MUD: Written by Jeff Nichols
ELLIS: I'm comin' out now. He crams the Walkie into his backpack and slings it over his shoulder. On his feet, he slides open a window at the foot of his bed. He's out in one motion.
MARY LEE: I just want to have a conversation. I just want to talk about it. Mary Lee sits down across from Senior, who doesn't look up from his paper. Her eyes narrow and she extends a finger toward him.
NECKBONE: What the shit man?
ELLIS: Suck it. Drive. The bike spits up mud as they peel out down the trail.
NECKBONE: How old is she?
ELLIS: A Junior.
NECKBONE: She's got nice titties. You talk to her?
ELLIS: Nah.
NECKBONE: You're gonna have to talk to her.
ELLIS: I know.
NECKBONE: Remind me when we get back to my house, Galen's got a book on that. Neckbone takes a spot up front in the small, flat-bottom boat. Ellis, a foot on the bank and one in the boat, launches them out into the water.
NECKBONE: Shit. Ellis raises up behind him. He takes a deep breath, nods.
NECKBONE (CONT'D): Your dad'd kill us he knew we went out there.
ELLIS: I'm not worried about my dad killin' us. THE MISSISSIPPI RIVER sprawls out in front of them. It's enormous. Their boat drifts at the mouth of the Arkansas, a small river by comparison. The Mississippi is a swirling mess of brown water and yellow foam six football fields wide.
NECKBONE: What if it sinks?
ELLIS: It ain't gonna sink. We gotta move if we're gonna make it back. Set your watch. We'll need a good fifteen minutes. Neckbone sets an alarm on his fat plastic wristwatch. They take their seats. Ellis cranks the motor. The small boat slowly chugs out onto the massive river.
NECKBONE: Galen thinks it's been here awhile. Thinks the last flood did it. Ellis follows as Neckbone winds through the trees. They stop at a deep creek that cuts across the island. Neckbone looks to his right, then his left. Sees what he's looking for.
NECKBONE (CONT'D): It's down there. A fallen tree trunk that straddles the creek. Ellis starts across.
NECKBONE (CONT'D): Hold it. Neckbone picks a large stone up off the ground.
NECKBONE (CONT'D): Look. Eight feet below the tree trunk, a nest of water moccasins curl around in the creek. Neckbone drops the stone on top of them. The snakes fan out.
NECKBONE (CONT'D): Little shits. Their mud-caked high-tops stomp across the trunk.
NECKBONE: So there it is.
ELLIS: Yeah, there it is. A 26 Foot Long BOAT sits nestled in the tree limbs above.
ELLIS: It came down from up there. Ellis points to higher limbs that have long been broken off. Neckbone walks to the back of the boat and hangs his head over. He finds a gaping hole of gutted wood.
NECKBONE: Motor broke off. Ellis isn't concerned with the motor. His eyes are locked on a covered cabin at the front of the boat.
ELLIS: Who else knows about this?
NECKBONE: Just me and Galen.
ELLIS: What's he think?
NECKBONE: He don't care about it.
ELLIS: Good. Ellis walks to the cabin. He pushes a vinyl door open.
ELLIS (CONT'D): 'Cause this boat's ours. Ellis has to duck down to go inside. Neckbone follows.
NECKBONE: It's got its own shitbox Neckbone slides back a portion of floral curtain and light streams in. He starts opening small closets and drawers. Ellis plops down on the rotted bench cushions.
ELLIS: This is perfect.
NECKBONE: Ho-Lee-Shit. Neckbone stares in an open drawer. He removes a stack of Playboys from the 1980's. Ellis smiles at him. He leans back and props his foot against the sink cabinet across from him. This is home. Neckbone opens the first Playboy. It disintegrates.
NECKBONE (CONT'D): Aw shit.
NECKBONE (CONT'D): Her tits are so small. Ellis reaches out and traces his finger in the groove of the cross marking. His eyes narrow as he re-surveys the cabin. On the table across from the toilet, he notices several empty cans of Beanie Weenie. In the booth, he sees a grocery bag. Ellis slowly raises up and goes over to it.
ELLIS: Neck.
NECKBONE: Look at that beave. You gotta see this. Ellis reaches out for the plastic bag. His fingers pull back the edges to reveal its contents: one can of unopened Beanie Weenie and half a loaf of BREAD.
ELLIS: Neck. Ellis reaches for the bread and gives it a squeeze. It's FRESH. Ellis freezes.
NECKBONE: What?
ELLIS: Someone's here.
NECKBONE: What? Ellis holds the loaf of bread up to Neckbone.
ELLIS: Someone's livin' here. Neckbone sees the grocery bag. His eyes widen. The boys are stone frozen. They listen for other sounds. Silence.
NECKBONE: Shit.
ELLIS: We gotta go. I can't be late.
NECKBONE: What are you doing? Ellis stares at a muddy boot print, cross in the heel, stamped in the center of their boat. He looks back to the treeline, then down the shore. He looks to his feet. The boys' shoe prints make chaotic patterns in the mud. Larger boot prints lead off down the shoreline.
NECKBONE (CONT'D): What is it?
(POINTING): I saw that same boot print up in the tree. It has a cross in the heel. Somebody's been in our boat.
NECKBONE: Shit. Let's go. Ellis begins following the boot prints around the shoreline.
NECKBONE (CONT'D): We gotta go if you wanna make it back.
(NO RESPONSE): Your dad's gonna kick our ass. It'll take twice as long goin' up river.
ELLIS: Hold it.
ELLIS (CONT'D): Up there. They stop. Neckbone takes the lead, walking up to the last boot print. They appear to vanish.
NECKBONE: Where the hell'd he go?
ELLIS: I don't know. Neckbone turns and freezes. A MAN has appeared in the distance behind Ellis. He stands between the boys and their boat. Ellis notices the look on Neckbone's face and turns. He flinches at the sight of the Man. MUD(38) stands near the boys' boat holding a pink, child's fishing pole with cartoon characters on it. He stares back at them and casts his fishing line into the water.
NECKBONE: Shit. You know that guy?
ELLIS: I've never seen him before.
NECKBONE: Shit. Mud, not taking his eyes off the boys, slowly reels in his line. His hair is a wild mop that leads to two weeks of growth on his face. With a cigarette clinched, he cracks a smile revealing a MISSING CANINE. He holds a hand in the air as if to wave.
NECKBONE (CONT'D): Shit. Neckbone slowly raises his hand up to wave back. Mud wears jeans and cowboy boots. His filthy button-up shirt looks like it hasn't left his body in years. He breaks his stare with the boys. Continuing to reel in his line, he walks over to them.
MUD: What you say? The boys don't respond. Mud walks past them and casts again.
MUD (CONT'D): Helluva thing.
ELLIS: What's that? Mud takes the cigarette from his mouth. A tattoo of a snake's head covers the top of his right hand. Two large cotton blossoms spill out of its jaws.
MUD: Boat in the trees. It's a helluva thing. Mud continues walking down the shoreline, reeling in his bait. The boys follow, tentatively.
ELLIS: You talkin' 'bout our boat?
MUD: I'm talkin' about my boat.
NECKBONE: We found it.
MUD: You found it with me livin' in it. Possession is nine tenths of the law.
NECKBONE: So?
MUD: Don't tell me you boys are from Mississippi?
ELLIS: No. They watch as he grabs the bait at the end of his line and spits on it. Then, tucking the pole under his arm, he ties a lock of his hair into a knot. He finishes this process with another cast.
ELLIS (CONT'D): You got crosses in your heels.
MUD: Nails. Shaped liked crosses.
ELLIS: What for?
MUD: Ward off evil spirits. A man I called an Indian but was Meskin said they were Seven-league boots worn by the seventh son of a seventh son. Told me it'd turn me into a werewolf but that's a lie. I don't know nothin' about that. Ellis, confused, won't take his eyes off the man.
MUD (CONT'D): They just good luck, but so far they ain't been workin' too well. (missing tooth smile) What's your name? Mud seems easy to smile, which softens his otherwise coarse look. His words spill from the mouth rapidly, without much thought for punctuation. Neckbone, emboldened by these facts, steps forward to answer.
NECKBONE: I'm Neckbone, he's Ellis, and mister you may be stone ass crazy but I know you're not the owner of that boat, not for nine tenths of nothin'.
MUD: Neckbone? That's a real handle son. Where ya'll from?
NECKBONE: What do you care where we're from?
ELLIS: DeWitt. Neckbone looks at Ellis, frustrated by his friend.
MUD: Arkansas boys. Ya'll had me worried for a second. Mud, pleased by this news, tucks the fishing pole under his arm and holds out a hand to shake. Ellis stares at the hand, unsure. He takes it reluctantly.
ELLIS: We s'posed to know you?
MUD: I doubt it. I grew up `round here, but I've been gone awhile.
ELLIS: Where around here?
MUD: Different places. Spent a lot of time back up near the White.
ELLIS: You know Shelly's Oxbow? Neckbone can't believe his friend is offering this up.
NECKBONE: Ellis. We gotta go.
MUD: I know it. Guy named Tom Blankenship used to live back in there.
ELLIS: He still does. His boat's cross from mine. Mud smiles.
MUD: Ain't that somethin'. In one motion, Mud flicks his cigarette away and grabs a pack out of his shirt pocket.
MUD (CONT'D): I like you two. You remind me of me. And seeing how you boys are from Arkansas and we know some people and sounds like we all from the same place I'd say we can make a deal here about somethin'.
ELLIS: A deal for what?
MUD: Food. Food for a boat.
NECKBONE: This guy's a bum Ellis. Come on. Mud's smile vanishes. Neckbone begins to walk off but begrudgingly stops when Ellis starts back in.
ELLIS: Why don't you go get your own food?
MUD: I would if I could, but I told somebody I'd meet `em here. So I'm stuck for now and what I got's runnin' low. Neckbone walks back and pulls Ellis by the arm.
NECKBONE: He's a bum Ellis, let's go. Mud lays a serious look down on Neckbone.
MUD: I'm no bum. I got money. You can call me a hobo `cause a hobo'll work for his living and you can call me homeless `cause that's true for now, but if you call me a bum again I'll have to teach you somethin' about respect that your daddy never did. Neckbone's confidence recedes. Ellis stands his ground.
ELLIS: When they show up, you'll leave? Mud begins fishing again.
MUD: Yeah.
ELLIS: And when you leave, that boat's ours?
MUD: Yeah. Ellis studies Mud's face, clothes, tattoos. He's thinking about it. Mud pauses from fishing to make eye contact.
MUD (CONT'D): I'm in a tight spot. I just need a little help.
ELLIS: We gotta go. With that, Ellis turns to leave. The boys walk briskly back to their boat. Ellis looks over his shoulder to see Mud making another cast with his fishing pole.
ELLIS: You get his name?!
NECKBONE: No! Ellis looks back. Mud has disappeared.
ELLIS: I'm sorry.
SENIOR: Where you been?
ELLIS: Neck and I got caught up helpin' Galen.
SENIOR: You're s'posed to be helpin' me. I had to load this myself.
ELLIS: I know, I'm sorry.
SENIOR: Just get in the back. Can't be later than we are.
ELLIS: Yessir. Senior flips up the tailgate. Ellis hops up the wheel well and into the bed of the truck. He steadies himself on one of the coolers as his father pulls away.
SENIOR: Let's go son. Ellis crumples the wrapper to his finished hotdog and jumps down from the bed of the truck.
ELLIS: It's s'posed to be ten.
SENIOR: It's ten you do your share. I loaded this mornin'. That makes it five. Ellis begrudgingly stuffs the five in his jeans.
ELLIS: You drop me at Neck's? Senior checks his pants pockets, feels around under his seat.
SENIOR: Hadn't you seen enougha him today?
ELLIS: Said he had something for me.
SENIOR: You see anymore Ding Dongs over there? Ellis checks under his seat and pulls out a half-empty box of Ding Dongs. Hands one over to his father who rips the package with his teeth.
ELLIS: What'd Momma wanna talk to you about?
SENIOR: What?
ELLIS: This mornin', what'd she wanna talk with you about?
SENIOR: You spy on me in my own house?
ELLIS: I wasn't spyin', just heard ya'll.
SENIOR: That's your mother's business. Senior makes this his answer, eats the Ding Dong.
ELLIS: I came by for that book.
NECKBONE: What book?
ELLIS: You said Galen had a book might help me out.
NECKBONE: Aw, yeah. We gotta give it a minute. You hear that music?
ELLIS: Yeah.
NECKBONE: That means he's doin' it. That's his doin' it song. Ellis takes a seat next to Neckbone. They listen to the song, slightly craning their necks to pick up on any other sounds. There are none.
ELLIS: You know who it is?
NECKBONE: Whoever's drivin' that white Dodge. Neckbone motions to a beat up Dodge Shadow in the yard.
ELLIS: You tell Galen 'bout this morning?
NECKBONE: Nah. You tell anybody?
ELLIS: No.
NECKBONE: That guy was crazy.
ELLIS: Maybe. I don't know. I think he just needed some help.
NECKBONE: Well he can swim his ass off that island and get some.
ELLIS: I think I'm gonna go back, take him some food.
NECKBONE: Why? Suddenly, the music from inside stops. Footsteps approaching and the trailer door flies open, almost hitting the boys. A GIRL(28) bursts out down the steps, straight to her car. She wears tight jean-shorts and is buttoning a white shirt. She stops and turns back to the boys.
GIRL: You're Neckbone right?
NECKBONE: Yeah.
GIRL: You look like a good enough kid. A word of advice, don't grow up to be like your shit heel uncle. The boys can't take their eyes off her cleavage revealed under her half-buttoned shirt. A necklace with three misshapen pearls hangs from her neck.
GIRL (CONT'D): Hey! She snaps the boys' attention up to her eyes.
GIRL (CONT'D): You hear me? You treat a woman like a princess. Got it?!
NECKBONE: Yeah. The trailer door opens and GALEN(36) emerges. He's a big, lumbering guy wearing a full-body wet suit pulled halfway down. A faded mermaid tattooed in the middle of his chest.
GALEN: Come on baby.
GALEN: That's uncalled for. He walks out to her. She heads for the Dodge Shadow.
(TRAILING OFF): A lot of people are comfortable with that kind of thing in the bedroom. Some people aren't. We know that about you now... Ellis sees one of the misshapen pearls at his feet. He picks it up and holds it to the sun.
NECKBONE: Pearls. Galen finds 'em in some of the mussel shells. Most of 'em ain't worth dick, but he likes to make necklaces for the girls. Come on, let's get that book. Neckbone walks into the trailer. Ellis stands up and retrieves the other two pearls out of the dirt. He crams them in his pocket and follows Neckbone inside.
NECKBONE: I don't want you goin' back out there by yourself. That river's scary enough with two people, and I don't trust that guy.
(FINDS SOMETHING): Here it is. He takes out a hardback book. The slip reads, "The Confident Confidant, communicating with the opposite sex."
NECKBONE (CONT'D): Galen said this really turned things around for him.
ELLIS: Thanks. Ellis flips delicately through the manual.
NECKBONE: You really going back out there?
ELLIS: I think it's the right thing to do.
NECKBONE: Well...I'll be over in the mornin' then. Galen, his thumbs tucked under his armpits, walks back to the trailer. He passes the boys and notices the self-help book in Ellis' hands.
(WITHOUT STOPPING): That's a good book. Be sure you do the worksheets in the back. Let's get some dinner Neck. Galen's gone inside.
NECKBONE: I'll call 'fore I come.
ELLIS: All right. Neckbone follows his uncle into the trailer. Ellis flips through his new book as he heads out of the trailer park.
ELLIS: You okay momma?
MARY LEE: Yes.
ELLIS: I'm all right. Mary Lee shuts off the water and lets the dish rest in the sink. She turns to Ellis.
MARY LEE: I'm gonna turn in.
ELLIS: Okay momma. Mary Lee slips past him and enters her bedroom. The door closes and Ellis is left alone in the den. It's quiet. He waits, looking at the door his mother just closed. Ellis walks into the kitchen and eases open a cabinet door. Checking over his shoulder, he zips his backpack open and fills it with CANNED FOOD.
ELLIS: What do you know about Tom Blankenship?
SENIOR: What? Senior doesn't turn around from his work at the sink.
ELLIS: Mr. Blankenship, what do you know about him?
SENIOR: Why?
ELLIS: I don't know. He looks lonely over there.
SENIOR: Some people move to this river to work on it, and some move here to be left alone. Senior makes his way to the ice machine and begins scooping ice into a large white cooler. Mary Lee emerges from the houseboat dressed for work, a secretarial job. Senior stops what he's doing to watch her. She walks over to Ellis.
MARY LEE: Let's sit down for dinner tonight okay? Will you make it home by seven?
ELLIS: Yes ma'am. She walks off the boat without a glance in Senior's direction. He trails her with his eyes before going back to digging in the ice. A29 Ellis looks back at Tom. The Walkie SQUAWKS out several A29 loud BEEPS. Ellis crams it in his backpack and runs off the boat.
ELLIS (CONT'D): Bye Dad. Senior holds a hand up but never looks up from his work.
NECKBONE: Where you think he's at?
ELLIS: I guess we should try the boat. They head for the treeline.
ELLIS: Looks like he made camp.
NECKBONE: (looking up to the boat) You think he's up there?
ELLIS: What're you doin'? Mud bounds down, stepping from limb to trunk to the ground. It's an agile move.
MUD: I try to never sleep in the same place twice. What you got there? Mud motions with his head to the backpack in Ellis' hand. Ellis holds it out to him.
ELLIS: I brought you some food. Mud looks at the backpack, but doesn't move.
ELLIS (CONT'D): Go on.
MUD: I owe you boys. Keeping the bag in hand, Mud takes a seat on the stump behind him. He pulls out a selection of canned food; pumpkin pie filling, evaporated milk, green beans. He grabs the beans.
MUD (CONT'D): I was gonna try runnin' a trot line today. See how far that'd get me. Mud removes a good-sized folding knife from his pocket and makes short order of the can lid. He tips the can up letting the beans fall into his mouth. Juice flows down his cheeks.
(A MOUTHFUL): I'd been rationin' what I had...green bean never tasted so good. The can is quickly emptied, juice running down Mud's chin. He straightens his back, choking down the final swallow. He sees the boys staring at him and catches himself.
MUD (CONT'D): I appreciate it.
ELLIS: Yeah.
NECKBONE: What you got that pistol for? Mud wipes off his chin, realizing the boys have been studying him. He closes the knife and tucks it in his pocket.
MUD: For protection. Mud gets up, heads for a duffel bag tucked under a nearby tree. The boys pivot, keeping Mud in front of them. Mud notices.
MUD (CONT'D): Ya'll don't have to be afraid of me. I have two ways to protect myself out here. This shirt, and this pistol.
MUD (CONT'D): There are fierce powers at work in the world boys. Good, evil, poor luck, best luck. Men have to take advantage where they can. Mud removes a spool of fishing line and a small plastic tackle box. He scoops up the duffel bag and heads into the woods.
MUD (CONT'D): Ya'll comin'? 32 Neckbone looks to Ellis, who walks after Mud into the 32 trees.
ELLIS: Who's this guy you're waitin' on?
MUD: I'm not waitin' for a guy. I'm waitin' on my girlfriend. Juniper.
NECKBONE: Is she hot?
MUD: She's beautiful.
(COUGHING): Bullshit.
MUD: Best lookin' girl I've ever seen. Hands down. Blonde hair. Long legs. She's like a dream you don't want to wake up from. She's got birds tattooed on her hands, here. Mud stops, points to the area on the top of his right hand, between his thumb and pointer finger.
MUD (CONT'D): Nightingales. Good luck birds.
NECKBONE: That a good luck snake?
MUD: No it is not.
NECKBONE: I hate snakes.
MUD: That's because God made them for us to fear.
MUD (CONT'D): It's a thing we knew to be afraid of before we even got into this world. 33 They emerge from the woods onto the downstream coast of 33 the island. It looks different than the other shoreline. A large swath of red clay angles sharply into the water.
MUD (CONT'D): Cherokee would wrap snake skin around their pregnant women's bellies. Induce labor, scare the child out. Here. He fetches a length of rope out of the duffel bag and tosses it to Neckbone.
MUD (CONT'D): Set that `round your bed at night. Snake won't cross braided rope.
NECKBONE: Thanks. (nods to Mud's tattoo) So what's that for then? Mud walks to a tree branch that has grown out over the bank, nearly resting in the water. He sets a trot line from it.
MUD: A reminder. Don't get bit. I was 10, swimmin' `bout a mile up from here. Me and Juniper. Sonofabitch swam right up under me, bit me just below the armpit. June got me out, got me to a clinic. Doctor said I shoulda been dead in twenty minutes. Took us an hour just to get back to town.
NECKBONE: What'd they do?
MUD: Gave me antivenom. For a cotton mouth. See here. Mud shows the tattoo on top of his right hand. He points out the two cotton blossoms bulging from the snake's mouth.
MUD (CONT'D): Problem with antivenom is they can only give it to you once. It's made from horse blood. Your body would reject it a second time. The cure ends up being more dangerous than the poison.
ELLIS: What happens if you get bit again?
MUD: I die, or just sweat it out. Neckbone, not buying it, looks at Ellis and taps his watch.
ELLIS: We gotta go help Neck's uncle.
MUD: All right.
ELLIS: You never said your name.
MUD: Mud. You can call me Mud.
ELLIS: Mud?
NECKBONE: Here you go, Mud. I think you need that worse than I do.
(SMILING): I'll be all right. The boys disappear back into the trees.
GALEN: They look bright enough. The owner of the shop, an ELECTRICIAN(62), holds up a metal bar with the lamps affixed by bolts at either end.
ELECTRICIAN: Should be. I rigged DC power up through marine batteries. Makes it portable. Gave you a rigging bar to set on your shoulder.
GALEN: So you really think these'll work under water?
ELECTRICIAN: In theory.
NECKBONE: You start datin' I bet her dad'll give you a free pick-up truck.
ELLIS: I don't care about that. Ellis watches as the same Skinny Kid from before tries to flirt with her. She's not having it. He pops her bra strap before landing the final straw, a smack on her ass. She turns and swats at him. Seeing this, Ellis is on his feet and crossing the street.
NECKBONE: What's goin' on? Ellis doesn't turn back. Neckbone reluctantly sets the carburetor down and follows.
MAY PEARL: Stop it! She shoves the Skinny Kid, but he continues laughing.
OLDER KID: Holy shit Pryor, get off your ass. Pryor collects himself and gets off the ground. Ego bruised, he walks off mumbling. The Older Kids keep riding him. May Pearl sizes up Ellis.
MAY PEARL: You didn't have to do that.
ELLIS: He was messin' with you.
MAY PEARL: Do I know you?
ELLIS: I'm Ellis. That's Neck. Neckbone waves by wagging a finger in the air.
ELLIS (CONT'D): We went to Junior High with you, before you went to High School.
MAY PEARL: How old are you?
ELLIS: Fourteen.
MAY PEARL: Fourteen? You know you just punched a Senior?
ELLIS: So?
MAY PEARL: You think you're pretty tough. Ellis shrugs, not wanting to deny it.
ELLIS: I know.
MAY PEARL: What else do you know?
ELLIS: Nothin'. She smiles.
NECKBONE: Son of a bitch...Ellis? Ellis breaks away from his conversation with May Pearl.
ELLIS: What?
NECKBONE: Look. Neckbone nods to a cheap motel called the EXECUTIVE INN located on the opposite side of the Piggly Wiggly parking lot. JUNIPER(35), a truly beautiful woman squeezed into tight jeans and a low cut top, makes her way from the motel parking lot to the Piggly Wiggly. She passes in front of the cluster of Teenagers. All of the boys have taken note. Some cat calls from the crowd. Juniper, without facing the Teenagers, gives them the finger.
NECKBONE (CONT'D): You ever seen that girl before?
ELLIS: No. Did you see her hands?
MAY PEARL: Hello? Ellis catches himself and turns back to May Pearl.
ELLIS: Sorry. We know a guy we think might know that girl.
MAY PEARL: Oh. A GIRLFRIEND(17) of May Pearl's calls out to her.
GIRLFRIEND: May Pearl! Let's go!
MAY PEARL: Okay!
ELLIS: I guess I'll see you.
MAY PEARL: If you can find my phone number, you should call it.
ELLIS: I can find it. May Pearl walks over to her friend. Ellis watches her go, but then remembers Juniper. He turns to Neckbone.
ELLIS (CONT'D): Where'd she go?
NECKBONE: Into the Piggly Wiggly. She came from the motel.
ELLIS: I'm gonna go see if it's her.
NECKBONE: I gotta go check on Galen. We'll pick you up out front. Ellis heads for the Piggly Wiggly. Neckbone calls after him.
NECKBONE (CONT'D): What'd she say?
ELLIS: Wants me to call her.
NECKBONE: Shit.
NECKBONE: Was it her?
ELLIS: It's her. I saw the tattoos. He wasn't lyin'.
(LOOKING BACK): No he wasn't.
ELLIS: What you hidin' for?
SENIOR: I ain't hidin'. He notices Senior tip back a pint of liquor and set it at his feet. Ellis opens the screen door leading inside.
SENIOR (CONT'D): Come over here. Ellis lets the door fall shut and skulks over to a beam that supports the carport. He leans into it.
SENIOR (CONT'D): You know I love you?
ELLIS: Yessir. I know.
SENIOR: I work you hard 'cause life is work. You know that?
ELLIS: Yessir.
SENIOR: Your Mamma's been talkin' 'bout movin' in town.
ELLIS: What's that mean?
SENIOR: She seems set on it. Wants to separate. She may ask me for a divorce. This hits Ellis like a ton of bricks. He rights himself.
ELLIS: What's that mean for me?
SENIOR: It means enjoy the river son. Enjoy it while you live on it, 'cause this way a life isn't long for this world. Game and fish's 'bout made certain of that.
ELLIS: But you and me can still live out here. Game and fish can't take your boat. Not while you're still in it.
SENIOR: The houseboat's in your mother's name. Her daddy give it to her not me. If she wants to leave it, Game and Fish has ever' right to take this boat apart board by board.
ELLIS: But that ain't right. You work outta here. We got the ice machine, the traps. What are we supposed to do?
SENIOR: Like I said, this is your mother's business.
ELLIS: I ain't no townie. I ain't livin' like that. Senior takes a slow pull off the bottle. Ellis' mind races.
SENIOR: I've let you down. A man should be in charge of his own affairs, but I haven't worked it like that.
ELLIS: But ya'll are married. Ya'll are s'posed to love each other.
SENIOR: I don't know about that anymore.
SENIOR (CONT'D): Ellis? He stops and turns back to his father. Senior tries to express a sentiment he doesn't have the words for. Ellis continues inside.
MARY LEE: You're late. Ellis doesn't speak, he doesn't look at her. He enters his room and shuts the door. He's heard the news and she knows it. Mary Lee's face drops.
MUD: Ellis? Ellis, still frozen, slowly turns to him. Mud huffs out a laugh and drops the pistol to his side.
MUD (CONT'D): What're you doin' out here? Ellis slowly raises the backpack in his hand.
ELLIS: I got you some Beanie Weenie. Mud tucks the pistol into his jeans and accepts the backpack.
MUD: I appreciate that, but I didn't expect you out here at night. Mud takes a seat on the log and transfers the cans into his own duffel bag. He holds up a can of the Beanie Weenie.
MUD (CONT'D): Look at that. You really know how to do somebody right. I didn't wanna say anything before, but it's hard to make a meal out of pumpkin pie filling.
ELLIS: That's all my mom had.
MUD: I'm not complainin'.
ELLIS: Can I get one of those?
MUD: They're yours to begin with. Ellis sits as Mud hands him a can. They eat.
ELLIS: I missed my dinner.
MUD: That's good right?
(MOUTH FULL): You been out here too long. Mud laughs. Finishing the can, he takes a half-smoked cigarette from his shirt pocket. He pulls a twig from the fire for a light.
ELLIS (CONT'D): The girl you're waitin' on, she's your girlfriend?
MUD: Juniper. Yeah.
ELLIS: How'd you meet her?
MUD: We grew up together.
ELLIS: Do you love her?
MUD: I do. The first time I saw her was on this river. Just up from here. She saved my life.
ELLIS: From the snake bite.
MUD: That's right. I was younger than you are now, but when I came to in the hospital and she was there, it was like the world split open, came back together new. Everything changed. I knew from then on I'd do anything for her.
ELLIS: Why aren't ya'll married?
MUD: I've asked. Several times. Marriage just doesn't work for some people. Ellis thinks on this.
ELLIS: My dad says my parents may be gettin' a divorce.
MUD: I'm sorry to hear that.
ELLIS: If it happens, and my mom moves us off the river, they say the government can come take our boat away.
MUD: Who says that?
ELLIS: Everybody. They passed a law so you can't sell your boat. Can't rent it. If the owner leaves, they got you. Game and Fish want `em off the river.
MUD: I've never been one to trust the government on matters of personal property, but if your parents love each other, there's always a chance.
MUD (CONT'D): People just sometimes forget why they fell in love in the first place. Ellis watches Mud toke the cigarette nub. He's really getting all he can from it.
ELLIS: I saw Juniper today.
MUD: What?
ELLIS: I didn't talk to her, but she had the birds tattooed on her hand like you said. You were right. She's pretty. Mud stands, surprised by the news. He walks to the other side of the fire so his back is to the boy.
MUD: Where'd you see her?
ELLIS: At the Piggly Wiggly. I think she's stayin' at a motel by there. The Executive Inn. Mud looks at Ellis through the fire. He takes a drag and smiles at the boy. The hole from his missing tooth shows.
MUD: That's good news. Real good news. Mud paces, slowly. He's thinking.
ELLIS: Does she know you're out here?
MUD: No. We picked another place to meet. Couple days from now. Mud walks back to the log and sits.
ELLIS: You wanna go tonight? I can give you a ride up river. Mud looks at Ellis, nodding.
MUD: Tomorrow. I'll go tomorrow.
ELLIS: You need me to come get you?
MUD: Naw. I can manage. Hell I got out here didn't I? Ellis smiles. They sit in silence. Ellis stares up at the boat hanging over them, its peeling hull lit by the firelight. Mud pinches the ash from the end of his cigarette, places the stub back in his shirt pocket. Noticing Ellis, Mud tilts his head back to take in the boat.
MUD (CONT'D): It's a helluva thing. Mud pauses, his mind working on something.
MUD (CONT'D): Helluva thing. The two sit by the campfire staring up at the suspended boat.
MARY LEE: Time to get up. She begins picking clothes off the floor. Ellis, in bed, raises up on his elbows. He's tired from a late night.
ELLIS: It's Saturday.
MARY LEE: I'm going to Wal-Mart. I need you to come with me.
(MOANING): Mom.
MARY LEE: Come on. She pulls the covers off of him.
MARY LEE: Ellis I know what your father told you last night. That's not what I wanted. I wanted to sit you down and talk about it.
ELLIS: What do you wanna talk about? You want to leave and that means they can tear up our house.
MARY LEE: I've spent my whole life on that boat. I don't think it's too much to ask for your... Mary Lee is interrupted by a line of traffic backed up in front of her. She slows to a stop.
TROOPER: Can you open the trunk please ma'am?
MARY LEE: Of course.
TROOPER: Have you picked up or seen any hitchhikers today ma'am?
MARY LEE: No sir. The Trooper produces a flier with a color photo on it.
TROOPER: Have you seen this man?
MARY LEE: No sir. The Trooper leans over and holds the paper out to Ellis.
TROOPER: Son, have you seen this man? Ellis looks at the photo. It's of Mud. He looks exactly the same as he did last night, down to the shirt. In the photo, Mud's smiling, revealing his missing tooth.
ELLIS: No.
TROOPER: We've had reports that he's in this area. If you see him, call 9-1-1 immediately.
MARY LEE: We will officer. The Trooper pulls his head from the window.
ELLIS: What'd he do?! The Trooper bends back down and looks at Ellis.
(MORE CALM): What'd he do?
TROOPER: Move along please. Mary Lee pulls forward and speeds back up on the interstate.
MARY LEE: My lord. (rolls up her window)
(NO ANSWER): Please don't tell your father this, but I've been looking at a couple of places. I know it would be a big adjustment for you, but it might end up being something you like. You know living on the river isn't exactly everyone's idea of the good life. Ellis? He looks at her.
ELLIS: (into the Walkie) Neck! Neck, pick up!
NECKBONE: So what's the big deal?
ELLIS: My mom and I were headed to Wal- Mart on 165. There was a roadblock with state troopers. They searched our car and showed us a picture of Mud. They're lookin' for him.
NECKBONE: I knew it! I told you that crazy sonofabitch was trouble. Did they say what he did?
ELLIS: No.
NECKBONE: So'd you tell `em where he is?
ELLIS: No. That's why I called you. We gotta warn him.
NECKBONE: What?
ELLIS: He's goin' to get Juniper today. I went out there last night and told him where we saw her. He needs to know people are lookin' for him.
NECKBONE: You think he doesn't know that already? Jesus Ellis, why do you think he's on that island? You don't even know what he's wanted for. Ellis climbs in the boat and Neckbone yanks his shoulder.
NECKBONE (CONT'D): Ellis! I'm serious. We don't know who this guy is.
ELLIS: He loves her Neck. He told me.
NECKBONE: I don't give a shit who he loves. Ellis starts the motor and waits for his friend.
ELLIS: He's not dangerous. Reluctantly, Neckbone throws his leg into the boat.
NECKBONE: It sounds like a shitload of state troopers think different.
NECKBONE: No tellin' where the hell he's been sleepin'.
ELLIS: He may already be gone.
MUD (CONT'D): Up here! Mud drops them a rope with knots tied in it. Ellis starts inching his way up. Neckbone begrudgingly follows.
ELLIS: What are you doin'?
MUD: I'm gonna have to go back on our deal for the boat. I don't feel good about it, but I don't see any other way outta what I'm into. Neckbone makes his way on board. Mud has pulled a panel off the steering column. Exposed wires dangle.
ELLIS: So you know about the state troopers? He looks up from his notebook.
MUD: What state troopers?
NECKBONE: The ones spreadin' your picture all over the place. Stoppin' cars on 165 searchin' for your ass. Mud factors this in and then goes back to writing.
MUD: I didn't know about that, but it doesn't surprise me. There plenty of folks lookin' for me right now.
ELLIS: Why?
MUD: I shot a man. Killed him.
MUD (CONT'D): I'm sorry I didn't tell ya'll sooner, but I was hopin' to be gone before anything came of it. Didn't want you involved. Mud turns to really face them for the first time.
MUD (CONT'D): Ya'll have been real good to me. You're the only friends I got out here. If the state troopers have 165 blocked, they'll have others blocked too. I won't get anywhere in a car. I want to try takin' this boat down, see if we can get it in the water. Ellis and Neckbone stand their ground. They don't say anything. Mud walks back to the steering column. He drops to his knees and fiddles with the wires.
MUD (CONT'D): With a boat like this I can make it to the gulf in two days. I could get anywhere from there. But I'd need a boat at least this big to make it on open water. It's got no title, no owner, nobody lookin' for it. It's my best shot.
NECKBONE: Who'd you kill?
MUD: It was a bad piece of business. Ya'll don't need to hear about it.
ELLIS: I need to hear about it. Mud sits up. He looks at Ellis, deciding how much to tell.
MUD: Juniper made a mistake. She hooked up with a guy. He was no good. His name was Hutchins. Family owns a chain of restaurants down in Texas.
ELLIS: Where were you?
MUD: I was around, but me and Juniper were on the outs. She met this Hutchins, he sold her on some lies. Got her pregnant. That's when he started showin' who he really was. He dropped June down a flight of stairs after whoopin' her half to death. She lost the baby. He made it so the doctors think she can't have children anymore. There're things you can get away with in this world and things you can't. I tracked him down at a motel just outside of San Antonio. He was there with another woman. That's where it happened. Mud's done with his story. He goes back to the wiring.
MUD (CONT'D): I understand if you can't help me anymore, but I need this boat. And I need to get it in the water fast. After a moment, he sits up and wipes sweat from his forehead.
MUD (CONT'D): I've made a list. Things we'll need. What do ya'll think? Ellis takes time to consider everything. He looks at Neckbone, who has a disgruntled look on his face.
ELLIS: You did it for her? To protect her?
MUD: Yeah. Ellis nods. Mud looks over at Neckbone, who still has the disgruntled look on his face.
MUD (CONT'D): What do you think?
NECKBONE: I think you want us to run around, stickin' our necks out, gettin' everything you need, just so you can take our boat.
MUD: That's about it. Mud removes a cigarette butt and sparks it with a lighter.
NECKBONE: What do we get out of it?
MUD: What do you want? Neckbone looks to Ellis, judging his bargaining position.
NECKBONE: What about that pistol? Mud eyes the boy, pulling on the nub of cigarette.
MUD: I only got two things out here worth anything. This shirt... Mud pulls the pistol from the back of his jeans. Neckbone tenses, but relaxes when Mud splays it out on an open palm.
MUD (CONT'D): And this pistol. I can't give you the shirt `cause I need it for protection, but if you help me get this boat in the water, the pistol's yours. Neckbone squinches his face in thought, sizing up this trade.
NECKBONE: What kind is it?
MUD: A forty five.
NECKBONE: I guess we could work a deal like that. Neckbone steps forward to grab the pistol, but Mud puts it back in his jeans.
MUD: We get this thing floatin' first. Neckbone looks over at Ellis, who shrugs.
NECKBONE: All right then.
MUD: Ya'll scrounge what you can off this list, but if we're gonna get this done right we'll need more help. Can you fetch Tom for me?
ELLIS: Tom Blankenship? Mud has smoked down to the filter. He crushes the butt into his palm and puts it back in his shirt pocket.
MUD: I was hopin' to let that old assassin stay put, but we'll need him to get things ya'll can't. Can you find him?
ELLIS: I know where he lives, but I've never spoke to him.
MUD: Just tell him my name. He'll know you're serious. Ellis folds the list up. He and Neckbone start down the rope as Mud goes back to the wiring.
MUD (CONT'D): Boys?
(THEY PAUSE): Thanks. Ellis nods.
NECKBONE: Don't lose my pistol. They continue down the rope. Mud continues his work.
ELLIS: You comin'?
NECKBONE: I'll watch the boat. Ellis scans the woods that populate the patch of land wedged between the river and this short tributary.
NECKBONE (CONT'D): Ellis?
ELLIS: What?
NECKBONE: Be careful. Galen always said that old man's crazy. Neckbone keeps his seat as Ellis darts into the woods
TOM (CONT'D): You deaf boy? I said why're you huntin' me?
ELLIS: I ain't huntin you.
TOM: What's your business here?
ELLIS: I came to find you. I got a message for you.
TOM: You're Senior's boy.
ELLIS: Yessir.
TOM: What you got to say he can't tell me himself? Tom, rusty on pleasantries, brushes past Ellis as he heads inside the boat.
ELLIS: It ain't from him. Ellis, not wanting to follow further, shouts from the planks.
TOM: Mud sent you.
ELLIS: Yessir.
TOM: What do you know about it?
ELLIS: He asked me to come get you. Tom straightens his back. He looks into the woods, searching for something he may have missed.
TOM: Your daddy know this?
ELLIS: No sir. Mud needs your help. Tom's mind churns on a series of facts unknown to the boy.
TOM: Where is he?
ELLIS: There he is. Tom spits onto the muddy bank and makes his way toward Mud. Ellis and Neckbone stay by the boat and watch.
TOM: Mud.
MUD: Sir. They stare at each other for a long moment. Neither one flinching.
NECKBONE: You think that's his dad?
ELLIS: I don't know.
TOM: Where is she?
MUD: In town. Got here yesterday. Tom lowers his head. Frustrated.
TOM: Why you out here like this?
NECKBONE: They don't look like family. Ellis watches Mud as he gestures and speaks. He seems different. Younger. Mud stops talking. Tom scratches a hand through his white crew cut. He begins pointing a finger at Mud. His face is flushed and the sound of his voice carries to the boys, though still unintelligible.
NECKBONE (CONT'D): He's really givin' it to him.
TOM: You've spent your whole life followin' that girl! She's run you halfway cross the country and back, and for what? For this, left out on an island beggin' for help. A murderer. A thief.
MUD: I ain't no thief.
TOM: What would you call it then? Don't even mention draggin' those boys into this. Do you have any idea what you're doin'? Waits for a response, but Mud gives none.
TOM (CONT'D): I'm ashamed of you. Mud looks up at him.
TOM (CONT'D): Don't expect help from me. There's none to be given.
TOM (CONT'D): I'm ready. Tom shoves the boat back into the water. Neckbone helps him. Ellis looks back at Mud, who still hasn't moved from his stump. He goes to him. Tom sees this and stops pushing.
(TO HIMSELF): Dammit.
ELLIS: You all right? Mud raises his head.
MUD: Looks like we're on our own. He stands and takes a folded piece of paper from his shirt.
MUD (CONT'D): I didn't want you bein' the one to do this, but I can't see a way around it. I need to get this letter to Juniper. Could you take it to her for me?
ELLIS: Yeah.
MUD: You have to be careful. You can't just walk up and knock on her door, you hear me? You have to watch yourself.
ELLIS: I can handle it. Ellis steps forward and Mud hands over the note. Ellis takes it and walks back to the others.
NECKBONE: You Mud's daddy?
TOM: Mud didn't have no daddy. No mother I ever knew of. He was livin' in the woods when I met him. Younger than you are now. Tom doesn't offer anymore. Neckbone thinks on his answer. Ellis kills the engine near the mouth of Shelly's Oxbow. Tom jumps down into the knee deep river and wades onto shore. He turns back to the boys.
TOM (CONT'D): Ya'll need to watch yourselves. Don't go gettin' into something you don't have any business in. Mud's into something you don't want any part of. I suggest you forget about him. Ellis and Neckbone don't respond. Tom, with a final admonishing look, disappears into the woods. Ellis cranks the motor and points the boat up river.
ELLIS: What do you think?
NECKBONE: He loves her. You can tell that much. You gonna take it to her?
ELLIS: I told him I would. Neckbone thinks about this seriously, shakes his head.
NECKBONE: I don't know. Could be a lot of trouble.
ELLIS: You still got that trailer you made for your bike?
ELLIS: I say we start at the top, work our way down.
NECKBONE: All right. They each grab an end of the cooler and carry it across the lot toward a flight of stairs.
BLACK MAN: What you want?
ELLIS: We're sellin' fish. You wanna buy some?
BLACK MAN: Fish? He looks at the two boys like they are insane.
CARVER (CONT'D): You hear me bitch? Tell me another lie. Ellis rushes Carver with his shoulder as if he were breaking down a door. Carver is knocked off balance. He trips over the edge of the bed and crashes into the motel room wall. Carver, slightly stunned, gets to his feet and in two broad steps lands a man-sized punch across Ellis' face. It's hard. Ellis melts. He grabs the boy up by the scruff of his shirt.
CARVER (CONT'D): Who are you!? Who the hell are you!? Did he send you!? Carver removes a piece of paper from his pocket. It's a photo copied picture of Mud, different than the State Trooper's. Carver crams the photo in the boy's face.
CARVER (CONT'D): You know this man!? Look at him! Do you know him!? Blood trickles from a cut under Ellis' eye. He stutters under the shaking force of Carver's hands.
ELLIS: I don't...I...
NECKBONE (CONT'D): We're just selling fish! Carver sizes things up. It takes a moment, but he settles. He snorts out a laugh and drops Ellis on the ground. Carver turns his attention back to Juniper, who is huddled up in the corner of the motel. Carver walks over to her. Opening a good-sized knife, he gets down in her face and holds the blade uncomfortably close to her cheek.
CARVER: I know you know where he is. And I swear to God I'll cut through every one a you to find him. She flinches. Standing, Carver folds up his knife.
CARVER (CONT'D): We know you came here for him, and we know he's too stupid to leave you behind. So when he pops his head out of whatever shithole he's staying in, I'll be there. You tell him that. Carver turns, stepping over Ellis on his way out.
CARVER (CONT'D): And you need to mind your business boy. Neckbone moves from the doorway to let him pass. Carver is gone. Neckbone shuts the door and fastens the security latch. He kneels down to check on his friend.
NECKBONE: You all right?
ELLIS: Yeah.
NECKBONE: He popped your eye. Ellis holds the back of his hand up to his eye which has begun to swell. The cut trickles blood over his cheekbone. Juniper moves to the sink. Ellis sits up, staring at her back.
JUNIPER: Thank you. He stares back at her. He can't take his eyes off her. She holds the iced towel to his cheek. He doesn't even flinch.
JUNIPER (CONT'D): I'm so sorry. Tears form and run down her cheeks.
JUNIPER (CONT'D): Here. She takes his hand and places it against the towel. She gets to her feet and pulls a pocket book from a bag in the corner.
JUNIPER (CONT'D): How much is your fish? I'll buy the cooler full. Ellis motions Neckbone to the cooler. Neckbone goes over and crams his hand into the ice. He removes a Ziplock bag containing the note that Mud sent. Neckbone hands it to Ellis. Taking the note, he sets his ice down and walks over to Juniper.
ELLIS: Mud sent us to give this to you. Juniper is stunned. She looks at the bag, then at the boys.
JUNIPER: You've met Mud? Ellis nods. Neckbone speaks up from the back.
NECKBONE: Yeah we met him. Juniper takes the bag. She removes the letter and takes a seat on the edge of the bed to read it. Ellis watches her eyes move along the paper. She smiles, which makes Ellis smile. After a moment, she folds it up.
JUNIPER: He tells me to hold tight.
NECKBONE: Yeah, we read it. Juniper raises her eyebrows at Neckbone.
JUNIPER: Well do you know how long `hold tight' is?
ELLIS: I think it's a couple days. He wants to get a boat for ya'll.
JUNIPER: God. Juniper shakes her head and goes to the sink. She pulls a lighter from her jeans pocket and torches Mud's note.
JUNIPER (CONT'D): Tell him I'll wait. Running water over the ashes, she turns back to them.
JUNIPER (CONT'D): But I don't want ya'll involved. Tell him what I said and make that it. I don't want you gettin' in any trouble.
ELLIS: We won't.
JUNIPER: What do you call that? She motions to his swelling eye. Ellis shrugs.
ELLIS: We'll be all right. Keep your door locked. We'll be in touch. Ellis heads to the door as Neckbone gathers up the cooler.
JUNIPER: Wait. Ellis turns back.
JUNIPER (CONT'D): What's your name?
ELLIS: I'm Ellis. That's Neckbone.
JUNIPER: Thank you Ellis. Ellis stares at her, infatuated.
NECKBONE: We gotta go. Ellis turns and grabs one end of the cooler. Neckbone slaps back the security latch and opens the door with his free hand. They walk out.
ELLIS: Lock the door. She smiles. The door slams shut. The room number, 212, stares Ellis in the face. He takes a deep breath.
NECKBONE: Let's go hard on. He and Ellis wrangle the cooler down the steps. The sun set while they were inside. A blue hue hangs over everything.
ELLIS: Hello? Is May Pearl there?...This is Ellis...Hey, it's Ellis. Hey... What?...In the phone book... from his car commercials...I think they're all right...Tomorrow? Yeah, I can meet you... Okay. Bye. Ellis hangs up the phone. With the peas pressed firmly against his face, he smirks.
NECKBONE: We've got more, but no motor.
MUD: This'll work for now. You get her my note?
ELLIS: Yeah. Ellis turns and Mud sees his black eye for the first time.
MUD: Where'd you get that from?
ELLIS: We came up on Juniper's room. A guy was in there beatin' up on her. Mud's face turns dark.
NECKBONE: Ellis rushed him. Got smacked for it.
MUD: What'd he look like?
ELLIS: I don't know. Tall. Looked like a cowboy.
MUD: Dark hair?
ELLIS: Yeah.
MUD (CONT'D): Thanks for lookin' after her. Ellis nods. Mud picks up the rope.
MUD (CONT'D): His name's Carver. Brother of the man I shot. If he's here, then more are comin'.
NECKBONE: More what? Mud gathers the supplies and heads to the treeline. The boys, with their hands full, follow him.
MUD: Bounty hunters. Carver's rotten, but his daddy's the one to be scared of. He'll spend all the money he has to see me dead. If it was up to me I'd put the whole family down same as the other. Not a decent man between `em. Mud stops and turns to lay a serious look on them.
MUD (CONT'D): Ya'll listen to me now. If you see that old man, don't get near him. He's the triple six real deal scratch you hear me? Mud waits for nods from them both.
MUD (CONT'D): All right.
HELPER: What you waitin' for?
GALEN: Shut up. After a moment, Galen cranks the motor and speeds away.
MUD: Ellis, can you climb up that trunk and get these hung?
ELLIS: Yeah.
MUD: Take a foot of line and tie `em off with a bowline knot. You know it?
ELLIS: I'm not stupid. Ellis takes the pulley and scales the trunk without hesitation. Mud tosses his pocket knife to Neckbone.
MUD: Neck, start cuttin' line. Three fifteen foot sections. Count a foot long as your arm. Mud begins threading the pulleys with rope. As Neckbone cuts rope, he sees the pistol stuck in the back of Mud's pants.
NECKBONE: What's so special `bout that shirt you'd lose your pistol for it?
MUD: It's got a wolf's eye sewn in the sleeve. More protection than a bullet ever gave. Tom swears by it.
NECKBONE: He said he wasn't your daddy.
MUD: Tom's the closest thing I ever knew to a father.
NECKBONE: I never met my parents.
MUD: It's hard not knowin' the ones you came from.
NECKBONE: My uncle Galen tells me things about `em. He's the one that takes care of me.
MUD: Tom did that for me.
ELLIS: What'd you mean when you called Tom an assassin?
MUD: Tom's had lives you'd never know about. Grew up up North. Went to Yale. For a long time he was a paid killer for the C.I.A. Lived in Cuba in `63. He's probably killed more people than you've met.
(TO NECKBONE): Hand me that line. Neckbone tosses him an end of rope, looks to Ellis. Ellis gives a shrug before heading back up the trunk.
NECKBONE: Well if you're gonna do it do it! Mud takes a deep breath and yanks the cord. Angled on one of the main branches holding up the boat, Mud begins cutting. Ellis and Neckbone step further and further back as they watch the chainsaw work through the thick limb. Suddenly, the chainsaw stops. A deep CRACKING sound. The huge branch SNAPS, tumbling off lower limbs before crashing to the ground. Mud holds onto the trunk for dear life. The branch now rests on the ground, SILENCE. The ropes and pulleys hang taught, squeaking from the weight of the boat. Mud slowly lifts his head up. He smiles at what he sees. The rigging has held.
MUD: One down! Neckbone and Ellis watch as Mud scampers around the trunk to the next branch. The chainsaw cranks back on.
NECKBONE: This shit is crazy.
AFTERNOON: Ellis looks out the car window at HIGH SCHOOL KIDS that have gathered in the Piggly Wiggly parking lot. His hair is slicked to one side, and he's wearing a collared shirt.
MARY LEE: You look nice.
ELLIS: Thanks.
MARY LEE: What time are you gonna be home? Ellis shrugs. She looks at him as the car radio rambles.
ELLIS: You make up your mind?
MARY LEE: About moving in town?
ELLIS: About leavin' dad. Mary Lee thinks about how to answer, shuts off the radio.
MARY LEE: You can't make other people change Ellis. If I'm unhappy then I'll have to be the one to change something. Ellis chews on the inside of his cheek and watches her avoid eye contact. He shoulders his way out of the car. Mary Lee takes a moment before driving off. As Mary Lee pulls away, Ellis takes in the scene.
ELLIS: Not really. Ellis takes a sip from the Sonic cup. His face puckers.
MAY PEARL: But you're not scared if you have to.
ELLIS: I guess. You got a lot of friends.
MAY PEARL: They're all right. I don't know all of `em.
ELLIS: I bet you're pretty popular.
MAY PEARL: Why do you say that?
ELLIS: I don't know. `Cause you're nice to people.
MAY PEARL: How do you know that?
ELLIS: You're nice to me.
MAY PEARL: But I like you. Ellis digs into his jeans pocket.
ELLIS: I got this for you. He removes a bracelet made from the pearls he collected off Galen's porch. May Pearl takes it, begins putting it on.
MAY PEARL: A bracelet?
ELLIS: Neckbone's uncle caught the pearls. I thought with your name and everything...
MAY PEARL: Thank you. She leans over, hugging him with a kiss on the cheek. She stays close.
ELLIS: You wanna be my girlfriend? She smiles, then kisses him.
TOM: You want some coffee? Tom disappears inside.
ELLIS: I don't drink coffee. Ellis waits for a moment, but realizes this is Tom's way of inviting him inside. He enters.
TOM: You been seein' Mud?
ELLIS: No.
TOM: You don't have to lie to me boy. He hands Ellis a cup of coffee with a cartoon image of a dog on it. It reads, "I'm a real bitch in the morning!" Tom sits in a LazyBoy that he gently rocks in.
TOM (CONT'D): I've seen you runnin' around. Takin' things. He all right?
ELLIS: He's okay.
TOM: He get that boat down? Ellis nods. There is an awkward moment.
ELLIS: He called you an assassin. Tom snorts out a laugh, sips his coffee.
ELLIS (CONT'D): Is it true?
TOM: How long have you known Mud?
ELLIS: Few days.
TOM: Well that's long enough to know he's full of shit.
ELLIS: So it's not true.
TOM: I was a sharpshooter in the army. In Mud's world, that makes me an assassin. Not exactly true, right?
ELLIS: Yeah I guess. Tom notices the boy's disappointment.
TOM: You think he's a bad ass don't you?
ELLIS: I don't know.
TOM: You know why he's stuck out on that island?
ELLIS: Yeah.
(HESITATES): He shot somebody.
TOM: He tell you why he shot that man?
ELLIS: Because he hurt Juniper.
TOM: Right. The real reason Mud's in the trouble he's got is because of her. He's been in love with that girl since he was your age. They used to run all around here and it was the same back then. He'd follow that girl wherever she led him. Problem is she don't care about nobody but herself. I've told him as much. She'd bed down with the meanest snake she could find, then when things went bad she'd go runnin' to Mud. Mud would take her back, then go find whatever unlucky sonofabitch last put a hand on her and beat `em `til they knew to never touch her again. And this time I guess he thought a beating wasn't good enough. Had to shoot that fella. I don't know for sure, but I'd put money on Juniper knowin' he'd do it. And I have a suspicion she might of even told him to. Either way, those two are set for failure. Only chance Mud has is to cut her loose. Cause I'll tell you what, Mud's no bad ass. He's runnin' scared. Ellis can't look Tom in the eye, he's offended by the old man's remarks. Ellis sets the coffee cup on the desk.
ELLIS: I gotta go. Ellis heads for the door, but stops short.
ELLIS (CONT'D): You're wrong about Juniper. They love each other and they're gonna make it. If you weren't a wore out old man you'd know it was true. Tom eyes the boy, taking a sip from his cup. He nods a goodbye to Ellis who is already out the door.
ELLIS: I got more stuff.
MUD: You find a motor?
ELLIS: Not yet. (points to the ash) What's that?
MUD: I made a bonfire. Mud enters the woods. Ellis follows.
ELLIS: Why?
MUD: Bonfire's an all purpose cure all for bad luck. I don't know where this boat's been or what kind of person had it before me. For all I know it could have some serious bad business left on it. We got too much ridin' on this thing to leave to chance. Where's Neckbone?
ELLIS: Helpin' his uncle with a dive.
ELLIS: Tom called me over to his place this mornin'.
MUD: What he say?
ELLIS: He was runnin' down Juniper. Ellis looks for a response, but Mud just jumps up into the boat and starts throwing pieces of wood on shore.
ELLIS (CONT'D): I told him he was a wore out old man. Told him he couldn't know how much you loved Juniper.
MUD: You don't know his story.
ELLIS: I don't care.
MUD: You should. Tom loved a woman more than most men could in two lifetimes. They had a good life started together. Mud hops down and scoops a load of wood into his arms.
MUD (CONT'D): She was pregnant with a little boy, but the birth got the better of `em. They didn't make it. Tom's been alone ever since. Lone wolf. Mud has begun walking back to the treeline. Ellis stays.
ELLIS: I gotta go help my dad. Mud turns back but doesn't stop moving.
MUD: Thanks for the wood Ellis. Ellis watches him go, thinking on what he said.
GALEN: This shit never gets easy.
NECKBONE: That's a good haul.
GALEN: I've had worse. Galen reclines as Neckbone kills the air compressor and begins organizing the gear. He watches his little nephew.
GALEN (CONT'D): You doin' all right?
NECKBONE: Yeah.
GALEN: You don't need to tell me anything?
NECKBONE: Tell you what?
GALEN: I know I'm just your uncle, not much of a parent. But you can tell me things if you need to.
NECKBONE: I can tell you this helmet smells like my duck butter.
SENIOR: Where'd you get that black eye?
ELLIS: A kid in town. He got his too.
SENIOR: What you fightin' for?
ELLIS: `Bout a girl.
SENIOR: What girl?
ELLIS: My girlfriend.
SENIOR: You got a girlfriend?
ELLIS: Yes sir.
SENIOR: When'd that happen?
ELLIS: Other day. Senior pats his shirt pocket and finds a smoke. Lights it.
SENIOR: You seen your mother today?
ELLIS: No.
SENIOR: You not talkin' to me?
ELLIS: I'm talkin'. I'm talkin' to both of you. That's all ya'll want to do is talk.
SENIOR: Well, that's your mother. Would rather tongue lash a problem than step up and handle it. You'll see one day. Women are tough. They'll set you up for things. You can't trust love, Ellis. If you're not careful, it'll run out on you. You just gotta pick a woman and roll the dice. Hope you don't wake up in fifteen years hatin' each other. Ellis keeps staring out the window as they pull into the parking lot of the Catfish Parlour Restaurant.
CONTINUOUS: Senior climbs out of the truck and enters the restaurant. Ellis pops open the tailgate and reaches for a cooler. The Catfish Parlour is one business in a strip center row. There is nothing else around save for farmland and a motel across the road. Ellis notices Carver's black LINCOLN parked in the motel lot. He walks away from the truck to get a better look. Ellis scans the FOUR OTHER VEHICLES in the lot. All Texas plates. A maroon Cadillac sails past and turns into the motel. Ellis recedes to the rear of his truck. He watches as KING(76), a fireplug of a man, emerges from the Cadillac. Cramped from a long drive, he stretches and eyes the sign for the Pines Motel. A motel room door opens and Carver walks out. He's smiling and calls out to King. They hug as a green PICK-UP pulls up. MILLER, a slick dressed man in black boots, climbs out.
CARVER: Daddy this is Miller. He's one of ours.
(SHAKING): How do you do? Appreciate your help.
MILLER: Yes sir.
CARVER: We'll be in in a minute. Miller nods and enters the motel room. King turns to Carver.
KING: Catch me up.
CARVER: They work in shifts. Two outside her motel, the others either out searching or sleepin' here. I met with the county sheriff but he wasn't much help. Said they'd handle their own business, but I got two of their people on payroll and a person on the inside at the state police.
KING: Good. Doin' good. Who all's here?
CARVER: All but two now. Nelson and James are watchin' her place. I called the rest in.
KING: Okay. Let's meet the men. Carver leads his father to the motel room.
CARVER: Get up. (to the others) Ya'll pay attention. The men get up from the beds and the others put down their cards. Everyone slowly gathers into an audience.
CARVER (CONT'D): This is my father, King. He runs the show. Carver recedes as King steps forward. He speaks like a high school football coach.
KING: Men. I wanna thank you for the work you're doin'. It's important work, and I want you to know what it means to me personally. I'm grateful for it. No man should have to bury his son. It's not natural, and it's a pain I hope none of you ever have to endure. King removes a photocopied picture of Mud from his pocket. He unfolds it, stares at it, then raises it to the men.
KING (CONT'D): This man did that to me. He took my youngest boy. And now, you're gonna help me get him. King stares at the men, keeping the photo held high.
KING (CONT'D): Now gather `round. Come on now, in a circle. I want ya'll to join hands. They do it reluctantly.
KING (CONT'D): Everybody take a knee. They do. King joins them on his knee and grabs Carver and another Man's hands.
KING (CONT'D): Bow your heads. I need you to help me pray for the death of the man that killed my son. They all bow their heads.
NECKBONE: You touch her breast?
ELLIS: A little.
NECKBONE: That's great man.
ELLIS: Thanks. Ellis walks up and knocks a stack of bricks off the trailer.
ELLIS (CONT'D): We could take it apart. Bring it out piece by piece.
NECKBONE: It's welded. We'd just tear it up. What if we float it out?
ELLIS: With what?
NECKBONE: Come on. Neckbone walks to the trailer. Ellis follows.
NECKBONE: Jesus! They squint and shield their eyes. The light shuts off as quickly as it came on. Galen stands in front of them wearing his wet suit. The bar with the flood lights attached sits across his shoulders. The boys rub their eyeballs, seeing spots. Galen shuffles over to the couch holding a marine battery connected to the lights. He labors to take a seat.
GALEN: What do you think?
NECKBONE: That's real good Galen.
(TO ELLIS): Gimme a minute. Neckbone, still blinking, goes back to his room. Ellis notices Galen staring at him. Galen pats the couch.
GALEN: Come `ere Ellis. Ellis takes a seat on the other end of the couch. Galen pats the spot next to him. Ellis scoots over, uncomfortable.
(POINTING UP): You see that ceiling fan?
ELLIS: Yeah.
GALEN: I found it in the river. Works great. Best ceiling fan I've ever owned. This river brings a lotta trash down it. Some a that trash is worth a lotta money, some of it's not. You gotta know what's worth keepin' and what's worth lettin' go. You know the difference?
ELLIS: I think so.
GALEN: Neck looks up to you. Don't get my nephew into anything you can't get him out of. Galen forces a stare with Ellis, who nods. Neckbone enters as Galen begins to remove his light rig.
GALEN (CONT'D): Help Me Rhonda's just about a guy needing to get a piece to get over a girl that put one over on him. So you get your heart broke, don't walk around with a shit look on your face. Get back in there. Get your tip wet. You hear me?
ELLIS: What?
GALEN: You know what I'm sayin'.
GALEN (CONT'D): Ya'll wanna hang out? Alan's comin' over. We're gonna pump it up.
NECKBONE: We got stuff to do.
GALEN: Whatever. The boys exit as Galen turns on the amp.
NECKBONE: What were ya'll talkin' about?
ELLIS: I don't know.
MUD: King. That's what they call him. A BOAT TRAILER rests atop FOUR, 55-GALLON BRIGHT YELLOW BARRELS affixed with plastic zip ties. The make-shift raft is half on shore with the back still floating in the water. The boys watch as Mud walks around the trailer cutting off the zip ties. The barrels kick out from underneath the trailer as this happens.
MUD (CONT'D): He's their father. You didn't go near him did you?
ELLIS: No.
MUD: Good. That left-handed sonofabitch is the devil himself. If he's here, then it's time. We need to get Juniper out here.
ELLIS: We still need a motor.
NECKBONE: There's a motor in the scrap yard might work.
MUD: I need one that runs. Mud moves to the front of the boat trailer and begins dragging it fully onto the bank. It's heavy.
NECKBONE: I can get it runnin'. Tell him Ellis.
ELLIS: It's true. He built his own dirt bike.
MUD: All right then. Give it a shot.
ELLIS: I don't know. That motor's worth somethin'. It's not like this other junk.
NECKBONE: It's been there for months. Nobody's even gonna know it's gone. Ellis hesitates. He looks to Mud.
MUD: We do need a motor. Ellis thinks on it as Mud takes a deep breath and grabs the trailer again.
ELLIS: I wanna talk to room 212.
JUNIPER: Hello?
ELLIS: Juniper?
JUNIPER: Ellis?
ELLIS: It's me.
JUNIPER: Thank god. I've been goin' crazy in this room. Is Mud okay?
ELLIS: Yeah. It's time to take you out to him.
JUNIPER: Now?
ELLIS: Tomorrow. We'll come get you.
JUNIPER: What's goin' on?
ELLIS: He's got a plan for ya'll to get away. Be ready tomorrow at five. Neckbone'll be waitin' at the back of the motel with a dirt bike.
JUNIPER: They're watching my room.
ELLIS: I'll take care of that. Just be ready at five.
JUNIPER: Wait. Just wait. I don't know about alla this. I don't even know what he thinks we're gonna do. Where are we even gonna go? This is Mud. This is what Mud does. Ellis hears her crying through the phone.
ELLIS: It's okay. He's got the boat. We helped him fix it up. It's a good plan. Just be ready.
JUNIPER: Why are you even doing this?
ELLIS: What do you mean?
JUNIPER: Why are you helping us?
ELLIS: Cause ya'll love each other. Juniper searches for a comment. Ellis, looking out over the parking lot, sees May Pearl getting out of a car with her MOTHER and SISTER.
ELLIS (CONT'D): I'll see you tomorrow.
JUNIPER: Wait. Dial Tone. Juniper holds the phone, worried.
NECKBONE: How'd it go?
ELLIS: We're good.
NECKBONE: Gimme a quarter. This shit took mine. Ellis watches May Pearl entering the grocery store. He calls out with a wave.
NECKBONE: It's all right man. She's with her family. Come on. I wanna get that motor before dark. They head to the dirt bike.
CARVER (CONT'D): You remember me don't you? Ellis nods. Carver notes the healing bruise on Ellis' face.
CARVER (CONT'D): I'm sure sorry about that. Ya'll caught me at a real bad time.
CARVER (CONT'D): Hold on now. One second. I don't want ya'll thinkin' I'm a bad guy. Ya'll were just trying to do a job, and I got in your way. Carver removes a roll of twenties and peels off two.
CARVER (CONT'D): Let's just say I bought that whole batch of fish ya'll were sellin'. Would forty cover it?
NECKBONE: That'd bout do it.
ELLIS: We don't want your money. Carver steps in close to the boys.
CARVER: I bet ya'll really get around this town. Probably know every hole and ditch. Have ya'll come across the man whose picture I showed you?
ELLIS: No. Carver removes a flier with Mud's picture and holds it out.
CARVER: You sure about that? Take a look with your good eye.
ELLIS: I'm sure.
CARVER: What about that girl in the motel? The pretty one. Ya'll talk to her some more?
ELLIS: No. Carver smiles. He tucks the flier and the forty dollars into Ellis' hand.
CARVER: There's a number on there. Ya'll let me know if you do.
NECKBONE: Jesus that's heavy. The boys get on either side of the motor and begin half- dragging it back to the fence line.
NECKBONE: Where are those bastards?
ELLIS: I don't know.
(HANGS UP): She's not answerin'.
NECKBONE: What do you wanna do?
ELLIS: Take your bike around the side. I'll check her room. We'll just have to hope no one sees us. Neckbone cranks the bike and speeds toward the motel. Ellis looks to the motel, then the parking lot.
NECKBONE: Shit. Was she there?
ELLIS: Nothin'. Ellis notices the front office
ELLIS (CONT'D): Come on.
ELLIS: Scuse me, sir?
MOTEL CLERK: Yeah.
ELLIS: We're lookin' for the girl in room 212. You seen her?
MOTEL CLERK: I've seen her.
ELLIS: You see her today.
MOTEL CLERK: Yeah, she came down askin' for directions to the nearest bar. I told her to head out to a place on
NECKBONE: You think this is it?
ELLIS: It's gotta be.
BARTENDER: Ya'll stay outta here! Ellis just stands staring at the front door. The Bartender makes a swatting motion toward them.
NECKBONE: Thanks a lot asshole!
(TO ELLIS): Come on man. They head over to Neckbone's dirt bike. He pulls out the key and climbs on. Ellis hesitates.
NECKBONE (CONT'D): I'll take you home.
ELLIS: We're gonna have to tell Mud. Neckbone drops his head, nods reluctantly.
ELLIS: Just leave it. Mud'll have to help get it.
NECKBONE: What're you gonna tell him?
ELLIS: I'll just tell him the truth.
MUD: What you say there?! Ellis appears out of the dark, followed by Neckbone. Mud's eyes search the treeline for Juniper.
MUD (CONT'D): What you say Ellis? Ellis can't look him in the eye.
ELLIS: We got that motor.
MUD: Is Juniper okay?
ELLIS: Yeah.
MUD: Where is she?
ELLIS: She didn't meet up with us.
MUD: What happened? Was it Carver?
ELLIS: It wasn't Carver. Mud straightens up, prepares for the news.
MUD: What's goin' on Ellis?
ELLIS: She was supposed to meet us on the side of the motel. She never showed up. We went asking for her. The motel clerk told us she went to a bar out on 61.
MUD: What?
ELLIS: We tracked her down. She was there with another guy.
(HESITATES): They were together. Mud's face drops. He walks to the fire and shakes a cooking pot resting in the coals. The pot bubbles with roof tar.
MUD: She probably thought Carver was on to her.
ELLIS: She knew the plan Mud. She just didn't show up.
MUD: What was she doin' with the other guy? Ellis hesitates, not wanting to say. Mud pushes.
MUD (CONT'D): What were they doin' Ellis?
ELLIS: They were playin' pool. Drinkin'. He was close up on her. They were laughin'. He kissed her on the neck. Mud nods.
MUD: And that's how it is. He takes the pot of roofing tar over to the boat and begins pasting some of the newly replaced boards with a flat stick.
ELLIS: What do you want us to do?
MUD: Just go home Ellis. Ellis looks at Neckbone, then sets the grocery sack on the ground.
ELLIS: Tom left this for you. They slowly retreat into the woods and disappear. Mud turns back to the campfire and shoves the pot into the ashes. His eyes, soft and red, reflect the flame.
ELLIS: You think it's all right to leave him alone?!
NECKBONE: I doubt it! Neckbone sees Ellis' concern.
NECKBONE (CONT'D): I'll sleep over at your house tonight! We can check on him first thing tomorrow! Ellis nods. As they head further up river, the island grows smaller, silhouetted by the moonlight.
ELLIS: Hello? Is May Pearl there...This is Ellis...I called yesterday, you give her my message?...My name is Ellis. I'm her boyfriend...Oh, she's asleep...I said she's asleep? The front door flies open. Senior storms headlong toward Ellis. He shouts.
SENIOR (CONT'D): What the hell have you been doing?
SENIOR: You tell her. You tell her what you've been up to.
ELLIS: I don't know what you're sayin'.
MARY LEE: Take your hands off him Senior! Senior keeps Ellis pinned to the wall with his left hand. He opens up and addresses Mary Lee with his right.
SENIOR: J.J. Crawford said a boat motor went missin' from his stock yard. Said his daughter saw this one and his friend haulin' it off. This makes Mary Lee pause.
SENIOR (CONT'D): Now you tell me right now, did you steal that motor?
ELLIS: We didn't steal it.
SENIOR: Lie to me again.
ELLIS: We thought it was junk. We didn't think it was worth anything.
MARY LEE: Ellis? A cool anger rushes over Senior's face. He releases Ellis and takes a step back.
SENIOR: You tell me I raised a thief?
ELLIS: I'm not a thief.
SENIOR: You take property that's not yours. Property that belongs to another man. That junk is his livelihood. I'm ashamed of you. Ellis drops his head. His face flushed.
MARY LEE: Senior.
SENIOR: (to Mary Lee) Shut your mouth. You think you can take things and not have him see it? Neither one of you has any respect for a man's livelihood. A life that puts clothes on your back and food in your stomach.
MARY LEE: Don't you blame this on me. One doesn't have a thing to do with the other and you know it.
SENIOR: Don't tell me what I know. If you can steal a man's life out from under him in front of your son and think he won't take a lesson from it than you're even dumber than you look.
ELLIS: Stop it dad.
SENIOR: She's raisin' you a snake like herself, and you can curl up with her `fore I give a damn. You just remember this when you watch them rip this house apart board by board. You Hear Me! Mary Lee slaps Senior hard. He turns to her, saying nothing.
MARY LEE: You're a man who's never had the strength to support his own life. I never asked you for a thing, and I've never took a thing from you that I couldn't provide for on my own. If they do tear my home apart the only joy I'll have in my heart is knowin' that they'll be tearing you out of my life for good. She wipes her eyes and turns her attention to Ellis.
ELLIS: I can't take that motor back. But I'll pay him for it. I'll pay him what he wants for it. Senior, stoic, pivots his body away from the boy.
SENIOR: I don't care what you do Ellis. Senior retreats to the bedroom. Ellis is left alone in the wake. He looks to his room. The door opens slightly and Neckbone takes a step out. Neckbone doesn't say anything. He just bites at his lip, sympathy for his friend.
NECKBONE: What the hell's all this?
ELLIS: It's a bonfire.
NECKBONE: I guess he didn't care about bein' seen. Ellis kicks at one of the burned logs. He bends down and finds the bottle of Jack Daniels, smashed.
ELLIS: He had something else on his mind. Come on. Ellis leads Neckbone into the treeline.
MUD: What are ya'll hidin' for? Mud drops the wiring and scales down to the bank. They emerge from the woods. Ellis carries the yellow shirt.
ELLIS: We found your shirt. Ellis tosses it to him. Mud tosses it back.
MUD: Keep it. I don't need it anymore. Mud goes to the motor at the rear to tinker with more wires.
ELLIS: We saw what's left of your bonfire.
(NO RESPONSE): Somebody could've seen you.
MUD: I guess.
ELLIS: You do some drinkin' last night?
MUD: I did a lot of drinkin' last night. Mud stops and walks over to address the boys. His face is pale and his manner is curt.
MUD (CONT'D): Neck I'm gonna need you here to get the motor runnin'. Ellis I need you to do something else for me. Mud removes a folded note from his back pocket.
MUD (CONT'D): I need you to take this to Juniper.
ELLIS: Okay Mud. Ellis takes the letter. Mud goes back to the boat motor. He motions to Neckbone to join him.
MUD: Let's go.
ELLIS: You still takin' Juniper?
MUD: I had a dream last night. I saw Juniper laying in a field with another man. They were making love. I walked out into the field. Walked toward `em. I was so angry the tips of my ears were burnin'. That's how I knew I was gonna kill this man. But when I got up close enough, I saw that the man she was with had tattoos on his back, just like mine. I moved in closer and the guy turns his head back toward me. Hair for hair, dead truth, the guy she was with was me. Mud ducks back under the motor. Ellis looks at Neckbone, worried.
MUD (CONT'D): I'll finish the boat, but I'd be surprised if I live long enough to sail on it. A vision of yourself is a sure sign of death. Neck can you grab me a socket wrench? Neckbone and Ellis walk to the toolbox sitting nearby. They crouch by it, speaking quietly.
NECKBONE: You be all right?
ELLIS: Yeah. What about you?
NECKBONE: He'll be okay.
ELLIS: Can I borrow your bike? Neckbone fishes the key out of his pocket. Hesitates.
NECKBONE: Don't tump it. Ellis nods. Neckbone walks over to Mud with the toolbox. Letter in hand, Ellis gives a final look toward Mud's labor and walks back into the woods. On his way, he stops to hang Mud's shirt on a tree branch.
ELLIS: (into the phone) Hello. I saw the guy you're lookin' for...Yeah, he's crazy lookin'. Saw him at the Wal-mart outside of Gillet. He was buyin' some beanie weenie...'bout five minutes ago.
JUNIPER: I was wonderin' when I'd see you. Ellis checks over his shoulder and walks inside
JUNIPER: I'm sorry about last night. I didn't plan on... Before she can finish Ellis has fished the letter out of his pocket and holds it out to her.
ELLIS: I'm supposed to give this to you. Juniper takes the letter.
JUNIPER: Okay. Ellis goes to the door. He pulls the bedroom curtain back slightly to check the parking lot. The coast is clear.
JUNIPER (CONT'D): Did you read it?
ELLIS: No. I gotta go.
JUNIPER: Ellis? He turns to her.
JUNIPER (CONT'D): I'm sorry.
ELLIS: All you had to do was be there.
JUNIPER: I couldn't.
ELLIS: Then why'd you even come here?
JUNIPER: I came here to leave with him. I really did. But now...now I guess I just came to say goodbye. His eyes fall to the floor.
JUNIPER (CONT'D): You don't know us Ellis. We've been headin' this way for a long time.
ELLIS: I know he'd do anything for you. She puts her cigarette out in a Coke can on the floor.
JUNIPER: You really believe that? Ellis nods. Juniper speaks to him gently, almost smiling. It's a look of resignation.
JUNIPER (CONT'D): Mud's a born liar. That's what makes him so likable. He makes people feel good about themselves. He's a romantic. I don't think he means to hurt people. But when people get close to him, that's what happens. Ellis watches her as she goes to the sink and wets the end of a towel. She dabs her eyes at the mirror.
JUNIPER (CONT'D): I do love him Ellis. But I can't spend the rest of my life runnin' with him. I may not know what kind of life I want, but I know that's not it. Her back to him, Ellis watches as she unfolds the letter and begins reading. He angles himself to see her face in the mirror. He watches her eyes scanning the words. No emotion.
JUNIPER (CONT'D): Tell him I understand.
ELLIS: What's it say?
JUNIPER: It says it's over. Tell him I've packed my things. Tell him I've gone. She takes a deep breath and smiles at him.
JUNIPER (CONT'D): Bye Ellis. Ellis turns and walks out.
KYLE: So what'd she say?
MAY PEARL: She said she didn't like him that much. I told her I thought he was all right. Ellis appears with his elbows in the driver's side window. He sticks his head so far in the door that Kyle has to lean back in his seat to make room. May Pearl is surprised. Kyle snorts out a laugh.
ELLIS: You get my phone calls?
MAY PEARL: What?
ELLIS: I've been callin' you. (motions with his head) Who's this guy?
KYLE: Get your head outta my car kid. Ellis takes his right elbow and quickly knocks Kyle in the mouth. It splits his upper lip. Kyle grabs his face.
KYLE (CONT'D): Shit!
MAY PEARL: Ellis!
ELLIS: I called you twice yesterday. Your sister didn't tell you? Kyle slings the door open knocking Ellis to the pavement. From the ground, Ellis can see that Kyle is big and considerably tougher than the skinny kid he punched before. Kyle's friends from other cars take notice and begin to converge on them. Ellis makes a move for Kyle's legs but is kicked back to the pavement. Kyle straddles him on the ground and punches him. Another punch to Ellis' face. May Pearl is out of the car and yelling.
MAY PEARL: Kyle! Stop it Kyle!
ELLIS: What?
MAY PEARL: You can't just run up and punch people I'm with!
ELLIS: I'm sorry, I just wanted to know why you hadn't called me back.
MAY PEARL: Why would I call you back Ellis?
ELLIS: Because you're my girlfriend. The crowd is watching.
MAY PEARL: I'm not your girlfriend! We went on one date. One!
ELLIS: We kissed.
MAY PEARL: That doesn't matter!
ELLIS: Yeah but...
MAY PEARL: But what Ellis?! What did you expect?!
ELLIS: I love you.
MAY PEARL: You're fourteen!
ELLIS: Don't. Wait. We can make this work. We can figure it out. I love you.
MAY PEARL: What? Ellis is losing it. His eyes are red. He looks at the crowd of kids. There are smiles and some snickering. May Pearl is speechless. She just stares at him. Ellis turns and walks back to the dirt bike. May Pearl's girlfriends gather around her. She shakes her head, dumbstruck. Ellis lifts the bike off the ground. He looks back at May Pearl who appears to be shrugging off the whole affair in front of her friends. Ellis speeds off.
SENIOR: What the hell are you doin'?! Ellis says nothing. He doesn't move. Senior, continuing to yell, runs and drags a hose up from the houseboat.
SENIOR (CONT'D): Ellis dammit! What the hell's wrong with you?! The fire hisses as Senior turns the hose on it.
SENIOR (CONT'D): Ellis? Look at me. Ellis finally looks up at his father. A phone RINGS from inside the houseboat. Senior holds the hose in front of him.
SENIOR (CONT'D): Take it. Put this damn thing out.
ELLIS: What are you doing? Ellis watches as dresses and blouses begin to shrivel up in the flames.
ELLIS (CONT'D): Stop it! That's mom's stuff! STOP
NECKBONE: Try it now. Mud turns a switch. No result.
MUD: Nothin'.
NECKBONE: Sonofabitch. Ellis emerges from the treeline. Mud sees him and hops down from the boat. He walks up to him.
MUD: What'd she... Ellis punches Mud with as much force as he can muster. It's barely enough to turn Mud's face, but it stuns him.
ELLIS: You're a liar. Makin' two kids run around doin' work you're too scared to do yourself. Makin' me tell her it's over `cause you're too scared to do it yourself. Mud steps back and gives the boy his space. Neckbone has made his way over and watches from behind Mud.
ELLIS (CONT'D): You said you loved her and you lied. You gave up on her and she gave up on you just like everybody else. I trusted you. Bonfires and crosses. Wolf's eye bullshit. Mud tries to approach him but the boy explodes, shoving him.
MUD: Come on Ellis. Mud holds a hand out to him. Ellis slaps it away.
ELLIS: You made me a thief! Ellis walks back into the woods. Mud exhales and turns back to Neckbone.
NECKBONE: Let me talk to him.
NECKBONE: Ellis! Ellis, stop for a second! Neckbone watches as Ellis reaches the tree trunk that bridges the creek. Ellis steps onto the log, but his muddy shoes miss a step. He SLIPS. Neckbone sees Ellis disappear down into the creek bed.
MUD: Get the motor started. Neckbone cranks the motor. As they move up river, Mud searches Ellis' body. He looks at his neck, his arms, he pulls up his shirt.
NECKBONE: IS HE OKAY?! Is he bit?! Mud notices Ellis' jeans leg riding up. He pulls the jeans back. A BITE in the middle of his calf. It's a bluish bruise with two distinct red dots. The skin around the bite has already begun to swell.
MUD: Shit. He rips the jeans up to the thigh. Mud tears a section of cloth from the bottom of his own shirt and creates a tourniquet just below Ellis' knee.
MUD (CONT'D): What time is it? Mud pulls a black Sharpie out of his pocket. Neckbone doesn't answer, just stares.
NECKBONE: It's four eighteen! Mud draws a line on Ellis' leg just above the swollen bite. He writes, "418".
MUD: Yell out every 10 minutes! Mud elevates Ellis' leg then gently cups his head. He dabs the gash on Ellis' forehead.
NECKBONE: Is he gonna be okay?!
MUD: We just need to get him to a clinic! Is there still one in town?!
NECKBONE: Yeah!
MUD: It's the closest?!
NECKBONE: Yeah!
MUD: I'm gonna need your bike!
NECKBONE: Are you bit?! Mud shakes his head.
MUD: No. He holds Ellis as they move steadily up river.
NECKBONE: My bike should be just over that ridge! Mud looks at Ellis' leg. The swelling has crept up his thigh. Black lines with numbers mark its progress: "428, 438, 448". Ellis' face has taken on a blue tint.
FEMALE NURSE: Just stay calm. What's going on?
MUD: He's been snake bit. ANOTHER NURSE rushes off calling for a doctor. The room becomes more frenzied. Patients talking. Nurses shouting.
MUD (CONT'D): He's snake bit. A cotton mouth. On his calf. Just under an hour. As quickly as Mud gets this out, a GROUP of NURSES rush out of a door at the end of the room pushing a gurney. They take Ellis from Mud's arm, place him on the gurney, and speed him into the back of the clinic. The commotion gone, the reception area feels oddly still. Mud takes a deep breath. He looks to his right. Patients stare at him. He's beyond disheveled. He's crazy looking. Mud turns to his left. The Male Nurse stares at him. For the first time, Mud realizes he's out in the open.
MALE NURSE: Sir? Mud slowly backs up.
MALE NURSE: Sir?! Mud hops into the bank of trees and disappears.
KING: Hello...Yes...Yessir we are...Uh huh. King takes a pen from his shirt pocket and scribbles on a pad on the nightstand.
KING (CONT'D): Now where'd you say you were?...Okay...He's gone. Okay...But you say he left the boy?...And your name sir?
MARY LEE: It's okay. You're okay. Just set back. Mary Lee guides Ellis back down on the pillow. Senior stands with his arm on her shoulder. They look down at their son.
ELLIS: Where am I?
MARY LEE: You're home. We got you home. Ellis takes a second to get his bearings. His mother lifts a glass of Sprite up to his mouth. He takes a sip.
SENIOR: You had us scared son. Senior steps forward and kisses Ellis on the forehead. Staying close to his face.
(WHISPERS): I'm so glad you're okay.
MARY LEE: The doctors gave you some medicine. You had a snake bite.
ELLIS: How'd I get to the doctor?
MARY LEE: A man brought you in. No one knew him. Ellis tries to sit up in bed, but his mother stops him.
ELLIS: No. Senior gently pats her shoulders.
SENIOR: Come on. Let's let him rest. Mary Lee touches Senior's hand on her shoulder. She stands.
MARY LEE: I'll be back in to check on you but just try and sleep if you can.
ELLIS: Okay. Senior leads Mary Lee to the door.
ELLIS (CONT'D): Mom? Dad? They turn back.
ELLIS (CONT'D): I love ya'll.
MARY LEE: We love you too Ellis. They exit the room. Ellis rests his head back on the pillow and takes a deep breath.
(STRAINING): Almost there. The wheels finally turn over. The trailer rolls down the bank and splashes into the water. The boat shimmies. Mud and Neckbone follow the trailer into knee deep water and shove on the boat. A final push jettisons it into the river. They step back as the boat drifts out. A rope tied to its back becomes taught as it stretches from a tree on shore.
MUD (CONT'D): The sun does shine on a dog's ass some days.
NECKBONE: It ain't sunk yet. Mud smiles. He holds out his hand, which Neckbone slaps.
NECKBONE (CONT'D): I wish Ellis could see it.
MUD: I know. Mud walks back on shore and collects his duffel bag.
MUD (CONT'D): I owe you your end of the deal. Mud removes the pistol from the back of his jeans. Neckbone's eyes light up. Mud hands it over and Neckbone immediately notices a hole where the clip is missing.
NECKBONE: Where the bullets?
MUD: The deal was for the gun, not the bullets.
NECKBONE: Shit. Neckbone begrudgingly crams the pistol into the back of his pants.
MUD: I got one last favor to ask you. Neckbone sucks his teeth.
MUD: Ellis?
ELLIS: Mud?
MUD: Yeah. Mud pulls his body through the window. It's tight but he manages to make it look somewhat graceful. Mud takes a quick survey of the dark room. Ellis begins to get out of bed.
MUD (CONT'D): No, don't get up. Mud motions him back down and pulls the chair from the desk over to the bed. They speak in hushed voices.
ELLIS: How'd you get here?
MUD: Neck brought me.
MUD: We got the boat in the water.
ELLIS: You did?
MUD: Just now. Smooth sailin' from here on out.
ELLIS: Good.
MUD: Wish you coulda seen it.
ELLIS: Me too.
MUD: Didn't feel right leavin' town without sayin' goodbye. There is an awkward moment.
ELLIS: I'm sorry `bout what I said.
MUD: No. No. You were right to be mad. You were right about a lot of things. I'm the one that's sorry. I shoulda never gotten ya'll into all this. I just didn't see any other way around it. But I couldn't leave without you knowin' I never lied about being your friend. I never lied about that.
ELLIS: I know.
MUD: I don't traffic in the truth too often. But I did love her. I do love her.
ELLIS: She loves you too. She said it. This fact still strikes Mud. He nods.
MUD: I just made mistakes. We both did. This is a hard life to keep up with. You can't blame her for gettin' tired of tryin'.
ELLIS: My dad says you can't count on women lovin' you. He says you can't trust it.
MUD: That's not true. Don't judge your life on all of our mistakes. You'll make plenty mistakes of your own, no need takin' on everybody else's. You're a good man Ellis. If you find a girl half as good, you'll be all right.
ELLIS: You're a good man too Mud. Mud smiles.
MUD: No. I'm not. But maybe from here on out I can be... A SHOTGUN BLAST rips a fist-sized hole in the flimsy interior wall. Mud, as if by reflex, yanks Ellis from the sheets and shoves him under the bed.
ELLIS: Mud?!
MUD: Stay put! JUST STAY UNDER THERE! The SOUND of shotgun shells being slipped into the chamber. Mud gets to a crouch. Through the holes in the wall, Mud makes out Nelson, the fat bounty hunter, reloading his gun.
(WHISPERING): Don't move Ellis. Just stay put. They just want me. Through the holes Mud sees Nelson approaching Ellis' bedroom. He runs for the window at the foot of the bed. Another shotgun BLAST throws open the door as Mud leaps out.
A141: partially lit by the two flood lights. FOUR other BOUNTY HUNTERS swarm the boat.
CARVER: Let him go. James unhands the boy. Neckbone sprints into the woods.
CARVER (CONT'D): Come on. They move toward the houseboat.
MUD: You still down there bud?
ELLIS: Yeah.
MUD: Stay put. Mud pops out of the bedroom into the den.
CARVER: Flush him out this way. Carver walks to the covered carport.
SENIOR (CONT'D): It's okay. It's okay. The two sit alone on the edge of the houseboat. The river seems especially quiet now.
KING: Hello...You're speaking to him... King listens. His face taut.
KING (CONT'D): He's dead? (a long pause) Okay. King hangs up the phone. He sits at the edge of the bed, overwhelmed by the news.
NECKBONE: Hey.
ELLIS: You got your bike back.
NECKBONE: Mud dinged the shit out of it. Neckbone takes a seat next to Ellis. They watch the workers.
NECKBONE (CONT'D): They're really doin' it.
ELLIS: It's the law.
NECKBONE: It's bullshit. They ever find Tom? The boys focus on Tom Blankenship's boat across the bayou. It sits vacant, covered in police tape.
ELLIS: No. He's gone.
NECKBONE: Your dad not here?
ELLIS: Said he couldn't watch it. He's pickin' me up in a minute. Got deliveries today. They sit in silence as the Workers exit off the houseboat.
NECKBONE: Heard on the news. They still hadn't found Mud's body. Ellis nods.
NECKBONE (CONT'D): You think he's dead?
ELLIS: I don't know. I hope not. The crane begins lifting up the houseboat. The metal wires tighten and the entire structure creaks. A sucking sound as the flotilla separate from the water. The boat hangs, suspended in the air. A HORN HONKS behind the boys. Ellis turns to see Senior's truck.
ELLIS (CONT'D): I gotta go. Come by the apartment. Help me set my room up.
NECKBONE: All right. Neckbone watches Ellis climb into the bed of the pick-up and take his spot on the coolers. The sound of twisting metal shifts his attention back to the houseboat being swung over a flatbed semi.
ELLIS: I'll see you next week?
SENIOR: Yeah. Ellis begins to get out but stops when Senior speaks.
SENIOR (CONT'D): Ellis? You mind your mother okay? This is a big change for her. She needs your support.
ELLIS: Yessir.
SENIOR: All right. I love you.
ELLIS: Love you too. Ellis climbs out. He watches as Senior pulls away. He stands alone in front of the apartments, studying the surroundings. A busy road out front. A gas station and collection of stores. A lot of people and commotion. A compact car pulls into a parking spot one building down. Ellis watches as three COLLEGE AGE GIRLS climb out dressed in running shorts and t-shirts. Two are heavy set, the other is petite. They joke and laugh. One sees Ellis and waves. Ellis nods to her. He tracks them as they walk inside. Ellis smirks.
TOM: Come on son. You need to see this. Mud, groggy, raises up. Tom helps him to his feet, putting an arm over his shoulders. Tom practically carries Mud outside.
