YEAR ONE: Written by
THE WOMAN: ( looking deep in his eyes ) I'm so hungry.
THE MAN: ( wanting her ) Yeah. Me, too. The DRUMS get hotter as he closes his eyes and leans in to kiss her, but she turns and walks away.
WOMAN: What should we eat?
THE MAN: Oh, you actually meant you were hungry. I thought forget it.
THE WOMAN: Mmmm, these are so good.
THE MAN: Mmrrunm, they really are . When she turns away he spits them out in disgust. Maya smiles and puts her face very close to his, their lips almost touching.
MAYA: ( very sexy ) You know what I'd really like?
ZED: ( HOPEFULLY ) Some fruit.
MAYA: Some fruit.
ZED: ( frustrated, but hanging
MAYA: ( THINKS ) He scans the nearby trees.
ZED: Orange? Tangerine? ( she shakes her head ) Umm, mango? Kiwi? Peach? She shakes her head coyly. He starts darting from tree to tree, hopefully pointing out various options. She follows him.
MAYA: ( COQUETTISHLY ) ( fake smile ) Okay, don't tell me papaya? Pomegranate? Lemon? Lime? Kumquat? Uh, cock? Cockfruit?
ZED: ( fake smile ) Okay, don't tell me papaya? Pomegranate? Lemon? Lime? Kumquat? Uh, cock? Cockfruit?
MAYA: The game is no longer cute but he still plays along.
NOOO: The game is no longer cute but he still plays along.
ZED: Watermelon? Honeydew? Grapes?
MAYA: ( this is a lot of work to get laid ) Starfruit, casaba tangelo?
NOOO: ( this is a lot of work to get laid ) Starfruit, casaba tangelo?
ZED: ( this is a lot of work to get laid ) Starfruit, casaba tangelo?
MAYA: ( he doesn't even like her
ZED: ( he doesn't even like her
ANYMORE ): Okay, I give up. Which fruit do you want?
MAYA: ( POINTS ) That one. Zed looks. It's a beautiful tree with lush, apple-like red fruit hanging from it.
ZED: ( SCOFFS ) Yeah, right. Okay.
MAYA: Why not?
ZED: Because that's the fruit we don't eat! It's forbidden.
MAYA: Why not?
ZED: Because we don't! It's a rule! That's the Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil. You don't eat from that one. Nobody ever has.
MAYA: Why not?
ZED: Stop saying why not! I told you it's a rule.
MAYA: So do you always follow the rules?
ZED: No yeah I don't know. We don't have that many rules. In fact, we only have one rule DON'T EAT THAT
MAYA: Okay, fine. We won't. Forget I mentioned it. I understand if you're afraid
ZED: I'm not "afraid"
MAYA: No, really, it's all right. I just thought you might be curious why we can eat everything else that walks, crawls, swims, flies, or grows in the ground, but not that particular fruit. And I thought you might be the kind of man who's willing to take a chance and start thinking for himself, but I guess I was She glares defiantly at Zed, then starts to walk away. It's not Paradise anymore. Then like every man that ever lived and will ever live, he caves.
ZED: Okay! Fine! You want to try the Good and Evil fruit, you got it. He rips two ripe fruits from a low-hanging bough and hands her one. They both stare at the fruit.
MAYA: You first.
ZED: No way! It was your idea. You go We both bite at the same time. Zed considers for a long moment then decides.
MAYA: We both bite at the same time. Zed considers for a long moment then decides.
ZED: Okay. Ready? One two three! Zed chomps down hard and takes a big bite, but Maya fakes him out and stops before her teeth break the skin. ZED ( cont'd ) ( with his mouth full ) Got me. That's a good move. I'm going to steal it. He starts chewing and she watches as he gets his first taste of Good and Evil. Then his face contorts in disgust and he spits it out. ZED ( cont'd ) ( gagging and spitting ) Yuchh! That's horrible. Yecch, ptui! Ughh. He frantically wipes the inside of his mouth with his fingers, trying to get the terrible taste out.
MAYA: So you're saying it's not good?
ZED: Yes! I'm saying it's not good! He grabs his belly as his stomach starts to cramp. Then a loud bowel sound and his eyebrows shoot up. ZED ( cont'd ) Oh, no
MAYA: ( noticing something ) Ooh, banana!
MARLAK: ( blunt grunt ) For you.
MAYA: ( forces a grateful smile ) Thank you, Marlak.
OH: ( GRUMBLING ) Look at them. Hunters think they're so cool. They don't think gathering is dangerous? There are thorns bees those big stingy ants. I could hunt I just don't want to. And what's with the blood on their faces? They think that's Official White 7.
ZED: ( miserable with pain ) Do me a favor. Just kill me.
OH: Why did you eat that fruit? It's forbidden. Everybody knows that.
ZED: I couldn't help myself! Maya was just staring at me with those pouty eyes and those perky breasts opposable thumbs. And how about the name? "The Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil"? You don't think that sounds tempting? They should've just called it "The Tree with the Fruit that Tastes Like Shit." Then for sure nobody would eat it. Zed notices a VILLAGER squatting in the bushes right behind his dwelling. ZED ( cont'd ) ( shouts testily ) Hey! Squanto! Give me a break, would ya'! You got the whole ( to Oh ) Why does everyone have to crap right behind my hut?
OH: I think, and I could be wrong, that all the poop makes the ground more fertile, which in turn, gives the leaves in the area a softer feel. It's a vicious circle. Oh notices a very pretty young woman, EEMA, standing near the communal fire with TWO HUNTERS. His heart leaps. OH ( cont'd ) ( calls out eagerly ) Hi, Eema! Eema turns, sees it's him and gives him a perfunctory wave, then turns back to the hunters and says something about Oh that makes them laugh.
ZED: I don't see it. I mean she's cute, but I don't think I'd lay with her.
OH: Of course not! She's your sister! It'd be like sleeping with your which was a big mistake. I see that now. You think it won't be awkward the next morning but trust me, you just want to rip your eyeballs out. ( shakes off the memory ) Listen, if you want to impress Eema, tonight at the feast, do the fertility dance with her, then drag her back to your hut.
ZED: which was a big mistake. I see that now. You think it won't be awkward the next morning but trust me, you just want to rip your eyeballs out. ( shakes off the memory ) Listen, if you want to impress Eema, tonight at the feast, do the fertility dance with her, then drag her back to your hut.
OH: My hut's a mess. And what if she So you give her a little tap on the head. Women respond to that
ZED: So you give her a little tap on the head. Women respond to that
OH: ( SIGHS ) No. She only likes hunters not They look over at Eema, who is now slowly stroking the shaft of a hunter's spear.
ZED: I wouldn't read too much into that. She kisses, then tongues the spear tip. ZED ( cont'd ) Okay, that might mean something. The hunter Marlak walks by and stops. He's clearly half a rung lower on the human evolutionary scale.
MARLAK: You didn't hunt today.
ZED: Yes, Marlak. Very observant. I was indisposed. Got that intestinal thing that's been going Marlak grunts and examines the primitive line drawings on the walls of Zed's hut.
MARLAK: ( points at a drawing ) What's that supposed to be?
ZED: It's a bear.
MARLAK: That's not a bear. That's just some lines on a skin.
ZED: ( SIGHS ) It's not a real bear. It's a "representation" of a bear. You know, a "picture."
MARLAK: That's stupid.
ZED: Yeah. Like you'd know.
MARLAK: And what's that? He picks up a skin with another of Zed's drawings on it, this one of a big-breasted naked girl. Zed quickly grabs it and holds it upside down.
ZED: That would be an antelope or a deer a deerpalope.
MARLAK: ( trying to look at it upside down ) It looks like Maya.
ZED: ( hides it away ) How could it be Maya? It's just some lines on a skin.
MARLAK: Stay away from my woman.
ZED: Your woman? I'm not sure dragging her into the bushes kicking and screaming means you have an actual "thing" going. Marlak cuffs him hard on the side of the head.
MARLAK: ( walking off ) Stay away.
ZED: ( calls after him ) Hey! Nice supra-orbital ridge, DISSOLVE TO: 5 A ROARING FIRE The DRUMS kick up another notch as the huge boar roasts on a spit over a roaring fire.
ZED: Hey, Oh? Did it ever occur to you that there may be more to life than ( taking the pipe from Zed ) Okay, I think somebody's had Official White 11.
OH: ( taking the pipe from Zed ) Okay, I think somebody's had Official White 11.
ZED: No, I'm serious.We're born into thisworld, we hunt, we gather, we eat,we sleep, we make babies
OH: You make babies
ZED: but why? What's the point?
OH: You always get like this when you Oh takes a big toke on the pipe, chokes, and starts coughing No. Last night I couldn't sleep, so I just laid there looking up at the sky, counting the stars. There were over seventy. Kinda makes you think, doesn't it?
ZED: No. Last night I couldn't sleep, so I just laid there looking up at the sky, counting the stars. There were over seventy. Kinda makes you think, doesn't it?
OH: ( looks up at the sky ) Really? I've been thinking about it ever since I ate that fruit. Don't you ever wonder what's on the other side of the mountains?
ZED: Really? I've been thinking about it ever since I ate that fruit. Don't you ever wonder what's on the other side of the mountains?
OH: There's nothing on the other side of the mountains. Everybody knows that. The world just ends. You'd fall right off the edge. ( makes a sharp gesture )
ZED: But what if it doesn't? What if it just goes on and on forever? Or what if it's round? ( he picks up a round
OH: ( SCOFFS ) Oh, yeah, that's plausible. Zed flings the rock away.
ZED: ( waves apologetically ) ( tries to cheer him up Will you stop with that crazy talk? We're at a feast. You love feasts. There's women, there's boar meat, there's an assortment of berries there's women Oh looks over at Eema. Zed picks up on it.
OH: ( tries to cheer him up Will you stop with that crazy talk? We're at a feast. You love feasts. There's women, there's boar meat, there's an assortment of berries there's women Oh looks over at Eema. Zed picks up on it.
ZED: Do it, man! Go dance for her.
OH: You think? They're playing the Jackal Dance. I don't do that one so well.
ZED: Are you kidding? Go! Jackal Oh summons his courage, gets up and crosses to where the girls are sitting. Zed makes subtle eye contact with Maya, waggles his eyebrows and licks his lips. She laughs and looks away. Oh starts dancing timidly right in front of Eema, subtly jerking his pelvis, trying to be cool. Eema just stares at him for a moment, then goes back to talking to her friends. Oh looks over at Zed for help. Zed mimes clonking her on the head. Oh picks up a wooden club and hits Eema right on the noggin. However, instead of submitting, she gets really pissed, stands up and decks him with one punch.
ZED: Excuse me, hunter coming through.
VILLAGERS: Hey! Wait your turn! There's a line here, buddy!
ZED: For your information I was in line and I just stepped out to chew some food for an elderly lady. Suddenly a SPEAR is thrust inches from his face, stopping him. It's Marlak, who towers over Zed. His cohort, ENMEBARAGESI, short and stout, stands beside him.
MARLAK: Enmebaragesi said he saw you in the garden with Maya.
ZED: Oh, really? And what if I called Enmebaragesi a liar?
ENMEBARAGESI: I'd kill you.
ZED: Calm down. I said "what if" it was a hypothetical. Marlak gets right in Zed's face.
MARLAK: Enmebaragesi doesn't lie. Villagers gather around them, Maya and Eema among them. Marlak puts his spear point to Zed's throat. MARLAK ( cont'd ) The truth!
MAYA: Zed, just admit it. You're just making it harder on yourself.
ZED: ( instantly annoyed ) No, you just made it harder on ( to Marlak ) Okay, fine, you got me. ( gingerly moves the spear
POINT ): Maya and I lay together on occasion. We're consenting adults and we have an adventurous sexual Maya looks shocked, and tries to signal Zed to shut up.
MARLAK: ( STUNNED ) You laid with my woman?
ZED: Isn't that what we're talking Maya rolls her eyes.
ENMEBARAGESI: No, I saw you eat the Forbidden Oh, that! Yeah! I did eat the fruit. I was just kidding about humping Maya. Marlak knocks Zed to the ground. The DRUMMING stops. Oh comes running over and gets between Marlak and Zed.
ZED: Oh, that! Yeah! I did eat the fruit. I was just kidding about humping Maya. Marlak knocks Zed to the ground. The DRUMMING stops. Oh comes running over and gets between Marlak and Zed.
OH: ( FORCEFUL ) Hey! What's going on? Marlak growls at him. OH ( cont'd ) ( quickly looks up at the
SKY ): Oooh, shooting star.
ZED: Look, Marlak, this is crazy. You're two of me. I'm not gonna fight you over a girl, okay? Zed starts to walk away but quickly pivots and throws a WILD HAYMAKER at Marlak who easily ducks it, and it hits an unsuspecting Enmebaragesi squarely in the nose. Zed ( cont'd ) ( to Enmebaragesi ) And let that be a lesson to your big friend- Marlak grabs Zed, lands two solid punches to Zed's mid- section, and then clocks him with a vicious right that sends him sprawling to the ground.
MARLAK: ( standing over Zed ) Your father was a great hunter, but you're like a girl. The hunters laugh.
ENMEBARAGESI: Good one, Marlak.
ANOTHER HUNTER: Now I kill you. He's about to spear Zed when suddenly the Shaman screams and jumps between them. The villagers step back as the Shaman howls an incantation and shakes his magic rattle at Zed.
MARLAK: Now I kill you. He's about to spear Zed when suddenly the Shaman screams and jumps between them. The villagers step back as the Shaman howls an incantation and shakes his magic rattle at Zed.
SHAMAN: ( leaning close to Zed ) We need to talk.
SHAMAN: You really ate the fruit?
ZED: One bite! What's the big deal?
SHAMAN: ( halfheartedly shakes a chicken-foot rattle at
HIM ): You don't eat the fruit! That's been the number one rule from the beginning of time. Since the Great Turtle climbed from the sea with the Earth on his back, drank the ocean, pooped out the mountains and the first man fell from the stars.
ZED: I've always had trouble with the Great Turtle Theory too many unexplained gaps.
SHAMAN: Whatever. You're screwed now.
ZED: Really? How screwed? Like I knew it was a rule but I'm a little fuzzy on the exact details.
SHAMAN: You're cursed, man, and if you stay here then we'll all be cursed. You have to leave.
ZED: Where am I supposed to go?
SHAMAN: Up to you. From now on you're completely on your own.
ZED: ( DEFIANT ) Oh, really?
SHAMAN: ( to Zed, re the hunters ) You should probably get going now. You better take this knife. He hands him a flint knife with a leather-wrapped handle. SHAMAN ( cont'd ) And some of the guys got together and they want you to have this bow. He hands him a strong hunter's bow.
ZED: I don't want to seem ungrateful or anything, but you wouldn't happen to have any arrows, would you? An arrow zips in and sticks in the post next to his head.
SHAMAN: ( to Zed ) You'd better get moving. Zed looks around at his fellow villagers, trying to summon what dignity he has left.
ZED: ( DEFIANT ) Okay, but before I go I just want to say something. I know I'm not the greatest hunter
ZED: Yes, or gatherer but there's got to be more to life than this ( to Hunters ) Kinda hard to concentrate with that rhythmic drumming, fellas. The Hunters keep the insistent beat, their gaze fixed on Zed. ZED ( cont'd ) ( rolls his eyes; "these guys are hopeless" ) Anyways, I'm going away, not because you're forcing me to which you are but because I choose to. Yes, I ate from the Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil major misunderstanding on my part and believe me I'm not recommending it unless you're interested in a very powerful laxative but it got me thinking about some pretty heavy stuff life questions, you know. So I'm out of here, and anyone who wants to join me is welcome. He looks around the circle and sees Maya. She sees Marlak staring at her and averts her eyes. ZED ( cont'd )
ANYONE: Zed looks at oh, who suddenly becomes very interested in an imaginary piece of loincloth lint. ZED ( cont'd ) ( looks directly at Oh ) I don't know where we're going or when we're going to get there, but I will lead the way ( he picks up a burning
TORCH ): lighting up the darkness pointing us in the right direction, and keeping us entertained with humorous anecdotes from my childhood. Now who's with me? He enthusiastically thrusts the torch in the air.
ME: ( to Oh ) better, in fact, because having a partner would just slow me down. Oh can't look at him. Zed shakes his head, failing to notice that the torch he's holding has ignited the roof of the hut next to him. The Shaman shouts and points at the now blazing roof. ZED ( cont'd ) They all stare as the fire quickly leaps from roof to roof. ZED ( cont'd ) I know there's a lesson in here somewhere. Any thoughts? The villagers scream and run off to try and save their huts. It's chaos.
MARLAK: ( raises his spear, to Zed ) Now you die. Marlak throws his spear and misses as Zed takes off running into the forest with the hunters right behind him and the whole village ablaze.
MARLAK: I see you.
ZED: ( long beat ) No, you don't.
MARLAK: Yes, I do.
ZED: How can you see me if I'm not here?
MARLAK: You're trying to trick me.
ZED: Okay, then tell me this who's standing right behind you?
MARLAK: ( nobody's fool ) You think I'm going to turn around and look, but I'm not. ( pulls his knife ) I'm going to gut you like a pig. He is about to plunge his knife into Zed when suddenly he is struck from behind by a heavy tree branch. He falls heavily, knocked senseless by Oh who is standing over him with the makeshift club. Zed sits up and smiles gratefully at Oh.
OH: I guess I'm with you.
ZED: Was it my speech?
OH: No, the fire. I lost everything.
ZED: But the speech was pretty good, right? I mean, even I was moved and I was the one speaking.
OH: Can we talk about this later? Oh pulls Zed to his feet, and they sneak off into the deep DISSOLVE TO: 9 EXT. A FOREST PATH - LATER THAT NIGHT 9 CRICKETS. Zed and Oh walk through the moonlit forest.
ZED: This is nice, out here, the two of ( SULLEN ) Yeah, it's great.
OH: ( SULLEN ) Yeah, it's great.
ZED: Come on, those hunters are idiots. In an hour they'll forget the whole I don't think they'll forget the You know what we should do? You and me should kill the biggest boar ever just huge! and take it back to the village. Just to show them. And we won't let anyone else eat it. They'll have to watch us eat it.
OH: I don't think they'll forget the You know what we should do? You and me should kill the biggest boar ever just huge! and take it back to the village. Just to show them. And we won't let anyone else eat it. They'll have to watch us eat it.
ZED: You know what we should do? You and me should kill the biggest boar ever just huge! and take it back to the village. Just to show them. And we won't let anyone else eat it. They'll have to watch us eat it.
OH: If it's that huge how would we carry it back?
ZED: ( CONSIDERING ) Fine, we'll just start with something small. A squirrel or Official White 22.
OH: Yeah, we'll make everyone watch us eat a squirrel. Will you get real? There's no going back! There's, nothing to go back to! It's just ( SCOFFS ) Yeah, like it's so hard to build a new hut. It's just a pile of sticks and dung
ZED: ( SCOFFS ) Yeah, like it's so hard to build a new hut. It's just a pile of sticks and dung
OH: ( SCOWLS ) You're a pile of sticks and dung. Suddenly, Zed stops and stands perfectly still.
ZED: ( through clenched teeth ) What are you doing? Zed makes a minimal gesture with his head. Oh looks up. A COUGAR crouches on a tree limb above them, poised to leap. Oh freezes. They talk like ventriloquists.
OH: What are you doing? Zed makes a minimal gesture with his head. Oh looks up. A COUGAR crouches on a tree limb above them, poised to leap. Oh freezes. They talk like ventriloquists.
ZED: Don't move a muscle.
OH: Will that work?
ZED: ( without moving his lips ) I don't know. There's two different opinions on this one. Some say run, some say don't.
OH: What are you going to do?
ZED: I'm going to RUN! He sprints off and the cougar pounces right on oh.
ZED: You really should put some maggots on those scratches. They look pretty deep.
OH: ( BITTER ) I just want to know why you told me not to move, and you ran.
ZED: Because I honestly thought he'd go for me. I thought I was doing you a favor. Apparently not Yeah, big favor.
OH: Yeah, big favor.
ZED: You didn't have to come with me, you know. I didn't ask you to Yes, you did! You looked right at me twice.
OH: Yes, you did! You looked right at me twice.
ZED: Yes, that's a technique of public speaking, but I didn't ask you specifically. You chose to come. You gotta take some responsibility for that. And there's no point coming if you're just gonna keep whining about every little cougar that attacks you. ( pulls the cooked rodent from the fire ) You want some or not?
OH: ( HUFFY ) No, eat your weasel. You deserve He turns his back to Zed, and starts sorting through the pile of sticks.
ZED: You making your own fire?
OH: No, arrows. We're going to need ( perks up ) You're still coming?
ZED: ( perks up ) You're still coming?
OH: ( RESIGNED ) Zed claps him on the back and hugs him exuberantly. Oh winces in pain.
ZED: ( GLOATING ) I knew it! Still think you're just gonna fall off the edge of the Official White 25.
OH: ( in amazement ) He takes a step forward, the rock shelf gives way beneath his feet and he falls a great distance, screaming all the way down, bouncing painfully off the big boulders, then a long, tumbling slide over sharp rocks and gravel to the bottom.
ZED: ( WINCES ) Oooh. - ( then calls out ) I'll go around! Wait for me!
ZED: Say what you want, but that was no accident. You don't see a pattern I see a pattern. Every time something terrible can happen to me, it does.
OH: I see a pattern. Every time something terrible can happen to me, it does.
ZED: Yeah, but why? Why'd the cougar go for you and not me? Why did you fall and I didn't? Hard to believe it's all just random. Think about
IT: J; avdganly MI , I ) ia htintI! f 1 inWROM m 11W, 10 looks around the forest clearing for subtle signs. ZED ( cont'd ) ( sniffing the air ) People more than one walking ( he guesses ) that way.
OH: ( looking around ) You think? There's about a thousand footprints here.
ZED: ( ignores him ) Yes! There! He drops to one knee and examines something in the bushes. Zed ( cont'd ) They stopped here to poop. Look.
OH: No, thank you.
ZED: Four men, maybe five. And a child or a small women maybe.
OH: ( a little disgusted ) ( poking at the evidence ) Looks like they had some nuts dried fruit some kind of green leafy vegetable
ZED: ( poking at the evidence ) Looks like they had some nuts dried fruit some kind of green leafy vegetable
OH: Okay! Enough! Can we just go? Maybe we can find where they peed. 14 Then Zed sees light through the trees and creeps 14 stealthily to the tree line. Oh creeps up beside him and they peer through the bushes. THREE COWS are grazing in a green pasture. Beyond it, well- tended fields of growing grain. Zed snaps into stalking mode, ducks down and silently signals Oh to be quiet and stay put.
ZED: ( WHISPERS ) This one's mine. He takes his bow, pulls an arrow from his quiver, and slowly draws the bow, taking deadly aim at one of the cows. He The blunt, pointless arrow hits the cow in the side and bounces off. The cow looks up.
ZED: ( getting painfully to his
FEET ): Yeah, well we're hunters.
OH: ( covering for himself ) He's a hunter. I'm more of a "maker." I made this loincloth, I do arrows I made a shelf unit for my hut
ZED: What do you guys do?
CAIN: You are called suck.
ABEL: My brother is angry because God looked on my sacrifice with favor.
CAIN: ( mimics him ) "God looked on my sacrifice with
FAVOR": ( to Oh ) Okay, is he a total suck or what?
OH: Well, it's hard to say we just
MET: Why are you dragging them into this? What do they know? They're ( OFFENDED ) Hey! Easy!
ABEL: Why are you dragging them into this? What do they know? They're ( OFFENDED ) Hey! Easy!
ZED: ( OFFENDED ) Hey! Easy!
CAIN: ( to Abel ) You think you're so superior to everyone else.
ABEL: Superior-er than you.
CAIN: Really? Let's see how good you are at getting your ass kicked. ( shoves him )
ABEL: Yeah? Bring it! ( shoves him back )
ZED: Okay, boys, that's enough. We just want to
CAIN: ( won't let it go ) No! This smug asshole insulted you and I want him to take it back.
ZED: We're not really that insulted
CAIN: ( pushes Abel hard ) Take it back!
ABEL: ( pushes back ) Make me! Zed steps between them, trying to make peace.
ZED: Boys, boys! You're brothers! Let's just relax and Cain uses the distraction to sneak-punch Abel and the fight is on. They start throwing wild punches, then clinch and wrestle each other to the ground.
OH: Shouldn't we do something?
ZED: Just let them settle it. Cain picks up a good-size rock and strikes Abel on the head with all his might. Abel falls heavily to the ground and lies there, not moving. Cain stands over him, breathing ZED ( cont'd )
CAIN: ( turns on him sharply, still holding the bloody
ROCK ): Cain stares at Abel, still inert on the ground.
ZED: Cain stares at Abel, still inert on the ground.
CAIN: He's all right. Probably just
RESTING: ( humoring him ) Probably just tuckered out from the ( looking around nervously ) ( MORE ) CAIN ( cont'd ) Maybe I should throw some dirt on him keep him warm 'til he wakes He starts kicking dirt over Abel's body. CAIN ( cont'd ) ( getting worried ) This is bad. This is really bad. We're in serious trouble.
OH: ( humoring him ) Probably just tuckered out from the ( looking around nervously ) ( MORE ) CAIN ( cont'd ) Maybe I should throw some dirt on him keep him warm 'til he wakes He starts kicking dirt over Abel's body. CAIN ( cont'd ) ( getting worried ) This is bad. This is really bad. We're in serious trouble.
CAIN: ( looking around nervously ) ( MORE ) CAIN ( cont'd ) Maybe I should throw some dirt on him keep him warm 'til he wakes He starts kicking dirt over Abel's body. CAIN ( cont'd ) ( getting worried ) This is bad. This is really bad. We're in serious trouble.
ZED: Hey! What do you mean "we"? I don't want to play the blame game, but you're the one who hit him.
CAIN: ( turns on them ) You could've stopped me! There's two of you and only one of me.
ZED: We didn't know you were going to kill him
CAIN: You calling me a murderer? ( he clutches the rock )
ZED: Did I say that?
CAIN: It was an accident! ( to Oh ) Right! You were holding the rock and he accidentally ran into it really hard with his head.
OH: Right! You were holding the rock and he accidentally ran into it really hard with his head.
CAIN: ( calming down ) Okay yeah good. But it might be better if we don't mention the "accident" to anyone. People might get the wrong idea. Understand?
OH: Oh, yeah, people could so easily misinterpret that.
ZED: ( SHRUGS ) Why even bring it up?
CAIN: ( NODS ) I like you guys. You're all right. Why don't you come with me? Have supper with the family.
ZED: Unfortunately we already have dinner plans.
CAIN: I think you should come with me.
OH: ( his idea ) why don't we go with you?
ZED: What are the big round things for?
CAIN: They're wheels, numbskull. They make the cart roll.
ZED: ( blown away ) Wow! That is like the greatest invention since the vagina. Cain whips the oxen and they lumber forward. Oh screams as the HEAVY WHEELS ROLL OVER HIS FEET.
THE CART: with them riding on it, plodding slowly into a FARMING HAMLET,°a cluster of small, roughly plastered mud houses with thatched roofs. ADAM, dour, hard-working and long-suffering, but still strong and upright, trudges home with a metal scythe over his shoulder. He could be Max Von Sydow.
ADAM: ( hailing Cain ) Cain, my son!
CAIN: Hail, Father. Cain stops the cart and dismounts with Zed and Oh. CAIN ( cont'd ) Can these guys stay for supper? ( off Adam's questioning
LOOK ): I bring strangers who would sojourn with us this night. Cain turns to Zed and Oh and furtively mimes an elaborate lip- sewing gesture, ancient precursor to the modern lip-zipper.
ADAM: Greetings, strangers. I am called Adam and you are welcome to share the fruits of our toil.
ZED: Thanks, but I'm kind of staying away from fruit for the time being. Zed gives Cain a subtle, acquiescent nod as Adam ushers them into his crude dwelling.
ADAM: ( to Cain ) Where is thy brother, Abel?
CAIN: ( badly overplaying ) Abel? Haven't seen him. I thought he was with you. ( to Zed and Oh ) You guys see him? They shake their heads and cough nervously.
ADAM: ( to Cain ) Your sister Lilith said she saw him in the field with you.
CAIN: I think that was yesterday.
ADAM: No, this day. She said you both made offerings.
CAIN: That might've been Boaz-
ADAM: No, you and Abel. She said it looked like you were arguing.
CAIN: Hey, we're brothers, we argue sometimes- it's not that big a Official White 34.
ADAM: And his flock was untended in the
PASTURE: ( EXPLODES ) Okay! What am I his keeper? Get off my back, will you? He smashes his plate against the wall and storms out. An awkward silence as Zed and Oh exchange guilty looks.
CAIN: ( EXPLODES ) Okay! What am I his keeper? Get off my back, will you? He smashes his plate against the wall and storms out. An awkward silence as Zed and Oh exchange guilty looks.
ADAM: I fear the worst for Abel. I am sorely vexed.
ZED: Yeah, that's got to be pretty A Bergmanesque gloom fills the hovel as Adam muses sullenly on his sorry circumstances.
ADAM: For my sin the ground is cursed. Thorns and thistles does it sprout for us, and we are doomed to toil all the days of our lives. For as the Lord has commanded, by the sweat of your brow shall you get bread to eat until you return to the ground from which you were taken. For dust you are, and to dust shall you return.
ZED: Wow. That's kind of a downer isn't It's the way of the world.
ADAM: It's the way of the world.
ZED: Boy, I hope not.
ADAM: ( rises abruptly ) You are welcome to stay the night and lay with my daughter Lilith. Zed looks at the luscious Lilith, then back at Adam.
ZED: I'm waiting for the punchline.
ADAM: She is without a husband, and as the Lord has said, thou shalt be fruitful and multiply. Lilith nods demurely and exits through a curtain. Zed starts to follow her out.
OH: Hey! What about me?
ADAM: You may share the bed of my son Yeah, there you go. ( he exits ) Oh looks at Seth.
ZED: Yeah, there you go. ( he exits ) Oh looks at Seth.
SETH: I multiplied with a sheep. ( Oh just stares at him ) My thingie smells like lamb chops.
LILITH: ( making room on the cot ) My bed is small but you're welcome to share it. It's the way of my ( lying down beside her ) And that's a good way to be. In fact, I'm kind of surprised a pretty girl like you is sleeping alone anyway. I would've thought guys would be lined up at the door.
ZED: ( lying down beside her ) And that's a good way to be. In fact, I'm kind of surprised a pretty girl like you is sleeping alone anyway. I would've thought guys would be lined up at the door.
LILITH: I don't like men.
ZED: ( moving closer ) Maybe you just haven't met the right one.
LILITH: I like girls.
ZED: ( SUAVE ) So we have that in common
LILITH: ( stares at him for a beat ) I'm attracted to women.
ZED: ( a beat ) I don't even know what that means. What does that mean?
LILITH: I like to have sex with other ( stares at her for a long
ZED: ( stares at her for a long
MOMENT ): I'm really not getting this. Lilith shakes her head, turns away from him, and pulls up her blanket. Zed shrugs and rolls over to sleep. They lie there quietly in the dark for a long beat. Then Zed ( cont'd ) You're kidding! Whoa! That's 19 INT. SETH'S ROOM - SAME TIME 19 Oh is lying next to Seth, wide-awake, trying to stay as far away from him as possible.
SETH: Oooh, listen to this one. Seth lifts his knees to his chest and farts a surprisingly long cadenza.
OH: That's really good.
SETH: Want to see a trick?
OH: Do I have to?
CAIN: It's been the same damn thing my whole life. ( swings the axe thwack! ) "Why can't you be more like Abel?" ( thwack! ) "Oh, your sacrifice was good, too, but Abel's was wow!" ( thwack! )
OH: ( trying to change the
SUBJECT ): Your brother Seth is an interesting guy. Did you know he can put his penis in his mouth? Adam and Zed come out of his dwelling. KINSMEN from other dwellings start gathering.
ADAM: Yeah, hey where's everybody To look for Abel.
CAIN: Yeah, hey where's everybody To look for Abel.
ADAM: To look for Abel.
CAIN: ( MUTTERS ) Good luck.
ADAM: What did you say?
CAIN: ( louder, mock sincerity ) I said good luck. I'm really worried about him. He turns aside and makes a goofy sarcastic face for Oh's You're not coming?
ADAM: You're not coming?
CAIN: Yeah, I am. I just have to finish toiling over here, then I'm right behind you. Adam and the others hurry off, and as soon as they're gone, Cain rushes over and starts harnessing the oxen to the cart. CAIN ( cont'd ) ( to Zed and Oh ) Now listen, I'm getting out of here, and you better come with me. I have a feeling they're going to try and blame this whole "Abel- killing-thing" on you.
ZED: Why would they blame us?
CAIN: Because when they find him and his head is all bashed in, they're going to start pointing fingers, and you guys are drifters, so they'll put two and two together and that makes He stares expectantly at Zed and Oh. CAIN ( cont'd ) Four! It makes four! Now stop asking so many questions and hop on. We gotta get out of here! He urgently whips the oxen and they climb aboard as the cart lumbers forward.
ADAM: ( BITTERLY ) ( to the others ) After him! The farmers shout and race back to the hamlet.
CAIN: ( to the others ) After him! The farmers shout and race back to the hamlet.
CAIN: ( urgently, to Zed and Oh ) They're gaining on us! Zed and Oh look back.
THEIR POV: The other oxcarts are a hundred yards back, "chasing" them at maybe two miles per hour. Cain whips his oxen and they step up the pace to 3 MPH.
CAIN: ( GLEEFUL ) Hah! They'll never catch us now! An aerial view shows Cain's cart slowly pulling away from his Suddenly a bolt of lightning splits the bright blue sky and strikes Cain right on the forehead, knocking him back into the cart. He sits up stunned, with a still-smoking, jagged burn mark on his forehead.
ZED: Look at all these people! And this Oh approaches a bakery stand and stares hungrily at the ( to the Merchant ) Can I have one of those? He reaches for a loaf but the MERCHANT strikes his hand with a cane. OH ( cont'd ) Two silver pieces.
OH: ( to the Merchant ) Can I have one of those? He reaches for a loaf but the MERCHANT strikes his hand with a cane. OH ( cont'd ) Two silver pieces.
MERCHANT: Two silver pieces.
CAIN: ( HUNGRY ) We're gonna need some money.
ZED: Yeah, we're gonna need money. ( an afterthought ) What's money? They see a crowd at the center of the market gathered around a raised platform. SLAVES IN SHACKLES are lined up on the raised wooden platform while CUSTOMERS examine those waiting to be auctioned. The AUCTIONEER brings up a fnuscular male slave in a ZED ( cont'd ) It's Marlak! Marlak's hands are bound and he's restrained by a chain attached to a thick leather collar around his neck.
AUCTIONEER: ( addresses the crowd ) Next up, an unusual item looks like a Caucasian he's big, he's strong, he's a good breeder, so I'm going to start at 100 gold minas. Do I hear 100? As the bidding starts, Zed spots Maya, his sister Eema, and Enmebaragesi among the chained-up slaves waiting to be sold. Zed and Oh push their way through the crowd and go to them.
ZED: ( amazed to see them ) Eema! Maya! The women embrace him with relief and excitement.
OH: ( SHEEPISH ) Hi, Eema.
EEMA: What happened? How did you get Official white 42.
ZED: What happened? How did you get Official white 42.
MAYA: Well, after the fire ( she shoots him an accusing look ) ) the hill tribes raided the village. The men fought them but they were too many. They took us captive, marched us to the sea, then traded us to the boat people who brought us here.
OH: ( to Eema ) Are you all right? Did they rape ( SHRUGS ) Just a little. Zed and Oh look at her curiously. The SLAVE TRADER sees them talking to Eema and approaches.
EEMA: ( SHRUGS ) Just a little. Zed and Oh look at her curiously. The SLAVE TRADER sees them talking to Eema and approaches.
SLAVE TRADER: You interested in some slaves?
ZED: ( like a prospective buyer ) Yeah, this one looks pretty good He starts prodding, poking and squeezing Maya's arm like he's buying fruit. Oh takes the opportunity to fondle Eema's breasts. She punches him. Zed ( cont'd ) Ooh, feisty! So how does this work if we want them? The slave trader notes Zed's peasant clothes.
SLAVE TRADER: You have money?
ZED: ( CAGEY ) Well, that depends on what you mean by money?
SLAVE TRADER: Look, pal, money talks and bullshit walks. I don't have time for looky- Official white 43. Cain steps up and intercedes.
CAIN: ( GRANDLY ) Perhaps I can help. ( confidentially to Zed and
OH ): Let me talk to the guy. Maybe I can make a deal with him. You guys wait here. Cain puts his arm around the slave trader's shoulder and walks him away. CAIN ( cont'd ) ( to the slave trader ) So what are we lookin' at here? From a distance, Zed and Oh watch them talking, but can't hear what they're saying.
OH: ( to Eema ) What an amazing coincidence running into you and Maya and them.
ZED: You still think it's all just a coincidence? All of us here right now, at this particular place, at this particular time?
OH: ( THINKS ) I don't know. Why do you think?
ZED: I'm not sure yet, but I'm starting to believe that everything happens for a reason. Like, why did I eat the forbidden fruit?
OH: To get laid?
MAYA: Official White 44. Okay, that might have been what I was thinking at the time, but what if some omnipotent force put the fruit there because I was supposed to eat it?
ZED: Official White 44. Okay, that might have been what I was thinking at the time, but what if some omnipotent force put the fruit there because I was supposed to eat it?
OH: which omnipotent force?
ZED: What do you mean "which" omnipotent force? How many omnipotent forces could there be?
OH: I don't know! What's "omnipotent" Work with me I'm just speculating here. Let's call this force "God"; and let's say this "God" is controlling everything. Maybe God wanted me to have the knowledge of good and evil.
ZED: Work with me I'm just speculating here. Let's call this force "God"; and let's say this "God" is controlling everything. Maybe God wanted me to have the knowledge of good and evil.
OH: Why would he want that?
MAYA: How do you know God's a "He?" Zed rolls his eyes.
ZED: Don't you get what I'm saying? What if we've been chosen?
MAYA: You think we've been chosen by God?
ZED: Well, no offense, but it's possible that I was chosen and you all just happened to be there.
OH: Why would God choose you? Why wouldn't he choose Marlak? He's Official White 45.
ZED: A chosen doesn't need to be strong. I'm big this way. ( points to his temples )
OH: You do have a fat face.
ZED: Not my face, my brain. It's enormous. I'm the smartest guy in the village.
OH: ( SCOFFS ) You're not even I'm smarter than ( to ANOTHER VILLAGER ) Which one of us is smarter?
ZED: ( to ANOTHER VILLAGER ) Which one of us is smarter?
VILLAGER: You're both idiots!
ZED: Oh yeah, then why are we free and you're chained up?
VILLAGER: Because of you?
CAIN: ( calls them over ) Hey! Come here. I think we worked something out.
ZED: ( confidently, to Maya ) Sit tight. I'm going to get you out of here. Do you trust me?
MAYA: ( HEDGING ) I want to trust you.
ZED: Fair enough. She gives him an encouraging hug, then Zed and Oh cross to Cain and the slave trader.
ZED: I never trusted that guy.
OH: ( SARCASTIC ) Why? Just 'cause he murdered his brother and got hit by lightning? They are pushed to the front of the platform.
SLAVE TRADER: ( to the crowd ) All right! Next up is a twofer I'm selling them as a pair I know they don't look like much but I'm starting the bidding at sixty gold minas. Do I hear sixty?
ZED: ( to Oh ) It's not like I want to be a slave or anything, but this is Official white 47.
SLAVE TRADER: Thirty-five? Thirty?
ZED: ( SHOUTS ) Come on, people! We're a steal at They probably don't know how smart you think you are. Finally, a Bedouin SHEIK raises his giraffe-tail fly whisk and waves it at the slave trader.
OH: They probably don't know how smart you think you are. Finally, a Bedouin SHEIK raises his giraffe-tail fly whisk and waves it at the slave trader.
SLAVE TRADER: Yes! Sold to Sheikh Hassan for 30 gold minas! ( to Zed and Oh ) Have a good time in the salt mines, CUT TO: 27 EXT. DESERT - LATER THAT DAY 27 A small CARAVAN OF CAMELS AND DONKEYS loaded with trade goods moves across the arid wasteland. The effete SHEIKH rides the lead camel, protected from the blistering sun by a colorful canopy. A FEW ARMED BEDOUIN GUARDS ride alongside. Bringing up the rear is A LARGE FOUR-WHEELED CART DRAWN BY HORSES, basically a cage on wheels into which TWENTY NEWLY PURCHASED SLAVES have been crammed, jammed together like Zed and Oh are in the middle of the body pile, literally cheek by jowl with the other slaves, barely able to move. I Eema is right next to Oh, her body pressed tight against his. Oh shifts around, repositioning his arms and body trying to get more comfortable and give Eema a little space, but he just ends up touching her even more.
OH: ( EMBARRASSED ) Excuse me I'm sorry ( his hand gets stuck between her breasts ) That's not good He jerks his hand away, elbowing Marlak in the face.
MAYA: For you maybe.
ZED: Look, I want you to know I blame myself for everything that So does everybody else.
MAYA: So does everybody else.
MARLAK: ( over his shoulder ) Get away from my woman!
ZED: ( IRRITATED ) I don't think that's going to be possible. And I told you before, she's not "your woman."
MARLAK: I'll kill you! Marlak starts muscling and squirming his way through the body pile trying to get to Zed.
RANDOM SLAVE: ( MEEKLY ) Suddenly Zed feels Marlak's hands around his neck, grabbing him from behind. Zed struggles but Marlak manages to pull him into a full headlock, forcing Zed's face into his hairy ( MUFFLED ) Oh is vaguely aware of the fight going on but can't move.
ZED: ( MUFFLED ) Oh is vaguely aware of the fight going on but can't move.
OH: ( calling to Zed ) Hold on! I'm coming! Oh tries to maneuver to Zed, but can't move an inch. OH ( CONT'D ) ( cont'd ) If everyone could just move to the right. Please? Thank you in advance for your cooperation. ( then, giving up hope ) You can do it, Zed! Use his weight against him!
BEDOUIN: ( shouts at the slaves ) Knock it off! Don't make me come in there!
ZED: ( MASHED ) I'd like to see you try. The Bedouin is just about to respond when suddenly A METAL TIPPED ARROW FLIES IN AND PIERCES HIS THROAT. He drops to the sand, dead.
SARGON: ( shouts an order ) Take the slaves! Marlak starts for Zed but two soldiers ride up and throw a heavy restraining net over him. Zed grabs oh and takes off running over the nearest sand Sargon watches them flee.
A SOLDIER: Sir, shall I pursue them?
SARGON: No. Let the desert have them. They won't get far.
SARGON: Tend to the slaves. We leave for Sodom before daybreak.
GUARD: Yes, sir.
ZED: ( WHISPERS ) I wonder who they are. Their hats are really great, aren't they?
OH: Their hats? I'm sorry, but when that one guy cut the other guy's head off, my first thought wasn't, "Gee, what a great hat."
ZED: It wasn't my very first thought, but I'd be lying if I said it wasn't up there.
OH: How are we going to rescue anybody? They're killers!
ZED: ( WILY ) Patience, my friend. Even killers have to sleep sometime. He keeps a sharp, wakeful eye on the enemy camp.
ZED: ( SCRATCHING ) Well, that was refreshing. How'd you sleep?
OH: ( YAWNS ) Not that well. I think I was over- Then Zed suddenly remembers Maya. He looks and sees that the soldiers and slaves are long gone.
ZED: He leaps to his feet, looks around desperately, and sees nothing but a vast wasteland in every direction.
OH: Now where do we go? Zed sniffs the air, puts his ear to the ground, and tastes the sand.
ZED: I have no idea.
OH: ( too weak to move ) Why do I listen to you? Now we're going to starve to death or die of Will you stop being so negative? I got your back, man. Who saved you from those lions when you were a baby? They were going to pounce, had you surrounded. Took the mama lion BAM! kneed her right in the face. Papa lion comes flying at me BAM! dropped an elbow, knocked his ass out.
ZED: Will you stop being so negative? I got your back, man. Who saved you from those lions when you were a baby? They were going to pounce, had you surrounded. Took the mama lion BAM! kneed her right in the face. Papa lion comes flying at me BAM! dropped an elbow, knocked his ass out.
OH: You know, I've asked people about that and no one else seems to remember it.
ZED: Yeah, because nobody else was there. You're lucky I was walking ( THEN ) Okay, it's possible I dreamed that but who practically raised you after your father was dragged off by those raccoons? Not a dignified ( practically delirious ) He was a small man. Oh collapses face down in the sand. Pull back to reveal that they are surrounded by hungry jackals, vultures and hyenas.
OH: ( practically delirious ) He was a small man. Oh collapses face down in the sand. Pull back to reveal that they are surrounded by hungry jackals, vultures and hyenas.
ZED: We've got to keep moving. ( hauls Oh to his feet ) I've got you, buddy just like He puts Oh over his shoulder and stumbles on.
ISAAC: Hey, Dad? We making a burnt Yes, Isaac. As God has commanded Official White 54.
ABRAHAM: Yes, Isaac. As God has commanded Official White 54.
ISAAC: ( CONFUSED ) I don't see the sheep.
ABRAHAM: The Lord will provide the sheep. Abraham takes a cord and starts tying Isaac's hands together.
ISAAC: ( NERVOUSLY ) Uh is this like a magic trick? Without another word Abraham takes strong hold of Isaac and lifts him up onto the firewood. ISAAC ( cont'd ) ( really scared now ) Okay, if this is because I didn't clean up my tent, you can stop now. I get it. Then Abraham pulls a long slaughtering knife from beneath his ISAAC ( cont'd )
STOP!: Abraham and Isaac both turn to see Zed and Oh step out from behind the rocks. Their clothes are tattered and they are burnt raw by the sun. ZED ( cont'd ) What are you doing to that kid?
ABRAHAM: ( INNOCENTLY ) Official White 55.
ZED: What do you mean, nothing? You were just going to kill him!
ABRAHAM: No, I was going to sacrifice him. There's a difference.
ZED: ( indicating Isaac ) Not to him, I'm guessing. Isaac nods gratefully.
ABRAHAM: By what right do you interfere? Art thou an angel of the Lord?
ZED: ( good question ) What do you think?
ABRAHAM: ( nods sagely ) Verily, thou wast sent to stay my hand by the Eternal one, blessed be ( NODS ) Whatever you just said. Oh helps Isaac off the altar stone and unties him.
ZED: ( NODS ) Whatever you just said. Oh helps Isaac off the altar stone and unties him.
ISAAC: ( confidentially to Oh ) He's nuts! I'm telling you he's totally lost it.
ABRAHAM: ( to Zed ) I am Abraham, son of Terah of the house of Nahor.
ZED: I am Zed and this is Oh, sons of people you wouldn't know.
ABRAHAM: The tents of my kinsmen lie just beyond. There will you find all that you desire. Come.
ABRAHAM: ( to the assembly ) My brothers, let us give thanks unto God for staying my hand on the mountain this day.
ISAAC: ( humoring him ) Best dad in all the land, everyone!
THE KINSMEN: ( a ritual response, in
UNISON ): Praise be to God, hallowed be His And for the bounty which He hath bestowed unto us.
ABRAHAM: And for the bounty which He hath bestowed unto us.
THE KINSMEN: ( in unison ) He hath increased our wealth and blessed us with His loving Zed and Oh mutter along, trying to fit in.
ABRAHAM: Friends, whence comest thou? Zed and Oh look at each other blankly.
ISAAC: ( HELPFULLY ) He wants to know where you're from.
ABRAHAM: ( SUSPICIOUS ) Thou comest not from the cities of the plain? From Sodom or Gomorrah? Zed perks up at the mention of Sodom, recalling the destination of the soldiers who took Maya and the others.
ZED: Sodom and Gomorrah? Never been there. But I've heard of them.
OH: Are they nice?
ABRAHAM: The Lord has cursed them for their ( nods gravely ) i didn't know that. What kind of abomination are we talking about?
ZED: ( nods gravely ) i didn't know that. What kind of abomination are we talking about?
ABRAHAM: They bow down before false Gods and worship graven images.
ZED: ( clicks his tongue ) The men of the city are weak and soft, fat with rich food, intoxicated by strong drink.
ABRAHAM: The men of the city are weak and soft, fat with rich food, intoxicated by strong drink.
ZED: ( sounds good to him ) Really. Tell me more.
ABRAHAM: Their women are whores; their shameless lust knows no bounds. They flaunt their flesh without shame and any man may have knowledge of them.
OH: ( he's sold ) And where exactly are those cities?
ZED: ( off Abraham's stern look ) We just want to know so we can avoid them.
ABRAHAM: ( FIERCELY ) Walk not the path of Sodom! For surely will the Lord send his holy fire to destroy the city and all who dwell within, to smite them and all their seed for their iniquity.
ZED: ( CONCERNED ) When do you think all this smiting is going to go down? We may have some friends there.
ABRAHAM: ( getting up ) Accompany me. Abraham sweeps out of the tent. Zed and Oh jump to their feet and follow. Isaac tags along.
ZED: Abraham, I'm a little worried about the city being destroyed.
ABRAHAM: Their fate is sealed. But for my faith and devotion, the self-same God has given unto me the whole of this land, from the Jordan to the Negev, from the river of Egypt to the great Euphrates. This did He grant to me and my seed. He raises his arms and spreads them wide.
ZED: ( IMPRESSED ) This is all your land?
ABRAHAM: For eternity.
ISAAC: ( SCOFFS ) Yeah, God just forgot to tell anyone else. we're having a war with someone like every five ( scowls at him ) I and my kinsmen have vanquished our enemies by the mighty hand of the Lord, praised be He. Zed and Oh fake their way through a ritual response.
ABRAHAM: ( scowls at him ) I and my kinsmen have vanquished our enemies by the mighty hand of the Lord, praised be He. Zed and Oh fake their way through a ritual response.
ZED: His name is praise and love his whole graciousness
OH: of his wealthy bounty. Abraham gets a strange faraway look in his eyes.
ABRAHAM: Therefore, to signify my Covenant with the One True God, on this night will I circumcise the flesh of my foreskin, and of you and every male who dwells hereby.
ISAAC: Here we go again
ABRAHAM: we will grasp the foreskins of our penises and cut therefrom the extra ( AGHAST ) I'm not sure I have any extra.
ZED: ( AGHAST ) I'm not sure I have any extra.
OH: Couldn't we could just get our ears ( aside to Zed ) Okay, what did I tell you nuts?
ISAAC: ( aside to Zed ) Okay, what did I tell you nuts?
ZED: You know, Abe, it's late, and we've all had a lot to drink, and I know this whole foreskin thing sounds like a good idea now, but you may just want to sleep on it. we could always cut 'em off in the morning, but if we do it now, there's just no putting it back on later.
ABRAHAM: No. So it shall be written, so it shall be done. ( to Isaac ) Get my big knife. Zed and Oh both reflexively cover their crotches.
OH: You have any idea where we're To the city. I have to find Maya.
ZED: To the city. I have to find Maya.
OH: The city! He said God's going to smite them with holy fire!
ZED: And you're going to listen to him? You think he's more chosen than me?
OH: He seemed to know what he was talking about.
ZED: Yes, and he also wanted to give his dick a little trim.
ISAAC: ( out of breath ) I'm coming with you.
ZED: You don't even know where we're You're going to Sodom, right?
ISAAC: You're going to Sodom, right?
ZED: No. Your dad specifically said Sodom and Gomorrah were evil.
ISAAC: Yeah, whatever. If I show you how to get there, will you buy me a bottle of wine?
ZED: No! I told you, that's not where we're going.
ISAAC: Fine. Then we'll just stand here.
ZED: They stand there for less than a beat. ZED ( cont'd ) Okay, you win. Take us to Sodom. Isaac takes a couple of steps to the top of a rise and points off in the distance.
THEIR POV: Shining in the moonlight, the magnificent city of Sodom set atop a broad hill surrounded by high walls.
ZED: I knew it was right around here.
ISAAC: Me and my friends sneak in on the weekends. We hang around, pick up on the babes, drink some wine, get wasted on killer hash
ZED: You shouldn't be smoking either.
ISAAC: Thanks, Grandpa, but I've been smoking for four harvests, so I think I'm okay.
OH: Gee, they're not open. We should probably come back later.
ISAAC: You just have to knock. They always let me in. ( to Oh ) Go ahead.
OH: Me? Why do I have to knock? What if we're waking somebody up? Let's just get out of here.
ZED: Where? Back to the penis-cutter? Besides, Eema and Maya might be in there. You want to get them out before the city's destroyed, don't Isaac impatiently grabs a big rock and starts banging on the ( SHOUTING ) Hey! Anybody there? Hello? Suddenly Zed and Oh are yanked off their feet from behind and slammed into the wall by helmeted sentries. Isaac quickly runs away.
ISAAC: ( SHOUTING ) Hey! Anybody there? Hello? Suddenly Zed and Oh are yanked off their feet from behind and slammed into the wall by helmeted sentries. Isaac quickly runs away.
SENTRY: ( shouts at him ) Isaac stops a safe distance away and turns back to taunt the You gonna make me? ( dancing and dodging like a boxer ) You and what army?
ISAAC: You gonna make me? ( dancing and dodging like a boxer ) You and what army?
ZED: ( shouts to Isaac ) Get help! Tell your father!
ISAAC: ( shouts back ) ( MORE ) ISAAC ( cont'd ) Like I'm really gonna tell my father I came with you to Sodom. So long, suckers! He takes off running.
ZED: ( to Oh ) I kinda get why his dad wanted to kill him. The sentries drag them through a small door cut into a corner of the city gates.
FIRST GUARD: What's this now?
SENTRY: They were banging on the gate. Hebrews, from the look of them.
ZED: We're not really Hebrews The guard smacks him in the mouth. ZED ( cont'd ) Okay. Lesson learned. No talking.
SENTRY: Should we wake the Sergeant?
FIRST GUARD: You don't want to do that. He gets pretty mean when you wake him.
OH: Meaner than this? The sentry grabs Oh's nipple and twists. Oh SCREAMS loudly. The guards freeze at the sound of his scream and look nervously to a closed door at one end of the room.
SERGEANT: ( from behind the door,
ROARS ): BLOODY HELL! WHAT'S GOING ON OUT Zed and Oh exchange worried looks. Then the door flies open and the SERGEANT, a huge, angry, sadistic rhino of a man, fills the door frame. SERGEANT ( cont'd ) Who the hell screamed? They all point at Oh. SERGEANT ( cont'd ) ( glowers at him ) I thought it was a woman. He lumbers over and gets his face very close to Oh's. SERGEANT ( cont'd ) You don't look like a woman, but maybe you want to kiss me anyway. Is that right? You want to kiss Oh turns away from his foul breath. The sergeant grabs Oh by the throat and practically lifts him off the ground. SERGEANT ( cont'd ) By morning you'll be sorry you were Don't have to wait 'til morning.
THERE!: Zed and Oh exchange worried looks. Then the door flies open and the SERGEANT, a huge, angry, sadistic rhino of a man, fills the door frame. SERGEANT ( cont'd ) Who the hell screamed? They all point at Oh. SERGEANT ( cont'd ) ( glowers at him ) I thought it was a woman. He lumbers over and gets his face very close to Oh's. SERGEANT ( cont'd ) You don't look like a woman, but maybe you want to kiss me anyway. Is that right? You want to kiss Oh turns away from his foul breath. The sergeant grabs Oh by the throat and practically lifts him off the ground. SERGEANT ( cont'd ) By morning you'll be sorry you were Don't have to wait 'til morning.
OH: Don't have to wait 'til morning.
ZED: Hey! Why don't you pick on someone your own size? The sergeant drops Oh and turns to Zed. ZED ( cont'd ) ( quickly backpedaling ) Which would be difficult since there are probably very few people around who actually are your size He smacks Zed hard on the side of the head.
SERGEANT: ( to another guard ) Get my big stick. I'll deal with the fat one first.
ZED: ( INSULTED ) Relatively fat one. I wouldn't be talking about fat, if I were you. Another blow from the sergeant. ZED ( cont'd ) Right. Enough said. The sergeant rips open Zed's shirt exposing his back, then steps up behind Oh and does the same. A guard hands him a lethal-looking bat studded with sharp spikes.
SERGEANT: ( to Zed and Oh ) Welcome to Sodom. As he takes a big backswing, Zed and Oh shut their eyes and prepare for the worst.
CAIN: Wait! I know these guys!
CAIN: He embraces them. They look confused and doubtful, but CUT TO: 40 EXT. CITY STREET - NIGHT - LATER 40 Cain leads them through the narrow crowded streets. People avoid Cain's gaze and part like the Red Sea to allow him Official White 67.
CAIN: You know, you guys are lucky that sergeant is a friend of mine. I let him sodomize me once right after I got here and he's been real nice to me ever since.
OH: ( SARCASTIC ) Yeah, thanks for saving us. What are you going to do to us now? Cain stops and looks at them.
CAIN: wait a second. Do I detect a tone All right, honestly? You did sell us into slavery.
ZED: All right, honestly? You did sell us into slavery.
CAIN: ( instantly offended ) Whoa whoa whoa! Hold a grudge much? That was like a fortnight That was way less than a fortnight. Half a fortnight, maybe.
ZED: That was way less than a fortnight. Half a fortnight, maybe.
CAIN: Give me a break! I was dealing with the death of a close family member and I needed some space. But now I realize that you guys are like my brothers. And it's so rare to find a brother that you love. He embraces them.
CAIN: ( EXUBERANT ) Now, you guys hungry? Watch this. Cain walks up to a food vendor's stall and stares menacingly at the VENDOR. He raises his fist. The vendor cowers.
ZED: Check out that woman across the street! She's looking at us. The prostitute smiles at them as she sensuously peels a banana, then slides the whole thing unbroken into her mouth.
OH: We are so in! She's eye-knowing us like crazy.
CAIN: You're gonna love Sodom. Trust me. It's crazy. This morning, I almost got a handie behind that pita Well, I kind of have a girlfriend not a girlfriend, yet, but a girl I like, so I shouldn't
OH: Well, I kind of have a girlfriend not a girlfriend, yet, but a girl I like, so I shouldn't
CAIN: Hey, what happens in Sodom, stays in Sodom. He takes a jug of wine from the stall of a WINE MERCHANT. The merchant just bows obsequiously and keeps his mouth shut. CAIN ( cont'd ) You know, if you guys are staying you should join the guards. The pay's not great, but there's tons of perks. I'm telling you, it's the only way to go. Cain grabs a piece of candy from a SMALL CHILD and stuffs it in his mouth. The child starts crying, Cain kicks her in the ass and she runs away.
OH: ( to the child ) Come on, I'll introduce you to the CUT TO: 41 EXT. BARRACKS - NEXT MORNING 41 A military drum roll and the blare of trumpets rouse the garrison. GUARDSMEN come double-timing out of the barracks and hurry to line up in formation. Last to emerge are Zed and Oh who step leisurely out the door now dressed as Royal Guards. Zed actually looks dashing, but Oh's breastplate is too big and his helmet keeps slipping down over his eyes.
CAIN: Come on, I'll introduce you to the CUT TO: 41 EXT. BARRACKS - NEXT MORNING 41 A military drum roll and the blare of trumpets rouse the garrison. GUARDSMEN come double-timing out of the barracks and hurry to line up in formation. Last to emerge are Zed and Oh who step leisurely out the door now dressed as Royal Guards. Zed actually looks dashing, but Oh's breastplate is too big and his helmet keeps slipping down over his eyes.
ZED: This is great! How do I look?
OH: You look good, but I think my hat's too big. They notice an OFFICER staring at them. OH ( cont'd ) ( to the officer ) Do you happen to know where I could get a smaller hat? The officer pops him on the head with a truncheon.
OFFICER: ( ROARS ) Line up! Zed and Oh hustle into line, orders are shouted and the troop marches off.
ZED: So is this it? We just walk Pretty much. We just look for troublemakers and kick the living shit out of 'em.
CAIN: Pretty much. We just look for troublemakers and kick the living shit out of 'em.
ZED: What kind of trouble?
CAIN: If we see a thief or a pickpocket, we just slap him around maybe cut off a finger or an ear, or the tip of his nose, lower lip anything you can just grab and slice in one fluid motion then we take our share of the loot and let him go. Mostly what we worry about are activist types, rabble rousers, getting people all riled up against the King or the Temple Priests. That's death for sure.
ZED: Pretty harsh, isn't it?
CAIN: Harsh times, brother. We're in the middle of a famine. People are starving. If we don't get some rain soon, it could get ugly. ( looking forward to it ) Then we'll get to start kicking ass big time. He stops to flog a BEGGAR with his hand out. CAIN ( cont'd ) Beat it, you filthy beggar!
OH: You can't blame people for being Yeah, well, just remember, it's the palace that pays you, not the Official White 71. Suddenly, they hear a regal fanfare of approaching trumpets and turn to look. At the sound of the trumpets EVERYONE IN THE CROWDED SQUARE falls to the ground and prostrates himself. Cain pulls Oh to the ground but Zed is left standing there oblivious as the ROYAL ENTOURAGE approaches. Oh taps on Zed's leg trying to get his attention, but Zed just ignores it, too transfixed to notice that he's the only one standing. EIGHT STRONG MALE SLAVES enter the square carrying an ornately decorated litter shaded with a silk canopy. On it is the PRINCESS INANNA, a stunning young woman, richly dressed and bejeweled, with exotic eyes and luscious red lips. A HANDMAIDEN rides along fanning her with a big ostrich plume fan. Zed sees the Princess and is instantly taken with her beauty. Princess Inanna glances his way and can't help but notice he's the only person in the square still standing. She gives him a quizzical smile, then turns away imperiously. As the litter passes, her handmaiden continues to stare at Zed. He doesn't recognize her, but we do. It's Maya, now elaborately costumed and made-up. Zed gawks at the Princess, then suddenly a ROYAL GUARD knocks him to the ground and stands on his neck as the rest of the entourage passes.
CAIN: Yeah, well, just remember, it's the palace that pays you, not the Official White 71. Suddenly, they hear a regal fanfare of approaching trumpets and turn to look. At the sound of the trumpets EVERYONE IN THE CROWDED SQUARE falls to the ground and prostrates himself. Cain pulls Oh to the ground but Zed is left standing there oblivious as the ROYAL ENTOURAGE approaches. Oh taps on Zed's leg trying to get his attention, but Zed just ignores it, too transfixed to notice that he's the only one standing. EIGHT STRONG MALE SLAVES enter the square carrying an ornately decorated litter shaded with a silk canopy. On it is the PRINCESS INANNA, a stunning young woman, richly dressed and bejeweled, with exotic eyes and luscious red lips. A HANDMAIDEN rides along fanning her with a big ostrich plume fan. Zed sees the Princess and is instantly taken with her beauty. Princess Inanna glances his way and can't help but notice he's the only person in the square still standing. She gives him a quizzical smile, then turns away imperiously. As the litter passes, her handmaiden continues to stare at Zed. He doesn't recognize her, but we do. It's Maya, now elaborately costumed and made-up. Zed gawks at the Princess, then suddenly a ROYAL GUARD knocks him to the ground and stands on his neck as the rest of the entourage passes.
ZED: ( on the ground, excitedly to Oh ) Did you see that girl? I think she liked me! She looked right at me.
OH: Gee, I wonder why? The royal guard takes his foot off Zed's neck and they all get back to their feet.
ZED: Who was she?
CAIN: The Princess Inanna. She's totally hot, but don't even think about it.
ZED: Why not?
CAIN: Because she's royalty and you're The entire crowd starts moving in the same direction as the royal entourage.
OH: Where's everybody going?
CAIN: To the temple. Let's go. ( starts walking ) You have to see this.
ZED: ( FOLLOWING ) Will she be there?
CAIN: Everybody will be there.
ZED: Hey, there she is! He starts edging toward the royal pavilion.
KING: The Princess isn't eating?
INANNA: I find it hard to eat when so many are hungry.
KING: ( as if ) Your concern is enviable.
INANNA: ( POUTY ) And besides, I'm so fat. The Queen, 40's, still beautiful, reacts.
QUEEN: ( for the hundredth time ) You're not fat
INANNA: Yes, I am, mother! Those new linen pants you got me from Egypt make my ass look just huge.
QUEEN: Well, you can't keep starving Why not? Everybody else is starving present company Official White 74.
INANNA: Why not? Everybody else is starving present company Official White 74.
KING: Careful, Princess. You may be my step-daughter, but these are dangerous times and those are dangerous words. I weep for the suffering of my people, but the spirit of rebellion is alive in the city and if necessary I will crush it with every means at my disposal.
INANNA: ( SARCASTIC ) For the good of the people.
KING: ( warning her ) For the good of everyone who enjoys the favor of the throne.
INANNA: Whatever. I'm just so incredibly 46 THE TEMPLE DOORS 46 The fanfare climaxes as the great temple doors slowly open and the HIGH PRIEST emerges followed by a retinue of PRIESTESSES and a dozen VESTAL VIRGINS. They walk in solemn silence to ritual positions around the altar. The High Priest is even more elaborately costumed than the nobles, ridiculously so, standing very tall on high platform shoes, with heavy eye makeup, his hair and beard even oilier than the others. He turns to the altar, raises his hands to the heavens and begins his invocation.
HIGH PRIEST: ( intoning pompously ) O El, lord of Heaven and Earth; Baal, the Sublime; Shapash, goddess of the sun; Hadad, the storm god, over-ruling son of Dagon, the bountiful, god of grain, our earthly sustenance
ZED: He makes his way to a position just below the royal pavilion and stares up at the Princess Inanna. She sees him looking at her but pretends not to notice.
INANNA: Isn't that the idiot who was standing up in the street? Maya sees him, too, and starts fuming. The High Priest continues.
HIGH PRIEST: We come before you in humble supplication, invoking your blessing, the sweet rain which waters our fields, enriches the harvest, fills our storehouses, makes mighty the house of Ish-ka-bi- baal and the city of Sodom The King nods graciously. HIGH PRIEST ( cont'd ) and feeds us, your children, with the bounty of your grace.
PRINCESS INANNA: She glances at Zed again, but this time a slight smile crosses her lips. Zed grins back at her. The Princess whispers something to her handmaiden Maya and subtly points Zed out to her. Maya nods obediently, glaring at Zed, and starts fanning the princess a little too THE ALTAR HIGH PRIEST Accept now this humble sacrifice to the power and glory of your He starts inspecting the Vestal Virgins, beautiful young women in diaphanous, almost transparent white gowns.
THE ALTAR: HIGH PRIEST Accept now this humble sacrifice to the power and glory of your He starts inspecting the Vestal Virgins, beautiful young women in diaphanous, almost transparent white gowns.
HIGH PRIEST: Accept now this humble sacrifice to the power and glory of your He starts inspecting the Vestal Virgins, beautiful young women in diaphanous, almost transparent white gowns.
ZED: What's happening?
GUY: He's picking a virgin.
CAIN: ( LASCIVIOUS ) Oh yeah. Uh huh. Uh huh.
ZED: What do they want a virgin for?
GUY: To throw into the fire.
ZED: ( SHOCKED ) ( like talking to an idiot ) Offering to the Gods. There's a famine going on. If we don't make a good sacrifice, it won't rain. No rain, no harvest. No harvest, no food. Get it?
GUY: ( like talking to an idiot ) Offering to the Gods. There's a famine going on. If we don't make a good sacrifice, it won't rain. No rain, no harvest. No harvest, no food. Get it?
CAIN: It's pretty self-explanatory.
OH: You throw the virgin in the fire so it'll rain?
GUY: Seems like a waste of a perfectly good virgin to me.
ZED: Seems like a waste of a perfectly good virgin to me.
OH: ( CONCERNED ) These virgins it's always a girl, AT THE ALTAR A great cheer goes up as a girl is chosen. She swoons as the priestesses slip off her vestment and two priests escort her to the fiery mouth of the furnace.
HIGH PRIEST: For the love of the Gods and the glory of their Creation, the great dome of Heaven, the green growing Earth, we commit this maiden to your Holy Fire. Another great cheer from the crowd as they throw her into the ( APPALLED ) This is just crazy. Maya approaches them but Zed and Oh still don't recognize ( eyes downcast ) The Princess wishes to see you.
ZED: ( APPALLED ) This is just crazy. Maya approaches them but Zed and Oh still don't recognize ( eyes downcast ) The Princess wishes to see you.
MAYA: ( eyes downcast ) The Princess wishes to see you.
CAIN: ( staring at her cleavage ) Her wish is my command.
MAYA: Not you. Him. ( points at Zed )
ZED: Me? Cool. ( then, motioning to Oh ) We're kind of a package deal. Can he come with?
CAIN: The three of us are inseparable. We're like brothers. Cain squeezes both their shoulders and gives Maya an artificial smile.
MAYA: The two of you follow me.
ZED: ( to Cain ) I'll try to put in a good word for Cain fumes as Zed and Oh head off with Maya.
MAYA: ( to Oh ) This is Zaftig the Eunuch. You go with him. Oh is led away by the Eunuch as she takes Zed off in the opposite direction.
OH: Can't I go with him?
EUNUCH: Why? Is he your lover?
OH: ( laughs at the thought ) Hah! No? That would be weird.
LOVERS: The Eunuch just shrugs, apparently not that weird to him. OH ( cont'd )
EUNUCH: I serve the royal family little of this, little of that. I've been a palace eunuch since I was nine years old.
OH: You've been living here since you were nine? ( looks around, impressed ) I should look into that. How do you get to be a eunuch?
EUNUCH: ( MATTER-OF-FACT ) They cut off your testicles.
OH: ( HORRIFIED ) What?! What's up with all the genital mutilation?
EUNUCH: ( SHRUGS ) Trust me, after a while you don't even miss them.
OH: ( EMPHATIC ) No, I'd miss them I'm sure. I hardly got to use them yet. The Eunuch leads him down the corridor.
KING: Six sacrifices in the last ten days and still no rain. What do the entrails predict?
HIGH PRIEST: ( nervously poking at the sheep heart ) Well, the liver is streaked with gray that's not a favorable sign but the heart looks good. See how nice and red it is here. That's always a good omen.
KING: What does it mean?
HIGH PRIEST: Usually it means that the sheep took very good care of itself, probably sticking to a high-fiber diet of grass and hay.
KING: What does it mean for us?
HIGH PRIEST: Well, it could mean either a surprise visit from a former friend or sweetheart or that you're going on a long sea voyage! Wouldn't that be fun?
KING: ( SCORNFUL ) How did you become High Priest?
HIGH PRIEST: Because I'm your brother?
PRIME MINISTER: Perhaps it's time for a new High HIGH PRIEST ( his eyes go wide ) Perhaps it's not time for a new High Priest. Aaaahh! He dramatically flings his fingers out at the Prime Minister, as if wielding the power of the Gods. Nothing happens. HIGH PRIEST ( cont'd ) And let that be a warning to you. Next time, I will hurl a lightning bolt at your face.
HIGH PRIEST: ( his eyes go wide ) Perhaps it's not time for a new High Priest. Aaaahh! He dramatically flings his fingers out at the Prime Minister, as if wielding the power of the Gods. Nothing happens. HIGH PRIEST ( cont'd ) And let that be a warning to you. Next time, I will hurl a lightning bolt at your face.
PRIME MINISTER: ( ignores him ) Majesty, there's talk of revolution in the streets. Grain and oil are scarce, prices are high, starving peasants are pouring into the city looking for food
KING: Poverty has a bitter taste, but it's the flavor they were born to. It's the will of the Gods. The Queen and Princess Inanna are lounging on cushioned divans, listening.
INANNA: ( BLASE ) Can the Gods really be so cruel?
QUEEN: I don't think that's cruel. It's just practical. If everybody was rich, who'd wait on us? Maya approaches and whispers something to the Princess.
INANNA: Good. See that he's bathed and dressed, then bring him to me. Maya frowns and exits. INANNA ( cont'd ) ( to the queen ) This should be amusing.
ZED: What do you think, ponytail or no ponytail? You know what?
CAIN: ( POINTED ) I wouldn't know.- I'm just a guard because my "brother" didn't pull any strings with his friends in the royal court.
ZED: Look, first of all, we're not actually brothers-
CAIN: Just like Abel. I oughta just bash your head in
ZED: Hey! You didn't let me finish. As soon as I get in there I'm going to talk to somebody and get you invited, okay?
CAIN: ( UNCONVINCED ) Yeah, sure. Have a nice orgy. Cain pulls open the big doors and Zed steps through the portal. Cain tries to steal peeks inside as the heavy doors slam shut.
ZED: Feels like a hair-down kinda scene, don't you think?
MAYA: As you wish.
ZED: Maya?! What are you doing here?
MAYA: I had no choice. I'm a slave, I was going to rescue you! Really! In fact, we came here to find you.
ZED: I was going to rescue you! Really! In fact, we came here to find you.
MAYA: ( not buying it ) Wait here until you're sent for.
ZED: This wasn't my idea, you know.
MAYA: Of course not. You were just chosen again. Maybe after you and the Princess get together you can start thinking about someone beside She walks off before he can answer. Zed shakes his head, looks around the room, then STARTS walking past a row of "LIVING STATUES," semi-nude men and women on pedestals covered head to toe in gold body paint, frozen in heroic postures that show off their beautiful Zed looks closely at one beautiful nude "GODDESS", then furtively reaches out and fondles her breast. The goddess slaps his hand, then resumes her pose.
GODDESS: watch it, jerk!
ZED: Hey! You're a real girl! That is so cool.
OH: ( through clenched teeth ) I'm not supposed to talk. I'm a Yeah, you look so gold. How's it How's it going? I just had my whole body painted by a fat guy with no balls, and believe me, he was very thorough, if you know what I mean. How's it going with you?
ZED: Yeah, you look so gold. How's it How's it going? I just had my whole body painted by a fat guy with no balls, and believe me, he was very thorough, if you know what I mean. How's it going with you?
OH: How's it going? I just had my whole body painted by a fat guy with no balls, and believe me, he was very thorough, if you know what I mean. How's it going with you?
ZED: Not bad. Had a little rub and a scrub, now I'm up for some grub.
OH: That sounds nice for you.
ZED: Hey! You'll never guess who's here- - Maya! She's working here and she looks great! But she's kinda mad at me. Oh scans the great hall looking for her and spots Zed's sister Eema, his crush, come into the room carrying a tray of Official White 85.
OH: There's Eema! Eema has been beautifully groomed and is now dressed as a household slave. She stops to serve some rowdy OFFICERS who take the opportunity to tease and fondle her. She tries to pull away but Sargon, the general, grabs her arm.
SARGON: Stand still, wench! I want to see what's under that skirt. As he starts to lift her hem, she drops the whole tray of food on him. His cohorts laugh.
EEMA: I'm sorry! It was an accident.
SARGON: That was no accident! Sargon grabs her and raises his hand to hit her. Zed steps in quickly.
ZED: You! Slave girl! ( he pulls her away from
SARGON ): I told you to fetch me more wine! Apologize to this officer- now!
EEMA: I'm sorry.
ZED: Now go fetch! Wait by that skinny statue. I'll deal with you As Eema exits, Zed turns to the officers and shrugs. ZED ( cont'd ) Slaves what are you gonna do?
SARGON: Try using a hot poker. That they Ouch. Helpful hint. I will keep that in mind.
ZED: Ouch. Helpful hint. I will keep that in mind.
EEMA: We were sold to the palace. But I won't serve these people! I'd rather die!
ZED: Keep that up and you will.
EEMA: What are you doing here? ( notices his clothes ) Have you joined them?
OH: I haven't joined anything. ( re the gold body paint ) Does this look like fun? They both look accusingly at Zed.
ZED: Okay, I know what you're thinking, but I'm just checking it out. We kept hearing that this place was so evil, but now that I look around I'm thinking maybe it's not all bad. There's a lot to learn here.
OH: What? Like human sacrifice?
ZED: No! Like the wheel, for instance! That's pretty awesome the way it just goes around in a circle. And farming! And metal writing, money, pottery hot baths. Come on! Back in the village we thought sharpening a stick was a big ( to Oh ) What happened to him?
EEMA: ( to Oh ) What happened to him?
ZED: Look, I think I've been chosen to do something great with my life
OH: Here we go again
ZED: and I don't think it's hunting wild pigs and weaving baskets. Maya returns for Zed.
MAYA: ( COOLLY ) She wants to see you now.
ZED: I hope you don't think I'm interested in her.
MAYA: ( MIFFED ) Why would I think that? Just because you couldn't take your eyes off her
ZED: I'm just using her, Maya! It's part of my plan. I'm going to get you all out of here as soon as I ( SKEPTICAL ) What's your plan?
MAYA: ( SKEPTICAL ) What's your plan?
ZED: ( not a clue ) It's a secret.
MAYA: ( not buying it ) Forget it. Maya sees A GUARD watching them and reverts to her slave MAYA ( cont'd ) ( bowing to Zed ) The Princess awaits you.
ZED: And I await her. ( to Oh and Eema ) You two await me. ( then confidentially to Eema and Oh ) Stay out of trouble. I'll be back. He exits with Maya.
EEMA: He has no idea what he's doing, does he?
OH: I don't know. So much has happened. Sometimes I think She walks away. OH ( cont'd ) ( wistfully, to himself ) I love you.
HIGH PRIEST: ( to Oh ) You there! Golden boy! Rub me with oil. The High Priest dismisses the young men, then stands and lets his rich outer robe fall to the floor. His chest, back and shoulders are incredibly hairy.
OH: I'd rather not, if you don't mind. I'm not really a slave. I'm a HIGH PRIEST Then maybe you'd rather I speak to your commander and have you whipped to within an inch of your life. Or perhaps I whip you myself? How would you like that?
HIGH PRIEST: Then maybe you'd rather I speak to your commander and have you whipped to within an inch of your life. Or perhaps I whip you myself? How would you like that?
OH: Are those my choices?
HIGH PRIEST: I'd say so. The High Priest lies back down. Oh looks around, finds a pitcher filled with precious oil and dribbles some on the High Priest's hairy chest.
OH: How's that?
HIGH PRIEST: ( splashes a few more drops on him ) That enough?
OH: ( splashes a few more drops on him ) That enough?
HIGH PRIEST: ( getting angry ) No! More oil! Much more, you insolent dolt! Oh pours oil liberally over his chest, back, and shoulders. HIGH PRIEST ( cont'd ) That's good. Now rub it in.
OH: ( APPALLED ) With my hands?
HIGH PRIEST: Do it! Oh grimaces and starts gingerly massaging the oil into his hairy chest and shoulders. HIGH PRIEST ( cont'd ) ( in ecstasy ) Mmmmm, I love it. The sweet scent of precious oil. The oily Eema walks by with a pitcher of wine and sees Oh massaging the High Priest. She gasps.
OH: ( EMBARRASSED ) Eema! This isn't what you think.
EEMA: ( FLUSTERED ) No, it's fine. I understand. This really explains a lot about you that I didn't get before.
OH: No, really! I'm just rubbing oil on this man. She exits.
HIGH PRIEST: Mnum imam. I have an idea. Why don't we go back to my place and see what's under all that paint?
OH: ( DISGUSTED ) CUT TO: 53 INT. PRINCESS'S CHAMBER - NIGHT - MINUTES LATER 53 Maya ushers Zed into the dimly lit room.
MAYA: Good luck.
ZED: She leaves him. A haze of heavily scented incense hangs in the air.
MAYA: She leaves him. A haze of heavily scented incense hangs in the air.
INANNA: Beautiful, isn't it? You can see Gomorrah just over the hill.
ZED: I didn't know it was so close.
INANNA: They're called the "twin cities."
ZED: Looks pretty from up here, but some people think God is going to wipe them out because they're so evil.
INANNA: ( toying with him ) And what do you think? Am I evil?
ZED: I don't really know you. But you don't look evil.
PRINCESS: Do you find me attractive?
ZED: Well, yeah. I think you're ( moving closer ) I have body issues.
INANNA: ( moving closer ) I have body issues.
ZED: No, you're perfect. Your face, your hair ( looking into her eyes ) Your eyes are like the sea.
INANNA: ( a beat ) My eyes are brown.
ZED: Well, it's kinda dark. I took a shot. I know they're big, though and wet She pulls him close. ZED ( cont'd ) Can I ask you one thing? What would a girl like you want with a guy like me?
INANNA: I don't know. I just find you interesting. They say it's the will of the gods that some men should suffer while others rule that we're all just victims of our fate. And I believed that until this morning when I saw you standing up, alone, in the square. And I said to myself, finally here's one man who refuses to bow down to anything
ZED: ( considers explaining but just lets it go ) Yeah. That's me.
UH: ( considers explaining but just lets it go ) Yeah. That's me.
INANNA: Yes, finally a man who has the courage to question the order of things- a man chosen by the Gods to do something great.
ZED: ( EXHILARATED ) That's exactly what I've been thinking! You wouldn't believe the things that have been happening to me lately. I just didn't know why.
INANNA: ( gets very, very close ) I know why. To bring you here to this place to me.
ZED: ( SMITTEN ) I couldn't agree more. I'm trying to agree more, but I can't. That's how much I agree.
INANNA: She takes his hand and leads him away. A SHADOWY FIGURE watches them from behind a curtain.
HIGH PRIEST: My life is devoted to the service of the Gods and the good of the people. I take nothing for myself. He has a huge gold ring set with precious gems on every finger, and a gold tiara on his head studded with rubies and That's so unselfish of you.
OH: That's so unselfish of you.
HIGH PRIEST: Yes, it is. It's just so lonely. Sometimes i hunger for the touch of another human being.
HIMSELF ): Ohquickly changes the subject.
OH: So where does that hall lead to?
HIGH PRIEST: ( his eyes light up ) Come, I'll show you. He takes Oh's arm and leads him down the hail toward a set of incredibly impressive doors covered with cuneiform writing and arcane religious symbols. HIGH PRIEST ( cont'd ) Behind those doors is the Holy of Holies the earthly domain of the
OH: ( a long beat ) So who cleans it?
HIGH PRIEST: it needs no cleaning.
OH: No, of course not. ( can't let go of it ) Kind of makes you wonder though the guys who built it, did they just die the minute they finished, or did the Gods give them a second to get out?
HIGH PRIEST: ( starting to get annoyed ) I assume they finished it, then the Gods descended.
OH: Yeah, that's probably it. ( another long beat ) So you're saying we can't go in?
HIGH PRIEST: I just told you! To enter is instant death! Only I can go in and only once a year after very elaborate purification rituals and days of special prayers and ( QUICKLY ) Right, right, right.
OH: ( QUICKLY ) Right, right, right.
HIGH PRIEST: Fine! Enough! I'm sorry I brought it up. Let's go. ( pushes Oh along ) Move. Move. He shoos him down the hall.
ZED: ( looking around nervously ) What are we doing here?
INANNA: I want you to enter the Holy of Yes! Finally. Now you're talking! Should I enter it right here or should we go back to your bedroom? Does the Holy of Holies like to be entered from behind or?
ZED: Yes! Finally. Now you're talking! Should I enter it right here or should we go back to your bedroom? Does the Holy of Holies like to be entered from behind or?
INANNA: ( POINTS ) That's the Holy of Holies you have to go in there and talk to the The Gods are in there?
ZED: The Gods are in there?
INANNA: So they say, but the only one who ever goes in is the High Priest. They say it's instant death for anyone else to enter.
ZED: Then why am I going in?
INANNA: ( IMPATIENT ) Because you were chosen? If the Gods wanted you dead they would have killed you already.
ZED: This is what you've been chosen for! To speak to the Gods and plead with them not to destroy the city. Then come back out and tell me what it's like inside.
RIGHT: This is what you've been chosen for! To speak to the Gods and plead with them not to destroy the city. Then come back out and tell me what it's like inside.
INANNA: This is what you've been chosen for! To speak to the Gods and plead with them not to destroy the city. Then come back out and tell me what it's like inside.
ZED: ( mulling it over ) Right right. Then again, if the rules say
INANNA: Do you always follow the rules?
ZED: What is it with chicks always wanting guys to break the rules? You-all have this bad boy complex She kisses him fiercely on the lips.
INANNA: Do this for me.
ZED: I'm going in. He enters the Holy of Holies. A FIGURE darts between the columns and hides in the shadows. A beam of moonlight reveals the mark of Cain on his forehead.
ZED: ( takes a deep breath and starts improvising ) Thank you, O Merciful ones, for not like killing me, and letting me receive the, uh, blessing of your holy godliness. He exhales and closes his eyes again, waiting for some divine response. Nothing comes.
ELBOWS ): Okay, I don't know the right words so I'm just going to say what I have to say if that's all right. ( waits for a response, gets none, proceeds ) I know I haven't always done the right thing. Eating the fruit was bad, I know that and the Cain thing and I have done somethings with women I do love the ladies well, you probably know all that because you're watching everything ( a thought occurs ) Do you really watch everything? That's got to be a little disgusting sometimes but probably pretty hot, too
ZED: I was just looking for the ( INNOCENTLY ) I told him not to go in.
INANNA: ( INNOCENTLY ) I told him not to go in.
HIGH PRIEST: ( SHRIEKS ) Seize them!
OH: ( scared, points at Zed ) Seize him! The guards arrest Oh as Cain steps up and takes hold of Zed.
CAIN: ( SMIRKING ) Should've invited me to the party.
ZED: I wish I was upside down. Looks Oh won't talk to him. ZED ( cont'd ) So this is it? We're not friends anymore? After all I've done for Official White 100.
OH: What have you done for me? I've been attacked by a cougar, I've fallen down a mountain, I almost had the tip of my thingy cut off, I've been greasing up the High Priest all night, and now I'm hanging upside down in a dungeon. And I have to pee real bad. All because of you. You call yourself a friend? Name one good thing you've done for me.
ZED: I've helped you come out of your ( in distress ) I really have to pee
OH: ( in distress ) I really have to pee
ZED: Listen, I know I'm not perfect, and I may have made a few wrong turns, but you have to understand I'm a chosen. That's a lot of responsibility you can't even ( ANGRY ) The only one who thinks you're chosen is you, so shut up already!
OH: ( ANGRY ) The only one who thinks you're chosen is you, so shut up already!
ZED: ( STUNG ) Okay, be mad, but I'm going to get us out of here, if it's the last thing I do. Zed starts frantically yanking on his shackles to no avail. ZED ( cont'd ) That was just my first idea and I'm also accepting ideas.
OH: ( SHOUTS ) Guard! I have to pee! Now! ( can't hold it anymore ) Oh, no
CAIN: For the crimes of blasphemy ( the crowd grumbles its
DISAPPROVAL ): ( grumble, grumble )
HERESY: ( grumble, grumble )
CONSPIRACY: ( serious grumbling )
SODOMY: ( admiring oohs and aahs ) And the murder of my brother Abel
ZED: Oh, come on!
CAIN: Shut up! For these and other crimes they may not actually have done yet but we're pretty sure they were thinking about, the prisoners will be stoned to death. The crowd roars as GUARDS stationed around the square pull canvas covers off big baskets of rocks and the people rush to grab stones to throw. Zed and Oh instinctively move closer to each other.
PALACE BALCONY: The King, Queen, High Priest and Royal Ministers observe the stoning from their vantage point above the square. Princess Inanna refuses to look.
KING: Observe, my dear. It seems the least you could do, since it was you who lured him to his death. She reluctantly turns and looks at Zed.
INANNA: I didn't intend for this to happen.
THE SQUARE: The people move in and surround the platform on all sides, baseball-size rocks in their hands.
CAIN: ( to Zed and Oh ) Anything to say before the sentence is carried out?
ZED: ( to the crowd ) I just want to say this is really messed up
CAIN: ( SHOUTS ) STONE THEM! The people fling their rocks with all their might. Zed and Oh duck. The rocks fly over their heads and hit people in the crowd on the opposite sides, several bystanders taking painful hits in the head, some falling down unconscious. Cain notes the impracticality of having people throw rocks from all directions. CAIN ( cont'd ) Okay! Stop! Halt! Hold it! This isn't working.
OKAY: ( SHOUTS ) STONE THEM! The people fling their rocks with all their might. Zed and Oh duck. The rocks fly over their heads and hit people in the crowd on the opposite sides, several bystanders taking painful hits in the head, some falling down unconscious. Cain notes the impracticality of having people throw rocks from all directions. CAIN ( cont'd ) Okay! Stop! Halt! Hold it! This isn't working.
STONE THEM!: The people fling their rocks with all their might. Zed and Oh duck. The rocks fly over their heads and hit people in the crowd on the opposite sides, several bystanders taking painful hits in the head, some falling down unconscious. Cain notes the impracticality of having people throw rocks from all directions. CAIN ( cont'd ) Okay! Stop! Halt! Hold it! This isn't working.
ZED: Can I make a suggestion?
CAIN: ( IRKED ) Official White 103.
ZED: Why don't you just pick one person to throw? The crowd thinks that's not a bad idea and murmurs agreement. ZED ( cont'd ) ( pressing the advantage ) In fact, don't you think it would be fair for us to get to pick the person who stones us? Cain looks doubtful, but the crowd thinks this is eminently ( some eagerly raising their hands and waving like school children ) Yes! Ooh, me! Pick me! Me!
CROWD: ( some eagerly raising their hands and waving like school children ) Yes! Ooh, me! Pick me! Me!
KING: ( re Cain ) What is that idiot doing?
ZED: We pick him! Cain points at a BIG GUY, heavily muscled, eagerly waving his No, next to him! He points at a BOY, about nine years old and not very big.
CAIN: No, next to him! He points at a BOY, about nine years old and not very big.
ZED: No, next to him! He points at a BOY, about nine years old and not very big.
CAIN: He's just a kid!
ZED: So? You got something against Zed plays the crowd which starts booing in disapproval. ZED ( cont'd ) This guy hates kids!
CROWD: Yeah! What's he got against kids? Children are the future! Give the kid a shot! The kid! The kid! On the balcony, the King shifts uncomfortably, intimidated by the power of the mob. He nods to Sargon who signals to Cain.
CAIN: All right! All right! We'll try it. Kid! Grab a rock. The boy picks up a good-size rock. Zed turns to Oh.
ZED: Good thinking, huh? They turn to face the boy, ready to dodge when he throws. The boy winds up and fires a major league fastball that smacks Oh right on the forehead. The crowd cheers. ZED ( cont'd ) Holy shit! That kid's got an arm!
OH: ( DAZED ) I think he hit me. The boy fires again. Oh spins and tries to duck but takes the rock right on the OH ( cont'd ) Hey! There's two of us! The crowd cheers and pats the kid on the back.
CAIN: Okay, everybody on this side now! On the count of three! One two
ZED: Wait! I have a question for the The crowd goes silent. All eyes turn and look up to the palace balcony. ZED ( cont'd ) ( shouts to the King ) Why didn't I die in the Holy of On the balcony, everyone is totally stopped by his question. One by one they all look to the High Priest who seems to be In the square, the crowd starts muttering. Zed seizes the ZED ( cont'd ) I entered the Holy of Holies and, lo, I did not die! Why? Because I am chosen by the Gods!
THE CROWD: ( starts chanting ) Spare the Chosen One! Spare the Chosen One! Spare the Chosen One!
OH: And his friend! Don't forget his On the balcony, the King and his ministers hastily confer with the High Priest.
KING: Could it be? Is he truly chosen?
HIGH PRIEST: I don't I suppose it's possible- I'd have to examine some new
INTESTINES: Official White 106.
KING: Official White 106.
PRIME MINISTER: Majesty, with respect, whether he's chosen or not is no longer the issue. To kill him now, given the public mood, could inflame the situation enough to prompt a radical "regime change," if you take my meaning. The King looks grimly at his ministers, all of whom have lean and hungry looks. Princess Inanna smiles contemptuously at him.
SARGON: By order of the King, the sentence has been commuted. The crowd cheers. Zed and Oh exchange hopeful looks.
CAIN: ( PLAINTIVE ) Can't we just stone them a little?
SARGON: It is the judgement of our most merciful King that the prisoners are to be enslaved to toil at hard labor until they die of exhaustion or starvation.
ZED: ( exuberant fist pump ) CUT TO: 63 EXT. THE ZIGGURAT - DAY 63 Oh is up to his knees in a mud pit, trampling straw into the thick mud. A Guard cracks a bullwhip which flicks painfully across his shoulders.
OH: Okay, you think that actually makes anybody work harder? It just makes them resent you. Is that what you ( whips him again ) Can I just ask when lunch is? The whip lashes out again. Oh glowers at him and steps up the pace.
GUARD: ( whips him again ) Can I just ask when lunch is? The whip lashes out again. Oh glowers at him and steps up the pace.
OH: Can I just ask when lunch is? The whip lashes out again. Oh glowers at him and steps up the pace.
ZED: ( greets them ) Hey! Boys! Long time no see. They glance up, but ignore him. ZED ( cont'd ) Don't tell me you're still mad about Maya. That's so over. I have a thing going with the princess now well, almost had a thing. I'm a slave now just like No. You're not just like me.
MARLAK: No. You're not just like me.
ZED: Okay. We do have our differences like about a cup and half of brain tissue but that doesn't mean we can't work together. Another GUARD approaches and whacks Marlak with his stick.
GUARD #2: Take those bricks to the top. The masons are waiting.
ZED: You know, I'd like to, but I did something to my neck ( massages his neck ) I must've slept on it funny those dungeon pillows are like rocks well, they are rocks so I should probably take it easy or I'll be no damn good for work tomorrow.
GUARD #2: ( strikes him across the back with his stick ) I said move!
ZED: Okay! But I should tell you, this isn't really my area. I'm just on a break from the mud department The Guard draws his short sword and raises it over Zed.
GUARD #2: One more word and you die
ZED: ( putting on the harness ) Okay, okay. I'm going. ( to Marlak and
ENMEBARAGESI ): Okay, boys, on the count of three. One two three! Marlak and Enmebaragesi lunge against the ropes, but Zed makes no effort to pull. They glare at him. ZED ( cont'd ) Learned that from Maya. Good trick, huh? Okay, together this time. Go!
ZED: How high you guys think we're going with this?
BRICKLAYER ONE: Up to Heaven, I guess. That's how tall they usually build 'em.
ZED: ( looking up ) That's ambitious.
BRICKLAYER TWO: We worked on the Tower of Babel. Now that was a ziggurat.
BRICKLAYER ONE: Incredible erection. Zed looks down at his crotch.
ZED: ( MODESTLY ) That's nothing. You should see it when I'm excited.
BRICKLAYER ONE: The tower.
ZED: Oh, right, the tower. Incredible ( snickers to himself )
BRICKLAYER ONE: See, the Egyptians are working on an entirely different concept. Four sides, slanting walls, pointy Official White 110.
BRICKLAYER TWO: Like a pyramid?
BRICKLAYER ONE: BRICKLAYER TWO Wow. Far out. Yet timeless in a A SLAVE CHILD approaches with a water bucket.
BRICKLAYER TWO: Wow. Far out. Yet timeless in a A SLAVE CHILD approaches with a water bucket.
SLAVE CHILD: ( to Zed ) Want some water? As the child offers him the ladle, Zed recognizes her.
ZED: You're from the village, aren't The child nods. ZED ( cont'd ) I bet you wish you were back there right now, don't you. The child nods again. ZED ( cont'd ) Well, don't give up. You're going to get home someday. Marlak kicks Zed from behind, knocking him over.
MARLAK: ( standing over him ) Who's going to take her there? The Chosen One? Marlak kicks gravel and dirt in Zed's face. Zed just lies there and takes it, feeling like he's failed everyone. Then he hears the beating of drums and trumpet fanfares coming from the temple square below.
GUARD: Get in line! Now! Move!
OH: Where're we going?
GUARD: To watch the sacrifice. The King demands it.
OH: Is that compulsory? Because I saw one when I first got here and it made me a little sick The guard's whip catches him across the back. OH ( cont'd ) Ow! Why don't you try using your words for a change?
CAIN: ( leering seductively ) At your service, my lady. Anytime, ( FLIRTATIOUS ) There's a depraved thought. You're so delightfully low. Absolute ( SUAVELY ) Thank you, your majesty. He touches his tongue to the tip of his nose and waggles his The King arrives with Sargon to loud booing from the crowd.
QUEEN: ( FLIRTATIOUS ) There's a depraved thought. You're so delightfully low. Absolute ( SUAVELY ) Thank you, your majesty. He touches his tongue to the tip of his nose and waggles his The King arrives with Sargon to loud booing from the crowd.
CAIN: ( SUAVELY ) Thank you, your majesty. He touches his tongue to the tip of his nose and waggles his The King arrives with Sargon to loud booing from the crowd.
KING: Are they booing me? How dare they!
CAIN: Your Highness, with all due respect, those were "Woos." They love you. They were "wooing" you. The King looks doubtfully at the hostile crowd.
SARGON: All is in readiness, Majesty.
INANNA: ( glares at the King ) What now? More virgins to Yes, two, followers of the Chosen One, discovered by this loyal Cain bows to the King.
KING: Yes, two, followers of the Chosen One, discovered by this loyal Cain bows to the King.
CAIN: Just doing my duty.
KING: And one more to demonstrate our own faith and charity. The King stands and makes a proclamation loud enough for everyone to hear. KING ( cont'd ) In supplication to the Gods, for the love of the People, we offer a humble sacrifice to the sacred temple fire our own step- daughter, the Princess Inanna! The crowd gasps. KING ( cont'd ) ( to Inanna ) For the good of the people.
QUEEN: ( stands in protest ) You wouldn't dare!
KING: Wouldn't I? If you like, I could arrange for you to join her. The Queen slowly sits back down. KING ( cont'd ) ( to Inanna ) How long did you think I'd tolerate your insolence? ( to Sargon ) Burn her.- Sargon and Cain seize Inanna, but she shrugs them off and rises with dignity.
INANNA: I'll see you all in Hell.
OH: ( casually name-dropping ) See the High Priest? I know him. Dear friend of mine.
THE TEMPLE: Now the procession of SACRIFICIAL VIRGINS is led out by the HIGH PRIESTESS. Maya and Eema are among them, their hands tied. They look like they've been drugged. Oh spots Eema and Maya among the virgins.
OH: ( PANICKED ) That's Eema! And Maya! I know EDOMITE SLAVE ( SARCASTIC ) I guess you know everybody, don't Oh shoulders his way right up to the barrier where a BIG GUARD stops him with a spear to his neck.
EDOMITE SLAVE: ( SARCASTIC ) I guess you know everybody, don't Oh shoulders his way right up to the barrier where a BIG GUARD stops him with a spear to his neck.
BIG GUARD: That's far enough, slave. Oh stops right there, frustrated and frightened.
THE TEMPLE: Inanna is led out last, now also having been drugged.
ENMEBARAGESI: They're bringing out the women.
ZED: ( AMAZED ) How are you seeing that far?
ENMEBARAGESI: I see your sister, Eema
ZED: ( SQUINTING ) It's Maya!
OH: We have to do something! Somebody has to stop it. ( turning to the other
SLAVES ): We can't let them do this! The slaves start to mutter. The guards draw their swords and heft their spears, now on high alert.
ZED: ( to Marlak ) I have to get down there.
GUARD #2: ( SNORTS ) Over my dead body.
MARLAK: All right. Without a moment's hesitation, Marlak grabs him and tosses him off the top of the ziggurat. He screams all the way Wow. Who saw that coming? Thanks, Marlak.
ZED: Wow. Who saw that coming? Thanks, Marlak.
MARLAK: Now what? Zed looks around quickly, grabs the end of a long coiled rope attached to a big pulley, and hands Marlak the other end.
ZED: ( looping the rope around his waist ) Lower me down. Without waiting for a response, Zed bravely jumps off the top of the ziggurat holding the rope.
ZED: He's descending rapidly, rappelling off the side of the ziggurat. He looks up, expecting Marlak to belay him and slow him down.
ZED: ( CALLING ) Any time now, Marlak! Marlak and Enmebaragesi watch his descent, dumbly interested in what happens next. Zed sees he's not slowing down and tries to swing himself onto one of the upper levels of the ziggurat. However, when he swings in, he hits a cart loaded with bricks and bounces off painfully.
HIGH PRIEST: We implore the great Gods of heaven to show us a sign that we may honor your divine will and be worthy of your blessing.
THE ZIGGURAT: Zed is still descending as the broken scaffolding starts to give way.
TEMPLE SQUARE: The whole crowd watches in amazement as the 250 foot scaffolding slowly collapses and crashes to the ground, bringing tons of debris with it, sending up a great cloud of THE HIGH PRIEST He looks shocked.
OH: He seizes the opportunity.
OH: A sign! It's a sign! The Chosen One comes! The other slaves and people in the crowd pick up his Official White 118.
CROWD: The Chosen One! A sign from the THE HIGH PRIEST He doesn't quite know how to respond to the growing fervor of the crowd.
HIGH PRIEST: Yes! Well and truly, the Gods are with us The crowd drowns him out.
HIGH PRIEST: Burn them! Now! He grabs Maya and starts dragging her toward the gaping mouth of the idol and the raging fire within. She struggles but is too drugged to put up much resistance. He grabs the sacramental pitcher of oil and starts sloppily anointing her. HIGH PRIEST ( cont'd )
ZED: ( SHOUTS ) I don't think so! Zed is standing atop the idol's head, brandishing a sword and She sees him and starts to revive.
MAYA: She sees him and starts to revive.
MAYA: THE HIGH PRIEST looks up, unable to hear Zed over the crowd noise.
HIGH PRIEST: ( cupping his ear ) What did you say?
ZED: ( SHOUTS ) I said, 'I don't think so!'
HIGH PRIEST: ( shakes his head ) Still not getting it. Zed rolls his eyes in frustration and starts tentatively climbing down from the top of the idol. He jumps the last few feet and lands right in front of the fire, blocking the High Priest's way.
ZED: I Said, 'I don't think so.'
HIGH PRIEST: ( CONFUSED ) You don't think what?
ZED: Whatever that last thing you said HIGH PRIEST ( THINKS ) I forgot.
HIGH PRIEST: ( THINKS ) I forgot.
OH: ( to the Edomite slave ) I know him, too. Oh springs into action, attacking the big guard in front of him. The other slaves see that and start fighting with their guards, a genuine slave revolt.
THE CROWD: Guards start moving to help their comrades, but the spirit of insurrection takes hold of the crowd and people start grappling with the guards. A PLATOON OF REINFORCEMENTS comes double-timing into the Suddenly, A STOOPED OLD MAN throws off his cloak and pulls a sword. It's Abraham!
ABRAHAM: Death to the idolators! Abraham's small army of HEBREWS reveal themselves, draw their weapons and attack the reinforcements. The last Hebrew to unrobe is Isaac, who just stands there observing the growing chaos.
ISAAC: ( shaking his head ) Just fucking nuts.
CAIN: Tough guy, huh? You want a piece of me? Get ready to have your head bashed in!
KING: I knew I could depend on your The ministers all draw daggers from their robes and move in for the kill. KING ( cont'd )
OH: ( suddenly shy again ) Hello, Eema.
EEMA: ( still a little dazed ) He stares at her full red lips and big blue eyes.
OH: ( suddenly forceful ) Eema, you're my woman! You hear Official White 122.
EEMA: Official White 122.
OH: Really? It's okay? He pulls her into an embrace and kisses her hard on the mouth. Then, out of the corner of his eye, Oh sees a guard rushing at him. Oh whirls and falls off the platform, accidentally cutting the guards legs out from under him.
HIGH PRIEST: ( screaming and crying ) Keep away!
ZED: Let her go.
HIGH PRIEST: ( his mascara running ) No! The Gods demand a sacrifice! And you ruined it! He wrestles Maya even closer to the fire.
ZED: ( trying to keep him calm ) Why don't we just sacrifice something small a rabbit maybe. Or a duck. That'd be good, don't you think?
HIGH PRIEST: ( SCREAMS ) No! A duck would not be good!
HIGH PRIEST: ( SCREAMS ) TEMPLE SQUARE Everyone goes silent, stunned by the incredible turn of events. All eyes turn to Zed and Oh, now standing before them on the center stage of the temple.
TEMPLE SQUARE: Everyone goes silent, stunned by the incredible turn of events. All eyes turn to Zed and Oh, now standing before them on the center stage of the temple.
ZED: I'm the, uh, Chosen One, I guess, and on behalf of, well, the whole city, I want to thank the High Priest for his incredible sacrifice. That was really something, wasn't it? He starts clapping, then Oh starts clapping, and soon all the people in the square are applauding. At that moment a single drop of rain falls and hits Zed in the eye. He looks up, a few more drops, then a hard steady rain starts to fall. The people all look up in awe, then someone cheers and they all roar in celebration. Then the rain stops as suddenly as it started. The cheers die away, and confused, dissatisfied muttering begins. ZED ( cont'd ) ( jumping in quickly ) People! Friends! Sodomites! Okay, that was a little confusing, wasn't it?
MARLAK: All hail the Chosen One! With that the crowd explodes into rousing cheers. In the midst of the crowd, Abraham looks around and scowls.
ABRAHAM: What am I? Chopped liver? At the altar, Maya, revived now, embraces Zed.
MAYA: You're incredible, you know that?
ZED: That's what I've been trying to tell you. Zed and Maya, Oh and Eema stand there basking in the gratitude of the people as Inanna looks on.
ISAAC: Hey, babe. Ever made it with a circumcised guy? Marlak grunts at him and reaches for his knife. ISAAC ( cont'd )
MARLAK: ( GRUDGING ) You did good. Zed waits for more, but nothing comes.
ZED: ( rubbing his shoulder ) Well said, Marlak. You really have a way with words. They clasp hands.
MARLAK: We'll tell stories about you around the fire.
ZED: Not much to tell, is there? Just an average guy who saw his destiny and had the courage to defy a powerful empire. No big deal. Oh is at the front of the caravan, giving orders, but no one is listening to him. Zed joins him. ZED ( cont'd ) Everybody ready?
OH: ( WORRIED ) Yeah, just about I guess so. The Hebrews are going to lead us to the sea and we can get boats from there. We can trade all this stuff everybody gave us for the trip ( NERVOUS ) I don't think I should be the leader. Nobody's listening to me.
EEMA: ( by his side ) I'll listen to you. Oh swells up with pride.
OH: ( turns to Zed ) Come back to the village sometime. Zed nods, they shake hands, then they embrace. Stifling a tear, Oh breaks away and whips the lead camel. OH ( cont'd ) ( shouting at camel ) ( beat, quietly to camel ) Come on. People are watching. The camel looks at him and slowly lumbers off. Oh sighs gratefully and signals the caravan to follow. As the great caravan moves off, Zed is left standing there with nothing but a long staff, and a bundle on the ground beside him to which is tied his sword, shield and helmet. Maya joins him.
MAYA: Where will you go now?
ZED: Might head down to Egypt. I hear it's a happening kinda place.
MAYA: Are you going alone?
ZED: Not necessarily. You want to come?
MAYA: I'll get my things. She gestures off and he sees a small train of camels and horses loaded with a ton of her personal possessions. MAYA ( cont'd ) The Princess gave me a few gifts when she freed us.
ZED: Traveling light, huh? Okay, here we go.
MAYA: ( correcting him ) That's west.
ZED: I knew that. Just wanted to see if you did. Zed grins and they start walking, passing a small herd of sheep and goats, tended by VEILED WOMEN, going in the opposite direction. As THE LAST OF THE SHEPHERD WOMEN passes, we notice something masculine about her build and posture. Zed nods politely to her, but she averts her eyes and turns away from him.
CAIN: ( in a high unconvincing woman's voice ) Peace- brother. zed does a double take at the voice, shrugs, and walks off with Maya as a torrential rain begins to fall.
THE END: Writers : Harold Ramis Gene Stupnitsky Lee Eisenberg
