CYBERSPACE: We have a sense of cyberspace-travel as we hurtle through a sky that's just beginning to get light. There are a few stars but they fade and the sky turns a milky blue and a big computer sun starts to rise. We continue hurtling through space and see that we're heading over a computer version of the New York City skyline. We move over Central Park. It's fall and the leaves are glorious reds and yellows. We reach the West Side of Manhattan and move swiftly down Broadway with its stores and gyms and movies theatres and Hold in front of a New York brownstone. At the bottom of the screen a small rectangle appears and the ADDING ART As the rectangle starts to fill with color, we see a percentage increase from 0% to 100%. When it hits 100% the image pops and we are in real life.
ADDING ART: As the rectangle starts to fill with color, we see a percentage increase from 0% to 100%. When it hits 100% the image pops and we are in real life.
KATHLEEN: Good morning.
FRANK: ( as he reads ) Listen to this the entire work force of the state of Virginia had to have solitaire removed from their computers Kathleen gets out of bed and goes to brush her teeth in the bathroom, and we stay with Frank.
FRANK: ( continuing ) because they hadn't done any work in six weeks. Kathleen comes out of the bathroom in her robe.
KATHLEEN: Aren't you late?
FRANK: ( continuing ) You know what this is, you know what we're seeing here? We're seeing the end of Western civilization as we know it.
KATHLEEN: This is so sad. She tosses him his jacket.
FRANK: ( points at her computer ) You think that machine is your friend, but it's not. ( checks his watch ) I'm late.
FRANK: KATHLEEN ( O.C. ) Great. Bye. Frank goes out the door. It closes. Kathleen tiptoes into the hall and looks through the fish-eye peephole watching as he goes down the stairs, disappearing from sight. She walks into:
COMPUTER: And we see Kathleen, listening for the words she's waiting to And Kathleen smiles as her mail page comes up:
KATHLEEN: Brinkley is my dog. He loves the streets of New York as much as I do And now we hear Kathleen's voice replaced by the voice of NY 152, a man named JOE FOX
VOICE: Joe's girlfriend PATRICIA EDEN, in Armani head to toe, comes into the kitchen and turns on the $2000 espresso machine, which starts grinding beans. She's carrying the morning
JOE: Joe's girlfriend PATRICIA EDEN, in Armani head to toe, comes into the kitchen and turns on the $2000 espresso machine, which starts grinding beans. She's carrying the morning
PATRICIA: I'm late. Random House fired Dick Atkins. Good riddance. Murray Chilton died. Which makes one less person I'm not speaking Vince got a great review. He'll be insufferable. Tonight, PEN dinner
JOE: Am I going?
PATRICIA: You promised.
JOE: Can't I just give them money? That's the cause? Free Albanian writers? I'm for Patricia drains another cup of espresso, looks at him.
JOE: All right, I'll go. You're late.
PATRICIA: I know I know I know. She tears out of the kitchen and the door slams behind her. Hold on Joe, listening as he hears the elevator door open and close on the landing outside.
KATHLEEN: Hello, Christina. It's a beautiful day. Isn't it the most beautiful day? Christina looks up at the sky as if seeing it for the first I guess. Yeah, sure. Kathleen unlocks the shop and cranks the grate, which rises, making a horrible noise. Two cabs almost collide in front of the store, with a screech, and one cabdriver starts yelling obscenities at the other. Kathleen unlocks the door to the store.
CHRISTINA: I guess. Yeah, sure. Kathleen unlocks the shop and cranks the grate, which rises, making a horrible noise. Two cabs almost collide in front of the store, with a screech, and one cabdriver starts yelling obscenities at the other. Kathleen unlocks the door to the store.
KATHLEEN: Don't you love New York in the fall? Christina looks at her puzzled.
CHRISTINA: What's going on with you?
KATHLEEN: You're in love.
CHRISTINA: You're in love.
KATHLEEN: In love? No. Yes. Of course I am. I'm in love with Frank. I'm practically living with Frank. Do you think you could get our Christmas mailers out this By Monday I promise. I have a paper due Friday. Now what's going on? I'm just going to stand here till you tell A beat.
CHRISTINA: By Monday I promise. I have a paper due Friday. Now what's going on? I'm just going to stand here till you tell A beat.
KATHLEEN: Is it infidelity if you're involved with someone on E-mail?
CHRISTINA: Have you had sex?
KATHLEEN: Of course not. I don't even know him.
CHRISTINA: I mean cybersex.
KATHLEEN: Well, don't do it. The minute you do, they lose all respect for you.
CHRISTINA: Well, don't do it. The minute you do, they lose all respect for you.
KATHLEEN: It's not like that. We just E-mail. It's really nothing, on top of which I'm definitely thinking of stopping because it's getting
CHRISTINA: Out of hand?
KATHLEEN: Confusing. But not really. Because it's Where did you meet him?
CHRISTINA: Where did you meet him?
KATHLEEN: I can't even remember. The day I turned thirty I wandered into the Over Thirty Room for a joke, sort of and he was there, and we started About what?
CHRISTINA: About what?
KATHLEEN: Books. Music. How much we both love New York. Harmless. Harmless. Meaningless. Bouquets of sharpened pencils.
CHRISTINA: Excuse me?
KATHLEEN: Forget it. We don't talk about anything personal. We made a rule about that. I don't know his name, what he does or exactly where he lives, so it will be really easy to stop seeing him, because I'm not.
CHRISTINA: God, he could be the next person to talk into the store. He could be. GEORGE PAPPAS, in his twenties, one of Kathleen's salespeople, is a cute guy who has no idea that he's supposed to look in the mirror when he gets dressed.
GEORGE: Are you On Line?
CHRISTINA: Are you On Line?
GEORGE: As far as I'm concerned, the Internet is just another way to be rejected by a BIRDIE walks in. She is in her seventies, has white hair, and is tiny, like a little sparrow. She is the store's oldest employee, having worked there for over forty years, and serves as a accountant as well as salesperson.
KATHLEEN: Good morning, Birdie.
BIRDIE: What are you all talking about?
CHRISTINA: I tried to have cybersex once but I kept getting a busy signal.
BIRDIE: I tried to have cybersex once but I kept getting a busy signal.
CHRISTINA: I know, I know. One Saturday night I was really depressed about not having a date, so I thought, no problemo, I'll go on line and I won't be lonely, but I couldn't get on, there were hundreds of thousands of people who didn't have dates trying to get on.
GEORGE: Getting a date is harder. We hear the bell jingle as TWO WEST SIDE MOTHERS come in with two KIDS IN STROLLERS.
KATHLEEN: ( to the kids ) Jessica and Maia, how are you today? We hear the sound of the garbage truck. Kathleen goes out the front door to:
KATHLEEN: Hey, you forgot to pick up the garbage last week and I got a ticket. And you're late today I could have gotten We were here, there was no garbage.
GARBAGEMAN #1: We were here, there was no garbage.
GARBAGEMAN #2: Of course there was
KATHLEEN: Of course there was
GARBAGEMAN #1: What do you think, I don't want to pick up garbage? You think I go up and down the street picking up garbage, I'm not going to pick up yours? What's the matter with you?
GARBAGEMAN #2: Kathleen is standing there, tongue-tied.
GARBAGEMAN #1: You don't even bundle it right, you're supposed to bundle it and leave it near the curb, you leave it near the store and you use cheap garbage bags, they smear all over the place, and then I got to pick it up with my shovel
GARBAGEMAN #1: And now you're busting my chops. You're just another garbage pick-up to us, okay?
GARBAGEMAN #2: As Kathleen continues to stand there, speechless.
KATHLEEN: That guy went ballistic on me.
CHRISTINA: I hope you told him off.
KATHLEEN: Not exactly. Another customer enters the store. The bell jingles.
KEVIN: The electrical contractor called. His truck hit a deer last night, he won't be in 'til tomorrow. The shelves are late because the shipment of pine had beetles. And there's some question about whether we're installing the stairs in the right That sounds great.
JOE: That sounds great.
KEVIN: Testing one two three four.
JOE: Is the electrician here?
KEVIN: I just told you he hit a deer.
JOE: I hear nothing. Not a sound on the city streets, just the beat of my own heart. I think that's the way it goes. Something like that.
KEVIN: ( beginning to glean something ) Did you and Patricia get engaged?
JOE: Engaged? Are you crazy?
KEVIN: I thought you liked Patricia
JOE: I love Patricia. Patricia's amazing. Patricia makes coffee nervous. Are we still on schedule?
KEVIN: We open two weeks before Thanksgiving.
JOE: I guess we should announce ourselves soon. Tell people we're coming.
KEVIN: This is the Upper West Side of Manhattan. The minute they hear they'll be lining up
JOE: to picket
KEVIN: the big bad
JOE: chain store
KEVIN: that destroys
JOE: everything we hold dear. But we'll seduce them with our square footage and our deep armchairs and our amazingly swift checkout lines and our discounts and our.
JOE: They hate us in the beginning, but we get them in the end. Meanwhile we should just put up a sign Coming soon, a Foxbooks Superstore and The End of Western Civilization As We Know It.
JOE: Kevin and I are both a little concerned about the neighborhood response What is this fabric? Does it have a Money. Its name is money.
NELSON: Money. Its name is money.
JOE: Gillian selected it.
NELSON: Of course.
SCHUYLER: Your father is getting married again.
JOE: Oh, great, congratulations, Dad. Why?
NELSON: Who knows? Why does anyone get married?
JOE: Yes, that is one reason.
NELSON: Yes, that is one reason.
SCHUYLER: I think you're a damn fool.
NELSON: Dad, Matthew is four. It would be nice for him if his parents were married.
SCHUYLER: Annabel is eight and I'm not married to her mother. I can't even remember her mother's name.
JOE: I have a very sad announcement to make. City Books on 23rd Street is going under
NELSON: Another independent bookstore bites the On to the next.
SCHUYLER: On to the next.
JOE: And I'm buying their entire stock architecture, New York history for the new store.
NELSON: How much are your paying?
JOE: Whatever it costs, it won't be as much as this exquisite mohair episode. We're also going to have a section on West Side Writers
SCHUYLER: as a sop to the neighborhood.
NELSON: Perfect. It'll keep those West Side liberal nut pseudo-intellectual bleeding Readers. They're called readers.
JOE: Readers. They're called readers.
NELSON: Don't romanticize them. It'll keep them from jumping down your throat
SCHUYLER: What's the competition?
JOE: One mystery store. Sleuth, on 86th and Amsterdam. And a children's bookstore. The Shop Around the Corner. Been there Cecilia's store.
SCHUYLER: Cecilia's store.
JOE: Who's that?
SCHUYLER: Cecilia Kelly, lovely woman. I think we might have had a date once. Or maybe we just exchange letters.
JOE: You wrote her letters?
SCHUYLER: Mail. It was called mail.
NELSON: ( fondly nostalgic and kidding Stamps. Envelopes.
JOE: Wait. I've heard of it. It was a means of communication before I was born.
NELSON: Cecilia had beautiful penmanship. She was too young for me, but she was. enchanting. Her daughter owns it now.
SCHUYLER: Cecilia had beautiful penmanship. She was too young for me, but she was. enchanting. Her daughter owns it now.
NELSON: Too bad for her. As a DECORATOR walks into the office carrying a pile of upholstered pillows, and Joe turns to look at them.
TV REPORTER: The body of a woman was found this morning on the roof of a New York As George comes out of his building into a horde of REPORTERS with microphones, cameras, etc. and listens to the reporter, who, seeing George, sticks the microphone into his face.
TV REPORTER: Here is a resident of the building. Your name, please?
GEORGE: George Pappas.
REPORTER: Did you see or hear anything unusual last No. I didn't go out. At that moment, George sees a young woman. This is MEREDITH CARTER. He is struck dumb.
GEORGE: No. I didn't go out. At that moment, George sees a young woman. This is MEREDITH CARTER. He is struck dumb.
REPORTER: The victim was red-haired, about thirty- five, wearing a jogging suit. Did you encounter anyone by that description in the building? Sir? George hasn't heard a word.
REPORTER: Have there been any wild parties George doesn't answer.
REPORTER: Could it perhaps be one of your George continues to stare at the beautiful woman. As he does, she notices him. She stares back. The reporter, ignored, finally turns away.
REPORTER: ( to camera ) As you can see, no one here knows He continues to stand there, dumbstruck for a moment. Meredith Carter starts to walk away.
CHRISTINA: ( totally mystified ) never believed in them, but I just had Is that the thing where you get cold suddenly, bang?
GEORGE: never believed in them, but I just had Is that the thing where you get cold suddenly, bang?
BIRDIE: Is that the thing where you get cold suddenly, bang?
CHRISTINA: No, that's the
BIRDIE: I had that.
GEORGE: love suddenly, bang. A thunderbolt.
BIRDIE: I had that too. Only I had it in Seville, where it was called ,el estruendo de amor.
GEORGE: I don't know her name, or anything about her. I may never see her again.
CHRISTINA: And if you ever do meet her, you'll find out all the horrible details, and that will be that. She'll turn out to have pictures of the Virgin Mary all over the I won't care. Kathleen sticks her head into the back.
GEORGE: I won't care. Kathleen sticks her head into the back.
KATHLEEN: Can someone help me out here?
CHRISTINA: George had a
GEORGE: And Christina's making fun of me.
KATHLEEN: Don't let her. I believe in this, I completely believe in this. It happened to Madame Bovary, at least six times.
CHRISTINA: And she was wrong every time.
KATHLEEN: ( beat ) Who was she?
GEORGE: I don't know. She was standing outside my building with the police and the What police and reporters?
KATHLEEN: What police and reporters?
GEORGE: Someone died.
KATHLEEN: I have no idea about that either. They found her on the roof.
GEORGE: I have no idea about that either. They found her on the roof.
KATHLEEN: A dead body. That's so sad. But you fell in love. That's so great.
GEORGE: Oh. One other thing.
CHRISTINA: Quel nightmare.
KATHLEEN: It has nothing to do with us. It's big, impersonal, overstocked and full of ignorant salespeople.
GEORGE: But they discount.
KATHLEEN: But they don't provide any service. We George and Christina nod.
KATHLEEN: So really it's a good development. You know how in the flower district, there are all these flower shops in a row so you can find whatever you want. Well, this is going to be the book district. If you don't have it, we do.
BIRDIE: And vice versa.
FRANK: When you are finished with Foxbooks, the Shop Around the Corner is going to be responsible for reversing the entire course of the Industrial Revolution.
KATHLEEN: That is so sweet, Frank. Thank you. That is so sweet.
FRANK: He holds his arms out. They hug.
KATHLEEN: ( over his shoulder, she notices What is that doing there?
FRANK: ( over his shoulder, she notices What is that doing there?
KATHLEEN: ( over his shoulder, she notices What is that doing there?
FRANK: Listen to it. Just listen He strikes a key. Practically swoons.
FRANK: The Olympia Report deluxe Electric Report. As in gunshot.
KATHLEEN: That sound is familiar.
FRANK: Now listen to this. He puts his ear to the typewriter. Kathleen listens too.
KATHLEEN: That whirring?
FRANK: The gentle and soothing lullaby of a piece of machinery so perfect
KATHLEEN: I know where I've heard it before. I She whips a cover off the other typewriter on the table. It's the same machine exactly.
FRANK: I needed a backup.
KATHLEEN: Don't you have another one at your I might, I might. So what?
FRANK: I might, I might. So what?
KATHLEEN: You're turning my apartment into a typewriter museum.
FRANK: I'll stop. I'll try. I probably can't. I see one and my knees go weak. Anyway, what were you starting to say?
KATHLEEN: Come on.
FRANK: Come on.
KATHLEEN: Come on.
FRANK: Come on.
KATHLEEN: I don't know. I was just wondering about my work and all. I mean, what is it I do exactly? All I really do is run a All you really do is this incredibly noble thing Kathleen nods.
FRANK: All you really do is this incredibly noble thing Kathleen nods.
KATHLEEN: But I don't know if I
FRANK: ( stopping her ) But I just
KATHLEEN: But I just
FRANK: You are a lone reed. Kathleen looks puzzled. He sticks a piece of paper in the typewriter, starts typing.
FRANK: You are a lone reed waving in the breeze standing strong and tall in the corrupt sands of commerce. He whips the piece of paper out of the typewriter and hands it to her.
KATHLEEN: ( reading from it ) I am a lone reed. ( tries it on again ) I am a lone reed. Clutching her piece of paper, she wanders into the bathroom.
CHRISTINA: I went to the Foxbooks Website and you can buy anything. They ship it to you in a day. Maybe we should get a website.
KATHLEEN: My mother would never have wanted us to have a website. "Every book you sell is a gift from your heart." She always said As they walk toward the back of the cafe, Kathleen notices a stack of loose-leaf binders on the table.
CHRISTINA: What if they put us out of business?
KATHLEEN: It's out of the question. We're a fixture in the neighborhood. We're practically a landmark. Men For Women, Women for Men, Women for Women what is this?
CHRISTINA: You fill out one of these forms and they file it in the book and if someone wants to meet you, they arrange it.
KATHLEEN: What a stupid way to meet someone.
CHRISTINA: Compared to the Internet?
KATHLEEN: My little thing on the Internet is just a lark.
CHRISTINA: So it's still going on?
KATHLEEN: And I do not plan to meet him. Why do I get the feeling that you are in here somewhere? Christina flips the book open to her application.
CHRISTINA: I came in here one night and drank too much coffee and filled one out. Well how am I supposed to meet someone?
KATHLEEN: You are a runner. Some day you will make eye contact with another runner and
CHRISTINA: No one ever even looks at me. They don't. On top of which, who are they? They could like the symphony. I could never fall in love with someone who likes to go to the symphony
KATHLEEN: I know. What are you supposed to do I don't know.
CHRISTINA: I don't know.
KATHLEEN: Sit. You're supposed to sit.
CHRISTINA: I could never fall in love with anyone who smokes cigars either.
KATHLEEN: I'll tell you what I hate. Big fat legs like stumps.
CHRISTINA: Yeah. I hate that too.
KATHLEEN: The worst, the worst I could never, under any circumstances, love anybody who had a sailboat.
CHRISTINA: Neither could I.
KATHLEEN: If I had to get up on Saturday morning knowing that I was about to go down to the pier and unravel all those ropes and put on all that sunblock
CHRISTINA: All that talk about the wind.
KATHLEEN: And then you have to go out on the boat, and you sail and sail and sail until you are bored witless, and then, only then, do they say, let's turn around and you realize the trip is only half over, only it's not, because the wind has changed
CHRISTINA: It hasn't changed. It's died.
KATHLEEN: So then there's more talk about the wind. While you just float up and down trying not to get nauseous. And when you finally get back, you have to clean up the boat.
CHRISTINA: Why don't people have boat maids?
KATHLEEN: I know. There're all these people who wouldn't be caught dead polishing a doorknob in their house but put them on a boat and they want to rub down everything in sight.
ANNABEL: Joe jumps off the boat onto the dock to greet his grandfather's daughter ANNABEL, 8, who is coming toward the dock with GILLIAN, his father's overdecorated 32-year-old fiance, her son, MATTHEW, 4, and the Nanny, MAUREEN.
JOE: ( picks up Annabel ) Annabel, how are you today?
ANNABEL: ( picks up Matt ) Hey, big guy
JOE: ( picks up Matt ) Hey, big guy
GILLIAN: Don't I get a hello?
JOE: Hello, Gillian.
GILLIAN: Kiss me. I'm going to be your wicked Joe gives her a peck on the cheek.
JOE: Who is this?
GILLIAN: Nanny Maureen. I brought her in case you couldn't handle the kids.
ANNABEL: Maureen's getting a divorce.
JOE: I'm sorry to hear that.
MAUREEN: It's my own fault. Never marry a man who lies.
JOE: That is so wise. Remember that, Annabel.
ANNABEL: She taught Matt to spell his name.
MATT: Fox. F-O-X.
JOE: Excellent, Matt. Good work. You can have the day off. I'll take over from here. You must be late for something. Volunteer work at the Henry Street Settlement. Packing bandages for Bosnian refugees. A course in Chinese literature at Columbia.
GILLIAN: I am. I'm having my eggs harvested.
KATHLEEN: This is her best friend Tacy, whose real name is Anastasia, and then in the next book Betsy and Tacy become friends with Tib, whose real name, I am sorry to tell you, is Thelma. In another section of the store: George is showing Joe a first edition of Swiss Family Robinson from the glass case.
GEORGE: The illustrations are hand-tipped, which is why
JOE: It costs so much.
GEORGE: It's why it's Joe smiles and turns to see Kathleen and Annabel at a whole shelf of Betsy-Tacy books.
ANNABEL: I want all of them.
KATHLEEN: That might be an awful lot for your dad to buy at one time.
ANNABEL: My dad gets me all the books I want.
KATHLEEN: ( looking over at Joe ) Well, that's very nice of him.
ANNABEL: That's not my dad. That's my nephew
KATHLEEN: Oh, I don't really think that's your As Joe approaches.
JOE: It's true. Annabel is my aunt. Aren't you, Aunt Annabel? Annabel nods solemnly.
ANNABEL: And Matt is
KATHLEEN: Let me guess. Are you his uncle?
MATT: His grandfather? Annabel and Matt start giggling. His great-grandfather?
KATHLEEN: His grandfather? Annabel and Matt start giggling. His great-grandfather?
MATT: ( shouting with glee ) I'm his brother.
JOE: Annabel is my grandfather's daughter. And Matt is my father's son. We are an American family. He smiles at Kathleen, who finds herself smiling back. Annabel suddenly sneezes. Kathleen takes a handkerchief from her sleeve. It's an old fashioned hankie that's embroidered. She offers it to Annabel, who instead wipes her nose with her hand and then looks at the handkerchief, a little puzzled.
ANNABEL: What is that?
KATHLEEN: A handkerchief. Oh my, do children not even know what handkerchiefs are? A handkerchief is a Kleenex you don't throw away. My mother embroidered it for me you see? My initials and a daisy, because daisies are my favorite flower.
ANNABEL: Orchids are my favorite flower.
KATHLEEN: ( to Joe ) You know what else children don't know? They don't know what a telephone booth Joe is looking at Kathleen.
JOE: Who are you?
KATHLEEN: Kathleen Kelly. I own this store. Are you are?
JOE: Joe. Just call me Joe. We'll take these books. He gets the one Matt is reading. And the two other Kathleen has gotten for Annabel.
KATHLEEN: These are wonderful books. As Annabel gets older the characters in the books do, You can grow up with Betsy.
GEORGE: You're going to come back again, aren't Of course.
JOE: Of course.
GEORGE: This is why we're never going to go under. Our customers are loyal.
KATHLEEN: ( by way of explanation ) They're opening a Foxbooks around the Foxbooks! My Daddy
ANNABEL: Foxbooks! My Daddy
JOE: ( gently putting his hand over likes to buy at discount. Don't tell anyone that, Annabel, it's nothing to be proud of
MATT: ( spelling )
KATHLEEN: That's amazing. You can spell fox. Can you spell dog?
MATT: Matt, look at this dinosaur book. Wouldn't you like a dinosaur book? Annabel, maybe you could read this to Matt while I wrap things up here. Sit down, read, and don't listen to anything I say. Returns to counter and gives Kathleen some cash.
JOE: Matt, look at this dinosaur book. Wouldn't you like a dinosaur book? Annabel, maybe you could read this to Matt while I wrap things up here. Sit down, read, and don't listen to anything I say. Returns to counter and gives Kathleen some cash.
JOE: And the dinosaur book too.
KATHLEEN: The world is not driven by discounts, believe me. I've been in business forever. I started helping my mother here after school when I was six years old. I used to watch her, and it wasn't that she was selling books, it was that she was helping people become whoever they were going to turn out to be. When you read a book as a child it becomes part of your identity in a way that no other reading in your life does. I guess I've gotten carried away.
JOE: You have, and you've made me feel. He can't finish the sentence. He looks at her and sees, behind her on the shelf, a picture of a woman who is unmistakably Kathleen's mother, with a young Kathleen. Enchanting, your mother was enchanting.
KATHLEEN: She was. How did you know that?
JOE: Lucky guess.
KATHLEEN: Anyway. She left the store to me, and I'm going to leave it to my daughter.
JOE: How old is your daughter now?
KATHLEEN: Oh, I'm not married. But eventually. She smiles at Joe.
KATHLEEN: So Foxbooks can.
KATHLEEN: ( handing him his books ) Here you go.
JOE: We ready? Annabel and Matt join him at the counter. Kathleen gives them each a lollipop.
ANNABEL: Bye, Kathleen.
KATHLEEN: Goodbye, Annabel. Bye, Matt. What about cat? Can you spell cat?
MATT: INT. AUDITORIUM - DAY Someplace like the auditorium at the Museum of Broadcasting. PATRICIA EDEN, Joe's girlfriend, who is the editor-in-chief of a New York publishing house called Eden Books, is standing at a podium at a sales conference. In the audience are sales reps, wholesalers, etc. There's a screen behind her with pictures of the authors being flashed on it as she speaks. There's a burst of applause as a photograph of Veronica Grant flashes on screen. We see pictures of Veronica at eight with her sharecropper family, Veronica at 14 with her first child, Veronica with a series of husbands, Veronica in a wheelchair, etc. Now we see a blow-up of the book's jacket, with a picture of Veronica on it and the title: "Am I Rising from Ashes, or Did I Just Forget to Dust?" Patricia bursts into tears. Everyone applauds enthusiastically.
SARAH: ( quickly ) You have a dentist appointment in twenty minutes. So you should leave soon.
PATRICIA: What's my car number?
SARAH: Car? You didn't say anything about a car
PATRICIA: Are you an idiot? Of course I need a car. She walks toward the exit.
PATRICIA: Taxi! Taxi! Taxi! She whistles a longshoreman's whistle. The cab makes a U-turn, but instead of stopping for Patricia it stops about twenty feet ahead for a MAN in an overcoat who gets into it.
PATRICIA: Excuse me what are you doing? This is my taxicab. Don't take him. I am telling you right now, and I am memorizing your number, don't take him. Who the fuck do you think you are?
PATRICIA: MAN IN OVERCOAT Get in. I'll drop you.
PATRICIA: Veronica, it's Patricia, you should have been there, it was unbelievable, we're going to sell truckloads of your book. Call me. She hangs up, folds up the phone, puts it back in her purse as the cab moves on.
PATRICIA: MAN IN OVERCOAT I am a rabbi.
PATRICIA: Oh, my God, I said fuck to a rabbi. I'm I hope you don't mind my asking, but are you Jewish?
PATRICIA: MAN IN OVERCOAT You should come to our temple.
PATRICIA: I'm not really religious.
PATRICIA: You're kidding, right?
PATRICIA: EXT. KATHLEEN'S APARTMENT - NIGHT Frank comes up the stoop.
FRANK: I saw him. I actually saw him.
KATHLEEN: I can't believe it. I saw William I thought he was in Mexico.
FRANK: I can't believe it. I saw William I thought he was in Mexico.
KATHLEEN: I thought he was in Mexico.
FRANK: Maybe he's in Mexico, but today he was in New York. The most brilliant and reclusive novelist in the history of the world is here, in this neighborhood. He may be living on this very block.
KATHLEEN: Where did you see him?
FRANK: I was on the subway
FRANK: So I followed him. Frank sees Spungeon cross 79th. He follows.
FRANK: Do you know what this is worth? He takes an empty instant-frame from the closet, puts the puzzle into it and sets it next to the typewriters.
FRANK: What I was thinking as I was trailing him was that eventually I would have the courage to say hello to him, you know, not in a horrible, intrusive or slavering fan-slash-acolyte kind of way, but more like, "Hi." "How ya doing?" "Have you ever thought about trading up in the sock area?" "Who knows, maybe he's read my work and then we'd become friends, and eventually I'd introduce him to you you know how much he loves children's books, there's a whole long section in Relativity's Smile about The Wizard of Oz and then maybe he'd come out of hiding so he could help save the store.
KATHLEEN: What are you talking about?
FRANK: From Foxbooks. I mean, if things got tough, he could help rally support
KATHLEEN: It's never going to get to that. The store is fine.
FRANK: I don't even know why you would say that?
KATHLEEN: Neither do I. It just flew out of my There's enough business for us all.
FRANK: There's enough business for us all.
KATHLEEN: I mean, we're fine.
FRANK: You're more than fine, you're absolutely We're fine. The elevator opens onto:
KATHLEEN: We're fine. The elevator opens onto:
FRANK: Hey, Vince. Congratulations. You know Kathleen Kelly.
VINCE: How are you?
FRANK: Guess who I saw today on the subway? William Spungeon.
VINCE: I thought he was in Mexico. They start chatting. Across the room, Joe is with Patricia, who is telling two other people the story of meeting the rabbi in the taxicab. Joe looks over and sees Kathleen. He suddenly looks Shifts his position so Kathleen can't see his face, but sneaks a look.
PATRICIA: Would you get me another drink, sweetie? I'm all out. So then the rabbi says, "It's a very good place to calm down." Isn't that They all laugh. Joe moves over to the bar.
JOE: Absolut on the rocks. As he is waiting, Kathleen comes up next to him.
KATHLEEN: A white wine, please. Oh, hello.
JOE: Remember me, from the bookstore?
KATHLEEN: Remember me, from the bookstore?
JOE: Of course I remember you.
KATHLEEN: How's your aunt?
JOE: Good. She's good. I have to deliver this. I have a very thirsty date. She's part camel. Kathleen laughs.
KATHLEEN: Joe. It's Joe, isn't it?
JOE: And you're Kathleen. Joe vanishes into the party.
VINCE: I can't believe you were talking to Joe Joe Fox? As in She can't even finish the sentence.
KATHLEEN: Joe Fox? As in She can't even finish the sentence.
KATHLEEN: Fox? Your last name is Fox? Joe spins around, looks at her.
JOE: God, I didn't realize. I didn't know who
KATHLEEN: God, I didn't realize. I didn't know who
JOE: were with. ( quoting ) "I didn't know who you were with."
KATHLEEN: Excuse me?
JOE: It's from the Godfather. When the movie producer realizes that Tom Hagen is the emissary of Vito Corleone Kathleen is staring at him. just before the horse's head ends up in his bed never mind
KATHLEEN: You were spying on me, weren't you? You probably rented those children.
JOE: Why would I spy on you?
KATHLEEN: I am your competition. Which you know perfectly well or you would not have put up that sign saying "Just around the The entrance to our store is around the corner. There is no other way to say it. It's not the name of our store, it's where it is. You don't own "around the Next thing you'll be using twinkle Twinkle lights?
JOE: The entrance to our store is around the corner. There is no other way to say it. It's not the name of our store, it's where it is. You don't own "around the Next thing you'll be using twinkle Twinkle lights?
KATHLEEN: Next thing you'll be using twinkle Twinkle lights?
JOE: Twinkle lights?
KATHLEEN: Little white Christmas lights that twinkle. I use them in my window and on all my displays, as if you didn't notice.
JOE: Look, the reason I came into your store is that I was spending the day with Annabel and Matt. I like to buy them a present when I see them because I'm one of those guys who likes to buy his way into the hearts of children who are his relatives. There was only one place to buy children's books in the neighborhood although that will not always be the case, and it was yours, and it is a charming little bookstore. You probably sell $250,000 worth of book a year
KATHLEEN: How do you know that?
JOE: I'm in the book business.
KATHLEEN: Oh, I see, and we're the Price Club. Only instead of a ten-gallon can of olive oil for $3.99 that won't even fit into your kitchen cabinet, we're selling cheap books. Me a spy. Absolutely. And I managed to get my hands on a secret printout of the sales figures of a bookstore so inconsequential and yet full of its own virtue that I was instantly compelled to rush over and check it out for fear it would drive me out of business
JOE: Oh, I see, and we're the Price Club. Only instead of a ten-gallon can of olive oil for $3.99 that won't even fit into your kitchen cabinet, we're selling cheap books. Me a spy. Absolutely. And I managed to get my hands on a secret printout of the sales figures of a bookstore so inconsequential and yet full of its own virtue that I was instantly compelled to rush over and check it out for fear it would drive me out of business
FRANK: Hi. I'm Frank Navasky
JOE: Joe Fox.
FRANK: Joe Fox? Inventor of the Superstore, enemy of the mid-list novel, destroyer of City Books tell me something: How do you sleep at night? Patricia joins them.
PATRICIA: I use a wonderful over-the-counter drug, Ultrasom. Don't take the whole thing, just half, and you will wake up without even that tiniest hangover. You're Frank Navasky, aren't you?
FRANK: Your last piece in the Independent, the one about Anthony Powell, was brilliant. I'm Patricia Eden, Eden Books. Joe, this man is the greatest living expert on Julius and Ethel Rosenberg
PATRICIA: Your last piece in the Independent, the one about Anthony Powell, was brilliant. I'm Patricia Eden, Eden Books. Joe, this man is the greatest living expert on Julius and Ethel Rosenberg
JOE: And this is Kathleen Kelly Kathleen glares at him.
FRANK: You liked my piece. God, I'm flattered. You know you write these things and you think someone's going to mention them and then the whole week goes by and the phone doesn't ring, and you think Oh, God, I'm a fraud, a failure
PATRICIA: You know what's always fascinated me about Julius and Ethel Rosenberg is how old they looked when they were really just our age. Everyone is stopped dead by this observation and looks at Patricia, who smiles at them all.
PATRICIA: ( to Frank ) I'm so happy to have finally met you. We will talk. Have you ever thought about doing a book?
FRANK: Oh sure, it's passed through my head. Something really relevant for today like the Luddite movement in 19th century At the same time:
JOE: INT. KATHLEEN'S BEDROOM - NIGHT As Kathleen and Frank get into bed.
KATHLEEN: INT. KATHLEEN'S BEDROOM - NIGHT As Kathleen and Frank get into bed.
FRANK: I really like Patricia Eden. She's a very nice person. Kathleen doesn't respond. Frank turns out the light.
FRANK: She needs educating, that's all. A beat.
FRANK: She's hopelessly driven by money and power, but there's a hope for anyone who's that familiar with my work On Kathleen, as she turns away from Frank and lies there, eyes open.
PATRICIA: I had no idea that Frank Navasky was so Joe doesn't respond. Patricia turns out the light.
PATRICIA: You read his stuff, you think he's going to be so obscure and abstruse. A beat. He's always talking about Heidigger and Foucault and I have no idea what any of it's about, really. Joe gets up. Brinkley follows. Where are you going?
JOE: I'm not really tired.
KATHLEEN: Meet? Omigod. She sits staring at the letter. She has no idea what to do.
JOE: No pickets, no demonstrations.
KEVIN: The neighborhood loves us.
NELSON: They're wondering where we've been all these years. They're wondering how they ever did without it.
SCHUYLER: It's a hit. They admire their own store, walk through the downstairs and start up the staircase to the second floor.
NELSON: How's the children's book department?
JOE: It's early yet. School isn't out. And there's that children's bookstore nearby
SCHUYLER: Cecilia's store
JOE: Her daughter's
NELSON: We'll crush it
SCHUYLER: She was enchanting. And as they walk on upstairs, several mothers with children come up the stairs behind them.
BIRDIE: About $1200 less than the same week last That could be a fluke, right? They look at each other.
KATHLEEN: That could be a fluke, right? They look at each other.
BIRDIE: Or not.
KATHLEEN: Their store is new. It's a novelty. But it will all shake out. Do you think I should put up more twinkle lights?
BIRDIE: That's a lovely idea.
CHRISTINA: What if we have to fold? I'll never find another part time job and I won't be able to pay the rent and I'll have to move to The joy of rent control. Six room for $450 a month.
GEORGE: The joy of rent control. Six room for $450 a month.
CHRISTINA: We know. You've told us a million times. I can't believe you're bringing it up at a time like this. It's like bragging because you're tall. Birdie never brags about her rent and she pays even less than you.
BIRDIE: Ten rooms. I just rattle around from one to the other.
KATHLEEN: Hey, guys. We are not going to fold. The door opens, and Meredith Carter, the woman George had swooned over in front of his building, walks in. George stares, frozen in place, as she walks up to him.
MEREDITH: George Pappas?
GEORGE: ( I have died and gone to ( flashing her badge ) Detective Carter, 23rd precinct. I'd like to ask you a few questions. Kathleen suddenly sees George, following Meredith out of the store. He's in a complete daze.
MEREDITH: ( flashing her badge ) Detective Carter, 23rd precinct. I'd like to ask you a few questions. Kathleen suddenly sees George, following Meredith out of the store. He's in a complete daze.
KATHLEEN: George? Where are you going? He goes out the door. LAURA MARGULIES, a well-known children's book author, enters as George leaves.
LAURA: Kathleen, are you surviving?
KATHLEEN: Laura! We're so excited about your new book. When should we schedule your Oh, it's being published in January. Are you going to be in business in January? I'm so worried.
LAURA: Oh, it's being published in January. Are you going to be in business in January? I'm so worried.
KATHLEEN: We're doing great, aren't we?
CHRISTINA: No difference whatsoever.
BIRDIE: No difference whatsoever.
LAURA: Thank God. Well, you know you can count on me. For anything, support, rallies. Picket lines. We can get the Times to write something. Or that nut in the What nut in the Independent?
KATHLEEN: What nut in the Independent?
LAURA: Frank Navasky. This is just the sort of thing that would outrage him. She smiles brightly.
MEREDITH: Mr. Pappas, I'm investigating the murder of the woman found on the roof of your building. Do you live alone there?
GEORGE: Do I live alone? Yes I do. Do you live George takes her hand in his and looks at it as if it were the eighth wonder of the world. He starts stroking it, caressing it. Meredith pulls it away. A beat. Then she gives it right back to him. He continues stroking. They stare at each other. He puts her fingers into his mouth.
MEREDITH: George takes her hand in his and looks at it as if it were the eighth wonder of the world. He starts stroking it, caressing it. Meredith pulls it away. A beat. Then she gives it right back to him. He continues stroking. They stare at each other. He puts her fingers into his mouth.
MEREDITH: ( overwhelmed ) What are you doing?
GEORGE: I don't know. I have no idea.
MEREDITH: You have to stop.
GEORGE: I can't. She utters a little moan.
CASHIER: This is a Cash Only line.
KATHLEEN: Cash Only.
CASHIER: Cash Only.
KATHLEEN: Omigod, I only have a credit card. Is that okay?
CASHIER: There's a sign.
ANOTHER PERSON: Get on another line, lady.
JOE: Oh, hello.
KATHLEEN: Do you need some money?
JOE: Do you need some money?
KATHLEEN: No, I don't need any money. Thank you very much.
CASHIER: Get on another line.
JOE: ( off her nametag, big smile ) Rose. Great name. Rose, this is Kathleen, I'm Joe, and this is a credit card machine. Happy Thanksgiving. Rose just stares at him. Now it's your turn to say happy Thanksgiving back.
ROSE: Happy Thanksgiving back. Joe looks at her, winks.
JOE: Mississippi is a hard word to spell. How do you spell it? I-T. Now take this credit card and put it through the machine, zip zip. The cashier, completely charmed, takes Kathleen's credit Kathleen is appalled. Everyone on the line signs irritably and audibly.
JOE: So you're fine.
KATHLEEN: Happy Thanksgiving. As Kathleen signs the charge slip and the cashier exasperatedly starts to put her groceries into a bag.
JOE: Happy Thanksgiving. As Kathleen signs the charge slip and the cashier exasperatedly starts to put her groceries into a bag.
ANNABEL: The sun'll come up tomorrow, bet your bottom dollar that tomorrow, there'll be Joe is on a loveseat with Matt. Gillian lifts Matt up, sits down in his place next to Joe and plunks Matt into her lap. Nelson is already seated in a chair in front of the loveseat and can't see her without turning around. As she continues singing, Gillian moves her hand next to Joe's leg. Joe edges away. He looks around the room, sees Nanny Maureen standing behind the couch. He stands, offers her his seat. She sits.
YOUNG KATHLEEN: Hey, watch out
KATHLEEN: ( to herself ) The Godfather? She starts to type.
PATRICIA: Look what I bought. Joe types "Ciao" and signs off. Looks up to see Patricia showing him a Plexiglas menorah.
PATRICIA: I was just passing this store on Columbus Avenue and it caught my eye.
JOE: What is it?
PATRICIA: A Menorah.
JOE: It doesn't look like a Menorah.
PATRICIA: I know. I don't know what came over me. I don't even celebrate Hanukkah.
KATHLEEN: Frank, I've decided to go to the mattresses. Do you think it would be a gigantic conflict of interest if you wrote something about us?
BIRDIE: ( reading ) "Kathleen Kelly and her mother Cecilia Kelly have raised your children. If this precious resource is killed by the cold cash cow of Foxbooks, it will not only be the end of Western civilization as we know it, but the end of something even dearer: our neighborhood as we know it. Save the Shop Around the Corner and you will save your own soul." Frank, that's You think it's a little over the top?
FRANK: You think it's a little over the top?
BIRDIE: Just say thank you.
FRANK: Thank you.
CHRISTINA: ( calling to Kathleen ) Channel 2's outside.
KATHLEEN: In a second.
GEORGE: ( from the other room ) The Village Voice is coming.
KATHLEEN: Frank sticks his head in.
FRANK: ( in shock ) It's him.
KATHLEEN: God. It is God.
FRANK: God. It is God.
WILLIAM SPUNGEON: I'm William Spungeon.
KATHLEEN: I'm very pleased to meet you. I'm Kathleen Kelly. Frank is practically levitating.
SPUNGEON: I knew your mother. Although she knew me only as W. That enormous bookstore is I'm Frank Navasky. I carry your picture in my wallet. He pulls it out. Spungeon looks at him like he's crazy.
FRANK: I'm Frank Navasky. I carry your picture in my wallet. He pulls it out. Spungeon looks at him like he's crazy.
KATHLEEN: We've organized pickets. Channel 13 is doing a special.
SPUNGEON: I'd be glad to talk to the press if it's all right with you. They've been trying to interview me for years.
FRANK: The press? I'm the press.
KATHLEEN: You'd allow that? For me? For the store? That's incredible. Although you wouldn't have to be photographed. I respect that. If it's television, they could just put one of those blurry dots in front of your face.
SPUNGEON: No television.
CHRISTINA: ( referring to the TV crew ) They're waiting for you
FRANK: I know all your books. Phaelox the gnome, the little man who comes from nowhere. and is going nowhere. "Where did you come from?" "Nowhere." "Where are you going?" "Nowhere."
SPUNGEON: Cool it. I'm starting to break out in Here's my phone number.
KATHLEEN: I had no idea William Spugeon had a He gives a little wave and leaves.
SPUNGEON: He gives a little wave and leaves.
FRANK: This is historic. Do you realize what I've done? By writing that piece, do you realize? I've brought William Spungeon in from the cold. Holy shit. I am completely At that moment a TV REPORTER sticks her head into the store.
TV REPORTER: Kathleen Kelly? Kathleen takes a deep breath, walks out the door.
KATHLEEN: Luca Brasi sleeps with the fishes.
KATHLEEN: Never mind. I'm ready. Shoot.
KATHLEEN: They have to have discounts and lattes, because most of the people who work there have never read a book. And pull back now to reveal that we're in:
JOE: She's not as nice as she seems on You've met her?
KEVIN: You've met her?
JOE: She's kind of a pill.
KEVIN: She's probably not as attractive as she seems on television either.
JOE: No, she's beautiful. But a pill.
KEVIN: So you don't feel bad about basically destroying her livelihood not to mention her legacy not to mention her raison It's not personal
JOE: It's not personal
KEVIN: It's business.
JOE: Right. Exactly. They look up at the television.
JOE: I sell cheap books. Sue me. I sell cheap books, and as a result listen to this, because it's really bad more people can buy books. The show immediately cuts back to the newscaster. On Joe and Kevin.
KEVIN: That's what you said?
JOE: ( outraged ) That's not all I said. I said I can't believe those bastards I said we were great, I said people can come and sit and read for hours and no one bothers them, I said we stock 150,000 titles, I showed them the New York City section. I said we were a goddamn piazza where people could mingle and mix and be.
KEVIN: A piazza?
JOE: I was eloquent. Shit. It's just inevitable, isn't it? People are going to want to turn her into Joan of Arc
KEVIN: and you into Attila the Hun.
JOE: Well it's not me personally, it's more like it's the company
KATHLEEN: ( on the television ) And I have to say, I have met Joe Fox, who owns Foxbooks, and I have heard him compared his store to a Price Club and the books in it to cans of olive oil. On Joe, reacting.
KATHLEEN: My mother used to say to me that every book you sell is a gift from the EXT. FOXBOOKS - DAY As 20 CHILDREN march in front of the store, holding little makeshift picket signs and singing songs. "One, two, three, four, we don't want this Superstore." Customers go right through the line and into the store.
SCHUYLER: Who is this Spungeon anyway?
JOE: He's a writer.
NELSON: Well, I've never heard of him. And neither has anyone else in this place.
FRANK: Thank you.
FRANK: Well, I knew William Spungeon loved children's books so I wrote a provocative Your specialty. Frank laughs. Sidney-Ann laughs.
FRANK: And it kind of smoked him out.
KATHLEEN: ( appalled ) Hey, I was just being polite. Okay, I admit, I slobbered all over her. The show continues.
FRANK: Hey, I was just being polite. Okay, I admit, I slobbered all over her. The show continues.
GEORGE: And I can't decide whether to put sausages into the meat sauce or just chopped meat. Last time I made it, Detective Carter and I never even sat down to dinner because and last night, I made margaritas in the blender, and I took the ice cube and
BIRDIE: Spare us. George goes out the door. Birdie looks at Kathleen.
KATHLEEN: Don't tell me. Not the slightest Birdie can't bring herself to answer. How could that be? All this publicity and not one bit of difference? Oh Birdie, what am I going to do? What would Mom have done?
BIRDIE: Let's ask her. She opens the locket hanging around her neck. There's a picture of Kathleen's mother inside it. Birdie holds the locket up to her face.
BIRDIE: Cecilia, what should we do? Birdie holds the locket to her ear and listens. A pause.
KATHLEEN: ( after a beat, shrugs ) She has no idea, but she thinks the window display is lovely. Good night Birdie smiles and picks up her shopping bag, goes out the EXT. SHOP AROUND THE CORNER - NIGHT It's starting to rain. Kathleen lowers the grate over the store. As she turns to walk away, William Spungeon steps in her path out of the shadows.
BIRDIE: ( after a beat, shrugs ) She has no idea, but she thinks the window display is lovely. Good night Birdie smiles and picks up her shopping bag, goes out the EXT. SHOP AROUND THE CORNER - NIGHT It's starting to rain. Kathleen lowers the grate over the store. As she turns to walk away, William Spungeon steps in her path out of the shadows.
KATHLEEN: Oh my goodness, hello. What are you doing here.
SPUNGEON: Loitering. Lurking. Skulking. He laughs. So does she. Dramatically, he whips out an umbrella and opens it over the two of them. You look very beautiful.
KATHLEEN: Thank you. But I'm a wreck. He touches her cheek suddenly. Kathleen starts. Then he blows on his hand.
SPUNGEON: An eyelash. It's gone. Kathleen relaxes. They start walking.
KATHLEEN: Are you writing another book?
SPUNGEON: I'm in the home stretch. I'll be done in approximately six more years.
KATHLEEN: Should I discount?
SPUNGEON: It's about a man on a quest for knowledge who meets a woman he cannot resist.
KATHLEEN: If I discount I have to fire someone because I can't discount with this overhead but whom could I fire? I couldn't fire anyone. Spungeon suddenly puts his hand through Kathleen's hair. She stops, frozen in place.
SPUNGEON: You have your mother's hair. Thick, wild, the color of Nebraska wheat. He grabs her and tries to kiss her.
KATHLEEN: What are you doing? Let me go. He backs her into a wall.
KATHLEEN: Stop it. Are you crazy? She kicks him in the shins, wiggles free and runs away.
SPUNGEON: ( calling after her ) If you change your mind, you can E-mail me. Hermit@AOL.com.
KATHLEEN: We're meeting in a public place.
CHRISTINA: Well don't go anywhere with him. Don't even go out to the street with him afterwards. Get a dial cab to just sit there and wait for you.
GEORGE: Did you tell Frank?
KATHLEEN: There's nothing to tell.
CHRISTINA: But did you tell him?
KATHLEEN: He's away. At the 32nd anniversary of the Chicago Seven trial.
GEORGE: And he's gone to a place where there are no phones. Do you even know this guy's Kathleen shakes her head no.
CHRISTINA: And you're going to meet him in a bar?
KATHLEEN: Not a bar. That place on 83rd with the And he will wear a flower in his lapel, and you will be carrying a copy of Anna Karenina with a rose in it. No answer.
GEORGE: And he will wear a flower in his lapel, and you will be carrying a copy of Anna Karenina with a rose in it. No answer.
CHRISTINA: Oh God, no.
KATHLEEN: Not Anna Karenina. Pride and Prejudice.
KEVIN: I suppose she's carrying a copy of a book with a flower in it. Joe doesn't say anything.
KEVIN: Not really.
JOE: Which Jane Austen is it?
KEVIN: Which Jane Austen is it?
JOE: Pride and Prejudice.
KEVIN: She could be a real dog.
JOE: I know. Look, I'll just stay ten minutes. I'll say hello. Drink a cup of coffee and split. I'm outta here. He looks at Kevin. Walk me there, okay?
JOE: What if she has a really high, squeaky voice? I hate that. It reminds me of those mice in Cinderella.
KEVIN: What mice in Cinderella?
JOE: Gus-gus and oh shit, I can't remember the other one. Why am I compelled to meet her? I'm just ruining a good thing.
KEVIN: You're taking it to the next level. I always do that. I always take a relationship to the next level, and if it works okay I take it to the next level after that, until I can finally get to the level where it becomes absolutely necessary for me to leave.
JOE: I'm not going to stay long anyway. I already said that, didn't I. Christ. I'm a total wreck. As they reach:
JOE: Kevin, this woman is the most adorable creature I have ever come in contact with. If she turns out to be even as good-looking as a mailbox, I will be crazy not to turn my life upside down and marry her.
KEVIN: She could be a real dog.
JOE: ( a total panic ) You go look.
KEVIN: Just go to the window and check her out.
JOE: Just go to the window and check her out.
KEVIN: You're pathetic. Kevin goes to the window and looks inside.
JOE: See her?
KEVIN: There's a beautiful, whoa, a very beautiful girl.
JOE: But no book. Let me see, let me see. Wait a minute. There's a book with a flower, so it must be her.
KEVIN: But no book. Let me see, let me see. Wait a minute. There's a book with a flower, so it must be her.
JOE: What does he look like?
KEVIN: There's a waiter blocking, I can't see her face. He's serving her a cup of tea and she's putting in three spoonfuls of Well, why shouldn't she?
JOE: Well, why shouldn't she?
KEVIN: No reason. Unless she has hypoglycemia. Oh, he's moving.
JOE: Can you see her?
KEVIN: ( clearly frustrated ) She's very pretty.
JOE: ( clearly frustrated ) She's very pretty.
KEVIN: ( clearly frustrated ) She's very pretty.
JOE: She is. I knew she would be. She had to be.
KEVIN: She looks. I would say she has a little of the coloring of that Kathleen Kelly Kathleen Kelly of the bookstore.
JOE: Kathleen Kelly of the bookstore.
KEVIN: Why not? You said you thought she was So what? Who cares about Kathleen Kelly?
JOE: So what? Who cares about Kathleen Kelly?
KEVIN: Well, if you don't like Kathleen Kelly, I can tell you right now you ain't gonna like this girl.
JOE: Why not?
KEVIN: Because it Joe elbows Kevin aside and looks.
JOE: Oh, God. A long beat.
KEVIN: What are you going to do?
JOE: You're going to let her just wait there?
KEVIN: You're going to let her just wait there?
JOE: Yes. Yes I am. That's exactly what I'm going to do. Why not?
KEVIN: But she wrote the letters.
JOE: Good night, Kevin. I'll see you He walks away, leaving Kevin. Kevin stares after him. Then he walks away in the other INT. CAFE LALO - CONTINUOUS Kathleen, sitting alone, at a table for two, is drinking her tea. She's starting to feel a little foolish. She checks her watch. A loud, boisterous group comes in and sits at the table next to hers. They're laughing. A man from the group grabs the empty chair at Kathleen's table.
MAN: Do you mind? Kathleen jumps up.
KATHLEEN: Oh, yes. I'm expecting someone. She takes the chair back. Sits down again. She watches the group as they playfully fight over the menus. She checks her watch again. Then she opens her copy of Pride and Prejudice and looks at it. She can't focus. A man comes into the restaurant and she looks up hopefully at him. But he's going to meet another group of people. As he passes her table, he knocks the book and the flower onto the floor.
KATHLEEN: She jumps up and rescues the book and flower as if they were precious china. In the window, now, behind her, Joe appears. He watches, as she rearranges the book and the flower. He disappears from sight. A beat. He walks in the door.
JOE: Kathleen Kelly. Hello. What a coincidence. Mind if I sit down?
KATHLEEN: Yes I do. I'm expecting someone. Joe picks up her book, looks at it.
JOE: Pride and Prejudice. Kathleen grabs it back.
KATHLEEN: Do you mind? She places it back on the table, puts the rose into it.
JOE: I didn't know you were a Jane Austen fan. Not that it's a surprise. I bet you read it every year. I bet you just love Mr. Darcy, and that your sentimental heart beats wildly at the thought that he and whatever her name is are really, honestly and truly going to end up Would you please leave? Joe sits down.
KATHLEEN: Would you please leave? Joe sits down.
KATHLEEN: I'll get up as soon as your friend comes. Is he late?
JOE: I'll get up as soon as your friend comes. Is he late?
KATHLEEN: The heroine of Pride and Prejudice is Elizabeth Bennet and she's one of the greatest, most complex characters ever written, not that you would know.
JOE: As a matter of fact I've read it.
KATHLEEN: Well, good for you.
JOE: I think you'd discover a lot of things if you really knew me.
KATHLEEN: If I really knew you, I know what I would find instead of a brain, a cash register, instead of a heart, a bottom Kathleen is shocked at herself.
JOE: What is it?
KATHLEEN: I just had a breakthrough, and I have to thank you for it. For the first time in my life, when confronted with a horrible, insensitive person I actually knew what I wanted to say and I said it.
JOE: I think you have a gift for it. It was a splendid mixture of poetry and meanness.
KATHLEEN: Meanness? Let me tell you
JOE: Don't misunderstand me, I'm just paying you a compliment. He lifts the book off the table. Kathleen grabs for it.
KATHLEEN: Why are you doing this? She manages to get the book, leaving Joe with the rose.
JOE: What have we have? A red, no, crimson rose, tucked into the pages. Something you read about in a book, no doubt. One of those books with a lady in a nightgown on the cover about to throw herself off a She holds her hand out for it. Give it to me. Joe puts it between his mouth and his nose like a mustache.
JOE: It's a joke to you, isn't it? Everything's a joke to you. She grabs the rose. Puts it back in the book. Please leave. I beg you. He stands up, walks from the table, sits down at the very next table, with his back to her. The door to the restaurant opens. Kathleen looks at it hopefully. A pleasant looking man, who's immediately joined by a pleasant looking woman. For a moment, Kathleen looks just a little droopy, as if the wind has just gone out of her sails. She takes out her compact, looks into her mirror. She slides it over to look behind her, at him, just as he's looking sideways at her. He turns away suddenly. Then she blots her lipstick with her handkerchief.
JOE: You know what the handkerchief reminds me of? The first day I met you
KATHLEEN: The first day you lied to me
JOE: I didn't lie to you
KATHLEEN: You did too
JOE: I did not
KATHLEEN: I thought all that Fox stuff was so charming. F-O-X.
JOE: I never lied about it
KATHLEEN: "Joe. Just call me Joe." As if you were one of those stupid 22-year-old girls with no last name. "Hi, I'm Kimberley." "Hi, I'm Janice." What's wrong with them? Don't they know you're supposed to have last names? It's like they're a whole generation of cocktail waitresses. She stops herself it's a tangent she never meant to go off on. But Joe has stood up and seated himself back at her I am not a stupid 22-year-old girl
JOE: I am not a stupid 22-year-old girl
KATHLEEN: That's not what I meant
JOE: And when I said the thing about the Price Club and cans of olive oil, that wasn't what I meant either
KATHLEEN: Oh, you poor sad multimillionaire. I feel so sorry for you. The door opens and a large and very attractive TRANSVESTITE in a boa comes in the door.
JOE: I am going to take a wild guess that this isn't him, either. Who is he, I wonder. Not, I gather, the world's greatest living expert on Julius and Ethel Rosenberg, but someone else entirely. Will you be you be mean to him too? Will you start out sweet as sugar candy and then suddenly, miraculously, like a bolt from the blue, find that sharp little tongue of yours?
KATHLEEN: No, I won't. Because the man who's coming here tonight is completely unlike you. The man who is coming here is kind and funny he has the most wonderful sense of humor
JOE: But he's not here.
KATHLEEN: If he's not here, he has a reason, because there is not a cruel or careless bone in his body. I can't expect you to know anything about a person like that. You've nothing but a suit. A beat. Joe gets up.
JOE: That is my cue. Good night. Joe leaves.
KEVIN: But underneath that disagreeable exterior she could turn out to be
JOE: A real bitch. Let's not talk about it. I'm going back to the office. You must have work to do.
KEVIN: Not really. This place is humming like a EXT. SHOP AROUND THE CORNER - DAY As Kathleen comes around the corner. Christina is waiting.
CHRISTINA: What happened?
KATHLEEN: He never came.
CHRISTINA: He stood you up?
KATHLEEN: I think something happened, something terrible and unexpected that made it impossible for him George walks in.
GEORGE: What happened?
KATHLEEN: He wasn't able to make it.
GEORGE: He stood you up.
KATHLEEN: What could have happened? George looks suddenly stricken. Why didn't he come? Maybe he showed up, took one look at me and left.
CHRISTINA: Not possible.
KATHLEEN: Maybe there was a subway accident.
CHRISTINA: A train was trapped underground with him And no phone. George continues to look stricken. He's starting to shake his head.
KATHLEEN: A train was trapped underground with him And no phone. George continues to look stricken. He's starting to shake his head.
CHRISTINA: And no phone. George continues to look stricken. He's starting to shake his head.
KATHLEEN: Or an automobile accident. Those cab drivers are maniacs.
CHRISTINA: They hit something and you slam right into that plastic partition.
KATHLEEN: His elbows could be in splints so he can't really dial
CHRISTINA: Or he could be in the hospital in one of those semi-private room with like
KATHLEEN: ( to George ) George hands them a New York Post. They look at the cover:
KATHLEEN: What are you saying?
GEORGE: It could be. Dead silence. He was arrested two blocks from the cheesecake place.
CHRISTINA: Is there a picture? There it is. It's of a man with his jacket pulled over his They all look at it.
CHRISTINA: So that explains it.
GEORGE: He was in jail.
CHRISTINA: And there
GEORGE: but he got only one call and he had to use it to call his lawyer.
CHRISTINA: You are so lucky.
GEORGE: You could be dead.
KATHLEEN: Are you crazy? This man couldn't possibly be the rooftop killer.
CHRISTINA: Remember when you thought Frank might be the Unabomber?
KATHLEEN: That was different.
CHRISTINA: How long did you sit there all alone?
KATHLEEN: Not that long. Joe Fox came in
CHRISTINA: Joe Fox!
KATHLEEN: I don't want to talk about it. Let's get to work. They look around. There's no one in the store and nothing to A pause.
KATHLEEN: There must be something to do. There's always something to do. They hear the jingle of the front door. They look hopefully toward it. It's only Birdie.
CHRISTINA: He stood her up. Hold on Kathleen as the computer sound begins.
COMPUTER: Joe stands and leaves the room. The computer sits there. Hold on the computer. We hear him open the refrigerator door. We hear him close the refrigerator door. He passes the den without even looking into it. A moment later he comes back into the room, stares at the computer. He starts for the bedroom, changes his mind. Circles the computer. He's going to go cold turkey if it kills him. Fuck it. He sits down. Sign on. Starts to type.
JOE: Fuck you. He clicks the Yes box. Then he starts to type again.
CHRISTINA: Did he say anything about meeting again?
KATHLEEN: Not really. It doesn't matter. We'll just be like George Bernard Shaw and Mrs. Patrick Campbell and write letters our whole lives They go into an apartment building.
CHRISTINA: Where was this taken, Birdie?
BIRDIE: When you had the thunderbolt?
KATHLEEN: When you had the thunderbolt?
BIRDIE: Yes. What did you decide, dearie?
KATHLEEN: Close. We're going to close.
CHRISTINA: Although it feels like such a failure. It feels like I'm quitting. It feels like. Mom. She closes her eyes. Birdie sits down on the loveseat next to Kathleen, puts her arms around her. Hold on them.
KATHLEEN: Although it feels like such a failure. It feels like I'm quitting. It feels like. Mom. She closes her eyes. Birdie sits down on the loveseat next to Kathleen, puts her arms around her. Hold on them.
BIRDIE: Keeping the store open doesn't keep your mother alive, although sometimes I think we all think it does. Christina looks over at the picture of Birdie.
CHRISTINA: Who was it, Birdie? That you had the thunderbolt over? Birdie shakes her head. She's not going to tell them. It's so romantic.
BIRDIE: But it wasn't meant to be.
CHRISTINA: Why not?
BIRDIE: He ran Spain.
CHRISTINA: The country. He ran it. That was his job. And then he died. Just as well.
BIRDIE: The country. He ran it. That was his job. And then he died. Just as well.
FRANK: She fell in love with Generalissimo Don't say that. We don't know that for Who else could it have been? It was probably around 1960
KATHLEEN: Don't say that. We don't know that for Who else could it have been? It was probably around 1960
FRANK: Who else could it have been? It was probably around 1960
KATHLEEN: I mean, it's not like he was something normal, like a socialist or an anarchist or something
FRANK: It happened in Spain. People do really stupid things in foreign countries.
KATHLEEN: Absolutely. They buy leather jackets, they go see Flamenco, they ride in gondolas, they eat in restaurants where guitarists sing Malaguena sola Rosa, but they don't fall in love with fascist They enters one of the theatres.
KATHLEEN: Birdie is a very kind person, she's practically my surrogate mother.
FRANK: Well she's out of her mind.
KATHLEEN: She is not.
FRANK: I could never ever be with anyone who doesn't take politics as seriously as I The person in front of them turns around.
FRANK: A hot dog is singing. You need quiet while a hot dog is singing? The two of them sit there.
KATHLEEN: I have something to tell you. I didn't In the last mayoral election, when Rudy Giuliani was running against Ruth Messinger, I went to get a manicure and forgot to vote.
FRANK: In the last mayoral election, when Rudy Giuliani was running against Ruth Messinger, I went to get a manicure and forgot to vote.
KATHLEEN: In the last mayoral election, when Rudy Giuliani was running against Ruth Messinger, I went to get a manicure and forgot to vote.
FRANK: Since when do you get manicures?
KATHLEEN: Oh, I suppose you could never be with a woman who gets manicures.
FRANK: Forget it. It's okay. I forgive you.
KATHLEEN: You forgive me. Hold on them a beat. Kathleen stands and walks out of the theatre.
FRANK: What's going on? Kathleen's upset. Hey. What is it?
FRANK: Look, this has been a big week, you're closing the store
KATHLEEN: It's not that, Frank, really it's not. It's just. Frank.
FRANK: I know, that was terrible of me.
KATHLEEN: What was?
FRANK: To jump all over you when I'm the one who's really. Oh, God, I don't know how to say this
KATHLEEN: What is it?
FRANK: You're a wonderful person, Kathleen.
KATHLEEN: So are you.
FRANK: And I'm honored that you want to be with me because you would never be with anyone who wasn't truly worthy
KATHLEEN: I feel exactly the same way about you.
FRANK: Oh, God, don't say that, please, that just makes it worse.
KATHLEEN: ( he shakes his head ) You don't love me? Frank shakes his head no.
KATHLEEN: Me either.
FRANK: You don't love me? Kathleen shakes her head no.
FRANK: But we're so right for each other.
KATHLEEN: I know. A long beat.
KATHLEEN: That woman on television, right? Frank nods.
FRANK: I mean, nothing's happened or anything.
KATHLEEN: I think she's a Republican.
FRANK: I can't help myself. Kathleen pats him. What about you? Is there someone else?
KATHLEEN: Oh, somewhere out there, I'm sure. In cyberspace.
WOMAN SHOPPER: This is a tragedy. Honey, grab a copy of The Trumpet of the and in a week, it will be something really depressing, like a Baby Gap. I am being amazingly brave
WOMAN SHOPPER: What are you going to do with yourself?
KATHLEEN: I don't know. I'm going to take some time. I have a little money saved. I'm almost looking forward to it I am so cheerful I would make Pollyanna throw up.
SECOND SHOPPER: I came here every Saturday when I was a little girl. I remember when your mother gave me Anne of Green Gables. "Read it with a box of Kleenex," that's what she told me.
THIRD SHOPPER: She's looking down on you right now.
KATHLEEN: I'm sure she is. I have promised myself I'm not going to cry. A FORTH SHOPPER approaches the counter with a stack of books up to his chin, and manages to slide the stack on the We should bomb Foxbooks.
FOURTH SHOPPER: We should bomb Foxbooks.
KATHLEEN: It's not their fault. The truth is, the world is just. different. She starts ringing up the sale.
WOMAN SHOPPER: Do you have the "Shoe" books?
SALESPERSON: The "Shoe" books? Who's the author?
WOMAN SHOPPER: I don't know. My friend told me my daughter has to read the "Shoe" books, so here I am.
KATHLEEN: Noel Streatfeild. Noel Streatfeild wrote Ballet Shoes and Skating Shoes and Theater Shoes and Movie Shoes. I'd start with Skating Shoes, it's my favorite, although Ballet Shoes is completely wonderful.
SALESPERSON: Streatfeild. How do you spell that?
KATHLEEN: WOMAN SHOPPER Thank you. As she walks away.
WOMAN SHOPPER: Thank you. As she walks away.
KATHLEEN: ( to herself ) They know nothing, they know absolutely ON JOE as he watches her. We hear the sound of the computer. She starts out of the store. And hold on him.
ON JOE: as he watches her. We hear the sound of the computer. She starts out of the store. And hold on him.
JOE: He backspaces, deleting. Starts typing again.
PATRICIA: She knows everything. She has flawless taste. She's famous for it. The salesmen swear by her. If she likes it, it sells. Period.
JOE: So you're going to offer her a job?
PATRICIA: Why not? What else has she got to do?
JOE: Now that she's destitute
PATRICIA: Thanks to you.
JOE: Well, I can't imagine her working for Why not?
PATRICIA: Why not?
JOE: She has a horrible personality, she's. nice to everyone all the time. It's exhausting. And her staff turnover is . non-existent. They've been there forever. Until. recently, when they all found out they were going to lose their jobs.
PATRICIA: Thanks to you. The elevator door is closing. Hold the elevator! They get in.
JOE: Hello, Charlie, Veronica.
PATRICIA: Last time, we rode in an elevator, we made the deal of the century. What is going to happen this time?
CHARLIE: Miss Grant's going to get me a part in one of her movies, that's what's going to happen.
VERONICA: In your dream, Charlie.
PATRICIA: ( back to the conversation with I love how you've totally forgotten you had any role in her current situation. It's so obtuse. It reminds me of someone . Who? Who does it remind me of? ( thinks for a moment ) The elevator suddenly stops.
PATRICIA: It is stuck?
VERONICA: It is stuck?
JOE: It is stuck?
CHARLIE: Could be. He pushes the open button. Nothing. Turns the key, hits the open button, flicks the emergency switch. The he starts hitting the buttons in every possible combination.
JOE: Charlie, what are you doing?
CHARLIE: Bang the door.
PATRICIA: Joe bangs the door. Nothing.
CHARLIE: I hope this thing doesn't plummet to the Can it do that?
VERONICA: Can it do that?
JOE: He picks up the phone.
JOE: This is Joe Fox. Who is this? Hi, Juan. We're stuck on the sixth floor. There are four of us
PATRICIA: ( grabs the phone ) and if you don't get your ass up here in two shakes and get us out He hangs up.
JOE: ( to Veronica ) Are you all right?
VERONICA: It's hot. Joe hands her his handkerchief.
CHARLIE: Everyone should jump in the air.
PATRICIA: We jump. The elevator thinks that no one is here and it opens. Everyone stares at each other.
CHARLIE: We jump. The elevator thinks that no one is here and it opens. Everyone stares at each other.
JOE: One two three They all jump into the air. They all land. Nothing happens.
VERONICA: If I ever get out of here, I'm going to start speaking to my mother. She slept with Oscar, and maybe it was Oscar's fault, I don't know, and then she sold the story to Inside Edition. That could have been Oscar's idea, too. Who knows? But I divorced him. I wonder what she's doing right this minute. I think of her. whenever I hear about a new pill. Ecstasy, Zoloft, Fenphen, I just think, I hope Mama knows about that. She takes out a tissue and dabs at her eyes.
PATRICIA: Maybe you can make up on Rosie. That would be so great for the book.
CHARLIE: ( trying to figure it out ) If I ever get out of here.
PATRICIA: If I ever get out of here, I'm having my eyes lasered.
CHARLIE: I'm marrying Oreet. I love her. I should marry her. I don't know what's been stopping me. He takes out his wallet and looks at a picture of Oreet, shows it to Joe.
JOE: If I ever get out of here, I'm going to He stops, he looks at Patricia who is fishing through her Where is my TicTacs? The firemen crowbar open the elevator door.
PATRICIA: Where is my TicTacs? The firemen crowbar open the elevator door.
GEORGE: Then, in the 19th century, Caldecott revolutionized the publishing of children's books by the introduction of color illustrations We see:
THE STAFF: Several are dozing.
JOE: What about going to the Children's Zoo?
ANNABEL: I don't want to go to the Children's Zoo.
JOE: Okay. The Staten Island Ferry.
ANNABEL: I want to go to the Storybook Lady.
MATT: I want to go to the Storybook Lady.
JOE: Well we can't go to the Storybook Lady.
JOE: Where did she go?
ANNABEL: Where did she go?
JOE: She had to close her store.
ANNABEL: She didn't have enough business.
JOE: She didn't have enough business.
ANNABEL: Well. Her store was very close to our store, and you know our store sells books at a slightly lower cost
JOE: Well. Her store was very close to our store, and you know our store sells books at a slightly lower cost
ANNABEL: Why do we sell at a lower cost? So more people can buy books.
JOE: Why do we sell at a lower cost? So more people can buy books.
ANNABEL: Why couldn't she sell that way too?
JOE: Because she's small and we're big. How about we go get some candy?
ANNABEL: So now she's gone and it's all your It's business, Annabel. It's not personal. How about we go get so much candy you'll be bouncing off the walls for days?
JOE: It's business, Annabel. It's not personal. How about we go get so much candy you'll be bouncing off the walls for days?
MATT: What's personal?
ANNABEL: Personal means that she's gone forever, and now we'll never get another book from her as long as we ever live. She burst into tears. Matt bursts into tears too.
JOE: Remember the man who worked with her?
ANNABEL: ( a wail ) Well I hired him.
JOE: Well I hired him.
ANNABEL: You killed the Storybook Lady. Matt throws himself on the ground, crying. Annabel sobs hysterically.
ANNABEL: She's glowering.
JOE: What are you doing here?
NELSON: To us.
JOE: Father and son, together at last. That happened with Gillian? Nelson ignores the question.
NELSON: I've stayed here after, let's see, your mother, Laurette that ballet dancer
JOE: the nanny
NELSON: Was she the nanny? I forgot that. How ironic. Then there was the ice skater
JOE: also the nanny
NELSON: Really. How amazingly ironic. Sybil the Whose moon turned out to be in somebody else's house, as I recall.
JOE: Whose moon turned out to be in somebody else's house, as I recall.
NELSON: Just like Gillian.
JOE: Gillian ran off with someone?
NELSON: The nanny.
JOE: Nanny Maureen? Gillian ran off with Nanny Maureen? That's incredibly True true.
NELSON: True true.
JOE: There's no other word for it.
NELSON: Who did you break up with?
JOE: Patricia. You met her.
NELSON: Would I like her? Just kidding. Isn't this great? Have some peanuts. Of course I have to live out of a suitcase for a least three weeks, and then there's the inevitable legal hassle, more of your inheritance down the drain.
JOE: Don't worry about it.
NELSON: I won't. But then I get to meet someone new. That's the easy part.
JOE: Oh, right, a snap to find the one single person in the world who fills your heart with joy.
NELSON: Don't be ridiculous. Have I ever been with anyone who fits that description? Have you?
JOE: On to the next.
NELSON: Isn't it a beautiful night? Hold on Joe.
KATHLEEN: ( voice clogged, through Who is it?
JOE: Joe Fox.
KATHLEEN: What are you doing here?
JOE: May I please come up?
KATHLEEN: It's really not a good idea. Someone else walks up to the door, unlocks it and walks in. Joe follows.
KATHLEEN: ( into the intercom ) I have a terrible cold, can you hear it? I'm sniffling and not really awake
KATHLEEN'S VOICE: and I'm sleeping practically twenty-four hours a day, and taking echinacea
KATHLEEN: ( into intercom ) and vitamin C, so I would really appreciate it if you would come some other time There's a knock on the door right next to her. Kathleen practically jumps out of her skin. She looks through the peephole. There he is.
JOE: Just a second. She puts on a robe, runs frantically about picking up various scattered wadded-up Kleenexs, opens the front door. Joe is holding a bunch of flowers wrapped in paper.
KATHLEEN: Just a second. She puts on a robe, runs frantically about picking up various scattered wadded-up Kleenexs, opens the front door. Joe is holding a bunch of flowers wrapped in paper.
JOE: What are you doing here?
KATHLEEN: What are you doing here?
JOE: I heard you were sick and I was worried and I wanted to Is someone here?
KATHLEEN: Just the Home Shopping Network.
JOE: Bought any porcelain dolls?
KATHLEEN: I was thinking about it. You put me out of business
JOE: I know that
KATHLEEN: And now you turn up with flowers? Did you come to gloat?
JOE: To offer me a job
KATHLEEN: To offer me a job
JOE: No, I wouldn't think of
KATHLEEN: Because I have plans, I have lots of offers. I've been offered a job by well, actually by
JOE: My former?
KATHLEEN: We broke up.
JOE: We broke up.
KATHLEEN: That's too bad. You seemed so perfect for each other. I don't mean to say things like that. No matter what you have done to me, there is no excuse for my saying anything like that. But every time I see you
JOE: Things like that just seem to fly out of your mouth.
KATHLEEN: Yes. I'm sorry. I'm starting over. Thank you for coming. Goodbye. Thank you for coming. Goodbye. She starts to the door.
JOE: I bought you flowers.
KATHLEEN: ( trying as hard as she can ) Thank you. She takes them. He takes them back.
JOE: Why don't I put them in water? He heads for the kitchen. A beat, while she stares after him. Then follows.
JOE: You're sick. Sit down, please. He pulls out a kitchen chair. Kathleen sits. She's a little Upper left. He gets out a vase. Fills it with water.
JOE: Upper left. He gets out a vase. Fills it with water.
KATHLEEN: Upper left. He gets out a vase. Fills it with water.
JOE: George says hello. He told me you weren't feeling well.
KATHLEEN: How is George?
JOE: Great. He's revolutionizing the place. No one is allowed to work in his department who doesn't have a Ph.D. in children's literature. He unwraps the paper around the flowers. Daisies. Puts them in a vase.
KATHLEEN: I love daisies.
JOE: You told me. He puts the vase on the kitchen table. Kathleen plays with the petals.
KATHLEEN: They're so friendly. Don't you think they are the friendliest flower?
JOE: I do.
KATHLEEN: When did you break up?
JOE: Oh, a couple of weeks ago.
KATHLEEN: Everyone is breaking up. You. Me. This other person I know broke up with someone in an elevator. I think it was in an elevator. Or just outside it. Or after it. It got stuck. I think. And suddenly everything became clear. When I saw you, at the coffee place, I was waiting for him and I was
JOE: I was not charming.
KATHLEEN: I was not charming.
JOE: Well, you The teakettle whistles. Joe turns off the burner.
JOE: Upper right. He gets out mugs and teabags and pours the water.
KATHLEEN: Upper right. He gets out mugs and teabags and pours the water.
KATHLEEN: I was upset. And I was horrible.
JOE: Kathleen nods. He puts in two spoonfuls, gives it to her.
JOE: True. But She picks up the daisies and carries them into:
KATHLEEN: True. But She picks up the daisies and carries them into:
JOE: Whereas I am a horrible person and have no choice but to be horrible, is that what you're saying?
KATHLEEN: No I am not saying that because I am done saying horrible things, even to you.
JOE: You did it again. She claps her hand over her mouth.
JOE: I put you out of business. You're entitled to hate me.
KATHLEEN: I don't hate you
JOE: But you'll never forgive me. Like Elizabeth Bennet in Pride and Prejudice. She was too proud
KATHLEEN: Elizabeth Bennet in Pride and Prejudice. She was too proud
JOE: Elizabeth Bennet in Pride and Prejudice. She was too proud
KATHLEEN: I thought you hated Pride and Prejudice.
JOE: or was she too prejudiced and Mr. Darcy too proud? I can never remember. ( beat ) It wasn't personal
KATHLEEN: It was business. What is that supposed to mean? I am so sick of that. All it means is it's not personal to you, but it's personal to me, it's personal to a lot of people. ( she shrugs helplessly ) What's wrong with personal anyway?
JOE: I mean, whatever else anything is, it ought to begin by being personal. Kathleen stands up, picks up the daisies.
KATHLEEN: I mean, whatever else anything is, it ought to begin by being personal. Kathleen stands up, picks up the daisies.
KATHLEEN: My head's starting to get funny. I have to go back to bed. They walk to.
KATHLEEN: Why did you stop by? I forget.
JOE: I wanted to be your friend.
KATHLEEN: I knew it wasn't possible. What can I say? Sometimes a person just wants the impossible. Could I ask you something?
JOE: I knew it wasn't possible. What can I say? Sometimes a person just wants the impossible. Could I ask you something?
KATHLEEN: What happened with that guy at the cafe?
JOE: What happened with that guy at the cafe?
KATHLEEN: But you're crazy about him
JOE: But you're crazy about him
KATHLEEN: Yes. I am.
JOE: Then why don't you run off with him? What are you waiting for? A long beat.
KATHLEEN: I don't actually know him.
JOE: We only know each other oh God, you're not going to believe this
KATHLEEN: We only know each other oh God, you're not going to believe this
JOE: Let me guess. From the Internet.
KATHLEEN: You've Got Mail.
JOE: You've Got Mail.
KATHLEEN: Very powerful words.
JOE: Very powerful words.
KATHLEEN: Joe sits on the edge of the bed.
JOE: I'm happy for him. Although could I make a little suggestion? I think you should meet him. No. I take it back. Why meet him?
KATHLEEN: ( starting to get sharp again ) I hardly think I need advice from someone He reaches out and gently claps his hand over her mouth. And holds it there. It's unexpectedly tender and sexy.
JOE: I concede I bring out the worst in you, but let me help you not to say something you'll just torture yourself about for years to come. She starts to smile and he removes his hand. They look at each other.
JOE: I hope you're better soon. It would be a shame to miss New York in the spring. Joe stands.
KATHLEEN: Thank you for the daisies. He starts for the door.
JOE: Take care.
KATHLEEN: I will.
JOE: We hear the door close. Hold on Kathleen.
KATHLEEN: We hear the door close. Hold on Kathleen.
MALE RUNNER: He passes her. Christina can't believe it. She does a little dance of joy. Camera pulls back as we see her by the reservoir on a beautiful morning doing her little celebratory spin. Then she resumes her morning exercise, running on.
CHRISTINA: He passes her. Christina can't believe it. She does a little dance of joy. Camera pulls back as we see her by the reservoir on a beautiful morning doing her little celebratory spin. Then she resumes her morning exercise, running on.
RABBIT: Shabbat shalom! He grabs Patricia's hand, and to her surprise, they go whirling off together.
JOE: That's what he said.
KATHLEEN: That's what he said.
JOE: He's probably married.
KATHLEEN: That's a terrible thing to say. It's not Have you asked him if he's married? Have you said, "Are you married?"
JOE: Have you asked him if he's married? Have you said, "Are you married?"
KATHLEEN: Joe looks at her, shrugs.
JOE: So he didn't exactly answer.
KATHLEEN: He did too. He nailed me. He knew exactly what I was up to. Which is just like him.
JOE: But he didn't exactly answer, did he? Did he?
KATHLEEN: Maybe he's fat.
JOE: Maybe he's fat.
KATHLEEN: I don't care about that.
JOE: You don't care that he might be one of those guys who's so fat he has to be removed from his house with a crane?
KATHLEEN: That's very unlikely.
JOE: Why else do you think he's putting off meeting you? Although. maybe that's not it. Maybe.
KATHLEEN: Never mind.
JOE: Never mind.
KATHLEEN: He could be waiting til he's paroled.
JOE: He could be waiting til he's paroled.
KATHLEEN: Oh, you won't believe this, there was a moment when George thought he might be the rooftop killer, which was completely Her voice trails off, as she considers whether it could be What's his handle? She shakes her head.
JOE: What's his handle? She shakes her head.
JOE: Come on, I'm not going to write him. Is that what you think?
KATHLEEN: NY 152. One five two. One hundred fifty two. Very interesting. He's 152 years old. He has 152 hairs remaining on his head. He's had 152 moles removed and now he has 152 pockmarks.
JOE: One five two. One hundred fifty two. Very interesting. He's 152 years old. He has 152 hairs remaining on his head. He's had 152 moles removed and now he has 152 pockmarks.
JOE: His combined college board scores.
KATHLEEN: His IQ.
JOE: The number of women he's slept with.
KATHLEEN: The number of times he's seen The That's the first good thing I've heard about him.
JOE: That's the first good thing I've heard about him.
KATHLEEN: His address. No, no, no. He would never do anything that prosaic. On Joe, looking a little wounded. The only thing I really care about besides the married thing. and the jail thing. is the boat thing.
JOE: The boat thing?
KATHLEEN: I could never be with anyone who has a boat.
JOE: So that clinches it. We'll never be together. I'll take care of these. He picks up a mango, squeezes it. I could never be with anyone who likes Joni Mitchell. "It's cloud's illusions I recall, I really don't know clouds at all." What does that mean? Joe waits for Kathleen to say she likes Joni Mitchell. But Kathleen doesn't say anything. She starts intently picking over apples, trying to find some she wants.
KATHLEEN: So that clinches it. We'll never be together. I'll take care of these. He picks up a mango, squeezes it. I could never be with anyone who likes Joni Mitchell. "It's cloud's illusions I recall, I really don't know clouds at all." What does that mean? Joe waits for Kathleen to say she likes Joni Mitchell. But Kathleen doesn't say anything. She starts intently picking over apples, trying to find some she wants.
JOE: How's your book coming?
KATHLEEN: There's a children's book editor I know, from the store, and she's excited to read it. When I finish it. Who would ever have thought I'd write? I mean, if I didn't have all this free time, I would never have discovered She stops, realizing what she's saying. The truth is, he was the one who made me start thinking about writing
JOE: Mister 152 Felony Indictments
KATHLEEN: Mister 152. insights into my soul.
JOE: Yes. Well. Can't compete with that.
KATHLEEN: Well. I keep bumping into you. Hope your mango's ripe.
JOE: I think it is. Want to bump into me Saturday? Around lunchtime?
JOE: I know. In Riverside Park.
KATHLEEN: I know. In Riverside Park.
JOE: I know. In Riverside Park.
KATHLEEN: I know. In Riverside Park.
JOE: Isn't that amazing? Maybe I've seen him, and I don't even know it.
JOE: He could be the Zipper Man.
KATHLEEN: Who's that?
JOE: This guy on Amsterdam who repairs zippers. You'll never have to buy new Stop teasing.
KATHLEEN: Stop teasing.
JOE: Timing is everything. He waited until you were primed. Until you knew there was no other man you could ever love.
KATHLEEN: ( almost believe it ) Sometimes I wonder.
JOE: Sometimes I wonder.
KATHLEEN: They stop walking, they look at each other.
JOE: If I hadn't been Foxbooks and you hadn't been The Shop Around the Corner and we'd just met
KATHLEEN: I would have asked for your phone number and I wouldn't have been able to wait 24 hours before calling and asking, "How about coffee, drinks, dinner, a movie, for as long as we both shall live?"
JOE: I would have asked for your phone number and I wouldn't have been able to wait 24 hours before calling and asking, "How about coffee, drinks, dinner, a movie, for as long as we both shall live?"
KATHLEEN: ( almost a swoon ) And then we would never have been at war.
JOE: And then we would never have been at war.
KATHLEEN: The only fight we'd ever have is what video to rent on Saturday night.
JOE: The only fight we'd ever have is what video to rent on Saturday night.
KATHLEEN: Who fights about that?
JOE: Some people. Not us.
KATHLEEN: We would never. A long beat.
JOE: If only.
KATHLEEN: Please. I have to go. She doesn't move.
JOE: Let me ask you something? How come you'll forgive him for standing you up and you won't forgive me for a little tiny thing like putting you out of business? Kathleen looks at him. Shakes her head. They look at each other.
JOE: Oh how I wish you would. It's all Kathleen can do not to forgive him. It's all Joe can do not to kiss her.
KATHLEEN: I really do have to go.
JOE: You don't want to be late. She's in agony. He turns and walks away. After a moment, she does too.
VOICE: Brinkley! Brinkley! And hold on Kathleen as she sees.
JOE: And she starts to cry. And he comes to her. And puts his arms around her.
JOE: Don't cry, Shopgirl, don't cry.
KATHLEEN: I wanted it to be you. I wanted it to be you so badly. And as they kiss, we hold on them. And crane up and away as we see them, a couple kissing in the park on a beautiful spring day. A dog is leaping around them. And as we get further and further away from them, the screen turns into
CYBERSPACE: And the dog turns cartwheels and flipflops. And we tilt up to see the clouds and the sky and hear the sound of computer keys, clicking, clicking, Writers : Nora Ephron Delia Ephron
FADE OUT: Writers : Nora Ephron Delia Ephron
