SHOOTING DRAFT: INT. STARBUCKS - 7:30 A.M. We're watching a pair of hands arrange white sugar packets, blue Equal packets, and pink Sweet and Low into small containers. With precision and lightning speed, the mixed up colors and crumpled packets are transformed into neat little color-coded rows. Wait, this container has three Equals and four Sweet 'n' lows. The hand quickly plucks the mutant Sweet 'n' Low. There. Symmetry. We move up those hands and meet SAM DAWSON as he surveys his domain. Something about him. He's extremely compelling, uniquely handsome. But it's more than that. Those eyes, they sparkle with the wonder of a child. Life's cynical edge has not etched it's path across this face. They light on a COFFEE CUP held by one of the Regulars.
SAM: Double double decaf low-fat Cap.
BRUCE: You got it, buddy.
SAM: Good choice very good choice.
GEORGE: Sam, they called. It's time for you to
SAM: "It's time for you to go."
GEORGE: It's time.
SAM: It's time.
GEORGE: Good luck.
SAM: It's time. It's time.
SAM: Sam pushes the DOOR OPEN. And we REALIZE we are entering: A
GERTIE: You the one responsible for this?
SAM: I'm sorry.
GERTIE: Too late for sorries, daddy, get over here and hold her hand.
NURSE: You got a live one, Gert.
DR. JAMISON: Okay, this is it!
SAM: ( spins in circles ) This is it! This is it!
DR. JAMISON: And it's a girl.
GERTIE: There's someone who's been waitin' an awful long time to see you, Sam.
SAM: This is it.
GERTIE: What's her name?
SAM: ( looks at clock ) Let me see let me see let me see. 12:17, March 2nd. Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds. Recorded March 2nd. 1967. Lyrics by John Lennon, music by Paul McCartney. Lucy Diamond Dawson.
SAM: Becca! Becca!
SAM: Didn't you just fall asleep, little Okay, if you say it's time to get up, then it's time to get up, time to get Oh my, oh my, oh my. Quite a bit of
SAM: Everything's so tiny, tiny. Tiny. Everything. Won't you please come over? Help. I need somebody. Won't you please please help me.
ANNIE: You know I can't do that. What does her mother say?
SAM: Her mother? Her mother said "This isn't my life. I'm outta here when she comes. It didn't mean anything, Sam. It was just one night. The two of you. That's all I need." Annie, what if she's
ANNIE: She's overheated and not eating enough. How often are you feeding her?
SAM: A lot, Gerber, Carnation, Gerber.
ANNIE: What's a lot?
SAM: Breakfast, lunch, and dinner. Three squares hot.
ANNIE: Babies need food every two hours, Sam.
SAM: Oh. I'm sorry Lucy Diamond.
ANNIE: What time does the little diamond wake She never really goes to sleep.
SAM: She never really goes to sleep.
ANNIE: Okaaaay. Well, let's assume she's up at six. Keep your TV on Nickelodeon. I want you to feed her first while "Bewitched" is on. Then again, when "Hogan's Heroes" starts. After that, well until "Father Knows Best."
SAM: What are you doing here now?! Her first sound sleep, not a sound, not a sound.
BRAD: Eight years every Thursday Video Night and you forgot?!
SAM: Oh my god, Video Night. First Thursday of the month. Video night at Sam's house. I'm sorry, I forgot.
IFTY: Becca's gone. "Gone with the Wind" is a very sad movie.
ROBERT: Oh here we go.Everything changes now. Soon you'll forget about Wednesday night Denny's and Friday night Karaoke. And I got hit by a car today.
SAM: You did?
ROBERT: It's probably that guy from the V.A.
BRAD: What guy?
ROBERT: ( closing window ) I can't discuss it. And now this.
SAM: She looks smart, doesn't she?
IFTY: Of course, look. She's already reading the newspaper. I have five smart sisters in Pakistan. I am only brother. "Seven Brides for Seven Brothers" was a wonderful movie I forgot to bring last week for Video Night.
BRAD: Did you get "Blade Runner" for tonight?
ROBERT: Now it's all my fault?!
BRUCE: Don't tell me you forgot again. I broke a date with a daydream to come here.
BRAD: Mom! I told you Video Night's over at nine! It's only six-thirty!
ESTELLE: ( unaware of the baby ) Sorry. I'll wait in the lobby.
IFTY: She needs motion. My father drove my sisters in his taxi to get them to go to sleep. Two-fifty surcharge on all taxi's from the airport.
ROBERT: I got hit by a taxi on Tuesday.
BUS DRIVER: Main and Temple.again. She out yet?
SAM: Almost there, almost there. One more round and she'll be down for the night.
PROTECTIVE EMBRACE: ONE MONTH, THEN TWO. NOW FIVE. She's BIG AND ROUND at SIX MONTHS. And on and on into the night.
SAM: Double macciatto, low foam, low-fat. Good choice, very good choice.
SAM: Please, Annie! She's too big to take to I'm not a baby-sitter. I'm too busy.
ANNIE: I'm not a baby-sitter. I'm too busy.
LUCY: Annie, Annie, Annie.
ANNIE: ( suspicious ) Did you teach her that?
SAM: It was her first word. Very first word.
ANNIE: And people worry you're not smart.
ANNIE: This is Mozart. He did twenty-two variations of "Twinkle Twinkle Little Star". You smell good. You can tell a lot about a person by their smell. If they've got too much perfume on they're covering something up. You gotta watch someone who smells like soap. Gotta wonder what their priorities are. Nervous people. People who try too hard. They smell like fish. But you. You smell like milk. Milk and hope.
ANNIE: Annie opens the door to pull in the groceries. The ball of yarn ROLLS OUT the door and Lucy chases after it. Annie, terrified, bellows:
LUCY: If you and Mommy liked each other enough to have me, how come you're not together I think she fell out of love with me. Not you, never you. Me, just me.
SAM: I think she fell out of love with me. Not you, never you. Me, just me.
LUCY: When you fall out of love where do you Somewhere in Florida, I think.
SAM: Somewhere in Florida, I think.
LUCY: Do you think she'll ever come back?
SAM: ( long pause ) Paul McCartney lost his mother when he was fourteen. John lost his mother twice. First when Julie gave John to her sister Mimi to raise. And then again when Julia was hit by a car. They say God picks certain people, special people. That's what they say.
LUCY: Daddy, did God mean for you to be like this or was it an accident?
SAM: Do you mean - what do you mean?
LUCY: I mean you're different.
SAM: What do you mean? I mean, what do you You're not like the other daddies.
LUCY: You're not like the other daddies.
SAM: I'm not am I. I'm sorry.
LUCY: Don't be sorry. I'm lucky. Nobody else's daddy ever comes to the park.
SAM: We are very lucky, aren't we? Ice cream on the side.
GRACE: Ice cream on the side.
LUCY: Not on top. Not on top.
SAM: Good choice. Very good choice.
SAM: Brad, I know it was your turn. I'm sure of it.
BRAD: I swear to God it was Robert's turn.
ROBERT: Why is it always my fault?
IFTY: I keep track, last time, I say to myself, I say, write it down. Bank of America give away beautiful calendar, every month a picture of wild animal, look June, an Elk. Elke Sommer.she starred in the remake of "Prisoner of Zenda". Three stars Leonard Maltin video movie guide.
LUCY: Annie let me borrow it.
SAM: You need a good sturdy school shoe. Arches are very important.
IFTY: Sturdy is boring. Red shoes bring good But red doesn't got with green.
BRAD: But red doesn't got with green.
IFTY: Except on Christmas.
BRAD: No brown clodhoppers. Everyone will make fun of her.
SAM: NO ONE will make fun of Lucy.
ROBERT: She might be stupid.
IFTY: No she's not
ROBERT: Did they test her?
BRAD: You don't know for sure.
SAM: Yes I do.
BRUCE: But if she is, don't make her go to Don't let her in the lunch room. Johnny Marzettie's there.
ROBERT: Don't let her in the lunch room. Johnny Marzettie's there.
BRAD: And gym. Get her a pass. The rules for volleyball are so hard to remember. "Rotate Rackman Rotate."
IFTY: Throw the ball at his forehead and the water on his brain will come out his
LUCY: I like these.
SAM: She know what she likes. She likes these. How much are they?
SALESMAN: Forty-nine ninety-nine.
SAM: One penny less than fifty. These shoes are one penny less than fifty?
LUCY: It's okay, Dad. I don't really like No, no no no no.
SAM: No, no no no no.
IFTY: We'll all give ten dollars.
BRAD: I've only got three plus five. But I need one for stamps.
ROBERT: Don't pull your wad out in front of
SAM: Thank you, thank you. We are rich in friends. That's what our fortune cookie said. 1, 2, 3, 4, quarters that makes I'll count it.
SALESMAN: I'll count it.
SAM: Is it enough?
SALESMAN: ( exasperated ) If there's a God.
BRAD: Do we get a balloon with these?
SALESMAN: All of us, or just her?
ROBERT: All of us, or just her?
SAM: Beautiful kick! Very close!
MR. RHODES: C'mon, Conner! On your toes! They're all counting on you!
SAM: Hurray, Lucy! You're getting the hang of it now! You've got them scared now!
MR. RHODES: The whole game was right in front of your nose! I leave work early to watch you blow the whole game!?
LUCY: He is.
CONNER: Are you?
LUCY: Are you sure?
CONNER: Are you sure?
LUCY: How do you know?
CONNER: How do you know?
LUCY: He told me.
CONNER: But he's a retard.
LUCY: Yeah well it takes one to know one!
SAM: "They perched in sisisi."
LUCY: ".silence for a long time." Boy. Your teacher chose a hard book this time. "How can we be so difdifdif."
SAM: ".silence for a long time." Boy. Your teacher chose a hard book this time. "How can we be so difdifdif."
LUCY: Sam glances up at Lucy self-consciously. Lucy grabs the book from Sam, tosses it on the pile and picks up another.
SAM: "I am Sam, Sam I am. Do you like green eggs and ham? I do not like them, Sam I
LUCY: Daddy, I have school tomorrow.I don't wanna be too sleepy.
SAM: Just the part about the boat and the goat in the rain in the train?
LUCY: Daddy, Hamburger Hamlet has twelve different kinds of hamburgers. Can we go there Wednesday instead of Denny's?
SAM: But Wednesday night's Denny's, Thursday's Video Night, Friday Night
MISS WRIGHT: Lucy, your turn. Start where Sara left I can't.
LUCY: I can't.
MISS WRIGHT: Sure you can.
LUCY: "They perched in sisisisi."
MISS WRIGHT: ( throws down book ) There. I told you. It's too hard.
LUCY: ( throws down book ) There. I told you. It's too hard.
MISS WRIGHT: Lucy! I know you can read this!
LUCY: No, I can't! And you can't make me!
LILY: Look here. "Premature baby claims he's cupid - has the arrow to prove it." Do you believe that?
SAM: Well, if he has the arrow.
LILY: Yeah. You got a good point. You're a good reader.
SAM: You're a good reader.
LILY: Yeah, I've always been smart.
SAM: You're lucky. I'm looking for a smart, good mother.
LILY: I can be a mother. A real good mother.
SAM: Oh, good. Good.
LILY: I could even spank you.
SAM: Oh no no no. I don't believe in that.
LILY: Okay okay. I can be very gentle.
SAM: Gentle. Gentle. Yes. Do you tell I got stories up the wazoo. Why don't you come with me. I'll tell you a nice I have to pick up Lucy at Annie's first.
LILY: I got stories up the wazoo. Why don't you come with me. I'll tell you a nice I have to pick up Lucy at Annie's first.
SAM: I have to pick up Lucy at Annie's first.
LILY: A menage a toi?
SAM: French, French the language of France. You could teach my daughter, Lucy.
LILY: Your daughter?! Can't you pick her up After?! No no, Lucy comes too.
SAM: After?! No no, Lucy comes too.
LILY: She takes Sam's hand, they move to get on the bus JUST AS ANOTHER HAND brusquely lands on theirs.
COP: Not so fast. You're under arrest. He wanted to bring his kid, I said no.
LILY: He wanted to bring his kid, I said no.
COP: It's the first time in nineteen years I actually believe the guy when he says he didn't know she was a hooker
MARGARET BROWN: You say that like it's a good thing.
SAM: .Your teeth don't sound like they were brushed. Do it with me now.
COP: Let him go. He says he's never spent a night away from his kid. Come with me - I got a guy who beat the shit out of his two year old. Again.
MARGARET BROWN: Yes. I am seeing you tomorrow, Mr. Rabins. She's still screaming? No, McDonald's won't help.she's four months old.
SAM: Thirteen up.not on the gum line not on the gum line, 1, 2, 3.
MISS WRIGHT: It gives us a great deal of insight into what she must be feeling. And in the classroom, it's becoming clear she's holding herself back. It's as if she's literally afraid to learn.
PRINCIPAL: Mr. Dawson, do you understand what Miss Wright is trying to tell you about Lucy?
SAM: No one wanted The Beatles to break up. But you can hear it on the White Album. They were going in different directions.
LUCY: How can we be so dif..dif.I don't know that word.
SAM: Yes you do. It starts with a "d"
LUCY: I'm tired.
SAM: I don't believe you.
LUCY: Are you calling me a liar?
SAM: Yes. Now read the word.
LUCY: ( crying ) No.I'm stupid.
SAM: No you're not.
LUCY: I don't want to read it if you can't.
SAM: It makes me happy. I'm happy hearing you read it.
LUCY: "Why are we different and so much
KID: I'm a Super Freak!
CONNER: And I thought my dad was a dork.
LUCY: They have eleven different kinds of hamburgers. This is so great.
SAM: A new place. Your choice. I said we'd go to a new place. And here we are.
LUCY: You know what else I want for my birthday, Daddy? I want a hundred The napkins are much stiffer at Denny's. They make better birds. There's not so much stuff on the tables there either. Why do they have two kinds of mustard on every table?
SAM: The napkins are much stiffer at Denny's. They make better birds. There's not so much stuff on the tables there either. Why do they have two kinds of mustard on every table?
WAITRESS: No, no coffee. Sam's system can't handle coffee.
SAM: No, no coffee. Sam's system can't handle coffee.
WAITRESS: Okaaay! What can I get you folks?
LUCY: I'd like the Benito Bandito burger and a chocolate chip milkshake, please.
SAM: I'll have the fish special, side of potatoes, salad with Thousand Island Dressing, cherry pie, and.
WAITRESS: I'm sorry, sir. We don't have a fish special. There's fish and chips. It comes with a dinner salad.
SAM: Chips, chips? You mean potato chips? I don't want potato chips. I want a side of potatoes.
WAITRESS: You want french fries?
SAM: No, a side of potatoes, like at Denny's. A side of potatoes.
LUCY: They're little red potatoes.
WAITRESS: We don't have new potatoes.
SAM: Denny's has new potatoes. Six new potatoes parsley garnish parsley
ON LUCY: Her smile fades.
SAM: Fish and chips fish and chips. I will not eat fish and chips.
LUCY: ( exploding ) I will not eat them here or there! I will not eat them anywhere! I will not eat green eggs and ham! I will not eat them, Sam I am!
SAM: Now when they come through the door, everybody yell "Surprise!" Do you want to rehearse again?
CONNER: No. I bet she already knows.
ROBERT: I didn't tell her. Did Brad say I did?
SAM: Is that Lucy? Annie's supposed to call and warn us. Shhhh, everyone.
MARGARET BROWN: I don't know if you remember me. I'm Margaret Brown from Children's Social Services. We met at the police station.
SAM: Put your present over there - Hurry up! Lucy might be on her way. Hello? Annie says she's coming up the stairs. Everyone be quiet. Assume surprise positions! Be quiet! Assume surprise positions!
CONNER: Oh brother!
SAM: Why are you such a party pooper?! Assume surprise positions!
CONNER: Make me! He's gonna ruin the surprise! He's gonna ruin the surprise!
MR. RHODES: He's gonna ruin the surprise! He's gonna ruin the surprise!
SAM: He's gonna ruin the surprise! He's gonna ruin the surprise!
CONNER: He touched me! I've got cooties! I've got cooties!
MR. RHODES: Get your hands off my boy!
SAM: Surprise! Happy Birthday!
LUCY: You don't have to call him "Daddy". She says you're not her real father, anyway. She's adopted!
CONNER: You don't have to call him "Daddy". She says you're not her real father, anyway. She's adopted!
SAM: I'll go get her.
MARGARET BROWN: It would be better if you stay here. I'm sorry to say this, Mr. Dawson, it's clear how much you love your daughter, but we're going to have to remove Lucy from your home.
SAM: No, no no no. It's her birthday! It's her birthday!
MARGARET BROWN: I know how hard this must be. .Hello, Betsy. I'm scheduled to come to your apartment at four. No, not five every two hours. It's two every five hours. She only weighs thirty pounds for chrissakes. The city has given me the difficult task of deciding when to intervene on behalf of the child. Unfortunately, I've learned the hard way that it's better too soon than too late. For now the court will decide what's in Lucy's best
SAM: Run, Lucy, run!
ON SAM: Reeling, devastated, we HEAR A JUDGE speaking:
JUDGE: .could not control his emotions, endangering other children. Miss Brown also cites Mr. Dawson's mental deficiencies which raise serious questions about his ability to properly parent. I agree to grant petition. The child shall be removed from the home until a forma jurisdictional hearing. Mr. Dawson, is there anything you'd like to add?
SAM: Yes. I just wanted it to be a nice surprise party. I had gotten the plates at Pic-N-Save. Pink and yellow, pink and yellow. Like a princess. And the balloons at
JUDGE: ( gently ) Mr. Dawson, it sounds like a lovely party, but right now I want to talk to you about your legal rights. I would strongly suggest you get yourself legal counsel and allow your attorney to present your case at the jurisdictional hearing on February 13th. Counsel, are you available?
COUNSEL: Ted, I have a trial that day.
JUDGE: February 20th. 8:00 a.m.
SAM: ( panicking ) Twenty-two days? Lucy will come home and you want me to bring Lucy back in twenty-two days?
JUDGE: No, Mr. Dawson. You'll have supervised visits twice a week for two hours. Now I'm sorry, we have thirty more cases to see today. Next! Hopkins vs. Clifford.
SAM: Thursday? Today is Monday, Mrs. Brown. That's three days away. That's too long. She can't sleep without Mr. Jeeters. Well if you're not available until Thursday, maybe I could see her without you there. maybe the Judge made a mistake - maybe he doesn't know that for seven years I played with her without you there.No Mrs. Brown, I'm not trying to violate the court. Mrs. Brown?
ROBERT: I bet they were recording the whole conversation. Check your phone. You can't make a move. You need a lawyer.
BRAD: Call Jerry Spence. He has his own show. He must know what he's doing.
ROBERT: No. Johnny Cochran. He has his own show, too.
BRAD: Yeah! He can even get a guilty person So you think I'm guilty?
SAM: So you think I'm guilty?
IFTY: No. You didn't kill anybody.
SAM: But she said I'm not her father.
IFTY: She didn't say that. That runty kid with the blue shirt and the mean father whose voice sounds like the man on the Channel Four News who has a toupee. Toupees are expensive.
SAM: But Ifty. She said it.
IFTY: But she didn't mean it. I said I hated my mother once. "Once upon a time." is how stories begin.
ROBERT: You should get a personal injury lawyer. You've been personally injured.
BRAD: Here - look at this - "Sebastion Gibson." He can do anything. Pedestrians. Back and neck. Uninsured Motorist. Dog attacks.
SAM: The Social Worker said it's a custody Then get a divorce lawyer.
ROBERT: Then get a divorce lawyer.
IFTY: When Dustin Hoffman was trying to keep Billy from going back to Meryl Streep, his lawyer said it was going to cost him fifteen thousand dollars - and that's if we win!
SAM: Fifteen thousand dollars!
BRAD: Don't worry about money now. Get the best. Century City - Here: "Rubel Bly Harrison and Williams".
RITA: Did Fred Kimble call? I'm already twenty minutes late.
PATRICIA: What'd Michelle Kresge say?
RITA: What'd Michelle Kresge say?
PATRICIA: She wasn't defensive, was she?
RITA: She wasn't defensive, was she?
PATRICIA: That's ridiculous. What happened with my car?
RITA: That's ridiculous. What happened with my car?
PATRICIA: Because it wasn't my fault.
RITA: Because it wasn't my fault.
PATRICIA: Thank you, Patricia.
I: Thank you, Patricia.
RITA: Thank you, Patricia.
PATRICIA: This is Mr. Dawson. There was some confusion with the temp last week and
RITA: Mr. Dawson, it's a pleasure. Since somebody made a mistake, unfortunately we only have a little time. Hold all my calls unless it's my kid - I'll have a double cap.
SAM: Good choice, very good choice.
RITA: Can we get you anything to drink?
SAM: Is it free?
ON RITA: TEN MINUTES LATER Sam is in the middle of the beginning of his story. Rita on her second cappuccino, eyes her computer screen for calls.
RITA: Uh huh uh huh uh huh uh If that's Jake Hiller, put him through. Jake. No no no no no no.
PATRICIA: ( from speaker ) Your son's on line two.
RITA: Jake, did you get that?! Tell him to hold for just one second. Jake I have to go.he what?
PATRICIA: ( through speaker ) Deborah Chapman on line three
RITA: Hold on Jake. No no no no no no no. Have a nice
SAM: Burt Bacharach shared billing with The Beatles and Jose Jiminez on the Ed Sullivan Show June 5th, 1968.
RITA: ( then ) Jake, what'd you say you tell him yes I ( yelling; re: coffee ) This tastes like low, are you sure it's non? Okay okay okay. I think there's been a little mistake here
SAM: Yes. A little one. Your son's on line Oh my God. Patricia? Get Danny back. Well keep
RITA: Oh my God. Patricia? Get Danny back. Well keep
SAM: Since you would like to, why don't you talk to your boss. Maybe he would let
RITA: ( into phone ) Then keep dialing ( to Sam ) What I mean is that at this point in my career, I can't afford to.
SAM: I earn eight dollars an hour at Starbucks. I can pay your hourly rate, rate by the hour, hourly
RITA: Mr. Dawson, I'm sorry, I have to be in court in eight minutes with the Kresges. You understand, good luck to you and don't give up.
RITA: This is Lucy. One year old. First word, "apple". December third. 3:16 p.m. December third.
SAM: This is Lucy. One year old. First word, "apple". December third. 3:16 p.m. December third.
PATRICIA: ( through the phone ) Danny on Line 2.
RITA: Danny? Hi. Could we possibly talk about this when I get home. Danny? Danny? C'mon. You're not gonna talk to me? I bought you a bag of your favorite lemonade jelly beans. Danny? "One little bird in one little tree, we're all alone and we don't want to be. So they flew far away over the trees." I said "Over the sea." I know the words, I said "Over the sea." Since when don't you like that song?
SAM: ( from the doorway ) You did say "over the trees" instead of "over the sea." It's hard to remember all the words to all the songs. There's so many. ( Rita almost stops ) you have a child Rita rubel Bly Harrison Williams. If they took him away wouldn't you hire the fastest talking four-named lawyer you could?
RITA: Yes, I would. I went to college with a friend who does these kinds of cases. Leave your number. I'll see if she can help you.
PATRICIA: ( through your phone ) Your therapist on Line 1.
RITA: Tell him you can't find me.
SAM: I'm ready.
GEORGE: Let's not add more stress to your life.
SAM: I'm ready. I'm ready to make coffee. Lo-fat decaf latte. Coffee up to here. Add steamed milk up to here. No foam, no foam. Cinnamon or chocolate That's pretty good Sam. I'll think about it.
GEORGE: That's pretty good Sam. I'll think about it.
SAM: I know what that means. I stock shelves at Lucky Supermarkets. I want to bag groceries, Miss Losey says "I'll think about it." Randy Brenner gets the job. I was the janitor at the La Reina Theater, I wanted to take tickets. Mr. Jenkins said he'd think about it. Larry Peters gets the job. Lets his friends in for free.
GEORGE: I promise you, Sam. I'll honestly think about it. You have my word.
SAM: Words, words, words. I need more than that. I need to pay my lawyer. I need to make coffee.
RITA: I am celebrating congratulations to us these are the moments good night.
SAM: Non-fat vente cap. I'm sorry to bother you, but did you call your friend? Your friend from college, your friend who does this kind of work?
RITA: ( there never was a friend ) I don't have her number anymore, Sam. We lost touch.
SAM: ( devastated ) Oh, that happens. That happens. People lose touch. Will you call me if you find it? If you get back in touch?
RITA: Yes, I'm just in the middle..it's a special..I'll call you.
COLLEAGUE: Is that the new janitor?
RITA: No, it's a case. Sort of a pro-bono
PATRICIA: Nothing. A cracker went down the wrong
RITA: You think I don't pro-bono?..I can do pro-bono.. I can do Goddamn pro-bono.. where the hell are my keys..hold the
SAM: 32nd floor. 32 floors more. 31st floor. 31 floors more.
RITA: Alright, alright I'll take you. Alright, Goddammitt, I'll take you.
SAM: Oh my God oh my God! Rubel Bly Harrison and Williams!
RITA: No, no no. Pro-bono. Alright? Pro
MARGARET BROWN: Lucy, I'm sorry. But it doesn't look like he's going to make it.
LUCY: ( staring forward ) He'll be here. You smell like soap.
MARGARET BROWN: Lucy, he's an hour and 45 minutes late. You'll only have a few minutes left.
LUCY: Daddy! I told you I told you!
SAM: .and she's a Century City lawyer - a very famous lawyer. Guess what her name is? Rita Harrison.
LUCY: ( jaw drops ) Lovely Rita Meter Maid.
SAM: Harrison. Just like George. You've grown.
LUCY: Have I?
SAM: Your ears are larger. And your eyes are
LUCY: You can't afford a phone machine.
SAM: Yes we can. I'm in line for a promotion. Big promotion. A promotion that's big.
LUCY: They're gonna let you make coffee?!
SAM: Set your dreams high, Lucy.
LUCY: I'm sorry, Daddy. It was all my fault.
SAM: No, Lucy. Don't say that.
LUCY: I wouldn't want any Daddy but you.
RITA: .are you telling me that neither of you want custody of your child?
WOMAN: He's created a monster. He's exactly like him. He.he.
RITA: I am right here with you, excuse me. Sam? Didn't I tell you that you have to I - You know how to make an appointment.
SAM: I - You know how to make an appointment.
RITA: You know how to make an appointment.
SAM: It's -
RITA: That's ridiculous you can always get They -
SAM: They -
RITA: Good. I'll see you next week.
SAM: But it's an emergency - lots of three syllable words urgent open at once.
RITA: They want to have you and Lucy evaluated by a shrink. The appointment is today at three. Today. Now. Today!
SAM: I know and I want you to object.
RITA: Sam I can't object. It's court ordered.
SAM: Here. Don't be sad.
RITA: Patricia, I'm in the middle - get him out of there -
SAM: Okay okay I know I take the #34 bus and transfer to the #13.than the Downtown Express to Wilshire then -
RITA: Go! Go! GO! for chrissakes! Green means
GO!: Red means stop yellow in the middle means no no no.I don't like shrinks. I've seen too many shrinks.
SAM: Red means stop yellow in the middle means no no no.I don't like shrinks. I've seen too many shrinks.
RITA: Yeah. You and me both. Right or left which will it be you IDIOT!?
SAM: Your mother sent you to shrinks, too?
RITA: No. Well, sort of. I talk about her the whole time I'm there.
SAM: That's nice. Did you notice that everyone else is driving slower. I noticed that did you?
RITA: ( on the horn ) Go for Chrissakes! How about your mother? Maybe she can help you -
SAM: She's gone. She's at the Park Lane Mortuary. Two from the left. Under the big tree.
RITA: Oh. I'm sorry. The light is green!
SAM: Too many shrinks.I'm sorry Mrs. Dawson, if I were you I wouldn't waste any more time. I'm sorry Mrs. Dawson it must be a tremendous disappointment. I'm sorry Mrs. Dawson I think you'd both be happier if Sam was in a home.
PSYCHOLOGIST: Mr. Dawson, you do understand, that since I am a court appointed psychologist, the traditional client therapist confidentiality will be Mr. Dawson, do you understand that the confidentiality will be waived?
IFTY: Before you read your message press the red button for record, when you finish, press the yellow button. If you press the green button, it will play it back you. Let's start with the "ogm".
SAM: Okay, okay. I'm ready. Hello, I am No, no. I didn't press the red button.
IFTY: No, no. I didn't press the red button.
SAM: Oh, yes. False start, false start.
IFTY: It's not working. That's what you get for buying a used machine. Used means broken. You're asking for other people's problems, you have enough of your own, not that everyone doesn't have It's not used. It's pre-owned. Guy bought it for his auto shop and then he got a secretary.
BRAD: It's not used. It's pre-owned. Guy bought it for his auto shop and then he got a secretary.
IFTY: Testing, one two three.
SAM: That's a good code. I'll remember that. One, two, three.
IFTY: ( pressing button ) Quick, you're recording.
SAM: I'm hi. I am Sam. I'm not home.
ROBERT: No, you don't want to say that. you don't want them to know you're not home.
SAM: But then I'm lying.
ROBERT: Everybody's lying.
SAM: I'm not a liar. It will send a mixed message to Lucy.
IFTY: ( pressing the button ) You're on the air!
SAM: Let me see, let me see, let me see. Hi, how are you?
IFTY: That was pretty good. That was natural.
SAM: Did I sound like a good father?
IFTY: It's the outgoing message. You need to sound more outgoing. Let's start again.
ANSWERING MACHINE: Hi, it's Len's Auto Body Shop. We'd love to show you our body work, but it's invisible. Leave it at the beep.
LUCY: Try again. You must have dialed the wrong number.
RITA: Look, we've got a lot to go over and I've got five minutes.
SAM: ( pointing to elevator ) Rubel Bly Harrison and Williams thirty second floor, thirty-two floors up. One-twenty. Gotta get to one-twenty five to make it count. Okay okay okay. I'm gonna need that list of people who can testify that you're a good father despite your handicap. I didn't mean your handicap I meant your disability - I mean the fact that you're retarded. That's not the right word. I mean. What do I call you?
RITA: One-twenty. Gotta get to one-twenty five to make it count. Okay okay okay. I'm gonna need that list of people who can testify that you're a good father despite your handicap. I didn't mean your handicap I meant your disability - I mean the fact that you're retarded. That's not the right word. I mean. What do I call you?
SAM: Sam. I am Sam.
RITA: Yes you are.
SAM: He works in a bank.
RITA: ( tripping down the stairs )
IFTY: Sam is a very concerned father. He always saves his money at Bank of America. Last year there was a lion on the calendar. This year a gazelle. The gazelle is national bird of Tunisia. We have clients, not customers. At Bank of America. Bank on us.
ON BRAD: Who sits across from Rita. She tape records him.
BRAD: He always made a point of feeding her breakfast when "Bewitched" was on and lunch when "Jeopardy" was on so she'd be smart. Is that Wonderbra you're wearing? Because you look wonderful.
RITA: How long have you and Sam -
ROBERT: Why are you recording this? Who's It's often necessary -
RITA: It's often necessary -
ROBERT: Who are you really?
RITA: I'm -
ROBERT: What's that supposed to mean?
RITA: Let's -
ROBERT: I need to talk to my lawyer.
RITA: Patricia, get Mr. Dawson on the line.
RITA: I need this like a - call him at Starbucks - no I don't know which Starbucks. There's forty two between here and the end of the block.
RITA: Look I don't think you understand what you're up against we have to be in court in three days and we don't have a decent witness. Now you've gotta know someone who can testify who's been to college - or has a degree of some kind - or some sort of way of expressing themselves that's gonna make the court believe that you deserve to get your daughter back I need a coffee. Big. Tall.
SAM: Tall's the smallest.
RITA: Of course. Of course, whatever. Okay okay okay. Damn! I forgot to call back no I did and once you think of this person and there has to be one person - I want you to call me at work - because I'm going back there now to my seven other cases What? Mrs. Robeck? I'm on my way, the traffic's horrible on the 405. Dorothy, we put in five months lets not let a three car pile up..I know it's been enormously stressful.. Your Esczema? Oh, honey, nobody notices..AH! They opened a lane!
SAM: ( too loudly ) Do you want it here or to go?
RITA: ( dial tone ) Dorothy? Dorothy? No no no I didn't stare at the eczema for five months for -
SAM: Annie, it's one day. One hour. Maybe only 53 minutes. Lucy needs you. You went to college. You can give the right answers.
ANNIE: I can't. I'd make it worse for you. I can't do it. Don't you think I would if I could?
THERAPIST: .there is an unhealthy reversal of roles here. As you can see from her drawings, she has an exaggerated sense of responsibility. Lucy feels she has to take care of her father. Although at her birthday party her true feelings about her father were revealed.
RITA: Objection. "True feelings revealed"?!
TURNER: The state is paying Miss Geller for her opinions -
RITA: Then every child who rages because they didn't get to stay up for that extra hour of TV -
TURNER: Objection your honor -
RITA: .in fact any child who said they hated their parents because they didn't want to take a bath would be a prime candidate for Foster Care.
TURNER: I think they want you to stop.
SAM: I think they want you to stop.
RITA: Really?! Thank you, Sam.
JUDGE MCNEILY: We all appreciate your assistance Mr. Dawson - continue with your witness, Mr. Now Ms. Geller, I assume in your therapy session, Mr. Dawson extolled his parenting abilities.
TURNER: Now Ms. Geller, I assume in your therapy session, Mr. Dawson extolled his parenting abilities.
THERAPIST: On the contrary, Mr. Dawson admitted he felt profoundly inadequate - that he was terrified he'd made and would continue to make - and I quote: "Huge mistakes, huge mistakes, mistakes that are huge."
TURNER: No further questions. You're a mother, aren't you Ms. Geller?
RITA: You're a mother, aren't you Ms. Geller?
THERAPIST: Would it be fair to say that as a parent, you've felt confused from time to time, possibly overwhelmed on occasion, even though you're a wonderful Objection. It's Mr. Dawson's parenting. Not Ms. Geller's that's at question But if Ms. Geller has never had a moment where she felt confused as a mother it would bias her opinion. And it is her expert opinion we're all after, isn't it, Mr. Turner?
RITA: Would it be fair to say that as a parent, you've felt confused from time to time, possibly overwhelmed on occasion, even though you're a wonderful Objection. It's Mr. Dawson's parenting. Not Ms. Geller's that's at question But if Ms. Geller has never had a moment where she felt confused as a mother it would bias her opinion. And it is her expert opinion we're all after, isn't it, Mr. Turner?
TURNER: Objection. It's Mr. Dawson's parenting. Not Ms. Geller's that's at question But if Ms. Geller has never had a moment where she felt confused as a mother it would bias her opinion. And it is her expert opinion we're all after, isn't it, Mr. Turner?
RITA: But if Ms. Geller has never had a moment where she felt confused as a mother it would bias her opinion. And it is her expert opinion we're all after, isn't it, Mr. Turner?
JUDGE MCNEILY: Overruled. I'll allow it.
RITA: Thank you, your Honor. Ms. Geller, I know there have been many moments as a parent where I've felt I've made huge mistakes - mistakes that are huge. And I've had to admit them to myself. My husband. But most importantly, to my therapist. Which is the guise Mr. Dawson thought he was seeing you under, isn't that right, Ms. Geller?
TURNER: JUDGE MCNEILY
JUDGE MCNEILY: Get to the point, Ms. Harrison.
RITA: The point is you've never had those moments, have you Ms. Geller? Moments that every parent I've ever spoken to has - moments when you've felt the task is so unbelievably challenging that you feel retarded, disabled in some way. Moments when you feel everyone has the key but you. But you've never had those moments, have you Ms. Geller?
THERAPIST: I - Yes or no?
RITA: Yes or no?
THERAPIST: I - Let me rephrase the question. When your son od'ed -
RITA: Let me rephrase the question. When your son od'ed -
TURNER: But if Ms. Geller didn't feel she had made mistakes - mistakes that were huge it might bias her opinion toward Mr. I will -
RITA: But if Ms. Geller didn't feel she had made mistakes - mistakes that were huge it might bias her opinion toward Mr. I will -
JUDGE MCNEILY: I will -
RITA: Thank you. So Ms. Geller - yes or no - when your son od'ed, did you feel you might have made mistakes, mistakes that were huge?
THERAPIST: ( tearfully )
SAM: You made her cry.
RITA: You got lucky.
SAM: That's not nice. Not very nice.
RITA: Only in there.
SAM: Your secretary too. Yellow and green in one bowl. You separate the Lima beans from the corn please?
RITA: Sam, don't be impossible. Can I have the spinach omelet - only egg whites no fat no oil no butter and extra
CAFETERIA WORKER: Sam is anxiously separating his Lima beans and corn into separate piles. They arrive at the cashier. Rita pulls out her billfold. Sam reaches for his wallet.
SAM: My treat. My treat.
RITA: Don't be ridiculous. I'll get it.
SAM: I said it's my treat. That means I'll get it.
RITA: Sam, do you really want to get it or are you just trying to
SAM: Trying to what?
RITA: You know, trying to act like a -
SAM: Like a what?
RITA: Like a.a.
SAM: A real man?
RITA: I didn't say that.
SAM: You're my lawyer and you think what they think. I don't have a chance. No chance at all. Even with an expert I think.you deserve.a fair trial.
RITA: I think.you deserve.a fair trial.
SAM: Answer the question.
RITA: Okay okay okay. What was the question Do you think what they think? Sam can't order food. Sam can't pay a check. Sam can't take care of Lucy?
SAM: Do you think what they think? Sam can't order food. Sam can't pay a check. Sam can't take care of Lucy?
RITA: It doesn't matter what I think - it matters that we win.
SAM: You're my lawyer it matters what you Hey, it doesn't matter to them what I Me. It matters to me.
RITA: Hey, it doesn't matter to them what I Me. It matters to me.
SAM: Me. It matters to me.
RITA: Dr. Donovan, the American Medical Journal named you one of the country's leading oncologists. Isn't that What kept you going the twelve years you were in medical school?
DR. DONOVAN: What kept you going the twelve years you were in medical school?
RITA: What kept you going the twelve years you were in medical school?
DR. DONOVAN: Caffeine. Sugar. And my mother's confidence in me.
RITA: I wish I had a mother like that. She must have been smart.
DR. DONOVAN: She had great instincts.
RITA: Do you have any idea what her IQ was?
DR. DONOVAN: In the lower ranges. About eighty.
RITA: So your mother, this woman with the IQ of a nine-year old had the wisdom to recognize that you would be a great doctor. I guess her disability didn't seem to hold you back in life.
DR. DONOVAN: No. My mother's condition taught me what they can't teach you; compassion and patience.
RITA: Traits most doctors have in spades. Thank you, no further questions. How'd you get through medical school? Where'd you live?
TURNER: How'd you get through medical school? Where'd you live?
DR. DONOVAN: We lived with my mother's parents.
TURNER: Oh, Grandma and Grandpa. Would it be fair to say your grandparents were of normal intelligence?
DR. DONOVAN: And didn't these people - your grandparents - with normal intelligence - have the real responsibilities?
TURNER: And didn't these people - your grandparents - with normal intelligence - have the real responsibilities?
RITA: ( relishing this ) Objection! I hear Mr. Turner's mother in-law lives with him! She must help out. Does that mean he doesn't have the real -
TURNER: Motion to strike that from the record. Irrelevant, immaterial and immature -
RITA: Irrelevant?! Any parent has a right to a support system.
TURNER: I'm not talking about the rights of the parent, I'm talking about the rights of a child. I'm talking about entrusting an eight year old's welfare in the hands of someone whose records show he was diagnosed with infantile autism, mental Objection! Motion to strike that from the record. It's clear that one's intellectual capacity has no bearing on their ability to love. You Honor, would you please instruct council to proceed with a modicum of sensitivity?
RITA: Objection! Motion to strike that from the record. It's clear that one's intellectual capacity has no bearing on their ability to love. You Honor, would you please instruct council to proceed with a modicum of sensitivity?
TURNER: Oh, I'm sensitive. I'm real sensitive when I see people like you come here and try to give meaning to your life by screwing up somebody That's enough. Both lawyers approach the bench!
JUDGE MCNEILY: That's enough. Both lawyers approach the bench!
RITA: ( both approach ) And I suppose tearing apart a family is truly noble work, Mr. Turner.
JUDGE MCNEILY: That's it. I fine you both for contempt. Two-hundred fifty dollars.
TURNER: What's that to her? She gets that for picking up the phone.
RITA: Oh, that's what this is about.
TURNER: I'll tell you what this is about. See this is an award for you at some luncheon. But I'm here everyday. You win, you're out the door. But guess who I see come back? The kid. Most of the time, in less than a year. Only now it's too late. So you're right. I'm real sensitive. You can't even touch that area.
ON SAM: CUT TO:
LUCY: But how did he prove it?
SAM: Columbus had to sail around the world to prove it was round.
LUCY: You're so smart, Daddy.
MARGARET BROWN: Excuse me, time's up.
LUCY: Please. Just a little more.
MARGARET BROWN: I have another client at two-thirty. You need to put your shoes on and get ready to go.
LUCY: Oh no! There's a knot. A really big
MARGARET BROWN: I'll help you.
LUCY: I need to go to the bathroom.
LUCY: Daddy, she said we could go to the park.
SAM: What's going on? What made her change her mind?
LUCY: I started crying in the bathroom. She thought we needed more time.
SAM: That was so nice of her. Very nice.
LUCY: Let's not get off. Let's keep going.
SAM: No, Lucy.
LUCY: That would be wrong.
SAM: That would be wrong.
LUCY: Tamara's Mommy lost her case and Tamara hasn't seen her in six years. She's had five different mommies and one of them hit her.
SAM: I won't let that happen.
LUCY: That's what her real mommy said. And now they won't even let her talk to her.
SAM: I love you Lucy. I love you.
LUCY: My name isn't Lucy anymore, it's
COP: Hey, buddy. No loitering. Move it.
SAM: Not yet not yet not yet.
COP: You want me to get a black and white down here?
SAM: Not yet not yet not yet.
COP: Jesus Christ.
SAM: She hasn't been sleeping well. She needs a good night's rest. Let her sleep, let her sleep.
NO!: What are you, crazy?
COP: What are you, crazy?
RITA: What were you thinking what were you possibly thinking?!
SAM: I - That's ridiculous! Danny stay with me - What could you possibly gain by kidnapping your kid in the middle of a custody hearing?!
RITA: That's ridiculous! Danny stay with me - What could you possibly gain by kidnapping your kid in the middle of a custody hearing?!
SAM: She -
RITA: I don't wanna hear it! Can you possibly explain this to me?!
SAM: But Lucy said -
RITA: Who's the parent here? Who's the goddamned parent here? Danny! Stay in the hallway -
MARGARET BROWN: I'm -
RITA: But I ask you what parent in their right mind seeing their child in pain
MARGARET BROWN: I have seen -
RITA: Their yearning for contact - wouldn't take them in an attempt to comfort them? Where the hell is Danny?
MARGARET BROWN: You -
RITA: He -
MARGARET BROWN: There's -
RITA: Oh yes there is! And if I were you I'd look at my conscience you do have one don't you long and hard before I tried to use this in court.
MARGARET BROWN: Is that a threat?
RITA: No. It's a plea. Give'm a break. Give'm one goddman break.
MARGARET BROWN: What?! No, Mrs. Sloan. His temperature couldn't be 117, no not even 107. Okay, okay, I'll come.Come on Lucy, I'll take you back.
RITA: C'mon, Danny. We're going home. Danny!? Danny!?!?
LUCY: Please don't fire us. It was all my idea. Please don't. Please. Please.
BAILIFF: .the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God? So help me God.
LUCY: So help me God.
TURNER: I heard you turned seven this year. That's pretty exciting.
LUCY: Everybody gets older. It's not that big a deal.
TURNER: What'd you get for your birthday?
LUCY: I haven't opened my presents yet.
TURNER: Really? That's odd. Why not?
LUCY: I opened my presents. I got the HELP album - limited edition.
TURNER: Oh, I'm sorry. I was confused. I thought you didn't open your birthday presents because you ran away from your own party when your best friend told everyone that you were adopted.
LUCY: I never said that; why would I say that?
TURNER: Why would your friends say it if you hadn't said it?
LUCY: Kids lie all the time.
TURNER: May I remind you Lucy that you're under You may.
LUCY: You may.
TURNER: And do you know that means if you lie you could be in serious trouble?
LUCY: I do.
TURNER: So now that you and I have agreed to tell the truth, where did you sleep last
LUCY: In my bed at the Foster home.
TURNER: All right, Lucy. If you're not going to tell the truth, I am. Your dad kidnapped you last night and the police found you sleeping in a seedy park a hundred miles from here. You're lying right now because you're afraid. Afraid that everyone will see how scared and frustrated you really are. You're afraid of hurting him, but now we need to tell the truth. The truth is deep inside you know you're not getting what you need from your father. Isn't that right, Lucy?
LUCY: "All you need is love."
LUCY: Daddy! I did great, didn't I?
SAM: No, Lucy, you lied.
LUCY: Shhh! Don't tell anyone.
MARGARET BROWN: Lucy, Mrs. Kerry's here to take you I thought you'd be proud of me. Jo Jo's mom told him to lie on the stand and say he never saw a needle in the house; and he did, and now they're back together.
LUCY: I thought you'd be proud of me. Jo Jo's mom told him to lie on the stand and say he never saw a needle in the house; and he did, and now they're back together.
SAM: Jo Jo isn't us. The truth, the truth, when the judge hears the truth, he'll know, he'll know we should be together.
LUCY: ( bursting ) Nobody's interested in the truth, Daddy. Nobody cares!
SAM: I CARE! DO YOU HEAR ME? THE TRUTH. THE WHOLE TRUTH! SO HELP ME GOD!!
SAM: Help me, God. Help me, God. Help me,
GEORGE: Sam's my most reliable employee. He's never missed a day of work in eight years. Always warm, always friendly.
TURNER: Admirable qualities for a single father. Mr. Walker, in these eight years, have Mr. Dawson's responsibilities, which.let me see.would include bussing tables, replenishing Sweet 'n Lows, and sweeping up the place. No. Not really.
GEORGE: No. Not really.
TURNER: And isn't that because he's mentally incapable of learning management skills or working the cash register or even making a cup of coffee?
RITA: Objection. Leading the witness.
JUDGE MCNEILY: You may answer the question.
GEORGE: Well as a matter of fact, Sam and I have been discussing a promotion that I was planning on putting into effect at the end of the week.
SAM: Oh boy! Thank you, George!
TURNER: Yes. Thank you, George. Now, after eight years, Sam can finally measure out a teaspoon of coffee and cup of water. Now, he must certainly be able to help Lucy with her geometry.
RITA: Objection -
TURNER: No further questions.
RITA: .and when I ask another question?
IFTY: I answer in one sentence.
RITA: Yes. Short and sweet.
IFTY: Yes. One sentence. Short and sweet. My aunt was short and sweet. But her cooking was too spicy she.
SAM: Annie! I can't believe it!
ANNIE: ( visibly trembling ) Tell them to take me quickly.
RITA: Give me one minute with the judge.
RITA: Besides being Lucy's godmother, aren't you also Lucy's piano teacher?
ANNIE: Lucy's very lucky. Didn't you graduate Magna Cum Laud from the Julliard School of Music?
RITA: Lucy's very lucky. Didn't you graduate Magna Cum Laud from the Julliard School of Music?
ANNIE: Summa Cum Laud.
RITA: ( delighted ) Excuse me. Now Ms. Cassell, in all the time you've known them, have you ever questioned Sam's ability as a father?
ANNIE: Never. Look at Lucy. She's strong, she's able to display true empathy for people, all kinds of people. I know you all think she's as bright as she is despite him. But it's because of him.
RITA: Never. Look at Lucy. She's strong, she's able to display true empathy for people, all kinds of people. I know you all think she's as bright as she is despite him. But it's because of him.
ANNIE: Never. Look at Lucy. She's strong, she's able to display true empathy for people, all kinds of people. I know you all think she's as bright as she is despite him. But it's because of him.
TURNER: Can Sam add?
ANNIE: How about multiplication?
TURNER: How about multiplication?
ANNIE: He's learning.
TURNER: So what you're saying is that Sam can not even multiply two times two?
ANNIE: I don't know about you, Mr. Turner, but my fondest memories of my parents have nothing to do with times tables or state I bet he's knocking on your door all the time with questions.
TURNER: I bet he's knocking on your door all the time with questions.
ANNIE: Yes. All the time. The last question was whether to use Biz or Clorox to get the grass stains out of Lucy's soccer
TURNER: So let's see..he doesn't know math.he can't even wash her clothes. How about puberty? I can only imagine how much insight he'll bring to approaching the sensitive issues of a young girl's Mr. Turner, show me a father, any father, who knows how to do that and I'll give them the Parent of the Year And you've had plenty of opportunity to observe fathers, haven't you?
ANNIE: Mr. Turner, show me a father, any father, who knows how to do that and I'll give them the Parent of the Year And you've had plenty of opportunity to observe fathers, haven't you?
TURNER: And you've had plenty of opportunity to observe fathers, haven't you?
RITA: But the fact that Ms. Cassell hasn't come out of her room in years might have some effect on her perception.
TURNER: But the fact that Ms. Cassell hasn't come out of her room in years might have some effect on her perception.
JUDGE MCNEILY: I'll allow it.
ANNIE: I had twenty eight years in the world to observe all kinds of fathers.
TURNER: What about your father, Ms. Cassell? Since you appear to be an expert on father-daughter relationships.
SAM: Objection! No further questions!
TURNER: Excuse me, Mr. Dawson?
SAM: I said that's enough! I will not allow it! Overruled! Overruled!!
RITA: Thank you again, Annie. You were truly Extraordinary. Truly extraordinary.
SAM: Extraordinary. Truly extraordinary.
RITA: Okay okay okay okay. Well, Sam has his big day on the stand tomorrow and we need to work a little bit so that he's as effective as you were.
SAM: Effective. Very effective.
RITA: On a Porsche, the, uh, the door handle is a little hidden by that thingamajig, so if you're having a hard time finding it I'll just
ANNIE: Annie's not quite ready to go outside Okay, we'll just take our time.
SAM: Annie's not quite ready to go outside Okay, we'll just take our time.
RITA: Okay, we'll just take our time.
RITA: Home! Home! HOME GODDAMNIT! Juanita, help Danny with his English assignment. Ayude Danny un story.story.STORIO!
ANNIE: ( rising from the dead ) I'm ready now.
RITA: ( gently ) Good, fine, Sam? Annie's ready.
RITA: Okay okay okay okay. We'll work in the library. It's down the hall and to the
DANNY: ( staring at TV ) I don't want to guess. Where is he? ( Sam watches Rita ) I told you I don't want to guess.
RITA: I don't want to guess. Where is he? I told you I don't want to guess.
DANNY: Well where was he last night?
RITA: Working late.
DANNY: There you guessed it.
RITA: He said he was working late?
DANNY: That's what he said.
RITA: Well who did he say was taking care of You. But you said you were working I am working late.
DANNY: You. But you said you were working I am working late.
RITA: I am working late.
DANNY: Then go work.
RITA: How was your day?
DANNY: You have to work. Go work.
RITA: No. How was your -
SAM: This is my favorite part. Hey Dommy, this one looks like he's suffering from shell shock.
DANNY: Boy I guess we can shell it out. It was a shell of a good hit.
SAM: ( bellowing ) "Turtles in the half-shell, turtle power!" Rita! Come this is the best
SAM: You eat too fast. Come watch the movie.
RITA: It's getting late. We have to get to This is my husband's. He won't notice. He's got ten more just like it. Try it
SAM: No. Very, very good. But your tie's Cross over once. Loop it around on the inside of your neck. Slide the other side through the loop, then tighten.
RITA: No. Very, very good. But your tie's Cross over once. Loop it around on the inside of your neck. Slide the other side through the loop, then tighten.
SAM: Let me see let me see let me see.
RITA: Sam! I told you you have to stop that! It makes you look stupid! Okay okay okay. Try again. You say you will find her a tutor. Then I say, "How will you pay for it?"
SAM: Could you slow down? Why do you eat so We've gone over this a million times. You've found a free tutoring service for her at the YMCA.
RITA: ( ignoring him ) We've gone over this a million times. You've found a free tutoring service for her at the YMCA.
SAM: But I didn't. You did.
RITA: Can't you grasp the concept of manipulating the truth? Not lying. Just a little tweak here and there.
SAM: No.You're so lucky. You get to play with Danny all the time.
RITA: He doesn't want to play with me.
SAM: Yes he does. He does he does. He thinks you don't want to.
RITA: Oh that's ridiculous of course I want Tweak, tweak.
SAM: Tweak, tweak.
RITA: ( exploding ) I drove around after work yesterday 'til 9:30 looking for a goddman razor ( in his own world ) Tweak, squeak, peek peek.
SAM: ( in his own world ) Tweak, squeak, peek peek.
RITA: Okay, why did you harass that young boy at your home?
SAM: You know I didn't harass him, Rita. You know that, you know that!
RITA: Sam, I'm pretending to be Mr. Turner, remember? Okay?
SAM: Oh yeah yeah yeah yeah. I didn't harass him, Mr. Turner. Mr. Turner - You don't look like him.
RITA: That's a blessing.
SAM: You're so much prettier.
RITA: ( suddenly shy ) Thank you. Now. What makes you think you can take care of a woman - I mean a young child - when you have a hard time taking care of
RITA: But who are you kidding? Isn't Lucy already smarter than you?
SAM: In some ways. But in other ways, she's not, I think.
RITA: You think?
SAM: I think.
RITA: Sam. You've got to be firm on this.
SAM: I think in other ways I'm smarter than her. Smarter than you are, Mr. Turner. In fact, in some ways I'm smarter than you, Judge McNeilly.
RITA: Whoa! Bring it down.
SAM: What parent doesn't want more for their child? To be more than the sum of the parts of the whole of them.
RITA: Yeah yeah yeah, but it's one thing for a little girl to love her daddy when she's a baby, but once she loses respect for you, what will you do?
SAM: ( fierce ) I won't let that happen. I won't.
RITA: How can you say that?
SAM: Respect is not just about how smart someone is. Smart is not just about how smart someone is.
RITA: But what about Lucy? Aren't you being selfish? Doesn't she deserve a better life? Don't you think she's just pretending she's happy to not hurt your
SAM: Lucy is happy! We have fun! We go to Denny's, we go to video night. I know how to love her. I know I'm not going to able to go to law school and learn how to be a mean person, but I know how to love. I know how to be her father, Mr. Turner!
RITA: I know you do, Sam. I know you do.
GEORGE: You look great, Sam. What time do you have to be in court?
SAM: Half day, half day. I take the stand at
GEORGE: Okay, we need two grande cappucinos, non Sprinkles or Cinnamon?
SAM: Sprinkles or Cinnamon?
GUY: What is this? I ordered an Americano, not a latte.
SAM: Americano, Americano, not a latte.
SAM: I'm going to be late! I'm going to be I'll call a taxi.
GEORGE: I'll call a taxi.
SAM: No, no, I can't wait. I can't wait. I've got to go right now.
TURNER: Your Honor, if the defendant doesn't have enough interest in his daughter to even show up -
RITA: Your Honor, I'm sure he'll be here any moment. This is an extremely important day to Mr. Dawson.
JUDGE MCNEILY: Make it brief, Ms. Harrison.
RITA: What the hell happened? What is that smell? Mint?
SAM: ( a mile a minute ) Lucy needs me.
RITA: Yes, slow down because Lucy needs you.
SAM: Lucy needs you.
JUDGE MCNEILY: Ms. Harrison. We need you!
RITA: How will you be able to pay for private There's a free program at the YMCA. Lucy can go there.
SAM: There's a free program at the YMCA. Lucy can go there.
RITA: But don't you ever think it would be better for Lucy if she lived with a permanent foster family and you could visit whenever you wanted?
SAM: The Fosters don't know her. Why can't she live with me and they can come visit if they want to. I'm firm on this. And I'm getting firmer. Lucy belongs with
RITA: Sam puts his finger to his chin and starts his "Let me see." Rita gives him a look; he lowers his finger and starts talking very fast from the coffee. The STENOGRAPHER desperately tries to keep pace.
SAM: Paul wrote the first part of the song "Michelle". He said to John, "Where do I go from here?" John had been listening to Nina Simone. There was a line in it that went something like, "I love you, I love you, I love you." They put that into the song. It wouldn't be the same song without that. It made the song complete. That's why the whole world cried when they broke up on April 10, 1970.
ON RITA: Well, he has some kind of point. MARY, the Stenographer, is still typing.
JUDGE MCNEILY: Did you get that, Mary?
TURNER: When you were Lucy's age, were you living at home?
SAM: Were you living with your mother and Well then where were you living?
TURNER: Were you living with your mother and Well then where were you living?
SAM: Well then where were you living?
TURNER: Well then where were you living?
SAM: ( very quietly ) In an institution.
TURNER: So your parents put you in an Only after my mom got sick.
SAM: Only after my mom got sick.
TURNER: What about your father? Where was he?
SAM: Gone with the wind when Sam was born.
TURNER: So, you weren't raised by your mother?
SAM: I saw her I saw her.
TURNER: Christmas, Easter and my birthday.
SAM: Christmas, Easter and my birthday.
TURNER: Oh, once a year on your birthday. So in a way, the people at the institution were your parents. Were they nice to Some yes. Some on. Some yes.
SAM: Some yes. Some on. Some yes.
TURNER: Did they hit you?
SAM: Sometimes. Sometimes they did Like when you hit Lucy's friend at her birthday party?
TURNER: Like when you hit Lucy's friend at her birthday party?
RITA: Objection! Nobody hit anybody!
TURNER: Let me rephrase that, strong-armed. So what role model do you call upon as a father when you're parenting Lucy? The head of the institution? The Principal the warden?
SAM: No. Not Mr. Whitehead. Not him.
TURNER: Then who?
SAM: you have the mental capacity of a seven year old. So you ask yourself, a seven year old -
TURNER: you have the mental capacity of a seven year old. So you ask yourself, a seven year old -
SAM: I am not a seven-year old.
TURNER: How to parent a fellow seven-year old?
SAM: Yes. No. What was the question?
TURNER: The question is: what makes you think you can be a parent? Your background? Your IQ? Your friends who can't even testify for you?
RITA: Objection -
SAM: My friends -
RITA: Objection -
SAM: My friends love Lucy even if Rita thought they weren't smart enough to testify. Even if she said you'd wipe the floor with them.
ON RITA: Trying to telepathically reach Sam.
TURNER: Excuse me, Mr. Dawson, your lawyer just objected; that means you didn't have to answer the question. You can't even follow the simple rules you've watched here day after day. You really think you can raise a seven-year old? A ten year old? A thirteen-year old? That means she'll be six years more advanced than you.
SAM: I've had a lot of time to think about whatever it is that makes somebody a good parent. It has to do with constancy. It has to do with patience. It has to do with listening. To pretending to listen when you can't even listen anymore.
IFTY: All eyes TURN to the back of the room. Ifty is there trying with all his might to help his friend.
TURNER: Right, "Kramer vs. Kramer." Thank you for the commentary, Mr. Bhutto. It's hard to find words isn't it, Mr. Dawson. It's confusing. It's confusing to know what to say to Lucy half the time, isn't
SAM: No, yes, no.
TURNER: No what?
SAM: Let me see let me see let me see.
TURNER: You don't know what?
SAM: Yes. You're right, you don't know. You don't know enough to really raise your Objection. These aren't questions, these are attacks.
TURNER: Yes. You're right, you don't know. You don't know enough to really raise your Objection. These aren't questions, these are attacks.
RITA: Objection. These aren't questions, these are attacks.
SAM: ( frantic ) I am Lucy's father.
TURNER: Are you? Are you really? I'm not talking about the fact that you got some homeless woman pregnant.
RITA: Objection your Honor. I motion a Denied. Get to the question, Mr. The question is if you love your daughter as much as they say you do don't you think she deserves more?! Don't you? In your heart of hearts, secretly question yourself every day? Don't you?!
JUDGE MCNEILY: Denied. Get to the question, Mr. The question is if you love your daughter as much as they say you do don't you think she deserves more?! Don't you? In your heart of hearts, secretly question yourself every day? Don't you?!
TURNER: The question is if you love your daughter as much as they say you do don't you think she deserves more?! Don't you? In your heart of hearts, secretly question yourself every day? Don't you?!
SAM: Was that a "yes?"
TURNER: Was that a "yes?"
RITA: Yes. She does. She deserves everything. In my heart of hearts.
SAM: Yes. She does. She deserves everything. In my heart of hearts.
TURNER: Yes she does. And you agree with everyone, you can't give her that?
SAM: ( in unbearable pain ) Maybe. Maybe everybody's right.
ON TURNER: There. He got it.
ON RITA: Anguished. Watching Sam unravel as he stands up and starts walking around in a circle in the witness box.
LUCY: Sitting, hopeful on the bench. She searches Sam's face for the verdict. The minute she sees sorrow in his eyes, she knows. She runs to him, gluing herself to his chest.
LUCY: No Daddy! No Daddy! No Daddy!
MARGARET BROWN: C'mon, Lucy. It's time to say goodbye.
LUCY: NOOOO! Don't let go don't let go don't let go -
MARGARET BROWN: Please help me.
REVERSE ANGLE: Lucy looking absolutely radiant in a new spring dress. She stands on the front porch with RANDY, who wears a red smock and is setting up TWO EASELS AND PAINTS. There's a tiny chair for Lucy and a tiny chair for her.
RANDY: Your teacher told me you were an artist.
LUCY: You wear too much perfume. You're trying too hard.
RANDY: I am, aren't I. Maybe you could teach me how to paint.
LUCY: My daddy's coming today. We're going to open my birthday presents. Why don't you just go do something.
MAN: Excuse me, my kid knocked over a coffee, could you clean this up?
SAM: ( snapping ) You need a towel? A refill? A glass of water? You need more than you already have? You have everything - ( all his fury and frustration ) Everything. But it's not enough. Take my daughter, too!
LUCY: You gave him the wrong address! You're hiding me from him!
LUCY: You're going to send me away now, aren't
RANDY: ( tenderly )
RANDY: Oh, he must've forgotten to put the gift
LUCY: What's the longest any one of those kids stayed with you?
RANDY: Megan stayed a little over a year.
LUCY: ( averting her eyes ) Did you ever want any of them to stay
ON RANDY: Moved herself. Understanding how huge a question this is coming from this bruised little heart.
RITA: I don't have time for this! You were supposed to show up for your first evaluation. And I leave work early to get there and where the hell are you?! Open the door! Sam! Open the goddamn Alright. If you don't care enough to open the goddamn door I'm outta here! I've ruined my practice, I've alienated my colleagues - I sent my kid off on a fishing trip with his father so I could work with you and you won't open your goddman door for me?! Fine! THAT'S IT! I've had enough! Sam, it's Rita. Can I come in?
RITA: Sam, it's Rita. Can I come in?
SAM: No room. No room.
RITA: Hey. I lived in the East Village. I don't need a lot of room.
SAM: Sam makes life too hard. Sam makes life too hard on everyone.
RITA: Sam, I can go at least nine more rounds. But you gotta let me in. Please Sam.
SAM: I don't want to work there anymore. Too many people.
RITA: Maybe we could find you a quieter job. Because remember one of the judges conditions is you have to earn more money; you've got to keep earning more money for when we get you Lucy back.
SAM: Lucy doesn't need me anymore. She has a new family. She doesn't need me Is that what she said?
RITA: Is that what she said?
SAM: She didn't have to say it. I may be stupid, but I know. I know.
RITA: Well that's the first stupid thing I've ever heard you say.
SAM: I tried. I tried.
RITA: Try harder.
SAM: You don't know. You don't know.
RITA: I don't know?
SAM: You don't know what it is to try and try and never get there. You were born perfect, perfect.
RITA: Is that right? Everyone else is perfect but only Sam feels loss and pain?
SAM: That's right. People like you don't People like me?
RITA: People like me?
SAM: People like you don't know, don't know what hurt feels like, people like you don't feel, don't feel anything. You think you got the market cornered on human suffering? Well let me tell you something about "People like me." People like me feel little and lost and ugly and dispensable. People like me have perfect husbands screwing someone far more perfect than me and my son, my son hates me, I try too hard and I push and he knows it and I talk in that voice, that voice I promised I'd never use, and I've screamed, I've screamed horrible things to him, a five year-old because he doesn't want to get in the car at the end of a day and he stares at me with such anger and I hate him then. I know I'm failing you, I know I'm disappointing you, I know you deserve better but get in the fucking car! It's like every morning I wake up and fail, and I look around and anybody, anybody can pull it off, but somehow I can't. And I know, I know I have everything, and I'm still miserable and it's pathetic. I know it's pathetic. No matter how hard I try, something about me will never be enough.
RITA: You think you got the market cornered on human suffering? Well let me tell you something about "People like me." People like me feel little and lost and ugly and dispensable. People like me have perfect husbands screwing someone far more perfect than me and my son, my son hates me, I try too hard and I push and he knows it and I talk in that voice, that voice I promised I'd never use, and I've screamed, I've screamed horrible things to him, a five year-old because he doesn't want to get in the car at the end of a day and he stares at me with such anger and I hate him then. I know I'm failing you, I know I'm disappointing you, I know you deserve better but get in the fucking car! It's like every morning I wake up and fail, and I look around and anybody, anybody can pull it off, but somehow I can't. And I know, I know I have everything, and I'm still miserable and it's pathetic. I know it's pathetic. No matter how hard I try, something about me will never be enough.
SAM: You're enough. You're so much more than Lovely Rita.
RANDY: You're early.
SAM: All the lights were green.
RANDY: There's a reason for the court schedule. You stopped showing up. Lucy has had to rebuild her life.
SAM: I want her back. I can do it. I know I That's not up to me, but I'm telling you, I will do everything in my power to prevent Lucy from getting hurt again.
RANDY: That's not up to me, but I'm telling you, I will do everything in my power to prevent Lucy from getting hurt again.
SAM: Supplemental income supplemental income - bathe, walk and feed. Sam Dawson meets your canine needs. Sit! Sit! Sit! Sit! Sit! Sit!
LUCY: You never came! You never even called! You forgot about me! How could you forget me!
SAM: I never forgot you. I forgot me.
PULL BACK: To reveal Sam, in white apron and hat, deftly filling the containers of the elaborate salad bar as people fill their INT. COURTHOUSE - HALLWAY - DAY Sam walks toward the courtroom when we see Rita approaching from the other end of the hall. They both slow down when they see each other. Rita unconsciously fixes her hair. Sam adjusts his tie.
SAM: Napa cabbage, excellent choice. Purple and green, purple and green. Very rich in Vitamin C. Good choice. Very good
RITA: Hello, Sam. Mr. Dawson. Sam. Dawson.
SAM: Hello, lawyer.
RITA: Shall we?
SAM: No. We already did. Don't tell
RITA: Furthermore, my client has found a new job, and is making every effort to find a bigger apartment so that -
SAM: Rita stares at the barrette as if it were the murder weapon.
RITA: Oh, thank you. What a.a lovely barrette, Mr. Dawson. It will look great on Lucy. Who I'm sure you bought it for. Furthermore, so that.there will be more room for Lucy as she grows All of that is well and good but the fact that Mr. Dawson quite his job, missed his hearing, and did not even show up for his visits with his The fact that my client went through profound depression is the most natural reaction any parent could have.
MARGARET BROWN: All of that is well and good but the fact that Mr. Dawson quite his job, missed his hearing, and did not even show up for his visits with his The fact that my client went through profound depression is the most natural reaction any parent could have.
RITA: The fact that my client went through profound depression is the most natural reaction any parent could have.
MARGARET BROWN: But once again he had no idea how his behavior during that depression impacted on his daughter.
RITA: In these next months, Mr. Dawson will be expanding his support system to include Social Service programs, tutors
MARGARET BROWN: It's too late! The foster family is petitioning the court for sole custody of Lucy and I fully support their
IFTY: Isn't it illegal? It's illegal to go through stop signs. It's illegal to cross on the red.
RITA: It's not illegal. It's very complicated. When a strong foster parent lobbies for a child it changes the equation.
ROBERT: They're reaching right through Sam as if he doesn't exist. As if he's a ghost.
RITA: There's one option we've never talked about, Sam. I know what you went through the last time you took the stand. We could settle out of court, ask for the most incredible visitation rights - it would almost seem like joint custody.
SAM: You're saying I don't have a chance. That's what you're saying.
RITA: I'm not saying you don't have a chance.
ROBERT: That's what you said last time and look where he is now.
SAM: Stop. Rita's not saying I don't have a chance. Are you? Tell me I have a
IFTY: Oh my God! 6:35 is Video Night at my house and I'm not even there!
ROBERT: If we get there before you do we'll wait for you - check!
BRAD: Sam get your dessert to go.
SAM: This is very hard to say. I'm having my dessert here. With Rita. I'm not coming to video night. Sam - if you want to go.
RITA: Sam - if you want to go.
SAM: I said no, Rita.
RITA: I know, but if you -
SAM: What? Do you want me to go?
RITA: I didn't say that. But do you want to
SAM: IFTY, ROBERT & BRAD
RITA: IFTY, ROBERT & BRAD
SAM: IFTY, ROBERT & BRAD
RITA: IFTY, ROBERT & BRAD
RITA: I've got it.
SAM: I've got it.
RITA: ( carefully ) Yes we do.
SAM: I need to get Lucy back. We need, we need - to be professional.
RITA: Do you know what that means?
SAM: When dealing with Starbucks' customers, be friendly but not familiar. I can be your friend.
RITA: ( oddly touched ) Thank you, Sam.
SAM: You need to leave your husband.
RITA: ( her armor up again ) Oh, my marriage isn't so bad.
SAM: 'Life is very short and there's no time for fussing and fighting, my friend.'
RITA: ( undone ) It's just.it's just that.I've never lost anything.
LUCY: We've made $22.36. That's seven dollars, 64 cents less than thirty.
RANDY: Well that's one way of looking at it.
REVERSE ANGLE: Sam stands there. Holding three kittens. WE see various dogs in arm chairs, the couch.
LUCY: What are you doing here?
RANDY: What are you doing here?
SAM: I live here. This is where I live.
LUCY: This is where you live? So close to me?
SAM: I wanted to be close to you. I wanted to be closer. Look at my apartment John was born on October 9th. His son was born on October 9th.
LUCY: John met Yoko on November 9th.
SAM: His mother lived at 9 Newcastle, Newcastle. 9 letters. Liverpool - 9 Lucy, give me one minute with your father. Sam, I consider myself an understanding person but I don't understand this. You can't close the distance between you and Lucy with a new address. We go to court in a week -
LUCY: Newcastle. 9 letters. Liverpool - 9 Lucy, give me one minute with your father. Sam, I consider myself an understanding person but I don't understand this. You can't close the distance between you and Lucy with a new address. We go to court in a week -
RANDY: Lucy, give me one minute with your father. Sam, I consider myself an understanding person but I don't understand this. You can't close the distance between you and Lucy with a new address. We go to court in a week -
SAM: I don't want to spend half my visit with Lucy on the bus getting to Lucy. I don't want to waste one more minute.
LUCY: ( from the doorway ) Does Buster still have his cold?
SAM: He's better, much better. Now I'll have one box of mint chocolate cookies.
LUCY: That'll be three-eighty six.
SAM: Lucy Lucy. What are you doing?! You could have really hurt yourself. What are you doing?
LUCY: I couldn't sleep. Daddy, did you know that Warren G. Harding was the twenty ninth President of the United States?
SAM: Remember - the twenty-ninth President. In case the Judge asks.
LUCY: Remember - the twenty-ninth President. In case the Judge asks.
SAM: She couldn't sleep.
RANDY: Give me my daugh - Give me - I'll take Lucy.
SAM: Maybe if you rub her tummy twenty-three times, tell her two stories and give her half a Denny's blueberry muffin and a third of a glass of milk she'll sleep. Good night.
RANDY: ( tenderly ) Lucy. Come here.
LUCY: Thank you. Goodnight.
RANDY: ( words caught in her throat ) Goodnight, Lucy.
RITA: My husband left this when he moved out.
SAM: Oh, lovely Rita, meter maid.
RITA: ( entering ) Nice place. I worry. I worry You worry you did the wrong thing?
SAM: You worry you did the wrong thing?
RITA: I worry that I've gotten more out of this relationship than you.
SAM: No no no. I'm the lucky one. I have the lawyer that never loses.
RITA: ( covering ) That's me.okay, let me see, let me see, let me see. ( pulls out notes ) They're going to put Bill and Randy on the stand first and then you.
SAM: Them first, then me. They're a nice couple. They have a nice house. She's pretty. She's smart, too. I can tell. The manager of the salad bar is gonna testify, isn't he? That will help us.
RITA: Nobody believed that George Harrison could really be a song writer. But he wrote "Here Comes the Sun". John and Paul said it was one of the best songs on ABBEY ROAD.
SAM: Nobody believed that George Harrison could really be a song writer. But he wrote "Here Comes the Sun". John and Paul said it was one of the best songs on ABBEY ROAD.
RITA: ( tenderly ) George was always my favorite Beatle.
SAM: Lucy's was Paul.
LUCY: What honey?
RANDY: What honey?
LUCY: Now. I want to see him now.
RANDY: She fell asleep on the car ride over. I was gonna turn back and tuck her in to her bed.with the pink canopy.and the quilt I made.But I was afraid she'd wake up at our house. .and want to come home.
SAM: I hope I hope I hope that you're saying what I think you're saying even though you're not saying it.
RANDY: Goodnight. I'll see you in court. Save me a seat.on your side.
SAM: Randy! If I tell you I can't do it alone, will you tell the judge?
RANDY: ( turns gently ) I've looked and looked for a mother for Help, I need someone, help, not just anyone. You're the red in Lucy's
SAM: I've looked and looked for a mother for Help, I need someone, help, not just anyone. You're the red in Lucy's
RANDY: I've looked and looked for a mother for Help, I need someone, help, not just anyone. You're the red in Lucy's
SAM: I've looked and looked for a mother for Help, I need someone, help, not just anyone. You're the red in Lucy's
ON RANDY: So unexpectedly bonded to them both.
SAM: Penalty! Rules broken. Penalty,
OBNOXIOUS MOM: Get her! Phillip, you get her!
ROBERT: I saw that! You gave him a secret signal! Didn't you?
IFTY: Keep both eyes on the ball, Lucy - balls are round - on sale at Kmart. The earth is a ball, too.
SAM: Penalty! Repeat! Rules broken! Penalty?! Sue him! Kick his ass outta the game!
ON LUCY: Looks over at her father. Sam does every coaching gesture, and referee hand signal from every sport known to man. It looks like a bizarre TWYLA THARP DANCE.
ON LUCY: She does it right back at him. Their secret code. The code that will bind them for the rest of their lives.
SAM: Play ball! Play ball!
