A HAND: wraps around his throat. He is effortlessly hoisted by a TOWERING MAN with skin as cold and pale as alabaster.
THE SYMBOL: searing into his skin. As he leans forward to grip his ankle, he cartwheels off the jet ski and viciously body-slams across the water.
BLONDE GIRL: Daniel, what's wrong? Did you break your ankle? But as she turns him over, she sees the light leaking from between his fingers and reels back.
BLONDE GIRL: Oh my God. He stares up into the crowd's fearful faces, then staggers to his feet and takes off running.
DANIEL: Number 3 is dead. Henri's eyes narrow with urgency. He is immediately on his feet, he kneels at Daniel's side and studies the symbol on the teen's ankle. It has stopped glowing but is painfully raw. Directly below this fresh wound are
HENRI: Did anybody else see this? OFF Daniel's panicked nod.
A GECKO: skitters across the ceiling, its glossy black eyes watch as Daniel frantically stuffs his clothes into a duffel bag. The walls are bare. No photos, no posters, no personality. Henri enters, holding a crate of computer cables.
HENRI: Taillights in five minutes. What we can't carry
DANIEL: we burn. I know the drill.
HENRI: Time to go.
HENRI: Florida's clear. I sent a letter to the school and there's nothing in the papers.
DANIEL: I didn't even get a chance to say Henri keeps going, passes an envelope across the table.
HENRI: New IDs. Daniel pulls out his birth certificate, reads the name.
DANIEL: Just when I think you can't get any less original, you lower the bar.
HENRI: I'm not interested in originality. I'm interested in untraceable. There are 335,321 John Smiths in the United States. ( Note: from this point on, Daniel will be called John. ) John looks at him, then abruptly gets up and storms away. Henri drops $20 on the table and calmly heads after him.
JOHN: It's been so long since the last You got lulled into a false sense of security. That's my fault. John struggles to keep his temper in check.
HENRI: You got lulled into a false sense of security. That's my fault. John struggles to keep his temper in check.
JOHN: I liked Florida. I liked having friends. I liked feeling normal. Henri's face softens with paternal compassion.
HENRI: I wish that you could have a normal life but you can't. Only now does John turn and face him. His eyes blaze with Then why fake it? Why not just go hole up in the wilderness.
JOHN: Then why fake it? Why not just go hole up in the wilderness.
HENRI: That's exactly what Number 3 did.
HENRI: It's from an African news site. A man and his son went missing two nights ago. The locals think they were taken by strange beasts. John understands the implication.
JOHN: The Mogadorians are natural-born hunters. Blending in is our best So we just keep moving from town to Until I say otherwise yes. John waits as a TRUCKER passes through the room. His voice softens but never loses its intensity.
HENRI: The Mogadorians are natural-born hunters. Blending in is our best So we just keep moving from town to Until I say otherwise yes. John waits as a TRUCKER passes through the room. His voice softens but never loses its intensity.
JOHN: So we just keep moving from town to Until I say otherwise yes. John waits as a TRUCKER passes through the room. His voice softens but never loses its intensity.
HENRI: Until I say otherwise yes. John waits as a TRUCKER passes through the room. His voice softens but never loses its intensity.
JOHN: I want to be from someplace, Henri.
HENRI: You are.
JOHN: Lorien's your home, I don't even remember it. John's tone rubs Henri the wrong way.
HENRI: Like it or not, it's your home too. You have a responsibility to those who died.
JOHN: I want a say in where we live. ( off Henri's face ) You already picked it, didn't you?
HENRI: Cheer up, you're going to be living in Paradise.
JOHN: She looks even perkier than the realtor in Florida. A warm smile graces her round face and she's clutching a fruit basket. For the record, she is called ANNIE.
HENRI: What's your name?
JOHN: John Smith.
HENRI: Where are you from, John?
JOHN: Why did you move to Paradise?
HENRI: Why did you move to Paradise?
JOHN: Because you're an asshole. John waits for a reaction but doesn't get one.
JOHN: Because my dad needs peace and quiet to research his book. Henri nods and smiles wryly.
HENRI: This was a lot easier when you were
ANNIE: Here we are. Home sweet home. They scan the faded interior. The place is in desperate need of a makeover. A grandfather clock pensively TICKS at the end of the hall. Annie remains relentlessly optimistic.
ANNIE: First impressions?
HENRI: It's perfect. Annie places the fruit basket on the dining table and begins turning on the lights.
JOHN: That's one word for it. Stewing, John exits into the hall with his duffel bag. Annie reads the strained dynamic.
ANNIE: I feel your pain. I have a daughter his age. Apparently, I ruin her life on a daily basis. John steps back in, holding a sun-faded poster featuring NFL great Bernie Kosar.
JOHN: This guy was covering a hole in my Annie's cheeks blush with annoyance.
ANNIE: I told the handyman to patch that before you arrived. I'm so sorry.
HENRI: Don't you worry about it. She nods, grateful.
ANNIE: We'll knock it off the rent. Keep the poster, Bernie Kosar brings good luck here in the Buckeye EXT. HOUSE - NIGHT The rain has stopped. The wind RUSTLES the trees. John lifts out the last box. As he closes the trunk, he doesn't notice the hitchhiking gecko hotfoot it out.
JOHN: That's the last of them. I'm hitting the sack.
HENRI: I need a new photo first. John crosses and stands against the wall.
HENRI: Say Paradise. John gives him a withering look. Henri flashes off a shot. The camera is cabled to one of the laptops. TIGHT ON LAPTOP: The image of John pixelates onto a digital grid and a face-recognition program begins to map his facial Henri turns to another laptop.
HENRI: I've imputed the new search words: Daniel Jones. Big Pine Key. Sunset High School. You think of any others?
JOHN: Yeah, this place sucks.
HENRI: If there's a story or picture of you on the internet, this program will find it. Our enemy doesn't know who you are I want to keep it that way. John nods, knows he's being a jerk.
JOHN: Sand Dollar Beach, that's where we were jet skiing. Henri types it in when something SCRATCHES at the door. Their heads instantly turn towards the sound. Tense SILENCE. SLOW PUSH IN ON THE DOOR as another SCRATCH echoes. Henri is on his feet. He flicks off the lights and silently signals John to retreat down the hall. With the cool air of an assassin, Henri unzips a duffel bag and pulls out a sleek crystal-handled dagger. As he steps to the door.
HENRI: I found our intruder he's a little small for a Mogadorian. At that moment,
A BEAGLE: slips between Henri's legs. It cocks its head, studies John's face, then pads forward and licks his cheek.
JOHN: He's starving, doesn't have any collar or tags.
HENRI: Must have been dumped.
JOHN: You know, another pair of eyes and ears watching the house wouldn't be a bad thing. Henri considers the request, nods. John playfully ruffles the dog's head.
HENRI: What are you going to call him?
JOHN: Since I need all the luck I can get how about Bernie Kosar?
JOHN: Wow. You outdid yourself. What's Henri lifts a red backpack into view. John stares at it.
JOHN: I already have a backpack.
HENRI: This one has five days of rations, spare clothes, cash and a handheld GPS. Keep it with you at all Henri, come on.
JOHN: Henri, come on.
HENRI: Game's changed. You're in the crosshairs now. You have to be ready to leave at a moment's notice. With or without me. John stares at the backpack, takes in this new reality. He pushes the plate away, snatches the backpack and heads out the door. Henri stares at the omelette, tastes a pinch of hash browns, then puts the plate on the floor on his way out. It takes Bernie 2.5 seconds to race over and start to eat.
JOHN: Bernie, what the hell. were you hiding in the car? He scoops the dog into his arms.
JOHN: He's not supposed to be here.
SARAH: He's really well-trained. How long have you had him? John turns away.
JOHN: Sorry about your shot.
SARAH: No worries. He begins walking towards the entrance.
SARAH: You just moved into the house on Old Mill Road. It's John, right?
SARAH: Don't worry, I'm not stalking you. My mom said she rented it to a guy with a son my age. Since I know every other face on this quad, that had to be you.
SARAH: Where are you from?
JOHN: Someplace warmer.
SARAH: I don't think that qualifies as an actual answer.
JOHN: I need to register. She raises her camera to snap a shot of him.
JOHN: Whoa. What are you doing?
SARAH: Capturing your first day, even though you're technically six weeks Please don't point that at me.
JOHN: Please don't point that at me.
SARAH: Afraid the camera's going to steal your soul? She lifts the viewfinder to her eye, adjusts focus. Annoyed, he covers the lens with his hand.
JOHN: What's your problem? I said no.
SARAH: It's only for the yearbook. John regains his composure.
JOHN: I'm not big into having my picture taken. Sorry. As he heads away, Sarah watches, intrigued. CAMERA TRACKS TO REVEAL MARK JAYNE monitoring the encounter. He's the star quarterback and his chiselled jaw tenses with jealousy.
A BACKPACK: viciously sideswipes him. The textbooks scatter across the checkerboard linoleum. John sees the culprit is Mark Jayne, who offers him a taunting grin. John fights his urge to react and watches as Mark struts over to his POSSE OF JOCKS.
SAM: His name's Mark Jayne. Quarterback, sheriff's son, he's three years into the best four years of his life. John begins retrieving the fallen books. Sam helps.
SAM: Do yourself a favor stay off his Didn't know I was on it.
JOHN: Didn't know I was on it.
SAM: You were talking to Sarah Harte.
JOHN: She was talking to me.
SAM: Mark and Sarah have been exclusive since Freshmen year.
SAM: If there's another guy in her airspace, he shoots them down. You got a warning shot. John piles the books into his locker.
JOHN: Maybe I'll fire back next time.
SAM: Look, you're new, so let me tell you how things work in this misnamed backwater. Football players are gods the rest of us are mere mortals. If you want to survive, keep your head down and don't make waves.
JOHN: You sound like my dad.
SAM: Obviously a wise man.
JOHN: Thanks for the download. As he SLAMS his locker shut.
COACH: Alright, people. Let's hit the The assembled teens GROAN and fan off towards the mouth of a tunnel that stares out from the base of the bleachers.
COACH: Okay, half court, three on three. Girls have this basket, boys have that one.
COACH: New kid, you're up. Show me what you've got. John steps onto the court and waits for the ball to come his way. He steals a glance and sees Sarah and Mark arguing. A blur of orange. John swings back and catches the ball. Just as he shoots, he's distracted by Sarah's upset voice.
THE SHOT: goes wild, misses the basket but hits the glass backboard with such force that it
COACH: Enough! Hit the showers.
HENRI: Let's keep this our little secret. OFF Bernie's inquisitive eyes.
SAM: First day here and you're already destroying school property. So much for not making waves. John moves past him and grabs a tray. He's flushed and his face is now hot and red.
JOHN: It was an accident.
SAM: I hear the real spectator sport was Mark and Sarah's blowout. John wipes his brow, distracted.
SAM: Dude, you okay?
JOHN: At that moment, Mark Jayne and his buddy, KEVIN, cut in front of them. Annoyed, John taps Mark on the shoulder.
MARK: You got a problem?
JOHN: Line starts back there.
MARK: Football players get priority.
JOHN: Where's that posted?
MARK: Unwritten rule.
MARK: If you don't know your place around here, things can get rough. John holds his ground.
JOHN: In that case, I guess I better ask you where I should sit. I was thinking about grabbing that chair next to your girlfriend. In a flash of anger, Mark whips up his tray, hammers it into John's chest, knocking him to the floor.
MARK: You want to talk trash? Let's see you back it up. John tries to stand, but is suddenly overcome with a wave of pain. He looks down at his hands and is alarmed to see
LIGHT: blooming from his palms! He quickly balls them into fists, extinguishing the light from view.
MARK: Get up! SILENCE has fallen. Still clenching his fists, John rises and stumbles out into the hall. OFF Sarah's concern as she watches him exit.
SAM: Dude, hold up! John leans against the wall, keeping his hands out of sight.
SAM: You look like crap. I'll get the But as Sam runs off, John heads in the other direction.
JOHN: Henri, what's happening to me?
HENRI: Calm down. You're going to be John angrily holds up one of his luminescent hands.
JOHN: On what planet is this okay?
HENRI: ( BEAT )
JOHN: Okay, start talking. What the hell's going on?
HENRI: Your first Legacy is starting to An extraordinary ability. Yours is called Lumen. They start a lot sooner on Lorien. I was beginning to fear yours would never emerge.
JOHN: An extraordinary ability. Yours is called Lumen. They start a lot sooner on Lorien. I was beginning to fear yours would never emerge.
HENRI: An extraordinary ability. Yours is called Lumen. They start a lot sooner on Lorien. I was beginning to fear yours would never emerge.
JOHN: You knew this was going to happen? Why didn't you say anything?
HENRI: I didn't want to worry you. You were already under enough pressure.
JOHN: What else have you been hiding from INT. LIVING ROOM - HOUSE - NIGHT The curtains are drawn. Bernie Kosar dozes on the couch while John and Henri sit at the table, staring at the Box.
HENRI: This couldn't be opened until your first Legacy appeared. Ready? John nods nervously. Henri places the fingertips of his right hand onto five petal-shaped discs inlaid onto the lid. John cautiously follows suit and places his fingers on the “petals” fanned across the opposite side.
THE DISCS: momentarily glow and a SHARP CLICK echoes from within. John and Henri pull their hands away and watch as the Box miraculously comes to life. Fissures of light sweep across the lines of inlaid stone, dividing the lid into sections that begin to twist and reform like high-tech origami.
JOHN: PUSH IN ON Bernie as he sits up and watches the Box unfold. Like an intricate jigsaw, the sections finally regroup, creating a new pattern on the lid. It's a familiar geometric symbol. John touches the crystal pendant that hangs from his neck the symbols are an exact match.
HENRI: Open it. John nods, cautiously lifts the lid, revealing a neat assortment of velvet pouches and an array of colored rocks. They range in size and color but all share a serene beauty.
JOHN: What are they?
HENRI: Crystals from Lorien's core. They'll guide us in your training. John tries to reach for one, but Henri slaps his hand away.
HENRI: Place your hand over them. John follows the instruction and is amazed when a walnut- sized crystal floats up from the Box. It slowly begins to spin and project
HENRI: Our solar system. Henri points to a planet. Its oceans are dark with pollution and its sprawling continents are barren and treeless.
HENRI: That's what Lorien looked like thousands of years ago. We had all the problems that Earth has today. The planet was dying until our people made a collective decision to change and slowly Lorien began to heal itself that's when the Legacies started. John watches as the spinning planet transforms before his eyes. Its oceans turn a vibrant chroma-key blue and the land masses become a lush emerald green.
HENRI: Only a select few developed these abilities. They became known as the Garde.
JOHN: That's what I am?
HENRI: Like your parents and grandparents. John considers this new information.
JOHN: The other children in the ship. Henri finishes John's thought.
HENRI: They're Garde as well. Once you've mastered your Legacies, we'll find them and face the Mogadorians John looks at Henri, curious.
JOHN: What Legacy do you have?
HENRI: I don't have any and never will. I'm your Cepan a teacher. My job is not just to protect you but to train you.
HENRI: Trust me. Henri flicks a flame to life and sweeps it under John's outstretched palm.
HENRI: You feel that? Amazingly, the flame harmlessly licks the skin. But when Henri moves the lighter further up John's arm
JOHN: John jerks his hand away. Henri kills the flame, shrugs.
HENRI: When we're done, your entire body will be shielded against fire. John rubs his singed wrist.
HENRI: You'll get other Legacies too.
JOHN: Flying would be cool.
HENRI: You don't get to pick them off a KNOCK. KNOCK. KNOCK. As John spins to the door, the shimmering galaxy fades and the crystal drops to the floor.
HENRI: Mogs don't knock.
HENRI: It's a girl. John looks over his shoulder and reacts with surprise.
SARAH: How'd you do it? Her accusation startles him.
JOHN: Do what?
SARAH: Eviscerate the entire senior class? She pulls a strip of overexposed 35mm film from her coat.
SARAH: I was in the darkroom before lunch and they were hanging on the line smiling and looking forward to the future. When I got back, I found 15 rolls of negatives wiped clean. John shrugs innocently.
JOHN: I don't know what you're talking So you weren't in the darkroom Here's a tip. If you're going to lie, don't leave a big red backpack at the scene of the crime. She swings his backpack into view. John is mortified. He struggles to find a plausible answer and silently tries to quell the feeling welling in his chest.
SARAH: So you weren't in the darkroom Here's a tip. If you're going to lie, don't leave a big red backpack at the scene of the crime. She swings his backpack into view. John is mortified. He struggles to find a plausible answer and silently tries to quell the feeling welling in his chest.
JOHN: Here's a tip. If you're going to lie, don't leave a big red backpack at the scene of the crime. She swings his backpack into view. John is mortified. He struggles to find a plausible answer and silently tries to quell the feeling welling in his chest.
SARAH: Here's a tip. If you're going to lie, don't leave a big red backpack at the scene of the crime. She swings his backpack into view. John is mortified. He struggles to find a plausible answer and silently tries to quell the feeling welling in his chest.
JOHN: I don't know what happened. Maybe it's a sign that you should invest in a digital camera.
SARAH: Digital sucks. Film tells the truth. Clearly, I'm not going to get that from you. He watches as she angrily heads down the steps and climbs into her car. John glances at his palms and is surprised to find they are dimly luminescent.
MARK JAYNE: is behind the wheel and watches as her headlights fade into the night. OFF his simmering jealousy.
HENRI: Everything okay?
JOHN: She was returning my backpack. He dumps it by the door.
HENRI: I think you should stay home from school for a couple of days.
JOHN: I'm fine.
HENRI: Just to be safe.
JOHN: I'm going for a run. Bernie trots out and wags his tail pleadingly.
JOHN: Sorry, buddy, you couldn't keep up.
WATCHES AS: THE EAGLE
THE EAGLE: alights in a nearby oak tree. John bends to tighten his laces, his eyes fall on the trio of scars branded on his ankle. His happiness dims.
SARAH: disappearing into a room at the end. He's torn, then makes a decision and does something he shouldn't he strides down the hall after her.
SARAH: I think you have the wrong room. She rises, walks past him and begins searching the photos scattered on the layout table in the middle of the space.
JOHN: Wanted to apologize.
SARAH: Does the apology come with an He turns to go, has his hand on the door when
SARAH: He looks back. Her face softens.
SARAH: How about we delete Monday and start over? She steps forward and extends her hand.
SARAH: I'm Sarah.
JOHN: TIGHT ON THEIR HANDS as they shake. She checks out his fingerless gloves, amused.
SARAH: Nice gloves. She crosses to the board, reaches down to lift it when John steps behind her.
JOHN: You know all these people? She nods.
SARAH: Curse of a small town. I've been around them my whole life. ( pointing to photo ) Kim Thomas. She peed in her bed at a sleepover when we were seven.
SARAH: So what's your story?
JOHN: Not very interesting.
SARAH: Determined to keep the mystery alive, aren't you? His finger arrows in on a photograph of Sarah. It's a candid and she's taking a shot with her trademark Nikon.
JOHN: You first.
SARAH: Okay. Recovering cheerleader. Wannabe vegetarian but I still love burgers. Dreams of being a I've never actually admitted that last one to anybody before.
JOHN: Your secret's safe with me. She studies him, sensing a kindred spirit.
SARAH: You ever feel you don't belong in your own life?
JOHN: Every single day.
SARAH: Wow. That almost sounded like a straight answer. They look at each other. There's a charged silence. The moment is broken when
SARAH: I thought you were on two-a-days.
MARK: Coach wants me to rest my arm before the scouts come. You didn't answer my question?
SARAH: John was helping me move some John turns to Sarah.
JOHN: I'm going to take off. Mark doesn't take his eyes off John and blocks his way.
MARK: Seriously, Sarah, what's up with this guy?
SARAH: I don't have time for this, Mark.
MARK: But you had time to go to his house the other night. Sarah looks at him, stunned by the admission.
SARAH: You were following me?
MARK: Just trying to figure out what's going on with you. Sarah's shock turns to anger.
SARAH: You've crossed so many lines I can't even speak to you right now. She hustles out of the room. Mark glares at John.
MARK: This isn't over. OFF John, unmoved by the threat.
KABBBOOOOOOM!: The house detonates. The concussive force of the blast rips the structure right off its stilts. Tornadoes of flame BLAST through the windows as the house catapults into the air. Orange reflections flicker on the Girl's visor as she flips it down, REVS the motorcycle and SCREAM-PEELS down the drive backlit by the glittering inferno.
SAM: Nice freakout the other day.
JOHN: Wasn't feeling well. They twist their combination locks. Sam swings open his door, there's a HISSING POP and
JOHN: has his door halfway open and ducks back a second before the ink pack planted in his locker ERUPTS. The spray misses his face but violently spits across his chest and arms. LAUGHTER echoes behind them. John spins and finds Mark and his posse. TIGHT ON John's hands as he balls them and an angry glow flickers through his gloves.
MARK: ( to John, taunting ) Told you it wasn't over. Behind them, Sam's laid-back persona cracks. He frantically clears his locker, looking for something. He finally pulls out a photo which drips with ink, reels at the jocks.
SAM: John looks back at Sam. Mark seizes his chance and launches a sucker-punch at John. But John sees it out of the corner of his eye and in a blur of motion whips up his hand and
JOHN: That sensation you're feeling remember it. With a quick push, John shoves Mark back against the lockers. Mark DENTS a door and slides to the floor, his eyes flaring with lacerated pride.
JOHN: Show's over. The crowd disperses. Mark gets to his feet and exits with his friends, but shoots John one final wounded glare.
SAM: I raided lost and found. He holds up a puke-green sweater decorated with red snowmen. John turns back to the sink.
SAM: I know. Nobody loses anything He sits and begins to change.
SAM: Dude, the way you thrashed Mark back there. Awesome move. John acknowledges that with a nod. Whip-dries his shirt. Sam plucks up the photo. The ink is now dried and cracked.
JOHN: Who's in the picture? Sam stares at it, nostalgic.
SAM: My dad. My real dad. I took it the summer before he split.
JOHN: ( DEADPAN )
SAM: I know. Insane. He called himself an anthropologist even though he only made it through one semester of college. He rises and tosses the ruined picture into the trash.
SAM: Always thought he'd come back one day who was I kidding. The guy's a joke. As the BELL RINGS.
SARAH: I heard about the lockers. I'm I'll live. He starts off again.
JOHN: I'll live. He starts off again.
SARAH: I broke up with Mark. He stops, slowly turns back.
SARAH: I've been thinking about doing it for a while. today just finally pushed me over the edge.
JOHN: Why are you telling me? She bows her head, suddenly embarrassed.
SARAH: I don't know.
JOHN: You made the right call. The certainty of his voice soothes her. She looks up and holds his gaze. Their attraction is undeniable.
SARAH: Halloween Block Party's tonight.
JOHN: I saw the banners.
SARAH: I'll be on Main Street hiding behind my camera if you want to swing by. He says nothing.
SARAH: I wasn't expecting an actual response. I could text you later. Do they have cell phones on Planet She holds out her phone. John looks at it tentatively, then takes it. As he inputs his number, he hears the BLARE of a car horn, looks up and sees Henri waiting in his SUV.
HENRI: Wasn't that your friend from the other night?
JOHN: Her name's Sarah.
HENRI: Principal called. Said there was an incident.
JOHN: A guy was messing with me. I took care of it. Problem solved.
HENRI: You're stronger and faster because of Earth's gravity you shouldn't use that advantage to settle petty It was no big deal. Don't blow it out of proportion.
JOHN: It was no big deal. Don't blow it out of proportion.
HENRI: You can't risk everything over wounded pride.
JOHN: I wasn't looking for a fight. It just happened. Get off my back. Henri pulls a printout from his coat. John unfolds it. ANGLE ON PRINTOUT: It's from the Florida Keynoter website and features a photo of the charred stilt house. John's gut churns as he stares at the image.
HENRI: Article says it was arson.
JOHN: We were clean. There's no way the Mogs can track us here. Henri shakes his head, shifts into gear and starts off.
HENRI: They can track us anywhere. I think it's time you saw what you're really up against.
THE BOX: is open on the floor between them. John lifts his hand and holds it over the crystals.
GRANDFATHER: ( in Loric with subtitles ) Keep moving.
FOOTSTEPS ECHO!: Young John and his grandfather scramble across the space and straight into the path of
MAGENTA LIGHT: spurts from the wound. The Soldier's body fractures like glass and DISINTEGRATES in a shower of embers as he drops to the floor. The other Mogadorian spins and trades SPARKING sword strokes with
GRANDFATHER: This is your Cepan. Go with him.
YOUNG JOHN: Your life is my life now. I will always protect you.
HENRI: Your life is my life now. I will always protect you.
GRANDFATHER: ( TO HENRI )
GRANDFATHER: They are already hunting you! Go! Henri plucks a crystal ankle-dagger from his boot, grabs young John and charges up. As the Commander breaks cover, Henri hurls the dagger.
THE COMMANDER: dives out of its path but ROARS as the blade SPARK-RIPS across his right cheek like a hot poker.
TWO PIKEN: leap out. Their reptilian bodies ripple with muscle and their oversize heads glint with raptor-like jaws. The Piken mercilessly rip into John's grandfather. Young John races to help, but Henri wrenches him back. CAMERA PUSHES IN TIGHT ON YOUNG JOHN'S FACE as he screams.
YOUNG JOHN: THE MEMORY ENDS and we.
JOHN: He drops the crystal and stumbles back. The experience has left him traumatized. Henri steps towards him, but John is too overwhelmed and runs out.
JOHN: I saw my grandfather. I saw what you did to the Mogadorians you saved my life.
HENRI: A lot of Lorics sacrificed their lives so that you could live.
JOHN: He said I must survive.
HENRI: The Elders had a plan. You weren't on that ship by chance. The nine of you were chosen for a reason. Even if only two of you live, together you'll pose a grave threat to our enemy. Consumed by bitterness, John hurls another stone.
JOHN: You saw what they did to Lorien. How can nine or six or two of us take on that army? It's hopeless. Henri knows he has to pull him out of this mournful funk.
HENRI: I never thought we'd get off Lorien alive but we did. I didn't know how we could survive on a strange planet but we have. I gave us six months before the Mogs found us it's been 10 years. Don't give up now. Henri grips John's shoulders.
HENRI: You have the potential to do great things. Even if you don't see it I do.
JOHN: How can you put so much faith in Because your life is my life. If you quit, then everything I've worked for and sacrificed is Remember nothing is inevitable. The fragile SILENCE is broken when John's cell phone BLEATS. He scans a text.
HENRI: Because your life is my life. If you quit, then everything I've worked for and sacrificed is Remember nothing is inevitable. The fragile SILENCE is broken when John's cell phone BLEATS. He scans a text.
JOHN: It's Sarah. The Block Party's tonight. I'll say I can't make it. Henri sees John is wracked with doubt and confusion.
HENRI: No. go. John looks at him, surprised by this paternal gesture.
HENRI: You've had enough for one day.
JOHN: You work here?
SAM: Not by choice. ( pointing to sign ) Ed's my stepdad. He's under the delusion that if people eat enough candy apples and kettle corn, they'll suddenly have the urge to buy sporting goods. John plucks a hockey mask from the basket on the counter.
SAM: I put those on special tonight for any wannabe Jason Voorhees. Sam pulls off his apron, revealing a T-shirt emblazoned with the words “Future Supervillain”.
SAM: Screw this. Let me lock up. I'll hang with you. He steps to the door and twists the closed sign into view.
JOHN: What about your stepdad?
SAM: He hit the tavern at 6:00. He's already hammered by now. I'll probably find him passed out on the doorstep. Every night is trick ‘r treat at my house.
SAM: She's over there. John follows Sam's gaze and finds Sarah taking shots of some KIDS dunking for apples. She pulls the camera from her eye, sees John and smiles as he approaches.
SARAH: You made it. ( re: Sam's shirt ) Like the T-shirt, Sam.
SAM: Guidance Counsellor said I need to set goals for myself. Figured I'd aim high. She looks back at John.
SARAH: What do you think of Halloween in John regards a particularly over-the-top float.
JOHN: They should pull out all the stops next year.
SARAH: Well, you haven't had the full experience until you've been on the Haunted Hayride.
SARAH: Give me a sec. She steps to the face-painting booth. It's sponsored by the local realtor who is Sarah's mom, Annie. Sarah hands Annie her camera. Sam whispers to John.
SAM: I'm impressed. Before John can respond, Sarah steps back.
SARAH: You guys ready?
SAM: Three on a wagon might get a little crowded. I'll meet you two on the other side. He gives John a not-so-subtle wink of encouragement. John and Sarah join the end of the line and watch Sam head away.
SARAH: Sam's cool.
JOHN: Definitely unique.
SARAH: I haven't really talked to him since 8th grade. Mark had a tight circle. If you weren't a jock or cheerleader, you didn't exist.
JOHN: I'm glad you broke free.
SARAH: Me too. OFF their growing connection.
SARAH: Not even a flinch. None of this scares you, does it?
JOHN: I'm trembling on the inside. He smiles.
SARAH: You can smile. I was starting to have my doubts. She takes his hand. They CLATTER past a series of grisly
GRIM REAPER: Hell's Gate, everybody off. The duo reluctantly clambers off the back and watches as the hay wagon circles back the way it came.
SARAH: Once we make it through, we're home pendulums in front of them. Sarah SCREAMS and clenches John's hand harder. A pathway of lights floods on, illuminating a skull-capped gate. The words
A SKELETON: pendulums in front of them. Sarah SCREAMS and clenches John's hand harder. A pathway of lights floods on, illuminating a skull-capped gate. The words
SARAH: That was insane.
JOHN: What was that?
SARAH: Just part of the ride. He turns, sees a flash of purple light and hears the rustle of HEAVY FOOTSTEPS on all sides.
JOHN: Are you sure? As he steps forward,
SARAH: Let go! Stop it! John tries to stand, but a boot CRACKS him in the ribs. Another strikes the side of his face. He is surrounded. His attackers are brutal and unrelenting. Over the LOOPING SOUNDTRACK OF B-MOVIE NOISES, Sarah's muffled SCREAMS DIM.
JOHN: Sarah! Sa- His voice is cut off as a fist SMASHES into his jaw and the steel cap of a combat boot SLAMS his groin. John staggers up but is viciously kicked back to the ground. PUSH IN ON JOHN'S FACE as it hardens with blind rage. In a blur of motion he reaches up, grabs two of his attackers by their coats and hammers their skulls together. As they drop, John spins to meet his other two foes with
WHAAAAM!!!: John brutally clotheslines one, then pummel-rams Kevin in the chest, sending him flying back 10 feet into a tree. Kevin slumps, out for the count. John arcs a glowing hand through the darkness.
SARAH: Let go of me! She futilely tries to wrestle free.
SAM: She doesn't answer. He hesitates a moment, then charges into the woods.
SARAH!: Sam turns in the direction of JOHN'S VOICE. He's about to head towards it when
JOHN: Where's Sarah? Tell me!!
JOCK: Shepherd Falls. Now turn off that damn flashlight! John rips off the Jock's goggles, then pile-slides him 15 feet into a rotten stump and takes off in a blur of speed. CAMERA STAYS ON SAM. OFF his stunned reaction.
SARAH: Are you crazy! Where's John? Mark nods the Zombie Jocks away.
MARK: Relax. It's a practical joke.
SARAH: I swear if you hurt him
MARK: Why do you give a shit?
SARAH: Get out of my face, Mark, you're I'm the best thing that ever happened to you and I'm giving you one more chance. Appalled by his hubris, Sarah turns to leave.
MARK: I'm the best thing that ever happened to you and I'm giving you one more chance. Appalled by his hubris, Sarah turns to leave.
MARK: Don't walk away from me! Mark grabs her. Sarah wrenches free, but loses her balance and falls back on the ground. Mark's rage is transplanted by concern. He steps towards her to help when
SARAH: John! Are you okay? He nods. Mark looks past him, confused.
MARK: Where the hell are Kevin and Joe? John holds up a clutch of night-vision goggles.
JOHN: They got spooked.
MARK: Hey, those are police property! John flings them over Mark's head into the water.
MARK: I'm going to kill you! With lightning speed, John grabs Mark's arm, spins him, pinning him to a tree. Blinded by rage, John jerks Mark's arm up behind his back.
SARAH: John! Stop! Mark is in real pain. Transfixed with anger, John keeps twisting. Sarah looks at him, pleading.
SARAH: That's his throwing arm! But he doesn't stop until she finally steps forward and slaps him across the face. Startled, John lets go.
SARAH: Football's all he's got. John stumbles back, ashamed, and heads into the woods. Sarah offers Mark a look of disgust and follows after John.
SARAH: John! Wait. Sarah catches up.
SARAH: I'm sorry, I didn't want you to break his arm.
JOHN: I'm not mad at you. I'm mad at She stops, faces him.
SARAH: I had no idea Mark would pull something like that. He has seriously gone off the deep end.
JOHN: The guy's in love with you. Wants you back.
SARAH: That's not love. Their eyes meet in the moonlight.
SARAH: Walk me home?
SARAH: This is me. John stares at the dozen jack-o'-lanterns arranged on the porch. They glare back with flickering bucktooth grins.
SARAH: I know. Wait until the Christmas decorations go up. My mom decks the halls with so many lights, you can see our house from space. Stray TRICK-OR-TREATERS race past. She motions to the cut above his eye, concerned.
SARAH: You should see a doctor.
JOHN: For this? Wouldn't waste their She looks at him, curious.
SARAH: You're not going to tell me how you took out those football players, are you?
SARAH: I really don't get you. She steps closer.
SARAH: But I feel like I can trust you.
JOHN: You can. The air is charged.
SARAH: Good night. Sarah swings open the white picket gate.
JOHN: As she turns back, John steps forward and kisses her. Although taken by surprise, Sarah quickly succumbs to his passion. However, as their kiss intensifies,
THE PUMPKINS: instantly drop and SMASH onto the porch, their candles blowing out on impact. Sarah spins and stares at the jack-o'- lanterns, pulp oozes through their cracked shells. Suspicious, she slowly turns, looks at John for an explanation. He does his best to cover his stunned reaction. Fat drops of RAIN begin to fall. John puts up his hood.
JOHN: I better go. OFF Sarah, watching him melt into the downpour.
HENRI: I heard on the police scanner that eight boys were beaten up in the woods tonight. Henri turns on a light, nursing a mug of coffee. Bernie wakes. John pulls off his hood. Henri looks at the cuts and bruises on John's face.
JOHN: They won't talk.
HENRI: That was a stupid thing to do. What were you thinking?
JOHN: They attacked me. If I hadn't defended myself, I'd be in the ER right now. Would that have been the better choice?
JOHN: I was getting to that. I got a new Henri absorbs that revelation.
HENRI: Telekinesis. That's a big step. Must have been triggered by the John doesn't correct him, averts his gaze.
HENRI: I need to teach you how to control these abilities. We'll start working on that tomorrow. The conversation is suddenly interrupted by the repetitive WHINE OF AN ALARM. They cross to the bank of computers. Henri urgently stabs commands into a keyboard.
JOHN: What is it? Henri pulls up a website.
HENRI: We got a hit on one of the search It's a paranormal blog. “They Walk Among Us!” ANGLE ON COMPUTER: A video buffers into motion. It's handheld and jerky. It WHIP-PANS over some sand and joins a group of Teens huddled over a figure lying in the surf. He's holding his ankle and light seeps between his fingers. John's chest pounds with fear as he realizes.
JOHN: That's Sand Dollar Beach.
HENRI: Looks like a cell phone camera. There's enough for the Mogs to ID your face.
JOHN: Can you take it down? Henri remains ice calm and starts typing commands.
HENRI: Working on it.
JOHN: I'm sorry, Henri.
HENRI: This isn't your fault. There's still nothing to trace us here. Henri glances up from his screen.
HENRI: This could take all night. Get some sleep.
JOHN: blur ACROSS THE FRAME of one of the surveillance camera screens and disappear into the woods.
SAM: I've narrowed it down to three possibilities: you're a genetic experiment, you're a freak of nature, or you're an I don't know what you think happened tonight. Sam steps closer, watery reflections ripple down his face.
JOHN: I don't know what you think happened tonight. Sam steps closer, watery reflections ripple down his face.
SAM: Your hands lit up like a firefly on crack, you tossed those football players around like crash test dummies, and you took off faster than an Olympic runner.
JOHN: What do you want from me?
SAM: I just want to know who you are. John looks at Sam, realizes he's not going to give up. He hesitates, then finally surrenders.
JOHN: I'm a survivor from a planet called Sam absorbs this confession with awe.
SAM: Your dad. he's from there too?
JOHN: Henri's not my dad. He's my Guardian. If he found out you knew about us, we'd be gone by morning.
SAM: I won't tell anyone. John nods, grateful.
SAM: There's something I want to show The tarp is whipped off the pickup truck. It's an old Ford. Sam and John stand before it.
SAM: The cops found it abandoned in the middle of Route 20, just south of White Sands, New Mexico. It was my dad's. He went missing six years ago. He was on one of his crazy fact-finding trips. He believed we weren't alone in the universe. Sam rubs his hand across the hood, wondering.
SAM: Mom figured he was having an affair and took off. All these years I thought she was right. Now you're That doesn't prove anything.
JOHN: That doesn't prove anything.
SAM: It proves he wasn't crazy. I'm starting to think that he didn't bail on us. that maybe something else happened out there that he was taken. The moment is broken by the SLAM of the front door and the sound of ANGRY FOOTSTEPS. Sam instantly tenses.
SAM: Guess the bar closed.
JOHN: You going to be okay?
SAM: If he finds you here, it'll be Sam crosses to the door leading into the main house and heads inside. SHOUTS erupt almost immediately. John flinches, wanting to intervene, but finally turns, hustles under the garage door and slips into the night.
JOHN: You look wiped. Henri turns and smiles playfully.
HENRI: I wasn't the only who was up last John nervously hands Henri one of the cups and lies.
JOHN: Sarah texted me. I went over to her house. Henri buys the explanation and swings back to his computers.
HENRI: I've tried every trick I know, but I can't crack that blog's firewall.
JOHN: There must be a way.
HENRI: We need to find where the site's located and take it offline manually. The URL source has been run through a labyrinth of servers, it could take weeks to track down.
JOHN: I want to help. Henri takes a gulp of coffee and stands.
HENRI: You can. Get changed.
SARAH: I don't see any family pictures around. I guess the photo aversion is hereditary. He greets the observation with a shrug. She carries on.
SARAH: Your mom. grandparents. Is there anyone else in your life?
JOHN: They died.
SARAH: I'm sorry.
JOHN: It was a long time ago. It's just me and my dad now. John uses a nail brush to clean the beagle's ears.
SARAH: I get the feeling he doesn't like me very much.
JOHN: It takes him a while to warm up to Sarah considers this.
SARAH: Thanksgiving's tomorrow. Why don't you bring your dad and celebrate with us?
JOHN: I don't know. Are there going to be a lot of people?
SARAH: A tsunami of relatives. But don't worry, I'll shield you from the wave. Besides, I want everyone to meet you. She playfully splashes him. Their faces inch closer. They begin making out hot and heavy until Henri suddenly walks in.
HENRI: I've found the Caught in the act, the teens lurch away from each other.
JOHN: Just giving Bernie a quick bath.
HENRI: You're clearly putting a lot of effort into it.
SARAH: I better hit the road.
HENRI: I finally tracked the location of that blog. It's a house in Warsaw, Indiana. About four hours from here. I'm heading up there Sarah invited us to Thanksgiving. I told her we'd be there.
JOHN: Sarah invited us to Thanksgiving. I told her we'd be there.
HENRI: Send my regrets.
JOHN: You shouldn't go alone. It could be dangerous.
HENRI: I won't risk taking you. I'll leave early and be back by five. John looks up and sees Henri sitting in solitude.
JOHN: Don't you ever get lonely? Surprised by the question, Henri swivels to face him.
HENRI: How could I? I have you.
JOHN: You know what I mean. All these years, there's never been anyone.
HENRI: We aren't like humans. Once we fall in love, it's for life. The pain of separation is unbearable. Henri's face clouds with melancholy and he abruptly gets up. As he heads into the kitchen John studies him with new eyes.
JOHN: What was her name? Henri slots a plate onto the draining board.
HENRI: You left her to save me.
JOHN: You left her to save me.
HENRI: You're not responsible for what happened to her they are. He slowly turns and regards John with deep paternal concern.
HENRI: I looked at her the way you look at She can't come with us when we leave and we always have to leave, you know that. John nods, not wanting to deal with that reality.
HENRI: I was hoping to protect you from that pain.
JOHN: You can't protect me from OFF Henri's sad smile of acknowledgement.
SARAH: Come on, we're on gravy-boat duty.
SARAH: You look dazed.
JOHN: Just taking it all in. She crosses.
SARAH: I'm glad you came. They tenderly kiss until Annie bustles in carrying a steaming bowl of mashed potatoes.
ANNIE: Don't mind me. She puts the bowl on the table and grabs Sarah's camera.
ANNIE: Let's get a picture of you two Sarah cringes as Annie lifts the camera to her eye.
SARAH: Mom. No. John really doesn't like having his
JOHN: It's okay. Let her take it. The gesture means the world to Sarah. He puts his arm around her. Sarah nestles her face against his. As the flash WIPES
JOHN: I need to check in with Henri. He exits.
JOHN: ( INTO PHONE )
JOHN: ( INTO PHONE ) ( OVER PHONE )
JOHN: ( INTO PHONE )
JOHN: ( INTO PHONE )
SARAH: I'll see what's taking him so long.
SARAH: He looks back.
JOHN: It's Henri. I have to go. Sorry. OFF her confused disappointment as the truck SQUEALS away.
JOHN: Thanks. I owe you.
SAM: Anything to get out of Thanksgiving at my house. He offers John a weary smile.
SAM: I checked out that blog on the way over. Saw the video. What was the deal with your ankle? John pulls up his khakis, shows Sam the trio of scars.
JOHN: Death scars.
SAM: They kind of look like the symbols in my dad's research.
JOHN: Abduct people? No. Irritated, he covers them back up.
SAM: How about the ones you said were hunting you?
JOHN: They're capable of anything.
JOHN: Number 417. Henri tracked the URL to that house. Sam scans the street.
SAM: I don't see his SUV anywhere.
JOHN: He would have parked it across Sam opens the glove compartment and pulls out a revolver.
SAM: Stole it from Ed.
JOHN: I called you because I needed a ride, not a sidekick. If I could have run here, I would have.
STEPS TO: THE KITCHEN PORCH. He squats in front of the door. He holds up a luminescent palm and uses it like a flashlight to sweep the interior. WHAT HE SEES: Take-out boxes litter the filthy counter. The sink is swamped with dirty dishes. The light washes across a semiautomatic sitting by a packet of Lucky Strikes.
JOHN: I told you to go!
SAM: They might know where my dad is! John realizes Sam is determined. He sweeps his hand back over the kitchen door. His palm illuminates a familiar
JOHN: Henri's here. John “turns off” his palm and reaches for the door handle. Sam anxiously swats his arm away.
SAM: Wait! Other than strength, speed and night-light, what powers have you got?
JOHN: Telekinesis but that's a work in No invisibility, X-ray vision, Sam, we drove here. Sam takes a deep breath, psyching himself up.
SAM: No invisibility, X-ray vision, Sam, we drove here. Sam takes a deep breath, psyching himself up.
JOHN: Sam, we drove here. Sam takes a deep breath, psyching himself up.
SAM: Okay. I'm ready. Let's do it. But as John reaches for the door handle, the kitchen light suddenly turns on and a MAN enters. He's built like a wrestler and goes by the name of FRANK.
SAM: Hurry up. Hurry up. Hurry up. There's a LOUD CLICK.
SAM: You just dead bolted it! Way to New plan follow Lucky Strike. Text me if he comes back. Sam sneaks off after Frank.
JOHN: New plan follow Lucky Strike. Text me if he comes back. Sam sneaks off after Frank.
JOHN: He races over. But as he reaches for Henri's gag, a YOUNG MAN steps out of the shadows holding a baseball bat. John turns too late and the bat strikes his left side. He drops the dagger as he falls to the floor, his ribs searing. The man, BRET, raises the bat again. John focuses his mind.
THE BAT: whips out of Bret's grip and torpedoes towards John who ducks out of the way as the bat flies past. Confused, Bret lurches forward. John scrambles for the bat, clenches it in his hand, and swings it into the young man's legs.
BRET: knocks the light as he topples into a column and CRASHES onto the cement, out cold. It's over in a violent blur. John sits stunned for a moment. The swinging bulb casts surreal shadows as he spins back to Henri, telekinetically “unlocks” the padlock securing the chains, and rips off the gag. Henri is groggy and his face is swollen from brutal beatings.
HENRI: You shouldn't be here.
JOHN: Your life is my life, remember? Henri tries to shake his drug-induced haze.
HENRI: I talked my way in. Thought the big guy was buying it. He rubs a wound on his neck.
HENRI: I was asking him about the video when the other one shot me from behind. some sort of animal I'm getting rusty. Suddenly, John's phone VIBRATES. It's a message from Sam
JOHN: We have to leave! John helps Henri up, they race for the stairs when Bret's hand grabs John's ankle, tripping him to the floor.
JOHN: Henri smashes his boot into Bret's face, knocking him out for good. John staggers up, they spin for the stairs just as
FRANK: Stay planted or I'll blow your friend's head off. Henri looks at John in shock.
JOHN: ( RE: SAM )
THE KEYS: to the pickup fly out of Sam's pocket and slide under the stairs. John flashes on his palm, casting everything in eerie blue light. On all fours, Frank scrambles for the fallen weapon. It's almost within reach when he is lifted right off the ground by an invisible force.
FRANK: ( FREAKING OUT )
JOHN: Tell me what you know! Franks says nothing. John trains his palm light on the big man's face. It's like a blinding interrogation lamp.
JOHN: Start talking!
FRANK: I don't know what they're called. The one in the red coat said he'd kill me if I didn't do what he This revelation stuns Henri.
HENRI: The Mogadorians. they've been Frank nods in terror.
FRANK: He told me to call if anyone came asking about the video. Sweat beads John's face from the mental exertion.
JOHN: Did you?
FRANK: ( RE: HENRI )
HENRI: We need to go! Now! John “releases” Frank, who drops onto the floor like a whale and is knocked out. At that moment, a razor-thin line of dust drops from the floorboards above.
JOHN: Sam, get us out of here! Sam reaches into his jeans, then frantically checks his I must have dropped the keys! Henri keeps his cool, looks at John.
SAM: I must have dropped the keys! Henri keeps his cool, looks at John.
HENRI: Start the engine.
JOHN: I can't. Henri's calm eyes never leave him.
HENRI: Yes, you can. John nods, puts his hand on the dash and closes his eyes. The engine TURNS OVER but doesn't start. Sam looks up the street, panicked, as
A MOGADORIAN: climbs out of a black SUV and storms towards them.
SAM: Hurry up! John's brow is furrowed with concentration. The Mog unsheathes his sword as he runs. With a superhuman leap, he lands on the hood TWAAAAACK! John and Henri spin out of the way as the sword SHATTERS the windshield and impales in the back of the seat, missing them by a mouse hair. As the Mogadorian withdraws the sword to strike again, Henri sweeps up his dagger and stakes it into the Mog's neck.
VRRRROOMMM!: The engine ROARS to life. The Mogadorian tumbles off the hood, magenta light spurting from his wound. John turns to Sam, who is petrified, and SCREAMS.
JOHN: Sam wrenches the shaft into gear and floors the gas. The Mogadorian EVISCERATES in a frenzy of embers. The truck bursts through the blizzard of sparks and STREAK-PEELS away.
DRIVE!: Sam wrenches the shaft into gear and floors the gas. The Mogadorian EVISCERATES in a frenzy of embers. The truck bursts through the blizzard of sparks and STREAK-PEELS away.
FRANK: I called you like I said. It's not my fault they got away! The Commander steps into the moonlight that seeps through the window. We get our first good look at his face. A gnarled scar runs down his right cheek, identifying him as the same Mogadorian Henri wounded in the escape from Lorien. His skin is deathly pale and his eyes have a cold purple tint.
MOGADORIAN COMMANDER: Where did they go?
FRANK: How should I know? The kid had me pinned to the ceiling. The Commander turns to Bret.
MOGADORIAN COMMANDER: Where did they go? Bret is too freaked to even speak. The Commander nods to the Soldiers. They grab Frank and Bret by the heads and yank open their mouths. Frank watches in confused terror as the Commander holds one of the meditation balls.
JOHN: We'll meet you back at the house.
HENRI: We're not going back to Paradise.
SAM: Is he serious? John nods, numb.
SAM: What am I supposed to tell people?
JOHN: Nothing. Forget about us. We never existed.
HENRI: We leave at nightfall.
JOHN: Henri, this is insane. They still don't know where we live. Henri seethes.
HENRI: It's only a matter of time. They know our faces. They saw Sam. How long has he known?
JOHN: Since Halloween. Henri is floored and hurt by the admission.
HENRI: I trusted you and you lied to me! John bows his head, can't meet Henri's gaze.
JOHN: Only because I knew how you'd react and I didn't want to leave Henri paces, tries to quell his emotions.
HENRI: Now we don't have a choice. The Mogs are using humans to trap us. From this point on no more towns. No more schools. We're going off the grid until we find the others.
JOHN: His tone is defiant.
HENRI: This isn't a discussion. In a flash of pent-up anger, John holds up his hand and telekinetically sweeps Henri off his feet and pins him against the wall. Henri looks at him, stunned.
JOHN: I'm not leaving without saying goodbye to Sarah. Henri fixes him with a steel-edged stare.
HENRI: Let. Me. Down. Spent, John releases Henri who slides to the floor, shaken. The dynamics of their relationship forever changed. Henri finally stands.
HENRI: Give me your phone and IDs. John hands him his cell phone and wallet. Henri opens the back of the phone and pulls out the SIM card. SNAP!
HENRI: John Smith dies today.
UNIFORM COP: The Chief wants to send the morgue boys in and seal this tomb.
PHOTOGRAPHER: Hope they haven't had lunch yet. These guys were gutted from the inside out. He steps over to Frank's body which has been splayed open. As he flashes off some shots, the
TEEN GIRL: appears in the corner of his viewfinder. She's kneeling by Frank's severed head which has rolled a short distance from the body. The Photographer pulls the camera away from his eye and looks at the Teen Girl, confused.
PHOTOGRAPHER: Who the hell are you? She ignores him. He glances at the only window which is 20 feet away on the other side of the room.
PHOTOGRAPHER: How'd you get in? The Girl continues examining Frank's wounds. Totally unnerved, the Photographer shouts up the stairs.
PHOTOGRAPHER: Hey, we've got a live one down When he spins back, the Girl is gone, vanished into thin air.
SARAH: Where is he, Sam?
SAM: I don't know. He tries to avoid eye contact, but she is determined.
SARAH: What happened last night? I've tried calling him all day. But his number's no longer in service.
SAM: Forget about him, Sarah. Incredulous, she grabs his arm.
SARAH: I'm not going anywhere until you tell me what's going on.
SAM: He left with Henri and he isn't coming back. Ever.
HENRI: No answer. He KNOCKS. Still nothing.
ANNIE: Little late for dessert.
JOHN: I need to talk to Sarah.
ANNIE: She's not here. Some friends dragged her to a party at Mark John absorbs this news, turns. Annie steps out after him.
ANNIE: I don't usually pry into my daughter's love life, I certainly didn't want my mother in mine but Sarah's my youngest and she's special to me.
JOHN: She's special to me too.
MARK: You weren't invited.
JOHN: Where's Sarah?
MARK: She doesn't want to see you. John shoves him aside and heads for the sweeping stairs.
JOCK: Everybody upstairs! Kevin's going for the beer bong record! The Teens immediately bolt for the stairs. In the giddy exodus, one of them accidentally brushes
A CANDLE: onto the white shag rug.
SARAH: She leaps up and hugs him. John waits as Emily exits.
JOHN: I'm sorry about last night. She pulls away, her relief turning to anger.
SARAH: No. Not good enough. Sam said you were never coming back. What are you doing here?
JOHN: I couldn't leave without seeing you one last time. She looks at him, crushed.
SARAH: So it's true. What's going on? What kind of trouble are you and your dad in?
JOHN: We're going to be fine.
SARAH: Damnit! Whatever it is, I'll understand just tell me the The truth is I'm not who you think I am. You need to forget about me. Why are you acting like this?
JOHN: The truth is I'm not who you think I am. You need to forget about me. Why are you acting like this?
SARAH: Why are you acting like this?
JOHN: Because it's the only way to keep you safe.
SARAH: Safe from what? He turns away, shields her from his torment.
JOHN: Goodbye, Sarah. He doesn't look back as he walks out the door. CAMERA STAYS ON SARAH as she sinks onto the bed and the dogs comfort her.
TEENS: Drink! Drink! Drink! Drained and numb, John heads the other way and fails to notice the smoke seeping from under the basement door.
SMOKE: billowing from the side of the house. He bolts towards the front door, SCREAMS at a JOCK as he passes.
JOHN: Call 911! As he races inside.
JOHN: EXT. BACK YARD - MARK'S HOUSE - NIGHT The panicked evacuation spills out. A window EXPLODES and orange flames lick the cold night air. John sees Emily stumble out clutching one of Mark's dogs, Abby.
JOHN: Where's Sarah?
EMILY: Went back for Dozer. Another EXPLOSION rocks. A COUPLE of drunk Jocks CHEER. John looks back at the house. The fire has taken hold with incredible speed. The living room curtains are ABLAZE.
MARK: It's too late. You can't get John ignores him and runs into the inferno.
THE STAIRCASE: is fully engulfed. Fearless, he clambers up the flaming steps. His jeans and shirt catch fire. He's almost reached the top when the staircase BREAKS AWAY behind him and DISINTEGRATES in a cloud of embers.
CRAAAACK!: The door rips off its hinges. Through the smoky half-light, Sarah watches as John strides into the room, heroically backlit by flame.
SARAH: ( FRANTIC )
JOHN: Don't let go of him. I promise I won't let go of you.
JOHN: You okay? She stares at him, unsure.
SARAH: You walked through that fire without getting burned. I saw you stop that beam. SIRENS wail in the distance.
JOHN: I'll explain everything. but not ( offering his hand ) Sarah. please? As they take off into the woods, the IMAGE FREEZES, then REWINDS. John and Sarah kneel in the shadows, then FLY BACKWARDS up through the window and INTO the burning house. REVERSE TO REVEAL the Red-Haired Teen watching playback on his FlipVideo camera, amazed. He runs to the back of the house and finds Mark.
JOHN: Please don't look at me like that.
SARAH: I'm sorry. I'm still trying to process everything I saw and I keep coming to the same conclusion what you did isn't possible.
JOHN: It is for me.
SARAH: Who are you? ( off his hesitation ) For once please tell me the truth. It's the hardest thing he's ever had to do.
JOHN: My name isn't John. I don't have a name, just a number. 4. In fact, my whole life can be reduced to numbers: like 15 million that's how many light years it takes to get from my planet to Earth. 38 that's how many towns I've lived in. Or 3,671 that's how many days I've been running from an enemy that wants me dead. I lied to you, Sarah, because I lie to everyone. That's how I stay alive. Tears of relief brim as he finally reveals his soul.
JOHN: I shouldn't be telling you any of this. It's dangerous. Emotionally spent, John leans against a tree. She steps towards him and brushes her hand down his cheek.
SARAH: I don't care. I just want to be with you.
JOHN: I want that too. But if I stay you could get hurt. I have to leave to keep you safe. Sarah absorbs the bitter reality, reaches for his hand.
SARAH: There's something I want to give you first.
SARAH: So you'll always remember me. With exquisite tenderness they kiss. John's palms shimmer. The intensity of the luminescence builds with their rising passion. They sink to the floor and the light crescendos in an ethereal flash that BLEACHES OUT THE FRAME.
DEPUTY: The FBI showed up flashing their badges. Wanna talk to you. As he points to a black SUV that's parked down the street.
MARK: Where are we going? Is this about the fire? It was an accident.
MOGADORIAN COMMANDER: We're hunting for one of the guests at your party. He holds up a netbook which flashes with the FlipVideo footage of John's rescue of Sarah. It's posted on YouTube.
MOGADORIAN COMMANDER: Do you know this boy?
MARK: Yeah, John Smith. But I didn't invite him.
MOGADORIAN COMMANDER: He's a fugitive. We've been tracking him for some time. Mark smirks, vindicated.
MARK: I'll help you find him. He points to Sarah's image on the screen.
MARK: He's not at Sarah's, I already checked. And one of my dad's deputies drove by his house He poses a great threat to us. Where else could he be? Mark pulls out his cell phone.
MOGADORIAN COMMANDER: He poses a great threat to us. Where else could he be? Mark pulls out his cell phone.
MARK: I've got Sarah's cell number, maybe you guys can trace it? The Commander takes the phone and passes it to one of his men in the front. He looks back at Mark.
MOGADORIAN COMMANDER: Tell me everything you know about John Smith.
HENRI: John's not at the house. Is he No, but he's all over the internet.
SAM: No, but he's all over the internet.
HENRI: I know. He turns back to his SUV. Sam follows.
SAM: Those things from Warsaw they're coming, aren't they?
HENRI: Go back inside. This isn't your The hell it isn't. I'm coming with OFF this declaration.
SAM: The hell it isn't. I'm coming with OFF this declaration.
SARAH: ( INTO PHONE )
SARAH: It's Henri.
HENRI: ( INTO PHONE )
JOHN: High school.
HENRI: Get out now! At that moment, all the POWER in the school DIES and the headlights of an SUV flash across the window. Fear registers in John's eyes as he realizes.
JOHN: Too late. they're here.
MARK: What the hell's in there? He looks back at the Commander who is arming up from the trunk of the SUV. Mark glimpses the arsenal of future-tech machine pistols, double-bladed swords and heavy-duty daggers. He backs away in fearful realization.
MARK: You guys aren't FBI. Before he can run, a Mogadorian Soldier grabs him by the neck and constrains him. The Commander pulls
TWO BANDOLIERS: over his broad shoulders. The cartridges are made of crystal and swirl with purple light. Finally, he slips on his trademark red coat and spins towards the school.
A FIGURE: struts into view. We RECOGNIZE her as the mysterious Teen Girl. She swings up an awesome hand-cannon and FIRES right at them. THE BLAST scorches the air between John and Sarah but takes out the
MOGADORIAN SOLDIER: who was stalking up the hall behind them! John watches in shock as the Mogadorian keels over and SHATTERS into embers. John swings back to the Teen Girl as she strides forward.
SIX: You oughta keep your heroics off the internet.
JOHN: Who the hell are you?
SIX: Number 6. Where's your Cepan?
JOHN: On his way. Where's yours?
SIX: Dead. The Mogs got her four months ago. We had been tracking them. She heads past. John and Sarah follow after her.
JOHN: Tracking them?
SIX: We discovered they plan to attack Earth. The only thing standing in their way is the six of us. The revelation hits John like a wrecking ball.
SIX: You know what that means? John nods with new purpose.
JOHN: The war starts tonight.
SIX: First we have to get out of here alive and find the others. Six leads them past the impressive trophy case.
JOHN: What are we up against?
SIX: There's a commander, a bunch of soldiers and two Piken. They'll have all the main entrances The gym, there's a tunnel under the It'll take us out to the stadium. Six acknowledges that info with a curt nod. FOOTSTEPS. Six grabs John and Sarah by their arms and yanks them back against the wall. They hold their breath as one of the Mogadorian Soldiers prowls straight past. He stops for a moment, then turns the corner. Sarah looks across at the mirrored trophy case and sees there's no reflection.
SARAH: The gym, there's a tunnel under the It'll take us out to the stadium. Six acknowledges that info with a curt nod. FOOTSTEPS. Six grabs John and Sarah by their arms and yanks them back against the wall. They hold their breath as one of the Mogadorian Soldiers prowls straight past. He stops for a moment, then turns the corner. Sarah looks across at the mirrored trophy case and sees there's no reflection.
JOHN: It'll take us out to the stadium. Six acknowledges that info with a curt nod. FOOTSTEPS. Six grabs John and Sarah by their arms and yanks them back against the wall. They hold their breath as one of the Mogadorian Soldiers prowls straight past. He stops for a moment, then turns the corner. Sarah looks across at the mirrored trophy case and sees there's no reflection.
SARAH: We're invisible. John realizes, turns to Six.
JOHN: You got any other Legacies?
SIX: I can control the elements. You?
JOHN: Lumen and telekinesis. More FOOTSTEPS. John turns and watches in horror as the Mogadorian Commander and a trio of Mogadorian Soldiers sweeps into view. The Commander is holding
SIX: Stay put. They want to draw you He's not dying because of me!
JOHN: He's not dying because of me!
SIX: ( TO JOHN )
SARAH: What are you doing with them?
MARK: They said they were FBI. That John was a fugitive. What the hell's going on?
SIX: You've stumbled into a war. So shut up and keep your head down.
HENRI: I see age hasn't mellowed your attitude, 6. Mark turns to John, guilt-wracked.
MARK: I didn't know they were trying to kill you. ( genuine, to John ) I'm sorry.
JOHN: This isn't your fault it's mine. He offers Mark his hand. Mark shakes it. Suddenly, Bernie begins to GROWL.
SAM: What is it, boy? Henri sees where Bernie is staring and realizes.
HENRI: He's telling us to run! They take off a second before
A PIKEN: PUMMEL-RAMS through the wall in a shower of bricks, books and paper. It utters a glass-shattering ROAR. John looks back and sees Bernie bravely holding his ground.
JOHN: He watches as the beagle sprints forward and launches himself at the monster. Bernie clamps onto the Piken's neck. He's hopelessly outmatched and holds on for dear life as the Piken tries to buck him off. Then something amazing happens
HENRI: Bernie's a Chimera. He came with us from Lorien.
JOHN: Guess I wasn't the only one keeping Somebody had to watch you when I wasn't around. They exit while Bernie and the Piken continue to battle.
HENRI: Somebody had to watch you when I wasn't around. They exit while Bernie and the Piken continue to battle.
SARAH: The gym's this way. A projectile HISSES past John's ear and DETONATES a row of lockers BOOOOOM! it's like an incendiary grenade. The paint blisters off the lockers as they are consumed by FIRE.
JOHN: sees two Mogadorian Soldiers hauling heavy-duty weapons that use the glass cartridges that glow on their ammo belts. One FIRES another round. John telekinetically RIPS a door off its hinges. It flies forward, blocks the charge and IGNITES. John spins back and SCREAMS
JOHN: Go! Go! Go! They take off. John follows and uses his telekinesis to fling cabinets, doors, benches anything he can to block the fiery onslaught. But the rounds are coming too fast and a projectile SMACKS him in the back. It's like being hit by napalm. As FLAMES wash across him, he looks up and snaps on
SIX: Keep moving! Henri, Mark, Sarah and Sam race out of view. Then John sees something emerge through the smoky, water-choked haze.
ICE!: In a matter of moments, the hall has been transformed into an icy tunnel. The sprinklers spray snow. The Piken struggles to find purchase in this new frozen environment and slip- slides after John and Six, who disappear into.
SARAH: Where's John?
HENRI: Right behind us. He offers her his hand. She's about to take it when
ERUPTS!: Bernie and the first Piken crash into the hall. They are still at each other's throats and don't even notice as they steam-roller over the Mogadorian, squashing him like a bug. The creatures SMASH through the opposite wall and out of sight. It's over in a violent blink.
SIX: They've blocked it. Use your We're not leaving without my Don't you mean the girl? John ignores the jibe and turns back. Six grabs his arm.
JOHN: We're not leaving without my Don't you mean the girl? John ignores the jibe and turns back. Six grabs his arm.
SIX: Don't you mean the girl? John ignores the jibe and turns back. Six grabs his arm.
SIX: I broke the Elders' spell to find you. The Mogs can kill me now. We have to go.
JOHN: We stay and fight. OFF his determination.
HENRI: You know how to use one of these?
MARK: My dad's the sheriff. He slides two across the floor. The door opens. They swing up to fire but find John and Six.
JOHN: Save it for the Mogs. Let's go!
THE PIKEN: desperately thrashes. Its talons viciously rip into Bernie's side. Ignoring the pain, Bernie doesn't let go until his foe finally jerks to stillness. As Bernie sinks to the floor, he MORPHS back into a beagle and lies spent and bleeding.
JOHN: The door's over here. The tunnel leads out to the stadium. Sarah sweeps back the curtain, revealing a padlocked set of metal doors. John holds up his hand, snaps the lock and whips the chain free. The doors fly open,
TWO MOGADORIANS: spring out of the dark. One tackles Henri while the other blindsides John. Henri struggles until
BOOOOOM!: The BLAST cinders the Mog's head clean off. Henri looks over and sees Mark holding a smoking shotgun and nods his thanks. The second has John pinned when it suddenly ROARS in agony and disintegrates into a shower of sparks, revealing
SIX: Saving your life. My new hobby. Sarah notices a smile of respect flicker between John and Six. PHHHHHHT! PHHHHHHT! PHHHHHHT! three Mogadorian knives razor the air. One impales Six in the shoulder. She slumps at John's feet. Henri opens FIRE on the
JOHN: ( RE: SIX )
A MOGADORIAN: lurches into the mouth of the tunnel. Without a second's hesitation, Sam swings up his gun and BLASTS it. Mark looks at him in shock as they race through the embers. Sam shrugs.
SAM: I play a lot of Xbox.
JOHN: Don't stop! Get to the woods! She nods and exits with the others. John and Henri head onto the field after them when
HENRI: nobly shoves John out of the way and is plucked into the Piken's jaws. The creature shakes him like a rag doll and flings him 50 feet down the field. John watches, anguished, as Henri lands in a heap.
JOHN: The Piken pivots, turns its crimson eyes on John. It almost seems to smirk. Its fangs are stained with Henri's blood. John's face hardens into a mask of rage.
JOHN: Henri GROANS as John cradles his head. His coat is soaked with blood and his torso is horribly mauled. John tries to drag him to his feet.
JOHN: Come on, taillights in five.
HENRI: I won't be coming with you this time. Save yourself.
JOHN: We go together! Henri smiles, grateful, but at that moment
HENRI: Find the others. His voice is a GRAVELLED WHISPER.
HENRI: Your life is my life. always. His eyes flutter closed and he slips from John's grip. Anguished, John doesn't notice his pendant momentarily flicker with a radiant blue light. He angrily spins to face
MOGADORIAN COMMANDER: Number 4. Three Loric pendants dangle from the Commander's belt like mocking trophies.
MOGADORIAN COMMANDER: Your Cepan saved you on Lorien. The Commander's voice hisses with cruel certainty. He wrenches his sword from Henri's corpse.
MOGADORIAN COMMANDER: But this moment was inevitable. The blade shimmers with silver flame as he raises it. John's eyes narrow as the sword sweeps towards him. This is the moment his adolescence officially ends. This is the moment when a warrior is born. ANGLE ON BLADE as it SHATTERS into a million pieces, which flutter to the ground like glittering confetti. John stares at the alien with calm confidence.
JOHN: Nothing is inevitable.
SARAH: Oh my God. John. Before anyone can stop her, she takes off running, sprinting for the stadium.
SARAH: She charges across the broiled expanse, hoping against hope. Then she sees John, lying motionless and naked, his clothes completely burned away. She stops, puts her hand to her mouth to stifle a sob, when he COUGHS and stirs.
SARAH: Ash swirls like snow as she races to his side. They wrap each other in their arms. Neither wanting to ever let go.
SARAH: Sorry, Girl Scout first aid didn't cover extraterrestrial dagger Six smiles, grateful.
SIX: As the two teens size each other up, CAMERA FINDS Mark. He hangs up his cell and crosses to John and Sam, who are talking intently by the motorcycles. John is now wearing a pair of old jeans and a faded denim jacket.
MARK: The Sheriff's Department is starting to put up roadblocks. You guys better get moving. Six and Sarah join them.
JOHN: You good to go?
SIX: Don't worry about me. John nods to Sam.
JOHN: Sam, ride with Six.
SIX: We don't need baggage. Sam steps in front of her, determined.
SAM: I have to find out if the Mogs took my dad. Six turns to John, who is not bending, then glares at Sam.
SIX: You slow us down, I'll shoot you Sarah looks at John, tries to rein in her emotions.
SARAH: I want to come too.
JOHN: You need to stay here.
SARAH: You could have died last night. I'm not putting you in danger again. Mark's promised to look after you.
JOHN: You could have died last night. I'm not putting you in danger again. Mark's promised to look after you.
SARAH: I don't want to say goodbye.
JOHN: I'll come back for you.
SARAH: When it's safe. She bows her head, anguished. He gently lifts her chin.
JOHN: When it's safe. She bows her head, anguished. He gently lifts her chin.
JOHN: Where I'm from, we only give our heart to one person. I've given mine to you.
BERNIE KOSAR: limps into view. Blood mats his fur and his face is scratched but he's alive. OFF John's relief.
THE END: Writers : Alfred Gough Miles Millar
