A PRIEST: enters the adjacent booth barely visible through the WICKER MESH. Julie looks down, crosses herself, and begins.
JULIE: Bless me, Father, for I have sinned. It's been a year since my last Julie swallows hard. This is difficult for her. I've never told anyone this. Not my mom, not the poice, not even my friends except for the ones who were there and they.well they're not around anymore. You see I.I.
PRIEST: I killed a man. Well, I thought I She balks at the memory of it. The priest bows his head in the shadows of the other side. You've got to understand.It was all an accident. A terrible accident. It's been a whole year. I've tried to get past this, but I just can't.
JULIE: I killed a man. Well, I thought I She balks at the memory of it. The priest bows his head in the shadows of the other side. You've got to understand.It was all an accident. A terrible accident. It's been a whole year. I've tried to get past this, but I just can't.
PRIEST: Go on.
JULIE: I have these dreams.horrible dreams. And this man is always there with me.
PRIEST: ( reassuring ) I know.
JULIE: You see, he was a killer. He murdered Helen and Barry, and he would have killed me too, if I hadn't.gotten away with it. I don't know, I guess I just need to deal with the fear, the guilt.to finally say his name. Ben Willis. His name was Ben Willis. The confession is cathartic for Julie. She looks relieved until,
PRIEST: I know. Julie stops. Looks through the screen. A chill shoots through her You know? But how could you. Clouds of icy steam shoot through the partition. Julie moves closer to the screen, trying to get a better look.
JULIE: You know? But how could you. Clouds of icy steam shoot through the partition. Julie moves closer to the screen, trying to get a better look.
PRIEST: ( growls )
PROFESSOR: Nice to see you find Political Science so stimulating The lecture hall erupts with laughter.
JULIE: I'm sorry Julie grabs her stuff and bolts.
WILL: Julie! Wait! You okay?
JULIE: I'm fine.
WILL: You sure?
JULIE: I'm fine.
WILL: You don't seem fine. Julie realizes this is true.
JULIE: I had another dream, Will. Will takes this seriously.
WILL: The shower again?
JULIE: It was in a church.it was so real. I mean, I could feel his breath on me.
WILL: ( caring ) I'm sorry.
JULIE: I thought I was over the dreams for good. I really did. I hadn't had one for months.
WILL: It just takes time, Julie. It's gonna get better.
JULIE: It can't get worse. I mean, it's not like this was the first time I freaked out in class. I hardly ever get a full night's sleep, my grades suck, I'm this close from being thrown out of school. BLAM! BLAM! BLAM! EXPLOSIONS. Julie jumps out of her skin. It's just STUDENTS letting off FIRECRACKERS as they fly past on bicycles. Will and Julie are now thinking the same thing.
JULIE: ( cont'd ) It was one year ago.
WILL: It's.the anniversary. That's what's going on.Take it easy on yourself.
JULIE: ( weary ) I'm trying. I really am.Sometimes I don't even know why I came up here in the first place.
WILL: ( cheering her up ) To get out of Southport?
JULIE: ( softens ) Right. Now I remember. He smiles at her. She smiles back. They stop in front of her apartment Are you getting out of town on the Nah. I'll probably just be here studying for finals. The joys of summer school. ( beat ) Are you okay?
WILL: Nah. I'll probably just be here studying for finals. The joys of summer school. Are you okay?
JULIE: I'm okay.
WILL: Are you sure? She touches his face affectionately.
JULIE: Thanks for the talk, Will. You're good to me. Will stands there akwardly
WILL: Um.Okay. Bye. Will walks away. Julie watches him a beat, then turns down her walk
RAY: steps out of the shadows. Julie practically faints.
JULIE: Oh, my god, Ray. You scared me. Recovering, she hugs Ray, genuinely glad to see him. He's a bit cold.
RAY: I got in early. I was excited. Who was that guy?
JULIE: Oh, that's Will. He's a friend. You'd like him.
RAY: Ray, we're just friend.
JULIE: Ray, we're just friend.
RAY: Every guy in history who tried to pick up a girl did the good-friend thing first.
JULIE: Why are you being like this? It should be obvious Ray feels insecure in the college environs, but they're miscommunicating.
RAY: Hey, I'm sorry. You're right. Are you ready to go? I've got the old truck. You know the drill.Crab boil at Ollie's. Croaker Queen Pageant.It's only small-town fun, but it's still nice. People really miss you. I miss you. She looks at Ray, his compassionate demeanor. This is hard to say
JULIE: ( softly, but resolved ) Ray, I can't.
RAY: Can't what?
JULIE: I just feel like some part of me hasn't healed up enough to go back. Like some critical piece is missing. Please understand. Ray is cold. This is what he's expected all along.
RAY: I understand something.
JULIE: It's not like that. It's not you. It's me. My head. I want to go back. I want to be with you. I want to be fine. I want everything to be like it used to be. It just isn't. Ray is hurt and confused. Hey, why don't you stay up here? They have fireworks over the river. And.there's a million things to do.
RAY: I have to work, Julie. My boat's in Southport, remember? But, I get it. You need your space from Craokerland. And maybe from me, too. Ray starts walking away. You know where to find me.
JULIE: Ray? Ray? At least come up for a Ray keeps on walking.
RAY: It's okay. I'm just gonna go. Julie follows him out to the road. A group of LAUGHING STUDENTS block her way.
JULIE: Ray, I'm sorry. I didn't mean. I'm just scared.that's all. But Ray is already gone. Julie stares after him a beat, then turns quickly to her door. She clearly feels uncomfortable, exposed on the walk alone. She nervously pulls her keys. A can of mace dangles from the keychain.
JULIE: ( whispers ) Okay. Okay. Face your fears. She gets off the bed and stands still. ( whisper ) There's nothing. There's another NOISE down the hall. ( whisper ) Julie silently scoots out of her bedroom toward the kitchen.
KARLA: I thought you were out of town!
JULIE: What are you doing in my closet? They hug, jumping up and down with relief.
KARLA: I thought you were out of town!
JULIE: What are you doing in my closet?
KARLA: i just wanted your black pants, but I'm not ready to die for them! Julie turns on the light in the hallway. Karla has her shoes in her hand and black pants draped over her arm.
JULIE: That was heart attack time, Karla.
KARLA: No. When I put these skinny pants on my body.Now, that's heart attack Karla looks down and sees the knife. She picks it up with two And we're going to put away the utensils and you're coming with me. Julie flops down on her bed.
JULIE: I'm not going anywhere. I'm fat, ugly, and depressed.
KARLA: Yeah, right whatever.
JULIE: I think I just really hurt Ray's Listen to me, Julie. Ray's a great guy, nothing against old Ray, but he's so.Ray. I mean, he lives in Southport. Will's a nice guy, too, and he lives right down the street. Karla picks up the flashlight and goes into the closet.
KARLA: ( keeping it upbeat ) Listen to me, Julie. Ray's a great guy, nothing against old Ray, but he's so.Ray. I mean, he lives in Southport. Will's a nice guy, too, and he lives right down the street. Karla picks up the flashlight and goes into the closet.
JULIE: There's nothing between Will and me.
JULIE: No I'm not. Karla holds up another dress for Julie strapless, sexy, the one.
KARLA: Fine, then be fat, ugly, and Karla is dancing around. Julie laughs at her friend and takes the dress when Karla hands it to her.
TYRELL: You know what I want to do to you .right now, don't you? There's gotta be somewhere we can be alone.
KARLA: ( playful ) I don't think so. It's pretty Just for a minute, baby. I got something I wanna tell you. He's looking for a dark corner or a storeroom or something.
TYRELL: Just for a minute, baby. I got something I wanna tell you. He's looking for a dark corner or a storeroom or something.
KARLA: ( teasing ) If you can say all you gotta say in a minute then I don't wanna hear I'll talk real slow. He's kissing her ear. She starts to giggle. The bartender sets down drinks on Karla's tray.
TYRELL: I'll talk real slow. He's kissing her ear. She starts to giggle. The bartender sets down drinks on Karla's tray.
KARLA: ( re: Julie ) Ask her to dance. Tyrell hesitates. Go on. Karla cuts away through the crowd, delivering drinks. Tyrell turns to You're the most beautiful woman in the bar tonight, Jules.
TYRELL: You're the most beautiful woman in the bar tonight, Jules.
JULIE: Tyrell, you are an unstoppable force of nature.
TYRELL: That's right. It's how the species survives. You'll never convince me Wanna dance? Karla passes by
KARLA: Say yes.
JULIE: No means yes.
KARLA: No means yes.
JULIE: Tyrell, I appreciate it, but have you seen my people dance? We make the mouth face, we move the Worse comes to worse, you can stand there and watch me.
TYRELL: ( heading for the floor ) Worse comes to worse, you can stand there and watch me.
KARLA: Come on, I'll take a break and we'll all dance.
JULIE: ( suspicious, but having fun ) Karla! Did you tell him I'd be here?
KARLA: Nope. I told him that you absolutely, positively would not be here at this bar between ten o'clock and eleven o'clock tonight. And then he came anyway.
WILL: ( shy to a fault ) This was not my idea.
JULIE: I said, this.Do you want a drink? Will looks down at his feet. He and Julie stand there not quite knowing what to do.
WILL: I said, this.Do you want a drink? Will looks down at his feet. He and Julie stand there not quite knowing what to do.
TYRELL: Where I come from, you want to snatch the goodies, you got to at least talk to them first. Tyrell and Karla go for it on the dance floor, leaving Will and Julie alone. They look at each other. They look at everyone dancing.
WILL: How about a drink? Will is a few steps ahead as they move for the bar. Julie seems to be relaxing, having a good time. Then, she looks up into the balcony and sees, in a strobe light's FLASH
WILL: ( yelling over the din ) You okay? She's chalk white and crestfallen. Her whole affect is "Will I ever have a normal time?" She drifts amay toward the stairs to the balcony. Hey Julie? Will catches Karla and Tyrell's eyes. They're worried.
JULIE: The stranger turns around. It's only a club kid in a tacky vinyl raincoat and hat. She's shaken.
SLICKER GUY: Hye, baby. You following me up Well, all right. Julie turns away and hurries down the hallway. Todd follows, but his figure quickly fades.
JULIE: ( still sleepy ) That could break the machine.
KARLA: Julie, people who end up making rules like that end up beating their kids with wire hangers. It's a fact. The phone RINGS. Karla looks at her watch. It's Tyrell.
JULIE: ( resigned ) The number's unlisted.
KARLA: Would you relax? We've been dating three months. He ain't stalking your butt.
JULIE: Okay, okay. You're right.
KARLA: I know it, and it feels good. Hi, Ty. A DJ for a local radio station BOOMS from the phone.
KARLA: Mark in the Morning! Magic 96.7! Oh my God! I'm Karla. Karla Wilson. Jules, it's Mark in the Morning.
KARLA: Well, I'm in school and
KARLA: Julie hits the SPEAKERPHONE BUTTON and Karla hangs up. The DJ's voice echos through the appartment.
KARLA: ( into phone ) Brazil? Um. She looks to Julie, whose face is as blank as hers. You don't know?! You have to know. You know everything.
MARK: C'mon, Karla, one easy question, one great getaway!
JULIE: ( shrugs ) .South America.Carnival.
KARLA: Still here.thinking. You mean Brazil, the country?
KARLA: ( blurting ) Rio de Janeiro!
KARLA: ( wincing ) No. Yes? BELLS and WHISTLES and triumphant MUSIC.
KARLA: MARK ( V.O. ) We'll call you back with all the details.So what's your favorite radio station?
KARLA: I won. I won.I won, I won, I won. Now, let's see.There's Tyrell, that's one. And, there's my parents .And I got some cousins. Okay, Julie, you can come, but Mark said four tickets. That means you gotta get yourself a date. Julie thinks, she seems torn.
DAVE: Hey, Ray.phone! Ray takes the phone.
JULIE: Ray is happy to hear her voice, but cautious.
RAY: ( beat ) Hey. I'm really glad you called. I'm sorry.
JULIE: ( compassoinate ) No, you don't have to be sorry. I'm the one
RAY: No, I shouldn't have left so fast. I was just.
JULIE: It's okay. Dave holds up two wriggling snappers. He dances them toward each other in a puppetlike mating ritual, making KISSING SOUNDS and narrating
DAVE: ( as the fish ) Julie, I love you. I know I'm only a humble fish, but if you really look at it, you're a fish, too. ( girl voice ) Oh, Ray, you're right.Do me like a ( mashing the fish together ) Hey, something smells like fish. Ray waves him away, concentrating on his call.
JULIE: Ray, Karla won a trip to the Bahamas! An island called Tower Bay. And she wants us to come with her.
RAY: What? The Bahamas? You're kidding. Dave's interest is piqued.
JULIE: We'd have a long weekend just to sit in the sun, drink fruity drinks, and swim, and. You know.
RAY: This weekend? Dave is watching Ray closely. Ray's expression hardens.
RAY: ( hurt ) You'll go away with you're college friends, but you won't go away with Idiot. Idiot. Idiot. Karla is watching Julie.
DAVE: Idiot. Idiot. Idiot. Karla is watching Julie.
JULIE: It's not you, it's Southport. And it's the Bahamas! And it's free! Karla is watching Julie.
KARLA: You gotta sell his butt on the Ray, come on. I want us to be Ray thinks. Dave looks at him like he's crazy.
JULIE: Ray, come on. I want us to be Ray thinks. Dave looks at him like he's crazy.
RAY: ( can't give in ) Julie, we're working a big run up here. It's been crazy. We probably have to go out again tonight. I don't think I can do it.
JULIE: Will you try.for me, please? Dave moves one of the fish like it's been shot through the heart.
RAY: Okay, I'll try. But, listen. If I don't make it up, then you go ahead and have a great time.
JULIE: Ray.please try. I really miss you. Okay. Bye. She hangs up and Karla sits next to her.
KARLA: That boy has got fish on the brain. Hey, cheer up, Charlie. We're going to the Bahamas. Bahama Mama, yeah.
DAVE: Man, what is your problem? We haven't caught anything for days. Pull the big ugly stick out of your butt. She asked you to go to the Bahamas! Man, you gotta go. We'll both drive up. I got friends I can see up there. Ray realizes how right he is.
RAY: Stupid. Stupid.
DAVE: Stupid. What were you thinkng? Ray looks at Dave a contemplative beat, then walks over to his truck. He leans in the passenger side and pulls out the engagement ring box. Dave walks over.
RAY: You wanna see what I've been He holds up the box and slowly opens it. Dave is stunned.
DAVE: Jeez, Ray, fourth and forty, throw the bomb.
RAY: I should go up there. I should call her back, tell her I'm coming.
DAVE: No way, man. Surprise her. She'll be Ray is excited by the plan and Dave's right there with him.
DAVE: Man, I love AM radio. You got right-wing conspiracy, tips for pregnant womem, Single-A baseball games, and real country music. None of that new crap. He adjusts the dial again, tuning in a country song, "MAMAS, DON'T LET YOUR BABIES GROW UP TO BE COWBOYS," by Waylon Jennings and Willie Dave starts singing along, extra LOUD and out of tune. ".Mamas, don't let your babies grow up to be cowboys, don't let 'em pick guitars and drive them old trucks. Let 'em be doctors and lawyers and such." Ray looks at his goofy friend singing and starts to get a little happy Then, Ray sees something in the road ahead. He turns down the radio. They both stare
A BODY: is sprawled out in the road away from the car. Ray pulls over to the shoulder and stops.
DAVE: ( nervous ) I don't know, man. Maybe we should keep going, find a phone
RAY: The guy looks dead. Ray has seen this before
DAVE: The guy looks dead. Ray has seen this before
RAY: Maybe not. He throws open his door.
RAY: ( nervous ) Hey! Buddy, what's up? The body doesn't move.
BEHIND RAY: and behind Dave, in the other car, a FIGURE IN A SLICKER sits up in the back seat and gets out of the car. Ray continues toward the body.
BEHIND RAY: SLICKER FIGURE moves toward the unsuspecting Dave.
RAY: Hey, can you hear me? Ray reaches toward the body.
RAY: 12F EXT. TRUCK - NIGHT
DAVE!: 12F EXT. TRUCK - NIGHT
RAY: There's no answer from dead Dave. Ray tries to see around the headlights. He moves slowly toward the truck. The BRIGHTS and FOGS come on, blinding Ray. The truck's engine REVS. The truck rolls a few inches, adjusting a bead on Ray. Then, tires spinning, the truck launches straight at Ray. Ray runs at the truck. AT THE LAST MINUTE, he ducks behind the parked HIS TRUCK goes SCREAMING past. Ray backs around the car
RAY: jumps off the edge of the road. His TRUCK SLAMS INTO THE BARRIER RIGHT
KARLA: Girl, it's gettin' down to the wire. Julie turns.
JULIE: He's not coming. I thought he was Julie, you left four messages. But, he said he'd try.
KARLA: Julie, you left four messages. But, he said he'd try.
JULIE: But, he said he'd try.
KARLA: He said he'd try. Try is like maybe. Try is nothing!
JULIE: ( appoligizing for him ) He does work hard.
KARLA: Work hard, huh? He's breaking your heart just because he can. And I don't want to have to say I told you so.
JULIE: Then, don't. A Jeep Cherokee stops, and an ebullient Tyrell steps out wearing shorts and a Hawaiian shirt.
TYRELL: Hey, baby, we gonna get tropical or we gonna get tropical? The passenger door opens and Will Benson steps hesitantly around the Hey, sorry. He's my friend, too. And that ticket is not going to waste. Will reads Julie's expression.
JULIE: ( re: Will ) Hey, sorry. ( quick, playing it off ) He's my friend, too. And that ticket is not going to waste. Will reads Julie's expression.
KARLA: ( re: Will ) Hey, sorry. ( quick, playing it off ) He's my friend, too. And that ticket is not going to waste. Will reads Julie's expression.
WILL: Julie, is everything cool? Karla I said we start having fun. And that means now. Julie takes a last look up the street. She stands.
KARLA: I said we start having fun. And that means now. Julie takes a last look up the street. She stands.
TYRELL: Is there a problem here?
KARLA: Where there's a Will, there's a way. Come on.
JULIE: ( deciding ) You know what? This rocks. We're going to the Bahamas! Will is relieved.
KARLA: ( getting into the spirit ) We goin' Bahamas, I'm Ty's Bahama Mama. We goin' Bahamas. She bops over to Tyrell.
JULIE: Just take deep breaths and think of something happy from childhood.
WILL: What if I don't have anything happy from childhood.Sorry, I can't relax going five hundred miles an hour, or four thousand, four hundred feet a Which is over seven hundred feet a second. Imagine hitting something at seven hundred feet a second.
JULIE: Deep breaths
WILL: ( no deep breaths ) Fumes build up in the fuel tanks. You can by surface-to-air missiles over the internet. Planes use O-rings.which freeze in tap water. Planes fall from the sky for practically no reason at all.
JULIE: You've got a better chance of getting hit by lightning.
WILL: Right. Planes get hit by lightning. They get hit by meteors. They hit other planes. Tyrell shakes his head.
TYRELL: ( exasperated ) Something is gonna hit your butt if you don't quit complaining.
KARLA: ( sypathetic ) Honey, some folks just can't fly. Will doesn't move, frozen with fear of flying, but more closely bonded with the concerned Julie.
JULIE: ( deadpan ) I'm the King of the World.
KARLA: ( deadpan ) No, I'm the King of the World. They switch places. They look at each other and crack up laughing. Karla takes in the surroundings, the salt spray, the day
KARLA: Remind me to study real hard so someday this is normal and all that back there is somethin' I do for a weekend once every ten years.
JULIE: ( sharing the moment ) I will, and you remind me of the same They throws their arms around each other and stare into the horizon.
WILL: You just gotta breathe. Tyrell is trying to keep from puking
TYRELL: Can't talk right now.
WILL: ( slightly malicious ) See, it's not a macho thing. It's about equilibrium in your inner ear. You could've used a patch, but it's too late now. Get used to it. ( then ) Some folks just can't sail. PAULSEN, the BOAT CAPTAIN, overhears as he passes
PAULSEN: That's too bad, too, because it's the only way on or off the island. Unless you have an accident. And then they call the Coast Guard. Julie and Karla have rejoined the men.
JULIE: It's pretty remote here.
PAULSEN: ( smiles ) Yep. That's what the tourists pay for sun, sea, and solitude.
TYRELL: Are we there yet?
PAULSEN: Few more minutes. We move off the boat and REVEAL the island. The intrepid vacationers excitedly take in the island.
TYRELL: I feel like I'm still on that thing. A dockhand, DERRICK, glides past him toward the ladies.
DERRICK: That way for a complimentary Planter's Punch to get you readjusted.
TYRELL: ( mile-wide smile ) I can get used to this. Derrick reaches for Julie's hand, clearly checking her out in the Welcome, Fair Princess, to Tower Bay. ( a wink ) I'm Derrick. At your service for the duration of your stay. Julie smiles politely. Will gently nudges her on. They walk away.
DERRICK: Welcome, Fair Princess, to Tower Bay. I'm Derrick. At your service for the duration of your stay. Julie smiles politely. Will gently nudges her on. They walk away.
PAULSEN: ( to Derrick, mocking ) I'm at your service, Princess.
DERRICK: ( shrugs ) Season's over old man. So I gotta work fast.
PAULSEN: If Marine Radio's right about the weather, you're already out of time. He hangs a SIGN at the end of the gangplank. It reads: LAST DEPARTING
KARLA: Check it out.
TYRELL: Yes, ma'am. Karla THWACKS him on the back of the head, but they're all having fun. The path widens. The trees part. It's even nicer up close. They walk across a tiled plaza. Behind them, THREE YOUNG GUYS carry their GIRLFRIENDS piggyback, racing each other toward the departure dock. Our two arriving couples move on toward the entrace, passing a FENCED TENNIS COURT on the left. A GLASS-PANED ORCHID HOUSE straight ahead. And, on the right, A LUSH POOL with a built-in JACUZZI in the shallow end. An outdoor THATCHED ROOF BAR stands nearby and just beyonk it, a small POOL
RASTA VOICE: They turn to see TITUS, white guy, dreads, full-Rasta demeanor. He's a phony, but sincere about it. Titus approaches Tyrell
TITUS: My brother, can I interest you in the islands finest ganja?
WILL: ( teasing ) Hey, Tyrell, we found you brother.
TYRELL: ( wry ) Not possible.
TITUS: ( undetered ) Who be wantin' the kind, the uber- sticky, the Bwana, The depth-charge, the Up-All-Night-Laughing-With-Your- Friends? Who wants it? 'Cause Titus got No, thanks.
WILL: No, thanks.
TITUS: Come on, man. Everybody wants something. Will and Tyrell walk on. Undetered, Titus goes up to Karla and Julie. How 'bout you, ladies? Lovely ladies. Titus moves his hips. Something I can do for you? Karla looks him up and down, wrinkles her nose
KARLA: Take a bath, maybe.
TITUS: That's cold, but if that's how you want it. The group moves on. Titus watches them go Anybudorsomethin' you come and see me.
KARLA: Hello? Hello?
JULIE: Where is everyone? I'll ask Julie turns to consult the maid.
TYRELL: I'll scare somebody up. He grabs the knob and pulls the door open to. RROWWWR? A PIT BULL ON A CHAIN JUMPS UP INTO HIS FACE its toothy maw snapping shut about a half inch from his nose. Julie and Karla laugh. Karla goes to hit the bell once more ONLY TO
BROOKS: What can I do for you?
KARLA: Checking in.Karla Wilson. Will saunters away to look at the books in the lobby.
BROOKS: ( condescending ) Ah, yes. Roll out the red carpet. Our contest winners are here at He scans a sheet as Tyrell stares at the pit bull.
TYRELL: Nice dog.
BROOKS: Not really. I've found peices of guys like you in his stool. Tyrell is put off by this aggressive comment.
TYRELL: What's your problem, buddy?
BROOKS: ( innocent ) I don't have a problem in the world.
JULIE: ( covering ) It sure is a beautiful old hotel.
BROOKS: ( proud ) Built in 1948 for a member of the Rockefeller clan. The tile work was imported from Spain. A lot of history in these walls.Judy Garland stayed here.Hemmingway fished for marlin right off that dock
TYRELL: Okay, we get it.It's old.
BROOKS: It'll outlive you, I'm sure. Creepy thing to say. Slides a registration form. Wilson comma Karla. Oh, what? Brooks covers
KARLA: Oh, what? Brooks covers
BROOKS: You're in 201 and 202.
KARLA: ( expecting this ) Is that bad?
BROOKS: ( lying ) Not at all. Those are our honeymoon Tyrell wraps his arms around Karla. Julie looks uncomfortably towards Your what?
JULIE: Your what?
BROOKS: Honeymoon suites. I take it you kids haven't exchanged vows, yet?
JULIE: We haven't exchanged anything.
KARLA: Julie, we're talkin' suites! That'll be just fine with us.
BROOKS: And, while you're here, our marginally trained, off-season staff of five will attend to your every need.
KARLA: Wait.Did you say off-season?
BROOKS: July fourth weekend. Storm season starts today. The clouds roll in like Storm season?
JULIE: Storm season?
BROOKS: It's our version of winter. 201 and 202. There's Scrabble and Parcheesi in the lobby. Enjoy. And Brooks turns away through the office door. They walk toward their rooms. Will catches up with them.
KARLA: Ain't nothin' free in this world. Everybody says it, and it's true. I wanted you all to have a good trip.
TYRELL: We will, baby.All this means is we got the whole island to ourselves.
WILL: And it's been blue skies all day. It might be perfect all weekend.
JULIE: It beets being on the mainland.
KARLA: Oooh, the mainland
TYRELL: Somebody's gone tropical on us, baby. The mood is improving. A SQUEEKING NOISE interupts. A BRASS LUGGAGE CART has appeared behind them. And ESTES, 60s, the weary Haitian porter, steps from behind it.
ESTES: ( a Carribean accent ) 201 and 202.Who put you in.? ( hesitant ) Don't use these much
JULIE: ( suspicious ) Why's that? He sees their happy, expectant faces and changes the subject.
ESTES: No real reason. Pretty fancy rooms for kids your age.
KARLA: We won a competition.
ESTES: Oh, yeah? What you have to do?
TYRELL: Guess the capital of Brazil
KARLA: Rio, baby!
ESTES: Ahh, good for you, girl. .And, where would you like me to put the bags? A beat as Julie and Karla exchange a look. Then, Karla tosses one of the keys to Julie.
KARLA: ( to Estes ) Their stuff in there. ( grabbing Tyrell ) .and ours in here.
JULIE: Karla! You promised.
KARLA: ( looking at Tyrell ) I also promised Tyrell.
TYRELL: Promised me what, baby? I made all my promises to William. Tyrell makes fake goo-goo eyes at Will. Estes looks away. Sweetie, you brought your nightie, didn't you?
WILL: Forward! A girl needs time to make up his mind. Julie, look, if it's cool, I'll sleep on the couch and they can have their own room to practice for that real But Tyrell grabs Karla and drags her into the room. We here GIGGLES.
WILL: I'll take those.
ESTES: No, I've been doing this since before you were a dream in your father's eye. Estes grabs the bags and takes them into the room. Julie and Will are left staring at each other.
WILL: You sure it's okay with you?
JULIE: ( noting his sweetness ) Sure. It's fine. As long as you don't You can toss a shoe at me if it gets out of hand. She laughs and they go into the room.
WILL: You can toss a shoe at me if it gets out of hand. She laughs and they go into the room.
COP: He's beaten up pretty bad
DOCTOR: Yes, but he seemed certain his friend was killed out on the highway by somebody named Ben Willis. He said he has a hook on his hand. He said he was driving a BMW. As the cop stares at him deadpan, the doctor realizes how rediculous this must sound.
COP: There's no body. And there was no other vehical involved. He fell asleep at the wheel.and ran his old truck into a guardrail. He got thrown way the hell down into a ditch. He's damn lucky. They walk back down the ICU.
DOCTOR: ( nodding ) He suffered a severe head trauma
COP: Probably once he rests up, it'll all come back to him. The doctor and cop approach the nurse's station. The NURSE is reading a magazine. She folds it away. Suddenly, the monitoring equpment goes OFF with a series of LOUD
NURSE: ( already moving ) That's your number twelve The doctor, nurse, and country cop hurry back toward Ray's room. ( yelling ) Get me some help down here. We got a flatline, room twelve.
NANCY: You guys lost?
TYRELL: ( re: the emptiness ) Tell me this ain't the bar scene.
NANCY: Wanna drink?
WILL: We didn't get all dressed up for Planter's Punch, Singapore Sling, or how about a Mai-Tai?
TYRELL: Planter's Punch, Singapore Sling, or how about a Mai-Tai?
NANCY: How about some ID? They freeze. They nod.
WILL: The guy at the desk said the place would be quiet, not dead.
NANCY: Didn't anyone tell you this is
TYRELL: The last day of the season. Yeah, we So why are you still here?
WILL: So why are you still here?
NANCY: That's none of your business. Tyrell sizes her up quickly.
TYRELL: What's the matter, boy trouble?
NANCY: Not anymore.
TYRELL: He leave you?
NANCY: No. I shot him. Will and Tyrell exchange a danger-Will-Robinson glance. What you want is a Dark and Stormy: Vernon's rum, ginger beer, and a touch of Tabasco. Sailors drink it for luck in the hurricane season, trust me.
JULIE: Am I bad? I mean, he's really great, and he's cute
KARLA: He's cute.And he's got a crush on I miss Ray.I tried to call him. Karla looks at her. She's sincere, but firm.
JULIE: ( appologetic ) I miss Ray.I tried to call him. Karla looks at her. She's sincere, but firm.
KARLA: Ray made up his own mind.so, you're free to make up yours. Joining the men, but continuing her thought For the next foury-eight hours. Your smile is a frown.turned upside She illustrates with her own big smile.
TYRELL: Pretty cool bar.
KARLA: They all start to look the same once you've worked in one. Am I right, sister? Nancy reaches out a hand and they touch just the tips of their I'm Julie. This is Karla.
JULIE: ( to Nancy ) I'm Julie. This is Karla.
NANCY: ( sarcastic ) Welcome to Tower Bay's most happenin' Nancy continues making their cocktails.
JULIE: backs into something, turns and gasps it's a statue of an OLD WHALER, complete with HARPOON, WHITE BEARD, and YELLOW SLICKER. She doesn't let Karla see that it upset her. Nancy puts their drinks down in front of them.
NANCY: Four Dark and Stormies. They all pick up their drinks.
KARLA: ( toasting ) To a great weekend
WILL: Yeah, a great weekend. Forget the I'll drink to that! They drink and toast again.
KARLA: ( to Nancy ) So what do you do around here for fun? Nancy looks straight at Will
NANCY: Make fun of tourists mainly. Or let them make fun of themselves. She flips a switch that lights the Karaoke stage.
KARLA: Karaoke perfect.
JULIE: Don't even think about it.
KARLA: Okay, I won't. She's already heading for the stage.
TYRELL: Go baby! Go!
KARLA: Oh, this ain't for me, baby, this is for somebody who really needs it. Ah-hah! One single with extra cheese!
NANCY: ( it's true ) Everyone thinks their a singer.
JULIE: No way.
KARLA: Not me.no way.
JULIE: Not me.no way.
KARLA: Not me.no way.
JULIE: Not me.no way.
WILL: Come on, it'll be fun.
KARLA: Ladies and gentlemen, please put your hands together for my friend, my very best friend, Julie James. But there will be no mercy.
JULIE: You asked for it. Song number thirty-nine. Tyrell nods and punches a few buttons. Julie takes the stage as sappy strings begin to swell. She looks at the MONITOR, then melodramatically at the crowd, and begins to sing no, BELT Gloria Gaynor's "I WILL SURVIVE." First I was afraid.I was petrified. Will stands, clapping. Tyrell pounds his chest. Karla flips up her LIGHTER, swaying like a hard-core fan. And Julie continues, crooning out the chorus as the beat kicks in and the gang begins to dance. I will survive.I will survive.
MICROPHONE: falls to the floor. The room echoes with an electronic WHUMP. Everyone stops dancing, confused.
WILL: Julie? What's wrong?
JULIE: What do you mean, Julie?
WILL: What do you mean, Julie?
JULIE: He did something to the screen.it, it, said. Julie loos at the screen the normal lyrics are still scrolling. She suddenly feels their eyes upon her. They're looking at her like she's having a nervous breakdown. Nothing. Nothing, I'm sorry. Stung, she rushes off the stage.
KARLA: But it's to late. She's bolted from the bar.
JULIE: There's no way.just stop it right She looks around the cozy room. Closet. Bed. Bathroom. No need to panic. Julie starts to undress, get ready for bed, the day of travel finally catching up with her. She grabs something to sleep in. Tosses it on the bed. And that's when she sees it,
DARKFIGURE: appears over Julie's shoulder. Julie can feel the presence. She spins, who YELLS and drops the flowers and champagne he was holding. The bottle bursts and covers them with spray.
WILL: who YELLS and drops the flowers and champagne he was holding. The bottle bursts and covers them with spray.
JULIE: ( realizing ) Oh, Will! I'm sorry.
WILL: It's my fault. I shouldn't have.I didn't think. She grabs a TOWEL off the bathroom door, trying to help him clean up the mess.
JULIE: No, no, no. This was really sweet.
WILL: I scared you I crossed the line
JULIE: No it's not that. It's.I'm just a little on edge. I'm really sorry.
WILL: Hey, you don't have to appologize to me. I'm the one. I understand. I'm going to take a walk and dry off.
JULIE: Are you sure? I really appreciate it. He picks up a rose. Most of its petals on the floor.
WILL: I just really like you and I want you to feel good about everything.You know? I want you to be happy. He hands the rose to her. There's a moment between them. He reluctantly heads for the door.
WILL: ( soto ) Passing Karla and Tyrell's room on his way down the hall, Will spots the DO NOT DISTURB SIGN. He hears an INCREDIBLE POUNDING from inside. He shakes his head and mopes down the hall.
KARLA: Tha's it. I've decided. I'm changing my major to finance. And going to Wall Street.
TYRELL: 'Cause that's the only way I'm ever gonna be able to afford a big bed like She falls back against the plush comforter, looking up at herself in a long MIRROR HANGING RIGHT OVER THE BED. Tyrell loves this and quickly moves beside her in the bed. She lets him get real close, then she jumps up Tyrell reaches for her, but she bounces off the bed.
KARLA: 'Cause that's the only way I'm ever gonna be able to afford a big bed like She falls back against the plush comforter, looking up at herself in a long MIRROR HANGING RIGHT OVER THE BED. Tyrell loves this and quickly moves beside her in the bed. She lets him get real close, then she jumps up Tyrell reaches for her, but she bounces off the bed.
TYRELL: Ah, baby, let's stay right here. Karla pulls her suit out of a bag and models it seductively and flirtatiously for Tyrell.
KARLA: I spent a hundred bucks on it.even if it's just so you can pull it off. Tyrell gets off the bed
TYRELL: I like the sound of this.
DERRICK: Damn. I should've brought my pole. He turns away. As he does, we see
TITUS: standing there smoking a spliff.
DERRICK: Get lost, you scared me.
TITUS: Fish are all over the water.Come on, let us take a boat out.
DERRICK: Titus, you're so stoned, you'd end up in Spain.
TITUS: That's why you'll come with Titus, mon. Derrick throws the hose in its place.
DERRICK: There's a storm comin', Titus. No boats are going out.
TITUS: Storm is what makes it interesting. Thass why all the fish are up. Less hook us a couple big ones. Derrick is now ignoring Titus.
DERRICK: I got work to do. Take the bake Up-tighteous and self-righteous. Titus glides away into the dark. Derrick watches him go. There's another SPLASH in the water near the dock. Derrick walks to where the splash was. He kneels down by the edge watching BUBBLES RISE from the dark water below.
TITUS: Up-tighteous and self-righteous. Titus glides away into the dark. Derrick watches him go. There's another SPLASH in the water near the dock. Derrick walks to where the splash was. He kneels down by the edge watching BUBBLES RISE from the dark water below.
DERRICK: ( to the fish ) Hello, little sea bass. You're lucky I'm busy or I'd hook you myself.
KARLA: You sure you didn't pick up my hair Okay, I just didn't wanna get my hair wet.
TYRELL: ( rubbing his bald head ) Okay, I just didn't wanna get my hair wet.
KARLA: Okay, I just didn't wanna get my hair wet.
TYRELL: Baby, I finally got you alone in this Jacuzzi and I don't wanna be discussin' hair care. She splashes him.
KARLA: Don't you get feisty. Tyrell moves in for the kill. He won't take no for an answer.
TYRELL: Too late for that. We're miles from anywhere, baby. No one's gonna hear you scream. He goes in for a serious kiss. Things start to heat up
KARLA: I used to be a lifeguard.I'd hate to have to blow my whistle.
TYRELL: ( playful ) I'd hate for you to have to blow.your Tyrell is done talking. He pulls her over to him and the moment becomes more passionate. Karla opens her eyes in time to see
TITUS: surface in the pool next to them. Karla SCREAMS. And not just because it was a surprise. Titus looks even uglier when he's wet. Titus opens his mouth, reveals a smoking PHILLY BLUNT on the end of his tounge.
TITUS: No water sports after midnight. Hotel Titus eyes Karla in the Jacuzzi. Tyrell moves protectively in front of What's the policy on burnin' herb?
TYRELL: What's the policy on burnin' herb?
TITUS: We got one for that, too. It's don't try until you buy. You don't buy any, you don't get any. Titus blows a cloud of smoke on them both, rolls the joint back into his mouth, and swims off. Tyrell is angry, but Karla pulls him back. A dejected Will appears in his bathing suit, a towel over his arm. Tyrell sees him coming.
TYRELL: There's ten people on this whole island and they're all gonna end up in this Jacuzzi with us.
WILL: ( getting in ) How's the water?
TYRELL: Will slips into the water ignoring Tyrell's look.
KARLA: Will slips into the water ignoring Tyrell's look.
WILL: Ahh, that feels great.
KARLA: ( considerate ) How's Julie?
WILL: Alone. In the room. Got any advise?
TYRELL: ( annoyed ) Yeah. Find another Jacuzzi. Karla shoots Tyrell a look.
KARLA: ( to Will ) Your not out yet, slugger. You gotta just get back up there and keep 31A EXT. JULIE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT Ray is at a telephone booth up the street from Julie's apartment. He looks exausted. Blood seeps through his shirt. He's in pain.
RAY: I need an international operator.
THE TELEPHONE: RINGS and RINGS. We push in on the phone RINGING unanswered in the night. Nobody is around to answer it.
JULIE: ( calling out ) No reply.
JULIE: No answer. She peers through the PEEPHOLE. She unlocks and opens it. Nobody there. Julie quickly closes the door and relocks it, her heart rate just begining to rise again as. KLUNK-KLUNK. She hears it again. Then, the sound STOPS. But standing at the door she realizes that's not where it came from. Her eyes immediately go to.
THE CLOSET: Damn. That's where it came from. She slowy pads across the room in her slippers toward the door. Trembling.she reaches for the handle.AND
THE DOCKHAND: comes dropping down at her, dangling, enmeshed in barbed wire. He's dying before our eyes. Blood bubbling from his mouth. His body Julie stares at the body. She's almost catatonic. She blinks. She blinks again. Suddenly, in DEATH CONVULSIONS, his arms fly toward her She SCREAMS
JULIE: It's happening again! There's a body! Will cathes her in his arms and she sobs uncontrollably.
WILL: What? What are you talking about? It's in my room! They can see she's not fooling around.
JULIE: It's in my room! They can see she's not fooling around.
BROOKS: I don't find this at all funny. Julie steps in stares into the empty closet. She can't believe her She searches their faces, looking for someone to believe her.
JULIE: There was a body! I swear it!
WILL: ( delicately ) Julie, you said you were tired. Waybe you were dreaming.
JULIE: ( sharp ) I wasn't dreaming.
BROOKS: I knew you people were goining to be trouble. I knew from the first time I laid eyes on you. Julie grabs Brooks by his robe.
JULIE: Listen to me. He's here.
BROOKS: Who? Who is here? She doesn't know where to start. Nancy pokes her head around the door.
NANCY: What's going on?
TYRELL: Julie thinks there's a dead guy in the The rest of us see bathrobes.
NANCY: The rest of us see bathrobes.
TYRELL: The rest of us see bathrobes.
JULIE: ( sharp ) I am not crazy, Tyrell. He was right ( not taking it seriously ) Fine. Show me the body. Will wanders over to the closet and checks it out.
TYRELL: ( not taking it seriously ) Fine. Show me the body. Will wanders over to the closet and checks it out.
KARLA: Think about this, Julie. What did you actually see?
JULIE: The dockhand guy. Hanging by his neck from up there.
BROOKS: ( case closed ) In the morning we'll talk to Derrick, the "dockhand guy," and put the whole thing to rest. ( looks to Nancy ) Now, let's slow down on the Dark and Stormies and get some sleep.
NANCY: Don't look at me
JULIE: I want off this island.
BROOKS: ( tired ) Not possible, I'm afraid. The last ferry left hours ago. And we got a storm coming. There won't be another one for There's a storm coming?
TYRELL: There's a storm coming?
BROOKS: 'Tis the season, like I told you. It's a big one. Julie goes for the phone.
JULIE: Then I'll call the mainland for a Phones went down a few minutes ago. She picks up the phone, listens, then dangles it from her hand.
BROOKS: Phones went down a few minutes ago. She picks up the phone, listens, then dangles it from her hand.
JULIE: It's dead. An exasperated Brooks heads for the door.
BROOKS: Duh. The next couple of days is gonna be rough, but we'll make it.
KARLA: What about a radio?
BROOKS: Sorry. Emergencies only.
KARLA: What the hell would you call this?
BROOKS: I'd call this four spoiled city kids who wouldn't know a hurricane if it blew up their butts. All we can do now is batten down and ride it out. If things get really bad, there's a storm shelter. And Brooks is gone. Outside the window, it starts to rain. There's a CLAP of thunder.
JULIE: looks out the window with glazed-over eyes.
TINY WINDOW: in the bell tower. A candle burns, and lighning flashes illuminate the haggard face of Estes, the porter.
OLGA: ( beat ) She knocks again and notices her hand leaving bloody marks on the door. She looks at her other hand. Her arms and hands are covered in She turns back to the linens. Something bloody is wrapped inside of them. She paws at the sheets, trying to unravel the mystery The door the Room 228 slowly cracks open. A STEEL HOOK reaches out and slices into her apron. It tugs. She turns, and she starts to SCREAM, she is yanked into the room. A DO NOT DISTURB sign flips over the handle and the door SLAMS shut. We hear her SCREAMS from inside.
MAC: Jeez, that's a full carat
RAY: How much?
MAC: Well, there's some flaws in her.
RAY: How much? Mac looks around his shop at the usual jumble of crap: vacuum cleaners, golf clubs, guitar amps.
MAC: Don't really have the market for something like this. I can go two.two-fifty.
RAY: Make it three hundred. And throw that in, too.
MAC: Hell, that's worth three, easy. And you got your waiting period.
RAY: I'm not waiting.So give me the gun and keep the ring. Mac barely hasitates, he knows he's getting a steal
MAC: Fine, buddy.
RAY: Is it loaded? Mac shakes his head. Load it. Off Mac's sadness at young people today.
TYRELL: This ain't the romantic weekend I had in mind. Karla kisses Tyrell on the cheek.
KARLA: ( to Julie ) You get any sleep at all?
JULIE: Tyrell glares at Julie by the window. Sees the incredible rain.
TYRELL: Oh, look. Another day in paradise with Julie-your-tour-director.Miss Psychotic Episode.
KARLA: ( calling to Julie ) See any dead bodies out there? Any fresh kill? How 'bout Freddy, Jason? Julie ignores him, staring out the window.
TYRELL: ( calling to Julie ) See any dead bodies out there? Any fresh kill? How 'bout Freddy, Jason? Julie ignores him, staring out the window.
WILL: Leave her alone. Angry at her boyfriend, Karla gets out of bed and joins Julie.
TYRELL: I'm just saying what all of you are thinking. It's bad enough gettin' rained out without having to hold her hand the whole time.
WILL: You don't have to be a jerk. Karla pulls Julie close in a show of support for her friend whose mind everyone believes has been inventing dead bodies.
JULIE: It's okay.He doesn't believe me. That's his right. I'm starting to think I'm crazy, too.
KARLA: Hey, slow down, turn off the little motor up in there.What do you say we go to the gym and work off a little stress? Julie doesn't look to enthusiastic.
JULIE: Nice move.
KARLA: I'll be givin' your fisherman some of that and see how he likes it. Julie smiles at her friend bravado. She steps over to a stairmaster and starts her workout.
TYRELL: Where is everybody?
WILL: ( gallows humor ) They're all dead.Dead, I tell you. ( ghostly ) Ahhhh, we're all deaaaddddd. Tyrellll, joinnnn usss. Will's voice echoes across the lobby. Tyrell is maybe a little nervous, but hiding it.
TYRELL: Shut up. They walk down the steps to the lobby.
WILL: ( calling out ) ( worried ) There's nobody here, Tyrell. Tyrell's already out the front entrance.
TYRELL: They're around.They just don't care about us 'cause we're the contest winners. Let's go find Stoner Boy.Make his lazy butt hook us up with fishing poles or Ping-Pong paddles or You know, the greenhouse effect has caused the gulf stream to shift and almost every meteorological expert expects a dramatic increase in tropical depression
WILL: ( nervous ) You know, the greenhouse effect has caused the gulf stream to shift and almost every meteorological expert expects a dramatic increase in tropical depression
TYRELL: Hey shut up, okay? Tyrell keeps walking. Will looks around at the wind-and-water-swept vista. Not much of a day for activities.
WILL: ( sotto ) I don't like to fish. Tyrell moves across the grounds. He looks back. Will is stopped in his tracks, looking up at
TYRELL: ( calling to Will ) You coming? Will trots after him, but he takes a glance back at the window.Estes is gone.
KARLA: Come on, Vampira. I got just the thing for you. Karla leads Julie over to the tanning beds.
JULIE: Cancer in a box.
KARLA: No, this is the safe sun. It's better than a day at the beach. Julie is reluctant. Come on, a little photosynthesis and you'll feel like a new
JULIE: Karla opens the canopy of the tanning bed.
KARLA: Julie peels off her sweats. Lies down in her underwear. Straps on a small pair of GOGGLES. Karla lowers the canopy over Julie.
JULIE: Just kidding.
KARLA: Just kidding.
TYRELL: ( calling out ) Hey, Bong Marley. Come here. The door SLAMS shut behind him. Tyrell looks back at the door. The latch seems to have stuck and it's no longer swinging. Tyrell turns back toward the other door and sees The PIT BULL standing in the doorway. Tyrell stares at the dog. The dog GROWLS at Tyrell, low and menacing.
TYRELL: I'm gonna kill you, Bong Boy. Simultaneously, Tyrell turns and the dog lunges forward. Tyrell sprints to the door it's LOCKED by a length of metal slipped into the coupling. He turns to see the dog bounding at him Tyrell leaps up the fence just as the pit bull lunges for him. The dog catches his pant leg. Tyrell kicks him away and frantically scrambles The dog relentlessly barks and snaps as Tyrell climbs the fence.
WILL: looks in at the dog angrily charging the chain-link. He looks up at He reaches out to try and catch Tyrell.
WILL: Come on. Jump. I've got you. He reaches out to try and catch Tyrell.
TYRELL: ( furious ) I gotta find me a pool boy.
KARLA: ( doing Julie ) Gee, Karla.That'll break the She approaches the MACHINE, which is rocking with the noise. Damn. How many pairs you got in She opens the dryer door and jumps back.
JULIE: You say something? Nothing. And just as Julie lies down again, Karla's frantic SCREAMS echo down the hall. Julie goes to push open the canopy. As she does, the CANOPY LID is JAMMED DOWN ON TOP OF HER. A CHAIN shoots through the handles. Julie is locked on the grill. Karla! Somebody? Hey, this isn't Suddenly the lights go off. Julie thrashes around, trying to free JULIE'S POV - THROUGH THE PURPLE LIGHT She sees someone walking around in the room. The person steps closer. Julie could almost reach out and touch him. She begins to SCREAM!
TYRELL: Take this.
WILL: And do what with it? Tyrell breaks another bottle in half.
TYRELL: Julienne of pool boy. They move toward the nearby POOL HOUSE.
TYRELL: Hey, pool boy. Tyrell closes the distance and kicks Titus in the back. Titus falls over like a block of wood, rictus already setting in. His hands are bound behind him. The cord is tied off to some pipes against the wall.
TYRELL: What the ? Will splashes a puddle of rainwater on his face
WILL: That's chlorine and muriatic acid. Put the two together and you get Tyrell rolls over on his back next to Will, practically coughing up a Cyanide? Like poison gas? You mean, somebody really killed him.Omigod. Think.Think. Suddenly, they both hear KARLA SCREAMING. They sprint for the main 55 EXT. BASEMENT WINDOW - DAY Tyrell and Will follow Karla's CRIES to a narrow srip of basement window which runs along the side of the hotel. Her palms have bloodied one of the windows.
TYRELL: Cyanide? Like poison gas? You mean, somebody really killed him.Omigod. Think.Think. Suddenly, they both hear KARLA SCREAMING. They sprint for the main 55 EXT. BASEMENT WINDOW - DAY Tyrell and Will follow Karla's CRIES to a narrow srip of basement window which runs along the side of the hotel. Her palms have bloodied one of the windows.
TYRELL: Get back
KARLA: ( screaming ) 58 INT. TANNING ROOM - DAY Tyrell and Will suddenly burst through the door.
JULIE: Oh, God, get me out. Get me out. Will struggles to open the bed, but the chain holds strong. Tyrell grabs a nearby dumbbell.
TYRELL: Hang on.
JULIE: ( almost relieved ) I'm not crazy.I'm not crazy. He's ( already moving for the door ) We've got to get to the radio and call for help.
KARLA: I think we can classify this as an emergency situation. They head for the manager's office.
TYRELL: Yo, Brooks, listen up Tyrell, Will, and Karla look at the radio, which is smashed on the floor next to Brooks. Julie stares in shock at the reverse wall, at
TYRELL: Somebody.is a sick, fingerpainting We gotta get out of here. Now. THE POWER CUTS OUT and the hotel plunges into darkness. Julie SCREAMS and runs from the hotel.
KARLA: We gotta get out of here. Now. THE POWER CUTS OUT and the hotel plunges into darkness. Julie SCREAMS and runs from the hotel.
WILL: 60 EXT. HOTEL - DAY
KARLA: There were boats here? Refresh my memory, there were boats. Tyrell picks up the end of a cut mooring line
TYRELL: They were cut loose.
WILL: Julie? Wanna tell us what is going on here? They look at Julie. Their escape is cut off by water. They're scared.
JULIE: ( freaking out ) We're all going to die. He's going to kill us one by one.
TYRELL: Ben Willis.
JULIE: Ben Willis.
KARLA: ( not this again ) Oh, stop it! He's dead. You killed him. Now, get over it. We gotta think here.
JULIE: They never found the body. Her voice is low and urgent, an impromptu confessional. Two summers ago. We lied to the authorities. We hit Ben Willis with our car. Ray, me, Barry, and Helen .We threw the body in the water to cover it up
KARLA: Only he wasn't dead. He killed Barry and Helen last July Fourth. Tyrell begins backing away from Julie. He picks up a piece of driftwood from the dock. I thought Ray and I killed him on the boat, but we didn't and now he's back to finish up the job. Tyrell holds up the log as a weapon. He's angry and afraid
JULIE: Only he wasn't dead. He killed Barry and Helen last July Fourth. Tyrell begins backing away from Julie. He picks up a piece of driftwood from the dock. I thought Ray and I killed him on the boat, but we didn't and now he's back to finish up the job. Tyrell holds up the log as a weapon. He's angry and afraid
TYRELL: We're on an island, miles from anywhere. I don't give a crap about you're fisherman. There's dead bodies pilling up everywhere and there's one guy missing Will moves closer to Tyrell
WILL: The porter.what's his name? Old Estes! That's exactly who it is. That old guy knows something. We can sit here and wait for him to pick us off or we can go find him first. Tyrell turns and heads down the dock. Will goes with him. Karla takes a few hesitant steps after them, then turns back toward Julie, who hasn't moved.
TYRELL: Estes! That's exactly who it is. That old guy knows something. We can sit here and wait for him to pick us off or we can go find him first. Tyrell turns and heads down the dock. Will goes with him. Karla takes a few hesitant steps after them, then turns back toward Julie, who hasn't moved.
KARLA: Julie, we have to do something. Julie sees her friend caught in the middle, sees her suffering. She reluctantly starts for Karla
JULIE: ( sotto ) It's not him.
OLD LADY: People live healthy in Miami. It's the future down there every day of the week.The future. Ray slumps back, waiting for the pills to work.
RAY: I'll keep that in mind.
TYRELL: Yo, Freak Boy The cluttered room is empty.
WILL: He's not here. Tyrell and Will begin roughly searching through Estes's possessions.
TYRELL: We're gonna find some weird crap in here. In the corner there is a curtain used as a partition. Julie pulls the curtain back and discovers
JULIE: I told you. Julie looks closer. She sees her toothbrush, a hair tie, assorted other knickknacks belonging to her friends.
TYRELL: I told you. Julie looks closer. She sees her toothbrush, a hair tie, assorted other knickknacks belonging to her friends.
TYRELL: ( to Karla ) Missing a hair tie? Karla looks in. Tyrell snatches the straw man up.
TYRELL: We found our guy. THUNDER rumbles across the sky like the judgement of God.
TYRELL: We gotta find flashlights, torches, guns if they got 'em, anything that'll help. Will and Tyrell eye the stairs leading down to the lobby.
TYRELL: Wait. Maybe he's down there collecting the body parts. Will and Tyrell exchange a glance, an "are you man enough?" kind of Let's go.
WILL: Let's go.
WILL: We'll only be a second, okay?
TYRELL: Yeah, wait right here, it's the safest place. Karla is terrified and waits by the stairs, but something catches Julie's eye. She walks across the lobby.
KARLA: Julie, where are you going? Julie keeps walking. She sees historical pictures of the hotel: work crews during construction; the first limbo contest; fishermen standing next to sailfish and marlin. Near the pictures, Julie sees the globe. It's spinning slowly. Julie hesitates, then walks toward the globe. It stops spinning. She looks down at it.
JULIE: Leave him alone. Tyrell holds up battered Estes
TYRELL: Here's youre killer
ESTES: We found your voodoo crap
WILL: We found your voodoo crap
ESTES: They shake Estes, finally giving him a chance to speak.
JULIE: Let him go. I believe him.
KARLA: Come on, Julie. You saw his room.
ESTES: I haven't hurt anyone.I stole those things to help you. To protect you.
JULIE: He's telling the truth. He could've easily killed me. He didn't. Look, we didn't even answer the radio question right.This whole thing was a setup.
KARLA: What do you mean?
JULIE: Rio isn't the capital of Brazil. It was the wrong answer. Sorry, we lose.
TYRELL: ( starting to lose it ) You've got all these theories but where is he? Where? Where's your fisherman killer?
JULIE: I don't know.
TYRELL: ( losing it ) You never do.The guy at the nightclub, the body in your room last night. Little notes that only mean something to you. How do we even know you're not the one behind this Estes steps forward
JULIE: ( to Tyrell ) How do we know you're not?
ESTES: ( to Julie ) I know who you're talking about. He used to work here at the hotel. ( beat ) And I've seen him around again. Out in the woods by the orchard. They look at Estes.Is he telling the truth?
ESTES: I can't remeber his name, but I don't forget a face. I can show you. They stare a beat
WILL: How do we know you're not setting us up?
ESTES: Where else you gonna go, son? They look to the office, the gym.The sense of death surrounding I know I don't want to stay in We'll be better off in the open. If we stick together, maybe we can kill this creep for good.
KARLA: I know I don't want to stay in We'll be better off in the open. If we stick together, maybe we can kill this creep for good.
JULIE: We'll be better off in the open. If we stick together, maybe we can kill this creep for good.
TYRELL: Show us. They begin moving for the door.
PAULSEN: What the. Paulsen slowly gets up. He cracks the door open. Ray stands silhouetted against the rain.
RAY: I need to get to Tower Bay Island. Paulsen senses something isn't right.
PAULSEN: We're closed. Ray pushes his way in
RAY: I need to get there, now. Paulsen looks at him standing there drenched.
PAULSEN: Did you happen to notice what's going on outside? Ray pulls out the gun and points it at Paulsen
RAY: I'm not looking for a weather report, I'm looking for a boat. So which one's yours?
ESTES: He worked here for many years. He had a nice family. A pretty wife and two little ones. A boy and a girl. They'd be about your age, now. They continue along the path. Estes looks at them in the dark, slowing for just a second. One day his wife went missing. Maid found blood all over the honeymoon suite Room 201. There are strange NOISES out in the woods. Eventually, they found her body. Pieces. A leg in the swamp. An arm washed up on Three Mile Beach. And the head they found much later. A huge branch is blown from a tree and comes crashing down through the underbrush, scaring them. Estes calmly steps around it. Did he do it?
JULIE: ( softly ) Did he do it?
ESTES: People say she was running around on him. People say he caught her in bed with other men. People say a lot of He disappeared, taking the two small ones with him. At least they were never found. The winding path leads to a small orchard. They hang on his every We're here. In the center of the orchard is a cemetery. They move off the path into the safety of the woods. There seems to be activity around the place. It's silent and eerie. Julie stares, fascinated. She is slowly drawn toward the house. Karla grabs for her arm.
KARLA: Be careful, Julie.
JULIE: I've got to see. She leads, they follow, circling the house. Julie rounds a corner of the shack and stops. She sees
TWO TOMBSTONES: The first stone reads: SARAH WILLIS ( birth/death ) The second stone reads: SUSIE WILLIS ( birth/death ) Beyond them
JULIE JAMES: born September 6, 1979 died July 4, 1998 "A Lying Whore" is scratched with a knife.
KARLA: ( realizing ) .Today's July fourth. Will goes to comfort Julie
JULIE: I'm not dying on this island, Do you hear me? Julie shouts into the darkness. You want me, Ben Willis? Come and get me. I'm right here. She kicks over her headstone My grave stays empty! She looks defiantly down the path.
KARLA: Julie, the boats are gone, the phones are down. There's no way off this place.
JULIE: Then, we fight Will looks around. Estes is gone.
WILL: Where'd Estes go?
TYRELL: What is up with that weirdo?
WILL: I'll go find him.
KARLA: Why? He can't help us.
WILL: He's probably the only one who can help us.
TYRELL: I'll come with you.
KARLA: Are you crazy? We're not staying here on our own.
WILL: It's okay. He couldn't have gone far. I'll catch up with you later. Will disappears into the darkness.
KARLA: Maybe we should just wait here? Hide in a tree?
TYRELL: I'm not hiding up no tree. I'm with her. Let's arm ourselves to the teeth and kick this psycho's 69 INT. HOTEL KITCHEN - NIGHT They move cautiously into the kitchen. Blue emergency lights flicker above them. It's a big room with plenty of nooks and crannies for somebody to be hiding in. Tyrell picks up a couple of different knives. He hefts them in his What I need is a gun. Not a steak Karla grabs a paring knife You gonna clean vegetables? You gonna stir-fry? You need something that'll get his attention. He picks up a huge butcher's knife and cuts the air with it. He then roughly empties other drawers looking for more weapons. Karla looks to Julie, something on her mind. Julie catches the look.
TYRELL: What I need is a gun. Not a steak Karla grabs a paring knife You gonna clean vegetables? You gonna stir-fry? You need something that'll get his attention. He picks up a huge butcher's knife and cuts the air with it. He then roughly empties other drawers looking for more weapons. Karla looks to Julie, something on her mind. Julie catches the look.
KARLA: ( hurt ) I'm your best friend.You could have told me the truth about what happened. I would've understood.
JULIE: ( sad ) Karla, I just wanted the whole thing to be over. I didn't want to involve anybody else.
KARLA: It's too late for that. Julie steps over to Karla.
JULIE: I'm so sorry. I brought this on everyone. It's my fault. Tyrell picks up on the mood swing. He moves closer to them. He's Forget that. You didn't do nothing. This fisherman's a piece of scum. I should've been listening to you. I'm sorry. Julie smiles for a second. Now, let's take a look at the You think that's a good place to I don't know, but I'm starving.
TYRELL: Forget that. You didn't do nothing. This fisherman's a piece of scum. I should've been listening to you. I'm sorry. Julie smiles for a second. Now, let's take a look at the You think that's a good place to I don't know, but I'm starving.
KARLA: You think that's a good place to I don't know, but I'm starving.
TYRELL: I don't know, but I'm starving.
WILL: Hey Estes. Estes? Where'd you go? Estes doesn't answer right away he keeps his back to Will. You abandoning us? How come you didn't tell us you had a boat? Estes picks up the boat's oar. He speaks low, almost inaudibly.
ESTES: This has to end. Now.
WILL: What ? Estes swings the oar, cracking Will's head hard.
TYRELL: Steel door.Food.Perfect. He starts looking for something to eat CLANK. There's a soft CLATTERING from somewhere in the room. Everyone freezes, staring into the darkness. Tyrell puts a finger to his lips, then creeps down an aisle, listening. There's nothing but SILENCE. He moves toward the first aisle.He jumps out. The aisle is empty.
TYRELL: It's just a
KARLA: A DARK FIGURE jumps down from the shelves. Tyrell puts his arms up
TYRELL: ( yelling for mercy ) Don't kill me
JULIE: Wait, it's Nancy Nancy, the bartender steps out of the shadows brandishing her rolling 73 INT. HOTEL KITCHEN - NIGHT Tyrell stands at the sink, where Karla holds a towel full of ice to his head. Nancy, the bartender, looks on apologetically.
NANCY: I'm sorry, but you could've been the one doing all of this
TYRELL: And so could you crazy fool.
NANCY: You stumbled into my hiding place.
TYRELL: Must have missed the sign.
NANCY: Excuse me, but this island didn't have a murder rate until you people showed up. I've never seen a dead body before.
JULIE: Get used to it.
NANCY: Who's doing this?
TYRELL: ( friendly ) Don't even get her started.It's a long, long story and you probably wouldn't believe a word of it. Tyrell moves as he talks, fed up and exhasted. He crosses past the stove and under a huge hanging rack of pots and pans. I mean, all I know for sure is this is the worst vacation of my life. I'm tired, and I'm hungry, and I personally haven't seen one damn psycho killer.
THE FISHERMAN: is in the vent above the stove. He stares out at them from the hood of his slicker. Ben jumps from the range onto the floor. Karla is in shock. Julie yanks her and they flee. As she goes, Julie picks up
A BOAT: drifting on the fast sea. The words "Tower Bay" are painted on the side. Ray pulls alongside and discovers the boat is empty. He reaches for the radio.
RAY: ( into radio ) Come in.This is Summer Breeze requesting emergency assistance for Tower Bay island. I repeat.This is Summer Breeze. Ray guns the boat away.
NANCY: I know where we can hide.
NANCY: Give me a boost up Julie helps Nancy reach a pull cord in the ceiling.
BEN WILLIS: enters the hallway and continues toward them.
JULIE: There's no way to lock it.
KARLA: What do we do? From below comes LAUGHTER. There's a tug on the hatch, cracking it open. The girls pull it back shut, but it's hard to get a grip. There's more tugging, the hatch bending down; they can see Ben. Then, the rope SNAPS. The hatch slams shut.
NANCY: There's no way to grip this thing. Suddenly the STEEL TIP of the HOOK pokes through the crack.It wriggles around.Turning.And begins to pull the hatch down. They try to hold it.But it's no use. They let go and jump away. The attic is lit by a cathedral window. It's crosshatched with wooden beams and pink insulation.
NANCY: Watch your step. THUNK! Karla's foot goes through a gap between two beams.
KARLA'S FOOT: dangles through the ceiling.
BEN: ( re: the mirror ) You'd be amazed by what you'd see. My wife with every man on the island, for example. ( to Julie ) And you, sexy.I loved watching you.
JULIE: You sick freak. Ben suddenly whirls and lunges at Karla. He grabs her, but they both lose their balance, teetering for a moment on one of the beams, before They CRASH through the mirror
KARLA: ( to herself ) Oh, god, no She's almost to the support when
JULIE: ( screaming ) Ben turns and looks up at Nancy and Julie. Then, he sprints from the Julie and Nancy duck back into the attic.
BIRDS: fly up and out of the hole she's made in the roof. Karla tries to stand and her leg gives way. She tests her knee
KARLA: Karla starts hobbling. She reaches the door it's locked from the other side. There is a thick glass window set in the middle of the door. The cranes startle again, something upsetting them. Karla spins to look. Nothing.
KARLA: It's locked! Nancy sees a KEY RING by the door.
NANCY: It's gotta be one of these. Nancy tries the first of many keys. Something catches Julie's eye. She moves in for a closer look. Her eyes go wide
JULIE: ( terrified ) He's inside. Karla spins. Sees him. Her terrified scream blends with the cranes, now SHRIEKING VIOLENTLY.
KARLA: Please! Hurry!
JULIE: Come on.
KARLA: ( frantic ) Nancy fumbles for the right key but the lock is old.
JULIE: ( crying ) It's jammed! The key is stuck.
NANCY: ( crying ) It's jammed! The key is stuck.
KARLA: ( through glass ) Come on!! She's running out of time. Julie sees a FIRE AXE encased in the glass safety box.
JULIE: ( determined ) No way!! Julie smashes the glass with her elbow. Grabs the axe.
JULIE: ( to Nancy ) Julie hammers the door with the axe. Wood splinters. Glass cracks. Ben is almost on top of Karla now. Julie swings. The axe breaks the glass, pulls the frame out. Julie drops the axe. They grab Karla. Pull her through. Ben swings. The hook rips Karla's shoe, but Julie and Nancy pull her Julie and Ben are face to face. Julie has the axe in her hands. She stares him down.
JULIE: Come on, gimme a shot Ben rips off his hook, eyeing Julie.
KARLA: ( shouting ) Julie, come on. They flee. Ben tries the door, realizes it had locked behind him. He can't fit through the circular window. He throws his shoulder against the door. And again. And again. The door frame starts to give
NANCY: It's over there. They struggle together to open the heavy door.
KARLA: I don't know.
JULIE: Come on, you can make it. Julie gets in, pulling Karla in behind her. They pull the door closed behind them.
NANCY: There's a light somewhere.
KARLA: I'm right here. Grab my hand.
JULIE: I'm right here. Grab my hand.
NANCY: This place has emergency power. Just ease you way down the stairs and I'll find the light.
JULIE: Okay. I'm at the bottom. Karla, just get my hand.
KARLA: I'm holding your hand!
JULIE: No, you're not.
KARLA: Nancy pulls the chain on an overhead bulb. The lights go on, THE DEAD CORPSES of Brooks, Derrick, Olga, and Titus whose hand Karla is holding. The women SCREAM! They muddle together, trying to collect themselves. Suddenly, there is a POUNDING on the iron door. They SCREAM. Then, Julie remembers the axe. She motions the others to stay back
JULIE: All right The iron hatch is slowly opening. Julie gets the axe into possition
WILL: pokes his head through. He's clutching a piece of wood as a weapon.
WILL: It's you guys, thank god. Is everyone okay? They are ecstatic to see him. They bound up the concrete stairs
KARLA: Help's here. Help's here.
WILL: Come on. We're gonna be okay.
JULIE: Did you get help? Will shakes his head. He's walking woozily. What happened?
WILL: Estes came after me with a gaffing He's in it with Willis?
JULIE: He's in it with Willis?
WILL: I guess so. Julie points out that his chest and stomach are covered in blood, too.
JULIE: Your stomach, you're hurt Will looks down, clutches himself, and keeps moving.
WILL: When I was coming back I saw your slicker friend looking for you guys down by the water. Let's hurry and get inside.
JULIE: Oh, my god, you're bleeding to She looks back towards Nancy We need a first-aid kit.
NANCY: ( already moving ) I saw one in the lobby. Karla starts, then hesitates. Will moans, looks at her. I'll come with you.
WILL: You'll be okay. It's over. Karla and Nancy rush from the bar. Julie looks tenderly at Will. He looks back at her. She pulls some hair off his forehead. He smiles Will, just hold on. We'll get you fixed up.
JULIE: Will, just hold on. We'll get you fixed up.
NANCY: Look up there. I'll look over here. Karla looks behind the desk. Nancy is searching the shelves.
JULIE: You've got blood everywhere, but I can't find the wound. Will takes her head in his hands, looks her in the eye.
WILL: That's because it's not my blood. The slow change in Julie as she realizes. She starts to run. Will roughly grabs her. It's time you woke up, Julie. His voice switches to that of a familiar radio disk jockey.
MAGIC GETAWAY!: He drags her out of the bar.
ANOTHER HAND: reaches over and lands on top of her hand. She jumps and sees Estes right behind her. Karla SCREAMS.
ESTES: Will.He's in on it. He's Suddenly Estes's expression changes to surprise, and
BEN WILLIS: standing there holding a spear gun. Estes topples over on top of Nancy, pinning her underneath his dying, convulsing body. Nancy struggles to get loose.
NANCY: Help me. Karla rushes to Nancy. She tugs on her arm, trying to pull her free. The fisherman strides toward them. He raises his hook. He swings at Karla's head.
KARLA: Come on, come on. Ben tries to free his hook hand. Karla looks up at him. He calmly puts his foot onto Estes's back and steps down with all of his weight, THE SPEAR TIP deep into Nancy who expires with a sigh. Damn you. Karla, blind with rage, attacks the fisherman. He kicks out with a boot and sends Karla fying onto
WILL: Look at the bright side, Jules. We finally get to spend some quality time together. Julie's trying to get to the knife she's stashed in her back pocket.
JULIE: Why are you doing this to me?
WILL: Me, me, me. It's always about you. I'm having bad dreams. I can't sleep. I'm not doing well in school. I'm having trouble with my boyfriend.
JULIE: I trusted you.
WILL: We had a connection, didn't we? I can tell you one thing, though. Ray didn't trust me. He was right. He's dead, but he was right. They come into the orchard. They are covered in mud. Julie stumbles again. Goes to her knees. Works the knife free and slashes up at Will. She slices him across the face. He steps back, feels the blood. What'd you have to do that for? There is a creepy pause. Will stares at his own blood. She catches her Then suddenly, Will knocks the knife from her hand. He lifts her by the hair. Enraged, he puches her in the face. She goes down.
JULIE: Why? Come on, Julie. Think. You'll get it. Will Benson Ben's son. He shoves her. She falls backward into the arms of Ben Willis. Hi, Dad. Julie WAILS, struggling wildly in Ben's grasp.
WILL: Why? Come on, Julie. Think. You'll get it. Will Benson Ben's son. He shoves her. She falls backward into the arms of Ben Willis. Hi, Dad. Julie WAILS, struggling wildly in Ben's grasp.
JULIE: That's my boy. Ben holds her back to look at her. He throws back the hood of his slicker. We see his face clearly for the first time.
OMIGOD: That's my boy. Ben holds her back to look at her. He throws back the hood of his slicker. We see his face clearly for the first time.
BEN: That's my boy. Ben holds her back to look at her. He throws back the hood of his slicker. We see his face clearly for the first time.
JULIE: No, no, no Ben pulls off his hook and strokes Julie's cheek with his stump.
BEN: Shush, now. No more screaming.No more running. Time to die. Let go of her! Now! Ben and Will spin to see
RAY: like the hero from a western, step out from behind a tree. Ben starts to laugh. Will joins him.
WILL: You gotta be kiddin' me.
BEN: What're you gonna do, boy? Call us names?
RAY: Let her go. Now. Ray raises the .38 caliber handgun. He COCKS the hammer. Ben doesn't let go of Julie. Lightning fast, he slaps his hook back on and gets the point to Julie's neck.
BEN: Think about it, boy. You're no That's my job. Ray hesitates, his finger on the trigger. He does look scared. Ben takes a step toward Ray. Then another, pushing Julie in front of him. Will moves closer, too.
RAY: Stop right there. Ray's finger squeezing down the trigger.
BEN: You don't have it in you. Suddenly, Will dives for Ray. Ray gets a shot off, tagging Ben in the shoulder. The gun goes flying. Julie spins and hits Ben in the face. He knocks her into her own grave.Mud begins to slide in on her. She tries to scramble out. Will and Ray wrestle, punching each other repeatedly in the face. Will has Ray down and his hands around his kneck. He looks him in the We haven't missed you down here, Ray boy. I got to know Julie real Will gets the better of Ray. He's stronger. He yanks him up choking him. Ray is begging to check out. Think of all the things I'm gonna do to her. Dad, finish him. Ben charges toward Ray's back. He pulls back the hook for a roundhouse At the last second, Ray dips, elbows Will.
WILL: We haven't missed you down here, Ray boy. I got to know Julie real Will gets the better of Ray. He's stronger. He yanks him up choking him. Ray is begging to check out. Think of all the things I'm gonna do to her. Dad, finish him. Ben charges toward Ray's back. He pulls back the hook for a roundhouse At the last second, Ray dips, elbows Will.
THE HOOK: goes straight into Will's chest. The fisherman has hooked his own son. Father and son make final eye contact, the son's eyes go blank. Ben stares in shock as Will expires, falling back into the mud. Ben SCREAMS in rage. Ray is tired. THWACK. Ben begins beating Ray. He puches him. He straight-arms him with the hook. He knocks him again and again and Ray is beaten, giving Ben has Ray against a tombstone. The hook slowly inches toward his The hook is touching the eyelid
BEN: Gonna blind you first. The hook is touching the eyelid
A GUNSHOT: rings out. A look of wonder crosses Ben's face. He slowly turns away from Ray.
JULIE: stands behind him holding the gun.
JULIE: BLAM. BLAM. BLAM. She empties the gun into Ben, who flies backward into Julie's grave. As he tumbles, Ben releases the dirt stacked beside the grave.
BEN: You can't kill me. His face is completely covered. His mouth still moving. I'll always be with you. The dirt covers him. It continues to fill, until just the
KARLA: stops in the middle of her kamikaze attack, knife held out.
KARLA: Oh, god, it's you
JULIE: You're okay. Thank god.
KARLA: Is he? They nod. They go to her jubilant group hug time. They compose You know, it's true what they say about package vacations.You get what you pay for. Now, how about we get off this piece of crap island. The first rays of the morning sun appear. Ray looks adoringly at Julie as the beautific light catches her face. Ray kisses her. She kisses him back. They are silhouetted against a beautiful orange sunrise.
JULIE: ( smiling ) We don't have to tell anyone it rained the whole time. It can just be our little secret. The three of them throw their arms around each other's shoulders and they start walking for the beach as.
NOTHING: She creeps down the hallway toward her kitchen. She pauses The dark figure almost knocks into her. She SCREAMS. It's Ray. He's holding a disemboweled toaster.
JULIE: Ray.what are you doing?
RAY: ( toaster ) Oh.it's not working right. You're home early. ( sees she's shaken ) Did I scare you?
JULIE: Never do that again.
RAY: ( tender ) Hey I didn't know you were here. It's okay. ( beat ) We got the refrigerator in. Come She sees the love in his eyes. She hugs him.
JULIE: I love it here.
RAY: It's gonna be great.
RAY: ( seeing her ) Checking the locks again?
JULIE: You know me to well. Julie smile and walks to the bedroom.
NOTHING: She looks around the room.
JULIE: What is my problem? She sits down on the bed. We see her bare feet from under the bed. She smiles, relaxes. She looks in the mirror leaning against the wall. Something has caught her eye. She freezes. She turns slowly back to the reflection in the mirror. She sees the glint of steel
THE END: Writers : Trey Callaway
