SHOOTING DRAFT: FADE IN: INT. PASSAGEWAY - NIGHT The CAMERA briskly retreats as FORTY, HIGHLY CHARGED, ATTRACTIVE, YOUNG PEOPLE march towards it. Each side of the frame is black as this troupe of young actors moves up the middle, everyone talking, grinning, squealing,. everyone having the "high" of their lives.
FRANTIC ACTRESS: I can't hear over this shhing.
TV CRITIC: .a play about guess what? That's right, young people.
ON MATT: He stands next to a ruggedly handsome and extremely nauseous
HANDSOME CONTEMPORARY: I can't look.
MATT: Good idea, let's not.
HANDSOME CONTEMPORARY: How can we not listen to this?
MATT: We'll know all we need to from the
HANDSOME CONTEMPORARY: ( to dancer ) He didn't like it?
DIRECTOR: Don't worry. He doesn't count. We'll just wait for the papers.
MATT: Hey, no matter what this review says, the play was a great experience for
MATT: ( again ) I mean, it is about process, right?
HANDSOME CONTEMPORARY: Matt's right. Good Lord, it is what we're alive for.
MATT: You've just got to be tougher than Tougher than this?!?
BETH: ( incredulous ) Tougher than this?!?
DIRECTOR: I took it all down over the phone. It's quite bad. And, unfortunately, it's very, very long. I've got a broken heart and writers' cramp. He's nuts.
MATT: He's nuts.
DIRECTOR: He savages everyone.
MATT: I don't want to hear anymore. Let's Except you, Matt.
DIRECTOR: Except you, Matt.
HANDSOME CONTEMPORARY: ( fiercely to Matt ) You filthy bastard.
BETH: ( drawing closer to Matt ) What did he say?
MATT: Don't read it.
OTHER ACTOR: Oh, please. You can't wait to run out of here, buy a flashlight, and then go into some dark alley and drool over every word.
MATT: ( truthfully ) You're wrong. I'm maybe relieved and curious. That's it.
BETH: ( wildly exasperated ) What did they say about him?
DIRECTOR: ( reading ) .'in the midst of this delirium of Don't. This divisive crap won't.
MATT: Don't. This divisive crap won't.
DIRECTOR: ( again ) '.one actor, rather miraculously, manages to provide passion and, yes, truth. Matt Hobbs, in the supporting role of Jesus, manages to touch the heart long after you thought it numbed by boredom.'
MATT: ( to his colleagues with sincerity )
BETH: Will you get in herefor God's sake?
MATT: ( into phone ) Come on, Ma, how could I show up tonight when my union is boycotting the Emmys? Look, I have to hang up.
MATT: ( into phone ) I gotta go. Watch!
TV VOICE: ( on TV ) .and Matt Hobbs for 'Caine Mutiny Court Martial'. And the winner is Powers Boothe for 'JonestownStory of a Massacre.'
BETH: Shit! Fuck! Shit!
MATT: He was good.
BETH: ( again ) Shit! Shit! Shit! Fuck! Shit! Look, he even showed up.
MATT: That took courage. I wonder if they send you something for just being Of all the pathetic questions.
BETH: Of all the pathetic questions.
MATT: ( sharply ) Why are you being so damn foul?
BETH: We've been going back and forth on our status for so long. I was hoping that if you won, it might mean something for us.
MATT: Look, Beth. the only.
BETH: Please go fast. I can't take you dragging it out.
MATT: ( a bit faster ) The only reason I haven't.
BETH: I promised myself I wouldn't be so bossy. Take your time!! Was that bossy too?
MATT: ( persisting ) The only thing I have against getting married is that it might not be fair because I'm going to stay with acting forever and you know how erratic the money's been and there's no resolve.
BETH: Do I get to vote? I'm going to tell you something I never told you before. Your feeling towards your work is one of the things I love most about Maybe the most.
MATT: Maybe the most.
BETH: Maybe the most.
MATT: Hey, then we have no problem here. Marry me.
BETH: Stinker, I almost gave up on you.
MATT: I was just worried whether I could make you happy.
MATT: ( extremely hyper ) Everything's okay. Great. She's six or eight pounds even. Oh, God. Nothing like it. I'll tell you something amazing. They really reach right into her stomach and pull out this baby. It's not just a rumor. God. I understand the expression 'mind blowing' for the first time. It means something so wonderful happens that the top of your head comes off and your brain pops out. Part of it was terrifying, the baby was turned and they couldn't budge her. I kept looking at this one woman doctor's eyes. And when Jeannie finally came out, this doctor and I each wiped away a tear at the exact same time, caught ourselves doing it, and then laughed together at the same time. Nothing can prepare you for it. You know why you're alive.
MATT: How you doing? What's wrong?
BETH: My mother said you were flirting with the doctor during the delivery.
MATT: Could you get her, honey? I have that big reading tomorrow.
BETH: No, I have a lot to do tomorrow, too. I have to borrow on our Christmas Club, I have to.
MATT: Don't worry about money anymore. I didn't want to tell you, because it may sound a little strange when I say it out loud. You know me, I'm never that cocky. But I'm going to get 'Spider Woman'. It's me or Raul and I've never been so sure. It's weird, but I just know it. I do.
BETH: ( broadly ) Boy, am I reassured. What good news. Isn't that a load off?
MATT: I am gonna get this part, Beth.
BETH: I can't stand this anymore.
MATT'S POV: A tube of tooth bleach. CLOSE ON THE DIRECTIONS, then:
ON MATT: Bleaching his teeth. finishing. smiling in the mirror. This is the bleached smile of feartrue fearthe awful state of having lost your way. The phone rings. Matt clears his voice before answering.
MATT: ( into phone ) Hello. Hi, Beth. I'm glad you finally returned my call. What are you so mad about? ( again, into phone )
MATT: ( again, into phone ) You know what? I'm being a sort of gutless wonder here. I'm yelling back at you because I'm embarrassed. I won't be able to take the kid when I said. Why don't you listen for a
MATT: Beth, I know exactly how long it's been and I feel strange as hell not seeing her but this isn't a choice. I'm broke. It's the driest spell of my life. I'm not saying it's your problem, but it's no place for a six- year-old. What can I do? The only full-time job I seem to have is not showing how scared I am. What? No, that's not something I said before. Well, thanks.
MATT: ( again, into phone ) Beth, Hey. hey. Never mind, I'll do it.
MATT: ( again, to himself ) I must get work. I will take anything. I must get work. I must not be embarrassed by these pep talks to
OLDER ACTRESS: Sure I'll tell you. Favor first. Do a nice middle-aged lady a favor. A fair trade. tell you what you want to know in return for a. .a pity fu. .the height of ego. You think your he-manness can make me get on that elevator even though I'm phobic?. I CAN'T GET ON THAT ELEVATOR. I don't care if. they catch us. DO YOU
SINGING ACTRESSES: .can't get on the elevator. can't get on the elevator. even if you make me. even if you make me. Do you get it?. do you get it?.
TWO ACTRESSES: Standing near each otherexchange glares as they break each other's concentration and move apart. THEIR MOVEMENT SERVING as our gateway to DANCING. The SONG "MAKE BELIEVE" enters fully now and builds in intensity, reaching a repeated phrase, as we move to Matt and he enters the building, thereby cutting off the song.
ON MATT: As the SONG continues in intensity, Matt enters the building at the end of a repeated phrase cutting off the song as we move to:
MATT: Hi. See, I did recognize you. You didn't have to wait for me.
CATHY: Well, I wanted to introduce you. As if knowing me would help.
CATHY: It's a ridiculously awful movie.
MATT: Well, challenge. I wasn't sure you'd remember me. let alone help.
CATHY: Stop. You're good. I'm doing them a favor by getting you in.
MATT: Well, that's a fresh slant.
CATHY: Claire, this is Matt Hobbs. Hi. Sorry. We're running behind. Please forgive us.
CLAIRE: Hi. Sorry. We're running behind. Please forgive us.
CLAIRE: ( fiercely ) Matt Hobbs? Matt Hobbs!
ON MATT: Going over his lines. Hearing his name, he rises. Claire gestures him in.
MARTIN: This is Matt Hobbs. This is John Earl McAlpine, the director.
MCALPINE: Good to see you.
MARTIN: .and Burke Adler, the producer.
BURKE: So, what have you been doing with .the last few years?
MATT: ( to Burke ) I'm real bad at interviews, so, if you don't mind, I'd really prefer to just read first.
BURKE: That's the way you want to do it?
MATT: Maybe we shouldn't even read. I'll just take your word that you're good.
BURKE: Maybe we shouldn't even read. I'll just take your word that you're good.
BURKE: No. I'm serious. There's all different ways. Did you know Woody Allen never reads actors? He just looks at them, feels around a little and then decides who he wants. That's his way. Doesn't hear them do a line. I also have a way. What I do is interview first then readmaybe do it all over again the next day. I call up people the actor has worked withcheck him out. If he's famous, I do an opinion survey to test how much people like him. If he's not famous, I put him on tape and show it to everyone I can grab. I believe in screen tests; I believe in replacing if the dailies are bad, in cutting people out if the previews aren't there. Because I'm not doing movies for theaters where they serve cappucino in the lobby. I'm doing popcorn movies. You want to know what I like? Come to my house, look at my lamps. you won't find it in my movies. In my movies, you'll find out what I know. I know how to do detail. What I don't know, I discover. Yesterday we finished mixing a moviethe last scene is in a field of windmills which blows up and all the blades of these windmills slice through the air, one of which hits a four-story tank of propane gas. A humongous explosion scene. I kept on saying 'louder', and they finally said to me they couldn't go louder without distortion. We went louder. We had to discover a thing, a filter, but we went louder. I don't question doing these things. I do them. So if you want to know if it's okay to do it differentlynot to talkto just read first. I say. Ask himhe's the director.
JOHN EARL: Okay, let's do it. Do you have any They only gave me these two pages. I'd like to give this my best shot. So if I could read the script and come back.
BURKE: Okay, let's do it. Do you have any They only gave me these two pages. I'd like to give this my best shot. So if I could read the script and come back.
MATT: They only gave me these two pages. I'd like to give this my best shot. So if I could read the script and come back.
BURKE: This part works tomorrow.
MATT: Oh. Who will I be reading with?
MATT: ( from his chair ) Can I read from here?
BURKE: I want you to do it wherever you're comfortable, but I'd prefer it if you were comfortable standing up.
JOHN EARL: Time for my buns to have visitors.
BURKE: ( to Matt ) Go ahead.
MATT: Go ahead? The director left.
BURKE: That's okay, he trusts me, uh. And we're just doing the first page.
MARTIN: ( cueing him badly ) 'Okay, darling Harry, here it is. If someone were breaking up with me, I'd like it short and sweet. What about you?'
MATT: ( readingshowing pain ) 'Incredibly drawn out.'
MARTIN: 'I can't take care of you right now. What am I, your mother?'
MATT: ( intense ) 'Well, what am I? Your duck?'
MATT: ( again ) 'We've been together two years and you act like all you're doing is blowing away some feathers. So what I'm asking.'
BURKE: You didn't do the quack.
MATT: The stage direction says for him to I know, but why would he quack when someone's breaking up with him?
BURKE: The stage direction says for him to I know, but why would he quack when someone's breaking up with him?
MATT: I know, but why would he quack when someone's breaking up with him?
BURKE: Hopefully because it's funny.
MATT: This isn't a comedy.
BURKE: Then we're in trouble, because they're already fall down laughing at the teaser-trailer in fifty-two hundred and thirty theaters.
MATT: A comedy? I think I have to make an adjustment
CATHY: ( into phone ) Hi. I just finished. I'll have my coverage right over. It's past derivative. it's photocopying. What a hoot! You're kidding, right? There is truly active bidding for this book? Really? 2.3 million? Okay, see you.
INSERT: The pen is poised.
ON CATHY: Her soul is poised. A beat and she allows "I DO NOT RECOMMEND" to stand, the source music theme"CHARIOTS OF FIRE" coincidentally celebrates this considerable act of heroism. Cathy takes the sheet and walks to the door.
CATHY: I had some problems.
CATHY: Well, you know, it's a little So it has to be cast right.
CATHY: ( stung ) Hey. It's not like I didn't recommend
CATHY: How'd it go?
MATT: I didn't get it. He did say something about wanting me back.
CATHY: Good. His saver is he means what he Yeah, I just wanted to say thanks.
MATT: Yeah, I just wanted to say thanks.
MATT: .and I wanted to ask you out.
CATHY: ( turns ) For when?
MATT: Any time.
CATHY: I never know when I'm free. It sounds like I'm just. but it's Okay. Thanks again. I felt funny Well, don't please.
MATT: Okay. Thanks again. I felt funny Well, don't please.
CATHY: Well, don't please.
MATT: I meant asking you to get me the Oh. well, don't please.
CATHY: Oh. well, don't please.
CATHY: Don't be sad.
CATHY: Oh, I was auditing this acting course and he filled in teaching one night. He did a scene himself and he was awesome. For some reason, he can't get arrested.
MATT'S POV: Burke Adler, standing at a street corner, palpably in pain. He's trying to rein in his emotions, sucking in huge gulps of air. and, then, a wave of emotion gets the better of him as he looks at his watch. A sob escapes himshocked that he's so close to tears on a public street corner, he battles for control. another sob as he looks to the heavens.
ON MATT: A split second to consider, then he's out of his car.
BURKE: Oh, God. why? Why?. What am I going to do?
MATT: Hey. Hey! HEY!!
ON BURKE: Totally fucked-up, wild-eyed. As he witnesses his own state.
BURKE: Look at me. You'd think I was a I hired this kid as a production assistant. His father's a business manager. a few good clients.
MATT: What happened?
BURKE: He's been driving for me two weeks. all he has to do is pick me up on time. he's twenty minutes late and I have a test screening in the valley. Everybody's gone from the office.
MATT: Is that it? You need a lift?
BURKE: I'm right over here.
MATT: I'm right over here.
MATT'S POV: Burke, berating the YOUNG DRIVER. Matt pauses, awed by the wild gesticulatingthe few screamed words.
BURKE: ( to Matt ) Let's get moving; you said you'd give me a lift.
MATT: What the hell are you talking about? Not in your car. I've got my own.
BURKE: I'll give you a hundred and twenty dollars to take me. and it will still be a favor. Get out. Come on. Please. This is very important.
YOUNG MAN: ( final plea ) A guy got shot on the freeway. Traffic's tied up.
BURKE: You should leave time for that kind of thing.
MATT: What do you need me for? Don't you Yeah, I drive. I don't like to look for parking.
BURKE: ( a mumble ) Yeah, I drive. I don't like to look for parking.
BURKE: ( explaining ) Yoga shit. I feel like barbed wire. I don't know if you keep track, but I'm the sixth independent producer ever to have two big pictures scheduled for Christmas, and tonight we're testing the first one for the first time. You get it?
MATT: Yeah. It's important to you.
BURKE: ( laughing at the understatement ) Yes. I don't think I would have put it that way. but, yes.
BURKE'S POV: Our first view of NAN MULHANNEY; middle-aged and pragmatic, yet extraordinarily naive. She's a scientist of sorts monitoring the tastes and feelings of Americans, first in Washington and now here. Though she just had a very rough hour or so, she bends down to smile at Burke.
BURKE: Keep driving. She runs the test screenings. Very smart. Very. She has a real case on me, but so far I've been keeping it in the bank.
BURKE: Go very slow.
NAN: We're 34 minutes late. The studio is appropriately wild. people are beginning to leave. but I knew how upset you'd be if we started without Yeah. Thanks.
BURKE: ( distantly ) Yeah. Thanks.
NAN: How is he tonight?
MATT: I don't know him, so I have nothing to compare it to.
NAN: Well, how would you say he is, anyway?
MATT: Not quite himself.
BURKE: Let them in.
NAN: The name of the picture you'll be seeing is 'Ground Zero'. There may be some scratches. some of the colors may be off, there are no final titles, and it has not been finally mixed for sound, and the music is temp, that means temporary.
BURKE: I'm glad you came yourself instead of sending your staff. I wouldn't be surprised if tonight's screening is a monster. Could happen, right?
BURKE: I wouldn't be surprised if tonight's screening is a monster. Could happen, right?
STUDIO HEAD: He moves back to Matt and Nan at the rear of the audience.
BURKE: He moves back to Matt and Nan at the rear of the audience.
BURKE: ( to Matt ) Eisner just said he thinks the screening will be a monster.
NAN: Please, God, let tonight give him
NAN: We're short two card-counters, can you two help out?
NAN: Males, fifteen and under.
HERO: Sorry to bust your chops.
NAN: If you'll just stay in your seats a few moments and fill out these cards for us.
ON AISLES: Matt and others handing out cards with pencils attached. Folks filling them out. As an ADOLESCENT MALE fills it out; PREVIEW CARD FILLS THE SCREEN as we view LIVE ACTION THROUGH
GROUP CAPTAIN: Who has young males? Young women? Older males?. Older males?.
GROUP CAPTAIN: Older males. older males?
GROUP CAPTAIN: ( again ) Older males. over 25?
NAN: How long since you've seen your A little over two years. My wife insisted on moving back to the Midwestthen I was in the Philippines on the mini-series and.
MATT: A little over two years. My wife insisted on moving back to the Midwestthen I was in the Philippines on the mini-series and.
NAN: ( suddenly and loudly ) Oh, please. It's one thing being a son-of-a-bitch, but you don't have to be a stupid son-of-a-bitch. People move heaven and earth to see their kids. I don't care if she moved to Pluto, it's abandonment.
MATT: ( a pause, then ) Hey, we just met.
NAN: ( realizing ) Oh. Sorry.
BURKE: Make a guess how we did.
NAN: It wouldn't mean anything.
BURKE: Nothing good that happens can make it worth feeling the way I do now.
OLDER WOMAN: Excuse me.
BURKE: Who the hell are you? This is private.
OLD LADY: I'm Mr. Eisner's mother.
BURKE: Oh. Can I get you some water?
OLD LADY: No, thank you.
FULL SHOT: Everyone, all the studio and Popcorn staff, is drawn to Nan.
ON NAN: As she glances at the figures.
STUDIO HEAD: I don't need the numbers. I loved
NAN: Burke, ninety in the top two boxes.
TO BURKE: A tear in his eyea smile shyer than others. He turns to the old lady, instinctively using this victory to settle his most recent score as he says mockingly:
BURKE: Now can I get you some water?
CATHY: I never thought it would do this well. There were so many holes; I told everybody it wasn't going to do business. Why am I so public with my You might be right.
MATT: You might be right.
CATHY: Not with that score. You know, maybe tonight's the night I'm losing my entire mind, but weren't you in Incredible. I was only there for a minute in the rape scene, moving past Charlie Sheen when I left the hut. I had a great scene cut out. I was.
MATT: Incredible. I was only there for a minute in the rape scene, moving past Charlie Sheen when I left the hut. I had a great scene cut out. I was.
CATHY: But there was that one long close up where you seemed ashamed of yourself but still arrogant.
MATT: That's exactly what I was going for.
CATHY: It reminded me of my last boyfriend. Got to go.
MATT: You have to read all that?
CATHY: Beast of burden.
MATT: ( sincerely ) So what are you, totally wonderful or what?
BURKE: How come you haven't said anything? This is great, right?
NAN: What no?
BURKE: What no?
NAN: The definite recommends are way off for a score this high and, even for action-adventure, it's just too low for women. I'm sorry.
BURKE: It was such a good score.
NAN: ( extraordinarily sympathetic ) I know. And, unfortunately, yesterday's tracking wasn't. ( he reacts ) I'm sorry. They just don't seem in the mood for action-adventure right. ( he reacts ) Sorry. May I tell you one more ( he looks up in anticipatory fear ) I think it's so wonderful that you don't worry about even trying to act Thanks. You want to eat something I'm, uh. I'm blushing from head to Good. I'll call you. Thirty-two, thirty-three.
BURKE: Thanks. You want to eat something I'm, uh. I'm blushing from head to Good. I'll call you. Thirty-two, thirty-three.
NAN: I'm, uh. I'm blushing from head to Good. I'll call you. Thirty-two, thirty-three.
BURKE: Good. I'll call you. Thirty-two, thirty-three.
GROUP CAPTAIN: Thirty-two, thirty-three.
BURKE: You want to do this regularly for me? I was gonna offer, but I thought it would humiliate you.
MATT: ( straight at him ) I don't mind an occasional odd job. But I can't work tomorrow. I have to get my kid.
BURKE: Okay, I got the cards to look atI think I'll ride back here. Maybe I'll drop by your place
NAN: So, thanks for lunch. I hope this leads to an evening date. Though I have to stay home with my daughter, Leslie, on Saturdays.
BURKE: ( sincerely ) Yeah, okay. You were very interesting to talk to. I swear to God. Honest. No kidding. You really were.
NAN: I believe you. And I was very surprised what you were like when you weren't working. There was absolutely no difference. You want to see where we do the Is it okay?
BURKE: ( excited ) Is it okay?
NAN: Nobody ever wants to see how we do the polling, but they're like little starved puppies when the data comes inrunning at you, scrambling to.
VARIOUS WORKERS: 1 ) How often do you go to the movies? 2 ) I'm going to describe a movie in one sentence and then ask you to rate it on a scale of.
BURKE: ( as the workers continue ) I love this. This is what counts and this is where you count it.
NAN: ( soft and true ) That's the same way I feel.
BURKE: You phone all overyou know what movies they're waiting to see, whether your TV spots are working. You know what the country thinks.
WORKER: .what feelings do you have about Cher as a singer, an actress, or potential date.
BURKE: ( again ) .and it's accurate.
NAN: Within six-point-eight percent.
BURKE: And you can't fix it. right?
NAN: No. no. Sometimes just for myself, I can't resist asking America a personal question.
BURKE: ( simply ) When do you feel more worthless mornings or afternoons?
NAN: ( simply ) When do you feel more worthless mornings or afternoons?
BURKE: I gotta get back.
WORKER: Assume Michelle Pfeiffer is the woman which of these 67 actors would you most like to see her with. Patrick Swayze, Keanu Reeves, Dustin Hoffman, Johnny Dep, the guy from 'Major There's something I meant to tell you. You may have noticed something unusual about me.
NAN: There's something I meant to tell you. You may have noticed something unusual about me.
BURKE: I gotta get back.
NAN: I could never find the right time Is this urgent?
BURKE: Is this urgent?
NAN: Well, maybe not urgent, but immediately significant and necessary to tell. You see, there's these pills.
BURKE: 'Cause I gotta go. I'm listening with an eighth of an ear now.
NAN: So long.
MATT'S POV: A recent example of a great actor in a regular movie. something like Brando in "The Freshman." No sound.
ON MATT: Watching intently. Not watchingstudying. not studying fully appreciating. Now he sees a particularly good moment looks around joyously for half a beata reflex to share what he saw. His neighbors, not quite knowing what he's smiling at; he returns his attention to the screen.
MAN: Are you Matt?
MATT: I didn't know if we could wait much longer. Come on in.
MAN: I didn't know if we could wait much longer. Come on in.
MAN: ( again ) She's a real nut on smoking anywhere near the kid.
BETH: Hellodid you two meet?
MATT: Not really. Is she ready? I have the taxi waiting.
BETH: I just have to say goodbye. You have no idea how difficult that is.
MATT: It's three weeks.
BETH: It's not three weeks.
MATT: Yes, it is.
BETH: No, it's not.
MATT: It is.
MAN: He doesn't know?
BETH: You are not taking her for a visit. You are taking her for a while.
MATT: Just because you want to go off with him doesn't mean I.
MAN: You're getting the wrong idea.
MATT: I don't think so. No matter how you put this.
MAN: Hey, look, I'm a United States Marshal. I'm here because she didn't show up yesterday to start serving her time.
BETH: I don't have a choice. You don't have a choice.
MATT: What did she do?
BETH: ( turning ) I loved, helped and supported in every possible way a business man who committed the terrible crime of being financially imaginative with a pension fund.
BETH'S VOICE: Okay, listen carefully, Jeannie. Be still. Now, what's the most important thing in life to know?
JEANNIE: No one will ever love me as much as you do.
BETH: Good. Now, concentrate with all your muscles and remember everything I'm about to say to you.
BETH: Don't talk to strangers. They may be killers. Take your vitamins so the poison in the food can't hurt you. What else now?
JEANNIE'S VOICE: BETH'S VOICE
BETH'S VOICE: Right. Thank you. Brush right after you eat or your gums will start to bleed in your sleep and choke you.
BETH: What? I'm giving Jeannie her Reminders?!? You can't say things like that to a little.
MATT: Reminders?!? You can't say things like that to a little.
BETH: No. Don't. No. Don't dare. Don't criticize the way I mother or I think I'll start to scream and never st.
MARSHAL: Mrs. Hobbs.
BETH: ( suddenly cheery ) You know, I've been involved with this sort of thing for a long time.
MARSHAL: You know, I've been involved with this sort of thing for a long time.
BETH: You're not going to criticize me, are you? Not in front of himbecause all he's done is send Jeannie these long, stupid letters. He doesn't even realize she can't read. He sends letters to someone who can't read. It's almost funny.
MATT: I thought you'd read them to her.
BETH: ( realizing ) I'm not faulting you. You love your daughter and this is a very tough thing to go through. You feel guilty and caring and it all gets mixed up so that there's so much important stuff going down that there's no sure way of dealing with it, but the best thing you can do is just make sure you love her.
MARSHAL: I'm not faulting you. You love your daughter and this is a very tough thing to go through. You feel guilty and caring and it all gets mixed up so that there's so much important stuff going down that there's no sure way of dealing with it, but the best thing you can do is just make sure you love her.
BETH: Typical cop talk. But I understand what you're trying to say. Thank you. Can I have another minute with her?
MATT: Hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi.
JEANNIE: ( laughing mirthlessly ) Hello, monster-poop.
MATT: ( to U.S. Marshal ) She has her mother's sense of humor.
BETH: Okay, love, Mommy's going to help others who need her for a few years, and you're going with Daddy as I We'll all have to help with the
BETH: ( turning to Matt ) Beginning now, you must give less value to your own happiness and well- being, then hopefully, you will reach the point where you give that no value whatsoever. Give her everything. There's no such thing as spoiling a Even if you have to steal to do it?
MAN: Even if you have to steal to do it?
BETH: You don't really want to mess with me, do you?
MAN: ( simple honesty ) ( to Jeannie ) Okay, sweetie. We have to go.
MATT: ( to Jeannie ) Okay, sweetie. We have to go.
JEANNIE: ( to Beth ) I want to go with you.
BETH: Can't, pretty-heart. I'm sorry.
JEANNIE: Not even a compromise?
BETH: ( thinking ) The compromise will be that you don't have to ride in back; you can ride up front with the driver. okay?
MATT: As Beth buckles Jeannie into the front seat, Matt gets in the back, alone, feeling preposterous. Beth nods to the Marshal, who surreptitiously handcuffs her.
JEANNIE: As Beth buckles Jeannie into the front seat, Matt gets in the back, alone, feeling preposterous. Beth nods to the Marshal, who surreptitiously handcuffs her.
MATT: ( to driver ) Can we please go?
MATT: It's going to be okay. I'm you're dad, you know? So it will be okay. You and I will make it okay. You ever ridden in a plane before?
JEANNIE: ( a sudden gust of anger )
JEANNIE: Don't stare at me.
MATT: I want to put on my yellow dress It's underneath the plane. We can't get it.
JEANNIE: I want to put on my yellow dress It's underneath the plane. We can't get it.
MATT: It's underneath the plane. We can't get it.
JEANNIE: I want to put on my dress. I want to put on my dress.
MATT: There's no way we can get the dress it's impossible.
MATT: Don't kick the seat!
JEANNIE: I want the yellow dress. Give me a compromise.
MATT: As soon as we land. That's the
MORE MUSIC: Without warning, Jeannie slaps herself in the face. All five people in the row ahead turn and say in unison:
MATT: God, I didn't hit hershe hit her.
JEANNIE: Noooooo. Let go of me. Noooo. The yellow dress. let go. let go.
CAMERA MOVING: At breakneck speed, Jeannie dashes through the plane with her father in pursuit. flashes of disapproving faces. The seat belt sign goes on. A FLIGHT ATTENDANT blocks his path.
FLIGHT ATTENDANT: You'll have to sit down.
MATT: ( yelling ) Jeannie, we have to sit down. Please.
CAPTAIN'S VOICE: We'll be having some turbulence for the next twenty minutes or so. Will the cabin attendants please take their seats?
FLIGHT ATTENDANT: ( simply and utterly ) I have no idea what to do.
MATT: ( simply and utterly ) I have no idea what to do.
MATT: Jeannie, you okay?
FLIGHT ATTENDANT: Go back to your seat. I'll get her.
FLIGHT ATTENDANT: She wants to be alone. So we're upgrading her.
FULL SHOT: Down the aisleJeannie lets an Attendant lead her as she peers back at her dad.
JEANNIE: These are the wrong jammies.
MATT: Okay. so what do we do?
JEANNIE: Where do I sleep?
MATT: I have a sleeping bag and bed. Which one do you want?
JEANNIE: She gets into it. He zips her upthen she says something remarkably unexpected.
JEANNIE: Amazed, Matt hugs her. A half-beat, then:
JEANNIE: ( sharply ) Let go.
ON NAN: MUSIC CONTINUES. She dials a phone number while arching her neck and swallowing one pill after another with little swigs of water. This process continuing, even as she speaks into the phone.
NAN: Monicais Leslie up yet? Good. I didn't want you to get worried when you realized I wasn't there. I'm still with that man. I'll tell you about it later. But it's sure nice to have wobbly legs again. Look, today's recycling day for Leslie at school, so give her some empty cans. well, then dump some out for her! Tell her I had to leave real early for work and I'll pick her up at school myself to make up for it and we'll rent any cassette she wants for tonight. Thank you. Take good
BURKE: Oh, I thought you took off in the middle of the night.
NAN: No. I just had to call home. Is that why you're sad?
BURKE: No. It's Everett. This kid who used to work for me. He was always crazy to do his own movie.
NAN: ( fearing worst ) What happened?
BURKE: ( very down ) His movie not only opened to a three million dollar Fridayit's gotten great reviews.
BURKE: ( again ) Listen. I'm tremendously worried about 'Ground Zero' because of the bad 'want to sees' you sent over. But that's just me being nervous over nothing, isn't it?
NAN: No. That's just you correctly assessing the situation. So stop being so hard on yourself.
MATT: How're you doing? I'm from next door. I see you with your kids in the laundry room.
LUCY: ( seeing Jeannie, turns warmer ) .Who are you?
MATT: Say, 'Hello, I'm your new neighbor now too.'
LUCY: I'm Lucy Crisala. What's your name?
MATT: Say, 'Jeannie.'
LUCY: I have a little girl too.
MATT: Say, 'Isn't that nice. How old is She's four and a half and I have a little boy who is not yet one year.
LUCY: She's four and a half and I have a little boy who is not yet one year.
MATT: Say, 'That's nice. I'd like to play with them. My Daddy didn't know your phone number, so we just decided to.'
LUCY: ( interrupting ) What can I do for you?
MATT: Say 'Daddy has to go to work tonight I need someone to help me and her on short notice. I've seen your around with your kids and hoped you knew someone in the building or close by. I've got this new job that starts now. Do you know anyone?
LUCY: Well, I'm always here. I could maybe do it myself.
MATT: ( there is a God and a good one at that ) Oh, this is so great. Let's work out a full-time schedule and.
LUCY: Wait. Jeannie, why don't you come in for a minute and meet Ricky and Essa. Come on, we're making fruit bars.
LUCY: ( again, to Matt ) Why don't you leave her for a while and then we talk.
MATT: Sort of a test?
LUCY: We'll just see how it works.
MATT: Please behave, understand? I don't know what we'll do if this doesn't work, so behave, sweetheart. Behave,
MATT: I'm sorry I bothered you. Could I have her a little bit longer? My little boy just fell and Jeannie is the only one he let hold him.
LUCY: Could I have her a little bit longer? My little boy just fell and Jeannie is the only one he let hold him.
ON MATT: A devil's weight lifted from his shoulders. The slap-happy smile of the just saved plastered on his face.
MATT: Your little boy fell, so he's screaming. And you want her to stay.
LUCY: Okay. Seven dollars an hour?
MATT: Great. Thank you. See you later,
MATT: No, that's okay. I'm fine with it. I feel fine.
BURKE: Nothing good that happens tonight can make it worth feeling the way I do right now. Nothing. What do you think?
CATHY: ( nervously taking the plunge ) To be honest, I had problems with 'Ground Zero.' But this 'People Get Hurt' one, while it might not be my exact, exact thing, I think will really work for an audience. It's so over the top, you have a great time.
BURKE: So you think it'll score big?
CATHY: INT. COUNTING ROOM - NIGHT Where we discover the SOURCE OF THE SOUND. Some twenty card- counters on the floor riffling through stacks of cards with erasers. Matt and Nan stand in the doorway.
NAN: Don't worry. My daughter used to throw fits in supermarkets when we first moved here. It's all so perfectly normal. Plus I know a great psychiatric children's group.
MATT: That's what breaks your heart. Jeannie's problem is that she's so down on herself.
NAN: Well, she's lucky to have a daddy who cares, believe me.
MATT: I don't know if lucky's the word. I'm hoping she's asleep when I get home so I won't have to deal with her. I'm actually afraid of my own Oh, my. I've had exactly that feeling and never said it out loud. See, there are men who talk my language and I'm just cursed that I'm not attracted to them because they are so nice they remind me of myself.
NAN: Oh, my. I've had exactly that feeling and never said it out loud. See, there are men who talk my language and I'm just cursed that I'm not attracted to them because they are so nice they remind me of myself.
GROUP CAPTAIN: GIRL COUNTER GROUP CAPTAIN
GIRL COUNTER: GROUP CAPTAIN
GROUP CAPTAIN: Very goods?
BOY COUNTER: GROUP CAPTAIN SECOND BOY CARD COUNTER GROUP CAPTAIN SECOND GIRL CARD COUNTER ( finishes counting )
GROUP CAPTAIN: SECOND BOY CARD COUNTER GROUP CAPTAIN SECOND GIRL CARD COUNTER ( finishes counting )
GROUP CAPTAIN: SECOND GIRL CARD COUNTER ( finishes counting )
NAN: I felt terrible about the way I blew up at you when I first met you.
BURKE: What are they doing?
NAN: I began taking anti-depressants when we moved here from Washington. I had some small reactionssleeping 14 hours, no libido, I gained 17 pounds in nine daysthat sort of thing. So they gave me pills to deal with the side effects. And then pills to deal with the side effects I was getting from those pills. All this besides the stuff the nutritionist was giving me. The combination formed some sort of potion so that I keep telling the truth. I don't have a choice. That's why I was so rude to you.
MATT: Your doctor says this?
NAN: Oh, yes. He's excited, but only because he sees glory for himself in it. See, ordinarily I wouldn't say that about my doctor, but I can't help it, it's the truth. He's monitoring me for a while longer before writing it up for this medical
CATHY: Burke's going crazy waiting for the How are you, anyway?
NAN: ( to Matt ) How are you, anyway?
CATHY: ( to Matt ) How are you, anyway?
CATHY: ( a small laugh ) It's a tough one, huh? Me too.
NAN: Oh, my. Matt, I'd better drive him
BURKE: I can fix this. Get some narration written. . . You'll cut 30 minutes. It will come out like butter.
DIRECTOR: We're only 77 minutes now.
BURKE: ( mumbling to himself ) .a 47-minute movie. no, that won't work.
BURKE: Thanks for the support.
BURKE: ( again ) Can you help?
NAN: Yes, I can.
BURKE: ( hopeful ) Go ahead.
NAN: It's only a movie.
JEANNIE: Let go. Please, Lucy, don't make me Everyone's tired. You can come back Listen to me, Jeannie.
MATT: Everyone's tired. You can come back Listen to me, Jeannie.
LUCY: Listen to me, Jeannie.
JEANNIE: I want to live here with these people. God, let me live here.
MATT: Maybe if she stayed tonight she.
JEANNIE: I love it here so much that. Daddy says I can stay. I no think you can give her what pleases when she act like this. Because then she think. I know. I know.
JEANNIE: Daddy says I can stay. I no think you can give her what pleases when she act like this. Because then she think. I know. I know.
LUCY: I no think you can give her what pleases when she act like this. Because then she think. I know. I know.
MATT: I know. I know.
MATT: You'll see Lucy in the morning. We're going home.
JEANNIE: No. I'm not! STOP!
HER POV: Matt, upset in a way he has never imagined, as he pops a beerputs on some headphones for calming music and begins to read a book on child behavior modification.
ON JEANNIE: Feeling the restrictions of her punishment, pacing and now she begins to wail "THIS LONELY LIFE". Few adult women have sung with such appropriate passion out of need and loss, aloneness and confusion. The song finishes. Jeannie sits EXT. ROOFTOP - DAY This rooftop serves as an outdoor commissary for Popcorn Pictures. There are a few tables, snack machines and umbrellas. The whole "D" staff is there, including Cathy, having lunch, along with Claire, the casting assistant. In the b.g., we see Matt, huddled, sitting on the roof's awful green outdoor carpeting, feeling much the same as Jeannie in the previous scene.
ON MATT: Off in the distance, the Popcorn execs contentedly ply their trade. As he overhears their conversation and the words begin to register in all their horror.
MILLIE: Will somebody take a minute to look over my casting list before Burke gets here?
MILLIE: Well, I wanted to put in people we had a shot at getting.
MILLIE: Could you at least take it one person at a time instead of.
MATT: I can't stand it anymore. I can't.
CATHY: What's wrong? What happened?
MATT: What, in God's name, are you doing in this job you have?
SHOT: As they all start to answer at once.
MATT: I mean him. What, in God's name, do you know about casting?
MATT: Yes. What do you know? About anything? You don't even know you have a habit of touching your tongue with a finger like you want to lick yourself. Yet, you talk like you actually know something. So I want you to tell .what you know.
MATT: I've been an actor most of my life and this is the first time I've ever heard what the people calling the shots sound like when they're casting. So I really want to find out what, if anything, you know because what if nothing you know.
MATT: Oh, you couldn't be more wrong. And I'm not talking to you. And I don't like you.
MATT: You're minding my business. That's the problem. so, just tell me, what do you know?
MATT: Just tell me and I'll shut up.
MATT: What you know is the size of a schnozz. What you don't know is that these guys. .are for real.
ON CATHY: She is a ricochet victim of every word Matt says, as he continues to indict the Male D Person and unknowingly reach her instead. His fury grows and becomes more complicated, containing an element of mourning.
MATT: ( again ) .that they can make something happen, and even they don't know what that is till they get in there and play a little. they can make something happen that you can't even imagine. and it's not your fault, this stupidity. 'cause you're just this scared little prick who gets to say he's making movies, and the only thing they ever taught you is that what you like doesn't matter.
MATT: But isn't it almost good manners for you to feel a little shame?
MATT: ( again ) I didn't mean you.
CATHY: If you didn't, you sure should have.
MATT: Oh, shit. You win. You got lucky with 'bitter.' That word just scares me to death.
BURKE: You look down.
CATHY: I am.
BURKE: Thank you. I appreciate the support.
CATHY: I'm not down for you. I'm down about Oh. What if 'Ground Zero' doesn't do well this weekend?
BURKE: ( not hearing ) Oh. What if 'Ground Zero' doesn't do well this weekend?
CATHY: Please listen to me.
BURKE: I just got this feeling of seeing myself talking to you and how this is the most important moment of. Okay. Good. What is it?
CATHY: I just got this feeling of seeing myself talking to you and how this is the most important moment of. Okay. Good. What is it?
BURKE: ( brusquely ) Okay. Good. What is it?
CATHY: I've been watching this company make movies that cost tens of millions of dollars and all the while I've known about this wonderful script which we can somehow own and we could make for about $14,000,000. $3,000,000 if you can live without stars or a name director.
BURKE: Is that it? Okay, send me.
CATHY: I've sent you coverage on it nine times. I swear to you, Burke, it will work. You've never heard me say How about last night?
BURKE: How about last night?
CATHY: ( an unexpectedly fierce outburst ) I don't know anything about action- ( on his look, she gains control ) I have no idea where that came from. Hey, I know everyone thinks I don't have any commercial sense because of what I said at the 'Gremlins' preview and all. And you think I can't put myself on the line. Well, if this picture doesn't work, fire me. Have me killed if it doesn't get good reviews. If this doesn't get a 70 percent definite recommend from women 49 and under, I promise to be your sex slave until they drop ticket prices back to five bucks and start enforcing the R rating.
BURKE: You're selling very excellent. Very excellent presentation.
CATHY: You've got to do this. I think this movie can save me.
BURKE: ( disgusted ) Oh, please. What's the script?
CATHY: 'Mr. Deeds Goes to Town.'
JEANNIE: Why couldn't you even look at the way I dressed Ricky?
MATT: Look, I don't want to talk about it. I just had a real rough day. so just let it sit there, okay?
JEANNIE: But what was it? Tellll me. Compromise. You sad?
MATT: ( through gritted neck cords ) Now, I really need to be quiet.
JEANNIE: ( eyes him, then ) You!! I know what will cheer you up.
JEANNIE: I can't even remember the words. I am stupid.
MATT: No, you're not. You're not stupid and I'm not bitter. and you know why? Because there's no cure for either one and we've got to believe in some cure for each of us.
JEANNIE: I am stupid. I can't even remember the words to some baby song.
MATT: Oh, Jeannie. I just can't do this
MATT: ( into phone ) Hello? Yes. Cathy. Hey. Just a
MATT: Jeannie, please. be quiet for one second. this is very important for
MATT: ( into phone ) So? Wow. Good for you.
MATT: Me? This is great. I'll come right over and pick up the script. Okay. If you want to. Bring it over. We might make it yet, kid.
MATT'S VOICE: MATT'S VOICE
CATHY: MATT'S VOICE
MATT'S VOICE: I'll buzz you in. You've got to be quick and push hard.
JEANNIE'S VOICE: But why can't I stay just a little Because this is a very special friend of Daddy's and I need privacy. Be fair. I let you wear that dress.
MATT'S VOICE: Because this is a very special friend of Daddy's and I need privacy. Be fair. I let you wear that dress.
MATT: He steps aside so Cathy may enter. The place is tidied up. He has changed his clothes and Jeannie is wearing a lace dress, fit for a young princess, complete with flowered tiara and ballet slippers, with trailing blue ribbons at the heels and a velvet cape.
MATT: This is my daughter, Queen Elizabeth. Jeannie, this is Cathy.
CATHY: Hi. What a pretty dress.
JEANNIE: Thank you. That's nice.
ON MATT: Happy that Jeannie is behaving so well.
CATHY: Are you going to a party?
JEANNIE: ( wildly hopeful ) Am I going to a party, Dad?
MATT: ( quickly ) No. You're going next door.
MATT: Remember our compromise? You're going next door to Lucy's to play and you'll show the kids your dress and I'll come get you later and we'll go out someplace and I'll buy you anything you want for under seventeen dollars?
JEANNIE: I remember.
JEANNIE: ( again to Cathy ) Goodbye. I love you.
CATHY: ( totally thrown ) Well,. thank you.
MATT: ( sotto )
OTHER ANGLE: Favoring Cathy, Matt leans out the doorway until Jeannie is safely next door, then re-enters.
CATHY: What a little winner, huh?
MATT: ( modestly ) ( waving script ) This is my favorite project. And it looks like we're going ahead with ( overlap ) 'Mr. Deeds Goes to Town?' Oh, it's a Well, come on, what's original? And this is a wonderful rewrite. It's And there's a part in it for.
CATHY: ( waving script ) This is my favorite project. And it looks like we're going ahead with ( overlap ) 'Mr. Deeds Goes to Town?' Oh, it's a Well, come on, what's original? And this is a wonderful rewrite. It's And there's a part in it for.
MATT: ( overlap ) 'Mr. Deeds Goes to Town?' Oh, it's a Well, come on, what's original? And this is a wonderful rewrite. It's And there's a part in it for.
CATHY: Well, come on, what's original? And this is a wonderful rewrite. It's And there's a part in it for.
MATT: And there's a part in it for.
CATHY: Yes. Burke says I can test whoever I want. He wasn't even surprised when I mentioned you. So, if you could read this rewrite now and if you like it, we can make a test they can make a test deal. we can tell them that they can make a test I think it's important for me to steer clear of the business end.
MATT: Okay. which part?
CATHY: Longfellow Deeds.
MATT: Mr. Deeds?
CATHY: Who goes to town, yes.
MATT: Who are we kidding? I'm even having trouble getting short partsI'm going to say I love it no matter what you've done to it.
CATHY: Stop being so creepy honest. I really have an instinct about you for this. I'm going homecall me when you finish reading it. Or. come on over.
BURKE: Why not? If you can test movies and premises and want-to-sees, why can't you test screen tests?
NAN: I can't deal with your self-centered dribble right now. I have just had the biggest orgasm of my life and I'm trying to figure out if I'm in love with you.
BURKE: Whoops. Tell me what made you rush over and pick me up and bring me here at six o'clock. I mean we seem to have.
NAN: Whoops. Tell me what made you rush over and pick me up and bring me here at six o'clock. I mean we seem to have.
NAN: ( again ) .this unspoken agreement not to talk about why we're together when we're together and I don't think it's good to let that become a pattern for us. Why did I rush to you? Because I felt like I had to. be with someone and you were closest. ( on Nan's reaction ) What's wrong?
BURKE: Why did I rush to you? Because I felt like I had to. be with someone and you were closest. What's wrong?
NAN: You're not at all aware that you've just said something. Look, I'm sorry if that came out.
BURKE: Look, I'm sorry if that came out.
NAN: I'm not looking for an apology.
BURKE: I'm just trying to say that one of the things I'm not great at is.
NAN: Let's not make this about your shortcomings. I'm sure you've had enough of those conversations to last you a lifetime. What I'm.
BURKE: No, I haven't.
NAN: No, you haven't what?
BURKE: Had a conversation about No woman has ever told you that you have an almost barbaric insensitivity? That you seem to have lapsed into some final cynicism, where you actually believe that, not only does everyone think the way you do, but only you have the courage to express it? That you seem horribly certain everyone else is sort of pretending when they talk about love or seem to care for anything outside their own anus? No one's ever said that sort of thing to you?
NAN: ( aghast ) No woman has ever told you that you have an almost barbaric insensitivity? That you seem to have lapsed into some final cynicism, where you actually believe that, not only does everyone think the way you do, but only you have the courage to express it? That you seem horribly certain everyone else is sort of pretending when they talk about love or seem to care for anything outside their own anus? No one's ever said that sort of thing to you?
BURKE: Oh, yeah. But I didn't get what you meant by 'shortcomings.' Hey, if you think things like that, what are you doing here?
NAN: ( indignantly ) I'm here for the same reason 86 percent of older women loved 'Beauty and the Beast.' I would like to believe that underneath the creature, there is a sweet, caring guy.
BURKE: I sure hope you're wrong.
NAN: I have to pick up Leslie.
CATHY: ( calling ) I mistimed it. ( sticking her head out the door ) I wanted you to catch me fully
CATHY: So you loved it. A lot? A little?
MATT: Give me a secondall of a sudden, there's a lot to deal with.
MATT: ( again ) It's terrific.
CATHY: ( pointedly ) Do you see why I think you're right?
MATT: Because you're nice and you know I need work.
CATHY: ( lower ) You know this is really happening, so I wish you wouldn't kid around about it.
MATT: Sorry, but I think the audition rule is that I have to be serious unless the person in charge is wearing a bathrobe and her nipples are sticking .this much.
CATHY: There are some mixed signals coming out of here, aren't there? Hi. Working. I can't write down a number now. Call me back. The script?
MATT: It's really good. I get a little nervous thinking about the I want to hear everything. You want to go page by page?
CATHY: I want to hear everything. You want to go page by page?
MATT: If it's okay. I kind of work on these things in a private. it's just. it's a little better for me if I Okay, let's do it. It won't kill me.
CATHY: ( hurt ) Okay, let's do it. It won't kill me.
MATT: Okay, let's do it. It won't kill me.
CATHY: Please. I understand. I swear to God, I don't know which thing I want more, the sex or the conversation afterwards.
MATT: I swear to God, I don't know which thing I want more, the sex or the conversation afterwards.
CATHY: ( a smile ) What do you mean?
MATT: I mean I haven't been to bed with anyone since Jeannie got here. I haven't talked to anyone the way I need to. I haven't seen anything this beautiful. I haven't felt this good about life. I mean, I've been lonely, I'll tell you the truth, Matt. I've never felt more like turning my phone
CATHY: ( as he enters her ) I'll tell you the truth, Matt. I've never felt more like turning my phone
MATT: You can't shut the phone off. I left this number with Jeannie's sitter.
CATHY: I don't understand what you're worried I'm not worried. But if the phone was off, I would worry.
MATT: I'm not worried. But if the phone was off, I would worry.
CATHY: But I get a lot of calls.
MATT: I could put the machine on 'monitor,' but it's going to be. I don't know.
CATHY: I could put the machine on 'monitor,' but it's going to be. I don't know.
MATT: It will be okay. I think the most important thing is to stop talking about the phone. Turn it off, monitor,
CATHY: She twists toward the phone againnot quite so beautifully.
OTHER ANGLE: As she hits the "monitor" button, then turns back to him.
CATHY: You look so serious.
MATT: I am so serious.
CATHY'S POV: Matt totally there. this is major for him, then he does something sensitive. reads her concern over the depth of his need and interest and shrugs, indicating he can't help ON CATHY She likes him.
ON CATHY: She likes him.
THE COUPLE: As they make love. their union thrown off kilter by the phone messages which roll in periodically as they thrust and sweat towards intimacy.
MATT: Is this the kind of crap you listen to all day?
CATHY: Please, we're making love here.
BURKE'S VOICE: ( incredibly depressed ) If the TV show bombs, there's going to be a dance party on my grave. I don't give a crap. Nothing seems to have a point anymore. I'm really questioning everything. including action-adventure. Don't tell anyone I'm down. Even destroy the message tape. Don't tell anyone I said to destroy the message tape. Don't even give hints that there's something you can't tell them, but you wish you could. I'm losing it. I'm losing it. I'm losing it. Don't tell nobody. Don't tell nobody. Don't tell nobody.
JEANNIE'S VOICE: ( sobbing ) ( berating someone who is with her ) You dialed bad. Where is he?
LUCY'S VOICE: ( with Jeannie coaching b.g. ) Matt, Jeannie is very upset because you are not here when you said. And now the big hand is on the eight.
MATT: I'm sorry.
CATHY: It's all right.
MATT: ( as he leaves ) Is there a name for what we just
MATT: This is awkward, my driving you around and testing for you tomorrow.
BURKE: Not really.
MATT: Well, I hope you understand I can't drive you to work tomorrow and then go in and test. It's just.
BURKE: Okay. I was going to come in late anyway. I'll get one of the kids to drive me.
MATT: Thanks. And, look, if I get the lead in this movie, you'll have to go back to sitting up front with me.
MATT: ( into phone ) No sitter!!! Thanks. We're leaving
CATHY: Jeannie's fine. There's a whole bunch of kids in the building. She's fascinated. And they're all ready for you.
MATT: How many men are they testing today?
CATHY: You're the only one.
MATT: Then tell them I need a little more No, it's okay, we're done.
MATT: I mean for me. I want to focus a Good luck, Matt. The thing they're looking for most is sexy.
CATHY: ( she hugs Matt ) Good luck, Matt. ( whispered advice ) The thing they're looking for most is sexy.
HAIR PERSON: You know who she was involved with for a minute or so?
MATT: ( quickly )
MATT: ( again ) You guys have to leave. This is important and I need to be alone right now.
JEANNIE: Get out of my way!
CATHY: Don't say it like that!!!
JEANNIE: Which way should I? Get out of my way. Get out of my way. Get out of my way.
CASTING PERSON: INT. POPCORN PICTURES HALLWAY - SEVERAL HOURS LATER Matt making his way past the last of the kid stragglers. Cathy and Jeannie come running up to him.
MATT: It felt great. Everybody.
JEANNIE: Let me tell him, let me tell him, let me tell him.
CATHY: ( highly annoyed ) Let him finish! God!
JEANNIE: I want to tell him.
CATHY: If you wait one minute, I'll let
MATT: Anyway, the girl I did it with, by the way, she's really good; the director, the crew. they all thought we nailed it.
CATHY: ( loving, sexy ) ( to Cathy )
JEANNIE: ( to Cathy )
CATHY: Wait till you hear this one.
JEANNIE: Some lady asked me to go in a room and, you know, make believe and say stuff like we were playing a game.
JEANNIE: ( again ) And everybody went 'yea' and they said they wanted me to be on
JEANNIE: And give me money and have a teacher there and a person to braid my hair and color my face and give me
ON MATT: You wait here, Jeannie.
MATT: You wait here, Jeannie.
MATT: ( furious ) I have to talk to you.
CATHY: What in hell is wrong with you? You actually think.
MATT: What in hell is wrong with you? You actually think.
CATHY: I'm trying to hang in here but everything in me cuts off when somebody acts this way.
MATT: ( continuing right along ) .that you can have my kid audition for a show without asking me.
CATHY: I didn't. She went for water and by the time she got back, they had offered her the part. Blame Burke, he was there.
MATT: What's the part, anyway?
CATHY: The white kid in a multi-racial foster home with all these kids of varying ages. It's not a bad show. I sure can't wait to see the test.
MATT: How were they able to test her so No. They offered it to her off the reading. I meant your test.
CATHY: No. They offered it to her off the reading. I meant your test.
MATT: Oh. A child actor. Just what any kid with problems needs to straighten outa series of her own.
MATT: You'll let me know as soon as they see my test?
CATHY: Right away. You've got my vote.
JEANNIE: I'm doing it.
MATT: Not if I don't let you. That's the law, the police law.
JEANNIE: Do I have to learn to read to be on You're going to have to learn to look at me and listen to me and the longer I have to wait THE ANGRIER
MATT: ( with a real edge ) You're going to have to learn to look at me and listen to me and the longer I have to wait THE ANGRIER
JEANNIE: ( looks up suddenly ) I'm so mad.
MATT: Me too. Just listen.
JEANNIE: I don't. why?!?
MATT: Because I know about this. I have worked with kid actors. They don't have that much fun. They're inside all day. they don't get to go to regular schools or play with their regular friends like Ricky and Essa. And their parents? You think I'm going to be one of those parents, sitting in one of those rooms, where we all go crazy trying to jump start our egos with our kids' sweat, all the time smiling at each other like our lives are working while we root against everyone else's little girl? No!! No way! I can't!
JEANNIE: Okay. So, no, you're cuckoo anyway. I won't do it. And I don't care because I'm be stupid at it anyway.
MATT: Pick it up, Jeannie.
MATT: Let's work on it.
BURKE: So how do you think 'Ground Zero' will do tonight?
BURKE: How do you think my movie will do I'm not going to talk to you during Matt's screentest.
NAN: ( testy ) I'm not going to talk to you during Matt's screentest.
BURKE: ( to himself ) How bad can it be? We've got to have at least a two million dollar Friday. There's nothing else out there.
CATHY: ( turning to him ) I'm watching.
BURKE: I'm watching.
ON SCREEN: A VERY ATTRACTIVE ACTRESS is crying. Matt very close to The COLOR BAR GRAPH does a quick slide and disappears from the screen leaving the actors' faces green.
BURKE'S VOICE: Stop playing with that thing.
ACTRESS: ( crying ) C'mon, Deeds, tell me about the What's wrong?
MATT: What's wrong?
ACTRESS: Don't worry about my crying. As a matter of fact, crying turns me on.
MATT: Well, in that case, your dog died.
ACTRESS: What happened at the meeting?
MATT: I can't remember. You're too pretty. Oh, I told them I'd keep on being I'm Chairman, you know.
ACTRESS: ( smiling ) I know.
MATT: Told them I'd keep on being Chairman if they hired everybody back.
ACTRESS: What did they say?
MATT: Oh, that I was crazy. You always wear your hair back like that?
ON CATHY: As the conversation about the girl grows more pointed. Cathy, impassive outwardly, recoiling inwardly.
BURKE: Okay, come on. let's have our creative meeting right here.
BURKE: ( professionally concurring ) Very fuckable.
BURKE: Okay. that's her. What about I think he's a very good to excellent actorI do. But there's something.
BURKE: You wouldn't want to fuck him?
CLAIRE: I think he's talented and attractive.
BURKE: So you'd want to fuck him?
CLAIRE: He might be light in that area.
CATHY: The man is talented. If you get one of those directors who like actors, I think.
BURKE: A director can't make you hot if you're not hot. You'll end up with warm which is death.
CATHY: ( defending Matt slightly ) We laughed.
BURKE: Let me ask you something. Would you fuck him?
CATHY: ( wearily ) Everything doesn't boil down to.
BURKE: Let me stop you before you embarrass
BURKE: ( again ) We all can do our little lectures on what things boil down to. Everybody else here was professional enough to come out and say. I'd fuck her. I wouldn't fuck him. and you're ducking it. I want you to forget the acting stuff and totally focus on the issue.
BURKE: ( again ) We do have some kind of responsibility to the audience. You just saw his screentest. so, if this is the first time you saw the guy, do you come out thinking to yourself and your girl friends, 'I'd sure go to bed with him; oh God, would he be something.' Would you, Cathy?. I'm being real here.
CATHY: Okay, so let's keep looking.
BURKE: Okay, so let's keep looking.
CATHY: ( into phone ) Hello. Matt. Hi. Okay, sure.
CATHY: ( again ) ( louder ) Matt. Matt. Maybe it would be easier if I just said 'hi' to her. Hi, Jeannie. Yes, it's exciting. No, no. He's right, honey, they get somebody to read it to you. Now, put your dad onit's important. No, first put your dad on. DAMN IT! ( she waits a beat ) .Matt. Uh-huh, a few hours ago. They all. everyone liked your work, but I think they'll go for a name or
CATHY: ( again ) It's not a matter of doing it differently. they liked what you did, a lot. they laughed and. it's not you. it's them. ( suddenly her breath comes weird ) No, please. Don't thank me. If you feel like getting together later or anytime, call me, okay? You sound like you have your hands full right now. Goodbye.
JEANNIE: I wanted to talk to her again.
ON JEANNIE: Devoid of anger. Sympathy so pure that it wrenches. She starts to move towards the bathroom. Her voice sweet.
JEANNIE: Dad? Daddy?
MATT: Everything's okay. I'm sorry I forgot to put you back on with Cathy.
JEANNIE: You didn't cried because of that. I don't even want to talk to her. Dad. Can I say just one thing?
JEANNIE: ( a whisper ) Dad. Can I say just one thing?
JEANNIE: You've got to make me supper.
VOICE: You have reached the Warner's Hotline. Estimated Box Office Grosses for Friday, December 3rd, Weekend Number 49, are as follows in millions of
PHONE VOICE: Due to the high volume of calls, we must ask you to wait till a line is
PHONE VOICE: ( again ) Thanks for waiting. Weekend 49 grosses follow in millions of dollars. 'Belligerence,' 714 theaters. Two- point-one-eight million, down 46
PHONE VOICE: ( again ) 'Best Girl,' 1,820 theaters, six- point-four million, up 24 percent.
BURKE: ( contemptuously ) Cappuccino movies.
PHONE VOICE: Opening this weekend, 'Double Dare Two,' 1,870 theaters, fourteen-point- three million. 'Ground Zero,' 2,110 theaters, no million, point four thousand dollars.
PHONE VOICE: ( again ) 'Ground Zero,' 2,110 theaters, no million, point four thousand dollars.
BURKE: I'm going to pieces. The picture was budgeted at 21 million and I spent 49 so they were a little mad at me to begin with. Now it doesn't open even with an Arby's Roast Beef tie-in. I mean, we only averaged 300 dollars a theater. they're going to think I'm Woody I don't think you have to worry about Thanks. But this is private. What about the exit survey? Did we do good with any group at all?
MATT: I don't think you have to worry about Thanks. But this is private. What about the exit survey? Did we do good with any group at all?
BURKE: Thanks. But this is private. What about the exit survey? Did we do good with any group at all?
NAN'S VOICE: I can't hear you, buthi, Matt that was funny.
MATT: NAN'S VOICE
NAN'S VOICE: 'I don't think you have to worry about that?'
BURKE: Did we do well with any group at Eleven-year-old boys in the South.
NAN'S VOICE: Eleven-year-old boys in the South.
NAN'S VOICE: ( again ) Burke? Burke? Matt, is he.
BURKE: I'll see you later. Goodbye.
NAN'S VOICE: But, hon.
BURKE: I'm all alone. At least there's that.
MATT: Are you going to need me? The kids are rehearsing and I'd like to take a look.
BURKE: Yeah, sure. I have to stay inside during lunch hours now anywaythat's when everybody returns my calls because they're trying to miss me.
MATT: ( amazed ) Is that true?
BURKE: ( misinterpreting ) Yeah. Thanks for the support.
ON JEANNIE: Seen from a distanceher father behind her. In the foreground, the mass of workers on the stage, It is, in effect, her POV, even though she is in the extreme background of the shot. We MOVE CLOSER to Jeannie and her fathereven a bit behind them. Jeannie is scared.
MATT: I bet I know what it looks like to A giant "find Waldo."
JEANNIE: A giant "find Waldo."
MATT: A giant "find Waldo."
JEANNIE: Very funny.
PASSING VOICE: Five minutes, children, then we need you for work on the set.
JEANNIE: That pretend living room, right over Okay. Set. Bye.
MATT: That pretend living room, right over Okay. Set. Bye.
JEANNIE: Okay. Set. Bye.
MATT: ( holding her arm ) Wait a second, Jeannie. Let Daddy give you a few tips here.
JEANNIE: ( twisting away ) Nooo. I've got to get to work.
JEANNIE: ( faintly ) Is this the set?
PASSING VOICE: Parents to Room Two, please. Parents to Room Two, please.
PASSING VOICE: ( again ) We have to clear the set.
PASSING VOICE: ( again ) This way, parents.
CATHY: I'm glad I found you.
MATT: OTHER AREA - BEHIND GRANDSTAND SEATS As they walk.
CATHY: You holding up? What did you do last night after I called?
MATT: ( as if teasing ) What do you think I did? I cried like a baby.
CATHY: Okay. Okay. So you don't want to tell me. Be a tough guy.
MATT: Now you got it.
CATHY: I feel relieved just seeing you after all that stuff. whew. Okay. Burke wants to.
MATT: You ever go out with him?
CATHY: You slept with him?
MATT: You slept with him?
CATHY: Did you hate it?
MATT: Did you hate it?
CATHY: ( reeling a bit ) Good Lord.
MATT: ( reeling a bit ) Good Lord.
CATHY: This is the thing that makes me nervous about you. You keep on assuming I'm nicer than I am.
JEANNIE: He turns to see Jeannie beckoning to him from the stagethe director, standing at her side, joins in. He walks to them.
DAD!!: He turns to see Jeannie beckoning to him from the stagethe director, standing at her side, joins in. He walks to them.
JEANNIE: There's such trouble.
DIRECTOR: She's very worried about being able to pretend cry when she has to and she doesn't get it about memorizing. That's all.
JEANNIE: ( aghast ) That's all?!?
JEANNIE: This isn't going to be good.
MATT: Not with that attitude.
MATT: ( again ) It's just that they. Well, did they tell you what an audience is?
JEANNIE: ( insulted ) I know what an audience is.
MATT: Good. Now, because there's an audience, they want you to know all the words you have to say really well. And since you can't read yet. .you're going to have to be patient and try hard. I can help you.
JEANNIE: Can you help me to cry?
MATT: ( on her broad disbelief ) I can. I can help make it okay. Trust
JEANNIE: I miss my mother bigger than you Not yet. Don't grab. Thank you. We really appreciate this. Hi, Beth. I.
MATT: ( to Jeannie ) Not yet. Don't grab. ( into phone ) Thank you. We really appreciate this. Hi, Beth. I.
JEANNIE: ( softly into phone ) Mom? No. Nothing. Nothing. Nothing. Nothing. Would you talk? I'd just like to listen to you. Wait. Let me sit down.
JEANNIE: Dad says he's going to make me to really cry.
MATT: Jeannie, your mom's not going to understand what you mean.
JEANNIE: ( to Matt ) She understands!!! ( into phone ) He's being terrible right now. ( faster; avoiding Matt ) I love, loved, the coloring book you sent me. Goodbye. Wait. I love you. Let me hang up first. Love you. Send me a letter. Bye. And a beaded T- shirt. Bye.
MATT: Why don't you let me be on your side for a second?
JEANNIE: I can't even understand what you're saying now.
MATT: Do you know what trust means?
JEANNIE: Not very.
MATT: It means that even if something is hard to believe, you believe someone you trust because you know he wouldn't say it unless it were true.
JEANNIE: I understand. So I don't trust anybody, right?
MATT: Yeah, I think you get the concept.
JEANNIE: You don't make sense. I don't understand you.
MATT: I think you do.
MATT: Just know that.
JEANNIE: ( giving up ) You want to help me make a phone
MATT: ( giving up ) You want to help me make a phone
MATT: Seven. two.
JEANNIE: ( hitting numbers ) Who are we calling?
MATT: Cathy. She's very nice. One. six.
JEANNIE: ( hard to read ) "Very nice." One.
JEANNIE'S VOICE: ( to Matt ) What now?
JEANNIE'S VOICE: How are you?
CATHY: Jeannie. I can't talk now because.
JEANNIE: Wait, my dad wants to.
CATHY: Tell him I can't talk 'cause I'm on the phone with a director.
JEANNIE: He wants to talk to you very much I can't. I have to hang up.
CATHY: ( sharply ) I can't. I have to hang up.
MATT: You have to understand that sometimes people are too busy.
JEANNIE: So she's too busy for you?
BURKE: We look like jerks eating here this early. Everybody's going to think we couldn't get a reservation for the hot hours.
NAN: Why do you do this to yourself? Why do you insist on eating dinner in a restaurant where you're bound to see all the people you're afraid of?
BURKE: I'm not afraid of them.
NAN: What do you call it when you think that what a group of people think of you can confirm or destroy any decent idea you have of yourself?
BURKE: How did little Jeannie do today?
NAN: How did little Jeannie do today?
BURKE: Isn't it something that they have you testing the TV show?
NAN: What I asked was, how did Jeannie What are you talking about?
BURKE: What are you talking about?
NAN: Somebody else. Jeannie. How did she Don't talk to me like this.
BURKE: Don't talk to me like this.
NAN: ( really pissed ) I want to be treated as if I'm really saying words to you which you engage and respond to. I like Matt; I'd like to know how his daughter did. So before you take your dance of desperation across the restaurant and I end up feeling so sorry for you that I could die, I would like you to answer my question.
BURKE: She did okay. and don't worry about Matt. If the pilot sells, his kid will be making five thousand a week. So what do you know about 'People Get Hurt?'
NAN: I'm told that they're not going to release it.
BURKE: I knew. I knew. What the hell are you smiling for?
NAN: Forgive me. But telling you about this latest failure of yoursit pleases me. I have no idea why.
BURKE: I can't be with someone who's not rooting for me.
NAN: I think I am. It's just that rooting for you is a good deal more complicated than you realize. Don't go.
BURKE: Don't worry. I'm not that mad. I gotta do this.
BURKE: ( again ) Sorry. I thought you were someone
BURKE: Nan, you know Victor and his wife. and Jay and his wife.
NAN: Yes. I'm sorry I can't talk now. I'm very upset about what's happening to Burke, so I just made up my mind I can't be witness to it anymore if I love him and I certainly shouldn't be here if I don't. so I was just in the process of leaving when he stopped me and you folks walked in. I'm sure you've had something like this happen to you some time. some horrible thing in your personal life happening in public. Thank you for understanding. Goodbye. I wish only good things for you even though I feel I've been really damaged by this relationship.
NAN: ( again ) Thank you for understanding. ( to Burke ) Goodbye. I wish only good things for you even though I feel I've been really damaged by this relationship.
COUPLES: Wasn't that spectacular? I've never seen anybody that secure.
BURKE: Thank you. Thank you. We're very
NAN: You don't understand that I'm exhausted from hurting. I'm through with you.
BURKE: ( to restaurant patrons ) Excuse me, we're working our shit out. I'm sure it happened to you. you know, private stuff in public.
JEANNIE: I don't know if I've been bad. I know somebody's been bad. .maybe it's you.
JEANNIE: Oh, I love you so much, I love you so much. I love you so much.
MATT: ( as Black woman ) I hope that makes you feel a whole lot better, Chile. 'Cause it sure goes a long way to cure what ails I can't believe I.
JEANNIE: I can't believe I.
MATT: ( as himself, coaching ) .got in this much.
JEANNIE: .got in this much trouble. .
MATT: Right. Over a.
JEANNIE: ( guessing ) Yes. 'I can't believe I got in this much trouble over a word.' Now do you know what she means when she says that?
MATT: Yes. 'I can't believe I got in this much trouble over a word.' Now do you know what she means when she says that?
JEANNIE: I don't want to talk about itjust say her stuff so I know mine.
MATT: She starts to flail a bit.
MATT: It's your choice. But I'm not helping unless you try to understand as well as memorize. It will be fun. Come on. I know it's hard.
JEANNIE: Okay. Okay.
MATT: Anything to shut me up, huh? Okay, this little girl you're pretending to be. she can't be with her Mommy either, just like you, or her father. she has to stay in Rainbow House which is called that because. .because everyone's a different color. so when this little girl calls the black lady who takes care of all the children this terrible word. it's like the worst thing anybody can do. Come here.
JEANNIE: ( approaching him ) I don't want to do the 'I love you' Yeah, I might have been working you too hard on that one.
MATT: Yeah, I might have been working you too hard on that one.
JEANNIE: Yeah. Why don't you do that with poopie Cathy?
MATT: ( ignoring her ) Now, did the director tell you how he wanted you to do it?
JEANNIE: He said to smile all the time almost and to talk. uh.
MATT: Okay. We don't always get good directors, so it's important for Me. You're not in the show.
JEANNIE: Okay. We don't always get good directors, so it's important for Me. You're not in the show.
MATT: Okay. We don't always get good directors, so it's important for Me. You're not in the show.
JEANNIE: Me. You're not in the show.
MATT: I'm referring to the family of actors, you little shithead.
JEANNIE: This is so good.
MATT: It's a breakfast burrito. It's what actors eat when they're working.
JEANNIE: ( excited ) Now, let's work a little more. The most important acting you do is when you listen. You're worried about being able to cry when you're supposed to, right?
MATT: Now, let's work a little more. The most important acting you do is when you listen. You're worried about being able to cry when you're supposed to, right?
JEANNIE: Yes. So much.
MATT: Well, there are really only two ways to do it. Think of something that makes you really sad. or forget you're you and really forget you're How do I do that one?
JEANNIE: How do I do that one?
MATT: ( as a furious Black woman ) 'Don't test me, child! I could eat you for lunch when I was your age and I'm a hell of a lot bigger now!'
MATT: That's it. You just looked at me and acted right without even thinking. And there are games you can play to help you with this. Get up. Now, be my mirror. do exactly what I do. that's it. now, at a certain point, I'm going to become your mirror, but I'm not going to tell you when. you tell me.
JEANNIE: ( hesitantly )
MATT: ( enthusiastically ) Okay. We're going to make up words. The words aren't what matter now.
JEANNIE: I'm on a roof.
MATT: You're a great dad.
JEANNIE: You're a. They need you.
JEANNIE: She takes the A.D.'s hand as Matt calls.
MATT: You're welcome. Don't mention it.
MATT: I'm a free man. Let's go to your house and break the answering machine.
CATHY: You know, I could get away now. But I've got a big meeting later. We'd better take two cars.
CATHY: See you later. Thanks again.
MATT: I hope it's you.
MATT: ( delighted ) So this is how the big ones make
CATHY'S VOICE: Matt, will you take me off the
MATT: What's the matter?
CATHY: ( hyper ) I don't know whether I'm being a coward for telling you this way or brave for telling you period. Can you hear me?
MATT: But I better talk fast because this is where my phone always kicks out. When we did your screentest. Can you hear me?
CATHY: But I better talk fast because this is where my phone always kicks out. When we did your screentest. Can you hear me?
MATT: Well, I sort of folded on you at the
CATHY: Well, I sort of folded on you at the
CATHY: You didn't like what I did?
MATT: You didn't like what I did?
CATHY: I did. Truly. But the discussion got sort of dumb. It was a question of That's what it came down to?
MATT: That's what it came down to?
CATHY: Well, sort of, yes.
MATT: You folded on whether or not I'm sexy. You don't think I'm sexy. and you expressed that to.
CATHY: Well, I'll tell you. I certainly must think so pretty much because I feel great about where we're going
CATHY: Are you very mad at me?
MATT: No. You were just. Aw, damn it, I am. Very. Yes.
MATT'S POV: Cathy going out of sight.
ON MATT: As he lets her go.
FIRST VOICE: .number seven at the box office this week-end is.
THIRD VOICE: .becoming the first lawyer to be awarded his own star on Hollywood
BURKE: Hello, Nan. I hope it's not too late to call.
BURKE: I'd like another chance.
NAN: You only think you feel that way because you're on the verge of failure and you're without a core.
BURKE: See. Nobody else gets me. You wanna have a little sex, honey?
NAN: ( a beat then ) You know I've never hung up on anybody in my life. because what if the next thing they said solved everything. but I must end this
ON BURKE: He scrolls past numbers, considering, finding them wanting, so that, finally, he is scrolling the emptiness of his relationships. Now he considers one number and dials.
MATT: INTERCUT BETWEEN THE TWO
BURKE: Hi, Matt, this is Burke. I'm sorry to bother you at home, but you know Nan. We were going out a little and I could use another guy's slant on what's just happened.
MATT: I don't think I can get into this.
BURKE: Why? Did I catch you at a bad time?
MATT: Worse. You caught me at a bad time you caused.
BURKE: Oh, you mean about the screentest. The whole room thought you did good Yeah, look, I'm not going to bother you about my thing.
MATT: ( reinventing irony ) Yeah, look, I'm not going to bother you about my thing.
BURKE: Yeah, look, I'm not going to bother you about my thing.
MATT: Yeah. Okay, good night.
MATT'S POV: Across the stage to the distant make-up room. Jeannie, alone in the room, which is so brightly lit it creates a bizarre effect, as if she were under a surreal spotlight. MUSIC reprises Jeannie's Sinead O'Connor song, "Lonely Life of ON MATT Stopping his impulse to go to herhe continues to observe.
ON MATT: Stopping his impulse to go to herhe continues to observe.
MATT'S POV: Jeannie is nervous and uncertain. She plays with the handle of the make-up chair. turns herself back and forth. Then a very attractive TEN-YEAR-OLD BOY enters the sceneobviously telling her to hustle. He offers his hand and she takes it, instinctively masking all clues that this hand holding is a "first" of great moment in her life. As they move toward the main stage area, Jeannie looks around, needing something. her dad.
MATT: She turnssees her father and gives a small, cursory nod. He moves quickly, drawing even with her but still giving her a bit of space and a low-key pep talk.
MATT: Just remember. You're not even here tonight. There's only this other little girl that you're pretending to be who lives at Rainbow House.
JEANNIE: .and who just vomited.
JEANNIE: I just found out that we bow before we even do anything.
MATT: And everybody claps.
JEANNIE: And everybody claps.
MATT: I made up a great bow. You going to Wouldn't miss it.
JEANNIE: I made up a great bow. You going to Wouldn't miss it.
MATT: Wouldn't miss it.
JEANNIE: I'm not going to be able to cry. It's too hard for me.
MATT: Hey, then they'll just give you more chances after everyone leaves.
BURKE: Look at you. You're all here because of what's on the line for me tonight. Having this many people in your corner helps more than I would have ever guessed. I'm just very grateful that I made you come.
CATHY: Matt. Matt. Matt.
MATT: I don't want to miss her introduction.
CATHY: I'll talk fast. It's amazing news. Oliver Stone's been looking for a comedy and.
MATT: ( distracted ) I've got to see my kid.
CATHY: ( her voice breaking ) .he's doing my picture.
MATT: Hey. Good.
CATHY: Part of this involves you. He remembers you from 'Platoon' and wants to use you in this one. Got your attention, huh?
MATT: Oh, Cathy. Look, I'm going to watch this. Let me talk to you later or tomorrow. Thanks for your help. It's good news. Gotta go.
MATT: I'm sorry.
CATHY: I'm sorry.
MATT: Why couldn't you wait till later? I guess it's because I'm just incredibly insensitive to all human needs. I'd ask you to save me, but I'm so far gone, I wouldn't want you to waste your time.
CATHY: ( broadly ) I guess it's because I'm just incredibly insensitive to all human needs. I'd ask you to save me, but I'm so far gone, I wouldn't want you to waste your time.
MATT: ( after a moment )
CATHY: You know, I don't have a kid or a mate or a talent. I got this. And shoot me if I think it's
MATT'S POV: Cathy, who looks alone and adorable as we HEAR MUSIC of "THIS LONELY LIFE OF MINE." He puts a comforting hand on her. She speaks nakedly from deep within herself; her eyes downcast.
CATHY: You think I'm a superficial jerk. You can't be right.
MATT: I think you're the best of the bunch.
CATHY: ( broadly ) Oh, great.
BURKE'S POV: Happy faces accompanied by the strains of Burke's love song to the crowd.
BURKE: ( to Matt ) What do you think?
MATT: ( wide-eyed ) Wait. This is it.
JEANNIE: It's like everyone is pi. ticked off at me because I'm not colored.
BURKE: I had them bring in two busloads of people from black churches.
JEANNIE: Look at me, I.
ON JEANNIE: And Jeannie begins to falter. she must somehow cry at this moment. She looks outward for help.
JEANNIE'S POV: She looks at the Lead Actress giving Jeannie all she can.
JEANNIE'S POV: Her father nervously pulling for her.
WHOLE AUDIENCE: GROUP SHOT Matt, very much as he was when he watched Brando on the plane. and then some. Burke, craning to make sure the network bosses are suitably transported.
GROUP SHOT: Matt, very much as he was when he watched Brando on the plane. and then some. Burke, craning to make sure the network bosses are suitably transported.
JEANNIE: ( crying fully ) Look at me. I love an African Look at me. I love a little redneck.
ON BURKE: His lips pursed tightly in pleasure, then agape in shock.
BURKE'S POV: Jeannie has run past the Lead Actress and off the set, going into her father's arms instead. She jumps on him, her legs and arms wrapped around him.
MATT: ( pridefully ) You little stinker!
JEANNIE: You big stinker.
MATT: My little stinker.
JEANNIE: My big stinker.
FLOOR MANAGER: It's okay, Jeannie. Take a minute. We just need to get that hug at the Amazing, right?
MATT: ( to Floor Manager ) Amazing, right?
FLOOR MANAGER: ( to Jeannie ) You were great.
JEANNIE: Thank you. That's nice.
MATT: You look happy.
JEANNIE: I loved it, Daddy.
MATT: You want me to put you down?
JEANNIE: No. This is okay.
MATT: Okay. Now, you're not finished until you hug the lady just like you did me.
MATT: I'm very proud of you. I love you more than anybody.
JEANNIE: When I had to cry, I thought of you buried in the ground.
MATT: ( a beat, then ) Give me a kiss.
JEANNIE: ( overwhelmed ) There's more? ( then ) What will I wear?
ON JEANNIE: She moves to her dressing tablesits, looks in the mirror and giggles uncontrollably.
NAN: It didn't sell.
MATT: This show didn't sell?!? How do you know so fast?
NAN: It's the first time they had me do cards for a pilot and the demographics are all wrong for after nine o'clock. That's their only opening.
NAN: Hi. I'm Nan. I'm a good friend of your Dad's.
JEANNIE: Hello, Nan. I'm Jeannie. Did you see Yes, and you were wonderful. 89 percent likeability. And knowing that you were that good means so much more than the show not Oh, no. I couldn't help it.
NAN: ( to Jeannie ) Yes, and you were wonderful. ( aside to Matt ) 89 percent likeability. ( to Jeannie ) And knowing that you were that good means so much more than the show not Oh, no. ( to Matt ) I couldn't help it.
JEANNIE: Oh, no. I couldn't help it.
NAN: Oh, no. I couldn't help it.
JEANNIE: What does she mean? What do you mean? What does she mean? What do you mean?
MATT: That they're not going to be doing any more of these shows right now Oh, my God.
JEANNIE: ( struck ) Oh, my God.
MATT: And that means they're not going to have a party?
JEANNIE: And that means they're not going to have a party?
MATT: No. They're still having the party.
JEANNIE: ( totally relieved ) Oh. really?. good. can we stay
MATT: Honey, we're going to close the place.
ON JEANNIE: As her father urges her into the flow. She passes Millie, who is dancing with the boy who held Jeannie's hand.
MILLIE: I cast him so he has to dance with me, but I'm sure he'd prefer dancing with you.
BOY: ( to Jeannie ) Come on. You know how?
JEANNIE: ( angrily, with disdain )
BURKE: I'm not comfortable with television anyway. it's too small. I'm much better at something with size. I don't do itzy. Even this movie of Cathy'sit's small. medium small. But with Stone it takes on a certain volume where I start to feel I hate my life. .in a way. I had a drink in my office. I'm confused. You're not saying anything. Is it because you're not listening or because I haven't stopped talking?
MATT: This Oliver Stone thing. does he really want me?
BURKE: Yeah. Oh, yeah. I forgot to say Which part?
MATT: Which part?
BURKE: Which one you want?
MATT: One of the two leads wouldn't be No. It's the crippled factory owner.
BURKE: No. It's the crippled factory owner.
MATT: Best part in the movie.
BURKE: Wait a second.
MATT: I want to see my kid.
BURKE: A secondlook, they're taking the cast picture now anyway.
THEIR POV: Jeannie, working her way to the absolute middle of the cast picture, where she plops on someone's lap.
BURKE: She doesn't look anything like the women I usually go with. And you know what they say, "beauty fades." What they don't say is that it fades very slowly.
MATT: You don't think I can tell you what to do?
BURKE: No. Only I can do that. I want you to tell me what to feel. Look. I trust her. More important, everyone does. You have no idea how impressed people are with her. She's smart. She's interesting. You never know what she'll say next. Her work is amazing. I like talking to her. You have no idea what to expect next. I respect what she does more than any writer or directorsincerely much more unusualmuch more important. So?
MATT: Good luck.
BURKE: Dance with me. On a business basis.
NAN: ( he turns away, dejected ) But I'll dance with you because I think it will reassure me that I should have nothing to do with you.
BURKE: I'll take it.
NAN: Why are you breathing so heavy?
BURKE: Nervous. Look, let's move our thing in a more regular direction.
NAN: What do you mean?
BURKE: Let me think. What if we go out this weekend. .with your kid.
NAN: .whose name is?
BURKE: Whose name is.
NAN: SONG BACK"WOW". sung as a chorus. a slower cadence for the romance as we. CHANGE MUSIC and they dance more closely. The song slows for time passage and MUSIC CHANGES to "BE MY MIRROR" as we.
JEANNIE: ( looking around satisfied ) Last ones here.
MATT: Well, I told you. I never got to see your bow.
MATT: I never got to see your bow.
JEANNIE: ( as if it's a great sacrifice ) Oh, all right.
THE END: Writers : James L. Brooks
