CONDUCTOR: Good morning ladies and gentlemen He sounds like a baseball announcer.
PASSENGERS: ( mumbling, ad lib ) What ladies?
CONDUCTOR: this train originating at New York's Grand Central Station is back in service - next stop will be New Canaan, Connecticut. New Canaan, Connecticut, next stop! He moves on to the next car. The train begins to move. Paul rubs his elbow against the window and looks out into the still-dark early morning. He looks back down at his comic book. On the comic book: Reed Richards ( also known as Stretch ) has zapped his young son with a cosmic ray gun to neutralize the destructive energy that Annihilus has implanted in him. The Thing, Medusa, Flame, and Richards' wife Sue Storm look on, stunned.
FRANCIS: Arise and shine, young Hood.
PAUL: I hope you changed the water in that bong from last night.
FRANCIS: ( finishing a hit ) The water, as you call it, is a special mixture of amaretto and Ben&Ben blended for just the exact chemical interaction with the last of our precious Thai stick. Paul reluctantly walks over and takes a hit. He coughs, spewing uninhaled smoke.
PAUL: ( gathering books, papers, Man, Francis, you are one drug addled elitist freak, and when the revolution comes I do not want to be lined up with you and shot, 'cause you're fucking ripe for political reeducation, you know, like in the fields.
FRANCIS: Paul, cancel your mental appointments, baby. What are you, like still stoned from last night?
PAUL: ( spraying some chloroform I gotta get to English class.
TEACHER: What Dostoyevsky is saying here is that to be a Christian is to choose, because you have to choose of your own choice, but since you can't choose to be good because that would be too rational you have to choose to be bad it's Thank you Libbets, that's a very compelling summary, but Paul looks at her, smitten. Marge, Paul's friend, notices his INT. ST. PETER'S HALLWAY. DAY As class lets out, Paul accosts Libbets.
LIBBETS: What Dostoyevsky is saying here is that to be a Christian is to choose, because you have to choose of your own choice, but since you can't choose to be good because that would be too rational you have to choose to be bad it's Thank you Libbets, that's a very compelling summary, but Paul looks at her, smitten. Marge, Paul's friend, notices his INT. ST. PETER'S HALLWAY. DAY As class lets out, Paul accosts Libbets.
TEACHER: Thank you Libbets, that's a very compelling summary, but Paul looks at her, smitten. Marge, Paul's friend, notices his INT. ST. PETER'S HALLWAY. DAY As class lets out, Paul accosts Libbets.
PAUL: Um, Libbets. Hey, Dostoyevsky, I'm also really a fan, and what you were saying, you know, have you ever read The Idiot?
LIBBETS: The Idiot?
PAUL: If you liked Notes from Underground, you'll love The Idiot.
LIBBETS: ( turning to go ) Great, thanks for the tip.
PAUL: ( after her ) The Idiot.
PAUL: I'm in love with Libbets Casey.
MARGE: Yeah, well, you've been in love with like every other girl here, I was wondering when you'd get around to Libbets.
PAUL: It's beyond mere physical That's good, because I don't think Libbets is capable of the sex act.
MARGE: That's good, because I don't think Libbets is capable of the sex act.
PAUL: Truly? Do speak.
MARGE: My diagnosis is messed in the head. A poor little rich girl I mean check out the jeans and fur look. And lend your ears to this brutality. Like her mom and step dad and her step-sisters are going to Switzerland to ski over Thanksgiving break and like they didn't invite her!
PAUL: How do you know this shit?
MARGE: They did it last year too. It's like traditional or something. They've got this humongoid Park Ave apartment and she just holes up there with a wad of cash. Aren't the hugely wealthy sad?
PAUL: ( pause ) You think Francis is going to beat me to the punch here?
MARGE: Since he sleeps with every girl you ever show an interest in, why don't you just keep your Libbets thing a secret from him?
PAUL: Good thinking Marge.
PAUL: No more man. I'm about to drop as it is.
FRANCIS: See ya.
PAUL: Where you going?
FRANCIS: Paul, let me enlighten you about You and I exist on two opposite sides of a great existential divide, that being your pathetic virginity on the one hand and my astonishing number of sexual conquests on the other. I'm off to get laid. See you.
PAUL: Flame on, asshole.
FRANCIS: And remember, with your erogenous zones lubricated as such with the mighty herb, do not attempt terrestrial contact with members of the opposite sex because you drone on like a motherfucker when you're stoned. He waves his fingers toward Paul's eyes, in the classic "stoned" gesture, then wanders off. Paul looks on at the gathering. Marge waves to him from the dance floor.
PAUL: ( stoned ) because I've been reading Kerouac and Ginsberg and those guys were creating beat culture and traveling and sleeping wherever, and, of course, with all kinds of people, but when you read carefully the various contemporary accounts of their lives, and, uh, these guys didn't bathe much, I mean they were really filthy, with like genital crabs, lice, exceptionally strong body odor. Libbets smiles through her yawn.
PAUL: How can you do that man?
FRANCIS: Do what?
PAUL: Sleep all day. I mean, look, it's already getting dark outside, and you're just getting up.
FRANCIS: ( beat ) Um, Libbets Casey.
PAUL: Aha! I could sense the vibe.
FRANCIS: Aha! I could sense the vibe.
PAUL: What do you mean?
FRANCIS: Am I right or am I right?
PAUL: Shit. You're not planning
FRANCIS: My man, I speak to you solely as a comrade in arms offering unconditional aid. I've been giving this one a lot of thought, and I believe that the two of you together might just reach that higher ground that A knock at the door.
PAUL: Don't mess with Libbets. I mean it!
PAUL: INTERCUT - HOOD HOUSEHOLD. NIGHT It's a modern ( shag carpet, geometric-patterned wallpaper, etc. ) suburban house. Ben Hood talks on the phone, a drink in his hand.
BEN: In the background, we can see Wendy watching Richard Nixon on
PAUL: Hi dad.
BEN: Hey guy. Things ok up there? You all right?
PAUL: I'm fine dad.
BEN: Well good. Just confirming. You'll be on the 3:50 Wednesday afternoon.
PAUL: Well dad, actually I thought I'd take the morning train on Thanksgiving got a lot of studying, papers, you know, lab Lab experiments? Right smart guy Paul, you know your mother's gonna be disappointed not to see more of you In fact, let me make this more than a simple request guy, I think you should.
BEN: Lab experiments? Right smart guy Paul, you know your mother's gonna be disappointed not to see more of you In fact, let me make this more than a simple request guy, I think you should.
NIXON: ( on TV, from San Clemente Well, with regard to the questions as to why Americans feel we were wrong to make the tapes, that is not particularly surprising. I think that most Americans do not like the idea of taping conversations and, frankly, it is not something that particularly appeals to me.
BEN: Hold on for a second. Wendy, you want-to say hi to your She frowns.
WENDY: Charles. Have you been keeping out of my shit? Have you refrained from entering the sacred precincts of my I have not touched your sh Stuff. You watching this?
PAUL: Charles. Have you been keeping out of my shit? Have you refrained from entering the sacred precincts of my I have not touched your sh Stuff. You watching this?
WENDY: I have not touched your sh Stuff. You watching this?
PAUL: Watching what?
WENDY: Nixon, doofus! It's incredible. He should be shot.
BEN: ( overhearing ) Hey, that's the president of the goddam United States you're talking about, Wendy! From the kitchen, Elena overhears. She's dressed to go out, but in the process of making a Kraft macaroni and cheese dinner for Wendy.
WENDY: He's a liar! Dean told him on March 21st about Kalmback and Hunt, all about the payoffs to the Watergate burglars, so you tell me where the so-called "Dean Report" is, but you can't because it doesn't exist, because he lied about Haldeman and Erlichman and the April 17 tape, that's why! Liar! Ben retreats, going to the wet bar to pour another drink.
BEN: ( muttering ) OK, OK, the defense rests. ( to Elena in the kitchen ) Want another?
BEN: He puts the bottle back down without pouring.
PAUL: ( on the phone ) Hey Charles. Charles, calm down I wasn't in on it. Elena, putting on her coat, comes into the den and gives Wendy a kiss on the forehead as Wendy mumbles her good-byes to Paul on the phone.
ELENA: Dinner's on the counter. We'll be at the Williams's you know the Paul. Hi. Is there anything you'll want, any particular kind of food or snack or anything we can stock up on?. You're all right? . OK. See you next week. I love you. Back to Nixon on the TV.
NIXON: We must recognize that one excess begets another, and that the extremes of violence in the 1960s contributed to the extremes of On Wendy as she regards the TV, hearing her parents' farewells as they leave through the front door.
BEN: His brother came back
DOROTHY: From where?
BEN: Oh. Are we going to talk about this, about.?
DOROTHY: Oh. Are we going to talk about this, about.?
ELENA: You should hear. It's very sad, he Janey is whispering something into Mikey's ear, who returns to the kitchen.
JIM: It was a benefit for the ACLU or something, and Harry Reems himself was there
DOROTHY: The man with the from Deep The very one something about a first amendment defense fund well I believe in it
JIM: The very one something about a first amendment defense fund well I believe in it
DOROTHY: Ted took me to see it.
JANEY: Ted, how romantic.
DOROTHY: I have to say, the movie didn't do much for me. But being in that theater, surrounded by all those horny young college boys and perverts, there was something in the air that
JIM: pulls right up to the pump, jumps out like there's no gas shortage, oblivious, and by this point everybody in line's piling out of their cars ready to kill the guy, when they notice it's that Reverend Edwards
BEN: The Unitarian? The new one?
JIM: Yeah claims he pulled off Creek Road and didn't notice the line going back Mill Street for half a He's either got his head in the clouds or up his
BEN: He's either got his head in the clouds or up his
DOROTHY: I hear he's slept with half the women in his congregation
TED: Lucky bastard! As this is said, Mikey accidentally spills some wine on Ben.
BEN: Hell! I mean, no problemo there Mikey. Here, I Janey leans over with her napkin and attempts a cursory wipe of Ben's pants. Is there a just barely noticeable frisson between Ben and Janey as she removes the napkin? If there is, Elena doesn't or pretends not to notice.
DOROTHY: ( unconvincing ) So fascinating. Do you get free tickets to the movies, that kind of No, my job is just to analyze the entertainment stocks and advise our institutional investors on where to put their money. It's
BEN: No, my job is just to analyze the entertainment stocks and advise our institutional investors on where to put their money. It's
ELENA: Don't be so modest, Ben. It's a job that requires a certain prescience with regards to entertainment trends. You were the first to predict that Billy Jack would be a And as usual no one believed me. The dinner party has moved to the living room for after dinner drinks. Elena remains behind to help Janey pick up the table. She stacks a plate on top of another.
BEN: ( with a bit too much And as usual no one believed me. The dinner party has moved to the living room for after dinner drinks. Elena remains behind to help Janey pick up the table. She stacks a plate on top of another.
JANEY: Please don't.
ELENA: It's not a bother.
JANEY: I insist. Don't touch them. Elena realizes that there's an edge to Janey's voice.
ELENA: ( realizing she's gone too It's really quite all right.
JANEY: ( realizing she's gone too It's really quite all right.
ELENA: Of course.
DOROTHY: And to think they met at a key party of all things.
ELENA: A key party?
DOROTHY: You know, it's a California thing. That scuzzy husband of hers dragged her kicking and screaming to one when they were out in L.A. you know, the men put their car keys in a bowl, and then at the end of the evening the women line up and fish them out and go home with whoever's keys they've got. Anyhow that's how she met this Rod person or whatever his name is and he's left his wife and she's packing for California. Irwin is devastated. It's so Well, um, yes. Ironic. His name is INT. WILLIAMS FRONT HALLWAY. NIGHT The guests are leaving. The men shake hands, the women kiss, and the men and women awkwardly peck each others' cheeks.
JANEY: ( caught out ) Well, um, yes. Ironic. His name is INT. WILLIAMS FRONT HALLWAY. NIGHT The guests are leaving. The men shake hands, the women kiss, and the men and women awkwardly peck each others' cheeks.
DOROTHY: ( caught out ) Well, um, yes. Ironic. His name is INT. WILLIAMS FRONT HALLWAY. NIGHT The guests are leaving. The men shake hands, the women kiss, and the men and women awkwardly peck each others' cheeks.
ELENA: Thank you Janey.
DOROTHY: It was lovely!
BEN: Hey Jim, next time you've got to fill me in on whatever it is you're up to these days.
JIM: Will do.
SANDY: ( pause, looking sullenly Is Wendy Hood your girlfriend?
MIKEY: ( not looking up, but Who said so?
SANDY: No one.
MIKEY: I don't have a girlfriend. Mikey returns to his reading a copy of The Sensuous Woman, obviously well pawed over. He absentmindedly picks his nose. As he flips the pages, a beautiful, almost electrical HUMMING SOUND begins to fill his ears. He frowns and pauses to listen to it. Sandy, who has picked up a balsa wood miniature plane, obviously doesn't hear it. Mikey focuses on the plane as Sandy waves it through the air. Perhaps the hum is the sound of its engines as it soars through the sky.
WENDY: he knows that when the March 24th tape you know with Dean, where Dean tells him that there's a cancer growing on the presidency She pauses as Beth asks a question.
BEN: You'd think she'd learn how to cook a chicken, eh? My drumstick was still frozen when you cut inside there. I'm probably going to get whatever that disease and Jim, how that guy ever became a He pauses before a hall table, and, with his eyes, traces the telephone cord under Wendy's room.
BEN: Get to sleep young lady and I mean it. Wendy opens the door to her room.
WENDY: If I were a fascist I would have sent you to one of those Southern military academies a long time ago. Now get to bed. She slams the door. He opens it.
BEN: If I were a fascist I would have sent you to one of those Southern military academies a long time ago. Now get to bed. She slams the door. He opens it.
BEN: Wendy jumps into bed and under the covers, pulling them up over her head. He stands over her, looking down at the crumpled pile of sheet and blanket.
WENDY: ( without pulling the sheet Good-night dad.
BEN: Good night kiddo. Ben turns to the door, where he sees a silent Elena standing in her nightgown, a slight smile on her face.
ELENA: ( without opening her eyes ) You're staring at me.
BEN: I wasn't star
ELENA: I've been thinking, Ben, about Wendy. I was going to ask if she'd come with me sometime to meet Dr. That shrink the one you always wanted me to see? I thought you dropped him.
BEN: That shrink the one you always wanted me to see? I thought you dropped him.
ELENA: I did, but somebody should probably see her, talk to her. You think she's ok?
BEN: Why shouldn't she be? Elena just gives him a look, more sad than angry.
ELENA: So maybe you'll come too?
BEN: Oh not again Elena! If we've got problems, why can't you just come out and talk about them.
ELENA: It's you Ben who needs to talk. I've had my say, and I'm waiting to hear back from you.
BEN: Yeah but Elena, even you don't believe all that "I'm OK. You're OK" stuff you keep babbling about you say so yourself. I've been all ears for about ten years now on his subject, and
ELENA: And you haven't moved out yet. It's because you're too lazy, Ben. Too scared or lazy to either deal with us or simply make a decision
BEN: ( sighing ) Sleep in the study? Please. Ben picks up a pillow and walks out, pausing wistfully at the Good night.
ELENA: ( sighing ) Sleep in the study? Please. Ben picks up a pillow and walks out, pausing wistfully at the Good night.
BEN: Good night.
ELENA: Good night.
BEN: But what, exactly, is stagflation, this mixture of inflation and stagnation, and how should we in the securities industry understand and accommodate it? Well and I hope I'm not out of bounds here - think of the money supply as a large male organ, continuously inflating, and yet, the societal vaginal cavity simply wants more. As the vicious circle of higher returns without real satisfaction continues, the money-organ may seem to be in demand, but in fact even the most inflated capital is unwanted. This is why I suggest that while we engage this mawing abyss for the highest returns, we at the same time fantasize, so to speak, of the safe harbor of capital appreciation. The aging boss nods agreement.
SHACKLEY: ( more or less mumbling ) Brilliant, brilliant. George Clair just grins.
GEORGE: Hey there Benjie, you're becoming quite the in-house philosopher. When do you have time to think up all that stuff Shackley sure eats it up.
BEN: George, I'm just trying to get a global view of things can't just look at the small picture. There's an obvious rivalry between the two of them.
GEORGE: And speaking of which, you have those market share charts Mr. Shackley was asking about?
BEN: Gotcha George, not a problem. Tomorrow. Hey, you want to start covering the old filmed entertainment sector yourself?
GEORGE: Ben you know that's your territory - and I wouldn't dream to trespass - you're the expert. Hey, how do you think Paramount's gonna do with that Blatty novel, what's it called? The Exorcist?
BEN: Overpriced bomb, cost over $6 million no stars, and no one's into the horror genre these days anyway. I'm advising the company recommend reducing positions there. It's disaster films that are gonna stay at the top.
GEORGE: Brilliant. Hey, you heading out a little early today?
BEN: Got a meeting uptown.
GEORGE: ( already moving off ) Right o'.
BEN: Up the organization! The secretary pretends not to hear.
HAROLD: ( waylaying a passing I'd asked for that double martini about three hours ago!
WAITER: Coming right up, sir.
HAROLD: So asking me out for lunch what prompted this exceptional event? Of course I'm paying.
BEN: We don't have to always go to your club, dad.
HAROLD: And why are you still calling me dad? You're forty years old already, and
BEN: Well what am I supposed to call That's besides the point. The martini arrives, along with Ben's beer.
HAROLD: That's besides the point. The martini arrives, along with Ben's beer.
BEN: I was actually trying to see about getting a little advice, you know
HAROLD: Advice? I'm supposed to be getting the stock tips from you, Ben. Unless - have you quit your job? They fired you?
BEN: You know, dah He looks up and sees his father slurping his martini, not paying attention.
HAROLD: Oh for crying out loud Ben, you don't mean to tell me that your marriage is going down the drain Well, Elena and I have kind of been talking, not really talking, but
BEN: Well, Elena and I have kind of been talking, not really talking, but
HAROLD: Your mother, God bless her, stood by me for forty-two years we never once contemplated divorce - I assume you're talking here about divorce? The very thought
BEN: But dad, you guys truly hated each other, I mean really hated each
HAROLD: Waiter! Where's my cobb salad? ( back to Ben ) You want advice Ben? If your big brother were still alive I'd have him go out into the back yard and beat some sense into your head. Look kid, you married that woman against my advice
BEN: What advice? You never
HAROLD: That's besides the point. The point is if I'd had any sense in me I'd have divorced your mother 40 years ago, and that's the truth, and here it is, 1972
BEN: 73, and divorce is as easy as paying off a traffic ticket, and for crying out loud, Ben, be a man and just get it over with. I would have if I'd had the chance. Ben ponders, as the food arrives.
HAROLD: 73, and divorce is as easy as paying off a traffic ticket, and for crying out loud, Ben, be a man and just get it over with. I would have if I'd had the chance. Ben ponders, as the food arrives.
BEN: ( weakly ) But what?
HAROLD: But what?
BEN: But I well maybe I love her. His father rolls his eyes and stabs his salad with a fork.
HAROLD: Christ Ben! Make up your mind and eat your lunch.
PHILIP: Elena. Elena Hood, am I right?
ELENA: Reverend Edwards. Philip Edwards. You came by and checked out the congregation a couple of times last Yes, it was I ended up
PHILIP: Reverend Edwards. Philip Edwards. You came by and checked out the congregation a couple of times last Yes, it was I ended up
ELENA: Yes, it was I ended up
PHILIP: ( smiling ) No need to make excuses
BETH: ( referring to one of the She said you licked Dave Brewster's weenie in the third floor bathroom.
WENDY: She's a liar. I wouldn't touch Dave Brewster's dick if you paid me. It's probably crawling with v.d. after he put it in her, which he The conversation peters out at this point, as the two groups of girls give each other the hairy eyeball from afar. Wendy looks through from beneath the bleacher seats onto the field where the boys are playing. A group of boys break from a huddle, Mikey among them. The quarterback takes the hike and Mikey runs out for a pass. As he runs, his breathing increases in volume, filling his ears, and transforming into the humming sound he'd heard The quarterback spots him and throws a long one. He runs in an oblivion of beautiful white sound. The ball drops next to him as he continues, in a world of his own, to run. Suddenly, the humming ends and he stops and turns around, to see all the other kids just standing there looking at him. One of them makes a pot-smoking gesture, as if that's the Did anybody hear that? The other kids snicker. Wendy looks on, and catches Mikey's eye for a fleeting moment.
MIKEY: ( as he returns to the Did anybody hear that? The other kids snicker. Wendy looks on, and catches Mikey's eye for a fleeting moment.
WENDY: I gotta go. She takes hold of her bicycle and pushes off.
PHILIP: It's been a tremendously transformative year maybe a little controversial of course, but we're breaking down the old Unitarian barriers
ELENA: I suppose my reluctance was the group aspect of it I've never been much of a joiner, although I still consider myself a somewhat religious person
PHILIP: Well I of course flatter myself that our church is not exactly what most people would call organized religion at times it's the disorganization that's liberating and of course I've begun to minister much more in what one might call therapeutic environments, in small groups, and one on one, couples Elena looks outside the window, and sees Wendy speed past on her bicycle.
ELENA: ( cutting him off ) My daughter. I haven't been on a bike for years. ( still not really looking When was the last time you rode a ( a bit taken aback by the They say you never forget.
PHILIP: ( a bit taken aback by the They say you never forget.
ELENA: ( jarred back to his Forget what?
PHILIP: Forget how to ride a bike. No, of course you don't, you're EXT. FIVE AND DIME STORE. DAY Wendy pulls her bike up to the back, locks it, and walks in.
ELENA: No, of course you don't, you're EXT. FIVE AND DIME STORE. DAY Wendy pulls her bike up to the back, locks it, and walks in.
SANDY: Hey Wendy.
WENDY: Hey Sandy.
SANDY: Mikey was looking for you.
WENDY: Yeah? See ya. She pushes off on her bike. Sandy gazes after her. He takes his G.I. Joe out of his coat pocket, and points it at her.
SANDY: EXT. SUBURBAN STREETS. DAY Wendy flies along on her bike. It's a desolately beautiful fall day.
MIKEY: Want some gum?
WENDY: ( pulling them out of her ( opens his mouth, I'm chewing. She puts the Twinkies back, and pops the gum in her mouth. They stand together chewing.
MIKEY: ( opens his mouth, I'm chewing. She puts the Twinkies back, and pops the gum in her mouth. They stand together chewing.
WENDY: ( after a pause ) Did you tell Sandy?
MIKEY: Tell Sandy? What? Wendy doesn't say anything.
BEN: We were golfing, and you know, golfing to me is something I'm supposed to enjoy, and I was on the goddam golf team in college, so it's something one would assume I do well I used to do well but basically these days golfing for me is like hoeing, or plowing. Janey smiles briefly at this.
JANEY: ( gently ) You're boring me. I have a husband. I don't particularly feel the need for another.
BEN: ( gently ) You're boring me. I have a husband. I don't particularly feel the need for another.
JANEY: ( gently ) You're boring me. I have a husband. I don't particularly feel the need for another.
BEN: You have a point there. That's a very good point. We're having an affair. Right. An explicitly sexual relationship. Your needs. My needs. You're absolutely right.
JANEY: You should probably get dressed. The boys will be home soon.
BEN: She wraps a blanket around herself and gets up.
WENDY: Hi mom.
ELENA: Hi Wendy. Without waiting for instructions, Wendy starts pulling out plates and silverware and setting the table.
WENDY: With Mikey?
ELENA: Mikey Williams?
WENDY: Mikey Williams?
ELENA: Mikey Williams?
WENDY: We were just riding around. Elena takes this in.
ELENA: Well, you looked very free when I saw you. Wendy continues setting the table.
WENDY: Mom. Are you ok?
ELENA: Wendy, of course. I'm sorry. You must think I'm ripe to be checked into Silver Meadows.
WENDY: You're not a psycho!
ELENA: The people at Silver Meadows aren't I know. They're rich drug addicts and celebrities. When I saw James Taylor there, and
WENDY: I know. They're rich drug addicts and celebrities. When I saw James Taylor there, and
ELENA: We've been through this Wendy James Taylor was actually at that clinic up near Boston.
WENDY: Well, I saw what I saw, and if you don't want to believe me
ELENA: Oh Wendy. Wendy frowns.
WENDY: They need the money for my band uniform at school.
ELENA: I thought you quit the band - I never hear you practice anymore.
WENDY: I don't really need to practice. I just play a few notes, you know, so I thought maybe I'd stay in.
ELENA: Well, I'm sure your father and I would love to hear what you're playing these days. Maybe after INT. HOOD LIVING ROOM. NIGHT Ben and Elena take their seats on the sofa. Wendy stands before them holding an enormous trombone, with a music stand and sheet music in front of her. She puffs a series of seemingly disconnected notes in waltz When she's done, she looks up from the sheet music to her They applaud.
BEN: Can't wait to see how it fits in with all the other instruments. Elena gives him a look.
ELENA: The Halfords have invited us again this year.
BEN: You want to go?
ELENA: What do you think?
BEN: Well, it is a neighborhood He comes up behind her, looks down at the checkbook.
ELENA: So early?
BEN: Rough day. Good night. He leans over and kisses her on the cheek. She sniffs.
ELENA: Is that a new aftershave? He recoils a bit.
BEN: Oh yeah. Musk, or something. You like it?
ELENA: Hmm. Good night. He walks uncertainly from the room. Does she suspect?
SANDY: Sure, anything but this English. Sandy puts the open textbook in front of him.
MIKEY: Sure, anything but this English. Sandy puts the open textbook in front of him.
SANDY: Sure, anything but this English. Sandy puts the open textbook in front of him.
MIKEY: Sure, anything but this English. Sandy puts the open textbook in front of him.
SANDY: Why are you so good at math but not in English?
MIKEY: I'm not good at math. Just He looks at the book.
SANDY: Yeah. But I just need some help with my homework. A knock at the door. Jim stands in the doorway with a suitcase in his hand.
JIM: Hey guys, I'm back.
MIKEY: ( honestly confused ) You were gone? Sandy looks at Mikey as if pondering a lost cause.
JIM: ( a look of disappointment ) Yeah Mikey. Yep, I was in Houston, working on some great new ideas about silicon, which comes from sand, very conductive. How you guys doing? How's school? Mikey's still flustered.
MIKEY: Uh, I dunno. OK I guess.
JIM: Hmm. Alright! He walks off.
SANDY: You really didn't notice? Man, he's been gone for three days.
JANEY: Good trip? He nods and puts his suitcase down, then sits heavily on the side of the bed.
JIM: ( as he sits ) You bet. It turns out it's a water bed, and his weight creates a wave that nearly pushes Janey off her edge of the bed.
JANEY: Jesus, Jim!
JIM: ( jumping up, which only Sorry honey. Hell, we've got to trade this thing in for a normal Just be careful.
JANEY: Just be careful.
JIM: ( as he begins to unpack ) You notice anything with Mikey lately? The kid seemed a little out of it tonight, eh?
JANEY: Tonight? Jim, he's been out of it since he was born.
JIM: Hell, I guess he takes after me, He laughs to himself. She gives him a look.
PHILIP: In many ways, the church-bound tradition of the father, son, and holy ghost is simply a version of the parent-child-adult triad within us all. It's a primitive set of symbols for our inner psychology.
ELENA: You're saying that Christ is the child, and
PHILIP: And God the angry parent, and the Spirit the hope of an integrated adult self.
ELENA: All well and good But tell me again what is it exactly that you believe in?
PHILIP: You ask what the point is?
ELENA: That's right.
PHILIP: Self-realization. Ministering to help people reach their fullest potential. Would you believe me if I told you I want you to see yourself reach your fullest potential and self-realization?
ELENA: I would say it sounds like you're trying to get me into bed.
PHILIP: If that's a potential you see yourself fulfilling. I mean. My, I sound a bit
ELENA: I'm sorry. That was stupid of me. I didn't mean to be so rude.
PHILIP: You weren't. You actually, for some reason, you have the effect on me of making me feel just a tiny bit ashamed of myself.
ELENA: But not too ashamed.
PHILIP: ( smiling ) Now you are being rude.
ELENA: And you're still trying to get me into bed.
PHILIP: Just then, Dorothy Franklin passes by their table, a smirk firmly implanted on her face.
DOROTHY: Hello you two. Am I barging in on some kind of religious study group? Elena, you look marvelous. Will I see you and Ben at the Halford's?
ELENA: I suppose we'll make an appearance.
DOROTHY: And Reverend Edwards? Did you make the list?
PHILIP: ( laughing ) I believe so Mrs. Franklin.
DOROTHY: With the two of you there it will be positively a revival! I'm off! She scurries out of the coffee shop.
PHILIP: I'm afraid she's something of a gossip, isn't she?
ELENA: ( gathering her things to I'm afraid people around here provide her with quite a bit to gossip about. ( getting up ) Take care.
PHILIP: That I will indeed.
MIKEY: Because of molecules we are connected to the outside world from our bodies. Like when you smell things, because when you smell a smell it's not really a smell, it's a part of the object that has come off of it molecules. So when you smell something bad, it's like in a way you're eating it. This is why you should not really smell things, in the same way that you don't eat everything in the world around you - because as a smell, it gets inside of you. So the next time you go into the bathroom after someone else has been there, remember what kinds of molecules you are in fact An embarrassed silence.
HAROLD: It's not the taxes I object to. It's all the fines and penalties.
BEN: Alright dad. But you sold the house, you didn't tell anyone, including the IRS, and I'd of certainly liked to have seen if there was any old stuff
HAROLD: It was all junk! Another pause. Ben decides not to pursue an overworked topic.
BEN: Oh. Elena wanted to know when we could expect you on Thanksgiving. It's just going to be you this Ben, I'm going to Florida. I hate Thanksgiving and I hate the cold. I have a new nurse. She's a negro, she weighs three hundred pounds, and I've decided to leave my entire estate to her. Ben spits his drink out.
HAROLD: Ben, I'm going to Florida. I hate Thanksgiving and I hate the cold. I have a new nurse. She's a negro, she weighs three hundred pounds, and I've decided to leave my entire estate to her. Ben spits his drink out.
BEN: Jesus, Benjamin, you're still as gullible as ever.
HAROLD: Jesus, Benjamin, you're still as gullible as ever.
BEN: That was a joke? You don't tell I thought I'd start trying. If you don't mind. But I am going to Florida and I do have a new nurse.
HAROLD: I thought I'd start trying. If you don't mind. But I am going to Florida and I do have a new nurse.
JANEY: Need a lift?
ELENA: Thanks again. For the dinner.
JANEY: Thanks for eating it. I don't know why I even pretend I can cook.
ELENA: I used to know how to cook.
JANEY: It's not like we're too busy. They smile, barely.
ELENA: I'm thinking of going back to Social work?
JANEY: Social work?
ELENA: How'd you know?
JANEY: Educated guess.
ELENA: I'm that predictable? No, you don't have to answer that. It's just that with the kids almost grown
JANEY: You don't have to apologize. I'm too much of a cynic. You actually seem to be trying to figure things out don't mind me. She pulls the car over.
JANEY: Here you are.
ELENA: ( opening her door ) Thanks for the lift. If the bike's any bother
JANEY: None at all. I'll leave it in front of your garage. Happy Thanksgiving.
KILLED!": Paul sits reading on his way home.
JANEY: Sandy looks up busted. Janey marches over to him.
SANDY: You going to tell dad?
JANEY: Would it matter? And what's that?
SANDY: ( sniffling ) You know, it's the whip the one uncle Frank got me from Mexico.
JANEY: It's not packed with explosives, is Play with the whip.
SANDY: ( going into the house ) Play with the whip.
JANEY: ( going into the house ) Play with the whip.
JANEY: Oh. Hi Wendy.
WENDY: Hi Mrs. Williams.
JANEY: Mikey, have you heard the explosions coming from the Do you know what Sandy's been up I dunno. She pauses, then walks into the kitchen.
MIKEY: ( honestly oblivious, as I dunno. She pauses, then walks into the kitchen.
JANEY: Don't you kids have homework?
WENDY: After you. Sandy hesitantly opens the door, as Wendy still hovers by it.
SANDY: Well, you can.
WENDY: Hey Sandy, what were you blowing up out there? Your mom was pretty All my model planes.
SANDY: All my model planes.
WENDY: The ones you built?
SANDY: They were old. And they couldn't fly anyhow. I'm going to get a radio-controlled airplane at Christmas, and then I'll stuff it full of m-80s and then fly it into Mrs. Burgess's English class and blow it up.
WENDY: I have to go to the bathroom.
SANDY: But he stays put, unaware it seems that he's blocking the Wendy looks around no one in sight.
WENDY: I'll show you mine if you show me Sandy goes wide eyed, and almost against his will backs into the bathroom like a feather.
SANDY: What do you want?! What do you want? Get out! Get out of here! The door flips open and Janey Williams appears.
JANEY: ( sizing up the situation ) INT. MASTER BEDROOM. DAY Janey is giving Wendy a lecture
JANEY: A person's body is his temple, Wendy. This body is your first and last possession. Now as your own parents have probably told you, in adolescence our bodies tend to betray us. That's why, in Samoa and in other developing nations, adolescents are sent out into the woods, unarmed, and they don't come back until they've learned a thing or two.
MIKEY: I don't ever want to see you.
WENDY: Then why'd you come after me?
BEN: Elena. I need some help here if this thing's gonna defrost by She comes up and together they tug and pull until they succeced in extracting a large, frozen turkey. As they pull it out, it slips from their hands and, after a dull thump, slides along the floor. They smile. Elena bends over to pick it up. Ben observes her. She notices his look.
ELENA: Oh. Sure, I Did you remember to pick up the cranberry sauce?
BEN: Um, yes. They stand together, his concern and her vulnerability forming an awkward attraction between them.
ELENA: Because you like it on your turkey I do. I'm are you.?
BEN: I do. I'm are you.?
ELENA: I. I think I am.
BEN: ( pause ) You know Elena, I've been thinking
ELENA: Ben, maybe no talking right now? If you start talking, you're going to She kisses him as if she needed him.
BEN: You crying?
ELENA: I'm just sad Ben I mean it was. you were, but, you know. I just don't know.
BEN: ( gently making light ) Whatever that means Elena And you complain about me not communicating. I thought it was
ELENA: No, I didn't mean to sound negative. It was But Ben. What is going to happen with us? Have you
BEN: You have to bring this up now? What? Did I do something here? Is that it? Is it something I did?
ELENA: I wasn't accusing you, Ben. It's just that we've got to be honest. Not just with ourselves, but with the children.
BEN: ( pause, sitting up ) Hell, I know. I I guess if you want to accuse me, you've got ( looks at watch ) Oh hell! I've got to pick up Paul. I almost forgot. He gets up and starts to get dressed.
ELENA: You were saying? He smells the armpits of the shirt he's putting on.
BEN: Yikes I was hoping to wear this thing to the Halford's Friday.
ELENA: That shirt?
BEN: Leave it I'll wash it for you. He looks at her ruefully.
ELENA: Leave it I'll wash it for you. He looks at her ruefully.
WENDY: You have to follow me?
MIKEY: I dunno. I They're now in front of the Hood's house.
BEN: Hey there Mikey, how's business?
MIKEY: ( tripping off of his bike ) Business? Uh, I dunno. Ben grimaces, fiddles for his car keys. As Mikey remounts and rides off, Wendy passes her father on the driveway.
BEN: I'm picking up Paul at the station - want to come?
WENDY: What you been up to?
BEN: What you been up to?
WENDY: INT. HOOD LIVING ROOM. DAY Wendy enters the house and climbs the stairs. She sees the crumpled bed sheets in her parents' room and hears Elena in the shower.
BEN: So how's school treating you?
PAUL: All right.
BEN: Anyone special? You know.
PAUL: Anyone special? You know.
BEN: Anyone special? You know.
PAUL: Anyone special? You know.
BEN: Anyone special? You know.
PAUL: Well it's good to see you we miss you around the house and all, but this St. Peter's, it's top of the line, eh?
BEN: Well it's good to see you we miss you around the house and all, but this St. Peter's, it's top of the line, eh?
PAUL: You know Paul, I've been thinking, maybe this is as good a time as any to have a little talk, you know, about well He makes a sharp turn. Paul puts his arms up on the dashboard to steady himself.
BEN: You know Paul, I've been thinking, maybe this is as good a time as any to have a little talk, you know, about well He makes a sharp turn. Paul puts his arms up on the dashboard to steady himself.
PAUL: ( nervous ) Well, the whole gamut. Facts of life and all. Some fatherly advice, because, I tell you, there's things happening that you're probably old enough. well. ( pause ) For example, on the self-abuse front now this is important - it's not advisable to do it in the shower it wastes water and electricity and because we all expect you to be doing it there in any case and, um, not onto the linen, and not on your sister's underwear or any clothing belonging to your mother He pauses to gauge the effect of his monologue on his son, then continues.
BEN: Well, the whole gamut. Facts of life and all. Some fatherly advice, because, I tell you, there's things happening that you're probably old enough. well. For example, on the self-abuse front now this is important - it's not advisable to do it in the shower it wastes water and electricity and because we all expect you to be doing it there in any case and, um, not onto the linen, and not on your sister's underwear or any clothing belonging to your mother He pauses to gauge the effect of his monologue on his son, then continues.
PAUL: Uh, Dad Just then Ben runs a stop sign and almost slams into another Holy! Well. If you're worried about anything, just feel free to ask, and, uh, we can look it up.
BEN: Holy! Well. If you're worried about anything, just feel free to ask, and, uh, we can look it up.
PAUL: Uh, dad, you know I'm 16.
BEN: All the more reason for this little heart to heart. great.
BEN: Um, Paul. On second thought, can you do me a favor and pretend I never said any of that.
PAUL: Sure dad.
BEN: In the doorway, Elena waits.
PAUL: Hello, Charles.
WENDY: Greetings, Charles.
PAUL: How are the parental units functioning these days?
WENDY: Dad's like doing his Up With People routine, mom hasn't been saying I don't know. Dad seems a little Yeah well wait till mom opens her They both ponder silently. Then:
PAUL: I don't know. Dad seems a little Yeah well wait till mom opens her They both ponder silently. Then:
WENDY: Yeah well wait till mom opens her They both ponder silently. Then:
PAUL: May I operate your telephonic Why don't you use the phone Calling an individual, Charles, in New York. Confirming a social outing for Friday night.
WENDY: Why don't you use the phone Calling an individual, Charles, in New York. Confirming a social outing for Friday night.
PAUL: Calling an individual, Charles, in New York. Confirming a social outing for Friday night.
WENDY: Can I come?
PAUL: It's a one-on-one kind of date With who?
WENDY: With who?
PAUL: Her name's Libbets.
WENDY: Libbets? What kind of a name is EXT. HOOD HOUSE. DAY Morning. To establish.
ELENA: The turkey in?
BEN: Stuffed and baking.
BEN: Anyone home?
PAUL: I'll be out in a second. Ben walks back to the bedroom, smirking.
BEN: Sure you will.
BEN: Well, it's great we can all be together. And this Thanksgiving, no hysteria, no yelling, especially with grandpa not here, although we miss him. So let's do it right and actually, Wendy, why don't you say grace. You used to love to say grace, remember. Wendy grimaces, as they all bow their heads slightly.
WENDY: Dear Lord, thank you for Thanksgiving, and for letting us white people kill all the Everyone looks up.
BEN: Jesus all right enough! They all unceremoniously start to dig in.
JANEY: After the Thanksgiving I had, I need it. You having one?
BEN: After the Thanksgiving I had, I need it. You having one?
JANEY: In a bit. She sits next to him, he kisses the back of her neck.
BEN: You know, I think Elena might suspect something. Janey gives him a rather contemptuous look.
JANEY: ( almost ironic ) Have I noticed anything? I'm not married to her Benjamin, you are. I think you've probably a better vantage point from which to observe Yeah, but, I I've been working a lot lately, and No, that's not it. I guess we've just been on the verge of saying something, whatever it is, just saying something to each other. On the verge. Janey gets up.
BEN: Yeah, but, I I've been working a lot lately, and No, that's not it. I guess we've just been on the verge of saying something, whatever it is, just saying something to each other. On the verge. Janey gets up.
JANEY: I'll be back. Benjamin looks at her quizzically.
BEN: Birth control.
JANEY: Birth control.
BEN: Right. Gotcha. She leaves the room. He leans back onto the bed. Sits back up. Takes a sip of vodka. Puts the glass down. Takes his socks off. He's now in just his jockey shorts and shirt. Faintly, he hears a door close. The front door? He takes another sip. He hears another sound.
BEN: Water bed! Dig it! He wiggles comically, making more waves.
MIKEY: Maybe we can mess around. You know, only if you want to.
WENDY: I don't know.
MIKEY: Why did you with Sandy?
WENDY: I don't know.
MIKEY: You like him? He worships you. But Wendy doesn't seem to hear she's drawn to an object lying next to a bean bag chair off to one side.
WENDY: Hey, what's this? With a look of utter fascination, she picks up a Nixon mask, looking at it as though it were an archeological find.
MIKEY: She puts the mask on.
WENDY: ( from behind the mask ) I won't take my pants off. But I'll touch it. That's as far as it goes. Mikey looks totally confused. Remaining fully clothed, Wendy loosens Mike's belt, showing no excitement from behind her mask, and lets him climb on top of her for a dry hump. Just then, a shaft of light hits them from the top of the stairs Ben towers above them, looking down. Mikey flips over immediately and pulls his clothes together, grabbing a TV Guide as Wendy stands up, the mask still on. As Ben descends Mikey, still stuffing his shirt-tail into his pants, pretends to flip through the TV Guide.
MIKEY: ( muttering ) When worlds collide.
WENDY: 4:30 movie. When Worlds Collide. Ben arrives, folds his arms.
MIKEY: 4:30 movie. When Worlds Collide. Ben arrives, folds his arms.
BEN: What the hell are you kids doing down here?
WENDY: What do you think we're doing, dad?
BEN: What do I think? I think you're probably touching each other. I think you're touching that reckless jerk-off, for god's sake, and I think he's trying to get into your slacks. I think, at fourteen years of age, that you're getting ready to give up your girlhood
MIKEY: Hey, hang on there, Mr. Hood
BEN: Don't you direct a single word at me, Mikey. I don't want to hear it. I'll be speaking with your parents about this situation very soon. Bet your ass on that, son. Young lady?
WENDY: Talking to me, dad?
BEN: Who else would I be talking to? And take that thing off!
WENDY: ( pulling off the mask ) Well, then forget all this stern dad stuff.
BEN: I'm not interested in your smart ass remarks now, lady. Let's go. Right now. You and I can discuss it on the walk home. She stands next to Mikey for a moment, both on the verge of EXT. STREET. EVENING Hood and Wendy walk through a cold drizzling rain. He looks at her from time to time, then takes her arm.
BEN: Look, kiddo, don't worry about it. I really don't care that much. I'm just not sure he's good enough, that's all.
WENDY: I mean, he's not serious, he'll end up living off Janey and Jim, you It's just that you develop a sense when you get older, if things are going to work out or if they won't, and sometimes it's not worth the She looks at him. They keep walking. She walks through a Your toes cold?
BEN: I mean, he's not serious, he'll end up living off Janey and Jim, you It's just that you develop a sense when you get older, if things are going to work out or if they won't, and sometimes it's not worth the She looks at him. They keep walking. She walks through a Your toes cold?
WENDY: He stops and lifts her in his arms.
BEN: I'll carry you up the drive. She puts her arms around his neck and he lifts her up. On her face, as he carries her a look of blank but real INT. HOOD FRONT HALL. EVENING Hood and Wendy enter, wet and cold, muttering hellos.
BEN: You go dry off now. Wendy heads for the stairs, Hood following.
BEN: Never guess where I found her. Not much response From Elena.
ELENA: Up to you. I'd like to go early and leave pretty soon after that.
BEN: I get you loud and clear. hey, you look nice.
ELENA: So what were you doing in the Williams' basement anyway?
BEN: Oh, just dropping off a coffee cup. Jim left it, last time he was over. It was on the dash of the car. You were, you know, reading, thought I'd just catch some air. Let's eat.
ELENA: Oh right. The mustache coffee cup. The one that was sitting on the Yeah, that one.
BEN: Yeah, that one.
ELENA: That one. She walks down to the kitchen, Benjamin following her.
PAUL: See you.
BEN: Stay out of trouble.
ELENA: You'll be on the 10:30 train?
PAUL: Ah let the guy have his fun. What's the name of this girl with the Park Avenue address?
ELENA: Ah let the guy have his fun. What's the name of this girl with the Park Avenue address?
BEN: Ah let the guy have his fun. What's the name of this girl with the Park Avenue address?
PAUL: Libbets. Libbets Casey.
BEN: Libbets? What kind of name is INT. KITCHEN. NIGHT A silent dinner of turkey sandwiches with Elena, Benjamin, and Wendy. The turkey carcass sits, embarrassed, in the middle of the table. Wendy, finished, gets up from the table. Opens the fridge, but finds nothing. Then goes to the candy shelf and grabs some Hot Tamales, leaving the room without a word and going into the den.
TV: . and that ends today's highlight coverage of the Watergate affair.
WENDY: INT. KITCHEN. NIGHT Hood and Elena rise from the table with their dishes.
BEN: What's for dessert?
ELENA: See for yourself.
BEN: No advice from the experts, huh? His plate slips out of his hands into the trash. He fishes it out and sets it on the counter.
ELENA: Don't start.
BEN: You think I
ELENA: I have no idea.
BEN: What's on your mind? Don't
ELENA: It wouldn't make a pleasant evening, if that's what you're after. I don't want to talk about it. Stupid mustache cup.
BEN: What do you mean?
ELENA: Don't be dim.
BEN: Elena, what are you're talking I'm not surprised.
ELENA: I'm not surprised.
BEN: Listen, Elena, if you're gonna pull that passive aggressive stuff on me Your unfaithfulness that's what I'm trying to talk about. Your unfaithfulness. Your betrayal. Your dalliance. And you won't do me the dignity of being up front about it.
ELENA: Your unfaithfulness that's what I'm trying to talk about. Your unfaithfulness. Your betrayal. Your dalliance. And you won't do me the dignity of being up front about it.
BEN: ( quieter ) Am I unfaithful? Is that what you're trying to say?
ELENA: It's a starting place.
BEN: Well, what kind of faithfulness are you after?
ELENA: If you're going to insult me
BEN: What else could I be? What else could I be? We're not living in the real world here. You're living out some fantasy land from the past, or some advice or something from those psychoanalysts. there are some hard facts here. It's the law of the land. the government, the world, those two guys on the Yankees. And I'm not having any fun at it, I can tell you that. I'm not.
ELENA: Oh lord. You think I'm so dense. And now you want to be seen with your dense wife at the cocktail party. You want to wear that ridiculous shirt which doesn't go with those pants at all. You want to wear that, and you want me to shake hands with your friends and make conversation and dress up in an outfit that shows a lot of cleavage and you're not going to accord me the respect of talking honestly about this. You don't really know what this feels like.
BEN: ( whispering ) Sure I do. Do I know what loneliness feels like? Sure I do. I know a lot about it, if that's what you mean.
ELENA: Benjamin. That's supposed to explain it? Seemingly tired, he stands before her. Silence. Elena sighs, then walks into the den.
ELENA: We're going to the Halford's. The number's on the calendar in the kitchen. We should be home around
WENDY: ( eyes still glued to the
TV ): Is it a big party? A big neighborhood party?
ELENA: I suppose. Why?
WENDY: Just curious. If there's a problem, I guess I'll just call you there to What sort of problems are you planning exactly? Elena kisses the top of her head.
ELENA: What sort of problems are you planning exactly? Elena kisses the top of her head.
WENDY: ( still watching the TV ) Oh I thought I'd steal the station wagon, drive up to a commune. Or set the house on fire. You know.
ELENA: Just bundle up. It's supposed to freeze tonight. We'll see you in the morning.
DOT: Ben, Elena. Wonderful! Wonderful! So wonderful to see you. Finishing the last of a celery canoe, she kisses the air next to Ben's ear and gives Elena a manic hug. Then, picking up a white salad bowl from the hall table:
ELENA: Oh, damn. Uh, I've left the
BEN: In the car.
ELENA: In the car.
BEN: Oh, yeah. Yeah, we'll be right back, Dot.
ELENA: This just isn't the best moment for I know, I know. I had no idea
BEN: I know, I know. I had no idea
ELENA: That this was going to be a key Yeah, well, if we'd understood we could have invented some kind of excuse. A key party did you see how stuffed that bowl was already?
BEN: Yeah, well, if we'd understood we could have invented some kind of excuse. A key party did you see how stuffed that bowl was already?
ELENA: I think we're here and we don't have to stay we ought simply to put in an appearance and then we can head home.
BEN: I think we're here and we don't have to stay we ought simply to put in an appearance and then we can head home.
ELENA: Damn it, Ben
BEN: I'm not staying at this party so we can go home with someone else's wife. That's not why we're here, right? We're simply being neighbors here, and I think we should do just You're not going to
ELENA: You're not going to
BEN: I'm not.
ELENA: You have some marker, that's what I think, if you want to know the You have some marker and you're going to put it on the house keys so that Janey can find them and then when I get back to the house I'll find the two of you in there and Wendy'll be able to hear you and Paul will be back and he'll hear you and I'll catch you, that's what I think. She'll be swearing and banging against the wall and I'll catch
BEN: She rubs her eyes.
ELENA: Well, I'm really pleased to hear a Elena, you're just getting wound up to get wound up.
BEN: Elena, you're just getting wound up to get wound up.
ELENA: Thanks for the diagnosis, Ben. Thank you. So let's just go to this fiasco if that's what you want to do. Let's just go on in. I'd rather talk to anyone else but you. She pulls the keys out of the ignition, gets out of the car, and slams the door. He follows her.
ELENA: Oh, Dot! Elena, entering the house again, tosses the keys at Dot Halford, who looks surprised. Hood slides in behind his wife. Dot drops the keys into the bowl. Slow-motion, close up: the keys, on their equine chain, fall in with a THUNDEROUS CRASH.
GEORGE: Clair, George Clair! What the hell brings you to New Canaan?
BEN: Clair, George Clair! What the hell brings you to New Canaan?
GEORGE: Well, it's the funniest thing. I've been talking to some investors a little outside venture, you understand, between you and me about a scheme to manufacture a new Styrofoam packaging. Little peanut like pieces that can really keep an item free from trauma during shipping. Miraculous. Anyway, it turns out the genius behind the whole project is your neighbor, Jim Williams. How about that!
BEN: Well, hey, isn't that a one-in-a million coincidence. A real dreamer, Jim Williams, eh?
GEORGE: Darned right. Look here, Benj, whaddya make of this sequel to The Godfather? You think it's gonna Don't see how. I think the public's had its fill of this gangster stuff. No, trust me disaster pics. And air hockey.
BEN: Don't see how. I think the public's had its fill of this gangster stuff. No, trust me disaster pics. And air hockey.
GEORGE: Yeah, good. Benjamin catches a glimpse of Janey, voluptuously attired, across the room.
BEN: Yeah, see you bright and early Monday am. Say, where's the wife?
GEORGE: ( winking as he goes ) In Rhode Island with the folks. I'm a free agent tonight. At this, they both notice Elena slowly gliding across the other side of the room. Clair gives Ben a sideways glance, then moves on. Ben makes straight for Janey, who pretends to be preoccupied with a plant.
JANEY: Oh jeez, Benjie. Well, here you Damn right, but where the hell were What are you talking about?
BEN: Damn right, but where the hell were What are you talking about?
JANEY: ( looking around ) What are you talking about?
BEN: ( whispering, but too Don't bullshit me around, Janey. Jesus Christ, I waited around for more than half an hour, in nothing but my boxer shorts, and and what's all that about? What the hell happened? Janey takes a sip of her drink.
JANEY: A prior engagement overcame me.
BEN: Listen, Benjamin Hood. I have obligations that precede your. from before you showed up. One or two, you know, good-natured encounters, that doesn't mean I'm. I'm not just some toy for you. When I remembered some chores I wanted to get done before the party, I just did them, that's all, because I wanted to do them before I saw Jimmy.
JANEY: Listen, Benjamin Hood. I have obligations that precede your. from before you showed up. One or two, you know, good-natured encounters, that doesn't mean I'm. I'm not just some toy for you. When I remembered some chores I wanted to get done before the party, I just did them, that's all, because I wanted to do them before I saw Jimmy.
BEN: Jimmy? Jimmy? I don't know how to take this. And what do you mean, Jimmy? I thought you said you and your husband
JANEY: How you take it isn't all that interesting to me, Benjamin. I'm I just can't believe you could be Stalling, he watches her take another sip of her drink and wander off. The air is filled with talk of Watergate, Billie Jean King, the Oil Crisis, the Mets. Benjamin goes over to the couch, where Dave Gorman is chatting up an attractive younger woman.
BEN: I just can't believe you could be Stalling, he watches her take another sip of her drink and wander off. The air is filled with talk of Watergate, Billie Jean King, the Oil Crisis, the Mets. Benjamin goes over to the couch, where Dave Gorman is chatting up an attractive younger woman.
GORMAN: ( lighting up a joint ) Welcome to the Monkey House has been a seminal influence on me hey Benjamin give it a try? This stuff will make some sense out of those larger questions.
BEN: ( waving it away ) Thanks for the advice Dave. But then, Benjamin changes his mind.
GORMAN: Sure is good shit. It's opiated. I had it in my chamber for a while. I was smoking this other
BEN: It's what?
GORMAN: Don't fret, Benjie, it's
BEN: Darn it, Dave. He rises unsteadily, weaving through the room's Take California. They've got their own airline in-state that's not subject to the fare controls. Compare Sacramento to L.A. on the controlled airlines and you'll see what Friedman is saying supply and demand, less restriction. Benjamin walks over to a window. The outdoor lamps illuminate a new and heavy downpour of frozen sleet.
JACK MOELLERING: Take California. They've got their own airline in-state that's not subject to the fare controls. Compare Sacramento to L.A. on the controlled airlines and you'll see what Friedman is saying supply and demand, less restriction. Benjamin walks over to a window. The outdoor lamps illuminate a new and heavy downpour of frozen sleet.
CONDUCTOR: Approaching our final stop, Grand Central Station. Paul looks out the window at the tenements of Harlem, barely visible through the walls of sleet. Soon the train enters the tunnel toward the station.
PAUL: Libbets Casey, please.
DOORMAN: Your name?
PAUL: Paul Hood.
DOORMAN: ( a smirk ) Elevator on the right. Eighth floor she's waiting for you.
LIBBETS: Excellent. We were waiting! She turns and runs into the den.
PAUL: ( under his breath ) And there, in the den, cleaning an ounce of dope on an open copy of Nixon's Six Crises, is Francis.
FRANCIS: ( lifting the book up ) You oughtta read this Hood, Nixon, our leader, all ye need know about the travails of life. Check out the Checkers speech stuff.
PAUL: ( all hope drained from Francis. You gonna leave the seeds in there? In the binding like that?
FRANCIS: All will be revealed, baby. The television is turned on to a weather report about the coming ice storm.
LIBBETS: Howdy there. You, young knight. Can you check on the mead? Can you sally forth and secure us some more Moisture! Moisture!
FRANCIS: Howdy there. You, young knight. Can you check on the mead? Can you sally forth and secure us some more Moisture! Moisture!
PAUL: ( nasal voice, Moisture! Moisture!
FRANCIS: ( nasal voice, Moisture! Moisture!
LIBBETS: ( pointing ) Beer. In the pantry. Paul trudges disconsolately out of the room.
LIBBETS: Frankie opens them with his teeth.
PAUL: ( handing him a beer ) Hey, it's a sellable skill. Francis licks closed a second joint, then takes the beer and opens it with his rear molars.
FRANCIS: Hell on the fillings. Paul opens the other two beers and hands one to Libbets. They light up a joint.
FRANCIS: Everything's gonna freeze, the big Yeah, Paul, are you gonna get home Paul and Francis exchange a look. She puts an Allman Brothers tape on the 8-track and turns the TV down.
LIBBETS: Yeah, Paul, are you gonna get home Paul and Francis exchange a look. She puts an Allman Brothers tape on the 8-track and turns the TV down.
WENDY: She drops the blade and splashes water on her wrist, grabbing some toilet paper and holding it against the tiny wound.
WENDY: She hears the phone ring and walks downstairs.
WENDY: Hood residence.
MIKEY: You're parents at that party?
WENDY: Yeah. Yours?
MIKEY: You get in trouble?
WENDY: Maybe. Can't really tell yet.
MIKEY: I'm sorry if I got you into trouble. Maybe we don't have to, you know. unless you really want I'm going to Silver Meadow, check out the ice storm. You wanna Yeah. OK.
WENDY: I'm going to Silver Meadow, check out the ice storm. You wanna Yeah. OK.
MIKE: I'm going to Silver Meadow, check out the ice storm. You wanna Yeah. OK.
WENDY: Yeah. OK.
MIKE: Yeah. OK.
SANDY: Where you going?
MIKEY: It's freezing.
SANDY: It's freezing.
MIKEY: ( pausing ) Yeah. When it freezes, I guess that means the molecules are not moving. So when you breathe, there's nothing in the air, you know, to breathe in to your body. The molecules have stopped. So it's Sandy just looks at him. He walks out into the night.
ELENA: Reverend Edwards.
PHILIP: Perhaps you might find it in your heart to call me Philip? He sits beside her.
ELENA: You're here. I'm a bit surprised.
PHILIP: Sometimes the shepherd needs the company of the sheep.
ELENA: I'm going to try hard not to understand the implications of that Philip's about to reply, but thinks better of it. They sit glumly next to each other for a minute. Then Philip Forgive me. He walks swiftly to the hall and hurriedly fishes his keys out of the bowl, then heads for the door.
PHILIP: Forgive me. He walks swiftly to the hall and hurriedly fishes his keys out of the bowl, then heads for the door.
TED FRANKLIN: ( passing by ) I hope those weren't my keys. He laughs at his own joke as Philip rushes out the front Back to Elena, even more forlorn than before.
PAUL: He pulls out some bottles.
PAUL: Valium. Seconal. Uh, Francis Chamberlain Davenport the Fourth tonight you sleep the sleep of the just. He pockets the Seconal and turns out the light.
PAUL: And whence has yon virginal maiden Like into one of the other 20 or so bathrooms they've got in this Paul takes out the bottle and opens it.
FRANCIS: Like into one of the other 20 or so bathrooms they've got in this Paul takes out the bottle and opens it.
PAUL: Check it out. Not for the faint of Pharmaceutical! You are a god.
FRANCIS: Pharmaceutical! You are a god.
LIBBETS: ( in the doorway ) No candy for me?
FRANCIS: ( to Paul ) Young master of the revels, a treat for our hostess?
PAUL: Well, uh, I don't, it's really
LIBBETS: What is it?
FRANCIS: Come on Paulie, share the wealth. You copped 'em from her mom's stash Let's see!
LIBBETS: Let's see!
PAUL: ( hand in pocket ) Libbets, you really shouldn't mix and match, you know with the beer. I'll put 'em back. Libbets reaches into his pocket and pulls out the bottle.
LIBBETS: Oh far out, Paulie. Hey look, these expired like five months ago. You think they're better aged? She opens up the bottle and takes one out.
PAUL: Maybe you should have just a half.
LIBBETS: Thanks for the advice dad. She takes the pill. Paul looks on, thwarted.
BOLAND: Benjie, feeling no pain.
BEN: As the Indian saying goes, pain is merely an opinion.
BOLAND: ( nodding across the room ) Hey check it out. Maria Conrad's brought her son. ( walking off ) I wish some of the gang had brought their daughters! Ben feels a wave of distaste at the joke. He looks across the room as Maria and her son Neil ( stringy hair, acne, tie-dyed turtleneck, patched jeans ) are engaging Janey and Philip Edwards in conversation.
NEIL: As Werner says, there is nothing to get. That's It. When you get that there's nothing to get. That's the training, when you ask yourself, the question, "What is is?"
JANEY: Wait, this is the training, where they don't let you go to the That was the hardest part. But I did it. And you get into some far out shit.
NEIL: That was the hardest part. But I did it. And you get into some far out shit.
FRANCIS: The foot. the foot. toeclipper Paul is sitting on the couch, and Libbets comes back and sits at his feet, facing up to him.
PAUL: I guess he's just real exhausted from, you know, tests and stuff. Libbets is herself somewhat in dreamland.
LIBBETS: You know Libbets, I really feel, you know, like a real connection to Yeah but you don't even know me Sure I do, you know, like your aura. That you give off.
PAUL: You know Libbets, I really feel, you know, like a real connection to Yeah but you don't even know me Sure I do, you know, like your aura. That you give off.
LIBBETS: Yeah but you don't even know me Sure I do, you know, like your aura. That you give off.
PAUL: Sure I do, you know, like your aura. That you give off.
LIBBETS: My what?
PAUL: It's like very positive, and I feel a real special feeling, because you And I have a special feeling too, because I do. It's special.
LIBBETS: And I have a special feeling too, because I do. It's special.
PAUL: You do? I'm glad. Because I feel for you
LIBBETS: And I have a feeling for you too, because you're just like I feel for you like you're you're just like a brother.
PAUL: Yeah, you're not alone with that I do.
LIBBETS: I do.
PAUL: Right. Cool. So, how about we take a bath together?
LIBBETS: ( consciousness fading Hah hah you're funny. A bath. Like a brother and sister. Oh man, I'm so wasted. Her head bobs and weaves, her eyes close, and suddenly her head falls forward with a whoosh toward the couch smack dab between Paul's legs. She begins to snore instantly, her open mouth nuzzling into his crotch. Paul doesn't move, doesn't even breathe. Then, slowly, he leans his back into the couch, without shifting the rest of his body. He looks as though he has simultaneously won the lottery and received a lobotomy.
DOT: OK everyone. We have a little business to attend to now. So everyone who'd like to stay, please gather in the living room. She scoops up the bowl and places it on a high end table which has been put in the middle of the room.
BEN: ( walking up to Elena ) Ready to go?
ELENA: We're not going anywhere. Elena waves at Janey Williams, who is standing across the living room. Janey looks back without expression.
WENDY: Hood residence.
PAUL: ( whispering ) Charles, what time is it?
WENDY: Is this Charles?
PAUL: What time is it?
WENDY: Um, ten-o-five. Why? Where are you?
PAUL: I'm, uh, in the midst of a moral dilemma. And I was wondering, because I know you're a very moral person, and
WENDY: Shit. I can't really talk about it. I guess I better get to the train.
PAUL: Shit. I can't really talk about it. I guess I better get to the train.
WENDY: What are you doing at home on a Friday night?
PAUL: What are you doing at home on a Friday night?
WENDY: I have plans. Paul hangs up the phone and looks down at Libbets. Libbets' Allman Brothers tape has run out. The machine makes a repeated clicking sound as the take up real continues to circle. The only other sound is the noise of the wind and rain lashing against the apartment's windows.
DOT: Well, what shall the order be, alphabetical? In order of Golf handicap! Lowest handicap does the honors. Nervous laughter.
PIERCE SAWYER: Golf handicap! Lowest handicap does the honors. Nervous laughter.
DOT: Golf handicap? Ladies, isn't it up to you?
MARIA CONRAD: Oh I'll go first, damn it. Let's just line up and get it over with. Maria chooses Stephen Earle. Hands the keys to him. A smattering of applause as she takes his arm and they leave.
MARIE EARLE: Good luck! Neil watches his mother's exit.
MRS. GADD: Oh, my own husband. Isn't that against the rules?
DOT: Try again?
MRS. GADD: ( relieved ) Oh, I think not. Mr. Gadd smiles as they leave, obviously happy to go. Finally, only Mark Boland, Neil Conrad, Janey and Jim Williams, Rob and Dot Halford, Sari Steele, Benjamin and Getting down to the wire! Elena steps forward. Benjamin is obviously agitated. Close on Janey's hands selecting away from Ben's equine key ring. She lifts up another key ring Neil Conrad, the teenager. She hands the self-important-looking Neil his keys and they turn to go. Jim Williams smiles mysteriously to himself. Ben suddenly lurches forward, semi-drunkenly, trying to separate Neil from Janey.
DOT: Getting down to the wire! Elena steps forward. Benjamin is obviously agitated. Close on Janey's hands selecting away from Ben's equine key ring. She lifts up another key ring Neil Conrad, the teenager. She hands the self-important-looking Neil his keys and they turn to go. Jim Williams smiles mysteriously to himself. Ben suddenly lurches forward, semi-drunkenly, trying to separate Neil from Janey.
THE GROUP: ( ad lib ) Hey hey Ben, hang on there a sec. He backs off, ashamed, and, taking a step backwards, trips over the coffee table. Mark Boland helps lift him up.
BEN: Sorry. maybe I should. the Right down the hall, Ben.
DOT: Right down the hall, Ben.
BEN: ( muttering ) Sorry, I'm sorry. Uh, I'll be back. Dot follows Mark Boland down the hall behind Ben. Suddenly, it's just Elena and Jim Williams, and Sari Steele and Rob Halford.
ROB HALFORD: ( taking Sari's arm ) Actually, we didn't put our keys in at all. But you won't spread it around? It's my party, and Dot isn't. hey, we're just going to slip upstairs for a while. You folks like a cup of coffee or something before we go? Elena and Jim look at each other.
ELENA: Rob, we'll fix it for ourselves. You two go and get acquainted. We'll let ourselves out the front Jim and Elena stand there alone.
JIM: Well, I have to say I don't have much faith that my car keys are still in that bowl. Doesn't seem entirely safe, leaving your car keys around?
ELENA: Let me. She takes the bowl and dips her hand in. Two sets are left. One, her own, she avoids. She takes out Jim's keys and walks across the room, handing them to him.
JIM: Thanks, but oh, I don't think so. It's been kind of a discouraging evening.
ELENA: You couldn't have hoped for much better when you came up the walk.
JIM: Somehow it was different in my imagination when I thought about it. Actually, I didn't think about it at all, really. They sit down on the sofa.
JIM: You want coffee or something?
ELENA: Well, maybe they have one of those filter jobs in the kitchen
JIM: Look, Elena, the fact that we're neighbors. you know, close friends, well it sort of makes this a little strange, don't you think?
ELENA: My husband is probably passed out in the bathroom, or at least he wishes he were. I've been married to him for 17 years and I don't have any intention of going in there to get him. so what I'm proposing is that since your wife has gone off with a boy, and since you are standing here alone, I'm proposing that you and I do what makes sense. Stay warm. Pass some time. That's all. They both look at their hands.
ELENA: Now don't make me feel as if I'm being too forward, OK? If you don't
JIM: What the hey. Let's go for a drive.
ELENA: Okay. Shall we clean up around here first? Do you think it's all right
JIM: Nah, that wasn't in the contract. But they still walk around turning off lights. In the hallway, Elena looks a bit mournfully at the light seeping from underneath the bathroom door. She hears the sound of running water from inside. Then she goes into a sideroom and joins Jim. They pick up their coats.
JIM: We're going to have to defrost this thing for a while. He turns on the ignition, and the vents start to blow cold air at them. He leans over and kisses her.
ELENA: Do these seats go back? That starts it. He jumps at her, unbuckling her and unzipping They tangle uncomfortably for a few seconds. And then, comically, he's in her. With a groan, it's over in a flash. Jim pulls himself off, readjusting his pants.
JIM: That was awful, really awful. I'm so sorry, Elena. Elena has somehow worked herself into the cavity of the glove compartment, and is trying to figure out how to extricate Things are really rotten at home. You wouldn't believe how rotten. Janey's sick. She's unstable, I guess. it's not the right time to tell you. but that's it it's like I can't make her happy, the boys can't make her happy, she just Jim, maybe we should just go. I've got to look in on the kids. Paul is supposed to be coming back in from the city.
JIM: Things are really rotten at home. You wouldn't believe how rotten. Janey's sick. She's unstable, I guess. it's not the right time to tell you. but that's it it's like I can't make her happy, the boys can't make her happy, she just Jim, maybe we should just go. I've got to look in on the kids. Paul is supposed to be coming back in from the city.
ELENA: Jim, maybe we should just go. I've got to look in on the kids. Paul is supposed to be coming back in from the city.
JIM: Jesus, let me make it up to you I can do better than that, honestly
ELENA: Well, we can talk about it.
JIM: That's fine. I wouldn't expect you to see it any other way.
ELENA: Maybe you just need look, can you wait here a sec, I need to tidy up just a minute, I'll be right back. You'll wait?
JIM: Of course. She opens the door and walks back to the house.
BEN: Ben, I've got a ride home. Maybe you should sleep this one off on the couch here?
ELENA: Ben, I've got a ride home. Maybe you should sleep this one off on the couch here?
BEN: I'll drive you
ELENA: She sits on the toilet next to him, stroking his hair.
BEN: ( looking up at her, with Sure. I'll try. And we'll talk in the morning?
ELENA: We'll talk in the morning.
WENDY: Anyone home? Hello. Wendy wanders into the living room, then climbs the steps. The sound of the wind and the darkness begin to scare her. She goes into Mikey's room it's even more of a disaster zone than usual. She sees on the wall his dark-light poster of the 12 ( sexual ) positions of the zodiac. She notices the black garter belt on the floor, and picks it up, absentmindedly swinging it in her hand as she walks out of the room. She walks back down the stairs and into the kitchen, leaving the garter belt on the counter. She opens the refrigerator, grabs a jar of peanut butter, and scoops some up in her finger. As she puts her finger in her She gives out a little yelp.
SANDY: She gives out a little yelp.
WENDY: Sandy, you scared the shit out of What are you doing?
SANDY: What are you doing?
WENDY: Just thought I'd stop by.
SANDY: Mike's out I think he went to Silver Meadow to see if you were hanging around there.
WENDY: ( pause ) Are you his girlfriend?
SANDY: ( pause ) Are you his girlfriend?
WENDY: INT. JIM'S CADILLAC. NIGHT Elena gets in. They drive off silently.
JIM: You okay?
ELENA: Yeah. You?
JIM: Yes. Well, I guess we can walk from EXT. CAR. NIGHT Jim and Elena get out, shaky, from the car. They pause for a moment. The street lamp above them sizzles, but stays on. They start to walk.
PAUL: Oh shit! Paul gets up, looks down at her. She snores. He runs over to a side table and sees the clock: 11:10.
PAUL: Oh shit oh shit. C'mon!
SANDY: Check this out. He's supposed to talk all kinds of stuff, but he's like malfunctioned. He pulls the dog tag on the doll, and G.I. Joe emits a plastic macho voice.
G.I. JOE: Mayday! Mayday! Get this message back to base!
SANDY: Same thing. Again and again. Wendy takes the doll and yanks the cord.
G.I. JOE: Mayday! Mayday! Get this message back to base!
SANDY: It's gonna get a lot colder tonight, I predict. Probably a blackout. Do you have candles in your house? I know where the candles are, and I have my own flashlight. Over there. Also, I know where every emergency exit is on this floor. During the course of his monologue, as Wendy looks on, Sandy calmly ties a noose for his doll.
SANDY: This knot's called a bowline. He puts the noose over the doll's head, as Wendy holds him.
G.I. JOE: Mayday! Mayday!
SANDY: Let's hang him. Sandy drapes the noose over the edge of a dresser drawer. G.I. Joe dangles. They both look at him in silence. The silence continues.
WENDY: He's dead.
SANDY: If it wasn't raining we could take him outside and blow him up.
WENDY: He wouldn't blow up. He'd just get all mangled or twisted. She takes him down and lays him flat on the bed. And then begins to remove his clothes. Sandy looks on, desirous.
WENDY: ( noticing his lack of It looks like someone got to his private parts before us.
SANDY: Communist Viet Cong.
WENDY: They left it in the jungle. They speak with high seriousness. Wendy slides up on the bed where Sandy sits, a pillow on his lap, and one by one, with exaggerated slowness, she removes her snowboots, as if they were stiletto heels.
WENDY: Can I get into your bed? With you? Sandy begins to shake.
SANDY: We we have to go to the guest room. We can't stay in here. What if Mikey? My parents?
WENDY: Don't worry about them. They're at that party, getting drunk and falling all over each other and making jokes about McGovern and Sandy begins to cry.
SANDY: It's just it's just She takes his hand, and they walk out of the room and down the hall, into the guest room.
WENDY: Want a drink?
SANDY: You never tasted the stuff? She fills the glass to the brim and hands the bottle to They clink and each toss back a sip Wendy almost the entire glass. Sandy coughs and gags, but swallows.
WENDY: You never tasted the stuff? She fills the glass to the brim and hands the bottle to They clink and each toss back a sip Wendy almost the entire glass. Sandy coughs and gags, but swallows.
WENDY: Try again. He does.
SANDY: It feels warm.
WENDY: One more shot?
SANDY: They drink.
WENDY: Under the covers. Under they go, and soon every layer of clothing emerges.
WENDY: ( feeling her way ) Get 'em off. Sandy begins to laugh, and soon Wendy joins him. They roll around on top of each other for a while.
WENDY: Have you ever had a nocturnal That's the name for when you wake up and find this little pool of sticky stuff, like after a sexy Sandy shakes his head.
SANDY: That's the name for when you wake up and find this little pool of sticky stuff, like after a sexy Sandy shakes his head.
WENDY: That's the name for when you wake up and find this little pool of sticky stuff, like after a sexy Sandy shakes his head.
WENDY: They didn't tell you this stuff yet? What planet do you live on? Sandy doesn't answer, but climbs back on top of her and kisses her neck.
SANDY: I love you.
WENDY: That's nice. Are you drunk?
SANDY: I don't know. How do I know?
WENDY: I don't know either. You spin around, when you lie down. Sandy rolls off her and lies on his back.
MIKEY: Oh shit. Glued by an electrical pulse to the rail, he shakes as the current flows through him. After a minute, his body slumps and slides down the road.
JIM: You want to come in, get a cup of coffee warm up? I can either walk you home, or you could crash in the guest room.
ELENA: Sure. Maybe coffee.
JIM: Phone's out. I hope the pipe's He walks into the kitchen. The pipes have begun to burst. There's a water leak running down the walls, forming a puddle on the floor. Elena has walked into the kitchen behind him. She leans against the counter, picking up the garter belt without thinking for a second, then putting it back down.
JIM: Oh well. Why don't you put on some dry socks and we've got some rain boots in the guest closet back there. Last room upstairs back of the hall. Elena climbs the stairs in her bare feet.
ELENA: ( heartbroken, softly ) Get dressed. Elena walks out of the room, back to the kitchen. Wendy gets out of bed quietly, leaving Sandy sleeping She looks at him lovingly, and tucks the blanket back up around him.
ELENA: You should let him sleep. Wendy enters. She looks inquisitively at the two adults.
WENDY: Where's dad?
CONDUCTOR: Good morning ladies and gentlemen On Paul, squinting in the harsh light.
WENDY: I don't like coffee.
ELENA: It'll warm you up. Elena sits next to her. They both raise their cups and sip the coffee, not noticing the simultaneity of their movements.
SANDY: Jim looks at him.
ELENA: He's too breathless to speak. They stand there, looking down at Mikey. Behind Elena and Wendy, Jim appears. He pushes softly by them toward the body of his son.
BEN: Jim he was just up in Silver Lane I think maybe a power Jim picks up his son. He carries him silently into the house. Sandy, now standing inside the foyer, pushes himself back against the wall as they pass, without expression. After a moment, from outside, the Hoods can hear Jim's Do you think? Maybe we should call The phone's out.
BEN: Do you think? Maybe we should call The phone's out.
ELENA: The phone's out.
ELENA: Ben, I don't think he wants us Wendy has been watching Sandy through the screen door.
WENDY: Wait, I She turns back up the front steps and gently goes in
ELENA: Oh you know, for a minute I thought it was
BEN: Paul? Yeah. You think
WENDY: He's probably been waiting all night at the station.
BEN: EXT. STREET. DAWN Elena, Wendy, and Ben reach the car and get in. The car starts and drives off. There are more crews out cleaning up the storm's debris and fixing the power lines as they drive.
BEN: There's something your mother and I have to tell you two Elena puts her hand out, almost touching him.
ELENA: ( softly ) Paul looks at Wendy, silently asking her what's happening. She casts her eyes downward, as does he.
THE END: Writers : James Schamus
