CLOSER NOW: We see them in glimpses: Their eyes - Lips - Hands Finally they part - the woman rests her head on his chest. She reaches out and strokes his hand. He stares at their fingers mingling together. The woman sighs.
WOMAN: I Love it here. I know you do.
WOMAN: I can feel my life - ya know. He stares up into the boughs above him and sHd.les. A legend appears: Il -_ 1 THE SOUND OF BALLGAmE OVER:
NATALIE: Morn'in Dr. Fowler.
MATT: Morn'in Natalie. How you doing boys?
JASON: Jason starts for the truck. Matt opens the door and the boy climbs inside the cab. Frank kneels down to Duncan.
F: Hey buddy . you upset that you're not Frank reaches out and puts his hand on the boys shoulder. Duncan pulls away. Frank looks up to Natalie for help.
F: He can come if he wants .we can manage, She smiles and shakes her head.
NATALIE: ahead. He wants to stay here.
F: Don't worry Dunk. You can come next time. Natalie kisses him and they're off.
F: C'mon up Jace.
MATT: Hold on a second. Need to know if he's ready first - Jason, can you tell me what's important? Jason hesitates.
F: on tell h°
JASON: ( NERVOUS )
L: He takes a breath.
JASON: and the way the back of a baby's neck smells if its mother keeps it tidy."
MATT: ( TO FRANK )
MATT: - come aboard sailor. Matt reaches down to give a hand up. Frank turns the engine over. It roars to life.
JASON: Thank you.
MATT: Ever been over there?
JASON: No sir.
MATT: It's beautiful. Isn't an island anymore though. It's a city. They have electric lights. Artesian wells, even a jail lighthouse isn't manned anymore - it's run by a computer When I lived there, had no ferry then` so we didn't even have cars, can you believe that?
JASON: How'd you get back?
MATT: Off the island? Jason nods. We rowed. Matt smiles at the memory.
MATT: Then we got a little outboard. That was great. A seven and a half horsepower it was - we lived there until I was about your age - then we left and became "harbor people". Jason seems to be digesting this.
JASON: I a "harbor person"? Matt hides a smile about to form.
MATT: Yep, Jason - we all are. Jason is full of questions. Matt knows the answers and doesn't talk down to him. Something the boy is grateful for.
F: At the helm. His eye s inted from glare and cold. He cuts back on the throttle s and heads for the winch. GLOVED HANDS pull up a BLUE-GREEN BUOY and slide the MANILA LINE into the WINCH. A POT surfaces and Frank sets it "Doors up" on the edge. He opens the doors. His hands work quickly and efficiently. He tosses a SMALL CRAB back into the water, pulls out a LOBSTER and measures the back. Too small. Then a nice sized LOBSTER is pulled out - it's missing the SCISSOR CLAW. He hands it to Matt. Baits the trap. Throws the winch and the next pot Matt sits inside, Jason on his lap. He reaches into a WOODEN BOX of RUBBER BANDS with a BANDING WRENCH and bands the crustacean's remaining CRUNCHER CLAW. Jason stares at the disfigured creature.
MATT: Oh boy you see what happened to this poor fel ow?
JASON: Well, the trap has nylon nets called heads2 side heads at b ends, so the lobster can crawl in. The "Bedroom" head inside, holds the bait and keeps it from escapingyou know the old saying "two's company three-s a crowd"? Jason nods.
MATT: Well, the trap has nylon nets called heads2 side heads at b ends, so the lobster can crawl in. The "Bedroom" head inside, holds the bait and keeps it from escapingyou know the old saying "two's company three-s a crowd"? Jason nods.
MATT: Well{ it's like that. You get more than two in a bedroom and chances are something like this is going to happen. That's why Frank can't leave these traps for more than a day. Matt holds up another Lobster and turns it belly-up. There are black balls on both sides of the tail.
MATT: Now the older females like this of gal, are the most dan erous - especially when they're growin' eyries.
JASON: Eggs. .one of these can take out two males easy - Then you wind up with lobster you can't sell - and as for this fine lady, she gets off easy, the state says you have to let her go. Matt throws her back in the water. Holds up the other one to Jason.
MATT: Eggs. .one of these can take out two males easy - Then you wind up with lobster you can't sell - and as for this fine lady, she gets off easy, the state says you have to let her go. Matt throws her back in the water. Holds up the other one to Jason.
TT: Can you handle this? Jason nods.
MATT: ( GENTLY )
MATT: Go ahead now, put it in the tank. Jason can't get the thing in the tank fast enough.
Q: FRANK O.S. Hey, dad can you give me a hand? The transistorized sounds of a baseball qame.
D C: Higher! HIGHER! SMALL CHILDREN are everywhere. A serious Super Soaker Squirt Gun fight in progress.
MATT: h, Ruth hates this kind. I bought the wrong buns.
MATT: I bought the wrong buns.
WILLIS: Maybe we can borrow hers. Matt follows Willis's gaze, to the object of his distraction: A PRETTY WOMAN IN TIGHT DENIM SHORTS. She-s bent over to wipe the ketchup-stained face of Jason ( he's wearing Matt's cap ).
WILLIS: Ah, what I would give to have back my Willis, you never had that in your youth. The woman turns around and catches Willis staring. It's Willis looks down, nonchalantly rifling through the bun bag. Matt waves to a passing man in khaki shorts, FATHER OBERTI,
MATT: Willis, you never had that in your youth. The woman turns around and catches Willis staring. It's Willis looks down, nonchalantly rifling through the bun bag. Matt waves to a passing man in khaki shorts, FATHER OBERTI,
MATT: Father! You made it!
FATHER OBERTI: Hey, if I don't see you fellas here, I don't get to see you at all.
ON F: He backwards-hugs Natalie.
F: You want a beer?
NATALIE: I think I'll see if your Mom needs any Good luck. She laughs-He grabs and tickles her but she breaks away and escapes inside the house. Matt watches on, and falls into a wistful daydream.
FRANK: Good luck. She laughs-He grabs and tickles her but she breaks away and escapes inside the house. Matt watches on, and falls into a wistful daydream.
WILLIS: Matt turns to him and, to Willis's surprise, ever so slightly, I NT. FOWLER HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - S Natalie walks in through the living room, pausing to examine a half finished ARCHITECTURAL MODEL that sits on a card-table next to a jigsaw puzzle. She looks toward the kitchen where a woman works at the sink. She takes a breath and starts there.
YO0: Frank, hunched over as he works, loo. ip at
F: Thanks for coming by. Wooo, is that new cologne? You really oughta take a shower when you leave that place.
TIM: Very funny.
F: Take off that head dress, chief, and give me a hand? Tim reaches up and pulls the hair-net off his head.
TIM: So, Mr. Strout mentioned you again.
FRANK: I bet he did.
TIM: Seriously, man. He still talks about you coming back. Says you're the best can packer he ever had. Be nods.
F: He always was a nice guy.
TIM: ( EXHAUSTED )
WILLIS: Excuse me boys - an offering. Catch He throws one to Father Oberti who sits talking with Willis's wife KATIE GRINNEL 50's, she is tal ing the priest's ear off.
KATIE: Becky went to the hairdressing academy after high school, but aft she got married and had the boys, she decided she wanted to stay home - she still loves doing hair though. Where do you go I just go to Super Cuts.
FATHER OBERTI: I just go to Super Cuts.
KATIE: You can't request the same girl at Super Cuts - you have to take what you can get. They don't know your hair - how can you get a good cut i they don't know the Father Oberti has the patience of.well,of a priest.
RUTH: Can you hand me that bowl dear? She does.
RUTH: Thank you.
NATALIE: I'm looking forward to the concert on Labor day. The music is so.unusual haunting really.. Ruth keeps chopping. Natalie chooses her words carefully.
NATALIE: How did you learn about that particular At Faro y thesis was on Eastern European .folk music. Natalie's lips tighten uncomfortably. The topic seems to int° date.
RUTH: At Faro y thesis was on Eastern European .folk music. Natalie's lips tighten uncomfortably. The topic seems to int° date.
NATALIE: ( LIGHTLY )
RUTH: Why didn't you? The answer to Ruth's question ( Duncan ) wanders in. His cheeks as big as Dizzy Gillespie's.
NATALIE: What are you eating? Duncan's mouth is so full he can hardly speak.
DUN: The two regard each other
NATALIE: How is it?
D C: ( SMILING )
D C: Swing me, Swing me.
NATALIE: Okay, okay Dunk. She gets dragged out of the kitchen. The screen door slams. Ruth finishes arranging the plate. Matt enters, and starts opening up the cupboards loo king for something. He squats down, burrowing into a cabinet.
MATT: It was nice of you to invite the boys.
RUTH: She hasn't brought them before because she's embarrassed. She shouldn't be Matt looks up from the floor.
MATT: ( TO RUTH )
F: There you go 0 . good, hands up, higher. That's it. Be - your knees
RUTH: I don't know why you had to put that monstrosity up. You're just going to have to take it apart when they leave. Matt rises, a bottle of lighter fluid in hand.
MATT: C'mon, Ruth, he's a kid. What did you expect? "Happy Birthday, here's a box. why don't you drag it around for a while?" He s a kid. He wants it now. Something across the yard catches her attention.
RUTH: Oh, no.
TO RICHARD: who has just arrived. He stays at the far end of the yard. Duncan does a running jump into his father's arms.
D C: Frank with Jason, looks up. Jason sees his father. He doesn't move. Natalie walks over to Frank, they exchange glances.
NATALIE: C'mon Jason.
JASON: Shedgrabs his hand. Straining to appear casual, traverses the
NATALIE: Shedgrabs his hand. Straining to appear casual, traverses the
YARD: C DUN
C DUN: Richard play-boxes Duncan. Duncan looks up at his mother.
D C: Daddv's takino us to the arcade.
RIC: Hey there buddy .Come on over here Jace- Jason looks away.
DUN: ( TO JASON )
RIC: ( ANGRY )
RUTH: IT'S OK-
MATT: IT'S OK-
MATT: IT'S OK-
F: Thanks for doing this mom.
RUTH: Are you alright?
F: Sure. Natalie and I want to take you and dad out tonight.
RUTH: Oh that's very sweet dear, but we already have plans.
F: You going over to the Grinnel's? Ruth shakes her head.
RUTH: ( SMILES )
FRANK: Oh, what are you seeing?
RUTH: The first film we ever saw together.
LORD BULLINGDON: Sir Richard this pistol must be faulty - I must have another.
SIR RIC: That is correct Lord Bullingdon - your pistol has fired and that counts as your shotMr. Lyndon are the rules of firing clear to you?
SIR RICHARD: Lord Bullingdon are you rsdy to receive Mr- Lyndon's fire?
LORD BULLINGDON: -.o yes -
SIR RIC: very well then - Mr. Lyndon cock your pistol and prepare to fire. Bullingdon is overwrought. He looks like he may vomit. Ruth leans over to Matt.
RUTH: Let's go. Ruth gets out of her seat. Matt looking confused follows.
MATT: What's wrong?
RUTH: I don't remember it being so tragic.
MATT: O h h always felt sorry for Barry.
RUTH: No, I mean it - maybe I relate to him.
MATT: No, I mean it - maybe I relate to him.
RUTH: What are you talking about?
MATT: Well, we both married above our station.
RUTH: Don't start that again. A moment. He takes her in his arms and kisses her. Looks into her eyes.
MATT: Happy anniversary.
RUTH: ( SMILES )
9 G: MATT ` RUTH
RUTH: She's not divorced yet.
MATT: It's the same thing. Maine has crazy laws, that's all.he likes the boys.
RUTH: You don't think he's thinking about-
TT: No.he's not going to marry her.
RUTH: Then what's he doing with her?
MATT: She probably loves him, Ruth. Girls always have. Why can't we just leave it at that?
RUTH: Hmmmm. He won't listen to me. I asked him three times to dismantle that swing-set.
MATT: Oh, let it stay up. Looks like a young couple lives here.
RUTH: He needs his head in school. Not in her.
MATT: So to speak. Ruth pinches his shoulder.
RUTH: it would help if you were my side.
MATT: ( PLAYFULLY )
MATT: You can put your shirt back on now. Alma stands and helps her husband dress. Yesterday he was up and around all afternoon, but toda - he tumbled. He's fallen down twice. have all I can do to get him up. He's weak and the longer you lay in bed - the weaker you get.
MATT: Elwyn, you need to do those exercises, you promised me, twice a day. I know you miss the work - important. but it's
ALMA: TO MATT )
ELWYN: ( speaks with difficulty ) How's your dad Matt? I'm sorry Dr. now Elwyn you remember Jesse Fowler passed on somi&ime back, we were at the funeral. Remember? Elwyn nods.
MATT: I'll be back in an hour. Forgot my lunch.
JANELLE: Starting to become a habit. I can get you something from Willis's. He's already out the door.
HENRY: Just missed him Matt, he went home for lunch today.
MATT: Right .I forgot he's got that interview.
MATT: Frank? Frank? Hello?
MATT: Frank? .. What are you doin ? Thought you were driving to Boston for t at rank slowly nos. His clothes are rumpled.
MATT: ( KNOWING )
NATALIE: Hello, Dr. Fowler.
MATT: Hi, where are the boys?
NATALIE: ( SHEEPISHLY ) ( TO NATALIE ) )
MATT: ( TO NATALIE ) )
BLEACHERS: Frank is sandwiched between Matt and Ruth. They are surrounded by dozens of young parents. Ruth doesn't look too tilled to be here.
FRANK: Wave you guys. Matt and Ruth follows Frank's gaze, to:
DOWN BELOW: Natalie has her hands full adjusting Jason's uniform while Duncan clings to her. She is waving up to the Fowlers amidst the chaos.
%Q,: Matt 's suddenly inspired. He leans in past Ruth, to Frank.
MATT: Did you tell your Mom how good it was?
RUTH: How good what was?
MATT: Frank had quite a time this afternoon Loved your coleslaw. Ate enough for two.
RUTH: That's what it's there for. Frank leans back behind Ruth to give his father the evil eye. He gets a grin from Matt for his trouble. Ruth almost catches Matt rises, shuffles past Ruth and Frank, whom he gives a firm pat on the knee. Hot dogs?
FRANK: I'll take one. Ruth puts her arm around Frank.
RUTH: ( re: Duncan and Jason ) So, how are the kids? Frank's caught off- guard. He shakes his head.
RUTH: . things okay?
F: Good, good. How'd your interview go?
RUTH: Good, good. How'd your interview go?
RUTH: How'd your interview go?
F: ( TOO FAST )
RUTH: Oh, good. Ruth watches Natalie below.
RUTH: She's such a brave girl.
F: That's it. You' re driving e nuts, Ma. Really. I've had lots of girlfriends.
F: I don't understand why this one is any I know you don't.
RUTH: I know you don't.
FRANK: Were not serious, Mom.
RUTH: No. It's a summer thing. She would like to believe him.
F: No. It's a summer thing. She would like to believe him.
RUTH: I see.
THE KITCHEN: Natalie enters with groceries. Richard is seated at the kitchen table. He's finishing the first half of a sandwich. He drains a glass of milk. Natalie sets her purse down on the counter, and starts cleaning up his mess.
NATALIE: How'd you g et in this time?
RIC: ( PLAYING ALONG )
RIC: Thank you. She throws the carton out. She takes a seat, and stares at him like a teacher counselling a troubled youth.
NATALIE: What can I help you with? He kicks back the last of the milk, wipes his mouth.
RIC: I was just dropping that off for Jason.
NATALIE: He points to a BASEBALL TROPHY sitting on top of the microwave. inscription bears his name and "Rockland High School 1982 Regional Championship."
RIC: He points to a BASEBALL TROPHY sitting on top of the microwave. inscription bears his name and "Rockland High School 1982 Regional Championship."
RIC: I didn't know where you'd want to put it. It was about time he got it. What am I going to do with it? Richard's wistful gaze stays locked on the trophy. For a moment, Natalie's and slips away.
NATALIE: I think it will mean a lot to him, Richard. He's really been improving lately .
RIC: ( a sharp turn ) So I've heard.
NATALIE: It would have been nice if you'd come to his game.
RIC: I just got your message. Where are t with him?
NATALIE: That's none of your business.
RIC: I see. They're my kids but they're none of my business.
NATALIE: You know what I mean.
RIC: I - - I was thinking about moving back.
NATALIE: What are you talking about?
RIC: What I talking about? I'm talking about moving back, that's what I'm talking about - I know what you're thinking, but it's different now.
NATALIE: Oh reall ? How's the job? Your father t ake you back on at the cannery?
RIC: ( DRILY )
RICHARD: Ya see my new rig out there? Natalie looks annoyed.
NATALIE: Yeah - it's real nice.
RIC: It's not exactly new, I traded David the truck for it. It's got room for all of us - a good grocery gettin car. A moment.
RIC: You wantta take a ride?
NATALIE: ( LAUGHING )
RIC: Change? No, I don't change. Everything around me changes. You change. You take my house, you take my kids, you fuck this other y- No, I don't change at all.
NATALIE: It's not your house.
RIC: Oh- No? NAT I o•? No- And as far as fucking oes - .who was it that answered your phone t %e other morning?
RIC: NAT IE
NAT IE: I don't care. Really, you can just stop now. It's not working. He takes a breath.
RIC: I just want.. -a chance.
NATALIE: For what? To fool them for a few days into thinking they have a real father, and then it's back to
RIC: ( cutting her off ) I their father.
NATALIE: ( VEHEMENT )
RIC: ( mimicking ° her ) "Positive consistent presence." Wow. What does that mean? I just don't get it. But I'm not fucking a college boy, am I?
NATALIE: Look .can you just go now? I really don't want you here when they get back.
RIC: Oh, no, wouldn't want that. He doesn't budge.
NATALIE: You have to leave. Finally, as if struck b some small discove . Richard places his large hands on the kitchen table and pus es himself up. He heads past Natalie without looking back. He closes the door firmly be ind him.
NATALIE: You know I've been ignoring our difference in age, but if you keep playing with those blocks, I'm gonna start to worry.
F: They're not blocks - they're gifts.
NATALIE: I'm sorry I know they're a gift and a very generous one. I'm gust concerned that Dunk. might think e's a little old to be playing with them.
FRANK: They're not for playing - they're to learn about unity & balance. Froebel called them "Gifts." This is the second gift - a sphere, a cube, and a cylinder. A five year old can learn the difference in form depending on how they look at Why didn't he say so in the first place?
NATALIE: Oh ou said second gift. How many are are there?
FRANK: A moment.
NATALIE: You've been pla in with these - excuse me, working wit t ese for how long?
F: Since I was about Dunk's age. My mom took me tough all twenty. So that's what a good mother does.
NATALIE: FRANK ??0
FRANK ??0: Come on down here and take a look. She sets down her beer and Joins him. The small wooden structure looks like a home that could have been built by Lautner or Wright Frank looks pleased. Natalie is distracted.
NATALIE: Your Mother gave you these Frank - I feel funny Duncan having them.
F: Don't be silly, it was her idea.
NATALIE: ( SCEPTICAL )
F: You're not looking at the house - look. It's not all mine, it's part Mack. Frank speaks excitedly, as he makes a quick sketch on a colored piece of construction paper using one of the boys' markers.
F: See the whole ideal of what Mack was trying to achieve was a common area in the middle of the house. I mean - a large, common space wasn't uni e to Mack, but the idea of separating the family so that the kids were on one side and the parents on the other, so they would all spill into the center . He looks over to Natalie, checking in. She smiles, and shifts her gaze.
F: I'm boring you, aren't I?
NATALIE: ( SOFTLY )
F: About what?
NATALIE: About you. . ,school,
F: I'd rather talk about our house.
NATALIE: I know you would.
F: What if I wait a year?
NATALIE: A year's not going to make a difference.
R: A year's not going to make a difference.
F: A year's not going to make a difference.
NATALIE: You can't do that, Frank.
F: I've thought a lot about this.
NATALIE: But you told me it takes forever just to establish yourself.
F: Exactl , so what's a year in forever? Know w at Duncan said today? She can't suppress a smile.
NATALIE: You wouldn't be changing the subject would you?
FRANK: What now?
NATALIE: What now?
F: He said, "Frank, I don't think Jason really understands girls."
NATALIE: ( LAUGHING )
F: He did . "understands girls!"
NATALIE: What did you say?
F: I said, "give him time, Duncan." They both break up.
F: I didn't know what to say! if this is how he is now - boy are we in trouble- He stops short. The word - We - hangs in the air. They watch each other, unsure of how to react. Changing the subject quickly. Frank reaches down to the grass and comes up with one of Duncan's toys. A real musclebound superhero. Somewhat grotesque.
F: ( reading the tag )
ACTION MAN?: Richard gave it to Dunk for his birthday.
NATALIE: Richard gave it to Dunk for his birthday.
RUTH: That was really good! OK it's 7:30 we should stop. The girls gather up their things quickly.
RUTH: Remember when you sing these words- The way we feel about the harbor, is how the Balkans felt about the river Sava. The girls start out of the room.
RUTH: Listen to your tapes "Moilih Tan is still very rough and we've of a 40 minute program to get ready by Labor Day.
MATT: Just hold still .
RUTH: Oh my God. Matt holds Frank's jaw. He gently turns his face toward the Frank has stitches over his right eye. The blood under the white of the pupil oozing. Both lips are bright and swollen.
F: Come on, Frank. Hold still. Ruth hovers, in shock.
DAD: Come on, Frank. Hold still. Ruth hovers, in shock.
MATT: Come on, Frank. Hold still. Ruth hovers, in shock.
RUTH: This was her husband, wasn't it? Frank nods wearily.
F: Ex, he dropped in. He takes the compress from Matt and gingerly applies it to his Press charges.
MATT: Press charges.
F: What's to stop him from doing it again?
RUTH: What's to stop him from doing it again?
MATT: Did you hit him at all? Tell me you hit him! Enough so he won't want to next time?
F: I don't think I touched him. Matt pulls up the skin around the bloody eye.
F: ! Jesus, Dad! Ruth stares at the Hospital band around Frank's wrist.
MATT: So what are you going to do?
F: ( SMILING )
RUTH: That's not the problem.
F: You know you like her.
RUTH: I like a lot of people. What about the boys? Did they see it?
F: They were asleep.
RUTH: Did you leave her alone with him?
FRANK: He left first. She was yelling at ham. I believe she had a skillet in her hand.
RUTH: Oh for God's sake.
RUTH: You didn't call them?
MATT: When was I going to call the police, Ruth? He just got in. Ruth scans the room.
RUTH: Where's the phone?
F: MOM! hold on a second, Calm down. Let's just talk about this. Ruth wavers. Now the cops'll go to her place first and it'll scare the hell out of the kids.
RUTH: MATT %Q, We have to call them Frank.
I: MATT %Q, We have to call them Frank.
MATT %Q,: We have to call them Frank.
F: It wasn't that serious.
RUTH: Of course. Just like the relationship isn't serious.
HATT: Ruth, this is not the time.
RUTH: Well, when is the time? After he knocks him into a coma? This is stopping. Now.
F: Oh really?
RUTH: Come Fall, you're on a plane. Are you taking them with you? How- do you think the boys will feel when you disappear?
F: HEY A
HEY A: This isn't just some sweetie from Vassar, that you'll see on holidays, Frank. You're not in this alone. Frank rises and leaves the room.
RUTH: This isn't just some sweetie from Vassar, that you'll see on holidays, Frank. You're not in this alone. Frank rises and leaves the room.
RUTH: Please listen. The sooner you end this thing the better. Ruth exhales. She returns to Matt, who is leaning against the recliner, chin in hand, deep in thought.
RUTH: What are we going to do? Matt deliberates.
MATT: I don't know.
RUTH: .you've got to talk to him.
HATT: I don't ow.,,I think he's right about scaring the kids. Why don't we call it a night? We'll deal with it tomorrow.
RUTH: Matt are you going to call the police or do I have to? You just ..s- Bd me what I think. if you want to call them. call them.
RUTH: It's not the first time she's played Matt seems relieved that she's talking to him. He sits on the bed and starts taking off his shoes.
MATT: She's not with the guy anymore.
RUTH: I mean from before.
MATT: What are you talking about?
RUTH: Oh, come on - you've heard the same things I have.
MATT: I think you forget. I don't take my lunch in the teachers lounge -
RUTH: Maybe he still loves her. Matt looks from Ruth, out the bedroom door, and into the hallway. He sees Frank rounding the top of the stairs. He gets up and closes the bedroom door.
HENRY: Best part of the cod - but most outsi ers, they won't touch it. The shack is too warm and smells of cordage and paint, spilled beer and male sweat. Jason is in heaven.
HENRY: The summer fishermen, the part-timers, like Frank here - get in your hair.
HENRY: There's as many as 80 of em with licenses Frank smiles at Jason.
FRANK: A lobster is simple enough Jason. But if the guy going after him is even simpler well he might as well give up.
HENRY: Don't hurt my feelings any. Easy to talk Try fishing in the winter, cold as hell 10, 12, 20 below - no matter Go, go, go, you've gotta go. You want your bread & flour, you gotta goo
F: Henry's just sore cause I catch twice as much as he does, with an old second hand Don't you listen to him son - that boat is fine. She was my first. Takes a sip of pop.
HENRY: Don't you listen to him son - that boat is fine. She was my first. Takes a sip of pop.
HENRY: Kinda miss her sometimes, and that truck you're driving .when you headed back to school Frank?- For some reason this strikes both of them as funny and they crack up. Not Jason, he seems concerned by the question. Frank sees this.
JASON: Hi, Dr. Fowler Matt waves.
MATT: What'd you pull? Frank glances up, then continues with his work.
F: Not too bad, about forty pounds.
MATT: Haven't caught sight of you in days.
F: You know where to find me.
MATT: When you coming home? Frank turns off the spigot.
F: Has it come to this? He jumps back into the boat and retrieves the bait bucket.
MATT: Come to what? Frank hops back onto the dock and sets down the container.
F: ( SMILES )
F: I'm thinking of building a couple hundred more traps - see if I can do better than break even. Matt doesn't comment. He picks up a crate and throws it up top.
MATT: it'll take you two years to get a licence to fish off-season.
FRANK: Right .unless Henry takes me on as his ster an. % Q They continue stacking.
MATT: You think he'd do that?
F: Maybe .it's as good a life as any. Good enough for your father - sometimes things skip a generation.
MATT: ( trying to sta calm ) C'mon Frank - you ow ycu need something Why? So I can have an Ivy Lea e education like you? Christ, i it's so great - how come you sneak out of that office everyday to come down here?
F: Why? So I can have an Ivy Lea e education like you? Christ, i it's so great - how come you sneak out of that office everyday to come down here?
MATT: I like spending time with my son.
FRANK: ( DUBIOUS ) UH HUHA A MOMENTA
UH HUHA: A MOMENTA
A MOMENTA: Frank lugs up the last container and takes a seat on the stack. He's worn out - takes a breather. Frank shakes his head.
FRANK: ( PAINFUL )
F: She's a wonderful girl .I see that. Frank looks lost. The silence is broken by a loud voice.
F: ( TO MATT )
TT: ( SMILES )
THE DININGROOM: Frank sits at the t lea His drafting tools are out. He's fully immersed in a sketch. Ruth enters quietly.
RUTH: Your father is snoring. Don't mind me. She takes a container from the fridgge, smells it, makes a quenstioning face, then puts it back - grabs another container and opens a cupboard. Pulls out a loaf of bread. She quietly places a sandwich in front of him, and takes a Eat-you must be hungry. Frank doesn't look up. his tone is flat, removed.
RUTH: Eat-you must be hungry. Frank doesn't look up. his tone is flat, removed.
F: I'm not hungry.
RUTH: He doesn't answer. Ruth sits there, awkwardly.
RUTH: So-you talked with her?
FRANK: d-,,how is she?
RUTH: d-,,how is she?
F: ( SHARPLY )
WONDERFUL GIRL: Frank finally puts down his pencil,',-and looks at her,
F: You're not reall going to have this conversation wit me now, Ma? Are you? Frank returns to his work. He doesn't look up again.
HENRY: You're nn'in late. Frank nods. Takes a seat, and starts in on the cod. Henry looks at the empty seat next to Frank.
HENRY: Where's our boy? Frank ignores the question.
WILLIS: You can't hypnotize the cards into changing, Matt. , late 50's, peers above his readin glasses. He is a lobster man by trade but fancies himself a poet.
WILLIS: For Christ's sake bet - or you know Carl's gonna start. Carl is indeed. "The be gar's do and widow's cat, Feed them an thou wi t grow fat. The gnat that sings his s er's song- Collective groans. Poison gets from slander's tongue. The poison of the snake and newt- Is the sweat of envy's foot. The poison of the honey bee. Is the artist's jealousy-"
MATT: Alright Carl. Two bucks. Matt throws his two bucks in.
MATT: Carl, you've really got to get off this Blake thing . you're in a rut. Frank tries to smile.
HENRY: Don't get him going Matt.
CARL: When I do my own stuff, you guys bitch
WILLIS MATT: That's not true. No! we like your stuff. The place breaks up with laughter.
WI IS: Everybody in? Frankie you in? Frank calls. Hands are shown. All eyes to Frank.
F: ( FORCED ENTHUSIASM )
WILLIS: Always the quiet ones. The game continues .
F: Sure. Right . I get in on the sixth. Oh, I'll send that out tomorrow, sir, no problem. Well, compared to your models no, they don't compare to your models
BEDROOM: and plops down at his drafting table.
FRANK: I'm getting another call. Can you hang on a second? Thanks. clicks on the other call.
F: Face? Jace is that you? What's going on? He listens.
F: I'll be right over.
G ROOM: Frank looks around the room. Natalie, her hair atangled mess, her face streaked from tears, paces nervously. She looks up at Frank. looks to el-e.
NATALIE: He.. just pushed me - he didn't hit me.
F: Oh, he didn't hit you? Should we throw a party for him.
NATALIE: Enough of this. We have to call the I'm airs ht, Frank. I don't know what to do,aoka I hate this. I hate the kids seeing this. Frank eraces her. She buries her head in his neck.
F: Enough of this. We have to call the I'm airs ht, Frank. I don't know what to do,aoka I hate this. I hate the kids seeing this. Frank eraces her. She buries her head in his neck.
NATALIE: I'm airs ht, Frank. I don't know what to do,aoka I hate this. I hate the kids seeing this. Frank eraces her. She buries her head in his neck.
F: Its okay, now. Listen to me, I'm not going anywhere .
DOWNSTAIRS: A POUNDING AT THE FRONT DOOR Natalie gives a horrified look to Frank.
F: Get them back upstairs.
NATALIE: Come on, you guys. Natalie hustles the boys upstairs.
FRANK: Come on, you guys. Natalie hustles the boys upstairs.
NATALIE: Come on, you guys. Natalie hustles the boys upstairs.
F: Richard, just get away fr here- Frank turns, his eyes lock on
NATALIE: Listen kids - Stay here. D C won't let go of her sleeve. He starts to move with her.
NATALIE: ( SCREAMING )
JASON: ( TO DUNCAN )
SHE SC: She moves quickly down the stairs.
NATALIE: She moves quickly down the stairs.
NATALIE: Emotionless, Richard turns to her - looks down at the floor then starts toward the kitchen. Natalie races down the steps and stops.
DOWNSTAIRS!: Richard sits at the kitchen table. The gun rests in front of him. His right sleeve splattered with Frank's blood.
BLACK: FADE IN:
TT'S OFFICE: He hesitates, presses the blinking hold button, picks up the Hello? .Hello? Natalie?
MATT: Hello? .Hello? Natalie?
RUTH: The girls gather their things and start out, laughing and running after each other. Matt stands in the hallway as they rush past.
BLACK: FADE IN:
WILLIS: ( SOFTLY )
MATT: ere-s Rut h?
KATIE: She went to lie down, Matt. He turns d heads upstairs. Willis and Katie watch him go.
UPSTAIRS: Matt approaches their bedroom. The door is a
BEDROOM: He steps in, to Ruth, who is on the bed. Her back is to him, a arently sleeping. Crumbled tissues litter the bed, the f oor, Matt ietl moves to her. He reaches down, about to touch her head. Something stops h°
UPSTAIRS: Frank's room is facing him. Instinctively, he goes to open the door, then pauses.
'S ROOM: Matt slowly enters. He looks around, as if freezing the room in his memory. The place is untouched. Frank's many sketches are still pinned to the wall. Some clothes lie scattered on the floor. His fishing cap. Matt starts to pick up. He takes Frank's clothes from the floor and places them on his bed. He looks at a dirty T-shirt in his hand. He brings it to his face. He inhales deeply, able to smell his son's lingering scent- Finally, he sets the shirt on the bed. Wanders around. Strays near Frank's drafting table- He reaches out, touching the table, grazing°the topogra h of scattered pencils - drawings strewn across it- The Froe e Gifts. He takes a seat at the table. Feeling its frame, the sketches, the seat below- And without warning he is overcome. He lurches forward, burying his face in his hands. The sobs come unrestrained, violently, like a sudden tidal wave.
MATT: Some more? Ruth looks up and nods.
JANELLE: I'm going to lunch Dr. Fowler She continues smiling as though ting to extend her tenderness. Matt avoids eye-contact. cie Leaves. Matt looks relieved.
WILLIS: Don't worry, I didn't make em. Matt takes a bite. He winces.
WILLIS: What? Oh, that's mine. He switches plates.
WILLIS: Matt takes another bite. Better,
WILLIS: You got back to work so quick, Matt. It's not too soon?
MATT: I can't stay home. So, how's business?
WILLIS: Oh,.you know, same old crap. Got held up again, you knew that.
MATT: No. I didn't.
WILLIS: yeah.they got seventy five bucks.
MATT: Were you on the till? Willis chuckles, shakes his head.
WILLIS: They would have gotten something else if I'd been on the till. Matt nods.
WILLIS: How you doin', Matt? You on't write, you don't call. Where'd the love go? '0-'
MATT: Nag nag nag. Matt glances at an old clipping from the BOSTON GLOBE stapled to the wall. It's a photo from the 67 Redsox dream to
WILLIS: They set the bail hearing yet?
MATT: Sometime in the next few days.ye ,
WI IS: Are you going?
MATT: I don't ow. Davis says it's a formallity really. I haven't talked to Ruth about weather she thinks we should go or not.
WILLIS: If it's too much for Ruth, I'll come with you Matt.
MATT: Thanks, but I'm sure it'll be alright- Davis says it's a formallity really.
WILLIS: The criminal trial set yet?
MATT: That's what they tell me, anyway.
WILLIS: That's what they tell me, anyway.
MATT: That's what they tell me, anyway.
WILLIS: Christ, they take their time.
MATT: .yeah, well, he's in there now.
WILLIS: They're keeping him busy, I'm sure - You know where they'll move h once he's Matt shifts the focus to his omelette.
MATT: You have any Tabasco sauce? Willis pauses. He looks around, ca `out to the kitc hen.
WILLIS: Hey, Pete. Tabasco. Pete! Ah, shit. He heads to the back. Matt looks out the window. A refrigera ted truck with the STROUT logo on it's side pulls to a stop at the light. Willis returns with sauce in hand.
WILLIS: Next weekend Matt- We really want you to come up to the c p- Katie's insisting. Not to pressure you or anything. But if you don't come se's going to invite her sister and that idiot and I know I'm going to wind up insulting him again. Matt considers this.
WILLIS: The future of my family is in your hands.
MATT: Let me ask Ruth.
WILLIS: You know, your seat is getting cold at the game. We have Carl's kid subbing for you. Not that we mind - he loses every time But we'd rather take your money.
WILLIS: How's Ruth doing?
MATT: Alright. Her.her car broke down.
WILLIS: Always something.
RUTH: ( not looking up ) How was your day? Matt carries the bags into the kitchen.
RUTH: My day was fine, too, thanks. Matt comes out of the kitchen.
MATT: Sorry. ,how was your day? Tried calling - thought you might have gone out. The Grinnel's invited us up to the camp next weekend. Said I'd check with you, if we had other plans
RUTH: That sounds fine. He turns, a little surprised.
MATT: We don't have to. She looks up at him.
RUTH: You don't want to go?
TT: ( WEAKLY )
RUTH: Great. Tell them yes.
MATT: ( HOPEFUL )
THE KITCHEN: The sink still has the plates and cups from breakfast. Matt starts to clean u Reaching for a dishrag on the counter, he notices the blinking o the answering machine. There are a half dozen messages. He hits play. Nothing. He finds th ,ol e.
CLOSE WILKENSON: Mr. Strout has been in the custody°of The Knox County Sherrif's department since August second, held without bail.The court is obliged to hold a bail hearing within two weeks of incarceration , which is the purpose of our procedings here today. Given the schedule considerations on this docket, the court feels that we should conduct the probable cause hearing in tandem. Witnesses will be called at this time. Unless there are any objections to the contrary this court will recess until 2:00 p.m.
WILKENSON: Mr. Strout has been in the custody°of The Knox County Sherrif's department since August second, held without bail.The court is obliged to hold a bail hearing within two weeks of incarceration , which is the purpose of our procedings here today. Given the schedule considerations on this docket, the court feels that we should conduct the probable cause hearing in tandem. Witnesses will be called at this time. Unless there are any objections to the contrary this court will recess until 2:00 p.m.
DAVIS: objection. Mrs. Strout's police interview is already documented, the defense has a copy of it. There's no reason to waste anymore of the court's time . - .
KEYES: Your Honor, we just want to review exactly what s. Strout saw on the afternoon of July 17th. Isn't that why we're here? The Judge nods.
JUDGE: ( TO NATALIE )
MARLA KEYES: ( RECAPPING )
NATALIE: 0 Right. I was in Jason and Dunk's room I didn't know what was happening downstairs. I was getting worried. I asked Jason to read Dunk a story. He didn't want a story - He wanted to come with me . so I sat him back down on the bunk and I left them in the room.
KEYES: You left "them"?
NATALIE: My boys. She starts to cry.
KEYES: ( SOFTLY )
NATALIE: I closed the door.I moved down the hall. I looked back to make sure they weren't behind me. I had just started down the stairs, when I heard the shot. I ran down. A deep sob .
NATALIE: .and Richard.
KEYES: I'm sorry, can we just back up? You said you "heard the shot"?
NATALIE: You "heard"? s- Strout, did you witness the accident? Prosecutor Davis jumps up.
KEYES: You "heard"? s- Strout, did you witness the accident? Prosecutor Davis jumps up.
DAVIS: b`ection. There are no grounds to in icate this was an "accident" The Judge nods.
JUDGE: ( TO STENOGRAPHER )
KEYES: ( GENTLY )
DAVIS: ( to Ruth re: coffee ) You sure you don't want?
RUTH: I'm fine. Davis takes a seat across from them.
DAVIS: You see, we can't appeal bail - It's just not set up that way. RUTH - -y You let that bastard walk out and we're supposed to just sit here? Don't tell us there's nothing to do about this.
DAVIS: It's not us, s. Fowler. The state's bail code is to ensure future court appearances
DAVIS: In this case Strout's family was prepared to put up a substantial amount of property as bail - That, along with his ties to the community made it hard for us to convince the judge of a serious "Risk of Flight".
RUTH: Oh - I see.
DAVIS: It's not just your case. Now you can file a civil suit. I recommend it. But not now, wait till after the crimminal trial. Matt stares at a small cartoonish statue on Davis's desk. It is one of those things that were popular in the 70's. A little man chasing an ambulance. It reads "World's Greatest Lawyer."
RUTH: And when will that be? Next week, next Well. honestly - anywhere between twelve and eighteen months?
DAVIS: Well. honestly - anywhere between twelve and eighteen months?
RUTH: I thought you said there would be a jury trial sometime in October!?
DAVIS: If he was incarcerated the udge would move for an October date - basically to save the County the cost of housing and feeding him as an inmate - But with bail the court date, unfortunately, is always Oh my god, oh my god. Matt jumps in.
RUTH: Oh my god, oh my god. Matt jumps in.
MATT: But you're confident you'll be able to put him away for good then. Right? Davis looks uncomfortable with the question. Ruth sees this. She gathers herself.
RUTH EJ: The things she said in there .what is the What? Oh, Jesus Christ! The wav this is going, that'd be my bet - especially since Nathan Strout brought up that barracuda from Boston - she's very smart.
DAVIS: RUTH DAVIS
RUTH DAVIS: What? Oh, Jesus Christ! The wav this is going, that'd be my bet - especially since Nathan Strout brought up that barracuda from Boston - she's very smart.
RUTH: This was no accident. Be killed our son in cold blood. How long would he be sent away for?
RUTH: How long would he be sent away for?
MATT: How long would he be sent away for?
DAVIS: Hard to say really. Anywhere between five to fifteen years. We think we have a good shot at the max - fifteen. Even with good behavior, he'd do a full ten.
RUTH: Ten years? Five years? Are you out of your mind!? He killed my son. Does anyone know Matt looks at his shoes, as Ruth glares down Davis. Davis sits back, a little shook up.
DAVIS: I'm sorry, s. Fowler. I understand. Unfortunately, in situations like this when there is no eye witness, there . well, there's not a lot we can do.
RUTH: You took the whole day? Matt nods.
SEE: MATT AT THE BASE OF THE surrounded by reporters.
REPORTER #1: Dr. Fowler, how do you feel about Richard's Strout's bail?
REPORTER #2: Do you plan to take any further legal action, Dr. Fowler?
REPORTER #3: Dr. Fowler, have you had any contact with Mr- Strout? Matt stands paralyzed, a deer caught in the headlights.
THE KITHCHEN: Matt enters as Ruth takes the plates to the sink. She keeps her back to him. He pulls off his coat.
MATT: Can you believe this? I ask those idiots to leave. No one budges. Not one. What the hell are we supposed to do, bring them sandwiches?
RUTH: ( her back to h° What are you asking or? Ruth turns to h
RUTH: ( SHARPLY )
KITCHEN: He opens a cupboard door and grabs some Fig Newtons. He stands there eating them, the door of the cupboard is long, the kind you see in old capes. Matt stares at the inside of the door. His finger slides down the length, he kneels down. We see what he's looking at. Pen and pencil marks straight lines each about two inches apart - each with Frank's name and aqe.
T DEN: Matt sits in his chair. The plays, muted. He °s looks at it, but he's not watching. Finally, he rises, clicks the off, with the remote, and flicks off the light.
RUTH: You slept late. For you. Matt pours himself some coffee.
MATT: I took one of your pills.
RUTH: You never do that. She turns the page, absorbed in an article. Shaking her head, she slaps the paper down.
RUTH: Well there it is in black and white. You should read some of the things he says. Matt takes a sip of coffee. He glances down at the paper. He nods, without really looking.
MATT: He checks his watch.
MATT: I should get going.
RUTH: Where? It's Saturday.
MATT: I won't be gone long. He bends, kisses her lightly on the cheek.
MATT: I'm meeting Willis. I'll tell him we're She stares at the kitchen doorway long after he exits. Finally, she pulls the paper back and resumes reading.
NATALIE: . Hi. elderly woman places a half -gallon of milk, a dozen eggs, d a carton of L&M cigarettes down or. the reg Natalie quickly rings up the items and bags them.
ELDERLY WOMAN: Can you break a fifty? Natalie takes the bill, places it in a drawer underneath the register, and hands the woman her change, with a smile.
ELDERLY WOMAN: Thank you, dear.
NATALIE: You're welcome.
ELDERLY WOMAN: Could I possibly get another bag? Natalie quickly double bags the woman's groceries. There is a break in the customer flow. Natalie steps to the end of the counter.
MATT: I just wanted to see how you're doing. I tried reaching you .
NATALIE: Oh. We're at my mother's house now. I'm sorry, I wanted to call you .
MATT: It's okay. She looks over. A man hovers over some ina?azines near the re inter.
NATALIE: ( ALMOST WHISPERING )
MATT: You don't have to. NATALIE ? er I didn't lie the first time, I didn't, it's just - how it came out. I'm so sorry. matt nods, as if he had assumed as much.
NATALIE: Is s- Fowler . does she know you're The Man places a 12- ack of beer on the counter. Natalie looks to Matt, who shakes his head no. Natalie steps back to the register and rings up the beer. Her chin quivers. She makes a mistake on the register, has to start over. A few more customers gather on line.
NATALIE: ( TO CUSTOMER )
MATT: ( QUIETLY )
RUTH'S: She opens the door. Suddenly there .-.. hand on her shoulder. She is startled. She turns around. It's Father Oberti.
RUTH: It comes in waves, .and then nothing. Like a rest in music. No sound - but so loud. A moment.
RUTH: I don't know what to do. Father Oberti nods.
RUTH: I feel so ang Father Oberti looks off in the distance.
FATHER OBERTI: Louise McVey lost a child a few years back. Maybe you remember.
RUTH: ( SEARCHING )
FATHER OBERTI: Yes. She told me about a vision she had when she found out her daughter had died .she saw herself at a great distance from the earth encircling it, an endless line - as she got closer she saw that it was made up of mothers traveling forward. She fell into line, and began walking with them. When they reached a certain point, the line divided. She said she knew - that all the millions of women on her side - were the mothers who had lost children-she seemed to find great comfort in that. Ruth doesn't react.
RUTH: How did she die?
FATHER OBERTI: A drowning . some kind of swimming FOWLER HOUSE - DAY mower moves across the lawn, spitting up a shower of grass. Matt pushes the mower.
RUTH: FOWLER HOUSE - DAY mower moves across the lawn, spitting up a shower of grass. Matt pushes the mower.
YVONNE: Oh, they're beautiful on you Ruth. Ruth stands up, takes a few steps. She stares at the shoes. They are a rich black.
RUTH: Do you have them in brown?
YVONNE: I think so, let me check. Yvonne disappears into the back. Ruth walks to the front of the store, browsing. She moves to the display window and brings a pair of very young pumps u to her nose, and inhales. She smiles and sets the shoes bac on the ledge. Something OUTSIDE catches her attention.
RIC: Oblivious to Ruth's presence.
RUTH: ( SCARED )
KATIE: s lil Charles down at the Oh and here' pool - He figured out how to get down to the pool on the elevator all by himself.
RUTH: ( PATIENTLY )
KATIE: Oh yeah. Oh here's Shannon waitin in for that rollercoaster - You know the Ruth has no idea.
LINE: Oh yeah. Oh here's Shannon waitin in for that rollercoaster - You know the Ruth has no idea.
RUTH: ( POLITELY )
KATIE: Well some of em. yeah - sixty minutes and upward-Unless of coarse ya got the What's the fast pass?
RUTH: What's the fast pass?
KATIE: Well ya got all the different "Kingdo - there-and so you take the fast pass it's a kind of a laminated card and you put it intah a machine and it tells you what time to come back - so you can go right in without waitin in lane. You guys ever go down to Florida? Ruth smiles at the thought and shakes her head-
MS": Well ya got all the different "Kingdo - there-and so you take the fast pass it's a kind of a laminated card and you put it intah a machine and it tells you what time to come back - so you can go right in without waitin in lane. You guys ever go down to Florida? Ruth smiles at the thought and shakes her head-
RUTH: 0 -.no0 How many grandchildren do yo u have now? Katie turns from the snapshots and takes a breath while holding up her fingers to count-She is genuinely unsure.
KATIE: ( under her breath Well there's lil Charles, Shannon, the three older ones and the babies . eleven.
RUTH: That must wonderful.
KATIE: ( by rote ) "I Well. Willis always says guess there's no danger of us dying off -
KATIE: I'm sorry - I wasn't. Ruth waves her off good naturedly-
RUTH: I wanted to have more ..abut we had Frank, and Matt was just starting his practice.. - - -I guess it made sense.
KATIE: ( GUILELESS )
MATT: How much of this is yours? Willis plants his in the stump.
WILLIS: ( SMILING )
WILLIS: All the way to the other shoreline. Matt turns to him, grinning.
WILLIS: Almost three hundred and fifty acres. Know what it went for when I bought it? You don't want to know. Matt continues surveying, awed. Willis turns, starts walking back to his chore.
WILLIS: Come on, I'll let you help me. Matt joins him. Together, they bundle up the wood.
TO: Matt and Willis load the wood into a small trailer attached a GREEN POLARIS MAGNUM 500 ATV.
WILLIS: Only got 1/2 a chord of Oak left at home and you know how much that bastard Daniels charges - least I can stack this up to the cabin . have something to burn this fall.
THE: Matt sits behind Willis on the ATV as they pull the wood up road. The trees clear and we see the cabin. A GREEN SUBARU FORESTER is parked in front.
KATIE: It's a wonderful product and the treat you pretty good. It was on account oz, selling Mary Kay, that we got the new Subaru.
RUTH: ( SMALL TALK )
WILLIS: Well it's not really a car, it's got four-wheel drive. It's a little SUV. The Grinnel's custom, is to loudly, and with very little effort, finish each others sentences. This is how they have fun.
KATIE: What the hell is that S crap?
WILLIS: Sports utillity vehicle.
KATIE: ( to Matt and Ruth ) It's a little jeep. S , ATV, C - what's with all these .? She searches for the word. Little help? Anyone, anyone?
RUTH: ( FINALLY )
KATIE: Yeah, guess it's too much trouble to just say what something is anymore.
WILLIS: ( to the table ) What does PMS stand for?
KATIE: Yeah well,I was an army brat. I grew up with jeeps. Willy is just uncomfortable that I know more about one masculine thing than he does. Just one? The pty chuckles.
WILLIS: Thanks, buddy. a ite bit Ruth watches as he drains the bottle. She shoots him a look. He catches it - , V o-, A moment.
RUTH: ( LOOKING AWA )
KATIE: ( LAUGHING )
KATIE: They're pillowcases from our first house. Ruth smiles at the memory. Katie sits back down at the table.
KATIE: Oh, I've saved every knick=knack ever had.
I: MATT 1?? 0`1
WILLIS: Well he dunnit want to go overseas - oh no.he told them he'd Reep doinit as long as he could stay in Maine or Vermont-
KATIE: ( INTER PTIN )
WI IS: Course he don't like working in recruitment anyhow's - Christ he gets them bo s come down to to the office at the mal - he gets them half-way processed and they decide they want that delayed entry thing - Christ I could't do
IT: Or they decide not to join up at all and
TIE: Or they decide not to join up at all and
WI IS: Well, like that one kid - he had him all the way through the works and then - Oh
KATIE: His folks called David and said that the boy wanted out so bad that he'd taken his own life. They all look at each other. How did this conversation get so Yeah well something like that gets to you Christ, I couldn't do it.
WILLIS: Yeah well something like that gets to you Christ, I couldn't do it.
MATT: I'm going now. She looks up.
RUTH: ( FLAT )
MATT: You ready to go back?
RUTH: ( T IN )
MATT: ( T IN )
ANGLE: Who looks to Ruth for some kind of reaction. Nothing. Matt heads out the door. Ruth continues sorting the mail. She stops on one piece. Seems stunned, repeatedly reading it.
THE ENVELOPE: It's from Publisher's Clearinghouse. In oversized block letters, it reads,
MATT: ( INTO PHONE
MATT: Hold on a second. He puts his mouth over the speaker and lowers the phone. Nods to Janelle and she enters.
JANELLE: Dr. Fowler, I'm sorry. There's someone ' Ryan Collit. His mother`N brought him in. He doesn't have an appointment but I'm sorry bL _; you'll have to re-schedule. Janelle's a little taken aback.
JANELLE: He's Ann Collit's son. I thought. Well, you know, I thought you might want to
MATT: ( into the phone ) I'll call back later. He hangs up. He gets up and grabs his jacket
MATT: Sorry Janelle, I'll be back at four.
JANELLE: ( UNCOMFORTABLE )
LOBBY: William Davis's secretary, REGINA, 40, sits at her desk. She is on a call, Matt stands waiting.
REGINA: ( HANGING UP )
MATT: I really need to see him.He go to lunch?
REGINA: That's right. She senses something in his tone.
REGINA: He's across the street. I NT. kUURRET ON MAIN RESTAURANT DAY A bustling dining room, packed with businessmen. The nice place in town it's lunch hour. The doors open. Matt enters. He scans the room. His eyes set on
WILLIAM DAVIS: sitting at a table with colleagues, sharing a laugh.
DAVIS: Hey, Matt. Matt stands awkwardly, as Davis' companions look on.
DAVIS: ( POLITE )
DAVIS: We're doing all we can, Matto I promise you that.
MATT: What can I do Bill?
DAVIS: There's nothing. Matt takes Davis' arm.
MATT: It can't be manslaughter. There's got to be something - isn't there something you can find? A piece of evidence? That happens - doesn't that happen? He realizes he's holding Davis' arm. He lets goo Davis looks at Matt sympathetically.
DAVIS: We really are doing everything we can, Matt - But I'm not going to lie to you - We've got no witnesses - only Strout - who claims there was a struggle - and forensic can't determine if there was a struggle. because of the condition the house was in when Frank got there. Matt says nothing. ¢Q., They come to the corner. Matt steps under an awning and into the shade.
DAVIS: I'm sorry att. if it helps, we all want this guy put away. We have kids, too. Matt nods, without looking at him. Matt looks at Davis's hand moving the change. He becomes hypnotized by the sound. Davis continues talking. Matt can't hear a word of it, though. All he hears is the clinking of the coins in the EXT. GIGI HARBOR - DAY Matt stands in the wheelhouse, he brings the helm about,.cuts back on the throttle and heads for the winch, the stern is stacked with four high rows of Frank's empty traps. Matt pulls up a string of pots. Opens the door and pulls out a young male. He flinches and drops it. His finger goes to his mouth.
T BOOTH: Willis sets down a cup of coffee for himself. Takes a seat across from h' They both gaze absently out the window.
RUTH: ( taking off the phones ) There's a pause, then the door slowly opens. Natalie takes a step in. Ruth looks up. If she's surprised, she doesn't show it,
NATALIE: I - -a I hope this is okay. Ruth says nothing. Natalie moves closer.
NATALIE: I've been hoping we might be able to get together - to talk. Ruth watches her as she approaches the desk. Natalie bends and cautiously extends her hand for Ruth to hold.
NATALIE: I just want to tell you how -e- And in a flash Ruth SLAPS Natalie across the face with her open Natalie springs back, paralyzed with shock. She tries to catch her breath, staring directly at Ruth. Eyes ablaze, Ruth says nothing. - The two women look at each other for a very long time And final , as if she finally somehow got the resolution she came for, lead held high, Natalie turns and walks out.
CHARLES: We lost a few strings and we had a fair idea it was him who was doing it - so's I just flat out asked him "No wasn't me." You should of seen what he tried to pull last wintah. He was up to the island there - and he claimed our traps were in his part of the cove - Bobb was up to the tavern on the head and e d him shooting his mouth off about how he and his stet an was gonna take a bat to the old man & me - so's I told the old man about it and he says "Don't hurt my feelings none."He says "Go on down to the Walmart and buy a couple of plastic bats." Next day the old man walks intah the office at the market - near the scales - where he know's the son of a bitch is gonna come in with his catch. He's got two six penny nails a hammer, and the bats o'coarse, so he nails those things right intah the wall. The guy at the scales looks at him like he's nuts "Whatta ya doing there Ivan" he says "Just sending a message" and the old man walks out. I come in and I could see what he wrote across them things. The door to the bar opens.
TIM: "Here's the bats - if you got the balls." Tim and the others crack up.
CHARLES: "Here's the bats - if you got the balls." Tim and the others crack up.
CHARLES: Didn't touch our traps aftah that. stops mid sentence.
TIM: Dr. Fowler? Matt flinches, "surprised" to see Tim.
TIM: No - no, I don't even see Richard anymore. And he'd never tell me anything, believe Matt takes a pull of beer.
MATT: Sure, of course. I was just wondering, you know, maybe there was something you heard, through the grapevine, maybe one of his buddies said something -
TIM: ( SEARCHING MEMORY )
MATT: I was thinking, Richard's brothers, they're still working with you, right? They must talk. Tim throws a nervous look over to the table where his friends ea They're oblivious to the conversation. He looks back to Matt, shifting in his seat. Matt leans forward. He speaks in an intense whisper.
MATT: I'm just saying, Tim, if we could find something, something concrete. If you could just . it could be just a slip of the tongue - Tim looks into Matt's eyes, feeling the torment.
TIM: I'll keep my ears open. Matt looks at him, dissatisfied.
TIM: It's funny running into you here, Dr. Matt looks at Tim blankly, then finishes his beer.
NEXT LIGHT: Matt pulls into the left-hand turn lane and signals. There is a car in front of h° Above the licence plate is a yellow sticker which reads "Student Driver-" The plate itself is a vanity plate it says P Y4US- A 73 BLUE PICK- truck eases to a stop in the right lane, next to Matt's car. Matt glances over, for a moment he half expects to see Frank. He cracks the passenger side window, for a better look. He stares at the driver's window. Their window rolls down. attractive girl with short brunette hair stares back at Lost in the absurdity, he doesn't look away. The light changes. The girl smiles sweetly and blows him a kiss, before continuing through the light. Matt watches her go - he smiles - as if somehow relieved. The car behind him gives a polite toot - Matt makes the - SOUTH END MARKET - S Ruth enters, passing the empty front register. She strolls down an aisle, pulling some items from the shelves. TWO N CHAT from the next aisle.
NICK: ( a little too loudly ) Good evening, s - Fowler.
RUTH: Oh, and a pack of Marlboro Lights,
NICK: As NICK reaches up to the overhead cigarette area, he can't help but glance past Ruth. Ruth catches this, she turns, and sees -
RIC: appear from a far aisle - he makes a BEELINE FOR THE DOOR,
KITCHEN: Ruth is putting groceries away, ignoring, or trying to, Matt who has appeared in the doorway. She puts milk in the refrigerator and stares into it for a long time, trying to decide what to do. He can feel her judging
H': F'inall , .having resolved something in her mind, she closes the refrigerator door- revealing, taped to it, several newspaper articles on the case, gathered by her, no doubt, including one with a picture of Frank.
MATT: How did it go today? She doesn't answer.
MATT: Something wrong? She doesn't turn around.
RUTH: Wrong? Like what, Matt? What could be She continues "straightening up", starts recklessly washing Matt doesn't leave. A plate SHATTERS in the sink. This stops her. She stares at it, then feels his presence. She turns around.
RUTH: What do you want? He looks unsure of himself.
MATT: I want to know what's going on.
RUTH: You're obviously upset. If there's something you want to talk about .
MATT: You're obviously upset. If there's something you want to talk about .
RUTH: Talk? Who, us? Oh, you mean to each other? What if somebod waked in? They wouldn't recognize us. They'd think they had the wrong house.
MATT: Do you want to talk or not?
RUTH: ( "SEARCHING" )
MATT: ( SLOW BURN )
RUTH: Forget it, Matt. Why don't you just go .
MATT: ( BUILDING )
RUTH: I want you to stop acting like nothing's happened! That's what I want.
MATT: Why? because I'm not bouncing off the No, Matt, That would require feelings. We don't want you to hurt yourself.
RUTH: No, Matt, That would require feelings. We don't want you to hurt yourself.
MATT: Do me a favor, Ruth. You want to have a grieving contest, go find someone else. He starts to turn.
RUTH: yeah, I know how you grieve. have another beer. He spins back.
MATT: WHAT DO YOU OW? WHAT? You know nothing! You know nothing about me. What I go through every day - ever lousy, stinking day.
RUTH: No, I don't know, Matt. I don't know what you go through, or if you go through ything. But that's your choice, dear, not mine.
MATT: You're goddamn right it is. My choice is to not scream at the world. Maybe one of us has to be reasonable here, did you ever think of that?
RUTH: Reasonable? e, Matt, I don' t know about you, but I ss my son. I'm glad you have time for reason. That's what you imparted to Frank, That sense of reason - Oh, he thought you were very reasonable.
MATT: What the hell is that supposed to mean? She is about to say something, but stops short.
RUTH: She turns back to the dishes. He moves in on her, seething.
MATT: What are you really trying to say anyway? She says nothing, picking up the broken plates.
TT: .that I'm the one responsible? She drops the pieces back in the sink and exits.
THE HALL: He's fast on her heels. She heads for the bedroom.
MATT: Let me tell you something. Let me tell you She throws the door closed behind her, but he bangs it open with his palm.
MATT: You of it backwards. I know what you think. That I was too lenient, that I let him get away with .
RUTH: Everything. Everything! She exits into
THE: He's right behind her.
MATT: Oh, really?!? Why do you think he never came to you?
RUTH: He wouldn't talk to me, Matt. He didn't trust me. You made sure of that.
MATT: Why would he talk to you, Ruth? You never No. But you did. You were winking at him the whole time. You encouraged him. You wanted what he had. Her.
RUTH: No. But you did. You were winking at him the whole time. You encouraged him. You wanted what he had. Her.
MATT: You've got to be kidding.
RUTH: You know it. Come on. You wanted it, and you couldn't get it - that's why you didn't stop him so you could get your kicks through your son. You know that's what happened. And now you can't cope with it. You can't admit the truth - To me, or to yourself - You can't admit that he died for ygur fantasy piece of ass. Matt, stunned, reels for a second And then, finally, explodes.
TT: You want to know why our son is dead, Ruth? He wasn't with her because of me, he went there because of you. Because you were so controllins, so overbearing, so angry that he was it, that he was our only That is not true.
RUTH: That is not true.
MATT: It is! From the time he was little you were telling him why he was wrong. Everything he did was wrong. What was wrong with him, Ruth? She stares at him, dumbfounded.
MATT: You are so unfor ivinge You are. That's what he said. Ana you're playing the same shit out with me - That's a horrible way to be! Horrible. You're bitter, Ruth. You can point your finger at me all you want
MATT: .but you better take a good look at yourself first. She already has, of course.
RUTH: ( WE )
MATT: You expect me just to open up to you? Embrace you? You scare me. How can I talk to you? I can't even look at you. They suddenly become aware of the DOORBELL, ringing, over and They watch each other, both reeling, both out of breath. The DOORBELL continues.
MATT: ( COMPLETELY DRAINED )
THE DOOR: Matt opens it. There is no cop, just Kristen Gellar, 12, a young gymnast who'd like to compete in Hawaii.
KRISTEN: ( REHEARSED )
MATT: I. .sure. I'll take some.
KRISTEN: Terrific, how many? We have a special today, 6 bars for ten dollars. if by rote, Matt pulls out his wallet and hands her a ten.
KRISTEN: Great! " particular brands you like? We have , Goobers, Hershey's- Anything. Anything is fine .
MATT: Okay - He's about to close the door.
KRISTEN: if you could just sign this. I have to give you a receipt. I'm sorry .this pen Matt hands her one from his pocket. Matt waits as the girl fills out and hands him the receipt. He closes the door before she can thank h°
MATT: ( SOFTLY ) ( BARELY AUDIBLE )
RUTH: ( SOFTLY ) ( BARELY AUDIBLE )
MATT: Ruth .001 had no right. . .what I said -0. no one, no one should ever have to hear I'm so sorry. He looks at her, as she starts to cry. He moves closer to her.
RUTH: ( BARELY AUDIBLE )
MATT: It's okay.
RUTH: No, you're right, Matt, You are am-.. horrible. ?-`
MATT: I don't blame you, Matt. I just. that girl came by. She came by the school, and I couldn't forgive her. I was She lets go, crying hard. He lifts her head onto his lap. He reaches out, stroking her head, pulling her matted hair from her forehead as she sobs into his lap.
RUTH: I don't blame you, Matt. I just. that girl came by. She came by the school, and I couldn't forgive her. I was She lets go, crying hard. He lifts her head onto his lap. He reaches out, stroking her head, pulling her matted hair from her forehead as she sobs into his lap.
RUTH: I'm sorry. I have been so an - I keep seeing him, Matt. I've seen him. Matt nods, but he's not really clear.
MATT: ( CONFUSED )
I COULD'VE: ( SOFTLY )
RUTH: ( SOFTLY )
RUTH: She breaks into sobs.
RUTH: .and I don't know what to do.
MATT: Where did you see him?
RUTH: Eve here - Downtown, and the market. I saw at South End. He smiled at me, Matt - I keep running into him . he s °led. Matt still strokes her hair. But he's in another world.
WILLIS: The ne of the game is Texas Chase' He groans.
WILLIS: Is there a problem?
HENRY: Why do you delude yourself with that What are you talking about?
WILLIS: What are you talking about?
HENRY: Look we're not in Vegas. It's five card draw, or seven card stud.
WILLIS: ( ENJOYING THIS )
HENRY: Matt smiles. He's missed these guys.
CARL: I'll open with a dollar.
HENRY: Raise a buck. The bet's to Matt. He stares at his cards for a very long time. Willis looks to say something, when Henry hits his arm. This stops him. Matt looks up. He sees the patience they are all exercising for his typical indecisiveness. This bothers him. He stares back down at his cards. Stalling, waiting for someone to bust him. He looks u at Willis - Henry - Carl. They all sort of smile uncomfortably. He can't take it.
TT: Oh, for Christ sake say something! This wakes them up.
MATT: Quit pussy footing around me d 't! You just gonna let me stare at these cards all night!? No one wants to make the first move. This upsets Matt even more.
MATT: O.K. fine! He stares back down at his cards. Finally it is Carl who speaks. There are things of which I may not speak; There are dreams that cannot die; There are thoughts that make the strong heart weak, And bring a pallor into the cheek, And a mist before the eye. And the words of that fatal song come over me like a chill: A boy's will is the wind's will, And the thoughts of youth are long, long thoughts. Matt looks up from his cards into Carl's eyes. The two men regard each other.
WILLIS: Come back in for a drink.
WILLIS: Soon baby, Matt's still here.
WILLIS: I'll be right there.
WILLIS: She's all set - now what can I get you?
MATT: I'm fine thanks. Willis nods and takes a seat.
WILLIS: - you back on the wagon? He is.
WILLIS: Sit down Matt you're making me nervous. Matt takes a seat.
WILLIS: I'm glad you came tonight.
MATT: Me too.
WILLIS: Boy, Carl really laid on the verse huh?
MATT: ( CHUCKLING )
WILLIS: I don't know - sort of silly really.
MATT: I don't know - sort of silly really.
WILLIS: C'mon what is it?
MATT: This thing with - with Frank when he was about three, I guess. We were over at my folkls house.
MATT: Mom always liked little dogs - this one was a - Pekingese, I think. I remember hearing this yelp, and then a scream. Frank ran out pointing to his finger. I looked at it couldn't see an thino. Mom said Frank must have "cornered the dog" and I knew she was probably right. We were driving home, and Ruth noticed Frank itching his a ..she pulled back his sleeve, and there were these two deep, bloody, puncture marks.
WILLIS: Why do you think he pointed to his Matt shakes his head.
TT: ( SEARCHING )
WILLIS: He gets up and heads to the bar.
MATT: ( TO HIMSELF )
WILLIS: I was thinking just the other day about the last time Frankie was- Matt cuts him off. His name was Ar k. Not Frankie. Willis looks stunned.
WILLIS: .I'm sorry Matt. I don't care .he just never liked being called that.
WILLIS: Matt nods. He looks away.
MATT: She didn't tell me, Willis. She never said a word - She saw him at South End.
WILLIS: She's seen him before. It's killing her I didn't think about bail. I thought I wouldn't have to worry about him for
MATT: She's seen him before. It's killing her I didn't think about bail. I thought I wouldn't have to worry about him for
WILLIS: You know what I heard? He's tending bar up to Old Orchard Beach. Matt looks up.
WILLIS: For a friend. Ever notice even the worst bastards have friends? Nobody knows him over there. If they°do, they don't care. They drink what he mixes Willis sets a can of Moxie down in front of Matt.
WILLIS: ( referring to the can ) I don't know how you drink this stuff it's what drove me to beer as a child. He sits down with his own drink. A moment.
WILLIS: I hate him, Matt. My boys went to school with h° He was the same thei.,- Know what he' 11 do? Five at the most - And then you' 11 e bumping into h all over
AGAIN: I ow.
WILLIS: Remember that woman about seven years a o? Shot her husband sopped him of f t e bridge in the St - Gac-: with a hundred pound sack of cement and said the whole way through it nobody helped her. Know where she is now? She's in Sears ort now, a secretary. And whoever helped her, where the hell is he?
WILLIS: it'd break my heart Matt, it would, but - you ever think about just - moving away? Matt nods. Stares into his hands for a long time.
MA,TT: yeah, we have. Finally, he looks up, his eyes meeting Willis I s.
MATT: It wouldn't matter.
ANGLE MATT: Trying to take it all in. But not really present. Suddenly he turns and leaves.
RIC: Hey -o- wait up.
WAITRESS: Good night, Richard. See ya tomorrows She starts to walk to her car- He catches up to her, accompanying her to her car.
RIC: You want to come over for a drink? Just a She stops in front of her car.
WAITRESS: No, thanks. Maybe some other night. He stands in front of his Brown Suburban, watching as the Waitress gets in her car, pulls away and leaves.
RICHARD: Fuckin' bitch. He turns and freezes. Matt Fowler stands a few feet away, an Ortaies calibre 7.65 automatic directly at Richard's face. His gloved hand poin grips the gun tightly.
RICHARD: Dr. Fowler?
MATT: Don't talk. Unlock it and get in.
RIC: He . wait a minute. Let's, let's just calm down. Matt COCKS the gun.
RIC: Alright! Shit. Richard obeys. He unlocks both doors. Matt opens the back door, but stays planted, the gun trained on Richard gets in the driver's seat. Matt climbs in the back. He presses the gun's muzzle against the back of Richard's head.
MATT: Is there any one at your place?
RIC: ( IRONICALLY ) NOT TONIGHT
NOT TONIGHT: Good. Drive there. Richard looks over his shoulder to back the car up. Matt aims at his temple, but does not look at his eyes. Richard finishes backing up and puts it into drive.
MATT: Good. Drive there. Richard looks over his shoulder to back the car up. Matt aims at his temple, but does not look at his eyes. Richard finishes backing up and puts it into drive.
MATT: Drive slowly - don't try to get stopped.
RICHARD: He was making it with my wife. His voice is careful, not pleading. Matt presses hard with the muzzle against Richard's head. Richard flinches and moves his head forward. Matt lowers the gun to his lap.
MATT: Don-t talk.
RIC: You wouldn't have it cocked, would you? For when I put on the brakes. Matt COCKS it. It is now. Richard tenses. He drives around the side of the building.
MATT: All right. Richard looks at the gun, then gets out. He moves across the Matt closely behind, looking at the row of small backyards on either side of them and scattered tall trees. He glances from house to house. Looking for signs of one insomniac neighbor, some man or woman sitting alone watching the all-night channel from Boston. All is quiet. They move up the back walk and to the side kitchen door. Matt stands directly behind Richard as he opens the door. It-s pitch black inside the duplex.
MATT: Turn on the light. Richard flips the wall switch. in the light. Matt stares at his wide back, and long reach.
MATT: Where-s you r suitcase? Richard almost turns around.
RIC: My suitcase?
MATT: Where is it?
RIC: in the bedroom closet.
MATT: That's where were going then. When we get to a door you stop and turn on the light. They cross the kitchen. Matt can't help but glance at the sink and stove and refrigerator: no dishes in the sink or even the dish rack beside it, no grease splashings on the stove, the refrigerator clean and white. Matt becomes momentarily 2reoccupied with one of Duncan's drawings taped to its door.
MATT: Richard stops. Matt looks conflicted. Doubt has crept into his face For a moment he seems to have lost his resolve.
TT: .keep going.
LIVING ROOM: A light flicks on. They take the hall past the living room. Matt doesn't want to see anymore of Richard's life. But he can't help h° elf. He takes it all in: Magazines and newspapers in a wicker basket, clean ashtrays, a stereo, CD's neatly shelved next to it. They continue down a hallway.Richard stops outside a door.
RIC: There's no wall switch.
MATT: Where's the light?
RIC: the bed.
RICHARD: I wanted to work things out with her. Try to get together with her again. But I couldn't even talk to her. He was always with her. Dr. Fowler, I'm going to jail for it. I am going to jail. If I ever get out I'll be an old man. Isn't that enough ?
MAXT: You're not going to jail. Pack clothes for warm weather.
RIC: What's going on? You're not gonna let me Matt looks away. He doesn't answer.
RICHARD: Dr. Fowler?
MATT: You're jumping bail.
RIC: .Dr. Fowler. Matt points the pistol at Richard's face. The barrel trembles a little. canvas bags. He places them on the - He pulls a third bag, a small, red, woman's suitcase, Natalie's no doubt, next to the others. He moves to the bureau.
MATT: It's the trial. We can't go through that, my wife and me. So you're leaving. I've got you a ticket. My wife keeps seeing you. I can't have that anymore.
RIC: He was making it with my wife. I'd go pick up my kids and he'd be there. Sometimes he spent the night. Duncan told me. He doesn't look at Matt as he speaks. He opens the to ewer. Matt steps closer so he can see Richard's hangs. underwear and the socks rolled, the underwear folded and stacked. Richard arranges them neatly in the suitcase. The kitchen the livin room the clothes. Matt is struck b this man's sense of order, o iscio ine. Matt watches the absurdity of Richard sorting clothes by season. He even packs a small instamatic camera. He packs the things a man accumulates and become part of him.
MATT: ( re: the suitcases ) Okay, that's enough.
RICHARD: I need some things from the bathroom.
MATT: THE BATHROOM
THE BATHROOM: Richard steps just inside the bathroom door and stops.
MATT: Keep going.
RICHARD: Gotta pee. Matt realizes Richard means to have privacy. He pushes him into the room. Takes a step back and pulls the door so it is only slightly ajar. He keeps his foot between the jam and the door. He eyes Richard's back reflected in the mirror. He can hear him make water. He looks like he wonders about allowing this Mattes glances at: A picture on the wall outside of the bathroom: Natalie Richard and their two boys, in front of someone's house. Smiling. She looks happy.
C: looks around the room frantically - his eyes find nothing that will help his situation - he flushes the toilet - Matt swings the door fully open - Richard fills a travel kit with Richard tucks the travel kit into a bag. Matt keeps the gun on him. Richard closes the suitcase, and faces Matt. He looks at the Matt moves around behind him. Now Richard is between Matt and the lighted hall. Richard carries a canvas bag in each hand. Matt pulls another glove from his pocket. He uses it to turn off the bedside lamp. Richard now d'_lhouetted in the doorway. Let's go. Richard steps into the hall. Matt follows, carrying the small suitcase in one hand, the gun in the other. They start down the hallway. Matt turns off lights with his elbow as they go. Past the living room into the kitchen. Richard tenses, he stops at the kitchen door. Matt sets the suitcase down. He uses that hand to reach into his jacket. He pulls out a red, white, and blue piece of paper. He drops it on the counter top. Words on the paper read AMT RACK. Matt picks up the suitcase again. He steps closer to him. Presses the gun into Richard's back.
RICHARD'S BEDROOM: Richard tucks the travel kit into a bag. Matt keeps the gun on him. Richard closes the suitcase, and faces Matt. He looks at the Matt moves around behind him. Now Richard is between Matt and the lighted hall. Richard carries a canvas bag in each hand. Matt pulls another glove from his pocket. He uses it to turn off the bedside lamp. Richard now d'_lhouetted in the doorway. Let's go. Richard steps into the hall. Matt follows, carrying the small suitcase in one hand, the gun in the other. They start down the hallway. Matt turns off lights with his elbow as they go. Past the living room into the kitchen. Richard tenses, he stops at the kitchen door. Matt sets the suitcase down. He uses that hand to reach into his jacket. He pulls out a red, white, and blue piece of paper. He drops it on the counter top. Words on the paper read AMT RACK. Matt picks up the suitcase again. He steps closer to him. Presses the gun into Richard's back.
MATT: open the door. Richard's reaches down and carefully turns the knob. He slowly pulls the door open. Matt takes a step back.
MATT: Get the light. Richard reaches down and hits the switch. Click. The two men now in silhouette. Richard exits first. Matt close behind.
RIC: They'll catch me. They'll check passenger I didn't use your name.
MATT: I didn't use your name.
RIC: They'll figure that out too. You think I wouldn't have done it myself if it was that easy? He starts it up, slides into reverse. He looks back over his shoulder as they back down the driveway. Matt averts his stare. Looking down at the gun barrel but not at the profiled face beyond it.
MATT: You were alone. We've got it worked out.
RIC: .who's we? Good estion. Matt doesn't answer though. Richard shifts into drive.
RIC: There's no planes this time of night, Dr. back through town. Then north on 73.
MATT: back through town. Then north on 73.
RIC: The airport's South.
MATT: Somebody's going to keep you for a while. They'll take you to the airport - turn on the radio. Find the game.
RIC: It's after three
MATT: They run it again. Matt leans back, quietly uncorking the hammer.
MATT: No more talking. Richard tries to read Matt °s face in the mirror, but it -s now in shadows. Richard fumbles with the radio, surfing the stations. Matt is right. The game is on. Nomar Garcia arra hits a long drive to left with runners in scoring position "A cinch to collect 200 hits this season." Richard sets his eyes on the road.
MATT: ( Trying to stay ca ri ht take it easy - pull over to the shoo der. Matt & Richard sit tight waiting for the inevitable. The light gains in intensity, as the cab fills with crimson.
DISAPPE: EXT. OWLS HEAD - NIGHT the vague outline of mountains, It is almost pitch black. Onl hi d' the moon. Then, from far off, a pair of headlights move tow us, fighting through the thick night
MATT: Turn around.
RICHARD: We missed it. Turn around. back and turn in at the last road.
MATT: We missed it. Turn around. back and turn in at the last road.
RIC: There's nothing back here Dr. Fowler? I donut understand why you don-t just
MATT: It's for you're car. You don't think we'd leave it at the airport do you?
MATT: Stop here. The Brown Suburban crawls to a stop. Richard keeps the engine running. Matt presses the gun hard against his neck. He straightens in his seat and looks in the rearview mirror. Matt's eyes meet his in the glass for an instant before focusing on the hair at the end of the gun barrel.
TT: Turn it off. Richard does. The ball game disappears, and the silence is strangely a anent. He continues to hold the w eel with both hands. He ooks in the mirror.
RIC: I'll do twenty years, Dr. Fowler, I'll be fifty-four years old.
MATT: That's two years younger than I
MATT: Get the bags.
MATT: Almost there. Richard carefully gets out. Instinctively, he raises his hands about shoulder level. They move to the back of the Brown Suburban. Richard pops the hatch. He pulls out the two canvas bags. He sets them on the ground. He reaches in and pulls out the small suitcase. We hear a SCREEN DOOR slam shut. Richard looks surprised. He turns back to Matt. C'mon now. Richard reaches down and picks up the bags. He struggles to carry all three. Matt grabs the small suitcase from him.
MATT: That way. Richard lugs the bags toward the cabin. We hear HEAVY CRUNCHING FOOTSTEPS OF SOMEONE APPROACHING. Richard stops.
RIC: Mr. Grinnel?
WILLIS: I'll get them, son. RICHARD LOOKS S r •E' RELIEVED. He waits a moment, u-sure of what to do. Finally, he starts wal'-.ing up the path after Willis.
MATT: You can carry this one. Richard turns.
LO: He reaches out to take the bag from Matt. Matt keeps it at his side, and takes a step back, his gun trained on Richard.
BOOM: THE GUN KICKS IN MATT'S HAND. THE GUN'S REPORT ECHOES FOR ETERNITY. MATT STANDS ABSOLUTELY STILL. STILL HOLDS THE LITTLE SUITCASE. LOOKS DOWN AT RICHARD STROUT SQUIRMING ON HIS BELLY. KICKING ONE LEG BEHIND HIM, PUSHING HIMSELF FORWARD, TOWARD THE WOODS. MATT WATCHES DISPASSIONATELY. STEPS FORWARD, RAISES THE GUN AND FIRES ONE MORE SHOT. RICHARD STOPS MOVING. Matt stands there motionless. We hear FOOTSTEPS. Willis runs up to Matt.
WILLIS: ( BREATHLESS )
MATT: The two men look into each others eyes. Matt seems to be somewhe re else He looks back down at the body.
WILLIS: This isn't what we talked out,
MATT: He tried to run. Willis looks at the gun still in Matt's hand, the little suitcase in the other.
WILLIS: We were going to wait, and take him out in the woods. Matt raises his head. He looks at Willis flatly.
MATT: I coul °t wait.
A DEER: not 30 yards distant watchin them A Buck with a splendid rack, a deep chestsnowy white, a l of him in his prime His flag up d twitching. His eyes u Quin Then he bounds off and is gone.
MATT: Seems somewhere else.
WILLIS: ( ANGRY )
WILLIS: ( ANGRY )
O A: Matt drives the Brown Suburban over the bridge. The operator gives him a friendly nod. Waves to Willis in the Ford.
WILLIS: {SOFTLY )
{SOFTLY ): What time is it? Matt checks his watch.
MATT: Ten to six. We lost an hour. Sorry. Willis's jaw tightens.
WIILLIS: ( almost losing his temper ) Yep.high tide. Can't stop people from fish'in Matt - uck'in brides Matt looks over at Willis.
MATT: I'm sor Willis. Willis looks at Matt. He knows. Eyes back to the road.
WILLIS: ( FORCED CALM )
WILLIS: Katie's pill will be wearing off soon.
PAST THE: IMER OF ROCKLAND CIVIL W MEMORIAL, TWO SENTRYS STAND GU, HIGH SCHOOL. ROCIULAMPOLICE DEPT. 3TONNE'S SPECIALTY SHOPPE Something catches Matt's attention in the store front. The anne ins in the window They seem to be staring at h°
PAST: HIGH SCHOOL. ROCIULAMPOLICE DEPT. 3TONNE'S SPECIALTY SHOPPE Something catches Matt's attention in the store front. The anne ins in the window They seem to be staring at h°
PAST: ROCIULAMPOLICE DEPT. 3TONNE'S SPECIALTY SHOPPE Something catches Matt's attention in the store front. The anne ins in the window They seem to be staring at h°
PAST: 3TONNE'S SPECIALTY SHOPPE Something catches Matt's attention in the store front. The anne ins in the window They seem to be staring at h°
AWEEN ARCH: EXT. SIDE STREET - MATT'S NEIGHBORHOOD DAWN The Ford pulls up to the curb. Matt gets out. Willis drives away. Matt starts walking.
DINING ROOM: The light has been left on, he kills it and heads upstairs.
RUTH: ( UNSEEN )
RUTH: Are you all right? He lies down. FACES THE WINDOW, AWAY FROM HER. She is on her side, she props herself up on her elbow - watching him. He waits a longtime before speaking
MATT: There was a picture with Natalie and the boys hanging on his wall - Ruth looks at him strangely.
RUTH: ( GENTLY )
MATT: - the way she was smiling.
RUTH: I don't know - Ruth looks at the back of Matt's head.
MATT: I don't know - Ruth looks at the back of Matt's head.
RUTH: He doesn't move. He says nothing else. She continues to stare at him. Uncertainty beginning to form on her face. She looks lost. If only things cou d be as t ey were. at I thinking - you must be hungry. She waits for a response, but gets e. She gets out of bed, leaves the room and heads down stairs.
RUTH: at I thinking - you must be hungry. She waits for a response, but gets e. She gets out of bed, leaves the room and heads down stairs.
RUTH: Matt dear, do you want coffee? Be doesn't respond. Instead he looks at his finger. The bandage wet from washing up. He slides it off easily, like oversized ring. The skin has healed.
LATER NOW: Sun light creeps in through the curtains, onto Matt's face. Ruth lies sleeping on his chest. A breakfast tray at his bedside which he hasn't touched Matt is cede awake. He stares at the ceiling Reliving it His eyes full of an unspeakable sadness. The lids heavy. If only he could sleep. But he won't. Not today. There is a small crack in the ceiling. He'll have to fix that.
BLACK: - THE FAINT SOUNDS FADE UP
THE END: Writers : Robert Festinger Todd Field
