CIVIL SERVANT: Monitoring. All the usual.
MALCOLM: How did your team do at the weekend?
CIVIL SERVANT: Yeah, alright. We won.
MALCOLM: ( to himself )
MALCOLM: Here we go.
EDDIE MAIR: You've been in the job now for eighteen months, do you think you're making Ah. Yes I do. You'd expect me to say that I suppose.
SIMON: ( v/o on radio ) Ah. Yes I do. You'd expect me to say that I suppose.
JUDY: Mark, are you co-ordinating that millenium goals press release?
MARK: Well co-ordinate it better.
JUDY: Well co-ordinate it better.
MARK: Yes, can do.
JUDY: Is that the Minister? Bloody nail - has anyone got a nail file?
SIMON: Have we heard anything from Malcolm about last night's interview?
JUDY: No not yet.
SIMON: Perhaps he didn't hear it.
JUDY: Or maybe he's dead.
SIMON: ( with a degree of genuine He might be dead. He might have had that massive stroke we've all been waiting for. It's in the post.
MALCOLM: Diarrhoea? I mean, this is the minister for International Development. He should be talking about food parcels, not fucking arse-spraying mayhem.
MALCOLM: Oh yes, say it again. Very good. What is this, The Shitting Forecast?
EDDIE MAIR: You mentioned the word `war"
MALCOLM: Steady Eddie.
MALCOLM: Sam! Sam!
MALCOLM: NO YOU DO NOT THINK THAT! Sam! I'm going to have to go over to International Development, and pull Simon Foster's fucking hair.
MALCOLM: He did not say "unforseeable'. You may have heard him say it, but he did not say that, and that is a fact.
JUDY: He'll want you to row back from the `unforeseeable' thing on Question Time On Question Time, you know the funny question they always ask at the end?
SIMON: On Question Time, you know the funny question they always ask at the end?
JUDY: I think we should prep that now. I'd like to shine on the funny question, cos I'm a funny guy. With a light touch. There's this guy, he's a property tycoon. He's bought a South Sea Island. It might be something like that, you know. "If you had to spend the rest of your life on a desert island, who would it be with?"
SIMON: I think we should prep that now. I'd like to shine on the funny question, cos I'm a funny guy. With a light touch. There's this guy, he's a property tycoon. He's bought a South Sea Island. It might be something like that, you know. "If you had to spend the rest of your life on a desert island, who would it be with?"
JUDY: There's this guy, he's a property tycoon. He's bought a South Sea Island. It might be something like that, you know. "If you had to spend the rest of your life on a desert island, who would it be with?"
SIMON: Ah. Well, I can't say my wife, because I haven't got one, and I can't say my girlfriend, because I haven't got one of those either.
JUDY: And don't say Mandela, that's.
SIMON: No. Boring. And a bloke.
JUDY: Or Keira Knightley.
SIMON: Well, that's a good idea.
JUDY: Pervert. Sex. Minister.
SIMON: I don't think so.
JUDY: People don't want to know.
SUZY: Did you take the washing out of the What do you mean, no?
TOBY: What do you mean, no?
SUZY: What do you mean, no?
TOBY: No. I didn't take the washing out of the It's going to go really stale.
SUZY: It's going to go really stale.
TOBY: It'll be fine.
SUZY: It's not fine. By the time.
TOBY: It is fine. I'll wear stale pants.
SUZY: I don't want to go out with some who wears stale pants.
TOBY: Well, there we go. I could go commando, but I don't think that's acceptable in Please. So: got everything you need for your first day in International
SUZY: ( Disgusted ) Please. So: got everything you need for your first day in International
TOBY: Oh Yes. It's all here. My massive intellect. And an apple for Simon Foster.
SUZY: Simon Fluster.
TOBY: Don't say that, I'm rebranding him.
SUZY: Well he was crap on the radio last night. He sounded like a chicken with a wasp up its arse.
TOBY: Well I'm going to sort that out. After a week I'll have him sounding like a chicken without a wasp up its arse.
SUZY: Have a good day, good luck honey.
TOBY: Have a good day at the Foreign Office. Try not to annoy Russia.
SUZY: I'll give you a call later. Keep your phone on. Bye.
TOBY: Yeah, alright.
SUZY: Oh and be careful - cars!
TOBY: Are you going to keep ringing me up every two minutes, because you're starting to remind me of my mum. And that could lead to all sorts of erectile dysfunction.
SUZY: I'm just checking whether you put last night's lasagne in the fridge.
MICHAEL: ( mouthing )
MALCOLM: No. You're fine to go ahead and print that. It's lies, you'd be lying, but go ahead. He did not say unforeseeable. No he did not. Oh, just before you go when I tell your wife about you and Angela Heaney at the Blackpool conference.would email be better? Or a phone call? Or, hey I know, I'll write it on a cake, "Your hack husband betrayed you on the 4th of October, and congratulations on the new baby" in those little silver balls. ( BEAT ) Yeah, maybe best to spike it? Okay. Fuckity-bye!
TOBY: No, it's fine, it's in the fridge. I put some clingfilm over it. Why did you put clingfilm on it?
SUZY: Why did you put clingfilm on it?
TOBY: To keep it fresh.
SUZY: It's in the fridge, that'll keep it No, but it still might dry out.
TOBY: No, but it still might dry out.
MALCOLM: ( into phone ) Yeah, Malcolm Tucker. Can I speak to James Lewis at the PM Programme please?
MICHAEL: ( knowing Toby is on the other Still slightly warm. That's how I like my women as well.
SUZY: Clingfilm is carcinogenic, Toby.
TOBY: No it isn't. That's a myth. Clingfilm is perfectly safe. No, I'll hold,. what's he waiting for? A They wouldn't sell clingfilm if it gave you cancer. Clingfilm doesn't give you cancer. And Lasagne doesn't give you James! Right Simon Foster? Yeah, very funny, the Diarrhoea of a Nobody. Listen, we get an easy ride on Tom tomorrow, OK? ( getting annoyed ) No, YOU relax. Tell you what, I'll come over a lock you in a flotation tank and pump it full of sewage until you drown. GET ME FUCKING BRIAN!
MALCOLM: ( into phone ) No, I'll hold,. what's he waiting for? A They wouldn't sell clingfilm if it gave you cancer. Clingfilm doesn't give you cancer. And Lasagne doesn't give you James! Right Simon Foster? Yeah, very funny, the Diarrhoea of a Nobody. Listen, we get an easy ride on Tom tomorrow, OK? ( getting annoyed ) No, YOU relax. Tell you what, I'll come over a lock you in a flotation tank and pump it full of sewage until you drown. GET ME FUCKING BRIAN!
TOBY: They wouldn't sell clingfilm if it gave you cancer. Clingfilm doesn't give you cancer. And Lasagne doesn't give you James! Right Simon Foster? Yeah, very funny, the Diarrhoea of a Nobody. Listen, we get an easy ride on Tom tomorrow, OK? ( getting annoyed ) No, YOU relax. Tell you what, I'll come over a lock you in a flotation tank and pump it full of sewage until you drown. GET ME FUCKING BRIAN!
MALCOLM: James! Right Simon Foster? Yeah, very funny, the Diarrhoea of a Nobody. Listen, we get an easy ride on Tom tomorrow, OK? ( getting annoyed ) No, YOU relax. Tell you what, I'll come over a lock you in a flotation tank and pump it full of sewage until you drown. GET ME FUCKING BRIAN!
SIMON: Paris Hilton?
JUDY: Are you serious?
SIMON: Lily Allen.
JUDY: No. No women.
SIMON: The Olson twins?
JUDY: Hi. Right. I see.
SIMON: ( sensing something's up ) Malcolm's coming to see you.
JUDY: Malcolm's coming to see you.
SIMON: Shit. He's still alive. When's he due?
MALCOLM: Now. And don't say you weren't prepared because I rang ahead. Give us a minute, will you love?
JUDY: So you're.whatever your name is, Dan, the new advisor? Daniel.
TOBY: Right. Just most of you lot tend to be called Dan, or Danny, so it's always worth a punt. OK, hello. As you know, I'm Judy Molloy, Civil Service Director of Communications for International
JUDY: Right. Just most of you lot tend to be called Dan, or Danny, so it's always worth a punt. OK, hello. As you know, I'm Judy Molloy, Civil Service Director of Communications for International
TOBY: Is this a normal morning, or.?
JUDY: Okay, I've got a meeting in two minutes. And the minister was rubbish in last night's interview.
TOBY: It's a technical term. It means he went on the radio and everyone could hear that he was rubbish.
JUDY: It's a technical term. It means he went on the radio and everyone could hear that he was rubbish.
SIMON: Come on, Malcolm, he asked me for a personal opinion.
MALCOLM: Oh why didn't you say? I mean, he asked you. Fuck. Of course, that explains it. Yeah. Say, if he'd asked you to fucking black up, or give him your PIN number, or shot yourself, would you have done that as well.
SIMON: I would have blacked up. It was the radio and no-one would have known.
MALCOLM: Yeah. Very good.
SIMON: But war is basically unforeseeable isn't it?
MALCOLM: That is not our line, alright? Walk the fucking line. Look.
JUDY: Minister, this is Toby.
MALCOLM: Not the time love. Fuck off.
SIMON: Hey Toby. Glad you could join us. Bit of an odd morning, but 'Welcome to the madhouse!'I apologise for Malcolm.
MALCOLM: Don't apologise for me. You should apologise for yourself. Did I not just tell you to fuck off and yet you're still here?
JUDY: That's correct.
MALCOLM: ( to Toby ) Hey, foetus boy. Lesson One: If I tell you to fuck off what do you do?
TOBY: Fuck off?
MALCOLM: You'll go far.Now fuck off.
TOBY: Toby fucks off. We can see him outside, wandering around, not knowing what to do with himself.
SIMON: We were thinking, weren't we Judy, that I could row back on Question Time tonight.
MALCOLM: No, You're not going on Question Time tonight. You've been disinvited.
SIMON: Why? We've been prepping Question Time.
MALCOLM: Because they ask fucking questions on Question Time. And you're no good at questions. If it was Fumbling, Off- Message Shit Fucking Answer Time, you'd be our main guy. But it's not.
JUDY: Sorry, why wasn't I told about this?
MALCOLM: Why should I tell you about this?
JUDY: Because it's a scheduled media appearance by this department's Secretary Of State and it therefore falls within my Your purview? Where do you think you are sweetheart, in some Regency costume drama? This is a government department, not a fucking Jane Austen novel. Allow me to pop a jaunty little bonnet on your purview and ram it up the shitter with a lubricated horse cock.
MALCOLM: Your purview? Where do you think you are sweetheart, in some Regency costume drama? This is a government department, not a fucking Jane Austen novel. Allow me to pop a jaunty little bonnet on your purview and ram it up the shitter with a lubricated horse cock.
JUDY: Malcolm, your swearing doesn't impress me. My husband works for Tower Hamlets and believe me, those kids make you sound like Angela Lansbury.
MALCOLM: ( to Simon, lads' chat ) She's married? The poor bastard.
SIMON: But.okay, Judy's lubricated horse cock aside for one moment.. Are you saying that I'm now not allowed to make any media appearances?
MALCOLM: No, not until we can trust you to keep to the line.
SIMON: But I was going to keep to the line: "I don't actually think war is
MALCOLM: What is it then?
SIMON: Is it.I don't know? Foreseeable? No.
MALCOLM: No. Not foreseeable. That's fucking declaring war. Do you want to fucking declare war?
SIMON: I'm a cabinet minister. I didn't get here by screwing up every media appearance I ever had.
MALCOLM: Write this down. It's neither forseeable nor undorseeable.
SIMON: Right. So not inevitable, but
MALCOLM: ( calling back to Simon ) Okay, you need to work on this fucking ( to Judy ) That includes you, Jane Fucking Austen with the strap-on. Oh, and put the sniff out there that the next time the BBC ambushes a Minister with a war question we'll drop a bomb on them.
JUDY: I can't do that. That's political, that's not in my.
MALCOLM: Purview, Marie Antoinette? Weel listen, darling, why don't you fucking scuttle off back to fucking Cranford and play around with your tea and cake and horse cocks. Let them eat cock! ( TO TOBY ) You, Ron Weasley you do it.
MICHAEL: ( on phone ) You needn't worry about the Canadians. They're just happy to be there. ( Pause ) Yes, well, they always look surprised when they're invited.
SUZY: Listen, shall I just give Toby a quick call about the Simon Foster thing?
TOBY: Hiya. You do know this is the third time you've rung? Are you on a new tariff?
SUZY: So? How's it going? You found the bogs All a bit manic. It was never like this at Agriculture. People tend not to swear so much about wheat. Apart from farmers. They swear about everything.
TOBY: All a bit manic. It was never like this at Agriculture. People tend not to swear so much about wheat. Apart from farmers. They swear about everything.
SUZY: ( to Michael, re. the music ) Can you turn that down a bit? ( to Toby ) Look, I've got a leg up for you. I think we could get Simon into the big meeting with Karen Clark?
TOBY: Right - Karen Clark from.is that the woman who went round Britain in a coracle for leukemia?
SUZY: Karen Clark, US Assistant Secretary of Oh right. Shit. Karen Clark. Wow. Thanks.
TOBY: Oh right. Shit. Karen Clark. Wow. Thanks.
SUZY: Hang on, Michael wants to say something.
MICHAEL: Meat! Simon's only going to be meat in the room. Don't get his hopes up.
SUZY: Meat! Simon's only going to be meat in the room. Don't get his hopes up.
MICHAEL: Meat! Simon's only going to be meat in the room. Don't get his hopes up.
SUZY: Yeah, so you know Simon, between us, he's just going to be meat in the room.
TOBY: Judy, nearby, hears this.
SUZY: ( waving him away ) Yeah. The Americans don't feel they're getting a real meeting unless there's thirty of you on each side. So Simon is.you know those polystyrene peanut things they use to pack electrical goods? Sort of one of those. But you might not want to tell him that. I ought to go. I love you.
TOBY: Likewise. Affirmative on that.
JUDY: So, quick tour.
TOBY: Um, I do just need to.
JUDY: Over there.that's Mike's patch. Leave Mike to it. He knows what he's doing. Don't you Mike?
MIKE: ( as they walk on ) He's an idiot. He organised 3,000 tents and sanitation packs for Rwanda.
JUDY: ( as they walk on ) He's an idiot. He organised 3,000 tents and sanitation packs for Rwanda.
TOBY: Right.is that not.?
JUDY: They needed them in Luanda. Angola. It's been in the news. And that's the end of the tour. I've got to go.
TOBY: Look, I understand your hostility to new wood coming in..
JUDY: There's a lot of really important people you need to know about, but I haven't got
TOBY: Hey, boss.
SIMON: Toby, hi. Sorry about earlier Malcolm. He's a bit of an.alpha male, isn't he?
TOBY: Look, I've managed to get you into the big meeting at the Foreign Office this The Karen Clark meeting? Shit, really? Sure. How did you.?
SIMON: The Karen Clark meeting? Shit, really? Sure. How did you.?
TOBY: I did it through sheer bloody hard work.
SIMON: Hey Judy.
JUDY: Tobes here has got me into the big Karen Clark meeting.
SIMON: Tobes here has got me into the big Karen Clark meeting.
JUDY: Wow. Yeah, the Big Meet. How are you spelling that, by the way?
TOBY: Two `e's.
TOBY: ( off Judy's look ) Just, maybe, might be best not to get too excited. It might be that their guys muscle in and have the lion's share of the talk time.
JUDY: Yeah. It might be like that.
SIMON: I think I can work a room, okay? I'm not a room virgin.
MICHAEL: Page 17
SIMON: Page 17
CHAD: Ah, Michael? I'm Chad.
MICHAEL: We'd like a dual horse-shoe formation for the meeting set-up - an enclave for Ms Clark, an enclave for the Pentagon delegation. First names acceptable to all parties and politely we request the presence of both carbonated and non- carbonated waters.
CHAD: We'd like a dual horse-shoe formation for the meeting set-up - an enclave for Ms Clark, an enclave for the Pentagon delegation. First names acceptable to all parties and politely we request the presence of both carbonated and non- carbonated waters.
SUZY: Thanks so much.
CHAD: Thanks so much.
MICHAEL: My God. Who was that, Young Lankenstein?
JUDY: Oh he'll be running something relatively major. They're all kids in Washington. It's like Bugsy Malone, but with real
SIMON: No-one will hear me if I say anything. How's your view? Can we swap? Can I swap with you?
JUDY: I think the meeting's starting.
SIMON: Well, quickly then, swap.
KAREN: We all agree this is a very tough time, but I don't want a consensus to form around the premise that conflict is necessarily the primary option at this Are people thinking that? That's a bit
SIMON: Are people thinking that? That's a bit
KAREN: This paper, authored by one of my aides, Liza Weld. You don't mind me fore- grounding this do you Liza? Illuminates the logistical factors we face. She highlights a number of reasons why, in practical terms, we can't envision a theatre deployment for twelve Although not everyone might agree with the assumptions made in that paper.
BOB ADRIANO: Although not everyone might agree with the assumptions made in that paper.
KAREN: Really - such as what?
BOB ADRIANO: The committee feels a much quicker deployment is possible.
KAREN: Which committee?
BOB ADRIANO: ( covering ) This has been discussed in a number of committees. If I said one committee.
KAREN: You did.
ADRIANO: Then that was a slip of the tongue
KAREN: Have you accidentally alluded to some secret committee? A war committee?
MICHAEL: If I can interject here, I'm aware we're pushed for time. I'd like to move us on agenda-wise. Our next item is international relief co-ordination.
KAREN: Have you heard of this committee?
ADRIANO: What's this Liza Weld paper?
SIMON: ( to Judy and Toby ) Should I say something? She invited me, I should say something. If you don't say something in the first 10 minutes, you can end up not saying anything at all.
JUDY: I don't know whether you should say I'm saying something . I think I'm going to try saying something.
SIMON: I'm saying something . I think I'm going to try saying something.
KAREN: Look - I just think it's worth noting that Ministers in The UK Government, such as our colleague here .
SIMON: ( pleased ) Is she talking about me?
KAREN: Simon Foster .
SIMON: She's talking about me!
KAREN: Has made it clear that for them currently war is unforeseeable. Isn't that right Well, yes, I mean, that's what I said. And I stick to what I said.
SIMON: Well, yes, I mean, that's what I said. And I stick to what I said.
MICHAEL: ( cutting in ) I wonder if there aren't some area of mutual agreement we can't rattle through here and see how much time we have at the end for this discussion?
JUDY: She opens the note it reads, `Simon is acting like a massive tit. Stop him.'
SUZY: Is that all fine?
JUDY: That's all fine. Thanks for that.
SUZY: Toby whispers something in Simon's ear. Simon doesn't look pleased. Karen is still talking to the meeting. Simon shuts up. He'll have this out later.
SIMON: Come here - we need to talk What do you mean stop being a `tit'? In what way was I being a tit? Why am I even over here if I'm not meant to say You were just meat in the room, Simon.
JUDY: You were just meat in the room, Simon.
SIMON: 'Meat in the room'? Oh for fuck's sake Judy. I took an hour out to come over here and be room meat?
TOBY: But you know you're a prime cut, you're not - offal.
SIMON: Great, I'm not liver. What was I, tit
KAREN: Whichever committee they don't want me to be a member of, I want to be a member of that. It's a confused Groucho Marx.
LIZA: Okay. Right.
CHAD: Hey Liza. Your paper got a major citation. You must be psyched Karen brought it up.
LIZA: She.that was her call. I didn't know it had been that widely read.
CHAD: You could not write anything that clashes more violently with the current climate than you the one you wrote if you were trying, and it almost seems like you were I wasn't trying, believe me.
LIZA: I wasn't trying, believe me.
CHAD: You are like the woman from The Omen, you've given birth to a demon and it's going to kill you.
LIZA: You probably identify with the kid from The Omen right?
CHAD: See, you're an only child, aren't you?
LIZA: See, you're an only child, aren't you?
CHAD: You bring this up whenever you run out of arguments. I don't see how my parents' limited reproductive abilities reflects badly on me. I'm the sperm that made it.
SIMON: ( re : Karen talking What's that all about? It looks
KAREN: My teeth hurt. I think the veneers are chipped. Do they look chipped?
LIZA: Well, I think that one, that one's always been there, right? I'm not sure. Have you got any painkillers?
KAREN: Oh, don't look at my teeth.
JUDY: ( trying to earwig )
KAREN: ( looking up at the Brits, off I don't want to risk a dentist here.
TOBY: ( shouting ) Hey Liza!
LIZA: Oh . Hi . hi?
TOBY: Toby? It's Toby.
LIZA: Hi. Hi.
JUDY: ( re the typing gesture ) What are you doing? You look like you're practicing baby massage.
TOBY: She did the Kennedy scholarship at my college. I had a small thing for her.
JUDY: I can imagine.
TOBY: I'm not sure she remembered me.
JUDY: No, that is one of the side effects of
KAREN: Linton has set up a secret war committee, I just know it. I mean, Linton is an absolute lunatic, Liza. He is dangerous. The voices in his head are now singing barbershop together.
SIMON: Yeah. Jesus. I really really hope there's not a war. It's going to be a nightmare. It's bad enough having to cope with the fucking Olympics.
PRESS: Minister!/Simon!/Mr Foster!
SIMON: Fuck. Who let the dogs out? We don't need Er, you wanted a chance to row back on the war. Do you want to nail the line?
JUDY: Er, you wanted a chance to row back on the war. Do you want to nail the line?
SIMON: What? No. No. I'll freestyle it.
REPORTER 1: Is war unforeseeable Minister?
SIMON: ( grappling now ) .loads of things that are actually very likely are also unforeseeable. Y'know, For the plane in the fog the mountain is unforeseeable, but then it, is suddenly very real and inevitable.
REPORTER: Sorry, are you saying that.?
SIMON: What I'm saying is that to - walk the road of peace, sometimes you need to be ready to climb the mountain of conflict. Thank you!
SIMON: ( under his breath ) Fuck Fuck Fuck Fuck Fuck. ( to Judy ) Why didn't we nail the line?
JUDY: I did try to warn you.
SIMON: You did try to warn me but you didn't actually stop me, did you?. That's like shouting 'Train!' as I get hit by a train. You should go 'Look! Train! There's a Fucking Train!'
JUDY: It's Malcolm for me too.
SIMON: How does he do that?
MALCOLM: ( on the phone, over TV ) Simon. I don't like finding out about people I work with via the news, unless they've died. Get over here now so we can address at least one of those issues.
TOBY: The thing is. On the war. With your . Maybe we should - get it out there? That the war is a resigning issue for You can't say it's a resigning issue. Because you then have to resign.
SIMON: You can't say it's a resigning issue. Because you then have to resign.
JUDY: You are having a really great first day you know that?
MALCOLM: ( shouting ) You are supposed to be a Cabinet Minster. You are supposed to be officer class. Don't do this. Don't make waves.
SIMON: We can do without the ritual humiliation, Malcolm. You know I'm against talking up the war.
MALCOLM: You're against talking up the war? Is that why you said, "Climb the mountain of
SIMON: I'm just saying. I might be forced to the verge of making a stand.
MALCOLM: ( different tack needed ) ( at Toby and Judy ) Right, you two, The White Stripes,
SIMON: To where.?
MALCOLM: Washington. The boss wants you over there on a fact-finder. Problems we might face if it all goes boombastic in the Middle Oh. Right.
SIMON: Oh. Right.
MALCOLM: But you were saying, you are on the verge of your stand.
SIMON: Well, look - I don't know what words I used in the heat of the moment, but maybe in a sense I was on the verge. But that's the important thing - I was on the verge. Not in any way decided.
MALCOLM: Christ on a bendy-bus, Simon, stop being such a faffing fuck-arse.
SIMON: I am standing my ground on the verge.
MALCOLM: Well, when you go to America, talk to Karen Clarke at the State Department,
SIMON: I'll give it a whirl.
MALCOLM: But keep away from Linton Barwick. He's pushing the war for Caulderwood's lot. I'll deal with him. Dangerous fucker. keeps a live hand-grenade as a paperweight. True story.
SIMON: Oh right. I won't talk to him.
MALCOLM: Talk to as few people as possible. That would be best for you.
KAREN: Okay - so, priorities are: take a shower, get me on Linton's War Committee, get me a dental appointment. Not necessarily in that order. What's Linton been up to while we've been away..have we declared war on California yet?
LINTON: Ah. Karen.
KAREN: How was London? Good hotel?
LINTON: How was London? Good hotel?
KAREN: Great hotel, thank you.
LINTON: Good meetings?
KAREN: Yes. We had some good discussions. The time at Number Ten could possibly have been better spent but then.
LINTON: Good. Welcome back. I'll read your words when they come through. Thank you so much
KAREN: Is Chad coming. ?
LIZA: ( watching ) He's doing his desperate chorus girl thing, hanging around trying to catch Linton's eye. That's why he's wearing his push-up bra today.
CHAD: ( as he passes ) Assistant Secretary of State hi.
LINTON: Uh-huh. Exactly
CHAD: Uh-huh. Exactly
LINTON: Uh-huh. Exactly
CHAD: Can I.?
KAREN: So listen, Liza, I need you to find out the names of the ten dullest committees currently operating on the hill.
LIZA: Page 31
KAREN: Because Linton is not going to call it the big horrible scarey war committee.they'll have buried the war committee under the most boring name they can think of. 'Diverse Strategy Committee'- not that, I'm on that. But it'll be a committee that sounds so tedious you want to self-harm. Can you get me General Miller at the My teeth hurt like hell.
LIZA: ( to herself ) Sick of hearing about the teeth. Hi. I'm calling from Karen Clark's office about a paper written by a staffer here. We need to know if 'Post War Planning: Parameters, Implication's and Possibilities' has reached Assistant Secretary of State Linton Barwick yet? ( listens ) Yeah.by Liza Weld. ( listens, shit! ) 'Pwip Pip'? It's already been given an ( listens ) No I don't want to fast-track it. Would it possible to slow-track it? Well can we create one?
LINTON: I do not understand why anyone would choose to work in a glass office. In my opinion glass offices are for perverts.
BOB ADRIANO: I could request the glass be frosted?
LINTON: ( as if Bob Adriano brought it Frosting is for cakes, Bob. Now. What happened in London?
BOB ADRIANO: Generally positive. Two glitches. Karen flagged a report by one of her staffers - Liza. She's obviously trying to use it as some kind of roadblock. It's called Pwip Pip what?
LINTON: Pip what?
BOB ADRIANO: Pwip Pip.
LINTON: What is that a report on - birdcalls? What does that stand for?
BOB ADRIANO: I don't recall. It's factish. Intel - case for and against intervention.
LINTON: We've got all the facts we need on this. In the land of truth, my friend, the man with one fact is king. You said there was another thing?
BOB ADRIANO: In the meeting with the Foreign Office the Committee was accidentally briefly alluded to.
LINTON: ( putting his hand over his Which committee?
BOB ADRIANO: ( doing the same ) The war committee.
LINTON: Karen must not find out about that. She is an excitable yapping she-dog. Okay get the minutes of the meeting, we need to correct the record.
BOB ADRIANO: We can do that?
LINTON: Yes we can. They're an aide memoir for us. So they should not be a reductive record of what happened to be said, but a more full record of what was intended to be said. I think that's the more accurate version, right? I don't like this section. Cut that. I don't think this is really what France are saying. Let's change that. And these. And let's reverse this.
BOB ADRIANO: That's something Karen said.
LINTON: It's not right. Change it.
BOB ADRIANO: Yes sir.
LINTON: And I like this.
BOB ADRIANO: Thank you.
LINTON: Let's say everyone agreed with this.
BOB ADRIANO: 33 INT. SIMON'S OFFICE/BOX ROOM - DAY 33
SIMON: What's she so fucking happy about? Is she laughing at me? Why's she got control of the blinds? I'm a government minister. I should have
TOBY: ( joking ) You want me to order some blinds? Or I could get some heavy curtains with swags and a pelmet.
SIMON: Yes. I do.
TOBY: Oh. Okay .
SIMON: Can we go somewhere else?
TOBY: I could work with that, definitely. Plus she can be a bit. you know? "Everything's a bit shit isn't it?"
SIMON: "So you're the President? And I'm supposed to be impressed by that?
TOBY: Yeah. "My husband works in Tower "That's much harder than being President". Okay. It's settled. Fuck it. She's staying behind. Go and tell her.
SIMON: "That's much harder than being President". Okay. It's settled. Fuck it. She's staying behind. Go and tell her.
KAREN: Which brings us on to Any Other Business.
LINTON: I believe I've flagged everything I needed to discuss. As I usually do.
KAREN: ( putting her hand over her Or everything you're prepared to discuss.
LINTON: What is that, Karen
KAREN: I understand you've started up a new committee, what's it called?
LINTON: What makes you think that?
KAREN: It was mentioned in our London meeting.
LINTON: You must have misheard.
KAREN: I misheard the word committee?
LINTON: Maybe it was another word. Like Khomeini.
KAREN: You're sitting on a new Khomeini?
LINTON: Possibly. There are a lot of words, Karen. Kansas City. Kitty.
BOB ARIANO: Itty is not a word, Bob.
LINTON: Itty is not a word, Bob.
CHAD: Thank you, James
LINTON: Thank you, James
CHAD: Ok. Why don't you just recap for me all the committees that you're currently sitting on?
KAREN: Ok. Why don't you just recap for me all the committees that you're currently sitting on?
LINTON: I'm Sorry, Karen, you appear to be bleeding from your mouth.
KAREN: Oh don't try to change the subject Oh no. Holy Mother of..
LIZA: ( Looking at Karen ) Oh no. Holy Mother of..
LINTON: I don't mean to be rude Karen but that is a tad. repulsive. I can't concentrate on what you're saying. You have blood coming out of your teeth and that's not
KAREN: Okay, Liza come with me.
CHAD: ( aside, to Liza ) Go, Buffy - you belong to the vampire queen now.
LINTON: I don't like to see a woman bleeding from the mouth. It makes me think of Country and Western music. Which I really can't Yes! Ha ha! Exactly.
CHAD: ( what? ) Yes! Ha ha! Exactly.
LINTON: Actually while we're on Any Other Business I do have a few points I'd like to resolve.
KAREN: Where are at you at with the committees?
LIZA: I got it down to two. The Aims and Policy Alignment Committee. Here - put some down your front - you don't want it to go down your. And the Future Planning Well, it's not the first one. I set that one up. Does that really sound dull to you? I thought that was a good name.
KAREN: Well, it's not the first one. I set that one up. Does that really sound dull to you? I thought that was a good name.
LIZA: Right, no, it is a good name.
KAREN: Okay, find out if it is definitely the Future Planning Committee.
LIZA: Okay. Okay. Right, listen, I might go and do that. You're not going to shout at me if I go and do that are you?
KAREN: I'm not a fucking monster Liza, okay? Will you stop implying I'm some kind of
LIZA: Bob Adriano stops and turns.
BOB ADRIANO: Liza sprints and catches up with him.
LIZA: So listen, Bob, there's something I really want to tell you. We're having a hunk of the month competition, and I just didn't want you to be feel.objectified in any way..and
BOB ADRIANO: ( hopes it might be a come- Oh really?
LIZA: Karen knows about the Future Planning
BOB ADRIANO: I have no idea what you're talking about.
TOBY: This is cool.
SIMON: Don't be callow Toby. We're on official This is a little bit fucking cool.
SIMON: There will be a car won't there?
TOBY: Oh God yeah, of course.
SIMON: Did you book a car?
TOBY: Me? No. I mean, Judy will have got someone to do it.
JUDY: What car situation?
TOBY: The airport car?
JUDY: That's not my job Toby. That's Robbie's job to book it, your job to check it and confirm it. Alright? Good night.
TOBY: ( to Simon ) Yeah. She's really embarrassed. Sounds like a snarl up her end. I'll see what we can do?
SIMON: `Simon Forester?'
TOBY: ( to the taxi guy ) Hi we're the Simon Foster party?
SIMON: ( re : the limo ) I almost feel like there should be hookers. Do you know what I mean? Really, here, we should have hookers.
TOBY: ( thumbs up, on his mobile ) Hey Gav, I'm in a fucking motorcade!
DRIVER: You want girls?
SIMON: ( terrified of things getting What? Oh no. God no. No no no no no. I was just - I was just joking. I don't want hookers. I hate hookers. I mean not in an aggressive way. I'm just not ( uncomfy beat, then ) But thanks. Thanks very much.
TOBY: It's like a hangar for businessmen.
SIMON: Toby, have you..?
TOBY: ( seaching his pockets ) I haven't been to an ATM yet.I've only got English..
GENERAL MILLER: Hey Karen. You look beautiful.
KAREN: I bet you say that to all the girls.
GENERAL MILLER: Yeah I do. And some of the guys.
KAREN: That's why you shouldn't run for Senate. Too many skeletons in your enormous Yeah, don't believe the hype. I'm just thinking about doing . something. I'm more than just a soldier, Karen.
GENERAL MILLER: Yeah, don't believe the hype. I'm just thinking about doing . something. I'm more than just a soldier, Karen.
KAREN: That's right, you're passionate about education and housing and what's the other thing?
GENERAL MILLER: Page 42
KAREN: That's right.
GENERAL MILLER: And bestiality.
KAREN: I'd forgotten about that. Are you still allergic to that dog?
GENERAL MILLER: Yes, yes. I wake up and my eyes are closed and my head is swollen and I look like a giant ball sack.
KAREN: Oh my god, they do have memdication for that...but a beautiful ball sack, though. And how's the pentagon?
GENERAL MILLER: It's kicked up a level. Talking invasion real soon.
KAREN: Is there somewhere we can talk?
GENERAL MILLER: I don't know, I don't live in this house.
KAREN: What if someone comes in now?
GENERAL MILLER: I can't think of an excuse that would work can you?
KAREN: No. Just be careful. Don't mess stuff up.
GENERAL MILLER: Okay so that's total minimum European Theatre requirement.
KAREN: Er - you've lost me.
GENERAL MILLER: Not anymore it isn't. Okay so this is total current deployment. Europe, Asia. And the contingency already deployed. So the current number of combat troops available for an invasion according to these figures would be .
COMPUTER VOICE: GENERAL MILLER
KAREN: GENERAL MILLER
GENERAL MILLER: No, twelve. Twelve soldiers. Twelve.
KAREN: You're shitting me.
GENERAL MILLER: Of course I'm shitting you, but 12 thousand isn't enough. Twelve thousand's about how many are going to die. And you really need a few guys alive at the end of a war or it looks like you've lost.
KAREN: Uh-huh. Tomorrow I've got to meet these Brits. Simon Foster. He's the guy that said war was unforseeable, and I think he could very useful on the committee because he could internationalise the
GENERAL MILLER: You're going to use him as a little meat
SIMON: Tobes. Hi. So! What's the plan? What swanky reception are we going to?
TOBY: ( panic in his eyes ) What's the plan? For tonight?
SIMON: Well that's what I'm asking you Toby, my chief aide, my political advisor.
TOBY: I don't know, I thought tonight we'd be Well I am tired but I'm also a career politician Toby, in the political powerhouse of the world for forty-eight hours. So I thought it might be nice to, you know, go out rather than sit in my room trying to spank one out watching a shark documentary, because I'm scared if I watch a porno it'll end up in the Register of Members Interests. So what have you got?
SIMON: ( approaching breaking point Well I am tired but I'm also a career politician Toby, in the political powerhouse of the world for forty-eight hours. So I thought it might be nice to, you know, go out rather than sit in my room trying to spank one out watching a shark documentary, because I'm scared if I watch a porno it'll end up in the Register of Members Interests. So what have you got?
TOBY: Okay . What have I got?
SIMON: Don't bullshit me Toby.
TOBY: Okay - so far, we have . one flyer under the door for happy hour in the bar - which might be interesting? And I have the number of a guy I was with at Uni who I believe now works for CNN out here.
SIMON: Page 45
TOBY: 48 INT. GEORGETOWN PARTY. EVE. 48
KAREN: Liza, where are you?
LIZA: Waving at you.
KAREN: Make yourself more visible.
LIZA: I'm practically on top of you.
KAREN: You can stop talking on your phone now. Look, I have to leave. Phone Simon Foster's guy. Tell them to come to the war committee. I'll give them some face time around ten o'clock. It'll be coffee and Danish.tea..they're going to want tea. Tea and sympathy. Tea and a handjob, Hey Toby! It's Liza Weld. Do you remember? What you guys doing tonight?
LIZA: 49 EXT. GEORGETOWN STREET - EVENING. 49
LIZA: ( on phone, deep breath ) Hey Toby! It's Liza Weld. Do you remember? What you guys doing tonight?
TV NARRATOR: There is still a great deal that is unknown about great white shark mating Well it is unbelievably hectic.
TOBY: Well it is unbelievably hectic.
SIMON: You can definitely spot the female ones can't you?!
TOBY: Attending the war committee. That's big. I mean, I have been on a committee before. "Challenges for the cheese market" - that was a big one. but.yes, sure I'd love a drink. Forty minutes? Great. Bye bye bye-bye-bye-bye-bye bye.
SIMON: Come in..I just wasn't expecting you to be here. Physically here. Obviously, you're always in my heart.
MALCOLM: I'm here, I'm there, I'm fucking everywhere. I am the egg-man.
SIMON: Have you come to insult me in a different time zone?
TOBY: No, off out now for a drink with her.yeah, yeah, ha-di-ha, but nothing's going to happen there. Little Toby's staying in his hammock tonight.
TOBY: Simon, I've managed to get us on the.
MALCOLM: ( heart attack ) Fuck! Malcolm! Jesus.
TOBY: ( heart attack ) Fuck! Malcolm! Jesus.
MALCOLM: You're meant to shit yourself in there. Not out here.
TOBY: ( to Simon ) I've got us on to Linton's Future Planning Committee in the morning.
SIMON: Okay. What's that?
TOBY: It's the war committee.
MALCOLM: What? The actual..war committee?
TOBY: Yeah, Liza says that.
MALCOLM: Who's going to be there?
TOBY: Karen Clark, Liza, me and Simon. Simon and me.
MALCOLM: Who else is going Jimmy Osmond? Gwyneth Paltrow? You've been invited to a diversion. The real committee, the real thing, that's happening at The White
TOBY: Yeah well, I'll text you the details because I'm going to go out.for A quick drink with some State Department bods.
MALCOLM: Don't mention this to the press, ok? Don't mention it to anyone. Because if the press get a whiff there's a war committee, even a cardboard one, every fucker in this town is going to turn up and try and get on it. So no matter what gay bar you end up, keep it schtumm.
SIMON: I was watching that.
MALCOLM: I have to have a word with you. You might want to slip into your negligee.
LIZA: ( re : the mosh pit ) You see those guys? The mosh pit?
TOBY: Yes, I don't think I've ever seen a more civilised 'mosh pit' it's more of a mosh caucus actually.
LIZA: House staffers, Senators' interns, most of them are half-man half-PDF file. Tonight they rage hard. Tomorrow they go back to the hill and argue noise reduction legislation.
TOBY: ( beat, looks at her. ) You're worried.
LIZA: ( she's been mulling on It's Pwip Pip.
TOBY: I'm sorry? Pip Pip? Is this. a person or a cell phone tarrif or..
LIZA: It's my paper. On the war. Pros and Cons of the war. But I came up with too many cons. The pro-war guys have started calling me `Connie'. So, yes I'm fucking worried. My career's on the line.
TOBY: Yeah- I noticed you're worried, cos I saw you looking worried. I'm perceptive like that. But. Don't worry.
LIZA: Okay, this place blows. I'm going. What are you doing?
TOBY: Well I'm incredibly tired. It feels like my brain's eight hours behind but my liver's 12 hours ahead.
LIZA: You don't want to come back to my place for a quick catch up?
TOBY: However, due to technological developments I no longer need sleep, but am physically rejuvenated by alcohol!
TOBY: Could I just say, you know, that what happens in Washington stays in Yeah I live in Washington. So that doesn't really work for me.
LIZA: Yeah I live in Washington. So that doesn't really work for me.
MALCOLM: We are under enormous pressure Simon. Karen will want you to say, `war is unforeseeable'. Linton will want you to talk up `climbing the mountain of conflict'. You say nothing, okay? You can't swing both ways, you're not David fucking Bowie.
SIMON: Right. Can I go to bed now?
MALCOLM: No, we're going to run that through.
SIMON: Am I being tortured?
TOBY: Hello I need a number for a taxi in Washington DC. Straight through please.
LIZA: Marcel's is good.
SIMON: You should go to La Taverna, the Greek place. It's fantastic.
KAREN: You should go to La Taverna, the Greek place. It's fantastic.
LIZA: They set fire to the cheese. It's a lot of fun.
SIMON: It sounds a lot of fun.
KAREN: There's the aerospace museum, the National Gallery.
SIMON: Do they set fire to the paintings?
TOBY: Hi I'm sorry I'm so late.
KAREN: ( re Toby ) And this is your guy?
SIMON: Yes. He's, you know, among my guys.
KAREN: ( turning to Toby ) I'm Karen. And I believe you already know ( she can't know? ) Yes. From college, in England.
TOBY: ( she can't know? ) Yes. From college, in England.
KAREN: Pulled an all-nighter?
TOBY: Yes, I, uh, got led astray.
KAREN: Oh who by?
TOBY: Uh, well I ran into - people. There's some people from - the MoD over and .
KAREN: Not Penny Grayling?
TOBY: Er - no, another - gang?
KAREN: Right. Wow. I didn't know you had so many delegations in town.
TOBY: ( weakly ) The British are coming!
KAREN: Well, I need to just check out a couple of things . this seems like a good point to break things up.
SIMON: Er - no problem.
LIZA: It's been great.
SIMON: I really appreciate this.
KAREN: I really appreciate this.
TOBY: 62 INT. STATE DEPARTMENT - DAY 62
TOBY: Was that.?
SIMON: Toby I don't want to read you the riot act here but I am going to have to read some extracts from the riot act. Like Section 1 paragraph 1 clause 1. Don't leave your boss twisting in the wind and then burst in late smelling like a pissed seaside donkey. `The British are coming'?
TOBY: ( feels he's taken enough now ) So I turned up late to the meeting Simon. I'm sorry. But it's not like I threw up in there.
SIMON: No you're right. I should be thanking you for not throwing up. Well done. You're a star. You didn't wet yourself, you're in the right city, you didn't say anything overtly racist, you didn't pull your dick out and start plucking it and shouting 'willy banjo'. No I'm being unfair, you got so much right. Without actually being there for the beginning of one of the biggest meetings of my career. You're a
TOBY: That was just - the first bit was it? We're going back in do you .think?
SIMON: We'd barely said hello. I've had muggings that have lasted longer than that. We really only spoke about flammable cheese.
LIZA: ( looking at a list on her Are these all requests to get on the committee? What's going on? Did someone post an invite on Facebook? I'm drowning in Senators. It's Senator soup here.
TOBY: Hi Liza.
LIZA: Hey Toby.
TOBY: ( re last night ) You feeling okay?
LIZA: Yes, I'm feeling fine. Why were you late?
TOBY: Because.you know.you didn't wake me
LIZA: You looked so sweet. I thought you knew what you were doing.
TOBY: I was asleep, of course I didn't. That's how people walk out of windows.
STAFFER: ( ( hand over phone, calls Hey Liza, I've got another call about the Committee from Senator Crudden's office, he wants in too.
LIZA: What is going on here? Fuck. Why's this my problem? Toby you sure you didn't do bad? You didn't mention the committee to anyone else?
TOBY: Nada. Nada.. Bad-da. Nada-bada bing-bong I have no idea what I'm saying anymore I think I really am still quite drunk.
CHAD: Everyone is so hot for your paper. I'm running off another ten copies. It's spreading like a virus, Liza. You're in hot water. You're lobsterising.
LIZA: I don't feel that.
CHAD: It's by degrees. Wafting. Bisque. I smell lobster. Can you smell lobster,
TOBY: I need to.
LIZA: Toby goes back to Simon
MALCOLM: Yeah yeah. Hunky dory. Can I get a
MALCOLM: ( realising ) Your assistant?
MALCOLM: I'm sorry son, am I - is this it? No offence, but shouldn't you be at school with your head down a toilet?
MALCOLM: Don't get sarcastic with me son. We burnt this tight-arsed city to the ground in 1814 and I'm all for doing it again. Starting with you, you frat fuck. You get sarcastic with me again and I will stuff so much cotton wool dowm your fucking throat it'll come out of your arse like the wee tail on a playboy bunny. Okay? I thought.I was led to believe I was attending the war Yes, Assistant Secretary of State Linton Barwick wanted me to brief you on the work of the Future Planning Committee.
MALCOLM: I don't want the bullshit son, I want the bull. No one sidelines me. I'm away.
MALCOLM: ( OVV ) Where is the fucking war committee Simon's going to the war committee I thought you knew?
JUDY: Simon's going to the war committee I thought you knew?
MALCOLM: ( OVV ) I thought I was going to the war committee? Tell me where the fuck it's
JUDY: It's on the 7th floor in room 712. Oh Malcolm, do you like how I'm telling you what's going on where you are?
MALCOLM: ( OVV ) Well let me tell you what's going on where you are sweet heart, a certain vinegar faced maniplulative cowbag is about to find that she's out of a fucking
SIMON: Here she comes - shit - look like we're meeting, look like we're having a . and if you look . at the line they take in Newsweek - that's very much . another narrative.
TOBY: ( as she passes, re magazine ) . and if you look . at the line they take in Newsweek - that's very much . another narrative.
KAREN: See you at the committee.
SIMON: ( like he's busy ) Yeah, yeah sure, see you in a mo. Just finishing off some stuff. ( to Toby loud ) Okay, we're all done there. Let's roll.
TOBY: ( quiet ) I don't think you can say that anymore here. They don't like that.
SIMON: Shut up. Follow them. Don't lose them. Lets rock.
KAREN: Are you joining me or shall I see you See you there. I don't need to . do any of the things you need to go in there to do, so I'll just see you there.
SIMON: Are you joining me or shall I see you See you there. I don't need to . do any of the things you need to go in there to do, so I'll just see you there.
KAREN: Are you joining me or shall I see you See you there. I don't need to . do any of the things you need to go in there to do, so I'll just see you there.
SIMON: See you there. I don't need to . do any of the things you need to go in there to do, so I'll just see you there.
LINTON: ( For Miller's benefit ) We seem to be overrun with insurgents here, Bob.
GENERAL MILLER: Hi, I'm in seat 204, row W. Will I be able to see the big screen from there? Oh, and can I get one of those big pointy foam hands with `Go, Monster Trucks!' written on it?
LINTON: The general is on rare form, very rare
TOBY: There he is. General George Miller.
SIMON: ( And.? ) Right, yep. There he is.
TOBY: That's the second time in 24 hours I've had a partially obscured view of him.
LINTON: Okay, due to the fact that seemingly everyone in the world who owns a suit has turned up for this meeting, we'll be relocating to a bigger room. Room 720. So, if you will be so kind.
GENERAL MILLER: Just so you know Karen and I did not appreciate having to sneak around like Mulder and Scully trying to find out about this committee.
LINTON: Well, you're both here now. John and You and I need to talk, mano-a-mano, cocks on the block, about how things are operating around here at the moment.
GENERAL MILLER: You and I need to talk, mano-a-mano, cocks on the block, about how things are operating around here at the moment.
LINTON: Sure. How about 12:30 tomorrow, my
GENERAL MILLER: General Miller takes his seat. Linton turns on Adriano.
LINTON: What the hell happened?
ADRIANO: I have no idea how they all heard sir. There must have been a leak.
GENERAL MILLER: Look at Adriano. Poor fuck. He looks like he's with his Daddy: "Sorry, Bob, you're adopted. From a couple with hereditary heart defects."
KAREN: "And your mother only ever kept your baby clothes for the purposes of voodoo."
SIMON: I'm room meat again. This is a massive abattoir of room meat. Stay outside Tobes, I need a guy on the outside. Make friends with Chad, that boy from The Shining. He knows stuff. Pump him.
TOBY: Oh no. I want to stay in here with Miller. Don't make me pump Chad.
SIMON: I'm making you pump Chad. Go on.
TOBY: No it won't. It'll be difficult difficult lemon difficult.
LINTON: So, welcome to this, somewhat engorged session of the Future Planning Committee. You can all see an agenda?
KAREN: Assistant Secretary here on point 6, it feels like there's an assumption that we'll be invading. Should we talk about the practical? I mean this is the war committee after all?
LINTON: It's the Future Planning Committee.
KAREN: Unofficially it's known as the war Well, unofficially we can call anything whatever we like. Unofficially, this is a shoe. But it's not a shoe, Karen, it's a glass of water, and this is the Future Planning
LINTON: Well, unofficially we can call anything whatever we like. Unofficially, this is a shoe. But it's not a shoe, Karen, it's a glass of water, and this is the Future Planning
MALCOLM: 73 INT. BIG COMMITTEE ROOM. DAY. 73
KAREN: But what I'm asking is has a decision been reached in principle to advocate That's way off agenda Karen. Although it would seem a general consensus may be What makes you say that?
LINTON: That's way off agenda Karen. Although it would seem a general consensus may be What makes you say that?
KAREN: What makes you say that?
LINTON: Well I noted with interest the recent comments of our colleague Simon Foster in that regard.
KAREN: Perhaps Mr. Foster would have something to say about that?
SIMON: ( politely ) I'm just.watching with interest. IN Britain we have a saying for complicated situations such as this, which is that ( he can't believe he's going `Difficult, difficult, lemon, difficult.'
LINTON: As I say it seems a consensus is forming.
KAREN: ( furious ) That's just ridiculous. You have no basis for saying that.
LINTON: Karen, please, calm down. We don't want you to have another hemorrhage. Item One.
TOBY: So - do you want to go out and get some Are you kidding? Lunchtime is work time.
CHAD: Are you kidding? Lunchtime is work time.
TOBY: Yes, what an incredibly depressing motto. You see you're playing into the hands of the French saying that.
CHAD: Yeah work hours are too valuable - for networking. You gotta get in at like 6 work till 8.30 Then start making those connections baby. Emails and admin at lunch. See if you can play some strategic racquetball through the pm. Then in the six till midnight slot chow down on some serious policy Right. And what - friends, family, novels, sexual inter-course you're going to save those for your thirties and Are you fucking me about?
TOBY: Right. And what - friends, family, novels, sexual inter-course you're going to save those for your thirties and Are you fucking me about?
MALCOLM: Are you fucking me about?
LINTON: Mr Tucker, isn't it? Hello again.
MALCOLM: You might pull this kind of stunt on some young wank fresh up from Oklahoma, happy to be getting his hookers paid for by tobacco lobbyists, but not me.
LINTON: What seems to be the problem?
MALCOLM: I've just had a briefing from a 9-year- old finalist in Americas got talent. I think he may have been a ventriloquist. Or possibly the fucking dummie.
LINTON: AJ? He is one of my top guys. Stanton College Prep, Harvard.he's smart and he's great at his job.
MALCOLM: His fucking briefing notes were written in Alphabetti Spaghetti. When I left I nearly tripped over his umbilical cord.
LINTON: I'm sorry if it troubles you that our people achieve excellence at a young age.
MALCOLM: Yeah, apparently your fucking master race of gifted toddlers can't quit get the job done in between breast feeds and playing with their power rangers. So yeah, we're getting some actual grown-ups to bail you
LINTON: ( to Simon ) Minister, thank you so much for your support and your recent "Climb the mountain of conflict" comment - great. We're going to run with that, it has great repeatability.
SIMON: Thanks very much, but.it's all a bit complex really, in terms of my.
LINTON: It's early days, my friend. All roads lead to Munich.
MALCOLM: What the fuck does that mean? `All roads lead to Munich'?
SIMON: Well it just means.I guess, I don't know what it means.
MALCOLM: `All roads lead to Munich'?
SIMON: It's beautiful.
TOBY: If you pull it out, America deflates.
MALCOLM: Don't mock that! The closest you'll come to getting one of those is buying a Mark Hadley's dad's died.
SIMON: Oh no. Should we send Mark a card?
MALCOLM: Nah, I'll send him a ouija board so they can keep in touch.
SIMON: So what are we getting back to? Apart from a nice cup of tea and some knife Constituency surgery in Northampton.
TOBY: Constituency surgery in Northampton.
SIMON: Great, meeting my constituents. It's like being Simon Cowell, but without the ability to say, `Fuck off, you're
ROZ: ( to Simon ) Sorry, could you.? You just need to kick the bottom quite hard.
SIMON: ( Roz has gone ahead, this is Look at them. They all have that smell..like a charity shop, you know? ( to constituents )
ROZ: Right, here you go, you're pretty booked up - there's a list on the desk. I'm just going to have a look at the guttering.
SIMON: I'm just back from America, so it was pretty tough to make it up here - but you know. That's me.
ROZ: Of course. Right. How was the
SIMON: Good actually.
TOBY: And what was the White House like?
SIMON: Blown up by spaceships.
MILLER: ( by way of explanation ) Um, hold on General .
BOB ADRIANO: Um, hold on General .
MILLER: What the fuck?
BOB ADRIANO: Yeah, Secretary Linton Barwick wanted me to let you know his last - meeting looks like it's over-running. He sends
MILLER: He stood me up? They're better be a fucking good reason. Like he's dead. That is just plain fucking rude. I mean, how would he like it if I just did a big hairy shit on his desk?
BOB ADRIANO: You're very w-welcome to wait, we have newspapers and periodicals?
MILLER: Yeah well excuse me if at this time of national crisis I don't sit with a thumb up my ass flipping through Time magazine eating pop tarts? Tell him to call me. But he might not get through cos I'm a fucking busy man.
KAREN: Hey, what is it?
MILLER: Yeah - can I hang around in here for a Er. Sure. Why?
KAREN: Er. Sure. Why?
MILLER: Do I need a fucking reason? Linton's playing me like a fucking turkey drumstick on a big bass drum.
KAREN: Look, I was going to order food, do you want to eat.
MILLER: Yeah. Order us some cute mammals. Alive. A lamb or a piglet so I can snap it's fucking neck.
MRS MCDAIRMID: My point is - if the septic tank - if we didn't know it was there in the first place how can we be responsible for it Yes. No. I understand.
SIMON: Yes. No. I understand.
MRS MCDAIRMID: It's under the communal drive. Why should we get it pumped?
ROZ: ( looking through the Well it's not a council sceptic tank so they're not legally obliged to pump it.
MRS MCDAIRMID: Look, according to the paperwork there's four metric tons of of shit under there. That's not all me, is it? I'm not a flipping elephant am I?
SIMON: No, of course not. Nor should you be treated like one. Okay, Mrs McDairmid. Leave it with me. I'm sure there must be a way through this. Alright?
ROZ: Er, Colin Lowe.
SIMON: Jesus. Still on about bendy buses? No. Tell him no. What else?
ROZ: Pauline Michaelson's son about the constituency office wall.
PAUL MICHAELSON: ( as he enters ) Hi, thanks for seeing me Mr. Foster.
SIMON: Hi Paul, call me Simon. You've met Roz.
PAUL MICHAELSON: I know I have.
SIMON: PAUL MICHAELSON
PAUL MICHAELSON: Okay, Simon, I'll try to keep it brief because I can see you're a busy man. There's a bloke out there wants to make it illegal to talk in a foreign language in shops.
SIMON: Yes, well, this place can become a magnet for the mentally dispossessed. And for sensible people like yourself, Paul.
PAUL MICHAELSON: Why don't you explain your issue, Mr I.sorry, is this a joke? How many times? For the fourth f.ing The side wall. Of this property. Your wall. Is falling over. On to my mum's garden. She called you up - but she got fobbed off by your people. Because she's not Lord Snooty in his posh car. Because she's not Madonna on a horse.
ROZ: Why don't you explain your issue, Mr I.sorry, is this a joke? How many times? For the fourth f.ing The side wall. Of this property. Your wall. Is falling over. On to my mum's garden. She called you up - but she got fobbed off by your people. Because she's not Lord Snooty in his posh car. Because she's not Madonna on a horse.
PAUL MICHAELSON: I.sorry, is this a joke? How many times? For the fourth f.ing The side wall. Of this property. Your wall. Is falling over. On to my mum's garden. She called you up - but she got fobbed off by your people. Because she's not Lord Snooty in his posh car. Because she's not Madonna on a horse.
SIMON: That.I agree, it's unacceptable.
PAUL MICHAELSON: Do you know what this is? That's your constituency office hold music. I don't want it in my head, do I?
SIMON: ( checks notes ) We did arrange to get a quote from a builder, but.
ROZ: Patch from London. They say it's urgent. Karen Clark? Is she the coracle woman?
SIMON: Right. Paul, I really need to take this, but I haven't forgotten about you, okay?
PAUL MICHAELSON: No, well I'm not going anywhere, Simon. You won't be able to forget me because I'll be sitting here staring at you.
SIMON: Toby, can I hand Paul over to you?
PAUL MICHAELSON: "Can I fob Paul off with you?"
TOBY: So, Paul, where are we up to? I was out getting coffee. Sorry.
GENERAL MILLER: ( flicking through Liza's See, this is the problem with civilians wanting to go to war. When you've been there you don't want to go back unless you absolutely have to. It's like France.
KAREN: ( re the paper in it's red You finally read Liza's paper?
GENERAL MILLER: Course, I read it. I'm a voracious reader. I'm the fucking Gore Vidal of the You don't want that?
KAREN: Yes I want that. I want that, that, that, that and that. Those I don't care about. And these let's pack up and drop on North Korea.
GENERAL MILLER: ( beat, reads ) Someone should leak this.
KAREN: Someone maybe shaped a little bit like Me? Are you kidding?
GENERAL MILLER: Me? Are you kidding?
KAREN: You have more gravitas.
GENERAL MILLER: Exactly. I'm too senior. I can't leak. Leaking is for people like your Liza and the Boy called It out there. It's insane. Not only is the case against war incredibly strong, the case for is caveated to hell. "Most analysts believe the state is looking to expand aggressively beyond its borders." Then here in the caveats, the only source is `Ice Man' - a possible alcoholic - who's probably called that cos he gets through ten bags / icebergs a day in his fucking vodka tonics. INR say we can't trust him. That's us disputing our own findings. Has Linton read this?
KAREN: I'm not sure he reads. You're a General. Have him killed.
GENERAL MILLER: You see this is why we never got together. That and the hobo teeth.
KAREN: This is a private call right unrecorded, secure line etc etc?
SIMON: Well, yeah. I mean, your lot are probably getting it somehow, but our lot shouldn't
PAUL MICHAELSON: I'm still here, Simon.
KAREN: What's going on Simon?
SIMON: Departmental business. About a wall.
KAREN: Uh-huh. What can I do for you?
SIMON: Uh-huh. What can I do for you?
KAREN: Where were you in the committee? I called for back-up, you sat there like a dumb sack of shit. Maybe worse, cos at a molecular level a bag of shit is probably fizzing with energy.
SIMON: Well - okay. Yes. Um. Well, I have to say Karen, I have a clear strategy here. I'm playing the long game.
KAREN: There is no long game. They've bounced us into a short game. You looked like a.what do you call it in England? A We don't call it that, no.
SIMON: We don't call it that, no.
TOBY: Paul, look, mate.
PAUL MICHAELSON: Sorry. But I'm on your side. I have to look after my Mum too. You do, or they get shafted don't they? So.
TOBY: Sorry. But I'm on your side. I have to look after my Mum too. You do, or they get shafted don't they? So.
PAUL MICHAELSON: I'm going to pursue this with, what do they call it? Extreme prejudice, to the very end. I can be enormously persistent. Ask my ex-girlfriend.
ROZ: Okay, well, I'll take your details.
SIMON: That guy's a bit full-beam.
TOBY: Yeah, full-beam. Headlights. I kept thinking, is he going to nut me. He appears not to be nutting me, but he might well nut me.
SIMON: Yeah, full-beam. Headlights. I kept thinking, is he going to nut me. He appears not to be nutting me, but he might well nut me.
TOBY: So what did Karen Clark want?
SIMON: Do you think I came over as weak on the committee over there?
TOBY: Well, uh, no, of course not. I suppose -
KAREN: Also - the war committee got leaked, and that leak came from your department.
SIMON: I find that difficult to believe.
KAREN: I want action to be taken. I want a head. On a plate. To go.
SIMON: ( to the phone ) You don't work here. You're not my boss. Fuck off. You can't make me sack people.
SIMON: We need to talk in my office.
JUDY: About what?
SIMON: ( patronising ) I think you know.
JUDY: ( taking call ) Sorry, this is the wrong extension. I'll put you through now.
SIMON: ( walking backwards into his Come, come into my office.
JUDY: Why? Why do you need to see me?
TOBY: ( to Judy ) What's this?
JUDY: It's the mad man about the wall.
TOBY: The war?
JUDY: The wall.
SIMON: ( following her out, Can you come into my office so I can tell you off?
TOBY: Hello. Can I help you?
TOBY: What can I do for you Paul?
PAUL MICHAELSON: These `temporary buttresses' you got put They're basically a pair of twigs. Thin
TOBY: PAUL MICHAELSON
PAUL MICHAELSON: They're basically a pair of twigs. Thin
TOBY: I'm sure they're not twigs.
PAUL MICHAELSON: No they're twigs. Are you getting a picture of those twigs? That wall could fall on my mum and crush her. Do you know how old she is? Mum, how old are you? I want to tell the newspaper guy.
MALCOLM: I want a word with the minister and Charlotte Fucking Bronte.
PAUL MICHAELSON: You're never fucking sixty. You're older than that. Sixty. How old are you really?
PAUL MICHAELSON: Fuck off are you sixty. Olivia Newton- John's fucking sixty. And she's not on the statins, is she?
TOBY: Could you tell your mum to stay away from the wall just for the time being?
PAUL MICHAELSON: She needs to get to her plants. She has to water them. Plants need water.
TOBY: No, sure, but could she use a hose, from a distance?
PAUL MICHAELSON: She doesn't have a hose, she's got a watering can. This is like talking to a brick wall about a brick wall. Get that down, that's gold.
KAREN: Liza, what's up? Why is everyone running around? This better be a fucking fire The President has said he's vetoing tarrifs on Chinese auto imports.
LIZA: The President has said he's vetoing tarrifs on Chinese auto imports.
KAREN: Karen calls over to a staffer, ABBEY.
ABBEY: Mr Barwick has asked me to.
KAREN: You work to me, Abbey, you fucking work to me. Get me the statement. Or I will call security and have you escorted off the premises via the window.
LIZA: Sorry, why is that.? He's.what, buttering the Chinese up?
KAREN: He needs them to at least abstain in the security council.
LIZA: We're going to the UN.
KAREN: Yes, we're going to the UN.
LIZA: Page 80
KAREN: I should be told this fucking stuff! I'm going into Linton's office and pulling the pin on his grenade.
LIZA: Don't do that.
KAREN: I'm fucking joking.
LIZA: Why didn't you know about this?
KAREN: Why didn't you know about this?
LIZA: Well since I created the budget deficit the President doesn't tend to run things by me anymore.
KAREN: Don't get funny with me. I am not in the No. I'm getting that.
LIZA: No. I'm getting that.
MALCOLM: ( reading ) "While Foster jets around at the taxpayer's expense, his constituency headquarter's wall's collapsing and he doesn't give a shit.
SIMON: It doesn't say that.
MALCOLM: ( holding up paper ) No but it says `Wall-ace and Gromitt'
SIMON: Wall-ace though?
MALCOLM: You are being portrayed as the biggest twat in Northamptonshire, and that's going some.
TOBY: It is just a wall, Malcolm.
MALCOLM: Listen, my little stem cell, I don't want to be dealing with this either, okay? I've got bigger fucking fish to fry, believe me. I'm rolling blue whales in breadcrumbs at the moment. I'm giving this to Jamie.
SIMON: Oh great. The crossest man in Scotland.
JAMIE: Well, if it isn't Humpty-Numpty.
SIMON: What is this, surround bollocking?
JAMIE: With respect, I haven't finished. If it isn't Humpty-Numpty, sitting on top of a collapsing wall like some clueless egg- Hi Jamie.
SIMON: Hi Jamie.
TOBY: Okay, that's enough of the fucking Oxbridge pleasantries.
JAMIE: Okay, that's enough of the fucking Oxbridge pleasantries.
TOBY: How is saying "hello" a.
JAMIE: ( grabbing a hole-puncher ) Shut it, Love, Actually, or I'll hole- punch your face.
MALCOLM: Right, I'm off to deal with the fate of the planet, okay?
JAMIE: You know me, Malcy, kid gloves. Made from real kids.
SIMON: A walrus? I'm not fat. I don't even have a moustache.
TOBY: Look.we hired some builders. They didn't turn up when they said they would.
JAMIE: They're builders. What did you expect?! Have you ever seen a film where the hero is a builder? No. Because they never turn up in the fucking nick of time.That's why you never see a superhero with a hod.
SIMON: This is all getting.this is a really stressful job, you know that?
JUDY: Oh come on, you're not a brain surgeon, you're not a snooker player .
SIMON: I don't want to back a war, Judy.
JUDY: ( oh this is what it's about ) Oh. Right.
SIMON: Look, drop some hints, put some nods and winks out there, that I'm toying with resignation. Yeah? See if the PM reacts. See how it plays.
JUDY: Put out some winks?
SIMON: And nods.
JUDY: Big nods?
SIMON: No, no, just sort of. That sort of size nod.
JUDY: No, I was just nodding normally to say I understood the need for a small nod.
SIMON: Oh. Good.
MALCOLM: So, my lovely friends, bottom line.
MICHAEL: I hate that phrase. We're not in Sorry Michael, I promise never to use it
MALCOLM: Sorry Michael, I promise never to use it
SIMON: What the fuck, Malcolm. This is all going to spin along from here and we have a vote and we go to war. We fight people, and kill them, and our kids get killed, and that's exactly the sort of thing I didn't want to do when I went into politics. That's the opposite of what I want to be doing.
MALCOLM: That's why you've got to stay in Government. In here you can influence things, delay things. Out there you're just another mad shouty fucker people don't want to make eye-contact with. Remember Mary? She took a stand over Health. Everyone decided she was mental.
SIMON: Only because the Sun showed a photo of her with wide eyes and her head on a cow.
MALCOLM: I found that a very powerful image. Look, the Prime Minister of this country is not a Viking. He doesn't drink blood, he doesn't go round biting tramps. He doesn't go to Chequers at the weekend for a bit of light raping and a pub lunch.
SIMON: I know the Prime Minister isn't a Viking, Unlike me, the man abhors physical
MALCOLM: Unlike me, the man abhors physical
SIMON: Where's the intelligence? Where's the hard evidence?
MALCOLM: Listen, We've got evidence harder than a diamond dildo. We have intelligence so deep and hard it would fucking puncture your kidneys.There's an informant, `Ice Man', OK? The stuff he's giving us? It'll make your blood run cold. And clot. Your insides will turn to black pudding. .now, certain box-lickers are sitting on it. But you're going to see it, because the PM regards you as a key player now.
JUDY: Judy Molloy? ( BEAT ) Ten minutes. Thanks. Prime Minister wants to speak to you in ten minutes, Simon. He want you to go the
MALCOLM: See- you're A-list now. You're a Kennedy. In the VIP lounge, with the gold card and the complimentary drinks and the
SIMON: ( shouting to Malcolm ) Show me the evidence, Malcolm, that's my fucking bottom line.
JUDY: So do you still want.nods and winks?
MICHAEL: Cheers everyone. Here's to surviving another day.
JUDY: My theory is Malcolm built Jamie in a lab out of bits of old psychopath. Hello ladies.
TOBY: Hello ladies.
SUZY: And gentleman.
TOBY: ( doing the joke again ) Hello ladies. I'm just going to -
MICHAEL: Oh. Lovely. I think we could have another bottle of Sancerre.
TOBY: If you can afford it.
SUZY: If you can afford it.
JUDY: If you can get served at the bar.
SUZY: Fucking hell. Here we go again. Fucking You're kidding? What's it say?
MICHAEL: You're kidding? What's it say?
JUDY: What a twat. What are you doing? Are you replying?
TOBY: Yeah I wouldn't want to meet Jamie in a dark alley. Or a bright alley. The whole thing of just being in an alley with him would be scary, regardless of the
SUZY: You've got a text.
TOBY: ( reading, covering ) Oh yeah. It's just Rob about football.
SUZY: So, Liza. You shagged her?
TOBY: What? No.
SUZY: ( to Judy ) Did you know my flakey boyfriend has been getting his flakey end away?
JUDY: I don't know anything about his flakey Could we not talk about accusations and, health issues, in the pub?
TOBY: Could we not talk about accusations and, health issues, in the pub?
JUDY: I should go.
SUZY: You haven't finished your drink.
JUDY: No. I mainly have.
SUZY: Why did you do it?
TOBY: I don't know, it was a weird, intense time over there. It was.maybe, subconsciously, I don't know, it was a kind of last ditch attempt to stop this,
MICHAEL: That's classic. That's definitely going in the memoirs.
SUZY: You had sex because of the war?
TOBY: In the broad sense. Sorry, can you stop doing that? Can we go somewhere where they're aren't enormous children eating snacks?
JUDY: I should go.
SUZY: Actually I'll go.
MICHAEL: ( a beat ) Shall we stay?
JUDY: I should go. I've got a long walk ahead of me. But that'll keep me going.
TOBY: What the fuck is he doing here?
SUZY: What?! What the fuck are you doing here?
TOBY: Well I live here.
SUZY: No you don't actually. I'll go make that tea.
TOBY: ( beat ) Well, if I'm leaving, I'm taking my brie.
SUZY: Don't forget your hydrocortisone.
TOBY: You putting this in your memoirs as well?
MICHAEL: I should go.
SUZY: No, it's fine. Stay.
TOBY: Where's my needlecord jacket?
SUZY: Your geography teacher's jacket?
MICHAEL: That's not how you fold.
TOBY: Michael, this is one of the more humiliating moments of my life. I can pack a bag.
MICHAEL: The key to travelling is packing.
TOBY: I'm not going to fucking Fiji Michael, I'm being chucked out of my house.
MICHAEL: It'll save time the other end.
TOBY: There is no other end.
SUZY: Has she got big tits?
TOBY: Massive. Enormous. You can see them on Google Earth. They've got their own
SUZY: Toby struggles to open the front door. Suzy opens it. Toby goes to leave then stops.
TOBY: Look, Suzy, this is probably going to sound odd under the circumstances.
SUZY: No. Thank you. But no. It's about Liza.
TOBY: No. Thank you. But no. It's about Liza.
SUZY: Oh good tell me more, tell me more about her tits.
TOBY: Listen, Suze, Liza wrote a paper, Pwip- Pip. I think, if it got leaked, it could stop the war.
MICHAEL: Good tactic. Get earnest. I tried that with the wife. Didn't work.
SUZY: You are such a fucking coward, you know that? And this is what? A make up leak?
TOBY: Does such a thing exist?
SUZY: Toby, take your rubbish clothes and your back issues of Mojo, your flute, and your eighth of dope and leave me the fuck
SIMON: Should I resign? I've floated that I might, when I thought I wouldn't, so it'll look convincing if I did. I mean, do you think, is it braver to just resign and say, `No, no war'?
JUDY: Or is it actually braver to say, `I don't agree, but I'm going to grit my teeth and get on with it?' Is the really brave thing actually doing what you don't Though maybe? What's brave about doing the `right thing'? Nothing. Doing the wrong thing is braver. In a way. I mean, you know, wars sometimes work. The War of Independence, that worked. For the Americans. Second World War. That was a good idea. I mean not a good idea but .
SIMON: Or is it actually braver to say, `I don't agree, but I'm going to grit my teeth and get on with it?' Is the really brave thing actually doing what you don't Though maybe? What's brave about doing the `right thing'? Nothing. Doing the wrong thing is braver. In a way. I mean, you know, wars sometimes work. The War of Independence, that worked. For the Americans. Second World War. That was a good idea. I mean not a good idea but .
JUDY: Though maybe? What's brave about doing the `right thing'? Nothing. Doing the wrong thing is braver. In a way. I mean, you know, wars sometimes work. The War of Independence, that worked. For the Americans. Second World War. That was a good idea. I mean not a good idea but .
TOBY: Though maybe? What's brave about doing the `right thing'? Nothing. Doing the wrong thing is braver. In a way. I mean, you know, wars sometimes work. The War of Independence, that worked. For the Americans. Second World War. That was a good idea. I mean not a good idea but .
SIMON: I know what you mean. And the Crimean War we got nurses out of that.
TOBY: Nurses are good.
SIMON: ( as if they've achieved Exactly. So.right. Exactly.
JUDY: So you're not resigning?
SIMON: No, I..( trying to change the subject ) where's Malcolm?
SIMON: ( conspiratorially to Toby ) In the motorcade. Let's get a car without You want hookers? You like hooky fucky?
TOBY: You want hookers? You like hooky fucky?
SIMON: I want to talk about the resigning thing.
TOBY: But with you and not her. She has this air of moral righteousness that inhibits you from. saying anything morally
SIMON: But with you and not her. She has this air of moral righteousness that inhibits you from. saying anything morally
MALCOLM: ( looking at phone ) So. The wires are all currently reporting that you're going to resign from government over the war.
SIMON: What? That wasn't supposed to get Yeah well it is outside. It's lurking outside like a big hairy rapist at a coach station.
MALCOLM: Yeah well it is outside. It's lurking outside like a big hairy rapist at a coach station.
SIR JONATHAN: Hello, gentlemen, Sir Jonathan Tutt. This is it. The United Nations.
SIMON: It's all a bit `blurrrgh', isn't it?
JUDY: It could do with a few more scatter cushions and a bit less asbestos.
SIR JONATHAN: I don't know what you were expecting Jacobean panelling perhaps, arabesques of stonework tracery. great fountains.
MALCOLM: It's a shithole. It looks like a hospice for robots.
SIR JONATHAN: Linton Barwick is in there. Karen Clark is there. You're right here.
MALCOLM: Nibbles? Who still says nibbles?
TOBY: Fuck the nibbles, what was with the homoerotic tension?
MALCOLM: Jamie. Hello?
JAMIE: Okay, your phone's off, which means you've been shot dead by a fat American, but there's been a fucktastrophe. Someone's leaked Liza Weld's Pwip Pip paper to the BBC. I reckon it'll be on the Six O'Clock news here, one o'clock your time, so it's going to fist your fucking vote apart. Missing you loads, pwip-pip, toodle-oo!
MALCOLM: Okay Jamie, two jobs. One: find the Pwip Pip leaker and kill them. That's one job. Job one has two parts. Job two: stop Pwip Pip coming out. Sow enough seeds of fear and doubt that the fat arses at the BBC dither till after the vote, okay? After the vote Enola Gay is cleared for take- off and everything is groovy. I love
MALCOLM: ( to Sir Jonathan ) Do not move from this spot or I'll fucking stab you.
SIR JONATHAN: ( to Simon ) Was it you?
MALCOLM: ( to Simon ) Was it you?
SIMON: No, what? No.
MALCOLM: But you know what I'm talking about?
SIMON: No, but whatever it was I didn't do it.
MALCOLM: ( to Toby ) Was it you, The-Baby-From-Eraserhead?
TOBY: ( to Judy ) So it must have been you Woman from The Crying Game?
MALCOLM: ( to Judy ) So it must have been you Woman from The Crying Game?
JUDY: It wasn't me. You've really got it in for me haven't you?
MALCOLM: Someone's dropped a bollock in the noodles and I reckon it was you.
JUDY: We've done this all before. You accused me of leaking last time and it wasn't me.
MALCOLM: Yeah well I know you didn't leak last time. But what I reckon is you got so pissy about being accused, you leaked this time.
TOBY: Yeah. Yeah, that does sound possible.
JUDY: Look Springer Spaniel, keep your little wet nose out alright?
TOBY: I'm just saying psychologically speaking that sounds plausible - that you might build up a resentment and then pay it off in some underhand way. That's just something I've observed.
MALCOLM: Come on, Baldermort, I need a word.
TOBY: ( they look at each other ) Sorry about that - it's just . ( mumbles ) something I've observed.
JUDY: Wanker. It's okay. It's fine. It's probably just the stress of this awful, awful war.
MALCOLM: We're in a new reality now and You've got to speed things up.
SIR JONATHAN: What things? Speed up what?
MALCOLM: The debate. It needs to start at eleven o'clock, not one thirty.
SIR JONATHAN: Hehe. Can I perhaps briefly explain the way the process works? And why that isn't possible? You see through that door there are a number of secretariats that are currently doing what we call the washing up now.
MALCOLM: Just fucking do it, fishlips. Otherwise you'll find yourself in some medieval warzone in the Caucasus with your arse in the air, trying to persuade a group of men in balaclavas that sustained sexual violence is not the way forward.
SIR JONATHAN: No, it can't be. I mean it could be done, it just can't.
MALCOLM: Then I'll do it. They're through there?
SIR JONATHAN: Yes but you can't go in, that would be a serious breach of protocol .
MALCOLM: Then you do it. Get in there.
SIR JONATHAN: I'm not dancing with you Malcolm.
MALCOLM: I'm leading, look follow my lead.
SIR JONATHAN: You're not dancing me into the
MALCOLM: Where's the intel? Are you sure you're working as hard as me? Cos I'm sweating spinal fluid here. I'm a husk.
MILLER: You get everything you need?
MALCOLM: ( in a hurry ) Oh yeah I think so. Thanks. ( a beat, thinks ) Oh, Whoa whoa whoa just a wee moment General Flintstone. Was it you? Did you leak Pwip Pip? I know you can't fire a gun, but can you use a fax?
MILLER: No, see, because I'm upfront about what I do. I don't creep around like some fucking gay mercenary doing other people's dirty work.
MALCOLM: I'm doing my own work. I'm doing my job.
MILLER: Uh-hu. I think you're doing Linton's dirty work. I think you're his English bitch and if I walked into your hotel room tonight I'd find you on all fours in fishnets and him hanging out the back of Oooo. Tough talk from the armchair General. What you going to do? Throw a cushion at me? Put your feet up on a poof and go back to sleep why don't you?
MALCOLM: Oooo. Tough talk from the armchair General. What you going to do? Throw a cushion at me? Put your feet up on a poof and go back to sleep why don't you?
GENERAL MILLER: Listen, Tucker, you may be some scary poodlefucker back in London, but here? You know what you look like? A fucking squeezed dick. You got a blue vein running all the way up to your temple there. That's where I'd put the fucking bullet. But I'd stand well back. You look like you'd be a squirter.
MALCOLM: Have you ever even killed anybody? Falling asleep on someone doesn't count.
GENERAL MILLER: Falling asleep on someone doesn't count.
MALCOLM: Falling asleep on someone doesn't count.
GENERAL MILLER: ( closer ) I've done my share. How many you kill, pussy drip?
MALCOLM: Personally, I prefer maiming.
GENERAL MILLER: Go on, tough guy, take a swing at me. I'll smack you so fucking hard you'll be shitting teeth.
MALCOLM: Go ahead. I can see the headlines now. 'Peace-Loving General Starts Fight In UN, Swiss Intervene'. I don't know, I'm no expert on spin but could that hurt your
SIR JONATHAN: Hello everyone. I was wondering if I might suggest a cheeky early vote? Bit of an adventure. Maybe, we could knock off early, go for a drink? Ha. I'm kidding. Or am I? No, I am.
KAREN: ( looking at computer ) There it is. Simon's going. Everyone's saying he's going.
GENERAL MILLER: ( spotting Simon ) Simon! There he is! Simon. ( re internet ) This is great shit. I wasn't sure you had the nerve. You're resigning?
SIMON: Ah okay. They're not running with that? I have not said that.
GENERAL MILLER: You're not resigning?
KAREN: You're still playing the hawk?
SIMON: It's much subtler than that. It's nuanced. I'm playing a much cleverer game than that. I'm a fake hawk.
GENERAL MILLER: I'm sorry?
SIMON: ( whispering ) Fake hawk.
GENERAL MILLER: You're a fake hawk? You're a fucking idiot. You're not a fake idiot are you.
KAREN: ( to General Miller, as if We could just tell the press he's going anyway. Say he's confirmed to us that he's resigning.
SIMON: GENERAL MILLER
GENERAL MILLER: I second that.
SIMON: What? You can't.
GENERAL MILLER: Do we announce it before or after the During. Then he can't do anything about Great. That's decided then.
KAREN: During. Then he can't do anything about Great. That's decided then.
GENERAL MILLER: Great. That's decided then.
SIMON: No. No it's bloody not. I'm - me. You're not me. I decide about all the main things about me, okay? Not you. Me.
GENERAL MILLER: No. No Simon. I'm afraid not. Not on this one. This is too big for you.
KAREN: Be realistic. You're being used. We all are. The one thing we can do now to influence things is to resign. Sacrifice ourselves. That's our only weapon.
SIMON: Like a suicide bomber?
GENERAL MILLER: No, not like a suicide bomber. A suicide bomber gets to make a decision.
TOBY: Listen, I'm really sorry about Suzy and the texting and .
LIZA: Good. Thanks. Do you have figures there for CFE minimum requirements?
TOBY: Conventional Forces in Europe.
LIZA: Conventional Forces in Europe.
TOBY: Sure. I'll just dig that out. Look it was a very special evening for me and .
LIZA: ( pissed off ) Sorry? What? You're mumbling.
TOBY: I just wandered if tonight when all this shit is over we couldn't - you know. You're single. I'm single now. You're a woman. I'm not.
LIZA: You want to have sex again?
TOBY: It's not a terrible idea is it? One more. For the Gipper?
LIZA: You know what a douchbag is Toby? You're a douchbag on fucking wheels.
TOBY: Thanks. That was short and sweet. Well, short and sour.
JUDY: You okay?
SIMON: I'm thinking of becoming a suicide That's certainly a very powerful way of getting your point across.
JUDY: That's certainly a very powerful way of getting your point across.
SIMON: Would you like a mint?
JUDY: I'm okay thanks. Are you thinking to overdose on mints? Because.
SIMON: Do you like me Judy?
JUDY: You're my boss.
SIMON: Yeah, but do you actually like me.
JUDY: Sure. Look, I'll leave you to your
SIMON: I haven't got any thoughts. I'm just staring vacantly into space while a distant voice in the back of my head goes "oh shit" like a car alarm in the middle of the night.
JAMIE: Was it you?
MICHAEL: Not you. I know it wasn't you, you're too fucking horny for your Knighthood.
JAMIE: Not you. I know it wasn't you, you're too fucking horny for your Knighthood.
SUZY: Was what me?
JAMIE: Was it fucking you!? Answer the question!
MICHAEL: She can't very well answer the question if you don't tell her what it is, can Fuck off to your room, Count of Cunty Cristo, this is between me and her. You leaked Liza Weld's paper to the BBC. Tell me you leaked it.
JAMIE: Fuck off to your room, Count of Cunty Cristo, this is between me and her. You leaked Liza Weld's paper to the BBC. Tell me you leaked it.
SUZY: I didn't leak anything. I don't know what you're talking about.
JAMIE: You're lying. You touched your nose. That's what's called a `tell'. You are
SUZY: No I'm not.
JAMIE: `No I'm not.' That's a tell as well. I know the leak came from here, from this fucking fax machine here.
MICHAEL: It was me.
JAMIE: Oh fuck off. Don't come over all Spartacus now.
MICHAEL: I leaked it.
JAMIE: Advances on Michael, becomes aware of the music. Jamie points to the CD player.
MICHAEL: I just sent it. I thought it was important so I sent it through.
JAMIE: ( considers then, ) Ok. See this fax machine?( kick ) That's your career. I'm pretty sure it's fucked. Let me just check ( kick ). Yeah, it is. Plus, breach of Official Secrets, so that's fucking swannee. Maybe you can get a part time job in West End as a gentleman's fluffer. Or whatever the fuck they call it these days.
MICHAEL: Well, you know better to go out with a No, no. I will not allow this to be a bang. This will be a whimper, a tiny pathetic whimper like a puppy being fucked by a big metal puppy-fucking machine. And they do exist, `cos my gran's got one.
JAMIE: No, no. I will not allow this to be a bang. This will be a whimper, a tiny pathetic whimper like a puppy being fucked by a big metal puppy-fucking machine. And they do exist, `cos my gran's got one.
LINTON: So we're down to the wire here, Mr Miracle Worker, what have you got for me? What intel have you rustled us up?
MALCOLM: Honestly? I haven't got it. We need more You haven't got it? Can you delay the vote to give you time to get it?
LINTON: You haven't got it? Can you delay the vote to give you time to get it?
MALCOLM: No. I've had the vote brought forward.
SIMON: Just getting my mints.
LINTON: I am telling you to delay the vote and get me some new intel. Now.
MALCOLM: Okay, quick reality check, J Edgar Fucking Hoover. I don't work for you. You don't tell me what to fucking do.
LINTON: Well firstly, don't raise your voice. This is a sacred space. You may not believe that, I may not believe that, but by God it's a useful hypocrisy. And secondarily you do work for me. Your prime minister instructed you to work for
MALCOLM: Get your Polos and fuck off.
LINTON: The great Malcolm Tucker. One of your guys has leaked a paper, you can't do anything. We tell you to get intel, you can't do anything. I need the vote put back - you can't do anything. You, sir, are a useless piece of `S' star star `T'.
MALCOLM: ( quietly, to Toby ) What do you want?
TOBY: We've just heard the wall's starting to collapse. A brick has fallen. That's the news I'm getting. More to follow. Both news and bricks.
LINTON: Why don't you deal with that Tucker? A wall is falling down, that's more your level. I can see you with your shirt off and a wheelbarrow whistling a happy song.
SIMON: You've been working for him?
MALCOLM: It's complicated, okay? I've been juggling a number of responsibilities.
SIMON: Okay, well, right, after the vote, I Look. It's too late now. Resigning. It's not worth it. The horse has bolted. It's out there getting shot now.
MALCOLM: Look. It's too late now. Resigning. It's not worth it. The horse has bolted. It's out there getting shot now.
SIMON: I'll see you later, Malcolm.
MALCOLM: ( to Toby ) If you repeat this to anyone I will pull your leg off, break it in two and stab you to death with your broken shin bone. Now go away.
TOBY: ( into phone ) Suzy, how's it going? Has Jamie been round? Right.
LIZA: This is you, isn't it?
TOBY: ( indicating himself ) This is me, yes. And that's you. I thought we had this worked out. ( into phone )
LIZA: I've got something big lined up and you better not have fucked it up for me.
TOBY: ( into phone ) Hello? Oh hi, Paul. How's it going? No, yes, I know the wall is collapsing. I'm as frustrated as you are mate.
JAMIE: Right, Frank and Nancy Sinatra. I've got good news. You're not fired. That's great news, isn't it?
MICHAEL: That sounds ominous.
JAMIE: He's fucking delighted. We want to put Liza Weld's Pwip Pip out there, properly. In the public domain. We just have to refine it a bit.
SUZY: Refine it?
JAMIE: Take out the cons, change the name of the main informant.
MICHAEL: That's a complete fabrication.
JAMIE: Changing his name doesn't make a difference. The main source in there he's not really called Ice Man, is he? "Mr and Mrs Man, you've got a son, Ice." So we change it, to another name. Who's the fuck with the fiddle? The Fiddlefuck.
MICHAEL: This is Debussy, if that's what you mean.
JAMIE: Okay, we'll call him Debussy.
MICHAEL: And then you'll make a couple of other changes. It'll mean your fingerprints are on it, Mikey, but it's the only way to save your job, you leaky fuck.
JAMIE: And then you'll make a couple of other changes. It'll mean your fingerprints are on it, Mikey, but it's the only way to save your job, you leaky fuck.
MICHAEL: It wasn't me, Jamie, alright? It wasn't me. Don't make me do this. Someone else must have come in and used the fax What? Oh, that thing about your fax? Don't worry about that. I made that up. The paper was sent by e-mail. It;s just, the fax machine was there and it;s easier to kick. Come on Deuce Bigalow. You're coming with
JAMIE: What? Oh, that thing about your fax? Don't worry about that. I made that up. The paper was sent by e-mail. It;s just, the fax machine was there and it;s easier to kick. Come on Deuce Bigalow. You're coming with
MALCOLM: Yeah, BBC newsdesk please. Malcolm Tucker. ( BEAT ) Ben? Hi, how you doing? Yeah, well, I'm hearing you're preparing a story that we might not like.
TOBY: Can we stop running because my hands are really rather badly burned now.
MALCOLM: I know it was you who leaked Linton's War Oh? Right. It wasn't?
TOBY: Oh? Right. It wasn't?
MALCOLM: Are you telling me it wasn't you? Is that your proposition? Is that want you want to say if I ask them to fly you to Diego Garcia and slip a hood over your head and carry out a cavity search?
TOBY: ( covering ) I don't actually recall. It was a busy That's more like it. So.you are now on probation. Okay?
MALCOLM: That's more like it. So.you are now on probation. Okay?
TOBY: You're my guy now. I own you now. You're my Kunte Kinte. Go and get your laptop. Ah, ambassador with your big baldy head you are spoiling us.
MALCOLM: You're my guy now. I own you now. You're my Kunte Kinte. Go and get your laptop. Ah, ambassador with your big baldy head you are spoiling us.
SIR JONATHAN: Good, I've been looking for you. I needed to tell you that by a huge personal effort huge I have managed to bring the vote forward by an hour and a half.
MALCOLM: Great. I need it delayed now.
SIR JONATHAN: Very funny. That is funny.
MALCOLM: By an hour, at least. Although I guess two and a half hours now, as you've brought it forward.
SIR JONATHAN: No, I'm sorry I'm very sorry but I won't humiliate myself again.
MALCOLM: You do what I say or you can go and see if Belize are looking for a new ambassador but with a broken nose, one bollock, and a half-chewed cock.
SIR JONATHAN: Right. What can I say? ..
JAMIE: ( to Michael re: the office ) This is nice isn't it? Cosy. Away from prying eyes.
MICHAEL: So what's this, your political wet-room?
MALCOLM: Is it up, have you got it up?
JAMIE: Yeah it's all fine.
MALCOLM: Okay, go to page nine, highlight that.
JAMIE: ( to Michael ) Go to page nine.
MALCOLM: Highlight from that page to the end of the document.
JAMIE: Do you mean select?
MALCOLM: I don't know I don't use these things.
JAMIE: ( to Michael ) Select page nine to the end of the
MICHAEL: The caveats?
MALCOLM: Is it highlighted?
JAMIE: You mean selected, yeah it's selected.
MALCOLM: Okay, right, standby . delete!
JAMIE: ( to Michael ) ( subdued ) You can't just delete the arguments against the war.
MICHAEL: ( subdued ) You can't just delete the arguments against the war.
MALCOLM: ( to Toby ) Messenger! Get Messenger up!
JAMIE: Oh hang on Malc. Michael's stopped moving. I think he's crashed.
MALCOLM: Have you tried hitting him? Give him a thump, that usually works.
JAMIE: Hang on, I think I might be able to use manual over-ride.
MALCOLM: Great. Now attach that to email.
JAMIE: ( to Michael ) Attach that to an email.
MALCOLM: ( to Toby ) Right, let's find a printer. The Japanese, they'll have one. They've got
MALCOLM: Get me a blue folder.
TOBY: Where from?
MALCOLM: I don't fucking know. Do I look like I've ever set foot in a stationary cupboard? I do my shagging in five star hotels. Now go and find me a blue fucking folder.
MALCOLM: The intelligence your guys couldn't find? I think you owe me a massive, grovelling What, you did your job? Eventually? Congratulations. Maybe they'll give you a It's been a pleasure working with you. You know, I've met some psychos in my time, but none as fucking BORING as you. Oh sorry, that's right. You disapprove of swearing. A boring F star star CUNT!
LINTON: What, you did your job? Eventually? Congratulations. Maybe they'll give you a It's been a pleasure working with you. You know, I've met some psychos in my time, but none as fucking BORING as you. Oh sorry, that's right. You disapprove of swearing. A boring F star star CUNT!
MALCOLM: It's been a pleasure working with you. You know, I've met some psychos in my time, but none as fucking BORING as you. Oh sorry, that's right. You disapprove of swearing. A boring F star star CUNT!
LINTON: Welcome aboard Liza. By the way, congratulations on Pwip Pip. Excellent I don't know. I haven't read it personally. No time. But it certainly raised your profile.
LIZA: I don't know. I haven't read it personally. No time. But it certainly raised your profile.
LINTON: I don't know. I haven't read it personally. No time. But it certainly raised your profile.
LIZA: No. That old thing? That was like a thousand years ago. More maybe.
LINTON: ( to the delegation ) So, I'll keep this brief and to the point. We go in, we make our case using the new British intelligence from their source `Debussy', we win the argument, we get the hell out.
CHAIR: ( on screen ) Resolution 5977 is passed.
SIMON: Yup. That's that then.
TOBY: "That's that then"? That's your quote for the ages is it?
SIMON: 'And I remember the moment war was declared. I turned to the Minister and he said "That's that, then. Anyone want a Piss off, Toby.
TOBY: 'And I remember the moment war was declared. I turned to the Minister and he said "That's that, then. Anyone want a Piss off, Toby.
SIMON: Piss off, Toby.
LINTON: We did it Bob!
BOB ADRIANO: Yes sir! There were moments when it was a little hairy .
LINTON: No there weren't, no.
JAMIE: ( sweetly ) Well done Michael. You did a good job. You did a really, really good job.
KAREN: So, I emailed my resignation ten minutes Yours should come right after the President's announcement, to have the biggest media impact.
GENERAL MILLER: I've been thinking Karen. This has been the hardest fucking decision of my political life. I'm not resigning.
KAREN: What the fuck George. Seriously? You said that the war was intolerable and we'd go It is - it is intolerable. I still agree with myself about that. But I've got to tolerate it. My loyalty is with the kids. At the end of the day I'm a soldier.
GENERAL MILLER: It is - it is intolerable. I still agree with myself about that. But I've got to tolerate it. My loyalty is with the kids. At the end of the day I'm a soldier.
KAREN: You're not a soldier.
GENERAL MILLER: Look at the uniform, Karen. I'm not a pastry chef. I have military commendations on my chest, not a little fucking label saying My Name Is George.
KAREN: You're a politician. You live on canapes and white wine and you have three anecdotes you wheel out at every party and you scour the national papers for mentions of your name. You're a fucking I'm still a soldier.
GENERAL MILLER: I'm still a soldier.
KAREN: When was the last time you shot a guy?
GENERAL MILLER: What, if I haven't shot a guy in 15 years then I'm not a soldier? City hall don't insist I bring along a fucking bullet- ridden corpse every five years to renew my soldier licence.
KAREN: You know this is an unnecessary war. It's a war you don't believe in. Show me some balls, George.
GENERAL MILLER: I know I've got balls, I don't need to show them to you.
KAREN: Oh sure, It just so happens they're sitting pretty in a pair of Egyptian cotton Ralph Lauren shorts on a Government salary.
GENERAL MILLER: Don't talk about my fucking balls that way. My balls have been around. My balls have got balls.
KAREN: Come on Chad, let's leave the General and his over-stuffed scrotum. We're going to draft our resignation announcements.
CHAD: Er, I might, stay with the General actually Karen, if that's okay? If he's staying I might stay with him and see what assistance I can furnish.
KAREN: Okay. General Shrek and his faithful talking donkey.
GENERAL MILLER: This takes balls Karen.
CHAD: You've got balls Sir. Anyone can see you've got big balls. They're two-thirds of a snowman.
GENERAL MILLER: Get the fuck away from me.
CHAD: Okay. This was not the plan.
SIMON: No, you're right. I am a piss-brain. That's the perfect word, Mr Michaelson. Your mother came up with it? Well congratulate her from me. I am a piss- brain for letting this happen.
MALCOLM: Simon, look, mate. Listen to me. You still don't need to resign.
SIMON: No. I'm going to resign, Malcolm. In a hour. You can't stop me now.
TOBY: SIMON MALCOLM
SIMON: God, and that's NEWS. Ridiculous, isn't It's nor Ridiculous. You're fired.
MALCOLM: It's nor Ridiculous. You're fired.
SIMON: The wall. It's just not tolerable.
MALCOLM: The wall. It's just not tolerable.
SIMON: It's just a fucking wall.
MALCOLM: Look at this. Give me the paper. He's my new boy. I'm just breaking him
TOBY: Page 120
MALCOLM: The Telegraph has a cartoon of you crushed underneath the Great Wall Of China, suggesting you are the only political fuck-up visible from space. Look at this. No one could survive this. The PM is very clear on this - you're sacked, over the wall.
SIMON: You haven't even - spoken to the Prime Yes I have.
MALCOLM: You haven't even - spoken to the Prime Yes I have.
SIMON: You haven't even - spoken to the Prime Yes I have.
MALCOLM: Yes I have.
SIMON: You fucking haven't I've been right here.
MALCOLM: I have spoken to the Prime Minister. Whether it has happened or not is irrelevant. It is true. As soon as I heard about the wall, I spoke to him and he decided you had to go.
SIMON: I'm not going quietly.
MALCOLM: Yeah well if you try to turn this into some anti-war protest, you can expect your `mountain of conflict' soundbite to be everywhere from ringtones to a fucking dance mix on YouTube. I will marshall all the forces of media darkness to hound you to an assisted suicide.
TOBY: Hi. General? Look I realise this is a slightly strange time to say this, but I just want to say how much I admire.
GENERAL MILLER: Go fuck yoursefl, Frodo.
TOBY: Great. Lovely
LINTON: Okay, I don't want to be accused of micro managing but I personally do not see that `I heart Huckabees' should be on the list of dvds suitable for forces entertainment. That self-indulgent crap is not suitable entertainment for combat troops. And where's `United 93' on here? That should be playing 24/7.
ROZ: Right, I've got a selection of quotes for you, they're all local firms and none of them is very well respected. Now, this sceptic tank is also rearing it's pooy head again too.
MALCOLM: Ah, here they are. Minister. Elizabeth. Welcome aboard.
MINISTER: Thanks Malcolm. Looking forward to it. War seems to be going `great guns' at the Ah, cheeky! Let me take you out for an expensive lunch, roast swan and all the trimmings, and I'll bring you up to speed on the whole Middle East situation.
MALCOLM: Ah, cheeky! Let me take you out for an expensive lunch, roast swan and all the trimmings, and I'll bring you up to speed on the whole Middle East situation.
MINISTER: Are you twisting my arm already?
MALCOLM: Aye, but in a friendly, non-breaky way. Watch your step there. There's still blood on the deck.
ADVISOR: ( to Judy ) Hi I'm Danny. Dan. I'm Elizabeth's chief Judy Molloy. Senior Press -
JUDY: Judy Molloy. Senior Press -
ADVISOR: Have I got a desk?
JUDY: Yes, it's that one there.
THE END: Writers : Jesse Armstrong Simon Blackwell Armando Iannucci Tony Roche
