PERU: A narrow trail across the green face of the canyon. A group of men make their way along it. At the head of the party is an American, INDIANA JONES. He wears a short leather jacket, a flapped holster, and a brimmed felt hat with a weird feather stuck in the band. Behind him come two Spanish Peruvians, SATIPO and BARRANCA. Bringing up the rear are five Yagua INDIANS. They act as porters and are wrangling the two heavily- packed llamas. The Indians become increasingly nervous. They speak to each other in bursts of Quechua. The American, who is known to his friends as Indy, glances back at them.
BARRANCA: ( irritated ) They're talking about the Curse again!
INDY: Barranca looks evilly at Indy's hand upon him. Indy releases him and smiles in a friendly way.
INDY: We don't need them.
BARRANCA: I do not carry supplies.
INDY: We'll leave them. Once we've got it, we'll be able to reach the plane by
SATIPO: ( showing Indy ) The Hovitos are near. The poison is still fresh. three days. They're following us, I tell you.
INDY: If they knew we were here, they would have killed us already.
INDY: So this is where Forrestal cashed A friend of yours?
SATIPO: A friend of yours?
INDY: Competitor. He was good, very good.
BARRANCA: ( nervous ) No one has ever come out of there alive. Why should we put our faith in you? No one ever had what we have.
INDY: No one ever had what we have.
INDY: ( back turned ) Assuming that pillar there marks the corner and.
SATIPO: I knew nothing! He was crazy! Please!
INDY: Let's go.
SATIPO: What's wrong? Are you lost?
INDY: ( gulps ) We can go no further.
SATIPO: ( gulps ) We can go no further.
INDY: Now, Satipo, we don't want to be discouraged by every little thing.
STAIRWAY: Indy and Satipo come down stone stairs to a tight landing. Framing the entry are a carefully strung network of dead vines, each somehow hooked into the wall, narrowing the opening even more.
INDY: ( taking torch ) Let me see that.
INDY: Try not to touch the vines.
SATIPO: Señor, I think we are very close.
SATIPO: ( impatient ) Let us hurry. There is nothing to fear here.
INDY: That's what scares me.
THE SANCTUARY: A large, domed room. Ten evenly-spaced skylights send their shafts of sunlight down to a unique tiled floor: white and black tiles laid out in a lovely, intricate pattern. Indy and Satipo stand at the door and look across the wide room at the altar. There, in the supreme hallowed spot, is a tiny jeweled figurine, Indy's real objective. Two torches, many years old, are in holders by the door. Indy takes one down and lights it. He gives the regular torch to Satipo.
SATIPO: There's plenty of light, amigo. From that hole!
SATIPO: From that hole!
INDY: You wait here.
SATIPO: If you insist, señor.
SATIPO: No time to argue. Throw me the idol, I throw you the whip.
SATIPO: You have no choice! Hurry!
SATIPO: Adios, amigo!
INDY: THE INCLINED PASSAGE Indy shoots out of a cut-off hallway and turns toward the exit. The rumbling is very loud and now we see why: right behind Indy a huge boulder comes roaring around a corner of the passage, perfectly form-fitted to the passageway. It obliterates everything before it, sending the stalactites shooting ahead like missiles. Indy dashes for the light of the exit. His hat flies off his head. Almost immediately it is crushed by the boulder. Indy dives out the end of the passage as the boulder slams to a perfect fit at the entrance, sealing the Temple.
BELLOQ: Dr. Jones, you choose the wrong friends. This time it will cost you. And you thought I'd given up.
BELLOQ: And you thought I'd given up.
INDY: ( eyeing the Hovitos ) Too bad they don't know you like I do, Belloq.
BELLOQ: ( smiles ) Yes, too bad. You could warn them. if only you spoke Hovitos. ( in Hovitos ) Kill him!
BELLOQ: ( in Hovitos ) Kill him!
INDY: ( yelling ) Get it going! Get it going!
INDY: Jock starts the plane moving across the water as Indy walks across the wing and falls into the passenger compartment.
GO!: Jock starts the plane moving across the water as Indy walks across the wing and falls into the passenger compartment.
JOCK: Don't mind him. That's Reggie. Wouldn't hurt a soul.
INDY: I can't stand snakes.
JOCK: The world's full of them, you know.
INDY: I hate them.
JOCK: Come on now, Sport, show a little of the old backbone.
MARCUS BRODY: The Curator of the National Museum in Washington, D.C. Brody is examining the small artifacts Indy pocketed on his way into the Peruvian Temple. He occasionally uses a jeweler's eyepiece to get a closer look. But he is distracted, his concerns elsewhere, and it is this that his old friend Indy senses from across the room.
BRODY: Do you think the idol will ever show I don't know. Just because Belloq had it doesn't mean he kept it.
INDY: I don't know. Just because Belloq had it doesn't mean he kept it.
INDY: Getting it away from those Indians would be a neat trick I hope they got him.
TEACHING ASSISTANT: I couldn't get the McNabe, Professor. Someone's got it checked out 'til next month when classes start.
INDY: That's all right, Phil. Thanks a Will there be anything else?
TEACHING ASSISTANT: ( eager to please ) Will there be anything else?
INDY: No. I'll see you Thursday.
INDY: Hey, if you don't like them, I can always return them.
BRODY: No, they're beautiful. The Museum will buy them as usual. No questions Then what's wrong?
INDY: Then what's wrong?
BRODY: I brought along some people today.
INDY: What kind of people?
BRODY: ( concerned ) Don't worry, it's not about your ( indicates the artifacts ) They're from the Army.
INDY: ( concerned ) Don't worry, it's not about your ( indicates the artifacts ) They're from the Army.
BRODY: Don't worry, it's not about your They're from the Army.
INDY: I've already served.
BRODY: Army Intelligence. They're looking for Abner.
MUSGROVE: But you did study under Professor Ravenwood at the University of We haven't spoken in ten years. I'm afraid we had a bit of a falling You know nothing of his whereabouts?
INDY: ( nods ) We haven't spoken in ten years. I'm afraid we had a bit of a falling You know nothing of his whereabouts?
EATON: You know nothing of his whereabouts?
INDY: ( negative ) Just rumors. Somewhere in Asia, last I heard.
EATON: ( to Musgrove ) Maybe Dr. Jones can make sense of
MUSGROVE: Well. you must understand, Dr. Jones, this is all strictly I understand.
INDY: I understand.
MUSGROVE: Yesterday, one of our European sections intercepted a Nazi communiqué from Cairo to Berlin. We don't quite know what to make of it.
MUSGROVE: Here it is - "Tanis development proceeding. Acquire headpiece, Staff of Ra, General Tengtu Hok, Shanghai. Locate Abner Ravenwood, U.S."
BRODY: Tanis. They must have discovered the lost ruins.
INDY: ( to himself ) Tanis. Ain't that somethin'!
EATON: Frankly, we're a little suspicious. An American being mentioned so prominently in a secret Nazi cable.
INDY: Ah, Ravenwood's no Nazi.
EATON: Then what do they want him for?
INDY: They're looking for the headpiece to the Staff of Ra.
MUSGROVE: ( indicates his sheet ) But it says here that's in China.
INDY: Only half of it. Ravenwood had the other half.
EATON: What would the Nazis want with this - this Staff of Ra?
BRODY: I can tell you that. Over the last two years the Nazis have had teams of archeologists running around the world looking for all kinds of religious artifacts.
MUSGROVE: That's right. Hitler's a nut on the subject. Crazy. He's obsessed with the occult.
EATON: What is this Staff of Ra, anyway?
INDY: It all has to do with the Ark of the The chest the Hebrews used to carry around the Ten Commandments.
INDY: An Egyptian pharaoh stole the Ark from Jerusalem and took it back to the city of Tanis. A short time later, Tanis was consumed by the desert in a sandstorm that lasted a year. But before that, the Pharaoh had had the Ark hidden away in a secret chamber called the Well of the Souls. Which is where the Staff of Ra comes in.
INDY: Now this was rather clever. The Staff was really just a big stick - oh, I don't know, say like this - no one really knows for sure. Any way, it was capped by an elaborate headpiece with a carving of the sun at the top. What you had to do was take the Staff to a special map room in Tanis - it had the whole city laid out in miniature on the floor. When you placed the Staff in a certain spot in this room, at a certain time of day, the sun would shine through a hole here in the headpiece and then send a beam of light down here - to the map - giving you the location of the Well of the Souls.
MUSGROVE: .where the Ark of the Covenant was Which is probably what the Nazis are What's this Ark look like?
INDY: ( nods ) Which is probably what the Nazis are What's this Ark look like?
EATON: What's this Ark look like?
INDY: Look like? Why, it's right here.
THE PRINT: Fills the screen. It shows a Biblical battle. The Israelite Army is vanquishing an opposition force. At the forefront of the Israelite ranks, two men carry the Ark of the Covenant, a beautiful gold chest, crowned by two sculptured gold angels. The men do not touch the Ark itself; rather they carry it by use of two long wooden poles which pass through rings in the corners of the Ark. The painting is very dramatic, full of smoke, tumult and sinewy dying men. But the most astounding thing in the picture is the brilliant jet of white light and flame issuing from the wings of the angels. It pierces deep into the ranks of the retreating enemy, wreaking devastation and terror.
EATON: Good God!
INDY: Yes. That's what the Hebrews thought.
MUSGROVE: What's that supposed to be coming out of there?
INDY: Who knows. lightning. fire. the power of God.
EATON: I'm beginning to understand Hitler's interest in this thing.
INDY: Oh yes. The Bible tells of it leveling mountains and wasting entire regions. Moses promised that when the Ark was with you, "your enemies will be scattered and your foes fell before An army which carries the Ark before it is invincible.
INDY: Oh, there's one other thing that Hitler undoubtably believes about the Ark. It's said that the Lost Ark will be recovered at the time of the coming of the True Messiah.
MUSGROVE: Dr. Jones, you've been very helpful. I hope we can call on you again if we have questions.
INDY: Most certainly.
BRODY: I've got to talk to you.
INDY: This isn't really a good time.
BRODY: Indy, it's important.
INDY: All right. Come on in.
INDY: I'll be in a minute.
BRODY: They want you to go for it. And they'll pay.
INDY: ( smiles ) Good work, Marcus. I had a feeling this would happen. And, of course, the Museum gets the Ark when we're ( smiles ) Of course.
BRODY: ( smiles ) Of course.
INDY: Okay, here's the way it's gonna be. First, I'll high-tail it to Shanghai and get the piece from General Hok. Then I think I know where I can find Ravenwood. If only I can get -
BRODY: General Hok's a tough customer. They don't call him the Wild Boar for nothing. And he's tied in with the I'll worry about that when the time comes. My only hope is to find the Well of the Souls before the Nazis
INDY: I'll worry about that when the time comes. My only hope is to find the Well of the Souls before the Nazis
KEHOE: Buzz Kehoe, Army Intelligence. You've met Bang Chow.
INDY: What's the hurry?
KEHOE: Some German agents got here two hours ago. Luckily, Bang was able to have them detained at Customs. We'll have to hurry.
KEHOE: Jesus! Are you all right!
INDY: ( he's felt better ) Great. Got it.
KEHOE: What now?
INDY: I've got to get to Nepal.
SHERPA: Gmoiska! Shurga rintoik!
CLIMBER: Aye! That'll be your last word.
MARION: That does it! I've been patient with you no-goods long enough. I'm not open at 2 o'clock for myself, you know. It's all for you. And how do you repay me: Trouble and noise and blood on my floor! I won't have it. Everybody out! Out! Out! We're closed. Closed! Do your killing outside! And don't leave any bodies on the porch!
MARION: Hey you, deaf one! I said out of my place. I don't mean next Easter, I mean now -
INDY: Hello, Marion. Nice to see you, too.
INDY: Nice to see you, too.
MARION: Get up and get out.
INDY: ( getting up ) Take it easy. I'm looking for your ( bitterly ) Well you're two years too late.
MARION: ( bitterly ) Well you're two years too late.
MARION: Go home, Mahdlo. I'll see you What happened?
INDY: What happened?
MARION: Avalanche. Up there. He was digging. What else? He spent his whole life digging. Dragging me all over this rotten earth. For what?
INDY: Do you find him?
MARION: Hell no. He's buried where he was working. Probably preserved real good, too. In the snow.
INDY: Not a bad way to go. Doing what he Don't give me that stuff! What do you know? I'm the one that was left in a bad way. He didn't have a penny. Guess how I lived, Mister Jones. I worked here. And I wasn't the bartender. Finally the guy that owned the joint went crazy. Snow crazy. They took his away screaming. As they dragged him out, he said the place was all mine for life.
MARION: ( vitriolic ) Don't give me that stuff! What do you know? ( she takes a drinks ) I'm the one that was left in a bad way. He didn't have a penny. Guess how I lived, Mister Jones. I worked here. And I wasn't the bartender. ( another swallow ) Finally the guy that owned the joint went crazy. Snow crazy. They took his away screaming. As they dragged him out, he said the place was all mine for life.
MARION: Can you imagine a more evil curse? So far, it's working.
INDY: Why not leave? Go back to the States.
MARION: I'll go back. I'll get there. Not that there's a soul there who knows my name or cares. But I'll go. And when I do, they'll know me. 'Cause I'm going to go back in style. With money. A goddamn lady!
INDY: Where you gonna get it?
MARION: If I knew that, you think I'd still be running this dive?
MARION: I'll tell you something Indy. I've learned to hate you in the last ten years. But somehow, no matter how much I hated you, I always knew that someday you'd come through that door. I never doubted that. Something made is inevitable. Why are you here. now. tonight?
INDY: I need one of the pieces your father
MARION: You son-of-a-bitch! You know what you did to me, to my life? This is your handiwork.
INDY: I never meant to hurt you.
MARION: I was a child!
INDY: You knew what you were doing.
MARION: I was in love.
INDY: I guess that depends on your It was wrong. You knew it.
MARION: It was wrong. You knew it.
INDY: Look, I did what I did. I don't expect you to be happy about it. But maybe we can do each other some good.
MARION: Why start now?
INDY: Shut up and listen for a second. I want that piece your father had. I've got money.
MARION: How much?
INDY: Enough to get you back to the States. Where are his things?
MARION: Gone. I sold it all. It was all junk. The junk he wasted his life on.
INDY: Marion nods.
INDY: ( giving up ) That's too bad.
MARION: You look disappointed. I like that. How's it feel?
MARION: ( nods at his empty glass ) What are you drinking?
INDY: ( refilling his glass ) Real man's drink. Me, I like scotch. And I like bourbon. And vodka and gin. I'm not much for brandy. I'm off that.
MARION: ( refilling his glass ) Real man's drink. Me, I like scotch. And I like bourbon. And vodka and gin. I'm not much for brandy. I'm off that.
INDY: You're a tough broad now, aren't It's no act, pal. This ain't I can only say I'm sorry so many
MARION: It's no act, pal. This ain't I can only say I'm sorry so many
INDY: I can only say I'm sorry so many
MARION: You really have money? You don't look rich. I may be able to locate some of his things. I know who's got them. What do you want?
INDY: A bronze piece, about this size. In the shape of the sun. Probably broken off at the bottom. Has a little hole in it, off-center. Does that sound
INDY: Do you know where it is?
MARION: Maybe. How much?
INDY: Three thousand. American.
MARION: ( negative ) That'll get me back, but not in style. This doodad must be pretty important.
INDY: A huge smile lights up Marion's face.
MARION: I knew it would happen eventually. I knew it. Something had to go my way. I've got to think this out. I'm used to bargaining with yaks.
INDY: Okay, five thousand. That's all I can give you now. I can get you more when you land in the States.
MARION: You word, huh? Just like you said you'd be back last time? That was your word too.
INDY: I'm back, aren't I?
INDY: You can trust me.
MARION: Come back tomorrow.
INDY: Because I said so, that's why. It's about time I called the shots in this relationship.
MARION: Because I said so, that's why. It's about time I called the shots in this relationship.
MARION: Wait a minute. Leave the five thousand You want trust, give some. I want to smell your money.
INDY: I trust you.
MARION: You're an idiot.
INDY: I've heard that.
MARION: Hold it. Come here.
INDY: ( moving back ) Bossy, aren't you?
MARION: That's right. Give me a kiss.
MARION: Get out of my place.
INDY: He's gone. Marion stares after him, thinking. She takes a drink. Then slowly, her hand comes up to loosen the scarf that is draped around her throat. It falls away, revealing her graceful neck above the dipping top of her blouse. Hanging there on a gold chain against her white skin is a sun-shaped golden medallion. The bottom looks broken off. Marion lifts the medallion so she can see it in her hand, then looks thoughtfully after Indy.
BELZIG: Good evening, Fraulein.
MARION: The bar's closed.
BELZIG: We are not thirsty.
MARION: What do you want?
BELZIG: The same thing your friend Dr. Jones wanted. Surely he told you there would be other interested parties.
BELZIG: Ah, the man is nefarious. I hope for your sake he has not yet acquired Why, are you willing to offer more?
MARION: Why, are you willing to offer more?
BELZIG: Almost certainly. Do you still have No. But I know where it is. How 'bout a drink for you and your
MARION: No. But I know where it is. How 'bout a drink for you and your
MARION: How 'bout a drink for you and your
BELZIG: We will stick to the business at hand, Fraulein.
MARION: ( tough ) Fine. Why don't you come back tomorrow when Jones is here and we'll have an
BELZIG: I'm afraid an auction is not possible. Your fire is dying here, Fraulein. Why don't you tell us where the piece is right now?
MARION: Listen, Herr Mac, I don't know who you're used to dealing with, but no one tells me what to do in my place. Americans! You're all alike. Fraulein Ravenwood. I'll show you want I'm used to.
BELZIG: Americans! You're all alike. Fraulein Ravenwood. I'll show you want I'm used to.
MARION: Wait! I can be reasonable -
BELZIG: That time is passed.
MARION: You don't need that. I'll tell you Yes, I know you will.
BELZIG: Yes, I know you will.
INDY: Now everything begins to happen very fast - The Mongolian had just come around the bar at the end opposite the medallion. He dives back to crouch behind the end of the bar, raising his submachine gun. Belzig and the Second German dive behind tables near the bar. The Nepalese is slower to leave Marion, he draws a Luger. Indy's .45 barks and the Nepalese dies spinning against the bar. Indy fires in the direction of the Mongolian. Marion swings up over the top of her bar. Belzig fires at her, but his bullets smash bottles behind the bar and thud into the raven. Marion flattens out on the floor behind the bar as bullets hit above her. She reaches up, snatches the axe handle from where Mahdlo left it, and begins crawling down the length of the bar toward - The Mongolian, who sticks his submachine gun out and fires blindly in Indy's direction. Indy is in a crouch behind a table, trying to get a shot at someone. He doesn't notice in the din and confusion when the door bursts open. An incredible, fearsome GIANT SHERPA, almost seven feet tall, soars in and tackles Indy from behind. The whip flies from Indy's hand as he and the Giant Sherpa roll across the floor, upsetting furniture. The Mongolian, seeing this, stands up confidently. Marion rises behind him and bashes him over the head with the axe handle. He goes down and out. Fire has completely engulfed the curtains and is working across the ceiling on decorative yak skin bunting. A burning fragment drops to the top of the bar, which immediately lights up, fueled by the spilled alcohol. Full whiskey bottles explode like Molotov cocktails. Rolling on the floor, Indy and the Giant Sherpa are fighting for control of Indy's .45. Belzig sees this and shouts to the Second Nazi, who is rising from cover with submachine gun in hand.
BELZIG: Shoot them both!
SECOND NAZI: He's our man!
BELZIG: Do as I say!
MARION: At the end of the bar, the Mongolian has come back to life. He shakes out his head, then reaches inside his coat and pulls out a Mauser pistol. Indy smashes a chair over the head of the Giant Sherpa and the huge creature goes down. The Mongolian points his Mauser through the smoke and flame at Indy. Suddenly, the Mongolian is shot dead. Marion stands beneath her stuffed raven with the Baretta. Indy moves quickly through the flames, his eyes scanning the floor. He picks up his bullwhip and his crumpled felt hat. He peers through the smoke till he spots Marion moving among the burning furniture.
INDY: Let's get out of here!
MARION: Not without that piece you want!
INDY: It's here? Forget it! I want you out of here.
INDY: Forget it! I want you out of here.
MARION: ( pointing )
INDY: Let's go!
MARION: ( looking around ) You burned down my place!
INDY: ( figuratively ) I owe you plenty!
MARION: ( literally ) You owe me plenty!
INDY: ( smiles ) You're something!
MARION: I am something. And I'll tell you exactly what -
MARION: I'm your partner!
FAYAH: ( there is silence ) Why do you forget yourselves?
FAYAH: What is this? Who brought this animal
MARION: Why, thank you. I like you too.
FAYAH: Then it shall be welcome in our house.
MARION: Oh, no! You don't have to have it around if you don't want it -
SALLAH: ( cheerfully ) All of Allah's creatures are welcome here. You please us by letting us please you.
INDY: I knew the Germans would hire you, Sallah. They couldn't have an excavation in the desert without the best digger in Egypt.
SALLAH: All Arabs look alike to them, Indy.
INDY: Tell me about the map room at Tanis.
SALLAH: We found it three days ago. I broke through myself.
INDY: Those Nazis are moving awfully fast.
SALLAH: The Frenchman is helping them.
INDY: Belloq. So he got away from the Indians. This is going to be more interesting that I thought.
SALLAH: I'm afraid this has put the Germans close to finding the Well of the Even Belloq won't be able to find it without that. Can you make anything of those markings? They're nothing I'm familiar with.
INDY: ( indicates the headpiece ) Even Belloq won't be able to find it without that. Can you make anything of those markings? They're nothing I'm familiar with.
SALLAH: ( shakes his head "no" ) But I know someone who might. You can go to see him tomorrow. ( a worried expression ) Indy. something bothers me.
INDY: What is it, my friend? It is the Ark. If it is there, at Tanis. It is not something man was meant to disturb. Death has always surrounded it. It is not of this
SALLAH: It is the Ark. If it is there, at Tanis. It is not something man was meant to disturb. Death has always surrounded it. It is not of this
INDY: Do you really need that monkey?
MARION: I'm surprised at you, Indy. Talking that way about our baby. He's got your looks, too.
INDY: And your brains.
MARION: ( looking disappointed ) Hey! Hey!. where're you going?
INDY: ( dragging Marion on ) He'll be OK. Come on. Come on.
INDY: ( to Marion ) Run! Get out of here!
INDY: Go, dammit! Go!
MARION: EXT. THE SMALL BAZAAR - DAY Indy has heard her. He looks across the square as the basket and its escorts disappear beyond a building. One last Bad Arab rises before him. Indy's whip flashes and the Bad Arab's robe falls down to his ankles. Indy frantically pushes his way through the panicked mass of humanity in the direction the basket has gone.
INDY: INT. ARAB BAR - NIGHT A dark, smoke-filled den on iniquity. The patrons, almost all fearsome Arabs, sit in small shadowy groups around the room. Indy stands at the bar finishing off a fifth of bourbon. He is drunk. The ARAB BARTENDER places a new bottle of expensive bourbon in front of him. Indy eyes is queerly.
ARAB BARTENDER: The gentleman in the corner sent it. He would like you to join him.
INDY: ( doesn't even look ) Too bad. I'm drinking alone.
INDY: Good evening, Dr. Jones.
BELLOQ: Good evening, Dr. Jones.
INDY: I ought to kill you right now.
BELLOQ: It was not I who brought the girl into this dirty business.
BELLOQ: Sit down, please, before you fall down. We can behave as civilized people. I'm afraid it will be your last opportunity.
INDY: Not a very private place for a murder.
BELLOQ: ( looking around ) These Arabs will not interfere in the white man's business. They do not care if we kill each other off. ( takes a sip of wine, refers to it ) Terribly difficult finding a decent vintage here. You were quite vigorous in Shanghai. Unfortunately, our friend the Wild Boar had taken the precaution of making several copies of the piece.
BELLOQ: How odd that is should end this way for us, after so many. stimulating encounters. I almost regret it. Where shall I find a new adversary so close to my own level?
INDY: Try the local sewer.
BELLOQ: I know you despise me. We always hate in others that which we most fear in ourselves. And you and I are very much alike.
INDY: Now you're getting nasty.
BELLOQ: We have always done the same kind of work. Our methods have not differed as much as you pretend. I am a shadowy reflection of you. But it would have taken only a nudge to make you the same as me, to push you out of the You know it to be true! How nice. And how ironic the timing.
BELLOQ: You know it to be true! How nice. And how ironic the timing.
BELLOQ: Do you realize what the Ark is? It's a transmitter. A radio for talking to God! And now it is within my grasp.
INDY: What about your boss, der Fuhrer? I thought he was waiting to take
BELLOQ: ( quieter ) When the time is right. When I am finished with it.
INDY: I hope your friends are patient. Dangerous work, Belloq.
BELLOQ: Yes. Very. You may consider yourself fortunate that your involvement concludes here.
INDY: Tell me, did you get away with the I was lucky to get away with my life. The Hovitos proved quite narrow-minded about the whole matter.
BELLOQ: ( negative ) I was lucky to get away with my life. The Hovitos proved quite narrow-minded about the whole matter.
INDY: You know, if it's God you want to talk to, maybe I can arrange it.
BELLOQ: ( smiles ) You have not changed. But, please, do not reach for your weapon until you are ready to die.
LITTLE SON: Uncle Indy, we have been looking for Come home now, Uncle. Hurry!
LITTLE DAUGHTER: Come home now, Uncle. Hurry!
INDY: Yes. Yes, I'll come now.
BELLOQ: Next time, Indiana Jones, it will take more than children to save you.
SALLAH: I thought we would find you there. Better than the United States Marines, Thanks you. Marion's dead.
INDY: ( nods ) Thanks you. ( grave ) Marion's dead.
SALLAH: Yes, I know. I am sorry. More reason than ever to beat the Life goes on, Indy. There is the proof.
SALLAH: I have much to tell you, Indy.
INDY: And they made the calculation in the map room?
SALLAH: ( nods vigorously ) This morning. Belloq and the boss German, Shliemann. When they came out of the map room, we were given a new spot in which to dig. out away from the camp.
INDY: ( resigned ) The Well of the Souls.
AMIR: Come. Look.
AMIR: This is a warning. not to disturb the Ark of the Covenant.
INDY: Just want I need.
INDY: How 'bout the height of the staff? Did Belloq get it off of there?
AMIR: Yes. it is here.
AMIR: It says it is. ten jamirs high.
SALLAH: About seventy-five inches.
AMIR: Wait! I am not finished.
AMIR: ( reading ) "And one jamir to honor the Hebrew God whose Ark this is." You said their top section was blank. Are you absolutely sure?
INDY: You said their top section was blank. Are you absolutely sure?
INDY: Belloq's staff is seven and a half inches short. They're digging in the wrong spot! A home run, my friend, grand slam! We have a saying - "A little luck is better than much smartness." Indy, pardner, you are very lucky fellow.
SALLAH: ( to Amir ) A home run, my friend, grand slam! ( to Indy ) We have a saying - "A little luck is better than much smartness." Indy, pardner, you are very lucky fellow.
SALLAH: Bad dates.
INDY: My God! They aren't kidding!
SALLAH: There! That is the map room!
INDY: What time does the sun hit the map?
SALLAH: Just after eight.
INDY: We haven't got much time. Where are the Germans digging for the Well of the Souls?
INDY: Okay. Let's go.
JEEP GERMAN: Yes, you. What are you doing there?
JEEP GERMAN: Well bring that rope over here, you
HUNGRY GERMAN: Now, idiot!
HUNGRY GERMAN: Water. Bring us water.
INDY: ( stage whisper ) ( he waits, then louder )
INDY: ( loudest )
HUNGRY GERMAN: Why aren't you at the digs? Come No, dummkopf, I said come!
HUNGRY GERMAN: ( yelling after him, irritated ) No, dummkopf, I said come!
INDY: I though you were dead.
MARION: They were throwing me around like a rag doll.
INDY: They must have switched baskets. Thank god for that! Bless those bastards. Have they hurt you?
MARION: No. Not since I got here. They just asked about you - what you knew. The Frenchman's got the hot's for me. I've been playing that along. Oh, Indy, get me out of here.
MARION: What's wrong?
INDY: ( putting the knife away ) I have to leave you here for a little while. I know where the Ark is. If I take you out of here they'll start combing the place for us.
MARION: ( louder ) Cut me loose!
INDY: Keep your voice down.
MARION: ( screaming ) I said get me out of -
INDY: Look, you don't know how glad I am to see you. And I don't like doing this. But the whole thing will be shot if you don't just sit here quietly. They haven't hurt you in the last twenty-four hours, they aren't going to start now. I'll be back to get you in no time.
INDY: EXT. INDY'S DIG - DAY Omar's truck is parked at the spot just viewed from afar. Dunes rise on either side. One of Omar's men has been posted as a lookout up on a ridge. Everybody else - Indy, Sallah, Omar, and his men - have begun digging for the Wells of the SAME SCENE - NIGHT They continue to dig furiously, all of them drenched in sweat. The hole has grown but this is slow, back-breaking work.
BELLOQ: I cautioned you about being premature with that communiqué to Berlin. Archeology is not an exact science. If does not adhere to time schedules.
SHLIEMANN: The Fuhrer is not a patient man. He demands constant reports and he expects progress. You led me to believe -
BELLOQ: Nothing. I have made no promises. I said only that it looked very favorable. Perhaps the Ark will still be found in an adjoining chamber. Based on the information in our possession, my calculations were correct. Perhaps some bit of evidence still eludes us. Perhaps
GOBLER: Perhaps the girl can help us.
SHLIEMANN: My feeling exactly. She was in possession of the original piece for years. She may know much. If properly motivated.
BELLOQ: I tell you, she knows nothing useful.
SHLIEMANN: I'm surprised to find you squeamish. That is not your reputation. But it needn't concern you. I have the perfect man for this kind of work.
INDY: The Ark must be in that stone case. What's that gray stuff all over the floor -
INDY: Why snakes? Why did it have to be snakes? Anything else.
SALLAH: Asps. Very dangerous.
INDY: Lots of torches. And oil. I want a landing strip down there.
BELLOQ: Believe me, you made a mistake. If you would just give me something to placate them. Some bit of information.
MARION: I swear to you, I know nothing more. I have no loyalty to Jones. He's brought me only trouble.
BELLOQ: I cannot control them.
BELZIG: We meet again, Fraulein.
INDY: Don't touch it! Never touch it!
INDY: Hurry up! Why did it have to be
INDY: What the -
BELLOQ: Why, Dr. Jones, whatever are you doing in such a nasty place?
INDY: Why don't you fellows come down here? I'll show you.
BELLOQ: No thank you, my friend. I think we are all very comfortable up here.
BELLOQ: ( down to Indy ) After all these years, it is most considerate of you to aid me in this
SHLIEMANN: I'm afraid we must be going now, Dr. Jones. Our prize is awaited in Berlin. But I do not wish to leave you down in that awful place. .all alone.
MARION: Don't put me down!
BELLOQ: The girl was mine!
SHLIEMANN: She is of no use to us. Only our mission for the Fuhrer matters.
SHLIEMANN: I wonder sometimes, Monsieur, if you have that clearly in mind.
BELLOQ: Goodbye, mademoiselle. Indiana Jones. adieu!
INDY: Don't panic. There's plenty of time for that later. Wave that at anything that slithers.
MARION: What are you doing?
INDY: Just watch the floor.
MARION: Whatever you're doing, do it faster.
INDY: ( he spots something )
INDY: Come on!
INDY: Stay here!
MARION: ( grabbing him ) Where are you going?
INDY: I'll be back in a minute. We're going through this wall.
INDY: Just keep your eyes open and get ready to run. No matter what happens to me.
MARION: ( panicked ) What do you mean? ( screaming ) Where are you?!
MARION: Indy! Where are you?! Please Lord!
INDY: Come on!
MARION: The snakes. are they here?
INDY: I guess not. I think I'd be dead.
MARION: Do you know where you're going?
INDY: Thank god. Where?
MARION: Thank god. Where?
INDY: They round a corner and flush a covey of bats. Marion screams.
INDY: Don't do that. It scares me.
INDY: WHAT THEY SEE There, coming through the crack in the corner of the next chamber, is white blessed sunlight.
GOBLER: Get is gassed immediately! It has an important cargo to take out!
INDY: When the Ark gets loaded, we're already going to be on that plane.
INDY: Get out! Get out!
SHLIEMANN: Stay with the Ark!
SHLIEMANN: We must get the Ark away from this place immediately!
BELLOQ: We must get the Ark away from this place immediately!
SHLIEMANN: ( to Gobler ) Have it put on the truck. We'll fly out of Cairo.
SHLIEMANN: And Gobler - I want plenty of protection.
SALLAH: Holy smoke, my friends! I am so pleased you are not dead.
MARION: Us too.
SALLAH: ( suddenly remembering ) The Ark! They're taking it on a truck to Cairo.
INDY: Where is it?
INDY: You two get back to Cairo quick and get us transportation to England - a plane, a ship, anything.
MARION: What about you?
INDY: I'm going to get that truck. I'll meet you at Omar's. Be ready for me.
MARION: How are you going to get that truck?
INDY: ( still searching ) I don't know. I'm making this up as I go.
SHLIEMANN: ( yelling ) If anything happens to that Ark, we're all dead men ! The Fuhrer will see to it!
MARION: I have a feeling I'm not the first woman to travel with these pirates. There's a whole wardrobe in there.
INDY: It's lovely.
MARION: I feel like a virgin bride in this.
INDY: That's what you look like.
MARION: ( takes a drink ) There are some things you can recapture in this life, but that isn't one of them.
INDY: What would you like to recapture?
MARION: ( after a long pause ) Nothing. That is the way it is. Did I ever say I was sorry I burned down your tavern?
INDY: Did I ever say I was sorry I burned down your tavern?
MARION: No. Then again, I burned up that You saved my life.
INDY: You saved my life.
MARION: And you saved mine.
INDY: Seems things have worked out kind of That's the way I like them.
MARION: That's the way I like them.
INDY: Maybe we should consider all past accounts closed.
MARION: No. Not yet.
INDY: What else?
MARION: What is it?
INDY: The engines have shut down.
MARION: I'm going to find out.
INDY: I'm going to find out.
MESSENGER PIRATE: Mister Jones! The Captain he say -
INDY: What's wrong?
KATANGA: You have most important friends. Holy shit.
INDY: Holy shit.
KATANGA: ( fast ) I sent my man for you. You and the girl must disappear. We have a place in the hold. Go, my friend!
SHLIEMANN: Take it aboard the Wurrfler!
BELLOQ: And be very careful!
SHLIEMANN: ( to a Sergeant below ) What about Jones?
SERGEANT: Not a trace yet, sir!
KATANGA: Jones is dead.
KATANGA: We killed him. He was of no use to us. The girl, however, has certain value where we are headed. She will bring a very good price. If that cargo you have taken was your goal, then go in peace with it. But leave us the girl. It will reduce our loss on this trip.
SHLIEMANN: Savage. You are not in a position to ask for anything. We will take what we wish and then decide whether or not to blow your ship from the water.
BELLOQ: That girl goes with me. It will be part of my compensation. I'm sure the Fuhrer would approve.
BELLOQ: If she fails to please me, you can do with her as you wish.
SHLIEMANN: What do you think, Captain?
SHLIEMANN: .yet. Let the vermin live. We must be on our way.
INDY: He thinks hard. Inspiration hits just before the water. Indy flips his leather jacket up over his head and holds the jacket out in front of him. His head is hidden by the jacket as he goes under water.
TALL CAPTAIN: ( to Belloq ) The tents have been arranged in accordance with your radioed instructions, sir.
BELLOQ: Good. We must take the Ark there
SHLIEMANN: I am uncomfortable with the thought of this - Jewish ritual. Are you sure it's Let me ask you this - Would you be more comfortable opening the Ark in Berlin - for the Fuhrer - and finding out only then if the sacred pieces of the Covenant are inside? Knowing, only then, whether you have accomplished your mission and obtained the one, true Ark?
BELLOQ: ( playing him ) Let me ask you this - Would you be more comfortable opening the Ark in Berlin - for the Fuhrer - and finding out only then if the sacred pieces of the Covenant are inside? Knowing, only then, whether you have accomplished your mission and obtained the one, true Ark?
INDY: Hold it. One move from anybody and I blow that box back to Moses.
BELLOQ: Jones, your persistence surprises even me. You are going to give mercenaries a bad name.
INDY: What about you? Talked to God yet? Where's the girl?
SHLIEMANN: Doctor Jones, surely you don't think you can escape from this base.
INDY: That depends on how reasonable we're all willing to be. All I want is the girl. We'll keep possession of the Ark only till we've got safe transport to England. Then it's all yours.
SHLIEMANN: If we refuse?
INDY: Then the Ark and some of us are going up in a big bang. I don't think Hitler would like that a bit. Now I don't want to talk about this anymore. Show me that girl in five seconds or -
SHLIEMANN: Jones, this is the second time I have seen you looking very foolish.
INDY: It's a bad habit. I'm trying to break
SHLIEMANN: I'll help you. This time I'll kill you myself.
BELLOQ: No! Not in the presence of the Ark! Take him outside.
BELLOQ: Indiana Jones, I salute you. I am even a little sorry you will miss this moment.
INDY: Thanks. If you talk to Him, tell Him I'm on my way up.
INDY: Marion! Marion, can you hear me?
INDY: Oh, Indy! Thank god you're here.
MARION: Oh, Indy! Thank god you're here.
INDY: Glad I could make it.
INDY: Let's get out of here.
MARION: What about the Ark?
INDY: Are you game?
MARION: Hell yes! We've made it this far.
INDY: ( grins at her ) Okay. Let's do it.
INDY: Whatever you do, don't touch it. Let's put it on the floor.
INDY: We'll go down that side. Shoot anyone who looks at us crosseyed.
SHLIEMANN: Stop them! Kill them!
INDY: ( to Marion ) Get down!
OFFICER: We must cover the drums! Protect them from the bullets!
MARION: Slow it down!
THEIR POV: We're taking this last stretch with them. It's a familiar nightmare. It has to do with a rollercoaster that ends suddenly and disastrously. The shocking brightness of sunlight rushes up to engulf us, blinding us in its glare.
MUSGROVE: You've done your country a great And we trust you found the settlement Good, good. Then I guess that about does it.
EATON: And we trust you found the settlement Good, good. Then I guess that about does it.
MARION: Good, good. Then I guess that about does it.
EATON: Good, good. Then I guess that about does it.
BRODY: When can we have the Ark?
EATON: I thought we answered that. It's someplace very safe -
INDY: ( heated ) That's a powerful force. Research should be done -
EATON: Oh, it will be, Dr. Jones, I assure you. We have top men working on it right now.
INDY: Top men.
EATON: Top men.
INDY: We may be able to help.
EATON: We appreciate that. And we won't hesitate to call on you.
MUSGROVE: ( dismissing them ) Thank you all. Thank you again.
MARION: Well they aren't going to tell you, so why don't you just forget it. I'd think you'd had enough of that damn Ark. Just put your mind on something
INDY: Yeah, like what?
INDY: It's not the Ark. but it'll have to do.
TOP SECRET: ARMY INTEL. #9906753
THE END: Writers : George Lucas Philip Kaufman Lawrence Kasda
