INSIDIOUS: Written by Leigh Whannell
LAOZI: FADE IN
FADE IN: INT. DARKENED BEDROOM - NIGHT A spherical black monolith rises up from a white surface. white like the moon. In the darkness, the towers metal skin is barely visible. We ROTATE AROUND, revealing the tower to actually be a LAMP not rising up from a surface, but hanging down from a white ceiling. The bulb unlit. Directly below the lamp is the very definition of innocence - a sleeping child. Chest rising and falling with each breath. We HOVER over the young boy.watching him. A blanket emblazoned with dinosaurs is draped across his limbs. His mouth is slack, eyelids twitching to dreams unseen. The truly deep sleep that an adult can only wish for. We move away from him, exploring the dark room. Strewn with toys. The door is slightly ajar. We float through it into
WOMAN: Let me in.
RENAI: What are you doing up, kiddo?
DALTON: I don't like my room.
RENAI: You'll get used to it. It's only your first night. He climbs into her lap. She bites on his ear playfully.
DALTON: What are you looking at?
RENAI: Just some photos.
DALTON: What photos? She hefts another album from the box, prying it open. A photo of a grinning young girl greets them, hair in pigtails.
RENAI: Do you know who that is?
DALTON: That's me.
RENAI: That's me.
DALTON: It doesn't look like you.
RENAI: I know. I'm so happy there. But it's me. When I was your age. I was a kid once too, you know.
DALTON: No, you weren't. Renai bursts out laughing. She is famous for her big laugh.
RENAI: Thanks. Maybe you're right.I don't remember being this person at all. I hope she smiled like that all the time, whoever she was.
DALTON: I don't wanna grow old.
RENAI: Well, it starts happening to us from the moment we're born. She points to the hands on the grandfather clock.
DALTON: He smells like smoke.
RENAI: Yeah.good memory. He did smoke that god awful pipe, didn't he?
DALTON: Show me a picture of dad when he was a little kid.
RENAI: I don't even know if we have any. He's hopeless with keeping photos.
DALTON: Show me a picture of me when I was a little kid.
RENAI: Your pictures are all in the computer. Nobody keeps photo albums like this anymore, they're ancient relics. They should. I like being able to touch something, instead of it floating around in cyber world. If the laptop breaks, your whole existence is erased.
DALTON: What was I like when I was a little kid?
RENAI: You are a little kid. She kisses him on the forehead and stares into his eyes.
RENAI: ( INTO PHONE )
FOSTER: I need a bowl, mom. Renai rips open a box, rifling through newspaper, phone wedged against her shoulder. She holds out a cup, flustered.
RENAI: Billing department.
FOSTER: It's too small.
RENAI: Make it work.
JOSH: ( Michael Corleone voice ) Every time I think I've pulled you out.you grow back in. He plucks it out, wincing melodramatically.
RENAI: Well, I'd like to keep the old number if I could.
JOSH: ( TO FOSTER )
RENAI: ( INTO PHONE )
JOSH: ( TO RENAI )
RENAI: You woke me up.
JOSH: What do you mean?
RENAI: You were snoring.
JOSH: No I wasn't.
RENAI: Yes you were.
JOSH: I don't snore.
RENAI: Yes you do.
JOSH: My father snored. I do not snore.
RENAI: How would you know what you do? You're asleep. Renai marches out of the room. Dalton's game unit beeps loudly and he pumps his fist.
DALTON: Yes! I made it to the last level! Ever amiable, Josh high five's his son.
JOSH: Good one, champ.
RENAI: Where are my bleeping pills?
JOSH: What the heck is this? Wax?!
RENAI: Let me get this straight - we have no actual fruit but we have wax That is dangerous. It could kill one of our kids.
JOSH: Let me get this straight - we have no actual fruit but we have wax That is dangerous. It could kill one of our kids.
RENAI: That is dangerous. It could kill one of our kids.
JOSH: That is dangerous. It could kill one of our kids.
RENAI: Where are my pills, Josh?
JOSH: Probably where you left them, She finds them on the counter, snatching them up.
RENAI: That's not where I left them.
DALTON: Mom, I need my lunch.
RENAI: Oh, geez. Look, just.take last night's dinner.
DALTON: Sushi? Aw, that's weirdo food.
RENAI: It's all we have. Just for today, Check it first, Dalton. It's probably made out of Styrofoam.
JOSH: Check it first, Dalton. It's probably made out of Styrofoam.
RENAI: ( TO DALTON )
DALTON: I didn't touch your books. Josh streaks past, kissing Renai on the cheek.
JOSH: I gotta go.
RENAI: Are you taking the boys to school?
JOSH: No time.
RENAI: Well can you pick them up after Not today.
JOSH: Not today.
RENAI: But I have stuff I wanted to. She trails off. He's gone. Foster BURPS. Loudly.
FOSTER: Can I have another cup, mom?
JOSH: Alanso, please sit down.
ALANSO: No entiendo.
JOSH: Siéntate, por favor. Alanso takes a seat. Josh is having trouble getting control.
TERI: You better all shut up. She commands respect. They do. Except for one kid.
JOSH: Thank you, Teri. Today we are going to talk about Darwin. It's a city in Australia, but it's also the last name of which famous naturalist?
JOSH: Correct. Does anybody know what he is famous for?
JOSH: Half right. He wrote a seminal book that explained his theories on natural selection, and how the different species on this planet - including humans - evolved.
ALANSO: I know I didn't evolve from no monkey. Shit.
JOSH: Humans actually have a lot in common with monkeys, or more specifically, chimpanzees.
ALANSO: Maybe you do, but I was created in the image of my Dios. He takes a gold cross hanging on a necklace out of his shirt, kissing it and holding it up. That gets another laugh.
JOSH: I respect your right to believe that, Alanso. But I want to give you all possible theories. I want this class to go out into the world with an informed opinion.
ALANSO: The theory is incorrect, Mr. Lambert.
JOSH: How can it be incorrect? It's a theory. A scientific theory.
ALANSO: Yeah, well, science is bullshit. We didn't get here cos of no test-tubes.
JOSH: Alanso, if you keep talking like that I'm going to ask you to visit the principal.
ALANSO: He gets up and leaves as the class JEERS and BOOS.
RENAI: ( SINGING )
JOSH: Look at this. Nice job. Foster bolts over and crashes into his dads legs, hugging him.
RENAI: Josh, where's the box of my lamps?
JOSH: I don't know. They should be here. We packed them up.
RENAI: Yeah, I packed them. They're not here.
JOSH: I remember the movers bringing them in and putting them right there.
RENAI: ( PASSIVE AGGRESSIVE )
RENAI: Dalton? Where are you? He doesn't answer. Just keeps screaming.
RENAI: Dalton is crumpled at the bottom of the steps, sobbing, his red cape gathered around him. Renai flicks the light on. Her and Josh scamper down the steps, propping Dalton up.
JOSH: What happened?
DALTON: I fell.
RENAI: Dalton, you have to be careful. You shouldn't be coming down here in the dark.
JOSH: Where do you hurt the most?
DALTON: My knee and my head. I can't stand Josh lifts him to his feet. A severely grazed knee is dotted with blood. He's okay.
JOSH: You scared us, champ. Josh carries him up the stairs as he sucks in sobs. Renai glances around the basement, her eyes landing on the lone object that resides in it.
JOSH: You're lucky you don't need stitches.
RENAI: If I catch you falling down the stairs again I'm gonna break your That doesn't make sense. There are dozens of pictures tacked to the wall, all drawn by Dalton. Josh taps one; a drawing of Dalton flying through the night sky, wearing his cape.
DALTON: That doesn't make sense. There are dozens of pictures tacked to the wall, all drawn by Dalton. Josh taps one; a drawing of Dalton flying through the night sky, wearing his cape.
RENAI: Sleep tight, honey. They wave goodbye and turn out the light.
JOSH: We've gotta lock that door.
RENAI: He's such a boy. He goes off exploring. Sometimes I wanna keep him on one of those child leashes.
JOSH: Why bother with a child leash? I'll stop at the pet store tomorrow.
RENAI: I'm sorry I was pissy when you got home. I was trying to work on a song today and then Cali woke up and wouldn't stop crying.
JOSH: I didn't even notice.
RENAI: I feel guilty for wanting my own It's normal to want your own time.
JOSH: It's normal to want your own time.
RENAI: Is it? My mother gave up everything for me. I keep waiting for the completely selfless parent gene to kick in, but I'm exactly the same person I was when I was 22, only now I'm married with kids.
JOSH: You're a great mother.
RENAI: No, I'm not. They like you so much better than me.
JOSH: That's not true.
RENAI: You're the cool dad who comes home with presents and I'm the one who yells at them all day.
JOSH: Now you're being crazy. They love you. At least you get to connect with them. I work so much.
RENAI: Believe me, you're their hero. They try to play us off against each other. They're master manipulators. I guess they really are my kids. Josh laughs. A lull settles over them.
JOSH: Is this so bad? She doesn't answer. They sit in silence for a long beat.
RENAI: Thank you for letting me take some time off to work on my music again.
JOSH: We'll get by. I want you to do it.
RENAI: There's a couple of songs.I mean not all of them, but there's a couple of them that I think are really good. And I think, maybe I could do something with them.
JOSH: I love all your songs. They kiss.
RENAI: Foster, sit down honey. She whips a look around.
JOSH: Time to get up, my man. Come on. Nothing from Dalton. He doesn't even stir. Josh rolls his eyes and walks in. Nudges Dalton with his knee.
DR. SERCARZ: Okay.as of yet, our tests have not drawn any conclusive answers for you. Repeated blood and CSF cultures are normal, making an infective origin highly unlikely. Tests for Lyme disease and repeated polymerase chain reaction are negative. Systemic vasculitis was ruled out. Dalton remains in an areactive coma without focal signs or abnormal brainstem reflexes. Josh and Renai struggle to follow the cold, multi-syllable medical terminology.like stranded tourists keeping up with a foreign language.
JOSH: So.there's no brain damage or.?
DR. SERCARZ: None that we've detected. Technically, he's in a coma. He doesn't respond to stimuli, he has no sleep-wake cycle, but there's no brain trauma or infection. His scans are normal. To be honest, I've never seen anything like it.
JOSH: That fall he took.I mean, it looked like he hit his head pretty hard.
DR. SERCARZ: We definitely exhausted that possibility, but it was always doubtful. The cut was superficial, there wasn't even a skull fracture.
RENAI: He can't just not wake up.there's got to be something. Renai sobs, tears streaming down her face. Josh looks like a deer in the headlights. Stunned dumb. Sercarz clears his throat. This part of the job isn't his DR. SERCARZ I'm sorry.
DR. SERCARZ: I'm sorry.
JOSH: So what do we do now? Does he stay here?
DR. SERCARZ: We'll conduct some further testing, but beyond that.I really don't know.
ADELE: Are you having any more trouble with the feeding tube? Renai looks broken, the life drained from her. A wilted flower. She shakes her head, her voice a low rasp.
RENAI: ( BARELY AUDIBLE )
ADELE: Alright, well I'll be back soon. I'll bring some new books. You're probably sick of the ones you have.
RENAI: Did he respond to any of the tests? Adele pauses.
ADELE: No.no, he didn't. But we have to give it time. I've seen coma patients with a much longer inactivity time suddenly start making noises.
RENAI: He's not in a coma, remember? They don't know what to call it. They don't know what to do with him so they've given up.
ADELE: No, they haven't. We're going to figure it out. Adele hugs her, then exits. Renai slumps down on a chair next to her son. The heart rate monitor pings. Dalton is as still as a statue.
VOICE: ( FROM MONITOR )
NOOOOOOOOOOOO!!!!!!: Renai drops the baby monitor, leaping out of her skin at the sound of the scream. Nerves fried. The monitor smashes on the floor. All is quiet. Renai moves to the door, staring down the corridor at the door to Cali's nursery. It is open only a crack. She hears crying. Cali is crying. We follow her as she bolts towards the nursery, smashing through the door, eyes filled with terror, seeing INT. NURSERY - CONTINUOUS Renai stalks into the room. The room is empty, save for Cali, crying in her crib. Renai's eyes land on the closet.
CALI: Josh looks up, smiling. Amazed.
JOSH: She said dad. Neither Renai nor Foster even look up.
RENAI: What's this?
FOSTER: An award.
RENAI: That's today's date. You got this Foster nods meekly.
FOSTER: I'm scared, mom.
RENAI: Scared of what?
FOSTER: Renai sits back down.
RENAI: We're all scared. It's normal to be scared for him. But we can't give up
FOSTER: Why do I have to sleep so close to him? Can't I change rooms?
RENAI: Why would you wanna change rooms? Foster swallows.
FOSTER: I don't know. Renai stares at her son. She kisses him again.
RENAI: Your brother needs you. Goodnight INT. MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT Josh lies in bed, reading Foster's award. Renai is beside him.
RENAI: Something happened today. I didn't want to tell you in front of Foster.
JOSH: I heard something coming from Cali's room. A man's voice. On the baby monitor.it scared the hell outta me. I went in there and no one was there.
RENAI: I heard something coming from Cali's room. A man's voice. On the baby monitor.it scared the hell outta me. I went in there and no one was there.
JOSH: Could it have been interference?
RENAI: I don't know. It was so clear. I was sitting at the piano and I heard this.whispering on the baby monitor. So I held my ear up to it
JOSH: Who the hell is that? Josh knows it's his job to check, but he doesn't want to.
JOSH: Hello? Who's there? Only the wind replies. He aims the flashlight at the glass, shining it into the thick darkness. There is no one on the front step. Josh presses the flashlight against the window, arcing the beam across his front garden. Leans in close to the glass.
AND THEN: Nothing. There's no one there. He makes sure the door is locked, then flips open a security system panel on the wall, pecking at the buttons on it.
RENAI: Who was it, Josh? Josh appears at the opposite end of the hallway.
JOSH: What did you say? Renai SCREAMS as the silhouette recedes into the shadows.
RENAI: There's someone in there! She RUNS towards Josh.
SHRIEEEEEEEEEEEKKKK!!!!!! SHRIEEEEEEEEEEEEEEK!!!!!: The house alarm screams to deafening life, shaving a few years off Josh's life in the process. He JOLTS, whipping Josh charges down the hall into the
JOSH: ( TO RENAI )
RENAI: Josh! The laundry!
SECURITY OFFICER: There's no one in there, it's all clear. If someone was there, they're gone now.
RENAI: I saw somebody.
SECURITY OFFICER: Maybe it was a shadow.?
RENAI: No. It wasn't a shadow, it was a man. He was tall, and he long, greasy hair. He was wearing a grey jacket. He looked right at me.
SECURITY OFFICER: Well, like I said.he's gone now. Renai looks to the others. Sees only disbelieving faces.
PHOTOGRAPHER: Okay, face the front ladies and gentlemen.come on.hold still. ( muttering to himself ) I'm trying to record the peak of your pathetic lives here. Josh stands off to the side, lost in his own thoughts. Tired.
JOSH: Could you step in so that we can take the photo? Quickly please.
PHOTOGRAPHER: Could you step in so that we can take the photo? Quickly please.
JOSH: Just take it without me.
PHOTOGRAPHER: We need you in the photo, sir.
JOSH: No, you don't. Just take the damn photo without me, okay? The class settles down, shocked by the outburst. Chastened, the photographer turns to the class, gripping the camera I can't believe this is my life. ( beat; to class ) Ready kids? Say asshole teacher!
PHOTOGRAPHER: I can't believe this is my life. ( beat; to class ) Ready kids? Say asshole teacher!
JOSH: I spend so much time in the office, I hear things. I heard about your son. I'm sorry.
ALANSO: I spend so much time in the office, I hear things. I heard about your son. I'm sorry.
JOSH: Thank you, Alanso.
ALANSO: Times like these.people realize that science doesn't have all the answers. There is a higher force at I wish I had your belief. Things would be a lot simpler.
JOSH: I wish I had your belief. Things would be a lot simpler.
ALANSO: Things are simple. You just can't see it. Put your faith in Him. He places his gold cross necklace in Josh's hand, then leaves. Josh watches him go, then takes out his cell phone.
JOSH: ( INTO PHONE )
JOSH: The men all walked down to the waters edge.and they stood there and asked the beast to come forth. And the beast roared back "No!". And so they dived in after it.
KELLY: You okay?
RENAI: I was going to head off for an hour or so. Are you alright here?
KELLY: I was going to head off for an hour or so. Are you alright here?
RENAI: Of course. Anything from Dalton?
KELLY: No. I'm sorry. Renai nods. Her eyes brim with tears. The cracks are showing.
RENAI: I won't, I just.I haven't slept much the last couple of nights. I feel like the universe is trying to see how far I can bend before I The universe picked a fight with the wrong chick.
KELLY: The universe picked a fight with the wrong chick.
RENAI: Thanks, Kelly. You're a saint.
KELLY: No, I'm not. I'm doing my job. I chose to be here. You didn't choose any of this. You're the strong one.
JOSH: What are you doing up?
RENAI: It's midnight, Josh.
JOSH: When did you start smoking?
RENAI: You've been coming home late every single night. You've never had to do that in all of the years you've been at the school. Now all of a sudden you have to stay back late?
JOSH: I don't like it either, but I'm grading tests. What choice do I have? We've gotta pay Dalton's bills.
RENAI: Your mother is paying Dalton's bills, Josh. I know because she reminds me every chance she gets.
JOSH: Jesus, I can't win with you. That's my son in there too, not just yours! He paces, the anger sobering him.
RENAI: You're projecting that onto me. You've written an entire story about I'm how I'm feeling without once asking me how I'm feeling.
JOSH: I don't need to ask. I know you.
RENAI: I am losing my mind here in this house, Josh. I'm scared and I need you and you're not here. Where are I told you, I'm grading tests.
JOSH: I told you, I'm grading tests.
RENAI: I don't mean that. I mean you're not here. With me. In this situation. You're avoiding it, like you do anything stressful, whether it's this or a parking ticket.
JOSH: Christ, I should have stayed at the There you go again. Renai stands up and walks inside the house. The door closes.
RENAI: There you go again. Renai stands up and walks inside the house. The door closes.
RENAI: She glances back at the window.
MAN: DON'T YOU FUCKING DARE! Renai lets out a SHRIEK of terror that could strip paint. A cry from the depths of her soul. She propels herself backward, falling off the bed and scrambling back into the corner. Josh CHARGES into the room, flicking on the light seeing only Renai, huddled in the corner, screaming.
JOSH: What is it? What is it?! Renai is incoherent. She cannot stop screaming. Josh grabs her by the shoulders.
RENAI: The man he was there he tried to there was a man there!!! Foster runs into the room, visibly terrified. He sees his mother and instantly begins crying. He runs to his dad, holding onto his leg. In the background, Cali begins crying, her screams contributing to an overwhelming din.
JOSH: There's no one here.
RENAI: I saw somebody!
JOSH: There's no one here.
RENAI: Don't you dare not believe me!
JOSH: I believe you, okay? I just don't know what you want me to do.
RENAI: I want you to tell me that we can leave this house. I will not spend one more night here. I wanna leave, I wanna go!
FOSTER: I don't want the man to get me. The realization that her child is terrified quiets Renai. All is suddenly silent, save for the cries of Cali in the background. Josh holds his son tight.
JOSH: You're okay, buddy. I've got you. He and Renai exchange a look.
RENAI: I'm sorry.
JOSH: To move now would be.we would have to rent somewhere. It's not
RENAI: Please, Josh. An agreement passes between them.
RENAI: Lorraine, you shouldn't have to do any of this. Sit down.
LORRAINE: Nonsense. I'm perfectly capable of putting a few things away. I did it for Josh his whole life. He never was good with tidying up.
RENAI: I know, but I just feel so bad.
LORRAINE: I think it's you who should be sitting down by the looks of it. She boosts a photo frame from one of the boxes. It is a portrait of Renai, Dalton, Foster and Josh. In happier times. Lorraine seems taken aback by it.
RENAI: I can't believe we're doing all this again, that's what I can't believe. ( beat; looks at her ) I know you think I'm crazy. Lorraine stops unpacking and fixes Renai with a stare. They've never really gotten along before. Adversity has brought about a truce.
LORRAINE: Nobody - not me, not anybody - knows what you're going through right now. Whatever you have to do to get through it, do it. And never apologize for it. Renai hugs her. It's a new thing for them and a bit awkward.
RENAI: We just wanna say.thank you so much. For helping us out with this, doctor. We can't tell you how much it means to have you involved.
DR. TRIMBLE: I'm glad to help.
JOSH: So.if you're the top of the food chain with this stuff, where does that leave us?
DR. TRIMBLE: I don't know. There is a research team in Boston who specialize in a new form of treatment. They try to stimulate the patients brain with electric pulses. It has a good success rate with victims of brain injury. We could try that.
RENAI: So there's hope?
DR. TRIMBLE: There are more things we can try.
TINY TIM: ( FROM RECORD )
THEN: She pivots her head towards the darkened hallway. There, she sees a child, hidden in shadow, standing in the hall. Staring at her. Renai doesn't move. Doesn't breathe. And then suddenly, the child turns and runs down the hall, disappearing into Dalton's bedroom.
SHE: She pivots her head towards the darkened hallway. There, she sees a child, hidden in shadow, standing in the hall. Staring at her. Renai doesn't move. Doesn't breathe. And then suddenly, the child turns and runs down the hall, disappearing into Dalton's bedroom.
HEARS: She pivots her head towards the darkened hallway. There, she sees a child, hidden in shadow, standing in the hall. Staring at her. Renai doesn't move. Doesn't breathe. And then suddenly, the child turns and runs down the hall, disappearing into Dalton's bedroom.
RENAI: Oh my God, Dalton.no. Summoning every ounce of strength, Renai troops down the hall towards Dalton's room.
BANG!!!: BA G
BA G: The cabinet doors EXPLODE open as the child bursts out, giggling. Only we see that it is not a child. It is a DWARF. A man in child's clothing. The dwarf runs past Renai as she LEAPS back. He runs out of the room, giggling. All is quiet again. Renai gets up, unsure of what to do. Numb with terror. SUDDENLY the record pitches back to life, the volume startling. Renai JOLTS, falling backwards.
NED: Josh.didn't see you there.
JOSH: Sorry to scare you.
NED: What are you up to this late? Josh holds up his flask of whisky. He's a bit soused.
JOSH: Where did all the bartenders who listen to your troubles go, Ned? Ned nods sagely. He sets down his mop and grabs a chair, sitting in front of Josh with a sigh. He takes the flask.
NED: Never drink alone. If you take the dirty jokes out of drunkenness, all you're left with is the self loathing. He downs a hit from the flask, then hands it back.
JOSH: I don't need whisky for that.
NED: Bah. You people think too much. Used to be, if life threw a shitstorm at you, you'd grab the nearest umbrella. Your generation would spend a day googling what brand to buy. Josh laughs despite himself.
JOSH: I probably would too. ( beat; takes a drink ) It's funny, I've always known I was the type of person that things didn't happen to. I made peace with it. I thought to myself, it's okay - I'll never win the lottery or climb Mount Everest.but I'll never get a rare tropical blood disease either. It works out.
NED: Things happen to everybody. Even to good people like you. And they're gonna keep happening the older you get, believe me. No use sittin' in the dark drinkin' over it. Go home. Be with your wife. Tell her your what's on your mind. He takes the flask and has another swig.
JOSH: This is the first line of a joke. Guy comes home to find his wife with a priest. Father Nathanson stands, as does Renai.
RENAI: Josh, this is Liam Nathanson. A very old friend of mine.
FATHER NATHANSON: Nice to meet you. I've heard a lot about you.
JOSH: Can't say I've heard the same, Liam. At least I know you're not sleeping with her.
JOSH: What is going on here?
FATHER NATHANSON: I should be going. Thank you so much for the tea.
RENAI: Thanks, Liam. He clears his throat and exits, quickly and quietly.
JOSH: Okay, would anyone mind telling me what the hell is going on here?
LORRAINE: Please sit down, Joshua.
JOSH: "Joshua?" Oh Jesus.
LORRAINE: Sit down.
JOSH: The melodramatic way in which you two are conducting yourselves right now is scaring the shit out of me, so just tell me what's wrong.
LORRAINE: Nothing is wrong. We want to talk.
JOSH: Nobody asks you to sit down unless something is wrong. If a doctor calls you into his office and asks you to sit down, you're fucked.
RENAI: There's no use, Lorraine. He's been I have not been drinking. Not enough that we can't talk to each other, Renai. And don't judge me in that bitchy tone, okay?
JOSH: I have not been drinking. Not enough that we can't talk to each other, Renai. And don't judge me in that bitchy tone, okay?
RENAI: ( TO LORRAINE )
JOSH: Christ. You're acting like I'm some lush who comes home and beats you with a belt. At least I'm speaking to you. You suddenly have to speak to a priest. Or my mother who, up until a couple of weeks ago, you couldn't stand.
RENAI: You're an asshole.
LORRAINE: Your wife needs you. Now sit down and listen to her. I won't ask you again.
RENAI: This.thing that was in the other house. It followed us. Josh shifts in his seat. Agitated.
LORRAINE: Let her speak.
RENAI: I saw someone again today. In the house. It looked like a young boy. I followed it into Dalton's room. but it wasn't a child.
JOSH: So.what? You called in a priest to get rid of it?
RENAI: I didn't know what else to do.
JOSH: Are you kidding me?
RENAI: No. It was mine.
JOSH: You've never been to a church in your life. Now you're inviting a priest into our home? I feel like I don't even know you right now.
RENAI: I'm scared.
JOSH: This is a fantasy, and you need a therapist, not a member of the I told you.
RENAI: ( TO LORRAINE )
LORRAINE: What's happening to Renai is real. I've seen it for myself.
LORRAINE: I can still hear that voice. She looks up at Josh - and SCREAMS! Over Josh's shoulder, crouched down behind the couch and peeking up over the armrest at Lorraine, is a DIABOLICAL FIGURE. His face is PURE RED with smeared lipstick. His scalp is completely bald, yet tufts of hair dangle above his ears. Other than his face, his skin is charcoal black. Lorraine recoils back, utterly petrified.
JOSH: What is it? Lorraine stares eerily into his eyes. Frozen.
LORRAINE: He's here. Renai looks to Josh, who is at a total loss. She is crying.
RENAI: Help us. His anger fades and he steps over and takes her in his arms.
JOSH: I don't know how.
LORRAINE: I know somebody who can help.if you're willing to ask for it.
SPECS: So you must be Josh?
JOSH: That wasn't psychic. Lorraine told me your name.
SPECS: That wasn't psychic. Lorraine told me your name.
JOSH: I'm Specs. ( beat; spooky voice ) I'm here to solve your problem. I'm just kidding with the voice. We take this very seriously.
SPECS: I'm Specs. ( beat; spooky voice ) I'm here to solve your problem. I'm just kidding with the voice. We take this very seriously.
RENAI: So is Elise coming or.?
SPECS: She won't be joining us yet. Usually we handle all the background stuff, then she gets involved when we have the facts.
TUCKER: Helps weed out the nutjobs.
RENAI: This is a little uncomfortable. Speaking for myself. I'm not used to this kind of stuff.
JOSH: This is a little uncomfortable. Speaking for myself. I'm not used to this kind of stuff.
SPECS: We understand completely. Ninety six per cent of the people we deal with have had no experience with this type of phenomena before. He takes out a notepad and pen.
RENAI: My assistant will check different areas of the house for electrical anomalies. I'll get him started. Tucker, would you follow me?
SPECS: My assistant will check different areas of the house for electrical anomalies. I'll get him started. Tucker, would you follow me?
TUCKER: Could you not eat that in front of the clients?
SPECS: Could you not eat that in front of the clients?
TUCKER: Finish it in here. This industry gets laughed at enough as it is.
SPECS: Finish it in here. This industry gets laughed at enough as it is.
SPECS: Do you or any of your children suffer from epilepsy or autism?
RENAI: No. I mean, our son.
SPECS: Right. I heard about this from Lorraine. He is in a coma, the cause of which is unknown?
RENAI: Do either of you habitually use drugs or alcohol?
SPECS: Do either of you habitually use drugs or alcohol?
RENAI: No drugs at all?
SPECS: No drugs at all?
RENAI: I take anti-depressants sometimes.
SPECS: Do you have a history of clinical Not a history. I've had bouts of it. In the past. Renai is uncomfortable. Specs makes a note. The camera beeps.
RENAI: Not a history. I've had bouts of it. In the past. Renai is uncomfortable. Specs makes a note. The camera beeps.
SPECS: Tucker, could you check the camera?
SPECS: Whenever you're ready then. A long beat. Tucker finally enters, adjusts the camera.
TUCKER: ( to Renai and Josh ) He handles administration, I handle technical. It's an even split. He couldn't change a light bulb and I'm no good with paperwork. It bores me Specs clears his throat, peeved. Continues.
SPECS: Do you have any history of sexual abuse in the family?
JOSH: ( BEAT )
SPECS: Nine times out of ten, when someone comes to us with a problem like this, it's because of an inward cause within the family unit.not a physical force outside of it.
JOSH: What is that?
TUCKER: Tri-field meter. It measures DC fields and the natural electro magnetic environment.
SPECS: Sometimes old wiring can leak into the atmosphere. It can cause hallucinations, changes in energy.
TUCKER: Yeah. It's a little more complicated than that, but, you know, you get the general idea.
SPECS: It's basically that.
TUCKER: Not really, but whatever.
SPECS: ( TO JOSH )
TUCKER: It's very relevant, but it's all INT. CORRIDOR, NEW HOUSE - LATER Tucker edges into the corridor. He switches out the light, then takes what looks like a modified VIEW-MASTER TOY out of his shoulder bag, holding it up to his eyes. He stalks down the corridor with it. All is quiet.
SPECS: Epilepsy in one of the children mostly. It's very common. If we approach things academically, it lets us find the genuinely interesting cases. Tucker backs into the room. Very slowly. He is afraid.
TUCKER: I think we can call Elise now.
JOSH: Mrs. Rainier?
ELISE: No, my mother couldn't come, it's just me. Elise. You must be Lorraine's son? You've grown since I last saw you.
JOSH: Last saw me?
ELISE: Your mother and I have been friends for a long time.
RENAI: Hi. I'm Renai.
ELISE: Pleased to meet you. I'm Elise. Elise takes her hat off and scans the room, taking a deep breath. Tucker jabbers, eager to please.
TUCKER: We took Tri-field and EMF readings of the whole house. All the wiring, alarm clocks, radios, toasters, TV, record player, fuse box. Nothing went off the charts.
ELISE: And the previous home? Tucker and Specs look at each other. Oh shit.
SPECS: Tucker hadn't monitored that yet. I could jump on that this afternoon if you like? Make up for lost time.
TUCKER: Yeah, but who would work the equipment? I'll need to be there. You know what, don't even sweat it. I'll make myself available.
ELISE: No, that's fine, gentlemen. She stares up at the ceiling, as if seeing something they can't.
RENAI: Yes. Of course.
ELISE: Steven, do you have your sketchbook? Specs hurriedly fishes a sketchbook and pencil out of his bag.
SPECS: Yes, I do. Yes, I do. Yes, yes. I Good. We're going to need it.
ELISE: Good. We're going to need it.
RENAI: What is it for?
SPECS: She tells me what she sees and I draw it. It's the most important part of her process.
TUCKER: His drawings and my photos comprise her visual records.
SPECS: Especially the drawings.
TUCKER: That's debatable.
SPECS: It's not debatable.
TUCKER: It is, but whatever.
SPECS: Onwards and upwards. Find me a ghost. Elise begins walking through the house. Tucker and Specs trail her and we FOLLOW THEM into the
RENAI: What is it?
ELISE: There is something here.
TUCKER: This is where I saw it. Elise calmly mutters something to Specs in a low voice, but we have trouble hearing it - only snatches of key words.
ELISE: .long hair.grey dress.her eyes are. He immediately starts sketching. His line drawings are fast but detailed. Impressive. He outlines the wall, the ceiling lamp, the grandfather And then something else. Two young women. Standing next to the grandfather clock, dressed in Amish garb. Even in the roughness of the drawing, we can make out their pleading eyes and pale skin. Tucker takes out a camera, snaps some shots. Josh and Renai step forward, seeing the sketch. Elise keeps moving, heading straight for one door in particular. She stops, running her hand over the wood.
JOSH: Go ahead.
ELISE: Maybe you could wait back there? Josh and Renai hug each other. Tucker lowers the camera. Elise grips the door handle and turns it.
ELISE: Leave the lights off. Elise steps closer to Dalton. She runs her hands over his prone body. She shivers as she does. A ripple of fear passes through her. Her breath quickens. Slowly.very very slowly .she gazes up at a corner of the ceiling. Her eyes WIDEN and the look on her face
SHOULD: T E R R O R. Her arm raises up, her finger extending and pointing at the corner she is glaring at.
BE: T E R R O R. Her arm raises up, her finger extending and pointing at the corner she is glaring at.
ABSOLUTE: T E R R O R. Her arm raises up, her finger extending and pointing at the corner she is glaring at.
RENAI: What is it? What do you see? Elise cups her hand over her mouth and whispers to Specs, keeping her eyes GLUED to the far corner of the ceiling. We cannot hear what she is whispering. Hand shaking, Specs feverishly starts to sketch. We cannot see what he is drawing.
ELISE: I'm not sure if you are ready to hear this yet.but unfortunately I can't waste any time easing you into it. There is no time left. She takes a deep breath, preparing herself.
RENAI: Go on.
ELISE: Your son.is not in a coma. His physical body is here, but his spiritual body is not.
RENAI: I don't understand.
ELISE: Have you ever heard of astral Out of body experiences? Elise nods.
RENAI: Out of body experiences? Elise nods.
ELISE: I call them travellers. These are people with the ability to leave their physical body and travel to different places in an astral form. To some degree, we all have the ability to do it.but most of us subconsciously suppress it or don't know how to access it. Josh shakes his head, agitated. Renai leans forward, desperate for an answer to her terror.
RENAI: Lost? Lost where? Elise gazes up at the ceiling, as if looking into another world.
ELISE: In The Further.
RENAI: What do you mean?
ELISE: The Further is that place beyond our perception, beyond our understanding of the physical world that we can see and touch. It is a place without clocks or measurements, without past or future.an infinite realm that holds all of our dreams.and all of our nightmares. She turns to look at them.
RENAI: How many are there?
ELISE: There are five benevolent spirits. Five different entities for whom Dalton has become a most prized possession. They are trying to get inside his physical body.and they get closer with each passing day. Her words hang in the air like gunsmoke. Pure fear courses through Josh's eyes. He fidgets, agitated.
RENAI: Is there a way to bring Dalton back?
ELISE: There is something we could try. A way of calling him back. I would need your complete trust. Josh can't take it any more. He stands up.
JOSH: No. No. This has gone too far.
RENAI: You said that you'd give her a chance!
JOSH: I have given her a chance, and I did that because I wanted to help you. But I cannot have somebody telling us that the reason our son is in a coma is because his soul is floating off somewhere in another I know this is hard to hear.
ELISE: I know this is hard to hear.
JOSH: No, it's not fair is what it is. You're preying on people's grief and vulnerability, which is really easy to do in a situation like this.
RENAI: Why did we go to all the trouble of bringing them here if you're just going to reject what they say?
JOSH: Because I wanted to help you. To put your mind at ease, and if this helped, then great. But to drag Dalton into this? No.
RENAI: Josh, you're not being fair.
JOSH: Fair? How did the voice of reason become the bad guy here? Don't you see? You want to believe. Of course you do, honey, anybody would. The room goes quiet. Josh turns to Elise.
RENAI: You never believed me.
JOSH: Honey, I'm on your side. But I genuinely think this is dangerous and frankly, a little exploitative. He turns to Elise, Specs and Tucker.
SPECS: We reject more cases than we take. We're not out for money, sir.
JOSH: I know, I know.look, I appreciate your interest and your time. I do. Thank you. Thank you very much. He goes to the front door, opening it.
ELISE: I completely understand. And I honestly don't blame you for reacting like this. She walks to the door, followed by Specs and Tucker, who sling their bags over their shoulders sheepishly.
RENAI: No, please.don't go.
ELISE: Thank you for your time. They exit. The door closes. They are gone.
JOSH: Look at me for a second, honey.
RENAI: I don't know.
JOSH: Do you think I don't want to believe in that stuff? Of course I do. It would make life a lot easier if I did. If I believed that some supernatural force was responsible for what's happened to our son.
RENAI: I don't believe anything anymore, Josh. I used to. I used to believe that I could keep my children safe. I used to believe everything would be okay. To believe in something, you have to know it to be true. She turns and looks at him.
JOSH: Where are you? Where did you go?
JOSH: Renai approaches Josh and they hug.holding on for dear life.
ELISE: What's most important is that you realize no two attempts are the same. I will be completely honest with you about the results, and if no dialogue is established, I will tell you. I am not in the business of embellishing success. What happens, happens. Josh and Renai nod grimly, truly out of their depth.
TUCKER: These still cameras are rigged to pick up changes in the atmosphere, electrical or temperature-wise. Don't be alarmed if they go off.
ELISE: Everything I say while I am in tune will be at a very low volume, so you won't hear any of it. Steven will write it down and repeat it for you. Specs waits obediently at her side.
SPECS: We are calling out to you Dalton. tell us that you are safe tell us where you are
HAVESEENYOUIKNOWWHOYOUAREBUTYOUANDTHE: Specs writing begins to SHRED the paper as he writes furiously, the scrawl getting out of control. Sweat flies from his forehead as he struggles to get it all down. Suddenly a PIERCING SCREAM blasts through the microphone and he jerks it away from his ear - then looks over at Elise. With UTTER DREAD, he sees that she is NO LONGER WEARING THE MASK. She has taken it off and is panting heavily. The scream continues through the mic, audible to everyone.then peters out. Shocked silence follows. Josh glances over at Dalton's bed. He is not in it.
ELISE: Leave this vessel! Leave this vessel! Dalton BELLOWS again - a howl so course and ungodly that it seems ripped straight from the bowels of Lucifer himself.
RENAI: Renai wrenches herself across the carpet and reaches Dalton's limp body.
SPECS: I feel like a mountain climber who's been waiting his whole life to climb Everest, and now that I'm standing on the summit, I don't know what to do with myself.
TUCKER: I'll tell you what we do with ourselves. We make a short list of our preferred media outlets, that's He holds up his video camera.
SPECS: Oh my God.
TUCKER: After all the years we've been dining out on morsels like a faucet that turns itself on and off.we finally have some empirical evidence of the real thing. Proof. He hits pause on the video, freeze-framing the hellish image.
ELISE: Proof? Proof of what? Nine tenths of the world believes that when you die, your soul ascends to sit with God. Would you be telling them something they didn't already know?
TUCKER: That is so not the point. This is not about religion. Here we have irrefutable evidence of a paranormal experience. Our job is to share it.
ELISE: No, our job is not to alert the press and prove the existence of the `paranormal', as you call it. I'm not out to prove anything. I've known there was a higher plane ever since I was a little girl and I could play hopscotch with people whose names were inscribed on tombstones. What you call paranormal is a fact of life for me.
TUCKER: Yeah, until they get their book deal.then you'll wish you'd listened.
ELISE: No, I won't, Tucker. I'll just be proud of you. You two stared down something that would crush most mortals tonight and you stood tall. They manage a smile.
SPECS: So what do we do now?
ELISE: We answer the door.
SPECS: What do you mean? There is a knock at the front door.
JOSH: Mom.what are you doing here?
ELISE: I asked your mother to come over. I called her immediately after.the session. I told her to hurry over.
JOSH: Lorraine's usual strong will has evaporated. She looks to Elise.
ELISE: There is something we must talk about. Sit down, Lorraine. Lorraine follows orders, easing onto the sofa. Eyes down. Thunder growls in the distance.
JOSH: Tell me what? Lorraine swallows and starts talking.
LORRAINE: The reason.I knew to call Elise in this situation.the reason I know her so well.is because I called her myself once. Years ago. She looks up at Josh.
JOSH: What are you talking about?
ELISE: It's no accident that your son is such a gifted traveller. The ability was handed down to him.
JOSH: No.I've never.done that before.
LORRAINE: When you were about eight.you suffered night terrors. Awful fits of pure fear. You were terrified of an old woman who you said would come to visit you at night.
OLD WOMAN: Let me in.
LORRAINE: I dismissed your stories. Told you to grow up.
JOSH: I don't.I don't remember any of You've blocked it out.
ELISE: You've blocked it out.
LORRAINE: I've kept the photos hidden ever since then.until tonight.
ELISE: I advised Lorraine to hide them. To stop taking your picture. And to let you forget.
JOSH: Who is she?
ELISE: A parasite. She befriended your astral body, then drew you out into The Further, just as Dalton has been drawn out.
LORRAINE: I'm sorry, Josh.
ELISE: I didn't want to make you remember this.I only do it for the sake of your son. A quiet descends over them.
JOSH: How long do we have before.that thing.takes him over completely? All eyes are on Elise.
ELISE: If you cannot reach him tonight, then he is gone forever.
ELISE: Remember who you are and why you are traveling. Keep one foot in this world.
RENAI: I want you to know something.you have never been less than good enough for me. You've always been perfect for me. You're my best friend.my soulmate. I love you so I love you too. I have since the first time you looked at me. I don't exist without you. Elise drifts over to the piano, lifting the METRONOME from it. She sets it down in front of Josh, freeing the weighted swing- arm so it moves back and forth.
JOSH: I love you too. I have since the first time you looked at me. I don't exist without you. Elise drifts over to the piano, lifting the METRONOME from it. She sets it down in front of Josh, freeing the weighted swing- arm so it moves back and forth.
ELISE: Close your eyes, Josh.and relax. Breathe deeply. Let all life around you fade out into the background.until the only thing you can hear is the ticking of the metronome. We PUSH IN on Josh, inhaling and exhaling. TICK.TICK.TICK.
JOSH: This is useless.I have no idea what I'm doing and you just suddenly expect me to. He turns around and stops dead. His words trail off.
ELISE: ( SOFTLY )
A: Some lights flicker from within the houses, but no movement or signs of human forms. Only mist. Josh floats an inch above the road, moving down the street. One thing to notice is that there is a total lack of horizon or city scape here.Josh's immediate surroundings are visible for about one hundred yards or so.anything beyond that, in any direction, fades into blackness. As if someone were shining a giant spotlight down on him.
TOTAL: Some lights flicker from within the houses, but no movement or signs of human forms. Only mist. Josh floats an inch above the road, moving down the street. One thing to notice is that there is a total lack of horizon or city scape here.Josh's immediate surroundings are visible for about one hundred yards or so.anything beyond that, in any direction, fades into blackness. As if someone were shining a giant spotlight down on him.
ABSENCE: Some lights flicker from within the houses, but no movement or signs of human forms. Only mist. Josh floats an inch above the road, moving down the street. One thing to notice is that there is a total lack of horizon or city scape here.Josh's immediate surroundings are visible for about one hundred yards or so.anything beyond that, in any direction, fades into blackness. As if someone were shining a giant spotlight down on him.
OF: Some lights flicker from within the houses, but no movement or signs of human forms. Only mist. Josh floats an inch above the road, moving down the street. One thing to notice is that there is a total lack of horizon or city scape here.Josh's immediate surroundings are visible for about one hundred yards or so.anything beyond that, in any direction, fades into blackness. As if someone were shining a giant spotlight down on him.
ELISE: He's in.
JOSH: The sound of his voice is strangely dead - as if he were inside a soundproof recording studio. There are no walls or angles for it to bounce off.
JOSH: He glances into an empty kitchen. Food rots on the table. His footsteps have no sound as he continues on.
JOSH: Where is Dalton? He steps closer yet again. His hand reaches out to touch the figures back. .his fingers are almost grazing the figures shoulder. Soft laughter behind him. Josh glances back to look for the When he turns back, the FIGURE IS GONE. He wheels around, seeing the small-statured figure of the DWARF that Renai encountered, stepping through the door of the room.
JOSH: Do you know where Dalton is? The man doesn't acknowledge him.
MAN: Why do I have to put up with you? What a tramp. You call this a home? I work all day for this? He marches away, leaving Josh standing alone. Josh keeps going, whirling around. He reaches a set of stairs. The stairs descend into darkness. Josh squints into the dark, afraid.
JOSH: Dalton? Where are you? The low rumble of this place is the only reply. Josh turns to walk away. A distant voice stops him.
JOSH: I'm looking for my son, Dalton. The boy does not look up. Does not move. Josh retreats, scanning the kitchen. There are soiled pots in the sink. Rotting food, but no bugs. Josh turns the faucet but no water comes forth. When he turns back, the YOUNG MAN is gone. No longer in his Josh glances back at the living room. The Young Man is now standing inside the living room. Again, he is frozen. Holding his rifle. Looking down at his family, who are now splayed out on the carpet, soaked in
JOSH: DALTON!!!! WHERE ARE YOU?!!! His cry recedes into nothingness.
JOSH: DALTON ( O.S. ) Dad.help me.
DALTON!: DALTON ( O.S. ) Dad.help me.
JOSH: A figure suddenly appears at the end of the hallway. It is the LONG HAIRED MAN IN THE GREY JACKET. The man who terrorized Renai.
DALTON!!: A figure suddenly appears at the end of the hallway. It is the LONG HAIRED MAN IN THE GREY JACKET. The man who terrorized Renai.
YOU CUNT!!: He CHARGES at Josh, screaming with hellfire fury. Josh recoils, falling onto the floor, screaming.
RENAI: What's happening to him?! Elise leans in, attempting to communicate with Josh.
ELISE: You're stronger then they are, Josh. You are a living soul!
JOSH: He shoves the Long Haired Man back, pounding into him with the strength of TEN MEN.
JOSH: DALTON ( O.S. ) INT. BALLROOM, THE FURTHER - CONTINUOUS From darkness into baroque extravagance. Josh finds himself in a gilded chamber of long neglected opulence.as if a palace had been stormed, the occupants murdered and the place left to rot. Mold caked pillars support a ceiling of gold flakes, the rest having rotted way. Mirrors line the walls, their surface too clouded to see into.
JOSH: He weaves between pillars, finally coming across a figure, slumped on the floor in the corner like a dog. It is Dalton. Josh runs to him. His foot is chained to a PIPE behind him, the clamp binding his right ankle. He looks pale and sick. He looks like one of them.
DALTON: Help me, dad.take this off me. The creature steps closer. Taking his time. Drool seeping from his mouth with each drunken, wayward lope.
JOSH: You're not really here. You're asleep in your bed in our home. Just stand up.
DALTON: He's going to hurt me again.
JOSH: This isn't real. You can do this.
DALTON: He's coming!
JOSH: Just stand up! Dalton does - and suddenly finds that the chain is no longer attached to his foot. The Red Faced Man ROARS and the power of his breath sends them FLYING BACK.
RENAI: Help him!
JOSH: ( MOANING )
ELISE: They've made contact. I know it. He's found your son.
RENAI: What happens now?
ELISE: We need them to come back. We need him to find us. Tucker's equipment begins to shake on the table. The hanging light above them quivers as if an earthquake were rattling it. A force is building in the room.
JOSH: I want to get out!
JOSH: ..eeeeet out! The room trembles again. Elise looks to Renai.
ELISE: Call out to him!
DALTON: Josh follows the order - and hears it. A faint shout. A siren call from another world.
RENAI: Follow my voice. Come back to us. The room stops trembling. All is very still. For a moment, it is as if time has stopped. Nuclear silence. Then.a drawer slides open in the corner of the room. Lorraine and Renai gasp at this supernatural interruption.
DALTON: Put me down, I can run! Josh sets Dalton down, who scampers up the stairs. Josh is about to follow when he turns and spies a familiar face.
JOSH: Go! I'm right behind you! Dalton charges ahead as Josh glares back at this face from his past.
RENAI: ( TO JOSH )
ELISE: ( TO SPECS )
SPECS: He's awake! Dalton sits up, panting. Renai charges into the room. He looks at her, registering her appearance.
DALTON: Renai literally throws herself at him, wrapping her arms around his body. No words can express. Renai scoops him up, carrying him out of the bedroom.
ELISE: Find me, Josh! Now! Wake up! The closest entity reaches out with gnarled fingers and is almost touching Josh
RENAI: Josh? Josh? He pants on the floor, barely able to speak.
JOSH: Dalton and Renai pounce on him. Josh holds onto Dalton like he's a life preserver, and in a way, for Josh, he is. He laughs, inhaling deeply.
RENAI: I don't know what to say. She rushes forward and hugs all three of them.
ELISE: Well put. Josh brings Lorraine in they all embrace in a circle. A group hug for the ages.
JOSH: Now this is worth dying for.
TUCKER: I guess you did some pretty awesome stuff in there. You deserve some You did good too in an assistant- type way. Tucker can't hold his stoic pose any longer. He breaks out laughing, followed quickly by Specs.
SPECS: You did good too in an assistant- type way. Tucker can't hold his stoic pose any longer. He breaks out laughing, followed quickly by Specs.
TUCKER: Thanks, boss. They shake hands.
SPECS: ( BEAT )
DALTON: I'm tired.
RENAI: Too bad. I'm never letting you go to sleep again. She runs her fingers through his hair.
JOSH: You introduced me to a new world.
ELISE: No. You've been there before, remember? And you'll go back.
JOSH: Maybe I can forget again. He reaches into his jacket, taking out the eerie photos Lorraine gave him of himself as a child.
ELISE: Nothing, I. She turns away, reaching for something.
JOSH: What's the matter, Elise? She spins around and lifts Tucker's camera up to her face, aiming it at him. She depresses the trigger and takes a photo of him, bathing the whole corridor in white light. Josh recoils back in shock. Elise lowers the camera. She is terrified. Josh suddenly LUNGES at her, slapping the camera out of her hands.
RENAI: What was that? ( beat; to Dalton ) Stay here. She gets up.
RENAI: Elise, what was that noise? Elise simply looks up at her. The utter terror on her face is palpable. Her neck is bleeding from scratch marks.
RENAI: Elise, what happened? You're scaring me, tell me where Josh is? Elise finally looks up at her. Seeing the "expert" so afraid unnerves Renai. When the lion-tamer drops his whip and runs, you know the lion is vicious. Elise opens her mouth to speak.but nothing comes out. Instead, she simply holds up the camera, showing Renai the digital display of the photo she took. We do not see it. We simply see the look of horror on Renai's face.
JOSH: You introduced me to a new world.
ELISE: No. You've been there before, remember? And you'll go back.
JOSH: Maybe I can forget again. Once again, we see him reach into his jacket, taking out the photos Lorraine gave him.
ELISE: Nothing, I. She turns away, reaching for something. We see her scoop up Tucker's digital camera.
JOSH: What's the matter, Elise? She spins around and lifts Tucker's camera up to her face, aiming it at him. She depresses the trigger and takes a photo of him, bathing the whole corridor in white light. and in that split second, Josh is replaced by the Old Elise lowers the camera, horrified. For a beat, the Old Woman just glares at her. .then she CHARGES at Elise, arms outstretched, wrapping her white hands around the soft flesh of Elise's throat. Elise CHOKES, eyes bulging, spittle flying from her mouth, as the pale hands of the Old Woman dig into her thorax, droplets of blood running down her chest where the yellowing finger- nails have CUT IN to the flesh. The Old Woman smiles - a merciless harlequin grin that mocks Elise's pain. She lets Elise go, letting her drop to the floor. The Old Woman turns and glares down the corridor. Something has caught her attention. A distant scream.
DALTON: Put me down, I can run! Josh sets Dalton down, who scampers up the stairs. We are watching the same scene we saw earlier play out in the Josh is about to follow when he turns and spies a familiar face. He looks at the Old Woman.seeing her through the Come on, dad! Come on!
JOSH: Go! I'm right behind you! Dalton disappears as Josh glares at the woman.
JOSH: Get away the fuck away from me. I'm not scared of you, just leave me alone! Get away from me! We KEEP CIRCLING, wiping past Josh's back and completing a 360 degree turn, THROUGH THE WALL and back into
