AN ARM: stretched out. Long, alabaster white. Beautiful. A WASH CLOTH enters frame. Starts washing the arm with long, tender A TUMBLE OF HAIR thick and auburn. Being gently washed.
FINGERNAILS: being clipped with a shiny nail clipper. Short. Uniform. brown with a touch of gold. A BRUSH comes into view. Brushes against the eyebrow hair, then back again. Against. Then back again.
EYEBROWS: brown with a touch of gold. A BRUSH comes into view. Brushes against the eyebrow hair, then back again. Against. Then back again.
HAIR: now dry. The HAND appears with a comb. Pulls down through the thick tresses. It is only now that we see the hand is wearing a SURGICAL
WILL: I don't need to look at it.
HAP: Nothing wrong with smelling the roses.
WILL: Tell that to her, partner.
ELLIE: Hey, Mr. Angstrom!
MR. ANGSTROM: What're you doing here?
ELLIE: Police business.
MR. ANGSTROM: Police business? Didn't you used to baby-sit for us?
ELLIE: I don't babysit any more, Mr. Angstrom. Just made detective three weeks ago.
MR. ANGSTROM: Boy, Charlie must be short-handed down at the station. "Halibut fishing capital of the world."
WILL: "Halibut fishing capital of the world."
HAP: This ought to be interesting.
ELLIE: ( over the engine ) Detective Dormer! It's a huge honor to meet you! Ellie Burr. I'm here to take you to the
WILL: My partner.
ELLIE: Detective Eckhart! I know! Welcome to
ELLIE: I just want to say how incredible it is to have you working with us, Detective Dormer. I've followed all your cases. Theodore Dineli, Frank and Casey Prud'homme, the Port Angeles shootings. .And especially the Leland Street Murders. That was my case study at the
PILOT: Tell your dad the game's gonna start late this week, Ellie.
ELLIE: Sure thing, Spence. That's where Ronald Langley cut you in the basement of his father's house on 325 Leland, isn't it?
WILL: You did your homework, Officer.
ELLIE: She throws a quick glance at Angstrom. Out of ear-shot.
ELLIE: I just made detective three weeks ago.
CHIEF NYBACK: I'll be damned!
WILL: ( warmly ) How you doing, Charlie?
HAP: Hey, Charlie.
CHIEF NYBACK: Christ. I haven't seen you boys since.
WILL: Just after Leland Street.
CHIEF NYBACK: What's that, then?
HAP: Eight years.
WILL: Seven years.
CHIEF NYBACK: Seven years? Where does it all go? That was some amazing time, though, wasn't it? You haven't changed a bit, Will.
WILL: You have, Chief.
CHIEF NYBACK: I knew that was coming. I deserve it. Pay attention to this man, Ellie. He'll teach you how to be a great cop.
ELLIE: Yes, sir.
CHIEF NYBACK: That's all, for now.
ELLIE: Oh. Right. Okay.
WILL: Nice kid.
CHIEF NYBACK: ( sits with a SIGH ) Got a love affair with police work. Drives me crazy with it.
WILL: Keeping you busy up here, Charlie?
HAP: "2nd prize Great Kodiak Salmon Catch."
CHIEF NYBACK: I told you seven years ago this was a stepping stone to retirement. Looks like it's a good time for you to get up here, too. With all the bad business going on down at Special Branch. Just five bad apples so far?
WILL: So far.
CHIEF NYBACK: What's the D.A. got them on?
WILL: Four unwarranted shootings, witness intimidation, and cocaine theft.
CHIEF NYBACK: How about you? How you faring?
HAP: They're all over us, Charlie.
WILL: They're all over everybody.
HAP: I.A.'s calling themselves the "Corruption Task Force." Can you believe that? Trying to root out any mistakes or "oversights" any other Detectives may have made over the years. They're turning it into a witch hunt. Something on the news about it practically every
CHIEF NYBACK: Got a bunch of messages here from some guy named Warfield.
WILL: That's I.A.'s pit bull.
CHIEF NYBACK: Wants me to keep him posted on all your movements up here. I'm just glad Buck could spare you a couple of weeks. Take you out of the frenzy. I gotta tell you, though, I sure don't miss big city police work. Not that I was ever a great detective. But up here there's no Bureaucracy. No Public Relations. No blurred lines. Just good guys and bad guys. Simple. Except for this.
CHIEF NYBACK: Couldn't get a thing from the body. Not a trace. Town's never dealt with anything like this before. I've briefed everybody about your coming. They know to follow your lead.
CHIEF NYBACK: This is Detective Dormer and his partner Detective Eckhart. On loan from Buck Lundgard, Seattle Robbery and Homicide Special Branch. They'll be helping with the Connell case.
FRED: CHIEF NYBACK ( ignoring him ) ( nods to Fred )
CHIEF NYBACK: ( ignoring him ) Anything they need to see, you show them; anywhere they want to go, you take them. ( nods to Fred ) This is Detective Fred Duggar. He's been leading the investigation up to now.
WILL: Fred tugs at his dark handlebar moustache. Stands.
FRED: Suppose you want to see the body.
FRED: We can walk from here. Guess that's what they call Alaskan Don't worry about him. He's just mad 'cause you're taking over.
WILL: Guess that's what they call Alaskan Don't worry about him. He's just mad 'cause you're taking over.
FRED: Ellie! Go type something!
HAP: Beaten to death.
CORONER: Beaten to death. What about these contusions?
WILL: What about these contusions?
CORONER: Any signs of rape?
WILL: Any signs of rape?
CORONER: The coroner starts to cover the body with a sheet. Will stays her hand.
WILL: He pulls the sheet back down. Studying the body of Kay Connell. Starts walking slowly around the table. In his element. The faucet drips. Drips. Drips. He bends down to smell her hair. Takes a handful and lets it fall from his fingers. Continues around the table. Picks up one of her hands. Examines her fingers, her nails. Continues down around her feet. Checks between her first and second toes.
FRED: No fibers, skin flakes, hairs.
WILL: No fibers, skin flakes, hairs.
FRED: Like I said, no. We know about those things up here.
WILL: He knew exactly what we'd be looking for. Made sure to cover up all his tracks.
HAP: Even the best make mistakes.
HAP: Lower forty-eight?
RACHEL: You're not from here. I can tell by your Oh? And how's that?
HAP: Oh? And how's that?
RACHEL: Hap smiles at her. Will checks his watch.
WILL: Detectives Will Dormer and Hap Eckhart. There should be a reservation for us.
RACHEL: ( to Hap ) Your friend's all business.
WILL: I'm always all business. Is it really 9:30?
RACHEL: ( nods ) Alaskan summers. Hope you're an easy sleeper. It'll be like this all night. Sign here.
WILL: Come on in.
HAP: See you have the same decor as my room. Same view, too. I've been watching that tugboat for the last half hour. So small, pulling all that weight. We have to talk, Will.
WILL: What do you want to talk about?
HAP: You know what about.
WILL: We'll talk when we get back to Seattle.
HAP: When's that, a week? Two weeks?. We have to figure out a plan of action You know my plan of action.
WILL: You know my plan of action.
HAP: To do nothing.
WILL: That's right.
HAP: Dammit, Will. Warfield had me locked up in his office again for five hours yesterday. Five hours. Asking all kinds of questions.
WILL: He's asking everybody questions.
HAP: But he's zeroing in on me. On us. Everyone's talking about it.
WILL: He's just rattling your cage.
HAP: Well, I gotta tell you. With a wife, three kids, and a pension plan in the balance, it's rattling hard.
WILL: We say nothing. It goes away. Simple as
HAP: ( lowers voice ) Look. We've tampered with evidence. We've pushed witnesses. We've planted shit. And they're sniffing around like dogs. Especially on the Dobbs case.
WILL: Weston Dobbs killed an eight year-old boy and left him hanging in the basement like a piece of meat. You remember that?
HAP: You know I remember that.
WILL: One word to I.A. and he walks.
HAP: Maybe not. We could talk to Buck.
WILL: No way.
HAP: Cut some kind of a deal. I heard that's what Flynn's doing.
WILL: Mike Flynn's a dirty cop, Hap! We are nothing like Mike Flynn. We did what we needed to do to make sure that son-of- bitch Dobbs paid for what he did. And every bastard like him. We say one word about it and every case we ever brought in is going to blow wide open and they'll all walk. Every last one. And I am not going to let that happen. No deals. No compromises. No discussions.
HAP: Goddammit, Will. You grab on to something and you don't let it go.
HAP: I don't know if it's because you think it's the right thing to do or because your pride won't let you do anything else. I can't tell any more. But I can tell you one thing. I'm getting too old for this cowboy cop stuff. Breaking the rules. Cleaning up messes. We're a dying breed, Will. You're a dying breed. I.A., the D.A., all those reporters - they don't care what you did at Leland Street seven years ago. They don't care that you've made this your life. They don't care about getting the bad guy.
WILL: I care.
WILL: You got to be kidding me.
ELLIE: Fred wants us to meet him at the
ELLIE: Brought you a bear claw. Just in case you were hungry. Local delicacy.
WILL: Think I'll pass. What kind of calls you get around here?
ELLIE: Oh. You know. Small-time stuff. Nothing like what you must get. Mostly drinking-related problems. Domestic abuse. Barroom fights. Stuff like that. In the summer months it's pretty quiet. That's when there's work out on the boats. The rest of the year, though. Hey, there, Joe! That's Joe Willy. Took his family hostage in November. That was the most exciting thing that happened last year. I wasn't there, though. Chief barely lets me handle anything above a misdemeanor.
WILL: Don't give misdemeanors a bad rap.
ELLIE: But they're so boring. All small stuff.
WILL: It's all about the small stuff. Small lies. Small mistakes. Small oversights. People give themselves away in a traffic violation just as much as they do in a murder case. It's human nature. Aren't you going to write that down?
ELLIE: Let me just.
MRS. CONNELL: I don't believe in keeping a child's room like a shrine.
WILL: Typical seventeen year-old. She went to a party Friday night?
ELLIE: Down at a local dive the kids like to hang out in.
WILL: No diary.
FRED: She left the party early. Friends said she had a fight with her boyfriend and stormed out.
WILL: What time was that?
FRED: Around twelve-thirty.
WILL: Who was the last one to see her alive?
FRED: Randy Stetz. Her boyfriend. We've questioned him, searched his place. Didn't find anything.
WILL: These are designer. Expensive. Could Randy Stetz afford these?
ELLIE: He fixes boat engines.
WILL: Well her mother didn't buy them for her.
HAP: What are we thinking?
WILL: Kay Connell had an admirer. I want to talk to the boyfriend.
WILL: You don't seem all that sad.
RANDY: I haven't had a chance! You fuckers been all over my back since Monday!
HAP: You know smoking stunts your growth.
RANDY: Yeah, okay, fat-ass.
HAP: ( smiles at Will ) More Alaskan hospitality.
WILL: Did you love her?
RANDY: Kay Connell. Did you love her?
WILL: Kay Connell. Did you love her?
RANDY: Sure. She was nice.
WILL: "She was nice." Wow. That makes me all soft inside. Ever occur to you she didn't love you back?
RANDY: You heard me that time.
WILL: You heard me that time.
RANDY: She loved me. She wanted to see me every But she was seeing someone else on the
WILL: But she was seeing someone else on the
RANDY: I don't know what you're fucking talking Friday night, at the party - what'd you fight about?
WILL: Friday night, at the party - what'd you fight about?
RANDY: What kind of stuff?
WILL: What kind of stuff?
RANDY: Just stuff. I don't fucking remember.
WILL: The other guy?
RANDY: I told you I don't remember.
WILL: After that she left the party to go to How should I know?.
RANDY: How should I know?.
WILL: Ran like hell to go to him.
RANDY: Fuck you, man! - I'm sick of all your fucking cop questions.
WILL: Now you listen to me, you little shit. This fuck-the-world-Metallica-t-shirt crap may work with your mamma, but it doesn't work with me. You got mad at your girlfriend because she was seeing someone else. You want to be the last person who saw her alive or are you going to tell me who that is?
RANDY: I don't know.
WILL: You don't know.
RANDY: She didn't tell me.
ELLIE: He's a little surly, isn't he?
WILL: Just a little.
WILL: I want you to check this out, Ellie.
ELLIE: We already did.
WILL: Do it again.
ELLIE: But there wasn't any.
WILL: The small things - remember? The second you're about to dismiss something - look at it again.
ELLIE: You want me to write that down?
WILL: Who's that?
ELLIE: The bartender at Darrow's. He was there Friday night.
WILL: Good. He's up next.
WILL: ( reading ) Halibut Calabrese. Halibut Olympia. Halibut Cajun Style. Halibut fish and Can't wait to see what's for dessert.
HAP: At least there's variety.
WILL: Looks like the natives are restless.
HAP: Will looks back at his partner. Hap's fidgeting with the end of his tie. A cold flash down Will's spine.
HAP: I wish I could stick it out like you. I just, with Trish and the kids.
WILL: Don't do this, Hap.
HAP: I'm thinking I could get off with probation. Keep half my pension. That's all I want.
WILL: ( hisses ) Goddammit, Hap. Think about what you're You don't have to be involved, Will.
HAP: You don't have to be involved, Will.
WILL: You tell Buck and I'm involved whether I like it or not.
HAP: Hey - you do everything around here?
RACHEL: Just about.
WILL: I'll just have another Scotch in my room. If you don't mind.
WILL: Where is it?
ELLIE: Over here.
WILL: We're sure it's hers?
FRED: Has her books in it.
HAP: What about prints?
WILL: Biology and Algebra. Find out who she studied with. Find out where she bought it. Otherwise Engaged, Murder at Sunset. Who here reads this kind of crap?
FARRELL: I read that kind of crap.
WILL: Read them. Tell me anything that strikes That's it.
FRED: I'll stick it in the evidence locker.
WILL: Will takes it, walks slowly over to the window. Thinking. Twists the knapsack in his hands and looks out at the
FARRELL: Uh, right. About two miles outside of On the beach.
ELLIE: On the beach.
FRED: Why are we taking it back?
WILL: This murder was in the papers, right?
ELLIE: Yeah. All over.
WILL: Call all of them from here to Anchorage. Tell them we now know that Kay Connell left the party with a dark blue knapsack, but we haven't recovered it yet. We can get it in by the morning editions. Fill this with random books. Make it look heavy. It'll eat this guy alive if he thinks he overlooked a detail.
FARRELL: Glock 40. All plastic save the barrel and firing pin. Never rusts. What do you carry down in Seattle?
HAP: Smith and Wesson 45.
FARRELL: Fred Duggar's standing on the other side of them. He's got a pair of binoculars, too. They're staking out the cabin. Been there a while.
FRED: What are you doing here?
WILL: ( answering for her ) I told her to come.
ELLIE: Anything yet?
FARRELL: Maybe this guy doesn't read the papers.
HAP: Or goes straight to the Sports Section. Who gets first dibs?
FRED: ( looking through binoculars ) I see someone!
ELLIE: Will puts up his hand. She stops short. He plunges ahead. Hap. Will. Farrell. Fred. Fanning out. Silent. Keeping eye-contact. Will points to Farrell. Wants the megaphone. Farrell, balancing on a rock, holds it out. Accidentally keys it. The feedback SQUAWKS. Fuck.
FRED: He's bolting!
WILL: Go! Go! Go!
WILL: They look around: Nothing. A few old nets, a wooden table rotted through. No knapsack. In the corner, a TRAP DOOR, left open. Will races over. Looks down into the darkness. Turns and points to Farrell. The men nod. They rush out the door and split directions. Will crouches down by the trap door and.
FOG: has enveloped everything - obscuring all vision, dulling all sound. Like a strange dream. Eerie. Will blinks against the thick whiteness. Strains to hear any sound, anything. There's only the distant LAPPING of the He tightens his grip on his gun and plunges into the fog. Quick, careful steps. Stumbles over a rock. Waves his gun in defense. Eyes wide open like a blind man.
SUDDENLY: a GUNSHOT. Off to the right. Will whips his head around.
FARRELL: Sorry about.
WILL: Where is he? Where'd the shot come from?
FARRELL: Over there.
SUDDENLY: a DARK FIGURE flashes past him. The killer! Inches away. Will wheels CRACK! Squeezes off a shot. Misses! Can't believe it. Goes for another. Nothing! Jammed! The figure, disappearing. Will tosses his Smith and Wesson, reaches behind his back and whips out his SMITH 39/13.
WILL: CRACK! Squeezes off a shot. Misses! Can't believe it. Goes for another. Nothing! Jammed! The figure, disappearing. Will tosses his Smith and Wesson, reaches behind his back and whips out his SMITH 39/13.
WILL DORMER: kneeling beside the body of his partner. Lying in the water. Shot in the stomach. Blood dribbling from his mouth. Will grabs him up by the collar.
WILL: Starts shaking the limp body. Teeth clenched. Hap's head, rolls back. Mouth agape. Face white. Will, rips off his tie. Presses it to the gaping wound. trying to stop the bleeding.warm blood, pumping into the Ellie watches. Horrified. Fred races over to the body. Feels for Hap's pulse.
FRED: Will, shaking Hap again. Jaw set. Eyes intense. Veins popping up along his temples. Fred catches his shoulder. Will looks up at Fred. His face contorts. Suddenly leaps to his feet. Grabs a rock and hurls it savagely into the thick fog.
CHIEF NYBACK: And then you lost him.
WILL: And then I lost him. In the fog.
CHIEF NYBACK: About how long 'til you heard the suspect's second shot?
WILL: Twenty, thirty seconds. I followed the sound down to the water. That's where. That's where I found Hap.
CHIEF NYBACK: I think you need a glass of this.
WILL: ( yells ) Why didn't I know about that goddamn tunnel, Charlie?
CHIEF NYBACK: There's a bunch of those tunnels out there, Will. From bunkers over sixty years old. I don't even know half of them myself, and I grew up here.
WILL: I had him, Charlie. Right in front of me. Not two feet. I could smell the son- of-a-bitch. Playing with me. And I missed the shot. He was right there and I missed the shot! Then my goddamned gun
CHIEF NYBACK: Will, you can't blame yourself.
WILL: I had him!
CHIEF NYBACK: It's only gonna make you crazy.
ELLIE: You wanted to see me?
CHIEF NYBACK: Right, Ellie. I want you to take care of the investigation into Detective Eckhart's
ELLIE: But what about the Connell case? I'm on the Connell case.
CHIEF NYBACK: We need paperwork, Ellie. You know that. Just write up a quick report.
WILL: I'm going to check on the roadblocks.
CHIEF NYBACK: You're no good right now, Will. Go back to the Lodge. Try to get some rest.
RADIO: .earlier this evening after an aborted attempt to apprehend a suspect. He was
RACHEL: I'm sorry about your partner. It's been on the radio for the last two hours. Nothing but that. Like when they found Kay Connell's body. We're not used to this sort of thing up He was standing right there just a couple of days ago. Your partner. Exactly where you are now. I hope I was nice to him.
WILL: You were nice to him. He liked you.
RACHEL: ( answering ) Pioneer Lodge?. ( listens ) Hold on a second. He's right here. John Warfield. He's called a couple of Want me to lie?
WILL: ( into phone )
WARFIELD'S VOICE: Detective Dormer. I've been trying to reach you. I was very sorry to hear about your partner, Detective Eckhart. It must have been a terrible shock, what happened this morning.
WILL: ( into phone ) That's not exactly how I'd put it. No, no. I suppose not. But I look forward to reading the report. Very sad. Very sad. Funny.
WILL: ( into phone ) What do you mean, "Funny?"
WARFIELD'S VOICE: Oh, nothing. Just that I felt Detective Eckhart and I, Hap and I, were starting to make a real connection before you left. I sensed that he was ready to get some things off his chest. Did you sense anything like that, Detective? I mean, as his partner?. .You were his partner for, what, about ten years?.
WILL: ( into phone ) You know why everyone hates you, Warfield? It's not your questions, it's not your press conferences, it's not even your cheap suits; everyone hates you 'cause day after day you suck the marrow out of real cops when you never had the balls to become one yourself. Well I got to tell you, it's a shame you're not up here with me because I'd love to show you right now just what a real cop is capable of. You just remember that when you're sitting at your bullshit desk reading your bullshit report on my dead partner! Next time. Go ahead and lie.
WILL: He gets tangled in it. Pulls it off and flings it in the corner.
HAP'S REFLECTION: looming behind him.
HAP: They're watching us, Will.
WILL: .nothing. No one's there.
CHIEF NYBACK: .Nightmute hasn't lost an officer in thirty-seven years, and even though Detective Eckhart wasn't from here, he was as good as one of us on this case. I had the honor of working with him down in Seattle for a number of years. He was a fine detective and an even better man. Fred, you'll be working with Detective Dormer directly from now on. Will? Anything you'd like to add? Okay. Then let's get to it.
CHIEF NYBACK: Okay. Then let's get to it.
WILL: It's good to be accurate, Ellie. You're doing your job.
ELLIE: I'm so sorry about what happened. I know you did everything you could.
WILL: I was here.
FRED: Dormer. Still no sign of the bullet that went through Farrell.
WILL: I'm going to the hospital to talk to him You get the search party together. No fewer than thirty people. I'll meet you in exactly twenty-five minutes. Don't waste any time.
FRED: Partner or no partner. That guy's a He has to be a prick, Fred. He's a great Detective Dormer! You don't seem like the bring-an- Snickers-bar kind of guy.
ELLIE: He has to be a prick, Fred. He's a great Detective Dormer! You don't seem like the bring-an- Snickers-bar kind of guy.
FARRELL: Detective Dormer! You don't seem like the bring-an- Snickers-bar kind of guy.
WILL: I'm not. How's the book?
FARRELL: Oh, a real tear-jerker. Brody, the good guy, just got shot. Oh. I'm sorry. About Hap. Detective I wish I'd had the chance to get to know him better. Take him fishing or He would have liked that.
WILL: I wish I'd had the chance to get to know him better. Take him fishing or He would have liked that.
FARRELL: I wish I'd had the chance to get to know him better. Take him fishing or He would have liked that.
WILL: He would have liked that.
FARRELL: We just gotta catch the bastard, right?
WILL: That's why I'm here. I need to know exactly what you saw yesterday, Farrell.
FARRELL: What I saw?
WILL: Anything. It's important.
FARRELL: Pretty much nothing. That fog was so thick. The bullet seemed to come out of nowhere. I don't even remember seeing any shapes. Then I saw you. But only when you came up close. Then you disappeared again. I guess I heard more than I saw. No. No. Don't be sorry. It's not your
WILL: No. No. Don't be sorry. It's not your
NURSE: Time for your meds.
FARRELL: Lonnie and I went to high school
LONNIE: Just take the pills, Farrell.
WILL: How's the leg?
FARRELL: Oh, you know. Don't feel that much. Bullet went right through.
WILL: Right. Got lost in the rocks.
FARRELL: We'll get the other one, though. After the autopsy.
FRANCIS: You're supposed to be Farrell. Shot in the thigh and writhing in pain.
ELLIE: You're supposed to be Farrell. Shot in the thigh and writhing in pain.
FRANCIS: C'mon, Ellie. What's it matter?
ELLIE: Accuracy. That's what. Now get down.
FRANCIS: CLICK! Kepp takes the picture.
ELLIE: ( into tape recorder ) .shortly after hearing the second shot, Detective Dormer continued through the water until he spotted the body, lying approximately fifteen feet away. You there, Rich?
FRANCIS: Ellie! Think I found something!
WILL: The woods. One group heading south, the other heading north. Make sure they're set to channel 6.
FRED: Make sure they're set to channel 6.
OFFICER #1: We did the interviews with all the nearby houses like you asked.
WILL: OFFICER #1 ( shakes his head )
OFFICER #1: ( shakes his head ) Here's a list of who we talked to.
WILL: Alright. Go back and set up some follow- ups for this afternoon.
FRED: You don't think they should start further
WILL: He had to have exited here. Over those boulders. I saw him move, he's nimble. Would have taken the hardest way out.
FRED: ( into phone ) ( into phone ) Where was it? ( into phone ) ( slaps phone closed ) That was Ellie. They found Farrell's bullet. Says it looks like a 357. After the autopsy Rich can drive 'em both to the lab in Anchorage. Have a murder weapon by That is, if it's alright with you.
RACHEL: Here. It's on the house.
WILL: He starts up the stairs. Notices Rachel straining to return the key to the top of the clock. Backtracks to help her. She gets it without his help.
RACHEL: I got it. Don't know why I bother. It's been broken for two years.
WILL: Rachel looks at him. Can't figure this guy out. Remembers A TINGLE skips down Will's spine. He looks at her.
WILL: Fred Duggar?
RACHEL: No. He didn't say what his name was. Only that you were expecting him.
WILL: I'm not expecting anyone.
RACHEL: That's not what he thinks.
WILL: What did he look like?
RACHEL: Short. Dark hair. Not that memorable.
WILL: I need to borrow something.
THE ALLEY: where he vomited the day before. Stops. Sees the DEAD DOG, still down at the end. Half obscured by the dumpster. Will wavers, pale. Suddenly. A HOMELESS MAN emerges from the shadows. Big. Wild-eyed. Awakened from his sleep. Will, quickly backtracks to the sidewalk. Spooked. JUST THEN the CRACK! of bat hitting ball. He turns. In the distance. Nightmute Elementary School.
WILL: I could say the same thing about you.
ELLIE: Oh. We always have play-offs in the middle of the night. It's the best time.
WILL: Who's playing?
ELLIE: The Puffins and the Hawks. We're in extra innings. The Hawks have a really good line-up this year.
ELLIE: That's my sister. That's okay, Lib! Usually she's better.
WILL: She your only sibling?
ELLIE: ( nods ) Twelve years younger. What about you? You have any siblings?
WILL: ( rubs his eyes ) Well. I had a brother. He died when I was eleven.
ELLIE: Oh, I shouldn't have.
WILL: It's okay. Happened a long time ago. He was killed in a fire. In New Mexico.
ELLIE: That must have been awful for you.
WILL: Not really. I remember I was more embarrassed that he had died. Embarrassed that it made me different. So I didn't tell the other kids at school what had happened. They'd ask me where he was, where he'd gone. And I'd make up stories. He was visiting an aunt up north, he'd broken his leg, he was in a Swiss boarding school. Stuff like that. Nice kid, huh? Just kept making up more and more lies.
ELLIE: You okay?
WILL: I'm going back to the Lodge, Ellie. Still need to go through some of Kay Connell's school records.
ELLIE: ( unsure ) Try to get some sleep!
WILL: ( calls out window )
WILL: I'll pick it up. You head back to the
WILL: ( into phone ) Duggar - I'm at the coroner's now. I'll be back in about twenty minutes.
CORONER: Detective. Thought you were sending one of your lackeys.
WILL: I thought it was better if I came. Under the circumstances.
CORONER: It's different when you know them, isn't Just sign over there and she's all yours.
WILL: Thanks, Doc.
CORONER: You're looking a little green, Detective.
WILL: What's with all the moose antlers around
FRED: Lots of moose.
WILL: When's Rich coming?
FRED: I'll call him now.
WILL: First I need a copy of the key.
FRED: This isn't Seattle, Detective. We don't have copies. This is the only one.
SECRETARY: Detective Dormer? Telephone.
SECRETARY: This came for you earlier.
WILL: ( into phone ) Goddammit, Warfield, if you're gonna check up on me every.
MAN'S VOICE: I bet you haven't been getting much
WILL: ( into phone )
MAN'S VOICE: You lower-48s. You think the white nights are kind of neat. Then you can't sleep for days. I've seen it happen about a million times. But you can't sleep for a different reason.
WILL: ( into phone ) Who is this?
WILL: ( into phone ) I said, who is this?
MAN'S VOICE: I saw what really happened, Will.
MAN'S VOICE: I saw you kill your partner. With your back-up weapon. Out there on the beach. I saw you shoot him dead.
CLOSE ON: Will Dormer's face. As all the blood drains from it. As all SOUND fades around him. As his heart
WILL: ( sotto, into phone ) Now you listen to me.
MAN'S VOICE: Don't worry. I won't tell anyone. Oh, and I saw you take my gun. My uncle's old 357. I dropped it in the rocks. But you can go ahead and keep that. .I mean. .Now that we're partners.
THE BOX: sitting on the edge of the secretary's desk. He reaches for it. Carefully, rips the packing tape. Bends back a flap. Inside, some dark blue material. An embroidered daisy.
ELLIE: You look like you're in a hurry. I just wanted to ask you about these pictures. I know they're not great quality, but this is where you said you were when you first saw Detective Eckhart, right?
WILL: Gets in and closes the door. Puts his hand over the box. Ellie comes up to the window.
ELLIE: But here's the thing. I retraced your exact steps according to your statement. You couldn't have seen Detective Eckhart from there. I mean, not in that fog.
WILL: Then change it.
ELLIE: How much closer would you say you were?
WILL: I don't remember.
ELLIE: Five feet? Seven feet?
WILL: Listen, Ellie. I don't have time for this shit. Five feet, seven feet, twenty feet. Put down whatever you want in your report, alright?
WILL: These should have gone out two hours ago.
YOUNG GIRL: .And that's how I think Kay would want us to remember her. .Swimming, reading, hiking through the .playing her flute, meeting at Darrow's after school.
YOUNG GIRL: .And always, always with a smile on her
RANDY STETZ: in tight jeans and a down vest. In front of him stands a GIRL with white-blonde hair. From the torn pictures in Kay Connell's room. Will, straightens at the sight of her. Sees Randy surreptitiously caress her ass.
FRED: We should go say hello to Mrs. Connell.
WILL: You go ahead. I'll be there in a second.
RANDY: Thought I smelled something.
WILL: Good to see you, too, Randy.
TANYA: Who're you?
RANDY: Fuckin' cop.
RANDY: You coming or not?
TANYA: I never met anyone from Seattle before.
WILL: You're not missing much.
TANYA: What are you doing in this shit-hole
WILL: You were good friends with Kay Connell, weren't you?
TANYA: I was her best friend.
WILL: Best friend?
TANYA: Since grade school.
WILL: That's a long time.
TANYA: We were like sisters. Knew everything about each other.
WILL: Must be tough for you. What happened.
TANYA: Everybody says I'm holding up great, considering. Don't even care if I go to school. They're all worried I haven't cried yet. But there's no law against not crying, What about Kay's other friends?
WILL: What about Kay's other friends?
TANYA: Do we have to talk about Kay? I don't want to talk about her right now. Let's just drive. Go somewhere.
WILL: You want me to take you somewhere?
TANYA: Long as it's fun. Young, impressionable girl left alone with older, Seattle detective. Who knows what we could get up to.
WILL: How about this. You like this?
TANYA: Thought you wanted something fun.
WILL: Thought you wanted something fun.
TANYA: Move over! Move over, you crazy fuck!
TANYA: You crazy son-of-a-bitch! You could have killed us! Ow! You're hurting me! You want to tell me what the fuck this is all about?
WILL: You and Kay were like sisters?
TANYA: That's what I said.
WILL: Told each other everything. That why your picture's torn up in the top drawer of her bureau? Why her boyfriend's hand was clamped on your ass at her funeral? You like games, little girl? Well how about this one - you're standing right where her naked body was found wrapped up in a garbage bag.
TANYA: Who was Kay seeing besides Randy Stetz? Who gave her those dresses? I need a name.
WILL: Who was Kay seeing besides Randy Stetz? Who gave her those dresses? I need a name.
TANYA: I don't know.
WILL: You don't know.
TANYA: She wouldn't tell me!
WILL: But you were such good friends.
TANYA: It was like some big fucking secret!
WILL: What was?
TANYA: She kept saying she was gonna get out of here. Leave us all behind. That he was going to take her!
WILL: My arm!
TANYA: My arm!
WILL: She used some stupid code name.
TANYA: She used some stupid code name.
WILL: What was it?
TANYA: Brody.I don't know. .Something Brody! You happy now, you fucking bastard?
WILL: Lucy. Desi.
BEDROOM: Single bed. Books and magazines. A half-eaten tuna sandwich on the bedside table. "NYPD BLUE" calendar on the wall. It's quiet. He walks over to a large DESK by the window. Scattered papers. Computer. Mini cassette recorder.
WALTER'S VOICE: Now you're mad at me. .I spotted your car around the corner. You must have been in a hurry. Put some pieces together. Don't worry, I would have done the same thing. .I'm not coming home. So you shouldn't wait there all day. I mean, they'll wonder about you at the station. You should be careful about following procedure, Will, especially now that.
WILL: Enraged, he PUNCHES the receiver through the wall.
FRED: Forget your pager?
WILL: I beeped you over two hours ago. Got a fax from the lab. Murder weapon was a 357 Ruger.
FRED: I beeped you over two hours ago. Got a fax from the lab. Murder weapon was a 357 Ruger.
WILL: And something else that might interest Remember this?
FRED: And something else that might interest Remember this?
WILL: One of the paperbacks we found in Kay Connell's knapsack.
FRED: One of the paperbacks we found in Kay Connell's knapsack.
WILL: That's right.
FRED: Mrs. Connell found this copy in the It's signed. Personally.
WILL: This is a local writer. Kay had all his books. I think we should check it out.
FRED: This is a local writer. Kay had all his books. I think we should check it out.
WILL: I don't think it'll lead anywhere. Well. If he's local. Give him a call.
A MAN: in the distance, walking along the road. Towards Dr. Agee's. He's in his forties. Short, shoulders sloped. Wears a beige, zip-up windbreaker, khakis, brown desert boots.
WALTER BYRD: has a bulky hearing aid in one ear. Is looking down at the road. Glances up.
SUDDENLY: Byrd turns in the other direction, starts walking fast. Will leaps out of the Cherokee and heads after him.
WALTER BYRD: his short legs pumping, spots a TOUR BUS across the road. Veers over to it.
WILL: a runner's stride. Weaves through PEOPLE. Closing in on Byrd. Sees his plan. Cuts across the road just as.
OLD LADY: I don't think you should move.
OLD LADY: You sure you're okay?
WILL: I'm fine.
OLD LADY: Careful not to bleed on my interior.
WILL: Walter Byrd.
WALTER: When I was seven my mother and grandmother took me to Vancouver. We were walking along the street one day when these two men ran past and snatched my grandmother's purse right from under her arm. Right from under her arm. That night a police officer came to our hotel room to ask us questions. Stood the whole time. His uniform looked brand new. His shoes and badge were polished, his billy club, his belt buckle. All perfect. He was like a soldier, but better. Made a huge impression on me. His goodness. Gave me an instant respect for the police. I tried to become a cop when I left high school, but. Congenital problem. Oh. We're here.
WALTER: You know this glacier moves a quarter of an inch every day? And on a clear day you can see all the way over to Newtok. There's a beautiful aviary over there. We can go sometime. It's actually cool for this time of year. Normally the temperature runs about.
WILL: You think this is a nice meeting we're having here? Friendly? Two people getting acquainted? You sick, coward, fuck. I get up every morning of my life just to bring someone like you down. Beating a seventeen year- old girl to death. Washing her afterwards, cleaning her. Make you feel like a real man? I outta end this right now. Take a rock and smash your fucking skull in. I stood right behind you.I saw you look right into his eyes and shoot him. .Seattle's great hero. Shooting his own partner. I saw it all.
WALTER: I stood right behind you.I saw you look right into his eyes and shoot him. .Seattle's great hero. Shooting his own partner. I saw it all.
WILL: That was an accident! You hear me? I didn't know it was him! I didn't know it was him!
WALTER: Then why lie about it? I mean, I'm all for bending the truth. That's what I do in my novels. It's my trade you might say. But why cover it You don't have to tell me if you don't want to. I'm sure you have some reason. Something noble. I have faith in that.
WILL: What's your game, Byrd?
WALTER: No game.
WILL: The phone call. The knapsack.
WALTER: I figured we're partners on this one. I mean, after what I saw.
WILL: Let's get one thing straight, Byrd. We are partners on nothing.
WALTER: I research my novels. I know the procedures. You'd have cuffed me back at the ferry. You'd have called for back- up, read me my rights, and gotten a search warrant for my apartment. You're a well-respected detective. There's no reason for you to be talking to me right now. .except that we could help each other. So. We're at an impasse.
WILL: ( sotto ) You're going to get a phone call.
WALTER: I'm sorry?
WILL: I said you're going to get a phone call.
WALTER: ( perks up ) Kay Connell had a signed copy of one of your books.
WILL: Kay Connell had a signed copy of one of your books.
WALTER: Thought you might find that.
WILL: You're going to be brought in for
WALTER: Down at the station?
WILL: ( hisses ) Yes down at the station.
WALTER: Okay. Okay. Brought in for questioning. Good. I can write this. Ferry's leaving. Something to divert. My gun. You still have my gun, right? Then that's the wild card. Every detective story has a wild card.
WILL: What do you mean, "wild card?"
WALTER: Next ferry's in forty-five minutes. What do you mean "wild card?"
WILL: What do you mean "wild card?"
WALTER: You'll know. At the questioning.
TICKET TAKER: ( to Will ) Full up.
WILL: I have a cold.
ELLIE: Which way are you walking?
WILL: Back to the Lodge.
ELLIE: I needed to get your signature on The report on Detective Eckhart. Chief made me finish it this morning. Said it was taking too long. Aren't you going to read it?
WILL: I trust you. Now I can help you with the Connell case. That writer's coming in tomorrow. Walter
WILL: Duggar called him?
ELLIE: About an hour ago. Said he was more than happy to cooperate. You haven't been sleeping much, have you, Detective Dormer?
WILL: Not really.
ELLIE: Isn't that the difference between a good cop and a bad cop? A good cop can't sleep 'cause a piece of the puzzle's missing. A bad cop can't sleep 'cause his conscience won't let him. You said that once, remember?
WILL: No. But it sounds like something I would've said. See you tomorrow, Ellie.
ELLIE: Oh! I forgot to tell you. The Puffins The baseball game. Our team. .We won.
WILL: ( grabbing it ) Listen to me, you son-of-a-bitch.
RECORDED VOICE: .I saw you look right into his eyes and shoot him. .Seattle's great hero. Shooting his own partner. I saw it all. That was an accident!.
WILL: Goddammit, Byrd!
WALTER: You'd have done the same thing, Will. I know you would.
SUDDENLY: A DARK FIGURE. Appears ahead. Big and hulking.CRASHING towards us. We raise our weapon.quick as a flash.as the FIGURE And in a split second. WE LOCK EYES WITH FIGURE's - his eyes, brown and gentle. CRACK! We fire! The FIGURE grips his gut, falls into the Heart POUNDING. Adrenaline PUMPING. We slosh towards the body. Something.catching our eye.
WILL: I didn't know!
HAP: sitting in the corner. Eating an apple with a penknife.
HAP: You sure about that, buddy?
WILL: INT. WILL'S ROOM - 4:35 A.M. Red-faced, Will leans into the wooden armoire. Shimmying it towards the window.
WILL'S WINDOW: CUT BACK TO:
RACHEL: ( startled by his appearance ) What is it?
WILL: What is it?
RACHEL: There's a guy down the hall. Complaining about the noise. Says he can't sleep.
RACHEL: Are you alright?
WILL: I'm fine.
RACHEL: Did something happen?
WILL: Rachel walks up behind him. His cramming, more desperate. More urgent.
RACHEL: He grabs a magazine.
WILL: The light. It keeps coming in.
RACHEL: He stops. Looks down at her hand. Will suddenly realises what he's doing. Absurd. Pathetic. Pitiful. Slowly turns to face Rachel. Her eyes, looking up at him. His shoulders droop. Exhausted. Rachel reaches up. Catches him in her arms. Strong arms. Caring. Will buries his face in her neck. Wants to be swallowed up. Rachel holds him. Arms encircling. Will breathes her in. Sweet, soft, safe. Looks up. His mouth suddenly finding hers. A kiss, hungry, urgent. His arms move to surround her.
WILL: There was this guy named Weston Dobbs. Twenty-four. Worked as a part-time stock boy in a copy store. Every morning he'd sit at the only window in his apartment and watch an eight year-old boy get picked up by his carpool across the street. And every afternoon he'd watch the boy get dropped off again. He did this for about six months. Until one day he got up the nerve to cross the street and grab the boy before his carpool came. Kept him in his apartment for three days. Tortured him. Raped him. Made him do When he was done, he got a rope and a kitchen stool and hanged the boy in the basement of the apartment building. But he didn't do a good enough job. The little boy's neck didn't break and he died from shock. The landlord found him five days later.
RACHEL: One of your cases?
WILL: Me and Hap. A year and a half ago. I knew the second I met Dobbs that he was guilty. Smug, cold. Dead eyes. We had circumstantial evidence, but nothing to tie him to it. Nothing concrete. Went over every inch of that apartment.
RACHEL: What happened?
WILL: We took some blood samples from the boy's body and planted them in his apartment. Arrested him the next day.
RACHEL: There've been other cases. Where we've changed results. Pushed witnesses. Manipulated evidence. But Dobbs. I wanted Dobbs more than
WILL: There've been other cases. Where we've changed results. Pushed witnesses. Manipulated evidence. But Dobbs. I wanted Dobbs more than
RACHEL: What if someone finds out?
WILL: We're under investigation now. Back in Hap wanted to talk. As soon as we got back. Thought he could work out some kind of deal.
RACHEL: Well, that's not going to happen now.
WILL: Do you think it was wrong? What we did?
RACHEL: There are two kinds of people in Alaska. Those who were born here and those who've come here to escape something in their I wasn't born here, Will. I'm in no position to judge anyone. I'm not about that any more. It's all about what you're willing to live with.
WALTER BYRD: sits at the table. Hair combed, wet. Shirt newly starched. A Styrofoam cup of coffee in front of him. Playing the part. Fred sits opposite him. Report file open. Ellie, next to Fred. Taking notes. She's combed her hair, too.
FRED: In what manner?
WALTER: She was, not quite a "fan." More an avid reader of my detective novels.
ELLIE: When did you first meet her?
WALTER: A year ago. At one of my signings.
FRED: Where you signed this?
WALTER: That's right.
FRED: What happened at that signing?
WALTER: She flattered me about my writing. Asked if she could visit me. To talk about my Did she?
FRED: Did she?
WALTER: Yes. Not that much at first. But then she became more comfortable. Started visiting me every week.
WILL: What was the nature of your relationship?
WALTER: What do you mean, Detective Dormer?
WILL: She was an attractive girl. Did you have sex with her?
WALTER: She was only seventeen.
WILL: But she was an attractive girl.
WALTER: I suppose.
WILL: Did you have sex with her?
WALTER: But you wanted to.
WILL: But you wanted to.
WALTER: I was a mentor to her. You gave her gifts.
WILL: You gave her gifts.
WALTER: Expensive dresses. A heart necklace.
WILL: Expensive dresses. A heart necklace.
WALTER: Doesn't sound like a mentor to me.
WILL: Doesn't sound like a mentor to me.
WALTER: I gave her things she didn't have. Couldn't have. Her family lives on Mr. Connell's disability. It isn't much.
FRED: We understand, Mr. Byrd. You want to sit down, Detective?
WALTER: She wasn't happy. I was someone to talk How do you mean?
FRED: How do you mean?
WALTER: That boyfriend. Randy.
FRED: Randy Stetz?
WALTER: That's right.
WILL: What about him?
WALTER: He. Well, he. I don't want to talk out of school. Kay told me things in the strictest of confidence. As a friend.
FRED: Mr. Byrd. Anything you can tell us could help out with this case.
WALTER: Well. He hit her.
FRED: Are you sure about that?
WALTER: She'd come to me, sometimes in the middle of the night. Bruises all over her back, her upper arms. I pled with her to let me call the police, but she wouldn't hear it. Wanted to keep it a secret.
ELLIE: Randy Stetz beat Kay Connell?
FRED: ( angry )
WALTER: He has a terrible rage. Kay even said he carried a handgun around with him.
FRED: Margaret! Get Judge Biggs on the phone! I'll get another warrant for Stetz's
WALTER: Could I have some more coffee, Detective
ELLIE: over at the coffee machine. Pouring coffee. Glances up at the window. Catches the reflection of the two men. An intense look between them.
FRED: C'mon, Randy.
RANDY: I swear to God. I didn't kill her. I swear to God.
FRED: You look like shit, cowboy.
WILL: That's an understatement.
FRED: Looks like we can wrap this one up. We're getting together for a couple of beers later on. Might not be the Seattle thing to do. But you're welcome to come.
RICH: What do you mean, you can't believe it?
FRANCIS: He was an asshole.
FARRELL: That doesn't mean anything.
FRED: Didn't you grow up with him?
FARRELL: Our dads were on the same boat. We used to wait for them together.
FRANCIS: He used to pick fights at the gas And remember when he did all those donut holes that one summer?
RICH: And remember when he did all those donut holes that one summer?
FRED: Just a bad seed.
FARRELL: How do you like our beer?
WILL: I like it fine.
FRED: What Detective Dormer needs is a little The white nights been hard on you?
RICH: The white nights been hard on you?
WILL: They haven't been easy.
FRANCIS: They don't have titanium shades over at the Pioneer.
RICH: Well no wonder.
FRANCIS: You lose all sense of time.
FARRELL: Better than Fred's home town.
FRED: My people are from Barrow. Way up north.
RICH: In the winter there's no sunlight for five straight months.
FRED: Like being swallowed up in a black hole.
FRED: Nancy Drew! Pull up a seat!
FRANCIS: You hear what happened, Ellie?
ELLIE: Pretty cool.
RICH: Pretty cool.
FARRELL: Rich found the gun.
ELLIE: I know. I heard.
FRED: Something's on Nancy's mind.
ELLIE: I found this out on the beach.
FARRELL: What is it?
ELLIE: Shell casing. 9mm.
FRANCIS: Let it go, Ell. We got the bad guy.
ELLIE: None of us carries a 9mm duty weapon. And the murder weapon was a 357.
RICH: Get a hobby, will ya?
ELLIE: It's a legitimate point, isn't it, Detective Dormer?
WILL: It's legitimate.
ELLIE: Worth pursuing?
WILL: The case is closed, Ellie. I got the next round.
ELLIE: Me, Pop!
ELLIE'S DAD: Ellie? You okay?
ELLIE: Where's all my academy stuff?
WALTER: ( smiles ) Hi, Will.
WILL: What the hell are you doing calling me at the station?
WALTER: I figured we should touch base. Compare notes. I think it went well. What did you think?
WILL: Randy Stetz is in jail.
WALTER: Told you I could write an ending.
WILL: Will holds out his hand. Walter looks at the open hand. Hugs his jacket to him.
WALTER: I thought maybe we could talk some more.
WILL: There's nothing more to talk about.
WALTER: But we work so well together.
WILL: We do nothing well together. Nothing! You understand me?
WALTER: You run on two settings, Will. I've noticed that. You jump from calm to rage in the blink of an eye. That's okay. I do that too. You're not sleeping, are you?
WILL: What the hell do you know?
WALTER: Kay told me. She comes to me, you know. Tells me things. About you. About me.
WILL: I told you that was an accident!
WALTER: Then so was mine.
WILL: Don't you pull that shit with me.
WALTER: I didn't want to kill her, Will. When she called me that night from the party, she'd had a fight with Randy. Wanted to talk. I told her to meet me at our special place. The cabin at the .When she came she was barefoot. And there was liquor on her breath. I only wanted to comfort her. To touch her. She could have at least let me do that. Her skin.it was like everything I'd ever written about.
WILL: Couldn't get it up, Walter?
WALTER: It was when I went to kiss her. She started laughing. I got angry. After all I'd given her. All I'd shared with her. I just wanted to make her stop. That's all. From calm to rage in the blink of an eye.
WILL: Like this?
WALTER: Yes. Like that.
WILL: This an accident, Walter?
WALTER: If you want it to be. It took ten minutes to beat Kay Connell to death. Ten minutes. Get the fuck out of town, Byrd. Leave and never come back.
WILL: It took ten minutes to beat Kay Connell to death. Ten minutes. Get the fuck out of town, Byrd. Leave and never come back.
WALTER: I have a summer house up by Kgun Lake. I'm going to write my next novel there. It's about a famous detective who goes Just kidding. The never coming back part, though. I'm not sure. To tell you the truth this has been kind of fun. Going to the station, meeting all those nice people. Talking with you. I might miss it. I especially like that new detective. Detective Burr. I liked her very much. Has a real
WILL: Fred, standing over by the filing cabinet. Toothpick in his Nyback chuckles.
FRED: If Spencer's not too drunk to fly.
CHIEF NYBACK: Can't talk you into staying for a couple of days? Do some fishing? Show you what normally goes on around here.
WILL: I have to get back.
CHIEF NYBACK: Too bad. .Brought some real class to the place. But, Seattle needs its hero back. Couldn't have done it without you, Will.
WILL: Had a lot of help from Nightmute's
ELLIE: Didn't want to miss anything.
CHIEF NYBACK: Detective Dormer's not leaving for a few Maybe you could drive him to Spencer's.
ELLIE: CHIEF NYBACK
CHIEF NYBACK: Maybe you could drive him to Spencer's.
ELLIE: An awkward beat. Ellie walks over to Will. Looks up. Suddenly throws her arms around him. Will holds his hands out. Not sure what to do. Looks down at the top of Ellie's head.
ELLIE'S HAND: slips down his back. Feeling for a holster. For that 39/13. Nothing. She breaks away. She and Will lock eyes. Hold for a beat. He knows exactly what she was trying to do.
RACHEL: I found a new friend. Will. What is it?
ELLIE: Very funny, Farrell.
ELLIE: Hi, Rachel.
RACHEL: I would have seen if he came back.
ELLIE: Detective Dormer?
RACHEL: What is all this?
WILL: FLIES, bouncing against the screen door. Walter looks around.
WALTER: Where's your back-up?
WILL: No back-up.
WALTER: You're not following procedure.
WILL: Procedure went out the window a long time
WALTER: We're on the same side, Will. You know that. After what we've been through together. We're partners. Bound by a
WILL: That's where you're wrong, Walter. There is no secret. Because the biggest difference between you and me is what we will or will not live with.
WALTER: SUDDENLY, darts out of sight. Swings back into the doorway with a SHOTGUN. BAM! Will's shoulder explodes with blood.
WALTER: You give the police a bad name, Will.
A FIGURE: runs past number one. Big. Shadowy. The flash of a GUN. She wheels toward it. Finger on the trigger. SLO-MO.The FIGURE, passing. Her heart, POUNDING. Her Will Dormer or Walter Byrd? At the last second, she jerks the gun away. The figure disappears. She swallows. Gripping the gun. Follows.
ELLIE: Pulls herself over to a SIDEBOARD for cover. Shrinks behind it. Notices A PLASTIC BAG sticking out from one of the drawers. Nudges it open. A flowered dress, some panty-hose, strands of long dark hair.
WILL: ( softly )
WALTER: Wild card.
WILL: Drop the gun, Walter.
WALTER: That jammed the last time, remember?
WILL: Another J. Brody mystery.
WILL: God, you're a pain in the ass. You're shot.
ELLIE: You're shot.
WILL: You, too.
ELLIE: I'm going to make a tourniquet.
WILL: Walter Byrd killed Kay Connell. Her things are in the house.
ELLIE: I know.
WILL: Byrd's dead.
ELLIE: You shot Detective Eckhart, didn't you?
WILL: A pained looks crosses Ellie's face.
ELLIE: Did you mean to?
WILL: No. But I covered it up. I lied.
ELLIE: RAIN, drumming down around them. Will, takes a deep breath.
WILL: Because I just couldn't be wrong. Don't ever get that way, Ellie. Don't ever lose your way. It blurs the line.
ELLIE: This one looks worse.
WILL: ( whispers ) Just let me sleep, Ellie. Let me sleep.
ELLIE: Will opens his eyes. She ties the second sock around his She gets up. Slips her arms under his shoulders. Starts hoisting him up. Will. Struggling to his knees. Every inch of him, screaming in pain. Gets to his feet. Arm slung around this tiny, young woman.
WILL: What about your shoulder?
ELLIE: Don't worry. I'll have a cool scar.
