LOUIS: So you want me to tell you the story of my life.
MALLOY: That's what I do. I interview people. I collect lives. F.M. radio. F.F.R.C. I just interviewed a genuine hero, a cop who -
LOUIS: ( quietly interrupting ) You'd have to have a lot of tape for my story. I've had a very unusual life.
MALLOY: So much the better. I've got a pocket full of tapes.
LOUIS: You followed me here, didn't you?
MALLOY: Saw you in the street outside. You seemed interesting. Is this where you live?
LOUIS: It's just a room.
MALLOY: So shall we begin? What do you do?
LOUIS: I'm a vampire. Malloy laughs.
MALLOY: See? I knew you were interesting. You mean this literally, I take it?
LOUIS: Absolutely. I was watching you watching me. I was waiting for you in that alleyway. And then you began to speak.
MALLOY: Well, what a lucky break for me.
LOUIS: Perhaps lucky for both of us. Still in shadow he turns from the window and approaches the table.
LOUIS: I'll tell you my story. All of it. I'd like to do that very much. Malloy is uneasy as he studies the shadowy figure, fascinated but afraid.
MALLOY: You were going to kill me? Drink my Yes but you needn't worry about that now. Things change. Louis stands opposite, hand on the chair. Malloy is You believe this, don't you? That you're a vampire? You really We can't begin this way. Let me turn on the light.
LOUIS: Yes but you needn't worry about that now. Things change. Louis stands opposite, hand on the chair. Malloy is You believe this, don't you? That you're a vampire? You really We can't begin this way. Let me turn on the light.
MALLOY: You believe this, don't you? That you're a vampire? You really We can't begin this way. Let me turn on the light.
LOUIS: We can't begin this way. Let me turn on the light.
MALLOY: But I thought vampires didn't like the light.
LOUIS: We love it. I only wanted to prepare you. Louis pulls the chord of the overhead naked light bulb.
LOUIS' FACE: Appears inhumanly white, eyes glittering. Inhuman or not alive. the effect is subtle, beautiful and ghastly.
MALLOY: Good God! He struggles to suppress fear and understand.
LOUIS: Don't be frightened. I want this The light appears to go out by itself and suddenly Louis is in the chair, dimly lit by the street-light from the window. The cassette is turning.
MALLOY: How did you do that?
LOUIS: The same way you do it. A series of simple gestures. Only I moved too fast for you to see. I'm flesh and blood, you see. But not human. I haven't been human for two hundred Malloy is speechless, frightened yet enthralled.
LOUIS: What can I do to put you at ease? Shall we begin like David Copperfield? I am born, I grow up. Or shall we begin when I was born to darkness, as I call it. That's really where we should start, don't you think?
MALLOY: You're not lying to me, are you?
LOUIS: Why should I lie? 1791 was the year it happened. I was twenty-four - younger than you are now.
MALLOY: But times were different then. I was a man at that age. The master of a large plantation just south of New Orleans.
LOUIS: But times were different then. I was a man at that age. The master of a large plantation just south of New Orleans.
DISSOLVE: EXT. LOUISIANA - DAY ( 1791 ) A disheveled Louis, hair in pigtail, in deep pocket frock coat, rides his horse through the fields of indigo, passing an overseer and slaves at work. He passes slave quarters and the distant colonial mansion of Pointe du Lac. He comes to a small parish church and a graveyard. he dismounts and walks through the tombs to an elaborate one in Greek Style.
LOUIS: You're calling me a cheat?
GAMBLER: I'm calling you a piece of shit - The Gambler pulls out a pearl-handled pistol and points it at Louis. The crowd hushes and draws back. Louis smiles drunkenly and stands. he rips open his lace shirt, exposing his chest.
LOUIS: Then do me a favor. Get rid of this piece of shit. The Gambler's finger on the trigger. His hand shakes.
LOUIS: You lack the courage of your convictions, sir. Do it. LESTAT, a hooded figure in the corner, smiles from beneath the shadow of his hood. Gleaming blue eyes.
LOUIS: My invitation was open to anyone. Sailors, thieves, whores and EXT. WHARF - NIGHT Louis, quite insensible, being propped up against a wall by the whore in a dank wharf over the water. The pimp rifles his pockets, then pulls a knife, about to slice his throat, when a shadow falls over him. He turns, and we see the face of Lestat, who lifts him into the air by his throat, breaking his neck. the whore screams and Lestat's other hand clamps over her mouth. Lestat drags her towards him. Louis falls to the ground, supported no more, insensible. Close on his face, as we hear the last breaths of life of the whore, But it was a vampire that accepted.
LESTAT: They would have killed you -
LOUIS: Then my luck would have changed.
LESTAT: You want death? Is it death you Lestat floats down on top of him, then lifts him in the air, draws his head back by the hair and sinks his teeth in his neck.
LOUIS: Lestat floats down on top of him, then lifts him in the air, draws his head back by the hair and sinks his teeth in his neck.
LESTAT: Floats higher, with Louis in his arms, draining his blood. One hand reaches out and grips a rope, hanging from a shipmast. The other holds Louis. He withdraws his teeth, and looks into Louis' drained face.
LESTAT: You still want death? Or have you tasted it enough? Louis can barely get the words out.
LOUIS: Lestat smiles and lets him go. Louis falls and plummets into the water below.
LOUIS' FACE: Coming to the surface, in the water lapping by the wharf. The bodies of the whore and thief float beside him. He looks up and sees Lestat way above him, dangling from the rope of the shipmast.
MALLOY: That's how it happened?
LOUIS: No. The Gift of Darkness requires more than that, as you'll see.
LOUIS: Who the hell are you? What are you doing in my house?
LESTAT: And a beautiful house it is too. Yours is a good life, isn't it? Louis takes aim. Lestat puts his hand over the barrel. Louis fires. The bullet tears a hole in Lestat's hand. Lestat is unfazed. He takes the gun from Louis' hand and throws it away. His hand begins to heal.
LESTAT: You're not afraid of anything, are Why should I be? Louis reaches for his sword, hanging by the bed, and point it. Lestat laughs indulgently. He draws closer.
LOUIS: Why should I be? Louis reaches for his sword, hanging by the bed, and point it. Lestat laughs indulgently. He draws closer.
LESTAT: Are you going to put that through me too? Ruin my beautiful clothes? He comes closer to Louis, right up to his face, so the sword passes through his waistcoat.
LESTAT: Were all last night's promises for He reaches out with his now-healed hand and plucks out the sword.
LOUIS: What do you want from me?
LESTAT: I've come to answer your prayers. You want to die, don't you? Life has no meaning anymore, does it? Lestat sits down on the bed, drawing up one knee. Louis is becoming spellbound.
LESTAT: The wine has no taste. The food sickens you. There seems no reason for any of it, does there? But what if I could give it back to you? Pluck out the pain and give you another life? And it would be for all time? And sickness and death could never touch you again? The vampire theme rises, with the sound of a heartbeat.
DISSOLVE: EXT. GRAVEYARD - NIGHT The camera drifts through the graveyard where Louis' wife is buring. Everything is lit with an eerie glow, as if seen through some unearthly eye.
LESTAT: Vampires, that's what we are. Creatures of darkness, only we see it that darkness more clearly than any mortal has ever seen. Louis and Lestat drifting, dreamlike, through the overhanging vines, comes to the grave of his wife and child. Above the crypt, the statue of angel, mother and Wouldn't it be sweet to bid pain goodbye? To wave away anguish and grief? To embrace the peace of the unending night? The marble fingers of the child on the statue move. The angel raises her head and has the face of Louis wife, Diane. she raises her hand and touches Louis tear- streamed face. The child speaks.
LESTAT: Wouldn't it be sweet to bid pain goodbye? To wave away anguish and grief? To embrace the peace of the unending night? The marble fingers of the child on the statue move. The angel raises her head and has the face of Louis wife, Diane. she raises her hand and touches Louis tear- streamed face. The child speaks.
MARBLE CHILD: Louis reaches out to embrace them and finds himself touching cold marble. He cries out in anguish-
LOUIS: They are gone, Louis. Death took them. Death which you can now INT. LOUIS BEDROOM - NIGHT Louis, thrashing on the bed in a delirium. Lestat places a hand on his forehead and soothes him.
LESTAT: They are gone, Louis. Death took them. Death which you can now INT. LOUIS BEDROOM - NIGHT Louis, thrashing on the bed in a delirium. Lestat places a hand on his forehead and soothes him.
LOUIS: INT. LOUIS BEDROOM - NIGHT Louis, thrashing on the bed in a delirium. Lestat places a hand on his forehead and soothes him.
NO!!!!!: INT. LOUIS BEDROOM - NIGHT Louis, thrashing on the bed in a delirium. Lestat places a hand on his forehead and soothes him.
LESTAT: You have to ask me for this. You have to want it, do you hear me?
LOUIS: Give it to me!!!
LESTAT: Vampires. We thrive on blood.
LOUIS: I want it! Lestat bends close as if to drink Louis' blood. Louis does not shrink back, but stares into his eyes. Lestat draws back, then stands up and goes to the French Tomorrow night. You must prove yourself. I will give you the choice I never had. He looks outside.
LESTAT: Tomorrow night. You must prove yourself. I will give you the choice I never had. He looks outside.
LESTAT: The sun's coming up. Watch it carefully. If you come with me tomorrow, you'll never see it He leaves. Louis sits dazed, staring at the empty French window. The sun rises with unnatural beauty, over the swamplands and the plantation, filling the room, striking water-pitcher, glass, mirror, and the picture of his dead wife.
LESTAT: Your grief has unhinged you. You've let your estate rot. In the woods beyond the quarters, the white overseer is whipping a black slave, with horrifying savagery.
LESTAT: You let your overseer run riot, work your slaves to the bone. We'll start with him.
LOUIS: How do you mean, start?
LESTAT: Call him. Louis calls.
LOUIS: The overseer turns and comes towards them, with the bloodied whip.
LESTAT: Why the bloody whip, Carlos? The overseer looks into his eyes, shivers with terror, drops the whip and runs for the trees. Lestat is on him in an instant. He sinks is teeth in his neck. Louis runs to him, tries to pull him off. But Lestat turns to Louis and smiles, with his bloodied mouth.
LESTAT: Let's call that a start.
LOUIS: I can't do it.
LESTAT: You've just done it -
LOUIS: Kill me if you will, but I can't do He flees, as Lestat ends to finish off the overseer.
LESTAT: Sitting collected at the head of the steps.
LOUIS: Backs away as Lestat rises and descends the steps so fluidly he hardly seems to move.
LESTAT: Don't worry. He was white trash, they come at two a penny. I dumped him in the swamp and untied the slave, licked his wounds clean.
LOUIS: You're the devil, aren't you? That's who you are.
LESTAT: ( gently ) I wish I were. But if I were, what would I want with you?
LOUIS: I can't go through with it, I tell Your perfect. Your bitter and you're strong.
LESTAT: Your perfect. Your bitter and you're strong.
LOUIS: But why do you want me?
LESTAT: Because you're as strong as I was when I was alive. Louis takes out his flask and drinks. Drunkenly, he turns and heads for a nearby swamp.
LESTAT: You really want to be with them?
LOUIS: Yes. Kill me. Kill me like you promised -
LESTAT: You asked for death. I didn't promise it - In a quiet rage, Lestat raise his fist and shatters the marble face stone, revealing a coffin below. His fist shatters that in turn, revealing the half-rotted body of a women, holding an infant, no longer recognizable as individuals, a tangle of gruesome rotted hair, flesh, eaten away lace, insects and worms crawling over Louis gasps.
LESTAT: It's not your wife and child my friend. It's death. Just that simple. Think and choose. It happens to everyone. Except us. Lestat stares at him, smiling, becoming a hazy dreamlike vision, then hyperclear. Louis again is spellbound. He drops the flask, which shatters on the Lestat appears angelic in his radiance.
LESTAT: We shall be this way always, my friend. Young as we are now. I'm lonely for a companion, lonely for your strength. But I'm not that lonely. Do you want to come or not? Louis capitulates in one long sigh.
LOUIS: Lestat comes closer, smiling.
LESTAT: Did I hear a yes?
LOUIS: Lestat embraces Louis, obscuring his face. He drinks his blood. We hear two heartbeats, out of sync, coming together. We see Louis' face, growing paler, paler, as his blood is drained. His eyes stare upwards, losing their focus.
LOUIS' POV: The moon, through hanging vines. The marble statue of his wife and child smile at him, as if come alive. Her hair blows in the breeze, wonderful gold tresses, the child's fingers reach out.
LESTAT: I've drained you to the point of death. If you drink from me you live for ever. If I leave you here you die. Lestat lifts his hand to his lips and blows Louis a No. Don't leave me here. Give it to Lestat lifts his own right wrist to his teeth. Fangs slash his own flesh, blood falls.
LOUIS: No. Don't leave me here. Give it to Lestat lifts his own right wrist to his teeth. Fangs slash his own flesh, blood falls.
LESTAT: You're sure?
LOUIS: Louis rises to accept the first drops with his open mouth. Lestat gathers him up, as Louis clamps his hand on Lestat's arm and drinks from the wrist. The VAMPIRE THEME swells. Lestat watches him drink his wrist with wry amusement. Louis finishes, staggers away from him as if drunk.
LOUIS' POV: Vampire vision. The world is transformed, the swamp, the moon, the clouds, the cry of the night birds all come to him with unnatural clarity. He looks down with pity at the corpses of his wife and child who appear beautiful in death now rather than repulsive. He closes the lid of the coffin and replaces it in the ground, astonished at the ease of it. He turns and stares at Lestat whom he sees now with vampire's vision. Lestat's eyes are brighter, his buttons are glimmering in the light. Everything is clearer, brighter, containing more facets of light and Lestat leads him into the swamp. Everything astonished Louis, as if he's never seen it before. Louis is suddenly racked by shudders of pain.
LESTAT: Stop staring at my buttons. Didn't I tell you it was going to be fun? Lestat leads him into the swamp. Everything astonished Louis, as if he's never seen it before. Louis is suddenly racked by shudders of pain.
LESTAT: You're body's dying. Pay no attention. It will take twenty minutes at most.
LOUIS: Louis dry-retches.
LESTAT: It happens to us all. Lestat wipes Louis' brow.
LESTAT: Come, you're going to feed now.
LOUIS: I want a woman. Lestat laughs and his laughter echoes like bells in Louis' ears.
LESTAT: That doesn't matter anymore, Louis. You'll see. Come.
LESTAT: They're all beautiful now. Men, women, the old, the young.simply because they are alive. - The slave walks towards them in the darkness. A crucifix gleams round his neck.
LESTAT: Take him.
LOUIS: The crucifix -
LESTAT: Forget the crucifix. Take him. Louis hesitates.
LESTAT: Resist no more Louis. Feed. The slave looks up and sees them. Two gleaming white beings standing before him with devil's eyes. The he Louis can resist him no more. He swoops on him with a vampire's rapid movement, brings him to the ground and sinks his teeth in his neck. Close on Louis feeding on the slave, the magnificent body shuddering in its death-throes. Lestat stands above, laughing. The slave dies. Louis rises from him, drunkenly, engorged with blood.
LOUIS: What have I done?
LESTAT: You have fed. You were made for Louis looks down at the body of the slave. Lestat's laughter echoes around him.
LOUIS: Dear God, what have I done?
LESTAT: You've killed Louis. And enjoyed Lestat laughs harder. Louis runs from him, screaming in EXT. GRAVEYARD - NIGHT Louis reaches his wife's grave. He falls to his knees, throws back his head and bares his new fangs to the Dear God, what have I become????
LOUIS: Dear God, what have I become????
MALLOY: You said the slave had a Oh, that rumor about crosses?
LOUIS: Oh, that rumor about crosses?
MALLOY: You can't look at them.
LOUIS: Nonsense, my friend. I can look on anything I like. And I am particularly fond of looking on The story about stakes through the The same. As you would say today. Bull shit.
MALLOY: The story about stakes through the The same. As you would say today. Bull shit.
LOUIS: The same. As you would say today. Bull shit.
MALLOY: What about coffins?
LOUIS: Coffins. coffins unfortunately are a necessity.
LESTAT: Yes, that's you, my handsome friend. And you'll look that way till the stars fall from heaven.
LOUIS: It can't be.
LESTAT: Give it time. You're like a man who loses a limb and still imagines he feels pain. It will pass. And we must sleep now. I can feel the sun EXT. POINTE DU LAC Dawn spreading over the plantation.
LESTAT: You must get into it. It's the only safe place for you when the light And if I don't?
LOUIS: And if I don't?
LESTAT: The sun will destroy the blood I've given you. Every tissue, every vein. The fire in this lantern could do that too. Louis approaches the coffin, hands trembling as he peers into it.
LESTAT: Don't be afraid. In moments you'll be sleeping as soundly as you ever slept. And when you awake I'll be waiting for you, and so will all the world. Louis crawls into the coffin, fearful yet fascinated.
LOUIS: You told me something earlier. You said you didn't have a choice. Was that true? Lestat smiles bitterly and nods.
LESTAT: Someday I'll tell you. We have a lot of time to talk to each other. You might say. we have all the time we shall ever need. He closes the lid. Total darkness. Sounds of Louis' panicked breathing. Of his prayer again.
LOUIS: Dear God, what have I done?
LESTAT: Your wealth, dear Louis, is inestimable. Your income from cotton alone will keep us in comfort for a century. Louis just stares at him.
LESTAT: You'll get used to killing. Just forget about that mortal coil. You'll become accustomed to things all too quickly.
LOUIS: Do you think so? Yvette enters, stands behind him, staring at Lestat with loathing.
YVETTE: You are not hungry, sir.
LESTAT: Au contraire, my dear. He could eat a horse. Lestat laughs loudly. Louis turns and looks at Yvette. Her beautiful forehead in the candlelight, the veins pulsing on her neck and her hands.
LOUIS: I will finish it, Yvette. Now leave She turns and runs from the table. Lestat leans towards Can't you pretend, you fool? Don't give the game away. We're lucky to have such a home. His hand snakes out under the table. It comes up holding a large grey rat.
LESTAT: Can't you pretend, you fool? Don't give the game away. We're lucky to have such a home. His hand snakes out under the table. It comes up holding a large grey rat.
LESTAT: Pretend to drink, at least. He bares his fangs and slices the rat's throat. He pours the blood into a crystal glass.
LESTAT: Such fine crystal shouldn't go to He hands the glass to Louis. Louis drinks the blood and stares at it in surprise, then at the dead rat on the fine lace tablecloth.
LESTAT: I know. It gets cold so fast.
LOUIS: We can live like this? Off the blood of animals? Lestat shrugs.
LESTAT: I wouldn't call it living. I'd call it surviving. A useful trick if you're caught for a month on a ship at sea. Lestat strokes the belly of the dead rat, studying it There's nothing in the world now that doesn't hold some.
LESTAT: There's nothing in the world now that doesn't hold some.
LOUIS: Yes. And I'm bored with this prattle - He throws the rat away.
LESTAT: Yes. And I'm bored with this prattle - He throws the rat away.
LOUIS: But we can live without taking human life. It's possible.
LESTAT: Anything is possible. But just try it for a week. Come into New Orleans and let me show you some real sport! He rises. Louis follows.
TERESA: Come on, mon cher. The best in the colony. Once you touch this you'll never go to any other tavern again.
LESTAT: You think so, cherie? But what if I'd rather taste your lips?
TERESA: My lips are even sweeter still. She kisses him. He lets his tongue play with hers, then runs it down her neck. She swoons with pleasure. Then he sinks his teeth gently in her neck, looking playfully behind at Louis, who if appalled and ANTICS ON THE STAGE Laughter rocks the tavern. Lestat slips the pale and dead Teresa into a chair beside him and folds her hands on the table. No one notices. He lays gold coins on the table and touches Louis' knee.
LESTAT: Let's get out of here! Lestat rushes out, thrilled with himself.
LOUIS: Have you ever been caught?
LESTAT: Of course not. It's so easy you almost feel sorry for them. They walk down the crowded night street, full of ladies in their finery, freed slaves, whores, sailors etc.
LESTAT: The trick is not to think about it. See that one? The widow St. Clair? she had that gorgeous young fop murder her husband. She's perfect for you. Go ahead.
LOUIS: But how do you know?
LESTAT: Read her thoughts.
LOUIS: I can't.
LESTAT: The dark gift is different for each of us. But one thing is true of everyone. We grow stronger as we go He leads Louis closer to them.
LESTAT: Take my word for it. She blamed a slave for his murder. And do you know what they did to him? He smiles at the young man, who smiles in return.
LESTAT: The evildoers are easier. And they taste better.
LESTAT: You whining coward of a vampire who prowls the night killing rats and poodles. You could have finished us Louis throws himself on Lestat with extraordinary force, pummeling him towards the trees.
LOUIS: What have you done to me? You've condemned me to hell.
LESTAT: I don't know any hell - Louis hurls him against tree after tree with a strength he never knew he had.
LOUIS: You want to see me kill? Watch me kill you then - He drags him to the ground an throttles him. Lestat looks up at him, amazed and amused at the same time.
LESTAT: What strength, my friend, what strength. I remember why I chose you now. Lestat squirms from his grip, seemingly effortlessly.
LESTAT: But you can't kill me, Louis. Nor I He ruffles Louis' hair, with wry affection.
LESTAT: Feed on what you want, mon cherie. Rats, chickens, doves, goats. I'll leave you to it and watch you come round. Just remember, life without me would be even more unbearable. He smiles. A sly, pleasurable secret secret smile.
WIFE: Yes. please. She grabs his fingers and kisses them, thinking him to be her husband. Lestat gently disengages himself and EXT. SLAVE-HUT - NIGHT The woman's scream pierces the sky, as Lestat walks into the night.
LESTAT: Consider yourself lucky. In Paris a vampire has to be clever for many reasons. Here all one needs is a pair of fangs.
LOUIS: Paris? You came from Paris?
LESTAT: As did the one who made me.
LOUIS: Tell me about him. You must have learnt something from him! It had to happen for you as it did for me!
LESTAT: I learnt absolutely nothing. I wasn't give a choice, remember?
LOUIS: But you must know something about the meaning of it all, you must know where we come from, why we. Lestat spits out in anger.
LESTAT: Why? Why should I know these things? Do you know them? The drumming grows outside.
LESTAT: ( gripping his temples ) That noise! It's driving me mad! We've been in the country for weeks, with nothing but that They know about us. They see us dine on empty plates and drink from empty glasses.
LOUIS: They know about us. They see us dine on empty plates and drink from empty glasses.
LESTAT: Come the New Orleans then. There's an opera on tonight. A real french opera! We can dine in splendor!
LOUIS: I respect life, don't you see? For each and every human life I have Respect me a little then. I'm the only life you know. Louis stares. Lestat turns childishly, petulantly.
LESTAT: Respect me a little then. I'm the only life you know. Louis stares. Lestat turns childishly, petulantly.
LESTAT: You'll soon run out of chickens, He walks out, humming a French aria. Louis stares at his plate.
YVETTE: Michi Louis? You don't want any Louis laughs harshly.
LOUIS: No, ma cher. I need no supper. Is all well at Pointe Du Lac tonight? Yvette draws closer. Light reveals her beauty.
YVETTE: We worry about you master. When do you ride about the fields? How long since you've been to the slave quarters? Everywhere there is death. Animals, men. Are you our master still at all? Louis watches her sadly. He's getting hungry. Her throat is long and slender, her breasts are gorgeous.
LOUIS: ( dazed ) Leave me alone now, Yvette.
YVETTE: I will not go unless you listen to me. Send away this new friend of yours. The slaves are frightened of him. They are frightened of you. She comes closer, and he can hear her beating heart. She touches his hair. He takes her hand and brings it to his lips.
LOUIS: I am frightened of myself, Yvette. He kisses her wrist. She suddenly gasps, sharply, withdraws her hand. She sees her wrist is red with blood. She sees the blood on his lips. She screams. Louis stands.
LOUIS: Hush, Yvette - She screams even louder. Louis clamps his hand over her mouth. Her hand grips the table-cloth, pulls, bringing the empty glasses and crockery to the floor. In horror, Louis realizes he has broken her neck. He brings her cut wrist to his lips, then drops it, revolted. He carries her body outside, grief-stricken. The drumming grows louder.
LOUIS: This place is cursed. Damned, do you hear me? And your master is the He places the body of Yvette in a rocking chair on the Get out while you can. You're free They don't move. They stare at him blankly.
LOUIS: Get out while you can. You're free They don't move. They stare at him blankly.
LOUIS: Unlike me, you are no free men. He turns behind him, and looks at the mansion, all candelabra and chandeliers lighted, all windows open.
LOUIS: Do I have to convince you? He rushed up the stairs, snatches up the candelabra and sets fire to the drapes. He goes from window to window, lighting drapes, lace curtains, everything.
LESTAT: You fool, what have you done?
LOUIS: What you wouldn't do. It's almost sunrise. It will be the sun or the fire. You said they can kill me. The sun or the fire! Louis stands there, weakened, then collapses onto the floor. Lestat darts forward and catches him before he drops. He runs out the shattered window, carrying him on his shoulder.
LOUIS: Where are we?
LESTAT: Where do you think, my idiot friend? We're in a nice filthy cemetery. Does this make you happy? Is this fitting and proper enough? Louis laughs softly.
LOUIS: We belong in hell.
LESTAT: And what if there is no hell, or they don't want us there? Ever think of that?
MALLOY: You loved Yvette.
LOUIS: Can a vampire feel love?
MALLOY: You loved your wife, surely.
LOUIS: I was human then. Might as well ask can an angel feel love. Both are blesses or cursed with a certain. detachment. Though whether angels take as long to learn it as I, I will never know. He looks directly at Malloy, shocking him with his Yes, I loved Yvette. As I loved Pointe Du Lac. And as with each thing I loved, I destroyed it.
LOUIS: Yes, I loved Yvette. As I loved Pointe Du Lac. And as with each thing I loved, I destroyed it.
WHORE #1: You're skin's icy.
LESTAT: Not always. He presses his thumb on her neck and holds her tight, sinking his teeth into her neck. After a time she falls to the bed, dead. he turns to the other.
LESTAT: Your friend has no head for wine.
WHORE: She's stupid. I can warm that cold skin of yours better than she can.
LESTAT: Do you think so? He rubs her breast.
WHORE: Why you're warm now.
LESTAT: Ah, but the price is pretty high. Your sweet friend - I exhausted He bites her in turn, drinks her blood. She does into the swoon. Louis looks on in disgust. He stands.
LOUIS: I'm leaving you. I can't stand this any longer. Lestat pulls away from the whore.
LESTAT: What, no flowery speeches? About what a monster I am? What a vulgar I'm not interested in you. You disgust me. I'm interested in my own nature and know I can't trust you to tell me the truth about me.
LOUIS: I'm not interested in you. You disgust me. I'm interested in my own nature and know I can't trust you to tell me the truth about me.
LESTAT: What do you imagine you are Louis?
LOUIS: I don't pretend to know.
LESTAT: Don't you understand, Louis, that you alone of all creatures can see death with impunity. you alone under the rising moon can strike like the hand of God. The girl moans.
LOUIS: Lestat, she's alive!!!
LESTAT: Vampires are killers. Predators, who's all seeing eyes were meant to give them detachment. The girl moans again, open her eyes.
LOUIS: The girl, Lestat -
LESTAT: I know. Let her alone. He slashes her wrist with his teeth, and lets the blood drip into a glass.
LESTAT: You think you can be human. You think you can go back. But you can't. You live off the blood of rats now Louis. How human is that? The girls moans again. Lestat drinks that glass.
LESTAT: Lie still, love. The girl begins to scream. Lestat picks her up.
LESTAT: You're tired love, you want to He walks to his coffin, puts her inside and sits on the lid. We hear muffled screaming and banging from inside.
LOUIS: Why do you do this Lestat?
LESTAT: I like to do it. I enjoy it. Take you aesthete's taste to purer things. Kill them swiftly if you will, but do it! For now doubt, you are a killer Louis. Ah! He stands up. The girl pushes the lid off, hysterical. She looks at Louis.
GIRL: It's a coffin, a coffin! Get me Of course it's a coffin. You're dead, love. Louis screams at Lestat
LESTAT: Of course it's a coffin. You're dead, love. Louis screams at Lestat
LOUIS: Lestat - finish this -
LESTAT: You finish her - if you feel so much - The girl grabs Louis and pleads.
GIRL: You won't let me die, will you? You'll save me?
LESTAT: But it's too late, love. Look at your wrist, you breast. He picks her up again. He turns to Louis laughing.
LESTAT: Unless I make her one of us.
LOUIS: THEN YOU KILL HER!!!!! The girl screams. Louis puts his hands to his ears. Then Lestat, in a fit of pique puts his teeth to her neck. She dies at last. A terrible silence descends. Lestat looks at Louis.
NO!!!: THEN YOU KILL HER!!!!! The girl screams. Louis puts his hands to his ears. Then Lestat, in a fit of pique puts his teeth to her neck. She dies at last. A terrible silence descends. Lestat looks at Louis.
LESTAT: THEN YOU KILL HER!!!!! The girl screams. Louis puts his hands to his ears. Then Lestat, in a fit of pique puts his teeth to her neck. She dies at last. A terrible silence descends. Lestat looks at Louis.
LOUIS: My God. to think you. are all I have to learn from.
LESTAT: In the old world, they called it the dark gift, Louis. And I gave it to you. Louis leaves without a word.
MAN: Don't go that way Monsieur. It's the plague. Go back the way you Louis smiles bitterly at these words, repeating them to The way I came. He walks on, following the rats.
LOUIS: The way I came. He walks on, following the rats.
CLAUDIA: Mama, please wake up. Mama, I'm frightened, please wake up. As Louis enters, he sees the woman is dead. Her eyes are being eaten away by rats. Louis gasps in horror. Claudia turns. She is a radiant doll or angel as she stretches out her hand to Louis.
CLAUDIA: Monsieur, please help us. Papa's waiting for us at the ship. Please wake mama, Monsieur. She runs to him. Instinctively, he gathers her in his arms. He looks down pitying on her beautiful face.
LESTAT: Ah, my philosopher, my martyr. "Never take a human life". Well you must admit it is funny. Or is it merely touching? I'm not sure. Louis stares at the unconscious Claudia in horror, then lets her slip gently into a chair. Shamefully he wipes his mouth, sees the tiny wounds on her throat. Lestat snatches up the dead mother from the chair and begins to dance with her in great circles, humming and talking. Her head falls back. Black water flows from her mouth.
LESTAT: Let's make some party of it, shall we? Maybe there's some life in the old lady yet? Louis flees into the street.
LESTAT: Come back, Louis, you are what you are. The plague would have got her within hours anyway. Merciful Death how you love your precious guilt.
LESTAT: All I need to find you Louis is follow the corpses of rats. He bends down to him, surprisingly gently and puts his own coat around him.
LESTAT: Pain is terrible for you. You feel it like no other creature because you are a vampire. You don't want it to go on.
LOUIS: They emerge from the sewer and walk along the
LESTAT: Do what it is in your nature to do. And you will feel as you felt with that child in your arms.
LOUIS: Oh God Lestat. I felt peace. I felt an end to the craving.
LESTAT: That and more. He puts his arm around Louis, to stop his shivering.
LESTAT: Evil is a point of view. God kills, indiscriminately, and so shall we. For no creatures under God are as we are, none so like him as Is God merciless? Greedy and cruel?
LOUIS: Is God merciless? Greedy and cruel?
LESTAT: Ah, but we have even more in common with our creator. come, I am like a mother tonight. I want a child. Louis is baffled. He follows.
LESTAT: She's here, your wounded one.
LOUIS: What are you saying?
LESTAT: You need company, Louis. More congenial than mine. Lestat holds up a candle and walks towards a large four- poster bed. Claudia lies there, angelic, under the coverlet, two marks on her neck.
LOUIS: You remember how you wanted her, the taste of her -
LESTAT: You remember how you wanted her, the taste of her -
LOUIS: I didn't want to kill her.
LESTAT: Don't worry, Louis, you're conscience is clear. You left her Lestat shakes her gently.
LESTAT: Claudia, Claudia, listen to me. You're ill, my precious and I'm going to give you what you need to get well.
LOUIS: Lestat, what do you mean? Louis runs at him, but Lestat brushes him aside effortlessly, so he falls to the floor. Lestat bites his wrist and presses the bleeding wound to the child's mouth. He winces in pain.
LESTAT: That's it dear. More. You must drink it to get well. Claudia sucks on the wound, reviving, making little noises like a person waking from sleep. Louis rises to his feet as Claudia clutches Lestat's arm, sucking the blood fiercely. Lestat moans.
LESTAT: Stop, that's enough. No more. He pulls her loose and she growls and stares at him with big clear astonished eyes.
CLAUDIA: I want more.
LOUIS: What have you done? Lestat puts her down on the bed and sits beside her, holding his wrist, obviously in pain.
CLAUDIA: Yes, cherie, of course you want more. And I'll show you how to get it. You drink from morals, my beauty, but from me? Never again. Still suffering, Lestat pulls the bell-rope.
LESTAT: Yes, cherie, of course you want more. And I'll show you how to get it. You drink from morals, my beauty, but from me? Never again. Still suffering, Lestat pulls the bell-rope.
MAID: Ah, quelle Belle enfant! The maid comes near the bed, kneels in front of Claudia. Lestat lays his hand on the maid's throat and Claudia watches keenly.
LESTAT: Gently, cherie. They are so innocent. They must not be made to Claudia lunges for the throbbing vein in the neck, locking on to the flowing blood. The Maid is transfixed. Close on Louis, his anguish, his fascinated horror.
LOUIS: You are the devil! You are the instrument of Satan!
LESTAT: That's enough, cherie. Stop before the heart stops. He lets the dead maid onto the floor. Claudia looks at the corpse.
CLAUDIA: I want some more.
LESTAT: It's bet in the beginning, lest the death takes you down with it. yes, that's it. My child. My beloved Lestat and Claudia sit on the Louis XVI settee. Claudia is a vision, a doll made out of pearl. Animated, voice Where is Mamma? The words echo in Louis' head, as he puts his hands to his ears.
CLAUDIA: Where is Mamma? The words echo in Louis' head, as he puts his hands to his ears.
LESTAT: Mamma's gone to Heaven, cherie, like that sweet lady over there. They all go to Heaven. And you did very well, cherie. Not a drop spilt. Very good! You're going to be our child now. Lestat takes out his comb and begins to comb her hair.
LESTAT: Your mama's left you with us. She wants you to be happy.
LOUIS: ( whispers ) You are the devil! You are the instrument of Satan!
LESTAT: Shhhh! Do you want to frighten our little daughter?
CLAUDIA: I'm not your daughter.
LESTAT: Yes you are, my dearest. You are mine and Louis' daughter. You see Louis was going to leave us. He was going to go away. But now he's not. He's going to stay and make you Claudia runs over to him. She smiles at him.
CLAUDIA: Louis is conflicted. He cannot leave her. He touches her cheeks, her hair. Same as his. Vampire skin and hair. He draws in his breath, shocked by her beauty, then he embraces her as a father might a daughter. He looks over her shoulder to Lestat.
LOUIS: You fiend. You monster. Lestat smiles
LESTAT: One happy family.
MALLOY: A child vampire! He sees the tape has run out. He rapidly and clumsily sticks in another.
LOUIS: Shall we go on?
MALLOY: He did it to make you stay with Perhaps. He knew me. He knew I would love her more than the waking world. But there was more to it than that. Perhaps in the end he did it - to show me that he could. For he lavished affection on her, there was no doubt about that. Life was very different with madame Claudia, as you can imagine.
LOUIS: Perhaps. He knew me. He knew I would love her more than the waking world. But there was more to it than that. Perhaps in the end he did it - to show me that he could. For he lavished affection on her, there was no doubt about that. Life was very different with madame Claudia, as you can imagine.
DRESSMAKER: Monsieur, I need more light. I shall go slind if you do not bring me a lamp, or let me fit this child during the day. Ouch! She has pricked her hand. A spot of blood appears on her finger Claudia takes her hand.
CLAUDIA: Let me kiss it better. Claudia brings the hand to her lips. The dressmaker abruptly pulls her finger away, in pain again. CLOSEUP - her finger, two holes showing.
LESTAT: Claudia, Claudia, will you never learn? Who will we get now to finish your dress? A little practicality, cherie.
POV: Claudia, the picture of lost innocence, sitting on a bench and crying.
WOMAN: Why are you crying, child? The woman, all solicitude, goes to Claudia.
WOMAN: Are you lost, my love?
CLAUDIA: Hush now, don't cry, We'll find The woman takes Claudia in her arms. Claudia nestles her head in her shoulder, her teeth near her neck.
WOMAN: Hush now, don't cry, We'll find The woman takes Claudia in her arms. Claudia nestles her head in her shoulder, her teeth near her neck.
CLAUDIA: The woman takes Claudia in her arms. Claudia nestles her head in her shoulder, her teeth near her neck.
DOLLMAKER: They are expensive, my dear. Maybe too expensive for a young girl like EXT. STREET - NIGHT Claudia walking along, clutching the doll.
LOUIS' BEDROOM: Where his coffin sits. She slides the lid off, and curls in beside him.
LESTAT: Claudia, Claudia! Didn't I tell you, never in the house! Claudia smiles to herself, keeps playing.
CLAUDIA: September 21st, one hour after sunset. The sky is still violet, the way Louis loves and as always Lestat was gone when we rose. She looks up and sees Louis in the doorway, watching How did you learn to write, The way I learn everything. By watching you. She closes the diary.
LOUIS: How did you learn to write, The way I learn everything. By watching you. She closes the diary.
CLAUDIA: The way I learn everything. By watching you. She closes the diary.
CLAUDIA: But you never let me see you kill, Lestat taught you all you need to know about that.
LOUIS: Lestat taught you all you need to know about that.
CLAUDIA: Infant death, he calls me. Sweet daughter death. You know what he calls you? Merciful death.
LOUIS: He jests.
CLAUDIA: Why does he call you that?
LOUIS: Hush, Claudia don't talk about such things. Show me your book. She opens it. Inside there is a beautiful pen and ink portrait of Louis.
LOUIS: Claudia! You did that?
CLAUDIA: Sit still. It's not finished - She begins to fill in the sketch.
CLAUDIA: Circles the troupe. She comes to a small tent, behind it. At the entrance stands a midget youth.
YOUTH: You want to come inside, lovely? Claudia walks up to him.
YOUTH: Ever been kissed? Claudia shakes her head. He kisses her. Claudia allow her to be kissed, then bites his tongue. he youth struggles, as Claudia holds him and drains him. She lets him go as Louis appears behind her.
CLAUDIA: She's like me, Louis. Small and yet not small at all. Like me. Louis hurriedly draws her away.
CLAUDIA: Another doll? I have ten, you FOCUS ON early 19th Century French dolls - wood, glass, wax, bisque - all around the bedroom, on chairs, on the bed. Some newish, some tattered old.
LESTAT: Well, I thought you could use He hands her the box. It is a fine Parisian Jumeau doll. She likes it and stokes its face.
CLAUDIA: Why always on this night?
LESTAT: What night? What do you mean?
CLAUDIA: You always give me the doll on the same night of the year.
LESTAT: I didn't realize.
CLAUDIA: Is this my birthday? He examines the other dolls.
LESTAT: Some of these are so old and tattered. You should throw them I have. Or there would be twice as But you're the fairest by far.
CLAUDIA: I have. Or there would be twice as But you're the fairest by far.
LESTAT: But you're the fairest by far.
CLAUDIA: You dress me like a doll. You make my hair like a doll. Why? Lestat doesn't answer. Claudia stands up quickly, and strides out into the -
PARLOUR: Where Louis is reading by the window. She walks to a mirrored cabinet, takes out a scissors and begins cutting her hair.
CLAUDIA: You want me to be a doll forever?
LOUIS: Claudia - don't -
CLAUDIA: Why not? She continues cutting. She sees Lestat emerge from her bedroom in the mirror behind her then turns to him, an angelic little boy's face now with soft curls around her face.
CLAUDIA: Can't I change, like everybody She walks past him, back into her bedroom and slams the A beat. Louis looks from the mass of blonde hair on the floor to Lestat. Then a HORRID SCREAM pierces the silence. More screams, which become roars.
CLAUDIA: Which of you did it? Which of you made me the way I am?
LESTAT: What you are? You would be something other than you are?
CLAUDIA: And if I cut my hair again?
LESTAT: It will grow back again!
CLAUDIA: But it wasn't always so! I had a mother once! And Louis - he had a wife! He was mortal the same as she! And so was I!
LOUIS: Claudia - She turns on Lestat.
CLAUDIA: You made us what we are, didn't Stop her Louis!
LESTAT: Stop her Louis!
CLAUDIA: DID YOU DO IT TO ME???? She runs at him with the scissors, scoring his face. The cut heals. She scores it again. It heals again. She stares at him in horror.
CLAUDIA: ( whispering ) How did you do it?
LESTAT: And why should I tell you? It's in my power.
CLAUDIA: Why yours alone? Tell me how it was Be glad I made you what you are! You'd be dead not if I hadn't. He storms out. Louis goes to Claudia and picks her up in his arms.
LESTAT: Be glad I made you what you are! You'd be dead not if I hadn't. He storms out. Louis goes to Claudia and picks her up in his arms.
LOUIS: ( tenderly ) We're immortal. You've always known Tell me why. you've got to tell Louis carries her outside, onto the porch. There is an old flower-seller going by.
CLAUDIA: Tell me why. you've got to tell Louis carries her outside, onto the porch. There is an old flower-seller going by.
LOUIS: You see the old woman? That will never happen to you. You'll never grow old. You will never die.
CLAUDIA: And it means something else too, doesn't it? I shall never, ever grow up. She clutches Louis desperately.
CLAUDIA: I hate him. But I cannot bear to lose you. You're the only companion I have, forever. You taught me everything I know. Please tell me Louis. Tell me how it came to be that I am this. thing. Louis strokes her beautiful face, her hair.
LOUIS: Come. I've something to show EXT. NEW ORLEANS STREETS - NIGHT Louis walking, holding Claudia as if he was about to lose her.
LOUIS: I heard you crying. You were there in a room with your mother. You were hugging her for warmth, crying pitifully as you had been for days. Because your mother was dead. Claudia stares at him, suddenly very cold, very alert.
LOUIS: I opened the shutters. I came into the room. I felt pity for you. Pity, but something else. He can't go on. Claudia's eyes are remorseless.
CLAUDIA: You. fed on me?
LOUIS: And he found me with you. I ran, sickened at what I'd done. Then he cut his wrist and fed you from him. I tried to stop him, but you were a vampire then. And have been every night hereafter.
CLAUDIA: You both did it?
LOUIS: I took your life. He gave you another one. Claudia speaks through indrawn breath.
CLAUDIA: And here it is. And I hate you She runs.
MALLOY: But why did you tell her?
LOUIS: How could I not? She had to know.
MALLOY: And did you lose her? Did she go?
LOUIS: Where would she have gone? She was a child, and beautiful, heartbreaking merciless child. And I had made her that.
LOUIS: I walked all night. I walked as I walked years before when my mind swam with guilt at the thought of killing. I found myself at the A cathedral rising out of the mist, the doors open.
LOUIS: I thought of all the things I had done and couldn't undo. And I longed for one second's peace. Louis walks towards the doors, inside.
LOUIS: I had no fear. If anything I longed for something to happen, for the stones to tremble as I entered the Louis walking down the nave of the church. He stops by the alter.
LOUIS: I almost genuflected from old habit. I almost prayed. Louis sits in a pew.
LOUIS: And then it struck me.
LOUIS' POV: The cross, the statues, the tabernacle.
LOUIS: What if the statues gave an image to nothing? What if I was the supernatural in this cathedral? The only immortal under this roof. And I felt nothing but loneliness. Loneliness to the point of madness. Suddenly a hand is laid on his shoulder. Louis almost jumps. He turns and sees the face of a grey-haired You wish to go to confession? I was about to lock up the church. Louis stares at him, tears in his eyes.
PRIEST: You wish to go to confession? I was about to lock up the church. Louis stares at him, tears in his eyes.
PRIEST: You are troubled, aren't you? Can I It's too late, too late -
LOUIS: It's too late, too late -
PREIST: No, it's never too late. Come. The priest gestures to the confessional. Louis rises, INT. CONFESSIONAL Louis, kneeling in the darkness. The hatch slides back.
LOUIS: Bless me father for I have sinned so often and so long, I don't know how to change nor beg for Son, God is infinite in his capacity to forgive. Tell him from your heart.
PRIEST: Son, God is infinite in his capacity to forgive. Tell him from your heart.
LOUIS: Murders, father, death after death. The woman who died two nights ago in Jackson Square, I killed her. And thousands of others before her. I have walked the streets of New Orleans like the Grim reaper. And fed on human life for my own. I am a vampire, father, and have turned the one I love most of all into on too - The hatch slams down. Louis rises, confused, and the door is flung open, the priest stands there.
PRIEST: Do you know the meaning of Louis rises. Walks out.
LOUIS: Then there is no mercy. His face comes into the light. The priest steps back, You talk of sacrilege. Why if God exists does he suffer me to exist? He bares his fangs. The priest runs, screaming. Gets to the bellrope, begins to ring the bell. Louis swoops on Why does he suffer me to live? Louis takes him, lifting him from the floor, till his feet stop kicking.
LOUIS: You talk of sacrilege. Why if God exists does he suffer me to exist? He bares his fangs. The priest runs, screaming. Gets to the bellrope, begins to ring the bell. Louis swoops on Why does he suffer me to live? Louis takes him, lifting him from the floor, till his feet stop kicking.
LOUIS: Why does he suffer me to live? Louis takes him, lifting him from the floor, till his feet stop kicking.
CLAUDIA: Locked together in hatred - He turns, sees her sitting in the darkness. She is wearing a tiny nightgown of stitched lace and pearls, weirdly adult and seductive. She comes towards him.
CLAUDIA: But I can't hate you Louis. She sprays perfume over her body as she comes nearer.
CLAUDIA: Is this the aroma of a mortal She whispers.
CLAUDIA: Louis. Lover. She kisses his cheek.
CLAUDIA: I was mortal to you. You gave me your immortal kiss. You became my mother and my father. And so I'm yours. Forever. She takes his face in her hands.
CLAUDIA: But now's the time to end it, Louis. Now's the time to leave him.
LOUIS: He'll never let us go. Claudia smiles.
CLAUDIA: Oh. really?
LESTAT: What is it now? You irritate me! Your very presence irritates me!
CLAUDIA: ( sweetly ) Does it?
LESTAT: Yes. And I'll tell you something else! I've met someone who will make a better vampire than both of Is that supposed to frighten me?
CLAUDIA: Is that supposed to frighten me?
LESTAT: You're spoilt because you're an only child. You need a brother. Or I do. I'm weary of you both.
CLAUDIA: I suppose we could people the world with vampires, the three of us.
LESTAT: Not you my dear.
CLAUDIA: You're a liar. But you upset my What plans?
LESTAT: What plans?
CLAUDIA: I came to make peace with you, even if you're the father of lies. I want things to be as they were. Louis perks up, puzzled.
LESTAT: Stop pestering me then!
CLAUDIA: Oh, Lestat. I must do more than that. I've brought a present for Then I hope its a beautiful woman with endowments you will never Claudia stares at him for a moment.
LESTAT: Then I hope its a beautiful woman with endowments you will never Claudia stares at him for a moment.
CLAUDIA: Better than that. She takes his hand and leads him into an inner room. Louis follows behind.
CLAUDIA: You haven't fed enough. I can tell by your color.
LESTAT: Oh, Claudia, you've outdone yourself. Where did you find them?
CLAUDIA: Drunk on brandy wine. A thimbleful. I thought of you when I saw them.
LESTAT: We forgive each other then? Claudia stares at him, sitting. She nods. Lestat bites into the neck of one of the youths, sucks greedily and horribly. Claudia watches him without expression. He finished one, is about to take the other when he staggers. He looks at Claudia.
LESTAT: Absinthe? You gave them absinthe?
CLAUDIA: No. Laudanum. Lestat stares wildly at her, tries to move towards her, then slips to the floor.
LESTAT: Yes. It killed them, unfortunately. But it keeps the blood warm. Lestat tries to rise.
CLAUDIA: Yes. It killed them, unfortunately. But it keeps the blood warm. Lestat tries to rise.
LESTAT: Ah Louis, Louis, she killed them. and let me drink. Louis watches, appalled. He goes to move.
CLAUDIA: Don't Louis -
LESTAT: Louis, put me in my coffin.
CLAUDIA: I'll put you in your coffin. She pulls a knife out from under her shawl, walks rapidly to him and slashes his throat. Blood explodes from it.
LOUIS: Claudia! Don't do this thing!!!
LESTAT: Louis, Louis, I gave you the gift - help me - Claudia lacerates his face. Blood pours from everywhere. She plunges the knife in his chest. He falls back, fangs bared, clutching the knife. Claudia leaps on him then, bites deep into his neck as he dies. Louis screams, runs forward, pulls her away.
LOUIS: What have you done, Claudia - He drags her off Lestat, tries to pull her out of the room. She hisses at him.
CLAUDIA: Louis! Look what's happening to Louis looks. The floor is a sea of blood. Lestat has begun to shrivel, as if he'd been a bag of blood. His skin is shriveling against his bones like parchment, his eyes are slipping back into his skull-like face. His lush, beautiful hair remains unchanged. But his clothes are virtually being emptied of the body. It is no more than bones, wrapped in paper and the pupils of the eyes suddenly roll up into the papered skull.
LOUIS: Lestat. Oh, God forgive us.
CLAUDIA: Don't mock me, Louis. Help me. She stares at the shriveled skeleton in its skin wrapping. She is fascinated. She sees the vampiric blood flow all over the floor. She touches it and brings her finger to her lips.
CLAUDIA: Goodnight, sweet prince, may flights of devils wing you to your Louis walks forward, touches the skeleton, the blonde He's dead, Claudia, dead.
LOUIS: He's dead, Claudia, dead.
CLAUDIA: The one good lesson he taught me, Louis. Never drink from the dead. She stands up, all business suddenly.
CLAUDIA: Help me. We must get rid of him. She drags the coverlet from the table, knocking the crockery over the dead youths, and wraps Lestat's skeleton in it. She takes a bunch of chrysanthemums and places them in his skeleton hands.
CLAUDIA: Should we burn him? Bury him? What would he have liked, Louis?
LOUIS: Don't mock, Claudia.
CLAUDIA: The swamp.
CLAUDIA: In Europe, Louis. We shall meet our own kind. Find the one who made him. Learn what it means.
LOUIS: And suppose the one who made him knows nothing and the vampire who made him knows nothing, and it goes back, nothing proceeding from nothing, until there is nothing! And we must live with the knowledge that there is no knowledge.
LOUIS: And if we find the one who made him? Do we tell him we destroyed his own creation? The vampire Louis drags out the bodies of the boys. He slides them into the waters of the swamp. We see ripples in the water and the churning of alligators, as they attack the corpses. Louis takes Lestat's skeleton in his arms. He slides it into the waters. The alligators speed towards it.
CLAUDIA: He belongs with those reptiles, Louis. He deserved to die.
LOUIS: Then maybe so do we. Every night of our lives. He was my brother. My maker. He gave me this life, whatever it is.
CLAUDIA: I did it for us, Louis. So we could be free. He stands there, saying nothing.
CLAUDIA: Louis, look at me.
LOUIS: ( bitterly ) I can't. Go away from me. Claudia is shocked to her core. She steps back. Louis stares at the rippling waters. Gradually the movement of alligators stops. Then he hears a sound he hasn't heard in years. Soft, choking. He turns, sees Claudia sitting by a cypress tree, like a little girl for the first time in years. She is weeping copiously.
LOUIS: Claudia - You're crying - We see her face, tears of blood running down it. She is heartbroken, lost.
CLAUDIA: You never talked to me like that - in all these years.
LOUIS: And you never cried -
CLAUDIA: I can't bear it when you do - I would die rather than lose you Louis. I would die the way he died. Louis gathers her in his arms.
LOUIS: Hush, Claudia, hush now my dear -
CLAUDIA: Tell me you don't hate me Louis. I did it for you - Louis walks her towards the carriage.
LOUIS: I love you Claudia. Always. And we are free now, Claudia. No Lestat. Just the two of us, beginning the great adventure of our lives. He lifts her into the carriage and drives off, leaving the silent waters of the swamp.
LOUIS: The birds. We forgot about the birds. There's nothing for it but to let them go. He opens the cage, and the canaries fly around the There is a knocking on the door. Claudia falters.
CLAUDIA: What was that?
LOUIS: The workmen must have a trunk - don't stop, cherie - He goes downstairs. Claudia plays a moment, then stops, perturbed. She goes to the window. Then sees something out there that makes her face go white. She screams.
CLAUDIA: THE STAIRWAY Louis walking to the door. The knocking gets louder.
THE STAIRWAY: Louis walking to the door. The knocking gets louder.
THE PARLOUR: Claudia runs for the stairs, after Louis.
THE HALLWAY: Louis reaches the door. The knocking gets louder. He opens the door as -
CLAUDIA: Reaches the stairs. She screams -
CLAUDIA: Don't Louis - But Louis has opened the door. Nothing there. He looks back at Claudia, puzzled, then at the door again when, swooping into his vision comes the nightmare image of -
LESTAT: In filthy swamp-soaked rags, robust again, but his flesh shriveled, covered in scars, his eyes riddled, bloodshot. he roars.
LESTAT: WHERE IS SHE? WHERE IS THAT ACCURSED CHILD? Louis throws his body against the door, slamming it on Lestat's reaching hand. The hand withdraws, as Lestat roars. Louis bolts the door. Louis runs up the stairs, sweeps Claudia in his arms, watching appalled as the door shudders with the force of Lestat's body.
ACCURSED CHILD?: Louis throws his body against the door, slamming it on Lestat's reaching hand. The hand withdraws, as Lestat roars. Louis bolts the door. Louis runs up the stairs, sweeps Claudia in his arms, watching appalled as the door shudders with the force of Lestat's body.
LOUIS: It can't be -
CLAUDIA: It is! Take the back stairwell - Suddenly Lestat crashes through the casement window, scattering blood everywhere, reefing himself on the shattered glass. He tumbles to the floor and gets unsteadily to his feet.
LESTAT: GIVE ME HER LOUIS!! Louis throws Claudia behind him and hurls himself on Lestat, who fights like a ravening animal, bits of his broken body coming off in the process. Then with a terrifying effort, Lestat hurls Louis off, goes for Claudia, who grabs the poker from the fireplace, scatters burning coals over him. He falls back, then comes at her again, as the drapes catch fire. Louis grabs the lamp.
LOUIS: Stay back - for the love of God. or I'll burn you alive. Lestat lunges again at Claudia. Louis hurls the lamp, which explodes him in flame. Lestat screams in agony, whirls around the room, then comes on Claudia again. She hurls another lamp. Louis throws the flaming sheets around him, wrapping him further in fire. Lestat falls to his knees, choking, hands up over his face in the smoke. The whole parlor is afire. Louis gathers up Claudia, smothering the burning house, carries her down the back stairs, through the carriage way and through the gathering crowds of mortals into the street.
CLAUDIA: The ship is sailing without us!
LOUIS: Not yet. Holding her tightly, Louis EXT. DECK OF SHIP - NEAR DAWN Louis stands at the railings in the morning mist as the ship moves down the river. He sees.
MALLOY: Did he die in the fire?
LOUIS: He was dead to us. We were free. That was all that mattered.
CLAUDIA: Louis, your quest is for darkness only. This sea is not your sea. They myths of men are not your myths. Their history isn't yours. The sketch changes to a sketch of -
THE ACROPOLIS: In the moonlight.
TRANSYLVANIA: And the traditional shapes of the vampire landscape.
LOUIS: The quest for these Old World vampires filled me with bitterness. We searched village after village, ruin after ruin and I was glad when always we found nothing. For what could the damned really have to say to the damned?
MALLOY: You found nothing?
LOUIS: Peasant rumors, superstitions about garlic, crosses, stakes in the hear, all that - how do you say again? Bull shit. But one of our kind? Not a whisper.
MALLOY: No vampires in Transylvania? No Count Dracula?
LOUIS: Fictions, my friend. The vulgar fictions of a demented Irishman. So we repaired to Paris.
LOUIS: We were alive again. We were in love and so euphoric was I that I yielded to her every desire.
CLAUDIA: By a large gilt mirror, in her new clothes. She is covered with jewelry, fixing earrings to her ears.
CLAUDIA: Help me, mon chere. Louis walks over, helps her with the earrings.
CLAUDIA: How do I look?
LOUIS: Still my beautiful child. Claudia laughs.
CLAUDIA: A beautiful child! Is that what you still think I am?
LOUIS: He turns away.
CLAUDIA: Why do you turn away? Why don't you She twirls, looking at herself in the mirror, then stops, stares at herself.
CLAUDIA: You want me to be your daughter forever, don't you?
LOUIS: Well tell me, papa. What was it like making love? Louis is stunned. He blushes.
CLAUDIA: Well tell me, papa. What was it like making love? Louis is stunned. He blushes.
CLAUDIA: You don't remember? Or you never It was something hurries.and seldom savored. something acute that was quickly lost. It was the pale shadow of killing.
LOUIS: It was something hurries.and seldom savored. something acute that was quickly lost. It was the pale shadow of killing.
CLAUDIA: But how will I ever know, Louis? She stares at him through the mirror.
CLAUDIA: I'll never find them, will I? My own kind.
CLAUDIA: Have I anything in common with her, She points to a beautiful French child walking by with her mother.
CLAUDIA: Or her, or her - or any of them?
LOUIS: Claudia, you torture yourself.
CLAUDIA: They are ducklings, that will grow into swans. Whereas I must be the duckling forever.
LOUIS: You are more beautiful than any of EXT. DOLL-SHOP - NIGHT We see Madeleine, inside, painting a doll's face. Louis and Claudia arrive outside.
CLAUDIA: All her dolls resemble me.
POV: Claudia's face, with the dolls in the background. The resemblance is uncanny.
CLAUDIA: Are they my kind Louis? Dolls never change either.
LOUIS: You are neither, Claudia. Now stop this - Madeleine sees Claudia from inside. She waves.
LOUIS: You know her?
CLAUDIA: Yes. Should I take her, Louis? Among her dolls? make a doll of her in turn?
LOUIS: Come, Claudia. He takes her arm. But Claudia shakes him off, and moves into the shop.
LOUIS: Nothing. He walks again, hears the same effect. Then he stops. He stares at a gaslamp opposite.
LOUIS: You mean me harm?
SANTIAGO: ( a beat later ) You mean me harm? Louis calculates.
LOUIS: Trickster. Buffoon! Santiago echoes the first word, but not the second. Louis has broken his composure. He turns his back on Santiago, only to come face to face with Santiago right in front of him. Again Louis turns this back to find Santiago facing Louis turns, glowers, refusing to look at him.
LOUIS: I've searched the world for an immortal and this is what I find? Slowly he looks up. Santiago draws close, breaking the mirror trick and suddenly slams Louis back against the Louis is furious. He regains his balance, strikes out at Santiago and when Santiago vanishes, to reappear behind him, Louis slams back his elbow into his midriff. Santiago staggers, amazed and then rushes at Louis, throwing him down. Louis rolls back to his feet, then to his amazement sees two vampires, on in front, on behind. He looks both ways, then sees one has vanished. He stares, awestruck, at this new one:
ARMAND: He looks like an angel.
ARMAND: You are all right. He reaches into his waistcoat, takes an engraved invitation out of his pocket and thrusts it at Louis. Louis reads it aloud, as we see:
ARMAND: Bring the petit beauty with you. No one will harm you. I won't allow it. Remember my name. Armand. Armand bows and vanishes. Louis listens to the silence.
NIGHT: Louis formally dressed with Claudia in rich attire on his arm. They pass people buying tickets for the theatre and go inside.
LOUIS: Remember what I've told you. They'll have different powers. They'll read your thoughts if you allow it. They draw close to:
HUGE POSTERS: Reading -
ANOTHER ANGLE: But this can't be real. This is Nonsense all right. But something tell me it's going to be the strangest nonsense we've ever seen. Warily, they show their invitations to the mortal ticket taker at the door. He glances away INT. THEATRE BOX - NIGHT Claudia and Louis look at the crowd as the lights go Mortals, mortals everywhere. And lots of drops to drink.
CLAUDIA: But this can't be real. This is Nonsense all right. But something tell me it's going to be the strangest nonsense we've ever seen. Warily, they show their invitations to the mortal ticket taker at the door. He glances away INT. THEATRE BOX - NIGHT Claudia and Louis look at the crowd as the lights go Mortals, mortals everywhere. And lots of drops to drink.
LOUIS: Nonsense all right. But something tell me it's going to be the strangest nonsense we've ever seen. Warily, they show their invitations to the mortal ticket taker at the door. He glances away INT. THEATRE BOX - NIGHT Claudia and Louis look at the crowd as the lights go Mortals, mortals everywhere. And lots of drops to drink.
CLAUDIA: Mortals, mortals everywhere. And lots of drops to drink.
LOUIS: They are here. I know they are. Listen for something that doesn't make a sound. Stage: curtain rises. An elaborate painted set of an Italianate castle. Death standing before it, the traditional image of the Grim Reaper, complete with magnificent scythe.
LOUIS: ( whispers ) It's a vampire. It's the one I saw in Rue St Jacques. A version of the Poe story unfolds before them. All of the participants are vampires. All beautiful gleaming white, aged 20 or 30.
LOUIS: They use no paint. And the audience think it is paint.
CLAUDIA: How devilishly clever. A spotlight uncovers a mortal woman suddenly forced out upon the stage.
CLAUDIA: She's no vampire.
LOUIS: No. She's frightened. She doesn't know where she is. The audience laughs uneasily, then stops as the Mortal Woman comes into the footlights. She is too beautiful, too confused. Santiago, as Death, advances on her. She backs away, terrified, then sees the other vampires, in a phalanx, advancing from behind, in a half-circle.
MORTAL WOMAN: I don't want to die! She looks around in panic. Santiago swoons, arms over his breast as if he is hopelessly in love.
SANTIAGO: We are death! The Mortal Woman steps to the footlights.
MORTAL WOMAN: Someone help me. Please. What have I done? Louis whispers to Claudia.
LOUIS: This is no performance.
CLAUDIA: And no one knows but us.
SANTIAGO: We all die. Death is the one thing you share with all those here. Santiago gestures to the audience.
AUDIENCE: Rapt faces.
MORTAL WOMAN: But I'm young.
SANTIAGO: Death is no respecter of age. He can come any time, any place. Need I tell you what fate has in store for you?
MORTAL WOMAN: I would take my chance. Let me go! And if you take that chance and live, what is your fate? The humpbacked toothless visage of old Santiago approaches her and tears the drawstring out of her peasant blouse. It opens completely and starts to slip. She tries to catch it, but gently stops her wrists. The blouse falls, exposing her young breasts.
SANTIAGO: And if you take that chance and live, what is your fate? The humpbacked toothless visage of old Santiago approaches her and tears the drawstring out of her peasant blouse. It opens completely and starts to slip. She tries to catch it, but gently stops her wrists. The blouse falls, exposing her young breasts.
LOUIS: This is monstrous!
CLAUDIA: Yes, and very beautiful.
SANTIAGO: Just as this flesh is pink now, it will turn grey and wrinkle with Let me live, please. I don't care.
MORTAL WOMAN: Let me live, please. I don't care.
SANTIAGO: Then why should you care if you die She shakes her head, confused. he catches her wrists behind her back.
AUDIENCE: Is awestruck by her beauty, her suffering.
SANTIAGO: Draws near her cheek.
SANTIAGO: And suppose death had a heart to love and to release you? To whom would he turn his passion? Would you pick a person from the crowd there? A person to suffer as you A young girl cries out in jest.
AUDIENCE: A young girl cries out in jest.
YOUNG GIRL: Oh, yes, take me Monsieur Vampire! I adore you! Audience roars with laughter.
SANTIAGO: You wait your turn. The audience laughs again. The Mortal Woman shakes her head in panic.
SANTIAGO: Well, have you a sister, a mother, a daughter you would send in your CLOSE ON CLAUDIA Even she is repelled by the cruelty. She shakes her MORTAL WOMAN Shakes her head. She is helpless.
MORTAL WOMAN: Shakes her head. She is helpless.
SANTIAGO: We alone can give death meaning. Do you know what it means to be loved by death, to become our bride? Mortal Woman looks up on the verge of hysteria or fainting. But then her eyes mist over. She is being FROM HER POV We realize she is looking past Santiago at the divinely beautiful Armand, who has just stepped out of the wings. Armand has entranced her. He passes Santiago. Santiago stiffens, but yields the stage.
ARMAND: No pain.
MORTAL WOMAN: No pain? Armand takes her by the naked shoulders.
ARMAND: Your beauty is a gift to us.
ARMAND: Who deserves such a gift? He pulls the drawstring from her skirt and it falls revealing her nakedness. But she is spellbound.
MORTAL WOMAN: No pain. Armand embraces her, drinks, her naked body stark against her black clothes, then he passes her to the other vampires one by one.
LOUIS: I've seen enough of this! I loathe Be still!
CLAUDIA: Be still!
ANOTHER ANGLE: The audience, milling towards the exits. They talk in vacuous terms about the beauty of the show, the symbolism of it, the daring of it as they leave. Gradually Louis and Claudia are left alone in the empty theatre. Louis seems anxious to leave. Claudia whispers in his ear.
CLAUDIA: Patience, Louis. Patience. He looks around the empty theatre, more eerie now than when the play was on. The red curtain shifts slightly in a hidden breeze, a candle sputters and dies in a box. Then the candle flares again, and we see Armand in the box, looking down on them. He stares with a dreamy expression, saying nothing.
LOUIS: We've been searching for you for a very long time. His voice echoes eerily. Armand gestures for them to follow him.
ESTELLE: Such a darling. She menaces Claudia, her breasts enormous, her fangs bared. Armand throw her a look, and she is flung against the wall. Louis stares around. The vampires faces drift towards him and away, always disclosing the face of Armand, who seems some distance away, but strangely close, staring at Louis with a constantly calm, hypnotic gaze. Then a young mortal boy comes from the shadows with a candelabra, which he hands to Armand. Armand and the boy come towards them, leading them along the walls, his candelabra illuminating the ghastly murals, his face gleaming like an angel above the candleflame.
LOUIS: Yes, and very beautiful.
ARMAND: Yes, and very beautiful.
LOUIS: Your lips, they didn't move.
ARMAND: They did, but too fast for you to see them. No magic, just grace and The boy is watching Louis. Armand's hand beckons and the boy draws up to Louis in the candlelight. He places his arms on Louis' shoulders. Louis glances at Armand, who smiles. Louis sees the puncture marks on the boy's He wants you. Louis is utterly confused. Can't resist. Drinks his The boy's body presses against him, sensual, willing. The other vampires appear all around Louis, who suddenly senses it and draws away, ashamed. Claudia watches warily, from a distance. Armand beckons at her and Louis and open a door in the wall which reveals a stone staircase.
ARMAND: He wants you. Louis is utterly confused. Can't resist. Drinks his The boy's body presses against him, sensual, willing. The other vampires appear all around Louis, who suddenly senses it and draws away, ashamed. Claudia watches warily, from a distance. Armand beckons at her and Louis and open a door in the wall which reveals a stone staircase.
ARMAND: Disappointing, isn't it? To come so far and find so little. Jaded ingenues, amusing themselves with make- believe.
LOUIS: We had feared we were the only But how did you come into He glances at Louis, then at Claudia, who averts her You don't want to answer. Two vampires from the new world, come to guide us into the new era as all we love slowly rots and fades away.
ARMAND: But how did you come into He glances at Louis, then at Claudia, who averts her You don't want to answer. Two vampires from the new world, come to guide us into the new era as all we love slowly rots and fades away.
ARMAND: You don't want to answer. Two vampires from the new world, come to guide us into the new era as all we love slowly rots and fades away.
LOUIS: Are you the leader of this group?
ARMAND: If there were a leader, I would be the one. Claudia stares at him constantly, guarded.
LOUIS: So you have the answers.
ARMAND: Ah! You have questions?
LOUIS: What are we?
ARMAND: Nothing if not vampires.
LOUIS: Who made us what we are?
ARMAND: Surely you know the one who made But the one who made him, who made the one who made him, the source of all this evil. Louis looks at the picture. Armand watches him.
LOUIS: But the one who made him, who made the one who made him, the source of all this evil. Louis looks at the picture. Armand watches him.
ARMAND: That is a picture, nothing more.
LOUIS: You mean we are not children of He smiles at Louis. A smile of infinite compassion.
ARMAND: He smiles at Louis. A smile of infinite compassion.
ARMAND: I understand. I saw you in the theatre, your suffering, your sympathy for that girl. I saw you with the boy. You die when you kill, you feel you deserve to die and you stint on nothing. But does that make you evil? Or, since you comprehend what you call goodness, does it not make you good?
LOUIS: Then there is nothing.
ARMAND: He passes his finger through the candle flame.
ARMAND: And perhaps this is the only real evil left.
LOUIS: Then God does not exist.
ARMAND: I have not spoken to him.
LOUIS: And no vampire here has discourse with God or the Devil?
ARMAND: None that I've ever known. I know nothing of God or the Devil, I have never seen a vision nor learnt a secret that would damn or save my soul. And as far as I know, after four hundred years I am the oldest living vampire in the world. He stares at them, his face angelic, hypnotic, young. His eyes hold them both in a trance.
LOUIS: My God. So it's as I always feared. Nothing, leading to You fell too much. So much you make me feel. He stares from Claudia to Louis. He seems to be reading their souls.
ARMAND: You fell too much. So much you make me feel. He stares from Claudia to Louis. He seems to be reading their souls.
ARMAND: The one who made you should have told you this. The one who left the old world for the new.
LOUIS: He knew nothing. He just didn't Knew? You mean he is. Claudia appears suddenly to Louis' shoulder, Come, beloved. It's time we were on our way. I'm hungry and the city She stares hard at Armand. Armand looks from her to So soon to go? He seems genuinely regretful. But Claudia pulls Louis INT. DARKENED CORRIDORS AND THEATRE - NIGHT Louis and Claudia feel their way through darkened corridors, trying to find their way out.
ARMAND: Knew? You mean he is. Claudia appears suddenly to Louis' shoulder, Come, beloved. It's time we were on our way. I'm hungry and the city She stares hard at Armand. Armand looks from her to So soon to go? He seems genuinely regretful. But Claudia pulls Louis INT. DARKENED CORRIDORS AND THEATRE - NIGHT Louis and Claudia feel their way through darkened corridors, trying to find their way out.
CLAUDIA: Come, beloved. It's time we were on our way. I'm hungry and the city She stares hard at Armand. Armand looks from her to So soon to go? He seems genuinely regretful. But Claudia pulls Louis INT. DARKENED CORRIDORS AND THEATRE - NIGHT Louis and Claudia feel their way through darkened corridors, trying to find their way out.
ARMAND: So soon to go? He seems genuinely regretful. But Claudia pulls Louis INT. DARKENED CORRIDORS AND THEATRE - NIGHT Louis and Claudia feel their way through darkened corridors, trying to find their way out.
SANTIAGO: How did you wrong him? Louis is stunned.
LOUIS: You read my thoughts?
SANTIAGO: You said a name -
LOUIS: A name I don't want to say again.
SANTIAGO: I seemed to recognize it. Other vampires appear behind him.
SANTIAGO: There is but one crime among us vampires here. He looks at Claudia.
SANTIAGO: You should know, who are so secretive about the vampire who made you. Claudia laughs.
CLAUDIA: It is the crime that means death to any vampire. To kill your own kind!
SANTIAGO: It is the crime that means death to any vampire. To kill your own kind!
CLAUDIA: Aaaah! I was so afraid it was to be born like Venus out of the foam, as we were! Come Louis, let's go!
CLAUDIA: I loathe them! I can't stand the sight of them! Stupid bourgeois Parisians, all dressed in black like some private club! I've searched for them the world over and I despise them!
LOUIS: What danger?
CLAUDIA: I can feel it from them! They want to know who made us, what became of him. They have their rules, their idiotic rules! They come to their room, enter.
LOUIS: Do you think I would let them harm No, you would not, Louis. Danger hold you to me.
CLAUDIA: No, you would not, Louis. Danger hold you to me.
LOUIS: Love holds you to me. And we are in danger, not you.
CLAUDIA: She smiles at him. A strange, sad, adult smile.
CLAUDIA: You would leave me for Armand if he beckoned you.
LOUIS: He wants you as you want him. He's been waiting for you. He wants you for a companion. He bides his time that place. he finds them as dull and lifeless as we do.
CLAUDIA: He wants you as you want him. He's been waiting for you. He wants you for a companion. He bides his time that place. he finds them as dull and lifeless as we do.
LOUIS: That's not so.
CLAUDIA: Do you know what his soul said to me without saying a word? When he put me in that trance.
LOUIS: So you felt it too!
CLAUDIA: Let him go, he said. Let him go. She touches his face.
CLAUDIA: Is that what I should do Louis? Let you go? My father? My lover? My Louis, who made me? There are tears in her eyes. Louis lifts her up in his He can protect us, Claudia.
LOUIS: He can protect us, Claudia.
CLAUDIA: You really believe that?
ARMAND: I was waiting for you.
LOUIS: Listen to me. He follows Armand into the room.
LOUIS: Claudia is dear to me. My. Your lover.
ARMAND: Your lover.
LOUIS: No, my beloved, my child.
ARMAND: If you say so. You are innocent.
LOUIS: I'm not innocent. But I'm afraid. She feels she's in danger from the She is.
ARMAND: She is.
LOUIS: But why?
ARMAND: I could give you reasons. Her silence. Her youth. It's forbidden to make so young, so helpless, that cannot survive on its own.
LOUIS: Then blame the one who made her.
ARMAND: Did you kill this vampire who made you both? Is that why you won't say his name? Santiago thinks you did.
LOUIS: We want no quarrel with him.
ARMAND: It's already begun. If you want to save her, send her away.
LOUIS: Then I leave too. Armand smiles.
ARMAND: So soon? Without any of those answers you so longed for?
LOUIS: You said there were none.
ARMAND: But you asked the wrong questions. Do you know how few vampires have the stamina for immortality? How quickly they perish of their own We can do that?
LOUIS: We can do that?
ARMAND: You would never give up life. If the world were reduced to one empty cell, on fragile candle, you stay alive and study it. You see too clearly. You see too much.
LOUIS: That's what the one who made me How he must have loved you. Armand suddenly grips Louis close to him.
ARMAND: How he must have loved you. Armand suddenly grips Louis close to him.
ARMAND: Louis, I need you more than he ever did. I need a link with this century. The world changes. We do not. Therein lies the irony that ultimately kills us. I need you to make contact with this age. Louis laughs bitterly.
LOUIS: He? Don't you see? I'm not the spirit of any age! I'm at odds with everything and always have been! I'm not even sure what I am! Armand smiles.
ARMAND: But Louis, that is the very spirit of your age. The heart of it. You fall from grace has been the fall of a century. Louis is stunned.
LOUIS: And the vampires of the Theatre?
ARMAND: Like moths around the candle of the age. Decadent, useless. They can't reflect anything. But you do. You reflect its broken heart. Louis is speechless.
ARMAND: Are these not the answers you came Yes. My God.
LOUIS: ( softly ) Yes. My God.
ARMAND: A vampire with a human soul. An immortal with a mortal's passion. You are beautiful, my friend. Lestat must have wept when he made you -
LOUIS: Lestat! You knew Lestat!
ARMAND: Yes I knew him. Knew him well enough not to mourn his passing. Armand stands. He takes Louis by the arm, leads him towards the back wall.
ARMAND: But you must go now. You must get her safely out of Paris. He opens a hidden door in the wall.
ARMAND: No-one else knows of this door. When you knock you will find me EXT. THEATRE DES VAMPIRES - NIGHT Louis, in the street outside, as the door closes behind I felt a kind of peace at last. I had found the teacher which Lestat could never, I knew now, have been. I knew knowledge would never be withheld by Armand. It would pass through him as through a pane of glass. And I knew Claudia must leave me.
MADELEINE: The doll-maker, resplendent in green taffeta, sitting like a Madonna with Claudia on her lap. Claudia's arms are wound round her neck. The contrast between mortal woman and immortal child is plain.
CLAUDIA: Madeleine. Louis is shy. Madeleine rises and comes towards Louis. She draws back the lace fringes round her throat, so he can see the two marks there. She says softly, dreamily.
MADELEINE: Louis turns away. Claudia speaks, icy, from the bed.
CLAUDIA: Do it Louis. Because I cannot do it. I haven't the strength. You saw to that when you made me. Louis turns to Madeleine.
LOUIS: You haven't the vaguest conception under God of what you ask!
MADELEINE: Au contraire, monsieur, I have. Louis pushes her away. Claudia screams.
CLAUDIA: You have found your new companion, Louis! You will make me mine! Louis grips Madeleine and shakes her.
LOUIS: How do we seem to you? Do you think us beautiful, magical, our white skin, our fierce eyes? Drink, you ask me! Have you any idea of the thing you will become?
CLAUDIA: Your evil is that you cannot be evil! And I will suffer for it no Don't make me, Claudia! I cannot do Yet you could do it to me! Snatching me from my mother's hands like two monsters in a fairy-tale! Couldn't you have waited? Six more years and I would have had that shape! And now you weep! You haven't tears enough for what you've done to me. She points to Madeleine
LOUIS: Don't make me, Claudia! I cannot do Yet you could do it to me! Snatching me from my mother's hands like two monsters in a fairy-tale! Couldn't you have waited? Six more years and I would have had that shape! And now you weep! You haven't tears enough for what you've done to me. She points to Madeleine
CLAUDIA: Yet you could do it to me! Snatching me from my mother's hands like two monsters in a fairy-tale! Couldn't you have waited? Six more years and I would have had that shape! And now you weep! You haven't tears enough for what you've done to me. She points to Madeleine
CLAUDIA: You give her to me! Do this before you leave me! She begins to weep, sobbing like a child.
CLAUDIA: Oh God! I love you still, that's the torment of it. But you know I must leave you Louis.
LOUIS: And who will care for me my love, my dark angel, when you are gone? Louis looks at Madeleine
CLAUDIA: And who will care for me my love, my dark angel, when you are gone? Louis looks at Madeleine
LOUIS: You promise to care for her then?
MADELEINE: And you know what you ask for? She wraps her arms around Claudia.
LOUIS: And you know what you ask for? She wraps her arms around Claudia.
MADELEINE: What do you think she is, Madeleine? A doll?
LOUIS: What do you think she is, Madeleine? A doll?
MADELEINE: A child who can't die. Her finger clutches a locket around her neck, Louis touches it, opens it.
THE LOCKET: A picture of a young girl, Claudia's age, wistful,
LOUIS: ( softly ) And the child who did die?
MADELEINE: My daughter. Louis takes her chin in his hand, gently.
LOUIS: Look at the gaslight. Don't take your eyes off it. You will be drained to the point of death, but you must stay alive. Do you hear Louis pulls her to him and starts to drink her blood.
MADELEINE: Louis pulls her to him and starts to drink her blood.
CLAUDIA: ( whispers ) Louis speaks without turning.
LOUIS: She is dying. It happened to you too, but your child's mind can't But if she dies.
CLAUDIA: But if she dies.
LOUIS: It's only mortal death. He turns to look at Claudia.
LOUIS: Bear me no ill will, my love. We are now even.
CLAUDIA: What do you mean?
LOUIS: What died tonight inside that room was not that woman. It will take her many nights to die, perhaps years. What has died in that room tonight is the last vestige in me of what was human. She takes his hand.
CLAUDIA: Yes father. At last. We are een. He bends down and kisses her. He looks up, at the wafting curtains. He sees -
CLAUDIA: Looks up and screams.
THE CURTAINS: Are ripped aside. The vampires of the Theatre surge The vampires close on them as Louis struggles, Claudia's scream pierces the night air.
ESTELLE: Time for justice, little one. The vampires close on them as Louis struggles, Claudia's scream pierces the night air.
THE BALLROOM: Vampire chaos, as they are dragged through. Louis struggling like a demon.
LOUIS: Armand! Get me Armand! he wouldn't countenance this -
SANTIAGO: You can make no demands here! Buffoon! Bastard - Santiago strikes Louis to the ground. As he struggles to his feet, he sees the vampires part around a figure coming through. He gasps at the sight of -
LESTAT: Dressed beautifully, but horribly scarred now, from the fire as well as the earlier stabbing. Lestat is confused, ancient, teetering, reaching for Santiago's shoulder to steady himself.
LESTAT: Is he the one? Lestat shakes his head.
SANTIAGO: Is he the one? Lestat shakes his head.
LESTAT: No, the child. The child was the All the murderers!!!
SANTIAGO: All the murderers!!!
LOUIS: You are alive, Lestat! It can't be murder! Tell them how you treated Lestat reaches out to Louis.
LESTAT: No. You come back to me Louis.
LOUIS: Are you mad???
ESTELLE: The sentence is death! To all of Only the girl - it was the girl - The sound of something being dragged through the crowd. Horrible echoing, scraping - Lestat grips Santiago.
LESTAT: Only the girl - it was the girl - The sound of something being dragged through the crowd. Horrible echoing, scraping - Lestat grips Santiago.
LESTAT: You promised me - I could take him back to New Orleans - Louis - there's something I must tell you - about that night - that night I met you - He stares around him, confused. The scraping gets You let her go, Lestat - you let her free - and I'll come back with you - Santiago grabs Louis by the neck.
LOUIS: You let her go, Lestat - you let her free - and I'll come back with you - Santiago grabs Louis by the neck.
SANTIAGO: Death for the others. For you eternity in a box - We see now what caused the scraping. A huge metal coffin being dragged through the vampires. Claudia Walled in a dungeon. Your only company will be your screams. Perhaps it will take centuries. The vampires grab Louis. They force him towards the coffin. Lestat struggles with them.
SANTIAGO: Walled in a dungeon. Your only company will be your screams. Perhaps it will take centuries. The vampires grab Louis. They force him towards the coffin. Lestat struggles with them.
LESTAT: He's coming home with me - you promised -
SANTIAGO: ( laughing ) We promised nothing! Louis struggles fiercely as he is forced into the coffin. Claudia weeps.
LOUIS: They've fooled you, Lestat! You must reach Armand! Armand has the Louis, struggling in the coffin. Then the lid is forced down, huge locks closed over it.
LOUIS: He loses consciousness.
BLACKNESS: INT. COFFIN Louis sleeps, upside down. Sound of bricks being broken, thrown aside. Then of locks breaking. Louis opens his eyes. The lid opens. He sees -
ARMAND: Above him, reaching down to take his hand.
ARMAND: Hurry. Don't make a sound. Louis gets out, into a vast long catacomb. Louis runs to the end of it, steps through a broken brick wall.
LOUIS: Where is she? Where's Claudia?
ARMAND: Follow me - that way - through my cell - He points to his cell at the end of the passage, the foot of the steps. Sound of rain beyond the door.
LOUIS: Not without Claudia. Where is she?
ARMAND: I can't save her.
LOUIS: You can't believe I'd leave without her. Armand! You must save her! You have no choice.
ARMAND: Louis, I can't save her. I will only risk losing you - Louis runs up the stone stairs. It leads to the ballroom. He enters. Estelle stands far off, looking at him coolly. She lifts the stage skull mask and laughs softly behind it. A male vampire slumps in a chair staring softly at Silence. Indifference. Louis sees Lestat sitting in a far corner. he rushes up to Lestat, who looks up at him, confused. He's holding something crumpled, made of cloth.
LESTAT: You'll come home with me Louis? For a little while. until I am myself Louis turns round and round in rage. Passive still faces. A door bangs open and shut. Louis looks again at Lestat. He snatches the cloth from Lestat's hand. We see it is a small torn bloodstained dress. Claudia's dress. The door bangs again. Estelle laughs. Rain gusts into the ballroom. Louis goes to the door, holding the dress. Armand approaches, trying to pull him away, but Louis shrugs him off. He draws nearer and nearer and stairs at -
LOUIS: Louis turns round and round in rage. Passive still faces. A door bangs open and shut. Louis looks again at Lestat. He snatches the cloth from Lestat's hand. We see it is a small torn bloodstained dress. Claudia's dress. The door bangs again. Estelle laughs. Rain gusts into the ballroom. Louis goes to the door, holding the dress. Armand approaches, trying to pull him away, but Louis shrugs him off. He draws nearer and nearer and stairs at -
CLAUDIA!!!: Louis turns round and round in rage. Passive still faces. A door bangs open and shut. Louis looks again at Lestat. He snatches the cloth from Lestat's hand. We see it is a small torn bloodstained dress. Claudia's dress. The door bangs again. Estelle laughs. Rain gusts into the ballroom. Louis goes to the door, holding the dress. Armand approaches, trying to pull him away, but Louis shrugs him off. He draws nearer and nearer and stairs at -
ARMAND: I couldn't prevent it.
LOUIS: I don't believe you. I do not have to read your soul to know that you Louis, they cannot be brought back. There are some things that are impossible, even for me.
ARMAND: Louis, they cannot be brought back. There are some things that are impossible, even for me.
LOUIS: You let them do it. Louis climbs to his feet.
LOUIS: You held sway over them. They feared you. You wanted it to Louis, I swear I did not.
ARMAND: Louis, I swear I did not.
LOUIS: I understand you only too well. You let them do it, as I let Lestat turn a child into a demon. As I let her rip Lestat's heart to pieces! Well I am no longer that passive fool that has spun evil from evil till the web traps the one who made it. Your melancholy spirit of this century! I know what I must do. And I warn you - you saved me tonight, so I return the favor - do not go near your cell in the Theatre Des Vampires again.
BALLROOM: Leaking kerosene from the cask. He splashes over the coffins that gleam in the dimness. Then he strikes a match and heaves it into the kerosene. Everything bursts into flame. The trail of kerosene roars into fire through the ballroom over the coffins and up the stairs. We hear EXPLOSIONS of fire from above.
LOUIS: Shudders all over, fighting the morning weakness. He readies the scythe, like the grim reaper.
ESTELLE: Rises from her burning coffin, screams and tries to run through the fire but Louis slashes her down with the scythe and she goes down screaming, her dress in Others rise, choking in the smoke. Screams from everywhere. They are burning. Louis backs up the stairs to the -
ESTELLE: Stop him. It's morning. The sunlight. Stop him. Others rise, choking in the smoke. Screams from everywhere. They are burning. Louis backs up the stairs to the -
DUNGEON: He can see there a thin pale light under Armand's bolted door. Suddenly -
SANTIAGO: Comes at him from behind. Louis turns. Santiago rushes him in a blur. Louis swings the scythe, too fast to see what he himself is doing. Santiago's head streaming blood flies through the air. The body drops, flapping its arms. SCREAMS come from everywhere. Another vampire rushes burning towards Louis. He decapitates him in turn. Then he staggers into Armand's cell, and bars the door the connects it to the ballroom behind him. He staggers to the outer door. There is a thin strip of daylight, beneath the door, blinding him. He throws it open, and staggers into the daylight.
LOUIS: You didn't even warm them, did you?
ARMAND: And yet you knew what I would do.
LOUIS: And yet you knew what I would do.
ARMAND: I knew. I rescued you, didn't I? From the terrible dawn.
LOUIS: You were their leader. They trusted You made me see their failings, Louis. You made me look at them with your eyes. He looks at Louis affectionately.
ARMAND: You made me see their failings, Louis. You made me look at them with your eyes. He looks at Louis affectionately.
ARMAND: Your melancholy eyes.
LOUIS: What a pair we are. We deserve each other, don't we?
ARMAND: We are a pair, and that's what Armand and Louis walk slowly through the Louvre together. Camera follows them for a while, then comes to rest on a sunrise by Turner.
LOUIS: Looks around. Walks on. Sees another corpse, almost nothing but bones, sinking into the wet earth, the roots of an oak overgrowing it. He looks up at the distant light. He passes a third corpse, caught in wisteria and rose vine, only bones and clothes.
HIS POV: Lestat lying on the floor. He is gaunt to near starvation. All his scars are gone, but he is almost a skeleton and his eyes are enormous in their sockets. His clothes are rags. Blond hair beautiful, as always.
LESTAT: I'm so glad you're here Louis. I've dreamed of your coming.
LOUIS: Don't try to speak. it's I didn't mean to let them do it. that Santiago, he tricked me.
LESTAT: I didn't mean to let them do it. that Santiago, he tricked me.
LOUIS: That's all past, Lestat.
LESTAT: Yes. Past. she should never have been one of us. He turns and looks at Louis. Old, fearful, broken.
LESTAT: Still beautiful Louis. You always were the strong one.
LOUIS: Don't fear me, Lestat. I bring you no harm.
LESTAT: You've come back to me, Louis? You've come again to me? Louis shakes his head. A series of police sirens go by, piercing the night sky. A helicopter goes overhead. Red flashes illuminate his face. Lestat shivers, covers his ears. He's terrified. Louis touches him, calming him, until the lights pass over.
LOUIS: It's only a siren.
LESTAT: I can't bear it Louis! The machines out there, that fly and that roar! And such lights! They make the night brighter than the day!
LOUIS: And they frighten you?
LESTAT: You know I love the dark. But there's no dark anymore.
LOUIS: It's false light, Lestat. It can't harm you.
LESTAT: If you stayed with me Louis, I could venture out. little by little. become the old Lestat. Louis shivers. He releases him.
LOUIS: I have to go now Lestat.
LESTAT: You remember how I was, Louis.. the vampire Lestat.
LOUIS: Yes. I remember. Lestat shivers.
LESTAT: I tried to tell you Louis. that night in Paris. when I first came to you. no-one can refuse the dark gift, Louis. not even you.
LOUIS: I tried.
LESTAT: And the more you tried, the more I wanted you. a vampire with your beautiful, suffering human heart. And how you suffered. I need your forgiveness, Louis.
LOUIS: You have it. Louis walks slowly away from him. Lestat turns back to his candle, his magazine.
LESTAT: You'll come back, Louis. take me out. little by little. and maybe I'll be myself again. A bluebottle buzzes by him. His hand shoots out and grabs it, squeezes the blood.
LOUIS: ( whispering ) Yes, Lestat.
ON LOUIS: As he walks through the decayed house. His eyes are INT. ROOM. SAN FRANCISCO - NIGHT ( PRESENT ) Malloy, staring at Louis.
MALLOY: No. it can't end like that.
LOUIS: But it has. There is no more to But you talk about passion, about longing, about things I'll never know in my life! It's still inside you, in every syllable you speak! And then you tell me it ends like that? Just empty?
MALLOY: But you talk about passion, about longing, about things I'll never know in my life! It's still inside you, in every syllable you speak! And then you tell me it ends like that? Just empty?
LOUIS: It's over, I'm telling you.
MALLOY: You need a new passion, Louis, a new reason to feel. what a story you've told, you don't understand Louis looks at the cassettes on the table.
LOUIS: Do what you want with it. Learn what you can. Give the story to Malloy rises.
MALLOY: You have another chance, Louis. Take me! Give me your gift, your Louis is slowly horrified, then outraged and angry.
LOUIS: Is this what you want? You ask me for this after all I've told you?
MALLOY: If I could see what you've seen, feel what you've felt I wouldn't let it end like this! You need a like to the world out there, a connection. then it won't end like this. He stares at Louis.
MALLOY: You need me. Louis turns away.
LOUIS: Dear God. I've failed again, haven't I?
MALLOY: Don't say anymore. The reels are still turning. I have but one chance to show you the meaning of what I've said. He looks at the boy. Then suddenly grabs him, lifts him off the floor, bares his terrifying fangs and brings them to his throat. Malloy screams, in involuntary You like it? You like being food for the immortals? You like dying? Is it beautiful? Is it intense? Malloy, now terrified, whispers
LOUIS: Don't say anymore. The reels are still turning. I have but one chance to show you the meaning of what I've said. He looks at the boy. Then suddenly grabs him, lifts him off the floor, bares his terrifying fangs and brings them to his throat. Malloy screams, in involuntary You like it? You like being food for the immortals? You like dying? Is it beautiful? Is it intense? Malloy, now terrified, whispers
LOUIS: You like it? You like being food for the immortals? You like dying? Is it beautiful? Is it intense? Malloy, now terrified, whispers
MALLOY: No. please. Louis drops him.
LOUIS: Thank God. Malloy, falls on the floor, terrified. When he looks up, Louis has vanished.
MALLOY: Louis. Louis. He looks up at the tape. It is still turning.
MALLOY: Holy shit. He shakes his head. He gets up, and with shaking fingers gathers his tapes. He runs out of the room.
MALLOY: EXT. GOLDEN GATE BRIDGE - NIGHT Malloy driving with streams of traffic over the bridge. He breathes deeply, to calm himself. He takes a tape from his pocket, and with still shaking hands, sticks it in the deck.
LESTAT: Sinks his teeth in his neck.
MALLOY'S HANDS: On the wheel, shaking, shuddering, losing their grip.
MALLOY'S EYES: Bulging, as the life drains out of him. Lestat sucking him like a rat.
THE WHEEL: Swinging free of Malloy's dying hands.
THE CAR: Veers wildly into oncoming traffic.
LESTAT: Drinks regardless.
A TRUCK: Coming towards them, about to crush the car.
THE CAR: Misses the truck by inches.
LESTAT: Throws Malloy to one side, climbs into the front seat. The tape is playing.
ON LESTAT: At the wheel, the corpse of Malloy in the passenger seat. He smiles. We can see the blood renewing him.
LESTAT: Dear Louis. will I ever forget?
FADE OUT: THE END Writers : Anne Rice Neil Jordan
THE END: Writers : Anne Rice Neil Jordan
