IT'S COMPLICATED: Written by
JAKE: Happy happy happy.
JANE: ( reminding him )
JAKE: Some things never change.
SALLY: Thank God.
JANE: I thought maybe you were drifting.
TED: He was pausing.
JAKE: ( sighs, raising his glass ) Happy. Anniversary. You two have led an extraordinarily blessed As long as I've known you both, you've always managed to somehow do everything entirely right.
JANE: That's so true.
JAKE: But, honestly, how can it be thirty years!?! When did we do that trip to Spain? It was for both of our what..?
JANE: Fifteenth anniversaries.
JAKE: God, that was a great trip.
JANE: Ollie, how was graduation?
OLIVER: It was fantastic. I can't believe I'm not in school anymore. When's Luke's graduation?
JAKE: Next week.
JANE: ( correcting him ) It's in three days!
JAKE: Sorry! I mean this week.
TED: Are the girls going?
JANE: They can't wait. How long is Luke home before he has to go back for work?
OLIVER: How long is Luke home before he has to go back for work?
JANE: Only a week.
SALLY: Aw, that's it?
JANE: I know, I hate it. Well. Congrats again. Great party.
OLIVER: You're leaving?
JANE: Yeah, I have some stuff I have to get done tonight for work. I'll see you two in New York.
AGNESS: Absolutely. Lookin' forward to it.
JANE: Good. Well..
AGNESS: Jane, what are you wearing to the graduation?
JANE: Oh, a suit or dress, probably a Fancy. Okay.
AGNESS: Fancy. Okay.
JAKE: See you there, Janey. Where are you staying again?
JANE: We're at The Park Regent. You said you were at The Four Seasons, I don't know. Where are we?
JAKE: I don't know. Where are we?
AGNESS: We're at The Park Regent too.
JANE: ( hates this ) Oh. Good. That'll be convenient, actually. Okay, so, see you soon.. ( waves awkwardly )
SALLY: I'll walk you out.
AGNESS: So, Ted, do you think you can help us get Pedro into El Montecito for I thought it was sweet how well you and Jake were getting along. Felt like old times.
SALLY: ( laughs ) I thought it was sweet how well you and Jake were getting along. Felt like old times.
JANE: Yeah, well, we know how to do this by now. It has been ten years.
SALLY: That's crazy.
LAUREN: Gabby, stop.you're never going to fit all this in. you can come back for the rest tomorrow.
GABBY: I can't come back t-
GABBY: Oh, God.that's all my clothes.
HARLEY: ( sets the suitcase down as
JANE: Gabby, you're leaving now? I thought you were going in the I know but my friends are all there and they wanted me to come tonight.
GABBY: I know but my friends are all there and they wanted me to come tonight.
JANE: But honey, it's gonna get dark soon. You can't see out the back window. It's Saturday night. People will be on the road Mom, she'll be there in a couple of hours, she'll be fine.
LAUREN: Mom, she'll be there in a couple of hours, she'll be fine.
GABBY: Okay, I'm leaving this stuff here. I'll be back for it in a few days.
JANE: Want me to drive it down in the I could be there by lunch. We could go to that big Bed, Bath, and Beyond, buy kitchen stuff. Gabby, can you look up from that thing??
GABBY: ( looking up ) I got it covered, Ma. ( to Harley ) Hey gangsta, help me carry these.
HARLEY: ( exhausted )
LAUREN: Mom, are you afraid to sleep in the house alone?
JANE: What are you..? No! I'm not! One of you is always moving out. But I am wondering who I'm gonna watch The Hills with?
GABBY: ( huge hug ) Mamacita. I'm gonna miss you.
GABBY: Omigod. L.A.! Okay. I'm doing Mom, you don't happen to know where Dad is, do you? I tried calling him to say goodbye.
JANE: He was at Sally and Ted's.
HARLEY: He was? How was that? You and them at the same not that it's in any way, any of my. was just.
JANE: It was.. whatever. It was fine.
GABBY: Was her lunatic child there?
JANE: ( laughs ) Not this time. Gabby, call me when you get there. Do NOT forget.
GABBY: I will. I'll call you!
LAUREN: Knock `em dead, little one.
HARLEY: And call us when you get there, too. And no texting and driving.
HARLEY: ( puts his arm around They grow up so friggin' fast. I hate it.
LAUREN: Maybe you should get a dog.
JANE: Oh my God. Goodbye you two. Love Love you boss!
HARLEY: ( heading for their car and Love you boss!
JANE: ( nods to the muffins )
REYNALDO: Too much sugar.
JANE: Little bit.
JANE: Who wants coffee while they're
JANE: ( quietly to a Young Check on table five, will you?
JANE: ( all smiles )
PETER: Jane, I can't remember, have you ever met Adam Schaeffer?
ADAM: ( shrugs awkwardly )
PETER: Look what we've got.
ADAM: ( raises the blueprints ) Your plans.
JANE: ( to Peter ) So excited!
JANE: ( before she looks ) I've been thinking about this addition for ten years.
JANE: Uh-huh, uh-huh. Oh, niiice..I like this wall of windows, Peter.
PETER: That was Adam actually.
JANE: ( still perusing, then to Love where you put the stairs. That's so good!
PETER: Adam's idea.
JANE: Oh my God, the kitchen! Finally - I have a real kitchen with four walls. It's.oh, wow.you actually understood what I wanted!
PETER: All Adam.
ADAM: I'm happy you like it.
JANE: ( finally noticing him ) Okay. Hi. ( shakes his hand )
ADAM: ( laughs ) You read all my e-mails.
JANE: You read all my e-mails.
ADAM: All 47 of them.
OFFICE MANAGER: Jane, it's 10:15.
JANE: It is? Oh, sorry, I have a 10:30. dentist. Can you leave these and I'll make a few notes? Well, actually, I have one tiny note now. In my bathroom.um.no his and her sinks.
ADAM: Okay, sure. No his?
JANE: Just hers.
ADAM: And you don't think in the future you might want a his?
JANE: Oh, God, we're talking code about my life, right?
ADAM: ( laughs ) No, no, didn't mean to be.
JANE: The truth is, in my current bathroom, I have two sinks and sometimes the other sink makes me feel bad.
ADAM: One sink. Not a problem. Can we schedule a meeting for next week? Does Tuesday work for you?
JANE: Tuesday's great. Eight-thirty too early? At the house?
ADAM: I'll be there.
JANE: Hi. I'm Dr. Moss.
DOCTOR: Hi. I'm Dr. Moss.
JANE: ( shaking his hand ) Hi. Jane Adler. So, I just wanted to start with. and please don't take this the wrong way but I'm the type of person who kind of makes fun of people who get plastic I understand.
DR. MOSS: I understand.
JANE: You do? Good, because, you know, some women can look a little fake and plasticky. And in my opinion I agree.
DR. MOSS: I agree.
JANE: Oh, that's good, so, well, as against the whole thing as I am, I do have a problem that's been bugging me. My left eyelid is really saggy. I find I'm sometimes holding it up when I'm watching TV or reading and I was wondering if that's something you could fix.
DR. MOSS: ( looking at her closely ) It's resting on your eye lashes.
JANE: Is it?
DR. MOSS: ( measures her lids with a Actually you have the same amount of excess skin on both sides.
JANE: I do? Well, I'm only interested in fixing one eye.
DR. MOSS: Jane, what you need to fix this is a brow lift.
JANE: A brow lift? Wh-what is that We surgically cut at your hair line. Incision goes right across Then we just lift the skin up a little tighter across the skull. We staple it back in place right above your ears. Recovery isn't all that bad but you could be fairly numb and you'll probably have a headache that lasts anywhere from say 3 to 6 months.
DR. MOSS: We surgically cut at your hair line. Incision goes right across Then we just lift the skin up a little tighter across the skull. We staple it back in place right above your ears. Recovery isn't all that bad but you could be fairly numb and you'll probably have a headache that lasts anywhere from say 3 to 6 months.
AGNESS: ( pushing the Lobby button, Jake, Jake, Jake, Jake. Jake.
JANE: ( pushing the Lobby button, Jake, Jake, Jake, Jake. Jake.
JAKE: ( pushing the Lobby button, Jake, Jake, Jake, Jake. Jake.
JANE: ( pushing the Lobby button, Jake, Jake, Jake, Jake. Jake.
AGNESS: ( pushing the Lobby button, Jake, Jake, Jake, Jake. Jake.
PEDRO: Jake, Jake, Jake, Jake. Jake.
JAKE: Hold on Pedro, I'm talking to Pedro, up! Now!!
AGNESS: Pedro, up! Now!!
JAKE: What are you doing in this You don't go to Sharon anymore?
JANE: You don't go to Sharon anymore?
JAKE: You don't go to Sharon anymore?
JANE: Uh, no. changed.
JAKE: Honey, don't do that..
JANE: See you in the Big Apple.
JAKE: ( trying to be nonchalant See you there.
TRISHA: That is beyond..
JANE: ( laughing ) When the three of them got in the elevator. between that and the staples and the headache for six months. it was the most insane hour of my life.
DIANE: Jake has lost his mind.
JANE: Oh, I don't know.
DIANE: I know. First of all, he was a complete prick for cheating on you.
JANE: Well, can't disagree with that.
DIANE: whole marketing department at KY, whatever that station's called so she's not that big of a lunatic.
JANE: whole marketing department at KY, whatever that station's called so she's not that big of a lunatic.
TRISHA: whole marketing department at KY, whatever that station's called so she's not that big of a lunatic.
JANE: whole marketing department at KY, whatever that station's called so she's not that big of a lunatic.
DIANE: with her, your 20 year marriage ends then six months later she leaves Jake for some random guy, has a baby, leaves that guy, marries Jake and she's not nuts?
JANE: ( groans ) Jo, you're so lucky Jerry's dead.
JOANNE: into him.
JANE: into him.
JOANNE: ( rises to get more wine ) Janey, you want to meet a guy I met on Match.com that I didn't like?
TRISHA: ( rises to get more wine ) Janey, you want to meet a guy I met on Match.com that I didn't like?
JANE: think so.
TRISHA: You know it's not healthy not to have sex for.however long it's Trust me. I'm not not doing it on Okay. I don't know if this is true, but I read on line about this woman who hadn't done it in so long her vagina closed up.
JANE: You know it's not healthy not to have sex for.however long it's Trust me. I'm not not doing it on Okay. I don't know if this is true, but I read on line about this woman who hadn't done it in so long her vagina closed up.
TRISHA: You know it's not healthy not to have sex for.however long it's Trust me. I'm not not doing it on Okay. I don't know if this is true, but I read on line about this woman who hadn't done it in so long her vagina closed up.
JANE: Trust me. I'm not not doing it on Okay. I don't know if this is true, but I read on line about this woman who hadn't done it in so long her vagina closed up.
DIANE: Okay. I don't know if this is true, but I read on line about this woman who hadn't done it in so long her vagina closed up.
JANE: What!!! Get out of here.
DIANE: I swear to God. It grew back Wait. Was it ever one piece?
JOANNE: Wait. Was it ever one piece?
DIANE: All I know is, she had to have a Oh my Goddddddd.
TRISHA: Oh my Goddddddd.
JANE: Oh my Goddddddd.
JANE: ( lifts her head, then "Dr. Moss, Hi. I have a little situation that needs fixing.."
TRISHA: Bubbee, you want to fix your situation? Just date someone. Seriously. Anyone.
JANE: Love when we're all in the same time zone.
HARLEY: So, what's up Luke? Did you decide to have the party?
LUKE: Oh, yeah. Big time.
JANE: What party?
LUKE: Are you guys gonna sleep over?
LAUREN: If you give us your bed and change the sheets.
JANE: You're having a party? When? Hi. Adler. Two rooms.hopefully next to each other.
RECEPTION CLERK: I have an Adler, J. in a Superior Suite, Park Avenue view. Oh, I'm sorry, here it is. Adler J two Standard Doubles. Sorry about Yeah, we're not the ones in the Superior Suite. Have the other Adlers checked in yet? Just No, they haven't, ma'am. Not yet. Now I just need a credit card and your signature.
JANE: Yeah, we're not the ones in the Superior Suite. Have the other Adlers checked in yet? Just No, they haven't, ma'am. Not yet. Now I just need a credit card and your signature.
RECEPTION CLERK: No, they haven't, ma'am. Not yet. Now I just need a credit card and your signature.
LUKE: Mom, is it okay if the girls come with me now and help me set And by girls he means the three of Wait. Hold on. Set up what? I have reservations for all of us for dinner. That's not happening now?
HARLEY: And by girls he means the three of Wait. Hold on. Set up what? I have reservations for all of us for dinner. That's not happening now?
JANE: Wait. Hold on. Set up what? I have reservations for all of us for dinner. That's not happening now?
LUKE: I don't know. Me and my friends are having this huge thing at our apartment and the girls said they'd help us set up.. We're going to be together all day Okay, okay. Do you want me to help or.
GABBY: Mom, it's his last night before Okay, okay. Do you want me to help or.
JANE: Okay, okay. Do you want me to help or.
LUKE: ( super sweetly ) Love your credit card..
JANE: ( to Host ) Hi. Adler. One.
HOST: Hi. Your table's almost ready Mrs. Adler. Would you like to wait at the bar?
JANE: ( trying to read upside Sure. You don't happen to have another Adler coming in, do you? Adler for two?
HOST: ( perusing ) No. You're our only Adler this ( relieved )
JANE: ( relieved )
JANE: ( to Bartender ) Pinot Noir, please. No, you know what? I'll have a Tanqueray Martini very dry with a twist.
JANE: Where's your..??
JAKE: Pedro got the stomach flu so I'm flying solo.
JANE: Really? Didn't know you knew how to be by yourself.
JAKE: Any chance you could just go easy on me? Just a one night free pass. You look good, Janey.
JANE: You do. You always do. Your hair's shorter.
JAKE: You do. You always do. Your hair's shorter.
JANE: I like it.
JAKE: I like it.
HOST: Mrs. Adler, your table's ready.
JAKE: Want some company, Mrs. Adler?
JAKE: We both have to eat. When's the last time we ate a meal Just the two of us? Alone? 1999.
JANE: ( thinks for a sec ) Just the two of us? Alone? 1999.
JAKE: So, come on. Once every ten years.
JANE: So.how are things in the fertility world?
JAKE: ( checks watch ) I can't believe it took you this long to bring that up.
JANE: ( trying not to laugh ) Sperm issues?
JAKE: Apparently. Yes.
JANE: A baby?! Really Jake? So.the next time you go to a graduation, you'll be what? Fifty-eight plus.
JAKE: I think the number you're looking for is 79.
JANE: Okay. So. Seriously, how is that Why are we talking about this? I thought we were going to have fun.
JAKE: Why are we talking about this? I thought we were going to have fun.
JANE: Where'd you get that idea?
JAKE: Just tell me, how long were you seeing him for?
JANE: Oh, please, it was five years ago.
JAKE: I know but I always wondered so.
JANE: Little jealous?
JAKE: The man's married now.
JANE: The man's married now.
JAKE: I don't care. How long?
JANE: Eight months.
JAKE: ( surprised ) Not long.
JANE: Not long.
JAKE: This song reminds me of your birthday party. the one in our old house.
JANE: Oh, yeah. That was such a fun So fun. You wore that white halter Oh, yeahhhh..
JAKE: So fun. You wore that white halter Oh, yeahhhh..
JANE: ( remembering ) Oh, yeahhhh.. ( remembering it all, looks
JAKE: Want to dance?
JANE: 25 THE DANCE FLOOR - MOMENTS LATER 25
JANE: ( astonished, laughing ) You're married to someone else.!
JAKE: Tell me about it!
JANE: ( sexy.. ) Hey.. I know you.
JAKE: ( looking deeply into her ) And I know you..
JAKE: Home sweet home.
JANE: Jane covers her face.
JAKE: That was one crazy ride.thought we were going to break the bed.
JANE: ( not looking good ) I'm having an out of body Totally. You're so great, Janey. I forgot how great. Holy shit.
JAKE: Totally. You're so great, Janey. I forgot how great. Holy shit.
JANE: Please shut up. I'm so dizzy.
JAKE: And the pilates are payin' off by the way.
JAKE: Oh no!
JAKE: You okay?
JANE: ( starting to rise ) Look the other way.
JAKE: `Cause I have to get up.
JANE: `Cause I have to get up.
JAKE: Jane.I know what you.
JANE: Look the other way Jake!!!
JANE: ( looking up at him ) WHAT is wrong with us?
JAKE: What do you mean? This was amazing. We just had a great time.
JANE: A great time? This is the dumbest thing two people have ever done.
JAKE: Really? I don't know.. I haven't thought it out, but off the top of my head I'd say it was smokin' hot so something about it wasn't so And, FYI, I like that you stopped getting bikini waxes. You've gone native. I was into it.
LAUREN: ( sotto ) You okay?
JANE: Yeah. Totally.
JAKE: I would like to propose a toast to your Mother.
JANE: ( what??? ) To me?
JAKE: I've done my part with you guys, but Jane. you very talented Oh, God.
GABBY: Oh, God.
JAKE: Gabby, I'm serious. Jane, you did a magnificent job, as you always When I look at the three of you beautiful kids.all grown up, I think of all the work your mother did, much of it without my help.
JAKE: When I look at the three of you beautiful kids.all grown up, I think of all the work your mother did, much of it without my help.
LUKE: Dude.pull it together.
JAKE: Janey, I take my hat off to you.
JANE: Okay, Jake. Thank you. Out of nowhere, sudden appreciation. But thank you. Not totally out of nowhere, Jane.if you know what I mean.
JAKE: Not totally out of nowhere, Jane.if you know what I mean.
JANE: ( quickly ) Which I don't.but.
LAUREN: What's he.?
JANE: Have no idea. Let's move on, shall we?
GABBY: I'd like to say something too. For real. No offense to the lovely Agness or her charming offspring.
JAKE: Not nice.
GABBY: I know. I'm sorry. But I just want to say I really loved today, just being with the original five. plus Harley, but he's like one of us. I don't think we've ever done this before. Had a meal together. And hung out like You mean other than the first 13 years of your life.
LAUREN: You mean other than the first 13 years of your life.
LUKE: I know what's she saying. It's been awesome..just for a whole day to be just. us.
JAKE: ( to Jane ) Something feels right in the universe again, doesn't it?
JANE: So who's coming home when? No one's told me the details.
JAKE: ( into cell ) ( turns away ) How's Pedro feeling?
LAUREN: ( responding to "Pedro" ) Okay, we're gonna help pack Luke up, the three of us leave day after tomorrow and Luke's home the end of the week.
JAKE: ( rejoins, finishing his I will. Call you when I land. ( slips cell away, not Janey, what flight are you on?
JANE: I'm on the uh, the four o'clock.
JAKE: Ah, too bad. I'm on the five That's nuts, why don't you try to get on the same flight?
LUKE: That's nuts, why don't you try to get on the same flight?
JAKE: Yeah, I could try.
JANE: It's been.great, but let's not . push it.
LAUREN: He was just trying to be nice.
JANE: I know. Okay, I've got to hit the road, guys.
JAKE: ( kisses her cheek ) It was really fun.
JANE: ( painfully ) It was.
ADAM: A very big ho.
ADAM: ( spotting something ) There she goes.
ADAM: down. Adam lowers the passenger window. She looks in, doesn't recognize him at first.
ADAM: It's Adam.
JANE: It's 8:30 Tuesday morning!
ADAM: Are we still okay?
JANE: Yes! Totally forgot! I'm so sorry! Can you give me a lift back to the house?
ADAM: ( quickly cleaning up the Sure.come on in.
JANE: Just getting a divorce?
ADAM: ( then ) Two and a half years ago.
JANE: ( embarrassed ) It's been a process.
ADAM: ( embarrassed ) It's been a process.
JANE: Here's the good news. In two more years you'll actually begin to feel normal again.
ADAM: In two more years I'll begin to feel normal? Why am I having trouble seeing that as good news?
JANE: Maybe that was just my experience.
ADAM: Oh God, I hope so.
ADAM: So if we move this wall back a bit, that can bring the arch forward, which is where you really want it, right?
JANE: Yes, I'd love that.
ADAM: ( sketching ) Thought so.
JANE: I have an idea. what if we move my bedroom like six or eight feet so I can get more of the morning ( sees Adam hesitate ) Not possible?
ADAM: Yes, but you'll wake up in the morning, open your bedroom door and fall 12 feet into your kitchen.
JANE: Ahhh! Forgot it was all open up But I get where you're headed. Let me see what I can do. This property is so great. Have you lived here a long time?
ADAM: But I get where you're headed. Let me see what I can do. This property is so great. Have you lived here a long time?
JANE: About ten years. I bought this place right after my divorce but it's taken me until now to be able to finally do this..
JAKE: Good morning! Am I interrupting.?
JANE: ( thrown that he's here ) Hi. No, well, we were just about done. Adam, this is my ex-husband, Jake. Jake, this is Adam Schaeffer, my architect.
JAKE: ( they shake hands ) Good to meet you.
ADAM: ( they shake hands ) Good to meet you.
JAKE: ( re: plans ) Can I take a look? Do you mind?
JANE: Everything's not 100% worked out Wow. You're finally getting the kitchen you always wanted.
JAKE: Wow. You're finally getting the kitchen you always wanted.
JANE: Huge bedroom.
JAKE: Huge bedroom.
JANE: It's not huge. Why don't I show these to you when we get a little closer.
ADAM: So, I think next we should stake out the addition. see how it all feels - size wise.
JANE: Sounds great.
ADAM: I'll e-mail you and we'll set it up. We did good work today. Jake, nice meeting you.
JAKE: ( turns to Jane ) Got time for a cup of coffee?
JAKE: Why haven't you returned any of my calls or e-mails?
JANE: Jake, come on. This is just too weird. We have to just never do what we did - ever again. You're an adulterer and I'm an awful person, basically. I haven't slept in days. What we did was just so wrong on so many levels.
JAKE: And it was so right on a couple of levels too. Admit it.
JANE: ( finally settles ) No! It wasn't! On no levels was it right!
JAKE: You can't say we didn't enjoy each other's company. Sitting at the bar, dancing.after dancing. Come on, you and I haven't had fun like that in a hundred years.
JANE: Yes! Because we're not supposed to have fun like that! We're divorced! Are you like, what? Unhappy at home? Does she not "understand" you? Did you just want to know what it would be like with someone my age? What is this?
JAKE: I'd be lying if I said I never think about you, Janey. I think about you. A lot. And no, it's not perfect at home. Obviously. Look at me. I've got three grown kids and I'm going to kindergarten interviews. I'm a walking cliche.
JAKE: thinking about what happened in New York. Fate brought us together once, maybe it happened again. And I know. you've moved on with your life, I get it, but you can't deny something real and honest happened that night. Can't we just go with it, see where it takes us. No one has to know. You were so great. So loose and sexy. How often do you get to be like that? You can run and open restaurants and build your perfect kitchen but what about having someone to hold you in the middle of the night.?
JANE: who's known you since you're 23 and loved you for most of your life.
JAKE: who's known you since you're 23 and loved you for most of your life.
JANE: short and it's tough. Don't discount what we have with each You know what they say. people in nursing homes who have plants live longer than the people without is a healthy choice for me?
JAKE: short and it's tough. Don't discount what we have with each You know what they say. people in nursing homes who have plants live longer than the people without is a healthy choice for me?
JANE: is a healthy choice for me?
JAKE: 37 EXT. JANE'S GARDEN - SPRINKLERS GOING OFF 37
JANE: Oh, God, it's official. We're having an affair.
JAKE: Why do you need to label Because that's what this is.
JANE: Because that's what this is.
JAKE: Yes, in its crassest form, maybe, if we were two other people.
JANE: Just because we were married for 19 years does not not make this an Okay, but since we were together for so long, it's not really that Really? You want to run that logic by your wife?
JAKE: Okay, but since we were together for so long, it's not really that Really? You want to run that logic by your wife?
JANE: Really? You want to run that logic by your wife?
JANE: Do me a favor, you're on my side. Can we switch? I feel disoriented.
JAKE: Since when is this your side?
JANE: Since ten years ago. Please.
JAKE: Could I interest you in a little.
JANE: They flop onto the opposite sides of the bed. Jane fans herself. So hot.
JAKE: ( turns to her ) Why do you think the sex is so much sexier this time?
JANE: I don't know.
JANE: I've gotta get to work.
JAKE: Me too. Okay.
JAKE: ( indicating his belly ) See what happens when you're not looking out for me. ( pats it ) She lets me eat everything.. pasta, cream cheese.
JANE: Can you hand me my robe?
JAKE: Why do I have to..?
JANE: Because the last time you saw me standing up naked I was in my Things look different lying down. You've gotten a little nuts.
JAKE: You've gotten a little nuts.
JANE: ( slipping into her robe ) Jake, I think it would be really good for us to not talk for a few days. Okay?
JAKE: ( turning back to her ) You know what I think just for the record? I think we're doing something kinda brilliant. All the things that tore us apart aren't issues anymore. I'd say our problems actually went away.
JANE: Didn't you always say you felt you weren't being heard? Wasn't that our big issue both of us always feeling rejected and unappreciated. Look at us now. You're so much more together, you're not exhausted all the time, you're not catering every weekend and busy all day with the kids and I'm calmer, less obsessed about work. I'm a partner. I'm there. We grew into the people we wanted each other to be! And I don't know. I appreciate things about you I couldn't even see
JAKE: Didn't you always say you felt you weren't being heard? Wasn't that our big issue both of us always feeling rejected and unappreciated. Look at us now. You're so much more together, you're not exhausted all the time, you're not catering every weekend and busy all day with the kids and I'm calmer, less obsessed about work. I'm a partner. I'm there. We grew into the people we wanted each other to be! And I don't know. I appreciate things about you I couldn't even see
JANE: ( not wanting to get into
JAKE: ( getting dressed ) Do you remember never having time for sex? Now look at us. We've already done it two times this week and it's only Tuesday. I swear to God, if half the couples who got divorced, could get back together 10 years later, their problems would be solved. I think we're on to something.
JANE: Not sure I agree and.also, we're not back together.
JAKE: And I know other divorced people think about this.they wonder - what if.. I think this is very French of us.
JANE: How is this French of us?
JAKE: I have a young wife but I'm having sex with my old wife. Not old, you know. Ex! I didn't mean old.
JAKE: You're doing that thing where you act like you're not listening. but think about what I'm saying, Do you have any of your homemade granola here? I haven't had it in so long.
JANE: You miss it?
JAKE: So much.
JANE: We sell it for $6.50 a bag at the Yeah, why give it away when you Kiss good bye?
JAKE: Yeah, why give it away when you Kiss good bye?
JAKE: She wants to be courted! I can do that! And honey, thanks for the..
TRISHA: Oh my God, now what? Three pies?! This is a feast!
JANE: I don't know what's going on, I have so much energy lately which I think is probably a result of. all the sex I'm having. Yeah. I'm actually not kidding. I'm having an affair. With a married man.
DIANE: What? When did this happen? Where'd you meet him?
JANE: Well, it. started in New York.
DIANE: In New York??? Last week?
JANE: Yeah, we did it once there and once here. Maybe more than once there, I was drunk so.
TRISHA: You had drunken sex with a married man in New York when you went for Luke's graduation?
JANE: ( laughs, embarrassed ) Turns out I'm a bit of a slut. ( re: pies ) Apple, Blueberry or Plum?
DIANE: Wait, wait, wait. Hold on.. You're not saying!!!!
JOANNE: ( clueless ) ( catching on ) No! You're not!
TRISHA: ( catching on ) No! You're not!
JANE: Oh, God, but I am. I'm having an affair with Agness Adler's husband.
TRISHA: That. Is. Genius!
JOANNE: But also sort of wrong.
JANE: I know.
DIANE: tell someone. This is the most out of control thing I've ever done. Literally. You know me.
JANE: tell someone. This is the most out of control thing I've ever done. Literally. You know me.
DIANE: wrong, or bad. Ever. So you're allowed this one. I'm sorry . I kinda love it.
JOANNE: the way.
JANE: the way.
TRISHA: than Jake.
JANE: ( a little insulted ) blossomed, you feng shuied your whole life. Just please, don't let him talk you into saving him.
TRISHA: blossomed, you feng shuied your whole life. Just please, don't let him talk you into saving him.
JANE: ( wonders what that means )
DIANE: about this. You don't have to cook for him or clean up after him or actually even sleep with him..
JANE: JANE ( CONT'D )
TRISHA: Oh, forget that. Agness is still the one we hate. Even in this Yeah, karma is the ultimate bitch on this one.
DIANE: Yeah, karma is the ultimate bitch on this one.
JANE: Reynaldo, I'm changing the breakfast menu, want to give it a little more life. What do you think?
REYNALDO: ( distracted ) What'd you do? Something to your hair?
JANE: I don't think so.
REYNALDO: Something about you looks different. Little more "caliente."
JANE: Another Chef in the kitchen nods in agreement.
REYNALDO: You see it Eddie?
EDDIE: Whatever it is, it's workin'.
JANE: ( listens ) No! I didn't do this again!
JANE: Adam, I'm so sorry. My mind is just. Forgive me.
ADAM: If I were your shrink I'd say maybe you don't really want to build this That's completely not true. I'm really sorry. Oh! I like it already!
JANE: That's completely not true. I'm really sorry. Oh! I like it already!
ADAM: Yeah, it's feeling really good. So, this becomes your office. We come down your new hallway, the windows are all along here.
JANE: Great. Love it.
ADAM: And from here to there.wait, let me get the door for you. Your kitchen. We're in the eating area. How's the size? We're at either end of the table.
JANE: ( laughs at Adam ) Feels perfect.
ADAM: I thought so too.
JANE: ( taking it all in ) This is heaven!
ADAM: It's gonna be cool. Want to go So if you were lying in bed, this would be your view.
ADAM: So if you were lying in bed, this would be your view.
ADAM: You okay?
JANE: ( grabs her heart )
JAKE: path is blocked by Pedro who sits on a tricycle staring up at
PEDRO: What were you doing in there?
JAKE: Going to the bathroom.
PEDRO: The toilet didn't flush.
JAKE: Yes it did.
PEDRO: Why were you in the shower with your clothes on?
JAKE: ( making sure Agness What are you talking about?
PEDRO: I heard the shower door close.
JAKE: What do you have, x-ray ears?
AGNESS: What's up Pedro?
PEDRO: Jake took a shower with his clothes Pedro! Darling.
JAKE: Pedro! Darling.
AGNESS: What's he talking about?
JAKE: I don't speak Pedro. That's your
AGNESS: ( to Pedro ) Don't go in the kitchen, P, I broke ( to Jake, annoyed ) Yo. Can you help?
ADAM: That looks amazing.
JANE: It's called a croque-monsieur. It's one of the first things I learned to make when I lived in Paris because the ingredients are really really cheap.
ADAM: When did you live in Paris?
JANE: In my early twenties. I went there to take a six day pastry class and ended up staying a year working as an apprentice in a bakery.
JANE: Thank you for taking my 47 e-mails and turning them into something so You are rapidly becoming one of the most appreciative clients I've ever Well, I'm not all that used to being able to count on anyone.
ADAM: You are rapidly becoming one of the most appreciative clients I've ever Well, I'm not all that used to being able to count on anyone.
JANE: Well, I'm not all that used to being able to count on anyone.
ADAM: ( surprised by that )
JANE: I know it's none of my business but. I'm trying to figure out why someone like you is divorced.
ADAM: And what'd you come up with?
JANE: Something in the you're too nice Yes, that and my wife fell in love with my best friend. Ex-best Oh, no!
ADAM: Yes, that and my wife fell in love with my best friend. Ex-best Oh, no!
JANE: Oh, no!
ADAM: We were all on a biking trip, he and his wife, me and my wife.through Tuscany and on the last day of the trip they announced they were in love.
JANE: That's awful.
ADAM: Yeah. Not a great plane ride home.
JANE: I can imagine, sitting there for eleven hours with your wife who you know is oh, that's rough.
ADAM: Actually they went on to Venice and I flew back with Carol, his wife. You can't imagine what it's like to sit next to someone who's been crying for ten straight hours.
JANE: I don't blame her.
ADAM: I was talking about me. Anyway, they're married now and it's pretty much an ongoing awful thing. But, you and your ex. When I saw him stop by for a cup of coffee the other morning, I thought Wow! That's the way it's supposed to be. You two seem to have it all figured We're not as figured out as you'd
JANE: We're not as figured out as you'd
JANE: ( laughs ) You know I hope you don't feel I've been interrogating you, but.
ADAM: Uh, constantly actually.
JANE: Everyone I know or have ever known has fixed me up. And then, sometimes I just meet women, I don't know how that happens, but.
ADAM: Everyone I know or have ever known has fixed me up. And then, sometimes I just meet women, I don't know how that happens, but.
JANE: But no girlfriend?
ADAM: Not yet.
JANE: Just like to date.
ADAM: Actually, I find it really stressful. You know, the last time I was in the dating world was 1978. It's a little more complicated these days. I can't tell you how nice it is to have a conversation with a woman and have the pressure off. Not to mention, a home cooked meal that no one else I know could possibly cook.
ADAM: That was a compliment. So you don't have a guy in your life at the moment?
JANE: ( starts to say something. ) EXT. JANE'S HOUSE - SAME TIME Jake rises from the bushes outside of Jane's Kitchen Window. He PEEKS in the window, balancing himself precariously on a stack of loose bricks. He sees Jane telling Adam a story and both of them cracking up. Jake leans in further to try to hear what Jane's saying when the bricks slip under his feet, he loses his balance and drops OUT OF THE FRAME.
ADAM: EXT. JANE'S HOUSE - SAME TIME Jake rises from the bushes outside of Jane's Kitchen Window. He PEEKS in the window, balancing himself precariously on a stack of loose bricks. He sees Jane telling Adam a story and both of them cracking up. Jake leans in further to try to hear what Jane's saying when the bricks slip under his feet, he loses his balance and drops OUT OF THE FRAME.
ADAM: This was so nice and relaxing and the lavender ice cream was actually the best dessert of any sort I've ever had. like, in my life.
JANE: Aw, thank you. I always make ice cream when I can't sleep, so I'm glad someone was here to eat it.
ADAM: ( pauses. ) Great getting to know you a little.
JANE: ( nods ) It was really fun.
JANE: Woops! Coming!
JAKE: leaning in the door frame.
JAKE: O.M.G. I thought he'd never leave. Hello Jane, you look very beautiful Mmmmm. Love when you smell like What are you doing here?
JAKE: Mmmmm. Love when you smell like What are you doing here?
JANE: ( easing away ) What are you doing here?
JAKE: Missed you.
JANE: It's nine o'clock. Where does your wife think you are?
JAKE: At yoga. Shall we do some downward facing dog?
JANE: Not tonight big guy.
JAKE: Is it really necessary for you to always say no before you say yes? I won't think less of you, you know.
JANE: Really, Jake, I'm a little tired, I was just gonna take a bath.
JAKE: Good. So, we'll just hang out. Ooooo, is that Croque-Monsieur? Who's plate is this? Yours or his?
JANE: ( eats her leftovers, Oh my God, just as I remember it.
JAKE: ( eats her leftovers, Oh my God, just as I remember it.
JANE: Don't you ever eat at your house?
JAKE: Pedro dictates all meals and he has a very limited palate. What kind of ice cream is that?
JANE: Lavender Honey.
JAKE: ( immediately ) Not sleeping?
JANE: Not at all. You?
JAKE: Never slept better. And my digestion is finally back on track. You've turned my world right side up, Jane. You know what this means, don't you?
JANE: That I've never really known how to live without you.
JAKE: That I've never really known how to live without you.
JAKE: Maybe we should be growing old Hate to tell you, big guy, but we already grew old apart.
JANE: Hate to tell you, big guy, but we already grew old apart.
JAKE: What's with the `big guy'? Is that because you think I'm fat or is it a term of endearment?
JANE: I have no idea why I keep saying that. I'm sorry. I'll stop.
JAKE: Thank you. I love how quiet it is in your house. I have no quiet in my life. Yeah, well, you live with a five year old.
JANE: Yeah, well, you live with a five year old.
JAKE: Yes.and don't forget Pedro.
JANE: So what does that mean exactly.? What's going on over there at your My marriage is. not turning out as I hoped. That's obvious.. Agness started out really looking up to me. We never used to fight but now. with the kid..lately we're all about where he's gonna go to school and now she says we need a bigger house, more help. I was thinking of cutting back at work. now that's never gonna happen. And she wants another baby before Pedro gets too old which I get but since we're always fighting. oh, God, listen to me.
JAKE: My marriage is. not turning out as I hoped. That's obvious.. Agness started out really looking up to me. We never used to fight but now. with the kid..lately we're all about where he's gonna go to school and now she says we need a bigger house, more help. I was thinking of cutting back at work. now that's never gonna happen. And she wants another baby before Pedro gets too old which I get but since we're always fighting. oh, God, listen to me.
JANE: Isn't a baby part of the deal when you marry a woman that age?
JAKE: Is it? I guess so. She's got me booked at the fertility center every other day and she's so amped up on hormone injections I may need to find an exorcist if she doesn't calm down. I wish it was funny. Incredible ice cream. I'm turning Remember when we used to smoke pot and eat your ice cream in the hot The "hot tub". That feels like a billion years ago.
JANE: The "hot tub". That feels like a billion years ago.
JAKE: How long has it been since you.
JANE: Me? Since before Lauren was born.
JAKE: 27 years?!!
JANE: At least.
JANE: Are you kidding me? Put that away! It's been too long.
JAKE: I'm not going to..
JANE: I'm not going to..
JAKE: Okay, why don't I leave this with you. ( It's kind of amazing. ) Maybe you'll take a few hits.
JANE: Jake places the joint in a drawer.
JAKE: So that nerdy architect likes you.you know that, right?
JANE: He's not nerdy and he definitely doesn't. We're working together.
JAKE: I was watching when you bent down to open the oven, his eyes were glued to your ass.
JANE: ( changing the subject ) Hey, will you do me a favor?
JAKE: ( looking down at her, Tell the truth, Janey is this a great affair, or what?
JANE: I don't know. It's my first.
JAKE: ( climbing down ) We don't even have to have sex and it's fun. ( arrives next to her ) I wish I could sleep over.
JANE: I gotta tell my shrink about this. This is a lot to handle. I guess you should go . I'm sure yoga's probably closed by now.
JAKE: It's okay.
JANE: Wow, wow, wow.what's happening, Don't get it.
JAKE: Don't get it.
JANE: I always get it. I have three Hello. Hiii. You still on the plane? How was Luke when you left? Oh, that sounds like fun. Let me know what I can bring... No! Don't have any idea where he is. Okay, honey, talk to you tomorrow. Now I'm lying.. Lauren and Harley are giving Luke a graduation party this weekend. Sweet, huh?
JAKE: ( into phone ) Hello stranger. Welcome back.
JAKE: ( into phone ) Just getting in my car. This weekend? Sounds great. Let me know what I can bring.
JANE: ( approaching him ) Dr. Allen!
DR. ALLEN: ( surprised to see her ) Jane. Hi. Am I seeing you today?
JANE: No, I just need to talk.and I was wondering if there was any chance you could squeeze me in for an emergency session. I'm sort of desperate for some advice. I brought you some of that coffee cake you like. Not as a bribe or I only have twenty minutes until my first patient.
DR. ALLEN: ( checks his watch ) I only have twenty minutes until my first patient.
JANE: That's fine. I'll talk fast.
JANE: ( whispering ) So, at this point, I just need some sound, unbiased guidance. Is having an affair with you know who a good thing or a bad thing? ( they stop at Dr. Allen's It's a bad thing, right? How could it be good?
DR. ALLEN: ( opening his door ) It's not good. It's not bad.
DR. ALLEN: You know, things happen in life and our job is to find out why. What we have to do is take a real look at this. Are you ready to do that?
JANE: I am. Definitely. I've made a list of what this can possibly be about.at my end. Can I read it to you?
DR. ALLEN: ( taking his seat ) Of course.
JANE: ( digging out her Thanks. I e-mailed it to myself. ( reads from Blackberry ) Okay. Am I still trying to figure out why the marriage failed? Do I want to get back together? Do we have unfinished business? Is this about revenge? Am I just. lonely? Or, is it my "caretaker" JANE( cont'd )
JANE: And, listen, I get how therapy works, I do. We look at things, we examine them, weeks turn into months, what..? we're going on eight years, right?.. and I'm okay with that, I like it. but in this case, I need to know what you really think. Like, I'd like you to say. Don't do this, it's absolutely wrong or go ahead, you'll be fine. I actually want to be told what to do.
DR. ALLEN: What's interesting is I'm already seeing you open up more than I have in some time. I'm thinking, through this affair, you may learn to view the world in a different I'm sorry. I need more concrete. Are you saying I should keep seeing him? Because, honestly, if the guilt and fear could go away, maybe I could let go a little and figure this out.
JANE: I'm sorry. I need more concrete. Are you saying I should keep seeing him? Because, honestly, if the guilt and fear could go away, maybe I could let go a little and figure this out.
DR. ALLEN: I wouldn't resist looking at this.
JANE: ( mulls that over quickly ) Okay. and another way of saying that is..?
DR. ALLEN: Let go Jane. It can't hurt.
NURSE: Jacob Adler?
WOMAN: Have fun.
NURSE: Okay, you know the drill. You can hang your things in the closest, the remote is on top of the TV and the materials are in the drawers. Please deposit your specimen in the cup and I'll see you when you're
JAKE: 59 JANE WALKS QUICKLY THROUGH A FARMER'S MARKET ON HER CELL. 59
JANE: ( on her cell ) Hey, where are you?
JAKE: At the office.
JANE: Want to grab some lunch?
JAKE: Absolutely. When?
JANE: Can you do it now? I have about an hour. Thought we could go to The Stanhope..get room service.
JAKE: ( rising ) Be there in ten!
JANE: See you there, Adler.
JAKE: ( hangs up ) She's comin' back!
LAUREN: Luke's so excited about his party. We can fit forty people in our place, can't we?
HARLEY: Sure, if nobody wants to sit Hey, there's your.
LAUREN: My what.
LAUREN: I'm sorry, I didn't mean to spit on you. I just needed to kiss you.
HARLEY: I'm sorry, I didn't mean to spit on you. I just needed to kiss you.
LAUREN: While you were choking?
HARLEY: It worked. I'm not choking Who did you just see?
LAUREN: ( turning ) Who did you just see?
HARLEY: No one. Thought it was your
HARLEY: Ohhhh my sweet Lord..
LAUREN: ( looks up from her salad ) Now what?
HARLEY: Honey, I totally forgot I have a conference call at 1:15, I gotta get back to the office. Waiter! Honey, stop eating, get the waiter. Call the one over there.
LAUREN: Harley, we can't leave, we're meeting with the Wedding
HARLEY: ( watches as Jake waits for Yeah, you know what? Today's not a good idea to do that. ( Sees Jane join Jake, they Oh my God.!!!
JANE: 62 INT. LOBBY CAFE - SAME TIME 62
WEDDING SPECIALIST: I adore October weddings. Let me show you what we did last October.
HARLEY: ( rising ) Honey, I'm gonna make that phone call from the.
HARLEY: ( nods ) Okay. Good. You just keep doing that and I'll.
HOTEL DOC: What's the room number?
RECEPTION CLERK: 408. Adler. His wife said he's conscious now.
HOTEL DOC: ( taking off ) On my way.
HOTEL DOC: Your blood pressure's good.
JANE: How's his heart?
HOTEL DOC: Do you have a heart condition, Mr. No. And I just had a check up.
JAKE: No. And I just had a check up.
JANE: You did? Oh, that's good.
HOTEL DOC: ( listening to his heart ) Deep breath. So, no chest pain?
JAKE: HOTEL DOC
HOTEL DOC: When you got dizzy, did you feel your heart was beating funny?
JAKE: Yes, but I was admiring my
HOTEL DOC: Well that's nice to hear after all these years. Did you forget to take any of your medications today?
JAKE: Took `em all.
HOTEL DOC: What all did you take?
JAKE: Uh..Lipitor, baby aspirin.. Yes, otherwise I pee 40 times a How long have you been taking the Not that long. And I only take it sporadically. I have to sneak it It reduces semen and that's not good for my wife right now.
JANE: ( sitting on the bed ) Yes, otherwise I pee 40 times a How long have you been taking the Not that long. And I only take it sporadically. I have to sneak it ( explains confidentially ) It reduces semen and that's not good for my wife right now. ( to Jane )
JAKE: ( embarrassed ) Yes, otherwise I pee 40 times a How long have you been taking the Not that long. And I only take it sporadically. I have to sneak it ( explains confidentially ) It reduces semen and that's not good for my wife right now. ( to Jane )
HOTEL DOC: How long have you been taking the Not that long. And I only take it sporadically. I have to sneak it It reduces semen and that's not good for my wife right now.
JAKE: Not that long. And I only take it sporadically. I have to sneak it It reduces semen and that's not good for my wife right now.
HOTEL DOC: ( looks over at Jane ) Yes, I prefer a lot of semen. Always have. ( rises ) Okay, well, thank you so much for coming. Looks like he's gonna live, ( packing up ) Yeah, my guess is Flomax is probably the culprit here. It can definitely give you a sudden drop in blood pressure so I suggest you stay off it for a few weeks, which apparently your wife will ( holds in a chuckle )
JANE: Yes, I prefer a lot of semen. Always have. Okay, well, thank you so much for coming. Looks like he's gonna live, Yeah, my guess is Flomax is probably the culprit here. It can definitely give you a sudden drop in blood pressure so I suggest you stay off it for a few weeks, which apparently your wife will
HOTEL DOC: ( packing up ) Yeah, my guess is Flomax is probably the culprit here. It can definitely give you a sudden drop in blood pressure so I suggest you stay off it for a few weeks, which apparently your wife will ( holds in a chuckle )
JANE: Yeah. Really good for me.
HOTEL DOC: And I suggest you rest quietly for the rest of the afternoon. No hanky panky, Mrs. Adler.
JANE: No chance. I assure you.
LAUREN: Are you acting like this because of the wedding? Tell me the truth?
HARLEY: ( head down ) Not at all. Swear to God.
LAUREN: Because I don't want to be one of those couples where the guy goes into a coma the whole time we plan the wedding. It's not worth it to
HARLEY: ( deep sigh, rises ) Okay! We're back in business!
JAKE: See. Just that move.you have no idea. Not everyone's like that.
JANE: ( mutes Oprah, then: ) Jake, I have a confession to make. Back when we broke up. I knew it wasn't all your fault.
JAKE: You mean that? You've never said that to me before.
JANE: I know. Because when you cheated, I didn't have to. But I think in some way, I gave up on us and I'm not sure you ever really did.
JAKE: I still haven't.
JANE: Are you and Agness. still having
JAKE: Only if she initiates it.
JAKE: I'm trying not to rock the boat at home until you and I figure this This is a little trickier at my end than yours.
JANE: Right. Yeah. Okay.. Now I know you're gonna think I'm leaving because of what you just said, but I'm not. I really have to get back to work.
JAKE: ( takes Jane's hand ) We got really close there for a
JANE: ( into phone ) ( into phone ) Hi, hope I'm not interrupting Adam! Oh! Hi.
ADAM: ( into phone ) Hi, hope I'm not interrupting Adam! Oh! Hi.
JANE: Adam! Oh! Hi.
ADAM: I just found out there's a French Film Festival in town and that made me think of you so I was wondering if you'd like to go to the opening night tomorrow night.
JANE: Oh, that sounds so fun. Let me think, tomorrow's what?
JAKE: ( desperate, whispers ) Say you're busy. Agness has a dinner thing tomorrow, I can come ( Jane hesitates ) Oh, um, you know, I'd really love to, but, my son is coming home from college the next day and I have a bunch of things I have to do to get ( hates lying, Jake crosses I'm so sorry.
JANE: Oh, um, you know, I'd really love to, but, my son is coming home from college the next day and I have a bunch of things I have to do to get I'm so sorry.
ADAM: No, don't worry. No problem. Maybe we can see something another night.
JANE: Absolutely. I would love that.
ADAM: Melanie, how would you and your husband like two tickets to the opening of the French Film Festival? Reserved seats.VIP
FEMALE WORKER: 68 INT. HOTEL ROOM - MOMENTS LATER 68
JAKE: You'll make the whole thing? The roast chicken, the-
JANE: mashed potatoes, sauteed string beans and double fudge chocolate cake. I know your favorite dinner, You haven't called me Jakey in 10 years. This has been a great day for us. So, do we have a date?
JAKE: ( touched ) You haven't called me Jakey in 10 years. This has been a great day for us. So, do we have a date?
JANE: ( fixes Jake's hair ) We have a date.
ON JAKE: His eyes glued to the clock. We are IN JAKE AND AGNESS' BEDROOM. Jake and Agness lie on their bed, both doing paper work. Pedro is asleep between them. Jake gets up, slipping his cell into his hand.
AGNESS: ( not looking at him ) Why are you taking your cell to the Oh. Didn't mean to. ( places it back on the
JAKE: Oh. Didn't mean to.
AGNESS: Carry him to his bed, will you?
AGNESS: ( while reading ) And hurry back. I'm ovulating.
JAKE: You are?
AGNESS: Why do you think I cancelled my
LAUREN: Oh, Mom, I keep forgetting to tell you about our meeting at The Stanhope. We went there for lunch two days ago and met with their Wedding Specialist..I think that could be the place, Mom..
JANE: Two days ago you went to The Stanhope.for lunch?
HARLEY: Yes and guess what? We saw
LAUREN: What is that supposed to mean?
HARLEY: Who wants wine? Anyone?
GABBY: ( looking in the fridge ) Mom, you have an insane amount of food in here, even for you.
JANE: ( taking out last night's I knew you were all going to be here for the weekend so I made a bunch of stuff last night.
LAUREN: Looks like Jake Adler's favorite meal to me.
JANE: ( laughs ) Very funny.
HARLEY: Jane looks to Harley again when they all hear a car horn HONK. Jane LOOKS OUT THE WINDOW and sees JAKE'S PORSCHE PULL UP with Luke in the passenger seat. The Girls rush out the Kitchen door. Harley sees Jake getting out of the car and pours himself a larger glass of wine as Jane approaches him.
JANE: Just then, Luke enters and Jane lights up.
JANE: ( hugs Luke )
LUKE: ( surveying all the food ) Mom, this looks amazing.
JAKE: ( sheepishly joins the ( briskly ) ( holding Luke's backpack ) Where should I put this.?
JANE: ( briskly ) ( holding Luke's backpack ) Where should I put this.?
JAKE: ( holding Luke's backpack ) Where should I put this.?
JANE: ( turns her back on him,
JAKE: That looks incredible.
JANE: Jake flinches.
HARLEY: Jake? Glass of wine?
JAKE: Uh, sure. Thanks.
HARLEY: ( not looking up ) No thank you.
JANE: ( not looking up ) No thank you.
JAKE: ( into cell ) Hi Ag. Just got here.
JAKE: ( into cell ) Okay, I will. Yeah, no, I know. ( turns back to the family ) I'm sorry guys, I gotta hit it.
JANE: Agness is making some pasta thing and she ran out of olive oil.
JAKE: Agness is making some pasta thing and she ran out of olive oil.
GABBY: ( to Lauren ) I told you I'm bringing someone, ( looking right at him ) out everything really nicely. ( pouring another drink ) Nobody wants wine but me?
JAKE: ( to Lauren ) I told you I'm bringing someone, ( looking right at him ) out everything really nicely. ( pouring another drink ) Nobody wants wine but me?
LAUREN: ( to Lauren ) I told you I'm bringing someone, ( looking right at him ) out everything really nicely. ( pouring another drink ) Nobody wants wine but me?
JANE: ( to Lauren ) I told you I'm bringing someone, ( looking right at him ) out everything really nicely. ( pouring another drink ) Nobody wants wine but me?
LAUREN: ( looking right at him ) out everything really nicely. ( pouring another drink ) Nobody wants wine but me?
JANE: ( looking right at him ) out everything really nicely. ( pouring another drink ) Nobody wants wine but me?
JAKE: ( looking right at him ) out everything really nicely. ( pouring another drink ) Nobody wants wine but me?
JANE: ( looking right at him ) out everything really nicely. ( pouring another drink ) Nobody wants wine but me?
JAKE: ( looking right at him ) out everything really nicely. ( pouring another drink ) Nobody wants wine but me?
JANE: ( looking right at him ) out everything really nicely. ( pouring another drink ) Nobody wants wine but me?
GABBY: out everything really nicely. Nobody wants wine but me?
JANE: out everything really nicely. Nobody wants wine but me?
HARLEY: out everything really nicely. Nobody wants wine but me?
LUKE: Here, now you can stay another five You have three bottles in there.
JAKE: Janey, can I talk to you privately? Just for a sec.
HARLEY: There you go.. Somebody's talkin' graduation gift.
JANE: What is it, Jake? What?
JAKE: I don't get not calling me back.
JANE: `Cause I don't care what your excuse is.
JAKE: She didn't go out, Jane. She cancelled her plans and every time I tried to call or write, she caught me. I wanted to be here.
JANE: You know what, Jake? You were worried about rocking the boat at home? Well now you're rocking my boat and I don't like it.
JAKE: ( stopping her ) Honey, don't let one night.
JANE: blaming you. I fully participated in this. But I don't want to do it anymore. The last thing in the world I should be right now is your mistress, sitting around at nine at night wearing heels and perfume and blowing out candles and wrapping everything in Saran Wrap because your wife cancelled her plans. It was cliche and humiliating.
JAKE: ( wistfully ) You lit candles?
JANE: pretty good life these past 10 years. I figured it out and I moved on. I no longer feel alone or divorced. I just feel normal. You know how long that took, just to get my balance back?
JAKE: wrong direction here. But the worst part is. It's feeling like it used to feel. All the little untruths that are hard to catch but add up.
JANE: wrong direction here. But the worst part is. It's feeling like it used to feel. All the little untruths that are hard to catch but add up.
JAKE: ( joining them ) Everything okay out here? ( Jane and Jake turn ) The kids are gettin' hungry.
HARLEY: ( joining them ) Everything okay out here? ( Jane and Jake turn ) The kids are gettin' hungry.
JANE: ( walks away, pauses in We were just.
HARLEY: ( as she passes ) None of my beeswax, Jane. ( once she's gone ) And please never tell me.
LAUREN: What's up?
JAKE: Nothin', punky.
LAUREN: ( taking Jake back inside ) Yeah? So, we're going to see you tomorrow night, for sure, right? Okay.What did you see and what do you know?
JANE: Okay.What did you see and what do you know?
HARLEY: Nothing. Really.
HARLEY: ( confesses rapidly ) Okay, he checked in, you arrived, you met in the elevator, possible kiss there, Doctor went up, Doctor came down, thumbs up. That's it. Have no idea what happened in ( dying. ) Have you told Lauren?
JANE: ( dying. ) Have you told Lauren?
HARLEY: No and I won't
LUKE: ( joining them ) Mom. Dad's leaving.
LUKE: ( from the Dining Room ) Thanks for picking me up, Dad.
JANE: glances out the window at Jake as he drives off. One of the kids says something, distracting her, and she laughs.
OMIT: 81 IN THE BATHROOM 81
JANE: REVERSE - ON ADAM Very happy to see her.
ADAM: Hey. You look fantastic.
JANE: I'm feelin' a little fantastic.
ADAM: ( trying not to react to This is for you.
JANE: Really? Thank you! Come on in. Can you hold this for a sec? Oh my God. this could be the best cake I ever made. You want a piece? It's like. beyond.
ADAM: I think I'm good.
JANE: ( focusing on the gift ) I can't believe you brought me a gift?! So nice!
JANE: An appointment book?
ADAM: I sort of assumed you didn't have Because I never remember our. I took the liberty of filling in our next two meetings. And marked them with post-its and wrote them in red and then highlighted them in neon yellow.
JANE: Because I never remember our. I took the liberty of filling in our next two meetings. And marked them with post-its and wrote them in red and then highlighted them in neon yellow.
ADAM: I took the liberty of filling in our next two meetings. And marked them with post-its and wrote them in red and then highlighted them in neon yellow.
JANE: Thank you!
JANE: I'm not. Wow, that cake is good.
ADAM: I'm not. Wow, that cake is good.
JANE: So, let me ask you something and please don't think I'm weird or out of line or anything. but do you by any chance poke smot?
ADAM: Do I.??
JANE: I mean do you smoke pot?! I haven't asked anyone that question since I was twenty-two.
ADAM: Uh. No, I don't. But I have. But I don't think I've had any since my kids were born.so not in like 27 Oh my God, we have kids the same age! And I haven't had any since my kids were born either!!! Except for tonight. I had one hit off of
JANE: Oh my God, we have kids the same age! And I haven't had any since my kids were born either!!! Except for tonight. I had one hit off of
ADAM: You might not want to hold that quite so. Hello Officer.
JANE: ( turns, SEES the Cop Car, I actually know him! Blueberry scone and a latte. ( the Cop nods, pulls away ) Oh my God! That was horrifying. I instantly saw myself in a mug shot. My heart is leaping out of my. ( then distracted ) Wow. This is the most insane dashboard I've ever seen. It's like we're in a cockpit. It's spectacular. Adam, what kind of car is this?
ADAM: ( turns to him ) Did you get this high from one hit?
JANE: ( turns to him ) Did you get this high from one hit?
ADAM: Did you get this high from one hit?
JANE: Yes! I don't know what they've done to pot over the last 30 years but it rockkkkks!
JANE: ( whispers ) Don't take too much, it's really
ADAM: ( while holding in the I haven't had fun in almost three years, Jane. ( takes another huge hit ) Bring. It. On.
KID: Who's got the reefer?
JANE: How you feeling?
ADAM: Totally fine.
JANE: Me too.
JANE: Hi. love your dress. Hey Harls.
HARLEY: ( that's weird. ) Adam, this is my oldest, Lauren and her fiance, Harley. ( giggles to Kids ) We're on a date.
JANE: Adam, this is my oldest, Lauren and her fiance, Harley. We're on a date.
ADAM: ( starts moving to the By the way How great is this party? Let's be the last to leave. ( bops to the MUSIC then
JAKE: Hello Jane.. Adam.
ADAM: ( all smiles ) Hey, good to see you again.
JANE: Adam, this is Agness, Jake's Now that is an odd sentence for me to say since that was me for most of my life. Seriously. How weird is that? Both of us married to the same man!
AGNESS: ( dismissing the idea ) You know. it's. hey, what are you gonna do?
JAKE: Yeah, why go there.
JANE: Because there, is.fascinating. I mean, when you think about it, it sort of links us in some cosmic crazy way, doesn't it, Agness? Of all the men on the planet, we both said "I do" to this guy.
AGNESS: Yeah. Twenty-five years apart. I know you're having like an "Ah-Ha' moment, but I think I'm gonna get a refill. Adam, good meeting you.
ADAM: ( whispers to Jane as She's got a really scary tattoo.
JAKE: Janey, can I talk to you for a quick sec?
JANE: He always needs me for a quick sec. You okay?
ADAM: Oh, I'm very okay!
JAKE: What's going on? You're acting I'm stoned.
JANE: ( whispers giddily ) I'm stoned.
JAKE: What?! You smoked the joint I gave You told me to! It's a-mazing!!!
JANE: You told me to! It's a-mazing!!!
JAKE: But you weren't supposed to smoke it with him, you're supposed to smoke it with me!
JANE: Somebody's jealous..
JAKE: Yes, of course. Why shouldn't I be. you're my.
JANE: What? What am I, Jake?
JAKE: You're my ex-wife, lover, oldest friend and girlfriend.
JANE: Okay. You're hilarious. And because of that, even though I kind of hate you/love you, I'm going to let you have some.
JAKE: You love me? I mean, I heard "hate" had top billing, but.
HARLEY: Oh my God, you're smoking weed in the guest bathroom.
JAKE: Yes we are and we'd appreciate it if you didn't tell anyone about No. Never. Adding it to the list.
HARLEY: No. Never. Adding it to the list.
JANE: Care for a toke?
HARLEY: I don't really smoke marijuana.
JANE: ( blowing out smoke ) Me either.
HARLEY: Okay, one hit.
JANE: ( looks at herself in the
LAUREN: They must be hammered.
HARLEY: Or something like that.
ADAM: ( to Agness ) Sweetest divorced couple in the
JANE: ( spotting Adam ) ( to Jake ) Jake, I'm gonna..
JANE: Wow. Fun is not overrated, is it?
ADAM: You know what's great?
JANE: How much I like you.
ADAM: How much I like you.
JANE: ( really touched ) Thank you. I really like you a lot too.. even though.oh.. you didn't say, "a lot".
ADAM: But I was thinking it.
JANE: So. I'm not too old for you?
ADAM: How can you be too old for me when I'm older than you.
JANE: I just figured all these women you get fixed up with are thirty-five.
ADAM: Your age is one of my favorite things about you. Do you think you have any more of that chocolate cake at your house?
JANE: 91 A BLACK SCREEN - LIGHTS POP ON 91
ADAM: 91 A BLACK SCREEN - LIGHTS POP ON 91
ADAM: Officially now the best date of my life. Pre or post divorce.
JANE: Get out. All right..so basically I can make you anything on the menu or even not on the menu. Just name it.
ADAM: No? Really? Okay. What about a. warm chocolate My speciality!
JANE: My speciality!
ADAM: ( bites into it ) Oh. Baby.
JANE: ( smelling hers ) It's crazy how good this is.
ADAM: It's crazy how good this is.
JANE: ( biting into one, nods ) Yeah, and I'm not even stoned Neither am I.
ADAM: Neither am I.
JANE: ( happy about that ) Oh, then.merci, Monsieur.
ADAM: Do you remember when I asked you the other night, if you were dating anyone and you said no. It sounded to me like you were maybe saying yes.
JANE: I was sort of seeing someone. But, it's over now. `Cause I'm not strong enough to fall for someone who's with someone else. Wouldn't be able to take that again.
ADAM: `Cause I'm not strong enough to fall for someone who's with someone else. Wouldn't be able to take that again.
JANE: I understand. I wouldn't say it was over if it wasn't.
ADAM: Adam turns Jane's hand over and looks at it a bit
JANE: ( explains ) Cooking scar.. From a very hot batch of caramel.
ADAM: Ooooo. What about that one?
JANE: That one's from boiling sugar.I wasn't very skilled in the beginning. And that one is from a large French.
JANE: Saute pan.
ADAM: Would it be okay if I.?
ADAM: I was going to say, kiss you.
JANE: I figured.
ADAM: If you feel this is in any way wrong because we're working . I don't .
JANE: . I don't .
JANE: Hey sleepy! What time did you get Have no idea. Lauren and Harley drove me home.
LUKE: Have no idea. Lauren and Harley drove me home.
LAUREN: ( joining ) I'm surprised you remember that.
JANE: ( turns to see Lauren ) Hi. I didn't know you slept here.
LAUREN: We were playing Scattagories with Gabby and Ollie then Harley fell asleep on the couch.
LUKE: I got cold in the middle of the Okay, who wants what? Hi baby.
HARLEY: I got cold in the middle of the Okay, who wants what? Hi baby.
JANE: Okay, who wants what? Hi baby.
GABBY: ( looks out the front What's Dad doing here?
JANE: ( quietly ) Everything okay?
JAKE: I left Agness.
JANE: No, don't say that.
JAKE: She saw it my eyes, Janey.
JANE: Saw what?
JAKE: That I'm still in love with you. I admitted it, I told her about us and I've left her. For you.
JANE: No, no, no.. What do you mean??? Jake, this is crazy! Are you telling me the truth?
JAKE: ( nods ) This feels so right Jane.
GABBY: ( from the porch ) What's going on?
JANE: Nothing. Honey, set the table, I'll be right in.
GABBY: Mom, you're the only one who cares if the table's set.
JANE: Okay, then do it for me..just go in please.
LUKE: What's up, Dad?
JAKE: Having some problems on the home front, just wanted to talk to your Mom for a sec.
LAUREN: Problems on the home front? Is one of you seeing someone else?
JAKE: ( off Jane's cue ) No, it's nothing like that. I just need to find a hotel or something for a few days `til I get my head It's that serious?
GABBY: It's that serious?
LUKE: Mom, can Dad stay here for a few days? He can share my room.
JANE: I don't think that's the best idea, Daddy, are you crying?
GABBY: Daddy, are you crying?
JAKE: I'm sorry.
LUKE: ( begging )
JAKE: Mommy's the best cook in the world!
JAKE: Thank you for saving me Janey.
JANE: Jake, you knew the kids were all here. Shouldn't we have talked about this? Agreed this was the right thing to do? This is so typical. Only thinking about works for you.
JAKE: I'm sorry, I guess I should've called before showing up.
JANE: And I'm not sure you even left Agness. Maybe she saw something last night and threw you out.
JAKE: What's the difference? I was drowning over there. I'm not going to get that many more chances in my life to figure myself out. Janey, let's use these couple of days to see if we can make this work.
JANE: We can't, Jake. I told you this the other night. Please listen.
JAKE: But you were all pissy because you thought I stood you up. Things are different now. I'm a free man. Can we just hug? I hate that you're being so distant. It's literally giving me a pain in my Oh, God.
JANE: Oh, God.
JANE: See! Too much!
JAKE: Okay! Good note.
JAKE: Can I help with what you're doing? Hold your basket or.
JANE: I'm fine..
JAKE: Okay. I'm going to go to the video store and get us all a dvd to watch tonight. We'll have movie night. Just like old times. How's that? I'll make the popcorn.
JANE: ( into phone ) ( whispers ) I love knowing I'm coming back Oh, hi. I slept great. How `bout
JAKE: ( whispers ) I love knowing I'm coming back Oh, hi. I slept great. How `bout
JANE: ( nods, turning slightly ) Oh, hi. I slept great. How `bout
BUCK HENERY: Are you here for an affair, sir?
DUSTIN: BUCK HENRY
BUCK HENRY: The Singleman party, sir?
JAKE: I'M SO HAPPY!!! Any leftovers?
JAKE: Any leftovers?
GABBY: Are you kidding?
JAKE: Any of that noodle thing left? Where's Mom? She disappeared so fast after the movie.
GABBY: She's probably sleeping.
LUKE: I think she's on her computer.
LUKE: Tonight was weird.
GABBY: So weird. Still is.
JAKE: I loved tonight.
GABBY: Yeah. That's why it was so weird. Just seeing you in your robe in our kitchen. Remember when you weren't even allowed in. Mom used to go out to the car to talk to you.
LUKE: ( handing Gabby his You know, I don't even really remember you and Mom as a couple.
JAKE: What do you mean. you were ten when we broke up.
LUKE: I was eight actually and I don't know.it's all foggy to me now.
JAKE: You don't remember us in Hawaii or all sleeping in that tent in the Yeah, of course, but I don't remember like you and Mom hugging or waking up together.
LUKE: Yeah, of course, but I don't remember like you and Mom hugging or waking up together.
LUKE: It's okay. I'm not damaged or anything. You've been good Speak for yourself dude. I'm definitely damaged from the Hello troops.
GABBY: Speak for yourself dude. I'm definitely damaged from the Hello troops.
LAUREN: Hello troops.
JAKE: Why are you still here?
LAUREN: I don't know, you and Mom sleeping in the same house. Harley thought we should stay.
HARLEY: She exaggerates. I just thought perhaps you might want to talk later, or . Is that the noodle Oh. Sorry. I think I ate it all.
JAKE: Oh. Sorry. I think I ate it all.
GABBY: I didn't know anyone wanted any.
JAKE: I didn't know anyone wanted any.
JANE: Wait, I can't see that one. Can you back up a little?
JANE: ( hmmm ) Very festive.
ADAM: O-kay. Thank you. Gift from my ex-sister-in-law. Have no idea why I kept it. Into the pile. Hey, check out the pile, Jane.
JANE: ( then ) Hey, the pile's moving..
ADAM: Murphy, get out of there!
ADAM: ( re-enters in an odd What about this? I was in India and I had it made.
JANE: And kinda girly.
ADAM: ( taking it off ) Not what I'm going for. ( holds up a sweater ) Gray sweater. Very old.
JANE: But cute.
ADAM: ( slips it on ) You sure? You don't have to say you like it just because you nixed the last 20 things.
JANE: Keep it. It's cozy. Boy, you have a lot of clothes.
ADAM: ( looks at the floor ) Uh, not anymore. Okay, we're almost done. You are helping me so much by the way.
JANE: Adam, I really have to pee.
ADAM: Oh good. Me too. Meet you back in Putting this on my desk..
JANE'S VOICE: I'm not in there.
ADAM'S VOICE: Can't hear you.
JANE: 104 INT. ADAM'S BEDROOM - SAME TIME 104
ADAM: Mother of
JANE: What are you doing in here?!!!
ADAM: ( covering the screen with Get it off!!!
JAKE: ( covering himself ) I wanted to see you.
JANE: Why are you naked!?!
JAKE: ( sits up straight, the lap Why do you think?
ADAM: Okay, I'm gonna be sick.
ADAM: Not working! Big close up!
ADAM: Okay! Good night!
GABBY: Everybody okay?
LAUREN: What's happening?
JAKE: Okay. Let me explain. The reason I left Agness wasn't just because my marriage wasn't working. I've also fallen in love.back in love. with your mother. Or maybe I never stopped loving her.
GABBY: Is this a joke?
JAKE: I know this is shocking, but I think this is the best thing that's ever happened to me. Your Mom and I have been seeing each other, on the side. ever since New York.
LAUREN: Mom, is this true?
JANE: ( dying ) That part is, but..
JAKE: I found my way back home. I just hope she'll take me back.
JAKE: Why's everyone crying? Why isn't this good news?
LAUREN: Because we're still getting over the divorce.
LUKE: Mom, are you and Dad getting back No. we're not.
JANE: No. we're not.
HARLEY: Glad you're here, boss.
HARLEY: Now I know you don't need my advice Jane, but.
JANE: I got this one.
HARLEY: I know you do.
JANE: Knowing how to be divorced is next to impossible. and sometimes over the years, I've thought that your Dad and I weren't quite finished. And, as it turns out, we weren't. So I went out of my comfort zone, which, I found out, if you're really honest with yourself, isn't all that comforting. So, I experimented with a part of myself. I wanted to find out if, after all these years there was still something there between us.
LAUREN: And was there?
JANE: There kinda was.
GABBY: But Mom, you have to understand how bonkers this sounds to us. For two people who for years couldn't be in the same room together.to then have an affair??? You and Dad.!
JANE: I know.it was hard for me and I was doing it. I hope you'll forgive me for confusing you or betraying your trust, but I did this for me and for him and I realized even though your Dad and I once had something extraordinary. we no longer really fit together. But he is a part of me and always will be.
LUKE: So it's over now? You guys are back to being divorced.
JANE: For better or for worse.
HARLEY: Group hug?
ADAM: ( into phone ) Yeah no problem.we can definitely do that. ( notices Jane ) James, can I call you back, someone just. Thanks. ( rises ) Hi. May I come in?
JANE: Hi. May I come in?
ADAM: I didn't call you last night because I wasn't sure you would take the call and then I thought that could go on for months and.
JANE: I didn't call you last night because I wasn't sure you would take the call and then I thought that could go on for months and.
ADAM: I would have taken the call.
JANE: Oh. Well, anyway, it's better to say these things in person. Adam, the man I was seeing was.
ADAM: I think I'm up to speed on that I want you to know it didn't last long and you're divorced, so maybe you understand, when marriages end, there's doubts and hurt, and you've got kids and sometimes you wonder if you did the right thing and when the moment presented itself.
JANE: I want you to know it didn't last long and you're divorced, so maybe you understand, when marriages end, there's doubts and hurt, and you've got kids and sometimes you wonder if you did the right thing and when the moment presented itself.
ADAM: I get it. I could imagine it.I I told him it wasn't going to work between us but I guess he didn't believe me and unbeknownst to me, he showed up at my house yesterday. He left Agness and.
JANE: I told him it wasn't going to work between us but I guess he didn't believe me and unbeknownst to me, he showed up at my house yesterday. He left Agness and.
ADAM: Jane. I actually think I understand what happened but.uh.you know I'm not as macho as I appear and I think it's probably best for us not to get any more. involved because your relationship with Jake isn't really done and I know you're saying it is, but he's in love with you and for everyone's sake, that should probably get resolved.
JANE: Wow. So that's how grown ups talk.
JANE: Please tell me you're not going to quit my job and ask Peter to take over because then I'll never get to see you and.
ADAM: I was thinking of asking Peter to step back in.
JANE: Oh. I hope you don't.
ADAM: 128 OMIT 128 129 EXT. ROAD TO JANE'S HOUSE - LATE DAY 129
JAKE: I'm sorry.
JANE: How far back does that sorry go?
JAKE: How far back do you need it to go?
JANE: Way back.
JAKE: Consider it an all inclusive apology. From not being the husband you needed to showing up nude on your bed last night.
JANE: Yeah, what were you thinking with that move?
JAKE: That you'd find me irresistible.
JAKE: Never considered the alternative.
JANE: Gotta love that about you.
JAKE: bat again and blew it.
JANE: We blew it the first time around. This time. we just should've known better. Too much has happened. Too much time has passed.
JAKE: it right?
JANE: was totally right either?
JAKE: gonna be.
JANE: to be good.
JAKE: to be good.
JANE: to be good.
JAKE: to be good.
JANE: Probably would've been better if you hadn't been married.
JAKE: Probably would've been better if you hadn't been married.
JANE: Probably would've been better if you hadn't been married.
JAKE: Probably would've been better if you hadn't been married.
JANE: Probably would've been better if you hadn't been married.
JAKE: It may never have happened if I wasn't married.
JANE: I don't regret it either.
ADAM: Good morning.
JANE: Good morning.
ADAM: Did you know it's good luck to start building in the rain?
JANE: ( obviously lying ) Yes. It's a well known, very good, really lucky omen.
ADAM: ( obviously lying ) Yes. It's a well known, very good, really lucky omen.
JANE: ( looking up ) Good, I could use one. ( then ) Would you all like to have your meeting in the house.it's dry and I've got hot coffee.
ADAM: Jane, I need to ask you You wouldn't happen to have any of those amazing chocolate croissants, would you?
JANE: You wouldn't happen to have any of those amazing chocolate croissants, would you?
ADAM: You wouldn't happen to have any of those amazing chocolate croissants, would you?
JANE: Oh.. you like those, huh?
ADAM: I have incredibly fond memories of I don't have any here, but we could go into town and get some. right out of the oven.
JANE: I don't have any here, but we could go into town and get some. right out of the oven.
ADAM: You want to do that?
JANE: Yeah. love to.
