INTO THE WILD: Written by Sean Penn Based on the book by Jon Krakauer
DRIVER: Hey!
DRIVER (CONT'D): Come here.
DRIVER (CONT'D): (referring to items we see sitting on dashboard) You left your watch, your comb, your change...
BACKPACK: Keep it.
DRIVER: I don't want your money.    And I already have a watch.
BACKPACK: If you don't take it, I'm gonna throw it away. I don't want to know what time it is, what day it is, or where I am.
BACKPACK (CONT'D): I don't want to see anybody. None of that matters.
DRIVER: (handing him the boots) Take em.
DRIVER (CONT'D): If you make it out alive, give me a call, and I'll tell you how to get the boots back to me.
BACKPACK: Hey, do me a favor, will ya?     Take a picture of me.
DRIVER: You gonna be alright?
BACKPACK: I'll be better than that. (I'll be who I am.)
CHRIS (V.O.): I see them standing at the formal gates of their colleges, I see my father strolling out under the ochre sandstone arch, the red tiles glinting like bent plates of blood behind his head, I see my mother with a few light books at her hip standing at the pillar made of tiny bricks with the wrought-iron gate still open behind her, its sword-tips black in the May air, they are about to graduate, they are about to get married, they are kids, they are dumb, all they know is they are innocent, they would never hurt anybody. I want to go up to them and say Stop, don't do it--she's the wrong woman, he's the wrong man, you are going to do things you cannot imagine you would ever do, you are going to do bad things to children, you are going to suffer in ways you never heard of, you are going to want to die. I want to go up to them there in the late May sunlight and say it, her hungry pretty blank face turning to me,
CHRIS (V.O.) (CONT'D): her pitiful beautiful untouched body, his arrogant handsome blind face turning to me, his pitiful beautiful untouched body, but I don't do it. I want to live. I take them up like the male and female paper dolls and bang them together at the hips like chips of flint as if to strike sparks from them, I say...
BILLIE: Here they are.
CARINE: Who wrote that?
CHRIS: Well, it could've been either one of us, couldn't it?
CHRIS (CONT'D): There's a lot of great poems in there.
CARINE: Thanks, big brother.
BILLIE: You scared the daylights out of me, jumping on to that stage, oh my god.
WALT: Congratulations, son.
CHRIS: I'm starving.
CHRIS: My grades are gonna be good enough, I think, to get into Harvard Law.
WALT: That's a big deal. What do you have left in your college fund?
CHRIS: It's an inheritance, dad. I've only been spending it as a college fund...Exactly twenty-four thousand five hundred dollars and sixty-eight cents.
BILLIE: That's very specific.
CHRIS: I had to go to the bank this morning.
WALT: Well, we'll certainly contribute the balance for Harvard.
CHRIS: Yeah. I've got to figure out what I'm going to do. I got a lot of things to pack and organize here first.
BILLIE: I'm so glad you're getting out of that place you're living. It was so much nicer when you lived on campus.
WALT: You'll come to Annandale before you disappear on us, won't you?
CHRIS: (reluctantly) Sure, I will.
BILLIE: You promise?
CHRIS: (whining) Mom.
BILLIE: Well, your father and I want to make a present to you.
WALT: We want to get you out of that junker.
CHRIS: What's a junker?
CHRIS (CONT'D): The Datsun?
WALT: Yes.   We want to get you a new car.
CHRIS: (appalled) A new car? Why the hell would I want a new car? The Datsun runs great.
CHRIS (CONT'D): (Mocking the Cadillac) Do you think I want some fancy boat? Or are you worried about what the neighbors might think?
BILLIE: We weren't going to get you a Cadillac, Chris. Just a nice new car that's safe to drive. You don't know when that thing's just going to suddenly blow up.
CHRIS: Blow up? Blow up?! Are you guys crazy? It's a great car. I don't need a new car. I don't want a new car. I don't want anything. Thing, thing, thing.
CHRIS (CONT'D): But, thanks anyway.
WALT: Everything's gotta be difficult.
CHRIS: I said thank you. I just don't want anything.
CARINE: I wouldn't say no to a new car.
CHRIS: (mumbling a rib) Ivana Trump McCandless.
CARINE: (laughing it off) Shut up, Chris. (to her parents, seriously) Seriously, I'll pay you back.
CHRIS: This is Emory University freshman Chris McCandless reporting from the vault at Thompson Hall.
CHRIS (CONT'D): We have just dynamited the hatchway and are the first human beings to step foot into this vault in over a hundred years. Somewhere in here lies the secret of the great beast within us all. A beast built on lies, corruption, and greed.
CHRIS (CONT'D): And there it is! The legendary beast Mocra.
CHRIS (CONT'D): (in mock fright) We've got to get out of here quick and re- secure the hatch while we make a plan of how to kill the beast.
CHRIS (CONT'D): Well, it looks like we've succeeded -
CHRIS (CONT'D): - at least for the moment, in sealing the beast back into the vault. Your humble reporter, Chris McCandless will now struggle with the journalistic question of ethics: Will he retain his reporter's objectiveness or save the future of human truth by slaying this awful beast?
CHRIS (CONT'D): Once again, your humble reporter Chris McCandless.
OS STUDENT: What is this? Filmmaking 101?
OS STUDENT #2: Point the camera at me. I'm a star.
CHRIS: (with a Wizard of Oz tone) Pay no attention to the voices behind the curtain.
CHRIS: Ted! We've got a monster in the vault. It represents all the corruption, the deceit, and greed within us all. I must slay it.
TED TURNER/STUDENT: (worst acting we've ever seen) McCandless, how many times have I had to tell you? I've had to tell you that you are a journalist and you can't get personally involved in your cases...or your stories.
CHRIS: Ted! I know how to kill it. And I'm the only one who knows. You can't keep sending me on stories and expecting me to do nothing! I look like some kind of an idiot.
TED TURNER/STUDENT: Do you know who you're talking to?   I'm Ted Turner.
PANICKED STUDENT: McCandless! You've got to hurry! The monster is scratching at the hatchway. He'll be out in no time.
TED TURNER/STUDENT: (threatening) It'll mean your job, Chris McCandless.
CHRIS: (to Ted) That's it, Ted. Fire me if you want but this beast must be slayed.
CHRIS (CONT'D): (into camera) This is the only thing that can kill the monster. It's gonna be risky but without great risk, there is no freedom. So we will now hear from the famous singer - Chris McCandless.
CARINE (V.O.): When we were little, Chris was very to himself. He wasn't anti-social, he always had friends, and everybody liked him - but he could go off and entertain himself for hours, he didn't seem to need toys or friends. He could be alone without being lonely. The secrets our parents kept, though unknown to Chris and I, led to bouts of rage and even violence between them that we had been forced to witness since we were very young. It seemed like they never fought without us. I remember the first family meeting to let Chris and me in on their plans for getting a divorce. They wanted us to choose which of them we'd live with. I cried my eyes out. But the divorce never happened, though the threats and meetings never stopped. It wasn't long before Chris and I shut off -- we would tell mom and dad to go ahead and get the divorce. Chris and I just wanted to get away from their fights and mom kept promising to get out and take us with her as soon as their company made enough money. Dad had been the young genius [that] NASA enlisted to do [crucial] designs for the American satellite radar systems that would be our answer to the Russian Sputnik. And mom and he later started up a consulting firm combining her get-up- and-go resourcefulness with his wealth of knowledge. By the time the company actually made its first million, the careerism and money seemed to erase her memory of the promise she'd made us.
CARINE (V.O.) (CONT'D): I think this is when Chris began to see "careers" as a diseased invention of the twentieth century and to resent money and the useless priority people made of it in their lives. He'd begun planning to "slay the beast"...to make himself free.
CHRIS (V.O.): I need a name.
CARINE (V.O.): Toward the end of June, Chris had mailed our parents his final grade report.
CARINE (V.O.) (CONT'D): Almost all A's. "A" in Apartheid in South African Society and History of Anthropological Thought; A- in Contemporary African Politics and the Food Crisis in Africa; and on it went. Clever boy, my brother.
CARINE (V.O.) (CONT'D): But by the end of July we hadn't heard anything from him and my parents were getting very worried.
CARINE (V.O.) (CONT'D): Chris had never had a phone, so they decided to drive down to Atlanta and surprise him.
CARINE (V.O.): When they arrived at the apartment, there was a "For Rent" sign in his window, and the manager told my parents that Chris had moved out at the end of June.
CARINE (V.O.): When they got home, I had to hand them all the letters they had sent Chris that summer which had been returned in a bundle.
CARINE (V.O.): Chris had instructed the post office to hold them until August 1st so that mom and dad wouldn't know that anything was up. Some part of me understood what he had done. That he had spent the previous four years fulfilling an absurd and onerous duty in graduating from college.
CARINE (V.O.) (CONT'D): And now, at last he was unincumbered. Emancipated from the stifling world of parents and peers. Abstraction, security, and material excess. Those things that cut Chris off from the raw truth of his existence. I only hoped he was safe...and I missed him.
CHRIS: (singing) Sign, sign. Everywhere a sign. Fuckin' up the scenery, breakin' my mind.
CHRIS (CONT'D): Do this. Don't do that. Can't you read the sign?
FOREST RANGER: U.S. Forestry. Could you step out of the tent please?
CHRIS: (as he drops the knife to the ground) Sorry. I thought you were a bear.
FOREST RANGER: (approaching) I don't blame you. You're less than a hundred yards from the nearest den. That's why I came over here to talk to you. Do you have some identification?
CHRIS: No. I'm sorry. My name's Alex. I've been travelling a lot and I got robbed and my identification was taken.
FOREST RANGER: You mind if I take a look in your tent?
CHRIS: Go ahead.
FOREST RANGER: You're not the character who knocked down our sign, are ya?
CHRIS: (giggles) No.
FOREST RANGER: Because there was a sign indicating that camping was allowed by permit only.
CHRIS: Well, I don't have a permit.
FOREST RANGER: No, I'm sure you don't. Listen, it looks like you've got your food secured pretty good, so I'm not gonna make you move on tonight. But, these bears out here are nursing young and you know how that goes. Next time, stop at the Rangers station and get yourself a permit.
CHRIS: Alright. I appreciate it. I'm gonna be headed towards the coast tomorrow.
FOREST RANGER: Be careful.
CHRIS: (mocking imaginary conversation among passengers) Is that a man mommy? That's no mere man, sweetheart. That's Alexander SuperTramp! King of the wild frontier!
DRIVER: This is where I turn off.
CHRIS: Alright man.    Thanks a lot.
POLICEMAN: How're you doin' this evening?
CHRIS: (reluctantly) I'm alright. What's the matter?
POLICEMAN: You wanna put your backpack down on the hood of my car.
CHRIS: Why?
POLICEMAN: Because I asked you to, sir.
CHRIS: But I haven't done anything wrong.   These are my personal items.
POLICEMAN: Do you know that it's unlawful to hitchhike on this stretch of highway.
CHRIS: You're kidding.
POLICEMAN: Do you see a safe area for a vehicle to stop? We got a tree-lined highway without a substantial shoulder here. And we've had a lot of accidents on this road from people stopping in the traffic lane for hitchhikers.
CHRIS: Alright, but...I mean, you stopped your car. You're in the traffic lane. And you can see, there's hardly any cars out here. Plus, it's a straight road; you can see for a long ways.
CHRIS (CONT'D): (in disbelief) There's really been accidents along here?
POLICEMAN: May I see some identification?
CHRIS: I don't have any.
POLICEMAN: You don't have any identification?
POLICEMAN (CONT'D): (pulling out a ticket) Well, I'm gonna site you for unlawful hitchhiking. You don't have to appear. You can send a check directly to the Humboldt County Clerks Office for restitution. If you don't pay it within 30 days, you're subject to fine and warrant. I'm gonna trust that you're gonna give me accurate information. What's your name?
CHRIS: (a beat) McCandless. Christopher Johnson McCandless.
CARINE (V.O.): If Chris were trying to disappear, it would have been a pretty uncharacteristic lapse for him to give the police his real place of residence. Though my parents had already contacted the Annandale police with their initial concerns, this ticket arriving from California made them frantic.
CARINE (V.O.) (CONT'D): My father called one of his old government friends who put him in touch with a private investigator, someone who'd done work with the DIA and the CIA. Using the Willow Creek ticket as a starting point, the investigator began chasing down leads. Most of them led far afield -- to Europe and South Africa. Ultimately turning up nothing. What my dad couldn't believe was that he'd given up his car. He seemed to love that Datsun so much. It sounded just like Chris to me, though. He was very much of the school that you should own nothing except what you could carry on your back at a dead run.
JAN: Hi. We just barely saw you there, under that crazy hat of yours. We couldn't back up - the van's reverse is broken.
CHRIS: (as Jan fiddles with side door handle) Oh.   That's okay. Thanks for stopping.
JAN: This door's a little tricky, I'll get it.
JAN (CONT'D): Hop in, that's Rainey.
RAINEY: Hey, I'm Rainey.
JAN: And I'm Jan.
CHRIS: Hey, Rainey.    Hi Jan.    I'm Alex.
RAINEY: Alex of the hat.
CHRIS: (closing the side door) Yeah.
RAINEY: Were you out there a long time hitching?
CHRIS: Couple of days. But sometimes I forget to put my thumb out.
JAN: Probably, the rest of the time, that hat scares `em away.
JAN (CONT'D): When's the last time you ate something?
CHRIS: (excited) See that? I've got this book and it shows you all the plants and berries that are edible. You can find things wherever you go.
RAINEY: We were just in town getting some beads and stuff. Jan does handicrafts, so we're usually going from one swap meet to another. She's so good at what she does, we sold everything. So, we set up camp at Orick Beach. You're welcome to camp there with us.
JAN: And eat there with us.
CHRIS: (between large swallows) So, I just left the car. It was a great car too. I'd driven it cross country the first time when I got out of high school. I had some really great adventures with it. That thing would just go and go. I mean, it was an `82 but if I'd kept it, it would've lasted me forever.
RAINEY: So, you're a leather now.
CHRIS: I'm a leather?
CHRIS (CONT'D): (looking to Jan) What's a leather?
JAN: You're a leather tramp. That's what they call the ones that hoof it on foot. So, we're technically rubber tramps.
RAINEY: (interjecting) As we have a vee-hi-cle.
JAN: Alex could have a vehicle. If he didn't burn his money. Why would you want to do that?
CHRIS: I don't need money.   It makes people cautious.
JAN: (a little irritated) Well, you have to be a little cautious Alex. That book of yours is all well and fine but you can't depend entirely on leaves and berries.
CHRIS: I don't know if you'd want to depend on much more than that.
JAN: Where's your mom and dad?
CHRIS: Makin' their money somewhere.
JAN: Come on Chris. You look like a loved kid. Be fair.
CHRIS: Fair?
JAN: You know what I mean.
CHRIS: I'll paraphrase Thoreau -- "Rather than love, than money, than fairness, give me truth."
RAINEY: You look like shit.   There's the truth.
RAINEY: (regarding Chris wrapped up in wood) Geez. If I struck a match to you, I'd have warmth and dinner at the same time.
CHRIS: Where's Jan going?
RAINEY: Well, my friend, all is not well on the hippie front.
RAINEY (CONT'D): You're an industrious little fucker, aren't ya... Yeah, it's funny how things happen at particular times. I've loved that woman for a lot of years. But you know, she's got a...story. We've been going through this thing real quietly cause, well...So, after running into you last night, this thing we were going through quietly, she started talking about. You know what I mean?
CHRIS: I think so.
RAINEY: You think what?
CHRIS: I think she's probably quietly disconnecting. It doesn't feel right to her to be close to you if there's a hole of some kind somewhere else.
RAINEY: That's a helluva insight. Jesus!... You're not Jesus, are you? You gonna walk on that water and get her back for me?
CHRIS: Actually, I'm a little afraid of water.
CHRIS (CONT'D): It's true. But it's something I've got to get over sometime.
CHRIS (CONT'D): So, I'll swim in it if you'll carry the firewood back to the campsite.
RAINEY: I'll carry.   Shit-yes I'll carry.
RAINEY: I thought you guys might need a little heat.
JAN: (moving to Rainey) That's not hot enough. Put your arms around me.
CHRIS: I'm going to go down the beach a ways and read a little bit. I'll bring the rest of that wood back before nightfall.
RAINEY: Alright. We might take a run into town to grab some food for tonight.
CHRIS: Sounds good.
JAN: You know what Alex ought to do, Rainey? He ought to come out to the Slabs this winter.
RAINEY: Oh yeah.
RAINEY (CONT'D): You'd like that if you're still on the road. Lot of fellow travelers.
CHRIS: What is that? The Slabs?
RAINEY: It's down in Niland, California.   You know where the Salton Sea is?
CHRIS: Near San Diego, yeah?
RAINEY: Well about 200 miles Northeast of there, but yeah. Niland's off the east shore of Salton. Wild place. The navy bulldozed and abandoned a base there. All that's left is a grid of concrete foundations. They're scattered over about a square mile or so.
JAN: When the weather turns cold across the rest of the country, people show up there by the thousands: snow birds...
RAINEY: Drifters...
JAN: Sundry vagabonds...
RAINEY / JAN: Like ourselves.
JAN: Livin' on the cheap under the sun.
CHRIS: You sell your handcrafts there?
JAN: Oh yeah. And a lot of second-hand goods. There's a swap meet. The people are cool. There's even some kids running around sometimes. Most everyone there, if they're not avoiding the cold, are at least dodging the IRS.
RAINEY: Or the FBI.   CIA! DDT!!!
JAN: It's good. You should check it out. If you come, I'll make a proper hat for you. (standing, shaking out her blanket) Well, Alex. I'm gonna clean up and the old man and I are gonna get some rest. (indicating the sleeping bag) Looks like you got yourself a good bag there.
CHRIS: Yeah...my mother made it from a kit.
CHRIS (CONT'D): I'm gonna sleep out here by the fire.     I want to read a little bit.
JAN: You're wonderful.   Don't make me worry about you.
JAN: He reminded me...
RAINEY: I know.
CARINE (V.O.): In early September, mom and dad got a call from the Annandale police notifying them that Chris' abandoned car had been identified by the Arizona Highway Patrol after a group of rare flower hunters stumbled upon it in the desert. There were no signs that Chris had intended to return to it. But there wasn't any evidence of struggle. The police said they thought Chris had chosen to leave it behind and not that it had been taken from him. Nonetheless, the initial comfort that gave mom and dad, quickly turned to their realization that Chris was actually trying not to be found.
CARINE: The year Chris graduated high school he bought the Datsun, used. He wanted to drive it cross-country and visit our old neighborhood in California. The day before he left was my dad's birthday. Chris made a speech...
CHRIS: (a little drunk, a little emotional) Dad, you and I have had our differences over the years...but on your birthday I want to tell you how grateful I am for all the things you've given me. And that you did it starting from nothing to working your way through college and busting your ass to support us kids. So, in return, I've been busting my ass a bit...at Domino's Pizza -
CHRIS (CONT'D): and I've gotten you this token, this damned expensive token, as a token of that appreciation.
WALT: (patting his son the back) Would you look at that.
CARINE: Jesus, you must've had a lot to drink.
CHRIS: Too much and not enough. I used to believe all that stuff. That whole story. I thought maybe if I said it again, I'd believe it. But I don't.
CARINE (V.O.): The day after the party, Chris left on his trip and ended up staying away most of the summer. It was nearly three months before he walked back into our house in Annandale. He had a scruffy beard, his hair was long and tangled, and he was rail thin. As soon as I heard he was home, I ran into his room to talk to him. In California, he'd looked up some old family friends who still lived there. He'd found out that long after he had been born, our dad had continued a relationship with his first wife Marcia in secret.
CARINE: And that one lie had led to another. That two years after Chris was born, dad had had another son with Marcia. Worse yet was that it was Marcia to whom he was still legally married at the time. And it was Chris and I who were the bastard children.
CARINE: Dad's arrogance made him conveniently oblivious to the pain he caused. And mom, in the shame and embarrassment of a young mistress, became his accomplice.
CARINE (CONT'D): He never did tell mom and dad that he knew. But Chris measured himself and those around him by an impossibly rigorous moral code. He loathed what he considered mom and dad's hypocrisy and resented what they considered guidance. Chris submitted to dad's authority through college but I knew he raged inwardly the whole time. It was inevitable that Chris would rebel. And when he did, he did it with characteristic immoderation.
CARINE (V.O.) (CONT'D): My father is a brilliant man. But he had made some terrible mistakes. And to some extent, it seemed Chris was making him pay an awful price.
WAYNE: (rolling a cigarette without moving forward with the truck, his knees rattling up and down) How're you doing? Wayne Westerberg.
CHRIS: (shaking hands) Hi Wayne. Alex McCandless.
WAYNE: Seems like every time I come on this road, there's somebody hitching out here who looks as skinny and unfed as you.
WAYNE (CONT'D): Look, I gotta stop in Ethridge to drop something off (know what I mean?)
WAYNE (CONT'D): How `bout you and I grab something to eat down there?
CHRIS: Oh, I wouldn't want to burden you.
WAYNE: How long has it been since you've had anything to eat?
CHRIS: Couple of days. I kinda ran out of money.
WAYNE: Well, there's no choice about it.    I'm gonna get you some dinner.
WAYNE: So where is it you're headed?
CHRIS: I was thinking about doubling back through the Canadian side of Glacier Park.
WAYNE: Yeah, I used to have a girlfriend who'd go there, camp on the Black Feet Res. She was into all that American Indian stuff.
WAYNE (CONT'D): I can bring you to the border at Sweet Grass once you've had some food.
CHRIS: Well, that'd be great.   What do you do out here?
WAYNE: Well, I do a lot of things. Computer programming. Video game repair. I'm a licensed pilot, own a grain elevator in Carthage and another one a few miles out of town. But in the summertime I run a combine crew, follow the harvest from Texas way the hell north to the Canadian border. We just got done cutting barley for Coors and Anheuser Busch. But then I got this little black box deal on the side (You know what I mean?)
CHRIS: You mean those free satellite TV deals?
WAYNE: (as though he hadn't brought it up) You said it, not me.
WAYNE (CONT'D): (smiling, responding to wind)
CHRIS: Who are these guys?
WAYNE: Those are my Hudderites. Agriculture's a pretty transient business. These guys come off the Hudderite colony looking for work. I always got work for people. Then that guy -
WAYNE (CONT'D): (pointing at guy making most of his snore) That's Kevin. He's with me most of the time. He's not a Hudderite. He's from Madison.
CHRIS: Madison.    Okay.
WAYNE: Listen, you don't want to go out there on the road tonight. Why don't you just roll your sleeping bag out and play like a Hudderite until morning.
CHRIS: Thanks Wayne. I will.
WAYNE: Get a good sleep. See you in the morning.
WAYNE (O.S): Okay. Now take hold of the joystick, get the feel of header, idle it down with the toggle switch...
WAYNE (CONT'D): That's it. That's it. Now take it on out and make yourself some money.
WAYNE: I'm gonna break out some whiskey. Alex, you want anything other than that beer?
CHRIS: I'd take a White Russian if you've got it.
MAN #1: What are you Alex, a Commie?
CHRIS: No, I just like White Russians.
WAYNE: I haven't got anything like that here. But I tell ya what. And I know I speak for everybody. You wanna come work with us in Carthage, we'll hook you up on the grain elevator and get you a White Russian down at the Cabaret.
CHRIS: Really?
WAYNE: Dawn tomorrow, engines roaring. (to the others like a mock blues singer) "Pot o Gold. Oh that pot o gold."
ALL: "Pot o Gold.    Gotta get that pot o gold!"
CHRIS: (raising his beer) To Carthage.
WAYNE AND HIS MEN: (toasting) To Carthage.
WAYNE: Okay Kevin, get all the machines back to the elevator. I'm gonna show Chris to his room.
KEVIN (O.S.): (over CB) I've got dibs on that shower, that shower's all me.
WAYNE: (laughs) First come, first serve buddy.
WAYNE: (carrying Chris' pack for him) Come on up in here. This'll be your room for as long as you hang about.
WAYNE: Shower's down the hall. If you hurry you can beat the rest of the boys to it. But you do want to grab a shower cause we're all heading over to the Cabaret in exactly thirty-six minutes. So, get your dancing shoes on. There's foo-foo in the medicine cabinet. I think it's Brut. (slaps his own face as if he's putting on cologne) Then you want to put your charm in overdrive cause we like to PAH-TAY!
MAN #1: I got first!
MAN #2: (in a kid voice) You had first last night!
MAN #1: (entering the bathroom) Well, if you wanna wash my back, cowboy...
MAN #2: You go ahead, fairy.    Just don't use all the soap.
WAYNE: Alex, this is Gail . This is the one to go to for that White Russian you've been wanting. Of course the quid pro quo can be hazardous.
GAIL: Shut up, Wayne. (to Chris) You want a White Russian, sweetie?
CHRIS: (shyly) Yes please, ma'am.
WAYNE: Yes please, ma'am?
WAYNE (CONT'D): Ain't he great?
GAIL: (to Chris) Don't pay any attention to him.
WAYNE: Anything to do with hunting, preserving the meat, smoking it or whatever, you talk to Kevin over there. That's your man.
WAYNE (CONT'D): Outdoors-man. What's the interest in all that?
CHRIS: I'm thinking about going to Alaska.
WAYNE: Alaska, Alaska? Or city Alaska?     The city Alaska does have markets.
CHRIS: (with a drunken, excited energy) No, Alaska, Alaska. I want to be all the way out there. On my own. No map. No watch. No axe. Just out there. Big mountains, rivers, sky. Game. Just be out there in it. In the wild.
WAYNE: In the wild.
CHRIS: Yeah. Maybe write a book about my travels. About getting out of this sick society.
WAYNE: (coughing) Society, right.
CHRIS: Because you know what I don't understand? I don't understand why, why people are so bad to each other, so often. It just doesn't make any sense to me. Judgement. Control. All that.
WAYNE: Who "people" we talking about?
CHRIS: You know, parents and hypocrites. Politicians and pricks.
WAYNE: (tapping a long finger against Chris' forehead) This is a mistake. It's a mistake to get too deep into that kind of stuff. Alex, you're a helluva young guy, but I promise you this: You're a young guy. Blood and fire! You're juggling blood and fire!
GAIL: (chimes in) Who are you to be giving advice to anybody?
WAYNE: Blood and fire...What? Mr. Happy. That's who I am. Gimme a kiss.
WAYNE (CONT'D): (mock opening his zipper, in a high-pitched voice) Come on, give Mr. Happy a kiss!
CHRIS: Now, that's who could be President!
WAYNE: Workin' time!
WAYNE: So, what do you think about all this? (The working life)
CHRIS: I like all this.
WAYNE: (to Chris, as he lowers himself down the man-lift) I gotta take a piss.
MAN #1: I warned him about those little black boxes.
WAYNE: (to arresting agent) You wanna get that zipper for me? (and then calling out to his crew) Sorry boys. Gonna have to shut down for a while. Alex! You come back and work for me anytime. (to Chris and the men) Gail's got all your checks, guys. I shouldn't be away too long.
GAIL (O.S.): (pre-lap) Where are you gonna go?
CHRIS: I've been thinking a lot about Alaska.
GAIL: Alaska? What kind of nut-nut are you? Alex, it's October for Christ's sake. You go to Alaska, you go in the Spring. This time of year you wanna head south. Personally, I like Las Vegas. One-armed bandit. That's what I like.
CHRIS: Yeah, maybe I ought to put off going to Alaska, at least so I can get settled up there in decent weather.
GAIL: South. You want to go south. You want me to take you out to the highway?
CHRIS: (putting on his cowboy) Little lady, I walked in, I can walk out.
GAIL: You take care of yourself now, Alex. You got a whole family here depending on it.
CHRIS: I will. Thanks Gail .   And tell Wayne, I'll drop him a line.
GREEN SUIT: Can I help you?
CHRIS: Yeah. If I wanted to paddle down the river, where's the best place to launch out of?
GREEN SUIT: "To launch out of?" What's your experience level?
CHRIS: Not much.
GREEN SUIT: Any?   Do you have a permit?
CHRIS: A permit for what?
GREEN SUIT: You can't paddle down the river without a permit. If you like, you can apply for one here, get yourself some experience, and I'll put you on the wait-list.
CHRIS: Wait-list?   To paddle down a river?
GREEN SUIT: That's right.
CHRIS: (giggling) Well, how long do you have to wait?
GREEN SUIT: I've got an opening May 2003.
CHRIS: (laughing) Twelve years?
GREEN SUIT: Well, you could always join a commercial raft trip and go with a licensed guide. They usually have a few last minute cancellations. I think it's about two- thousand dollars.
CHRIS: Thanks for your help.
CHRIS: (to himself) I'm Superman. SuperTramp.
MADS: (yelling out to Chris) Hello!
CHRIS: Hello.
MADS: You can join us!
MADS (CONT'D): We have hotdogs!
MADS (CONT'D): I am Mads.
CHRIS: Hi. Alex.
SONJA: I am Sonja.
SONJA (CONT'D): Hello Alex.
MADS: We are from Copenhagen.   And you are from the rapids.
CHRIS: I am.
SONJA: My Got!
MADS: Crazy man. You're a crazy man!    Sonja, he is a crazy man. (to Chris) I'll make you a hotdog.
MADS (CONT'D): Just one minute. One minute...
MADS (CONT'D): I love this. Don't you love this? This is nature. We see it in the American movies. How come you're crazy?
CHRIS: Well...
MADS: (interrupting) Because that's crazy! You come down the rapids. What do you want on your hotdog? Mustard and relish?
CHRIS: You have ketchup?
MADS: No, I have mustard and relish.
CHRIS: Mustard and relish it is then.
MADS: Sonja, you want a hotdog?
SONJA: (in Danish) Of course I want a hotdog.   Why are you stupid?
MADS: (translating) She asked me why I'm stupid. And I say, well...like I ask you why you're crazy and you say "well." Where are you going?
CHRIS: I haven't decided.
MADS: We like it here very much. We went to Los Angeles. And then, we went to Las Vegas.
SONJA: Las Vegas is very nice.   The universe is very good.
MADS (CONT'D): You can take kayak around Lake Mead and then take the river down to Mexico.
CHRIS: How far are we from Lake Mead?
MADS: Sonja, how far is Hoover Dam?
SONJA: Maybe three hundred thirty kilometers...like two hundred miles.
CHRIS: Man, I wonder if I could go all the way down into the Gulf of California.
MADS: (entering the water with Chris' hotdog) I go with you. We leave Sonja here.    You and me in kayak - we go to Mexico.
SONJA: (in Danish) You're embarrassing.   Idiot.
MADS: I like the meeting you.
CHRIS: Thank you. I'm very happy to meet both of you too.
CHRIS (CONT'D): Well, guys I really appreciate the hospitality but I wanna make camp down- river a ways so I better take off before dark.
MADS: He went thattaway!   The crazy man - he went thattaway!
SONJA: Just like in the movies.
CARINE (V.O.): It would be Christmas in a couple of months. And the last news we'd had was about his car being found. I woke up a couple of days ago, and for the first time, I was surprised to realize that it wasn't only my parents who hadn't heard from Chris. I wondered why he hadn't tried to call in case I might answer. He could've hung up if it wasn't me.
CARINE: But why he didn't send a letter, maybe through a friend. I got mad. But I told myself it was good. It made me remember that there was something more than rebellion, more than anger that was driving him. Chris had always been driven, had always been an adventurer. When he was four years old...
CARINE: ...he once wandered six blocks away from home at three o'clock in the morning.
CARINE: He was found in a neighbor's kitchen, up on a chair, digging into their candy drawer.
CARINE: Whatever drawer he was opening now must have something sweet in it.
IMMIGRATION OFFICER (V.O.): Why'd you go to Mexico?
CHRIS (V.O.): I thought I'd run the whole river into the Sea of Cortez. The stupid dams dried it up.
IMMIGRATION OFFICER (V.O.): How long were you on your own down there?
CHRIS (V.O.): 36 days.
IMMIGRATION OFFICER (V.O.): How'd you know?
CHRIS (V.O.): Fingers and toes.
CHRIS (V.O.) (CONT'D): After the river dried up, I ported the kayak and got a lift to Golfo.
CHRIS (V.O.): I paddled south about 20 miles.
CHRIS (V.O.): That's when I saw the cave and everything went upside down.
CHRIS (V.O.): A sandstorm hit and I was pretty much stuck. My kayak blew away, so I left it and walked up the beach, hitched back north, and here I am.
IMMIGRATION OFFICER: 36 days, wow. I guess they're gonna have to watch that spillway a little better.
CHRIS: What they ought to do is open up the dams and let the rivers flow.
IMMIGRATION OFFICER: I can't disagree with you on that. Okay, Alexander SuperTramp. I think we're gonna let you out of here shortly but you've got two working weeks to get an ID card in the United States. You can't be crossing these borders without identification, are we understood?
CHRIS: Yes, sir. I've eaten enough sand to send me back to the city anyway.
CHRIS: (counting) One...Two...Three -
CHRIS: As Alexander Supertramp returns to civilization...a hobo. (quietly) I'm a for real hobo.
CHRIS: Can you tell me how to get an ID card?
SOCIAL WORKER: Did you lose your identification sir?
CHRIS: Yeah.
SOCIAL WORKER: No birth certificate? Nothing?
SOCIAL WORKER (CONT'D): Ouch. Alright. Well you're gonna have to work that out with the DMV. You can catch them in the morning.
SOCIAL WORKER (CONT'D): The closest one is Montebello and we can help you with a bus voucher.
SOCIAL WORKER (CONT'D): So, just come to this desk when you need the voucher.
CHRIS: And, if I want to apply for a job somewhere, can you help me with that?
SOCIAL WORKER: If you know how to cook, we might have a space for you in our mobile kitchen. But I'll have to talk to my supervisor about it in the morning.
CHRIS: Alright then. Thank you. Oh, one last thing. Do you have a bed for me?
SOCIAL WORKER: (handing him a form) Sure. Just fill this in and I'll get you all set up.
SOCIAL WORKER: You leaving us so soon? I know them DMV lines are long...
BULL #2: Lay down on your stomach, spread eagle!
BULL #2 (CONT'D): Let me see your face.
BULL #2 (CONT'D): I never, ever, ever forget a face. If I see yours again, I won't arrest you. I'll kill you. This is the god-damned railroad. And we will do whatever we have to, to keep you freeloaders from violating our liability.
BULL #2 (CONT'D): If one of you people gets hurt on our train, we are liable. Do you understand that?
CHRIS: (despite the violent irony) I'm sorry, sir.
BULL #2: You have I.D.?
CHRIS: No, sir.
BULL #2: Of course you don't.
BULL #2: (to Chris over his shoulder) Last time, my friend.
CHRIS: Thanks very much.
BILLIE (O.S.): (screaming, angry) I'm not talking about this anymore!
WALT (O.S.): Don't walk away from me WOMAN!
BILLIE (O.S.): Fuck you!   I hate you!
WALT (CONT'D): (raging) I'll just cancel Christmas then!
BILLIE: Who do you think you are?   God?
WALT: Yes.   I'm God!
WALT (O.S.) (CONT'D): Where do you kids think you're going?
BILLIE (O.S.): (not in desperation so much as a demand for their witness) Kids, get back here!
CARINE (V.O.): In the nine months since Chris' disappearance, my parents went through enormous changes. Guilt was giving way to pain. And pain seemed to bring them closer. My father had humbled dramatically. And what had always been a sort of curt arrogance, the kind of man who actually thought he could cancel Christmas, had given way to the vulnerability of a father's heart. Even their faces had changed. It made me sad that I couldn't share with Chris the new closeness I felt toward our parents.
CARINE: I close my eyes at night sometimes and imagine where Chris might be.
CARINE: Was there beauty around him?   Was he hurt? Was he alone?
CARINE: Was he having the great adventure that he wanted?
CARINE: Could he feel the changes here at home? By some kind of supernatural osmosis? Chris once wrote to me from college saying he wanted to talk to me about all the problems he had with mom and dad.
CARINE: He said I was the only person in the world who could've possibly understood what he had to say.
CARINE: In those silent moments, with my eyes closed trying to picture where Chris might be at that very moment, probably climbing some scary mountain, I want to reach into that picture and bring him back to see what mom and dad, what our family might become.
CARINE: But instead when I open my eyes, what I see is my mother, sitting at the dining room table, sifting through photo albums and pictures of Chris. It's all she can do to examine the snapshots. And, though she breaks down from time to time, she studies them with a sort of hungry intensity - like looking at food you can't eat, or into a window at a family around a table that you were once a part of and can be no more.
CARINE (V.O.)   (CONT'D): She convinces herself it's   Chris; that it's her son, whenever she   passes a stray. And I fear for the    mother in her...
CARINE: Instincts that seem to sense the threat of a loss so huge and irreparable that the mind balks at taking its measure - I begin to wonder if I do understand what Chris is saying any longer. But I catch myself in doubt and remember that these are not the parents he grew up with. That in the forced reflection that comes with loss, indeed everything Chris is saying, has to be said. And I trust for him that everything he is doing has to be done. This is our life.
TRUCKER: I don't know where to drop you. Bullhead's kinda haphazard - there's no "center." You sure you don't want to be in Laughlin? It's casinos versus chiropractors.
CHRIS: Yeah, no.   This is good.   Right here.
TRUCKER: Alright then. Chiropractors it is.
LORI: Chris, you gotta go faster.   We've got a line out the door.
CHRIS: (a bit oblivious) Okay.
LORI: (extending patience) Chris, I don't mean to be on you about everything. You're doing a great job.
LORI (CONT'D): I want to keep you on. And we all want to help you get to Alaska, but you've got to start wearing socks.
CHRIS: Right, right. I forgot.
LORI: And please.   Hurry.   We're ten deep.
CHRIS: Okay.
CHRIS: How much do I have in the account now?
TELLER: It looks like...let me see. Including this latest deposit...One thousand, two hundred and fifty two dollars and...twenty-two cents.
CHRIS: What's the interest on twenty-two cents?
CHRIS: Lori, I'm punching out.
LORI: Okay.   Just put it in the drop.
CHRIS: No, I mean I'm punching out for good.
LORI: (happy for him) We've made our quota, have we?
CHRIS: Yeah. Also, I've got to do some things before I head north.
LORI: Alright Chris. Well, we've enjoyed knowing you. I won't be able to get that last check to you right away though.
CHRIS: That's okay.    I'll let you know where to send it.
LORI: Alright then Chris.    Bye-bye now.
CHRIS: Bye-bye.
JAN: Sunni!    Come here boy.
CHRIS: Surprise!
JAN: (overjoyed) Alex!
JAN: You have to tell us everything.
JAN (CONT'D): I think you've made yourself a friend.
CHRIS: (blushing) She's only a teenager.
JAN: Good luck.
RAINEY: How long can you stay with us?
CHRIS: Well, I'm waiting on a check from my last job to come into Salton City the day after Christmas. I've got to start thinking about getting ready for Alaska. When the sun gets a little lower tonight, I'm going to start a calisthenics routine. I think after the check comes in, I'll try to find some mountains I can climb everyday till spring comes. I gotta see how far the money's gonna go.
CHRIS (CONT'D): I'm going to have to pick up a lot of supplies before spring. So, I might take another job or I might be okay.
RAINEY: Well, you know, we'll give you a little something for every day you work the booth.
CHRIS: I'm not taking any money from you, Rainey.   It's been a real great twist meeting you two. You look like you're doing good.
RAINEY: We are, and you were a big part of that, coming along when you did. Yep, things are good. (gives a little giggle) Man, I used to think Tantric sex was just a bunch of reading. Speaking of which, don't you think you ought to introduce yourself to Joni Mitchell over there?
TRACY: Hi.
CHRIS: Hi.
TRACY: You selling books?
CHRIS: I am.   We are.
TRACY: I read a lot.
CHRIS: Do you?
TRACY: Yeah.
CHRIS: That's good.    I heard you play your song last night.
TRACY: (embarrassed) I'm terrible.
CHRIS: You are not terrible.
TRACY: I'm not?
CHRIS: No.   You sing sweet.
TRACY: Thank you. I was going to go watch the kids play in the mud. Do you want to go?
RAINEY: Go on.   I'll watch the store.
CHRIS: I'm sorry.   This is Rainey.   And I'm Chris.
RAINEY: Hi. Rainey. And this is Alex. ("Don't lie to her.")
TRACY: I'm Tracy.
JAN: I wasn't much older than Tracy when I got pregnant. And I thought my husband and I were going to invent peace on earth and stay together forever. But it didn't work out that way. He left. History. Now ancient history. And that was the end of that. So, I raised Reno by myself - that's my son. Then I met Rainey. And that was really good for a while. But Reno was already a teenager and was becoming a man in his own way. And then, I don't know. He kinda followed in his father's footsteps - out the door and gone. And I really don't know where he is. I haven't heard from him in two years.
CHRIS: I hope I get to meet him sometime.
JAN: Do your folks know where you are?
TRACY: Soup's on. Oh, I'm sorry.   Are you guys getting heavy?
JAN: No, sweetheart. Just hungry. You've been doing a fantastic job over there. (to Chris) Shall we eat?
CHRIS: Yeah.
RAINEY: I really ought to get myself doing that.
CHRIS: You should Rainey. Makes that Tantric stuff go even better.
RAINEY: How the hell would you know? That poor girl over there is about ready to vault onto a fence post. And here you are, the monk of Jack LaLane.
RAINEY (CONT'D): I guess Jan filled you in. About Reno and everything. Children can be harsh judges when it comes to their parents. They don't grant clemency easily. I think Reno tended to see things in black and white. I just hope he lives long enough to forgive her.
RAINEY (CONT'D): But painful as it is, you turned a light on in her and I'm grateful.
CHRIS: Me too.
RAINEY: For what?
RAINEY (CONT'D): Do your folks know where you are?
CHRIS: No.
RAINEY: Don't you think they ought to?
CHRIS: They should. But I can't. Not yet, anyway. I got a sister though, Carine. She's the most beautiful girl in the world. But, it's all got to stay behind me until I get where I'm going.
RAINEY: Alaska?
CHRIS: Yeah, Rainey. Alaska.
CHRIS: Hello?    Merry Christmas?
TRACY (O.C.): Come in here.
TRACY (CONT'D): Guess what.
CHRIS: (deer in headlights) What?
TRACY: My parents went into town.
CHRIS: No!
TRACY: Yes, they did. They went to call my grandma for Christmas.
CHRIS: No, I mean, no, we can't do that.
TRACY: Why not?
CHRIS: How old are you?
TRACY: Eighteen.
TRACY (CONT'D): Seventeen.
CHRIS: What year were you born?
CHRIS (CONT'D): You want to do something together?
CHRIS: You can always get in touch with me by sending mail here. I don't know when I'll get it, but I'll get it.
TRACY: (crying) Okay.
CHRIS: You're pretty magic.
TRACY: I am?
RAINEY: You take care of yourself, kiddo.
CHRIS: You too, Rainey. Thanks for everything.
CHRIS (CONT'D): New Year's resolution?
JAN: (sweetly) Just get your pack out of the back and get out of here. I can't take a hug.
CARINE (V.O.): In high school, Chris became captain of the cross-country track team. They called themselves the Road Warriors.
CARINE: He'd take them on what he loved to refer to as "epic" runs. The whole point was to run until they were completely lost and so exhausted that they were on the verge of puking. Then they'd slow down a little, somehow he'd find their bearings, and lead them home again at full speed. This was my brothers idea of fun.
CARINE (V.O.): A year and a half into Chris' disappearance, each day that goes by now feels like two. Dad calls it "suspended animation." I kept telling myself that he had to get lost to prove his independence to himself. But this was no day run for the Road Warriors and after so much time, I could no longer keep out the haunting thoughts.
CARINE (V.O.): In many ways, my life and even my parents had begun to move in new directions. I'd fallen in love. And mom and dad had even ventured out on a brief vacation. But, when a search of tax records uncovered Chris' contribution to OXFAM, the weight of his disappearance just seemed to lie down on us full length.
CHRIS: (no high-pitched pet voice) Hey boy. You are a handsome fellow. (over shoulder to the girl) Beautiful dog.
THE GIRL: Thank you.
CHRIS: Go on, boy.    Go on.
RON: Where's your camp?
CHRIS: (pointing) Out past Oh-My-God Hot Springs.
RON: I've lived in and around here six years now and I've never heard of any place that goes by that name.
RON (CONT'D): Show me how to get there.
RON (CONT'D): Ron Franz.
CHRIS: Alex.
RON: Alex.    Where are you from Alex?
CHRIS: West Virginia.
RON: Okay, Alex from West Virginia. I like a fellow who doesn't raise the pitch of his voice when he talks to animals...shows he doesn't condescend.
CHRIS: You go left here.
RON: You live here?
CHRIS: No, we keep going. I'm further up. Another half-mile or so, out on the Bajada.
RON: Well, this is somethin' out here. Don't you worry about those dope smokers and nudists down below there?
CHRIS: No, they keep to themselves pretty much and so do I.
CHRIS: Don't have one anymore.
RON: That's a shame.
CHRIS: Hey, Mr. Franz. I want to show you something.
RON: This is getting a little steep.     And a little high for me kid.
CHRIS: Alright.   But look out there. Even from half way out, it's quite a sight isn't it?
CHRIS (CONT'D): From the top you can see all the way to the Salton Sea too.
RON: You can see the Salton Sea from up there?
CHRIS: Yes, sir.
RON: (starting his way down the hill) My goodness.
CHRIS: You don't want to go up?
RON: Nope.   I don't do these kind of things.
RON (CONT'D): How about you and me take a drive? About fifty miles or so up highway, I know a place that's got a view, great food, and requires no climbing. How's that sound?
CHRIS: Yeah, sure. It'll take me a couple of minutes to clean up.
RON: Fair enough.
CHRIS: How old are you, Mr. Franz?
RON: Seventy-nine years old.
CHRIS: Seventy-nine...see, all due respect, but the real difference between people is the quality of their soul and not on how long they've trudged around like a dip-shit.
CHRIS (CONT'D): But it's true.
RON: It is.   No question about that.
CHRIS: The government's the same as my parents. They don't respect anybody. Regulation. Regulation. Regulation. WE can't do this. But THEY can do that. I mean, the hypocrisy of the whole...culture.   Makes me crazy. My father was having children with two women at the same time, and then has the gall to think that he can be of some guidance to me? Make judgments on me? My mother, of course, goes along with all of it. Keeps the secret, which of course, makes my whole life a fiction. Everything I thought was, wasn't. They're such fools! Fucking idiots!
RON: Alex, please don't lump me in amongst your judges. And your tyrants. But I'd prefer to not hear that kind of language.
CHRIS: (realizing his slip) Sorry. I don't usually use that kind of language either. I just get so angry thinking about it.
RON: You got a lot of passion, young man.
CHRIS: Awww, that was a great time Mr. Franz. Thank you.
RON: Look here. If Charles Manson and his buddies don't kill me on my way out of here, I'd like to cook you up a home cooked meal tomorrow night. If I come out here about, say, four o'clock tomorrow, how would that be?
CHRIS: That would be swell.
RON: Good, good. I'm no gourmet but I know where the spices are. Good night, kid.
CHRIS: Good night Mr. Franz.
RON: Did you find everything you need?
CHRIS: (breaking his gaze from the photographs) Yeah. I hope I don't wreck your machine. There's a lot of grime in that stuff.
RON: Well, that's what it's for.   How do these steaks look?
CHRIS: Great.
RON: Well, sit down.
RON (CONT'D): What do you drink?
CHRIS: You got a White Russian?
RON: Nope.
CHRIS: Beer?
RON: Nope. Don't have any alcohol. I had to quit all that. How about a guava juice?
CHRIS: I'll take a guava juice, that sounds good.
RON: Yeah, I had a little spell with the bottle, you could say.
RON/CHRIS: Cheers.
RON: I spent most of my life in the army. On New Year's Eve 1957, I was stationed over in Okinawa. My wife and son were here in the States, just driving down the road when a fellow who'd had too much to drink plowed right into them. Killed them both. Anyway, you might think that the last thing in the world I'd do, is go to the whiskey, but at the time, it felt like the only thing I could do. And I did it hard. But pretty soon, I figured I wasn't doing my wife and son any good, mourning them with a bottle. So, I pulled myself together and quit drinking, cold turkey. And then...
RON (CONT'D): (brightening) You see all these kids over here?
CHRIS: Yeah, I was gonna ask you.
RON: Yeah, that's... (pointing at each with his finger) Fuki, Kenjiro, Yoshiko, Keiko, Masaro, Junichi, Kimpei, Nayoko...
RON (CONT'D): (pridefully shows Chris the picture) And this is Akira. Just finished medical school.
RON (CONT'D): Yeah, I unofficially adopted all of them. It did my heart some good but I guess really it was just writing a few letters and sending some money. Anyway, it was important to me. I get a letter from each of them from time to time. You know. So, since all that, this is pretty much me. (indicating his small reclusive abode)
CHRIS: Do you ever travel, Mr. Franz?
RON: No. I can't seem to get too far from my leather. I'll show you after you finish eating. I do a lot of leather engraving. I got a little workshop in the garage. Between that and my pension, I do pretty well. But every time I think I might take a trip somewhere, I get too far behind on orders and such to consider it.
CHRIS: (having wolfed down the steak) Well, I'm finished eating. I'd love to see your workshop.
RON: Would ya?
RON (CONT'D): (standing) Alright then.
RON (O.S): How about some fishing?
RON (CONT'D): (referring to the Sea) That thing's twice as salty as the ocean. Did you know that?
CHRIS: Anything alive in it?
RON: What's the N stand for?
CHRIS: ...North.
RON: Alaska?
RON (CONT'D): Son, what the hell you running from?
CHRIS: (yells down from above) I could ask you the same question. Except I already know the answer.
RON: You do, do you?
CHRIS: I do, Mr. Franz. You've got to get back out in the world. Get out of that lonely house of yours, that little workshop, and go live on the road.
CHRIS (CONT'D): Really. You're going to live a long time, Ron. You should make a radical change in your lifestyle. The core of man's spirit comes with new experiences. And there you are, stubborn old man, sitting on your butt.
RON: Sittin' on my butt, huh?
RON (CONT'D): I'll show you sittin' on my butt.
RON (CONT'D): (mumbling) "Stubborn old man."
CHRIS: Come on, old man! Come on!
RON: (mumbling) Ya little pinhead.
RON (CONT'D): Ya little pinhead.
CHRIS: You alright?
RON: I'm going to miss you when you go.
CHRIS: I'll miss you too, Ron. But you're wrong if you think the joy of life comes principally from human relationships. God's placed it all around us. It's in everything. In anything we can experience. People just have to change the way they think about those things. You ought to put a little camper on the back of your pick-up and go take a look at some of the great work god's done out here in the American west.
RON: Alex...You're probably right.   And I'm going to take stock of that.
RON (CONT'D): No, I am.
RON (CONT'D): (almost to himself) I am.
RON (CONT'D): But I'll tell you something. The bits and pieces I've put together, you know, what you've told me about your family. Your mother and dad. And I know you got your problems with the church too, but there's some kind of bigger thing that we can all appreciate. And it sounds like you don't mind calling it God. But when you forgive, you love. And when you love...God's light shines on you.
CHRIS: Holy Shit!
RON: I told you about that language.
RON (CONT'D): I told you so! I told you so!
CHRIS: What are you doing up?     It's three-thirty in the morning.
RON: Heard you get up off the couch half an hour ago, and had a funny feeling you might not be here for our breakfast.
RON (CONT'D): I'm going to drive you a hundred miles to somewhere where you can pick up a train, a plane, or hitch a ride without getting stuck on this desert. I'd take you all the way to Alaska if I didn't have to get to an eight o'clock mass.
CHRIS: Ron, you don't have to do that.
RON: I want to do it.     Get you started on this thing of yours.
CHRIS: On my Great -
RON: (interrupting) I know. On your "Great Alaskan Adventure."
RON (CONT'D): There's a machete, an arctic parka, collapsible fishing pole, and a few odds and ends I threw in there for you.
CHRIS: Ron...
RON: Oh, just take it.
RON (CONT'D): I'll wait for you in the truck.
RON: Well my friend.
CHRIS: Yep.
RON: I had an idea. You know my mother was an only child. So was my father. And I was their only child. Now, with my own boy gone, I'm the end of the line. When I'm gone, my family will be finished. What do you say, you let me adopt you. I could be, say, your grandfather.
CHRIS: How about we talk about this when I get back from Alaska, Ron. Would that be alright?
CHRIS (CONT'D): Alright, Ron. We'll talk about it then.
RON: (trying to mask. The blinking, moist eyes again) Yep.   We can do that, yep.
CHRIS: Thanks, Ron.
CARINE (V.O.): About a month short of the second anniversary of Chris' disappearance, I had gotten engaged to my boyfriend Jerry Ray and was moving in with him...
CARINE (V.O.) (CONT'D): ...when I stumbled upon the book Chris had given me on his graduation day. For some reason, it was the last line of the poem he read that really stuck out.
CHRIS: ...and I will tell about it.
CARINE (V.O.): I asked Chris who had written the poem.
CARINE (V.O.) (CONT'D): Who wrote that?
CHRIS: Well, it could've been either one of us. Couldn't it?
CARINE (V.O.): What would he tell about now?   What did his voice sound like now?
CARINE (V.O.) (CONT'D): I realized that the words to my thoughts were of less and less meaning. Chris was writing his story and it had to be Chris who would tell it.
CHRIS (O.C.): (in a far away, tunnel-like sound) Mom, help me.
WALT: What is it?
BILLIE: I wasn't dreaming! I didn't imagine it! I heard his voice, Walt. I heard Chris.
CHRIS: ...the road. Escaped from Atlanta. Thou shalt not return `cause the "west is the best." And now after two rambling years, comes the final and greatest adventure.
CHRIS (CONT'D): The climactic battle to kill the false being within and victoriously conclude the spiritual revolution.
CHRIS (CONT'D): Ten days and nights of freight trains and hitchhiking, bringing him to the great white north.
CHRIS (CONT'D): No longer to be poisoned by civilization, he flees, and walks alone upon the land to become lost in the wild.
CHRIS: Shit!
CHRIS (V.O.)(O.C.): Here she stopped and, closing her eyes, took a deep breath of the flower-scented air of the broad expanse around her. It was dearer to her than her kin, better than a lover, wiser than a book.
CHRIS (V.O.)(O.C.): For a moment, she re-discovered the purpose of her life. She was here in earth to grasp the meaning of its wild enchantment and call each thing by its right name.
CHRIS (CONT'D): (echoing) By its right name. By its right name.
CHRIS: Beautiful blueberries - Vaccinium uliginosum. Eskimo potato - Hedysarum alpinum...etc.
CHRIS (V.O.): Set small signal fire today - watched it die tonight.
CHRIS (V.0)(O.C.): And that an unshared happiness is not happiness...
CHRIS (O.C.) (CONT'D): (with a weak voice) Call everything by its right name.
CHRIS (V.O.): What if you saw me running into your arms...
CHRIS (V.O.) (CONT'D): Would you see then...
CHRIS (V.O.) (CONT'D): ...what I see now?
