ROMEO: Okay, all bets are down!
TIN CUP: Don't you shitheels ever get bored?
TIN CUP: ... 'Cuz I got a riddle.
TIN CUP: Takes about two ounces of brains to figure it out. Anyone think they got a brain with two ounces of brains in it?
TIN CUP: For Chrissakes, boys! A little self-confidence from the players' gallery. We ain't talking long division.
EARL: (timidly) How much we gotta lose?
TIN CUP: You want to liven things up, Earl? That's a hell of an idea. Say everyone puts in twenty bucks and the pot goes to whoever solves the riddle.
DEWEY: You going to get the riddle, Tin Cup?
TIN CUP: (patiently) Dewey. I'm the one asking the riddle. I already know the answer. I don't getta guess. Although... We could say if I get to five hundred bounces and no one gets the riddle, I get the pot. And I know what you're thinking. It's an impossible riddle. Well, It's not. It's an easy riddle. And if somehow by the grace of fluke luck I win, and you all don't agree it was an easy riddle, hell, I'll refund your money.
EARL, CLINT & ALL: I'm in... We're in... Count us in... etc...
TIN CUP: Okay, a man's driving down the road with his son and they get in a crash. Two ambulances come and take the man and his son to different hospitals. Son goes into the operating room, the doctor looks at him and says, 'I can't operate on this boy. He's my son.' How's that possible? (beat) The clock's ticking boys...
EARL: Father didn't sneak back in, right? He's still at the other hospital?
TIN CUP: It ain't 'Star Trek,' Earl.   No one beamed him aboard.
EARL: Well... if the father married the son's daughter --
TIN CUP: It's a family riddle, Earl.   Think clean thoughts.
CLINT: Give us a little hint.
MOLLY (O.S.): The doctor's a woman.
MOLLY: The doctor is the son's mother. Feminists pose the riddle to reveal how deeply our sexual stereotypes run. (directly to Tin Cup) I take it you're a feminist?
TIN CUP: Ma'am, I've been called a lot of things -- but no one's ever saddled me with that one.
MOLLY: You might try being saddled sometime -- the smell of leather, the sting of a whip...
TIN CUP: (slightly taken aback) I'm just a humble golf pro...
MOLLY: You're Roy McAvoy the golf pro? I pictured something... different. I have a seven o'clock lesson.
TIN CUP: I thought I had a Doctor Griswold
TIN CUP: The first thing you gotta learn about this game, Doc, is it ain't about hitting a little white ball into some yonder hole. It's about inner demons and self-doubt and human frailty and overcoming all that crap. So... what kinda doctor'd you say you were?
MOLLY: I'm a psychologist -- in layman's terms call me a neo-Jungian, post- modern Freudian, holistic secularist.
TIN CUP: Damn.
MOLLY: Inner demons and human frailty are my life's work. I used to practice in El Paso but I've moved here now...
TIN CUP: What're those?
MOLLY: I ordered these from the Golf Channel.
TIN CUP: That stuff's a waste of money.
MOLLY: I'm sure there are excesses and repetitions here, but I believe in the gathering of knowledge and I figured, well, there must be some truths about the golf swing illustrated by these devices -- and that you'd help me sort through it.
MOLLY: I have dozens of golf videotapes, too... And a golf watch.
TIN CUP: (irritated, impatient) Take it off. All of it. Now! You're a smart woman, for Chrissakes -- don't you know the work of charlatans when you see it?
MOLLY: No. I can always tell when someone is lying to himself, but I'm quite susceptible and frequently wrong when that person lies to me. (pointing to the pile of devices) That stuff cost me over 200 dollars --
TIN CUP: Then it's 200 dollars of shit...
TIN CUP: Go ahead.   Take a swing.
TIN CUP: Well, you talk like a golfer --
MOLLY: Shit.
TIN CUP: 'Fuck...' 'Shit...' these are highly technical golf terms and you're using them on your first lesson -- this is promising.
MOLLY: Awright, wise ass, show me.
TIN CUP: Something like that.
MOLLY: Impressive. Y'know, I tend to process things verbally. Can you break down into words how you did that?
TIN CUP: 'What is the golf swing?' -- by Roy McAvoy. (beat) The golf swing is a poem.
TIN CUP (CONT'D): Sometimes a love sonnet and sometimes a Homerian epic -- it is organic and of a piece, yet it breaks down into elegant stanzas and quatrains. The critical opening phrase of this song is the grip, in which the hands unite to form a single unit by the simple overlap of the smallest finger... (displays grip) ... held lightly, a conductor's
MOLLY: Jeez Louise...
TIN CUP: There is only one other acceptable theory of how to hit a golf ball.
MOLLY: I'm afraid to ask. What's the other theory?
TIN CUP: Grip it and rip it.
MOLLY: While I appreciate your poetic sensibility, Mr. McAvoy --
TIN CUP: Call me Roy, Molly...
MOLLY: Call me Dr. Griswold...
MOLLY (CONT'D): Roy... but at this point I think I'm more of the 'grip it and rip it' school. Hand me the driver.
TIN CUP: Waggle it, Doc, don't forget to waggle. (as she stares at him) Waggle... the club head... (shows her) ... it's a little relaxing ritual...
MOLLY: What Big Dog?
TIN CUP: The driver, the number one wood --
MOLLY: It's metal.
TIN CUP: Yeah, woods are metal -- don't worry about it -- and the driver's known as the Big Dog and I'm just saying to turn him loose, let 'er rip, let the Big Dog eat!
MOLLY: Oh.
MOLLY: This is, without a doubt, the stupidest, silliest, most idiotic grotesquery masquerading as a game that has ever been invented.
TIN CUP: (cheerfully) Yes, ma'am, that's why I love it. (beat) And if you hit one good shot -- if that tuning fork rings in your loin -- you can't wait to get back.
MOLLY: I think the Big Dog ate something.
TIN CUP: Did the tuning fork ring in your loin?
MOLLY: I wouldn't go that far.
TIN CUP: Always quit on a good shot. We'll call that lesson number one...
MOLLY: If you're such a legendary striker of the golf ball as everyone says, then why are you, at your age, out here in the middle of nowhere operating a barely solvent establishment, ducking the I.R.S., collecting a few pathetic dollars to buy your next sixpack -- when you're capable of so much more?
TIN CUP: Perhaps I'm chocked full of inner demons?
MOLLY: No, you're chocked full of bullshit -- (cheerily) Same time next week?
TIN CUP: What did you mean I should try 'being saddled' sometime?
TIN CUP (CONT'D): Were you being literal or was that some kind of Freudian type deal? Molly? Doctor? (beat) What kind of saddle?
JOSE: I got it!   Esta bien!    The flag is up!
TIN CUP: A class act there, boys -- probably the first actual `lady type' female ever seen on these premises --
ROMEO: Shut up, boss -- we got the Corpus Christi dog track on the dish --
EARL: This is yer dead mortal cinch lock bet with Do-reen.
TIN CUP: Free money, boys, what does Doreen know about the fine art of Greyhound breeding?
ROMEO: All she knows is she likes the three dog 'cause his name is Pride of Odessa 'cause she's from Odessa.
TIN CUP: Get ready for Oddessa-lation, boys. How deep we in?
ROMEO: You gave her twenty to one --
EARL: It's only fifteen to one on the toteboard --
TIN CUP: Yeah, but I got every other dog in the race. I'm just getting even with Doreen -- I'm not trying to clean her clock.
CLINT: So how much you stand to lose?
ROMEO: Twelve thousand.
TIN CUP: Hundred.
ROMEO: Thousand.
TIN CUP: (panicky) Hundred.
ROMEO: You said to shoot the wad.
TIN CUP: I said get even, Pod. I didn't say shoot the wad. We better see that three dog rolling on his ass.
EARL: Except... if he breaks slow, he won't get creamed...
REGULARS: Three dog's dying, T.C.... easy money... (etc.)
REGULARS: Uh-oh.
ROMEO: So, Roy, you were saying you felt a little flutter for this doctor lady?
TIN CUP: Yes, I was saying that... just before I was interrupted by... bankruptcy -- a development that the 'Doctor Lady,' as you call her,
ROMEO: We lost everything, boss! We owe Doreen twelve thousand bucks!
TIN CUP: I think I been dating too many big-haired blondes.
ROMEO: Them big-haired blondes are a lot smarter 'n us... (beat) ... how we gonna pay her?
TIN CUP: You underestimate me, Romes.
ROMEO: It's a bad habit I picked up from knowing you so long.
TURK (THE BOUNCER): Hey, Tin Cup, Doreen's looking for ya --
TIN CUP: I'm sure she is...
WAITRESS/STRIPPER: Hey, Tin Cup, haven't seen ya in three days!
TIN CUP: Busy man, Courtenay, busy man --
NAKED DANCER: Tin Cup!     Hi, sweetie!
TIN CUP: Hiya, honey -- lookin' sweet...
VOICE (O.S.): That better be you, Roy.
TIN CUP: Doreen...
ROMEO: You're looking particularly lovely this evening -- This is nicer than the leopard suit --
DOREEN: Cut the horseshit, guys. So... the one and two dogs always run wide and the three dog always breaks slow, so I figure there's gonna be a big ol' pile of fur at the turn and the three dog's gonna tiptoe around it and walk on home... I was right. (smiles) You owe me twelve thousand dollars.
ROMEO: We going to pay you.
DOREEN: I know you're going to pay me.
DOREEN (CONT'D): (admiring her own outfit) Y'know I finally got rid of the leopard suit thing -- it was so retro, y'know... it's not easy being a post-modern stripper... (beat) So... twelve big ones?
TIN CUP: There. With equity and inventory it's worth twelve grand... more or less.
DOREEN: This is how you think you can settle up? By deeding me your driving range?
TIN CUP: Only on condition you don't sell right away, and me'n Romeo keep our jobs.
DOREEN: What in the world would I want with your stupid driving range?
TIN CUP: Equity, inventory, cash flow... not to mention an enhanced stature in the community, and prepaid membership in the Salome Chamber of Commerce.
DOREEN: What are your labor costs? (off no response from Tin Cup) Payroll, Roy. What do you pay
TIN CUP: Let's see... the tractor kid gets five bucks an hour. Romeo, he gets ten cash --
DOREEN: What do you pay yourself?
TIN CUP: Myself?
DOREEN: To hit golf balls all day... when you're not breaking for beers or corn dogs or to gather the guys and lay bets on which crow flies off the fence next.
TIN CUP: You're referring to my managerial salary?
DOREEN: I'm referring to every nickel you snatch out of the till and every bag of beer nuts you lift from the rack, is what I'm referring to. (beat) I'll say it's worth ten and you still owe me two.
ROMEO (V.O.): (with horror, inside
TIN CUP: I still got two grand to pay off. And I can't see my new salary of seven bucks an hour plus lessons getting it done.
ROMEO: But your clubs are your livelihood.
TIN CUP: Well the hood ain't too lively at the moment.
TIN CUP: Whoever it is, tell 'em I'm in Houston on business.
ROMEO: David Simms!   What you doing in town?
SIMMS: Romeo! It's been awhile.    Is Tin Cup around?
ROMEO: He's on business in Houston... You supposed to be out playin' on the golf tour.
SIMMS: (unfazed) Well, you tell him I'm in town for my big charity best-ball tournament, and I got a spot for him when he comes back from... whatever.
ROMEO: You got a spot for Tin Cup?   I thought you hated him.
SIMMS: Romeo! You wound me. I'm fond of the guy, going way back to our days at University of Houston, when we won all those titles together.
ROMEO: He says he carried you on his back.
SIMMS: I didn't have much craft back then -- just a little native ability. Roy's a great ball- striker....
ROMEO: Why you here?
SIMMS: I want to win my own tournament, and he can help me if we can manage to behave like grownups together. Tell him that.
TIN CUP: What's the catch?
SIMMS: There is no catch. I put together a tournament with an elite field and a half-million dollar purse, and I'm tired of seeing all the money head out of town.
TIN CUP: Then make more birdies.
TIN CUP: You ain't that friendly a guy...
SIMMS: We're playing Cottonwood where you once shot fifty-nine, where you can shoot sixty-five in your sleep 'cuz you know every bump on every fairway, every subtle break on every green --
TIN CUP: (warily) You an' me --
SIMMS: Me an' you -- like the old days.
TIN CUP: ... Well, put 'er there, partner! These two homeboys are gonna show the world what golf in West Texas is all about!
SIMMS: No, Roy. I didn't mean I want you to play with me. I just want you to caddie for me, read my putts, club me, that kinda stuff.
ROMEO: You son of a bitch.
TIN CUP: (to himself, blankly) Caddie? Me?
SIMMS: I can't bring a guy in off the street to play in my tournament. It's a big-time event, corporate sponsors, thirty dollar tickets... I got a network to cover --
ROMEO: (interrupting,
SIMMS: I'll pay you a hundred for the loop, five percent of any earnings --
ROMEO: Get the hell outta here! Take your goddamn color coordinated corporate sponsored soul and get outta here.
SIMMS: Okay, okay, just thought I'd offer you some work...
TIN CUP: Simms!
SIMMS: (stops) What?
TIN CUP: I'll take the job.
ROMEO: We'll take the job.
TIN CUP (O.S.): That man stands for everything I hate in life.
ROMEO (O.S.): You mean like... success?
SIMMS: Like I told you, it was more'n you had in the bag.
STADLER: Yeah, well... I had to go for it after your caddy said he could get home from here.
TIN CUP: I could.
SIMMS: I gotta hand it to you, Roy. For fifteen holes you've seemed to grasp the concept here: I'm trying to win and your job is to help me.
SIMMS: Give me the seven iron.   I'm laying up.
TIN CUP: You can make that shot.
SIMMS: The smart play's to lay up.
TIN CUP: These fans didn't pay thirty bucks to watch a tour star lay up on a short par five.
SIMMS: I'm sitting on a two shot lead with three to go, and my partner's in his pocket. Suddenly, par's a good number. Gimme the seven Iron.
TIN CUP: No way. You're going for the green. These fans paid good money to see golf shots they can't hit, not golf shots they feel shitty about themselves for having to hit.
TIN CUP: Thirteen years on tour and you're still a pussy. Hit the fucking one iron, Dave.
SIMMS: Thirteen years in a driving range and you still think this game's about your testosterone count.
TIN CUP: Two-fifteen to carry, and the tour star's laying up.
SIMMS: But if you're gonna editorialize, do it on the other side of the ropes. I got no qualms about firing your ass right here, right now.
TIN CUP: Fire me?   Hell, I should fire you. McCORD (to Mickelson) I know you could knock it on from here, I'm just saying that caddie's been drinking muddy water if he thinks he can.
ROMEO: He can.
STADLER: Hey, Dave!   We in a hurry?
STADLER: 'Cause I just bet McCord and Mickelson that your caddie could knock it on from here.
SIMMS: We're trying to win a tournament, pardo.
STADLER: I know.    But I'm getting five to one.
GOLF CHANNEL ANNOUNCER: From two-fifty from a snarly lie, over water, on national TV, with no warmup... I'd give ten to one to a tour pro.
STADLER: Here ya go.   Take a hack at it.
SIMMS: Balls versus brains, Roy. You hit that shot, just keep walking, 'cuz your ass is fired. STADLER, McCORD, MICKELSON Come on, Roy!    Your fans are calling!
TIN CUP: How you gonna fire me in front of all these people? Especially when I knock it on the green.
KOSTIS: (on mike) It seems like the Charity Tournament is taking a little
SIMMS: Take a hike, Roy -- the loop's over.
TIN CUP: You can't fire me. How can you fire me? I just knocked it stiff from two fifty. Gimme that bag.
SIMMS: Security!
TIN CUP: What about my money?
SIMMS: You just hit the shot that took you out of the money. Welcome to life on the tour.
GEORGE MICHAELS (V.O.): And finally Sports Machine brings you a bizarre incident...
GEORGE MICHAELS (V.O.): Driving range pro, Roy `Tin Cup' McAvoy...
EARL (O.S.): Hey, Tin Cup!    You made the news!
ROMEO: (nods with neither rancor nor irony) The look comes over your face, you would bury yourself alive to prove you can handle a shovel.
TIN CUP: You know why I'd still hit that shot?
ROMEO: 'Cuz it's the only way you can beat David Simms. 'Cuz you never got over that he is on tour and you are not. 'Cuz you get that look on your face...
TIN CUP: No... (pauses, adding weight to his thoughts) I'd hit it again because that shot was a defining moment. And when a defining moment comes along you define the moment or the moment defines you. I did not shrink from the challenge. I rose to it.
ROMEO: 1981, Fort Washington Golf Club, Fresno, California, final round of the Tour Qualifying School...
TIN CUP: I was playing to win.
ROMEO: A defining moment when you tried to hit the same impossible cut
TIN CUP: Greatness courts failure, Romeo. That's why most people, in their whole lives, never ever reach for the brass ring, never know when to dig deep and try for the impossible shot...
ROMEO: You're right about that, boss, but sometimes... sometimes... par is good enough to win.
DOREEN: The DieHard/West Texas Calcutta, the Duvall County Boys Club Pro/ Scratch, Woody's Steak House One Club Scramble... what do I want with all these entry forms?
DOREEN: In exchange for what?
TIN CUP: My driving range back.
DOREEN: Roy, I'm not as dumb as my hair makes me look.
TIN CUP: They ain't all strictly minor league. One of 'em pays almost two grand!
TIN CUP: Now wait, Doreen. You gotta do the math, and you gotta look at how good I'm playing. I hit the shot of the tournament at the best-ball. They put it on national TV.
DOREEN: I saw.
TIN CUP: And what does that tell you?
TIN CUP: (shouting) And what does that tell you?
DOREEN: It tells me you took an unauthorized day off. Next time it happens, you're fired. In the meantime, I'm putting in a time clock.
TIN CUP: I'm not punching in no time
TIN CUP: Am I early?
MOLLY: Mr. McAvoy, I can appreciate that you have a fairly laid-back, relaxed lifestyle -- but I have hours to keep.
TIN CUP: A former paramour once ascribed my fluid sense of time to being born under the sign of Pisces -- something about floating through the universe --
MOLLY: You amuse me, Roy. But I'm the only woman in America born after World War II who thinks astrology is a crock of shit. (beat) Now let's see if the Big Dog'll eat.
TIN CUP: Waggle.
MOLLY: I'm waggling...
TIN CUP: Set up to the ball like I showed you last time.
TIN CUP: Quit trying to wring that club's neck, Molly. Show it a little warmth and compassion...
TIN CUP: Remember, this game's about trust and touch and letting go. So while I'm subtly enhancing your technical prospects, why don't you tell me all about your personal life...
MOLLY: It's none of your fucking business, Roy.
TIN CUP: Your boyfriend's a golfer -- that's my bet -- and he's why you're taking this game up. Hell, I probably even know him --
SIMMS (O.S.): Get your hands off her ass, Roy.
MOLLY: (to Simms) Hi, sweetie...
TIN CUP: Not him...
TIN CUP (O.S.): He's taking her to Miami for the fucking Doral! How am I supposed to compete with that?
ROMEO: Man, you are having a bad week.
TIN CUP: She must think I'm such a nothing, such a loser... a lousy driving range pro living in a Winnebago, making five bucks an hour plus lessons.
ROMEO: She don't know you live in a Winnebago.
TIN CUP: Well, she sure as hell knows I ain't taking her to no Doral for massages and mimosas all weekend. I gotta do something with my life.
TIN CUP: I gotta rise to a level worthy of the women that think I'm a joke.
ROMEO: Well... you could go out and win The Open.
TIN CUP: (pausing, as if jarred) Romeo, that idea has promise.
ROMEO: I was joking.
TIN CUP: I ain't.
TIN CUP: Well, since you're the authority, How'd you like to teach me how to be what I ain't and never will be?
ROMEO: You don't ever listen to me.
TIN CUP: This time'll be different.   I promise.
ROMEO: I don't know, man. Right now you don't even got the money to get your clubs out of hock.
TIN CUP: Yeah, well... my sticks may be in a pawn shop, but I got a rake and a hoe at the range.
BOONE: Let me get this straight -- you're going to play me for four hundred dollars with those?
TIN CUP: And I'll give ya two a side... I got the title to my car as collateral.
TIN CUP: That's cuz you think of it as transportation, Boone. Think of it as bragging rights. Think of yourself sitting around the bar crowing to your buddies about the Cadillac you won off Tin Cup McAvoy. (the real kicker) They'll forget all about the Winnebago you lost to me.
BOONE: No mullies, no gimmes, no bumping the ball --
BOONE: Nutted it.
TIN CUP: I'll be playing a Pink Lady today.
BOONE: That little pink fag ball supposed to rattle me?
TIN CUP: Not unless I knock it by you.
TIN CUP: Yep, I caught this thing way the Hell on the toe.
BOONE: Drive for show, putt for dough, big shot.
TIN CUP: Did you hear that, Romeo? Boone was being profound! He has revealed to me the essential mystery of golf! Drive for show, putt for dough... (holds out a palm) Louisville Slugger, please.
ROMEO: You got Boone shakin' already -- (studying the approach) Front left bunker's your best angle to the pin.
TIN CUP: (calling his shot) Front left bunker -- plugged lie.
BOONE: I want to see a legitimate swing. No scooping.
TIN CUP: Stand, please.     Gallery, please, stand.
TIN CUP: I'll finish.
BOONE: Get the hell off my course.
TIN CUP: Listen, swami, your job is to teach me patience and humility, not to advise me on my love life.
ROMEO: No. My job is to get your head straight so you can qualify for The Open, much less win it. To get your head straight you got to forget about the doctor lady.
TIN CUP: Not all my thinking occurs below the belt. I actually stand for a few things beside where my next romantic interlude is coming from.
ROMEO: Then you got no problem telling the doctor lady you can't teach her no more till after the Open.
TIN CUP: I mean, this is my quest!
ROMEO: Ahhh... your quest... chingaso...
TIN CUP: This is where I stand up for all the little guys everywhere who've had their fill of soulless robots like David Simms --
ROMEO: He may be a soulless robot but he's a rich, happy soulless robot with a beautiful doctor lady girlfriend who's got you by the huevos -- (beat) Besides, how is getting into the U.S. Open gonna change what she thinks about you?
TIN CUP: It'll prove to her that I'm not who she thinks I am.
ROMEO: But you are who she thinks you are! Look, I don't bet on a horse with a hard-on.
TIN CUP: Hard-on?! Hard-on?! Hard-on?! Here, touch me, feel -- (as Tin Cup grabs himself) I don't feel nothing! Here!
ROMEO: (embarrassed) Hey, hey... shit... cool it...
TIN CUP: Okay, okay... maybe I got a semi.
DOREEN: I cannot give you time off to win The Open. I don't care if it's your 'quest'... (listens) ... or your 'destiny'... (listens) ... or any of those terms you vaguely remember from your Cliff Notes... (listens) You shoulda treated me nicer when we were an item -- then maybe I wouldn't be such a nasty boss. G'bye, Roy -- I have a business to run.
TIN CUP: Man, ever since I let her dump my ass she just can't resist kicking me in it.
ROMEO: Maybe you should treat her more like a lady.
TIN CUP: After she ran off with that Dallas banker?
ROMEO: She did that after you let her dump you. It wouldn't kill you just once to tell her she's beautiful, she can dance, she's
TIN CUP: Romeo... are you sweet on Doreen?
ROMEO: No more'n you are for that doctor lady.
TIN CUP: Great, Romeo, just great... just when I need you to be my friend and coach, you go get all gooey about one of my ex-girlfriends who just happens to be our boss.
ROMEO: Anybody comes to me for help on their love life about women is already too far gone.
TIN CUP: I don't recall asking you for advice. (beat) Women are tougher to figure out than a feathered one iron from a tight lie --
ROMEO: Actually if you open the club face a hair and play it off your back foot --
TIN CUP: Shut up, Romeo... I wasn't really seeking golf tips...
ROMEO: It's all I'm good for -- but you can count on me for that, at least.
TIN CUP: How far off the back foot?
ROMEO: 'Bout three balls...
ROMEO: I'm no expert, but it seems to me that the `pursuit of a person's mythic destiny' is not the sort of thing that a person needs to get off a five dollar an hour job in order to do...
TIN CUP: I'm stuck. Buried. My life's a plugged lie in a kakuyi bunker with a tight pin position on a green with a stimp meter reading of thirteen. (beat) I need help. I need advice. I need counsel... (beat) I need a shrink.
ROMEO: You don't know no shrinks.
TIN CUP: I know one.
ROMEO: Not the doctor lady?
TIN CUP: Why not?
ROMEO: You can't ask advice about the woman you're trying to hose from the woman you're trying to hose!
TIN CUP: Hose?! Hose?! Get your mouth outta the gutter! This is a matter of the heart!
TIN CUP: I didn't do anything!
MOLLY: I know... I know... wait in there.
MOLLY: Roy... are you okay?
TIN CUP: I need therapy.
MOLLY: Obviously.
TIN CUP: What do I do? I mean... to do it ... therapy... I mean, how do I start doing... it.
MOLLY: In parlance you might understand, just kick back and let the Big Dog eat.
TIN CUP: Yeah.
MOLLY: Look, it's rather simple. Those risks that you love to take on the golf course, the risks you talk so passionately and poetically about -- you need to apply those risks to your personal life with the same passion.
TIN CUP: I should ask this woman out.
MOLLY: Yes!
TIN CUP: I should risk coming right over the top and snap-hooking it out of bounds left.
MOLLY: Yes!
TIN CUP: Risk hitting it a little thin and --
MOLLY: For Godsakes, Roy, that's enough!
TIN CUP: Right.   Sorry.
MOLLY: S'okay... (beat) Look, just walk up to this woman, wherever she is, look her in the eye with those big beautiful green eyes of yours, let down your guard and don't try to be smooth or cool or whatever -- just be honest and take the risk -- you can do it!
TIN CUP: Dr. Griswold -- I think I'm in
MOLLY: What?!
TIN CUP: From the moment I first saw you I knew I was through with bar girls and strippers and motorcycle chicks, and when you started talking I was smitten and I'm smitten more every day I think about you -- and the fact that you know I'm full of crapola only makes you more attractive to me because usually I can bullshit people but I can't bullshit you and in addition, most women I'm thinking about how to get into their pants from Day One but with you I'm just thinking about how to get into your heart --
MOLLY: My God...
TIN CUP: (optimistically, proudly) Stunned, eh? So what about dinner and we can talk about `us' and if we have a future and how to drop that horse's ass boyfriend of yours --
MOLLY: Roy, slow down --
TIN CUP: Hey! I just hit a eight degree driver off a cart path here, I'm staring eagle in the face --
MOLLY: This is a terrible mistake!
TIN CUP: I'm acting from the heart so I can't make a mistake?! Right?
TIN CUP: Would your advice have been different?
MOLLY: Session's over. You better leave.
TIN CUP: I'm gonna qualify for the U.S. Open and kick your boyfriend's ass.
MOLLY: Please leave.
TIN CUP: Whatever you think of me, you should know that your boyfriend hates old people, children, and dogs.
TIN CUP: (just before swinging) Dollar bills...
TIN CUP: Dollar bills...
TIN CUP: If she was a par three, I'd'a made a nine.
ROMEO: Stroke and distance, eh?
TIN CUP: (nods, deep in concentration) Dollar bills...
CLINT: What's he saying?
ROMEO: Dollar bills. His divots got to look like dollar bills. 'Course Moe Norman hits divots like bacon strips 'cuz he come over the top, but that's gettin' too technical for you.
CLINT: See that, boys? He's hitting dollar bills. Tightening his game.
CLINT: Uh, something us shitheels want you to know, Tin Cup, is uh, well, we been to see Doreen, and we told her we'd stage a customer's strike if she didn't give you time off to win the Open.
TIN CUP: You perverts did that for me?
JOSE: We believe in you, man.
EARL: And if you get past the local qualifier, we gonna sponsor you.
TIN CUP: Thanks, boys -- a man couldn't have better friends. Now move the hell back and shut the fuck up. You're messing up my concentration.
TIN CUP: Debt collection? Process server?
MOLLY: God, you've got a beautiful swing --
TIN CUP: -- And big, beautiful green eyes -- I'm a beautiful guy.
MOLLY: I came here to apologize.
TIN CUP: For what?
MOLLY: Well, I counseled you, you did exactly what I said, and I just... poured cold water over your effort. (quickly) I didn't get it. I'm a terrible shrink, probably... I should've never got out of real estate -- actually I should never have left Ohio for that cowboy in Armarillo -- have you ever been to Amarillo?
TIN CUP: A cowboy?
MOLLY: It's not as romantic when you're actually with one -- a wrangler, y'know -- so of course the oil man in Dallas looked great after that -- I don't know what I was thinking... That's when I went to the gulf and ended up in, well, trailer sales and then all those condos in Corpus Christi -- the bottom fell outta the market and I needed a new gig --
TIN CUP: A new gig?
MOLLY: Therapy.    I took all the classes.
TIN CUP: I got a little carried away, I guess. I shoulda just layed up, made my par, and moved on.
MOLLY: Look, I want to propose something -- as long as you understand this is professional -- we're not going out together --
TIN CUP: Tee it up.
MOLLY: I can help you with the mental aspects of the game. You've got Romeo to be your swing doctor, I can be your head doctor.
TIN CUP: But you said you were a lousy shrink?
MOLLY: Well, yeah... I'll improve.
TIN CUP: I got no money to pay for you.
MOLLY: I'll trade my services for golf lessons and help you through the qualifying. If you get into the Open, well, you're on your own.
TIN CUP: You'll be with David.
MOLLY: Yeah...
STARTER (V.O.): ... the next group... Roy McAvoy, Salome, Texas... who will be playing with...
ROMEO: How ya feelin', boss?
TIN CUP: I'm feelin' like par's a bad score, podnuh -- fifty-eight's within the realm!
ROMEO: Jesus, the doctor lady's here --
TIN CUP: Didn't I tell ya? She's gonna be your guru partner. You handle my swing mechanics and she handles my brain mechanics.
ROMEO: Long as you keep your dick out of it --
TIN CUP: Me an' the 'big guy' have an understanding. He's gonna lie low till I get in the Open -- then... then...
ROMEO: The Big Dog'll eat?
TIN CUP: The Big Dog'll hunt, that's for sure...
ROMEO: (softly) Looks like we partners, Dr. Molly
MOLLY: I just have to help him keep his head on straight --
ROMEO: If you can, you be the first.
MOLLY: He does have the occasional tendency towards self-destruction it seems.
ROMEO: It ain't occasional and it ain't no tendency -- it's a fact of life that he gonna blow sky high, it's just a matter of when and how fast can the pieces be put back together. (beat) Behind that twinkle in his eyes is nitroglycerin.
TIN CUP: Quiet in the gallery! A man's trying to do his job.
TIN CUP: (generally announcing) Got my 'A' game with me today, folks... you're in for a real treat!
MOLLY: I find him mildly attractive when he's obnoxious and arrogant like this --
TIN CUP: Dollar bills...
TIN CUP: Nutted it...
TIN CUP: Ben Hogan?   Who's he?
CLINT/EARL: You the man, Tin Cup! You the man!
ROMEO: They bugging you, boss -- I can shut 'em up?
TIN CUP: The way I'm swinging today,
ROMEO: I think two iron's safer.
TIN CUP: I said I want the Big Dog.
ROMEO: Tight par five, out of bounds left... you don't want to hit driver.
TIN CUP: I'm not going left of those trees. I'm going over those trees... with a little draw. That way I get home in two. That way I'm putting for eagle.
ROMEO: You don't need eagle to qualify! You need to get used to playing smart -- no mistakes wins the Open.
TIN CUP: Qualify? I want the course record! Now gimme the lumber!
ROMEO: You not going to listen to me? You don't care I'm trying to help? You think I'm full of shit?
TIN CUP: I think I'm gonna get penalized for slow play if you don't give me that fucking driver.
ROMEO: You a head case, boss, always were, always will be.
P.G.A. OFFICIAL: Soliciting shot selection advice is a two-stroke penalty.
MOLLY: Trust your feelings, Roy.
TIN CUP: (to Romeo) Ha!   Gimme the driver and shut up.
ROMEO: ... Go ahead.    Hit the driver.
TIN CUP: I changed my mind. Gimme the three wood.
ROMEO: You can't clear the dogleg with a three wood.
TIN CUP: Wanna bet?
TIN CUP: Guess I'm going with the safe shot, boys.
TIN CUP: Sometimes I fan that two iron. Better gimme the three.
MOLLY: Is this normal behavior for him?
EARL: The word 'normal' and him don't collide in the same sentence too often.
TIN CUP: Sometimes I catch that three a little thin...
TIN CUP: And I've hooked my four iron... (snap) ... and hit flyers with the five... (snap) ... and shanked the six... (snap) ... and skulled the eight... (snap) ... and fatted the nine... (snap) ... and chili-dipped the wedge... (snap) ... and bladed the sand wedge... (snap; then pauses to reflect contemptuously on his putter) ... and then there's Mister Three-putt...
TIN CUP: But the seven iron, I never miss the seven iron. It's the only truly safe club in my bag.
TIN CUP: You happy, Romeo?
ROMEO: No, boss, I'm tired... my life's too short to spend it watching you fall apart. I done it too many times.
TIN CUP: What's this? You're quitting? First sign of adversity, you're quitting? (as Romeo continues) Anyone want to bet me I can't par in with a seven iron? (to Molly) Doc? Take the bet?
MOLLY: Roy -- just shut up and hit the ball.
TIN CUP: An easy game, this golf...
19TH HOLE WAITRESS: Beer for everybody.
CLINT: You the man, Tin Cup!
TIN CUP: Thanks, boys, what'ya think was my best shot -- the seven iron on twelve, the seven iron on fourteen, or maybe it was the bunker shot on eighteen which, to my recollection was a -- seven iron?
EARL: You definitely the man!
TIN CUP: How'd I do, Doc?
MOLLY: (cheerfully) You failed miserably.
VOICE (O.S.): Have a bad day, Roy?
MOLLY: Hi, honey...
TIN CUP: I shot 65 -- parred the backside with a seven iron.
SIMMS: (intrigued) Why?
MOLLY: That's the question -- why?
CLINT: 'Cause he broke all his other clubs.
EARL: Snapped 'em in two -- even the putter.
SIMMS: Jesus, Roy, I'm on your side here. We go way back... I hope you get into the Open, but if you don't play under control, you'll get slaughtered. Good players shoot 82 in the Open. You can't always go for it.
TIN CUP: Swear to God, Doc, this guy is not who you think.
CLINT: It's a well-known fact that if a camera's not on him, he treats old people and children like dirt.
EARL: And dogs.
TIN CUP: Yeah, don't forget the dogs.
MOLLY: I think we should go, David.
SIMMS: I think so...
TIN CUP: You ever shoot par with a seven iron?
SIMMS: It never occurred to me to try. (to Molly) C'mon, let's go. The car's over here....
TIN CUP: I'll bet you a thousand dollars against my car that I can beat you in any game -- any game, you name it -- with a seven iron.
SIMMS: This is ridiculous.
TIN CUP: You a coward? You gonna lay up the way you did at the Masters last year?
REGULARS: (taunting, like children) Chickie, chickie, chickie...
SIMMS: Any game, I name it?
MOLLY: Oh, come on, David --
SIMMS: I just want to teach him a lesson.
MOLLY: Why do men insist on measuring their dicks?
TIN CUP: Awright, awright! Let's measure,
MOLLY: For God sakes, I wasn't being literal! (beat) David, let's go.
SIMMS: Molly, trust me on this one. Call it part of his mental preparation for the Open, where the rough is deep, the greens are slick, and the nerves are shattered. (to Tin Cup) I'll take the bet.
MOLLY: Oh, jeez...
TIN CUP: Awright!   What's the game?
SIMMS: One swing each. Who can hit the longest seven iron --
TIN CUP: It's a lock! I hit the seven like John Daly hits a three!
TIN CUP: From right here, okay?
SIMMS: Fine with me.
MOLLY: You guys are really being childish --
SIMMS: Molly, leave this one to me.
TIN CUP: Dr. Griswold, I know what I'm doing.
TIN CUP: (to himself) Dollar bills...
CLINT: Them signs are at least thirty yards farther -- that ball musta gone 220...
TIN CUP: That ball's about 2-2-7... toed it a bit... but it'll do...
REGULARS: Nearly 230 with a seven!    Pureed it, baby, he pureed it!
TIN CUP: Take a minute to limber up, fine with me --
SIMMS: Don't need to.
TIN CUP: Take your jacket off?
SIMMS: No, no, I'm fine.
TIN CUP: (cockily) You're gonna need to muscle up, big guy -- give it the old steroid jerk...
CLINT: You the man, Roy...
EARL: You definitely the man...
P.A. ANNOUNCER (V.O.): Bring out those bills, boys, if ya wanta see a little more of Sammantha!
SAMMANTHA: (to Tin Cup) Hey, honey...
TIN CUP: Hey, honey...
DOREEN: I heard you qualified for the Regionals -- why you so down?
TIN CUP: I broke my clubs -- don't ask why, my caddie's pissed off at me, I lost my wheels in a sucker bet, and my shrink thinks I'm a fool -- 'cause I probably am...
DOREEN: You're seeing a therapist?!
TIN CUP: Yeah, what's wrong with that?
DOREEN: Only way you'd ever go into therapy was if the shrink was a doll and you were trying to get her into the rack --
TIN CUP: You're so shallow. The Good Doctor and I are dealing with my regression and denial --
DOREEN: Oh, Tin Cup, what a crock.    You got a hard-on.
GUY: You `Tin Cup'?     Won the Local with a seven iron?
TIN CUP: That's me.
GUY: McAvoy?   The Tin Cup McAvoy?
DOREEN: There's only one -- thank God...
TIN CUP: Yeah.   You looking for a game?
DOREEN: How long have you been seeing this `Good Doctor'?
TIN CUP: Excuse me, Dor', the man's having trouble with his grip --
GUY: See, I used to play a real weak grip. But you look at Couples, he's got a left hand way over here...
TIN CUP: No, grip it like this, so you're holding on with the last two fingers of your left hand.
GUY: See that? Tin Cup McAvoy says you grip a golf club like this, with these two fingers.
DOREEN: Roy? (off no response) Roy?   Tin Cup? Hello?
TIN CUP: The grip and address are about 90 percent of the golf swing, so pay attention here...
COWBOY: When you're done with him, can I ask you about my club position at address?
DOREEN: No, honey, you ain't -- but a healthy woman's only got two choices in this world of ours... (beat) Either fall in love with another woman -- or take up golf.
TIN CUP: ... Now the stronger right-hand grip can help ya draw the ball, which I plan to do at the Regionals next week in Tulsa... just shift the hand over a little bit... blah, blah, blah...
CLINT: We get through the next 36 holes and we in the Open!
EARL: I got the yips and I ain't even teeing it up...
TIN CUP: Nothing to worry about, boys --
JOSE: But you ain't got Romeo?
TIN CUP: Don't need him till the Open -- he'll be back.
TIN CUP: Oh no, I got her. Right here.
TIN CUP: She can't travel to Arizona for the Regionals -- she's got a busy practice, y'know... so she made me this tape to play while I'm out there... keep me calm, cool, and collected...
EARL: What's on it?
TIN CUP: A little James Taylor, little George Jones, little Kahlil Gibran, little this, little that... and a lotta the voice of the smartest chick I ever met.
EARL: The good doctor herself...
CLINT: Can we hear it or is it personal?
TIN CUP: Since when is therapy personal, eh?
MOLLY (V.O.): (on tape) ... `Private victories precede public victories. You cannot harvest a crop before you plant it...'
MOLLY (V.O): (on tape) ... `How you view the problem, is the problem...'
MOLLY (V.O.): (on tape) ... `Follow your bliss...'
MOLLY (V.O.): (on tape) ... `Say not that I have found the truth but that I have found a truth...'
MOLLY (V.O.): (on tape) ...`You can't have the fruits without the roots...'
EARL: I think three under will qualify. You need birdie. I could shit.
TIN CUP: A little more confidence there, Earl...
EARL: I wish Romeo was here. I ain't cut out to do this. I'm a spectator by nature. An observer. I'm a --
TIN CUP: Shut up and hand me the Big Dog.
EARL: You got it.
TIN CUP: The Force is with me, pods...
TIN CUP: We need this one big time, Earl, whattya think?
EARL: (unsurely) Looks straight to me.
TIN CUP: Straight?! Thing's a roller coaster breaks four ways and dies at the hole -- you're blind!
EARL: Actually, I am blind... 20-60 in one eye -- and that's the good eye...
TIN CUP: I got a blind caddie... just hold the stick, Earl -- and be sure to pull it out...
MOLLY (V.O.): (on tape) ... when the going gets tough, the, the, the, whirrrrrrrrrrr, the, the...
TIN CUP: Doc?  Doc? (panicky) Earl, Earl -- the tape's jammed! She's abandoning me!
MARSHAL: Are you okay?
TIN CUP: Yeah, yeah... I'm flying solo now...
MARSHAL: What?
TIN CUP: I gotta make this putt.
MARSHAL: Obviously.
TIN CUP: ... just pick the line, feel the speed -- bad timing, doc, Jesus...
TIN CUP: Like a million others you made in your life, Roy. Just see it going in. Just feel it... right in the back of the jar... just pull the goddamn trigger, you pussy...
TIN CUP: Pull the stick, Earl, pull it!
TIN CUP: Choking dogs die!
TIN CUP: Romes!  You've come back! (no answer) You shoulda been there, Romes, I drained a 30-foot snake to qualify! (off no answer) Earl gave me a straight read -- the thing broke half a dozen times -- missed ya, pods!
TIN CUP: Okay, don't talk to me -- but you're still my guy... (losing patience) It's a little late to be pissed off! We're in the Open! You and me!
TIN CUP: Awright, be that way -- (switches course) -- say... has Molly been around?
ROMEO: I knew you had the hots for her.
TIN CUP: What's this? Garbo speaks? Of course I have the hots for her and I'm doing a damn good job of keeping things platonic and professional till I kick Simms' ass and show her I ain't who she thinks I am because, in fact, I am who she thinks I am but if I win the Open I won't be.
ROMEO: Well, I don't think her nor me nor the God of Golf his self can keep you from blowing up in the Open...
TIN CUP: I made it this far! I just got to hold it together for 72 more
ROMEO: There's a lotta triple bogeys out there waiting to grab your ass.
TIN CUP: (cheerily) You're complaining again! Romeo's back! Whining, bitching, pissed off -- you're my man!
ROMEO: You didn't fall in love with Earl to be your caddie?
TIN CUP: He was a wheezing heart attack waiting to happen -- cost me three strokes a side... (beat) I carried my bag the last four holes. I love ol' Earl but I need you.
ROMEO: You don't love me?
TIN CUP: (exasperated) I love you, too, God damn it!
ROMEO: As much as Earl?
TIN CUP: I don't know! Yes, yes, as much as Earl -- (beat) More than Earl!
ROMEO: Am I special?
TIN CUP: If you can remove the sexual connotations and overlay a golf theme, Romeo -- I am your Juliet.
ROMEO: Muy bien, Julietta. In that case -- I am your caddy once again.
TIN CUP: Awright... now that we got that bullshit outta the way, I'm gonna hit me some balls and start oilin' that sweet swing o' mine for the big boys...
TIN CUP: Nobody heard from Molly, eh?
ROMEO: You got it bad, don't ya?
TIN CUP: Somethin' about that chick...
TIN CUP: Hmmm... little chili dipper there...
ROMEO: Be sure to do that in the Open.
TIN CUP: Romeo!
ROMEO: I'm watching.
TIN CUP: It ain't no chili dipper.
ROMEO: Yeah, boss, you got the 'S' word.
TIN CUP: What am I doing wrong?
ROMEO: Shanks are like a virus -- they just show up. Nobody can figure 'em out.
TIN CUP: Romes!   Something's terribly wrong.   What's your guess?!
ROMEO: It's the woman.
TIN CUP: I thought you said it was a virus?
ROMEO: A woman can have the same effect.
TIN CUP: What do I do?
ROMEO: Keep swinging...
CLINT: Never thought it would happen...
EARL: The shanks is for us mortals, not
JOSE: Esta muy feo... muy, muy feo...
TIN CUP: Y'know why they named this game 'golf'? 'Cause the words 'fuck' and 'shit' were already taken!
DOREEN: Hiya, fellas!
TIN CUP: What is this? Everybody like to watch a train wreck?!
DOREEN: He's in one of his pleasant moods, I see --
ROMEO: He's got the shanks. We got the makings of a Greek tragedy here.
DOREEN: (shouting to Tin Cup) Quit whining and get over here. We've got something for you.
TIN CUP: Unless it's a 'swing thought,' I'm not interested...
DOREEN: (ignoring his attitude) We're here to sponsor you in the
TIN CUP: But I got the shanks --
DOREEN: Yeah, and you obviously still have a hard-on for the doctor chick -- your face is all screwed up and tight like you haven't been laid in awhile --
TIN CUP: Is it really that obvious?
DOREEN: It's not a good look for you. Roy, your heart is not the only organ you wear on your sleeve. There's a certain, vulgar appeal to your transparency.
CLINT: C'mon, Tin Cup, we're trying to make you a presentation --
TIN CUP: Awright, awright...
DOREEN: I got the Golden Tassel to sponsor you at the Open.
TIN CUP: You expect me to pack that around?
ROMEO: I'm carrying the bag.
DOREEN: It's worth four hundred dollars endorsement money to you --
TIN CUP: I'm being sponsored by a sewage disposal system?
EARL: We call it human resources management, Roy, please...
JOSE: I've got Wally's Smokehouse for ya -- kind of a nice sign...
DEWEY: And since I couldn't get the post office to come aboard, me and my girl friend Muriel's gonna buy a fan club patch you can put anywhere you want.
TIN CUP: I'm supposed to wear this shit?
JOSE: This shit is us, man.   You can't win without us.
DOREEN: You're the pride of Salome!
TIN CUP: Hell, I won't even make the cut!
DOREEN: What happened to your confidence?
ROMEO: He's shanking his love life so he's shanking the golf ball.
DOREEN: Must be true love.
ROMEO: He's a goner.
TIN CUP: Look, everybody, this is great. I'm sorry I'm acting so pathetic but my swing's never abandoned me before. I just need a little time to work it out.
EARL: Anything you want --
CLINT: Give him some room, boys --
TIN CUP: (to anyone who'll listen) Maybe it's my grip... maybe I'm opening up too soon... too late... coming over the top... no, dropping underneath... (beat) Oh, sweet Jesus, why have you abandoned me?
DOREEN: (to the regulars) He's trying to talk to God.   It's time for us to go.
ROMEO: You want me to stay, boss?
TIN CUP: I need to be alone.
ROMEO: You got it.
MOLLY: Roy?   Anybody home?
MOLLY: My God...
TIN CUP: Aarghh...
MOLLY: Roy...
TIN CUP: Dr. Griswold...
TIN CUP: The therapist laughs at her patient? Is that how it works? A man is laid bare before God and he's the butt of the cosmic joke?
MOLLY: I'm sorry, I just...
TIN CUP: Some of this shit might actually
MOLLY: Oh, Roy, Jesus... Quoting yourself, 'It is the paraphernalia for lost and desperate souls.'
TIN CUP: Well, God damn... a lost and desperate soul stands before you. (beat) I assume I have the confidentiality of doctor-client privilege in regards to this outfit?
MOLLY: Of course you do. What happened?
TIN CUP: I got the shanks.
MOLLY: Are you taking penicillin?
TIN CUP: It can't be treated! It's much worse than whatever you thought it was. (beat) There's a glitch in my swing.
MOLLY: So it's in Romeo's department?
TIN CUP: He thinks it's your department -- says it's a head thing.
MOLLY: Oh. Well. I just came over to congratulate you on the regionals and return your car -- David says he doesn't want it, just wanted to make a point with you -- (beat) But I suppose we could have a therapy session right here and now
MOLLY: Roy...   I gotta get some air --
TIN CUP: Look at me -- (considering what that means) Well, not right at the moment -- but listen to me. You're with the wrong guy. I'm the right guy. Everyone tells me my face is all screwed up tight as a drum 'cause I've been crazy about you from the day you showed up wearing this stupid stuff and the whole damn thing has both inspired me to get here on the verge of greatness yet it's also caused me to get the shanks which could humiliate me in front of a zillion people. (beat) Such is life. So dump that phony bastard and come to the Open in my corner -- you can delay your romantic urges, which I know are lurking in there among the excess of brain cells you possess -- until the appropriate time... (beat) Tell me you're not at least moderately attracted to me.
MOLLY: You have moments.
TIN CUP: Tell me which ones are my moments and I'll try to duplicate them.
MOLLY: This is a moment. You look great.
TIN CUP: Now?!
MOLLY: Utterly exposed, completely vulnerable, the inner child trying to get out.
TIN CUP: My inner child needs spanking.
MOLLY: You always liked that part about saddling up, the smell of leather
TIN CUP: C'mon, let's have a drink. Call it therapy. Charge me 75 an hour. Little Cuervo, little Freud...
MOLLY: Naw... I gotta go. (turns to leave) Oh, I don't have a car, I need a ride.
TIN CUP: I know a spot along the river's great to watch the sunset?
MOLLY: Not tonight.
TIN CUP: 'Not tonight' means maybe some other night?
MOLLY: I didn't mean it like that.
TIN CUP: Consciously you didn't mean it like that -- but how about unconsciously, you're the expert, did you mean it unconsciously?
MOLLY: Unconsciously, Roy, I don't have a clue what I'm talking about.
TIN CUP: I feel we're making progress.
MOLLY: Good luck in the Open, Roy.
TIN CUP: Put your money on me, Doc, the odds are fabulous and God knows I'm overdue...
ROMEO: You got to relax, boss --
TIN CUP: Goin' to the U.S. Open with the shanks. Gonna be chili dipping my way around the course on worldwide television... sure, relax.
ROMEO: I'm gonna get rid of them shanks for ya. No hay problema.
TIN CUP: Molly and I are circling each other... I can feel it...
ROMEO: She the enemy, boss.
TIN CUP: Naw...
TIN CUP: Tell me something, Romes -- the absolute truth -- you think I can go 72 holes without falling apart.
TIN CUP: You heard me! I don't want no bullshit... do you think I can do it?
ROMEO: I don't know, boss, I just don't know.
TIN CUP: I bet this is the first Winnebago they ever saw here...
ROMEO: Yeah... and the first Mexican...
SECURITY GUARD: Yes?
ROMEO: Como esta, amigo. I have with me one of the legendary ball strikers in the history of golf --
SECURITY GUARD: Who's that? Mr. Crenshaw? That you? Mr. Price, Mr. Norman? No?
TIN CUP: Roy 'Tin Cup' McAvoy. Representing the great American Southwest.
SECURITY GUARD: Do we have a... McCormack... on the list.
ROMEO: McAvoy -- Roy McAvoy -- he's a legend!
SECURITY GUARD: We got over 150 legends in this tournament. Sorry.
SECURITY GUARD: Call the police.
ROMEO: Police?
TIN CUP: There's a mistake here, fellas!
COP: We'll throw your ass in jail right now, pal -- there's a lotta lunatics here and we don't take chances...
SIMMS: What's the problem here?
SECURITY GUARD: This clown says he's in the Open...
TIN CUP: Hiya, David... nice sweater.
SECURITY GUARD: He's not on the list.
SIMMS: Hiya, Roy... welcome to the big leagues... (checks the list) Here ya go, Charlie, his name's right here. (to Tin Cup) They spelled your name wrong -- easy mistake with a total unknown.
SECURITY GUARD: (to Cop) Let him in.
TIN CUP: Which way to the practice range?
SIMMS: Oh he is... he's a very big name at a driving range in Salome, Texas...
ROMEO: Look! Right there! Fred Couples... and Ray Floyd!
TIN CUP: Look at these balls. Brand new Titleists. Lookit 'em, every one a brand new Titleist. (lowers his voice) Sneak a few in the bag when you get a chance. We swipe enough free shit we might even pay for this fiasco.
ROMEO: You think it would be inappropriate to ask Ray Floyd for an autograph?
TIN CUP: I think it's a dead giveaway, Romes... but if I still got the shanks we're gonna be found out real fast...
ROMEO: Hit the seven iron. You never miss the seven...
TIN CUP: Good thought, Pods...
TIN CUP: Dollar bills...
TIN CUP: (to anyone who'll listen) Who hit that shot? Anybody see?
ROMEO: A little thin, Boss.
TIN CUP: A little fucking thin?! I still got the shanks! Everybody's watching! Christ, Simms is here...
ROMEO: Maybe we should work on putting. Ya can't shank a putt.
TIN CUP: If you're the Mexican Mac O'Grady, Romes, you gotta figure out why I'm still shanking the ball. (beat) What's the problem? I'm catching it on the hosel, right? Moving my head? I'm laying off it, I'm pronating, I'm supinating, I'm clearing too early, I'm clearing too late, I'm off plane, I ain't dropping in -- oh, God, my swing feels like an unfolding lawn chair.
ROMEO: You got a virus in your brain.   I
TIN CUP: Anything.   Kill me now!
ROMEO: Put all your change in your right pocket.
ROMEO: Very good. Now tie your left shoelace in a double knot.
ROMEO: Esta bueno. Now, turn your hat around backwards and put a blue tee behind your right ear...
TIN CUP: I'll look like a fool.
ROMEO: What you think you look like hitting those squirrelly chili peppers up Freddy Couples' ass, eh? Do what I say or I quit.
TIN CUP: Okay, okay...
ROMEO: Perfect... now hit a seven iron into that tree over there. You're ready.
TIN CUP: How'd I do that?
ROMEO: You ain't thinking about shanking, you ain't thinking about the doctor lady, you ain't thinking period. You just lookin' like a fool and hittin' it pure -- your natural state.
TIN CUP: Fuck you.
TIN CUP: That's it?
ROMEO: That's it. Your brain was getting in the way.
TIN CUP: That's rarely been a problem. What now?
ROMEO: Well, I should recommend you go work on your short game but I think it's better if you go get drunk instead.
TIN CUP: Get drunk?
ROMEO: Yeah. You always play better when you're wasted.
TIN CUP: It's three in the morning, Romes, what time I tee off?
ROMEO: Seven-o-five... first group off... Keep drinking, keep dancing...
TIN CUP: That's four hours from now?
ROMEO: You're drinking till five... c'mon, c'mon, have another -- (a tough coach) Get you in shape --
ROMEO: Nothing like the sight of a finely-tuned athlete on the verge of greatness...
STARTER (V.O.): With the honor in the 7:08 pairing, from Salome, Texas, Mr. Roy McAvoy.
TIN CUP: No time for a bucket, eh?
ROMEO: Almost missed the starting time trying to get you off the floor, boss. You don't handle the hooch like you used to...
TIN CUP: No, I've learned my lesson. Gonna play it safe, smart, conservative. Fairways and greens. Hand me the two iron.
ROMEO: You sure?
TIN CUP: Thought of the day is -- `be humble.'
ROMEO: Eighty-three.    Well, you humble now.
TIN CUP: Eleven bogeys and seven pars. I didn't make a three. I didn't make one goddam three all day.
ROMEO: You weren't trying to make threes. You were trying to avoid making thirteen.
TIN CUP: I was hungover!
ROMEO: Maybe that was a coaching error on my part.
TIN CUP: Thanks, amigo...
SIMMS (V.O.): (on the television) I'm the last person who expected me to come out of the blocks with a sixty-seven and lead the Open... It's been a long time since I played this game with the fire and determination you need to win...
TIN CUP: The Anti-Christ shoots 67, you believe it?
ROMEO: Ol' Anti-Christ got a hot putter...
SIMMS (V.O.): (on television) ... you see, this game is all about integrity and tradition and honor...
TIN CUP: What? It's about cheating and racism and bullshit!
ROMEO: Easy, boss...
SIMMS: (live on mike) So tomorrow I'll just go out there and try to make some good swings and, Lord willing, maybe I can put up another good number. Thank you.
NANTZ: Thank you, David Simms, a brilliant opening round 67 to take the lead.
SIMMS: Gotta go.
OLD MAN: Excuse me, Mr. Simms! (off no response) Can you sign an autograph for our grandson?
SIMMS: (snaps) Can't you see I'm busy?! I'm working! This is my office! Do I come to your office and ask you for an autograph?! Jesus...
SIMMS: (muttering to himself) Who the fuck these people think they are...
MOLLY: Old people, children, and dogs...
PLAYER #1: Helluva round, Dave!
SIMMS: Got lucky out there...
PLAYER #2: Great start, Simmsy...
SIMMS: Hey, Tin Cup -- heard you put a monster number up there...
TIN CUP: Coulda been worse...
SIMMS: I played in the Pro-Am with some asshole movie star shot 82 here once... how did a great ball- striker like you, a `legend,' manage to shoot an 83?
TIN CUP: I missed a four foot putt on the eighteen for an 82, that's how...
SIMMS: It ain't like playing some muni track in Brownsville, is it?
MOLLY: Does, `integrity, tradition, and honor' include kicking a man when he's down?
SIMMS: Oh, Mol', this is just guy stuff, bar talk, part of the game -- no offense, right, Cup?
MOLLY: (defensively) This man still has a lot of good golf shots in his system --
TIN CUP: (trying to hide) Molly, it's okay, go away... I don't need any attention right
SOME GUY AT THE BAR: (to Tin Cup) You the guy shot 83?!
MOLLY: David, I'll bet you a hundred dollars right now that Roy here can hit a ball -- (looks around) -- from right here to... through that door to the patio...
TIN CUP: Molly, please...
MOLLY: (to bartender) And give me a vodka tonic with a twist --
SIMMS: Molly, really, this isn't... dignified...
MOLLY: Roy?
TIN CUP: I wanta go back to Texas...
MOLLY: What about the river, the piranha, the immortality? All that bullshit? You gonna drag your ass home with an 83? (looks around) In fact, two hundred says he can hit it through that door, over the patio, into the river, and make that pelican fly off that post.
ROMEO: You got that shot, Pods, hood the seven, turn it over, start it low, right to left...
MOLLY: I'm not leaving till one of you men starts acting in a manly fashion.
SIMMS: Let's just get this over with. One ball, one swing, one gull.
MOLLY: Roy?
ROMEO: You the man.
TIN CUP: One swing?   Four to one odds.
SIMMS: I'll make it ten to one. Stick it up your ass. I'm leading the Open.
MOLLY: Now we're talking! Manly men! McCORD ... He's looking at thirty yards of bar and grill, an opening through the French doors, forty yards of patio umbrellas, a
TIN CUP: Kind of a thin lie...
SIMMS: Beats all that deep rough you were in today...
ROMEO: Fore in the grill! Fore on the patio! You're the legend, boss...
TIN CUP: What is this all about?
MOLLY: Shut up and hit the ball. McCORD (on "mike") The Ledge still has to be thinking about that brutal, ego-sapping, manhood-robbing eighty-three he buried himself under yesterday. I mean, that's just an avalanche of golf swings, a landslide, a pyroclastic flow --
TIN CUP: Dollar bills...
ROMEO: Stiff, baby, stiff!
SIMMS: I'm outta here. You're all nuts.
MOLLY: I musta been blind thinking you were worth a shit, Simmsy! (raucously) Drinks on me, boys! Helluva shot, Roy!
TIN CUP: Actually I thinned it a little or that pelican'd be flying around with a Titleist up his ass...
TIN CUP: I kinda shanked it, eh?
MOLLY: No, no, no... you were great...
TIN CUP: Tempo is everything...
MOLLY: Perfection's unobtainable...
TIN CUP: Mighta rushed it on the downswing...
TIN CUP: Yeah... well, as Walter Hagen once said -- 'Sex and golf are the only two things you can be bad at and still enjoy...'
MOLLY: Let's take a mulligan and tee it up again --
ROMEO: You guys done yet? This is no time for a marathon...
NANTZ: The sun is struggling to come out, the course is drying up, and in case you're just joining us, the leaders have just reached the ninth hole because of delayed starting times -- (beat) -- David Simms is clinging to a one shot lead over Peter Jacobsen... but the real story is out on sixteen where a driving range pro who shot an opening eighty-three is making a run at perhaps the most legendary round of golf in Open history, Johnny Miller's sixty-three at Oakmont -- Ben Wright is in the tower at
WRIGHT (V.O.): If anyone was ever to make a run at what is the most storied number in Open history, Miller's sixty- three, it would be today when the rain has softened the greens, enabling the players to take dead aim at the flags. Still, the unswerving courage of an unknown driving range pro from Salome has raised that humble journeyman from the ashes of an ignominious eighty-three to wave a mighty fist at the pantheon of golf's immortals. This man, this Roy McAvoy has laid siege to the record book by birdieing the first seven holes. A brave par from the water at eight, and a glorious birdie three at the daunting twelfth, another at thirteen...
WRIGHT (V.O.): ... this putt to go ten under for the day...
DEWEY: They said on the radio he was ten under --
EVERYONE: Shhhh!!!
EARL: He's shooting the lowest round ever!
CLINT: And eighteen's a par five. A birdie there, he shoots sixty!
DOREEN: We gotta go, boys. We gotta get us on a Continental Trailways and find this damn place!
VENTURI: McAvoy's hit another big drive, but this is not a shot he wants to get aggressive with...
ROMEO: Two-sixty to carry, Roy. You got to lay up, man. I don't care how good you swinging. You got to lay
VENTURI: His adrenalin's gotten the better of him, Jim. If he lays up he takes bogey out of play.
VENTURI (CONT'D): But if he knocks this ball in the water he could make seven or eight. And he still has to think about making the cut.
SUMMERALL: Well, every golf fan in America is pulling for him.
TIN CUP: Nope.
ROMEO: Carry, honey!    Please!   Carry!
TIN CUP: What the hell. You ride 'er till she bucks you or you don't ride at all. I can save par from here.
ROMEO: Up an' down...
REPORTER #1: How do you go from shooting an eighty-three one day to a record- breaking sixty-two the next?
TIN CUP: Well, it wasn't from clean living...
REPORTER #1: If you had to do it again, would you still go for the green on eighteen?
TIN CUP: Yeah. And I'll go for it tomorrow and I'll go for it Sunday, cuz I didn't come here to play for no second.
VENTURI: It's the same shot he knocked in the water yesterday. And the thing for him to do right now is to tune out the gallery, rein in his emotions, and forget what he said in yesterday's interview. He has to lay up.
TIN CUP: Gimme the three wood.
ROMEO: There's wind up there.
TIN CUP: I know.
NANTZ: Well, he hasn't shown an ounce of fear all day.
VENTURI: This isn't courage, Jim. This is inexperience, pure and simple.
TIN CUP: This is for Venturi, up there in the booth, thinking I should lay up... (addressing his ball) Dollar bills...
TIN CUP: That's a long fucking ways. (holds out his hand) Gimme another ball.
ROMEO: Roy...
TIN CUP: What?
ROMEO: It's a water hazard. You go up there and take a drop. Try to save par like you did yesterday.
TIN CUP: You're right.    What the hell was I thinking?
REPORTER #3: I'm just trying to understand your thinking. You were in the same spot on eighteen yesterday without a headwind and you --
TIN CUP: You don't think I can knock it on from there?
REPORTER #3: It seemed like a low-percentage shot.
TIN CUP: So am I! Look at me. I'm playing for... (points at his sew-on patches) ... Rio Grande Short-Haul Trucking, Brink and Brown Sanitation, First State Bank of Salome, Wally's Smokehouse... You think a guy like me bothers to think about the percentages? --
MOLLY: I've got some money from the pelican bet -- why don't we go somewhere fancy and celebrate -- get ready for the final round.
TIN CUP: Nothing to celebrate yet. Plus these are my people. I'm a waffle house guy -- gotta stay in touch with that...
ROMEO: Plus he needs his carbohydrates --
CLINT: The legend!
EARL: God damn, we been driving for two days to help you in the last round --
JOSE: Saw the Winnebago outside -- we're starving...
DEWEY: Sixty-two!    Sixty-two!
TIN CUP: We're home now!
ROMEO: You boys a sight for sore eyes. We so damn sick of guys in blazers and slacks that don't wrinkle. It ain't natural 'round here...
DOREEN: Congratulations, Roy -- we're with you all the way.
TIN CUP: Doreen, meet Dr. Griswold... er, Molly... my shrink --
MOLLY: Ex-shrink. (matter-of-factly) We're sleeping together now so I can't be his therapist.
DOREEN: I knew it.
MOLLY: Knew what?
DOREEN: Nothing, dear. Good luck. (looking around) Say, I have a little extra cash -- why don't we go somewhere fancy and celebrate -- y'know, kinda get
DEWEY: This is the Waffle House, Doreen --
CURT: Hell, I been dreaming of waffles for 1800 miles...
EARL: They got a waffle house in Odessa just about like this...
JOSE: Odessa?   It's in Midland, ain't it?...
CLINT: No, it's in Odessa.
TIN CUP: It just don't get much better than this...
CLINT/EARL: You the man, Cup, you the man...
ROMEO: You're looking particularly lovely this evening... the coif is extraordinary.
DOREEN: Why thank you... Romeo.
TIN CUP: Yeah, I'm nervous. So's everybody else. But I only gotta come and catch Simms. Sixty-seven guys gotta come and get me...
TIN CUP: It won't always be like this... y'know... with me... surrounded by all these guys... snoring... a stripper ex-girlfriend on the floor... my caddie sleeping next to her... all of us damn near broke... won't always be like this...
MOLLY: Yes it will... yes it will... and it's okay...
MOLLY: Which one of you is the bookie?
DEWEY: We all are, but Earl's the best.
EARL: Vegas has him at ten to one. They're sure he's gonna self-destruct.
MOLLY: Those sound good to me -- I want you to place a bet for me. Five thousand nine hundred dollars on Tin Cup to win.
CURT: That's your nestegg.
EARL: That's a bad idea, honey -- we love him, but he's gonna fuck- up --
MOLLY: I said put it all on Roy.    Got it?
DEWEY: We can't let you --
MOLLY: Boys --
MOLLY: Put it all on Tin Cup.
JACOBSEN: Looking a little tight, Ledge.
TIN CUP: Musta got too much sleep last night. How you choking?
TIN CUP: No one's ever been ten under for the Open, not even Nicklaus.
JACOBSEN: That's right, Ledge. Not even Nicklaus.
SIMMS: Sorry, Roy, can't believe I didn't see you with all that high-priced endorsement crap you're flaunting.
TIN CUP: That's always been your problem, Dave. You don't think about winning; you just want to look good. (turns away to putt) Thing is, this ain't a beauty pageant. (turns back, getting in Simms' face) And it ain't a rain-shortened Quad Cities or a Greater Greensboro you can back into. This is you'n me, pal. This is match-play, and this time you ain't getting no three shots.
STARTER: With the honor in the final pairing, from Salome, Texas, Mr. Roy McAvoy.
TIN CUP: Fairways and greens, Dave... and don't forget to wave as I blow by.
SIMMS: You mean blow up? Like you always do?
TIN CUP: Do me a favor. Bet me a buck I don't put it in the fairway.
ROMEO: I bet you a hundred.
TIN CUP: Okay, good. (going to tee off) Puts things back in perspective.
ROMEO: Which way you going?
SIMMS: Nice double, Roy.
TIN CUP: Just keep making pars, asshole.
SIMMS: I'll take eighteen of 'em.
TIN CUP: And I will own you.
MOLLY: Oh no, Tin Cup ran it five feet past. (beat) How did he get the name 'Tin Cup'?
DOREEN (O.S.): He played catcher on the high school baseball team. The star pitcher had this big-league curve, and not all his pitches hit Roy in the mitt. Finally, you gotta respect a man's doggedness. You know? (beat) The team decided Tin Cup sounded better than Clank.
MOLLY: 'Clank''s not a good name for a man...
DOREEN (V.O.): Tell me something, Molly... have you ever had a Latin lover?
CLINT: Our boy's in trouble... ya think he's chokin'?
EARL: Our boy don't choke. He fucks up but he don't choke...
BEN WRIGHT: This is disaster for McAvoy. After losing three shots to par in the first four holes, he should have just taken iron off the tee to get the ball in play. Does he have any shot at all, Gary McCord?
TIN CUP: Fifty bucks says I knock it on... with a seven iron.
NANTZ: That took balls...
SIMMS: (to himself) That's just Roy being Roy. Just wait him out, Dave. Just make pars. Let him make the mistakes.
TIN CUP (O.S.): Beauty, Dave.    Par written all over it.
JACOBSEN: He's making his run.
MOLLY: (still watching Tin Cup) So why'd you leave him?
DOREEN: You ever dated a guy who actually believes in soul mates?
MOLLY: Actually, no.
DOREEN: He thinks he's a tough guy, but he's a hopeless romantic.
JACOBSEN: He's throwing darts back there. We gotta make birdies, Squeaky, or we are playing for second.
TIN CUP: That's right, Peter. You'n me. That's all there is.
FANS: Get in there!    Come on!   Go down!
EARL: He's tied for the lead again!    And they're running outta holes!
NANTZ: So it's come down to the seventy- second hole of this great championship, and the skill and courage of three Texans who have dueled throughout the day for the chance to be crowned Open Champion... Peter Jacobsen is on the fairway at 8 under, McAvoy at the 18th tee is tied at minus 8, and David Simms trails by one...
TIN CUP: Jacobsen's laying up. (turning to Simms) You ain't gonna have that luxury, Dave. Not if you play to win.
NANTZ: McAvoy's hit a perfect drive, Ken.
VENTURI: I'm not sure that's good news for McAvoy. With his inexperience, the last thing he needs is an excuse to fool with that water again today.
TIN CUP: I didn't catch it all.
ROMEO: Then you got to lay up.
TIN CUP: So birdie wins it.
TIN CUP: You or me, Dave?
TIN CUP: (whispering) He's laying up. Birdie to tie, eagle to win, and that gutless wonder's laying up.
ROMEO: (whispering) Par to tie, birdie to win... you lay up too, Roy. You can make birdie laying up.
TIN CUP: You know something, Romeo? Eagle puts me ten under. No one's ever finished an Open ten under, not even Nicklaus.
ROMEO: You don't need an eagle. Birdie wins, par ties. (firmly) Hit the lay up. Hole a wedge for goddamn eagle.
TIN CUP: This is everything, ain't it? This is the choice it comes down to. This is our immortality...
ROMEO: No time to be thinkin' 'immortality,' Cup... time to be thinkin' 7 iron.
DOREEN: Oh no. This is what always happens. He's going for it.
MOLLY: Go for it!
DOREEN: No! He just needs par to tie! Tell him to lay up! He listens to you!
MOLLY: Go for it, Roy! Knock it on!
DOREEN: This is why we split up -- he always went for it...
MOLLY: My problem is I've never been with
DOREEN: Well, honey, he's your guy.
NANTZ: Good Lord, he's going for the green.
VENTURI: This could be tragic.
TIN CUP: One swing, Roy. One good swing. Dollar bills...
TIN CUP: We're home...
TIN CUP: ... little gust there, Romes...
MOLLY: You can still make par from up there --
ROMEO: She's right, Pods, a drop and a stroke, up and down par -- we'll win it in sudden death.
TIN CUP: I nutted that thing. Little gust from the gods cost me...
ROMEO: Helluva move you put on that sucker, now let's get up there, take the drop, and make our par, tie Peter...
TIN CUP: I can make this shot.
ROMEO: Not now.
TIN CUP: Now.
TIN CUP: I'm playing it from here.
MOLLY: Take your drop and make your par!
VENTURI: I don't believe this. He just took himself out of the tournament with that drop. He could have walked up to the hazard line, saved par with a wedge and forced a playoff with Jacobsen. Now he needs a miracle shot. McCORD (V.O.) Ken, I'm right behind McAvoy here. And all he said to his caddie was: I can make it across.
VENTURI (V.O.): Oh, my.   This is tragic.
TIN CUP: Gimme another ball.
MOLLY: I can't believe he's doing this.
DOREEN: (unfazed) I can, honey...
MOLLY: He can blow the whole tournament!
DOREEN: It's a miracle he lasted this long...
CLINT: He done blew a gasket, boys...
EARL: The wheels is definitely falling off now...
JOSE: It was a miracle while it lasted...
ROMEO: This is your last ball, man. If this gets wet, you disqualified.
TIN CUP: I can make it across.
VENTURI: This is the most painful thing I've ever watched. McCORD (V.O.) Jim, this is the last ball he has in his bag. If he doesn't finish the hole with it, he can't turn in a card. He'll be disqualified.
MOLLY: You're right, Roy, what the hell! Let 'er rip!
DOREEN: You two are made for each other.
TIN CUP: Dollar bills...
SIMMS: I gotta hand it to you, Roy.   When you go down, you go down in flames.
TIN CUP: Someday you can tell your grandchildren you finished second in the U.S. Open... (beat) -- just don't tell 'em how.
TIN CUP: Good job, Tubbsy... you won it.
TIN CUP: My God... I just gave away the Open...
TIN CUP: It's not difficult to talk... it's difficult to explain... I coulda laid up and still won. I made a twelve on the last hole of the U.S. Open. You know how much money that cost me? McCORD Cost you a bundle...
TIN CUP: I gotta get outta here. McCORD It was the greatest 12 I ever saw. Back to you, Jim...
CLINT AND EARL: Greatest 12 I ever saw... you crunched that dog, baby... gorgeous shot, etc...
TIN CUP: Molly, I'm an idiot. I gave away the Open. The one time in my life I know the play is to hit the lay up -- my whole life and future and career on the line, and I still can't make myself do it. I am a twisted human being and a cautionary tale. And I guess I'm a fool?
MOLLY: Yes.   A magnificent fool...
TIN CUP: Some people don't like West Texas but I think it's the most beautiful place on earth...
MOLLY: It has its charms... (beat) Y'know, by finishing in the top 15 at the Open you qualified to be in it next year --
TIN CUP: Damn, I didn't know that...
MOLLY: I'm thinking with your game you should go back to the Qualifying School, try to get out on tour...
TIN CUP: Then I wouldn't see you...
MOLLY: Actually, I picked up a whole bunch of new clients at the Open. Lotta guys on the tour said if I could do that much for you, imagine what I could do for them...
TIN CUP: There's a lotta head cases out there, you could make a bundle...
MOLLY: And sleep in the Winnebago at night...
TIN CUP: Y'know... a man goes through what I've gone through, he's supposed to learn something. (beat) I'm trying to figure out what I learned. Did I learn anything?
MOLLY: You're learning some discipline and self-control...
TIN CUP: And that there's a time in life to play it safe...
MOLLY: That's great,   Roy... and I'm learning how to listen   to the tuning fork, throw caution   to the wind, and take crazy risks I   never thought were possible...
TIN CUP: C'mon, Molly, when did you ever take a crazy risk?
MOLLY: I fell for you...
