MATTHEW: Loses his grip on the unicorn. Archer reaches over and pulls him into his lap. They happily ride together. As the horses sweep back INTO VIEW. exposing Archer. Now we see the sniper. CASTOR TROY is cool, efficient, aggressive, sexual. His finger closes around the BOOM! A BULLET RIPS into Archer's back. Bleeding. he drops off his horse. and sinks to the deck of the carousel. His eyes desperately searching. searching. searching. until he sees Matthew lies on his back still. Slowly, Archer reaches out and takes Matthew's hand. and now we see COLOR for the first time. Blood red. as bleeding father touches bleeding son. TILT UP TO the winged Pegasus flying by now in full color and UP UP UP TO Matthew's red balloon. floating HANDEL'S MESSIAH OVER a SERIES OF SHOTS:
CAROUSEL HORSE: sweeps by, as if marking time itself.
HOLY PLACE: Smoky, spiritual. dominated by a gleaming, golden cross. A priest kneels before it deep in prayer. The glimmering cross comes INTO FOCUS. but it's just a light-reflection. off the casing of a large bomb. This is no chapel. but an atrium. Somewhere. And as the "priest" rubs out his cigarette we see it's Castor Troy carefully installing this complex device.
ARCHER: pockets his FBI badge, then holsters his gun.
CASTOR: sets the bomb timer then replaces a wall panel in front of it. Totally hidden.
ARCHER: Any follow-up from L.A.P.D. No, sir, nothing yet.
BUZZ: No, sir, nothing yet.
ARCHER: Get them on the phone now. What about S.I.S. and our airport We've had everything from psychics to satellites on this. Even if Castor was here. he must have slipped the net by now.
WANDA: We've had everything from psychics to satellites on this. Even if Castor was here. he must have slipped the net by now.
ARCHER: He's here! And we're going to keep looking until we find him! Jon, these people have been working round the clock you gotta cut them some slack.
TITO: Jon, these people have been working round the clock you gotta cut them some slack.
ARCHER: I'll cut them some slack when I cut myself some slack.
JANITOR: What are you doing?
CASTOR: ( in perfect Spanish ) Thank goodness, I feel like Icarus in the labyrinth where's the men's room?
JANITOR: ( in Spanish ) This area is off limits, Padre. ( re: security door ) How did you get in that room? Okay. I have a confession to make, but you aren't gonna like it. I was planting a bomb.
CASTOR: Okay. I have a confession to make, but you aren't gonna like it. I was planting a bomb.
JANITOR: You know boom Oh, never mind.
CASTOR: You know boom Oh, never mind.
CASTOR: I've never enjoyed 'The Messiah.' But your voice makes even a hack like Handel seem like a genius.
ARCHER: ( on phone ) . I don't have time to get a warrant from some hung-over judge. Just give me the go-ahead, Victor, and I promise as soon as this is over you can brand my butt with the Fourth Amendment.
ARCHER: Tell her to hang on
TITO: A jet was chartered at Anderson Airfield. Guess who just showed up to pay for it? Pollux Troy.
ARCHER: Scramble the Reaction Team we're moving out. And get one of our people on that plane.
TITO: But there's still no sign of Where one brother goes, the other's sure to follow.
ARCHER: Where one brother goes, the other's sure to follow.
POLLUX: You're 26 minutes late. The casing didn't fit right? I knew that cheap-shit Dietrich would rip us off.
CASTOR: Oh, God !
POLLUX: I forgot to turn the damn thing You're kidding, right? He's kidding. . are you fucking kidding!?
CASTOR: I forgot to turn the damn thing You're kidding, right? He's kidding. . are you fucking kidding!?
POLLUX: You're kidding, right? He's kidding. . are you fucking kidding!?
CASTOR: Bro everything went fine.
POLLUX: I hate when you call me bro. Thanks for babysitting.
CASTOR: Thanks for babysitting.
LUNT: Anything else?
CASTOR: I'll contact you when we get the rest of the money. Oh, and stat away from downtown. The inversion layer's going to be pretty thick around the 18th.
CASTOR: Let's go, let's go!
FLIGHT ATTENDANT: Would you like anything else?
CASTOR: Hell, yes. It's the only way to fly.
COCKPIT: Castor yanks open the door.
CASTOR: What's wrong?
CASTOR: It's Archer. Go, dammit!
WINTERS: F.B.I.! Throttle down, captain!
ARCHER: Get out.
TITO: You're not playing chicken with two tons of aluminum.
ARCHER: Get out!
COLLISION COURSE: as two hunks of metal bear down. The machines are seconds apart when Archer looks up to see. Winters' face pressed up against the cockpit window, Castor holding a gun to her head. Archer cuts the wheel just avoiding the jet. The Hummer skids to a stop as Federal back-up arrives but too late. Archer watches an FBI chopper landing in a swirl of dust. As the jet picks up speed. the hatch opens. Castor blasts Winters in the side and tosses her onto the Castor smiles at Pollux, sensing freedom, until. KA-CHUNK: Something POUNDS the jet from above. Castor leans out the hatch and sees. The chopper on top of them Archer at the controls. Eye-contact years of hatred pass between these men. Castor BLASTS at him from the open hatch. The chopper's left windscreen spiderwebs. Archer jerks and weaves dodging the BULLETS. The chopper pulls The jet finally lifts off. when. The chopper settles on the jet slamming at its tail.
INSIDE: Castor smiles at Pollux, sensing freedom, until. KA-CHUNK: Something POUNDS the jet from above. Castor leans out the hatch and sees. The chopper on top of them Archer at the controls. Eye-contact years of hatred pass between these men. Castor BLASTS at him from the open hatch. The chopper's left windscreen spiderwebs. Archer jerks and weaves dodging the BULLETS. The chopper pulls The jet finally lifts off. when. The chopper settles on the jet slamming at its tail.
TARMAC: Tito reacts to this madness as the chopper plays a deadly game of leap-frog with the jet. The end of the runway is coming up fast. Archer crushes the jet's horizontal elevator flap.
JET PILOT: can't budge the jet's jammed yoke. Thwarted, he powers back the throttle. Thrust reverse.
CASTOR: What are you doing?
PILOT: The horizontal elevator's smashed! We can't lift off!
CASTOR: SHOOTS the Pilot then takes the controls. He struggles to maneuver the jet. Suddenly. A biplane descends right at them about to land.
ARCHER: pulls up just as the JET swerves radically to avoid the biplane and SLAMS into the hangar.
JET: plows through the GLASS DOOR, the NOSE-WHEEL SNAPS off. The PLANE SKIDS right into the hangar finally stopping at the wings.
FBI CHOPPER: lands. Archer steps out calmly like a cop about to write a traffic ticket. He hurries to join more FBI agents rushing into the hangar ahead of him.
POLLUX: Forget it Go! Go!
CASTOR: Wherever they put you, I'll find a way to get you out.
TITO: not unless you want that 200 I.Q. splattered all over the We got him now, Jon.
ARCHER: That's what you always say. Seal it off. I'm going in.
CASTOR: Jon, I'm getting a little annoyed by your obsessive need to spoil my And how much will your 'fun' net you this time?
ARCHER: And how much will your 'fun' net you this time?
CASTOR: What's it to you? I declare it. Here I am, back in the States for less than a week
ARCHER: You're under arrest. Incredibly, you still have the right to remain I've got something going down on the eighteenth. it's gonna be worse than anything God ever dumped on the Pharaoh. I'll give it up but my brother and I have to walk.
CASTOR: I've got something going down on the eighteenth. it's gonna be worse than anything God ever dumped on the Pharaoh. I'll give it up but my brother and I have to walk.
ARCHER: No discussion no deals.
CASTOR: What're you gonna do with me locked up? You'll drive your wife and kid nuts! I bet your daughter is just about ripe by now. What's her name, Janie?
TITO: Tell me he didn't get away
POLLUX: Where's my brother?! I want to see my brother!
LAZARRO: The oversight committee would've roasted us for this one thank God it paid off. Damn fine work.
ARCHER: Real fine, Victor. Especially the
LAZARRO: Classified information. No
LAZARRO: You okay, Jon? Then go home. Tell Eve.
ARCHER: ( no response ) . What's wrong?
EVE: She complimented for her 'F' in history with an 'A' in
ARCHER: Nice stunt, Jamie. You break the law and I'm expected to ignore it?
JAMIE: That's right it's all about you. Don't even ask me what Okay. What happened?
ARCHER: Okay. What happened?
JAMIE: Like you'd ever fucking believe
EVE: Well, you tried. You failed miserably, but you tried.
ARCHER: Why won't she even talk to me?
EVE: Maybe because you taught her never to speak to strangers. I'm sorry. that wasn't fair.
EVE: I've got patients waiting. Try again, Jon. She hates you but she needs you.
ARCHER: Something in Archer's expression makes her stop.
EVE: Jon what is it?
EVE: Is it him? It's. it's over? I'm going to make everything up to you and Jamie. I'll put in for a desk job. We'll go away, get counseling anything you want. This time, I mean it.
ARCHER: I'm going to make everything up to you and Jamie. I'll put in for a desk job. We'll go away, get counseling anything you want. This time, I mean it.
SECURITY GUARD: Print, please.
ARCHER: Much appreciated. Now let's get back to work, okay?
WANDA: ( to Buzz ) Is that stick ever gonna fall out of his ass? The C.I.A. sent this over. What should I do with it?
KIMBERLY: The C.I.A. sent this over. What should I do with it?
ARCHER: Send it back and tell them to stop wasting the taxpayers' money. Anything else, Miss Brewster?
KIMBERLY: No, sir.
KIMBERLY: Four years and he still calls me 'Miss Brewster.'
ARCHER: How's Loomis?
TITO: He needs some surgery, but he's going to be okay. That's the good Go on.
ARCHER: Go on.
TITO: . Brodie and Miller from Special Ops need to see you.
ARCHER: I don't have time for those cloak and dagger guys. You better make time, Jon. We found this in the jet wreckage among Pollux Troy's effects.
BRODIE: You better make time, Jon. We found this in the jet wreckage among Pollux Troy's effects.
ARCHER: Porcelain casing. Thermal cloak. Undetectable payload.
MILLER: Powerful enough to flatten ten city blocks.
ARCHER: 'Worse than anything God ever dumped on the Pharaohs.' Get Pollux Troy. Now.
INTERROGATION FOOTAGE: Wired to a complex machine Pollux seems to have his frustrated interrogators on the run.
ARCHER: He's lying.
LAZARRO: He's hooked up to a full-spectrum Pollux is a manipulative psychopath. He can control his heartbeat, his sweat glands, his blood pressure.
ARCHER: Pollux is a manipulative psychopath. He can control his heartbeat, his sweat glands, his blood pressure.
LAZARRO: Jon, I trust your instincts, I always have. But D.C. wants more evidence. And frankly, so do I.
ARCHER: You'll get all the evidence you need when ten thousand people die.
LAZARRO: We'll get a team right on it. But we can't evacuate the city on what amounts to a hunch. That bomb has been built, it's out there somewhere and it's going to
ARCHER: That bomb has been built, it's out there somewhere and it's going to
BRODIE: Didn't Castor give any clue where the bomb might be?
ARCHER: Only one person knows his brother Pollux. And he'll keep his mouth shut until it blows.
BRODIE: We could plant an agent in his cell get him to spill the Pollux is way too paranoid. The only person he'd talk to about that bomb is Castor himself. And dead men can't talk.
ARCHER: Pollux is way too paranoid. The only person he'd talk to about that bomb is Castor himself. And dead men can't talk.
BRODIE: There might be a way around
ARCHER: Why are you keeping him alive? As long as he's breathing, he's Relax, he's a turnip.
MILLER: Relax, he's a turnip.
BRODIE: We can arrange for you to enter Erewhon Prison as Castor Troy.
ARCHER: What are you talking about?
HOAG: I think I'd better answer that Malcolm Hoag. I run the Physiological Camouflage Unit for Special Ops.
ARCHER: I know who you are.
MILLER: But you don't know what he can do. Physical augmentation; enhancement . He can disguise a compromised agent or alter the likeness even the voice of a government Let me show you how it's done. I think you'll recognize our
BRODIE: . He can disguise a compromised agent or alter the likeness even the voice of a government Let me show you how it's done. I think you'll recognize our
HOAG: Let me show you how it's done. I think you'll recognize our
HOAG: With our new generation of anti- inflammatories, healing is accelerated from weeks to days. By his next paycheck, he won't even remember which ear he lost. Your situation, however, would be a little less permanent.
BRODIE: and a lot more classified. This'll fool Pollux.
ARCHER: This'll fool Pollux.
HOAG: That is a state-of-the-art morpho- genetic template. The inside can be built to match the exact shape of your skull; the outside exactly like Castor's. Then we fit his face right on top
MILLER: and you become him.
ARCHER: You're talking about removing the guy's face?
BRODIE: Borrowing, Jon. The procedure's completely reversible.
MILLER: One way or the other the mission ends on the eighteenth. You know Castor better than anyone. You've lived and breathed him for years hell, you even look a little like him.
BRODIE: You know Castor better than anyone. You've lived and breathed him for years hell, you even look a little like him.
ARCHER: Find yourself another lab-rat.
MILLER: If you don't do this Castor will beat us again. He'll beat you again.
HOAG: I don't think that went very well.
BRODIE: Trust us, Doc.
MILLER: . he'll jerk around. Then he'll be back.
ARCHER: I'm in a hurry, Dietrich. So you've only got ten seconds to go through your usual litany of lies, empty threats, and moronic denials. Then I'm coming over If you're in such a fucking hurry why are you wasting your time with me? I'm just an art dealer.
DIETRICH: If you're in such a fucking hurry why are you wasting your time with me? I'm just an art dealer.
ARCHER: You're a dealer, all right: technical secrets, munitions. You've never proven any of that. And when my bitchy, never-been- laid femi-nazi lawyer gets here, she's going to.
DIETRICH: You've never proven any of that. And when my bitchy, never-been- laid femi-nazi lawyer gets here, she's going to.
ARCHER: Time's up.
LAZARRO: The only ticking bomb I see is inside his head. He's getting worse, Tito.
TITO: Don't worry, sir. It's all an
DIETRICH: . Okay! Castor called me but I blew him off. I swear I never saw him. And I don't know anything about any bomb!
ARCHER: Let him go, but I want him watched. Who's next?
TITO: Just Dietrich's sister.
ARCHER: When was the last time you saw Castor Troy?
SASHA: Who cares? He's dead.
ARCHER: Answer the question.
SASHA: Look, I'm clean. I teach kids Sasha you are a felon, on probation for harboring Castor Troy. So it's in your best interest to cooperate. Would you like your son put in a foster home? No, but I'm sure you'd love it you sick bastard.
ARCHER: Sasha you are a felon, on probation for harboring Castor Troy. So it's in your best interest to cooperate. Would you like your son put in a foster home? No, but I'm sure you'd love it you sick bastard.
SASHA: No, but I'm sure you'd love it you sick bastard.
ARCHER: ( unmoved ) When was the last time you saw Castor Troy?
SASHA: I haven't seen him for years.
ARCHER: What about Lazarro?
BRODIE: No way the red tape alone would take a month. This is a black-bag operation completely off the If you need him, Tito can help you prepare. But you know the drill: You can't tell anyone not the Director, not your wife. nobody.
MILLER: If you need him, Tito can help you prepare. But you know the drill: You can't tell anyone not the Director, not your wife. nobody.
ARCHER: I'm in.
EVE: I was dreaming.
ARCHER: Something good?
EVE: I'm not sure. you were flying this weird old stunt plane. doing flips. walking on the wings. I was watching from the ground when you fell. You had a parachute, but you wouldn't open Did you catch me?
ARCHER: Did you catch me?
EVE: How come?
ARCHER: How come?
EVE: I don't know. Maybe because you've never needed my help.
ARCHER: Come on, you made that up, didn't . Maybe I did. . maybe I didn't.
EVE: . Maybe I did. . maybe I didn't.
EVE: It's all right, Jon.
ARCHER: After all these years, I still can't get it out of my head an inch to the left, Matty would still be alive.
EVE: And you wouldn't be.
EVE: Things will get better now that you're home. Everything will be better now that. that man is finally out of our lives.
ARCHER: He starts to say the words. He wants, needs to share the truth with her. But he can't. Instead
ARCHER: . If I had to do something to find some closure. I should do it, shouldn't I?. No matter how Oh, God you're going on assignment again.
EVE: Oh, God you're going on assignment again.
ARCHER: One last time. And while I'm gone, I want you and Jamie to go to your mother's. It's You said you'd be here! You promised! What could be more important than that?
EVE: You said you'd be here! You promised! What could be more important than that?
ARCHER: I can't tell you. except only I can do it.
EVE: You want me to tell you it's okay to leave? Okay, go on! Go!
TITO: Jon, this is goddam insane. You can't do it.
TITO: You haven't got a chance in hell of fooling Pollux. Castor drinks, smokes and walks around with a 24- hour hard-on. He's nothing like Don't worry. If Hoag can do half what he claims, I'll get Pollux to
ARCHER: Don't worry. If Hoag can do half what he claims, I'll get Pollux to
TITO: It's not that simple, Jon. Becoming another person especially him nobody can come all the way back from that. not even you.
ARCHER: Keep this for me.
HOAG: Let's walk through it, Jon. Your blood types are different, but we can't do anything about that. Otherwise, nature is cooperating nicely. The height difference is negligible within 1/2 an inch. Eye color almost a perfect match. Penis size, flaccid, essentially the same
HOAG: Hairline will be adjusted with laser-shears. micro-plugs for the body hair. the teeth will be bonded to match Castor's. How about an abdominoplasty?
HOAG: How about an abdominoplasty?
ARCHER: Abdomino what?
HOAG: A tummy tuck. On the house.
ARCHER: Do it.
TRANSFORMATION MONTAGE: ( INTERCUT huge video screen enlargements of Archer and Castor's body parts as necessary ): Globules of adipose tissue are siphoned off Archer's obliques. At the same time. Hoag recreates the "Great Sphinx" tattoo on Archer's thigh. We PUSH IN ON his leg, then PULL BACK to Archer and Tito. The CLOSE UP on his leg becomes a FULL SHOT as he walks across the rooftop like himself. Tito demonstrated the proper "Castor gait": dangerously casual, like a panther. Hoag reproduces Castor's fingerprints. then layers them over Archer's fingers. Archer practices Castor's icy, killer glare. Tito hands him a lit cigarette. Archer brings the cigarette to his lips then coughs harshly. But he keeps trying. Castor smiles. then smirks and laughs. PULL BACK to reveal Archer studying surveillance footage of Castor on a monitor-screen mimicking him. Archer fusses with his new hair, trying to cover the thin spots. Giving up, he zips up his sweatshirt getting the zipper caught in his new chest hair.
TITO: Nice catch. But you used the wrong hand.
TITO: Shoot me. Shoot me!
TITO: You want to be Castor Troy? If you hesitate for a breath, you're finished! Now shoot me! Kill
TITO: You can't do it. because Castor is tougher than you.
HOAG: Let's see if I missed anything before I get my hands really dirty.
HOAG: You realize this has to be Then here we go, Commander. Through the Looking Glass.
HOAG: Make sure you get everything I'll need to study the tape before the reverse surgery.
HOAG: Vault it.
TITO: Jon are you all right?
ARCHER: Okay. I'm okay. But my voice. I still sound like I implanted a micro-chip onto your
HOAG: I implanted a micro-chip onto your
ARCHER: Now what?
TITO: We're down to 72 hours. Let's call Lazarro. Castor Troy just came out of his coma.
TITO: Watch this hard-case he'll bite your nuts off if he gets the
LOOMIS: What a week for Archer to go on a training op. Maybe we should try to contact him.
WANDA: Forget it. He's knee-deep in Georgia swamp by now.
ARCHER: Don't forget I ordered a kosher You are now an Erewhon inmate a citizen of nowhere. Human rights zealots, the Geneva convention and the P.C. police have no authority here. You have no right. When I say your ass belongs to me I mean it. Bend over.
WALTON: You are now an Erewhon inmate a citizen of nowhere. Human rights zealots, the Geneva convention and the P.C. police have no authority here. You have no right. When I say your ass belongs to me I mean it. Bend over.
WALTON: Step into them.
WALTON: Don't sniff 'em, you perv. Just step into them. They're too tight.
ARCHER: They're too tight.
WALTON: So's a noose. Now keep your mouth
WALTON: The prison's one big magnetic field. The boots'll tell us where you are every second of the 201 to Population.
WALTON: I've got fifty bucks says you're dead by dinner. Don't disappoint
LITTLE MAN: Hey, Castor remember me?
ARCHER: Fabrice Voisine. sure, I I believe Jon Archer busted you for poisoning five members of the the Canadian parliament?
ARCHER: Do I look wasted asshole?
GUARD: ( into comm-unit ) Central. I have a disturbance in population. Go to lock down
WALTON: ( into comm-unit ) Hold that lock down.
ARCHER: Never in the face.
WALTON: Lock 'em down.
ARCHER: What? He started it!
ARCHER: When I get out of here
WALTON: You'll what?
ARCHER: I'm going to have you fired.
WALTON: ( to Dubov ) That's two strikes, Dubov. One more and you know where you're ( to the others ) Back to your 'suites' or no
POLLUX: Hey, bro.
ARCHER: Of course it's Pollux, what the fuck's wrong with you?
POLLUX: Of course it's Pollux, what the fuck's wrong with you?
CASTOR: Lars. okay, Lunt, then. Something really fucked-up happened. I'm in trouble. so listen very carefully.
HOAG: What's this about? What do you
CASTOR: What do you think I want?
POLLUX: You realize, of course, that magnetic humming is designed to drive us insane. If we all don't get brain tumors first.
VOISINE: And that same cloying Bambi tape over and over.
POLLUX: It's like they're begging us to riot. Where the fuck are we, Gotta go.
POLLUX: . I'm worried about you.
ARCHER: Your jumpshot has no arc. You used to swagger. now you swish. You're gumming that butt like a Catholic school girl. And why do you keep picking at your finger?
POLLUX: Your jumpshot has no arc. You used to swagger. now you swish. You're gumming that butt like a Catholic school girl. And why do you keep picking at your finger?
ARCHER: I was in a coma. My reflexes, my senses, my memory. everything's jumbled. I can't even tell you why Dubov jumped me yesterday.
ARCHER: My reflexes, my senses, my memory. everything's jumbled. I can't even tell you why Dubov jumped me yesterday.
POLLUX: You Pollinated his wife the day he was arrested. How could forget I've forgotten plenty. Look around we've screwed over half the freaks in here. What's gonna happen to us if they think I've lost it?
ARCHER: I've forgotten plenty. Look around we've screwed over half the freaks in here. What's gonna happen to us if they think I've lost it?
ARCHER: I need you to play big brother for once till I can fill in a few blanks. Think you can handle
ARCHER: I know I got this on my tenth birthday. I just can't remember Man that was the worst day of our lives!
POLLUX: Man that was the worst day of our lives!
ARCHER: Oh, God Mom O-D'd at County Retching and convulsing while those bastards didn't even try to save her sorry ass. You gave her mouth to mouth man even then you had some constitution. Remember what you swore to me at the funeral?
POLLUX: Retching and convulsing while those bastards didn't even try to save her sorry ass. You gave her mouth to mouth man even then you had some constitution. Remember what you swore to me at the funeral?
ARCHER: Uh to kill the doctors?
POLLUX: After that. You promised you'd always take care of me.
ARCHER: And I bet I kept that promise.
POLLUX: Only one you've never broken. Screw the past. We've got the future to look forward to. We still have tomorrow.
ARCHER: Screw the past. We've got the future to look forward to. We still have tomorrow.
POLLUX: No shit. five million bucks. now those Red Militia crackpots get to keep it.
ARCHER: That's not the worst part.
POLLUX: What's worse than losing five million bucks?
ARCHER: Being stuck in this rat-hole when it blows. What you built was a work of art. It belongs in the
POLLUX: Yeah well. the L.A. Convention Center will have to Thanks, Pollux.
ARCHER: Thanks, Pollux.
POLLUX: 'Thanks'? I guess they really did fuck you up.
WALTON: You have a visitor.
IMPOSTOR: What's the matter? Don't you like the new me?
ARCHER: Not anymore.
CASTOR: Not anymore.
ARCHER: It can't be. It's impossible.
CASTOR: I believe the phrase Dr. Hoag used was 'titanically remote'. Who knows? Maybe the trauma of having my face cut off pulled me out. Or maybe God really is on my side after all. By the way, I know you don't get the papers in here. "INFERNO AT HOAG INSTITUTE Malcolm Hoag Dead"
CASTOR: Terrible tragedy. Hoag was such a genius but selfish with his artistry. I actually had to torture his assistants to convince him to perform the same surgery on me.
ARCHER: You killed them?
CASTOR: Of course I killed them, you dumb fuck. Hoag, his staff.
CASTOR: Miller and Brodie I even paid a visit to your buddy He doesn't know anything about Come on, Jon. I think I know you better than that. I only wish you could have been there to see the look on his face
CASTOR: I even paid a visit to your buddy He doesn't know anything about Come on, Jon. I think I know you better than that. I only wish you could have been there to see the look on his face
ARCHER: He doesn't know anything about Come on, Jon. I think I know you better than that. I only wish you could have been there to see the look on his face
CASTOR: Come on, Jon. I think I know you better than that. I only wish you could have been there to see the look on his face
CASTOR: then again, I guess you were I torched every shred of evidence that proves who you are. So swallow this you are going to be in here for the rest of your Castor, don't do this
ARCHER: Castor, don't do this
CASTOR: No discussion, Jon no deals. Now if you'll excuse me, I've got an important government job to abuse, and a beautiful wife to fuck. Excuse me I mean 'make love to.'
WALTON: Sorry, sir.
CASTOR: It's quite all right. You never know what to expect from a psychopathic criminal.
WALTON: Better be nice, Castor. You could get mighty lonely now that Pollux is gone.
ARCHER: Pollux is what?
WALTON: Archer cut him a deal for turning state's evidence. He's been Walton, you have to listen to me right now!
ARCHER: Walton, you have to listen to me right now!
WALTON: Or what? You'll have me fired? You're confined until I say
CASTOR: ( sickened ) Jesus, what a life.
ARCHER'S HOUSE: Dressed for work, Eve watches blandly as the car goes by. A moment later, it backs up and parks. Hiding the beer can, Castor forces a sheepish smile and gets out. She doesn't smile back.
EVE: I suppose it was only a matter of time before you forgot where we Sorry the job's been murder So what happened to your 'important' assignment?
CASTOR: Sorry the job's been murder So what happened to your 'important' assignment?
EVE: So what happened to your 'important' assignment?
CASTOR: What do you know about it?
EVE: I know exactly what you always tell me: Absolutely nothing.
CASTOR: It didn't work out the way everyone thought it would. Where are you off to?
EVE: I've got surgery.
CASTOR: Surgery are you okay?
EVE: Don't try to charm me I'm still angry. There're leftovers in the Have fun at work.
CASTOR: Have fun at work.
EVE: What is with you?
CASTOR: Don't I usually kiss my wife?
EVE: Castor reacts as she gets in the car and pulls out.
CASTOR: What a dump.
CASTOR: '. "Date-night" has been a typical failure. we haven't made love in almost two months.' What a loser .
CASTOR: The plot thickens.
JAMIE: I got your E-mail, Karl. That poem was really sweet Hang on a sec.
JAMIE: I'll call you back. You're not respecting my I'm coming in, Janie.
CASTOR: I'm coming in, Janie.
JAMIE: Castor spots her correct name embroidered on a pillow. He gazes seductively unnerving Jamie as he steps toward her.
CASTOR: I don't think you heard me. Jamie. You have something I want .
JAMIE: Clarissa left those here.
CASTOR: ( shrugs and I won't tell mom if you don't.
JAMIE: When did you start smoking?
CASTOR: You'll be seeing a lot of changes around here Daddy's a new man.
BUZZ: Listen, sir. we just want you to We're all really sorry about Yeah, well, shit happens.
WANDA: We're all really sorry about Yeah, well, shit happens.
CASTOR: Yeah, well, shit happens.
CASTOR: How's our star witness?
BUZZ: He hasn't told us a damn thing except what kind of mustard he likes on his tongue sandwiches.
WANDA: If that bomb is out there we're almost out of time.
LAZARRO: You made a deal with Pollux Troy? He's 'a manipulative psychopath.' Your own words, Jon!
CASTOR: Just let me do my job, Victor.
LAZARRO: The job I've been protecting for the last eight years. From now on, you go strictly by the book. Everything gets cleared by me. You're supposed to be snitching making me look good.
CASTOR: You're supposed to be snitching making me look good.
POLLUX: 'Look good'? Seeing that face I want to I'm the one who has to look at this butt-ugly mug every time I pass a mirror. Look at my eyes, my chin, my perfect nose gone! Archer took my life, so I'm taking his. Bro, I'm going straight.
CASTOR: I'm the one who has to look at this butt-ugly mug every time I pass a mirror. Look at my eyes, my chin, my perfect nose gone! Archer took my life, so I'm taking his. Bro, I'm going straight.
POLLUX: Sounds like they took your brain, Imagine Dillinger as J. Edgar Hoover. Carlos the Jackal running Interpol. Kaddafi heading the Mossad. Think of the secrets we could sell.
CASTOR: Imagine Dillinger as J. Edgar Hoover. Carlos the Jackal running Interpol. Kaddafi heading the Mossad. Think of the secrets we could sell.
POLLUX: The drug agents we could expose. The movie stars we could That's just the bottom of the food chain. Pollux what would happen if somebody planted a bomb on Air Force One?
CASTOR: That's just the bottom of the food chain. Pollux what would happen if somebody planted a bomb on Air Force One?
POLLUX: . that somebody would get rich. And, I suppose, the nation would be pretty pissed-off.
CASTOR: Pissed-off, vulnerable. looking for someone to step in, take charge, give them hope again. What if that someone was an F.B.I. hero? A true Boy Scout and family man with a spotless past. Imagine where that guy could land if the timing's right.
POLLUX: It's an audacious dream, Caz. But Jon Archer is hardly a household Not yet he isn't. But after you 'confess' you'll be a free man. And I'll be on my way.
CASTOR: Not yet he isn't. But after you 'confess' you'll be a free man. And I'll be on my way.
BOMB LEADER: Jesus. Any suggestions?
TECHNICIAN: Yeah. run
BOMB LEADER: It's protected by a vibration detector. One touch and.
CASTOR: Evacuate your team, Captain.
BOMB LEADER: Sir, you can't disarm it
CASTOR: Just go!
WALTON: A special privilege today: TV by order of Agent Jon Archer of the F.B.I.
REPORTER RICE: The apparent target was a group of Supreme Court justices due to speak here today. Mr. Archer, do you have any idea who planted it?
CASTOR: That's classified. But if he's listening I have a message for Nice try. Now you know who's really in charge.
CASTOR: Don't you guys watch TV? Where's the parade? all of you, thanks from the bottom of my heart. Thanks for enduring all those years I was an insufferable boor. From now on consider me reborn.
CASTOR: Loomis, Buzz, uh Wanda. all of you, thanks from the bottom of my heart. Thanks for enduring all those years I was an insufferable boor. From now on consider me reborn.
WANDA: Stop the presses Jon Archer found a personality.
KIM: Sir. the White House is calling.
CASTOR: Jon, your career is finally taking Archer. Sure I'll hold.
CASTOR: Mr. President, what an honor.
CASTOR: How about a game of horse?
JAMIE: Don't make me beat your butt again, Dad. It's harmful to my developing psyche.
CASTOR: Afraid you'll lose?
CASTOR: Jamie sneers at him. He buries another one.
'H.': Jamie sneers at him. He buries another one.
CASTOR: Try putting a higher arc on the ball. and square your shoulders to the basket.
JAMIE: Gotta go. Karl's here.
MATCH: flares as Castor lights a candle. The dining room table is set for a candlelight dinner. He smiles warmly at her
CASTOR: Don't tell me you forgot. Eve it's date night!
EVE: Why do I feel like I'm on a blind It's important to keep some mystery. so things stay.
CASTOR: It's important to keep some mystery. so things stay.
EVE: 'Unpredictable'? You're about as unpredictable as the tide. How long are you going to be gone this time?
CASTOR: Isn't that what all this is about? The wine, cooking me dinner your next assignment?
EVE: Isn't that what all this is about? The wine, cooking me dinner your next assignment?
CASTOR: I'm not going anywhere.
EVE: You always say that then you I bet I deserved that. I bet Jon Archer is the most inattentive, sexless spouse on Earth.
CASTOR: I bet I deserved that. I bet Jon Archer is the most inattentive, sexless spouse on Earth.
EVE: Jon, that's not true
CASTOR: Of course it's true, but I'm trying to change? I'm here because I want to be alone with you. I want to see the candle- light dance in your beautiful
CASTOR: brown eyes.
CASTOR: I wanted it all to be just right. when I told you about my Your what?
EVE: Your what?
CASTOR: Well, I don't have it yet. But Lazarro's getting old he won't be around forever. And I'm getting the itch to move up.
EVE: Jon. that's wonderful.
CASTOR: So you see, I'm not going anywhere. Unless it's upstairs with you.
CASTOR: baby, it's like I'm having you for the first time.
ARCHER: Don't they ever let us take off these boots?
VOISINE: Not unless you're sent to the You mean if I get sick?
ARCHER: You mean if I get sick?
VOISINE: They don't give two fucks about your health. The Clinic's where they send the real hard-cases for attitude adjustment. Dubov just got sent down and look at
VOISINE: Toughest bastard I ever saw after you, of course. Now he's a fucking drool case.
ARCHER: What did he do?
VOISINE: He hit a guard. Looking for trouble, Castor?
WALTON: Looking for trouble, Castor?
ARCHER: As a matter of fact yes.
WALTON: Bite hard, scumbag, 'cause you'll be gumming baby food from here on Get his boots, Sergeant.
ARCHER: Dubov come on!
AROUND PRISON: Chaos. Guards scatter as the huge diamond-vision SCREEN EXPLODES and inmates are flung like rag-dolls by their short-circuiting boots. Anything metallic flies into the magnetic domes.
SECURITY CENTRAL: As the men back through the cable duct Archer struggles to replace the heavy console. The DOOR is BLOWN open. Walton enters to find. no one. Then his eyes light on the console slightly askew.
SHEER WALL: Archer and Dubov scale the face using the old metal boots. They climb higher and higher as. Guards criss-cross the catwalks and staircases below and around them oblivious. Archer and Dubov almost reach the next level when.
WALTON: BULLETS SMACK the wall around them just as Archer and Dubov reach the next catwalk. Archer spots the emergency exit security door at the far end. But four guards descend on them and block their Fist fight as Archer and Dubov take on the attacking guards. Archer heaves one down the stairs into more guards. Dubov drops another over the catwalk. They continue their desperate race for the door reaching the landing. As BULLETS PING around them hulking Dubov rips away a floor panel. He uses it as a shield as Archer sparks up Walton's lighter. As SLUGS EXPLODE into the shield Archer places the flame to his thumb. and peels off the skin mold. He presses his thumb to the door's keypad. To his horror, its LED reads "print unreadable." Walton and guards movie in, FIRING at closer and closer Dubov staggers under the FUSILLADE OF BULLETS. The shield is repeatedly punctured and is quickly Archer licks his thumb, tries again. Finally it reads "Clearance Confirmed". the door slides open.
ARCHER: Let's go!
INSIDE COCKPIT: Archer searches for the keys. No go. He throws switches. Nothing works. Guards pour out of the hatch FIRING. Archer leaps from the chopper and jumps over the side to the LOWER LEVEL He lands hard on the slanted, corrugated shed roof and rolls to the ground. He grabs a high-pressure hose and cranks the pressure valve as the pursuing guards close in. Archer BLASTS the guards with the WATER CANNON knocking Walton and others into the sea. Archer upends a stack of oil barrels which roll into more guards. Archer spots:
LOWER LEVEL: He lands hard on the slanted, corrugated shed roof and rolls to the ground. He grabs a high-pressure hose and cranks the pressure valve as the pursuing guards close in. Archer BLASTS the guards with the WATER CANNON knocking Walton and others into the sea. Archer upends a stack of oil barrels which roll into more guards. Archer spots:
TUGBOAT: pulling a Zodiac dinghy heading out to sea. Archer jumps up a stack of pipes to the south rail where the end of a crane's hook is tagged back. Under FIRE Archer frees the hook, which swings away from the Hanging on to the hook, it swings him out over the ocean. At the apex le lets go and plummets down into.
CHOPPY SEA: He pulls himself into the ZODIAC and frees it from the tug. It ROARS off.
ARCHER: Come on. come on.
WIDE SHOT: The chopper settles over the Zodiac. Wind and water swirl around Archer.
CHOPPER: Walton, drenched but obviously rescued, has archer in his sights. He starts to FIRE his MACHINE GUNS.
ZODIAC: BULLETS RAIN down on the boat destroying it as Archer dives into the rolling swells.
INSIDE CHOPPER: Walton RAKES the debris shredding it. The chopper does a final circle of the wreckage. then moves off. its ROTOR WASH THRASHING the buoy.
UNDER BUOY: Archer has crawled up into the hollow buoy sucking INT. ARCHER HOME - BEDROOM - DAY Eve's asleep. Castor, dressed, looks down at her like Cortez at Montezuma triumphant, with overwhelming EXT. DRIVEWAY - DAY Heading for the car, Castor is about to light up when
EVE: Last night, I thought this isn't my husband.
EVE: Then I woke up in the middle of the night and found you passed out in the study.
CASTOR: I couldn't sleep you roll around a lot. Anyway, I'm late.
EVE: Jon, you know what day it is. I know it's difficult for you, but we still have to go.
CASTOR: Can't we skip it just this once? I gotta 'protect and serve', you 'Protect and serve' later. You're Okay, if you insist. But you
EVE: 'Protect and serve' later. You're Okay, if you insist. But you
CASTOR: Okay, if you insist. But you
CASTOR: So who's this Karl creep Jamie's been seeing? He's a little old for her, isn't he?
EVE: I don't know. they're about the same ages we were when we met. Remember the all-night dentist?
CASTOR: Sure, how could I forget. By the way, you never said anything about last night.
EVE: Aren't you going to get that?
EVE: Jon this is hardly the time or
EVE: Happy birthday, Matty.
EVE: He took our baby, Jon. He took our little boy.
CASTOR: Stop crying. stop crying. stop .
WANDA: You picked a helluva day to leave your beeper off!
CASTOR: What happened?
WANDA: Castor's dead!
CASTOR: He's what?
BUZZ: Somehow he escaped from Erewhon. But a prison chopper mowed him down just off Long Beach Harbor.
CASTOR: Where's the body?
WANDA: It hasn't been recovered yet.
CASTOR: 'It hasn't been recovered yet!' You people have no idea who you're dealing with! I want everyone on this, reports on the half hour, and all leads get routed through my office. Buzz, alert the L.A.P.D.
BUZZ: L.A.P.D.? Even if he is alive, Castor isn't stupid enough to come back to the city.
CASTOR: He's alive and he's already here. Move!
ARCHER: Dr. Archer please. It's an Her husband.
ARCHER: Hello, Eve I know this sounds crazy, but How did this happen, sweetie?
EVE: How did this happen, sweetie?
IRIS'S DAD: She fell off her Big-Wheel.
NURSE: Dr. Archer your husband's on Get Child Services down here and don't let her father leave. Jon? Hello?
EVE: Get Child Services down here and don't let her father leave. Jon? Hello?
ARCHER: Eve, listen carefully. The man you think is your husband Who is this?
EVE: Who is this?
ARCHER: Please, just listen! Take Jamie and go to your mother's in Santa Fe. Don't tell him where you're going just go.
EVE: Whoever you are don't call
ARCHER: I need to speak to Director Lazarro immediately. I have information about Castor Troy.
CASTOR: This is Jon Archer. Who's
ARCHER: Well, if you're Jon Archer. I guess this must be Castor Troy.
CASTOR: I've gotta hand it to you, Jon. You're doing a damn respectable job of being me. But let's face it, we both liked it better the way it was. So before the cops blow your brains out why not tell me where you are.
ARCHER: If you were really me, you'd know no discussion, no deals.
CHOLO #2: Ten bucks he's the guy who popped
CHOLO #1: 9-1-1? I want to report a stolen car and don't put me on hold!
ARCHER: No, Jon. you have to think like Castor. Where would he go.?
DIETRICH: Jon Archer. some poor schmuck's in big trouble.
ARCHER: Yeah me.
DIETRICH: Jesus Christ, Castor.
ARCHER: Drive. And punch up your cellular I need you to make some calls.
DIETRICH: You're gonna get me busted!
ARCHER: You're already busted, Dietrich. It's just a matter of time before they pick you up. Man, when you came to me about that bomb I knew I should have blown you off. but that's my fucking curse I just can't say no to a friend.
DIETRICH: Man, when you came to me about that bomb I knew I should have blown you off. but that's my fucking curse I just can't say no to a friend.
ARCHER: You can't say no to money.
DIETRICH: That's my other curse.
ARCHER: You're Castor Troy. This is your old crew you don't take shit and you don't take no for an
ALDO: Helluva place, Dietrich. So what's the big surprise?
FITCH: Are you crazy? You're going to bring the Feds down on all of us!
ARCHER: Archer doesn't want you, he wants me! But I'm going to get him first with your help.
ALDO: Archer's a damn celebrity now he's untouchable and you're You wanna face-off with Castor Troy? Come on, then! Come on! 'Cause I've had a real bad day.
ARCHER: You wanna face-off with Castor Troy? Come on, then! Come on! 'Cause I've had a real bad day.
ARCHER: You're all forgetting who the real enemy is. Six months ago, Jon Archer hauled you in for questioning. He rattled you so bad you shit your Armani suit right there in the interrogation room.
ARCHER: You laugh, Fitch the way Archer laughed at your last arraignment, when you got down on your knees and tried to blow your way to
DIETRICH: We all have a reason to hate Jon Archer. We all want to see him And nobody's untouchable if we say he's not. It's all worked out. Caz has Archer's routine down cold.
ARCHER: And nobody's untouchable if we say he's not. It's all worked out. Caz has Archer's routine down cold.
DIETRICH: It's all worked out. Caz has Archer's routine down cold.
ARCHER: We start with your basic kidnapping. Then a little I'm going to rearrange his face in a way you won't believe.
FITCH: I'm going to rearrange his face in a way you won't believe.
ARCHER: I'm going to rearrange his face in a way you won't believe.
ALDO: You're an evil bitch, Caz. But you've got balls of titanium. Count us in.
DIETRICH: Come on let's drink to it!
DIETRICH: How about one of your famous toasts, Caz?
ARCHER: To old jobs, new jobs and uh blow jobs?
LIVIA: Enough business, Caz. Let's Sorry. I don't.
ARCHER: Sorry. I don't.
LIVIA: Remember the Charger's game, Caz? The owners box? We did it four Sure I remember. Once a quarter,
ARCHER: Sure I remember. Once a quarter,
LIVIA: Caz? Are you okay? When even Castor Troy can't handle a tab of Quantrex. That, dear friends, is the first sorry whiff of old age.
DIETRICH: When even Castor Troy can't handle a tab of Quantrex. That, dear friends, is the first sorry whiff of old age.
ARCHER: Sasha Hassler. Age 35. Met Castor Troy in Austin, Texas, at Pearl Jam reunion. Uh, how you doing, baby?
SASHA: What the hell are you doing here? You're supposed to be dead.
DOWN STREET: A BMW pulls up to the curb. The THUMPING MUSIC from within GOES QUIET, but no one emerges.
JAMIE: No. Karl, please.
JAMIE: My father he's got a gun he'll he'll
KARL: ( pulls open belt ) That wimp won't do shit.
CASTOR: Who are you to call Jon Archer a
CASTOR: What are you stupid?
JAMIE: That's just like you. Some guy tries to rape me and you side with him.
CASTOR: Did it look like I was siding with him? Did it? You want to play with scummy organ grinders, you better be prepared. Do you have protection?
JAMIE: You mean like. condoms?
CASTOR: I mean like. protection.
JAMIE: For me?
CASTOR: Next time slip it in low, then twist it so the wound doesn't
CASTOR: Go on, get out of here. No wonder he spent all his time chasing me. Who can deal with this family shit?
CASTOR: No wonder he spent all his time chasing me. Who can deal with this family shit?
CASTOR: Jon Archer. Where is he?
POLLUX: ( into cell phone ) I thought he might visit some old friends of yours. And bro, if I didn't know better I'd swear this guy likes being you.
ARCHER: Uh can't we just talk?
SASHA: Talk? The only talk I ever heard from you was 'take it off,' 'sit on it,' 'I'll pay you tomorrow.' Take off the rest of those rags and get dressed. Then get out.
SASHA: Take off the rest of those rags and get dressed. Then get out.
ARCHER: Not until I finish my business with your brother.
SASHA: I told him to keep those creeps away but you're just too big an Look, if the F.B.I. finds out you've been here I'll lose my son. So please, just go.
ARCHER: I know I've done some things that made your life harder.
SASHA: How would you? You walked out and never looked back.
ARCHER: I'm not the same person you remember. And for what it's worth, I'm sorry.
ARCHER: Not a bad fit.
SASHA: They should. They're yours.
ARCHER: Nice-looking kid, too
SASHA: Of course he is. Adam, come here. I want you to meet your father.
SASHA: Adam, come here. I want you to meet your father.
CASTOR: ( into cellular ) We've got him sighted. Okay, Pollux, pull out.
BUZZ: What makes you so sure this guy's gonna set up his own brother?
CASTOR: I've never been more certain of anything. Get everyone in position. Remember shoot to
BUZZ: You heard the man let's saddle How old is he?
ARCHER: How old is he?
SASHA: Five. No one knows you're his father. I thought someone might want to hurt him just to hurt Bang! Bang! Bang!
ADAM: Bang! Bang! Bang!
SASHA: You know Mommy doesn't like you playing with these things.
SASHA: You're not holding him right.
ARCHER: He's not my son.
SASHA: Yes, he is ! Get down!
ARCHER: Get down!
OUTSIDE: across the way, Castor directs the FIREPOWER.
KITCHEN: Cindee and Fitch are caught in flagrante delicto on the floor as the kitchen is decimated by GUNFIRE.
SASHA'S BEDROOM: Coughing, Archer crawls through the roiling smoke toward the door. He's almost out when.
SASHA: Her wail of fear freezes Archer. He looks back and sees Adam in the eye of the firestorm. Archer's face betrays his conflict. A child but his worst enemy's child. BULLETS SHRED the WALL around Adam. Getting closer. Archer moves he crawls toward Adam. Just then a SWAT agent rappels in through one of the shattered windows, his weapon poised. Archer kicks him hard, pitching him back through the window. Archer grabs Adam curling him into his body. Thinking fast, he soaks his discarded T-shirt into a toppled flower vase then places it over Adam's face. Protecting him. He rushes to Sasha. Together, they barrel through the soft, paper wall and tear out an escape route.
LOWER LEVEL: Archer hustles Sasha and Adam toward the staircase FRONT DOOR explodes open. SWAT agents swarm to get in FIRING and throwing FLASH-GRENADES.
FRONT DOOR: explodes open. SWAT agents swarm to get in FIRING and throwing FLASH-GRENADES.
UPPER LEVEL: Dietrich, et al, open FIRE down on the attacking agents. Agents drop or are driven back out.
SKYLIGHT: BURSTS open and agents rappel down FIRING. Aldo's bodyguard falls, riddled, off the upper level.
LOWER LEVEL: as one agent lands, Archer knocks his gun to the floor. They grapple. As the agent reaches for it Adam appears and kicks the gun away. Just like Mommy.
SASHA: scoops up the kicked weapon and cold-cocks another rappelling agent. Then she FIRES, cutting a third rappelling agent's rope. he drops hard to the floor Still grappling, Archer rips off the agent's gas-mask.
ARCHER: Buzz's eyes reveal only hatred. He reaches for his knife. Archer hesitates, then heaves Buzz through the glass door. He pushes Adam upstairs as more agents pour in the front door.
ARCHER: Dietrich! The painting!
UPPER LEVEL: Dietrich sees the canvas mural above the breached front door and understands. He opens FIRE, cutting loose the mural. It collapses, billowing and enshrouds the attacking agents and buying time.
DIETRICH: Let's go!
UPPER LEVEL: Sasha sees Adam huddled in the middle of the glass floor the shadows of agents moving below.
SASHA: LOWER LEVEL An agent aims his shotgun at the glass floor at the "target" kneeling on top of it.
LOWER LEVEL: An agent aims his shotgun at the glass floor at the "target" kneeling on top of it.
UPPER LEVEL: Archer dives and grabs the boy as the GLASS FLOOR EXPLODES up. He rolls through a shower of glass but comes up with Adam safely. Agents and thugs FIRE blindly upward and downward through the floor desperate to hit their targets. Agents open FIRE from the girders supporting the roof cutting down Fitch's last bodyguard.
DIETRICH: They're like cockroaches!
TOP LEVEL: Dietrich leads them to the very back of the loft. He pulls open a hidden door.
DIETRICH: If we make it, we'll meet up at my Malibu place. You remember it, Off Kanan Road I know it.
ARCHER: Off Kanan Road I know it.
SASHA: Thank you, Caz. thank you.
ARCHER: Get the boy out of here.
CASTOR: It's too late, Jon. Your kid loves me. And your wife's an animal. Even I can't keep up with Tonight I'm going to make her come like Niagara Falls to celebrate your death.
CASTOR: Tonight I'm going to make her come like Niagara Falls to celebrate your death.
POLLUX: Remember me? Your 'baby brother'?
POLLUX: You tricked me into telling you things I never told anyone. Now take it to your grave.
POLLUX: Now take it to your grave.
ROTUNDA: Castor watches in horror as Pollux pancakes onto the floor at his feet.
CASTOR: Pollux is almost gone. Castor looks up and sees
ARCHER: Peering down into the rotunda.
CASTOR: OPENS FIRE Ducks the bullets as he disappears. Castor desperately holds Pollux to no avail. Pollux slips away. and dies. He turns to Loomis.
OPENS FIRE: Ducks the bullets as he disappears. Castor desperately holds Pollux to no avail. Pollux slips away. and dies. He turns to Loomis.
ARCHER: Ducks the bullets as he disappears. Castor desperately holds Pollux to no avail. Pollux slips away. and dies. He turns to Loomis.
CASTOR: Get a medic now!
LOOMIS: Forget him, sir. It's only Pollux What happened?
WANDA: What happened?
CASTOR: What the fuck do you think happened? Castor Troy just shot him! What are you waiting for? Go!
KIM: Sir you're on the cover of Time. They're calling you 'An Authentic American Hero.'
CASTOR: What is it?
LAZARRO: We were friends once, Jon, so I feel I owe it to you to tell you face-to-face. I don't care how much hype you're getting you're through. After that massacre last night, I'm ordering a full inquiry into your recent erratic and deeply suspect behavior.
CASTOR: Me 'erratic'? Victor, what are you talking about?
LAZARRO: You start meeting with Brodie and Miller. Then they die mysteriously. Your best friend is murdered and you don't seem to give a shit. Suddenly you're smoking, drinking, acting like a man with something to hide. Maybe you've been bought maybe you've lost your mind. But I promise. I'm going to find out.
CASTOR: Okay, Vic, I have a confession to make. But you aren't gonna like I'm Castor Troy.
LAZARRO: I don't understand. Now you understand.
CASTOR: Now you understand.
CASTOR: Cancel my four o'clock. And send for the paramedics. Victor Lazarro's having a heart
DISPATCHER: All units. I have a confirmed code zero-zero priority alert. Proceed at once to Parthenia Street Terminal. That's Parthenia at Nordhoff.
QUICK SHOTS: A ) MOTOR POOL
WANDA: Commander, what are you doing Where should I be? Where's everyone else?
CASTOR: Where should I be? Where's everyone else?
WANDA: Backing you up! Didn't you track Castor to the Parthenia Street You radioed in your personal security code. Nobody knows that code but you.
CASTOR: You radioed in your personal security code. Nobody knows that code but you.
WANDA: You radioed in your personal security code. Nobody knows that code but you.
CASTOR: Obviously someone else knows it! Get everybody back to their posts now!
ARCHER: The look of horror on her face snaps him back to reality. She runs, but Archer grabs her. She struggles fighting and kicking him but somehow he keeps her mouth covered.
ARCHER: I'm not going to hurt you. Just don't scream, okay?
EVE: I know you you're the one who called. You're Castor Troy. You killed my son
ARCHER: I called, but I'm not Castor. I'm your husband.
ARCHER: Now, you're going to listen. The last time we saw each other was in this room. We had a fight after I told you I had to go away. My assignment Jon Archer's assignment was to enter a federal prison as Castor Troy. How did he expect to do that?
EVE: How did he expect to do that?
ARCHER: An F.B.I. surgeon gave me Castor's face. He handled the transplant, the vocal implant, everything. But somehow Castor came out of his coma and killed everyone who knew about the mission. But not before he was transformed into me.
ARCHER: If you need hard evidence, get it. Your husband's blood type is O negative. Castor's is A.B. Remember the parachute dream? I'm falling, Eve. I'm falling.
ARCHER: Remember the parachute dream? I'm falling, Eve. I'm falling.
CASTOR: You're all in knots. Maybe another date night will help you Not tonight. I'm way behind in my Continuing Ed.
EVE: Not tonight. I'm way behind in my Continuing Ed.
CASTOR: You think I've been acting strange. Like a completely different person.
EVE: Okay, I have a confession to make. But you aren't going to like it. . I read your diary. I've been trying to change trying to be more like the man you want me to
CASTOR: Okay, I have a confession to make. But you aren't going to like it. . I read your diary. I've been trying to change trying to be more like the man you want me to
CASTOR: And to prove it, I'm taking you and Jamie away on a trip right after the memorial service.
EVE: What memorial service?
CASTOR: Victor Lazarro had a heart seizure. right in my office. It was horrible.
EVE: Oh, my God.
CASTOR: First Tito. now Victor. . please don't tell me I'm going to lose you, too.
EVE: ( returns the embrace ) Of course not.
CASTOR: What was that?
EVE: What was what?
CASTOR: Something bit me.
EVE: Probably a mosquito I'll close the window.
COP: Sorry, Dr. Archer. Where are you going at this hour?
EVE: There's been an emergency at the One of us will have to escort you.
COP: One of us will have to escort you.
EVE: ( a beat ) But please don't wake my husband. he's exhausted.
EVE: Please be O-neg. Please.
ARCHER: What are you doing? Where did you get that gun?
EVE: I took it from my fake husband.
ARCHER: Why point it at me? I'm the real I don't know that. Maybe Jon's already dead.
EVE: I don't know that. Maybe Jon's already dead.
ARCHER: What more proof do you need?
EVE: Tell me. tell me about the all- night dentist.
ARCHER: . I took a date out for chicken and ribs not knowing she was a vegetarian. When the night couldn't get worse, she broke her tooth on a pebble that got into her three-bean salad Somehow she and I had fun driving around looking for an all-night And even though it must have hurt you still kissed me.
EVE: Christ, Jon! How could you put us in this position? Do you know do you know what he did to me.?
ARCHER: Whatever happened, whatever he did I know it's my fault and I know I can never make it up to you
EVE: But you're damn well going to try. First how are we going to get you out of this?
EVE: This will knock him out for hours.
ARCHER: Good. What's his schedule He doesn't tell me anymore than you ever did. All I know is tomorrow we're going to Victor's memorial service.
EVE: He doesn't tell me anymore than you ever did. All I know is tomorrow we're going to Victor's memorial service.
ARCHER: Victor. Tito. they both died thinking I killed them. And in a way. I did.
EVE: Jon you can't think about that
ARCHER: What happens after the memorial?
EVE: He's taking Jamie and me away.
ARCHER: And neither of you will be coming back. Where's the service?
EVE: Saint Mary's-By-The-Sea.
EVE: What are you going to do?
ARCHER: Hit him with a trank dart. Once he's unconscious I'll try to get to Buzz and Wanda before the security team gets to me.
EVE: What else can I do?
ARCHER: Think up a good excuse. I don't want you or Jamie anywhere near that service.
EVE: I can cover for Jamie. But if I'm not there, he'll suspect The second you make your move, all hell's going to break loose. If I'm there beside him I can take charge. I'm his wife, remember? There's no way around it for once, you need me.
ARCHER: I've always needed you.
EVE: Jon what are the odds?
ARCHER: Terrible. But it's the best we can do with what we have. If it doesn't happen, take Jamie and don't look back.
EVE: It'll happen.
ARCHER: Do doctors travel in packs?
EVE: Only when we're golfing.
EVE: Jon! What are you doing here?
CASTOR: That's what you're going to explain to me.
EVE: Didn't the police tell you? There was an emergency.
EVE: Jon stop it! Mr. Alandro is very ill!
CASTOR: Not as ill as he's going to be.
CASTOR: Sorry. But what's a guy to think when his wife runs off in the middle of the night?
EVE: It's my fault. I should've woken you up before I left. Now please let me get back to
CASTOR: Stay here. Watch her like a hawk.
LARS: Think she knows?
CASTOR: Who cares? She's going to be dead by tonight anyway. They're all going to be dead. The wife, the kid. and the father.
ARCHER: How's the boy?
SASHA: His ears are still ringing but he'll be okay.
SASHA: The truck's all gassed up. Look, Caz, there'll be F.B.I. agents all over that place. Maybe I can talk my brother into helping 'Us'? No, Sasha believe me, this isn't your fight.
ARCHER: 'Us'? No, Sasha believe me, this isn't your fight.
ARCHER: She watches him as he walks off toward the truck.
CASTOR: Where's Jamie?
EVE: That's what I'd like to know. She stole fifty dollars from my purse and took off.
EVE: Don't act so stunned, Jon. You know how hard it is to get that girl into a dress.
CASTOR: I'll deal with her later.
EVE: Good. Because I am fed up.
PRIEST: We are here to celebrate the life of Victor Lazarro. We all know him as a man who dedicated himself to defending this great nation first, as a highly decorated admiral then, as west coast director of the F.B.I. But not all of you know what a deeply spiritual man he was. It was his wish that his Requiem Mass be performed in Latin. In Nomine Patris, et Filii et Spiritus Sancti. Amen.
ARCHER: fills the trank-dart with sedative.
PRIEST: continues the solemn ritual.
PRIEST: Domine, de morte aeterna, in die illa tremenda quando caeli movendi sunt et terra.
EVE: checks her watch. barely lifting her eyes away. Castor absently pats her knee. She's forced to return focus to the service.
ARCHER: chambers the dart, twists a knob on the range-finder, and carefully peers over the crucifix.
THROUGH SCOPE: Archer TRACKS THROUGH the mourners and FINDS Castor. As the cross-hairs neatly cube his head.
PRIEST: Requiem aeternam dona eis, Domine. Amen.
AT SERVICE: Eve stiffens as Jamie sits down.
JAMIE: Thanks anyway, Mom But I wanted to be here for you. and Dad.
ARCHER: steadies himself, re-aims the sniper rifle. He hears MOTION behind him. Someone's coming and fast. but this is his only chance. Off-balance, Archer THFFFT! The SILENCED TRANK-DART explodes from the FOLLOW DART Screaming toward Castor's neck but it goes just wide. It sinks harmlessly into the grass unnoticed during the 21-GUN SALUTE.
FOLLOW DART: Screaming toward Castor's neck but it goes just wide. It sinks harmlessly into the grass unnoticed during the 21-GUN SALUTE.
ON KNOLL: THUMP! Archer is cracked across the head. He slumps down, unconscious, as a silenced gun barrel gently enters his ear. As the saluting GUNS FIRE in the b.g. we don't know when, or if, this pistol fires.
PRIEST: The admiral's family will now take his ashes to the sea. Lars take Jamie, bring the car around, then meet us at that
CASTOR: ( into headset ) Lars take Jamie, bring the car around, then meet us at that
EVE: Wanda I need to talk to you.
WANDA: ( reads her face ) Sure. what's wrong? Never mind
EVE: Never mind
CASTOR: Come on, baby. I've got a surprise for you. Look who we caught creeping around Castor Troy.
CASTOR: Look who we caught creeping around Castor Troy.
EVE: Why is he here?
CASTOR: Before I turn him in, I thought we'd pay him back for everything he's put us through.
CASTOR: Come on, baby. Join the fun
CASTOR: Too bad. Part of me was hoping you didn't know.
CASTOR: Did you really think it would be that easy, you dumb fucks? Sorry, baby. Castor Troy is about to murder you and our daughter. but I promise you won't die This is between you and me. Leave them out of this.
ARCHER: This is between you and me. Leave them out of this.
CASTOR: It was between you and me. Even your little boy that wasn't supposed to happen. But you couldn't let it go.
ARCHER: No father could.
CASTOR: Appealing to my sense of 'family' won't work, Jon. I thought you knew me better than that I know some things that even you don't know, Caz. You have a son. I've met him. His name is Adam.
ARCHER: I know some things that even you don't know, Caz. You have a son. I've met him. His name is Adam.
CASTOR: I imagine I've got a dozen kids so what? No more head games. First your wife dies. Then your daughter. Then you.
CASTOR: Just one big happy family.
CASTOR: Dietrich Aldo Sasha?
DIETRICH: That's right, Archer. Now drop
LARS: Don't fucking move.
SASHA: Caz are you okay?
CASTOR: You're making a mistake. I'm Castor he's Archer. Sasha, baby just give me a minute to That's pathetic, Archer. But then, your terrible sense of humor is legendary.
SASHA: That's pathetic, Archer. But then, your terrible sense of humor is legendary.
ALDO: ( cocks GUN ) It's pay-back time.
ARCHER: Find Jamie!
EVE: Jamie? Jamie!
SASHA: . Help Adam. don't let him end up like us.
DIETRICH: Sasha !
WANDA: We heard gunshots
EVE: Wanda, I've got to tell you something. Something crazy.
ARCHER: Give up, Castor. People are going to find out.
CASTOR: Not if I kill you first.
CASTOR: Give it here, Jamie.
ARCHER: No, Jamie. Don't do it!
ARCHER: Listen to my voice, Jamie. I'm your father.
CASTOR: It's a trick, Jamie. I'm your
CASTOR: Shoot him, Jamie.
ARCHER: Shoot him!
CASTOR: Shoot him!
CASTOR: You dunce. No kid of mine would miss so badly.
CASTOR: Just saving the taxpayers the cost of a trial. So take a hike.
WANDA: You're both under arrest until a D.N.A. test proves who's who.
CASTOR: I'm ordering you to back off!
WANDA: Put the gun down
BUZZ: ( beat ) Can't blame me for trying.
CASTOR: ( beat ) Can't blame me for trying.
CASTOR: Say goodbye to Daddy
OUTSIDE GATE: As Castor turns and staggers away he runs smack into a confused security agent.
CASTOR: Give me your weapon now!
BOATYARD: Archer and Eve make sure Jamie's okay.
JAMIE: ( to Archer ) Who are you? Will someone please tell me what's going on?
CASTOR: limps away from the boatyard, towards the slips alive with sunbathers and yachters.
BOAT CAPTAIN: Hey !
CASTOR'S POV: Archer running down the dock toward the adjoining boat.
CASTOR: FIRES peppering the dock. Archer knocks the boat owner to safety as the BAIT HOUSE BLOWS UP behind him. Archer rolls into the boat
ARCHER: FIRES UP the second BOAT in pursuit. Castor BLASTS back SHATTERING Archer's BOAT COMPASS.
CIVILIAN BOAT: speeds toward him causing a near-miss.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Running parallel, Archer and Castor BLAST at EACH OTHER at point-blank range. Their boats smash and pound each A police boat closes in on them. Castor FIRES at the police obliterating both crew and boat. The POLICE BOAT'S rear SMASHES into Archer's Archer's BOAT plows up and through the other. EXPLOSION! Momentum carries Archer across and back into the The boat lands right next to Castor's. Archer and Castor resume their battering. approaching pulling a barge. Castor forces Archer into its path. At the last Archer leaps onto the bow of Castor's boat as KA-BOOM! Archer's boat crashes into the BARGE which
TUG: pulling a barge. Castor forces Archer into its path. At the last Archer leaps onto the bow of Castor's boat as KA-BOOM! Archer's boat crashes into the BARGE which
CASTOR: swerves wildly trying to throw Archer off. Archer can only watch as Castor reaches for another clip. But the boat hits a wave. Castor loses the gun which skids away. Archer slips, his head hanging over the side. Castor tries to ram Archer, but he pulls himself up just in time. Castor grabs the anchor swings it. WHUNK! It sinks into the deck beside Archer but the chain is around his neck. As Castor tries to strangle him Archer headbutts Castor, who reels snagging his leg around the chain. Castor falls back plunging toward the water. Archer tries to hold Castor up. as the boat speeds Archer yanks Castor back onto the deck as the BOAT BOUNCES OFF the pier pilings. But as they slug it out.
PIER: Archer yanks Castor back onto the deck as the BOAT BOUNCES OFF the pier pilings. But as they slug it out.
ANOTHER ANGLE: WHAM! The BOAT careens off a piling and ROARS straight for the shipyard. COLLIDING with a shoreline The BOAT FLIPS, stern over bow. Archer and Castor go flying. onto the beach.
CASTOR: You won't shoot me, Jon. I'm Okay, I have a confession to make. but you aren't gonna like it. You're right, I won't shoot you. Not in the face anyway.
ARCHER: Okay, I have a confession to make. but you aren't gonna like it. You're right, I won't shoot you. Not in the face anyway.
CASTOR: It'll never be over, Jon. every time you look in the mirror. you'll see my face.
ANOTHER ANGLE: The chopper lands. Buzz and Wanda rush over.
BUZZ: You okay, Archer?
ARCHER: What did you call me?
WANDA: He called you 'Archer' sir.
EVE: Hang on, Jon. they're bringing in their top surgical team from
ARCHER: ( re: Castor ) How is he?
EVE: No life signs at all. He's a That's what they always say.
ARCHER: That's what they always say.
WANDA: I'm sorry, Eve. You can't come. Take her home.
EVE: But he's my husband!
WANDA: But he works for us.
JAMIE: Will Dad be Dad again?
EVE: I hope so, honey.
JAMIE: And you guys say my life is screwed up.
JAMIE: I'm sorry I shot you, Dad. Am I
ARCHER: I have something to ask you to ask both of you.
ARCHER: This is Adam. He needs a place to live. just for a little while.
EVE: How was your first day back?
EVE: Archer stands up revealing Castor's face in the bathroom mirror. Eve chokes back a scream. Archer turns and faces her with his true face. He sees her terrified expression, turns back to the mirror and sees his own face looking at him. But he He embraces Eve. holds her tight. She responds, happy to have him home again. We STAY ON his familiar smile Writers : Mike Werb Michael Colleary
THE END: Writers : Mike Werb Michael Colleary
