KATE: I got you a few necessities. Kate hands Jack a new copy of Vonnegut’s “Cat’s Your copy was a mess. Jack accepts the book but he’s unable to take his eyes off Kate. She hands him a cassette.
JACK: All in one tape?
KATE: I also put side two of London Calling on there. Kate leans over and kisses him passionately on the That was not officially the goodbye kiss. It was just an interim kiss. He looks at her, his eyes welling up. He pulls her close, kissing her deeply. Then.
KATE: You have your ticket? Jack pulls out a BLUE PAN AM TICKET ENVELOPE. Kate nods. They embrace and kiss again. As they separate.
JACK: I’m not even gonna say it, Kate. Maybe it’ll be like I never left. Jack takes one lastlook at her, then heads for the Kate stands there, watching him go. Then. .a moment of intuition. Something isn’t right. She looks at Jack, about to disappear into the jetway, trying to decide.
KATE: Jack turns. Kate approaches him.
JACK: About the plane? What do you think it’s gonna crash? Don’t say that.
KATE: ( shaking her head ) I know we’ve talked about this a thousand times and we both agree that going to London is the right thing to do. But in my heart. this feels wrong. She looks at the gate.the last few passengers are boarding, then back into Jack’s eyes.
JACK: You mean don’t go at all? What about my internship?
KATE: Believe me I know what an incredible opportunity this is for you.
JACK: For us, Kate.
KATE: Right, for us. But.I’m afraid that if you get on that plane.
JACK: Kate looks at him, pleading with her eyes, but she can’t His eyes narrow as he measures her determination.
KATE: ( torn ) Go. I’m sorry, you should just ( thinking, then. ) No, you’re right. What are we We're being responsible. Go. Get on the plane. His eyes narrow as he measures her determination.
JACK: ( thinking, then. ) No, you’re right. What are we We're being responsible. Go. Get on the plane. His eyes narrow as he measures her determination.
KATE: We're being responsible. Go. Get on the plane. His eyes narrow as he measures her determination.
JACK: ( resolute ) Okay, I'm going. He takes her in his arms one last time and hugs her tight. Jack looks toward the gate, the line disappearing.Kate grasps his shirt tightly.
KATE: I can't seem to let go of You hear me complaining about A sober look in Jack's eyes.
JACK: You hear me complaining about A sober look in Jack's eyes.
KATE: You want to do something great, Jack? Let's flush the plan.start our lives right now, today.I don't know what that life's gonna look like but I do know it has both of us in it. And I choose us. Jack is jolted by her words.
JACK: I love you, Kate. .a smile from Kate.relief.then.
PAULA: ( holding up toothbrush ) A playful smile from Paula.
JACK: It's not what you think. I took Mentadent public. Paula smiles, moves over to a chair and grabs a little black dress hanging neatly over it.
PAULA: Did you really mean what you said about Tuscany?
JACK: Of course I did.
PAULA: Last night was great.
JACK: You are an amazing lover. You should be giving motivational Thanks. You're not bad Jack grabs his Frank Mueller watch from the night stand, puts it on his wrist. He looks at Paula as she slips the dress on.
PAULA: Thanks. You're not bad Jack grabs his Frank Mueller watch from the night stand, puts it on his wrist. He looks at Paula as she slips the dress on.
JACK: I want to see you again.
PAULA: I'd like that, too.
JACK: She turns to him.
PAULA: It's Christmas Eve, Jack.
JACK: So we'll get egg nog. Paula laughs.
PAULA: ( putting on her shoes )
JACK: Jersey? You know what the traffic's gonna be like?
PAULA: I'm taking the train. Paula approaches Jack, leaning over him, her long hair dangling on his chest.
JACK: I've got plenty of places to He stays there, confident, sexy, waiting for an ( a sexy laugh, then. ) Maybe I can try and sneak away some time tomorrow morning. ( kissing him on the lips ) ( coy ) If it's something you feel strongly about.
PAULA: ( a sexy laugh, then. ) ( kissing him on ( coy )
JACK: ( coy )
PAULA: It was nice meeting you, Jack.
JACK: ( a charming smile )
MRS. PETERSON: Hello Jack. You don’t have to stop singing on my account.
JACK: It’s because I’m shy, Betty. So, when are you going to leave that old corpse Mr. Peterson and run away with me?
MRS. PETERSON: You know you could never satisfy me the way he The doors open to the lobby. Mrs. Peterson walks out 8 INT. JACK’S BUILDING, LOBBY - MORNING TONY THE DOORMAN holds the door open for Jack and Mrs. TONY THE DOORMAN Merry Christmas, Mr. How’d you do this year, TONY THE DOORMAN About four grand. And a bottle of twenty five year old scotch from Mrs. Johnson in 9D. I’m putting it all in commercial paper like you Just until the Deutsche Mark turns. Jack exits the building.
JACK: How’d you do this year, TONY THE DOORMAN About four grand. And a bottle of twenty five year old scotch from Mrs. Johnson in 9D. I’m putting it all in commercial paper like you Just until the Deutsche Mark turns. Jack exits the building.
JACK: Just until the Deutsche Mark turns. Jack exits the building.
JACK: .if MedTech's shares sink any lower than. ( casually executing a keystroke ) .forty three, we're in trouble with the stock valuation. So for god's sake watch what you say to your institutional customers. Jack notices Alan Mintz playing with the cherub.
ALAN: Sorry, Jack. I told Dee and the kids I'd be home by dinner. You know, it being Christmas Eve and all.
JACK: Is that tonight? A LAUGH from the group. Jack approaches Alan.
ALAN: I don't know. Maybe. Another LAUGH. Even Jack lets out a good-natured Okay, maybe I do have a touch of tunnel vision this holiday season. But in two days we're going to announce one of the largest mergers in U.S. corporate history. Thirty billion dollars. ( basking in the glory ) When this kind of deal turns up you get on and you ride it `till it's over. You don't ask it for a vacation. A chuckle from the group.the esprit de corps seems to energize Jack.
JACK: Okay, maybe I do have a touch of tunnel vision this holiday season. But in two days we're going to announce one of the largest mergers in U.S. corporate history. Thirty billion dollars. ( basking in the glory ) When this kind of deal turns up you get on and you ride it `till it's over. You don't ask it for a vacation. A chuckle from the group.the esprit de corps seems to energize Jack.
ALAN: You're right, Jack. Sorry. Jack approaches Alan.
JACK: I don't want you to be sorry, Alan, I want you to be excited. I want my gift to be the first one you open this year. You know why?
ALAN: Why Jack?
JACK: Because my gift comes with ten zeroes at the end. A MURMUR of excitement in the room, even Alan cracks a smile. Jack puts a hand on Alan's shoulder.
ADELLE: Only eight thirty? What's the matter, had some last minute shopping to do? Jack pops a peppermint Lifesaver in his mouth as Adelle hands him his messages.
JACK: You too? This holiday's about giving, Adelle. And I'm giving everything I've got to this deal, so in a way, I'm more Christmassy than ( holding out the candy ) ( ignoring the candy ) You're a ray of sunshine, They approach an office, the words, "Jack Campbell - President" stenciled on the glass.
ADELLE: ( ignoring the candy ) They approach an office, the words, "Jack Campbell - President" stenciled on the glass.
ADELLE: Oh, and Oxxford called.
JACK: Ooh, my suits are ready. He gets to the last message, sees the name on it, and reels back.
ADELLE: Her assistant said you could call her at home after eight. Jack stares at the message like he's looking at a Her assistant?
JACK: Her assistant?
ADELLE: Yeah Jack, her assistant.
JACK: ( lost in the message )
ADELLE: ( a hearty LAUGH )
JACK: ( snapping out of it )
ADELLE: Excuse me?
JACK: She didn't want me to go to London. We're standing at the airport saying goodbye and she asks me to stay.
ADELLE: So you left her? Just like God, no. I thought about it for practically the entire Stop Jack, I'm getting all I took the road less traveled, And look where it's led you. ( picking up the phone ) I'm gonna get her on the Jack pauses, focused on the message, his mind drifting Adelle begins dialing the number. Finally, Jack reaches out and hangs up the phone.
JACK: God, no. I thought about it for practically the entire Stop Jack, I'm getting all I took the road less traveled, And look where it's led you. ( picking up the phone ) I'm gonna get her on the Jack pauses, focused on the message, his mind drifting Adelle begins dialing the number. Finally, Jack reaches out and hangs up the phone.
ADELLE: Stop Jack, I'm getting all I took the road less traveled, And look where it's led you. ( picking up the phone ) I'm gonna get her on the Jack pauses, focused on the message, his mind drifting Adelle begins dialing the number. Finally, Jack reaches out and hangs up the phone.
JACK: I took the road less traveled, And look where it's led you. ( picking up the phone ) I'm gonna get her on the Jack pauses, focused on the message, his mind drifting Adelle begins dialing the number. Finally, Jack reaches out and hangs up the phone.
ADELLE: And look where it's led you. ( picking up the phone ) I'm gonna get her on the Jack pauses, focused on the message, his mind drifting Adelle begins dialing the number. Finally, Jack reaches out and hangs up the phone.
JACK: No?! You almost married this woman. Aren't you even curious what she wants?
ADELLE: No?! You almost married this woman. Aren't you even curious what she wants?
JACK: She's probably just having a fit of nostalgia. You know, lonely Christmas Eve, call the one that got away, that kind of thing. Adelle rolls her eyes at him.
LASSITER: Eight forty-five on Christmas Eve and Jack Campbell is still at his desk. There's a Hallmark moment for you. Lassiter heads to the bar like he's done it a million Peter. I don't see you rushing home to trim the tree.
JACK: Peter. I don't see you rushing home to trim the tree.
LASSITER: ( pouring himself Lassiter drops down in a soft leather chair opposite ( sipping the scotch )
JACK: And God love you for it. Lassiter drops down in a soft leather chair opposite ( sipping the scotch ) I just got a call from Terry Haight. Bob Thomas is That'll happen when you're about to spend thirty billion dollars on some aspirin.
LASSITER: ( sipping the scotch )
JACK: That'll happen when you're about to spend thirty billion dollars on some aspirin.
LASSITER: Someone's gonna have to nurse him through this.
JACK: Why are you staring at my breasts, Peter?
LASSITER: I need you, tiger..
JACK: Where is he?
LASSITER: Jack pauses for a beat.
JACK: ( to Adelle ) Adelle rolls her eyes at him.
LASSITER: You're a credit to capitalism, Jack glances at Adelle, then looks back at Lassiter.
JACK: Hey Peter, lemme ask you a question. An old girlfriend calls you out of the blue on Christmas Eve.
LASSITER: You suddenly having trouble getting dates?
JACK: Not by a long shot.
LASSITER: Then leave it in the past. Old flames are like old tax returns. You keep `em in the file cabinet for three years and then you cut `em loose. Jack shoots Adelle a satisfied smile, crumpling up Kate's message and tossing a perfect hook into a N.Y. Knicks hoop.
JACK: ( to Adelle )
ADELLE: That'll be a nice little holiday treat.
FRANK: Mr. Campbell. Why didn't you call down, I would've had Joe get your ride. Jack looks outside the front door to the snowy, quiet I'm thinking I might walk tonight, Frank.
JACK: I'm thinking I might walk tonight, Frank.
FRANK: Nice night for it. I'll have Louis send your car home. A nod from Jack.
JACK: Thanks. To you too. Jack puts on a pair of soft leather gloves and heads out into the crisp night air.
CASH: Oh yeah.yeah, yee-ah! She's a certified winner.paper- thin but good as gold. Jack notices Cash talking to himself, seemingly crazy. Jack approaches Sam Wong at the counter.
JACK: Egg nog?
SAM WONG: ( pointing )
CASH: ( in the b.g., to Jack grabs a carton of egg nog, then notices Cash handing Sam Wong his ticket. Jack heads back toward the counter.
SAM WONG: ( barely looking
CASH: What're you talkin' about?
SAM WONG: ( throwing the ticket The woman with the baby looks over.the college kid looks up, nervous.the drunken Santa, bottle of bourbon in hand, starts to walk by Jack.Jack instinctively puts an arm out, holding the Santa
CASH: What!? Look at the ticket.!
SAM WONG: Get out, I call 911. The Santa looks at Jack, confused.
CASH: You're lookin' at me, you're not even lookin' at the The woman with the baby puts a loaf of bread back on the shelf, starts nervously inching toward the door.
SAM WONG: You leave now. Take ticket somewhere else. ( calling out ) Next customer in line.!
CASH: You first generation, xenophobic, money-theistic, hot pastrami sandwich SAM WONG ( screaming ) Get out! Just watching.Cash shoves the ticket in Sam Wong's LOOK AT THE GODDAMN TICKET!! A moment of decision for Jack. Then.
SAM WONG: ( screaming ) Just watching.Cash shoves the ticket in Sam Wong's A moment of decision for Jack. Then.
CASH: LOOK AT THE GODDAMN TICKET!! A moment of decision for Jack. Then.
JACK: ( carefully ) Cash turns to Jack.
CASH: ( menacing ) Jack looks at the woman, the college kid, the Santa, Now Cash walks over to Jack.
JACK: Maybe I'll buy it from you. Now Cash walks over to Jack.
CASH: Guy in $2,000 suit gets ass kicked tryin' to be a hero. Film at eleven. ( then.turning to the coffee machine ) What?! Oh no, not another lookie-loo. You know how big a job this is? The patrons exchange nervous glances.Jack watches, CASH ( CONT'D ) You're double bookin' me! You're gonna get double billed! Shit! Cash throws a bottle of Perrier against the wall, it SHATTERS. The woman reels back in terror with the Hey, c'mon. In a flash, Cash whips a .38 from the back of his pants, aiming it at Jack's face. The woman SCREAMS, covers her baby.
JACK: Hey, c'mon. In a flash, Cash whips a .38 from the back of his pants, aiming it at Jack's face. The woman SCREAMS, covers her baby.
CASH: ( in Jack's face ) Jack stares at Cash, trying his best to keep his ( a smile )
JACK: ( a smile )
CASH: ( a smile )
JACK: Look, I'm talking about a business deal here. I buy the ticket for two hundred, take it to a store where the guy behind the counter. ( glaring at Sam Wong ) .doesn't have a death wish ( back to Cash ) .I just made myself a quick thirty eight dollars. Cash gets closer.
CASH: Damn, you are the real Cash narrows his eyes.then, a smile as he puts the gun back into his pants.
JACK: How'd you know my name was I call all you white guys Jack nods.
CASH: I call all you white guys Jack nods.
JACK: There's no way I was gonna die in that deli. ( off Cash's look ) Let's just say I've been on a lucky streak lately.
CASH: ( a big LAUGH ) Jack hands him the money.
JACK: I don't do that. That's just not for me. Cash looks at him, then smiles.
CASH: Okay, Jack. Nice doing business with you. Cash is about to take off.
JACK: Cash turns around.
CASH: You want to talk about regrets, you're talking to the wrong person. Jack casually takes the egg nog out of the bag, opens the carton.
JACK: I'm just saying that you seem like a smart guy. At a certain point you're gonna do something, and then there's no turning back.
CASH: Yeah, in most cases that'd be Jack takes a sip of the egg nog.
JACK: I mean there must be programs out there, opportunities.
CASH: ( a deep laugh ) A look from Jack.
JACK: Everyone needs something. Cash looks at Jack.
CASH: Yeah? What do you need?
JACK: You just said everyone needs I've got everything I need.
CASH: You just said everyone needs I've got everything I need.
JACK: I've got everything I need.
CASH: Wow. It must be great being you. You got it all. Cash looks at Jack. He smiles and shakes his head.
JACK: Look, I'm not saying you'd be able to do it without some hard work.
CASH: ( a hearty LAUGH )
JACK: Sure it's about you. But it's about society, too.
CASH: Oh man, I'm gonna enjoy this one. Just remember, Jack, you did this. You brought this on yourself. And with that, Cash turns and leaves Jack alone on the street with his egg nog.
KATE: Mmmm.ten more minutes, Jack. it’s Christmas. Jack jumps as he hears Kate talk for the first time. Suddenly, the door bursts open.A SIX YEAR OLD GIRL, ANNIE, in a little nightgown, walks into the room carrying an 18 MONTH OLD BOY, JOSH, SINGING at the top of her lungs.
ANNIE: Jingle bells, Santa s mells, Rudolph laid an egg.la la la, la-la la la, la la la la la. Annie places Josh on the bed and then jumps up herself. She gestures to the dog, patting the bed.
KATE: ( stirring ) Jack looks at this activity like a man at his own ( groggy ) Josh crawls directly up to Jack’s stomach, climbing She said “Dad.” That’s it. Jack moves the baby gingerly over, then gets out of bed, stumbling over a baseball bat lying next to it. He picks up the bat.the same Willie Mays autograph bat that was encased in glass in his N.Y. apartment. Frightened, Jack drops the bad, looking down at himself for the first time.he’s naked. .a mortified look on his face as he sees the kids on the bed. .he quickly grabs a pair of sweat pants and a yellow cardigan off the chair and throws them on. Kate, still half asleep, reaches out her hand.
ANNIE: Mom, don’t you think we need to open the ( groggy ) Mommy needs five more minutes in la la land. That could be her Josh crawls directly up to Jack’s stomach, climbing C’mon, Dad. Get up! She said “Dad.” That’s it. Jack moves the baby gingerly over, then gets out of bed, stumbling over a baseball bat lying next to it. He picks up the bat.the same Willie Mays autograph bat that was encased in glass in his N.Y. apartment. Frightened, Jack drops the bad, looking down at himself for the first time.he’s naked. .a mortified look on his face as he sees the kids on the bed. .he quickly grabs a pair of sweat pants and a yellow cardigan off the chair and throws them on. Kate, still half asleep, reaches out her hand.
KATE: ( groggy ) Josh crawls directly up to Jack’s stomach, climbing She said “Dad.” That’s it. Jack moves the baby gingerly over, then gets out of bed, stumbling over a baseball bat lying next to it. He picks up the bat.the same Willie Mays autograph bat that was encased in glass in his N.Y. apartment. Frightened, Jack drops the bad, looking down at himself for the first time.he’s naked. .a mortified look on his face as he sees the kids on the bed. .he quickly grabs a pair of sweat pants and a yellow cardigan off the chair and throws them on. Kate, still half asleep, reaches out her hand.
ANNIE: C’mon, Dad. Get up! She said “Dad.” That’s it. Jack moves the baby gingerly over, then gets out of bed, stumbling over a baseball bat lying next to it. He picks up the bat.the same Willie Mays autograph bat that was encased in glass in his N.Y. apartment. Frightened, Jack drops the bad, looking down at himself for the first time.he’s naked. .a mortified look on his face as he sees the kids on the bed. .he quickly grabs a pair of sweat pants and a yellow cardigan off the chair and throws them on. Kate, still half asleep, reaches out her hand.
KATE: Jack turns by instinct. Kate grabs him, drawing him near. A look of fear on his face as Kate opens her Eye contact.Jack’s certain he’s about to hear her She lets him go as Jack backs out the door.
JACK: ( drawing on a Big Ed hugs Jack as best he can with an armful of Lorraine plants a big fat kiss on Jack’s cheek.
BIG ED: Jack you ol’ bird dog. Merry Christmas to ya’. Lorraine plants a big fat kiss on Jack’s cheek.
LORRAINE: Talk to him, Jack. Please. One day a year away from the Ponderosa. I don’t think that’s too much to ask.
BIG ED: I heard that. This is who I am, woman! ( a wink to Jack ) Tell her, Jack! You’re the only one who gets me, for god’s sake! Jack, still holding the door open, plotting his escape.
LORRAINE: I need some egg nog.
BIG ED: ‘Course you do. Hell, it’s almost 8 a.m. ( shouting upstairs ) Where are my two l’il pardners? Annie! Josh! Giddy up, Bid Ed’s here!
JACK: Excuse me. Jack dashes out the door.
LORRAINE: Where are you going, ( to Big Ed ) Where’s he going?
BIG ED: Damned if I know. They start to remove their coats, when. The door flies back open.
JACK: Where’s my car?! Where’s my Ferrari!?
BIG ED: What the hell are you talking about? ( to Lorraine ) What’s he talking about?
JACK: Look, can I just borrow your car?! I promise it’ll be returned!
BIG ED: The Caddy? Why don’t you take your own damn car!
LORRAINE: Oh just let him borrow your precious Cadillac, for god’s sake. Jack spots a set of keys hanging on a hook.
BIG ED: He’s got a perfectly good mini-van sitting out there in the driveway! Jack grabs the keys off the hook.darts back outside.
JACK: Tony, thank god. Jack starts to walk past but Tony blocks the way.
JACK: What are you talking about? It’s me, Jack Campbell. Penthouse C. I put you into commercial TONY THE DOORMAN ( not moving ) Just then, Mrs. Peterson walks to the door with her little DOG. Tony opens the door for her.
JACK: Elizabeth Peterson! The little dog starts BARKING ferociously at Jack.
MRS. PETERSON: ( to Tony re: Tony shrugs his shoulders.
JACK: You know me, Betty. You do. Jack Campbell. We’re on the co-op board together. We fought side by side for garbage disposals. Every morning we exchange quasi-sexual witty banter. Think. She looks at Jack with a raised eyebrow, the dog still
MRS. PETERSON: ( raising a hand ( a sigh of relief )
JACK: ( a sigh of relief )
MRS. PETERSON: And sleep you shall. Noblesse oblige is not dead. Not yet anyway.Come, let’s get you some help. Surely there must be a shelter somewhere in this city.
JACK: A shelter?! I’m the richest guy in the building.I’ve got twice the square footage you Mrs. Peterson shakes her head at him, a look of pity on her face. Frustrated, Jack turns and runs back to the mini-van.
FRANK: Whoa, whoa, whoa.hold it right there.
JACK: Frank. Where’s Alan Mintz? Is he here yet?
FRANK: Mr. Mintz? ( a knowing chuckle ) I don’t think so.building’s closed pal. You’ll have to come back tomorrow.
JACK: Look, I don’t know what’s going on here but I am Senior Vice President of this company.
FRANK: I don’t care who you are. It’s Christmas and like I told you the building is closed.
JACK: Maybe you’re not hearing me. I am Jack ( approaching the building directory ) Right here. Jack Campbell, President. And then he sees it.”ALAN MINTZ - PRESIDENT,” listed plain as day on the building director. Jack looks at Frank, then back to the building A pitying look from Frank.Jack stands there, in CHAPTER FIVE - WHAT’S HAPPENING? 32 EXT. LASSITER BUILDING, PLAZA - MOMENTS LATER .it’s desolate. Jack walks through the plaza like a zombie, his face registering nothing. He crosses the street, moving toward the mini-van.oblivious.when. SCREECH.a Ferrari 456M stops within inches of Jack’s torso.a VOICE from the car.
VOICE: You almost dented my two hundred thousand dollar Jack.still stunned.looks at the car, very familiar.the voice of the driver, also familiar.
CASH: Miss me, Jack?
JACK: That’s my car! You stole my car!
CASH: It’s a callable asset seized in accordance with the acquisition by-laws of your alt-fate Basically, it’s my car now. Get in. Cash reaches over and opens the door. Jack CASH ( CONT’D ) Look, I don’t make the rules, Jack. This is how it works. Get in. Cash gives him a reassuring look. Jack gets in.
JACK: Basically, it’s my car now. Get in. Cash reaches over and opens the door. Jack CASH ( CONT’D ) Look, I don’t make the rules, Jack. This is how it works. Get in. Cash gives him a reassuring look. Jack gets in.
CASH: Basically, it’s my car now. Get in. Cash reaches over and opens the door. Jack CASH ( CONT’D ) Look, I don’t make the rules, Jack. This is how it works. Get in. Cash gives him a reassuring look. Jack gets in.
CASH: Might wanna fasten your seat belt, Jack.
JACK: ( recovering ) Jack’s freaking out and Cash is enjoying every minute of it. Cash hands Jack a paper bag. Jack starts breathing into the bag.
CASH: This kinda thing makes a lotta guys throw up. Seen it happen. So if you get the urge, do it out the window. ( with a taunting laugh ) I don’t want you marring this exquisite leather Cash looks over at Jack.he’s really losing it, sobbing into the bag.almost hyperventilating.Cash CASH ( CONT’D ) Look, I don’t know what you’re getting so worked up about, you did this.you brought this on yourself.
JACK: Brought what on myself?! I didn’t do anything!
CASH: No? C’mon, Jack.I’ve got everything I need, I don’t have regrets, that’s just not for me. sound familiar?
JACK: You mean because you thought I was cocky I’m now on a permanent acid Cash gets a laugh out of Jack’s overreaction.
CASH: Everyone else in that store is a statue, they see their lives passing in front of their eyes, but not you. You’re making a business deal.
JACK: ( enraged )
CASH: You? What about me? I’m working hard for you here, Jack. On Christmas too! Now you did a good thing last night, intervening that way. I was moved.
JACK: ( interrupting ) Cash turns to Jack.
CASH: It’s a glimpse, Jacko.
JACK: I glimpse? A glimpse of what!? What glimpse?! Look, eventually, everybody gets one.some of ‘em take a couple ( looking at Jack ) .some of ‘em take a lot I asked you a direct question! A glimpse of A look from Cash.
CASH: Look, eventually, everybody gets one.some of ‘em take a couple ( looking at Jack ) .some of ‘em take a lot I asked you a direct question! A glimpse of A look from Cash.
JACK: I asked you a direct question! A glimpse of A look from Cash.
CASH: Figure it out. You got plenty of time.
JACK: How much time?!
CASH: As long as it takes to figure it out. Which, in your case, could be Look, I just want my life back. Now what’s it gonna take? You wanna talk turkey? Let’s talk turkey! How much Cash looks at Jack, relishing the moment. He flashes Jack a smile.
JACK: Look, I just want my life back. Now what’s it gonna take? You wanna talk turkey? Let’s talk turkey! How much Cash looks at Jack, relishing the moment. He flashes Jack a smile.
CASH: Do I look like I need your money. It doesn’t work like that and I can’t tell you why.
JACK: Why not?
CASH: Because you got to figure it out for yourself. ( beat ) Are you listening to me?
JACK: Figure it out? Figure what out?! Cash just stares at him.
CASH: Look Jack, in my experience the best way people deal with this is to just relax and breathe through it.let it come to you. Jack faces Cash, simmering.with frustration.
JACK: Look, I don’t have time for this right now. I’m in the middle of a Oh you’re working on a new deal now.did I mention that?
CASH: Oh you’re working on a new deal now.did I mention that?
JACK: You know what? I’ve had it with you. I’ve had it with all of this shit. SCREECH.Cash slams on the brakes.practically sending Jack through the windshield. Jack recovers, looks up.the car is parked right next to the mini-van. Cash pulls out a small plastic bag, holding it out to Jack looks inside the bag, pulls out a BARBIE BICYCLE BELL. He looks at it curiously.
CASH: Jack looks inside the bag, pulls out a BARBIE BICYCLE BELL. He looks at it curiously.
JACK: What’s this, a signal? Will you come whenever I ring it?
CASH: Do I look like I live in a bottle? Cash reaches across Jack and opens the door.
JACK: ( lost )
CASH: Look Jack I’m late. I’d love to help you out some more but I gotta go handle my business. ( gesturing to the mini-van ) Happy trails. Jack looks out to the lonely street outside, then back to Cash.
JACK: Hey, you did this to me, you can’t just leave me like this. Cash looks at Jack, the desperation on his face.
CASH: Fine. You want to know everything, I’ll tell you everything. But not here. Let’s get some Jack’s still a little unsure.he sees Cash open the driver side door.
JACK: ( relieved ) Jack gets out of the car.and before he can even turn around, Cash’s door SLAMS shut and the car takes off in a blast of horsepower. Jack stands there gazing down the street, listening to the sound of the Ferrari shifting gears, The wind whips up.shivering, Jack looks toward the Lassiter Building, then to the plastic bag in his hand, and finally to the mini-van.
JACK: Excuse me. Do you know where Merrison Street is? Arnie looks up and sees Jack in the van.
ARNIE: ( turning to his wife )
ARNIE: You look terrible. Jack takes in the decor – it’s a male leisure time fantasy – old pinball machine, wide screen TV, dart board, and kitschy ‘50s style bamboo bar.
JACK: ( with a nod ) A satisfied smile from Arnie, Jack’s approval means something to him.
ARNIE: You and me, buddy. We know how to live. Arnie shepherds Jack onto a bar stool and pours a drink out of a bamboo bottle holder.
JACK: We’re friends, aren’t we?
ARNIE: Maybe I don’t say it enough but you moving in next door to me. Arnie makes a fist and gestures to his heart. Jack ARNIE ( CONT’D ) Talk to me. A moment of decision for Jack as Arnie stands there, open eyed, ready to listen.
JACK: I’m having kind of a bad ( nodding ) I read somewhere that the suicide rate doubles during the holidays. A raised eyebrow from Jack.
ARNIE: ( nodding ) A raised eyebrow from Jack.
JACK: Is it.?
ARNIE: Trouble at work?
JACK: I don’t think so.
ARNIE: It’s not Kate, is it? Jack pauses at the mention of Kate. Arnie’s eyes ARNIE ( CONT’D ) ( proudly ) You see, it’s like we’re in each other’s heads.
JACK: Kate’s my wife. Jack looks at Arnie as if he’s seeking confirmation.
ARNIE: ( a playful smile ) Arnie comes out from behind the bar, taking Jack by the
ARNIE: Look, you fit the profile exactly. Thirties, house, kids, financial responsibilities. You start thinking.this isn’t the life I dreamt about. Where’s the romance, where’s the joie de vivre? Suddenly, every lingerie ad in the Newark Star Ledger represents a life you can’t have.
JACK: ( thinking, then. ) A chuckle from Arnie.
ARNIE: You made a choice, Jack, a promise to your wife. Maybe sometimes it seems like you gave up the world, but look what you They arrive at.the backyard of the Campbell house. cluttered with a swing set, a dog run with chewed up lawn, and a wooden sun deck in the process of being ARNIE ( CONT’D ) Four bedrooms, two and a half baths, and a partially finished Jack trips over a wayward BIG WHEEL.
KATE: ( into phone ) She cups the receiver. Jack looks at her, she’s dressed now, nothing fancy but she looks great.
JACK: You cut your hair. A curious look from Kate.
KATE: Ten years ago. Kate just stands there looking at Jack, giving away KATE ( CONT’D ) Are you okay?
JACK: She gives him a resolute nod, then.
KATE: ( into phone ) Jack grimaces as she resolutely hangs up the phone then stares him down angrily.
JACK: ( jumping in ) She looks at him curiously.
KATE: Where were you?
JACK: I was in the city.
KATE: The city? New York City? Why?
JACK: Because that’s where I Jack.don’t even Look, you don’t understand. I woke up here.and this is very strange .this is not my A raised eyebrow from Kate. Jack moves around the JACK ( CONT’D ) ( pointing upstairs ) I’m not “Dad.”. Kate, you’re not my wife. Kate looks him over, assessing, then.
KATE: Jack.don’t even Look, you don’t understand. I woke up here.and this is very strange .this is not my A raised eyebrow from Kate. Jack moves around the JACK ( CONT’D ) ( pointing upstairs ) I’m not “Dad.”. Kate, you’re not my wife. Kate looks him over, assessing, then.
JACK: Look, you don’t understand. I woke up here.and this is very strange .this is not my A raised eyebrow from Kate. Jack moves around the JACK ( CONT’D ) ( pointing upstairs ) I’m not “Dad.”. Kate, you’re not my wife. Kate looks him over, assessing, then.
KATE: You know what, Jack? It’s not funny this time. I’m really angry. She stares him down, expecting an answer. But he has no answer.
ANNIE: ( re: bell ) Jack watches as she pedals over, reaches into his hand and takes the bicycle bell.
KATE: You missed the whole thing, Jack. The pancakes, the presents.you spent six hours putting that bike together and you didn’t even get to see the look on Annie’s face when she opened it. Jack sees the disappointment on her face.
JACK: I’m.I’m sorry. Kate looks at him. He seems sincere enough.
KATE: Look, we don’t have time for this right now, we’ll talk about it later. Now get dressed. ( pointing to his outfit ) You’re not wearing that to the Thompsons’ party. I don’t care how hilarious you think it Party? Oh no, I can’t go to a party.
JACK: Party? Oh no, I can’t go to a party.
KATE: You look forward to this party all year. What’s with you today?
JACK: Trust me on this Kate. I really don’t think going to a party is the right move for me at the present time. Kate looks at him a moment, then shakes her head.
KATE: Fine. Do whatever you She picks up the phone, starts dialing.
JACK: What are you doing?
KATE: Telling my mother she doesn’t have to stay with the kids.
JACK: Why not?
KATE: Because you’ll be here. Kate just looks at him.
JACK: I’ll be ready in ten He walks past her.toward a hallway door, Kate watching him. He opens the door.it’s a closet.
KATE: Funny, Jack. I’m laughing on the inside.
JACK: This is just. ( searching for the words ) .this is sub-par. Annie appears at the bedroom door, watching Jack at the He turns.sees Annie watching him.a look exchanged. then, Annie runs away. Jack turns back to the closet and mournfully takes a pair of the slacks.
EVELYN: Kate! Jack! ( turning around, to guests ) Everybody, Jack and Kate are here! Jack looks right past her.to the house filled with 50
EVELYN: ( suggestively )
JACK: ( glancing at it )
EVELYN: ( a satisfied smile ) Jack shoots her a confused look.then walks in, trying to catch up with Kate.
NICK: Did you see Van Horn last night? This kid’s gonna single-handedly save basketball in the state of New Jersey.
JACK: The Nets? You’re kidding, Nick looks at him in disbelief.
BILL KRAMER: So tomorrow’s the big day, Jackie.
JACK: BILL KRAMER
BILL KRAMER: Triple bypass. I’m going under the knife. I told you, didn’t I?
JACK: Triple bypass? ( pointing to his plate ) You really think you should be eating all BILL KRAMER Why not? I figure I’m going in for a cleaning tomorrow, I might as well load up on the fried stuff tonight.
BILL KRAMER: Why not? I figure I’m going in for a cleaning tomorrow, I might as well load up on the fried stuff tonight.
ARNIE: Good thinking, Bill. Have another drink. ( whispering to Jack ) He’ll be lucky if he lives through the Nick reaches into his pocket and pulls out a packet of Dutch Masters cigars. He shows them to Jack, Jack nods politely. Nick eagerly hands him one. Nick lights Jack’s cigar, then his own.enjoying that first puff.smiling at Jack.Jack dutifully takes a puff of the cigar.nods back at Nick.but it’s an Evelyn Thompson approaches, a tray of MUSHROOM PUFFS in ( holding out a puff to Jack ) Finger food.?
EVELYN: ( holding out a
JACK: I don’t think so, thank ( suggestively ) C’mon, as soon as I put them down, you’re gonna grab a couple.you always do. Kate sees Evelyn and Jack from her position on the other side of the room.Kate watches as. Evelyn holds the puff up to Jack’s mouth, slowly putting it near his lips.
EVELYN: ( suggestively ) Kate sees Evelyn and Jack from her position on the other side of the room.Kate watches as. Evelyn holds the puff up to Jack’s mouth, slowly putting it near his lips.
JACK: ( forcing a smile ) .Evelyn licks her fingers suggestively then hands Jack the entire tray with a sexy smile. A raised eyebrow from Kate, still watching.
EVELYN: Mushroom puffs aren’t the only thing I do well.
JACK: Well do whatever it is you do well, and just.just do it. Excuse me. Evelyn nods as Jack walks toward the staircase. Kate follows Jack with her eyes as he climbs the 43 INT. THOMPSON HOUSE, DEN - NIGHT Jack is sitting on the arm of a couch filled with guests’ coats, talking on a FOOTBALL SHAPED telephone.the tray of mushroom puffs on the table.
JACK: ( loudly, into phone ) ( standing, indignant ) Click. A dial tone. Jack slams the phone down.
KATE: Are you sure you’re A forced smile from Jack.
JACK: Yes, I’m fine. It’s just this god awful football phone! Who has a phone like this anyway?!
KATE: ( doubtful ) Kate notices the tray of mushroom puffs on the table.
KATE: ( to guests ) Jack watches as Kate charms the crowd.
JACK: ( to Kate, off-hand ) A chuckle from the group. Kate’s confused.
KATE: ( a little embarrassed ) Blank stares from everyone, including Kate.
JACK: Pro bono. You don’t get paid at all. Nobody makes a dime. Well, Blank stares from everyone, including Kate.
KATE: I better go wake my Kate grabs a leash off a hook and hands it to Jack.
JACK: You’re kidding me.
KATE: She’s your dog, Jack.
JACK: No, she’s not.
KATE: Fine, she’s the kid’s dog. Let’s go wake Josh, see if he wants to walk But it’s twenty degrees ( sympathetic ) You’re having a bad day, I’ll go with you.actually, there’s no way in hell you’re gettin’ me back out Jack looks at the dog’s face. Lucy couldn’t be more excited. Finally, Jack shakes his head and takes the KATE ( CONT’D ) ( heading up the stairs ) Make sure you reward her verbally when she does a number two.
JACK: But it’s twenty degrees ( sympathetic ) You’re having a bad day, I’ll go with you.actually, there’s no way in hell you’re gettin’ me back out Jack looks at the dog’s face. Lucy couldn’t be more excited. Finally, Jack shakes his head and takes the KATE ( CONT’D ) ( heading up the stairs ) Make sure you reward her verbally when she does a number two.
KATE: ( sympathetic ) Jack looks at the dog’s face. Lucy couldn’t be more excited. Finally, Jack shakes his head and takes the ( heading up the
JACK: Figure it out.I’m s crewed.don’t have to be a genius to figure that out. The dog stops, sniffing at a manicured lawn.
JACK: No answer.
KATE: ( singing )
JACK: ( yelling )
HEY!: Finally, the music is turned down and Kate pulls the shower curtain open. Jack sees her naked body.raises an eyebrow.that’s something he’s missed.then.
KATE: ( unimpressed ) .her expression makes Jack turn his gaze from her naked body.
JACK: Pull tape. Jack searches the diaper for the tabs of tape, then gingerly pulls them apart, releasing the diaper from the baby’s bottom, and seeing what’s inside.
ANNIE: You’re not really our dad, are you? Jack turns to her. She’s looking back at him with complete earnestness. They stare at each other another moment. Then.
JACK: No, I’m not. A look of curiosity from Annie.
ANNIE: Where’s my real dad?
JACK: I don’t know. A concerned look on Annie’s face, Jack’s petrified that she’s about to cry.
ANNIE: They did a pretty good Who did?
JACK: Who did?
ANNIE: The aliens.In the mother ship. You look just like him.
JACK: better looking though, Annie’s now stone faced, trying to decide about Jack.
ANNIE: Do you like kids?
JACK: On a case by case You know how to make chocolate milk?
ANNIE: You know how to make chocolate milk?
JACK: I think I could figure it You promise not to kidnap me and my brother and implant stuff in our brains?
ANNIE: You promise not to kidnap me and my brother and implant stuff in our brains?
JACK: Beat. Then.a smile from Annie.
ANNIE: Welcome to earth.
ANNIE: Stop here. Jack stops the van outside the Playland Day Care ANNIE ( CONT’D ) This is day care. It’s where babies go when their parents are at He gets out of the van.
JACK: He gets out of the van.
JACK: Do I get a receipt or The woman looks at Jack like he’s crazy.
ANNIE: I have winter camp until four, then ballet until five thirty.
JACK: Five thirty. Okay.
ANNIE: Try not to be late because kids don’t like to be the last one picked Got it. Good tip.
JACK: Got it. Good tip.
ANNIE: CHAPTER SEVEN - A TIRE SALESMAN Jack watches her as she runs toward the building. Annie turns back toward him.
JACK: ( calling out window ) Annie turns back toward him.
ANNIE: Big Ed’s.
JACK: Big Ed’s? Big Ed’s ( suspicious ) That’s where you work. A beat. Then.
ANNIE: That’s where you work. A beat. Then.
JACK: You mean I sell tires. She shrugs her shoulders and walks off.
JACK: Good Lord. .a huge, three-story-tall plastic likeness of Big Ed Reynolds, ten gallon hat, lassoing a tire.
TOMMY: Hey Jack, you happen to know the stock number on those new Michelin X1's?
JACK: Uh.lemme get back to you on that one. ( looking at his name tag ) ( to Tommy ) Thomas, why you bother Jack about that. Look it up yourself. ( to Jack ) Okay Jack, we talk Jack nods amiably then continues into the store.
HECTOR: ( to Tommy ) ( to Jack ) Jack nods amiably then continues into the store.
BIG ED: Jack my boy! You are looking mighty worse for the wear.Hey, guess who I played bridge with two nights ago.? Jack stares blankly at Big Ed.
JACK: I’m gonna have to get back to you on that.Ed. Big Ed makes a gun gesture with his forefinger, winking at Jack, then turns back to the activity at the counter Jack spots KENNY, a very young sales associate, walking by. He reaches out and taps Kenny on the shoulder.
KENNY: Uh.sure Jack. ( nervously pointing ) Right back there.
JACK: Thank you. Jack walks into the office with his name on the door.
JACK: Bowlers do it in an alley?.Non profit lawyers do it for free. what is it with these people? Don’t they realize this refers to He replaces the figurine then opens the bottom drawer where he spots a bottle of Glenfiddich. He lifts it JACK ( CONT’D ) At least you splurged on some decent scotch. He takes a paper cup and pours himself a shot. He drinks it down in one gulp and then crumples up the cup, throwing it toward the NET’S basketball hoop/garbage can near the door. He misses. He looks more closely at the photographs.most are family photos, a happy Jack with Kate, with Annie at the pony rides, at Josh’s birth.in every one of them, Jack is smiling.
ESTELLE: ( over P.A. )
JACK: .I was the number one junior sales associate at E.F. Hutton in 1988. Did you know that?
KENNY: No, I didn’t.that’s That’s the kind of thing you can really build Uh huh.
JACK: That’s the kind of thing you can really build Uh huh.
KENNY: Uh huh.
JACK: I mean sales has always been a feeder for M and A, always. They approach “Mag Wheels” where TOMMY, a slick sales associate, stands with a CUSTOMER looking at the Here we are, mag wheels. ( a little concerned ) Hey Jack, are you sure you’re okay?
KENNY: Here we are, mag wheels. ( a little concerned ) Hey Jack, are you sure you’re okay?
JACK: Well, I’m just a little confused right now about why I work here. Kenny looks at him nervously.
KENNY: Uh.I just started here last Tuesday. Jack nods compassionately. Kenny takes off leaving Jack alone with his thoughts as Tommy approaches with the customer.
TOMMY: ( to the customer )
JACK: ( turning to Tommy ) ( proudly, to the The customer nods, impressed.
TOMMY: Because you’re the best damn tire guy in the state of New Jersey. ( proudly, to the customer ) Jack taught me everything I know about the The customer nods, impressed.
JACK: I taught you the business? Another nod to the customer.
TOMMY: And he’s a crack-up.
JACK: Everything I taught you. I want to hear it all, right now. Tommy’s confused.
CUSTOMER: Hey, I’m ready to buy ( to the customer ) What do you want?
JACK: ( to the customer )
CUSTOMER: I want some alloy wheels. Jack grabs one of the alloy rims off the shelf, holding it out to the customer.
JACK: Here. These are great. You’ll need four. The customer takes the wheel from Jack, looks at it But I don’t like these.
CUSTOMER: But I don’t like these.
JACK: Hey, you heard the guy, I’m the best damn tire guy in the state of New ( turning to Tommy ) ( hesitating ) Rule number one, the customer is always A satisfied smirk from the customer.
TOMMY: ( hesitating ) A satisfied smirk from the customer.
JACK: ( into phone ) A KNOCK at the door.
BIG ED: Got a minute, Jack?
JACK: I’ve got all the time in the world. Big Ed walks in, followed by SYDNEY POTTER, 60s, a tough looking man.
BIG ED: Jack, meet Sydney Potter, BuyRite Transport, one of Jersey’s top Potter extends a hand, Jack rises from his chair, trying to place the name. Then.
JACK: .and a helluva bridge player. Ed’s told me a lot about you. They shake hands. Potter nods his head at Jack, immediately impressed. Big Ed is beaming.
POTTER: ( in a heavy Jersey ( to Big Ed ) A smile from Potter, then a serious look.
BIG ED: My daughter’s no slouch A smile from Potter, then a serious look.
POTTER: Let’s cut to the chase, Jack. Big Ed tells me you’re the grease that makes the wheels turn around here. I need a new parts supplier for my fleet. You seem to have the parts. That we know. What we don’t know is why the hell I should buy them from you. Potter stares Jack down. But Jack’s not about to be intimidated by him. He pauses, matching Potter’s stare. Then.
JACK: I have no idea. A surprised look from Potter. An anxious laugh from Big Ed.
BIG ED: ( nervous )
JACK: ( to Potter ) Jack continues to stare down Potter.
POTTER: Okay, you got my Except for rule number Jack smiles.
JACK: Except for rule number Jack smiles.
POTTER: ( to Big Ed, Big Ed smiles, letting out a relieved sigh.
BIG ED: ( a wink to Jack ) ( an arm around Potter ) Big Ed and Potter exit the office.
JACK: A Lamaze class.!?
JACK: What?! That’s my deal?
KATE: The kids are asleep. She goes over to the window and draws the blinds. Jack looks up at her, nods, then goes back to the TV.
JACK: ( distracted ) Kate shuts off the TV.
KATE: I thought we had a deal about you watching CNBC in bed.
JACK: I’m working on a new deal Kate throws a Kate Bush’s “The Sensual World” into the CD player.
KATE: Fine, but not tonight. She climbs onto the bed, a seductive look on her face.
JACK: Wait a second. You want me, don’t you?
KATE: That is the general idea, Kate starts kissing him.but Jack’s a little uncomfortable with the sudden intimacy.he pulls back, a little nervous.
JACK: Shouldn’t we grab some dinner first? Maybe a bottle of wine.?
KATE: It’s ten thirty, Jack. By eleven you’re gonna be sprawled out on the bed snoring your head off. We don’t have time for wining and dining.
JACK: Whatever you say.honey. She starts kissing him again.but this time he just goes with it, and as her hands run through his hair he’s brought back to a different time and place. Jack momentarily pulls back and looks at her.it’s like the first time he’s really looked at her in eleven JACK ( CONT’D ) God.you’re beautiful. She smiles at him, almost uncomfortable with the Thanks, Jack.
KATE: Thanks, Jack.
JACK: No, I’m serious.you’re really stunning.
KATE: This is good stuff, Jack, keep it coming.
JACK: I mean back in college, you were a very pretty girl, there’s no question about that. But this. ( lost in her ) .you’ve really grown into a beautiful woman. Jack stares at her, entranced.Kate pulls back, reacting to the intensity in his stare.
KATE: How can you do that?
JACK: ( nervous )
KATE: Look at me like you haven’t seen me every day for the last twelve Jack freezes. There’s love in her eyes but it’s not meant for him. She kisses him.
KATE: ( back to Jack ) We’re almost done here.
ANNIE: Mary Janes, Mom. You That’s right. Okay, let’s make a quick stop at the kids’ shoe department, pick up my watch from the battery place, then I’ll run into the linen store. An unhappy look on Jack’s face.
KATE: That’s right. Okay, let’s make a quick stop at the kids’ shoe department, pick up my watch from the battery place, then I’ll run into the linen store. An unhappy look on Jack’s face.
JACK: Why don’t we just go to all the stores?! Kate looks back at Jack.
KATE: You know what, Jack?! I’ll go with the kids. Why don’t you just hang out here in the men’s department. okay? Jack glances at the Men’s Dept., sighs and gives Kate a nod. She takes off with the kids.and then he sees .the Zegna section. He’s drawn to the neat rows of beautiful suits like a moth to the light. He approaches the rack, pulls out a dark green suit, gently touching the soft wool.
SALESMAN: Would you like to try it CUT TO: Jack, at a mirror wearing the Zegna suit. It is perfect for his frame. The color is spectacular, the line is dazzling. Jack looks in the mirror, shutting everything else out. it’s like he’s seeing his old self.
KATE: I mean.wow.off the charts great.
JACK: It’s an unbelievable thing. Wearing this suit actually makes me feel like a better person. I’m gonna buy it. Kate raises an eyebrow, then looks at the price tag.
KATE: $2,400?! Are you out of your mind?
JACK: ( pointing to Annie’s She got those shoes.
KATE: Those shoes were twenty five dollars. C’mon, take it off. We’ll go to the food court and get one of those funnel cakes you like. Jack looks at her.it’s a moment of decision.
JACK: Kate looks at Jack, a little surprised.
KATE: Do you have any idea what my life is like?
JACK: Do you have any idea what my life is like?
KATE: Excuse me?
JACK: I wake up in the morning covered in dog saliva.I drop the kids off, spend eight hours selling tires retail.retail, Kate. Kate just stands here, aghast.
KATE: What’s in it for me? Where are my Mary Janes? Kate stares at him, shaking her head.
JACK: What’s in it for me? Where are my Mary Janes? Kate stares at him, shaking her head.
KATE: It’s sad to hear your life is such a disappointment to you, I can’t believe it’s not a disappointment to you! Jesus, Kate, I could’ve been a thousand times the man I became. How could you do this to me? How could you let me give up on my dreams like this?! Kate stares at him in disbelief. Then.
JACK: I can’t believe it’s not a disappointment to you! Jesus, Kate, I could’ve been a thousand times the man I became. How could you do this to me? How could you let me give up on my dreams like this?! Kate stares at him in disbelief. Then.
KATE: Who are you? Kate’s words pierce Jack.he has to avert his eyes.
JACK: ( lowering his voice ) Look, I’m sorry. I’m sorry I was such a saint before and I’m such a prick now. Maybe I’m just not the same guy I was when we got Maybe you’re not. The Jack Campbell I married wouldn’t need a $2400 suit to make himself feel better about his life, but if that’s what it’s gonna take, then buy it. Just buy the goddamn suit .we can take the money out of the kids’ college fund. They stare at each other for a moment.a stand-off.
KATE: Maybe you’re not. The Jack Campbell I married wouldn’t need a $2400 suit to make himself feel better about his life, but if that’s what it’s gonna take, then buy it. Just buy the goddamn suit .we can take the money out of the kids’ college fund. They stare at each other for a moment.a stand-off.
JACK: Forget it. We’ll get a funnel cake. It’ll be the highlight of my week.
JACK: ( to Kate ) Listen, I’m sorry about that back in the store. I really don’t want to fight with you. Kate just keeps looking out the window.
KATE: I’ll give you this, life has thrown us a few A glimmer in Jack’s eye.
JACK: It really has, hasn’t it? So if you had to.what would you say was the biggest surprise? She glances at the kids sleeping in the back.
KATE: Well.Annie for one.
JACK: Surprise. We’re Yeah.that must’ve been.I mean that was very unexpected. But what are you gonna do, I think it worked out okay, don’t you?
KATE: I think it worked out okay, don’t you?
JACK: Sure. I really like Good, Jack. Maybe we’ll keep her.
KATE: Good, Jack. Maybe we’ll keep her.
JACK: No, I love Annie. We had a lot of good times, didn’t we?
KATE: We were young. Remember that little place on Charles Street we used to go to?
JACK: Charles Street? In the Village? When we were living in Greenwich Great times. Why’d we ever leave?
KATE: You can’t really raise a kid in an apartment in the Village. Jack nods, starting to piece it together.
JACK: You had a heart attack?
KATE: ( a laugh ) Jack, stop that. I'm still mad at you. ( a sigh ) .who knows what would’ve happened if you hadn’t stepped in at the That’s why I work for Big A look from Kate.
JACK: That’s why I work for Big A look from Kate.
KATE: If you want to look at it that way.
JACK: How would you look at it? She glances again at the kids in the back seat, then at A great success story. A smile from Jack. He admires her outlook even if he can’t bring himself to share it.
KATE: A great success story. A smile from Jack. He admires her outlook even if he can’t bring himself to share it.
JACK: ( O.S., from behind ) Jesus, Jack, this is a league match, for god’s Jack turns. Arnie and the BOWLING TEAM are in the scorekeeping area watching Jack make a mockery of the sport. Jack scowls.
ARNIE: ( O.S., from behind ) Jesus, Jack, this is a league match, for god’s Jack turns. Arnie and the BOWLING TEAM are in the scorekeeping area watching Jack make a mockery of the sport. Jack scowls.
JACK: Hey, I’m doing the best I I’d like to see you hit a squash ball after seventeen beers.
ARNIE: You’re right. Why am I so competitive!? Compensation, I guess. Look, just focus, Jack. You can still pick up the Jack retrieves his ball, sets up, genuinely You are Jack Campbell. You’re better than this sport. You shot the rapids at Kenai. You ran with the bulls at Pamplona. You jumped out of a plane over the Mojave Desert, for Christ’s sake. You can do this. Jack puts everything he has into the throw, heaving the ball down the lane with as much grace and power as he can muster.hitting the six pin and taking out four He turns, a fist pumped.But the guys could care Okay, Pete, you’re up.
JACK: ( quietly, to You are Jack Campbell. You’re better than this sport. You shot the rapids at Kenai. You ran with the bulls at Pamplona. You jumped out of a plane over the Mojave Desert, for Christ’s sake. You can do this. Jack puts everything he has into the throw, heaving the ball down the lane with as much grace and power as he can muster.hitting the six pin and taking out four ( screaming, excited ) He turns, a fist pumped.But the guys could care ( to TEAMMATE ) Okay, Pete, you’re up.
ARNIE: ( to TEAMMATE ) Okay, Pete, you’re up.
EVELYN: Hi Jack. A moment of confusion as he tries to place the face. Evelyn, right?
JACK: Evelyn, right?
EVELYN: Very funny. I saw you out there on lane five. What do you have the flu or something?
JACK: Something like that.
EVELYN: ( with a wink ) Need a nurse?
JACK: You’re a nurse? Evelyn laughs.
EVELYN: If that’s what you She brushes past Jack, continuing to her lane.Jack follows her with his eyes a moment, then.
JACK: Wait a second. She turns.
EVELYN: Are we what, Jack?
JACK: Is there something going on between us? Evelyn’s surprised at Jack’s directness. She stands there a beat, then walks back toward him.
EVELYN: Are we finally being It would help me if we Okay, you’re right, we’ve been dancing around this for years. Evelyn looks a little flush.she briefly fans her God, my heart is racing. Here goes. When I get dressed for a party and I know you’re going to be there. well, let’s just say I don’t go strapless because my husband likes An intrigued smile from Jack.
JACK: It would help me if we Okay, you’re right, we’ve been dancing around this for years. Evelyn looks a little flush.she briefly fans her God, my heart is racing. Here goes. When I get dressed for a party and I know you’re going to be there. well, let’s just say I don’t go strapless because my husband likes An intrigued smile from Jack.
EVELYN: Okay, you’re right, we’ve been dancing around this for years. Evelyn looks a little flush.she briefly fans her God, my heart is racing. Here goes. When I get dressed for a party and I know you’re going to be there. well, let’s just say I don’t go strapless because my husband likes An intrigued smile from Jack.
JACK: Do I have your number? A wide smile from Evelyn.
EVELYN: Steve’s out of town with the kids this week. Why don’t you just stop by. She turns, leaving Jack standing there, watching her sashay back to her lane.
ARNIE: ( looking at Jack ) Hey Jack, you’re all flush. I guess that seventy-one took a lot outta you.
JACK: ( sitting down ) I just saw Evelyn She is relentless.
ARNIE: She is relentless.
JACK: She wants to have an affair with me.
ARNIE: She said that?
JACK: Pretty much.
ARNIE: Oh yeah. What is it about you?
JACK: ( pushing over a So could you write down her exact address?
ARNIE: Whoa.whoa.wait a second, Jack. You’re not actually gonna cheat on It wouldn’t really be It’s complicated.
JACK: It wouldn’t really be It’s complicated.
ARNIE: Look, maybe I’m not as good a consigliere as you are but you have to trust me on this one. A little flirtation’s harmless but you’re playing with fire here. The Fidelity Bank and Trust is a tough creditor. You make a deposit somewhere else, they close your account I’m telling you, those rules don’t apply to me, Screw the rules. I’m talking about the choice. Jack looks at him curiously.
JACK: I’m telling you, those rules don’t apply to me, Screw the rules. I’m talking about the choice. Jack looks at him curiously.
ARNIE: ( a chuckle ) Screw the rules. I’m talking about the choice. Jack looks at him curiously.
JACK: Hey, is that really All I’m saying it there isn’t a guy in Union County who wouldn’t give his left nut to be married to Kate. Arnie takes one last swig of his beer and gets up.
ARNIE: All I’m saying it there isn’t a guy in Union County who wouldn’t give his left nut to be married to Kate. Arnie takes one last swig of his beer and gets up.
KATE: ( not looking up ) How was the game, honey?
JACK: ( opening the fridge ) Long, boring, and generally pretty sad. Arnie seemed to enjoy ( peering inside ) Hey, where’s that chocolate Kate turns around, revealing a huge hunk of chocolate cake on a plate in front of her, a bite ready to go into her mouth.
KATE: ( with a smile ) You mean this chocolate That’s my piece. I was saving it because I got nauseated from that store bought chicken. Kate takes the bite, a little piece of icing sticks to the side of her mouth.
JACK: That’s my piece. I was saving it because I got nauseated from that store bought chicken. Kate takes the bite, a little piece of icing sticks to the side of her mouth.
KATE: It’s good. Jack approaches the counter.
JACK: Gimme that cake. She takes another bite.
KATE: No way. He makes a grab for the plate but she holds it out where he can’t reach it.
JACK: Sorry, Jack. It’s too important to me. They stare each other down a moment. Then. He tries to swipe the plate. Kate jumps out of her chair, running out of the kitchen with the cake, Jack takes off after her.chasing her through the house. just about the catch up to her when. She darts up the stairs, still laughing.he follows I want that cake! .reaches up.grabs her shirt.pulls her down playfully on top of him.
KATE: Sorry, Jack. It’s too important to me. They stare each other down a moment. Then. He tries to swipe the plate. Kate jumps out of her chair, running out of the kitchen with the cake, Jack takes off after her.chasing her through the house. just about the catch up to her when. She darts up the stairs, still laughing.he follows I want that cake! .reaches up.grabs her shirt.pulls her down playfully on top of him.
JACK: I want that cake! .reaches up.grabs her shirt.pulls her down playfully on top of him.
KATE: ( laughing ) You want the cake!?
JACK: ( out of breath ) I want it. She looks at him, then takes the whole piece in her hand and smooshes it right in his mouth. Beat. Then, Jack starts laughing.
KATE: It’s good, right? He takes a big clump of it and smooshes it in her They stay there a moment, lying on the stairs, feeding each other cake, laughing. Jack leans back on the stairs. He looks at Kate’s face, practically covered in cake, smiling, and .he hasn’t laughed like this in thirteen years. Are the kids asleep? A sexy smile from Kate.they start kissing passionately right there on the steps.it’s heating Say it, Jack.
JACK: Are the kids asleep? A sexy smile from Kate.they start kissing passionately right there on the steps.it’s heating Say it, Jack.
KATE: ( caught up in the Say it, Jack.
JACK: C’mon, you know what I like to hear.
KATE: C’mon, you know what I like to hear.
JACK: ( in the throes Yeah, baby, I know what you like to hear.
KATE: ( kissing him ) Then say it.just say it to me.!
JACK: ( swept up in the Oh yeah, you’re a bad girl, baby. You make me so hot.I’m gonna take you to that special Kate pulls away.
KATE: Jack looks up at her, he can practically see the passion drain from her face.
JACK: Not it.?
KATE: Nice, Jack. You’re sweeping me off my feet.
JACK: What? You make me hot. She gets up and heads up the steps, disappearing into the bedroom.Jack shakes his head, frustrated. Then, he feels something licking at his hand. He looks down and sees Lucy standing next to him, wagging her tail, looking up at Jack with an “I’ve gotta go” look on her face. Jack heaves a sigh, C’mon, Lucy, maybe one of us can get a little relief tonight. He leads the dog toward the front door.
JACK: ( pulling the leash ) C’mon, girl, let’s go 71 INT. CAMPBELL HOUSE FOYER - MINUTES LATER The front door opens and Jack walks in with Lucy on a leash, his face red from the cold outside. He gives the dog a pat on the rump, then takes off his coat, hanging it and the leash on a hook by the door. He walks through the quiet house, into the living room, rubbing his hands together to warm them up.
BILL KRAMER: Four hundred bucks at Best Buy, Arn. Then.Jack comes into frame, a confident smile on his And everyone knows image stabilization is for the Jack is jarred by the image of himself on the video. Jack on TV.he smiles as Kate walks into frame, easily putting an arm around Jack.
JACK: And everyone knows image stabilization is for the Jack is jarred by the image of himself on the video. Jack on TV.he smiles as Kate walks into frame, easily putting an arm around Jack.
ARNIE: So Jack, it’s your wife’s birthday, got anything to say to her?
JACK: ( to Kate ) It’s your birthday? Today? What’s your name? Where were you Wait a minute. You’re my She slaps him playfully on the arm.
KATE: Wait a minute. You’re my She slaps him playfully on the arm.
JACK: Wait a minute. You’re my She slaps him playfully on the arm.
KATE: ( groggy ) Time to get up, honey. Jack obliges without question, getting out of bed, putting on a robe and slippers and exiting, still practically half-asleep.
KATE: Happy Anniversary, Terror on Jack’s face.
JACK: Maybe I should wait.
KATE: No, open it. He hesitates, then begins unwrapping the package, .a suit, similar in color and style to the Zegna I found it at an outlet store. I know it’s a knock-off, but I think it’ll look great on Jack is overcome with emotion.Yes, it’s a ZEENA, but this is probably the nicest thing anyone’s ever done for him.
JACK: ( examining the label ) Jack is overcome with emotion.Yes, it’s a ZEENA, but this is probably the nicest thing anyone’s ever done for him.
KATE: Enjoy it, sweetheart. Jack looks at Kate’s expectant face, suddenly remembering how truly screwed he is.
JACK: You’re probably expecting something from me. He’s sweating bullets.watching as Kate gets a quizzical look on her face.
KATE: What are you talking about? You never wait all day. You can barely wait until it’s light I know that, but. Beat. Kate looks at him like she’s looking into his You forgot. Jack stands there, silent.
JACK: I know that, but. Beat. Kate looks at him like she’s looking into his You forgot. Jack stands there, silent.
KATE: You forgot. Jack stands there, silent.
JACK: I’ll fix it. I’ll go out right now and get you something. I’ll make it That didn’t help.
KATE: ( holding back Jesus, Jack.Is this where we are now? Is this our marriage? Suddenly I’m the wife who has to drop hints two weeks before her anniversary so her husband doesn’t fuck it Jack sees a tear run down her face.a pang of guilt on Please don’t cry. Kate wipes the tear away but they just keep coming.
JACK: Please don’t cry. Kate wipes the tear away but they just keep coming.
KATE: ( shaking her head, I don’t want to be that, Jack approaches her, holding out a hand but Kate pushes it away, gets up and walks toward the bathroom. Jack is left standing alone, holding Kate’s gift.
JACK: Nothing. Finally, he lifts the bike up in the air, RINGING the bell with everything he’s got.
ANNIE: ( slowly ) Put the bicycle back on the ground. Jack turns and sees her, gently lowering the bicycle.
ANNIE: Not bad.I shoulda warned you. Dad always does something really special for their Like what?
JACK: Like what?
ANNIE: One year he had a solar system named after her.
JACK: Don’t you think that’s a little gimmicky?
ANNIE: Mom liked it. Jack raises an eyebrow.
JACK: Maybe there’s a jewelry store back at the mall. I could get her a pair of earrings or something.
ANNIE: That’s good but.you did forget the anniversary.
JACK: Right. That’s a major So if I’m Kate.I can’t really afford the finer things, my husband’s career is a crushing disappointment to me, I’m trapped in suburbia. Did he ever take her to the City? Annie smiles, impressed.
ANNIE: You’re really gettin’ the hang of this. Suddenly, a look of confidence comes over Jack’s face. For the first time, he seems like a man in control.
KATE: Which do you think? Annie thinks about it for a moment, taking it very The black one. Kate nods. She’s about to put it on when she looks at Fighting’s a part of it, Annie. You know that, I’m not worried, Mom. He’s still learning our Kate looks at her with a raised eyebrow, then nods. It’s true. She puts down the dress and holds out a hand to Annie.
ANNIE: The black one. Kate nods. She’s about to put it on when she looks at Fighting’s a part of it, Annie. You know that, I’m not worried, Mom. He’s still learning our Kate looks at her with a raised eyebrow, then nods. It’s true. She puts down the dress and holds out a hand to Annie.
KATE: Fighting’s a part of it, Annie. You know that, I’m not worried, Mom. He’s still learning our Kate looks at her with a raised eyebrow, then nods. It’s true. She puts down the dress and holds out a hand to Annie.
ANNIE: I’m not worried, Mom. He’s still learning our Kate looks at her with a raised eyebrow, then nods. It’s true. She puts down the dress and holds out a hand to Annie.
KATE: Kate leads her to the makeup table, then opens a Kate nods then applies some red lipstick to Annie’s Kate rubs her lips together, showing Annie how to do it. Annie mimics her Mom, then Kate looks at her – Annie’s beaming.
ANNIE: ( excited ) Kate nods then applies some red lipstick to Annie’s Now go like this. Kate rubs her lips together, showing Annie how to do it. Annie mimics her Mom, then Kate looks at her – Annie’s beaming.
KATE: Now go like this. Kate rubs her lips together, showing Annie how to do it. Annie mimics her Mom, then Kate looks at her – Annie’s beaming.
JACK: You look beautiful. A charmed smile from Kate as she hands Jack her coat. Jack hands the coats over to the COAT CHECK GIRL.
KATE: You okay? He takes Kate by the arm.
JACK: He leads her to the main room. She looks out at the room, elegant tables, French country decor, a PIANIST playing Cole Porter.
KATE: ( quietly to Jack ) Jack.can we afford all What’s the difference? I’m taking my baby out for our anniversary, damn the costs.
JACK: What’s the difference? I’m taking my baby out for our anniversary, damn the costs.
KATE: How do you even know about this place? Jack’s caught for a moment. Then.
JACK: ( insistent ) Arnie. He’ll throw you a curve ball once in a while, that’s for sure. Jack puts his arm around her and kisses her on the 82 INT. LOIRE - A LITTLE LATER Jack and Kate sit at a secluded table, a WAITER standing next to them. Jack’s not even looking at the menu.
JACK: We’ll have the tureen of quail breast with shiitake mushrooms to start, then the veal medallions in raspberry truffle sauce and the sea scallops with pureed artichoke hearts.sea scallops, North of the Kate looks at Jack, a mixture of confusion and awe on her face.
WAITER: Very good, sir. And may I say those are all excellent selections.
JACK: You may. Also, we’ll have a bottle of Lafite, 1982. Kate reaches over and pulls down the wine list, reading it upside down.
KATE: It’s five hundred and fifty dollars, Jack! A wince from Jack.for a moment there it was almost Just a glass of red wine for each of us. The waiter nods, then walks toward the kitchen.
JACK: Just a glass of red wine for each of us. The waiter nods, then walks toward the kitchen.
KATE: You are so not off the hook yet, slick.
JACK: But I’m gettin’ close, right? A noncommittal nod from Kate. Then Jack notices her look over at the pianist, drawn in by the music.
KATE: I don’t think there’s dancing here, Jack. Jack gets up and holds out a hand.
JACK: Sure there is. Kate looks around again, then she smiles. Kate rises, taking his hand. Jack takes her in his arms, swaying slowly in the limited amount of space, confident and self-assured. The pianist looks up, smiling, appreciating their role in this romantic moment. Kate moves with Jack, following his lead comfortably. They look good together.in sync with each other. People are watching them.some of the men are impressed, others are scoffing, but the women are clearly charmed.
KATE: ( whispering to Pretty good for a tire salesman from Jersey. Jack flashes her his most charming smile.
JACK: I have my moments. They continue to dance, in a world of their own.
KATE: ( spearing a scallop ) .here, try one of Jack takes a scallop from Kate’s fork.
JACK: ( savoring the scallop ) God I missed that Kate laughs.
KATE: I think it may help us but there’s a slight chance it could make things worse. She hears the seriousness in his voice.
JACK: I think it may help us but there’s a slight chance it could make things worse. She hears the seriousness in his voice.
KATE: Now I’m worried.just say it. Whatever it is we’ll deal with it.
JACK: Are you sure? She nods. Jack searches his mind for the right words. I feel like I’m living someone else’s life. Jack looks to her, expecting the worst. But she just nods reassuringly. He continues.
KATE: Worse, you mean.
JACK: No. Well, maybe a few things. But mostly just Jack lets out a small smile. Now he’s the one who’s reassuring Kate.
KATE: And now.?
JACK: Now.I don’t. He looks at her, staring into her eyes, almost desperate for understanding.
KATE: Me neither. A raised eyebrow from Jack.
JACK: But you always seem so C’mon, Jack, you think there aren’t mornings when I wake up and wonder what the hell I’m doing in New Jersey.
KATE: C’mon, Jack, you think there aren’t mornings when I wake up and wonder what the hell I’m doing in New Jersey.
JACK: That’s a big one for me, My office is a dump, I answer my own phone.and you’ve seen my pay check.
KATE: My office is a dump, I answer my own phone.and you’ve seen my pay check.
JACK: Your pay check is a disgrace to pay checks.
KATE: I mean yes, I help people that need it.
JACK: I guess.some of them are probably faking.
KATE: ( a laugh, then. ) God, sometimes I think it would be so nice not to have to stretch ground beef or maybe drive a car with a CD player. He smiles, right there with her.
JACK: It’s wonderful. Kate laughs, nodding. A pause, then.
KATE: I think about it, too, Jack. I do. I think about the kind of person I’d be if I hadn’t married you. It’s as if she’s inside his head. They stay like this for a moment, looking into each other.
JACK: She stops a moment, considering. Then.
KATE: And I realize I’ve just erased the things in my life I’m most sure about. You, the kids. Jack nods.
JACK: Good things.
KATE: What are you sure about? Jack looks into Kate’s eyes.
JACK: I’m sure that right now there’s nowhere I’d rather be than here with Kate smiles at Jack, a loving, secure smile. It’s been a while.
KATE: This is so beautiful. Jack smiles as he opens a champagne bottle sitting on a silver ice bucket.
JACK: ( pouring ) I’ll just full yours up to the top. ( handing her a Happy anniversary, Kate smiles, clinking her glass with Jack’s.
KATE: I don’t know how you did it, hoss, but you pulled it off.
JACK: I’m out of the doghouse?
KATE: Way out. Kate saunters into the bedroom, looking at the king- size poster bed, feeling the down quilt. Jack follows You may even get lucky Kate kisses him.when their lips separate, we can see the powerful effect it has on him. Jack looks deep into her eyes, stroking her hair, lost in her.
JACK: You’re so.beautiful.
KATE: I already told you you were gonna get lucky, They kiss again, a long soulful kiss. Then. Jack pulls back, a look of realization on his face.
JACK: My god, all this time.I never stopped loving That’s all I wanted to She kisses him, their bodies intertwined.hands caressing .more and more passionate.then reaches behind her to the light. The room goes dark.
KATE: ( a wide smile ) That’s all I wanted to She kisses him, their bodies intertwined.hands caressing .more and more passionate.then reaches behind her to the light. The room goes dark.
KATE: Kate lifts her head, turning to face Jack.
JACK: I don’t think I’d fight you on that one. Kate lifts her head and looks at him expectantly. They The mini-van passes a sign that reads, “Welcome to Annie walking through the downstairs of the house, practicing her violin.it’s a noise bordering on MUSIC, but not quite. She walks into the kitchen where. Jack stands at the counter in his robe, reading the Newark Star Ledger and drinking a cup of coffee. He lowers the paper, watches Annie with a smile as she strolls through the room playing her violin badly.he goes back to his paper.
KATE: Have a good day. A smile from Jack as she pats him on the ass and sends him on his way.
JACK: For the money, they’re hands down the best radial we carry.
MAN: ( thinking, then. ) Okay, I’ll take them.
JACK: You won’t regret it. Tommy! Set Mr. Conlin up with four B.F. Goodrich G-Force T/A’s. .and give him ten percent off for having the best costume. Just then, a black ROLLS ROYCE SILVER SERAPH pulls into the lot, its front left tire riding on the rim.
KENNY: ( walking out to Jack ) Kate’s on two, Jack. ( on seeing the Rolls ) Nice ride.
JACK: ( staring at Lassiter ) If you’re into that kind of conspicuous You want me to handle him? I think I’m ( over P.A. system ) Jack! Kate still holding on line two.
KENNY: You want me to handle him? I think I’m Jack! Kate still holding on line two.
JACK: Sure.be careful, he looks like a tough Jack walks inside.
JACK: ( to Estelle, into Tell Kate I’ll call her INTERCUT WITH ESTELLE IN HER OFFICE ( into intercom ) It sounded pretty ( into intercom ) I’m with a customer. I’ll call her back. He takes his hand away from the phone and walks back outside the store.
ESTELLE: ( into intercom ) It sounded pretty ( into intercom ) I’m with a customer. I’ll call her back. He takes his hand away from the phone and walks back outside the store.
JACK: ( into intercom ) I’m with a customer. I’ll call her back. He takes his hand away from the phone and walks back outside the store.
LASSITER: ( to Kenny ) I seem to have had some kind of blow out. Jack approaches, tapping Kenny on the shoulder.
JACK: Why don’t you let me take this one, Kenny?
KENNY: Okay, chief. Kenny nods then heads back inside.
JACK: Peter Lassiter.
LASSITER: ( surprised ) Do I know you?
JACK: Not exactly. I’ve seen you on CNBC. You look taller in real CUT TO: Jack leaning back in his chair, behind the desk of his cluttered, cramped office.
JACK: .truth is, Mintz was so busy timing his wife’s breathing he didn’t see that MedTech needed Global more than the other way around. Ten days, two weeks tops, they would’ve approached you with an offer, and I’d bet anything it would’ve been thirty billion, not twenty Problem was, Peter, you had a pussycat running the show. What you needed was a rottweiler. Lassiter, sitting on the little chair across from Jack, an intrigued look on his face.
LASSITER: ( nodding ) Well, I’m impressed. A smile from Jack.
JACK: Sure. We’re going to have to special order that tire. It’ll be ready in about two days. Lassiter nods, then takes a business card out of his This has my office address on it. Why don’t you drop it off A smile from Jack.
LASSITER: This has my office address on it. Why don’t you drop it off A smile from Jack.
HECTOR: .I say to her, Margarita, we already have four kids, why do we need more? Jack is shaking his leg anxiously under the desk as he eyes the door.
JACK: ( interrupting ) Hector.do I usually listen to your personal Sure, Jack, all the time. Jack nods, then.
HECTOR: Sure, Jack, all the time. Jack nods, then.
JACK: Look, I have some business that I have to take care of in the city so I’m leaving early. My advice to you.follow your dreams.
LASSITER: .we’re really more of a boutique operation, as you can see.
JACK: But you’re not interested in boutique dollars. I get it. They walk into.
MINTZ’S ASSISTANT: ( seeing Lassiter ) He’s expecting you, Mr. Lassiter doesn’t even slow down.
LASSITER: ( to Mintz ) Alan, this is Jack Campbell.the one I was telling you about. Mintz, a confident look on his face, gets up from the desk and goes to shake Jack’s hand.
ALAN: Jack, of course. They shake hands.
JACK: ( appropriately Mr. Mintz.
ALAN: Please, call me Alan. We try to cultivate a casual atmosphere around here.
JACK: ( re: play pen ) I can see that, Alan. A chuckle from Mintz.
ALAN: You have kids, Jack?
JACK: ( hesitating, then. ) Uh.actually, yes. Two. good ones. Another laugh from Mintz.
ALAN: That’s great. Why don’t you have a seat? Jack nods, sits down on the plush sofa, Mintz and Lassiter take the chairs.
JACK: I was a sales associate, at E.F. Hutton.
ALAN: A broker? Really. And now you’re in the tire That’s right. And auto Uh huh. The retail end, I Jack nods.
JACK: That’s right. And auto Uh huh. The retail end, I Jack nods.
ALAN: Uh huh. The retail end, I Jack nods.
JACK: Uh.we actually get about sixty percent of our business from automotive Mind if I ask what kind of sales you did last year? We did one point seven million in total revenue.
ALAN: Mind if I ask what kind of sales you did last year? We did one point seven million in total revenue.
JACK: We did one point seven million in total revenue.
ALAN: Uh huh.one point seven. And what do you project for this year? Jack pauses, analyzing the situation.the patronizing questions, the smirk on Mintz’s face.
JACK: Well, Alan, I think we’re gonna have a banner year. Sales are up almost twenty percent in the first quarter and we just landed a major trucking company account.
ALAN: Really. So you’re projecting what, a tad over two million? A gleam in Jack’s eye.
JACK: That’s right. And that would make us number one in our market. You mind if I stand? A raised eyebrow from Mintz. Mintz and Lassiter follow Jack with their eyes as he crosses the room to the desk, pours himself a glass of Look, I know our paltry little two million in sales is about what you spend on office supplies in a year. And I know some regional trucking company account is nothing compared to a sixty billion dollar I’m not trying to knock the tire business, Jack.
ALAN: I’m not trying to knock the tire business, Jack.
JACK: ( a confident chuckle ) It’s okay, Alan. I get it. I’m in your shoes, I’m thinking exactly the same thing.but here’s the thing. Business is business. Wall Street, Main Street, it’s all just a bunch of people getting up in the morning, trying to figure out how the hell they’re gonna send their kids to college. It’s just Jack’s confidence is throwing Mintz off, but Lassiter appears intrigued.
ALAN: I’m sure you do.
LASSITER: ( intervening ) Let’s let the man have his say. Mintz covers his embarrassment with a smile.
JACK: ( to Mintz ) Take you, for instance.
ALAN: ( defensive ) What about me?
JACK: You drink about sixteen Diet Cokes a day. You’re an excellent father, but you feel guilty about the time you spend away from home. You drink bourbon, but you offer your clients scotch. Jack looks around the office then back to Mintz.
LASSITER: He certainly has your number, Alan.
JACK: ( turning to Lassiter ) You’re a little tougher, A raised eyebrow from Lassiter, but he’s game.
LASSITER: ( smiling proudly ) That’s easy. You’ve seen my car.
JACK: ( a chuckle ) Okay.you smoke Hoyo de Monterreys. You’re a scotch man, single malt, not because it’s trendy but because you’ve been doing it for forty years, and you stay with what works. You have two great loves in your life, your horses and this company. You wept openly the day the Dow hit ten thousand. Lassiter’s impressed.
LASSITER: Oh? And how would you Jack smiles.
JACK: Because I’m here. On Lassiter.nodding his head. Mintz, a plastered-on I’m prepared to do anything it takes to get this job. Start anywhere you need me to start. I’ll park cars if I The biggest part of judging character is knowing yourself. And I know this, I can do this job. Give me a chance, Peter, I won’t let you Lassiter returns Jack’s gaze with equal intensity. In a moment, he turns to Mintz.
LASSITER: ( to Mintz ) Alan, why don’t you show Jack around a bit.
ALAN: I’d love to.
ALAN: ( pointing ) .that’s our war room. We did seven major deals last year, three of them ( not particularly Seven. Really. They turn a corner, coming into a deserted section of the corridor. Mintz stops, turning to Jack. Jack returns Mintz’s gaze with a quizzical look.
JACK: ( not particularly Seven. Really. They turn a corner, coming into a deserted section of the corridor. Mintz stops, turning to Jack. Jack returns Mintz’s gaze with a quizzical look.
ALAN: Let’s cut the shit, huh Campbell? What, did you go through his wallet or Jack’s a little taken aback.
JACK: God, you really are different, aren’t you. I mean.wow.I am Now it’s Mintz’s turn to look quizzical.
ALAN: I don’t think you’re hearing Oh, I’m hearing you, Alan. That’s not the problem. The problem is that what you think is yours, is really mine. And I don’t care how low on the totem pole I start, I will get it back. So do yourself a favor and don’t get too attached to that view because sometime soon, maybe very soon, you and your French country antiques, your chintz sofa, and your little play pen are gonna be moving out of that office. Jack smiles at Alan one more time, then turns.
JACK: Oh, I’m hearing you, Alan. That’s not the problem. The problem is that what you think is yours, is really mine. And I don’t care how low on the totem pole I start, I will get it back. So do yourself a favor and don’t get too attached to that view because sometime soon, maybe very soon, you and your French country antiques, your chintz sofa, and your little play pen are gonna be moving out of that office. Jack smiles at Alan one more time, then turns.
JACK: Welcome to Xanadu. The place is incredible.marble floors, architectural lines, high tech fixtures, elegant modern furniture. it’s striking but not at all homey like the Jersey Pretty incredible, isn’t It’s like a museum. Jack nods.
KATE: It’s like a museum. Jack nods.
JACK: Think bigger.
KATE: For the week? Jack chuckles.
JACK: This place is a perk, A perk for what?
KATE: A perk for what?
JACK: A company called P.K. Lassiter and Associates Investment House uses it to attract new Kate’s confused.
KATE: What are you talking about, Jack?
JACK: I’m going into arbitrage, honey. Turns out I have a knack for it. I’ll be making two hundred grand a year plus a hefty bonus and that’s just to start. And, we can live in this apartment practically rent free for as long as we want. Jack measures her reaction. It’s not good.
KATE: Are you out of your mind?
JACK: I don’t think so. This is going to be a better life for all of us, honey. We’ll put Annie and Josh in private Annie goes to a great I’m talking about the best schools in the country here, Kate.
KATE: Annie goes to a great I’m talking about the best schools in the country here, Kate.
JACK: I’m talking about the best schools in the country here, Kate.
KATE: Jack, what could you possibly be thinking? What about my job?
JACK: This is New York City, it’s like the needy people capital of the world. Those Jersey clients of yours aren’t a tenth as pathetic as the ones you could get I can’t believe you want to move back into the city. I thought the reason we left was because we didn’t want to raise the kids here?
KATE: ( cutting him off ) I can’t believe you want to move back into the city. I thought the reason we left was because we didn’t want to raise the kids here?
JACK: No, this is the center of the universe. If I were living in Roman times, I would live in Rome, where else? Today, America is the Roman Empire and New York is Rome itself. John Lennon.
KATE: ( cutting him off ) Jack’s starting to struggle.
JACK: Look, I’m detecting a kind of funky tension here.We don’t have to live in this apartment. I don’t need this.I’ll commute.I’ll drive to Jack’s back on his heels.seeing his dream picked In traffic? It’s over an hour each way? That’s almost three hours a day. When are you going to see the kids? He’s frustrated.he pauses a moment to gather himself. Then.
KATE: In traffic? It’s over an hour each way? That’s almost three hours a day. When are you going to see the kids? He’s frustrated.he pauses a moment to gather himself. Then.
JACK: Kate. You’re not understanding me. I’m talking about a great life. A perfect life. Everything we pictured when we were young. The whole package. You said it yourself, life has thrown us surprises, and so we made sacrifices. But now I can finally get us back on track. A sad chuckle from Kate.
KATE: Then get a goddamn snow Jack’s taken aback by the intensity of her tone.
JACK: Look, you’re making this into something it’s not. This isn’t a referendum on our lives, Kate. It’s a step forward. Don’t you see? I’m talking about us finally having a life other people envy. Silence. Kate looks him in the eye – a deep, piercing They already do envy us, Kate picks up her bag and walks out of the apartment.
KATE: They already do envy us, Kate picks up her bag and walks out of the apartment.
JACK: Very nice. What is it?
ANNIE: Mary Had A Little Lamb.
JACK: Ah. A classic. Annie starts PLAYING again as Jack looks at the dresser. She has 20 or so family photos lined up and down its sides. Jack studies them.in every one Jack’s face is totally contented. Jack studies them, looking at his own face. Annie lowers the bow, watching him. Jack turns to her.
JACK: From London to New York.? I came back. Then.a NOISE. Jack turns and sees Kate walking into the doorway, standing there.She sees Jack holding the Pan Am ticket sleeve.
KATE: Our finest moment, A quizzical look from Jack.
ANNIE: ( whispering in I knew you’d come back.
JACK: What are you doing?
ANNIE: ( a curious look ) Ringing my bell. On Jack’s anxious face.
JACK: Four ninety nine?! It’s just salt for god’s sake. On the entrance to the store.the door opens, a YOUNG GIRL, 17, enters, an average suburban teenager. She glances at a fashion magazine, picks up a package of gum. From the POV of the cashier, we see the girl approach the counter. On Jack, crouched down in the aisle. He grabs a bag of salt from the shelf, when.
JACK: Then.the color drains from Jack’s face.
CASH: Jack, it’s good to see Cash reaches into the register, taking out change for ten dollars.he hands the girl $9.35.
JACK: I’m not going back. The girl hesitates.Cash turns to her.
CASH: ( to the girl ) Everything okay.? She looks at him, a moment of decision, then.
TEENAGE GIRL: ( raising his voice ) Hey! Did you hear me.?! Cash ignores Jack, watching the girl as she heads to the door, hesitates a moment, then walks out. A look of disappointment on Cash’s face as he reaches into his pocket, pulling out a little notebook. Cash looks at Jack.
JACK: ( raising his voice ) Hey! Did you hear me.?! Cash ignores Jack, watching the girl as she heads to the door, hesitates a moment, then walks out. A look of disappointment on Cash’s face as he reaches into his pocket, pulling out a little notebook. Cash looks at Jack.
CASH: ( making a note That was a character issue. ( shaking his head ) .and for nine dollars? That’s just sad.
JACK: Hey, I’m talking to you! I am not going back, do you Cash looks at him, compassion on his face.
CASH: C’mon, Jack. Jack throws six bucks on the counter.
JACK: I’ve got kids, I’m going You know what the word glimpse means, J? It’s by nature an impermanent Jack walks determinedly toward the exit. He stops and turns at the door.
CASH: You know what the word glimpse means, J? It’s by nature an impermanent Jack walks determinedly toward the exit. He stops and turns at the door.
JACK: ( pointing at I’m staying. Cash follows him with his eyes, a proud look on Cash’s face as Jack leaves.
ANNIE: ( stirring, groggy ) Is it morning yet?
JACK: No, honey. Go back to She closes her eyes as Jack stands there for a moment looking at her, sadness all over his face.
KATE: ( looking up from Jack approaches her, sitting on the bed.
JACK: These last weeks, Kate, I know that I’ve done some.some unusual Kate nods.
KATE: It’s been interesting, that’s for sure.
JACK: But I’ve done some good things too, haven’t I?
KATE: You’ve been Jack Campbell. And that’s always a good thing. She kisses him on the cheek. He takes her arms in his hands and looks her in the I need you to remember me, Kate. How I am right now, right this very moment. I need you to put that image in your heart and keep it with you, no matter what Are you okay, Jack?
JACK: I need you to remember me, Kate. How I am right now, right this very moment. I need you to put that image in your heart and keep it with you, no matter what Are you okay, Jack?
KATE: Are you okay, Jack?
JACK: Please, just promise me you’ll do that. You have to promise, Kate. Because if you don’t, then it’s like it never happened and I don’t think I could live with She’s a bit confused but she couldn’t be more in love with him.
KATE: I promise, Jack.
JACK: Promise me again.
KATE: I promise. Come to bed, Jack stands up, heading toward the door.
JACK: 114 EXT. SUBURBAN STREET - LATE NIGHT Snow begins to fall. Jack with Lucy on a leash, walking side by side, his mind elsewhere. Lucy leads him around a corner.to a large open Lucy stops. She looks back at Jack, then out to the open field. Jack removes the leash. The dog bounds happily out into the field, looking for just the right spot. Jack puts his hands in his coat pocket.pulls out a half-eaten roll of PEPPERMINT LIFESAVERS, puts one in his mouth. He looks up at the sky, snow gently falling onto his face. It’s cold, but it’s beautiful.peaceful and still.the air clean and crisp. He breathes in the fresh air, the Lifesaver dissolving in his mouth, watching the dog.
JACK: ( groggy, dazed ) Yeah.okay, send her He drops the phone.turns back over.let’s his eyes stay closed for another moment.then. His eyes open. He looks around.sees his shirtless torso.then his old apartment.tailored clothes on the floor.
PAULA: Waiting for me by the door, Jack looks at her.
JACK: Paula opens her coat – the only thing she has on underneath is a sexy little teddy.
PAULA: ( smiling ) Merry Christmas.
JACK: ( confused ) Christmas? It can’t be Jack stares at her, totally confused.
PAULA: ( lasciviously ) It’s whatever you want it to be, Jack. Jack grabs a leather jacket then walks right by a shocked Paula and heads out the door, practically running down the corridor.
MAN: Can I help you?
JACK: Is Kate here? Does Kate live Kate? No, there’s no one here named Kate. Is that good enough for you? Jack starts rapping his head against the door post, much to the shock of the guy standing there.
MAN: Kate? No, there’s no one here named Kate. Is that good enough for you? Jack starts rapping his head against the door post, much to the shock of the guy standing there.
JACK: Hey, are you okay?
MAN: Hey, are you okay?
JACK: No.I’m not.
MAN: Is there anything I can do for you? Jack shakes his head mournfully.
JACK: I’m sorry, no. Jack walks off, beleaguered.
ARNIE: ( shouting at Jack ) Hey, you can’t park that thing here.
JACK: ( out the window ) It’s me, Jack.
ARNIE: I don’t care if you’re Tim Allen with your fancy car and all your tools, you still can’t park here.
JACK: Tell me you recognize me, Arnie. Please.
ARNIE: How’d you know my name?
JACK: We bowl together. We’re bowlers .we won a championship.we’re winners.
ARNIE: I never won anything in Arnie peers at Jack through the window.
JACK: Yes.Jack Campbell.
ARNIE: Of course. Jack Campbell. I went to high school with you.you played baseball, You’re doing well.
JACK: ( remembering ) Yes, that’s it.yes, we went to high school together.
ARNIE: You never really talked to me. I wanted to talk to you, man.
JACK: Yeah.I guess I just wanted you to know, we could’ve been really good Jack driving.a CELL PHONE RINGS. A curious look on Jack’s face, it’s been a while since he’s heard that sound.
JACK: ( answering phone ) Hey Santa, where are you? Everybody’s here.
JACK: ADELLE ( O.S. ) You were supposed to be here half an hour ago.the emergency strategy session? Your trip to Aspen? They’re all panicked here. Silence from Jack.
JACK: I’ll be there in twenty CUT TO: It’s a beehive of activity. Jack’s TEAM, anxiously going over reports and flow charts, working the phones, drinking coffee. Jack enters, still reeling from his experience, taking a moment to observe the action. Mintz spots him.
ALAN: ( into phone ) Thank god, Jack’s here. I’ll call you right back. He hangs up the phone as all eyes in the room turn to Jack, immediately fixating on how disheveled he looks.
JACK: ( in a daze ) What’s going on here?
ALAN: It’s not good. Bob Thomas has secretly been talking to a European drug company. We’re not sure which one, Julia’s on it right now. Word is they’re willing to let him buy a minority stake and keep running the entire company. The Global people are up in arms. They say we should’ve been prepared for this. We’re in trouble here, Jack. Jack looks at Alan for a minute.
JACK: You know something, Alan. There’s a much more assertive person somewhere inside of Alan looks at him, confused.
ALAN: Excuse me?
JACK: But I think I like you better this way.
ALAN: Is this another one of those Sun Tzu “Art of War” tricks? A sad laugh from Jack.
JACK: So what are we gonna do, Jack wallows for another moment in his own sadness.
ALAN: So what are we gonna do, Jack wallows for another moment in his own sadness.
JACK: I’ll tell you exactly what we’re going to do. You’re going to do whatever you have to do to find out which European company he’s been talking to. Then I’m going to clean myself up, fly to Aspen, and drink egg nog with Bob Thomas. His wife and kids will be playing in the background while I spend Christmas day convincing him that the European company is the devil and Global is the answer to his prayers, after Then I’m going to spend four hours skiing. Alone. On Christmas day. Completely and utterly alone. I’m going to do that because that is my life, that is what’s real, and there is nothing I can do to change that. Jack leaves the office to the shocked stares of his Jack’s limo makes its way downtown.
JACK: ( dialing 411 ) For Manhattan.Kate Reynolds.I need an address Jack jots something down on a business card. Then he hangs up the phone, thinks a moment, looks out the window, then turns to the driver.
DRIVER: But the airport’s the other We’re not going to the CUT TO: 123A EXT. KATE’S BUILDING - DAY Jack’s limo pulls up outside this house on Washington Jack gets out.
JACK: We’re not going to the CUT TO: 123A EXT. KATE’S BUILDING - DAY Jack’s limo pulls up outside this house on Washington Jack gets out.
LORI: Are you from the shipping I’m Jack Campbell.I’m an old. friend of Kate’s. I just called. The woman looks at him, then walks back inside.
JACK: I’m Jack Campbell.I’m an old. friend of Kate’s. I just called. The woman looks at him, then walks back inside.
JACK: Jack.God, it’s been so long.You look. She searches for a kind word, but he looks terrible.
KATE: Jack.God, it’s been so long.You look. She searches for a kind word, but he looks terrible.
JACK: You look great.
KATE: It’s good to see you. She looks at him another moment, then turns.
JACK: ( bending down ) I'm sorry.
KATE: Don’t worry about it, Jack. Jack looks up at.a beehive of activity – Lori on the phone, boxes stacked everywhere, TWO MOVERS packing What’s going on?
JACK: What’s going on?
KATE: ( searching around ) I’m moving to Paris.it was right here. ( to Lori ) It’s a box marked “Jack.” I put it in the stack for the Salvation Army.
JACK: ( to Kate, with Do you want me to look for the box or call the airline?
LORI: ( to Kate, with Do you want me to look for the box or call the airline?
KATE: Hey, kind of under a little pressure here.
LORI: Hey, kind of giving up Christmas day for my ex-boss Jack watches this back and forth.
KATE: You didn’t seem to mind offering to help me on Christmas day when you were unwrapping that Prada bag I gave you.
LORI: Maybe it’s by the wardrobe Kate heads over to some tall wardrobe boxes.
JACK: You’re moving.
KATE: Uh huh. To Paris. My firm has an office there and I’m going to be heading it up.
JACK: ( stunned ) To Paris. Paris, France.
KATE: ( searching the That’s the one.
JACK: So you’re not at a non- profit firm?
KATE: ( a chuckle ) Not with what they pay me.
JACK: You’re not married, are No, Jack, I never got married. You?
KATE: No, Jack, I never got married. You?
JACK: Not exactly. Can we just take a minute here? Maybe get a cup of coffee or something.?
LORI: ( yelling ) I’ll go for a cup of coffee!
KATE: A relieved smile from Jack.
LORI: Congratulations. The La Guardia flight’s canceled but I got you out of Kennedy on United at nine. Am I good or what? Jack’s smile disappears as Kate hands him a sealed box marked, “Jack”.
KATE: Here you go. It’s just some old things of yours. Jack stands here, looking at the box, then at Kate.
JACK: Do you ever think about us, Kate? About what might have happened.? A bemused LAUGH from Kate. Then she sees he’s not You’re serious. A nod from Jack.
KATE: You’re serious. A nod from Jack.
JACK: Sure. Goodbye, Kate. He leaves.
JACK: ( calling out ) Kate turns and sees Jack, a look of puzzlement on her You can’t go!
KATE: Jesus, Jack.
JACK: Don’t get on that plane!
KATE: Please. Let’s just go have a cup of coffee. That’s all I’m asking for. I’m sure there’s another flight to Paris tonight.
JACK: Please. Let’s just go have a cup of coffee. That’s all I’m asking for. I’m sure there’s another flight to Paris tonight.
KATE: What do you want from me? You want me to tell you everything that happened was okay? Jack just stands there, unsure.
JACK: ( at Kate ) We have a house in Jersey! Kate turns to him with a look that could kill.
KATE: Don’t do this, Jack. But he continues.
JACK: We have two kids, Annie and .Kate looks at him, half-mortified, half- .Annie’s not much of a violin player but she tries really hard. She’s a little precocious but that’s only because she says what’s on her mind. And when she Jack shakes his head, remembering, fighting back the And Josh.he has your eyes. He doesn’t say much but we know he’s smart. .he’s always got his eyes open, always watching us. sometimes you can look at him and just know that he’s learning something new. it’s like witnessing a Kate’s expression has sifted from annoyance to .the house is a mess, but it’s ours. .well, after a hundred twenty two more payments it will be. Jack begins walking slowly toward Kate.the world of the airport going on around him, Jack not caring.
KATE: Okay, Jack.
