FOX: What'd the doctor say?
(REASSURINGLY): I told you. You probably just ate some bad gristle. Fox brushes the fur on Mrs. Fox's ears with his paws. They walk together along the crest of the hill to a fork in the path. Fox points:
FOX: Should we take the short cut or the scenic route?
FOX: But the scenic route is so much prettier.
(SHRUGS): OK, let's take the scenic route.
FOX: Great. It's actually slightly quicker, anyway. Fox throws his apple core away over his shoulder and dances a quick circle around Mrs. Fox, wrapping his arm around her waist extravagantly and making her laugh as they start off down the scenic route.
FOX: You know what a squab is. It's like a pigeon, I suppose. Anyway, it's a type of bird we can eat. Fox motions toward the edge of the property.
FOX: Should we go through the hole under the horse fence or climb the rail over the bridle path?
FOX: But the bridle path puts us out right next to the squab shack. Mrs. Fox hesitates. She fiddles with her paws. She nods nervously. She shakes slightly. Fox looks at her funny.
FOX: What's wrong? I've never seen you like this. You're acting all skittish. Don't worry. I've been stealing birds for a living since before I could trot.
(SHRUGS): OK, let's take the --
FOX: No, we'll do the horse fence. You gave me the scenic route already. Fox flashes a smile. He says suddenly:
FOX: By the way, you look unbelievably beautiful tonight. You're practically glowing. Maybe it's the lighting.
FOX: What's that? I think that's a fox-trap! Look at this.
FOX: Is it spring-loaded? Yeah... (pointing to different spots) I guess if you come from over there, and you're standing at the door to the squab shack, this little gadget probably triggers the -- (gesturing to Mrs. Fox) Move out of the way, darling. That's right where it's going to land. Mrs. Fox runs back to Fox and tugs at his arm.
FOX: No, it just falls straight down right here, doesn't it? I guess it's not spring- loaded. Sounds come from around the farm: the dog barks, doors open, voices yell, lights come on. Mrs. Fox turns to Fox and says
FOX: Wow. We're going to have a cub. Honey, that's great news!
CUT TO:: A wide shot of the entire valley. There are thick woods, green and yellow fields, two ponds, a small village, and a river running through the middle.
TITLE:: 2 YEARS LATER ( 12 Fox-Years)
INSERT:: A column in the newspaper with Fox's picture at the top of it. The caption reads: Fox about Town with Fantastic Mr. Fox.
FOX: Does anybody actually read my column? Do your friends ever talk about it?
(STILL STIRRING): Of course. In fact, Rabbit's ex- girlfriend just said to me last week, "I should read Foxy's column," but they don't get the Gazette. (yelling into the next room) Ash! Let's get cracking!
FOX: Why would they? It's a rag-sheet.
(SIGHS): I want to say I hate my job, but that would make it seem more important to me than I want people to think it is. Mrs. Fox puts down her bowl and starts slicing a loaf of bread. A small, narrow fox cub comes out of one of the bedrooms wearing white pants and no shirt. His hair is smashed all onto one side sticking up wrong. He is Ash.
ASH: I'm sick.
ASH: I have a temperature. Mrs. Fox goes quickly over to Ash and puts her paw to his forehead.
ASH: I don't want to go.
FOX: I love the way you handled that. Mrs. Fox looks at Fox sideways. She says loudly to Ash:
ASH: Where's he going to sleep?
ASH: I can't spare the space. Put him in Dad's study. Fox says without looking up from his newspaper:
FOX: Dad's study is occupied by Dad. Ash goes back into his bedroom. Fox lowers his newspaper. He looks around the room. He says to Mrs. Fox:
FOX: I don't want to live in a hole anymore. It makes me feel poor. Mrs. Fox stops buttering the toast. She looks to Fox and says
FOX: Comme-ci, comme-ga. Anyway, the views are better above ground. Mrs. Fox nods. She brings Fox a plate of toast and a cup of coffee. Fox takes her paw and says:
FOX: I'm seven non-fox-years old now. My father died at seven and a half. I don't want to live in a hole anymore, and I'm going to do something about it. Fox kisses Mrs. Fox's paw. He suddenly eats three slices of toast in a second and a half, savagely but neatly. He stands and picks up his cup of coffee.
FOX: Well, I'm off. Fox throws back the last of his coffee, kisses Mrs. Fox on the back of her neck, grabs his briefcase, tucks his newspaper under his arm, and walks to the door. He shouts
FOX: Have a good day, my darlings! Ash comes out the bedroom again. He has now added a white cape to his ensemble and is in the middle of brushing his teeth. There is toothpaste all over his mouth. He waves briefly to Fox and goes back into his bedroom. Fox looks puzzled.
FOX: What's he wearing? Mrs. Fox shrugs. She smiles sadly and waves to Fox. Fox waves back. He starts to go out but pauses to look down at a folded up section of his newspaper.
INSERT:: A clipping from the real estate section. There is a photograph of a wide, sprawling beech tree at the top of a hill. A caption below it reads: Tree Living, Great Views, Classic Beech
WEASEL: Obviously, it's first growth, indigenous. Original dirt floor, good bark, skipping stone hearth -- Weasel is interrupted by a loud banging clank. He and Fox peer into the next room. A heavy-set opossum with a cowlick tinkers with some pipes under the kitchen sink. He is Kylie. Weasel snaps at him:
WEASEL: What'd I tell you? I'm showing the property. You're not supposed to be here.
KYLIE: (checking his watch) Oh, cuss. What time is it? I'm sorry. Weasel sighs. He waves his arm in Kylie's direction and says distractedly, slightly annoyed:
WEASEL: This is Kylie. He's the super. (aside to Fix) He's a little -- Weasel makes a fluttering gesture with his paw. Fox nods. He points at a bucket on the floor next to Kylie among bolts, tools, and washers.
FOX: What's in the bucket, Mr. Kylie?
(HESITATES): Just minnows. You want one?
FOX: Certainly. Thank you. Kylie reaches into his bucket and hands Fox a live, wriggling minnow. Fox swallows it whole. Fox stares out the window at three sprawling poultry compounds in the distance. Black smoke pours out of a farmhouse chimney on each property. A sign on a water tower in the first compound reads Boggis Farms and has a picture of a chicken on it. A sign on a silo in the second compound reads Bunce Industries and has a picture of a goose on it. A sign on a windmill in the third compound reads Bean, inc.
WEASEL: May I ask what you do for a living, Mr. Fox? Fox's eyes narrow as he looks out, entranced, with his mouth slightly open. He says almost inaudibly:
FOX: I used to steal birds, but now I'm a newspaper man.
(PLEASED): Oh, sure. I've seen your by-line. Fox snaps out of his reverie and says suddenly:
FOX: Good afternoon, gentlemen. Fox shakes hands abruptly with Weasel and starts across the room. Weasel is about to ask something when Fox stops in the doorway, looks back, and says:
FOX: Oh, and Kylie -- thank you for the minnow. It was superb. Kylie smiles. Fox exits.
BADGER: Don't buy this tree, Foxy. You're borrowing at nine and a half, which stinks like cuss, plus moving into the most dangerous neighborhood in the
BADGER (CONT'D): country for someone of your type of species.
FOX: You're exaggerating, Badger.
(YELLING): Bull-cuss! I'm sugar-coating it, man! This is Boggis, Bunce, and Bean! Three of the meanest, nastiest, ugliest farmers in the history of this valley! An uneasy otter secretary peers in at them from the outer office. Fox looks intrigued.
FOX: Really? Tell me about them. Silence. Badger sighs. He loosens his tie and settles in.
BADGER: All right...
CUT TO:: A fat man with a huge moustache. He wears a tweed suit which stretches at the buttons so much that they look like they are about to snap off. He holds a carbine rifle. He stands in front of his farm, which contains row upon row of chicken houses. He has an ugly face. He is Boggis.
CUT TO:: A short, overweight man with one slightly wandering eye. He wears overalls and a cap. He holds a twelve-gauge shotgun. He stands in front of his farm, which consists of several long buildings in rows like a factory. He has a nasty face. He is Bunce.
CUT TO:: A tall, skinny man in a long trench-coat. He holds a Luger pistol. He stands in front of his farm, which is an apple orchard that stretches over thousands of acres. He has a mean face. He is Bean.
CUT TO:: Fox and Badger in Badger's office.
BADGER: In summation, I think you just got to not do it, man. That's all.
FOX: I understand what you're saying, and your comments are valuable, but I'm going to ignore your advice. Badger leaps out of his chair and slams the office door. He points his finger at Fox and screams:
BADGER: The cuss you are!
(IN DISBELIEF): The cuss am I? Fox jumps up and points back at Badger, screaming:
FOX: Don't cussing point at me!
(SCREAMING): Are you cussing with me?
(SCREAMING): Do I look like I'm cussing with you? Fox and Badger begin to snarl and snap savagely, knocking into the furniture as they circle around the room pointing in each other's faces. Suddenly, they calm down all at once, sighing deeply. Pause.
FOX: One last thing: something's probably about to happen to me at work which I can't put my finger on but have a funny feeling about. How can I protect myself legally?
(PAUSE): Are you about to get fired?
(SHRUGS): Slash quit.
CUT TO:: A door with a frosted glass window. Letters painted on it read Gazette, Editor-in-Chief, Phillip Squirrel. Fox's silhouette stands across from that of a small squirrel sitting at a desk. The squirrel's silhouette says in a
SQUIRREL: You're fired.
FOX: Slash I quit. Here's my letter of resignation. Fox's silhouette throws an envelope onto the squirrel's desk.
MONTAGE:: Two muskrats in orange moving company uniforms unloads boxes and furniture from a wagon and carries them into the tree. Fox holds open the front door and barks orders at them. Two muskrats in white painter's uniforms paints the walls of the living room and the trim around the windows with rollers and brushes. Fox stands on the drop-cloth and barks orders at them.
INSERT:: A binocular shot of an industrial shack with Boggis Chicken House #1 stencilled on the front of it. Fox lowers the binoculars. His eyes sparkle.
ASH: Watch this, Dad! Fox looks up. Ash leaps into the air and does a spectacularly awkward back-flip during which he appears to have four arms and three legs randomly attached to his body, flailing wildly. He hits the water by the side of his head and smacks into the surface back-first with a pained yelp. Fox grimaces. He claps mildly. (NOTE: an alternate version of Ash with four arms and three legs randomly attached to his body will be used for this stunt.)
FOX: Good jump, Ash! Remember to keep your tail tucked! Fox looks at Mrs. Fox's canvas. It is a picture of the pond and landscape in severe weather with black clouds and lightning bolts. It is signed Felicity Fox. Fox raises an eyebrow.
FOX: Still painting thunderstorms, I see. Fox sees a small, Samsonite suitcase on the ground next to a pair of yellow sneakers. He frowns.
FOX: Whose suitcase is that? A boy's voice shouts from the high tree branch:
KRISTOFFERSON: Hello, everyone! Good afternoon! Fox, Mrs. Fox, and Ash look up, surprised. A second Fox cub stands poised on the edge of the limb. He is taller, leaner, sleeker, and it is immediately apparent even by his posture infinitely more graceful than Ash. He is Kristofferson. He wears a professional Speedo with a patch on it that says Swim Team. Fox brightens.
FOX: Kristofferson! Welcome to our little tree! I see you brought your swimming trunks! Kristofferson steps off the branch and performs a reserved but perfect jack-knife. He enters the water splashlessly. Fox leaps to his feet, applauding with his paws above his head, whistling and hollering:
FOX: Look at that! This kid's a natural! I'm speechless, Kristofferson! Kristofferson smiles modestly and shrugs. Ash stares at him stonily. Fox turns to Mrs. Fox.
FOX: Plus, he knows karate.
ASH: Do you think I'm an athlete?
FOX: (without looking up) What are you talking about?
ASH: Well, you know, I think I'm an athlete, and sometimes I feel like you guys don't see me that way.
FOX: What's the sub-text here? Ash thinks for a minute. He looks at Kristofferson in the next room. Kristofferson is now sitting Indian-style on the floor meditating. His paws are turned upward with his thumbs touching his index fingers forming a ring. Ash says loudly to Mrs. Fox in the kitchen:
ASH: How long is Kristofferson supposed to stay with us?
ASH: Right, but roughly how long do we plan to give him on that? Double-pneumonia isn't even really that big of a deal, is it? In the background, Kristofferson stands up again and starts practicing violent karate kicks. Mrs. Fox leans into the doorway and whispers forcefully:
ASH: Right, but -- Kristofferson yells suddenly as he does a spinning double- kick with a chop:
KRISTOFFERSON: Ki-ya! Everyone looks startled. Kristofferson resumes his tae-kwon- do practice with an angry, wounded look on his face. Mrs. Fox
FOX: Kids are crazy, aren't they? You got to try it, though. Raising a family.
KYLIE: Yeah. Sometimes I feel like maybe I
FOX: What do you think of this tree, by the way? It's great, huh?
(HESITATES): Yeah. No, I was just saying how some-
FOX: I have one last part of what I was about to say.
KYLIE: OK. Go ahead.
FOX: I'm going broke. You want to help me steal some chickens?
CUT TO:: Fox's study, the next morning. A map of the valley with notes and arrows written all over it is spread across a desk. The door is closed with a towel jammed under it. A cricket match plays loudly on the radio. Fox sits in his armchair. Kylie sits in a creaky rocking chair.
FOX: I used to do this professionally, and I was very successful at it. I had to get out of it for personal reasons, but I've decided to secretly quit my job slash got fired to pursue it again. I'm bringing you in as my secretary and personal assistant.
(PRICKLY): This is actually kind of a big deal, so don't just say, "OK!"
KYLIE: OK. Well, thank you.
FOX: (clearing is throat) I'm going totape this formyrecords,so don't make a lot of sounds --meaning stop rocking.
(DEFENSIVELY): Well, maybe we ought to turn off the radio, then. That's noisier than --
FOX: I don't want people to eavesdrop on us, Kylie. Let me just tell this. Kylie stops rocking. Fox presses record on a tape recorder.
FOX: Master Plan. Phase one. Side A.
CUT TO:: That night. Fox stands on a rock at the edge of the woods looking through his binoculars. He lowers them and gives a hand-signal. Kylie joins him, and they start out along the moonlit ridge. Fox wears a dark car-coat and a black cap. Kylie has on a navy ski-hat.
(INTERRUPTING): Why not?
KYLIE: Beagles aren't so tough.
(ANNOYED): Yeah? Well, first of all, one of these beagles has chronic rabies, which he's on medication for, and if you get bit by him you have to get shots in your stomach for six months. And, second -- listen, I'm not going to justify this to you. Just pay attention and stop interrupting me. I'm taping this.
INSERT:: Fox's paws meticulously sprinkle a powdered mickey into a dissected blueberry and stitch it shut with red thread.
CUT TO:: Fox and Kylie in Fox's study earlier that afternoon. They now smoke pipes.
KYLIE: How do we make them eat it?
FOX: (smiling, with utter certainty) Beagles love blueberries.
CUT TO:: Fox and Kylie in Fox's study earlier that afternoon. They now drink whiskey sours. Fox repeats:
FOX: One bite, get it? Fox waits for Kylie to respond. Kylie does not. Fox frowns.
FOX: Are you listening to me? I look into your eyes and I can't tell whether you're getting anything I'm saying. Kylie stares at Fox vacantly. He shrugs. (NOTE: an alternate set of eyeballs will be used for any shots indicating Kylie's vacant look.)
FOX: A few beagles, as we discussed, but we're ready for that. Fox and Kylie cross a dirt lane and come out of a shallow ditch. Fox licks the pinky of his paw and holds it up in the air.
FOX: You feel that? The wind's in our faces.
KYLIE: Yeah, back in the old days, didn't they used to do a thing where if somebody saw a wolf, and --
(STARTLED): What wolf? Fox stops in his tracks. His eyes dart about. Kylie looks at him curiously.
FOX: Oh, nothing? Never mind. Fox and Kylie veer off into shorter grasses. Fox points ahead, regaining his composure:
FOX: Here comes the low stone wall. Not a problem. Fox and Kylie climb over a low stone wall and find themselves at the base of a chain-link fence eleven feet high.
FOX: This is a chain-link fence, I guess. Did I not remember this? Maybe it's new. Let's pause.
(SUDDENLY ANGRY): What the cuss? Where'd this giant fence come from? We had a master plan! Kylie motions to a yellow, plywood lightning bolt posted to the fence.
KYLIE: What's this lightning bolt stand for?
FOX: Give me a second! I said, "Let's pause"! Pause. Fox pulls himself together. He turns to look at the plywood lightning bolt.
FOX: That, I guess, hypothetically, could mean maybe this fence might be electric.
KYLIE: Well, I just hope it doesn't mean thunder. I have a phobia of that. Fox and Kylie climb a tree and crouch at the end of one of its branches. Fox produces a zip-loc bag filled with blueberries with white thread stitched into them.
FOX: Watch this. Fox puts a blueberry into the end of a straw and shoots it out into the barnyard.
CUT TO:: The blueberry landing on the ground in front of Chicken House #1. A beagle approaches it and sniffs at it. He eats it. He looks very pleased. He falls over, out cold.
CUT TO:: Fox with an ecstatic expression on his face. He rapidly shoots more and more blueberries across the barnyard. Beagles eat blueberries and fall over, one after another. Fox and Kylie drop down into the barnyard and head for Chicken House #1. Fox whispers excitedly as they run:
FOX: Beagles love blueberries! Didn't I tell you? The master plan's working again! Kylie raises his fist enthusiastically and trips over an unconscious beagle. He picks himself up quickly, and they weave among the rest of the beagles. They reach the entrance to the chicken house, open the door, and duck inside. Pause. There is an eruption of crazed squawking, screaming, and fighting from inside. The chicken house rumbles. Lights jolt on across the compound. An alarm goes off. Voices yell. The chicken house door swings open again, and Fox and Kylie emerge among a cloud of feathers. Fox carries two dead chickens, and Kylie has one live one. Fox yells:
FOX: I said one bite, cuss it!
KYLIE: I'm trying! I have a different kind of teeth from you! I'm an opossum!
KYLIE: That's so grisly! There's blood and everything!
(DEFENSIVELY): We're killing chickens! There's going to be blood in this story! Follow me! Fox and Kylie dash to the electric fence. They stop in front of it. Kylie looks to Fox.
KYLIE: What's the master escape plan? Fox hesitates, confused. A gunshot fires from among the chicken houses. Fox shouts to Kylie:
FOX: Follow me again! Fox and Kylie run back across the barnyard, past the beagles as they begin to wake up and stagger around. Farmhands appear, loading shotguns and running into the confusion. Fox and Kylie race by, unnoticed, among them. They dart into the house through a flap in the back door. The lights are out in the kitchen. They take a moment, breathing hard in the darkness. Kylie shakes his head in disbelief.
KYLIE: Wow. That was amazing. How did we do that? We ran the other way or something.
FOX: Yeah.
KYLIE: What happens now?
FOX: I have no idea. Fox opens the door-flap a crack. He looks out and sees Boggis opening the front gate to let out his beagles and farmhands, barking and shooting, as they search for the intruders. Fox shouts to Kylie:
FOX: Holy cuss! They opened the gate! Follow me again! Lightning quick, Fox and Kylie burst out through the door- flap, race across the barnyard, and dart through the open gate. Up the road, Boggis screams furiously as he runs with his pack of beagles and farmhands. Fox and Kylie fly into the bushes. As they race through the underbrush Fox says
FOX: Let's hit the five and dime on the way home! We need to make some fake price tags and wrap these chickens in wax-paper so it looks like we got them at the butcher shop! Fox and Kylie howl ecstatically.
MONTAGE:: A fox's paw lifts a silver dome off a perfectly roasted chicken with an apple in its mouth. Fox and Mrs. Fox sit at a candle-lit table eating chicken and drinking wine. Ash, Kristofferson, and Kylie sit at a slightly miniature table eating chicken and drinking milk. Fox laughs hysterically as he tells his wife a story. Wine comes out of his nose. Fox and Kylie dash out the door of Boggis' Chicken House #7 carrying three more dead chickens. Lights jolt on. Farmhands run out firing shotguns. Fox and Kylie escape through a hole cut into the electric fence. Fox and Kylie dash out the window of Bunce's Poultry Barn C carrying two dead ducks and a goose. Alarms ring. Farmhands run out firing pistols. Fox and Kylie escape through a hole knocked into a brick wall. Fox and Kylie dash out the gates of Bean's Apple Orchard XII carrying two dead turkeys and a basket of apples. Automatic doors close. Farmhands run out firing rifles. Fox and Kylie escape through a hole chopped into a burning barricade. Fox and Kylie run full-speed through a clover field in the dark. The camera zooms in slowly on their faces as they ford a stream, leap a fallen hawthorn, and cross into the willow glade. They look exhilarated.
(SHRUGS): I picked it up at the Five-and-Dime last night on my way back from --
(HESITATES): Huh. Must've escaped from there before I bought it.
KYLIE: What's that?
ASH: This? Nothing. Just some old trophy I won for being an athlete. Fox and Mrs. Fox sit at the adults' table. Fox guzzles down a last sip of wine and says with his mouth full of food:
FOX: I'm supposed to cover this book party at some animal's nest in a tobacco field down the hill, so me and Kylie are going to hop over there and give it a whirl. Don't wait up. Fox pulls his napkin out of his collar, drops it on the table, and stands up. Mrs. Fox asks cooly:
(HESITATES): Some memoir. I'll get him to sign you a copy. Fox kisses Mrs. Fox on the cheek. She looks at him suspiciously.
FOX: Dinner was -- (doing a little gesture) -- pitch-perfect.
FOX: I spotted a couple of broken burglar bars underneath the back door to Bean's secret cider cellar.
KYLIE: We're breaking into Bean's house?
(HESITATES): Cellar.
KYLIE: Where he lives?
(HESITATES): Where he keeps the cider.
(BRIGHTLY): Below where he lives. Ash, dressed in his own prowling outfit, is walking with Fox and Kylie. Fox stops short:
FOX: Where'd you come from? Go back to the tree and do your homework!
ASH: I want to help you steal some cider.
(ANGRILY): We're going to a book party! And keep your mouth shut about any cider, because no one ever said that! Get out of here!
ASH: But Dad --
FOX: But nothing! You're going to get me in a lot of trouble! The three animals stand in silence for a minute. Fox points to his tree. Ash turns and starts back home. Fox shakes his head.
FOX: Where the cuss does that kid get off? Can you believe that? How'd he get tipped off? You think he's going to tell on us? Fox turns to Kylie. Kylie looks back at him vacantly.
FOX: Before we go any further, from now on can you give me some kind of signal once in a while just so I know any of this is getting through to you? Pause. Kylie makes a slight motion with his paw. Fox hesitates.
FOX: Was that it? OK.
KYLIE: One time this wolf --
(IRRITATED): What's with all the wolf talk? Can we give it a rest, for once? Fox climbs onto a garbage pail and pulls open a window shutter. He and Kylie shimmy in-between two bent burglar bars.
KYLIE: Look at all this apple juice.
(STERNLY): Apple juice? Apple juice? We didn't come here for apple juice. This is some of the strongest, finest alcoholic cider money can buy -- or that can even be stolen. It burns in your throat, boils in your stomach, and tastes almost exactly like pure, melted gold.
(SUDDENLY): Let's crack open one these 'shine jars and do a shooter. A match strikes in the darkness. Fox and Kylie look around the room frantically. On the highest shelf, peering out from behind a huge jar, they see an enormous rat in a striped shirt with a lit match in his claw. He puts the flame in his mouth to snuff it out and holds the matchstick in his teeth. He is longer than a fox and wiry, but with a small pot-belly. He wears a black beret and moves like a beatnik. He takes a draw from a small rubber tube inserted in the neck of his cider jar. He says with a slightly sinister New
RAT: Y'all are trespassin', now. Illegally. 'Round these parts, we don't take kindly to cider poachers. Fox and Rat stare at each other. Fox says, finally:
FOX: You've aged badly, Rat.
RAT: You're gettin' a little long in the tooth, yourself, partner. Rat spins around and hurls himself scuttling over a shelf, down the wall, and through the air onto the brick floor at Fox's feet. He flicks open a switchblade and brandishes it. He hisses.
RAT: How's your old lady doin'? Kylie peers out from his hole in the wall nervously. Fox and Rat circle each other slowly.
FOX: Do you refer to my wife?
RAT: She was the town tart, in her day. Wild and foot-loose and pretty as a mink stole. She was a creme brulee -- until you made an honest woman out of her, Mr. Fox. Kylie says, intrigued, from his hole:
KYLIE: Is that true?
(ANNOYED): Of course, not. I mean, certainly, she lived. We all did. It was a different time. Let's not use a double-standard. She marched against the --
KYLIE: But town tart?
FOX: Shut up. Rat lunges at Fox with his switchblade. Fox dodges nimbly. He cocks an eyebrow and smiles:
FOX: That was close, Rat. Be careful.
RAT: Oh, I'm as careful as a -- A door at the top of the stairs opens suddenly with a loud creak. Rat and Fox look terrified. They both dart away and hide behind cider jars. A heavy-set, middle-aged housekeeper carrying a rolling pin comes down the stairs and walks straight over to the shelf where Fox is hiding.
HOUSEKEEPER: How many jars should I bring up, ma'am? A strong, almost masculine woman's voice answers from
MASCULINE VOICE: I don't know. Two, I guess. The housekeeper grabs the two jars directly next to the one Fox is hiding behind and tucks them under her arm. Fox tenses his body. He shivers slightly. A graze of the red fur of his arm sticks out barely from behind his jar. The housekeeper hesitates.
HOUSEKEEPER: He drank three yesterday, ma'am.
MASCULINE VOICE: All right, take three. The housekeeper grabs Fox's jar. Fox closes his eyes.
MASCULINE VOICE: No, don't. The housekeeper stops with her hand on the neck of Fox's jar.
MASCULINE VOICE: Three's too many. It's unhealthy. He's anorexic. Bring two. The housekeeper lets go of Fox's jar. Fox relaxes slightly. The housekeeper grabs Fox's jar again. Fox tenses up.
HOUSEKEEPER: But maybe, just in case --
MASCULINE VOICE: Two's plenty. The housekeeper lets go of Fox's jar and walks away. She goes back up the stairs and closes the door. Kylie says in the
KYLIE: Oh, my cuss. That was like a scene out of
A --: The door opens again. An exceptionally tall, powerfully built woman in a black dress and Wellingtons, with grey hair pulled- back in a bun, bright green eyes, and a meat cleaver tucked under her apron strings comes swiftly down the stairs. She
RAT: Dear Mrs. Bean, your language, while somewhat purple, is nevertheless impossible to misinterpret. However -- comma -- given the proximity of said rat at the moment of your -- The door at the top the stairs opens again. Silence.
CUT TO:: Fox and Kylie running away from Bean's farmhouse with two jars of cider. They both look badly shaken. A gunshot rings out taking us to:
BEAN: I'm going to give a speech, and at the end of it -- I'm going to throw a twist into this plot. Bean lights a cigarette and begins to walk slowly around the porch.
BEAN: First truth: this is the most ambitious fox we've ever encountered, bar none. Bean spins around and shoots out a second light bulb. Boggis and Bunce look uneasy. Bean continues:
BEAN: Second truth: the meaning of ambition is defined in the dictionary. Bean jumps and rolls and shoots out a third light bulb.
BEAN: Third truth: the weakness of the ambitious man is his Achilles heel -- Bean quickly shoots out three more light bulbs behind his back, over his shoulder, and between his legs. The porch goes dark. He flicks on a flashlight and points it in his two colleague's faces. They look scared. Bean says urgently:
BEAN: -- but I've already figured out where this fox lives, and tomorrow night we're going to camp in the bushes, wait for him to come out of the hole in his tree, and shoot the cuss to smithereens. How's that grab you, fellas? Boggis and Bunce hesitate. They nod and murmur their approval.
FOX: Woah! I didn't see you. Sitting in the dark over there. Yeah, no. Actually, there's a fire. I just got the call. They said maybe it's arson? I got to interview the marshall and see what's --
(FREAKING OUT): I don't want to be put in the middle of this.
(PAUSE): Thanks, Kylie.
(OMINOUSLY): -- it better not be.
CUT TO:: Boggis, Bunce, and Bean waiting crouched in the bushes. Bean licks his finger and holds it up to test the direction of the wind. He nods, points to his nose, and gives a thumbs-up to Boggis and Bunce.
FOX: Nice job covering for me. Next time
TRY --: A twig snaps. Fox freezes.
CUT TO:: Boggis, Bunce, and Bean frozen in the bushes.
CUT TO:: The branches of the trees as the wind suddenly changes its direction.
CUT TO:: Fox on high alert. He rapidly sniffs the air three times in a row. He turns to a confused Kylie and says, panicking:
FOX: All three! Fox and Kylie spin around and dart back into the hole as Boggis, Bunce, and Bean open fire wildly from the bushes. A barrage of bullets and buckshot rips into the tree-bark. Silence.
BEAN: We got the tail, but we missed the fox. Pause. Bean takes out his walkie-talkie.
BEAN: Petey? You and the boys sober up and get out here on the A.S.A.P. Bring eleven shovels, three pick-axes, 500 rounds of ammunition, and a bottle of apple cider.
ASH: It'll grow back, won't it?
KYLIE: (shaking his head) Tails don't grow back, except for lizards.
(MISERABLY): Tails don't grow back. I'm going to be tail-less for the rest of my life.
(NERVOUSLY): Well, anyway, it's not half as bad as double-pneumonia, right? (pointing to Kristofferson) His dad's got one foot in the grave and one foot on a banana peel. That's a lot worse than -- Kristofferson hurls an acorn violently onto the floor. It ricochets off a wall and into a teacup. Everyone falls silent. Kristofferson turns away.
KRISTOFFERSON: Excuse me, everyone. I'm going to go meditate for half an hour. Kristofferson walks out of the room. Mrs. Fox looks at Ash and says angrily:
FOX: What's with the crazy outfit? Why a cape and the pants tucked into your socks? Ash does not respond. Fox sighs. Mrs. Fox finishes bandaging his tail. Fox goes over to the wall and stands with his back to the room.
FOX: I got fired slash quit the Gazette and started stealing chickens on the sly.
(ICILY): That tail was the first thing I ever noticed about you. It was easily the most attractive tail for at least 50 miles in every direction. It was probably your single best quality -- and now it's gone forever.
CUT TO:: Fox lying in bed staring at the ceiling in the dark next to Mrs. Fox.
FOX: Why the cuss didn't I listen my lawyer? At this point we'll be lucky if we can flip this tree for half of what we've already sunk into it. Fox flips over onto his stomach.
FOX: I won't be able to sleep on my back for six weeks -- and on my stomach I feel congested. Why the cuss didn't I listen to my lawyer?
(BITTERLY): Because you don't listen to anybody.
FOX: (sitting up suddenly) What was that?
(PAUSE): What? I said -- There is a quiet scraping sound from above. Fox jumps out of bed. He hollers:
FOX: Wake up! Everybody! They're digging us out! There is a scrunch and then a loud thump from above. Mrs. Fox looks at Fox intensely:
(STEELY): Over my dead body, they will.
(ANGRILY): That's what I'm saying! You'd be dead, too, in that scenario!
(ANGRILY): Well, I'm arguing against that!
(SCREAMING): What are you talking about?
(SCREAMING): Why are you yelling at me?
(AGONIZED): Stop! Stop! Stop! Fox and Mrs. Fox turn quickly to Kylie standing in the doorway with a red blanket wrapped around his shoulders. Ash
KYLIE: You say one thing, she says another, and it all changes back again! The point of a shovel pierces the ceiling. Everyone looks up and stares in shock. Fox suddenly leaps across the room with a wild energy, scrambles halfway up a wall, and throws over two chairs.
FOX: I've got it! There's not a moment to lose! Why didn't I think of this before?
FOX: Think of the one thing a fox does quicker than a man, quicker than any other animal in the world! (at the top of his lungs)
CUT TO:: Everyone digging furiously. Dirt flies everywhere. The shot booms down into the ground, among the roots of the tree, through buried pebbles, layers of soil, and subterranean mineral deposits.
1 HOUR LATER: The shot stops at the bottom of a dark hole deep, deep underground. Mrs. Fox lies on the floor, breathing heavily, with a lit lantern at her side. The cubs are sprawled out around her. Kylie leans in the corner with his shirt off tied around his waist. Fox stands up and clears his throat. Everyone looks at him.
FOX: I think it's time for me to give us a pep talk and explain some things. (commencing a speech) A very long time ago --
(HESITATES): Well, we're in a hole. Where --
(PAUSE): When?
(PAUSE): Well, when -- Mrs. Fox scratches Fox across the face, slicing a quick sliver into his fur. Fox cringes away with his paws up protectively. He lowers his paws. His eyes fill with tears. (NOTE: the scar in Fox's fur never grows back.) Mrs. Fox takes a deep breath. She says:
(SIMPLY): Because I'm a wild animal.
(PAINED): I'm trying to tell you the truth about myself.
(SURPRISED): Predictable? Really? What happens in the end?
(QUIETLY): In the end, we all die -- unless you change. Mrs. Fox walks out of the air-pocket. Fox stands alone in silence.
BUNCE: These foxes dig like a bunch of hyperactive gophers.
BOGGIS: Franklin? You got another twist for this plot?
BEAN: Say that again?
BOGGIS: I say you got another -- Bean whips out his walkie-talkie and twirls it like a six- shooter. He presses a button on it and says:
BEAN: Petey? Get me the current contact info for Earl Malloy on the A.S.A.P.
(INTRIGUED): Who's Earl Malloy?
(INNOCENTLY): What? You mean over at Malloy Consolidated? Oh, he does rentals.
(PAUSE): What does he rent?
CUT TO:: Three yellow and black, murderous, brutal bulldozer digging- tractors with Malloy Consolidated painted on the sides of them. They make a terrible, high-pitched growling noise and spit black grease and smoke. Boggis, Bunce, and Bean stand among the tractors nodding giddily to each other. They scramble into the drivers' seats and begin ripping into the hillside. Bunce sits on a dictionary to see over the dashboard.
CUT TO:: Fox, Mrs. Fox, Kylie, Ash, and Kristofferson digging frantically.
CUT TO:: The tractors grabbing huge chunks of earth and tossing them into the meadow. Boggis, Bunce, and Bean, drunk with digging, laugh manically as the controls of their tractors.
BEAN: Let's kick some fox cuss!
BUNCE: I'm cussing loving this!
BOGGIS: Who's hyper-cussing-active now? Bean throws his tractor into top gear. The teeth of the giant shovels clank against each other, ripping through the tree's roots.
INSERT:: A temperature gauge with its needle pushing the limits of the red.
CUT TO:: A grizzled, white-haired man in a greasy yellow and black jumpsuit and coke-bottle protective eyeglasses. A patch on his pocket says E. Malloy. He watches the farmers digging crazily with the tractors. Sparks from the mayhem reflect dancing on his lenses.
EARL MALLOY: These machines weren't made to be handled like this.
DISSOLVE TO:: The hill with half its earth dug out from under the tree. The tree still stands precariously above the wild tractors.
DISSOLVE TO:: The hill now razed with the fallen, old beech tree laying on its side as the tractors dig deeper.
DISSOLVE TO:: The tractors almost completely below ground in a deep crater. A crowd of neighbors and local press from the town has gathered and watches as the tractors stop digging and rumble up out of the crater. The motors go quiet. Boggis, Bunce, and Bean climb down from their tractors. They look angry and tired. They stand among the workers and onlookers. A television reporter with an Action 13 camera crew confronts
REPORTER: Farmer, correct me if I'm misreading the data, you've successfully destroyed the scenery, but the alleged fox remains at large. What will you three prominent farmers do now?
BEAN: Well, Dan, I can tell you what we're not going to do. We're not going to let him go.
REPORTER: Are you concerned about the possibility
BEAN: I have no further dialogue in this scene. Bean turns away from the reporter and pulls Boggis and Bunce aside. He addresses them with calm intensity:
BEAN: I'm not going home until we smoke this son-of-a-cuss out his hole, string him up on a clothesline, and fly him like a kite. Boggis, how many men have you got working on your farm?
BOGGIS: Thirty-five.
BEAN: Bunce?
BUNCE: Thirty-six.
BEAN: And I've got thirty-seven. That's 108 men altogether. Now what do I got here? Two quitters -- or are you staying with?
CUT TO:: That night. A helicopter with a Bean, inc. decal on the side of it circles the crater scanning the dark terrain with a searchlight. There are tents, trucks, and 108 men gathered around the perimeter. They sit on bricks and logs and are armed with bats, pistols, rifles, shotguns, bows and arrows, and hatchets.
FOX: One of those slovenly farmers is probably wearing my tail as a necktie by now.
KYLIE: You're paranoid, Foxy.
CUT TO:: Mrs. Bean sitting in her kitchen watching television next to an extremely skinny, freckled twelve year-old boy. The boy points at the screen and laughs to himself:
FRECKLED BOY: Look at Dad's tie.
INSERT:: The television set. Bean is on-screen with the Action 13 reporter. He wears a fox-fur necktie.
PETEY: 'Bout a handsome little fox Let me sing you folks a yarn. Hey, diddle-dee, doddle-do, doodle-dum! 'Twas a splendid little feller Full of wit 'n' grace 'n' charm. Say, zippy-zee, yappy-yo, google-gum! The shot moves past the leathery faces of the other farmhands as they listen: amused, moved, hungry, tired, charmed, annoyed, whistling, playing a jew's harp, trying to sing along but not really knowing the words, etc.
PETEY: Like any little critter needin' Vittels for his littl'uns, Well, he stole, and he cheated, And he lied to survive. Doodle-dum, diddle-die, doddle-diddle- doodle-dee! Zippy-zo, zippy-zay, zippy-zappy- zoopy-zee! (this verse is spoken:) Let me take a little tick now To color in the scene: 'Cross the valley lived three yokels Name of Boggis, Bunce, and Bean.
PETEY (CONT'D): (back to singing:) Now these three crazy jackies had our hero on the run. Shot the tail off the cuss With a fox-shootin' gun. But that stylish little fox Was as clever as a whip. Dug as quick as a gopher Who was a hyper-ack-a-tive. Now those three farmers sit 'Twhere there's a hole 'twas once a hill. Hey, diddle-dee, doddle-do, doodle-dum! And as far as I can reckon They're a-settin' up there still.
(SLOWLY): Way, zippy-zee, yappy-yo, google --
(INTERRUPTING): What are you singing, Petey? Petey stops short. Everyone turns quickly and sees Bean standing over them in the darkness with his Luger in one hand and a cigarette in the other. Petey looks nervous.
PETEY: I don't know. I was just kind of making it up as I was going along... Petey trails off. Bean shakes his head. He looks highly irritated.
BEAN: That's just weak song-writing! You wrote a bad song, Petey! Bean throws his cigarette into the campfire. He storms away. Petey turns to the other farmhands. Everyone looks uncomfortable.
TITLE:: 3 DAYS LATER (18 Fox-Days)
CUT TO:: Morning in the farmers' camp. The cook flips an egg on a skillet. He puts it on a plate with bacon and hands it to Petey. Petey asks him:
PETEY: How long can a fox go without food or water?
CUT TO:: The exhausted foxes and Kylie underground. Kylie says
KYLIE: Well, I can only answer as an opossum, but I don't think I can last more than another couple of hours before I get completely dehydrated and starve to death.
ASH: What's that? Ash points. Everyone looks. A tiny hole appears in the wall at the end of the tunnel. Dirt crumbles out of it -- and a bit of metal catches a glint. Fox and his family watch, frozen. A breath of air blows into the tunnel. The flame on Mrs. Fox's lantern flickers once and goes out.
ASH: Dad?
(WHISPERS SHARPLY): Not a sound! Silence. There is a sudden, loud scrabbling noise. A match strikes. Fox touches it to Mrs. Fox's lantern-wick. The tiny hole in the wall has become a large one. Badger stands in front of Fox with his law partner Beaver, Beaver's overgrown, hulking son, a medium-sized mole, and a grey field mouse with a bandana tied in a "do-rag" style around his head. Badger has a spoon in his hand. Fox and Badger erupt at each other, screaming simultaneously:
FOX: You scared the cuss out of us!
BADGER: I told you not to buy at nine and a cussing half!
FOX: You don't just bang into somebody's cussing tunnel!
BADGER: Are you cussing yelling at me!
FOX: You're cussing right I'm cussing yelling!
BADGER: We're all cussing starving to death because of you, you mangy, cussing, little cuss! Fox and Badger snarl and scratch at each other, circling around the hole. They calm down slightly. Badger continues:
BADGER: We've been digging in circles for three days. Half the woods've been obliterated. Nobody can get out. Right now my wife's huddled at the bottom of the flint-mine with Mrs. Mole, Mrs. Beaver, Rabbit's ex- girlfriend, no food, no water, and twenty- seven hungry, whining, starving, little animal brats. This is a total cluster- cuss for everybody! Fox looks around the room at the entire gaunt, dirty, emaciated assembly. Everyone stares at him angrily. He swallows. The mole says softly.:
MOLE: I just want to see a little --
(SUDDENLY CRYING): -- sunshine.
(PUZZLED): But you're nocturnal, Phil. Your eyes barely even open, on a good day.
(ENRAGED): I'm sick of your double-talk. We have rights! Beaver's son looms over Ash and Kristofferson in a muddy alcove on the side of the tunnel. He pokes Ash in the chest with the finger of his paw.
BEAVER'S SON: We don't like you, and we hate your dad. You're too snazzy. You dress like a girl. You're creative. Now grab some of that mud, chew it in your mouth, and swallow it.
ASH: (scared and disgusted) I'm not going to eat mud!
BEAVER'S SON: Cuss, yeah, you are. Beaver's son grabs a handful of mud, smashes it into Ash's mouth, and forces his jaws up and down in a chewing motion. Ash coughs and splutters. Kristofferson frowns. He takes off his shoes with his feet. He says with a quiet ferocity:
KRISTOFFERSON: Don't do that. Beaver's son looks to Kristofferson. He looks down at Kristofferson's feet.
BEAVER'S SON: Why'd you take your shoes off?
KRISTOFFERSON: So I don't break your nose when I kick it. Kristofferson kicks Beaver's son in the face, karate chops his neck, elbow-jabs him twice in the gut, and flips the enormous youth over his shoulder and into the mud. Beaver's son gets up, crying, and walks out of the alcove. Ash watches blankly with mud all over his mouth as Kristofferson puts his shoes back on.
ASH: I can fight my own fights. Badger and Fox stand facing each other at the end of the tunnel. Badger says aggressively:
BADGER: Those farmers aren't going to quit until they've got you and every member of your family nailed upside-down to a bloody stick with your eyes gorged out.
(FREAKED OUT): This is getting a little too personal. Badger waits for Fox to continue. Fox stares into space.
FOX: Give me a minute. Fox turns and walks away. He faces the wall of the tunnel. He sits down on a rock. Everyone watches him uncertainly. They look at each other. Badger starts to say something, but Kylie cuts him off sharply:
(SHARPLY): Shh! Badger falls silent. Fox sits with his chin on his paw, lost in concentrated thought. He stands up. He nods repeatedly and begins to pace. His eyes dart from one spot to another. His paws move abruptly around in the air drawing lines and shapes. He freezes and looks straight up at the ceiling of the tunnel. He snaps the fingers of his paw and looks to the others. He says with a cautious excitement:
FOX: I've got an idea.
(TENTATIVELY): What is it?
FOX: It could be a good one.
(POINTEDLY): Lay it on us.
FOX: It might save our lives.
(EXASPERATED): Say the idea! Fox looks down at Ash, who stands beside him with mud still on his mouth. He nods. He says suddenly:
FOX: All right! Let's try it!
FOX: Go to the flint-mine. Tell Mrs. Badger, Rabbit's ex-girlfriend, et al. that help is on the way.
(SKEPTICALLY): Is help on the way? Fox grips Mrs. Fox's paw. He looks into her eyes and says
FOX: I sure as cuss hope so. Mrs. Fox detects a special, familiar, inspired light in her husband's eyes at this moment. She nods. She hands Ash the lantern. She straightens the neck-line of his cape, licks the mud off Ash's snout, and scrambles away down Badger's tunnel. Ash wants to cry but does not. Fox turns to the others.
FOX: Gentlemen, this time we must dig in a very special direction. Fox feels the walls with his paws. Everyone watches attentively.
FOX: I got to kind of feel out the vibe. Fox stops. He points slightly downwards and due south. He says with quiet anticipation:
FOX: Begin. Everyone starts digging, slowly but intently.
CUT TO:: The diggers one hundred yards later. Fox suddenly whistles and raises his fist. The diggers stop digging. Fox feels the ceiling with his paws. He knocks something hard. It sounds hollow. He looks at the others with a funny expression and raises an eyebrow. Fox carefully pushes up a floorboard. It creaks loudly. They all duck down and wait. Nothing happens. Fox pushes up a second floorboard. He cautiously pokes his head up through
FOX: I've done it! I've done it, first time! Come up and see where you are, my darlings! Everyone scrambles up out of the tunnel.
FOX: I hit it slap in the middle! Do you get how incredible this is? The others nod. They look dazed and wild. Fox holds up his hands and whispers:
FOX: Don't lose your heads, now. Let's do this properly. First, everyone have a drink of water. Fox leads the others over to the chickens' drinking trough. They all lap up the cool water. Fox dries his mouth.
SECOND --: Fox seizes a black chicken violently.
CUT TO:: Ash and Kristofferson running down the tunnel carrying two dead, black chickens. They turn three corners and arrive at the mossy hollow. They look inside.
MONTAGE:: Fox and the other diggers tunnel under the silo in front of Bunce Industries. Cows eat grass in the pasture above. Fox and the other diggers comes out of a hole in the floor and dance an ecstatic jig in a great storeroom lined to the ceiling with plucked ducks and geese. Smoked hams and sides of bacon dangle from the rafters.
WEASEL: What am I going to do? I'm going to hold him to the terms of the contract. It's not my fault they uprooted it. Kristofferson serves cranberry punch from a tureen in the corner. Ash goes over to him and holds out a mug.
ASH: They say I owe you an apology for some of the mean things I said about your father's illness. His double-pneumonia or whatever they're calling it now. Kristofferson ladles Ash a cupful.
ASH: So there it is. I hope we can continue our relationship as cousins or family members or however you want to define
IT --: (suddenly more intense) -- but do me a favor for yourself. The next time you have a problem with something I've said, come to me as a fox
ASH (CONT'D): and let's deal with it right then and not let it blow up into a whole, huge thing involving parents and so on. Agreed? Ash drinks his punch in one long sip and holds out the empty mug for a refill. Kristofferson nods slowly. He points at Ash with his ladle.
KRISTOFFERSON: I'm going to teach you karate. Badger sits next to the fireplace with Fox and Kylie.
BADGER: I can imagine how painful, even just emotionally, that must be for you.
(UNEASY): Well, you know, it's not the end of the world.
(MORE ANIMATED): Oh, but, Foxy, how humiliating! Having your whole tail blown clean off by a --
(COOLY): Can we drop it? Kristofferson starts to refill Ash's mug again. Ash suddenly puts his paw over the brim. Kristofferson hesitates. Ash raises an eyebrow and says mysterriously:
ASH: Ever tasted one of Mrs. Bean's famous nutmeg-ginger-apple snaps?
CHIEF: Who's got me a donation for the old Wounded Fireman's Retirement Pension Fund? Bean pulls a yellow check out of his inside pocket.
BEAN: Right here. (pointing behind him) Let me show you this hole.
BADGER: Well, it took a near-catastrophe for all of you to finally take me up on my offer to have you over to the flint-mine for dinner, but I guess we have --
(INTERRUPTING): I'm sorry. Maybe my invitation got lost in the mail. Does anybody know what this badger's talking about? Everyone laughs. Fox sits at the opposite end of the table with a crooked smile on his face.
FOX: But Clive's right --
(STANDING UP): -- in all seriousness -- (aside, to Badger) -- excuse me, B. Fox raises his cider glass. Badger reluctantly sits back down.
FOX: I guess we do have those three ugly, cusshole farmers to thank for one thing: reminding us to be thankful and aware of each other. I'm going to say it again.
(GESTURING EXPANSIVELY): Aware. Badger whispers to his wife:
BADGER: Foxy cuss-blocked my toast, man.
CUT TO:: The hole where Fox's tree once stood. The dead tree lies on its side. A fireman slides a thick hose deep into the tunnel. He looks behind him and nods.
FIREMAN #1: Ready. The shot moves backwards along the hose, past seven more firemen signalling to each other with: a thumbs-up, a snap, a fist in the air, a swirl of the fingers, a peace symbol, an A- OK, and a hook-'em Horns. The shot continues past Boggis, Bunce, and Bean helping to hold the hose in position. Boggis growls. Bunce hisses. Bean snarls. The shot arrives at a pump on the side of the fire truck. The chief points:
CHIEF: Let her rip. A fireman cranks a huge wrench on a steel nut. A pressure gauge shoots to maximum. The fire truck and hose begin to vibrate loudly.
CUT TO:: Ash and Kristofferson crouched under a drain-cover pushed just-open next to a refrigerator. They peer out across a bright, clean, white kitchen at a plate of perfect, golden cookies on a counter-top next to an open window with a step- ladder directly in front of it. They look at each other. They look around the quiet, empty room. Ash shrugs. Ash and Kristofferson dart out, leaving the drain-cover propped-up. They race over the linoleum. They climb the step- ladder and stop at the plate. Ash swoons and says
ASH: They're still warm. Ash and Kristofferson gather more cookies than they can possibly carry, eating as they collect them. Crumbs go everywhere. On the other side of the room, the drain-cover falls shut with a loud clank. Ash and Kristofferson look up, wildly startled. All at once they hear in a simultaneous cacophony: the back door bursting open, a boy and two beagles shouting and barking, the pantry door slamming, Mrs. Bean and her
CUT TO:: Fox in mid-toast:
FOX: I've stepped on some toes and alienated a few of you over the past few days -- but is it wrong for me to suggest we might've done worse than having an incredible banquet in a beautiful flint-mine surrounded by our favorite animals? Look at each other. Here we are. Wow. Now I've already had too much to drink, and I'm feeling sentimental, but I'm going to say something, anyway, which nobody wants to admit, but I think is probably true: we beat 'em. We beat those farmers, and now we're triumphantly eating their roasted chicken, their sizzling duck, their succulent turkey, their foie gras de --
(SUDDENLY): Where'd the boys go? Ash? Kristofferson? (to Mrs. Fox) What am I hearing again, baby? What's happening? Am I still paranoid? There is a low, distant rumbling which rapidly builds to a deafening roar. Everyone waits, frozen. A single drop of water drips from the ceiling into Badger's water glass. Fox turns to Badger and says:
FOX: Let's pause again. A wild deluge smashes into the room flooding the flint-mine and tunnels with a blasting current that sweeps everyone and everything away chaotically.
CUT TO:: The entire party of well-dressed animals and their plates, furniture, chickens, etc. shooting down the tunnel with the rushing waters. Fox, helpless, holding his breath, looks to the others underwater: Badger shakes his head in disgust; Rabbit makes a fierce grimace; Mole bares his teeth ferociously; Beaver rants angrily with bubbles coming out off his mouth; and Kylie stares ahead vacantly, holding his nose.
FOX: What the cuss just happened? Something with water. That was dangerous. Is anyone hurt?
(FURIOUS ): We're all hurt! My entire flint-mine just got demolished!
FOX: Let's do a head-count! Everybody pick a buddy! Each animal turns to his neighbor and establishes their buddy relationship. Fox looks wildly agitated as his eyes dart about, searching. He shouts:
FOX: Where'd the boys go? Ash? Kristofferson? Ash's voice cracks on the other side of the cavern:
ASH: I'm here. Everyone turns to see Ash standing at the mouth of a smaller pipe. He looks devastated and terrified. Fox points to him.
FOX: Ash! Who's your buddy?
ASH: Kristofferson, but I lost him.
FOX: You lost him? Where were you?
ASH: We went for cookies. Everyone turns to Fox. Fox yells desperately:
FOX: Kristofferson! Fox sprints around the cavern, splashing, digging, and ducking in and out of tunnels as the others join his frantic search. His voice sounds pained as he shouts:
FOX: Kristofferson! Kristofferson! Kristofferson!
CUT TO:: The three farmers standing next to the fire truck. Bean holds a soaked, half-conscious Kristofferson up in the air by the tail. Kristofferson is quietly crying.
BEAN: Wrap this wet, little mutt in a newspaper and put him in a box with some holes punched in the top.
FOX: Your brother's going to kill me, if he survives his double-pneumonia. Beaver runs into the brick cavern out of a drainpipe,
BEAVER: There's only one way out of this sewer, but the manhole cover's closed, and there's a station-wagon parked on it -- which means we're permanently stuck down here.
(BITTERLY): You still think we beat 'em, Foxy? Everyone turns to Fox and stares at him coldly. Fox sits down on the floor, in the water. He says quietly:
FOX: Somebody take over. I'm not in charge anymore.
FOX: You told me to change, but I can't --
(REALIZING): -- except, possibly, on some level, I think I just did.
(PAUSE): Well, then maybe we're not all going to die. Fox looks to Mrs. Fox. He stands up suddenly. He takes Mrs. Fox's hand.
FOX: Excuse us, everyone. Fox leads Mrs. Fox over to a ledge near a cement waterfall on the far side of the brick cavern. He puts his arm around her waist.
FOX: Badger's right. These farmers aren't going to quit until they catch me. I shouldn't have lied to your face. I shouldn't have resigned slash gotten fired from the Gazette. I shouldn't have pushed these farmers so far and tried to embarrass them and cuss with their heads. I enjoyed it, but I shouldn't have done it -- and now there's only one way out. Maybe if I hand myself over and let them kill me, stuff me, and hang me over their
(ICILY): You'll do no such thing.
(QUIETLY): Darling, maybe they'll let everyone else live. Mrs. Fox stares at Fox. She says desolately:
FOX: I don't know, but I have a possible theory. I think I have this thing where I need everybody to think I'm the greatest -- the quote-unquote fantastic Mr. Fox -- and if they aren't completely knocked- out, dazzled, and kind of intimidated by me, then I don't feel good about myself. Mrs. Fox shakes her head and turns away. Fox continues:
FOX: Foxes traditionally like to court danger, hunt prey, and outsmart predators -- and that's what I'm actually good at! I think, at the end of the day, I'm just --
(QUIETLY): We're wild animals. Fox smiles sadly and nods. He shrugs.
FOX: I guess we always were. I promise you: if I had all this to do over again, I'd have never let you down. It was always more fun when we did it together, anyway. Mrs. Fox has tears all over her face. Fox kisses her. He whispers in her ear:
FOX: I love you, Felicity.
FOX: Did I ever tell you about the time I learned we were going to have a cub?
ASH: In the fox-trap.
FOX: Right. We were at gun-point, and your
ASH: -- says she's pregnant.
FOX: Let me tell it, OK? I had no idea how we were going to get out of this jam, and then it hit me: what do foxes do better than any other animal?
ASH: Dig.
FOX: You're stepping on my lines.
ASH: Keep telling it.
FOX: So we dug. And the whole time I put paw over paw, scooping dirt and pebbles with your mother digging like crazy beside me, I kept wondering: who is this little boy going to be?
ASH: Or girl.
FOX: Or girl, right -- because at that point we didn't know. Fox grabs Ash by his shoulders and looks him in the eye.
FOX: Ash, I'm so glad he was you. Fox hugs Ash tightly, holds him for an instant, then let's go. He turns to the group.
FOX: Badger, organize a search party and try to find Kristofferson. Maybe he's alive. I'm sorry, everyone. I wish --
(HESITATES): Well, good-bye. Fox looks across the cavern to Mrs. Fox standing with her back to him. She turns to face him. Her eyes are burning. Fox smiles sadly. He races away down the drain-pipe. Everyone watches him disappear. Badger hesitates. He addresses the
BADGER: I guess we should probably split into a certain number of groups and start doing something, right?
CUT TO:: Badger carrying a lantern leading Ash, Mole, and two small rabbits down a drainpipe. Badger calls out:
BADGER: Kristofferson? Hello? Can you hear us? Rat's voice echoes in the darkness:
RAT: Y'all lookin' for somethin'? Nothin' down here but rusty bottle-caps and drainin' water. Everyone stops short. Rat drops into the pipe from an overhead drain ahead of them. He says ominously:
RAT: They got the boy.
(FROZEN): Who's got him?
RAT: The farmers three. You know who I'm talkin' about.
(HESITATES): They've kidnapped him?
RAT: Well-done, Mr. Badger. You're a smart man. They want to trade the son for his poppa.
BADGER: Why'd they write this in letters cut out of magazines?
KYLIE: To protect their identities. (on second thought) Oh, right, but then why'd they sign their names? Plus, we already knew who they were because they're trying to kill us.
INSERT:: A ransom note written in letters cut out of magazines and pasted onto a piece of paper. Badger reads out loud: Mr. Fox, we have your son. If you ever want to see him alive again -- Ash calls out:
ASH: I'm his son. Everyone looks at Ash. He stands behind them in silhouette. Rat says darkly:
RAT: I can see the resemblance. Pause. In an instant, Rat grabs Ash by the tail, picks him up off the ground, swings him in the air, and flings him away twenty feet down the drainpipe. Badger looks stunned. Ash sits in a puddle in a stupor. Rat races toward him down the tunnel. He leaps into the air with his claws out and his teeth bared. As he is about to seize upon Ash -- he is suddenly jerked backwards and spun around. Rat is face to face with Fox. Fox strikes his old-fashioned boxing stance. He draws back and throws a hard punch, nailing Rat square in the jaw. Rat staggers, stunned. He swings his switchblade, cutting Fox across the chest. Fox touches the wound and looks at the blood on the fingers of his paw. He looks to Rat. Rat holds up his wrist and shows Fox a child's plastic digital watch with miniature footballs, baseballs, and soccer balls on it. He says strangely:
RAT: I've still got it.
(FROWNING): What'd you just say?
RAT: I said I've still got the watch, Mr. Fox. She never asked for it back. A frozen moment. Fox springs forward and clamps his jaws onto Rat's throat. Rat tumbles over backwards. Fox pins him to the ground with his teeth in Rat's neck. Rat kicks and bucks and struggles, but Fox holds him fast. Rat goes limp. Fox releases him. Everyone slowly gathers around Fox and Rat. Ash kneels next to his father. Fox cradles Rat in his arms. Rat whispers:
RAT: The boy's locked in an apple crate on top of a gun-locker in the attic of Bean Annex. It's a set-up.
(SADLY): Would you have told me if I didn't kill you first? Rat smiles sickly. Blood drips from his mouth. His voice
RAT: Never.
FOX: (shaking his head) All these wasted years. What were you looking for, Rat? Fox wipes the blood from Rat's chin. Rat mutters.
ASH: He's trying to say something, Dad. Fox leans his ear close to Rat's mouth. As quiet as a mouse,
RAT: Cider.
FOX: Here you are, Rat. A beaker of Bean's finest secret cider. Rat's slivery, scratchity, long, pink tongue laps up a taste of the black liquid. He licks his lips and says faintly:
RAT: Like melted gold. Rat's eyes turn into X's. He is dead. Ash stands up.
ASH: He redeemed himself.
(SHRUGS): Redemption? Sure. Fox swallows and says hopelessly with tears in his eyes:
FOX: But, in the end -- he's just another dead rat in a garbage pail behind a Chinese restaurant. Ash puts his hand on Fox's shoulder. Fox lays Rat gently onto the sewer floor. He stands up and turns to the rest of the group. Badger claps his paws together.
BADGER: Well, I suppose we should --
(INTERRUPTING): Excuse me, again, B. The search party's been cancelled. We're replacing it with a go-for-broke rescue mission. It's a set- up, but maybe we can make it work. You two little rabbits run tell the others.
(YELLING): Now, go! The two little rabbits scurry away down the drainpipe. Badger walks with Fox and Ash.
BADGER: What was he saying about that wristwatch? I didn't get what he was talking about.
FOX: Just some old back-story.
FOX: In a way, I'm almost glad that flood interrupted us, because I don't like the toast I was giving. I'm going to start over. Fox pantomimes raising a long-stemmed glass.
FOX: When I look down this table with the exquisite feast set before us, I see: two terrific lawyers, a skilled pediatrician, a wonderful chef, a savvy real-estate agent, an excellent tailor, a crack accountant, a gifted musician, a pretty good minnow fisherman, and possibly the best landscape painter working on the scene today. As Fox describes them, the shot cuts to: Badger and Beaver; Mrs. Badger; Rabbit; Weasel; an especially small, waifish field mouse; Mole; Kylie (who looks slightly offended); and Mrs. Fox, respectively.
FOX: Maybe a few of you might even read my column from time to time. Who knows? I tend to doubt it.
(DRAMATIC PAUSE): I also see a room full of wild animals. Everyone stares at Fox curiously, skeptical but intrigued. Fox points at them:
FOX: Wild animals with true natures and pure talents. Wild animals with scientific- sounding Latin names that mean something about our D.N.A. Wild animals each with his own strengths and weaknesses due to his or her species, and also -- well, I guess these things usually have a lot to
FOX (CONT'D): do with the parents, as we all know. Anyway, I think it may very well be all the beautiful differences among us that just might give us the tiniest glimmer of a chance of saving my nephew and letting me make it up to you for getting us into this crazy whatever-it-is. I don't know. It's just a thought. Thank you for listening. Cheers, everyone. Fox motions with his imaginary glass and pantomimes drinking it. A few of the others reluctantly pantomime drinking. Fox finishes his glass and pantomimes throwing it on the floor. He makes a smashing-glass sound. Kylie shouts:
KYLIE: Let's eat! Everyone turns to Kylie uncertainly. Kylie hesitates.
KYLIE: What? I'm just playing along with the --
(FORCEFULLY): All right! Let's start planning! Who knows shorthand? Pause. Badger points to his otter secretary. She is Linda. Fox darts over to her and grips her by the arm.
FOX: Linda! Lutra Lutra! You got some dry paper? Here we go! Fox, highly energized, moves among the group, touching their shoulders and patting their backs.
FOX: Mole! Talpa Europea! What do you got?
(HESITATES): I can see in the dark?
(EXHILARATED): That's incredible! We can use that! Linda?
(TAKING SHORTHAND): Got it.
FOX: Rabbit! Oryctolagus Cuniculus!
RABBIT: I'm fast.
FOX: You bet your cuss you are! Linda?
(TAKING SHORTHAND): Got it.
FOX: Beaver! Castor Fiber!
BEAVER: I can chew through wood.
FOX: Amazing! Linda?
(TAKING SHORTHAND): Got it.
FOX: Badger! Meles Meles!
BADGER: Demolitions expert!
(CONFUSED): What? Since when?
BADGER: Explosions, flames, things that burn!
FOX: Demolitions expert! OK! Linda!
(TAKING SHORTHAND): Got it! Fox's cheeks and forehead are beaded with perspiration. He
FOX: Weasel! Mustela Nivalis!
WEASEL: Stop yelling! Fox snaps his fingers, kicks a rock, and throws his arm into the air.
FOX: All right! Fox points to the various cubs and pups.
FOX: All you little kids get organized and put together some kind of a K.P. unit or something to keep this sewer clean. It's good for morale. The field mouse shoves his way to the front of the crowd. He makes a fist with his paw.
FIELD MOUSE: I want to go with you, too! I want to fight!
(PAUSE): Good. Fabulous! Microtus Pennsylvanicus! Do you do that, in fact? Are field mice violent?
FIELD MOUSE: Not particularly, except maybe domestic/ kitchen sink-type stuff, but I have a hunch I might just --
(DEVIL-MAY-CARE): -- land a few good punches before I get stepped on, poisoned, or lured to my death by a little piece of cheese. Who's to say?
FOX: (smiling with admiration) You're a cuss of a lot bigger than you look, Rickity. Kylie tugs at Fox's sleeve. Fox turns to look at him. Kylie
KYLIE: I didn't get a job yet -- or a Latin name. What's my strength? Fox raises an eyebrow. He thinks of something:
FOX: Listen, you're Kylie. You're an unbelievably nice guy. Your job is really just to... be available, I think. I don't know your Latin name. I doubt they even had opossums in ancient Rome. Kylie puts his hands in his pockets and scowls.
FOX: It's stupendous. Where's us?
FOX: Paint an X.
INSERT:: The bottom of the map. Mrs. Fox's paw paints a red X and puts a circle around it. The shot zooms out to reveal the entire valley -- no longer a painting on the brick wall. Lighting strikes at the horizon. Dark clouds loom over the three farmers' compounds. It looks exactly like one of Mrs. Fox's paintings of a landscape in a rainstorm. Bean's helicopter circles the area.
BEAN: Why'd he write this in letters cut out of magazines?
(SHRUGS): I don't know, but you did the same thing.
(UNEASY): I don't trust this guy. Anyway, set up the ambush.
KRISTOFFERSON: Could I have a cup of water, please? Kristofferson waits for a reply, but no one answers. He whistles to himself for a minute. He clears his throat again. He calls out:
KRISTOFFERSON: Excuse me! Excuse me?
FOX: Synchronize your clocks. The time is
NOW --: Fox looks at his wrist. He is wearing Rat's plastic, digital, sports-themed wristwatch.
FOX: -- nine forty-five A.M. Everyone checks their watches. Badger points at Fox's wrist.
BADGER: Is that Rat's watch?
(VAGUELY): No. Originally, no.
(PAUSE): Well, OK, here's the back-story: when I was a teenager I spent a summer working as a bar-back at a jazz pub called Django's where Rat played horn down near -- can I tell this another time? We should stay focused on what's happening right now. Ash comes up to Fox's side and says discreetly:
ASH: I should probably ride with you and Kylie since it's my fault Kristofferson got captured stealing those nutmeg-ginger- apple snaps.
(PUZZLED): I didn't understand a word of that sentence, but none of it matters, anyway, because it's too dangerous for you to come with us.
INSERT:: Rat's watch. It is now 10 A.M.
CUT TO:: Six armed farmhands on the roof of the Nag's Head Tavern.
CUT TO:: Seven armed farmhands in the bushes behind Sweetings Bakery.
CUT TO:: Eight armed farmers in the window of Harrison Travel.
CUT TO:: The Action 13 reporter and camera crew in an alley next to St. John's Coin-op Laundry.
BEAN: Of course, we did! Say something, kid! Bunce presses play on a tape recorder. Kristofferson's voice comes over a loudspeaker:
KRISTOFFERSON'S VOICE: Excuse me! Excuse me? Bunce presses stop.
CUT TO:: Fox and his entourage at the bottom off the manhole. Fox scoffs. He smiles and shakes his head.
FOX: Come on! That doesn't sound anything like him! It's amateur night in Dixie! Badger rapidly slaps two pieces of flint together. A bit chips off, and sparks fly from the break. He blows on some kindling. He takes a pinecone out of a basket.
BEAN: What the cuss is he burning? A blazing pinecone shoots out of the manhole and flies through the air, over the farmers' heads. It lands in a trash can and lights some rubbish on fire. A man with a dart in one hand and a mug of ale in the other comes out of the Nag's Head and pours his beer into the trash can. The fire goes out. The three farmers laugh smugly. Bean shouts:
BEAN: Is that all you've got, Mr. Fox? Twenty-seven blazing pinecones shoot out of the manhole and hit: a wood-pile on the roof of the Nag's Head, a box of pastry wrappers in the bushes behind Sweetings, a stack of brochures in the window of Harrison Travel, a hay bale in the bed of the pick-up truck, Boggis, Bunce, Bean, and a crate of cam-corder batteries next to the Action 13 camera crew, which explodes. Farmers scatter, grabbing hoses, yelling, and tamping out the flames as the beagles bark, yelp, and scramble in the confusion. Rabbit darts out of the hole and races up the street. Six farmers chase after him, firing their weapons.
MOLE: Twenty-eight pinecones fired! Twenty-two targets hit! Mrs. Fox, standing on her ladder, paints black checks quickly on the street in her mural. The stolen, portable television set sits in the corner, tuned into Action 13's coverage of the chaos in the street.
CUT TO:: Rabbit running full-steam out of the village being pursued by the six farmhands. He hurdles an empty Coke bottle lying on its side in the road.
CUT TO:: Fox driving the motorcycle with Kylie in the sidecar. They both wear helmets and goggles. Thunder rumbles in the distance. Kylie sinks lower in the sidecar. He shouts to Fox over the sound of the motor:
KYLIE: Are you scared of wolves?
FOX: Scared, no! I have a phobia of them!
KYLIE: Well, I have a thing about thunder!
(ANNOYED): Why? That's stupid! Ash pokes his head up from the rear compartment of the sidecar. He also wears a helmet and goggles. His white cape flutters behind him. He shouts:
ASH: I don't like needles! Fox and Kylie look to Ash in disbelief. Fox says furiously:
FOX: Where'd you come from again? How'd you get in the sidecar? I feel like I'm losing my mind! Fox angrily steers toward a small mound of dirt. They jump it slightly and fly over a little ditch. Ash yelps enthusiastically as Fox drives them back onto the road.
PILOT: I've got a fox on a motorcycle with a littler fox and what looks to be an opossum in the sidecar riding north on farm lane seven. Does that sound like anything to anybody? A military-type voice responds over the radio:
FOX: That's the annex over there on the right. Ash nods. Kylie does not respond.
FOX: The white building over there on the right. Pause. Fox looks to Kylie.
FOX: Kylie? Kylie turns to Fox and stares at him vacantly. Fox says
FOX: Kylie!
KYLIE: What?
(SUDDENLY): I did it!
FOX: When? I didn't see it! Kylie makes his slight gesture with his paw. The gardener puts three turnips into a basket and rides away on his bicycle. Fox, Kylie, and Ash scramble down the tree trunk. They come out of the bushes on their motorcycle and ride through the gates, across the yard, past the wandering turkeys. They park outside the courtyard doors to Bean Annex and jump off the motorcycle.
FOX: Kylie, you got a credit card?
KYLIE: (digging in his pockets) Sure.
(IMPRESSED): See, this is what I was saying about how good you are at just being available for
WHATEVER --: Kylie hands Fox a World Traveler Titanium Card. Fox frowns.
FOX: A Titanium Card? How the cuss did you qualify for this?
(SHRUGS): I pay my bills on time. I've always had good credit. Fox examines the card with mild resentment. He picks the lock and opens the doors. The courtyard has high walls and a gravel floor. On one side, there are ten trash cans, a stack of newspapers, and a compost heap. On the other side, there is an old, rusted, broken-down tractor and a new one. By far the largest, fattest, toughest beagle yet lies sleeping in the middle. White foam froths around its mouth as it breathes heavily. Its collar is hooked to a thick chain. A tag around its neck reads Spitz. Fox, Kylie, and Ash stop in their tracks. The beagle opens his eyes. Fox turns to Kylie.
FOX: Give me a blueberry. Kylie looks surprised. He shrugs. He shakes his head and gestures, I don't have any. Fox frowns. He throws up his hands in the air. Kylie makes a frustrated face. Fox points at him. Kylie looks away and snorts angrily. Fox looks away and spits at the ground. Ash says quietly:
ASH: What's that white stuff around his mouth?
(SQUINTING): I think he eats soap. Fox sees an amber, plastic pharmacy bottle on a shelf above some bags of fertilizer. It's reads: Drug: Phenomoxylcarbobubytol, 10 mg
BREED: BEAGLE: For: RABIES (chronic) Other: Take with meat, do not operate heavy machinery Fox frowns. He says grimly:
FOX: That's not soap.
(HESITATES): Well, then why does he have that bubbly --
FOX: He's rabid. With rabies. I've heard about this beagle. The beagle stands up. Fox says carefully:
FOX: Easy, boy. Fox takes a cautious step toward the beagle. He holds out the back of his paw for the beagle to sniff. He says back over his shoulder to Kylie and Ash:
FOX: I'm going to try to befriend him. I feel like there's a tenderness in his eyes. Fox takes another step. He makes a soft, kissing noise. The beagle watches him calmly.
FOX: Yes, I'm right. He's a good boy. A little lonely, maybe, but -- Fox takes another cautious step.
FOX: -- but terribly sweet. Hello, there, boy. Is your name Spitz? That's German, isn't it?
KYLIE: (aside, to Ash) I thought he said you never look a beagle in the eye.
(COAXINGLY): Why, you're just as sweet as a -- Fox and the beagle lock eyes. The pupils of the beagle's eyes contract then completely disappear, and the whites turn bright red. Fox's eyes open wider than their sockets. The rabid beagle erupts ballistically, attacking like an enraged maniac. His chain rips out of the cement. Fox, Kylie, and Ash shriek and scream, sprinting frantically around the courtyard as the rabid beagle, frothing, roaring, and snapping, tries desperately to kill them. Fox shouts, his voice cracking like a grandmother's:
FOX: Climb the trellis! In well under a second, Fox, Kylie, and Ash scale the trellis six stories -- Kylie's pants catching on a nail and ripping off on the way up -- and find themselves standing on the roof of Bean Annex. Kylie wears blue Fruit-of-the-Looms with a pattern of stars, moons, and planets on them. They all look down at the rabid beagle, which continues to pitch an insane fit, running in circles after its tail at the bottom of the courtyard. Fox takes in their new surroundings. He says, pleased:
FOX: So the attic is probably in the area right up around here somewhere, I figure, huh? Kylie and Ash, panting and dripping with sweat, both stare at Fox vacantly. (NOTE: a second set of alternate eyeballs indicating Kylie's vacant look will be used for Ash in this shot.)
(IRRITATED): Come on, guys. Stay with me. We did good. That's just some dog. Let's not get traumatized.
CUT TO:: The street below. An orange and yellow Citroen van screeches into the melee. Painted yellow letters spell Badoit et Fils, Destruction des Animaux Nuisibles on the side of it with an image of a trapped fox. An old man with a grey moustache and a young man with a black moustache, both dressed in orange-and-yellow-striped uniforms, jump out of the van. They open the side door and start unloading stacks of metal cages.
CUT TO:: Rabbit still running full-steam down a country lane being pursued by the six farmhands.
KRISTOFFERSON: Hi!
CUT TO:: Fox and Kylie lowering Ash into the room with three different- colored shoelaces tied together and belted around his waist. Ash holds the shoelace and keeps a paw behind his back like a mountaineer. His feet touch down on the shelf. He runs to the apple crate and jiggles the padlock. He hesitates. He says
ASH: Can I get one of those karate lessons real quick?
(LONG PAUSE): OK. Normally, we start with some breathing exercises and such. Stand like this. Kristofferson stands with his paws clasped in front of him. Ash mimics this.
CUT TO:: A fox-trap hanging from a chain suspended above the alley behind the Nag's Head Tavern. A second one hangs behind Sweetings Bakery. A third one hangs behind Harrison Travel. A fourth one hangs behind St. John's Coin-op Laundry. A fifth one hangs behind Ferguson Cobblers. Rickity curiously examines a little, hanging wire. He mutters
RICKITY: Is this spring-loaded?
CUT TO:: Kristofferson continuing Ash's karate lesson:
KRISTOFFERSON: This next part is mental. Position yourself on the balls of your feet. Kristofferson stands lightly poised with his arms out. Ash mimics this.
KRISTOFFERSON: Close your eyes. Kristofferson closes his eyes. So does Ash. So do Fox and Kylie. Kristofferson says mystically:
KRISTOFFERSON: You weigh less than a slice of bread.
CUT TO:: Each fox-trap in rapid succession as it falls on: Rickity, Badger, Weasel, and Beaver. The two small rabbits watch from a sewer-gutter drain under the street-curb. They panic. They race down a pipe, into a tunnel, and through a conduit.
CUT TO:: Kristofferson continuing Ash's karate lesson:
KRISTOFFERSON: Let's review the principle agility techniques: jumping, flipping, landing.
CUT TO:: Mrs. Fox looking down from her ladder at the three, panting rabbits. She looks stunned. She motions to her mural/map and
CUT TO:: The two small rabbits, Mrs. Rabbit, Mrs. Badger, Mole, and Mrs. Fox each furiously digging a new tunnel.
CUT TO:: Kristofferson continuing Ash's karate lesson:
KRISTOFFERSON: First, you need to get a running start, which, obviously, I can't do in here, then, as you arrive at the destination of the chop --
(DEMONSTRATING): -- lean and thrust into the point of contact, paw remains open and straight, then withdraw instantaneously. Remember, it's the pull-back that matters. The pull-
(DEMONSTRATING): -- generates the force of the impact.
(IMMEDIATELY): Got it. Ash walks ten paces away to the far end of the shelf. Fox and Kylie watch from above. Kylie says excitedly:
KYLIE: He's going to do it! Fox makes a face that says, I'm not so sure. Ash takes a deep breath. He screams at the top of his lungs as he sprints toward the apple crate:
ASH: Ki-ya! Ash's toe catches on a loose nail. He somersaults twice through the air and bounces off the side of the apple crate, which falls off the shelf. Kristofferson braces himself. The apple crate hits the floor and shatters into pieces. Kristofferson lies among the wreckage. Ash looks over the side of the shelf. Fox and Kylie watch from above, grimacing.
ASH: I'm sorry.
(DAZED): That's all right. You were just trying to unlock the apple crate.
ASH: No, I mean I'm sorry about --
KRISTOFFERSON: (picking himself up) Oh, you mean from before. The apology you owed me which you never actually said.
ASH: Yeah. Kristofferson nods sadly. He takes a deep breath. He nods again.
KRISTOFFERSON: That's all right, too. Throw me the shoelace, please. Ash smiles.
CUT TO:: Badger trapped in his cage. He hears something. He looks quickly down the alley. The old, orange van turns the corner and approaches, bumping over potholes. Badger shrinks into the corner of the cage and mutters grimly to himself:
BADGER: Badoit et fils.
FOX: Your tractors uprooted my tree. Your posse hunted my family. Your gunmen kidnapped my nephew. Your rat insulted my wife -- and you shot off my tail.
(STEELY): I'm not leaving here without that neck- tie. Bean smiles his sickly smile. Fox smiles back defiantly. Kylie looks utterly baffled. Ash says mystically:
ASH: I weigh less than a slice of bread.
(HESITATES): What?
ASH: I'll be right back. Ash runs. Fox, Kylie, and Kristofferson watch, shocked, as Ash sprints back to the courtyard doors. The three farmers open fire at him. Fox, Kylie, and Kristofferson duck and take cover behind a hay-bale.
ASH: Ki-ya! Ash cyclone-chops the doorknob. The lock clicks. Ash's eyes light up. Ash drops to the ground. He digs a hole and burrows into the dirt as bullets fly everywhere. He breathes in through his nose and out through his mouth. Fox watches with his jaw hanging open. The courtyard doors smash apart and the rabid beagle tears out into the vegetable garden growling, foaming, and thrashing crazily. The farmers shriek and scream and run around, panicking, with their guns blazing. Fox, Kylie, Ash, and Kristofferson jump onto their motorcycle. The beagle rips the tail from Bean's neck, shreds it, chews it up, and swallows it. Fox deflates for an instant, then recovers. He looks to Ash on the back of the motorcycle, behind him, with his hands around Fox's waist. He says with the deepest affection and respect:
FOX: Ash, that was pure, wild animal craziness. You're an athlete. Ash swallows. He beams. He sits up straighter. (NOTE: from this point onwards, an alternate version of Ash will be used which is slightly taller, slightly leaner, and animated slightly more gracefully.) Fox kick-starts the motorcycle and races across the farm. Boggis, Bunce, and Bean scramble onto the roof of a car port with an old, white Mercedes convertible under it. The snarling beagle barks and snaps below them. They watch as: Fox steers the motorcycle toward a broken apple cart at the edge of the property. He guns the motor and yells:
FOX: Holy swearing cuss!!!
CUT TO:: Boggis, Bunce, and Bean watching from the roof of the car port. Boggis turns to Bean and says, deadpan, needling him:
BOGGIS: Franklin? You got any final twist for this plot?
(PAUSE): Yeah! Bean grabs Boggis by the neck and throttles him. Bunce starts throwing punches. Bean holds him back by the forehead. Boggis kicks Bunce in the stomach. They brawl chaotically while the rabid beagle continues to go bananas below them.
CUT TO:: Each fox-trap with a cobblestone missing underneath it and a hole in the ground. The old man with the grey moustache turns to his son and says with a strong French accent:
BADOIT: Cuss.
MOLE: Stand by! Everyone looks to Mole. Mole is holding the tin can with the string attached to it to his ear. He nods and says urgently:
MOLE: I just intercepted a high-frequency radio signal with the can -- (gestures with the tin can) -- and I think they're on their way home!
CUT TO:: Rabbit still running full-steam back into the village being pursued by the six farmhands. He comes to the manhole where they started and darts into it. The six farmhands stop at the manhole and look down. They go straight to the Nag's Head, walk inside, and close the door behind them.
KYLIE: Don't turn around!
FOX: What? Fox turns around. A huge, wild, grey wolf with ice-blue eyes stands on a rock fifty feet away from them. Fox slams on the brakes. The motorcycle slides to a halt.
FOX: Where'd he come from?
(LOUDLY): Where'd you come from? What are you doing here? Pause. Fox points toward the wolf:
FOX: Canis lupus! Fox points to himself:
FOX: Vulpes Vulpes! The wolf does not answer. Fox, Kylie, Ash, and Kristofferson watch idling from the motorcycle.
FOX: I don't think he speaks English or Latin.
(LOUDLY): Pensez-vous que 1'hiver sera rude?
(ASIDE): I'm asking if he thinks we're in for a hard winter.
FOX: He doesn't seem to know. Silence. Fox shouts to the wolf with a strange hitch in his
FOX: I have a phobia of wolves! The wolf does not answer. It breathes heavily with its mouth open. Its teeth are long, sharp, and yellow. Its tongue hangs out, and its eyes are wild. Fox looks back at it with the identical expression for a minute, mesmerized -- then Fox closes his mouth and his eyes soften. Fox raises his paw in the air. The wolf blinks a few times. It raises its paw in the air. It turns away and trots off into the woods. Fox says wistfully:
FOX: What a beautiful creature. Wish him luck, boys. Fox guns the motor. Gravel spits from under the spinning tires, and they tear off down the road. The shot booms down into the ground, below the grass, through buried pebbles, layers of soil, and subterranean mineral deposits.
TITLE:: THREE DAYS LATER (2 1/2 Fox Weeks) The shot continues to descend past Badger and his family having dinner in a nicely furnished drain-pipe, past Rabbit and his family watching Magnum, P.I. on the stolen, portable television set in a well-appointed cement tunnel, past Beaver and Mrs. Beaver hosting Mole and Weasel for cocktails in a tasteful sewer-conduit. The shot stops in a small chamber adjacent to the brick cavern. The walls are filled with electrical cables, wires, pipes, and a large, new mural which depicts the Fox's former view of the valley as seen from their tree with a trompe 1'oeil window-frame around it. It is signed Felicity Fox. Ash and Kristofferson sit Indian-style meditating on a braided rug. Mrs. Fox works mixing paints and turpentine at an easel in the corner. There is an armchair with a folded-up copy of the Gazette on its cushion in the center of the room under a glowing lamp. Classical music plays on a radio.
FOX: My darlings? Everyone looks to Fox. He signals them to follow him.
ASH: Where are we going?
FOX: Nobody knows.
ASH: We were in the middle of a meditation practice.
FOX: Watch your step. Fox takes everyone through an opening and starts climbing a metal ladder. He says theatrically:
FOX: Let's see, now. Where does this lead?
FOX: Keep a good grip, everyone.
ASH: This better be worth it.
FOX: I think I see a little sliver of light. What's this? Is that a door?
KRISTOFFERSON: Do you smell something? Is that --
(SNIFFS TWICE): -- freon?
FOX: Shh. I'm going to crack open this trap door and see if something's on the other side. I highly doubt it, though. There's probably just more sewer. Fox clears his throat. Pause.
FOX: You know, wouldn't it be surprising if --
ASH: Open it. Fox pushes open the trap door and crawls out. Everyone follows him.
FOX: Hey, look! There's a whole, enormous, glorious, gigantic supermarket up here! Ash and Kristofferson seem dumbstruck. Fox raises an eyebrow and smiles at Mrs. Fox. She puts her arm around his shoulder.
(SHRUGS): I try. I guess now that Kristofferson's dad's already down to single-pneumonia and getting better, he'll be going home soon, huh?
FOX: Oh, really? Well, now's the time to buy. Kylie comes around the end of the aisle pushing a miniature shopping cart filled with jars of jelly, jam, olives, pickles, and honey, plus three loaves of bread, Band-Aids, toothpaste, and a carton of strawberry ice cream. He says
KYLIE: Did I hear my name?
(SMILING): Not down here, you didn't.
(SMILING BLANKLY): Why not?
FOX: Because we were talking about other things.
(RESIGNED): Oh, well. Fox looks at Ash, who is studying a twelve-pack of tropical juice punch-boxes.
FOX: The white cape rather suits him, doesn't it? Actually, I had to do quite a bit of searching myself before I found a look that really flattered me. Remember those horseshoe cuff-links? Fox and Mrs. Fox crack-up laughing. Fox notices something and stops. He stares at Mrs. Fox strangely. She is glowing. She hesitates. She shrugs.
ASH: Dad?
ASH: Should we dance? Pause. Everyone breaks out giddily dancing an ecstatic jig. Kylie waltzes the cart in circles. Fox spins Mrs. Fox.
CUT TO:: A wide shot of all sixteen aisles of the supermarket stacked with boxes, cartons, cans, bottles, bags, and jars of every possible variety of food. The family of foxes continues to dance at the distant end of the center aisle.
