WAITRESS #1: I think he looks like Richard Gere. The two Waitresses discuss the issue at hand. One of them, Linda Barrett, is the seventeen year old, retired sex queen of Ridgemont High.
LINDA: Did you see his cute little butt? A third waitress enters.
WAITRESS #2: Let's talk about C-19.
WAITRESS #2: I think I'll drop over and change the shakers.
LINDA: No, be cool, that's Stacy's Through the entrance, we see Stacy Hamilton. She is the fifteen-year-old trainee, sweet-looking with just the last traces of baby fat. She puts down a glass of water for Ron, spills some and mops it up.
WAITRESS #1: He's too old for Stacy, she hasn't even started high school yet. A flustered Stacy enters the back kitchen.
LINDA: How's it going.
STACY: Do you think that guy's cute?
WAITRESS #1: In a blow-dryed kind of way.
STACY: Does anyone else want to take his Don't you like him?
LINDA: Don't you like him?
STACY: Yeah, but I fucked up. You can take it. Really.
LINDA: Come on, Stacy, it's your section and your man.
STACY: What should I do?
LINDA: Just take his order, look him in the eye and if he says anything remotely funny, laugh a lot. She fluffs up Stacy's hair and gently shoves her towards the door. Stacy reluctantly exits.
RON: So you working hard or hardly Stacy thinks it over, decides it's a joke and laughs ( a little too late ). Ron looks at her You look like you could still be in high school.
STACY: I know, everyone says that. He stares at her and she stares back uncomfortably.
RON: How about your phone number? Stacy smiles nervously.
THE RAT: Do you ever look at those girls who work at Swenson's? They're beautiful. And I have to stand out here and watch them six nights a You should work for yourself. Two Junior High Kids spot Damone, walk up to him.
DAMONE: You should work for yourself. Two Junior High Kids spot Damone, walk up to him.
DAMONE: I could be.
DAMONE: Twenty bucks apiece.
DAMONE: So don't buy 'em.
DAMONE: Scalper? You call me a scalper? I perform a service, my friends. The service costs money. Now do you want the tickets or not? The Kids look at each other.
DAMONE: These are my special back-to-school We'll take 'em. Damone reaches inside his pants pocket for a wad of EXT. CARL'S JR. - NIGHT At the other end of the mall is a neon-lit Carl's Jr. Hamburger Restaurant. If Swenson's was the warm up, this is the main attraction of the Ridgemont INT. CARL'S JR. Back-to-school banners hang from the walls. Many kids are lined up at the counters. In the middle of the kitchen, directing all the orders, is a seventeen year old named Brad. He moves confidently, observing the fryer, checking cup supply, and giving an affectionate squeeze to a pretty cashier named Lisa. She lets him kiss her, but only once. A teenage Customer shouts to Brad from the front Hey Brad! I waited till you came on! I wanted your fries. Brad smiles, walks over to the fryer and discards the fries left from the previous shift. He shouts to the other employees as he puts in a new batch, "his" batch.
CUSTOMER: Hey Brad! I waited till you came on! I wanted your fries. Brad smiles, walks over to the fryer and discards the fries left from the previous shift. He shouts to the other employees as he puts in a new batch, "his" batch.
BRAD: We need fifteen Superstars, David!
BRAD: I'll take care of the fry orders! Just get me the Superstars!
BRAD: Hey you guys! You had shirts on when you came in here.
SPICOLI: Something happened to them, mon.
BRAD: Come on, Spicoli. Why don't you just put your shirts back on? See the sign?
DENNIS: Any problems?
BRAD: No, just a couple of surfers with no shirts on. I took care of it, ANGLE ON SURFERS grumbling, putting shirts back on. It pains them. Dennis heads back to his office when he sees something in the trash bin.
DENNIS: Did you throw away those fries, They were left over from the last Those were perfectly good fries, Perfectly good.
BRAD: They were left over from the last Those were perfectly good fries, Perfectly good.
DENNIS: Those were perfectly good fries, Perfectly good.
BRAD: But they weren't mine. Brad laughs, goes back to work.
STACY: He gave me his card. 'Ron Johnson, Audio Consultant.'
LINDA: ( amused ) Should we buy a frame for that?
STACY: Come on, Linda, I haven't had a boyfriend all summer. You promised when I started working at the mall that my life would change. Do you think he'll call this week?
LINDA: Listen, Stace, you want to know about guys? I'll tell you. They're mostly chicken. Before I met Doug I chased after every guy I thought was cute. I thought if I gave out a vibe they'd get the message and call me up. Well, guess what? They don't call.
STACY: So what did you do?
LINDA: I called them. If I was sitting next to a guy and I wanted to sit closer, I'd sit closer. If I wanted to kiss him, I'd just do it. You want Ron Johnson? Grab him.
STACY: I can't do that. They pass a janitor cleaning graffiti that says: LINCOLN SURF NAZIS and MAGGOT LUST FOR THE DUST.
LINDA: Face it. With some guys you have to make the first move. A lot of guys are just. wussies.
STACY: Stacy, what are you waiting for? You're fifteen. I did it when I was thirteen. It's no huge thing. It's just sex. If you don't, one of the other girls will.
LINDA: Stacy, what are you waiting for? You're fifteen. I did it when I was thirteen. It's no huge thing. It's just sex. If you don't, one of the other girls will.
STACY: ( cute ) He was hot, wasn't he?
LINDA: If I didn't have a fiance in Chicago, I'd go for it. A young Girl runs and catches up with Linda and Are you Linda Barrett?
GIRL: ( breathless ) Are you Linda Barrett?
LINDA: I'm Carrie Frazier from Toys 'R Us. Judy Hinton from May Company told me I could ask you something. Linda nods.
GIRL: I'm Carrie Frazier from Toys 'R Us. Judy Hinton from May Company told me I could ask you something. Linda nods.
LINDA: Okay, are you over sixteen? The Girl nods.
GIRL: And they don't call my parents?
LINDA: Not if you're over sixteen.
GIRL: Okay. Thanks a lot, Linda.
LINDA: And don't let them talk you into a diaphragm either. The Girl thanks Linda again. Linda and Stacy get to the back exit of the mall and Linda uses a key to open the door.
STACY: I can't believe I start high school Believe it. They exit the mall, into the night.
LINDA: Believe it. They exit the mall, into the night.
HO.": The rest of Ridgemont High is covered with toilet paper. And a black spray paint message along the side of the front office building reads, "LINCOLN
SURF NAZIS.": EXT. RIDGEMONT PARKING LOT - DAY Brad pulls into the Ridgemont High parking lot. He drives a beat-up, four-door model LTD sedan. Three friends wait for him near his parking space. They are dressed in the same golf caps with brand logos on the front like CAT, NATIONAL and CHAINSAW.
BUDDY #1: BUDDY #2 The cruising vessel! Hey Yooooo! Brad climbs out of his car and pats it admiringly.
BUDDY #2: The cruising vessel! Hey Yooooo! Brad climbs out of his car and pats it admiringly.
BRAD: Six more payments, gentlemen. Brad joins his friends, and they walk towards the EXT. RIDGEMONT PARKING LOT We see a shiny, new, blue Mustang whip into the parking lot. Students scatter from the parking space. Behind the wheel is football star Charles Jefferson. A huge, black kid. The halls at Ridgemont part for Charles Jefferson. Rat and Damone are in the parking lot. Damone surrounded by underclassmen ( customers ) selling See that Mustang? U.C.L.A. gave Charles Jefferson that car when he was a sophomore. The underclassmen are impressed. They watch as Jefferson opens his car door and stands to his full height, over six-foot tall. He opens his trunk and pulls out no books, just a football duffel bag. He slowly walks by Damone, Rat and the underclassmen.
DAMONE: See that Mustang? U.C.L.A. gave Charles Jefferson that car when he was a sophomore. The underclassmen are impressed. They watch as Jefferson opens his car door and stands to his full height, over six-foot tall. He opens his trunk and pulls out no books, just a football duffel bag. He slowly walks by Damone, Rat and the underclassmen.
JEFFERSON: Don't. fuck. with. it. He moves on. Damone resumes selling tickets.
DAMONE: Shit, that's my man.
ARNOLD: Brad, can I talk to you a minute?
BRAD: Arnold. What's happening? Arnold speaks confidentially to Brad.
ARNOLD: Brad, I really fuckin' hate McDonald's, man. Ever since they started in with the chicken, everything went downhill.
BRAD: You want to work at Carl's?
ARNOLD: Oh, man, if you could swing something there, I'd do anything for you. I want to work with you I can probably get you in there. Just let me talk to Dennis Taylor.
BRAD: I can probably get you in there. Just let me talk to Dennis Taylor.
ARNOLD: All right!! Brad notices Stacy and nods with complete inner Hi, Brad.
STACY: Hi, Brad.
BRAD: BRAD'S BUDDIES Hey, Stacy.
BRAD'S BUDDIES: Hey, Stacy.
STACY: Hi. Where's Lisa?
BRAD: Everyone wants to know where Lisa is. How should I know where Lisa What am I gonna do? Now my little sister goes to the same high school. The party's over. So who do you have first period?
STACY: U.S. History. Mr. Hand.
BRAD: ( concerned ) What's wrong with Mr. Hand?
DAVID: ( concerned ) What's wrong with Mr. Hand?
STACY: ( concerned ) What's wrong with Mr. Hand?
BRAD: Nothing. if you like 'Hawaii Five O.' You better get in class, Stacy. That's not the one to be late to. Stacy hurries off.
RICH: ( as soon as she is gone ) Your sister is really turning into a fox.
BRAD: You should see her in the morning.
BRAD'S BUDDIES: INT. U.S. HISTORY CLASS - DAY Stacy barely slips in the door before the final attendance bell sounds. She finds a seat just as the teacher's cubicle door opens at the back of the classroom. A tall figure comes barreling down the aisle. He is Mr. Hand. The man makes a double-speed step to the door at the front of the class, kicks the door shut and locks it. The windows rattle in their frames. Stacy watches, wide-eyed, at her first high school class.
MR. HAND: Aloha. My name is Mr. Hand. Mr. Hand writes his name on the green chalkboard before his class. Every letter is a small explosion of chalk.
STUDENT: That guy has been stoned since the third grade.
MR. HAND: Yeah. I'm registered for this What class?
SPICOLI: Yeah. I'm registered for this What class?
MR. HAND: What class?
SPICOLI: This is U.S. History, right? I saw the globe in the window.
MR. HAND: ( appears enthralled ) Spicoli holds his red ad card up to the crack in the door.
SPICOLI: Can I come in?
MR. HAND: ( swinging door open ) Oh, please. I get so lonely when that third attendance bell rings and I don't see all my kids here. Spicoli laughs. He is the only one.
SPICOLI: Sorry I'm late. This new schedule is totally confusing. Mr. Hand takes the red ad card and reads from it with utter fascination.
MR. HAND: Mr. Spicoli?
SPICOLI: That's the name they gave me. Mr. Hand slowly tears the card into little pieces and sprinkles the pieces over his wastebasket. Spicoli watches in disbelief. His hands are frozen in the process of removing his backpack.
MR. HAND: Hey, bud. What's your problem? Mr. Hand moves to within inches of Spicoli's face.
SPICOLI: Hey, bud. What's your problem? Mr. Hand moves to within inches of Spicoli's face.
MR. HAND: No problem at all. I think you know where the front office is. It takes a moment for the words to work their way out of Jeff Spicoli's mouth.
SPICOLI: You. dick. In the tense moment that follows, no one in the class is sure what might happen. Mr. Hand simply turns away from Jeff Spicoli as if he ceased to exist and coolly continues his I've taken the time to print up a complete schedule of class quizzes, and the chapters they cover. Please pass them back to the desks behind Hand begins passing out stacks of purple mimeographed sheets.
MR. HAND: I've taken the time to print up a complete schedule of class quizzes, and the chapters they cover. Please pass them back to the desks behind Hand begins passing out stacks of purple mimeographed sheets.
BRAD: You hear about the surfer in Mr. Hand's class? His Buddies shake their heads.
BRAD'S BUDDIES: Brad sees another friend pass through lunch court.
BRAD: Brad waits for him to pass.
BUDDY #1: Yeah. They hacked his hours, so he Where is he now?
BRAD: Where is he now?
BUDDY #1: Making two eighty at Seven-Eleven.
BRAD: ( pause ) They make you wear a fuckin' candy stripe suit over there.
BUDDY #2: Poor guy.
BRAD: Poor guy.
BATHROOM: near the outer rim of lunch court. Jeff Spicoli comes stumbling out into the daylight, surrounded by a small group of Ridgemont Stoners. Marijuana smoke billows out behind them.
SPICOLI: The motherfucker pissed me off.
SPICOLI: I didn't take that shit. They all laugh, flip hair out of their eyes.
SPICOLI: I called him a dick. And then I reached for his class notes, and I ripped 'em up. I said, 'Hey bud. Two can play this game.' The Stoners go wild.
SPICOLI: You got it. Gimme a dollar. One surfer digs out a dollar for Spicoli. They look out at lunch court, see it teeming with straight kids. They turn and walk towards the parking lot.
LINDA: I hear some surfer pulled a knife on Mr. Hand this morning.
STACY: No way! He just called him a dick.
LINDA: God. People exaggerate so much at this school. The school couple, Cindy and Gregg walk by.
CINDY: Hi, Linda. God, you look so great.
LINDA: Hi, you guys. This is Stacy. Stacy, this is Gregg Adams and Cindy Carr.
LINDA: If there's one thing that never changes. it's a cheerleader. Stacy turns to see a girl with short, black hair passing by, wearing tight black spandex pants, and dark lipstick.
STACY: Linda. That girl looks just like Pat Benatar.
LINDA: I know. They watch her pass.
STACY: Do you think guys find that Oh, give me a break, Stacy. You're much prettier than them. They sit and eat their lunches. Linda has her perennial diet lunch of yogurt and raw vegetables.
LINDA: Oh, give me a break, Stacy. You're much prettier than them. They sit and eat their lunches. Linda has her perennial diet lunch of yogurt and raw vegetables.
STACY: Yeah but they look more sophisticated. You'd probably think they'd be better in bed.
LINDA: What do you mean 'better in bed.' You either do it or you don't.
STACY: No there are variables that, like, I might not be good at.
LINDA: What variables?
STACY: ( shyly ) Like, you know, giving blow jobs.
LINDA: What's the big deal?
STACY: Well I never did it.
LINDA: There's nothing to it. She takes out a carrot stick and eases it down her throat. Stacv tries one but chokes.
STACY: What happens. don't laugh at me, but when a guy has an orgasm. you know, like, how much comes out. Stacy stops practicing and looks horrified. Linda Just kidding. About 10cc.
LINDA: Just kidding. About 10cc.
STACY: ( enlightened ) Oh! That's where that group got its name from. They continue practicing as the boys look on. Stacy manages to get almost a whole carrot down her throat to Linda's amazement. The group of boys break out in applause. Stacy looks very embarrassed.
GIRL STUDENT: I'll tell you right now. I'm not going. I'll get sick or something. I'm not going into a room with a bunch of dead guys.
ARNOLD: You'll go. It's part of the final.
GIRL STUDENT: ( a Pat Benatar ) Have you heard what they do? I'm serious. Have you heard?
BOY STUDENT: The bodies are dissected, Mike, and Mr. Vargas pulls out parts of the dead body and holds them up. Okay?
ARNOLD: The bodies are dissected, Mike, and Mr. Vargas pulls out parts of the dead body and holds them up. Okay?
BOY STUDENT: You mean he reaches in and pulls this stuff out?
GIRL STUDENT: BOY STUDENT Like a heart?
BOY STUDENT: Like a heart?
GIRL STUDENT: Hearts, lungs, guts. Stacy strains to hear more, just as Mr. Vargas a diminutive man holding a coffee mug enters the Good day, everyone! I just switched to Sanka. I'm running a little slow today, so have a heart.
MR. VARGAS: Good day, everyone! I just switched to Sanka. I'm running a little slow today, so have a heart.
DISSOLVE: INT. STACY'S ROOM - NIGHT We see Stacy's room, a young girl's room with posters and frilly pillows. Stacy is in bed, and her Mother is just leaving the room.
MOTHER: Sleep tight, Stacy.
STACY: Good night, Mom. Her Mother shuts off the light, exits. Stacy pulls back the covers. She is fully dressed.
STACY: ( a little nervous ) Thanks for picking me up.
RON: No problem. He speeds off, turning up the radio to sing along.
STACY: Thanks. So do you.
RON: Where do you feel like going?
STACY: I don't know. Wherever you want.
RON: How about the point?
STACY: ( nervously ) The point sounds fine.
RON: ( looks at her knowingly ) All right, the point it is. We see Stacy's anxious face, as the car speeds up Ridgemont Drive, with music.
STACY: That's a nice shirt.
RON: Thanks. Thanks a lot. Silence. They look at each other, look away.
STACY: It is. It's very warm. I wonder how long it will last? Ron leans over and kisses Stacy lightly on the cheek. Stacy sits quietly for a moment, thinking, was that the first move? Then she lunges at Ron and kisses him square on the mouth. At first surprised, Ron then holds her there and kisses her in return. After a time, he breaks away.
RON: Are you really nineteen?
STACY: Yes. I am really nineteen. They continue making out.
RON: I think I better take you home.
STACY: What about those other guys you live with?
RON: No. I mean back to your home. But they make no moves in any direction. They continue making out. Ron begins unbuttoning her blouse and massaging Stacy's breasts. A moment later, he tugs at her pants. Awkwardly, she starts to help him. He tilts her backward onto the concrete dugout bench. They kiss feverishly, her hand pulling off her shoes, then her pants. Ron goes to work.
STACY: STACY'S POINT OF VIEW as she feels a man enter her for the first time, we see the graffiti above her:
DISSOLVE: EXT. SCHOOL LOCKERS - DAY Stacy is standing by her locker, twirling the combination. She is joined by Linda Barrett.
LINDA: Was it great?
STACY: It was okay.
I LINDA: You'll always remember your first It was nice.
STACY: It was nice.
LINDA: So tell me, do you like Ron? Is it Come on, Linda. It's just sex.
STACY: Come on, Linda. It's just sex.
LINDA: Hey! That's my line! They both laugh and walk down the hall.
BRAD: Mom says to clean up the pool.
STACY: Why can't you do it?
BRAD: Your friends use the pool. Your friends messed it up.
STACY: Your friends use the pool too.
BRAD: I take out the garbage.
STACY: Don't strain yourself. Stacy bristles, and heads inside the front door.
STACY: Brad! Have Mom or Dad seen this?
BRAD: They're not home yet.
STACY: Brad, what would you say if I asked you to just put these flowers in the trunk of the Cruising Vessel and get rid of them at work?
BRAD: I'd say. who the hell is Ron I'll explain everything later. Brad nods, as Stacy pushes the flowers into his INT. DAMONE'S ROOM - AFTERNOON Damone expertly fills two glasses three-quarters full of Kahlua, then adds a few drops of milk. Music is playing on a nearby speaker. Damone hands The Rat a drink and checks himself out in his See that moustache coming in, Rat? There is only a hint of peach fuzz, but he grooms it anyway.
STACY: I'll explain everything later. Brad nods, as Stacy pushes the flowers into his INT. DAMONE'S ROOM - AFTERNOON Damone expertly fills two glasses three-quarters full of Kahlua, then adds a few drops of milk. Music is playing on a nearby speaker. Damone hands The Rat a drink and checks himself out in his See that moustache coming in, Rat? There is only a hint of peach fuzz, but he grooms it anyway.
DAMONE: See that moustache coming in, Rat? There is only a hint of peach fuzz, but he grooms it anyway.
THE RAT: I am in love. Damone takes a sip of his drink, looks at The Rat.
DAMONE: You. are a wuss. Part wimp. Part What do you mean wuss? This girl is my exact type. It's her. Definitely her.
THE RAT: What do you mean wuss? This girl is my exact type. It's her. Definitely her.
DAMONE: ( distracted ) It's definitely your mama.
THE RAT: Damone, you gotta listen to me. Damone quits puttering around his room with the Kahlua and milk. He grabs a chair and straddles it.
DAMONE: All right. where did you see her?
THE RAT: She's in my biology class.
DAMONE: Did you get her number?
THE RAT: Did you get her name?
DAMONE: Did you get her name?
THE RAT: No. It's too soon.
DAMONE: It's never too soon! Girls decide how far to let you go in the first five minutes.
THE RAT: Well, what do you want me to do? Go up to this strange girl in my biology class and say, 'Hello! I'd like you to take your clothes off and jump on me?'
DAMONE: ( thoughtfully ) I would. Yeah.
THE RAT: I can see it all now. This is going to be just like the girl you fell in love with at Fotomat this summer. You bought forty bucks of fuckin' film and you never even talked to her.
DAMONE: I can see it all now. This is going to be just like the girl you fell in love with at Fotomat this summer. You bought forty bucks of fuckin' film and you never even talked to her.
THE RAT: ( woeful ) You tell me, Mike. What do I do?
DAMONE: Okay. Okay. Here's what you do. Damone gets up, moves to the door.
THE RAT: Of course something happens. You put the vibe out to thirty million chicks, you know something's gonna That's the idea, Rat. That's The The Attitude? The Attitude dictates that you don't care if she comes, stays, lays or prays. Whatever happens, your toes are still When you are the cruelest and the coolest. then you have The Damone knocks down the rest of his drink, and we.
DAMONE: That's the idea, Rat. That's The The Attitude? The Attitude dictates that you don't care if she comes, stays, lays or prays. Whatever happens, your toes are still When you are the cruelest and the coolest. then you have The Damone knocks down the rest of his drink, and we.
THE RAT: The Attitude? The Attitude dictates that you don't care if she comes, stays, lays or prays. Whatever happens, your toes are still When you are the cruelest and the coolest. then you have The Damone knocks down the rest of his drink, and we.
DISSOLVE: INT. CARL'S JR. KITCHEN - NIGHT We see Brad operating at full throttle in the kitchen, and taking a moment to sneak a kiss with his girlfriend Lisa as she goes to the front counter to open up a cash register. She allows him only one kiss.
LISA: Were those flowers really for me, Of course.
BRAD: Of course.
LISA: How much did they cost?
BRAD: Don't worry about it. She gives him a kiss. on the cheek.
LISA: What's there to do at the Point? Brad shifts his weight, tries to find the right What's there to do at the Point? God, Lisa, we've been going together almost two years, and.
BRAD: What's there to do at the Point? God, Lisa, we've been going together almost two years, and.
LISA: Brad. I don't want to have to use sex as a tool.
BRAD: Tool? Tool for what? We've been going together almost two years!
LISA: I don't want to talk about it here, Brad prepares to respond. He squints his eyes, prepares for a truly sizzling comeback, when Dennis Taylor, short and prematurely balding assistant manager of Carl's Jr., comes bustling out of his back office. He quickly surveys the situation in the kitchen.
TAYLOR: Hamilton! You have fifteen double cheese to box! Lisa returns to her cashier post, leaving Brad's last words stalled in his mouth.
BRAD: Come on in. Stacy walks into Brad's room.
STACY: Thanks for getting rid of those Don't worry about it. Who sent the It's just some guy I met at Swenson's. You don't know him.
BRAD: Don't worry about it. Who sent the It's just some guy I met at Swenson's. You don't know him.
STACY: It's just some guy I met at Swenson's. You don't know him.
BRAD: I don't care it you tell me or not. I got problems of my own. He begins pacing.
STACY: Is everything okay at work?
BRAD: Are you kidding? Work is great. I kill at work. I don't even mind Mom and Dad making me pay rent.
STACY: You're going to break up with Lisa, aren't you?
BRAD: I've been doing some thinking. It's my last school year. I'm a single, successful guy. I think I want my Why? Because she won't sleep with Where did you hear that?
STACY: Why? Because she won't sleep with Where did you hear that?
BRAD: Where did you hear that?
STACY: I'm just guessing.
BRAD: Well. it's true.
STACY: Maybe you just need to give her some time. She's so nice, Brad. Everybody loves Lisa.
BRAD: Everybody loves Lisa. Everybody loves Lisa. But everybody doesn't have to be her boyfriend. Suddenly, Stacy pops the question.
STACY: Hey, Brad. Are you still a virgin?
BRAD: I don't know. I was just curious.
STACY: I don't know. I was just curious.
BRAD: Maybe yes. Maybe no.
STACY: You are a virgin!
BRAD: I didn't say that.
STACY: But your face did! They laugh. Then Brad turns serious.
BRAD: Are you still a virgin?
STACY: Maybe yes. Maybe no.
BRAD: Don't give me that shit! I know you're still a virgin! Stacy smiles and stands up. She playfully slaps her brother on the arm and walks down the hallway to her room. We can see there is less frill and lace in Stacy's room. The junior high paperbacks are gone. There are no dolls in sight.
STACY: There. There's his car. I know he's at work tonight. He hasn't come into Swenson's since he called my house. My mother told him I was still at high school, after I told him I was nineteen. I guess I should tell him I'm fifteen.
LINDA: Don't you dare, you'll never hear from him again.
STACY: Does Doug care that you're Doug sees beyond that stuff to what the person inside is like. That's why I'm marrying him.
LINDA: Doug sees beyond that stuff to what the person inside is like. That's why I'm marrying him.
STACY: If he ever calls again I'll say I'm Boy I am so glad to be through with all these games. They enter the mall.
LINDA: Boy I am so glad to be through with all these games. They enter the mall.
MR. HAND: C. D. F. F. F. three weeks we've been talking about the Platt Amendment. What are you people? On dope? A piece of legislation was introduced into Congress by Senator John Platt. It was passed in 1906. This amendment to our Constitution has a profound impact upon all of our daily Mr. Hand stops on a dime. He is like a champion hunting dog that has just picked up the scent. He scans the room.
DESMOND: I saw him by the food machines.
MR. HAND: How long ago?
DESMOND: Just before class, sir. Mr. Hand snaps his fingers, Hawaii Five-O style.
MR. HAND: Okay. Bring him in. Desmond hustles out the door.
SPICOLI: Hey! Wait a minute! There's no birthday party for me here!
MR. HAND: Thank you, Desmond. What's the reason for your truancy?
SPICOLI: I couldn't make it in time.
MR. HAND: ( in top form ) You mean, you couldn't? Or you I don't know, mon. The food lines took forever.
SPICOLI: I don't know, mon. The food lines took forever.
MR. HAND: Food will be eaten on your time! Why are you continuously late for this class, Mr. Spicoli? Why do you shamelessly waste my time like I don't know. Mr. Hand appears mesmerized. He then turns and heads for the board. He writes in long, large letters as he slams the chalk into the green board. He writes: "I DON'T KNOW".
SPICOLI: I don't know. Mr. Hand appears mesmerized. He then turns and heads for the board. He writes in long, large letters as he slams the chalk into the green board. He writes: "I DON'T KNOW".
MR. HAND: I like that. He stands back and admires it. He turns randomly to Don't you like that, Miss Hamilton?
STACY: Yes, sir.
MR. HAND: I really like that too. 'I don't know'. that's nice. 'Mr. Hand, will I pass this class?' 'Gee, Mr. Spicoli, I don't know'. I like I think I'm going to leave your words on this board for all my classes to enjoy. Giving you full credit, of course, Mr. Spicoli. We hear the blare of the dismissal bell. Stacy and the other students get up to leave. Spicoli stays in place. He has just figured out a truly bitchin' comeback. and his mouth is forming the first word, when Mr. Hand cuts him off.
LINDA: You've got to get used to working Christmas. People are always screaming and yelling. then they get home and they're all I think Christmas brings out the worst in people.
STACY: I think Christmas brings out the worst in people.
LINDA: I guess Ron hasn't called yet.
STACY: Not since November. Linda nods her head, always the coach.
LINDA: Stacy, it doesn't look good for the Stacy continues making her ice cream, slapping the scoops onto the stainless steel dish.
STACY: ( sighs ) Don't you think it meant anything to him. Even if I am fifteen?
LINDA: Stacy. What does it matter? He's a stereo salesman. You want to marry him? You want to have kids with him? You want this guy to come home, fifty years old, and he's still got that little Pacific Stereo badge on? Come on.
STACY: I should quit this job. I'm going to get so fat working here. nobody will ever take me out.
LINDA: Stacy. How many times do I have to tell you? You are really going to be beautiful. someday.
STACY: Thanks a lot. Linda punches Stacy lightly on the shoulder.
LINDA: Hey Ron Johnson? It's his loss. We follow Stacy, as she walks into the dining room to serve the sundae.
DAMONE: The business is changing, Rat. I'll tell you, these kids today. they don't even listen to Aerosmith.
THE RAT: I hear they all dress like that at Lincoln now.
DAMONE: There used to be three or four of those guys. Now we see 'em every time we come to the mall. Damone is approached by a couple of young ticket Got any Blue Oyster Cult tickets?
CUSTOMER #1: Got any Blue Oyster Cult tickets?
DAMONE: No Cult. I ate twenty-four pairs of Blue Oyster Cult tickets last time around. I was this close to working at 7-11. No Cult. Suddenly we see all ticket business stop. Damone and his customers see someone menacingly coming directly for them. The small crowd parts as Charles Jefferson, football duffel bag in hand, walks up. With him is a thick, tough, miniature version of himself. This is Little Charles. They both stop in front of Damone.
JEFFERSON: ( after long look ) When is Earth, Wind and Fire ( respectfully ) I'm really not sure. I haven't heard anything yet, but I'll let you know the second there is the slightest news, sir.
DAMONE: ( respectfully ) I'm really not sure. I haven't heard anything yet, but I'll let you know the second there is the slightest news, sir.
JEFFERSON: I'm taking my little brother.
DAMONE: Excellent. So that will be two tickets. All right. Fine, sir. Jefferson and L.C. push past the customers.
CUSTOMER #2: Wow. He really lives here. I thought he just flew in for the football games.
DAMONE: ( gaining composure ) Shit, he's my man. He knows where to come for tickets. Damone turns to The Rat.
THE RAT: She is immune to my charms. They walk together towards Swenson's, as The Rat drapes his aqua-blue Cinema Four jacket around his shoulders, like a French film director. Damone walks a few steps, then stops Rat.
DAMONE: Hey, Rat.
THE RAT: Ace the jacket. The Rat considers the suggestion, gets rid of the jacket. They continue towards Swenson's.
DAMONE: Ace the jacket. The Rat considers the suggestion, gets rid of the jacket. They continue towards Swenson's.
STACY: Hi. May I help you? The Rat feels the beginnings of cold panic, but barges through nonetheless.
THE RAT: Yes. I have two questions. I was His voice becomes a shade deeper. He begins to pull The Attitude together.
STACY: ( smiling ) We keep them.
THE RAT: You keep them.
STACY: We keep them, in case the people come back. She reaches under the counter and pulls out a cardboard box with some rumbled jackets and other Here they are. You can look through it, if you want. The Rat chuckles to himself, struggling with The It's cool. It would take too much time to go through all that stuff. I'll just pick up a new one. Stacy smiles. He's obviously awkward, and she likes What's your other question?
THE RAT: It's cool. It would take too much time to go through all that stuff. I'll just pick up a new one. Stacy smiles. He's obviously awkward, and she likes What's your other question?
STACY: What's your other question?
THE RAT: My other question is. can-I-have To The Rat's surprise, Stacy continues smiling.
STACY: Do you have a pen? This one's out of ink.
THE RAT: Oh. yes. He pulls one out of his jacket pocket, gives it to her. Stacy writes her name and phone number on a scrap of paper and gives it to him. The Rat looks at the paper.
BRAD: ( talking to mirror ) Lisa? I have something to tell you. Look, I'm a senior now. I'm a single, successful guy and I've got to be fair to myself. Lisa. I think I need my freedom. Brad pauses, looks at the mirror soulfully.
ARNOLD: Brad! I know you're on your break, but would you cover me on register Brad nods, exits:
DENNIS: Come on. Clean that counter off Brad. Let's go. Play ball.
BRAD: Okay, Dennis. Brad begins polishing the counter and Dennis Taylor returns to his office at the back of the kitchen. Brad watches him disappear behind the door that says: ASSISTANT MANAGER. As soon as Dennis disappears behind the door, the one Businessman in the place rises and returns to the counter.
BUSINESSMAN: Yes. This is not the best breakfast I ever ate. The Businessman points to the huge display over Brad's head: TRY OUR 100% GUARANTEED BREAKFAST.
BRAD: Well, I believe you have to fill out a form. There's a pad right around here.
BUSINESSMAN: No. I want my money back right now.
BRAD: Well, that's not the way it works, really. And you ate most of your food already, too.
BUSINESSMAN: See that sign? It says 100% Money Back Guarantee. Do you know the meaning of the word 'guarantee'? Do they teach you that here? Give me my money back. Brad begins looking to the restroom. "Where's I can't do that. But if you wait a Look. Just put your little hand back in the cash register and give me my $2.75 back. Okay? Please, Brad?
BRAD: I can't do that. But if you wait a Look. Just put your little hand back in the cash register and give me my $2.75 back. Okay? Please, Brad?
BUSINESSMAN: ( as if talking to a kindergartner ) Look. Just put your little hand back in the cash register and give me my $2.75 back. Okay? ( looks at name tag ) Please, Brad?
BRAD: I'm sorry, sir. Just let me find the forms here.
BUSINESSMAN: I am so tired. I am so tired of dealing with morons. How hard is it Brad looks up from under the counter. No amount of pay will make him take that kind of insult.
BRAD: Mister, if you don't shut up, I'm gonna kick 100% of your ass.
BUSINESSMAN: "Bam!" The door to the Assistant Manager's office swings open, and Dennis comes hurtling out of the Angle on bathroom door as it opens and Arnold starts towards the register. He quickly sees the incident with the irate Businessman and ducks back inside the bathroom.
DENNIS: Can I help you, sir? Is there a You bet there's a problem! Your employee used profanity and threatened me with violence! I'm shocked, frankly. I've eaten here many times and I've always enjoyed the service until today! Angle on bathroom door as it opens and Arnold starts towards the register. He quickly sees the incident with the irate Businessman and ducks back inside the bathroom.
BUSINESSMAN: You bet there's a problem! Your employee used profanity and threatened me with violence! I'm shocked, frankly. I've eaten here many times and I've always enjoyed the service until today! Angle on bathroom door as it opens and Arnold starts towards the register. He quickly sees the incident with the irate Businessman and ducks back inside the bathroom.
DENNIS: Did you threaten this man or use profanity in any way?
BRAD: He insulted me first. He called me a moron.
DENNIS: Did you threaten this customer or use profanity in any way?
BRAD: Yes, sir.
DENNIS: You're fired. Brad looks around, expecting his friends to defend him. Dave and Rich seem very occupied with their work. Brad is stunned.
BUSINESSMAN: Thank you very much. Then Brad unhooks his fryer's apron and throws it on the counter. He grabs a backpack and walks out of the place. On the way, he bangs the bathroom door with his fist.
BRAD: I hope you had a hell of a piss, INT. BRAD'S ROOM - DAY He arrives back in his room and locks the door. He yanks the burger picture off his wall, dumps it into the trash. Then he takes it back out of the trash and cracks the cardboard picture and plastic frame in half.
DISSOLVE: INT. BRAD'S ROOM - DAY He arrives back in his room and locks the door. He yanks the burger picture off his wall, dumps it into the trash. Then he takes it back out of the trash and cracks the cardboard picture and plastic frame in half.
DARKNESS: We are in the middle of a deep, dark void. After a moment, a pinprick of light appears in the distance. We head towards the light. We are being led somewhere important. As we draw still closer, curtains suddenly part to reveal a wildly cheering studio audience. We hear the voice of Merv Griffin.
SPICOLI: ( singing ) 'Layin' ladies! Drinkin' wine! You gotta dollar You're a friend of mine! Gettin' loose! Feelin' fine! You and me It's get down time! We're on the Highway to Hell! The Highway to Hell!' Spicoli finishes up with a spectular pump. The audience goes wild as Merv Griffin greets him warmly, and guides Spicoli to his seat. Spicoli motions for the cheers to die down. Griffin is obviously happy to see him. He touches Spicoli's arm lightly.
GRIFFIN: How've you been?
SPICOLI: Outrageous, Merv. Nice to be here. I feel great.
GRIFFIN: I was going to say. your eyes look a little red.
SPICOLI: I've been swimming, Merv. The audience howls. It's a famous Spicoli line.
GRIFFIN: ( concerned ) I wanted to talk a little bit about school, if I could.
SPICOLI: ( sighs ) School is no problem. All you have to do is go to get the grades. And if you know something, all you have to do is go about half the time.
GRIFFIN: How often do you go?
SPICOLI: I don't go at all. The audience is howling again. He is Merv's favorite guest.
GRIFFIN: I hear you brought a film clip with you. Do you want to set it up for Well, it pretty much speaks for itself. Peter, you want to run with EXT. A MASSIVE WAVE - DAY The film clip begins. It is a mammoth wave cresting against the blue sky.
SPICOLI: Well, it pretty much speaks for itself. Peter, you want to run with EXT. A MASSIVE WAVE - DAY The film clip begins. It is a mammoth wave cresting against the blue sky.
SPICOLI: That's me, Merv. The audience gasps.
SPICOLI: We watch as Spicoli catches the perfect wave, and it hurtles him through a turquoise tube of water.
GRIFFIN: What's going through your mind right here, Jeff? The danger of it Merv, I'm thinking. I've only got about four good hours of surfing left before these little clowns from junior high start showing up with their boogie boards. The audience is howling once again. when suddenly we hear the loud noise of a door opening, followed by a shrill voice. It is Spicoli's eight-year-old brother, Curtis. Jeff Spicoli's dream of glory evaporates.
SPICOLI: Merv, I'm thinking. I've only got about four good hours of surfing left before these little clowns from junior high start showing up with their boogie boards. The audience is howling once again. when suddenly we hear the loud noise of a door opening, followed by a shrill voice. It is Spicoli's eight-year-old brother, Curtis. Jeff Spicoli's dream of glory evaporates.
CURTIS: Dad says you have to get up!
SPICOLI: He groans, starts to struggle out of bed.
CURTIS: Dad says you're late again, you Leave me alone.
SPICOLI: Leave me alone.
CURTIS: Dad says! Spicoli reaches over to the floor next to his bed. He pulls a snorkel from the mess, heaves it at the door and his little brother. It bounces off the wall and doesn't even hit Curtis, but the kid starts crying anyway.
CINDY: I just want to say that we are not 'Spirit Bunnies' anymore. We always hated that name. It bugged the heck out of Dina and me.
DINA: It's just such a put down.
CINDY: They don't call the Chess Club 'Checker Champs' or anything like that. We're going to go to everything this year, you guys. We're going to go to soccer, wrestling, basketball. everything. We know you've got a lot of spirit! Everybody riiiiiight? And we're gonna destroy Lincoln next week? Riiiiiiight?
BRAD: Man, I don't even want to see those guys from Carl's again.
LISA: If you'd apologize I think Dennis would take you back.
BRAD: Apologize to that wimp? No way. Fuck Dennis Taylor. They sit in silence for a moment.
LISA: ( sighs ) Look, Brad, I've been trying to think of a way to tell you this. We're almost out of high school, this is our last year. I think we owe it to ourselves to be free, and meet some new people. Then, if we get back together, we'll know it's the right thing.
CINDY: We're going to be going to every game this year. We just want the crowd to participate and we want spirit from every little person in this entire school. Allll-Riiiight? There is unenthusiastic, minor applause from the assembled students of Ridgemont High. Vice Principal Ray Connors, a tough-looking man with an H.R. Haldeman crew cut, approaches the podium. He has a sour look on his face.
CONNORS: Well, thank you, girls. People, don't forget, the big game is one week away. We'll see everybody back here on Monday and have a good For the first time during this assembly, there is a loud and hearty applause.
ARNAZ: Driving ess an important part of each and every one of our da-ily lives. Ees a responsibility like no o-ther and ess a matter of life A ball comes rolling out into the serene street. A small child runs out after it. The driving of our vehicle brakes, but not in time. The film freeze frames on the terrified face of a child about to be There is a swell of dramatic music.
STACY: What do you think of that guy who works at the theatre? You know, Mark Ratner.
LINDA: Oh, come on. What is he? Fifteen?
STACY: Linda looks nauseous.
LINDA: Just watch out if he pulls up in a van, and then puts on a Led Zeppelin tape.
ARNAZ: The driver here has had jus' two drinks. Two drinks at the home of a We hear the very-present sounds of Driver's Training students.
STUDENT #1: He's fucked-up, Ricky!
STUDENT #2: They guys a drunk, Ricky!
ARNAZ: And although this driver thinks he ees drivin' well, he may be 'doing okay, but he forgets to per-ceive what ees real goin' on. In the film, another car comes barreling from the left, running a stop sign and exploding into the side of the two-drink goner. In the class, the Driver's Training students are howling.
SPICOLI: Be noble. Be aggressive. The thing about Missile Command is to decimate before you can be decimated. Just like in real life. The youngsters hang on every word of the sage ANGLE ON A GANG OF SURF NAZIS walking in formation.
DAMONE: Check it out, Rat. The Surf Nazis. out for a Sunday stroll. Damone and The Rat walk on. The Rat is barely interested. He appears deep in thought.
THE RAT: What do I say after she gets in the Damone, obviously in his element here at the mall, stops to flash a winning smile at a well-built older housewife.
DAMONE: No problem, Rat. What you need is my special Five Point Plan. As he talks, Damone passes a Country Farms shop. He plucks a free sample of cheese and sausage.
THE RAT: Knock it off, Damone. I need real What do you mean? Men have died trying to obtain this information. I will give it to you for free. The Rat and Damone continue on.
DAMONE: What do you mean? Men have died trying to obtain this information. I will give it to you for free. The Rat and Damone continue on.
THE RAT: Okay. Tell me. What's the Five Point Plan?
DAMONE: All right. Pay attention. The Rat nods, always the student, as they pass a Wherehouse Record store. Damone stops right in front of a seductively posed life-sized cardboard stand-up of Debbie Harry, the alluring rock singer. Damone begins his speech.
THE RAT: I think I've got it. Once I get going, I'll be okay. But. how do I get started? I mean, I hardly know her.
DAMONE: You wuss. It's no problem. One person says something to the other and that's how it starts. Standing there in the front of the Wherehouse, The Rat nods his head and smiles. He's finally beginning to understand, and we.
STACY: Thanks for coming to get me.
THE RAT: Sure thing. EXT. THE RAT'S CAR He rounds the corner of Luna Street, off the neon fast-food stand that is Ridgemont Drive.
STACY: This is a nice car.
THE RAT: Yeah. It's my sister's. Do you have Mrs. George for Yeah. She is pretty good.
STACY: Do you have Mrs. George for Yeah. She is pretty good.
THE RAT: Yeah. She is pretty good.
STACY: Yeah. She is pretty good.
THE RAT: Joey at Cinema Four said this is a pretty good restaurant.
STACY: I've heard that, too. The Rat finds a parking spot near the back of the lot, grateful that the long silence is over. He walks with Stacy to the front of The Atlantis.
THE RAT: Do you know what you want?
STACY: I think I'll have the Seafood Salad The Rat leans back in the booth. He is starting to feel in control now. Then something hits him. The panic sweeps across his face. Slowly, The Rat reaches back to check his wallet. It's gone.
THE RAT: The Rat leans back in the booth. He is starting to feel in control now. Then something hits him. The panic sweeps across his face. Slowly, The Rat reaches back to check his wallet. It's gone.
STACY: Are you all right?
THE RAT: ( weakly ) Oh yeah. Cool. Cool was the name of the game. Stay cool.
STACY: Not at all. Just as The Rat is about to get up, the Waitress approaches the table.
WAITRESS: Are you ready to order here?
THE RAT: Well. sure. She will have the Seafood Salad Special. And I will have. the Anything to drink?
WAITRESS: Anything to drink?
THE RAT: Two Cokes.
WAITRESS: Okay. Thanks. The Rat gets back up again, looking paler by the minute. He excuses himself and walks over to the pay phone by the Atlantis toilets. The Rat dials a number. Damone answers.
DAMONE: THE RAT ( V.O. ) Damone. It's Mark.
DAMONE: Mark. What happened to your date?
THE RAT: It's happening right now. I'm here at the Atlantis. Everything's fine except. I left my wallet at home.
DAMONE: Did you go home and get it?
THE RAT: No. It's too late. The food is coming and everything. Damone, I've got to ask you this favor, and I'll never ask you for anything again in this lifetime or any other. Will you please borrow your mom's car, go by my house, get my wallet, and meet me back here? There is silence.
DAMONE: ( world-weary sigh ) I'm really pretty busy.
DISSOLVE: INT. STACY AND THE RAT'S TABLE - AN HOUR LATER The Rat and Stacy have finished the meal, and ANGLE ON THE CHECK as it sits in a little tray before The Rat. The Waitress approaches the table. It is clear she wants to make room for other customers and bigger
WAITRESS: Are you sure there's nothing else I can bring you?
THE RAT: I'll have one more Coke. Do you want another Coke, Stacy?
STACY: ( quizzical ) ) Sure. I'll. have another Coke.
THE RAT: Two more Cokes.
WAITRESS: ( sarcastic ) Two. more. Cokes.
DAMONE: Hey, Mark. Is that you?
THE RAT: Damone! You come here?
DAMONE: I come for the seafood. It's great! Hey. you know what, Mark? I found your wallet the other day. You want it back?
THE RAT: Wow. I've been looking for that thing! Hey, Damone, have you met Stacy Hamilton? Stacy, this is Mike Stacy smiles politely, with the slightest sparkle in her eye, as the Waitress returns with the two Well, I've gotta be running.
DAMONE: Well, I've gotta be running.
THE RAT: Okay. See ya.
DAMONE: Nice to meet you, Stacy.
STACY: Nice to meet you. Damone leaves. The Rat takes a few quick gulps of Coke, and gets up to pay the bill. As he moves out of camera range, we see the strange look on the faces of waitresses and diners.
THE RAT: I had a really nice time tonight.
STACY: Me, too. I'm real sorry someone broke in and stole your tape deck. The Rat nods glumly.
THE RAT: I never thought it would happen at The Atlantis. Jeez.
STACY: Do you want to come inside?
THE RAT: Aren't your parents asleep?
STACY: No, they're away for the weekend. Brad and I are watching the house.
THE RAT: Okay. Sure. I'll come in. We see a confused but interested look on The Rat's INT. THE HAMILTON HOUSE - EVENING They walk in the front door. The Rat stands uncomfortably in the doorway to the living room.
THE RAT: Where's your brother?
STACY: I don't know. Probably out. Want something to drink?
THE RAT: No. That's okay.
STACY: Well, I'm going to change real quick. I hope you don't mind.
THE RAT: Naw. I don't mind. Stacy turns her back and pulls up her hair.
STACY: Will you unzip me?
THE RAT: So. pretty nice house you've got Thanks. So. What do you want to do?
STACY: Thanks. So. What do you want to do?
THE RAT: I don't know.
STACY: Do you want to see some pictures? I kept a lot of scrapbooks and pictures and stuff from junior high. How stupid, right?
THE RAT: Stacy goes to her closet, reaches up to grab the books from the top shelf. The Rat watches her robe slip up her legs. Then she sits down next to him. Her knee grazes his. It is almost too much for The Rat. Go for it. We see The Rat struggle with the action of putting his arm around her. He almost does, but then reacts as she says suddenly.
STACY: This is me in the eighth grade. Did you have Mr. Deegan?
THE RAT: ( looking pained ) Oh, yeah. I had Mr. Deegan. Her knee grazes him again. Does she expect Look, Stacy, I want you to know The Rat struggles. Try as he might, he can't seem to cross the line. He can't make his move. He is woeful as he completes the sentence.
STACY: Do you really have to go?
THE RAT: Well. it's getting kind of late. Suddenly, The Rat is seized with ambition. He reaches one hand around her right shoulder and plants the other hand directly on her left breast. It looks something like a wrestling hold. The Rat looks at Stacy. Stacy looks back at The Rat. The Rat is absolutely frozen.
STACY: I guess it is getting late, Mark. She shrugs him off, walks him to the door.
THE RAT: You blew it, asshole. Behind him, recklessly speeding towards Ridgemont Drive, is Charles Jefferson's blue Mustang.
SPICOLI: I thought he was out of town.
SPICOLI: Then don't hassle it. They speed off down Ridgemont.
SPICOLI: Naw. Any good?
SPICOLI: All right.
SPICOLI: Hold your beer down, L.C., I think it's a cop. Spicoli slows down. The car behind him slows down.
SPICOLI: It's a bunch of Jocks in a Granada!
SPICOLI: All right. Die, Granada Jocks! Spicoli guns ahead, in a real bullet move, and easily overtakes the Granada. Spicoli is proud of himself. He checks himself out in the rearview and turns to L.C.
SPICOLI: You know the thing I love about Mustangs? The steering wheel. Spicoli fingers the bubbles in the wheel.
SPICOLI: Are you okay? There is silence. Outside the smashed car, the Granada Jocks pass Spicoli and L.C.
GRANADA JOCKS: Fuck youuuuuuuuuu! Then L.C. stirs and utters his first words.
SPICOLI: Just be glad you're all right.
SPICOLI: Make up your mind. Is he gonna shit, or is he gonna kill us?
SPICOLI: Will you just relax, mon? He's not gonna kill us. My father is a television repairman. He's got all kinds of tools. I can fix-this car.
SPICOLI: I can fix it.
DISSOLVE: EXT. RIDGEMONT SCHOOL - FLAGPOLE - DAY From the back of the parking lot, we see a crowd around the flagpole. A group of kids are staring at something. They sadly shake their heads at the sight, as if they are witnessing a funeral. As we draw closer, we see the center of commotion. It is an ugly sight. Someone had wrecked Charles Jefferson's Blue Scholarship Mustang and welded it to the flagpole. Spray-painted on the side was the message: LINCOLN SURF PUNKS RULE.
STUDENT #1: Hey, Brad! How's going?
BRAD: All right.
STUDENT #2: Where you working?
BRAD: Fish and chips place.
STUDENT #1: Which one?
BRAD: Just a fish and chips place. Brad says nothing more. The students look at each We'll be seeing you, Brad!
STUDENTS: We'll be seeing you, Brad!
BRAD: ( sullen ) EXT. FOOTBALL FIELD - THE GAME - NIGHT Everyone is cheering the amazing game on the field. Charles Jefferson is poised on the offensive line. He mutters a string of obscenities at the opposing Lincoln player. The ball is snapped, and Charles Jefferson comes directly at the player with both elbows up and angled to hit inside his helmet. The Lincoln player is hit and keels over. Charles Jefferson sets up for another play. The ball is snapped. Ka-boom. Down falls another Lincoln player. Jefferson doesn't know who it was who wrecked his Mustang, but he wasn't about to spare any of them. There is pure madness in his eyes. It has taken him over. The Ridgemont points rack up. Jefferson is single handedly maiming Lincoln for Homecoming.
SPICOLI: I think we may have gotten away EXT. FIELD AND SCOREBOARD The half-time gun fires and the score is 36-7. Ridgemont. Even the Ridgemont players steer clear of Charles Jefferson as they return to their locker EXT. THE HAMILTON POOL - HOT AFTERNOON - SEVERAL WEEKS LATER Linda and Stacy are sitting by the pool, dressed in string tie bathing suits. They are listening to the music of Tom Petty's "Breakdown" playing on the living room stereo. Linda luxuriously applies suntan lotion to her chest and legs, in long and writhing strokes. Stacy reads a book. It's called Total Orgasm. Several beats pass.
WEEKS LATER: Linda and Stacy are sitting by the pool, dressed in string tie bathing suits. They are listening to the music of Tom Petty's "Breakdown" playing on the living room stereo. Linda luxuriously applies suntan lotion to her chest and legs, in long and writhing strokes. Stacy reads a book. It's called Total Orgasm. Several beats pass.
LINDA: I sent a letter to Doug today. I'll be so glad when he gets out here.
STACY: ( engrossed in book ) You really ought to look at this, Linda. There's a drawing on every page. and all these quizzes. It's like school.
LINDA: Why don't you put your mother's secret book back? Linda continues regally applying lotion.
STACY: Listen to this. 'What are your mate's three most erogenous zones?'
LINDA: ( automatic ) Okay, penis, that's one, balls.
STACY: Wouldn't penis and balls be the same category?
LINDA: You're right. Probably penis, mouth and neck.
STACY: All right! Here's another one. 'The most satisfactory lovemaking occurs when your mate climaxes first, you climax first, you and your mate climax together?'
LINDA: Climax together.
STACY: Does that ever happen?
LINDA: No. But it's a nice idea.
STACY: Listen to this . it says 'Most women derive pleasure from sex, but they don't have real orgasms.' Linda stops applying lotion, considers that Well. they obviously don't know about Doug. They laugh. Linda resumes applying the lotion. Stacy continues reading the book. A couple of beats How long does Doug take?
LINDA: Well. they obviously don't know about Doug. They laugh. Linda resumes applying the lotion. Stacy continues reading the book. A couple of beats How long does Doug take?
STACY: How long does Doug take?
LINDA: I don't know. Thirty to forty What's Doug do in Chicago?
STACY: ( pause ) What's Doug do in Chicago?
LINDA: He works for the airline. He'll be out here. You'll meet him. Stacy looks at Linda, almost disbelieving.
DAMONE: Hey! We came over to help you with Math homework!
STACY: Oh, really?
THE RAT: Really. We figured you needed the help. On such a hot day. Stacy quickly stashes the book in a stack of towels beside her. She leans over to Linda and speaks What do you think?
STACY: What do you think?
LINDA: I think they're both virgins. Stacy smiles, gets up and goes over to the fence.
STACY: I didn't ask for any help. Did you, Well, that's exactly why I brought some Wisk for the jacuzzi.
LINDA: Well, that's exactly why I brought some Wisk for the jacuzzi.
DAMONE: Well, that's exactly why I brought some Wisk for the jacuzzi.
STACY: O-kay, you guys can come swimming. But you have to leave as soon as my Mom gets home. Okay?
DAMONE: Hey, Linda! I'll judge your dive. I'm a champion diver myself. Brad arrives home by the side gate and slams it behind him. He is home from a bad day at work. He walks out onto the patio and stands with his hands on his hips. For the first time, our former campus hero looks absurd. He is still in his uniform from Captain Kidd Fish and Chips it is a blue and white striped Pirates of the Caribbean outfit, complete with black plastic sword at the side, and a ridiculously large Ponce de Leon-esque hat. Brad carries the hat under his arm.
BRAD: Does Mom know you have company?
STACY: It's just Linda. And Mark from Brad ignores the underclassmen, and notices Linda on the board in her maroon bikini. He smiles.
BRAD: Hi, Linda.
LINDA: Hi, Brad.
BRAD: Well, you guys, keep it down. I've got some work to do upstairs. Brad turns and heads back inside. He is just out of earshot when they begin talking about him.
LINDA: God, he hardly even talks anymore.
STACY: I know. He hates to have to wear Poor guy.
DAMONE: Poor guy.
THE RAT: Stacy breaks the spell by jumping into the water, surfacing, and flipping over the tile wall into the Jacuzzi. She sits next to Damone, looking ANGLE ON DAMONE AND STACY IN THE JACUZZI talking while the others are at the other end of the pool.
THE RAT: Why don't you get up and do a dive, Go ahead.
LINDA: Go ahead.
DAMONE: No. I don't think so. Not right Linda, for one, loses interest quickly. Standing by the side of the pool, she jams a finger in her ear and wiggles it.
THE RAT: Linda, for one, loses interest quickly. Standing by the side of the pool, she jams a finger in her ear and wiggles it.
LINDA: Stacy! I've got water in my ears. Do you have any Q-Tips?
STACY: God, I don't think so. Better look in the house. Linda towels off and heads back inside the Hamilton house. She knows how to walk.
DISSOLVE: EXT. HAMILTON POOL - BRAD'S DAYDREAM It features Linda Barrett, just as she stood on the diving board a moment ago. She is gorgeous. Her breasts seem even bigger than usual. Her nipples are hard, poking through the film maroon string bikini. Water rolls slowly down her cheeks, into the corners of her mouth. Her lips are parted slightly. Her eyes are filled with desire as she
LINDA: Hi, Brad. You know how cute I always thought you were. I think you're so sexy. Will you come to me?
BRAD: Wait just a. minute.
LINDA: Sorry. I didn't know anybody was in Linda turns and goes immediately, as if she wants to forget what she saw as quickly as possible. She closes the door behind her.
BRAD: Doesn't anybody fuckin' knock He slams the toilet seat down and we.
MR. HAND: Now in 1898, Spain owned Cuba. Outright. Think about it. Cuba, owned by a disorganized parliament 4,000 miles away. Cubans were in a constant state of revolt. Mr. Hand begins pacing the aisles as he talks.
VOICE: Mr. Pizza.
MR. HAND: Mr. Pizza, sir! Hand swings the door open, out of curiosity. In walks a young Man in a Mr. Pizza delivery shirt.
VOICE: Mr. Pizza, sir! Hand swings the door open, out of curiosity. In walks a young Man in a Mr. Pizza delivery shirt.
PIZZA MAN: Okay, who had the double cheese sausage and bologna? Jeff Spicoli speaks up.
SPICOLI: That's me. The Delivery Man takes the pizza, sets it on the desk, as Spicoli whips out some crumpled dollars. Then he produces yet another crumpled dollar, and presses it into the Delivery Man's hand.
MR. HAND: Am I hallucinating here? Just what in the hell do you think you're Learning about Cuba. Having some Mr. Spicoli, you're on dangerous ground here. You're causing a major disturbance in my class and on my I've been thinking about this, Mr. Hand. If I'm here. and you're here. doesn't that make it our Mr. Hand is so furious he's almost shaking.
SPICOLI: Learning about Cuba. Having some Mr. Spicoli, you're on dangerous ground here. You're causing a major disturbance in my class and on my I've been thinking about this, Mr. Hand. If I'm here. and you're here. doesn't that make it our Mr. Hand is so furious he's almost shaking.
MR. HAND: Mr. Spicoli, you're on dangerous ground here. You're causing a major disturbance in my class and on my I've been thinking about this, Mr. Hand. If I'm here. and you're here. doesn't that make it our Mr. Hand is so furious he's almost shaking.
SPICOLI: ( cool and urbane ) I've been thinking about this, Mr. Hand. If I'm here. and you're here. doesn't that make it our Mr. Hand is so furious he's almost shaking.
STONER #1: There's the pizza.
STONER #2: Mr. Hand pushes the pizza into their hands and slams the door.
SPICOLI: You better save some for me, you And you, my friend. I'll see you for a two-hour detention every afternoon this week. Spicoli eases back in his chair, shrugs. It was a good idea at the time.
MR. HAND: And you, my friend. I'll see you for a two-hour detention every afternoon this week. Spicoli eases back in his chair, shrugs. It was a good idea at the time.
CUSTOMER: Why aren't you in school, son?
BRAD: I go to school in the mornings. I have a work study program for the He bags one final coffee and punches up the amount.
BRAD: $8.46, please.
CUSTOMER: Here you go. I have it exactly. Good luck!
BRAD: Thank you, and thanks for coming to Captain Kidd. Brad loosens his buccaneer scarf, and starts back towards the kitchen. He is stopped by the sudden appearance of Captain Kidd Assistant Manager, Hamilton! I'll take over the fryer. Those boys at IBM need some Catch of-the-Day boxes, and I told them you would personally deliver them within the hour. I'll reimburse you for gas. Brad dutifully unhooks his apron, to reveal the bottom half of his pirate suit.
HAROLD: Hamilton! I'll take over the fryer. Those boys at IBM need some Catch of-the-Day boxes, and I told them you would personally deliver them within the hour. I'll reimburse you for gas. Brad dutifully unhooks his apron, to reveal the bottom half of his pirate suit.
BRAD: Just write me out a bill. While Harold leans down to tally up the fish order, Brad goes to a nearby employee's closet. He has completely perfected the art of changing back into his street clothes, and it takes less than a minute. He is just about to finish buttoning his street shirt when Harold sees him.
HAROLD: Hamilton, come over here. What is that you've got on?
BRAD: This is how I dress all the time.
HAROLD: But you took off your Captain Kidd I thought I'd take it off for the drive over to IBM. It's kind of Harold can barely fathom the idea.
BRAD: I thought I'd take it off for the drive over to IBM. It's kind of Harold can barely fathom the idea.
HAROLD: Come on, Hamilton. You're going over there to represent Captain Kidd Fish and Chips. We have stores all over Southern California. Part of our image, part of our appeal is in our uniforms. You know that!
BRAD: You really want me to put all this stuff back on?
HAROLD: Yes. I think so. Show some pride, ANGLE ON BRAD as he stands there, stoic looking.
BRAD: I don't believe you're asking me to do this, but okay. He begins taking off his street shirt. He looks at Harold, looks at the boxes, and returns to the INT. THE CRUISING VESSEL Brad is driving down the freeway, listening to the music of Bruce Springsteen's "Out in the Streets." He pries open one of the fourteen Catch-of-the-Day boxes on the seat next to him and pulls out a small piece of fried fish. Brad takes a bite. The look on his face says it is the worst piece of shit he has ever tasted. He throws the piece out the window, and drives on. Brad turns to see a girl smiling at him from another car. It makes his afternoon. He returns the smile with gusto.
DISSOLVE: EXT. RIDGEMONT HIGH SCHOOL - AFTERNOON School is out and kids are leaving campus, heading for the parking lot and bus stop. We see Mike Damone carrying some books, walking towards Ridgemont Drive. He is joined by Stacy Hamilton, who hurries to catch up to him.
STACY: I can't wait until I can drive next year. I walk every day. It's such a Get a ride with somebody.
DAMONE: Get a ride with somebody.
STACY: Sometimes I get a ride with my brother. But he usually works in the mornings, and then drives to school himself.
DAMONE: What a guy. Damone turns to her after a moment, all Attitude.
STACY: Mark is a really nice boy. Stacy walks along, then stops and looks at Damone.
STACY: Do you want to come in for a The Attitude starts to weaken. After a long pause, Damone responds.
DAMONE: Do you have any ice tea?
STACY: Sure. Come on in. Stacy unlocks her front door, they go inside.
STACY: I guess the annuals are coming in pretty soon. Are you going to get I don't know.
DAMONE: I don't know.
STACY: Aren't you curious to see how your class picture turned out?
DAMONE: I know what I look like. Stacy places a glass of ice tea in front of him. They are all alone in the house.
STACY: Do you want to take a quick swim?
DAMONE: Brad probably has some trunks you can borrow. I'm going to my room to change! Damone stares straight ahead. She's going to her room to change. Stacy scoots down the hall toward her bedroom.
STACY: Brad probably has some trunks you can borrow. I'm going to my room to change! Damone stares straight ahead. She's going to her room to change. Stacy scoots down the hall toward her bedroom.
DAMONE: This is great ice tea!
STACY: ( from other room ) You don't have to shout! You can come back here to my room! Damone doesn't move. He pretends he doesn't hear. A moment later, Stacy comes bounding back down the hall in her green bikini. She grabs Damone by the Come with me! I know there's a suit in the changing room! She pulls him away.
STACY: Come with me! I know there's a suit in the changing room! She pulls him away.
STACY: Pick a suit.
DAMONE: I don't know. It's getting pretty She locks the door to the changing room and begins to walk towards Mike Damone.
STACY: Are you really a virgin?
DAMONE: Come on. He could feel his leg starting to shake the slightest bit.
STACY: It's okay if it's your first time. She gives him a kiss.
DAMONE: Listen. I feel pretty strange here. Because Mark really likes you, and he's my friend.
STACY: He's my friend, too. She gives him another kiss. He kisses her in return. Standing there, feeling Stacy in her bikini, feeling her kiss him, Damone also felt some of his reservations slip away.
DAMONE: You're a really good kisser.
STACY: So are you. Are you shaking?
DAMONE: ( shaking ) No. Are you crazy? It is clear that this is as far as Mr. Attitude has ever gotten with a girl. Stacy takes the initiative, rubbing her hands through his hair, rubbing his sides, kissing his neck, then pulling ( whispers ) Why don't you take off your clothes, Mike?
STACY: ( whispers ) Why don't you take off your clothes, Mike?
DAMONE: You first.
STACY: How about both of us at the same Damone nods, and watches as Stacy unhooks her top and steps out of her bikini bottom. She stands naked in the shadows of the afternoon sun. She sits down naked on a red changing room couch, and gathers her legs up to her chest. She watches as Damone struggles with his clothes.
STACY: I want you to know that it's your final decision if we should continue or not.
DAMONE: Let's continue. Stacy leans back and pulls him on top of her. He enters her and begins pumping so hard, so fast, that he doesn't notice he's banging the sofa into the wall of the changing room. But just as quickly as Damone starts, he stops.
STACY: ( whispers ) Hey, Mike?
DAMONE: What? Are you all right?
STACY: I think we're making a lot of I'm sorry. I'm really sorry. He has a strange look on his face.
DAMONE: I'm sorry. I'm really sorry. He has a strange look on his face.
STACY: What's wrong?
DAMONE: I think I came. Didn't you feel it?
STACY: I guess I did. They lay there, Damone still on top of her on the red couch.
DAMONE: I've got to get home. I've really got to go, Stacy.
DISSOLVE: INT. BIOLOGY CLASS - AFTERNOON We see Stacy sitting at her usual seat, and she's wearing a bright spring dress with a slight amount of makeup. She looks at Damone's seat with anticipation, but it remains empty as other students file in. Finally, she turns to The Rat.
STACY: Where's Mike today?
THE RAT: Today's April 16th. Damone never comes to school on April 16th.
STACY: What's April 16th?
THE RAT: It's John Bonham's birthday.
STACY: John Bonham?
THE RAT: John Bonham. The drummer for Led Zeppelin. He died a couple years ago. Every birthday he stays home and plays everything John Bonham ever recorded. It's like his own Oh. I see. The bell rings, and Mr. Vargas enters the room with his Sanka cup.
STACY: Oh. I see. The bell rings, and Mr. Vargas enters the room with his Sanka cup.
MRS. O'ROURKE: Have a seat, Brad. Brad have you got your list of college Well, to tell you the truth Mrs. O'Rourke, I've kind of been putting it off. I'm not sure what I want to do yet.
BRAD: Well, to tell you the truth Mrs. O'Rourke, I've kind of been putting it off. I'm not sure what I want to do yet.
MRS. O'ROURKE: ( by rote ) All right Brad. Let me ask you like this. If I were queen of the world, and I could make you whatever you wanted to be, what would it be?
BRAD: I don't know. Burt Reynolds. There is no humor on Mrs. O'Rourke's face.
MRS. O'ROURKE: I realize it's important to have fun in your senior year, with your friends, but there comes a time when you have to get serious about your future, think about college, and put aside all this fun. Brad looks up suddenly.
BRAD: You know what, Mrs. O'Rourke? I broke up with my girlfriend this year. I lost my job at Carl's, and two other places. I wake up at 5:30 to work at 7-11, then I go to school, then I go back to 7-11. I have to pay rent, you know. My grades haven't been that bad, and now you're telling me that the fun is over. Well, I'm still waiting for the fun to start.
MRS. O'ROURKE: Brad, I'll see you when I'm through with the rest of the seniors. If you want to visit the career office, go right ahead. I'll talk to you when you're more prepared. Brad gathers his books and opens the door to leave.
MRS. OIROURKE: An absolutely exuberant Cindy Carr pops her head in the door.
CINDY: EXT. RIDGEMONT HALLWAY - MORNING The bell has just rung, and Mike Damone comes out of Youth and Law class. He has an absorbed, driven look on his face. He walks past the rows of lockers, and doesn't even notice as he passes Stacy Hamilton standing by her locker. She smiles, grabs his arm affectionately.
DISSOLVE: EXT. RIDGEMONT HALLWAY - MORNING The bell has just rung, and Mike Damone comes out of Youth and Law class. He has an absorbed, driven look on his face. He walks past the rows of lockers, and doesn't even notice as he passes Stacy Hamilton standing by her locker. She smiles, grabs his arm affectionately.
STACY: Hi Mike! Damone turns to see her, is thoroughly unimpressed.
DAMONE: Oh. Hi.
STACY: I didn't see you this morning.
DAMONE: Look, I'm kind of in a hurry.
STACY: I'm in a hurry too. I just thought I could say hi to you.
DAMONE: He pulls away, leaving a bewildered Stacy standing by her locker. She grabs some books and hurries in the other direction.
MR. VARGAS: Today we're going to explore how this hospital works to preserve human life. We'll be visiting every floor, every level where these fine doctors and nurses take care of us, in life. and in death.
MR. VARGAS: Over thirty children are delivered here each day. The class moves on.
MR. VARGAS: This is part of your third quarter exam, and I'd advise you to take careful notes on what we're about to see.
MR. VARGAS: May I just ask you one last time to conduct yourselves with the utmost The kids are beginning to get very nervous now as they are led down the hall to the "Cold Room." The door to the "Cold Room" has only one sign on it. It reads: CADAVERS MEDICAL EXAMINATION ONLY. Mr. Vargas opens the door, and the class seems to gasp.
MR. VARGAS: As you know, all the bodies in this room are recently deceased human A student raises his hand.
MR. VARGAS: Yes, Randy?
RANDY: Who are these guys?
MR. VARGAS: Most of them were derelicts, Randy. They sold the right for medical examination of their bodies for money. Something like thirty dollars, I believe. Isn't that right, Doctor Miller?
DR. MILLER: Twenty-five dollars.
SPICOLI: Twenty-five bucks is pretty good.
MR. VARGAS: Now this gentleman here is named Arthur. Arthur died from heart failure last week and we are fortunate enough to view his body in its pristine state. Mr. Vargas suddenly pulls the white sheet aside and we see the body of Arthur. The students' eyes widen. Some gasp. Others cover their mouths. Others begin furious notes. Nobody speaks. The body of Arthur is smallish and withered. It is orange, flaky, and not quite real looking. A deep cut has been made in Arthur's chest. Mr. Vargas bends Arthur upright for a better student view. He gestures to the deep cut made in Arthur's chest. The tension mounts.
SPICOLI: ANGLE ON STACY HAMILTON who goes running out of the "Cold Room", holding her mouth. The Rat runs after her.
STACY: I made a fool of myself.
THE RAT: Nobody noticed. Don't worry about it. We'll just stay out here until everyone comes out, we'll blend back in.
STACY: What about the notes?
THE RAT: I'll get you the notes. She squeezes his arm.
MONTALBAN: You see, Tatoo, what this man doesn't realize is that he must one day leave Fantasy Island. And he must continue his life as an incurable leper. Stacy is fighting back tears. Linda looks angry. Telephone rings. Linda jumps to get it.
LINDA: Linda obviously is disappointed when she hears a female voice.
STACY: I don't know, I'm just so depressed. Everything is just so. Linda shuts off the television.
LINDA: You have been acting very strange the last few weeks.
STACY: I don't know. I just don't feel Linda sits down next to Stacy on the bed.
LINDA: What do you think it is?
STACY: What do you think it is?
LINDA: It couldn't be.
STACY: It could be. I had a pregnancy test at the clinic. I'll find out Monday. I guess it was Damone.
LINDA: Of course it was Damone. If it was Ron Johnson, you'd be out to here!
STACY: I'm not going to tell him. He's an asshole. I hate him.
LINDA: But it costs money to have an abortion. Even at the Free Clinic. You tell Damone to pay for it. It's the least he can do. It's the guy's responsibility too. She puts the TV back on and they watch.
STACY: You know, there's one thing you didn't tell me about guys.
LINDA: You didn't tell me that they can be so nice, so great. but then you sleep with them and they start acting like they're five years old.
STACY: You didn't tell me that they can be so nice, so great. but then you sleep with them and they start acting like they're five years old.
LINDA: You're right. I didn't tell you EXT. FOOTBALL FIELD - TWO DAYS LATER Stacy Hamilton is walking towards Mike Damone on the football field. We see him from a distance, timing track runners.
DAMONE: What's going on?
STACY: Mike, there's something that's been on my mind and I have to tell you about it.
DAMONE: What? Now? He clicks off the time on a runner, and then turns to face her.
STACY: Mike. I want you to know that I'm ANGLE ON STACY as she looks down. They are words she never thought she would be speaking.
DAMONE: How do you know it's mine? We only did it once.
STACY: I know it's yours.
DAMONE: You made me do it! You locked the door. You made me do it! You wanted it more than me!
STACY: Take that back.
DAMONE: All right, I take it back.
STACY: We've got to get an abortion?
DAMONE: Yeah. My brother Art got his girlfriend one once.
STACY: It's already planned, Mike. It's going to cost $150 at the Free Doesn't sound free to me. So you want me to pay for it?
DAMONE: Doesn't sound free to me. So you want me to pay for it?
STACY: Half. Okay? Seventy-five dollars. And a ride to the clinic.
DAMONE: Seventy-five dollars, and a ride. Stacy stands there, hands folded, nodding.
DISSOLVE: INT. DAMONE'S ROOM - AFTERNOON He is working at his desk, counting through a wad of money.
FEMALE VOICE: Hello. is Mike there?
STACY: Hello. is Mike there?
FEMALE VOICE: Hold on. Stacy sags, disbelieving, and looks at the clock on the kitchen wall. It's getting late.
STACY: Hi, Mrs. Barrett. Is Linda there?
STACY: Okay. Thanks. She looks at the clock again, then hears a noise in the driveway.
STACY: Yeah. This is it. I have some shopping to do.
BRAD: See you later.
STACY: Thanks a lot, Brad. I really appreciate it. She gets out of the car.
NURSE: This is going to prick a little. She sticks the needle into Stacy's hand. Stacy looks pained but doesn't yell. The Nurse pats the rolling bed.
DOCTOR: Hello, Stacy, I'm Doctor Bartell. Stacy moves onto the operating table as the Nurse and Doctor get ready.
STACY: This is going to hurt, isn't it?
DOCTOR: We'll use a local but you'll feel some pressure. It doesn't last that Does it hurt more to have a baby? The Doctor pauses and considers her question.
STACY: Does it hurt more to have a baby? The Doctor pauses and considers her question.
DOCTOR: Yes. but I think you mind it Stacy looks up at the lights and listens to the sound of suction tubes.
NURSE: How are we doing in here? Debbie, ready to leave? The girl nods and gets up.
STACY: Uh, my boyfriend said held be waiting downstairs. The Nurse studies her, decides she's telling the truth and allows her to leave.
STACY: He puts an arm around her and leads her toward his waiting car.
BRAD: Since when do you shop at the Flea Market anyway?
STACY: Brad. Please don't tell Mom and He helps her into the cruising vessel. He starts up the car and drives off.
BRAD: Who did it? Stacy stares out the window. Tears well in her You're not going to tell me, are All right, then. It's your secret. Stacy smiles at Brad. Brad smiles back. The car drives on.
STACY: All right, then. It's your secret. Stacy smiles at Brad. Brad smiles back. The car drives on.
BRAD: All right, then. It's your secret. Stacy smiles at Brad. Brad smiles back. The car drives on.
STACY: I really thought he would show up. I waited. and waited. and That little prick.
LINDA: That little prick.
STACY: Then I called his house, and his mother told me he was in the garage helping his father.
LINDA: That little prick.
STACY: I paid for it and everything.
LINDA: There goes your stereo for another year. Mike Damone is a no-brain little prick. I'm not letting him get away with this.
STACY: Don't do anything, Linda. I'd rather just forget about it. I don't even like the guy.
LINDA: Stacy, he's not a guy. He's a little prick! Stacy lies back on the bed.
DAMONE: He looks both ways, and starts back towards the EXT. DAMONE CAR Mike Damone travels down Ridgemont Drive, making the turn into the school parking lot. There is a large cardboard panel taped on the side of his car.
GIRL #1: Hi, Mike!
GIRL #2: Hi, mike! Damone backs up against the locker, with a sick smile on his face.
DAMONE: Hi. girls. More students pass, looking strangely at the young man pinned against his own locker.
THE RAT: Damone? What happened between you and Stacy? Damone feigns The Attitude, shakes his head. Damone Let me tell you something, Rat. Sometimes girls just go haywire. It was a month ago, I've been trying to think of a way to tell you ever since. We started messing around . something happened. It's all over with. It's no big deal. I never called her again. The Rat says nothing.
DAMONE: Let me tell you something, Rat. Sometimes girls just go haywire. It was a month ago, I've been trying to think of a way to tell you ever since. We started messing around . something happened. It's all over with. It's no big deal. I never called her again. The Rat says nothing.
THE RAT: No Damone. I don't understand.
DAMONE: She wasn't really your girlfriend Hey fuck you Damone. There's a lot of girls out there and you mess around with Stacy. What have you got to prove?
THE RAT: Hey fuck you Damone. There's a lot of girls out there and you mess around with Stacy. What have you got to prove?
DAMONE: Jesus. I'm sorry.
THE RAT: I always stick up for you. Whenever people say 'Aw, that Damone is a loudmouth' and they say that a lot I say 'You just don't know Damone.' When someone says you're an idiot, I tell them 'Damone's not an idiot. You just don't know him.' Well, you know, Damone, maybe they do know you pretty good. And I'm just finding out.
DAMONE: Fine. Get lost. Damone starts to push past him, but The Rat shoves his shoulder hard.
THE RAT: You come on. They stand there, gesturing, neither one of them wanting to make the first move.
DAMONE: No. You come on, you wuss. Assistant Coach Mr. Sexton comes running out of the boy's locker room, and steps in front of the two Hey! Knock this crap off!! The Rat stalks off, disappearing into the crowd of EXT. RIDGEMONT DRIVE - NIGHT The Ridgemont Drive strip is filled with cars, cruising for parties. There is a lot of honking, and yelling out windows. Everyone is headed towards the beach. We stay on a lowly 7-11 store near the freeway entrance.
SEXTON: Hey! Knock this crap off!! The Rat stalks off, disappearing into the crowd of EXT. RIDGEMONT DRIVE - NIGHT The Ridgemont Drive strip is filled with cars, cruising for parties. There is a lot of honking, and yelling out windows. Everyone is headed towards the beach. We stay on a lowly 7-11 store near the freeway entrance.
DISSOLVE: EXT. RIDGEMONT DRIVE - NIGHT The Ridgemont Drive strip is filled with cars, cruising for parties. There is a lot of honking, and yelling out windows. Everyone is headed towards the beach. We stay on a lowly 7-11 store near the freeway entrance.
SPICOLI: Hey, mon, can I use the bathroom? Brad squints his eyes, looks at the sign on the back room door.
ANGLE ON: sign which reads: Rest Room For Employees Only.
BRAD: Go ahead. Just make it quick.
SPICOLI: It's the first door on your left. Spicoli disappears into the back room. Brad sighs, looks at the clock. It reads: 11:15. Then he hears Spicoli from the back room.
BRAD: It's the first door on your left. Spicoli disappears into the back room. Brad sighs, looks at the clock. It reads: 11:15. Then he hears Spicoli from the back room.
BRAD: It's the first door on your left!
BRAD: First door on your left!
ROBBER: I want money. And I want it all Brad looks pale and young under the fluorescent 7 11 light. He speaks slowly.
BRAD: They empty and close the big safe here at midnight.
ROBBER: ( getting tougher ) I know this store. I know where the safe is. He bangs the gun on the counter, hard.
BRAD: I'm instructed to tell you that we are on a video alarm system and there are other hidden cameras in the store .
ROBBER: Just give me the money. Move it.
BRAD: ( legs are shaking ) I just started here, and they just taught me the procedure. I'll give you the money, just let me figure this out.
ROBBER: ( very menacing ) Move it. Move it. Brad opens the phony back of the donut case and fiddles with the strongbox combination.
BRAD: You motherfucker. Get off my fuckin' case. The Robber is about to react when the bathroom door opens and Jeff Spicoli starts out, wiping his hands on his pants.
SPICOLI: No towels, mon. The Robber turns to look at Spicoli, and that is all that Brad Hamilton needs. Just like it is the most natural thing in the world, Brad reaches for the hot, steaming coffee pot he has just made and throws it into the gunman's face and hands.
ROBBER: The .45 falls out of his hand and rattles to the floor. The gunman is still grabbing his face, and looking at his skinless hands in horror when Brad snaps up the gun. In the parking lot, the gunman's accomplice, poised behind the wheel of the yellow Firebird, spots the foul-up and screeches out of the parking lot.
BRAD: There goes your ride home. Brad pulls the under-counter alarm with newfound confidence. Jeff Spicoli stands there, mesmerized at the entire event.
SPICOLI: Awesome. Totally awesome.
STACY: Another summer of working at Come on. There's lots of men around here. Keep your eyes open.
LINDA: Come on. There's lots of men around here. Keep your eyes open.
STACY: You know, Linda. I've finally figured it out. It's not sex I want. Anyone can have sex.
LINDA: What do you want?
STACY: I want romance.
LINDA: Romance in Ridgemont? We don't even get cable TV.
ANGLE ON: the back kitchen door, which swings open, and out comes Mike Damone in a peppermint Swenson's shirt. He wipes some grime on his pants.
STACY: Mike! You have a mess on C-9!
DAMONE: All right. All right. I just cleaned B-8. Give me a break.
STACY: Get going. The two girls smile, go back to their posts.
SPICOLI: I. am. so. wasted, mon. What is in this shit? Doesn't that stuff cause brain Spicoli listens for a moment. He rubs his eyes, shakes his head. He is really buzzed.
CURTIS: Jeff you have company!
SPICOLI: Go away, Curtis. If you can't knock, I can't hear you. Curtis slams the door and leaves. A moment later there is a knock.
MR. HAND: That's right, Jeff. Mind if I come Spicoli can only nod.
SPICOLI: Yeah. The Graduation Dance Mr. Hand. It's the last school event of the year.
MR. HAND: I'm afraid we've got some things to discuss here, Jeff.
SPICOLI: Did I do something wrong, Mr. Hand? Hand removes several copies of Oui Magazine from another chair and sits down. He sets his briefcase on Spicoli's dresser, next to a bag of pot, and opens it up for easy access.
MR. HAND: Do you want to sit there, Jeff?
SPICOLI: I don't know. I guess so.
MR. HAND: Fine. You sit right here on your bed. I'll use the chair here. As I explained to your parents just a moment ago, and to you many times since the very beginning of the school year I don't like to spend my time waiting for late students, or detention cases. I'd rather be preparing the lesson. Mr. Hand takes a sheet from his briefcase and looks at it.
SPICOLI: Hey, it's in my locker, Mr. Hand.
MR. HAND: Well, then, I'm glad I remembered to bring an extra copy just for Hand reaches in his case and produces the book. He hands it to Spicoli.
DISSOLVE: INT. SPICOLI'S ROOM - HOURS LATER Wearily, Spicoli is trying to grasp the material.
SPICOLI: . so, like, when Jefferson went before the people what he was saying was 'Hey, we left this place in England because it was bogus, and if we don't come up with some cool rules ourself, we'll be bogus, too!' Right?
MR. HAND: Very close, Jeff. Hand reaches over and gets his case.
SPICOLI: Hey, Mr. Hand, can I ask you a What's that?
MR. HAND: What's that?
SPICOLI: Do you have a guy like me every year? A guy to. I don't know, make a show of. Teach other kids lessons and stuff?
MR. HAND: Well, you'll find out next year.
SPICOLI: ( smiling ) No way, mon. When I graduate U.S. history I ain't even coming over to your side of the building.
MR. HAND: If you graduate.
SPICOLI: ( panicked ) You're gonna flunk me?! Mr. Hand pauses a moment, then breaks into the nearest approximation of a grin we have seen all year. It isn't much, but it's noticeable. His lips crinkle at the ends.
MR. HAND: Don't worry, Spicoli. You'll probably squeak by.
SPICOLI: All right! Oh, yeah! Mr. Hand has now gathered all his material, and he stands to approach Spicoli's door. Jeff jumps up, extends his hand.
MR. HAND: Aloha, Spicoli. Mr. Hand exits the room, and descends the staircase of the Spicoli household. Spicoli kicks the door shut, grins, and continues struggling with his tie.
STACY: Where's Doug?
LINDA: He's not coming.
STACY: Not coming? What happened?
LINDA: He says he's got to stay in He says I should visit him Yeah, like maybe never.
STACY: Yeah, like maybe never.
LINDA: Yeah, like maybe never.
STACY: But what are you going to do?
LINDA: Well I might go to Dartmouth.
STACY: I didn't tell anyone I applied cause I never thought I'd make it.
LINDA: I didn't tell anyone I applied cause I never thought I'd make it.
STACY: I can't believe it! But what about There's a world of guys out there. I just wish I didn't have to date any of them.
STACY: Hey Doug Stallworth? It's his ANGLE ON MIKE DAMONE in another part of the dance, by the Junior class sponsored food counter. Damone is standing, talking to several girls, gesturing and being Damone, Mr. Sign my annual, honey. The girls look at each other, laugh. They walk ANGLE ON THE RAT standing nearby.
DAMONE: Sign my annual, honey. The girls look at each other, laugh. They walk ANGLE ON THE RAT standing nearby.
THE RAT: You're losing it, Damone.
DAMONE: You're crazy. Those girls love me.
SPICOLI: Hey, mon. Sign my annual. Spicoli slips the annual into the kid's crotch. The stoner winces in pain, but still opens the book and lingers on all the signings in Spicoli's annual. They are all drug-related messages from fellow stoners. After a moment, Spicoli's friend signs: "Thanks for the reds. Todd."
TODD: Hey, mon, good thing we're going to Mexico this summer. 'Cause you're gonna get kicked out of your house when your parents read your annual.
LISA: I saw your picture in the paper. You had the greatest look on your Front of the Metro Section. I'm telling my parents, 'I know this guy, I know this guy.' Lisa's boyfriend pulls his arm tighter around her.
ANOTHER STUDENT: Front of the Metro Section. I'm telling my parents, 'I know this guy, I know this guy.' Lisa's boyfriend pulls his arm tighter around her.
LISA: Will you sign my annual, Brad? Brad smiles, nods. He signs, and gives her his. We then see Brad's three Buddies from Carl's Jr. come up, pat him on the back and grab his shoulder. Brad studies them warily.
BUDDY #1: Fuckin' manager of 7-11!
BUDDY #2: Get us jobs over there, Brad! You can do it!
BRAD: Since when do you guys want to work at 7-11?
BUDDY #2: Come on, Brad! It would be great! All of us together!
BRAD: Well, 7-11 is a tremendous operation. It's really changed, man. They've got great food, great magazines, videogames. it's class. Total class.
BUDDY #3: As soon as you can get us in there, we're gone from Carl's, Brad.
BUDDY #2: Yeah, man, all the little punks from junior high have taken over the place. Brad leaves his old buddies. He grins and notices someone across the crowded dance floor.
BRAD: Hey, Thompson! Wendell! Get a job! They laugh, flip him off. Brad is back in his element at last. He moves into the main dancing area, works his way across the room, past the bleachers, when he hears a voice.
BRAD: ANGLE ON THE BLEACHERS where several couples are passionately making out. Four teachers clomp up into the stands from different angles. They pin the couples in flashlight beams, like the main tower pinning an escaping prisoner.
SPICOLI: Summer, mon! We're there! He turns to his stoner bud.
SURF NAZI: Are you Jeff Spicoli? Spicoli looks up and down the row of Surf Nazis. On the end, he sees L.C.
SPICOLI: Hey, mon, I don't know what your trip is, but. Spicoli dashes off down Luna Street. L.C. and the Surf Nazis take out in hot pursuit, chasing him through the parking lot, past Ridgemont High, and into the night. They will never catch him.
SLOW: INT. RIDGEMONT MALL School is out and it's summer business as usual at the Ridgemont Mall. We see the same stores, the same packs of kids roaming the three tiers.
STACY: Hey Mark! Turn around! Ratner turns around, affects total and complete cool. He waves across the mall to her.
THE RAT: You. Sit. Stacy turns to look at him, smiles. She sits.
STACY: Hi, Mark.
THE RAT: Hi, Stacy. How are you?
STACY: I'm fine. Mark, I'm so glad you came over here because I want you to know something. I just thought I would tell you that I really enjoyed getting to know you this The Rat maintains The Attitude.
THE RAT: Yeah? About fifty people I didn't know wrote that in my annual.
STACY: I know everybody says it, but I really mean it. The Rat looks at her from the corner of his eyes.
THE RAT: Yeah. I want you to have this picture, so you won't forget what I look like. And so you'll remember to call me over the summer. She withdraws a picture from her pocket, hands it to The Rat.
STACY: Yeah. I want you to have this picture, so you won't forget what I look like. And so you'll remember to call me over the summer. She withdraws a picture from her pocket, hands it to The Rat.
THE RAT: Well, I don't know, I may be doing some traveling this summer. I don't know how much I'll be around. But I'll give you a call sometime.
STACY: I'd like that. She gives him a kiss on the mouth, gets up and walks away. The Rat sits there, smiling at the way things sometimes turn out. He slips the picture into his pocket, a satisfied young man.
DAMONE: She wants it, Rat. The Rat snickers, shakes his head.
THE RAT: The Attitude, Damone, is only good until you meet the right girl.
DAMONE: Whatever you say, Rat. They take off together, blending into the crowd of kids walking the mall.
THE RAT: And. you can only tell it's the right girl if you're sensitive.
DAMONE: Sensitive what is that?
THE RAT: Sensitive is when you can tell how people feel without asking.
DAMONE: So what makes you so sensitive?
THE RAT: Well, for one, I read. I don't watch as much television as you. I'm trying to feel things more. I'm learning a lot about people.
DAMONE: What do you read? What's the last book you read?
THE RAT: Lust For Life. It's the story of Vincent Van Gough.
DAMONE: ( scoffs ) Yeah, well, I saw the movie. That must mean I'm sensitive too.
THE RAT: It's a way, Damone. It's a vibe. I put it out, and I have personally found that girls do respond. Damone laughs, shoves him hard. We lose sight of the two boys in the sea of kids.
CREDITS: FADE TO THE END Writers : Cameron Crowe
FADE TO: THE END Writers : Cameron Crowe
BLACK: THE END Writers : Cameron Crowe
THE END: Writers : Cameron Crowe
