PROFESSOR: ( deciphering ) "..when the three planets are in eclipse.." His fingers trace across the wall which is covered with symbols and strange hieroglyphs as he deciphers.
PROFESSOR: "..the black hole like a door is open. Evil comes . sowing terror and chaos." See? The snake, Billy. The Ultimate Evil . make sure you get the snake! The Professor points emphatically to the snake, the symbol of Evil, coming through the door between the three planets in eclipse. C.U. Billy's hand sketches the snake quickly. He is a natural artist.
BILLY: And when is this door opening snake act supposed to occur? The Professor's fingers touch the signs.
PROFESSOR: ..if this is the five..and this the thousand.. He calculates.
PROFESSOR: Every five thousand years..
BILLY: ( kidding ) So I have some time.. He reaches for the pad. ANGLE ON: Omar. Standing at the entrance to the chamber with the water bag, entranced by the sight. A skeletal hand falls on his shoulder. Omar turns to an ancient PRIEST in a rough milled black cannock.
PRIEST: I will take it to them my son. Startled but obedient, Omar gives the water bag to the Priest.
PRIEST: Go with God.. be safe from Evil.. The Priest makes the sign of the Cross on the boy's forehead, dismissing As soon as he is gone, the Priest turns a worried eye to the Professor. ANGLE ON: The Professor is back to translating, Billy to sketching.
PROFESSOR: "..then arrange the elements of life against the Terror just so.." His fingers run on.
PROFESSOR: elements around the fifth.." His fingers fall on the one element that has a human shape, surrounded by all the others. The Priest opens the water skin and begins to pour a vial of powder into the skin. ANGLE ON: Aziz falling asleep. The mirror falls, the light fails.
PROFESSOR: Aziz! Light! The boy struggles to stay awake. The mirror comes up.
PRIEST: Lord forgive me.. they already know too, "..in which all the history of the Universe resides ..all the strength..all the hope..Protect us from The Professor turns to the Priest who is pouring water into a tin cup from the skin.
PROFESSOR: "..in which all the history of the Universe resides ..all the strength..all the hope..Protect us from The Professor turns to the Priest who is pouring water into a tin cup from the skin.
PROFESSOR: Father.. it in the most extraordinary thing.. the greatest find in history..can you imagine the implications.
PRIEST: Only too well. here you must be He hands the cup to the Professor. The Professor takes it, has it almost to his lips when..
PROFESSOR: I mean look.. it is like a battle plan.. In his excitement he does not drink, much to the Priest's chagrin.
PROFESSOR: Here the Good.. Here the Evil.. As the Priest looks up, Aziz the mirror boy, tips his mouth under the water skin, drinking the leakage.
PROFESSOR: He points to the Five Elements.
PROFESSOR: A weapon against evil. Amazing! I am going to be famous.
PRIEST: Then let us toast to your fame! Here Billy.. The Priest hands Billy a cup.
PRIEST: To fame.. salud.. The Professor raises the cup to drink, and then.
PROFESSOR: To fame.. salud.. The Professor raises the cup to drink, and then.
PROFESSOR: We cannot toast with water.. Billy ! In my sack.. the Grappa! The Priest watches, disconsolate, as the Professor tosses away his water. Billy finishes his cup before running off into the tunnel.
PROFESSOR: "..this perfect person.. this perfect being.." I do not understand this.. perfect?
PROFESSOR: Where is that boy? Billy!
PROFESSOR: And this divine Light they talk about.. what is Divine light? At that moment, the reflection from Aziz's mirror drops again. The light Aziz light! The room is flooded with light all of the sudden.
PROFESSOR: ( without turning ) Aziz light! The room is flooded with light all of the sudden.
PROFESSOR: Better.. this is the most unbelievable thing I have ever seen.. The Professor turns around, and is stunned speechless to find himself face to face with two MONDOSHAWANS. A dozen others fill the hall manning the source of the light, large luminous globes. Aziz is fast asleep.
PROFESSOR: ( uncomprehending ) .Uh, yes? The Professor is lifted up and carried off to the side by the aliens. The KOMMANDER stops in front of the Priest who is still on his knees, face to the ground.
PRIEST: Master. He was about to discover everything, but I had the situation under control. The two MONDOSHAWAN GUARDS hold the professor three feet off the ground.
PROFESSOR: ( in a panic ) Who are you? Are you Germans? Sprechen Sie Deutsch?
PRIEST: What did I do wrong? The Priest jumps to his feet excitedly.
KOMMANDER: Servant, you and the thousand guards before you. You have done your work well, but we have to recover the elements. War will soon engulf your planet. We must keep them safe. The Kommander goes over to the wall and seems to be looking for a lock. He finds it and slides in his metallic finger which is more intricate than a key to a safe. He turns his hand, activating a mechanism that opens the wall.
PROFESSOR: The Kommander turns around and crooks a finger. One of the MONDOSHAWANS waves his hand, puts the professor to sleep and heads down the hallway revealed by the opening. He is followed by his men. The Priest slips in behind them.
PRIEST: ( to himself ) The Fifth Element.
KOMMANDER: Take them and put them in a safe place. His men carry out his order.
PRIEST: ( moved ) Will the elements be gone now forever from this place?
KOMMANDER: When mankind comes to its senses. We will return.
PRIEST: Knowing mankind as I do, that could take Time is of no importance, only life is important. The Priest nods and lowers his eyes. Angle on: Billy staggering forward, raising his pistol, blinking his eyes to focus.. A MONDOSHAWAN puts the fourth element in the case The Kommander shuts the case and looks at the Priest.
KOMMANDER: Time is of no importance, only life is important. The Priest nods and lowers his eyes. Angle on: Billy staggering forward, raising his pistol, blinking his eyes to focus.. A MONDOSHAWAN puts the fourth element in the case The Kommander shuts the case and looks at the Priest.
KOMMANDER: When EVIL returns so shall we.
PRIEST: ( head lowered ) We will be ready, Lord. Billy suddenly staggers into the room, brandishing his gun.
BILLY: Billy trips, the gun goes off. He empties the clip. The Mondoshawan carrying the case crumples to the ground. The wall immediately begins to close. Billy fires wildly, unable to control the powerful kicking gun.
PRIEST: No!!! Don't!!! The Priest rushes Billy. The weapon has such a kick to it that Billy starts shooting into the air, backs up, then stumbles and knocks himself out. The Priest is on the ground, seriously wounded. So is the Kommander. The WARRIORS are in a panic.
CLERK: Hurry, Kommander! The wall's closing!!! The wall continues to close. Sand pours in from everywhere. The vast room fills up like an hourglass.
KOMMANDER: A mission is a mission, Savoia. You'll learn that. The Kommander picks up the case and reaches the wall but can't get through it. His armor is too bulky, the opening too small. He manages to get his arm and the case through.
KOMMANDER: My apologies to General Kroi and my wife.. The wall closes, crushing his arm. The CLERK scoops up the case and runs through the huge piles of sand.
STAEDERT: Don't you have anything? Not even a temperature?
CAPTAIN: The thermo-analyzers have jammed. One of them reads over a million degrees, the other's at minus 5000. Never seen anything like it.
TECHNICIAN: It's taking shape.
CAPTAIN: ( in awe ) What the hell can it be?
TECHNICIAN: Hook-up with the president in one minute, General. General Staedert remains calm.
STAEDERT: .Send out a probe.
AIDE: On air in 30 seconds. In the middle of the group is a Priest whose appearance reminds us of Egypt. A younger man DAVID, 18, shy, a priest-in-training attends the old 23 INT. CONTROL ROOM / PRESIDENT'S OFFICE President on line sir.. General Staedert leans over his screen and seems surprised to see the room but not the president.
CAPTAIN: President on line sir.. General Staedert leans over his screen and seems surprised to see the room but not the president.
STAEDERT: I can hear you, Mr. President, but I can't see you . The President grabs the mini-camera on his desk and yanks it around to face him. His face fills the screen.
PRESIDENT: ( exasperated ) Is that better?
STAEDERT: Perfect, Mr. President.
PRESIDENT: I have to address the Supreme Council in 10 minutes. Just the facts, General.
STAEDERT: There are no results from the chemical and molecular analysis as of yet, all the calibers are overshot..we're hoping a thermo nucleatic imaging..
PRESIDENT: ( exasperated ) What you are saying is you don't know what this..thing..is. Consternation reigns in the President's office.
STAEDERT: Not yet Sir..The only thing we know is it just keeps getting bigger!
PRESIDENT: Wait or act.
STAEDERT: Wait or act.
PRESIDENT: My philosophy Mr. President is shoot first ask questions later. I don't like uninvited guests.
STAEDERT: My philosophy Mr. President is shoot first ask questions later. I don't like uninvited guests.
PRESIDENT: HEAD CHEMISTS I think it would be foolish to shoot at an organism that seems alive, without first taking the time to study it more! Besides, it has shown no signs of hostility.
HEAD CHEMISTS: I think it would be foolish to shoot at an organism that seems alive, without first taking the time to study it more! Besides, it has shown no signs of hostility.
PRESIDENT: ( worried ) No. it's just getting bigger.
HEAD CHEMISTS: So do people, but that's no reason to shoot The security of the Federated Territories is and remains number one priority. I suppose General Staedert's "philosophy" is acceptable to you? All the Generals nod "yes"
PRESIDENT: ( exasperated ) The security of the Federated Territories is and remains number one priority. ( to the military ) I suppose General Staedert's "philosophy" is acceptable to you? All the Generals nod "yes"
PRESIDENT: All right, then! Staedert?
PRESIDENT: The camera moves up the Priest and we finally discover his face. He is in his sixties, a shrewd look in his eyes. Around his neck hangs the Kommander's finger, the key to the temple.
PRIEST: Cornelius, Vito Cornelius. 50th level parish. I have a different theory to offer you, Mr. President.
PRESIDENT: I'm listening.
CORNELIUS: Imagine for a moment that this. thing is not anything that can be identified because it prefers not to be, because it is the antithesis of all we are. Because it is evil.. TOTAL EVIL.
PRESIDENT: ( a little sarcastically ) One more reason to shoot first eh? All the Generals nod in agreement.
CORNELIUS: Evil begets evil, Mr. President. Shooting would only make it stronger.
TECHNICIAN: The probe will attain its objective in five seconds. Staedert moves closer to the ship's window.
STAEDERT: Mr. President, we're at crisis point. The President looks puzzled.
PRESIDENT: Your theory is interesting Father but I don't think we have time to go into it right now!
CORNELIUS: Time is of no importance, Mr. President. Only life is important.
PRESIDENT: ( exasperated ) That's exactly what we are going to try and do: Protect the lives of some 200 billion of our fellow citizens! General? You may fire when ready.
STAEDERT: ( cold ) ( to the CAPTAIN ) ..Up front loading of a 120 ZZR missile. Marker lights on the objective.
SCIENTIST: ( consulting new data ) Its structure has just solidified on the surface, as if the object felt something. If that's the case, we are undoubtedly dealing with an intelligence.
CORNELIUS: The most terrible intelligence imaginable, Mr. President. The President hesitates.
CAPTAIN: .The ship is in combat formation. The missile is loaded, General.
PRESIDENT: ( uneasy ) Staedert? Give me a minute. I have a doubt.
STAEDERT: ( cold ) I don't, Mr. President.
STAEDERT: Load a series of 740 missiles. Maximum shield protection.
CAPTAIN: Yes, Sir. The President is growing ever more worried.
PRESIDENT: Staedert? What's going on? Did you destroy it?
STAEDERT: I'm about to, Mr. President.
SCIENTIST: The planet's diameter has greatly increased and it's moving toward the ship.
PRESIDENT: Staedert? Get out of there immediately! I don't want an incident, do you hear me, .What do we have that's bigger than 240?
STAEDERT: ( worried ) .What do we have that's bigger than 240?
CAPTAIN: Nothing, General.
PRESIDENT: Staedert, get out of there! That's an order! A bead of sweat pearls Staedert's forehead. He is about to give an order when a gigantic flame emerges from the planet and literally swallows Staedert's spaceship.
STAEDERT: ( eyes wide ) . Good God! The flame fills the screen with a horrendous NOISE that..
KORBEN: ( to the cat ) I'm coming. He grabs the phone and crosses his tiny apartment ( 27 feet long by 6 feet wide ) heading for the door, patting himself for a light. Behind him, the bed makes itself automatically.
KORBEN: ( on the phone ) Hey bud! Finger here. He opens the door for the cat and starts to rummage through a drawer for a match. Out come a handful of war decorations, a hero's collection.
KORBEN: ( to the cat ) Hi sweetie! .A Medal of Honor Certificate to Major Dallas
KORBEN: I was talking to the cat.
KORBEN: At least, the cat comes back.
KORBEN: I don't want a million - I just want one. A perfect one.
KORBEN: I just found a picture of you.
KORBEN: Like shit. Korben finds a box of matches with three matches. He strikes one. It does not light. Korben opens the fridge, bare, except for an empty can of GEMINI croquettes. On the packet is an ad:
KORBEN: ( sighs ) I don't need one.
KORBEN: Finger! I'm driving a cab now, not a space fighter!!
KORBEN: ( lying ) Uh. at least fifty.
KORBEN: 34 INT. HALL - DAY - OMIT 35 INT. GARAGE - DAY - OMIT 36 INT. PRESIDENT'S OFFICE manuscript, Billy's drawings, sits in front of the President. Cornelius turns page after page, illustrating his
CORNELIUS: ( to the President ) We have forty-eight hours, the time it needs to adapt itself to our living conditions.
PRESIDENT: ( worried ) And then?
CORNELIUS: And then it will be too late. The goal of evil is to wipe out life! All forms of life. For all eternity.Life upsets it. The President appears upset himself by this image.
PRESIDENT: Is there anything that can stop it?
CORNELIUS: ( knowing ) Yes..thank God..
CORNELIUS: ( to the President ) The Mondoshawans don't belong to the Federated Territories, but they are peaceful. in their possession are the four elements of life. These elements when they are gathered around a fifth: The Supreme Being, ultimate warrior, created to protect The SUPREME BEING is standing, as if frozen in armor. All we see is the bottom half of his body. Big metallic gloves hold the case engraved with the emblem of the three suns containing the four Sacred Stones.
CORNELIUS: ..will produce what the ancients called the light of creation, the light of total goodness which is the only thing that can defeat EVIL. The President points to the spot occupied by the 5th element.
PRESIDENT: But what happens if instead of this. Ultimate Warrior. it is EVIL who stands here?
CORNELIUS: White turns to black. Light to Dark. Life to Death. For all eternity. The President's nerves quiver.
CAPTAIN: Sir, we have a Mondoshawan spaceship at the frontier requesting permission to enter
PRESIDENT: I guess I should make a decision..
CORNELIUS: They are the only ones who can help..
GENERAL: Sir..the Mondoshawan do not belong to the federation. We do not know their intention.. I must recommend a full trinuclear assault..
PRESIDENT: ( yells ) Did you see that..thing..swallow our battleship like a gum drop? You can't even tell me what it is! I ask you for options you give me bullshit. Give them permission to enter our territories with my warmest regards.
CORNELIUS: ( relieved ) Thank you, Mr. President.
FIRST OFFICER: Two non-identified ships approaching.
CAPTAIN: Must be the welcoming committee.
CAPTAIN: We've been hit! General alert!!! Blast after blast hits the defenseless ship.
CAPTAIN: We're losing control! We have to land fast! The huge ship veers oft course and heads for a small red planet, taking hit after hit.
CAPTAIN: Send out a distress signal!!! Activate the emergency landing procedure! The huge ship approaches the planet at blinding speed.
FIRST OFFICER: Impact in less than ten seconds! The red planet looms ever closer.
CAPTAIN: Time is of no importance. The ship crashes in a gigantic explosion.
KORBEN: Don't watch it all day, it'll rot your mind. Bye sweetie.. In response, the cat meows. Korben opens the door to..A huge gun, brandished by a nervous MUGGER, pointing right in his face.
MUGGER: The cash man!
KORBEN: Been here long?
MUGGER: Don't fuck with me man or I'll blow you into tomorrow! Unperterbed, Korben looks at the mugger's fearsome weapon.
KORBEN: Isn't that a Z140? Alleviated titanium. Neuro charged assault model?
MUGGER: ( off balance ) You know you could hurt someone with this puppy..good thing it's not loaded.. The mugger is lost. He looks at his weapon.
KORBEN: You know you could hurt someone with this puppy..good thing it's not loaded.. The mugger is lost. He looks at his weapon.
MUGGER: It's not?
KORBEN: You gotta push the little yellow button. Korben points to the button on the side of the gun. The mugger takes his You're welcome.. And with lightning speed, Korben blasts the mugger with a straight right hand, sending him down for the count. Korben retrieves the gun.
MUGGER: You're welcome.. And with lightning speed, Korben blasts the mugger with a straight right hand, sending him down for the count. Korben retrieves the gun.
KORBEN: You're welcome.. And with lightning speed, Korben blasts the mugger with a straight right hand, sending him down for the count. Korben retrieves the gun.
KORBEN: ..you know these things are VERY illegal.. you could get in a shit load of trouble.. I better hang onto it for you.. As the mugger clears his head, Korben opens a drawer next to him which is full of similar guns! The mugger's eyes pop out of his head. He scampers to his feet and runs off. Korben shrugs, exits his apartment, and closes the door. The cat watches a nuclear holocaust on T.V., uninterrupted.
VOICE: Please enter your license.. Korben complies, and starts to push a series of buttons on the dash.
VOICE: Welcome on board Mr. Dallas..
KORBEN: How you doing this morning? Sleep OK? I didn't. Korben hits a button. The garage door starts to open.
VOICE: Fuel level 6.03..Propulsion 2x4.
KORBEN: I had the worst goddamn nightmare.
VOICE: You have nine points left on your license..
KORBEN: Thanks for reminding me.. As the garage door lifts, the Megalopolis that is New York City in the 23rd century comes into view. Startling in it's height, and breath.
VOICE: Have a nice day.. Korben lets the propulsion build.
KORBEN: He lets the gear slip. The taxi rockets off into the City.
CORNELIUS: We are lost!
GENERAL MUNRO: Mr. President, the attack was launched by two unregistered warships.
PRESIDENT: Close all borders and declare a state of general alert.
GENERAL MUNRO: Yes, sir.
PRESIDENT: ( to another OFFICER ) Try to contact these Mondoshawans. We owe them an explanation.
CORNELIUS: ( lost, to himself ) What are we going to do?
PRESIDENT: This is government business now. You ought to go home and get some rest, Father. The President motions to his guards to come and get Cornelius.
PRESIDENT: I promise to keep you informed. A weary Cornelius leaves the room with David's help.
PRESIDENT: ( to the CAPTAIN ) .Has the rescue team found any survivors?
MUNRO: This is all that survived?
MACTILBURGH: Actually only one cell survived..
MUNRO: Have you identified it?
MACTILBURGH: It's not that easy..we've never encountered anything like it before..you see normal human beings have 40 DNA memo groums..which is more than enough for any species to perpetuate itself..This one has 200,000.
MUNRO: Talk English Doc.
MACTILBURGH: This cell is like a huge library. It has infinite genetic knowledge stored inside. Almost like it was.engineered.
MUNRO: Sounds like a freak of nature to me.
MACTILBURGH: Yes. I can't wait to meet him. They pass into the lab.
MACTILBURGH: ( rather fascinated ) The compositional elements of his DNA chain are the same as ours, there are simply more of them tightly packed. His knowledge is probably limitless..
MUNRO: ( worried ) Is there any danger? Some kind of virus?
MACTILBURGH: We put it through the cellular hygiene detector. The cell is for lack of a better word. perfect. Munro hesitates a moment. Then he sighs and uses his personal key to open the self-destruct box.
MUNRO: OK, go ahead! But Mr. Perfect better be polite. otherwise I turn him into cat food. Mactilburgh starts the operation rolling as Munro puts his hand on the sell-destruct button, ready to use it. Thousands of cells form in the heart of the generator, an assemblage of DNA elements. Then the cells move down a tube, like a fluid, and gather in an imprint of a HUMAN body. Step by step bones are reconstructed, then the nervous and muscular systems. Whole veins wrap around the muscles. An entire body is reconstructing before our very eyes.
DOCTOR: Three seconds to ultra-violet protection. A shield comes over the reconstructing body and makes it invisible.
MACTILBURGH: ( to Munro ) .This is the crucial phase, The reconstruction of pigment. Cells are bombarded with slightly greasy solar atoms which forces the body cells to react, to protect themselves. That means growing skin. Clever, eh?
MUNRO: ( disgusted ) The meter slows, drops to zero.
ASSISTANT: . End of reconstruction, beginning of reanimation . A whoosh of air in the glass chamber. Captain Munro has his hand on the self-destruct button, ready to destroy the being that has barely been Activate life support system. An electrical discharge fills the glass chamber causing the body inside to jerk. After a few moments of silence, the SOUND of a heartbeat fills the room over the loudspeaker.
MACTILBURGH: ( pushing a button ) Activate life support system. An electrical discharge fills the glass chamber causing the body inside to jerk. After a few moments of silence, the SOUND of a heartbeat fills the room over the loudspeaker.
ASSISTANT: Life support system activated. The Supreme Being is alive once again.
MACTILBURGH: Remove the shield. The ASSISTANT automatically removes the ultra-violet shield which slowly reveals. a woman. nude. young. and very beautiful. Munro stands there gaping. Not quite his vision of the Supreme Being. Mactilburgh glances at Munro and gently pushes his hand away from the self-destruct button.
MACTILBURGH: ( with a smile ) I told you . perfect! Munro is hypnotized by the GIRL's beauty.
MUNRO: .I'd, uh , like to get a few pictures for the before she wakes up. Mactilburgh looks at him with a grin. A remote-control camera approaches the girl's face, a flash goes off. Blinded by the flash, the girl jumps and screams. She cowers in a corner, shaking from the cold, darting eyes everywhere looking for the case she was holding.
GIRL: ( very angry ) Ouacra cocha o dayodomo binay ouacra mo cocha ferji akba ligounai makta keratapla. Tokemata tokemata! Seno santonoi-aypa! Minoi ay Cheba! Givomana seno!
MUNRO: ( worried ) What's she saying?
MACTILBURGH: ( to his ASSISTANT ) Activate the phonic detector. The girl kicks the window repeatedly.
MACTILBURGH: And give her a light sedative. and something to wear! The ASSISTANT hits a button. A pile of clothes drops out of a trapdoor in the ceiling. She snatches up the clothes angrily and dresses quickly. Munro draws closer to the glass window. He watches her dress with undisguised pleasure.
MUNRO: ( to Mactilburgh ) This thing solid?
MACTILBURGH: ( smiling ) An elephant couldn't crack it. The Girl finishes dressing.
GIRL: ( angrily ) Teno akta chataman assin-omekta! Munro smiles safely behind his plate glass window.
MUNRO: ( with a smile ) You're gonna have to learn to communicate better than that angel if you want out. Munro dangles the key on a chain that will let her out. The girl rams her fist right through the window. She grabs the key and yanks it. The chain snaps tight and Munro slams into the window knocking himself out. The girl puts her hand through the window again, unlocks the chamber and steps out. She is still bit wobbly on her legs. Two GUARDS try to grab her. She sends them flying across the room. Mactilburgh is most impressed. He sets off a general alarm.
CHIEF: Get me a chair or a stepladder The rest of you go through the main ventilation!
CHIEF: ( to his men ) Go on follow her! The COPS stare into the gaping void.
COP: .No way. The CHIEF angrily pulls out his gun and shoots at the girl who ducks around the corner of the building. Unfortunately the other side in full of cops as well. A flying police car zooms up in front of her, sirens This in the police. Your status is illegal. Please put up your hands and follow our The girl feels trapped. She looks down into the endless 450 below and all the cars flying underneath her. Then she raises her arms. and dives 57 INT. POLICE CAR - NIGHT Christ! She dove off! In a panic, the COP makes a wrong turn. The girl falls for several She lands on the roof of a flying cab.
COP: ( in the car. ) Christ! She dove off! In a panic, the COP makes a wrong turn. The girl falls for several She lands on the roof of a flying cab.
GIRL: Akina delutan, nou-shan.
KORBEN: ( lost ) .'Scuse me? A police car with wailing sirens halts in front of Korben.
COP: ( over a loudspeaker ) You have an unauthorized passenger in your vehicle. We are going to arrest her. Please leave your hands on the wheel. Thank you for your cooperation.
KORBEN: ( obeying ) Sorry, Hon, but I only got one point left on my license and I gotta get to the garage! The police car presses up against the cab. Doors slide open. Huge guns point at her. Korben feels lousy. The girl's helpless, there are tears in her eyes, she looks exhausted. Korben glances at her in the rear view mirror. She's looking all around to find something to help her communicate with him. Her POV: an ad on the back of the seat. An 800 number to help an orphanage. A teary photo of a kid over the words Please Help. She shoots to Korben a look of pure distress.
GIRL: ( irresistible ) Please. HELP. Korben can't resist her plea.
KORBEN: Don't put me in this position. I can't. I'm late as it is. But he cannot say no to her eyes.
KORBEN: Finger's gonna kill me. Korben shuts oft the meter and floors it, sideswiping the police car as he roars away.
KORBEN: I hate when people cry. I got no defense. The police car takes out after him, sirens screeching. An insane chase 59 INT. NEW YORK STREETS - DAY Korben and his flying taxi are absolute masters of the air. The cops have trouble following him but then another cop car comes to join in the fun. Korben drives like a man possessed, nothing can stop him. Except the dead-end he's just come up against.
GIRL: Daya deo dono Dato. Dalutan!
KORBEN: It there's one thing I don't need advice on, it's how to drive. Korben turns his cab sideways and scrapes through a narrow passageway, ripping his taxi light from the roof. The police car smashes into the wall. The other one brakes just in time.
COP: Shit! Attention all-patrol cars! The car makes a U-turn, looking for a wider passageway.
KORBEN: We'll wait till things quiet down a bit. You mind? The girl grabs his shirt collar and pulls him close, whispers in his ear.
GIRL: ( weak ) You're not that bad. Come on we'll get you to a doctor. The girl hands him the handle of the case, struck with the three Egyptian ( weak ) Vito. Cor. Ni-lious. Priest.
KORBEN: You're not that bad. Come on we'll get you to a doctor. The girl hands him the handle of the case, struck with the three Egyptian Vito. Cor. Ni-lious. Priest.
GIRL: ( weak ) Vito. Cor. Ni-lious. Priest.
KORBEN: Vito Cornelius? The girl nods, then faints. Korben is somewhat lost faced with so much 61 INT. CORNELIUS' APARTMENT - DAY The door opens. Korben is there with the unconscious girl in his arms.
KORBEN: ( embarrassed ) Excuse me, I'm looking for a priest.
CORNELIUS: ( tired ) Weddings are one floor down. Cornelius closes the door. The doorbell RINGS again.
KORBEN: She's not my bride, she's my fare. She's looking for this Vito Cornelius. According to the phone guide he lives here.
CORNELIUS: ( curious ) That's me. But I don't know who she is. where did you find her?
KORBEN: She dropped in on me. holding this. Korben hands him the metal handle with the three Egyptian suns, stamped on it.
CORNELIUS: ( staggered ) The fifth element. He faints dead away. Korben, with the girl still in his arms looks around helpless.
KORBEN: ( sighing ) Finger's gonna kill me.
CORNELIUS: ( with a start ) Who are you?
KORBEN: I brought the girl remember?
CORNELIUS: The girl? Cornalius gets up. He looks at the handle.
KORBEN: Yeah! She dropped in on me. I mean on my taxi. talking. this. this bizarre And then it dawns on Cornelius who the girl is.
CORNELIUS: ( eyes riveted on her ) He's a she!
KORBEN: ( bemused ) You noticed.
CORNELIUS: ( face shining ) There's not a moment to lose! Wake her up, but be gentle about it! This woman is mankind's most precious possession! She is. perfect!
KORBEN: So you do know her.
CORNELIUS: Uh yes, we're cousins..distant cousins.. Cornelius runs into the next room. Korben looks at the girl, goes to slap her, then changes his mind. Her beauty troubles him. He hesitates, then, gently caresses her cheek. Her skin seems so soft, so fragile.
KORBEN: 63 INT. SMALL ROOM
CORNELIUS: It's a miracle!!!
DAVID: ( worried ) What is?
CORNELIUS: ( babbling crazily ) I can't wear these clothes! This calls for dignity! I have to dress the part! He opens a closet filled with identical robes and plunges in, disappearing as David looks on, uncomprehending.
GIRL: ( angry ) Eto Akta Gamat!
KORBEN: ( embarrassed ) I'm sorry, it's just that. I was told to wake you up gently, so I figured. The girl pauses a moment. She stares at him, looks puzzled.
KORBEN: You're right, I was wrong! I shouldn't have kissed you. especially since we haven't been introduced and. Here, it's a bit late, but. my name is Korben, Korben Dallas. Keep it, you never know, maybe. you'll need a cab one day. I'll be happy to open the door this time!. The girl hesitates, then snatches the card like a wild animal.
DAVID: Father, will you please explain what's going on?
CORNELIUS: The Supreme Being, the fifth element is here, in our parish!!! It's a miracle!!!
KORBEN: .What's your name?
GIRL: ( after a moment ) Leeloo Minai Lekarariba-Laminai-Tchai Ekbat De Sebat.
KORBEN: ( polite ) Hey, that's. cute. Do you have a nickname, something a little. shorter?
GIRL: Korben is falling in love.
KORBEN: That's. really cute. Cornelius bursts into the room. She turns the gun on him. He bows before her.
CORNELIUS: Appipulai Leeloo Minai..
LEELOO: ( bowing ) At your service. LEELOO lowers her guard starts to laugh. An irresistible childish laugh. Korben smiles.
CORNELIUS: ( bowing ) At your service. LEELOO lowers her guard starts to laugh. An irresistible childish laugh. Korben smiles.
DAVID: Father. You sure she's the Supreme Being?
CORNELIUS: Absolutely sure There's the triple suns on her gloves! David bows low, but his eyes glance up at Leeloo. Cornelius begins to lead Korben toward the door, hustling him out.
KORBEN: They all like this in your family, father?
CORNELIUS: She's an exception..
CORNELIUS: Thank you so much for your help Mr.?
KORBEN: Dallas. Korben Dallas. Cornelius takes his arm. Leeloo stops laughing when she sees Korben Yes. That's fine! Thank you very much. A thousand times over!
CORNELIUS: Yes. That's fine! Thank you very much. A thousand times over!
KORBEN: I might call to check up on her, you know. to see if she's better?
CORNELIUS: She's fine, really..don't you worry.. just needs some rest..she's had a very long trip.
KORBEN: I know. I was there when she arrived. Cornelius is about to close the door. Korben's hand blocks it.
KORBEN: Excuse me! Just one thing! She said something to me a while ago and. I don't really get it. Akta Gamat?
CORNELIUS: It means, "Never without my permission".
KORBEN: That's what I thought. Cornelius slams the door in his face.
KORBEN: 66A INT. KORBEN'S APARTMENT - DAY
KORBEN: Fuck you!
NEIGHBOR: Fuck you!
KORBEN: .Thanks. You, too. Korben enters his-apartment.
KORBEN: Oh god. I forgot your food . I'm really sorry! How about a nice Thai nosh to apologize? How does that sound, huh? The cat meows, appeased, just an the phone rings.
KORBEN: FINGER ( V.O. ) Hey bud.I'm waiting all day here.
KORBEN: Finger..man..I'm sorry..listen..I was on the way over but I had a fare fall into my lap.. y'know one of those big fares you just can't resist..
KORBEN: 5'7", green eyes. long legs. great skin. Korben takes out a cigarette.
KORBEN: ( dreamy ) 67 INT. GARAGE - DAY - OMIT 68 INT. CORNELIUS' APARTMENT - DAY Leeloo has a towel wrapped around her, it looks like she just took a shower. She sits in front of a computer wolfing down some chicken. Data scrolls by on the screen. David watches from the corner, in awe.
DAVID: What's she doing?
CORNELIUS: Learning our history! The last 5000 years that she missed! She's been out of circulation a while, you know. Leeloo breaks into her childish laughter.
CORNELIUS: What're you laughing about?
LEELOO: ( pronouncing badly ) Napoleon. small. She laughs again and tosses some capsules into the microwave.
DAVID: ( hesitant ) Uh father, I know she's been through a lot. but the sacred stones..we don't have much Yes. Of course.. Leeloo takes her plate out of the microwave. A steaming plate heaped with chicken and exotic vegetables.
CORNELIUS: Yes. Of course.. Leeloo takes her plate out of the microwave. A steaming plate heaped with chicken and exotic vegetables.
CORNELIUS: Leeloo..I'm sorry to interrupt you but.. She sits back down in front of the screen and chomps away heavily on her second chicken. Cornelius sits opposite her. and holds up the case The case..with the stones. Where is it?
CORNELIUS: ( serious ) The case..with the stones. Where is it?
LEELOO: San Agamat chay bet. envolet!
CORNELIUS: The case was stolen? Leeloo nods her head, quite unperturbed and continues to devour the food in front of her.
CORNELIUS: ( shocked ) Who in gods name would do such a thing?
RIGHT ARM: Excuse me sir, the council is worried about the economy heating up. They wondered if it would be possible to fire 500. They reach a door at the end of the corridor. Zorg enters a code.
ZORG: Fire 1000.
RIGHT ARM: But. 500 is all they need, sir. ZORG turns slowly. A small scar across run across his face, his eye This is not a man to cross, or contradict.
RIGHT ARM: 1000! Fine, sir! Sorry to have disturbed you. The door opens.
CORNELIUS: There was this guy with a limp who came a month ago..said he was an art dealer . Asking all these questions about the Sacred Stones..at the time I didn't think anything of it.. What was his name? I'm so bad with names.
DAVID: ( to Leeloo, timid ) I didn't know your size. Leeloo is happy. She pulls off the towel and stands there nude. Cornelius and David turn away.
DAVID: They really made her.
CORNELIUS: Leeloo finishes dressing. She is delighted.
LEELOO: ( to David ) Domo danko! David smiles, dumb with admiration. Cornelius comes over.
CORNELIUS: Leeloo? The Stones. We must get them back. Leeloo settles down, sits at the computer and turns it on.
LEELOO: Ikset-kiba. Me imanetaba oum dalat!
CORNELIUS: You know exactly where they are!
ZORG: ( pretending to be worried ) Aknot? Is that you? The LEADER nods. A disgusted look stamps Zorg's features.
ZORG: .What an ugly face! Doesn't suit you at all! Take it off. AKNOT's face burns away revealing the head of a monstrous MANGALORE.
ZORG: That's better! Never be ashamed of who you are. You're warriors. be proud. AKNOT says nothing, but if his eyes could talk!
ZORG: So what if the Federal Army crushed your entire race and scattered your people to the Your time for revenge is at hand. Voila. the ZF1. He takes out a weapon from one a crate and goes into a sales pitch.
ZORG: ( very fast ) .It's light. the handle's adjustable for easy carrying. good for righties and lefties. Meanwhile, two MEN set up a mannequin rigged with various defense mechanisms at the far end of the warehouse.
ZORG: . Breaks down into four parts, undetectable by X-rays.. It's the ideal weapon for quick, discreet interventions. A word on fire power: Titanium recharger. 3000 round clip with bursts of 3 to 300. With the replay button, another Zorg innovation, it's even easier. one shot. He fires at the mannequin.
ZORG: . and replay sends every following shot to the same location. Zorg spins around, the rounds all hit the mannequin.
ZORG: ( even faster ) I recharge, but the enemy has launched a cowardly sneak attack from behind, the automirror takes care of that. Gives me the time to turn around and finish the job. 300 round bursts, then there are the Zorg oldies. He fires off each item he names.
ZORG: .Rocket launcher. The always efficient flame thrower. My favorite. Our famous net launcher, the arrow launcher, with exploding or poisonous gas heads - very And for the grand finale, the all-new ice-cube The mannequin has been blasted into a pile of ashes covered by a net,. stuck with arrows, the whole mess frozen solid. He tosses the weapon into AKNOT's hands.
ZORG: .Four full crates, delivered right on time! What about you, my dear Aknot, did you bring me what I asked you for? AKNOT sets the case on a crate. Zorg gloats while stroking the case.
ZORG: Zorg smiles, takes a deep breath, opens the case. It's empty
CORNELIUS: ( astonished ) What do you mean empty?
ZORG: Alright..I've got an open mind here.. anyone care to explain?
CORNELIUS: ( translating ) She says that the Guardians never really had much faith in humans. They were afraid of being attacked. The stones were given to someone they could trust who took another route. She's supposed to contact this person in a little less than twelve hours from now in a hotel. She's looking for the address! A map of the stars flashes onto the screen, Leeloo points.
LEELOO: The little group comes over to look.
DAVID: Planet Fhloston, in the Angel constellation Cornelius plops down into his armchair.
CORNELIUS: .We're saved!
ZORG: I'm fucked! Zorg calmly closes the case and gives Aknot a blood-chilling stare.
AKNOT: You asked for a case. We brought you a case.
ZORG: ( shouting ) A case with four stones in it. Not one! Not two or three! But four!!! Four stones!!! What the fuck am I supposed to do with an EMPTY case?!! AKNOT's men grow edgy.
AKNOT: ( tense ) .We are warriors, not merchants!
ZORG: ( humored ) But you can still count. Look. my fingers. He holds up four fingers.
ZORG: .Four stones, four crates. Zero stones.
ZERO CRATES!!!: ( to his men ) Put everything back, we're outta here. AKNOT's warriors turn their weapons on Zorg.
AKNOT: ( icily ) We risked our lives. I believe a little compensation is in order.
ZORG: ( smiling ) So, you are a merchant, after all. ( to his men ) Leave them one crate. For the cause! Zorg's men leave a crate and exit with the other three.
ZORG: I don't like warriors! They're too narrow-minded, no sublety. Worse, they fight for hopeless causes..for honor! Honor has killed millions of people but hasn't saved a single one. You know what do I like though, I like killer. Clean. Methodical. Thorough. A killer, when he picked up the ZF1, would've immediately asked about the little red button on the bottom of the gun.
ZORG: ( impassive ) Bring the priest.
KORBEN: So you forgive me? The cat meows just as a red light blinks, announcing the arrival of a message in a glass tube. Korben ignores it.
THAI: Not going to open?
KORBEN: I've never gotten a message that wasn't bad news.
THAI: How someone strong like you scared from a message? Is good news I sure!
KORBEN: The last two messages I got? The first one was from my wife telling me she was leaving! And the second was from my lawyer telling me he was leaving too. with my wife.
THAI: You right that is bad.. but mathematically luck must change! Grandfather say: "It never rain every day." This is good news guarantee.. I bet you lunch! Korben hesitates, then gives the envelope to the Thai, who opens it with a big smile that fades as reads the contents aloud.
THAI: .You're fired. Oh! Korben smiles at him.
KORBEN: At least I won lunch.
THAI: Good philosophy..see good in bad.. I like..I prepare number one dessert.. special for you and pussy.. The cat meows.
DAVID: I got it! Everything here we need to know about Fhloston Paradise Hotel. and a detailed blueprint of the entire hotel!
CORNELIUS: Good work, my son. Now all we need is a way to get there. The doorbell rings.
CORNELIUS: I'll get it. Finish your work my son. Cornelius opens to Right Arm with armed escort.
RIGHT ARM: Father Cornelius?
CORNELIUS: My son?
RIGHT ARM: Mr. Zorg would like a word with you.
CORNELIUS: Mr. Who?
ZORG: Zorg. Jean-Baptiste Emmanuel Zorg. nice to see you again
CORNELIUS: I remember you now..the so called art dealer.
ZORG: I'm glad you got your memory back, Father. Because you're going to need it. Where are the stones?
CORNELIUS: .Why on earth do the stones interest you?
ZORG: Personally, they are of no interest to me, I'd rather sell weapons..but I have a customer. so tell me.
CORNELIUS: Even it I did know where the stones were I would never tell somebody like you.
ZORG: Why? What's wrong with me?
CORNELIUS: .I'm a priest! I'm here to serve life, All you want to do is destroy it.
ZORG: Ah, Father. You are so wrong. Let me explain. Zorg leads Cornelius into his inner office.
ZORG: .would you like a drink?
CORNELIUS: No thank you.
ZORG: Follow me.. Life, which you so nobly serve, comes from destruction. Look at this empty Zorg pushes the glass with his finger.
ZORG: Here it is. peaceful. serene. but if it is. Zorg pushes the glass off the table. It shatters on the floor.
ZORG: Small individual robots, both free-wheeling and integrated, come zipping out to clean up the mess.
ZORG: .Look at all these little things. so busy all of a sudden. Notice how each one is useful. What a lovely ballet, so full of form and color. So full of..life!
CORNELIUS: They are robots! A SERVANT comes in pours water in another glass. Zorg tosses a cherry into it.
ZORG: Yes but. by that simple gesture of destruction. I gave work to at least fifty people today. The engineers, the technicians, the mechanics. Fifty people who will be able to feed their children so they can grow up big and strong. Children who will have children of their own, adding to the great cycle of life! Cornelius sits in silence.
ZORG: Father, by creating a little destruction, I am, in fact, encouraging life! So, in reality, you and I are in the same business!
CORNELIUS: Destroying a glass is one thing..killing people with the weapons you produce is quite another.
ZORG: Let me reassure you Father..I will never kill more people in my entire life than religion has killed in the last 2000 years. Zorg smiles, holds up the glass and takes a drink. Unfortunately, he chokes on the cherry. Unable to breathe, Zorg starts to panic.
CORNELIUS: ( mocking ) Where's the robot to pat your back? Zorg falls, writhing, on his desk, inadvertently hitting buttons which trigger a slew of little mechanisms. They pop out all over the desk. True chaos reigns. Even a cage appears, holding a Souliman Aktapan, a fat multicolored beastie, PICASSO, who seems surprised to be out in daylight. He licks his half-dead master in thanks. Cornelius gets up and walks around the desk. Zorg motions for help.
CORNELIUS: Can I give you a hand? Cornelius whacks him on the back. The cherry comes flying out. Zorg regains control of himself. GUARDS come running in.
ZORG: You saved my life. So, I'm going to spare yours. Throw him out! The GUARDS throw Cornelius out.
CORNELIUS: You are a monster, Zorg!
ZORG: ( complimented ) I know. The GUARDS drag Cornelius out of the office.
ZORG: .Torture whoever you want, the president if you have to but I want those Stones. You have an hour. Right Arm salutes and hurries out of the office.
CAPTAIN: ( observing ) It's gobbling up all the communication satellites in the galaxy!
PRESIDENT: Why the hell is it eating up all those satellites like that?
HEAD SCIENTIST: ( desperate ) .We're working on it, Mr. President. We're working on it.
PRESIDENT: It should only choke on them. MUNRO enters the office just as a cockroach crawls onto the desk. There's a small antenna on its back.
MUNRO: I managed to contact the Mondoshawan. They deplore the incident, but accept our And the Stones? Did you find them in the The-Stones weren't aboard the ship.
PRESIDENT: ( relieved ) And the Stones? Did you find them in the The-Stones weren't aboard the ship.
MUNRO: The-Stones weren't aboard the ship.
PRESIDENT: ( surprised ) .What do you mean? The President is all ears. So is Zorg's Right Arm.
MUNRO: The Mondoshawan never fully trusted the human race..they felt we're too unpredictable.. so they gave up the Stones to somebody they do trust. Her name is Plavalaguna. She's a Diva and she's going to sing at the charity ball on Fhloston Paradise in a few hours. She has the Stones with her. The President breathes easier. Zorg's Right Arm is delighted.
PRESIDENT: ( taking off a shoe ) The President crushes the cockroach with his shoe. Right Arm's earphones fly off his head. Good-bye eardrums.
PRESIDENT: I want your best man on this!
MUNRO: Don't worry, Sir. I have the perfect one.
THAI: Stewed jellyfish cake.. my speciality.. Korben forces a weak, polite smile as the Thai looks on expectantly. The phone rings.
KORBEN: Saved by the bell. Korben rises to get his cigarettes, and answer the phone.
KORBEN: MOTHER ( V.O. ) You're the nastiest dirtbag I know in this stinking City!
KORBEN: ( resigned ) Hi Ma.
KORBEN: ( resigned ) Yes ma.. Korben sighs and puts the match back in the box. Korben enters his code on the keypad the Thai is holding.
KORBEN: ( to the Thai ) Go on. This is gonna take a while! The Thai casts oft. Korben closes the window.
KORBEN: Other than that. You all right?
KORBEN: ( to the cat ) I'm coming!. Ma, what're you talking I get it! You want to make me beg, is that it?
KORBEN: All I want is an explanation! I just got in, I lost my job. I smashed my cab. I got mugged, but other than that everything's peachy, Ma, thanks for asking!! Now settle down and explain to me calmly.. A message drops in his tube. The red light goes on.
KORBEN: Ma. If I'd won, I'd know about it. Someone would have notified me.
KORBEN: Ma.. it's the door. I'll call you back. Korben hangs up before his mother can say anything and heads for the door. Before he gets there it opens, General Munro enters followed by a Captain and a Major. MAJOR ICEBORG is a woman. All she needs to become a man is a mustache. Munro opens a file.
MUNRO: ( clipped ) Major Dallas, if our calculations are correct you still have 57 hours owed to the Federal Army on your enlistment which is more than you will need for a mission of the utmost What mission?
KORBEN: What mission?
MUNRO: To save the world.
KORBEN: Where have I heard this song before?
MUNRO: You're to leave immediately for Fhloston Paradise. Retrieve four Stones from the Diva Plavalaguna. And bring them back with the utmost discretion as possible. Any questions'?
KORBEN: ( a little bewildered ) Just one. why me?
MUNRO: Three reasons. One: As part of The Elite Special Forces Unit of the Federated Army you are an expert in the use of all weapons and spacecraft needed for this mission. Munro pulls out a long list of documents.
MUNRO: Two: Of all the members of your unit you were the most highly decorated.
KORBEN: And the third one?
MUNRO: You're the only one left alive. Munro removes the message Korben hasn't bothered to look at.
MUNRO: Don't you open your messages?
KORBEN: I've had enough good news for today
MUNRO: ( by rote ) You have won the annual Gemini contest and a trip to Fhloston Paradise. For two. Here are your tickets. He hands Korben the tickets. Korben gets it.
KORBEN: You rigged the contest? Munro nods.
MUNRO: Major Iceborg will accompany you. as your wife. The idea of taking a trip with Iceborg makes him sick.
KORBEN: ( sarcastic ) You couldn't come up with something a little more discreet?
MUNRO: Old tricks are the best tricks eh?
KORBEN: I'm not going.
MUNRO: Why not?
KORBEN: One reason. I want to stay the only one left alive.
KORBEN: .Scuse me. Korben goes to the door and looks out the peephole: the beautiful Leeloo. Korben panics, overcome with happiness.
KORBEN: ( worried ) What is it? Korben has two seconds to make up something to get rid of Munro.
MUNRO: ( worried ) What is it? Korben has two seconds to make up something to get rid of Munro.
KORBEN: It's my wife.
MUNRO: I thought you were divorced.
KORBEN: I mean my future.. my ex.. My future ex.. if she sees you here I'm finished. She hates you guys. It's what killed us in the first place. He puts them in the fridge, shoving the jellyfish cake in Iceborg's .Sorry, General, but we've got no choice! It'll only take a minute! Let me set up another meeting and I'll be back.
KORBEN: .Sorry, General, but we've got no choice! It'll only take a minute! Let me set up another meeting and I'll be back.
MUNRO: Three of us will never fit in there!
KORBEN: ( pushing him ) Oh, yes you will. Korben slams the fridge door. The doorbell RINGS again.
KORBEN: He whips through his place in ten seconds, gathers up things laying shuts drawers, rolls up his laundry in the folding bed. He brushes his hair back and opens the door with a big smile only to discover a gun stuck between eyes held by Cornelius.
LEELOO: I suppose that means "Hi" ?
KORBEN: I suppose that means "Hi" ?
CORNELIUS: I'm sorry to have to resort to such methods, but we heard about your good luck on he radio and we need the tickets to Fhloston.
KORBEN: Is that the usual way priests go on We're not going on vacation..we're on a mission..
CORNELIUS: We're not going on vacation..we're on a mission..
KORBEN: What kind of mission?
CORNELIUS: ( sincere ) We have to save the world.
KORBEN: ( skeptical ) Good luck..
CORNELIUS: Of course.
KORBEN: Father, I was in the Army for awhile and every time they told us we were on a mission to save the world the only thing that changed was I lost a lot of friends. So thanks for the offer.. but no thanks. Cornelius is disappointed. Leeloo looks crestfallen.
KORBEN: I'm sorry..
VOICE: This is a police control action.. Everyone freezes as the whole building resounds with the electronic 111 INT. LANDING KORBEN'S BUILDING A group of POLICEMEN bursts into the hallway. One of the cops enters a code on the police wall box. A device descends from the ceiling, a flashing light-siren, a VOICE fills the air.
VOICE: This is not an exercise. This is a police control. Cornelius starts to panic. Korben takes charge.
CORNELIUS: Oh my god oh my god.. Korben pushes a button sending the fridge to the next floor. A shower takes it's place.
KORBEN: Leeloo, hide in here and don't move! Leeloo hops in. Korben tosses Cornelius on the bed.
CORNELIUS: What are you doing?
KORBEN: Trying to save your ass so you can save the world. ..and hits a button on the wall. The bed disappears into the wall. Korben grabs his tickets and slides them in his belt.
VOICE: .Spread your legs and place your hands in the yellow circles, please. A COP slaps a viewer device on Korben's door which makes part of it Put your hands in the yellow circles, Korben takes his time hiding his face. The Cop looks at his sheet. He's looking for a. KORBEN DALLAS. He has his picture, but it is Korben with long hair and beard.
COP 1: Put your hands in the yellow circles, Korben takes his time hiding his face. The Cop looks at his sheet. He's looking for a. KORBEN DALLAS. He has his picture, but it is Korben with long hair and beard.
COP 1: ( to COP 2 ) Sir? Are you a human?
KORBEN: No, I'm a meat popsicle.
COP 3: ( at the other end of the hall ) I found him! C.U. Korben's calling card is clumsily stuck to the door of the neighbor's apartment. COP 3 slaps the viewer on the nasty neighbor's door. The neighbor is at his sink shaving instead of against the wall, COP 1 arrives with Korben's picture.
COP 1: Sir, this is a control. Please put your hands in the yellow circles. The neighbor steps right up to the viewer, shaving cream on his face. He could pass for Korben.
NEIGHBOR: Fuck you!!
KORBEN: Wrong answer. SHOT O.S. EXPLOSION. Scuffle.
COP: OK, we got the guy under wraps.
RIGHT ARM: ( smiling ) Glad to help. He hangs up.
RIGHT ARM: They just arrested the guy for Uranium smuggling. Everything's going as planned. He shows him a plane ticket, and a passport with his picture and Korben's All I have to do now is to go to the airport and take his place. I should be in Fhloston in less than four hours. Zorg sits there quietly for a moment.
RIGHT ARM: All I have to do now is to go to the airport and take his place. I should be in Fhloston in less than four hours. Zorg sits there quietly for a moment.
ZORG: Don't come back without the Stones.
KORBEN: I'm really sorry.. there wasn't time. His eyes fall on an old blanket.
KORBEN: Here let me wrap you up. Korben wraps her in an blanket and vigoroualy rubs her back. Leeloo warms gradually and snuggles closer to that warm comfortable shoulder. Korben's rubbing slows, looking more like caresses.
KORBEN: ..It's funny. I've met you twice today and you've ended up in my arms both times. Leeloo suddenly realizes that she has maybe gone a bit too far. She recovers, looking embarrassed too.
LEELOO: ( nicely ) Valo massa. Chacha hamas.
KORBEN: Uh..you're welcome. The intimacy makes him nervous. He looks for a diversion.
KORBEN: Coffee! That's what you need! A nice, hot cup of coffee! He pushes a button on the coffee machine.
KORBEN: With some honey! You'll see, honey's Korben rummages through the drawer. Leeloo, innocent, doesn't seem to quite understand everything that is going on.
KORBEN: A hot cup of coffee. with honey. He rummages through the cupboard, exceedingly nervous. Leeloo smiles and begins to look around. She opens a drawer and comes upon..
KORBEN: ( nervously ) I've got this great honey somewhere. You know about honey? There used to be these little animals who made it with antenna. ..pictures of Major Korben Dallas War Hero.
KORBEN: ..and these other animals who ate it.. one were bees the other were bears.. She looks back to the man fumbling for honey.
KORBEN: I forget which ate it and which made it And she smiles.
KORBEN: Here it is! Korben holds up the jar of honey.
KORBEN: Taste this. Leeloo innocently sticks his finger in the jar then puts it in her mouth.
KORBEN: It. melts in your mouth, doesn't it? She savors the honey, slowly; sensually. Her lips shine with honey. Her eyes narrow with pleasure. Korben is hypnotized by her lips, like a moth attracted to a flame. He begins to lose control, which makes him nervous. An indistinct sound comes from the wall. But Korben is so entranced with the sight of Leeloo licking her honied fingers, he doesn't hear it until it becomes quite a racket.
KORBEN: You hear that?
LEELOO: ( licking ) Oh god! Korben pushes the button on the wall. The bed pops out, fully made, with Cornelius tucked in it, struggling to get out.
KORBEN: Oh god! Korben pushes the button on the wall. The bed pops out, fully made, with Cornelius tucked in it, struggling to get out.
KORBEN: I'm really sorry.. let me help you.. Korben begins to pull at the covers when..
LEELOO: Achta ge lumitai de matala.. Korben turns..
KORBEN: He turns to Leeloo struggling out of her wet clothes. His breath is taken away by the sight of her perfect body. Cornelius whacks him heavily on the head with a lamp. Korben drops to the floor.
LEELOO: ( displeased ) Vano da, mechteba?! Soun domo kala chon hammas!
CORNELIUS: No, I'm not proud of myself. But we don't have the luxury of choice.
AKANIT: Korben Dallas! We got him.
AKNOT: Perfect. Take command, Akanit. Go to Fhloston and get the Stones. If Zorg really wants them. He'll have to negotiate. Revenge is at hand.
KORBEN: Jesus!. Some priest! The phone rings, he manages to answer.
KORBEN: MOTHER ( V.O ) Have you pulled yourself together?
KORBEN: .Not yet. He hangs up. Korben opens the fridge door. The three officers are frozen solid. Korben grabs some ice, presses it to his forehead.
KORBEN: I'll take the mission. He closes the door.
SECURITY GUARD: Illegal gathering in Zone 4. A hand taps Leeloo from behind. She whips around catching David in the Leeloo, be careful. He turns to David who in holding his bloody nose.
CORNELIUS: Leeloo, be careful. He turns to David who in holding his bloody nose.
CORNELIUS: Did you get them? David hands Cornelius two passports.
CORNELIUS: Excellent. Leeloo Dallas. He hands it to her. The name makes her smile.
CORNELIUS: And Korben David Dallas. She frowns.
LEELOO: Akta dedero ansila do mektet.
CORNELIUS: I can't pretend to be your husband. David's in great shape. She looks at David holding his bloody nose.
CORNELIUS: He'll protect you. Go on. See the Diva. get the Stones. See you at the temple. God be with you. ANGLE ON: Korben comes rushing into the airport. Walking quickly, he scopes the hall looking for Leeloo. A POLICE PATROL bearing down on the STRIKERS jostles him. The cops open fire. The strikers dive into the garbage and disappear.
KORBEN: ( friendly ) Hey! I really thought I was going to miss my flight! ( to David ) Thanks, kid! You put the luggage on the conveyor belt?
DAVID: ( freaking ) Uh. yeah.
KORBEN: ( smiling ) Great! Now beat it! Paralyzed, David leaves. Korben turns to the attendant.
KORBEN: Excuse me. I was so afraid I'd miss the flight that I sent the kid here to pick up my boarding card. He looks at David's fake ID.
KORBEN: .My cousin David. Leeloo is unable to hold back a smile.
KORBEN: Uh, yes. Newlyweds. You know how it is. Love at first sight. You meet, something goes tilt,. you get married, you hardly know each other. Right, darling? Leeloo rips her boarding card out of the attendant's hand.
LEELOO: ( sharply ) Dinoine chagantakat!
KORBEN: Took the words right out of my mouth. Go on. I'll be right with you. It's our honeymoon. We're going to use the trip to get to know each other better. He winks at the stewardess.
COP: ( to pig ) Come on, snyffer, go root! The pig piles into the garbage. The Cop cuts it some slack. Cornelius sits at a bar.
CORNELIUS: ( to the bartender ) I feel so guilty sending her to do the dirty work. I know she was made to be strong but she's also so fragile. So human. You know what I mean? The bartender, a robot, nods his head as he pours Cornelius a drink.
NEIGHBOR: ( in a different voice ) Yes, that's me. The check-in attendant triggers a transparent blue light that shines on their faces, revealing two other faces: ( smiling ) Just a minute, please. She hits a silent alarm, but the Mangalores feel something is wrong.
NEIGHBOR: We'll be right back . we're gonna check out the duty free. They spin around and hurry away.
ROBOT: The same?
CORNELIUS: DAVID ( V.O. ) Make that two. Cornelius turns to David.
CORNELIUS: Where's Leeloo?
DAVID: On the plane. with Mr. Dallas. the real one.
CORNELIUS: It's all my fault. I'm the servant. It's my mission! Here! He hands David the Temple Key from around his neck.
CORNELIUS: Here's the key to the Temple.. Prepare for our arrival! Cornelius tosses David's drink into his own, downs it all in one shot, and takes off, passing the Mangalore couple headed for the exit. They are very nervous. A police patrol is coming. This time, it seems to be for them.
NEIGHBOR: ( to the tawdry girl ) Tell Aknot plan A flopped. Tell him to go to plan B. The tawdry girl nods and peels off. The neighbor takes out a gun and blasts away at the cops. The cops fire back. A firefight rages in the hall. The tawdry girl dives into a pile of garbage and disappears.
COP: ( into walkie-talkie ) .Send in a back-up unit, Zone 7!
STEWARDESS: You are so lucky. Loc Rhod is the coolest DJ in the universe.
KORBEN: Listen. I don't want to be interviewed. I'd prefer to remain anonymous. The stewardess stops in the corridor.
STEWARDESS: Forget anonymous. You'll be doing Loc Rhod's live show every day from 5 to 7!
KORBEN: ( expression changes ) You gotta be kidding! The stewardess smiles and shakes her head. The door next to him suddenly swings open and smashes him in the face. In walks LOC RHOD amidst a tornado of music and security guards. He is young, good-looking, eccentric, charming as an elf or sly as a fox. A bundle of energy. He is the 24th century's most popular DJ.
LOC RHOD: ( speedy, in rhythm ) Korben Dallas! Here he is The most hated man in the universe. The one and only winner of the Gemini Croquette contest! Ladies, start melting 'cause the boy's hot! Hot! Hot! The boy is perfect.. ( he feels his muscles ) .The right size, right build, right hair. Right on! Say something-to those 50 billion pair of ears out there D-man! An ASSISTANT hands a totally lost Korben a mike.
KORBEN: ( hesitant ) Does it get any better or what! Loc Rhod grabs Korben's arm and leads him down the hallway, as fast as the music.
LOC RHOD: Does it get any better or what! Loc Rhod grabs Korben's arm and leads him down the hallway, as fast as the music.
LOC RHOD: .Quiver ladies, he's gonna set the world on fire right here from 5 to 7! You'll know everything there is to know about the D-man. His dreams, his desires, his most intimate of intimates. And from what I'm looking at intimate is the stud muffin's middle name. So tell me my main man. you nervous in the Uh. not really. Loc Rhod lets go of Korben's arm and grabs the Stewardess.
KORBEN: Uh. not really. Loc Rhod lets go of Korben's arm and grabs the Stewardess.
LOC RHOD: Freeze those knees, my chickadees, 'cause Korben is on the case with a major face. Loc Rhod rubs up against the stewardess.
LOC RHOD: .Start drooling, ladies! My man here is a sharp-tongued Sire who's gonna stroke your every desire. They come to an intersection. The airline company has prepared drinks for them. Loc Rhod pushes on, grabs a glass of champagne, scribbles his Yesterday's unknown will be tomorrow's Prince of Fhloston Paradise, the hotel of a thousand and one follies, home of luxury and beauty. A magic fountain flowing with non-stop wine, women and Bootchie Koochie Koo. He tosses away his champagne glass.
LOC RHOD: Yesterday's unknown will be tomorrow's Prince of Fhloston Paradise, the hotel of a thousand and one follies, home of luxury and beauty. A magic fountain flowing with non-stop wine, women and Bootchie Koochie Koo. He tosses away his champagne glass.
LOC RHOD: Beware out there puppy dogs my man is on the prowl. Owwww! Howling, Loc Rhod grabs another stewardess by the arm.
LOC RHOD: .And start licking your stamps little girls, this guy's gonna have you writing home to Momma! Tomorrow from 5 to 7, I'll be your voice, your tongue and I'll be hot on the tail of the sexiest man of the year. D-man. Your man. My man. The stewardess shivers. A BEEP is heard.
LOC RHOD: Korben sweetheart do me a favor I know this is probably the biggest thing that ever happened to you in your inconsequential life. But I've got a show to do here and it's got to pop. So tomorrow, when we're on air, give me a hand. Try to make believe you have more than a one word vocabulary. OK pal? That does it. Korben grabs him by the collar and drags him into a Loc Rhod's feet don't touch the ground.
KORBEN: ( pissed ) I didn't come here to play Dumbo on the radio. So tomorrow between 5 and 7 give yourself a hand, that clear pal?
LOC RHOD: ( petrified ) 124 INT. AIRPORT The Check-in attendant has two more tickets in her hand.
RIGHT ARM: That's right. The attendant scans the ID with a yellow beam, it checks out, and the blue light reveals no other face but his.
RIGHT ARM: That's impossible! He's in j. I mean, there must be some mistake. I have my ticket! I'm the real Korben Dallas! A shrill BELL rings out.
RIGHT ARM: I want to see your boss! Get rid of this fucking window! Somebody's made a mistake, goddamnit! He pounds on the counter with both fists. A steel curtain comes down. Red sighting beams target spots on his body, ten gun barrels protrude from the wall, all aimed at him.
RIGHT ARM: ( slowing down ) Sorry, my fault. Just a little overexcited. that's all. I'm calm now.
LEELOO: Not hard to find you.just follow the Leeloo smiles, as if complimented.
KORBEN: Not hard to find you.just follow the Leeloo smiles, as if complimented.
KORBEN: Leeloo, listen to me. these tickets. they're not mine. I mean they are, but not for vacation like everyone thinks. I'm on an operation. and if I didn't come get you, you'd be in a shitload of trouble. I'd love to be on vacation with you. but now.. now I've got to work. And Leeloo. I would love to work in peace. Leeloo types in "LOVE" on the keyboard.
LEELOO: Yes! But "love" isn't the operative word here, PEACE is! Leeloo types in this new word.
KORBEN: Yes! But "love" isn't the operative word here, PEACE is! Leeloo types in this new word.
LEELOO: ( rather pleased ) Peace. and love. She brings up a picture of a 60's style Hippie flashing a peace sign. Korben sighs and switches off the screen.
KORBEN: Sometimes you can't learn everything from a screen..sometimes it's better to ask someone who has experience..
LEELOO: ( quite happy ) What is. Make Love? Korben just stares at her for a few minutes.
KORBEN: Know what? On that subject maybe you'd be better off asking the screen. He turns the computer back on.
LEELOO: ( switching off the screen ) OK! Finished!
KORBEN: Finished what?
LEELOO: Learning language.
KORBEN: Which one?
LEELOO: All 900. Korben doesn't know if he should laugh or not.
KORBEN: You learned 900 languages in five Yes! Now it's your turn! I learned your language, you have to learn mine!
LEELOO: ( pleased ) Yes! Now it's your turn! I learned your language, you have to learn mine!
KORBEN: I know how to say "Hello". Teach me how to say "Good-bye", that's all I need.
LEELOO: Good! Do you know how we say "make love"?
KORBEN: Good! Do you know how we say "make love"?
LEELOO: Good! Do you know how we say "make love"?
KORBEN: ( fumbling ) Korben literally melts.
LEELOO: Korben literally melts.
KORBEN: ( to himself ) Luckily, a stewardess smiles at him through the box window.
STEWARDESS: Sweet dreams, Mr. Dallas! The stewardess sets the timing sleeper. Korben and Leeloo immediately fall asleep. A STEWARDESS at the other end of the shuttle has a problem.
STEWARDESS 2: Mr. Loc Rhod you have to assume your individual position.
LOC RHOD: ( hugging her ) I don't want an individual position, I want all positions!
STEWARDESS 2: ( resisting somewhat ) We're going to take off soon, Mr. Rhod!
LOC RHOD: Now you're talking!
COPILOT: ( on the radio ) Molecular axis authorization. Vector 130. Destination Fhloston. Stewardess 1 enters the cockpit.
STEWARDESS 1: Zone 1. 217 locked. The sleep regulator is OK.
PILOT: ( checking her out ) Thanks, Miss. The Stewardess leaves with a smile. A red light flashes on the vast control panel.
MECHANIC: Tell the ground crew we've got parasites in the landing gear.
RIGHT ARM: Yeah, it's me. Put Zorg on. He is already sweating.
ZORG: ( cold ) I'm listening.
RIGHT ARM: The real Korben Dallas is on the plane! He took my place.
ZORG: This is a joke, right?
LOC RHOD: No!! I swear to God! I've never been this sincere with a human before!
PILOT: ( to copilot ) Everything ready for liftoff?
STEWARDESS: ( weakly, to Loc Rhod ) No, no. I'm not ready! I'd like to talk first.
ZORG: I cannot hear you. We have a bad connection here. What's your number? Right Arm reads off the phone number.
RIGHT ARM: I'll call you back.
ZORG: I'll call you back.
COPILOT: Anti static pressure?
MECHANIC: The mechanic presses a series of buttons.
ZORG: ( typing the number )
COPILOT: 10 seconds.
PILOT: Power increase. - The stewardess undergoes a power surge from Loc Rhod that's about to lift her of. - Zorg finishes gleefully typing in the number.
ZORG: 3. 2. 1. - The engines at full blast. - The stewardess in close to screaming.
PILOT: - The copilot pushes a button. - So does Zorg. - The engines release their full power. - The stewardess screams in ecstasy. - In the hall, Right Arm literally explodes along with the phone and everything else within 60 feet.
COPILOT: ( relaxing ) Landing gear secure. Let's light one up.
TECHNICIAN: All right! We're finally getting something!
HEAD SCIENTIST: The thing is sending out radio wavelengths!
PRESIDENT: What the hell does it want with radio waves?
HEAD SCIENTIST: .Probably wants to make a call! The President and his Generals look at him in astonishment.
ZORG: Yes. Zorg here. The voice is feeble. It comes from the far reaches of time, from the bowels of the universe.
SHADOW: Am I disturbing you?
ZORG: No. not at all. Where are you? SHADOW'S breathing is awesome.
SHADOW: .Not far, now.
ZORG: Really? Maybe I can get you on my screen and see you at last! Zorg brings up a huge screen and pushes a few buttons. In the middle of an electronic snowstorm, a blackish, vaguely human, quiverinq form appears. Two eyes, like lava, give an idea where the head is. Zorg feels sick.
SHADOW: Do you have the picture now Mr. Zorg?
ZORG: Got it.
SHADOW: How's our deal coming along?
ZORG: ( ill at ease ) Fine, just fine! I'll have the 4 pieces you asked for any time now. But it wasn't easy. My costs have tripled. Shadow pauses an instant. A black slimy liquid starts to ooze from the top of the screen. Zorg is feeling worse all the time.
SHADOW: Money is of no importance. I want the Stones! The black liquid oozes all over the screen which starts to melt. Zorg sweats profusely, his legs tremble.
ZORG: The Stones will be here. I'll see to it .I can't wait to be among you. Zorg sighs and sits down totally freaked.
SHADOW: .I can't wait to be among you. Zorg sighs and sits down totally freaked.
STEWARDESS: Ladies and gentlemen, we have begun our descent toward Fhloston Paradise. Stewardesses walk down the aisles waking the passengers one by one. They press a button on the door of each box. In the corner, Loc Rhod and the stewardess awake with a start and straighten their clothes quickly. The stewardess is embarrassed.
STEWARDESS: ( timidly ) I wanted to tell you that. Loc Rhod puts on his sunglasses and presses a finger to her lips. He disappears behind the curtain leaving the sighing stewardess on her own.
PILOT: Shit! Parasites in Zone 1. Take a look. The 1st Mate heads off.
PILOT: Docking activated. You can let the passengers out.
KORBEN: ( jostling everybody ) Pardon me. Excuse me. I'm trying to reach my wife.. Sorry!
HOSTESS: ( smiling ) Welcome to Paradise. Korben's face is covered in lipstick. Leeloo sees he did nothing to stop the girl and she doesn't like it. A HEFTY MAN wearing a sarong drapes some flowers around her neck. Then, obviously relishing it, he leans down to kiss her. Leeloo bashes him on the forehead. The hefty man straightens up. He's still smiling, but his nose is bleeding. He falls slowly to the floor. Korben pushes forward trying to spot Leeloo. He also tries to wipe the lipstick off. Leeloo tries to escape through a door marked PERSONNEL ONLY, but it's locked. A HOST looks at her with a grin.
HOST: ( playful ) If you don't have the code you can't open it! Leeloo smiles and punches in an old code and twists the doorknob. The door opens with the sound of a braking lock. Leeloo smiles sweetly and enters as if nothing were amiss. A shriek of joy fills the room. Korben turns around. The HOSTESSES cluster around Loc Rhod as he comes out of the plane. Loc Rhod spots Korben and latches onto his arm. It's not going to be easy to remain discrete.
LOC RHOD: ( relieved ) My main man! Please don't leave me here alone. My head's killing me and my adoring fans are gonna tear me apart! Get me outta I'll take you to the bar, after that, you're on your own.
KORBEN: I'll take you to the bar, after that, you're on your own.
LOC RHOD: ( hanging on to Korben ) Oh, yes! Do that! You treat me right, man. Tell me all about yourself, your roots, your personal life, your childhood I don't think this is a good time.
KORBEN: I don't think this is a good time.
LOC RHOD: .You got brothers and sisters? What about your dad? Tell me about your dad! What was he like? Physically? Big, I suppose?
KORBEN: ( evasive ) Yeah, very big, a giant.
LOC RHOD: I didn't have a dad. never saw him. never even heard him. 50 billion people listen to me every day. and he doesn't hear me.
KORBEN: For the concert it says formal attire. I didn't bring. The hostess pulls back the closet door. Twenty tuxedos in a row.
HOSTESS: ( looking him over ) Here's some champagne. I'll drop by after the concert to open it. She gives him a blinding smile and closes the door. Korben pushes a button. The curtains open to reveal a most spectacular view of the turquoise planet. Stars shoot out into infinity. Breathtaking. Korben stands gaping. The phone rings, snapping him out of his reverie.
KORBEN: MOTHER ( O.S. ) You little sleaze bag!
KORBEN: MOTHER ( O.S. ) Don't you ever ask me for another thing in my life again, you've killed your poor mother with your own hands! Korben drops into an armchair and sighs. His eyes go to the ceiling.
KORBEN: 165 INT. CONTROL ROOM FHLOSTON PARADISE - OMIT 166 INT. FHLOSTON PARADISE POLICE OFFICE - DAY
FOG: The Diva's ship is coming in.
FOG: Yes. Sir!
CORNELIUS: Where was I?
CORNELIUS: And the smile of an angel? They all turn to look at him.
CORNELIUS: ( to Chief ) May I speak to you alone.
DIVA'S ASSISTANT: Please forgive this little incident. She wants you to know that she senses great powers in you. in the service of a noble cause. She will give you what you have come to get, but she wants to sing first. One last time. The Diva's assistant turns the painting right side up.
DIVA'S ASSISTANT: ( nodding ) Leeloo looks at the painting, seems to understand it better.
FOG: Hello, I'm head of security. Everything is in order. You can. The Diva enters her suite without letting him finish.
FOG: .make yourselves at home safely. If you need anything.give it a knock!
KORBEN: Listen, Ma! I've only got a few days vacation and I'll be damned if I'm gonna spend them on the phone. The door RINGS.
KORBEN: .Hang on, it's the door. No! I told you I didn't bring anybody! I'm all alone. as usual! Korben opens the door. It's not the champagne. Even better. It's .I'll call you back. Leeloo heads right for her suitcase and starts to undress. Korben has to turn away once more.
KORBEN: ( to his mother ) .I'll call you back. Leeloo heads right for her suitcase and starts to undress. Korben has to turn away once more.
KORBEN: Here we go again.
LEELOO: ( by rote ) You know women normally change five times more than men.
KORBEN: You get that off the screen?
LEELOO: Yes. you know there's a lot of differences between men women.
KORBEN: You noticed..
LEELOO: OK, you can turn around! Korben turns around. Leeloo has put on a very simple dress which is sexy to the max. He is smitten. So much so that Leeloo wonders if something isn't quite right.
KORBEN: Where you going?
LEELOO: I'm going to see the Diva sing. What's the matter?. Do I look bad?
KORBEN: No, not at all! I mean, just the opposite, you're. you're beautiful! Leeloo smiles at him, his compliment pleases her. She turns, revealing her unzippered back. Korben cannot help but stare at her bare flesh. Her perfect bottom.
LEELOO: Do you know how this works? Korben's blood boils. She wriggles, pressing her hands together close to the zipper.
KORBEN: I have an idea. But instead of pulling on the zipper he slips a bracelet on her wrist. A flourescent beam bursts out of the bracelet and forms a vertical bar going from the floor to the ceiling. Stunned, Leeloo is held captive.
KORBEN: I told you I need to work in peace. Remember? I need to concentrate.
LEELOO: And you can't concentrate with me It's difficult. She tries to breakout.
KORBEN: It's difficult. She tries to breakout.
KORBEN: Army issue. I'm sorry. Leeloo tries desperately to get out of the handcuffs. Impossible. Korben sets the radio down in front of her and turns it on. Leeloo looks like she'd like to break his head.
LEELOO: ( seething ) You're nothing but a. a.
KORBEN: The words you're looking for weren't in the dictionary you studied. I won't be long. The door flies open. Loc Rhod barges in.
LOC RHOD: Hey Stud we gotta. Then he sees the scene, Leeloo cuffed, in a low cut dress. His mind goes to the obvious.
LOC RHOD: Korben my man what's happening here? Who's the chick? What's the gig? We free forming here? Getting funky with the monkey? Can I get in on this? Korben grabs him by the collar..
KORBEN: No..to all of the above. And yanks Loc Rhod out of the room. Leaving Leeloo looking extremely 171 INT. RADIO - OMIT 172 INT. LOC RHOD'S STATEROOM FHLOSTON PARADISE - NIGHT - OMIT 173 INT. HALL - OMIT 174 INT. BATHROOM - OMIT 175 INT. DIVA'S SUITE FHLOSTON PARADISE - NIGHT - OMIT 176 INT. FHLOSTON PARADISE OPERA - NIGHT Loc Rhod and Korben enter what turns out to be a replica of the Garnier Opera in Paris. A hostess escorts them to their seats.
LOC RHOD: ( broadcasting ) We have just walked into what is probably the most beautiful concert hall in the universe. Totally awesome! Magnificent paintings on the ceiling. I don't know who painted them, but he must have busted his balls! I see a row of former ministers, more sinister than minister! A few generals practicing how to sleep. And there's Baby Ray, star of stage and screen, drowning in a sea of nymphets. He's not gonna get much out of this concert, he's ANGLE ON: Baby Ray bending his ear to a girl asking for an autograph.
BABY RAY: .to who?
LOC RHOD: ( moving down the aisle ) .And over there is Roy Von Bacon, the king of laserball and the best paid player in the League. ( shakes hands as he goes by ) .And over there is the Emperor Kodar Japhet whose daughter Aachen is still at the bar. "I love to sing, too, but in the shower", she recently confessed to me. She will no doubt prove to be as generous tonight as she always is. A waiter gives them two glasses of champagne. Track with the WAITER an he leaves the hall with his empty tray. He enters a small room reserved for 177 INT. STAFF ROOM FHLOSTON PARADISE - NIGHT The waiter joins some other WAITERS. They are well armed. He opens a cupboard and pulls out a humongous weapon. Suddenly their faces burn off revealing AKANIT, the young leader of the Mangalores, and his troops.
AKANIT: It's showtime!
MANAGER: ( ugly mood ) Flowers for the Diva.
MANAGER: She's allergic to flowers!!!
CORNELIUS: .My God!
CAPTAIN: Commander, I have a ship with a main malfunction. He requests permission to dock for repairs.
COMMANDER: Did you check out his registration number?
CAPTAIN: Everything's in order.
COMMANDER: Put him in the docking garage and inform the police.
ZORG: ( cold ) More than enough.
CORNELIUS: ( in a panic ) Mangalores! The Diva's suite! They want the Sacred Stones! They must be stopped. We must stop them!. I'm going to free you but you must promise to help me! The Chief of Police nods his agreement.
MANGALORE: I have it. The Mangalore is about to open the case when. Leeloo descends quietly and gracefully from the ceiling. Time stands still.
LEELOO: ( smiling ) 191 INT. CONCERT HALL The Diva switches from classical music to funk, picking up the tempo.
MANGALORE: They were waiting for us! It was an If it's war they want it's war they'll get! Enact the Final Plan! All the Mangalores cock their weapons.
AKANIT: If it's war they want it's war they'll get! Enact the Final Plan! All the Mangalores cock their weapons.
ZORG: My compliments, little lady! .And thanks for doing all the dirty work! I couldn't have done it any better myself! .Now hand over the Stones! Leeloo smiles and hands him the case. Zorg arms the ZF1 and gets ready to kill her.
ZORG: Nice knowing you. Leeloo catches on quickly. She kicks the scotch bottle on the floor into the gun which throws Zorg's shot off. She jumps to the ceiling and disappears in an air vent. Furious, Zorg fires at the ceiling.
ZORG: ( with a crafty smile ) You can run but you can't hide.
AKANIT: Nobody move! We're taking over this The Chief of Police is goggle-eyed. Cornelius leans toward him.
CORNELIUS: ( pleased with himself ) I told you.
MANGALORE 1: Everyone down! There is panic all around.
LOC RHOD: ( broadcasting, panic stricken ) Ladies and gentlemen, I think we're being. attacked. The place is crawling with warriors.
ZORG: You want something done, do it yourself!
LOC RHOD: ( voice low, panicked ) They're hideous. They've got a crest on the head, the eyes of a toad and fingers all over their hands. Totally hideous!
MUNRO: ( worried ) Send a battalion out immediately!
PRESIDENT: Send a battalion out immediately!
KORBEN: ( to the Diva ) I was sent by the government to help you.
DIVA: Don't worry. This is my fate. How was the concert? Korben is a little surprised, but. the Diva is an artist.
KORBEN: I've never heard anything so beautiful in my life. A Mangalore jumps on them from the stage. Korben makes short work of him and grabs his gun.
DIVA: ( weak ) You're a good man. She was right to have chosen you.
KORBEN: The Fifth Element. The Supreme Being. Your wife. Korben is floored.
DIVA: The Fifth Element. The Supreme Being. Your wife. Korben is floored.
KORBEN: Leeloo. is. she's.
DIVA: Yes, and more than that. You must give her the Stones, she's the only one who knows how to use them.
KORBEN: ( to himself, suddenly realizing ) .So Cornelius was telling the truth!
CORNELIUS: ( to the Chief of Police ) Of course I was telling you the truth!. If you had listened to me in the first place, we wouldn't be in this predicament now!
DIVA: She needs you. She needs your help and your love. She's more fragile than she seems. Korben looks around, ready for another attack.
KORBEN: .Yeah, so am I. The Diva takes his hand.
DIVA: She was taught to love the life of others. but not her own. You have to teach her to love if you want her to truly live!
KORBEN: ( uncomfortable ) I'll help her, I promise, but I think you should tell me where the Stones are!
DIVA: Do you love her?
KORBEN: I. I don't know! We hardly know each other. it takes time!
DIVA: I don't have time. I need to know.
KORBEN: Listen, the last time I admitted to a woman I loved her . I never saw her again.
DIVA: I would like to have died in peace. The Diva's eyes close.
KORBEN: You tell me to save the world then you go off and leave me in the shit! He shakes her, gently slapping her cheeks.
KORBEN: Come on! You're not gonna die in peace! You're not going to die at all! You hear me? Where are the Stones?
KORBEN: I'm sorry, but. the Stones.
DIVA: ( very weak ) They are. with me. The Diva dies. Blue blood streams from her mouth. Korben frisks the Diva but doesn't find anything. The shooting slowly stops in the theatre. The Mangalores are now in total control.
MANGALORE 2: Stay calm and nobody will get hurt! Hands on your head and into the hall! The guests comply
KORBEN: ( to himself ) .The Stones are with me? and then it occurs to him.
KORBEN: .In me? He touches the Diva's stomach and senses something hard. Girding himself, he sticks his hand in the wound and pulls out a Sacred Stone. Then another. And another. Korben pulls out all four Stones, covered in blue blood. Everyone has left the theater. The Mangalores check the aisles one by one. Loc Rhod peeks out from under a seat.
LOC RHOD: Don't you think we'd better be going? A Mangalore spots Korben kneeling alongside the Diva. He grabs Korben by the shoulder and pokes him with his gun.
MANGALORE: Hey, you! With the others! Korben spins and, in one swift motion, breaks his arm. Just for starters. Another WARRIOR rushes over. Korben punches him into oblivion and snatches the gun.
KORBEN: That's it. I've had. all day people have been sticking guns in my face. Korben wraps up the four Stones in his shirt.
LOC RHOD: Korben man. These dudes are going to waste us if we don't do what they say. Korben gives him the package and grabs his mike.
KORBEN: You don't do what I say. I'll waste you myself. Got it?
LOC RHOD: Got it.
AKANIT: What's the situation in the hall?
MUGGER: ( into walkie-talkie ) There's no more resistance. Everything's under control. Three Mangalores are suddenly blasted through the glass door leading to the theater. Korben bursts into the hall, two huge guns in his hands.
KORBEN: Everybody down! Korben takes out two more WARRIORS coming towards him, rolls behind a Laser bullets stinging all around his head.
LOC RHOD: This is amazing! Korben, Korben Dallas, the winner of the Gemini Croquette contest just killed three warriors like he was swatting flies. Panic everywhere! Heavy firing fills the hall.
LOC RHOD: It's Roy von Bacon, the Lions center forward joining in the battle. Someone taps Loc Rhod on the shoulder. He jumps with fright.
PRINCESS AACHEN: ( hot to trot ) All this is terribly exciting, hmmm? Loc Rhod covers his mike.
LOC RHOD: GET OFF MY BACK! A Mangalore shoots in their direction. Loc Rhod flattens himself on the floor. A vase falls on the Princess knocking her out. A Mangalore loads some missiles in his gun and destroys the bar piece by piece forcing Korben to move forward. Korben motions to Baby Ray hiding under the pool table.
KORBEN: Toss me the balls!
BABY RAY: ( terrified, still deaf ) Another piece of the bar explodes.
KORBEN: The balls for Christ's sake! Korben apes playing pool, but Baby Ray really is stone-deaf.
EMPEROR JAPHET: He wants the balls! You deaf or something? The EMPEROR rolls the balls over to Korben. The Mangalore loads more missiles and shatters another part of the bar. Korben hides behind the last bit left.
KORBEN: How far is he from here? The EMPEROR glances at the Mangalore, who in reloading.
EMPEROR: I'd say about thirty yards to the left. Korben hefts the ball, jumps up and hurls it with blinding speed. The Mangalore catches it right in the head. He drops, firing in the air. The missile strikes the ceiling which collapses on him. The emperor gives Korben a thumb's up.
LOC RHOD: .And our man Korben has literally knocked out the opposition with an amazing 90 foot pitch. The COPS on the floor rise, scoop up weapons from dead Mangalores and lay down a line of fire at the last of the fleeing rebels . Roy whirls his arm in victory.
FOG: Thanks for your help.
KORBEN: Forget it. Korben grabs Loc Rhod and takes him with him.
KORBEN: 219 INT. DIVA'S SUITE - CEILING
LEELOO: ( feeble ) Kor. ban.
COP 1: Hey, who are you?
KORBEN: The winner of the Gemini Croquette contest. Korben goes to the door and peeks around the corner. Loc Rhod arrives.
KORBEN: Seven to the left. Five to the right.
COP: What's he doing? Korben leans around the corner and fires rapidly.
KORBEN: Six to the left. One to the right.
LOC RHOD: He's on vacation.
KORBEN: ( reloading ) We got to find the leader. Mangalores don't fight without a leader.
AKANIT: One more shot and we start killing hostages, got that?
KORBEN: Found him.
AKANIT: ( tense ) Send someone to negotiate!
KORBEN: Mind if I go? I'm an excellent Uh. Sure, go ahead. Korben gets ready.
COP 1: Uh. Sure, go ahead. Korben gets ready.
COP 1: We're sending someone in who's authorized to negotiate.
KORBEN: Anyone else want to negotiate?
COP 2: ( to another Cop ) Where'd he learn to negotiate like that?
MUNRO: From us! The President gives Munro a hard look.
CORNELIUS: You're probably very angry with me and I quite understand. But I want you to know I'm fighting for a noble cause.
KORBEN: Yeah, I know. to save the world. but right now all I want to do is save Leeloo.
CORNELIUS: Leeloo's in trouble?
KORBEN: When is she not in trouble?
CORNELIUS: Uh.. Have you tried the Diva's suite? Korben realizes that Cornelius in probably right.
POLICEMAN: More trouble?
ZORG: Nothing I can't fix myself. He brings up the ZF1 and wipes out the garage.
KORBEN: ( loudly ) Up in the airshaft, Leeloo has heard him.
LEELOO: Her voice is too weak, Korben can't hear her.
LOC RHOD: Korben man. what the hell is this? Korben gives the bomb a prefunctory glance.
KORBEN: A molecular bomb. Three minutes left on the timer.
LOC RHOD: ( increasingly worried ) And, uh, what're these numbers clicking Probably the time remaining before it Cornelius smiles and continues his search.
CORNELIUS: Probably the time remaining before it Cornelius smiles and continues his search.
LOC RHOD: ( weak smile ) You're just saying that to scare me! Right? If it was a bomb, an alarm would've gone off. There's bomb detectors in all these hotels! A general alarm goes off. Loc Rhod is crushed.
LOC RHOD: Maybe we oughta be going, what do you think?
KORBEN: Not without Leeloo. Loc Rhod cannot take his eyes off the bomb.
LOC RHOD: Like D-Man, I hate to bother you but uh, like, we're down to 2 minutes here. Korben breathes out, bothered. He turns his attention to the bomb.
KORBEN: It's the latest model.. I've never seen one before. it works off a magnetic coded card. Let's see if I can rig it up.
LOC RHOD: Hey! What are you doing? The bomb! Korben drags the desk over, jumps on it and pokes his head in the torn up airshaft He spots Leeloo who gives him a weak smile.
KORBEN: Don't worry, I'm here now! He pulls her toward him, helps her out of the shaft and stretches her out on the desk.
KORBEN: Just relax. I've got the Stones. Everything's going to be fine. 30 seconds left on the timer.
LOC RHOD: ( falling to pieces ) Like Korben, can I have 30 seconds of your time here?
KORBEN: ( to Leeloo ) I'll be right back. Korben dashes over to the bomb. He is stopped by the barrel of the ZF1. Zorg, in person, holding a magnetic card.
ZORG: ( smiling ) Allow me. Zorg slips a small magnetic card in the bomb, it starts to count down from 5 minutes.
ZORG: Just for the fun of it. Loc Rhod faints.
ZORG: Well, what do we have here? Is this Korben Dallas? The famous winner of the Gemini Croquette contest? Or is this Korben Dallas from Special Section sent by old Lindberg himself. Korben doesn't reply.
ZORG: .In any event, whoever you are, I was glad to meet you. Zorg fires at Korben who figures he is dead. Nothing. Zorg tries again. Nada. The clip is empty. Zorg starts to panic.
ZORG: .A 3000 round clip! I didn't fire off 3000 rounds. did I?
KORBEN: Don't you know how to count. It's not all that hard. Watch! Korben punches him square in the face, shows him his index.
KORBEN: One! That's for trying to kill me! Second Punch.
KORBEN: Two! That's for firing me! Three! That's for pushing around a priest! And the rest is for what you did to my wife! Korben pummels him mercilessly.
KORBEN: We're outta here! He picks Leeloo up in his arms. Cornelius grabs Loc Rhod and gives him a resounding slap.
LOC RHOD: Are you nuts, Father? That hurts! I can't feel my teeth.
CORNELIUS: Doesn't matter all you need are your 238 EXT. FHLOSTON PARADISE - NIGHT The lifeboats launch from the hotel and fly out into space.
ZORG: I didn't fire three thousand rounds.
LOC RHOD: You know how to fly this thing?
KORBEN: ( concentrating ) It's like a cab isn't it?
VOICE: 30 seconds.
KORBEN: Anyone know how to release the lines on this crate?
ZORG: ( loudly ) Maximum Protection. A mauve-colored magnetic shield closes around Zorg like an indestructible 245 INT. ZFX200 COCKPIT Cornelius and Loc Rhod are bent over the buttons looking for a way to release the lines.
KORBEN: Found it? Loc Rhod searches frantically.
LOC RHOD: I don't even know what I'm looking for!
KORBEN: Fuck it! Hold tight! Korben slams the throttle into full forward. The ship roars away ripping the lines to shreds. Loc Rhod is thrown to the rear of the ship.
KORBEN: Solid little jobs, aren't they?
LOC RHOD: ( broadcasting, exhausted ) Dear listeners, your favorite DJ is alive and kicking. It's seven o'clock and time for the news. Tune in tomorrow for another adventure.
LOC RHOD: ( to the others ) The best show I ever did!
ZORG: How's that? Can you hear me better Yes, Mr. Zorg, I hear you perfectly! So, how was the concert?
ZORG: Who gives a shit! I didn't come here to listen to music! Listen up instead of running off at the mouth! The batteries on my phone are almost gone.
ZORG: Dispatch me another ZFX200 immediately. Someone stole mine.
ZORG: I'm not at the hotel!
ZORG: BEEPER ( O.S. ) Battery dead. Zorg is all alone, lost, in the middle of the glacier.
ZORG: ( to himself ) Stay calm.. stay calm.
MUNRO: Major Dallas has the Five Elements on board. The priest is guiding them directly to the temple. President Lindberg closes his eyes in relief.
PRESIDENT: Thank God! We've been saved! A SCIENTIST rushes in.
SCIENTIST: Mr. President.
PRESIDENT: Yes? Now, what?
PRESIDENT: What do you mean, "its advancing"?!
COMMANDER: It's not only advancing, but it's moving at incredible speed! We're having trouble following it.
PRESIDENT: ( to Scientist ) .And. Do you have any idea where it's The scientist is hard to put to answer, he shakes his head.
KORBEN: ( gentle, loving ) Leeloo smiles, weakly, feverish.
LEELOO: I'm so very sad.
KORBEN: Why? We did pretty well, wouldn't you say?
LEELOO: Five hundred wars. Arms. Drugs. Everything you create is used to destroy.
KORBEN: I told you not to read all that crap!
LEELOO: Protect life. Until death. Her eyes close and she falls back asleep. Korben is worried. She seems so depressed. Cornelius enters.
CORNELIUS: There's a General on the phone. His name's Mambo, I think.
MUNRO: Munro here. President Lindberg wants to talk to you. Hold the line. The President clears his throat and takes the phone.
PRESIDENT: Major, first off, I want to thank you, in my name and in the name of the 257 INT. ZFX200 / PRESIDENT'S OFFICE For the praiseworthy courage you have shown us! I'd like to congratulate General Munro for his choice. He found the ideal man for such a.
KORBEN: ( to the point ) So now what's the problem? The President drops into his armchair and sighs.
PRESIDENT: There's a ball of fire 1,200 miles in diameter heading straight for the earth. And we have no idea how to stop it! .That's the problem. Korben thinks fast. The Priest is with him. The Five Elements are on How much time before the collision? The President queries the scientist with a nod of the head.
KORBEN: How much time before the collision? The President queries the scientist with a nod of the head.
SCIENTIST: If its speed remains constant. in an hour and 57 minutes.
DAVID: You're all safe. Thanks be to God!
CORNELIUS: Later, David! Later! There's not a minute to lose! The small group enters the chapel.
KORBEN: Excuse me, Father, but. could we pray Cornelius bends the cross and pushes it down. A mechanism is set off lowering the altar like a service elevator. The altar descends amid rocky walls.
MUNRO: They just landed in the desert.
PRESIDENT: ( sweating ) How much time is left?
SCIENTIST: About nine minutes. President Lindberg has trouble breathing.
CORNELIUS: ( panic-stricken ) Uh, this one. must be water! It's obvious he doesn't know where to put it.
KORBEN: Don't tell me you don't know how all this works?
CORNELIUS: Theoretically, yes! The four Stones form the beam and the Fifth Element is supposed to stand in the middle there, but. I don't have the reference book. I've never seen the Stones work! Korben can't believe his ears. He tears the Stone out of Cornelius' hand and studies the inscriptions. He goes over to one of the four bases the stones rest on and tries to figure it out. The symbol of air is on the Stone, the same as on the base.
KORBEN: Match the symbols! Korben places the first Stone and picks up another one. Cornelius has found the symbol for water. Loc Rhod sits down. He is very tired.
LOC RHOD: What is this some kinda game? Like Korben pulls him to his feet and sticks a Stone in his hands.
KORBEN: No. It's much simpler. If we don't figure out where these Stones go in five minutes, we're all dead! Think you got it? Loc Rhod's got it and runs over to put in his Stone. The four Stones are all in place but nothing happens.
KORBEN: There's no light! You told me there were supposed to be four beams of light.
CORNELIUS: ( lost ) Yes, of course, but. The Stones are shut! They have to be open for it to work.
KORBEN: And you don't know how they open, is that what you are saying?
CORNELIUS: That's what I'm saying.
KORBEN: Leeloo? The Stones! We have to open them! How does it work?
LEELOO: ( feeble ) The wind blows. the fire burns.
KORBEN: I know all that, Leeloo! I'm talking about the Stones.
LEELOO: .The rain falls. Korben is desperate. Leeloo's too weak, he won't get anything more out of her. He darts over to a Stone and turns it over and over.
KORBEN: The rain falls. the wind blows? Loc Rhod stands in front of his Stone looking at Korben.
KORBEN: Try and figure out how this fucking thing opens, instead of staring at me like that! Loc Rhod starts feeling the Stone all around.
LOC RHOD: ( afraid ) I'm looking, I'm looking.
SCIENTIST: .Three minutes.
MUNRO: We've lost contact with them.
LOC RHOD: .we'll never make it. He sighs. Three hooks pop off the Stone. Loc Rhod can't believe his It. it moved! Korben! Korben! Korben rushes over, looks at the Stone. Hooks are undone.
LOC RHOD: It. it moved! Korben! Korben! Korben rushes over, looks at the Stone. Hooks are undone.
KORBEN: What did you say? What did you do?
LOC RHOD: Nothing! Swear to God, I didn't do Look, you did something that set it off. Try to remember. Concentrate. Tell me exactly what you did!! Loc Rhod tries to duplicate the same movement.
KORBEN: Look, you did something that set it off. Try to remember. Concentrate. Tell me exactly what you did!! Loc Rhod tries to duplicate the same movement.
LOC RHOD: I was like this. With my hands here and. I said, "We'll never make it!" That's all! Nothing happens.
KORBEN: Is that all?
LOC RHOD: Yeah. then I sighed. like this. Loc Rhod sighs, really depressed this time. The Stone opens even more. Korben's got it.
KORBEN: The wind! The wind blows. Korben blows on the Stone which immediately opens revealing a patch of blue sky with some miniature clouds floating around inside. A yellow beam pops up like a ray of sunlight, like Korben's smile.
KORBEN: Quickly, everyone on a Stone! Water for water! Fire for fire! Earth for earth! The two men move fast. Korben on the 4th Stone: Earth. He grabs a fistful of earth and throws it on the Stone. A miniature patch of green appears and immediately forms a green beam. Cornelius wipes his forehead with a scarf and wrings it out over the Stone. It opens revealing a patch of miniature raging sea. A blue beam appears. Loc Rhod has a problem.
LOC RHOD: ( shaking ) I don't have a light. I stopped smoking last week! If we'd come a bit sooner. Korben pats his pockets, he comes up with a box of matches. There's only one left.
KORBEN: Don't breathe. Loc Rhod and Cornelius hold their breath. Korben strikes the match. A small flame appears on the tip. A breeze goes through the room. Korben feels like he's got TNT in his hands. He approaches the flame to the Stone. The flame twists, dims, flickers .but holds on. The Stone opens. A patch of miniature fire appears. Korben sighs, snuffs out the match. The fourth beam, a red one, immediately forms.
SCIENTIST: Two more minutes. The President shuts his eyes. His lids move in prayer.
KORBEN: It's up to you now, Angel!
LEELOO: I'm so tired.
KORBEN: You can sleep tomorrow. come on.
LEELOO: I want to sleep. forever.
KORBEN: Leeloo! Listen to me! I'll take you on a vacation afterwards! A real vacation, this time, for as long as you want. Come on! You can do it! Korben slowly releases Leeloo and steps back from the altar. Leeloo can barely stand in the center of the four beams. An indistinct white beam begins to form around her, starts to rise.
CORNELIUS: Come on Leeloo! Come on! The beam loses its intensity. Leeloo crumples to the floor.
SCIENTIST: It'll be entering the atmosphere in one 275 INT. CHAPEL The heat in the temple is unbearable. All the walls start to ooze the same horrible black slimy liquid seen at Zorg's. A drop of liquid falls to the temple floor and begins to smoke, eating away at it like acid. Loc Rhod has to dodge another drop of the stuff. Korben quickly straightens Leeloo up and puts her back in the center of the beams.
KORBEN: Leeloo! If you don't get on with the program we're all gonna die! And that's not on my agenda for today. Leeloo wraps her arms around Korben's neck.
LEELOO: ( weak ) What's the use of saving lives. when you see what you do with them!
KORBEN: You're right but there are lots of good things. beautiful things.
LEELOO: .Like love.
KORBEN: But I don't know love. I'm like a machine programmed to save other people's lives but never to have one of my own.
LEELOO: But I don't know love. I'm like a machine programmed to save other people's lives but never to have one of my own.
LEELOO: I have thousands of memories but none of them are mine. There is no need for me other than this. I'm immortal but I have no life.
KORBEN: Yes, you do! I need you. More than you can imagine! Stand up straight!
LEELOO: Why?. Why would you need me?
KORBEN: ( to himself ) Tell her, for God's sake! A bit of the black acid falls on Loc Rhod's shirt setting it on fire. He rips if off.
CORNELIUS: ( to himself ) Tell her, for God's sake! A bit of the black acid falls on Loc Rhod's shirt setting it on fire. He rips if off.
KORBEN: Leeloo has tears in her eyes. The heat is overpowering. Black acid is
LEELOO: Tell me.
KORBEN: I love you. Despite her fatigue, Leeloo smiles broadly.
LEELOO: Now you're allowed to kiss me. - Korben wraps his arms around her and kisses her like he's never kissed anybody before. - The white beam, the Divine Light, immediately forms around Leeloo and Korben. - The stopwatch hits zero. - The Absolute Beam explodes from the top of the pyramid and heads straight into the sky zapping the fireball smack in the middle, slowing it down. - Korben and Leeloo kiss like there was no tomorrow. - The beam hardens and slowly solidifies the Evil Planet. Inaudible screeches escape from the dying planet. Screeches of terrifying pain as if a million souls were dying. - Streams of black acid spurt from the pyramid and solidify like brilliant stalactites.
SCIENTIST: The planet seems to have stopped at. 62 miles from impact.
LOC RHOD: This guy is a killer with the babes. I knew it from the moment I laid eyes on him. Cornelius and Loc Rhod burst out laughing. Korben and Leeloo keep on 283 INT. LABORATORY We are in the Nucleological Laboratory that gave birth to Leeloo in the beginning of our story. The President enters the lab followed by a group of officials in ceremonial dress.
MUNRO: Mr. President, let me introduce you to Professor Mactilburgh, who runs the center.
MACTILBURGH: It's an honor to receive you. Mr. President.
PRESIDENT: ( beaming ) Yes.. Well? Where are our two heroes?
MACTILBURGH: They were so tired from their ordeal that we put them in the reactor this morning..
PRESIDENT: I have 19 more meetings after this one Of course.. Let me see if they're revived.
PROFESSOR: Of course.. Let me see if they're revived.
AIDE: We go live in one minute, Mr. President. Mactilburgh goes to the reactor and opens a small slot which allows him to see what is going on under the blue shield. Leeloo and Korben are naked, arms wrapped around each other, kissing and probably engaged in hoppi hoppa. Mactilburgh looks troubled.
MACTILBURGH: I.. uh.. they need five more minutes, Mr. President. The President, pressed for time, looks over to his aide who in struggling with a phone call.
AIDE: No ma'am. I tried. No ma'am.
PRESIDENT: Who is it?
AIDE: Some woman. claims she's Korben's Give it here. The President takes the phone and goes to the window.
PRESIDENT: Give it here. The President takes the phone and goes to the window.
PRESIDENT: Mrs. Dallas, this in the President. On behalf of the entire Federation, I would like to thank.
THE END: Writers : Luc Besson
