MUSIC (V.O.): 'From the Town of Bedrock They're a page right Out of his-tor-y -- '
TORTOISE: (under his breath) You can forget about a tip for Christmas...
LITTLE MAMMOTH: (sotto) Oh, my aching sinuses...
RADIO WOODPECKER: (sotto) I hate this job... There's not even a health plan...
RADIO WOODPECKER: (deeper "on-air" voice) Good morning, Bedrock. This is station B-R-O-K with the morning weather and news...
RADIO WOODPECKER (O.S.): It will be fair and mild through the weekend, continuing for the next eight hundred years, followed by cooling breezes and a protracted ice age...
FRED: (with genuine charm) Wil-ma. Wil-ma? How about a great big good morning kiss for your Freddy-weddy?
FRED: Dino!   Dino, cut it out -- !
RADIO WOODPECKER (O.S.): In the news, Bedrock civic and business leaders met yesterday to discuss the growing kibble crisis.
FRED: Dino, that's enough -- here, look, Daddy has a nice dino bone for you, just please stop it --
RADIO WOODPECKER (O.S.): In other news, Bedrock police report that the Xenosaurus has struck again! Yes, the fiercesome intruder was sighted in the Bedrock Hills for the third time this month. Outlying shops and residencies report extensive looting and property destruction...
WILMA: Fred, stop playing with Dino and sit down. Your breakfast's getting cold.
FRED: (trying again) -- Gosh, look at that adorable little female dino --
FRED: -- That animal's gonna kill me with kindness. Do you know we're out of dino treats?
WILMA: So is everybody else in Bedrock. That kibble crisis is getting worse every day.
WILMA: I'm afraid Dino's going to have to manage on leftovers from Pebbles and me.
FRED: (sitting down) And what's wrong with my leftovers?
WILMA: I'll let you know when I see some.
RADIO WOODPECKER (O.S.): (finishing up) ... Scientists from B.C. University report that the footprints of the Xenosaurus match no known animal.
WILMA: Of course not, baby.
FRED: That's right, sweetheart. The only thing that's gonna eat you up is -- me!
PEBBLES: (giggling, calming) I'm still a little scared...
FRED: Pebbles, don't worry. These stories are very exaggerated. Like, you know, the boogyman? There's no such thing as a huge, inhuman reptile that attacks without warning --
FRED: -- Oh, look, everybody, the mailman is here --
LOBSTER: Well, it beats working in a seafood restaurant...
FRED: Arnold! Arnold! Don't aim at the house -- please, not at the house --
WILMA: Lucky it wasn't the Sunday paper.
FRED: (slight smile) Yeah.   What else can go wrong?
BETTY: (wiping their mouths) Come on, kids. Time for nursery school.
PEBBLES: 'Bye-bye, Daddy.
FRED: 'Bye, little sweetheart. (as Wilma clears her throat) 'Bye, big sweetheart.
BARNEY: Nice morning, huh, Fred?
FRED: What's nice about it?
BARNEY: Heh, hey. That Arnold's got a real arm on him, don't he?
FRED: This is the third ragtop this year ... say, shouldn't you be at work?
BARNEY: Ah, well, that appliance store and me, we kinda had a little adjustment --
FRED: You got fired, didn't ya?
FRED: Yeah, I know, I know, those crazy inventions of yours. Be honest with me, Barn... tell me one thing you invented that really caught on.
BARNEY: I invented fire.
FRED: (pause) You invented fire?
BARNEY: I told you that, Fred. But the coal conglomerate ripped me off. The case is still in court, but meanwhile I got lotsa other ideas --
FRED: Yeah, but did any one of them ever put bread on the table? How long are you and Betty gonna live on those penny-ante royalties you get?
FRED: If you ask me, pal, you're just blowing smoke up your own volcano...
BARNEY: Maybe, Fred.   But first...
BARNEY: Let me try some of that smoke on your car.
BARNEY: (as he works) -- See, the first step, we make a mold of the old car hood, smooth out the dent in the clay --
BARNEY: -- Add some lava granules... some woca leaves... juice from two coo-coo berries...
FRED: (impressed) Two coo-coo berries?   You made of money, Barney?
BARNEY: Anything for a pal, Fred -- a lump of coal... bamboo sawdust... eucalyptus sap... a touch of the La Brea tarbrush -- and -- voila.
FRED: Barney, why don't you try inventing a brain for yourself! Look at what you did to --
BETTY: (in mid-speech, driving) ... Oh, it's not that I'm complaining, Wilma. I mean, Barney's sweet, but... well, he's just not cut out to punch a clock. And he's such a dreamer, you think he ever once picked up a hammer and chisel and tried to balance a checkbook?
BETTY: No, Barney just keeps looking for that coo-coo berry pie in the sky, and I don't want to pop his balloon by talking about the price of mastodon ribs.
MRS. GRANITE: (approaching) Mrs. Rubble, Mrs. Flintstone, I wanted to thank you personally.
BETTY: You're welcome, Mrs. Granite. But we wipe their mouths every day.
MRS. GRANITE: No, no, I mean for all your wonderful support the past few years. It's parents like you that make me think twice about retiring.
MRS. GRANITE: On the other hand...
WILMA: We're really going to miss you, too, Mrs. Granite.
MRS. GRANITE: Have you found another school for the children?
BETTY: We're still shopping around.
WILMA: Fortunately, we're both --
WILMA & BETTY: (they've done this routine before) -- Professional shoppers!
BARNEY: Not bad, eh? After it cures for an hour or so, it's solid as a rock.
FRED: Okay, you fixed a dented hood. But you call that a living? Face it, pal, this is the Stone Age, and it's a dino eat dino world. You want my advice?
BARNEY: Did I ever?
BARNEY: You're a big man anywhere, Fred --
FRED: I'm serious, pal. Me and Mr. Slate are just like this --
FRED: -- just like that. I know, I know -- you're not a clock-punching guy -- but face it, Barney -- it's time to grow up and put your nose to the grindstone, batten down the hatches and join the ratasaurus race with the rest of us. (meaningfully) It's time to retire those dreams.
FRED: Barney.   Look.
BARNEY: Hey.   Lava Lane.
FRED: Remember the old days, Barn? We used to race our go-carts here to impress the girls.
BARNEY: (wistful) Yeah, those were the days... we usta dream about coming back here some day with a real car and goin' for the goldrock...!
FRED: Hey. Since when do I have to be consistent?
FELDSPAR: Well, Flintstone, looks like today's the day.
FRED: Sergeant Feldspar, I... I wasn't speeding... honest...
FELDSPAR: Gravel. Get me the radar reading and I'll show you how we deal with scofflaws.
RADAR BIRD: Whoa!   Wings, do your stuff -- !
FRED: Well, Sergeant, if you don't have a radar reading, I guess we'll -- (quickly) -- justbeonourway -- !
FELDSPAR: Flintstone!   Flintstone, come back here -- !
BETTY: Morris, what on earth is going on? You giving away Bronto filets?
MORRIS: Ah, my two loveliest customers. It's this darn kibble crisis, Mrs. R... people are buying everything I got to feed their dinos...
MRS. SLATE: Young man, if you're through flirting, I'd like some service.
MORRIS: Of course, Mrs. Slate.   Just take a number.
WILMA: Ah, hello, Mrs. Slate.
WILMA: (prompting) We met at the quarry picnic?
MRS. SLATE: Oh, of course. Mrs. Flintstein.
BETTY: Oh, I'd like some ground mammoth patties and uh... some dodo drumsticks.
MORRIS: Gino?   We got any dodo bird?
GINO: There's one left -- and it's the last one!
MORRIS: Good. (handing him the note) Give it to Mrs. Rubble along with this.
MORRIS: (turning to Betty) How about you, Mrs. F?
WILMA: I just need a few things for Fred.
MORRIS: 'Fred...'? (calling into the back) David! Herman! Get Rob and BoBo and tell 'em to bring the big dolly!
VOICE FROM BACK (O.S.): Flintstone again, huh?
MORRIS: You got it. Now then... Mrs. Slate? (pointing at the limo outside the shop) You're in a no parking zone there.
MRS. SLATE: I want a nice fresh, juicy chickensaurus, Morris. And not one you've had laying around on the shelf. I mean fresh.
MORRIS: Mrs. Slate, we're kind of busy now --
MRS. SLATE: I don't care if you're busy. What I care about is my adorable little grand nephew. He's staying with me for the summer and I intend to make his favorite dish... Southern fried chickensaurus! Now I want a fresh chickensaurus and I want it now!
MORRIS: Boys, you heard her... she said fresh.
MRS. SLATE: (oblivious of the trouble) Morris, while you're at it, I'd like it plucked --
MRS. SLATE: My car -- !
FRED: Barney, you won't regret this -- hiya, Al -- fixing dents in cars is one thing, a career's another. Here, you're getting in on the ground floor of the first footstep of a new leaf -- hi, Wally, how's the old backhand? And with a guy like me ta show you the ropes, you can skip all the red tape, all the malarky, all the dino doo --
GIRL: (New York accent) Hi, Mr. Flintstone.
FRED: Hiya, Shirley. This is my very special neighbor and pal Barney Rubble. He needs an application form, okay?
GIRL: Anything for you, Mr. Flintstone.
GIRL: Here you go. (smiling) Thanks again for the football tickets. My boyfriend and I both liked them.
FRED: My pleasure, Shirl.    Anytime.
GIRL: Okay. But do you think next time we could go to the same game?
FRED: (confidently) No problem.
FRED: Well, Barn, what did I tell you? When you're in with Flintstone, you're in like Flint.
BARNEY: Gee, Fred. I knew you were a big shot. I just didn't know how big.
LAVA: Uncle, if you'll look at this unit cost projection... it intersects here with --
SLATE: -- how'd you like my fist to intersect with your nose? I've told you a hundred times, don't call me uncle in the office! Now, I didn't arrange your scholarship to Harvrock University so you could waste my time! So stop beating around the bushasaurus and get to the bottom slime!
LAVA: You'll be bankrupt in six months.
BARNEY: (to himself) Social Security number... dependents... 'how learned of job' ... newspaper ad, carrier pigeon... (writing) ... Personal reference...
PYRITE: Way ta go, Pilty baby. Five bucks says you can't hit one on the fly.
PILTDOWN: (calling up) Yer on, Pyrite --
FRED: Not again...
FRED: All right, Piltdown, that's enough! You're endangering your fellow workers!
PILTDOWN: Yeah?   Sez who?
FRED: Says me, Fred Flintstone -- shop steward of Amalgamated Neolithic Workers 101.
PILTDOWN: Yeah? Well, A.N.W. one-oh-one gives us workers a snack break. So... (a nasty grin) ... I'm breakin' some snacks.
FRED: Whoa, whoa, big fella --
FRED: (calling up to the cab) You're on report, Piltdown! If it's up to me you'll be pushing a wheelbarrow!
PILTDOWN: (leaping down) You've been asking for this, Flintstone... I'm gonna kick your fat butt --
FRED: Fat butt? Hold me back, Barney -- (sotto, very sincere) -- Barney, hold me back --
PILTDOWN: Why should we?
FRED: Yeah.  That's right. (realizing, a glare at Barney) I mean -- this ain't over, Piltdown. (turning, shouting) Come on, guys. Let's clean up the mess.
SLATE: Bankrupt?   Are you crazy?
LAVA: It's all here in hack and slice. When you committed to this housing development the price of dino kibble was a few clams per ton. Since then, it's gone up a hundredfold. (indicating the model) You can't build a project like this without the heavy equipment dinos, and we can't afford to feed those dinos.
SLATE: I'm two months behind schedule, my option's running out on the land and Donald Trumprock is just waiting to jump in and steal the whole deal ... meanwhile that damn union's on my back, hell, they'll probably want an eighty hour week or something... (frustrated) There's got to be an answer...
LAVA: (worried) Sounds like a worker's comp claim if I ever heard one...
FRED: Barney!   Grab that line!   Hurry!
FRED: Oh boy.    Goodbye pension fund --
LAVA: Uncle, Uncle, speak to me --
SLATE: (sitting up) I'm over here, you moron -- and don't call me 'Uncle'!
FRED: Barney, shut up -- (turning) Mr. Slate -- Mr. Slate -- are you all right?
SLATE: (eying the men) For five years Slate Construction has had the finest safety record in Bedrock. (pacing, angry) Our workers are trained in first aid, our equipment is first rate and our dinos are worm free. And then something like this happens ... I want to know how!
SLATE: Shut up! (in the sudden silence) I want one person to answer me: (waving the car hood) Who's responsible for this?
PILTDOWN: (quickly) It was Flintstone, Mr. Slate!
PYRITE: That's right, Mr. Slate, it was Flintstone!
BARNEY: That's a lie, Mr. Slate!
SLATE: Who are you?
SLATE: (pushing Barney aside) Flintstone, I have just one thing to say to you --
SLATE: (pumping his hand) Congratulations!
SLATE: This stuff you had on your car is the most incredible building material I've seen in thirty years in the construction business! (testing it) It's strong -- (twirling it) -- Light -- (bending it) -- Resilient --
SLATE: Where on earth did you get it?
FRED: Oh, it's ah, just something I whipped up in the old garage workshop -- (quickly) -- with a little help from my buddy Barney, right, Barn?
BARNEY: Well, actually, Fred, it was the other way ar--
SLATE: The rest of you men go back to work. I want to talk to Flintstone and the personal reference alone. Come on, move, move...
SLATE: (a man in love) Light  as a Pterodactyl feather... why, a  child could handle this... Lava,  we could cut construction costs  in half... in quarters... in uh...  whatchacallit --
LAVA: (patiently) Eighths --
SLATE: Eighths, right. Flintstone, what do you call this stuff?
FRED: Well, Mr. Slate, I call it -- (hesitating, sotto) -- Barney, what do I call it?
BARNEY: (sotto) Fibrerock, Fred...
FRED: -- I call it Fibrerock Fred -- ! (realizing) I mean, ah, 'Fibrerock'!
SLATE: (rolling it over his tongue) 'Fibrerock'? 'Fibrerock'? (playing with it) 'Fib-bre-rock' --
SLATE'S STAFF: (instantly reversing themselves) Love it... great... has a nice ring... says it all, you know? (Etc...)
SLATE: (to Lava) You see this, Lava? All those courses of yours at Harvrock University, and who saves my bacon? Two simple-minded run-of-the-mill nobodies.
BARNEY: Gee, thanks, Mr. Slate.
SLATE: Boys, this is a small step for Slate Construction... a giant step for all mankind.
SLATE: (dramatically) The Stone Age is over!    Let the Fibre Age begin!
MRS. SLATE: (getting out) Not at all. I'm used to being driven around.
CHILDREN: 'La hachette de ma tante est sur le roche de mon oncle -- '
HEADMISTRESS: (coming over, gushing) Madame Mrs. Slate, bonjour! Welcome to L'ecole des Enfants Prehistorique Haute Superior!
MRS. SLATE: Thank you, Marie. (showing a rock receipt) I ordered the hors d'oeuvres for the junior talent show. They were out of Ceolanth caviar so I got Mastodon brie instead. Oh, ah, these are my, uh, friends, Wilma Flintstein --
WILMA: Flintstone --
MRS. SLATE: -- oh, it used to be Flintstein -- ? And this is ah, Becky... Betty!
HEADMISTRESS: Enchante.
WILMA: I'm sure.
HEADMISTRESS: (waving a hand) Well, Madame Slate, as you can see, we remain ze creme de la creme in the croissant of life known as Bedrock. Now, your leetle gran' nephew will be wiz us for two weeks, no? (opening a drawer) Here is ze application for him. An' mais oui, he weel participate in zee annual talent show, naturalment?
HEADMISTRESS: An' your friends perhaps would like zum school applications for zere enfants?
MRS. SLATE: (amused) Them? Oh, Marie, really, you don't understand --
BETTY: (suddenly) That's right, you don't understand. My husband's business manager usually handles this sort of thing, but I don't mind.
BETTY: I know Bam-Bam -- (correcting herself) -- pardonez-moi, 'Bem-Bem' will love attending your school and performing in the talent show. Thank you oh so much.
WILMA: Let me have one of those, too.   For ma petite Pebbles.
BARNEY: Gee, Fred, I don't believe it. Eight hours ago I didn't have a job and now look -- I got 1/2 of one percent of the after-taxes after-expenses net breakage profits on Fibrerock!
FRED: Just be thankful I was there to go over the fine print. (full of himself) It's like I told you this morning -- There's something noble about a man digging in with his hands and doing an honest day's work. Once you file those dreams under 'old business' and put your nose to the plow, well, the world is your oyster. And was I right?
BARNEY: No, Fred, you weren't. I didn't nose any grindstones and you didn't shoulder a wheel. We just hung out together and everything that happened was a total accident.
FRED: (after a moment) Details, Barney, details... (smiling) I just can't wait to see the girls' faces when we tell 'em the news...
BETTY: Unless they were forced to go bowling again. Remember that time a burglar pointed a gun at them and said, 'go bowling right now'?
WILMA: Betty, sometimes you're a little too gullible --
BETTY: Don't tell me. I still can't believe what I did today...
WILMA: No kidding. (indicating the forms) Do you have any idea of what the enrollment fee is? And get this... it's non-refundable --
BETTY: I know, I know! I just couldn't stand that woman's attitude! But we had to find a new school anyway, and there we were... the next thing I knew, I was in over my head... but why did you jump in, too?
WILMA: Oh, she was getting to me too with all that mastodon snort about her little nephew... and...
BETTY: And?
WILMA: And... if a friend can't help you do something stupid, who can?
BETTY: What do we tell the boys?
WILMA: What's wrong with the truth?
WILMA: (pause) Maybe we could rephrase it...
FRED AND BARNEY: Surprise!
BETTY: Flowers?
WILMA: Rock candy?   That's nice, but... why?
FRED: Why? Oh, me and Barn, we suddenly realized that we had a little spare change.
WILMA: (sotto) Not anymore you don't...
BARNEY: (presenting flowers) Betty, these are for you. For sticking beside me during the tough times, and well... for making a little guy feel like he was ten feet tall.
BETTY: Aw, Barney... I... I don't deserve these. I did something really stupid today.
BARNEY: Hey. Fred does something stupid every day and I still love him.
FRED: Noogy, noogy, ha, ha -- !
FRED: Ready when you are. (noticing the label) Hey, '1'... a good year.
WILMA: Fred, there's no easy way to say this so --
BETTY: Boys... did you see... the dollar signs there at the bottom?
WILMA: The non-refundable dollar signs?
BARNEY: Plenty more where that came from.
FRED: We see your dollar signs, ladies... and...
FRED: ... we raise them.
WILMA: Betty... these... these look... real --
FRED: You bet they're real, sweetheart. They're as real as... as... well, as real as -- (embracing the group) -- the best darn friends and neighbors in the whole world.
BARNEY: Yeah. And nothing's ever gonna change that... right, Fred?
FRED: (emotionally) Right, pal o'mine.
HERDMASTER (V.O.): Attention, fellow Water Buffaloes...
HERDMASTER: Brothers, your attention!
ENTIRE GROUP: Ack-ack-a-dack!
HERDMASTER: (banging gavel) This meeting of the Water Buffaloes is now in session. Sergeant-at-Arms, have we got any old business?
BARNEY: Indeed we do, Brother Herdmaster. Tonight we are to hear speeches from prospective candidates for Lodge offices, such as good old Fred and some other guys.
HERDMASTER: Brother Piltdown: You have given the Cry of the Gelded Buffalo at the Poisoned Water Hole. Do you wish to file an objection?
PILTDOWN: You bet I do. How come Flintstone is 'good old Fred' and me and the other candidates are just 'some other guys'?
PYRITE: Yeah, how come?
FRED: (reading, at first wooden, then confident) Brother Buffaloes, honored Herdmaster, Junior Bucks and Apprentice Antlers, a great good evening to you all. Ahem. As you know, our organization has survived difficult times that have seen the extinction of such other lodges as the Order of Whooping Cranes and Brotherhood of Giant Sloths. But we here have come through the croo ... the crux...
BARNEY: (hissing) -- crucible --
LODGE MEMBER: Congratulations, Fred.
FRED: Hey, when you're hot you're hot... boys, lemme buy a round of drinks for everyone.
BARNEY: Thanks, Fred, but here at the lodge drinks are free.
FRED: (during this) Here you go, boys, nice and frosty...
"BOTTLE OPENER" CREATURE (LIZARD): (aside) Go ahead, laugh. If I had a good orthodontist, my life woulda been different...
FRED: (raising drink) Well, here's to...
BARNEY: 'Here's to the Water Buffalo and their next Herdmaster... Fred'!
FRED: Aw, gee, Barn... you shouldn't say that... (winking) ... at least not till after next week's election!
LODGE MEMBER: Fred, what was all that stuff in your speech about the workplace? I thought the only decision you made there was how many lunches to eat --
FRED: Well, Harry, it just so happens that old Fred is moving up in the world... Boys, you're looking at Mr. Slate's new partner.
PILTDOWN: You and Slate? Who are you kidding, Flintstone? The only partner you got is hanging over your belt.
FRED: Prepare to eat those words, Piltdown.
PILTDOWN: -- If I don't, you will --
FRED: (a tight smile) Gentlemen, my card --
LODGE MEMBERS: (AD LIB, impressed) Hey, way ta go, Fred... Whoa, gonna switch from a hard hat to a top hat, Freddy boy...?
PYRITE: (examining the card) Ah, it's probably a phony...
BARNEY: Gee, Fred, how come I didn't get any business cards?
FRED: Barney, it's all part of the plan. (to the others) Yes, boys, you see, I went up to my pal, Mister Slate and single- handedly made him an offer he couldn't refuse --
FRED: -- 'Freddy boy,' he sez to me, 'We gotta talk turkey -- '
BARNEY: Fred, we gotta talk turkey --
FRED: That's right -- just like that --
BARNEY: Fred -- !
FRED: Ah, excuse us, boys...
BARNEY: Fred... what's this single-handed stuff? I distinctly remember at least four hands and two of them were mine.
FRED: (lowered voice) Barney, we could tell everyone how you invented this Fibrerock stuff, how Slate and Lava found out about it by accident and all, but what would that be?
BARNEY: The truth?
FRED: This is big business, Barney. We can't start telling the truth, it'd create the wrong impression. Think about all the really big deals in history -- back to the beginning of recorded time.
BARNEY: Okay.
FRED: What do they all have in common? (as Barney is stumped) I'll tell you. A front man. A guy who's out in the public eye running the point, fighting the crowds... and meanwhile... back in the corner is the silent partner.
BARNEY: I never knew that.
FRED: That's because the silent partner is always silent.
BARNEY: I get it. I got the brains, but you just pretend to have them.
FRED: Attaboy!
BETTY: Barney, wait a minute...
BETTY: There. That looks more like a captain of industry.
BARNEY: Thanks, Betty. What would I do without you?
BETTY: Hmm. Probably run off to the tropics with one of those executive secretaries.
WILMA: Fred! Wait a minute! There's something wrong with your lunch --
FRED: ("weighing it") Yeah... it does feel a little light...
WILMA: Fit for a king... my king.
FRED: Aw, Wilma... lookit, it's got buckles, a strap, a lock --
FRED: -- Baby, you're the greatest.
WILMA: (kissing him) Good luck. (pause) Watch out for those... you know... hostile takeovers.
FRED: I'm already taken.
FRED: Ah, Mister Rubble, I presume? Of the Fibrerock Rubbles?
FRED: Yas, yas. The water was too deep and my horse drowned.
LAVA: Ivan, look, okay, so I bought too much on margin... everyone said glaciers were here to stay, I mean, who knew? Just leverage my shares in Atlantis dry goods and -- what? When did that happen?
PILTDOWN: Mister Lava, the armored car is here.
LAVA: Armored car...?
PILTDOWN: Yeah. Must be a fortune in coo-coo berries on that baby. You know, for that Fibrerock stuff of Flintstone and Rubble's. You gotta sign here for it.
LAVA: (into phone) I... I'll get back to you.
LAVA: Piltdown, this Fibrerock program is going to create a lot of changes around the plant. I want to make one more. You've been a wonderful thug and goon for me. Now, I'd like to expand your duties. I want you to become a provocateur.
PILTDOWN: Gee, Mister Lava, I donno.   I kinda like girls myself.
LAVA: (patiently) What I mean, is, I'm going to use you to double-cross your Lodge and Union brothers, and make their lives a living hell.
PILTDOWN: Oh, okay.
LAVA: Good. You and your little pal will report directly to me and take orders only from me. (slapping him on the back) Now get out of here and start screwing your former friends and associates.
LAVA: Coo-coo berries...
BARNEY: (when he's gone) Gee, Fred, driving with you is better than an 'E' ticket at Magerock Mountain.
FRED: (getting out) Gets the old adrenaline going, Barn. Us big executives, we need that kind of jolt to get the old wheels turning.
LAVA: Flintstone!   Rubble!
BARNEY: Oh, hi, Mister Lava.
LAVA: Please, call me Jerry. Uncle -- I mean, Mister Slate told me to take you to your offices. If you'll follow me...?
FRED: Hey.   What's going on?
LAVA: The Fibrerock  assembly line. Unc -- Mister  Slate's had a crew working on it  all weekend. We're going to roll  out the first sheets of Fibrerock  by mid-week.
FRED: Yes, yes. Quick, dynamic entry into the marketplace. I approve.
BARNEY: But, Fred, it's right where the employee basketball court used ta be --
BARNEY: I guess so.   You already did.
LAVA: Well, gentlemen, here you are. As soon as you're settled, come over to the assembly line. We'll go over the Fibrerock formula before the first run.
BARNEY: All-right!
FRED: Welcome to the top -- partner.
BARNEY: Ready... aim... fibre!
SLATE: Men, this is a proud day for Slate Construction. You have seen the first pieces of Fibrerock roll off the assembly line and into history... a history you are all part of... thanks to your very own fellow worker, Fred Flintstone!
WORKER #1: Laid off --?
WORKER #2: Pink slip --?
WORKER #3: Thanks to Fred Flintstone?
BARNEY: Fred. You gotta do something about this!
FRED: I do? (realizing) I mean, I do, yeah!
BARNEY: (proudly) That's my Fred...
MOUSE: Whew.   And it's still pre-season.
SLATE: (furious) Flintstone!
SLATE: We do, eh?   About what?
FRED: About those guys outside, Mr. Slate. Some of 'em, well, they been here for years. And you, well, you can't lay them off just like -- (snapping fingers) -- that!
SLATE: Of course I can, Fred. I can lay them off like -- (snapping fingers) -- that, or like -- (a different style snap) -- that, or like --
SLATE: -- that.
FRED: (bravura slipping) Oh, you can, huh?
LAVA: Of course he can, Flintstone. It's his quarry.
SLATE: (still calm, warm) That's right. Why -- (chuckling) I could lock the front door and go fishing if I wanted!
SLATE: Or... (wiping away a tear) I could fire you, Fred.
FRED: (guffawing) Me! Ah, ha, that's rich, Mr. Slate, that's --
SLATE: Flintstone, Lava, here, recommended that you be in charge of public relations to get Fibrerock off to a good start. I'm a member of that public, Flintstone, and I have to say... this isn't a good start. I'm getting a bad feeling about Fibrerock. A bad feeling about... you. You want that feeling to go away, don't you?
FRED: Uh... well, gee, I... uh, yeah.
SLATE: Good. Then turn around and walk out of here and we'll forget all about this.
WORKERS: Well?   What'd he say...? Ol' Freddie  boy told him a thing or two...  Probably got us a raise... Right,  Fred...? Fred...?
BARNEY: (worried) Fred?
PEBBLES: But, Mommy, I wanna go roller skating...
BAM-BAM: (mouth full) Yeagh... 'hend thugh guys wher ghoing -- (swallow, munch) -- to play rockball at Paleolithic Park --
BETTY: Well, you're both going to change your plans. Your new school is going to have a talent show... and you're going to have some talent.
WILMA: You don't have to win... honorable mention or most Kongenial Kids is perfectly acceptable.
PEBBLES: (aside) As long as we beat the pants offa Mrs. Slate's nephew...
BAM-BAM: How about a disappearing act?
BETTY: We're waiting.
PEBBLES                         BAM-BAM: ... Wanna recite something?     Nah, what are we, little 'Inky Dinky Spidersaurus...'?   kids? How 'bout magic
PEBBLES: But then we'd need a hammer             BAM-BAM and chisel... oh, what about    That dumb thing?   You that thing with Dino?           think so...?
PEBBLES: Okay. We're gonna sing a song with Dino.
PEBBLES: A one-and-a-two and-a --
BETTY: (to Wilma, impressed) Well? Think they're ready for the talent show?
WILMA: I think they're ready for Rock Vegas.
HERDMASTER (V.O.): Fellow Water Buffalo. In a few moments we will cast our votes for the lodge officers.
HERDMASTER: The election committee will make the preparations.
FRED: (confident) Since when do you have to prepare for a landslide, right, guys?
FRED: Barn -- w-what's going on?
BARNEY: They're mad at you, Fred... it's understandable, I mean, they all got laid off today --
FRED: Guys, guys, come on now -- what's a quarry fulla layoffs got to do with a lodge fulla Buffaloes?
BARNEY: Is that a riddle? Give me a second --
PYRITE: (stepping forward) I'll tell ya what! Mosta the guys in this lodge work for Mr. Slate --
PILTDOWN: -- You mean used to work for him -- until somebody opened their big mouth --
FRED: Fellas, come on. We're all big boys here --
FRED: Surely we can separate in our minds work, and play... Job, and Lodge...
PYRITE: I second the motion!
HERDMASTER: All in favor, say --
FRED: Wait, wait... Your Antlerness, please, one second -- !
FRED: Barney, you gotta tell the other guys what really happened. Tell 'em the story behind Fibrerock. The true story.
BARNEY: Well, there's not much to tell. (trying to remember Fred's phraseology) True, I got a cut... but Fred's got a gut.
FRED: No, no, the rest --!
BARNEY: Oh, yeah, I remember! I got the mind, but Fred's got the behind. Right, Fred?
HERDMASTER: Thank you, Brother Rubble. The Buffaloes will now have their secret vote. (a command) Fit... furs!
HERDMASTER: Paw... ground!
HERDMASTER: All for Piltdown, bellow now!
HERDMASTER: All for Flintstone, bellow now!
HERDMASTER: Order furs!
HERDMASTER: The snorts have it! Brother Piltdown, it is my privilege to install you as the new Exalted Herdmaster Erect Antler and Big Buck of our Lodge. If you'll come forward, I will present you with the tokens of office.
BARNEY: I voted for you, Fred.
FRED: Big deal, after you screwed everything up in the first place...!
PILTDOWN: Thank you, Brother Chairman. Fellow Buffaloes, I'm a man of few words. It's no secret that most of our lodge members are also members of Amalgamated Neolithic 101... which means that most of us aren't gonna be able to make our cave payments next month. So my agenda for tonight... ends right now. There's a time to be a Buffalo... there's a time ta be a brown nosin' double-crossin' creep...
PILTDOWN: ... and there's a time to stand up and be a man! So let's go down there and make the Slate shop into slate scrap... then we'll see how he gets along without the heavy equipment operators of Neolithic 101! Meeting adjourned!
FRED: No kidding. They rejected the best candidate --
BARNEY: No, no, not that! Piltdown's got the guys all worked up and they're heading down to the quarry! They're gonna wreck the assembly line!
FRED: (genuinely worried) Oh, no! That -- that's horrible! (pause) We could end up with half a percent of nothing!
BARNEY: No, Fred, if they do that they'll be breakin' the law! Our brother Buffalo could go to jail!
FRED: Oh, yeah, yeah, that, too... come on, Barn, we gotta stop 'em!
PILTDOWN: Okay! Let's start with Slate's golf trophies and work our way up to the assembly line!
BARNEY: I know. Makes you wish things were back the way they were... before we was big executives.
FRED: Well, I wouldn't go that far...
FELDSPAR: Flintstone!   Pull over!
FRED: Oh, no, not now...
GRAVEL: Sarge!   Look out -- !
WHALE: I'm gonna sue you for everything you got --
PILTDOWN: (loudly) Now we'll show 'em who's boss!
PYRITE: They can't push us around!
BARNEY: Come on Fred.    Time to earn those big bucks.
PYRITE: Darn that Flintstone and Rubble... they're gonna screw everything up...
PILTDOWN: Not if we give 'em a nice long vacation... in the hospital.
BARNEY: Stee-rike one! Heh-hey.    Ready for a curve ball?
FRED: Brother Piltdown... can we talk about this, antler to antler?
FRED: Guess not...
BARNEY: Give me your best shot.
FRED: Dare you to cross that line.
FRED: That line.
PYRITE: Reject, huh? Whaddya say we reject your head?
FELDSPAR: All right!   You're all under arr --
BARNEY: (sitting up) Whattya know. Even got the spare again...
BETTY: Barney, I don't understand... what came over you boys?
EXITING BUFFALO: 'Night, Barney. (to Fred) So long, fatso.
BUFFALO #2: See ya, Barn. (pause) Flintstone, you're dead meat.
BUFFALO #2: 'Night, pal.    'Night, slimeball.
WILMA: Fred, is there something you want to tell me about the lodge meeting?
LAVA: A simple little heist -- I gave you everything but the keys and you blew it --
PILTDOWN: Hey, we got the union guys to break in and create a distraction, didn't we? Who knew Flintstone and Rubble would show up, too?
LAVA: The day after Slate City opens there's going to be an audit. If the stuff isn't gone by then we'll all be doing time until the Bronze Age.
PYRITE: Don't worry, Mister Lava... we're on top of it.
BARNEY: Excuse me, Mister Lava -- ? I think you oughta know... something could be wrong with the Fibrerock mix.
LAVA: (thrown) How do you know that? (recovering) I mean... ah, why do you say that?
LAVA: Tastes... different?
BARNEY: Yup. See, ever since I started with Fibrerock -- I mean, since me and Fred started with it, I always take a little taste of the Fibre foam. And tonight's batch, well... I didn't get much of it, but it seems a little off. (smacking his lips) Can't fool the old taste buds, heh-heh. I think there might be an ingredient missing. So tomorrow, I'll run a couple of tests and stuff --
LAVA: Rubble, Rubble! We're fighting a deadline to finish Slate City... and we're not pulling the plug on production to satisfy your tastebuds! If you ask me, you and your tastebuds are overworked ... overwrought... how long have you been with us, anyway?
BARNEY: Nine days, Mister Lava.
LAVA: Jumping Jurrasic, no wonder you're so run down.
LAVA: I'm authorizing a nice vacation for you, Rubble. Starting tomorrow. You can catch some rays, maybe invent something... hey, how about Fibrerock, the sequel, part II -- ?
BARNEY: But --
LAVA: No, don't try and thank me.
LAVA: ... As you can see, the Fibrerock is so light we're using it for construction, for furnishings... for everything. You can't stack a two-bedroom cave this high... but the sky's the limit with Fibrerock!
SLATE: 'Sky's the limit'... 'sky's the limit'... why, these two buildings, they... they practically scrape the sky! We should call them... Slate scrapers!
LAVA: That's brilliant, Unc... Mister Slate. In fact, maybe you can help me with the centerpiece of the complex... (indicating the convention center) ... I wanna call 'em the FibreSphere and the '____' something Needle... but I just can't...
SLATE: (modestly) How about, 'Slate Needle'?
LAVA: 'Slate Need...' (astonished) ... How do you keep coming up with these? It's uncanny.
SLATE: (shrugging) It's a gift...
LAVA: (casually) Oh, that reminds me, sign these, will you... just a few overruns ... minor cost problems... that's it... thank you...
LAVA: (heading for the door) ... Oh, Mister Slate, we're going to hold the Bedrock Junior Talent Show in the uh, 'Slate Needle.' Good for public relations --
PILTDOWN: Can we help you... sir?
PYRITE: Our pleasure.
PILTDOWN: (chuckling) Ya can start by cleaning the street with your pants!
LAVA: That takes care of the half-pint. (pause) Now to deal with the half-wit.
FRED: (on the move) ... But Barney doesn't want to take a vacation -- he says he's gotta be here to check up on the Fibrefoam --
LAVA: (pointedly) -- Oh? Or check up on us?
FRED: (nervous) Of course not, Mister Lava. But --
LAVA: Call me Jerry. Sit down, please...
LAVA: (offering one) ... Cigar?
FRED: Why, yeah, sure, Jerry.
LAVA: Fred, let me get to the bottom slime. Some men -- you and me, for instance -- we're cut out for the big time, the big bucks... (eyeing Fred's girth) ... the big everything.
LIZARD: (aside) When they say smoking is bad for your health, they're not kidding...
LAVA: ... Now, I know your pal Barney had a small part in the preliminary research and development of Fibrerock...
FRED: Well, actually, I wouldn't say small part... I'd say...
LAVA: Yes?
FRED: ... Kind of a medium-sized... well, almost medium-sized... well, really a semi-partial assistant counsulting type, of --
LAVA: (giving Fred a playful punch) You're too kind, Flintstone, that's what I like about you. But you're a big guy with a big decision to make. Are you gonna keep covering for Barney, keep pulling his acornsauruses out of the fire... or are you going to concentrate on your own important duties?
FRED: Well, gee, that's tough one -- (pause) -- Uh, what are my important duties?
LAVA: Publicity, Flintstone, publicity!
FRED: R-rockin' Leach?
LEACH: 'Ello,  Fred. I've 'eard a lot h'about  you from Mister Lava. H'at's  why we're going to put you on our  program.
FRED: M-me?   On -- on television?
LAVA: (patting his back, sotto) Right, Fred. As long as you forget all this nonsense about Barney.
FRED: (still in a dazed thrill) Barney who?
FRED: W-what's wrong?
LEACH: Well, just look at that yard over there... barbecues and trikes, not exactly the right image...
FRED: (pointing) Maybe you could move those plants to block them out...?
LEACH: Good idea. Rodney, get 'hoppin' with those greens.
WILMA: Fred, this was supposed to be a 'typical evening' at the Flintstones, and you invited fifty people I don't even know. Now what's going on? Where are they taking my ficus-sauruses?
FRED: It's the Rubble yard, Wilma.   It's just not the right image...
BARNEY: Fred's in a high-powered executive job, Betty. There's a lot of pressure on him.
BETTY: Yeah... and it's all around his belt. If it wasn't for poor Wilma I wouldn't give him the Geological Time --
BARNEY: Trust me, Betty. After the Fibrerock debut, he'll be the same old Fred.
BIRD: (slowly getting up) I've heard of a flash in the pan, but this is ridiculous...
ANNOUNCER (O.S.): And now... the man who brings you the romance and excitement you crave... from the casinos of Monte Carlrock to the glamour of Hollyrock, here's your guide to the Rockstyles of the Rich and Famous, Rockin' Leach!
LEACH: Good evening. Tonight we come to you live from the ah... charming pied a terre of the man of the 'our, Fred Flintstone --
LEACH: 'Ere we are at the 'ome of Bedrock's man o' the 'our, Frederick Flint--
LEACH: 'Ere we are at the fabulous 'ome of Bedrock's man o' the 'our, Frederick von Flintstone --
WILMA: Thank heaven. There isn't one person I know here.
BARNEY: You mean beside Fred?
WILMA: I mean including Fred.
LEACH: Frederick, of course, is the man behind Fibrerock -- the invention that some predict will revolutionize life in the future. Frederick, 'ow does it feel to know that you 'ave personally brought the Stone Age as we know it to a long-deserved end?
FRED: (very affected accent) Well, Rockin', you're right, I have affected destiny for all mankind, and it's a sobering thought. However, if I may add a personal note at this time, I myself cannot personally take all the credit for Fibrerock...
BARNEY: (sotto, to them) See?   What'd I tell ya?
POINDEXTER: Wow! Is this ever keen! Dad, you promise I can cut in all the lines?
LAVA: Of course, Poindexter, of course.
FRED: Hello, hello. Bon soir. Good to see ya... glad you could make it...
GUEST: (unconvincingly) Hello, Frank...
FRED: Fred -- there's the bar, make yourself at home -- mi casa es votre casa, so, when in Rome and all that --
WILMA: (coming over) Fred, can I talk to you -- ? Fred? Fred? (concerned) We have a serious problem with Betty and Barney.
FRED: (alarmed) You mean you can see their house -- ?
WILMA: (exasperated) I mean you're treating them horribly! What's come over you, Fred? Does a little money mean so much to you that you just turn your back on the things that really count?
FRED: Wilma, I'm shocked. I wouldn't do that. Okay, I admit it: I'm trying to make an impression here, I wanna look good, I wanna be a success...
WILMA: Arrrgh -- !
FRED: What'd I say?
P.A.: That was our location guy at Slate City. They just moved the ribbon cutting up by an hour. Guests are already starting to arrive.
LEACH: Fabulous! I've 'ad enough crab meat and crabgrass to last me a year. All right, boys, that's a wrap!
FRED: ... Yas, yas, it's a challenging commodity market these days. Personally, I'm considering petrified forests, but they do say that volcano futures are ready to explode, ha, ha...
FRED: ... Hey, whoa, what's happening --
FRED: Fred!
FRED: Hey, what's the hurry? We got a cake shaped like a piece of Fibrerock... I got it, how about some charades? No, even better, twenty questions: 'Am I animal, mineral, or fossil'...? Oh, I heard a great one the other day ... a guy walks in a bar with a duckasaurus on his head and the bartender says -- this'll kill you, the bartender says --
WILMA: Fred... I... I'm sorry it's not working out...
FRED: Whaddya mean, not working out? They're goin' party hopping, that's all. That's what ya do in society, Wilma... you cruise around. They'll go over to Slate's shindig for a while, then they'll come back here.
WILMA: Fred...
FRED: You go on over to Slate City, okay?
WILMA: Fred, I want to be here with you --
WILMA: Come on, Pebbles. We're going to another party.
PEBBLES: Will there be real food there?
WILMA: We'll find out together.
BETTY: Wilma, wait.   I'm going with you.
WILMA: Why?
BETTY: If friends can't do something stupid, who can?
BETTY: Besides... (lowering her voice) ... Maybe if we leave the boys alone...?
FRED: Just you and me now, Dino. Yeah. That's okay. Man and man's best friend.
FRED: (disbelieving) B... Barney?
BARNEY: (moving closer) Hiya, Fred. (noticing his ruined tuxedo) Boy, the rental place is gonna be mad... (eyeing the mess) ... You feeling better, pal?
BARNEY: Creep?
FRED: Well, yeah.   But more of a --
BARNEY: (helpful tone) Fool?
FRED: Well --
BARNEY: Slimeball? Louse? Jackass? (snapping fingers) Stuck-up blimpasaurus?
FRED: (wincing, but taking it) Barney... can... can you ever forgive me for being such a jerk?
BARNEY: (stepping closer) Sure, Fred. (smiling) I've had lots of practice.
FRED: (touched) Aw, Barn...
RECORDING (V.O.): (a la 'The Great Gildersleeve') Welcome! Welcome to the fabulous world of tomorrow... a world brought to you by Fibrerock!
PARROT (RECORDING) (V.O.): Here, we see a typical family of the future, free of the cares and worries of today... yes, the great kibble crisis is a thing of the past when you're living the good life... the Fibrelife!
ANOTHER PARROT: Here, gathered from the four corners of the globe, are the secret ingredients of Fibrerock... some common, some rare... all making life easier for you and yours!
FASHION PARROT: But does Fibrerock belong only in the kitchen, the garage, the workplace? No, no, no, my darlings!
FASHION PARROT: Because the clothes of the Stone Age are as extinct as stones themselves! Yes, thanks to the wonder of Fibrerockfibre, the world of high fashion will be totally transformed... by Fibre furs... Fibre frocks... Fibre foundations and Fibreshoes... it's to die for!
FIBRE CHOIR (V.O.): 'It's a Fibre World you know, It's a Fibre World you know, It's a Fibre World you know -- '
FRED & BARNEY: 'Now it's time to do or die, grab that rock and kick it high, let's fight, fight, fight for Bedrock High!'
FRED: Boy, those were the days, Barney. Bedrock High winning all those games... and you and me right in the middle of it.
BARNEY: Yeah.   Too bad we never made the team.
FRED: So what? We made the team spirit. That's just as important... whatever happened to those cheerleader costumes?
BARNEY: You know Betty. She never throws anything away.
FRED: (rummaging in it) Boy.    Talk about memories.
FRED: Back then, we thought a pop quiz was a big problem. We didn't know how good we had it. No problems, no worries...
BARNEY: Speaking of problems and worries, shouldn't we get on over to Slate's party?
FRED: (echo-y) All they've been doing is using us, Barney. And meanwhile --
FRED: (normal voice) -- Meanwhile all the time they were laughing at us.
BARNEY: Yeah?   When did you notice that?
FRED: About an hour ago.
BARNEY: Boy, there's no fooling you, Fred.
FRED: Wha... what's happening?
FRED: Your old models are just fine...
BARNEY: It should be. There's enough coo-coo berry resin in there to petrify a brontosaurus --
BARNEY: (snapping his fingers) -- The coo-coo berries! Fred, that's it!
FRED: What's it?
BARNEY: Remember I said the Fibrefoam tasted funny? It was the coo-coo sap that was missing!
FRED: But.. why would --
BARNEY: Why? Because coo-coo berries are as valuable as goldrock! And we've had tons of 'em delivered to the plant since we started... somebody musta got greedy --
FRED: -- Not 'somebody' -- Lava!
BARNEY: (alarmed) Fred, that sap acts as a fixative -- it's the glue that holds the whole formula together -- !
BARNEY: (finishing it) ... Is gonna happen for real in the real Slate City!
FRED: Oh no... Barney! Wilma and Betty -- and the kids -- they're all there --
FRED: (worried) -- B-barney... what do we do?
BARNEY: Coo-coo berry sap, Fred! It's our only chance -- their only chance!
LAVA: You're certainly looking lovely this evening, Mrs. Flintstone. Life with a junior executive must agree with you.
LAVA: (looking into her eyes) Yes. I think so, too. (smiling) Imagine how good you'd look with a senior executive.
WILMA: Oh?   Is Fred getting promoted?
HEADMISTRESS: (as applause dies) Sank you, ladies and gentlemen. An' sank you, Monsieur Slate for zis lovely setting. Zoot alors, zis will ze mos' fantas'tic recital in Bedrock 'istoree. Now, I would like to sank out mos' generous benefactress, Madame Slate for her fine support o'vair zee years --
HEADMISTRESS: -- An' now, what better introduction could we 'ave for Mrs. Slate's vairy own gran' nephew... Poindexter Lava!
POINDEXTER: (singing loudly) 'Dino of Spain, I adore you Right from the moment I saw you -- '
FRED: What'll we do when we get there?
BARNEY: We just tell Mister Slate that all 500 acres of his development are going to crumble into dust any minute. (holds up the flit gun) Then we zap the stairs and corridors with some of this coo-coo sap. I just hope we have enough to get everybody out -- whoops!
BARNEY: Hang on, hang on --
FELDSPAR: (mouth full, bitching) Speed traps again! Face it, Gravel. I'm in a rut... and meanwhile, the guys who went through the academy with me, they're all big shots now: Sam Slate... Dirty Harock... Magma, P.I. And you know why? 'Cause they got the breaks, that's why!
FELDSPAR: There's a lesson there, Gravel... never pick up hitchhikers. Besides -- (realizing) -- Did you say 'creature'?
FELDSPAR & GRAVEL: The xenosaurus!
FELDSPAR: This is a xenosaurus alert. Repeat, a xenosaurus alert. The creature has been sighted on the Slate City exit of the Venturock Freeway! It is driving a brown late model sedan and eating a white male Caucasian. Car twelve is in hot pursuit.
FELDSPAR: (remembering) Oh, yeay... over and out!
DISPATCH PARAKEET: (as it goes) Awwk! Car Twelve is on the way. Car Twelve is on the way...
FELDSPAR: (thrilled) Gravel, this could mean promotions for both of us! (trotting up to speed) Load the shotgun and turn on the siren!
FRED: (muffled, shouting) Ho, gweat! Hoo bwoke hit, Bahnee! Hi khnat twalk hennymore!
FRED: Ho noh! Ahhrisser Felghspah! (turning to Barney) Haybee whee hould shtop -- ?
BARNEY: What, and explain what you're doing in that costume? Start talking about coo-coo berries and Fibrerock? By then it'll be too late!
FRED: 'Hen yore height, yore height...
BARNEY: (hearing a siren) We'd better split up; that way at least one of us can make it to the Slate Needle -- !
FRED: 'Ood hidea.   Ood whuk, ol' bhudee.
HEADMISTRESS: Sank you, sank you. Our nex' performance is Bam-Bam, Pebbles... (checking notes) ... an' friend.
KIDS: You can keep the twist, the frug and hop --
MRS. SLATE: I'll tell you what's wrong! This 'act' is an absolute disgrace! This is supposed to be a talent show!  And a pedestrian animal act like this belongs in a circus!
BETTY: A circus, huh? Well, if our kids belong in a circus with their act, then your little nephew belongs in a zoo with his --
WILMA: Yeah -- a zoo where the animals are dead -- because if they aren't, they will be!
MRS. SLATE: Why, how dare you! Mrs. Flintstein, I'll have you know that my little Poindexter has been trained by the finest tutors! Poindexter! Show them! Encore!
MRS. SLATE: (alarmed) Ah... Poindexter... that's enough ... Poindexter...?
GRAVEL: No sign of the driver...
FELDSPAR: You kidding? By now he's a couple of shinbones and a belch.
GRAVEL: Holy cowasaurus! Look how deep these tracks are! That xeno thing must weigh a ton!
FELDSPAR: Okay, lizard, reach for the sky!
FELDSPAR: (frightened, backing away) Quivering quartzite, d-did you see that --
GRAVEL: (following him) O-one flick of his paw... and he knocked down a wall -- !
FRED: Nogh, wate, chum baggk --
FRED: Barney!    The elevator -- !
FRED: Quick!    Use your coo-coo gun -- !
FELDSPAR: Chief, you -- you gotta believe me -- just one swipe of its paw and -- wham -- a whole house was pre-history -- !
DISPATCH PARAKEET: Calling all cars. Calling all cars. Unconfirmed reports of destruction and collapse at Slate City. Rescue vehicles are on the way. The xenosaurus has been spotted in the area. That is all. That is all.
FELDSPAR: (excited) You see -- ? I told you --
CHIEF: All right, Feldspar, I'm convinced! As of this moment you're completely in charge of operation... (dramatic) ... 'Xeno Dino'! Now, what do you need?
FELDSPAR: (firm-jawed) Artillery.
BARNEY: (recovering) Fred, stop it! It might know the way inside!
SLATE: What the devil's going on here?
FRED: It's real simple, Mister Slate. Your boy Lava here has been stealing the coo-coo berries from the Fibrerock mix and fixing the books to hide it!
LAVA: That's ridiculous, Flintstone! Nobody could get that many coo-coo berries off our premises!
LAVA: (smoothly) They're convincing fakes, Mrs. Rubble -- part of our exciting display --
PYRITE: Fakes? (to Piltdown) Gee, Pilty, I thought the real ones were gonna be moved up here for us ta steal -- whatta waste a time --
PILTDOWN: Pyrite, shaddup --
FRED: (snapping fingers) Now I remember! These guys were pulling this xenosaurus act that night at the plant! What's this, Lava... 'Plan B'?
LAVA: Uncle! Are you going to stand there while aspersions are being cast at the Slate family? This is absurd --
SLATE: Of course it is! Why, without the coo-coo berry sap, Fibrerock would be completely -- (realizing) -- unstable...
SLATE: I'll tell you what's superfluous, Lava... your liver! So why don't we remove it -- !
FIRE CHIEF: Come on, come on, what's the hold up -- ?
FIREFIGHTER: It's the kibble crisis, sir -- the firesauruses have been on half-rations for a month!
WILMA: (pointing) Fred!   There's a fire hose -- !
BAM-BAM: D-dad, are we gonna be okay?
BARNEY: (pause; false smile) Sure, pal. We just gotta wait for the fire department. Right, Fred?
FRED: Y-yeah. Everything's gonna be just -- Whoa, hoo-hah, aggh --
FRED: -- Wait a minute -- I don't feel anything at all --
BARNEY: It must be the suit, Fred -- old Bedrock High built them things to last --
BARNEY: (rapping on the head) -- Okay?
FRED: Hist hust fine!
FRED: Hit fuzz nudding... wheely...
PYTHONSAURUS: Hey, what am I, chopped liver?
BARNEY: Come on, everybody -- we'll go out the way we came!
POINDEXTER: (pushing and shoving) Outta the way -- outta the way -- women and children first -- ! I mean, ah, children and women first, yeah, yeah, provided that uh, there's room for the women...
PYTHONSAURUS: Hey, not bad.    Wonder if she lives around here.
HEADMISTRESS: (panicking) Oh, geez, we're all gonna croak -- I neva shoulda left Far Rockaway --
POINDEXTER: (to anyone and everyone) Fifty clams for a piggy-back ride ... a hundred clams!
MRS. SLATE: (aghast) Do you see that, Jerry? Do you see how my great-nephew is behaving at this moment of crisis?
FRED: (to Pebbles) Upsy-daisy, sweetheart -- piggy back time!
FRED: (resigned) Hohh... GWEAT!
BARNEY: (to Betty) Go on, honey... I got Bam-Bam!
BETTY: Barney... tonight you're the biggest man in Bedrock.
FRED: (through the mask) Wilmagh, I jusght whunt to sagh thad I knogh shumtimes I dogh dumb thinks... Bhut hit's becaughse high luff yough sogh much thaght high whant yough to livgh likge a pwincess orgh a qween 'cause you reaally arggh rugg aaggg hummmmg higga!
BETTY: W-wilma... those hoops of bamboo... those wires... do you think -- ?
WILMA: Yes! Yes! Betty, we have to try it -- ! Dino! Dino, look down here -- !
WILMA   AND   BETTY: You can keep   the   twist, the frug and   hop I don't need   to shimmy, I don't need   to bop --
WILMA AND BETTY: Yes, I don't need to shimmy, I don't need to bop 'Cause I'm doin', doin', doin'
FELDSPAR: It's the xenosaurus -- stand back, men -- it's a vicious killer -- Ready -- Aim --
FRED: (with desperate poignancy) High ham noght a zenosore! High ham hay hooman beeng -- !
GRAVEL: Hey, those are the biggest shorts I've ever seen... (realizing) ... It... it must be Mister Flintstone! Cease fire! (to Feldspar) Gee, Sarge, now you don't have to shoot him -- !
POINDEXTER: (distant) Dad! Dad! Can I use the Porscherock while you're in the slammer?
SLATE: Flintstone. Rubble. I... I don't know what to say. I... I treated you horribly... I ignored you, abused you... and then you come here and risk your necks like this... well, there's no price you can put on something like that, so I won't even try. But let me give you... (with great poignancy) ... a hearty handshake.
MRS. SLATE: Dear, don't you think a little more than that is in order?
SLATE: Honey, you're being hysterical, go lie down, okay?
SLATE: (sighing) Okay, okay. (to Fred and Barney) Boys, I'm feeling guilty about how you've been taken advantage of, so I'll tell you what... I'm going to give you back all world-wide rights to Fibrerock, free and clear.
SLATE: Your only obligation will be to cover oh, whatever legal expenses might surface at some later time...
BARNEY: You think there's gonna be some?
SLATE: (casually) Oh, you never know...
FRED: Barn...?    What's going on?
BARNEY: (sniffing it) Lava Lava leaves... Woca sap... all still there, but now the nutrients are all released... (realizing) ... Fred, this... this is Dino kibble!
FRED: Dino kibble...?
FRED: (mouth full) Dhinough khibble!!
FRED: Barney, we -- we're rich! Yabba dabba do -- !
MUSIC (V.O.): We'll have a yabba dabba-do time A dabba-do time We'll have a gay old time!
FRED: (knocking) Wilma...? (another knock) ... Wilma?
FRED: Wilma?   Wil-ma --!
