MAIN TITLES: As presentation credits begin, we hear Johnny Cash's "Home of the Blues." Then we see Allison's name, under it Alex's, under that Robert's, under that Quentin's, then under that the title logo for Four Rooms, followed by "Starring Tim Roth as the Bellboy." Then "The Guests" listed in alphabetical order of all the actors playing guests. After the actors' names, we.
TED: You met any of those old stars?
TED: THE OLD GUY
TED: I don't think so, not like yours.
TED: Beats me.
TED: THE OLD GUY
TED: What do you mean?
TED: No way, not me. You got any other Always get a tip.
BETTY: Sam! Hey, Sam, wait a minute!
BETTY: I just want to say good-bye.
BETTY: Uhhh, Betty. The concierge. Your
BETTY: Yeah, sure.
BETTY: I just want you to know, from the owner and all the staff, your fifty years of service have been an inspiration to us all. You're a legend in your own time, and the Mon Signor will never be the
TED: Sam the bellboy. Now there was a Yeah. Oh, hi, Teddy. Ready to start the night shift?
BETTY: Yeah. Oh, hi, Teddy. Ready to start the night shift?
TED: Well, let me buy you a drink.
BETTY: Well, let me buy you a drink.
TED: You wanna buy me a drink? I'm starting my shift.
BETTY: You're not an alcoholic, are you; one drink won't kill you.
TED: Yeah, sure.
BETTY: After fifty years, Sam retires, and you're taking over the night shift.
TED: You're filling some mighty big shoes.
BETTY: You're filling some mighty big shoes.
TED: Oh, I know.
BETTY: Sam was a legend in the hotel Oh, I know.
TED: Oh, I know.
BETTY: A bellhop's bellhop.
TED: An inspiration to us all.
BETTY: He ran the night desk for fifty years, all by himself.
TED: An amazing man.
BETTY: No desk clerk. No night man. No help. Just fuckin' Sam, and his wits.
TED: A man alone.
BETTY: And you're gonna do the same.
TED: I know.
BETTY: Ted spews his drink.
TED: Yes, tonight.
BETTY: Yes, tonight.
TED: I can't.
BETTY: Yes, you can.
TED: No, I can't. I never worked the night shift before.
BETTY: Oh night shift smight shift.
TED: We were supposed to work it together.
BETTY: I know, but I can't.
TED: Why not?
BETTY: I'm having a New Year's Eve party.
TED: Since when?
BETTY: Actually, I'm not having it. My roommate is. And there's this guy. German guy. He's gonna be there. And so am I.
TED: I can't run this place by myself.
BETTY: Oh, sure ya can.
TED: No, I can't.
BETTY: Sam ran this place by himself for fifty years.
TED: Yeah, and he had fifty years of fuckin' practice, too. I haven't had a day.
BETTY: Look, Teddy, calm down
TED: Don't call me Teddy.
BETTY: Ted, the night's cake. It's easy. The day's when it's busy. During the night there's nothing to do.
TED: It's New Year's Eve.
BETTY: Which'll make it less busy than normal. Ever worked on Christmas? Unless you sell turkeys, business is dead. You just got butterflies, that's What I have ain't butterflies. I can't handle this hotel all by myself.
TED: What I have ain't butterflies. I can't handle this hotel all by myself.
BETTY: Okay, let's calm down a minute. Slow it down, cool it off. Let's just You can say any goddamn thing you down? I thought we were cooling off? No hostility. Say good-bye to hostility. We're just talking.
TED: You can say any goddamn thing you down? I thought we were cooling off? No hostility. Say good-bye to hostility. We're just talking.
BETTY: Ted? I thought we were calming down? I thought we were cooling off? No hostility. Say good-bye to hostility. We're just talking.
TED: Okay. okay. okay. I'm calm, I'm cool, let's talk.
BETTY: Ted, in a nutshell, all you have to do is hold the fort. It's New Year's Eve. Most of the guests are going out. You'll just be giving them a little nod as they come staggering in at three. four. five. in the morning. Nobody's having any parties, a few get-togethers, but no parties. You got about three people checking in tonight, that's it. The only variable is Chester Rush in the Chester Rush? The guy from The Wacky Yeah, him and his entourage checked in last night. They're in the penthouse. The only reason I refer to it as a variable is that he's a movie star. Ya never know about movie stars. I'm tellin' ya, Ted, it's
TED: Chester Rush? The guy from The Wacky Yeah, him and his entourage checked in last night. They're in the penthouse. The only reason I refer to it as a variable is that he's a movie star. Ya never know about movie stars. I'm tellin' ya, Ted, it's
BETTY: Yeah, him and his entourage checked in last night. They're in the penthouse. The only reason I refer to it as a variable is that he's a movie star. Ya never know about movie stars. I'm tellin' ya, Ted, it's
BETTY: ( continuing ) And look, if you have any problems, call me at the party.
TED: For fifty bucks.
BETTY: For fifty bucks.
TED: For fifty bucks.
BETTY: Fifty bucks!
TED: You're shirking your duties for this Nazi. For that you pay a price, and the price is fifty bucks.
BETTY: One, Horst is not a Nazi. Two, that's not a fair price. You're taking advantage of the situation. Twenty bucks. Now, twenty bucks is a fair Yeah, but what you're doin' to me ain't fair. And, you are completely and totally taking advantage of me and your position. So fifty bucks is the perfect price.
TED: Yeah, but what you're doin' to me ain't fair. And, you are completely and totally taking advantage of me and your position. So fifty bucks is the perfect price.
BETTY: Okay, but don't be a pussy. You don't bother me unless it's an emergency. In fact, for fifty bucks, you better not call me unless the fuckin' building's burning down.
BETTY: Get ready to take the desk.
ROOM 321: "STRANGE BREW"
"STRANGE BREW": FADE IN: EXT. THE MON SIGNOR HOTELDUSK Ted, the bellboy, meets his first guest of the evening, as a taxi unloads her luggage. To his warm surprise, the guest is a Beautiful Mediterranean Goddess ( actually, we will come to see she is not technically a goddess, but a High Priestess ). She is about 25 years old, speaks with an Italian accent and is dressed in Gypsy garb. She is Athena. Ted takes Athena's luggage onto his cart. But one item in a woven Moroccan bag proves to be unbearably heavy. Athena is concerned as he attempts to lift it.
ATHENA: Pleeze be careful my God. You have no idea.
ATHENA: I'm usually a good tipper, but this one this cab driver he had green all around him. I don't like that in a man.
TED: Green? Is that bad? Like you read auras or something like that?
ATHENA: Something like that.
TED: Yeah, well what color are you seein' around me. how's the tip lookin?
ATHENA: I see purple. in your face, and.
ATHENA: .you're okay.
ATHENA: Athena Z.
TED: ( scratching his head weird name, okay ) You're booked in the Honeymoon Suite just one night? With all this luggage?
ATHENA: I will only need to stay till sunrise.
TED: Okay. and how will you be paying?
ATHENA: With gold.
ATHENA: Well the other bag I need it.
TED: He starts to lift it, again straining and turning purple. He laughs sickly.
TED: What the hell you got in here, lady? Nuclear weapons? The White Cliffs of Dover.
ATHENA: ( dryly ) The White Cliffs of Dover.
ATHENA: The others will be coming soon. Send them, pleeze.
TED: Oh I forgot to show you how to turn on the Jacuzzi.
ATHENA: I been in dis' place many New Year's. So. you send the others to me, huh. Go now.
ATHENA: On this night, oh great goddess Diana, we restore your virgin flesh and bring you back to real life.
ATHENA: Soon I take you to the pond for a cleansing. Well, it's a swimming pool, but it will be under the setting sun, okay?
TED: May I help you?
ELSPETH: I. we. have a reservation.
ELSPETH: ANGLE ON a young punk rocker chick with long orange hair, a long leather coat, wearing a tight T-shirt with studs spelling "PUSSY" across her breasts. This is Kiva. Kiva is kicking the tar and nicotine outta the cigarette machine. Just as Ted's eyes grow wide with anxiety, several packs of smokes drop into the juvenile delinquent's hands.
KIVA: Wait up, gawd! I had to get supplies for this boring ass night.
ELSPETH: ( to Ted ) We have a reservation in the Honeymoon Oh yeah. you must be one of "the others." And what're you carrying the Rock of Gibraltar?
TED: Oh yeah. you must be one of "the others." And what're you carrying the Rock of Gibraltar?
ELSPETH: What'd I tell you about smoking?
KIVA: You smoke.
ELSPETH: That's right I smoke, and I'm addicted to it, and I don't want the same thing to happen to you.
KIVA: ( in game-show host voice ) "Hello welcome to this week's edition of the Hypocrite of the Year Award "
ELSPETH: Kiva! That's enough
KIVA: You're not my mother!
ELSPETH: Yes I am.
KIVA: Then why're we sleeping together?
ELSPETH: Well. I didn't mean it. literally. I. I happen to be the only one who. cares about you Please take us to our room!
ELSPETH: Please take us to our room!
ELSPETH: Flea powder. One of the others is bringing her cat.
ELSPETH: You're gonna have to wait in the other room.
KIVA: Because I said so.
ELSPETH: Because I said so.
KIVA: I'll watch TV.
ELSPETH: You can't watch TV because the noise will interfere with our ritual.
KIVA: Okay. Mommy.
ATHENA: Soon our goddess will come. I will go get her negligee.
ATHENA: What are you doing! Have you no respect who who is dis girl?
ELSPETH: Kiva. My friend. Kiva, turn off the TV! I can't leave her at home she's on probation and I gotta keep an eye on her.
ATHENA: Well, Elspeth, your friend cannot stay here during the ritual. She may be one of your kind, but she is not one of us.
ELSPETH: She stays!! Or I go along with my
ATHENA: TURN OF THE FUCKING TV, MAN! Make me.
KIVA: ( in a seductive pout ) Make me.
ATHENA: Let's not forget I am the High Fucking Priestess. Deal with dis
ATHENA: ( eyes lifted to heaven, wearily ) Tell me did we have these problems in Salem? I don't think so.
ELSPETH: Kiva. you know what I love about
ELSPETH: Your sweet side.
KIVA: And what do I get if I'm sweet?
ELSPETH: You get whatever you want. And you know what else I love about you?
KIVA: ( seduced now ) Your nose.
ELSPETH: Your nose.
ELSPETH: And I saw you checking her out.
JEZEBEL: ( talking to her cat in baby talk ) Oh you little stinker. oh you sweet little muffin. Yes. Mama loves the
JEZEBEL: Well, this is just darlin'! Just darlin' Hi-dee, girls.
JEZEBEL: And saying this, she shoos him away. Through the glass doors to the bedroom, she sees Kiva sprawled on the bed, writing on herself.
JEZEBEL: Well I see Elspeth has herself a new lil' fool what the hell is she doin' here on our night of annual I have sanctioned her presence, as long as she behaves. Come on there is more work to be done to welcome our great Diana.
ATHENA: ( wearily ) I have sanctioned her presence, as long as she behaves. Come on there is more work to be done to welcome our great Diana.
KIVA: I WANT ROOM SERVICE!! Why do I always attract girls who are looking for a babysitter?
ELSPETH: Why do I always attract girls who are looking for a babysitter?
JEZEBEL: Well now, honey, maybe Juvenile Hall ain't the best place to find serious relationship material.
RAVEN: I'm looking for the room for making You might be referring to the Honeymoon Suite. Straight thata way. you can't miss it see all that furniture in the hallway
TED: You might be referring to the Honeymoon Suite. Straight thata way. you can't miss it see all that furniture in the hallway
RAVEN: Oh I know the way. I just wanted you to know that I knew where I was going and that you needn't bother yourself with me. The others are here great!
TED: ( wearily ) Oh yeah it's so great it's ( in deep empathy ) Ohhh. I know it all seems very strange but you're coping with us much better than the bellboys of past New Year's.
RAVEN: ( in deep empathy ) Ohhh. I know it all seems very strange but you're coping with us much better than the bellboys of past New Year's.
TED: Past New Year's?
RAVEN: Oh yes we've been coming here every New Year. for a long time. Thanks for your patience.
TED: Oh hey no problem wreck the place. Bring in cats. Ruin the carpet with flea powder, pour paint in the Jacuzzi. Throw the furniture out the. where're your bags?
RAVEN: I travel very light.
TED: ( already weary of these girls ) Yeah, yeah, Honeymoon Suite.
EVA: Oh. yes. I'm late.
TED: All right lemme give ya a hand.
EVA: Oh. no, that's all right. I can carry them by myself.
TED: I'm a man doin' a job no hero.
EVA: Well gosh thank you!
EVA: Tell me, how long have the others been here?
TED: About an hour.
ATHENA: You are very late, Eva.
EVA: I'm sorry, Athena. I was attending a birth and the placenta was late in
EVA: Oh, wait, lemme give you a little more than that. Which birth is more important to you, that of a mortal or that of a All life is precious. but I do apologize for being late, Elspeth.
ELSPETH: Which birth is more important to you, that of a mortal or that of a All life is precious. but I do apologize for being late, Elspeth.
EVA: All life is precious. but I do apologize for being late, Elspeth.
JEZEBEL: Back home, they jist yank on the umbilical cord, do a Karate chop on the mama's belly, and them things come right out.
EVA: They do that here, too, Jezebel, in the hospitals, but it causes hemorrhages. I fed the mother a bowl of comfrey tea and it brought the afterbirth down perfectly. The couple are going to use it for fertilizer to plant a lovely tree for their Oh wow if they were really back- to-nature, they'd eat it, like other mammals do.
KIVA: Oh wow if they were really back- to-nature, they'd eat it, like other mammals do.
RAVEN: In some Native American cultures, they dry the umbilical cord, grind it to a fine powder, and put it in a leather pouch that the baby wears to ward off evil. But burying the placenta is also a very sound ecological practice 'cause of the oxygen it carries.
EVA: ( cheerfully to the others ) Yes because you see when the placenta detaches from the uterine ( wincing in disgust ) Uh, thank you, ladies I'll be going now. If you need anything
TED: ( wincing in disgust ) Uh, thank you, ladies I'll be going now. If you need anything
ATHENA: Wait. We do need a few things.
ATHENA: We need fresh rosemary from the kitchen. Mostly what we need is from the kitchen. Hey, are you listening?
TED: Yeah, yeah, rosemary.
ATHENA: And a little bit of sea salt or Kosher salt if you don't got no sea salt. A bottle of spring water Italian please, not French shit.
KIVA: And some french fries!
ELSPETH: Kiva, shut up.
ATHENA: ( irritated ) And some ginger, two of the eyes of a trout fish, and a piece of raw meat, liver if you have it.
KIVA: ( whining ) I want fries you dumb jerks with your stupid fucking ritual!
ATHENA: Shut up, you little shit.
ELSPETH: Don't talk to her that way!
ATHENA: Get to work, man.
ELSPETH: You have to go in the next room now.
KIVA: You have to go in the next room now.
ELSPETH: You have to go in the next room now.
KIVA: Oh, wow, like I'm bummed out that I can't watch. I'm bored!
ELSPETH: She climbs up the stairs, trying to pull the brat to her
UP!: She climbs up the stairs, trying to pull the brat to her
KIVA: Don't put me in there by myself. I'll miss you way too much.
ELSPETH: Kiva, don't do this to me.
KIVA: Please. if you just lemme. I'll play dress-up with you, the way you like it. you know what I mean.
KIVA: We can pretend and I'll do it exactly. the way you want it. with the egg whites and the kilt.
ELSPETH: You mean. like last week?
ELSPETH: We'll talk about this later, Kiva.
KIVA: ( angrily )
JEZEBEL: Aw, really now child abuse?
ELSPETH: You stay outta this!
ATHENA: I demand this stop now, Elspeth!
KIVA: I'm running away from you!
ELSPETH: Fine. Go ahead. And I'll call your parole officer and she'll find you and send you back to Eastlake!
ATHENA: Now that the fucking melodrama is over, can we start the goddamn ritual
ATHENA: We are communing here on New Year's Eve to bring to life the great goddess Diana, who was turned to stone in this very room forty years ago today.
ATHENA: Diana, great beautiful one, we make these offerings to you, that we may undo the wicked spell which deprived you of the seed of your lover, your virginal blood, of your very life. We now form the symbolic rock with our bodies.
ATHENA: On this night, in this hour, we Call upon the Ancient Power O Goddess bride, I offer thee Milk from a mother's sweet titty!
ELSPETH: To reverse the evil which has been done I make this offering to the Divine One A whore not, an innocent was, For whom I seized a virgin's Goddess of Light, Goddess of Lust, To undo this awful spell is a real must. To bring you life and get you high I offer the sweat of five men's
JEZEBEL: Goddess of Light, Goddess of Lust, To undo this awful spell is a real must. To bring you life and get you high I offer the sweat of five men's
RAVEN: Diana, oh great one, we live without sun Until this wicked curse is undone. In hope that you live, and to us appear, I have collected a year's worth of tears. Great Goddess Diana, fail you I will, I was to bring fresh sperm from my Bill. I had him erect, and his semen would follow But alas I was hot, so hot that I swallowed.
EVA: Great Goddess Diana, fail you I will, I was to bring fresh sperm from my Bill. I had him erect, and his semen would follow But alas I was hot, so hot that I swallowed.
ATHENA: You stupid little witch! You swallowed the sperm! Aye-yiyi!
ELSPETH: It just shows what an amazing lack of control you have over yourself, Honey, why didn't you just use your hands? Didn't your mama teach you not to put them things in your mouth?
JEZEBEL: Honey, why didn't you just use your hands? Didn't your mama teach you not to put them things in your mouth?
RAVEN: I understand though.
ATHENA: There is no time to cry over swallowed sperms. You're gonna have to get some, baby. You have one hour to prove what kind of witch you really
ATHENA: ( calling out ) What do you want?!
TED: Ted. the bellboy.
ATHENA: Mr. Bellboy, come right in!
TED: Here's the things you asked for. Oh, and uhh, sorry, but I'm not gonna pick the eyes outta this dead fish.
ATHENA: ( handing Ted 50 bucks ) Okay, mister, here's your fifty-dollar tip, only, you have to do one more thing. make our little Eva smile. Can you? We'll leave you alone. ( to Eva, firmly ) And don't use your mouth!
ELSPETH: If she doesn't get his goop in ten minutes, I'm going to take him myself.
JEZEBEL: Ha! That'll be a first for you.
ELSPETH: Oh shit Kiva!
ELSPETH: And just where do you think you're Well, gawd I need a candy bar or something you haven't fed me all day. I'm getting all shaky. My blood sugar's really low.
KIVA: Well, gawd I need a candy bar or something you haven't fed me all day. I'm getting all shaky. My blood sugar's really low.
JEZEBEL: Elspeth honestly now some babysitter you're turnin' out ta be!
ATHENA: Enough, girls. I will collect fresh earth. Jezebel, I want you to gather damp moss. Raven, you bring me a birch branch.
TED: Help me out, lady. I gotta earn this fifty bucks!
EVA: Oh look, they don't care if I smile or not! All they want is.
EVA: You won't understand, believe me.
TED: Try me. I've been around, y'know.
EVA: Well. okay. The five of us Elspeth, Jezebel, Athena, Raven and me are a coven.
TED: Ha, like a coven of witches?
EVA: ( stunned )
TED: ( stunned )
TED: I knew that!
EVA: ( getting calmer ) And you see, our coven has spent forty years trying to perfect a ritual to undo a wicked curse put on our goddess Diana.
TED: Gee, you don't look a day over twenty!
EVA: Oh. ha ha. I mean the witches before us tried and failed. But Athena, our High Priestess, discovered a great potion to reverse the evil spell which turned our beautiful goddess into an old rock.
TED: ( looking at the rock ) Yeah? Is. is that her?
EVA: She was a beautiful virgin. An entertainer by trade, but a great sorceress by design. It was here in this very room, on her wedding night, a jealous rival placed the curse on She turned to that here?
TED: She turned to that here?
EVA: Yes. and her young husband turned into a pink fish! They found him swimming in the pool in circles. While our dear goddess: a stone in her honeymoon bed.
EVA: This was Diana.
TED: This girl here? This is the goddess
TED: I hate to tell you this, but I kinda doubt she was a virgin.
EVA: Oh, but she was! She had lovers, but she saved that for marriage. Which is the example I've tried to follow: to do everything but that till I
TED: Hey, don't cry. a virgin is a rare and beautiful thing. If you say she was a virgin, I'll believe it.
EVA: Well, it doesn't matter now. and she won't be resurrected tonight 'cause I failed her. I let my whole coven down!
TED: Wait a sec that rock was gonna turn back into this?
TED: Now, that would be something worth Only, not now we were each supposed to bring something a life fluid.
EVA: Only, not now we were each supposed to bring something a life fluid.
TED: ( wincing in disgust ) If this is gonna be like one of those afterbirth conversations, I don't think I wanna hear this.
EVA: Only. I swallowed it.
TED: You swallowed what? You mean, you were supposed to bring. like. like a guy's. and
TED: You mean, you were supposed to bring. like. like a guy's. and
EVA: And now, you're my last chance!
TED: ( laughing ) Yeah, sure. ( then panic ) Whoa, what? You want my for the witchy poo ahh no no way nope. Besides, it's against hotel policy. I was warned: "No sex with the clientele"!
TED: Ha, c'mon now, joke's over. Hey, we're gonna step in the flea That's not flea powder, that's sacred dust ground from the horns of Albino Right! I knew that!
EVA: That's not flea powder, that's sacred dust ground from the horns of Albino Right! I knew that!
TED: Right! I knew that!
TED: What's a nice girl like you doing in a coven, anyway?
EVA: Well, see, what I really want to do is be a midwife. I've attended four births already! I can prevent vaginal tears and everything.
TED: ( trying to dodge her hexing eyes ) Well, that's a good thing! A guy doesn't like surprises down there.
EVA: I joined the coven to attain greater understanding of my feminine power so I could become a truly great Oh, well, I see you've been gaining a lot of insight into your. girl
TED: ( the hex working now ) Oh, well, I see you've been gaining a lot of insight into your. girl
EVA: Do you really think so?
TED: ( buckling under the temptation ) Well, yeah, I'd say that seems to be the case. ( she licks his neck; his eyes roll back heavenly ) Ohhh, God! Betty's gonna kill me!
EVA: Who's Betty your girlfriend?
TED: No. My boss.
EVA: Oh good!
TED: Oh no!
EVA: My phone number in Topanga. Call me?
TED: ( cocky ) Sure, baby. Yeah, I'll give ya a
KIVA: What's that used for?
RAVEN: It's a birch branch, symbolizing eternal life. You can also use the bark for a tea which assists in astral Hey I wanna be a witch!
KIVA: Hey I wanna be a witch!
EVA: I'm a woman now!
ATHENA: But where is his "stuff"?
EVA: ( pointing to the Jacuzzi ) We did it right there, in the big Ooohhh honey, you're gonna be sore tomorra! Didn't your mama teach you that water strips a girl's Sex in water is great in the movies, not in real life. but you will learn. As we all did.
JEZEBEL: Ooohhh honey, you're gonna be sore tomorra! Didn't your mama teach you that water strips a girl's Sex in water is great in the movies, not in real life. but you will learn. As we all did.
RAVEN: Sex in water is great in the movies, not in real life. but you will learn. As we all did.
JEZEBEL: Yeah, when she can't walk. I guess you wouldn't have those kinds of problems without penetration.
ELSPETH: No. And virtually no cervical cancer, Okay, girls, enough Sex Education 101, let's get going with our ritual,
ATHENA: Okay, girls, enough Sex Education 101, let's get going with our ritual,
EVA: Goddess Diana, I offer you The jism of one I wooed for you That you may live and know such bliss Of getting laid by a guy like this.
HOURS LATER: Athena reads from a huge leatherbound book, The Book of Shadows, full of potions and spells. Four discouraged witches pack their bags. The room has been restored to its worldly under-splendor. Kiva uses the remote on the TV. so much for witchcraft. The slab of rock remains a slab.
ATHENA: I don't understand what went wrong.
ELSPETH: I say Eva pulled one over on us.
EVA: Honey Eva was wearing the face of someone just fucked good. and the best actress in this world, or any other, can't fake a thing like that!
JEZEBEL: Honey Eva was wearing the face of someone just fucked good. and the best actress in this world, or any other, can't fake a thing like that!
ELSPETH: Exactly if she was fucked so good, how could she save his come?
RAVEN: It could be done.
ATHENA: Girls, knock it off. Maybe. maybe it needed to be the sperm of a virgin male.
EVA: ( dreamily ) He was no virgin!
ATHENA: Let's leave her here, with the sword, until dawn. I will come back for her before checkout time. I just. feel too sad to carry her away before the sun comes up to warm her.
JEZEBEL: ( cuddling her cat ) I can't believe we have to carry our own bags out! My mama would have a hissy fit!
KIVA: ( flirtatiously ) I'll carry your bags.
ELSPETH: ( firmly ) You're carrying my bags!
ATHENA: Next year, we try again with virgin
FOUR ROOMS: FADE UP ON: INT. MON SIGNOR LOBBYNIGHT Ted behind the desk, on the phone. We only hear his side.
TED: Oh, Jesus, what did I tell you? Do you want milk and cookies, or do you I can't turn on an adult station without permission from your parents. That's not what the machine tells You be good and you'll get milk and cookies, but for now leave me alone, please. I'll be up later to put you both to sleep.
TED: ( to himself ) Goddamn kids.
TED: Room Service.
YUPPIE SCUM: What room am I in?
TED: This is the front desk, sir. What room are we in?
YUPPIE SCUM: What room are we in?
REAL THEODORE: How should I know? I just got here.
YUPPIE SCUM: ( into phone ) You know, don't you have one of those light things?
TED: If you care to go to the door and look on the other side, you'll find the room number.
YUPPIE SCUM: ( to Real Theodore ) Call my assistant and ask her what floor we're on.
REAL THEODORE: Who's your assistant?
YUPPIE SCUM: The girl you party with every night.
REAL THEODORE: ( to himself ) I'm here alone, sir.
TED: I'm here alone, sir.
REAL THEODORE: It's room 404, I think.
YUPPIE SCUM: I could have sworn we were on the fifth floor.
REAL THEODORE: Right. 404.
YUPPIE SCUM: ( into phone ) Right. 404.
TED: What do you need, sir?
YUPPIE SCUM: ( to Real Theodore ) What do we need?
REAL THEODORE: YUPPIE SCUM REAL THEODORE YUPPIE SCUM ( into phone ) YUPPIE SCUM
YUPPIE SCUM: REAL THEODORE YUPPIE SCUM ( into phone ) YUPPIE SCUM
REAL THEODORE: YUPPIE SCUM ( into phone ) YUPPIE SCUM
YUPPIE SCUM: ( into phone ) Yeah. Ice.
TED: YUPPIE SCUM
YUPPIE SCUM: Yeah. Ice.
TED: Right, sir. Ice. 404. I'll be with you momentarily.
ROOM 404: "THE WRONG MAN"
TED: Anybody home?
MAN'S VOICE: No one here but us chickens.
TED: Say, it's pretty dark in here, sir.
MAN'S VOICE: What do you expect, Theodore, a fuckin' floor show?
TED: Do I know you?
MAN'S VOICE: I don't know. Do you?
TED: I brought your ice.
SIGFRIED: That's cute. In fact, the whole getup's kind of cute. The monkey suit's a nice touch, honey puss.
TED: This has to be a mistake. Is this room 404?
SIGFRIED: Theodore? What do you take me for, A very upset man?
TED: A very upset man?
SIGFRIED: ( to Angela ) I am an upset man, Theodore.
TED: How do you know my name, sir?
SIGFRIED: I'm psychic, Theodore.
TED: Look my name is Ted, actually, and I have no idea what's going on here, but I've obviously come at a bad Let's not belabor the fact that you have no sense of timing, Theodore. The fact is you're here.
SIGFRIED: Let's not belabor the fact that you have no sense of timing, Theodore. The fact is you're here.
SIGFRIED: ( continuing ) And I couldn't think of a better time for you to introduce me to your beau than on New Year's Eve.
TED: Oh fuck, there's a mistake. You're fucking wrong here. My name is Theodore, yes! My mother named me that and I hate the name. But I'm a fucking bellhop. People call me Ted. I work here.
SIGFRIED: Look, I'd love to sit here all night with you talking about things like when you broke in your first mitt That was insensitive of me, wasn't it, T H E O D O R E? But let's cut to the chase, okay?
TED: So apologize!
SIGFRIED: So apologize!
TED: For what?
SIGFRIED: You are really beginning to annoy me, Theodore.
TED: Look, obviously you two are working something out and if I could help you with your problem I would.
SIGFRIED: What are you saying? Are you saying I got a problem? Are you trying to say I don't give her what she needs? That I'm FUCKING INSENSITIVE!!
TED: Look, is this about another man? Or
SIGFRIED: Let's get our ABC's right, here, Theodore. Theodore, right?
TED: Ted's better.
SIGFRIED: Ted, okay. Are you saying my wife cheats on me?
TED: I didn't say that. I.
SIGFRIED: Oh, for Christ's sake, Theodore, this is about as intimate a situation as you can get, you, me, and Angela here. It's pretty cozy. To say nothing of how stupid an idea it is to lie to a man with a loaded gun without considering the possible response. I demand an apology!
SIGFRIED: Don't move. I've got to take this.
SIGFRIED: ( into phone ) ( pause ) We ain't got any needles here, kid. Just a big fucking gun.
SIGFRIED: ( to Ted ) Now, where was I? Oh yeah, I remember.
SIGFRIED: I want you to pray for forgiveness,
SIGFRIED: ( continuing ) Now say after me, "I apologize."
TED: I apologize.
SIGFRIED: For what?
SIGFRIED: For fucking what?
TED: That I said you might have been "That I said you might have been unfaithful?" Listen, Theodore, you're in church here. you're kneeling in front of an altar. Truth. truth is all it hears. Say the following, "I, Theodore, must humbly and sincerely apologize for saying that you fucked another man!"
SIGFRIED: "That I said you might have been unfaithful?" Listen, Theodore, you're in church here. you're kneeling in front of an altar. Truth. truth is all it hears. Say the following, "I, Theodore, must humbly and sincerely apologize for saying that you fucked another man!"
SIGFRIED: ( continuing )
SIGFRIED: ( continuing ) Do you accept the fucking apology?
SIGFRIED: ( continuing ) You always gotta get the last word, don't you? It's one way with you, Angela, isn't it? I give and I give and I get nothing back.
SIGFRIED: ( continuing ) She just sits there waiting for me to jump through hoops.
SIGFRIED: ( continuing ) Stupid me, for a second I thought you were going to say something. something like, "I'm sorry." HA! "I'm sorry." You're absolutely right, love cakes, I wouldn't want it that way. That's one thing you can say about Angela. She'll never do anything she doesn't want to do. If the feeling ain't there, she just isn't going to do it. There is nothing in this world as fucked as a woman who gives when she doesn't want to. Never let that happen to you, Theodore. It makes you feel very little indeed.
TED: You mind if I.?
SIGFRIED: Go ahead. Spit it out.
TED: I don't mean to upset you further, sir, but I think she was trying to say yes.
SIGFRIED: Are you condescending to me, Theodore?
TED: Absolutely not, I would never do Why don't you just say it?
SIGFRIED: Why don't you just say it?
TED: Say what?
SIGFRIED: That you think I'm an idiot.
TED: I would never say that.
SIGFRIED: You think you're superior to me, don't ya, Theodore? You don't think I notice there is a gag in the woman's Of course you do.
TED: Of course you do.
SIGFRIED: Naturally "of course." And do you know how I know that?
TED: How, sir?
SIGFRIED: Because I PUT THE GAG IN HER MOUTH! I'm gonna let you in on a little secret about communication, Theodore. It's all in the eyes. Or me? Him or me? No one? Okay. Let's drag it out.
TED: We don't have time to play charades here, asshole! Untie me quick.
ANGELA: We don't have time to play charades here, asshole! Untie me quick.
TED: Listen, lady, I don't know what in the hell is going on here, but I'd appreciate it if you would explain to that nutcase that he's making a big mistake.
ANGELA: Look, whether you like it or not, you're in the middle of a situation here you can't just wish your way out of.
TED: But I've never seen you people before, we're complete strangers.
ANGELA: Everyone starts out strangers, Ted, it's where we end up that counts. Hurry up. I don't know if I can do this. It's too hard.
TED: I don't know if I can do this. It's too hard.
ANGELA: Life is hard, Ted. You ever stopped to consider how many times you change your underwear in a lifetime?
ANGELA: I don't mean literally, you ignoramus.
TED: Forget it, listen to me. There's a gun in my suitcase behind the bed, it's loaded.
ANGELA: Forget it, listen to me. There's a gun in my suitcase behind the bed, it's loaded.
TED: I'm not going to shoot anybody.
ANGELA: Fine. Get the gun and I'll shoot And make me an accessory in the murder of your husband?
TED: And make me an accessory in the murder of your husband?
TED: That's not fair. It just isn't fair.
ANGELA: Get a fucking grip on yourself. First off, who says he's my husband? And second, we are a long way from fair here, fair is back in jolly old England eatin' crumpets and sipping on tea.
TED: Tut. Tut. Tut. Not so fast. Well, maybe there are two sides to this There are two sides to a plate, still you only eat off of one. Now GET THE
ANGELA: There are two sides to a plate, still you only eat off of one. Now GET THE
GUN!: So why's he got you tied up?
TED: So why's he got you tied up?
ANGELA: I'm a werewolf, Ted! Get the gun!
ANGELA: Come on, Ted. Come over here just for a minute. You can do it. Come on, Ted. You look like a good guy.
ANGELA: That's it, Teddy. You look so much more attractive when you're self- Quick, he's coming back. Put the gag back in, and remember the gun!
ANGELA: ( she panics ) Quick, he's coming back. Put the gag back in, and remember the gun!
TED: Nine thousand, three hundred and twenty-two times, to the best of my
SIGFRIED: I was just beginning to think I could trust you, Theodore. Silly me.
TED: I was just trying to help her breathe a little.
SIGFRIED: Don't let me stop you, Teddy. You don't mind me calling you Teddy, do That's fine.
TED: That's fine.
SIGFRIED: I used to have a little bunny rabbit named Teddy, it looked real cute nibbling on Angela's ear. Only problem here is you're no bunny rabbit, Theodore, and it really fuckin' razzes me to picture you doin' it. But don't let me stop you, Teddy. no need to play sneaky-poo.
TED: Look, man, if this is some kind of Voodoo thing and you want me to have sex with your wife, there is absolutely no way.
SIGFRIED: ( shouts at the top of his lungs ) I said, nibble, asshole! Now!
TED: ( whispers ) Sorry, lady.
SIGFRIED: What's the matter, no whiz left in the cheese? I'm not cramping your style, am I?
TED: Look, I'm not playing this game
SIGFRIED: It's almost all over, Theodore, and soon you can go home to Mommy.
TED: My name is not Theodore, it's TED,
SIGFRIED: My name is Sigfried.
TED: My name is Sigfried.
SIGFRIED: My name is Sigfried.
TED: Sigfried cuts a "Something wrong with that?" look at Ted.
SIGFRIED: Yah, Sigfried.
TED: Nice to meet you, Sigfried.
SIGFRIED: Very impressive, Ted. "Theo the Thumper?". Ouch. It's a deal, kid. Ted it will be.
TED: Sigfried holds onto Ted's hand. The soft sound of distant fireworks pops in the background. Car horns and a muffled countdown signal that it's New Year's. Sigfried moves uncomfortably close to Ted and from out of nowhere bolts forward, planting a wet kiss right on Ted's mouth. Something snaps in Sigfried. He is either really getting off on this or he is caught in the grips of a seizure. He doubles back on the floors. Ted and Angela watch as he flops around like a flounder with the cocked gun waving all over the place. Ted wipes his mouth with his jacket sleeve while trying to dodge the barrel of the gun.
TED: You okay, mister? I'll get help!
TED: ( continuing ) That's the wrong door, sir.
SIGFRIED: Get me the nitro. it's in the bathroom cabinet. Now!
TED: No answer. Something's wrong with the guy, all the blood is drained from his face and he is mumbling something.
TED: Listen, I'm stuck here in a situation that I can't even begin to explain, but would you be so kind as to get help? Could you call the police, You okay?
TED: ( continuing ) You okay?
TED: He heads toward the door and, from out of the corner of his eye, he spots Sigfried's hairy leg. Sigfried has passed out on the floor. Angela's chair has been knocked on its side. Ted races over to help lift her back up. He pulls the gag from her mouth. Angela jumps all over him.
ANGELA: Where's the fucking nitro?
TED: I couldn't find it!
ANGELA: You took long enough. Untie me, for Christ's sake, you fucking upset him and he's dying.
TED: I thought you wanted to kill him.
ANGELA: You'd make a great cop, Theodore.
TED: I can't handle this alone, I'd better get help.
SIGFRIED: I tie a pretty good knot, don't I, Thank God you're okay.
TED: Thank God you're okay.
SIGFRIED: Never felt better.
ANGELA: You bastard!
SIGFRIED: ( to Angela ) Come on, honey, don't get mad. It was just a little test, and I'm glad I did it because now I'll know forever that you really do love me. Truly and deeply.
ANGELA: If the simple fact that I didn't want your bloated, dead body lying out on the floor is love, then no wonder we find ourselves as we are at this very fucking moment.
SIGFRIED: Oh, no. I heard you and there was genuine care in that voice. Can't be denied. Can it, Ted?
TED: I think you're right and, if you just keep this kind of open dialogue going, you'll go a long way to resolving this misunderstanding.
TED: ( continuing ) You'd be surprised what happens when people just listen to each other without succumbing to all that pain and anger.
ANGELA: You heard shit, monkey boy. Easy for you to say after you fuck another man's wife. You should at least have the guts to stand by your convictions.
TED: That's a lie, Sigfried. I swear to
ANGELA: When I think of all the times you were inside me promising me a better life, it makes me want to puke. Why are you doing this? What have I ever done to you people?
TED: Why are you doing this? What have I ever done to you people?
ANGELA: What didn't you do, stick man? Unfortunately, you don't have the balls to back up the actions of your huge cock. He's got a huge cock?
SIGFRIED: ( whimpering ) He's got a huge cock?
TED: She's lying again, mister. It's not that big.
SIGFRIED: Show it to me.
TED: Come on, man, she's lying. Can't you see she's fucking with you?
ANGELA: Put it this way, God made up for what he did to Gumby with Ted here.
SIGFRIED: Show it to me.
ANGELA: Show him your cock, Theodore.
SIGFRIED: Stop talking about his cock, will It's hard to stop talking about something so huge. I could go on and on about his cock, bone, nob, bishop, wang, thang, hotrod. Hump mobile, Oscar, dong, dagger, banana, cucumber, salami. Sausage, kielbasa, schlong, dink, tool, Big Ben, Mister Happy, prick, disk, pecker, peter, pee-pee, wee-wee, weiner, pisser, pistol, joint, hose, horn, middle-leg, third- leg, meat, stick, joystick, dipstick.
ANGELA: It's hard to stop talking about something so huge. I could go on and on about his cock, bone, nob, bishop, wang, thang, hotrod. Hump mobile, Oscar, dong, dagger, banana, cucumber, salami. Sausage, kielbasa, schlong, dink, tool, Big Ben, Mister Happy, prick, disk, pecker, peter, pee-pee, wee-wee, weiner, pisser, pistol, joint, hose, horn, middle-leg, third- leg, meat, stick, joystick, dipstick.
ANGELA: ( continuing ) Junior, the little head, little guy, Rumple Foreskin, Tootsie Roll. Snake, one-eyed monster, one-eyed wonder, shaft, sword, meat whistle, skin flute, love muscle, Roto-Rooter, instrument, banger, rammer, ramrod, cherrypicker, log, pole.
SIGFRIED: Please, don't leave me. I'll call you Ted from now on.
TED: It's not me, mister, I swear.
SIGFRIED: Personally, I don't give a fuck, Ted, it's just I don't want to be alone right now. I'm feeling a little No guns, okay? Just you and me, Ted. You know my father used to say that forgiveness is the only thing that evil can't sink its teeth into.
SIGFRIED: ( continuing ) No guns, okay? Just you and me, Ted. You know my father used to say that forgiveness is the only thing that evil can't sink its teeth into.
TED: That's beautiful.
SIGFRIED: Kind of nice down here on the floor, isn't it, Ted?
TED: Yes, actually.
SIGFRIED: Things take on a whole new perspective. You'd like my trust, wouldn't you, Ted?
TED: Yes I would.
SIGFRIED: I just got one thing to ask you and I'll let you go.
TED: Okay. Okay.
SIGFRIED: Tell me straight now.
TED: What was it like?
SIGFRIED: What was it like?
TED: What was what like?
SIGFRIED: You know, you and her.
TED: Oh, for fuck sake, Sigfried, what do you want me to say?
SIGFRIED: Either way you're fucked, right? You ever gonna see her again, Theodore?
TED: If I ever saw her again, I'd run the other way.
SIGFRIED: I promise.
TED: I promise.
SIGFRIED: You're lying, but I can respect that, Ted. If you told me, it would no longer be a secret, and secrets have a power, kid. You open that box and they disappear forever. A bad secret will rip you apart, but the good one are all you got. In the end, when all the people you knew are dead and gone, all you'll have left are you secrets. And when you die, the box is open and it all blows away dust to dust all the anger, jealousy, desire and love just blow
SIGFRIED: ( continuing ) So you know what I say, let's call it a truce, kiddo.
SIGFRIED: ( continuing ) I'm a man of love, Theodore. Love is all I live for.
TED: I can see that.
SIGFRIED: Maybe to a fault.
TED: Don't beat yourself up over it.
SIGFRIED: That's nice of you to say, Ted, but I probably should make a clean break of it, cut her loose and get my own place. I just can't imagine living without her. Do you think I should seek professional help?
TED: It's not for everyone, but maybe in your case it could help.
SIGFRIED: You ever been out on the ocean at
SIGFRIED: ( continuing ) I have. scary as a motherfucker, all that darkness around you. It's like a big black carpet rolled out as far as the eye can see. Sometimes, if you're lucky, you'll see a light. It could be as small as a little spark, but it will cut a path straight through all that blackness, straight to you. It could be another boat, or some distant fire on an island, but that light will shed a shining path of diamonds cutting through mile after mile of darkness to lie at your feet. That's love, Ted, it's like a path of light in an ocean of
ANGELA: ( to Ted ) You'd better go check to see if I killed anybody downstairs.
TED: You people gonna be okay?
ANGELA: We're fine, Ted.
TED: Would you like me to.?
ANGELA: Another time, Ted.
YOUNG GUY: Happy New Year, buddy.
TED: Happy New Year.
YOUNG GUY: I was just in room 404, what a party! You know where room 409 is at?
TED: Beats me. It's somewhere around here.
TED: ( continuing ) Hey, what's your name?
FADE OUT: FADE TO BLACK STORY TITLE CARD: FADE UP THE FRONT DESK SUPER: 10:30 p.m. Ted is relaxing at the front desk. He breathes slowly. He finally has one moment's peace after an already long night. He even has a chance to straighten his tie. The phone RINGS.
ROOM 716: "THE MISBEHAVERS"
"THE MISBEHAVERS": FADE UP THE FRONT DESK SUPER: 10:30 p.m. Ted is relaxing at the front desk. He breathes slowly. He finally has one moment's peace after an already long night. He even has a chance to straighten his tie. The phone RINGS.
FADE UP: THE FRONT DESK SUPER: 10:30 p.m. Ted is relaxing at the front desk. He breathes slowly. He finally has one moment's peace after an already long night. He even has a chance to straighten his tie. The phone RINGS.
TED: Front desk.
ROOM 716: CLOSE-UP of a cigarette hanging out of a Man's mouth as he speaks into the telephone.
MAN: Bottle of Moet et Chandon. Fast.
MAN: Give me that.
MAN: There. see? You look cool with your hair up like this. Like me.
MAN: Not down and to the side, all stupid like your mom likes to comb it.
MAN: You've got your mother's hair.
MAN: I can't do anything with it.
MAN: There. Go.
WIFE: ( putting a plastic clip in Sarah's hair ) There. Go.
WIFE: ( mocking ) So, are we gonna have fun tonight? I didn't think so. ( shrugs ) Let's just leave the kids here.
WIFE: I didn't think so. Let's just leave the kids here.
MAN: Wife puts the lipstick down and turns to her husband. She is Wife glances out at the children, eyes glued to the tube.
MAN: ( shrugs ) Let's just leave the kids here.
WIFE: Here in the room? By themselves?
MAN: No. with the television.
MAN: You want to have fun tonight, don't They'll be fine.
WIFE: They'll be fine.
MAN: They'll be fine.
MAN: The children turn to face him.
MAN: You guys are going to stay here and watch TV.
MAN: I want you to be in bed asleep before twelve. Your mother and I will be back later on.
MAN: He blows one kiss. One for both of them. As Man and his Wife walk out the door, Man turns back to the He closes the door. Sarah stands in the middle of the room. She's looking at the door Man and Wife just disappeared through. Stunned. Her dress looks frilly and beautifully uncomfortable. She touches the edges of the fabric.
MAN: Don't misbehave.
SARAH: Why did we have to get all dressed up if we weren't going with them?
ROOM 716: Juancho shuts off the television. He drops the remote to the floor. His attention is on the fireworks outside. He leaps to the window and begins unlatching it.
SARAH: What are you doing?
JUANCHO: Escaping. Stinks in here, anyway.
MAN: ( stern ) What did I say?
MAN: Yes, Papa.
JUANCHO: Yes, Papa.
TED: The champagne you ordered, sir.
MAN: No time for this. Leave it on ice.
WIFE: But I want some now.
MAN: There'll be plenty for you and the party, baby, you can bomb yourself all you want at the party.
WIFE: What a waste.
MAN: ( to Ted )
MAN: You want five hundred bucks?
TED: Man hesitates a moment, then pulls out his wallet. That was too easy.
MAN: How about three?
TED: Three hundred?
MAN: Three's good.
TED: Three's good.
MAN: My children are staying here tonight watching TV. I want you to check up on them every thirty minutes.
TED: Check up on 'em?
MAN: Make sure they're all right, make sure they're fed, make sure they go to bed.
TED: We can call out and hire a babysitter.
MAN: I don't trust babysitters. My children are safer alone than with some fucked- up pedophile babysitter I don't know from the man in the fucking moon.
WIFE: What about him? What makes you think you can trust him?
MAN: Tell me that's not a face you can
TED: Look, sir, I'd like to help you out, but I really can't. I'm all alone here tonight.
MAN: One hundred. two hundred. three I thought you said five hundred.
TED: I thought you said five hundred.
MAN: I said three hundred.
TED: No, you distinctly said five hundred.
MAN: You calling me a liar?
TED: No, I'm not saying you're lying. I'm saying you accidentally forgot that what you first said was five hundred.
MAN: I don't do anything accidentally, jerk. I might've first said five hundred, but what I last said was three hundred, and what you say last is what counts.
TED: Well then, if you say five hundred one last time, we got a deal. You fuckin' with me, Pendejo?
MAN: You fuckin' with me, Pendejo?
TED: No, not at all. It's New Year's Eve and I'm here alone. If there was somebody else here, no problem, but I'm by myself. And looking after your kids is a pain in the ass I don't need
MAN: You callin' my kids a pain in the ass, it's the situation that's a pain in the ass.
TED: No, they're not a pain in the ass, it's the situation that's a pain in the ass.
MAN: No, you were right the first time. You win, tough guy, five hundred. You kids are getting expensive.
WIFE: ( disgusted ) You kids are getting expensive.
MAN: ( looking at name tag ) What's your name? Ted?
TED: Yeah. It's Ted.
MAN: ( to the children ) His name is Ted. If you need anything, dial 0 and ask for Ted.
BELLHOP.": Sarah looks up at Ted. She clips the pin to her dress and smiles shyly at him. Man puts the money in Ted's pocket and then grabs his ear, pulling him close.
MAN: ( deadly whisper ) If something happens to my children, I wouldn't want to be you.
WIFE: Make sure they're in bed before Before midnight? Then should I wake them up for the countdown to the New
TED: ( thinking ) Before midnight? Then should I wake them up for the countdown to the New
WIFE: As Man and Wife exit, he turns to the kids and says:
MAN: Don't misbehave.
ROOM 716: Ted is standing facing the door the Man and Wife just disappeared through. He turns around slowly to face the His eyes are wide. His face is quiet. Stern. The children are staring at him.
TED: Okay. These are the rules. Don't break the rules and I won't break your necks.
TED: ( smiling ) I always wanted to say that. Someone said that to me when I was a kid.
TED: Except they were joking. I'm not.
TED: The rules are simple. Don't do anything you wouldn't do if your parents were here. If there's an emergency, call me on the phone, like your dad said.
SARAH: That's not what he said.
SARAH: He said to call if we need anything.
TED: Well, I've got a lot of work to do and I can't have you calling me every time you want a drink of water, so please limit your calls to emergencies We paid you five hundred dollars. We'll call you if we need anything. You don't want to upset my dad.
SARAH: We paid you five hundred dollars. We'll call you if we need anything. You don't want to upset my dad.
TED: Okay. Please. Try to call only when necessary. Watch TV, and if you're good, I'll bring up some milk and cookies. Bye.
SARAH: Your feet stink.
JUANCHO: They don't stink.
JUANCHO: Check it out. T
SARAH: Change it. You're not supposed to watch this.
JUANCHO: We're supposed to watch TV.
SARAH: Not this kind of TV. Change it.
FRONT DESK: Ted walks up to the front desk just as the phone rings.
TED: Front desk.
SARAH: Ted? Hi. It's me, Sarah. You're our sitter for tonight.
TED: Oh, Jesus, what did I tell you? I said if you don't bother me, you'll get milk and cookies. Now, do you want them or do you not?
SARAH: I want you to turn off the Nudie station in our room.
TED: ( reading stats on room 716 ) I can't turn on an adult station without permission from your parents.
SARAH: ( struggling with winter tights ) Not turn it on, turn it off. It's already on.
TED: That's not what the machine tells Well, stop listening to the machine and listen to me. There's naked ladies dancing on my TV and I want 'em off.
SARAH: Well, stop listening to the machine and listen to me. There's naked ladies dancing on my TV and I want 'em off.
TED: If you're good, you'll get milk and cookies, so leave me alone, please. I'll be up later to put you both to
ROOM 716: Angry, Sarah slams down the phone. She has an unusually adult temper. We know where she gets it from. She looks up and sees that the nudies are still in full force.
SARAH: Change the channel, now!
JUANCHO: Man, you're the one with the stinky
SARAH: They don't stink.
JUANCHO: Yeah, they do.
SARAH: Here, smell for yourself. Go ahead.
SARAH: Go ahead.
JUANCHO: ( holding up the bottle ) Hey, get a bottle opener!
FRONT DESK: Ted, bucket of ice in his hand, gets ready to go to room 404. As he crosses the desk, the phone rings. He looks at the board and see room 716's light blinking. He sighs in exasperation.
SARAH: Don't shake it! Ted? Hi. It's me. Sarah.
TED: Yeah. Who died? No one? Then don't call me.
SARAH: I thought I'd tell you that your cleaning ladies are doing a bum job. There's all kinds of leftover stuff around here.
SARAH: Needles and things. We're not supposed to have needles here, are we? I mean, they don't come with the room, do they? Send someone up here to clean this place up right.
SARAH: ( to Juancho )
SARAH: I'm calling another room, give me three numbers.
JUANCHO: Sarah punches in the room number. The phone rings. She holds the needle up to the light to examine it.
SARAH: Hello? Hi. You don't know me, and I don't know you, but. do you have any needles? We've got needles here and I was wondering if they come with the room or not. Don't have any? Thanks. Just checking.
ROOM 716: Sarah stands atop the chest of drawers and uses the lipstick to draw a bull's-eye on one of the hotel art paintings. She writes numbers next to each circle representing points. Juancho is standing at the foot of the bed, cigarette hanging out of his mouth, as he practices his dart-throwing technique.
SARAH: ( pointing out the rules ) The center is the bull's eye, 100 points, this one's 10 points, this one's 20 points. Hey, wait a minute. Let me get out of the way!
SARAH: Hey, wait a minute. Let me get out of the way!
TED: I brought you some milk and cookies. If you want some you have to eat them now, because you're going to We're going to sleep now?
SARAH: We're going to sleep now?
TED: Your parents said put you to bed before midnight. Well, it's before midnight. Maybe that way you'll leave me alone.
SARAH: Those aren't milk and cookies.
TED: We were out of cookies, so I brought you milk and Saltines. Don't complain! Now hurry up and eat. You're going to bed right now.
JUANCHO: These are old.
SARAH: They're stale.
TED: ( impatient ) Dip 'em in the milk! The milk will make them soft.
TED: No crackers? Okay, fine. Sleepy time. Now, I don't want you guys wandering around, so if you need to go to the restroom, go now.
JUANCHO: What about our pajamas?
TED: You wanna look nice in case there's an earthquake, don'tcha?
TED: Okay. Then stay in those clothes. What's that?
SARAH: What's that?
TED: Oh, this is just some Mentholatum ointment. Come on, under the covers. Close your eyes and I'll tell you a
TED: Your dad says he doesn't trust babysitters. I don't blame him. You know what my babysitter did to me I never told my parents, either.
TED: I hated going to sleep. You know, it's nighttime and you wanna run around and act crazy. So what my babysitter did to make sure I'd go to sleep and not be tempted to get up, was, she'd take some of this vapor rub stuff. Can you smell
TED: Well, she'd just dab a little of this over each eyelid, so that I would be sure and keep my eyes closed all night. There. Now you've got some, too! Don't open your eyes or it'll burrrn, burn, burn. The smell helps clear your sinuses too, so it's doing double What happens when it's morning?
TED: There. Now you've got some, too! Don't open your eyes or it'll burrrn, burn, burn. The smell helps clear your sinuses too, so it's doing double What happens when it's morning?
JUANCHO: What happens when it's morning?
TED: If you keep your eyes closed all night, it will wear off by morning. But DON'T OPEN YOUR EYES BEFORE
SARAH: Did you ever open your eyes?
TED: Yes. I did.
TED: And now look at me.
CHILDREN: ( in unison ) We can't.
TED: Good. You'll do just fine. Sleep well and I won't tell your parents about the champagne.
JUANCHO: Are you watching TV?
SARAH: Yep. If you wanna watch too, you have to go wash your face.
SARAH: Be careful.
CLOSE ON: Ted's phone ringing. Ted looks at the phone as if pondering whether or not to answer it. He taps his fingers. Finally he answers the phone.
ROOM 716: What do you want now, for Christ's sake! Who died?
SARAH: What do you want now, for Christ's sake! Who died?
TED: What do you want now, for Christ's sake! Who died?
SARAH: ( near tears ) I don't know, but she's in my bed!
TED: There's a dead body in my bed!
SARAH: There's a dead body in my bed!
TED: That's just your brother. Sound No, there's a woman's dead body inside the bed, in the mattress.
SARAH: No, there's a woman's dead body inside the bed, in the mattress.
TED: You saw the body?
SARAH: Impossible. You've got ointment on your eyes! You can't see shit! Now go to sleep!
TED: Impossible. You've got ointment on your eyes! You can't see shit! Now go to sleep!
TED: Godammit, go to sleep!
SARAH: ( crying now ) I washed it off.
TED: You washed off the ointment?
SARAH: ( pissed, drunk ) Yeah, didn't you ever think to do
SARAH: ( through cigarette ) You never tried it, did you? Then you agree I'm smarter than you.
TED: All right. Now you listen to me.
SARAH: Get your ass up here and call the police, because there's a dead body in my bed and it smells like shit and it looks even worse, and if you don't help us, my dad is gonna lay you down right next to her, I swear to fucking God!
JUANCHO: Go, sis.
TED: ( incensed ) I'm coming up and if there isn't a dead body by the time I get there, I'll make one myself. You!
FRONT DESK: Ted slams down the phone. As he walks away from the counter, he spots the children's parents driving up to the valet out front.
TED: Oh shit!
ROOM 716: Sarah continues to cover the body with the mattress.
ELEVATOR: Close on Ted's face as the elevator car races up seven floors.
LOBBY: The Man is carrying his drunk Wife through the lobby. Not ROOM 716 Ted bursts into the room. He sees the disarray. Ted pushes the champagne out of Sarah's hand, spilling it onto the floor.
ROOM 716: Ted bursts into the room. He sees the disarray. Ted pushes the champagne out of Sarah's hand, spilling it onto the floor.
TED: What the fuck is going on??!!
TED: Your parents are on their way up and I'm not taking responsibility for this mess!
SARAH: Check under the mattress!
TED: For what?
SARAH: ( crying ) For the body, can't you smell it?
TED: It's your feet!
TED: ( gurgles through vomit- spewing lips ) Jesus fucking Christ! What the fuck is this?
TED: ( into the phone ) Police, it's an emergency! ( pause ) Hello, Police, this is the Mon Signor Hotel, get someone up here right fucking now, there's a DEAD WHORE stuffed under the mattress!
SARAH: Don't call her that.
TED: ( into the phone ) I'm dead fucking serious, there's a dead fucking Whore stuffed in the bedsprings of the fucking bed!
SARAH: Stop calling her that!!
TED: Sarah steps back, almost tripping over the champagne bottle. She picks up the bottle and holds it defensively in case Ted tries to retaliate. Ted spins around, now noticing the needle sticking out of his leg.
FUCK!!: Sarah steps back, almost tripping over the champagne bottle. She picks up the bottle and holds it defensively in case Ted tries to retaliate. Ted spins around, now noticing the needle sticking out of his leg.
TED: Juancho lights up another cigarette. The champagne spill has spread to the fallen cigarette butt. The carpet bursts into flames around the spill.
ROOM 716: Ted tries to pull the syringe out of his leg, but yanking it makes it break in two, the plunger in his hand, and the needle still stuck in his leg. Ted staggers and grabs hold of the dead woman's foot for support as he steps on the remote control, flipping the TV on to the Nudie channel, just as. Man opens the door. Man stands at the door, drunk Wife unconscious on one arm, the door knob in the other hand. He's looking mean. Man's POV: focused on the dead woman in the bedsprings. We pan up the dead woman's leg to find Ted holding her foot. We pan down Ted's leg to find the hypodermic needle jutting out. then pan over to the other hand holding the broken syringe plunger. We pan over to the Nudie channel, then down to the fire blazing behind the children. Pan up to the dripping champagne bottle in Sarah's hand, then over to the cigarette hanging out of Juancho's mouth. Juancho tosses his cigarette out of his mouth to an area behind him. Another blaze starts Man drops his Wife to the floor. In the WIDE SHOT of Ted and the children, we see that the fireworks are bursting big and bright outside the window behind them. Almost as bright as the flames eating through the room. Man simply glares at Ted. Finally Man speaks.
MAN: Did they misbehave?
FOUR ROOMS: FADE UP ON INT. HOTEL LOBBYNIGHT SUPER: ONE MINUTE AFTER ROBERT'S STORY. TWENTY MINUTES BEFORE The elevator rides down to the lobby. The doors open and a wet, disheveled, and frantic Ted steps out. He staggers across the lobby to the reception desk. He grabs the phone.
GUINNESS GIRL: Happy New Year!
TED: Let me speak to Betty.
GUINNESS GIRL: Party's over, she probably went home.
TED: She lives there.
GUINNESS GIRL: Oh, well, I haven't seen 'em in a Do you even know who I'm talking Yeah. yeah. yeah. I know 'em, I know Eddy.
TED: Do you even know who I'm talking Yeah. yeah. yeah. I know 'em, I know Eddy.
GUINNESS GIRL: Yeah. yeah. yeah. I know 'em, I know Eddy.
TED: Betty, not Eddy.
GUINNESS GIRL: Yeah. yeah. I know Betty too. No, not particularly. She's got curly red hair.
TED: No, not particularly. She's got curly red hair.
GUINNESS GIRL: No, no, no, no, no, I know, I know. Japanese girl.
TED: She's not Japanese! I just said she had red hair.
GUINNESS GIRL: Yeah. yeah. yeah. I know her.
TED: Well, then get her on the phone, it's an emergency.
GUINNESS GIRL: Who who should I say's calling?
TED: Tell 'em Teddy from work's on the phone, and it's a major fuckin' Gotcha, Betty from work.
GUINNESS GIRL: Gotcha, Betty from work.
TED: Not Betty from work, I'm calling Betty! I'm Teddy. Just say Ted.
GUINNESS GIRL: Hi, Ted, I'm Margaret. You sound down. Has this not been the happiest of New Year's?
TED: ( resigning himself to talking with Margaret ) No Margaret, this hasn't been my best New Year. This year's starting off pretty badly.
MARGARET: Awww, how come?
TED: Well, Betty the chick whose house you're at, even though you don't know her leaves me here all by myself on New Year's Eve. And first thing right off the bat, I'm fucked by a coven of witches.
MARGARET: An oven full of witches fucked you? Is that like at the circus when they stick all those clowns in an itty- bitty car?
TED: A coven. A coven of witches. Well, one witch in particular.
MARGARET: Was she an old hag with a mole, with hair growing out of it?
TED: No-no-no, she was. quite beautiful.
MARGARET: What's the problem?
TED: What's the problem?
MARGARET: What's the problem?
TED: Well, admittedly, that was the best part of the night. It was pretty fuckin' cool, actually. But it was still an unnerving way to start off the night.
MARGARET: Sounds to me like a pretty great way to start off the night.
TED: Okay, let's just skip over the
MARGARET: Skipping over the witches.
TED: So, later, in another room, some crazy sucking maniac sticks a gun in my face and forces me to play out some psychosexual drama with his He made you have psycho sex with his No, he didn't make me fuck his wife, he thought I'd fucked his wife! He held me at gunpoint with a loaded What kinda gun?
MARGARET: He made you have psycho sex with his No, he didn't make me fuck his wife, he thought I'd fucked his wife! He held me at gunpoint with a loaded What kinda gun?
TED: No, he didn't make me fuck his wife, he thought I'd fucked his wife! He held me at gunpoint with a loaded What kinda gun?
MARGARET: What kinda gun?
TED: I don't know, I'm not a gun guy. It was big.
MARGARET: Like Dirty Harry's gun.
TED: Yeah, something like that.
MARGARET: Did it have a real long barrel or a short barrel?
TED: What difference does it make?
MARGARET: Well, for one thing it's the difference between a .44 Magnum and a Magnum .357.
TED: Who cares if it was a .44 or a .392, it was a fuckin' loaded gun, pointed at my fuckin' head!
MARGARET: You wanna skip over this part, too?
TED: I want you to get Betty on the phone!
MARGARET: Hold on. Anybody live here named. What's her name again?
TED: The sleepy room stirs. Betty wakes up from the floor.
MARGARET: The sleepy room stirs. Betty wakes up from the floor.
BETTY: Yeah, whatcha screamin' about?
MARGARET: You're Betty?
BETTY: Yeah, I'm Betty, it's my fuckin' place, who the fuck are you?
MARGARET: I'm Margaret And this is Ted.
BETTY: Ted, what's the problem?
TED: What's the problem? I don't got a problem, I got fuckin' problems! Wanna hear?
BETTY: ( yawning, wiping sleep from her eyes ) Well, most recently, there's room 716. There's a scary Mexican gangster dude pokin' his finger in my chest. There's his hooligan kids snapping their fingers at me. There's the putrid rotting corpse of a dead whore stuffed in the springs of a bed. There're rooms blazing afire. There's a needle from God knows where stuck in my leg, infecting me with God knows what, and finally, there's me walking out the fuckin' door right now! Buenas noches.
TED: Well, most recently, there's room 716. There's a scary Mexican gangster dude pokin' his finger in my chest. There's his hooligan kids snapping their fingers at me. There's the putrid rotting corpse of a dead whore stuffed in the springs of a bed. There're rooms blazing afire. There's a needle from God knows where stuck in my leg, infecting me with God knows what, and finally, there's me walking out the fuckin' door right now! Buenas noches.
BETTY: ( suddenly alert ) Is that the penthouse?
TED: That's the Chester Rush party, they want something.
BETTY: That's the Chester Rush party, they want something.
TED: Yeah, well, tough titty. They're just gonna have to wait, 'cause I'm out the door.
BETTY: ( panicking ) Now, Ted, wait a minute. I know you're freaked, I know you're stressed. You've had a real bad night
TED: Yes, Betty, I've had-a-real-bad-night
BETTY: You say there's a dead body in a Yes, I did.
TED: Yes, I did.
BETTY: No problem, this is a hotel, we've had dead bodies before, it's just the price of doing business. You said the hotel was on fire. Is it still on fire?
TED: No, it's out.
BETTY: Good, sprinkler system worked like a charm. Now, you wanna leave, you've had enough. Perfectly understandable. I'll take care of everything else. The only thing I ask is that you take care of Chester Rush. Then you can leave.
TED: Now, look
BETTY: Ted, he's a very important guest of this hotel. In fact, he is the most important guest at the hotel. The Mon Signor used to be a haven for movie stars. Through the thirties and forties, and the first half of the fifties, more movie stars if you break it down on a night-by-night basis stayed at the Mon Signor than any other hotel in Hollywood. Now, we had some hard time in the eighties, even though we were the official hotel of Cannon Pictures, but we're coming back strong in the nineties. And a movie star clientele is important to that comeback. If we can keep stars of his magnitude happy, we're on our way. So, Ted, just take care of him, then you can leave.
TED: Look, I don't feel like
BETTY: He probably just wants some champagne! You can do that, can't you? Please just take care of him, the entire staff of the Mon Signor is begging
TED: Okay. But get your ass here pronto.
BETTY: You're a good man, Ted. Thanks.
TED: Hello, Mr. Rush. Sorry for the delay. How can I help you?
THE PENTHOUSE: "THE MAN FROM HOLLYWOOD"
ANGELA: Hi, Theodore.
TED: What the hell are you doing here?
ANGELA: Having a drink.
TED: Is that crazy husband of yours in Are you kidding, he'll be asleep till Christmas.
ANGELA: Are you kidding, he'll be asleep till Christmas.
CHESTER: ( still sitting ) Entrez, entrez, come in, come in.
TED: ( wheeling in the tray ) Hi, sorry I took so long, but I got everything you asked for
CHESTER: Not a problem, my friend Mr. His name's Theodore.
ANGELA: ( closing the door ) His name's Theodore.
TED: Actually, it's not Theodore, It's Ted.
CHESTER: So, Ted the Bellboy, as I was saying would you care for some champagne? That's not what I was saying, but would you care for some champagne?
TED: No, thank you.
CHESTER: Ya sure? Cristal. It's the best. I never liked champagne before I had Cristal, now I love it.
TED: Okay, yeah, sure.
CHESTER: As I was saying, Ted, don't worry about being late. For our purposes, promptness is far behind thoroughness.
CHESTER: They clink glasses and drink.
CHESTER: Whadya say, Ted?
TED: Thank you?
CHESTER: No, not thank you. Whadya say about the tasty beverage?
TED: It's good.
CHESTER: Fuckin' good, Ted. It's fuckin' good. Let's try it again, shall we? So, Ted, whadya think about the beverage.
TED: It's fuckin' good.
CHESTER: You bet your sweet bippy, Ted. It's fuckin' Cristal, everything else is
NORMAN: Bellboy! Bellboy! Bellboy!
CHESTER: ( to Norman ) Knock it off, you're making my friend Ted here uneasy. ( to Ted ) Pay no attention to Norman here, Ted, he's just fuckin' wit' ya, that's all. That's from Quadrophenia. Now me, myself, when I think of bellboys I think of "bellboy" isn't an insult, is it? Is there another name for what you do that I'm ignorant of? Bellman, bellperson
TED: Bellboy's fine.
CHESTER: Good. I'm glad they haven't changed that. There's a friendliness to "bellboy." As I was saying, Ted, when Norman thinks of bellboys, he thinks of Quadrophenia.
TED: You should, it's one of Jerry's better movies. He never says a word through the entire film. A completely silent performance. How many actors can pull that off? And he has to go to France to get respect. That says it all about America right there. The minute Jerry Lewis dies, every paper in this fuckin' country gonna write articles calling the man a genius. It's not right. It's not right and it's not fair. But why should that surprise anybody? When has America ever been fair? We might be right every once in a while, but we're very rarely fair.
CHESTER: You should, it's one of Jerry's better movies. He never says a word through the entire film. A completely silent performance. How many actors can pull that off? And he has to go to France to get respect. That says it all about America right there. The minute Jerry Lewis dies, every paper in this fuckin' country gonna write articles calling the man a genius. It's not right. It's not right and it's not fair. But why should that surprise anybody? When has America ever been fair? We might be right every once in a while, but we're very rarely fair.
TED: Where do you want this?
CHESTER: You in a hurry, Ted?
TED: ( he is, but doesn't want to rush the movie star ) No, not particularly.
CHESTER: Good, then stop playing "Beat the Clock." Now let me introduce you to
CHESTER: Our friend from downstairs you already seem to be acquainted with.
ANGELA: Oh, me and Theodore go way back. Don't we, Theodore?
TED: The name's Ted, Angela. I only let people with loaded guns at my head call me Theodore.
CHESTER: Angela's like you, Ted, a newfound We met at the pool.
ANGELA: We met at the pool.
CHESTER: ( to Ted ) Have you ever seen Angela in a one- Well, it's somethin' to see. ( arm around Ted ) The Man sitting in the chair, with the bottle of Jim Bean in his hand and the sense of humor, is Norman. Norman, say hello to Ted.
TED: Well, it's somethin' to see. The Man sitting in the chair, with the bottle of Jim Bean in his hand and the sense of humor, is Norman. Norman, say hello to Ted.
CHESTER: Well, it's somethin' to see. The Man sitting in the chair, with the bottle of Jim Bean in his hand and the sense of humor, is Norman. Norman, say hello to Ted.
NORMAN: What's up?
CHESTER: The sociable son of a bitch on the telephone is Leo. And the person on the other end of the phone is his lovely wife Ellen. Leo, say hello to Ted.
LEO: Hi, Ted, glad you could make it. What does punctuality have to do with love?
CHESTER: Which brings me to me, Chester Rush, Ted. Pleased to meetcha.
TED: I know. I'm sorry I haven't seen your movie.
CHESTER: It's quite all right, Ted, nothing to feel sorry about. That's why God invented video. But you know, Ted, a lot of people did see it.
CHESTER: Who drank out of this bottle last?
CHESTER: Who drank out of this bottle not the other bottles this bottle What's wrong, Chester?
NORMAN: What's wrong, Chester?
CHESTER: It's fuckin' flat, Norman, that's what's wrong. The champagne the fuckin' Cristal's fuckin' flat.
CHESTER: I was saying, Ted, a lot of people did see it. And not just on video, either. Leo, what was the final take on domestic?
LEO: 72.1 million. You okay, champ?
CHESTER: ( struggling with bottle ) I'm cool, so talk to your wife.
CHESTER: ( to Ted ) 72.1 million dollars. That's before video and before foreign, and before pay-TV and before free TV. We're talking fuckin' asses in fuckin' ( he pops the cork ) Before all that other shit, The Wacky Detective made 72.1 million dollars.
CHESTER: And my new one, The Dog Catcher, it's projected to break a hundred. The Dog Catcher.
TED: The Dog Catcher.
CHESTER: Now let's stroll over here and see what goodies you brought us.
TED: Do you mind me asking what's all this stuff for?
CHESTER: One thing at a time, Ted. I'm not a frog and you're not a bunny, so let's not jump ahead. C'mon, Norman, you should be interested in this.
NORMAN: Damn Skippy! Tell it.
TED: A block of wood.
CHESTER: Three nails.
TED: Three nails.
NORMAN: Why three nails?
CHESTER: That's how many Peter Lorre asked for. Continue, Ted.
TED: A roll of twine.
CHESTER: That's definitely a roll of twine. A bucket of ice.
TED: A bucket of ice.
CHESTER: ( to Norman ) You into it?
NORMAN: ( to Chester ) I'm into it.
CHESTER: ( to Ted ) Go on.
TED: A donut.
CHESTER: That's for me. Continue.
TED: And a hatchet.
CHESTER: A hatchet as sharp as the devil himself is what I asked for.
TED: Well, you be the judge.
NORMAN: I'll be the judge.
CHESTER: Whadya think?
NORMAN: That's a sharp motherfucker. Bring all this bullshit over to the bar.
CHESTER: You heard him, Ted.
LEO: You still married?
NORMAN: You still married?
LEO: Maybe, maybe not, but I don't give a flyin' fuck either way. I've had it with that Machiavellian bitch! I'm too drunk to drive home. I'm sorry about that, I'm real sorry about that. I got drunk on New Year's Eve, cut my fuckin' head off. What's going on here?
CHESTER: We now return you to The Man from Rio, already in progress.
LEO: ( surprised ) Noooo, you're gonna do it?
NORMAN: Looks like.
LEO: You guys ain't bullshittin', you're gonna really go for it?
ANGELA: After talkin' about it all night, they better. I wanna see a show.
CHESTER: When we do it, you'll have something to see.
LEO: You are one radical dude.
TED: Well, that's everything, so if you don't need me for anything else, I'll go back downstairs.
CHESTER: Not so fast, Ted. We ain't quite done yet. Why don't you take a seat at the bar, get comfortable, and have an open mind when we explain the festivities of the evening to Look, guys, you paid for the room. As long as you don't break up the furniture, you can do whatever the fuck you want. And me personally, I don't care if you break up the furniture. You don't have to explain anything to me. Whatever constitutes a good time as far as you guys are concerned is your business.
TED: Look, guys, you paid for the room. As long as you don't break up the furniture, you can do whatever the fuck you want. And me personally, I don't care if you break up the furniture. You don't have to explain anything to me. Whatever constitutes a good time as far as you guys are concerned is your business.
CHESTER: Well, it's your business, Ted. 'Cause we want you to take part.
TED: Take part in what?
LEO: Chester, your way of breaking the news to him gently is scarin' the shit outta him.
ANGELA: Look at the poor guy. Just spit it
CHESTER: First off, let me say that there's nothing homosexual about what we're going to ask you to do. There's nothing sexual at all about what we want. But I was thinkin' you might be thinkin' we want you to do some sex thing. Pee on us, suck us off, shit like that. Let me assure you nothing could be farther from what we want
ANGELA: Can I jump in here?
CHESTER: No, you can't jump in here, this is my story.
ANGELA: Theodore's been here fifteen minutes and you've talked about everything Hey, if you don't like it, you can get the fuck out.
CHESTER: Hey, if you don't like it, you can get the fuck out.
LEO: If it'll please the court, let me explain to Ted our intentions.
NORMAN: ( yelling ) I second the nomination!
CHESTER: ( yelling ) Move the nomination be closed!
CHESTER: ( calmly ) Leo, the floor is yours.
LEO: Thank you. Ted, did you ever watch the old "Alfred Hitchcock Show"?
TED: ( totally bewildered at this point ) Did you ever see the episode The Man from Rio, with Peter Lorre and Steve I don't think so.
LEO: Did you ever see the episode The Man from Rio, with Peter Lorre and Steve I don't think so.
TED: I don't think so.
LEO: Oh, you'd remember it all right. In the show, Peter Lorre makes a bet that Steve McQueen can't light his cigarette lighter ten times in a row. Now if Steve McQueen can light his cigarette lighter ten times in a row, he wins Peter Lorre's new car. If he can't he loses his little Norman and Chester just made the same bet. Norman's putting up his pinky against Chester's mint convertible, 1964 red convertible Chevy Corvelle that he can light his Zippo ten times in a You guys are drunk.
TED: You guys are drunk.
CHESTER: Well, that goes without saying, but that doesn't mean we don't know what we're doing.
NORMAN: I'll tell ya what I'm doin'.
NORMAN: I drive a motherfuckin' Honda my sister sold me. You hear what I'm sayin'? A little white motherfuckin' Honda Civic. You see this shit?! "Hollywood's hottest new star, next to America's hottest old car." Now you take a good look at that machine that this motherfucker over here is standing next to. That's a 1964 nigger-red, rag-top Chevy Corvelle. And I love that car more'n I love hips, lips, and fingertips. Cut to we sittin' here celebrating, gettin' high, drinkin' champagne
CHESTER: Cristal. When you're drinkin' anything else, you're drinking champagne. When you're drinkin' Cristal, you say you're drinkin' drinkin' Cristal. Watchin' TV. "Rockin' New Year's Eve." When all of a sudden we flip on Steve McQueen and Peter Lorre bein' fuckin' badass. And I look at this funny motherfucker over here, and I say, "I'd do that for the Chevelle."
NORMAN: drinkin' Cristal. Watchin' TV. "Rockin' New Year's Eve." When all of a sudden we flip on Steve McQueen and Peter Lorre bein' fuckin' badass. And I look at this funny motherfucker over here, and I say, "I'd do that for the Chevelle."
LEO: And Chester replies.
CHESTER: ".Oh, really?"
TED: You guys wouldn't be doin' something this stupid unless you were drunk.
NORMAN: I think that pretty much goes without sayin'. We'd probably chicken out. But when you're fucked-up, you don't lie. You tell the fuckin' truth. And the fuckin' truth is, my lucky Zippo's gonna win me Chester's car.
TED: ( to Chester ) Why are you doing this?
CHESTER: Thrill of the bet. I'm the one with something to lose here. 'Cause I can pretty near guarantee that I love my car more'n Norman loves his pinky.
TED: ( to Leo ) How 'bout you guys, you're just gonna sit back and let your friends mutilate each other?
LEO: Why not? Life don't get much more exciting than this. I mean if Norman was puttin' his dick on the choppin' block, I'd step in, 'cause, ya know in the morning, we'd really regret that. But his pinky? Who gives a fuck? I mean theoretically, he could lose that choppin' onions tomorrow. Life still goes on.
TED: ( to Angela ) How 'bout you?
ANGELA: ( to Ted ) I don't care.
CHESTER: Which brings us to your part in this little wager.
TED: I don't have a part.
CHESTER: Now, Ted, my old granddaddy used ta say: "The less a man makes declarative statements, the less he's apt to look foolish in retrospect." Now there're some inherent obstacles in this undertaking. First of all, I'm not some sick fuck like Peter Lorre on that show, travelin' the countryside collecting fingers. We're all buddies, here. Nobody wants Norman to lose his finger. We just wanna chop it off. So if fate doesn't smile on ol' Norman, we'll put his finger on ice and rush 'im to a hospital, where in all likelihood be able to sew it back on.
TED: Eighty percent.
LEO: Eighty percent.
NORMAN: Our side.
CHESTER: So Norman's protected. His interests have been looked after. My interests, on the other hand, have not. I am as emotionally attached to my car as Norman is physically to his finger. I'm putting up a very expensive piece of machinery on this wager. Now, if I lose, I lose, I have no problem with that. I'm a big boy, I knew what I was doing. However, if I win, I wanna win. If Norman lights his lighter ten times in a row, he's gonna have no emotional problems about taking my car keys whatsoever. But if I win, it's not inconceivable that Leo or myself, at the last minute, might not be able to wield the ax. Which brings us full circle to you, Ted. Sober Ted. Clear-eyed Ted. We want you to be the diceman.
ANGELA: Helluva night, huh, Ted?
TED: I gotta get out of here.
CHESTER: Ted, I got a hundred-dollar bill here with your name on it, whether you do what we ask or not, just to sit back down in the chair for one minute more.
TED: I'm not gonna cut off his finger!
CHESTER: Maybe you will and maybe you won't, but that has nothing to do with this hundred-dollar bill in my hand. You can tell us all to go fuck off and walk right out that door. But if you sit back down and wait sixty seconds before you do it, you'll be a hundred dollars richer.
ANGELA: Ted. Take the money.
LEO: Ted, you're gonna do whatever you want to do. We're just askin' you to indulge us for another minute more. And Chester's willin' to pay for it.
TED: I'll take your money, and I'll sit back down. But a minute from now, I'm gonna walk out the door, and when I do, there'll be no hard Well, I want you to have a bit more of an open mind than that, but, yeah, we'll either convince you or we won't. No hard feelings. Right, guys?
CHESTER: Well, I want you to have a bit more of an open mind than that, but, yeah, we'll either convince you or we won't. No hard feelings. Right, guys?
CHESTER: Okay, Leo, you be the timekeeper. Let us know when one minute begins and when it ends.
LEO: You got it. Gentlemen, start your engines.
LEO: Chester, who talks fast anyway, starts his pitch. It's Chester who now plays "Beat the Clock."
CHESTER: Okay, pay attention here, Ted, I ain't got much time. Now I'm gonna make two piles here on the bar. One pile, which is yours. And another pile, which could be yours. Now, what you have to be aware of is we're gonna do this bet, one way, or the other. Whether it's you who holds the ax, or the desk clerk downstairs, or some bum we yank off the street.
NORMAN: You can buy a lot of soup with that Shhhh, I'm the closer. How much is on the bar already? I lost count.
CHESTER: ( to Norman ) Shhhh, I'm the closer. ( to the group ) How much is on the bar already? I lost count.
ANGELA: Six hundred.
CHESTER: Six hundred. Ted, do you know how long it takes the average American to count to six hundred?
TED: ( laying another bill on the pile ) One minute less than it takes to count to seven hundred. You know, Ted, a person's life is made up of a zillion little experiences. ( he lays another bill on the pile ) Some, which have no meaning, are insignificant and you forget them. And some that stick with you for the rest of your natural life ( he lays another bill on the pile ) barring Alzheimer's of course. Now, what we're proposing is so unusual, so outside the norm, that I think it would be a pretty good guess that this will be one of those experiences that sticks. So, since you're gonna be stuck remembering this moment for the rest of your life, you gotta decide what that memory will be. ( He lays down the last bill on the pile ) So, are you gonna remember for the next forty years, give or take a decade, how you refused a thousand dollars for one second's worth of work, or how you made a thousand dollars for one second's worth of Well, Ted, what's it gonna be?
CHESTER: ( laying another bill on the pile ) One minute less than it takes to count to seven hundred. You know, Ted, a person's life is made up of a zillion little experiences. ( he lays another bill on the pile ) Some, which have no meaning, are insignificant and you forget them. And some that stick with you for the rest of your natural life ( he lays another bill on the pile ) barring Alzheimer's of course. Now, what we're proposing is so unusual, so outside the norm, that I think it would be a pretty good guess that this will be one of those experiences that sticks. So, since you're gonna be stuck remembering this moment for the rest of your life, you gotta decide what that memory will be. ( He lays down the last bill on the pile ) So, are you gonna remember for the next forty years, give or take a decade, how you refused a thousand dollars for one second's worth of work, or how you made a thousand dollars for one second's worth of Well, Ted, what's it gonna be?
LEO: Well, Ted, what's it gonna be?
CHESTER: Well, Ted, what's it gonna be?
FLASHBACK: We see a quick MONTAGE of horrendous moments from all the other stories.
TED: The group cheers.
TED: But when it's over, no matter what happens, I get the money?
CHESTER: As long as you do your part, you can take the pile, walk out the door, and not say another word.
TED: Let's do it right now, before I change my mind.
NORMAN: Here, here.
CHESTER: Perfect, perfect, perfect, perfect! This is great! This is a moment in time none of us will ever forget.
CHESTER: Norman, you ready?
NORMAN: Ted, you ready?
CHESTER: Ted, you ready?
TED: Okeydoke. Norman, begin.
CHESTER: Okeydoke. Norman, begin.
NORMAN: My finger, my fucking finger!!
ANGELA: You know, I'm gonna call it a night and go back to my room. It's been
FOUR ROOMS: Angela sticks her key in the door, then stops when she sees something approaching. The look on her face combines strange awe and mild shock. Almost floating ethereally, a mysterious Blond Bombshell, wearing Diana's see-through negligee and slippers, armed with Elspeth's sword slung over her shoulder, wanders toward her. She is in a daze, perhaps lost or drunk.
ANGELA: You okay, lady?
ANGELA: I said you looking for someone?
DIANA: ( disoriented ) Uhhh. yes. my husband. I think. Have you seen him?
ANGELA: Lady, I haven't seen anybody.
SIGFRIED: Where the hell have you been?
THE END: Writers : Allison Anders Quentin Tarantino Robert Rodriguez Alexandre Rockwell
