FREAKED: Written by
SEVENTH DRAFT: January 12, 1992
RICK: Can you imagine it, Regis, Kathie Lee? One day I'm a hot young movie star, and the next day I'm a hideous mutant freak, covered with festering lesions. Oddly, REGIS and KATHIE LEE are also in complete silhouette.
REGIS: Sounds like my wife when she misses a mudpack! The audience CRACKS UP. Kathie Lee pooh-poohs Regis.
KATHIE LEE: Oh Regis! You're incorrigible! Ha- ( to Rick, she turns
EARNEST ): Ricky, once you were the all- American boy next door, star of the beloved Hey Dude films. Now the very mention of your name makes children scream in terror. We've all read about your disturbing story. But the people want to hear it from you, Ricky Coogan. ( SFX: children scream ) Won't you tell us your story?
RICK: Well, it's kinda long, but okay. It all started when I signed a deal to be spokesman for the E.E.S. INT. E.E.S. CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY The E.E.S. logoa large metal shoe with a bar across it, with the words "Everything Except Shoes" beneath. Widen to reveal RICHARD HERTZ, president of E.E.S., smiling rigidly to camera. RICK COOGAN is next to him, also holding a stiff movie-star smile. FLASH! They shake hands as the EES photographer takes publicity shots. Off to one side, behind Hertz, are several EES EXECUTIVES. Behind Rick is his entourage: LAWYER, BODYGUARD, TRAINER, STYLIST, and SPIRIT
RICK: ( through a clenched smile ) So, what kind of crap do you scumbags want me to peddle?
HERTZ: Everything. Everything except shoes, of course. Hah hah. He laughs pathetically. Rick doesn't respond. Hertz nods to a nearby EXECUTIVE who hands him some BEEF STICKS.
HERTZ: Meaty Twig Beef Sticks. Rick takes them and holds them up to the camera. Smiles. Helmet Head hair spray. He takes the hair spray and holds it up. Smile. Flash. The assistant carefully hands Hertz a pulsating metal container with lots of warnings and danger symbols on it. Hertz gives it to Rick.
HERTZ: Helmet Head hair spray. He takes the hair spray and holds it up. Smile. Flash. The assistant carefully hands Hertz a pulsating metal container with lots of warnings and danger symbols on it. Hertz gives it to Rick.
HERTZ: Noxon 24 biogenetic neuro- Rick holds it up, then pushes it away in disgust.
RICK: Fertilizer? Ricky Coogan does not do ads for hi-tech cow shit. I'm a star, got it, Hertz? ( to his aide ) Rico, give these misguided clowns Tony Danza's phone number, and let's get the hell out of here. He gives the finger to the EES photographer, who obligingly takes a picture. Hertz waves at him to get lost, and calls after Rick who's headed to the door with his entourage.
HERTZ: Rick. Wait! Only you can stand up to the radicals trying to keep Noxon from the struggling farmers whose very future depends on it.
RICK: ( HESITATES )
HERTZ: Only in the U.S..and Europe.
RICK: But I heard that shit's lethal. Hertz lets out a big laugh. He shakes his head at Rick.
HERTZ: Rick, Rick, Rick. You want proof? Fine. Just take a seat. Rick nods to his entourage. They sit at the boardroom table, across from the EES execs. An easel behind Hertz shows a placard with a bar graph. Hertz whispers something to an aide, who scurries off.
HERTZ: ( TO RICK )
GEORGE: My name is George Ramirez.
HERTZ: Whatever. He's worked with Noxon 24 every day for five years, and he's in fine shape. Aren't you, George glares at Hertz bitterly. Hertz stares him down.
GEORGE: Yes. I am fine. Me and my team in Santa Flan have
RICK: Santa "Flan?" What kind of shitty name for a country is that?
GEORGE: It is named for the patron saint of creamy desserts. As I was saying, we've worked very closely with Noxon.
GEORGE: It's ridiculous, I tell you. Totally ridiculous! Rick is ready to ask questions, but Hertz cuts him off.
HERTZ: Thank you, Valdez. That will be George nods and heads back to his seat. As he passes behind Hertz, he can't resist sticking his thumbs in his ears and making a face.
RICK: Wait a second
HERTZ: Ricky, this is important. We're talking about a major threat to the EES image. How does 2 million dollars plus expenses sound? The aide reveals a new placard on the easel. It reads "$2
MILLION.": Look, it sounds great, but
RICK: Look, it sounds great, but
HERTZ: I hear you. Make it five million ( a new placard: 5 MILLION ) that is, if the board agrees . Hertz reaches beside his chair and pulls a lever. The old geezers beside him raise their arms stiffly, as if they were being pulled by strands of fishing line, which they are.
HERTZ: Good, it's unanimous. Well, what do you say, Ricky? Are you EES's "Man in Santa Flan?" Rick looks at his advisorsthey look over at Linda Hunt, then emphatically shake their heads "NO." Rick looks at Hertz, who shows him five big fingers and grins. Rick breaks into a big smile and gives Hertz his trademark thumbs up INT. L.A. AIRPORT SECURITY CHECK Rick stands in line at the luggage X-ray machine. He impatiently checks his watch as the X-RAY CHECKER chats him up. A CRAZED ANARCHIST holding a large bomb passes through the security check unquestioned.
RICK: ( TO HIMSELF )
ERNIE: Ladies! All I wanted was a manicure! Yah-ha-ha! ( he sees Rick )
RICK: IT'S THE ERNIE! WOOF! WOOF! Rick pumps Ernie's third "hand." The miffed X-ray checker points to Rick's large carry-on bag as it emerges from the X- ray machine.
WOOF!: Rick pumps Ernie's third "hand." The miffed X-ray checker points to Rick's large carry-on bag as it emerges from the X- ray machine.
RICK: Yeah, why?
STUEY: Rick! Rick! Look! I got a rare still from your high school production of The Glass Menagerie! Could you sign it for me? Let's get the hell out of here!
RICK: ( TO ERNIE )
NO!: ( TO ERNIE )
STUEY: Rick! Wait up!
STUEY: Rick! Remember the speech you gave at the Actors Forum for Social He holds up a cassette player and hits play. It's Rick's old RICK'S VOICE ( FROM TAPE ) If all the world is a stage, then let us shine the spotlight on truth, integrity, and a deep compassion for all life.
RICK: Leave me alone, troll!
ERNIE: Quick, down here. Ernie leads Rick down an adjacent hallway.
STUEY: Rick! Rick! It says here Noxon's dangerous. Why are you lending your name to it? What's happened to you, Rick? You used to be good! And now. I just don't Stuey starts to cry. Rick looks guilty.
RICK: Don't cry, Stuey, I'm still good.
RICK: Rick and Ernie high five.
ALRIGHT!: Rick and Ernie high five.
RICK: In the bag. The plane hits turbulence, and Rick's drink flies up out of his glasshe catches it as it comes down. Another STEWARDESS helps the Anarchist put his bomb in the overhead compartment. Ernie ogles her. She sneers at him. We hear the CAPTAIN'S voice on the loudspeaker.
STUEY: on the wing, pressing his face up against the glass. He's holding up a publicity shot of Rick and screaming something we can't hear.
RICK: Stuey loses his grip and is whisked off the wing. Rick watches him fall into oblivion.
AHHHHHHH!: Stuey loses his grip and is whisked off the wing. Rick watches him fall into oblivion.
RICK: You gonna eat your peanuts, Ernie?
ERNIE: Nah, you can have 'em.
STUEY: Hey, I'm okay! BONK! His scrapbook falls into frame and beans him.
STUEY: CUT TO:
OW!: CUT TO:
RICK: Sure glad that wasn't our plane. Ernie nods. They're distracted by the sound of chanting. They squint into the distance, where they see a group of chanting PROTESTERSyoung "Save the Earth" types, latter-day hippies, kids, seniors, etc.
PROTESTERS: EES mustn't stay! Take your toxic crap away! EES mustn't stay! ( etc. ) Some of their signs read"Say No to Noxon!", "Coogan Go Home", "EES is killing our Earth!", "Ricky Coogan Sucks Shit" ( this one held by a nice LITTLE GIRL ), "I Like Ike" ( held by a confused OLD MAN, shuffling around aimlessly ), "Drink Pepsi" and finally. "Free Nelson Mandela"we WIDEN to reveal the subheading: "Inside specially marked boxes." We keep WIDENING to reveal that this is not on a protest placard, but a box of cereal some GUY is eating as he watches the protest.
ERNIE: Jesus! We better find the limo before these whale kissers chop us up and sell us for parts. ( he spots the limo ) There it is. Off to the side, away from the protesters, an unmarked limo with tinted windows ( and plates that say NOT EES ) awaits. KEVIN, an EES exec, leans out the window and waves discreetly at Ricky. The stewardesses, looking tipsy, wave their bras out the back window invitingly. Ernie tries to grab Ricky by the arm, but he resists. He's looking at the protesters.
RICK: Wait a second. His POV.
ERNIE: Let's go, Rick. They're waitin'.
RICK: Forget them. I got a better idea. If I can just find the right Coog, those hippies'll tear us Rick spots a HEAVILY BANDAGED MAN limping out of the airport on crutches. Rick approaches him, waving a roll of bills.
ERNIE: Coog, those hippies'll tear us Rick spots a HEAVILY BANDAGED MAN limping out of the airport on crutches. Rick approaches him, waving a roll of bills.
RICK: Hey, how'd you like to make a quick hundred bucks? The man mutters something weakly. Ernie puts his ear up close to hear him better.
ERNIE: He says the pants don't usually come off for less than two-fifty, but since you're so cute, he'll make an exception.
RICK: buried beneath rolls and rolls of bandages, making his way through the protesters on crutches. Ernie helps him along, nervously. As Rick spots Julie from behind, he hands the crutches over to Ernie.
RICK: Ernie takes the crutches. Rick waves his arms dramatically, clutches his bandaged legs, and winces in pain.
RICK: Help! Ow! Give me back my crutches! You monster! Oh, the pain! The agony! He falls theatrically at Julie's feet.
JULIE: Are you okay? Let me help you!
RICK: Thanks. Don't worry about me. What's one man's pain weighed against the global injustice of corporate tyrants like EES? Go. The fight must continue. Julie's buying it big time. She gazes deep into Rick's eyes.
JULIE: Wow. My name's Julie.
RICK: Josh. Josh Tavner. Ernie sticks a hand out, grinning sarcastically.
ERNIE: Mother Theresa. Glad to meet you. Julie turns on Ernie viciously. She slaps him hard, and grabs the crutches from him.
ERNIE: Ow! Hey!
JULIE: Give me those, ape. Help him up. Rick rises to his feet "painfully."
JULIE: Hey Josh, a busload of us are headed over to Maracas to protest Noxon 24 and pelt Ricky Coogan with cow shit.
RICK: Same here! You could ride with us.
JULIE: Us? You're with him? She looks at Ernie, who grins stupidly.
RICK: Oh, he's okay. Have you ever heard of an idiot savant?
JULIE: That's Ernie. Except for the savant part.
RICK: That's Ernie. Except for the savant part.
RICK: ( faking terrible pain ) Ooooh, my pelvis.
JULIE: ( SYMPATHETIC )
ERNIE: Hey Julie. You know I'm kind of an idea man myself. Like, let's say there's a nuclear war, and the only two people left are you and the Pope. Would you pork him? Disgusted, Julie smacks Ernie sharply and continues massaging Rick. Scowling with jealousy, Ernie tries a new approach.
ERNIE: But one thing's for sure. That Coogan guy sure is an asshole, huh?
JULIE: I'll say! What a total piece of shit. Don't you think so, Josh? Rick grits his teeth.
RICK: ( MUMBLES NONCOMMITTALLY )
JULIE: And what a lousy actor! I mean can you believe that "Hey Dude" crap?
RICK: Well, with a script that bad, Coogan deserves an Oscar for coming off as good as he did!
JULIE: Well, he's no Christian Slater.
RICK: ( EXPLODES )
ME?: Enraged, Rick rips the bandages off his face.
RICK: You think Slater could improv like this? Make you believe he was an invalid!? Huh!? Julie stares at him in shock. Rick catches his breath, realizes what he's just done, and smiles weakly. Ernie tries to break the awkward silence.
ERNIE: ( TO JULIE )
JULIE: You don't even want to hear the truth about Noxon, do you, Coogan?
RICK'S POV: on the road behind Julie he sees a crude carnival billboard featuring a painting of a huge worm with a man's head. It reads "See the Incredabel Humin Werm! Only at Elijah C. Skuggs Famus Freek Land." Julie can't see it.
RICK: ( DISTRACTED )
JULIE: Right. A human worm. I mean, that's just stupid. The point is Rick sees another billboard for the freak show. This one features a half-man/half-dog creature and says "See the Aztownding Dawg Boy!"
RICK: Dog boy.
JULIE: Yeah, or a dog boy. That's absurd.
BUT: Another billboard. This one features the "Hidyous Frawg
RICK: Hideous frog man.
JULIE: Okay, okay. Now you're just being silly. Human suffering's just a big joke to you, huh? You are sick, Coogan! She turns away from him in a huff and looks out her window. She sees a billboard that reads "See The Hole Amazing Famly of Freekz at Elijah C. Skuggs Famus Freek Land and Mutent Cool! A freak show! Let's check it out!
JULIE: Cool! A freak show! Let's check it out!
RICK: Kind of like a family reunion for you, huh?
ERNIE: Lighten up, Coog, could be a goof.
JULIE: Isn't it great? It's so "real".
RICK: Real stupid.
ERNIE: Yeah. Where are all the weirdos?
ELIJAH: Mutants, yes. Genetic nightmares, definitely. Children of Hell and twisted masses of living, breathing tormented flesh, certainly. But as for weirdos. not a one. Unless of course you count me! Ha ha ha!
RICK: Nah, you seem like a regular dumbshit old redneck to me. Elijah ignores him. Julie shoots him a look and smiles at I'm Julie. And you are.
JULIE: I'm Julie. And you are.
ELIJAH: Elijah C. Skuggs, proud proprietor of Skugg's Fabulous Freak Land and Mutant Emporium. But you knew that. After all, you've ventured miles away from civilization, hospitals, telephones,
RICK: Drop dead. Elijah smiles, unfazed. Julie glares at Rick. She smiles apologetically at Elijah.
JULIE: We'd like to see your freak show. You see, only by appreciating the variety and innovation of nature can we come to respect the fragile complexity of our global eco- Elijah nudges Ernie.
ELIJAH: And you come to me looking for Ernie shrugs. He goes to take a bite out of his chocolate bar and finds only the empty wrapper left in his hand.
ERNIE: Hey! What the He looks behind him, and thereabout ten feet awayis.
JULIE: ( REPULSED )
WAVES ): Ahem. Hello. Toad doesn't respond to her waves.
ELIJAH: Mr. Toad is my. assistant. As for the show, I'm afraid the next parade of deformity isn't until tomorrow night. Rick and Ernie pretend to be disappointed. They turn to leave. Julie's sincerely upset.
JULIE: Oh, just our luck. Elijah grabs Rick's shoulder and turns him around.
ELIJAH: However! I do have a private exhibit in my shed you might enjoy. I don't usually share it with the general public.
RICK: We're deeply honored. But no Yeah. We really must be He raises his cigarette to his lips, but it's gone! He turns to see Toad, ten feet behind him, puffing away happily. Hmmm. Elijah is already leading Julie towards the shed.
ERNIE: Yeah. We really must be He raises his cigarette to his lips, but it's gone! He turns to see Toad, ten feet behind him, puffing away happily. Hmmm. Elijah is already leading Julie towards the shed.
JULIE: The sideshow tradition has been misrepresented by the media. You don't traffic in human misery. You show society the part of itself it doesn't want to look at.
ELIJAH: Yes. Yesm I see. He looks over to Rick and Ernie with a grin that says "Where'd you find this nutty chick?" Rick shrugs and follows, taking Ernie with him.
ERNIE: What the heck. We'll see some pickled dog brains, maybe some pictures of women with, you know, added equipment.
RICK: And to think we could be in the limo with those stewardesses. Elijah holds the shed door open for them. It's pitch black inside. Julie enters. Rick and Ernie follow.
ERNIE: What the hell, Coog, these people are weird, but they seem nice A CUTE BUNNY sits outside the shed. THWAP! Toad lashes out with his ten foot tongue, and sucks the bunny into his mouth. He shuffles into the shed, crunching contentedly. Elijah closes the shed doors in our face, grinning. we hear a lonq peal of EVIL LAUGHTER from inside.
ELIJAH: AH-HA-HA-HA-HA-HA! HE-HE-HE! HA- HAHA! HE-HO-HE-HE-HA-HA! AH-HA-HA- HEHA! YAH-HA-HA-HA-HEE-HEE-HO-HA- INT. SHED It's dark and spooky. Elijah stands in a pool of light, reading a Family Circus cartoon in the funny pages.
ELIJAH: HA-HE-HE-HE! God I love the Family Circus! How do they do it day after day? It's amazing. He turns to.
THE STRAPS: ( TO ELIJAH )
RICK: ( TO ELIJAH )
ELIJAH: Well, I guess they do use the same joke over and over. I'm just a sucker for that little moffet's shenanigans, that's all. ( he tosses the funnies
ASIDE ): But perhaps I should tell you a little more about what I do. You see, I not only exhibit freaks, I make them. Just like Michelangelo saw the angel in the stone, I look at a guy like Kevin Costner and see a giant peach grub who can fart the Blue Danube! ( mops brow, asks
OFFHANDEDLY ): Am I crazy or is it hot in here? Rick, Julie, and Ernie shoot him a look that pretty well answers his question. Elijah shrugs and goes back to his Behold! The Tasty Freekz machine! He pulls a tarp off a huge complicated machine. Several drums and vats of various chemicals feed through a crude network of pipes, gadgets and computers into an old Tasty Freeze soft serve ice cream machine ( The logo has been changed to "Tasty Freekz" ). The biggest vat reads "NOXON
ELIJAH: Behold! The Tasty Freekz machine! He pulls a tarp off a huge complicated machine. Several drums and vats of various chemicals feed through a crude network of pipes, gadgets and computers into an old Tasty Freeze soft serve ice cream machine ( The logo has been changed to "Tasty Freekz" ). The biggest vat reads "NOXON
JULIE: My God! He's using Noxon Twenty- Hey! You're not supposed to have that stuff!
RICK: Hey! You're not supposed to have that stuff!
ELIJAH: Oh? Well, I guess I'm not supposed to have these either!
ELIJAH: I need only punch a few buttons on this magnificent device, and it gives me an easy-to-apply ointment that will mutate a perfect young body, bubble its skin, warp its bones and twist its guts into AN
JULIE: Wait a minute. Does this mean we're not going to see a show?
ELIJAH: ( IGNORES HER )
AAAAHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!: Now let's see. Who wants to get freaked first?
ELIJAH: Now let's see. Who wants to get freaked first?
ERNIE: ( points at Julie ) Ladies first!
JULIE: Go screw yourself!
ERNIE: If I were you, I would!
ELIJAH: Toad is adjusting some knobs on the machine. Elijah steps past him to a jerry-rigged computer console. He punches some keys and some rotating DNA models appear on the monitor.
ELIJAH: ( mumbling to himself ) It's like Yin and Yang. AC/DC. two birds with one stone. Yeah, it's pretty darn good, really. He presses "enter" and the computer beeps. He smiles.
ELIJAH: Let 'er rip, Toad! Toad yanks a pull-start cord and the machine rumbles to life. Elijah pulls the Tasty Freekz lever and fills a small dish with phosphorescent ointment. Toad cuts open their clothes, exposing their sides, and pushes them close together.
ERNIE: Wait a second. You're really gonna smear that stuff on us and mutate our body parts!?
ELIJAH: Well. then could you give me a really big rodney?
ERNIE: Well. then could you give me a really big rodney?
ELIJAH: I'm a mad scientist pal, not a miracle worker. Elijah smears the ointment on their exposed sides. Their skin begins to bubble and undulate.
ELIJAH: Gumby! Put that thing away! Gumby and Pokey mutate back into a blob and then into.
ELIJAH: Feast your eyes!
JULIE: Well, at least I'll never have to go far for a piece of tail.
NOOOOO!: Well, at least I'll never have to go far for a piece of tail.
ERNIE: Well, at least I'll never have to go far for a piece of tail.
JULIE: She SMACKS him.
ERNIE: Ouch! I was just trying to keep things light. Oh God! Why me!? He starts blubbering uncontrollably. Toad drags them towards the door.
JULIE: Mother always said there'd be days like this. And I thought she was They exit. Elijah turns to Rick.
ELIJAH: ( gestures to Julie/Ernie ) A mere party trick. But you, you're gonna be special. Elijah steps over to the computer console and starts punching Let me go, Skuggs, or else!
RICK: ( GETS TOUGH )
APPROACH ): I got some other friends who can score you box seats at the Superbowl, no problem.
ELIJAH: ( LOOKS UPINTERESTED )
ELIJAH: Ah, screw it. I'd never get anywhere with her. TOAD! FIRE UP
ELIJAH: For years I've strived to create the ultimate monster. The first of a whole new generation of superfreaks! Now I've finally got you, the perfect subjecta real asshole! HA-HA- ( he pauses and looks closer at Rick ) Wait a minute. Aren't you the guy from "Hey Dude Three-The Yeah, that's me!
RICK: Yeah, that's me!
ELIJAH: You were great in that picture! Oh well, I guess for the next one they'll have to get Christian Slater! HA-HA-HA!
AAAAAAAHHHHHHHHHHHHRRRRGGGGGGG!: DISSOLVE TO:
ELIJAH: This is Red Swan. May I speak to the Laughing Man?. Yes, I'll For a moment, Elijah is entertained by hold music to the tune of "Freak Out," by Chic. A man's laughing voice comes on the other end of the line. It laughs throughout the Laughing Man? Red Swan. I've done it! I found the perfect subject huge ego, shallow personality, almost no moral values. A lawyer? No, better. An actor. Yeah, the guy from those hilarious "Hey Dude" movies! Hahahaha Laughing man has stopped laughing. Elijah dummies up.
ELIJAH: Laughing Man? Red Swan. I've done it! I found the perfect subject huge ego, shallow personality, almost no moral values. A lawyer? No, better. An actor. Yeah, the guy from those hilarious "Hey Dude" movies! Hahahaha Laughing man has stopped laughing. Elijah dummies up.
ELIJAH: ( SHEEPISHLY )
ELIJAH: ( ASIDE )
ELIJAH: ( to Laughing man ) Laughing Man? I have to go. What about the Noxon? Two days? Great, you can see everything then. Yeah, you take it easy too. Elijah hangs up the phone, and strides over towards Rick.
ELIJAH: Wakey, wakey. Time to meet and greet the new you.
RICK: He flips the slab right-side up, and holds up a mirror. Rick's eyes widen in terror as he beholds his hideous new form. Rick's left half has been transformed into a hideous, bug-eyed monster!
RICK: CUT TO:
RICK: Oh God! This was my good side!
ELIJAH: Still is if you ask me! Hell, even half-done, you'll be the star of the show tonight. Elijah stops in front of the tiny outhouse.
RICK: ( IMPRESSED )
ELIJAH: I learned it all from Bob Vila. BOB VILA walks up next to Elijah.
BOB: You know you could expose those rustic beams and put in a skylight over one weekend, Elijah.
ELIJAH: Give it a rest, Bob! He pushes Bob away into the freak house, gives Rick a goodbye wink and walks out the door.
ELIJAH: One of these days I gotta put a shitter in there. Bob Vila steps out of nowhere again, holding a Time-Life No problem. It's all here in my Beds and Bathrooms book, Elijah. And you pay nothing for thirt BONK! Elijah knocks him out cold with a ball-peen hammer from his tool belt.
BOB: No problem. It's all here in my Beds and Bathrooms book, Elijah. And you pay nothing for thirt BONK! Elijah knocks him out cold with a ball-peen hammer from his tool belt.
RICK: Ernie? Julie?
ERNIE: Over here, Coog.
JULIE: Are you alright? Rick sees the vague outline of JulieErnie a few yards away.
RICK: I know that voice. That's the voice that said,
JULIE: What!? Oh sure, blame the woman. "It's so real." Is this real enough for you? I'm friggin' Chill out, Coog. You're talking to the original tag team of ugly pukes. Step into the light.
RICK: ( MIMICS )
ERNIE: Chill out, Coog. You're talking to the original tag team of ugly pukes. Step into the light.
RICK: Okay, here I come.
ERNIE: Ernie turns away and pukes on the floor. Julie soldiers on.
ULP!: Ernie turns away and pukes on the floor. Julie soldiers on.
JULIE: Oh geez. It's not so ( GULP ) revolting. After all, physical beauty is just a socially-enforced myth that we, uh, oh shit. ULPI Julie turns away and pukes on the floor.
RICK: ( OFFENDED )
RICK: Get away from me you, you.
JUAN: Freak? Ha ha hahahaha! ( he stares hard at Rick ) I am Juan the Dog Boy, leader of the freaks.
JULIE: ( walks up to them ) Kind of the "top dog." Juan scratches himself behind the ear with his hind leg.
JUAN: Welcome to Hell, Rick. Shake? He extends a hand to Rick. Rick doesn't take it. He hears a slight RUSTLING noise from the direction of the cubicles, and turns to look around the apparently empty Freak House.
RICK: No thanks. I don't plan on staying long. How many of you are there in here anyway? Juan shrugs mischievously and sticks his snout in Rick's First, I have a question for you, Ricardo. Who starred in the film "International Velvet?"
JUAN: First, I have a question for you, Ricardo. Who starred in the film "International Velvet?"
RICK: Well, perhaps we should ask the The top right cubicle lights up, revealing the WORM. He is a man with no arms and legs, and the wrinkly, slimy body of a worm. His face is learned-looking, with spectacles, a small goatee, and a pipe which he puffs on pompously.
JUAN: Well, perhaps we should ask the The top right cubicle lights up, revealing the WORM. He is a man with no arms and legs, and the wrinkly, slimy body of a worm. His face is learned-looking, with spectacles, a small goatee, and a pipe which he puffs on pompously.
JUAN: Tell us, Worm, who starred in "International Velvet?" He puffs pensively on his pipe for a second.
THE WORM: Yes, yes . very interesting. International Velvet. The perfectly appalling sequel to National Velvet, I believe. No dramatic verisimilitude whatsoever.
JUAN: Yes, Worm. But who was the star? The worm takes a long, thoughtful drag on his pipe.
WORM: Olivia DeHavilland.
JUAN: Olivia DeHavilland. Rick, do you agree or disagree?
RICK: This is nuts. This is crazy. Besides, it was Tatum O'Neill.
JUAN: Very good. It was Tatum O'Neill, now married to tennis star John McEnroe. Circle gets the square. The lights come on in 9 of the center cubicles, silhouetting 9 freaks in a full size HOLLYWOOD SQUARES 3 x 3 layout. The FREAKS applaud Rick's success. He's incredulous.
OTHER FREAKS: Worm nudges an "0" into place in his cubicle, with some difficulty. He's not happy about being proved wrong.
WORM: Blast. O'Neill . No talent okay, JulieErnie, your turn. Who's it going to be? As Juan names the freaks one by one, their square is highlighted, and they wave at Rick cheerily.
JUAN: okay, JulieErnie, your turn. Who's it going to be? As Juan names the freaks one by one, their square is highlighted, and they wave at Rick cheerily.
BEARDED LADY: ( gruff and masculine ) How ya' doin.
JUAN: SOCKHEAD is a freak with a large button-eyed sock puppet for a head. He's munching cookies which ,spill uselessly out of his throatless sock mouth.
JUAN: The Human Torch! The HUMAN TORCH is a man engulfed in flames. He waves Rosie the Pinhead! ROSIE is a pinhead in dark sunglasses. She has a great bod jammed into a sexy dress. She smokes a cigarette demurely, and waves a small, arrogant big-star wave.
JUAN: Rosie the Pinhead! ROSIE is a pinhead in dark sunglasses. She has a great bod jammed into a sexy dress. She smokes a cigarette demurely, and waves a small, arrogant big-star wave.
JUAN: The hideous Frog Man! Frogman is just a guy in a scuba outfit. He strikes a threatening "monster" pose, then gives a friendly wave.
JUAN: And of course, in the center square, Mr. Paul Lynde! Suddenly the lighting changes to flashing red horror lights with plenty of dark shadows. There's a horrific MUSIC STING and we ZOOM IN to a DECOMPOSING SKELETON in the center cubicle. Its eyeball drips out of the socket.
JUAN: Well JulieErnie, who will it be?
ERNIE: Call me old-fashioned, but I'll go with Paul Lynde.
JULIE: Don't be an idiot. They argue back and forth, hitting and poking each other 3 Stooges style. Juan turns to Rick.
JUAN: You see, Rick? Just because we're freaks doesn't mean we can't have some fun, huh? Rick is overwhelmed by it all. He backs away.
RICK: Get away from me. Get away! I'm not like you. You hear me? I'm Ricky Coogan! I AM NOT A FREAK!
ERNIE: Okay Coog, so I get twenty four hour access to T `n' A, and you look like a plate of rancid giblets. We're still pals, right? Rick shoots him a look.
JULIE: All the freaks have gone through this anguish, Rick. At first, I was blinded by my anger. I admit it. I wanted to break your neck for getting me into this. But I got over it. Juan taught me to channel my anger for the common It was your fault, anyway. You wanted to see the freak show.
RICK: It was your fault, anyway. You wanted to see the freak show.
JULIE: ( FURIOUS )
RICK: Oh. Sorry, Coog. For a second there, I was a total man-hater. Julie regains her cool. She takes out a pamphlet, scribbles something on it, and hands it to Rick.
ERNIE: Oh. Sorry, Coog. For a second there, I was a total man-hater. Julie regains her cool. She takes out a pamphlet, scribbles something on it, and hands it to Rick.
JULIE: Here. Take it. Rick examines the cover. He reads it aloud.
RICK: "So You're a Hideous Mutant Freak Now What?" There's an "8" scribbled on the pamphlet.
JULIE: we're in cubicle eight. Maybe later you'll be ready to talk.
RICK: Forget it. Not me. I'm not like those other god-forsaken animals. He throws the-pamphlet to the ground, just as the Worm, Bearded Lady, and Sockhead approach. They sit down in a circle around him. The Worm looks down at the pamphlet and puffs thoughtfully on his pipe.
WORM: You're mistaken, Rick. You are exactly like us. We were all normal healthy folk before we made the fateful mistake of visiting this hell hole at an off hour. Why, when I first came here.
WAVY FLASHBACK: DISSOLVE TO:
WORM: At first, the transformation was fabulous. I truly understood the worm's ethos like never before. But those early days of fascination are over. Now, in retrospect, I think the whole thing is a fucking headache. I'd sell my soul just to be able to wipe my own ass. He sniffles a little, but manages to hold back the tears. We pan to Sockhead.
SOCKHEAD: I first came here as a tourist, looking for some fun.
FLASHBACK: DISSOLVE TO:
SOCKHEAD: Sorry. I'm not much for stories. The camera moves in on the BEARDED LADY.
BEARDED LADY: When I arrived here, I was nothing like I am now.
FLASHBACK: DISSOLVE TO:
FLASHBACK: DISSOLVE TO:
WORM: You are one of us now, Rick. Whether you admit it or not. It's Yeah. Says you. The worm shakes his head. The freaks turn and head back to their cubicles. Rick exchanges a look with Julie before she and Ernie turn and head off.
RICK: Yeah. Says you. The worm shakes his head. The freaks turn and head back to their cubicles. Rick exchanges a look with Julie before she and Ernie turn and head off.
TIME DISSOLVE: Hours later, Rick is still staring at the hammer. He picks it up and stares at it more closely.
TIME DISSOLVE: Hours later. Rick is still staring at the damn hammer. He nods with resolve.
RICK: ( TO HAMMER )
JUAN: Hey. Mind your business.
ERNIE: Ernie returns to his book. The camera PANS up to Rick's cubicle. He's sitting on his cot, distractedly whittling a log with his knife-like talon. He talks to himself, making sure to be loud enough for JulieErnie and Juan to hear.
RICK: Well that EES guy should rescue me any minute. Then it's straight to the plastic surgeon and back to sunny old L.A. I wonder how many of my beautiful, anatomically correct girlfriends will be waiting for me.
RICK: Thanks, Stuey. Rick looks up and sees a holographic image of Stuey Gluck floating in the air above him.
RICK: AHH! A phantom troll! He swings the log wildly at the hologram, but it keeps darting around, dodging the blows. Cowboy leans around the cubicle wall. He talks a lot like Gomer Pyle.
COWBOY: ( NEIGHBORLY )
RICK: ( INNOCENTLY )
COWBOY: Sounds to me like you've developed a telepathic bond. Don't mean yer nuts or nuthin'. Heck, old Nosey, why he can smell the future. Lots of us freaks got E.S.P. And Sockhead, he's got E.S.P.N. He points at Sockhead, who's watching pro wrestling on a portable TV.
SOCKHEAD: Watch out, Hulk! He's gonna try the skull cracker!
COWBOY: Shucks, Rick, you're lucky. Telepathy like yours only occurs between real soulmates. A bond like that should be cherished. Cowboy smiles and ducks back into his own cubicle.
STUEY: Wow! I'm Ricky Coogan's soulmate!
RICK: In your dreams! Now get lost, He swings wildly at the hologram, which starts to break up and fade away.
STUEY: ( FADING AWAY )
COWBOY: Shucksm Rick, it don't make sense to spurn your soulmate. I reckon that troll could help you if you just let him into your heart. Rick scoffs at him and starts whittling again.
STUEY: Once America sees what happened to Ricky, they'll probably send the whole FBI down to save him!
STUEY: I'll probably win a Pulitzer prize for this scoop. And I'll dedicate it to Rick! He walks through the door. Beat. SMASH! He comes flying out through the glass and lands on his butt. THE "TIME MAGAZINE" DOORSMASH! Stuey flies out through it. THE "U.S.A. TODAY" DOORSMASH! Stuey flies out through it. THE "WEEKLY WORLD NEWS" DOORWe see Stuey and an EDITOR silhouetted against the glass.
STUEY: ( READING ALOUD )
LAUGHING MAN: Heh heh heh heh hehh heh.
STUEY: Sure I wrote the article. But
LAUGHING MAN: No. You've got it all wrong. I don't know anything about that. You gotta believe me.
STUEY: No. You've got it all wrong. I don't know anything about that. You gotta believe me.
LAUGHING MAN: Ho-ho-hahahaha hee hee hoohaaa!
THE LIMO: cruises off down the street. We hear a POWER DRILL, Stuey's SCREAMS, and Laughing Man's hearty CACKLE from inside.
HUMAN TORCH: Wow, what a great model! ( he points at a toothpick ) But look, this one's crooked. He reaches out to fix it andWOOF! The whole model burns to a cinder. Rick looks at him hatefully.
HUMAN TORCH: ( STUPIDLY )
ELIJAH: Alright, freaks! Get ready for the glamour! Get ready for the glitz! Get ready to be pelted with rotten vegetables, 'cause it's showtime!
ELIJAH: It's grisly! It's revolting! It'll make you wish you were dead! And at just twelve bucks a head, you can bring all the kids! We follow a KINDLY FATHER through the curtained entrance. OOF! He collapses, a knife embedded in his chest, revealing the total mayhem.
CLOWN: C'mon, my granny could throw better than you! He's talking to an OLD LADY, who throws a baseball, hits the target, and dunks the clown into the foaming bath of carbolic acid. We hear his gurgling screams, then his bony hand reaches up out of the bath. Elijah walks out on stage and looks at the rowdy audience. It's total mayhem.
ELIJAH: ( CALMLY )
ELIJAH: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, you are about to witness a cavalcade of atrocities so horrific, I advise the more sensitive members of our audience to leave the premises. Two SENSITIVE LOOKING MEN wearing sweaters draped over their shoulders politely get up and leave.
ELIJAH: Tonight I'm proud to announce the addition of several new monstrosities to the show, including our star attraction, the Beast Boyan untamed and highly dangerous ghoul who's liable to go nuts and kill us all at the drop of a hat. ( impressed "oohs", "ahhs", and "cools" from the
AUDIENCE ): But first up, prepare to behold an unspeakably repulsive yet heartwarming atrocity, Three Men and a Baby! THREE MEN AND A BABY, all fused into a single multi-limbed freak, walks out onstage. One of its arms holds up a dirty diaper, and all the three men hold their noses and grimace. The audience breaks into warm-hearted laughter and applause.
BACKSTAGE: The freaks mill around in the caged-in green room, guarded by Toad. Frogman, dressed in a magician's outfit over his wetsuit, holds an empty dove cage and searches the room, whistling for his missing dove. Nosey sneezes up a cloud of feathers. JulieErnie walk determinedly towards the adjacent Men's and Women's restrooms. BONK! They hit the wall between the two doors. Rick is reading his "script", rehearsing his lines. He's wearing a cheesy "jungle" costume.
RICK: Arrrggg. I am Beast Boy. I will eat you. Arrrghh. ( he throws down the
SCRIPT ): I can't do this shit! He peers through the bars, scanning the audience for signs.of a rescue party.
RICK: Damn it! What's keeping those The Worm creeps up behind Rick.
WORM: Something's troubling you, my boy. what is it?
RICK: Well, let's see. I've been kidnapped, hideously disfigured, imprisoned with a bunch of mutant freaks, my rescue party is M.I.A., and this dialogue makes "Hey Dude Three" read like "Dr. Zhivago."
WORM: I think I know what you're going through. I too had an eating disorder. You see, I've always had a feverish obsession with pudding. And when I was a young lad. Rick groans and looks out at the audience.
ELIJAH: And now a perennial favorite here at Freakland, ladies and gentlemen. I know you'll all enjoy the musical stylings of Rosie the Pinhead. Rosie the Pinhead struts out wearing a sexy dress and holding a microphone. After the applause dies down, she whips off her sunglasses with a flourish, revealing her extremely goofy- looking crossed eyes. She wails incomprehensibly and bonks her head with the mic.
ELIJAH: And now a perennial favorite here at Freakland, ladies and gentlemen. I know you'll all enjoy the musical stylings of Rosie the Pinhead. Rosie the Pinhead struts out wearing a sexy dress and holding a microphone. After the applause dies down, she whips off her sunglasses with a flourish, revealing her extremely goofy- looking crossed eyes. She wails incomprehensibly and bonks her head with the mic.
ROSIE: ( DROOLING )
ERNIE: Hey Julie, how many feminists does it take to screw in a light bulb?
JULIE: How many?
ERNIE: Two. One to screw it in and one to ride my Rodney! Ha-ha-ha!
JULIE: She bonks him with their cane. He bonks her back. She knocks him cold. They both fall down.
BEARDED LADY: If your coloring is in the autumn range, like Maria's, try an earth tone eye makeup. Now I've done a lovely French braid on Maria, but I encourage everyone to experiment and use your imagination. The main thing is to just have fun with it. The audience is engrossed. Some take notes.
SOCKHEAD: is ringing those "tuned bells" and singing along.
SOCKHEAD: Edelweiss, Edelweiss. He takes a bow but his sock is snagged on the mic stand. It pulls off and reveals a normal-sized hand where the sockhead washe's actually a hand-head! The audience gasps. A MAN gets up and points accusingly.
MAN: He's got a hand under there!
SOMEONE ELSE: It's a hoax! Sockhead realizes he's unveiled and tries to hide his hand- head with his other hands. The crowd starts jeering and pelting Sockhead with rotten vegetables. He gives them the finger with all three hands. Elijah tries to calm them.
ELIJAH: Puppetteering is an admirable skill in its own right! Give him his Where's the beast boy you promised us!? Bring on the beast boy! We want the beast boy! ( etc. )
THE CROWD: Where's the beast boy you promised us!? Bring on the beast boy! We want the beast boy! ( etc. )
BACKSTAGE: The Worm is still talking to Rick. We can hear the crowd screaming for him in the background.
WORM: And when I won first prize, they never called me pudding-head again.
RICK: Don't you see? You must turn your hardship into inspiration! You're an actor, Rick! Your body is your instrument, and with it you must play your tragic symphony for all the world! Rick is really moved. Elijah pokes his head backstage.
WORM: Don't you see? You must turn your hardship into inspiration! You're an actor, Rick! Your body is your instrument, and with it you must play your tragic symphony for all the world! Rick is really moved. Elijah pokes his head backstage.
ELIJAH: ( TO RICK )
RICK: ( determined, inspired ) I'll be right there.
WORM: ( SINCERE )
RICK: ( thinks Worm is joking ) Ha-ha! Always the wit, eh Worm?
WORM: ( TO HIMSELF )
ONSTAGE: The spotlight reveals Rick, centerstage, poised in Shakespearean garb. The crowd quiets down and focuses on Rick with great respect and awe. A truly dramatic silence. Rick pauses for effect and then launches into a soliloquy with bravura.
RICK: Now is the winter of our Made glorious summer by this son of But I that am not shaped for sportive tricks, Nor made to court an amorous looking glass, I, that am curtailed of this fair Cheated of feature by dissembling The audience is riveted. Even Spanish-speaking peasants are mouthing the words. Elijah, however, thumbs through his script, totally confused. The freaks watch through the bars from the wingscompletely engrossed, especially Julie. Juan notices this and pulls her closer to him, but she pushes him We move in on an erudite British gentlemen in the crowd. By God! It's ALISTAIR COOKE! He turns to camera. Subtitle:
ALISTAIR COOKE: ( SOTTO VOCE )
FILTHY PEASANT: Cooke turns back to the stage. The words in brackets appear as SUBTITLES.
SHHH!: Cooke turns back to the stage. The words in brackets appear as SUBTITLES.
RICK: Deformed, unfinished, sent before my time,
{I'M UGLY}: Into this breathing world, scarse half made up,
RICK: I'm saved! Haha! You sorry mutants are gonna rot in this hole while I'm sipping mint juleps by the pool!
RICK: ( TO KEVIN )
KEVIN: Rick, Rick, listen, I really love this new look you've come up with. But just between you and me, I don't think the guys upstairs would really get it.
RICK: What are you saying!?
KEVIN: ( CHUCKLES SNIDELY ) ALISTAIR COOKE
ALISTAIR COOKE: AH-HA-HA-HA! WHAT A PUTZ! Rick looks around, horrified at the sea of evil, jeering faces. He begins to tremble. Then.
RICK: EAT SHIT! POP! He plucks Kevin's head off his neck and holds it aloft. The head stares down at Rick in disbelief.
EAT SHIT!: POP! He plucks Kevin's head off his neck and holds it aloft. The head stares down at Rick in disbelief.
KEVIN'S HEAD: Now you're just being childish. Rick serves the head like a volleyball, smashing it to bits. The crowd panics and charges for the exits.
CROWD: AHHHHHH! HELP! LET US OUT OF People are trampling over each other in the mayhem. Alistair Cooke is crushed under the stampede.
HERE!: People are trampling over each other in the mayhem. Alistair Cooke is crushed under the stampede.
ELIJAH: Now that's entertainment.
NOSEY: I'd like to buy a vowel. The Bearded lady yawns. Rick edges towards them.
RICK: Hey. The Wheel. Mind if I sit in? Juan advances towards Rick, sneering.
JUAN: So. Now you don't mind mixing with ushow did you say itsorry Look! I'm sorry for what happened at the show. Can't you just forget He shakes his finger at Juan, and notices there's still a human nose stuck on his monster claw. He wipes it off, embarrassed. There's an awkward pause. Ernie breaks the Hey, shouldn't you tell Rick about your big escape plan? Juan gives Ernie a nasty "shut up" look. He growls at him.
RICK: Look! I'm sorry for what happened at the show. Can't you just forget He shakes his finger at Juan, and notices there's still a human nose stuck on his monster claw. He wipes it off, embarrassed. There's an awkward pause. Ernie breaks the Hey, shouldn't you tell Rick about your big escape plan? Juan gives Ernie a nasty "shut up" look. He growls at him.
ERNIE: Hey, shouldn't you tell Rick about your big escape plan? Juan gives Ernie a nasty "shut up" look. He growls at him.
ERNIE: Well, excuse me for living.
RICK: You have an escape plan?
JUAN: Listen, Beast Boy, the games are a simple diversion.
FREAKS: Juan's plan is really ingenious Rick. See, he figured out that
JULIE: Juan's plan is really ingenious Rick. See, he figured out that
JUAN: I figured out that our escape does not include the Beast Boy. No one may discuss the plan with him, Juan gives the others a threatening look. They mumble What's the matter with all of you? You trust your lives to a guy just 'cause he can lick his own The freaks ponder this a second, then nod "yes".
RICK: What's the matter with all of you? You trust your lives to a guy just 'cause he can lick his own The freaks ponder this a second, then nod "yes".
ERNIE: You gotta admit, Coog, it's a helluva trick.
RICK: ( RESENTFUL )
JUAN: Haha! I have spent a year studying this hellhole, devising the perfect escape. You think you'll just tango right out the door!? Ha! Just try it, amigo.
RICK: I will! Rick turns to go. JulieErnie rush over and try to reason with him quietly.
JULIE: Rick, wait.
ERNIE: Yeah. Don't go off half-cocked. Believe me, it ain't all it's cracked up to be.
JULIE: This isn't one of your dumb movies, Coogan. Look, Juan's a good dog, a smart dog. I'll talk to him. Don't be stupid, Rick. You can't do it without us.
RICK: Forget it! I don't need you, EES, or anybody else! I'll get out of here all by myself, you. you.,. crud sucking pus monkeys! DING DING DING! The letters in the Wheel of Fortune board light up, and ROSIE turns them over to reveal "Crud Sucking Pus Monkeys" as the secret phrase. Everyone claps despite themselves. Juan stares them down. They stop. Rick storms off in a huff. Juan takes Julie's hand and gazes deep into her eyes. He kisses her passionately. Julie is watching Rick leave. Juan nibbles her neck, which gets her attention. She scratches Juan behind his ear. His leg instinctively kicks the air. Ernie looks worried.
ERNIE: I'm getting a bad feeling here.
RICK: He peers out through a crack in the door and sees a MILKMAN getting out of his truck in the driveway.
RICK: ( TO MILKMAN )
OUTSIDE: The milkman looks over at the outhouse, suspicious.
MILKMAN: Yeah. ?
MILKMAN: Oooh no! I know you freaks. You'll try anything just to get someone to open that door. Well not me! Ha! He's about to walk away.
RICK: Okay. Guess I'll just have to milk the world's biggest breasted woman all by myself. Sorry to bother The milkman stops in his tracks. He tiptoes over to the back door of the outhouse, listening intently as Rick goes into his "act."
RICK: ( in a lusty womanish
VOICE ): Ooohh. Milk me! Milk me now! Milk me hard! ( Normal Rick voice ) I've only got two hands, all right? Geez. I don't care if Elijah did give you skim milk on the right side, chocolate on the left, and eggnog in the middle. The milkman is salivating at the door.
MILKMAN: ( TO HIMSELF )
MILKMAN: Hey, what the BONK. We hear the sound of bottled buttermilk beaning his soft noggin. Rick walks out wearing the milkman outfit complete with the little six-milk-bottle-carrier thing.
RICK: He looks over at the giant head. The eyes are still staring at himthey seem to have shifted. Rick shrugs it off and looks around. He walks over to Elijah's car. It's locked too. He checks the big eyes. They've moved again. Rick's getting a bit desperate. He sees something else and runs towards it. It's a dry-docked motorboat. It's locked too. The eyes have followed Rick again. He sees something else and runs over to it. It's a bag of golf clubs leaning against Elijah's porch. They're locked too.
RICK: Damn! This guy doesn't trust He looks at the giant head- the eyes are gone, leaving only empty eyesockets! Rick hears A BURST OF MACHINEGUN FIRE behind him, spins around and faces .
RICK: A T.V. MONITOR in Elijah's hands, shows Rick staring at us, the Eye's POV.
AHHHH!: A T.V. MONITOR in Elijah's hands, shows Rick staring at us, the Eye's POV.
ELIJAH: seen in extreme close-up, watches the surveillance monitor. He speaks into a microphone. We don't see what the room looks like.
ELIJAH: Good work, Eye and Eye.
THE EYES: bob in response to Elijah. They have no mouths, but their pupils open and close when they speak.
ELIJAH: ( TO RICK )
RICK: No thanks. Elijah points to a bowl of Fiddle Faddle. Toad sits beside Fiddle Faddle? ( Rick shakes his head ) You sure?
ELIJAH: Fiddle Faddle? ( Rick shakes his head ) You sure?
RICK: Well, okay. ( he scoops some into his
MOUTH ): Well, are you gonna torture me or kill me or something?
ELIJAH: Torture my greatest creation ever!? Kill the final piece of the puzzle that I've been putting together for years!? Sure, it'd be fun, but I've got a bigger plan, my boy.
RICK: But I thought I scared everyone Uh-huh. And then they told two friends, and they told two friends, and so on, and so on. Look at Elijah grabs a big mail bag and spills some letters out on the table. Elijah opens one and reads it.
ELIJAH: Uh-huh. And then they told two friends, and they told two friends, and so on, and so on. Look at Elijah grabs a big mail bag and spills some letters out on the table. Elijah opens one and reads it.
ELIJAH: ( READING )
RICK: Yeah, but she loves everything. Rick reaches for the Fiddle Faddle but the bowl is empty. Toad BURPS.
ELIJAH: Toad! That Fiddle Faddle is for guests only! You've had enough! Toad is blankfaced. Elijah walks over and refills the bowl. Rick scoops some into his mouth. Elijah walks to the fireplace and pushes the embers around with a poker.
RICK: Look SkuggsElijahI've been in show business all my life. The public does not want to see disgusting, depraved violent filth.
ELIJAH: Oh, and I suppose Jake and the Fatman is just a fluke? The phone rings. Elijah looks at it, and back to Rick.
ELIJAH: On the other end of the line, we hear LAUGHING MAN's insane chuckle. Elijah's smooth smile fades. He turns his back to- Rick, who strains to identify the familiar laughing voice. Elijah scribbles notes on a pad by the phone.
ELIJAH: Yes. Right. Tomorrow. Mmhmm. Mnunhmm. Wow. Okay. You got it. Hasta la vista to you too. Hahaahahaahaha Laughing Man hangs up on Elijah. He looks a little pissed- off as he turns to face Rick again. Grumbling, he takes the poker in hand, and pokes at the coals angrily.
ELIJAH: Okay, Coogan. I'm finished with you for now. Ricky rises and snatches the notepad just before Elijah spins to face him.
TOAD: I told you enough!
AAAGGGGHH!: I told you enough!
ELIJAH: I told you enough!
ELIJAH: Bye-bye. And remember, try another escape, and I'll feed your balls to As he walks towards the Freak House, Rick pulls out the note he pocketed. A gust of wind blows it away from him. He chases it behind the carnival tent where. KKCCLIINNK! He runs into ELEVEN PHONY MILKMEN, backing their way around the corner, each carrying their own six-pack of milkbottles. Startled, they turn around. Why, it's the freaks! And they're all dressed as milkmen! Cowboy carries the hammer, who's dressed in a little milkman suit as well.
BEARDED LADY: Hey Rick, I thought you were gonna come up with your own escape plan?
RICK: ( TO JUAN )
JUAN: Twelve milkmen is theoretically possible. Thirteen is silly. Looks like one milkman too many, He pushes Rick aside. The freaks continue past him.
RICK: Fine then. Go ahead. Hope you like reggae, ya flea bitten Rick watches as the Freaks approach the open courtyard, where he knows the Eyeballs will spot them.
RICK: Ah, shit. He runs over to the Freaks. He stands in Juan's way.
RICK: Look, you'll all be killed. You don't know about Elijah's giant Rasta eyeballs with machine guns. ( they think he's nuts ) It's suicide! I can't let you do And I can't let you stop us. This is it. Rick and Juan square off. Juan growls and bares his teeth. Rick's MONSTER EYE starts to glow and pulse dimly. They circle each other. The others are transfixed.
JUAN: And I can't let you stop us. This is it. Rick and Juan square off. Juan growls and bares his teeth. Rick's MONSTER EYE starts to glow and pulse dimly. They circle each other. The others are transfixed.
ELIJAH'S POV: He peers through a side window, and sees the pack of milkmen cheering two of their coworkers, locked in mortal combat.
ELIJAH: That's a lot of milkmen on the same route. No wonder they fight. Juan rears back, about to lunge, when suddenly he freezes and looks off into the distance.
A SQUIRREL: is sitting innocently a few yards off.
JUAN: He zooms off after the squirrel. The Eyes pop out of the giant head and follow after him, Uzis FIRING. Juan dodges their bullets and disappears after his prey. The freaks watch their best chance of freedom run off after a pesky rodent. They turn to Rick.
NOSEY: Wow, giant Rasta eyeballs, just like Rick said.
SOCKHEAD: Gosh, if it wasn't for Rick, we'd all be dead!
OTHER FREAKS: Yeah! Way to go Rick! Alright!
ERNIE: ( TO JULIE )
RICK: You know how men are. Besides, it was a pretty good looking squirrel. Julie looks at Rick. She sees he's trying to be helpful, not ( to the others ) Come on. You heard the Beast Boy. Back to the Freak House, now. Her eyes meet Rick's. She manages a smile, and Rick smiles back. Ernie sizes up the situation and groans as they all head back to the Freak House.
JULIE: ( to the others ) Come on. You heard the Beast Boy. Back to the Freak House, now. Her eyes meet Rick's. She manages a smile, and Rick smiles back. Ernie sizes up the situation and groans as they all head back to the Freak House.
ERNIE: Not again.
BOB: Notice the way I use an elliptical motion to chafe Stuey's buttocks. ( the Goons nod
ATTENTIVELY ): It's all here in my new book: Pipes, Fixtures, and Torturing
TROLLS: LAUGHING MAN( O.S. ) ( Loud, sharp laugh )
STUEY: No way. I'll never talk! I'm made of stone! Bob considers this a second, then starts up a jackhammer.
STUEY: HELP! RICK! RIIIIIIIIIICCKKK! INT. FREAK HOUSE - DAY We hear LONESOME HARMONICA MUSIC as we pan past the cubicles. Cowboy is playing the harmonica. The Bearded Lady unties the pretty pink ribbon in his hair and sets it aside. Suddenly, we switch to HORRIFIC PSYCHO STINGS as the camera picks up PAUL LYNDE'S CORPSE with flashing red lights. His eyeball drips out of the socket again. Then it's back to the SAD HARMONICA MUSIC. In the next cubicle, Ernie is sleeping, Julie is awake, dreamily fondling a large eclair. She looks longingly up towards Rick's cubicle as we.
DREAM DISSOLVE: Rick ( his face is normal ) and Julie kiss passionately in a billowy white bed amidst puffy clouds.
DREAMLAND: Rick ( his face is normal ) and Julie kiss passionately in a billowy white bed amidst puffy clouds.
RICK: ( SINCERE ) QUICK DISSOLVE BACK TO:
QUICK DISSOLVE: BACK TO:
JULIE': We follow her gaze, panning up to Rick. He's lying on his bed, dreamily fondling a donut. He looks down towards Julie's cabin.
DREAM DISSOLVE: Rick and Julie kiss passionately. We're tight on them.
DREAMLAND: Rick and Julie kiss passionately. We're tight on them.
JULIE: Oh Rick, you've touched a place in me no one has ever touched before.
QUICK DREAM: DISSOLVE TO:
STUEY HOLOGRAM: Rick! Do something! It's up to you, Rick! Pleeeeeeease!
RICK: The Laughing Man! Rick watches the hologram break up and disappear. Wheels spinning in his head, he takes the crumpled piece of paper out of his pocket and reads it.
RICK: ( under his breath ) Holy shit!
ERNIE: It says it's strong enough for a But it's made for a woman! She grabs it away and shoves it in Ernie's mouth. Rick walks Hey Rick. What's up?
JULIE: But it's made for a woman! She grabs it away and shoves it in Ernie's mouth. Rick walks Hey Rick. What's up?
JULIE: Hey Rick. What's up?
RICK: Read this. I grabbed it from Skuggs' office. He hands her the notepaper. She reads it, with some difficulty. Ernie is still gagging on deodorant.
JULIE: "Tape Donahue. Renew Subscription to Beaver World." She gives Rick a disgusted look. Ernie mumbles with the deodorant in his mouth.
ERNIE: ( interested, muffled ) Beaver World!? Julie smacks himhe swallows the deodorant.
RICK: ( TO JULIE )
JULIE: "Prepare demonstration for Laughing Man, receive five thousand barrels of Noxon." Five thousand barrels!?
RICK: Elijah's up to something big, and we have to stop him. Ernie BELCHES. Rick sniffs the air.
RICK: Mmmm. Jasmine.
RICK: Alright guys, listen up Sockhead suddenly freaks out.
SOCKHEAD: We're done for! We're done for! I don't want to die! It's the end of the world! The apocalypse! Aahh! He stops. Everyone is staring at him.
RICK: I haven't said anything yet.
SOCKHEAD: Sorry. I'm not much for timing. He takes his seat again.
RICK: ( TO EVERYONE ) ( TO SOCKHEAD )
NOSEY: ( TO SOCKHEAD )
RICK: And I've got a plan.
NOSEY: I still say we kill him. Sockhead nods again.
RICK: If we can get into Elijah's lab, maybe we can
WORM: Of course! Design a super freak of our own and manipulate the genetic code to make him destroy Elijah instead of us! Brilliant!
RICK: Oh. Well
BEARDED LADY: But how do we get to the lab?
RICK: Um, maybe
COWBOY: Right! The worm could dig a By God, it's so crazy it might just But you need Noxon 24 to make the freaking sludge, and Elijah told us himself he's run out of it.
WORM: By God, it's so crazy it might just But you need Noxon 24 to make the freaking sludge, and Elijah told us himself he's run out of it.
ERNIE: But you need Noxon 24 to make the freaking sludge, and Elijah told us himself he's run out of it.
RICK: Oh. Oh yeah. Well, see, what I was going to say was
JULIE: Yes! Exactly! If they've been using Noxon 24 as a fertilizer here, the entire ecosystem must be soaked with it! All we need is a way to extract it from the vegetation, ideally into a liquid Right. Well, what about
RICK: Right. Well, what about
COWBOY: Golly! So that's why my milk comes out that funny green color! I thought the grass tasted funny! Wow, Rick, you're a genius!
JULIE: ( SMILES WARMLY )
NOSEY: Way to go, Rick! How did you ever think of such a plan? Rick pulls out an old comic book and points to an ad for Sea Well, actually, I was going to suggest we send away for sea monkeys, train them to fire guns, and make a break for it. But if you want to go with this other thing, I guess that's okay. The freaks stare at him, not sure if he's kidding or not.
RICK: Well, actually, I was going to suggest we send away for sea monkeys, train them to fire guns, and make a break for it. But if you want to go with this other thing, I guess that's okay. The freaks stare at him, not sure if he's kidding or not.
ELIJAH: runs out on his front porch in his nightclothes and screams down at the outhouse.
ELIJAH: WOULD YOU TURN DOWN THAT GODDAMN IN THE FREAK HOUSE Nosey turns off a boom box and the music cuts short. The freaks exchange tense looks. Nosey calls out apologetically to Elijah.
RACKET!?: IN THE FREAK HOUSE Nosey turns off a boom box and the music cuts short. The freaks exchange tense looks. Nosey calls out apologetically to Elijah.
NOSEY: ( to the freaks ) What a jerk!
RICK: Hey, look at this! They all stop and look. Rick fingers the hole, and the rocks cave in, revealing
WORM: Good Lord! It's the Lost City of KER-CHUNK! We hear the sound of a slide projector switching slides and the underground city is replaced by a still image of some tourists standing around a geyser. [foriegn version: the Blarney Stone].
JULIE: KER-CHUNK! We hear the sound of a slide projector switching slides and the underground city is replaced by a still image of some tourists standing around a geyser. [foriegn version: the Blarney Stone].
RICK: It's Old Faithful! ( foriegn take: "It's the Blarney Stone!"] They "Ooh" and "Ahh". The image switches to a snapshot of a
ERNIE: It's my Aunt Gladys! The other freaks nod politely. The image switches to a BAR
ERNIE: And that's me at my bar mitzvah!
RICK: C'mon Ernie, let's go.
ERNIE: Wait, you gotta see the ones from sleep-away camp! They're Julie smacks him.
JULIE: EXT. FREAK COMPOUND - NIGHT It's an "Antfarm View" of the yard, where the freaks are visible tunneling underground, and Toad is visible on the yard above them. We see a bat fly overhead. ZAP! Toad shoots out his tongue, snags it out of mid air, and chews it happily, oblivious to the freaks burrowing right underneath INT. FREAK HOUSE Nosey looks at the nearly full container of distilled Noxon.
NOSEY: Almost there. ( he sniffs the air ) But wait, I'm getting a whiff of things to come!
BEARDED LADY: What do you smell?
NOSEY: ( GRIM )
NOSEY: ( CHEERFUL )
BEARDED LADY: INT. TUNNEL They're burrowing along. Ernie loudly clears his throat. Julie spits out a loogie. She grimaces.
JULIE: I hate when you do that. We hear muffled BARKING.
ERNIE: Hey! Do you hear that?
JULIE: It's a dog!
RICK: ( TO WORM )
RICK: SAPPY MUSIC wells up.
RICK: It's been ten years since you chased this ball into the sewer! I thought you were gone for good!
SCRAPPY: Listen Scrap. Go home. Get help. Good boy! Now go! Scrappy runs away into the sewer pipe. Rick shrugs.
RICK: Listen Scrap. Go home. Get help. Good boy! Now go! Scrappy runs away into the sewer pipe. Rick shrugs.
SCRAPPY: Good boy! Now go! Scrappy runs away into the sewer pipe. Rick shrugs.
RICK: Good boy! Now go! Scrappy runs away into the sewer pipe. Rick shrugs.
RICK: You never know. Julie taps on some exposed wood on the cavern ceiling.
JULIE: Look, a wood floor.
WORM: It must be the lab! we've done it! They all look at each other excitedly. Suddenly Elijah's voice rings out behind them.
ELIJAH'S VOICE: Not so fast, you scabrous freaks! They spin around and see Nosey holding the bottle of Noxon 24. He grins.
NOSEY: Didn't know I did impressions, did INT. FREAK HOUSE The freaks are waiting around the hole. Nosey pops out.
NOSEY: Mission accomplished. They've got the Noxon, and they'll be in the lab within minutes.
FROGMAN: Boy, this is going like clockwork! Everyone smiles, pats each other on the back, etc. Except Sockhead, who finally snaps.
SOCKHEAD: No! Can't you see we're digging our own graves!?
HERE!: He runs amok, pushes various freaks to the ground, and runs around screaming. The freak house door opensEye and Eye step in to check out the noise. One of them has a spliff sticking out of its pupil. Sockhead charges at them like a mad dog. They aim their Uzis.
SOCKHEAD: ( at the Eyes )
SOCKHEAD: ( WEAK )
NOSEY: What is it, kid?
SOCKHEAD: Ah, forget it. I'm not much for He goes limp.
ERNIE: Shit. I can't see a damn thing.
RICK: Keep your voice down, Ernie.
ERNIE: Don't push me, Coog. I got a real short fuse today. I'm cranky, bloated, got a wicked case of cramps. Don't ask why.
JULIE: ( whispers to Rick )
RICK: ( has to think about this ) Oh.. Right. Rick pats Ernie on the shoulder reassuringly. He moves over to Elijah's computer terminal.
RICK: ( CONT'D )
WORM: Good work, my boy. Now step aside. This is scientist's work. Worm muscles Rick out of the way and sits at the console. Using a pen held in his mouth, he flicks a series of switches and punches a fast series of computer keys. The light on top of the Tasty Freekz machine starts to revolve, and after a couple of seconds, a stream of GOOEY LIGHT BROWN GLOP oozes out of the spigot.
ERNIE: Hey! It's working!
RICK: You did it, Worm! Way to go!
JULIE: But how? You didn't even use the The Worm rushes over to the container of glop below the spigot, and without hesitation, plunges his face into it! Rick, Julie, and Ernie gasp in horror! The WORM lifts his glop-smeared face out of the bowl, and smacks his lips in delight.
WORM: Ah! You don't need Noxon to make Butterscotch pudding. I just wanted to test the machine's capabilities. Mmmm! Glorious! So creamy! Yum! The Worm is lost in his pudding-induced reverie. They ignore him. Julie turns to Rick.
JULIE: Hang on, Rick. Do you really think we should put this toxic glop on you? What if it doesn't work? What if something goes wrong? What
IF: If it does work, do you think there'll be enough left over to give me a monster size rodney? Julie goes to doink Ernie in the eyes, but he uses the classic "Three Stooges" handblock.
ERNIE: If it does work, do you think there'll be enough left over to give me a monster size rodney? Julie goes to doink Ernie in the eyes, but he uses the classic "Three Stooges" handblock.
RICK: ( TO ERNIE )
RICK: ( TO ERNIE )
ERNIE: Seven bucks.
JULIE: Sometimes seven fifty.
RICK: Alright. It doesn't matter.
ERNIE: Sure it does. They don't let you into the theater if you don't pay the price of the ticket.
RICK: Look, I'm talking about the ultimate human sacrifice.
JULIE: No kidding. When you consider money for parking, popcorn, The worm chimes in, still gorging himself on pudding.
WORM: Don't forget a sitter for the Rick's had enough.
RICK: Hey! In case you haven't noticed, I'm about to commit a noble and selfless act here. Rick pounds the table, sending a glass beaker flying. It smashes through the window, setting off a loud SIREN.
RICK: ( BEAT )
ELIJAH: Styrofoam cup? He puts on his "smiley face" robe and bunny slippers and heads out the door.
WORM: Don't you think we should make some more pudding first, as a test?
RICK: No. Here goes. He presses some buttons on the computer, and the Tasty Freekz machine starts humming. Ernie is looking out the window.
ERNIE: Somebody's comin'! Hurry.
RICK: We have to wait. There's no way to speed up the machine.
JULIE: Here it comes.
RICK: It's plugged up! They look over at the doorknobit's still turning.
ERNIE: ( TO WORM )
WORM: ( under his breath ) Preposterous. I have no neck. I'm a worm, imbecile.
ELIJAH: Aaargh! Damn buttered popcorn!
OUTSIDE: Elijah is wiping his hands off on his shirt tails. He tries the door knob again.
WORM: The tunnel walls are about to You go ahead. I'll catch up.
RICK: You go ahead. I'll catch up.
JULIE: The door knob is turning more vigorously, but still not opening. Julie and Ernie get in the hole with Worm, while Rick attends to the almost-full Pepsi cup of sludge.
BUT: The door knob is turning more vigorously, but still not opening. Julie and Ernie get in the hole with Worm, while Rick attends to the almost-full Pepsi cup of sludge.
RICK: The door knob is turning more vigorously, but still not opening. Julie and Ernie get in the hole with Worm, while Rick attends to the almost-full Pepsi cup of sludge.
OUTSIDE: Elijah is still having trouble with his grip.
JULIE: Rick! Come on! Rick is losing his balance as the ground shifts beneath him. He sways, and knocks the Pepsi cup of sludge rolling. He watches, helpless, as it rolls across the floor and comes to a stop across the room. For a second, he contemplates making a dash.
OUTSIDE: Elijah has wrapped his shirt tails around the knob, and finally has a good grip. He twists the knob.
INSIDE: Rick sees the door opening. He dives down into the hole. The floor board falls into place just as Elijah walks in. Elijah scans the room. He goes over towards the Tasty Freekz machine and finds the styrofoam cup.
ELIJAH: Bad for the environment. He crumples it in his hand.
WORM: Just made it!
RICK: Paul saved our lives!
NOSEY: Way to go, Paul! Nosey claps Paul on what's left of his backhis skeleton shatters and the tunnel collapses, burying him instantly. The freaks are horrified.
NOSEY: turns to them guiltily in SLOW-MOTION. His voice is slowed down and distorted like John Lennon at the end of "Strawberry
NOSEY: I. buried. Paul. Back to normal speed.
RICK: This is no time to lament over a cadaver! We've got to get moving, or we're history! Now c'mon! Nosey is still morose. He speaks backwards and sounds a lot like "Revolution #9".
NOSEY: Daed si luap. SUBTITLE: "Paul is dead."
RICK: I said enough! Okay, listen up, everybody. We cracked the code and made the ointment we need to bring Skuggs down for good. The freaks applaud and cheer.
RICK: But we left it in the lab. The freaks jeer and pelt Rick with rotten vegetables. He desperately pulls a bag of cookies out of his pocket.
RICK: But wait! I found some macaroons! And there's plenty for all of us! The freaks burst into applause again.
FREAKS: TIME DISSOLVE
TIME DISSOLVE: INT. FREAK HOUSE - DAY The Freaks are all sleeping, macaroon crumbs still left on their faces. There's a lot of snoring. Rick awakens with a start. He hears something in the distance. Something like a helicopter. He gets up and peeks out a crack in the wall.
RICK: ( under his breath ) I don't believe it. What's Hertz doin' here? The door to the Freak House opens. Hertz enters, unzips his fly. Finding no toilet, he shrugs and relieves himself on the floor. Rick steps out of the shadows towards him.
RICK: So EES is in bed with Elijah C. Skuggs, eh? Figures. Hertz is momentarily startled by Rick. He collects himself.
HERTZ: Rick! Thank God I got to you in Cut the crap, Hertz. Hertz relieves himself as he talks.
RICK: Cut the crap, Hertz. Hertz relieves himself as he talks.
HERTZ: Ricky, you have no idea how your misfortune has touched our hearts. When you disappeared we almost gave up hope. But we'd heard reports of Skuggs's reckless abuse of Noxon, and when the story broke in the tabloids, I decided to personally come down and get to the bottom of He zips up and heads to the door.
RICK: ( SKEPTICAL ) ( BEAT )
HERTZ: ( BEAT )
TORCH: Peuw! Hey! Of all the. That really pisses me off! POOF! He catches fire again and walks off. Rick is doing a slow burn, still looking after Hertz. He erupts and his monster eye glows briefly. He screams in anguish.
RICK: Dejected, Rick leans against the wall. JulieErnie walk up behind him. Julie puts a hand on Rick's shoulder to comfort him. As they look into each other's eyes, a loud CRASH distracts them. Rick peers through the crack.
AAARRGGGGHH!: Dejected, Rick leans against the wall. JulieErnie walk up behind him. Julie puts a hand on Rick's shoulder to comfort him. As they look into each other's eyes, a loud CRASH distracts them. Rick peers through the crack.
RICK'S POV: A caravan of EES trucks crash through the front gate and drive up to the lab. There's a few cargo trucks and a huge NOXON-24 tanker.
RICK: Holy shit. A forklift drives out of the back of one of the large trucks, carrying the old corporate farts on a wooden palette. One of them falls off, and a bunch of WORKMEN scramble out to prop him up and push him back into place.
ELIJAH: Nice to see you in the flesh, Laughing Man.
HERTZ: No need to use codenames, Elijah. We're all friends here. And just to prove it, I brought you a little Hertz snaps his fingers and nods to a security guy, who produces a wriggling canvas sack. He dumps its contents onto the lab tableit's Stuey Gluck! His glasses come tumbling out after him. He squints at the security guy.
STUEY: Rick? Is that you?
ELIJAH: Who's the troll?
HERTZ: He was asking questions about Coogan, causing trouble. We figured he was one of yours. Stuey puts on his glasses. Elijah looks him up and down.
ELIJAH: I make freaks alright, but come on, fellasthis thing's pathetic.
STUEY: Well you're no Julio Iglesias yourself, mister.
RICK: Oh no, not now, Stuey! The ghostly image of STUEY gradually takes shape in front of Rick. Rick can make out the lab table Stuey's on, and some shadowy figures in the background.
RICK: ( TO HIMSELF )
STUEY: Yes! I'm in the lab! I'm in the Not only ugly, he's crazy too. Toad grabs Stuey and slaps a piece of tape over his mouth. He throws him into one of the chicken cages along the far wall. A two-headed chicken starts to peck at him.
ELIJAH: Not only ugly, he's crazy too. Toad grabs Stuey and slaps a piece of tape over his mouth. He throws him into one of the chicken cages along the far wall. A two-headed chicken starts to peck at him.
HERTZ: So, where were we?
ELIJAH: Gentlemen, I'm not going to bullshit you. I know my setup here at Freakland looks like small He pulls the cover off a small scale model of Freakland, about ten inches high. It shows the stage, lab, outhouse, the head, everything.
ELIJAH: But thanks to your Noxon and my genius, tonight I will turn Ricky Coogan into a freak so hideous, it'll be enough to turn your stomach inside out, boil your brain in its own juice, and cause cold sores you thought had healed up to start buggin' you again. ( the EES men shift
UNCOMFORTABLY ): It's the dawning of a new age for us all. Behold, Super Mega Freak He whisks the cover off another scale modelit's exactly the same as the little model except it's a lot bigger.
HERTZ: ( FEIGNS APPROVAL )
ELIJAH: We'll kick Disney's dead ass!
RICK: Stuey! Stuey, can you hear me? Stuey's image, still with his mouth taped shut and the chicken pecking at him, nods yes.
STUEY: Mmm hmmm!
RICK: I want you to try and escape. Get the cup from underneath the instrument table and bring it to me, okay?
STUEY: ( NODS )
RICK: Yeah, right. Get movin'.
HERTZ: At EES, our plans for your Gene Machine include everything, except shoes that is. Ha-ha-ha.
ELIJAH: Ha-ha. Gee, I'd love to see your We'd love to show you. ( to his assistant ) Bill, if you'd be so kind. BILL BLAZER, a slick and dashing EES marketing executive, strides confidently up to the podium. Stuey has to duck the fast approaching legs. Bill steps over him, not even noticing he's there. Bill takes Elijah's "Freak World" graphic off an easel, and replaces it with his own. Finding no place to deposit Elijah's, he simply drops it on the floor. Elijah looks a little hurt.
HERTZ: We'd love to show you. ( to his assistant ) Bill, if you'd be so kind. BILL BLAZER, a slick and dashing EES marketing executive, strides confidently up to the podium. Stuey has to duck the fast approaching legs. Bill steps over him, not even noticing he's there. Bill takes Elijah's "Freak World" graphic off an easel, and replaces it with his own. Finding no place to deposit Elijah's, he simply drops it on the floor. Elijah looks a little hurt.
BILL: What does today's businessman want? How about a receptionist with six arms, five mouths, and a knockout figure? That'd sure speed things up, wouldn't it? With a big smile, Bill reveals an illustration of a multi- limb secretary ( in a sexy dress ) talking on three different phones, taking notes, and typing, all at once. Stuey heads towards the Pepsi cup. He brushes against the back of Hertz's legs. Hertz looks over at Elijah beside him, who smiles politely. Hertz smiles back, invitingly. Maybe there's a few things we don't know about him.
BILL: In the factory, how 'bout a worker with twelve busy hands, no mouth to talk back, and no genitalia or digestive system to distract him from his work?
HERTZ: Ricky who? The executives laugh heartily. Stuey glances across the room to the door. He has to make a break for it, so he does.
ELIJAH: Hey! Hold on! Stuey freezes. He's right out in the open, in plain view. Still, nobody seems to see him. They're still watching- Bill's presentation.
ELIJAH: Secretaries? Worker drones? Where's the fun? Where's the spark? Where's the unspeakable Bill laughs pleasantly.
BILL: Ha-ha. I was just getting to that.
BILL: We'll impact every field.
COSMETICSBREAST ENLARGEMENT: creams, nosejobs in a bottle. Militaryhuman death machines that make Schwarzenegger look like a pansy! And why stop at consumer products? Hell, we can design a whole new consumer! A few well placed drops in the water supply, and bingo! It's a new master race, and we own the copyright! An entire planet of freaks owned and operated by us! Every part of their bodies comes from an EES supplier, every thought they think is EES policy! From now on gentlemen, it's EES uber alles! EES uber alles! The EES guys clap and shout approval. Elijah's impressed too. He leans over to Hertz.
ELIJAH: This guy's good.
HERTZ: We lured him away from A.T. Stuey is finally out the door. Of course, now they spot him.
SECURITY GUY: Look! The troll!
HERTZ: After him!
STUEY: Mmm! Mmmmm!
RICK: Take the tape off your mouth, idiot! They didn't tie your hands! Stuey realizes this is true, and pulls the tape off his I got the cup, Rick!
STUEY: I got the cup, Rick!
RICK: Great! There's no time to waste. Are you being followed?
STUEY: Yeah. But if I don't move, they won't see me. Two big EES security guys are standing watching Stuey's odd behavior. They pick him up and carry him away.
STUEY: Rick sees this all in his holographic image. It fades.
RICK: What a geek. He turns to the other freaks, who've woken up and are gathered around on the floor. Rick shakes his head.
RICK: Stuey got caught. There's no way to get the ointment before the So, that's it then? We're all to die. And by your hand no less.
WORM: So, that's it then? We're all to die. And by your hand no less.
RICK: No. It won't be me. It's some inhuman monster Elijah used me to create. As for me, the real me, I'll always be your friend. Before I have to rip your heads off, I'd like to say goodbye to each of you. ( He turns to Worm. ) Worm. I'll miss your brains, the smell of your pipe, and the funny way you always go on talking until everyone wants to strangle you. He pats the Worm on the head tenderly, and turns to Cowboy.
COWBOY: Hi, Rick.
RICK: Cowboy, I'll miss your good humor, your down-home wisdom, and of course, the frothy milkshakes were udderly delicious, heh-heh. He smiles and playfully tugs Cowboy's udder. He turns to the Bearded Lady.
RICK: Bearded. Lady. I dunno. We'll always have Paris. Bearded lady is kind of confused, Rick shrugs.
RICK: Nosey, I never really liked you. He moves on to Frog Man.
RICK: Frog Man, I think death is probably the best thing for you now. Frog Man nods in agreement. Rick rpaches JulieErnie.
RICK: Ernie. Julie. I have mixed ( He turns to Ernie ) On one hand, I'll remember you as the best friend a jerk like me ever had, and a low down repulsive He turns to Julie. ROMANTIC MUSIC swells up.
JULIE: Oh, Rick. They embrace. Rick calls out to the assembled group.
RICK: Today I make the proudest boast a man can utter: "Ich bien ein They're all ready to cheer, but they're confused by his bad German. Rick has to explain himself.
RICK: Uh, I'm a freak. Oh. They all get it. Beat. Then they cheer.
ELIJAH: And now the moment you've all been waiting for. Ladies and gentlemen, meet the lucky young man who's about to be become the monster with the mostest! Here he is, the Beast Toad pulls a rope and the curtain opens, revealing Rick strapped to an operating table. On stage left there's a large cage containing all the other freaks. Including the unconscious, half-naked Milk Man who Rick knocked out in the freak house. The Milk Man domes to, looks around in a panic, grabs the bars of the cage, and screams
MILK MAN: AAHHHH! WE'RE IN A ZOO! Rick searches the cheering audience for Stuey, who waves the Pepsi cup full of glop in the air. Rick hears Stuey's voice echo in his head telepathically.
ELIJAH: With this remarkable ointment of my own design, I will now turn this half-finished ghoul into the ultimate super freak, dedicated to Elijah puts on some rubber gloves and prepares to glop Rick, who squints under the spotlight, still searching for Stuey. He calls out telepathically.
BIKER: ( TO STUEY )
STUEY: All eyes turn to Stuey, who falls down and disappears onto the floor screaming.
AAAHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!: All eyes turn to Stuey, who falls down and disappears onto the floor screaming.
RICK: Oh no!
BIKER: What the hell!? Suddenly an EIGHT FOOT TALL MONSTER VERSION OF STUEY leaps to its feet and snarls down at the biker. The biker pulls a switchblade and jams it into Stuey monster's legthe blade crumples on his armor-like hide. Stuey grins and SLAM! He drives the biker into the ground like a railroad spike. He leaps onto the stage and stalks Elijah.
STUEY MONSTER: YOUR ASS IS MINE, SKUGGS! Rick and the freaks in the cage cheer stuey Monster on.
ELIJAH: Uh-oh, that kid looks pissed. EYE
RASTAFARI!: The bullets bounce off Stuey's hide. He doinks them with his big monster fingers and sends them flying through.
ELIJAH: Stuey Monster roars at Toad. Toad smiles weakly.
TOAD!: Stuey Monster roars at Toad. Toad smiles weakly.
ELIJAH: looks worried. He scoops up some "evil ointment".
ELIJAH: Looks like it's time to roll out the big gun.
RICK: Suit yourself. He raises the ointment over Rick. Rick has an idea for a last word.
ELIJAH: Suit yourself. He raises the ointment over Rick. Rick has an idea for a last word.
RICK: Wait! Wait! ( Elijah pauses. Rick
RECONSIDERS ): Elijah glops Rick. His skin starts to smoke.
RICK: Stuey Monster stalks Elijah onstage. Rick is smoking and shaking violently on the table.
AHHHHRRRGGG!: Stuey Monster stalks Elijah onstage. Rick is smoking and shaking violently on the table.
HERTZ: turns to his EES cronies in the audience. He looks bored.
HERTZ: What a waste of twelve bucks. Let's get the machine and go. The other executives nod.
RICK: starts to transform. FWOOP! His ears spring out into huge monster ears, kinda like in Pinocchio. FWAAP! His mouth grows into a massive, Big Daddy Roth style monster mouth. FWEEP! His upper head does the same. His body follows suit. He bursts' out of the straps and grows into a drooling TEN FOOT TALL RICK MONSTER. He snarls at Stuey Monster.
RICK MONSTER: TIME TO DIE, TROLL! The crowd and the other freaks look on, tense. Stuey Monster instinctively whips out a Ricky Coogan publicity photo and a Rick! Rick! Could you sign Rick Monster snarls and bashes Stuey Monster in the face. Stuey Monster jams the pen through the photo and snarls back.
STUEY MONSTER: Rick! Rick! Could you sign Rick Monster snarls and bashes Stuey Monster in the face. Stuey Monster jams the pen through the photo and snarls back.
THE CROWD: FIGHT! FIGHT! FIGHT! FIGHT! Even Julie is screaming "Fight! Fight," beside herself with bloodthirsty glee. Ernie smacks her. The crowd goes nuts as the monsters trade a series of cliche pro-wrestling moves. Stuey bashes Rick. Rick bashes Stuey, Give him the skull cracker, ya big No way! The skull cracker is an illegal move! Stuey grabs Rick's hair and marches him around the stage. The crowd is taking sides, screaming out advice, and foaming at their mouths.
ELIJAH: Give him the skull cracker, ya big No way! The skull cracker is an illegal move! Stuey grabs Rick's hair and marches him around the stage. The crowd is taking sides, screaming out advice, and foaming at their mouths.
ERNIE: No way! The skull cracker is an illegal move! Stuey grabs Rick's hair and marches him around the stage. The crowd is taking sides, screaming out advice, and foaming at their mouths.
ELIJAH: Let's get this over with. Hey Hertz, tell your goons to ( he turns to Hertz and is
STUNNED ): What the hell-!?
HERTZ: stands in front of the a group of EES HARDHATS who are using forklifts to move the Tasty Freekz Machine towards the exit. He notices Elijah and taps his executive ASSISTANT.
ASSISTANT: ( TO ELIJAH )
ELIJAH: What are you saying!?
HERTZ: What we're saying is. get stuffed, yokel.
ELIJAH: I figured I couldn't trust you corporate greaseballs! Elijah turns to an alarm box on the wall which reads "BREAK GLASS IN CASE OF DOUBLECROSSING CORPORATE GREASEBALLS." He breaks the glass and pulls the lever inside.
ELIJAH: Let me proudly introduce the latest in our product line, Noxon 25now available in a convenient pump!
HERTZ: Bullshit! The Everything Except Shoes corporation releases no new products unless I give the order!
ELIJAH: I think it's time EES branched out a little. He presses the plunger and the nozzle spews a torrent of yellow glop on the EES people. They scream in agony as their bodies melt together into one big mutating blob. Alistair Cooke stands up in the audiencehe's got a head bandage and a crutch from being trampled at the last show.
ALISTAIR COOKE: Ahhh! Head for the hills before he gets all of us! The crowd goes berserk and rushes the exits, trampling poor Cooke like a roach.
RICK MONSTER: flips Stuey onto the ground and starts stomping on him. Stuey is knocked out cold. Rick leaves him on the floor and stalks the freak cage murderously.
RICK MONSTER: NOW I RIP FREAKS TO PIECES! No! We're your friends!
JIMIE: No! We're your friends!
RICK MONSTER: Oh. NOW I RIP FRIENDS TO PIECES! He rips some bars off the cage and is about to spear JulieErnie with a jagged steel bar when Stuey Monster grabs his leg and trips him. Stuey summons all his remaining energy to wrestle Rick, delaying him, for the moment, from slaughtering the freaks. Meanwhile, Elijah is watching as
ELIJAH: Now that's a really, really big shoe. Ha-ha-ha-ha! Hmmm, I think I'd like a pair of those! He swivels the nozzle turret towards the cage full of freaks and is about to glop them when Rick stands up above Stuey, blocking Elijah's trajectory at the freak cage. Rick raises the jagged bar above Stuey, ready to drive it down through his chest.
ELIJAH: ( to Rick monster ) Would you hurry up and waste the troll, please!? I got a lonely shoe over here! Rick Monster nods and drives the spear down when we.
RICK: And then.
KATHIE LEE: Sorry to interrupt Rick, but you've been talking for almost ninety minutes, and we've just got to go to a commercial.
RICK: We'll be right back after this, A fine array of different kinds of cheese on a chopping TOUGH VOICED ANNCR You like cheese. You like being a man. That's why you like.. A BURLY HAND swipes all the cheese off the block and slams down an aluminum can labeled "MACHEESMO."
REGIS: We'll be right back after this, A fine array of different kinds of cheese on a chopping TOUGH VOICED ANNCR You like cheese. You like being a man. That's why you like.. A BURLY HAND swipes all the cheese off the block and slams down an aluminum can labeled "MACHEESMO."
PRODUCT SHOT: A fine array of different kinds of cheese on a chopping A BURLY HAND swipes all the cheese off the block and slams down an aluminum can labeled "MACHEESMO."
KATHIE LEE: And now back to the exciting conclusion of Ricky Coogan's incredible story.
RICK: Well, let's see, the other freaks were lined up in Elijah's sights, and I was about to shove a pipe through Stuey's skull, when all of a sudden, I heard a voice.
ELIJAH: Kill him! Kill him! Elijah's bloodthirsty goading fades away, and Cowboy's voice reverberates in Rick's head.
COWBOY: Your heart. your heart. your Rick Monster loses his murderous glare. He breaks into a warm smile, throws the pipe away and helps Stuey Monster up. They hug. The rest of the Freaks cheer wildly.
ERNIE: Atta' boy Coog!
WORM: Tosh. ( Sniff ) Sentimental claptrap ( Sniff ) Shameless, maudlinBaaa! He can't hold it in anymore. He bawls like a baby. Meanwhile, Elijah is hopping mad.
ELIJAH: Cut the lovey-dovey bullshit, and start mutilating each other! He aims at Rick Monster and presses the fire button. The Glop starts to flow, but before it can make it out of the tip, Rick grabs hold of the nozzle, and twists it around to face Elijah.
RICK: Elijah manages to duck just in time. A stream of yellow Noxon 25 glop flies over his shoulder, and lands in the DUNK TANK full of carbolic acid that sits off to one side of the The acid and the Noxon mix together and bubble up menacingly. Elijah hops down out of the gunner's chair and squares off against Rick Monster.
ELIJAH: You think I made you strong? HA! I've cranked my DNA up so high, you won't know what hit you. I'm a wrecking machine! Aaaaaaa! He rushes at Rick and delivers a flurry of punches to his mid section. They have absolutely no effect. Rick brings one heavy fist slamming down on Elijah's head, stopping him cold.
ELIJAH: ( WEAKLY )
RICK: Maybe you'll feel this . Rick rears back to kick him.
ELIJAH: Qaitif you kill me, you'll never find the antidote. The freaks all perk up. Rick's skeptical.
RICK: What antidote?
ELIJAH: A time release serumI baked it into a delicious batch of A slow smile grows on the Freaks' faces, especially Rick's.
RICK: If you ask me, you skimped on the THWAK! Rick boots Elijah between the legs, sending him flying through the air. He lands on the DUNK TANK SEAT over the bubbling Noxon/Acid. Dazed, he looks at the bullseye target, and back at Rick. Summoning up his last ounce of bravado, Elijah makes a last stand.
ELIJAH: Come on, Coogan! Come oooon! You haven't got the guts to kill me! Go on! I dare ya'! Rick ponders for a second. He looks over to Julie. Then.
SCRAPPY: Yap! Yap!
RICK: Scrappy the dog rushes in. He leaps up and presses the bullseye, dropping Elijah into the hideous mixture.
ELIJAH: Elijah struggles in agony. His body bubbles and mutates in the thick toxic soup. He sinks lower and lower into the gunk, until he and his cries are buried for good. Scrappy leaps into Rick's arms and licks his face.
AAAAAAAARRRRRRGGGGGHHHH!: Elijah struggles in agony. His body bubbles and mutates in the thick toxic soup. He sinks lower and lower into the gunk, until he and his cries are buried for good. Scrappy leaps into Rick's arms and licks his face.
SCRAPPY: Atta boy, Scrap! BLAM! BLAM! The tent flaps fly open and a half dozen FBI AGENTS rush in with guns drawn.
RICK: Atta boy, Scrap! BLAM! BLAM! The tent flaps fly open and a half dozen FBI AGENTS rush in with guns drawn.
FBI CHIEF: Freeze, FBI! Another FBI GUY investigates the dunk tank, sees Elijah's hat floating on top of the bubbling ooze.
CHIEF: Nice work, Ricky. You'll get a medal from the Vice President for Great. But how did you
RICK: Great. But how did you
CHIEF: We've been following Skuggs for years. Scrappy just filled in some of the details.
SCRAPPY: FBI CHIEF
FBI CHIEF: Thank heavens you brought him to justice, Rick. God only knows how far his sick plans would've gone.
FBI CHIEF: Is nothing sacred? Suddenly, the agents are distracted by a terrible scream. They turn to the dunk tank and are shocked by what they see.
FBI CHIEF: Oh, my Lord!
RICK: No! It can't be! We SWISH PAN over to reveal a DRIPPING BLOB climbing out of the dunk tank. The blob separates into two distinct entities with their backs to us. They turn around and.my God it's. it's..
ELIJUS: Thought you killed me, huh?
ELLY LEE: What the hell are you looking at?
FBI CHIEF: Two pieces of deadmeat!
RICKY: And that's my story.
KATHIE LEE: ( YAWN )
REGIS: And long! My God! It makes War and Peace sound like a warm up act!
REGIS: It's fixed? Well, it's about time! The lights come onno more silhouettes. Ricky looks perfectly normal, his old self. His weird silhouette was caused by a potted plant and some strange hanging mobile behind him.
RICKY: That's better.
REGIS: I'll say.
KATHIE LEE: Can we bring out the other freaks The audience cheers as the rest of the Freaks walk out from the wings, and stand off to the side waving to the audience. They all look clean cut and happy. They wear T-shirts with their former identities printed on them. "I was NOSEY," "I was COWBOY," "I was the BEARDED LADY" etc. Except the Worm, who's still a worm. His T-shirt says, "I'm Still THE WORM".
WORM: Ridiculous. Just because a man doesn't like macaroons. Suddenly a squirrel runs across stage, followed by Juan. He pounces and catches the furry little bugger.
JUAN: Gotcha! Damn, it's about time!
JUAN!: Hey guys! Jeez! You look great! They all hug.
JUAN: Hey guys! Jeez! You look great! They all hug.
REGIS: That's just great. What a story. And what an ending! Elijah transformed by the goop!
KATHIE LEE: And he really looked like?
RICK: Exactly like you two, I swear. Same faces, same outfits, except they had these really big, hideous He looks down at Regis and KATHIE LEE's feetthey're big, hideous monster feet! Suddenly their eyes glow bright red It's Elijus and Elly Lee! They speak with Elijah's voice.
ELIJUS: Show's over, Ricky!
ELLY LEE: I'm gonna drink your blood! Elly Lee pulls a machete and is about to force it down on Rick's throat when. BANG! BANG! BANG! Elijus and Elly Lee's eyes go funny. They look at each other, spit up some blood, wave to the audience one last time, and collapse to the floor. Julie stands behind them, smoking gun in hand. She rushes to Rick. They embrace.
JULIE: Rick! It's finally over!
RICK: Yes. Yes it is.
RICK: Look! I found the real Regis and Kathie Lee! Rick and Julie look at the bag, mortified. Stuey chuckles.
STUEY: Look! I found the real Regis and Kathie Lee! Rick and Julie look at the bag, mortified. Stuey chuckles.
STUEY: ( matter of fact ) This is Regis and Kathie Lee. Rick and Julie nod casually"Oh."
AUDIENCE: Suddenly Elijus and Elly Lee pop up from behind the couch, bloodied, but still fierce. They're about to stab Rick and Julie when. BANG! BANG! BANG! BANG! BANG! Five more shots ring out and they fall deadagain. Ernie stands off to the side with a smoking gun.
ERNIE: Oh, like that wasn't totally Well, now it really is over. Sappy END OF THE MOVIE MUSIC wells up.
JULIE: Well, now it really is over. Sappy END OF THE MOVIE MUSIC wells up.
RICK: Thank God. You know, this adventure has taught me something.
ERNIE: Right, Coog. I learned somethin' too. That men and women truly are equals. That the human spirit transcends gender and physical appearance, and thus it is immune to the petty degradations men may devise. I believe it was Moliere
WHO SAID: Julie's had enough. She socks Ernie square on the jaw.
JULIE: Oh, shut up. ( She turns to Rick ) Let's go fuck. Rick gives her the thumbs up. They turn to the audience.
ROLL CREDITS: As the credits roll, and everybody continues to smile and wave at the cheering audience, Elijus and Elly Lee attack again. Ernie hands the gun to Stuey, who shoots them dead. Well, dead-ish. Seconds later, after some more waving, they attack again. This time Nosey and the Bearded Lady stab them to death, sort of. A little more waving, before Elijus and Elly Lee make another pathetic attempt. They can barely stand. Cowboy clubs one with a mic stand. Worm head-butts the other. A few seconds later, Elijus's bloodied hand gropes its way over the top of the studio couch. Stuey has to prop him up while members of the audience are invited down to punch him in the chops. Ernie stands off to the side, charging everyone five bucks per blow. As we fade, everyone's having a go flipping, throwing, kicking and impaling rag doll replicas of America's favorite morning show hosts.
THE END?!: Writers : Tim Burns Tom Stern Alex Winter
