LONG SHOT: The quadrangle of Army buildings is quiet and deserted. A broken-down taxi drives in at one corner and slowly makes its way around the quadrangle. SUPERIMPOSED over shot is the
HAWAII, 1941: SIX MONTHS BEFORE The taxi pulls up across the street from camera. A soldier gets out, pulls two heavily loaded barracks bags after him. He pays the driver, hoists the bags to his back, moves toward camera. The taxi drives away slowly. The soldier walks toward steps leading to a low building. He is PREWITT ( called "PREW" for short ), 22 years old, well-built, good-looking. He wears an enlisted man's uniform and on the sleeves are marks where chevrons have been removed. He pauses, looks up over the door. CAMERA PANS UP to sign which reads: ORDERLY ROOM - G
PEARL HARBOR: The taxi pulls up across the street from camera. A soldier gets out, pulls two heavily loaded barracks bags after him. He pays the driver, hoists the bags to his back, moves toward camera. The taxi drives away slowly. The soldier walks toward steps leading to a low building. He is PREWITT ( called "PREW" for short ), 22 years old, well-built, good-looking. He wears an enlisted man's uniform and on the sleeves are marks where chevrons have been removed. He pauses, looks up over the door. CAMERA PANS UP to sign which reads: ORDERLY ROOM - G
MEDIUM SHOT: A small thin soldier in an undershirt and fatigue pants backs out of the screen door and into shot. He is wielding a frayed broom. This is PRIVATE ANGELO MAGGIO. He is violent and funny and sour and friendly. He sees Prewitt's legs but not his face, speaks as he sweeps a cloud of dust off the porch.
MAGGID: Fine way to pass the time. Good for the mind.
PREW: Hello, Maggio. Maggio turns and stares at Prew, astonished.
MAGGIO: ( NODS )
PREW: ( NODS )
MAGGIO: You quit the Bugle Corps.?
MAGGIO: To here.?
PREW: ( SHRUGS )
MAGGIO: You made a bad mistake. This outfit they can give back to Custer. Prew smiles slightly, starts toward door.
MAGGIO: The Captain ain't in yet. Prew puts down his barracks bags.
PREY: I'll look around.
MAGGIO: ( smiles for first time ) Maybe we borrow some money from a twenty per cent man and take a real trip to town some night.
PHEW: TRUCKING SHOT ALONG COMPANY STREET Prew walks slowly down the raised porch alongside the street. He takes the mouthpiece of a bugle from his pocket, jiggles it idly, a habit of his. He comes to the Dayroom, glances through the screen door, goes in.
MEDIUM SHOT: The Dayroom has a pool table, ping-pong table, a radio, etc. Moth-eaten, upholstered chairs line both walls. The place is empty as Prew enters. He looks around casually, sees the pool table in an alcove. He moves over to it, puts the bugle mouthpiece in his pocket, picks a cue from the rack on the wall. He switches on the light, chalks the cue.
PREW: Prewitt. Transfer from Shafter.
WARDEN: Yeah. I heard about you.
PREW: I heard about you, too, Warden.
WARDEN: Well, put up that cue and come along. This here's a rifle outfit, Prewitt. You ain't suppose to enjoy yourself before sundown. The Man's very particlar about little things like that. Warden goes out of the Dayroom. Prew puts up the cue and follows him.
TRUCKING SHOT: as Prew and Warden walk along the porch, Warden a few paces ahead. They go into the Orderly Room.
MEDIUM SHOT: as Prew and Warden enter. Maggio is sweeping the room. MAZZIOLI, a bespectacled, intellectual-looking Private First Class, is at the clerk's desk, opening it, taking out papers, etc. Prew sits on a bench as Warden goes over to Mazzioli.
WARDEN: Mazzioli! Grant went to the hospital yesterday. Did you make up his sick record? Did you make a note for the morning report?! You're the Compny Clerk. The lousy Sickbook is your job!
MAZZIOLI: Those medics didn't get the Sickbook back till late yesterday I'll tend to it right now
WARDEN: Thanks. I already done it for you.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Maggio has swept his way over to Prew. He stops sweeping now, stares at the other man as if still incredulous.
MAGGIO: But you the beat bugler they got over at Shatter. You probly the best on this whole Rock. In b.g., Warden has turned from Mazzioli and is looking at Prew. Prew looks back coolly, answers Maggio thoughtfully.
PREW: That's true. Maggio wags his head, bends over to pick up wastepaper Well, friend, I feel for you. But from my position I can't quite reach you.
MAGGIO: Well, friend, I feel for you. But from my position I can't quite reach you.
WARDEN: Prewitt, Mazzioli and Maggio spring to attention. The screen door bangs and CAPTAIN DANA HOLMES enters shot. He wears cavalry boots and spurs. He is about forty, unsure of himself, therefore always too certain with his men. He nods
HOLMES: At ease. Good morning, men. Anything special this morning, Sergeant Warden? I've only a few New man here, sir.
WARDEN: New man here, sir.
HOLMES: Oh, yes. Bring him in.
PREWITT: Sir, Private Robert E. Lee Prewitt reporting to the Compny Commander as ordered.
HOLMES: At ease. ( takes papers out of drawer, glances through
THEM ): They sent your service record over. Twenty-two years of age. born in Kentucky. enlisted first at Fort Myer, Virginia. Bugle Corps. re-enlisted for overseas duty. Fort Shafter. First Prewitt, I always make it a policy to talk to my new men. It's important for an officer and his men to understand each other. Now I have a fine smooth-running outfit.
HOLMES: Plenty of room for advancement for a man who knows how to soldier. But he's got to show me he's got it on the ball. I don't know what you've been used to in the Bugle Corps, but in my outfit we run it by the book. What kind of trouble were you in over there?
PREW: No trouble, sir.
HOLMES: What made you transfer out, then?
PREW: It's a personal matter, air.
HOLMES: Oh. I see. He studies Prew for a moment, sees Warden on the edge of his chair, watching hawk-like.
HOLMES: Something you wanted to ask, Who? Me? Whv, yes, air. You had Corpral's stripes in the Bugle Corps, Prewitt. You took a bust to buck Private to transfer to an Infantry Compny. Why? Because you like to hike?
WARDEN: ( EXPLODES SUDDENLY )
PREW: I dint have no trouble if that's what you mean.
WARDED: ( GRINS SUDDENLY )
PREW: It was a personal matter.
WARDEN: That's up to the Compny Commander's discretion to decide.
PREW: ( looks straight at Warden ) All right. I was First Bugler at Shafter for two years. The topkick had a friend who transferred in from the states. Next day he made him First Bugler over me.
WARDEN: And you asked out on account of Maybe I just ain't sensible. But that's the reason.
PREY: Maybe I just ain't sensible. But that's the reason.
WARDEN: ( SNORTS )
HOLMES: I've got a mighty sour Company Bugler here. but I suppose you wouldn't want that job.
PREY: No, air.
HOLMES: ( SMILES )
PREW: No, sir.
HOLDS: I pulled a few strings. I'm the Regimental Boxing Coach, Prewitt. I saw your fight with Connors in the Bowl year before last. With any luck you should have won it. I thought for a while, in the second round, you were going to knock him Thank you, sir.
PREW: ( TENSE )
HOLMES: ( BITTERLY )
PREW: I'm sorry, air. But I quit Quit fighting? When? What for?
PREW: I just stopped, sir. After Maybe you heard about what You mean that fallow you hurt the one that went blind?
HOLMEB: You mean that fallow you hurt the one that went blind?
MEDIUM SHOT: During this shot Maggio can be seen in b.g. through door to Orderly Room. He pretends to be sweeping, but stops now and then to listen.
HOLMES: Yes, it's too bad about that. I can understand how you feel. But those things happen in this game. A man has got to accept that possibility when he fights.
PREW: That's why I decided I would quit, But on the other hand, look at
HOLMES: ( LESS WARMLY )
PREW: They don't.
HOLMES: Would you have us disband our fighting program because one man got hurt?
PREW: No, sir. I dint say
HOLMES: You might as well say stop war because one man got killed. Our fighting program is the best morale builder we have off here away from I don't want it disbanded, sir.
PREW: I don't want it disbanded, sir.
HOLMES: It looks to me like you're trying to acquire a reputation as a lone wolf, Prewitt. You should know that in the Army it's not the individual that counts. If a man wants to get ahead he has certain responsibilities to fulfill that go beyond the regulations. It might look as though I were a free agent, but I'm not. Nobody is. Holmes waits hopefully for a moment, then realizes Prew is not going to respond further. He stands. Prew snaps to Maybe you'll change your mind. In the meantime just don't make any mistakes in my outfit.
HOLMES: Maybe you'll change your mind. In the meantime just don't make any mistakes in my outfit.
WARDEN: ( holds up papers ) Yea, sir! The Compny Pond Report's got to be made out. It's due
TOMORROW: You make it out. Is that all?
HOLMES: You make it out. Is that all?
WARDEN: ( holds up more papers ) No, sir!
HOLMES: Well, whatever it is, you fix it. If there's anything that has to go in this afternoon, sign my name. I won't be back. He goes out, crossing Warden's desk and knocking a wire basket filled with papers on the floor. In a moment, the sound of the screen door slamming is heard. Warden picks up the papers.
WARDEN: He'd strangle on his own spit if I weren't here to swab out his throat for him.
MEDIUM SHOT: as Prew and Warden enter and walk through. Maggio bobs his head approvingly at Prew.
WARDEN: ( one of his unexpected
PHEW: I can soljer with any man.
WARDEN: This ain't the Bugle Corps this is straight duty.
PREW: I'll take my chances. A convertible, top down, drives by and pulls up outside the Orderly Room. KAREN HOLMES, a tall, lean blonde woman, gets out. Her skirt hikes up a little as she goes up the stairs to the Orderly Room. Warden and Prew stop walking and watch her. Karen stops, glances at Warden momentarily, then goes into the Orderly Room.
WARDEN: Since when is this place gettin to be the Royal Hawaiian?
PREW: Who's she?
WARDEN: His wife. Captain Holmes'. They resume walking.
WARDEN: You'll fight, Prewitt. You'll fight because Captain Holmes got a bee in his hat he needs a winnin team to make Mayor. And if you don't do it for him you'll do it for me. I only been in this outfit eight months myself but I learned one thing. My job is to keep him happy. The more he's happy the less he bothers me and the better I run his Compny. So we know where we stand, don't we, I know where I stand. I don't believe that's the only way a man can get along.
PREW: I know where I stand. I don't believe that's the only way a man can get along.
WARDEN: Maybe back in the days of the pioneers a man could go his own way. But not in our time, kid. Today you got to play ball. You got to divide it all by two. They have reached a Dutch door, top half open. A sign over it reads: SUPPLY ROOM.
WARDEN: Lava! Can't I once walk by this Supply Room and find you workin with both hands!
LEVA: ( comes up to door ) I can't do no better on what you people pay me.
WARDEN: Draw some supplies for this man.
PREW: ( surprised, pleased ) I just hate to see energy wasted. Any kind. Besides, you'll be needin Prew walks off, toting the barracks bags. The bang of the Orderly Room door is heard and Lava and Warden look in that LONG SHOT KAREN HOLMES FROM WARDEN AND LEVA'S ANGLE as she walks along porch toward them. She is at a considerable distance. Karen is about thirty. She wears a
WARDEN: I just hate to see energy wasted. Any kind. Besides, you'll be needin Prew walks off, toting the barracks bags. The bang of the Orderly Room door is heard and Lava and Warden look in that LONG SHOT KAREN HOLMES FROM WARDEN AND LEVA'S ANGLE as she walks along porch toward them. She is at a considerable distance. Karen is about thirty. She wears a
LEVA: Her and them sweaters.
WARDEN'S VOICE: Army women. They're cold, they got no more warmth than a diamond. There's no pleasure in Yeah, but this one knows the score. Like I been tellin you.
LEVA'S VOICE: Yeah, but this one knows the score. Like I been tellin you.
WARDEN'S VOICE: ( SARCASTIC )
LEVA'S VOICE: Okay, not around here. But I was back at Fort Bliss with Holmes. When they was married only a year or two. I heard plenty about the lady then. Plenty.
WARDEN'S VOICE: You heard.
LEVA'S VOICE: Okay, never me. But a lot of them. I know some of the Use she played 'around with, don't tell me.
WARDEN'S VOICE: I ain't tellin you. You're tellin Karen stops, a few paces from camera.
KAREN: Good morning, Sergeant.
MEDIUM SHOT: Lava watches, listens avidly but discreetly in b.g. During the dialogue, Karen seems irritated by Warden, who looks at her coolly, appraisingly, physically.
KAREN: I'm looking for my husband.
WARDEN: Captain Holmes just went in town, Oh. Of course, He was to have left some things for me.
KAREN: Oh. Of course, He was to have left some things for me.
WARDEN: No, ma'am, I don't. Is there anythin I can do for you?
KAREN: He's been telling me quite a bit about you lately. My husband. He says you're very efficient.
WARDEN: Yes, ma'am.
KAREN: What is it that makes you so efficient, Sergeant?
WARDEN: I couldn't help it if I was born smart, ma'am. Karen laughs suddenly, loudly.
KAREN: I love that. Well, good-bye, Karen turns and walks back up the porch toward her car. Warden and Leva watch her. When she is out of earshot Leva But man, she sure is one, ain't One what?
LEVA: But man, she sure is one, ain't One what?
WARDEN: One what?
LEVA: One woman.
WARDEN: ( UNCONVINCINGLY )
HOLMES: I'm sorry I'm so late. And about dinner, I
KAREN: It doesn't matter.
HOLMES: I got tied up with General Slater. Bumped into him at the Officers' Club.
KAREN: Yes? What did the General have to Success, he said. Success in war, success in peacetime. And not a word about my promotion. There are times I think the Old Man's just waiting to ship me down. ( slumps into chair ) I've had a bad day all around.
HOLMES: Success, he said. Success in war, success in peacetime. And not a word about my promotion. There are times I think the Old Man's just waiting to ship me down. ( slumps into chair ) I've had a bad day all around.
KAREN: If you'd spend less time buttering Generals and more time with your Company, maybe you'd get that The Company takes care of itself. Or my Topkick takes care of it.
HOLDS: The Company takes care of itself. Or my Topkick takes care of it.
KAREN: I went over there this morning looking for you.
HOLMES: ( FLUSTERED )
KAREN: ( UNEMOTIONALLY )
HOLMES: Now what does that mean?
KAREN: Dana. Give me credit for a few How many, times do I have to tell you I haven't any other women before you'll believe me?
HOLMES: How many, times do I have to tell you I haven't any other women before you'll believe me?
HOLMES VOICE: If it were so, don't you think I'd admit it? The way things are between us now? What right have you to always be accusing me?
KAREN: What right?
TWO SHOT: They are both tense now. Holmes is out of the chair and pacing. Karen combs her hair spasmodically.
HOLMES: That again. How long will it be, I wonder, before I'm allowed to live that down? After eight years, how many times do I have to tell you It Was An Accident?
KAREN: That makes it all right, I suppose!
HOLMES: I didn't say that. I know what it's done to you, but
KAREN: You know I hate to talk about it! He moves over to her.
HOLM ES: How many times do I have to tell you I'm sorry, about that? How many times that I had no way of knowing - He puts his hands on her shoulders. Karen shakes away, rises, faces him.
KAREN: You had a way of knowing, Dana. I want to go to bed. Please get out of my bedroom. Holmes looks at her sullenly, then exits to adjoining room, closing the door behind him. There is a moment of silence, then a sharp snap as Karen breaks the comb in two.
CHOATE: I'm coldern a Idaho winter tonight. Prew shoots, makes a brilliant shot.
MAGGIO: Man, what I would not give to have this character in the corner poolroom in my home town: I'd dress him up on overhalls and a straw hat and put a grass in his teeth, and I would make a whole mint of ghelt off him! Choate laughs deeply. Prew sizes up a new shot.
WILSON: We'd of won last year if we had a good middleweight. You box as good as you used to over at Shatter we're a cinch this year. Prew doesn't respond. He bends over his cue again.
THORNHILL: You ain't forget the Division champs get ten day furloughs, did you, son? Ey?
GALOVITCH: You no talk now, Prewitt. But out in field with us you sing different song. An don't think you are tough guy. Quickest way to stockade is
BEING TOUGH: You heard him. Better think it Lissen, it's his right not to fight if he don't want. Without bein kicked around. Now, we playin pool. Whyn't you take off?
HENDERSON: You heard him. Better think it Lissen, it's his right not to fight if he don't want. Without bein kicked around. Now, we playin pool. Whyn't you take off?
MAGGIO: Lissen, it's his right not to fight if he don't want. Without bein kicked around. Now, we playin pool. Whyn't you take off?
DHOM: You want a busted head, Maggio?
MAGGIO: ( SERIOUSLY )
DHOM: Then keep your big nose out ( turns back to Prew ) Trainin season starts next week Prew has been growing more and more agitated, as much by an inner turmoil as by the men. His control snaps suddenly.
PREW: I told you I quit fightin! I'm through! An that's all she wrote: You guys want to put the screws on, go ahead. I can take anything you hand out!
DHOM: Okay, Prewitt. No halts barred. The five men move off, file out of the Dayroom.
PREW: I just hate to see a good man get it in the gut.
MAGGIO: I just hate to see a good man get it in the gut.
CHOATE: You might as well get use to it, kid. You probly be seein it often before you die.
CHO ATE: . oh, sure, we got a few bad non- coms and we got Dynamite Holmes for a Captain. But I been around twenty years in this Army. They even up. In b. g. Warden and SERGEANT PETE ( POP ) KARELSEN come through from the latrine. The latter is a grizzled, crumbled dog- face, about fifty.
CHOATE: Take A Compny. They got the best Compny Commander I ever saw. But their Topkick he ain't no Warden stops beside Prew and Karelsen moves on, going in to a small room off the main squadroom. Warden's big, powerful body is covered only by a towel around his loins. He smiles at Prew.
WARDEN: Hello, kid. Everythin nice and Never better.
PREW: Never better.
WARDEN: 'at's the lull before the storm, kid. Set yourself. He moves off, goes into the room he shares with Karelsen.
PREW: What's the deal with him, anyway? I can't figure him. The lights are almost all off and activity in the room has The Warden? He's a wild man. He was in the 15th when they seen their action in the Settlement in Shanghai. I heard about it down in the Philippes even. He got himself a DSC and a Purple Heart out of it but you'd never know it if I dint tell you. This next war comes, Warden'll be right in there, standin up on the skyline, trio to get himself killed, but nothing will ever touch him. He'll come through maddern, wildern, craziern ever. All I know is he's the best soljer I ever saw. The lights are all out now and the room is in darkness.
CHOATE: The Warden? He's a wild man. He was in the 15th when they seen their action in the Settlement in Shanghai. I heard about it down in the Philippes even. He got himself a DSC and a Purple Heart out of it but you'd never know it if I dint tell you. This next war comes, Warden'll be right in there, standin up on the skyline, trio to get himself killed, but nothing will ever touch him. He'll come through maddern, wildern, craziern ever. All I know is he's the best soljer I ever saw. The lights are all out now and the room is in darkness.
DHOM'S VOICE: Prewitt! Get in step, Prewitt! Prew frowns slightly. He hops once, changing stride, realizes he is now out of step.
GALOVITCH'S VOICE: Prewitt! Dis a drill, not picnic! Get in step!
DHOM: Prewitt! Step out! Prew steps to the front, still smiling faintly.
DHOM: You march like a drunk gooney bird! Corpral Paluso! Take this man to the track. Send him 'round seven laps double-time rifle at high EXT. CINDER TRACK - DAY Prew running around track, his rifle at high port. He wears a slightly contemptuous smile. CORPORAL PALUSO sits on the grass infield watching him.
HENDERSON: rifle's your beat friend. In case them weapons jams in combat could mean life or death. You got to know 'em inside out. Now I want you to strip them weapons and put it together again. ( holds up stop watch ) The men start taking their rifles apart as fast as they can. Henderson walks around watching them.
HENDERSON'S VOICE: 'at's fair time. Now lemma see you put it together. Prew's hands start to work over rifle parts, putting them EXT. FIELD - DAY CLOSE SHOT THE RIFLE in Prew's hands, assembled, CAMERA PULLS BACK as Prew stands up, holding the weapon. The rest of the men are still working over their rifles, Maggio is staring up at Prew in awe. Henderson grabs the rifle from Prew, turns his back to him, pretending to squint along barrel.
HENDERSON: Your rear sight's way off! You'd be fifty feet off your target at three hundred yards! ( to others, mockingly ) That's what comes when a soljer don't know how to assemble a You better get down to the track and carry it around a few times. Maybe that'll teach you.
THORNHILL: Wide open, ey, Prewitt? Maybe seven laps'll teach you to watch Maggio, wielding his rifle madly, yells over.
MAGGIO: Hey, I saw that I saw what you
PULLED: DISSOLVE TO:
MAGGIO: I use to think a shipping clerk was a dog's life. ( sighs, shakes head ) What I would not give to be back in Gimbel's basement! As they come up to the Supply Room, Warden, neat and cool, is leaning on the counter. He steps aside to let them pass, beams at Prew.
WARDEN: Chow's almost over, men. Better hurry up and wash. `less of course you'd rather go in the way you are.
LEVA: I'm tellin you, Top, she's trouble. You better keep your mind off what you're thinkin.
HOLMES: I won't be back in time to take ( winks at Warden ) Or Reveille either, probably.
WARDEN: Yes, sir.
HOLMES: ( strides back and forth;
JOVIALLY ): All work and no play, Sergeant. All you do is sit around sweating over this paper and that. There are other things in this world beside Warden carries some official papers to Holmes' desk.
HOLMES: ( bending over, tying
SHOELACE ): ( MORE ) HOLMES( CONT'D )
WARDEN: I've been considering it. He turns aside as Holmes straightens up.
HOLMES: Well, I'm going. He claps Warden on the back fraternally.
HOLMES: I'm leaving it in your care, It'll be here when you get back. Holmes goes out. Warden turns back to Holmes' desk. He is still holding the papers in one hand. He looks at Karen's picture, picks it up with his other hand, squints at it, considering the chances very, very carefully.
WARDEN: It'll be here when you get back. Holmes goes out. Warden turns back to Holmes' desk. He is still holding the papers in one hand. He looks at Karen's picture, picks it up with his other hand, squints at it, considering the chances very, very carefully.
KAREN: Oh. If it isn't Sergeant Warden. You better step inside or you'll get wet. Warden opens the screen door and jumps in past the water running off the eaves.
MEDIUM SHOT: as Warden jumps in. He takes off his rain hat.
WARDEN: I am wet.
KAREN: If you're looking for my husband, he isn't here.
WARDEN: ( taking the long chance ) And if I'm not looking for him?
KAREN: ( UNSMILING )
WARDEN: ( QUICKLY )
KAREN: I haven't the slightest idea. Perhaps he's in town. I guess it was `in town' the way you put it, wasn't it? Or perhaps he's at the Club. Having a drink.
WARDEN: ( fishes in his pocket, brings out papers ) I got some papers it's important for him to sign. Today.
KAREN: ( TURNS )
WARDEN: I never like to disturb a man What is it you want, Sergeant?
KAREN: ( TURNS BACK )
WARDEN: I could use a drink myself right now. Bad. Anyway, I got a faint suspicion the Captain's `in town.' Ain't you going to ask me in?
MEDIUM SHOT: The kitchen is small and undistinguished. Karen takes a whisky bottle from a cabinet, pours a straight, stiff drink, puts it on the sink. Warden puts the papers down and drinks. Karen sits on a high kitchen stool.
KAREN: You're taking an awful chance, you know. My maid is liable to be home any time.
WARDEN: No she won't. Thursday's her day He takes off his raincoat, drops it on a chair.
KAREN: You think of everything, don't you, I try. In my position you have to.
WARDEN: I try. In my position you have to.
KAREN: ( goes to sink, picks up
WARDEN: Yes. But not important they get signed today. Tomorrow's okay. Karen suddenly, deliberately, rips the papers in half. Then she tears them into bits and throws them into the wastebasket. Warden appreciates the gesture, relaxes for the first time. He grins widely.
WARDEN: I got carbons of those back at the office. So it won't be much work to fix them up. Warden's control has begun to affect Karen's now. She is losing her poise.
KAREN: That's what I like about you, Sergeant. You have confidence. It's also what I dislike about you.
WARDEN: It's not confidence. It's honesty.
KAREN: Honesty? How did you acquire such an old-fashioned virtue?
WARDEN: I figgered out one day it was the shortest distance between two Well, he's clever as well as No it's just that I hate to see a beautiful woman goin all to He moves close to Karen, is on the verge of embracing her. Greatly tempted but greatly disturbed, she turns away. During next she pours herself a drink, the bottle shaking in her hand. Her tone is no longer brittle. It is bitter.
KAREN: Well, he's clever as well as No it's just that I hate to see a beautiful woman goin all to He moves close to Karen, is on the verge of embracing her. Greatly tempted but greatly disturbed, she turns away. During next she pours herself a drink, the bottle shaking in her hand. Her tone is no longer brittle. It is bitter.
WARDEN: No it's just that I hate to see a beautiful woman goin all to He moves close to Karen, is on the verge of embracing her. Greatly tempted but greatly disturbed, she turns away. During next she pours herself a drink, the bottle shaking in her hand. Her tone is no longer brittle. It is bitter.
KAREN: Waste, did you say? Now that's a subject I might tell you something about. There's we. And then there's waste. Positive and negative. The negative is sometimes more interesting. more evil. For example what about the house without a child? Tell me your thoughts, Sergeant.
WARDEN: You're going to cry.
KAREN: Not if I can help it.
WARDEN: Please don't cry. I can't stand to see somebody cry.
KAREN: What are you doing?
WARDEN: I'm leaving. Isn't that what you I don't know, Sergeant. To be honest, I don't know. They stare squarely at each other, both puzzled and a little afraid of their emotions. This is something neither had counted on.
KAREN: ( SLOWLY )
WARDEN: I know a beach near Diamond Head. Nobody ever goes there. The cars on the highway pass above and they never know it's there. You feel like you used to feel when you were a kid, hiding by yourself in a cave, watching the others hunting Karen turns, goes to the sink, puts the whisky bottle back in the cabinet.
KAREN: Maybe. why not?
WARDEN: How about Payday? Karen is trying hard to regain her glassy composure. She is unsmiling again.
KAREN: You don't have to spend money on me, Sergeant.
WARDEN: I just like to have some on me when I take out a woman. Can you get Warden grins as he puts on his raincoat. He goes to the door to the pantry, pauses there.
KAREN: Warden grins as he puts on his raincoat. He goes to the door to the pantry, pauses there.
WARDEN: I'll be in Kuhio Park. Say, nine o'clock. Payday. Karen leans back against the sink, watches him go out to the pantry. A moment later the sound of the door is heard as he leaves the house. She turns on the faucet, starts to rinse, the glasses they have used. Suddenly she turns the faucet on full force, watches it pound into the sink.
HOLMES: this man Prewitt's been here over a month now. I expected you mend have him around before this.
HENDERSON: We've been runnin him pretty hard. But he don't faze.
HOLMES: Maybe he needs a good dose of The The men react to the phrase; The Treatment is obviously reserved for very special, intractable cases. They consider it silently for a moment or two.
GALOVITCH: A double dose needs him to be The Treatment'll bring that puppy boy around.
THORNHILL: ( NODS )
HOLMES: You understand. I don't want any rough stuff.
EFFECT MONTAGE: The MONTAGE consists of a continuous stream of SUPERIMPOSURES depicting Prew's growing humiliation and exhaustion at the hands of the non-corns. Mingling with the background shots are VARIOUS ANGLES of CLOSEUPS of Prew. As the speed of the sequence increases, the stubborn smile on his face gives way to hurt, bitterness, anger. Over shots we occasionally hear stray shouts of the non-corns as they belabor Prew, but for the most part these and other dialogue are obliterated by MUSIC. The MONTAGE can be selected and created from the
FLASHES PREW: running around track, staggering despite a tremendous effort not to show his fatigue.
OBSTACLE COURSE: with the platoon going through, crouched low, live ammunition spattering around them. Prew, nearest camera, is lower than any man in the line. Over shot we hear a snatch of Wilson's Voice yelling at Prew to get lower.
FLASHES PREW: chinning himself on bar setup near obstacle course; he is near physical exhaustion.
MONTAGE ): coming HEAD-ON into camera as he bellies through the mud of the obstacle course. Snatch of mingled voices of non-coms yelling "Keep it downs", "Get that nose in the mud!", etc. Prew is utterly spent. His face drops into the mud, which splatters up, obscuring the screen.
TREADWELL: Ah+m suppose to be a automatic rifle man, not a spud-cutter.
STARK: ( DISGUSTEDLY )
TREADWELL: . they just give me my chance they'll see. He is surprised and pleased as he spears a potato this time. He raises it triumphantly like a caught fish.
PREW: No cook ever used that many panel Not even for an officers, banquet, ladies invited! Want me to grow couple more arms?! Stark, always alert to trouble, comes into shot. Willard sees him and speaks with whining dignity, for Stark's benefit.
WILLARD: All I ask is that you keep the pans washed up so they're clean when I need them. In order that I am allowed to cook the kind of food required for men who work hard all day and who need good nourishing food to get their nourishment.
STARK: Hole up 'at noise. This man's hot as a forty-five shootin downhill.
WILLARD: ( TERRIBLY INJURED )
STARK: I think you're a fat cook who can't As Willard retires, Maggio pours through from the mass hall. Screaming joyously, he shoves two empty platters in front of Comin through! Comin through! Me and my table waiters!
MAGGIO: Comin through! Comin through! Me and my table waiters!
MAGGIO: Hello, Prew! Bettern being threwn in jail, ain't it? Maggio passes camera, leaving the shot and disclosing Warden, who has entered from the mess hall in his wake. He carries a dish of eggs and sausage and is leaning against a pastry table. He is grinning lovingly toward Prew. He strolls over to Prew. He eats through following. The smile never leaves his face, broadens as the scene progresses.
WARDEN: You look awful tard, kid.
WARDEN'S VOICE: How do you like straight duty?. Life in a rifle compny, eh? Prew stops working, turns toward Warden.
PREW: What makes you think I mind it?
WARDEN: I didn't say you minded it, kid. I just said you looked tard. Drawn to a fine edge.
PREW: ( SMILES BACK )
WARDEN: Well, well, there's a man for you. I'll see if I can fix you up with a lot more since you like it so much. How you like the garbage detail?
PREW: Thanks, Top, I've had it. You give it to me Tuesday. Remember?
WARDEN: ( nods, as if just
REMEMBERING ): Well, then, how 'bout street cleaning detail?
PREW: That, too. Yesterday.
WARDEN: ( NODS )
WARDEN: Course if you was an ath-a-leet you wouldn't have to pull KP. Or any fatigue duty for that matter.
PREW: ( not smiling now ) If you think you can push me into fightin, Warden, you're wrong. Not you and Dynamite and The Treatment. I'm twice the man you are. If you dint have them stripes I'd take you out on the green and beat you to a ( smile growing bigger ) Don't let the stripes worry you, kid. I can always take my shirt off. Take it off right now.
WARDEN: ( smile growing bigger ) Don't let the stripes worry you, kid. I can always take my shirt off. Take it off right now.
PREW: You'd like that. You could get me a year in the Stockade for that one, couldn't you?
WARDEN: Don't throw it, Prewitt. It might break on my head. And that would cost you one thin dime next Payday. Warden deliberately turns his back and walks off. Prew looks after him. CAMERA MOVES IN to FEATURE his hand on the mug. He grasps it tighter, then lets it fall back into the soapy EXT. QUADRANGLE - DAY CLOSE SHOT PRIVATE FRIDAY CLARK He is blowing the bugle, sounding Pay Call. The rays of a blinding sun flash on its shiny surface.
MEDIUM SHOT: The bugle is heard over shot. A line of spruced-up men stretches through the mess hall. A blanket is spread over a table and behind it sits Holmes, flanked by Warden and Mazzioli. In front of Holmes is a pile of greenbacks and a cigar box filled with silver. He is paying out the man at the head of the line.
HOLMES: and just see you don't drink all this up in one place. The man smiles, appreciating the whimsy, salutes, moves off.
WARDEN: Prew, next in line, steps up to the table.
PREW: Robert E. Lee, RA 345071. He is crisp, sharp, expressionless. He holds out his hands for fingernail inspection.
HOLMES: Have you given any thought to the boxing team recently, Prewitt?
PREW: ( TONELESSLY )
HOLMES: What's this man's pay?
MAZZIOLI: ( reading from Payroll ) Private Prewitt, thirty dollars base pay. Deductions-laundry, insurance, PX checks. CAMERA MOVES IN to CLOSE SHOT of Holmes# hands laying money out on blanket.
MAZZIOLI'S VOICE: Total due twelve dollars thirty EXT. RIVER STREET, HONOLULU - NIGHT Payday night. A gay, noisy jamboree. Soldiers, mostly in civilian clothes, and uniformed sailors swarm down the street. Taxi drivers arguing with their fares as they pull up at bars. Filipinos padding in twos and threes.
FULL SHOT: Payday night. A gay, noisy jamboree. Soldiers, mostly in civilian clothes, and uniformed sailors swarm down the street. Taxi drivers arguing with their fares as they pull up at bars. Filipinos padding in twos and threes.
MAGGIO: Greetings, Mrs. Kipfer.
MRS. KIPPER: ( CORDIALLY )
MEDIUM SHOT: as Prew enters behind Mrs. Kipfer. The vestibule has an old South feeling of mustiness and respectability. Maggio is handing some bills to ANNETTE, a young, brash-looking girl, who sits behind a reception desk.
MAGGIO: Okay. so there y'are. Dues all paid up. Who ya got playin the piana a hippo?
MRS. KIPPER: Angelo, I don't believe I've met your friend. And you know how I hate to find you boys in this There. You see. Any time women see a soldier, think he's drunk. Why? You know why?
MAGGIO: There. You see. Any time women see a soldier, think he's drunk. Why? You know why?
PREW: Because he is.
MRS. KIPPER: Heavy drinking simply doesn't mix with the entertainment business. Every respectable place must consider its future.
PREW: Mrs. Kipfer, ma'am, I give you my solemn word your future will be safe with us.
MRS. KIPPER: Angelo is one of my favorites. Annette, dear, take care of this gentleman, will you, please? Mrs. Kipfer exits through the curtains. Annette takes a card from file, picks up pen.
ANNETTE: It'll be eight bucks, Babyface. Four for initiation fee, four for April dues.
PREW: Say, what do I get for it?
ANNETTE: ( rattling it off ) Members are entitled to all privileges of the club which includes dancing, snack bar, soft drink bar, and gentlemanly relaxation with the opposite gender so long as they are gentlemen and no hard liquor is permitted. ( takes a breath ) Got it? Prew grins, digs in his pocket for money.
PREW: I got it.
FULL SHOT: Several rooms branch off from this main one. There are about a dozen soldiers in civilian clothes and about a dozen hostesses. Several couples are dancing. The man at the piano is banging away, his music clashing cacophonically with a jukebox record from an adjoining room. CAMERA PANS as Mrs. Kipfer moves to and fro encouraging the men to enjoy themselves. The New Congress is a sort of primitive U.S.O., a place of well-worn merriment. It is not a house of prostitution but the girls look available for goosing. all but one we see at the end of the PAN. She sits alone on a couch. This is LORENE. There is an innocent, child-like look about her. Her hair is done demurely in a circular roll low on her neck. She is about twenty-four. She is reading a
ANNETTE: . Girls, here's some new poison. This is Billy and Jean and Nancy. The girls smile, ad-lib hellos. Prew is looking over the girls' heads at someone in rear of room out of shot.
ANNETTE: Don't tell me the Princess is your Annette takes his arm, moves him toward two quite good- looking girls talking to a soldier.
ANNETTE: Meet Suzanne and Roxanne. The girls greet him heartily but Prew is looking back over his shoulder at Lorene. Annette plucks his sleeve with haughty disdain.
ANNETTE: Much as I adore your company, you must allow me to tear myself away. I see a few friends at the door.
LORENE: Would you like to sit down?
PREW: ( SITTING )
LORENE: I'm Lorene.
PREW: ( enchanted by the name ) I haven't seen you in here before. Prew gestures with the membership card.
LORENE: I haven't seen you in here before. Prew gestures with the membership card.
PREW: I dint know about this place till now. A friend of mine brought me. We're stationed at Schofield.
LORENE: Oh. Somehow I didn't think you were a soldier.
PREW: ( bridles a bit ) Well, I am. And I'm in for the whole ride. I'm a thirty-year man.
LORENE: I suppose it's different when a fellow is going to make a career of There ain't anythin wrong with a soljer that ain't wrong with everyone else. Lorene smiles her fatal smile at Prew's seriousness.
PREW: There ain't anythin wrong with a soljer that ain't wrong with everyone else. Lorene smiles her fatal smile at Prew's seriousness.
LORENE: I like you just the same. I liked you the minute I saw Annette bringing you in.
PREW: ( MELTS )
FATSO'S VOICE: I'll play loud as I want, ya little A babble of voices drowns out Maggio's reply.
PREW: Friend of mine.
LORENE: ( SMILES SWEETLY )
MAGGIO: Mess with me, Fatstuff, I'll pull you apart!
FATSO: You're the kind of character I eat for breakfast, ya little Maggio breaks away from the girls and rushes toward Patso but Prew, stepping through the group, grabs him. Mrs. Kipfer bustles into the melee.
MRS. KIPFER: Now, you gentlemen know I will not have any of this sort of thing.
MAGGIO: Shut up, you Wop, he says to me!
FATSO: Little Mussolini here tryin to tell me what way to play the piano.
MAGGIO: Yeah, my ear drums fit to bust already with that noise!
MRS. KIPFER: You man can simply leave if you're not going to behave yourselves.
PREW: Come on, Angelo, come on
MAGGIO: Ony my friends can call me Wop
SOLDIER: ( has been watching ) You know who that guy is, buddy?
MAGGIO: Sure, I know who he is. Whadda I Who is he?
PREW: Who is he?
SOLDIER: Fatso Judson. Sergeant of the Guard at the Post Stockade.
SOLDIER: I'm tellin you, leave him be. Nets danger. I seen him nearly murder a guy once. He likes it.
SANDRA: All right, bully boy, now you won the war, let's dance.
MAGGIO: ( beginning to quiet down ) First I got to calm my nerves. Come on with me to a phone booth or some ( slaps himself on belly ) Where I will unveil this fifth of whisky I got under this loose flowing sports shirt. He and Sandra start off toward an adjoining room. Prew smiles, turns back toward Lorene. The smile fades.
BILL: you go along as fast as forty miles per through that surf and your balance has got to be letter Hey, I thought you were gonna wait.
PREW: Hey, I thought you were gonna wait.
LORENE: ( looks up, smiles ) Bill here was telling me about Hello, friend.
BILL: Hello, friend.
LORENE: ( PATS COUCH )
BILL: You know anything about No. Nothing. Not a thing.
PREW: No. Nothing. Not a thing.
BILL: You must be stationed inland then. I'm at DeRussey so I get lots of Yeah? But then we got mountains. You know anything about mountain A little bit. Are you a mountain No. You know anything about flying an airplane? Lorene is frowning now.
PREW: Yeah? But then we got mountains. You know anything about mountain A little bit. Are you a mountain No. You know anything about flying an airplane? Lorene is frowning now.
BILL: A little bit. Are you a mountain No. You know anything about flying an airplane? Lorene is frowning now.
PREW: No. You know anything about flying an airplane? Lorene is frowning now.
BILL: I've had a few lessons.
PREW: Well, I can't fly either. What do you know about deep sea diving?
LORENE: Do you want to move into another room, Bill?
BILL: Sure. The air in here seems to have gotten very smelly, hasn't it?
PREW: Yeah, I noticed that, too
BILL: Listen, fellow
LORENE: Shall we go, then?
KAREN: Why, hello. I didn't think you were Why not? I'm not late.
WARDEN: Why not? I'm not late.
KAREN: No, I guess you're not. But then I came a little early. I must have been overanxious. You weren't overanxious though, were you? You got here right on the dot.
WARDEN: Maybe I'd of been early too only I stopped to get a drink.
KAREN: You certainly chose a savory spot for our meeting.
WARDEN: Would you rather it'd been the cocktail lounge of the Royal?
KAREN: No, but I've had five chances to be picked up in the last few minutes.
WARDEN: ( sits beside her on the
BENCH ): That's par for the course around Well, I don't care for it. I never went in much for back-alley loving.
KAREN: Well, I don't care for it. I never went in much for back-alley loving.
WARDEN: Didn't you?
KAREN: You probably think I'm a tramp, don't you?
WARDEN: What makes you think I'd think Don't try to be gallant, Sergeant. If you think this is a mistake, come right out and say so.
KAREN: Don't try to be gallant, Sergeant. If you think this is a mistake, come right out and say so.
WARDEN: ( OUTRAGE )
KAREN: On the other hand, I've got a bathing suit under my dress.
WARDEN: Funny. I got one in a U-Drive-It parked around the corner. He takes her hand. They rise and walk away, backs to camera. They merge with the other couples in the little park.
PREW: How's the surfboard rider?
LORENE: That was a terrible way to have acted. What you did.
PREW: I was jealous.
LORENE: ( LAUGHS )
PREW: What do you dames want? To take the heart out of a man and tie it up in barbed wire?
LORENE: ( angry because she really
PREW: ( STANDS; URGENTLY )
LORENE: ( touched by his outburst ) That piano is about to drive me out of my mind. Let's go up to Mrs. Kipfer's suite and sit there. She lets us use it sometimes. for somebody special.
PREW: Are you mad?
LORENE: No, I'm not mad.
PREW: Because if you're still mad I'd just rather we called the whole thing off.
LORENE: ( takes his arm ) You certainly are a funny one. They walk away from camera, merging with the others in-the EXT. OCEAN AND BEACH - NIGHT FULL SHOT WAVE sweeping over camera, spray flying.
KAREN: I hope the ocean's ice cold. I hope I freeze in a solid chunk.
WARDEN: ( sudden, intense laugh ) Just so long's you melt afterwards.
KAREN: I love the way you laugh. He stands, moves to her. She laughs, turns and runs into the water. He runs after her.
LORENE: . I enlisted, too. I came out here on my own. To get away from my home town. In Oregon.
PREW: How come?
LORENE: I had a boy friend. I was a waitress. He was from the richest family in town. He just married the girl suitable for his position. After three years of going around with me.
PREW: They did. Ten thousand of them.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Lorene smiles.
LORENE: So I left and went to Seattle, as a waitress. And I met a girl just back from Hawaii. She said she'd made a lot of money working for Mrs. Kipfer. I caught the first boat. I've been here a year and two You like it much?
PREW: You like it much?
LORENE: Oh, I don't like it. But I don't mind it. Anyway, I won't be here No. Sure not. I mean, why should I have it all figured out. In another year I'll be back home, with a pile of bills big enough to choke a steer. And then I will be all set for life There is a sound at the door and they turn towards it.
PREW: No. Sure not. I mean, why should I have it all figured out. In another year I'll be back home, with a pile of bills big enough to choke a steer. And then I will be all set for life There is a sound at the door and they turn towards it.
LORENE: I have it all figured out. In another year I'll be back home, with a pile of bills big enough to choke a steer. And then I will be all set for life There is a sound at the door and they turn towards it.
MAGGIO: I dint hear no sounds of combat. So I figgered maybe you'd like a as Maggio comes into the room.
THREE SHOT: as Maggio comes into the room.
MAGGIO: Or otherwise old Sandra would of drank it all by herself. She's a fine girl. But she drinks like a There are glasses on a cupboard near the divan. Maggio sets three of them up, starts to pour whisky into them.
LORENE: No, thanks. I never drink much. Maggio stops short of the third glass. He takes a big gulp from the first.
LORENE: I think it' a a weakness.
MAGGIO: ( ANOTHER GULP )
LORENE: And I don't like weakness.
PREW: No. I don't like weakness. ( rises, takes a drink ) But I like to drink. He comes back to the divan.
LORENE: With you it's not a weakness. With you it's more like a virtue.
MAGGIO: That sounds like a very profound remark. Maybe that's why I don't get it.
LORENE: ( snuggles to Prew ) Well, it's so.
MAGGIO: Hey! What you gonna do, marry this guy? Way you grinnin at him you look like his wife!
PREW: Get outa here!
MAGGIO: ( picks up bottle ) Okay. Back to old long-legged Sandra. I love 'em tall. Acres and He goes out, closing door behind him. Suddenly the door opens again and Maggio pops back in. He puts the whisky bottle on a table next to the door.
MAGGIO: Enjoy yourself, pizon. You need it more than me. You be back with The Treatment tomorrow. He pops out again, the door closing after him. Prew's gaiety dims with the reference to The Treatment. Lorene sees this. Prew rises, goes to whisky bottle.
PREW: That was nice before. The way you snuggled up. In front of him.
LORENE: What's he mean, The Treatment? Prew doesn't answer. He pours a drink, gulps it.
LORENE: What did he mean?
PREW: Some of the guys puttin me over the jumps because I won't fight.
LORENE: On the boxing team. I don't want to fight! I don't want to talk about it! I don't want to think about it. And they make me think about it. Every day. He drops down on the divan beside her.
PREW: On the boxing team. I don't want to fight! I don't want to talk about it! I don't want to think about it. And they make me think about it. Every day. He drops down on the divan beside her.
PREW: It's a personal thing. His dread of telling the tale crumbles before his overwhelming need to tell it, to have someone understand.
PREW: Over at Port Shafter. I used to fight. Middleweight. I was pretty good. I used to work out with Dixie Wells. He was a light-heavy, but he was fast. And good. He loved boxing. He was gonna come out of the Army and go right into the upper brackets. People on the Outside had their eye on him. ( rises, paces ) Dixie didn't want, to use the six ounce gloves this time. And we neither of us wore headgear, anyway. I was set flat on my feet when I caught Dixie wide with this no more than ordinary solid cross. Dixie just happened to be standing solid, too.
CLOSEUP: as they kiss. The embrace is impassioned. When their lips separate, their arms remain around each other, holding tight to something they find is more than sex alone.
EXTREME CLOSEUP: as Karen and Warden kiss again, a tenderness in him not seen before and which he normally takes great pains to hide.
KAREN: Nobody ever kissed me that way. not really. They are both disquieted by the quality of their reactions to the kisses. The jump to banter is a quick defense.
WARDEN: CAMERA MOVES WITH them as they walk to the fire. Karen smiles at him.
KAREN: No. Nobody.
WARDEN: Not even one? Out of all the many men you've been kissed by?
KAREN: Well, that will take some figuring. How many men do you think there've CAMERA HOLDS as they sit, beside the fire. Karen wraps one of the blankets around her.
WARDEN: I wouldn't know. Can't you even make me a rough estimate?
KAREN: Not without an adding machine. Do you have your adding machine with No, I forgot to bring it.
WARDEN: No, I forgot to bring it.
KAREN: Then I guess you won't find out, will you?
WARDEN: Maybe I already know. The defense has given way and there is no mirth in the questions and answers now.
KAREN: What's the matter? What are you hinting at?
WARDEN: Why? Is there something to hint at?
KAREN: I don't know. Maybe a lot. Or maybe you just think there's a lot.
WARDEN: Maybe I do. Maybe there's been a long line of beach parties
KAREN: You must be crazy !
WARDEN: Am I? Listen, baby, maybe not here. But what about when you and Holmes were at Fort Bliss? Karen flings off the blankets, snatches her dress, stands up, raging. She speaks as she pulls the dress over her head, wriggles into it.
KAREN: I had to go and forget you were a man with the same rotten filthy mind the rest of them have. For a minute I had to convince myself you were different
WARDEN: Only it's true, ain't it?
KAREN: Yes, it's true! A part of it, some small part of whatever sewage you've been listening to. Some day perhaps you'll get all the story.
WARDEN: ( YAPS UP )
KAREN: You're getting to sound so much like a typical male. So you just sweat it out like a typical male. She starts toward the rocks at the end of the beach, walking fast, then almost running. Warden runs after her.
KAREN: All right. I've never told it to anyone before. But I think now is the time. I'll tell you the whole bloody messy thing. You can take it back to the barracks with you.
KAREN: I'd been married to Captain Dana E. Holmes two years. Only he was a First Lieutenant then. Back at Fort Bliss. We lived right on a little lake where we could fish and swim and be alone, our 'dream cottage'. I'm sure you must be able to picture it. It was off on a back road, four miles from the highway. Two miles from a neighbor and a telephone.. ( pauses, then rushes on ) I hadn't been married long when I knew my husband was stepping out on me. But you get used to that. Your mother tells you that it's life, that i t happens to a lot of women. Of course, she doesn't tell you until after it happens.
KAREN: Then, by that time, you're pregnant. And at least you've something else to hope for. I think I was almost happy that night the pains began. Even though they were weeks too early, a whole month too early. I remember Dana was putting on that dapper silk gabardine uniform he used to wear. He was going to an officer's 'seminar.' He was kidding me about false labor. I didn't think it was humorous. I told him to get home early, to bring the doctor with him. He smiled tenderly and told me about the psychic reactions of women to pregnancy. But never fear, he'd be back early. And maybe he would have. if the 'seminar' hadn't been with the hat-check girl in one of the night clubs.
WARDEN: TWO SHOT
TWO SHOT: He was only a little drunk when he came in. at five a.m. He looked alarmed when he saw me. I guess it was because of my screams. I was lying there on the floor, you see No, don't say anything. I'm not finished yet. Of course, the baby was dead. It was a boy. But they worked over me at the hospital and fixed me up fine. They even took my appendix out, too. They threw that in free. It was all fine.
KAREN: He was only a little drunk when he came in. at five a.m. He looked alarmed when he saw me. I guess it was because of my screams. I was lying there on the floor, you see No, don't say anything. I'm not finished yet. Of course, the baby was dead. It was a boy. But they worked over me at the hospital and fixed me up fine. They even took my appendix out, too. They threw that in free. It was all fine.
WARDEN: Listen. Listen. Please.
KAREN: And, of course, one more thing no more children. Do you know what that means? You're not a woman. You're not anything. You're a gutted shell. Sure, I went out with some of the men after that. A few months of it. I'd been made dirty and I wanted to be clean. You can see that, can't you?. Anyway, I got my revenge on Dana. I kept on living with him.
WARDEN: The hateful, miserable
KAREN: You hunt so hungrily for love. love, if you can find it, you think, might give things meaning Listens Listen to me
WARDEN: Listens Listen to me
KAREN: All right. I'm listening. Warden shakes his head, inarticulate with his rage and love. Karen moves closer to him.
KAREN: I know. Until I met you I didn't think it was possible, either.
TREADWELL: . Ah'm in the Army because Ah can live better on the Inside than on the Outside.
PREW: It ain't the reason I'm in.
MAGGIO: Now he's gonna give us that snow about bein a Thirty-Year Man again.
PREW: That's right. Look at Karelsen there. Only seven years more for rockin chair money. Karelsen hears his name, looks over.
KARELSEN: The Profession wears you down, though, young man. Down thin like a knife what's been honed and honed. All that good steel just rubbed He turns back sadly to study the figure of the girl.
TREADWELL: Man, that's blues! Where'd you drag that one up Prom?
ANDERSON: ( BASHFULLY )
PREW: They got Truckdrivers' Blues. Sharecroppers' Blues. Bricklayers' Blues. We oughta have a Soljers' Blues.
CLARK: Hey, look. I betcha we could make one out of what you just played. Do that again. Anderson repeats the melody.
ANDERSON: I could bring it down to a third line major ending. Regular twelve bars blues.
TREADWELL: I bet I got two hundred blues records back home.
PREW: I got it. We call it the `Re- enlistment Blues'! There is a chorus of approval.
PREW: Lookit, w e could start it with the guy getting discharged. ( reaches over to desk ) Hey, fella, can I use this? The soldier at the desk nods, and Prew takes his pencil and paper. He writes down the words of the song as they are composed during following.
PREW: How's this? 'Got paid out on Monday. Not a dog soljer no more. They gimme all that He stops, stuck. Anderson plays the melody and Prew sings the words to this point. Friday Clark chimes in suddenly.
CLARK: 'They gimme all that money. So much my pockets is sore.' They laugh. Anderson sings. Prew writes furiously.
ANDERSON: 'More dough than I can use. Re- enlistment Blues.'
ANGLE: Anderson plays a series of chords, then repeats the last two lines as the whole group joins in.
GROUP: 'More dough than I can use. Re- enlistment Blues.'
FULL SHOT: Raucous, hammering music sweeps away the melancholy blues. On the floor of the gym Dhom is punching the bag. In a corner of the raised ring Ike Galovitch is skipping rope. In the center of the ring Thornhill and Henderson are sparring. Holmes hovers beside them, issuing instructions in a strident voice.
GALOVITCH'S VOICE: Some day you get sense in your dumb head, Prewitt, you be up here instead down there! A fine spray of spit accompanies the words and showers over Prew but he keeps about his work.
WILSON: Still makin out you like it, huh?
GALOVITCH: Clean up dis mess, Prewitt! Prew gets to his feet. Galovitch resumes skipping rope.
GALOVITCH: And look a life, hurry it up. You on fatigue detail, not vacation. Prew climbs into the ring, gets on his knees, starts to swab up the canvas. He is nearly finished when Galovitch "accidentally" kicks over the second bucket.
GALOVITCH: Clean up, Prewitt! Prew suddenly stands, no longer able to contain his rage. He throws his sponge and scrubbing brush on the ring floor.
PREW: Clean it up yourself!
GALOVITCH: How? What!
PREW: You heard me rub your own nose in it a while!
GALOVITCH: Prew starts out of the ring. Holmes intercepts him.
HOLMES: What's the matter with you, Prewitt? You know better than to talk back to a non-commissioned Yes, sir. But I have never liked being spit at, sir. Even by a non- commissioned officer.
PREW: Yes, sir. But I have never liked being spit at, sir. Even by a non- commissioned officer.
HOLMES: I think you owe Sergeant Galovitch an apology.
PREW: ( RECKLESSLY )
HOLMES: ( FURIOUS )
GALOVITCH: Yes, Sirr. Prew climbs out of the ring, Galovitch following him.
LONG SHOT: Par below in the shot are Prew, hiking, and Galovitch, riding behind him on the bicycle. The dirt road is steep and the sun pours down, steaming hot.
GALOVITCH: Move along. You not half way yet. Three more miles to top. A jeep rounds a curve a couple of hundred yards above and moves down the road. It slows its speed and pulls up when it nears Prew and Galovitch.
MEDIUM SHOT: The jeep is driven by an enlisted man. Sitting next to him is MAJOR GENERAL SLATER. Galovitch hops off the bike and he and Prew snap to attention. General Slater leans out of the vehicle. He seems puzzled and interested by the odd sight of the two men.
GENERAL SLATER: At ease. Where're you men headed?
GALOVITCH: Top of pass, Sir. This man insubordinate. The Captain is teaching him lesson.
GENERAL SLATER: ( FROWNS )
GALOVITCH: Company G, 219th, Sir. The General, still frowning slightly, nods. He signals his driver to move on. The jeep starts down the road. Galovitch gets on his bicycle. Prew starts hiking again.
MEDIUM SHOT: Prew and Galovitch are standing in front of the Captain's desk. Prew is at attention, the heavy pack on his back; his face is drawn and tired; his clothes are plastered to him. He has regained his old expressionless look. Warden has swung his chair around and is surveying the scene. Holmes looks
HOLMES: I take it you're ready to apologize to Sergeant Galovitch now.
PREW: No, sir, I'm not. Holmes' face sets; he jerks his head toward the window.
HOLMES: Take him back up there again, Galovitch. He hasn't had enough ( nods unhappily, sick of
GALOVITCH: ( nods unhappily, sick of
BICYCLING ): Yes, air. Prew about-faces and goes out. Galovitch follows.
HOLMES: 1 know that kind of man! He's an againster. A bitter-ender. You can't be decent to a man like that. You have to tame him, like an Warden, I want you to prepare court martial papers. Insubordination and insolence to an officer.
WARDEN: Yes, sir. Warden swings around to his own desk. He thinks for several moments, tries to sound quite casual.
WARDEN: Too bad you got to lose a middleweight like that.
HOLMES: Why? Do you see any other way of breaking him?
WARDEN: I don't know. But even if he only gets three months, he'll still be in the Stockade when the boxing finals come up. He looks over at Holmes, sees him scowling, weakening.
WARDEN: How about just giving him a good stiff Compny punishment for now? Holmes ponders the situation unhappily, rubs his hand over his face,. shakes his head as if the whole thing is too much for him.
HOLMES: All right, all right. But throw the book at him.
WARDEN: ( pleased but impassive ) Yes, sir.
WARDEN: I'm sick of it! They ain't got no right to keep breakin it off in that kid! Sooner later Holmes is going to hound him right into the CAMERA PULLS BACK, REVEALING Karelsen across the room, undressing tiredly, achingly. Warden is sharp and blustering, using Karelsen as an escape valve. During following he goes to his footlocker, opens it, takes out whisky bottle, drinks.
WARDEN: I'm through! I'm turnin in my stripes. I mean it, Pete. I could transfer out tomorrow. In Grade get that? To half a dozen Compnys in this Regmint!
KARELSEN: Oh, sure. I could be Chief of Staff, too, except I can't stand leaving all my old buddies. Karelsen is naked now except for a bath towel knotted around his middle. He slips his feet into Japanese-style, wooden clogs, starts slowly for the door.
WARDEN: Where you going, Little Sir Echo?
KARELSEN: To take my stinkin shower, if the First Sergeant's got no objections. Where'd you think? To the movies in this towel?
WARDEN: ( GRINS )
KARELSEN: ( smiles, moves faster ) Okay, Okay.
STARK: . China's the place. Your money's worth ten, twelves times as much. I'm gunna ship over soon as my time's up in this pineapple Army.
KARELSEN: ( pinching beer off his
NOSE ): The Canal Zone for me. This girl down there. She was a planter's daughter, see. She lived a very sheltered life. A very moral young lady, Milt. I took her out to a high class dinner and then dancing. It was a great shock to her to learn about life. But she took it well. She got to like me very much after that.
WARDEN: The last time I heard it you told it different.
KARELSEN: Well, what did you expect? I was in a different mood, then.
MAZZIOLI: . it's in regulations. You've got a right to complain. You've got a right to take your case to the Inspector General. Any soldier has, even a plain dogface.
PREW: I know it. I'm not complainin to nobody. They ain't goin to get the satisfaction of seein me squirm. Clark begins to play the bugle softly along with the jukebox music, noodling an uninspired obligato.
MAGGIO: ( pointing to pictures ) . believe it nor not, this is one soljer who's got a family look, fifteen of 'em.
MAZZIOLI: Listen, Prew. I guess I ought not to tell you but . Warden hasn't had you on KP much lately, has he?
PREW: Only my reglar turn.
MAZZIOLI: Well I was working in the Orderly Room this afternoon and I heard the Captain telling Warden you're to pull KP every weekend from now on. You know what that means you can' t even go into
TOWN: Whadda they want? They done everything, now they look me in a box! What else they gonna try? Clark hits a sour note an the bugle.
PREW: Whadda they want? They done everything, now they look me in a box! What else they gonna try? Clark hits a sour note an the bugle.
PREW: ( SAVAGELY )
FATSO: Who's that? Who's that dame?
MAGGIO: ( IMPASSIVELY )
FATSO: Whoever! Say, she's a real good piece of whistle bait! I'd sure like to get my mitts around her. He laughs complacently at his own wit, tosses the picture on the table, starts to move on, Maggio rises, picks up the heavy wooden stool he's been sitting on and smashes it down on Fatso's head with all his strength,
ANOTHER ANGLE: as again the laughing and shouting in the room stops abruptly. Fatso reels a little with the terrible blow but does not go down.
FATSO: Why, holy I You hit met You hit You bet your life.
MAGGIO: ( CALMLY )
FATSO: ( still blinking from the
BLOW ): What?! But what for? That's no way to fight! ( reaches hand to head, brings away blood ) Why, you dirty yellow sneaking Wop! You yellow little Wop! If that's the way you want to play! With his last sentence, Fatso whips out a knife and snaps open the blade. The blade is at least five inches long. It glints evilly as he raises it. There is a concerted whisking intake of breath from the room. Murder is clear on Fat sots MEDIUM SHOT NEAR PREW'S TABLE ( EXCLUDING WARDEN ) Maggio, holding the stool high, backs up a few feet as Fatso advances toward him. Men sprawl away from them.
SOLDIER'S VOICE: Hey, it you want to fight, fight with fists. Take it outsides There is a murmur of agreement from the crowd. A couple of men are about to rise. Fatso whirls toward them.
FATSO: I'm gonna cut this little Wop's heart out. Anybody steps in here, I give it to him first.
MAGGIO: ( scared but brave; shouts ) I'm gunna de-brain ya, Fatso! One step closer an I'm gunna kill Fatso has his knife poised at his shoulder, ready to strike. Warden comes into shot suddenly. He brandishes a beer bottle wildly, looks like an avenging spirit of authority.
WARDEN: Nobody's gunna do nothin! Anybody's killin anybody around here, it'll be me! Warden snatches another beer bottle from a table, now has one in each hand. He steps between Fatso and Maggio.
FATSO: Look outs here, Warden. This a private affair.
WARDEN: No it ain't! This man's in my Compny an I'm responsible for him. And you ain't makin two weeks extra paper work for me by killin him. Nor him you. Put that knife down! He smashes the neck off one of the beer bottles, points the wagged edge at Fatso, roars:
WARDEN: Put it down! Fatso slowly lowers the knife to his waist, but keeps it pointed towards Maggio and Warden. Warden deliberately turns his back to Fatso, spits his words at Maggio.
WARDEN: Killer! You unweaned punk you want some killing, come on! ( whirls on Fatso ) Come on, barrelbelly. Ain't you Neither Fatso nor Maggio moves.
WARDEN: ( with mammoth contempt ) Killers! You'll get plenty of killing, all right. More than you got the stomach for. You'll be in a war one of these days. When you feel that lead from a sniper's rifle hit you between the eyes, come and tell me how you like it. ( turns to Maggio ) Now put down that chair. Maggio puts down the stool. Warden turns to Fatso.
WARDEN: Throw that knife on the floor. Fatso drops the knife. It clatters on the floor. There is another audible whoosh of breath from the room.
WARDEN: Almost scared there wasn't anybody going to stop you for a minute, weren't you? ( finally lowers his voice ) Is there any other little things you punks'd like me to take care of for you? He drops the beer bottles on a nearby table, strides to his own table. The room settles back, still hushed. Warden has broken the mood of certain death, but Fatso, still facing Maggio, bites off his words with sadistic, ominous venom.
FATSO: Tough monkey. Hard sister. Guys like you get to the Stockade sooner later. One day you walk in there I'll be waitin. I'll show you a coupla things. He walks away, drops into a stool at the counter.
MAGGIO: I made a mistake I guess, but I don't see how I could of done anything else, after that big stoop said a thing like that. Prew leans over and picks the knife off the floor.
PHEW: I'll tell you your mistake. You didn't hit him hard enough to put him out.
MAGGIO: I hit him hard as I could. His head must be solid ivory. In b.g. Warden puts down the beer bottle and stalks towards the door. Maggio and Prew turn to watch him pass.
MAGGIO: Anyway, I'm glad he stopped it. He's a good man, you know it? As if on impulse, Prew rises and follows Warden out.
MEDIUM SHOT: as Prew carves out. Choy's is on a wide road across from the entrance to the Post. Prew looks around for Warden, sees him off to one side. CAMERA MOVES WITH Prew as he goes over to CLOSE SHOT WARDEN leaning against the building, undergoing a delayed reaction to the fierce moment in Choy's. He is white-faced, sweating heavily. He looks as if he's going to be sick.
PREW: . That was a near thing.
WARDEN: . Yeah. Prew holds out Fatso's knife. Warden is beginning to get control of himself; he manages a weak smile.
WARDEN: You keep it, kid. Keep it for a Prew puts the knife in his pocket. They stare at one another a few moments, each inarticulate, each wanting to express some deep emotion of respect.
WARDEN: You ain't enjoying life much, are you, kid?
PREW: ( THIN SMILE )
WARDEN: Prew stops, turns back.
WARDEN: Could you stand a weekend pass? Prew stares at him for a second, incredulously, unable to find his voice.
PREW: I thought
WARDEN: You thought what, kid?
PREW: How about Dynamite?
WARDEN: Leave Dynamite to me. He signs most anything I put in front of him `thout readies it. Though Prew is overjoyed he is somehow unable to say "thanks"; Warden grins broadly at him.
WARDEN: I hear you gone dippy over some dame you met at the New Congress He slaps Prew on the shoulder roughly.
WARDEN: What'd you say her name was?
FREW: Pretty name.
WARDEN: Pretty name.
PREW: . Lorene. She throws a towel over his face. He chuckles under it.
LORENE: My name's Alma. The chuckle from under the towel dies.
LORENE: Alma Schmidt. There is a sound as of strangling from under the towel.
LORENE: Mrs. Kipfer picked Lorene out of a perfume ad. She thought it sounded Lorene whisks the towel away. Prew's face is comic in its surprise and chagrin.
"LORENE." ): A fashionable Waikiki night spot. An orchestra in b.g, is playing "Someone's Rocking My Dream Boat." Alma and Prew are seated at the bar. She is dressed modestly and becomingly, might well be taken as a society girl. Prew is wearing a civilian suit; he looks bound and choked in it.
PREW: She smiles ruefully, realizes her real name has rubbed off some of the enchantment.
PREW: No, honest, I like it. Alma's a swell name. It was great you gettin away today.
ALMA: I told Mrs. Kipfer I was sick. But I bet she doesn't believe it,
PREW: There's no tellin when I'll get into town next. The Warden gave me a break this time. But Holmes and those others, they got me on the edge. I just about went off the deep end the other day.
ALMA: You must hate the Army.
PREW: Hate the Army.?
ALMA: Sure. Look what it's doing to you.
PREW: It's not the Army that's doing it. It's Man. I love the Army.
ALMA: Love it? Well, it sure doesn't love you in return.
PREW: When you love something it doesn't mean they got to love you in Yes, but a person can stand just so much from something
ALMA: Yes, but a person can stand just so much from something
PREW: No! A man loves a thing, he's gotta be grateful.
THOUGHTS ): I left home when I was seventeen. Both my folks was dead, then. I bummed around. I got all sorts of jobs. I rode the rods.
PREW: The Army. I enlisted at Fort Myer and I learned how to box and I learned how to play a bugle. I never had much call for the boxing - - but if it weren't for the Army I'd never of learned how to play a A bugle? Prew nods. He takes the mouthpiece out of his pocket, shows it to her.
ALMA: A bugle? Prew nods. He takes the mouthpiece out of his pocket, shows it to her.
PREW: This is the mouthpiece I used to play a Taps at Arlington. Alma takes the mouthpiece, looks it over, seems unimpressed.
PREW: ( as if saying "I was
PREW: Look. Think. You ever think how strange a tree would look to one who had never lived upon the earth? Well, somehow that's how I feel when I play a bugle. There is a boisterous shouting nearby.
MAGGIO'S VOICE: Hello, citizen! I told ya I'd meet ya, dint I? They turn and ANGLE WIDENS to INCLUDE Maggio, who has just come up to the bar. He is in uniform. Prew is pleased to see him but also alarmed; there is something near-desperate under Maggio's drunkenness.
PREW: How'd you get a pass?
MAGGIO: I dint get no pass. I just took off. I meant to bring a girl with me but
PREW: You better get your tail back to the Post. Right away. Maggio shakes his head violently in the negative.
MAGGIO: I'm out for the night. I got a bellyfull. A nail, Prew. A stinkin nail. I'm thirsty for a nail. Prew gives him a cigarette. Maggio hops on an empty bar stool a few places removed from Prew and Alma.
MAGGIO: Climb up on my shoulders, Prew. You can see everythin from up here.
MAGGIO: I been in a crap game in the latrine. I win twenty bucks.
PREW: How much did you lose?
MAGGIO: Lose? Oh, lose. I lost twenty-seven That's why I ain't got no girl. A tray on the bar contains olives, nuts and pretzels. Maggio snatches up two olives, shakes them in his fist beside his COMIN OUT! THE TERROR OF GIMBEL'S BASEMENT! COMIN OUT! SEV-EN! SEV- EN! SEV-EN! ( rolls the olives out on
MAGGIO: COMIN OUT! THE TERROR OF GIMBEL'S BASEMENT! COMIN OUT! SEV-EN! SEV- EN! SEV-EN! ( rolls the olives out on
BAR ): Snake eyes.
ALMA: You like him, don't you?
PREW: ( NODS )
MAGGIO: The Royal Hawaiian's jist around the corner. That's where them movie stars stay. Rita Hayworth and Joan Blondell and Maureen O'Hara. You look like a movie star, Lorene. yes, you do. How long 'fore we get in the war, Prew?
PREW: I don't know. Maybe we won't get Tha's what you say. He jumps off the bar stool suddenly, tears off his tie.
MAGGIO: Tha's what you say. He jumps off the bar stool suddenly, tears off his tie.
MAGGIO: Hot in here. He throws tie on the bar, The Bartender starts to protest.
MAGGIO: Swimming It's a great night for ( kicks off shoes ) Goin swimmin with a movie star. He is unbuttoning his shirt as he abruptly dashes away, People around are laughing at him again.
ALMA: You better go look out for him, Prew glances at her gratefully, then slips off his stool. He picks up Maggio's tie and shoes and hurries out after him.
MEDIUM SHOT: Tall pale royal palms contrast with thick dark plants and bushes. An ornamental lamppost alongside a walking path a little distance away. Prew comes into shot cautiously, carrying Maggio's tie and shoes. He moves quickly, bends over. CAMERA PANS AND MOVES IN and we see it is Maggio's shirt and trousers which Prew has discovered on the ground. He looks at them wryly, picks them up, moves on.
PREW: ( CALLS SOFTLY )
PREW: Maggio, you nut. Get up. Wake up.
MAGGIO: I'm sorry, sir. I won't do it again. Just don't lock me up, sir. Honest, I won't.
PREW: Here's your clothes. He throws the clothes on Maggio.
MAGGIO: ( opens his eyes ) Well, give 'em back to the Indians. The Indians need clothes. All they wear is G strings.
PREW: Boy, are you drunk!
MAGGIO: . maybe a movie star comes outs the hotel right now and picks us up and takes us back to the States in her private plane. and installs us in her private swimming pool Prew pulls Maggio off the bench and starts to drag him across the path away from the light.
MAGGIO: ( YELLS )
PREW: You'll get worse than that scraped - - Listen! The ominous sound of leggins brushing each other is heard, not far away. Prew looks off.
PREW: Come on before you're in trouble
MAGGIO: Stop it!
PREW: Shut up!
MAGGIO: I'm sick of its Can't a man get drunk? Can't a man do nothin? Can't a man put his lousy hands in his lousy pockets on a lousy street? A man gotta be hounded every minute of his life? I ain't gain to take its I ain't no cowards I ain't yellows I ain't no bums I ain't no scum! MPs! MPs! COME AND GET US!
PREW: ( AGHAST )
MAGGIO: Get back! I'm handlin this! Take The first MP starts to intercept Prew. Maggio tackles him around the knees and brings him to the ground.
MAGGIO'S VOICE: This ain't your affair! Keep out of MEDIUM SHOT PREW IN F.G. MPs AND MAGGIO IN B.G. Prew sees the second MP raise his pistol, point it toward him. CAMERA PANS WITH him as he turns quickly and dives headlong into bushes nearby.
MAGGIO'S VOICE: ( screaming, crazed ) Come on. Is that the best you can do? I bet you eat Wheaties, don't you? Come on. You can't even knock me out no matter Maggio's voice stops suddenly. CAMERA MOVES TO CLOSEUP of Prew on the ground, his face contorted. The voices of the MPs are heard now, panting.
LEVA: Any word on Maggio's Court Martial?
MAZZIOLI: It's on right now. At Headquarters. Lava sits on the bench beside Prew, shakes his head.
LEVA: He'll get the Stockade sure. The others tense at the word "Stockade," glare at Leva as if he had no right to mention it. Their fear of the place, now that it is imminent even for another soldier, is shown on their faces. There is a long pause.
MAZZIOLI: Maybe he won't get it. All he did was get drunk and run wild. That's a soldier's nature. It's almost his sacred duty once in a while. There is another pause. Warden barks suddenly, fiercely, at What you hangin around here for?
WARDEN: What you hangin around here for?
LEVA: Can't a man rest himself for a min
WARDEN: What man? I can't stand to see people restin themselves. I'm eccentric. If you ain't got no work maybe I can scare you up some. Mumbling, Leva rises and goes out. Warden goes over to Prew.
WARDEN: Whyn't you go on over to the Day Room, shoot a little pool?
WARDEN: ( ON PHONE )
WARDEN: He got it. Six months.
MEDIUM SHOT: Prew and a group of G Company men, including Sergeants Dhom, Thornhill and Henderson, are on the steps and porch as a Reconnaissance car pulls up and halts.
MAGGIO: Hello, men! Who's got the beer?
DRIVER: Shut up!
MAGGIO: Okay, Brownie. Whatever you say.
ANOTHER ANGLE: as the Driver gets out of the car and goes to pick up Maggio's stacked barracks bag on the porch. Prew moves up close to Maggio.
PREW: I'm sorry, Angelo. It's my fault. I
SHOULDA: You crazy. You
MAGGIO: You crazy. You
PREW: I shoulda stopped you somehow
MAGGIO: It was all my party. Don't worry about it. ( pronounces "e" as in
"THE" ): Anyhow, I'm gunna e-scape. If Gimbel's basement couldn't hold me, neither can no lousy Stockade.
SECOND MP: You heard him say SHUT UP!
MAGGIO: ( smiles at the men ) I'm a prisoner. And prisoners ain't allowed to talk. They allowed to breathe though. If they good, that During last speech the Driver returns, dumps the barracks bag in the car, and gets in. The motor starts. The men shout good- CLOSE SHOT PREW heartsick as he looks at Maggio.
MEDIUM SHOT: as the Recon pulls out and Maggio's last hearty shout drifts EXT. STOCKADE GATE- DAY as the Reconnaissance car drives through the chain-mesh gate. In the distance is the Stockade, a building that looks something like a country schoolhouse. Music sweeps up as the gate clangs shut.
MAGGIO'S VOICE: . e-scape to Mexico and become a EXT. STOCKADE GATE- DAY as the Reconnaissance car drives through the chain-mesh gate. In the distance is the Stockade, a building that looks something like a country schoolhouse. Music sweeps up as the gate clangs shut.
SHOT: as the Reconnaissance car drives through the chain-mesh gate. In the distance is the Stockade, a building that looks something like a country schoolhouse. Music sweeps up as the gate clangs shut.
LONG SHOT: Maggio walking across the yard flanked by the tall MPs. He looks around as if surveying the chances of escape. Music EXT. STOCKADE BUILDING - DAY as the MPs march Maggio up to a door and gesture him to enter alone. He goes in.
MEDIUM SHOT: as the MPs march Maggio up to a door and gesture him to enter alone. He goes in.
MEDIUM SHOT: CAMERA SHOOTS from behind a man seated at a desk. Prominent in shot is a wicked-looking chopped-off hoe handle lying on the desk. Maggio enters, recognizes the man. He walks, up to the desk, his face set in defiance. Music is rising in a fearful crescendo. CAMERA PANS just enough to REVEAL desk sign reading: "SERGEANT OF THE GUARD." The man stands up and the music stops abruptly.
ANOTHER ANGLE: REVEALING Fatso Judson as the man, on his face the same murderous expression as at Choy's. He cracks his fingers.
FATSO: Tough monkey.
FATSO: Hard sister.
FIRE: FULL SHOT LUAU Shot covers the continuation of all the above activity. This is a native luau - definitely not for tourists. Shot includes long ditches, heated by red-hot stones and lined with layers of banana leaves, containing pig, chicken, rock crabs, fish. Pots of native stew. Bowls of exotic fruit. Peels of raw cane. Working over the food are the natives, many of the men stripped to the waist, the women arrayed in colorful Hawaiian costumes.
KAREN: You just love to shock people, don't you?! Where on earth did you learn to dance like that?
WARDEN: ( PANTING HAPPILY )
PREW: If I dint get to see you once in a while The Treatment would've cracked me long ago. Alma, fairly winded from the climb, smiles but doesn't We could have taken a cab. Except I ain't got cab fare.
PREW: We could have taken a cab. Except I ain't got cab fare.
ALMA: It's just around the bend. CAMERA HOLDS as they walk on around a bend in the road.
MEDIUM SHOT: The small house is perched precariously on the very edge of the cliff. Alma and Prew come around the bend, come up to the door, Prew marvelling at the house.
ALMA: This other girl and I were lucky to rent it.
ALMA: I'll get an extra one made for you. Prew swings open the door and they go in.
FULL SHOT: Prew stops on the threshold, stares at the room in happy amazement. It is large, smartly furnished. In the rear, glass doors lead to a porch. One of the panelled walls is filled with bookshelves, floor to ceiling. The bookshelves are filled with books. A hearty feminine voice calls "Hi!" from the kitchen, and as Prew and Alma come into the room, GORGETTE enters from the kitchen. She is a very tall, very gay, good-looking girl.
ALMA: This is Gorgette, my roommate. Gorgette, this is Prew. I told you about him.
GORGETTE: Don't mind me. I'm going out in a little while. Prew grins, can't keep his eyes off the astonishing books. Gorgette follows his glance.
GORGETTE: I belong to the Book of the Month Club. I always take every book. That way I get all the dividends. She giggles and goes off to the bedroom.
PREW: She'll be great for Maggio when he gets out of the Stockade. He'll be crazy about her because she's so Alma smiles, presses him into a chair.
ALMA: Now you just get comfortable and I'll make you a Martini and see what's to cook for dinner. She starts oft to kitchen.
PREW: She turns.
PREW: This is just like bein married, ain't it?
ALMA: ( over her shoulder as she exits to kitchen ) It's better.
FULL SHOT: SHOOTING through smoke rising from one of the trench-ovens. As it clears we see the enormous Hawaiian woman and one or two others cleaning up and putting out the remnants of the fires. The merrymakers and dancers have gone; the luau is over. In b.g., quite alone, are Warden and Karen, sitting on
KAREN: What did she say?
WARDEN: She said it's over time to go
HOME: Home. A beach, a car, a park. Warden puts his arm around her tenderly.
KAREN: Home. A beach, a car, a park. Warden puts his arm around her tenderly.
WARDEN: It'll work out.
KAREN: It can't go on like this much longer, Milt.
WARDEN: I know. He rises, paces a moment.
WARDEN: If there were only a way! Your lovin husband'd probly give you the divorce. But even if he didn't know what for, he'd never let me ( bucking up courage;
KAREN: ( bucking up courage;
QUIETLY ): There is a way. I've been thinking about it. Warden looks at her apprehensively.
KAREN: You've got to become an officer.
WARDEN: You're eligible for the extension course that came in with the draft. When you get your commission they'd ship you back to the States new officers aren't kept at posts where they've been enlisted men. Then
KAREN: You're eligible for the extension course that came in with the draft. When you get your commission they'd ship you back to the States new officers aren't kept at posts where they've been enlisted men. Then
WARDEN: You sure made a thorough study of Then I could divorce Dana and follow you and marry you.
KAREN: Then I could divorce Dana and follow you and marry you.
WARDEN: An officer! I've always hated That's a fine, intelligent point of view. Suppose I said I've always hated Sergeants. That would make a lot of sense, wouldn't it?
KAREN: That's a fine, intelligent point of view. Suppose I said I've always hated Sergeants. That would make a lot of sense, wouldn't it?
WARDEN: Okay, suppose I did it. And don't think it's a cinch the exams are tough. Then you'd be getting your divorce here while I'm in the States. We'd be apart maybe six months! We'll probly be in the war by then
TWO SHOT: You can't be certain of that
KAREN: You can't be certain of that
WARDEN: ( SNORTS )
KAREN: ( FLARING )
WARDEN: You're crazy! I wish I wasn't in love with you. Maybe could enjoy life again.
KAREN: I don't know what's happened to you you were honest at first
WARDEN: At first! You were tough and solid as a rock and now you're a whining crybaby He stops abruptly.
KAREN: And so they were married and lived unhappily ever after. They are silent for several moments.
WARDEN: I've never been so miserable in my life as I have since I met you.
KAREN: Neither have I.
WARDEN: ( CHEERLESSLY )
KAREN: ( CHEERLESSLY )
WARDEN: I'll probably make the lousiest officer they ever saw in this Army. A happy smile creeps over Karen's face. Despite himself, he begins to smile also.
KAREN: ( FERVENTLY )
MEDIUM SHOT: The porch is at the rear of the house, leading off from the living room. It is on the very edge of the cliff. Prew and Alma are dancing to the music of a portable victrola. It is playing "Why Don't We Do This More Often?" A table still contains the dinner plates. Prew's expression holds the wonder of a child at a magic show. He misses a step,
PREW: I never caught on to dancing much.
ALMA: You're a very good dancer. The record ends and Alma goes to change it. CAMERA FOLLOWS Prew to the edge of the porch as he looks out over the view.
PREW: I been wanting to tell you a long time now
ALMA: That's nice. Because I love you, She puts on a record "It All Comes Back To Me Now." It plays throughout the sequence.
TWO SHOT: as Alma comes over to Prew.
PREW: I mean it. I need you.
ALMA: ( AS BEFORE )
PREW: ( RECKLESSLY )
ALMA: You're a funny one, little Prew Yeah. Must be the altitude.
PREW: ( HURT )
ALMA: A very funny one that I cannot figure out.
PREW: Why's it funny if a guy wants to marry you?
ALMA: Because I'm a girl you met at the New Congress Club! And that's about two steps up from the pavement.
PREW: Okay I'm a private no class dogface soljer. And the way most civilians look at it, that's two steps up from no thin. There is a silence. Alma is honestly distraught.
ALMA: Oh, Prew, Prew, I thought we were happy: Why do you want to spoil Lissen, I ain't think in of now. But I got a plan cookin in my head. You want to go back to the States in a year. Well, you could stretch it some, make it two years. And I could swing a Sergeant's stripes If I were a non-com the Army'd let me pick my duty when I re-enlist. ( lost in the picture of
PREW: Lissen, I ain't think in of now. But I got a plan cookin in my head. You want to go back to the States in a year. Well, you could stretch it some, make it two years. And I could swing a Sergeant's stripes If I were a non-com the Army'd let me pick my duty when I re-enlist. ( lost in the picture of
IT ): And there's some posts back in the States like Jefferson Barracks The married noncoms rate solid brick houses. with lawns with new- cut grass and walks with big old oak trees.
ALMA: Now I know you've lost your mind! How do you expect to become a Sergeant under this Captain Holmes of yours? It's all you can do to keep out of the Stockade!
PREW: I could fight.
TWO SHOT: It I go out for boxin he'd send me to non-com school. The Regimental Championship is next month. I bet I could win the middleweight even without training. I used to be pretty good I could do it. Alma is deeply moved. She speaks gravely, sincerely, not at all immodestly.
PREW: It I go out for boxin he'd send me to non-com school. The Regimental Championship is next month. I bet I could win the middleweight even without training. I used to be pretty good I could do it. Alma is deeply moved. She speaks gravely, sincerely, not at all immodestly.
ALMA: No. I don't think you should give in to The Treatment. even to marry me.
PREW: This'd be worth it.
ALMA: ( ALMOST DESPERATELY )
PREW: Okay. But that ain't the real All right. It's not.
ALMA: All right. It's not.
PREW: What's the real reason you won't marry me?
ALMA: I won't marry you because I don't want to be the wife of a soldier.
PREW: Well, that's the top I could ever do for you
ALMA: Because nobody's going to stop me from my plan. Nobody. Nothing. Because want to be proper.
PREW: ( IMPASSIONED )
ALMA: ( IMPASSIONED )
PREW: ( bitterly disappointed but
ADMIRING ): ( MORE ) PREW( CONT'D )
ALMA: But I do mean it when I say I need you. Because I'm lonely. Sometimes I'm dreadfully lonely. You think I'm lying, don't you?
PREW: No. Nobody ever lies about being Alma puts the same record on again. Prew looks out over the beautiful view.
HOLMES: I've known about it for a long time! I've sensed it. And I'm not going to ignore it any longer! I want to know where you met him and just who he is.
KAREN: I'm afraid I'm not going to tell You can't keep a thing like this
HOLMES: You can't keep a thing like this
HIDDEN&: I'm not going to hide anything. I'm just not going to tell you.
KAREN: I'm not going to hide anything. I'm just not going to tell you.
HOLMES: One thing I know. I know it's a civilian. You'd be too discreet to pick an Army man.
KAREN: I don't think it's any of your business who he is.
HOLMES: It is my business! I'm your husband! What do you think a scandal would do to my chances for a promotion? So if you're thinking of a divorce, you can forget it! Karen stiffens. She struggles to maintain her self- possession. She manages it, keeps outwardly calm through the Now how does it feel to know you'll have to live with a horror like me the rest of your life?
HOLMES: Now how does it feel to know you'll have to live with a horror like me the rest of your life?
KAREN: Not very nice. But then there's the compensation of knowing you'll have to live with me the rest of your Her attitude makes Holmes progressively sorrier for himself. CAMERA MOVES with him as during following he rises, goes to stove, pours himself another cup of coffee. He spills a little and the liquid sizzles on the burner.
HOLMES: You don't know how a man feels about a thing like this. It breaks a man all up inside.
KAREN: ( DRYLY )
HOLMES: It's it's just not the same. CAMERA MOVES with him as he returns to the table, decides to try another tack.
HOLMES: Why do you think I've done all I Done all what?
KAREN: Done all what?
HOLMES: Tried to be a Company Commander when I hate it, worked my fool head off with this miserable boxing squad, tagged after the General whenever I could.
KAREN: I don't know. Why?
HOLMES: Why, for you and for me. For our home, that's why.
KAREN: ( DRYLY )
KAREN: It's a lovely day out. I think I'll go for a walk. Holmes catches her wrist, stops her.
HOLDS: I'm willing to forgive you. Tell me who he is. Make a clean breast of it. And I'll forgive you.
KAREN: I wonder which is hurt more your pride or your curiosity? She disengages her wrist.
KAREN: ( COOLLY )
KAREN: ( MATERNALLY )
PREW: You just get out of the Stockade?
NAIR: ( NODS )
PREW: You see Maggio? Nair nods, tells his tale in half-humorous, half-reverent Fatso's workin him over with a hoe handle. Places where it won't show mostly. You know, the back and the chest. The kidneys. Once in a while in the face. Know what Maggio does when that happens? Spits in Fatso's Oh, he's a hot one. Ain't he a hot He's a good boy.
NAIR: Fatso's workin him over with a hoe handle. Places where it won't show mostly. You know, the back and the chest. The kidneys. Once in a while in the face. Know what Maggio does when that happens? Spits in Fatso's Oh, he's a hot one. Ain't he a hot He's a good boy.
PREW: He's a good boy.
NAIR: Course, he throws up a little blood now and then. And he passes out a lot. But Fatso sure ain't reportin none of that. So there's no way they goin to find out.
PREW: Why don't he go to the C.O.?
NAIR: We tried to get him to. But he won't peep. He says he got a lot more scalp to lose first. That boy is about the hardest artery in the ( with great sentiment ) But he's got a heart just like a great big baby. Prew's face has been growing in fury. He pulls up a clump of sod, throws it down with all his might.
PREW: You think he's gonna be all right?
NAIR: Your guess is worth mine, sam. Maybe he's crackin a little at that cause after Fatso put him in the Hole that's what they call solitary a couple times he began talkin about how he's gonna e- scape. He said to tell you he'll look you up one of these nights. A shadow falls across the grass in front of Prew.
GALOVITCH: Still on knees, eh, Prewitt? Well, boxing finals next month. December f if teen. You s till got time help us make champions.
GALOVITCH'S VOICE: Are proud dis Compny to be or not? Bites de hand dat feeds it der shoot dogs for. Infortunately, ony dogs day are allowed to shoot, not MEDIUM SHOT GROUP The other men have stopped weeding, are looking over at Prew and Galovitch. Thornhill, in b.g., puts down the comic book and comes over to them during following.
PREW: Get outa my way, Ike. I ain't gonna move around you again.
GALOVITCH: You need better lesson than up to now. Maybe I give to you myself. Maybe right now. He steps on Prew's hand. As Prew jerks away from the heavy shoe Galovitch hauls him up by his fatigue shirt. Thornhill steps between them.
THORNHILL: ( TO GALOVITCH )
DETAIL: Prew shoves Thornhill aside, cold decision in his eyes. He starts unbuttoning his shirt.
PREW: ( TO GALOVITCH )
THORNHILL: Ey, wait a minute, you guys ! Prew is barely able to get out of his shirt before Galovitch charges him.
NAIR: The head, Prew! Hit him in the The other men around shout similar advice.
CLOSEUP PREW: flinching without being hit. He seems mesmerized by the other's eyes.
SPECTATOR: I don't get it Why don't Prew go for the head?
DHOM: He blinded a guy once. Must be scairt of the same thing.
HOLMES' VOICE: I'll be glad to recommend you, Warden. You've got service, experience, grade. You'll make an excellent officer.
WARDEN: ( AFTER HESITATING )
HOLMES: At ease, Sergeant. What's the They fightin on the green, sir! Galovitch and Prewitt.
THORNHILL: They fightin on the green, sir! Galovitch and Prewitt.
THORNHILL: Ike looks like `e goin to murder him, sir. A pleased look crosses Holmes' face. Warden jumps up, starts for door. Holmes catches his arm.
HOLMES: There's no rush. I'll take care of Holmes goes out. Thornhill follows, turns at the door.
THORNHILL: Ain't you want to see it, First?
WARDEN: ( SHOUTS SUDDENLY )
ANOTHER ANGLE: FEATURING the "ath-a-loots," including Dhom, Wilson and Henderson. They are watching quietly, nodding with approval as Prew feints, then darts several punches into Galovitch's ribs, It almost seems as if they are admiring Prew's courage, inwardly rooting for him. Holmes enters the group, Thornhill tagging after him. Holmes stops and watches the fight. There is a look of satisfaction on his face.
ANOTHER ANGLE: near rear of crowd. An officer, walking across the lawn, is attracted by the noise. He steps into the crowd. This is COLONEL WILLIAMS. He wears the insignia of the Inspector General's Department. He watches the fight, is about to step through to break it up when he sees Holmes. He stops, watches Holmes' reactions.
STARK: This ain't no rassle, Ike. You got to fight this man fair. Approving shouts from the crowd. Stark steps back. Ike waits for Prew to get up.
CLOSEUP PREW: His eyes narrow, harden as if his inner struggle has been MEDIUM SHOT PREW AND GALOVITCH Prew gets to his feet. As Galovitch comes to him, Prew feints for the stomach, then throws a hard right to Galovitch's face. It hits him flush on the nose. Blood spurts. The crowd Galovitch, surprised and hurt, throws up his hands. Prew drives both fists to his solar plexus. Galovitch drops his guard. Prew smashes him in the face and Adam's apple. Galovitch falls to his knees, hawking and choking.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Galovitch, surprised and hurt, throws up his hands. Prew drives both fists to his solar plexus. Galovitch drops his guard. Prew smashes him in the face and Adam's apple. Galovitch falls to his knees, hawking and choking.
MEDIUM SHOT: Holmes, seeing Prew is now clearly in command, steps out of the crowd and up to the two fighters.
HOLMES: ( SEVERELY )
HOLMES: What started this?
GALOVITCH: ( PUFFING )
HOLMES: You won't disobey any more orders in my Company, Prewitt. Warden saved you from a court martial once but he won't this time Anderson steps into the circle.
ANDERSON: Sir I'm sorry, sir but Private Prewitt's not to blame for this. Sergeant Galovitch started it. Holmes reacts, momentarily at a loss. He turns to Thornhill.
HOLMES: ( MEANINGFULLY )
THORNHILL: `e's right, sir. ( points to Galovitch ) `e begun it. Prewitt done nothin. From the crowd step Sergeants Dhom, Wilson and Henderson. They face Holmes and Galovitch implacably.
HENDERSON: No, sir, this wasn't Prewitt's That's right, sir. Everybody knows Galovitch started it. Wilson nods. There is a murmur of agreement from the crowd. Holmes looks at his fighters, rocked by this betrayal. They stare back at him.
DHOM: That's right, sir. Everybody knows Galovitch started it. Wilson nods. There is a murmur of agreement from the crowd. Holmes looks at his fighters, rocked by this betrayal. They stare back at him.
MEDIUM SHOT: Holmes pulls himself together, turns to the crowd.
HOLMES: That's all. Break it off. Let's get back to our jobs. ( to Prew and Galovitch;
WEAKLY ): I'm giving you two a break. I'll ignore this. He walks off. He does not see Colonel Williams. Galovitch moves off toward the barracks. Wilson, Henderson and Thornhill remain grouped around Prew.
PREW: You guys figure this means I'm steppin into a ring, you're wrong.
EMERSON: It's your show, kid. Run it the way you want.
WILSON: You better put same iodine on them Yeah. An come over to Choy's tonight. We buy you a beer. The non-coms walk off, Prew stares after them.
DHOM: Yeah. An come over to Choy's tonight. We buy you a beer. The non-coms walk off, Prew stares after them.
CLARK: Some day I'm goin back to Scranton and play it for my folks. And tell em it wan composed in the Hawaiian Islands! Clear across the Pacific ( finishes long swig of
PREW: ( finishes long swig of
BEER ): Hey, Friday.
CLARK: Why you called Friday?
PREW: Why you called Friday?
CLARK: Don't know. I was borned on ( plucks guitar, sings ) Went back around on Friday Asked for a free glass of beer. The three laugh, sing in unison.
CHOATE: Top, you sure plastered.
WARDEN: ( MUSTERING DIGNITY )
ANDERSON: Where you go in?
PREW: Back to Choy's. Get nother drink. The guitars and singing continues in b.g. through following. CAMERA PANS with Prew as he weaves to the road.
WARDEN'S VOICE: ( BOOMS )
WARDEN'S VOICE: Who goes there?
PREW: A friend.
WARDEN'S VOICE: Advance, friend, and be reconized. Prew moves closer, CAMERA WITH him, until he recognizes ( roaring, laughing ) Quiet! At ease! Fall out! Right dress! `bout face! Hit the track! Garbage Detail! Latrine Detail! Dis a drill, not picnic! Hello, kid. Whatever you doin out all by I'm goin to get a drink.
WARDEN: ( roaring, laughing ) Quiet! At ease! Fall out! Right dress! `bout face! Hit the track! Garbage Detail! Latrine Detail! Dis a drill, not picnic! Hello, kid. Whatever you doin out all by I'm goin to get a drink.
PREW: I'm goin to get a drink.
WARDEN: Siddown. I got a bottle. He pulls a bottle of whisky from his field jacket, holds it up to Prew. Prew takes the bottle and drinks. Then he sits down in the road as matter-of-factly as did Warden. He gives the bottle back to Warden.
WARDEN: I hand it to you, kid. They called off The Treatment this afternoon. When you beat up Ike. I never heard of no soljer before ever lickin The ( drinks; then holds out
BOTTLE ): Here, old buddy. Have a lil drink. Prew drinks.
WARDEN: This is a terrible crummy life, you know it?
PREW: Miserble. Perfeckly miserble.
WARDEN: What if a truck or somethin was to come along and run over us?
PREW: Awful. Awful. We'd be dead, wouldn't we?
WARDEN: ( NODS VEHEMENTLY )
PREW: What about you? You got more to live for than me. You got to take care of your Compny.
WARDEN: I'm old. Don't matter if I die. But your life's ahead of you. You get No, sir. Never deserted a friend in need. I'll stay to the bitter end.
PREW: No, sir. Never deserted a friend in need. I'll stay to the bitter end.
WARDEN: ( shakes head stubbornly ) We'll stay together. They square their shoulders heroically.
WARDEN: ( as if to an invisible
PREW: Each takes a drink.
WARDEN: Prew, I got the biggest troubles in the whole world.
PREW: The whole world?
WARDEN: ( NODS )
WARDEN: You'll unerstan, then. This girl, see, she wants me to become.
PREW: Become what?
WARDEN: ( after long hesitation ) An officer. Can you see me as an Sure I can see it. You'd make a good officer.
PREW: Sure I can see it. You'd make a good officer.
WARDEN: You both can see more'n I can. You know what, Prew? I'm scared become an officer.
PREW: You ain't scared of nothin, Warden.
WARDEN: Yes, I am. I tell myself diffrnt but it's a fack. Where'd I be as an officer? How could I handle him? That's the one thing I'm scared of. be an officer in the U.S. Army.
PREW: A man should be what he can do. Warden nods solemnly as if Prew has uttered a great truth. They pass the bottle once more.
WARDEN: How's your girl? Wha'st that name Oh, yeah, I remember. Lorene. Beautiful name.
PREW: ( HESITATES )
WARDEN: Oh, yeah, I remember. Lorene. Beautiful name.
ANOTHER ANGLE: The headlights of a jeep descend upon Warden and Prew. Then the vehicle skids into the shot with a screeching of brakes, comes to a halt directly in front of the men. Warden and Prew look at the car calmly, don't move. The headlights are blazing on them. Stark hops out from the driver's seat,
STARK: Whatsa matter with you, you crazy, dumb screwballs?! You tryin to get What you doin with that jeep, Sergeant Stark?
WARDEN: What you doin with that jeep, Sergeant Stark?
STARK: I borrowed it. I'm goin to town. What you doin in the middle of the The music of the guitars has stopped. There is a strange whine now, far in the distance, not identifiable. It grows during following.
WARDEN: My friend Prew and I sittin here discussin the weather.
STARK: Your friend, huh?
PREW: You beard me. I said my buddy Warden. My good friend Warden that you better not run over is what I MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT WARDEN Don't you know you got to look out for this man. Get him off the road before you run him over. He's the best stinkin soljer in the Compny.
WARDEN: ( ASSUMING ANGER )
STARK: You both must be plumb nuts.
PREW: You heard me. Get this man to some safety. Why, he's the best stinkin soljer in the Compny.
STARK: I guess I'm the one who's nuts.
MAGGIO: . figgered you might be at The men gape at Maggio, unable to accept the shock of his appearance. Then Prew and Warden jump up and catch him as he is about to fall. The drunkenness drains out of them. Stark watches in bewilderment.
GROUP SHOT: The men gape at Maggio, unable to accept the shock of his appearance. Then Prew and Warden jump up and catch him as he is about to fall. The drunkenness drains out of them. Stark watches in bewilderment.
MAGGIO: ( spewing words out ) . done it like I said. e- scape. e-scape like I figgered. Under a tarp inna back of a truck from the Motor Pool they rode me right out just like I figgered like I said. Ony the tailgate came down 'bout a mile back. an I fell inns road.
PREW: Warden steps back as Prew holds Maggio. During following Anderson and Clark come over, watch pop-eyed.
MAGGIO: Fatso. Fatso done it to me. yestiday he did it for keeps. He likes to whack me in the gut with a hoe handle an then he asks `that hurt?' and then I spit at him. Ony yestiday he done it ten times runnin an somethin bust. you know, like they was a fish swiminin aroun inside you.
PREW: ( TO OTHERS )
MAGGIO: Prew. they gonna send you to the No, Angelo
PREW: No, Angelo
MAGGIO: ( PLEADING )
GROUP SHOT: Warden bends over Maggio. The others watch, scared.
GROUP SHOT: Warden looks up.
WARDEN: He's dead.
CLARK: Dead? But he was here just a minute Prew bends over, picks up Maggio, holds him in his arms gently, unbelieving.
STARK: Fatso's lucky. They'll figure he got killed fallin out of that He ain't dead. CAMERA MOVES AHEAD of Prew as he carries Maggio to the jeep, the others following. He lifts Maggio into the rear of,the jeep. Warden puts his hand on Prew's arm.
PREW: He ain't dead. CAMERA MOVES AHEAD of Prew as he carries Maggio to the jeep, the others following. He lifts Maggio into the rear of,the jeep. Warden puts his hand on Prew's arm.
WARDEN: He's dead, Prew. Prew stares at Maggio, lying in the jeep. Stark gets into the front of the jeep.
STARK: I'll take him, Prew. He starts the motor. Prew leans over, moves Maggio's body a See his head don't bump. The jeep drives off.
PREW: ( TO STARK )
LONG SHOT: Framed beautifully in the moonlight, the Quadrangle and Barracks area look like a college campus. Silence. No LONG SHOT ANOTHER ANGLE A figure can be seen far in b.g, at the Bugler's post beside the megaphone. Another figure stands near him. The silence continues, then is broken by the sound of the bugle beginning
FULL SHOT: Most of the men turn in their beds toward the sound of the bugle. Some prop up on their elbows.
TREADWELL: ( a reverent whisper ) I bet you it's Prewitt.
MEDIUM SHOT: Three men come out of the barracks, lean over the porch rail, listening. Their faces are thoughtful, sad.
MEDIUM SHOT: There are eight or nine men here now, listening.
FULL SHOT: More men are propped on their elbows, their heads turned toward the Bugler. The dim figure of Treadwell can be seen, at a window now.
TREADWELL: ( almost inaudible whisper ) . I told you it was Prewitt.
MEDIUM SHOT: A half dozen men are sitting on the steps, listening, among them Stark and Wilson. Stark shakes his head sadly.
LONG SHOT: Several groups of two and three scattered about. They are standing in no particular places, as if they have been walking and stopped suddenly. They are all looking toward the INT. SQUAD ROOM - NIGHT MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT ANDERSON as the Taps repeat is drawing to a close. He is lying on his side, turned toward the Bugler, a look of serenity, of peace on his face. His eyes close as he falls asleep.
TRACKING SHOT: CAMERA MOVES along street, passing a lone pedestrian. It MOVES TOWARD the sign NEW CONGRESS CLUB, HOLDS beside an open window through which is heard the sound of harsh piano playing; the pounding style and lack of shading are clearly Fatso Judson's. CAMERA PANS AND INCLUDES Prew, leaning against the building. He is watching the entrance to the Club patiently. There is relentless hatred on his face. The music stops. Prew does not move.
PREW'S VOICE: Hello, Fatso. Fatso looks around in direction of voice. CAMERA PANS, DISCLOSES Prew, still leaning against the building. Fatso squints, not recognizing him.
FATSO: You want me?
PREW: Yeah, Fatso. Fatso takes a couple of steps toward Prew, squints again.
FATSO: I don't like that nickname. You want to see me about somethin?
PREW: Yeah. Let's step around the corner here where we can talk. Prew's voice is so toneless as to be ominous.
FATSO: ( GRINS )
FATSO: Okay. You sore about somethin?
PREW: No. I just don't like the way you play the piano. Fatso throws back his head and laughs loudly.
PREW: You know Maggio?
FATSO: The little Wop? The one who bust out of the Stockade? Sure. He was a real tough monkey. But crazy, see?
PREW: You killed him.
FATSO: Did I? If I did, he ask for it.
PREW: I hear they're gonna court martial you, Fatso. But before the Army gets you, I want a piece of you There is the snick of a blade snapping open as Fatso pulls a knife. He moves toward Prew, who steps swiftly to one side.
PREW: I kinds thought you'd try that. There is the same sound as Prew pulls a knife from his pocket, snaps it open, holds it out flat in his hand, showing it to Fatso.
PREW: This here's the one you pulled on Maggio once. Reconize it? Fatso darts at Prew, knife raised. Prew moves back, but Fatso is on him and they both roll to one side along the building. The movement throws them deep into the shadows.
MEDIUM SHOT: Fatso is on his back, his stomach gushing bloods his eyes already glazing. Prew staggers into the light now. His left side has two vicious cuts; he is bleeding badly. He stares down at Fatso, who manages a small, reproving voice.
FATSO: You've killed me. Why'd you want to kill me? Prew backs away from Fatso, turns, staggers down the alley away from camera.
MEDIUM SHOT: Prew comes toward camera, laboriously struggling up the road. His side is hemorrhaging steadily, his shirt and trousers blood-soaked. He stops close to camera. He wads his handkerchief, sticks it inside his shirt near the knife wound. He smiles wearily, crookedly.
PREW: ( mumbles to himself ) Gonna have an awful bad scar He lights a cigarette, his fingers shaking. The flame from the match illuminates his left wrist. There is a deep scar on it. It seems to fascinate Prew as he stares at it, rubs his fingers across it.
PREW: . scars. He turns, moves on up the road; CAMERA MOVES CLOSE behind him, as if overhearing his thoughts which come over on sound PREW'S VOICE ( O.S. ) . got that one fallin off the barn back home. gashed it on a spike. Dad laughed. Dead now. Uncle John+s dead, too. Prew moves away from camera out of shot.
ALMA: She rushes to him, bends over him. Gorgette runs to the radio, turns it off.
PREW: She rushes to him, bends over him. Gorgette runs to the radio, turns it off.
ALMA: MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT ALMA AND PREW He pushes himself up on one elbow, seems pleased by her stricken expression. He manages a smile.
PREW: ( WEAKLY )
PREW: . just came up to borrow a good INT. GENERAL'S OFFICE - DAY MEDIUM SHOT GENERAL SLATER COLONEL WILLIAMS HOLMES The American flag, the General's flag and the Division flag are the only colorful elements in a rather severe office. Colonel Williams is reading from a typed report.
COLONEL WILLIAMS: - In addition to inefficiency in administering his command and neglect of duty, Captain Holmes has been guilty of indefensible cruelty to the aforesaid Private Prewitt. This extended to instigating and encouraging wholly unauthorized and discreditable tactics to force the soldier to join the inter-regiment boxing team. These findings are the result of personal investigation by the Inspector General and are corroborated by numerous members of G Company. Colonel Williams puts his report on the General's desk. Holmes' face reflects a weary resignation as if underneath he has really expected something like this for a long time. He makes no move to speak. The General is angry clear through.
GENERAL SLATER: I'm waiting for your reply to this.
HOLMES: I haven't any, sir. The charges are true.
GENERAL SLATER: Holmes, the first thing I ever learned in the Army was that an officer takes care of his men. It seems to be the first thing you forgot. It's monstrous to think of anybody like you in command of troops. And believe me, you won't be for long. My only regret is that we have to keep you in uniform until a court martial is concluded.
HOLMES: If there were any way to avoid a court martial, sir. Any way. The General frowns, is unresponsive. Holmes looks to Colonel Williams helplessly.
COLONEL WILLIAMS: There is one alternative, General. if you're so disposed. A resignation for the good of the service under AR 600-275.
GENERAL SLATER: ( thinks a moment ) I'll give you a chance you don't deserve, Holmes. Write a letter of resignation and have it on my desk this afternoon. I'll consider accepting it. Only because as far as I'm concerned, the quicker you're out of the Army the better for everybody. Especially the Army.
HOLMES: - that's right, it's a letter of resignations I'm through! I've already been relieved! So you can begin packing. We're sailing for the States next week! She shakes her head, not wanting to believe; she takes the letter out of his hand, starts to read it. She stops after a sentence or two. Her hand falls to her side. Holmes sits on the bed heavily. The bluster bleeds out of him. He shakes his head, emotionally bewildered. For perhaps the first time in his life he is nakedly honest.
HOLMES: Where has it gone, Karen? What happened to it? The gay, cheerful life we were going to have, you and I.? What happened to me.? The proud, dashing officer was going to be. The leader of men?. I've known all along how the men felt about me. They despised me. What's happened? I don't remember losing anything. Where has it all MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT KAREN reacting; she is surprised, a little afraid of her own emotion. The outcry, so lost, so despairing, moves her. She is sorry for him.
HOLMES: Karen you're coming back with me, aren't you.? Trembling, Karen puts the letter on the dressing table. Abruptly, she runs out of the room.
ROSS: I don't intend to have a sloppy outfit. I don't intend to have a goldbrick outfit. I don't intend to have a soft soap outfit. I've called you noncoms in because you're the backbone of any Company.
ROSS: Get rid of these, Sergeant.
LEVA: Yes, sir.
ROSS: That's all I have to say. If you've any questions, speak up. Nobody speaks.
ROSS: The men troop out, passing camera. As last man leaves, CAMERA IS ON Warden. He is looking at Ross with considerable approval, even admiration. He resumes a more normal expression as Ross turns toward him.
WARDEN: One non-com was missing, sir. Sergeant Galovitch.
ROSS: I know. Private Galovitch is in the In the kitchen?
WARDEN: In the kitchen?
ROSS: As of now, he's an assistant cook. I busted him. On a blanket charge of inefficiency. What are you grinning at?
WARDEN: ( GRINNING )
WARDEN: ( INTO PHONE )
WARDEN: ( INTO PHONE )
WARDEN: ( INTO PHONE )
LONG SHOT: In b.g. Warden, in uniform, and Karen are sitting on the same bench as in their first meeting in the park. We cannot hear what they are saying at first. CAMERA MOVES IN past a few pedestrians and HOLDS on a MEDIUM SHOT. There is a defeated, tired look about them, as if they have been talking for a long time to no avail.
KAREN: . I guess I felt it that night I asked you to become an officer. When you didn't say yes right away.
WARDEN: I wanted to I tried but I He runs his hand through his hair. He seems to be groping inside himself for some way to explain.
WARDEN: Lissen there's a kid in our outfit named Prewitt. Robert E. Lee Prewitt. He came in from the States about a year ago. I thought he was a fresh punk at first. until I got to know him a little. He's AWOL right now probly in some kind of real trouble he ain't the kind to go AWOL otherwise. Anyway, I keep remembering somethin he said to me the first day he came in. He said a man has got to go his own way. if he don't, he's nothin. I'm an Enlisted Man. I'm a First Sergeant. Milt Warden. Once I cross that line and tried to be an officer, I'm somebody I don't know. A stranger. And a man has got to be what he I guess that's the trouble with Dana. He's always tried to be something he isn't. Poor Dana. I don't think he ever needed me until ( shaken herself out of it ) Well, here we are saying goodbye. And talking about two other people.
KAREN: I guess that's the trouble with Dana. He's always tried to be something he isn't. Poor Dana. I don't think he ever needed me until ( shaken herself out of it ) Well, here we are saying goodbye. And talking about two other people.
WARDEN: We're not saying good-bye we'll figger out a way for you to stay
HERE: I'm going back with him, Milt. There's something in being needed. It isn't love. But it's something.
KAREN: I'm going back with him, Milt. There's something in being needed. It isn't love. But it's something.
WARDEN: ( DESPERATELY )
KAREN: ( SMILES )
KAREN: No, Milt. I don't want to kiss you any more. I just want to remember you. And you to remember me.
WARDEN: Put it down. Put it down that on December 6th, 1941, Milton Anthony Warden told you he'd remember CAMERA PULLS BACK, PASSES a few pedestrians, Warden and Karen remaining in b.g. of shot. They begin to talk again, quietly, undemonstratively. We are too far away now to hear what they are saying.
PREW: Slep in the park that Sunday Seen all the folks gain to church Your belly feel so empty When you're left in the lurch Alma looks up from the paper.
ALMA: Here it is they're putting it on an inside page already.
PREW: Dog soljers don't own pews Re-enlistment Blues.
ALMA: ( ANNOYED ) ( COLDLY )
ALMA: ( COLDLY )
PREW: Yeah. To the memory of Robert E. Lee Prewitt, Holder of the New World's Record.
ALMA: I want to know what you plan to do.
PREW: Plan to do? When?
ALMA: Any time. Now. Tomorrow. Next week.
PREW: ( counts on fingers )
DATE ): . this is December sixth, ain't ( half-tirade, half-wail ) It's December sixth and you're so drunk you're wall-eyed. And all you've done since you fell in here is drink and drink and drink and try to remember that old song of yours. And I want to know what you're going to do! Prew looks at her, hurt. He moves back to his table, . might ship out on a tramp and go to Mexico and be a cowboy.
ALMA: ( half-tirade, half-wail ) It's December sixth and you're so drunk you're wall-eyed. And all you've done since you fell in here is drink and drink and drink and try to remember that old song of yours. And I want to know what you're going to do! Prew looks at her, hurt. He moves back to his table, . might ship out on a tramp and go to Mexico and be a cowboy.
PREW: . might ship out on a tramp and go to Mexico and be a cowboy.
ALMA: Oh, be sensible! Prew sits at the table again, continues to mumble.
PREW: . I'm goin back to the Compny. soon's my side heals. Goin back under my own power. Goin into the Ordrly Room 'n' say hello, Warden, Private Prewitt reportin.
ALMA: ( BREAKING )
PREW: Recruitin crews give me the blues Old Re-enlistment Blues.
FULL SHOT: CAMERA FEATURES clock on wall reading 7:52. About half the Company is at breakfast. There is considerable laughter and horseplay. Near the kitchen a dozen men are in the chow line.
MEDIUM SHOT: FEATURING Warden at the NCO table. He rises, carries his plate with him towards the chow line. A sudden, deep-toned, earthquake-like blast shudders through the room. The cups on the tables rattle. Warden stops, cocks his head. The men stop eating, look at each other.
ANDERSON: ( to the room ) Must be dynamitin down to Wheeler Them engineers mighty ambitious Sunday mornin before eight o'clock. The men resume eating. Warden moves a couple of steps toward the chow line when the second blast hits. It is much heavier and fuller.
CHOATE: Them engineers mighty ambitious Sunday mornin before eight o'clock. The men resume eating. Warden moves a couple of steps toward the chow line when the second blast hits. It is much heavier and fuller.
MAZZIOLI: The Japs're bombing Wheeler Field! It's the Japs! They're bombing Wheeler Field! The Japs! It's the Japs! I saw the red circles on the LONG SHOT SHOOTING UP CIRCLES ON UNDERSIDE OF MOVING PLANE The roar of the plane over shot.
MEDIUM SHOT: Some of the men continue to crane at the sky. A few pick up metal links from the Jap bullets.
NAIR: Say! This'll make me a good souvenir! A bullet from a Jap This ain't jawbone! This is for record. Theme real bullets that guy was usin. Get inside all of ya! Warden gets Mazzioli to his feet, turns to first man in group surrounding them. It is Anderson.
WARDEN: This ain't jawbone! This is for record. Theme real bullets that guy was usin. Get inside all of ya! Warden gets Mazzioli to his feet, turns to first man in group surrounding them. It is Anderson.
WARDEN: Help him over to the hospital. Anderson starts Mazzioli down the street.
WARDEN'S VOICE: GET INSIDE! The men rush for cover, all except Choate who is left alone in shot. He takes a big bite of his sausage and eggs, hastily downs a swig of coffee. Then he throws the plate and cup into the street and dives for cover as the terrifyingly loud noise of the Jap planes indicates they are directly overhead.
GET INSIDE!: MEDIUM SHOT
MEDIUM SHOT: The men rush for cover, all except Choate who is left alone in shot. He takes a big bite of his sausage and eggs, hastily downs a swig of coffee. Then he throws the plate and cup into the street and dives for cover as the terrifyingly loud noise of the Jap planes indicates they are directly overhead.
FULL SHOT: The men are pouring in from the Company street, all shouting at once. Warden pushes his way through them and jumps up on the pool table. His big voice booms.
WARDEN: All right, all right, you men! Quiet down! Quiet down! It's only a war. Ain't you ever been in a war The men begin to quiet down, look to Warden respectfully. Through the scene the heavy earth shudders are felt and heard as bombs hit in the far distance. Also the sound of the strafing planes.
WARDEN: We're gonna organize a fire umbrella defense. I want the non- coms to get BARs and ammunition from the Supply Room and get up on the roof. Henderson, you're in charge of the loading detail. Get The non-coms push out the door.
TREADWELL: Hey, what about me? I been waitin all my life to git to shoot a BAR at somethin!
WARDEN: Okay. It's your life. Treadwell hurries after the non-coms.
WARDEN: The rest of you guys - the CQ will unlock the rifle racks. Every man get his rifle and go to his bunk and stay there. And I mean stay there! I'm making each squad leader responsible to keep his men inside. If you have to use a rifle butt to do it, that's okay, too. There are shouts of protest. The men are over the first shock now and beginning to get angry, anxious for action.
WARDEN: You heard me! This ain't no maneuvers. You go runnin around outside you'll get your ears shot off. You want to be heroes, you'll get plenty chances later. You'll probly have Japs in your laps before night.
SOLDIER: What if they bomb us?
WARDEN: You hear a bomb comin, you're free to take off for the brush. But don't worry the Japs'll probly drop all their bombs on Pearl Harbor and Hickam. They ain't gonna waste `em on us. So let's can the chatter. We're wastin time. Squad leaders, get `em upstairs! Squad leaders begin to herd their men out. Warden jumps off the pool table. Stark and Karelsen come up to him.
STARK: What you want me to do, First? I got a hangover, but I can still
WARDEN: You stick in the kitchen and make a big pot of coffee. No make a barrel of coffee.
KARELSEN: I think I could get one of them Japs with a machine gun, Milt. We'll put the tripod over a chimney. And hold her down by the Whatever you say, Pete. They smile at each other affectionately, then push into the crowd leaving the Day Room.
WARDEN: Whatever you say, Pete. They smile at each other affectionately, then push into the crowd leaving the Day Room.
MEDIUM SHOT: The non-coma are arguing violently with Leva at the door to the Supply Room. Jap planes are loud overhead.
LEVA: I don't care. I can't issue any live ammunition without a signed order from an officer.
HENDERSON: But there ain't no officers yet, you jerk! Lieutenant Ross lives off the post.
LEVA: ( FOLDS ARMS )
DHOM: He won't let us have no ammo, Top!
CHOATE: Hats got it locked up. An the keys in his pocket.
WARDEN: Gimme them keys!
LEVA: I can't, Top. I got to obey my orders. No live ammo without a
SIGNED: They flatten against the wall as a Jap plane roars building- high down the street, machine guns flaring. After it passes, they rush back to Lava,
WARDEN: What's the matter? You blind? You see them planes ?! Lava puts his hand in his pocket protectively, shakes his I ain't gonna do it, Top. I
LEVA: I ain't gonna do it, Top. I
WARDEN: Okay. Chief, bust the door down.
WARDEN: Go ahead. Bust it down. He'll get out of the way.
LEVA: Remember I warned you. I did my Okay. I'll see you get a medal. Warden dashes up the porch steps as Choate, Henderson and Dhom launch themselves at the door. Leva steps aside. The door rattles ponderously, then flies open. The three battering rams careen into the Supply Room. The men standing by cheer and rush in after them. Leva shakes his head grimly.
WARDEN: Okay. I'll see you get a medal. Warden dashes up the porch steps as Choate, Henderson and Dhom launch themselves at the door. Leva steps aside. The door rattles ponderously, then flies open. The three battering rams careen into the Supply Room. The men standing by cheer and rush in after them. Leva shakes his head grimly.
FULL SHOT: The men are sitting on their bunks, unhappily, holding their rifles. Others who have slept through breakfast are dressing hastily. Warden rushes into the room. The men immediately bark ad-libbed questions at him:
SOLDIERS: ( AD LIB )
WARN: ( PITILESSLY )
WARDEN: You'll catch a cold, Turp.
THORNHILL: Don't go out there, First Sergeant! You'll be killed! They're shootin it up! You'll be dead! You'll not be alive any more. Don't go out You better put your pants on. Warden hits the floor as a plane is heard so loud and low it sounds as if it's coming right into the room. A dotted line of bullets crosses the floor and moves into Warden's and Karelsen's room. Warden jumps up and rushes into the room.
WARDEN: You better put your pants on. Warden hits the floor as a plane is heard so loud and low it sounds as if it's coming right into the room. A dotted line of bullets crosses the floor and moves into Warden's and Karelsen's room. Warden jumps up and rushes into the room.
MEDIUM SHOT: as Warden runs in. Broken glass lies all over the floor. Bullet holes are stitched across the top of Warden's footlocker. He throws back the lid fiercely. His linen is polka-dotted with holes. He tosses out shirts, shorts, etc., digs underneath them. He pulls out a quart bottle of whisky; it is untouched. Warden smiles with relief. He lifts the bottle to his lips, drinks long and heartily.
DHOM: ( SHOUTING )
ANOTHER ANGLE: as Warden comes up on the roof through the skylight. He shouts incoherently at the men. They shout back in a wild cheer. They are like a pack of hungry men enjoying their first big meal in years. In b.g. the Jap V has swung about and heads back. Warden grabs a BAR from the roof.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Warden makes a tour of the roof, laughing, exhorting, slapping the men on their buttocks like a quarterback. They respond with tremendous spirit; they are having one hell of a time. We get only a snatch of what Warden is yelling.
WARDEN: Don't worry about wasting ammo! Throw your empty clips down into the yard. The loading detail will pick 'em up The sound of a bugle blowing insistently is now heard, blending into the rest of the noise. Treadwell runs to the edge of the roof, looks over.
TREADWELL: Friday's gone crazy! He's blowing the Cavalry Charge!
PREW: ( MUTTERS )
ALMA: What Germans?!
PREW: ( points to the radio ) It's the Japs. The Japs!
GORGETTE: It's the Japs. The Japs!
PREW: . dirty Germans. Alma shakes Prew, hard. He falls back on the couch, passes EXT. QUADRANGLE - DAY The Jap strafing attack is continuing. Their planes are making a figure 8 in the sky. Silhouettes of men on the roof can b e seen. Friday Clark is blowing his Cavalry Charge. In b.g. men of the loading detail are scurrying around. Lieutenant Ross runs into shot. CAMERA PANS him across the quadrangle toward the barracks.
FULL SHOT: The Jap strafing attack is continuing. Their planes are making a figure 8 in the sky. Silhouettes of men on the roof can b e seen. Friday Clark is blowing his Cavalry Charge. In b.g. men of the loading detail are scurrying around. Lieutenant Ross runs into shot. CAMERA PANS him across the quadrangle toward the barracks.
FULL SHOT: As before, pandemonium but controlled and efficient. The men are hoarse from shouting, red-eyed, puffing from excitement and exertion. Two Jap planes swoop past and the full-throated umbrella of fire lets loose. Lieutenant Ross clambers onto the roof, stooping under the burden of the BAR and loading clips. The men greet him with a concerted cheer.
DHOM'S VOICE: HERE THEY COME, MEN! Sound of Jap planes comes up ear-splitting loud. Ross drops down behind a chimney, swings his BAR, fires. CAMERA MOVES TO INCLUDE Karelsen at the other side of the chimney, firing the machine gun. Two soldiers hang onto the bucking legs of the tripod. Two Jap planes pass in b.g. of shot, zoom off into the sky.
KARELSEN: ( DISGUSTEDLY )
MEDIUM SHOT: as the men on the roof reload. In the distance the Jap planes have turned and are heading back for the roof.
WARDEN: You got him, Pete! You got him!
KARELSEN: ( spits over roof ) Ah, nobody'll ever know which of us got that guy.
ANOTHER ANGLE: as the men return to their positions. Two planes head for them, pass over as Company G lets go again with everything it
WILSON: ( pointing after second of
WARDEN: Well, he ain't got no business here. We're takin care of this HERE COMES A JAP! SHOT SHOOTING FROM ROOF JAP PLANE swooping across the quadrangle about ten feet from the EXT. QUADRANGLE - DAY MEDIUM SHOT NEAR BUGLER'S POST Friday Clark, blowing the Cavalry Charge madly, abandons the megaphone as he sees the plane coming. He drops on his chest, hugging the bugle. The plane passes. Clark jumps up instantly, resumes blowing the Charge.
ROSS: HERE COMES A JAP! SHOT SHOOTING FROM ROOF JAP PLANE swooping across the quadrangle about ten feet from the EXT. QUADRANGLE - DAY MEDIUM SHOT NEAR BUGLER'S POST Friday Clark, blowing the Cavalry Charge madly, abandons the megaphone as he sees the plane coming. He drops on his chest, hugging the bugle. The plane passes. Clark jumps up instantly, resumes blowing the Charge.
MEDIUM SHOT: The men flatten, all but Warden. He stands, swings his BAR toward the plane. CAMERA IS ANGLED so that Warden is silhouetted against the sky as he fires at the Jap plane.
PREW: Alma! Alma! He goes to the blackout curtains, peeps out. Then he turns back to listen to the radio. Abruptly, he runs into the The room remains empty for a few moments as the radio announcer goes on, continuing previous remarks.
PREW'S VOICE: The room remains empty for a few moments as the radio announcer goes on, continuing previous remarks.
PREW: ( yells at radio ) You said it! Who they think they're fight in? ( incoherent with rage; to
GIRLS ): They're pickin trouble with the best Army in the best riflemen you know we the ony country on the face of the earth that uses the shooting gunsling, not the carrying gunsling. You know that? The radio continues on under the scene. Alma and Gorgette speak breathlessly, in a rush.
ALMA: We've been at Queens Hospital giving blood
GORGETTE: The town's a madhouse. Trucks, busses, jeeps all over
ALMA: A house on Kuhio Street was bombed
OUT: And the drugstore on McKully and King is smashed flat. And the man and his wife were killed Prew gestures to radio as if he's heard all about it. He sticks his shirttails into his trousers.
GORGETTE: And the drugstore on McKully and King is smashed flat. And the man and his wife were killed Prew gestures to radio as if he's heard all about it. He sticks his shirttails into his trousers.
PREW: I gotta get back to the Post I'll try to get in touch with you in a couple days
ALMA: The Post? Tonight? Prew nods vehemently, moves across room to a table.
ALMA: But why?
PREW: Why? There's a war goin on.
ALMA: But you can't! You're not fit yet you're weak as a kitten you're AWOL they'll throw you in the
STOCKADE: ( LAUGHS WILDLY )
PREP: ( LAUGHS WILDLY )
GORGETTE: Your side'll open up
ALMA: And they'll find out it was you who killed that soldier! Prew shakes his head, as if obsessed by only one thought.
PREW: Once I report in to the Compny I'll be all right. Once I get there. I gotta get back
ALMA: But you'll never make it! There's MPs all over
PREW: I'll make it. I'll go along the back roads. They'll let me in the West gate they'll know I'm a
SOLJER: He puts the folded piece of paper in his pocket and starts for the door.
ALMA: Stay till morning! Prew glances at Alma incredulously. She sobs suddenly, Maybe if you stayed till morning you'd change your mind. She throws her arms around him, clings to him.
ALMA: Maybe if you stayed till morning you'd change your mind. She throws her arms around him, clings to him.
ALMA: Don't go, Prew! I'll do whatever you want. We'll figure out a way to get to the States together. We can even get married. If you go I won't see you any more. I know it. Prew holds her closely for a moment, then moves her away from him. He turns toward the door.
ALMA: ( tears turning to
HYSTERIA ): What do you want to go back to the Army for?! What did the Army ever do for you? Besides treat you like scum and give you one awful going over and get your friend killed? What do you want to go back to that Prew frowns as if he's not sure he heard correctly.
PREW: What do I want to go back for? I'm a soljer.
ALMA: ( LAUGHING WILDLY )
PREW: Sure. A thirty-year man.
FIRST MP: They say they seen parachutists land up in the mountains.
SECOND MP: I ain't worried about them. Sabatoors is what worries me.
DRIVER: Yeah. Theys the creepy ones. Walkin around just like ordinary civilians. I betcha they operatin all over these islands.
MP'S VOICE: Prew starts to run back across the road. A white spotlight flashes on, its harsh brilliant light following him. Prew slips to one knee.
MEDIUM SHOT: Prew rises, staggers away from the jeep.
MP'S VOICE: Prew flings the rock desperately toward the lights. There is a crash of glass and one headlight winks off. Prew runs across the road and onto the golf course.
HALT!: Prew flings the rock desperately toward the lights. There is a crash of glass and one headlight winks off. Prew runs across the road and onto the golf course.
PREW: I'm a soljer!
MP: That guy ain't no soljer he dint
HALT: MEDIUM SHOT PREW standing on the lip of the trap, the jeep bearing down on him. He turns, starts to dive into the trap. A blast of gunfire from the jeep hits him. He falls sideways into the trap, rolls over on his back, The jeep moves into the shot, crawls half-way over the trap, stops, its spotlight pouring down on Prew. His eyes are open, looking up to the sky.
ANOTHER ANGLE: CAMERA SHOOTS DOWN to Prew from top of trap. A portion of the jeep is in shot, but we are not able to see the MPs.
MP'S VOICE: ( quavering, almost
TEARFUL ): ( MORE )
PREW'S VOICE: . sweat it out and sweat it out and wait and wait and wait for it. and now it's here. it's here. gotta see to do it well. gotta do it well. won't take CAMERA MOVES CLOSER TO CLOSEUP of Prew's open eyes.
PREW'S VOICE: . just a little more now. gotta do it good. it'll be over. nobody lies. lonely. a man has. got to have some place. Prew's eyes close. THE SCREEN GOES BLACK.
BLACK LEADER: There is no sound as the screen remains black for several EXT. GOLF COURSE - NIGHT TWO SHOT WARDEN AND A LIEUTENANT COLONEL They are looking down to camera, which SHOOTS UP as if from point of view of Prew's body in the sand trap. The dimmed headlights of two jeeps illuminates them. Warden is fighting to control his emotion, to remain the professional soldier. The Lieutenant Colonel is disturbed, but kindly.
LIEUTENANT COLONEL: Where's your Company Commander?
WARDEN: He's at Headquarters, sir. I'm the First Sergeant.
LIEUTENANT COLONEL: Did you know this man personally?
WARDEN: Yes, sir.
LIEUTENANT COLONEL: He didn't have any regular identification. But they found a card on him with his name ( holds card close to
HEADLIGHT ): seems to be a membership in a club. The New Congress Club.
WARDEN: Yes, sir. The Lieutenant Colonel hands the card to Warden.
LIEUTENANT COLONEL: I'll turn this over to you. And these other things that were on him. This He unfolds a sheet of paper, holds it to the headlight. He and Warden squint at it.
WARDEN'S VOICE: Yes, air. Very softly, so distant that we can only distinguish a word or two now and then, we hear the voices of Clark, Anderson and Prew singing the "Re-enlistment Blues." The plaintive melody continues under the rest of the scene.
LIEUTENANT COLONEL: And this. Whatever it is.
WARDEN: It's the mouthpiece of a bugle. The Lieutenant Colonel looks at Warden closely.
LIEUTENANT COLONEL: Are you all right, Sergeant? Was this man a friend of yours? Warden speaks very formally.
WARDEN: Sir, this man was a good soldier. He loved the Army moren any soljer I ever knew. I would like to make a formal request that this body be buried in the Army's permanent cemetery at Schofield Barracks.
LIEUTENANT COLONEL: I believe I can attend to that for Thank you, sir.
WARDEN: Thank you, sir.
LIEUTENANT COLONEL: I'm sorry, Sergeant. The Lieutenant Colonel walks off.
WARDEN: No, sir. I hardly knew the guy.
ALMA'S VOICE: It's very beautiful, isn't it?
KAREN: ( SOCIABLY )
ALMA: No one would know there was a war, from out here. Karen takes off her leis, begins tossing them over the rail.
KAREN: There's a legend. If they float in toward shore, you'll come back some day. If they float out to sea, you I won't come back. I had to get away from here. You see, my fiance was killed on December seventh.
ALMA: I won't come back. I had to get away from here. You see, my fiance was killed on December seventh.
KAREN: Oh, I am sorry.
ALMA: ( quickly, as if rehearsed ) He was a bomber pilot. He tried to taxi his plane off the apron and the Japs made a direct hit on it. Maybe you read about it in the papers. They awarded him a Silver Star. They sent it to his mother. She wrote me she wanted me to have ( tossing the last of leis
KAREN: ( tossing the last of leis
OVER ): That's very fine of her.
ALMA: They're very fine people. Southern people. He was named after a General. Robert E. Lee Prewitt. Karen looks at Alma numbly. Alma is looking out across the Robert E. Lee Prewitt. ( on verge of tears ) Isn't that a silly old name?
KAREN: Robert E. Lee Prewitt. ( on verge of tears ) Isn't that a silly old name?
ALMA: Robert E. Lee Prewitt. ( on verge of tears ) Isn't that a silly old name?
THE END: Writers : Daniel Taradash
