THE FUGITIVE: Jeb Stuart and David Twohy
AID FOUNDATION": Kimble is handed a glass of champagne, which he promptly sets on another waiter's passing tray.
ROBERTS: Cancun. Nat just talked everybody into it. A hospital equipment rep, NAT, is buying drinks.
KIMBLE: So, what's the deal? If the hospital buys ten new -
NAT: No, no, no, no strings attached, Dr. Kimble. Industrial Hospital Supply has no ulterior motives.
KIMBLE: On the house, huh? Tonic water with lime. Everyone agrees.
KIMBLE: Never get me to sell my soul for one of those trips. His tone silences the group. Kimble takes his drink.
KIMBLE: ( to Nat ) . But if you get any more Bulls tickets, Nat, give me a call. The group laughs, Kimble extracts himself and CREDITS
KIMBLE: Moving through the crowd.
KIMBLE: Nearly gets hit in the follow-through of an imaginary golf swing.
KIMBLE: You're slicing, Dave. Don't turn your hip. He keeps moving.
GOLFING MAN: Thanks, Richard.
DR. WAHLUND: ( dripping sarcasm ) I'm so glad you talked me into coming, Richard. I can pick my cruise wardrobe.
RICHARD: It's for a good cause, Kath. Besides you need to get out of the lab more. Your electron microscope is starting to give you a tan. She smiles. He moves on.
KIMBLE: Hey, Jim. DR. JAMES NICHOLS turns, smiles. Mid-40s, head of the University Hospital. He is a fit contemporary.
NICHOLS: Richard, I just saw someone who wanted to meet you. Just then Kimble spots an attractive WOMAN, late thirties, wearing a drop-dead, simple black gown. She's surrounded by a group of men hanging on her every word. She and Kimble catch a look and hold it.
LENTZ: Dr. Kimble. Sorry, we've been trading phone calls last few days . something about a biopsy report I returned to you?
KIMBLE: ( suddenly attentive ) Yeah. Three. Livers appeared hepatetic to me.
LENTZ: I'll be in my office in the morning and I'll pull up the samples. Is that a good time for you?
KIMBLE: ( holds Kimble's look, then to Nichols ) See you, Jim. Lentz moves on. Kimble looks after him a beat, then focuses on relocating the Woman he just saw. She's gone. He and Nichols move together through the party.
LENTZ: ( holds Kimble's look, then to Nichols ) See you, Jim. Lentz moves on. Kimble looks after him a beat, then focuses on relocating the Woman he just saw. She's gone. He and Nichols move together through the party.
NICHOLS: ( digs in his pocket ) Before I forget, I went by the garage this afternoon and picket up the Ferrari. Thanks for the loaner again. He hands Kimble a valet ticket.
KIMBLE: They fix it this time?
NICHOLS: We'll see. They reach the Woman Kimble saw, his wife, HELEN KIMBLE. Kimble kisses her.
NICHOLS: You look fabulous, Helen. He kisses Helen.
NICHOLS: ( to Kimble ) We've got a court tomorrow at three. Nichols leaves. Kimble looks at his wife.
KIMBLE: Well, I've seen everyone, can we That would be a little abrupt, don't you think?
HELEN: That would be a little abrupt, don't you think?
HELEN: ( to her dinner partners ) I'm sorry, I have to get my husband They say their good-byes and pass Nichols' table. Nichols shakes his friend's hand in passing. From across the room we see Lentz watching.
HELEN: You looked handsome tonight.
KIMBLE: Thank you. He smiles to himself, seems to enjoy the compliment too much for Helen. Her smile becomes playful, mischievous.
HELEN: Uh, huh. most men in a tuxedo look like waiters.
KIMBLE: But me?
HELEN: You looked more like. a band He stops at red light, leans over and kisses her. Light changes and neither notice. Slowly their kiss breaks.
HELEN: Are we home yet?.
KIMBLE: ( to phone ) Dr. Kimble ( suddenly attentive ) When? Okay, tell them I'll be there in ten minutes. He hangs up.
KIMBLE: Tim's got a problem. Helen kisses him again, opens the door.
HELEN: Call me on your way home. CREDITS END as we -
KIMBLE: Cavalry's here. Two harried surgeons look up, glad to see him.
SCRUB ROOM: Kimble begins scrubbing as the RESIDENT comes out to bring him up to speed.
RESIDENT: Patient is a male, forty-three. We pulled his gall bladder and the bleeding started.
KIMBLE: What's his pro time?
RESIDENT: ( concerned ) He's at 36 seconds. We got a major bleeder in here.
KIMBLE: You talk to the family?
RESIDENT: None. He's off the street.
KIMBLE: ( to Anesthesiologist ) Okay. I'm clamping. Can he tolerate it?
ANESTHESIOLOGIST: He's a very sick guy.
KIMBLE: Do we have a choice?
ANESTHESIOLOGIST: Go for it.
KIMBLE: Marie, give me a clamp. MARIE, the scrub nurse, passes him the instrument and Kimble and the other SURGEON continue to work with the Resident Your husband know you're here tonight, Marie?. What about this liver?
KIMBLE: ( never looking up ) Your husband know you're here tonight, Marie?. What about this liver?
RESIDENT: History's sketchy. Could be an Who referred him?
KIMBLE: Who referred him?
RESIDENT: He's on a drug protocol. RDU90. Kimble looks up and shares a look with the chief Resident over their masks, then back to work.
KIMBLE: The wave of the future. Marie, you told Frank yet? Frank is so jealous of this late night thing we've got going here. This should hold him. Bleeding's stopped. Let's get a Send it downstairs and make sure you get Kath her slice.
SURGEON: You staying for the closing, Rich? Kimble moves away and sheds his gloves and gown.
KIMBLE: No. I got a date.
SURGEON: Hey, Richard. Kimble turns.
SURGEON: CUT TO: INT. KIMBLE'S CAR - NIGHT Kimble driving through empty Chicago streets toward home. He is on phone, waits for answer.
KIMBLE: Hi. I'm five minutes away.
HELEN: I'm glad it went well. I'll see you in a minute. Helen hangs up phone, turns out the light and starts up the CUT TO: EXT. CHICAGO STREET - NIGHT Kimble driving.
KIMBLE: I'm home. Did you hear who won the Bulls game? No answer. He steps into the:
KITCHEN: The wall phone shows a line in use. Kimble notices it. The WASHER BUZZES, he switches the clothes from washer to dryer, and STARTS the MACHINE. Takes a bottle of wine and two glassesand leaves the kitchen.
ON KIMBLE: Climbing the stairs. suddenly stops. A small white ball on the stairs. He bends down and picks it up. a pearl.
KIMBLE: Silence. He can see directly into the bedroom. It's quiet. Too quiet. He notices a lampshade on the floor.
HELEN: He's trying to kill me. Kimble appears. Helen drops the phone when she sees him.
HELEN: ( to Kimble ) Richard. He's trying to kill me. my head.
KIMBLE: Hang on, babe. going to be all Her fingernails dig into Kimble's arm, trying to hold on.
HELEN: My head. Richard my hold me. Her eyes slip away from his. He peels away the hand on her head - and sees raw pummeled brain staring back and realizes she won't be all right. CAMERA SWINGS DOWN TO the dropped phone.
ANGLE: Third floor. The First Cop, gun drawn, turns the corner of Kimble's bedroom and finds: Kimble holding his dead wife. Blood on his hands.
COP #1: Move away from her.
KIMBLE: It was .38. I think. I only saw it for a second. I knocked it out of his hand. As Kimble is questioned we INTERCUT WITH flashes of the murder scene being processed:
KIMBLE: DETECTIVE ROSETTI ( V.O. ) What kind of gun?
KIMBLE: A .38 Smith.
DETECTIVE KELLY: Did you have your key with you tonight, Dr. Kimble?
KIMBLE: What's going on here? This guy was trying to rob us. The two cops stare at Kimble.
KIMBLE: You guys have got to be out of your minds. I didn't kill my wife! He gets up to go. A cop blocks his path. He turns and looks at Kelly.
DETECTIVE KELLY: Let's start over, Dr. Kimble. What'd you have for breakfast?
JUDGE BENNETT: . and this case is a heater. It will not end up a bench trial.
GUTHERIE: . We can't find this guy.
KIMBLE: I know what I saw, Walter.
GUTHERIE: I put you up on the stand to say what you saw without anything that remotely smells like proof and the State's attorney is going to take this one-armed man story and run it up our ass. Look, Richard, you're paying us a lot of money to defend you. A plea to second degree -
KIMBLE: I didn't kill my wife.
DETECTIVE KELLY: On the stand.
DETECTIVE KELLY: No forcible entry was found. From the beginning of the investigation, it did not appear to be a break-in. Nothing was missing.
FORENSICS TECHNICIAN: On the stand.
FORENSICS TECHNICIAN: The defendant's prints were found on the neck, gun, bullets, and lamp. no other sets were fount other than the deceased.
PROSECUTOR: Dr. Nichols. You are aware that Richard Kimble was the only beneficiary of Helen Kimble's estate. 12 million dollars roughly.
NICHOLS: I was aware of that. The money meant nothing to him.
PROSECUTOR: Yet in your presence, Richard Kimble once said that 'if he had Helen's money he could find plenty of uses.' Did he not?
NICHOLS: We were talking about -
PROSECUTOR: Yes or no? Nichols' look tells us everything. Yes.
CORONER: On the stand.
CORONER: The wound to the head caused a massive hemorrhage to the brain. It took from five to seven minutes for her to die. A woman in the jury reacts. Kimble notices.
KIMBLE: On the stand. He finishes his moving description of the events. We see some of the jury has been moved.
KIMBLE: . And I was holding her when the officers came in. Gutherie returns to his seat. The Prosecutor moves to the jury. He begins slowly but his questions pick up strength.
PROSECUTOR: How tall was this man, Dr. Kimble?
KIMBLE: I can't be sure. We were, mostly on the floor, fighting. I couldn't -
PROSECUTOR: Did that fight cause the scratches on your face and arms?
KIMBLE: No. As I explained -
PROSECUTOR: And how did this man enter your I don't know -
KIMBLE: I don't know -
PROSECUTOR: And you probably don't know why your wife told the emergency operator You were her attacker?
KIMBLE: She didn't -
PROSECUTOR: Your name is Richard, isn't it? Your gun is a .38, isn't it? Your prints were on the gun, the bullets, the lamp, her neck, weren't they?
KIMBLE: Weren't they?
PROSECUTOR: Weren't they?
JUDGE BENNETT: After careful and studied review of all evidence presented during each phase of this proceeding, and because aggravated circumstances, detailed at length, were present the night of January 20th. Kimble is silent, stunned, but all around him the sentence shockwaves through the courtroom. Reporters push out rear doors. Prosecutors share a look - with a hangman's satisfaction. Nichols, watching behind Kimble's table, lowers his head. Disbelief.
PRISONER #1: Hey. Illinois penal regulations require a meal for transport rides of four hours or more. Young Guard shakes his head. "Fucking jailhouse lawyers." Checks his watch: 4:00.
YOUNG GUARD: Jack! Feedin' time. Old Guard yawns to his feet, unhooks a key-ring from his belt. Young Guard stows his shotgun in the weapons locker. PRISONER #2 looks at Kimble. Kimble stirs awake. watches the cage door open, Young Guard moving back. And across the PRISONER #3, a big man named COPELAND, wags his head between his knees. Something slides out of his shirt and CLANKS to the dimpled steel floor. It's a razor sharp plastic shank. Heart quickening, Kimble looks forward. Young Guard is handing a petrified sandwich to Prisoner #1. Kimble snaps a look back to Copeland, who palms the shank.
COPELAND: Breathe, and you're first. Old Guard watches from the open cage door, shotgun carelessly ready. Young Guard reaches Kimble and extends a sandwich. Kimble doesn't respond.
YOUNG GUARD: Suit yourself. He offers the sandwich to Copeland. In the exchange, sandwich drops. Copeland leans down for it. Up front, Old Guard yawns again just as.
KIMBLE: Look out! Too late. Jackknifing up, Copeland drives the shank into Young Guard's gut. Prisoner #2 dives for Young Guard's holster. As the gun comes out, Young Guard gets a hand on it. A SHOT FIRES. Jolting Old Guard. He chambers his shotgun. Kimble hits the floor. The Old Guard jams a key into the cage door and surges inside, but. Prisoner #1 broadsides Old Guard. SHOTGUN DISCHARGES. Opening a big Gainsburger hole in the driver. He sinks under the steering wheel. A knee hits the accelerator. The CAGE DOOR SLAMS locked behind the Old Guard.
OLD GUARD: ( to Kimble ) You. You're a doctor. C'mere. He slides to the Young Guard as the Old Guard scrounges up a medical kit, shoves Kimble down on Young Guard.
OLD GUARD: Do something. Kimble looks at his cuffs. "In these?" Old Guard digs out his key ring and unlocks Kimble's hands - only his hands. Kimble opens medical kit. It's been ransacked - just Band-Aids now. Kimble looks into the wound.
KIMBLE: He isn't going to make it unless he gets to a hospital. Fast.
OLD GUARD: In this delicate moment a SHIVER runs through the bus. Is it just settling? With other things to worry about, Kimble tries to stop Young Guard's bleeding.
KIMBLE: Just where the hell are we? The Old Guard feels it too. He gets down on his knees and looks out one of the shattered, barred windows.
OLD GUARD: Oh, shit.
KIMBLE: It's locked. Where're your keys?
KIMBLE: Which one? This? This one?! Old Guard gulps a nod. Kimble jams a key in the lock. Throws the door open. Grabs Young Guard.
KIMBLE: Help me get him - But Old Guard climbs right over Kimble's back and climbs out the shattered windshield.
COPELAND: You listen to me. I don't give a damn which way you go, just don't follow me. Kimble takes the key as Copeland wraps his chains around his arm and runs. Kimble unlocks his leg irons and runs in the other direction - crossing a hilltop in the moonlight.
GERARD: Good lord.
REFRO: What is this. a circus? As a group they begin moving along the service road above the crash site. Derailed train cars are accortianed below them. They take in the elements of the crash and as they walk each begins to reveal their U.S. Marshal's credentials. Biggs spots something.
BIGGS: Point of impact. . and branches off.
GERARD: Biggs, your turn to babysit Newman.
BIGGS: ( to Newman ) Come on. They drop down to the crash site. Poole ant Renfro remain with Gerard. A state TROOPER steps into their path, but falls away when he sees Gerard's Marshall star.
GERARD: How ya doing? Who's in charge?
TROOPER: Sheriff Rollins. Just follow the lights - Gerard follows his point to where TV lights illuminate the scene. He shakes his head - it doesn't please him. Renfro and Poole share a look, they seem to know what's about to happen.
OLD GUARD: . train was bearin' down on us, fast. I don't know how - it's still kind of hazy - but I grabbed him and pushed him out of the bus.
SHERIFF: You coulda both been killed.
OLD GUARD: I know, but hell, he's my partner. Woulda done the same for me. The young Sheriff in charge nods, buying the story. Gerard eases forward, displays his badge, interrupts.
GERARD: Excuse me, Sheriff Rollins? Deputy U.S. Marshal Samuel Gerard.
SHERIFF: ( annoyed ) I'll be with you in a minute. The television lights widen to illuminate Gerard. He shields his eyes. The Sheriff opens a file and produces fax-photos of all four prisoners.
SHERIFF: ( to Old Guard ) For the record. These three dead. And this one. He switches to a photo of Kimble.
OLD GUARD: Well, everything happened so fast. Huh-uh. Don't think he made it. Sheriff eyes the wreckage that could entomb a hundred prisoners, then files Kimble's fax-photo with the others.
SHERIFF: You get some rest. He pats the Guard on the shoulder and approaches Gerard.
SHERIFF: Looks like you came a long way for nothing. My men've already done a thorough search from point of impact and found nothing.
GERARD: Aware of media, proceeds patiently with the young Sheriff.
GERARD: With all due respect, may I suggest check-points starting at a 15-mile radius on I-57, I-24, Route 13 east of -
SHERIFF: Whoa, whoa, whoa. For what? Prisoners are all dead. The only thing check-points will do is get a lot of good people out here frantic and flood my office with calls. Gerard finally touches eyeballs with the young Sheriff and we get our first taste of Gerard at close range.
GERARD: ( beat ) Well, shit, Sheriff, I'd hate for that to happen. So, I'll be taking over the investigation.
SHERIFF: On whose authority?
GERARD: By authority of the Governor of the State of Illinois and the office of the United States Marshal, 5th District Northern Illinois. Poole produces State and Federal authorization documents from one of her pockets and hands it to the young Sheriff.
SHERIFF: ( back-down beat ) Okay. You want jurisdiction over this mess, you got it. ( to assistants ) Shut it down. Wyatt Earp is here to mop up for us. He slaps the file of fax-photos at Gerard on his way out. Just as Biggs, spotless, eases ino the group with Kimble's manacles. Behind Biggs we see Newman, covered in mud. Seeing the leg irons, the Sheriff and his deputies pile to a stop. Now Gerard takes his run at Old Guard.
GERARD: Please, ladies and gentlemen, step back and give this poor man some Like an obedient dog the press backs off, they sense a change of story and command. Gerard kneels down with Poole and Renfro in front of the Old Guard. The Sheriff hovers near.
GERARD: ( friendly, to Old Guard ) Always an interesting thing when we find leg irons and no legs in them who held the keys, sir?
OLD GUARD: Uh, me.
GERARD: Would you be so kind as to show them to me, sir? Gerard's large hand extends palm up at the Old Guard. The Old Guard pats his pockets, comes up empty. He eyes the press hovering just out of earshot.
GERARD: Second chance. Poole reopens the file of photos in front of the man. The Old Guard can't take it - points to Kimble's photo.
OLD GUARD: ( cracking ) He mighta got out.
GERARD: Thank you.
SHERIFF: What the hell is this? A minute ago you tell me he's part of the wreckage, now you're -
GERARD: Renfro - Take that bus apart. I want an accurate body count. Poole - Set up operations right here. He stops and looks into the TV lights and starts moving downtrack. The media and State Police move with him like Israelites behind Moses.
GERARD: Ladies and gentlemen. our fugitive's been on the run for ninety minutes. Average foot speed over uneven ground - barring injury is approximately four miles an hour, giving us a radius of six miles. I want a hard-target search of any residence, gas station, farmhouse, henhouse, doghouse and outhouse in that area. Check-points go up at 15 miles. You got that? Good. Now, turn those damn things off and get out of our way.
POOLE: Blood trail found. Two miles Type it and match it against all four prisoners. Renfro, get an I.D. fax on Kimble to every local hospital. Newman appears.
GERARD: ( to Biggs ) Type it and match it against all four prisoners. ( to Renfro ) Renfro, get an I.D. fax on Kimble to every local hospital. ( to Newman ) Newman appears.
NEWMAN: Yes, sir.
GERARD: I need some coffee. As Newman steps off, everyone turns at sound of SHOUTING from the train crash.
WORKER: Hey, one's alive!
KIMBLE: His wound bathed in orange antiseptic wash, three stitches already in. With pair of forceps he picks up the needle as he sutures himself.
KIMBLE: Can you hear me, sir? No response. The man is out of it. Kimble backtracks to the patient's closet and opens it. Hanging inside we see his clothes. He removes them and notices the man's untouched breakfast tray.
NURSE: There's your fax.
DUTY NURSE: . Oh, you did a good job on this. She takes his empty plastic pitcher and. . pushes open the bathroom door - no sign of Kimble - and refills the pitcher from the sink.
DUTY NURSE: ( over her shoulder, to patient ) . It does get dry in here, doesn't She doesn't expect an answer, turns OFF the WATER, and goes into the main room. As the door closes we see Kimble behind CUT TO: INT. HOSPITAL - HALLWAY - DAY Kimble, clean-shaven, and wearing the patient's glasses and a doctor's white coat, moves down the hall to the emergency room exit. Suddenly the State Trooper steps back from the E.R. admissions desk with his newly received fax, and starts down the corridor toward Kimble. The Trooper looks up as the two men pass.
TROOPER: 'Scuse me, Doc?. Kimble turns but continues slowly backing toward the E.R. doors behind him.
TROOPER: . Don't know if you heard or not but we're looking for an escaped prisoner from that bus train wreck 'couple hours ago. Thought he might show up here if he was hurt.
KIMBLE: What's he look like? The Trooper looks down at his fact sheet as we see a slow trickle of blood from a shaving nick begin winding down Kimble's cheek.
TROOPER: ( from fax sheet ) Approximately six one, 180 pounds, brown hair, brown eyes and beard. At the last second Kimble feels the drop of blood and wipes it clean as the Trooper looks up.
TROOPER: . Seen anyone that fits that Every time I look in the mirror . but without the beard. They laugh.
KIMBLE: Every time I look in the mirror . but without the beard. They laugh.
KIMBLE: Excuse me.
TROOPER: Kimble moves through the E.R. doors as an ambulance parks EXT. RURAL HOSPITAL - EMERGENCY ROOM RAMP - DAY Two PARAMEDICS try to take out a patient on a gurney. The lead wheels are stuck.
KIMBLE: Kimble helps clear the wheels so the collapsible gurney comes free.
PARAMEDIC #2: Thanks, Doc, we had to dig him out from under a train. As the gurney comes out, Kimble looks right into the face of the Young Guard. The Guard's eyes suddenly open wide.
YOUNG GUARD: It's him. It's - Kimble claps the portable oxygen mask back over the Young Guard's mouth and keeps his hand there.
KIMBLE: How is he? The Paramedics move him toward the ramp.
PARAMEDIC #1: He's pretty bad off. Broken leg, ribs. Concussion. As Kimble moves away.
KIMBLE: Tell the E.R. doctor he's also got a perforated spleen. He's gone. The two Paramedics share a look as they whisk the Young Guard inside.
PARAMEDIC #2: ( impressed ) Jesus, how could he tell that from looking at his face?
POOLE: Background just came in from Hit me. Renfro and Poole lay out the details. The download of information comes clear and fast.
GERARD: Hit me. Renfro and Poole lay out the details. The download of information comes clear and fast.
RENFRO: Richard David Kimble. Vascular Surgeon. Convicted of first-degree murder in the killing of his wife. Pleaded innocent. Claimed a one-armed -
GERARD: Let's not retry the case. Priors and accomplices? Gerard steps up the hillside out of sight of the investigation to take a leak. Followed by Renfro and Poole.
RENFRO: None. No previous arrests. Poole takes up a position discreetly behind tree as Gerard unzips his fly and relieves himself.
GERARD: Sealed juvie record? Poole calls out from behind tree.
POOLE: Nothing. Total cherry.
GERARD: Relatives? Children?
RENFRO: No relatives.
POOLE: One child. A son. Died in drowning accident three years ago.
GERARD: Girl friends? Ex-wives? Friends? Combinations of the above?
POOLE: Lot of friends. Doctors. Hospital Gerard zips up.
GERARD: Start there. Authorize taps. Cover his lawyer first.
RENFRO: Never get it.
GERARD: Bet me. Renfro won't take it.
GERARD: Have Stevens go to Judge Rubin, he'll sign 'em. . Biggs charges up the hillside.
BIGGS: DeLange Hospital. Wounded guard swears to High Holy he saw Kimble right there in the hallway. Ambulance, missing too.
GERARD: Give me a time.
BIGGS: O-nine-thirty. Twenty minutes ago. Gerard redraws the circle of units. No longer are we covering a fifty-mile radius. The circle is redrawn, tightened, with the hospital as its center. The triangulation is set.
ROAD SIGN: An arrow points toward Canton, two miles. The cars in front slow as the railroad crossing signal suddenly activates and the bars begin to drop. Kimble pops the SIREN and hurriedly snakes through the crossing and heads in the opposite direction. but his maneuver gets INT. TRUCK CAB - DAY Truck driver watches Kimble cut through the crossing and reaches for his C.B. radio.
POOLE: Ambulance just spotted two miles west of Doverville. Heading north on State road 53. Renfro turns to the map and marks it. The circle is much Running outta map, Sam. The crash site and hospital are already marked. Gerard is ready to move.
RENFRO: Running outta map, Sam. The crash site and hospital are already marked. Gerard is ready to move.
GERARD: Just the way we want it. Okay, people, let's button up. They move off to waiting State Trooper cars and helicopter.
PILOT: ( into radio ) We've got a visual. ( to Gerard ) He's heading toward the viaduct.
GERARD: Seal it up.
ON KIMBLE: Suddenly sees the helicopter setting down ahead of him at the mouth of the tunnel. Kimble slams on brakes and turns to retreat.
ANGLE HELICOPTER: Gerard steps out followed by Renfro and Poole.
KIMBLE'S AMBULANCE: Comes to a stop, blocking traffic in both directions. Immediately HORNS begin BLARING.
RENFRO: Got him. Gerard unholsters a 40 caliber, Glock model 22.
GERARD: Okay, ladies and gentlemen hard part's over. He starts into the tunnel.
RENFRO: ( to radio ) We're movin' in.
ON MARSHALS: They reach the mid-tunnel area. No Kimble. Biggs looks around, beneath vehicles. Gerard listens. Poole looks Gerard spots the trickle of water. He backtracks it until he finds a loose grate in the pavement. Man-size.
POOLE: Where'd he go? Gerard spots the trickle of water. He backtracks it until he finds a loose grate in the pavement. Man-size.
GERARD: Biggs, Renfro with me.
GERARD: Channel Three. They conform their radios. Splitting up, Biggs and Renfro go left. Gerard - straight ahead.
BIGGS: ( into shoulder-mike ) Nothing yet.
GERARD: ( into radio ) Got a possible here. Stand by. He stows his light but hangs onto the Glock. Bracing with three limbs
KIMBLE: I didn't kill my wife.
GERARD: So, you didn't kill your wife. Not my problem. An adrenal beat. For a moment they hold a look. Then the silence is broken by Gerard's radio.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Gerard charges down the tunnel. From a side tunnel, Renfro appears, almost colliding. Biggs follows.
GERARD: Straight ahead!
KIMBLE'S POV: Water pours from the tunnel into the spillway of Barkley dam disappearing into a veil of mist below - a great cauldron of mists. No rocks. None visible at least. He hears the MARSHALS behind him - COMING CLOSER.
GERARD: Turn around, hands over your head. And get down on the ground. For a moment Kimble eyes Gerard.
GERARD: Your choice, Kimble. Kimble turns his back on the Marshals, stares again at the water. Slowly he puts his hands over his head. Gerard puts up his gun and pulls his handcuffs. He moves through the water toward Kimble.
GERARD: Get down on your knees. Kimble bends slowly, stares down into the falls, hears the footsteps get closer, then does the unthinkable. He jumps.
RENFRO: ( amazed ) Son of a bitch. It's the most amazing thing he's ever seen.
ON GERARD: He stands at the mouth of the tunnel staring down. He stares down into the mists. Impressed. It has told him something invaluable about this fugitive.
FROM SHORE: Gerard watches the dredge cage come up again. As if with the next pass it will prove him the victor. The HEAD ILLINOIS TROOPER CAPTAIN approaches.
HEAD TROOPER: Running out of daylight, Inspector.
GERARD: Lights and generators are coming, Look, I don't mean to tell you your job, but maybe one person in a million could've survived that fall. The guy's fish food. Gerard turns and brings his look to bear on the Captain.
HEAD TROOPER: Look, I don't mean to tell you your job, but maybe one person in a million could've survived that fall. The guy's fish food. Gerard turns and brings his look to bear on the Captain.
GERARD: Then find me the fish that ate him. He turns and heads to a waiting helicopter.
ANGLE: Helen in bed. Kimble's hand comes INTO FRAME and touches her shoulder. She turns toward Kimble as he moves INTO FRAME and kisses her.
ANGLE: Helen tosses her head back. She wears white silk pajamas and smiles down AT us. A hand reaches up and unbuttons the top two buttons of her top. Then Kimble moves up INTO FRAME as we -
HELEN: Good-bye. I love you. Again. Then again. then:
KIMBLE: Walter Gutherie please.
OLDER WAITRESS: Need to look at the menu?
KIMBLE: Some soup, please.
OLDER WAITRESS: Good choice. She marks her pad and leaves. Sights ant sounds around Kimble begins to occupy his attention: A dishwasher buses a tub of dishes back to the kitchen. He stares at him. A farmer sitting at a table stares at Kimble, Kimble looks away. A man at the pay phone seems to be staring at him. Is he calling the police? Everyone seems to be looking at him. Someone stops in front of him. A young waitress serves him his soup. Where's the first waitress? Takes a few sips of soup. Out of the corner of his eye he The Older Waitress putting on her coat to leave. Is she going to report him? He fights the paranoia. A NEWS REPORT on the TELEVISION gets his attention.
OLDER WAITRESS: Need a ride? Kimble stares at her.
KIMBLE: Which way are you going? She smiles and points in the direction her car is traveling. They hold a look as we hear:
RENFRO: Local officials were about to wet their pants to move in.
GERARD: I bet they were. Where's the woman?
BIGGS: In the plumbing truck. He triggers his mike.
RENFRO: ( into radio ) Same room.
GERARD: ( into radio ) Okay. I'll take front. Biggs and Renfro, rear. Poole, handle support. I don't want anyone hurt. Stay outside unless called. Radios on The deputies prepare their weapons. Newman checks his service issue .38, stares at Gerard's Glock.
NEWMAN: Uh, just want me to wait here, sir?
GERARD: Hell, no. You're with me, Newman. Let's go.
GERARD: U.S. Marshals. Down! Down!
THEIR POV: Down the hall a man's figure streaks across a doorway OUT
GERARD: Motions Newman to the left to check the door off the living room while he moves down the main hall into the back ANGLE - LIVING ROOM / NEWMAN Clearly unnerved by the screaming woman, Newman opens door off the living room. The door opens into a smaller bedroom. He steps into -
SMALLER BEDROOM: It's empty. Gerard appears at the other ( hallway ) door to the bedroom.
HALLWAY: Gerard motions Newman on to the door to the bathroom and continues down the hall into the back bedroom where the woman continues SCREAMING. He ignores her. His feet move silently, heel-to-toe. He checks the bathroom as Newman opens his connecting door - empty - then moves on toward the doorway to the kitchen. Gerard moves to the kitchen doorway. Running out of house. He braces himself swings into the kitchen - it too is empty. Suddenly Gerard gets the bad feeling he's passed his prey.
SMALLER BEDROOM: Newman looks around, suddenly scared. The only place he didn't search was behind the bedroom door. He turns just as:
COPELAND: Surges out, knocks Newman's gun from his hand. In a flash, Copeland yanks Newman's arm behind his back and presses a knife against the deputy's neck and moves him out of the INTERCUT WITH: He hears Copeland moving somewhere in the front of the house.
GERARD: He hears Copeland moving somewhere in the front of the house.
LIVING ROOM: Newman's eyes are pure terror - the blade pressed against his throat.
COPELAND: ( to Gerard ) You hear me? I said, I want out or I'll cut your man's throat!
GERARD: Keeps moving down the hallway, through first bedroom, pauses at door to the second bedroom and chooses his course.
LIVING ROOM: Copeland positions himself between the bedroom door and the hallway opening. He's troubled he can't hear Gerard. Suddenly he hears a NOISE behind him at the bedroom door He whips Newman around and we see: A shoe hits the floor. Copeland realizes his mistake too late. He turns back to the hallway and there is Gerard. He never blinks. FIRES once killing Copeland instantly. The knife falls to the floor. Newman clutches his head, stunned but unhurt. Gerard now turns to the screaming woman behind him in the bedroom doorway.
GERARD: Shut up. She does. Immediately.
NEWMAN: My ear. I can't hear a thing out of it. I can't believe you did that!
GERARD: You think I should have bargained with him, don't you?
NEWMAN: Yes. You could've missed! You could've killed me!
GERARD: Yeah, you're absolutely right. I They hold a look.
GERARD: How bad's your ear?
NEWMAN: Terrible. I probably have permanent hearing damage.
GERARD: Let me see it. Newman leans toward him. Gerard speaks into his ear.
GERARD: I don't bargain. Gerard leaves. Newman watches him - realizing what a truly unsettling man Gerard is.
KIMBLE: Walter. It's Richard.
GUTHERIE: Richard. Jesus, why did you run? Running only makes you look guilty.
KIMBLE: I wasn't worrying about appearances, Tell me where you are. I'll come meet you so you can turn yourself in .
GUTHERIE: Tell me where you are. I'll come meet you so you can turn yourself in .
KIMBLE: I'm not turning myself in. I need Gutherie is silent. When he speaks again his speech takes on the lawyerly tone of a man who's covering his own bases.
GUTHERIE: Richard. You're asking me to harbor and aid a convicted felon. I can't help you that way. My advice - both as a friend and as your legal counsel - is for you to give yourself up. Now tell me. where are you? Kimble picks up the change in his attorney's tone.
KIMBLE: ( beat ) St. Louis.
GUTHERIE: Give me an address. I'll be - CLICK. Gutherie hears the LINE GO DEAD. Kimble's gone.
DESK ATTENDANT: See you tomorrow, Dr. Nichols?
NICHOLS: Creature of habit, Sharon.
NICHOLS: Not today, please. The man shuffles off. Just then a second man appears at his passenger window. He leans down to wave him away
NICHOLS: No. Not - . then stops - the face at his passenger window is Richard Kimble's.
NICHOLS: ( stunned ) Oh, my God. Richard. Nichols rolls down the passenger window.
KIMBLE: How're you doing, Charlie?
NICHOLS: You're alive.
KIMBLE: Yeah. And I need your help.
NICHOLS: I need some money. Whatever you've got on you.
KIMBLE: I need some money. Whatever you've got on you.
NICHOLS: Of course.
NICHOLS: Tell me where you're staying. I'll get you more money. Some clothes. Just give me an address.
KIMBLE: I'll call you. Kimble glances around, the area is still clear. He looks back into the car and doesn't see the police car turn the corner and come up the street behind them. Nichols finds his wallet ant hands all the cash he's got to Kimble, who quickly pockets it.
NICHOLS: I know why you came back - to find him. If I can help, call me. Call me. They hold a look. The stoplight changes to green but they don't see it.
KIMBLE: Thanks, Charlie.
NICHOLS: Here, Richard, take my coat. He reaches into the back for his coat, suddenly police car behind him POPS its SIREN. Nichols looks into his rearview mirror. Sees a COP lean out his window.
COP: ( to Nichols ) Hey, buddy - green light. Let's go. Nichols looks back at Kimble. He's gone.
POOLE: We've alerted St. Louis P.D
GERARD: Call them back. Tell them you've made a mistake.
POOLE: ( to Renfro ) Stop it there. Renfro hits play. Kimble's VOICE is heard again:
GERARD: ( to Renfro ) Stop it there. Renfro hits play. Kimble's VOICE is heard again:
GERARD: Drop the voices. Renfro removes the two voices. What comes up are the
GERARD: ( he's heard something ) Trains? Traffic?
BIGGS: Trains? Traffic?
GERARD: More. there's a voice in the At first the sound is unrecognizable. A BELL. GRINDING MECHANICAL. Then a P.A. VOICE on the tape: "Next stop Merchandise Mart."
RENFRO: That's an El announcement.
GERARD: And there's no E1 in St. Louis. Ladies and gentlemen, Richard Kimble is in Chicago. Poole, get his artwork out to local police and have C.P.D. check the shelters. Biggs, bring in the detectives that handled his case. Instantly the room is in movement.
STEVENS: I'll prepare the press release.
GERARD: Stevens stops.
GERARD: They don't know he's alive and as far as Kimble knows we don't either. I want to keep it that way as long as we can. Are we clear? The whole group sense Gerard's intensity in regard to Gerard reflects on a moment of personal satisfaction.
RENFRO: ( for the group ) Gerard reflects on a moment of personal satisfaction.
GERARD: Noah. go to my office and let's officially take Dr. Kimble out of CUT TO: INT. 11TH STREET STATION - DAY Morning roll call. Kimble's photo distributed to cops by Detectives Kelly and Rosetti.
KELLY: Police units have also increased patrols around homeless shelters and mass transit stations in the city.
FLYNN: I ran his office for twelve years. Yes, we were very close. But he wouldn't come to me for help.
PATIENT: Good morning.
KIMBLE: Good morning. As he turns to leave we hear:
ROBERTS: R.K.'s one smart, cold sonofabitch. He did her, no question.
GERARD: Gentlemen, I appreciate the cooperation of the Chicago police. He moves toward them.
SALESMAN: Did you say, 38/34?
KIMBLE: No. 34/34.
RENFRO: Was there anything in your initial investigation that would make you think Kimble would come back to The man definitely has friends here.
ROSSETTI: The man definitely has friends here.
GERARD: What about lady friends?
KELLY: Not that we found.
KELLY: Right. You ever been downwind of a stockyard when the breeze is blowing? That's where we were sitting when Richard Kimble told that CUT TO: EXT. POLISH LADY'S APARTMENT - DAY Kimble knocks at door. It is opened to reveal a PUNK KID, 18-20. He calls to someone O.S.
ON GERARD: He raises an eyebrow.
NICHOLS: He stopped me in my car. I gave him some money.
GERARD: Where was this?
NICHOLS: Outside our tennis - Gerard moves around Nichols' office taking in the details.
GERARD: Did he ask you for help?
NICHOLS: I volunteered. He wouldn't accept Why do you think he came back to He didn't tell me.
GERARD: Why do you think he came back to He didn't tell me.
NICHOLS: He didn't tell me.
GERARD: I didn't ask you that, sir. I'm sure he was trying to protect you from having to lie for him. Gerard continues to move around the room, study prints, books, drawings, awards and photos.
GERARD: If you're really his friend, you'll help us bring him in unharmed.
NICHOLS: Why, so he can go back to prison? If you want help, gentlemen, you've come to the wrong man. Gerard finds a photo of Nichols and a gleaming Ferrari.
GERARD: Dr. Nichols, last year the U.S. Marshals' office closed out 11,003 warrants. 10,975 of those were captured. The twenty-eight others thought they were smarter than us. Now they're dead. Nice car. Gerard puts the photo down.
GERARD: Stay on him.
WOMAN DOCTOR: Where's Rudy?
KIMBLE: They said he's sick.
WOMAN DOCTOR: Didn't they tell you to put up the Uhhh. No they didn't.
KIMBLE: Uhhh. No they didn't.
WOMAN DOCTOR: Put up the 'wet floor' sign before someone gets hurt. She keeps going.
KIMBLE: ( mumbles ) She looks back at Kimble.
WOMAN DOCTOR: What did you say?
KIMBLE: Anne keeps moving off toward trauma hall. He watches her turn the corner to the trauma hallway.
TECHNICIAN: Sorry, I thought you were Ricky.
KIMBLE: ( stumbling ) No. I've got to clean the blinds in the office. Want me to wait till you're finished?
TECHNICIAN: Naw. I'm going to be here all night. You won't bother me. She slips on a pair of headphones and goes back to work.
KIMBLE: You find that sign?
ANNE: You find that sign?
KIMBLE: Yes, I did.
ANNE: You called me an asshole.
KIMBLE: Excuse me. I was having a bad They laugh. They reach ground level and step out together.
ANNE: You worked at other hospitals?
KIMBLE: Lots of them over the years. Here, long ago. Hasn't changed much.
ANNE: I bet it hasn't. See you. They part ways. Kimble continues out the door. Anne stops and watches him leave.
KIMBLE'S POV: Unmarked police cars in front of the house, looking, moving his way.
KIMBLE: Moves toward the front window and watches cops lead the Punk Kid out to the car. POLICE RADIOS call the other cops to stand down. Kimble moves slowly to his front door. Looks out.
KIMBLE'S POV: Cops put the young man into an unmarked police car. His grandmother, the Polish woman, follows them, crying.
KIMBLE'S POV: Two cops talk outside the Prosthetic Clinic.
KID'S POV: A wanted poster of Kimble over the cop's head.
PUNK KID: ( to cop ) Hey. Hey! I know that guy! The cop looks up, sees Kimble's poster and then back at the CUT TO: INT. TRAUMA HALLWAY - NIGHT Kimble moves toward prosthetic clinic. In passing through the trauma hallway he becomes aware of a crisis developing. A major accident has happened, victims are being brought in. The P.A. CALLS for doctors. STATIC.
ANNE: What happened?
ORDERLY: A bus flipped off the overpass. Got at least twenty more coming in.
ANNE: What about this one here?
ORDERLY: Fractured sternum. X-ray's coming Anne checks the boy's chart.
ANNE: Okay, we've got to get some room in this hallway, people. Orderlies quickly move the non-life-threatening patients out of the hall. Still more help is needed. Anne spots Kimble.
ANNE: Hey, take this one up the hall to Critical Care. Kimble nods. Anne moves to another patient. Kimble grabs the kid's gurney and begins wheeling it up the hall. As he pushes he looks at the kid's X-rays. Anne looks up, barks another order, then suddenly sees Kimble pushing the gurney and looking at the film.
ANNE: Tries to negotiate through the incoming patients to get a better look, but Kimble is gone. She goes back to work.
ON KIMBLE: He wheels the Boy's gurney into an elevator. The doors INT. HOSPITAL - O.R. CORRIDOR - NIGHT Kimble wheels the gurney down the hall and stops the Boy on the scrub threshold to the O.R. and stops a SURGEON.
KIMBLE: Hey. Hey! A Surgeon pauses and eyes Kimble's janitor suit and the They just sent this one up. He takes a look at the Boy's chart and grabs the X-rays and yells to O.R. nurse.
KIMBLE: They just sent this one up. He takes a look at the Boy's chart and grabs the X-rays and yells to O.R. nurse.
SURGEON: Bob! Get this one into room four, He looks up, Kimble is gone.
ANNE: Gladys, where's the boy I sent down with the janitor?
GLADYS: What boy?
ANNE: The one with the fractured sternum.
GLADYS: He never came in here.
KIMBLE: He backs up and tries another file.
ANNE: Dave, did you see a janitor come up here earlier?
SURGEON: Yeah, he brought a kid up. Anne, did you write the orders? I couldn't make out the signature.
ANNE: I saw -
SURGEON: ( in a hurry now ) Whoever did knew what the hell he was doing. Kid's a hair away from a ruptured aorta. He heads to the operating room, leaving her stunned. She stares at the scrawled orders.
KIMBLE: Seventy-five. Hell, yes. Kimble types in another defining characteristic. Residence: Illinois. Again he waits. Rattles the blinds to make it seem like he's cleaning. The list shortens.
KIMBLE: What else?
PROSECUTOR: . murdering Helen Wills Kimble the night of January 20.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Kimble makes notes.
KIMBLE: What do you mean?
ANNE: I saw you looking at that boy's chest film. She moves in on him. He eyes the exit.
KIMBLE: It's a hobby of mine -
ANNE: What other hobbies do you have? Brain surgery?
KIMBLE: What do you want? She reaches him.
ANNE: I want to know how that kid ended up in surgery.
KIMBLE: I'm a janitor. I did what I was Bullshit. Who changed those orders? They hold a look. She knows. He takes a step back and she pulls his I.D.
ANNE: Bullshit. Who changed those orders? They hold a look. She knows. He takes a step back and she pulls his I.D.
ANNE: You stand right here. I'm calling Kimble runs. Anne turns to call security but doesn't. She stares after Kimble.
GERARD: A man posing as a janitor orders an emergency operation and all you do is pull his I.D.?
ANNE: ( firmly ) A little boy's alive today because he did something. Gerard watches her eyes carefully.
GERARD: So, you weren't aware that when he escaped he was being transported to Menard State Prison to begin a term of life imprisonment.
ANNE: For what?
GERARD: For murdering his wife. Clearly this is news to Anne. Gerard almost smiles at her Thank you for your help, Doctor. He moves to the position Anne saw Kimble with the kid's gurney. Trying to imagine what Kimble was doing at that place. Renfro and the other deputies converge.
GERARD: Thank you for your help, Doctor. He moves to the position Anne saw Kimble with the kid's gurney. Trying to imagine what Kimble was doing at that place. Renfro and the other deputies converge.
RENFRO: What I can't figure is, if you were Kimble, why'd you take a major league chance of hanging around a trauma ward? Gerard considers this as a Man passes him. Gerard notices The place would be crawling with cops. Slowly Gerard separates from the group of deputies and follows the Man down the hall. The Man Gerard is following turns the corner to the Prosthetic hallway and realizing Gerard is following him, holds the hallway door open for Gerard.
RENFRO: The place would be crawling with cops. Slowly Gerard separates from the group of deputies and follows the Man down the hall. The Man Gerard is following turns the corner to the Prosthetic hallway and realizing Gerard is following him, holds the hallway door open for Gerard.
MAN: Can I help you find something?
GERARD: Thank you, sir, I think you already We see the Man has a prosthetic arm and that they are outside the door marked: "PROSTHETIC CLINIC"
KIMBLE: Yes. This is Dr. Elway at Cook County. I'm doing follow-up work for the Prosthetic Clinic on Matthew He did. I'm terribly sorry. No, I'll correct our files. Thank you. He scratches through another name. Three left. He dials another number.
GERARD: The onearmed man. Missing the right or left hand?
POOLE: The operator enters that information. Dropping the number to 250. as Poole continues.
POOLE: . age 35-45.
GERARD: Location of the attachment.
POOLE: ( from the report ) INT. PHONE BOOTH - CLOSE ON KIMBLE'S LIST - DAY The next name is "Clive Driscoll." Kimble on phone, waits for answer.
KIMBLE: No kidding?. Armed robbery. He's where?
RENFRO: It could take us a week to track down every one of those names. Gerard picks up phone and dials a number.
GERARD: ( into phone ) Stevens. I've got a list of names I want searched for criminal history.
ELEVATOR COP: ( catching door ) Comin' or not? Forcing his feet to move, Kimble boards.
COPS: Aw, shit. Not now. Anybody bring a deck of cards? Abruptly they're moving again. Kimble's heart restarts with the elevator.
CLEARING OFFICER: ( to visitor ) Booth Three. No hands on the glass. Five minutes maximum. Be advised that under a Federal court ruling your conversation can be recorded. Next. "Next" is Kimble. He steps to the counter.
CLEARING OFFICER: Name of inmate?
KIMBLE: Clive Driscoll. The Clearing Officer spins his clipboard around.
CLEARING OFFICER: Sign here, print your name, address, and relationship to inmate below. Two-zero-ten. Driscoll, Clive R. Be about five minutes. You can wait in the hall.
GERARD: ( to clerk ) We need to see a prisoner.
DESK CLERK: Fifth floor. Gerard and Biggs head for the bank of elevators.
BIGGS: It's hinky. Man risks everything to find a man his own investigators say doesn't exist. Something's really hinky about this thing. Gerard looks at Biggs as they reach the elevators.
GERARD: I hate that word. He hits the up button.
CLEARING OFFICER: Visitor for Driscoll.? Kimble is on his feet.
CLEARING OFFICER: Booth seven. No hands on the glass. Be advised. The Clearing Officer, head down, drones on - doesn't notice Kimble is already gone. Kimble strides down the row of chairs, rounds the last partition to reach booth seven - and to stare at the one-armed man, DRISCOLL, who waits there.
DRISCOLL: So who are you?
KIMBLE: Sorry. I made a mistake.
DRISCOLL: Shit, that's okay. Stick around a few minutes, talk about whatever you But Kimble is gone. Driscoll calls after him.
DRISCOLL: . They're not exactly wired for cable downstairs, y'know?
"STAIRS": INT. FEDERAL LOCKUP - LOBBY - DAY Biggs and Gerard wait for the elevator. Finally Gerard's had enough.
GERARD: Where're the damn stairs?
BIGGS: It's five flights!
GERARD: Then you wait. He finds the door and starts up.
GERARD: Climbing the stairs. He reaches a landing - and skims shoulders with Kimble, who pivots past on his way down. Amazingly, neither man reacts. Not yet. One flight above, Gerard's subconscious taps him on the shoulder and brings him to a dead stop. He leans over the stairwell railing to spy. Kimble spiraling downward. From this vantage, it could be any dark-haired man. But still.
GERARD: ( a quick probe ) Others look up out of curiosity. but not Kimble. Two landings below, he falters a step, then tries to regain his step, keeps moving. But Gerard is pulling his Glock: The hitch in Kimble's stride told him everything.
GERARD: Kimble blitzes down the stairs. Gerard moves after him.
KIMBLE: Officers - there's a man in the stairwell waving a gun and The two cops rush to stairs and Kimble immediately moves toward the doors, fast but not running. Hoping to cloak himself in civilians.
GERARD: U.S. Marshal! Get on the phone, call your commander, tell him there's a top-fifteen warrant in the building. He shoves the cops out of the way and pounds downstairs.
GERARD: Bursts out the stairwell door after Kimble.
GERARD: Kimble. Stop! But there's only one way of stopping Kimble.
KIMBLE: Enters the revolving doors as a big man enters from the outside. The big man sizes up the situation, realizes Kimble is fleeing and just before Kimble exits - yanks on the door - trapping him partially inside the revolving door. Other doors seal electronically. Biggs charges back, sees Kimble fights the heavy glass door. The big man resists - but slowly the crack widens. Gerard bulls through the crowd, shoves a man out of his line of fire.
GERARD: Down. down. everybody down! With adrenal effort, Kimble wrings his body through the EXT. FEDERAL LOCKUP - DAY . and makes it outside - except for his foot - caught like in a bear trap, as the door locks down. Harrowed, Kimble looks back over his shoulder at. Gerard. Charging the glass doors. Civilians suck marble and clear out of Gerard's line of fire on Kimble. Gerard takes aim.
GERARD: Kimble. Stop! It's Kimble's nightmare coming true. If he could chew off his leg right now, he would. He pulls at his foot just as
GERARD: Open the doors! Gerard pounds against the doors. Sees cratering in the glass - and then sees flattened slugs all over the floor. It's bullet-proof glass. THROUGH the glass he sees Kimble rush across the street and disappear into the parade. Doors open and Gerard and his men follow. But Kimble has disappeared into the parade celebrations outside. Blending in with the marchers.
HALLWAY: Moving first toward the living room. The apartment is He stops by a photograph of a teenage girl. Another is a boy in football uniform. The next one is a man in a police uniform. Kimble freezes.
NICHOLS: Richard. Alex Lentz.
KIMBLE: Looks up. He's found the man he's looking for but also a new possibility - that the murder wasn't just a random act of Kimble digs through Sykes' top desk drawer. His mind reeling. He stops:
SECRETARY: U.S. Marshal's office. Her expression changes to shock.
SECRETARY: It' 9 Kimble on line three. Gerard moves quickly down the hall, mobilizing his troops as he runs.
GERARD: Renfro, Biggs. They follow him into.
GERARD: This is Gerard.
GERARD: You told me, you didn't kill your INTERCUT WITH: INT. SYKES' APARTMENT - CLOSE ON KIMBLE - MORNING Remember what you said to me?
KIMBLE: Remember what you said to me?
GERARD: I remember you were pointing my gun at me.
TECHNICIAN: ( a whisper ) He's on the southside.
ON GERARD: That's right, Kimble. I'm not trying to solve a puzzle here. I'm just the poor working man that's paid to hunt you down. The room is filling up with deputies. Poole, Biggs, Stevens, Newman. Gerard watches the numbers as the second digit locks in.
GERARD: That's right, Kimble. I'm not trying to solve a puzzle here. I'm just the poor working man that's paid to hunt you down. The room is filling up with deputies. Poole, Biggs, Stevens, Newman. Gerard watches the numbers as the second digit locks in.
RENFRO: ( low ) He's in Pullman area. Fifteen seconds for location.
KIMBLE: Well, I am trying to solve the puzzle, Gerard and I just found a Kimble takes the phone and bangs it down onto a table and we realize he is in Sykes' kitchen.
TECHNICIAN: Three seconds.
GERARD: ( into phone ) You can't control this thing, Kimble. Kimble? He thinks he hears FOOTSTEPS over the phone, realizes Kimble has not hung up. What's Kimble doing?
GERARD: ( to Renfro ) Where is he? Renfro looks up from the address to Gerard, stunned.
RENFRO: ( incredulous ) Holy shit. We've got a car there right now. He picks up a phone.
KIMBLE: This an R.D.U.90 patient? Kimble looks up at the Resident as we.
FORENSIC TECH: Inspector, we're ready for you to look at this. The Forensic Tech sits at desk.
FORENSIC TECH: Kimble's prints are all over the apartment, but the concentration is here. The Tech takes out the check stubs, some papers; the pack of photos.
FORENSIC TECH: He flips through the pack but paused here. He hands the Lentz/Sykes photo.
GERARD: Let me see the negatives. The Tech hands him the strip of negative film. Gerard holds it up to the light.
GERARD: One's missing. Gerard stares at the photo as his RADIO SQUAWKS.
SYKES: What the hell's going on here? Who are you people? He steps.
GERARD: You had a break-in, Mr. Sykes.
SYKES: You a cop?
GERARD: My name is Gerard. U.S. Marshal's Sykes is caught off guard.
GERARD: This morning a fugitive named Richard Kimble made a call from your Sykes is dumbfounded.
SYKES: Richard Kimble. I don't know a Richard Kim - Poole produces a photo of Kimble.
SYKES: Wait a minute. This is the doctor who killed his wife. He claimed the killer had a prosthetic limb. You telling me he's coming after Would he have a reason to?
GERARD: Would he have a reason to?
SYKES: What the hell's that supposed to mean? Because I have this? He lifts his prosthetic arm and stares at Gerard. Gerard holds his look.
SYKES: Look, a year ago some people came to see me. They asked me questions about the night of the murder and I'll tell you the same thing I told them. I wasn't even in town then. I was on a business trip. Gerard continues moving around the apartment.
GERARD: What kind of business are you in, Mr. Sykes?
SYKES: No, I work for a pharmaceutical company. I handle security for its top executives. Gerard holds up one of the fishing photographs with Lentz.
GERARD: No, I work for a pharmaceutical company. I handle security for its top executives. Gerard holds up one of the fishing photographs with Lentz.
SYKES: No, I work for a pharmaceutical company. I handle security for its top executives. Gerard holds up one of the fishing photographs with Lentz.
GERARD: Any idea why Kimble would be interested in these?
SYKES: No. Just some doctors on a company Gerard puts the photos down with the one of Lentz on top. Sykes eyes it.
SYKES: ( annoyed ) Look, you mind if I talk to the cops to see if anything's missing?
GERARD: By all means. Sykes moves off and Gerard pockets the Lentz/Sykes photo.
RENFRO: He's pulling our chain, Sam. If this was the guy Kimble was looking for, why call us?
GERARD: Kimble said he's putting together a puzzle. We don't need to put it together too, we just need to be there when he gets to the next Gerard stops and looks back at Sykes' apartment.
GERARD: Keep somebody on him. If he moves I want to know.
OPERATOR: ( into phone ) I'm sorry sir, Dr. Nichols is at a medical conference at the Hilton.
KIMBLE: It's very important I reach him.
ASSISTANT: I'm sorry, sir, they said it was an Nichols excuses himself from the table.
KIMBLE: ( urgent ) Can you talk?
NICHOLS: ( low ) Richard. Yes. I'm on a hotel phone. What's going on? He eyes the group in the other room, moves around the corner for more privacy. As he does we notice several of the men watching. They exchange glances.
KIMBLE: I found him, Charlie. I found the guy that killed Helen.
NICHOLS: ( shocked ) It's all about a drug, Charlie. They tried to kill me because of a drug.
KIMBLE: It's all about a drug, Charlie. They tried to kill me because of a drug.
NICHOLS: Devlin-MacGregor and Lentz. Lentz was supervising the R.D.U.90 protocol. He knew I'd found out the drug had problems. It's Lentz.
KIMBLE: Devlin-MacGregor and Lentz. Lentz was supervising the R.D.U.90 protocol. He knew I'd found out the drug had problems. It's Lentz.
NICHOLS: Richard, Lentz is dead. He died in an auto accident last summer. Kimble is stunned.
NICHOLS: Can you prove this about the drug?
KIMBLE: I need your help. Call Mr. Roosevelt and tell him I'm coming in.
RENFRO: If you were Richard Kimble. Why would you hunt for a one-armed man you think killed your wife; find hint then leave him and call us?
POOLE: To throw us off his trail.
RENFRO: Unless. What if you were a well respected surgeon and wanted to kill your wife? How would you do it?
BIGGS: I'd hire a pro. Sight unseen.
POOLE: Set it up to look like a robbery gone bad.
RENFRO: How would you find him? Look in the phone book?
RENFRO: Through a connection.
POOLE: Maybe through a company you did some business with.
BIGGS: Like a pharmaceutical company. Someone in security.
NEWMAN: On the night of his wife's murder, Kimble attended a hospital benefit sponsored by Devlin-Macgregor Pharmaceutical - Sykes' company. Gerard places a Devlin-Macgregor card onto his board.
BIGGS: But Sykes claims he was out of town.
POOLE: And company records support that he was on a business trip.
RENFRO: That's an easy fix. So let's say he was in town. Did the job. Everything goes as planned with one problem.
NEWMAN: Instead of looking like a robbery gone bad, Kimble ends up being the one accused.
BIGGS: . tried, convicted.
POOLE: . and the hit man gets away clean.
RENFRO: So Kimble returns to hunt for and find the hit man.
NEWMAN: Why? To share the blame? He'd still go to prison. Gerard moves to the board. He takes down a card.
RENFRO: You're underestimating the power of the good doctor. It would be his word against. Sykes'. Who would you believe?
BIGGS: So what does Kimble do next?
RENFRO: Get help. Gerard pins the card to the board and looks at Renfro. It says: "NICHOLS"
GERARD: Stevens, check phone records for Sykes and Kimble. Gerard moves to the door and Renfro follows. As he's leaving he hands the photo of Lentz and Sykes to Biggs.
GERARD: Find out who this guy is. He leaves. Biggs hands the photo to Newman.
NEWMAN: ( deadpan ) Why do I get all the great jobs?
ROOSEVELT: It sure is good to see you again, Dr. Kimble.
KIMBLE: You too, Roosevelt. Been a long Roosevelt closes the door behind them.
ROOSEVELT: This is the R.D.U.90 file and samples. Dr. Nichols said you Thanks, Roosevelt.
KIMBLE: Thanks, Roosevelt.
SYKES: I want to report a fire; No, it's not my place, it's a couple doors CUT TO: INT. CMH HALLWAY/DR. WAHLUND'S LAB - DAY Kimble moves down hall and quietly enters a small research lab in the university. Dr. Wahlund sits behind her microscope and doesn't see him until he touches her on the shoulder.
WAHLUND: ( startled ) Oh, my God. Richard.
KIMBLE: I loaned you something once, Kath, and I need them back.
NICHOLS: Mr. Gerard.
GERARD: Doctor. Could I have a minute? He opens the door to an empty meeting room.
RENFRO: He's a security specialist at Devlin-Macgregor Pharmaceuticals. Kimble broke into his apartment.
NICHOLS: I don't know him. You're getting pretty desperate aren't you, Mr. Gerard. I told you, you wouldn't find Richard.
GERARD: ( beat ) Dr. Kimble hasn't come back to you for help, has he?
NICHOLS: No. And it seems like we've been over this ground before. Now if you'll excuse me. Nichols moves to the door. Gerard looks again at the photo, then stops him.
GERARD: Dr. Nichols. Do you know the other man in the photograph? Nichols stops, looks at Lentz and lies.
NICHOLS: I never saw him before. He leaves. Gerard watches him. Renfro looks down and sees flyer which says Nichols is slated to talk that evening in the grand ballroom.
RENFRO: ( reads ) "Advances in Nuclear Tissue and Pathology Research," by Dr. Charles ( to Gerard ) I bet they line up to hear that one.
ON WAHLUND: She works the fluorescent stains. Makes notes. Kimble helps load the next sample.
KIMBLE: Half the people in the study were indigents. No follow-up, no baseline on them. Who could say they didn't come into the study with bad livers?
WAHLUND: The one on the right is one of the samples you sent me. It shows a lot of perriportal inflammation loaded with eosinophils. When you see that with the accumulation of bile it's a classic for -
KIMBLE: - drug induced hepatitis.
WAHLUND: I'm impressed. Now look at this. She positions a second slide.
WAHLUND: According to the study, this is a slice from the same liver. Kimble studies the slide. The tissue difference is markedly different, clearer.
KIMBLE: Cold normal.
WAHLUND: Clearly not from the same tissue. In fact. She yields the microscope to Kimble.
WAHLUND: See this small area of bile duct proliferation? Von Meyenberg's Complex. Occurs in only 2% of the population. But it's in every one of your five samples. Kimble looks up.
KIMBLE: That's statistically impossible.
WAHLUND: That's because they're all from the same liver. She smiles at Kimble.
BETTY: His name's Lentz. A pathologist. I only remember him because he died last summer. Biggs and Newman exchange a look.
NEWMAN: Anybody down in pathology who might know something about the guy? Betty looks at the clock, it's after 6 p.m. Dicey.
BETTY: It's kinda late to catch anyone, but you might go by the morgue. There's an old guy down there who's been around forever.
BIGGS: Just what I want to do before INT. CHICAGO MEMORIAL MORGUE - DAY Roosevelt working near the autopsy tables when the two marshals enter.
NEWMAN: Are you Mr. Roosevelt?
ROOSEVELT: We're United States Marshals. We're trying to find out some information about a pathologist, named Lentz. He used to be on staff here. Roosevelt suddenly goes on the defensive.
BIGGS: We're United States Marshals. We're trying to find out some information about a pathologist, named Lentz. He used to be on staff here. Roosevelt suddenly goes on the defensive.
ROOSEVELT: He's dead.
NEWMAN: Yeah, we heard. We wanted to know if he knew or had any contact with Dr. Richard Kimble? On the mention of Kimble, Roosevelt becomes visibly nervous.
ROOSEVELT: I. I haven't seen Dr. Kimble. Biggs and Newman exchange a look.
NEWMAN: ( a probe ) That's not what I asked, sir. I just wanted to know if Dr. Kimble and Dr. Lentz knew each other?
ROOSEVELT: I. I don't know. Excuse me, I got to go. He moves away from the autopsy table. Biggs stops him.
BIGGS: I think you're lying to us. Roosevelt looks from one marshal to the other as we:
KIMBLE: They'd be home free if I hadn't been leaning on them to account for the livers I was seeing. And I wouldn't have seen the livers if I hadn't told the guys on my service to call me when they had cases that were bleeding excessively in surgery.
WAHLUND: Big bucks. One schmuck standing in the way. Easy, get rid of him and his wife. But why Lentz?
KIMBLE: Why not? He's one of the original patent holders. Toss the samples I sent, replace them with healthy samples, issue the path report on the healthy stuff-piece of cake. Kimble notices something in the report.
KIMBLE: When did Lentz die?
WAHLUND: Oh, last summer sometime. August. Kimble looks up from the protocol report.
KIMBLE: Because a good third of the samples Lentz approved were signed after he Kathy comes to look at the report. Lentz's signature is on reports dated October, November, December.
KIMBLE: Someone else used Lentz's name.
WAHLUND: A pathologist at Devlin-Macgregor?
KIMBLE: They wouldn't have had the access. They would have needed someone at the hospital. Kimble opens the Devlin-Macgregor prospectus he took from the medical library and opens it to the beginning. A photo gets his attention. He takes the bag and starts for the door.
WAHLUND: Where are you going?
KIMBLE: To see an old friend.
POOLE: It's Newman. Line two.
NEWMAN: The old guy didn't know where he was going. But he picked up some tissue Tissue samples? Gerard goes to his board. Renfro listens on the speakerphone.
GERARD: Tissue samples? Gerard goes to his board. Renfro listens on the speakerphone.
NEWMAN: . From a drug study. And signed for by Dr. Charles Nichols. Renfro and Gerard exchange a look.
NEWMAN: Nichols also knew Lentz. He was a He was covering for Kimble.
RENFRO: He was covering for Kimble.
GERARD: ( to Renfro ) Get CPD to bring in Sykes. Gerard stares at the board.
HOST: Tonight to close our conference, we're honored to hear a report from one of the most respected men in his field.
HOST: . He is the A. Jude Robinson Fellow and Administrative Chief of Pathology at Chicago Memorial Hospital. and just recently has been appointed member of the board of directors for Devlin-Macgregor Pharmaceuticals. Please welcome. . and STOP ON Charles Nichols.
HOST: . Dr. Charles Nichols. Nichols rises to applause and moves to the podium.
STEVENS: I checked Sykes' calls for the last two years against Kimble's like you asked and found nothing.
GERARD: All right. It was a thought. He goes back to the board but Stevens isn't finished.
STEVENS: But when I cross-checked Kimble's phone records. one came up. Gerard looks up.
GERARD: Kimble called Sykes. Renfro! Get C.P.D. to bring in Sykes!
STEVENS: Night of his wife's murder - seven-thirty in the evening from his car. Gerard stares at the deputy, thinking - something doesn't click. Stevens sees the empty stare, then Gerard looks back at his board.
STEVENS: I have the phone record right here.
GERARD: ( calling ) Poole! Bring me Kimble's arrest report, now. ( to Stevens ) No, Stevens. I believe you. Poole enters with Kimble's arrest transcript. Gerard takes the transcript as Renfro appears at the door.
POOLE: Sam, C.P.D. just checked Sykes' apartment. He's not there. As Gerard looks up, we -
SYKES: Back up. Move to the door, Doc.
TRANSIT COP: ( to radio ) This is transit unit, 23. I have a possible sighting of Richard Kimble. Northbound coming into the Balbo station. Request immediate back-up at the station. He moves toward the connecting door to Kimble's car.
SYKES: This is my stop, Doc. Kimble stares hard at Sykes. He steps toward the side Good, it's my stop, too. Suddenly the door behind Sykes opens and the Transit Cop Sir, move away from him. Sykes - the gun tucked next to his side - turns. The Cop sees Sykes' gun, reacts. But Sykes FIRES first, shoots the cop FOUR TIMES. As the Cop falls, Sykes turns quickly to finish Kimble. But Kimble pulls the emergency brake over the door.
KIMBLE: Good, it's my stop, too. Suddenly the door behind Sykes opens and the Transit Cop Sir, move away from him. Sykes - the gun tucked next to his side - turns. The Cop sees Sykes' gun, reacts. But Sykes FIRES first, shoots the cop FOUR TIMES. As the Cop falls, Sykes turns quickly to finish Kimble. But Kimble pulls the emergency brake over the door.
TRANSIT COP: ( to Sykes ) Sir, move away from him. Sykes - the gun tucked next to his side - turns. The Cop sees Sykes' gun, reacts. But Sykes FIRES first, shoots the cop FOUR TIMES. As the Cop falls, Sykes turns quickly to finish Kimble. But Kimble pulls the emergency brake over the door.
SYKES: Go ahead. You don't have it in you . For a moment Kimble almost fires, but instead he takes the gun in his right hand and whips it across Sykes' face. Then hits Sykes again and again with the butt of the gun, driving him down the length of the car, knocking him almost Kimble tucks the gun in his belt and moves to the Transit Cop. He checks for a pulse - there is none. The Cop is dead. Kimble takes the handcuffs and keys from the case on the Cop's belt. He reaches for Sykes' wrist, drags him to the Cop and cuffs Sykes to the dead Cop. He pockets the keys and grabs Sykes' hair, pulls his face off the floor.
KIMBLE: Not as easy as Helen, was it? You missed your stop. He moves to the front of the car with Sykes' and the Transit Cop's guns out. People back out of his way. He moves to where the first two windows extend over the platform, kicks out the front window and.
RENFRO: Balbo station. That's -
GERARD: ( cutting him off ) Poole, get Biggs and Newman. They're gone as we -
GERARD: ( quietly to himself ) INT. HOTEL - MALL LEVEL / LOBBY - NIGHT Kimble moves up escalators from the underground station into the Hilton.
NEWMAN: C.P.D. just reported -
GERARD: I heard. Was it Kimble?
BIGGS: Conflicting reports, but the cops are considering him a shooter. Heavily-armed CPD units pull up. Gerard stares at the police presence. He starts toward the hotel where Kelly is conferring with Kevlar-decked police captain.
POLICE CAPTAIN: Witnesses say he entered hotel from the subway.
KELLY: Okay. I want it locked down. Start on the lower levels. The captain moves off. Gerard intercepts the cop.
GERARD: That's my man in there, Kelly.
KELLY: Not since he took down one of ours, Gerard. This is a police matter, now. Stay, the hell, out of it. Kelly moves off. Gerard watches him a moment then he looks up to the roof. Newman hands Gerard his belt with his backup piece.
GERARD: C'mon, I know where he's going. He moves into the hotel with his deputies.
NICHOLS: . And I especially would like to thank my researchers who helped me. Nichols stops his speech - stunned to see Kimble.
NICHOLS: What's wrong, Charlie? Surprised? Kimble begins moving down the aisle past the tables of doctors toward the podium. We see the faces of Kimble's colleagues and friends from the ballroom sequence earlier. At first no one notices Kimble but as he makes his way toward the dais, the applause fades and then room quiets. Whispers of:
KIMBLE: What's wrong, Charlie? Surprised? Kimble begins moving down the aisle past the tables of doctors toward the podium. We see the faces of Kimble's colleagues and friends from the ballroom sequence earlier. At first no one notices Kimble but as he makes his way toward the dais, the applause fades and then room quiets. Whispers of:
CROWD: It's Richard. It's Kimble. Stunned expressions. Kimble continues to the front, talking to Nichols as if the room were empty.
KIMBLE: After Lentz died, you were the only one that had access to the pathology reports. Nichols remains calm.
NICHOLS: Reports? What are you?
KIMBLE: You switched the samples and falsified the reports so R.D.U.90 could get approval.
NICHOLS: Richard, I don't know what you're talking about?.
KIMBLE: I have a set of the original Nichols stares at Kimble and for the first time we see a flicker of concern.
KIMBLE: You almost pulled it off, Charlie. But I know all about it now, and I can prove it. Nichols and Kimble hold a look. Nichols turns to the audience.
KIMBLE: Ladies and gentlemen. My friend, as you can see, is obviously not well. Richard, if you want to talk -
KIMBLE: I didn't come here to talk Nichols leaves the dais and heads toward the exit. Kimble tracks along with him - moving through the tables - passing the table with the Devlin-MacGregor board of directors. They are disturbed by this situation.
ON NICHOLS: Moves through a door and exits into.
HALLWAY: Kimble follows moving through the tables and people to reach the door. As soon as he's gone there are calls for "security." Doctors move for the exits.
BIGGS: C.P.D. has the perimeter, hotel security has the parking structure.
GERARD: Let them keep busy down below. Newman, get with security. See if you can locate Kimble from the monitors. Keep in radio contact. Newman branches off to Hotel Security. The rest follow Gerard to the rooftop elevators.
HOSPITALITY SUITE: . and is immediately smashed with a chair by Nichols. Kimble goes flying, stunned. Nichols locks the door.
NICHOLS: Your best quality, Richard, is that you don't give up - Nichols pulls Kimble to his feet.
NICHOLS: . even when it's clearly in your best interest to. He hits him again, drives him back into the library. Kimble tries to recover as Nichols relentlessly stays on him. He pulls him up, slams him against the fire escape I always knew that I'd have to kill He drives a blow into Kimble's stomach.
NICHOLS: I always knew that I'd have to kill He drives a blow into Kimble's stomach.
NICHOLS: Now, I must thank you for giving me 200 witnesses tonight who will support me. when I tell them it was self-defense. He shoves Kimble through the door out into.
KIMBLE: You missed your chance, Charlie. Nichols charges Kimble, but Kimble drives him back with two crushing blows that send Nichols down the stairs. Kimble moves down the stairs after him - passing under a security camera.
NEWMAN: ( to radio ) I've got Kimble on the roof with Nichols. Southeast exit.
BIGGS: ( to radio ) Keep and eye on him. Biggs has roof plans.
BIGGS: There are four exits to the roof.
GERARD: I want them covered.
KIMBLE: You took everything away from me. for money.
GERARD: This way.
KIMBLE: I want to know, Charlie. was it worth it.?
NICHOLS: This thing is bigger than even you think, Richard. You can't stop it. He hits Nichols again with tremendous force, knocking him against the parapet. Nichols stares over the edge - the street appears far below.
GERARD: ( to doctors ) Clear the hallway. ( to security ) Get that door open. The door opens and Gerard moves quickly through the hospitality suite for the rooftop.
GERARD: ( to security ) Stay at this door. He moves through the door to the roof alone.
KELLY: Bring him down.
ON GERARD: Gerard hits the bottom of the fire escape and follows.
GERARD: ( to radio ) This is a United States Marshal. Get that helicopter out of here!
RENFRO: There is a U.S. Marshal out there. Hold your fire!
HELICOPTER'S POV: FOLLOWING Kimble. Its beam tracking Kimble across the rooftop. He moves through the blowers and duct work. Kimble is gaining ground on Nichols.
ON SHARPSHOOTER: He is about to fire when he hears through his radio.
KIMBLE: Who slams Nichols hard against the glass. The WIRED GLASS CRACKS and bellies with the form of their bodies. Nichols' head rocks from the impact. The GLASS GROANS. The wire stresses. The caulking begins to drop. Nichols struggles but Kimble has him in control. Slams him down hard again.
HELICOPTER: Circles, illuminates the struggle in its spotlight and Gerard closing.
GERARD: Pulls up.
GERARD: Kimble slams Nichols one more time against the glass and the wire holding the glass gives way, sending Kimble and Nichols into.
GERARD'S POV: Kimble's car disappears into the darkness.
GERARD: ( to radio ) Where did the elevator stop?
NEWMAN: ( to radio ) Level five.
KIMBLE: Notices the swinging bags, follows Nichols' trail. He stops to get his bearings, sees shadow at the far end of the room between the two washers. Kimble closes in, moving between the large conveyors.
GERARD: Get out of here. He and Renfro move around the corner where a laundry worker is hooking a 500 lb bag of lines onto the overhead rail. A hydraulic lift, operated by a hanging on/off switch raises the bag on a yellow steel I-beam. The worker takes one look at Gerard and abandons his station. Gerard, Biggs and Renfro move to the closed doors of the main room.
GERARD: ( to Renfro ) We're going in. Give me five minutes. Keep C.P.D. out. He draws his Glock, opens the door and enters the main INT. LAUNDRY - ON KIMBLE - NIGHT He moves to end of washers, using the machines as cover. He sees the shadow again takes a pole leaning against the dryer as a weapon, turns the corner and is about to belt him when he realizes it's not Nichols, but a laundry worker. Kimble moves away from the terrified man, when he hears a voice from the other end of the laundry.
ON NICHOLS: Moving behind machinery, sees light at far end of the room where Gerard enters.
ON GERARD: The door closes automatically behind Gerard and Renfro. They enter the noisy main room and separate. Renfro moves up the far side of the room, Gerard up the center. Both move slowly through the maze of bags, carts, automated The building is locked down.
GERARD: . There is no way out of here. The building is locked down.
KIMBLE: Moves instinctively back into the machinery and carts near the conveyor belts.
ON GERARD: . Nichols borrowed your car the night of the murder and called Sykes from it.
GERARD: . Nichols borrowed your car the night of the murder and called Sykes from it.
RENFRO: Separated from Gerard. He hears a NOISE behind him - a bag comes down the track at break-neck speed, Renfro spins, dodges it, gets his bearings and continues.
KIMBLE: Listening. He watches the movement of bags as he did with Moving through the forest of massive bags.
GERARD: Moving through the forest of massive bags.
GERARD: . That's why there was no forced entry at your house. He'd used your Realizing what Gerard knows. Considering his next move.
KIMBLE: Realizing what Gerard knows. Considering his next move.
NICHOLS: Also listening. He realizes Gerard now knows he's the killer. He moves behind the water softener tanks and chemicals - and spots Renfro - and something else -the hanging control for the I-beam.
GERARD: Moves carefully. Another bag comes down the track. He dodges it and steps into an open track. From here he can see straight back toward the washers.
GERARD: Kimble. Come meet me out here.
ON RENFRO: He steps out and then back as a bag shoots by. He ducks under the bag - into the next track and suddenly hears a WHIRRING sound behind him. Renfro turns as an I-beam comes rushing down the open track and knocks him to the floor, opening a gash across the side of his head. He lays still.
NICHOLS: Steps out of the shadows, turns him over exposing his empty shoulder harness and takes the gun from Renfro's hand. Nichols moves toward Gerard with the gun.
GERARD: Oblivious to this action, moves on, passes the conveyor belts. He makes one last appeal.
GERARD: It's time to quit running. if you don't, you know I'll stop you. He listens, there is no answer.
KIMBLE: Starts to move out to meet Gerard, sees Renfro down. His shoulder harness is empty. He knows Nichols is armed.
GERARD: Moves into the alley between the two giant washers. He pauses, looks back, then continues, when he turns his back on us.
NICHOLS: Steps INTO FRAME behind him and slowly takes aim. Just before he fires however he hears.
GERARD: Turns on the sound and finds his gun trained on Kimble with Nichols at his feet, unconscious. He realizes instantly that Kimble saved his life and lowers his gun. Kimble, exhausted, leans against the washer. They hold a look as deputies and police flood into the room surrounding Kimble and handcuffing him.
ANOTHER REPORTER: . there are unconfirmed reports from police of new evidence which may exonerate Kimble while implicating some of the biggest names in medicine. The doors to the police van close amid a flurry of A third reporter interviews a STUNNED DOCTOR from the He just walked in. We didn't know what he was going to do. My wife was very frightened. The next thing I knew cops were charging in CUT TO: INT. HOTEL - NIGHT Kimble, in handcuffs, is escorted by Biggs, Newman, Poole and Gerard, out of the hotel into the waiting chaos. Renfro, his head bandaged, is helped by paramedics.
STUNNED DOCTOR: He just walked in. We didn't know what he was going to do. My wife was very frightened. The next thing I knew cops were charging in CUT TO: INT. HOTEL - NIGHT Kimble, in handcuffs, is escorted by Biggs, Newman, Poole and Gerard, out of the hotel into the waiting chaos. Renfro, his head bandaged, is helped by paramedics.
REPORTER: Dr. Kimble, is it true you can prove your innocence! Gerard wants the crowd controlled.
GERARD: ( to police ) Get them back. The marshals ant cops clear a line for Kimble to get into a waiting car away from the media. Biggs opens the back door and helps Kimble inside.
BIGGS: Watch your head, Dr. Kimble. Newman climbs in behind the wheel. Gerard in the back next to Kimble. He leans out the window and motions to Poole.
GERARD: ( to Poole ) Poole, you got that thing? ( to Kimble ) Give me your hands. Kimble pauses, then holds up his wrists and Gerard unlocks Kimble's handcuffs. Poole hands an ice-pack over the seat. Gerard places the pack on Kimble' 9 bruised and battered hands.
GERARD: Take care of those hands, Doc, you're going to need them again I thought you told me 'you didn't Yeah, well, don't spread it around. They share a look of mutual respect as the car pulls away.
KIMBLE: I thought you told me 'you didn't Yeah, well, don't spread it around. They share a look of mutual respect as the car pulls away.
GERARD: Yeah, well, don't spread it around. They share a look of mutual respect as the car pulls away.
HELICOPTER POV: The car carrying Kimble pulls onto Michigan Avenue heading back downtown. As we PULL BACK we see Kimble's car - at first alone on the great avenue - then gradually joined by other cars until finally becoming integrated in the traffic, movement and lights of the city.
FADE OUT: THE END
THE END: Writers : Jeb Stuart David N. Twohy
