JAMIE: Oh, God, it's coming! It's coming! MARY, a young midwife, rushes in with a bowl of hot water. Jamie lurches, knocking the bowl out of the girl's hands; it SHATTERS on the floor.
JAMIE: ( continuing ) Mary, mother of God, please make it stop! Mary's face is frozen in horror. Jamie's SCREAMS build to an unnerving crescendo. The paiin too much for her to bear.
JAMIE: Please . give him to me . The infant is wrapped in black swaddling. The wooden door CREAKS open. Jamie's eyes fill with horror as the shadow of the Stranger fills the room. Standing at the threshold. Waiting to receive the child.
JAMIE: ( continuing ) No, please . my baby! The dark sentinels march out in somber procession, ignoring her desperate pleas. Torches lighting the way.
JAMIE: ( continuing ) Damn you!! Damn you all to hell!!! Jamie's heartrending SHRIEKS are cut off by the cold sound of the
HALLOWEEN 6: The OPENING CREDITS are BRANDED against the BLACK SCREEN by an invisible, kenetic force, interspersed with a SERIES OF CUTS: Jamie's baby is lain upon a primitive altar. Ringed by eleven stones engraved with cryptic markings. Hooded, faceless figures. Torches held aloft. Disembodied VOICES. Whispering. Invoking a dark spell. MARY, the young midwife, peers around a corner. Eyes glazed with horror. Watching. Spying. The newborn SCREAMS. The flattened blade of a dagger smears a triangular symbol in blood over the baby's torso. We MOVE IN on this symbol, capturing it in FREEZE FRAME. It burns off into fiery cinders, disintegrating into DARKNESS. Silence. Then a startling CLAP OF THUNDER as we
FOLLOW DANNY: as he leaps out of bed and pads across polished wooden floors into the hallway. LIGHTNING FLASHES. With the next THUNDER CRASH comes a startling, barely intelligible VOICE.
DANNY'S POV: An ominous shadow at the end of the hall, illuminated by LIGHTNING. Long duster and brimmed hat. The Stranger! In his outstretched hand, the gleaming butcher knife!
KARA: The little boy holds onto her for dear life. Crying hysterically. Eyes clenched tightly.
KARA: ( continuing ) Shh. Mommy's here. What is it?
DANNY: The voice man! He's here! Kara looks in the direction he's pointing. In the light there's just an antique coat rack "dressed" in a hat, rain jacket and old silver-tipped umbrella.
KARA: Danny, no one's there. Danny dares to look but now only cries harder. Kara carries Danny back to his room, averting the steely-eyed gaze of her father, JOHN STRODE, staunch, late 40s, wearing boxer shorts and a well-worn undershirt.
JOHN: Some of us have to get some sleep around here. What's with that kid? Kara ignores him as her mother, DEBRA, careworn face with compassionate eyes, tries to lend a hand.
DEBRA: Let me take him for you, Kara.
KARA: It's all right, Mom. Go back to bed. Debra sighs resignedly. TIM, 18, stocky and streetwise, wearing torn red sweat pants and "Ice-T" t-shirt, casually replaces his Walkman headphones and returns to his room.
KARA: Stay away monters, stay away ghouls. Stay away from Danny. You jerks know the rules. Danny giggles as his pretty young mother tucks him in.
DANNY: Mommy, when can we go home? Kara sighs. They've been through this one before.
KARA: Home is here in Grandma and Grandpa's new house. At least while I'm in college. Remember our deal.
DANNY: The kids at school said this is a haunted house that a bad man used to live here.
KARA: They did, did they? Since when did we start listening to the kids at school?
DANNY: But I've seen him!
KARA: You've been watching too much TV.
DANNY: He says things. Bad things.
KARA: Like what? Danny is afraid to tell her.
KARA: ( continuing ) If you mean the things Grandpa says sometimes, ignore him. Once he gets to know you he'll come around . Let the bad things you hear slide right off your back. Kara tousles his blond hair and kisses his forehead. Then she goes to the closet, just about to turn out the light
DANNY: ( sitting up; panicked ) No, Mom keep it on!
KARA: Okay . But just for tonight. Kara adjusts the closet door, causing one of Danny's school drawings to fly off the wall. She picks it up on her way out.
KARA: ( continuing ) Good-night, Danny. Kara softly closes the door. Danny lies awake, blankets drawn up to his chin, eyes wide. Still very much afraid.
TOMMY: My name's Tommy. I was only eight- years-old when I saw him. But I was lucky. I survived. Tommy paces nervously around his sparsely-furnished attic apartment. Classic horror movie one-sheets and mint first edition comic books share wall space with a chilling array of guns, knives, and survivalist weapons.
TOMMY: Michael's work isn't finished in Haddonfield. Now it's just a matter of time before he comes home to kill again. But this time I'll be MOVE IN TIGHT on the headline, frail and yellowed by age: "November 1, 1978. TOMMY DOYLE SURVIVES BABYSITTER BLOODBATH." Directly beneath this: "November 3, 1989. JAMIE LLOYD FEARED
MARY: Come with me if you want to save your baby. Jamie can't believe her eyes. Mary opens a threadbare knapsack revealing the baby inside! A soul-shuddering RUMBLE echoes throughout the cavern. Jamie leaps up, eyes wide with fear, sensing the evil presence.
JAMIE: Oh, God . He's coming!
MARY: We've got to move. Now! Pulsing with adrenaline, Jamie harnesses the knapsack over her shoulders and follows Mary out into the tunnels.
TUNNEL GATE: Chains GRIND over rusted pulleys. A massive iron gate rises, revealing a pair of filthy work boots. Legs planted in bold stance as a tall, ominous shape begins to emerge.
ANOTHER TUNNEL: The terrified midwife leads Jamie with her baby on a breathless flight through the winding network of tunnels. Haunted by the ECHOING SOUNDS of the rising gate.
MARY: There! It's that way!
JAMIE: Save your baby go now! Jamie runs, disappearing down the dark tunnel. Mary quickly removes her shoes and tears off, now SILENT.
MARY: Save your baby go now! Jamie runs, disappearing down the dark tunnel. Mary quickly removes her shoes and tears off, now SILENT.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Mary turns in small circles. Fear mounting as she falters into darkness. Heavy, labored BREATHING fills the tunnel. A mask the pale, neutral features of a man weirdly distorted by the rubber materialized out of the void right behind her. THE
SHAPE!: Mary turns, about to scream when the Shape lunges out, lifts her up by the nape of the neck and SLAMS her forehead into a large metal SPIKE jutting out from the cavern wall! Leaving her impaled like a fish on a hook, the Shape resumes its relentless pursuit. Eerie under the lighted torches.
MOTORIST: Fingers burning, he searches the glove compartment for a napkin.
DWAYNE: ( chortles ) Harry, you're too much. I'd just like to say that I understand how things have changed in the 90's. Gays in the military, cut off your husband's do- jigger, become a national hero. But I just can't see any sense in bringing Halloween back to Haddonfield. The Motorist looks up. Eyes go wide with panic. Startled GASP.
JAMIE: Drive! Goddamnit, drive! Through his side-view mirror, the unsuspecting Motorist sees the outline of a quickly-approaching man. Unrolling his window, he rubbernecks a look outside.
MOTORIST: Hey, what do you think you're CRUNCHING BONE and TEARING FLESH as the Shape's hands shoot through the window, twisting the man's head off his shoulders! Jamie SCREAMS! Lunges for the steering wheel. Slams her foot down hard on the gas.
ANOTHER ANGLE: The pickup bullets forward, fishtailing up the road, never slowing down as the driver's door flies open, dumping the motorists's headless bulk into a muddy ditch.
LOOMIS: Not dead. Just very much retired. Loomis hobbles to the desk and finishes cutting out a newspaper article. As he arranges the strips of paper in a leather-bound scrapbook, a sudden KNOCK at the door gives him a startle.
LOOMIS: ( sudden recognition ) What the devil?! Come in come in!
WYNN: Christ, what a night! Not even so much as a sign for five miles on that road!
LOOMIS: That's the whole idea of living in the country. I thrive on the seclusion. Wynn heads for the kitchen, rummaging through cabinets and drawers as Loomis dutifully wipes up his muddy trail.
LOOMIS: And in all these years, I've never known you to make house calls, Dr. Wynn. Especially at this hour . Wynn returns with a bottle of Irish whiskey and two shot glasses. Thrusts one in Loomis's hand and begins to pour.
WYNN: Unlike you, Sam, I learned many years ago not to second-guess the motives of my fellow man. Remember what Freud said: 'Sometimes a cigar is just a cigar.' Or, in this case, a drink is just a drink.
LOOMIS: I hope you didn't come all the way out here in this storm just to quote Freud.
WYNN: As always, your keen powers of perception astound me. And you're right. I've come to After thirty-two years as Psychiatric Administrator, guess who has been named Smith's Groves new Chief of Staff.
LOOMIS: But surely Rogers isn't
WYNN: Loomis is abruptly stunned and delighted by the news.
LOOMIS: Why congratulations! I can think of no one better suited for the position. The two old sparring partners drink to the occasion. But Wynn's angle soon comes to the helm.
WYNN: Of course, I need a new Administrator. Someone who can bring new life and some old blood, if you'll pardon the expression back to our program . Loomis prepares himself for the bomb.
WYNN: ( continuing ) We need you, Dr. Loomis.
LOOMIS: You should know that it's not wise to play Halloween pranks on me.
WYNN: You're the only man for the job, Sam. Things haven't been the same since you left. I'm recruiting the best psychiatric team in the country. Old colleagues. This is your change to finally make a difference. Loomis scratches his head and settles down into his comfortable easy chair, amused at the irony of Wynn's speech.
LOOMIS: Even after my stroke six years ago they practically had to hold a gun to my head to get me to retire. Now things have changed. I've changed. The ghosts have been buried. Why on earth would I want to dig them up Loomis finally looks over at Wynn, surprised to find him standing at the desk, looking through his scrap book.
WYNN: Seems to me there's at least one ghost that's still lurking in your closet. We follow Wynn's gaze down toward the open page. A blazing tabloid headline: "MICHAEL MYERS - DEAD OR ALIVE?"
JAMIE: God . Help us, please . Something up ahead. Jamie's face fills with expectancy.
WYNN: But with Rogers and his house of hacks gone, you'd make the rules. Just think it over.
LOOMIS: Please try to understand, Terence. I've already made up my mind. As Wynn continues to talk, his voice trailing off into nothingness, Loomis's attention is diverted to the VOICES on the radio.
TALL MAN: Are you all right, young lady? Shaking uncontrollably, Jamie shrinks away. Backing down a narrow hall through the door marked "LADIES ROOM."
JAMIE: has locked herself inside one of the stalls. Heart pounding. The FOOTSTEPS grow louder. Jamie's eyes dart frantically.
JAMIE: is jolted forward in her seat. Holding on the wheel with a white-knuckle grip as she's repeatedly hit from behind.
JAMIE: EXT. PUMPKIN PATCH ( CONTINUOUS ) The pickup rockets at breakneck speed toward the edge of the field. JAMIE'S P.O.V. The Shape stands in the field, tall and unmoving, white mask glowing hideously in the rush of oncoming headlights.
JAMIE: No NO!!! Suddenly the knife plunges down and lands with a terrible THUD.
THE SCARECROW: burns; mocking Jamie with its grinning, hand-painted face.
THE SHAPE: looks at us, white mask scintillating against blinding rays of SUNLIGHT. Rivulets of blood drip off a large carving knife. PULLING BACK, we see it is a life-sized, knife-wielding effigy of Michael Myers, sitting astride the "For Sale by Strode Realty" sign. Stage blood spells out the words: "He's coming!"
JOHN: Enough . . of this . . Michael Myers . . shit! Suddenly the sign crashes down and "Michael Myers" with it. The kids huddle. John turns on them, brandishing the axe.
JOHN: ( continuing ) You stinkin' kids got three seconds to get the hell off my property! One, two That's all it takes. The kids scatter, tripping over one another as they tear off down the black. Satisfied with himself, John stubs out his cigarette and hauls the sign and its now-headless rider to the trash. Then he trudges up the porch steps, dropping the axe as he enters the house. Uttering oaths under his breath. BOOM UP over the surrounding neighborheed. SUPERIMPOSE: "Haddonfield, Illinois. Halloween." Last night's storm has given way to an incredibly bright and picturesque morning. CHILDREN pour out of their homes, bursting with excitement, dressed in colorful costumes. Even the Myers house, with its trimmed hedges and fresh coat of paint, somehow manages to look invite. A white van slowly rolls up the street. WKNB logo, streamers and a large orange banner proclaiming: "HADDONFIELD JUNIOR COLLEGE HARVEST FAIRE '95 - See Harry Simms Live - October 31." A now-familiar voice booms over loudspeaker:
LOOMIS: It was her voice. On the radio. It was Jamie. Calling for me.
WYNN: You don't know that for sure. It could have been anyone. A practical joke. Kids.
LOOMIS: It was Jamie Lloyd. She came back, as I knew she would one day. And whatever has brought her back has brought Michael back as well.
WYNN: After six years? Sam, she died with him in that explosion after the
LOOMIS: That's what someone wants us to believe, but I tell you Michael is alive. I feel him. I sense the evil that lives inside, just as I did all those years as I watched him. Sitting behind these very same walls. Staring. Growing As my colleague, as my friend, please. I can't go through this again. Not alone. I need your help to stop him. Wynn stares. Loomis's words fall on him like a death sentence.
WYNN: Cancel all my appointments. Get Dr. Loomis anything he needs files, tests, records of every treatment ever administered to a former patient of ours Michael Myers.
DAWN: ( stunned ) Michael Myers? Wynn stops abruptly before heading out the door.
WYNN: That's right. We think there's a very good chance he might still be alive. Loomis acknowledges Wynn's silent understanding.
CORRIDOR: Wynn and Loomis move along a sterile white corridor. Wynn uses his key card to BUZZ them through a series of metal security cages. A retinue of DOCTORS and NURSES fall in behind.
WYNN: ( continuing ) Notify Haddonfield's sheriff; tell him we're on our way. I want the entire staff on alert. We go to code red lockdown for twenty-four hours. ( beat ) If he is alive, I plan on bringing him back.
LOOMIS: Or what's left of him. They cut down a sub-passageway and out a fire exit.
TIM: Bro', I knew Harry when we lived in the city. Don't worry he'll be there. We've got everything arranged. Get with me tonight at the fair and I'll hook you up. Peace. Tim hangs up, guzzling down his shake as Debra navigates around him, setting out the breakfast dishes as Kara tries to study. John, dressed in what might be a respectable business suit if it fit him better, mutters grumpily as he pours himself a cup of coffee.
JOHN: Shitheads . Defacing my property. I showed them .
DEBRA: Relax, John. They were just kids.
JOHN: Kids are what's ruining this country. Everywhere you go, it's the same. No goddamn Tim lets out a huge BELCH as he finishes drinking his breakfast.
JOHN: ( continuing ) See what I'm talkin' about?
DEBRA: You'll never pass that exam on an empty stomach, Kara. Debra snatches the book out of Kara's hands.
DEBRA: ( continuing; reading ) Cognitive Therapy and Emotional Disorders? What are they teaching in college these days? The art of going crazy?
KARA: ( indignant ) It's called psychology, Mom. Living in this house is what's driving me crazy.
JOHN: Who the hell told you to come live here in the first place? Kara rises, collects her books, trying to avoid a confrontation.
KARA: I'd better get Danny to school.
JOHN: She don't show her face for five years, then expects us to roll out the red carpet. You think going to college is gonna make up for your mistakes, girl?
DEBRA: John, please don't
TIM: Yo', just lay off her, Dad. Suddenly Danny runs in, showing off in his dinosaur costume. ROARING loudly. Startling John.
JOHN: What the fuck Kara immediately seizes Danny's hand and ushers him toward the back Let's go, Danny.
KARA: Let's go, Danny.
DEBRA: Kara, wait. John. Can't we all just sit down? Try to be a family for once?
KARA: I'm sorry, Mom. Debra reaches into her purse and hands Kara a couple of dollars.
JOHN: That's it, Debra, keep slipping her the cash. While you're at it, why don't you just give her all our goddamn money?! John explodes, dumping the entire contents of her purse onto the floor. Debra recoils. Kara steps in. Danny is terrified.
KARA: Stay away from her, you bastard.
JOHN: ( re Danny ) I only see one bastard in this house. Kara flies at him with Medea-like rage. John instantly grabs her by the neck and shoves her violently against the counter.
TIM: Dad! Let her go!
DEBRA: John! Stop it! Stop it! Danny looks outside. Frozen in horror. A VOICE whispers.
JOHN: You ever raise your hand to me again, I'll kill you, you understand? John looks down to see the tip of a butcher knife pointed at his groin. Danny is holding it his eyes dark, emotionless. Ever so slowly, John releases Kara. Debra and Tim watch in horrified Suddenly there's a KNOCK at the back door. Kara dives toward Danny. The knife clatters to the floor as she picks him up, grabs her book bag and hurtles outside.
BETH: Make way for the Hardin County Express. Hey, where's Tim? We're supposed to go over the list of events for tonight Beth is taken aback when she sees the bruise on Kara's neck.
BETH: ( continuing ) He do that to you?
KARA: Another episode of 'Daddy Knows Best' at the Strode house.
BETH: Pig. What the hell happened this time? Suddenly Tim jumps out from behind a clothesline, locking his arms around Beth, attacking her with kisses.
BETH: ( continuing ) Hold on, hot lips. We got work to do.
TIM: Shit, Beth, why do we have to be the ones to organnize this friggin' fair? It's only Beth shoves the clipboard at him, a champion of her cause.
BETH: How many times o I have to tell you? It's not about Halloween. It's about being political. There are too many people with corn-cobs up their ass in this town telling us what we can and can't do. If we want change, it's up to us to set an example.
JOHN: I want her and that kid out of here tonight. Debra rises, facing him scornfully.
DEBRA: I thought inheriting your father's house . the business . moving out here might change things. But you're still the same, John. Kara has come home, and I'll be damned if I let you turn her away again. Debra storms off. John bores holes into her with his eyes.
TIM: Whatever happened to women in back?
BETH: Reality check, dillweed. This is 1995. Pulling away from the curb, Beth honks at MRS. BLANKENSHIP, at least 80, owner of the student boarding house across the street.
BETH: ( continuing ) See you tonight, Mrs. Blankenship! The old woman just stares forward. A gardem hose in hand as she waters a garden of long-dead flowers. Kara shields her eyes, distracted, looking up at the old Victorian KARA'S P.O.V. Beth drives down a shady, tree-lined avenue, unaware of the white van that is following them.
KARA: Beth, who's that guy that lives across the hall from you?
BETH: Why? You interested?
KARA: No! I keep seeing him staring out his window. Watching me.
BETH: You mean Tommy. Yeah, on the weirdness scale he's about an eleven. Supposedly some scary shit happened to him when he was a kid. Messed up his head. He's harmless, though. Probably just lonely. Tim leans forward, ravaging Beth's neck.
TIM: Or horny.
KARA: Tim, do you always have to act like such an Only when you're around to dump on . Hey, chill, sis. I'm just doggin' ya. Suddenly the van ROARS by and cuts them off. Beth lays on the HORN. Slams on the brakes. Narrowly avoiding a collision.
TIM: Only when you're around to dump on . Hey, chill, sis. I'm just doggin' ya. Suddenly the van ROARS by and cuts them off. Beth lays on the HORN. Slams on the brakes. Narrowly avoiding a collision.
BETH: Speed kills, asshole! Suddenly the van swerves around to face the VW head on. For a breathless moment the van and the VW sit at opposite ends of the intersection. Idling. A tense stand-off.
KARA: Who is that . Kara strains to get a look at the van's driver. A momentary glimpse of a pale white face behind the wheel.
BETH: ( bravely ) I've got my pepper spray. Danny sits frozen in the back seat. Suddenly the van shoots forward, tires SCREAMING. Startled GASPS. The van turns off sharply at the last second, SCREECHING down the next block.
TIM: ( relieved ) Happy fuckin' Halloween.
BETH: Someone's trying to scare us out of having this fair . and it's not gonna work. Beth drives on, grimly determined. Kara looks back at Danny. He returns her frightened gaze.
ATTENDANT: Can I help you, sir?
TOMMY: Can you tell me if a bus arrived from Russellville last night? The Attendant checks her roster.
ATTENDANT: Sure did. About seven hours ago. You lookin' for someone
TOMMY: ( walking away ) Thank you. The Attendant eyes Tommy suspiciously as he enters the phone booth in the corner. Inside, he picks up the receiver and pretends to dial a number. Makes a cursory inspection.
TOMMY: follows the crimson path around the corner down a dim hallway, stopping at the door marked "Ladies Room." Checking first to make sure the coast is clear, he steps furtively inside.
TOMMY: Jesus . The helpless newborn kicks and CRIES, the triangular symbol of Thorn still caked in blood over his tiny torso.
TOMMY: Okay, little guy. You're okay.
DEPOT HALLWAY: Tommy looks into shadowy stillness. No one there. Hiding the baby, cradling his jacket, he hurries through the crowd and slinks out the door marked ENTRANCE.
WYNN: ( pointing ) What is that?
LOOMIS: It's a sign. He's come home.
DEPUTY: Sir, you'll have to step back.
LOOMIS: Please. I need to see the sheriff.
WYNN: Official business. Wynn flashes his badge. The Deputy gives them a vexed glance.
DEPUTY: Wait here. Loomis's eyes flicker with nervous anticipation. The Deputy whispers something to SHERIFF JIM HOLDT, a brooding giant of a man who dons a Stetson, holstered .44 Special and steel-toed boots that give new meaning to the term "bad ass." Even Loomis steps back as the sheriff lumbers toward them.
LOOMIS: ( extends his hand ) You must be Sheriff Holdt. Holdt responds by stubbing out his Marlboro at Loomis's foot.
HOLDT: As a matter of fact, I am. And I take it you're the infamous Dr. Loomis.
LOOMIS: I'd like to introduce you to Terence Wynn, the Chief of Staff at
HOLDT: Smith's Grove. They told me you'd be coming. Now I suggest you fly right on back to your crackpot asylum. You people got no business in my town.
LOOMIS: Michael Myers is my business. Holdt towers above him.
HOLDT: I want you to listen and listen good, Loomis. Things have been quiet for six years and that's the way they're gonna stay. The last thing we need is you spouting off your ghost stories. As usual, Loomis isn't easily intimidated.
LOOMIS: I suppose it was a ghost that did all this. A ghost who called the radio station last night. Maybe that same ghost is lying over there right Holdt fumes, ready to boil when
DEPUTY: Sheriff! She's alive! Holdt and Loomis wade through the crush of paramedics, running alongside the stretcher being whisked toward an ambulance. A large knife extruding from a girl's stomach, packed under sterile gauze. Skin pasty-white. Lips blue from shock.
LOOMIS: Dear God . Jamie!
TIM: Yo, check it out. They've been lining up all night just to see Harry. You lose your mind in that thing, Kara? Kara is nervously rifling through her enormous book bag.
KARA: I can't find my term paper.
TIM: So copy someone else's. I do it all the time. Works primo. Armed with her clipboard, Beth is assailed by her COMMITTEE. Inundating her with QUESTIONS.
BETH: Give us victory or give us death. See you tonight, Kara! Tim and Beth are swept away. A large sheet of paper falls out of Kara's bag. She picks it up, startled by what she sees.
KARA: Thorn . Lost in grim reverie, Kara walks on, oblivious to the activity all around her . A banner hangs from the eaves of the library: "HADDONFIELD JR.
PARAMEDIC: Penetrating abdominal trauma. Massive blood loss. We've given her two units of O-negative stat and dextran. BP sixty. Pulse one-twenty . Somehow she pulled through out there all DR. BONHAM, the ER resident, peels off the sheet, exposing a dark sea of blood around the enormous knife still jutting from Jamie's stomach. Bonham stares, incredulous.
DR. BONHAM: How can this girl still be alive?! Type and cross-match for another six units! Get a CT scan and move her into surgery. And get them out of here! ORDERLIES move in. Loomis won't release Jamie's hand.
WYNN: Sam, don't let them take care of her.
LOOMIS: I'm here now, Jamie. You're going to live. You have to.
TOMMY: I need to see a doctor.
NURSE: What seems to be the problem?
TOMMY: I-it's a baby my baby. There's been been an accident.
NURSE: What kind of an accident?
TOMMY: ( explodes ) Just get me a doctor right now!
ADJACENT HALLWAY: Wynn and Loomis skirt past a line of SECURITY GUARDS.
WYNN: There's nothing more you can do for her. The shrill sound of Wynn's beeper. He clicks it.
WYNN: ( continuing ) I'll be right back. Wynn disappears around the corner. Loomis wanders off alone.
LOOMIS: Dr. Loomis, thank God you're here. You heard her, didn't you? It was Jamie.
TOMMY: Dr. Loomis, thank God you're here. You heard her, didn't you? It was Jamie.
LOOMIS: I'm sorry, but do I know you
TOMMY: I'm Tommy. Tommy Doyle. Laurie Strode Jamie's mother she was baby-sitting for me that night Loomis suddenly recognizes him. It's been a very long time.
LOOMIS: Yes . Tommy. What are you doing here?
TOMMY: Please just tell me the truth. Has Michael Myers come home? Loomis pulls Tommy aside into an empty alcove.
LOOMIS: What do you know about Michael?
TOMMY: I know he's alive. People in this town they want us to believe he's dead. But I know. I've always known.
LOOMIS: Right now at least one girl is dead and Jamie Lloyd is in there fighting for her life. She is the last of his blood line. If she dies
TOMMY: ( gravely ) No, Dr. Loomis. She's not the last night. Tommy hesitates. Loomis's eyes are drawn enigmatically to the infant in Tommy's arms.
TOMMY: ( continuing; startled realization ) Oh, God his cousins. The Strodes. They're living in the Myers house! Loomis's face flls with horror. Tommy sees the Admittance Nurse, flanked by a pair of security guards, walking his way.
TOMMY: ( continuing ) I gotta go. Tommy bolts toward the exit. Loomis tries to stop him.
LOOMIS: Tommy, wait! But he is gone. A hand taps Loomis's shoulder; he reels. Wynn.
WYNN: There you are. Who was that boy?
LOOMIS: An old friend. Darkness fills Loomis's countenance as we
DEBRA: Frustrated, Debra looks down to see a large puddle of water forming on the floor.
LOOMIS: I'm very sorry, Mrs. Strode. Debra shudders at the sight of the beguiling, wide-eyed man.
LOOMIS: ( continuing ) I've been knocking. The door was open. Is everything all right in here?
DEBRA: ( defensively ) Who are you?
LOOMIS: I've come to help your family. Debra steps aside as Loomis walks in right past her. Holding a valuminous file bearing the name "MICHAEL AUDREY MYERS."
TOMMY: Shhh. Okay, okay, Kyle. You like that name? Yeah, I think it suits you. Quickly he scans the directions on the formula. Pours the liquid into a bottle, nukes it in the microwave, then returns to the business at hand. Tommy grimaces at the mess inside his leather bomber. The baby CRIES harder.
TOMMY: ( continuing ) This is worse for me than it is for you. Armed with Baby Wipe and a diaper, Tommy goes to work.
TOMMY: It's okay, big guy. Don't you worry. I'm gonna take care of you.
LOOMIS: Michael Myers was just six-years-old when he stabbed his sister to death in 1963. Here in this house. For the next fifteen years, I became obsessed with finding out what was living inside of him. He was my lift's work and my ultimate failure. I knew what he was but I never knew why.
IAN: Who's my next victim? The other kids make way as Danny takes the empty spot on the tetherball court, sitting face-to-face with the inplacable Ian. Danny says nothign as he places his bet and slams the stack of Pogs. Ian glowers. Easy money. The showdown begins.
LOOMIS: He crept up these stairs and made his way into this room. His sister's room. Right here. Where it all began.
DEBRA: ( near tears ) What makes you think he'll come here again?
LOOMIS: This house is sacred to him. It's the source of his memories his rage. Mrs. Strode, I beg you. Don't let your family suffer the same fast as Laurie and her daughter.
DEBRA: Jamie? But I thought she was
LOOMIS: Found this morning. In a field outside Haddonfield. Stabbed.
IAN: Double or nothing. Danny pushes over the stack, nothing incisive in his manner. Ian retorts, angrily slamming his Pogs.
IAN: ( continuing ) Look how he sits there. Little freak. Just like the bogeyman who used to live in his house. Are you the bogeyman, Danny? Ian trumps Danny's hand and smiles haughtily. The low, whispering VOICE which only Danny can hear RUMBLES in his mind.
IAN: You crazy little freak!!! Ian goes berserk, leaping out at Danny like an enraged lion. The kids cheer him on as a full-fledged playground brawl ensues. Danny breaks away. Runs. With an amazing burst of strength, he swings a tetherball. Th ball CRACKS Ian right between his eyes, laying the bully flat on his ass.
DEBRA: What should I do?
LOOMIS: Lock the doors and call your husband. Get your family as far away from Haddonfield as God . this can't be true.
DEBRA: God . this can't be true.
LOOMIS: Mrs. Strode, Michael Myers is here to kill his family. And he won't stop until you are all destroyed. I only thank God that I found you before he did. Loomis grips her hand reassuringly, then heads out the door. Debra turns the deadbolt, securing it with the chain lock. She collapses against the wall, tears of horror in her eyes.
JOHN: ( barking ) Strode Realty.
DEBRA: John, it's me. Something terrible has INTERCUT their conversation.
JOHN: What is it this time?
DEBRA: A man came by the house. A psychiatrist by the name of Loomis. John stiffens, slowly sits down behind his desk.
DEBRA: ( continuing ) He told me about the terrible things that happened here. In our house.
JOHN: What the fuck are you doing letting strangers in without
DEBRA: ( releasing ) John, they sound Jamie Lloyd this morning! Someone tried to kill her!
JOHN: What in God's name are you talking about, woman? When are you gonna stop listening to those damned talk shows?
DEBRA: I'm getting the children out of here. At least until we know what we're dealing with. John, I want you to come with us.
JOHN: ( whispers ) Debra, you're fuckin' insane.
DEBRA: You knew, didn't you, John? You knew. A CLICK as the line suddenly goes DEAD. John scowls, opens his lower desk drawer, produces a bottle of JD and a small glass. He blows off dust and begins to pour.
JOHN: Trick-or-treat to you, too.
DEBRA: A startling, intensely whispering VOICE:
DEBRA: Oh, God . Debra races back into the foyer and struggles with the door. In her panic, she can't release the chain lock. She turns to see the Shape standing right behind her! Debra SCREAMS. Breaks for the hall. Through the kitchen. Flings open the back door.
KARA: Mom, I'm home . Hello? No response. Puzzled, she steps off the porch and makes her way around the side of the house, CAMERA FOLLOWING as she peers into the windows along the way.
KARA: Casting one last glance across the yard, she steps inside.
KARA: Mom? . Danny? Nothing. Kara moves into the foyer. Her mother's suitcase still sitting there. Beyond, the cellar door stands wide open. Kara moves toward it, peering into blackness. A sudden CRASH from upstairs. Kara jerks the door closed and looks up the deeply-shadowed staircase.
KARA: ( continuing ) Mom? Are you there? A muffled ROAR. Kara mounts the staircase.
DANNY'S BEDROOM: Someone sitting on the edge of Danny's bed. A man. His back turned. Dinosaurs ROAR on Sega Genesis. Danny squatting on the floor, engrossed in his game. Kara stares at the intruder in horrified disbelief.
KARA: Who the hell are you? The man watching over Danny turns toward Kara. It's Tommy.
TOMMY: I-I'm your neighbor from across the street. My name's Tommy. Tommy Doyle. Panicked, Kara makes a wall of herself between Tommy and Danny. The little boy isn't the least bit fazed.
KARA: What are you doing with my son? Where's my Tommy backs off a tick, calmly trying to explain.
TOMMY: She wasn't here when I brought Danny home Danny, go downstairs Now! Danny finally looks up, exasperated.
KARA: ( fortissimo ) Danny, go downstairs Now! Danny finally looks up, exasperated.
DANNY: Tommy's my new friend. We've been playing 'til you got home. He knows all about dinosaurs. One look at Danny's black eye and Kara goes ballistic.
KARA: My, God! What have you done to him?
TOMMY: I didn't He got in a fight and I
KARA: You stay away from him! Kara starts to drag Danny away by the arm. He resists angrily.
DANNY: It wasn't Tommy! It was the voice man. Kara sees Tommy hunkering down in the corner, lifting something out of a crate a makeship crib. He turns, his expression very grave. Holding the baby.
TOMMY: I want you to listen very carefully to everything I'm about to tell you. Kara's face is a melange of wonder and fear as we
JAMIE: Please, Michael . Help me. Suddenly a long SHADOW fills the room. The P.O.V. becomes more restless as the Stranger glides toward Jamie and disrobes. The figures close the circle. Jamie SCREAMS in terror. The Shape's hands SLAM violently against the iron bars, a horrific SHUDDER of metal as we
BETH: Seven-thirty is the costume pageant . Carving jack-o'-lanterns at eight . Photos for the school paper at nine . Then Harry lights the tree at nine- thirty . I just know I'm forgetting something!
TIM: Relax. Everything's cool. Didn't I tell you Harry would be here? The limo crawls into the parking lot. A stampede of overzealous FANS surge past them.
BETH: That's what worries me. Tim and Beth move into the fair, with all its noise and colorful ANOTHER ANGLE KIDS waving signs and T-shirts. Throwing themselves at the windows. Frenzied CLAMORING. Harry-mania abound. The WKNB van parks parallel to the steps of the library, adorned with HAREM GIRLS and a large golden throne. The side door opens. A red carpet is rolled out. A tall, imposing figure emerges from the van and walks up the steps. Spurs CLANKING on black boots. "Jesse James" style duster. Hat cocked slightly.
ANOTHER ANGLE: KIDS waving signs and T-shirts. Throwing themselves at the windows. Frenzied CLAMORING. Harry-mania abound. The WKNB van parks parallel to the steps of the library, adorned with HAREM GIRLS and a large golden throne. The side door opens. A red carpet is rolled out. A tall, imposing figure emerges from the van and walks up the steps. Spurs CLANKING on black boots. "Jesse James" style duster. Hat cocked slightly.
LOOMIS: ( into walkie-talkie ) Any word on the location of the Strodes?
LOOMIS: Good. I want around-the-clock surveillance on that house. Suddenly Loomis is waylaid by a giant wall of a man Sheriff Holdt. Loomis meets his fiery gaze.
HOLDT: I'm warning you, Loomis stay out of my way. You may have had free reign when Ben Meeker was sheriff, God rest his soul, but I'm in charge now. And I'm not about to stand by and watch you turn this night into some kind of sadistic witch hunt.
LOOMIS: ( into walkie-talkie ) What's wrong? What's happened to Jamie?
TOMMY: Quiet around here tonight, huh, Mrs. B.? As usual, the senile old woman doesn't reply.
KARA: ( indignantly; to Tommy ) Do you mind telling me what this is all about? Tim and Beth are waiting for us. Tommy ushers Kara and Danny up the stairs. Mrs. Blankenship stares at the boy the kind of stare that would send most kids running for their moms. But Danny is undaunted.
DANNY: Mom, I want to go to the fair .
KARA: ( to Tommy ) You can't expect us to stay here Tommy adjusts the blinds on the window looking out on the Myers I want you to watch your house. You can see everything from this window. Kara glares, reminded of last night.
TOMMY: I want you to watch your house. You can see everything from this window. Kara glares, reminded of last night.
KARA: Do you know how insane this is? Who am I supposed to be looking for?
TOMMY: Tommy flashes a newspaper article in front of her. One we've seen eariler: "MICHAEL MYERS - DEAD OF ALIVE?" The baby's SCREAMS are verging on overload. Tommy dashes to the recessed kitchen area and heats up another bottle. As Kara reads, Danny tugs at his mother's blouse.
DANNY: Come on, Mom. We're gonna miss all the fun Danny, you're just going to have to wait! Danny plods off. Kara hands Tommy a nipple for the bottle. Their eyes lock for a beat. He takes it.
KARA: ( snapping ) Danny, you're just going to have to wait! Danny plods off. Kara hands Tommy a nipple for the bottle. Their eyes lock for a beat. He takes it.
TOMMY: Shhh. It's okay, Kyle. Just give me one second. There you go, big guy. Kara looks on as Tommy attempts to feed the baby. Despite his clumsiness, she's undeniably moved. Behind them, Danny's imagination kicks into high gear as he drives a Power Ranger over an invisible race track. On the floor. Across the windowsill. Glancing across the street.
TOMMY: God, what's wrong with him?
KARA: Here. Let me try. Tommy gingerly hands the baby over to her. Instantaneously, Kyle's CRIES subside.
KARA: ( continuing; fawning ) There. All it takes is a mother's touch. For one fleeting moment, Tommy and Kara find themselves smiling at one another. Unaware as Danny glides silently out the door. Tommy's expression darkens once again. A man possessed.
TOMMY: Kyle's mother might be dead for all I know. Now I'm afraid he could be next.
KARA: Why would anyone want to kill an innocent baby?
TOMMY: Not just Kyle. All of you. His entire family. Here. Look at this. Tommy opens the baby's quilt, revealing the blood mark smeared over his torso. Kara's face registers terrified recognition.
TOMMY: ( continuing ) It was there when I found him this morning. It looks like some kind of letter or number or
KARA: It's a rune . Thorn.
LOOMIS: Jamie . I failed you again. I never should have left you. He spins, pouncing on Sheriff Holdt.
LOOMIS: ( continuing ) Now will you do something?! How many more innocent people have to die?! Wynn restrains him. Pulls him away. The sheriff doesn't budge.
WYNN: Don't do this to yourself, Sam. Let's go. Come on. Wynn ushers Loomis out of the room. Holdt stares apathetically.
DR. BONHAM: Dr. Loomis?
WYNN: What is it?
DR. BONHAM: I'm very sorry .
LOOMIS: You let it get to her. How could you?
DR. BONHAM: Dr. Loomis, there's something else you should know. During surgery, we discovered that Jamie's uterus was hemorrhaging. We found It's placental fluid.
LOOMIS: God in heaven. You don't tell me she was
DR. BONHAM: I estimate she gave birth no more than a few hours before the attack.
WYNN: Then where's her baby? Jamie's covered body is wheeled out past them. Loomis regards Wynn with a look of abject fear.
LOOMIS: I think I may already know .
KARA: Runes were a kind of early alphabet that originated in Northern Europe thousands of years ago. They were symbols carved out of stone or pieces of wood. Of all the runes, Thorn had the most negative influence. Cults used them in blood rituals to portend future events and invoke magic.
TOMMY: Black magic . 'In ancient times, Thorn was believed to cause sickness, famine and death. Translated literally, it was the name of a demon spirit that delivered human sacrifices . on the Celtic celebration of Samhain.'
KARA: 'When applied directly to another person, Thorn could be used to call upon them confusion and destruction to literally visit them with the Tommy jumps up, frantically moving around the apartment, collecting his jacket, his keys a gun.
TOMMY: 'When applied directly to another person, Thorn could be used to call upon them confusion and destruction to literally visit them with the Tommy jumps up, frantically moving around the apartment, collecting his jacket, his keys a gun.
KARA: ( terrified ) Where are you going?
TOMMY: To find the rest of your family before Michael Myers does or whoever's been controlling An ominous CLICK as Tommy loads a cartridge into his gun. He bolts toward the door. Finds it standing wide open. Kara freezes, noticing for the first time that Danny is missing.
KARA: Oh, God Where's Danny? Kara flies down the hall, the baby in her arms. Tommy moves out right behind her.
KARA: Danny?! Danny!
TOMMY: Mrs. Blankenship, have you seen the little boy who came in with me and They find Mrs. Blankenship and Danny sitting side by side, watching the Horrorthon. A bowl of popcorn between them.
KARA: ( grabs him ) Danny, don't ever walk off without telling me where you're going! Danny looks at her. A blank, hollow stare. The old woman's eyes glitter madly.
MRS. BLANKENSHIP: The voice. He hears the voice. Just like the other little boy who used to live in that Tommy throws on his jacket and opens the front door.
TOMMY: Take the kids upstairs, lock the door and wait for me. And Kara, whatever you do don't go back to your house. Kara watches fearfully as Tommy heads out the door. Leaving her alone with the children.
JOHN: . Pretty woman, walking down the street . Pretty woman, the kind I'd like to meet.
JOHN: Damn kid . this is my house . John fumbles wth his key, estimates the location of the lock. He turns the knob but the door's jammed. Chain-locked.
JOHN: ( continuing ) What the fuck . ( yelling inside ) . Debra, open this goddamn door before I break it down! You got to three . ( no response ) . One . Two . ( still no response ) . Two and a half . John slams his weight against the door. It doesn't budge. Grumbling, John totters off the porch, trying to hold himself steady. Skirting along the side of the house.
JOHN: Debra I'm home! No answer. John shrugs and moves to the stove. Opens the lid on a pasta cooker. Nothing inside.
JOHN: ( continuing; mutters ) Work all day and not even any supper . Frustrated, John opens the freezer and removes a frozen dinner. Tears open the box and pops it in the microwave. Then he flounders down the dark alley, knocking picture frames awry.
JOHN: All right . You can all come out now . Still no reply. John sneers, flicks on the television with the remote control and settles back into his chair.
JOHN: What is this shit? Disgusted, he switches channels to the local NEWS. A shrill BEEP from the kitchen startles him. The microwave.
KITCHEN: John waddles to a drawer and removes a set of utensils. Then he reaches for the microwave, opens it. But his dinner is gone. Spinning around, he sees the piping hot entree already sitting out on the kitchen table. John double-takes, mentally retracing his steps. Shrugs.
FOLLOW JOHN: as he picks up his tray and plods back down the hall. Suddenly he trips over something the suitcase Debra had packed earlier, sitting smack-dead in the center of the hall.
JOHN: So this is the game you wanna play. Fine. Go ahead. Keep it up all night .
LIVING ROOM: John settles back into his chair and begins to eat ravenously. SCREAMS from the television. He reacts.
JOHN: Is that you, you little brat? Danny?! John rises, about to go for him when suddenly the power cuts out and the entire house is plunged into blackness.
JOHN: ( continuing ) When I get my hands on you, kid, you're gonna wish you were never born! John pulls a rechargeable flashlight from the wall and goes to the cellar door. It stands open. An invitation to enter.
JOHN: ( continuing ) Oh, I'm scared. I'm really scared. With that, John steps down into the basement.
JOHN: What the hell He opens the washer lid and lifts out a water-logged sheet. It drips red onto the white appliance blood. John backs away, loses his footing, and slips in the water landing right at the Shape's feet. John SCREAMS as the Shape grabs him by the neck, lifts him off the floor with one hand, then carries him across the basement and SLAMS him brutally against the open fuse The Shape's free hand lifts an enormous butcher knife. A loud WHAP as it's driven to the hilt into John's chest, through the fuse box. Sparks wain from the wall. Electricity courses through John's writing body.
HARRY SIMMS: ( into mike ) I'm here with Tim and Beth the organizers of tonight's event. How does it feel knowing you've finally pulled Halloween out of the ( into mike ) Yo, Harry, it's great! And having you here with us is dope. Totally raw. You're the ultimate juice!
TIM: ( into mike ) Yo, Harry, it's great! And having you here with us is dope. Totally raw. You're the ultimate juice!
HARRY SIMMS: I'll remember that the next time my wife tells me I didn't make her climax.
BETH: ( impassioned ) What Tim means is that we've taken a firm stand against censorship. Not only for Haddonfield, but for every town in the nation. Our generation will not let the powers-that-be control our minds, dictate what clothes we wear, what music we listen to, or what holidays we celebrate. Beth's rousing speech is met by gales of enthusiastic CHEERS.
HARRY: ( off-handedly ) Have you ever considered running for public EXT. HADDONFIELD STREETS - VARIOUS SHOTS - NIGHT The distant SOUNDS of the celebration are carried on the wings of the WIND. Howling through dark, empty streets. Rows of deserted houses. Not a soul in sight. Preternatural stillness.
KARA: Mrs. Blankenship, what did you mean about the little boy who used to live across the street? The old woman doesn't seem to hear her. Lost in her own world.
KARA: ( continuing; insistent ) Mrs. Blankenship, please. This is important! Mrs. Blankenship looks up sharply, startling Kara.
MRS. BLANKENSHIP: He heard the voice. Same as your boy hears.
KARA: What voice? What are you talking about?
MRS. BLANKENSHIP: The voice that spoke to Michael Myers. The one that told him to kill his family. Kara stares at her, numbed. She gazes over at Danny, his eyes riveted not to the TV screen. Looking past it. Across the street at the Myers house. The haunting VOICE whispers to him.
THE STRANGER: walks steadily past the bright lights of the Ferris wheel.
TOMMY: pushes through a dense crowd. Suddenly he bumps shoulders with the Stranger. More people pass. There was something very sinister about that man. Tommy turns to look again, eyes widening in terror.
TOMMY: removes his gun. Flows through the crowd like a vengeful wraith. People see the gun in his hand and back away. Tommy surges forward. The Stranger walks faster. Gaining ground. Toward the Halloween tree. WORKERS hauling wheelbarrows loaded with jack-o'-lanterns cross his path. Tommy stumbles, pumpkins spilling out all around him. The Stranger is getting away! Tommy picks himself up, raises the gun and begins FIRING shots into the air. People SCREAM, scattering like insects, ducking for cover.
TOMMY: Stop that man! Stop him!!! Tommy races through the horrified crowd. The Stranger keeps moving, never once looking back. Suddenly SIRENS. Squad cars converge. Sheriff Holdt and a slew of OFFICERS surround Tommy. Weapons trained.
HOLDT: Throw down the gun! Now!!! Tommy drops the gun. Puts his arms up in surrender. The cops swarm in, taking him.
TOMMY: Stop that man! He's the one!
TIM: Who's gettin' busted? Beth is stunned to see Tommy being searched spread-eagle over the sheriff's car.
BETH: Jesus, that's my neighbor. Tommy.
TIM: Isn't he that psycho who's been spying on my Kara and Danny never showed up tonight. We'd better go home and check on them. There's nothing else for us to do here.
BETH: ( worried ) Kara and Danny never showed up tonight. We'd better go home and check on them. There's nothing else for us to do here.
TIM: But they're gonna light the tree in a few We can light our own tree at home. She brushes against Tim's crotch and saunters away. Tim glances back at Tommy, then follows her like a hungry puppy.
BETH: ( suggestively ) We can light our own tree at home. She brushes against Tim's crotch and saunters away. Tim glances back at Tommy, then follows her like a hungry puppy.
MRS. BLANKENSHIP: I was baby-sitting for him that night. Little Mikey Myers from across the street. That's when the voice told him what to do. Same as his great- grandfather.
KARA: His what?!
MRS. BLANKENSHIP: Eighteen-ninety-five. A hundred years ago to this night. All Hallows Eve. Murdered his family in that very same house. Then the townspeople burned him alive. Our mother always told us when we were children, 'Don't go near the Myers house.' We never did.
STALKING P.O.V: MOVING behind the tree where a long-haired figure stands in the darkness. Waiting to make a presentation.
HARRY: turns, sensing a presence. A knife shoots out of the darkness, jabbing him right between the legs.
TOMMY: is shoved into the back of the squad car. Suddenly Loomis appears. Prevailing upon the sheriff.
LOOMIS: Wait! This boy is being placed in my custody. Tommy looks out, stunned.
HOLDT: What are you trying to pull now, Loomis?
LOOMIS: Uncuff him! This is a matter of life or death.
HARRY: The knife is lifted straight up, splitting his torso in two, eyes bugging with shock. He slumps to the ground in a huge pool of TOMMY AND LOOMIS The sheriff uncuffs Tommy and shoves him out of the car.
HOLDT: You'd better as fuck have an explanation for this, Doctor. Loomis begins to usher Tommy through the gaping crowd.
TOMMY: Dr. Loomis, there's something you should Tommy is prodded forward by Loomis's .357.
LOOMIS: I know enough already. Just shut your mouth and take me to that baby. They move swiftly through the gaping crowd.
TOMMY: Oh my God
LOOMIS: Loomis goes for him. Sheriff Holdt sees what is happening and flies toward them in pursuit.
TOMMY: Get them out of there! Get out!!! Sheriff Holdt tries to intercept Tommy just as he leaps up onto the stage, pushing kids out of the way. Parents' faces register shock when they see their children running toward them, SCREAMING hysterically, soaked with blood. Loomis sees what Tommy sees. Words cannot convey the horror in his Just then, a BOLT OF LIGHTNING ignites the tree. SPARKS flash. Tiny pumpkin lights EXPLODE in a startling chain reaction. Tommy helps the last of the kids off the stage when something falls from the gnarled branches: a dangling, rotating, wrapped-up thing. The mutilated remains of Harry Simms! Horrified, Tommy dashes headlong off the stage. Runs with Loomis with the trampling crowd. Struck dumb with terror, Holdt looks out upon the mass destruction. The bloody corpse hanging from the tree. People running, SCREAMING, carrying their children toward the exits.
TOMMY: Oh, God Kara!!! A car SCREECHES to a halt as Tommy barrels across the street. Loomis right behind him. Running toward home. Once again, terror reigns in Haddonfield, Illinois.
DANNY: Mommy, I'm scared.
KARA: There's nothing to be scared of, baby. It's just another storm. Try to get some sleep.
DANNY: I can't. The voice man is coming to get me.
KARA: No one's coming to get you. Not while I'm around.
DANNY: ( kisses him ) I promise. Kara stands up and goes to the window, looking out into the pouring RAIN.
KARA: ( kisses him ) I promise. Kara stands up and goes to the window, looking out into the pouring RAIN.
HALLWAY: She KNOCKS loudly on the door across the hall. A sign that reads: "Beth's Place."
KARA: Beth, are you in there? She knocks again. No response. Another CLAP OF THUNDER. Kara shudders, quickly returns to Tommy's apartment and locks the door.
BETH: ( coming up for air ) Guess they went to the fair after all.
TIM: ( hot and heavy ) Guess so . Tim nuzzles his face in Beth's chest. She's feeling apprehensive.
BETH: What if your parents come home?
TIM: Then they can watch. Laughing, they heard up the stairs, kissing, fondling each other. Slowly we PULL BACK into the foyer. THUNDER and LIGHTNING CLASH, revealing the Shape, knife held at ready. Watching.
BETH: Aren't you gonna answer that?
TIM: Answer what?
BETH: ( fends him off ) What if it's Kara? Frustrated, Tim jumps off the bed and stomps into the bathroom, taking a candle with him.
TIM: Fine. You answer it. I'll make friends with my soap on a Tim slams the door. Beth deliberates her move, then goes to pick up the phone.
BETH: ( into phone ) INT. TOMMY'S APARTMENT Kara is frantic. Looking out the window at the Myers house.
KARA: ( into phone ) Mom Who is this?
KARA: What are you doing there? Where's my mother?
BETH: We were worried about you guys so we left early to see if you were
BETH: He's in the bathroom.
KARA: I'm across the street. I can see you. Beth, I want you to listen to me. Get Tim and get out of that house. Right Unnoticed by Kara, Danny rises and crosses the room. Drawn toward the door by the irascible voice.
BETH: Kara, what the hell is going on?
KARA: Beth, look out! There's someone in the room! He's right behind you!
KARA: Danny, no!!!
KARA: shoots across the lawn. Up the porch steps. Right behind him.
KARA: ( the faintest whisper ) She advances into the hall. Old floorboards CREAK beneath her feet. SOUNDS up ahead. FOOTSTEPS. Kara looks up. LIGHTNING FLASHES. Danny is nearing the top of the Instinct propels her up the stairs after him. Then suddenly she stops dead. Reason taking over. And she turns back. Picks up a fireplace poker sitting in the corner. Then she heads back up the stairs. Mind-blown with horror.
UPSTAIRS HALLWAY: Kara reaches the top of the staircase, looking down the dark hallway. Summoning all of her courage, she moves forward. Suddenly Danny darts out from the adjacent hall and disappears inside his bedroom a fleeting, ghostly image. Kara startles. Follows him DANNY'S BEDROOM Danny stands in a corner. LIGHTNING illuminates his toy dinosaurs. Kara goes to him, takes his hand. He resists her.
DANNY'S BEDROOM: Danny stands in a corner. LIGHTNING illuminates his toy dinosaurs. Kara goes to him, takes his hand. He resists her.
KARA: ( intense whisper ) Come on . Danny, please. She picks him up, carries him toward the door. LUMBERING FOOTSTEPS. Kara stands paralyzed in the doorway as the Shape stalks down the hall. Eyes probing. Walking right past them.
DANNY'S BEDROOM: Kara slips silently back into the room, carrying Danny through the bathroom. Adjoining on the opposite side into
KARA'S ROOM: LIGHTNING CRACKLES. The walls are covered with blood. Kara stumbles over something on the floor. Cranes her neck to look down. Beth's bloody, mangled remains at her feet. Shock waves send Kara reeling backwards against the open bathroom door. Hanging on a hook is Tim's naked body, eyes open, staring at her in a horrified rictus of death. Kara SCREAMS. Drops Danny. Quickly covers her mouth. Realizing that she's given them away. Suddenly the bedroom door tears open, buckling off its hinges. The Shape bulldozes in, wielding its huge butcher knife!
KARA: Danny, run!!! Danny ducks into the hall, evading the Shape's lurching hands.
DANNY: careens down the stairs. THUNDER RAGES.
KARA: brandishes the fireplace poker at the killer. The Shape moves in, backing her through the bathroom . into Danny's room. Suddenly she SLAMS the door on the Shape. Kara tears off into the hallway. Turns. Waiting for the Shape to appear. It doesn't. Kara vacillates down the hall. Jumping at every sound. Training her weapon at things unseen. SLAMMING doors along the way, sealing off every passageway as she tries to find her way through the impenetrable dark tunnel. Suddenly something CRASHES down from above. Kara's mother, strung up on a bloody sheet, dangling upside-down from the trap door in the ceiling! The axe still protruding from her chest.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Kara SCREAMS, shrinking away from the gruesome sight, faltering through the blackened doorway behind her. An unbearable moment of tension as we think the Shape's mask will be there. Suddenly the Shape shoots up directly in front of her! Tearing the dangling corpse from the sheet, dislodging the axe from Debra's chest with a repulsive SQUISH. Kara wheels toward the stairs. The Shape advances. Swings the axe. Misses her by inches. Kara ducks, lurches behind the Shape. Swings the fireplace poker with everything she's got. CRACKING it full-force over the back of the Shape's head. The Shape breaks through the banister and plunges off the landing, SLAMMING hard onto the floor below. Terrified, Kara chances a look down. The Shape doesn't move.
LIVING ROOM: Kara searches for Danny, keeping her eyes trained on the Shape. The little boy appears in the doorway directly across the hall. The Shape lying in between them.
KARA: Danny, come to Mommy. Danny shakes his head. Too frightened to move.
DANNY: The Shape springs up, twisting Kara's ankle. She falls, splaying forward. The Shape claws at her leg. Kara fights back, kicking herself free of the vice-like grip. Scrambling to her feet, Kara rockets Danny through the foyer to the front door desperately trying to escape from this real-life house of horrors only to find that it is locked. The Shape rises, gleaming butcher knife in hand. Kara twists the deadbolt, but someone's secured the chain lock! Too late to remove it. The Shape is right behind them. Only one way to go. The cellar. Kara shoves Danny through.
KARA: Danny, help me! Kara's hand reaches toward him. Danny makes no movement.
KARA: INT. MYERS HOUSE - CELLAR Kara's foot falls on the handle of the knife jutting from her father's chest. Uses it to springboard herself half-way through the window. Clawing at wet grass. The Shape's hand shoots out of the darkness below, grabbing at her legs. Kara writhes, kicking and SCREAMING.
KARA: Please! Open the door!
TOMMY: The baby where's the baby?! Suddenly they HEAR Kara's frantic pleas outside. Tommy bolts out the door. Loomis right behind him.
KARA: Please! Somebody help us! Danny huddles beside her, peering out across the street.
KARA: Help us please!!! The Shape closes in. At the last second, Tommy throws open the door. Kara and Danny tumble inside. Into his arms.
LOOMIS: Get them upstairs. Now! Kara pounds against Tommy's chest. Hysterical.
KARA: Where's the baby?!
TOMMY: He's gone. Kara holds Danny close to her side, backing away in horror as Tommy and Loomis go around the parlor, securing the doors and windows. THUNDER RIPS through the darkened room.
TOMMY: ( continuing ) Who else knew I had the baby?!
LOOMIS: No one.
TOMMY: No there had to be someone else. Who knew?!
LOOMIS: Only me and Dr. Wynn. Suddenly the window behind Kara EXPLODES. She SCREAMS, recoiling. Then the window in front of her. HANDS reach through. Tommy shoves her out of the way. ANOTHER HAND shoots through the stained glass window in the front door, twists open the lock. Danny races across the lobby and up the stairs. Robed figures fill the doorways. Climbing through windows. Moving inside the house. Surrounding Loomis.
LOOMIS: ( continuing ) The robed figures descend on Loomis. Drops his .357. Tommy lurches for it, to no avail. Loomis's SCREAM fills the darkness like a fever dream.
LOOMIS: ( continuing ) Run, Tommy!!! Run!!!
TOMMY: Tommy backpedals up the stairs. Kara pulling him along as the cloaked figures glow toward them. Daggers raised.
UPSTAIRS HALLWAY: Kara reacts to the SOUND of Danny's VOICE.
DANNY: Mommy! Please help me! Kara rushes through darkness to find him.
KARA: Danny! Danny, where are you?!
TOMMY: Kara, no! Kara trips and falls. A pair of silver-tipped black boots planted in bold stance. Slowly she looks up the long duster, the cigarette in the gloved hand of the nefarious Stranger Dr. Wynn! Danny stands by his side, staring dispassionately.
KARA: Danny, no . please . Kara picks herself up, shaking her head in unmitigated fear, staggering back down the hallway. She turns to see the black figures overtaking Tommy. His SCREAMS swallowed by hollow darkness. Alone, Kara careens through another doorway into
TOMMY'S APARTMENT: Kara slams the door, turns in desperate circles. Stepping out from behind the door is Mrs. Blankenship the baby bundled in her arms!
KARA: Mrs. Blankenship Oh, God Hurry. We have to As Kara reaches for the baby, the old woman raises a dagger. Her eyes burning. Her wrist branded with the mark of Thorn! Kara SCREAMS. The old woman opens the door, allowing the figures to enter the room. Daggers drawn. CHANTING a dark invocation. The coven forces Kara backwards. Nowhere to run. Nowhere to hide. Suddenly Kara makes a decision and takes a running leap toward the EXT. BLANKENSHIP HOUSE ( CONTINUOUS ) Defenestrating herself, Kara SCREAMS, tumbling through the air, bouncing off the porch overhang before plunging to the front lawn below. A thousand grass fragments raining down on her.
KARA: lies on her back, eyes close, hands folded over her chest in silent repose. She doesn't move.
THE HOUSE: is still. Unearthly silence fills the cold October night.
KARA: is being pushed forward on a gurney. Strapped down. SCREAMING for God's is wheeled through another tunnel. His face a mass of bloody cuts and bruises. His eyes glazed over, trying to find focus. SLAMMING into EXT. SANITARIUM - NIGHT LIGHTNING illuminates the cold, forbidding asylum. The white van pulls up to the security gate. Headlights illuminate the sign: "SMITH'S GROVE -
TOMMY: is wheeled through another tunnel. His face a mass of bloody cuts and bruises. His eyes glazed over, trying to find focus. SLAMMING into EXT. SANITARIUM - NIGHT LIGHTNING illuminates the cold, forbidding asylum. The white van pulls up to the security gate. Headlights illuminate the sign: "SMITH'S GROVE -
THE VAN: pulls to a stop near the main building. The door slides open and Danny steps out, surrounded by Smith's Grove staff wearing white jackets. Leading him toward the entrance.
LANDING FIELD: The helicopter touches down. Wynn ducks out, moving in long, even strides toward the building.
DAWN: Good evening, Dr. Wynn. Your appointment is waiting Wynn picks up his messages, then heads straight into the office. Dawn resumes her typing. Something eerie in her grin.
WYNN: What is this all about? Remove those! The guards comply. Loomis rubs his aching wrists, glowering.
LOOMIS: Where's the child?
WYNN: Sam, you know you never fail to amaze me. Yesterday happily retired, today right back in the thick of things. Somehow I knew you still had it in you. Loomis sees his .357 resting atop Wynn's desk only inches away. Wynn's hand covers it, slips it inside the top drawer.
WYNN: ( continuing ) Come now, Sam. This is a gathering of old friends. I know how difficult this must be for you a man of your upbringing and integrity but now that I'm in charge I felt it was only fair that you finally know the truth. ( gestures to his staff ) After all, you're the only one around here who's still in the dark, as it were. This isn't the way I wanted to tell you, but you've really given me no other choice.
LOOMIS: This is madness, Wynn.
WYNN: Your madness is another man's greatness. This is the way things have always been. You've just been too blinded by your own reality to see. But having you on the outside has been convenient for us in many ways. You always did come through our loyal watch dog. Finding him. Bringing him back to us once he'd finished his work. Although after you had that nasty stroke the last time, I had to go after him myself. And what a terrible time we had getting him out of that jail cell.
LOOMIS: It was you.
WYNN: ( lights a cigarette ) Sometimes a cigar is just a cigar.
LOOMIS: Why did you take Jamie?
WYNN: She has the gift the blood of Thorn running through her veins. Michael's mother had it, too. So for six years I incubated her, prepared her for this night. Michael has served his purpose. And soon we will have a new progeny.
LOOMIS: Jamie's baby .
WYNN: There you go trying to make sense again. It's a curse. Handed down through countless generations. As ageless as this celebration which you call Halloween.
LOOMIS: And I'm its deliverer. Its calling card, if you will. I follow it. Protect it. Act as its guardian. In a sense, Sam, so do you. Loomis shudders, rocked by these revelations.
WYNN: And I'm its deliverer. Its calling card, if you will. I follow it. Protect it. Act as its guardian. In a sense, Sam, so do you. Loomis shudders, rocked by these revelations.
WYNN: ( continuing ) I know you have more questions, my friend, and there's so much more for you to try to make sense of. Loomis is hoisted out of his chair and led out of the office. Wynn and his white coats flow out behind him.
WYNN: Look at him. So silent, yet so deadly. He moves when I tell him to. Act on my impulses. Feels what I feel. Wynn demonstrates. Loomis looks on, spellbound.
WYNN: ( continuing ) Michael Rise. Below, the Shape slowly rises. Wynn takes out his trusted switchblade.
WYNN: ( continuing ) Michael Pain. Wynn cuts his hand. The Shape grabs his own hand in agony. Wynn smiles, sucking the bleeding gash.
WYNN: ( continuing ) Michael Kill. Suddenly Wynn whirls around, throwing Dawn his faithful secretary inside the Shape's pit. Wynn watches with hideous delight as her horrified SCREAMS trail away into blood-gurgling SILENCE. Loomis closes his eyes in anguish.
LOOMIS: You've created a monster.
WYNN: Amazing, isn't it? I even taught him to drive. Wynn carries on without remorse. Loomis is brutally shoved forward.
WYNN: ( continuing ) We're not the only ones, you know. There are many believers generous contributors to our church. You'd be amazed to know how far it reaches.
TOMMY: Holy shit . Tommy lifts a rifle, awed by its devastating lines, then slams in a cartridge and bolts out the door. Back into the tunnels.
WYNN: ( prophetically ) Behind, Disciples of Thorn! The final sign! The birth of the heretic child, delivered unto us on the eve of our great Feast of the Sun . as I have foreseen it. Jamie's baby is carried forth, CRYING as it is lain inside a baptismal urn beside Kara. Ringed by candles and a circle of stones eleven in all etched with symbolic runes.
CEREMONIAL ROOM: The coven CHANTS its invocation. Wynn draws a magic circle around the infant with blood from a silver chalice. Then he inscribes a pentagram in the air with an ornate dagger.
WYNN: Spirits and powers of the flame, attend and witness this ritual. Bear our gifts to Thorn. Open us to the path of Darkness. By these runes transform us. Open our eyes and show us the Chosen One to whom we offer this sacrifice of Innocent Blood. Suddenly Danny is issued forth up to the altar. His eyes dark, lifeless pools. Kara struggles against her bonds.
KARA: Loomis lurches forward. Halted by massive, restraining hands.
CATWALK: Tommy moves cautiously along the narrow wooden lip, looking down upon the evil ritual. Startled by the SOUND of rusted chains. Pulleys CRANKING. The Shape's cell being opened.
CEREMONIAL ROOM: The Shape emerges from its cell and slowly walks forward. Strangely calm. Hypnotized. Looming above Kara. She lets out a SCREAM of unbridled terror as he raises a gleaming dagger. Wynn stands behind Danny. Places the dagger in his hand and holds it aloft. Above the baby.
WYNN: Strong and fierce Thorn, Thundered, by thy hammer we summon thee and offer this sacrifice of innocent blood. Let thy Darkness descend on your son. Danny. Lord of the Dead. Danny drifts into the dark spell, holding the dagger above the SCREAMING infant. Wynn speaks in the ominous WHISPERING VOICE:
WYNN: ( continuing ) Kill for him, Danny . Kill for him. Kara cries, appealing to the boy inside of Michael.
KARA: Michael, please. You can make him stop. You remember, don't you? The Shape stares hard at her through the sockets of its mask. Listening. Reminded of his mother.
KARA: ( continuing ) Remember what he did to you that night. What his voice told you to do. You can stop it, Michael. Stop the voice Danny's eyes flash like fire. The CHANTING is insidious.
WYNN: Kill him, Danny. Kill him!
KARA: Danny, don't listen! The voice isn't real! Danny turns sharply, seeing his mother. Suddenly terrified.
WYNN: Kill him, Danny! You feel the rage inside! You are Thorn! Suddenly Danny drops the dagger. Wynn flies at him, SCREAMING like an enraged beast. The Shape raises its dagger and plunges it into Wynn! Wynn's eyes go wide with shock. The Shape lurches empathetically. Wynn staggers, yanks the blade from his stomach. RAPID-FIRE GUNSHOTS rip through the chamber as Tommy lets loose a barrage of bullets from above. Taking out several coven members, the rest scattering, retreating into the tunnels. Loomis dives Danny a split second before he through Kara's bonds with the Kara springs toward the baby as the room is ripped apart by GUNFIRE. The altar decimated. Candles falling. Setting the room ablaze. Wynn releases the supports which suspend the catwalk. Wooden girders CRASH down from the ceiling. Tommy pitches to the floor, dropping the rifle. The Shape staggers, trying to get to its feet. Slowly. Painfully. Flames lapping at its back. Loomis crawls toward the rifle. Grabs it. Rises just as Wynn seizes Danny, a dagger at his throat. Pulling him away.
LOOMIS: Stay away, Sam.
WYNN: Stay away, Sam.
LOOMIS: Leave the boy. Take me. Loomis slowly places the rifle down in front of Wynn. Surrendering himself. Tommy drags himself toward Kara and the baby. Paralyzed with horror as they try to anticipate Wynn's move.
WYNN: ( smiles trenchantly ) Good-bye, Dr. Loomis. Loomis turns. Gasps in startled reflex. The Shape rises up behind him, swiping the dagger across his chest! Wynn retreats and flies through a doorway with Danny.
DANNY: Tommy and Kara race across the flame-engulfed room, reaching the door just as it SLAMS shut. Cutting them off. The Shape, the trail of flames growing on its back, hurls Loomis over the crushed altar. Tommy sees Loomis writhing on the floor, about to go for him when The Shape turns on them! Tommy stands in front of Kara and the baby, backing away, propelling them out into the tunnels. The Shape walks forward in fevered pursuit, all but consumed by fire.
KARA: Tommy and Kara race across the flame-engulfed room, reaching the door just as it SLAMS shut. Cutting them off. The Shape, the trail of flames growing on its back, hurls Loomis over the crushed altar. Tommy sees Loomis writhing on the floor, about to go for him when The Shape turns on them! Tommy stands in front of Kara and the baby, backing away, propelling them out into the tunnels. The Shape walks forward in fevered pursuit, all but consumed by fire.
TUNNELS: Tommy, Kara and Danny race deep into the heart of the tunnel maze.
LOOMIS: painfully crawls away.
LOOMIS: Die, Michael. In the name of God, die!
THE SHAPE: glides steadily through the tunnels. A walking pillar of flame. Undaunted. Unstoppable. Hell-spawned.
TOMMY: This way! Tommy leads her toward an exit sign. Behind them, the elevator doors close. The indicator light shows it moving down. They reach a dead end. The row of coded security cages.
KARA: What now?!
TOMMY: ( realization ) Wait a minute . He reaches into his pocket withdrawing Wynn's key card! Suddenly the elevator doors open. FIRE GUSTS. The Shape emerges, totally engulfed in flame. The emergency sprinklers are activated. Dousing the flames as it walks after them. Tommy panics, runs the key card. The gate BUZZES open. They run through. The Shape's hands lurch through the bars, missing Kara by inches. They race toward the next gate. The gate behind them opens, and the Shape walks through! Tommy runs the card again. The gate BUZZES. They slam it one step ahead of the Shape. The third and final gate. Tommy tries the card. Nothing!
KARA: Come on!
TOMMY: ( tries it again ) It's not working! The Shape moves through the last gate. Inside the cage with them!
TOMMY: ( continuing ) Someone's controlling it!
KARA: How will we ever find him? Tommy's gaze terrifies her. He starts the engine and tears off toward the sanitarium gate. Kara looks down at the baby, then stares numbly forward. In the back of the van, we can SEE the the Shape's white mask. Glowing in the darkness. Emerging. Kara and Tommy drive on, unaware. And that, for now, is how we leave them.
