LEE: Hi, how are you?
HANNAH: ( nibbling on an hors d'oeuvre ) Elliot? Elliot? ( rubbing his shoulder )
ELLIOT: ( turning to Hannah ) ( pointing to the tray ) Have you tried these? These are ( nibbling, swallowing ) Holly and her friend made them.
HANNAH: ( pointing to the tray ) Have you tried these? These are ( nibbling, swallowing ) Holly and her friend made them.
ELLIOT: ( swallowing ) They're fantastic.
HANNAH: ( overlapping, still eating ) Aren't they great?
ELLIOT: Your sister is an unbelievable cook.
HANNAH: ( swallowing ) I know! I know!
HANNAH: ( walking offscreen ) She has all the cooking talent.
ELLIOT: ( walking offscreen swallowing ) No, she doesn't, either. You've got tons as well.
HANNAH: ( offscreen ) Ohhh, but I've eaten five of these.
ELLIOT: ( offscreen, overlapping Holly ) Holly, why don't you open your own ( turning to the offscreen Elliot and Hannah, trying to swallow ) Mmm, we practically are. Well. ( holding her hand to her mouth ) not a restaurant, but. ( swallowing ) April and I are going to do some ( offscreen ) What? You're kidding!
HOLLY: ( turning to the offscreen Elliot and Hannah, trying to swallow ) Mmm, we practically are. Well. ( holding her hand to her mouth ) not a restaurant, but. ( swallowing ) April and I are going to do some ( offscreen ) What? You're kidding!
HANNAH: ( offscreen ) What? You're kidding!
HOLLY: ( nodding ) No, no, we decided!
HANNAH: ( nodding and swallowing ) Mmm.I mean, we love to cook for our friends, so ( gesturing ) we thought until an acting job comes through, we could just make some extra money, you know, doing a few private parties.
HOLLY: ( nodding and swallowing ) Mmm.I mean, we love to cook for our friends, so ( gesturing ) we thought until an acting job comes through, we could just make some extra money, you know, doing a few private parties.
ELLIOT: ( nodding ) Great idea.
HANNAH: ( agreeing ) I know.
ELLIOT: ( overlapping Hannah ) That's where your talent lies.
HOLLY: ( swallowing and nodding ) I know.
HOLLY: ( gesturing to Elliot, still laughing ) Get outta here. ( to Hannah ) Could I speak to you privately?
HANNAH: Oh, sure.
ELLIOT: ( calling after them as he nibbles on an hors d'oeuvre ) I'm her husband! She tells me
HOLLY: Hannah, I have to borrow some more Don't get upset.
HANNAH: ( stirring some food in a saucepan on the stove ) Mmm, I never get upset over that. This is the last time, I promise. And I'm keeping strict accounts.
HOLLY: This is the last time, I promise. And I'm keeping strict accounts.
HANNAH: Holly, please. Don't insult me.
HOLLY: ( putting her empty glass and plate down on the table ) Someday, I'll pay it all back.
HANNAH: I know. H-how much do you need?
HOLLY: Two thousand dollars.
HANNAH: ( trying to nod her head casually ) ( gesturing, her back to the camera ) Hannah, I know it's a lot, but my friend April and I, we have this catering idea I think's going to be
HOLLY: ( gesturing, her back to the camera ) Hannah, I know it's a lot, but my friend April and I, we have this catering idea I think's going to be
HOLLY: ( turning to face Hannah ) You admit that we're great cooks, ( nodding, back at the stove now, stirring in a pot ) ( putting her hands in her pockets ) Well, in order to get started, there's just a few things I have to ( gesturing ) and some old debts I have ( looking at her sister ) Will you just tell me one thing?
HANNAH: ( nodding, back at the stove now, stirring in a pot ) ( putting her hands in her pockets ) Well, in order to get started, there's just a few things I have to ( gesturing ) and some old debts I have ( looking at her sister ) Will you just tell me one thing?
HOLLY: ( putting her hands in her pockets ) Well, in order to get started, there's just a few things I have to ( gesturing ) and some old debts I have ( looking at her sister ) Will you just tell me one thing?
HANNAH: ( looking at her sister ) Will you just tell me one thing?
HOLLY: ( nodding ) Are we talking about cocaine again?
HANNAH: Are we talking about cocaine again?
HOLLY: ( shaking her head no ) I swear. I swear. We've already got some requests to do a few dinner parties.
HOLLY: I mean, obviously, I'm not going to be a caterer forever, you know. We both still go to auditions. Something could turn up at any moment. But the parties are at night, days are free, I can still take my acting class. I haven't done drugs on a year.
LEE: Mom and Dad are floating down memory lane again!
HANNAH: ( smiling and turning to Lee ) Aah. Hey, have you tried Holly and her friend's shrimp puffs?
LEE: ( nodding to Holly, touching her arm ) I think they're fantastic.
HANNAH: ( to Holly ) You've outdone yourself.
HOLLY: ( overlapping her sisters, shrugging and smiling ) Oh, my God. Thank you.
LEE: ( interrupting, to Hannah ) I need an antihistamine. Mom thinks she's feeling her asthma, and so.
HANNAH: ( overlapping ) ( overlapping, lighting a cigarette ) ( continuing ) .before she starts turning into ( laughing )
HOLLY: ( overlapping, lighting a cigarette ) ( continuing ) .before she starts turning into ( laughing )
LEE: ( continuing ) .before she starts turning into ( laughing )
HOLLY: ( overlapping ) Yeah, Mom's Camille when she gets up in the morning.
LEE: ( turning to Holly ) At least she isn't drinking. Did you notice?
HOLLY: ( nodding ) ( turning to look at her sisters, laughing ) Doesn't she look great in that new ( nodding ) ( nodding ) Don't you think she does?
HANNAH: ( turning to look at her sisters, laughing ) Doesn't she look great in that new ( nodding ) ( nodding ) Don't you think she does?
HOLLY: ( nodding ) ( nodding ) Don't you think she does?
LEE: ( nodding ) Don't you think she does?
HANNAH: Don't you think she does?
HOLLY: She really does, though.
LEE: ( turning towards the sink ) Yeah, she knows it, too, 'cause she's flirting with all the men here.
HOLLY: ( puffing on her cigarette ) ( scooping out some cantaloupe seeds ) Maybe when she's eighty, she'll stop straightening her garter belt when there's a guy around.
HANNAH: ( scooping out some cantaloupe seeds ) Maybe when she's eighty, she'll stop straightening her garter belt when there's a guy around.
HOLLY: ( to Lee, laughing ) I should get a garter belt.
LEE: ( laughing ) ( looking down at herself ) Get a garter belt. ( sipping her drink ) Get a garter belt and flirt.
HOLLY: ( looking down at herself ) Get a garter belt. ( sipping her drink ) Get a garter belt and flirt.
LEE: ( laughing, to Hannah ) Where are the antihistamines?
HANNAH: Oh, I don Ask Elliot for that. Uh, he's got them somewhere.
LEE: ( nodding )
HOLLY: ( sighing ) Frederick didn't come with her.
HANNAH: ( turning to Holly, still working at the sink ) When does Frederick ever come with ( whispering intently ) Tch. He's such an angry.he's such a depressive. I thought she was moving out!
HOLLY: ( whispering intently ) Tch. He's such an angry.he's such a depressive. I thought she was moving out!
HANNAH: ( to the children ) Watch out, you guys. Beep-beep!
HOLLY: ( overlapping ) Oh, your kids are so adorable.
CHILDREN: ( walking through the doorway ) Bye! Bye!
HOLLY: ( putting down her bowl on the table ) God, it gets so lonely on the ( setting down the turkey on the opposite end of the table ) Oh, gosh. Well, you know, that's why I invited Phil Gammage tonight.
HANNAH: ( setting down the turkey on the opposite end of the table ) Oh, gosh. Well, you know, that's why I invited Phil Gammage tonight.
HOLLY: ( grimacing, reacting to Hannah ) Oh, Hannah!
HANNAH: ( overlapping ) It's, uh, you never know
HOLLY: ( interrupting, gesturing ) He's such a loser!
HANNAH: He's not a loser at all!
HOLLY: ( shaking her head ) Oh, he's such a loser!
HANNAH: ( overlapping, lighting a set of candles on the table ) He's the headmaster of Daisy's Oh, perfect! He reminds me of Ichabod Crane. ( moving her hand up and down her throat ) His Adam's apple keeps jumping up and down whenever he gets excited.
HOLLY: Oh, perfect! He reminds me of Ichabod Crane. His Adam's apple keeps jumping up and down whenever he gets excited.
HANNAH: ( laughing ) Listen. He's a lot better than your ex-husband. He's got a good ( handing a pack of matches to Holly ) Would you light those, please? He's-he's-he's not a dope addict or ( striking a match to light another set of candles ) Give me a break.
HOLLY: ( striking a match to light another set of candles ) Give me a break.
APRIL: ( offscreen ) Am I interrupting.
APRIL: ( continuing ) .any sister talk?
HANNAH: ( offscreen ) ( offscreen ) Come in.
HOLLY: ( offscreen ) Come in.
APRIL: Oh, good.
HANNAH: ( overlapping, still offscreen ) Come in, come in.
APRIL: ( gesturing ) .because there are no interesting single men at this party!
HANNAH: ( now onscreen ) Oh, listen.
HOLLY: ( interrupting, waving out her match ) I know. It's terrible!
APRIL: ( shaking her head ) I mean, I've looked everywhere.
HANNAH: ( picking at the turkey and gesturing ) Maybe April would like Phil. Phil Gammage, the tall guy in there by the piano.
APRIL: ( pointing to herself ) Hm-mm. Oh, yeah. I met Phil.
HANNAH: ( looking at April, nodding ) He's theHe looks like Ichabod
APRIL: He's theHe looks like Ichabod
APRIL: ( laughing with the sisters, gesturing ) I love that. That's my type.
HANNAH: ( shaking her head, laughing ) I can't believe it!
APRIL: ( nodding and looking at Hannah ) No, really, I really like him a lot.
HOLLY: ( overlapping, laughing and gesturing ) No, really, we mustn't get
HOLLY: ( fussing at the table ) Hannah will invite some men over who don't look like Ichabod Crane.
APRIL: ( overlapping )
HOLLY: ( straightening a table setting ) Not this Thanksgiving, you know.
HANNAH: ( overlapping, to April, who has just set down her apples ) Here. Be careful with those.
HOLLY: ( continuing her teasing, gesturing ) Maybe at Christmas, New Year's. If not this New Year's, maybe next New
HOLLY: ( reacting ) ( turning to her sister in surprise )
HANNAH: ( turning to her sister in surprise )
ELLIOT: ( searching ) Must be here someplace.
LEE: ( offscreen ) Oh, you know, I, I love that book you lent me. The Easter Parade? You were right. It had very special meaning for me.
ELLIOT: How's Frederick? He didn't come.
LEE: ( offscreen ) Oh, well, you know Frederick. One of his moods. Although it wasn't a bad week. He ( onscreen ) uh, sold a picture.
ELLIOT: ( offscreen ) Oh, great.
LEE: Yeah, it was, it was one of his better drawings, a very beautiful nude study. Actually, it was of me. It's funny, you know, it's a funny feeling to know you're being hung naked in some stranger's living room.
LEE: Well, you can't tell it's me, You're turning all red, Elliot.
ELLIOT: ( laughing self-consciously ) Really? So, so, what else? Wh- what are you up to?
LEE: ( offscreen ) Oh, I don't know. My unemployment checks are running out. Um, I was thinking of taking some courses at Columbia with the last of my savings.
ELLIOT: Like, uh.?
LEE: ( offscreen ) I don't know exactly.
LEE: Uh, sociology, psychology maybe. I always thought I might like to work with children.
ELLIOT: ( gesturing with the bottle of pills gripped in his hand ) Incidentally, I-I always have clients who are furnishing places. Some of them might-might be interested in buying art. Shall I, shall I call you? ( chuckling self-consciously )
LEE: Yeah, sure. You know, uh, Frederick would really by grateful for a sale.
HANNAH: ( offscreen ) Hey, you guys?
HANNAH: ( offscreen ) Dinner's ready.
LEE: ( offscreen ) Oh, great.
HANNAH: ( overlapping ) You look so beautiful.
LEE: ( offscreen ) Come on.
HANNAH: ( standing by Elliot and Lee ) Doesn't she look pretty?
LEE: I bumped into your.
ELLIOT: ( overlapping, agreeing with Hannah ) ( continuing ) .ex-husband on the street the other day.
LEE: ( continuing ) .ex-husband on the street the other day.
HANNAH: ( biting her carrot ) Oh, yeah?
LEE: ( gesturing ) He was, he's just as crazy as ever. He was on his way to get a blood ( laughing, Elliot joining in )
HANNAH: ( reacting ) God, Mickey's such a hypochondriac. I wonder how he'd handle it if there was ever anything really wrong with him?
ELLIOT: ( standing up ) Let's go have dinner, shall we?
HANNAH: ( overlapping ) ( standing up, overlapping ) Good idea.
LEE: ( standing up, overlapping ) Good idea.
EVAN: ( clanking a piece of silverware against his water glass ) Now, ladies and gentlemen.
HOLLY: ( making a face )
HOLLY: ( reacting, to Holly ) ( still clanking ) No, now.
LEE: ( reacting, to Holly ) ( still clanking ) No, now.
HOLLY: ( still clanking ) No, now.
EVAN: ( still clanking ) No, now.
HOLLY: I'm starving!
EVAN: ( clanking away ) .this is a toast! This is a toast.
HANNAH: ( reaching across the table for Evan's wine glass, laughing ) Get his wine away.
EVAN: This is a toast. You know this beautiful Thanksgiving dinner was
EVAN: .prepared.by Hannah.
HANNAH: ( modestly pointing to the maid ) Uh, and a little help.
NORMA: ( to her daughters ) ( continuing ) .from Mavis, also. ( hugging Hannah ) You bet.
HANNAH: ( continuing ) .from Mavis, also. ( hugging Hannah ) You bet.
ELLIOT: ( hugging Hannah ) You bet.
HANNAH: ( overlapping, looking down the table while still in Elliot's embrace ) Holly and April, thanks for helping.
EVAN: ( overlapping the noise ) No, you did it.
HOLLY: ( overlapping, toasting her friend ) April, April!
HANNAH: ( overlapping, gesturing ) I am. I did slave all day.
EVAN: ( overlapping, holding out his wine glass ) And we drink to her, and we all congratulate her on her wonderful accomplishment during this last year.her great success in A Doll's House!
NORMA: ( overlapping, laughing ) ( laughing ) I played Nora. I hate to tell you what year.
NORMA: ( continuing ) And it's very difficult to behave like Torvald's little chipmunk without making a perfect ass out of ( pausing while the guests laugh heartily ) Now I think that Ibsen would have been damn proud of our Hannah!
APRIL: ( overlapping the applause and clapping loudly ) Speech! Speech! Speech!
NORMA: ( overlapping )
HANNAH: ( reacting ) I don't know about that. Oh, no, I just, see, I-I've been very, very lucky. W-when I had the kids, I decided to stop working and just, you know, devote myself to having the family, and I've been very, very happy ( banging her fists lightly on the table ) but.I've always secretly hoped that maybe some little gem would come along and tempt me back on the ( nodding ) ( overlapping ) .just for a second. So, now I got that out of my system and I can go back to the thing that makes me
EVAN: ( nodding ) ( overlapping ) .just for a second. So, now I got that out of my system and I can go back to the thing that makes me
HANNAH: ( overlapping ) .just for a second. So, now I got that out of my system and I can go back to the thing that makes me
EVAN: ( chuckling ) Oh, bravo! Bravo!
LEE: ( to an offscreen Frederick ) Want some coffee or tea?
FREDERICK: ( offscreen ) No, thank you.
LEE: ( stirring her coffee ) How about something to eat?
FREDERICK: No, nothing.
LEE: Are you sure?
FREDERICK: ( walking around the screen to Frederick ) Mmm, what am I gonna do with you? ( laughing )
LEE: ( walking around the screen to Frederick ) Mmm, what am I gonna do with you? ( laughing )
LEE: ( sniffing ) And why didn't you come tonight? We all had a terrific time. I really think you would have enjoyed ( not looking at Lee ) I'm going through a period of my life where I just can't be around ( putting down the brushes and wiping his hands with the same rag ) I didn't want to wind up abusing You're not going to abuse them. They're all so sweet.
FREDERICK: ( not looking at Lee ) I'm going through a period of my life where I just can't be around ( putting down the brushes and wiping his hands with the same rag ) I didn't want to wind up abusing You're not going to abuse them. They're all so sweet.
LEE: You're not going to abuse them. They're all so sweet.
FREDERICK: ( taking off his glasses ) ( pausing, reaching for Lee's hand ) you are the only person I can be with.who I really look forward to being with. ( pulling Lee to him, around the board )
LEE: ( compliantly ) You're too harsh with everyone. You know that, don't you?
FREDERICK: ( looking into Lee's eyes ) Isn't it enough that I can love you?
LEE: ( sighing ) ( overlapping ) .you're such a puzzle. ( chuckling ) So sweet with me and so.contemptuous of everyone else. ( sighing )
FREDERICK: ( overlapping ) .you're such a puzzle. ( chuckling ) So sweet with me and so.contemptuous of everyone else. ( sighing )
LEE: ( overlapping ) .you're such a puzzle. ( chuckling ) So sweet with me and so.contemptuous of everyone else. ( sighing )
FREDERICK: ( sniffing ) Well, there was a time ( sniffing again ) when you were very happy to be only with me. You wanted to learn everything about poetry, about music.
LEE: ( nodding ) Have I really taught you everything I have to give? ( shakes his head ) I don't think so.
FREDERICK: Have I really taught you everything I have to give? I don't think so.
LEE: ( turning her head in Frederick's direction ) Oh, Elliot said he might have a couple of clients for you.
FREDERICK: ( offscreen ) I'm sure all those morons he handles have a deep feeling for art.
LEE: ( flipping through the book ) ( chuckling ) you never know. They might. He's just trying to do the nice thing.
FREDERICK: ( offscreen ) Because he likes you.
LEE: ( looking up from the book )
FREDERICK: Frederick, leaving his work area, walks past Lee; his hands are in his pockets.
FREDERICK: ( looking at Lee as he goes by ) Elliot lusts after you.
LEE: Based on what? You never even see
FREDERICK: Based on.whenever you see him, you always come home full of books he's recommended.
FREDERICK: ( continuing ) .or films you must see or. ( shrugging )
LEE: ( walking over to him ) Oh, no, no, no. He's my sister's husband. And I think if you gave him half a chance, you'd like him. He's very intelligent.
FREDERICK: He's a glorified accountant, and he's after you. And I prefer to sell my work to people who appreciate it, not to rock stars. You understand?
LEE: ( sighing )
MICKEY: ( gesturing ) What do you mean, they won't let us do the sketch?
PAUL: Talk to Standards and Practices. They think it's too dirty.
MICKEY: But we showed it to them in You know, what'd they do, figure out what the words mean? Mickey, we got a half hour to air!
MICKEY: ( to Paul ) You know, what'd they do, figure out what the words mean? Mickey, we got a half hour to air!
MARY: Mickey, we got a half hour to air!
LARRY: We're short! The show is five minutes short!
MICKEY: How could it be short? We timed If we have to.
PAUL: ( offscreen ) If we have to.
PAUL: ( continuing ) .pull out the sketch, then we'll be ten minutes short!
MICKEY: ( gesturing ) I don't know how they can do that to us. That's We go on in thirty minutes, right?
LARRY: ( squeezing past several passersby ) They're doing it because our ratings are low.
MICKEY: ( nervously rubbing his forehead ) I got such a migraine.
GAIL: ( offscreen ) Hey, Mickey! Mickey! Listen, we better go right to Ronny's dressing room. This kid must have taken sixteen hundred Quaaludes. I don't think he's going to be able to do the show!
GAIL: Mickey! Listen, we better go right to Ronny's dressing room. This kid must have taken sixteen hundred Quaaludes. I don't think he's going to be able to do the show!
MICKEY: ( gesturing towards heaven ) Why me, Lord? What did I ( pointing ) Standards and Practices?
MICKEY: ( pointing ) Standards and Practices?
ED: Ed Smythe, yes.
MICKEY: Okay. Why, all of a sudden, is the sketch dirty?
ED: ( gesturing ) Child molestation is a touchy ( overlapping, looking at Gail ) Could you
MICKEY: ( overlapping, looking at Gail ) Could you
ED: ( continuing ) .with the affiliates.
MICKEY: ( overlapping and grunting ) Read the papers! Half the country's doing it!
ED: ( pointing at Mickey ) Yes, but you name names.
MICKEY: ( gesturing ) We nev We don't name names! ( turning to Gail for support, briefly touching her shoulders, then looking back at Ed ) We say the Pope.
GAIL: ( gesturing emphatically ) We always say the Pope!
ED: That sketch.
MICKEY: ( overlapping ) ( continuing ) .cannot go on the air.
ED: ( continuing ) .cannot go on the air.
MICKEY: Oh, Je
WRITER: ( interrupting, shouting )
WRITER: ( angrily, slapping his script ) Who changed my sketch about the PLO?
MICKEY: ( gesturing ) I had to make some cuts. It's four lousy lines!
WRITER: The whole premise is ruined!
MICKEY: ( gesturing, trying to calm the writer down ) Oh, you're crazy! It's not so delicate. Everybody's married to every line.
GAIL: ( tapping Mickey's shoulder ) Mickey, I can
WRITER: ( interrupting, angrily gesturing ) I don't care! I don't want anyone tampering with my goddamn work without telling me!
MICKEY: ( shrugging ) ( pointing angrily ) You want 'em cut?! I'll cut 'em
WRITER: ( pointing angrily ) You want 'em cut?! I'll cut 'em
MICKEY: ( shrugging, distracted ) All right, all right. ( muttering )
GAIL: ( overlapping, trying to get Mickey's attention and gesturing ) Mickey, Mickey, listen, listen.
MICKEY: ( distractedly, his mind still on the writer ) You know. ( muttering as the writer passes him and walks away )
GAIL: ( overlapping, gesturing ) In-in-in-instead of the child molestation sketch, why don't we repeat the Cardinal Spellman Ronald Reagan homosexual dance number?
MICKEY: ( still distracted, looking off ) ( overlapping ) I don't feel good, Mickey.
RON: ( overlapping ) I don't feel good, Mickey.
MICKEY: ( gesturing ) Yeah, wh Yeah, what did you do? Swallow a drugstore?!
MICKEY: ( to Gail ) Look at this guy.
GAIL: ( overlapping, touching Ron's chair ) ( groaning ) I lost my voice.
RON: ( groaning ) I lost my voice.
MICKEY: ( reacting ) Oh, Jesus!
GAIL: ( gesturing ) Ron.Ronny, you know you do have to go on in twenty-five minutes.
MICKEY: ( looking around, touching his stomach ) Hey, does anybody got a Tagamet? My, my ulcer's starting to kill me!
RON: ( sighing ) You want a Quaalude?
HANNAH: Hi! Hi!
MICKEY: ( overlapping, sniffing ) I know.I know.
HANNAH: Glad you could put in an appearance.
MICKEY: ( gesturing ) I got two minutes.
HANNAH: ( overlapping ) Very good.
MICKEY: ( overlapping ) I got two minutes. 'Cause, God, the show is killing me. I got a million appointments today. It just so happens it fell this way.
MICKEY: I gotta see new comedians later, I've gotta
HANNAH: ( interrupting ) Two minutes on your sons' birthday. You know, it's not going to kill you.
MICKEY: Happy Birthday, fellas! Happy
HANNAH: ( overlapping their chatter, bending down to talk to her sons ) Guys, look what Daddy brought. ( to his sons ) Yeah, aren't you like, you know.
MICKEY: ( to his sons ) Yeah, aren't you like, you know.
HANNAH: ( overlapping ) ( continuing, holding out his arms ) .a little, uh, hey! A little hug! What is this? Now how 'bout a little action from the kids?
MICKEY: ( continuing, holding out his arms ) .a little, uh, hey! A little hug! What is this? Now how 'bout a little action from the kids?
MICKEY: ( turning to Hannah ) How is everything?
HANNAH: ( picking up the gift on the sofa and nodding ) Everything's good. Everything's ( nodding, overlapping ) Yeah? Yeah? ( pointing ) Okay, kids, you can open the presents now.
MICKEY: ( nodding, overlapping ) Yeah? Yeah? ( pointing ) Okay, kids, you can open the presents now.
HANNAH: ( overlapping ) Here, you guys. Open them up.
MICKEY: Let me get a little reaction here. How's Elliot?
HANNAH: He's fine.
MICKEY: ( overlapping ) Oh, you know what? I'm trying to convince him to produce a play.
HANNAH: ( overlapping ) Oh, you know what? I'm trying to convince him to produce a play.
MICKEY: I think he'll find that satisfying.
HANNAH: I think he'll find that satisfying.
MICKEY: ( nodding ) Really? That'll be terrific for him, I think.
HANNAH: I think so.
MICKEY: I like him. I think he's a sweet The few times that I've met him. Isn't that a great mitt?
HANNAH: ( stroking one of the twins' backs ) The few times that I've met him. ( pointing to the baseball mitt twin #1, has taken out of his box ) Isn't that a great mitt?
MICKEY: The few times that I've met him. Isn't that a great mitt?
TWIN #1: Thank you, Daddy.
MICKEY: ( overlapping to Hannah ) 'Cause he's a loser.
HANNAH: ( overlapping, to Twin #1 ) ( overlapping, gesturing ) H-he's so awkward and he's clumsy like me.
MICKEY: ( overlapping, gesturing ) H-he's so awkward and he's clumsy like me.
HANNAH: ( overlapping, chuckling ) I know, I know.
MICKEY: ( overlapping ) .so I, so I like that. I always like an underconfident person.
HANNAH: ( overlapping, touching the mitt and reacting ) That's really nice!
MICKEY: ( still rambling on, gesturing to Hannah ) .you know? I, uh.
HANNAH: ( overlapping ) You know, he's been wanting a mitt.
MICKEY: You've always had good taste in husbands, so.
HANNAH: ( chuckling and nodding ) Thanks, thanks.
MICKEY: ( leaning down to look at the football ) That's a beauty!
HANNAH: ( leaning down to look at the football ) That's a beauty!
MICKEY: Isn't that great?
HANNAH: ( pointing, to Twin #2 ) Go right over there.
MICKEY: ( pointing, to Twin #2 ) Go right over there.
HANNAH: Twin #2, panting, runs offscreen to catch the football.
MICKEY: ( to the offscreen twin ) Come on! Hurry up! Let's go!
HANNAH: ( looking offscreen at twin #2 ) ( still pointing, gearing up for the pass ) Go out, go out by the Sung vase and, and catch this.
MICKEY: ( still pointing, gearing up for the pass ) Go out, go out by the Sung vase and, and catch this.
MICKEY: ( whistling )
HANNAH: ( pointing offscreen ) Hey, d Watch, watch the picture.
DR. ABEL: ( taking out Mickey's file ) So what's the, uh, problem this time?
MICKEY: ( offscreen ) This time I really think I have
MICKEY: ( onscreen ) I mean, I'm absolutely convinced that-that You know, I mean, it's not like that adenoidal thing, you know, where I didn't realize I had them out.
MICKEY: ( continuing, gesturing ) So, so, but it was when I was younger, so
DR. ABEL: ( overlapping, interrupting ) You know, I saw your father this week about his sinus.
MICKEY: ( folding his arms on his chest ) ( continuing ) .and, uh, he complained of chest Well, this guy's the real hypochondriac of the family. I mean, he's, you know, he's
DR. ABEL: ( continuing ) .and, uh, he complained of chest Well, this guy's the real hypochondriac of the family. I mean, he's, you know, he's
MICKEY: Well, this guy's the real hypochondriac of the family. I mean, he's, you know, he's
DR. ABEL: ( interrupting ) You mentioned on the phone that you'd had some dizziness.
MICKEY: ( rubbing his hands on his knees ) Yes, a little dizziness, and I think, I think I'm developing a hearing loss in my right ear ( poking at his ears and gesturing ) .or my left ear, my, my left.oh, n-n-n-no. No, I'm sorry. It was my right, my right, my right or my left ear.
MICKEY: ( nodding and gesturing ) Now I ca-can't remember.
DR. ABEL: Let's take a look.
DR. ABEL: Well, I'm sorry to say you have had a significant drop in the high- decibel range of your right ear.
MICKEY: ( offscreen )
DR. ABEL: ( offscreen ) Have you been exposed to a loud noise recently, or did you have a ( offscreen ) No, I-I've been perfectly healthy. You know me.
MICKEY: ( offscreen ) No, I-I've been perfectly healthy. You know me.
MICKEY: ( offscreen ) I always, I-I always imagine that I have things.
DR. ABEL: ( offscreen ) When did you first notice this?
MICKEY: ( offscreen ) Oh, uh, about a month ago. Wha- what do I have?
DR. ABEL: You've had some dizzy spells. What about ringing and buzzing? Have you, uh, noticed any of that?
MICKEY: ( gesturing ) Yes, now-now that you mention it, uh, I-I-I have, uh, buzzing and also ringing. Ringing and buzzing. Um, am I going deaf, or something?
DR. ABEL: ( making more notes in the file ) And it's just in one ear?
MICKEY: ( picking at his fingers ) Yes, is it, is it, uh, healthier to have problems in both ears?
DR. ABEL: ( his face offscreen ) What I'd like to do, is to make an appointment for you at the hospital. I'd like to have them run some tests.
MICKEY: The hospital? What kind of tests?
DR. ABEL: ( sighing ) Now, don't get alarmed. These are just more sophisticated audiometry tests than I can run here. ( gesturing ) I mean, it's, it's nothing.
MICKEY: ( gesturing ) Well, if it's nothing, then why do I have to go into the hospital at all? I mean, uh, I hear perfectly fine, so I'm, so I'm a little weak on the, on the high decibels. So I, you know, I won't go to the opera.
DR. ABEL: ( sniffing ) You know, there's no reason for panic. I just want to rule out some things.
MICKEY: Like what?
DR. ABEL: ( shaking his head ) It's nothing. Will you trust me?
MICKEY: ( into the telephone ) Huh, uh, hello, Dr. Wilkes? Dr. Wilkes, this is Mickey Sachs. You have a minute? I want to ask you a
DR. WILKES: ( into the telephone ) Sure, Mickey. What's up? ( into the telephone, gesturing ) I-if you have, i-if you have a hearing loss in one ear, and-and it's not from a, uh, virus or a loud noise or anything, wh-what are the possibilities?
MICKEY: ( into the telephone, gesturing ) I-if you have, i-if you have a hearing loss in one ear, and-and it's not from a, uh, virus or a loud noise or anything, wh-what are the possibilities?
DR. WILKES: ( into his telephone ) Anything. Uh, often it's hereditary. Flu, uh, even a small noise will do ( into the telephone ) Uh, right, but-but nothing worse?
MICKEY: ( into the telephone ) Uh, right, but-but nothing worse?
DR. WILKES: ( into the telephone ) Well, yes, I guess the, uh, dark side of the spectrum is a brain ( into the telephone, reacting with a blank stare )
MICKEY: ( into the telephone, reacting with a blank stare )
GAIL: ( handing them each some pages of script ) Okay, so here's the new pages.
WOMAN: ( looking over the pages ) Say, did cards get these?
GAIL: ( scratching her head ) No, not yet. No.
MAN: ( looking over his pages ) Well, let's hope it's good.
GAIL: Yeah, really. Really.
GAIL: Eh, we'll be down in a minute, okay?
GAIL: Mickey, what's the matter with you? You're all white!
MICKEY: I feel dizzy. Sshh, you know, I don't feel well.
MICKEY: Do you hear a ringing? Is there, is there a, is there a ringing
GAIL: ( gesturing ) Yeah. Yeah, yeah. I hear, I hear
MICKEY: ( shaking his head ) N-n-no, not that.
GAIL: ( overlapping, into the telephone ) ( covering first one ear, then the other, continuing ) ( putting a finger into his ear, closing his eyes and listening )
MICKEY: ( covering first one ear, then the other, continuing ) ( putting a finger into his ear, closing his eyes and listening )
GAIL: ( into the telephone ) Uh, yeah, yeah. We're going to be working late tonight. N-no, we'll order out. It's all right. Yeah.
MICKEY: ( turning to Gail, gesturing nervously ) Sssss, if I have a brain tumor, I don't know what I'm gonna do. ( sighing )
GAIL: You don't have a brain tumor. He didn't say you had a brain tumor.
MICKEY: ( sighing ) No, naturally ( gesturing ) they're not gonna tell you, because, well, you know, th, sometimes the weaker ones will panic if you tell ( pointing a finger at Mickey ) But not you.
GAIL: ( pointing a finger at Mickey ) But not you.
MICKEY: ( flinging up his arms, sighing ) Oh, God! ( looking around worriedly and touching Gail's shoulder ) Do you hear a buzzing? Is there a
GAIL: ( impatiently ) Mickey, come on, we got a show to do!
MICKEY: ( pacing ) I can't keep my mind on the show.
GAIL: ( offscreen ) But there's nothing wrong with you.
MICKEY: ( sighing and gesturing ) If there's nothing wrong with me ( pacing back to the desk and Gail ) then why does he want me to come back for tests?!
GAIL: ( gesturing ) Well, he has to rule out certain ( sighing )
MICKEY: Like what?! What?
GAIL: ( shrugging ) I don't know. Cancer, I
MICKEY: ( interrupting ) Don't say that! I don't want to hear that word! ( gesturing ) Don't mention that while I'm in the ( gesturing ) But you don't have any symptoms!
GAIL: ( gesturing ) But you don't have any symptoms!
MICKEY: ( gesturing ) YouI got the classic symptoms of a brain tumor!
GAIL: Two months ago, you thought you had a malignant melanoma.
MICKEY: ( gesturing ) Naturally, I, IDo you know IThe sudden appearance of a black spot on my back!
GAIL: It was on your shirt!
MICKEY: ( sighing ) IHow was I to know?! ( pointing to his back ) Everyone was pointing back here.
GAIL: Come on, we've got to make some booking decisions.
MICKEY: I can't. I can't think of it. This morning, I was so happy, you know. Now I, I don't know what went wrong.
GAIL: Eh, you were miserable this morning! We got bad reviews, terrible ratings, the sponsors are furious.
MICKEY: ( pacing back to the desk, still wringing his hands ) No, I was happy, but I just didn't realize I was happy.
HOLLY: Oh, um, those are quail eggs.
HOLLY: ( nodding ) Yeah, my friend April makes those. ( holding out the tray ) Here, try the shrimp puffs. These are delicious.
HOLLY: I make those.
HOLLY: ( to two male guests in her way ) Excuse me.
HOLLY: ( to the man ) Thank you.
APRIL: ( offscreen ) The Stroganoff is ready.
HOLLY: ( animatedly ) We're a big hit.
APRIL: Oh, in this we're a big hit. Yesterday I auditioned for Come Back Little Sheba. That, I wasn't such a big hit.
HOLLY: ( offscreen ) You will be. You will be. You'll get five jobs next week.
DAVID: ( to Holly ) Excuse me, are there any more claims?
HOLLY: ( gesturing at some canapés warming on the stove ) Only a few. A few. ( chuckling as David takes one ) Do you like 'em?
DAVID: I can't resist.
HOLLY: ( busily working at the stove ) Really? How flattering! Did you try the shrimp puffs?
DAVID: ( eating a canapé and pointing at Holly ) Listen, you guys are too attractive to be caterers. Something's wrong.
HOLLY: We're actresses.
DAVID: Is this your first job?
HOLLY: ( grabbing a quiche from an overhead stove ) Really? Is the food that bad?
DAVID: ( shaking his head ) Oh no. Not at all. We need more bread and some baked ( realizing Holly isn't there and, at the same time, noticing David ) uh, lasagne. ( turning to David ) ( standing by the sink as he wipes his hands and mouth with a napkin ) I know. You're an actress with a great flair for shrimp puffs.
APRIL: We need more bread and some baked uh, lasagne. I know. You're an actress with a great flair for shrimp puffs.
DAVID: ( standing by the sink as he wipes his hands and mouth with a napkin ) I know. You're an actress with a great flair for shrimp puffs.
APRIL: ( working at the stove, pointing a finger for emphasis ) Uh, no, the shrimp puffs are Holly's. I do the, uh, crêpes
DAVID: And the quail is responsible for the quail eggs.
APRIL: ( turning to David and chuckling ) Well, let's hope so.
HOLLY: Here, I stole you a couple of extra Incidentally, I'm David Tolchin.
DAVID: ( taking the plate ) ( looking busily around the room ) ( overlapping, gesturing ) Incidentally, I'm David Tolchin.
HOLLY: ( looking busily around the room ) ( overlapping, gesturing ) Incidentally, I'm David Tolchin.
DAVID: ( overlapping, gesturing ) Incidentally, I'm David Tolchin.
APRIL: ( turning to David ) Oh, uh, April Knox. Hi.
DAVID: ( looking at her ) ( leaving the counter and squeezing past David and Holly ) ( overlapping, moving out of April's way ) I'm sorry.
APRIL: ( leaving the counter and squeezing past David and Holly ) ( overlapping, moving out of April's way ) I'm sorry.
HOLLY: ( overlapping, moving out of April's way ) I'm sorry.
DAVID: ( overlapping Holly's apology, turning to her ) You're Holly.
HOLLY: ( nodding, looking at David as she wipes her hands with the napkin ) Yeah, we're the Stanislavski Catering Company.
DAVID: ( chewing on a clam canapé ) Now I'm going to tell you the truth. I really came in here because I was bored stiff by the party.
HOLLY: ( laughing, still wiping her hands ) What makes you think we're more ( turning on the set ) Actually, I'm going to listen to Aida, if I'm not getting in your way.
DAVID: ( turning on the set ) Actually, I'm going to listen to Aida, if I'm not getting in your way.
APRIL: ( offscreen ) No.no. No ( sniffing )
HOLLY: ( offscreen, overlapping ) Not at all.
HOLLY: ( gesturing, fiddling with another napkin ) We saw, um, Pavarotti, eh, uh, in Ernani at the Met, and I cried.
DAVID: ( nodding, his hand still on his watch as he looks at Holly ) I cry at the opera.
APRIL: ( offscreen ) Oh, I-I-I go limp in the last scene in La Traviata. Limp.
DAVID: ( nodding, to April ) Me, too. I have a private box at the Met. ( gesturing ) I bring my little bottle of wine, I open it, I sit there and I watch ( glancing over to the offscreen Holly ) I cry. It's disgusting.
HOLLY: ( gesturing ) Oh, what, what do you do?
DAVID: ( nodding ) I'm an architect.
APRIL: ( turning to glance at Holly ) What kind of things do you build?
DAVID: Are you really interested?
APRIL: ( nodding ) What time do you get off?
HOLLY: ( nodding ) What time do you get off?
DAVID: What time do you get off?
HOLLY: ( offscreen ) Wow, it's the red one?
APRIL: ( offscreen ) Oh, it's magnificent!
DAVID: ( offscreen ) ( offscreen ) It's terrific!
HOLLY: ( offscreen ) It's terrific!
DAVID: ( gesturing, looking back and forth from the buildings to Holly and April ) The design's deliberately noncontextural. But I wanted to. keep the atmosphere of the street, you know, and the proportions.
HOLLY: ( nodding ) And in the material. That's.that's unpolished red ( pausing as he watches Holly and April's reaction )
DAVID: And in the material. That's.that's unpolished red
HOLLY: ( overlapping ) Oh, is that what it is?
APRIL: ( overlapping ) Oh, is that what it is?
HOLLY: ( starting to speak ) ( interrupting, nodding at Holly ) I-i-it has an o-organic quality, you know.
APRIL: ( interrupting, nodding at Holly ) I-i-it has an o-organic quality, you know.
HOLLY: ( nodding, overlapping ) ( looking back at the building with reverence ) It's almost.almost, uhhh, entirely wholly interdependent, if you know what I mean. I-I. I can't put it into words. The important thing is-is-is it-it breathes.
APRIL: ( looking back at the building with reverence ) It's almost.almost, uhhh, entirely wholly interdependent, if you know what I mean. I-I. I can't put it into words. The important thing is-is-is it-it breathes.
DAVID: ( turning to April, emphatically ) You know, April, people pass by vital structures in this city all the time, and they never take the time to appreciate them. I get the feeling you tune in to your ( shaking her head ) ( interrupting, gesturing and nodding ) Oh, it's really important.
APRIL: ( shaking her head ) ( interrupting, gesturing and nodding ) Oh, it's really important.
HOLLY: ( interrupting, gesturing and nodding ) Oh, it's really important.
APRIL: ( looking only at David ) What are your favorite buildings, You want to see some?
DAVID: You want to see some?
APRIL: ( nodding ) Oh, yeah.
DAVID: Well, let's do it.
APRIL: ( looking at David )
HOLLY: ( offscreen ) Oh, it's just so romantic. I just want to put on a long gown.
DAVID: ( offscreen, overlapping ) ( offscreen, continuing ) .and open the French doors and go on the balcony
HOLLY: ( offscreen, continuing ) .and open the French doors and go on the balcony
APRIL: ( offscreen, interrupting ) It's French, though. It really is.
HOLLY: ( offscreen ) ( offscreen, overlapping ) It feels like you're in France.
APRIL: ( offscreen, overlapping ) It feels like you're in France.
DAVID: ( offscreen, overlapping ) It-it is. It's romantic.
DAVID: ( offscreen ) And it's got a handsome partner sitting right beside it.
HOLLY: ( offscreen ) ( offscreen, overlapping ) They fit right in together. And your eye goes along, lulled into complacency, and then. ( offscreen ) That's just
DAVID: ( offscreen, overlapping ) They fit right in together. And your eye goes along, lulled into complacency, and then. ( offscreen ) That's just
APRIL: ( offscreen ) That's just
DAVID: ( offscreen, interrupting ) Look at this.
HOLLY: ( offscreen ) That's disgusting!
APRIL: ( offscreen, continuing ) .a monstrosity! Who would do that?
HOLLY: ( offscreen, overlapping ) It's really terrible.
DAVID: ( offscreen, emphatically ) It's really sad.
HOLLY: ( offscreen ) And it ruins everything else.
DAVID: ( offscreen, agreeing ) It does.
APRIL: ( offscreen ) Well.we have seen a lot of stuff today, though.
HOLLY: ( offscreen, chuckling ) ( offscreen, overlapping ) ( offscreen, overlapping ) A lot of works.
DAVID: ( offscreen, overlapping ) ( offscreen, overlapping ) A lot of works.
APRIL: ( offscreen, overlapping ) A lot of works.
HOLLY: ( nodding ) ( glancing at his watch ) Maybe we should start thinking about going home, huh?
DAVID: ( glancing at his watch ) Maybe we should start thinking about going home, huh?
HOLLY: Oh, geez, yeah.
APRIL: Oh, geez, yeah.
HOLLY: ( overlapped )
DAVID: ( looking back at the women as he walks around the car to the driver's side ) Uh, who gets dropped first?
APRIL: ( overlapping, looking at April ) Oh, gee, I don't know. Um.
HOLLY: ( overlapping, looking at April ) Oh, gee, I don't know. Um.
DAVID: ( offscreen, overlapping ) ( overlapping ) Well, I live downtown.
APRIL: ( overlapping ) Well, I live downtown.
HOLLY: ( glancing at April ) Yeah, I, we both live downtown.
APRIL: ( gesturing ) ( to David ) It depends on what way you want to ( overlapping ) Well, wait. You know what? I know.
HOLLY: ( to David ) It depends on what way you want to ( overlapping ) Well, wait. You know what? I know.
APRIL: ( overlapping ) Well, wait. You know what? I know.
HOLLY: ( to Holly, gesturing ) If.well, if we took the, if we took Fifth, then-then-then we'd get to your house first, yeah?
APRIL: ( to Holly, gesturing ) If.well, if we took the, if we took Fifth, then-then-then we'd get to your house first, yeah?
DAVID: ( overlapping, nodding ) We could.we could do that.
HOLLY: ( nodding ) Right. Yeah, but Fifth is so jammed, isn't it?
APRIL: ( overlapping, to Holly ) Well, sometimes, some, uh.
HOLLY: ( interrupting ) I mean, it's jammed. If we went.
DAVID: ( pointing to Holly, interrupting their chatter ) Y-you live in Chelsea, don't you?
HOLLY: ( nodding at David ) Well, I-I guess if you live in Chelsea, that's probably first.
DAVID: Well, I-I guess if you live in Chelsea, that's probably first.
HOLLY: ( nodding nervously ) Oh, okay.
APRIL: And then, uh, April.huh?
DAVID: And then, uh, April.huh?
APRIL: ( overlapping, nodding )
ELLIOT: ( trying not to sound out of breath ) Oh, my goodness!
LEE: ( overlapping, smiling in surprise ) Oh, Elliot!
ELLIOT: ( smiling ) What are you doing here?
LEE: ( smiling ) What are you doing here?
ELLIOT: ( looking around, gesturing ) Well, I'm-I'm looking for a ( shaking her head ) Oh, what, in this section of town?
LEE: ( shaking her head ) Oh, what, in this section of town?
ELLIOT: Yes. Yeah, I-I'm kill
LEE: ( overlapping ) You're out looking here?
ELLIOT: ( glancing at his watch again ) Well, yes, I'm killing time. I have a client near here and I.I'm quite early.
LEE: ( laughing ) ( gesturing ) How about you?
ELLIOT: ( gesturing ) How about you?
LEE: Oh. Well, I live
ELLIOT: ( interrupting, chuckling ) Oh, yes! You live near here, don't ( overlapping, chuckling ) Yes, I do.
LEE: ( overlapping, chuckling ) Yes, I do.
ELLIOT: ( putting his hands behind his back ) Where are you headed?
LEE: Oh, I was just going to my AA Oh, my goodness. Well, why do you still go to those? You never tough
ELLIOT: Oh, my goodness. Well, why do you still go to those? You never tough
LEE: ( laughing ) Well, listen, you didn't know me before Frederick. I'd.I'd start with a beer at about ten in the morning, and.go on.
ELLIOT: ( looking at Lee ) Oh. You must have been, uh, very Yeah, unhappy and fat. ( chuckling ) And I still find the meetings very comforting, you know.
LEE: Yeah, unhappy and fat. And I still find the meetings very comforting, you know.
ELLIOT: I'll never understand it. You're so bright and charming and beautiful.
LEE: ( laughing ) Oh, God.
ELLIOT: ( overlapping, chuckling ) I think to myself ( laughing ) what problems could she possibly ( gesturing, laughing ) Don't let me get started on my ( stopping in her tracks, remembering ) Oh, you know what? There is a ( stopping alongside her ) ( overlapping, pointing ) A couple of blocks from here. If you don't know about it, you should. You'd really love it.
LEE: ( gesturing, laughing ) Don't let me get started on my ( stopping in her tracks, remembering ) Oh, you know what? There is a ( stopping alongside her ) ( overlapping, pointing ) A couple of blocks from here. If you don't know about it, you should. You'd really love it.
ELLIOT: ( stopping alongside her ) ( overlapping, pointing ) A couple of blocks from here. If you don't know about it, you should. You'd really love it.
LEE: ( overlapping, pointing ) A couple of blocks from here. If you don't know about it, you should. You'd really love it.
ELLIOT: ( nodding ) Yeah, you would.
LEE: ( nodding ) Yeah, you would.
ELLIOT: ( looking around for a moment, then gesturing to Lee ) Well, i-if-if you have some free ( nodding ) Yeah, sure. ( chuckling )
LEE: ( nodding ) Yeah, sure. ( chuckling )
ELLIOT: Thank you.
LEE: ( offscreen ) Isn't this great? ( chuckling ) They have everything here.
ELLIOT: ( offscreen, distracted ) Yes, it's-it's wonderful.
LEE: ( offscreen ) What book did you want to buy?
ELLIOT: ( offscreen ) What? Book?
LEE: ( offscreen ) Your book? You wanted to buy a book?
ELLIOT: ( offscreen ) Oh, book? Oh, no, I. ( laughing ) I'm killing time. I.I-I just, uh, w-want to browse, uh.
LEE: ( looking up at a row of books ) Well, you sure picked the right place. I mean, you can stay here all afternoon, not buy anything and just read.
ELLIOT: ( offscreen ) Unless, of course, if-if you had some time, I mean, we could get some coffee.
LEE: No, I don't have time.
ELLIOT: ( gesturing ) No, no. I-I-I understand completely. No problem. Y-you're busy. I-I-I.
LEE: ( offscreen, chuckling ) You seem tense. Is everything all right? You feel okay?
ELLIOT: ( overlapping ) No! No.
LEE: ( offscreen ) ( gesturing, looking at books ) Uh, yes!
ELLIOT: ( gesturing, looking at books ) Uh, yes!
LEE: ( offscreen )
ELLIOT: ( offscreen momentarily, hidden by a shelf as he talks ) ( offscreen ) Everything's okay? ( chuckling )
LEE: ( offscreen ) Everything's okay? ( chuckling )
ELLIOT: Yeah. How are you?
LEE: ( offscreen ) I'm.all right.
ELLIOT: ( offscreen momentarily, hidden by another shelf as he walks ) How-how's Frederick?
LEE: ( offscreen ) Fine. Oh, we went to the Caravaggio exhibition at the Met. It's such a treat to go through a museum with Frederick. I mean.you learn so much. Do you like Caravaggio?
ELLIOT: ( turning to talk to the offscreen Lee ) Oh, yes. Who doesn't? ( pointing )
ELLIOT: ( pointing to a book on a shelf, continuing ) e.e. cummings. I'd like to get you ( offscreen, laughing ) Oh, no, I can't let you get me that. That's too much.
LEE: ( offscreen, laughing ) Oh, no, I can't let you get me that. That's too much.
ELLIOT: ( pulling the book off the shelf and browsing through it ) Oh, oh, yes. I-I-I-'d like to, uh, uh, very much.
LEE: ( offscreen ) No, I don't think so.
ELLIOT: ( gesturing with the book, looking at the offscreen Lee ) I-I read a poem of you and thought of his last week. ( nervously laughing, trying to correct his mistake ) A poem of ( laughing ) his and thought of you last ( laughing ) You'll be fine, though. ( chuckling )
LEE: ( overlapping ) Uh, uh, this is great. I mean, I love e.e. cummings, but I can't let you get this.
ELLIOT: ( overlapping, patting the book ) Yes, I'd.I-I-I'd love, I'd love to get you this.
LEE: ( looking down at the book ) Well, sure.
ELLIOT: ( overlapping ) And-and maybe, um.maybe we could discuss it sometime.
LEE: ( laughing, holding up the bag ) Well, thanks a lot.
ELLIOT: ( pointing to the bookstore ) Thanks for showing me the bookstore. Perhaps you could, uh, take me to an AA meeting sometime. Uh.uh, I'd love to see what goes on.
LEE: ( nodding ) Well, yeah, yeah. You'd love it. It's really entertaining. You'd have a good time. ( stepping closer to the curb and hailing a cab ) I know you would.
ELLIOT: ( pointing to the book ) And, uh, d-don't forget the poem on page a hundred and twelve. It reminded me of you.
LEE: ( laughing ) Really? Well. ( leaning down to talk to Lee in the cab ) Page a hundred and twelve.
ELLIOT: ( leaning down to talk to Lee in the cab ) Page a hundred and twelve.
LEE: ( closing the taxi door for Lee )
ELLIOT: ( closing the taxi door for Lee )
DR. GREY: I wasn't too happy with the results of your ENG or your BSER either.
DR. GREY: Uh, which is why I sent you to Tomography, which was all that stuff you saw rolling around. You see this little gray area here?
DR. GREY: That gray area's what I had hoped that we wouldn't run into. I'd like you to come in Monday morning for, uh, a CAT scan.
MICKEY: ( reacting ) A brain scan?
DR. GREY: ( gesturing ) Mr. Sachs, let's take one step at a time. We won't make any decisions until we have all the information in front of us, all right?
DR. SMITH: ( gesturing with one hand ) I'm sorry to say, Mr. Sachs, that you cannot have children. ( reacting, putting his hands across his chest ) ( reacting ) Is there no chance?
MICKEY: ( reacting, putting his hands across his chest ) ( reacting ) Is there no chance?
HANNAH: ( reacting ) Is there no chance?
DR. SMITH: ( getting up from his desk ) Well, naturally, this doesn't mean that you can't have a normal sex ( walking over to the opened office door and closing it ) But Mr. Sachs's tests indicate that he is infertile. Small sperm volume and infertile.
MICKEY: ( gesturing, looking up at an offscreen Dr. Smith ) Isn't there anything I can do? Push-ups or hormones?
DR. SMITH: ( offscreen ) I'm afraid not.
MICKEY: Well, I gotta get a second opinion.
HANNAH: ( turning to Mickey ) This is the second opinion.
MICKEY: ( shrugging ) Well, then a third opinion.
DR. SMITH: I realize this is a blow. My experience is that many very fine marriages become unstable and are destroyed by an inability to deal with this sort of problem. I hope you won't make too much of it. One can adopt children, and there are various artificial methods of
MICKEY: ( gesturing ) I'm so humiliated. I don't know what to say. I mean
HANNAH: ( interrupting, wiping her eyes with her tissue ) Could you have ruined yourself ( gesturing ) How could I ruin myself? What do you mean, ruin myself?
MICKEY: ( gesturing ) How could I ruin myself? What do you mean, ruin myself?
HANNAH: ( overlapping, looking at Mickey ) I don't know. Excessive Hey, you gonna start knocking my hobbies? Jesus!
MICKEY: Hey, you gonna start knocking my hobbies? Jesus!
MICKEY: Maybe, maybe we can adopt a child. He said you could adopt one
HANNAH: ( interrupting ) Well, what about artificial ( gesturing ) What are you talking about?
MICKEY: ( gesturing ) What are you talking about?
HANNAH: ( overlapping ) You know, where I-I-I would get implanted from a-a donor.
MICKEY: ( reacting ) What, by a st-stranger? Yeah, they have these banks, you know, where they keep them frozen.
HANNAH: Yeah, they have these banks, you know, where they keep them frozen.
MICKEY: ( gesturing ) Fro? You want a-a defrosted kid? Is that your idea?
HANNAH: I want to experience childbirth.
MICKEY: With a, with a stranger? With a
HANNAH: ( interrupting, sniffing ) Just think about it. That's all I
CAROL: ( putting down her cup ) Oh, that was a wonderful show. I think that's the best show you two ever wrote.
NORMAN: ( holding his cup, pointing emphatically ) No, the funniest show that Mickey and I ever did was the one we won the Emmy for.
MICKEY: Yeah.I-I think as, I think as far as laughs, I mean just plain laughs, you know, that was probably the best thing that we ever did.
NORMAN: ( agreeing ) ( overlapping, her hands over her crossed knees and nodding ) Yeah, it was funny, it was very funny. But the show was about the two Frenchmen, now that was funny and it was warm.
CAROL: ( overlapping, her hands over her crossed knees and nodding ) Yeah, it was funny, it was very funny. But the show was about the two Frenchmen, now that was funny and it was warm.
NORMAN: ( to Carol, gesturing with his cup ) We got that idea on that trip to ( nodding ) ( smiling ) ( to the offscreen Hannah ) Do you remember that summer in France? Hannah, you had jet lag for six straight weeks.
CAROL: ( nodding ) ( smiling ) ( to the offscreen Hannah ) Do you remember that summer in France? Hannah, you had jet lag for six straight weeks.
NORMAN: ( smiling ) ( to the offscreen Hannah ) Do you remember that summer in France? Hannah, you had jet lag for six straight weeks.
CAROL: ( to the offscreen Hannah ) Do you remember that summer in France? Hannah, you had jet lag for six straight weeks.
MICKEY: ( sighing, almost mumbling ) Yeah, but it was, you know, I guess we had fun when we were there and, you know, it's just, I
NORMAN: ( overlapping, nodding )
HANNAH: ( to Mickey ) ( to Norman and Carol ) Coffee? Listen, you guys, we were You want some more?
NORMAN: ( holding out his cup ) ( refilling Norman's cup ) We-we.we had something we-we really wanted to discuss with you.
HANNAH: ( refilling Norman's cup ) We-we.we had something we-we really wanted to discuss with you.
MICKEY: ( overlapping, coughing )
MICKEY: ( standing up and gesturing ) Jeez, this is, this is, this is very delicate and-and I only bring this up amongst friends, you know.
MICKEY: ( turning to the group as he paces behind the couch ) I mean. ( grunting ) this is, uh. this should not go any further than this room.
NORMAN: ( sipping his coffee ) I'm all ears. ( gesturing and pacing ) Hannah and I.can't have any children. Now I-I-I don't want to get into whose fault it ( gesturing ) It's my fault that we can't and- and-and the details are too embarrassing to
MICKEY: ( gesturing and pacing ) Hannah and I.can't have any children. Now I-I-I don't want to get into whose fault it ( gesturing ) It's my fault that we can't and- and-and the details are too embarrassing to
HANNAH: ( interrupting, nervously picking at her fingers ) W-w-we-we've decided after a lot of discussion that we-we'd try with artificial insemination.
MICKEY: ( putting his hands on his hips ) Yeah, I'm not so sure that I, that I like that idea myself, anyway
HANNAH: ( overlapping ) Um, I-I didn't really want to, you know, go to a sperm bank or something, have some anonymous ( gesturing at Norman and Carol ) I-I just, you know, I-I-I wouldn't want that.
MICKEY: ( pacing ) Right. We felt that if we were gonna do it, that we would like somebody who we knew and who we liked and who was warm and bright
HANNAH: And you can say no. you know. Feel free to say no. W-we realize it has all kinds of implications.
MICKEY: Yeah, but the-the point that, uh, that we're making here is that we need some sperm.
NORMAN: ( sighing ) ( chuckling ) Well. My first reaction after the initial shock is, uh, flattered that you would ask me. ( chuckling nervously )
MICKEY: ( pointing at himself ) Yeah, well, I would be the father. ( pointing to Norman ) You would just have to masturbate into a little cup.
NORMAN: ( shrugging ) I can handle that.
HANNAH: ( scooting closer to Carol and Norman on the couch, gesturing ) Obviously we wou-wouldn't have
CAROL: ( to Hannah, chuckling nervously briefly ) Gosh, listen. ( rubbing her nose ) I've gotta tell you the truth here. I'm a little uneasy about this.
HANNAH: ( putting her hand on Carol's shoulder ) Carol, I know it's a lot to ask.
CAROL: ( gesturing ) Well.I feel for you. I do. I.I'm gonna cry. You want my husband to have a child with you?
HANNAH: ( gesturing ) Ye D-d-d-don't answer now. Just, you know, take it home and think about it for a while.
NORMAN: ( holding his coffee cup, thoughtful ) I gave blood before and, uh. clothing to the poor.
CAROL: ( to Norman, scratching her ear ) Okay, Norman, listen, I really want to talk about this at home. ( nodding as Hannah looks briefly offscreen at Mickey ) I think it's a matter for your analyst.and mine.
NORMAN: ( emphatically ) And maybe my lawyer.
HANNAH: ( gesturing ) You know, we-we understand completely if, you know, if you feel you'd-you'd rather not. ( chuckling nervously ) I didn't mean to spoil the evening. ( rubbing her hands ) Now let's move on to another topic.
ELLIOT: ( leading the way into the loft, gesturing ) Lee, Frederick.say hello to Dusty
LEE: ( shaking Dusty's hand ) Hi, Dusty.
DUSTY: Lee chuckles as she looks at him; he is wearing sunglasses, a red-imprinted T-shirt, and a baggy coat. She turns and walks with Frederick, Elliot, and Dusty farther into the loft, her hands clasped behind her back.
ELLIOT: ( as he walks ) Dusty's just bought a huge house in Southampton and he's in the process of decorating it.
DUSTY: Yeah. It's kind of a weird place, actually. A lotta wall space.
LEE: They walk into the living room area of the loft, where Frederick, his hands in his pockets, neatly attired in vest sweater and white shirt, stands, waiting.
DUSTY: ( to Frederick, giving him a "hip" handshake ) How ya doin', man?
ELLIOT: ( to a less than enthusiastic Frederick ) I told him about your work, and he's very excited.
DUSTY: Yeah, I got an Andy Warhol. And I got a Frank Stella, too. Oh, it's very beautiful. Big, weird.you know. If you stare at that Stella too long, the colors just seem to float. It's kinda weird.
LEE: ( chuckling, her arms crossed ) Are you excited about becoming a ( nodding ) ( shrugging ) I got a lot more to learn, though. I really wasn't into art when I was a kid.
DUSTY: ( nodding ) ( shrugging ) I got a lot more to learn, though. I really wasn't into art when I was a kid.
LEE: ( nodding ) ( shrugging ) I got a lot more to learn, though. I really wasn't into art when I was a kid.
DUSTY: ( shrugging ) I got a lot more to learn, though. I really wasn't into art when I was a kid.
LEE: ( nodding ) ( addressing but not looking at Dusty ) Do you appreciate drawings?
FREDERICK: ( addressing but not looking at Dusty ) Do you appreciate drawings?
DUSTY: ( shrugging ) ( chuckling as he notices and points to some offscreen drawings Frederick has set up ) Oh! Hey! Wow! ( pointing to an offscreen nude drawing ) She's beautiful. But, uh, really, I-I-I-I need something. I'm looking for something big.
LEE: ( looking at an offscreen Frederick, gesturing ) Big. Frederick, show him the oils.
FREDERICK: ( offscreen ) They're in the basement.
LEE: ( to Dusty ) Frederick's done this whole new series that I'm sure you would really love.
DUSTY: ( overlapping, muttering ) Well, are.are they big?
LEE: Yeah. Some of them.yeah, some of them are very big.
DUSTY: 'Cause I got a lot of wall space
FREDERICK: ( angrily stopping in his tracks ) I don't sell my work by the yard!
LEE: ( chuckling, reacting ) Oh, Frederick!
ELLIOT: ( chuckling softly ) How's everything?
LEE: ( walking onscreen towards Elliot ) Oh, you know.I talked to Hannah this morning on the phone, and she said that you two might be going to the country for the weekend.
ELLIOT: Yeah, she loves to go out in the Oh, yeah.
LEE: ( nodding, her arms clasped around her chest ) Oh, yeah.
ELLIOT: ( chuckling ) But I go nuts. It's a conflict.
LEE: I have to get my teeth cleaned this Oh, that's nice.
ELLIOT: Oh, that's nice.
ELLIOT: ( breaking the silence, pointing in the direction of the door ) I figured I'd get, uh, Frederick and Dusty together.
LEE: ( looking in the same direction, gesturing ) Oh, yeah, that's really nice of you.
ELLIOT: Yes. This kid, he's earned a trillion dollars.
LEE: ( nodding, wrapping her arms around her chest again ) He's got like six gold records.
ELLIOT: He's got like six gold records.
LEE: ( gesturing, relieved that she's found something to say ) Oh, speaking of records.I bought that Mozart Trio you recommended.
LEE: ( continuing ) .and the man in the record shop showed me another one that I think you'd love. It's a. another Bach, second movement. ( offscreen ) Oh, you-you have that one?
ELLIOT: ( offscreen ) Oh, you-you have that one?
LEE: ( working at the stereo, turning her head towards Elliot ) ( offscreen ) Oh, I would love to hear it.
ELLIOT: ( offscreen ) Oh, I would love to hear it.
LEE: ( putting the turntable cover in place ) Oh, and Holly met a wonderful man who loves opera. An architect.
ELLIOT: ( offscreen ) Oh, that's nice. I'd love to see her wind up settled. She's a tense ( chuckling )
LEE: ( intently ) Isn't that beautiful?
ELLIOT: ( looking at Lee, his hands clasped in front of him ) I know this. Bach. F Minor Concerto. It's one of my favorites.
ELLIOT: ( after a pause ) Uh.did you ever get around to e.e. ( wrapping her arms around her chest and looking away from Elliot for a moment ) Yes, he's just adorable.
LEE: ( wrapping her arms around her chest and looking away from Elliot for a moment ) Yes, he's just adorable.
LEE: ( awkwardly ) They have a very large gay clientele, you know, where I get my teeth cleaned, and.all the hygienists now wear gloves because they're afraid of AIDS.
ELLIOT: ( taking a breath ) Oh, right.
ELLIOT: ( softly ) Did you ever get around to the poem on page a hundred and twelve?
LEE: Yes, it made me cry it was so beautiful.so romantic.
LEE: ( showing Elliot a poem in her book ) Did you ever read this one?
LEE: Elliot! Don't!
ELLIOT: Lee! Lee! Lee, I'm in love with
ELLIOT: ( breathing hard ) ( gasping ) What are you doing?!
LEE: ( gasping ) What are you doing?!
ELLIOT: ( frantically ) I.I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm sorry. I have to talk to you for. There's so much that I want to tell you.
LEE: ( still gasping ) ( gesturing desperately ) I have been in love with you for so
ELLIOT: ( gesturing desperately ) I have been in love with you for so
FREDERICK: ( angrily ) Please forget it! I don't have any interest in selling anything!
DUSTY: ( gesturing ) I ask you if you have something with a little puce in it, you gotta fly off the handle!
LEE: ( in a slightly higher-pitched voice ) What's the problem?
FREDERICK: ( pulling the nude drawings off his easel angrily ) I'm not interested in what your interior decorator would think, ( overlapping, gesturing ) Well, I can't commit to anything without consulting her first. That's what I have her for, okay?
DUSTY: ( overlapping, gesturing ) Well, I can't commit to anything without consulting her first. That's what I have her for, okay?
FREDERICK: ( carrying the drawings off ) This is degrading! You don't buy paintings to blend in with the sofa!
DUSTY: ( looking after Frederick ) It's not a sofa, it's an ottoman! ( touching his forehead, turning to Elliot ) God, forget it! Let's just get outta here, Elliot.
ELLIOT: ( putting down the book ) We'll go.
DUSTY: ( angrily, getting into the car ) What a weirdo that guy is! Paranoid. ( noticing Elliot's anguished face ) What's the matter with you?
ELLIOT: ( gesturing ) Look I-I-I'll be okay. I'll be okay.
DUSTY: ( overlapping ) It's not that big a deal. We just didn't hit it off.
ELLIOT: ( gesturing ) Now, look, you-you-you go on ahead.
DUSTY: Are you okay? You look You're Yeah. Yeah, I just-just need so- some-some fresh air. It's probably something I ate. I'll-I'll walk. You go ahead.
ELLIOT: ( overlapping, nervously ) Yeah. Yeah, I just-just need so- some-some fresh air. It's probably something I ate. I'll-I'll walk. You go ahead.
ELLIOT: ( continuing, gesturing ) You go. Go on. Go.
FREDERICK: ( into the telephone ) Hello? Hello? Hello?
LEE: ( gesturing in relief ) Oh! There you are!
LEE: I was looking for you.
ELLIOT: ( gesturing ) I, I must apologize. I-I'm, I-I'm sorry. I'm so mixed up.
LEE: ( gesturing ) Well, how do you expect me to react to such a thing?
ELLIOT: ( taking Lee's arm ) Wh, uh, I know, I know but, I am in love with you.
LEE: Oh, don't say those words!
ELLIOT: ( overlapping, shaking his head ) I-I, I'm sorry. I know it's ( pushing back her hair, shaking her head hopelessly ) Why, you know the situation.
LEE: ( pushing back her hair, shaking her head hopelessly ) Why, you know the situation.
ELLIOT: ( looking away for a moment ) I know! I-I-I-I, I realize.
LEE: What do you expect me to say?
ELLIOT: Hannah and I are in the last stages.
LEE: ( shaking her head ) Wh She's never said anything, and we're very close. She'd tell me such a thing.
ELLIOT: Wh, it-it-it-it, it's so sad. She's crazy about me, but somewhere on the, along the line, I've fallen out of love with her.
LEE: Not because of me, I hope.
ELLIOT: Oh, no, no. Well, yes! I love you.
LEE: Oh, I can't be the cause of anything between you and Hannah. I jus
ELLIOT: ( overlapping, shaking his head ) Oh, no, no, no. It, uh, it-it-it- it was i-inevitable that Hannah and I part, anyway.
LEE: Tch, w-well, for a million reasons.
ELLIOT: Tch, w-well, for a million reasons.
LEE: ( gesturing ) But not over me?
ELLIOT: Tch, no! We were, we were both going in different directions.
LEE: ( looking down ) Poor Hannah.
ELLIOT: But-but, but how about you? Do you, do you share any of my feelings? Or is this just an unpleasant embarrassment to you?
LEE: ( reacting uneasily ) I can't say anything!
ELLIOT: W-well, please be candid. I, I-I don't want you to feel bad.
LEE: ( putting her hand to her head ) Yes! But I.I have certain feelings for you, but don't make me say anything more, all right?
ELLIOT: ( gesturing ) O-o-o-okay, Lee. Okay, okay. You, you, y-you've said enough. It's my responsibility now. I will work things out.
LEE: Look, don't do anything on my I live with Frederick, and Hannah and I are close.
ELLIOT: Yes, but you, you do care about me.
LEE: ( reacting ) Oh, Elliot, please! I can't be a party to this! I'm suddenly wracked with guilt just standing her talking to you on the street!
ELLIOT: ( emphatically ) Your guilt is because you feel the ( reacting ) Oh, please, I have to go. I have to get my teeth cleaned.
LEE: ( reacting ) Oh, please, I have to go. I have to get my teeth cleaned.
ELLIOT: ( happily ) I have my answer. I have my answer! I'm walking on air!
HANNAH: ( distracted ) Hi. How's she doing?
EVAN: ( overlapping ) I am glad to see you. She's in the kitchen there. It's the same thing. Same thing. She promises, promises. ( gesturing ) But it's all lies.
EVAN: She's in the kitchen there. It's the same thing. Same thing. She promises, promises. But it's all lies.
HANNAH: ( offscreen, patiently ) Don't make it worse, Dad.
EVAN: ( overlapping )
HANNAH: Hi, Mom. How you doing? Here, let me get you some coffee. That's enough of that. What triggered it?
EVAN: ( gesturing, as Norma turns her head and watches him ) We were making a commercial down at the mayor's office, and there was this young, good-looking salesman.
EVAN: ( continuing ) .and your mother was throwing herself at him in a disgusting way, and when she found she was too old to seduce him, that he was just embarrassed by her
NORMA: ( angrily interrupting, turning her head ) Liar! Liar!
EVAN: Then at lunch she got drunker and and finally she became Joan Collins!
NORMA: ( offscreen ) All my life I've had to put up with
NORMA: ( continuing, dramatically ) .from this non-person, this, th- th-this haircut that passes for a ( turning to look at the offscreen Hannah ) He could never support us. It's a good thing we had a talented
EVAN: I can only hope that she was mine. With you as her mother her father could be anybody in Actors' Equity!
NORMA: She's talented.so it's not likely she's yours!
HANNAH: ( walking over to the doorway to speak to Evan, who's already fuming in the den ) Dad, could you just please stay in the other room and let me take care of her?
EVAN: ( offscreen, choosing to ignore Hannah's suggestion ) You never know when she's going to fall off the wagon and humiliate
HANNAH: Here, Mom. Drink this. You know, you're awful. You probably were flirting.
NORMA: ( sipping her coffee ) No! I like to joke around and have fun, and he gets angry because I get the attention. He's gotten sourer as he's gotten older, and I've tried to stay young.at heart.
HANNAH: You promised to stay on the wagon.
NORMA: ( shaking her head ) The sacrifices I've made because of that man. ( inhaling ) He's ruined me with his ego, his philandering, his ( gesturing ) his-his-his-his mediocrity!
HANNAH: Okay, stop being so dramatic.
NORMA: ( shouting to the offscreen Evan ) He's the one that's made every ingenue in stock!
HANNAH: ( quietly ) Okay, okay.
NORMA: ( touching Hannah's arm, gasping ) Th-th-they, they wanted me for a screen test.
HANNAH: ( patiently ) Yeah, I know, Mom.
NORMA: ( gesturing ) But I, I knew that he'd get up there and he'd flounder around with his expensive haircuts and hairdos and clothes. He's all show! ( touching Hannah's arm again, then touching her chest ) Now how can you act when there's nothing inside to come out?!
NORMA: You know, of all of us in the family, you were the one blessed with the true gift.
HANNAH: ( holding the hand her mother had placed on her shoulder ) Ohhh, my true gift is luck, Mom.
HANNAH: ( overlapping ) I just had a lot of luck.from my first show, you know? I've always thought Lee was the one destined for great things.
NORMA: Yes, she's lovely, but she doesn't have your spark. She knows it. She worships you. She wouldn't dare get up there on the stage.
HANNAH: ( looking at her mother ) Now, Holly's not shy.
NORMA: No, Holly's game for anything. Holly takes after me.
HANNAH: ( shaking her head ) I'd have been a great dope addict.
NORMA: ( shaking her head ) I'd have been a great dope addict.
EVAN: ( looking up ) Remember this, Hannah?
DR. BROOKS: Mr. Sachs, I'm afraid the news is not good.
DR. BROOKS: ( continuing, taking a pencil out of his pocket ) If I can show you exactly where the tumor is, and why we feel that surgery would be of no use.
DR. BROOKS: ( offscreen ) .grown quite large without being ( trailing off indistinctly as Mickey continues his anguished ramblings )
DR. BROOKS: Well, you're just fine. There's absolutely nothing here at all. And your tests are all fine. I must admit, I was concerned, given your symptoms. What caused this hearing loss in one ear, I guess we'll never really know for sure. But whatever it was, it's certainly not anything serious at all. I'm very relieved.
GAIL: What do you mean you're quitting? Why? The news is good! You don't have cancthe thing.
MICKEY: Do you realize what a thread we're all hanging by?
GAIL: ( offscreen ) Mickey, you're off the hook. You should be celebrating.
MICKEY: ( walking around to the front of his desk, gesturing ) Can you understand how meaningless everything is? Everything! I'm talking about nnnnour lives, the show.the whole world, it's ( gesturing ) Yeah.but you're not dying!
GAIL: ( gesturing ) Yeah.but you're not dying!
MICKEY: No, I'm not dying now, but, but you know, when I ran out of the hospital, I, I was so thrilled because they told me I was going to be all right. And I'm running down the street, and suddenly I stop, 'cause it hit me, all right, so, you know, I'm not going to go today. I'm okay. I'm not going to go But eventually, I'm going to be in that position.
GAIL: You're just realizing this now?
MICKEY: ( offscreen ) Well, I don't realize it now, I know it all the time, but, but I managed to stick it in the back of my mind. .because it-it's a very horrible thing to. think about!
MICKEY: .because it-it's a very horrible thing to. think about!
GAIL: ( muttering ) Yeah. What?
MICKEY: ( turning to Gail ) Can I tell you something? Can I tell you a secret?
GAIL: ( nodding impatiently as she walks around the desk ) Yes, please.
MICKEY: ( pointing ) A week ago, I bought a rifle.
GAIL: ( sitting on the arm of a chair near Mickey ) ( overlapping, nodding and gesturing ) I went into a store, I bought a rifle. I was gonna. You know, if they told me that I had a tumor, I was going to kill myself. The only thing that mighta stopped me, might've, is my parents would be devastated. I would, I woulda had to shoot them, also, first. And then, I have an aunt and uncle, I would have. You know, it would have been a bloodbath.
MICKEY: ( overlapping, nodding and gesturing ) I went into a store, I bought a rifle. I was gonna. You know, if they told me that I had a tumor, I was going to kill myself. The only thing that mighta stopped me, might've, is my parents would be devastated. I would, I woulda had to shoot them, also, first. And then, I have an aunt and uncle, I would have. You know, it would have been a bloodbath.
GAIL: ( shrugging, unwrapping a stick of gum ) Tch, well, you know, eventually it, it is going to happen to all of us.
MICKEY: Yes, but doesn't that ruin everything for you? That makes
MICKEY: ( continuing ) .you know it, it just takes the pleasure out of everything. ( gesturing, pointing ) I mean, you're gonna die, I'm gonna die, the audience is gonna die, the network's gonna The sponsor. ( chewing ) I know, I know, and your hamster.
GAIL: ( chewing ) I know, I know, and your hamster.
MICKEY: ( nodding emphatically ) ( chewing and pointing to Mickey ) Listen, kid, I think you snapped your cap.
GAIL: ( chewing and pointing to Mickey ) Listen, kid, I think you snapped your cap.
GAIL: ( continuing, chewing loudly ) Maybe you need a few weeks in Bermuda, or something. Or go to a whorehouse! No?
MICKEY: ( shaking his head, his hand to his chest ) I can't stay on this show. I gotta get some answers. Otherwise ( pausing and holding his head ) I'm telling you, I'm going to do something drastic.
ELLIOT: ( looking intensely at Lee, his hands in his pockets ) I thought you weren't coming.
LEE: I almost didn't.
ELLIOT: ( putting his hand on her shoulder, wanting to kiss her ) Lee. uh.
LEE: I didn't sleep all night.
ELLIOT: ( taking his hand away, gesturing to the room ) No, no-no-no, I'm sure.
LEE: What are we doing, meeting in a hotel room? It's terrible, isn't it?
ELLIOT: ( offscreen ) I-I couldn't think where to invite you without taking risks.
LEE: I promised myself I wouldn't let this happen till you were living alone. I was so torn when you
ELLIOT: ( offscreen ) I've wanted to call you everyday since I first told you how I felt.
ELLIOT: I resisted so many times. Don't think badly of me.
ELLIOT: This is not an easy situation.
LEE: ( whispering ) I know it isn't.
LEE: That was just perfect. You've ruined me for anyone else.
ELLIOT: ( offscreen ) I don't want anyone else ever to have you.
LEE: ( sighing ) I was so worried I wouldn't compare with Hannah.
ELLIOT: ( offscreen, laughing ) Oh, my God.
ELLIOT: You really do have those thoughts, don't you?
LEE: ( chuckling, touching Elliot's arm ) Oh, all the time.
LEE: I know she must be a really passionate person.
ELLIOT: ( looking at their clasped hands ) Yes, she's, she's very warm, but, but it-it's me that wants to be giving to you. I-I-I want to do things for you. Hannah doesn't need me as much. ( chuckling as Lee laughs ) I'm being presumptuous. Not that you need me.
LEE: ( nodding ) I want you to take care of me. And I love when you do things to me.
FREDERICK: ( offscreen ) You're late.
LEE: ( opening the bathroom door ) Lucy and I kept talking, and I didn't realize how late it had ( barely glancing up from his paper ) You missed a very dull TV show about Auschwitz. More gruesome film clips.and more puzzled intellectuals declaring their mystification over the systematic murder of millions.
FREDERICK: ( barely glancing up from his paper ) You missed a very dull TV show about Auschwitz. More gruesome film clips.and more puzzled intellectuals declaring their mystification over the systematic murder of millions.
FREDERICK: ( turning his head slightly in Lee's direction and gesturing ) The reason why they could never answer the question "How could it possibly happen?" is that it's the wrong question. Given what people are, the question is ( swallowing ) "Why doesn't it happen more often?" Of course it does, in subtler forms.
LEE: ( moving her fingers through her wet hair ) I have a little headache from this
FREDERICK: ( grunting, sipping his coffee ) It's been ages since I sat in front of the TV. just changing channels to find something.
FREDERICK: You see the whole culture.Nazis, deodorant salesman, wrestlers.beauty contests, the talk show. Can you imagine the level of a mind that watches Hmm? But the worst are the fundamentalist preachers.third- rate con men, telling the poor suckers that watch them that they speak for Jesus.and to please send in money. Money, money, money! If Jesus came back, and saw what's going on in his name, he'd never stop throwing
LEE: ( impatiently, her hands in her hair ) Oh, God, Frederick, could you please lighten up?! I'm really not in the mood to hear a review of contemporary society again.
FREDERICK: ( standing up from the table ) You know, you've been very nervous ( sighing ) I can't take this anymore.
LEE: ( sighing ) I can't take this anymore.
FREDERICK: ( walking over to the bed ) I'm just trying to complete an education I started on you five years ago.
LEE: ( unbuttoning her blouse ) I'm not your pupil. ( sighing, her hands at her side ) I was, but I'm not.
FREDERICK: ( sitting down on the edge of the bed ) When you leave the nest, I just want you to be ready to face the real world.
LEE: ( putting her hand on Frederick's leg ) Frederick, we're going to have to make some changes.
FREDERICK: ( quickly looking at Lee, alarmed ) Like what?
LEE: Oh, you know what. I'm suffocating!
FREDERICK: ( turning away, his hands clasped in front of him ) Oh! Are we going to have this conversation again?
LEE: Yes, we're going to have this conversation again. I.I have to leave. I have to move out.
FREDERICK: ( shaking his clasped hands intensely ) ( sighing ) Because I have to!
LEE: ( sighing ) Because I have to!
FREDERICK: ( emotionally ) What are you going to use for money?!
LEE: I don't know. I thought, maybe I'd move in with my parents for a while.
FREDERICK: Tch, oh. I always told you you would leave me. But.does it have to be now?
LEE: ( hugging her arm with her other hand ) Well, maybe it'll only be temporary, but I haI have to try.
FREDERICK: ( taking Lee's head in his hands and looking at her ) Oh.Lee, you are my whole world. ( pausing ) Good God! Have you been kissed ( reacting, pushing Frederick's hands from her face ) ( reacting ) Oh, yes, you have!
LEE: ( reacting, pushing Frederick's hands from her face ) ( reacting ) Oh, yes, you have!
FREDERICK: ( reacting ) Oh, yes, you have!
LEE: ( quickly standing up, defensively ) ( raising his voice ) You've been with someone!
FREDERICK: ( raising his voice ) You've been with someone!
LEE: ( overlapping, running away from the bed ) Stop accusing me!
FREDERICK: ( offscreen ) I'm too smart, Lee! You can't fool me! You're turning all red!
LEE: Leave me alone! Oh, Christ! What's wrong with you?!
FREDERICK: ( angrily ) Oh, Christ! What's wrong with you?!
LEE: ( leaning against the refrigerator, sighing ) I'm sorry.
FREDERICK: Oh, couldn't you say something? You have to slither around behind my back!
LEE: ( overlapping, her voice emotionally raised ) I'm saying it now!
FREDERICK: So you met somebody else?
LEE: ( sighing, nodding )
LEE: ( walking into the bathroom ) But you, God, you knew that was going to happen sooner or later. I can't live like this!
FREDERICK: ( turning to face Lee in the bathroom, his arms crossed ) Who is it?
LEE: ( frantically putting things in her purse, glaring at Frederick ) What's the difference?! It's just somebody I met!
FREDERICK: But who? Where did you meet him?
LEE: It doesn't make a difference! I have to move out!
FREDERICK: You are, you are my only connection to the world!
LEE: ( gesturing emotionally ) Oh, God, that's too much responsibility for me. It's not fair! I want a less complicated life, Frederick. I want a husband, maybe even a child before it's too ( reacting, his face in his hand ) ( gesturing, moving closer to Frederick ) Oh, God, I don't even know what I ( sighing heavily, reacting ) ( rubbing Frederick's shoulder tenderly ) Tch, oh, what do you get out of me, anyway? I mean. ( laying her head against his shoulder, sighing deeply ) it's not sexual anymore. It's certainly not intellectual. I mean, you're so superior to me in every way that
FREDERICK: ( reacting, his face in his hand ) ( gesturing, moving closer to Frederick ) Oh, God, I don't even know what I ( sighing heavily, reacting ) ( rubbing Frederick's shoulder tenderly ) Tch, oh, what do you get out of me, anyway? I mean. ( laying her head against his shoulder, sighing deeply ) it's not sexual anymore. It's certainly not intellectual. I mean, you're so superior to me in every way that
LEE: ( gesturing, moving closer to Frederick ) Oh, God, I don't even know what I ( sighing heavily, reacting ) ( rubbing Frederick's shoulder tenderly ) Tch, oh, what do you get out of me, anyway? I mean. ( laying her head against his shoulder, sighing deeply ) it's not sexual anymore. It's certainly not intellectual. I mean, you're so superior to me in every way that
FREDERICK: ( sighing heavily, reacting ) ( rubbing Frederick's shoulder tenderly ) Tch, oh, what do you get out of me, anyway? I mean. ( laying her head against his shoulder, sighing deeply ) it's not sexual anymore. It's certainly not intellectual. I mean, you're so superior to me in every way that
LEE: ( rubbing Frederick's shoulder tenderly ) Tch, oh, what do you get out of me, anyway? I mean. ( laying her head against his shoulder, sighing deeply ) it's not sexual anymore. It's certainly not intellectual. I mean, you're so superior to me in every way that
FREDERICK: Please, don't patronize me! God! I should have married you years ago when you wanted to! I should have agreed.
FREDERICK: God! I should have married you years ago when you wanted to! I should have agreed.
LEE: ( sighing ) Oh, God, don't you know it never would have worked? I told you, one day you would leave ( leaning on the counter ) for a younger man. I
FREDERICK: I told you, one day you would leave for a younger man. I
HANNAH: ( reading, not looking up ) Where're you going?
ELLIOT: ( offscreen ) I've, uh.gotta find, gotta get a phone number in my desk. I forgot to phone Mel Kaufman.
HANNAH: ( still reading ) It's so late.
ELLIOT: ( offscreen ) Yeah, I know. I-I can't believe I
ELLIOT: ( muttering ) What if he answers? ( turning into the doorway leading to the living room ) I'll hang up. ( walking into the darkened living room ) I'll tell her we can't communicate until I terminate my marriage. ( whispering ) It's immoral.
ELLIOT: ( gesturing and whispering ) Then, time will pass. I won't call, and she'll get the idea. I gotta stop this before I get in too deep. I'd rather hurt Lee a little, than destroy Hannah.
ELLIOT: ( whispering, rubbing his hands ) It's one-thirty. She.she can't have a conversation with me.with him around. I'm getting hysterical. ( putting his hands on his hips ) I'll call her first thing in the morning. I'll call her at six. ( pointing ) Frederick goes jogging at six, yeah, she'll be alone. And I'll, I'll call her and nip it in the bud.
ELLIOT: ( loudly, to the offscreen Hannah, gasping ) I've got it! I've got it! I've got it! ( picking up the phone, into the telephone ) ( loudly, for the offscreen Hannah's benefit )
LEE: ( into the telephone ) I would have hung up if you hadn't answered and I promise I won't ever do this again, but I just had to tell you, I feel very close to you tonight. Very, very close. ( pausing ) Good night.
HOLLY: Oh, why are you making those faces?
MICKEY: ( leaning over to Holly, gesturing ) I can't hear you. I can't hear anything. I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm gonna lose hearing in my ear! I'm
HOLLY: ( interrupting, gesturing to the offscreen band ) Listen, you are witnessing genius!
MICKEY: ( pointing to his ears ) I, I, my ears are experiencing a meltdown! I can't hear anything.
HOLLY: ( overlapping, gesturing dramatically ) Look, can't you feel the energy? It's tangible energy! The room's alive with positive vibrations!
MICKEY: ( gesturing, trying to talk over the band ) Holly, I'm frightened! I'mAfter they sing. they're gonna take hostages! Now let's
MICKEY: ( panicking ) Don't, no, please. Will you No, ( holding the straw towards Mickey ) You want some?
HOLLY: ( holding the straw towards Mickey ) You want some?
MICKEY: ( shaking his head ) I don't. No. No.
HOLLY: ( overlapping, sniffing ) Come on, Mickey. Come on.
MICKEY: ( overlapping, gesturing ) But, no, you've been doing that all night! You're gonna.you're gonna burn a hole in your. You're gonna develop a third nostril! Really, ( putting his hand on Holly's shoulder ) don't, please.
MICKEY: Can we, can we go?
HOLLY: ( looking at the offscreen hand, bopping her head to the music and smoking ) ( touching his ear in pain )
MICKEY: ( touching his ear in pain )
HOLLY: ( enthusiastically ) I love songs about extraterrestrial life, don't you?
MICKEY: Not when they're sung by Oh, well, I cannot communicate with you! I, you know, I never realized you were such a tightass.
HOLLY: ( impatiently, with annoyance ) Oh, well, I cannot communicate with you! I, you know, I never realized you were such a tightass.
MICKEY: I can't understand you. Your sisters, both sisters have such good taste in music. I don't know where you went, went wrong.
HOLLY: ( gesturing ) Do you mind? I'm-I'm my own person.
MICKEY: Can I take you someplace to hear something nice?
HOLLY: ( touching the hat on her head ) Eh, Mickey, it's getting late.
MICKEY: Now come on, you're be, 'cause you're being angry at me.
HOLLY: ( angrily ) I'm not angry! You know, you, well, you don't believe in ESP, you don't like rock music, you won't get high. It's like I'm dating Cardinal Cooke!
BOBBY SHORT: ( singing ) "Why am I Just as reckless as a child? Why am I Like a racehorse running wild? Why am I In a state of ecstasy? The reason is 'cause something's Happened to me I'm in love again And the spring is comin'."
BOBBY SHORT: ( singing ) "I'm in love again Hear my heart strings strummin' I'm in love again And the hymn they're hummin' Is those cuddle-up huddle-up blues I'm in love again And I can't rise above it."
BOBBY SHORT: ( singing, continuing ) "I'm in love again And I love, love, love it."
HOLLY: Thanks for a swell time.
MICKEY: ( gesturing ) Well, if you didn't like it, you didn't like it, but you didn't have to talk while the guy was singing.
HOLLY: I was so bored!
MICKEY: ( gesturing ) Yeah, that's tough! You don't deserve Cole Porter. You should stay with those groups that look like they're gonna stab their mother!
HOLLY: At least I'm open to new concepts!
MICKEY: And you don't have to snort cocaine at the table all the time! What do you, what do you do? Carry a kilo around in your purse?
HOLLY: ( gesturing ) This crowd wouldn't know the difference! They're embalmed!
MICKEY: ( waving his arm and whistling for a taxi ) I'm glad Hannah got us together. You know, she's got a great instinct for people. Really.
HOLLY: Oh, look, I'm sorry it didn't work Yeah. Me, too.
MICKEY: ( overlapping ) Yeah. Me, too.
HOLLY: ( overlapping ) You know, it's probably my fault. I've been a little depressed lately.
MICKEY: ( overlapping ) Right. Yeah. I had a.
HOLLY: ( overlapping ) ( continuing ) .I had a great time tonight, really. It was like the Nuremberg
MICKEY: ( continuing ) .I had a great time tonight, really. It was like the Nuremberg
HOLLY: ( angrily ) Oh, I'll see myself home!
HANNAH: ( to her adopted children, holding the camera ) Oh, you just have to read the instructions. I mean, you just set one of these things and you can take, you can take pictures ( overlapping ) Can I try it?
CHILD 1: ( overlapping ) Can I try it?
HANNAH: ( handing him the camera ) Sure! Yeah. When we get to the country, we'll try it in the lake.
CHILD 1: ( resting her chin in her hands ) ( overlapping ) Can I go?
HANNAH: ( resting her chin in her hands ) ( overlapping ) Can I go?
CHILD 2: ( overlapping ) Can I go?
CHILD 1: ( overlapping ) ( nodding ) Yeah! Okay.
HANNAH: ( nodding ) Yeah! Okay.
HANNAH: ( after a beat ) Are you in a bad mood?
ELLIOT: ( shaking his head slightly ) I don't know. Um.I'm just antsy.
HANNAH: ( intensely ) Yes. I know. The last few weeks, you haven't been yourself. And tonight at, tonight at dinner, you, you were kind of curt with me.
ELLIOT: ( looking down at his hands ) Was I?
HANNAH: Yes, you were. A-and when I, when I brought up the idea of having a baby, you just, you jumped down my Well, I-I don't think it's a very good idea.
ELLIOT: ( shaking his head ) Well, I-I don't think it's a very good idea.
HANNAH: Why not?
ELLIOT: ( edgily ) Because it's the last thing in the world we need right now.
HANNAH: Why do you say that? Is there something wrong?
ELLIOT: I don't know.
HANNAH: Well, tell me. Should I be worried?
ELLIOT: But, you got four children!
HANNAH: I want one with you.
ELLIOT: Well.I-I think we should wait till things settle.
HANNAH: But what do, what do you what's that mean? W-w-we've been, we've been married for four years. How settled can things get?
ELLIOT: ( gesturing ) You know, y-you have some very set plans on how your life should be structured. A-a house, uh, kids, certain schools, a h, a home in Connecticut. I-it's all ( shaking her head ) Yeah, but I.uhI thought you needed that. When-when-when we met, you said your life was chaos.
HANNAH: ( shaking her head ) Yeah, but I.uhI thought you needed that. When-when-when we met, you said your life was chaos.
ELLIOT: I-I-I know, but there's got to be some give and take.
ELLIOT: Oh, let's notI, I don't know what the hell I'm talking about.
HANNAH: ( reacting ) Are you angry with me?
ELLIOT: Do you feel, um.are you disenchanted with our marriage?
HANNAH: Do you feel, um.are you disenchanted with our marriage?
ELLIOT: ( pointing at Hannah ) I didn't say that.
HANNAH: Are you in love with someone else?
ELLIOT: ( angrily ) My God! Wha-what is this? The Gestapo? No.
HANNAH: ( turning to look at him ) Well, what? What, wh-what are you not telling me?
ELLIOT: ( gesturing and pointing ) What kind of interrogation. Su- supposing I said yes? I-I-I am disenchanted. I am in love with someone else.
HANNAH: Are you?
ELLIOT: ( staring at Hannah for a beat before answering her ) ( gesturing ) But you keep asking these, these awful questions. My God, it's-it's like you want me to say yes!
HANNAH: ( gesturing ) What, you, of c What are you talking about? Of course not. I'd be destroyed!
HANNAH: ( softly ) Look, can I help you? If you're suffering over something, will you share it with me?
ELLIOT: Hannah, you know how much I love I ought to have my head examined. I don't deserve you.
HOLLY: ( offscreen ) You know, I just want to look so good, but I don't want to seem, you know, like I'm overdressed. ( onscreen, walking up the stairs behind Hannah ) You know what I'm saying?
HANNAH: ( overlapping, turning to look at Holly ) Oh, no, not at all.
HOLLY: ( holding up a dress she's carrying on her arm ) Well, how about this?
HANNAH: ( looking at the dress ) Well, I, I really like that. I think that's a pretty color on you.
HOLLY: ( overlapping ) Oh, yeah. ( laughing )
HOLLY: ( continuing, smiling ) Did you ever think you'd be helping me buy something to wear to the ( chuckling )
HANNAH: ( playfully hitting Holly's arm ) Nuh-uh.but I think it's great. I can't wait to meet him.
HOLLY: He's married.
HANNAH: ( interrupting, looking through the rack ) ( overlapping ) .and his wife's, uh, in and out of institutions. She's
HOLLY: ( overlapping ) .and his wife's, uh, in and out of institutions. She's
HOLLY: Sometimes she's terrific.
HANNAH: ( overlapping ) .and then she just breaks down. ( gesturing ) And he has this sweet daughter.and when she goes to college next year, he's going to split permanently. I ( overlapping, looking up at Holly ) .he's really paid his dues, but.then she helped put him through architecture school, you know, so.
HOLLY: .and then she just breaks down. And he has this sweet daughter.and when she goes to college next year, he's going to split permanently. I .he's really paid his dues, but.then she helped put him through architecture school, you know, so.
HANNAH: ( overlapping, looking up at Holly ) .he's really paid his dues, but.then she helped put him through architecture school, you know, so.
HOLLY: .he's really paid his dues, but.then she helped put him through architecture school, you know, so.
HANNAH: ( interrupting, glancing at her sister for a moment with amazement ) You found all this, all this out on one date?
HOLLY: ( chuckling and nodding ) Well, I think he was dying to open up. It's so sad. ( finally looking back and forth along the rack ) Now.what should I wear to my
HOLLY: ( explaining ) I've got a singing audition for a Broadway musical. ( chuckling ) Of course, I'll never get it.
HANNAH: ( chuckling ) Yeah, can you believe it?
HOLLY: ( chuckling ) Yeah, can you believe it?
HANNAH: ( walking around the rack to Holly, still surprised ) ( vulnerably ) Well, I mean, why not? You know, wh-what have I got to lose? Uh.
HOLLY: ( vulnerably ) Well, I mean, why not? You know, wh-what have I got to lose? Uh.
HANNAH: ( overlapping, shaking her head ) Well, no.I-I know, I just, uh. No, I-I, eh, you know, I, I didn't, I didn't know you sung.
HOLLY: ( defensively ) Well, you think everybody in m- musicals sings so well?
HANNAH: ( gesturing, shaking her head ) No! No, I, eh, it's just that they
HOLLY: Well.you know, uh.I sing a little, I mean.
HANNAH: ( realizing she's hurt Holly, reacting ) ( overlapping, shaking her head ) You know.
HOLLY: ( overlapping, shaking her head ) You know.
HANNAH: ( hanging the blouse back on the rack ) I know, no ( chuckling ) I know.
HOLLY: ( overlapping, still chuckling self- consciously, gesturing ) I mean, y-you know, don't say it that way, you know, because my confidence is not my strong point,
I: ( interrupting, touching her sister's shoulder ) No, I'm sorry. No, I didn't mean that. No, I didn't mean that.
HANNAH: ( interrupting, touching her sister's shoulder ) No, I'm sorry. No, I didn't mean that. No, I didn't mean that.
HOLLY: ( gesturing ) Uh, you know, I think I can fake my way through a song.
HANNAH: ( nodding as she looks around the store, pulling up her shoulder bag strap )
HOLLY: Holly pauses, looking at her sister. They continue to walk.
HOLLY: ( looking at Hannah ) W-why? You don't think it's ( putting her hand on Holly's shoulder ) No, I didn't, I, that's no. No, I- I-I, no, I-I just. ( gesturing ) hate to see you put yourself in a position where, where you get hurt, you know. You know, you know how you take.
HANNAH: ( putting her hand on Holly's shoulder ) No, I didn't, I, that's no. No, I- I-I, no, I-I just. ( gesturing ) hate to see you put yourself in a position where, where you get hurt, you know. You know, you know how you take.
HOLLY: ( overlapping, nodding )
HANNAH: ( continuing, looking at some clothes hanging beneath the table ) .every, eh, single rejection as- as-as a.a confirmation that you have no talent, or something?
HOLLY: ( overlapping, nodding ) Yeah. Well, maybe I'll get it. ( chuckling and gesturing )
HANNAH: ( overlapping, looking at the clothes ) I hope.
HOLLY: ( sighing ) Boy, you really know how to cut me ( looking at Holly, reacting ) What? You don't, don't be so sensitive. Can't I say anything?
HANNAH: ( looking at Holly, reacting ) What? You don't, don't be so sensitive. Can't I say anything?
HOLLY: ( gesturing ) Tch, well, I sing! ( suddenly shouting ) For Chrissake, Hannah, you heard me
HANNAH: ( overlapping, reacting to her sister's outburst ) ( looking at her sister ) Okay. I What happened? You know, we were having a really nice time, a-and suddenly, everything went to bad feeling.
HOLLY: ( shaking her head ) Nobody but you can do that to me. I don't know why.
HANNAH: ( gesturing ) Look, everything's going your way.
HOLLY: You're right. I'm happy. Why must I let my insecurities spoil everything?
HOLLY: ( offscreen, singing softly ) "This year's fancies Are passing fancies."
HOLLY: ( continuing her singing, barely moving her body ) "But sighing sighs Holding hands This my heart I'm old-fashioned And I don't mind it It's how I want to be As long as you agree To stay old-fashioned with me."
PRODUCER: ( offscreen ) Thank you.
DIRECTOR: ( offscreen ) Thank you.
PRODUCER: ( offscreen ) It was very nice.
ASSISTANT #1: ( offscreen, overlapping )
STAGE MANAGER: ( offscreen, overlapping the executives' chatter ) April Knox?
APRIL: ( singing ) When I'm awfully low When the world is cold I will get a glow Just thinking of you And the way you look
HOLLY: I'm telling you, you sounded great. You, uh, you may be surprised.
APRIL: ( sighing ) Oh, I'm just glad we have a catering job this week. I'm real low on Yeah, we have Mr. Morris Levine's eightieth birthday party on Riverside Drive.or Riverside Memorial Chapel, depending on his Oh, uh, listen, David called me up.
HOLLY: Yeah, we have Mr. Morris Levine's eightieth birthday party on Riverside Drive.or Riverside Memorial Chapel, depending on his Oh, uh, listen, David called me up.
APRIL: Oh, uh, listen, David called me up.
HOLLY: ( reacting ) ( gesturing ) Uh, David called me last night, and he wants to take me to the opera. ( chuckling ) I didn't know what to say.
APRIL: ( gesturing ) Uh, David called me last night, and he wants to take me to the opera. ( chuckling ) I didn't know what to say.
HOLLY: ( reacting ) You're joking.
APRIL: No, he called late last night.
HOLLY: ( sadly ) I, uh, I'm very surprised.
APRIL: ( chuckling, gesturing ) He wants to take me to see Rigoletto.
HOLLY: ( looking briefly at April ) And you, you-you're going?
APRIL: Well, I-I-I didn't know what to say. First I said no, but then, he pressed it. He said, uh, he'd taken you once and he really wanted to invite me.
HOLLY: ( pausing ) But I'm seeing him.
APRIL: ( gesturing ) I know. I said that, but. ( shrugging ) he said it was something he really felt like doing.
HOLLY: ( stopping and facing April ) Gee, um. ( looking off, sniffing ) I.I don't know what to say.
APRIL: Look, it's just an evening at the opera. Did I, I-I do wrong in
APRIL: ( continuing )
FATHER FLYNN: ( gesturing ) Now why do you think that you would like to convert to Catholicism?
MICKEY: Well, uh, because, y-you know, I gotta have something to believe in, otherwise life is just meaningless.
FATHER FLYNN: ( pacing behind his desk and gesturing ) I understand. But why did you make the decision to choose the Catholic
MICKEY: ( gesturing ) Tch. Well, y-you know.first of all, because it's a very beautiful religion. It's very well structured. Now I'm talking now, incidentally, about the-the, uh, against-school- prayer, pro-abortion, anti-nuclear ( offscreen ) So at the moment you don't believe in God.
FATHER FLYNN: ( offscreen ) So at the moment you don't believe in God.
MICKEY: ( offscreen ) No. A-a-and I-I want to. You know, I'm-I'm willing to do anything. I'll, you know, I'll dye Easter eggs if it works. ( walking over to Father Flynn and sitting down in an adjacent chair ) I-I need some evidence. I gotta have some proof. Uh, you know, i- i-if I can't believe in God ( gesturing, his raincoat in his lap ) then I don't think life is worth ( stopping his tea pouring ) It means making a very big leap.
FATHER FLYNN: ( stopping his tea pouring ) It means making a very big leap.
MICKEY: ( nodding, fiddling with his raincoat ) Yes, well, can-can you help me?
MOTHER: ( crying ) Why? Oh, my God!
MICKEY: ( overlapping and gesturing ) I don't understand. ( turning to his offscreen father ) I thought that you would be happy.
FATHER: ( offscreen ) How can we be happy?
MICKEY: ( following his father ) Well, because I never thought of God in my life. Now I'm giving it serious thought.
FATHER: ( offscreen, in the kitchen ) But Catholicism? Why not your own ( gesturing at the kitchen door to his offscreen father ) Because I got off to a wrong foot with my own thing, you know. B-b- b-but I need a dramatic change in my life.
MICKEY: ( gesturing at the kitchen door to his offscreen father ) Because I got off to a wrong foot with my own thing, you know. B-b- b-but I need a dramatic change in my life.
FATHER: ( offscreen ) You're gonna believe in Jesus Christ?
MICKEY: ( gesturing ) I know it sounds funny, but I'm gonna try.
FATHER: ( offscreen ) But why? We raised you as a Jew.
MICKEY: ( shrugging ) So, just 'cause I was born that way. You know, I'm old enough to make a mature decision.
FATHER: But why Jesus Christ? Why, for instance, shouldn't you become a
MICKEY: ( gesturing ) A Bud? That's totally alien to me. Look, you're getting on in years, right? Aren't you afraid of
FATHER: ( offscreen ) Why should I be afraid?
MICKEY: ( loudly gesturing ) Oh! 'Cause you won't exist!
FATHER: ( offscreen ) ( gesturing ) That thought doesn't terrify you?
MICKEY: ( gesturing ) That thought doesn't terrify you?
FATHER: ( waving his arm ) Who thinks about such nonsense? Now I'm alive. When I'm dead, I'll be dead.
MICKEY: ( following his father, gesturing ) I don't understand. Aren't you ( offscreen ) Of what? I'll be unconscious.
FATHER: ( offscreen ) Of what? I'll be unconscious.
MICKEY: ( turning and walking down the hallway ) Yeah, I know. But never to exist ( offscreen ) How do you know?
FATHER: ( offscreen ) How do you know?
MICKEY: Well, it certainly doesn't look
FATHER: ( offscreen ) Who knows what'll be?
FATHER: ( gesturing with his hands full ) I'll either be unconscious or I won't. If not, I'll deal with it then. I'm not gonna worry now about what's gonna be when I'm ( pounding on the door ) Mom, come out!
MICKEY: ( pounding on the door ) Mom, come out!
MOTHER: ( offscreen in the bathroom ) Of course there's a God, you idiot! You don't believe in God?
MICKEY: ( sighing ) But if there's a God, then wh-why is there so much evil in the world? ( shrugging ) What Just on a simplistic level. Why-why were there Nazis?
MOTHER: ( offscreen in the bathroom ) Tell him, Max.
FATHER: ( offscreen ) How the hell do I know why there were Nazis? I don't know how the can opener works.
LEE: ( overlapping Hannah's gasp )
HANNAH: Hi. Where's Holly?
LEE: ( overlapping ) Hi. She's auditioning for a television commercial. She said she's gonna be a little late.
HANNAH: ( sighing ) Oh, yeah? How's she doing?
LEE: ( following Hannah through the restaurant's doors ) Oh, God, you know Holly. When she's depressed, she's manic. I think it was a good idea that we invited her to lunch.
HANNAH: ( pulling off her scarf, still on the subject of Holly ) I hope you tell her it was your ( overlapping ) .'cause every time I try to be helpful, you know, sh-she gets so ( unbuttoning her coat ) Oh, Hannah, she's-she's just embarrassed in front of you, that's
LEE: ( overlapping ) .'cause every time I try to be helpful, you know, sh-she gets so ( unbuttoning her coat ) Oh, Hannah, she's-she's just embarrassed in front of you, that's
HANNAH: ( overlapping ) .'cause every time I try to be helpful, you know, sh-she gets so ( unbuttoning her coat ) Oh, Hannah, she's-she's just embarrassed in front of you, that's
LEE: ( unbuttoning her coat ) Oh, Hannah, she's-she's just embarrassed in front of you, that's
HANNAH: ( offscreen ) So how are you?
LEE: Oh, me, I'm okay.
HANNAH: ( offscreen ) Do you miss Frederick?
LEE: ( offscreen ) I can't believe Elliot and I can't think of someone nice for you to go out with, you know
HANNAH: ( offscreen ) I can't believe Elliot and I can't think of someone nice for you to go out with, you know
LEE: ( interrupting, her voice slightly higher-pitched as she takes off her coat ) How are you?
HANNAH: ( offscreen ) I'm okay.
LEE: ( overlapping ) You know, how's everything? You doing okay? How's Frederick? ( laughing ) I mean, Elliot.
HANNAH: ( offscreen, overlapping )
HANNAH: ( continuing ) Oh, he's fine. He's-he's, I guess he's fine. I don't know. ( shaking her head, her arms crossed ) He's been kinda moody lately, the last few months.
LEE: ( offscreen, overlapping ) Yeah. I-I don't know what's wrong with him. He's just.kind of distant and difficult.
HANNAH: Yeah. I-I don't know what's wrong with him. He's just.kind of distant and difficult.
LEE: ( offscreen ) ( overlapping, gesturing ) I've been trying to talk to him about it. He says everything's fine, but I don't know. Automatically, you know, I leap to the worst conclusions.
HANNAH: ( overlapping, gesturing ) I've been trying to talk to him about it. He says everything's fine, but I don't know. Automatically, you know, I leap to the worst conclusions.
LEE: ( offscreen ) Like what?
HANNAH: ( gesturing ) I mean, I don't know, he's seeing someone else or something, but.
LEE: ( walking back onscreen without her coat, reacting ) Oh, no! I mean, everyone thinks things like that. ( turning, to Holly ) Hey, hi!
HANNAH: ( turning, to Holly ) Hey, hi!
HOLLY: ( overlapping ) Well, I just came from an audition.
LEE: ( overlapping, leaning against the coatcheck wall ) ( continuing ) .which I did not get.
HOLLY: ( continuing ) .which I did not get.
HANNAH: ( reacting ) ( overlapping, sighing ) So what's new?
HOLLY: ( overlapping, sighing ) So what's new?
HANNAH: ( helping Holly with her coat ) ( interrupting ) They said I was too offbeat looking, whatever the hell that means.
HOLLY: ( interrupting ) They said I was too offbeat looking, whatever the hell that means.
HANNAH: Oh, what do they know?
HOLLY: ( to the checker ) ( turning to her sisters ) But guess who was there auditioning?
LEE: The hostess appears, peeking around the corner of the coatcheck area. She signals for the three sisters to follow
HANNAH: ( reacting to Holly's news ) Oh, gosh.
HOLLY: You got it.
HOLLY: ( gesturing ) I was very polite. I maintained my ( taking out a match for her cigarette ) I said hello.
LEE: Hmm. I never trusted April, you know. She has eyes in the back of her head.
HOLLY: Yeah, well, she and an architect are now a very definite item, which I still cannot believe.
LEE: ( overlapping ) Oh, God.
HANNAH: Oh, God.
HOLLY: ( nodding her head, holding her cigarette ) Yeah, although it's put an end to the Stanislavski Catering Company. Which is why I have to speak to you. ( gesturing to Hannah ) you're gonna get impatient, but.I have to borrow some more money. ( putting her cigarette in her mouth and picking up the matches )
HANNAH: ( shaking her head ) Well, that.th-that's fine.
HOLLY: ( gesturing, her cigarette in one hand, her matches in the other ) But what I decided to do is some writing. Yeah, I think I've had it with acting. You know, these meaningless auditions at cattle calls. And I can't handle another ( emotionally ) Now let's face it here. I gotta, you know, latch on to something in my life. You knowsomething with a future. I'm not sixteen anymore. ( lighting her cigarette ) It's just.crazy! ( puffing her cigarette ) I've got.an idea for a story. More than one. And I just need a few months, you know, or, uh, a year even.
HOLLY: I've picked up a lot about dramatic structure from doing my scenes in acting class. Well, that-that's good. It just, uh.it just seems to me that-that six months or a year, if-if you spent it more productively.
HANNAH: ( offscreen ) Well, that-that's good. It just, uh.it just seems to me that-that six months or a year, if-if you spent it more productively.
HOLLY: ( offscreen, the camera still focused on Lee ) Well-well, like what?
HANNAH: Well, I don't know. We'd uh, uh, um. Didn't Mom mention there was something.something at the Museum of Broadcasting?
HOLLY: ( offscreen ) Yeah, that's clerical.
HANNAH: No. She, didn't she say it was, um.she said it was in the publicity department. That-that can lead to other things.
HOLLY: ( offscreen ) Boy, I knew you'd be discouraging.
HANNAH: ( offscreen ) I'm not! I'm not! I'm trying to be helpful. A person doesn't just say one day, "Okay, now-now I'm finished as an actress. Now I'm a writer." I mean
HOLLY: ( offscreen, interrupting ) Yeah, you mean not at my age.
LEE: ( shaking her head, unable to take much more ) Oh, please! We all came to have lunch, didn't we?
HOLLY: ( reacting, now in view ) Yeah, okay, right. Forget it. ( puffing on her cigarette ) What's to eat?
LEE: ( trying to alleviate the tension ) ( overlapping ) I just want a salad. ( to Hannah ) You really think I'm a loser, don't ( offscreen ) What do? You're being ridiculous.
HOLLY: ( overlapping ) I just want a salad. ( to Hannah ) You really think I'm a loser, don't ( offscreen ) What do? You're being ridiculous.
HANNAH: ( offscreen ) What do? You're being ridiculous.
LEE: ( overlapping, reacting ) You are, Holly. Stop it.
HOLLY: ( to Hannah ) You treat me like a loser.
HANNAH: ( offscreen ) You never have any faith in my plans. You always undercut my
HOLLY: You never have any faith in my plans. You always undercut my
HANNAH: Not so! No. I think I've been very supportive. I've.I try to give you honest, constructive advice.
HOLLY: ( offscreen ) ( overlapping ) I'm-I'm always happy to help you financially. I think I've gone out of my way to-to introduce you to interesting single men. There's nothing I would
HANNAH: ( overlapping ) I'm-I'm always happy to help you financially. I think I've gone out of my way to-to introduce you to interesting single men. There's nothing I would
HOLLY: ( offscreen, interrupting ) Uh, losers! All losers!
HANNAH: You're too demanding.
HOLLY: ( offscreen ) You know, I could always tell what you thought of me by the type of men you fixed me up with!
HANNAH: ( offscreen ) You're crazy! That's not true.
HOLLY: ( offscreen ) Hey, Hannah, I know I'm mediocre.
LEE: ( interrupting angrily, looking as if she's about to cry ) Oh, will you stop attacking Hannah?!
HANNAH: ( offscreen, overlapping ) Oh, now ( stuttering )
LEE: ( interrupting, shaking her head ) She's going through a really rough time right now.
HOLLY: ( offscreen ) Why are you so upset?
LEE: ( sobbing and gesturing ) You know, you've been picking on her ever since she came in here. Now just leave her alone for a while! I'm just suffocating. ( sniffing back her tears )
HOLLY: ( leaning over to Lee, puzzled, reacting to her sister's tears ) What's the matter with you, Lee? Why are you so sensitive all of a ( offscreen ) ( onscreen, as the camera circles around the table ) Listen. Listen. ( tapping Holly on her shoulder and gesturing ) You want to write? Write.
HANNAH: ( offscreen ) ( onscreen, as the camera circles around the table ) Listen. Listen. ( tapping Holly on her shoulder and gesturing ) You want to write? Write.
HOLLY: ( offscreen, overlapping to Lee ) What's the matter?
HANNAH: ( flinging her hands ) Write! Let's just not talk about it anymore.
HOLLY: ( offscreen ) ( shaking her head ) Take.take a year. Take six months. Whatever you want. Who knows? Maybe you'll, maybe you'll be sitting with a good play. ( to Lee ) What's the matter? What's the matter with you? ( offscreen again as the camera circles back to Lee ) You look pale. You okay?
HANNAH: ( shaking her head ) Take.take a year. Take six months. Whatever you want. Who knows? Maybe you'll, maybe you'll be sitting with a good play. ( to Lee ) What's the matter? What's the matter with you? ( offscreen again as the camera circles back to Lee ) You look pale. You okay?
HANNAH: ( to Lee ) What's the matter? What's the matter with you? ( offscreen again as the camera circles back to Lee ) You look pale. You okay?
LEE: ( overlapping, nodding and stuttering ) I'm-I'm okay. Yeah, I-I-I, you know, I.I'm just, um, I got dizzy all of a sudden. I'm-I'm.I have a headache.
HANNAH: ( offscreen, overlapping ) ( still rubbing her forehead, looking down at the menu ) I think we need to eat.
LEE: ( still rubbing her forehead, looking down at the menu ) I think we need to eat.
ELLIOT: ( offscreen ) I-I can't seem to take action. I'm-I'm like, uh, Hamlet unable to kill his uncle.
ELLIOT: ( face offscreen ) I want Lee, but I can't harm Hannah. And in no other area am I a
ELLIOT: But it's my fault.
ELLIOT: ( face offscreen ) For all my education, accomplishments, and so-called wisdom.I can't fathom my own heart.
KRISHNA LEADER: What makes you interested in becoming a Hare Krishna?
MICKEY: ( gesturing, walking onscreen ) Well, I'm not saying that I want to join or anything, but.but I know you guys believe in reincarnation, you know, so it interests me.
KRISHNA LEADER: Yeah, well, what's your religion?
MICKEY: ( gesturing ) Well, I was born Jewish, you know, but, uh, but last winter I tried to become a Catholic and.it didn't work for me. I-I studied and I tried and I gave it everything, but, you know, Catholicism for me was die now, pay later, you know. And I just couldn't get with it. And I, and I wanted to, you know.
I: KRISHNA LEADER ( interrupting )
KRISHNA LEADER: ( interrupting ) You're afraid of dying?
MICKEY: ( gesturing ) Well.yeah, naturally. Aren't you? I L-let me ask you, reincarnation, does that mean my soul would pass to another human being, or would I come back as a moose or an aardvark or something?
KRISHNA LEADER: ( handing some Krishna literature over the fence to Mickey ) Take our literature.
MICKEY: ( nodding, taking the material ) .read it over, and think about it.
KRISHNA LEADER: .read it over, and think about it.
MICKEY: ( looking down at the material he's just received ) Well, okay. Thank you very much.
KRISHNA LEADER: You're welcome. Hare Krishna.
HOLLY: ( into the telephone ) Hannah? Hi. Listen, um, you'll be happy to know that your money has not gone completely to waste. No, I have an actual first rough draft of something I wrote. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, well, I showed it to Lee, and she gave me some good pointers. And, um, listen, I'm pretty near where you live. I wonder if I could just drop it off.and, you know, when you have time, some time, read it, an-and we'll talk when I come over at Thanksgiving. Okay? All right. Okay. Oh, wait, ( turning her body, still on the phone ) Listen. Listen. I think Lee met an interesting guy at Columbia. Yeah. Yeah, well, he sounds really ( puffing on her cigarette ) Yeah. Okay. All right. Well, we'll talk at Thanksgiving. Bye-bye.
EVAN: ( gesturing ) Now, here.here's a song that Norma sang on that trip we made up to the show in Buffalo. And, oh, was she beautiful that night!
NORMA: Come on.
EVAN: ( overlapping, to the woman ) Thank you, honey. ( putting his drink down on the piano ) Oh, yes, you were, dear. Don't you remember that night? ( gesturing and pushing back some sheet music that was starting to fall ) She was so beautiful.she was so beautiful that when men saw her walking along the streets, they'd drive their cars right up on the
EVAN: ( looking back at Norma ) Isn't that right, honey, eh?
NORMA: ( tapping his shoulder ) A slight exaggeration.
EVAN: ( overlapping Norma, laughing ) I know.
NORMA: ( gesturing ) But only slight.
ELLIOT: ( sipping his drink ) You've been very cold to me tonight.
LEE: ( glancing back at Elliot, then turning away ) Is something wrong?
ELLIOT: Is something wrong?
LEE: ( turning ) Oh, not here. ( touching Elliot's arm ) There are too many people around.
HOLLY: ( looking offscreen ) Hey, Hannah? You know, I think Lee is really serious about her new boyfriend. Yeah, eh, from what I understand he sounds really nice.
HOLLY: I'm so happy for her. I think she's in love.
HOLLY: ( reacting ) Hey, what's the matter?
HANNAH: ( taking a bunch of celery out and slamming the refrigerator door ) I'm real upset about what you wrote.
HOLLY: My script?
HANNAH: It's obviously based on Elliot and Oh, so loosely.
HOLLY: Oh, so loosely.
HANNAH: ( angrily ) No, not "Oh, so loosely"! Real specifically! Is that how you see ( shrugging, walking out of the pantry area ) ( interrupting ) Can I, can I not accept gestures and feelings from people? Do I, do I put people off?
HOLLY: ( shrugging, walking out of the pantry area ) ( interrupting ) Can I, can I not accept gestures and feelings from people? Do I, do I put people off?
HANNAH: ( interrupting ) Can I, can I not accept gestures and feelings from people? Do I, do I put people off?
HOLLY: ( reacting ) Well, it's a made-up story.
HANNAH: ( yelling ) No, it's real exact! The-the situations, the dialogue, everything. It's-it's full of intimate details between Elliot and me! Which I don't, I don't see how you could even possibly know about. A conversation we once had about ( gesturing, the towel still in her hand, as she speaks to her offscreen sister ) Well, Lee mentioned that to me, so obviously you discussed it with her. ( pacing around the table ) I just took the essence and I blew it up into drama.
HOLLY: ( gesturing, the towel still in her hand, as she speaks to her offscreen sister ) Well, Lee mentioned that to me, so obviously you discussed it with her. ( pacing around the table ) I just took the essence and I blew it up into drama.
HANNAH: I don't see how Lee could know about these things. I don't! I don't tell her everything.
HOLLY: ( reacting ) Wow, I guess I hit a nerve.
HANNAH: ( turning to look at Holly ) You make it sound like, you know, I have no needs or something. You think I'm too self-sufficient?
HOLLY: ( stopping her mindless straightening at the table, reacting ) Now, Hannah, that's not what I meant, you know. ( walking offscreen to the sink area ) Uh, yeah, everybody relies on you for so much. "You're so giving. It's not a criticism. We love you. We're grateful."
HANNAH: ( walking out of the pantry to the food- laden table ) You're grateful, but you resent me.
HOLLY: ( offscreen ) Oh, wow! I don't want to have this conversation. I didn't do anything
HOLLY: ( onscreen ) Y-you mentioned to me yourself that you and Elliot were having some ( gesturing ) Yeah, we're having some problems, but problems that are my business.which I don't see how you could know about in such detail. How does Lee know about these things? How? They're private!
HANNAH: ( gesturing ) Yeah, we're having some problems, but problems that are my business.which I don't see how you could know about in such detail. How does Lee know about these things? How? They're private!
HOLLY: ( turning to look at her sister as she walks past ) Well, why don't you share them with ( with her back to the camera ) I don't.I don't want to bother ( facing her sister's back ) That's the point. I'd like to be ( turning to look at Holly ) I don't see how you could know about these things unless Elliot's been talking to you.
HANNAH: ( with her back to the camera ) I don't.I don't want to bother ( facing her sister's back ) That's the point. I'd like to be ( turning to look at Holly ) I don't see how you could know about these things unless Elliot's been talking to you.
HOLLY: ( facing her sister's back ) That's the point. I'd like to be ( turning to look at Holly ) I don't see how you could know about these things unless Elliot's been talking to you.
HANNAH: ( turning to look at Holly ) I don't see how you could know about these things unless Elliot's been talking to you.
HOLLY: ( shaking her head ) No, he hasn't. If I offended you, I'm sorry.
LEE: ( offscreen ) It's over, Elliot. I don't know how to make it any clearer. It's over. I can't see you anymore.
ELLIOT: ( offscreen, overlapping ) ( onscreen, gesturing ) I-I-I know. I deserve this.
LEE: ( touching her chest ) Look, I'm just as much at fault.
ELLIOT: ( overlapping, gesturing ) If-if-if you can believe I have such feelings for you!
LEE: I've got to be honest with you. I met someone else. I've met someone I.I told you I wasn't going to wait forever.
ELLIOT: ( offscreen ) But it hasn't been forever. ( walking over to Lee at the just-closed door )
LEE: ( gesturing ) It's been nearly a year since our first time and you're still married to my sister, which.I now realize is fine because you're probably much more in love with her than you ( shaking his head ) Yeah, but we-we made so many plans.
ELLIOT: ( shaking his head ) Yeah, but we-we made so many plans.
LEE: ( overlapping, gesturing ) Yeah. Uh, well, sure we did. An- an-and in a way you led me on, because I truly believed you were unhappy with Hannah. Otherwise, I would never have let myself be drawn in. I was very weak. So were you. Now I've met someone else.
LEE: ( to Mavis ) Dinner soon?
MAVIS: About fifteen minutes.
LEE: ( nodding ) Uh-huh. Good.
ELLIOT: And you're in love overnight?
LEE: I care a great deal about him, yes.
ELLIOT: ( trying to put his arm around Lee ) ( pulling back, flinging her hands ) Ah, it's over! Elliot, I mean it. It's over!
LEE: ( pulling back, flinging her hands ) Ah, it's over! Elliot, I mean it. It's over!
NORMA: ( holding the door, half in and half out of the kitchen ) Sweetheart, I loved your script. I thought it was so clever.
HOLLY: ( turning to Norma, smiling, and holding a glass of wine ) Well, you're my mother. Not everybody's gonna be such a sucker.
NORMA: ( gesturing ) I particularly liked the character of the mother. Just a boozy old flirt with a filthy mouth.
NORMA: I'm so proud!
HOLLY: Oh, Mom, thanks.
UNCLE: ( raising his bottle of beer to the children ) Now here's a toast to Thanksgiving, all right?
UNCLE: Are we supposed to have beer?
UNCLE: ( overlapping the children's squeals of delight ) Let me at it! ( to one of the little boys ) How's that, Fletcher?
UNCLE: ( to the little girl ) Doll? To Thanksgiving. Here's a little toast, doll. ( clinking glasses ) Come on. Bottoms up.
HANNAH: ( to the offscreen Elliot ) Have you been talking to Holly or Lee about us? About our-our personal life?
ELLIOT: ( offscreen ) Me? Of course not.
HANNAH: There's things Holly wrote about in her script about us that are so.personal they could only have come from you.
ELLIOT: ( offscreen ) Look, I've got a splitting headache and I don't like being accused.
HANNAH: ( gesturing ) I'm not accusing. I'm asking. Do you.do you find me too.too ( closing the door of the bathroom slightly so only she is seen on the screen ) Too-too-too competent? Too-too, I don't know, disgustingly perfect or
ELLIOT: Elliot walks from behind the partially closed door to an offscreen medicine cabinet.
HANNAH: ( following Elliot and gesturing, talking to his back ) Well, what is it then? What? Eh, what's come between us? How have I alienated you?
ELLIOT: ( taking a bottle of aspirin from the cabinet and walking back to the sink, gesturing ) Hannah, my head is throbbing.
HANNAH: ( gesturing ) You never want to talk about it. I Every time I bring it up, you- you change the subject. What is it? Do you We're communicating less and less. You sleep with me less and less.
ELLIOT: ( angrily turning to Hannah and pointing as she shouts ) Hannah, I am very mixed up! Now
HANNAH: ( reacting, her voice trembling slightly, and gesturing ) Do you talk to Holly or Lee behind my back? Do you? You must. They- they seem to know so much about us.
ELLIOT: ( walking towards a towel rack and gesturing ) Well, maybe I've asked advice once or twice or-or made a joke.
HANNAH: ( gesturing ) Well, what do you do? Do-do-do you talk to Holly, or Lee, or what? Do you, do you, do you phone them?
ELLIOT: ( whirling around to face Hannah, snapping ) Leave me alone, can you?!
ELLIOT: ( continuing in a lower tone ) Jesus, I've told you. I need someone I can matter to.
HANNAH: ( reacting, near tears ) You matter to me. Completely.
ELLIOT: ( pausing, his voice rising again ) It's hard to be around someone who gives so much and-and needs so little in return! ( gesturing, pleading ) But, look.I-I have enormous needs.
HANNAH: ( gesturing, pleading ) But, look.I-I have enormous needs.
ELLIOT: ( shouting ) Well, I can't see them, and neither can Lee or Holly!
HANNAH: ( offscreen ) It's so pitch-black tonight. I feel lost.
ELLIOT: ( offscreen ) You're not lost.
ELLIOT: I love you so much.
MICKEY: ( gesturing ) Mmm, I don't know if you remember me, but we had the worst night of my life together.
HOLLY: ( laughing, holding some records ) I remember you.
MICKEY: ( overlapping ) Yes, you do recall, right?
HOLLY: ( overlapping, smiling and nodding ) I recall you.
MICKEY: ( gesturing ) I was walking past and I saw you in ( overlapping, nodding ) .and I thought I'd come in and.and we could replay, uh, the whole, uh.
HOLLY: ( overlapping, nodding ) .and I thought I'd come in and.and we could replay, uh, the whole, uh.
MICKEY: .and I thought I'd come in and.and we could replay, uh, the whole, uh.
HOLLY: ( interrupting, laughing and shaking her head ) We didn't hit it off.
MICKEY: ( overlapping, smiling ) Oh, that's putting it mildly. We did everything but exchange gunshots.
HOLLY: How are you?
MICKEY: Good. How are you?
HOLLY: I'm fine.
MICKEY: ( overlapping ) You look wonderful.
HOLLY: ( chuckling, shaking her head ) Oh, no.
MICKEY: ( overlapping, scratching his head ) Yeah, really. You do. You do.
HOLLY: It was a terrible evening.
MICKEY: It was a terrible evening.
HOLLY: Yeah, it was.
MICKEY: ( overlapping, gesturing ) Remember slamming the cab door in my face and.. ( touching his nose as Holly laughs ) you know, it came very dangerously close to emasculating my nose in ( touching his nose again )
HOLLY: ( overlapping, laughing ) I'd never do that.
MICKEY: ( continuing ) .in a really horrible way.
HOLLY: ( smiling, glancing away for a moment ) Oh, well, that was a long time ago.
MICKEY: ( overlapping ) You look wonderful. You do. What happened to you?
HOLLY: ( shrugging ) People change.you know.
MICKEY: ( touching Holly's shoulder ) Well, I hope you've changed.
HOLLY: Yeah, I hope you have, too.
MICKEY: ( overlapping ) I hope so for your sake, because, uh, your personality left something to be desired.
HOLLY: ( overlapping, shaking her head ) Yeah, and for yours. I'm sure you've changed.
MICKEY: ( continuing ) .namely a personality.
MICKEY: So how are you?
HOLLY: ( smiling ) I'm okay.
MICKEY: You didn't answer my question. What are you doing?
HOLLY: Oh, nothing much. You know.
MICKEY: ( interrupting ) ( overlapping ) .just some stuff. A little of this, a little of that, that's all.
HOLLY: ( overlapping ) .just some stuff. A little of this, a little of that, that's all.
MICKEY: ( overlapping ) Yeah? Is that an embarrassing question? Should I have not asked ( laughing ) Probably not.
HOLLY: ( laughing ) Probably not.
MICKEY: Are you, are you out of work or No, well.I've been trying to write.
HOLLY: No, well.I've been trying to write.
MICKEY: Have you?
HOLLY: ( picking up a record and looking at it ) Well, that's interesting. Wh-what kind of stuff?
MICKEY: Well, that's interesting. Wh-what kind of stuff?
HOLLY: ( touching her chin for a moment ) Oh.well, you-you're not interested in this.
MICKEY: ( overlapping ) No, you can tell me.
HOLLY: Come on.
MICKEY: No, I am. I am.
HOLLY: ( overlapping ) Oh, no, millions of people come up to you and say, "Hey, I have something I just wrote," right?
MICKEY: Nobody ever said it.
HOLLY: ( overlapping ) This is it. Yeah. This is really
MICKEY: ( overlapping ) This is it. Yeah. This is really
HOLLY: ( interrupting, turning from the record bins to look at Mickey ) Well, wo-would you be willing to-to read it? Something.that I wrote?
MICKEY: ( nodding his head ) Well, yes, I would if, uh, if it would mean anything to you. I don't know why it would.
HOLLY: ( laughing, touching her face ) No, the reason I ask is
MICKEY: ( overlapping ) You've always hated my taste in the ( pulling her jacket off her shoulders ) No, I haven't.
HOLLY: ( pulling her jacket off her shoulders ) No, I haven't.
MICKEY: You have.
HOLLY: ( gesturing, looking at Mickey ) I haven't. No, the reason why I ask is I think it might make a great, uh, television script, and, you know, you're so active in television, so
MICKEY: ( chuckling, gesturing ) I'm not anymore. I haven't, I haven't been in television for a You're kidding me.
HOLLY: You're kidding me.
MICKEY: ( overlapping ) I've done no television whatsoever.
MICKEY: ( offscreen, continuing ) I may, I may have to get back into it, 'cause my accountant says that I'm running out of dollars. But.but, um, no, I haven't, I just sort of dropped out for a ( overlapping, nodding ) Oh. Oh.
HOLLY: ( overlapping, nodding ) Oh. Oh.
MICKEY: ( offscreen, overlapping ) .which is a long, dull story and I won't get into it. But
HOLLY: ( interrupting ) You're okay, though, huh?
MICKEY: I'm Yes. Yes, I'm fine. I'm fine. How are you?
HOLLY: ( face offscreen, obscured by the sign ) Oh, I'm fine.
MICKEY: What.what about your script? So what's it about?
HOLLY: ( face offscreen ) Well, I'd love it if you'd read it, actually, 'cause I really would value your opinion.
MICKEY: ( face offscreen ) You have to remember, we-we-we didn't agree on one thing. ( smiling, gesturing ) But you have to remember while you're reading and you're cursing my name, you know, that this is my first script. Well, it's not my first script.
HOLLY: ( smiling, gesturing ) But you have to remember while you're reading and you're cursing my name, you know, that this is my first script. Well, it's not my first script.
MICKEY: ( touching her face ) Actually, my first script was about Hannah and her husband, but, uh.
HOLLY: ( touching her face ) Actually, my first script was about Hannah and her husband, but, uh.
MICKEY: .Hannah read it, she got really angry, and. you know, then I felt badly, so I
HOLLY: .Hannah read it, she got really angry, and. you know, then I felt badly, so I
MICKEY: ( overlapping ) Oh, well, God, I can imagine what you wrote.
HOLLY: Oh, no! It wasn't anything bad. But she just. you know. I don't
MICKEY: So, uh.I threw it out, but I have this other one.
HOLLY: So, uh.I threw it out, but I have this other one.
MICKEY: Well, you know, I-I-I.you know, if you want me to, I'll read it.
HOLLY: ( overlapping, gesturing ) Oh, gosh, I don't know. ( pausing ) Well, could I come over tomorrow and read it to you?
MICKEY: ( chuckling ) Come over tomorrow and read it to me?
MICKEY: You must be joking. I've been doing all my own reading since I was forty.you know.
HOLLY: ( laughing, looking at Mickey ) Hmm. I think it's lucky I ran into ( laughing ) ( laughing ) Well, what about me?
MICKEY: ( laughing ) Well, what about me?
HOLLY: ( chuckling, waving her arm ) Oh, well.
MICKEY: ( overlapping, gesturing ) I should have kept going. I-I have a sneaking feeling, a nagging sensation I should've kept walking
MICKEY: ( continuing, looking at Holly ) .and not begun this conversation.
HOLLY: ( offscreen, as the camera moves across the room towards her and Mickey, reading ) "We all go through life playing the hand we're dealt. Craig: And what hand were you dealt? ( onscreen now ) "Emily: I'm two high pair, maybe even aces up. The problem is, you've got three deuces."
HOLLY: That's the end.
HOLLY: No, you can tell me straight. It's okay. Just, you know, tell me what you think.
MICKEY: ( shaking his head, shrugging ) It's great. I swea I'm I'm, tch, I'm speechless. I was.I was not in the mood to listen to this thing now. ( sighing ) I don't know what to say. I'm moved and I laughed and I Uh, I, you know, I was on the edge of my seat. I just think it's wonderful! I'm, I'm totally.stunned. This is not an insult. I'm amazed that you can. ( sighing ) It was I just thought it was great.
HOLLY: ( reacting ) ( grunting and gesturing ) Yes! I was abso And.w- what.made you think of that climax scene where the, where the. architect is walking home with his actress girlfriend and-and the ex- wife who's schizophrenic jumps out of the bushes and stabs him to death?
MICKEY: ( grunting and gesturing ) Yes! I was abso And.w- what.made you think of that climax scene where the, where the. architect is walking home with his actress girlfriend and-and the ex- wife who's schizophrenic jumps out of the bushes and stabs him to death?
HOLLY: ( laughing and nodding ) Oh, it just came to me one day.
MICKEY: ( gesturing ) Well, it was just fabulous! I'm, I, you know.
HOLLY: ( gasping, hitting her forehead with her hand ) Oh, gosh, you really think I can ( gesturing ) I thought it was wonder There's maybe one or two things in there that I would do differently myself, ( gasping and nodding ) ( continuing ) .but who cares? It was just ( gesturing ) It was fabulous.
MICKEY: ( gesturing ) I thought it was wonder There's maybe one or two things in there that I would do differently myself, ( gasping and nodding ) ( continuing ) .but who cares? It was just ( gesturing ) It was fabulous.
HOLLY: ( gasping and nodding ) ( continuing ) .but who cares? It was just ( gesturing ) It was fabulous.
MICKEY: ( continuing ) .but who cares? It was just ( gesturing ) It was fabulous.
HOLLY: ( chuckling ) ( smiling and shaking his head ) Fabulous, I mean it! I'm so
MICKEY: ( smiling and shaking his head ) Fabulous, I mean it! I'm so
HOLLY: ( laughing ) Oh, God!
MICKEY: ( offscreen, overlapping ) I am. You-you made my day.
HOLLY: ( gasping ) Oh, wow!
MICKEY: ( offscreen ) It was just great. Uh, I was all set.I was set to be bored stiff.
HOLLY: ( grinning, looking at the offscreen Mickey ) Uh, gee. Would you like to have lunch? Uh, uh.
MICKEY: ( offscreen ) I-I would love to talk to you about, uh, that script. I-I, you know, I think maybe that we could do something with it.
HOLLY: ( nodding ) Okay, and listen, I would like to hear what made you suddenly decide to drop out of life.
MICKEY: ( offscreen ) Oh, who cares?
HOLLY: ( gesturing ) Y-you used to Oh, no! Yeah, I care. You used to be so ambitious ( pausing, grinning ) God, you really liked it?! ( gesturing ) Gosh, you really went through a crisis, you know that? H-how did you get over it? I mean, when I ran into you, you seemed, you seemed just perfectly fine. Well, you seem fine now.
HOLLY: ( gesturing ) Gosh, you really went through a crisis, you know that? H-how did you get over it? I mean, when I ran into you, you seemed, you seemed just perfectly fine. Well, you seem fine now.
MICKEY: ( chuckling ) I'll tell you. ( sighing ) One day about a month ago.
NEIGHBOR #1: ( offscreen, overlapping ) What's happening? Wh-wh-what's going on?
NEIGHBOR #2: ( offscreen, overlapping ) I don't know. I heard a gun. Is everything all right?
HOLLY: ( gesturing ) Um.look, there's something I've, uh, that's been bothering me for a long time, and I just thought I'd just tell you what it was and just sort of clear the deck here, and ( chuckling ) that's this.
MICKEY: ( mumbling ) Oh, yeah? What?
HOLLY: ( overlapping ) That I've always regretted the way I behaved that evening we went out, and, uh.I've, I just thought I'd tell you that because I really made a fool out of myself.
MICKEY: Oh, don't be silly! No! Don't be It's all right.
HOLLY: ( overlapping ) It's all right.
MICKEY: I was the, I was. You know, it was my fault. I
MICKEY: So, so you want to go out to dinner again? I mean, is that, is that. Have, you have any interest in that, or.
HOLLY: Sure. Sure, uh, yes.
MICKEY: ( overlapping ) Do you? I mean, are you, are you, are you, are you free this evening?
HOLLY: They stroll offscreen. "You Made Me Love You" grows louder and the film cuts to:
EVAN: ( holding a drink ) I want ice! Who's got some ( pointing to an ice bucket on the table ) Oh, there it is.
HANNAH: ( offscreen, overlapping ) It's on the table, Dad.
EVAN: ( putting ice into his glass ) Hey, where's Holly? She's late. ( walking briskly to the sink ) Hey, Hannah, did you read that last thing Holly wrote? It was great. She's really developed.
LEE: ( walking briskly to the sink ) Hey, Hannah, did you read that last thing Holly wrote? It was great. She's really developed.
HANNAH: ( offscreen, in another area of the kitchen ) I know, she.she really writes good dialogue.
LEE: ( turning to the offscreen Hannah ) Yeah. I'll get some ice.
NORMA: Hannah, can I tell everybody you're going to play Desdemona?
HANNAH: ( taking a big sip of her wine ) Oh, Mom, it's only television. ( beginning to mash some sweet potatoes in a bowl on the table )
NORMA: ( gesturing with the bottle ) Yes, but it's public television. And to me, Shakespeare doesn't get any greater than Othello. You with some big black stud! I love it!
HANNAH: ( gasping and laughing ) Oh, Mom!
EVAN: ( overlapping, reacting ) Oh, honey!
HOLLY: ( kissing the children ) Hi! How are you! ( kissing ) Happy Thanksgiving! ( kissing )
BOY #1: I didn't miss dinner, did I?
HOLLY: I didn't miss dinner, did I?
CHILDREN: ( overlapping, talking at once )
HOLLY: ( smiling ) Huh? Hi, Marge.
HOLLY: Happy Thanksgiving.
HOLLY: ( hugging the man )
HOLLY: ( still fixing her earrings, to Mavis ) It's beautiful.
MICKEY: ( smacking his lips ) Now don't get nervous. It's just your husband.
HOLLY: ( grinning ) ( kissing Holly ) How you doin'?
MICKEY: ( kissing Holly ) How you doin'?
HOLLY: ( nestling against Mickey ) When'd you get here?
MICKEY: When'd you get here?
HOLLY: Just a few minutes ago.
MICKEY: ( kissing her again ) You look so beautiful.
HOLLY: ( kissing Holly's neck ) You know, I was talking with your father before.and I was telling him that ( kissing ) it's ironic. I-I used to always have Thanksgiving with Hannah.and I never thought ( kissing ) that I could love anybody else. ( kissing ) And here it is, years later and I'm married to you ( kissing ) and completely in love with you. ( kissing ) The heart is a very, very resilient little muscle. ( kissing ) It really is. I. ( kissing ) It'd made a great story, I think. A guy marries one sister. ( kissing ) doesn't work out. ( kissing ) many years later. ( kissing ) he winds up ( inhaling ) married to the other sister. It's, you know, it's a.
MICKEY: ( kissing Holly's neck ) You know, I was talking with your father before.and I was telling him that ( kissing ) it's ironic. I-I used to always have Thanksgiving with Hannah.and I never thought ( kissing ) that I could love anybody else. ( kissing ) And here it is, years later and I'm married to you ( kissing ) and completely in love with you. ( kissing ) The heart is a very, very resilient little muscle. ( kissing ) It really is. I. ( kissing ) It'd made a great story, I think. A guy marries one sister. ( kissing ) doesn't work out. ( kissing ) many years later. ( kissing ) he winds up ( inhaling ) married to the other sister. It's, you know, it's a.
HOLLY: ( fondling Mickey's arm, smiling ) ( overlapping ) I don't know how you're gonna top
MICKEY: ( overlapping ) I don't know how you're gonna top
HOLLY: ( kissing Mickey's cheek ) ( kissing Holly's neck ) Mmm, what?
MICKEY: ( kissing Holly's neck ) Mmm, what?
HOLLY: I'm pregnant.
