ACT ONE: SCENE ONE SILENCE. Pitch blackness. Animal eyes begin to glow in the darkness. Sounds of the jungle climax in animals fighting. A SINGER is heard singing the first bars of "All God's Chillun Got Shoes." HAROLD, LOOSELEAF, PENELOPE, and WOODLY stand in a row in the darkness, facing the audience. They are motionless. A city skyline in the early evening materializes outside the windows. The lights come up on the living room of a rich man's apartment, which is densely furnished with trophies of hunts and wars. There is a front door, a door to the master bedroom suite, and a corridor leading to other bedrooms, the kitchen and so on.
SCENE ONE: SILENCE. Pitch blackness. Animal eyes begin to glow in the darkness. Sounds of the jungle climax in animals fighting. A SINGER is heard singing the first bars of "All God's Chillun Got Shoes." HAROLD, LOOSELEAF, PENELOPE, and WOODLY stand in a row in the darkness, facing the audience. They are motionless. A city skyline in the early evening materializes outside the windows. The lights come up on the living room of a rich man's apartment, which is densely furnished with trophies of hunts and wars. There is a front door, a door to the master bedroom suite, and a corridor leading to other bedrooms, the kitchen and so on.
PENELOPE: How do you do. My name is Penelope Ryan. This is a simple-minded play about men who enjoy killingand those who don't.
HAROLD: I am Harold Ryan, her husband. I have killed perhaps two hundred men in wars of various sortsas a professional soldier. I have killed thousands of other animals as wellfor sport.
WOODLY: I am Dr. Norbert Woodlya physician, a healer. I find it disgusting and frightening that a killer should be a respected member of society. Gentleness must replace violence everywhere, or we are doomed.
PENELOPE: ( to LOOSELEAF ) Would you like to say something about killing, Colonel?
LOOSELEAF: ( embarrassed ) JesusI dunno. You know. What the heck. Who knows?
PENELOPE: Colonel Harper, retired now, dropped an atom bomb on Nagasaki during the Second World War, killing seventy-four thousand people in a flash.
LOOSELEAF: I dunno, boy.
PENELOPE: You don't know?
LOOSELEAF: It was a bitch.
PENELOPE: Thank you. You can leave now. We'll begin.
WOODLY: ( to the audience, making a peace sign )
PENELOPE: ( to the audience ) This is a tragedy. When it's done, my face will be as white as the snows of Kilimanjaro. ( hyena laughs ) My husband, who kills so much, has been missing for eight years. He disappeared in a light plane over the Amazon Rain Forest, where he hoped to find diamonds as big as cantaloupes. His pilot was Colonel Looseleaf Harper, who dropped the bomb on Nagasaki. ( hyena laughs ) I should explain the doorbells in this apartment. They were built by Abercrombie and Fitch. They are actual recordings of animal cries. The back doorbell is a hyena, which you've just heard. The front doorbell is a lion's roar. ( to the wings ) Would you let them hear it please? ( lion roars ) Thank you.
PENELOPE: And this is my son, Paul. He was only four years old when his father He's coming back, Mom! He's the bravest, most wonderful man who ever lived.
PAUL: ( radiantly, sappily ) He's coming back, Mom! He's the bravest, most wonderful man who ever lived.
PENELOPE: ( to audience ) I told you this was a simple-minded Maybe he'll come back tonight! It's his birthday.
PAUL: Maybe he'll come back tonight! It's his birthday.
PENELOPE: I know.
PAUL: Stay home tonight!
PENELOPE: ( ruefully, for they have been over this before ) Oh, Paul
PAUL: You're married! You've already got a husband!
PENELOPE: He's a ghost!
PAUL: He's alive!
PENELOPE: Not even Mutual of Omaha thinks so If you have to go out with some guycan't he be more like Dad? Herb Shuttle and Norbert Woodly can't you do better than those two Thank you, kind sir.
PAUL: If you have to go out with some guycan't he be more like Dad? Herb Shuttle and Norbert Woodly can't you do better than those two Thank you, kind sir.
PENELOPE: ( resentfully ) Thank you, kind sir.
PAUL: A vacuum cleaner salesman and a fairy doctor.
PENELOPE: A what kind of doctor?
PAUL: A fairya queer. Everybody in the building knows he's a queer.
PENELOPE: ( knowing better ) That's an interesting piece of news.
PAUL: You're the only woman he ever took Not true.
PENELOPE: Not true.
PAUL: Still lives with his mother.
PENELOPE: You know she has no feet! You want him to abandon his mother, who has no husband, who has no money of her own, who has no feet?
PAUL: How did she lose her feet?
PENELOPE: In a railroad accident many years ago.
PAUL: I was afraid to ask.
PENELOPE: Norbert was just beginning practice. A real man would have sold her to a catfood company, I suppose. As far as that goes, J. Edgar Hoover still lives with his mother.
PAUL: I didn't know that.
PENELOPE: A lot of people don't.
PAUL: J. Edgar Hoover plays sports.
PENELOPE: I don't really know.
PAUL: To only exercise Dr. Woodly ever gets is playing the violin and making that stupid peace sign. Peace. Peace. Peace, everybody.
PENELOPE: ( cringing ) I hate that thing.
PAUL: It's beautiful.
WOODLY: ( wearing street clothes, carrying a rolled-up poster under his arm ) Peace, everybodyPaul, Penelope.
PAUL: You're taking Mom out tonight?
WOODLY: ( to PENELOPE ) You're going out?
PENELOPE: Herb Shuttle is taking me to a fight.
WOODLY: Take plenty of cigars.
PENELOPE: ( an apology, secret from PAUL ) We made the date three months ago.
WOODLY: I must take you to an emergency ward sometimeon a Saturday night. That's also fun. I came to see Selma, as a matter of fact.
PENELOPE: She quit this afternoon.
PAUL: We don't have a maid any more.
WOODLY: The animals made her sneeze and cry too much.
PENELOPE: The animals made her sneeze and cry too much.
WOODLY: I'm glad somebody finally cried. Every time I come in here and see all this unnecessary death, I want to cry. I don't cry, of course. Not manly, you know. Did she try antihistamines?
PENELOPE: They made her so sleepy she couldn't work.
WOODLY: Throw out all this junk. Burn it! This room crawls with tropical Everything stays as it is!
PAUL: Everything stays as it is!
WOODLY: A monument to a man who thought that what the world needed most was more rhinoceros meat.
PAUL: ( hotly ) My father!
WOODLY: I apologize. But you didn't know him, and neither did I. How's your Don't worry about it.
PAUL: Don't worry about it.
WOODLY: How's the fungus around your It's fine!
PAUL: ( concealing the thumb ) It's fine!
WOODLY: It's jungle rot! This room is making everybody sick! This is your family doctor speaking now. HereI brought you something else to hang on your wall, for the sake of variety.
PENELOPE: ( reading ) "War is not healthy for children and other living things." How lovely.
WOODLY: No doubt Paul thinks it stinks.
WOODLY: I hate that thing.
PAUL: ( going to the door ) Keeps fairies away! ( to PAUL touching him ) Hi kid. ( seeing WOODLY ) Would you look what the car dragged I'm glad you brought your vacuum Is that a fact?
SHUTTLE: ( to PAUL touching him ) Hi kid. ( seeing WOODLY ) Would you look what the car dragged I'm glad you brought your vacuum Is that a fact?
WOODLY: I'm glad you brought your vacuum Is that a fact?
SHUTTLE: Is that a fact?
WOODLY: That maid just quit. The place is a mess. You can start in the master bedroom.
PENELOPE: He's not anybody to tell somebody else what to do in a master bedroom.
SHUTTLE: He's not anybody to tell somebody else what to do in a master bedroom.
PENELOPE: I'll get ready, Herb. I didn't expect you this soon. Pleasewon't everybody be nice to everybody else while I'm gone? Most men shunned meeven when I nearly swooned for want of love. I might as well have been girdled in a chastity belt. My chastity belt was not made of iron and chains and chickenwire, but of Harold's lethal
PENELOPE: Most men shunned meeven when I nearly swooned for want of love. I might as well have been girdled in a chastity belt. My chastity belt was not made of iron and chains and chickenwire, but of Harold's lethal
SHUTTLE: I keep having this nightmarethat he catches us.
PENELOPE: Doing what?
SHUTTLE: He'd kill me. He'd be right to kill me, toothe kind of guy he is.
PENELOPE: Or was. We haven't done anything wrong, you know.
SHUTTLE: He'd assume we had.
PENELOPE: That's something I suppose.
SHUTTLE: All through the day I'm so confident. That's why I'm such a good salesman, you know? I have confidence, and I look like I have confidence, and that gives other people confidence. People laugh sometimes when they find out I'm a vacuum cleaner salesman. They stop laughing, though, when they find out I made forty-three thousand dollars last year. I've got six other salesmen working under me, and what they all plug into is my confidence. That's what charges them up.
PENELOPE: I'm glad.
SHUTTLE: I was captain of the wrestling team at Lehigh University.
PENELOPE: I know.
SHUTTLE: If you want to wrestle, you got Lehigh. If you want to play tennis, you go to Vanderbilt.
PENELOPE: I don't want to go to Vanderbilt.
SHUTTLE: You don't wrestle if you don't have supreme confidence, and I wrestled. But when I get with you, and I say to myself, "My Godhere I am with the wife of Harold Ryan, one of the great heroes of all time" Something happens to my confidence.
PENELOPE: Something happens to my confidence.
SHUTTLE: Something happens to my confidence.
PENELOPE: ( to the audience ) This conversation took place, incidentally, about three months before Harold was declared legally When Harold is definitely out of the picture, Penelope, when I don't have to worry about doing him wrong or you wrong or Paul wrong. I'm going to ask you to be my wife.
SHUTTLE: When Harold is definitely out of the picture, Penelope, when I don't have to worry about doing him wrong or you wrong or Paul wrong. I'm going to ask you to be my wife.
PENELOPE: I'm touched.
SHUTTLE: That's when I'll get my confidence I see.
PENELOPE: I see.
SHUTTLE: If you'll pardon the expression, that's when you'll see the fur and feathers fly. Good night.
PENELOPE: Good night.
SCENE TWO: SHUTTLE and WOODLY argue in pitch darkness, with PAUL listening, and lights come up gradually to full on the living room the same evening.
SHUTTLE: You've got to fight from time to time.
WOODLY: Not true.
SHUTTLE: Or get eaten alive.
WOODLY: That's not true eitheror needn't be, unless we make it true.
SHUTTLE: Which we do. But we can stop doing
WOODLY: Which we do. But we can stop doing
WOODLY: We simply stop doing thatdropping things on each other, eating each other alive.
SHUTTLE: ( calling ) Penelope! We're late!
PENELOPE: ( off, in master bedroom suite ) ( to PAUL ) Women are always late. You'll find ( thoughtfully ) The late Mrs. Harold Ryan.
SHUTTLE: ( to PAUL ) Women are always late. You'll find ( thoughtfully ) The late Mrs. Harold Ryan.
WOODLY: ( thoughtfully ) The late Mrs. Harold Ryan.
SHUTTLE: I'm sick of this argument. I just have one more thing to say: If you elect a President, you support him, no matter what he does. That's the only way you can have a country!
WOODLY: It's the planet that's in ghastly trouble now and all our brothers and sisters thereon.
SHUTTLE: None of my relatives are Chinese Communists. Speak for yourself.
WOODLY: Chinese maniacs and Russian maniacs and American maniacs and French maniacs and British maniacs have turned this lovely, moist, nourishing blue-green ball into a doomsday device. Let a radar set and a computer mistake a hawk or a meteor for a missile, and that's the end of mankind.
SHUTTLE: You can believe that if you want. I talk to guys like you, and I want to commit suicide. You get that weight-lifting set I sent you?
PAUL: It came yesterday. I haven't opened it yet.
WOODLY: ( musingly, attempting to find the idea acceptable, even funny, in a way ) Maybe it's supposed to end now. Maybe God wouldn't have it any other way.
SHUTTLE: ( to PAUL ) Start with the smallest weights. Every week add a pound or two.
WOODLY: Maybe God has let everybody who ever lived be rebornso he or she can see how it ends. Even Pithecanthropus erectus and Australopithecus and Sinanthropus pekensis and the Neanderthalers are back on Earthto see how it ends. They're all on Times Squaremaking change for peepshows. Or recruiting You ever hear the story about the boy who carried a calf around the barn every day?
SHUTTLE: ( to PAUL ) You ever hear the story about the boy who carried a calf around the barn every day?
WOODLY: He died of a massive rupture.
SHUTTLE: You think you're so funny. You're not even funny. Right? Right? You don't hurt yourself if you start out slow.
WOODLY: You're preparing him for a career in the slaughterhouses of Dubuque? Take care of your body, yes! But don't become a bender of horseshoes and railroad spikes. Don't become obsessed by your musculature. Any one of these poor, dead animals here was a thousand times the athlete you can ever hope to be. Their magic was in their muscles. Your magic is in your brains!
PENELOPE: ( brightly ) Gentlemen! Is this right for a fight? It's been so long.
SHUTTLE: Beautiful! I've never seen that coat.
PENELOPE: Seven jaguars' skins, I'm told. Harold shot every one. Shall we go?
WOODLY: ( sick about the slain jaguars ) Oh no! Wear a coat of cottonwear a coat of wool.
PENELOPE: Wear a coat of domestic mink. For the love of God, though, Penelope, don't lightheartedly advertise that the last of the jaguars died for you.
WOODLY: Wear a coat of domestic mink. For the love of God, though, Penelope, don't lightheartedly advertise that the last of the jaguars died for you.
SHUTTLE: She's my date tonight. What do you want her to dobring the poor old jaguars back to life with a bicycle pump? Bugger off! Ask Paul what he thinks. Your mother looks beautifulright? Doesn't your mother look nice? I don't care what she wears.
PAUL: ( smolderingly ) I don't care what she wears.
SHUTTLE: Something's made you sore.
PAUL: Don't worry about it.
SHUTTLE: You bet I'll worry about it. I said something wrong?
PAUL: ( close to angry tears ) It's my father's birthdaythat's ( facing everybody, raising his voice ) That's all. Who cares about that?
SHUTTLE: ( horrified, raising his hand to swear an oath ) I had not the slightest inkling. ( to PENELOPE, feeling betrayed ) Why didn't you say so?
PAUL: ( bitterly ) She doesn't care! She's not married any more! She's going to have fun! ( to PENELOPE ) I hope you have so much fun you can hardly stand it. ( to WOODLY ) Dr. WoodlyI hope you make up even better jokes about my father than the ones you've said so far.
SHUTTLE: ( reaching out for PAUL ) ( to SHUTTLE ) And I wish you'd quit touching me all the time. It drives me nuts!
PAUL: ( to SHUTTLE ) And I wish you'd quit touching me all the time. It drives me nuts!
SHUTTLE: ( reaching out again ) What's this?
PAUL: ( recoiling ) ( aghast ) You sure misunderstood something and we'd better get it straight.
SHUTTLE: ( aghast ) You sure misunderstood something and we'd better get it straight.
PAUL: Explain it to them. I'm bugging out of here.
PAUL: Don't touch me. Get out of the way.
SHUTTLE: Men can touch other men, and it doesn't mean a thing. Haven't you ever seen football players after they've won the Superbowl?
PENELOPE: ( to PAUL ) Where will you be?
PAUL: Anywhere but here. I'd just sit here and cry about the way my father's been forgotten.
SHUTTLE: I worship your father. That stuffed alligator your mother gave methe one he shot? It's the proudest thing in my apartment.
PAUL: ( at the door ) Everybody talks about how rotten kids act. Grownups can be pretty rotten, too.
SHUTTLE: ( heartbroken ) It's good. Let him go.
WOODLY: It's good. Let him go.
SHUTTLE: If he'd just come out for the Little League, the way I asked him, he'd find out we touch all the timeshove each other, slug each other, and just horse around. I'm going to go get him
WOODLY: Don't! Let him have all the privacy he wants. Let him grieve, let him rage. There has never been a funeral for his father.
PENELOPE: I never knew when to hold itor who to ask, or what to say.
WOODLY: Tonight's the night.
SHUTTLE: If he'd just get into scouting, and camp out some, and see how everybody roughhouses around the What a beautiful demonstration this is of the utter necessity of rites of passage.
WOODLY: What a beautiful demonstration this is of the utter necessity of rites of passage.
SHUTTLE: I feel like I've been double- If you'd just told me it was Harold's birthday
PENELOPE: What then?
SHUTTLE: We could have had some kind of birthday party for him. We could have taken Paul to the fight with us.
WOODLY: Minors aren't allowed at fights.
SHUTTLE: Then we'd stay home and eat venison or something, and look through the scrapbooks. I've got a friend who has a whole freezer full of striped bass and caribou meat. I'm going to bring that boy back.
WOODLY: ( going to PENELOPE ) This is very good for us.
PENELOPE: It is?
WOODLY: The wilder Paul is tonight, the calmer he'll be tomorrow.
PENELOPE: As long as he keeps out of the park.
WOODLY: After this explosion, I think, he'll be able to accept the fact that his mother is going to marry The only thing I ever told him about life was, "Keep out of the park after the sun goes down."
PENELOPE: The only thing I ever told him about life was, "Keep out of the park after the sun goes down."
WOODLY: We've got to dump Shuttle. He brings his vacuum cleaner on dates?
PENELOPE: That's the XKE.
WOODLY: The what?
PENELOPE: It's an experimental model. He doesn't dare leave it in his car, for fear it will fall into the hands of competition.
WOODLY: What kind of a life is that?
PENELOPE: He told me one time what the proudest moment of his life was. He made Eagle Scout when he was twenty-nine years old. Oh, Norbertpromise me that Paul has not gone into the park!
WOODLY: ( pause ) If you warned him against it as much as you say, it's almost a ( petrified ) No! Oh no! Three people murdered in there in the last six weeks! The police won't even go in there any more.
PENELOPE: ( petrified ) No! Oh no! Three people murdered in there in the last six weeks! The police won't even go in there any more.
WOODLY: I wish Paul luck.
PENELOPE: It's suicide!
WOODLY: I'd be dead by now if that were the Every night, Penelope, for the past two years, I've made it a point to walk through the park at midnight.
PENELOPE: Every night, Penelope, for the past two years, I've made it a point to walk through the park at midnight.
WOODLY: Every night, Penelope, for the past two years, I've made it a point to walk through the park at midnight.
PENELOPE: Why would you do that?
WOODLY: To show myself how brave I am. The issue's in doubt, you knowsince I'm always for peace
PENELOPE: I'm amazed.
WOODLY: Me, too. I know something not even the police knowwhat's in the park at midnight. Nothing. Or, when I'm in there, there's me in there. Fear and nobody and me.
PENELOPE: And maybe Paul. What about the murderers? They're in there!
WOODLY: They didn't murder me.
PENELOPE: Paul's only twelve years old.
WOODLY: He can make the sound of human footstepswhich is a terrifying We've got to rescue him.
PENELOPE: We've got to rescue him.
WOODLY: If he is in the park, luck is all that can save him now, and there's plenty of that.
PENELOPE: He's not your son.
WOODLY: No. But he's going to be. If he is in the park and he comes out safely on the other side, I can say to him, "You and I are the only men with balls enough to walk through the park at midnight." On that we can build.
PENELOPE: It's a jungle out there.
WOODLY: That's been said before.
PENELOPE: He'd go to a movie. I think that's what he'd do. If I were sure he was in a movie, I could stop worrying. We could have him paged.
WOODLY: I hate that thing.
PENELOPE: Did you see him?
SHUTTLE: Is he all right?
PENELOPE: Is he all right?
SHUTTLE: Far as I know.
PENELOPE: Is he coming home?
SHUTTLE: He ditched me. He started running, and I started running, then he lost me in the park.
PENELOPE: The park!
SHUTTLE: It's dark in there.
PENELOPE: And that's where he is!
SHUTTLE: I figure he ducked in one place and ducked out another.
PENELOPE: ( disgusted with him ) You figure!
SHUTTLE: Then I saw this bakery store that was still open, so I bought a birthday cake.
PENELOPE: A what?
SHUTTLE: For Harold. When Paul comes home, we can have some birthday cake.
PENELOPE: How nice.
SHUTTLE: They had this cake somebody else hadn't picked up. It says, "Happy Birthday, Somebody Else."
WOODLY: "Happy Birthday, Wanda June!"
SHUTTLE: We can take off the "Wanda June" with a butter knife.
PENELOPE: Did you talk to Paul?
SHUTTLE: Before he started to run. He said his father carried a key to this apartment around his neckand someday we'd all hear the sound of that key in the door.
PENELOPE: We've got to find him. I want you to show me exactly where you saw him last. And you stay here, Norbert, in case he comes home. That's all he saidthe thing about the key?
SHUTTLE: He said one other thing. It wasn't very nice.
PENELOPE: What was it?
SHUTTLE: He told me to take a flying fuck at the moon.
SCENE THREE: DARKNESS. Lights come up on living room. WOODLY is alone, asleep on the couch. HAROLD lets himself and LOOSELEAF in through the front doorquietly. HAROLD has a full beard and a paunch. LOOSELEAF is skinnier. He has a handlebar moustache. Both wear new sports clothes and smoke expensive cigars. HAROLD is calm. LOOSELEAF is nervous, confused. They prowl the room cautiously, checking this and that. HAROLD awakens WOODLY by playing with his feet.
WOODLY: ( startled ) ( to LOOSELEAF, very amused ) Can Iuhhelp you gentlemen?
HAROLD: ( to LOOSELEAF, very amused ) Can Iuhhelp you gentlemen?
WOODLY: Can Iuhhelp you gentlemen?
HAROLD: ( moving downstage, feeling at home ) Gentlementhat's nice.
WOODLY: ( to LOOSELEAF ) You startled me.
LOOSELEAF: Yeah. We just got here.
WOODLY: I thought you might be burglars but you're not, I hope.
LOOSELEAF: ( idiotically, incapable of deception ) I got a lot of stuff.
WOODLY: ( looking at him closely ) You do?
HAROLD: The door ws unlocked. Is it always It's always locked.
WOODLY: It's always locked.
HAROLD: But here you are inside, aren't you?
WOODLY: You'reyou're old friends of Harold Ryan?
HAROLD: We tried to be. We tried to be.
WOODLY: He's dead, you know.
HAROLD: Dead! Such a final word. Dead! Did you hear that?
LOOSELEAF: Telephone rings. WOODLY answers, keeping his eyes on the bizarre guests.
WOODLY: Hello? Ohhello, Mother.
HAROLD: ( to LOOSELEAF ) Hello, Mother.
WOODLY: .Who?. Did she say how far apart the pains were?. When was that?. Oh dear.
HAROLD: Oh dear.
WOODLY: Call her backtell her to head for the hospital. Tell the hospital to expect her. I'll leave right now.
WOODLY: LookI'm sorryI have to go.
HAROLD: We'll miss you so.
WOODLY: Lookthis isn't my apartment, and there isn't anybody else here. Mrs. Ryan won't be home for a while.
HAROLD: Oh, oh, ohI thought it was your apartment. You seemed at home here.
WOODLY: I'm a neighbor. I have the apartment across the hall. I have to go to the hospital now. An
WOODLY: I meanI can't leave you here. You'll have to go. I'll tell Mrs. Ryan you were here. You can come back later.
HAROLD: Ahhthen she's still alive.
WOODLY: She's fine. Please
HAROLD: And still Mrs. Harold Ryan?
WOODLY: Will you please go? An emergency!
HAROLD: She still has just the one child the boy?
WOODLY: Yes! Yes! The boy! One boy!
HAROLD: ( stopping ) And what, exactly, is your relationship to Mrs. Ryan?
WOODLY: Neighbor! Doctor! I live across the hall.
HAROLD: And you come into Mrs. Ryan's apartment as often as you please, looking into various health matters?
WOODLY: Yes! Please! You've got to get out right now!
HAROLD: Just her neighbor and doctor? That's all?
WOODLY: ( at the end of his patience, blurting ) And her fiancé!
HAROLD: ( delighted ) And her fiancé! How nice. I hope you'll be very happyor is that what one says to the woman?
WOODLY: I've got to run!
HAROLD: You wish the woman good luck, and you tell the man how fortunate he is. That's how it goes.
WOODLY: ( holding open the front door ) I've literally got to run!
HAROLD: I won't try to keep up with you. I'm not as fast on my feet as I once was.
HAROLD: Miss me, baby?
LOOSELEAF: I dunno, boy.
HAROLD: It's a bitch.
LOOSELEAF: It's a bitch.
HAROLD: ( quietly ) A bitch.
LOOSELEAF: Didn't recognize you.
HAROLD: We've never met.
LOOSELEAF: I wonder who'll recognize us first? They'll wet their pants.
HAROLD: I hope the men do. I would rather the women didn't.
LOOSELEAF: I'm gonna wet my pants.
HAROLD: ( looking around himself ) Home, sweet home.
LOOSELEAF: One thing, anywayat least Penelope didn't throw out all your crap. I bet Alice threw out all my crap after I'd been gone a week.
HAROLD: We'll see.
HAROLD: It appears that we're going to have to wait awhile for any more action here, Colonel. Why don't you run on home while the evening's young.
LOOSELEAF: Home. Jesus. I'm like this. Home!
HAROLD: Home is important to a man.
LOOSELEAF: You know what gets me?
HAROLD: ( absently ) How all the magazines show tits today.
LOOSELEAF: How all the magazines show tits today.
HAROLD: Used to be against the law, didn't it?
LOOSELEAF: Used to be against the law, didn't it?
HAROLD: ( fed up with LOOSELEAF ) I suppose.
LOOSELEAF: ( making no move to leave ) Must have changed that law.
HAROLD: ( thoughtfully hefting a broadsword, admiring its balance and strength ) You know what gets me?
LOOSELEAF: You know what gets me?
LOOSELEAF: You know what gets me?
HAROLD: ( to himself ) Oh, shit.
LOOSELEAF: ( finding enough encouragement in this ) How everybody says "fuck" and "shit" all the time. I used to be scared shitless I'd say "fuck" or "shit" in public, by accident. Now everybody says "fuck" and "shit," "fuck" and "shit" all the time. Something very big must have happened while we were out of the ( flatly ) Looseleafwill you get the hell home?
HAROLD: ( flatly ) Looseleafwill you get the hell home?
LOOSELEAF: At least we found the diamonds.
HAROLD: At least!
LOOSELEAF: I'd really feel stupid if we didn't bring anything back home.
HAROLD: It's enough that you've brought yourself home!
LOOSELEAF: I wish you'd tell Alice that. And that Goddamn Mrs. Wheeler.
HAROLD: ( hotly ) Tell them yourself!
LOOSELEAF: You don't know my mother-in-law, boy.
HAROLD: After eight years in the jungle with you, I know Mrs. Wheeler better than I know anybody in the I didn't tell you everything.
LOOSELEAF: I didn't tell you everything.
HAROLD: The time we were in a tree for fourteen days, you certainly tried to tell me everything about Mrs. I didn't even scratch the surface. You're lucky, boy. You come home, and nobody's here. When I go home, everybody's going to be there.
LOOSELEAF: I didn't even scratch the surface. You're lucky, boy. You come home, and nobody's here. When I go home, everybody's going to be there.
HAROLD: This room is full of ghosts.
LOOSELEAF: You're lucky, boy. My house is gonna be filled with people.
LOOSELEAF: You know what gets me?
HAROLD: Go home!
LOOSELEAF: Thank God we found the fucking The hell with the diamonds!
HAROLD: The hell with the diamonds!
LOOSELEAF: You were rich before. This is the first time I was ever rich.
HAROLD: Go home! Show them how rich you are for a change!
LOOSELEAF: Can I have the Cadillac?
HAROLD: Take the Cadillac and drive it off a cliff, for all I care.
LOOSELEAF: What'll you do for transportation?
HAROLD: I'll buy a hundred more Cadillacs. Go home!
LOOSELEAF: You know what gets me about that Go home!
HAROLD: Go home!
LOOSELEAF: When I drive it, I feel like I'm in the middle of a great big wad of bubblegum. I don't hear anything, I don't feel anything. I figure somebody else is driving. It's a Go home.
HAROLD: Go home.
LOOSELEAF: I'm liable to find anything!
HAROLD: That's the point! Walk in there and find whatever there is to findbefore Alice can cover it up.
LOOSELEAF: I know, I know. I dunno. At least she's in the same house. Sure was spooky, looking in the window there, and there she was.
HAROLD: So long, Colonel.
LOOSELEAF: You know what gets me?
HAROLD: ( taking hold of LOOSELEAF and steering him to the front door ) Let's talk about it some other time.
LOOSELEAF: How short the skirts are.
HAROLD: ( opening the door ) Good night, Colonel. It's been Something very important about sex must have happened while we were gone. ( going to the door )
LOOSELEAF: Something very important about sex must have happened while we were gone.
HAROLD: ( going to the door )
LOOSELEAF: You know what gets me? Those guys who went to the moon! To the moon, Leave me alone! After eight years of horrendously close association, the time has come to part! I crave solitude and time for reflection and then a reunion in privacy with my own flesh and blood. You and I may not meet again for months!
HAROLD: Leave me alone! After eight years of horrendously close association, the time has come to part! I crave solitude and time for reflection and then a reunion in privacy with my own flesh and blood. You and I may not meet again for months!
LOOSELEAF: I'm certainly not going to come horning back into your life tomorrow, and I will not welcome your horning back into mine. A chapter has ended. We are old comradesat a parting of the ways.
HAROLD: I'm certainly not going to come horning back into your life tomorrow, and I will not welcome your horning back into mine. A chapter has ended. We are old comradesat a parting of the ways.
LOOSELEAF: ( bleakly, shrugging ) I'm lonesome already.
HAROLD: ( roaming the room again ) The moon. The new heroismput a village idiot into a pressure cooker, seal it up tight, and shoot him at the moon. ( to his portrait ) Hello there, young man. In case you're wondering, I could beat the shit out of you. And any woman choosing between ussorry, kid, she'd choose me. ( pleased with the room ) I must say, this room is very much as I left it. ( sees the cake ) What's this? A cake? "Happy Birthday, Wanda June"? Who the hell is Wanda June?
SCENE FOUR: MUSIC indicates happiness, innocence, and weightlessness. Spotlight comes up on WANDA JUNE, a lisping eight-year-old in a starched party dress. She is as cute as Shirley Temple.
WANDA JUNE: Hello. I am Wanda June. Today was going to be my birthday, but I was hit by an ice-cream truck before I could have my party. I am dead now. I am in Heaven. That is why my parents did not pick up the cake at the bakery. I am not mad at the ice-cream truck driver, even though he was drunk when he hit me. It didn't hurt much. It wasn't even as bad as the sting of a bumblebee. I am really happy here! It's so much fun. I am glad the driver was drunk. If he hadn't been, I might not have got to Heaven for years and years and years. I would have had to go to high school first, and then beauty college. I would have had to get married and have babies and everything. Now I can just play and play and play. Any time I want any pink cotton candy I can have some. Everybody up here is happy the animals and the dead soldiers and people who went to the electric chair and everything. They're all glad for whatever sent them here. Nobody is mad. We're all too busy playing shuffleboard. So if you think of killing somebody, don't worry about it. Just go ahead and do it. Whoever you do it to should kiss you for doing it. The soldiers up here just love the shrapnel and the tanks and the bayonets and the dum dums that let them play shuffleboard all the timeand drink beer.
WANDA JUNE: We have merry-go-rounds that don't cost anything to ride on. We have Ferris wheels. We have Little League and girls' basketball. There's a drum and bugle corps anybody can join. For people who like golf, there is a par-three golf course and a driving range, with never any waiting. If you just want to sit and loaf, why that's all right, too. Gourmet specialties are cooked to your order and served at any time of night or day.
LOOSELEAF: When Penelope asked me to say something about dropping the bomb on Nagasaki, I didn't give a very good answer, I guess. It's a very complicated question. Jesusyou know? You have to explain what it's like to be in the Air Force and how they give you your orders and all that. What it feels like to be in a plane, what the world looks like down there. After I got home from the war, the minister of my church asked me if I would speak to a scout troop that met in the church basement. So I did. They met on Thursday nights. I used to belong to that troop. I never made Eagle Scout. But you know something? It's a very strange kind of kid that makes Eagle Scout. They always seem so lonesome, like they'd worked real hard to get a job nobody else cares about. They get a whole bunch of merit badges. That's how you get to be an Eagle Scout. I don't think I had over five or six merit badges. The only one I remember is Public Health. That was a bitch. The Boy Scout Manual said I was supposed to find out what my town did about sewage. Jesus, they just dumped it all in Sugar Creek. Sugar Creek! That was a long time ago, but it's all coming back to me now. There was another merit badge you could get for roller skating. There used to be a roller rink at a bend in Sugar Creek, up above where the sewage went in. I got in a fight there one time. I had on roller skates, and the guy I was fighting had on basketball shoes. He had a tremendous advantage over me. He was a little guy, but he beat the shit out of me. I had to laugh like hell. Don't ever fight a guy when you've got on roller JesusI remember my mother used to make me chew bananas for a full minute before I swallowedso I wouldn't get sick. Makes you wonder what else your parents told you that wasn't true.
SCENE FIVE: SPOTLIGHT comes up on HAROLD. He sits on the front seat of an imaginary car. The seat is covered with zebra skin.
HAROLD: The night I met Penelope, I had no beardso imagine me, if you can, without a beard. Actually, I wasn't as good-looking then as I am now. And, if anything, me health has improved. At any rateI had just come home from Kenyato discover that my third wife, Mildred, like the two before her, had become a drunken bum. In my experience, alcoholism is far more prevalent among women than men. So I got into my automobile
HAROLD: I drive through the night, until I was attracted by a sign which said
HAROLD: "Hamburger Heaven."
PENELOPE: HAROLD pantomimes swerving into Hamburger Heaven. Tires squeal. He pantomimes a stop, kills the engine. He blows his imaginary horn. A real horn blows the bugle call for "charge." PENELOPE crosses to HAROLD.
PENELOPE: Can I help you, sir?
HAROLD: I think so, daughter. How old are and a half.
PENELOPE: ( pause ) and a half.
HAROLD: A springbok, an oryx, a gemsboka Raw hamburger, pleaseand a whole onion. I want to eat the onion like an apple. Do you understand?
PENELOPE: Raw hamburger, pleaseand a whole onion. I want to eat the onion like an apple. Do you understand?
HAROLD: Raw hamburger, pleaseand a whole onion. I want to eat the onion like an apple. Do you understand?
PENELOPE: Yes, sir. It was a very unusual automobile. It was a Cadillac, but it had water buffalo horns where the bumpers should be. And what to drink?
HAROLD: What time do you get off work, my I'm sorry, sir, I'm engaged to be married. My boyfriend would be mad if I went out with another man.
PENELOPE: I'm sorry, sir, I'm engaged to be married. My boyfriend would be mad if I went out with another man.
HAROLD: Did you ever daydream that you would one day meet a friendly I'm engaged.
PENELOPE: I'm engaged.
HAROLD: DaughterI love you very much.
PENELOPE: You don't even know me.
HAROLD: You are woman. I know woman well.
PENELOPE: This is crazy.
HAROLD: Destiny often seems that way. You're going to marry me.
PENELOPE: What do you do for a living?
HAROLD: My parents died in an automobile accident when I was sixteen years old. They left me a brewery and a baseball teamand other things. I live for a living. I've just come back from Kenyain Africa. I've been hunting Mau Mau there.
PENELOPE: Some kind of animal?
HAROLD: The pelt is black. It's a kind of
SCENE SIX: CURTAIN rises on empty living room. PAUL lets himself in with a key.
PAUL: ( silence ) ( silence ) Dr. Woodly? ( advances into room uneasily ) ( sees the cake ) A cake? Who's Wanda June?
PAUL: Anybody home?
HAROLD: As a matter of fact
PAUL: ( nearly jumping out of his skin ) As a matter of factI am home.
HAROLD: As a matter of factI am home.
PAUL: ( thinking HAROLD may be a burglar ) ( simply ) Are you
HAROLD: ( simply ) Are you
PAUL: Are you
HAROLD: ( hoping to be recognized ) You were about to ask a question?
PAUL: Are youdo you
HAROLD: Ask it!
PAUL: ( blurting ) Do you know who Wanda June is?
HAROLD: Life has denied me that thrill.
PAUL: Do you mind if I ask who you are?
HAROLD: ( aside ) God, yes, I mind. ( to PAUL ) I'm your father's friend. A man claiming to be the family physician let me in a while ago.
PAUL: Dr. Woodly.
HAROLD: Dr. Woodly. I should make a little Is anybody besides you here now?
PAUL: Is anybody besides you here now?
HAROLD: The doctor was called away on an emergency. I think it was birth.
PAUL: Where's Mom?
HAROLD: You don't know where your mother is? Does she put on a short skirt and go drinking all night?
PAUL: She went to the fight with Herb Shuttle, I guess.
HAROLD: You think you could find me a pencil and paper?
PAUL: I'll see.
HAROLD: And you've been roaming the streets while your mother is God-knows-where?
PAUL: I was going to a funny movie, but I changed my mind. If you're depressed, laughing doesn't help When did you know my father?
HAROLD: Man and boy.
PAUL: Everybody says he was so brave.
HAROLD: Even this"Herb Shuttle", you said?
PAUL: He worships Father.
HAROLD: ( pleased ) Ah! And what sort of man is this He's a vacuum cleaner salesman.
PAUL: He's a vacuum cleaner salesman.
HAROLD: ( deflated ) I see. ( recovering ) And he came into the apartment one day, to demonstrate his wares, and your mother, as it happened, was charmingly en deshabille
PAUL: She met him at college.
HAROLD: ( startled ) They were in the same creative writing class.
PAUL: They were in the same creative writing class.
HAROLD: She has a master's degree in English literature.
PAUL: She has a master's degree in English literature.
HAROLD: What a pity! Educating a beautiful woman is like pouring honey into a fine Swiss watch. Everything stops. And the doctor? He worships your father, too?
PAUL: He insults him all the time.
HAROLD: ( delighted ) What's good about that?
PAUL: What's good about that?
HAROLD: It makes life spicy.
PAUL: He doesn't do it in front of me, but he does it with Mother. You know what he called Father one "Harold, the Patron Saint of What does he doof an athletic Nothing. He plays a violin in a doctors' quartet.
HAROLD: "Harold, the Patron Saint of What does he doof an athletic Nothing. He plays a violin in a doctors' quartet.
PAUL: "Harold, the Patron Saint of What does he doof an athletic Nothing. He plays a violin in a doctors' quartet.
HAROLD: ( measuring his opponent ) What does he doof an athletic Nothing. He plays a violin in a doctors' quartet.
PAUL: Nothing. He plays a violin in a doctors' quartet.
HAROLD: Aha! He has a brilliant military record, I'm sure.
PAUL: He was a stretcher-bearer in the Korean War. Were you in a war with Father?
HAROLD: Big ones, little ones, teeny-weeny onesjust and otherwise.
PAUL: Tell me some true stories about Dad.
HAROLD: ( unused to the word ) ( accepting it ) ( to himself ) The boy wants tales of derring-do. Name a country.
PAUL: ( disgusted ) Oh hell.
HAROLD: ( disgusted ) Oh hell.
PAUL: Dad was never in England?
HAROLD: Behind a desk for a little while. A desk! They had him planning air raids. A city can't flee like a coward or fight like a man, and the choice between fleeing and fighting was at the core of the life of Harold Ryan. There was only one thing he enjoyed more than watching someone make that choice, and that was making the choice himself. Ask about Spain, where he was the youngest soldier in the Abraham Lincoln Brigade. He was a famous sniper. They called him "La Picadura""the sting."
PAUL: ( echoing wonderingly ) "The sting."
HAROLD: As in "Death, where is thy sting?" He killed at least fifty men, wounded hundreds more.
PAUL: ( slightly dismayed at such murderousness ) "The sting."
HAROLD: Ask about the time he and I were parachuted into Yugoslavia to join a guerrilla bandin the war against the Nazis.
PAUL: Tell me that.
HAROLD: I saw your father fight Major Siegfried von Konigswald, the Beast of Yugoslavia, hand to hand.
PAUL: ( his excitement rising ) Tell me that! Tell me that!
HAROLD: Hid by dayfought by night. At sunset one day, your father and I, peering through field glasses, saw a black Mercedes draw up to a village inn. It was escorted by two motorcyclists and an armored car. Out of the Mercedes stepped one of the most hateful men in all of historythe Beast of Yugoslavia.
PAUL: We blacked our hands and faces. At midnight we crept out of the forest and into the village. The name of the village was Mhravitch. Remember that name!
HAROLD: We blacked our hands and faces. At midnight we crept out of the forest and into the village. The name of the village was Mhravitch. Remember that name!
PAUL: We came up behind a sentry, and your father slit his throat before he could utter a sound.
HAROLD: We came up behind a sentry, and your father slit his throat before he could utter a sound.
PAUL: ( involuntarily ) Don't care for cold steel? A knife is worse than a bullet?
HAROLD: Don't care for cold steel? A knife is worse than a bullet?
PAUL: I don't know.
HAROLD: The story gets hairier. Should I Go on.
PAUL: Go on.
HAROLD: We caught another Kraut alone in a back lane. Your father choked him to death with a length of piano wire. Your father was quite a virtuoso with piano wire. That's nicer than a knife, isn't itas long as you don't look at the face afterwards. The face turns a curious shade of avocado. I must ask the doctor why that is. At any rate, we stole into the back of the inn, and, with the permission of the management, we poisoned the wine of six Krauts who were carousing there.
PAUL: Where did you get the poison?
HAROLD: We carried cyanide capsules. We were supposed to swallow them in case we were captured. It was your father's opinion that the Krauts needed them more than we did at the And one of them was the Beast of The Beast was upstairs, and he came running downstairs, for his men were making loud farewells and last wills and testamentseditorializing about the hospitality they had received. And your father said to him in perfect German, which he had learned in the Spanish Civil War, "Major, something tragic seems to have happened to your bodyguard. I am Harold Ryan, of the United States of America. You, I believe, are the Beast of Yugoslavia."
PAUL: And one of them was the Beast of The Beast was upstairs, and he came running downstairs, for his men were making loud farewells and last wills and testamentseditorializing about the hospitality they had received. And your father said to him in perfect German, which he had learned in the Spanish Civil War, "Major, something tragic seems to have happened to your bodyguard. I am Harold Ryan, of the United States of America. You, I believe, are the Beast of Yugoslavia."
HAROLD: The Beast was upstairs, and he came running downstairs, for his men were making loud farewells and last wills and testamentseditorializing about the hospitality they had received. And your father said to him in perfect German, which he had learned in the Spanish Civil War, "Major, something tragic seems to have happened to your bodyguard. I am Harold Ryan, of the United States of America. You, I believe, are the Beast of Yugoslavia."
SCENE SEVEN: SILENCE. Pitch blackness. The sounds of a Nazi rally come up slowly: "Sieg Heil! Sieg Heil! Sieg Heil!" Spotlight comes up on MAJOR SIEGFRIED VON KONIGSWALD, and officer in the dreaded SS. He is in full ceremonial uniform. The sounds fade.
VON KONIGSWALD: ( sadly, resignedly, remembering ) Ja ja. Ja ja. ( pause ) I am Major Siegfried von Konigswald. They used to call me "The Beast of Yugoslavia," on account of all the people I had tortured and shotand hanged. We'd bop 'em on the head. We'd hook 'em up to the electricity. We'd stick 'em with hypodermic syringes full of all kinds of stuff. One time we killed a guy with orange juice. There was a train wreck, and two of the freight cars were loaded with oranges, so we had oceans of orange juice. It was a jokehow much orange juice we had. And we were interrogating a guy one day, and he wouldn't talk, and the next thing I knowsomebody's filling up this big syringe with orange juice. ( pause ) There was a guerrilla war going on. You couldn't tell who was a guerrilla and who wasn't. Even if you got one, it was still a civilian you got. Telling Americans what a guerrilla war is likethat's coals to Newcastle. How do you like that for idiomatic English? "Coals to Newcastle." ( laughs ) That Harold Ryanhe says he spoke to me in perfect German? He talks German like my ass chews gum. I'm glad to hear the wonderful thing he said before he killed me. I sure didn't understand it the first time around. I figured he was a Lithuanian or something, which will give you an idea of how wrong you can be. All I knew was he was very proud about something, and he had a machine pistol, and it was aimed at me. The woods were full of all kinds of nuts who were proud of some damn thing or other, and they all had guns. They were always looking for revenge. You find a way to bottle revengethat's the end of Schnapps und Coca-Cola. ( pause ) Harold Ryan said he killed maybe two hundred guys. I killed a hundred times that many, I bet. That's still peanuts, of course, compared to what that crazy Looseleaf did. Harold and mewe was doing it the hard way. I hope the record books will show that. There should be a little star or something by the names of the guys who did it the hard way. ( pause ) I'm up in Heaven now, like that little Wanda June kid. I wasn't hit by no ice-cream truck. Harold Ryan killed me with his bare hands. He was good. My eyes popped out. My tongue stuck out like a red banana. I shit in my pants. It was a mess. ( pause ) When I got up on the day I died, I said, "What a beautiful day this is. What a beautiful part of the world." The whole planet was beautiful. Up here I meet guys from other planets. ( laughs ) We got some really crazy-looking guys up here. Their planets weren't anywhere near as nice as Earth. They had clouds all the time. They never saw a clear blue sky. They never saw snow. They never saw an ocean. They had some little lakes, but you couldn't go swimming in them. The lakes were acid. You go swimming, you dissolve. We got some guys up here who got shoved in them lakes. They ( pause ) Harold Ryan stopped talking German to me there in Yugoslavia. He switched to English, so I finally got some kind of idea what he was so burned up about. He wanted revenge for the guy we killed with orange juice. I don't know how he ever found out about it. There was just three of us there when we did itme and two regular military doctors. Somebody who cleaned up afterwards must have squealed. If I'd lived through the war, and they tried me for war crimes and all that, I'd have to tell the court, I guess, "I was only following orders, as a good soldier should. Hitler told me to kill this guy with orange juice."
SCENE EIGHT: DARKNESS. Lights come up on living room. HAROLD has just finished telling his true war story to PAUL.
HAROLD: Mhravitch. Remember that name.
PAUL: The name will live forever. It was there that Harold Ryan slew the Beast of Yugoslavia. Mhravitch.
HAROLD: The name will live forever. It was there that Harold Ryan slew the Beast of Yugoslavia. Mhravitch.
PAUL: When I grow up, I'm going to go to It's rather a disappointment these days. It isn't there any more.
HAROLD: It's rather a disappointment these days. It isn't there any more.
PAUL: The Germans shot everybody who lived there, then leveled it, plowed it, planted turnips and cabbages in the fertile ground. They wished revenge for the slaying of the Beast of Yugoslavia. To their twisted way of thinking, your father had butchered an Eagle Scout. Play lots of contact sports?
HAROLD: The Germans shot everybody who lived there, then leveled it, plowed it, planted turnips and cabbages in the fertile ground. They wished revenge for the slaying of the Beast of Yugoslavia. To their twisted way of thinking, your father had butchered an Eagle Scout. Play lots of contact sports?
PAUL: I wanted to go out for football, but Mom was afraid I'd get hurt.
HAROLD: You're supposed to get hurt!
PAUL: Dr. Woodly says he's seen hundreds of children permanently injured by football. He says that when there's a war, everybody goes but football players.
HAROLD: Does it bother you to have your mother engaged to a man like that?
PAUL: They're not engaged.
HAROLD: He seems to think they are. He told me that were.
PAUL: Oh no, no, no, no, no. It can't be. How embarrassing.
HAROLD: ( unexpectedly moved ) You're a very good boy to respond that way.
PAUL: No, no, no, no, no.
HAROLD: I'd like to use the sanitary facilities, if I may.
PAUL: Go ahead. No, no, no, no.
PAUL: Thank God!
SHUTTLE: What a relief!
PENELOPE: ( going to PAUL ) My baby's safe!
PENELOPE: What's the matter now?
SHUTTLE: We got a birthday cake, kid. Did you see the cake?
PAUL: Are you and Dr. Woodly engaged?
PENELOPE: ( stunned ) Who have you been talking to?
PAUL: What difference does that make? Is Dr. Woodly going to be my father now? Yes, he is.
PENELOPE: Yes, he is.
PAUL: ( a stifled, gargling cry ) ( sick ) That goes double for me.
SHUTTLE: ( sick ) That goes double for me.
PAUL: I don't want to live any more.
SHUTTLE: I feel like I want to yell my head offjust yell anything. I'll kill myself.
PAUL: I'll kill myself.
SHUTTLE: The wife of Harold Ryan is going to marry a pansy next? This is the end of Western Civilization as far as I'm concerned. You must be crazy as a fruitcake.
PENELOPE: How long has this been going on?
SHUTTLE: How long has this been going on?
PENELOPE: A week. We were waiting for the right time to
SHUTTLE: I feel as though I had been made a perfect chump of.
PENELOPE: I'm sorry.
SHUTTLE: Marry me instead.
PENELOPE: Thank you, Herb. You're a wonderful man. You really are. Everybody respects you for what you've done for scouting and the Little League.
SHUTTLE: You're saying no.
PENELOPE: I'm saying noand thank you.
SHUTTLE: I didn't make my move fast enough. That's it, isn't it? I was too You were wonderful.
PENELOPE: You were wonderful.
SHUTTLE: What's so wonderful if I lost the You poor kid.
PAUL: Don't touch me.
SHUTTLE: Wouldn't you rather have your mother marry me than him?
PAUL: ( moving dazedly toward the front door ) All my dreams have suddenly ( pause ) We did have a lot of laughs together, Penelope.
SHUTTLE: ( moving dazedly toward the front door ) All my dreams have suddenly ( pause ) We did have a lot of laughs together, Penelope.
PENELOPE: It's true.
SHUTTLE: Wellit was nice while it lasted. Thanks for the memories.
PENELOPE: Is Norbert still here?
PAUL: Then who flushed the toilet?
PENELOPE: Then who flushed the toilet?
PAUL: Father's friend.
PENELOPE: What's his name?
PAUL: Don't know.
PENELOPE: For Heaven's sakes!
PENELOPE: How do you do?
HAROLD: How do you do, Mrs. Ryan? I'd heard you were beautiful, and so you are. Am I intruding here?
PENELOPE: Not at all.
HAROLD: I couldn't help overhearing that you were about to get married again.
PENELOPE: Our family physician has asked me to marry him. Paul needs the guidance and companionship that only a man can give. He isn't at all like Harold. But then again, I'm not the woman I was eight years
PAUL: ( pointing weakly ) That man is your father.
PENELOPE: ( pointing weakly ) That man is your father.
PAUL: There stands the loins from which you've sprung.
PENELOPE: There stands the loins from which you've sprung.
PAUL: I don't get it.
PENELOPE: It is you, isn't it, Harold?
HAROLD: ( enjoying the drama hugely ) Yes, wife, it is. ( to PAUL ) Come here, boy. Your father is home.
PAUL: Go to him.
PENELOPE: Go to him.
HAROLD: Wife, wife, wife.
HAROLD: Wife, wife, wife.
HAROLD: What's the matter?
PENELOPE: ( tearful ) Give us time.
HAROLD: Like hugging a lamp post.
PENELOPE: Give us time, Haroldto adjust to your being alive.
HAROLD: You were well adjusted to my being We adjust to what there is to adjust to. Perhaps Paul, being young, can adjust to joy or grief immediately. I hope he can. I will take a little longer. I'll be as quick as I can.
PENELOPE: We adjust to what there is to adjust to. Perhaps Paul, being young, can adjust to joy or grief immediately. I hope he can. I will take a little longer. I'll be as quick as I can.
HAROLD: What sort of time period do you have in mind? Half an hour? An hour?
PENELOPE: I don't know. This is a new disease to me.
HAROLD: This reunion isn't what I imagined it would be.
PENELOPE: This reunion isn't what I imagined it would be.
HAROLD: This reunion isn't what I imagined it would be.
PENELOPE: A telegrama phone call might have Seemed the most honest way to begin life together againnatural, Wellenjoy the natural, honest, unrehearsed resultsurgical shock.
HAROLD: Seemed the most honest way to begin life together againnatural, Wellenjoy the natural, honest, unrehearsed resultsurgical shock.
PENELOPE: Wellenjoy the natural, honest, unrehearsed resultsurgical shock.
HAROLD: You feel that you're behaving as a woman should?
PENELOPE: Every fuse in my nervous system has been blown.
PENELOPE: Who's that? Teddy Roosevelt?
WOODLY: ( to PAUL ) Safe and sound, I see. ( to HAROLD ) Ohyou came back.
HAROLD: I came back.
PENELOPE: You know each other?
WOODLY: We met here earlier this evening.
PENELOPE: How neat. How keen.
HAROLD: How was the emergency, Doctor? Profitable, I hope.
WOODLY: A policeman delivered the baby in a Tough luck. You'll have to split the fee.
HAROLD: Tough luck. You'll have to split the fee.
WOODLY: ( puzzled by PENELOPE's mood ) Areare you crying, Penelope?
HAROLD: She's crying because she's so happy.
PENELOPE: That's why I'm crying.
PAUL: Dr. Woodly? You know who this is?
WOODLY: I didn't get his name. A friend of your father?
PAUL: He isn't any friend of Father.
WOODLY: He isn't?
PAUL: He is my father.
WOODLY: Eeeeeeeeeeee-yup. Dr. WoodlyI would like you to meet Harold, my husband. Harold, this is Dr. Woodly, my fiancé.
PENELOPE: Eeeeeeeeeeee-yup. Dr. WoodlyI would like you to meet Harold, my husband. Harold, this is Dr. Woodly, my fiancé.
PENELOPE: Good night, dear. Good night, dear.
PENELOPE: Stay or go, talk or sulk, laugh or cryas you wish. Do whatever seems called for. My mind is gone. Good night. I feel the same way. What next?
WOODLY: ( dazedly ) I feel the same way. What next?
HAROLD: What next? You leave promptly, of course. There is no question as to whose home this is
WOODLY: Whose son this is, whose wife that is. A fiancé is the most ridiculous appurtenance this household could have at this time. Good night.
HAROLD: Whose son this is, whose wife that is. A fiancé is the most ridiculous appurtenance this household could have at this time. Good night.
WOODLY: ( crushed, without any possible comeback ) Good night.
HAROLD: Penelope! God damn it! Penelope!
HAROLD: Wants to fix up her makeup, no doubt.
PAUL: Is Looseleaf Harper alive?
HAROLD: Alive and hale. He's throwing a little surprise party for his own family. Is your mother often this She's a real heavy sleeper sometimes.
PAUL: She's a real heavy sleeper sometimes.
HAROLD: Why don't you go to bedson.
PAUL: I can't take my eyes off you.
HAROLD: Tomorrow's another day.
PAUL: You know what my English literature teacher said about you?
HAROLD: Can't it keep till morning?
PAUL: She said you were legendary. I wrote a theme about you, and she said, "Your father is a legendary hero out of the Golden Age of That's nice. You thank her for me. Go to bed and get lots of sleep, and then you thank her in the morning.
HAROLD: That's nice. You thank her for me. Go to bed and get lots of sleep, and then you thank her in the morning.
PAUL: Tomorrow's Saturday. Anyway, she's She was killed in the park two months agoin the daytime.
HAROLD: She was killed in the park two months agoin the daytime.
PAUL: She was killed in the park two months agoin the daytime.
HAROLD: She was on her way home from a meeting of the African Violet Society, and they got her.
PAUL: She was on her way home from a meeting of the African Violet Society, and they got her.
HAROLD: ( sharply ) Will you go to bed?
PAUL: ( stung ) Yes sir. If you can't wake Mom up, I've got double-decker bunks.
HAROLD: ( stamping his foot )
HAROLD: Penelopedarlingcan you hear me? Wifeyou know what kept me alive all these fevered, swampy, nightmare years? Your heavenly face, Penelope, my wifeshimmering before me, coaxing me up from my knees, begging me to stagger one step closer to home. Has love ever reached so far? Has love ever overcome more hardships than mine? Has love ever asked more manliness of a man, more womanliness of a woman? Has ever a man done more for a woman's reward?
PENELOPE: ( hollowly, to the world at large ) There is no one in here of any earthly use to anyone tonight. Tomorrow is another day.
HAROLD: ( to audience ) End of Act One.
ACT TWO: SCENE ONE DARKNESS. PAUL, alone in the living room, hammers on his mother's door. He wears pajamas.
SCENE ONE: DARKNESS. PAUL, alone in the living room, hammers on his mother's door. He wears pajamas.
PAUL: Mom! Mother! Mom! Dad's got jungle fever, Mom. What'll I do? Mom!
PAUL: Dad's got jungle fever, Mom. What'll I do? Mom!
HAROLD: ( a moment of exhaustion )
PAUL: Door to the master bedroom suite opens. PENELOPE appears in the doorway. She has decided during an almost sleepless night that she owes it to PAUL and to her own self-respect to explore the possibility of beginning her life with HAROLD anew. She is terrified of him. She hopes that if she can keep calm and open, her fears will diminish. Perhaps she can love him again.
PENELOPE: ( attempting to behave mechanically as a good wife should ) What are his symptoms?
PAUL: Shivers and sweats and groans. His teeth chatter. What'll we do?
PENELOPE: What does he say to do?
PAUL: He can hardly talk.
HAROLD: ( responding to a last twinge of nausea ) You'd better get Dr. Woodly.
PENELOPE: You'd better get Dr. Woodly.
PAUL: It is an emergency, isn't it?
PENELOPE: It is an emergency, isn't it?
PAUL: ( uncertainly ) Then get him.
PENELOPE: Then get him.
PAUL: ( thinking she has made a mistake )
PAUL: Dr. Woodly?
PAUL: Dr. Woodly?
HAROLD: What's that all about?
PENELOPE: We thought a doctor might help.
HAROLD: Your old beau?
PENELOPE: We thought it was an emergency.
HAROLD: I don't want that chancre mechanic in here.
PENELOPE: He's a very decent man, Harold.
HAROLD: We all are.
PENELOPE: Shouldn't you lie down?
HAROLD: When I'm dead or fucking.
PENELOPE: Paul said you were awfully sick.
HAROLD: I was, I was. It never lasts long.
HAROLD: The Indians call it "Zamba- keetya"the little cloudburst.
WOODLY: Ah! You're ambulatory!
HAROLD: What a brilliant diagnosis!
PENELOPE: You know what I want? I want you both to be friends. I know you both, respect you both. You should be friends.
HAROLD: Nothing would please me more.
PENELOPE: ( believing him ) Thank God!
WOODLY: ( pleased but careful ) Well nowwhat seems to be the trouble with the patient today? A touch of malaria, perhaps?
HAROLD: I know malaria. Malaria isn't caused by the bites of bats.
WOODLY: You've been bitten by bats?
HAROLD: Colonel Harper and I once shared a treetop with a family of bats. There was a flash flood. There were piranha fish in the water. That's how Colonel Harper lost his little toe.
WOODLY: You have chills?
HAROLD: Chills, fevers, sweats. You can describe it and name it after yourself: "the Woodly galloping
HAROLD: You can also describe its cure. I'm eating its cure.
WOODLY: I was going to ask.
HAROLD: Pacqualinincheewa root.
WOODLY: Would you say that again?
HAROLD: Pacqualinincheewa root. Means "cougar fang." Cures anything but a yellow streak down the back.
WOODLY: I've never heard of it.
HAROLD: Congratulations. By crossing twenty-eight feet of cockroach- infested carpet, you've become the third white man ever to hear of it.
WOODLY: ( fascinated ) Are you've seen it work cures?
HAROLD: I'm so glad you like each other. I was so scared, so scared.
PENELOPE: I'm so glad you like each other. I was so scared, so scared.
HAROLD: ( breaking off a piece, offering it ) Have some.
WOODLY: Thank you. Thank you very much.
PENELOPE: I believe in miracles now.
HAROLD: Wasn't that sweet of me?
WOODLY: More and more we find ourselves laying aside false pride and looking into the pharmacopoeias of primitive people. Curare, ephedrinewe've found some amazing We have, have we?
HAROLD: We have, have we?
WOODLY: That's an editorial we, of course. I haven't turned up anything Everything about you is the editorial we. Take that away from you, and you'd disappear.
HAROLD: Everything about you is the editorial we. Take that away from you, and you'd disappear.
PENELOPE: I could carve a better man out of a You and your damned bedside manner and your damned little black bag full of miracles. You know who filled that bag for you? Not Alice-sit-by-the-fires like yourself. Men with guts filled it, by Godmen with guts enough to pay the price for miraclessuffering, ingratitude, loneliness, death
HAROLD: I could carve a better man out of a You and your damned bedside manner and your damned little black bag full of miracles. You know who filled that bag for you? Not Alice-sit-by-the-fires like yourself. Men with guts filled it, by Godmen with guts enough to pay the price for miraclessuffering, ingratitude, loneliness, death
PENELOPE: You and your damned bedside manner and your damned little black bag full of miracles. You know who filled that bag for you? Not Alice-sit-by-the-fires like yourself. Men with guts filled it, by Godmen with guts enough to pay the price for miraclessuffering, ingratitude, loneliness, death
HAROLD: You and your damned bedside manner and your damned little black bag full of miracles. You know who filled that bag for you? Not Alice-sit-by-the-fires like yourself. Men with guts filled it, by Godmen with guts enough to pay the price for miraclessuffering, ingratitude, loneliness, death
WOODLY: ( off balance ) Good Lord.
HAROLD: I can just hear the editorial wee- wee-weeing when Looseleaf and I start flying in pacqualinincheewa root. I can hear the Alice-sit-by- the-fires now: "We discovered it in the Amazon Rain Forest. Now we cure you with it. Now we lower our eyes with becoming modesty as we receive heartfelt thanks."
HAROLD: Oh, bless you, Doctor, bless you oh healer, oh protector, oh giver of life. He doesn't deserve this! You don't know him. It isn't fair!
PENELOPE: He doesn't deserve this! You don't know him. It isn't fair!
HAROLD: He thought he could take my place. It is now my privilege to give an unambiguous account of why I don't think he's man enough to do that.
WOODLY: I thought she was a widow.
HAROLD: You were wrong, you quack!
PENELOPE: ( approaching WOODLY, but not getting too close ) I can't tell you how sorry I am.
HAROLD: Say hello to your mother.
PENELOPE: ( fervently ) Do say hello to your mother.
WOODLY: I'm taking her to the airport a few minutes from now. She's going to East St. Louisto visit an aunt.
PENELOPE: Tell her to have a nice trip.
WOODLY: ( moving towards the front door ) I'm going to have to report you to the Department of Health.
WOODLY: I'm going to have to report you to the Department of Health.
HAROLD: What for?
WOODLY: Quarantine, possibly. You may be suffering from a loathsome disease which the American people could do without. Goodbye.
HAROLD: Now that's what I call fun.
PENELOPE: Ghastly, cruel, unnecessary.
HAROLD: You'll get so you enjoy twitting weaklings again. You used to eat it up.
PENELOPE: I did?
HAROLD: We were one hell of a pairand we'll be one again. What we need is a honeymoon. Let's start right A trip, you mean?
PENELOPE: A trip, you mean?
HAROLD: I had a trip. We'll honeymoon here. Go out and play.
PAUL: Your mother and I do not wish to be disturbed for three full hours.
HAROLD: Your mother and I do not wish to be disturbed for three full hours.
PENELOPE: He hasn't had breakfast yet.
HAROLD: Buy yourself breakfast. There we go.
PAUL: A hundred dollars!
HAROLD: The smallest thing I've got.
PAUL: Can I get dressed first?
HAROLD: Make it fast.
HAROLD: Honeymoon! Honeymoon! Say it: It's soso stark.
PENELOPE: It's soso stark.
HAROLD: You used to like it stark!
PENELOPE: Justbangwe have a honeymoon.
HAROLD: ( beginning to stalk her cunningly ) I'm not going to strike you. I am going to be as gentle as pieas lemon meringue pie. You mustn't run away now. This is your loving husband approaching. I'm your husband. Society approves!
HAROLD: Good! You held your ground.
HAROLD: Nowturn around, if you would.
PENELOPE: Turn around?
HAROLD: ( laughing ) I'm not about to introduce to you a jungle novelty. What I have in mind is massagea perfectly decent massage. Turn around, turn around.
HAROLD: I'm going to touch your shoulders very gently now. You mustn't So tense, so tense.
PENELOPE: You shouldn't have talked to Norbert that way.
HAROLD: You're thinking with your brain instead of your body. That's why you're so tense! Forget Norbert. Relax. It's body time.
PENELOPE: I have a brain.
HAROLD: We all do. But now it's body time. Relax. Ideally, the body of a woman should feel like a hot water bottle filled with Devonshire cream. You feel like a paper bag crammed with curtain rods. Think of your muscles one by one. Let them go slack. Relax. Let the brain go blank. Relax. That's the idea that's my girl. Now the small of the back. Let those knots over those kidneys unsnarl.
PAUL: ( entering, dressed to go out and play ) ( hanging on to PENELOPE, but knowing the mood has been broken ) Couldn't you have vanished quietly out the back door?
HAROLD: ( hanging on to PENELOPE, but knowing the mood has been broken ) Couldn't you have vanished quietly out the back door?
PAUL: A hundred dollars for breakfast?
HAROLD: Leave a tip.
PENELOPE: ( suddenly twisting away, having been nearly hypnotized ) I have some change!
HAROLD: Ram it up your ass!
HAROLD: I do beg your pardon. Those words were illy chosen. There is tension in all of us here. Something you must both understand, however, is that the head of this household is home, and he is Harold Ryan, and people do what he says when he says it. That's the way this particular clock is constructed.
HAROLD: Sometimes even I hate that thing.
LOOSELEAF: ( walking right in ) I've been looking at motorcycles.
HAROLD: Go home!
LOOSELEAF: You ever own a motorcycle?
HAROLD: ( to PENELOPE ) You're right! We'll take a trip. A trip is what we'll take. ( to LOOSELEAF ) I don't want to talk about motorcycles. I don't want to talk about tits. Go home!
LOOSELEAF: Haven't got one.
PENELOPE: ( to LOOSELEAF ) And you went home unannounced, too?
LOOSELEAF: I dunno. Yeah! Yeah! Yeah! I did.
HAROLD: And how were things?
LOOSELEAF: Let's talk about something else.
PENELOPE: ( to HAROLD ) Alice got married again.
LOOSELEAF: She did?
PENELOPE: You didn't even find that out?
LOOSELEAF: There was so much going on.
PENELOPE: She married an accountant named Stanley Kestenbaum.
LOOSELEAF: So that's it! "Kestenbaum, Kestenbaum." Everybody was yelling "Kestenbaum, Kestenbaum." I thought it was some foreign language.
HAROLD: Otherwise, how are things?
LOOSELEAF: I sure didn't expect her to drop dead.
PENELOPE: ( sick ) Alice is dead?
LOOSELEAF: ( sick ) Alice is dead?
PENELOPE: ( sick ) Alice is dead?
LOOSELEAF: No, noshit no. Excuse me, Penelope.
PENELOPE: For what?
LOOSELEAF: For saying "shit." Or is that okay Who's dead?
PENELOPE: ( shrilly ) Who's dead?
LOOSELEAF: My mother-in-law. Fire engines, pulmotors, doctors, cops, coroners
PENELOPE: What happened?
LOOSELEAF: WellI walked up to the front door. I was still alive. Big surprise. I rang the doorbell, and old Mrs. Wheeler answered. She had her Goddamn knitting. I said, "Guess who?" She conked right out.
PENELOPE: How horrible.
LOOSELEAF: Yeahcripes. I never did get any sense out of Alice. She found me holding up the old lady, dead as a mackerel. It was a bitch. You knowmaybe Mrs. Wheeler was going to die then and there anyway, even if I'd been the paper boy. Maybe not. I dunno, boy. That's civilian life for you. Who knows what kills anybody?
HAROLD: Could have happened to anybody.
LOOSELEAF: First Nagasakinow this.
HAROLD: How about breakfast, wife?
PENELOPE: ( as though to a waitress ) Scrambled eggs, kippered herring, fried potatoesand a whole onion. I want to eat the onion like an apple. Do you understand?
HAROLD: ( as though to a waitress ) Scrambled eggs, kippered herring, fried potatoesand a whole onion. I want to eat the onion like an apple. Do you understand?
HAROLD: And lots of orange juiceoceans of orange juice.
PENELOPE: Mrs. Wheeler is dead.
HAROLD: All rightbring me a side order of Mrs. Wheeler. Oh, hellsit down, Colonel. Penelope will bring you some chow.
PENELOPE: That is the most heartless statement I ever heard pass between human lips.
HAROLD: ( honestly mystified ) Which one?
PENELOPE: ( chokingly ) "Bring me a side order of Mrs. She's up in Heaven now. She didn't hear. She is experiencing nothing but pure happiness. There's nothing nicer than that. ( suddenly, angrily, slamming a table with his fist ) Chow! Harold Ryan wants chow!
HAROLD: She's up in Heaven now. She didn't hear. She is experiencing nothing but pure happiness. There's nothing nicer than that. Chow! Harold Ryan wants chow!
PENELOPE: What a honeymoon.
HAROLD: Honeymoon temporarily canceled. The boy should still go out and exercise. I have the impression he never gets any exercise. He simply bloats himself with Fig Newtons and bakes his brains over steam radiators.
PENELOPE: You're wrong.
HAROLD: Then let me see him go out and get some exercise. Right now!
PAUL: ( to HAROLD, abjectly ) What kind of exercise?
HAROLD: Beat the shit out of someone who hates you.
HAROLD: Chow, chow, chow! God damn it We're all going to have to go out for breakfast. The cook quit You're a woman, aren't you?
PENELOPE: We're all going to have to go out for breakfast. The cook quit You're a woman, aren't you?
HAROLD: You're a woman, aren't you?
HAROLD: Then we have a cook.
HAROLD: Cook, by God! Cook! You're the nigger now.
PENELOPE: People don't use that word any more.
HAROLD: Don't lecture me on race relations. I don't have a molecule of prejudice. I've been in battle with every kind of man there is. I've been in bed with every kind of woman there isfrom a Laplander to a Tierra del Fuegian. If I'd ever been to the South Pole, there'd be a hell of a lot of penguins who looked like me. Cook!
PENELOPE: You leave me soso without without dignity.
HAROLD: People now have dignity when frying They don't have to feel like slaves.
PENELOPE: They don't have to feel like slaves.
HAROLD: ( grandly ) Then go nowand fry with dignity sunnyside up.
LOOSELEAF: I dunno, boy.
HAROLD: The educational process.
LOOSELEAF: I guess. You're lucky you don't have any old people around here.
HAROLD: She was about to get married again. She locked me out of the bedroom last night.
HAROLD: What's funny about that?
LOOSELEAF: ( apologetically ) You know me, boy.
HAROLD: I should have torn that door off its hinges. Should have scrogged her ears off. Should have broken the bed. What do you want? II was wonderingis there anything you shouldn't eatbecause of jungle fever?
PENELOPE: II was wonderingis there anything you shouldn't eatbecause of jungle fever?
HAROLD: I could eat a raw baby crocodile. The way to get your wife back is in bed. Do such a job on her that she'll be lucky if she can crawl around on all fours. We're starving. Do you mind?
HAROLD: She had two lovers, by the way. Excuse me.
LOOSELEAF: Excuse me.
HAROLD: One of them is the doctor, whose weapons are compassion, unselfishness, peacefulness maudlin concern.
LOOSELEAF: He and his love are like a retiarius. Do you know what a retiarius is?
HAROLD: He and his love are like a retiarius. Do you know what a retiarius is?
LOOSELEAF: He's a kind of gladiator who fights with a knife and a net and doesn't wear anything but a jockstrap.
HAROLD: ( amazed ) How do you know that?
LOOSELEAF: You told me.
HAROLD: When we were up in the tree so longwith the bats.
LOOSELEAF: When we were up in the tree so longwith the bats.
HAROLD: Oh. I'd forgotten.
LOOSELEAF: Fourteen times you told me. I You'd get this funny look in your eyes, and I'd say to myself, "Oh, Jesushe's going to tell me what a retiarius is again."
HAROLD: You'd get this funny look in your eyes, and I'd say to myself, "Oh, Jesushe's going to tell me what a retiarius is again."
LOOSELEAF: You'd get this funny look in your eyes, and I'd say to myself, "Oh, Jesushe's going to tell me what a retiarius is again."
HAROLD: ( acknowledging a flaw in a manly way )
HAROLD: Let me guessbreakfast is served?
PENELOPE: What then?
HAROLD: What then?
PENELOPE: I do not wish to be scroggedever. I never heard that word, but when I heard it, I knew it was one thing I never wanted to have happen to me.
HAROLD: That's what you're supposed to say.
PENELOPE: This is not a coy deception. I do not want to be scrogged. I want love. I want tenderness.
HAROLD: You don't know you want. That's the way God built you!
PENELOPE: I will not be scrogged. I remember one time I saw you wrench a hook from the throat of a fish with a pair of pliers, and you promised me that the fish couldn't feel.
HAROLD: It couldn't!
PENELOPE: I'd like to have the expert opinion of the fishalong with yours.
HAROLD: ( shaking his head ) Fish can't feel.
PENELOPE: Well, I can. Some injuries, spiritual or physical, can be excruciating to me. I'm not a silly carhop any more. Maybe you're right about fish. When I was a carhop, I didn't feel much more than a fish would. But I've been sensitized. I have ideas nowand solid information. I know a lot more nowand a lot of it has to do with you.
HAROLD: ( sensing danger ) Such as?.
PENELOPE: The whole concept of heroismand its sexual roots.
HAROLD: Tell me about its sexual roots.
PENELOPE: It's complicated and I don't want to go into it now, because it's bound to sound insultingeven though nobody means for anybody to be insulted. It's just the truth.
HAROLD: I like the truth. I wouldn't be alive today if I weren't one of the biggest fans truth ever had.
PENELOPE: Wellpart of it is that heroes basically hate home and never stay there very long, and make awful messes while they're there.
HAROLD: Go on.
PENELOPE: ( blurting ) And they have very mixed feelings about women. They hate them in a way. One reason they like war so much is that they can capture enemy women and not have to make love to them slowly and gently. They can scrog them, as you say ( pause ) for revenge.
HAROLD: You learned this in some college I learned a lot of things in college. Actuallyit was Norbert who told me that.
PENELOPE: I learned a lot of things in college. Actuallyit was Norbert who told me that.
HAROLD: ( darkly ) The doctor.
PENELOPE: And what is his most cherished His most cherished possession? His violin, I guess.
HAROLD: And what is his most cherished His most cherished possession? His violin, I guess.
PENELOPE: ( not sensing the drift of the conversation ) His most cherished possession? His violin, I guess.
HAROLD: And he keeps it in his apartment?
PENELOPE: ( still at sea ) And no one's there now?
HAROLD: And no one's there now?
PENELOPE: I don't think so.
HAROLD: That's too bad. I would rather have him at hometo see what I'm going to do.
PENELOPE: ( suddenly catching on, sick with fear ) What are you going to do?
HAROLD: He did his best to destroy my most precious possession, which is the high opinion women have of me. I'm now going to even that score. I'm going to break in his door and I'm going to smash his violin.
PENELOPE: No you're not!
HAROLD: Why not?
PENELOPE: Because if you doI'll leave you.
HAROLD: ( promptly and emotionlessly )
SCENE TWO: SPOTLIGHT comes up on VON KONIGSWALD and WANDA JUNE, dressed as before. They have become close friends.
WANDA JUNE: We have this new club up here in Yes, we do.
VON KONIGSWALD: Yes, we do.
WANDA JUNE: We only have two members so far, but it's growing all the time.
VON KONIGSWALD: We have enough for a shuffleboard team. In Heaven, shuffleboard is everything. Hitler plays Albert Einstein plays shuffleboard.
WANDA JUNE: Albert Einstein plays shuffleboard.
VON KONIGSWALD: Mozart plays shuffleboard.
WANDA JUNE: Lewis Carroll, who wrote Alice in Wonderland, plays shuffleboard.
VON KONIGSWALD: Jack the Ripper plays shuffleboard.
WANDA JUNE: Walt Disney, who gave us Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs, plays shuffleboard. Jesus Christ plays It was almost worth the tripto find out that Jesus Christ in Heaven was just another guy, playing shuffleboard. I like his sense of humor, thoughyou know? He's got a blue-and-gold warm-up jacket he wears. You know what it says on the back? "Pontius Pilate Athletic Club." Most people don't get it. Most people think there really is a Pontius Pilate Athletic We're going to have jackets, aren't You bet! "The Harold Ryan Fan Club." Pink, eh? With a yellow streak up the back. We got very good tailor shops up here. They'll make you any kind of uniform, any kind of sweatsuit you want. Judas Iscariothe's got this black jacket with a skull and crossbones over the heart. He walks around all hunched over, and he never looks anybody in the eye, and written on the back of his jacket are the words, "Go take a
VON KONIGSWALD: It was almost worth the tripto find out that Jesus Christ in Heaven was just another guy, playing shuffleboard. I like his sense of humor, thoughyou know? He's got a blue-and-gold warm-up jacket he wears. You know what it says on the back? "Pontius Pilate Athletic Club." Most people don't get it. Most people think there really is a Pontius Pilate Athletic We're going to have jackets, aren't You bet! "The Harold Ryan Fan Club." Pink, eh? With a yellow streak up the back. We got very good tailor shops up here. They'll make you any kind of uniform, any kind of sweatsuit you want. Judas Iscariothe's got this black jacket with a skull and crossbones over the heart. He walks around all hunched over, and he never looks anybody in the eye, and written on the back of his jacket are the words, "Go take a
WANDA JUNE: We're going to have jackets, aren't You bet! "The Harold Ryan Fan Club." Pink, eh? With a yellow streak up the back. We got very good tailor shops up here. They'll make you any kind of uniform, any kind of sweatsuit you want. Judas Iscariothe's got this black jacket with a skull and crossbones over the heart. He walks around all hunched over, and he never looks anybody in the eye, and written on the back of his jacket are the words, "Go take a
VON KONIGSWALD: You bet! "The Harold Ryan Fan Club." Pink, eh? With a yellow streak up the back. We got very good tailor shops up here. They'll make you any kind of uniform, any kind of sweatsuit you want. Judas Iscariothe's got this black jacket with a skull and crossbones over the heart. He walks around all hunched over, and he never looks anybody in the eye, and written on the back of his jacket are the words, "Go take a
VON KONIGSWALD: leap at the moon."
VON KONIGSWALD: Aha! Hello! You're Mildred, right?
MILDRED: I heard you were looking for me.
VON KONIGSWALD: You were Harold Ryan's third wife. You want to join the Harold Ryan Fan Club? Wear a pink jacket with a yellow streak up the back?
MILDRED: VON KONIGSWALD
VON KONIGSWALD: You want to join the Harold Ryan Fan Club? Wear a pink jacket with a yellow streak up the back?
MILDRED: Do I have to? Who's the little girl?
WANDA JUNE: Mr. Ryan just borrowed my birthday cake. I don't really know him.
MILDRED: Thought you were another wife, maybe.
WANDA JUNE: I'm only ten years old.
MILDRED: That's what he wanteda ten-year- old wife. He'd come home from a war or a safari, and he'd wind up talking to the little kids.
WANDA JUNE: Won't you please join our club? HoneyAlcoholics Anonymous takes all the time I've gotand Harold Ryan is an individual I would rather forget. He drove me to drink. He drove his first two wives to drink.
MILDRED: HoneyAlcoholics Anonymous takes all the time I've gotand Harold Ryan is an individual I would rather forget. He drove me to drink. He drove his first two wives to drink.
VON KONIGSWALD: Because he was cruel?
MILDRED: ( covering WANDA JUNE's little ears ) Premature ejaculation.
VON KONIGSWALD: Ach soooooooooo.
MILDRED: No grown woman is a fan of premature ejaculation. Harold would come home trumpeting and roaring. He would the kick the furniture with his boots, spit into corners and the fireplace. He would make me presents of stuffed fish and helmets with holes in them. He would tell me that he had now earned the reward that only a woman could give him, and he'd tear off my clothes. He would carry me into the bedroom, telling me to scream and kick my feet. That was very important to him. I did it. I tried to be a good wife. He told me to imagine a herd of stampeding water buffalo. I couldn't do that, but I pretended I did. It was all overten seconds after he'd said the word "buffalo." Then he'd zip up his pants, and go outside, and tell true war stories to the little kids. Any little kids.
VON KONIGSWALD: That is sad.
MILDRED: ( blankly ) Is it? ( pause ) I have this theory about why men kill each other and break things.
VON KONIGSWALD: Never mind. It's a dumb theory. I was going to say it was all sexual..but everything is sexual.but alcohol. VON KONIGSWALD WANDA JUNE ( making peace sign ) ( making peace sign )
MILDRED: Never mind. It's a dumb theory. I was going to say it was all sexual..but everything is sexual.but alcohol. VON KONIGSWALD WANDA JUNE ( making peace sign ) ( making peace sign )
SCENE THREE: SILENCE. Darkness.
LOOSELEAF: Go to the funeral?
HAROLD: Of course! Not only go to it but go to it in full uniform! Rent a That's against the law, isn't it? I can't wear a uniform anymore.
LOOSELEAF: That's against the law, isn't it? I can't wear a uniform anymore.
HAROLD: Wear your uniform and every decoration, and let them despise you, if they dare.
LOOSELEAF: Alice would be absolutely tear-ass.
HAROLD: When I was a naive young recruit in Spain, I used to wonder why soldiers bayoneted oil paintings, shot the noses off of statues and defecated into grand pianos. I now understand: It was to teach civilians the deepest sort of respect for men in uniform uncontrollable fear. To our women.
LOOSELEAF: I didn't know we had any women left.
HAROLD: The world is teeming with women ours to enjoy.
LOOSELEAF: Every time I start thinking like that I get the clap.
HAROLD: ( going to the door ) This could be my next wife.
SHUTTLE: ( puzzled by HAROLD ) How are you, honeybunch?
HAROLD: How are you, honeybunch?
SHUTTLE: Is Penelope in?
HAROLD: The posies are for her?
SHUTTLE: I wanted to apologize.
HAROLD: You've come to the right man.
SHUTTLE: I forgot my vacuum cleaner.
HAROLD: I forget mine for years on end.
SHUTTLE: ( suddenly realizing who HAROLD is ) Oh my God ( pause; points ) And you are Looseleaf Harper.
LOOSELEAF: SHUTTLE faints.
HAROLD: ( crowing ) It's what I've dreamed of all my life, Looseleaf! To have a grown man realize who I wasand faint! ( to audience ) End of Act Two.
ACT THREE: SCENE ONE MILDRED enters drunkenly up aisle, sits precariously on apron of stage and speaks to audience.
SCENE ONE: MILDRED enters drunkenly up aisle, sits precariously on apron of stage and speaks to audience.
MILDRED: Two days later. The afternoon of the day of Looseleaf Harper's mother-in-law's funeral. You got it? Two days later. You know what happened in Heaven today? There was a tornado. I'm not kidding youthere was a Goddamn tornado. Tore up fifty-six houses, a dance pavilion and a Ferris wheel. Drove a shuffleboard stick clear through a telephone pole. Nobody got killed. Nobody ever gets killed. They just bounce around a lot. Then they get up and start playing shuffleboard. I never saw a tornado when I was alive, and I grew up in Oklahoma. There's this big, black, funnel- shaped cloud. Sounds like a railroad train without the whistle. I had to come to Heaven to see a thing like that. A lot of people got photographs. After the tornado was over, a man had some film left and he wanted to take pictures of meto use up the roll. I don't like people who go around taking pictures of everything. Nothing's real to some people unless they've got photographs. Two days laterright?
LOOSELEAF: I told you the uniform wouldn't help.
HAROLD: It helped more than you know. Down deep, people were deeply affected.
LOOSELEAF: You keep on saying "deep" and "deeply." I wish something good would happen on the surface sometime.
SHUTTLE: I can't get over how you guys are my friends. Harold Ryan and Looseleaf Harper are my friends.
HAROLD: Our pleasure.
SHUTTLE: Eight years you guys were together through thick and thin.
HAROLD: For seven and a half of those years we were heavily druggedor we would have been home long before now, believe me. We were saved from starvation by the Lupi-Loopo Indians, who fed us a strange blue Blue soup.
SHUTTLE: Blue soup.
HAROLD: It sapped our willmade us peaceful and unenterprising. It was a form of chemical castration. We became two more sleepy Indians.
LOOSELEAF: ( to PAUL ) So, kidhow they hanging? Or don't you say that to a little kid?
HAROLD: He's a man. Tell him you're a man.
PAUL: I'm a man.
HAROLD: We've got to do something to make this boy's voice change. I wonder if we couldn't get bull balls somewhere, and fry 'em up. Still miss your mother?
PAUL: ( weakly ) You're free to go to her, if you want. If you'd rather be a woman and run with the women, just say the word.
HAROLD: You're free to go to her, if you want. If you'd rather be a woman and run with the women, just say the word.
SHUTTLE: Are we really going to find out where the elephants go to die?
HAROLD: I'd rather go to Viet Nam.
SHUTTLE: Would somebody please pass me the What you say is, "Pass the fucking Pass the fucking catsup.
HAROLD: What you say is, "Pass the fucking Pass the fucking catsup.
SHUTTLE: Pass the fucking catsup.
SHUTTLE: I keep thinking about Africaand the elephants.
LOOSELEAF: I don't think I'll go.
HAROLD: Of course you'll go! You're going to fly the helicopter.
LOOSELEAF: I dunno.
HAROLD: You're so low! Look at that beautiful red meat. You haven't touched it.
LOOSELEAF: Sorry. At least you've got a place to come back to. I don't have a place to come back to anymore.
HAROLD: All the more reason to go to Africa.
LOOSELEAF: I dunno. You know. I used to really love that Alice. Do you know that?
HAROLD: You know her for what she is now I dunno.
LOOSELEAF: I dunno.
HAROLD: She was always a rotten wife! She was against everything manly you ever wanted to do. He was the most daring test pilot in the country at one time, and his wife made him quit. She made him become a life insurance salesman I'd think any woman worth her salt would be proud to be married to a test pilot. I know I would.
SHUTTLE: I'd think any woman worth her salt would be proud to be married to a test pilot. I know I would.
LOOSELEAF: She tried to like it. She was a very nervous woman.
SHUTTLE: I could tell that at the funeral. Would you please pass the fucking catsup again? Was it dangerous testing planes?
LOOSELEAF: I dunno. Who knows? You know you're up there, and you're in some plane nobody ever flew before. You put her into a dive, and everything starts screaming and shaking, and maybe some pipe breaks and squirts oil or gasoline or hydraulic fluid in your face. You wonder how the hell you ever got in such a mess, and then you pull back on the controls, and you black out for a couple of seconds. When you come to, everything's usually fairly okayexcept maybe you threw up all over yourself. It's just another job, but you try and tell Alice that.
HAROLD: You actually sold insurance!
SHUTTLE: You actually sold insurance!
LOOSELEAF: I tried. I sold him some. That was the only insurance I ever sold.
SHUTTLE: What an awful sound!
HAROLD: Get used to it. Back door, Paul.
HAROLD: ( to SHUTTLE ) It's possible, of course, that you'll die in Africa.
SHUTTLE: I've considered that.
HAROLD: Selling vacuum cleaners isn't the best preparation you could have.
SHUTTLE: I just want one true adventure before I die.
HAROLD: That can be arranged.
PAUL: Who was it?
HAROLD: Who was it?
PAUL: It's Mom.
LOOSELEAF: ( openly, cheerfully ) Hi, Penelope.
HAROLD: ( to LOOSELEAF ) Shut up, you ninny! ( to PENELOPE ) You were never to come here again for any reason whatsoever!
PENELOPE: I came for my clothes.
HAROLD: Sneaking in the back door.
PENELOPE: I rang. It seemed like the proper door for a servile, worthless organism to use.
HAROLD: Your clothes are at the city dump by now. Perhaps you can get a map from the Department of Sanitation.
PENELOPE: I came for Paul as well.
HAROLD: If he wants to go.
PENELOPE: You took him to the funeral, I hear.
HAROLD: He'd never seen a corpse. He's seen a dozen now.
PENELOPE: A dozen?
HAROLD: It's a big and busy funeral home.
PENELOPE: ( to PAUL ) Did you like it, dear?
HAROLD: It isn't a matter of liking. It's a matter of getting used to death as a perfectly natural thing. Would you mind leaving? No woman ever walks out on Harold Ryan, and then comes backfor anything.
PENELOPE: Unless she has nerve.
HAROLD: More nerve than the doctor, I must admit. He hasn't been home for two days. Has he suddenly lost interest in sleep and color televisionand the violin?
PENELOPE: He knows you shattered his violin.
HAROLD: I'm dying to hear of his reaction. The thrill of smashing something isn't in the smashing, but in the owner's reactions.
PENELOPE: He cried.
HAROLD: About a broomstick and a cigar boxand the attenuated intestines of an alley cat.
PENELOPE: Two hundred years old.
HAROLD: He feels awful losswhich was precisely my intention.
PENELOPE: ( moving toward the violin, and, incidentally, placing herself much closer to SHUTTLE ) He had hoped that someone would be playing it stilltwo hundred years from now.
HAROLD: ( echoing, expressing the futility of such long-term expectations )
HAROLD: Do you hope with all your heart that someone will be using this vacuum cleaner two hundred years from now?
HAROLD: Fifty years?
SHUTTLE: You're making a joke.
HAROLD: ( not joking ) I'm interested in long-term ( flatly, protecting his dignity ) It's engineered to last about fifteen years.
SHUTTLE: ( flatly, protecting his dignity ) It's engineered to last about fifteen years.
HAROLD: ( downstage center, addressing the civilized world ) Things. Ohyou silly people and your things. Things, things, things.
PENELOPE: ( to SHUTTLE, as HAROLD reflects majestically on the emptiness of materialism ) You and Harold are friends?
SHUTTLE: ( revealing how mixed and worried his feelings are ) He's the most wonderful guy I ever met, Penelope. He's the most complicated guy I ever met. I can't believe it, but he's going to take me to Africa with him.
HAROLD: You feel I've done a dreadful thingleaving him?
PENELOPE: You feel I've done a dreadful thingleaving him?
SHUTTLE: ( almost hypnotized ) If I were married to him, I sure wouldn't walk out.
HAROLD: ( directly to the audience ) Never mind the condition of your body and your spirit! Look after your things, your things!
PENELOPE: ( to LOOSELEAF ) And you, Colonel? Let me guess: You don't know.
LOOSELEAF: I dunno.
HAROLD: ( to the audience ) Go live in a safe-deposit boxwith your things.
LOOSELEAF: JesusI wouldn't want to be married to him. You know?
HAROLD: What's this?
LOOSELEAF: I wouldn't want to be married to me. We're too crazy. You know?
HAROLD: In what way, pray tell?
LOOSELEAF: I didn't like that violin thing. That was sad.
HAROLD: Tit for tatas simple as that.
LOOSELEAF: You never played a violin.
HAROLD: You did?
LOOSELEAF: Yeah. I practically forgot. But after you busted that thing, I got to thinking, "Jesusmaybe I'll start the violin again." That didn't just belong to Woodly. That belonged to everybody. Maybe he would have sold it to me, and I could have some fun. After you busted the violin, boy, and Penelope walked out, I thought to myself, "Jesuswho could blame her?"
HAROLD: Maybe it's time you got out.
LOOSELEAF: ( pause ) You're an imbecile.
HAROLD: ( pause ) You're an imbecile.
LOOSELEAF: ( pause ) You're an imbecile.
HAROLD: You're an imbecile.
LOOSELEAF: I know you think that.
HAROLD: Everybody thinks that.
LOOSELEAF: Anybody who'd drop an atom bomb on a city has to be pretty dumb.
HAROLD: The one direct, decisive, intelligent act of your life!
LOOSELEAF: ( shaking his head ) I don't think so. ( pause ) It could have been.
HAROLD: If what?
LOOSELEAF: If I hadn't done it. If I'd said to myself, "Screw it. I'm going to let all those people down there They were enemies. We were at war.
HAROLD: They were enemies. We were at war.
LOOSELEAF: Yeah, Jesusbut wars would be a lot better, I think, if guys would say to themselves sometimes, "JesusI'm not going to do that to the enemy. That's too much." You could have been the manufacturer of that violin there, even though you don't know how to make a violin, just by not busting it up. I could have been the father of all those people in Nagasaki, and the mother, too, just by not dropping the bomb. I sent 'em to Heaven insteadand I don't think there is one.
HAROLD: Goodbye, Looseleaf.
LOOSELEAF: So long, you guys.
PENELOPE: What will you do, Colonel?
LOOSELEAF: I dunno. Marry the first whore who's nice to me, I guess. Get a job in a motorcycle shop. So long, you guys.
SHUTTLE: Who's going to fly our helicopter now?
HAROLD: ( blackly, tautly ) We got to get another pilot.
SHUTTLE: We got to get another pilot.
HAROLD: For what?
SHUTTLE: For Africa.
HAROLD: Do you really think that Harold Ryan would go to Africa with a vacuum cleaner salesman?
SHUTTLE: You invited me.
HAROLD: To make an ass of yourself.
SHUTTLE: What went wrong?
HAROLD: We're ahead of schedule, that's all. You're finding out here what you would have found out in Africa that you are a rabbit, born to be eaten alive.
SHUTTLE: Gee whiz
HAROLD: It would have been fun to see you drop your rifle and run the first time an elephant charged us.
SHUTTLE: I wouldn't drop my gun.
HAROLD: You're hollow, like a woman.
SHUTTLE: I'm smarter than Looseleaf.
HAROLD: He can shoot! He can hold his ground! He can attack! You're in your proper profession right now sucking up dirt for frumpish housewives, closet drunkards every How do you know how I'd act in Africa?
SHUTTLE: ( close to tears ) How do you know how I'd act in Africa?
HAROLD: Look how you're acting now! This is a moment of truth, and you're almost crying. Slug me!
SHUTTLE: You're my buddy.
HAROLD: Out! Out!
SHUTTLE: No matter what you say to me, I still think you're the greatest guy I ever knew.
HAROLD: Youyou aren't going to have any friends left, if you don't watch out.
SHUTTLE: Youyou aren't going to have any friends left, if you don't watch out.
HAROLD: Thank God!
HAROLD: Wellwhat have we here? A family.
PENELOPE: Almost a Christmas scene.
HAROLD: Goodbye, goodbye, goodbye.
PENELOPE: Just one favor.
HAROLD: Money? There's plenty of that. Mildred got the brewery. You'll probably get the baseball team.
PENELOPE: I want you to tell me that you loved me once.
PENELOPE: I mean it! I must have that, and so must Paul. Tell him that he was conceived in love, even though you hate me now. Tell both of us that somewhere is our lives was love.
HAROLD: Testimonials of that sort areare beyond my range. I don't do them That's a failing, I know.
PENELOPE: ( accepting this ruefully ) I see.
PAUL: I don't care. I don't care if there was love or not. That's all right. I'm going to go to my room and close the door. I don't want to hear any more.
HAROLD: See how you've upset him. He was so merry and hale before you came How unhappy he's going to bealone in his room.
PENELOPE: How unhappy he's going to bealone in his room.
HAROLD: He'll play with his rifle, I expect. That will cheer him up.
PENELOPE: I bought him a twenty-two yesterdayon the way home from Hamburger Heaven. And where is the good doctor? Have you two feathered a love nest somewhere?
HAROLD: I bought him a twenty-two yesterdayon the way home from Hamburger Heaven. And where is the good doctor? Have you two feathered a love nest somewhere?
PENELOPE: He's in East St. Louis with his mothervisiting an aunt.
HAROLD: Last I heard, his mother was going He's afraid of you, Harold. He knew you'd want to fight him. He doesn't know anything about fighting. He hates pain.
PENELOPE: He's afraid of you, Harold. He knew you'd want to fight him. He doesn't know anything about fighting. He hates pain.
HAROLD: And you, a supposedly healthy woman, do not detest him for his It seems highly intelligent to me.
PENELOPE: It seems highly intelligent to me.
HAROLD: What kind of a country has this become? The men wear beads and refuse to fightand the woman adore them. America's days of greatness are over. It has drunk the blue soup.
PENELOPE: Blue soup?
HAROLD: An Indian narcotic we were forced to drink. It put us in a hazea honey-colored haze which was lavender around the edge. We laughed, we sang, we snoozed. When a bird called, we answered back. Every living thing was our brother or our sister, we thought. Looseleaf stepped on a cockroach six inches long, and we cried. We had a funeral that went on for five daysfor the cockroach! I sang "Oh Promise Me." Can you imagine? Where the hell did I ever learn the words to "Oh Promise Me"? Looseleaf delivered a lecture on maintenance procedures for the hydraulic system of a B-36. All the time we were drinking more blue soup, more blue soup! Never stopped drinking blue soup. Blue soup all the time. We'd go out after food in that honey-colored haze, and everything that was edible had a penumbra of Sounds quite beautiful.
PENELOPE: Sounds quite beautiful.
HAROLD: ( angered ) Beautiful, you say? It wasn't life, it wasn't deathit wasn't ( anger still mounting ) Beautiful? Seven years gone ( snapping his fingers ) like that, like that! Seven years of silliness and random dreams! Seven years of nothingness, when there could have been so much!
PENELOPE: Like what?
HAROLD: ( becoming dangerously physical, seizing a battle-ax ) Action! Interaction! Give and take! Challenge and response!
PAUL: ( rushing in with his .22 rifle at a high port arms ) What's this?
HAROLD: What's this?
HAROLD: What's this?
PAUL: That's a rifle you have?
HAROLD: That's a rifle you have?
PAUL: Of course it is. Is it loaded?
HAROLD: Of course it is. Is it loaded?
PAUL: Open the bolt!
HAROLD: Open the bolt!
HAROLD: That's a cartridge, if I'm not mistaken. Gunpowder, bullet, cartridge case, and fulminate of mercury percussion capall set to go.
PAUL: I was cleaning it.
HAROLD: Pick up that cartridge and slip it back into the chamberwhere it Gee whiz, Dad
PAUL: Gee whiz, Dad
HAROLD: Welcome to manhood, you little sparrowfart! Load that gun!
PAUL: ( bleatingly ) Too late! It's man to man now. Protecting your mother from me, are you? Protect her!`
HAROLD: Too late! It's man to man now. Protecting your mother from me, are you? Protect her!`
PENELOPE: He's a child!
HAROLD: With an iron penis three feet long. Load it, boy.
PENELOPE: You're begging him to kill you?
HAROLD: If he thinks he's man enough.
PENELOPE: ( amazed by sudden insight ) That's really what you want. You become furious when people won't make you dead.
HAROLD: I'm teaching my son to be a man.
PENELOPE: So he can kill you. You hate your own life that much. You beg for a hero to kill you.
HAROLD: I plan to live one hundred years!
PENELOPE: No you don't.
HAROLD: If that's the casewhat's to prevent my killing myself?
PENELOPE: Honor, I suppose.
HAROLD: What a handsome word.
PENELOPE: ( wonderingly ) But it's all balled up in your head with death. The highest honor is death. When you talk of these animals, one by one, you don't just talk of killing them. You honored them with death. Haroldit is not honor to be killed.
HAROLD: If you've lived a good life, fought It's still just death, the absence of lifeno honor at all. It's worse than the blue soup by far that nothingness. To you, though, it's the honor that crowns them all.
PENELOPE: It's still just death, the absence of lifeno honor at all. It's worse than the blue soup by far that nothingness. To you, though, it's the honor that crowns them all.
HAROLD: May I continue with the rearing of my son? Load that gun!
HAROLD: Load it!
HAROLD: Then speak, by God! Can you fight with words?
PAUL: I don't want to fight you.
HAROLD: Get mad! Tell me you don't like the way I treat your mother! Tell me you wish I'd never come home!
PAUL: ( weakly ) It's your house, Dad.
HAROLD: ( throwing up his hands ) Everybody simply evaporates! ( including the audience, inviting it to share his indignation ) There are guest issues to be fought out hereor to be argued, at least. The enemy, the champion of all who oppose me, is in East St. Louis with his mother and his aunt! I have so far done battle with a woman and a child and a violin.
PENELOPE: The old heroes are going to have to get used to this, Haroldthe new heroes who refuse to fight. They're trying to save the planet. There's no time for battle, no point to battle anymore.
HAROLD: I feel mocked, insulted, with no sort of satisfaction in prospect. We don't have to fight with steel. I can fight with words. I'm not an inarticulate ape, you know, who grabs a rock for want of a vocabulary. Call him up in East St. Louis, Penelope. Tell him to come
PENELOPE: ( emptily, turning away )
HAROLD: ( emptily, turning away )
HAROLD: And my son, the only son of Harold Ryanhe's going to grow up to be a vanisher, too?
PENELOPE: I don't know. I hope he never hunts. I hope he never kills another human being.
HAROLD: ( to PAUL, quietly ) You hope this, too?
PAUL: I don't know what I hope. But I don't think you care what I hope, anyway. You don't know me. You don't know her, either. I don't think you know anybody. You talk to everybody just the same.
HAROLD: I'm talking to you gently now.
PAUL: Yeah. But it's going to get loud He's right, Harold. To you, we're simply pieces in a gamethis one labeled "woman," that one labeled "son." There is no piece labeled "enemy" and you are confused.
PENELOPE: He's right, Harold. To you, we're simply pieces in a gamethis one labeled "woman," that one labeled "son." There is no piece labeled "enemy" and you are confused.
HAROLD: There won't be anybody out there. That's the new style: nobody anywhere.
PENELOPE: ( aghast, chokingly ) Get out of here.
WOODLY: It's really that bad?
PENELOPE: You fool, you fool.
WOODLY: Ohlook at the poor, crucified violin, would you?
HAROLD: It died for your sins.
WOODLY: This little corpse is intended as a There's a certain amount of information there.
HAROLD: There's a certain amount of information there.
WOODLY: Lest we forget how cruel you are.
PENELOPE: ( moving to the telephone ) I'm going to call the police.
HAROLD: ( frighteningly ) I agree.
WOODLY: I agree.
HAROLD: This is man to man.
WOODLY: It's healer to killer. Is that the same thing?
HAROLD: What brought you back?
WOODLY: The same hairy, humorless old gods who move you from hither to yon. "Honor, " if you like.
HAROLD: ( to PENELOPE ) He's a champion after all.
WOODLY: Of the corpses and cripples you create for our instructionwhen all we can learn from them is this: how cruel you are.
PENELOPE: This is suicide. Go get the police.
HAROLD: PAUL stops.
HAROLD: There's going to be no bloodshed here. I know how he'll fightthe only way he can fight: with words. The truth. Am I correct?
WOODLY: I can defeat him with anything from flavored toothpicks to siege howitzers. But he got it into his little head that he could come here and demolish Harold Ryan with words. The truth! Correct?
HAROLD: I can defeat him with anything from flavored toothpicks to siege howitzers. But he got it into his little head that he could come here and demolish Harold Ryan with words. The truth! Correct?
WOODLY: What an hallucination! Oh, dear, dear, dear, dear. Oh dearie me.
HAROLD: What an hallucination! Oh, dear, dear, dear, dear. Oh dearie me.
WOODLY: You haven't heard me yet.
HAROLD: You intend to crack my eardrums with your voice? Will I bleed from my every orifice? Who will clean up this awful mess?
WOODLY: We'll find out now, won't we?
PENELOPE: No, we won't. No matter how it begins, it will end in death. Because it always does. Isn't that always how it ends, Haroldin death?
HAROLD: There has to be a threat of some sort, nobility of some sort, glamour of some sort, sport of some sort. These elements are lacking.
WOODLY: You're a filthy, rotten bastard.
HAROLD: ( pretending to be wounded ) Oooooo. That hurt.
WOODLY: You're oldso old.
HAROLD: Now who's being cruel?
WOODLY: A living fossil! Like the cockroaches and the horseshoe crabs.
HAROLD: We do survive, don't we? You're going to have to apologize, of course, for calling me a bastard. That's a matter of formnot allowing you or anybody to call me a bastard. No rush about that. Just remember to apologize sometime
WOODLY: You're a son of a bitch.
HAROLD: Yeswelluhthat's another one of those statements which more or less automatically requires an apology. Whenever you feel like it. It's sort of like turning off an alarm clock that's ringing loudly. Your apology turns off the alarm.
PENELOPE: ( leveling the gun ) I'm turning off the alarm. I'm turning off everything.
HAROLD: Ah! The lady is armed.
PENELOPE: I want you to get out of here, Norbert. HaroldI want you to sit down in the chair, and not lift a finger until Norbert is gone.
HAROLD: ( to WOODLY ) Whoever has the gun, you see, gets to tell everybody else exactly what to do. It's the American way.
PENELOPE: I mean it!
HAROLD: Then you'd better fix your bayonet, because there aren't any bullets in the gun.
PENELOPE: ( to PAUL ) Where's the bullet?
HAROLD: Help your mother find the bullet.
PENELOPE: ( to PAUL, pointing to the floor ) There it is. Give it to me.
PENELOPE: How do I load?
HAROLD: ( to PAUL ) Load it for her.
HAROLD: Cock it, too.
HAROLD: Give it to her.
PENELOPE: All right! Am I exceedingly dangerous now?
HAROLD: The National Safety Council would be appalled.
PENELOPE: Then listen to me. You're both disgustingwith your pride, your pride. I hate you for coming herelike a federal marshal in a western film. I loved you when you stayed away. But here you are nowhigh noon in the Superbowl! You fool, you fool.
WOODLY: Everything's going to be beautiful.
PENELOPE: You fake! You're no better than the dumbest general in the Pentagon. You're not going to beat Harold. You're not going to beat anybody. You're not going to stay here, eitheryammering and taunting until you're most gloriously killed. Go home!
HAROLD: She's right, Norbertgo home.
WOODLY: I haven't said all I have to say.
PENELOPE: I haven't told you, Harold, how comical I think you are.
WOODLY: I haven't told you, Harold, how comical I think you are.
HAROLD: ( hit squarely, absolutely unable to forgive ) ( to HAROLD ) Sit down or I'll shoot!
PENELOPE: ( to HAROLD ) Sit down or I'll shoot!
HAROLD: Give me that Goddamn thing! Now get out of here, or I might kill you. Who knows?
PENELOPE: ( terrified ) You've killed women?
HAROLD: Seventeen of themeleven by accident. March! Move! You, too!
PENELOPE: Norbertyou come, too. Let him go, Harold. Let him go.
HAROLD: Of course he can goif he'll just go down on his hands and knees for a momentand promise me that he does not find me comical in the least degree.
PENELOPE: Do it, Norbert.
WOODLY: Hands and knees, you say?
HAROLD: And terror, if you don't mind.
PENELOPE: Do it!
WOODLY: ( to PENELOPE, simply, decisively, unafraid ) ( before she can protest any more ) Goodbye! Goodbye!
HAROLD: ( before she can protest any more ) Goodbye! Goodbye!
HAROLD: Get the police! No time to lose!
HAROLD: You're in one hell of a jam. You realize that?
WOODLY: I'm high as a kite.
HAROLD: Glands. You're supposed to be happy when you die. Call me comical again.
WOODLY: You're a clown. You're a clown who killsbut you're a clown.
HAROLD: I love you! Have a cigar!
WOODLY: ( ignoring the cigar ) Evolution has made you a clown with a cigar. Simple butchers like you are obsolete!
HAROLD: I'm to be left behindin primordial If you're at home in the ooze, and nowhere else.
WOODLY: If you're at home in the ooze, and nowhere else.
HAROLD: This is going to become very physical. Are you prepared for that?
WOODLY: You're not such a creature of the ooze that you'd hurt an unarmed man.
HAROLD: I'm an honorable clown?
WOODLY: King Arthur.
HAROLD: You hope.
WOODLY: In any event, I will not beg for No quarter asked. No quarter given.
HAROLD: No quarter asked. No quarter given.
WOODLY: Don't you laugh even inwardly at the heroic balderdash you spew?
HAROLD: ( offering sword ) Cut me open. Find out.
WOODLY: I've struck my blow.
HAROLD: With spittle?
WOODLY: I've poisoned you.
HAROLD: ( pointing at WOODLY in horror ) Lucretia Borgia? ( looking around frantically ) Something I drank or touched? ( understanding ) You refused a cigar. That's it! Potassium cyanide in the humidor! Treacherous lover of peace!
WOODLY: I put a poisoned thought in your head. Even now that poison is seeping into every lobe of your mind. It's saying, "Obsolete, obsolete, obsolete," and, "Clown, clown, clown."
HAROLD: You have a very good mind, or I wouldn't have come back. That mind is now asking itself, cleverly and fairly, "Is Harold Ryan really a clown?" And the answer is, "Yes."
WOODLY: You have a very good mind, or I wouldn't have come back. That mind is now asking itself, cleverly and fairly, "Is Harold Ryan really a clown?" And the answer is, "Yes."
HAROLD: ( touching his forehead experimentally ) II really must congratulate you. Something is happening in there.
WOODLY: You can never take yourself seriously again! Look at all the creatures you've protected us from! Did you shoot them on the elevator, as they were on their way up here to eat us alive?
HAROLD: ( blankly, as though in a dream ) The magic root you gave meI had it analyzed. It was discovered by a Harvard botanist in 1893! He explored your famous jungle for five years, armed with nothing but kindness, a talent for languages, and a pocketknife.
WOODLY: The magic root you gave meI had it analyzed. It was discovered by a Harvard botanist in 1893! He explored your famous jungle for five years, armed with nothing but kindness, a talent for languages, and a pocketknife.
HAROLD: ( blankly ) I see.
WOODLY: You aren't going to hurt me. You aren't going to hurt anybody any more. Any violent gesture will seem ridiculousto yourself!
HAROLD: ( quietly ) Don Quixote.
WOODLY: My violin is avenged!
HAROLD: Something seems to have happened to my self-respect.
WOODLY: And the hell with it. It was so tragically irrelevant, so preposterously misinformed.
HAROLD: The new hero is you.
WOODLY: I hate crowds, and I have no You're too modest.
HAROLD: You're too modest.
WOODLY: But the new hero will be a man of science and of peacelike me. He'll disarm you, of course. No more guns, no more guns.
HAROLD: Was I ever of use?
WOODLY: Never. For when you began to kill for the fun of it, you became the chief source of agony of mankind.
HAROLD: Here. Finish the job.
WOODLY: I'm utterly satisfied.
HAROLD: You're making a mistake. Obsolete old carnivores like me are most dangerous when wounded. You've wounded me.
WOODLY: More clowning! Don't you see?
HAROLD: We never quit fighting until we're You'd be killing a friend. Don't you know how much I like you?
WOODLY: You'd be killing a friend. Don't you know how much I like you?
HAROLD: I'm going to shoot you now.
WOODLY: My self-respect is goneand my soldier's honor with it. It is now very easy for me to shoot an unarmed man.
HAROLD: My self-respect is goneand my soldier's honor with it. It is now very easy for me to shoot an unarmed man.
WOODLY: New dignity can be yoursas a merciful man. You can change!
HAROLD: Like the saber-toothed tiger.
WOODLY: ( sickened ) Oh Godyou're really going to kill It won't hurt as much as the sting of a bumblebee. Heaven is very much like Paradise, they say. You'll like it there.
HAROLD: It won't hurt as much as the sting of a bumblebee. Heaven is very much like Paradise, they say. You'll like it there.
WOODLY: Can I beg for mercyon my knees?
HAROLD: If you want to be found that way.
WOODLY: What is this thing that kills me?
HAROLD: Man, as man was meant to bea vengeful ape who murders. He will soon be extinct. It's time, it's Don't shoot.
WOODLY: Don't shoot.
HAROLD: I've enjoyed being man.
WOODLY: ( goes down on his knees ) Get up.
HAROLD: Get up.
WOODLY: Have it your way. We'd both be better off dead now. Can't do it.
HAROLD: Have it your way. We'd both be better off dead now. Can't do it.
HAROLD: Can't do it.
WOODLY: Thank God.
HAROLD: Crawl home.
WOODLY: Thank youfor my life.
HAROLD: It's trash now, like mine.
WOODLY: New lives begin!
HAROLD: Somewhere in this city. Not here, not here. Tell Penelope I loved herin my clownish way. And Paul. Tell him to be a healer, by all means.
WOODLY: What are you going to do?
HAROLD: Use the sanitary facilities, if I may.
WOODLY: Leave the rifle here.
HAROLD: I'll put it in Paul's room, where it belongs.
WOODLY: Give me your word of honor that that's all you're going to do.
HAROLD: For what it's worth now, Harold Ryan, the clown, gives his sacred
WOODLY: VON KONIGSWALD, MILDRED, and WANDA JUNE enter from the side stealthily. VON KONIGSWALD, pantomimes that his companions are to be quiet and to listen for something wonderful. All ghosts cup their hands to their ears.
WOODLY: There is a shot offstage. VON KONIGSWALD is delighted. MILDRED is sickened. WANDA JUNE is dazed. WOODLY collapses in grief. HAROLD enters from the corridor, shaking his head.
HAROLD: I missed.
HAROLD: The end.
