"HARD RAIN": Screenplay by
SHOOTING DRAFT: FADE IN Falls from low grey clouds. Down below we see.
FADE IN: Falls from low grey clouds. Down below we see.
RAIN: Falls from low grey clouds. Down below we see.
THE RIVER: Muddy, slow and powerful, overflowing its banks. In the near distance is.
THE RESERVOIR: Filled to the maximum, water thundering out of two open gates. We close in on.
THE DAM: There's a Dam Control Office in the middle of the dam. We MOVE OFF the reservoir and head out over.
A CHURCH: Beautiful, old, ringed with a five-foot-high wall of sandbags. The floodwater is up to the first level of sandbags.
A STATUE: On an island in the middle of the street. It's Civil War- era, of a general on a horse, sword held high. The floodwater is over the curb, lapping at the base of statue's pedestal. Near the statue stands.
THE SHERIFF: 50s, with soft edges and friendly eyes. He's talking into his radio mike.
SHERIFF: So, are we all going to die?
HANK: Not right now. But I'm gonna have to let out a little more.
PHIL: I think my best was when I turned twelve. My Dad set up a treasure hunt. It was really cool. Well, it was.
WAYNE: This blows.
PHIL: My most awful birthday was sweet sixteen. I had mono. How about you? What was your worst?
WAYNE: You kidding? You think I could've possibly had a birthday worse than this? What kind of loser do you think I am?
SHERIFF: Hank says he's gonna open another gate. We're gonna get another rise.
MAYOR: Gentlemen. Hey happy birthday,
MAYOR: ( to the Sheriff ) Mike, I gotta say, what you're doing. I don't know if I'd be here, ( good-natured ) Well, you would be if you wanted to get the last couple of paychecks some bastard owed you.
SHERIFF: ( good-natured ) Well, you would be if you wanted to get the last couple of paychecks some bastard owed you.
MAYOR: ( grins, then: ) I just want you to know I think the people 'round here made a big mistake.
PHIL: "The people"? You're the one who screwed him.
MAYOR: Sorry, Phil?
PHIL: ( blushes ) I, uh
SHERIFF: ( to Mayor, saving Phil ) You know, Bob, as much as I'd love to stand here all day talking about how great I am, if you don't get moving I'm gonna have to haul your sorry ass off to jail.
MAYOR: ( laughs ) Okay, okay, I'm going. Keep up the good work, boys. It's appreciated.
WAYNE: Whaddya say we go torch the fucker's house and blame it on looters. Or how about we put a dead cow in his living room. He comes back after it's been in the water a couple of days. Hello!
SHERIFF: ( shakes head ) You wanna know how to get the best revenge on the Mayor and his boys? You do exactly what we're doing. You protect the town. You protect it better than they would. Better than they ever could.
WAYNE: ( thinks, shrugs ) I think the dead cow's better.
SHERIFF: ( ignores Wayne ) Any looter that comes in here is in for a big surprise, cause as long as I'm still wearing this pointy thing. ( indicates badge ) .nobody's taking anything from this town.
WELLMAN: I I'm going as fast as I can.
A SHOTGUN: Is held by one of the men, pointed at the floor.
WELLMAN: Sweeps the money off the shelves and into the bags.
WELLMAN: Yes. We don't keep any of our
WELLMAN: Runs up, stopping in the open door.
WELLMAN: Hey, wait!
CHARLIE: Excuse me?
WELLMAN: Looks nervous for a second, then holds up a clipboard.
WELLMAN: You forgot to sign.
CHARLIE: Charlie reaches out for the money bags. Tom jumps off the sandbag wall and lands in the water, splashing Charlie.
CHARLIE: For Christsakes!
TOM: It's a flood, Charlie. You're gonna get wet.
CHARLIE: Hey! Do you know what kind of crap is in that water?
TOM: ( of course he knows ) Well, yeah.
CHARLIE: Dispatch, this is 31.
CHARLIE: We're leaving Huntingburg. We'll be back in an hour.
CHARLIE: We're gone. Over and out.
CHARLIE: Your ear.
TOM: Your ear.
CHARLIE: What about my ear?
TOM: You've got a major hair growth going Shut up.
CHARLIE: Shut up.
TOM: I'm serious. You're gonna need somebody to go in there with a weed
CHARLIE: You're offering me one of your donuts? I don't know what to say. I'm getting all misty.
TOM: You're offering me one of your donuts? I don't know what to say. I'm getting all misty.
CHARLIE: If it'll shut your mouth you can have the whole bag.
TOM: Nah. I start eating donuts and I'll never get out of this truck.
CHARLIE: ( disgusted ) I love how you think you're better than this.
TOM: Don't get me wrong, Charlie. There's a lot to like about this job and I don't just mean the dashing polyester ensemble and the solid three-figure income.
CHARLIE: ( angry ) You ungrateful shit! I don't believe ( surprised ) Charlie, relax! I was kidding!
TOM: ( surprised ) Charlie, relax! I was kidding!
CHARLIE: You don't wanna do this? Fine. Go back to selling hot construction machinery. That's a helluva career.
TOM: It had better hours.
CHARLIE: You think this is a joke? This is funny? Jesus Christ! You know how lucky you are you could get in here? Thirty years old and all the crap you pulled and you never got caught?
TOM: ( angry ) That wasn't luck, old man. That was skill. I was good at it.
CHARLIE: Oh, yeah, it takes a lot of skill to fence bulldozers. That's goddamn genius time.
TOM: About as much skill as it takes to sit in a truck and get fat eating Oh, so that's all I've been doing, huh? Just wasting my life away.
CHARLIE: Oh, so that's all I've been doing, huh? Just wasting my life away.
TOM: I didn't say that.
CHARLIE: Yeah, building a home, raising a family that's just stupid.
TOM: I didn't say that!
CHARLIE: You know what, Tom? I really don't give a shit what you said.
JIM: Late 50s, with a creased face and piercing eyes. He's sitting at the bar, drinking coffee. Rain sheets down outside. The BARTENDER watches TV, sound off. Next to Jim at the bar are.
ON TV: Sound off, a MAN is crying about what he has lost in the Ray takes a drink. Kenny leans over to Ray, sotto.
RAY: "Thus saith the Lord; Behold, waters shall rise up out of the north and be an overflowing flood and all the inhabitants of the land shall howl." Jeremiah 47:2.
KENNY: You're gonna be able to buy a helluva lot of bibles, huh, Ray? Me? First thing I'm gonna do is get my brother a lawyer. Best that money can buy.
RAY: What's he facing?
KENNY: Thirty in.
RAY: He cap a cop or something.?
KENNY: Security guard. "In the commission." All he's got is a piece of shit P.D. Now I'm gonna be able to afford him a good lawyer a guy with a haircut.
JIM: 'Scuse me a second. Take a look at thirty-one across.
KENNY: Shit, Jim. I don't do crossword I'll take a look, Jim.
MR. MEHLOR: I'll take a look, Jim.
JIM: Kenny can read. Just look at it. You know when you write down a word and suddenly it looks all wrong? Maybe it's right, but it doesn't look right?
JIM: Thirty-one across.
KENNY: ( mumbles as he reads ) Mention money again and.
JIM: Did I get it right?
KENNY: Yeah, Jim. You got it right.
TOM: A hint of a smile on both of them. Tom reaches for Charlie.
CHARLIE: A hint of a smile on both of them. Tom reaches for Charlie.
TOM: Give us a kiss. Come on.
CHARLIE: Get out of here.
TOM: ( laughs, beat ) You really are a cranky old fart, you know that?
CHARLIE: I'm sorry.
TOM: What was that about? I mean, I'm just sitting here and all of a sudden you go postal on me.
CHARLIE: I don't know, I. It's just this weather. I. I want to get back.
TOM: You know, I really do appreciate what you've done for me. This is a good job.
CHARLIE: No, it's not. It stinks. It's putting your life on the line for someone else's money.
TOM: Jesus. Where's the road?
THEIR POV: Stretching out ahead of them are reflector bars on the telephone poles, a few feet above the rippling surface of the floodwater.
CHARLIE: It's there. Somewhere. I hope. Look, Tom, I don't care what it is you end up doing.
TOM: Oh, God, here we go again.
CHARLIE: This is the last time, I swear.
HIS POV: The reflector bar on the pole two poles ahead is lower than the others. No reflector bars for a hundred yards, then they Tom figures out what's going on with the reflector bars.
CHARLIE: ( looks at Tom ) I just think, whatever it is you do, it's time you did some heavy lifting.
TOM: No, you gotta hear this. You're better Stop the truck! We're going down!
CHARLIE: No, you gotta hear this. You're better Stop the truck! We're going down!
TOM: Stop the truck! We're going down!
CHARLIE: Charlie stands on the brakes.
THEIR POV: A wave of water rushes forward from the truck, then comes back and washes over the hood, splashing up on the windshield.
TOM: Back up! HOME OF THE 1987 STATE CHAMPION WARRIORS. It's a little dip in the road or something. You can see the reflectors come up the other side.
CHARLIE: It's a little dip in the road or something. You can see the reflectors come up the other side.
TOM: It's a little dip in the road or something. You can see the reflectors come up the other side.
CHARLIE: ( curses to himself ) I knew this would happen. ( grabs radio mike )
TOM: I'll see if there's anyone coming. Maybe we can get pulled out.
CHARLIE: Dispatch, this is 31. 31 calling 31, this is dispatch.
CHARLIE: ( into radio ) Dispatch, we're stuck outside of Huntingburg. Truck's dead.
CHARLIE: We're on 231, headed for the Interstate. Right by a sign saying "Welcome to Huntingburg."
TOM: The town's been evacuated. We won't get any help from there.
CHARLIE: Dispatch can't get anyone out.
TOM: They are aware we're carrying a shitload of money.?
CHARLIE: They called the National Guard. They're gonna be here in about ninety Ninety minutes? Jesus.
TOM: Ninety minutes? Jesus.
CHARLIE: ( nods; into radio ) Dispatch, we're gonna need help a little sooner than
TOM: Oh, shit.
SHERIFF: ( into mike ) Henry, I saw you. Come on out.
SHERIFF: Henry, I'm not leaving until you come out.
DOREEN: Jesus H. Christ, Henry, I told you to stay away from the damn window.
THE SHERIFF: Gets out of the car.
SHERIFF: What are you still doing here?
HENRY: We're just
DOREEN: We're setting traps.
SHERIFF: That's illegal, Doreen.
DOREEN: You gonna arrest us, Sheriff? Hell, are you even sheriff anymore, Sheriff? Didn't you lose an election? I sure as hell know I didn't vote for you, and neither did Henry.
HENRY: You don't need to set traps.
SHERIFF: You don't need to set traps.
DOREEN: That's what they said in '73. When we got back, anything the bastards didn't steal they broke, just for the hell of it.
SHERIFF: That's not happening this time.
DOREEN: Damn right it's not.
SHERIFF: You can't stay, you know that.
HENRY: We're going to my sister's.
SHERIFF: Soon as we finish setting the traps.
DOREEN: Soon as we finish setting the traps.
SHERIFF: God'll understand if you have to drown her in the basement, Henry.
CHARLIE: We gotta get out of here.
TOM: What about the money?
CHARLIE: The money's safe; we're not. Water rose about a foot in the last twenty minutes. The National Guard isn't going to be here for another hour. You do the math.
THE SUBURBAN: Stops on the far side of the dip a hundred yards away. The headlights shine across the water. Doors open and MEN get out.
CHARLIE: MAN'S VOICE
MAN'S VOICE: You okay? You stuck?
CHARLIE: MAN'S VOICE
MAN'S VOICE: We'll see if we can get you out! We'll be right over!
CHARLIE: Looks like we might just
THE SUBURBAN: Headlights go on high beam.
TOM: Why'd they do that?
CHARLIE: Probably so they can see better.
TOM: Or so we can't see at all.
JIM: This is my retirement fund, boys, and if any one of you screws up, I swear to God I'll kill you. Let's
CHARLIE: Company dispatch and the National Guard are the only ones who know we're here.
TOM: Anyone with a scanner from Radio Shack could've intercepted your call, Could you turn down your lights?!
CHARLIE: ( realizes ) ( to Jim and men ) Could you turn down your lights?!
TOM: ( to Jim and men ) Could you turn down your lights?!
JIM: We're bringing a rope!
TOM: Turn down your lights!
JIM: We'll be right there!
KENNY: is fired up on adrenalin. He has his rifle up and is aiming HIS POV Tom with his hand on his pistol, starting to pull it out.
HIS POV: Tom with his hand on his pistol, starting to pull it out.
CHARLIE: Take it easy, Tom.
KENNY: KENNY'S FINGER Squeezes the trigger of his rifle.
KENNY'S FINGER: Squeezes the trigger of his rifle.
TOM: Jumps at the sound of the rifle crack.
CHARLIE: Is knocked back.
TOM: Yanks out his gun and starts shooting back.
TOM: Shooting blindly, looks over and sees.
CHARLIE: A horrible look on his face, blood coming out of his neck. He sinks into the water.
KENNY: Shoots off another few quick rounds.
TOM: Drops into the water, bullets plugging in around him. Just his hand and pistol are visible, shooting blindly back toward Jim and his men. THE SUBURBAN Is hit by Tom's fire.
TOM: Runs out of bullets. A beat later we see Charlie start moving through the water Tom is pulling him.
JIM: STOP SHOOTING!
STOP SHOOTING!: Doesn't hear Jim and keeps firing.
KENNY: Doesn't hear Jim and keeps firing.
JIM: Aims his pistol at Kenny's head.
JIM: Kenny stops.
CHARLIE: I'm sorry, Tom.
KENNY: He was going for his gun!
JIM: He wasn't gonna shoot, Kenny. We just want the money! Get away and we won't have to kill you!
TOM: Shuts his eyes, thinking, scared.
CHARLIE: Floating in the water.
TOM: What the hell is he going to do?
JIM: You got thirty seconds to get the hell away!
JIM: The clock's running! Go!
THEIR POV: All they can see is the front of the truck, in the light of the "Welcome" sign. They can't see the back.
JIM: Gets to the truck and moves along its side, Kenny right behind him. Jim gets to the back of the truck, nods for Kenny to cover him, then steps out behind the truck, gun up.
JIM'S POV: Tom is gone.
CHARLIE: Is floating in the water, eyes of glass.
JIM: ( eyes Charlie ) Ah, Jesus. ( to Kenny ) Your dad'd be real proud of you, He was going for his gun!
KENNY: He was going for his gun!
JIM: Mr. Mehlor, I believe we're gonna need your science project.
RAY: "I shall bring floodwaters upon the earth to destroy all that lives under the heavens and every creature that has the breath of life in it shall perish." Genesis 6:17.
KENNY: Were you a preacher or something?
MR. MEHLOR: Ray did five years in the hole at Joliet. The only thing you get to read in the hole is the Bible.
KENNY: ( to Ray ) You got religion?
RAY: Mr. Mehlor laughs as he pulls something out of his pack. SMALL EXPLOSIVE DEVICE A half-stick of dynamite with a timer, mounted on a magnet.
MR. MEHLOR: When you hit the switch you've got thirty seconds.
RAY: You teach your students how to make things like that?
MR. MEHLOR: You been to a high school recently, Ray? My students taught me how to make things like that. Ready?
JIM: Hold on.
JIM: Shut up. Everyone.
RAY: Now why'd he have to go and do a thing like that?
JIM: To stay alive. He thinks we'll kill him unless he knows where the money is and we There is another possibility. He's thinking of keeping it for There's always that. Either way, we got ourselves a sharp one.
MR. MEHLOR: There is another possibility. He's thinking of keeping it for There's always that. Either way, we got ourselves a sharp one.
JIM: There's always that. Either way, we got ourselves a sharp one.
KENNY: What do we do?
JIM: Pretty soon the water'll be too deep for him to run. But for us it'll be just deep enough.
KENNY: ( unclear ) Deep enough for what?
JIM: Here we go.
KENNY: ( re: cruiser ) What about this monster?
JIM: ( re: ski-boat ) This is all we need.
RAY: Shit, Jim, we're stealing. Can't we take anything we want?
JIM: The water isn't very deep yet. We need something with a low draft. Mr. Mehlor find us some gasoline.
KENNY: Sees something else he likes. We don't see what it is.
KENNY: Oh, Jim.?
LIGHTS: Racing toward him over the water, a hundred and fifty yards Sprints off.
TOM: Sprints off.
THEIR POV: No sign of Tom.
JIM: Cut your engines!
WINDOWS: There's a hole in a window large enough to climb through.
JIM: Let's get him out. But for Godsake, whatever you do. .don't kill him. Not until we find out where he hid that money.
JIM: Mr. Mehlor?
MR. MEHLOR: Reaches into his pack.
A FIREBALL: Shoots over him.
UNDERWATER: Tom is swimming as hard as he can, out of breath. KENNY AND
RAY: Ray goes off down a hall while Kenny idles in the lobby.
TOM: Surfaces, gasping.
KENNY: Hears the gasp, turns, grinning.
KENNY: Enemy sub off the port bow!
TOM: Gets to his feet runs as fast as he can down the hall. He rounds a corner and keeps going.
KENNY: Guns his engine and takes off after Tom.
TOM: Runs another thirty feet, then trips on something and goes Comes around the corner, grinning when he sees.
KENNY: Comes around the corner, grinning when he sees.
TOM: Halfway down the hall, standing frozen, caught in Kenny's Guns it, racing forward down the hall toward Tom.
KENNY: Guns it, racing forward down the hall toward Tom.
KENNY: Full steam ahead!
KENNY: Keeps going. He flies through the air, slams headfirst into a trophy case and drops into the water.
TOM: Stands up he was kneeling.
TOM: Low tide, sailor.
A HANDRAIL: On the wall, angles down into the water. Underwater there are a couple of steps leading up to a change in level in the hall that's what the jet-ski grounded on.
HALLWAY: Ray motors down the hallway toward the corner.
RAY: HIS POV Around the corner comes a jet-ski. Ray assumes it's Kenny.
HIS POV: Around the corner comes a jet-ski. Ray assumes it's Kenny.
RAY: See him?
TOM: Wearing Kenny's hat and jacket.
RAY: Gives chase.
SCHOOL HALLWAYS: Ray races after Tom along the flooded hallways, taking the turns fast. Ray pulls a gun, starts shooting.
TOM'S POV: Tearing through the halls, flashlight lighting the way. Bullets hit the walls, ceiling, water around him.
TOM: Comes around a corner, sees the open front doors ahead of JIM AND MR. MEHLOR Come into view in the ski-boat, blocking the exit.
TOM: Turns hard and speeds down a side hall.
TOM'S POV: A wall of windows at the end. No way out. Trapped. Then.
KENNY: Rises out of the water, blood running down his face, pistol Looks back.
TOM: Looks back.
RAY: Is on his tail.
TOM: Makes his choice and guns the jet-ski straight at Kenny.
TOM: Fires, misses and is knocked to the side as.
KENNY: Fires, misses and is knocked to the side as.
TOM: Hunches down on the jet-ski and crashes through the windows.
KENNY: ( laughing ) Nice driving, buttwipe!
RAY: I'm glad you're enjoying this, Kenny, but if he's dead, how do we find the
JIM: Oh, he's still alive.
JIM: Ray, I'm in need of a little "With a raging flood he makes an end of those who oppose him, and pursues his enemies into darkness." From one of the more obscure
RAY: "With a raging flood he makes an end of those who oppose him, and pursues his enemies into darkness." From one of the more obscure
KENNY: Sorry to interrupt Bible study and all, but has no one but me noticed how completely screwed we are? We should be back in the motel room, counting out the money. Instead
JIM: No one likes this particular turn of events, Kenny, but we have a choice we can can either deal with it or we can walk away. There's a lot of money out there, so I choose to deal with it. If you want to go, that's fine start swimming. You want to stay, that's fine, too just stop your damn whining.
KENNY: What the hell's his problem? All the money in the world ain't worth a goddamn nickel if you get caught. It's not like there won't be other You may have more of these in you, Kenny, but Jim doesn't.
RAY: You may have more of these in you, Kenny, but Jim doesn't.
REVERSE ANGLE: Looking out over the top of the sandbag wall. A tree floats by on the water.
HANDS: Suddenly appear on the top of the wall and.
TOM: Pulls himself into view. He climbs over the wall, exhausted.
TOM: He hurries up the back steps and goes into the church.
BIRDS: Fluttering up in the rafters.
TOM: Takes a breath. Just as he relaxes, he hears a whooshing sound from behind him and turns to see.
KAREN: 30, pretty, even in head-to-toe rain gear.
KAREN: I was setting up pumps.
WAYNE: I sure as hell don't get what you see in that church.
KAREN: I wouldn't expect you to, Wayne.
WAYNE: What's that supposed to mean?
SHERIFF: Karen, did you think the order was for everyone but you to evacuate?
KAREN: I was gonna go as soon as I filled the pumps, but the next thing I know, I've got a looter on my hands. Now, maybe I'm crazy, but I was expecting a little gratitude?
PHIL: I think it's great what you did.
WAYNE: That's it, Phil. That'll finally get you into her pants.
PHIL: Shut up.
SHERIFF: What if he'd had a gun, Karen? A lot of these looters carry guns.
TOM: Sits up on a cot, behind bars in the holding cell, woozy.
RAY: Jim, it could be anywhere. It might not even be in the school.
JIM: Keep looking.
THE STATUE: The water is up to the horse's knees. The lightning passes and a second later thunder rolls.
WAYNE: What were you doing at the church?
KAREN: I told you he was looting it.
TOM: I just said I'm not a looter! You're the one who nailed me? You got a better arm than my ex-wife. What the hell did you hit me with a statue? I saw a flash of some guy coming at me.
KAREN: ( mumbles, embarrassed ) It was a crucifix. ( to others ) It was the only thing there!
TOM: Oh, great. Now I'm gonna have people coming from around the world to see the face of Jesus on my forehead.
SHERIFF: Look, son, what were you doing in the church?
TOM: Looking for a place to hide out.
WAYNE: From who Swamp Thing?
TOM: The bastards who killed my partner.
TOM: We were driving an armored truck. The truck got stuck out past the high school. They must've picked up our call to dispatch, 'cause they knew where we were. Charlie and I were just standing there and all hell broke loose.
SHERIFF: How much money did you have?
TOM: A little over three million.
TOM: The bank was afraid of looters. They had us cleaning out their branches up and down the river.
WAYNE: They stole three million dollars?
SHERIFF: No, I don't think so.
SHERIFF: You took the money, didn't you.
TOM: I hid it in the cemetery. Tied it to a crypt for a guy named Portman.
WAYNE: What the hell'd you do that for?
TOM: I don't like to carry around that much cash.
SHERIFF: Jesus, Wayne, use your head. If he hadn't hidden it, they woulda killed him, too.
SHERIFF: You got any ID?
TOM: No, it was in my jacket and I
WAYNE: Color me surprised.
SHERIFF: Get out two rifles and a shotgun.
WAYNE: You believe him?
SHERIFF: Well, yes, Wayne, I do. And even if I didn't, I'd say we sure as hell had an obligation to check it out, don't you think?
TOM: I'll go with you. I can show you No, I think you better stay put. But that was
SHERIFF: No, I think you better stay put. But that was
WAYNE: Yeah, all we need is an armored car guy helping us out.
WAYNE: Wayne, what's the worst that's ever happened to you? When old Mrs. Dugan went after you with a knife? This guy just got shot at! Smart move with the money.
SHERIFF: Wayne, what's the worst that's ever happened to you? When old Mrs. Dugan went after you with a knife? This guy just got shot at! Smart move with the money.
SHERIFF: ( to Phil ) Wayne and I'll check out the cemetery. You escort Slugger. ( nods at Karen ) .out of town. Get her to some high ground, then come on back.
KAREN: I have to fill the pumps
SHERIFF: ( pulling her out ) Not any more you don't.
SHERIFF: He could still be lying! Sheriff they killed my partner without any warning.
WAYNE: He could still be lying! Sheriff they killed my partner without any warning.
TOM: Sheriff they killed my partner without any warning.
SHERIFF: And they're gonna regret that, I guarantee you. They're gonna regret coming anywhere near this town tonight. And out he goes.
SHERIFF: Phil, take Karen's boat.
WAYNE: You can do it, Phil. The men of Huntingburg are counting on you.
PHIL: Just bite me.
HANK: Holy shit!
HANK: Sheriff! Sheriff!
HANK: ( on the radio ) Sheriff, come in!
KAREN: ( pleading ) Did you see the stained glass windows, Phil? Did you see what a good job they did? I can't let anything happen to the church, not after all I've put into it.
PHIL: Karen, you know I'd do anything for you, but the Sheriff told me to get you out of town. I'm sorry. It's for your own good.
PHIL: What're you doing?
KAREN: If you're not going to take me back to the church, then I'll swim.
PHIL: No. Hey, hold on.
KAREN: What am I saying?
KAREN: This is my boat. You swim.
RAY: The water hits him hard, knocking him off the jet-ski. He's swept away by the water.
RAY: Slammed up against the fence, pinned to it, water rushing over and around and by him. He yells as the wire cuts into EXT. CHURCH Karen is pouring gasoline into the pumps. She hears the rushing and looks up as the surge hits. Water shoots over the top.
THE WINDOWS: Are heaving as the water rises up against them.
TOM: Gets to his feet, woozy and goes to get out of the cell. He remembers uh-oh: the cell door is locked.
KAREN: They'll get him out.
SHERIFF: Wayne. You locked him in.
THE DESK: Bobbing in the rising water. He misses the keys.
HIS FINGERS: Touch the top of the desk, start pulling it toward him, and he just gets a firm grip on the desk when.
THE DESK: Is moved by the rush of water, but not before Tom grabs.
THE KEYS: And grips them tight.
TOM: Tries the keys in the lock. They don't fit. He looks at them.
CU KEYS: The tag is emblazoned with the Ford logo.
TOM: Great! I can drive out of here!
TOM: Climbs up the cell bars, the water rising with him. He's running out of room between himself and the ceiling. Three feet. Two feet. He's being pushed up by the water toward.
TOM: Is terrified, about to die. The water rises up past his face.
TOM'S HANDS: Pull his Maglite flashlight from his belt. He takes off the lens and the battery cap, then shakes the batteries out.
TOM: Sticks the flashlight tube up through the wire grate over the light fixture. He blows out the water like clearing a snorkel then breathes. Reprieve for a few moments and then.
THE WATER: Reaches the top of the flashlight tube and starts to trickle in when.
TOM: Looks up, astonished, to see.
A FIGURE: Standing on the roof. The figure leans down and starts tugging at the wire cage over the inside of the fixture. In the light, Tom sees that it's.
KAREN: And she's pulling as hard as she can, but the wire cage isn't budging. She pulls out a Swiss Army knife, unfolds a small knife and starts taking out the screws holding the cage in place. She gets two screws out.
TOM: Pulls on the cage and it swings down. He climbs up it.
TOM: Thank you.
KAREN: I owed you for hitting you and all. But we're even now, okay?
TOM: ( beat, looks around ) What happened?
KAREN: I don't know.
KAREN: Maybe another levee broke upriver. They've been
TOM: Oh, God.
DARKNESS: As the lightning passes, and in the darkness, the thunder JIM AND HIS MEN Switch on their lights and move forward. They pass.
CARS: Floating down the street with other debris. The cars have been damaged by the flood one is missing a door.
THEIR POV: Tom and Karen have disappeared. Karen's boat is still moored to the Sheriff's station roof, empty.
JIM: They're in the water! Kenny, cut your engine!
UNDERWATER: Tom motions Karen to follow him. She's freaked and hesitates. Tom grabs her hand and pulls her.
THEIR POV: The ski-boat and jet-ski are right above them, flashlights playing over the water.
JIM: Kenny, go that way. We'll go down
KAREN: Tell them where the money is.
TOM: I can't.
KAREN: Well, I can.
TOM: If they know where the money is, they will kill us.
JIM: Watches as his flashlight beam washes over the car. Nothing there. He guns his engine and heads off down the street.
THE CAR: Floats off around a corner.
KAREN: So what do we do?
TOM: I guess just drive around until we run out of gas.
KAREN: ( pissed ) Look, I've spent the last eight months of my life restoring that church, and I just left it to come save your ass, so spare me, okay?
TOM: ( beat ) When we get down here a little further we'll find a place for you to hide. ( off her look ) I'm gonna get back to the truck and wait for the National Guard. ( checks watch ) They should be there pretty soon.
TOM: No, I'm fine. The heater just kicked
KAREN: No, I'm fine. The heater just kicked
PHIL: No. Someone got him out.
SHERIFF: ( hesitates ) Maybe Karen.
PHIL: ( hesitates ) Maybe Karen.
WAYNE: Karen? How could she get him out? You took her out of town.
PHIL: I It
SHERIFF: Let's hear it, Phil.
PHIL: It happened real fast, okay?
KAREN: You ever been robbed before?
TOM: No. The scariest thing that ever happened before was Charlie running out of donuts. I've only been doing this for a couple
KAREN: ( not what she wanted to hear )
KAREN: What'd you do before this?
TOM: I, uh. I sold construction I was making good money, it just. I don't know. It just didn't seem right for me anymore.
KAREN: How'd you end up in this?
TOM: My uncle did me a favor; got me in.
KAREN: Nice favor. How's he gonna feel after My uncle was Charlie my partner in the truck.
TOM: My uncle was Charlie my partner in the truck.
KAREN: Oh, God. I'm sorry.
WAYNE: She know karate or something, Phil? Maybe kung fu? I mean, I can't see how else she could overpower the likes of you.
PHIL: Shut up, Wayne.
SHERIFF: Shut up, both of you. Let's go find Karen; see if she's got him.
TOM: God, I wonder whose car this is.
KAREN: Well, whoever it is, he listens to Pat Benatar, Eddie Money and the soundtrack to "Footloose."
TOM: ( looks at tapes ) Hold on. ( looks around car ) .I think this is my car from high
THE CAR: Gets caught on something and stops.
TOM: Looks like we get out here. Come on I told your father I'd have you home by ten.
A TRANSFORMER: down the street explodes.
A TRANSFORMER: On a telephone/power pole close to them. Rain hits it, causing the sparking sound. The floodwater is inching up the pole toward it. The water will reach the transformer in a matter of seconds. And while they're staring at that.
ANOTHER TRANSFORMER: At the end of the street explodes as water hits it.
TOM: They climb out of the car and start swimming toward a house.
THE TRANSFORMER: Water is three inches from the transformer; two inches.
THE TRANSFORMER: One inch from the water.
TOM: Get your feet up!
THE TRANSFORMER: The water is about to touch. There's a sizzling sound.
TOM: Oh, shit!
KAREN: ( re: antenna/ladder ) It's metal!
TOM: ( re: antenna/ladder ) It's metal!
KENNY: Comes screaming in on the jet-ski. He dives off the jetski, gets a hold of Tom and pulls him under.
TOM: We've gotta !
KENNY: HEY! I GOT HIM!
THE TRANSFORMER: The sizzling is getting louder.
TOM: We have to !
KENNY: I GOT HIM!
UNDERWATER: Tom grabs Kenny's arms and pulls himself up fast.
KAREN: Tom does the backstroke, pulling hard toward Karen.
KENNY: Still stunned, finally hears the sizzling and looks over THE TRANSFORMER The water touches the outer casing of the transformer.
THE TRANSFORMER: The water touches the outer casing of the transformer.
KENNY: Starts swimming fast toward.
KENNY: Grabs onto.
THE TRANSFORMER: Feels pretty pleased with himself until.
KENNY: Feels pretty pleased with himself until.
KENNY: Is hit by the voltage and his teeth clamp shut and his body goes rigid and his clothes explode in flames.
THE WATER: Dead fish start floating to the surface.
KENNY: Is fried, smoking. He falls off the TV antenna and hits the water with a loud and ugly hiss. He floats away, his body shaking spasmodically.
TOM: Is oblivious. He starts to put his foot down into the trap. Just then he knocks.
TOM: Jesus Christ!
MR. MEHLOR: Jim! Over there!
KENNY: Still twitching.
OMITTED: Sequence omitted from original script.
DOREEN: Real slow now. Like you were in a big jar of molasses. That's it.
DOREEN: I've got everything under control, Henry. You go back up.
HENRY: Jesus, Doreen, you caught a whole
KENNY: Jesus, God, it hurts!
JIM: You're gonna be okay, Ken. Mr. Mehlor knows these things and he thinks you're gonna be okay.
KENNY: It hurts!
JIM: Don't you, Mr. Mehlor? Don't you think Kenny's gonna be okay?
MR. MEHLOR: Yeah, Kenny. You're gonna be fine.
KENNY: Jesus, I can't stop shivering.
KENNY: I know you didn't want me to come.
JIM: You kidding? We couldn't've done anything without you.
KENNY: My dad'd sure be pissed off, huh?
JIM: Your dad'd just want you to lay still while we got you some help.
KENNY: Hey hey the pain's goin'. Oh, man.
KENNY: When you said I was gonna be okay, I thought you were just shittin' me.
JIM: See? You gotta trust me.
DOREEN: ( sarcastic ) Well, isn't that just wonderful! Now these bastards are gonna want to kill us, too! Why the hell did you have to come to this house?
KAREN: We thought it was empty.
DOREEN: You know what? The house next door is empty. So whaddya say we go back downstairs and you two keep moving?
HENRY: We are not going to send these people out to the wolves.
DOREEN: Oh, we're not, are we? Then what's your plan, General Schwartzkopf?
HENRY: I I just don't think
TOM: It's okay. I have to go anyway.
TOM: The National Guard'll be at the truck in about fifteen minutes. I'm gonna go wait for them.
DOREEN: You can't swim that far in fifteen He could take our boat.
HENRY: He could take our boat.
DOREEN: ( to Tom ) I'll go get it ready for you.
HENRY: ( to Tom ) I'll go get it ready for you.
DOREEN: Henry, he is not taking our boat.
DOREEN: ( grabs TV; to Tom ) Here. You want a TV too? How about some china? Maybe our silver? ( sets TV down ) Henry! Henry, you leave the boat where it is! ( she looks at him ) I'm Tom.
TOM: ( she looks at him ) I'm Tom.
KAREN: Watch yourself, Tom. I really don't wanna have to save your life again.
DOREEN: You give away our only boat in the middle of a flood. You are a genius, Henry. A goddamn genius.
TOM: ( whispers to Henry, re: Doreen ) You wanna come with me?
DOREEN: Jesus, Henry, what are you waiting for a kiss goodbye? Get back in
RAY: Why don't we just get him?
JIM: If our resourceful young friend hears us coming, he'll electrocute us or sink us or one of you'll shoot him. .I know where he's going. What I'd like to know is where he came from.
WAYNE: They're not here.
A COW: Floating in the water, tongue out, eyes glassy.
TOM: Kicks away, horrified. And then he hears an engine. He looks.
TOM'S POV: Jim's ski-boat is coming over the water. The engine cuts out and the ski-boat drifts, a hundred feet from Tom.
JIM: ( yelling ) Son, before you go underwater and do something tricky, there's something I'd like you to see!
TOM: Now, I know it's your job to protect that money, and maybe you'd even be foolish enough to give your life for it. The question is, are you willing to give their lives for it?
JIM: Now, I know it's your job to protect that money, and maybe you'd even be foolish enough to give your life for it. The question is, are you willing to give their lives for it?
JIM: Drop the gun and get into the boat.
TOM: Thinks for a second, then throws the shotgun away and pulls himself into the rowboat.
JIM: Excellent choice.
TOM: I'll take you to the money, but you gotta let them go.
DOREEN: I hope you're proud of yourself, Henry Sears.
HENRY: I think it'd be best if
JIM: I think it'd be best if
DOREEN: I told you not to give him the goddamn Doreen, please.
HENRY: Doreen, please.
JIM: I think it'd be best if we all stayed You say all you want is the money? Prove it. Let them go.
TOM: You say all you want is the money? Prove it. Let them go.
JIM: I don't know if that's
DOREEN: We could be safe in our home instead of out here in a boat with these low- life scumbags!
JIM: ( after a look at Doreen, nods to Mr. Mehlor ) Let 'em go.
TOM: ( whisper ) ( shakes head, whispers ) In the attic. They never saw her.
HENRY: ( shakes head, whispers ) In the attic. They never saw her.
DOREEN: ( disappearing in dark ) Faster, Henry! The bastards might change their minds! Stop lily- dipping and move it!
DOREEN: What're you doing?
HENRY: I'm gonna row back there and see if he'll shoot you. Or me. Fine either Do you want me to get us out of here?
DOREEN: Do you want me to get us out of here?
HENRY: Do you want me to get us out of here?
DOREEN: Yes, of course, I
HENRY: Then shut the fuck up.
TOM: The only thing I want to hear from you is where the money is.
JIM: The only thing I want to hear from you is where the money is.
KAREN: Is in the water, exhausted and cold.
JIM: I wonder where they think they're What the hell's going on?
RAY: What the hell's going on?
MR. MEHLOR: This happened in a flood in Georgia. The ground gets soggy, and the caskets are air-tight anyone who hasn't been planted too long just pops up.
RAY: You teach your students stuff like that? No wonder they kicked you out.
MR. MEHLOR: I didn't teach my students anything at all.
JIM: ( to Tom ) Where is it?
TOM: It's hard to tell now with the water so deep.
TOM: It's down there a little further.
TOM: Takes a quick look at his watch.
JIM: Sees Tom looking at his watch.
KAREN: Tom went off in their rowboat.
WAYNE: ( to Phil ) It's Tom now. Looks like you lost out, pal.
SHERIFF: Where was he going?
KAREN: Back to the armored truck.
JIM: Uh. no. A little farther
TOM: Uh. no. A little farther
JIM: They're not coming, son.
TOM: The National Guard. They're not I don't
JIM: The National Guard. They're not I don't
TOM: I don't
JIM: I know you've been trying to stall until they show up, but they're not Oh, God. You intercepted Charlie's call, then you called them off.
TOM: ( pause as he realizes ) Oh, God. You intercepted Charlie's call, then you called them off.
JIM: No, son, I didn't call them off. They never were coming. We didn't "intercept" Charlie's call. He called us direct.
HANK: I'd love to help you, Sheriff, but I can't leave! If the water goes over the top again it's bye-bye, dam! Bye- bye, town! In fact, I could use a little help up here myself.
SHERIFF: Hank, remember when Mike Crane holed up in Jack Finch's barn and said he was gonna burn it down?
HANK: Hey, I was the one who got the dumb son-of-a-bitch to come out.
SHERIFF: Right. And before you went in, I deputized you, you dumb son-of-a- bitch! So when I say get down here, it's not a request, it's an order. So get down here! Now! I won't need you for long. And bring your gun.
JIM: We were gonna hit you just before you got on the Interstate, but then you got stuck so we had to change our plans and take you
TOM: Bullshit. This is all bullshit.
JIM: I knew Charlie when we were both working construction for the Johnstown company. His middle name was McCarthy because his parents loved Charlie McCarthy on the radio. His wife's name was Mary. She died of a heart- attack last year. He has a daughter and a son, both grown with children of their own. I'm afraid I don't know the names of the grandchildren.
JIM: What else do I know.? Oh, yes. I know Uncle Charlie was trying to steer his favorite nephew away from a life of crime.
TOM: Why'd you shoot him? Kill Charlie and you get to keep another share?
JIM: No, That was an accident. Ken shot I never told him Charlie was on my side. Ken liked to talk. He shouldn't've been here. But his dad asked me to watch over him. I guess I didn't do the best job.
RAY: Excuse me, Jim. I hate to interrupt and all, but could we just get the money and get the hell out of here?
JIM: ( nods; to Tom ) I'm gonna ask you one more time. And before you think of bullshitting me again, keep in mind I have had a very frustrating night. And while I know I'll never get the money if I kill you, it's getting to the point where I just don't care.
TOM: I'll tell you where it is. But it's not going to do you any good.
TOM: The Guard may not be coming, but someone else sure as hell is.
JIM: I'll take my chances.
THE CRYPT: Just the top of it is visible. Two more COFFINS float nearby.
TOM: Jim steers the ski-boat over, hands Tom a flashlight.
JIM: Well, go get it.
RAY: ( eyeing Tom in water ) "At night we'd go down to the river and into the river we'd dive." ( off Jim and Mehlor's looks ) Springsteen, "The River." I'm all out of bible quotes.
UNDERWATER: Tom shines his light on.
THE CRYPT: One end of a rope is tied to the crypt. The other end, cut and frayed, is suspended in the water, waving in the current.
TOM: It's gone.
JIM: ( smug ) Looks like somebody beat you to it.
TOM: ( smug ) Looks like somebody beat you to it.
RAY: Oh for Christs I'm gonna shoot him, Jim.
THE SHERIFF: To the rescue. He and Wayne and Phil fire their guns.
TOM: Ducks underwater.
JIM: Pulls his pistol, returns fire.
MR. MEHLOR: Opens fire with a shotgun, shooting wild, yelling. Then he's hit and knocked out of the boat, dead.
KAREN: Stop! You'll hit Tom!
SHERIFF: Hold your fire!
JIM: Comes to the surface, breathing deep.
JIM'S GUN: Comes out of the water fast and the barrel goes to Tom's THE SHERIFF'S BOAT There's an adrenal fire in the Sheriff's eyes. He starts his boat forward, Wayne following. Their lights find.
JIM'S BOAT: No sign of life. Then there's a sound and the lights sweep over to find.
THE SHERIFF: Stops his boat. Wayne stops, too. They are thirty yards from Jim and Tom.
JIM: ( to Sheriff ) Now, sir, I can imagine you'd love nothing more than to shoot me, but I caution you in order to do that, you're gonna have to shoot through young Tom here.
THE SHERIFF: Thinks for a second, then shrugs.
SHERIFF: He raises his rifle.
KAREN: Realizes what is about to happen.
THE SHERIFF: Squeezes the trigger as.
KAREN: Hits the gun with her arm.
THE RIFLE: is grazed in the arm by the bullet.
TOM: is grazed in the arm by the bullet.
THE SHERIFF: Smacks Karen hard with his rifle and she tumbles out of the boat, unconscious.
JIM: Returns fire, shooting blindly over the top of the crypt.
PHIL: Reaches for Karen, floating limp in the water, but.
WAYNE: Is closer. He grabs Karen and pulls her into his boat, then grins at Phil.
TOM: Well, that was unexpected.
JIM: Is he the one you thought was coming to your rescue?
HANK: In his boat, right behind them, all dressed up in hunting gear, rifle at the ready.
SHERIFF: Hey, Hank. That money I told you about? From the armored car? We're gonna keep it. Three million dollars. Four ways. Seven fifty apiece. You okay with
SHERIFF: Hank? You okay with that?
HANK: Seven hundred and fifty thousand Damn straight I'm okay with that.
WAYNE: ( grumbling, re: Hank ) Don't see what we needed him for.
SHERIFF: Then I guess you've never been hunting with Hank. We got two behind that crypt. Get
PHIL: Maybe I'm not okay with it.
SHERIFF: Come on now, Phil.
PHIL: You're gonna kill people?
SHERIFF: They're looters, Phil! They come and steal from an armored truck in our town they're looters.
PHIL: What about Tom? What about Karen? They're not looters.
SHERIFF: No, they're witnesses.
HANK: Motor into view.
JIM: Opens fire.
HANK: Shoots back.
TOM: Flattens against the crypt, then turns to see.
WAYNE: Coming into view on the other side.
TOM: Looks at Jim, sees he's occupied in the fight with Hank. Then he sees.
RAY: Floating in the water, dead, pistol still jammed in his pants.
TOM: Thinks, decides, and reaches out for Ray.
TOM: Shooting back at Wayne with Ray's gun.
WAYNE: Pulls back out of the line of fire.
HANK: Curses and pulls back, too.
PHIL: How can you do this?
SHERIFF: Jeez, Phil, I always thought Wayne was the stupid one. Read my lips. Three million dollars. Look at it!
SHERIFF: A couple of those bags are gonna be yours, Phil.
PHIL: But but you're the Sheriff!
SHERIFF: I'm the what?
HANK: Whistles and gets Wayne's attention. He motions Wayne to try it again.
PHIL: For twenty years you've been
SHERIFF: For twenty years I've been eating shit, breakfast, lunch and dinner. Well, tonight I'm changing the menu! From now on everything I eat is gonna be shit-free!
TOM: Starts shooting at them with the two pistols.
TOM: KAREN'S ARM Draped over the side of Wayne's boat.
KAREN'S ARM: Draped over the side of Wayne's boat.
TOM: Takes another shot at Hank but stops firing at Wayne.
SHERIFF: Can I make it any clearer, Phil? Do you want me to draw pictures?
PHIL: I can't let you do it.
SHERIFF: Oh for Okay, Phil. But here's how it's gonna go. I'm gonna hear one of two things out of you. Either I'm gonna hear you say you're in with us, or. .I'm gonna hear a bullet come out of that gun and go into me.
SHERIFF: ( one hand ) Seven hundred and fifty thousand dollars or. ( other hand ) .you kill me. Your choice.
SHERIFF: There we go.
SOMETHING: Flies through the air; lands in the water by the Sheriff. MR. MEHLOR'S PACK And it starts sinking in the water.
JIM: Haul himself into the ski-boat.
JIM: Sticks the shotgun over the gunwale and returns fire.
TOM: Starts swimming for the boat.
THE WATER: Erupts in a huge geyser.
JIM: Fires up his engine.
TOM: Is almost to the boat.
WAYNE: Gets to his knees in his boat and starts shooting.
TOM: Gets to Jim's boat and grabs onto it.
JIM: Cranks the throttle, and, dragging Tom, tears off under the hail of Wayne's bullets.
TOM'S POV: As Jim races through the tombstones, barely missing halfsubmerged stone crosses and crypt roofs.
TOM: Rams into one cross.
HIS HANDS: Start to slip from the boat.
JIM: Grabs Tom's hand and holds on as they shoot off across the THE SHERIFF, PHIL AND HANK Get back in the boats.
TOM: ( beat, looks up at Jim ) You really want that money?
TOM: 'Cause the only way you're ever gonna see it is if you help me get Karen.
TOM: We're too slow.
JIM: ( thinks, then: )
KENNY: Lifeless and limp.
JIM: Looks at Kenny for a moment, then pushes his body overboard.
THEIR POV: They see a body tumble out of the ski-boat.
TOM: They're not going to catch us now.
LOW ANGLE: Of the ski-boat, racing toward camera. As it gets closer, the camera BOOMS DOWN underwater to reveal.
THE STATUE: The sword tip just below the surface. THE SKI-BOAT There's a jarring metal on metal clank as the sword tip slams into the propeller.
JIM: Slams head-first into the dash.
UNDERWATER: The propeller has stopped.
TOM: Looks back to see that.
TOM: Okay, so maybe they are gonna catch us now.
JIM: Is laying on the deck, unconscious. Just then. BAM! BAM!
BAM!: Has his rifle resting on his boat's windshield and is firing off a clip on automatic as he, Wayne and the Sheriff close Ducks down and tries to start the engine. No go. Again. It catches on the third try. Tom guns it and the boat tears THE OUTBOARD ENGINE Is wobbling, vibrating.
HANK: Has his rifle resting on his boat's windshield and is firing off a clip on automatic as he, Wayne and the Sheriff close Ducks down and tries to start the engine. No go. Again. It catches on the third try. Tom guns it and the boat tears THE OUTBOARD ENGINE Is wobbling, vibrating.
TOM: Ducks down and tries to start the engine. No go. Again. It catches on the third try. Tom guns it and the boat tears THE OUTBOARD ENGINE Is wobbling, vibrating.
HANK: Keeps up his stream of gunfire.
TOM: Stays down, driving blind, as the bullets fly in, blowing holes in the windshield. He looks at Jim, at the engine and curses. He steers the boat toward.
THE CHURCH: All lit-up, brilliant white in the darkness, a quarter-mile EXT. THE CHURCH The water is now over the sandbag wall. The first several feet of the church are flooded.
JIM: Hits the cold water and comes to, sputtering.
TOM: Grabs guns and ammo and jumps out of the boat and into the water. He lays a rifle on the top of the sandbag wall and fires off a clip.
TOM: That hurt?
JIM: EXT. MAIN STREET Wayne and Hank are alongside the Sheriff, engines idling as they look at the church.
TOM: EXT. MAIN STREET Wayne and Hank are alongside the Sheriff, engines idling as they look at the church.
SHERIFF: ( nods, to Hank ) Then go get some bottles.
PHIL: ( to Hank ) Wait what about the dam?
SHERIFF: It'll be fine.
PHIL: You said if it goes it'll wipe out the town.
SHERIFF: Fuck the town.
JIM: Does he have the girl?
TOM: ( shakes head ) She's in the small boat.
TOM: Jesus, I'm gonna get hepatitis.
JIM: Hepatitis, hell. You probably already got cholera.
JIM: What're you doing?
TOM: There's a back room. Maybe they've got something I can use on this.
JIM: You been in here before?
TOM: ( bad memory ) Oh, yeah.
JIM: What happened?
TOM: I saw Jesus.
TOM: Enters from the back. He's got a bottle of rubbing alcohol and a towel. He splashes some of the alcohol on the towel, then touches it to his wound. It hurts like a sonofabitch. After a beat.
TOM: So, has this all gone pretty much how you thought it would?
JIM: Everything would have gone fine if you'd've just walked away from the Oh, yeah? Well, everything would've gone even better if you hadn't decided to rob the damn truck in the first
TOM: Oh, yeah? Well, everything would've gone even better if you hadn't decided to rob the damn truck in the first
TOM: Did Charlie have cancer or something?
JIM: You mean why was he doing this? No cancer. Didn't you ever think about taking the money?
TOM: Come now. A man who used to make his living fencing hot jackhammers never thought about what he'd do with three million dollars?
JIM: Come now. A man who used to make his living fencing hot jackhammers never thought about what he'd do with three million dollars?
TOM: Sorry to disappoint you. What are you gonna do with it?
JIM: As little as possible.
TOM: Jim looks at him.
TOM: It's this small country in Central America, on the Atlantic side.
JIM: I know where Belize is. What about They speak English and the dollar goes a long way. Beautiful beaches; friendly people. And they've got liberal banking laws. Very liberal.
TOM: They speak English and the dollar goes a long way. Beautiful beaches; friendly people. And they've got liberal banking laws. Very liberal.
JIM: No, you didn't think about taking that money at all.
TOM: ( busted ) You can't ride in the truck and not think about it.
JIM: I'm sure. And I guess that's pretty much how it started with Charlie.
SHERIFF: What're you doing?
WAYNE: We got too many bodies with bullets in 'em. I'm gonna put her in her house, make it look like she fell down the stairs and drowned.
PHIL: Don't you touch her!
WAYNE: Saving her life. Hmm. You know, that might have actually gotten you Oh, for Christsakes, just dump her We got a few minutes before Hank gets back.
SHERIFF: Oh, for Christsakes, just dump her We got a few minutes before Hank gets back.
WAYNE: We got a few minutes before Hank gets back.
SHERIFF: Just dump her here!
SHERIFF: Wayne! Goddamnit, we've gotta get them outta there! Wayne!
TOM: Shit. Where's he going?
HANK: Where's Wayne going?
SHERIFF: On a date. You all set?
HANK: Yeah, but
SHERIFF: Then let's go.
HANK: Aren't we gonna wait for Wayne?
SHERIFF: We can get started without him, the dumb shit. He won't be long. Besides, we got Phil. Phil's gonna earn his money on this, aren't you Phil?
JIM: What you're gonna swim after her?
JIM: You ain't gonna help her by getting shot. He's gone and you don't know The Sheriff knows. I think maybe I'll go ask him.
TOM: The Sheriff knows. I think maybe I'll go ask him.
JIM: You'll be dead before you get over the sandbags. Look, he'll be coming for us. You can ask him then.
TOM: What if he doesn't come?
JIM: I wouldn't worry about that.
THEIR POV: The Sheriff, Phil and Hank are heading toward the church, flaming Molotov cocktails in their hands.
THE ROOF: The bottles hit, explode. Sheets of fire rain down the roof.
ONE BOTTLE: Smashes through a window.
THE BOTTLE: Flies across the inside of the church and smashes against a wall, sending sheets of fire down the wall.
WAYNE: Karen stirs, then starts slipping back into unconsciousness, so Wayne splashes her face with water. Karen comes to, sputtering. Her eyes focus. She looks up at Wayne. Wayne Karen says nothing. Wayne leans in close.
WAYNE: Dear Penthouse: I always thought your letters were fake, until the wildest thing happened to me. I'm a policeman in a small town. In the middle of the big flood last year, I was patrolling the streets in a boat, feeling kind of sorry for myself 'cause it was my birthday and all when I saw the front door to a house was open. I pulled my gun afraid it might be looters. Imagine my surprise when, instead of a looter, I find a young woman handcuffed to the railing of her stairs. Her name was Karen, and ever since she came back from college she'd made it clear she was too good for any of us local folk. Now here she was, in handcuffs! I said, "What the heck is going on here, ma'am?" And she said.
WAYNE: And she said.
KAREN: Sorry, Wayne, but I'm not playing a part in your sick little play.
WAYNE: You're perfect for the role. I suggest you reconsider.
KAREN: Or what? You'll kill me? You're gonna do that anyway.
WAYNE: I might get clumsy. It might take a I'm sure you can hurt me. But it's all going to be the same when I'm And she said, "Happy Birthday, Wayne. I've got something for you." Well, I'm not stupid. I knew what she wanted to give me and I knew she wanted to give it bad, so I
KAREN: I'm sure you can hurt me. But it's all going to be the same when I'm And she said, "Happy Birthday, Wayne. I've got something for you." Well, I'm not stupid. I knew what she wanted to give me and I knew she wanted to give it bad, so I
WAYNE: And she said, "Happy Birthday, Wayne. I've got something for you." Well, I'm not stupid. I knew what she wanted to give me and I knew she wanted to give it bad, so I
WAYNE: ( looks up at light ) That won't do. Man's gotta see what he's doing. 'Scuse me.
KAREN: Raises her hips and digs a hand into her pocket and pulls out her Swiss Army knife. She pries open the big blade. She hears Wayne sloshing back toward her. She gets back into the position Wayne left her in as.
WAYNE: Re-enters carrying two burning candles in candle-holders.
WAYNE: I got the candles. All's we need is a cake.
WAYNE: Mood lighting. You in the mood yet? And then she said, "My present's ready and waiting. All's you gotta do is unwrap it."
WAYNE: It was cold and rainy that birthday night, and all I wanted was to get someplace warm and dry. As it turned out, what I really wanted was something warm and wet. Wayne grins and closes for a kiss and.
KAREN'S HAND: Moves fast with the knife and.
WAYNE'S EYES: Pop open wide.
WAYNE: His head jerks back. He tries to shout, but all that comes out is an awful gurgle. He tries to push off Karen, but.
KAREN: Wraps her legs around him, holds him close, pinning him.
WAYNE: Finally breaks free. He tries to stop the bleeding with a hand, but the blood spurts through his fingers. He reaches for his gun in his holster on the banister, but just as he grabs it.
KAREN: Lashes out of the water with her legs, kicking Wayne in the groin, pushing him back.
WAYNE: Tries to get his balance, but his feet can't move his pants are around his ankles. He falls back into the water, firing his pistol.
BULLETS: Blow chunks out of the wall next to Karen, hit the ceiling Is floating on his back, trying to lift the pistol, but his strength is fading fast. He gets off one last shot and.
WAYNE: Is floating on his back, trying to lift the pistol, but his strength is fading fast. He gets off one last shot and.
THE CANDLE: Nearest Karen is blown to pieces.
WAYNE: The gun drops into the water. No more shots. No more life. He floats, pants around his ankles, covered in blood, dead.
KAREN: Happy Birthday, Wayne.
THE CEILING: The fire has eaten holes in the roof. Embers come down.
SHERIFF: They're not coming out, Hank!
HANK: The fire's not catching. The rain's We have to get them! We have to kill them! Do you understand? If they're not dead, we got jack shit!
SHERIFF: We have to get them! We have to kill them! Do you understand? If they're not dead, we got jack shit!
BRIGHT LIGHT: Floods into the church through.
TOM: My God they're beautiful.
THE BOATS: Land, stop fast. The Sheriff's boat lands closer to the pulpit; Hank's boat closer to the balcony.
KAREN: There have to be keys. There
WAYNE: Still floating on his back, still dead. She looks closer WAYNE'S PANTS Bunched around his ankles. And there, hanging from a belt- loop is a ring of keys.
WAYNE'S PANTS: Bunched around his ankles. And there, hanging from a belt- loop is a ring of keys.
KAREN: Reaches out with her foot for Wayne's pants. She can't reach.
WAYNE: Is slowly drifting out the open door. Beyond the door, in the light of the streetlamp, the water is riffling, moving, and Wayne is heading toward it.
KAREN: Slides down further on the stairs, into the water, then stops.
KAREN: Reaches out with a foot, straining, stretching her body, almost dislocating her shoulder and.
HER FOOT: Just barely touches one of Wayne's feet, but then Wayne's foot slips away and.
KAREN: Can only watch as.
WAYNE: Drifts out the door and is pulled away by the current.
SHERIFF: Where are they?! Jesus!
UNDERWATER POV: Looking up through a tangle of floating pews at the wavering silhouettes of the boats and the men in them against the burning timbers above.
TWO PISTOLS: Come into view, pointed up through the water.
BULLETS: Come streaking out of the water, winging by them, plugging into the boats.
UNDERWATER: Jim fires the pistols, the bullets' bubble streaks knifing up through the water.
TOM: Surfaces over by the stairs up to the balcony, gasping for air. He runs for the stairs.
BLAZING TIMBERS: Start to fall from the burning roof frame, hitting the water with loud sizzling hisses.
TOM: Disappears up the stairs, the bullets just missing him.
UNDERWATER: Jim runs out of bullets. He's long since run out of air. He drops his guns and swims under the pews.
HANK: Looks up, realizing that Tom will be able to shoot down on him. He reverses his boat fast under the balcony as.
TOM: Shoots down from the balcony, blowing a chunk out of the prow of Hank's boat.
UNDERWATER: She's using the tip of the knife blade to unscrew the screws holding the support to the railing. She's on the last one. The blade slips, misses, gets a quarter turn, another quarter Spits out the water that spills into her mouth.
KAREN: Spits out the water that spills into her mouth.
UNDERWATER: Another quarter-turn and the screw is loose enough to turn by hand.
KAREN: Holds her breath with the water touching her nose. She gets the screw loose, pulls up on the railing and pulls the handcuff through the gap between the support and the railing.
SHERIFF: You take care of him!
UNDERWATER: Jim pulls an electrical cord out of a wall socket.
HANK: Is firing up at Tom through the floor of the balcony.
TOM: Jumps back, startled, looking down at.
TOM: Moves back from hank's advancing bullet holes.
THE SHERIFF: Keeps firing.
TOM: Is caught between Hank's bullets and the Sheriff's bullets. So he racks a load in the shotgun and dives backwards off the balcony.
HANK: Is still shooting up as.
TOM: Arcs off the balcony, firing the shotgun under the balcony at Hank.
HANK: Dives to the floor of his boat as Tom's shotgun blasts blow plate-sized holes in the church doors.
TOM: Lands in the water and goes under.
HANK: Starts to get up from the bottom of his boat, searching for a clip for his gun.
THE SHERIFF: Sees Tom's shape in the water and is about to shoot when.
JIM: Jumps up out of the water with the electrical cord. He tosses a loop of the cord around the Sheriff's neck and pulls, yanking the Sheriff out of the boat.
TOM: Comes out of the water, aiming his shotgun at.
PHIL: Who is aiming his pistol at Tom. Phil freezes.
HANK: Fumbles with the bullet clip.
HANK: ( to Phil ) Kill him!
TOM: Turns his shotgun on Hank and pulls the trigger click. Uh-
HANK: Kill him!
HANK: Slams the clip into his gun and levels it at Tom.
PHIL: Points his gun at Hank.
PHIL: No! We can't
PHIL: Lands between Jim and the Sheriff, knocking them apart.
THE SHERIFF: Is free of Jim's grasp. He shakes off the electrical cord and turns to shoot.
JIM: Who moves a little faster. He grabs Phil's pistol and puts it to the Sheriff's head before the Sheriff can bring his gun around.
HANK: Draws a bead on Jim and is about to shoot when.
TOM: Comes out of the water on the other side of Hank's boat. Tom pushes down hard on the side of the boat.
HANK: Is rocked back, thrown off balance. He starts to spin and bring his gun around when.
TOM: Swings with the shotgun, catching.
HANK: In the side of the head. Hank crumples and falls into the water, taking his rifle with him.
JIM: In the boat.
THE SHERIFF: Hesitates, then tosses his rifle into the boat.
TOM: Grabs Hank's rifle and aims it at the Sheriff.
TOM: Where's Karen?
KAREN: Tugs at the railing, tries rocking it up and down. It doesn't budge. She starts chipping at the plaster with the knife.
KAREN: God, I am really beginning to hate fine craftsmanship.
THE WATER: It's up to her chest.
TOM: Where is she?
SHERIFF: They went back to her house.
TOM: Where's her house?
SHERIFF: And just then they all hear something truly ominous a siren pierces the night.
JIM: What in God's name is that?
SHERIFF: ( woozy but okay ) It's topped out.
HANK: ( woozy but okay ) It's topped out.
SHERIFF: How much time we got?
HANK: How should I know?
SHERIFF: It's an old dam! Not long.
HANK: It's an old dam! Not long.
SHERIFF: ( to Tom ) Then I'd say you boys better drop your guns.
TOM: That's the deal! You let me and Hank go with a few of these bags and I'll tell you where to find Karen.
SHERIFF: That's the deal! You let me and Hank go with a few of these bags and I'll tell you where to find Karen.
JIM: ( to the Sheriff ) Get out of the boat.
TOM: Hold on.
JIM: Hold on?
SHERIFF: It's the only way you're gonna find It's only a couple of bags.
TOM: It's only a couple of bags.
JIM: But I thought
TOM: But I thought
JIM: Look, I don't know what you thought but I told you, I'm here for the money; that's all.
PHIL: Alive, but barely.
PHIL: Three over. Two-story, blue shutters.
TOM: Looks at Jim, disappointed, angry, then hurries to Hank's Climbs into the Sheriff's boat.
JIM: Climbs into the Sheriff's boat.
TOM: Climbs into Hank's boat. He starts the engine, looks down Floating in the water, dying. A brief look between them, Drives the boat out through a shattered window.
PHIL: Floating in the water, dying. A brief look between them, Drives the boat out through a shattered window.
TOM: Drives the boat out through a shattered window.
JIM: Pushes the Sheriff out of the boat.
SHERIFF: So, you just gonna kill me?
JIM: Lord knows I should.
TOM: Wades in along the upper hall.
TOM: I'm guessing you can't get up.
KAREN: I'm handcuffed.
KAREN: The railing's bolted to the wall.
KAREN: I've got a saw.
TOM: In the kitchen. In the tall cupboard beside the
KAREN: In the kitchen. In the tall cupboard beside the
TOM: Is that good or bad?
THE SHERIFF: Drops underwater.
JIM: Turns back at the sound of the Sheriff going under.
UNDERWATER: The Sheriff pulls up his pant leg.
JIM: Is aiming his gun at the water and is about to fire as.
JIM: Is shot in the gut and the thigh and high on the chest and he stumbles back, bellowing, and falls out of the Sheriff's boat and into the water.
SHERIFF: You should've just killed me.
KAREN: You gotta go!
KAREN: The dam's gone! You gotta go!
TOM: ( shakes head ) I owe you one.
UNDERWATER: Tom flicks on his flashlight and starts swimming down the Watches Tom and his light get swallowed up in the murky water.
KAREN: Watches Tom and his light get swallowed up in the murky water.
PHIL: EXT. MAIN STREET The Sheriff's boat comes onto Main Street, moving fast.
NOOOO!: EXT. MAIN STREET The Sheriff's boat comes onto Main Street, moving fast.
HANK: We gotta go faster!
SHERIFF: Yeah, you're right.
HANK: Goes skipping over the water and slams into a streetlight INT. KAREN'S HOUSE Tom swims down into the living room. His light shows a couch, chairs, TV set. Books and newspapers are suspended in the EXT. THE CHURCH The damaged ski-boat that Jim and Tom took to the church has slipped off the sandbag wall and is drifting. A peaceful scene. But then, from the distance, comes a rushing roar.
A BIBLE: And he clutches it to his chest as.
THE FLOOD: Hits the church.
HIS POV: Streetlights in the distance, winking out one by one, marking the advance of the wall of water.
HANK: Oh my God.
HIS POV: There's an alleyway.
HANK: Swims for the alley.
HANK: Swims for it. He hears the rushing roar of the advancing flood. He expects the flood to blow by the end of the alley. WALL OF WATER Comes into the alley, banking high on the far wall before coming down and barreling toward Hank. And what makes it worse for Hank is that there's.
A CAR: At the front of the wave, being pushed by the water.
HANK: Dives clear just as.
THE CAR: Smashes into the wall, right where Hank had just been.
HANK: Relief in his eyes. He gets to the fire escape and is climbing to safety when.
PROPANE TANK: Comes into the alley, rolling in the flood, spraying propane from a torn hose. It explodes.
HANK: Barely has time to scream.
A WINDOW: Caves in and.
TOM: Tries to get through the tangle of branches and leaves, but can't. He swims over to another window and slides it up.
KAREN: Keeps looking down for Tom.
TOM: Surfaces near the side of the house, gasping. The current starts ripping him past the house. He swims as hard as he can back to the house, reaches out and grabs onto a gutter.
TOM: Swims in with the saw. He starts sawing on the handrail. Everything's going fine. And then.
THE SAWBLADE: TOM AND KAREN Look at each other. Oh no. Karen's going under.
TOM: Sees something. He dives into the water.
KAREN: Can only watch and wait. What's he doing? Oh, Jesus. And Surfaces, holding Wayne's pistol. He puts the mouth of the barrel to the handcuff chain, shields Karen's face, looks away and pulls the trigger.
TOM: Surfaces, holding Wayne's pistol. He puts the mouth of the barrel to the handcuff chain, shields Karen's face, looks away and pulls the trigger.
DOREEN: Come on, Henry. Forget that "Go to the light" crap. Come back to me. You're all I've got.
DOREEN: Oh, Henry. Thank God.
HENRY: Next time, when I say "Let's evacuate," we're gonna evacuate.
DOREEN: Whatever you say, honey.
THE SHERIFF: In his boat, shining a searchlight on them with one hand, a gun in the other. He starts shooting.
KAREN: Hears an engine behind her and turns.
A BOAT: Racing toward the house. It's.
JIM: Barely alive.
JIM'S POV: He sees Karen, crouched below the peak of the house, a bright light coming from the other side along with gunshots.
JIM: Pushes the throttle all the way forward.
UNDERWATER: Tom swims hard toward the Sheriff's boat.
THE SHERIFF: Is shooting down into the water at Tom's moving shape.
KAREN: Thinks he's going to turn.
KAREN: No! No!
KAREN: Rolls to the side, just getting clear as.
THE SHERIFF: Hears the sound and looks up as.
TOM: Surfaces to see.
THE SHERIFF: Who ducks down, just in time as.
THE SHERIFF: Straightens up, grinning with glee that the boat missed him. And then he hears a piercing whine coming from behind him. He turns, just in time to see.
THE SHERIFF: Starts to scream.
THE SHERIFF: Is just some misshapen thing trailing red, floating in the Tries to restart the ski-boat but it's dead. He slumps Sees Jim slump against the side of the boat.
JIM: Tries to restart the ski-boat but it's dead. He slumps Sees Jim slump against the side of the boat.
TOM: Sees Jim slump against the side of the boat.
TOM: You okay?
JIM: Tom can tell Jim's anything but. Tom swims for the boat.
THE BOAT: Tom swims up, pulls himself in. He pulls Jim back off the controls, sees the blood.
TOM: Oh, God. We gotta get you to
TOM: For what?
JIM: For what?
TOM: You just saved our lives.
JIM: I did? I just came for the money.
JIM: ( grabs Tom's arm ) No. Tell her to stay back.
TOM: ( to Karen ) It's okay!
JIM: You're going to turn it in?
TOM: Sorry to disappoint you.
JIM: Well, hell, then I guess I better take it after all. I figure the river'll carry me down to the Gulf of Mexico. If I catch the right currents, maybe I'll end up in. You come look me up. I'll buy you a I'll do that.
TOM: I'll do that.
JIM: Tom hesitates for a second.
JIM: Tom turns and slides into the water and swims away.
JIM: Son, don't think too badly of your Uncle Charlie. He always said you were capable of remarkable things. He was right.
JIM: ( smiles ) The rain's stopped. ( breathes deep ) The air after a rain.
TOM: Swims through the swirling current toward Karen's roof.
JIM'S BOAT: Sinks below the surface and is gone.
TOM: They got a lot done today.
KAREN: It's coming along. What'd you get?
TOM: Barbecue chicken from Lilly's.
KAREN: You want some? I wish you'd told me. I woulda got more.
TOM: You want some? I wish you'd told me. I woulda got more.
KAREN: Ha ha.
TOM: I talked to Mikey. He says the flooring should be in by Friday.
KAREN: That's what he said last week.
TOM: I said if it wasn't here by Friday at six that you were going to go over and beat the crap out of him.
KAREN: And I will.
THE END: Writers : Graham Yost
