FINAL DRAFT: Converted to PDF by SCREENTALK FADE IN: EXT. HOLLYWOOD HILLS HOUSE - EARLY EVENING A modest but handsome home in the foothills above Gower.
SONNY: ( calls back to Daddy! I don't want you to go!
MASON STORM: emerges from the house wearing a dark Gianni Versace sport coat with a black vest underneath, carrying some kind of case in his hand. He looks great a man of action, not dandified at all by the snappy attire. He squints down toward Sonny, proudly very much the family Mason's pretty wife, FELICIA, appears in the doorway.
FELICIA: ( calls to Sonny ) Your father has work to do, Sonny . but he'll be home soon. And we'll all watch it together.
SONNY: You promise, Dad?
STORM: I promise.
SONNY: Daddy . Daddy, is E.T. gonna win?
STORM: He's got my vote.
FELICIA: ( tight to Storm ) I want you back early. Tonight's the night those little starlets are crawling all over town.
STORM: Don't worry. I'll beat 'em off with a stick.
SONNY: ( wants him to What about my joke?
STORM: Knock knock.
SONNY: Who's there?
STORM: Old lady.
SONNY: Old lady who?
STORM: I didn't know you could yodel.
FELICIA: ( to Storm ) Take my advice: Don't give up your day job.
STORM: ( into handset ) Karl . wake up.
KARL: ( into radio ) I'm here, Mase. Where are you
STORM: On the Harbor . south of Torrance. I got Calabrese right in my If I had a Sidewinder missile, I could save the taxpayers a lot of
WITH STORM: If I had a Sidewinder missile, I could save the taxpayers a lot of
STORM: If I had a Sidewinder missile, I could save the taxpayers a lot of
LIMO: veers toward an upcoming exit ramp.
PIER 65: Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org 4. As the limo passes and, moments later, Storm's car.
STORM'S CAR: pulls up at a distance, deep in shadow.
ON STORM: Moving carefully onto the wharf, keeping to shadow, using EXT. WHARF - NIGHT Stacks of huge shipping crates and Sea-Land containers from a long wall along the cluttered dock. The towering hulks of several ships loom close by. Storm finds a slot between bulk containers: a good surveillance point.
STORM: Let's go, boys. I'm missing the
SHACK: One man crosses under the eave of the shack reaches up, SMASHES the single LIGHT BULB. The spot goes dark.
WITH STORM: Seeing the doors open on both cars. A mature man, CALABRESE, and his stocky confederate, VITALE, step from the limo. TWO other MEN one wearing a stylish hat, the other bareheaded step from the wagon. They cross to the shadowed, shack area.
STORM: Starts his camera soundlessly whirring. He positions his high-tech directional mike, slipping on earphones.
CALABRESE: Murder is a serious business, my friend. And an expensive one.
CALABRESE: Slowly . slowly. Always with I'm up to here with caution! That fuck lives on bean curd and alfalfa sprouts he ain't gonna die of natural causes.
CALABRESE: All I'm counseling is a little patience. The man is public. He's in the paper every day.
ON STORM: He squints over the camera, straining to see with the naked eve Frustration
VITALE: We'll do it.
STORM: Knowing he's on to something super hot.
STORM: ( to himself, Who are you? Get out of those
STORM: ducks quickly back out of sight. As he does this, his earphone cord catches on something. yanking the phone off Storm's head. He cannot hear what the conspirators say next but the audience can.
CONSPIRATORS: SHADOW MAN WITH HAT
STORM: ( re: the fairy ) A quarter's a quarter.
CALABRESE: Mikey! Quit playing with yourself back there.
STORM: bolts back up the wharf, toward his car.
TRENT: moves INTO FRAME beside Calabrese. The Bareheaded Shadow Man with him is Police Captain DAN HOLLAND ( in civilian business suit ) 21 years on the force, hard as nails.
CONSPIRATORS' POV: They see Vitale pull up, on foot, as Storm's CAR ROARS OFF into the darkness. Vitale seems close enough to pick out the license number.
TRENT: ( to Calabrese ) Whoever that sonofabitch is, I don't want him to get an hour older.
CALABRESE: He won't, Mr. Assemblyman.
CALABRESE'S LIMO: speeds up beside the conspirators. Calabrese gets in, the limo whips off down the wharf to pick up Vitale and take off after Storm.
DUNNE: Karl Storm on three.
KARL: You throwing away dimes now?
STORM: This doesn't go out over the air, pal. For your ears only.
KARL: ( getting out What's going down?
STORM: Calabrese. I just got his ass on candid camera.
KARL: You're full of shit!
STORM: Him and his gorilla Vitale. I got film and audio on both of them, laying out a hit. Two other guys I couldn't make out, but I'm sure they'll come up on the film. This is a big one, Carlito. Our own academy award. You ready?
KARL: ( taking notes ) I want you to track down Morgensteen right now. If he's with that meter maid from Pico, crank her legs apart and pry him out of there.
STORM: I want you to track down Morgensteen right now. If he's with that meter maid from Pico, crank her legs apart and pry him out of there.
KARL: He ain't gonna be happy.
STORM: Screw his happiness. Tell him I want the lab open at six-thirty tomorrow morning. I want this film pushed to the max, and nobody but us to know about it. I know we got something here.
KARL: You bringing it in tonight?
STORM: I promised my kid I'd be home. I'll be at the lab before dawn.
STORM: How ya doing? Got any champagne?
COUNTER MAN: Right next to the caviar. There's some in the big cooler.
STORM: You're not watching the Oscars?
COUNTER MAN: The Oscars? I hate the Oscars.
COUNTER MAN: Who needs the goddam movies? I get it all in here every night. Horror. Sex. Freaks. Violence. And I ain't gotta pay no four bucks.
STORM: ( to Counter Man ) You got a phone back there?
COUNTER MAN: Why ?
STORM: ( orders him ) Punch nine-one-one.
COUNTER MAN: Sonsofbitches! You creeps ripped me off two weeks ago!
SHOTGUN PUNK: Shut up.
COUNTER MAN: Take it, man. Take my life's
COUNTER MAN: Where is a cop when you goddam need I got half a mind to come out there and teach you sonofabitch
SHOTGUN PUNK: Now you got half a mind, old man.
SHOTGUN PUNK: What are you grinning at, pindejo?
STORM: We . ell . there's only three of you and you only got one shot Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org 13.
STORM: ( to Punk, calmly ) I know what you're thinking. I have this big shotgun and all you have is that little icepick. Mine's bigger than yours. It's not fair.
STORM: Still not fair?
STORM: Don't wait for the blindfold, Chinga tu madre!
PUNK #3: ( clutching the Chinga tu madre!
DETECTIVE #1: You were armed, Storm why didn't you just use your gun?
STORM: I just got these new glazer bullets. You know they're almost a buck a pop now?
STORM: I know that voice.
STORM: Wish I could sleep like that.
FELICIA: Maybe I can help you.
SONNY: Is that for me, Dad?
STORM: You faker.
SONNY: E.T. lost.
STORM: Who won?
SONNY: I dunno. Candy.
STORM: ( from doorway ) Mahatma Candy. He was a great man.
FELICIA: ( from doorway ) Mahatma Candy. He was a great man.
STORM: ( very gently ) You know why E.T. lost?
SONNY: Cause they only let grownups vote. If kids had voted
STORM: Cause they only let grownups vote. If kids had voted
SONNY: ( cheered by We would have gave E.T. We would have given him everything.
STORM: We would have given him everything.
SONNY: Storm starts to rise.
SONNY: ( wants him to Daddy tell me a knock-knock.
STORM: You know the rules. One joke a day. I have to make 'em
FELICIA: There's blood on your jacket.
STORM: It's okay. It's not mine.
FELICIA: If people knew how sweet you are, they'd never be scared of you.
FELICIA: I'm not scared of you.
STORM: Maybe you should be.
FELICIA: ( closer, Why? Are you planning on doing something to me?
STORM: A couple of things crossed my mind, in the car coming home.
FELICIA: ( in mid-kiss ) Door's open.
FELICIA: ( frightened )
STORM'S POV: We see one of the assassins thrown backward, jacket blown open at the shoulder.
LITTLE MAN: ( re: Big Man's ( he's tough ) Get to work.
BIG MAN: ( he's tough ) Get to work.
LITTLE MAN: ( patting Storm's You got the tapes?
BIG MAN: ( re: what he I got a shitload of 'em.
O'MALLEY: Jesus Christ.
O'MALLEY: strides forward into the crush.
TRENT: ( emotional ) knew Storm from when I was City Attorney . and he was a young homicide detective - ( choking back We worked on. cases . together
TRENT: What makes people do this? Will you tell me? Will someone please tell me?!!
O'MALLEY: ( calls ) Holland! Captain Holland!
O'MALLEY: pushes his way toward Holland. Two uniformed cops in the crush along the way. O'Malley comes up beside Holland.
O'MALLEY: ( whisper, full Let me tell you something, you piss- ant. That man in there was the cleanest I ever knew with more honor and guts than this whole department put together. If I ever hear you say fuck all like that again, I'll lose my shield to put you where you belong.
HOLLAND: ( hostile ) What the hell's I.A. doing up at this hour?
O'MALLEY: Taking over the show.
HOLLAND: This is Homicide, not Internal
O'MALLEY: We got two cops down, with money and drugs all over the place. This is straight from the commissioner.
HOLLAND: You and Storm were tight, O'Malley. I'm sorry.
O'MALLEY: He was the most unstoppable sonofabitch I ever knew.
HOLLAND: He got stopped tonight. Holland breaks his stare at Storm's body and drags away, signaling his own cops to vacate. They exit. No farewells between Holland and O'Malley. O'Malley waits silently, watching Holland and his men clear the corridor and emerges from the emergency room.
DOCTOR: emerges from the emergency room.
E.R. DOCTOR: Excuse me, are you with the police?
O'MALLEY: ( dully, showing
ID ): Lieutenant O'Malley. What've you got, Doc?
E.R. DOCTOR: I've got a live cop, is what I've
E.R. DOCTOR: The paramedics called it wrong, so did my people at first. Look. it happens. The man had no vital signs. With all the blood and excitement, I almost missed it myself. But we have a pulse now. Your man is alive,
O'MALLEY: slips the cassette into his pocket. O'Malley makes a decision. Turns intensely toward the Doctor.
O'MALLEY: Who else knows he isn't dead?
E.R. DOCTOR: No one . just the people in her. Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org 26.
O'MALLEY: I want to see each one of them before they leave the room. No one else comes in as of right now.
E.R. DOCTOR: Hold on. I don't think you
O'MALLEY: ( eyeball to Mason Storm is going to vanish, Doctor and you're gonna help make it happen. Until he can give us some answers, the deader he is, the safer he is.
MARTHA: You're early again.
ANDY: ( deadpan ) You won't report me, will you?
ANDY: ( re: shift report ) Inquiring minds want to know
MARTHA: Dr. Cannon ordered a glucose drip on Jimmy See. Mack's E.E.G. monitor's developing a nice electronic hiccup and your . turned his head.
ANDY: ( electrified )
MARTHA: ( excited too ) I thought he was going to sit up. I almost shit!
ANDY: ( gently, with Can you hear me, John Doe? I don't care what the doctors say, I know my words are reaching you
ANDY: Yogi said it ain't over till it's over. Till the fat lady sings. There's life in you, J.D., I feel it. I'll never give up on you, and you'll never give up on yourself Besides . you've got so much to live for.
ANDY: Besides . you've got so much to live for.
ANDY: Sorry. I won't be long.
MARTHA: How's the sleeping prince? Still sleeping. It's bad enough when it's old people. But a young handsome guy
ANDY: Still sleeping. It's bad enough when it's old people. But a young handsome guy
MARTHA: Don't let this job get you, honey. It's eight hours, not twenty-four. Get out, meet somebody . get laid
ANDY: ( with a grin ) You can have my orgasms, Martha. I'll make up for 'em later.
STORM: ( in b.g., weakly, Nurse .
JONES: Internal affairs. Detective Sergeant My name is Andrea Simpson. I'm calling from U.C.I. Medical Center. I'd like to speak with Captain O'Malley.
ANDY: My name is Andrea Simpson. I'm calling from U.C.I. Medical Center. I'd like to speak with Captain O'Malley.
JONES: What is this in regard to, please?
ANDY: I have a John Doe coma patient, code access 461 zebra, with instructions to notify upon any change in condition.
JONES: What is the change?
ANDY: ( with enthusiasm ) The patient has regained
JONES: ( urgent ) Nolan. Get Holland at home . right now. ( back to Andy I'm sorry, Ms. Simpson. Captain O'Malley is no longer with this division. Let me take your information. Please . contact no one else on this matter.
STORM: Miss . please . they won't tell me . think I'm too disorient
ANDY: This is U.C.I. Medical Center. You've been in a coma. Your charts go back for seven years.
STORM: ( staggered ) Seven. years?
STORM: Who . who knows I'm awake?
ANDY: ( innocent It's all over the hospital. You're the first one that's come out of a coma of this duration. You'll probably be on the news! ( beat ) You'll be famous!
STORM: ( struggles to Listen to me carefully ( reads her name Andy. I don't have the strength to talk much. I'm a cop. My wife . family . murdered. That's how I got here. If you don't get me out . you and I . good chance . both be dead.
ANDY: Please you're in no danger here.
STORM: ( urgent but can't stay here. Listen to me -
ANDY: I'll have one of the aides take you down the hall for hydrotherapy. It'll help you relax.
STORM: Listen. I've got work to do. You're my cutest patient, but you're not my only one.
ANDY: Listen. I've got work to do. You're my cutest patient, but you're not my only one.
RUSS: Excuse me, Doctor. I have to check everyone on the upper floors. Can I just get your I.D.
DANNY'S POV: He sees Russ's partial body in the doorway up the hall recognizable because of its security uniform trousers.
DANNY: reacts as if fearing Russ has had a heart attack. He leaves Storm, rushes forward to investigate. Storm strains to see.
DANNY: ( dashes up ) Russ! Russ, are you
ANDY: backs through the double doors at the other end of the hall, trying to balance an overloaded tray of supplies she's carrying. She and Ford are momentarily in full view of each other . but backs turned. Suddenly Ford hears Andy! He spins . gun ready. Andy carefully heads that way the two corpses visible ahead and the killer poised to waste her. But she's concentrating on the overloaded tray, traveling closer . closer . until she turns off into the medicine Ford swiftly hauls both corpses out of sight.
AT ELEVATORS: Storm weakly, awkwardly "rows" himself toward the elevators with the mop handle. Then using his hands, trying to grasp the wall and push himself along.
AT ELEVATORS: Storm struggles to push himself inside. Everything an excruciating effort. The doors slap into his litter, trying to close. Reopen. Close. Reopen. Hindering him as he throws a look toward
STORM: THIRD-FLOOR CORRIDOR - AT ELEVATORS The killer hears this hears the ELEVATOR START UP. He punches the call button. The other elevator opens. He plunges in just as:
STORM'S ELEVATOR: The doors open revealing a dark, deserted seventh floor still under construction. He registers the opposing elevator rising his way jabbing again at the control panel . exposed there . doors wide open. Wild stabs. Any button will do just close the goddam door! DING! Ford's ELEVATOR arrives. Doors open. We make out the killer's form just as Storm's doors close. Storm blows huge relief. Looks to see what he finally pushed . Shit! the 3RD FLOOR button. He puts the mop to the side wall and shoves himself with all he's got. The gurney wheels around and places him right next to the control panel. Storm twists onto his side and slams a hand over the EMERGENCY STOP button. But the button jams! And Storm's thrusting hand has pushed his gurney even farther away! He can't reach it! He feels the elevator about to stop at a floor . claws at the mop, as a weapon . raises it with all his feeble strength. The doors open and Andy crashes into him!
ANDY: My God!
STORM: ( hoarse, weak ) Help me .
ANDY: I'm sorry! Sorry
FORD: hurtles from the stairwell. In one beat, he takes in the janitor; in the next, Andy and Storm down the hall. Ford takes off after them. He's going to catch them!
JANITOR: jerks up on the power cord! It whipsnakes down the hall, flaring up, tripping Ford! He sprawls face-first as:
EMPTY GURNEY: rolls randomly INTO VIEW across the lot.
"OJAI.": INT. L.A. COUNTY COURTHOUSE - MEETING ROOM - DAY OPENING ON a big table, covered with weapons confiscated from gangs pistols, knives, assault rifles. Reporters crowd around Senator Trent at the table. A large sign reads: "GANG WEAPONS SEIZED IN ONE WEEK!"
TRENT: ( to group, Six gang-related murders in one week. We're going to put a stop to it and we're going to start right
TRENT: I'll be talking with the mayor. We'll have a statement shortly
TRENT: ( to Holland, How much dirt do I have to shovel into this goddam Storm's grave?
TRENT: Holland plaster his ass with slime in the press. Put a tail on every person he knows
HOLLAND: We know how to do our job, Senator.
TRENT: Then start showing it. I'm starring in that sonofabitch's home movie and the Oscar is thirty years in the slammer. He's toast,
TRENT: ( to crowd ) We're going to end violence in this state and you can take that to the bank!
STORM: Seven years.
STORM: Outside the HORSE WHINNIES loudly and rears up on its hind legs. Storm turns toward the horse When Storm is turned away from the TV, a 10-second ad comes on. Senator Trent waving and smiling to a crowd.
TV SCREEN: An attractive female spokesperson speaks directly and sincerely into camera.
STORM: Certain the world has gone insane.
ANDY: ( into phone ) can't come in to work, are you crazy?! I can't even go to my apartment! People are dead, Martha . no, I can't tell you where I am . you're better off not knowing
ANDY: ( into phone ) I am freaking A.W.O.L. I mean, what am I gonna do with this guy ( pacing, anxious ) I want to help him. my God, he needs it . but it's all over the T.V., he's some kind of crooked cop with drugs and murder and
ANDY: It's okay I'm here, I'm with
STORM: ( into phone ) Yeah, that Esposito. The ignorant fuck who's broadcasting the news right now. ( listens ) Tell him it's Storm. Mason Storm.
STORM: ( to Andy ) I can't stay here. They'll trace you from the hospital in two
ANDY: ( cuts him off ) I told you no one knows I'm here! I'm house-sitting. ( out of patience, This place belongs to a doctor friend of my parents. He's in China now, on research. won't be back for six months. The medical center only has my apartment address. Even my friends don't have this ( beat ) Will you believe me?! We're safe
STORM: ( into phone ) ( furious ) Listen, you sonofabitch
ANDY: We'll find your friend O'Malley. We'll just keep phoning .
STORM: Listen. I'm getting out of here.
ANDY: ( knows he has I'll buy tickets to that.
STORM: I just need some food and a few days to get my strength.
ANDY: Days? Try a few weeks.
STORM: You helped me, okay? I'm grateful. But every day you keep helping puts you in more danger.
ANDY: ( deadpan ) Danger is my middle name.
STORM: I've been dead, Andy. You wouldn't like it.
ANDY: Hey, hey I don't think you get the picture here. Your muscles have been getting electronic stimulation at the hospital, but it's not like actually being up and bearing weight.
STORM: You're the one who doesn't get the Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org 46.
EXTREME CLOSEUP: Fury, frustration, despair
ANDY: grabs his arm and helps him back onto the couch. She exits the room and comes back momentarily with a bowl of rice and begins to try to feed him. Of course he takes the fork away and tries it himself, but by now his arms are so fatigued from the previous strain that they shake, his hand trembles and he misses his mouth getting the rice all down his beard. Spilling a little too much to ignore and at first it looks like he's going to explode. He looks up at Andy, who looks so sad. Storm breaks out laughing and so does Andy. They howl together for a while and then settle down. Now Andy begins to "help" feed Storm.
ANDY: ( next to bed ) Mata Hari at your service.
STORM: Just some herbs I need for my
ANDY: No problem. This is on my list for Safeway every day.
STORM: ( re: himself ) That bad . huh?
ANDY: I'll be in the other room.
WIDEN SHOT: TO REVEAL Trent's office. Trent, Holland and several of Trent's security aides glued to the tube.
TRENT: turns to his men and to Holland.
TRENT: ( indicates I want 24-hour surveillance on this
DUNNE: Where out of town is Andy?
MARTHA: I don't know. Look, I've been questioned by you cops half a dozen times since Tuesday. I'm getting a little tired of it. You need a warrant to walk in on someone like this. Get the hell
MARTHA: Then I'll get out.
FORD: We'll ask you again, Martha: Where is Miss Simpson?
MARTHA: I'm calling your superior officers to report this. I want both your names and shield numbers.
MARTHA: Help? Help me!
MONTAGE: WITH SCORE. A ) INT. ARMSTEAD GYM - NIGHT An impressive home facility with floor-to-ceiling mirrors, Nautilus equipment, etc. Storm ignores the machines and tentatively selects from an old set of weights, hefting them to test his own strength, then begins a slow workout.
ANDY: That's enough! I don't care how many needles you stick in yourself or how much ginseng root you eat . you have to sleep if you're going to recover.
STORM: I slept for seven years?
ANDY: That's an order!
ANDY: Jesus what a patient!
ANDY: You can't compare blood pressure readings now with when you were in a coma. It's not going to give a true measure
STORM: What's this reading? 555 over four That's crazy
ANDY: That's crazy
ANDY: It's Martha's chicken scratches. Even she can't read 'em.
STORM: I'll tell you what it is. It's a phone number.
ANDY: ( into phone ) I'm. sorry . maybe I have the wrong number. I'm looking for Kevin O'Malley.
OLD LADY: O'Malley? There's no O'Malley here.
ANDY: My name is Phyllis O'Connor. I'm with the pension board of the Los Angeles Police Department. We have a misplaced check here for Captain O'Malley .
OLD LADY: A check? Well, listen. there's a big turnover here, people are dying all the time, I never know who's in what bed. Can you leave me your
ANDY: ( into phone ) I'm sorry, we're not allowed to do
VILLA.": INT. RETIREMENT HOME - OFFICE - DAY Andy sits across from the Old Lady from the phone call. A plaque on the desk reads: "HENRIETTA WADE." Both she and Andy look frustrated, irritated.
ANDY: Mrs. Wade, I'll be honest with you I'm not from the police pension board. My name is Andrea Simpson, I'm a nurse from U.C.I. Medical
ANDY: You probably have no connection to this, and what I'm about to say
ANDY: I can't do that.
ANDY: Can I phone you?
MRS. WADE: ( pleasant; Of course, my dear.
CLOSET: Andy opens the door, reaches in for her jacket. Suddenly she pauses. She sees on the closet shelf, amid other clothing: policeman's cap with a gold shield. Andy makes a decision finds a pad on a table, scrawls a phone number. She holds out the paper.
ANDY: ( pointedly ) This is my number, Mrs. O'Malley.
MRS. WADE: ( correcting her ) You mean Mrs. Wade. O'Malley is the person you're looking for.
ANDY: Yes . you're right. I'm sorry.
ANDY: Oh, I'm sorry . I didn't mean to interrupt. I, ah, well, I was just passing by and .
ANDY: appears in the doorway, returning from the kitchen with a tray and glasses. She wears a robe and has that mussed, after-lovemaking glow. She takes one look at Storm and her heart sinks. She crosses to him lowers herself gracefully to kneel beside him, setting down the tray and glasses.
STORM: ( dead )
STORM: He gets up, backing slowly away from her seeing the pain in her eyes, feeling his own pain. In frustration, he slams an elbow punch into a piece of gym equipment furiously venting rage! Andy flinches at the sound, the
STORM: I'm sorry Sorry. I
ANDY: Mason, please I love you.
STORM: Don't say that!
ANDY: Why not?!
STORM: Because I can't love you! Don't you see? It's seven years to anyone else. But it's only days for me.
STORM: How can I be with you . how can I want you and take you, when
STORM: You seduced me. You came in here, looking that way, knowing just what the hell you were doing
ANDY: ( defiant ) Yeah, I knew. What of it? I wanted You have no right to want me!
STORM: You have no right to want me!
ANDY: Then who does?! I've risked my life for you
STORM: Who asked you to? Not me!
ANDY: You haven't stopped me!
STORM: Then don't risk it! Don't do shit for me! I don't need you!
STORM: stands in the midst of the graveyard, staring at
THREE TOMBSTONES: In the light from the road lamp, we read the names: FELICIA
ANDY: ( into phone ) Pick up, Martha . Pick up.
ANDY: Get a hold of yourself, Andy.
ANDY: ( into mirror, You're really beautiful.
ANDY: ( calling out ) Martha! Martha, it's me
NEIGHBOR: ( tentatively ) You looking for Martha Coe?
ANDY: Yes. yes
NEIGHBOR: You haven't seen the news? She's dead. They shot her in the back. over in Westwood.
NEIGHBOR: ( staring at her ) You look like the woman's picture on T.V. the one whose house they shot her at
FORD: ( into two-way You called it right, Max. The bitch showed. I'm on her ass right now ( pulls out to Mount up, boys. Two to one she leads us right to our boy Storm.
MAN: That's grand theft, auto.
STORM: ( with emotion )
O'MALLEY: He made it to my house, the night you got shot. I hid him, played it out like he was dead even staged a funeral, along with Felicia's and yours. They bought it. Everyone believed he was dead.
STORM: Where is he now? Is he safe?
O'MALLEY: Trinity School in Ventura. Under my mother's maiden name, Wade. No one has any idea he's your son.
STORM: ( trying to absorb Then that was your mother. The one Andy found.
O'MALLEY: Your nurse friend? Yeah. She left your number, I traced you to here. O'Mal . I can never thank you.
STORM: O'Mal . I can never thank you.
O'MALLEY: Just seeing your ugly ass alive, that's enough for me. You wouldn't happen to have a beer around this joint
STORM: I'd give my left arm to see Sonny, just for two minutes. But we can't risk it not yet. Not till I get Calabrese? Calabrese's dead.
O'MALLEY: Calabrese? Calabrese's dead.
O'MALLEY: Someone blew the shit out of his Cadillac six months after you He did his thing then they waxed
STORM: ( understands ) He did his thing then they waxed
STORM: The two guys at the pier. They ordered the hit on me too. And I've got 'em on film. Still in the camera, right where I left it.
O'MALLEY: That night in the hospital, I found the audiotape . in your vest. I must've listened to it a thousand times looking for little quirks in the voices, phrases they repeat .
STORM: Where is the tape?
O'MALLEY: I turned it in for evidence.
0'MALLEY: Don't worry, I made a duve. I'll get it for you. Meanwhile maybe this'll cheer you up.
STORM: What happened, O'Mal? To you?
0'MALLEY: I was on the case, trying to find who pulled the trigger on you. But it was like swimming through shit. People kept telling me to back off. Then one morning, the phone rings. Immaculate Heart Emergency: someone ran my mother off the road, her back's broken, she's paralyzed.
STORM: ( painful, emotion ) I'm sorry, O'Mal.
O'MALLEY: That night there's a note in my locker letting me know it's not an accident.
O'MALLEY: You know me, Storm. I never would've backed off. But there was Sonny to worry about too. What if they found him? What if they found you?
STORM: You did the right thing, O'Mal.
STORM: We'll get 'em, buddy. Every fucking one of them.
STORM: Get Sonny out of that school, O'Mal. Right now. With me alive and making a stink, whoever's on that film is going to be looking harder than ever for Sonny just to get to me. Get him someplace safe . three thousand miles away if you have to.
O'MALLEY: Consider it done.
STORM: I'm going straight to get that film. When you've got Sonny safe, bring me the audiotape. We'll put 'em together and get 'em to Esposito for the T.V. news. That should be quite a show.
O'MALLEY: You got it, partner. You can always reach me through my What about that nurse? She still in For the best. For her best.
STORM: ( with pain ) For the best. For her best.
O'MALLEY: Thanks for the brew!
STORM: ( it all comes I'm gonna take you to the bank, Senator Trent. The blood bank.
ANDY: Martha's dead.
ANDY: I won't leave you. Not ever again.
STORM: I won't let you.
STORM: O'Malley was here.
ANDY: Here? How did you find him?
STORM: You found him. The old lady was his And Andy . my son's alive.
LIVING ROOM: Ford and Jones, masked, hurtle into the living room, just below the atrium balcony. They raise their automatic weapons, but before they can fire
STORM: hurls Joe Bear's massive body down upon the attackers! Jones takes the tonnage head-on and is crushed beneath it! Ford dodges, unleashes a burst of AUTOMATIC FIRE straight up at the balcony. Storm shoves Andy to safety onto the exterior balcony and dives there himself, just as the whole interior balcony is RIDDLED by Ford's BULLETS! Ford bolts for the staircase, coming after Storm. Storm, crouched around the corner on the exterior balcony, waits till Ford hurtles INTO VIEW at the top of the staircase. Storm FIRES his .45 furiously . Ford springs back, Storm's BULLETS BLAST the staircase WALL to ribbons. His .45 CLICKS empty!
STORM: I know this fuck. He's a cop!
JEEP'S POV: The heavy iron gate straight ahead.
STORM: SLAMS THROUGH the metal GATE with JEEP BLASTING it.
ONCOMING VEHICLE: Captain Holland! in the car as a passenger, with another plainclothes cop. The flying gate sends glass in all directions, as Storm swerves in his Jeep to avoid the Storm freaks, seeing Holland as Holland's car is forced off the road. Storm SKIDS into a wild 180
STORM: ( gun in hand, Holland! The other man on the dock
ANDY: Are you crazy?! Get us outa here
STORM'S JEEP: swerves as BULLETS SMACK into it! Protecting Andy with his body, he races off down the mountain road at high INT. O'MALLEY'S CAR - MOVING - DAY The unmistakable sound of a TIRE BLOWING OUT.
O'MALLEY: EXT. HIGHWAY ONE - DAY O'Malley's car limps to the roadside, in view of a sign: "VENTURA 21." O'Malley gets out in frustration
DOWNFIELD SIDELINES: The soccer coach turns back. We see him shout, his arm raised in a gesture of urgency
ANDY: What the hell are you doing?!
STORM: We just made the top of the chart, Andy. Every cop in the city thinks we shot our way out of a legitimate There are no cops here!
ANDY: There are no cops here!
STORM: Only 'cause they're too stupid. We need that film and we don't need any bullshit
ANDY: Goddamit . for once, do something the non-violent way!
HOUSEWIFE: Gee, my husband and I aren't really thinking about selling. In fact, we're adding a nursery
ANDY: Oh, that's the best time for us to see it! Then when you do come to sell, our office will know the upgrades you've made and we can market your home more effectively.
HOUSEWIFE: Hell, come on in. Everyone else
STORM: New wall . fucking yuppies!
WALL: Bang! Gypsum wallboard splinters, revealing a fake panel of brick adjacent to a real brick wall, six inches behind the new wallboard. Storm reaches into the hole, yanks out the camera case. He shakes his sore knuckles from the blow as:
HOUSEWIFE: ( very cool ) Just checking for termites He tucks the camera case under his arm takes Andy by the elbow.
STORM: ( to Housewife ) Better have this place fumigated
STORM: ( to Andy ) O'Malley left his mother's place three hours ago with the tape. He should be at the school by now, but she hasn't heard back from him.
ANDY: ( re: people Fuck the tape. We gotta get this film to Esposito or I'm gonna have a nervous breakdown. ( into phone ) Mrs. O'Malley. Sorry . listen. We're outside the Century Plaza now . the hotel. Right, right. The one in Century City. Okay, listen closely . ( makes this Tell O'Mal to leave a message for us at the hotel desk. Leave it for Andy . Andrea Smith. We're not gonna check in, it's too dangerous but the desk will hold the message if you tell them we're coming in this afternoon. Got it? Great. You're a champ, Mrs. '0.'
STORM: ( into phone ) Mrs. O'Malley. Sorry . listen. We're outside the Century Plaza now . the hotel. Right, right. The one in Century City. Okay, listen closely . ( makes this Tell O'Mal to leave a message for us at the hotel desk. Leave it for Andy . Andrea Smith. We're not gonna check in, it's too dangerous but the desk will hold the message if you tell them we're coming in this afternoon. Got it? Great. You're a champ, Mrs. '0.'
STORM: You're gonna call Esposito. But not from this phone.
MONTAGE: WITH SCORE. Tension, urgency increasing
STORM: Hey, hermano! You want this Jeep?
YOUTH #1: How hot is it?
STORM: Fuckin' smoking.
YOUTH #1: We got it, my man.
ANDY: ( checking watch, Esposito won't be here yet. He said He'll be there.
STORM: He'll be there.
STORM: Try O'Malley one more time. If you hear any lions roaring, haul
STORM: Don't worry. I'm a big boy.
TRENT: What a day, huh? Beautiful! Want some nuts?
STORM: I haven't got the film on me.
TRENT: ( breezily ) I didn't think you would. ( clears space Sit down. Take a load off.
TRENT: You do have the film somewhere, I
TRENT: Developed yet?
STORM: Still in the camera.
TRENT: Good. Very good. That way I know you haven't duplicated it.
STORM: You know, Trent . I could rip your fucking throat out before that sonofabitch over there could find the spit to sneeze.
TRENT: Oh, I'm sure you could, Storm. But not before one of those other gentlemen, across the way, could put a fifty-caliber slug through your brainpan.
STORM: Very well placed, Trent. But did you know that human reaction time even the fastest is between half and three-quarters of second? And in that time, I could easily
TRENT: You could kill me now, Storm but you'll die two seconds later.
STORM: You think I care, motherfucker? Just so I get you one way or the Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org 81.
MAX DUNNE: Twenty feet away both hands up holding a bay's athletic shirt. "TRINITY VENTURA."
TRENT: Reach into my jacket pocket. Reach in!
TRENT: I want that film and the tape. I'll give you three hours.
STORM: ( to Trent ) Just tell me one thing. Who pulled the trigger on me and my wife?
TRENT: ( sadistic irony ) Hate poisons people. Let go of it.
DUNNE: ( to Storm ) I missed your kid seven years ago. But I won't miss tonight. Bring that film, Mr. Storm. Three
TRENT: Bring that film, Mr. Storm. Three
NOLAN: ( re: power plant ) It's fun, huh, kid? Kinda like a field trip.
SONNY: I'm remembering both of you. And when my dad gets here
TURNER: He's gonna have a long trip, kid starting from Forest Lawn.
NOLAN: By the time this night's over, your old man'll have a use for that phony grave of his.
NOLAN: Yeah. yeah we'll be right down.
NOLAN: ( to Sonny ) We'll come back with your French ( padlocks the Don't leave home without us.
SONNY'S POV: A 30-foot drop to the pavement below.
SONNY: It's okay, sport. It's okay. it's okay
O'MALLEY: It's okay, sport. It's okay. it's okay
ANDY: Is that a steering wheel or a Winchell's donut?
O'MALLEY'S CAR: with Sonny aboard, pulls out.
SEDAN: pulls out after it.
MESSAGE DESK: ( displays badge I need to check any messages for a Miss Andrea Smith.
JONES: ( displays badge I need to check any messages for a Miss Andrea Smith.
DESK CLERK: I'm sorry. I see no slot for that She hasn't checked in yet. But she's due here. Someone might have left a message for her.
JONES: She hasn't checked in yet. But she's due here. Someone might have left a message for her.
DESK CLERK: Here it is. There's just one message.
JONES: You can put this back now. You never saw me. You never saw these guys.
JONES: half-hidden at a corner of the cocktail pit..
TWO PLAINCLOTHESMEN: dispersed at angles across from the message desk.
FORD: slips back out of sight.
JONES: does the same.
ANDY: Sonny got away! He's with O'Malley! O'Malley's gat the tape they're heading for Union Station.
STORM'S POV: He spots Ford!
STORM: his eyes flash across the lobby. He spots:
JONES: shields Andy. Plainclothesman #1 steps out, whipping out his badge. Suddenly Storm grabs the cop with the badge in front of his face and uses him as a human battering ram for him and Andy to escape, plunging the man through two layers of glass windows of the adjoining Hertz rental office and out into the street in front of the hotel! Andy follows through the newly formed exit. People scream. Chaos. The other cops react in pursuit of Storm and Andy.
STORM: shields Andy. Plainclothesman #1 steps out, whipping out his badge. Suddenly Storm grabs the cop with the badge in front of his face and uses him as a human battering ram for him and Andy to escape, plunging the man through two layers of glass windows of the adjoining Hertz rental office and out into the street in front of the hotel! Andy follows through the newly formed exit. People scream. Chaos. The other cops react in pursuit of Storm and Andy.
VALET AREA: The valet is a big fat man in a red Beefeater costume. He is presently handing keys to a large "good old boy" boots, ten-gallon hat and all. Tex is just laying a bill in the Beefeater's hand, and starting to stuff his too- large frame into a sleek Gullwing speedster with its doors popped up. Before he can, we see him take a flying seat on the road as Storm and Andy shove in and
FORD: Get the goddam cars!
O'MALLEY: Be careful you don't get any of that guck on your sweater . let me comb your hair before your old man gets here, it's stinking up in the back.
SONNY: Quit it, will you . you're making me more nervous than I am already. My father's going to be more interested in seeing the real me.
O'MALLEY: I think I'm more nervous than you are, kid. We got out of my mother' place about two shakes ahead of the landlord . know what I mean?
SONNY: My dad'll get 'em. You guys'll nail them all. You think he's gonna like me?
O'MALLEY: Does a bear dump in the woods? Are you kidding he's gonna love you.
SONNY: Let me see the tickets. Did you get us one of those sleeping cars? What time is he getting here anyway?
O'MALLEY: Just then, O'Malley becomes aware of a bad vibe in the air. A foreign presence. Nolan, and Turner have followed him and Sonny from Mrs. O'Malley's house. Now they O'Malley slip the tape from his pocket, placing it under Sonny's Jacket on the bench without missing a beat, as he calmly starts to rise.
NOLAN: ( calling out ) Hey, O'Malley! Long time no see. ( approaching ) Taking a trip somewhere?
O'MALLEY: ( to Sonny, under Make sure your father gets this . ( to Nolan ) Yeah. Me and my son are visiting my mother in New Mexico.
NOLAN: Your son, huh? That's funny. He doesn't look much like you Does he, Turner?
TURNER: Looks a lot like Mason Storm.
NOLAN: Enough of this fucking around. We want the tape.
O'MALLEY: Sonny run!
O'MALLEY: ( shouts ) Go! Sonny get outta here!
NOLAN: Get the kid! He's under the cars!
TURNER: Give us the tape, kid and we'll take you home.
SONNY: Fuck you, Jack!
O'MALLEY: ( to Nolan, dying ) You don't deserve to wear your badge. with his last failing strength, O'Malley raises the tire iron. Nolan PUMPS him once, square in the chest, killing him.
ON SONNY: unaware of Storm trying to escape from his pursuer.
NOLAN: cursing and unable to gain ground on the fleet-footed now actually raising his gun. Suddenly:
STORM: from the roof of the next-to-last car roof in a line of parked vehicles soars through the air like a night eagle- setting what looks like a new world record in the long jump surprising Nolan from the rear! Slamming the cop to the ground in instant death. Cracking his neck.
SONNY: stops. Gasping, breathless seeing the father he hasn't seen in seven years.
STORM: relieved and overwhelmed, grabs his son and lifts him off the ground in a moment of salvation and triumph. They hold each other with all their strength.
ANDY: watching them. Touched deeply. Then: O.S. SIRENS!
DRIVER: Where to?
ANDY: That's a good question. Out of here for sure.
ANDY: turns with Sonny to see Storm, through the back window of the cab, looking after them protective full of emotion.
SONNY: ( to Andy ) Where are we going? Who are you?
ANDY: thinks for a moment.
ANDY: It's a long story. You got a few
RATTLING MAELSTROM: EXT. TRENT MANSION - RAIN - NIGHT No sentries, no dogs. Only a high gate and fence surrounding the fort-like mansion.
STORM: swiftly sliding through the shadows, he moves around the perimeter, pausing to examine things, searching for something. He finds an old storm gate to what would probably be a cellar or basement.
DUNNE: ( angry, defending What do we have to do, Holland drive a fucking stake through his heart?
HOLLAND: I'll settle for a bullet.
HOLLAND: You had him point-blank seven years ago, and he's still walking!
FORD: He won't be for long. Not with his picture on every T.V. in
HOLLAND: Fuck his picture! Get off your Start earning your money!
STORM: Out of nowhere appears at the door opposite the one Holland just left by. He is dripping from the rain and has a .45 pointed at them with one hand, while with the other he holds a finger to his lips as if to say, "Shhh, don't wake the baby."
STORM: How's the action, boys? Mind if I
STORM: I know what you guys are thinking. You're thinking I couldn't play with this gun in my hand. Right?
STORM: Well? Somebody hand me a cue.
STORM: That's for my wife. Fuck you and
INDOOR POOL: Holland pours himself a nervous drink. He paces, tracking Trent who's doing a gentle breaststroke.
TRENT: I want Dunne and the others here. That goddamn Storm is nuts enough to come after me
HOLLAND: He's nuts but not that nuts.
HOLLAND: A faint smile comes to his face with great confidence. As he backs out of the toilet, he pulls his pistol from his shoulder holster, cocking it. He cautiously exits.
TRACKING: Holland as he moves toward the sporting room and his support team. He enters the area of carnage and the smug confidence on his face starts to change to a slight worry. He then starts carefully making his way back to the indoor pool to inform Trent.
INDOOR POOL: Holland enters the area and finds no one. Now the look on his face is one of fear and confusion.
HOLLAND: But he has a plan. His plan is to try to make it out of the house in one piece. What was once careful stalking has turned into panicked blundering. CONTINUE TRACKING Holland as he bumps into things, knocking them over, retreating wildly. He passes a raging fireplace and suddenly out of the shadows comes a voice:
STORM: I'll give you more time than you and Trent gave my wife.
STORM'S POV: Holland picks up a fireplace poker. He's swinging like maniac and we hear the sound of the poker SLASHING the
STORM: Vernon, oh, Verrrrrnon, where are
STORM: ( loud enough Let's see . where could that bad boy be?
MASTER CLOSET: Storm enters and begins pushing the clothes of the racks aside looking for something that's probably not there. Trent is too smart for this shit . he's probably on a jet to the Bahamas by now.
STORM: You know, Trent, I want to kill you so bad I can barely contain myself. But I keep thinking that death is far too merciful a fate for you, and that a nice petite white-bread boy like you in a federal penitentiary . let me put it this way I doubt whether you could remain anal retentive for very long. Yeah. I think that's best for you
FULL SHOT: Now we see them fully: the colors, the feeling, the emotion of caring men marching in the funeral parade of a fallen CAMERA PAN'S OVER to reveal a section of mourners mostly police but with some civilians. The CAMERA MOVES CLOSER and PANS TO the front row, where we see Storm in full police regalia, a medal of valor around his neck. Andy and Sonny are standing near at sober attention. The procession stops and the lone bagpiper continues to play the dirge as he walks up and takes his position on a section of lawn. The pallbearers remove the flag from the casket and present it to the Chief of Police, who now slowly approaches the group of mourners and stops directly in front of Sonny Storm. He presents the flag and salutes Sonny. The lone bagpiper stops and an officer on TRUMPET begins playing "Taps." The coffin is slowly lowered.
UP TOWARD: LIGHTS ABOVE NEWS SET which now FILL the FRAME bright and blinding. The screen starts to bleach out . it goes white and
ANDY: It takes a beat before she realizes what it is. Then:
ANDY: Hey . Seven year Storm! I told you you'd be famous.
STORM: picks the TV up from Andy's lap and, while it's still playing, heaves it over the side and into the drink!
ANDY: ( laughing ) Hey! Why'd you do that?
STORM: watching the last ripples from the sinking set. A moment between him and himself when the past is allowed to slip away, sink out of sight, making way for the future. Storm turns back from the water surface, to his son and to the woman he loves. He sits ( letting the boat drift wherever it wants to ) and tugs Andy down beside him. Then he reaches across to his son, pulls the boy to him with a playful headlock. For a moment both Andy and Sonny are held in suspension, wondering what Storm will do or say. For a beat, the boy is taken aback. Then he break's into a broad smile.
STORM: ( to Sonny ) Knock, knock.
SONNY: Who's there?
STORM: Boo who?
SONNY: Boo who?
STORM: You don't have to cry about it. I love you both.
BOAT: drifts its happy way across the sun-shimmering sea.
THE END: Writers : Steven Pressfield Ronald Shusett Steven Seagal
