JANE: It'll take a month to probate the will, Nell! A month! Even if Mother left you something, you won't get it in time to pay the rent. So instead of complaining, you should be thanking Lou for getting you these two weeks to get Mother's things packed.
LOU: You're still going to have to settle with your mother's landlord on the back rent.
NELL: I'm not going to stay. I'll get a job. I'll get my own apartment.
JANE: Nell. A job? Two months and where is this job? You have no degree, you've never worked
NELL: I've never worked?
JANE: You have no experience in the world. the regular world. What would you put on a resume? Now we all appreciate what you did for Mother. Isn't that right, Eleven years. Long time.
LOU: Eleven years. Long time.
JANE: That's why we've been talking. With me getting more time in Accessories, and Lou at the shop all day, we need somebody to take care of Richie, do a little cleaning and cooking. And in return you can have the extra
RICHIE: Eleanor, help me! I've got to
LOU: Richie, knock it off before I beat the crap out of you!
JANE: You're sure this is all of Mother's jewelry? The lawyer said to make sure we took it to him. He said there might be some antique pieces. Have you seen anything? Some of it might be Think about our offer, Nell. You don't know how hard it is out
NELL: Hello? Yes, this is Eleanor. Where? Yes, it's right here.
TROUBLE SLEEPING?: WANTED - RESEARCH SUBJECTS. $900.00/.WEEK + RM.&BD. @ BEAUTIFUL OLD HOUSE IN BERKSHIRES. PSYCHOLOGY STUDY. END MAIN TITLE SEQUENCE
MALCOLM: It's still an electric shock!
MARROW: Come on Malcolm, it's only seven ohms, it's nothing, it's like a joy buzzer! And it's not about the pain, it's about the interference with concentration. Look, look at what it does! The subjects on the left, because they anticipate the shocks, make the adjustment, and lose nothing on their scores. The subjects on the right, because the shocks are random, can't anticipate, and the distraction throws them off.
MALCOLM: Stop defending your science after the fact, Jim. The department protocol for research is very clear about this, and you violated the rules. I know, I know, I know that "Fear and Performance" is a big sexy idea, but as long as I'm chairman here you will need this department's endorsement to publish it, and right now I can't do that. Malcolm, this is essential work I'm doing. Just think what my research can do for education. Elementary school classrooms near train tracks or airports, where loud noise is random; this helps to prove the need for sound insulation if the children are ever going to learn to read.
MARROW: Malcolm, this is essential work I'm doing. Just think what my research can do for education. Elementary school classrooms near train tracks or airports, where loud noise is random; this helps to prove the need for sound insulation if the children are ever going to learn to read.
MALCOLM: And that will be a good place to end this study.
MARROW: No, Malcolm! Individual performance is only part of it. I know why baseball players choke for no reason, I know why violinists throw up with fear before every concert, and need to, to give a great performance, but what I want to know is, how fear works in a group.
MALCOLM: Not the way you've constructed your group, it's just not ethical!
MARROW: But if the group knows it's being studied as a group, you contaminate the results. The deception is minor.
MALCOLM: Are you working with her?
MARROW: Mary, I'll meet you outside.
MALCOLM: Why are you working with her? Mary Lambretta was thrown out of the department for trying to get a Ph.D. in psychic studies.
MARROW: And after she was thrown out, she needed a job.
MALCOLM: You don't believe in the No, but she does, and that's all that matters.
MARROW: No, but she does, and that's all that matters.
MALCOLM: Does she know that's why you're using her?
MARROW: I, I just can't.
MALCOLM: I, I just can't.
MARROW: She needed a job, Malcolm. And she's smart. And she helps me.
MALCOLM: I have a bad feeling about what you're doing.
MARROW: This is the last chapter. Please, please give me clearance. It's for science.
MALCOLM: I'm gonna hate myself for this.
MARROW: Thank you.
MARY: I see a hostile man. he's ( she describes him ). The hostile man does not believe in Madame Velka.
MARY: You know what he's really upset You're going to publish, he's going to perish. And why did you hire me for this?
MARROW: You're going to publish, he's going to perish. And why did you hire me for this?
MARY: You're going to publish, he's going to perish. And why did you hire me for this?
MARY: It's for you. You hear the vibrations in the wire. There's a magnetic pulse in the wires, you feel it. I could test it.
MARROW: You hear the vibrations in the wire. There's a magnetic pulse in the wires, you feel it. I could test it.
MARY: Test it.
MARROW: Yes, this is Doctor Marrow.
MARY: How'd I know it was for you?
MARROW: ( quickly ) Because it's my phone. ( back to the phone ) Yes. Mrs. Dudley, just leave the boxes inside, thank you. See you soon. Thank you.
MARY: Here's how they're organized. Groups of five, very different personalities: scored all over the Kiersey Temperament Sorter just like you asked for. And they all score high on the insomnia charts.
MARROW: A PHOTO OF NELL falls on the floor. Marrow scoops it up. He holds the photo of Nell up to Mary, and look at the written notes and studies the graphs that go with it.
MARY: Her mother died two months ago. She says she really wants to do this. I didn't know if it'd be taking advantage.
MARROW: ( meaning the graph, What a beautiful profile. How do you feel about her? What does your intuition say?
MARY: I put my favorites on the top.
MARY: What's this? What's this. this picture?
MARROW: That? That's Hill House.
MARY: This is where we're going?
MARROW: Yes. It's perfect, isn't it?
NELL: Hello Baby.
NELL: She's okay. She woke up and she saw she was alone.
MOTHER: Say thank you, Spencer. I was getting her something to drink. She's been crying all That's all right.
NELL: That's all right.
MOTHER: Of course you know, how many children do you have?
NELL: Then you're a teacher. Nursery You just. you seem like someone who takes care of children, lots of children.
MOM: Then you're a teacher. Nursery You just. you seem like someone who takes care of children, lots of children.
NELL: You just. you seem like someone who takes care of children, lots of children.
MOM: You just. you seem like someone who takes care of children, lots of children.
NELL: Maybe. maybe someday. I'd like Umm, I'm a little lost.
NELL: They sent me directions and I've got a map, but it's kind of confusing. Here. it's a place called Hill House?
NELL: What are you doing?
NELL: Did I say something wrong to you?
MR. DUDLEY: What do you want?
NELL: Oh! You scared me.
MR. DUDLEY: Me? No. What are you doing here?
NELL: Are you Mister Dudley, the Yeah, I'm Mister Dudley, the caretaker. What are you doing I'm with Dr. Marrow's group. I'm supposed to check in with Mrs. Dudley up at the house. Is she
MR. DUDLEY: Yeah, I'm Mister Dudley, the caretaker. What are you doing I'm with Dr. Marrow's group. I'm supposed to check in with Mrs. Dudley up at the house. Is she
NELL: I'm with Dr. Marrow's group. I'm supposed to check in with Mrs. Dudley up at the house. Is she
MR. DUDLEY: Maybe she is.
NELL: Why do you need a chain like that?
MR. DUDLEY: That's a good question. What is it about fences? Sometimes a locked chain makes people on both sides of the fence just a little more comfortable. Why would that
NELL: Is there something about the Mrs. Dudley'll be waiting for you.
MR. DUDLEY: Mrs. Dudley'll be waiting for you.
NELL: Hello? Hello? Mrs. Dudley? Mrs. Dudley, are you here? Anybody?
NELL: She turns around, sets her suitcase on the marble floor. A short hallway straight ahead seems to let onto some vast space, dimly And then Nell hears a SOUND. Carrying through the empty halls from some distant place: a low, plaintive MOAN. Nell freezes. The MOANING stops. Nell strains her ears. And then the MOAN again. It comes from the short hallway ahead. Nell starts for it. The Moan stops.
NELL: Hello? Hello? Mrs. Dudley?
NELL: Mrs. Dudley?
MRS. DUDLEY: It's make the soup or answer the door. Can't do both.
NELL: Mrs. Dudley.
MRS. DUDLEY: So far.
NELL: I'm Eleanor Vance, I'm with
NELL: Hugh Crain.
MRS. DUDLEY: The Purple Room. You're going to be the first visitors that Hill House has had since Mister Crain
NELL: They're so beautiful. Aren't I've seen 'em. Lot to dust.
MRS. DUDLEY: I've seen 'em. Lot to dust.
NELL: Well, I've never lived with beauty. You must love working
MRS. DUDLEY: It's a job. I keep banker's hours. I set dinner on the dining room sideboard at six. You can serve yourselves. Breakfast is ready at nine. I don't wait on people. I don't stay after dinner. Not after it begins to get dark. I leave before dark comes. We live in town. Nine miles. So there won't be anyone around if you need help. We couldn't even hear you, in the Why would we
NELL: Why would we
MRS. DUDLEY: no one could. No one lives any nearer than town. No one will come any nearer than that. In the night. In the dark.
NELL: She backs away from the window, spins around and out of the darkness, powerful, mad, looms the visage of Hugh Crain. It is the painting. It is only from up here on the second floor with this curtain open that the FACE is visible in the late- day sunlight. Despite the artist's discretion, the lines in the man's skin, his eyes, his posture, cry of unspeakable sickness. Unconsciously, Nell takes a step back. In the far b.g., near the end of one of the halls, a DOOR stands open, the second or third set of doors in the Gothic Hallway left of the painting. Just as it starts to come into view, and we're starting to see it, it swings silently shut. But Nell has caught the movement out of the corner of her eye.
NELL: No response. She starts down the hall, slow at first, then faster. She passes door after door, shadow after shadow, and as she nears the end of the hall. there is no door here. Not within 20 feet of, where we thought we just saw it. A WHISPER. VOICES. Nell backs away. And then LAUGHTER. Behind her. It's coming from another stairwell. Very real. and very INT. BACK STAIRWAY - DAY Nell looks down from the top of the stairs. Below Mrs. Dudley and
THEO: You may think I have a sickness about packing, but asking people to help me shlep the stuff I take with me everywhere is a cheap and exploitative way of making new friends. My name's Theo.
NELL: I'm Eleanor but everyone calls me Nell. Eleanor Vance. Nell. I'm really glad you're here. Really. What a beautiful jacket. And what you're wearing, that's great, too.
THEO: And what you're wearing, that's great, too.
NELL: This? It's from a thrift shop.
THEO: What did it cost?
NELL: Fifteen dollars.
THEO: That'd be seventy in New York. You stole it!
NELL: ( embarrassed by the It's all I could afford.
THEO: Wait. You're not wearing that ironically? This is really you?
NELL: I don't know what you mean.
THEO: A week. You and I? We're going to have fun.
THEO: This is so twisted.
MRS. DUDLEY: I set dinner on the dining room sideboard at six.
MRS. DUDLEY: Breakfast is at nine. I don't stay after dinner. Not after it begins to get dark. I leave, before dark. So there won't be anyone around if you need We couldn't even hear you.
NELL: We couldn't even hear you.
MRS. DUDLEY: No one could. No one lives any nearer than town.
NELL: No one will come any nearer than
MRS. DUDLEY: In the night. In the dark. My room is right next door. I think we share a bathroom.
THEO: Don't worry, I probably won't be in here much. Light sleeper.
NELL: That's why we're here.
THEO: What do you do?
NELL: I'm between jobs right now. My last job. it. the person I was working for. the job ended. Over. So. And you?
THEO: That depends. I'm supposed to be an artist, but I've been really distracted from work by love. Do you know what I Not really.
NELL: Not really.
THEO: Don't tell me Boston is different from New York.
NELL: ( she knows this Ohh, sure, you have trouble with My boyfriend thinks so, my girlfriend doesn't. If we could all live together. but. they hate each other. It's hard to be Miss Perversity when you're the only one at the party. D'you know what I mean?
THEO: My boyfriend thinks so, my girlfriend doesn't. If we could all live together. but. they hate each other. It's hard to be Miss Perversity when you're the only one at the party. D'you know what I mean?
NELL: ( delighted ) A blank canvas! I could paint your portrait, directly on you. Or maybe not. So, you? Husbands? Boyfriends? Girlfriends? Where do you live?
THEO: ( delighted ) A blank canvas! I could paint your portrait, directly on you. Or maybe not. So, you? Husbands? Boyfriends? Girlfriends? Where do you live?
NELL: I don't have anyone. But I do have a little apartment of my own. It has a little flower garden. You can just see the ocean. At night, when the wind comes in just right, you can hear the buoys in the harbor.
THEO: That sounds really nice. You're lucky. But you know that. Come on, we've seen enough of the bedroom for now.
NELL: So much carving. It's everywhere. On everything.
THEO: Maybe you shouldn't touch
THEO: I know. Maybe we should wait for them
NELL: I know. Maybe we should wait for them
THEO: Which one? Pick any.
THEO: This is a serious question, but do you think the Dudleys ever make love in this room? They're alone in the house, no one watching. No one. no one watching. You can do what you want.
THEO: Here. Here. Here. Oh yes! Oh yes oh YES! Here! Can't you just see it?
NELL: INT. HALL OF MIRRORS - DUSK ( CONTINUOUS ) Through a narrow passageway, and large double doors they suddenly stand at the threshold of a fantastic ballroom lined with mirrors and chandeliers. Rows of mirror-coated octagonal pillars, rise to a vaulted, mirrored ceiling far above. With the door opening, there's a CLICK, and a mechanism of some sort is activated. The FLOOR begins to MOVE like a slow turntable. Theo comes right up, looks over Nell's shoulder. Nell steps out. She traipses out across the room, her million reflections waltzing with her into infinity. Theo dances after her. They dance, not quite together. Nell stops and pronounces:
NELL: I love this house. I really love this house.
THEO: ( gently, recognizes You're okay.
THEO: ( having fun ) Rats! We're rats in a maze! That's what this experiment is going to be!
NELL: We should go back.
NELL: Theo, I'm scared
SCREAMS!: INT. GRAND ENTRY - NIGHT The Grand Entry, where they bump into LUKE SANDERSON, 20's, charming and cynical.
LUKE: Hi, Luke Sanderson, bad sleeper, I'm your basic tosser-turner, and you are.
NELL: Uh. Nell Vance.
LUKE: And what kind of sleeper?
NELL: Well, I. uh.
LUKE: Obsessive worrier. Join the club. And you? I'd guess.
THEO: You'll never guess.
MARROW: There we are. You're Eleanor, you're Luke, you're Theo.
ALL: Hi. hello. Dr. Marrow.
MARROW: And this is Todd, he just came up.
TODD: Hi. I'm Todd Aubochon.
LUKE: ( 1950's alien Greetings fellow insomniac.
TODD: ( playing ) Greetings fellow sheep counter.
MARROW: And this is my assistant, Mary
LUKE: And Mary enters. Crossing the threshold, she catches her breath, and when she comes into the hall and sees everyone, she also sees the house in its detail. And she has a bad feeling. Marrow is still putting everyone at ease.
MARROW: Eleanor, how was the drive?
NELL: You can call me Nell, Dr. Marrow.
MARROW: Nell. Good enough. And I'm Jim.
NELL: I'm really. honored to be part of this study, Jim.
MARROW: Well. we're glad to have you.
MARROW: Have either of you seen David No, but Nell's been here longer than I have.
THEO: No, but Nell's been here longer than I have.
NELL: I only saw Theo drive up.
LUKE: Who's Watts?
MARROW: The man who completes the group. Well, why don't we get some dinner while we're waiting for him? Welcome to Hill House, everyone.
TODD: These old Victorian houses are great, aren't they?
LUKE: ( points to details;
MARROW: Nobody. A local mill owner, Hugh Crain, built it in 1830. He had no heirs, but he put the house in trust, and the farmland around it, with the stipulation that it never be altered or sold. Crain's executors made good investments and for the last hundred and twenty years, Hill House has taken care of itself.
TODD: So what's this study all about anyway? Mary described the kind of tests we'll be doing, but didn't fill us in on the big picture. She said you needed bad sleepers, but this wasn't about curing the problem.
MARY: I can tell you what this is about.
MARROW: Eat first, questions later, Mary,
NELL: Is something wrong?
MARY: No. Just. when I saw your picture I had a feeling about you, and now that I meet you, I know I was right.
NELL: Eat first, questions later.
MARY: Eat first, questions later.
LUKE: You know what I love about wine that comes in bottles like this?
TODD: Theo? It's your turn. The rest of you may hate your insomnia, but I find it the best time of the day for me. I'm alone. Nobody's talking to me but myself. My mind is racing with ideas, and I can think.
LUKE: Theo? It's your turn. The rest of you may hate your insomnia, but I find it the best time of the day for me. I'm alone. Nobody's talking to me but myself. My mind is racing with ideas, and I can think.
MARROW: Theo? It's your turn. The rest of you may hate your insomnia, but I find it the best time of the day for me. I'm alone. Nobody's talking to me but myself. My mind is racing with ideas, and I can think.
THEO: The rest of you may hate your insomnia, but I find it the best time of the day for me. I'm alone. Nobody's talking to me but myself. My mind is racing with ideas, and I can think.
LUKE: Nah, you're going crazy with doubt, all of your mistakes are coming back up the pipes, and it's worse than a nightmare. Excuse me.
LUKE: Don't give me that look, it's everybody's problem, we just have different variations, I for example. I fall asleep easily. But I wake up around two or three in the morning, every morning. It's that time of night that Fitzgerald called the deep dark night of the soul. I stare into. the abyss. Every night. It's the price I pay for being such a jolly fellow. Y usted?
MARY: I think I'd fall asleep easily, but just as I start to feel comfortable, I see things in the
MARY: I feel the presence of something watching me. It's not. scary. not by itself but. I don't want to go to sleep because I'm worried about the thing attacking me. So when I finally do fall asleep, I'm like a soldier who's fallen asleep at her post. I feel like I've betrayed myself. Nell?
NELL: All of you have such interesting No. Please, I know how that sounds but. You're all so articulate. You know how to talk. I feel like I'm here under false pretenses. It's silly, it's not like. well, all of you have trouble sleeping because you live in the world, and the world is complicated and scary, but nothing's ever happened to me. So I don't have a reason to sleep You wrote that you had trouble Yes, because someone was always keeping me awake. Ever since I was little. That was my job. I took care of my mother and I had to be there for her all night long, and she woke up all the time. And after she died, well, it's been a few months, but I still, I still wake up, it's. a I know we've only known each other a couple of hours, but I'm really glad to be with people who let me talk about this. I'm really happy to be here with you.
MARROW: You wrote that you had trouble Yes, because someone was always keeping me awake. Ever since I was little. That was my job. I took care of my mother and I had to be there for her all night long, and she woke up all the time. And after she died, well, it's been a few months, but I still, I still wake up, it's. a I know we've only known each other a couple of hours, but I'm really glad to be with people who let me talk about this. I'm really happy to be here with you.
NELL: Yes, because someone was always keeping me awake. Ever since I was little. That was my job. I took care of my mother and I had to be there for her all night long, and she woke up all the time. And after she died, well, it's been a few months, but I still, I still wake up, it's. a I know we've only known each other a couple of hours, but I'm really glad to be with people who let me talk about this. I'm really happy to be here with you.
MARROW: We're glad you're here. Why don't we move to another room?
MARY: It's an Erard. Late 1870s.
NELL: What's wrong?
MARY: The harp is out of tune.
MARROW: I'll have to count David Watts as a no-show. So let's start. Thank you, Mary. All right? So, to answer your earlier question, Todd, why are we here? What do we all need in life, what are the basics? We need food, we need water, we need sleep. Sleep. All of you resist it? Why? What does that mean? Why do we resist sleep? My field of study is the individual's psychology of emotion and So why did you need the Addam's Family mansion for a scientific I thought it best to be isolated, to be in a location with a definite sense of history, and I wanted to make sure that it wasn't so pleasant you'd all sleep too easily. You'll be taking a variety of tests, none of them harmful, and you've got the house, the grounds, and each other to keep you company.
LUKE: So why did you need the Addam's Family mansion for a scientific I thought it best to be isolated, to be in a location with a definite sense of history, and I wanted to make sure that it wasn't so pleasant you'd all sleep too easily. You'll be taking a variety of tests, none of them harmful, and you've got the house, the grounds, and each other to keep you company.
MARROW: I thought it best to be isolated, to be in a location with a definite sense of history, and I wanted to make sure that it wasn't so pleasant you'd all sleep too easily. You'll be taking a variety of tests, none of them harmful, and you've got the house, the grounds, and each other to keep you company.
THEO: When do we take the tests?
MARROW: Every day. Basically we'll be hanging out together like we have so far this evening.
MARROW: Also, there is no phone service to the House and no TV. I have the cell phone for emergencies. We'll begin the tests after breakfast
MARY: Dr. Marrow, what is this house? There was once a king who built a palace. The King's name was Hugh Crain. A hundred and thirty years ago, when the Merrimack Valley was the center of American industry, Hugh Crain made two hundred million dollars. That's forty- three billion dollars in today's money. He could have anything he wanted. And what he wanted, was Rene, his banker's beautiful daughter. Rene, and a house filled with children.
NELL: All the carvings.
MARROW: But there's a sad catch to the What happened?
MARY: What happened?
MARROW: There were no children. Rene died, and then Hugh Crain built all of this, and then he died. His heart was broken.
NELL: That's so sad.
MARY: I think there's more to the story. This house has its own music, Doctor Marrow, I can play it for you, I can hear it.
MARY: My eye. oh. my eye. my eye. oh. No. Oh Jesus.
TODD: Oh Jesus.
MARROW: Mary, let me see your eye.
NELL: Here, cover it. Don't let her touch it.
LUKE: Keep your head back, that's it.
MARROW: Here's my key to the gate. Call me the second you know anything.
LUKE: That could have been worse.
MARROW: As they turn back, Marrow taps Luke.
MARROW: Luke, can I talk to you?
LUKE: Because. well, I know I can trust you.
MARROW: Because. well, I know I can trust you.
LUKE: I've read your tests. There's something. I. I didn't tell you everyth1ng about the house, and about Hugh Crain. but I'm asking you not to repeat it.
MARROW: I've read your tests. There's something. I. I didn't tell you everyth1ng about the house, and about Hugh Crain. but I'm asking you not to repeat it.
LUKE: I can keep a secret. He said that Hugh Crain. Hugh Crain was a monster. He said that he was a brutal, horrible man. He told me that Crain drove his workers to early deaths. Crain had children chained to the looms in his mill. And listen to this: his beautiful Rene killed herself.
LUKE: He said that Hugh Crain. Hugh Crain was a monster. He said that he was a brutal, horrible man. He told me that Crain drove his workers to early deaths. Crain had children chained to the looms in his mill. And listen to this: his beautiful Rene killed herself.
THEO: And why didn't Marrow tell Doesn't he trust women? That A monster? But he built this for the woman he loved, like the Taj The Taj Mahal wasn't a palace, it was a tomb. Why didn't he tell He's trying to protect the experiment. Personally, I don't think he's got a large enough sample for valid results, but as long as the money's good, and the food is good, I'm in.
NELL: ( she's thinking A monster? But he built this for the woman he loved, like the Taj The Taj Mahal wasn't a palace, it was a tomb. Why didn't he tell He's trying to protect the experiment. Personally, I don't think he's got a large enough sample for valid results, but as long as the money's good, and the food is good, I'm in.
THEO: The Taj Mahal wasn't a palace, it was a tomb. Why didn't he tell He's trying to protect the experiment. Personally, I don't think he's got a large enough sample for valid results, but as long as the money's good, and the food is good, I'm in.
LUKE: He's trying to protect the experiment. Personally, I don't think he's got a large enough sample for valid results, but as long as the money's good, and the food is good, I'm in.
THEO: Nell, it was an accident.
MARROW: Icebreaker exercise conducted over dinner. Observed initial bonding among subjects and experimenter. After dinner first bland history of House relayed. Nell appears most susceptible to suggestive history. Luke, who tested at the bottom of the Levy-Mogel Confidence Reliability Scale was given the second part of the story. We should see some results tomorrow. Accident with harp, while unfortunate. complements the experimental fiction. Publish or perish.
THEO: Ever try putting your hair up in a French twist?
NELL: Sorry. I'm not used to being
THEO: You've been out of the world for a long time, haven't you?
NELL: Yes. I've missed it.
THEO: No. The world has missed you.
NELL: Good night, Theo.
THEO: You, too. Happy tossing and
NELL: Coming, Mother!
THEO: What is it!?
NELL: SILENCE. The bumping goes dead. Nell blinks, looks back at Theo. But Theo is looking at her hands. She looks up in horror at Nell. Their breath FOGS in the air. Nell holds her hand up in front of her, and as we watch HER HAIR PRICKLES
THEO: She grabs for the door and lets Luke in.
NELL: You really didn't hear anything?
LUKE: Oh, look! There he goes, ol' Hugh
LUKE: Do you need me anymore? Cause I'm going to bed. They can stay up talking another 45 minutes if they want, but I gotta try to get some Go ahead.
MARROW: Go ahead.
THEO: If this was some sort of joke, I'm going to kill him.
NELL: You know it wasn't a joke, Theo.
MARROW: The cold sensation. Who felt it Theo I think. You've asked us that three times, Doctor Marrow. What's going on?
NELL: Theo I think. You've asked us that three times, Doctor Marrow. What's going on?
MARROW: How do you feel about Luke's suggestion that it was just the old plumbing? Water hammer, something like that?
THEO: I did just take a bath. I don't I did just take a bath.
THEO: I did just take a bath.
NELL: Mother always banged on the wall when she needed me. The night she died. I heard her, but I pretended I didn't. I was just so sick of it all. And then the banging stopped. And in the morning. she was dead. This is the first I've ever said this to anyone. That was the job I had, Theo, it's the only job I've ever known, and I failed. I'm actually a bad person, Theo. The world doesn't need me.
THEO: Oh, Nell. Eleven years. With all due respect to your mother who I'm sure was a saint, I'd have called Doctor Kevorkian, if not for her, for me.
NELL: Good night, Theo.
GIRL VOICE: Nell's eyes open. And like that, the pillowcase deflates, the air rushes up the curtain to the window, and is gone. Nell sits up, looks about her. Everything seems normal. Just her sheets, just the curtains, but on the headboard remain the carved faces. Benevolent. Nell settles back down on her pillow with a sense of peace.
NELL: For an American you do a good imitation of the British at their most apologetic. Pardon me. Excuse me, sorry,
MARROW: For an American you do a good imitation of the British at their most apologetic. Pardon me. Excuse me, sorry,
NELL: Am I that bad?
THEO: Well this is a cozy breakfast.
MARROW: Good morning, Theo. Luke.
LUKE: After I went to bed, the second time, after the. noise. I had the best night's sleep of my life.
NELL: Yes. I feel realy rested, too. I guess. Oh, your hair! It looks Your makeup too.
THEO: I guess. Oh, your hair! It looks Your makeup too.
MARROW: Eat your breakfast, Theo, then we'll get started on the tests.
NELL: The children. The children Hugh Crain built the house for. The children he never had.
LUKE: Come on. These are the typically sentimental gestures of a depraved Theo was working in the dining room. She's probably done by now. You finish?
NELL: Couldn't get the last ones. You?
LUKE: I did okay. We could do this stuff anywhere. I don't know what he's up to yet. But like I said, that's the fun. It has something to do with this
NELL: There's someone in there! There's someone in there in the fireplace!
NELL: Marrow sticks his head into the fireplace. For a long moment, nothing happens. IN THE FIREPLACE: pitch darkness. Marrow feels up the chimney. AND THEN SOMETHING SWINGS DOWN RIGHT IN FRONT OF HIS FACE! Marrow doesn't flinch. He FLINGS back the screen, revealing the only things in the fireplace: two massive andirons, and the still-swinging FLUE. It's cast-iron, forged in the shape of a LION'S HEAD. Luke throws back the other screen. Theo comes over. Nell follows. There's nothing else in the fireplace. Luke and Theo stare at Nell. Marrow squats to study the hearth. The large iron ASH-DROP is coated in soot. Not a mark on it. He opens it. Inside, a glimpse of ASHES and CHARRED WOOD. Marrow stands, looks at Nell. Marrow looks at her, not sure what to believe. Nell turns to Luke and Theo for help. Not from that corner. Then Nell remembers, reaches into her pocket and produces the KEYS. She holds them up to
LUKE: Who drives a Toyota?
THEO: Maybe they're Mary's.
MARROW: Mary came with me.
NELL: When I first got here I saw a gray car pull up. I thought it was one of us.
NELL: This is my car.
MARROW: And those are Luke's and mine.
LUKE: There's a carriage house around
LUKE: Well, this lot is full!
THEO: He must have left. Didn't like the looks of the place or How could he have left without his Two sets. I don't know. Maybe they're not even his.
NELL: How could he have left without his Two sets. I don't know. Maybe they're not even his.
THEO: Two sets. I don't know. Maybe they're not even his.
LUKE: Then he's got to be in the
MARROW: No answer. The statuary peers down on Nell. Dead faces on busts. Blind marble eyes.
LUKE: Watts! Oh Watts! Here Wattsy.
MARROW: Watts! Can you hear us?
THEO: What's his first name?
NELL: What's his first name?
THEO: David? David Watts? Can you hear us? David! Daviiiiid!
NELL: David? David Watts? Can you hear us? David! Daviiiiid!
MARROW: Do you know who these keys belong I was expecting another guest yesterday. A man, David Watts. Did you see him?
MRS. DUDLEY: I was expecting another guest yesterday. A man, David Watts. Did you see him?
MARROW: I was expecting another guest yesterday. A man, David Watts. Did you see him?
MRS. DUDLEY: Is your husband around? I'd like
MARROW: Is your husband around? I'd like
MARROW: Thank you.
NELL: Maybe he never came in. If he'd come in, he would have left his bags at the door, right? Or maybe he got here early, and went for a walk, and fell. Maybe he's Oh my God, what is it? Oh, the smell. ohhh.
THEO: Maybe he never came in. If he'd come in, he would have left his bags at the door, right? Or maybe he got here early, and went for a walk, and fell. Maybe he's Oh my God, what is it? Oh, the smell. ohhh.
THEO: ( looks to Nell for Is it over?
NELL: No, it's getting worse.
MARROW: Nell! What's wrong?
NELL: That smell. oh, God.
MARROW: What did it smell like?
NELL: It was very specific.
MARROW: ( so tell me. ) All right.
NELL: In the bathroom in my mother's room, the toilet was next to an old wooden table. It smelled like that wood.
MARROW: So. smell. is. Smell is the sense that triggers the most powerful memories. And a memory can trigger a smell.
NELL: I wasn't thinking about my mother's bathroom.
MARROW: What happened after you smelled I looked at Theo. She had a look on her face.
NELL: I looked at Theo. She had a look on her face.
MARROW: Like she smelled it too?
NELL: And then what happened?
MARROW: And then what happened?
NELL: I got more scared.
MARROW: I'm sorry. I'm messing up the No you're not. Something moved you. You saw something.
NELL: I'm sorry. I'm messing up the No you're not. Something moved you. You saw something.
MARROW: No you're not. Something moved you. You saw something.
NELL: I don't know. Maybe I. I haven't been with people in a long time.
MARROW: I really haven't either. I mean, I'm surrounded by people, day in, dayout. Students, But most of the time, even when I'm with them. you know. It's all about power, there's not much room for actually getting to know someone or having someone getting to know you. You have to see something.
NELL: My name.
NELL: Welcome Home Eleanor. Welcome Home? I've never been here. Who did this?
LUKE: It's somebody's idea of a joke.
NELL: Who did this? Why are you doing this? I don't know any of you. You don't know me. Why are you doing this to me?
LUKE: I didn't do it.
THEO: You could have.
LUKE: So could you! Is this some fucked up idea of art, putting someone else's name to a painting?
THEO: Theo. Did you?
NELL: Theo. Did you?
THEO: Maybe you did it yourself.
NELL: I don't know. You've been alone for a long time, maybe you want Maybe he did it.
THEO: I don't know. You've been alone for a long time, maybe you want Maybe he did it.
MARROW: I didn't. You know that, Nell.
NELL: I don't know anything. Whoever did this, please, just. just say so. just. please. this is cruel. Don't be cruel to me. I can't stand it. You don't know
NELL: Are you coming to confess?
MARROW: I wish I were. I wish I had done it, then I could confess and you'd be at peace. That great moral philosopher Frank Sinatra once said to someone he loved, I wish you had an enemy, so I could beat him up.
NELL: Let's say it wasn't you. Who did I don't know.
MARROW: I don't know.
NELL: It was a stupid thing to do.
MARROW: It was.
NELL: ( for the absurdity Welcome Home.
MARROW: You'll never see it again. Mr. Dudley's taking care of it. I'm sorry, Nell. Can I show you something you'd like to see?
NELL: ( still too shaky
NELL: Oh. it's so beautiful. Violets. Somebody must've died
MR. DUDLEY: That's where she hanged herself.
NELL: MR. DUDLEY
MR. DUDLEY: Rene Crain. Up there. Rope. Ship's hawser. Hard to tie. Don't know how she got it.
MARROW: That's enough, Mister Dudley.
MR. DUDLEY: She stepped off the platform. They had long skirts in those Thank you, Mister Dudley, House is full of stories. If you know how to read these things, it's an open book. Just a different library than the kind you're used to.
MARROW: Thank you, Mister Dudley, House is full of stories. If you know how to read these things, it's an open book. Just a different library than the kind you're used to.
MR. DUDLEY: House is full of stories. If you know how to read these things, it's an open book. Just a different library than the kind you're used to.
NELL: MR. DUDLEY
MR. DUDLEY: Why'd she kill herself?
NELL: MR. DUDLEY ( what other reason is there? )
MR. DUDLEY: ( what other reason She was unhappy.
NELL: MR. DUDLEY ( he's off )
MR. DUDLEY: Can't say. Haven't been here that Well, it's Labor Day, gotta get to
MARROW: That's a horrible story. You're smiling. I was just thinking how happy I am right now. All my life, I've been waiting for an adventure. And I thought, oh, I'll never have that, adventures are for people who travel long distances, that's for soldiers, that's for the women that the bullfighters fall in love with. And here I am, and something is happening to me. Strange noises in the night. Paintings are calling to me. And all it cost to get there was five gallons of gas. I'm getting my
NELL: I was just thinking how happy I am right now. All my life, I've been waiting for an adventure. And I thought, oh, I'll never have that, adventures are for people who travel long distances, that's for soldiers, that's for the women that the bullfighters fall in love with. And here I am, and something is happening to me. Strange noises in the night. Paintings are calling to me. And all it cost to get there was five gallons of gas. I'm getting my
MARROW: Someone is playing with you.
NELL: I don't know.
MARROW: I don't know.
NELL: It doesn't matter. Even if they're tormenting me, someone wants me. What I do with this is up to me. I can be a victim, or I can be a volunteer. And I want to be the volunteer. Hugh Crain. Can't seem to get away from him.
MARROW: What is that tune?
NELL: I don't know. A lullaby I guess. My mother used to hum it to me. And her mother before that, and so Hugh Crain, would you care to
NELL: Only two days. The blest are the dead / Who see not the sight / Of their own A father's joy unjustly snatch'd by a jealous God. Suffer the little children unto
NELL: Crain's study. Erin, Peter and Sean and Emily and Elizabeth. who are you? And you? What happened to you? You died. How did you die?
THEO: That's so sad.
NELL: There's hundreds of them. This must be a record of the children who died at the mills, like Luke Before he painted your name over Mister Crain. You really think it was Luke?
THEO: Before he painted your name over Mister Crain. You really think it was Luke?
NELL: You really think it was Luke?
THEO: Well, it wasn't me. Mister Dudley had to clean it and he knows that he's in charge of all the messes so why would he make more work for himself and. You said the Good Doctor was with I don't know what to think Just think about one thing right now: What color?
NELL: ( pondering ) I don't know what to think Just think about one thing right now: What color?
THEO: Just think about one thing right now: What color?
NELL: I've never had a pedicure before.
THEO: ( into this now ) What else? See, isn't this better than a hit on the head?
NELL: ( into this now ) What else? See, isn't this better than a hit on the head?
NELL: I'm sorry I was mad at you, Theo.
THEO: Me too. Although I learned one thing about you, that you don't know about yourself. You can be a pretty decent bitch.
NELL: I'll take that as a compliment. In the city, what kind of place do you live in?
THEO: I have a loft.
NELL: A loft. That's a lot of room for one person. Probably. Maybe there's room for.
THEO: You want to move to New York, you want to move in with me?
NELL: I don't know, you know.
THEO: My place isn't like yours, Nell, it doesn't have a view of sea. It doesn't have a view of anything. What's interesting about the way I live is what goes on inside the walls. Living with me. My boundaries aren't very well defined, Nell. Do you know what I I'm trying. Have you ever kept something to yourself because you were afraid it'd ruin things.
NELL: I'm trying. Have you ever kept something to yourself because you were afraid it'd ruin things.
THEO: All the time. I better go to bed.
THEO: Are you sure?
NELL: I think so.
THEO: INT. NELL'S ROOM - NIGHT Nell closes the door and sits at the vanity brushing out her hair for bed. Her motions are languid in the light of the single small lamp, off-balance with the wine. Her HAIR brushes out in long, even strokes. The brush moves through it, lifting it and letting it fall. IN THE MIRROR the brush draws through Nell's hair, but as it does, the hair divides in its wake LIKE FINGERS RUNNING THROUGH it. Nell freezes. She's not sure what she just saw. She runs the brush through again, and again it is as if something pulls it back from her head. Again fast she runs the brush through her hair, and this time the hair SPINS UP IN A KNOT. Nell flinches, dropping the brush, knocking the shade of the lamp on the vanity a-wobbling. She's out of the chair in a flash, grabbing her own hair, staring at the space behind her. Nothing there. A beat. She steadies herself, feeling the alcohol. Gets control. The Tiffany lamp rocks back and forth, crystal beads shimmering. The light plays across the fireplace and mantle on the wall. And something there catches her eye. Nell feels her way across the room, not sure of what she's seeing. Over the sound of the wind outside, there's something at the very highest edge of hearing. She stops five feet from the mantle. The swaying light catches the rich tones of wood. Then darkens. Illuminates it again. Darkens. The carvings of the playing CHILDREN in the wood SEEM TO MOVE. Nell stares in drunken fascination. And as the first fear begins to rise in her throat, the wind dies down and in its place there is the FAINTEST TRACE OF CHILDREN'S LAUGHTER. Nell's reaction changes. to awe. Tentative, her hand goes out, shaking. and touches the mantle. It is hard and still. No movement whatsoever. Silence. But the FACES engraved in the wood all seem to be peering up at her, hands outstretched for her, hopeful.
NELL: Who is doing this to me?
THEO: Oh, God, your breath. It's here.
NELL: Theo still SCREAMING, lying on her back before the fireplace, rams her feet against it. The screen HAMMERS at Nell and Theo. They can't run or it'll get out. Theo's screaming is suddenly drowned out by a HORRIFYING, INHUMAN SOUND from inside the fireplace. Theo's scream goes dead in breath-stealing horror. Nell recovers. The screen punches out at them, denting. And then all the air in the room seems to be SUCKED into the fireplace in one THUMP. The door to the bathroom slams. It's gone. They sit there in the darkness, panting.
HELP!: Theo still SCREAMING, lying on her back before the fireplace, rams her feet against it. The screen HAMMERS at Nell and Theo. They can't run or it'll get out. Theo's screaming is suddenly drowned out by a HORRIFYING, INHUMAN SOUND from inside the fireplace. Theo's scream goes dead in breath-stealing horror. Nell recovers. The screen punches out at them, denting. And then all the air in the room seems to be SUCKED into the fireplace in one THUMP. The door to the bathroom slams. It's gone. They sit there in the darkness, panting.
THEO: Marrow said the same thing as last night, he says that he checked with Mrs. Dudley. And he says that she told him that all the fireplaces in the West Wing connect to the main chimney. He says that he thinks that the flue was open, and with the windstorm, he says that what probably happened was some kind of freak air current
NELL: What do you think?
LUKE: ( lowers his voice ) Don't tell the Professor; he'd probably throw me out. But test taking is one of the ways I've been supporting myself. I volunteer for every paid study that they offer. Of course straight psych stuff doesn't pay as much as the pharmaceuticals do, or a good wound study. Check it A thousand dollars each. Am I sick? Yes. Do you know why I only date freshmen? By the time they're sophomores, they've figured me out.
THEO: ( get back on track! ) Mister very talky, would you please say what it is about this study that bothers you?
LUKE: The whole thing feels like experimental misdirection. Like he says it's about one thing, a psychological profile of environmental effects on insomnia. and that'd be a legitimate study, but I think that we've been subjected to an academic bait and switch; he's really looking at something else.
NELL: No. No. Jim's not doing these things.
THEO: Then who is? Come on, Nell. Deep down, if you really thought it wasn't Jim, why wouldn't you be leaving right this second? Why wouldn't you be afraid? Really Because I don't want to ruin things. Because home is where the heart is.
NELL: Because I don't want to ruin things. Because home is where the heart is.
NELL: Jim? I'm done. .the hallway discussion about last night's fireplace incident concluded at three a.m. Nell continues her alienation of the other subjects and the experimenter. It remains unclear whether she truly believes she did not deface the painting. Interview with the subject in greenhouse yesterday to ascertain the extent of her self-delusion was inconclusive due to her efforts to sexualize encounter with experimenter.
NELL: How can he think I'm doing this! No. No, I couldn't do those things: I'm not making it up. His second wife. There was a second wife? Carolyn. She was pregnant.
NELL: Theo! Jim! Help!
NELL: The house. it's a maze, that's how you designed it, didn't you, Mister Crain? So wherever one of your little guests went, the house brought them here. It's designed to make you come here. But why? Oh, no. Oh. no. no, no. not that. Oh no. Ohhhhhhhhh!
MARROW: Get a blanket!
THEO: It's okay. we're all here. What's happening to her?
MARROW: She's in shock. Come on.
NELL: After Rene. after she killed herself. he turned into a monster. He did fill the house with children. he did, but. they weren't laughing.
THEO: Nell, what happened?
NELL: Carolyn showed me where she hid him, hid him with all the ones he Nell. please, Nell. take a deep breath.
MARROW: Nell. please, Nell. take a deep breath.
NELL: And they're all locked together in here. and he won't let go of
MARROW: Luke rushes in with a blanket. Theo covers Nell and then holds her, Nell manages to focus on him, her breath laboring.
NELL: Hugh Crain. He's in the house. He's still here.
THEO: Marrow sees the panic working on her, gives her a stern look:
MARROW: Theo! You too. Listen to me.
MARROW: Nell, you have to hear me. Let me explain what's happening to you. You're participating in a study on I've given you a powerful suggestion that you're in a haunted house. I picked Hill House because it fits the expectations. It was my. it was my theater, my stage.
LUKE: Modelling small-group dynamics in the formation of narrative hallucinations. You brought us here to scare us. Insomnia, that was just a decoy issue. You're Is this true? I've been I hadn't done a study of how group fear affects individual performance. Mass hysteria is like a story, Nell. A communal story. Someone starts it. Then we all add a little more to it. And then for some reason no one knows how we start believing it. This story shapes what we see and hear. We interpret everything through it, make it fit the story. I started our story when I gave you the history of Hill House. You've added to it. That's what this experiment has all been about. That's what it was about, the experiment's over. I'm pulling the plug. This is my It's not real? Crain? He's not
NELL: Is this true? I've been I hadn't done a study of how group fear affects individual performance. Mass hysteria is like a story, Nell. A communal story. Someone starts it. Then we all add a little more to it. And then for some reason no one knows how we start believing it. This story shapes what we see and hear. We interpret everything through it, make it fit the story. I started our story when I gave you the history of Hill House. You've added to it. That's what this experiment has all been about. That's what it was about, the experiment's over. I'm pulling the plug. This is my It's not real? Crain? He's not
MARROW: I hadn't done a study of how group fear affects individual performance. Mass hysteria is like a story, Nell. A communal story. Someone starts it. Then we all add a little more to it. And then for some reason no one knows how we start believing it. This story shapes what we see and hear. We interpret everything through it, make it fit the story. I started our story when I gave you the history of Hill House. You've added to it. That's what this experiment has all been about. That's what it was about, the experiment's over. I'm pulling the plug. This is my It's not real? Crain? He's not
NELL: It's not real? Crain? He's not
MARROW: Your fear of him was real. That's all the ghost anyone needs.
THEO: How could you do this to people?
NELL: This is real, I'm not making it up! Theo, you saw it! You were there the banging and last night. You, you all saw the Nell, it makes sense. It all makes sense. You and I, we were scaring each other, working each other up.
THEO: Nell, it makes sense. It all makes sense. You and I, we were scaring each other, working each other up.
NELL: but the painting! I know you think I did that. I didn't! Go to the great hall and look in the fireplace!
MARROW: Why would we want to do that, Because that's where he burned them up, the child laborers from his mills! Because that's where their bones are! He killed hundreds. He took them here and he killed them. Their bones are in the fireplace!
NELL: Because that's where he burned them up, the child laborers from his mills! Because that's where their bones are! He killed hundreds. He took them here and he killed them. Their bones are in the fireplace!
MARROW: There are no bones in the fireplace. Luke and I looked in it yesterday. There's some old charred wood in the ash drop Nell! If we look in that fireplace it'll just make you more upset. And when there are no bones there, you'll say they got up and walked away.
NELL: Oh, God, you're not going to Aw, shhh Nell, shhh.
THEO: Aw, shhh Nell, shhh.
MARROW: There has to be Monster in the Labyrinth. We make them up. That's how we deal with the things in everyday life that are too terrible to deal with. Like losing someone. Like being alone. I'm sorry, Nell. I'm really, really sorry I did this to you.
LUKE: Sometimes saying you're sorry is just not enough.
NELL: Don't leave me.
THEO: I'm going to stay with you until you fall asleep. And then I'm going to get some brandy.
NELL: I don't think I want any.
THEO: I do.
MARROW: I gave my key to the gate to Todd, but the Dudleys'll be here in the Do we still get paid for the week?
LUKE: Do we still get paid for the week?
MARROW: You get your money. Where did she come up with it? How did she put it all together?
LUKE: Is that the question of compassion or science?
MARROW: It's a question.
LUKE: She got the child labor stuff from
THEO: I. I was playing games with her. Big city games. I was bad. And you, Doctor Morrow, you broke her heart.
MARROW: Is she asleep?
THEO: Yes. But I promised I wouldn't let her alone the whole night.
MARROW: ( answering the Hello? Yes, this is Dr. Marrow. ( beat ) Oh, hello. Thank you for returning the call. ( beat ) No. You mean he hasn't returned? ( long beat ) No, we haven't seen him. ( beat ) Can you tell me, what sort of car does he drive? ( beat, reacting ) A Toyota.
THEO: We're fucked. We're in a haunted house and we can't get out until the morning.
LUKE: You don't really believe it's haunted. Do you believe in That depends on your definition of ghosts. I'm going to check on her, and then I'm going to stay All night?
THEO: That depends on your definition of ghosts. I'm going to check on her, and then I'm going to stay All night?
LUKE: All night?
THEO: You want company?
LUKE: You want company?
THEO: Maybe someday.
NELL: Nell reaches out under the covers. Her HAND is suddenly grasped. THE EYE on the wall stares. The babbling, liquid, deep voice mounts, and as the shadows move ever so slowly, the EYE seems to roam over the room. And then the babbling stops. Nell grimaces in pain. She tries to look at Theo, but it's far too DARK right there beside her. In the place of the babbling, another sound. High-pitched, drawn- out. A CHILD'S CRY. Nell reacts. The cry wails louder, coming through the wall. It's a wail of agony. A wail not of this earth. Nell struggles, racked between the pain in her hand and the tortured child's cry.
HERE!: The EYE focusses on her. Dead on her. Nell stops. And with sudden violence, she's WRENCHED out of the bed by whatever's beside her. Nell hits the floor with a scream. She grabs at the table on this side of the bed, pulling a lamp down on her, yanking at its chain. The room FLASHES into brilliance. Nell stands up, panting. There is nothing in the room. No Theo. She looks at her hand. The eye on the wall is gone. Nell snaps around. There on the window, SPREADING before her eyes the frost on the glass is melting into a HORRIFYING FACE. The face of CRAIN. Nell recoils in prickling fear. Living fear. Then her fear turns to RAGE. In the blink of an eye there's a heavy ashtray in her hand, and it's flying at the window. The window BASHES out into the night, the face vanishing with a HOWL of air.
THEO: INT. NELL'S HALLWAY - NORTH WING - NIGHT A panicked Theo runs out of Nell's room into the hallway.
THEO: Luke. Jim.!
NELL: Why do you want
NELL: I'm here. I'm here. I'm coming to you, I'm coming to you.
MARROW: Nell! Don't move.
LUKE: It's not going to hold your Just stay there, Nell! Damn it.
MARROW: Just stay there, Nell! Damn it.
LUKE: The sudden shift is too much for the old stairs. The support rods CREASE and then the whole enormous column of steel from where Marrow is standing to the ground BURSTS from its supports. Luke shoves Theo aside, and the bottom half of the stairs spirals out in a massive, deafening COLLAPSE. Marrow's cellular phone falls out of his pocket and shatters in hundred pieces across the floor. The top half of the stairs remains, still hanging from the ceiling. Nell grips the railing at the top. Marrow hangs there by one hand over the razor tangle of steel below. He flails out for the other stairway, swings himself over to it. It takes a moment for him to realize he almost just died. A moment of paralysis. This is no longer an experiment. No longer fun and There she is. Marrow forces himself to start climbing the shaky stairs. Luke and Theo watch from below, tense. Then he's there. Nell stands a mere arm's length from him on the other side of the railing. Nell barely seems to hear him. Instead she looks at the DEFORMING SUPPORT RODS around her. We HEAR the voices of the CHILDREN, calling to her. Theo, on the ground, calls up to Nell.
MARROW: Nell? Are you up there? Come on, Nell. You have to climb over and step back on the stairs. Nell! Now!
THEO: Nell, go with him! Just go with
NELL: The children want me. They're calling me. They need me.
MARROW: Nell. You will come here now.
NELL: And as Marrow falls forward, pushed by the force behind him, Nell grabs him. he is caught on the rail. As she has reached out to him, now she has fallen into thin air, and she falls towards Marrow, and they hold each other. She has a hand. then a foot. she slips. she holds on again. and reaches the staircase. She grabs A moment's peace. and then a new disaster: with a metallic POP POP POP the support rods spring from their anchors and the rest of the stairwell next to them drops to the ground in a catastrophic shattering of sound. Marrow looks behind him, to whatever it was that Nell saw over his shoulder. He looks back at her. Her eyes are closed, she won't open them.
NO!: And as Marrow falls forward, pushed by the force behind him, Nell grabs him. he is caught on the rail. As she has reached out to him, now she has fallen into thin air, and she falls towards Marrow, and they hold each other. She has a hand. then a foot. she slips. she holds on again. and reaches the staircase. She grabs A moment's peace. and then a new disaster: with a metallic POP POP POP the support rods spring from their anchors and the rest of the stairwell next to them drops to the ground in a catastrophic shattering of sound. Marrow looks behind him, to whatever it was that Nell saw over his shoulder. He looks back at her. Her eyes are closed, she won't open them.
MARROW: We're going down the stairs, Nell, I'm taking you down the stairs.
THEO: She needs help.
MARROW: I'll take her with me to the University tomorrow. I can't believe I read the test wrong. I didn't see anything that looked like she was suicidal.
LUKE: You used the wrong test.
THEO: ( indignant ) Will the two of you shut up! God damn it! Maybe the tests were right, Marrow. She's sensitive, she's vulnerable, but I don't think she's suicidal and I didn't have to test her. Maybe she wasn't trying to kill herself. Maybe she was really scared. Maybe she really heard voices.
LUKE: You're not telling us something.
MARROW: Watts. Those were his keys Nell found. His roommate called and said Watts left when he was supposed to. I think he's here.
THEO: He's wandering around the house, and Nell heard him. She thought it was ghosts. Let's go look for him again.
MARROW: No. If he's lost somewhere in the house. he'll have to stay lost until tomorrow, until the night is over. What we have to do now is be together, with Nell.
LUKE: Oh my God.
MARROW: What is it? Help me!
THEO: Oh, Jesus. Wait a second! Wait!
MARROW: Wait a second! Wait!
LUKE: Luke goes out. But Nell pauses, stopping Theo with her. The House is quiet. Marrow's hand still outstretched. Nell looks around the room. There are heads everywhere, faces: animal heads, humans, gods, all staring from the woodwork, the carpets everything. All turning to her. Theo looks around, but can't see what Nell is seeing. Nell's breath comes faster, disoriented, yet aware.
NELL: They're all in here. All the ones he killed. They're just children! We have to help them!
THEO: ( to Marrow ) Come on! Why are we waiting?
THEO: Oh my God we need to call someone?
MARROW: You okay?
NELL: Why did you bring me here? Why did you call me and tell me to look in the paper for the ad?
MARROW: Nell, what are you talking about? I never called you.
NELL: But you told me to look in the paper! You told me I'd be Nell, the first time I ever spoke with you in person was the night we met here.
MARROW: Nell, the first time I ever spoke with you in person was the night we met here.
NELL: Then who called me?
THEO: how much is this car worth?
LUKE: how much is this car worth?
LUKE: Get the hell out of the way!
THEO: Hurry. The gas! Luke. The gas!
LUKE: I'm okay. Okay. Just my chest. Just my wind knocked out. Sorry about your car, Nell.
MARROW: Oh, no.
THEO: I'm sure she went back to her
THEO: Was sure she'd be in here.
LUKE: ( worried ) Where in the hell can she be.
MARROW: Oh no.
THEO: They reach the transept, turn down it toward the statue of Crain at the end looming white in the dusk. Dead silence. Then Marrow SCREAMS. Under a thin layer of ice underneath the giant hand that protrudes from the pond we find Watt's body, as if the hand wants to keep him there forever. Marrow did find his Watts, a horrifying sight.
MARROW: Oh my God it's Watts.
THEO: We can't stay here looking for her. She doesn't want to be
LUKE: We can't stay here looking for her. She doesn't want to be
THEO: And there, hunched over something turning a CREAKING CRANK of some sort, is Nell.
MARROW: Nell straightens from whatever it is she was doing and turns to them. Theo steps toward her, afraid for her.
THEO: What'd you come back for, babe?
NELL: Just had to be sure.
LUKE: Come on, Jesus! Let's go!
THEO: Let's go, hon. Don't you want to go back to your little apartment where you can hear the buoy out in the harbor when the wind is just
NELL: Oh, Theo. You know I don't have an apartment.
THEO: Then let's go get you one.
NELL: Don't worry about me, Theo. I'm wanted. Right here. I'm home. After all. I'm family.
MARROW: My mother used to hum this to me. Like her mother hummed it to her. And my great grandmother Carolyn hummed it to her. I have to stay. You better go. I could explain it, but you'd never
NELL: My mother used to hum this to me. Like her mother hummed it to her. And my great grandmother Carolyn hummed it to her. I have to stay. You better go. I could explain it, but you'd never
MARROW: Come on.
NELL: Please, Nell, just see us out.
THEO: Please, Nell, just see us out.
NELL: In the night. .In the dark.
LUKE: No you bastard! Break!
NELL: It's not safe for you anymore. The children need me, and Crain is doing everything he can to keep me from them.
MARROW: Come on.
LUKE: Watch out!
THEO: Theo watches the door behind them. Luke pries at the inch of metal between him and freedom. It won't break.
MARROW: They don't open! Oh Jesus my hand.
NELL: Give me your shoelace.
MARROW: What'll happen to us, Nell?
NELL: Nothing, if you leave right now. There's a war going on all around us. Don't get in the way, please.
LUKE: Shit! All right, you
LUKE: Maybe this'll get your attention!
MARROW: Before anyone can stop him, he LIGHTS a towering TAPESTRY on fire. He races from one to the next, lighting them. Theo and Nell help Marrow up, back away as Luke shoots by. All the tapestries are ON FIRE, blazing up like torches. At last, his rage spent, heaving, he moves to join the others at the center of the room. They stare at him, appalled, afraid. Knowing he has done something wrong. Luke stops. Maybe fifteen feet away. He sees their expressions.
LUKE: Nell looks over at the burning tapestries. Heat sears the stone, blackens the carved figures in the woodwork. The ruddy light casts deep shadows throughout the room. But there's no need. The tapestries are consuming themselves too fast to ignite the walls or ceiling. They all realize it. As the last flaming scraps of cloth fall to the floor and go out, there is utter silence.
NELL: ( to the house, to No! No! Let them go!
MARROW: BANG. The blood-splattered LION'S HEAD drops open. Luke's head falls out. Theo SCREAMS and SCREAMS again. Nell backs away with Marrow, almost has the presence of mind to drag them away, but CLANG! The ASH DROP OPENS. The sudden sound stops them in their As they watch, it's as if the House INHALES. And BOOM! Out of the ash drop EXPLODES a hail of BONES, SKULLS, FLYING ASH. Nell, Theo and Marrow back up toward the Grand Staircase as TONS OF INCINERATED HUMAN REMAINS vomit from the fireplace, blasting across the floor, knocking over furniture with shocking violence. Skulls bounce over wood. Hundreds of them. Theo and Marrow cover their faces as shattered bits of bone, loose teeth pelt them. Nell is immune. They run up the Grand Staircase toward the top and finally it can't reach them anymore.
THEO: Oh God, we can't get out!
MARROW: Nell, what do we do?
NELL: He played hide and seek with the children. That's how he built the
MARROW: We can't hide in here! We won't make it til morning.
NELL: I know. No, no, you leave them alone!
NELL: The FOOTSTEPS upstairs come faster; whatever's up there moving better, more naturally. Theo and Marrow turn LEFT through an archway. Nell looks back at the ceiling. The thing's moving fast. She dodges toward the archway where Theo and Marrow went, and STOPS. It's a wall. Solid wall. There's no archway here! Nell backs away. Alone. The House has separated them. Nell tries to open any of the hall doors, but they are all locked. There's no other way then going back.
NELL: Jim! Theo!
THEO: Nell! There you
NELL: Nooo, not them! Is this where she bashed your brains in? When you came in the door? I bet that was the last thing you expected. Right? From Carolyn? You thought, oh, Carolyn, I've taken it all out of her, you thought, Oh, Carolyn, she's no threat. Carolyn. Great Grandma Carolyn. Did you know that? She found out what you did, and she knew there was only one way to stop you. And she stopped you, so you couldn't torture anymore of the living. But you wouldn't even let go of the dead, would you? Well, now I'm here. They called me. Did you know that? They've been crying out for help for a long time. And I heard them. And I won't let you hurt them Come on, Hugh Crain, you know what to do. We've both been here
THEO: Marrow gets up off the floor in terror and awe, his life his beliefs changed forever. He walks over to Nell and feels her pulse, knowing it is a useless gesture as Theo softly moans over Nell. And as the camera pans up across the entry door, we see a new carving in the sculpted doors. It is a woman and as we move in we can see that she wears the same necklace as Nell.
NELL!: Marrow gets up off the floor in terror and awe, his life his beliefs changed forever. He walks over to Nell and feels her pulse, knowing it is a useless gesture as Theo softly moans over Nell. And as the camera pans up across the entry door, we see a new carving in the sculpted doors. It is a woman and as we move in we can see that she wears the same necklace as Nell.
MRS. DUDLEY: ( her final verdict ) City people. You find out what you wanted to know, mister?
MR. DUDLEY: You find out what you wanted to know, mister?
THEO: I'm not going back to New York City. I'm going to find an apartment with a little flower garden, where you can just see the ocean and at night, when the wind comes in just right, you can hear the sound of the harbor. What about you?
MARROW: I'm a scientist. I just conducted an experiment. Now I have to write it up.
THEO: But the experiment was a failure.
MARROW: Was it?
MRS. DUDLEY: ( her final verdict ) City people. You find out what you wanted to know, mister?
MR. DUDLEY: You find out what you wanted to know, mister?
PRINTER: ( has to shout ) First copy! ( reads ) This book is dedicated to Eleanor Vance, Luke Sanderson, Rene Crain and Carolyn Crain. ( to Marrow ) They'll be happy to see this. Their names in a book, it kind of makes them immortal, doesn't it?
MARROW: In a way.
THEO: Nell?. Nell?
