LITTLE GIRL: Why did you do that?
LITTLE BOY: Because you smell like dog poo.
LITTLE GIRL: Made. ( SOB ) Of. ( SOB ) Dog. ( SOB ) Poo.
MOM: Honey, do you know why that little boy did those things? And said those things?
MOM: That little boy is doing those terrible things because he HAS A CRUSH ON YOU.
ROOMMATE #1: That Phi Delt so obviously liked you. I'm sure he just lost your number.
SECRETARY: He's not asking you out because he's intimidated by your professional success and emotional maturity.
CASHIER #1: Trust me. It's because he's just getting out of a serious relationship.
GIGI: So, Janine told me you're a real estate Yeah. But don't worry - not one of the cheesy ones who puts his headshot on bus benches and grocery carts.
CONOR: Yeah. But don't worry - not one of the cheesy ones who puts his headshot on bus benches and grocery carts.
GIGI: So just like on frisbees and notepads?
CONOR: You got it.
GIGI: Much classier.
CONOR: My thoughts exactly.
GIGI: I wonder why Janine never thought of introducing us before?
CONOR: Yeah, I don't know, I ummm -
WAITRESS: You guys ready for another round?
CONOR: You want one more?
GIGI: Only if you do. But I mean, if you have to get going I totally .
CONOR: Umm. OK. Sure. One more.
GIGI: Well, Conor, I had a really nice time.
CONOR: Yeah. It was really nice meeting you.
GIGI: Gigi waves flirtatiously and walks away, smiling.
CONOR: Hey, it's me.I just wanted you to know that I was thinking about you.
ANNA: Conor, that's so nice. Thank you.
BEN: Do you want to go ahead?
ANNA: Go ahead? You've only got two things.
BEN: Go ahead? You've only got two things.
ANNA: ( into phone ) Hold on.
BEN: Well, technically it's six. And I'm still mulling over a gum purchase. So.
ANNA: ( into phone ) Hey, let me call you right back.
EMOTIONLESS CASHIER: Oh my word.
ANNA: Come on. Seriously. I just deposited money today. There's no way -
EMOTIONLESS CASHIER: It's not that. Let me check something.
EMOTIONLESS CASHIER: ( CONT'D )
ANNA: EMOTIONLESS CASHIER
EMOTIONLESS CASHIER: Our "Sizzlin' Summer" promotion. You're our 1000th customer in June.
ANNA: Are you kidding?
EMOTIONLESS CASHIER: Do I have that kind of manner? A joking
ANNA: I swear to god, this is the most exciting thing that's ever happened to me.
BEN: Is that sad?
ANNA: Is that sad?
BEN: No, it's - charming. Congratulations.
ANNA: Wait, no. I can't accept this. You were here first. I didn't win at all.
BEN: Yes, you did. Trust me - it's fate. You were meant to have that cooler.
ANNA: Thank you SO MUCH.
ALEX: Hey. How was the date?
CONOR: Fine. You know.
ALEX: My cable's out.
CONOR: You didn't hear the phone ring, did you?
ALEX: Shit. Anna gave me the "I'll call you right back."
CONOR: Shit. Anna gave me the "I'll call you right back."
ALEX: How long ago?
CONOR: 22 minutes.
ALEX: Sorry, dude.
CONOR: Do I call back?
ALEX: At 9:30 PM? Genius.
CONOR: It is genius. Because then I can say: "In case you were going to call me back - don't - 'cause I'll be sleeping."
ALEX: Sounds foolproof.
ANNA: Sorry. What was I saying?
BEN: I think you were telling me how you don't want to be like your mom and wake up and realize you didn't pursue your dreams.
ANNA: Was I? Little intense for grocery store chatter. Sorry.
BEN: It's OK. I might even be able to help you out. There's a guy at my firm who has exclusively music clients.
ANNA: That would be - amazing. What are you - like my savior?
BEN: OK. Look. I'm married. I don't do Don't do what? Help struggling singers?
ANNA: Don't do what? Help struggling singers?
BEN: Help hot Pilates instructing singers who happen to be very charming.
ANNA: Do you want to give me your card? That's legit. I bet you're allowed to do that.
BEN: Right. OK. I guess that would be OK.
NEIL: So, who was that?
BEN: A prospective client.
NEIL: Yeah right.
BEN: I can talk to a woman Neil. It doesn't have to be like that.
NEIL: Hey, babe. You here?
BETH: Hey honey.
NEIL: Everything OK?
BETH: Yeah. Just got off the phone.
NEIL: You want some tea or something?
BETH: It was my baby sister. She's getting That's great. I've always liked that Devon guy. That's really great.
NEIL: That's great. I've always liked that Devon guy. That's really great.
BETH: Do you think it's great?
NEIL: So, you think it's great that they're getting married, but you never feel like we're going against nature or something by not getting married?
BETH: So, you think it's great that they're getting married, but you never feel like we're going against nature or something by not getting married?
NEIL: No, babe.
BETH: I actually think the odds of having a successful relationship increase by not getting married. Look at my parents - all marriage got them was thirty two years of misery and joint checking.
NEIL: I actually think the odds of having a successful relationship increase by not getting married. Look at my parents - all marriage got them was thirty two years of misery and joint checking.
BETH: Yeah, I know. I get that.
NEIL: Like I've always told you - I love you - and we don't need a marriage certificate to legitimize our relationship.
BETH: Lemme get you some tea.
NEIL: Lemme get you some tea.
JANINE: OK, so clearly he hasn't called.
GIGI: He sells real estate. In Baltimore. Staying in town is his business.
JANINE: Janine ponders this.
GIGI: Yes, really.
JANINE: Yes, really.
GIGI: This is all your fault.
JANINE: What? Why?
GIGI: You set me up with him.
JANINE: No - you asked if I knew any guys and I gave Conor your number. That's not a set up. When I do a set up - I weigh pros and cons. I do my due diligence. All I know about Conor is he sold us this
GIGI: He sold you a house in the ghetto.
JANINE: It's a neighborhood "in transition."
GIGI: He said he always hangs at Red Maple after work. Maybe I should do a little Please, don't. He'll call.
JANINE: Please, don't. He'll call.
AMBER: Caller ID was the worst thing that's ever happened to me. Total invasion of my personal freedom. When a guy doesn't call me, it is my right - my duty even - to call him and hang up several thousand times. Or at least until his mother shouts at me in Albanian and blows a police whistle into the phone. I mean, calling and hanging up is an age old expression of love and frustration and too many wine coolers - and who is AT& f'ing T to take that away from me?
GIGI: Mom, I gotta call you back.
JANINE: So, this was at the end of the date, or at the beginning?
GIGI: End. Why - does it matter?
JANINE: Yeah. "Nice meeting you" at the beginning of the date is normal. "Nice meeting you" at the end could be a blow off.
GIGI: Maybe it was at the beginning.
JANINE: Then that's fine. He's gonna call.
GIGI: Or maybe it was at the end. Or maybe it was nice to meet me.
JANINE: Wait - was it "nice meeting you" or "nice to meet you"?
GIGI: Shit. I can't remember.
JANINE: "Nice to meet you" is OK. "Nice meeting you" is like "Do you want your receipt in the bag?"
BETH: Remember the days when you guys at least pretended to be working when I came in?
JANINE: Beckon the baking to begin! McCormick, the flavor expert, introduces five fun filled flavors that will definitely delight dessert divas!
BETH: Maybe a shade heavy on the alliteration - but otherwise good. Where are we with the company newsletter?
GIGI: I am so almost done with that. It's just been a little hard to focus on my article about the two sets of twins in market research, when the guy - who may or may not be the guy of my dreams - refuses to call me.
BETH: Look, after my first date with Neil, I called him. There are no rules anymore. Why should you have to wait for him to get off his ass?
GIGI: It's ringing.
JANINE: Pretty standard.
GIGI: ( listening to receiver ) Yes! Voicemail.
JANINE: Your notes.
GIGI: ( reading off her paper ) Hey, Conor. It's Gigi. I just thought, I hadn't heard from you and, I mean how stupid is it that a gal has got to wait for a guy's call anyway, right?
JANINE: Don't worry. He's totally gonna call.
GIGI: WHAT? How can there be no dial tone?
KELLI ANN: Knock knock.
ALEX: KELLI ANN
KELLI ANN: So. Here we are. Same shift again.
ALEX: I know. I make the schedule.
KELLI ANN: ( FLIRTING ) I figured it was no coincidence.
ALEX: Yeah. It's amazing where 10 shots of Patron will get you.
KELLI ANN: Anyway - I was thinking, maybe tonight after work.we could, you know.
ALEX: Look, Kelli Ann - what happened between us the other night was - fun. But we're way understaffed tonight - I even have to man the bar - and that's why I scheduled you. To work. So.
KELLI ANN: No. We're good.
TYRONE: I know.
ALEX: I know.
KELLI ANN: Are you joining us for dinner or -
GIGI: I'm meeting someone. A guy.
KELLI ANN: Ugh. Why?
GIGI: KELLI ANN
KELLI ANN: Nothing. Sorry. For dinner?
GIGI: I'm meeting someone.
KELLI ANN: I believe you mentioned that.
GIGI: I'm gonna wait at the bar.
KELLI ANN: That's a great idea.
ALEX: What can I get you?
GIGI: Oh, that's OK. I'm meeting someone.
ALEX: Oh, yeah? Got a hot date?
GIGI: I don't know if you'd call it hot I mean this guy Conor and I have only been out the one time so
ALEX: Wait - Conor Barry?
GIGI: Oh, uhh, yeah
ALEX: Conor's not coming in tonight. Did he forget he was supposed to meet you?
GIGI: See when I said "meeting someone" I guess that was kind of a broad term, kind of a wide interpretation of the word "meeting"-
ALEX: Because I could just call him
GIGI: NO! I mean, totally unnecessary. I mean, I actually was just - in the area - so I figured I'd just swing by and see if he was around - because - uhhh -
ALEX: Dr. Frankel - Adult, Child and Geriatric Look, I'm not gonna judge about what may or may not be important to someone.
GIGI: Look, I'm not gonna judge about what may or may not be important to someone.
ALEX: That's not even his dentist.
GIGI: Oh, really? Then who's his dentist?
ALEX: My dad.
GIGI: I'm Gigi. Conor and I went out last week. And I just.I thought if I ran into him.I don't know. I'm gonna go.
ALEX: Hey. Just - hang out for a second. Lemme buy you a drink.
ALEX: Look, you seem like a cool girl, so I'm just gonna be honest - Conor is never going to call you.
GIGI: Oh really? How do you know?
ALEX: Because I'm a guy. It's how we do it.
GIGI: ( HOPEFUL ) He said it was nice meeting me.
ALEX: I don't care if he said you were his favorite female since his mommy and Joanie Cunningham. Over a week went by - and he didn't call.
GIGI: But maybe he called me and I didn't get the message. Or maybe he lost my number, or was out of town, or was hit by a cab, or his grandma died.
ALEX: Or maybe he just didn't call because he has no interest in seeing you again.
GIGI: Yeah but my friend Terri once went out with this guy who never called and she totally wrote him off - then like a year later she ran into him
ALEX: Your friend Terri's an idiot. And she's the exception.
GIGI: OK. But what if I'm the exception?
ALEX: You're not. You're the rule. And the rule is - if a guy doesn't call you, he doesn't want to call you.
GIGI: Really? Always?
ALEX: Yeah. Always. I know what blowing off a woman looks like. I do it early and I do it often. Trust me - if a guy is treating you like he doesn't give a shit - - he doesn't. No exceptions.
GIGI: Why are you telling me all of this? Aren't these man-secrets - like why men need to watch televised golf?
ALEX: I don't know. You looked like you could really use the help.
GIGI: Thank you. You've given me a lot to think about.
JANINE: Everything OK?
GIGI: I was up all night.
JANINE: Please say you were working on the Sure. It's basically done. But this is What's happening with your hair?
GIGI: Sure. It's basically done. But this is What's happening with your hair?
JANINE: What's happening with your hair?
BETH: Please come in my office before the others see that you have mini muffin stuck in your hair.
GIGI: I think I figured it out. Remember when I went out with that notary public? And he cheated on me? And then Anastasia from upstairs told us that story about how her boyfriend cheated on her at the beginning - but then he totally changed and they're married and crazy in love.
BETH: I thought that guy was a process server.
GIGI: No, notary. Anyway, the point is - Anastasia is the exception. Not the rule. We have to stop listening to these stories - because the rule is that most guys who cheat on you up front don't really care about you very much.
BETH: Gigi consults her crumpled pieces of paper.
GIGI: Exhibit A: Chad, the drummer who lived in his storage space. He only used me for rides, yet I continued to stalk him for most of 1998. Then there was Don, who broke up with me every Friday so he could have his weekends free. I was so delusional about our relationship that I referred to him as my husband to random people like my dental hygenist.
BETH: OK. So let me see if I understand. What you're saying is that when people tell me about some girl they know who dated a guy for thirteen years, and then he finally married her that's the exception. And the rule is that guys - like Neil - who are with girls - like me - for seven years without getting married - are never getting married.
GIGI: No. No, no, no. That's not what I'm saying. This has absolutely nothing to do with you. I was just talking, you know, about me. Specifically.
ANNA: It is impossible not to like this guy. I'm pretty sure he was heavily flirting with me outside Eddie's, and then he tells me he's married. You'd think I'd be pissed, but I literally could not stop myself from liking him.
MARY: But he's married.
ANNA: I realize that. I keep trying to force myself to picture him in some church saying vows to some woman, and even that doesn't cool it off. What is my problem?
MARY: OK. There was this guy who worked in my dad's printing business. Married for fifteen years to a nice lady. And then he meets this woman at some church event. And he told my dad he just had never felt anything like it before. I mean, he had finally met the love of his life. So, he divorced his wife, and he's been with this other woman for 22 years and they are blissfully happy. I mean, what if you meet the love of your life - but you already married someone else? Are you supposed to pass them by?
ANNA: You're right. I'm calling him.
ANNA: Well, I was just taking you up on your offer. You said you might know someone who could help me out and I thought we could discuss it over coffee?
CONOR: I am so psyched that you called.
ANNA: I had sort of given up on you when you didn't call me back the other night.
CONOR: I had sort of given up on you when you didn't call me back the other night.
ANNA: Well, you know. I was just thinking about you.
ANNA: Your turn.
CONOR: OK. Give me the categories again.
ANNA: There are four. Sexy, smart, funny or cute. And each person can only be two. Like Sarah Jessica Parker is funny and sexy. Or Bill Clinton is sexy and smart.
CONOR: I love that you are hot for Clinton.
ANNA: So, which am I?
CONOR: What was I again?
ANNA: Smart and cute.
CONOR: OK. You're sexy. Very sexy. And cute.
ANNA: No. Cute and sexy are in the looks column. No one wants to be in all one Well, I sound like a jackass if I say you're all four. But you're so obviously all four. Especially sexy.
CONOR: Well, I sound like a jackass if I say you're all four. But you're so obviously all four. Especially sexy.
ANNA: You're the best.
CONOR: Oh. OK. I mean, you could just stay here tonight.
ANNA: I know. It's just - I'm fried. Is that Sure. Of course.
CONOR: Sure. Of course.
NEIL: Hey babe, is this straight?
BETH: Why are you hanging that?
NEIL: I told you I'd do it weeks ago. You don't like it there?
BETH: I love it there. But just - stop.
NEIL: It's the image, isn't it? I didn't see it before, but - you're right - it totally looks like a sagging boob.
BETH: No. I want you stop doing anything nice.
NEIL: Is this a trick?
BETH: No. I need you to stop being nice to me - unless you're gonna marry me after.
NEIL: No. It was just - I was just
BETH: See, you can't keep being nice to me and I can't keep pretending like this is something that it's not. We've been together over seven years. You know me. You either want to marry me or you don't.
NEIL: Or there is the possibility that I just don't really believe in the concept of -
BETH: BULLSHIT! BULLSHIT! Bullshit for every woman who's been told by some guy that he doesn't believe in marriage just to see him turn around eight months later and marry some twenty four year old girl he met at the gym. Bullshit.
NEIL: Honey, where is all this coming from?
BETH: From the place that I have been hiding from you for the last five years because I didn't want to seem demanding, or clingy or psycho or whatever. So I never ask. But now I'm going to -
AMY: I was with Damon for six years. He asked me to marry him on the phone, because he's just so different and cool like that. Said he'd eventually get me a ring, which he didn't, but he did buy himself a ring because isn't that so hilarious and cool that the guy is wearing the ring? Then, my favorite part is, I stayed with him even after he took back his proposal, and introduced the idea of a "relation vacation." Isn't that a cute name? Let me explain the concept: it involves dating a girl from the time she's thirty two to the time she's thirty nine, possibly robbing her of the ability to bear children, and then, after all that, wanting to take a year off. And giving it a fun name that you can put on t-shirts. I left him.
BEN: Hey, Anna. This is Ben. Look, I know it's been a little while since you called. I just - it took me by surprise. But I offered to help you with your career, and I don't see why I can't do that, right? So, give me a call. Maybe you can come by the office this week or something. Okay, take care. Bye.
JANINE: Hey, how
BEN: Shit - you scared me.
JANINE: Is everything OK?
BEN: Yeah. Everything's fine. Why?
JANINE: Are you smoking again?
BEN: No, sweetie. Why?
JANINE: Well - you get jumpy when you smoke.
BEN: I'm not smoking. So, why don't we worry about what color we're gonna paint this room, instead of worrying about things that aren't happening?
JANINE: I don't know - I was thinking maybe - Pink? Seriously?
BEN: Pink? Seriously?
JANINE: Well, I mean, at some point.
BEN: You sure we're ready for this now?
JANINE: No. But I mean, we could paint one room pink and one blue just in case.
BEN: You've already created the perfect family in this house, and we don't even have I'm sorry. I know I promised we'd wait to talk about it -
JANINE: I'm sorry. I know I promised we'd wait to talk about it -
BEN: I think we're almost ready to start talking about it.
JANINE: I've always liked the name Gisele.
JARRAD: Well, ladies, I guess I have to get back to the office.
GIGI: You go back to the office after happy hour? What's happy about that?
JARRAD: I met you.
GIGI: Of course.
JARRAD: And here's my info.
GIGI: So, wait how are we doing this? Are you hearing from me or am I getting a
JARRAD: You said you'd love to call me, but then you said "look forward to hearing from you." See how that's kinda confusing?
GIGI: You said you'd love to call me, but then you said "look forward to hearing from you." See how that's kinda confusing?
JARRAD: Look - we'll talk. We'll get in touch.
GIGI: Ooopsie - you did it again. Very vague. You know what? Why don't we just say that you'll call me, and then we can skip all the nonsense.
JARRAD: Goodbye, Gigi.
GIGI: He was cute.
JANINE: Please don't cyber-stalk him.
GIGI: I'm not calling him. If he wants to see me - he'll call.
JANINE: Wow, that guy Alex really made an impression on you. Was he hot?
GIGI: No. He was just right.
BRUCE: Mary looks at them, smiling, enjoying their impatience.
MARY: He asked me out.
NATHAN: Oh my god! He called?
MARY: Well -
JOSHUA: He emailed?
MARY: Umm -
BRUCE: What? Did he travel by carriage and leave his calling card with your lady in He MySpaced me.
MARY: He MySpaced me.
NATHAN: I don't know. My slutty sister says MySpace is the new booty call.
JOSHUA: I don't know. My slutty sister says MySpace is the new booty call.
MARY: Well, what am I supposed to do? Things have changed. People don't just meet organically anymore. If I want to make myself more attractive to the opposite sex, I don't go get a new haircut - I update my profile. That's just how it
CONOR: Hey, it's Conor. Anna's - uh - friend. Or whatever.
MARY: Hey. So, did you see it?
CONOR: I'm not sure about this.
MARY: You gotta trust me. It's a burgeoning market. You're gonna make a fortune.
CONOR: Yeah. I hope so. But, like - did you have to put me on the page with the massage ads?
MARY: It was either that or on the page with the personals. I made a call.
CONOR: OK. You're right. Hey, have you talked to Anna lately?
CATHERINE: I do not understand how you got mom to sew all of these in two weeks.
PAIGE: She wanted to do it.
LAURA: Mom told me she felt like an old Indonesian lady in a sweatshop.
PAIGE: No, she didn't.
BETH: Why again do you need to get married so You're so pregnant.
CATHERINE: You're so pregnant.
PAIGE: I'm not pregnant.
CATHERINE: Chug a beer, then. I want to see you chug a beer.
PAIGE: We're in love, you assholes. That's what people do when they're in love - they get
BETH: It's OK. Neil and I are actually - done -
CATHERINE: Why didn't you tell us? You should have told us.
LAURA: You have to come over and have dinner with me and Steven and the kids tonight, OK? You can even stay over if you want.
CATHERINE: Why would she want to hang out with us and our husbands? Seriously, Beth, isn't that exactly what you want to avoid right
PAIGE: You know what - if being in the wedding is too painful-
BETH: You guys, it's cool. I'm fine. So I lost a little time. Big deal.
CATHERINE: So not a big deal. You're still really So young.
PAIGE: So young.
LAURA: Everything you learned in that relationship is just gonna make the next one so much stronger.
BETH: Beth exits, still wearing a half-sewn bridesmaid's dress.
LAURA: She wasted so much time.
CATHERINE: I knew he was never gonna propose.
PAIGE: The girls nod in agreement.
BEN: I know it's here somewhere. I spoke to George Lane in music, and he gave me this whole list of references for you.
ANNA: It's cool. You can call me when you find I swear I didn't lure you here under false pretenses.
BEN: I swear I didn't lure you here under false pretenses.
ANNA: I know. But a girl can dream.
BEN: We'd been together since college. She gave me an ultimatum: we get married or we break up. So, we got married.
ANNA: Seriously? You just caved?
BEN: It's complicated.
ANNA: You're a dick if you date a girl for too long, and don't marry her. But you marry her, and then you're an asshole for marrying her before you're ready. Shit - I don't know.
BEN: You're a dick if you date a girl for too long, and don't marry her. But you marry her, and then you're an asshole for marrying her before you're ready. Shit - I don't know.
JANINE: She waits for a response. Nothing. She starts to brush the dust off with her hands.
JAVIER!: She waits for a response. Nothing. She starts to brush the dust off with her hands.
GIGI: Hi, this is Gigi.
ALEX: Gigi Phillips. I had the - umm - dentist I'm really sorry to bug you. I just - I thought you had some really good insights the other night and I had a question.
GIGI: Gigi Phillips. I had the - umm - dentist I'm really sorry to bug you. I just - I thought you had some really good insights the other night and I had a question.
ALEX: I'm really sorry to bug you. I just - I thought you had some really good insights the other night and I had a question.
GIGI: I'm really sorry to bug you. I just - I thought you had some really good insights the other night and I had a question.
ALEX: Okay, maybe I need to be harsh Conor is never going to be interested in you.
GIGI: No, I know. This is about - - Jarrad. You have a sec?
ALEX: So I meet him at happy hour and he was completely charming
GIGI: So I meet him at happy hour and he was completely charming
ALEX: Lemme guess - he said the only thing happy about this hour is you.
GIGI: He may have used some derivative of that. So, he says he's going to call, but then gave me his card and
ALEX: He's not interested.
GIGI: You don't even know if he called
ALEX: Did he?
GIGI: No. But the thing is, I honestly think he's expecting my call.
ALEX: He. Is. Not. Interested.
TYRONE: Alex - this is jacked. The hostess is giving me shit for not wearing a white shirt this shirt is WHITE!
ALEX: If a guy gives you his phone number, instead of taking yours, he's not He took mine first, but then he
GIGI: He took mine first, but then he
ALEX: And, if a guy wants to see you, he will see you. I once called 55 Lauren Bell's until I got the right one.
GIGI: That's cute. What happened?
ALEX: As it turned out, her ass looked really huge in daylight.
GIGI: Is it your sensitivity that makes you so popular with women?
ALEX: Don't call him. He doesn't like you.
GIGI: Again with the sensitivity.
ALEX: Just trying to help.
GIGI: I know. Thanks.
MAYA: Oh sweetie - you didn't have to get me Mom - you always say that and I always get you something.
ANNA: Mom - you always say that and I always get you something.
MAYA: You didn't.
ANNA: It's no big deal.
CONOR: What is it?
MAYA: Here - put on my favorite.
CONOR: No. She did not.
MAYA: We met at a coffee shop in 1971. Hell's Kitchen. I had no idea who he was. But he had this big mop of hair and these eyes that just looked past you and through you and into you all at the same time. Complete interest and disinterest. It was amazing.
ANNA: Mom, please -
MAYA: It's the truth. I knew them all. Robert Plant, Harry Nilsson, Graham Parsons. Have you seen the pictures of me from when I was Anna's age?
CONOR: Umm - I don't think so -
MAYA: Sweetie go get that picture - you know the one -
CONOR: Wow. That's - unbelievable.
MAYA: So that's what we're dealing with here, for reference. Imagine meeting someone who looks like that in a coffee shop.
CONOR: That's funny, because, I mean, I guess I kinda did. Anna and I met at a restaurant. That serves coffee. So, not a coffee shop, but.still -
MAYA: That's sweet. But if we're comparing stories - She's no me - and you're no Tim Buckley.
ANNA: Thanks again for coming with me. You make it so much easier.
CONOR: Are you kidding? I like your mom. She's Yeah, well - cool's not always what you're looking for in a mom.
ANNA: Yeah, well - cool's not always what you're looking for in a mom.
CONOR: So, you want another foot rub?
ANNA: Ugh. I'm just beat. I wanna put on sweats and get in bed.
CONOR: I'd be into that.
ANNA: I'll call you tomorrow, OK?
TRENT: If a girl is into you, she's sleeping with you. And if after a month - two months at the very outside - she's not sleeping with you, she does not like you. I guess the trick is, how to spot this girl early - so you don't waste the one to seven weeks waiting to find out that it's never gonna happen. So, I've got some signs about how to spot this girl - gleaned from my own experience, of course. A girl will never sleep with you if: she calls you cuddly or dependable, she pops a zit in front of you, her name is Amber or Christine, she takes a dump in your bathroom or she takes home leftovers in dates 1-3. I know it's not scientific - but I'm just saying - you were warned.
ALEX: Hey dude - you here?
ALEX: Wanna beer?
CONOR: Conor grabs the beer and opens it.
ALEX: Need I ask?
CONOR: It's for work. I'm trying to expand my client base.
ALEX: By pretending you're gay?
CONOR: No. By being more gay friendly.
ALEX: Or, in real estate terms, by becoming "gay adjacent".
CONOR: Nice. I may have to use that.
ALEX: I don't know. You dress like that - and you're already seeing a girl who won't sleep with you - I think maybe you can pull it off.
ALEX: Won't sleep with you anymore.
CONOR: Pretty much, yeah. So, what do you think?
ALEX: I think you're gonna have to beat 'em away with a stick - you hot, sexy man.
GIGI: Who would have thought that a random girl from Pilates would fix me up with such a good kisser?
GREGORY: Back at you sister.
GIGI: I can't wait to kiss you again.
GREGORY: Umm. We're kissing right now.
GIGI: I know. But next time. The second date kiss is way more intimate.
GREGORY: Well, I'm going out of town tomorrow - so I'll be out of touch for a bit.
GIGI: Would you excuse me a quick second? Too many diet cokes.
ALEX: Hey, sorry to bug you again. Quick Would you excuse me a second, babe?
GIGI: Hey, sorry to bug you again. Quick Would you excuse me a second, babe?
ALEX: ( to his hot lady ) Would you excuse me a second, babe?
GIGI: I'm making out with a guy - PG stuff - and then he mentions he's going out of town, so he's gonna be out of touch.
ALEX: But maybe he is going out of town.
GIGI: But maybe he is going out of town.
ALEX: To where? The Arab Emirates? Where is he going that he has to be out of touch?
GIGI: Where are you going out of town to again?
GIGI: So, now what? I'm just supposed to run from every guy who doesn't like me?
ALEX: So, now what? I'm just supposed to run from every guy who doesn't like me?
GIGI: So, now what? I'm just supposed to run from every guy who doesn't like me?
ALEX: Uhh - yeah.
GIGI: There's not going to be anyone left.
ALEX: OK, I don't know why I'm saying this - but I actually think I know a nice guy who you might like.
GIGI: Yeah. He's a friend of my brother's. Bill. We'll all meet for a drink - it'll be good.
ALEX: Yeah. He's a friend of my brother's. Bill. We'll all meet for a drink - it'll be good.
GIGI: So, I'm in his bathroom right now. What do I now?
ALEX: You gotta come out eventually. But I'd really take my time. Let him sweat.
BEN: So, we ran into each other.
ANNA: You came to my class.
BEN: I didn't know it was your class.
ANNA: You called and asked me.
BEN: But you didn't call me back.
ANNA: Because you said not to call back if it was my class. Which it was.
BEN: We ran into each other.
ANNA: Totally. A couple of innocent folks - by happenstance - doing their daily workout near one another.
BEN: Exactly. Thank you.
ANNA: Wanna swim?
BEN: I was just thinking - why can't we be friends? Am I not allowed to make friends anymore? Am I not allowed to be friends with hot people? What kind of reverse prejudice is that?
ANNA: I hear you. Am I supposed to not be friends with a guy just because he's married, and happens to have this insane smile and this ass that makes me want to dry hump?
BEN: I think I just fell in love. A girl who talks about a dry hump.
ANNA: Classy, right?
BEN: Classy is lame.
ANNA: So, friends, right?
BEN: And with that, Anna pulls off her top. And then her sweats. And, totally naked, slides into the pool.
ANNA: You wanna come in?
BEN: I'm sorry. I don't trust myself.
ANNA: OK. You can just watch.
BEN: You may be the best friend I've ever had.
JANINE: Honey - you smell different.
BEN: Different how?
JANINE: I don't know.
BEN: Well that's an odd thing to say.
JANINE: Maybe it's the ashtray and cigarettes I found. In the side yard. What part of "my dad died of lung cancer" is hard for you to wrap your brain around?
BEN: Do not lie to me, Ben. Please.
JANINE: Do not lie to me, Ben. Please.
BEN: Are you serious? We have like eight thousand undocumented workers in this house daily. You find cigarettes, and you automatically assume they're mine?
JANINE: Well, yes.
BEN: Honey, I'm not lying. And you are really freaking out. I think the renovation is getting to you because nothing is going on. Just please - relax.
NEIL: Ah. My first visitor.
BEN: This boat is sick. How come you never invited me out before?
NEIL: Well, this was supposed to be just for Beth and I - for our retirement. Leave our jobs. Sell the house. Take off.
NEIL: ( re: cigarette ) It's OK.
BEN: It's OK.
NEIL: So Janine sent you to check on me?
BEN: Yeah. Pretty much.
NEIL: Any message from Beth?
BEN: I think she's been busy getting ready for her sister's funeral though, so.
NEIL: Her sister's what?
BEN: Wedding. Her sister's wedding. What did I say?
NEIL: You said funeral.
BEN: No, I didn't. Shit, did I?
NEIL: The marriage thing is weird, man. I never thought Beth would give me an Really? Why not? That's what women do.
BEN: Really? Why not? That's what women do.
NEIL: Right. I forgot. That's how Janine got you to bite the bullet.
BEN: Neil looks at Ben, curious.
NEIL: Do you regret it?
BEN: So you're happy? You'd say you're happily married?
NEIL: So you're happy? You'd say you're happily married?
BEN: I love Janine.
COUSIN: Now, I know when my cousin Paige says those vows tomorrow, there are going to be hearts breaking all over the world.
KEN: OK - that's enough of the speeches. Time to eat. So enjoy the crab. And the yellow stuff is not hot mustard, it's the crab's hepatopancreas.
BETH: I know. And even he's married.
KEN: So, you'll get married a little bit later than some people. Big deal. You never did anything the way every one else did it, and that's what I've always thought was so great about you.
BETH: I'm your oldest daughter, and I'm the only one not married. If this was Fiddler on the Roof you'd have to sacrifice me or something.
KEN: Honey, look. When everyone else was just going to camp at the Y, you borrowed my New York Times, found some arts camp in the Berkshires, wrote away for information, then got accepted on your own. You were nine. You never did things the way everyone else did.
BETH: Why not?
KEN: Because that's you. That's why you're my favorite daughter.
BETH: I don't think you're supposed to say Well, I don't give a shit. I'm retired, and I'll say what I want. I'll say it into the mic if you want
KEN: Well, I don't give a shit. I'm retired, and I'll say what I want. I'll say it into the mic if you want
BETH: That's OK.
KEN: It's true, though.
BETH: I know.
ALEX: Sorry I'm late.
GIGI: That's OK. I like a little time before a blind date - prepare myself mentally, remind myself not to tell the story about my molars
ALEX: He's not coming.
GIGI: How can he already not like me?
ALEX: I screwed up. I told Bill it was Thursday, but I meant Tuesday.
GIGI: Awesome. I'm stuck here with a guy who can't distinguish Tuesday from Thursday - and meanwhile this girl - - she's probably meeting her soul mate as we speak.
ALEX: How do you know?
GIGI: How do you know?
ALEX: See the guy trying to work the Tom Cruise thing. She's interested. He's not.
GIGI: You cannot tell from a cursory glance that he's not interested.
ALEX: Actually, I can. I manage a restaurant. I see this stuff go down every night.
GIGI: Man, you have a gift.
ALEX: And check out droopy dawg on her other side. He can buy her drinks all night, and she'll insist there's no "spark."
GIGI: Maybe there isn't. You need a spark.
ALEX: The "spark" thing is bullshit.
GIGI: Really? Enlighten me.
ALEX: Guys invented the "spark" so they could not call and treat you kind of bad and keep you guessing, and then convince you that the anxiety and fear that it creates in you is actually a "spark." And you all buy it. You love it. You all thrive on it because you all love drama.
GIGI: I don't.
ALEX: Really? So you don't wait until the last minute on deadlines, or on phone bills, because you love the drama of not knowing whether you'll make it?
GIGI: And let me guess - when you were stalking Conor that night - were you obsessing about him calling for days, even though the date was just kind of mediocre?
ALEX: And let me guess - when you were stalking Conor that night - were you obsessing about him calling for days, even though the date was just kind of mediocre?
GIGI: OK. Yeah.
ALEX: See, you thrive on drama. You gotta be more like me - if a girl likes me great, if not, there are plenty more like her - probably with smaller pores and bigger That's beautiful.
GIGI: That's beautiful.
ALEX: They continue drinking and observing the scene.
GIGI: Why are you sharing all this inside dating information with me again?
ALEX: I dunno. I like you.
GIGI: You do?
ALEX: Don't start doodling my name on your binder. I just mean, I like you, like I like basset hounds. They're kinda pathetic - so you want to cheer them up.
GIGI: Again with the sensitivity.
JANINE: It looks good.
JAVIER: He does good work.
JANINE: He does good work.
JAVIER: He's very good.
JANINE: Javier, if I asked you an honest question, do you think you could give me an honest answer?
JAVIER: Javier, if I asked you an honest question, do you think you could give me an honest answer?
JANINE: Javier, if I asked you an honest question, do you think you could give me an honest answer?
JAVIER: I think so.
JANINE: Good. Because I think some of your guys have been - smoking.
JAVIER: Is that the question?
JANINE: Oh. It seemed like a statement.
JAVIER: Oh. It seemed like a statement.
JANINE: The question part was implied -
JAVIER: I didn't really hear it in the inflection-
JANINE: Javier - have your guys been smoking or No, ma'am. My guys don't smoke on the job site. They're all good guys.
JAVIER: No, ma'am. My guys don't smoke on the job site. They're all good guys.
JANINE: Are you sure your guys aren't sneaking around here? And smoking? And lying to me? And smoking?
JAVIER: I'm pretty sure.
JANINE: I need you to be honest with me, Javier. Because I can't have someone lying to me. To my face. Under my roof. On my time.
JAVIER: ( very softly ) That's a lot of prepositions.
JANINE: I mean, there is no reason for that kind of dishonesty, is there? IS THERE? I mean, we made promises to one another
JAVIER: Maybe I should just get back to work.
JANINE: Yes. Fine. Good idea.
CONOR: Hello, my name is Conor. Please sign in whenever you get a chance.
ANNA: This is insane. You're like the Liza Minelli of real estate.
CONOR: I know. Your friend Mary's a genius.
ANNA: Alright. Gotta run.
CONOR: You got a class?
ANNA: Uh, no. Just some stuff. See you later?
CONOR: Conor goes in for a HUG, but Anna's not ready for it - so he just ends up grabbing her. It's awkward. She leaves, Conor tries to play it off, looks around the room.
SKIP: She's holding out on you, isn't she?
CONOR: I'm not sure I get your meaning.
LARRY: It's obvious. She won't sleep with you. It's written all over your puppy dog
CONOR: It's killing me. Literally. I'm dying.
LARRY: Here, have a cookie.
CONOR: I just - I have no idea what she's doing. I cannot read her signals - at all. We used to sleep together - all the time. Well, that's not true, I don't know why I said that, it wasn't all the time. But it did happen - I know I'm not making this up. And then, out of nowhere, it stops. But she still calls, she stops by, she sleeps on my couch, she wants a massage, she leaves cute messages - but it never goes ANYWHERE. I mean, what is she doing?
LARRY: Honestly - we may not have the best insight. Gay signals have nothing to do with straight signals.
SKIP: He's right. Like - here's "I want to sleep with you".
LARRY: One, two, three - that's it. Three seconds or more - it's on.
SKIP: Here's "I don't want to sleep with you."
LARRY: One, two - No. Thanks for playing. Move along.
SKIP: It's that simple.
CONOR: You're right. That's no help at all.
LARRY: But listen - I can tell you this. Gay or straight, you're not going to get anywhere by being inactive. She clearly likes you - maybe she just wants you to be a man and do something. So the next time you're in the position - don't take no for an answer.
SKIP: That sounds like felonious advice.
LARRY: You're right. Let me rephrase. Don't take maybe for an answer.
BEN: Wait. Stop.
ANNA: Shit. This is bad.
BEN: Shit. This is bad.
ANNA: I am so into you.
BEN: I am so into you.
ANNA: Why stop?
BEN: Because I don't do stuff like this.
ANNA: Stuff like what?
BEN: Like having sex with women who are not my First of all, I'm not women. I'm just
ANNA: First of all, I'm not women. I'm just
BEN: What's second of all?
ANNA: I didn't have a second of all.
BEN: I thought second of all was going to make me feel better.
ANNA: Second of all - I can't stop thinking about you, either.
BEN: I have to tell her.
ANNA: I have to tell her.
BEN: I have to tell her.
ANNA: I don't want to push you to
BEN: I want to be with you. And I can't do that if I'm lying to her.
ANNA: You know what's best.
LOUIS: Here's the thing - my daughter is happily married with kids and running a tanning salon on Staten Island. But if she wasn't, I'd tell her the same thing I'd like to tell a lot of the girls that come in and out of this building on the arm of a married guy.
ANNA: I'm not picking out china patterns or anything - but I've never felt anything like this before.
MARY: This is crazy. I can't believe he's gonna leave his wife for you.
ANNA: No, he's not leaving his wife for me. He's just - he's a good guy. And he can't really explore what we could be if he's lying to her.
MARY: I don't know. Remember Becca, my sister's friend. Some guy waits on her at Bennigan's - by the end of the night they both knew they had found the one.
ANNA: You're totally right. It can happen.
MARY: Not for me.
ANNA: Well, what about texter?
MARY: Texter has yet to make any verbal contact. I mean, this guy could have had surgery that left him without a voice box, breathing through a stoma, and I'd never know because I never actually hear his voice.
ANNA: I doubt he has a stoma -
MARY: That's not the point. The point is - I can't text. I'm not charming via text. My sarcasm doesn't come through, I can't type fast enough on the little phone So don't text.
ANNA: So don't text.
MARY: It's not just texting. It's email and voicemail and snail mail -
ANNA: That's just mail -
MARY: Whatever. None of it's working. I've had a guy leave a voicemail for me at work, and then I call him back at home, and he emails me to my Blackberry, and then I text him to his cell and then he emails me to my home account from the plane phone and it just totally gets out of hand. I miss the days where you had one phone number with one answering machine that housed one cassette tape and either the cassette tape had a message from the guy or it didn't. That's it. Now you have to go around checking all your portals and get rejected by seven different technologies. It's exhausting.
ANNA: So what about the singer guy?
MARY: Jude. Yeah, I like him.
ANNA: That's great.
MARY: Totally. I felt like we connected.
GIGI: INTERCUT WITH: INT. RED MAPLE - OFFICE - NIGHT Even in the office we can hear the din of the bar scene.
ALEX: Oh, hey. You're home.
GIGI: Where am I supposed to be?
ALEX: Out. It's Saturday night.
GIGI: You won't let me go out with guys who don't like me. It's kind of limiting.
ALEX: I was just calling to let you know - I'm having a party at my place next weekend. You should come.
GIGI: I don't know. Won't Conor be there? Might be kinda awkward.
ALEX: He's in DC for the weekend at some real estate conference. But there's gonna be a bunch of single guys.
GIGI: So I will have plenty of chances to be awkward. Thank god.
ALEX: Don't worry. I'll be there. I'll talk you through it.
GIGI: So, the party - is it like a big party, more of a mellow hang or
ALEX: Yeah, OK. Gotta go - I think someone just dropped 84 wine glasses.
WATTS: Amanda Jones is no minor leaguer who'll be swept off her feet at the touch of your amateur lips.
KEITH: I think I can handle it.
WATTS: It's cool. I was just gonna work on it with you but - if you're Wait. How do you work on it?
KEITH: Wait. How do you work on it?
WATTS: Pretend I'm a girl, OK? I mean, pretend I'm her.Amanda.
GIGI: He's into me.
JANINE: Awesome. I knew it. Who's this now?
GIGI: Alex. It's totally clear to me now. He's Watts.
JANINE: From Some Kind of Wonderful.
GIGI: From Some Kind of Wonderful.
JANINE: Wait, isn't Mary Stuart Masterson Watts?
GIGI: So, why aren't you Watts?
JANINE: So, why aren't you Watts?
GIGI: I'm Eric Stoltz.
JANINE: Alex is Watts because Watts helps Eric Stoltz go on a date with Amanda Jones, but really she's in love with Eric Stoltz Wait - so who's Amanda Jones?
GIGI: Alex is Watts because Watts helps Eric Stoltz go on a date with Amanda Jones, but really she's in love with Eric Stoltz Wait - so who's Amanda Jones?
JANINE: Wait - so who's Amanda Jones?
GIGI: I guess Conor at first. Now men in general. But that's not the point. The point is he's into me.
JANINE: You know, I knew there had to be a reason he was spending all that time with you.
GIGI: I know! It's so obvious now there are so many signs.
JANINE: Oooh, gimme the signs. I love to hear about the signs.
GIGI: At first they were small - like when I first called he said "Good to hear from you" -
JANINE: Totally good sign.
GIGI: Right? And then the next time I called he was with a woman - but he still took the call. And talked to me for a while.
JANINE: You know it was a woman?
GIGI: He called her "babe."
JANINE: A guy does not leave a woman - to talk to another woman - unless there's something going on.
GIGI: I know! And it gets more obvious. I mean, please - there was no guy he was going to fix me up with. The fix up was Wait - really?
JANINE: Wait - really?
GIGI: He shows up - without this fictitious Bill character - and the two of us basically have a date. And then he calls me to invite me to a party at his place.
JANINE: You're right. He so likes you.
MARY: There's no way he's already called - we only met for coffee last night. I mean we video iChatted. While holding coffee. Kinda like having coffee.
NATHAN: Just call your voice mail.
MARY: And he told me he had a gig last night, so he probably got in real late. Did I tell you he was singer?
BRUCE: Just call.
JOSHUA: On speaker.
NATHAN: I just got hard.
BRUCE: Amazing. He'll sing to your babies.
AUTOMATED VOICE: ALL MESSAGES DELETED.
JANINE: That one.
BEN: No. That's the laminate.
JANINE: That one isn't real hardwood floor?
BEN: No. But it looks exactly the same - at like one one hundredth of the cost.
JANINE: I still wanna go with the real wood.
BEN: But you can't even tell the difference.
JANINE: That's not the point.
BEN: Then what's the point?
JANINE: I just don't like the way it's pretending to be wood. If you're not wood, then don't try to look like wood.
BEN: I don't think it's pretending
JANINE: It's a lie. Just be up front - tell people what you really are.
BEN: You're right. I'm sorry. You're totally It's OK. Maybe we should look at the grills and come back.
JANINE: It's OK. Maybe we should look at the grills and come back.
BEN: I slept with someone.
I: I heard you.
JANINE: I heard you.
BEN: That is not why I -
JANINE: I knew it. I KNEW IT. You asshole.
BEN: I'm sorry. I'm so sorry.
JANINE: And it's you that's been smoking, too, isn't it?
BEN: What? Why does that matter?
JANINE: HAVE - YOU - BEEN - SMOKING? No. No. I haven't.
BEN: No. No. I haven't.
JANINE: EXCUSE ME? And now you want to move out? You're like - what - leaving me?
BEN: No. NO. I just assumed that you wouldn't want me to
JANINE: We're not going to deal with this? We're not going to figure out a way to work through this?
BEN: I just assumed that once I told you, you would want me out.
JANINE: Is that what you want?
BEN: ( almost a whisper )
JANINE: She heads down the aisle with the cart. Ben follows, confused - that didn't go how he thought it would.
DAN: You must be Beth.
BETH: I've heard a lot about you from Paige. I'd been lobbying for weeks to be seated next to her single sister.
DAN: I've heard a lot about you from Paige. I'd been lobbying for weeks to be seated next to her single sister.
BETH: Oh, yeah? So you are - Uh, sort of.
DAN: Uh, sort of.
BETH: Well, I'm actually a wiccan. So I have a magickal name.
DAN: Well, I'm actually a wiccan. So I have a magickal name.
BETH: It's Brother Phoenix East-Horse. But I didn't know if that would fit on a card.
DAN: It's Brother Phoenix East-Horse. But I didn't know if that would fit on a card.
NATHAN: It makes your breath stink.
GIGI: Gigi looks up to see Nathan and Bruce - Mary's gay coworkers who are now decked out in full-on Saturday night gay mode - standing next to her.
NATHAN: Chex Mix. I learned the hard way. I made out with a guy after eating like a bag of the stuff. He said my breath smelled like trout.
GIGI: Thanks for the tip.
NATHAN: I'm sorry. That was rude. And that guy I made out with was a total asshole.
BRUCE: You want me to smell you? I'm sure you don't smell like trout.
GIGI: Thanks. I'm good.
NATHAN: I'm Nathan. This is Bruce.
GIGI: Gigi. How do you guys know Alex?
BRUCE: We don't. Our friend Mary heard about it from some guy named Conor.
NATHAN: How do you know Alex?
GIGI: I hope - I mean I'm pretty sure - something is about to happen between us.
NATHAN: So, you're here as like a guest, or like his date?
BRUCE: I hate that - when you don't know if you're a date - so you don't know if you should bring a friend, or if you're like co-hosting or if you should stay til the end to have alone time
GIGI: He didn't really say.
NATHAN: I did get a slight waft of trout, though. Take a mint.
BRUCE: I did get a slight waft of trout, though. Take a mint.
GIGI: Thank you.
DOMINIC: So, where's Neil?
BETH: We actually broke up.
DOMINIC: No way. You guys were together for like ten years.
BETH: Seven. But yes, a long time.
DOMINIC: Too bad cousins can't marry, huh? Cuz then we could maybe
BETH: Eeew Dominic, gross.
ALEX: I had no idea it would be such a
GIGI: Hey. Great party.
ALEX: Are any guys hitting on you? Do you need me to evaluate their level of interest?
GIGI: They were gay. Even I know that their level of interest was probably low.
ALEX: Well - too bad Bill couldn't make it. I still think you guys would hit it off.
GIGI: Oh OK. Right.
ALEX: Anyway - I'm on my way to put out some more liquor. But it looks like the food could use some refreshing
GIGI: You mean, kind of like - co-hosting?
ALEX: Uhh, OK. The chips are on top of the
GIGI: Thanks. When Alex said he wanted to have a party, I was like "Let's do it."
GIGI: No problem. Anytime.
TALL GIRL: No, that's OK. I got it.
GIGI: TALL GIRL
TALL GIRL: Alex asked me to get the dip together. Thanks for getting it started.
GIGI: When someone's underwear ends up in your toaster oven - it's been a good party.
ALEX: I guess people had fun.
TALL GIRL: Alex, you want me to start cleaning up?
GIGI: That's sweet of you. But I thought I'd stick around, so I'll take care of it.
TALL GIRL: No. I got it.
ALEX: Knock yourselves out.
GIGI: I think I've rounded up the last of the beer bottles.
TALL GIRL: YES!! Suck it!
ALEX: You are sensational.
TALL GIRL: Did you say it's past three? Man, I gotta go.
ALEX: Thanks for staying and helping clean up - but I really gotta get to bed.
GIGI: Is that an invitation?
ALEX: I'm sorry. That was cheesy. I'm not good at this.
GIGI: I'm sorry. That was cheesy. I'm not good at this.
ALEX: Wait - what?
GIGI: Now you and I are in a relationship?
ALEX: Now you and I are in a relationship?
GIGI: Well, I'd say if we're not at relationship stationship, we're at least on the track.
ALEX: And why would you think that, exactly?
GIGI: Because there were - you know - signs.
ALEX: Really? Like what?
GIGI: Ummm - it was good to hear from me. You talked to me even when you were with a girl. I felt something.
ALEX: What are you talking about? What have I been saying since I met you? If a guy wants to date you HE WILL MAKE IT HAPPEN.
GIGI: ( SOFTLY ) Why would you do this?
ALEX: Why would you do this?
GIGI: I thought you were Watts.
ALEX: Why do women do this? Why do they build this stuff up in their minds, take each little thing a guy does and twist it into something else
GIGI: I'd rather be like that - than like you.
ALEX: Excuse me?
GIGI: Maybe I dissect each little thing, and put myself out there too much, and maybe I even thrive on the drama of it all but at least that means I still care. You think you've won because women are expendable to you? Sure, you don't get hurt or make an ass of yourself that way, but you don't fall in love that way, either. You haven't won, Alex. You're
GIGI: Hey Janine, I'm sorry it's so late, but I just - don't start picking out your bridesmaid dress, OK? I know this isn't the first time this has happened, it's just - this one wasn't about whether he liked me. I just really liked him.
BETH: You want anything else?
KEN: Yeah. Less of that cardboardy brown stuff. More regular people food.
BETH: The cardboardy brown stuff is called whole grain bread.
KEN: Maybe you could just fry me up a couple sausage links?
BETH: People who have just had heart attacks generally are not advised to eat animal fat, stuffed in synthetic casings.
KEN: Did I tell you that you're not only my favorite daughter, but you're also the prettiest? So much better looking than those other dogs. Seriously.
BETH: It's not gonna work this time. But I appreciate the effort.
STEVEN: Hey, Beth. Grab me a beer if you're going that way?
BETH: You might wanna kill the volume just a smidge. My mom is finally taking a nap.
DEVON: You think your dad really wants to hang on to all this vinyl? My collection could use a bunch of these.
BETH: Turn it the fuck down.
BETH: I finally got mom to lay down in the spare room. All we have left to eat is some old jelly and ramen noodles, so after I tackle some of these dishes, maybe we can go to the store. Our new brother is trying to co-opt dad's property before he's even dead.
CATHERINE: What am I gonna do without dad?
BETH: First of all, he's upstairs watching 'Oprah After The Show'.
LAURA: And second of all - you have us.
CATHERINE: But he's always been - the one who's there for me.
BETH: What about your husband? Where the hell is he?
CATHERINE: Playing ultimate frisbee. His team may make the quarterfinals.
GIGI: Do you know who it is?
JANINE: ( shaking her head "no" ) It doesn't matter.
GIGI: So are you going to - leave - him?
JANINE: Gigi, he's my husband. He's not just some guy that didn't call me back. And he did admit it to me. He didn't wait to get caught. That takes courage.
GIGI: It's OK.
JANINE: It's my fault, you know.
GIGI: I'm willing to accept my responsibility in this. I forced him into getting married. He wasn't ready.
JANINE: I'm willing to accept my responsibility in this. I forced him into getting married. He wasn't ready.
GIGI: Janine - this is not your fault.
JANINE: It is. I've - changed. I used to be fun. I was fun when we met.
GIGI: You're still fun.
JANINE: We never have sex anymore.
GIGI: Lots of couples got through lulls.
JANINE: No. We never have sex. Realistically, what did I expect him to do?
GIGI: I don't think that's really
JANINE: This is too small. I gotta tell Javier.
GIGI: 7/20/7 92.
JANINE: This tile. I gotta go. Tell Beth I took a personal day.
MARIEL: My first husband was unimpressive. I found him in bed with his big breasted secretary when I came home early from the Maldives. So unoriginal, it made me feel sorry for him. My second husband was a pinch more creative. Cheated on me with my sister - but made me believe that I was insane for being suspicious. At last - some intrigue, some mind games - though my sister's two year old eventually gave them up. But my last husband he was a gem. A veritable master at covering his tracks. I poured over his phone records, intercepted his credit card bills, had him followed on countless occasions - and never found a single shred of evidence. It wasn't until he died that I found out about the property he owned with his Austrian mistress. But the real master, I have to say is me. Three husbands countless boyfriends, and I haven't been caught yet.
ANNA: Oh my god, oh my god, oh my god.
BEN: It was all you, babe.
ANNA: Oh my god, oh my god, oh my god.
ANNA: OH. MY. GOD. This is really good news.
BEN: This is really good news.
ANNA: I cannot believe this. He liked my demo. Did you hear what he said? When he said it was hauntingly beautiful? Did you hear that part?
BEN: Yep. I was sitting right there.
ANNA: Thank you. Thank you so much.
BEN: How is it that every time I see your body, I'm shocked at how beautiful it is?
ANNA: Is -
BEN: Shit. I told Dana to get this lock fixed. One sec.
JANINE: Why do you even lock it?
BEN: I'd never get anything done if I didn't.
JANINE: Can I come in?
BEN: Of course.
JANINE: Sit down.
BEN: Janine, clearly a little nervous, goes to straddle Ben at his desk chair. Her skirt is way too long to do this, so she has to regroup, and hike up the skirt. Ben glances over at the closet.
JANINE: I don't know. I just thought - maybe we could, you know, relight the fire.
BEN: Honey, did you hear what I just said? I gotta get this offering statement out.
JANINE: Look, I am trying here. Do you want to save our marriage or don't you?
ALEX: OK - Tyrone you bus 4 through 6 - and pitch in with the servers when you -
TYRONE: No.I'm on 8 thru 10. I'm always on 8 through 10. Been working here 18 months doing 8 through 10.
ALEX: Right. Luis you take 4 through 6.
TYRONE: Dude. Luis quit like 10 months ago.
ALEX: Do we even need to have this meeting? Seriously? Does this serve any purpose?
KELLI ANN: Since you asked me 11 minutes ago? No, not a lot of phone traffic.
ALEX: KELLI ANN
KELLI ANN: It's happened to you.
ALEX: What has happened to me?
KELLI ANN: What's her name?
ALEX: KELLI ANN
KELLI ANN: The girl, Alex.
ALEX: There's no girl.
KELLI ANN: You can't hide it man. I know strung out and you are strung - out.
ALEX: Please -
KELLI ANN: This is amazing. Can't focus, right? Jumping every time your phone rings, checking your email 100 times a day. Wishing you could write songs. Feeling the need to bring up her name in random
ALEX: Kelli Ann smiles, and as she walks away -
KELLI ANN: Welcome to my world asshole.
JANINE: You sure I can't interest you in a little beef and broccoli? I'm treating.
BEN: I really gotta get this stuff done.
JANINE: OK. I'll see you at home. I love you.
BEN: ( covering his anger ) I love you too.
ANNA: You make me sick to my stomach. You are a disgusting excuse for a man -
BEN: I didn't want to do it, Anna. You know that it's you I want to be with -
ANNA: Are you kidding me? You will never lay a hand on me again. I may just be a piss poor girl from Dundalk who works at a gym - but I am so too good for you.
GIGI: Dino, thank you again for letting me pay over the phone. I assure you this late payment thing will never happen again. Yep just trying to trim some of the drama out of my life.
MANS' VOICE: Hi, Gigi. This is Bill.
GIGI: Ummm -
BILL: Alex's friend. We were supposed to meet up - but Alex told me the wrong day.
GIGI: Bill. So you do exist.
BILL: I do. And I'd love to buy you dinner sometime if you're game.
GIGI: Yes. Sure. Why not?
ANNA: I'm gonna go. I left the check on the counter. It should at least get you through this month.
MAYA: Thanks sweetie. I don't know what I would do without you.
ANNA: No, it's not that. I mean - yes, I'm broke - but it's not that. It's just - I'm just so lost mom. I've been seeing this guy - who is exciting and amazing and thoroughly unavailable. I thought he was - the one - but he turned out to be such an asshole.
MAYA: Conor -
ANNA: Yeah. Who I'm so horrible to. But he takes it. And he's - there. Waiting. But I just don't want to - I don't know -
MAYA: Settle? Like you think I did?
ANNA: Are you kidding? All you talk about are the things you didn't do, the people you wish you could have been with, the Tim Buckleys - anything but the life you actually had.
MAYA: Those are just dreams Anna.
ANNA: Like what?
MAYA: Like wishing you had.
ANNA: Hey, sweetie.
CONOR: See, why did you call me sweetie?
ANNA: Because we always call each other that.
CONOR: Anna doesn't have an answer for that.
ANNA: I know that I -
CONOR: Let me finish. Maybe it's my fault. Maybe I haven't been clear about what I want. So let me be clear. I love hanging out, but I am so attracted to you, and I just - I want both. I want to make love to you. I know that sounds kind of embarrassing coming out of my mouth - I just freaked myself out, too - but it's true. And I'm not sure what happened, or why we stopped - but I don't really care. I just
ANNA: Conor is STUNNED.
CONOR: I'm talking about really doing this. Like a full-on relationship.
ANNA: I'm talking about really doing this. Like a full-on relationship.
CONOR: I'm talking about really doing this. Like a full-on relationship.
ANNA: With me.
CONOR: With me.
ANNA: Did a bunch of gay people put you up to Please stop talking.
CONOR: Did a bunch of gay people put you up to Please stop talking.
ANNA: Please stop talking.
DEVON: Shit! Take him out. He's done.
GEORGE: Jesus. This isn't some exhibition game.
STEVEN: Could you
BETH: Did anyone have time to run to the store?
GEORGE: Nah, we're good. We just got drive I didn't mean for you.
BETH: I didn't mean for you.
NEIL: The dishes are all put away. There's a load of laundry still drying, but the other one is folded on top of the washer.
JANINE: Javier - does this mean what I think it means? So when you say "done" - you don't mean "we still need plumbing in the upstairs bathrooms done" - you mean "done done"?.Wow - you're amazing.OK.I'll call when I see it.Bye.
JANINE: YOU LYING SACK OF SHIT!
NEIL: It's been a while since I've been here. Turns out - that boat in the next mooring, looks like yours not yours.
BETH: It's been a while since I've been here. Turns out - that boat in the next mooring, looks like yours not yours.
NEIL: Oh no.
BETH: No, it's no problem. Nice guy. Invited me in for a white wine spritzer. Not sure he gets a lot of visitors.
NEIL: Of course. I really care about your dad. And I really love you. Even if I can't give you what you want.
BETH: You're what I want.
NEIL: And you'd really be OK if we take the marriage thing off the table?
BETH: If you promise to love me and be committed to me -
NEIL: I always have -
BETH: Wait, I'm not done. And snake the shower drain when my hair clogs it, and let me eat Wheat Thins in bed.
NEIL: I do.
BETH: I guess. But, you cannot bring those.
NEIL: What? You're just mad at me, and you're taking it out on the pants.
BETH: Look, I gotta win something. I let you win the big battle, so throw me a bone.
NEIL: OK. We're not getting married, but I'm chucking the pants.
BETH: Great. We both win.
ALEX: Hey, Gigi. It's Alex. I was just wondering how you were doing. It's been a little while since we've talked and I was wondering how you were doing.
TYRONE: I know. I know.
ALEX: I know. I know.
ANNA: You seriously get a ton of people bidding on this?
CONOR: I know it's crazy. But it's a neighborhood "in transition."
ANNA: So that means what - that hip gay people want to live out here?
CONOR: Yeah. Hip gay people, young couples, young families.
ANNA: Weird - it totally reminds me of the house I grew up in. I bet there is a -
CONOR: Well, the open house is tomorrow. But I have this one buyer. I mean, I want to see if his girlfriend likes it first -
ANNA: His girlfriend?
CONOR: I mean, I had this idea -
ANNA: An idea for the open house?
CONOR: No, an idea. For this house. For - me. To buy. And hopefully, if you like it and things continue to - you know.
ANNA: I can't do this Conor.
CONOR: OK. If it's too fast -
ANNA: No. I mean this. Any of this. What you're saying - what you're offering - is what every girl wants. It's what I've always wanted. It's just -
CONOR: You don't want it with me.
ANNA: Is it too late to dial it back to before - and just keep sleeping together?
CONOR: Is it too late to dial it back to before - and just keep sleeping together?
GIGI: So, Alex told me you work in finance.
BILL: Yes. Yes, I do. Finance.
GIGI: This is nice.
BILL: It is.
GIGI: A nice evening. And you planned it. And called me when you said you would. And showed up on time. Thank you, Bill.
BILL: You're very welcome.
GIGI: It was nice meeting you.
BILL: Thank you for a lovely evening.
GIGI: You, too.
GIGI: Did you forget something?
ALEX: Yeah. I did.
GIGI: Really? What did you forget?
ALEX: Alex reaches into his pocket and pulls out a PEN. THE
NEIL: How did all this stuff fit in here fine
BETH: I don't know. It expanded.
NEIL: What? I have no idea what you're -
BETH: We had a deal. These are not staying.
NEIL: That's really gonna free up a lot of They're going. I have a bag I'm taking to the Goodwill.
BETH: They're going. I have a bag I'm taking to the Goodwill.
NEIL: Okay, okay. You win. Just check to make sure there's nothing in the pockets before we give them away.
BETH: Yes. Of course, yes.
GIGI: You came all the way here - at 11 at night - to give me back a promotional I thought I better come up with some excuse to get over here. Isn't that how it's done?
ALEX: I thought I better come up with some excuse to get over here. Isn't that how it's done?
GIGI: Alex looks at Gigi for a long moment. He looks nervous.
ALEX: Look, I can't stop thinking about you. I drive by your place. I call and hang up. I'm turning into -
GIGI: He LAUGHS.
ALEX: Well, a wise person once told me that if a guy wants to be with a girl, he will make it happen. No matter what.
GIGI: Well, a wise person once told me that if a guy wants to be with a girl, he will make it happen. No matter what.
ALEX: Hmmm. Because when I was hurling my body onto yours - you did not seem to want to "make it happen."
GIGI: Hmmm. Because when I was hurling my body onto yours - you did not seem to want to "make it happen."
ALEX: Here's the thing about that. You were right. I've gotten so used to keeping myself at a safe distance from these women, having the power - that I didn't know what it felt like when I actually - fell - for one of them.
GIGI: Look, I've just been out with your friend Bill. And it just might be exactly what I need. No drama. He calls. He does what he says.
ALEX: I could do that stuff too.
GIGI: But you didn't. And that same wise person told me that I am the rule. That I have to stop thinking that every guy will change - stop thinking that I will be the
ALEX: You are my exception.
NATHAN: NATTILY DRESSED GAY
NATHAN: Dancing. Get your asses up here.
MARY: Hey, Conor. I'm Mary.
CONOR: You, too.
MARY: I'd love to.
BEN: - and a NOTE taped onto the carton: BEN - KNOCK YOURSELF
NEW GUY: It was nice meeting you.
THE END: Writers : Abby Kohn Marc Silverstein
