REVISED DRAFT: Converted to PDF by SCREENTALK EXT. CEDARS-SINAI - WIDE - DAY A monolith with alienating foregrounds. A bus pulls in on Beverly. NEIL McCAULEY and a nurse get off. Neil carries a paper bag and wears white pants like a hospital attendant. Neil is an ice-cold professional: very big, very tough. At 42 his short black hair is graying. He spent eight years in McNeil and three in San Quentin. He got out and hit the street in 1987. Four of the McNeil years were spent in the hole. Neil's voice is street, but his language is precise like an engineer's. He's very careful and very good. Neil runs a professional crew that pulls down high line, high number scores and does it anyway the score has to be taken down: if on the prowl ( a burglary ), that's fine; if they have to go in strong ( armed ), that's fine too. And if you get in their way, that's got to be your problem. His lifestyle is obsessively functional. There's no steady woman or any encumbrance. Neil McCauley keeps it so there's nothing he couldn't walk from in 30 seconds Right now, he enters the big double doors and pulls a white intern's coat from his paper bag.
ANGLE: Right now, he enters the big double doors and pulls a white intern's coat from his paper bag.
PROFILE: Nail crosses under an "EMERGENCY" sign and keeps going towards the exit doors.
CLERK: What you working on?
CHRIS: Drillin' some post holes into concrete .
CLERK: ( re: toolcase ) With that you can ream solid steel. Check, charge, or cash?
CHRIS: Cash. Put "Jack's Fencing" on the receipt.
CLERK: $788. 30
CLERK: ( continuing ) .that a good racket? I ought to get out from behind this ( takes receipt ) ( beat ) Take it easy.
CHRIS: ( takes receipt ) ( beat ) Take it easy.
CERRITO: Wrap this here up.
CLERK: Yessir. You're going to have a happy little girl.
CERRITO: Two. I got two girls.
CLERK: That's nice.
CERRITO: Yeah. And gimme those three masks there.
CERRITO: ( continuing ) Gimme Donald Duck, too
CLERK: ( does and laughs ) A little early for Halloween?
CERRITO: Yeah. Halloween's coming early this year. What do I owe you?
WIDE: The two bodies locked into the rhythms of their love-making, twisted in white sheets. OFF SCREEN a shower runs.
JUSTINE: . taking me out to breakfast?
HANNA: ( looks at watch ) Can't. Bosko's waiting..
LAUREN: ( passing door ) Hi Vincent. Mom, where's my
HANNA: Hi, sweetie.
JUSTINE: I saw them on the kitchen Want me to make coffee?
HANNA: ( to Lauren in other No school today?
JUSTINE: Then I don't know. He's already half an hour late.
HANNA: He gonna show? Or the son of a bitch gonna stand her up like last time?
JUSTINE: ( starting out of Want the coffee?
HANNA: I'm out of time.
JUSTINE: Falls back on the pillow, disappointed. It's as if she'd been stood-up. The bed sheet falls half off of her. She's exposed, vulnerable. She looks out the window, occluded by light muslin, away from us and exhales.
CERRITO: You Waingro?
WAINGRO: He climbs in. Cerrito pulls out. Waingro - delayed - offers his hand. Cerrito has to wait until he finishes his gear change to shake it. The timing's a little weird.
WAINGRO: ( continuing loud ) You're Cerrito huh? ( pause ) What kinda guy is this Neil?
CERRITO: ( loud )
WAINGRO: You guys always work together?
CERRITO: All the time.
WAINGRO: Real tight crew, huh?
CERRITO: That's right.
WAINGRO: This works good, maybe I could go again? Yeah. Stop talking, slick.
CERRITO: Yeah. Stop talking, slick.
TOWNER: ( into radio; low ) ( radio filter ) Got their air?
TOWNER: At a low level we HEAR POLICE CALLS.
RADIO ANNOUNCER: ( radio filter ) .Daddio's jazz patio on KDCA. Brought to you this fine day, which is A-okay, by Twister. Hey, mister, go out and buy a bottle of that Turn it off.
NEIL: Turn it off.
CERRITO: ( checks watch )
CHRIS: Their response time?
NEIL: Two minutes, fifty seconds.
DAY: With FLASHERS going. Suddenly it pulls diagonally across the narrow street, as if trying a three point turn: Driver of the armored truck slams on his brakes.
CERRITO'S FOOT: punches the accelerator.
COLLISION: We SLAM into it,
GUARD #1: ( into mike ) 211! We're being taken down!
TOWNER: ( into radio to Neil ) There's the call. Three minutes.
SHOTS: Neil with his Browning. Cerrito has an AR15 with its stock collapsed. Waingro has a 9mm. Beretta.
CHRIS: The bit has cut a 10" circle into the side through the armored plating. Now Chris heaves the drill aside, steps away, swings up his shotgun as.
CERRITO: swings a sledgehammer at the 10" disc. It falls inside pulls the pin and tosses a grenade into the hole. It EXPLODES and pours smoke.
NEIL: pulls the pin and tosses a grenade into the hole. It EXPLODES and pours smoke.
NEIL: ( yelling after it ) Next one blows you up! Out! ( beat;'shouts )
NEIL: Up against the wall!
THE DRIVER: tries to twist away as a reflex. Cerrito cracks him in the face with the AR15, driving him to the wall.
NEIL'S STOPWATCH: Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org 12.
NEIL: ( to Chris ) 8o seconds left. Move it.
WAINGRO: behind the Beautiful Lady mask: trying hard to do good. His gun jumps from Guard to Guard to Guard.
NEIL: looks at Waingro. WIDEN. Waingro's aware of Neil's He slaps the back of Guard Two's head with the gun barrel.
WAINGRO: ( to Guard Two ) Flatten - up against it! Higher!
GUARD TWO: ( a big, boastful .you didn't have that gun..
WAINGRO: ( cuts in; cool ) That's true, slick, cause you're a real tough guy. But he has the gun. And me, too. So shut the fuck up.
CERRITO: ( cuts in; cool ) That's true, slick, cause you're a real tough guy. But he has the gun. And me, too. So shut the fuck up.
WIDE: Neil and Chris emerge from the van with one manila envelope.
NEIL: Move out! 38 seconds left!
ANGLE: Guard Two is blown up against the wall. Driver moves.
NEIL: leaving, spins.
DRIVER: reaching for a two-inch hammerless .38 back-up tucked in his boot. As he brings it up.
CERRITO'S AR15: covers Guard One. Guard One stares at the men in the masks. Once killing begins, he knows what will happen. Cerrito looks at Neil.
NEIL: angry; nods.
CERRITO: kills Guard One with THREE SHOTS.
ON AMBULANCE: Neil literally throws Waingro into the back. INT. AMBULANCE - ON CERRITO - DAY driving, lays rubber down the alley. ON NEIL at watch.
NEIL: ( disgusted ) Ten. Nine. ( tosses the watch; Blew the margin. Here we come.
TOWNER: ( into radio ) One on your tail.
NEIL: ( V.O. ) Here we come.
TOWNER: guns the engine.
ANGLE: . plows through a rack of pumps, takes out the air and water reservoirs and wraps itself around a lamppost.
NATE: A million, six at 40 cents onna dollar's 640. Here's a hundred forty thou front money. Get you the rest, 2-3 days.
NATE: What happened out there?
NEIL: I don't want to talk about it.
NATE: ( re-examining Wait a minute.
NEIL: What's the matter?
NATE: ( laughs ) You know who these belong to?
NEIL: ( takes manila "Malibu Securities .
NATE: You know John Van Zant?
NEIL: Malibu Securities is a brokerage he controls. Planned bankruptcies, made out during the S&L's, money laundering.
NATE: Malibu Securities is a brokerage he controls. Planned bankruptcies, made out during the S&L's, money laundering.
NATE: ( continuing; laughs ) You ripped off his Treasury So what?
NEIL: So what?
NATE: That's the point. On top of collecting his insurance, maybe he wants to buy back his bonds. From him I can get you 60 cents on the dollar instead of 40. Means an extra 320 to you.
NEIL: Try it on.
NATE: You know Cezar Kelso?
NEIL: By reputation.
NATE: He's got this score he's putting out and wants you to look at.
NEIL: What do I need look at his score for? I got my own.
NATE: He said you'll get near eight figures. Very clean.
NEIL: ( beat; then: ) 9:00a.M. tomorrow.
NATE: Take it easy.
WIDE: an L1011 ROARS overhead. Neil pulls out.
HEINZ: Masks, guns, radios - all left behind. No prints.
HANNA: What about the crash, the white
HEINZ: Hasn't turned up. Got a witness: janitor next door.
HANNA: I.D. anybody? Plate? Shhaaapes . One big. One thin. He heard
HEINZ: Shhaaapes . One big. One thin. He heard
HANNA: ( re: body outlines ) What about them?
DRUCKER: According to the janitor, he. Started mouthing off to one of the gunmen.
HANNA: Oh, that was smart.
DRUCKER: I figure the other went for. . that gun when the shooting started. One guy called a guard Yeah. And they ignored the loose 'Cause they had no time, cause they knew our response time, cause they were on our air.
HANNA: Yeah. And they ignored the loose 'Cause they had no time, cause they knew our response time, cause they were on our air.
DRUCKER: Yeah. And they ignored the loose 'Cause they had no time, cause they knew our response time, cause they were on our air.
HANNA: 'Cause they had no time, cause they knew our response time, cause they were on our air.
HEINZ: You recognize their m.o.?
HANNA: Yeah. Their m.o. is that they are good. Once it escalated into a Murder One beef for all of them after they killed the first two, they popped guard number three 'cause it didn't rake any difference anymore, so why leave a living witness? Drop of a hat? They'll rock and roll. Also: the way they went into the side indicates they are equipped to go in on the prowl. So also start looking for recent highline burgularies that have 'mystified' us. Run the "slick" bit to the FBI and see what it kicks out.
DRUCKER: I called it in already.
HANNA: ( to Casals ) Split the fences. I'll take Cuzomano and Torena. You take the East side. Go through the tapes of who we been listening ( to Drucker ) Hang in with Forensics on all physical evidence. ( to Bosko ) How'd they know the route of the van and what it was carrying? Does Gage print the day's routes? What do they do with the printouts? Who collects their trash? Run makes on all their middlemanagement. Did someone give this score up? ( beat ) Check the three guards. See if one of them was a tipster.
BOSKO: What's the vibe: home-grown or Out-of-town. Frankly, I hope they are scoring once and passing through. And I doubt it.
HANNA: Out-of-town. Frankly, I hope they are scoring once and passing through. And I doubt it.
HEINZ: This going to stay in Area?
HANNA: This look like boosters working the local Seven Eleven to you? It goes to Major Crime. Go to work.
WAINGRO: Anybody want some pie?
CERRITO: looks at Waingro, sips his coffee, and looks away again Waingro is nervous.
CHRIS: sees something in the parking lot.
CLOSE: The four men huddle together and talk in a whisper. Neil pulls out three yellow envelopes, presumably full of money. Neil will talk about Waingro in the third person as if he
NEIL: ( whispered ) This is a partial split, but I took out of ours - every - to make up. ( Waingro's ) .his full end. Because I want to settle him up and get rid of this jagoff right now.
CERRITO: Chris nods. Waingro's speechless. Neil flips him an Waingro doesn't move.
NEIL: ( whispering ) Fuck off.
WAINGRO: ( whispered; tense ) I had to dust him! ( whispered ) Electricity and chemicals a little fucked up? ( flick ) You a shooter? Speed? What?
NEIL: ( whispered ) Electricity and chemicals a little fucked up? ( flick ) You a shooter? Speed? What?
NEIL: ( continuing; You didn't have to. Now we got extra heat off a clean score.
NEIL: knees Waingro in the stomach. Waingro folds over. Neil slams both open palms on Waingro's ears and knees him in the face. Waingro sprawls over a car hood and falls off.
CERRITO: ( low ) Hold it.
CHARLENE: ( counts the money ) Where's the rest?
CHRIS: That's it.
CHARLENE: Eight thousand dollars? You gotta be kidding me! I squared the bookies and we had to pay off some guy and were short to start 'cause the rest is comin', in a coupla days. So don't sweat it. We're late.
CHRIS: ( off-handed ) I squared the bookies and we had to pay off some guy and were short to start 'cause the rest is comin', in a coupla days. So don't sweat it. ( checks watch ) We're late.
CHARLENE: Listen to me. "As The World Turns" can get interrupted with a news flash of you splattered all over the street .
CHARLENE: ( continuing; running I can get sent up on an accessory beef. Your son, Dominick, winds up in a home. For $8,000? ( voice breaks ) Honey, for $8,000, it ain't worth the risk. Risk versus reward? Don't worry about money. Neil's ( checks watch ) Hey, if we're goin', let's go.
CHRIS: Don't worry about money. Neil's Hey, if we're goin', let's go.
CHARLENE: Where's the club you were going to open?
CHRIS: Here comes the "showgirl with a future" bit.
CHARLEJ: Shut up! I left for a good thing. Why am I even talking to you? I can't talk to you. All you are is a child growin' older.
CHRIS: The hell's that mean?
CHARLENE: It means we're not making forward progress like real adults and you won't listen.
CHRIS: I told you: me and Neil got planned .
CHARLENE: "Me and Neil." I'm married to you, now. This isn't the fucking Don't mouth off to me!
CHRIS: Don't mouth off to me!
CHARLENE: ( screams ) I want out of here!
CHRIS: ( shouts ) Well there's the fucking door! ( opens it ) Only leave Dominick, the bank book and the car keys on the kitchen table!
CHARLENE: You can keep that other crap! But Dominick goes with me.
CHRIS: ( suddenly low ) I'll find ya and kill you, you bitch, wherever you are - you ever try to take Dominick away from me.
ELAINE: ( searching ) You okay?
CERRITO: ( searching ) You okay?
ELAINE: ( searching ) You okay?
CERRITO: ( nods; gives her Put this away.
ANITA: ( whispers ) Daddy, what's in the box?
CERRITO: What do you care?
CERRITO: ( continuing ) Open it up.
NEIL: ( looks ) No thanks.
NEIL: ( continuing ) You closing in a few minutes?
EADY: ( yawns ) Excuse me. ( beat ) You interested in metals?
NEIL: ( alert ) ( lies ) It's the color reproduction of these plates.
EADY: We have a first edition of Kandinsky's Theory of Color with hand pulled lithographic prints bound in. Would you like see
NEIL: Crossing store.
EADY: I see you in here before.
NEIL: You're open late. Not many open this late. What's your name?
EADY: Eady. Eady Tse. What's yours?
NEIL: ( lies ) Bukowski. Neil Bukowski.
HANNA: ( cuts in ) Bobby, it's me.
HANNA: Albert Torena call me back?
HANNA: Where have you been?
JUSTINE: Where have you been?
HANNA: Work. Harvey show or'd Lauren get stood up again?
JUSTINE: He didn't even call her.
HANNA: What an asshole. She okay?
JUSTINE: She's been in her room all day and won't talk. So "no," she's not okay. And neither am I. If I try to create something like a mood between us you back away. I made a great dinner for us. That was four hours ago. At least get yourself a plate.
HANNA: There's three dead bodies in an alley off Adams. I'm really sorry the lamb got
HANNA: Looking after her is tired. Very tired. He doesn't know why he said what he did. He regrets it. So he turns on his TV to watch the news and his eyes glaze
EADY: What do you do?
NEIL: ( looks at her, then Swimming pools. Institutional. Schools, State, counties. I'm on the sales end.
EADY: ( simply ) Yeah. Especially fine art books. I study them.
NEIL: Yeah? Like what?
NEIL: ( continuing ) Tell me.
EADY: There's a Skira edition of Delacroix charcoal sketches, I What else?
NEIL: What else?
EADY: Asian art work.
NEIL: City of lights.
EADY: I flew over the arctic once at 40,000 feet. The moonlight was blue on all the snow. It felt like that.
NEIL: I flew over the arctic once at 40,000 feet. The moonlight was blue on all the snow. It felt like that.
EADY: Do you travel a lot?
NEIL: Are you lonely?
EADY: Are you lonely?
NEIL: I'm alone. Not lonely. I get lonely.
NEIL: ( continuing ) I get lonely.
EADY: I get lonely.
NEIL'S HAND: enters with a glass of water wrapped in a paper napkin and sets it on the bedside table.
HANNA: You were supposed to get back to me last night. So where the fuck were you, Albert?
ALBERT: I couldn't break free, man!
HANNA: I oughta violate your ass right I was all night hitting up Los vatos like one of those flamenco matador guys. Cuttin' in real smooth. Generating leads and shit. I'm a dancer, man!
ALBERT: I was all night hitting up Los vatos like one of those flamenco matador guys. Cuttin' in real smooth. Generating leads and shit. I'm a dancer, man!
HANNA: You're a bust-out speed freak jackin' metamphetamine again. I'm in a hurry.
ALBERT: You talk to my brother, Raoul. He meet you tonight at.
HANNA: No. Right now.
ALBERT: I implore him, man. But he say He in Phoenix. Tonight's the best I can do for you. The Zebra on Crenshaw. Eleven o'clock.
HANNA: You be there, too.
ALBERT: Mon, I go
HANNA: Be there!
CEZAR: I picked you out to pitch it to first, but don't think you're the only action in town and I'm giving it away. 'Cause I'm not.
NEIL: What is it?
CEZAR: A bank. On Thursdays it gets cash deposits for distribution to other branches. The branches have to buttress their cash accounts to handle Friday payroll checks from a Toyota and Nissan plant, a steel mill and two refineries. One day a week, Thursday, the main branch carries the full whack.
NEIL: You want a $100,000 advance, against a full 101. Why?
CEZAR: 'Cause I can get it. 'Cause this is the best thing I seen in three years. 'Cause a screw-up makes 10 percent of nothin' equal nothin'. And 'cause those are the terms and they ain't On the prowl or strong?
NEIL: On the prowl or strong?
CEZAR: Strong. Through the front door. During the day.
NEIL: How many guys?
CEZAR: Four. Three plus a driver.
NEIL: That's not a $100,000 worth anything. You're giving me an address to what's strictly a cowboy score: "Get the guns and let's go!" We smash, grab and boogie while they hit the alarm.
CEZAR: Three alarms. And that's why the price. 'Cause you chop-in through the roof the night before on the prowl and bypass 'em. I got circuit diagrams, blue prints, the works. So yeah, they hit the alarms, but nothing gonna Do I have to kill people?
NEIL: Do I have to kill people?
CEZAR: I doubt it. Two men have the two keys to open the box.
NEIL: Full architectural, plumbing and electric, camera placements?
CEZAR: All of it.
NEIL: What do you estimate?
CEZAR: Eight point, one. Eight point, two million dollars.
CEZAR: ( continuing ) Where's Nate?
NEIL: He hadda make a call. You're on. Here's five grand earnest money. You get the rest after lunch.
NATE: Look, Van Zant. Nobody knew the merch was yours or they would have respected it. Be that as it may: now you get 100% from the insurance company and you're even, plus you can get the bonds back for 60 cents onna dollar. You make an additional 40%. Your operation doesn't skip a beat, and everybody's making
VAN ZANT: ( into phone ) Sure. You got a deal.
VAN ZANT: ( into phone ) Absolutely. You have your man call me to set the meet.
VAN ZANT: ( into phone ) I don't want to involve extra people. What the fuck do I want all kinds of people meeting each other for?
VAN ZANT: ( into phone ) Nice talking to you. ( click ) Van Zant hangs up. He's a tall avuncular man with a flabby belly and Arrow shirts: an accountant. HUGH BENNY, a very large juice collector, is in the office.
HUGH: ( incredulous ) You gonna deal with these people?
VAN ZANT: So word hits the streets it's okay to steal my stuff? I'm gonna kill the sonsa-bitches.
NEIL: I bought it.
NATE: What I tell you?
NEIL: The bonds?
NATE: We're on. You call him . and set a meet.
NEIL: How is he?
NATE: Very cool. He's a businessman.
LILLIAN: Here it is. You okay?
BREEDAN: Don 't worry, baby. Gonna do
BREEDAN: ( has to shout ) I'm Breedan. You Solenko?
SOLENKO: ( shouts ) Yeah. Fucking hillbilly grill ran didn't show. Been here since 4:30. You know this kinda Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org 38.
BREEDAN: ( shouts ) The grill. Yeah.
SOLENKO: ( shouts ) Grill? Empty the garbage, mopout the toilets. You gimme a hard time, I'll find something to violate you back and blow your ( beat ) You kick back 25% of your salary to me under the table. Grierson your parole officer? Right?
BREEDAN: ( shouts OVER NOISE ) ( shouts back ) Check it out. Change in the back. Hurry up.
SOLENKO: ( shouts back ) Check it out. Change in the back. Hurry up.
DAY: Hears a buzzer and looks up. His eyes go to a video VIDEO MONITOR: HANNA among the racks and tv sets playing the sane soap.
HANNA: Whaddaya hear, whaddaya say?.
CUZOMANO: Hiya, Vincent. About what?
HANNA: About this crew that knocked down three guards yesterday and took a Gates Armored truck. Bearer Bonds. Start making calls.
CUZOMANO: ( into phone ) It's Cuzomano. Get me Francis. ( while we're waiting ) How'd I hear about this?
HANNA: Ridin' the airwaves. On every news channel. Turn on a fucking Try to broker the Bonds. Make some money. Then you'll shift into Flip-o-matic and tell me who they are. And what they are doing next.
CUZOMANO: ( Francis is on the Hey, Francis! ( Francis answers ) That score went down yesterday? ( beat ) Yeah, I'm lookin' to handle all or a piece of the merch. All I got are yo-yo's. One brings me a container of Armani suits? He didn't know they were knockoffs. Schmuck stole knockoffs. They should make stupidity a felony. ( beat ) You hear who they been downed
NEIL: comes out of the bedroom with a pillow. He yanks Christ shoes off. Neil punches a number. RINGING. Then:
NEIL: ( into phone ) Chris is here. I called so you shouldn't worry. What's wrong?
CHARLENE: ( into phone; wary ) Husband and wife stuff. That's ( phone filter ) He can sleep it off here.
CHARLENE: ( into phone ) Thanks, Neil.
NEIL: What happened to you?
CHRIS: When you going to get some When I get around to it.
NEIL: When I get around to it.
CHRIS: My mouth tastes like a sewer.
CHRIS: ( continuing; comes Charlene's going to leave me.
NEIL: ( quietly ) There ain't no steaks in the With everything we been taking?
CHRIS: There ain't no steaks in the With everything we been taking?
NEIL: With everything we been taking?
CHRIS: Last trip to Vegas and the Superbowl took care of that. When you gonna get an old lady?
NEIL: When I get around to it. You got something else on the side?
CHRIS: Nothing regular.
NEIL: ( quiet ) She got another man?
CHRIS: ( quietly ) You sure?
NEIL: ( quietly ) You sure?
CHRIS: ( rising ) Yeah, I'm sure.
NEIL: Jimmy - whatsisname - Bohunk, in the joint used to say: "On the street you wanna be makin' roves, you don't put anything in your life you can't walk out on in 30 seconds flat if you spot heat around the corner."
CHRIS: Jimmy Banghart. And to hell with Jimmy Banghart. I'd rather go ten rounds with Jesus Christ than fuck with her. But she and Dominick save my life, man; everyday. Everyday.
NEIL: Their feelings and understanding run deep. Chris is committed to making it work.
CHRIS: Their feelings and understanding run deep. Chris is committed to making it work.
NEIL: Taking delivery from Van Zant on the rest of the armored car cash. I gotta drop a deposit on Kelso. He's got a bank score.
CHRIS: What about the platinum? It's ready to fall .
NEIL: That goes, too. Meet me at the coffee shop at noon. I got stuff to do.
MARCIANO: ( into phone )
CHARLENE: ( into phone ) ( into phone ) I've had it with him. I've had it. Can you get us out of here?
CHARLENE: ( into phone ) I've had it with him. I've had it. Can you get us out of here?
MARCIANO: ( into phone ) Absolutely. I got a coupla orders to write. Meet you at 12.
NEIL: How you doing?
EADY: ( into phone ) Neil. I wondered when you'd ( phone filter ) I been real busy.
EADY: ( into phone )
EADY: ( into phone ) I was worried. was just. ( uncomfortable ) .the one night. You know?
EADY: ( into phone ) Me either.
NEIL: ( to Cook ) Change for a dollar?
COOK: There you go, honey.
NEIL DIALS: TELEPHONIST ( V.O. ) ( phone filter )
NEIL: ( into phone ) Yeah. Van Zant.
NEIL: ( into phone ) About the merchandise. What's the story?
NEIL: ( into phone )
NEIL: Open up.
NEIL: Who was that guy?
CHARLENE: I won't tell you.
NEIL: Neil kicks the waste can out of the way. It clatters across the room.
NEIL: ( continuing ) We got to know who he is!
CHARLENE: Nobody, Neil! A liquor wholesaler from Las Vegas. Alan Marciano.
NEIL: What he tell you? How connected he is? Get you a spot in a show?
CHARLENE: I figured it out for myself!
NEIL: Chris is gonna straighten it up with you. And you .
CHARLENE: It's too late! I'm sick of it! I'm sick of you.
NEIL: I'm not part of your situation!
NEIL: ( continuing ) Not anymore. And Chris has got two big jobs back-to-bick. You will give Chris this shot. ( beat ) After that, he fucks up, then ( beat ) I will finance setting you up, separate, myself. Dominick will go with you. And my word counts. But right now he is puttin' it all on the line. So for the three of you, you are goin', to give Chris one more shot.
NEIL: ( continuing; quietly ) Now that is what it is gonna be
CHARLENE: ( quietly ) All right.
ALPHONSE: Cuz, one day you get coldblasted with that shit.
HANNA: Ain't gonna be you, mo-fo.
ALPHONSE: ( low ) Homeboys talkin' about it. Nothin' solid. Just B-boy jive 'bout outta-towners. Crew's from outta town. I hear something; I drop a dime.
HANNA: You holdin'?
ALPHONSE: Onna house.
HANNA: What do you got?
RAOUL: ( conspiratorial ) This crew's ripping Porsches out of Orange County. Horrell, Piper and Voight. They're working in the back of a trim shop on Irvine. Somebody was to pay him a visit this weekend, they'd find a metallic blue Turbo.
HANNA: .lookin' for me to rid you of your competition?
RAOUL: I'm a good citizen.
HANNA: You got something to say, or Mi carnal: if I tell you what I got to tell you, how do I know you gonna do what the fuck I just told you I need to get done?
RAOUL: Mi carnal: if I tell you what I got to tell you, how do I know you gonna do what the fuck I just told you I need to get done?
ALBERT: ( alarmed ) Raoul, Hanna do what he say! That's why I reached for you..
HANNA: I'm not your 'carnal, you little And you 'know' 'cause I say so. after I hear what you got to tell me!
RAOUL: Okay! Okay.
RAOUL: ( continuing ) This is valuable shit! I could get killed telling you this shit!
HANNA: You can get killed . walking down the street.
RAOUL: ( whisper ) A dude I knew in McNeil's been out a couple, three years.
HANNA: He's an action junkie. If he'd said nothin', I'd a thought nothin'. But he goes on and on into extra overtime on how he ain't been do-in' nothin' and then I know this cat's got something goin' down.
RAOUL: He's an action junkie. If he'd said nothin', I'd a thought nothin'. But he goes on and on into extra overtime on how he ain't been do-in' nothin' and then I know this cat's got something goin' down.
HANNA: ( to Albert ) What's wrong with you? You drag me here to waste my time like ( to Raoul ) You saw a guy on the street. who's an ex-con?
RAOUL: .what do you expect for that? A Junior G-Man badge?
HANNA: .what do you expect for that? A Junior G-Man badge?
RAOUL: You gonna make the call on the Are you kidding?
HANNA: Are you kidding?
RAOUL: I'm telling you this slick is double-duty! A real doubleblank Huh . ?
HANNA: Huh . ?
RAOUL: Huh . ?
HANNA: You said "slick."
RAOUL: Yeah, that's what he calls people.
HANNA: Tell me about him.
RAOUL: ( thinks ) Six feet, built. Lotta jailhouse tattoos. Peacock right here. Probably was a shooter once Heavy time: Attica, Marion, could do a nickel or dine standing on his
HANNA: ( leans in ) What's his . name..
RAOUL: ( easy ) Cerrito. Michael Cerrito.
BOSKO: ( into phone; Two for murder one. Eleven for armed robbery. Three convictions. Two out of a three year beef in Attica. Three years in Statesville. Five years in Riker's Island off a knock-back to involuntary manslaughter Narcotics record. Methadone treatment. Two kids. Wife's named Elaine. Strictly a cowboy.
SCHWARTZ: Drucker, Casals and me, boss
BOSKO: ( re: phone ) Richie the Medical Examiner's ( into phone ) Conference him in. ( clicks ) Yeah? Richie?
HANNA: ( into phone ) Conference him in. ( clicks ) Yeah? Richie?
RICHIE: ( to Hanna ) Here's how we found her.
HANNA: is too controlled. Anger's underneath.
HANNA: How old?
RICHIE: Sixteen, seventeen.
HANNA: How'd she die, Richie?
RICHIE: Blunt instrument. Cerebral Who are they?
HANNA: Who are they?
RICHIE: ( low; shrugs ) It's fucked up. Somebody inside knew the girl and called the Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org 54.
HANNA: Oh, this is nice.
RICHIE: I wanted you to see this 'cause I got a feeling it's serial and gonna end up in your court.
HANNA: Homicide getting anywhere?
RICHIE: Hanna rises. The mother's arguing with the man cop because she wants to see. Horror and hysteria blossoming through shock. She pushes the uniformed cop of the way. Hanna goes to try to help. They grapple.
MOTHER: ( reaches out ) Baby! Where's my baby.!
NEIL: You keep your hands in sight! I tell you what to do, how to do Yessir. I'm just the delivery Of the two vehicles. Out of the covered bed of the pick-up a small man slowly slips out.
DRIVER: Yessir. I'm just the delivery Of the two vehicles. Out of the covered bed of the pick-up a small man slowly slips out.
REAR SHOTS: Of the two vehicles. Out of the covered bed of the pick-up a small man slowly slips out.
MAN: crawls under the pick-up and Neil's car and emerges on the passenger side behind Neil's rear wheel in Neil's blind spot. He inches towards the window. He carries a 15-shot Colt .22 Woodsman with a huge silencer. He is totally relaxed and professional.
NEIL: concentrates on the driver, who's calm.
NEIL: Now, with your right hand only: throw the envelope in my back
DRIVER: Starts to reach for the envelope and tosses it into Neil's sees his eyes dart. Neil glances at his right rear view NEIL'S POV: MAN with the silenced .22.
NEIL: sees his eyes dart. Neil glances at his right rear view NEIL'S POV: MAN with the silenced .22.
NEIL: approaches the fallen Gunman and with the 9mm. Browning at his temple, kicks away the .22.
GUNMAN: ( coughs blood ) Can I Make it?
NEIL: You're all done, pal.
GUNMAN: Do it.
NEIL: aims. FIRES ONCE.
VAN ZANT: Yeah. Who's this?
VAN ZANT: This kid I sent to straighten you up on the money. didn't call. Is . uh. everything Tell you what: keep the money.
NEIL: ( laid back ) Tell you what: keep the money.
VAN ZANT: ( slow ) ". keep . the . money."
NEIL: ( slow ) ". keep . the . money."
VAN ZANT: ( fast ) It's a lot of money! What are you doing?
NEIL: ( slow ) What am I doin' I'm talking into an empty telephone.
VAN ZANT: I don't understand.
NEIL: ( matter of fact ) 'Cause there is a dead man on the other end of this line.
VAN ZANT: ( shouts ) Who are these people? Huh?!
NEIL: ( into phone ) You got a clean line?
KELSO: ( into phone ) ( Phone filter ) I got a delay dropping the $50,000.
KELSO: ( into phone ) You don't have a delay. What you don't have is a deal. ( beat ) Swing by and collect your envelope sometime. Goodbye.
NEIL: ( into phone ) You're going to wait for me for a week. I'll buy a week with the five. It's above and beyond the fifty and if I wash, you keep it. ( beat ) You're going to wait for me 'cause you want me to take it down. You know it's got better odds with me in. ( pause ) Now do we have an understanding?
VOICES: .Happy anniversary to you. Happy anniversary dear Michael and Elaine. Happy anniversary to you.
NIGHT: It's a LOUD TORRENT - TILT UP TO THREE SHOT: Neil, Cerrito and Chris are clustered around the sink. The water runs seemingly aimlessly. It also would drown out a bug.
NEIL: ( loud over water ) We'll down platinum through Nate. The deal is 72% of today's quote on the Bourse in the New York ( loud over water ) You got the black boxes for the ( loud over water ) Yeah. Towner delivered. They're in the drop.
CERRITO: ( loud over water ) You got the black boxes for the ( loud over water ) Yeah. Towner delivered. They're in the drop.
CHRIS: ( loud over water ) Yeah. Towner delivered. They're in the drop.
NEIL: ( loud over water ) We pass by couple times tomorrow afternoon. Check nothing strange in the neighborhood. Tomorrow night: we take it down. You set on the rear door.
CHRIS: ( loud over water ) I'm going to punch it. ( beat ) What do we do about Van Zant?
NEIL: ( loud over water ) Kill him.after the score.
CHRIS: ( loud ) ( loud ) We'll use Nate's advance off the platinum when I down the merch to pay Kelso for the bank package.
NEIL: ( loud ) We'll use Nate's advance off the platinum when I down the merch to pay Kelso for the bank package.
CHRIS: ( quietly ) You okay?
CHARLENE: I'm fine.
CHRIS: ( arm around her ) Makin' it happen this time.
CHARLENE: I hope so. I really hope so.
NEIL: looks at Charlene.
CHARLENE: sees and holds his look and then her attention shifts to checks his watch. Waiter approaches Neil with the bill.
NEIL: checks his watch. Waiter approaches Neil with the bill.
MICHAEL: ( to Neil ) Let me have it!
CHRIS: Let me have it!
NEIL: ( smiles ) I got it.
DRUCKER: Cerrito, the wide one. He's hugged twice. One if he finds it behind the wheel wall. The back-up's in the firewall. We got their plates.
CASALS: One with the hair is Shiherlis. Got a revolving tail and a tap on the house phone.
DRUCKER: One with the hair is Shiherlis. Got a revolving tail and a tap on the house phone.
HANNA: ( re Neil ) Who's the big guy?
DRUCKER: First time we're seeing him. Next time this crew scores? When they walk in that door? They will get the surprise of a
HANNA: Next time this crew scores? When they walk in that door? They will get the surprise of a
NEIL: ( holds her close: Come away with me.
EADY: ( surprised ) New Zealand.
NEIL: New Zealand.
EADY: You're kidding.
NEIL: You're kidding.
EADY: You're kidding.
NEIL: What's stopping you? What's I don't know you.
EADY: ( laughs ) I don't know you.
NEIL: What's to know?
EADY: Are you married?
NEIL: ( laughs ) Way you come and go.
EADY: Way you come and go.
NEIL: I deal with state officials. County. Weird hours. A lot of traveling, entertaining. The last thing I am is married.
EADY: You don't know me at all, Neil.
NEIL: I know enough.
EADY: My father wanted me to marry someone in Taipei. It was like I was a piece of furniture: "Go be his wife." After I left he won't talk to me. Because I went on my own. I can't let people tell roe what to do again. And that trust comes from knowing someone over time. This is hard between us for me. Because I like you very much.
NEIL: I have to leave. Come away with No one will ever tell you what to do. You'll never lose yourself with me.
PROSTITUTE: ( tired ) Hey, baby.
WAINGRO: Showed you a good time? Huh?
PROSTITUTE: Oh, yeah. You fly. You cool.
WAINGRO: Don't lie to me. I can always tell when people lie to me.
PROSTITUTE: I ain't lyin'! You a hot dog. You a cowboy. You hung like a horse and this was the monster fuck of my young life. Now I gotta get my ass streetside.
WAINGRO: You don't have a truth-telling The fuck's wrong with you?
PROSTITUTE: The fuck's wrong with you?
PROSTITUTE: on her stomach on the floor, dazed. Waingro kicks her and throws a small table at her. It smashes apart.
WAINGRO: ( shouts ) You think I'm some john? I'm a stone killer! I'm a sky-blue bad ass, bitch!
BARTENDER: ( tired smile ) Once again?
WAINGRO: ( feeling good now ) Sure, good buddy. Set it up.
BARTENDER: pours and Waingro knocks it back, watches the Asian dancer and pops a five and a ten to him across the bar.
WAINGRO: I'm looking to get into something.
BARTENDER: ( smiles ) Yeah? Where you been?
WAINGRO: Chino, Tracy. I'm a cowboy, heavy-hitter. Billy Ricketts said to come see you.
BARTENDER: Go see this guy. This guy always putting guys on.
WAINGRO: Another woman takes Waingro's eyes. He spins around on his bar stool and grabs her arm as she passes. Big smile. Breedan's woman. She, too, is a dancer and her shift's over. She's wearing a raincoat over tights and a sweatshirt She jerks her arm away.
LILLIAN: Breedan's woman. She, too, is a dancer and her shift's over. She's wearing a raincoat over tights and a sweatshirt She jerks her arm away.
LILLIAN: ( heavy ) Get your fucking hand off my
BREEDAN: LILLIAN ( O.S. )
BREEDAN: I got any left?
LILLIAN: There's other paychecks. You blow it off. It's worth it, baby, cause you mess with that man and you be violated right back to San Quentin. So you got to handle it 'til we get you a different job.
BREEDAN: ( energy ) Yeah. That motherfucker ain't invented the hard time this gangster can't handle!. ( crashes ) Why you stickin' with me, Lillian?
LILLIAN: 'Cause I'm proud of you. Proud you my man.
BREEDAN: ( cracks up ) Proud of me?
LILLIAN: ( beat ) Come on home.
BRUCE: ( into radio ) ( to Hanna ) Captain Jackson wants to know what's goin' on.
HANNA: ( into his radio ) Nothing. Clear the air.
HANNA: .who shakes his head "no." He puts a finger over his lips meaning silence. Hanna looks at the clock. It's 12:03 a.m. Hanna takes a deep breath. He closes and opens his eyes. They wait.
CERRITO: in lineman's gear is out of the car and he quickly climbs the telephone pole like an experienced lineman. The telephone pole is next to the roof upon which Jackson and the SWAT Team are staked-out.
HANNA: gestures for Bruce to quiet down.
JACKSON: ( into walkie-talkie ) ( pissed; into mike ) Fell back to see if the alarm bypasses held. If they did, they'll be back. Stay the fuck off the radio!
HANNA: ( pissed; into mike ) Fell back to see if the alarm bypasses held. If they did, they'll be back. Stay the fuck off the radio!
CHRIS: sets up a heavy drill and tapes a template with drill points marked to the door.
HANNA: calms Bruce with hand gestures.
WIDE: The clock says 2:00 a.m.
HANNA: ( tense whisper ) Quiet! !
NEIL: ( he decides; whispers ) .We walk.
CHRIS: ( tense whisper; re: I'm 60 seconds away. It's a rat or something.
NEIL: ( whispers ) It is not an animal sound. We are out of here.
CHRIS: ( tense whisper ) We need the cash!!
NEIL: ( tense whisper; We walk!! Now. ( into radio; They're leaving. Why are they
JACKSON: ( into radio; They're leaving. Why are they
HANNA: ( cuts him off; into Let em go. We got nothing! Not even a burglary. They didn't fucking steal anything yet. Don't you get it? All we've got's breaking and entry.
HANNA: The fuck you aren't! That's exactly what you are gonna do. It's my investigation. And my authority supersedes your rank! And I am not settling for some chicken shit misdemeanor!
HANNA: Back to work.
RADIO: SMASHES into pieces.
MARCIANO: ( rising; big smile ) What can I do for you guys? Ignores his hand and shoves him back into his office chair with an open hand.
CLOSER: Hanna rips open Marciano's desk drawer finds a gun, unloads it, throws it on the floor, finds a small tape recorder, pops the tape out and tosses it to Schwartz. Then he flashes a badge at Marciano.
MARCIANO: L.A.P.D. Who the hell you think you're pushing around? You got no jurisdiction and I know people Who? The fucking Tooth Fairy! So what?
SCHWARTZ: Who? The fucking Tooth Fairy! So what?
HANNA: You go back to Newark on a New Jersey warrant for smuggling cigarettes up from North Carolina three years ago or you go to work for us. Cut and dried. Oh, my God.
MARCIANO: Oh, my God.
HANNA: Charlene Shiherlis.
MARCIANO: "Who?" The stranger you been talkin' dirty to on the telephone every day for the last month.
SCHWARTZ: "Who?" The stranger you been talkin' dirty to on the telephone every day for the last month.
MARCIANO: You can't tie me to her!
HANNA: Who has to. You're onna plane to New Jersey, jagoff.
MARCIANO: Oh, man. Why did I get mixed up with that Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org 75.
HANNA: ( sits down ) 'Cause she's got a great ass and you goT your head all the way up So it's no big thing. I don't even want her. You can have her, after. I want her husband and all his buddies; that's all. And you're gonna help.
MARCIANO: ( defeated ) So it's no big thing. I don't even want her. You can have her, after. I want her husband and all his buddies; that's all. And you're gonna help.
HANNA: So it's no big thing. I don't even want her. You can have her, after. I want her husband and all his buddies; that's all. And you're gonna help.
NEIL: LAPD? The G? What? Where the hell did this heat come from?
CHRIS: Maybe it's only the EMA score, not us.
NEIL: ( low ) Wake up! ( beat ) Assume they got our phones, our houses bugged, I beepers on all the cars. We got major problems.. Where's Cerrito?
CHRIS: Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org 76.
NEIL: D Block. San Q. Did a nickel on armed robbery.
BREEDAN: Hey, Homeboy! All right! How bout you?
NEIL: ( sits on counter ) Gettin' by. You okay?
BREEDAN: ( embarrassed; re: Yeah. Temporary. Know what I
NEIL: Sure. See you around.
NEIL: ( to Cerrito ) What took you so long?
CERRITO: ( low ) My car. Bugs. Two of 'em. Count 'em. One in the wheel well. Second behind the fire wall. Night of the party? I dropped Elaine and swung by EMA to check out the junction box.
CHRIS: Without the platinum how do we buy the bank score?
NEIL: I cash in T-bills to pay-off Kelso. That's not our problem.
CERRITO: What the hell happened to Van Zant and our 750?
NEIL: With the heat we got, you wanna play World War Two in the streets with Van Zant?
CERRITO: Van Zant gets a pass?!
NEIL: Fuck Van Zant. I got more motivation to whack him than you do. He is a luxury. Our problem is: jam and take the bank or And I mean right fucking now. Do not go home, pack, nothing. Thirty seconds from now we are on the road. Gone.
CHRIS: For me, the bank's worth the stretch. I say accept the risk, I roll with you. Whatever.
NEIL: ( quietly ) I roll with you. Whatever.
CERRITO: ( quietly ) I roll with you. Whatever.
NEIL: ( quietly ) Not on this one, Michael. On this one you make up your own ( he can't ) .you figure this the best thing to do?
CERRITO: ( he can't ) .you figure this the best thing to do?
NEIL: I got some plans. To go away after. So for me, it's worth the stretch.
NEIL: ( continuing ) But, Elaine takes good care of you. You got plenty put away. T. Bonds; real estate. If I were you, I'd be smart and cut loose of this.
CERRITO: thinks. The he shrugs, laughs:
CERRITO: Hey. To me the action's half the juice anyway. I'm in.
NEIL: All right. All right.
CERRITO: That the place?
NEIL: Yeah. You see how the road leads back around?
CERRITO: That's the escape route.
NEIL: That's the escape route.
CASALS: I know. Let's go!
WIDER: The two men run back from their observation position to an unmarked car parked a hundred yards behind.
CASALS: They were looking at something What's's that down there?
HANNA: What's's that down there?
CASALS: An auto parts company. They're going to knock over a payroll?
SCHWARTZ: The company only pays by check.
HANNA: Maybe they're gonna steal the hub caps .
HANNA: ( continuing ) A billboard. Oil pumps. What the hell's goin' on?
SCHWARTZ: That's what we were trying to
HANNA: I got an idea what they're looking at. You know what they're looking
HANNA: ( continuing; to Is that guy something; or is that guy something? I mean, you gotta give this crew credit. They are so fucking good. ( beat ) Know what he's looking at?
HANNA: Us. The L.A.P.D. The Police Department. We just got made.
NATE: Worth it?
NEIL: ( impressed ) There's enough circuit diagrams and blueprints here to build the ( beat ) It's terrific.
NATE: His name is Hanna; first name, Vincent. I smeared this sergeant in vice five yards. Hanna's all over you. He's a hot dog. Lieutenant in major Crimes Unit. He's taken down some heavy crews. Blew away Frankie Yonder in Chicago and he was a fucking maniac. Was working Narcotics before that. He's good, Neil. Dedicated. Divorced three times. Current wife's Justine. He's why the extra heat. Vice sergeant says Hanna likes you. Thinks you're some kind of 'star.' 'You do this sharp, you do that sharp. Look how sharp this guy is to figure that.'
NATE: ( continuing ) Funny as a heart attack. ( pause ) With this guy and this much heat, you should pass on the bank.
NEIL: I've had heat before.
NATE: That's not the point.
NEIL: This one's worth the stretch
NATE: You sure?
NEIL: I'm sure. Drop me at the garage.
HUGH BENNY: in an iridescent gold suit no tie - sticks his head in. He breaks the ankles of people who - for the most part - work for a living and have fallen behind on a juice loan. He looks the part.
HUGH: Hear from him yet?
VAN ZANT: Not a thing.
HUGH: Maybe he went away.
VAN ZANT: ( sarcastic ) Yeah. Sure. ( beat ) Not hearing bothers me more. ( an afterthought ) Where's this guy?
WAINGRO: Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org 83.
HUGH: ( re Waingro ) This guy here.we put him on. Turns out he knows McCauley.
WAINGRO: Waingro. My name's Waingro.
VAN ZANT: I been living in this office day and night. What's with your I know all about how he thinks. We took some major scores together. He's probably busy right now. But he's real thorough. He won't forget you.
WAINGRO: I know all about how he thinks. We took some major scores together. He's probably busy right now. But he's real thorough. He won't forget you.
VAN ZANT: ( wry ) That's reassuring.
WAINGRO: Yeah, I got some moves I could make here, that could be a big help to you.
HANNA: No answer.
HANNA: Where we going?
HANNA: ( continuing; acid ) Where are you going?
JUSTINE: Hanna leaves. Then Justine looks at where he stood. Her cold demeanor cracks, then reassembles and she lights a roach, takes a hit, dumps it in the toilet and finishes her makeup.
NEIL: slips his 9mm. Browning under his thigh and pulls over.
NEIL: watches Hanna approach, wary. He didn't expect this to
HANNA: You know I'm on you. Let's talk.
NEIL: ( beat; then ) Sure. Buy me a cup of coffee.
HANNA: Seven years in San Quentin. In the hole for three. McNeil before Was McNeil as tough as they say?
NEIL: Was McNeil as tough as they say?
HANNA: Was McNeil as tough as they say?
NEIL: You looking to become a You looking to go back? I chased some crews, the guys were lookin' to fuck up and get busted back.
HANNA: You looking to go back? I chased some crews, the guys were lookin' to fuck up and get busted back.
NEIL: You must have worked some dipshit I worked all kinds.
HANNA: I worked all kinds.
NEIL: ( pause ) You see me doing thrill-seeker liquor store holdups with a "Born to Lose" tattoo on my chest?
HANNA: No, I do not.
NEIL: Right. And I.
HANNA: Then don't take down scores.
NEIL: I do what I do best. I take scores. You do what you do best trying to stop guys like me.
HANNA: You never wanted a normal-type What the fuck is that? Barbecues and ballgames?
NEIL: What the fuck is that? Barbecues and ballgames?
HANNA: That's part of it.
NEIL: That's nice. That your life?
HANNA: No. My wife spends half her time on the couch. My stepdaughter's got problems 'cause her real father's a world class asshole. And every moment I got, I'm chasing guys like you.
NEIL: A man told me once: you want to make moves? Don't keep anything in your life you're not willing to walk out on in 30 seconds flat if you feel the heat around the corner. So if you're chasing me and you gotta move when I move, how do you expect to keep a family?
HANNA: What are you, a monk?
NEIL: ( pause ) I got a woman.
HANNA: What do you tell her?
NEIL: She thinks I sell swimming pools.
HANNA: And if you spot me around the corner. You gonna walk out on her? Leave her flat? Like that? Not even say goodbye?
NEIL: That's the discipline.
HANNA: What you're left with is pretty Then maybe you and me, we should both go do somethin' else, pal.
NEIL: ( beat ) Then maybe you and me, we should both go do somethin' else, pal.
HANNA: I don't know how to do anything .neither do I.
NEIL: ( the shared .neither do I.
HANNA: And I don't much want to.
NEIL: Neither do I.
HANNA: We're sitting here like a coupla regular fellas. You do what you do. I do what I gotta do. What happens if I am there and I got to put you away? I won't like it. But, if it's between you and some poor bastard whose wife you're going to make into a widow, brother, you are gonna go down. 'Cause you don't
NEIL: There's a flip side to that coin. What if you got me boxed in and I gotta put you down? 'Cause no matter what, you will not get in my way. But now that we been face to face, I would not feel good about that. But I won't hesitate. Not for one second.
HANNA: ( smiles ) Maybe it'll happen that way. Or who knows .
NEIL: .maybe we'll never see each other again.
HANNA: ( to waitress ) Can we have the bill.
DRUCKER: They dumped us!
HANNA: They dumped us.
DRUCKER: They dumped us.
HANNA: I was just with him!
DRUCKER: With who?
HANNA: Whattaya mean, "they dumped us"?!
DRUCKER: Chris slipped his tail. And Chris doesn't talk about jobs with Charlene so there's nothing for Marciano to get from her.
HANNA: ( to Casals ) Disappeared. No calls to the house. Not home.
CASALS: Disappeared. No calls to the house. Not home.
HANNA: Locators on their cars?!
CASALS: ( painful ) Cerrito dumped his on a UPS van. Surveillance tailed a UPS van to
HANNA: ( shouts ) They dumped all our tails?!!
CASALS: All at the same time. About nine p.m.
HANNA: ( shouts ) I had coffee with McCauley half an hour ago. What happened?
CASALS: Our tail saw you. McCauley pulled into a car wash. Car came out. He didn't. Does anybody have Any idea where the fuck these people are at? 'Cause whatever they are gonna do, they are doing it right now!
HANNA: Does anybody have Any idea where the fuck these people are at? 'Cause whatever they are gonna do, they are doing it right now!
NEIL: ( whispers ) Got it. it's eighteen inches
CHRIS: opens his satchel and takes out a voltmeter.
NEIL: Where the hell's Towner? I wanted to pass by early. I want to check the slot for the work car.
SOLENKO: crosses to CASHIER - an old lady with red lipstick.
SOLENKO: ( re: Neil, Chris How long those guys been sitting back there?
CASHIER: Hour or so.
SOLENKO: ( crossing to grill ) They think this a hotel?
BREEDAN: ( without turning ) You spell me? I didn't take my break yet .
SOLENKO: That spic, Cisco Kid, whatever, didn't show. After the lunch rush, haul out the garbage and mop the back. Take your break
CERRITO: Here he is.
TOWNER: crosses through and joins them. He's tense.
TOWNER: Hey! I'm out! I can't go.
NEIL: What are you talking about?
TOWNER: Anna's got a perforated appendix. We took her to the hospital.
NEIL: What the hell I do for a driver?!
TOWNER: Look, I got her sister there, waiting at the hospital. I came over 'cause I didn't want to talk on the phone. I got to get back. Last thing I'd do is let you down, Neil.
NEIL: What do you call this? Backing me up?
TOWNER: ( tense; angry ) I waited too long trying to get past today! So now maybe she got peritonitis. ( beat ) I got to be there.
CHRIS: What the fuck do we do now?
NEIL: Here comes your second chance for a change of luck.
BREEDAN: Need a driver. Remember the Yeah. When?
NEIL: Need a driver. Remember the Yeah. When?
BREEDAN: Yeah. When?
NEIL: ( looks at Solenko ) You're on.
BREEDAN: ( looks at Solenko ) You're on.
NEIL: Out back in five.
SOLENKO: races in.
BREEDAN: rolls his apron into a ball and throws it away.
SOLENKO: ( shouts ) Where the fuck you going?
WAINGRO: is revealed leaning against the door jam to the rear bedroom. He straightens his clothes. A baseball bat rests against the wall.
TOWNER: ( buddy-buddy ) I got to hand it to you, sport. You're slick, pal smart how you handled all this. On the ball. Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org 94.
WAINGRO: ( buddy-buddy ) I got to hand it to you, sport. You're slick, pal smart how you handled all this. On the ball. Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org 94.
TOWNER: ( wry ) Thanks. Where's Anna?
WAINGRO: She's resting. It's going down anyway? On schedule?
TOWNER: That's right.
WAINGRO: ( to Hugh ) Make the call.
TOWNER: Where's she?
WAINGRO: I dunno.
TOWNER: Know what happens when Neil finds out? To both of us?
WAINGRO: I know what's gonna happen. Nothing's gonna happen. 'Cause I got it master minded. I got it jammed. This is solid. Take it from the kid.
TOWNER: You hope. What do you mean, you don't know where she is?
HUGH: dialing the phone - stares at Towner with a blank look.
TOWNER: Fear blossoms. He races to the bathroom off the kitchen from which Waingro entered.
TOWNER: ( screams ) ( following; to his .showing her a good time.
WAINGRO: ( following; to his .showing her a good time.
BREEDAN: Looks right. Come out the door, your angle takes you into the car. Don't have to run around the doors. You want them open?
NEIL: No. 'Cause time is not a problem. And I want nothing to look weird.
BREEDAN: Po-lice response time?
NEIL: There is none.
BREEDAN: Cause we bypassed all the alarms last night. For you this whole gig is a slow cruise down Hawthorne.
CHRIS: Cause we bypassed all the alarms last night. For you this whole gig is a slow cruise down Hawthorne.
CLOSE SHOTS: Neil, Chris and Cerrito wear their stubby weapons concealed under nylon shell jackets on shoulder straps. They shove into place the curved clips, and release the top bolts, jacking the first rounds into chambers.
NEIL: checks his watch.
NEIL: ( with finality ) Drop us in the slot. Let's take it down.
CERRITO: checks and he re-checks his gun.
BREEDAN: drives. Cool. Unharrassed. His own ran, performing the simple and critical task of driving a station wagon and obeying perfectly every single rule of the California Vehicle Code.
DIETER: ( casual ) Hey, Casals. I got this tip phoned in about this bank. It mean anything to you?
CASALS: ( shouts ) Vincent! Vincent!
WIDE: Hanna comes up, coffee in his Commercial Bank! Wilmington!
CASALS: Commercial Bank! Wilmington!
WIDE: Hanna spills his coffee and runs out without his coat. Casals, Bosko and Schwartz follow.
ANGLE: She crosses and turns an the TV without volume. A newscaster appears. Charlene turns her back on the TV. On all fours, she advances on Dominick. He shrieks and laughs and crawls away.
NEIL: in line, waits: an old lady finishes and leaves.
JOHN: ( to Neil )
NEIL: Can I borrow your pen, John?
JOHN: ( smiles ) Sure thing!
NEIL: pulls his stocking mask down over his face. He reaches over the counter and grabs smiling John Fiske's lapels and yanks him over the counter top and throws him across the floor. Meanwhile:
CERRITO: Say, Frank.?
CHRIS: has smashed Guard One in the stomach with the H & X - doubling him up. Now he braces him against the wall, disarms and handcuffs him. He jerks on his stocking mask.
NEIL: ( very nicely ) Ladies and gentlemen! We are holding up this bank. ( continuing ) We want to hurt nobody. You do exactly like we say and you come away okay. We're here for the bank's money, not your money.
TIMMONS: with Neil approaching, frantically stomps the alarm button under his desk.
NEIL: .you people behind the windows: the salaries this bank pays aren't big enough to take risks for, so think of your take-home pay before you risk your life.
FACES: of Tellers and customers. Scared, but Neil's monologue holds their attention. Throughout he's approaching Timmons.
NEIL: ( to customers - .don't forget your money is insured by the Federal Government. You're not going to lose a penny. Relax and you'll get through this okay.
NEIL: reaches Timmons.
NEIL: ( smiles ) The key.
TIMMONS: What key?
NEIL: hauls him up, rips open his white shirt and pulls the key an a lariat off his neck.
NEIL: Don't touch your face. Let it
CERRITO: pulls a straight razor and leans over Guard Magid. He slits his pants leg and pocket open and extracts the other key and it.
CHRIS: spins the ring handle for five seconds. The massive round vault door opens. It reveals a second, rectangular door.
CERRITO: handcuffs Magid. handcuffs Timmons to his chair.
NEIL: tosses one on his shoulder like a sailor's duffle bag, his machine-gun in front.
NEIL: exits the bank through the front door TO CAMERA. The sidewalk is crowded with school kids now and housewives. No one pays attention as Neil tosses the first bag to INT. HANNA'S CAR - HANNA, SCHWARTZ + BOSKO - DAY racing in and out through the Hawthorne Boulevard traffic to get past cars. Drucker and casals follow in a second car. No sirens. Schwartz drives. The bank is seen 200 yards ahead..
SCHWARTZ: Too many people. This isn't how to handle it Vincent! Fuck this crew! Let 'em go!
HANNA: as car pulls in.
HANNA: ( to Bosko ) Left flanking fire. street.
NEIL: coming out with the second bag. Chris follows - backwards covering the interior. Neil avoids a lady pushing a supermarket shopping cart, looks up and SEES:
CHRIS: is hit in the neck.
NEIL'S: FIRING 3-SHOT BURSTS that blow up Schwartz and a lamppost and hit a woman who falls over her shopping cart, shrieking. Hanna's behind the lamppost.
BOSKO: across the street with his AR-180, opens up on the station wagon which takes HITS. A BLACK AND WHITE slides sideways and COP #1 with a shotgun runs across the street hollering at kids who stop and stare and drop school books.
CERRITO: over the station wagon roof FIRES a BURST at Bosko, then swings onto Cop #1 and fires, killing him. Cerrito jumps into the wagon.
NEIL: shielded by the green bag of money which has taken hits, FIRES at Hanna and backs to Chris.
HANNA: pulls Schwartz to cover.
CHRIS: dazed - holding his bleeding neck while Neil FIRES into the parking lot.
PARKING LOT: .hitting Casals getting out of his car. Casals sits down as if stunned.
MAN: pulling his car out of the lot ducks behind the wheel and crashes it into a parked car.
CERRITO: ( to Neil ) C'mon! C'mon! C'mon!
NEIL: ( to Breedan and Go!! Go!!
HANNA: re-emerges, kneels and PUMPS SHOTS into the station wagon.
BOSKO: rounds the bus with the AR-180 and OPENS UP
STATION WAGON: draws everyone's FIRE. Breedan ducks and pilots it through the gauntlet.
NEIL: has taken off down the sidewalk, supporting Chris. TIGHTEN. He runs in among crowds of civilians. He knocks over a man, breaks through. People are screaming, staring, INT. STATION WAGON - BREEDAN getting BLOWN APART by Hanna, Bosko, and Cop #2 falls over the wheel and then is thrown back.
WIDER: Bosko and Cop #3 chase Cerrito. Cerrito FIRES a long BURST. They can't fire back because of the people.
TRACKING HANNA: a half block behind, chasing Neil - pushing through the same people.
HANNA: ( shouts at Get down! Get down
NEIL: extends the collapsible stock braces on the roof for accuracy and FIRES over the roof of other cars and through people at Hanna closing in 5o yards away.
HANNA: doesn't have a clear shot and drops, dragging people down with him.
NEIL: behind the wheel - burns rubber pulling out of the lot over curbstones and through a fence into the alley.
HANNA: runs to the alley - pulling his radio:
HANNA: ( into radio ) This is Hanna! ( no response; shakes Come in.
CERRITO: up a girl out of the yard.
CERRITO: ( nice ) C'mere, honey.
CERRITO: turns, sees Hanna. He starts swinging around the H & K on its shoulder strap..
HANNA: FIRES ONCE.
BOSKO: takes the girl and folds her into his bear-like chest. He carries her off. He holds onto her and wraps his jacket around her. Tears stream down his face.
HANNA: standing there in the center of the mess: bodies, disabled vehicles, people, shouting, SIRENS arriving, etc.
NEIL: holds Chris down.
DOC: Blood loss and shock and he'll have a lot of pain in the shoulder and back, but I'll give you quarter-grain phials of morphine. Subcutaneous injections.
NEIL: ( nods ) What's the bottom line?
DR. BOB: Missed the carotid artery by millimeters. There is mostly tissue damage. And the collar a bone's smashed. Can he rest Six, seven hours. What do I owe
NEIL: Six, seven hours. What do I owe
DR. BOB: It's got to be twenty thou.
NEIL: What is this?
DR. BOB: You're number one with a bullet on the six o'clock news. It's at least double the risk. So I'm doubling my price.
NEIL: You're wrong. It's four times the risk. 'Cause something happens to him, I'm coming back for you. And I'm double the worst trouble you ever had.
NEIL: I'll be back for you.
CHRIS: ( a little dazed; Charlene? Get her out!
NEIL: First, I got to know if our escape route got ratted-out along with everything else.
CHRIS: ( rasps ) Who wasn't around Towner.
NEIL: Who wasn't around Towner.
ANGLE: The battered Mercury wagon is still in situ, being dusted by two TECHNICIANS for prints. We HEAR a car pull in o.S. ELAINE CERRITO knocks over a Uniformed Cop and runs down the sidewalk to the chalked outline of Cerrito's body on the cement and
ELAINE CERRITO: knocks over a Uniformed Cop and runs down the sidewalk to the chalked outline of Cerrito's body on the cement and
CLOSER: Another cop moves to stop her. She dodges him. Disheveled, screaming, hysterical - she throws herself on the bloodied ground Michael Cerrito died upon and clutches at the outline drawing of his body and blood stains as if it were him.
NEWS CAMERAMAN: with lights moves in and tapes her. A Police woman tries to help Elaine up. Elaine bats her away.
LILLIAN: crosses to the bar and leans over.
LILLIAN: Say, bartender. ?
BARTENDER: rings up a sale, changing a $20.
BARTENDER: In a minute, lady.
LILLIAN: sees none of it. Then: impatient:
LILLIAN: ( shouts to Bartender ) You seen that fella I pulled out of here the other night? Big fella with a beard?
BARTENDER: at end of bar. Finishes with the customer. On his way to Lillian he turns up the TV volume.
BARTENDER: ( to Lillian ) What can I get you, ma'am? ( she says nothing ) Lady, you okay.
CHARLENE: rises, picks up Dominick, crosses to the phone. She punches 11 digits. We HEAR the phone RING on the other end.
CHARLENE: ( into phone ) Harry? If you want me, Come right down and get me and Dominick ( phone filter; eager ) Sugar. I'll catch the 8 o'clock and rent a car. I'll be there at your place in two hours.
PLAINCLOTHESMAN: Let's get you on that plane.
WIDE: Neil FLASHES his penlight around the room. Nothing.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Neil uses his penlight. He puts a towel under Towner's head. Towner's face - against the white octagonal tile floor - is a mess. He opens his eyes. TILT UP to Neil.
NEIL: ( whispers ) Made me.Anna.?
TOWNER: ( whispers ) Made me.Anna.?
NEIL: ( grim ) She's dead. ( beat ) So's Cerrito and Breedan.the guy who stood in.for you. ( beat ) Who did this.?
TOWNER: ( whispers ) They had Anna.
NEIL: ( Softly ) Waingro? On his own?
TOWNER: Waingro? On his own?
NEIL: Waingro? On his own?
TOWNER: ( whispers ) Uh-uh. For someone. The other worked for.said.
NEIL: Van Zant?
NEIL: ( continuing ) You sure?
TOWNER: ( nods; whispers ) You say anything about our exit? Our out?
NEIL: You say anything about our exit? Our out?
TOWNER: ( whispers ) .don't remember. I.
NEIL: C ' mon!
TOWNER: ( implores; whispers ) Neil.Neil.I don't think so.
NEIL: ( low ) The house clean?
NEIL: ( continuing; rising ) I'll call the medics.
NEIL: ( quietly; into phone ) You on a cellular?
NEIL: ( into phone ) ( phone filter ) A brick house on Swallow Drive in Bel Air.
NEIL: ( quietly; into phone ) Next: Waingro. Okay?
NEIL: ( into phone ) I'll make time. ( beat ) I need a new "out" laid on.
NEIL: ( into phone ) How can I trust it?
NEIL: ( into phone ) Things are screwed up. You're not flying out after me. We go Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org 116.
NEIL: is four feet away. The big .45 Automatic is aimed into the center of Van Zant's chest.
NEIL: Waingro. Where is he?
VAN ZANT: ( shouts ) How the hell should I know?
NATE: NEIL ( O.S. )
NATE: You want a good getaway and you're hot with a big score in your pocket. You're a media event. What the fuck do you expect?
NEIL: What do I get for those dollars?
NATE: You end up in Ireland with good papers and plastic.
NEIL: Via what?
NATE: Lear jet to Vancouver. Then commercial to Reykjavik; then For those bucks? 100 per cent. I got the plastic on me. The passports will be on the plane. Who's the third?
NEIL: For those bucks? 100 per cent. I got the plastic on me. The passports will be on the plane. Who's the third?
NATE: For those bucks? 100 per cent. I got the plastic on me. The passports will be on the plane. Who's the third?
NEIL: A girl. With her own papers. What are these good for?
NATE: Forty-five to sixty days.
NEIL: How soon?
NATE: Twenty-four hours.
NEIL: Make it twelve.
NATE: You're going for an important ride. If they say twenty-four for it to be right, then it's You checked all around?
NEIL: You checked all around?
NATE: All around. You and I go way back, kiddo, I bought you the best.
NEIL: Where's the pick-up?
NATE: Santa Monica Airport. They're a legit operation. I won't have details until tomorrow morning.
NATE: ( Continuing ) What is it?
NEIL: Kelso's share. Ten per cent. $400,000. That's less the 50 advance. The other bag was with
HELD: They're moving fast down the corridor. Hanna is throwing everything into motion.
HANNA: ( to Farina ) You stick with the Charlene Shiherlis piece.
FARINA: Marciano's on a plane in here from, Las Vegas to pick her up. We got a house I set..
HANNA: Maybe Chris or Neil will come for her. Frankly, I doubt it. You work Neil's transport from here on the phones.
DRUCKER: McCauley's gotta be gone. He hadda have a getaway planned.
HANNA: And now he's gotta get a new one! Would you trust it after this afternoon? Someone, somewhere's agenting it for him. That's a main track. We got Shiherlis setting up. That's a main track. I want How much time we got?
FARINA: How much time we got?
HANNA: Eight, ten, twelve hours. For him to set up a new out. After that? He's gone. Bam! Bye-
HANNA: ( to Bosko; sarcastic ) He's the burglary cop with the "terrific tip?"
BOSKO: Who are you?
DIETER: Who are you?
HANNA: Hanna. Where'd it come from?
DIETER: ( defensive ) I got my informants. Just like you got.
HANNA: ( explodes ) I got Schwartz. Dead. Casals got no liver. He's dying. Don't come on to me with "confidential source" crap!
DIETER: ( shouts ) Hugh. Hugh Benny. He gives me
BOSKO: hauls Hugh up, kicking, punching and bouncing him off the walls. Hugh swings at Bosko.
HANNA: ( shouts ) Who ratted-out McCauley? C'mon! Who? You?
CHARLENE: ( screams ) Whose side are you on?
MARCIANO: I'm on yours.
CHARLENE: You slimy piece of shit. What a You told me you want out from under? You're scared to death of Neil. You wanted out? This is out!
MARCIANO: You told me you want out from under? You're scared to death of Neil. You wanted out? This is out!
CHARLENE: What's your end?
MARCIANO: You dump broad! How'd I get into this?
FARINA: Hey, hey! Go easy on the lady!
MARCIANO: ( surprised ) You heard me. She had a rough ( beat ) Go mix her a drink. Cabinet above the sink.
FARINA: You heard me. She had a rough Go mix her a drink. Cabinet above the sink.
MARCIANO: Fuck her.
FARINA: Get the fuck in there!
FARINA: ( continuing; soft ) He's right. And you know it. You think you'd be betraying Well, you're right. You would be. But if you don't betray Chris, you betray Dominick. Because he becomes an orphan when you go to prison as an accessory 'cause you got no living parents to take him. Then he ends up state-raised and fucked for life. Your son Dominick's innocent. He didn't choose a life like that. Chris did.
CHARLENE: ( right to his face ) Well, you're right. You would be. But if you don't betray Chris, you betray Dominick. Because he becomes an orphan when you go to prison as an accessory 'cause you got no living parents to take him. Then he ends up state-raised and fucked for life. Your son Dominick's innocent. He didn't choose a life like that. Chris did.
FARINA: Well, you're right. You would be. But if you don't betray Chris, you betray Dominick. Because he becomes an orphan when you go to prison as an accessory 'cause you got no living parents to take him. Then he ends up state-raised and fucked for life. Your son Dominick's innocent. He didn't choose a life like that. Chris did.
FARINA: ( continuing ) Give up Chris. You get off clean. Do it for your kid.
FARINA: ( continuing; into Vincent. It's me. We're set here. She'll make the call.
CHARLENE: ( into phone ) I'm going to give you an address of where I'm staying. Could you get it to Chris?
HANNA: ( into phone )
HANNA: ( into phone ) It's me. Tracks back to this union guy, Van Zant. He had some beef with Neil. Neil already settled it. Van Zant got dead earlier tonight. ( pause ) Now Hugh Benny has reformed his wayward life and become a born- again good citizen. So, he's revealed the key player is this cowboy Waingro. Used to be part of Neil's crew. Waingro committed a double murder today on Towner, a driver, and his old lady. ( pause ) Meanwhile Waingro's checked into the Airport Hyatt House under "Jamieson." Maybe Neil will make a move on him, but not likely. ( pause ) Get the word to bailbondsmen, bookies, snitches in County, etc. where Waingro is. And get a team down there to set it up.
HANNA: ( into phone ) No. You stay on who's agenting Neil's getaway. What have you ( phone filter ) Nothing yet.
HANNA: ( to Berryman ) He's here. He's still here. I can feel it.
BERRYMAN: For how long?
HANNA: Eight, ten hours max.
EADY: ( quietly ) What did you do? ( re TV ) Was that you?
NEIL: It's what I don't do. I don't sell swimming pools. It would have been okay. You would have flown out after. You didn't need to do a thing. Now I'm jammed. We got to go together. Because we get dropped in a place and then I decide: New Zealand or Brazil or Tunisia, whatever. I can't leave a string back here to where I am.
EADY: ( confused )
NEIL: I rob and steal for a living. Do you understand?
EADY: ( amazed ) You killed people?
NEIL: If they got in the way. Yes. It's their problem.
EADY: The woman on the grass.where her husband got shot..
NEIL: Elaine Cerrito. Michael Cerrito's wife. Michael was my friend. He knew the risks. He didn't have to be there. He coulda been a.been a mailman.
EADY: I don't believe it.
NEIL: Believe it.
NEIL: ( continuing ) Eady. Get packed. Get dressed. Let's go.
NEIL: ( after her ) Eady! !
ANOTHER ANGLE: She keeps going. Neil catches her and she falls into the CLOSE - TWO SHOT
EADY: ( explosively Why you do this to me! What I do to you?!
NEIL: Shut up!
NEIL: ( soft ) Use these credit cards. They say "Mr. and Mrs." I reserved the car. Buy me some clothes. Here's a list. I can't go home for my stuff. Can you do it?
EADY: When's it over?
NEIL: Twenty-two hours. Then we fly out of here.clean.
EADY: I want you to let me go. When will you let me go?
NEIL: You can go now. There's the door, you want out.
EADY: No, I have to do what you say. But will you let me leave after?
NEIL: It will be different.
A MAN: on his sofa watching his TV. His name is RALPH.
JUSTINE: enters, sees Hanna.
JUSTINE: ( cool ) Oh. Meet Vincent.
RALPH: Excuse me. You didn't tell me you were.
RALPH: ( continuing ) Oh, my God.
HANNA: What's your name?
RALPH: ( frozen ) I should..Ralph.I'm.
HANNA: I'm Vincent Hanna.
JUSTINE: Don't you even get angry?
HANNA: ( to Justine ) I'm angry. ( to Ralph ) Ralph, you can ball my wife. You can lounge around her $1.7 million condominium on her sofa. You can do all those things. But you do not get to watch my fucking TV.!
HANNA: ( continuing; to I've never screwed around. I've been true blue to you since the day we met.
JUSTINE: It would have been preferable if you had! You made me do this!
HANNA: Right I had Ralph fuck you 'cause it makes me feel so good.
JUSTINE: Put down the television. You look ridiculous. Dr. Prince says I'm trying to get your attention. Christ! I have to pay someone to figure out my life with you.
RALPH: Maybe I should.
HANNA: Shut up!
JUSTINE: Why's it my job to figure it all out and explain it to you?
HANNA: 'Cause you're the one who spends all the time on the couch.
JUSTINE: And what do you do?
HANNA: What do I do? I speak the English language. Words. Sentences How admirable: proletarian candor.
JUSTINE: How admirable: proletarian candor.
HANNA: Thank you.
JUSTINE: Except you don't say a damned thing. You neglect me. You don't call. I can worry about you or not. So I withdraw. You don't notice. You're walking through our life chloroformed, Vincent. Wake up. It's almost
NATE: I got Cerrito's share deposited in the Delaware Trust for Elaine. She's pretty bad. Passports. Traveler's checks. Hangar 17. Plane call letters are 1011 Sierra. Touches down, holds for five minutes and splits. The plane will stand an FAA check. Filed flight plan. The works.
CHRIS: I'm not flying. I'm drivin'.
NATE: ( looks at Neil; to Fly. Send for her later. ( to Neil ) Can't you talk to him?
NEIL: I been trying.
NATE: ( to Neil ) Talk to you in three hours in case there's changes.
NEIL: Use the Camaro. Its clean and will stand a DMV check.
CHRIS: How you getting around?
NEIL: Someone's picking me up.
CHRIS: A girl on the side?
NEIL: ( laughs ) See you, cowboy.
CHRIS: So long, brother.
EADY: ( driving ) Clothes are in the trunk.
NEIL: Any trouble?
EADY: No. When's it over?
NEIL: Six hours. 8 p.m.
NEIL: ( continuing ) I'll buy you lunch. Everything's smooth. We're going to fly
FARINA'S: been up all night and looks it. Bags of take-out food and coffee containers litter the table. Dominick crawls over and up Farina's leg. Charlene comes over. Farina picks Dominick up and makes a face and growls. Dominick laughs. Charlene smiles and takes him. Phone RINGS. Farina takes it, listens. Then:
FARINA: ( into phone ) Not a thing. What about you?
HANNA: ( into phone ) Someone's agenting Neil's stuff?
HANNA: ( continuing; suddenly .how did Charlene get the Marina address passed to Chris?
HANNA: ( continuing; to I don't believe I didn't think of this. ( into phone )
NEIL: ( into phone ) Hi ya.
NEIL: ( into phone ) Yeah, Breedan's end?
NATE: ( phone filter ) Still can't find nobody. It's in the Delaware Trust. You tell me later what to do. And about your ride. No changes. Right on schedule.
NEIL: ( into phone )
NEIL: ( into phone ) You figured right. ( smiles ) Take it easy, old man.
NATE: ( phone filter; laughs ) You take it easy. Be careful, ( to Eady ) That was the last bridge.
NEIL: ( to Eady ) That was the last bridge.
NEIL: gets in and hugs her desperately. It's the most emotional we've ever seen him. Eady responds not at all. Neil lets her loose.
HANNA: He blows out of here, you'll do his time. I want.
NATE: ( shouts back ) Screw what you want. Who the fuck are you?
HANNA: ( shouts ) Your worst nightmare. Hard time, ( shouts back ) I ain't looking at shit, and you know it! So don't con me.
NATE: ( shouts back ) I ain't looking at shit, and you know it! So don't con me.
BOSKO: ( grabs Nate; to I'll work him.
NATE: ( shouts at Bosko ) Go ahead!
HANNA: ( to Bosko ) Don't touch him! ( to Nate ) Accessory. Armed robbery and murder one. Dealing stolen merchandise and securities. You agent for Neil. At least the armored car and bank. Everything I tie him into, I tie you into. Two cops dead. Other bodies on the sidewalk. You understand that kind of heat? You fucking get it!
NATE: Neil who.?
HANNA: ( shouts to Drucker ) Book him on Accessory to Armed Robbery, Murder One, A.D.W., and Trafficking Stolen Merchandise. ( shouts at Nate ) The Nazi's in Quentin will turn your ass into a satchel. You're an old man. Gimme Neil!
NATE: ( shouts back ) What I'll give you is so many false arrest lawsuits, you won't have time to write traffic
HANNA: Get me Farina.
DRUCKER: Can we put Nate away?
HANNA: With a staff of five or six marshaling physical evidence for six months after two years' worth of continuances.maybe he'll do 18 months. Won't fucking happen. Check the bait.
BOSKO: Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org 136.
HANNA: Yeah. At the hotel.
NEIL: Look over there.
EADY: watches screaming gulls swirling below against the water.
NEIL: ( talks to the back I don't even know how to think like this.cause this has happened to me late in my life. But I got some expectations. For us. You can walk right now if you want. Walk away. Or you.on your own.you choose to come with me. I got enough in there to take care of us for
NEIL: ( continuing )
NEIL: ( continuing )
HANNA: ( into phone ) I'll hold.
FARINA: ( to Charlene ) C'mon, sugar: show yourself
MARCIANO: ( to Charlene ) Do it!
FARINA: ( to Marciano ) Shut up!! ( continuing ) One second at the window. Then it's all over.
FARINA: ( continuing ) One second at the window. Then it's all over.
CHARLENE: looks at Farina. She slowly crosses to the window. Marciano has faded to the back of the
CHRIS: looking up into Charlene's open face from inside the Lincoln. He starts to get out. Then he sees.
CHARLENE: And we TILT DOWN her body to her hand at her side. Her hand subtly waves him away, gestures towards the roof.
CHARLENE: ( irritated ) For Christ's sake.that's not even him. That's not Chris.
CHRIS: ( loud; tight ) Any of you guys know anything for rent around here?
FARINA: ( radio filter ) Unit two. This is command. Take him at the street. Check him out.
MARCIANO: ( worried ) Where the hell is he?
CHARLENE: ( taunts him ) Maybe he's not coming.
MARCIANO: ( explodes ) You better hope he shows! Or you're going to the can, you two
FARINA: ( shouts at cop ) Get him the hell out of here!
FARINA: ( into radio ) ( radio filter ) This guy's John Pearson. Valid I.D. car's registered to one Bukowski. Ran a make to DMV. It's clean. So's the car.
FARINA: ( into radio ) Let him go.
FARINA: ( continuing; to Want a cup of coffee while we wait, Mrs. Shiherlis?
CHARLENE: ( sad smile ) That would be nice. ( phone filter ) False alarm, Lieutenant.
HANNA: You know what? Neil's gone. Bam! Flyin' like' a bird.
BOSKO: ( jumps up ) C'mon! How do you know? We still got.
HANNA: What do we got? Bon voyage, motherfucker, you were good. I'm going to the hotel. I'm gonna take a shower. I'm gonna sleep for a month.
DOOR: opens. Hanna - disgusted - tips off his clothes and throws them at the furniture. He turns on the shower and goes in. He didn't see Lauren.
ANGLE: She does two things: she runs her hands across his stomach and says:
LAUREN: Hanna, terror-stricken, swings around and Lauren, screaming, starts assaulting him.
WIDE: They slip in the tub and crash onto the bottom. Hanna can barely restrain Lauren who has the strength of someone in a psychotic episode.
HANNA: ( to Lauren ) You're gonna be okay, baby. Your mommy and me are here. Everybody's here. We're going to take care of you. We love
JUSTINE: one arm locked around Hanna - trying to see her daughter. Then Lauren goes wild again and Hanna tightens.
ORDERLY: Let me take her.
HANNA: I got her.
DOCTOR: Watch her tongue!
HANNA: She's not epileptic! This isn't a seizure.
DOCTOR: ( to nurse ) 5 mg of Thorazine.
HANNA: You okay, baby?
EADY: What is it?
NEIL: ( lies )
NEIL: I got this errand to run that I The airport is right there. Is there time?
EADY: The airport is right there. Is there time?
NEIL: ( continuing ) Sure. It's a thing I got to take care of. is all.
NEIL: ( getting out ) Leave it running.
NEIL: crossing the street in his dark suit towards the hotel's side entrance.
NEIL: .be right back, Eady.
EADY: ( worried )
PAINTER ONE: pans his scope up the hotel.
PAINTER TWO: What's going on?
PAINTER ONE: Nothing. He's watching TV.
PAINTERS: are police - Waingro's surveillance team.
PAINTER TWO: We going to finish this game or
NEIL: ( into phone; familiar ) Hi. It's the kitchen again. A. "Jamieson" ordered a BLT and they got his room number screwed up.
NEIL: ( into phone ) Thanks, love.
NEIL: continues to the elevators. It says he KNOWS Waingro is a trap. He knows the LAPD are here. He's come for him INT. SERVICE ELEVATOR - NEIL'S HAND - NIGHT punches 14. PAN AROUND to Neil. The elevator rises. He pulls his .45 and checks that there's a round in the chamber. He slips it back into his waistband, cocked and INT. HOTEL, 14TH FLOOR ELEVATOR LOBBY - DOORS - NIGHT slide open. Neil emerges. He does two things. He wedges the ash tray to hold open the elevator door. Then, he smashes the glass and sets off the fire alarm. Immediately a SIREN SOUNDS. The building's elevators - except Neil's descend. We HEAR:
PAINTER ONE: ( still looking ) Yeah. Whyn't you call out for pizza? Sausage, peppers, ( suddenly ) ( ready ) That chick on the ninth floor got naked and she's pressing herself against the glass again.
PAINTER TWO: ( ready ) That chick on the ninth floor got naked and she's pressing herself against the glass again.
PAINTER ONE: That chick on the ninth floor got naked and she's pressing herself against the glass again.
PAINTER TWO: ( crosses to window ) Let me see.
HANNA: ( into phone ) Fuck McCauley. You handle it. Call Bosko and Drucker in. Get me at the hospital after.
JUSTINE: watching Hanna, heard the conversation.
HANNA: rejoins her and takes her hand. He looks at her and then at the floor. He puts an around her.
JUSTINE: ( really questioning ) .Will things change between ( beat ) I don't know. ( beat ) Probably not. ( beat ) .but I am reminded of how much I love you. But that may not be You have to go to work, don't ( touches her face )
HANNA: ( beat ) I don't know. ( beat ) Probably not. ( beat ) .but I am reminded of how much I love you. But that may not be You have to go to work, don't ( touches her face )
JUSTINE: ( kisses him ) You have to go to work, don't ( touches her face )
HANNA: ( touches her face )
JUSTINE: Be careful, Vincent. Be very Let's keep on trying?
HANNA: walking backwards, facing her, nods "yes." The last thing in the world he wants to do is leave. Then he turns and starts running down the white marble corridor.
NEIL: I'm hotel security. We're evacuating the floor.
NEIL: Sir, I'm afraid you'll have to.
NEIL: looks inside. Waingro's obviously hidden behind the door
WIDE: Neil kicks the door and.
NEIL: reaches around, grabs Waingro by the arm, dislocates his shoulder, breaks his collarbone and throws him across the room. Waingro's gun goes flying.
WAINGRO: on the sofa, seeing Neil McCauley. He feels his internal organs drop through the floor. He looks away.
NEIL: I should have dumped you in that parking lot. Look at me, you sick fuck.
NEIL: ( continuing ) Gimme your eyes. 'Cause you're gonna die.
HANNA: ( into radio ) Casals come in.
HANNA: ( into radio ) What's the situation?
HANNA: ( into radio ) It means he knew we were here and came anyway.
HANNA: ( into radio; Yeah, yeah, that's fine. Stay on it. 10-4.
HANNA: trying to see through, past, around everything. We don't know what it is he's looking
NEIL MCCAULEY: stops. He turns to Eady.
EADY: looks at him, quizzically.
HANNA: running towards Neil and Eady.
EADY: climbing out of the Mercedes, now, confused.
NEIL: starting to leave, moving at an oblique angle. Looking at her . leaving her .
EADY: next to the Mercedes. Shouting at Neil. We can't hear what she says. SIRENS and NOISE of an ambulance.
HANNA: AMBULANCE pulls in front of him, blocks him. He's around it, pushing a news crew out of the way, stops.
HANNA: spins around, searching.
LOT: A figure is running between cars. Beyond are the lights of an L1011 ten feet off the ground about to touch down.
NEIL: running towards us.
HANNA: runs across the grass between the fence to the strobe CLOSER: HANNA among the structures housing the ballasts for the lights. The ROAR of a 757's 95,000 lbs. of thrust beats an him. He spins to protect his face. His clothes and hair are whipped. As he runs to us .
NEIL: The hammer drops. Nothing. His .45 misfires.
HANNA: FIRES THREE perfectly controlled, hammered-on SHOTS. His front sight barely moved.
NEIL: HIT THREE TIMES in the chest - is blown back into the racks of lights. He lies still.
HANNA: approaches, slowly. His gun hand drops to his side.
NEIL: last breath.
NEIL: .not half bad.
HANNA: .pretty good your own self.
THE END: Writers : Michael Mann
