KIRSTY: Okay. Cubic root of nine thousand two hundred and sixty one.
TREVOR: Twenty one. Why do we have to do this now Shut up and play darling. Your turn.
KIRSTY: Shut up and play darling. Your turn.
TREVOR: Five hundred ninety two thousand seven hundred and four.
KIRSTY: Uh. eighty two?
TREVOR: Eighty four.
KIRSTY: You win! Okay pull over.
TREVOR: ( looking at his watch ) But. I thought.
KIRSTY: ( laughing ) If what I've heard is true this could be the last time for a long long time. Besides we've got a whole seven minutes before the next one. Clock's ticking.
KIRSTY: ( through clenched teeth )
KIRSTY'S VOICE: ( from BELOW FRAME ) Honey what's wrong?
TREVOR: What isn't wrong? Why are you doing this I'm. I'm doing a very special thing here. And you can't even . respond?
KIRSTY: ( self-conscious ) I'm. I'm doing a very special thing here. And you can't even . respond?
TREVOR: Sorry honey the present situation isn't exactly fodder for an erection. Shouldn't we be getting to the hospital?
KIRSTY: I was going to keep breathing you know. You think I'm an amateur or something?
TREVOR: Just concentrate on the task at hand please. Listen to me. You should be giving ME this lecture.
KIRSTY: You've been cheating on me haven't you?
TREVOR: Yes I had a quickie with the neighbor during your last contraction.
KIRSTY: Roughly two thirds of married men who cheat start during the eighth month of their wives' first pregnancy.
TREVOR: I would never cheat on you. Not while you're pregnant now you know that.
KIRSTY: ( features tightening ) Okay. uh oh here comes another one.
TREVOR: Share the pain Kirsty.
KIRSTY: ( in dire pain ) Oh God.. Trevor, I think my water just broke.
TREVOR: THE BABY IS COMING OUT! I CAN FEEL IT! SONOFABITCH IT HURTS!! AAAGGGGHHH!!!
KIRSTY: THE BABY IS COMING OUT! I CAN FEEL IT! SONOFABITCH IT HURTS!! AAAGGGGHHH!!!
TREVOR: Okay Kirsty don't panic. Just keep breathing! DON'T PANIC! Put the seat back and hold on to something. Were almost
KIRSTY: OH MY GOD TREVOR! It hurts!! ( breathing heavily ) oh my God, Oh my God. Trevor, It's coming out.
TREVOR: This isn't happening.
TREVOR: Honey, take it easy. Your gonna be
TREVOR: Trevor drops to his knee's in distress. He hears something from above and looks up. A chunk of the bashed-up guardrail from the bridge has just snapped off and is sailing right down toward him-
TREVOR: Where is she.? Where's Kirsty?
TREVOR: Hey, what are you-
TREVOR: What are you people doing?!
CHIEF SURGEON: As you can see I just accessed the speech center, temporarily shutting down all verbal ability.
ANGELIC WOMAN: Well? What do say Trevor? Que pasa?
TREVOR: Where do I start?
ANGELIC WOMAN: How's the old noggin? Any change in the Can you describe the pains? I'm not sure. How about a jackhammer in the Occipital lobe?
TREVOR: I'm not sure. How about a jackhammer in the Occipital lobe?
TREVOR: Are you a dream too?
ALLISON: Still hallucinating as well. Hmm.
TREVOR: What just happened to me anyway? It looked like a dream but it felt like It's the morphine Trevor. You're on so much of it, you could be asleep and dreaming even with your eyes wide open.
ALLISON: It's the morphine Trevor. You're on so much of it, you could be asleep and dreaming even with your eyes wide open.
TREVOR: Where's Kirsty? Where's my wife?
ALLISON: ( confused ) Your wife.?
ALLISON: ( to Ambrose ) Still a little hazy. He's still in pain too, even after the morphine. I recommend we admit him. At least for another day. ( leaning in, sotto ) He just asked for his wife.
AMBROSE: Well I can't find any abnormalities. I think we're ready for discharge.
ALLISON: But, Dr. Ambrose-
AMBROSE: ( looking up at Trevor ) I think it's time to ween you off these painkillers too. Wouldn't want you to develop a dependency to them. You might do things like come to the hospital for no reason other than to get a fix, wouldn't you?
ALLISON: Well looks like you're going home! Hope you brought your bus pass.
TREVOR: Do you kids mind keeping it down?
OLD WOMAN: Aww let them be. They're only kids.
BRET: Trevor what is the metric probability of you getting any work done at all today?
TREVOR: Hey Bret. Christ, my head feels like a split coconut.
BRET: Dude there is a track on the carpet between here and the bathroom. It was made by your ass. You've been dragging it all fucking week. What happened to you yesterday? You never came back after lunch. Did you get a piece o'ass, you bastard?
TREVOR: Give me a break. I checked back into the hospital- amongst other things.
BRET: Hospital? You haven't been to the hospital since uh.
TREVOR: Since what?
BRET: ( getting uncomfortable ) Look never mind. Just get some numbers going- any numbers at all will due. The hills have eyes remember?
BRET: Sixty five point three percent of all headaches are due to low sugar levels in the bloodstream Trevor.
PINHEAD: It's too late.
WOMAN: SNAP OUT OF IT!
GWEN: Jesus what the hell was that? It's like you saw a ghost or something. Come on speak up, Gooding, I'm trying to run a business here. I can't have people flipping out in the break room when they should be slaving away at their desks.
TREVOR: Sorry I just kind of. spaced for a second there.
GWEN: Well don't let it happen again. Or I may have to spank you.
TREVOR: Please, Gwen. You're- you're all over me.
GWEN: How do you think you got this job, cock? Mmm. I'm still tingling all over from our little midnight swim.
TREVOR: Nothing, look. Gwen I really like you-
GWEN: And it shows. Least it did last night at the quarry. In a big way.
TREVOR: Please you're going way too fast for me YOU'RE giving ME a speeding ticket? Mr. Mario Andretti himself?
GWEN: YOU'RE giving ME a speeding ticket? Mr. Mario Andretti himself?
TREVOR: Gwen, my wife's dead.
GWEN: Oh I see. That again. Trevor? I realize it must be hard. But Christ how long does it take someone to move on?
TREVOR: That was cold.
GWEN: No, making another woman compete with someone who's been dead eight months. That's cold.
FLASHBACK: QUICK FLASHES of Kirsty's hand pounding on the windshield, the car sinking into the lake, a quick cut of a dark figure with a bright ring, and shots of two naked bodies slamming against each other in climax course through Trevor's mind. Finally, over the images of erotica we hear Gwens voice as one of the characters. And back in the real world, Trevor is now locking lips with a very ready Gwen. His hand is up her skirt. He stops abruptly and pulls back.
TREVOR: I'm sorry Gwen. I don't know what's happening to me. ( zipping up ) I think it's the painkillers, really.
GWEN: Why don't you let me take you out tonight? I promise to make it the most memorable night of your life.
TREVOR: ( into phone ) You got Trevor.
MAN'S VOICE: ( from phone ) Trevor hi this is Detective Lange from homicide. It's about your wife.
LANGE: ( to Trevor ) Thanks for coming down Mr. Gooding. Has your head healed okay by now?
TREVOR: Where's my wife?
LANGE: Okay then. Here's the scoop.
TREVOR: What evidence?
LANGE: For one thing there were no skid marks on that bridge, the tires were all intact, from what we could tell, nothing wrong internally with the vehicle either. Like the car had been driven off the bridge It should all in the report. I told you guys everything. She was giving birth in the fucking car. She grabbed the wheel and I lost control.
TREVOR: It should all in the report. I told you guys everything. She was giving birth in the fucking car. She grabbed the wheel and I lost control.
LANGE: I did read that, yes. ( flipping through the report ) What hospital were you going to? I mean the Lodovico Street Bridge isn't exactly on the way to Mercy Listen we really are at a stalemate here until we find the body itself. Is there any way you did not tell missing persons everything that happened just before that Why wouldn't I tell you everything? ( impatiently ) Look, I've been fully . to my recollection.
TREVOR: Why wouldn't I tell you everything? ( impatiently ) Look, I've been fully . to my recollection.
LANGE: I'm sorry Mr. Gooding, I meant no disrespect. I'm just doing my job here, OK? I mean between your head injury and the fact that you are on very strong pain medication, you might not be remembering a few details about the crash which might help us here. What you're recalling could be a fabrication you've made up about it. Do you follow?
TREVOR: Kirsty. Jesus, wake up!
LANGE: Mr. Gooding? You still in there?
TREVOR: Uhh. Yes detective, sorry. Just trying to recollect, you know?
LANGE'S VOICE: That's a start. I'll tell the people trawling the river maybe it makes a difference maybe not. Thanks for your help Trevor. If we have any more questions you'll get a call from myself or my partner Detective Givens.
TREVOR: You guys know something I don't?
LANGE: All things considered we probably know a lot less than you do. Have a good afternoon, Mr. Gooding.
GOTHIC WOMAN: Here it is, what do you think? I saw it on the counter, looked at the name and the rest is history. It's like, named after me. Well.?
TREVOR: ( getting uncomfortable ) Oh. Uh. it's beautiful. I'm sorry, I've just been having a weird day.
TAWNY: I totally understand. Listen I don't know if you're into incense but, I bought some, it's called Witching Hour. To inhale it is to love it. I mean the stuff'll clear your head big time. Come on over, I'll burn some for you. If you can't sleep tonight.
TREVOR: No, thanks I've got a. a date tonight-
TAWNY: ( eyebrows raised ) Whew. You bounce right back don't you?
TREVOR: What do you mean?
TAWNY: Didn't your like. whole life get totalled last week?
TREVOR: Last week.
TAWNY: The car accident? Any of this ringing a
TREVOR: It's not that kind of date.
TAWNY: Hey even if it is more power to ya. Alrighty then. Have a good time.
KIRSTY: Well Trevor. It's been one year. Three hundred sixty five days.
KIRSTY: How does feel to be Mr. Kirsty Hughes for a whole year.
KIRSTY: The best business decision if you ever made I'll bet.
KIRSTY: You know what the family lawyer told me one our wedding day?
KIRSTY: Never to put you in my will.
KIRSTY: Because you'd be staying with me for me and not because you'd get rich if I died for some reason.
TREVOR: But you had more wisdom than to listen to a false prophet
KIRSTY: There is no wisdom, no insight, no plan ( prvb 21:30 )
KIRSTY: I only married you for your body.
KIRSTY: For me? Trevor! How romantic! Come here,
BING BONG!: Trevor gets up and pops the tape out.
BING BONG!: He slowly walks toward the door. He opens it to find a pitch dark hallway.
TREVOR: Hello? Who's out there?
GWEN: Sorry I'm late dear.
TREVOR: Gwen you scared the living shit out of
GWEN: You are turning into an old fuddy duddy.
TREVOR: Our little toy. You usually have it up and running by now.
GWEN: Our little toy. You usually have it up and running by now.
TREVOR: Do I really want to know what you're talking about?
GWEN: You're kidding me.
TREVOR: I'm sorry Gwen. I just can't.
GWEN: You have definitely got a screw loose, Trevor. Goodbye.
TREVOR: What the hell?
TREVOR WATCHES: Trevor and Gwen make love in video. Video Trevor turns to the the camera ( to Trevor ) and gives a menacing smile. Video Trevor looks back up at Gwen, who smiles down at him carnivorously. She licks her lips.
VIDEO GWEN: There's one thing I should have told you right from the beginning Trevor.
TREVOR: Allison stands above him Bic razor in her gloved hand. The bottom half of Trevor's face is covered with shaving cream.
ALLISON: Sorry I thought you were going to stay under longer.
TREVOR: What's happening to me? What are you You came in for your EEG. You fell asleep and well, I took the liberty of.I'm sorry. You looked like a wreck Trevor.
ALLISON: You came in for your EEG. You fell asleep and well, I took the liberty of.I'm sorry. You looked like a wreck Trevor.
TREVOR: I just had the most vivid dream. I was sure I was dying.
ALLISON: Well you can relax now you are quite alive. And as long as you're awake, chin
TREVOR: ( groggily ) Let me see. Oh yeah. My head feels like it's going through a meat grinder. I'm not sure if I'm dreaming or.
ALLISON: ( interupting ) That `poor me' attitude doesn't suit you Trevor. Listen, I don't mean to sound like Pollyanna but things could be worse. There's one good thing about coming so near to the end of ones life. Everything is new and exciting, like your seeing it for the first time. You might see things a litlle differently from now Your insight is enlightening.
TREVOR: Your insight is enlightening.
ALLISON: No wisdom, no insight, no plan.
TREVOR: My wife said that exact same sentence to me the day we got married. She even winked too.
ALLISON: Do you use this wife thing to hit on all the interns?
TREVOR: ( smiling ) No. just you.
ALLISON: There. Just like a baby's butt.
TREVOR: Allison? Why can't remember what happened to my wife? Is it something I'm on that's. that's making me forget?
ALLISON: Easy there Trevor. You need to relax.
TREVOR: No I need to remember. Look whatever it is take me off it. I can handle pain. I can't handle not knowing.
ALLISON: You need to get better first Trevor. Way It's okay to miss somebody. It's okay to still love someone after they're gone. But you've got to quit blaming yourself okay.? Okay?
ALLISON: He is unconscious. A LOUD STEADY BUZZ sounds from one of the machines behind her as blood begins to leak out of Trevor's ear. Allison jumps up and hits call button above Trevor's She yanks Trevor's johnnie down, wheels a defribulator over to his dying body and grabs the paddles.
CODE BLUE!: She yanks Trevor's johnnie down, wheels a defribulator over to his dying body and grabs the paddles.
TREVOR: Shit, I'm gonna be late!
BRET: Must be nice.
TREVOR: Getting paid for doing shit.
BRET: Getting paid for doing shit.
TREVOR: Come on, Bret.
BRET: Seriously man, you oughta work for the government. You've got the sense of urgency for it.
TREVOR: Look, I'm doing my best considering okay?
BRET: Hey if the boss doesn't notice who cares right? Just slack all the live long day if you want.
TREVOR: The boss won't notice me doing a bad job because I'm not. Even if the boss thought I was slacking I'd know right away.
BRET: Yeah, how's that?
TREVOR: ( smug ) I have my connections
BRET: Really? Do tell.
TREVOR: ( smiling )
BRET: I crap you not. She was all over me yesterday in the break room. And she was a total machine last night too.
GWEN?: I crap you not. She was all over me yesterday in the break room. And she was a total machine last night too.
TREVOR: I crap you not. She was all over me yesterday in the break room. And she was a total machine last night too.
BRET: You were supposed to have a date with Gwen last night? GWEN DEARDON? The Serious as a heart attack my friend. I think she literally fucked me brains out.
TREVOR: Serious as a heart attack my friend. I think she literally fucked me brains out.
BRET: ( super sarcastic ) Wow that's quite a feat Trevor congratulations. Must be really tough to get your brains fucked out by a CORPSE.
TREVOR: What are you talking about?
BRET: Me? This is your sick joke man. Gwen was murdered here six months ago. The security guard found her all over her office. Her head was in the waste paper basket. Her stomach was in the filing cabinet. Her ass was on the copy
TREVOR: ( to himself ) Jesus Christ.
BRET: Man are you ever out of the loop. Either that or you've got the worst sense of humor this side of Jeffrey Dahmer. What is your problem anyway?
TREVOR: Honestly Bret? I think I lost my mind. And now I'm finding pieces of it, like pieces of a wrecked car, scattered on the side of the road.
BRET: Bud you need to decompress. I told you you came back to work too soon after the
SAGE: These headaches you've been getting. Do they happen in conjunction with the Yes, sort of.
TREVOR: ( unsure of himself ) Yes, sort of.
SAGE: I was going to say dimensions. But I guess technically they are dreams.
TREVOR: I was going to say dimensions. But I guess technically they are dreams.
SAGE: You should always listen to your subconscious. It's trying to tell you something about your waking life. But I never feel like I'm sleeping. It's sort of, waking narcolepsy. I'll be somewhere and then- -it's like I was never wherever I was to begin with I was really somewhere else Ok, whatever that was.do it again. That just set me free of the worlds longest head ache. Is this making any None whatsoever. Now just relax. Let the needles do the driving.
TREVOR: I'm thinking this might just be what I
PINHEAD: No matter what happens just remember.
ALLISON: Shh. It's okay. Go back to sleep.
DARKENED MAN: I know. Divorce isn't good enough. Abandonment isn't good enough. There's only one way to do it and do it cleanly, without leaving a trace of evidence.
RECEPTIONIST: Afternoon doll-face. Hey, a police detective was just here to see you. Some guy named Givens.
TREVOR: Uh thanks this looks a little important. Could you let the folks upstairs know I'll be late?
RECEPTIONIST: For you bubbalicious? I'd lay across a bed of nails.
TREVOR: I'm sorry. I still. I don't understand how this is a homicide case. I mean nobody was murdered here. Her body's been missing for I don't know how long now and.
GIVENS: What did you just say?
TREVOR: I said she's been missing for-
GIVENS: No. No you said HER BODY's been missing.
TREVOR: What's the difference?
GIVENS: Last time anybody saw this woman she was alive. You seem to certain she's dead.
TREVOR: ( tearing up ) I saw her drowning inside the car, I read up on you, man. You're a smart guy aren't you? I mean with numbers. Right?
GIVENS: I read up on you, man. You're a smart guy aren't you? I mean with numbers. Right?
TREVOR: You could say that.
GIVENS: Zero's a number right?
TREVOR: As in one minus one equals zero yes. Where are you going with this?
GIVENS: How many zeros was your wife worth?
TREVOR: I need to talk to my attorney. Now.
BRET: I don't know what pissed you off but it's nice to see you getting the job done for a change.
WOMAN'S VOICE: I'M SAVED! MY HERO!
ANNNOUNCER'S VOICE: ( from TV ) -at the dawning of the agrarian age goat's milk would be considered a suitable substitute for a mother's breast milk. And the sacrifice of a goat would appease an angry god and ensure a bountiful harvest. But in time the ritual would become associated with less hallowed purposes.
TAWNY: Hey. Can I borrow something?
TREVOR: Uh. sure, Tawny. what?
TAWNY: ( CONTINUED )
TREVOR: Tawny? What's- what are you doing?
TAWNY: Trevor eyes her gorgeous body and decides not to resist quite so much.
YOU!: Trevor eyes her gorgeous body and decides not to resist quite so much.
TAWNY: You okay?
TREVOR: I'm, uh, not sure. Feeling kind of weird actually.
TAWNY: Tawny grabs Trevor's balls and he jumps away as if jolted by a cattle-prod.
TREVOR: I've never said this to a woman before but can't we talk a little bit before grabbing at each other?
TAWNY: ( grinning ) God. Sometimes you can be such an animal. Other times you are the ultimate tease.
TREVOR: Wow. That's good. Lots of capers, huh?
TAWNY: For starters. It's also got fennel, asparagus, olives, some more of mother nature's aphrodisiacs. Back in college, me and my roommates used to call it hard- on stew.
TREVOR: Not a very appetizing name.
TAWNY: Have some more.
TREVOR: You must have been very proud of It's getting hot in here.
TAWNY: It's getting hot in here.
TREVOR: Jesus. who did that to you?
TAWNY: You're kidding right?
TREVOR: Tawny I think I'm going to be sick.
TAWNY: Well now there's a compliment.
ALLISON: Sorry about that. There was a blockage in your oxygen hose. Won't happen again,
TREVOR: I'm certainly keeping you busy huh?
ALLISON: ( smiling ) Too bad I hate my job.
TREVOR: These hallucinations I'm having. I think they're more like memories coming back to me in a strange way.
ALLISON: Well that's not necessarily a bad thing is it?
TREVOR: If they're blocked memories. I'm starting to realize the reason why I blocked them out. Allison I think I really. screwed everything up.
ALLISON: Shh. Don't blame yourself Trevor. Please.
TREVOR: I miss her. I miss my wife.
ALLISON: If you need to cry, go ahead. I won't
LANGE'S VOICE: ( from answering machine ) This is Lange. We need to talk as soon as possible. It's about your little. dilemma. Give me a call.
TAWNY: Can I help you?
TREVOR: Tawny. I- you're-
TAWNY: Whoa, I have serious space issues, dude. What do you want?
TREVOR: I. think we need to talk, there's something really strange going on.
TAWNY: ( a look of recognition ) Hey you're the guy from down the hall.
TREVOR: Come on, quit fucking around. Listen it's about. what we did together last night.
TAWNY: ( utterly shocked )
WHAT?!: A VERY DEEP VOICE comes from somewhere behind her.
VOICE: Who the fuck is that?
TAWNY: It's that guy from down the hall. He thinks we did something with him last Who's- who's in there with you.?
TREVOR: Who's- who's in there with you.?
TAWNY: Are you cracking up or something?
BRUTE: What can we do for you, chief?
TREVOR: I. who are you?
BRUTE: You know Tawny, you better know me, pal.
TREVOR: Okay. I don't want any trouble. I was mistaken. I'll see you later.
BRUTE: Trevor turns and hurries off. Brute turns to Tawny who shrugs and makes a twirly motion at her temple. The two go back into her apartment.
TREVOR: You already asked me that ten minutes ago just before you put me on hold. I'm looking for defective- I mean Detective Oh he and his partner just stepped out to lunch, can I-?
OPERATOR: Oh he and his partner just stepped out to lunch, can I-?
TREVOR: Just open the doors I'll jump off.
BUS DRIVER: Not while the bus is moving, sir.
TREVOR: Where's my wife Detective Lange? What the hell did you do with her?!
LANGE: Mr. Gooding I assure you we are doing everything within our-
TREVOR: Why did you leave me that message?
LANGE: I don't know what you're talking about.
TREVOR: Trevor immediately turns around and walks OUT.
LIAR!: Trevor immediately turns around and walks OUT.
LARRY: ( not looking up ) Basically they know where your wife's body is and they're not telling you as a tactic to get you to confess? Yet neither of them has come out and told you that you're a suspect. Is that what you're trying to say?
TREVOR: Look Larry I know you never thought too much of me. And I know this all sounds a little fucked up.
LARRY: A little? Try unbelievably.
TREVOR: I swear these guys are like playing mindgames with me. I think they got a hold of my e-mail address at work too.
LARRY: Trevor barring the more outrageous aspects of your claim you are not the only widower the police have questioned when foul play is suspected.
TREVOR: Hey ninety five point three percent of all murders are committed by either a spouse, a direct relative or a close friend that's common knowledge. But this wasn't murder it was an accident-
LARRY: ( concentrating on his notes ) And as far as hiding a body goes? I find it hard to believe even the dirtiest of cops would keep a victim's remains hidden simply to get someone to confess. It's absolutely preposterous. Now I'm not saying I don't believe you, I'm..ambiguous. There's quite alot of money behind all this.
TREVOR: How much do I stand to inherit if Kirsty is presumed dead?
LARRY: Rosie can you bring in the Gooding Right away Mr. Ellis.
ASSISTANT'S VOICE: ( from intercom ) Right away Mr. Ellis.
TREVOR: Uh. Ballpark would be fine Larry.
LARRY: In the vicinity of eight million four hundred fifty thousand. Or is it sixty-
TREVOR: What happens if I'm convicted of Kirsty's Well they'd have to prove it in a court of law for one thing-
LARRY: Well they'd have to prove it in a court of law for one thing-
TREVOR: Please Larry. Pretend you like me and humor me.
LARRY: Seeing you were her sole benefactor, and I'm the executive of the will, Kirsty's entire estate would have to be donated to the city.
TREVOR: Hello? City? Cops? It's a fucking Pardon my glibness Trevor but you sound like a raving lunatic. The next time you seek counsel it should be of the psychiatric type. You're obviously on the verge of some nervous collapse.
LARRY: Pardon my glibness Trevor but you sound like a raving lunatic. The next time you seek counsel it should be of the psychiatric type. You're obviously on the verge of some nervous collapse.
TREVOR: Thanks for your concern Larry. And fuck you too.
LARRY: ( to Trevor's back ) I never thought your late wife was the sharpest knife in the drawer. But marrying you was the dumbest thing she ever did!
TREVOR: You can go. I'm going to be here a while.
ALLISON: Jesus I wish you would stop doing that.
TREVOR: Trevor tries to put his thoughts together.
ALLISON: Well Trevor? What have you got to say for yourself? Que pasa?
TREVOR: ( voice quivering ) Allison we have GOT to talk about this medication you've got me on.
ALLISON: I'm all over it.
TREVOR: ( weary ) Really? Does it affect the memory?
ALLISON: You're one tough cookie, Trevor Gooding. You keep coming back to your corner for a quick fix up then go right back out into the ring for another round.
TREVOR: Some call it resilience. Others,
ALLISON: ( surprised at her own emotional Of course, yes.
TREVOR: The way you just looked at me.
ALLISON: I know, my bedside manner's horrendous.
TREVOR: So, I'm done. Thats it for today?
ALLISON: All finished. How bout some lunch?
TREVOR: Think about it. In the entire world where's the most life-threatening place you could possibly be at any given I don't know. Beirut? New Orleans?
ALLISON: I don't know. Beirut? New Orleans?
TREVOR: Hint. It's not a geographical location.
ALLISON: I'm stumped.
TREVOR: It's inside a moving car.
ALLISON: ( CONTINUED )
TREVOR: I've got numbers to back me up. Over the course of one year more Americans die in car accidents than did during the entire span of World War II.
ALLISON: Okay so. what's the safest place?
TREVOR: Statistically speaking? Inside a moving
ALLISON: Okay Mr. Statistics I've got one for you. What's the most common cause of death for adults over the age of eighteen?
TREVOR: Please. Heart attack. That was easy Second most common?
ALLISON: Second most common?
TREVOR: Skin cancer.
ALLISON: Eighty third most common.
TREVOR: Pitbull attacks.
ALLISON: You just made that up.
TREVOR: Like you're gonna check.
ALLISON: Where you two happy together?
TREVOR: We startred off to be. She was, I guess I was. I just sort of..butchered up the relationship somehow. ( to himself ) Bad choice of words.
ALLISON: I understand, I think. Other women?
TREVOR: Yeah. It's like I was a different guy then I am today. I can't remember that guy. I see these women, they think I'm someone else, and I'm not that guy anymore. I'm not sure who Kristy knew.
ALLISON: You were unfaithful, it sounds like your I did more then that. Com'on. How bout some fresh air?
TREVOR: I did more then that. Com'on. How bout some fresh air?
ALLISON: Com'on. How bout some fresh air?
TREVOR: Lucky for us these chairs happened to be Oh I knew about the chairs already. This is where the emphysema patients come to sneak cigarettes.
ALLISON: Oh I knew about the chairs already. This is where the emphysema patients come to sneak cigarettes.
TREVOR: No. She just would have loved it up here. Allison when I was under. did I ever talk?
ALLISON: Sure plenty of times.
TREVOR: Was there anything I said that made you stop and wonder, you know, "where did that come from?"
ALLISON: Sure plenty of times.
TREVOR: Trevor if someone is talking from a sleep state they are obviously dreaming. So practically everything say is going to sound strange.
ALLISON: Trevor if someone is talking from a sleep state they are obviously dreaming. So practically everything say is going to sound strange.
TREVOR: Did I ever talk about the accident?
ALLISON: Did I ever talk about Kirsty?
TREVOR: Did I ever talk about Kirsty?
ALLISON: No. But at one point you did repeat something though. A phrase. You must have been having this recurring dream, you just kept saying this one thing over and What was it?
TREVOR: What was it?
ALLISON: You said, "Jealousy arouses a husbands fury, and he will show no mercy when he takes revenge." ( Proverbs 6:34 ) Does that mean anything to you Trevor?
TREVOR: It means I have alot more questions.
ALLISON: Times up for today. I've got to get back.
ALLISON: If it makes you feel better that took every ounce of self control I had. Trevor, I never date patients.
TREVOR: I understand. I won't-
ALLISON: No you don't understand. That's why I've been fighting to get you better. So you wouldn't be a patient anymore.
TREVOR: Why didn't you tell me sooner? I would have switched doctors!
ALLISON: Just get better okay?
TREVOR: Don't say a word, Bret.
BRET: ( to Lange ) Guess I'll leave you two alone.
LANGE: ( concentrating on the computer ) Nice chatting with ya.
TREVOR: No please make yourself at home.
LANGE: How's everything, Mr. Gooding?
TREVOR: Can't we dispense with the games for I thought you loved games.
LANGE: I thought you loved games.
TREVOR: I'll just stay out of this conversation until you come out and tell me why you've disrupted me at work.
LANGE: You and your wife were playing a game shortly before you got into that car accident weren't you?
TREVOR: Where is she? Where is my wife?
LANGE: We found this curious little object not too far from the site of the accident. No prints but forensics scraped a little dark residue that was caked on one of the corners. It was blood Trevor. Matched some blood we took off your car seat too. Can you tell me anything about it?
TREVOR: ( to Lange ) It looks familiar. I think it was in the Gee you think so?
LANGE: Gee you think so?
TREVOR: The whackjob in the black lipstick who lives down the hall? She wanted you arrested for harassment. I told her to chill out and smoke a joint. I'd look the other way as long as she did you know?
LANGE: The whackjob in the black lipstick who lives down the hall? She wanted you arrested for harassment. I told her to chill out and smoke a joint. I'd look the other way as long as she did you know?
TREVOR: We're all here for you Trevor. We're sorry the number you have has either been disconnected or no longer in service. If you feel you have reached this recording in error-
LANGE: We're all here for you Trevor. We're sorry the number you have has either been disconnected or no longer in service. If you feel you have reached this recording in error-
BRET: Frogurt guy's here. They're all out chocolate vanilla swirl or I'd have gotten you one.
TREVOR: I'm sure you would have. Hey if you're not doing anything I'd like to buy you a beer after work. Be just like old times.
BRET: Hey if you're not doing anything I'd like to buy you a beer after work. Be just like old times.
TREVOR: What's the occasion?
BRET: I quit. Today's my last day.
BRET: I've got a better offer. More time off. A sort of career shift, more in the engineering line of work.
TREVOR: How much time off?
BRET: As much as he feels like. Its a much more pleasurable line of work.
TREVOR: As much as he likes?
BRET: Yahtzee. Were all in this together Trev. Trevor there are people who are doing exactly what we're doing but they don't need to wear a tie, punch a clock or have some tight assed supervisor breathing down their necks. Its all about the pleasure Trevor!
TREVOR: So you're just packing it up just like Almost that fast. I got a few loose ends to tie up first. Came into a shitload of money recently. I've always wanted to go to take a trip. We're just gonna walk into the airport and decide right then and there.
BRET: Almost that fast. I got a few loose ends to tie up first. Came into a shitload of money recently. I've always wanted to go to take a trip. We're just gonna walk into the airport and decide right then and there.
TREVOR: Yeah? You and who else?
BRET: Someone special.
FLASHBACK: Trevor in the car in the water. Thrashing about, he bleeding from his head in the flashback as well. Where's Kristy? He looks in the passenger seat. She's gone. Trevor takes the cube from the man with the ring. He fumbles with the puzzle box in the darkness. CU box. It starts to move. Trevor driving with Kristy, She's going down on him while he's driving.
KIRSTY: Okay pull over.
TREVOR: ( looking at his watch ) But. I thought.
KIRSTY: ( through clenched teeth )
TREVOR: Kristy noooo!
PINHEAD: There is no reprieve for you. Not even in her. She's only a vision I'm afraid.
END FLASHBACK: INT. PUB - DAY Trevor raises his head from the bar. The beers are there but Bret is gone. Trevors stares at himself in the mirror opposite the bar. He looks like shit. He thinks hard about the flashback. Out the door he goes.
TREVOR: ( into phone ) Yes I'm trying to reach one of your interns. Allison Dormere.? She works in the emergency room there. What do you mean.? I just saw her today. Yes I'm sure she works there I've been in and out of that place five times in the last month.! Well good day to you too
WIMPERING VOICE: ( from phone ) You miserable sonofabitch!
TREVOR: WIMPERING VOICE
WIMPERING VOICE: You miserable sonofabitch!
SAGE'S VOICE: Sage it's me Trevor. You've got to help
TREVOR: Sage it's me Trevor. You've got to help
TREVOR: The feeling is very distinct. It's like somebody stuck a shard of glass through my eye and it's embedded halfway into my
SAGE: Trevor your body has been completely healed. All the nerve endings have repaired themselves. If there is any pain in your head it's. in your head.
TREVOR: Jeez it's getting awful crowded in there.
SAGE: You are physically better. It's your soul that still hurts.
TREVOR: Look, whatever your Marharagi, told you, forget. You've got to get this fuckin pain to stop.
SAGE: It was an analogy. Your soul is locked up inside you. You need to free it Trevor. You've blocked it from the healing process. That's what we need to do now. Heal your soul. And to do that I you have to give in utterly and without any hesitation or doubt. Do you know what I mean by giving in? It's about trust. Do you trust me implicitly?
TREVOR: I don't even know what's real and what isn't how can I trust anyone?
SAGE: You can trust me. Your wife is dead and you need to move past that. And the only way to move past something completely is to go straight through it, not around it. Surrender yourself to your wife's death. Let it chew you up and spit you back out on the other side. It's the only way you can become whole again.
TREVOR: I surrender.
A MONTAGE: of Sage dimming the lights so that the room is nice and dark. placing needles into Trevor's body. his shoulders. his chest. his neck. his legs. his face. Trevor finally opens his eyes to find. . he's completely naked on Sage's table! And she's making love to his body, which is now filled with needles!
SAGE: ( whispering ) Surrender yourself. surrender
TREVOR: Kirsty. Kirsty?
KIRSTY: It's okay it was just a nightmare that's
TREVOR: You're alive.
KIRSTY: Yes. Now go back to sleep. You're driving the rest of the way to gramma's remember?
TREVOR: ( looking at the baby ) It's perfect.
KIRSTY: Well that was easy all of a sudden.
TREVOR: Kirsty. I'm glad you're alive.
PARAMEDIC: Can you hear me? Just nod.
TREVOR: We're just gonna take some blood here.
PARAMEDIC: We're just gonna take some blood here.
TREVOR: Can you follow them?
PARAMEDIC: Can you follow them?
TREVOR: You mean. when the car went off the Wow you are out of it.
PARAMEDIC: ( laughing ) Wow you are out of it.
TREVOR: No. maybe. I don't know.
PARAMEDIC: It's cool. Here we are.
DR. AMBROSE: Hello I'm Dr.
TREVOR: Ambrose. I know.
DR. AMBROSE: Have we met?
TREVOR: I've been in here before.
DR. AMBROSE: Take no offense Trevor. I see many patients a day and have an awful memory.
TREVOR: Join the club. Right. Trevor you just had a seizure brought on by a severe migraine. Things could be much worse. In the next few days you need to take plenty of aspirin, stay out of the sun and make sure you've had at least eight glasses of water by the time you go to bed at night.
TREVOR: Where's Allison?
DR. AMBROSE: Who's Allison?
TREVOR: Allison Dormere. Your intern.
DR. AMBROSE: Uh we have no intern by that name here Mr. Gooding. Listen I'll be back in a few hours to check up on you meantime relax try not to move around too much.
NURSE: There there Trevor. Get some sleep.
TREVOR: Don't tell me. ëWe're all here for you Trevor' right? Go ahead say it! You know you want to!
NURSE: What the hell are you talking about.?
DR. AMBROSE: Trevor races as fast as his feet can carry him easily losing Dr. Ambrose.
OLD MAN: ( wheezing ) Okay ya caught me.
TREVOR: I don't work here.
OLD MAN: Music to my ears. Trevor. I heard you were looking for me. Is everything all right?
ALLISON: Trevor. I heard you were looking for me. Is everything all right?
TREVOR: Allison! Am I glad to see you! ( changing his tone ) No. everything's not right. Not at all.
ALLISON: Come here. Allison I think I did some very, very bad things. I mean very bad.
TREVOR: Allison I think I did some very, very bad things. I mean very bad.
ALLISON: Trevor things like this happen to people who experience temporary memory loss. Everybody does things they regret. You just couldn't remember doing these things and now you are so it's a shock to the system. I'm telling you. You will never get better if you keep blaming yourself for your wife's death.
TREVOR: Maybe I wasn't responsible for the car
OLD MAN: Hey buddy!
TREVOR: ( ignoring him ) . but I'm starting to think I was. I was going to.
OLD MAN: Hey buddy!
TREVOR: What do you want?!
OLD MAN: ( wheezing ) Who the hell are you talking to?
BUS DRIVER: This is it mister.
TREVOR: I don't know what I'm doing here. I'm not even Catholic. I just had to tell somebody. It's like, ever since my wife died I don't know what I've actually done or what I've imagined. But I do know if one tenth of what's happening to me is reality. I've done some really awful things in my life. Things that I've. I guess I've blocked out.
PRIEST: What things do you think you've done?
TREVOR: Wow. Let's see. So many sins so little time. For starters I was responsible for the death my wife who by the way was carrying my unborn child. That was so I could collect her eight million dollar estate. I think I killed several women I was having mindless sex with behind her
PRIEST: Trevor I'm sure you killed no one. You are very distraught over your wife's death and rightfully so. You did the right thing by confessing to me here tonight. And you should keep praying for the wisdom that will set your soul at ease. That being said, you are still in a highly emotional state right now. It might do you some good to get some professional help. Confess to them the way you confessed to me. In time you'll probably find that the real killer has already been caught. Or better yet. that these murders never happened at all.
TREVOR: But I saw these women. I saw their mutilated bodies. I saw their ghosts. I just know it happened I can feel it.
PRIEST: All you've got is the here and the now Trevor. That's all anyone really has. Maybe this will make things easier to understand. A man goes to sleep every night and has recurring dream that he's a butterfly. In time he begins to wonder if he might actually be a butterfly who dreams he's a man. And at the end of the day does it even matter? All these events you're describing. How can you be sure any of them really happened?
TREVOR: But that's what I need. To be sure. to be absolutely sure.
PRIEST: Shh. It's okay son. There is but one truth. One thing you can be absolutely sure of. And that thing is this:
PINHEAD: Still in the dark I see?
TREVOR: Who are you?
PINHEAD: Poor Trevor.
TREVOR: This game is over do you hear me?
PINHEAD: I hear everything. And soon you will know everything. More than you ever wanted I can guarantee that. But I want you to think for a minute first. Think about all you've seen. All the clues you've been
TREVOR: WHERE'S MY WIFE?!
BRET: Tonight was supposed to be the night, Trevor. Remember? I couldn't believe you went through five dart games and didn't even joke about it.
TREVOR: Bret. What the hell is going on?
BRET: We were gonna be millionaires you said. Nobody'd suspect a thing. I had never even met her. No connection. Then you went and had that fucking car accident.
TREVOR: Bret you are making no sense whatsoever.
BRET: I followed her Trevor. I got to know her life. And what a boring one it was. Six a.m. gym, nine a.m. trendy coffee shop, noon bookstore, one soap operas, four o'clock news, five wait for Trevor to come home. And wait and wait and wait. Nine o'clock get ready for bed.
TREVOR: Bret drags the knife across his own jugulars slicing them open. Blood pours out of his smiling mouth. Then something really weird happens. Cuts begin to open up all over Bret's face and his hands. Blood pouring to the ground in buckets. Bret lifelessly falls into the pool of blood. Before he can process what's just happened, Trevor hears a NOISE behind him and turns to see. several of those slithering sewer monsters coming toward him, surrounding him. And behind them, SEVERAL SILHOUETTED FIGURES walking slowly toward him. We don't need three guesses to figure out who they are. CENOBITES. Panicking Trevor reaches down and grabs the knife out of Bret's hand and readies himself for the inevitable attack -the BLINDING LIGHT FROM A POLICE car illuminates the alley. First Trevor notices the sewer monsters are gone.
LANGE: Okay Trevor. Put the knife down.
COP#1: Full name?
TREVOR: Trevor Alan Gooding.
COP#1: Thirty one.
TREVOR: Thirty one.
HAPLESS SOUL: I told you I don't know!
DETECTIVE#1: Wrong answer!
COP#1: Single file.
MAN: We're all here for you Trevor.
COP#1: NO TALKING!
NO TALKING!: INT. LINE UP ROOM - NIGHT Trevor walks IN with the rest of the gentlemen. Hugging the nearest wall they go up a small set of stairs onto a stage. Trevor hears Lange's VOICE overhead.
LANGE'S VOICE: Stop and face the mirror!
BRUTE: I hope they fry your ass mutherfucker!
COP#1: Got quite a fan club don't you, hotshot?
TREVOR: For the last time. I honestly don't know how any of them died.
GIVENS: Now I want you to tell me what you remember happening- in your own words- exactly the way you told Detective Lange. But this time I want you to make one small adjustment.
TREVOR: What's that?
LANGE: DON'T FUCKING LIE TO ME!
TREVOR: I did it. I killed them all. I confess.
LANGE: ( to the cops ) Quick detour through the morgue boys.
TREVOR: That's right Trevor. The timing was impeccable wasn't it? It's been eight months two weeks and three days but we finally found the body. Just need you to ID it for us.
LANGE: That's right Trevor. The timing was impeccable wasn't it? It's been eight months two weeks and three days but we finally found the body. Just need you to ID it for us.
TREVOR: Where was it?
LANGE: Just keep walking Trevor. You can't miss
PINHEAD: How is our little student doing? Has he learned his lesson yet?
TREVOR: I don't know who you are or what you want. I just want to know what's under that sheet.
PINHEAD: Use your mind for something other than numbers dear Trevor. Think about people for a change. People other than yourself. Like the women you slept with behind your wife's back. You were always so confident you had covered your tracks. Always confident your wife actually believed your fervent denials? Part of you must have known she would find out.
PINHEAD: Even a mind as narcissistic as yours must have wondered: What unspeakable acts was your wife committing behind YOUR
KIRSTY: ( to camera ) Goodbye you miserable sonofabitch!
TREVOR: What's under that sheet.?
PINHEAD: You probably don't remember the night we played. Your first year as husband and
PINHEAD: We were about to come for Kirsty. When we were offered a deal. We don't usually consider bargains but this one was too good to pass up. A tribute to the resourcefulness of a parent hellbent on protecting its spawn. The deal we were offered was this: three more souls in exchange for the life of the unborn child inside Kirsty. The three souls had already been picked out. Needless to say we were very impressed.
TREVOR: WHAT'S UNDER THE SHEET?
PINHEAD: ( smiling ) Welcome to the worst nightmare of them all, Trevor. Reality.
LANGE: Open this and your problem will disappear forever. And no one will ever suspect
KIRSTY: Shhh it's okay.
NOOO!!: ( CONTINUED )
KIRSTY'S VOICE: Yes. Yes that's him.
LANGE: Well I guess that's it then. Thank you Mrs. Gooding I realize that must have been tough.
DR. AMBROSE: Alrighty. Let's get started folks.
SAGE: Collecting 40ccs of serum.
AMBROSE: Examining cranial fracture.
ALLISON: Looks like an eel of some kind.
AMBROSE: Guess it was murder after all.
SAGE: Yeah all we need is the eel's motive.
ALLISON: I still don't get it. He's been missing for almost eight months. But this body hasn't been dead more than twenty four Makes you wonder what he was up to between the time he disappeared and when he died.
DR. AMBROSE: Makes you wonder what he was up to between the time he disappeared and when he died.
ALLISON: Well? What do you say Trevor? Que pasa?
DR. AMBROSE: ( shivering ) Allison what on earth possesses you to converse with cadavers?
SAGE: ( looking at Trevor's corpse ) It's simple, Dr. Ambrose. What if there is no afterlife? What happens when we die? Do we just stay stuck inside your bodies for eternity watching ourselves I'm not following this.
AMBROSE: I'm not following this.
ALLISON: Well if that's the case. wouldn't you want someone to talk to you like a normal human being one last time?
AMBROSE: You two are creeping me out. And I'm a
KIRSTY: I would have come in sooner but I had an important errand to run last night. Out of town. Figures you'd find his body the minute I decide to go off somewhere.
LANGE: Well you made it down here that's the important part. Thank you for your patience Mrs. Gooding.
KIRSTY: Of course. That was my. last anniversary present to him.
LANGE: A token to remember him by now. Goodbye Mrs. Gooding.
KIRSTY: Thank you detective.
LARRY: Looking for someone, Kirsty?
KIRSTY: ( taking the baby ) You bet I was.
NANNY: Lactose intolerance. I've stocked the fridge with Lactaid.
KIRSTY: See you in a couple of weeks. You've got my cell number right?
LARRY: Daisy is getting so big. I still can't believe HE was her father.
KIRSTY: Counselor can we not mention HIM anymore. Can we just start spending HIS money
LARRY: I've always wanted to go to Madagascar.
KIRSTY: You mean the place with bats?
LARRY: They're called flying lemurs.
KIRSTY: Yeah that sounds like a real blast. I've been thinking about it. This has to have been the best eight months of my
TAXI!: Something out the corner of her eye scares Kirsty. She turns to see Lange standing there.
LANGE: You forgot something.
KIRSTY: Oh. Thank you.
GIVENS: Thank YOU.
LARRY: After you my dear.
LARRY: ( to the cabbie ) Airport please. What's up?
KIRSTY: Time, Larry. Time's up.
BONG: Writers : Carl Dupre Clive Barker
BONG: Writers : Carl Dupre Clive Barker
BONG: Writers : Carl Dupre Clive Barker
BONG: Writers : Carl Dupre Clive Barker
