HENRY FOOL: Written by Hal Hartley
SHOOTING DRAFT: EXT. JUNK YARD DAY A garbage truck roars by and. Simon Grim hangs from the back of it. He is a shy, skinny and terrified-looking guy around thirty years old. The truck rumbles to a halt and Simon climbs down off it to go punch out at the time clock.
WARREN: ( to Amy ) You want some?
FAY: ( to Simon ) Where the hell have you been? ( to Mary ) Mom, come on and eat.
MARY: I'm not hungry.
FAY: ( pissed ) Then why'd I cook!
MARY: I don't know why you cooked! I don't know why you bother! Sit down and eat, Simon.
FAY: Sit down and eat, Simon.
FAY: God, I wanna get fucked.
FAY: You OK?
FAY: See ya later.
HENRY: Get up off your knees.
HENRY: Where you gotta go to get a six-pack of beer around here?
AMY: Say something.
WARREN: ( calling ) She's mute.
AMY: She don't you know talk.
WARREN: She don't you know talk.
AMY: Kiss my ass.
WARREN: ( scared ) Oh, shit! ( in Vietnamese ) Stay the hell out of my store, you good-for-nothing punks!
MR DENG: ( in Vietnamese ) Stay the hell out of my store, you good-for-nothing punks!
MR DENG: Look at this! What's going on here? Simon, get up off the floor! Is this beer paid for?
HENRY: ( off-screen ) Centuries ago it had an 'e' at the
SIMON: Where do you come from?
HENRY: Nowhere in particular.
HENRY: I go where I will and I do what I That's why I'm in trouble. I'm sort've what you might call. 'in exile'.
SIMON: Why are you in trouble?
HENRY: ( stopping ) An honest man is always in trouble, Simon. Remember that.
SIMON: How do you know my name?
SIMON: ( stopping him ) I am not retarded.
HENRY: ( pauses ) Well. I'll take your word for that.
SIMON: ( explaining ) People. I mean. They think. You know.
HENRY: I see. Here. Take this. And.
HENRY: Here. Take this. And.
HENRY: .this. Keep them with you at all times. You ever feel like you got something to say and you can't get it out, stop and write it down. OK?
SIMON: What are these?
HENRY: ( proudly, returning ) This? This is my life's work. My memoirs. My 'Confession'.
SIMON: ( carefully ) What have you done?
HENRY: ( wistfully ) I've been bad. Repeatedly. ( shrugs and steps away ) But why brag? The details of my exploits are only a pretext for a far more expansive consideration of general truths. ( contemplating the notebooks ) What is this? It's a philosophy. A poetics. A politics, if you will. A literature of protest. A novel of ideas. A pornographic magazine of truly comic-book proportions. It is, in the end, whatever the hell I want it to be. And when I'm through with it, it's gunna blow a hole this wide straight through the world's own idea of itself!
HENRY: ( throwing down his cigarette ) Come on, let's go break their arms!
SIMON: Henry stops. Simon looks away and sits back down.
SIMON: ( pauses ) If I'm quiet.
HENRY: Once. I forget where I was. Central America maybe. Somewhere hot. Stupid job. Bad pay. Dangerous location and water so foul the natives wouldn't even piss in it. This crowd of drunken motherfuckers hired by the local drug cartel shows up at my hotel room and threatens to tear me limb from limb. And I say, listen, hombres, OK, you've got me outnumbered four to one and you're gunna kill me here tonight and not a soul in this dimly lit world is ever gunna notice I'm gone. Fine. But one of you. one of you. one of you is gunna have his eye torn out. Period. Silence. I repeat myself. One of you poor, underpaid jerks is gunna have an eye ripped out of its socket. I promise. It's a small thing, perhaps, all things considered. But I will succeed. Because it's the only thing I have left to do in this world. So why don't you just take a good look at one another one last time and think it over for a few minutes more. They sober up a little, look at their shoes in confusion, then step out into the hall to talk among
SIMON: What happened?
HENRY: ( winking ) Well, here I am, still, after all.
MARY: ( off ) Did you throw up all over some girl?
MARY: They were throwing bottles at the
MARY: ( gesturing to Fay's room ) She's got some ex-con in there she met at the bar. Tattoos all over himself and a big red bloated nose.
SIMON: Did you take your pills?
SIMON: You want me to tell her to be quiet?
MARY: What's the use? She might as well get it while she can. She's not always gunna have the ass she has now, you know. That's just how life is.
HENRY: Good morning, Simon! Glorious day, huh? Here, have a donut. Can you lend me twenty dollars?
HENRY: Thanks. Where's the library in the scruffy little burgh?
SIMON: ( handing him cash ) Down the highway about a mile and a half and then make a left.
HENRY: Excellent! I'm polishing up the final chapters of my 'Confession' and I need a reasonably well-stocked reference section.
HENRY: What's this?
SIMON: I thought. Um. I was. I wanted to.
HENRY: Can I take this?
HENRY: I'll correct the spelling.
SIMON: ( weakly, unheard ) One of you is gunna lose an eye.
SIMON: ( screaming ) One of you is gunna lose an eye!
SIMON: One of you. I promise.
SIMON: You can set me on fire. But one of you is gunna have an eye torn out of your head. I promise.
WARREN: Take me home.
AMY: Take me home.
HENRY: ( scared ) Simon! Who did this to you?
SIMON: I was gunna tear out their eyes. I knew I could do it.
HENRY: Whose eyes?
SIMON: I told them. Like you said. I told them. And I knew I could do it.
MR DENG: You should take him home. He smells like a toilet.
FAY: ( calling ) Shit, Mom, we gotta get him to a Oh, shut up! Turn around.
SIMON: Oh, shut up! Turn around.
FAY: Oh, shut up! Turn around.
MARY: This kinda thing has happened before.
HENRY: ( standing ) It won't happen again.
MARY: How do you know? This your husband?
HENRY: This your husband?
MARY: Stop that.
MR DENG: ( nods to Mary, then ) Mr Fool, what is this?
HENRY: It's poetry.
MR DENG: Are you sure?
HENRY: Of course I'm sure. I corrected the spelling myself.
MR DENG: It made my daughter sing.
HENRY: Yeah, well, you know that's what poetry does.
MR DENG: But she has never spoken in her life.
SIMON: Keep still!
FAY: Keep still!
SIMON: Let me do it!
FAY: ( fed up ) Fine! You do it, Simon! I don't care! Mom! Simon's got a broken rib, his shoulder's dislocated or something, and he won't let me disinfect the gash in his head!
FAY: Mom! Simon's got a broken rib, his shoulder's dislocated or something, and he won't let me disinfect the gash in his head!
MARY: Fay, just take him to the hospital, will ya!
FAY: ( stamping her foot ) But he won't go!
MARY: ( screaming ) Simon Grim, you go to the hospital with Fay right now, do hear me!
HENRY: We gotta talk.
HENRY: What the hell were you trying to do when you wrote this thing?
SIMON: Well, you know you wrote it in a kind of iambic pentameter.
HENRY: Well, you know you wrote it in a kind of iambic pentameter.
SIMON: Iambic what?
HENRY: He scratches his chin and smokes.
HENRY: Look, in my opinion, this is pretty powerful stuff. Though your spelling is Neanderthal, and your reasoning a little naive, your instincts are profound. But the whole thing needs to be given a more cohesive shape. It can be expanded. Followed through. You see what I'm getting at?
HENRY: Are you willing to commit yourself to this? To really work on it? To give it its due? In the face of adversity and discouragement? To rise to the challenge you yourself have set?
HENRY: And don't gimme that wonderstruck bullshit, either.
SIMON: It hurts to breathe.
HENRY: ( nodding ) Of course it does.
SIMON: Like this?
HENRY: Yeah. No. OK?
SIMON: Don't move! Fuck. There.
HENRY: Don't move! Fuck. There.
SIMON: Are you sure that's right?
HENRY: Yes. Now shut up and lie back.
SIMON: Is this gunna hurt?
HENRY: He pauses, then leans back.
HENRY: You gunna be alright?
HENRY: Here. Bite on this.
SIMON: ( spots blood on it ) What's that?
HENRY: ( looking ) It's blood. From your head. Lie back. Shove that in your mouth and hold on to something.
HENRY: Okay. You ready?
SIMON: Fay turns and runs down the stairs. Mary backs away into her room and shuts the door.
FAY: So, do you have, like, you know, a girlfriend, Henry?
HENRY: They drink again in silence. He lights her cigarette and they watch each other closely. Finally, Fay leans on the table and twirls a strand of her hair between her fingers.
FAY: Do you find me attractive?
HENRY: Yes, I do.
FAY: I look young for my age, don't I?
HENRY: How old are you?
FAY: How old do you think I am?
HENRY: You look young.
FAY: ( playfully ) How young?
HENRY: I don't know. Young.
FAY: But how. I mean, do I look more like twenty, or. you know, thirty?
HENRY: Fay jumps up, furious.
FAY: Listen, you geek, after a couple of drinks plenty of people mistake me for eighteen!
VICKY: Hey, Warren, are you a registered Bug off, Vicky!
WARREN: Bug off, Vicky!
WARREN: ( reading ) 'Saving America From Itself.' What the fuck is this?
VICKY: It's everything you need to know about the upcoming elections and congressman Owen Feer and all the really good things he wants to do for our country.
WARREN: Oh yeah, like what?
VICKY: He wants to win back this country for us Americans, Warren, and restore some kind of cultural-moral standard to our way of life.
WARREN: What time's your kid go off to school?
VICKY: ( carefully ) Nine o'clock.
WARREN: How about I come over and visit you
VICKY: Well, I don't know, Warren. I mean.
WARREN: Come on. I mean it. I'm trying to
VICKY: ( screaming at Mr Deng ) How dare you put something like this up where anyone can see it!
MR DENG: ( to Vicky ) It's poetry.
VICKY: It's pornography! The product of a diseased mind! You oughta be ashamed of yourself, Mr Deng!
MR DENG: It made Gnoc sing.
VICKY: ( pauses, confused ) It's disgusting! There oughta be a law or something!
HENRY: ( winking ) There's no accounting for taste, is there, Mr Deng?
HENRY: See, Simon, there are three kinds of there. There's 'There'. T-H-E-R-E. There are the donuts. Then there's T- H-E-I-R; which is the possessive. It is their donut. Then, finally, there's 'they're'. T-H-E-Y-'-R-E. A contraction, meaning they are. They're the donut people. Get it?
SIMON: Henry lifts up one of Simon's newly acquired classics.
HENRY: And look, if you're gunna read Wordsworth you've gotta get a more up-to-date edition. This odoriferous tome you're so attached to doesn't even have all fourteen books of the Prelude. And you need notes. Commentary. I'll go to the library and find you the best edition they Thank you, but that's OK. I'll stop there on my way back from work. Well, yes, maybe not today, but, you know, tomorrow, probably.
SIMON: Thank you, but that's OK. I'll stop there on my way back from work. Well, yes, maybe not today, but, you know, tomorrow, probably.
HENRY: My job?
SIMON: My job?
HENRY: You need time to write, Simon. To study. To reflect.
SIMON: You need time to write, Simon. To study. To reflect.
HENRY: You need time to write, Simon. To study. To reflect.
SIMON: But I like my job.
HENRY: We all have to make sacrifices. A vocation like ours, Simon, is not a nine to five thing. You can't put a fence around a man's soul. We think and feel where and when we can think and feel. We are the servants of our muse and we toil where she commands.
SIMON: She's clinically depressed.
HENRY: Yeah, and what's that mean?
SIMON: ( thinking, then ) I guess it means it's not her fault.
HENRY: ( sighing ) You ever think of leaving?
SIMON: To go where?
HENRY: To go where?
SIMON: To go where?
HENRY: Out there. You know, into the world. Where ever.
SIMON: Yeah, I guess.
HENRY: ( reciting ) 'Opportunity will step away and make room for a man to pass it by.'
SIMON: Is that from your book?
HENRY: No. I found it in a fortune cookie.
SIMON: Can I read your confession?
HENRY: No. Not yet. Soon. We'll see.
SIMON: Is it almost finished?
HENRY: ( puffing himself up ) Well, you know, Simon, a piece of work like this, it's. A vocation like ours. You can't put a fence around a man's soul. What I'm trying to achieve, it's. Well, it takes a lifetime really. It's a life's work. ( looking around ) But soon. Don't worry. I'd appreciate your feedback. I gotta go. See ya.
MARY: What are you doing there, Simon? I'm writing a poem.
SIMON: I'm writing a poem.
PAT: So what? It ain't so great.
CHRIS: ( to Amy, of Simon ) That him?
AMY: ( off ) Pardon me, Simon.
AMY: Uhm. Look, ah. I'm the editor of the high school newspaper now and.
PAT: One of the editors.
AMY: One of the editors, and we.
PAT: I. wanted to know if we could print your poem in this month's issue.
AMY: I. wanted to know if we could print your poem in this month's issue.
SIMON: Because I think it's great.
AMY: Because I think it's great.
PAT: I don't.
CHRIS: ( to Pat ) Who cares what you think?
TED: You're a drag.
CHRIS: A well-known drag.
AMY: ( to Simon )
FAY: Ma, you take your medication?
FAY: ( to herself ) Guess so.
HENRY: Evening, Fay.
FAY: ( disdainfully ) What do you want?
HENRY: I've got these books for Simon.
FAY: Well, leave 'em there on the counter,
WARREN: Hey, Simon, you a registered voter?
WARREN: He leaves. Simon looks down and studies the flyer.
FAY: Where is he?
FAY: Nothing. She comes to the top of the stairs and hears faint activity from down below. She proceeds downstairs. She sees no one in the kitchen, then looks in the living- room and stops. She goes white, her mouth falling open in Henry and Mary are screwing one another on the couch. Sloppy, impassioned, brute sex.
FAY: ( screaming )
MARY: You bastard!
HENRY: Get out!
MARY: Get out!
HENRY: Listen. I know a man. He's a big shot in the publishing business. Angus James. Smart, adventurous and tons of integrity. When this thing is ready, I'll recommend he reads it. He'll respect my opinion. A man was here today looking for What man?
SIMON: A man was here today looking for What man?
HENRY: ( alert ) What man?
SIMON: I don't know. He drove by the house a few times.
HENRY: Why do they torment me like this? Why? They're like a bunch of fucking
SIMON: What do they want from you?
HENRY: They want to suffocate me, Simon! They wanna extinguish me like a flame!
TIM: But why?
HENRY: They're afraid, that's why! They're afraid of what I might do! What I might say! Think! They're afraid of my ideas!
HENRY: You and I are alike in this way, We're outsiders. We think and feel too much and too deeply. And the world can't handle that. Our mere existence is a threat to its illusion of security. Sure, they'll name a wing of a new library after us when we're dead! But now. Now, when we're alive. Now, they wanna burn us at the stake!
SIMON: We're outsiders. We think and feel too much and too deeply. And the world can't handle that. Our mere existence is a threat to its illusion of security. Sure, they'll name a wing of a new library after us when we're dead! But now. Now, when we're alive. Now, they wanna burn us at the stake!
HENRY: We're outsiders. We think and feel too much and too deeply. And the world can't handle that. Our mere existence is a threat to its illusion of security. Sure, they'll name a wing of a new library after us when we're dead! But now. Now, when we're alive. Now, they wanna burn us at the stake!
HENRY: Tim hesitates, but then obeys. He gets up and leaves. Henry returns to Simon.
HENRY: For example, I made love to your mother about half an hour ago and now I'm beginning to think that maybe it wasn't such a good idea.
HENRY: I mean to say, I think Fay may be
SIMON: I don't want to think about this.
HENRY: Bad move, Simon.
HENRY: ( pointing at him ) A poet has got to be able to think about anything.
SIMON: Am I really a poet?
HENRY: Of course you are! A great poet! But you need experience. You need to do something to be ashamed of every once in a while, for cryin' out loud.
HENRY: Come on! Let's go out! There's a den of iniquity right across the street! You got any money?
MARY: That man's a bad influence.
SIMON: On who?
HENRY: ( shoving him ) Simon. Hey, Simon. ( Simon wakes ) Come on. I got ya some coffee.
SIMON: What's this?
HENRY: It's a computer. You write on it.
HENRY: Here's the manual.
SIMON: Where'd you get it?
HENRY: I stole it. Now listen. Remember how yesterday we discussed the relative desirability of cadence in relation to the readability of.
FAY: ( off ) Oh, shit! Not you again!
HENRY: Simon, I can't work under these Yeah! Get outta here, you freak!
FAY: Yeah! Get outta here, you freak!
HENRY: Get a life!
FAY: Eat shit and die, Henry!
MARY: ( screaming ) Beast! Fiend! Rapist!
FAY: Oh, shut up, Mom!
SIMON: Henry, wait up!
HENRY: I am not a rapist!
HENRY: Shit. Come on, this way.
HENRY: Keep a look out. Tell me when he's
SIMON: Henry, what's going on? Who is that guy? What's he want?
HENRY: He wants to help me! He wants to be my friend.
SIMON: Help you with what?
HENRY: ( suddenly )
HENRY: What's wrong?
FATHER HAWKES: I doubt.
HENRY: So, you're an honest man. Why beat yourself up about it?
FATHER HAWKES: I don't know if there are grounds for faith. Is my vocation relevant? Does it make a difference?
SIMON: A difference in what?
FATHER HAWKES: The world. The way it is. Is this a way to help relieve suffering?
HENRY: Your vocation makes a difference.
FATHER HAWKES: How can you be so sure?
HENRY: Because vocation is the difference. Only someone who really cares doubts. Listen, father, as I was about to tell my friend Simon here, I am, without doubt, the biggest sinner within a hundred miles of this parish. But still, I've gotta stay up late at night to outdo the unending parade of mundane little atrocities I see committed every day right out in the open spaces of this loud and sunlit culture we call home.
FATHER HAWKES: You seem to me to be a sensitive and generous man.
HENRY: I like to think so. But the fact is I appreciate depravity. Nevertheless, I insist your vocation makes a difference, because to hold out anything other than a spiritual yardstick to reality is to be jerking off grandly into the abyss. Listen, have you got any money? Let's go have a drink.
WARREN: Excuse me, miss, are you a registered Oh God, really I don't know.
MISS: Oh God, really I don't know.
WARREN: Well, I'd like to give you some information about Congressman Owen Feer. This man is gunna make a big difference in the lives of every American in the years to come.
MISS: Thanks, sure. I gotta go, thanks.
WARREN: Pardon me, sir.
BILL: Fuck off!
WARREN: Warren stands back and loosens his tie. He looks over at Pearl age seven, who is sitting outside the store.
WARREN: What time's your mother get off work?
WARREN: Fay, are you a registered voter?
FAY: ( stopping ) Don't you dare talk that way to me! And keep your hands off my brother. Pearl, what are you doing here?
WARREN: I'm watchin' her.
FAY: You and Vicky get back together?
WARREN: I gotta regular job now and
FAY: I saw this retard on TV this morning.
WARREN: He's gunna be the next president of the United States of America, Fay.
FAY: Keep dreamin' Warren. The guy's a I like him!
WARREN: I like him!
FAY: Gimme a light.
WARREN: ( lighting her cigarette ) He's a decent man. He takes complicated issues and totally simplifies them. And I appreciate You still sell dope?
FAY: You still sell dope?
WARREN: No. You know what the problem is with this country, Fay? Me. I'm the problem. We live in a culture of poverty and crime, where the work ethic is undermined and male responsibility is made irrelevant.
FAY: Come on, Pearl, let's go play at my She gives you any trouble, Fay, you just let me know.
WARREN: She gives you any trouble, Fay, you just let me know.
FATHER HAWKES: Do you think human beings are innately Worse than bad! Monstrous! But I love that about them. Wake up, Simon!
HENRY: Worse than bad! Monstrous! But I love that about them. Wake up, Simon!
WARREN: Jesus Christ, Simon, you're letting yourself go to hell! You read that flyer I gave you?
SIMON: Simon, wake up and smell the coffee, huh! It's up to guys like you and me to help create a better tomorrow!
WARREN: Simon, wake up and smell the coffee, huh! It's up to guys like you and me to help create a better tomorrow!
WARREN: ( to Vicky ) Why would I steal a computer from the campaign office?
VICKY: I'm not saying you did, I'm just saying one was and since you do have this criminal background.
WARREN: ( pointing ) Don't judge me!
BUÑUEL: Look, I know you know him. People have seen you around together. I'm his parole officer.
BUÑUEL: I'm his parole officer.
SIMON: What did he do?
BUÑUEL: I'm not supposed to talk about that stuff with people.
SIMON: He's my. Friend.
BUÑUEL: Mr Deng says you're some sort of a poet, or something.
BUÑUEL: You tell Henry to call me Officer Buñuel pronto! Or they're gunna chuck his ass straight back into jail! Got it? Vicky, look I'm sorry.
WARREN: Vicky, look I'm sorry.
VICKY: Don't you even come near me!
FAY: What do you mean, you quit?
SIMON: I quit my job.
FAY: There are things I want to do.
SIMON: There are things I want to do.
FAY: Like what?
SIMON: 'Opportunity will step out of the way to let a man. pass it by.'
FAY: Are you drunk?
SIMON: Now you have to go out and get a I am not gettin' a job! Who's gunna look after Mom!
FAY: I am not gettin' a job! Who's gunna look after Mom!
SIMON: I will.
FAY: Pearl, go outside.
SIMON: If you treat Mom like a sick person, she's gunna stay like. you know, a sick person.
FAY: Simon, don't be retarded.
SIMON: ( banging the table ) I am not retarded!
SIMON: I can see with my own eyes.
FAY: Mom can't be left alone with no one to keep an eye on her.
SIMON: Well, who's been keeping an eye on her while you've been out getting fucked by every OTB winner in town?
SIMON: Outside, Pearl turns and looks back at the house. Simon lies gasping on the floor of the kitchen. Fay falls back against the stove, terrified and drops her head into her hands.
FAY: ( sniffling ) What happened to her, Simon? How did she get this way? Will it happen to me too? Huh? Why are we so fucked
SIMON: ( approaching ) ( looking up and rising ) Simon! What are you doing here?
HENRY: ( looking up and rising ) Simon! What are you doing here?
SIMON: Henry. Your parole officer, Officer Buñuel, came by again today.
SIMON: He told me to tell you that if you don't call him they're gunna put you back in jail.
HENRY: He gave me this number.
SIMON: He gave me this number.
HENRY: He was talking to Mr Deng too, and, well, you know, I was thinking.
SIMON: He was talking to Mr Deng too, and, well, you know, I was thinking.
HENRY: Simon, just shut the fuck up!
HENRY: Forgive me.
HENRY: Forgive me, Simon.
SIMON: Call him, Henry. Please.
HENRY: OK. Look, do me a favor. You got a library card?
SIMON: Check this out for me.
HENRY: Check this out for me.
HENRY: Milton. Seventeenth century. English. You see, Simon, it's important my 'Confession' dig up the past, comb previous evidence and help chart the historic even the aesthetic inevitability of my ideas. And.
HENRY: This place is crawling with chicks, Simon. Wander around. Leer a little. Cop a feel. Impose yourself on 'em. See what happens.
SIMON: I make girls uncomfortable.
HENRY: Bullshit! You've got a rough hewn charm that sets 'em on edge. Now, listen, I gotta go.
SIMON: Henry stops and turns. Simon pauses, then.
SIMON: What did you do?
HENRY: I got caught.
SIMON: ( voice over ) 'Whereto with speedy words the arch- fiend replied Fallen Cherub, to be weak is miserable.'
SIMON: ( voice-over ) Why is it this beautiful girl makes me sad? Does she know how beautiful she is? Do people tell her? Does she ever feel stupid?
SIMON: Why don't I smile when she looks at me? I look away. Ashamed of myself.
SIMON: Her figure makes me violent. I want to somehow break her. But tenderly. How is this possible? Ask Henry.
SIMON: ( voice-over ) I can't breathe. ( voice-over ) Why do I do this to myself? And why do I reduce you to only one possibility? These are not even questions anymore. I know the answers myself. This isn't a page of notes. It's a letter. A letter to you. A desperate act. You are a miracle to me. I can't breathe.
SIMON: ( voice-over ) Why do I do this to myself? And why do I reduce you to only one possibility? These are not even questions anymore. I know the answers myself. This isn't a page of notes. It's a letter. A letter to you. A desperate act. You are a miracle to me. I can't breathe.
BUÑUEL: How are you, Henry?
HENRY: ( frowning ) Peachy. Gimme a light.
BUÑUEL: Have you found a job?
BUÑUEL: How 'bout those Alcoholics Anonymous meetings, did you go over and visit them yet?
HENRY: What happened to this assistant librarian position you were supposed to set me up with?
BUÑUEL: I tried, Henry. I really did.
HENRY: So what happened?
BUÑUEL: Henry, with your background. Well, I mean, with your record, they didn't think it'd be right to have you at the neighborhood library.
HENRY: Why not?
BUÑUEL: They thought you'd be a bad influence on the kids.
BUÑUEL: ( adds ) Or worse.
HENRY: So my word is not enough. My promise worthless. The fact I've served my time nothing but the emblem of my continuing guilt.
BUÑUEL: Henry leans back and sighs, furious and indignant.
FAY: What's up?
SIMON: ( guiltily ) I'm creating my résumé. This computer's got a program especially for it. I bought some special stationery too. It's scented. Look.
FAY: I'm creating my résumé. This computer's got a program especially for it. I bought some special stationery too. It's scented. Look.
FAY: It's roses.
SIMON: Can you type my poem into that thing?
FAY: ( shocked ) That's your poem?
SIMON: ( smokes, then ) Simon, Mom's right about you. A poem's supposed to be a small, delicate kinda thing. Kinda feminine. Gentle. Look at this. You've made a fuckin' telephone book.
FAY: ( smokes, then ) Simon, Mom's right about you. A poem's supposed to be a small, delicate kinda thing. Kinda feminine. Gentle. Look at this. You've made a fuckin' telephone book.
HENRY: I was caught. Yes, I was caught. once. I was caught in flagranti delicto screwing a thirteen-year-old girl named Susan. She was an ugly and mean-spirited kid, but she knew how to play upon my weaknesses which, I admit, are deep and many.
HENRY: You appear shocked.
SIMON: ( he is )
HENRY: It was a pathetic little conspiracy. A transparently desperate attempt to discredit me and my ideas; to label me a mere pedophile. As if I'd be ashamed of such a thing. As if Socrates himself hadn't been taken out of circulation for corrupting the youth of Athens!
HENRY: Seven years. Seven years for one afternoon of blissful transgression. But what of it? Who cares? Prison's not so bad; particularly if one's a sex offender, free from the popular and conventional horror of sodomy.
HENRY: They were not 'lost years'.
HENRY: I put them to good use. I began my major work. My opus.
HENRY: Believe me, Simon, this incident with the girl, prison. It pales to insignificance in the wider context of my career. Nothing in comparison to the day my 'Confession' is unleashed. What an orgy we'll have then, huh? What shouts of outrage from the offended populace, from the sanctimonious purveyors of culture and quality, the righteous defenders of what ever inane and haphazard notion of progress then in vogue. They'll be beside themselves with fiercely reasoned critical analysis. Apoplectic with indignation!
HENRY: Nothing in comparison to the day my 'Confession' is unleashed. What an orgy we'll have then, huh? What shouts of outrage from the offended populace, from the sanctimonious purveyors of culture and quality, the righteous defenders of what ever inane and haphazard notion of progress then in vogue. They'll be beside themselves with fiercely reasoned critical analysis. Apoplectic with indignation!
HENRY: Their feelings will be hurt.
HENRY: Yes, like a mirror which reflects only the inside of the person before it, my 'Confession' will lovingly render humanity's common monstrosity in all of its lurid wide screen glory.
HENRY: Why should I blush or feel shame before the common lot of humanity, anyway, for a few banal and, again I admit, inelegant transgressions?
HENRY: After all, really, I'm doing civilization a favor.
SIMON: When can I read it?
HENRY: INT. CHURCH DAY Next day. Simon and Father Hawkes are deep in conversation.
FATHER HAWKES: We are told not to judge. But to forgive. Not to look into our neighbor's eye to find the bad, but to find the good. Now this is difficult. I admit. But having a good friend is not always
SIMON: Yes, but. do you think Henry is.
FATHER HAWKES: He needs help. Our help. Yours But what can I do?
SIMON: But what can I do?
FATHER HAWKES: The best parts of himself come to the surface when he's helping someone learn. I've seen this. Let yourself be taught. Show your appreciation for his guidance. In this way, you know, perhaps. Well. There's hope for everyone. Even. Even Henry.
FAY: Gnoc, gimme a value pack of Kleenex, will ya?
TIM: The violence of the imagery reminds me of early Clash, while the lyricism of the verse recalls, for me, Walt I would have said Dickinson, maybe even Eliot, and so on. But I agree with the punk roots.
BIBI: I would have said Dickinson, maybe even Eliot, and so on. But I agree with the punk roots.
HENRY: The greats all say the same thing: little. And what little there is to be said is immense. Or, in other words, follow your own genius to where it leads without regard for the apparent needs of the world at large, which, in fact, has no needs as such, but, rather, moments of exhaustion in which it is incapable of prejudice. We can only hope to collide with these moments of unselfconsciousness. This divine fatigue. this.
FAY: ( sitting ) Push over.
HENRY: As I tried to make plain in Paris: 'Nous savons que nous avons chuté parce que nous savons qui nous sommes.' 'We know we have fallen because we know who we are.'
FAY: ( skeptically ) When were you in Paris?
HENRY: ( interrupted ) That's beside the point. But did they listen to me? Of course not!
SIMON: You alright, Fay?
FAY: ( lighting a cigarette ) No, I'm not alright! Your poem brought my period on a week and half early! So just shut up. Everybody just shut
HENRY: For is this not the best of all possible worlds? Are not the evils of this world necessary components of a cosmos that could not exist without them?
CHRIS: So, do you believe in God?
HENRY: ( smokes, shrugs ) ( lifting her head ) Yeah, but when were you in Paris?
FAY: ( lifting her head ) Yeah, but when were you in Paris?
HENRY: ( aggravated ) At. One. Time.
CHRIS: Simon, can I have your autograph?
HENRY: Go ahead. But never let yourself be
FAY: ( to Henry ) So what about this friend of yours, Hot Shot? The publisher.
HENRY: ( reminding him ) Angus James.
SIMON: ( reminding him ) Angus James.
FAY: Yeah. Angus James. How about sending this poem to him?
HENRY: Because it's not done yet.
FAY: ( to Simon ) When's it gunna be done, Simon?
SIMON: I don't know.
FAY: Well, you oughta be home writing instead of hanging out over here with all your groupies.
AMY: Hey, I'm not a groupie.
FAY: Pardon me, swivel-hips. Is that your Can I see it?
AMY: Can I see it?
FAY: Can I see it?
HENRY: ( continues ) The thing to do is to send parts of it to different magazines and literary journals first. That kinda thing. You know. Substantiate it.
AMY: ( looking up ) What's 'scatalogical' mean?
HENRY: Filth, child. A preoccupation with excrement. Why?
AMY: That's what the Board of Education called Simon's poem, yesterday;
EDNA: Yeah, I'm listening.
FAY: Yeah, I'm listening.
EDNA: My name is Edna Rodriguez and I write the human interest column for the Queens County Examiner and I was just wondering if I could have a word with Simon Grim? Thank you.
FAY: ( startled ) Thank you.
EDNA: ( startled ) Thank you.
FAY: You can't talk to him for, you know, too long or anything, 'cause he's gotta, you know. he writes all day. That's all he does. Can you believe that?
FAY: ( calling again ) Hey! Simon! Get down here!
FAY: Simon, this is Edna. She's from the Simon, the Parents' Association at the local high school are calling your poem pornography. The teachers are defending the students' right to exercise their critical tastes and sensibilities. The county agrees with the Church and considers the poem emblematic of modern society's moral disintegration. How do you feel about these controversial reactions to your poem?
EDNA: ( rapid fire ) Simon, the Parents' Association at the local high school are calling your poem pornography. The teachers are defending the students' right to exercise their critical tastes and sensibilities. The county agrees with the Church and considers the poem emblematic of modern society's moral disintegration. How do you feel about these controversial reactions to your poem?
FAY: ( punching him ) Simon, answer the woman.
MARY: I need my prescription filled.
FAY: Mom, this is Edna. Edna, Mom.
EDNA: Mrs Grim, what was Simon like as a We all thought he was retarded.
MARY: We all thought he was retarded.
FAY: Everyone did.
MARY: Never said a word.
FAY: He masturbated constantly.
MARY: Had no friends.
FAY: Till he met Henry.
MARY: And that's when all the trouble really
SIMON: ( reading ) Dear Mr Grim, we here at the magazine consider ourselves and the publication open-minded and cutting edge and have consistently printed the work of the most brilliant and farseeing young talent of the day. Every week we are forced to return writing which we can not for one reason or another publish and include a brief but polite refusal. But this tract you've sent us demands a response as violent as the effect your words have had upon us. Drop dead. Keep your day job. Sincerely, The Editors.
HENRY: De gustibus non disputandum est.
SIMON: ( thinking ) You can't argue with taste?
HENRY: About taste. You can't argue about taste. God, Simon.
SIMON: The other twenty-five are almost as bad. I don't know why I bother.
HENRY: What do you mean you don't know why you bother? You bother because you know the poem is excellent!
SIMON: Do I?
HENRY: Of course you do!
SIMON: I'm not so sure sometimes.
HENRY: Can you sit there, look me straight in the eye, and tell me you don't think this poem is great? That it is not at once a work of great lyrical beauty and ethical depth? That it is not a genuine, highly individual, and profound meditation on the miracle of existence?
SIMON: I, ah.
HENRY: Can you?
SIMON: No. I can't.
HENRY: So, you see, you have no choice!
SIMON: ( calling ) Can you recommend it to your friend, the publisher?
SIMON: Henry? Can you recommend the poem to
SIMON: I mean, I think it's finished and, for better or worse, it is book That might not be as easy as it seems.
HENRY: That might not be as easy as it seems.
SIMON: Well, it's been a long time. My name might not carry as much weight as it once did with Angus.
HENRY: Well, it's been a long time. My name might not carry as much weight as it once did with Angus.
SIMON: But he's your friend, right?
HENRY: We were close at one time.
SIMON: You said he respected your opinion.
HENRY: Look, Simon, opinions come and go.
HENRY: To be honest; my ideas, my writing, they haven't always been received well or even calmly. They're upsetting. I'm a controversial man.
HENRY: You see, what I'm doing is too radical. Too uncompromising. It'll take time for people to see its value. It's ahead of its time, perhaps, or maybe just. A recommendation from me might do you as much harm as it does good.
SIMON: Henry, why can't I read the Because certain work needs to be experienced all at once in order for one to appreciate the full force of its character.
HENRY: Because certain work needs to be experienced all at once in order for one to appreciate the full force of its character.
FAY: Simon, wake up! The guy's in a dream He's afraid that his reputation will prevent people from giving my work an honest chance.
SIMON: He's afraid that his reputation will prevent people from giving my work an honest chance.
FAY: His reputation as what?
SIMON: As a writer.
FAY: Gimme a break.
SIMON: He's kinda like in exile. Marginalized on account of his ideas.
FAY: If he's such a great big fat genius, why doesn't he write books? Like you He has. He's written a book. It's almost completed. He's been working on it for years. It's just not Yeah, I bet. It's probably disgusting.
SIMON: He has. He's written a book. It's almost completed. He's been working on it for years. It's just not Yeah, I bet. It's probably disgusting.
FAY: Yeah, I bet. It's probably disgusting.
SIMON: ( defensively ) It's a quite serious and difficult piece of work, apparently.
FAY: Have you read it?
SIMON: No. Not yet. Soon. Certain work needs to be experienced all at once in order for one to appreciate the full force of its character.
FAY: Yeah, well, what ever. Listen, Simon, forget Henry. Go straight up to this Angus James character yourself and make him read your poem.
FAY: I'm gunna apply for a job at the one- hour photo joint and then go over to the Mall to see about that job in the bank. Make sure Mom takes her pills. See ya.
SIMON: Please don't stop.
SIMON: That was nice what you were playing.
MARY: Yes, it was nice. But it was
SIMON: Does that matter?
MARY: ( looking right at him ) Yes. It does.
MARY: No answer. She steps over to the cabinet and almost takes down Simon's notebook. But doesn't. She grabs her pills and is about to take them. But then she stops. She puts them down and goes to the cabinet. She takes down Simon's notebooks and sits at the table, pauses, then pulls them closer and begins to read.
LAURA: Hi, I'll take that.
LAURA: Aren't you the messenger?
SIMON: Are you here to fix the plumbing?
LAURA: Are you here to fix the plumbing?
SIMON: I'm here to see Mr. Angus James.
LAURA: ( amused ) Are you?
SIMON: I'm not a plumber. Or a messenger. I was once a garbage man. But now I'm a poet.
BARRY: The book, as we know it, Angus, will be a thing of the past within the next few years. Novels, articles, newspapers will all be downloaded on to our personal computers anyway.
ANGUS: So you're telling me to get out of the publishing business?
STEVE: No. But we've got to re-invent the publishing business for the electronic
ANGUS: Yes, Laura?
LAURA: I'm sorry to disturb you, gentlemen, but. Angus, there's a particularly wound-up young garbage man out here who seems to have written a poem. A long poem. And I recall how, at last month's meeting, you stressed the need for us to be on the look-out for more marginalized verse from unestablished quarters of the American Did I say that?
ANGUS: Did I say that?
STEVE: Yeah. You did.
BARRY: Well, OK. Make an appointment, Laura. Sometime next month.
ANGUS: Well, OK. Make an appointment, Laura. Sometime next month.
LAURA: And she's gone.
ANGUS: ( returning ) So, anyway, how is the digital revolution going to help me sell
SIMON: Why can't I see him now?
LAURA: ( sincerely ) Because he's a very important man and, well, you're not.
LAURA: Be reasonable.
SIMON: INT. CONFERENCE ROOM DAY Same time.
ANGUS: I don't think people are going to prefer reading books on television, It won't be television!
STEVE: It won't be television!
BARRY: It'll be interactive.
STEVE: Angus, look, we have a number of charts here.
BARRY: In every home in America the PC will be where the TV used to be.
STEVE: And it'll be a direct connection to all forms of media.
BARRY: An unprecedented transformation of American social life.
STEVE: We'll all become better informed, more literate, increasingly productive, and. Well, and, like I said, we have a number of charts.
LAURA: Sorry to disturb you again, gentlemen, but. Angus, I'd like to call security for this one. Though, before I do, I just wanted to ask just how marginal the as yet undiscovered voice of American poetry should be?
ANGUS: ( thinking ) Pretty damn marginal, I'd think.
BARRY: Down right controversial, probably.
ANGUS: How's he strike you?
LAURA: He's been denounced by his local Board of Education.
BARRY: Oh, I read about him in the paper. Hangs out in a delicatessen somewhere and writes pornography.
ANGUS: Hello, and why do you think I should take valuable time out of my busy schedule to read.
ANGUS: Simon is stumped. He looks over at Laura, who purses her lips and tilts her head. He twists a button on his shirt, thinking, then returns to Angus.
SIMON: Because it's a masterpiece.
ANGUS: ( to Laura ) Are you hearing this?
SIMON: ( to Laura ) Are you hearing this?
ANGUS: ( to Laura ) Are you hearing this?
LAURA: He's adorable.
SIMON: I wouldn't want to waste your time.
ANGUS: I'm sure you wouldn't and I appreciate you being so straightforward.
SIMON: Thank you.
ANGUS: I assume you can take straightforward
LAURA: Just say 'Yes'.
SIMON: ( looking back ) Get him a coffee, Laura.
ANGUS: Get him a coffee, Laura.
LAURA: Have a seat, Mr Grim.
ANGUS: Hold my calls for the next half hour.
LAURA: What about Steve?
ANGUS: He doesn't drink coffee. Steve, do you drink coffee?
STEVE: ( off ) Angus, listen to me!
HENRY: In the infinite amplitude of his love, God wants to create the largest number of best elements that can exist together in one cosmos. OK.
HENRY: In an instantaneous calculation made in eternity, God computes the best possible world and creates it. Fine. This 'decision' by God is uncontingent and eternal rather than temporally or ontologically sequential.
AMY: How do you spell that?
HENRY: O-N-T. Don't you have some kinda spell-check on that thing?
AMY: O-N-T. Don't you have some kinda spell-check on that thing?
HENRY: O-N-T. Don't you have some kinda spell-check on that thing?
AMY: Never mind.
HENRY: It is impossible for every perfect good to be compatible with every other perfect good. The intense beauty of the mountain must be set off by the fertility of the plain, so to
HENRY: The good of freewill must entail real choices for sin.
HENRY: Listen, Amy, back off. I'm on parole.
AMY: You feel the same way. I can tell. I can see it when you look at me.
HENRY: Hey! I don't look at you.
AMY: Yes you do. In the street. In the parking lot yesterday. That night on the highway.
HENRY: I look at a lot of people that way.
AMY: You think I'm stupid.
HENRY: No, as a matter of fact, I think you're a real bright kid and I like that about you.
AMY: ( looks up, pouts ) You do?
HENRY: I like it so much I've got half a mind to do perverse things to you. Right here. Right now. Things you might just learn to like.
ANGUS: This is really quite unbelievably bad, my friend. I mean, I'm all for experimentation and I've made a career out of a healthy disregard for convention, but. Look, this is profoundly irrelevant material. This is only my opinion. But it's an opinion I value highly. Goodnight, Laura. Call Norton Press. We're still on for tomorrow.
ANGUS: I've been wrong before as a publisher. But I refuse to admit I've ever been wrong as a reader. You have talent, I admit. You have an innate sense of the musicality of language. A good ear, maybe. But you do nothing significant with it. And this twisted reasoning that poses as. conviction or insight, it's. well, it's Why did you bring this thing to me, A friend of mine spoke of you. He said you had a lot of integrity.
ANGUS: Why did you bring this thing to me, A friend of mine spoke of you. He said you had a lot of integrity.
SIMON: ( weakly ) A friend of mine spoke of you. He said you had a lot of integrity.
ANGUS: Yes, well, of course, I do. But I'm not crazy, am I? Who is this person? Do I know him?
SIMON: Henry Fool.
ANGUS: Never heard of him.
LAURA: ( off ) I remember Henry.
LAURA: He used to be the janitor here.
MR DENG: ( off ) Henry, put those magazines back.
HENRY: I'm just looking at the pictures.
MR DENG: It's not good for you.
HENRY: I learn so much from these magazines, Mr Deng. I refuse to discriminate between modes of knowing.
MR DENG: And you can't smoke in here anymore.
HENRY: Why not!
MR DENG: It's the law.
HENRY: This place is losing all its charm, Mr Deng.
MR DENG: Business is good. The kids, they hang out all day and drink coffee, talk about art and read poetry.
HENRY: It's just a fad, Mr Deng. These kids today, they're just slaves to fashion.
FAY: Anybody home? Mom? Ma, that you?
FAY: Ma, that you?
HENRY: Come on, Mr Deng! How much do I owe Twenty-five dollars.
MR DENG: Twenty-five dollars.
HENRY: That can't be right! And so what? My credit's good.
WARREN: Hey, Warren, you gotta couple of bucks I can borrow?
HENRY: Hey, Warren, you gotta couple of bucks I can borrow?
WARREN: Listen, Henry, I wanna remind you to vote this Thursday.
HENRY: Ah, yes, of course. When noble minds shrink from the task of leadership scoundrels will rush in to fill the It's every American's right. A blessing. Yet another opportunity to save America from itself.
WARREN: It's every American's right. A blessing. Yet another opportunity to save America from itself.
FAY: Hey, Henry, you in there? Gimme a
FAY: She goes quietly in.
AMY: Henry smokes.
HENRY: What kind of. Well, I mean. What kind of. perverse things would you do to me?
AMY: What kind of. Well, I mean. What kind of. perverse things would you do to me?
HENRY: Take a powder, cupcake.
AMY: No, really.
HENRY: Crushed, she breaks out in tears and flees.
FATHER HAWKES: Let us pray. Lord, grant that peace be within reach for our friend, Mary. May the pain and confusion she endured on earth be fought through in the after life, so that she may enter the Kingdom of Heaven and live in the light of God. Amen.
HENRY: So I was a janitor! So what?
SIMON: But Angus James said he didn't even know you!
HENRY: Well, I mean, we weren't like bosom buddies or anything. But we used to talk sometimes. In the elevator. In the morning. He said he liked my ideas. Being a janitor's a good job if you're a writer. Especially the night shift; all that time to think and develop my ideas.
SIMON: Do it.
SIMON: Anyway, he hated my poem.
HENRY: Well, what the hell does he know? He wouldn't know a vital piece of literary art if it came up and bit him in the leg. To hell with him! He's not the only publisher in the But nobody likes it.
SIMON: But nobody likes it.
HENRY: ( smokes ) It's true. A prophet is seldom heeded in his own land. Remember that.
SIMON: Do it.
HENRY: Hey, look, treasure!
HENRY: What is this?
SIMON: Brass maybe. Some kinda copper.
HENRY: It's a ring. Jewelry.
SIMON: I think it's a gasket. A fitting from off of that old refrigerator over there.
HENRY: Hey, Warren, I found Pearl wandering around by the garbage dump.
WARREN: He lost.
HENRY: Who lost?
WARREN: Congressman Feer.
HENRY: ( realizing ) Oh. Well, you know. Somebody's gotta What's the fucking use. You make sacrifices. You try to be a decent human being. Try to contribute something meaningful to society. And what happens? They lose to a bunch of cultural elite liberal fuck-ups. I don't give a shit anymore. People deserve what they get.
WARREN: What's the fucking use. You make sacrifices. You try to be a decent human being. Try to contribute something meaningful to society. And what happens? They lose to a bunch of cultural elite liberal fuck-ups. I don't give a shit anymore. People deserve what they get.
HENRY: No answer. He comes in and finds her sitting on the couch with a drink. She's got a black eye.
HENRY: What happened to you?
VICKY: He's a good man, Henry. Nobody's I guess not.
HENRY: I guess not.
VICKY: He's terribly disappointed.
HENRY: I found Pearl wandering around with no shoes on her feet.
VICKY: Thanks. She gets scared.
HENRY: And you don't? I love him.
VICKY: I love him.
HENRY: ( alarmed ) Where's the beer?
MR DENG: No more beer. Coffee. Espresso! Cappuccino! Café au lait. Carrot juice. Herbal tea.
HENRY: A double espresso and a jelly donut, You mind paying? My credit's no good here anymore, apparently.
BUÑUEL: ( nods amiably ) Did you go to the employment agency today, Henry?
HENRY: No, but it's OK. Simon's gunna try to get me a job on the garbage truck.
BUÑUEL: Listen, I'm a little concerned about your friend.
HENRY: Seems he gave an obscene note to a girl in the library.
BUÑUEL: Seems he gave an obscene note to a girl in the library.
HENRY: Get outta here! When?
BUÑUEL: I'm not sure.
HENRY: It couldn't have been Simon.
BUÑUEL: It almost certainly is. He mentions you. Look.
HENRY: 'Her figure makes me violent. I want to somehow break her. But tenderly. How is this possible? Ask Henry.'
HENRY: Buñuel, this is obviously a love We've had complaints.
BUÑUEL: ( taking it back ) We've had complaints.
HENRY: Where did you get it?
BUÑUEL: She posted it on the Internet.
HENRY: Oh, the slut!
BUÑUEL: She was trying to warn other girls about a potential rapist.
HENRY: ( smokes ) Is all this true about the Internet? About how you can get pornography on Well, yeah, sure. It's a big problem. You can send dirty pictures and On the Internet?
BUÑUEL: Well, yeah, sure. It's a big problem. You can send dirty pictures and On the Internet?
HENRY: On the Internet?
BUÑUEL: Henry is impressed.
HENRY: No kiddin'?
BUÑUEL: See you on Thursday, Henry.
HENRY: ( thinking ) Sure. See you. ( calls the waitress ) Gnoc, gimme one of these double espressos to go, will ya?
HENRY: Hello, Fay.
FAY: Go away.
HENRY: You gotta get outta the house, Fay. You can't blame yourself for not being here. You did all you could for her.
FAY: Is there something you want?
HENRY: You got the Internet on that Yeah. So what? Look Fay, about, you know, between us what happened.
FAY: ( resumes typing ) Yeah. So what? Look Fay, about, you know, between us what happened.
HENRY: Look Fay, about, you know, between us what happened.
FAY: I don't wanna talk about it, Henry!
HENRY: Type a part of Simon's poem onto the Go ahead.
FAY: ( stops ) Go ahead.
HENRY: Go ahead.
FAY: Why not?
HENRY: Why not?
FAY: Come on, Fay. It's a great idea.
HENRY: Come on, Fay. It's a great idea.
FAY: I don't know if he would want us to do that.
HENRY: Sure he would. Just the first ten
FAY: I don't know.
HENRY: He'll thank you for it later.
FAY: But he's gone. It's as if he has vanished into thin air. She sighs, sits back down, and begins typing the poem onto the INT. WORLD OF DONUTS DAY Moments later. Henry comes back into the store, satisfied with himself. He finishes off his coffee, tosses away the cup and takes a pornographic magazine from the rack. He leans on the counter where Mr Deng is busy working and flips through the pages.
HENRY: Gimme another one of those tall double espressos, Mr Deng.
MR DENG: You gunna buy that?
HENRY: I'm just looking.
MR DENG: Well then put it back.
HENRY: There's this fascinating story about a famous rock band and how they tied a friend of theirs to a bed in their hotel room and inserted a live fish into her vagina.
HENRY: ( explains ) They say she had numerous orgasms.
MR DENG: Henry, you need to do something with your life. Get a job, or something.
HENRY: I mean, it wasn't the entire fish, it was just, you know, the nose. The nose of the fish.
HENRY: You don't find that interesting?
MR DENG: Henry closes the magazine and puts it back. Leaning on the counter, he sips his coffee and ponders.
HENRY: You ever wonder what it would be like to have sex with an animal, Mr That coffee is free. Just take it and get out of here.
MR DENG: That coffee is free. Just take it and get out of here.
HENRY: I mean, some dogs are almost as big as people and often more attractive.
SIMON: Did you see him?
FAY: He came by this afternoon.
SIMON: Did you talk?
FAY: He comes over and sits beside her. He thinks a moment, then.
SIMON: You've got to tell him, Fay.
FAY: He thinks I'm a slut.
SIMON: Simon, I don't feel so good.
HENRY: Simon, I don't feel so good.
SIMON: What's wrong?
HENRY: I feel all kinda clammy. And damp.
SIMON: How many of these did you have?
HENRY: Simon puts the container down and sits at the table.
SIMON: Henry, we have to talk.
HENRY: Can I use your toilet?
SIMON: Fay's taking a shower.
HENRY: How much you think I can get for
SIMON: ( pauses ) Henry, Fay's pregnant.
SIMON: Fay's pregnant with your child.
FAY: Jesus, Henry!
FAY: Hey, Henry. You OK?
FAY: Oh. Oh, Henry.
FATHER HAWKES: I, Henry, take you, Fay to be my I, Henry, take you, Fay to be my And do promise before God and these And do promise before God and these To be your loving and faithful To be your loving and faithful In plenty and in want.
HENRY: I, Henry, take you, Fay to be my And do promise before God and these And do promise before God and these To be your loving and faithful To be your loving and faithful In plenty and in want.
FATHER HAWKES: And do promise before God and these And do promise before God and these To be your loving and faithful To be your loving and faithful In plenty and in want.
HENRY: And do promise before God and these To be your loving and faithful To be your loving and faithful In plenty and in want.
FATHER HAWKES: To be your loving and faithful To be your loving and faithful In plenty and in want.
HENRY: To be your loving and faithful In plenty and in want.
FATHER HAWKES: In plenty and in want.
HENRY: In plenty and in want.
FATHER HAWKES: In joy and in sorrow.
HENRY: In joy and in sorrow.
FATHER HAWKES: In sickness and in health.
HENRY: In sickness and in health.
FATHER HAWKES: For as long as we both shall live.
HENRY: For as long as we both shall live.
FATHER HAWKES: Bless, O Lord, this ring, that he who gives it and she who wears it may abide in your peace and continue in your favor until their life's
FATHER HAWKES: Whom God has joined, let no man
HENRY: Oh, shit.
FAY: Simon, do something.
AMY: He studies the fax and recognizes his poem. He grows
SIMON: Where did you get this?
AMY: It's all over the Internet.
AMY: They're even talking about it on the TV news.
FAY: Amy hurries along beside him.
AMY: There's a guy from the radio station over at World of Donuts and a story in the newspaper about some kids burning down a school near Boston!
REPORTER: ( on TV ) It all started right here in Queens, Jim, at World of Donuts about one year ago today, when local garbage man, Simon Grim, put pencil to paper and began to compose what many have come to regard as vicious, antisocial and pornographic poetry 112 lines of unrhymed free meter verse which would one day serve to spark the flames of controversy across the nation and indeed the world.
OWEN FEER: ( on TV ) This is outrageous! Measures must be taken. Have we debased our culture to such an extent that a garbage man with a head full of sick ideas is legitimately referred to as a poet, and where the filth he spews can be accessed by any child old enough to turn on a computer? Is this what we have come to? Not the transmission of our highest ideals, but a cynical, atheistic delirium!
POET LAUREATE: ( on TV ) Poetry of this kind, and this poem in particular, is, I think, a worthy form of desperation; a digression on the extremes of human experience; of solitude, of community. It is perhaps alarming, even upsetting to some myself included but it must be allowed to exist. ( on TV ) Meanwhile, in Rome today, the Pope issued a message of hope for believers in their fight against what he termed the godless and lost. He did not mention Simon Grim by name, but offered a prayer for the young whom he described as sadly in need of faith and not the illusion of conviction offered by rock music, drugs and contemporary poetry.
ANCHORMAN: ( on TV ) Meanwhile, in Rome today, the Pope issued a message of hope for believers in their fight against what he termed the godless and lost. He did not mention Simon Grim by name, but offered a prayer for the young whom he described as sadly in need of faith and not the illusion of conviction offered by rock music, drugs and contemporary poetry.
FAY: God, Simon, I mean, like, you're a total fucking rock star.
ANGUS: I'm willing to negotiate, Simon.
SIMON: I know, it's just.
ANGUS: You've had other offers.
SIMON: Well, yes. But.
ANGUS: Why have you reconsidered?
SIMON: Why have you reconsidered?
ANGUS: Because I think your writing will be tremendously successful.
SIMON: But you don't like it?
ANGUS: It's growing on me.
SIMON: What made you change your mind?
ANGUS: Other people's responses. I don't live in a vacuum, you know. Two months ago I didn't have the proof of your poem's appeal. Now I do.
ANGUS: Consider my offer carefully. Get some professional advice. I'll call you tomorrow.
FATHER HAWKES: What were the terms?
SIMON: A hundred thousand in cash up front.
FATHER HAWKES: A seventy/thirty split.
SIMON: A seventy/thirty split.
FATHER HAWKES: Well, that could be better. But it is a hundred thousand dollars up front. Guaranteed money. You could use that.
SIMON: So it's a good deal?
FATHER HAWKES: Of course it's good.
SIMON: So I should take it?
FATHER HAWKES: No. Try to get him up to a hundred and fifty thousand.
HENRY: I've let myself down, Simon! I've let myself be caught in the bloody maw of banal necessity! How did I get here? How did this happen to me? I'm going to be somebody's father! I need time to think. To write. Time to finish my 'Confession'! I can't work for a living! It's impossible! I tried once. My genius will be wasted trying to make ends meet!
HENRY: This is how great men topple, Simon. Their hearts are in the right place too much of the time! They get sidetracked! Distracted. Oh! How could I have been so careless!
SIMON: Henry, please, let me read the No. Not now. It's not done. I'm all washed up. I'm finished!
HENRY: No. Not now. It's not done. I'm all washed up. I'm finished!
SIMON: Angus James is convinced my poem is going to make him incredibly wealthy. He'll read your book and seriously consider publishing it. If I ask him to. I'm certain.
HENRY: Really? You really think so?
SIMON: I'll insist he publish the Or I won't let him publish my poem. You'd do that? You'd do that for me?
SIMON: ( adds ) Or I won't let him publish my poem. You'd do that? You'd do that for me?
HENRY: You'd do that? You'd do that for me?
SIMON: You saved my life.
HENRY: Do you realize what you're saying?
SIMON: ( pausing ) I owe you everything.
HENRY: Simon smiles. Henry smiles. They shake hands.
FAY: It's really that bad?
SIMON: It's terrible.
ANGUS: You've read this?
SIMON: And you want me to consider publishing As part of our deal?
ANGUS: And you want me to consider publishing As part of our deal?
SIMON: As part of our deal?
ANGUS: As part of our deal?
SIMON: Simon, this book, it's. It's really quite bad.
ANGUS: Simon, this book, it's. It's really quite bad.
SIMON: That's what you said about my poem.
ANGUS: I'm offering you a very real expression of my faith in your writing. Two hundred thousand dollars and a sixty/forty split.
SIMON: But just exactly what is the nature of your faith in my writing?
ANGUS: Look, Simon, you don't require my admiration. You require my experience as a publisher. And that experience leads me to believe your poem will make more money than any book of poetry ever published. In history. Virtually make you a household name within two years. You'll never have to work on a garbage truck again, I assure you. Or do anything else for that matter. Whereas this 'Confession' by Henry Fool.
ANGUS: The most I can say for this is. The man is a scoundrel.
SIMON: He taught me everything I know.
ANGUS: No! He encouraged all that was expressive in you to become manifest. He inspired you to act. He influenced your perception.
SIMON: How about if my advance is only a hundred thousand?
ANGUS: It's not about money, Simon.
SIMON: We could split the royalties I will not publish Henry Fool's
ANGUS: I will not publish Henry Fool's
ANGUS: Will you sign the contract?
HENRY: Simon? You're here.
SIMON: What happened?
HENRY: ( coughs ) It's a boy.
SIMON: And Fay?
HENRY: She's alright.
HENRY: They look around, seasoned conspirators and make sure the coast is clear. Then they pop open the beers and toast. They drink. Then.
HENRY: How did it go?
SIMON: Listen, Henry, Angus James didn't like your 'Confession'.
HENRY: Ah. I see. Well, what now?
SIMON: What do you mean?
HENRY: Did he suggest changes?
SIMON: No. He didn't.
HENRY: I mean, after all, there are things I can do to make it more accessible.
SIMON: I can soften up some of the language and make it read easier. Take out some of the more intratextual references and popularize the underlying Sturm und Drang, so to speak. I can change its mode. Make it more of a conventional novel No. Don't.
HENRY: I can soften up some of the language and make it read easier. Take out some of the more intratextual references and popularize the underlying Sturm und Drang, so to speak. I can change its mode. Make it more of a conventional novel No. Don't.
SIMON: No. Don't.
HENRY: ( laughing ) Oh, Simon, don't be such a purist! I appreciate your protectiveness, but the integrity of the work gives it a durability that can sustain such
SIMON: No. Really, Henry. Don't.
HENRY: What are you saying; that it doesn't merit revision?
SIMON: I'm saying. Angus James didn't like it.
HENRY: Well, did you tell him what you think?
SIMON: What I think doesn't matter.
HENRY: Yes, it does. You've got to use your influence with him.
SIMON: I gave it to him to read and he hated it. What more can I do?
HENRY: You can refuse to let him publish your poem.
SIMON: I can't do that.
HENRY: You said you would.
SIMON: That was before I read your book.
HENRY: ( hit hard ) ( looking up at him ) I signed the contract, Henry.
SIMON: ( looking up at him ) I signed the contract, Henry.
SIMON: Look, Henry, what did you expect?
HENRY: I. I don't know. Honesty, perhaps.
SIMON: ( indignantly ) Look, if I had told you, when at first I read it, that I thought it was no good, what would you have I would have respected your opinion.
HENRY: I would have respected your opinion.
SIMON: And insisted that there's no accounting for taste.
HENRY: Well, is there?
SIMON: I don't know. I didn't bring it to Angus because I thought it was good. I brought it to Angus because you're my friend.
HENRY: ( staggered ) Oh how perfectly enormous of you, ( explodes ) Look, Henry, I did it! I wrote. I wrote poetry because you told me to! I worked! I worked while you sat back and comfortably dismissed the outside world as too shallow, stupid and mean to appreciate your ideas.
SIMON: ( explodes ) Look, Henry, I did it! I wrote. I wrote poetry because you told me to! I worked! I worked while you sat back and comfortably dismissed the outside world as too shallow, stupid and mean to appreciate your ideas.
HENRY: Is that such a priority? Is that some sort of measure of a man's worth? To drag what's best in him out into the street so every average slob with some pretense to taste can poke it with a stick?
SIMON: ( sits, tired ) Maybe. Maybe it is.
HENRY: You must be pretty impressed with yourself, huh? The all too obviously talented new man, the important new voice, the early clue to a new direction, or whatever, etc., etc., etc! A popular new trend conveniently packaged for the distracted young herd! You want to be liked more than you know, Simon Grim! You'd be nowhere without me and you know it.
SIMON: I'm leaving. Yes. It's time you left.
HENRY: Yes. It's time you left.
HENRY: I saw you for what you were in the beginning, Simon. I hold no grudge and I'm certain you will, in time, leave some serious and small dent in this world.
SIMON: ( weakly ) The world is full of shit.
HENRY: The world is full of shit. It's true. And you have to walk through it. That's your part. I'm sorry. But you're no good at it. Perhaps I'm not. Perhaps I wasn't made to walk through shit. Go on now. Leave. Do what you're good at. Go.
FAY: The kid sits still, obviously guilty of some unspeakable mischief, as Fay storms back into the house. He looks around, bored, then brightens up when he sees. Henry, coming up the street, hanging from the back of a garbage truck.
PATTY: Henry, what did I tell you about bringing the kid in here!
HENRY: Say hello to Patty, Ned.
NED: She suddenly becomes all soft and cuddly.
PATTY: How you doin', sweetie? You wanna
HENRY: So what did you learn at school today, Ned? Anything?
HENRY: Here, I'll teach you something.
HENRY: Horrible, isn't it?
NED: It burns.
HENRY: See. That'll teach ya. Here, sip
FAY: She comes out to the street and looks around.
FAY: EXT. VICKY'S HOUSE DAY Fay comes up looking for Ned and sees. Pearl, age fourteen, come out of Vicky's House. She is fourteen years old now. Warren steps out the door and grabs her by the arm. She shakes him off. He slaps her. She runs down the steps and glares back at him.
WARREN: ( pointing at her ) I'm warning you, Pearl!
HENRY: That's it. That's it. Perfect!
BILL: Hey, Fool, it's about your friend what's his name. Your brother-in-
HENRY: What about him?
BILL: ( reading ) The controversial and reclusive American poet Simon Grim has been awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature. The Swedish Academy, who will confer the award late next week, praised Mr Grim for works of great and difficult striving, for the rendering of the desperate, the ugly and the mundane in a language packed with our shared human frailties.
HENRY: God, they must be hard up for geniuses to pin medals on because, listen, I gotta tell you, when I first met this guy he didn't even know what an iambic pentameter was.
BILL: He's a fraud.
HENRY: Keep a lid on it, Bill, you're outta your league.
BILL: Stir things up so as to stay in the newspapers. That's his racket.
HENRY: He's a great American poet, you dumb Poet, my ass! I could puke all over a piece a loose leaf and be more profound than he is!
BILL: Poet, my ass! I could puke all over a piece a loose leaf and be more profound than he is!
HENRY: Come over here and say that and I'll cripple ya in three different ways, you boozed-up Philistine!
FAY: Henry and Ned crouch and quiver caught. Fay strides up to the bar and grabs the kid.
FAY: Listen, you degenerate, I've had about enough of this! Ned, have you been drinking?
HENRY: ( explains ) His throat hurt from smoking.
FAY: Henry, don't come home tonight! I'm warning you! Don't come home at all!
HENRY: Who's winning?
MR DENG: Henry gestures to World of Donuts.
HENRY: What's going on in there?
MR DENG: We gotta have rock 'n' roll shows these days, Henry. The poetry readings just don't pay the bills no more.
HENRY: What did I tell you! It was just a fad. I told you that! I told everyone!
MR DENG: Did you hear about Simon? It was on the news today.
HENRY: Yeah yeah yeah. So what? A Nobel Prize. Anybody can get one of them these days. That's the problem, with this world, Mr Deng. Nobody's got any standards anymore. You seen Fay?
MR DENG: You better sleep in my office tonight, Henry. She was very angry. You've gotta let her cool off.
HENRY: I can't sleep in there with that Suit yourself.
MR DENG: Suit yourself.
HENRY: What are you doing here, Pearl?
PEARL: You want some?
HENRY: ( pauses ) Some what?
HENRY: Pearl laughs and falls back onto the couch, her sweater hanging off her shoulder and her skirt hiked up and displaying her underwear. Henry stands and searches for something to sit on.
PEARL: Come sit here.
PEARL: That's what my dad always says.
HENRY: ( dead ) 'You want some?'
PEARL: ( dead ) 'You want some?'
PEARL: People say you were once in jail for having sex with a girl my age.
HENRY: That was a long time ago.
PEARL: You want some?
HENRY: You oughta get outta here, Pearl.
PEARL: I was here first.
HENRY: Go home.
PEARL: You go home.
HENRY: And he starts to leave. But Pearl sits up.
PEARL: ( scared )
PEARL: ( hanging her head ) I can't go home.
HENRY: ( concerned ) Why not?
PEARL: He beat her up again.
HENRY: Warren beat up your mom?
HENRY: Is she alright?
PEARL: ( sadly ) Do you think I'm pretty?
HENRY: Does she need help?
PEARL: I'll suck your cock if you kill him for me.
HENRY: Vicky! Vicky, it's Henry from across the street! Vicky!
HENRY: ( taken back ) ( standing ) What do you think you're doing, you ( off )
VICKY: ( standing ) What do you think you're doing, you ( off )
WARREN: ( off )
HENRY: ( to Vicky ) It's about Pearl.
VICKY: Mind your own business, Henry.
WARREN: ( shoves him ) Yeah, who the hell do you think you are, anyway?
WARREN: Warren is stabbed in the heart. Henry can't believe it. Warren can't believe it. He stands there in the middle of the kitchen, amazed, with the screwdriver sticking out of his chest. Henry, semi-conscious and severely beaten, falls against the back door and coughs up a few of his teeth. Vicky steps into the hall from her room and shudders. Warren sits at the table, stunned. He looks from the screwdriver to Vicky, then.
WARREN: He falls to the floor.
LAWYER: ( off ) It is true your husband served seven years in prison for statutory rape.
FAY: Yes. It is.
LAWYER: And when was that?
FAY: That was. I dunno. Fifteen. Sixteen years ago.
LAWYER: And when were you married?
FAY: We were married seven years ago.
LAWYER: Were you aware at all of the victim's relationship with his daughter?
FAY: Pardon me?
LAWYER: The girl, the daughter, Pearl. She had been having sexual relations with her father.
FAY: I didn't know that. No.
LAWYER: Pearl claims she offered your husband sexual favors if he would kill her
LAWYER: I'm just repeating what she said, Mrs Fool. The victim's wife, Vicky, claims your husband broke into the house and forcefully entered her
LAWYER: Fay, I know this isn't easy. But we need your help here. The girl claims she asked your husband to kill her father in exchange for, well, I guess the promise of sexual relations with
NED: Where's Dad?
FAY: Where's Dad?
NED: Where's Dad?
FAY: I don't know, honey. Leave me alone a minute, I gotta think.
NED: Is Dad in trouble?
FAY: Is Dad in trouble?
NED: Is Dad in trouble?
FAY: Yes, Ned, he is. He's in big trouble. Now just be quiet for two minutes.
NED: I'm warning you, Ned.
FAY: I'm warning you, Ned.
NED: Mom, can I be a mailman when I grow
FAY: Sure you can, honey. You can be anything you want.
CONCIERGE: Yeah, what do you want?
NED: My uncle.
CONCIERGE: What's his name?
NED: Simon Grim.
CONCIERGE: There ain't no one here by that name.
NED: Room 423.
CONCIERGE: This is post marked five years ago.
CONCIERGE: What does he look like?
NED: ( hopeless ) I don't know.
CONCIERGE: Sorry, kid. Can't help ya.
CONCIERGE: ( jumping up )
SIMON: Get up off your knees.
LAURA: Promise me you'll be on that plane at seven, Simon.
SIMON: I'll see you in Stockholm.
HENRY: Look, Simon, the world's a scary place. I admit it. But it's not my fault. I swear!
SIMON: I'm sorry, Henry.
HENRY: Don't be. You had things to do.
SIMON: So did you.
HENRY: Gotta light?
HENRY: Take care of your mom and don't start trouble you can't finish.
HENRY: I love you, Fay.
FAY: ( rolls her eyes ) Yeah, well, tough.
HENRY: AIRLINE TICKET CLERK
HENRY: Yeah, well. Look, thanks, but..
SIMON: ( shoves him ) Go on.
AIRLINE REP: Mr Grim, please, the plane is waiting! We have to hurry!
AIRLINE REP: This way, Mr Grim! This way!
SIMON: ( unheard )
THE END: Writers : Hal Hartley
