HESHER: Written by
TJ: This car has to go back.
TJ: This car has to go back to where it came from. Put it back on the truck.
TJ: Stop unhooking it. There's been a TOW TRUCK DRIVER I was told to bring it here. That's what it says on my work order. Talk to that guy if you've got a problem. The driver nods in the direction of LARRY TOWERS, who is approaching with 17 year-old DUSTIN HOWARD and another man, TONY, in dirty overalls.
LARRY: ( to tow truck driver ) Hey, Bill. Larry shakes the tow truck driver's hand.
TJ: This car has to go back where it came I beg your pardon?
LARRY: I beg your pardon?
TJ: It was brought here by mistake. Larry smiles at the little out-of-breath kid.
LARRY: And where was it supposed to go?
TJ: It wasn't supposed to go anywhere. It needs to go back where it came from. The guy who sold it to you made a What's the deal with this car again, Tony flips through a stack of papers he's holding.
LARRY: ( TO TONY )
TONY: Ah let's see, we bought this car yesterday afternoon from a Paul Forney-
TJ: That's my dad. It wasn't his to sell.
LARRY: Well, it's his name on the pink slip, son. And that means it's his to sell if he wants.
TJ: Yeah, but I'm just telling you it was a mistake, OK, so it needs to go back where it came from.
LARRY: Thanks, Bill.
DUSTIN: Come on dude, get out of the car. TJ turns the key and begins winding the window up. Dustin reaches in trying to unlock the door.
LARRY: I'd get out of here kid, before he works himself loose. TJ's not getting the car back. The men continue laughing at the trapped Dustin. TJ picks up his bike and rides away defeated.
GRANDMA: There's still plenty of applesauce I don't get why what I think doesn't It couldn't stay in the front of the house anymore, TJ. I'm not having this conversation again.
TJ: ( TO DAD )
DAD: It couldn't stay in the front of the house anymore, TJ. I'm not having this conversation again.
TJ: Yeah, why not?
DAD: It's there everyday and I have to look at it.
TJ: When do you look at it? When was the last time you got off the couch?
DAD: It's not healthy.
TJ: Neither are all the pills you're taking, but I don't tell you not to take them.
DAD: I don't wanna talk about it anymore.
TJ: I do.
DAD: I don't. And that's it. TJ fumes. They eat in silence a bit more. TJ drops his fork and leaves the table, angry.
GRANDMA: It's OK dear. He just needs time. It's his first day back tomorrow. Lets try and be patient. Dad is a mess.
DAD: Yeah, I know, mom. Grandma nods quietly.
TJ: Can I have some money so I can buy lunch today?
DAD: Dad sits up on the couch, he looks a total mess. Dad pick up his wallet from the mess of a coffee table and hands TJ a few TJ exits, leaving Dad sitting there. Dad sets his wallet back down and stares blankly into the room. We hear the door slam in the background.
HESHER: The fuck you think you're doing!? Before TJ can back away Hesher grabs him by the back of his T- shirt and drags him kicking and squealing towards the house.
HESHER: The fuck you think you're doing!?
TJ: You got five seconds or I'm gonna cut your fuckin' nose off.
HESHER: You got five seconds or I'm gonna cut your fuckin' nose off.
TJ: I was just, I was just going to school. I, I didn't know anyone was Hesher stares intimidatingly at TJ. TJ looks seriously scared.
HESHER: Bullshit. You're gonna fuckin' - Hesher is suddenly startled. His ears prick up like a rabbit. He hits the deck dragging TJ down with him. Their faces are close together. Hesher makes a very serious finger-to-mouth gesture to The SOUND of a car idling outside. Hesher listens. TJ is on his stomach, freaked. TJ looks around the room - a duffel bag, some beer cans, a few porn magazines, a weathered bass guitar and a sleeping bag. A car door closes loudly. Hesher peers through the window and sees a SECURITY GUARD inspecting TJ's bike in the front yard and then making his way toward the house. Hesher looks at TJ with serious and considered venom.
KID 1: Hey, TJ. You're back. Welcome back. Another kid comes over, eating a bagel.
KID 2: Hey, Teej. Welcome back, man. TJ nods, despondent, putting books into his backpack.
TJ: ( UNENTHUSIASTIC ) KID 2 KID 1
KID 2: I came by your house a while ago, see if you wanted to come skateboarding or something, but it looked like the place was empty. Have you moved or Yeah, I tried calling you a bunch of times, but it kept saying there was a new number or something.
KID 1: Yeah, I tried calling you a bunch of times, but it kept saying there was a new number or something.
TJ: Yeah, we moved in with my Grandma for a little while.
KID 1: Oh OK, cool. I didn't want to call cause I didn't know. ( changing the subject ) You want some of my bagel?
TJ: No. Thanks. Awkward beat. TJ doesn't want to make chit-chat. People are already making him feel weird.
KID 1: Hey, can I be the first one to sign your cast?
TJ: Ah, if you want I guess, but I'm getting it off tomorrow, so there's no point really.
KID 1: OK, cool. Well, welcome back, man.
KID 2: Yeah, welcome back, dude. The kids steps away, feeling awkward.
MRS ELSBERRY: Cerisola? Cimino? Cody? Cooper? Early? Edgerton? Fletcher?
COACH: McDonald? Mohajer? Nanden? Paonessa? Saunders? Sumner? TJ is in gym class, another roll call. TJ looks up. He notices a guy high up in the bleachers smoking a cigarette and staring at him through long hair. TJ looks concerned. Is this Hesher, the guy with the garden INT. FAIR OAKS HIGH SCHOOL / HALL - DAY TJ is walking down the hall. He looks over and sees Hesher who's wearing a Misfits "Skull" T-shirt, watching him through the Suddenly TJ is grabbed and slammed against a locker. It's Dustin Howard and his posse. Dustin towers over him.
DUSTIN: S'up now, punk? You don't look so tough now, do you?
TJ: Leave me alone.
DUSTIN: How about you suck my cock? Dustin slams him again. TJ stays put.
TJ: Yeah, yeah, I heard you. Suck your cock. Then why don't you pull it out?
DUSTIN: What'd you say, bitch? TJ tries to walk away. Dustin grabs him and throws him down.
KIDS: Fight, fight, fight.
COUNSELLOR: Look, TJ. I know you've been through a lot and it's gonna take time to readjust, but as you know, the school can't tolerate this kind of behavior.
TJ: I didn't start anything. He pushed me.
COUNSELLOR: What he did or didn't do isn't important. What's important is what you do, and how you react. Do you Not really.
TJ: Not really.
COUNSELLOR: Which part don't you understand?
TJ: I don't understand the part about how it's not important that he pushed me and he punched me and he kicked me and he told me to suck his cock and now I'm the bad guy sitting in the office. The counsellor cuts him off.
COUNSELLOR: Hey, hey, hey. I do not wanna hear that kind of language in my office.
TJ: Yeah, but I didn't -
COUNSELLOR: Listen, I'm gonna cut you some slack, but you're gonna have to meet me halfway here. TJ shakes his head. He gives up on this conversation. He looks out the window. Hesher is out there - smoking and watching. TJ is suddenly unnerved.
ELSEWHERE ): Are you listening?
TJ: Yeah, OK.
GRANDMA: Hi, pumpkin.
TJ: TJ stands in the doorway. Grandma takes off her glasses.
GRANDMA: How was your day?
TJ: Pretty much sucked.
GRANDMA: Why sweetheart? TJ thinks for a moment.
TJ: I don't know. It just sucked.
GRANDMA: Do I look like I'm sitting in darkness I don't know, maybe, a little.
TJ: I don't know, maybe, a little.
GRANDMA: Maybe I need new glasses? She holds her glasses up for closer inspection.
TJ: Whose are they?
GRANDMA: Geez, I don't know.
TJ: Well, can you see better with them?
GRANDMA: Jesus, I don't know. Grandma holds the glasses in different positions.
TJ: No. Why, has he been sleeping all day?
GRANDMA: Well, you know, sometimes people get knocked off course a little when bad things happen. But they come good in the end.
GRANDMA: Here's some milk to wet your whistle.
DAD: Thanks mom. Dad shuffles into the kitchen and takes his seat at the table. Dad empties a couple of pills into his palm and downs them with milk. TJ forks his food around his plate.
TJ: Take some applesauce, sweetheart.
GRANDMA: Take some applesauce, sweetheart.
DAD: What's the time?
TJ: It's six o'clock. Have you been sleeping all day?
DAD: I just had to lay down for a bit. Dad looks up but doesn't seem to notice TJ's bruised face.
TJ: Fine. When are you going back to work?
DAD: That's a good question. Dad scrapes a mouthful onto his fork, avoiding the good question. A moment passes. TJ stares at him.
TJ: Are you gonna answer it?
DAD: I don't know. I'm not ready yet. Dad's eyes are lowered. He stares at his plate. TJ watches him, feeling powerless.
TJ: I'm not ready yet either. They eat in silence.
GRANDMA: TJ, would you please pass me the salt? TJ passes the bunny salt shaker.
DOCTOR: ( referring to the smell ) Whoa, that's like an eight week old dirty sock. OK, so how does that feel? You wanna turn your wrist like this for me? The doctor demonstrates. TJ imitates.
TJ: I don't know. It feels kinda weird, I can't tell.
DOCTOR: It will feel strange for a few days, but should start to feel normal again soon. Alright, lookin' good. I s'pose I should write you a note for school. The doctor writes the note. While he does so he makes chit chat.
TJ: Not great. I don't know. You should probably just ask him yourself.
MRS ELSBERRY: If we consider that dreams serve a metaphoric function in narrative fiction, as they do in life, what metaphoric function would you suggest the dreams here are serving? TJ sits in the back of the class, by the window. A little pebble hits TJ's desk. It bounces onto the floor. TJ looks around to find where it came from - and then another one hits him in the head. He looks out the window. Hesher is right outside the window. He takes the cap off of a large BLACK MAGIC MARKER. He holds it up to his nose and takes a long slow inhale. He exhales slow and long, staring hard at TJ. TJ looks around confused. Hesher recaps the marker, throws it hard at TJ and wanders off. The marker hits TJ, then falls to floor near his feet. He reaches for it. Mrs. Elsberry sees this.
DUSTIN: You're fuckin' dead.
NICOLE: Leave him alone! Dustin shakes erratically, Nicole has a tight grip on him, but eventually Dustin manages to throw her onto the ground.
DUSTIN: What the fuck are you doing lady? Nicole picks herself up off the ground and holds up her fists like she's ready to fight. She doesn't look very tough.
NICOLE: What are you doing?! Nicole stands defiantly between Dustin and TJ. Dustin looks around at the scene he's created in the street. A man steps out of his car. Dustin realizes it's time to go.
DUSTIN: ( TO TJ )
NICOLE: Are you alright?
TJ: I don't know.
NICOLE: I don't think so. Am I?
TJ: I don't know. TJ grabs his T-shirt and pulls it back on. He picks his bike up off the ground and hops on. He goes to peddle, but the chain is busted. His peddling goes nowhere.
NICOLE: I can't believe he called me lady. Do I look like a lady to you?
TJ: I don't know, I guess?
NICOLE: Thanks. I mean do I look old? Well anyway, at least I can say I've been in a fight. She thinks about this for a beat. TJ is silent.
TJ: I think your ice cream's melting.
NICOLE: Oh shit. She tries to pick it up, suddenly flustered. It drips everywhere. She doesn't know what to do with it. It's too melted to eat.
TJ: Well actually, I basically just didn't want to have to go home and then spend the rest of the day feeling bad about the fact that I didn't help you and then hear about you on the news being beat to death in the parking lot. So you know, really I'm just - I did it for me. I'm just selfish.
NICOLE: Well actually, I basically just didn't want to have to go home and then spend the rest of the day feeling bad about the fact that I didn't help you and then hear about you on the news being beat to death in the parking lot. So you know, really I'm just - I did it for me. I'm just selfish.
NICOLE: Perfect landing. She gets out of the car.
TJ: Ah, I don't know, black?
NICOLE: Black? Really? Are you sure?
TJ: OK, red?
NICOLE: Nicole walks off. TJ watches her for a beat then his eye wanders over the contents of her messy car. He picks up a white name tag from the coin tray between the seats. It reads: RALPH'S - Hi my name is NICOLE, how can I help you? TJ looks up and sees Nicole heading back to the car. He puts the name tag down as the car door opens and Nicole gets in. She hands him a stick of red licorice covered in green sugar.
NICOLE: It's super sour isn't it? You don't have to eat it if you don't like it.
TJ: It's really sour.
NICOLE: I know, that's the point. I used to hate this crazy sour stuff, I don't know what happened. I just recently acquired a taste for it. I don't even really know what's in it, but I pretty much eat it all the time. And I'm sure it's making me fat. I just don't want to end up like those fat old ladies you sometimes see, you know, the really fat ones? TJ doesn't know what to make of her.
TJ: OK, thanks for the ride. I really appreciate it. He hurries to the door.
NICOLE: TJ turns.
TJ: TJ rushes back. He drags it out of her car.
GRANDMA: Hi, TJ. What you doing around the Grandma lets TJ in. TJ is nervous.
TJ: I just, I dunno. I was just dumping my TJ heads for the living room.
GRANDMA: Your Dad's gone to the supermarket, honey. Everything OK?
TJ: Ah, yeah, OK. But TJ isn't listening. He can't stop thinking about that black van. He exits the kitchen.
HESHER: Where's the laundry room?
TJ: My dad'll be home soon.
HESHER: Where's the laundry room?
TJ: You've got two seconds to tell me where the laundry room is before I tear your fuckin' head off and skull fuck you. TJ points to a door off the lounge.
HESHER: You've got two seconds to tell me where the laundry room is before I tear your fuckin' head off and skull fuck you. TJ points to a door off the lounge.
TJ: It's through there. But why? You can't - my dad's gonna be home soon. Hesher stares at him for a second, then heads for the door.
TJ: What are you doing? You can't - Hesher turns on a dime and grabs TJ by his throat and pins him against the wall.
HESHER: I swear to god. I'll cut your face He closes the lid. He wrenches the dial around and clicks 'start'. The machine begins a loud cycle. Hesher exits. TJ follows awkwardly.
TJ: You can't smoke in here. Hesher drags deep and blows the smoke out in a long whistle straight into the air above him.
HESHER: Can I put it out in your mouth?
TJ: What?! Wait.
GRANDMA: I'm gonna make a cake. Do you remember my cherry cake story? TJ gets down on his knees and digs his way through the cupboard while Grandma rambles, continuing her chicken crumbing.
TJ: Grandma, can I hear the rest of your story later? I'm kinda busy.
GRANDMA: Oh, of course honey.
DAD: TJ, who's this? After a long uncomfortable silence, Hesher stands and extends his hand.
HESHER: My name's Hesher. Call me Hesher.
DAD: ( TO TJ )
TJ: He's doing laundry. They stand looking at each other. TJ is just plain stressed out.
DAD: Why is he smoking in the house?
TJ: I don't know. Hesher continues flipping channels. He's not finding anything he Did you tell him he can't?
DAD: Did you tell him he can't?
TJ: How come you only have four channels? Hesher gets up off the couch and exits the room.
HESHER: How come you only have four channels? Hesher gets up off the couch and exits the room.
GRANDMA: Hello there.
HESHER: Hello, old lady. His cigarette is done. He flicks it into the sink. It sizzles out. He opens another drawer. Dad enters with his grocery bag.
DAD: ( TO HESHER )
HESHER: Nope, I'm good. He exits the kitchen.
HESHER: TJ and Dad stand staring frozen. Hesher lifts himself up out of the bushes, brushes himself off and heads back to the house. He walks right past them and back inside.
TJ: So, ah, what are you doing now? Hesher slams the dryer door shut and wrenches the dial around. The dryer starts up loud. Hesher pretends he can't hear TJ.
HESHER: He turns and looks into the garage which is right off the laundry room. He points inside.
TJ: ( huh? ) That's the garage. Hesher walks into the garage with his bag and slams the door leaving TJ standing in the laundry room with the noisy dryer.
GRANDMA: Does your friend want to eat some dinner dear?
TJ: He's not hungry.
GRANDMA: Are you sure?
TJ: Yeah, I'm sure.
DAD: What's he doing in the garage?
TJ: I don't know. I said he could practice his guitar in there.
GRANDMA: That's great honey, it's nice having a bit of music in the house again. Is he a new friend?
TJ: Yeah, sort of.
GRANDMA: You know your grandfather played the harmonica for many years. TJ doesn't respond. He eats. Dad looks on perplexed, yet INT. FORNEY HOUSE / BATHROOM - MORNING TJ is dressed for school, wet hair. He brushes his teeth. We can hear the sound of cartoons in the background. TJ stops brushing and listens a second. He hasn't heard cartoons at this hour in a long time.
GRANDMA: Morning, TJ.
TJ: Hi, Grandma.
GRANDMA: Oh, I'm sorry, honey. We're out of milk. I can cook you up some eggs if you like, dear.
TJ: No, thanks. I don't have time. TJ leans back and looks into the TV room at Hesher enjoying his milky cereal.
GRANDMA: Would you like to come for a walk with me today?
TJ: I can't, Grandma. I gotta go to No, I mean later. This afternoon. TJ grabs his backpack.
GRANDMA: No, I mean later. This afternoon. TJ grabs his backpack.
TJ: I don't know. Can you ask me when I get home?
GRANDMA: OK, honey.
LARRY: I need to talk to you.
TJ: I need to talk to you.
LARRY: Oh, yeah? What about? TJ enters and sits opposite.
TJ: I want to get the car back.
LARRY: Yeah, I figured that. You made it pretty clear the last time you were here, and I thought I made it pretty clear that I couldn't give it to you.
TJ: What do I need to do to get it back?
LARRY: The car's not for sale.
TJ: I want to get it back, though. How much do you want for it? Larry takes a breath. He doesn't want to be having this conversation. He counts the obstacles out on his fingers.
LARRY: I don't know. We're talking at least eighteen hundred dollars, not including taxes, registration, ADM, or dealer's fees. On top of that, you'd need a driver's license. I'm guessing you don't have one of those. You'd need valid car insurance. I'm guessing you don't have that either. But even if you did have these things, I still couldn't sell it to you because the car's not street legal. There's a million reasons why I can't sell it to For a second it seems Larry feels sympathetic toward TJ.
DUSTIN: You're lucky I'm at work right now.
NICOLE: Hi Sir, how are you today? Oh, hey.
TJ: How's it goin'?
NICOLE: How's it goin'?
TJ: I got you a replacement ice cream. Nicole is a little taken aback.
NICOLE: Oh my god. That's so sweet, thanks. TJ smiles awkwardly. He hands her the cone.
TJ: I paid for it over there. He points to the ice cream counter on the other side of the Oh, OK. She holds the cone, not quite sure what to do with it, not quite sure how to take this kid.
NICOLE: Oh, OK. She holds the cone, not quite sure what to do with it, not quite sure how to take this kid.
TJ: ( NERVOUS )
NICOLE: See ya. Nicole watches him leave while a line of customers wait to be served. She smiles at the next customer, sharing the moment.
GRANDMA: - and his wife said, yes they'd like to come back to the house.' So earlier that day I made a cherry cake and I used a new product - I didn't know it till afterwards- I used Fluffo. They never made it again that Fluffo. It was an imitation brand. I served the cake and there was silence. And then - Grandma makes a clicking sound with her tongue on the roof of her mouth.
GRANDMA: So who's coming for a walk with me tomorrow morning? Again silence. Clearly no one is jumping at this opportunity.
TJ?: I can't Grandma. I have school Ok, well you're always invited.
TJ: I can't Grandma. I have school Ok, well you're always invited.
GRANDMA: Ok, well you're always invited.
HESHER: So what? Everyone turns toward Hesher. This is the first thing to come out of his mouth all night. He's looking at TJ.
GRANDMA: He's right TJ, it'd be very good for you to get some fresh air.
HESHER: Your Grandma goes walking in the morning by herself? You can't get your ass outta bed like an hour earlier? She could get raped. Dad stops chewing. TJ looks at Hesher like he's crazy.
TJ: Fuckin' Google it, dude. The Granny Killer, he killed like hella old ladies by strangling them with their dirty panties. ( taking a mouthful ) Not all of them necessarily got fucked, but they all got penetrated by like the dude's fingers and I don't know, other shit too.
HESHER: Fuckin' Google it, dude. The Granny Killer, he killed like hella old ladies by strangling them with their dirty panties. ( taking a mouthful ) Not all of them necessarily got fucked, but they all got penetrated by like the dude's fingers and I don't know, other shit too.
DAD: That's enough.
HESHER: ( TO TJ )
GRANDMA: Why would anyone rape me?
HESHER: I don't know, they do it, Grandma. There's some sick fucks out there.
DAD: That's enough. Everyone continues to eat in silence. TJ stares at Hesher who is shovelling food into his mouth.
KID 1: Hey, Teej. What are you doing? Come sit with us, we're in our spot.
TJ: What? Uh, Ok. TJ gets up reluctantly, then notices Hesher walking across the yard towards the bathroom followed by an EMO KID with a I'll meet you there in a second. TJ walks off, following Hesher. Kid 1 watches TJ walk off toward the bathroom.
TJ: What are you doing here?
HESHER: What are you doing at my school?
TJ: What are you doing at my school?
HESHER: I'm putting out a fire. TJ notices that he isn't actually urinating in the bowl. He's spraying his pee all over the seat and the lid and the wall and the floor. He finishes and zips up. He turns and shoves past TJ. Hesher looks at his hair in the mirror, then exits. TJ watches him leave, frustrated. He follows him out.
DUSTIN: You fucked my car, you little prick. Dustin holds TJ's head down in the tray. He shoves his face into the little yellow urinal deodorizer cake.
DAD: You ready?
TJ: I don't wanna go.
DAD: It'll be good for us, Teej. C'mon. We'll be late. Dad takes TJ's bike and starts trying to fit it in the backseat.
TJ: I really don't want to go.
DAD: I don't think anyone ever 'wants to go' to these things. It's supposed to be good for us. That's the whole TJ stands watching his Dad struggle with the bike.
MERYL: OK, so welcome everyone to the Transformational Grief Group. My name is Meryl. We should start off by going around the circle and introducing ourselves and briefly explaining why we are here. Hi Miss, would you please start us off? A heavy set woman, COLEEN, and her husband, JACK, sit on beanbags looking pale and sad.
COLEEN: We are the Bolder family. I am Coleen and this is my husband Jack. Our daughter Cynthia was murdered last ( she chokes a bit ) She was the victim of a violent attack that was unfair and sick. She can't go on. Her husband Jack sets his hand on her shoulder. She is able to hold back the tears.
JACK: Hi, my name is Jack. As my wife said, we're here hoping for some answers and just some help with the pain.
MERYL: Thank you, Coleen and Jack. Welcome. Weird silence.
DAD: Ah, OK. Sure. My name is Paul Forney. This is my son, TJ. We're here today because we lost my wife, TJ's mother, a bit more than two months ago now. And ah, I don't know, we're still trying to come to terms with things and, you know, just find some guidance of some kind, I guess, and, ah, yeah, Dad finishes mid-sentence, then brief silence.
MERYL: OK, great. Welcome, Paul. TJ? Would you like to introduce yourself, say a few words to the group?
TJ: Not really. Meryl waits to see if TJ has anything more to add. He doesn't.
MERYL: OK. That's OK. ( to the person next to TJ ) Nicholas, would you like to introduce yourself to the group?
GRANDMA: Hi, honey. How was your special group?
TJ: TJ exits the kitchen. He walks the hall to the bathroom. He turns the handle and enters.
TJ: Fuck you!
HESHER: Fuck you.
TJ: Fuck you. You let that fuck stick my head in a toilet and you don't do anything about it? You stand there and fucking watch him do it? Hesher ignores TJ. He watches him closely. He calmly takes a drag of his cigarette and ashes into the bath.
HESHER: ( CALM )
TJ: Where are we going? Hesher ignores him.
HESHER: Touch my stereo again, I'll seriously fucking hurt you. Hesher turns the music back up. TJ is confused. Hesher drives into a gas station and pulls on the handbrake. He lights another cigarette.
TJ: What are we doing? Hesher gets out of the van and slams the door shut. He goes around the back of the van and opens the back doors. He pulls something out and shuts the doors again. Through the side-view mirror, TJ can see Hesher filling up a big beat-up plastic gas container. He continues to smoke.
TJ: What are we -
TJ: Hey, seriously. What are you doing? Hesher makes his way across the street toward the house and the yellow Mustang. He pours gasoline all over the car. He does this with confidence - he's clearly had some practice.
WOMAN: Hey, get back here!
HESHER: Get in.
TJ: You fucking ditched me.
HESHER: Get in the van, dude.
TJ: What the fuck's wrong with you?!
HESHER: What's wrong with you?
TJ: What's wrong with you?
HESHER: What's the problem? That's the guy who put you in the toilet.
TJ: Yeah, but - Hesher suddenly freezes, looks round, motions for TJ to 'shhh'.
HESHER: ( WHISPERS )
HESHER: It's for you. Hesher disappears back into the house, smiling at TJ as he Are you Thomas Forney?
COP: Are you Thomas Forney?
TJ: ( toothbrush in mouth ) We'd like to ask you some questions.
COP: We'd like to ask you some questions.
TJ: What about?
COP: We'd like you to come down to the station with us.
TJ: What for?
HESHER: ( TO DAD )
COP: OK, so we're gonna have to let you go now. We may very well be calling on you again very soon, but in the meantime, let this be a warning to you. Regardless of what evidence we do or don't find, you've come to our attention today. Our attention isn't But I didn't do anything.
TJ: But I didn't do anything.
COP: You hearing me here? These are very serious crimes we've been presented with. Let's just say someone had been in that car, and they'd burned - to death. We'd be talking about manslaughter, possibly murder. Have you thought about that? You'd be sitting here with detectives from Homicide right now. These are felony offences we're talking about, son. Serious jail-time offences. TJ nods, his dad looks on.
DAD: Did you do it? TJ pauses before answering.
TJ: Not really.
DAD: Not really?
TJ: I didn't do it.
DAD: What does `not really' mean? TJ ignores him, stares out the car window.
TJ: It means I didn't do it.
DAD: No, it doesn't. Why would you say 'not I didn't.
TJ: I didn't.
DAD: You did. I heard you.
TJ: I said I didn't do it.
DAD: Yeah, before that. I asked if you did it. You said `not really'.
TJ: I can't remember what I said.
DAD: Why would you do something like that?
HESHER: TJ walks past Hesher without looking at him.
HESHER: So what'd the pigs want?
TJ: What the fuck do you think!?
HESHER: Did they give you a cavity search?
TJ: Did any of the cops put their fingers in your butthole?
HESHER: Did any of the cops put their fingers in your butthole?
TJ: Just fuck off, OK.
HESHER: What'd they do?
TJ: They took my fucking finger prints!
HESHER: So what?
TJ: So what!? I can get into serious Oh, is that right?
HESHER: Oh, is that right?
TJ: Yeah, that's right! They don't take this shit lightly.
HESHER: Oh, they don't?
TJ: People could have been hurt! If someone was killed it would have been considered murder. Hesher feigns concern.
HESHER: Really? Murder?
TJ: Please just leave me alone.
HESHER: OK, but first show me your best impression of a dumpling.
TJ: You know, a dumpling, the Chinese little thingies you eat - Hesher holds up his thumb and index finger to show the size of a dumpling. TJ shakes his head, he's not finding this funny.
HESHER: You know, a dumpling, the Chinese little thingies you eat - Hesher holds up his thumb and index finger to show the size of a dumpling. TJ shakes his head, he's not finding this funny.
TJ: ( CONTINUED ) CONTINUED: ( 2 )
HESHER: And Hesher is gone in a flash.
HESHER: Do you think she is totally bald or do you think she's more of a landing strip kind of chick or more of a 70's jungle bitch. TJ is startled. Hesher stands behind him, also watching Nicole.
TJ: What are doing here?
HESHER: You're stalking that chick, dude.
TJ: No, I'm not.
HESHER: Yeah, you are. I've been stalking you for half an hour. You gonna try to fuck her?
TJ: What? No.
HESHER: Can't fuck her from here, dude. Gotta be way closer.
TJ: Shut up about it.
HESHER: You wanna poke her clam?
TJ: Shut up.
HESHER: You wanna poke her clam or what?
TJ: Please stop saying that. TJ walks ahead fast. He wants out of this conversation. Nicole finishes up, turns her light off and hangs a 'Check Stand Closed' sign. She walks off toward the back of the store. TJ stops to be sure to avoid her.
HESHER: You want to poke her clam, dude. Nothing wrong with that. Don't be ashamed about it. Humans have been poking vagina for hundreds of years. Longer even. Hesher says this a little too loud. Nearby shoppers look over. TJ shakes his head, then exits the store. Hesher follows.
HESHER: Where you going?
TJ: I'll give you a ride.
HESHER: I'll give you a ride.
TJ: No thanks.
HESHER: OK, but if you come with me it'll take 5 minutes and if you ride it will take you about 15. TJ gets onto his bike.
TJ: Fine, just don't talk to me.
HESHER: I won't say shit.
HESHER: Look dude, I'm really sorry about the fire the other night - He waits a beat for TJ to respond. TJ is still mad, he says That was totally out of control. Foolish and irresponsible actually. TJ looks at Hesher, doubting his sincerity.
TJ: Get that away from me.
HESHER: Dude are you gay? I can't work you Hesher spots Nicole getting into her car. He drops the magazine on TJ's lap and fires up the engine. TJ spots Nicole.
TJ: Hey, what are you doing? Hesher puts the car in gear and begins to follow Nicole's car out of the parking lot.
HESHER: TJ opens the door. Hesher grabs his arm.
HESHER: TJ's first impulse is to duck. Hesher watches the road. We hear the sounds of an angry DRIVER yelling at Nicole. Through the windscreen we see the guy get out of his car, yelling at Nicole.
NICOLE: I'm sorry. I didn't -
DRIVER: You just messed up the back of my car you stupid idiot. You need to pay attention when you're driving a fucking car -
DRIVER: I don't know what your fucking problem is, dude. Why would you just reverse into her? That's fuckin' retarded.
HESHER: I don't know what your fucking problem is, dude. Why would you just reverse into her? That's fuckin' retarded.
DRIVER: What are you talking about?
DRIVER: Are you out of your mind?
HESHER: You better start making like you're gonna pay her for the damage.
DRIVER: I didn't back into her. I don't know what you're talking about. Hesher rips his shirt off, aggressively.
HESHER: You calling me a fucking liar, dude!?
DRIVER: No, I, I, I'm just saying I don't know what's going on here.
HESHER: You're calling me a fucking liar is what's going on here. Hesher pushes the guy hard.
DRIVER: Look, I don't want any trouble, sir.
HESHER: Fight me cocksucker! Hesher is seriously amping up the street agro. The guy doesn't know what to do. He starts heading back to his car.
DRIVER: This is ridiculous -
HESHER: Come back here and find out how ridiculous it is! The guy gets in his car and speeds away, leaving Hesher ( shirtless ) and Nicole in the street. Hesher stubs his cigarette, now totally relaxed again.
TJ: Come on man, let's just go.
HESHER: Your sexy girlfriend's in trouble. We're not going anywhere. Hesher gets out. TJ ducks. He can't see what's going on. Long seconds pass. And then his door opens. Hesher is standing there next to Nicole.
TJ: EXT. FAIR OAKS STREET - MOMENTS LATER TJ and Hesher push Nicole's car off to the side of the road.
NICOLE: Sometimes, you know, a day is bad and then when you think it couldn't get any worse you suddenly discover whole new ways it can get worse. Hesher reaches over her and pulls a joint from the glove compartment. He lights the joint and takes a big toke. He offers it to Nicole.
HESHER: This one time I had like four hella drunk chicks in the back of the van, and we were going for it and I had one hand on this one girl's tit and my other hand on this other chick's twat, but there was like still two other girls wanting to get off so like I had my foot rubbing on one girl's asshole while I'm trying to eat the other girl out, and I was going crazy man. It was too much. I couldn't work out which chick was which and I'm making one girl cum but then I'm forgetting about the others and my tongue's hurting and my fingers are getting tired and like eventually I was just like 'Fuck this. This is too much' and I just stepped back. I just stepped back. And before you know it these girls are all working on each other, you know. They're all fingering each other and eating each other out, you know, and I jerk myself off and everyone's a winner, you know? Nicole looks at Hesher like he's crazy. TJ is in the back - he can't believe what's coming out of Hesher's mouth. A moment Was that some kind of perverted metaphor for me? About how I should just step back and let things work themselves out?
NICOLE: Was that some kind of perverted metaphor for me? About how I should just step back and let things work themselves out?
HESHER: A what? He reaches for the stereo and cranks the knob - Metallica's, 'Motorbreath' BLASTS through the speakers. As if he were possessed by the music, Hesher veers dangerously off the road onto a dirt patch. He has a crazed look in his eyes. TJ and Nicole grab onto anything they can hold onto. Hesher turns the wheel hard and floors the gas. The van spins in circles spraying dirt in every direction. TJ gets thrown from the back seat onto the ground. Dirt pours into the windows and covers them from head to toe. Hesher corrects the wheel and veers back onto the road again.
NICOLE: What the hell was that? Hesher looks over at Nicole.
HESHER: I saw a mouse.
NICOLE: TJ picks himself up off the van's floor, dusting himself off.
TJ: I have dirt in my mouth. TJ scrapes his tongue with his fingers. Nicole breaks a little EXT. SUBURBAN HOME - DAY The black van pulls up curb-side outside a neat suburban home. Hesher gets out and walks, covered in dirt, to the front door of the house. He looks in through the window, knocks, waits. An old man opens the door. They exchange a few words. Hesher heads back to the van and they drive off. Nicole and TJ seem confused.
NICOLE: Who's that guy? Hesher says nothing. They drive three houses down the street and stop again. Hesher gets out. Again he peers in the window, knocks on the door. This time no answer. He heads back to the van. Nicole and TJ watch him approach from inside. He sticks his head in.
HESHER: We're here. Come on, let's go.
NICOLE: We're where?
HESHER: My uncle's house.
NICOLE: What was that back there?
HESHER: What was what?
NICOLE: That other house?
HESHER: Wrong house.
NICOLE: What the fuck!?
HESHER: What? You're dirty.
NICOLE: Yeah, and now I'm wet. Hesher smiles wide.
HESHER: You're dirty and wet. I'm coming in. He throws his T-shirt off and does a huge bomb into the pool.
NICOLE: Cut it out.
HESHER: R2! Shut down all the fucken' trash compactors on the detention level! Hesher dives under the water again. Nicole squirms. Hesher has her leg. He doesn't drag her under. He just tugs her leg. She slaps at the water. He tugs her leg again. Pretty soon she's laughing. Hesher's head appears above water momentarily.
NICOLE: So, how do you know this guy?
TJ: I don't know, he's sort of moved into my grandma's house with us.
NICOLE: What, like he's renting a room or No, not really, I don't know, it's kinda a long story. TJ flicks the ant off of his finger, then another one that's climbing up his arm.
TJ: No, not really, I don't know, it's kinda a long story. TJ flicks the ant off of his finger, then another one that's climbing up his arm.
NICOLE: Do you realize that the equivalent to you flicking that ant would be like one of us getting hit in the face by a giant wrecking ball at 100 miles an hour and getting thrown into the next TJ stops mid ant flicking.
TJ: Sorry, I.
NICOLE: Do you think the other ants are gonna wonder where that ant's gone? Do you think their gonna miss her? TJ doesn't know how to answer. Hesher reappears with a container of lighter fluid and goes to the diving board. He climbs on and squirts the lighter fluid through his lighter, sending streams of flames into the pool. Hesher douses the diving board with lighter fluid and ignites it with his lighter. The diving board erupts into flames.
HESHER: ( SINGING )
TJ: Hesher hops over the fence.
NICOLE: Did he just leave us? I think we should get out of here. Nicole stands and heads for the gate, TJ tags behind. They jump the side fence and head out into the street, dripping wet.
TJ: My shoes are so squishy. TJ steps hard, squirting water out the sides of his wet shoes. Nicole smiles.
NICOLE: So, what's his name?
TJ: ( CONTINUED )
NICOLE: Hesher?. Is that a name?
TJ: I don't know. I guess?
NICOLE: Does he have a last name?
TJ: I don't know.
NICOLE: How old is he?
TJ: I don't know.
NICOLE: Do you know anything about him?
TJ: Not really. That was so lucky you guys were behind me when that guy got all mad about his car. I was freaking out. I don't really have any insurance right now. I just can't afford it. There's no way I could afford to fix that guy's car. How do people do this stuff? I mean, I have a job. It's kind of a joke though. I've been there for like a year and I'm still only doing like five hours a week. Why aren't they giving me any more hours? Do you think it's because they think I suck? Did you think I sucked when I served you at the checkout?
NICOLE: That was so lucky you guys were behind me when that guy got all mad about his car. I was freaking out. I don't really have any insurance right now. I just can't afford it. There's no way I could afford to fix that guy's car. How do people do this stuff? I mean, I have a job. It's kind of a joke though. I've been there for like a year and I'm still only doing like five hours a week. Why aren't they giving me any more hours? Do you think it's because they think I suck? Did you think I sucked when I served you at the checkout?
TJ: ( UNSURE )
NICOLE: I don't even get paid enough to really cover my rent. I'm gonna have to start selling shit pretty soon.
TJ: Here, I got two bucks.
NICOLE: The sad thing is I could actually use EXT. STREET - AFTERNOON A parking ticket sits under the wiper on Nicole's windshield. TJ and Nicole approach the car, smiling - and then Nicole sees the ticket. Her face sinks immediately.
NICOLE: Oh, no. Please tell me that's not a She runs the last few steps to the car and rips the ticket from under the wiper. She reads it quick.
TJ: I would. She lets out a small disbelieving laugh.
NICOLE: That's nice of you to say, but I doubt I would. If you died right now.
TJ: I would. If you died right now.
NICOLE: Please don't call me lady. She smiles warmly at TJ.
GRANDMA: Hi TJ.
TJ: Hey Grandma.
HESHER: So did you fuck her?
TJ: What?! No?! Dad enters tying the drawstring on his track pants. He looks messy as ever.
DAD: ( TO TJ )
TJ: Counselling - 3:30, I'm there by Oh, sorry. I forgot.
DAD: Counselling - 3:30, I'm there by Oh, sorry. I forgot.
TJ: Oh, sorry. I forgot.
DAD: Yeah, that's real nice. This thing is for you just as much as it is for me. I waited outside school for 45 Yeah, well, I told you I don't want to Maybe you should let me know before you don't show up next time.
TJ: Yeah, well, I told you I don't want to Maybe you should let me know before you don't show up next time.
DAD: Maybe you should let me know before you don't show up next time.
TJ: I did. I told you I didn't want to go. I told you a hundred times.
DAD: No you didn't.
TJ: Yes I did. You're just not listening.
DAD: No you didn't. What you told me was that you didn't want to go. You didn't tell me that you were just not going to show up.
TJ: What difference does it make?
DAD: For me a big difference. It means, I'm sitting on a fucking beanbag in a room full of losers by myself. Grandma sets more food on the table.
GRANDMA: Boys please, I'm not feeling well. Grandma heads back to the kitchen to grab more food. There is silence at the table.
DAD: ( TO HESHER )
HESHER: ( discreetly, to TJ ) Did you finger her twat?
TJ: Shut the fuck up.
DAD: ( SWALLOWING PILLS )
TJ: Hesher licks the potatoes off his finger.
DAD: Language. I don't wanna hear it.
TJ: Did you hear what he just said?
DAD: I don't care. If I hear it again, you're going to your room.
TJ: My room!? You gonna start punishing me Maybe I need to. If it's not the language, then it's your lack of responsibility. or I'm having to escort you down to the police station.
DAD: Maybe I need to. If it's not the language, then it's your lack of responsibility. or I'm having to escort you down to the police station.
TJ: Shit, dad. I'm really sorry you had your ass dragged off the couch. I'm sorry you had to put some fucking underpants on for the first time in TJ sits and fumes, nostrils flaring.
DAD: TJ sits and fumes, nostrils flaring.
TJ: TJ sits and fumes, nostrils flaring.
DAD: That's enough.
TJ: Oh, what, soon as I'm right, that's TJ! I don't want to hear one more word from you!
DAD: TJ! I don't want to hear one more word from you!
TJ: Fine. Fuck this. TJ sweeps his plate off the table. It goes crashing onto the kitchen floor, food everywhere. Grandma walks back into the room, looking worried. Hesher seems riveted, like he's watching the tennis. And then Dad sweeps his plate off the table. Crash, food, mess. He glares back at TJ.
DAD: That make you feel better? TJ wrenches his chair back and storms off.
GRANDMA: Did I miss something?
HESHER: ( MOUTH FULL )
GRANDMA: Those boys have been through a lot. This makes Grandma very sad.
HESHER: This is delicious.
GRANDMA: Thank you, dear. Hesher holds up a piece of bacon covered in applesauce and licks off the sauce.
HESHER: What's green and slimy and smells like I don't know, dear.
GRANDMA: I don't know, dear.
HESHER: What's green and slimy and smells like A worm? I don't know. I'm going to lie down. I'm not feeling well. I'm very Oh, OK. Grandma exits. Hesher finishes the last few bites of his dinner. He notices Dad's pill bottle. He reaches for them. He unscrews the lid and empties a few into his hand. He swallows the pills.
GRANDMA: A worm? I don't know. I'm going to lie down. I'm not feeling well. I'm very Oh, OK. Grandma exits. Hesher finishes the last few bites of his dinner. He notices Dad's pill bottle. He reaches for them. He unscrews the lid and empties a few into his hand. He swallows the pills.
HESHER: Oh, OK. Grandma exits. Hesher finishes the last few bites of his dinner. He notices Dad's pill bottle. He reaches for them. He unscrews the lid and empties a few into his hand. He swallows the pills.
HESHER: Did you figure it out yet?
GRANDMA: Figure what out, dear?
HESHER: What's green and slimy and smells like No, not yet dear. Can you do me a Sure, what?
GRANDMA: No, not yet dear. Can you do me a Sure, what?
HESHER: Sure, what?
GRANDMA: Will you please hand me that red tin on the cabinet dear? Hesher enters the room, grabs the tin from on top of the cabinet and hands it to Grandma on the bed.
HESHER: Kermit the frog's finger.
GRANDMA: Think about it. Miss Piggy. Grandma opens her red tin and takes out what looks like a rolled Woah, what's that?
HESHER: Think about it. Miss Piggy. Grandma opens her red tin and takes out what looks like a rolled Woah, what's that?
GRANDMA: Oh, I'm feeling very nauseated. They're medical cigarettes that help me with the nausea. Will you light a match for me, dear?
HESHER: ( IMPRESSED )
GRANDMA: What is that?
HESHER: It's a bong. The water filters the smoke. It's probably the most healthy way to smoke weed. Hesher lights up and takes a HUGE hit from the bong. He explains his technique to Grandma while holding the smoke in.
GRANDMA: Umm, OK. Grandma takes the bong and has a hit. It's a bit clunky, but she manages to make it work.
HESHER: Ok, lift your finger. Hesher helps her. The smoke shoots into her lungs. Grandma begins to cough.
GRANDMA: Oh, wow. That was a big one.
HESHER: Yeah, that was good. Hit it again. Grandma has another hit. It goes well. She blows out the smoke. Hesher takes the bong off her and has another HUGE one for himself. He passes the bong back.
GRANDMA: I think I'm OK, dear. Hesher takes the last hit. He dusts off the bowl and sets the water pipe down. They sit for a moment and let the drug sink in.
HESHER: Who wants to know?
GRANDMA: I don't know. You seem a little older than TJ.
HESHER: Oh, stop it. Aren't you a little old to be hanging around TJ all the time?
GRANDMA: Oh, stop it. Aren't you a little old to be hanging around TJ all the time?
HESHER: Aren't you?
GRANDMA: No, I'm his grandmother.
HESHER: Yeah, I guess you have a point. OK, well I used to have a mouse. No, wait. hang on a minute. I used to have a snake. And do you know what snakes eat?
GRANDMA: Actually, there's no limit to the food items that you can even think of that a snake might eat. Whatever is available in abundance would become the prey for the snakes. Depending on their growth, their diet - Hesher cuts her off.
HESHER: Yeah, OK, OK well, actually they eat They do eat mice. A lot of times snakes eat other snakes because they're the right shape -
GRANDMA: They do eat mice. A lot of times snakes eat other snakes because they're the right shape -
HESHER: Yeah, OK, well anyway. I used to have a snake and I fed it mice. But one time I fed this little fuckin' mouse to my snake and that mouse was tough. I dropped that mouse in the snake's tank and the snake wouldn't go near him, and any time he tried that mouse would just smack him with his little, you know. Hesher looks at his hand, not knowing what mouse hands are With his little mouse hand. So instead of eating the mouse the snake just curled up crying in the corner and the mouse ruled that fuckin' cage. And this went on for weeks, the snake wouldn't go near him. That tiny mouse used to sit in a little miniature lawn chair scratching his balls and shelling peanuts and this snake was just too scared to go near it. And cuz the snake was scared of that mouse I had to feed him other mice, but every time I dropped another mouse in the tank, it'd hide behind the brave mouse. And so eventually the snake starved to death. I had a cage full of Grandma is stoned and sleepy and fading out.
GRANDMA: So is TJ the mouse?
HESHER: Maybe he is.
GRANDMA: Well then, what am I?
HESHER: You're an old lady.
GRANDMA: No, I'm a grandmother.
HESHER: Yes you are. And you know what grandmother? I'm gonna go on a walk with you in the morning.
GRANDMA: Oh, that's nice. Where are you going?
HESHER: I'm not going anywhere. I'm going with you. Around the block, I guess.
GRANDMA: Oh, OK, well have a nice time. I'll see you when you get back.
HESHER: No, I'm going with you.
GRANDMA: Ohh, OK, caauuse iii. Grandma has fallen asleep, but mumbles like she is continuing the conversation. Hesher smiles to himself, turns off her lamp and exits the room.
LARRY: Yeah, why don't you just have him send them over. Sure. Scott, can you hold on a minute?
TJ: Can I talk to you?
LARRY: I'm on the phone here. Can you see I need to talk to you.
TJ: I need to talk to you.
LARRY: I'm on the phone. Wait outside. I'll be with you in a minute. TJ takes a seat outside the office. Larry closes the door. Dustin Howard appears.
DUSTIN: The fuck are you doing here?
TJ: I came to talk to him.
DUSTIN: What about?
TJ: It's none of your business.
DUSTIN: What do you wanna talk to him about? TJ ignores him. Dustin taps TJ's leg with his foot.
TJ: Just leave me alone. Larry's door opens. Larry emerges from his office. TJ stands.
LARRY: I got the money.
TJ: I got the money.
LARRY: What money?
TJ: The money for the car.
LARRY: What money for the car?
TJ: You said if I got eighteen hundred dollars I could have the car back.
LARRY: Are you kidding me?
TJ: What? What do you mean-
LARRY: Kid. Leave me alone. I feel like I've had this conversation with you too many times already, but I can tell you we won't be having it again because the car's gone.
TJ: What are you talking about?
LARRY: It's all over. It's gone. It's not Where's it gone?!
TJ: Where's it gone?!
LARRY: Kid. It's over. Good bye. Larry steps back into his office and shuts the door.
TJ: ( TO DUSTIN )
DUSTIN: And what makes you think I'm gonna tell you? TJ stares, angry. An awkward moment passes. He storms away, dragging a water cooler down as he leaves. It crashes onto the ground. Water spills everywhere.
HESHER: ( CONTINUED )
DAD: Hesher enters the room.
HESHER: He punches a hold in the wall. He paces angrily back & forth. Dad, holding back tears, gets up off the coach and hugs TJ.
FUCK!: He punches a hold in the wall. He paces angrily back & forth. Dad, holding back tears, gets up off the coach and hugs TJ.
TJ: What's going on?
DAD: Teej. Grandma, she's not.. she's not waking up.
TJ: She won't wake up. Short fast heavy breathing sets in.
DAD: She won't wake up. Short fast heavy breathing sets in.
TJ: What do you mean? TJ runs over to Grandma's room and stops at the door.
DAD: I don't know, she just, she just didn't wake up. TJ is in shock. He sits on the couch next to dad. They are both lost for words. Hesher stands in the corner with his head shoved between the walls. Hesher joins TJ and Dad on the couch. They are all raging inside, confused, lost and upset. They sit together in silence for a long beat, in the same boat for the first time. Hesher breaks the silence. He kicks the table over as he stands.
HESHER: I gotta get the fuck out of here before I hurt someone. He leaves through the front door, leaving it open behind him. TJ gets up in a daze and stands at the doorway looking out. It has started to drizzle.
TJ: Ah, hi. It's TJ here. I, ah, I'm sorry to bug you, but um, I don't know, I guess I wanted to talk to you right now. I don't know. I have a present for you too, so maybe I'll just come drop it off or something, or ah, yeah. Um, OK. Bye. He hangs up the phone and exits.
TJ: What are you doing?
DAD: ( SNAPPING TO )
TJ: It's starting to rain. Dad reaches out his hand and catches a few drops.
DAD: TJ picks up his bike and rides. We stay with Dad as TJ disappears down the wet street.
HESHER: Hey, hey. wait. TJ takes a hard swing into the van, smashing the tail light. Nicole runs out into the street, concerned, wearing an oversized sweatshirt and underpants.
TJ: Fuck you. Fuck you fuck you fuck you.
HESHER: Stop hitting my van.
TJ: Fuck you.
HESHER: Dude, chill out for a second. TJ swings the pipe at Hesher again.
TJ: Get the fuck away from me! I'll smash you in the face, I swear to God. Back the fuck up. TJ swings again. He's so angry, he's practically foaming at the I never want to see you or your ugly fucking face again. That goes for both of you fucking assholes. TJ throws the pipe at Hesher. It hits the road with a loud clang. TJ grabs his bike and rides away furiously. Hesher and Nicole watch TJ ride away. It begins to rain hard.
FUNERAL DIRECTOR: After the service we have complimentary lemonade in our wake room, but should you wish to upgrade to soda and sandwiches we can arrange that. People typically like to have a light bite after the service. The front door slams. TJ storms past the dining room table. The funeral director pauses and watches him pass. The sound of TJ's bedroom door slamming shakes the house.
DAD: Are you OK? TJ refuses to look at his dad.
TJ: Will you just leave me alone. Dad doesn't know what to say beyond this. He feels as lost as TJ does. He leaves the room. TJ paces.
HESHER: I wanna talk to you. TJ pushes Hesher's arm out of the way.
TJ: Get your fucking hands away from me! I told you, I never want to see you Hesher, at a loss, watches TJ grab a brick from the muddy garden and throw it through the passenger side window of his van. Hesher charges TJ. He throws him into the muddy garden and kneels over him holding him by the collar of his hooded I fuckin' told you, leave my van out of this! Hesher lifts TJ up and slams him back down on the ground, knocking the wind out of him. TJ struggles to get away.
HESHER: I fuckin' told you, leave my van out of this! Hesher lifts TJ up and slams him back down on the ground, knocking the wind out of him. TJ struggles to get away.
TJ: Let go of me! Fuckin' let go of me. Dad runs out the front door and pulls Hesher off TJ by the back of his shirt.
DAD: What in God's name - Hesher shakes free from Dad's grip and punches him square in the nose. Dad goes down hard.
HESHER: Don't fuckin' touch m-
TJ: Where's my car?
DUSTIN: What are you doing!?
TJ: Where's my fucking car?
DUSTIN: Are you crazy?!
TJ: You make me ask one more time, your toe's coming off. I swear to God.
DUSTIN: It's gone to the wrecker's.
TJ: The wrecking yard.
DUSTIN: The wrecking yard.
TJ: TJ squeezes a little harder. Dustin squeals a little louder.
DUSTIN: Why would I be lying?
TJ: Because you're a fucking asshole. Tell me where it is.
DUSTIN: It's gone to the wrecker's. I swear to TJ squeezes harder. Dustin squeals.
TJ: If you're lying, I'm gonna cut off every one of your fingers. TJ doesn't quite know what to do now. He stares at Dustin who looks genuinely frightened. TJ releases the shears and backs away. And the second he does so, Dustin leaps off the couch, grabs TJ by the throat and slams him down on the living room floor. TJ drops the shears.
DUSTIN: You finished? Want to tell me something else while you're visiting? Dustin wails into TJ. TJ cowers on the ground. Punches land
HESHER: What the fuck? Dustin moves to stand. Hesher pounces on him, dragging him along the ground. He grabs the shears and brings them straight up to Dustin's nose. In the same movement, he snaps the shears shut and takes the end of Dustin's nose off. Dustin squeals in pain and scurries backwards, clutching his face, blood leaking between his fingers. TJ stands, stunned.
DUSTIN: What the fuck? Dustin moves to stand. Hesher pounces on him, dragging him along the ground. He grabs the shears and brings them straight up to Dustin's nose. In the same movement, he snaps the shears shut and takes the end of Dustin's nose off. Dustin squeals in pain and scurries backwards, clutching his face, blood leaking between his fingers. TJ stands, stunned.
TJ: What the fuck is wrong with you?
HESHER: Oh my god, my nose!
DUSTIN: Oh my god, my nose!
TJ: What the fuck is wrong with you?
HESHER: I just saved you.
TJ: You cut his nose off.
HESHER: Only a bit, it's just a cut. Dustin is crying now, clutching his face. TJ goes to the kitchen.
TJ: You just cut his nose off!
HESHER: What are you talking about? TJ runs a rag under the tap and takes it to Dustin. Hesher stands, clutching the shears, confused.
TJ: Hold this against your face. Dustin moans. Hesher is still confused.
DUSTIN: Oh my god!
HESHER: What's your problem? Dustin holds the rag. TJ stands to face Hesher.
TJ: I want you outta my life. I'm serious. I never want to see you again. How many times do I have say it? They look at each other a moment. Hesher looks taken aback. He honestly believed he was doing a good thing. TJ leaves, through the front door. Hesher stands over a whimpering Dustin wondering what went wrong.
FLASHBACK: A doorbell rings. TJ runs to the door wearing the bottom half a suit. It's the pizza man.
TJ: ( yells into house ) Pizza's here, I need money. Dad, clean shaven, dressed in a suit, comes to the door and ( yells into the house ) OK, pizza's here.
MOM: Teej, c'mon sweetheart. We have to go. We're going to be late.
TJ: What about the pizza?
MOM: We'll eat it in the car. She begins to do up TJ's tie.
DAD: Holy crap, what is this thing? The three emerge from the house. TJ is wearing a suit and carrying the pizza box, Dad's carrying the heavy present, and Mom's carrying a bouquet of flowers and her purse. Dad stands at the door of a little white car. Clearly the box is too big.
MOM: We'll take my car. Dad does a heel spins around the white car and heads towards Mom's red volvo, never losing a beat.
DAD: Sure thing.
FLASHBACK: Dad's driving, eating a slice of pizza. TJ is in the backseat, looking out the window, also eating pizza. Mom does her make-up in the visor mirror.
DAD: I think we should keep the new one and give them our old one.
MOM: That's a great idea. I'll be sure to let them know that our dirty old microwave is a gift from you.
DAD: Good. I'm not even sure they know who I am.
MOM: Honey, they're my friends. Please.
DAD: OK, I just don't understand why they get so many presents.
MOM: A microwave and a bottle of scotch is hardly a lot of presents.
DAD: And flowers. Mom half-laughs and shakes her head.
TJ: ( mouth full of pizza ) Mom can you turn on the radio?
MOM: Sure honey. How about some oldies?
TJ: Oldies but goodies. Mom turns on the oldies station. Dion And The Belmont's, "A Teenager In Love" plays. Dad sings along. The car hits a bump. Mom smudges her lipstick.
MOM: ( TO DAD )
MARIO: ( YELLS LOUDER )
RICKY: Kill it! There's someone in the car!
MARIO: Kill it! There's someone in the car!
MARIO: What the hell are you doing?
TJ: I don't know.
MARIO: What were you doing in there?
TJ: I don't know. I'm sorry.
MARIO: This car's about to get crushed. If I didn't see you, you would be dead.
TJ: I know.
MARIO: What were you thinking, man? TJ doesn't respond, he backs away. Mario watches him walk away, still disbelieving. He turns back to Ricky and gives him the all clear to start her up again. TJ walks to the entrance gate while behind him his mom's car is hoisted high in the air. TJ stops at a dirty vending machine by the gate. He pulls coins from his pocket and slots them in. It spits out a chocolate bar. Moments later TJ stands with his half-eaten chocolate bar while watching his Mom's car get fed into a giant crushing machine and compacted into scrap. Tears well in his eyes. He feels helpless.
DAD: Where have you been?
TJ: Where have you been?
DAD: Where have you been?
TJ: I'm sorry. I lost track of time.
DAD: You lost track of time? It's ten in the morning!
TJ: I'm sorry.
DAD: I've been up all night. How is that fair to me?
TJ: I don't know. Dad looks at him, breathing hard. Tears well in his eyes. Dad starts crying, he's falling to bits.
DAD: Just go to your room. Dad knows he's being pathetic. TJ walks off down the hall.
TJ: Hesher's not here.
NICOLE: I came to see you.
TJ: Why? What do you want?
NICOLE: I wanted to tell you something. TJ stares at her.
TJ: Yeah, well what do you want?
NICOLE: I want to apologize. I feel bad about what happened. I didn't take your feelings into consideration -
TJ: Yeah, well, whatever. It doesn't really matter. I have to go.
NICOLE: Yes it does. It does to me. I like you, TJ. We're friends. TJ looks at her, he doesn't really want to be mad at her.
TJ: I'm sorry I broke your lamp.
NICOLE: It's OK.
TJ: And I'm sorry I called you a fat It's OK.
NICOLE: It's OK.
TJ: You're not fat. Nicole smiles at this.
NICOLE: But I'm a prostitute?
TJ: I dunno. Maybe. They smile at one another. She crosses the lawn back toward TJ. She fixes his tie. She smiles again and then she leaves.
FUNERAL DIRECTOR: Excuse me, Mr. Forney, may I have a He takes Dad aside.
DAD: Ah, sure.
FUNERAL DIRECTOR: I know that we discussed your preferences for some aspects of today's service, including your choice of the cedar casket which the insurance company had covered. Unfortunately we were out of those and instead we've chosen a mahogany casket. Now there is an extra charge for the mahogany which I need to clear with you before we proceed. Is that
OK?: Dad looks confused. He doesn't know how he's supposed to
DAD: Ah, I guess.
FUNERAL DIRECTOR: OK, great, thank you. If you could just sign here. The director hands Dad a fancy pen and holds out a dense order form for him to sign.
FUNERAL DIRECTOR: We are gathered here today to mourn the loss and commemorate the life of Madeleine Frances Forney. ( to arriving late comers ) Ah, if you could please take your seats as quickly as possible that'd be great. Thank you. ( he waits a beat ) Madeleine was a beloved wife, mother, grandmother and friend. And now Mrs Agnes Rosowski, a dear friend and neighbor, will say a few quick words. MRS AGNES ROSOWSKI hobbles her way to the microphone.
MRS ROSOWSKI: I did not know Madeleine long enough, but from the moment I moved into the neighborhood so many years ago, she treated me as though I was part of the MRS ROSOWSKI ( CONT'D ) Madeleine always had open arms and welcomed friends as kindly as her own. She had such a kind wonderful heart. While Agnes speaks, TJ and Dad notice the funeral director, off to the side, whispering business to two of his employees. He makes every attempt to be subtle and discreet about it, but he is clearly struggling with today's workload.
FUNERAL DIRECTOR: OK, thank you, Agnes. Agnes steps towards her seat. When she sees TJ she stops.
MRS ROSOWSKI: TJ, I think you should say something. The funeral director pauses awkward. Everyone looks at TJ.
TJ: TJ makes his way off the stage.
FUNERAL DIRECTOR: OK, so at this point we should conclude today's service with a moment's silence, after which lemonade will be served in the.
HESHER: Actually, I'd like to add to TJ's speech. I think I know where he was going with that. Hesher stands and makes his way to the front. The funeral director tries politely to protest.
FUNERAL DIRECTOR: I'm sorry, sir. Dad stands up in the aisle and tries to stop Hesher.
DAD: What are you doing here? Up on the stage, funeral home employees begin wheeling Grandma's coffin away.
HESHER: Hey, hey, hey. Hesher pushes past Dad and stops the coffin.
FUNERAL DIRECTOR: I'm sorry, sir we really need to- Hesher turns and stands at the microphone.
HESHER: ( CONTINUED ) CONTINUED: ( 3 )
FUNERAL DIRECTOR: I'm sorry, sir- Hesher pushes the funeral director's arm away hard.
HESHER: You touch me again, I'll rip your fucking head off and skull fuck you. The funeral director backs off, scared and unsure of what to do.
DAD: OK, this is enough-
HESHER: Yeah, well why don't you shut up for a second and listen cause I'm going to say what I want to say and then you'll never see me again. Alright?! There is a beat of silence. No one knows what to say or do.
FUNERAL DIRECTOR: ( POLITELY )
HESHER: I told Grandma I was going on a walk with her and I'm gonna do it! Determined, Hesher leans down and unlocks the wheels of the coffin stand. Dad stands, not exactly sure what to do.
OFFICER: ( SMILING )
DAD: That's the plan. Hesher squirms and slurs.
HESHER: Get your hands off me, pig.
DAD: That's the plan. The cop gives them a casual wave as their car pulls away. TJ and Dad help Hesher across the lawn to the front door. We hold on the house for a beat.
TJ: Come in. Dad enters, he's clean-shaven now. He looks like a new man.
DAD: Morning, Teej.
TJ: Hey. Look at you.
DAD: I know. It feels weird. I can feel air on my face.
TJ: I hardly recognize you.
DAD: I think Hesher's gone.
TJ: Gone where?
DAD: I don't know. But I think you should come take a look at this.
THE END: Writers : Spencer Susser David Michod
