SHOOTING DRAFT: FADE IN: INT. ANTEROOM CLOSE SHOT SWITCHBOARD Two telephone operators sit at switchboard busy plugging in and out answering calls.
1ST OPERATOR: This is the Morning Post. The City Room? Just a moment, I'll connect
2ND OPERATOR: Morning Post. Sports Department? Just a moment
MED. SHOT: as a reporter comes out of the City Room, clanging gate to behind him. The office boy looks up.
OFFICE BOY: What's a seven-letter word for ?
REPORTER: Don't ask me! If I knew any seven- letter words, I'd be something better than a reporter!
REPORTER: Hey! Down! Down!
HILDY: ( with a smile ) Hello, Skinny. Remember me?
OFFICE BOY: ( looks up; then a glowing smile ) Hildy Johnson!
HILDY: ( to operator ) Hello, Maisie.
MAISIE: Hello Hildy! You coming back?
HILDY: No, just visiting. Tell me, is the lord of the universe in today?
MAISIE: He is and in a very bad humor. I think somebody stole one of his crown jewels. Shall I announce you?
HILDY: No, never mind I'll blow my own
HILDY: I won't be more than ten minutes, I promise you.
BRUCE: Even ten minutes is a long time to be away from you.
HILDY: What did you say, Bruce? I said uh I said even ten minutes is a long time to be away from you.
BRUCE: I said uh I said even ten minutes is a long time to be away from you.
HILDY: Don't be embarrassed, Bruce. I heard it, but I just wanted to hear it again. I can stand being spoiled a little. The gentleman I'm going to have a chat with did very little I'd like to spoil him just once. Sure you don't want me to go in with My job, Bruce. I started it and I'll finish it.
BRUCE: ( grimly ) I'd like to spoil him just once. Sure you don't want me to go in with My job, Bruce. I started it and I'll finish it.
HILDY: My job, Bruce. I started it and I'll finish it.
BRUCE: I suppose you're right but if it gets rough, remember I'm here.
HILDY: I'll come a-running, pardner.
HILDY: Thanks, Bruce.
HILDY: Hello, Beatrice. How's "Advice to the Lovelorn"?
BEATRICE: ( looking up ) Hildy! I'll be a monkey's uncle! What are you doing here?
HILDY: Point of information what does a girl say on meeting her divorced husband? OR:
BEATRICE: ( illustrating ) My advice is duck and cross with your right.
LOUIE: A little more round the chin, Boss.
MEDIUM SHOT: There is a sound of the door closing and Burns, without looking up, says:
BURNS: What do you want?
HILDY: Why, I'm surprised, Mr. Burns. That's no way to talk to your wife even if she's no longer your wife.
BURNS: ( grinning ) Hello, Hildy!
HILDY: Hello, Walter. Hi, Louie how's the slotmachine Oh, I ain't doing that any more. I'm retired. I'm one of you fellas now a newspaper man.
LOUIE: Oh, I ain't doing that any more. I'm retired. I'm one of you fellas now a newspaper man.
HILDY: Get going, Louie. I got company.
BURNS: Get going, Louie. I got company.
DUFFY: I'm busy, Duffy.
BURNS: I'm busy, Duffy.
DUFFY: Well, you're not too busy to know that the Governor hasn't signed that And that means Earl Williams dies tomorrow morning and makes a sucker out of us!
BURNS: And that means Earl Williams dies tomorrow morning and makes a sucker out of us!
DUFFY: And that means Earl Williams dies tomorrow morning and makes a sucker out of us!
BURNS: You're crazy. Where's Mac?
DUFFY: He's on my phone. He just called me.
BURNS: They can't do that to me!
BURNS: Give me that call on Duffy's wire! Hello Mac? Burns. Where's the Governor? What do you mean, you can't locate him? Mac, you know what this means. We're the only paper in town defending Earl Williams and if he hangs tomorrow we're washed up! Find the Governor and when you find him tell him we want that reprieve!. Tell him I elected him and I can have him impeached! Sure, you can do it, Mac I know you can. I always said you were the greatest reporter in the country and now you can prove it. Get going! Attaboy!
BURNS: ( to Duffy, sarcastically ) The greatest reporter in the country! First I gotta tell him what news to get! Gotta tell him how to get it then I gotta write it for him afterward! Now if you were a decent City Editor
DUFFY: Don't blame me. I'm City Editor in name only. You do all the hiring around here.
BURNS: Yeah! Well, I do the firing, too. Remember that, Duffy, and Keep a civil tongue in your head.
MEDIUM SHOT: I don't like to interfere with business, but would you boys pardon us while we have a little heart-to- heart talk?
HILDY: I don't like to interfere with business, but would you boys pardon us while we have a little heart-to- heart talk?
BURNS: Scram, you guys.
HILDY: You won't miss anything. You'll probably be able to hear him just as well outside as here.
HILDY: Mind if I sit down?
BURNS' VOICE: I said scram!
HILDY: May I have a cigarette, please?
HILDY: Thanks. A match? How long is it?
BURNS: How long is it?
HILDY: How long is what?
BURNS: You know what. How long since we've seen each other?
HILDY: Let's see. I was in Reno six weeks then Bermuda. Oh, about four months, I guess. Seems like yesterday to me.
CLOSEUP BURNS: ( slyly ) Maybe it was yesterday. Been seeing me in your dreams?
BURNS: ( slyly ) Maybe it was yesterday. Been seeing me in your dreams?
HILDY: ( casually ) No Mama doesn't dream about you any more, Walter. You wouldn't know the old girl now.
BURNS: ( with conviction ) Oh, yes I would. I'd know you any
HILDY: ( half-pityingly ) You're repeating yourself! That's the speech you made the night you ( she burlesques his fervor ) " any time any place ( growling ) I notice you still remember it.
BURNS: ( growling ) I notice you still remember it.
HILDY: I'll always remember it. If I hadn't remembered it, I wouldn't have divorced you.
BURNS: You know, Hildy, I sort of wish you hadn't done it.
HILDY: Done what?
BURNS: Divorced me. It sort of makes a fellow lose faith in himself. It almost gives him a feeling he wasn't wanted.
HILDY: Holy mackerel! Look, Walter, that's what divorces are for.
BURNS: Nonsense. You've got the old-fashioned idea that divorces are something that last forever till 'death us do part'. Why, a divorce doesn't mean anything today. It's only a few words mumbled over you by a judge. We've got something between us nothing can change.
HILDY: I suppose that's true in a way. I am fond of you, Walter. I often wish you weren't such a stinker.
BURNS: Now, that's a nice thing to say.
HILDY: Well, why did you promise me you wouldn't fight the divorce and then try and gum up the whole works?
BURNS: Well, I meant to let you go but, you know, you never miss the water till the well runs dry.
ANOTHER ANGLE: A fellow your age, hiring an airplane to write: 'Hildy: Don't be hasty remember my dimple. Walter.! It held things up twenty minutes while the Judge ran out to watch it.
HILDY: A fellow your age, hiring an airplane to write: 'Hildy: Don't be hasty remember my dimple. Walter.! It held things up twenty minutes while the Judge ran out to watch it.
BURNS: Well, I don't want to brag, but I've still got the dimple and in the same place I just acted like any husband who doesn't want to see his home broken up.
HILDY: What home?
WALTER: What home? Don't you remember the home I promised you?
HILDY: Oh, yes we were to have it right after our honeymoon honeymoon!
BURNS: Was it my fault? Did I know that coal mine was going to have another cave-in? I meant to be with you on our honeymoon, Hildy honest I All I know is that instead of two weeks in Atlantic City with my bridegroom, I spent two weeks in a coal mine with John Kruptzky age sixty-three getting food and air out of a tube! You don't deny that. Do you?
HILDY: All I know is that instead of two weeks in Atlantic City with my bridegroom, I spent two weeks in a coal mine with John Kruptzky age sixty-three getting food and air out of a tube! You don't deny that. Do you?
BURNS: Deny it! I'm proud of it! We beat the whole country on that story.
HILDY: Well, suppose we did? That isn't what I got married for. What's the good of Look, Walter, I came up here to tell you that you'll have to stop phoning me a dozen times a day sending twenty telegrams all the rest of it, because I'm
BURNS: Let's not fight, Hildy. Tell you what. You come back to work on the paper and if we find we can't get along in a friendly way, we'll get married again.
HILDY: I haven't any hard feelings.
BURNS: I haven't any hard feelings.
HILDY: Walter, you're wonderful in a loathesome sort of way. Now, would you mind keeping quiet long enough for me to tell you what I came up here for?
BURNS: ( rising, reaching for his hat ) Sure, come on. We'll have some lunch and you can tell me everything.
HILDY: ( also rising ) I have a lunch date. I just want
BURNS: You can break it, can't you?
HILDY: No, I can't.
BURNS: Sure you can. Come on.
DIFFERENT ANGLE: Don't tell me what to do! We're divorced I'm a free woman. You're not my husband and you're not my boss! And what's more, you're not going to be my boss.
HILDY: Don't tell me what to do! We're divorced I'm a free woman. You're not my husband and you're not my boss! And what's more, you're not going to be my boss.
BURNS: What do you mean by that?
HILDY: Just what I said. That's what I
BURNS: You mean you're not coming back to work here?
HILDY: That's the first time you've been right today. That's what I
BURNS: ( still interrupting ) You've had a better offer, eh?
HILDY: You bet I've got a better offer.
BURNS: Well, go on and take it. Work for somebody else! That's the gratitude I get for
HILDY: I know, Walter, but I
BURNS: ( ignoring her ) What were you when you came here five years ago? A little college girl from a School of Journalism! I took a little doll-faced mugg
HILDY: You wouldn't have taken me if I hadn't been doll-faced!
BURNS: Why should I? I thought it would be a novelty to have a face around here a man could look at without Listen, Walter
HILDY: Listen, Walter
BURNS: ( going right on ) I made a great reporter out of you, Hildy, but you won't be half as good on any other paper, and you know it. You need me and I need you and the paper needs both of us.
HILDY: Well, the paper'll have to learn to do without me. And so will you. It just didn't work out, Walter.
WIDER ANGLE: It would have worked if you'd been satisfied with just being editor and reporter. But no! You had to marry me and spoil everything.
BURNS: It would have worked if you'd been satisfied with just being editor and reporter. But no! You had to marry me and spoil everything.
HILDY: ( indignantly ) I wasn't satisfied! I suppose I proposed to you!
BURNS: Well, you practically did! Making goo-goo eyes at me for two years till I broke down. And I still claim I was tight the night I proposed. If you'd been a gentleman you'd have forgotten all about it. But not you!
HILDY: ( speechless ) You you ( to Hildy ) You're losing your eye. You used to be able to pitch better than that. ( he reaches for phone ) Hello. Yeah. What? Sweeney? Well, what can I do for you?
BURNS: ( to Hildy ) You're losing your eye. You used to be able to pitch better than that. ( he reaches for phone ) Hello. Yeah. What? Sweeney? Well, what can I do for you?
DUFFY: What's the matter with you? Are you drunk? This is Duffy, not Sweeney!
BURNS: Sweeney! You can't do that to me! Not today, of all days! Jumping Jehosophat! Oh, no, Sweeney. Well, I suppose so. All right. If you have to, you have to. How do you like that? Everything happens to me with 365 days in the year this has to be the day.
HILDY: What's the matter?
BURNS: Not yet. Might just as well be. The only man on the paper who can write and his wife picks this morning to have a baby!
HILDY: Not yet. Might just as well be. The only man on the paper who can write and his wife picks this morning to have a baby!
BURNS: Not yet. Might just as well be. The only man on the paper who can write and his wife picks this morning to have a baby!
HILDY: ( she laughs ) Well, after all, he didn't do it on purpose, did he?
BURNS: I don't care whether he did or not. He's supposed to be covering the Earl Williams case and there he is waiting at the hospital! Is there no sense of honor left in this country?
HILDY: ( practically ) Well, haven't you got anybody else?
BURNS: There's nobody else on the paper who can write! This'll break me, unless You've got to help me, Hildy.
HILDY: You've got to help me, Hildy.
BURNS: You've got to help me, Hildy.
HILDY: Keep away
BURNS: It'll bring us together again, Hildy just the way we used to be.
HILDY: That's what I'm afraid of. "Any time any place anywhere!"
BURNS: Don't mock, Hildy, this is bigger than anything that's happened to us. Don't do it for me! Do it for the Get away, Svengali.
HILDY: Get away, Svengali.
BURNS: If you won't do it for love, how about money? Forget the other offer and I'll raise you twenty-five bucks a week.
HILDY: Listen, you bumble-headed baboon
BURNS: All right thirty-five, and not a cent more!
HILDY: Please! Will you just
BURNS: Great grief! What's that other paper going to give you?
HILDY: I'm not working for any other paper!
BURNS: Oh! In that case, the raise is off and you go back to your old salary and like it. Trying to blackjack
HILDY: Look at this!
CLOSEUP HILDY: She gets glove off left hand and holds up an engagement ring for him to see.
HILDY: Do you see this? Do you know what an engagement ring is?
CLOSEUP BURNS: He looks at ring, swallows, then:
MED. SHOT: Burns and Hildy.
HILDY: I tried to tell you right away but you started reminiscing. I'm getting married, Walter, and also getting as far away from the newspaper business as I can get! I'm through.
BURNS: ( himself again ) Get married all you want to, Hildy, but you can't quit the newspaper You can't sell me that, Walter.
HILDY: You can't sell me that, Walter.
BURNS: Who says I can't? You're a newspaper That's why I'm quitting. I want to go some place where I can be a woman.
HILDY: That's why I'm quitting. I want to go some place where I can be a woman.
BURNS: I know you, Hildy, and I know what it would mean. It would kill you.
CLOSER SHOT: ( bitterly ) A journalist! Peeking through keyholes running after fire engines waking people up in the middle of the night to ask them if they think Hitler's going to start a war stealing pictures off old ladies of their daughters that got chased by apemen! I know all about reporters a lot of daffy buttinskies going around without a nickel in their pockets, and for what? So a million hired girls and motormen's wives will know what's going on! No, Walter, I'm Where'd you meet this man?
HILDY: ( bitterly ) A journalist! Peeking through keyholes running after fire engines waking people up in the middle of the night to ask them if they think Hitler's going to start a war stealing pictures off old ladies of their daughters that got chased by apemen! I know all about reporters a lot of daffy buttinskies going around without a nickel in their pockets, and for what? So a million hired girls and motormen's wives will know what's going on! No, Walter, I'm Where'd you meet this man?
BURNS: Where'd you meet this man?
HILDY: Bermuda. Rich, eh?
BURNS: Bermuda. Rich, eh?
HILDY: Not what you'd call rich. Makes about five thousand a year.
BURNS: What's his line?
HILDY: He's in the insurance business.
BURNS: ( looks up ) The insurance business?
HILDY: ( on the defensive ) It's a good, honest business, isn't Oh sure, it's honest. But somehow, I can't picture you with a guy who sells policies.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Oh sure, it's honest. But somehow, I can't picture you with a guy who sells policies.
BURNS: Oh sure, it's honest. But somehow, I can't picture you with a guy who sells policies.
HILDY: Well, I can, and I love it! He forgets the office when he's with me. He doesn't treat me like an errand-boy he treats me like a woman.
BURNS: He does, does he? How did I treat you like a water buffalo?
HILDY: I don't know about water buffaloes, but I know about him. He's kind and sweet and considerate. He wants a home and children.
BURNS: Say, sounds more like a guy I ought to marry. What's his name?
HILDY: Well, I'll give you a hint. By tomorrow they'll be calling me Mrs. Bruce Baldwin.
BURNS: Tomorrow? Tomorrow. as quick as The quicker the better. Well I finally got out what I came in to tell you. So long, Walter, and better luck next time.
HILDY: The quicker the better. Well I finally got out what I came in to tell you. So long, Walter, and better luck next time.
BURNS: ( taking her hand ) I wish you everything I couldn't give you, Hildy.
HILDY: Too bad I couldn't see this guy first. I'm pretty particular about whom my wife marries.
BURNS: Too bad I couldn't see this guy first. I'm pretty particular about whom my wife marries.
HILDY: ( laughing ) Well, he's waiting in the anteroom for me now.
BURNS: Say, could I meet him?
HILDY: Oh, better not, Walter. Wouldn't do any good.
BURNS: You're not afraid, are you?
HILDY: Afraid? I should say not!
BURNS: All right then, come on and let's see this paragon. Is he as good as you say?
HILDY: MED. SHOT OFFICE Burns has his hat. They start toward the door.
BURNS: Then what does he want with you?
HILDY: ( laughing ) Now you got me.
BURNS: Nothing personal. I was just asking.
BURNS: After all
HILDY: You wouldn't believe this, Walter, but Bruce holds the door open for No kidding?
BURNS: ( incredulous ) No kidding?
TRUCKING SHOT: as Hildy follows Burns through the City Room. This time, in contrast to Hildy's original walk through the room, the groups are silent as they watch the two.
HILDY: ( trying to keep pace ) And he takes his hat off when he's with a lady.
BURNS: ( over his shoulder ) What for?
HILDY: ( shouting ) And when he walks with a lady, he waits for her!
BURNS: ( stops ) Oh, I'm sorry.
BURNS: ( under his breath ) Have Duffy call me in the restaurant in twenty minutes.
HILDY: Allow me.
BURNS: ( walking right through )
BURNS: I can see right away my wife picked out the right husband for herself.
MESSENGER: There must be some mistake. I'm already married.
BURNS: ( you never saw a more surprised man ) Already married! ( turning to Hildy o.s. ) Hildy, why didn't you tell me?
CLOSEUP HILDY: She shakes her head at Burns' antics, but can't help smiling MEDIUM SHOT BURNS AND MESSENGER
BURNS: ( again seizing messenger's hand ) Congratulations again, Mr. Baldwin!
MESSENGER: But my name
BRUCE: ( as he enters scene ) Mr. Burns!
BURNS: Yeah? You'll have to excuse me I'm busy with Mr. Bruce Baldwin here. Just leave your card with the boy.
BURNS: I'm very sorry, but I'm busy! Look there's the boy. Take your card and leave it with him.
BRUCE: Mr. Burns
BURNS: ( wheeling around ) I've just told you I was busy with Mr. Bruce Baldwin!
BRUCE: I'm Bruce Baldwin!
MEDIUM SHOT: Burns, still pumping the dazed messenger's hand, stops at this, drops hand, and turns to Bruce:
BURNS: You're Bruce Baldwin?
BRUCE: ( accusing to messenger ) Then who are you?
BURNS: ( accusing to messenger ) Then who are you?
MESSENGER: ( falteringly ) My name's Pete Davis.
BURNS: Pete Davis! Well, Mr. Davis, this is no concern of yours and after this I'll thank you to keep out of my
CLOSEUP HILDY: She is beginning to get sore, but reluctantly again she is compelled to smile at Walter's behavior.
BURNS: ( reaches for Bruce's hand but grabs the umbrella and begins shaking the handle up and down ) This is a pleasure, Mr. Baldwin, and I'm sorry about the mistake.
BRUCE: ( he tries to shift the umbrella, calling Burns' attention to it, and offers his hand instead )
BURNS: Oh, I thought there was something funny. You see, Bruce, you don't mind if I call you Bruce, do you? After all, we're practically related
BRUCE: ( completely unnerved by this time, and you can't quite blame him ) Mr. well no no not at You see, my wife I mean, your wife that is, I mean Hildy had led me to expect that she was marrying a much older man.
BURNS: You see, my wife I mean, your wife that is, I mean Hildy had led me to expect that she was marrying a much older man.
BRUCE: ( this is the final crusher ) But I see, she didn't mean old in years. You always carry an umbrella, Well, er it looked a little cloudy this morning.
BURNS: But I see, she didn't mean old in years. You always carry an umbrella, Well, er it looked a little cloudy this morning.
BRUCE: Well, er it looked a little cloudy this morning.
BURNS: That's right. Rubbers, too, I hope? A man ought to be prepared for any emergency.
BURNS: ( taking Bruce's arm and leading him toward elevator ) Come on, Bruce.
BRUCE: ( going along, but worried ) Where are we going?
BURNS: Where are we going? I'm going to buy you two lunch didn't Hildy tell No she didn't.
BRUCE: ( a helpless look back at Hildy ) No she didn't.
BURNS: Just wanted to surprise you, I guess. After you, Bruce! Come on, Hildy, my treat!
HILDY: I suppose I can't call this off without creating a scene but remember, it's your last fling.
BURNS: ( hurt ) How do you like that? Here I am being nice to you and your sweet-heart and that's the thanks I get!
BURNS: ( very sweetly he almost sings it ) Oh after you, Hildy!
WAITER: Don't tell me it's you, Hildy!
HILDY: ( beaming at waiter ) Nobody else.
HILDY: How's everything, Gus?
GUS: I can't complain.
BURNS: ( studying menu ) Well, I can. I'm hungry. Roast beef sandwich rare. And some coffee.
GUS: Shall I put a little rum in the coffee? It's a nasty day.
BURNS: Good idea. How about you, Hildy?
HILDY: ( discarding menu ) Oh I'll take the same, I guess. And coffee.
GUS: Little rum in yours, too?
HILDY: I guess so.
HILDY: No just coffee, Gus.
GUS: ( crestfallen ) Just coffee. ( to Bruce ) And you, sir?
BRUCE: ( putting menu down ) Oh, I'll take the same, I guess. And a glass of milk.
GUS: ( incredulous ) ( thinks he hasn't heard ) ( shaking his head as he writes it down ) And don't put any rum in it, Gus.
BRUCE: ( thinks he hasn't heard ) ( shaking his head as he writes it down ) And don't put any rum in it, Gus.
GUS: ( shaking his head as he writes it down ) And don't put any rum in it, Gus.
BURNS: And don't put any rum in it, Gus.
BURNS: ( a sigh ) Well, so you're getting married tomorrow, eh? How does it feel, Bruce?
BRUCE: Feels awful good. Yes, sir we're taking the four o'clock train to Albany and tomorrow we'll be married.
BURNS: ( it's the Puritan in him ) Taking the train today and being married tomorrow?
BRUCE: ( rising to the bait ) Oh, it isn't like that.
HILDY: ( reassuring Mrs. Grundy ) It will be perfectly all right, Walter. Mother is coming with us on the train.
BURNS: Mother? But your mother
BRUCE: No. My mother.
BURNS: ( he gets it and underlines it ) Oh. Your mother well, of course, that relieves my mind.
HILDY: ( to Bruce ) Isn't it sweet of Walter still wanting to protect me?
BURNS: ( apparently taking this at face value ) I know I wasn't a good husband, Hildy, but you can always count on me.
BRUCE: ( a little cookily ) I don't think she'll need you very much I aim to do most of the protecting myself.
BURNS: Well, I'll tell you one thing, old man, she never looked at me the way she's looking at you.
HILDY: I might have, Walter, but you were never there.
BURNS: Anyway, I'm glad you two are going to be happy and have all the things I couldn't give her. You know, Hildy is about the best reporter in the country and that goes regardless of sex. But all she really ever wanted was a home.
BRUCE: Well, I'll try to give her one.
BURNS: I know you will, Bruce. Are you going to live with your mother?
BRUCE: Just for the first year.
BURNS: ( sighing ) That'll be nice. A home with mother. A real honeymoon. In Albany, too.
BRUCE: Mighty nice little town, Albany. They've got the State Capitol there, you know.
BURNS: Yes, I know. Hildy, will you ever forget the night you brought the Governor back to your hotel room and found me taking a bath? She didn't even know I was in town.
GUS: Well, here we are.
BURNS: ( trying to pick up again after a second ) How's business, Bruce?
BRUCE: Well, Albany's a mighty good insurance town. Most people there take it out pretty early in life.
BURNS: I don't blame them.
HILDY: Oh, I'm sorry, Gus! My foot must have slipped.
GUS: ( a pained expression belies his words ) That's all right.
BURNS: I sometimes wish I'd taken out insurance but, of course, now it doesn't matter. Still, I suppose it would have been the smart thing to Well, I honestly feel that way. I figure I'm in one line of business that really helps people. Of course, we don't help you much when you're alive but afterward that's what counts.
BRUCE: Well, I honestly feel that way. I figure I'm in one line of business that really helps people. Of course, we don't help you much when you're alive but afterward that's what counts.
BURNS: I see what you mean.
HILDY: Gus, this
GUS: ( winking ) Good coffee, isn't it?
BRUCE: You've forgotten my milk.
GUS: Oh. The milk. Yes.
BURNS: Here's luck to the bride and Thank you.
HILDY: ( lifts cup ) Thank you.
BRUCE: ( looking for something to respond with apologetically ) He hasn't brought my milk yet.
BUS BOY: They want you on the phone, Mr. Burns.
BURNS: They would!
BRUCE: ( looking after him ) You know, Hildy, he's not a bad ( looking at him maternally ) You're so nice, Bruce, you think everybody else is.
HILDY: ( looking at him maternally ) You're so nice, Bruce, you think everybody else is.
BRUCE: Oh, he's not the man for you. I can see that. But I sort of like him. Got a lot of charm.
HILDY: He comes by it naturally. His grandfather was a snake.
BRUCE: ( shaking his head ) If anybody had told me I'd be sitting at lunch with him but he swept me right off my feet.
HILDY: That's what he did to me. Swept me right off my feet and left me lying on the floor.
BURNS: Get this get Sweeney off that yarn and out of town on a two weeks' vacation and right away. All right, Duffy, keep your shirt on. Hildy's coming back. No. She doesn't know it yet. But she'll be there. I promise you, Duffy. And tell Louie to stick around.
GUS: Your milk, sir.
GUS: And I brought you another cup of coffee, Hildy. Thanks, Gus.
HILDY: Thanks, Gus.
BRUCE: Too hot?
HILDY: ( gasping for breath ) No. It's strong. ( quickly ) But I like it that way.
BRUCE: ( looking off ) Say, what's happened to Burns? He looks sunk, doesn't he?
HILDY: ( beaming ) He certainly hic does!
BRUCE: Anything the matter?
BURNS: Just Sweeney again. One of my best What now?
HILDY: What now?
BURNS: His wife had twins and he went out to celebrate and got as drunk as a lord. They can't even find him. I tell you, drink is the ruin of this nation.
HILDY: ( sipping hers ) You said it.
BURNS: So Sweeney gets twins and Earl Williams gets hanged tomorrow.
BRUCE: Just what is the lowdown on Williams?
BURNS: It's simple. A poor little dope who lost his job went berserk and shot a cop who was coming after him to quiet him down.
HILDY: If he's nuts, why doesn't the State just put him away?
BURNS: Because it happened to be a colored The colored vote happens to be very important to the Mayor of this town.
HILDY: ( for Bruce's benefit ) The colored vote happens to be very important to the Mayor of this town.
BURNS: Especially with an election coming up in a few days.
BRUCE: Are you sure Williams is not all All you've got to do is talk to him. But the Mayor would hang his own grandmother to be re-elected.
BURNS: All you've got to do is talk to him. But the Mayor would hang his own grandmother to be re-elected.
BRUCE: But couldn't you show the man wasn't You could run an interview that would prove it. Remember the interview I wrote with Jimmy Wellman? That saved his life.
BURNS: ( there's a sly expression on his face ) You could run an interview that would prove it. Remember the interview I wrote with Jimmy Wellman? That saved his life.
HILDY'S VOICE: You could run an interview that would prove it. Remember the interview I wrote with Jimmy Wellman? That saved his life.
BURNS: ( slapping hands together ) Yes, you could do it, Hildy. You could save that poor devil's life. You could but ( the enthusiasm dies away ) you're going away. I forgot.
THREE SHOT: How long would the interview take?
BRUCE: How long would the interview take?
BURNS: Oh an hour for the interview. Another hour to write it.
BRUCE: We could take the six o'clock train, Hildy. If it would save a man's life.
HILDY: No, Bruce, dear. Don't you see? This is a trick to get your sympathy. No, Walter, I've been waiting for something like this but I wasn't sure when you'd spring it. If you want to save Earl Williams' life, you can interview him yourself. You're still a good reporter. Bruce and I will be on that four o'clock train and thanks just the same.
BURNS: I'm an editor. I know what ought to be written, but I can't write it the way you could. It needs a woman's Why, Walter, you're getting poetic!
HILDY: Why, Walter, you're getting poetic!
BURNS: ( to Bruce ) You see what I had to put up with? She never trusted me! You argue with her otherwise you're going on a honeymoon with blood on your hands!
BURNS: How can you have any happiness after that? All through the years you'll remember that a man went to the gallows because you were too selfish to wait two hours! I tell you, Earl Williams' face will come between you on the train tonight and at the preacher's tomorrow and all the rest of your lives!
HILDY: ( breaking into applause ) What a performance! Bravo! Don't let him fool you, Bruce it's only an What do you mean, only an act? Haven't you got any feeling?
BURNS: What do you mean, only an act? Haven't you got any feeling?
HILDY: Well, it's either an act on your part or a miracle on Sweeney's.
BURNS: What do you mean?
HILDY: I happen to know Sweeney was married only three months ago. If he's got twins this morning, I claim it was done with mirrors.
BURNS: ( laughs, throws up his hands ) All right, Hildy, I'm licked. But I'll make you and Bruce a business We're not interested.
HILDY: We're not interested.
BURNS: ( to Bruce ) Maybe you'll be. You're a smart young man. You let Hildy do this story for me and you can write out a $100,000.00 insurance policy for me. What do you I don't use my wife for business purposes, Mr. Burns!
BRUCE: I don't use my wife for business purposes, Mr. Burns!
HILDY: Wait a minute, Bruce. What's commission on a $100,000.00 policy?
BRUCE: Well, at his age, twenty payment life, a little over a thousand And what's the matter with a thousand According to the budget, we laid out that's more than our food bill for a whole year. Listen, Bruce, I don't want Walter Burns to use me, but I'm perfectly willing to use him. How long will it take to get him examined?
HILDY: And what's the matter with a thousand According to the budget, we laid out that's more than our food bill for a whole year. Listen, Bruce, I don't want Walter Burns to use me, but I'm perfectly willing to use him. How long will it take to get him examined?
BRUCE: According to the budget, we laid out that's more than our food bill for a whole year. Listen, Bruce, I don't want Walter Burns to use me, but I'm perfectly willing to use him. How long will it take to get him examined?
HILDY: According to the budget, we laid out that's more than our food bill for a whole year. Listen, Bruce, I don't want Walter Burns to use me, but I'm perfectly willing to use him. How long will it take to get him examined?
BRUCE: I could get a company doctor in twenty Now you're talking!
BURNS: Now you're talking!
HILDY: ( turning on Burns ) You keep out of this. Bruce, suppose you examine Mr. Burns in his office. I'll get my bag and go over to the Press Room in the Criminal Courts Building. You phone me as soon as Mr. Burns has given you his check. Then I'll go get the interview and you phone Mother that we're taking the six o'clock train. ( back to Burns ) And no tricks, Walter!
BURNS: What tricks would I pull?
HILDY: Oh, nothing! Of course, you might cancel the check. Yes! Wait a minute! What would be his first payment on that policy?
BRUCE: About twenty-five hundred dollars.
HILDY: Better make that a certified check, What do you think I am a crook?
BURNS: ( indignantly ) What do you think I am a crook?
HILDY: Yes - and that's putting it mildly! No certified check no story Get me?
BURNS: All right. The check will be certified. Want my fingerprints?
HILDY: ( rising ) No thanks, I've still got those. Well, I'll step into some working clothes and hop over to the Press Room for the background on this yarn. It'll be kind of fun to see the boys again, too. Remember, Bruce, it must be certified.
BRUCE: All right, dear.
HILDY: Wait a minute, Bruce. Have you got that money?
BRUCE: ( feeling his pocket ) The five hundred? Sure.
HILDY: On second thought, would you let me have it? I'll get the tickets.
BRUCE: Believe me, Bruce, I know what I'm doing. He'd get you in a crap game
HILDY: Believe me, Bruce, I know what I'm doing. He'd get you in a crap game
BRUCE: But I don't gamble, Hilda!
HILDY: I know a lot of men who didn't do anything till they met Walter Burns. Please, dear.
BRUCE: ( reluctantly ) All right. ( he pulls out his wallet ) One two three four five. Five hundred. Be careful, honey.
HILDY: I'll be careful, darling. You be,
HILDY: So long, husbands.
BRUCE: ( smiling a little ) I never knew Hildy to be so determined You haven't seen anything yet.
BURNS: You haven't seen anything yet.
ENDICOTT: ( into phone ) Criminal Courts Press Room. This is Endicott. No, nothing new on the Williams case yet boss. Well, you bet I'm here plugging away every ( hangs up and studies his cards ) Up a dime. ( dropping his cards ) By me.
MURPHY: ( dropping his cards ) By me.
WILSON: ( also dropping )
MCCUE: ( reluctantly ) I'll call.
ENDICOTT: Three sixes. Is that any good?
HILDY'S VOICE: It sure looks good from here.
HILDY: One at a time, boys.
HILDY: No, I'm not back for good. I'm just covering the Earl Williams story for Mr. Sweeney who had a sudden attack of something but will be all right by tomorrow. No, I haven't made up with Walter Burns far from it! As a matter of fact, I'm leaving tonight for Albany and I'll be married tomorrow morning. The lucky man is Mr. Bruce Baldwin, a gentleman in the insurance business and when I say gentleman, I mean gentleman! Are there any other questions?
ENDICOTT: ( grinning ) Well, that about covers everything.
HILDY: Good. Now I want to ask you fellows a couple of questions. Did Earl Williams know what he was doing when he fired that gun?
MURPHY: If you ask us, no. If you ask the state alienists, the answer is yes.
MCCUE: It's a simple story. Earl Williams works for the E.J. McClosky Manufacturing Company as a bookkeeper for fourteen years. He starts in at twenty dollars a week and gradually works his way up to twenty-two fifty. A year ago the McClosky Company goes out of business and Williams loses his job. Take it away, Fred Wilson!
WILSON: Well Williams goes a little balmy and begins making speeches on a plan he's got to save the world. Only he makes his speeches, usually, on a very busy street and neglects to get a license for it. Well, the cops let him alone as much as they can because he's harmless and they're kinda sorry for him. But one day he decides to hold a meeting right in the middle of a Veteran's Parade and the cops chase him. He gets scared and goes into hiding. Come in, Dave Schwartz.
SCHWARTZ: His Honor, the Mayor, now comes out with a statement that Earl Williams is a dangerous character in the employ of two or three foreign governments and the police are going to get him dead or alive. Somebody sends out a tip that this guy is hiding in Molly Malloy's joint. And this colored policeman, Daniels, goes over to pick Williams up. Williams has read the papers, thinks the cop is going to kill him and shoots first. That is all.
HILDY: Thanks, boys. That's all I want to
ENDICOTT: Say, that's old Prissy Bensinger's I know, I just want to give him a
HILDY: I know, I just want to give him a
HILDY: All right, boys, now that everything is settled, deal me in.
HILDY: ( into phone ) Hello, this is Hildy Johnson. Get me Walter Burns. ( she studies her cards then, into phone ) Hello, Walter. How's the old double-
BURNS: Hello, my fine-feathered friend. Thought I might be hearing from you. What have you got to report?
BURNS: ( into phone ) Going all right, eh?
DOCTOR: ( nodding )
BURNS: ( putting hand over mouthpiece of phone ) Doctor, will you please keep quiet a minute? How do you expect me to get any work done?
DOCTOR: How do you expect me to get anywhere if you're going to keep on that phone? If you'll just give me two minutes Well, they haven't finished with me yet but I'm hoping to get my shirt back. Oh, no. I'm in the pink of condition. They found two new dimples.
BURNS: ( into phone ) Well, they haven't finished with me yet but I'm hoping to get my shirt back. Oh, no. I'm in the pink of condition. They found two new dimples.
TELEPHONE: cards in her other hand.
HILDY: How about that check? All right, Mr. Burns, but remember, no checkee no story. Well, as soon as they decide whether you live or not will you have that new man of mine call me up? Yes, sir. All right, boys. Up a dime.
ENDICOTT'S VOICE: Right back at you.
MED. SHOT: ( dropping his cards ) You fight it cut.
MCCUE: ( dropping his cards ) You fight it cut.
HILDY: And up a dime.
ENDICOTT: ( studying a second ) I call. What you got?
HILDY: ( displaying her cards ) Three bullets! Any good?
ENDICOTT: ( throwing his cards away ) Beats king up.
MCCUE: What are you going to do with all that money, Hildy?
WILSON: Yeah you can't spend it in Albany.
HILDY: Oh, I'll think of something.
MED. SHOT: taking in door and including group. Bensinger, another reporter, comes in from the corridor. He stands out from the others because of his tidy appearance, and carries a book under his arm.
MURPHY: Hello, Harvard! Got anything new on the hanging?
BENSINGER: ( cockily ) Why don't you fellows get your own Can't you say 'hello' to a fellow?
HILDY: Can't you say 'hello' to a fellow?
BENSINGER: He comes over to shake hands.
BENSINGER: Are you back?
HILDY: No, just a farewell appearance, batting for Sweeney. I'm going into business for myself.
BENSINGER: What doing?
HILDY: I'm getting married tomorrow.
BENSINGER: Well, congratulations! Good luck!
ENDICOTT: Why don't you use him for a bridesmaid, Hildy?
SCHWARTZ: Come on, Hildy, your deal.
BENSINGER: Say, who put these stockings in my This is Bensinger. I just saw the Sheriff. He won't move the hanging up a minute. All right, I'll talk to him again, but it's no use. The execution is set for seven in the morning. Get me a rewrite man.
BENSINGER: ( makes a gesture of disgust and picks up telephone ) This is Bensinger. I just saw the Sheriff. He won't move the hanging up a minute. All right, I'll talk to him again, but it's no use. The execution is set for seven in the morning. Get me a rewrite man.
ENDICOTT: Why can't they hang that guy at a reasonable hour, so we can get some Jake, new lead on the hanging. This new alienist from New York Dr. Max J. Egelhoffer is going to interview Williams in about half an hour in the Sheriff's office.
BENSINGER: ( into phone ) Jake, new lead on the hanging. This new alienist from New York Dr. Max J. Egelhoffer is going to interview Williams in about half an hour in the Sheriff's office.
MURPHY: That must be the tenth alienist they've had on Williams. Even if he wasn't crazy before, he would be after ten of those babies got through psychoanalyzing him. Gimme the desk.
ENDICOTT: This Egelhoffer's pretty good.
MURPHY: Yeah? What did he ever do for his Don't you remember? He's the guy went to Washington to interview the Brain Trust, and gave out a statement that they were all sane. It created a sensation!
ENDICOTT: Don't you remember? He's the guy went to Washington to interview the Brain Trust, and gave out a statement that they were all sane. It created a sensation!
BENSINGER: ( into phone ) Here's the situation on the eve of the hanging:
MURPHY: ( into phone ) This is Murphy. More slop on the ( into phone ) A double guard's been thrown around the jail, municipal buildings, railroad terminals, and elevated stations to prepare for the expected general uprising of radicals at the hour of execution.
BENSINGER: ( into phone ) A double guard's been thrown around the jail, municipal buildings, railroad terminals, and elevated stations to prepare for the expected general uprising of radicals at the hour of execution.
MURPHY: ( into phone ) Ready? The Sheriff's just put two hundred more relatives on the payroll to protect the city against the Red Army which is leaving Moscow in a couple of minutes. ( consults his hand ) Up a dime.
BENSINGER: ( into phone ) The Sheriff has just received four more letters threatening his life, but he says nothing can interfere with his duty.
MURPHY: ( into phone ) And to prove to the voters that the Red Menace is on the level, the Sheriff has written himself four more letters, threatening his life. I know he wrote 'em on account of the misspellings.
ENDICOTT: Trouble is, when the Red Menace shows up the Sheriff will still be crying What have you got, Hildy?
MURPHY: What have you got, Hildy?
HILDY: Kings and sixes.
MURPHY: ( throwing down ) That's good.
HILDY: ( sweeping coins in ) 'Kings and sixes The pot affixes'. Poetry. I learned that at my grandma's That's why I keep losing. My grandma was a modest woman nobody ever saw her knees, not even my grandpop.
WILSON: That's why I keep losing. My grandma was a modest woman nobody ever saw her knees, not even my grandpop.
BRUCE: I don't know. This makes me feel Why shouldn't I make Hildy my beneficiary? I've got nobody else to leave it to.
TWO SHOT: Why shouldn't I make Hildy my beneficiary? I've got nobody else to leave it to.
BURNS: Why shouldn't I make Hildy my beneficiary? I've got nobody else to leave it to.
BRUCE: I feel I ought to take care of her.
BURNS: Well, you'll take care of her. After all, if that doctor's right, I'm going to live for a long time yet. Look, Bruce, this is a debt of honor. I was a very bad husband: Hildy could have got a lot of alimony if she'd wanted to, but she wouldn't take any. She had it coming to her, but she was too independent.
BRUCE: Well, I'm independent, too.
BURNS: Figure it this way: I ought to be good for twenty-five years. By that time, you'll probably have made enough so that the money won't mean anything. But suppose you haven't made good don't you think Hildy's entitled to a quiet old age without any worries?
BRUCE: Well, of course, if you put it that And remember this, Bruce! I love her, too.
BURNS: ( everything he has on the ball ) And remember this, Bruce! I love her, too.
BRUCE: I'm beginning to realize that.
BURNS: And the beauty of it is she'll never have to know 'till I've passed on. Maybe she'll think kindly of me - after I'm gone.
BRUCE: ( a lump in his throat ) Gee, you almost make me feel like a heel coming between you.
BURNS: No, Bruce, you didn't come between us. It was all over for her before you came on the scene. For me it'll never be over.
MED. SHOT: as Duffy comes into the room. He advances toward the desk.
DUFFY: ( placing check on desk ) Here's that certified check, Walter. ( sotto voce ) I drew out my wife's savings, and if this isn't back by 5:30 I'm a ruined ( also sotto voce ) Don't worry, Duffy, you'll have it back by five. ( louder ) Thanks, Duffy. Stick around. ( picking up check he rises )
BURNS: ( also sotto voce ) Don't worry, Duffy, you'll have it back by five. ( louder ) Thanks, Duffy. Stick around. ( picking up check he rises )
BURNS: Well, Bruce, here you are certified and everything.
BRUCE: ( also rising ) Certified! I'm afraid Hildy'd feel ashamed to think she hadn't trusted
CLOSEUP DUFFY: He reacts to this sweetly solemn thought.
BRUCE: Well, she'll know some day.
BURNS: That's all I ask. Oh, wait a minute.
BURNS: Don't want to forget this, you know. Might start to rain again.
BRUCE: Thanks. I'll phone Hildy right away to get that story.
BURNS: Well, anyway, I know Hildy's getting a good man.
BRUCE: ( embarrassed ) Thanks a lot.
BURNS: Well, I got to get back. You can find your way out, can't you?
BRUCE: Oh, sure. Well, thanks for everything.
BURNS: Don't thank me. I should thank you. So long.
BRUCE: So long.
REVERSE ANGLE: Bruce is going out, his back toward Camera. Burns watches. Louis comes between Burns and Bruce and follows Bruce out as we see Bruce going toward outer door.
CLOSEUP BURNS: He rubs his hands in glee as he starts back for his office.
HILDY: I don't know why you boys are so good to me.
MCCUE: ( throwing cards down ) Your poker's improved a lot, Hildy. Lend me two bucks, will you?
HILDY: Nothing doing. I'm playing for keeps.
BENSINGER: I wish they'd stop that practicing.
HILDY: ( turns away ) Well, anyhow, I won't be covering stuff like this any more.
SCHWARTZ: What's the matter? Getting yellow?
MED. SHOT: A phone rings. McCue answers it.
MCCUE: For you, Hildy.
HILDY: Hildy Johnson. Oh, hello, Bruce. Have you got it? Is it certified?
BRUCE: Certified and everything. Got it right here in my wallet. What? No, he's not here I'm in a phone booth.
MCCUE: Certified, eh? Who is it your But, Bruce, don't keep it in your wallet!. Well, you see there's an old newspaper superstition that the first big check you get you you put in the lining of your hat. That brings you good luck for ten years.
HILDY: ( in phone ) But, Bruce, don't keep it in your wallet!. Well, you see ( she is thinking rapidly ) there's an old newspaper superstition that the first big check you get you you put in the lining of your hat. That brings you good luck for ten years.
MCCUE: Say, I've been a reporter twenty years and never heard any hooey like that. Where'd you get it?
HILDY: ( to McCue ) I made it up just now, and who's asking you? ( into phone ) I know it's silly, honey, but do it for me, won't you?. Yes, right All right. Wait a minute.
BRUCE: All right. Wait a minute.
BRUCE: All right. I've done it. Now, are you satisfied?
HILDY: Fine. And here's a kiss for you.
HILDY: Now, darling, you go back to the hotel and pack and you and Mother pick me up here about half-past five. Goodbye, dear.
COOLEY: Hello, Hildy! What are you doing around here?
HILDY: I want to interview Earl Williams, Warden. How about a little service?
COOLEY: No more interviews. Besides, a doctor's coming over.
HILDY: Say, isn't this your twenty dollars?
COOLEY: ( looks at bill eagerly ) I think it is.
HILDY: ( handing it over ) I thought so. Come on, I'm in a hurry.
THE CROWD: The cop comes in and breaks ranks. He pushes his way toward center and looks down.
MED. SHOT: What's going on?
COP: What's going on?
LOUIS: This guy stole my watch.
COP: ( lugging them both to feet ) Have you got his watch?
BRUCE: He's crazy. I haven't any watch.
LOUIS: I saw him. He put it in his back I haven't got
BRUCE: I haven't got
COP: Wait a minute.
COP: ( to Louis ) Is this yours?
LOUIS: Yeah! That's it!
COP: What about it?
BRUCE: I never saw it before.
COP: Come on!
COP: ( to mob ) Beat it!
BRUCE: My hat!
COP: Get his hat, somebody.
WILLIAMS: I couldn't plead insanity, because you see I'm just as sane as anybody You didn't mean to kill that Of course not. I couldn't kill anybody it's against everything I've ever stood for. They know it was an accident. They're not hanging me for that they're hanging me for my What are your beliefs, Earl?
HILDY: ( puzzled and worried ) You didn't mean to kill that Of course not. I couldn't kill anybody it's against everything I've ever stood for. They know it was an accident. They're not hanging me for that they're hanging me for my What are your beliefs, Earl?
WILLIAMS: Of course not. I couldn't kill anybody it's against everything I've ever stood for. They know it was an accident. They're not hanging me for that they're hanging me for my What are your beliefs, Earl?
HILDY: What are your beliefs, Earl?
WILLIAMS: They're very simple. I believe in the Golden Rule. I'm not the first man to die for preaching it. But if they would only listen to it we could have a fine, decent world instead of this mass of hate that makes man do such cruel things.
HILDY: How would you go about applying the Golden Rule, Earl?
WILLIAMS: I'd do away with the profit system and have production for use only. There's enough food and clothing and shelter for everybody if we'd use some sense.
HILDY: ( writing ) "Production for use only." Well, maybe that's the answer.
WILLIAMS: It's the only answer. Everything has a use and if we let it be used for its purpose, we could solve all our problems. Food was meant to be eaten, not stored away in restaurants while poor people starved; clothing was meant to be worn, not piled up in stores while people went naked. Doesn't that make sense?
CLOSEUP HILDY: ( thoughtfully ) Yes, that makes a lot of sense, Earl.
HILDY: ( thoughtfully ) Yes, that makes a lot of sense, Earl.
WILLIAM'S VOICE: Just use things for what they were meant, that's all.
HILDY: ( she studies him a moment ) What's the purpose of a gun, Earl?
CLOSEUP WILLIAMS: A gun? Why to shoot, of course.
WILLIAMS: A gun? Why to shoot, of course.
HILDY: Is that how you came to shoot the Sure. You see, I'd never had a gun in my hand before and I didn't know what to do with it. Well, when I get stuck, I know that there's an answer for everything in production for use. So it came to me in a flash: what's a gun for? To shoot! So I shot. Simple isn't it?
WILLIAMS: Sure. You see, I'd never had a gun in my hand before and I didn't know what to do with it. Well, when I get stuck, I know that there's an answer for everything in production for use. So it came to me in a flash: what's a gun for? To shoot! So I shot. Simple isn't it?
HILDY: ( writing ) Very simple, Earl.
WILLIAMS: There's nothing crazy about that, is No, Earl, not at all. Who sent you the flowers, Earl?
HILDY: No, Earl, not at all. Who sent you the flowers, Earl?
WILLIAMS: ( reverently ) Miss Mollie Malloy. She's a wonderful ( pointing to picture pinned on wall ) Isn't that her picture?
HILDY: ( pointing to picture pinned on wall ) Isn't that her picture?
WILLIAMS: ( turning toward it ) Yes. Isn't she beautiful?
HILDY'S VOICE: If you should be pardoned, are you figuring on marrying Mollie?
EARL'S VOICE: Oh, no, she's much too good for me.
HARTMAN'S VOICE: How'd you get in here?
MEDIUM SHOT: Sheriff Hartman has come into the scene. Hildy turns toward
HILDY: Same way you did. Through that gate.
HARTMAN: I gave strict orders that nobody was to interview Williams without my All right, then, I'll just run the story that Sheriff Hartman is afraid to let reporters interview his prisoner. Of course, with election coming, that might do you a lot of harm, but just as you say.
HILDY: All right, then, I'll just run the story that Sheriff Hartman is afraid to let reporters interview his prisoner. Of course, with election coming, that might do you a lot of harm, but just as you say.
HARTMAN: Now, wait a minute! I'm not afraid of anything. What were you going to write about Williams?
HILDY: Oh, nothing much. Just that the state had proved he was sane and he admits it himself. If you don't want me to run it
HARTMAN: ( beaming ) Oh, that'll be all right, Hildy. Go ahead, run it. And you can say I treated him well, too. ( turning toward Williams ) 'Lo, Earl. How are you feeling?
WILLIAMS: Fine, thanks, Sheriff.
HARTMAN: That's good, Earl. Oh, they've got another alienist to see you. He ought to be here any minute. Don't go to sleep, will you?
WILLIAMS: I won't.
HARTMAN: ( to Hildy ) Hildy, how'd you like a couple of tickets for the hanging?
HILDY: ( in a low voice so Williams won't overhear ) No, thanks Sheriff. I'm leaving town ( just as loud as ever ) You ought to stay over. You always wrote a good hanging story, Hildy.
HARTMAN: ( just as loud as ever ) You ought to stay over. You always wrote a good hanging story, Hildy.
HILDY: That's awful kind of you, Sheriff. I've got to get started on my interview. See you later.
WILLIAMS: Don't forget about production for I won't, Earl.
HILDY: I won't, Earl.
MURPHY: ( raking in a pot ) Well, a guy can win when Hildy ain't Who's this guy she's gonna marry?
ENDICOTT: Who's this guy she's gonna marry?
WILSON: Baldwin his name is.
SCHWARTZ: I give that marriage six months.
MCCUE: Hildy won't be able to stay away from a paper any longer than that. Did you see her eyes light up when she came in here? Like an old fire She says she's gonna write fiction.
SCHWARTZ: Hildy won't be able to stay away from a paper any longer than that. Did you see her eyes light up when she came in here? Like an old fire She says she's gonna write fiction.
MURPHY: She says she's gonna write fiction.
ENDICOTT: Well, if she's gonna write fiction, there's nothing like being a reporter.
SCHWARTZ: I'll give ten to five that marriage won't last six months. Hildy's a newspaper man. She's got headlines in her veins the way we all have or we'd be out of these lousy jobs. Well, well Miss Mollie Malloy.
MCCUE: Well, well Miss Mollie Malloy.
MURPHY: Hello, Mollie.
WILSON: How's tricks, Mollie?
MOLLIE: I've been lookin' for you tramps.
ENDICOTT: Kid, those were pretty roses you sent Earl. What do you want done with them tomorrow morning?
MOLLIE: ( tensely ) A lot of wise guys, ain't you?
SCHWARTZ: ( uncomfortably ) You're breaking up the game, Mollie. What do you want?
MOLLIE: I want to tell you what I think of you all of you.
MURPHY: Keep your shirt on.
MOLLIE: ( to Murphy ) If you was worth breaking my fingers on, I'd tear your face wide open.
MURPHY: What are you sore about, sweetheart? Wasn't that a swell story we gave You crumbs have been making a fool out of me long enough!
MOLLIE: You crumbs have been making a fool out of me long enough!
BENSINGER: ( rising and coming over ) She oughtn't be allowed in here!
CLOSEUP MOLLIE: ( flaring ) I never said I loved Earl Williams and was willing to marry him on the gallows! You made that up! And about my being his soul-mate and having a love-nest with him.
MOLLIE: ( flaring ) I never said I loved Earl Williams and was willing to marry him on the gallows! You made that up! And about my being his soul-mate and having a love-nest with him.
ENDICOTT: You've been sucking around that cuckoo ever since he's been in the death- house. Everybody knows you're his
CLOSEUP MOLLIE: She blows up.
MOLLIE: That's a lie! I met Mr. Williams just once in my life when he was wandering around in the rain without his hat and coat on, like a sick dog, the day before the shooting. I went up to him like any human being would and I asked him what was the matter, and he told me about being fired after working at the same place for fourteen years, and I brought him up to my room because it was warm there.
MURPHY'S VOICE: Aw, put it on a phonograph!
MOLLIE: Just because you want to fill your lying paper with a lot of dirty scandal, you got to crucify him and make a stooge out of me!
ENDICOTT: ( to Mollie ) Got a match?
MOLLIE: ( heedless ) I tell you he just sat there talking to me all night. And never once laid a hand on me. In the morning he went away, and I never saw him again till that day at the trial!
CLOSEUP MOLLIE: She lashes out at them.
MOLLIE: Go on, laugh! I'd like to know some curses bad enough for your greasy souls! Sure, I was his witness the only one he had. Yes me cheap little Mollie Malloy! I'm everything the District Attorney said I was. And still I was the only one with guts enough to stand up for him! I told the truth and the District Attorney knows it! That's why you're persecutin' me! Because Earl Williams treated me decent and not like an animal and I said so!
MEDIUM SHOT: ( finally irritated ) Go into your dance! This is the Press Room. We're busy.
MURPHY: ( finally irritated ) Go into your dance! This is the Press Room. We're busy.
WILSON: Why don't you go and see your boy- But you'll have to hurry up he left a call for seven A.M.
ENDICOTT: ( winks at the others ) But you'll have to hurry up he left a call for seven A.M.
MOLLIE: ( through her teeth ) It's a wonder a bolt of lightning don't come down and strike you all
ENDICOTT: ( suddenly uncomfortable ) Don't get hysterical, kid.
MOLLIE: ( begins to sob ) Shame on you!
MOLLIE: ( hysterically ) A poor little fellow that never meant nobody no harm! Sitting there alone this minute with the Angel of Death beside him, and you cracking jokes!
CLOSEUP HILDY: typing away furiously, regardless of this. She ends a page. The sound of Mollie sobbing comes over the scene. Hildy inserts a fresh page.
MURPHY'S VOICE: If you don't shut up, we'll give you something to cry about!
HILDY: ( gently ) Come on, Mollie. This is no place for you. ( she leads Mollie toward door )
MOLLIE: They're not human!
HILDY: They're newspaper men, Mollie. They can't help themselves. The Lord made them that way.
MOLLIE: ( one look back as Hildy leads her out door ) It wasn't the Lord! It was the devil! ( picking up cards ) You guys wanna play some more poker?
MURPHY: ( picking up cards ) You guys wanna play some more poker?
ENDICOTT: What's the use? I can't win a pot.
WILSON: ( into phone ) Who? Hildy Johnson? She just stepped out. She'll be back in a second. Who? Oh, Mr. Baldwin. Well, if you'll hang on a minute, she ought to be right in. All right. ( he covers transmitter )
WILSON: ( to others ) Baldwin. The blushing bridegroom What's he want?
SCHWARTZ: What's he want?
WILSON: Wants Hildy and sounds very
HILDY: Gentlemen of the Press! Always picking on somebody who can't defend himself the littler the better.
WILSON: Phone for you, Hildy.
HILDY: ( going toward it ) Who is it?
WILSON: Oh, some insurance man. Are you in?
HILDY: ( grabbing phone ) Give me that!
CLOSEUP HILDY: ( into phone ) Hello! Hello! Bruce?. what?. Where are you?. You're where?. How did that happen?. ( she listens unbelievingly a second ) I'll be right over!
HILDY: ( into phone ) Hello! Hello! Bruce?. what?. Where are you?. You're where?. How did that happen?. ( she listens unbelievingly a second ) I'll be right over!
MED. SHOT: as Hildy hangs up and darts out of room. The others watch in
MURPHY: Boy, did you see her go?
ENDICOTT: Lioness Rushes to Defense of Cub.
WILSON: I told you Baldwin was in trouble.
MCCUE: Probably went out without his hankie and wants Mamma to wipe his nose.
SCHWARTZ: I still give that marriage six months.
BENSINGER: Hello, baby, get me the Sheriff's offico, will you. Hello, Sheriff Hartman?. This is Bensinger. How about that favor? You know what: once and for all, will you hang this guy at five A.M. instead of seven? It won't hurt you and we can make the City Edition.
HARTMAN: ( indignantly ) Once and for all, I'm not going to hang anybody except at the legal hour. What? Don't threaten me, Bensinger! I'm not afraid of any newspapers. Yeah?. Oh, shut up! ( he hangs up; an afterthought he calls up operator ) And, operator, I told you not to disturb me! I don't care who calls I don't want to be disturbed again till I tell you! ( he hangs up turns to somebody o.s. and speaks ) How do you like that, Dr. Egelhoffer? Want me to hang williams at their The newspapers! Sheriff, they're the scum of modern civilization.
EGELHOFFER: The newspapers! Sheriff, they're the scum of modern civilization.
HARTMAN: You said it!
EGELHOFFER: They're always after me for Me, too.
HARTMAN: Me, too.
EGELHOFFER: ( fencing ) Of course, I sort of promised them I would give out a statement when I got through here. You don't mind?
HARTMAN: ( not liking it ) Well, I don't know if that's ethical. You see, all statements are supposed to come from me.
EGELHOFFER: ( he'll bargain ) We'll have to satisfy them. What would you say to giving them a joint interview? I could give them some of the psychological aspects of the case and you could give them the legal aspects.
HARTMAN: ( he buys ) A joint interview, eh? That might be all right. We could have our pictures taken together, Doctor.
EGELHOFFER: Yes, shaking hands. I don't take a very good picture, though.
HARTMAN: It doesn't matter. The publicity's the main thing.
EGELHOFFER: Yes, I suppose so. It all helps.
WILLIAMS: ( just a spectator up to now ) Are you gentlemen all through with Oh, I'm sorry. I forgot you were here. No, Mr. Williams, we still have some questions for you. Sheriff, will you kindly extinguish the lights?
EGELHOFFER: Oh, I'm sorry. I forgot you were here. No, Mr. Williams, we still have some questions for you. Sheriff, will you kindly extinguish the lights?
EGELHOFFER: You know you are to be executed, Mr. Williams. Who do you feel is responsible for that?
WILLIAMS: The system. But I'm not afraid to die, Doctor. I'm dying for what I I see. You realize, however, that you committed a crime?
EGELHOFFER: I see. You realize, however, that you committed a crime?
CLOSEUP WILLIAMS: In a legal sense, yes. But not actually. Actually, I'm innocent. I didn't do anything.
WILLIAMS: In a legal sense, yes. But not actually. Actually, I'm innocent. I didn't do anything.
BRUCE: I'm innocent. I didn't do anything. I never stole a watch in my life.
HILDY: I know you didn't, Bruce.
HILDY: ( to lieutenant ) Let him out of here, Lieutenant.
LIEUTENANT: ( conciliatingly ) But, Hildy, I can't. He's accused of stealing a watch. And they found the watch on him.
HILDY: And who accused him? Diamond Louis! One of the worst crooks in town! Why don't you arrest Louis instead of innocent people that he frames?
LIEUTENANT: Now, Hildy
HILDY: Don't Hildy me! Are you going to let him out?
LIEUTENANT: I can't.
HILDY: All right. You can't. But tomorrow the Post will run the story of that roulette game on 43rd Street that your brother-in-law runs. And we'll print that you get five hundred a month for forgetting about it!
LIEUTENANT: Now, Hildy, don't be hasty! I can't let him out.
HILDY: You can let him out on bail, can't Five hundred dollars.
LIEUTENANT: Five hundred dollars.
HILDY: You'll take fifty and like it!
LIEUTENANT: ( wavers ) Well, all right. But I'm liable to get into a jam.
HILDY: You'll get into a worse one if you
HILDY: What's the matter?
BRUCE: I lost my wallet.
HILDY: ( stops ) The check, Bruce!
BRUCE: That's right here. Gee, it was lucky your telling me about that old newspaper superstition.
HILDY: ( taking check and putting it away ) Yes, wasn't it?
BRUCE: I can't imagine who did it. I can't think of any enemies I have.
HILDY: ( looking at him fondly ) I'm sure you haven't any.
BRUCE: For a minute, I thought maybe Walter Burns was at the back of it. But then I realized he couldn't have Oh, no. How could you ever think of such a thing?
HILDY: Oh, no. How could you ever think of such a thing?
BRUCE: Oh, I realized right away. He's really a very nice fellow, Hildy I found that out.
HILDY: Yes, he is. Look, Bruce, we're taking that next train and when I say next train, this time I mean it!
BRUCE: Did you finish the interview?
HILDY: ( to driver ) The Criminal Courts Building.
HILDY: ( to Bruce ) No but I'm sure it'll be all right with Walter.
BRUCE: But, gee, Hildy he gave us that insurance business and you promised
HILDY: Well, the story's practically finished. I'll just go upstairs and send it over with a messenger.
HILDY: No, you stay here. I'm not taking any more chances. I'll be down in three minutes and don't you dare
SCHWARTZ: ( reading ) "But the State has a production for use plan, too. It has a gallows and at seven A.M., unless a miracle occurs, that gallows will be used to separate the soul of Earl Williams from his body. And out of Molly Malloy's life will go the one kindly soul she ever knew " ( he stops ) That's as far as Hildy got. But, I ask you, can that girl write an I don't think it's very ethical reading other people's stuff.
BENSINGER: I don't think it's very ethical reading other people's stuff.
ENDICOTT: Don't give us that ethics stuff. You'll be the only one who'll swipe any of it.
SCHWARTZ: I still say anybody that writes like that ain't going to give it up permanently to sew sox for a guy in the insurance business. Now I give that marriage three months and I'm laying three to one. Any takers?
HILDY'S VOICE: I'll take that bet.
HILDY: ( going to her phone ) It's getting so a girl can't step out of the room without being discussed by a bunch of old ladies. ( into phone; her voice assumes a silken quality ) Hello, Post. Mr. Walter Burns, ( embarrassed ) Well, Hildy, we were only saying that a swell reporter like you wouldn't give this up so easily.
SCHWARTZ: ( embarrassed ) Well, Hildy, we were only saying that a swell reporter like you wouldn't give this up so easily.
HILDY: ( into phone ) This is Hildy Johnson. ( to Schwartz ) Oh, I can give it up all right. Without a single quiver. I'm going to live like a human being not like you rats. ( into phone ) Oh, is that you, Walter dear? Oh, I didn't mean "dear." That was just habit, I guess. Oh, be yourself, Walter. I've got some news for you. Yes, I got the interview, but I've got some news that's more important.
HILDY: Better get a pencil out and write it down. All ready? Get this, you double-crossing chimpanzee, there ain't gonna be any interview and there ain't gonna be any story. Huh? That certified check of yours is leaving with me in twenty minutes. And if I ever see you again, it's going to be just too bad. Eh?. Oh, you don't know what I'm angry about, do you? If you come over I'll be very glad to tell you the story of Louie's watch. I dare you to come over, you you skunk in sheep's clothing! And bring that bodyguard of yours, too you'll need him.
CLOSEUP HILDY: .And I just want you to listen to one more thing.
HILDY: .And I just want you to listen to one more thing.
HILDY: Hear that? That's the interview I wrote. Yes, I know we made a bargain. I just said I'd write it I didn't say I wouldn't tear it up. Yes, it's all in little pieces now, Walter, and I hope to do the same for you some time!
HILDY: And that's my farewell to the newspaper game. I'm going to live a normal life and have a home.
HILDY: I'm going to be a woman, not a newsgetting machine. I'm going to have babies and nurse them and love them and give 'em cod liver oil and worry about their new teeth and the minute I catch one of them even looking at a newspaper, I'm going to brain him! Where's my hat?
SCHWARTZ: ( subdued tones ) Hello, Mr. Burns. Yes, she's still ( stopping midway to her hat ) I'll take it. ( she comes over to phone ) What's the matter, Mr. Burns don't you understand English? Why, your language is shocking, Mr. Burns positively shocking! I don't mind because I was married to you and know what to expect, but suppose Central is listening in. Oh, did you hear that, Central? We ought to report him, don't you think?. Oh, fooey on you!
HILDY: ( stopping midway to her hat ) I'll take it. ( she comes over to phone ) What's the matter, Mr. Burns don't you understand English? Why, your language is shocking, Mr. Burns positively shocking! I don't mind because I was married to you and know what to expect, but suppose Central is listening in. Oh, did you hear that, Central? We ought to report him, don't you think?. Oh, fooey on you!
HILDY: Now where was that hat? Oh, yes.
WILLIAMS: I hope you're pretty nearly through with me, Doctor, I'm getting a little Yeah, you don't want to tire him out, Doctor.
HARTMAN: Yeah, you don't want to tire him out, Doctor.
EGELHOFFER: Just one thing more. I'd like to reenact the crime, Mr. Williams. May I have your gun, please, Sheriff?
HARTMAN: I don't know
EGELHOFFER: ( insistently ) Come, come, Sheriff, lightning doesn't strike in the same place twice. Nothing's going to happen.
EGELHOFFER: Now, the Sheriff will be Mollie Malloy, in whose room you were. You will be Earl Williams. And I will be the policeman. Follow me, Mr. Yes, sir. So now I say to you: 'Earl Williams, you are under arrest!' and you point your gun at me.
WILLIAMS: Yes, sir. So now I say to you: 'Earl Williams, you are under arrest!' and you point your gun at me.
EGELHOFFER: So now I say to you: 'Earl Williams, you are under arrest!' and you point your gun at me.
WILLIAMS: ( hesitantly ) Well, it wasn't exactly that way
EGELHOFFER: ( insistently ) Point the gun at me!
EGELHOFFER: Then what did you do? Now can I go, please?
WILLIAMS: ( pathetically ) Now can I go, please?
VOICE: Hey, Sheriff! Open up! What happened?
ENDICOTT: Goodbye, Yonson.
MCCUE: So long, Hildy.
MURPHY: Send us a postcard, kid.
SCHWARTZ: Who'll keep the lamp in the window for you.
BENSINGER: Goodbye, Hildy.
HILDY: Well, goodbye, you wage-slaves. When you're crawling up fire escapes, getting kicked out of front doors, and eating Christmas dinners in one- armed joints, don't forget your pal, Hildy Johnson! And, remember, my husband sells insurance!
HILDY: "It takes a heap o' livin' to make a house a home."
WILSON: There's a jail-break!
MURPHY: ( at window, simultaneously ) Cooley! What's the matter What's Watch the gate! He's probably trying the gate!
ENDICOTT: ( out the window ) Who got away? Who was it?
VOICE OUTSIDE: Earl. Williams!!!
THE REPORTERS: Who? Who'd he say? Earl Williams! It was Earl Williams! He got away! Etc.
MCCUE: Holy -! Gimme that telephone! Hurry! Hurry up! This is important!
MCCUE: ( screaming ) Look out!
MURPHY: ( out the window ) Look out where you're aiming, will
MEDIUM SHOT: The last of the reporters is gone.
ANOTHER ANGLE: She lets go of the chair and takes one of the telephones.
HILDY: She lets go of the chair and takes one of the telephones.
HILDY: Morning Post?. Get me Walter Burns quick! Hildy Johnson calling.
HILDY: Walter?. Hildy. Earl Williams just escaped from the County Jail. Yep. yep. yep. don't worry! I'm on the job!
MEDIUM SHOT: There is another volley outside. Hildy sails her hat and starts peeling off her gloves as she jumps for the door.
HILDY: Cooley, I want to talk to you.
COOLEY: ( trying to get up ) Hildy I can't. I'm busy I Let me up, Hildy. Earl Williams has
HILDY: There's money in it, Cooley.
COOLEY: I can't Hildy. It means my job! It A lot of money. Four hundred and fifty dollars
HILDY: ( interrupting him ) A lot of money. ( she opens her bag ) Four hundred and fifty dollars
COOLEY: How much?
HILDY: Four hundred and fifty dollars. Is it a deal?
COOLEY: It's a deal. Let me up.
COOLEY: Let's see the money.
HILDY: ( money still in her hand ) First we talk. How did Earl Williams get that gun?
COOLEY: Come on, and I'll tell you.
MEDIUM SHOT: They move off as the gates are closed.
ENDICOTT: ( into phone ) Endicott talking.
ENDICOTT: ( into phone ) No nobody knows where he got the gun, but I think Mollie Malloy smuggled it in to him. He ran up the fire-escape, and went back in the infirmary window. Then he got out through the skylight. He must have slid down the rain-pipe to the street.
MURPHY'S VOICE: Gimme the Desk.
ENDICOTT: No, I tell you! Nobody knows where he got it.
MURPHY: The Crime Commission has offered a reward of ten thousand dollars for Williams' capture.
ENDICOTT: Call you back.
MURPHY: No clue yet as to Earl Williams' whereabouts. Here's a little feature though: There's been an accident about a tear bomb
WILSON: ( into phone ) Wilson talking.
MURPHY: Yeah tear bomb. Criminals cry for
MEDIUM SHOT: including Murphy, Wilson and doorway. The Sheriff enters, turning as he enters. As he turns back to someone in corridor:
HARTMAN: If the Mayor wants me, he knows where I am.
MURPHY: ( into phone ) This tear bomb went off unexpectedly in the hands of Sheriff Hartman's Bombing Squad.
HARTMAN: What went off?
MURPHY: ( into phone ) Four of Mr. Hartman's Deputy Sheriffs were rushed to the hospital
HARTMAN: A fine fair-weather friend you are!
MURPHY: ( remorselessly, into phone ) The names are Merwyn D. Mayor, who is the Mayor's brother-in-law
HARTMAN: After all I've done for you
MURPHY: ( continuing ) Howard Shenken, the Sheriff's uncle on his mother's side
WILSON: ( into phone ) Hello, Jim? Sidelights on Sheriff Hartman's manhunt.
MURPHY: ( into phone ) William Lungren, who is the Sheriff's landlord, and Lester Bartow who married the Sheriff's niece. You remember, the very homely dame. Call you back.
WILSON: ( into phone ) Mrs. William Tausig, age fifty-five, scrub lady, while at work scrubbing the eighth floor of the Commerce Building, was shot in the left leg by one of Sheriff Hartman's deputies.
HILDY: There goes another scrub lady.
WILSON: ( into phone ) I'll go right after it.
MURPHY: ( to Hildy ) Any dope yet on how he got out?
HILDY: From all I can get the Sheriff let him out so's he could vote for him.
HARTMAN: I'm very disappointed in you, Hildy
MURPHY: How do you suppose Williams got that
HILDY: ( into phone ) Give me Walter Burns quick
HILDY: ( picking up phone ) Walter, listen. I've got the inside story on how Williams got the gun and escaped.
BURNS: Exclusive? That's great.
HILDY: It cost me four hundred and fifty bucks to tear it out of Cooley.
BURNS: Never mind that. What's the story?
HILDY: Never mind it? That's not my money! That's Bruce's money!
BURNS: You'll get it. Now what's the story? I'll have the paper send the money right down to you. I swear it on my mother's grave.
HILDY: Wait a minute. Your mother's alive.
BURNS: I meant on my grandmother's grave. Don't be so technical, Hildy. What's the story?!
HILDY: Well, this expert Dr. Egelhoffer, from New York, decides to make Williams re-enact the crime
HILDY: Well, I'm coming to it. It seems the Professor had to have a gun to re- enact the crime with and who do you suppose supplied it? Nobody else but that great thinker, Sheriff No kidding, Hildy. Say, this isn't a rib?
BURNS: ( laughing ) No kidding, Hildy. ( suspiciously ) Say, this isn't a rib?
HILDY: No, this is on the level, Walter. I'm not good enough to make this one up. The Sheriff gave his gun to the Professor, the Professor gave it to Earl, and Earl gave it right back to the Professor right in the stomach! Who? No, Egelhoffer wasn't hurt badly. They took him to the County Hospital where they're afraid he'll recover.
BURNS: That's great work, Hildy. Huh? Oh, will you stop worrying about the money? I'll see you get it in fifteen It better be fifteen minutes, because Bruce is waiting downstairs in a taxicab and that meter's clicking away to beat the band.
HILDY: It better be fifteen minutes, because Bruce is waiting downstairs in a taxicab and that meter's clicking away to beat the band.
BURNS: Hold on a minute.
BURNS: ( his hand carefully over receiver of phone ) Come here. There's a guy waiting in a taxi in front of the Criminal Courts building. His name is Bruce Baldwin. Can you do your stuff?
BLONDE: I've never flopped on you, have I?
BURNS: Then scram! You've got about two
BURNS: ( into phone ) Sorry to keep you waiting. How much was it again? Four hundred and fifty dollars? Hang on a second.
BURNS: ( to Louis ) I need four hundred and fifty dollars in counterfeit money. You know where I can get it?
LOUIS: It's awful funny I happen to have some on me.
BURNS: ( into phone ) It's coming right over. I'm sending it over with Louis. Thanks for the story and good luck on your honeymoon.
HILDY: Keep the thanks, but just see that the money gets here!
MCCUE: Hello, Hildy. I thought you were I thought so, too.
HILDY: I thought so, too.
MCCUE: ( into phone ) McCue speaking. Mrs. Phoebe DeWolfe, eight-sixty-one and a half South State Street, colored, gave birth to a pickaninny in a patrol wagon with Sheriff Hartman's special Rifle Squad acting as nurses. Well Phoebe was walking along the street when all of a sudden she began that's right. So the police coaxed her into the patrol wagon and they started a race with the stork. When the pickaninny was born the Rifle Squad examined him carefully to see if it was Earl Williams who they knew was hiding
MED. SHOT: Hildy is still pacing. McCue laughs at his own joke.
MCCUE: ( to Hildy ) Did you get that, Hildy?
HILDY: No what?
HILDY: Hello Bruce! I thought you were downstairs in a What? Arrested again! What for this time, Bruce? Mashing! Oh, Bruce, can't I leave you alone for three minutes even? Well, where are you? The 27th Precinct? All right, I'll be right I'll be over in twenty minutes, Bruce. If I ever see Walter Burns Get me Walter Burns. Hildy Johnson! Well, he was there just a minute ago! Have him call me back!
MEDIUM SHOT: ( to McCue ) If Walter Burns calls, hold the wire for me, will you? I'll be right back. ( she goes out )
HILDY: ( to McCue ) If Walter Burns calls, hold the wire for me, will you? I'll be right back. ( she goes out )
MCCUE: Okay, Hildy. Well, we can't get any official
MCCUE: ( into phone ) Oh, wait a minute here's the Mayor. Maybe he'll give us one.
MAYOR: Don't pester me now, please. I got a lot on my mind.
CLOSEUP MCCUE: ( into phone ) His Honor won't say anything.
MCCUE: ( into phone ) His Honor won't say anything.
MAYOR: ( to McCue ) Have you seen Sheriff Hartman?
MCCUE: It's hard to say, Your Honor. The place is so full of cockroaches.
MURPHY: Say, Your Honor, what effect's this jail-break going to have on the colored voters?
MAYOR: Not an iota. In what way can an unavoidable misfortune of this sort influence the duty of every citizen, colored or otherwise?
ENDICOTT: Your Honor, is there a Red Menace or ain't there?
MAYOR: ( to the Sheriff ) Hartman, I've been looking for you!
MURPHY: So have we!
ENDICOTT: What's the dope, Sheriff?
MURPHY: Who engineered this getaway?
CLOSE SHOT: Just a minute! We've got him located.
HARTMAN: Just a minute! We've got him located.
ENDICOTT: Where is he?
MURPHY: Where is he?
HARTMAN: Where he used to live. You can catch the Riot Squad it's just going
MAYOR: Pete, I want to talk to you!
HARTMAN: I ain't got time, Fred, honest. I'll see you after.
MAYOR: Did you actually give Williams that The professor asked me for it I thought it was for something Pete, I've got a mighty unpleasant task to perf
HARTMAN: ( a wail ) The professor asked me for it I thought it was for something Pete, I've got a mighty unpleasant task to perf
MAYOR: Pete, I've got a mighty unpleasant task to perf
SCHWARTZ: Hiya, Your Honor. Schwartz calling. How about it, Your Honor? Any statement on the Red uprising What Red uprising?
MAYOR: What Red uprising?
HARTMAN: There'll be no Red uprising!
SCHWARTZ: ( into phone ) Gimme rewrite ( to the Mayor ) The Governor says the situation calls for the militia.
MAYOR: You can quote me as saying that anything the Governor says is a tissue of lies.
SCHWARTZ: ( into phone ) Hello, Jake. Here's a red-hot statement from the Governor. He claims that the Mayor and the Sheriff have shown themselves to be a couple of eight-year-olds playing with fire.
SCHWARTZ' VOICE: Quote him as follows: "It is a lucky thing for the city that next Tuesday is Election Day, as the citizens will thus be saved the expense of impeaching the Mayor and the Sheriff." That's all call you back.
SCHWARTZ: Nice to have seen you, Mayor.
MAYOR: We've got to go somewhere private, Pete. I've got to talk to you straight from the shoulder.
HARTMAN: ( beside himself ) Now, listen, Fred. Just give me a few hours before you make any decisions. I'll get results. I'm doing everything humanly possible. I've just sworn in four hundred Four hundred! Do you want to bankrupt this administration?
MAYOR: Four hundred! Do you want to bankrupt this administration?
HARTMAN: ( pleadingly ) I'm getting them for twelve dollars a night.
MAYOR: Twelve dollars! For those rheumatic uncles of yours? Out shooting everybody they see for the fun of it?
HARTMAN: ( with dignity ) If you're talking about my brother- in-law, he's worked for the city fifteen years.
MAYOR: Pete, you're through!
HARTMAN: ( stunned ) What do you mean through?
MAYOR: I mean I'm scratching your name off the ticket Tuesday and running Czernecki in your place. It's nothing personal. And, Pete it's the only way out. It's a sacrifice we all ought to be glad to make.
HARTMAN: ( David to Jonathan ) Now, Pete! Please don't appeal to my Sentimental side.
MAYOR: Now, Pete! Please don't appeal to my Sentimental side.
HARTMAN: Fred, I don't know what to say. A thing like this almost destroys a man's faith in human nature.
MAYOR: I wish you wouldn't talk like that, Our families, Fred. I've always looked on Bessie as my own sister.
HARTMAN: Our families, Fred. I've always looked on Bessie as my own sister.
MAYOR: ( wavering and desperate ) If there was any way out.
HARTMAN: There is a way out. I've got Williams surrounded, haven't I? What more do you want? Hello. Yes. Hello! Four hundred suppers! Nothing doing! This is a man-hunt not a banquet!. The twelve dollars includes everything!!
HARTMAN: That gives you an idea of what I'm up against!
MAYOR: ( hotly ) We're up against a lot more than that with that nutty slogan you invented: 'Reform the Reds With a
MAYOR: Williams ain't a Red, and you know Well, there's a lot of Communistic sympathizers around
HARTMAN: Well, there's a lot of Communistic sympathizers around
MAYOR: I know it! But they've got nothing to do with this case! Do you realize there are two hundred thousand votes at stake and unless we hang Earl Williams we're going to lose 'em?
HARTMAN: But we're going to hang him, Fred. He can't get away.
MAYOR: What do you mean he can't get away?! He got away, didn't he?
MAYOR: Who's out there?
HARTMAN: ( relieved ) Ah! For me!
HARTMAN: ( as he opens door, disclosing Pinkus ) I'm Sheriff Hartman. You want me?
PINKUS: ( coming in ) You're certainly a hard fellow to find, Sheriff.
MAYOR: ( annoyed ) What do you want?
PINKUS: ( taking a document from his pocket and proffering it to Sheriff ) I'm a messenger at the State House. This is from the Governor.
MAYOR: What's from the Governor?
PINKUS: The reprieve for Earl Williams.
HARTMAN: ( stunned ) For who?
PINKUS: ( amiably ) Earl Williams. The reprieve.
MAYOR: W-wait a minute.
HARTMAN: ( bursting forth ) The Governor gave me his word of honor he wouldn't interfere. Two days ago!
MAYOR: And you fell for it, Pete. It frightens me what I'd like to do to Who else knows about this?
PINKUS: They were all standing around when he wrote it. It was after they got back from fishing.
MAYOR: ( to Sheriff ) Get the Governor on the phone!
PINKUS: ( helpfully ) You can't get him on the phone. He's out duckshooting now.
MAYOR: Fishing! Duckshooting! How do you like that. A guy does nothing more strenuous for forty years than play pinochle he gets elected Governor and right away he thinks he's Tarzan!
HARTMAN: ( thrusting the document at the Mayor ) Read it! Insane, he says. ( shaking a finger in Pinkus' face ) He knows very well that Williams ain't insane!
PINKUS: Yeah. But I
MAYOR: ( interrupting ) Pure politics!
HARTMAN: An attempt to ruin us!
MAYOR: ( reading ) Dementia praecox Oh-h-h!
HARTMAN: We got to think fast before those lying reporters get hold of this. What'll we tell 'em?
MAYOR: Tell 'em the party is through in this State on account of you.
HARTMAN: Ah, Fred Hello. this is Hartman
MAYOR: ( apoplectic ) And you can tell 'em as an afterthought that I want your resignation now!
HARTMAN: ( from the phone ) Sssh. Wait, Fred. ( excitedly, into phone ) What?. Where?. Where? Holy Moses!
MAYOR: What is it?
HARTMAN: They got him! Wait a minute hold the wire. They got Earl Williams surrounded the Riot Squad has in his house.
MAYOR: Tell 'em to hold the wire.
HARTMAN: I did. Hold the wire.
MAYOR: Cover up that transmitter!
MAYOR: Now, listen! You never arrived here with this reprieve. Get it?
PINKUS: ( blinking ) Yes, I did, just now. Don't you How much do you make a week?
MAYOR: How much do you make a week?
PINKUS: ( impatiently ) How much do you make a week? What's your salary?
MAYOR: ( impatiently ) How much do you make a week? What's your salary?
PINKUS: ( reluctantly ) Forty dollars.
HARTMAN: ( into phone ) No don't out me off.
MAYOR: How would you like to have a job for three hundred and fifty dollars a month. That's almost a hundred dollars a week!
PINKUS: Who? Me?
MAYOR: ( exasperated ) Who do you think!
MAYOR: Now, listen. There's a fine opening for a fellow like you in the City Sealer's office.
PINKUS: The what?
MAYOR: The City Sealer's office!
PINKUS: You mean here in the city?
MAYOR: ( foaming ) Yes, yes!
HARTMAN: ( at phone ) Well, wait a minute, will you? I'm in conference.
PINKUS: ( a very deliberate intellect ) No, I couldn't do that.
MAYOR: Why not?
PINKUS: I couldn't work in the city. You see, I've got my family in the But you could bring 'em in here! We'll pay all your expenses.
MAYOR: ( desperate ) But you could bring 'em in here! We'll pay all your expenses.
PINKUS: ( with vast thought ) No, I don't think so.
MAYOR: For heaven's sake, why not?
PINKUS: I got two kids going to school there, and if I changed them from one town to another, they'd lose a grade.
MAYOR: No, they wouldn't they'd gain one! And I guarantee that they'll graduate with highest honors!
PINKUS: ( lured ) ( into phone ) Hold your horses will you, Olsen? Hurry up, Fred!
HARTMAN: ( into phone ) Hold your horses will you, Olsen? Hurry up, Fred!
MAYOR: Now what do you say?
PINKUS: This puts me in a peculiar hole.
MAYOR: No, it doesn't. Now, remember: you never delivered You got caught in the traffic, or Now, get out of here and don't let anybody see you.
PINKUS: But how do I know.?
MAYOR: Come in and see me in my office tomorrow. What's your name?
PINKUS: ( taking out his wallet ) All right, Mr. Pinkus, all you've got to do is lay low and keep your mouth shut. Here! ( he hands him a card ) Go to this address. It's a nice, homey little place, and they'll take care of you for the night. Just tell 'em Fred sent you. And here's fifty dollars on account.
MAYOR: ( taking out his wallet ) All right, Mr. Pinkus, all you've got to do is lay low and keep your mouth shut. Here! ( he hands him a card ) Go to this address. It's a nice, homey little place, and they'll take care of you for the night. Just tell 'em Fred sent you. And here's fifty dollars on account.
HARTMAN: ( into phone, desperately ) Will you wait, Olsen? I'll tell you in a minute!
PINKUS: You forgot to tell me what a City Sealer has to do.
MAYOR: ( turning hastily toward Pinkus ) I'll explain it tomorrow!
PINKUS: Is it hard?
MAYOR: No! It's easy it's very easy!
HARTMAN: ( pleadingly, into phone ) Just one second
PINKUS: That's good, because my health ain't what it used to be.
MAYOR: ( pushing him out the door ) We'll fix that, too. ( he closes the door after him )
HARTMAN: ( into phone one more plea ) Just one second!
MAYOR: ( huskily ) All right. Tell 'em to shoot to kill.
HARTMAN: Shoot to kill, I said.
MAYOR: Shoot to kill, I said.
HARTMAN: I don't know, Fred. There's that reprieve if they ever find out.
MAYOR: Nobody reprieved that policeman he murdered. Now, do as I tell you.
HARTMAN: ( into phone ) Hello, Olsen. Listen. ( his voice is weak ) Shoot to kill. That's the orders pass the word along. No! We dont want him! And listen, Olsen, five- hundred bucks for the guy that does the job. Yes, I'll be right out ( hangs up ) Well, I hope that's the right thing to do.
MAYOR: Now take that guilty look off your face, Pete and stop trembling like a horse.
HARTMAN: ( mopping his brow ) If we didn't have election Tuesday I'd have this on my conscience.
HILDY: ( into phone ) Will you try
LOUIE'S VOICE: ( wheeling towards door )
HILDY: ( wheeling towards door )
HILDY: Have you got my dough?
LOUIS: Oh, sure. The boss sent me over with it. Four hundred dollars, wasn't it?
HILDY: Four hundred and fifty and I'll cut your throat if you try any tricks!
LOUIS: All right, all right. You can't blame a guy for tryin', can you?
HILDY: Come on with that money!
LOUIS: First you got to sign a receipt.
HILDY: Where's the money?
LOUIS: Keep your shirt on. I got it right One hundred two hundred three hundred four hundred and fifty. Now sign.
HILDY: ( grabs money and signs ) Thanks. So long, Hildy!
LOUIS: Thanks. So long, Hildy!
HILDY: ( grabbing him ) So long, nothing! Where's Bruce Baldwin's wallet?
LOUIS: None of that innocent stuff, you double-crossing hyena! You stuck Bruce Baldwin in jail this afternoon on a phony charge that he swiped your watch, and you frisked his wallet! Now, give me that wallet or I'll stick you in jail and it won't be on any phony charge either! It'll be for life!
HILDY: None of that innocent stuff, you double-crossing hyena! You stuck Bruce Baldwin in jail this afternoon on a phony charge that he swiped your watch, and you frisked his wallet! Now, give me that wallet or I'll stick you in jail and it won't be on any phony charge either! It'll be for life!
LOUIS: Now don't get excited, Hildy! I don't know what you're talking about but is this Mr. Baldwin's wallet?
HILDY: ( grabbing it ) You know it is!
LOUIS: I didn't frisk him. He must have dropped it in Burns' office. I didn't know whose it was.
HILDY: No and you don't know that your cheap boss has had Mr. Baldwin arrested again do you?
LOUIS: ( surprised ) What already? Why, the dame left only a minute before I did!
HILDY: ( into phone ) 27th Precinct Station House?
WILLIAMS: ( pointing gun at her ) Drop that phone
WILLIAMS: ( supporting himself by holding on to edge of desk ) You're not going to phone anybody where I am.
HILDY: ( bracing herself ) Put down that gun, Earl.
HILDY: You're not going to shoot me, Earl. I'm your friend, remember? I've got to write that story about your "Production for Use".
WILLIAMS: Yes that's right. Production for
HILDY: Earl, you don't want to hurt your friends, do you?
WILLIAMS: Don't move!
WILLIAMS: Maybe you're my friend and maybe you're not but don't come any nearer. You can't trust anybody in this crazy world. Say, I'll bet I could shoot you from here.
HILDY: Sure you could, Earl but you wouldn't want to do that, would you? You wouldn't want to kill anybody.
WILLIAMS: No, no, you're right. I don't want to kill anybody. All I want to do is be let alone.
HILDY: Earl, there's just one thing I ought to clear up for the interview.
WILLIAMS: What's that? Only you're getting too near. I don't trust anybody.
HILDY: I don't blame you, Earl. If I were in your place I wouldn't trust anybody, either.
WILLIAMS: ( suddenly ) Keep away!
WILLIAMS: ( weakly ) I guess I used all the shells.
HILDY: Earl, you must never do that again.
WILLIAMS: Oh, I'm awful tired. I couldn't go through another day like this.
HILDY: ( more her old self now ) Well, maybe you think I could!
EARL'S VOICE: I'm not afraid to die. I was tellin' the fella that when he handed me the
HILDY: Don't talk too loud.
WILLIAMS: ( babbling on as she moves about ) Wakin' me up in the middle of the night talkin' to me about things they don't understand. Callin' me a Bolshevik. I'm an anarchist. It's got nothin' to do with bombs. It's the philosophy that guarantees every man freedom. You see that, don't Sure I do, Earl.
HILDY: Sure I do, Earl.
WILLIAMS: I wish they'd take me back and hang me. I done my best.
HILDY: ( into phone ) Hello. Gimme Walter Burns quick!
HILDY: ( into second phone ) Hello hel Oh, hello, Bruce. Oh, Bruce, please I know I said I'd be down in fifteen minutes, but something terrific's happened! Hang on, Bruce ( into first phone ) Walter?. Hildy. Come over here right away!. Wait! ( into second phone ) Bruce, just a second, Bruce I'll explain everything. ( into first phone ) Walter! Get this: I've got Earl Williams. Yes! Here in the Press Room. Honest! On the level. Hurry I need you.
HILDY: Bruce, this is the biggest thing that ever happened. I just captured Earl Williams you know the murderer
HILDY: Bruce, I'll be down Well, Bruce, the minute I turn him over to the paper I'll be right down. Bruce, don't you Bruce, I can't now I can't, don't you realize?
MED. SHOT: taking in door. Hildy glares apprehensively, then crosses to
HILDY: ( cautiously ) Who's there?
MOLLIE'S VOICE: It's me, Mollie Malloy! Let me in.
MOLLIE: Where are they gone? You know where they are?
HILDY: Wait a minute, Mollie.
MOLLIE: They got him surrounded some place gonna shoot him like a dog!
HILDY: Mollie, they haven't got him. You gotta help me, Mollie! We've got to do something!
MOLLIE: What do you mean? What's that?
MOLLIE: ( spinning around ) What's that?
HILDY: Quiet, Mollie!
MOLLIE: There's somethin' funny going on around here.
MED. SHOT: Mollie crosses to wall and switches on the lights. She sees Williams, sobs and rushes over to him.
WILLIAMS: Hello, Mollie.
HILDY: Quiet, Mollie, quiet!
WILLIAMS: ( putting out hand to stroke her hair ) Don't cry, Mollie, there's nothing to cry about.
HILDY: How'd you get here, Earl?
WILLIAMS: Down the drainpipe. I didn't mean to shoot him. You believe me, don't you, Mollie?
MOLLIE: ( coming up ) Of course I believe you.
WILLIAMS: I forgot to thank you for those roses. They were beautiful.
MOLLIE: That's all right, Mr. Williams. You're a woman. You got to help us. You got to get him out of here, some place where I can take care of him.
HILDY: Stop screaming, Mollie or we're sunk. I'm trying to think of something before those reporters get back.
WILLIAMS: Let 'em take me. It's better that No I'll never let 'em!
MOLLIE: No I'll never let 'em!
MOLLIE: They'll get him! They'll get him!
HILDY: INT. CORRIDOR OUTSIDE PRESS ROOM DOOR CLOSE SHOT Endicott at door is trying to get in.
ENDICOTT: Who locked the door?
HILDY: ( calling ) Just a second, Mike - ( whispering to Mollie ) Mollie, I got it!
HILDY: Can you get in this desk?
WILSON: What's going on in there?
WILLIAMS: What good'll it do?
HILDY: We'll get you out in ten minutes.
ENDICOTT: Open up there, will you!
HILDY: ( crying ) All right all right!
MOLLIE: ( to Earl ) Go on! ( shoving him to desk ) They'll find me anyhow. ( calling ) I'm coming! ( to Earl ) Keep dead quiet. Don't even breathe.
WILLIAMS: They'll find me anyhow. I'm coming! Keep dead quiet. Don't even breathe.
HILDY: ( calling ) I'm coming! ( to Earl ) Keep dead quiet. Don't even breathe.
MOLLIE: ( to Earl ) I'll be right here. I won't leave ( giving door a terrific kick ) ( to Mollie ) Mollie, drop down here! You've What's the idea?
ENDICOTT: ( giving door a terrific kick ) ( to Mollie ) Mollie, drop down here! You've What's the idea?
HILDY: ( to Mollie ) Mollie, drop down here! You've What's the idea?
MOLLIE: What's the idea?
HILDY: Never mind! Just play dead.
MED. SHOT: Hildy rushes over to windows and pulls up the shades. Mollie is lying quietly on the floor with her eyes closed. Hildy rushes over to water cooler and gets a paper cup full of water. She throws the water in Mollie's face.
MOLLIE: ( spluttering ) ( fiercely ) Shut up, you!
HILDY: ( fiercely ) Shut up, you!
ENDICOTT: Kind of exclusive, ain't you? We got calls to make, you know.
HILDY: Run down and get some smelling salts, will you?
WILSON: Smelling salts! What's going on here?
ENDICOTT: Mollie Malloy what happened to Came up here had hysterics and passed out. I've been trying to get her to come to.
HILDY: ( as Endicott and Wilson enter room ) Came up here had hysterics and passed out. I've been trying to get her to come to.
ENDICOTT: She looks as though she's going to come to.
HILDY: Give me a hand with her, will you?
ENDICOTT: ( lifting Mollie ) Up you go, Mollie.
WILSON: ( into Phone ) City Desk.
ENDICOTT: She'll be all right. The Desk.
WILSON: ( into phone ) Well, they surrounded the house, all right, only they forgot to tell Williams, and he wasn't there.
MURPHY: ( seeing Hildy, who has been fastening Mollie's blouse ) Hildy, I thought you were gone
HILDY: Well I was going, but Mollie fainted away and I thought I ought to do what I could.
MURPHY: Some Hallowe'en goin' on outside. The whole police force standing on it's ear.
MCCUE: ( panting ) What a chase!
ENDICOTT: ( into phone ) No luck on Williams, yet call you
WILSON: ( into phone ) Okay, later.
MURPHY: ( into phone ) Murphy talking.
HILDY: Any news?
SCHWARTZ: Yeah. I was never so tired in my
MCCUE: ( into phone ) Where? Harrison Street Station? All right, connect me.
SCHWARTZ: ( into phone ) Schwartz calling. Out with Hartman's deputies. I'm in a drugstore. You can't call me back because I'm going right on with them.
HILDY: Are you all right, now?
MOLLIE: Yeah, I'm feelin' fine.
MURPHY: Sure, Mollie, you never looked better in your life.
MCCUE: ( turning from phone ) Yeah, hold the line. Hey, this looks good. An old lady just called the detective bureau and claims Williams is hiding in her cellar. Well - we've looked every other place. Want to go out on it?
ENDICOTT: Aw, nuts with chasing around any more. I spent a dollar-forty on taxis I say we don't go out any more. Let Earl Williams come to us.
SCHWARTZ: I say we don't go out any more. Let Earl Williams come to us.
CLOSEUP HILDY: A fine bunch of reporters. Biggest story in two years and they're too lazy to go after it.
HILDY: A fine bunch of reporters. Biggest story in two years and they're too lazy to go after it.
ENDICOTT: It's easy for you to talk. You're retired. We're still working.
MCCUE: ( into phone ) Forget it. ( he hangs up )
HILDY: What's the matter with you boys? Afraid it might rain? If you want to go, I'll cover this end.
MURPHY: Say, Hildy, if I know you, you sound pretty anxious to get rid of us. Are you trying to scoop us or something?
ENDICOTT: Something smells around here. If you ask me Mollie gave her the story on how Williams got that gun. Did you smuggle that gun into Williams, Mollie?
MOLLIE: I didn't do nothin'.
MCCUE: ( crossing to Mollie ) Come clean, Mollie.
ENDICOTT: Better let us in on it, Mollie.
HILDY: Aw, why don't you let her alone? She's ill!
MURPHY: Oh, you two are pals now I think you're right, Endicott. Mollie did give her some kind of story.
ENDICOTT: I tell you, it's a screwy set-up. We better hold onto 'em both.
MRS. BALDWIN: CLOSE SHOT HILDY as she comes in to her.
HILDY: MRS. BALDWIN
MRS. BALDWIN: Don't you mother me! Playing cat-and- mouse with my poor boy! Keeping him looked up making us miss two trains and supposed to be married tomorrow!
HILDY: Mother, I can explain everything. I'll go with you in five minutes and
MRS. BALDWIN: You don't have to go with me at all! Just give me my son's money and you can stay here forever as far as I'm concerned. Stay with that murderer you caught!
MURPHY: Where does she get that stuff?
SCHWARTZ: Shall we tell her what she looks Wait a minute! What murderer did you catch, Hildy?
ENDICOTT: Wait a minute! What murderer did you catch, Hildy?
HILDY: I don't know what she's talking about. I never said any such thing.
MRS. BALDWIN: I'm quoting my son, and he has never lied to me. I knew something stunk around here Who says she caught him ? What do you mean she caught a murderer ? But I never said anything like that!
REPORTERS: I knew something stunk around here Who says she caught him ? What do you mean she caught a murderer ? But I never said anything like that!
HILDY: ( desperately ) But I never said anything like that!
MRS. BALDWIN: Yes, you did!
CLOSEUP MOLLIE: She never told her that!
MOLLIE: She never told her that!
HILDY: I said I was trying to catch one. You got it balled up, Mother.
CLOSE SHOT: taking in Mollie, with Murphy coming into scene to her.
MURPHY: What do you know about it? How do you know she didn't?
MOLLIE: Let go!
ENDICOTT: Hold on to her, Jimmy she's in with Hildy on this.
MURPHY: Who you holding out on? Come clean, or we'll make you wish you had
MED. SHOT: as the rest of the reporters surround Hildy menacingly.
ENDICOTT: ( to Hildy ) Hildy, are you gonna cross us for Walter Burns after the way you told him off?
WILSON: Give in, Hildy you can't get away with it.
CLOSEUP MOLLIE: AS SHE CRIES WILDLY:
MOLLIE: Wait! You stool-pigeons! She don't know where Williams is. I'm the one that knows.
ENDICOTT: What do you mean, you know?
MED. SHOT: Mollie begins backing slowly around the table, away from them, toward the window.
MOLLIE: Go find out, you heels! You don't think I'm gonna tell!
CLOSEUP HILDY: who has remained riveted at desk.
HILDY: Let her alone! She's goofy!
REPORTERS: Look out! Close that door! etc.,
MCCUE: You ain't gettin' out o' here!
ENDICOTT: Now, where is he?
WILSON: Where you hidin' him?
MOLLIE: I ain't gonna squeal! I ain't goin' Come on, you! Before we slap you Do you want us to call the cops and have them give you the boots?
MURPHY: ( leaning across table ) Come on, you! Before we slap you Do you want us to call the cops and have them give you the boots?
ENDICOTT: Do you want us to call the cops and have them give you the boots?
MURPHY: Where is he, before we beat it out of you?
MOLLIE: ( backing ) Don't you come near me, you kidney
MOLLIE: ( wild and blubbering ) Let me alone or I'll knock your heads Put down that chair!
ENDICOTT: Put down that chair!
SCHWARTZ: Get around get on the side of No, you don't! Keep away!
MOLLIE: ( still backing ) No, you don't! ( a scream ) Keep away!
WILSON: Grab her!
MOLLIE: You'll never get it out of me! I'll never tell! Never!
MRS. BALDWIN: Take me out of here! Take me
MCCUE: ( turning ) Get the cops, somebody.
MURPHY: ( turning ) Come on, fellas.
HILDY: Gee! The poor kid. the poor kid.
VOICES: ( of guards rushing in ) Get a doctor! Take her to the infirmary! She ain't killed she's
HILDY: Walter! D-did you see Yes. Where is he?
BURNS: Yes. Where is he?
HILDY: ( comes in to him ) She jumped out of the window.
BURNS: I know. Where is he, I said.
[MISSING PAGE]: CLOSE SHOT MRS. BALDWIN looking up at them, off.
MRS. BALDWIN: What are you doing?
BURNS' VOICE: Shut up!
MRS. BALDWIN: I won't shut up! That girl killed herself. Oh-h, you're doing something wrong. What's in that desk?
CLOSE SHOT: Louie, take this lady over to Polack Mike's and lock her up. See that she doesn't take to anyone on the way.
BURNS: Louie, take this lady over to Polack Mike's and lock her up. See that she doesn't take to anyone on the way.
MRS. BALDWIN: What's that what's that?
HILDY: Wait a minute, Walter. You can't do My name is Louis Peluso.
LOUIE: ( extending his hand as if to shake hands with Mrs. Baldwin ) My name is Louis Peluso.
BURNS: Tell 'em it's a case of delirium
TRUCKING SHOT: with them Hildy catching up.
HILDY: Now, let go of her, Louie. Listen, Walter, this'll get me in a terrible jam with my fiance and I don't stand so well with him now. Don't worry, Mother, this is only temporary.
BURNS: Where do you think you're going?
HILDY: Let go o' me! I've got to get Bruce out of jail! Oh, Walter, why did you have to do this to me?
BURNS: ( scornfully ) Get Bruce out of jail! How can you worry about a man who's resting comfortably in a quiet police station while this is going on? Hildy, this is war! You can't desert now!
HILDY: Oh, get off that trapeze! There's your story! Smear it all over the front page Earl Williams caught by the Morning Post! And take all the credit I covered your story for you and I got myself in a fine mess doing it and now I'm getting out! I know I told you that twice before today but this time I mean it!
BURNS: You drooling idiot! What do you mean, you're getting out! There are three hundred and sixty-five days in the year one can get married but how many times have you got a murderer locked up in a desk? Once in a lifetime! Hildy, you've got the whole city by the seat of the pants!
HILDY: I know, but
BURNS: ( interrupting ) You know! You've got the brain of a pancake! That wasn't just a story you covered it was a revolution! Hildy! This is the greatest yarn in journalism since Livingstone discovered Stanley for the New York ( quickly closes the door )
HILDY: ( slightly bewildered ) Wait a minute wasn't it Stanley who discovered Livingstone?
BURNS: Don't get technical at a time like this! Do you realize what you've done? You've taken a city that's been graft-ridden for forty years under the same old gang and with this yarn you're kicking 'em out and giving us a chance to have the same kind of government that New York's having under La Guardia! We'll make such monkeys out of these ward-heelers next Tuesday that nobody'll vote for them not even their wives!
HILDY: ( the fire upon her ) I'd like to think.
BURNS: Well, think it then, because it's true! We'll crucify that mob. We're going to keep Williams under cover till morning so the Post can break the story exclusive. Then we'll let the Governor in on the capture share the glory with him.
HILDY: ( excited ) I get it!
BURNS: You've kicked over the whole City Hall like an apple-cart. You've got the Mayor and Hartman backed against a wall. You've put one administration out and another in. This isn't a newspaper story it's a career! And you stand there belly-aching about whether you catch an eight o'clock train or a nine o'clock train! Still a doll-faced mugg! That's all you are.
HILDY: Let me get at that typewriter and I'll show you how a doll-faced mugg can write!
BURNS: Attagirl! Why, they'll be naming streets after you Hildy Johnson Street! There'll be statues of you in the parks, Hildy. The radio'll be after you the movies! By tomorrow morning I'll betcha there's a Hildy Johnson cigar! I can see the billboards now. Light up with Hildy Johnson!
HILDY: Whoa wait a minute. We can't leave Williams here. One of the other We're going to take him over to my private office. Where's our phone?
BURNS: We're going to take him over to my private office. Where's our phone?
HILDY: That one how you gonna take him? They'll see him.
BURNS: Not if he's inside the desk. We'll carry the desk over. Give me Duffy!
HILDY: You can't take that desk out. It's crawling with cops outside.
BURNS: We'll lower it out of the window with pulleys. Quit stallin'.
BURNS: ( coming to ) Get the lead out of your typewriter and start pounding out a load, will you? Snap into it!
HILDY: ( coming to ) Get the lead out of your typewriter and start pounding out a load, will you? Snap into it!
BURNS: Get the lead out of your typewriter and start pounding out a load, will you? Snap into it!
HILDY: How much do you want on it?
BURNS: All the words you've got.
HILDY: ( turning ) Where's some paper?
BURNS: ( into phone ) Hello.! Hello!
HILDY: Can I call the Mayor a bird of prey or is that libelous?
BURNS: Call him a love-child, if you want
HILDY: ( calling to Burns ) How about the time he had his house painted by the Fire Department?
BURNS: Give him the works. Hello, Duffy, get set! We've got the biggest story in the world. Earl Williams caught by the Morning Post
BURNS: ( to Hildy ) ( into phone ) Now, listen, Duffy I want you to tear out the whole front page. That's what I said the whole front page! Never mind the European war! We've got something a whole lot bigger than that. Hildy Johnson's writing the lead and I'll phone it over to you as soon as she's finished. ( he starts to hang up, then thinks of something else ) Oh, Duffy! Get hold of Butch O'Connor and tell him I want him to come up here with half a dozen other wrestlers right away! Tell him we'll run his picture on the sport page for two weeks straight. What? I've got a desk I want moved. Never mind what
BURNS' VOICE: ( Into phone ) "The Blackest cesspool in American city life!" Hold on Duffy, I'll see if she's got any more.
MED. SHOT: Burns goes back to the phone as Hildy continues to type
BURNS: ( into phone ) Duffy Duffy! ( clicking the phone furiously ) Operator! Operator! Get me Duffy back. Somebody cut us off!
BRUCE: What the devil do you want? Listen, Bruce, you can't come in here now! We're busy! Where you been, Duffy? Stick around! What? What Chinese earthquake? The deuce with it. what's that?
BURNS: What the devil do you want? Listen, Bruce, you can't come in here now! We're busy! Where you been, Duffy? Stick around! What? What Chinese earthquake? The deuce with it. what's that?
BRUCE: ( looking up, very casually ) Hello, Bruce.
HILDY: ( looking up, very casually ) Hello, Bruce.
HILDY: BRUCE!! How'd you get out?
BRUCE: ( the hands-off attitude ) Not through any help of yours, Hildy.
HILDY: Bruce, I know, but I was in the biggest jam
BURNS' VOICE: MED. SHOT As Hildy turns toward his voice, Burns, still with the phone in his hand, keeps talking to her.
MED. SHOT: As Hildy turns toward his voice, Burns, still with the phone in his hand, keeps talking to her.
BURNS: For Pete's sake, Hildy, they're waiting for the rest of that story!
HILDY: ( resignedly ) Okay, Walter. ( sits down at her typewriter again )
BRUCE: I waited and waited and then I had an idea and wired Albany to send me a hundred dollars so I could get out on bail. I don't know what they'll think they sent it to the police station!
HILDY: ( she barely stops typing ) We'll explain the whole thing to ( resumes typing )
BRUCE: I know I got you into this, Hildy, but it does seem to me that you can't care much for me if you're willing to let me stay locked up for two Bruce, you know I'm mad about you and stop talking like that. Take the President's speech and run it on the funny page. What is it, Hildy?
HILDY: Bruce, you know I'm mad about you and stop talking like that. Take the President's speech and run it on the funny page. What is it, Hildy?
BURNS: ( into phone ) Take the President's speech and run it on the funny page. ( turns to Hildy, o.s. ) What is it, Hildy?
HILDY'S VOICE: What was the name of the Mayor's first wife?
BURNS: You mean the one who drank so much?
HILDY: ( she types furiously )
BURNS: ( screaming ) Get back in there, you mock turtle!
CLOSEUP BRUCE: turning around toward Burns.
BRUCE: Did you say anything, Mister Burns?
CLOSEUP BURNS: covering up, fast.
BURNS: No I was just talking to one of the guys at the office.
BRUCE: ( to Burns ) ( turns to Hildy ) I wonder what's keeping mother? She was supposed to come down and get Oh, she was here.
HILDY: Oh, she was here.
BRUCE: Where'd she go?
HILDY: Out some place.
BRUCE: Hildy! Where's mother?
HILDY: Oh mother she I don't know where she went.
BRUCE: Did you give her the money?
HILDY: No, I was going to give it to her but she left hurriedly.
BRUCE: Then suppose you give me the money. Four hundred and fifty dollars.
HILDY: Oh, yes. Here it is.
HILDY: Here it is, Bruce. One two three four hundred and fifty Thank you.
BRUCE: ( drily ) Thank you.
CLOSEUP BURNS: watching this with a grin.
MED. SHOT: Featuring the threesome.
BRUCE: ( to Hildy ) And I'll take that certified check, too. I've decided I can handle things around here.
BURNS: Come on, Hildy, we've got to keep going! Sorry, Bruce, but
HILDY: Just a second, Walter. Here, Bruce, here's the check. And, oh, Bruce, here's your wallet. I got it back.
BRUCE: ( taking it and surveying it coldly ) You got it back, eh? There's something funny going on around here.
BURNS: All right, Walter.
HILDY: All right, Walter.
BRUCE: I'm taking the nine o'clock train, Hildy. And you can meet us at the
HILDY: She types away.
BURNS: ( coming over to Bruce ) I'll see she's there, Bruce, I promise ( dramatically ) If she's not there, mother and I are leaving anyhow!
BRUCE: ( dramatically ) If she's not there, mother and I are leaving anyhow!
BURNS: I know how you feel, Bruce, but you've got to forgive her. She's only a woman, after all.
BRUCE: Suppose she is I have feelings, too! Do you know where I've been for the last couple of hours? Locked up in a police station and she didn't move to do anything about it.
BURNS: Ts! Ts! Ts!
BRUCE: And now I don't know where my mother is. She may be lost.
BURNS: I'll find her, Bruce, if I have to put every detective in the city on the job. Tell you what go over to the Missing Persons Bureau and describe your mother. What does she look like?
BRUCE: She's well, she's very motherly. That's about the best description I That's the kind of stuff they want!
BURNS: ( nodding ) That's the kind of stuff they want!
BURNS: Oh, Bruce, let me see that money Hildy gave you.
BRUCE: The money? Why?
BURNS: There's a lot of counterfeit big bills going around.
BRUCE: ( worried ) Gee! Take a look, will you?
BURNS: Oh, this is all right, Bruce. I just wanted to be sure.
BRUCE: Say, I want to be sure, too!
BURNS: ( into phone ) Duffy. Good. Stick close.
AT WINDOW: Burns coming in to window.
BURNS: ( despairingly ) Now the moon's out!
BURNS: Fine. Three taps is me. Don't forget! You're sitting pretty, now. Got enough
BURNS: Is that better? Now breathe deep!
BURNS: He closes the desk and turns back to the table. As he passes Hildy, who is still typing rapidly:
BURNS: ( looking over her shoulder ) That's the stuff! Lam it into 'em,
BURNS: ( into phone ) Hello! Duffy, ready? Here we go!
CLOSEUP BURNS: reading from the page he has taken from Hildy's typewriter.
BURNS: ( into phone ) "In the darkest hour of the city's history "
BURNS: ( into phone ) Listen, did you impress it on Butch that I want him and his gang here right away? You did? Every minute counts. All right. ( puts receiver down on table ) Duffy's getting old!
HILDY: Where's Butch?
BURNS' VOICE: He's on the way.
HILDY: ( over her typing ) He'd better hurry. The boys'll be coming back to phone.
BURNS: ( coming into shot to peer over her shoulder ) Well, keep going! We want an extra out on the streets before it's too ( looking up suddenly ) Where's Bruce?
HILDY: ( looking up suddenly ) Where's Bruce?
BURNS: Bruce? Oh er he went out to get the tickets.
HILDY: What tickets?
BURNS: Railroad tickets.
HILDY: Is he coming back here?
BURNS: Didn't you hear him? Of course he's coming back here. Keep going, will
MED. SHOT: as Burns leaves Hildy and goes over to desk and picks up his phone again.
BURNS: ( into phone )
HILDY: ( calling ) Who is it?
BENSINGER: What's the idea of locking this?
HILDY: That's Bensinger. That's his desk.
BURNS: ( whispering ) What's his name?
HILDY: Bensinger of the Tribune.
BENSINGER: Open this door!
BURNS: I'll handle him.
BURNS: The Tribune, eh? Watch me!
AT DOOR: ( as he comes in ) Ain't you got any more sense than to
BENSINGER: ( as he comes in ) Ain't you got any more sense than to
BURNS: ( casually ) Hello, Bensinger.
BENSINGER: Excuse me, I just want to
BURNS: ( starting for the desk, suddenly blocking his path ) Quite a coincidence, my running into you tonight. Isn't it, Hildy?
HILDY'S VOICE: How do you mean?
BENSINGER: How do you mean?
BURNS: I was having a little chat about you just this afternoon with our Mister Nothing ah detrimental, I hope.
BENSINGER: ( essaying a pleasantry ) Nothing ah detrimental, I hope.
BURNS: I should say not! That was one swell story you had in the paper this Oh, did you care for the poem, Mr. Burns?
BENSINGER: ( deeply moved ) Oh, did you care for the poem, Mr. Burns?
BURNS: ( startled ) The poem?. The poem was great!
BENSINGER: ( blinking at these words ) Remember the ending? ( and he recites ) " and all is well, outside his cell, But in his heart he hears the hangman Calling and the gallows falling And his white-haired mother's ( overcome ) Heartbreaking! How would you like to work for me?
BURNS: ( overcome ) Heartbreaking! How would you like to work for me?
BENSINGER: MEDIUM SHOT taking in table, Hildy typing there.
MEDIUM SHOT: taking in table, Hildy typing there.
BURNS: ( to Bensinger ) We need somebody like you. All we've got now are a lot of low-brows. Like Johnson here. Seriously, Mr. Burns?
BENSINGER: Seriously, Mr. Burns?
BURNS: ( into phone ) Duffy! I'm sending Bensinger over to see you. ( looking up at Bensinger ) Mervyn, isn't it?
BENSINGER: No. Roy. Roy V.
BURNS: ( with a little laugh at his own forgetfulness ) Of course! ( into phone ) Roy Bensinger, the poet. Of course you wouldn't know! You probably never heard of Shakespeare, either! Put Mr. Bensinger right on the staff. ( to Bensinger ) How much are you getting on the Tribune, Roy?
BENSINGER: I'll give you a hundred and a by-
BURNS: I'll give you a hundred and a by-
ANOTHER ANGLE: as Burns continues.
BURNS: ( into phone ) Let him have everything he wants. ( puts down the receiver; turns to Bensinger ) Now hustle and write me a story from the point of view of the escaped ( acting it out ) He hides, cowering. Afraid of every light, of every sound. hears footsteps. his heart going like that. And all the time they're closing in. Get the sense of an animal at bay!
BENSINGER: Sort of a Jack London style?
TRUCKING SHOT: Leads him hurriedly to the door.
BURNS: Leads him hurriedly to the door.
BENSINGER: I got my rhyming dictionary in
BURNS: ( getting him to door ) It doesn't have to rhyme!
BENSINGER: Gee, I'm terribly grateful, Mister Burns. Do you suppose there might be an opening some time as foreign correspondent? I parley a little French, you know. I'll keep you in mind.
BURNS: I'll keep you in mind.
BENSINGER: ( going ) Au revoir, mon capitaine.
BURNS: ( never at a loss in any language ) Bon jour!
BURNS: Mademoiselle from Armontieres, parlay
MED. SHOT: Burns returns alertly to table, not noticing that Hildy has stopped typing, and sits staring moodily before her.
BURNS: ( into phono ) Duffy! Got this!
BURNS: A rat from the Tribune is coming over to get a job Bensinger, the guy I told you about. Handle him with kid gloves. Tell him to get busy writing poetry. No, we don't want him. Stall him along until the extra comes out. Then tell him his poetry stinks and kick him downstairs.
WIDER ANGLE: taking in Hildy. She looks up at him.
HILDY: ( to Burns ) Double-crossing swine!
BURNS: You said it! But this'll teach him a lesson. He won't quit his paper without giving notice after this.
BURNS: Tear into it, will you? Don't sit there like a frozen robin!
HILDY: I'm finished.
BURNS: He grabs the last sheet of paper out of her typewriter, kisses her and rushes over to the telephone.
CLOSEUP BURNS: at phone.
BURNS: ( into phone ) Duffy! All right here we go! And got it out as soon as you can. I want this paper out on the streets in half an hour! ( reading Hildy's copy ) "So once more the Morning Post "
HILDY: Bruce ought to be back by now. Walter, you're not trying anything again, are you?
BURNS: ( coming over to her ) Hildy, you think I could? After this ( taking a flask from his pocket ) Here! You're just nervous.
BURNS: Who is it?
LOUIE'S VOICE: It's me, Boss Louie.
BURNS: ( opening the door ) It's Louie!
BURNS: ( seeing Louie's disarray ) What's the matter?
HILDY: ( frantically ) Where's Mrs. Baldwin?
BURNS: What did you do with her?
HILDY: ( almost afraid to speak ) What happened?
BURNS: You been in a fight?
LOUIE: ( still out of breath ) Down Western Avenue. We were going sixty-five miles an hour. You know what I mean?
BURNS: Take that mush out of your mouth!
HILDY: Where's the old lady?
LOUIE: I'm telling you!
LOUIE: We run smack into a police patrol. You know what I mean? We broke it in Oh-h-h. was she hurt?
HILDY: ( moaning ) Oh-h-h. was she hurt?
BURNS: Where is she? Tell me!
HILDY: I'm telling you. Can you imagine bumping into a load of cops?! They come rollin' out like oranges!
LOUIE: I'm telling you. Can you imagine bumping into a load of cops?! They come rollin' out like oranges!
HILDY: ( seizing him ) What did you do with her?
LOUIE: Search me! When I come to I was running down Thirty-fifth Street.
HILDY: You were with her. You were in the cab, weren't you?
LOUIE: ( exposing his bruised scalp ) Was I? The driver got knocked cold.
BURNS: Butter-fingers! I give you an old lady to take somewhere, and you hand her over to the cops!
LOUIE: What do you mean, I handed her? The patrol wagon was on the wrong side of the street.
BURNS: Now everything's fine. She's probably squawking her head off in some police I don't think she's talking much. You know what I mean?
LOUIE: I don't think she's talking much. You know what I mean?
HILDY: ( paralyzed ) Don't tell me was she killed?
BURNS: ( hopefully ) Was she? Did you notice?
LOUIE: Say, me with a gun on my hip and a kidnapped old lady on my hands, I should stick around asking questions from a lot of cops! You know what I
HILDY: Dead. dead! That's the end!
BURNS: It's Fate, Hildy. What will be, will What am I going to say to Bruce? What'll I tell him?
HILDY: ( wildly ) What am I going to say to Bruce? What'll I tell him?
BURNS: If he really loves you, you won't have to tell him anything. Snap out of it! Would you rather have had the old dame dragging the whole police force in here?
HILDY: I killed her. I'm responsible. Oh- h. what can I do now? How can I ever face him? Oh, I hope he never comes back!
BURNS: Look at me, Hildy
HILDY: ( springing up ) I'm looking at you you murderer!
BURNS: If it was my own mother, I'd carry on! You know I would. For the paper!
HILDY: ( calling off to Louie ) Louie, where'd it happen? I'm going
BURNS: ( grabbing Hildy ) You stay here. I'll find out ( to Hildy ) Western an' Thirty-fourth.
LOUIE: ( to Hildy ) Western an' Thirty-fourth.
BURNS: ( into phone ) Hello hello.
HILDY: ( into phone ) Gimme Western four-five-five-seven.
BURNS: ( guarded ) ( wildly ) Hello, Butch! Where are you?
HILDY: ( into phone ) Mission Hospital? Gimme the Receiving ( into phone ) What are you doing there? Haven't you even started?
BURNS: ( into phone ) What are you doing there? Haven't you even started?
HILDY: ( into phone ) Hello Eddie? Hildy Johnson. Was there an old lady brought in from an auto smashup?
BURNS: ( into phone ) Oh, for ( yelling ) H. Sebastian Butch! Listen, it's a matter of life and death! Listen!
HILDY: ( into phone ) ( jiggles hook ) Morningside three-one-two-four.
BURNS: ( into phone ) I can't hear. You got who? Speak up! A what?. You can't stop for a dame now!
HILDY: ( into phone ) Is this the Community Hospital?
BURNS: ( howling into phone ) I don't care if you've been after her for six years! Butch, our whole lives are at stake! Are you going to let a woman come between us after all we've been through?
HILDY: ( into phone ) Hello, Max, Hildy Johnson. Was there an old lady ?
BURNS: ( into phone, drowning out Hildy ) Butch! I'd put my arm in fire for you up to here! ( indicates up to where ) Now, you can't double-cross me!. She does? All right put her on. I'll talk to her. Hello! Oh, hello, Madam. Now listen, you ten-cent glamour girl, you can't keep Butch away from his duty. What's that? You say that again and I'll come over there and knock your eye out! ( turning, as he hangs up ) I'll kill 'em! I'll kill both of ( into Post phone ) ( to the universe ) Mousing around with some big blonde Annie on my time! That's co-operation! ( screaming into phone ) Shut up, will you? ( into phone ) You sure? Nobody?
HILDY: Shut up, will you? You sure? Nobody?
BURNS: ( into phone ) ( listening ) ( into phone ) ( listening ) Well, where is Duffy? ( throwing receiver to desk ) Diabetes! I ought to know better than to hire anybody with a disease. ( turning ) ( to Louie ) It's up to you.
BURNS: ( to Louie ) It's up to you.
LOUIE: ( loyally ) Anything you want, Boss.
BURNS: Beat it out and get hold of some Who do you want?
LOUIE: Who do you want?
BURNS: ( starting for the door, followed by Louie ) Anybody with hair on his chest. Get 'em off the street anywhere. Offer them anything only get them. ( confidentially ) We've got to get this desk out of
LOUIE: You know me. The shirt off my back.
BURNS: You got plenty of money?
LOUIE: Sure, boss.
BURNS: I mean real money not counterfeit!
LOUIE: I always have both.
BURNS: ( calling after him ) And don't bump into anything.
HILDY: Lafayette two-one-hundred.
BURNS: ( turning from door ) That dumb immigrant'll flop on me. I know it. ( bitterly ) Can you imagine Butch doing this to me at a time like this?
BURNS: ( confidentially ) If Louie doesn't come back in five minutes we'll get it out alone. There's millions of ways. We can start a fire and get the firemen to carry it out in the confusion.
HILDY: ( into phone ) Ring that number, will you?
BURNS: ( to Hildy, oblivious of her telephoning ) Come here. See if we can move it.
HILDY: ( into phone ) Hello hello! Is this the Lying In Hospital? Did you have an auto accident in the last
BURNS: ( interrupting ) Will you come here?
HILDY: ( into phone ) Oh, I see. I beg your pardon.
BURNS: When I'm surrounded, with my back against the wall, you're not going to lay down on me, are you
HILDY: She jiggles the phone hook.
BURNS: ( going to her ) Hildy, you just can't leave me out on a limb now. It it wouldn't be I don't care what you say. I'm going to find Bruce's mother. ( she jiggles the hook madly ) ( she hangs up ) I'm going out and find her!
HILDY: I don't care what you say. I'm going to find Bruce's mother. I'm going out and find her!
BURNS: ( coming into scene after Hildy ) Don't open that!
HILDY: ( at the door ) Who says so? I'm going to the morgue to look
MURPHY: There she is!
MCCUE: Say, Hildy.
HARTMAN: Just a minute, Johnson!
HILDY: Let go o' me. What's the idea?
MCCUE: What's your hurry?
MURPHY: We want to see you.
HILDY: Take your paws off me!
HARTMAN: Hold her, boys!
BURNS: ( to Sheriff ) Who do you think you are, breaking in here like this?
HARTMAN: You can't bluff me, Burns. I don't care who you are or what paper you're editor of.
HILDY: ( struggling ) Let me go! ( hysterically ) Fellows, something's happened to my Hang onto her! Keep her in here!
HARTMAN: Hang onto her! Keep her in here!
MED. SHOT: as Hildy breaks loose and retreats back into the room before Hartman and the deputies.
MCCUE: We know what you're up to.
ENDICOTT: Probably goin' out to get Williams.
SCHWARTZ: The door was locked.
WILSON: She and Mollie were talking.
HILDY: I don't know anything, I tell you. There's been an accident.
HARTMAN: Johnson, there's something very peculiar going on.
HILDY: You can send somebody with me if you don't believe me!
HARTMAN: I wasn't born yesterday. Now the boys tell me you and this Mollie Nobody's trying to put anything over on you. I'm getting out of here and you can't stop me!
HILDY: Nobody's trying to put anything over on you. I'm getting out of here and you can't stop me!
MURPHY: ( comes into scene ) You're not going anywhere. ( to the Sheriff ) She's got the story sewed up, Pete. ( indicating Burns ) That's why Burns is here.
SCHWARTZ: We're on to you, Hildy. Let us in on If you've any accusations to make, Hartman, make them in the proper manner. Otherwise, I'll have to ask you to get out.
BURNS: ( purring ) If you've any accusations to make, Hartman, make them in the proper manner. Otherwise, I'll have to ask you to get out.
HARTMAN: ( pop-eyed; stammering ) You'll ask me to what?
BURNS: Get out!
HARTMAN: ( to deputies, off ) Close that door. Don't let anybody in or out.
MURPHY: Come on, Pinky! Give 'em a little third degree.
ENDICOTT: Make them talk and you got Williams, Johnson, I'm going to the bottom of this. What do you know about Williams? Are you going to talk or aren't you?
HARTMAN: Johnson, I'm going to the bottom of this. What do you know about Williams? Are you going to talk or aren't you?
HILDY: What do I know about Williams?
HARTMAN: All right, boys. Take her along. I got ways of making her talk.
HILDY: Look out, you
MCCUE: ( nervously ) What's the use of fighting, Hildy?
DEPUTIES: Hey, she's got a gun! Look out, she's got a gun! No, you don't! Walter!
HILDY: ( trying to face in all directions ) No, you don't! Walter!
BURNS: What is it? Here!
HARTMAN: Gimme that.
CLOSER SHOT: The Sheriff stands frozen, staring at the gun.
HARTMAN: ( to Hildy ) Where'd you get this?
HILDY: I've got a right to carry a gun if I want to.
HARTMAN: Not this gun!
BURNS: ( easily ) I can explain that, Hartman. When Hildy told me she wanted to interview Earl Williams I thought it might be dangerous and I gave her a gun to defend herself.
HARTMAN: Oh, you did! Well, that's very, very interesting. This happens to be the gun that Earl Williams shot his way out with!
BURNS: ( advancing on Sheriff ) Are you trying to make me out a liar?
MURPHY: ( bitterly at Hildy ) It's the last time I ever trust a woman, Hildy.
SCHWARTZ: Maybe Williams was gonna be her best That's pretty rotten, Hildy. Crossing your own pals.
WILSON: That's pretty rotten, Hildy. Crossing your own pals.
HARTMAN: ( shoving up to Hildy; trembling ) Where is Earl Williams? Where you got him?
BURNS: ( sympathetically ) You're barking up the wrong tree, I'll give you three minutes to tell me where he is.
HARTMAN: I'll give you three minutes to tell me where he is.
HILDY: He went over to the hospital to call on Professor Egelhoffer.
HARTMAN: ( outraged ) With a bag of marshmallows.
HILDY: With a bag of marshmallows.
HARTMAN: ( grabbing Burns' arm ) Speak up! What do you know about ( gently but firmly disengaging his hand ) My dear Hartman! Can that! Where is he?
BURNS: ( gently but firmly disengaging his hand ) My dear Hartman! Can that! Where is he?
MURPHY: Can that! Where is he?
BURNS: ( to Sheriff ) The Morning Post is not obstructing justice or hiding criminals. You ought to know that.
HARTMAN: No? Well Johnson, you're under arrest. You, too, Burns.
BURNS: ( calmly ) Who's under arrest? You pimple-headed, square-toed spy do you realize what you're doing?
HARTMAN: I'll show you what I'm doing. Burns, you're guilty of obstructing justice and so is the Morning Post. I'm going to see that the Post is fined ten thousand dollars for this.
BURNS: You'll see nothing of the kind, We'll just start by impounding the Post property. Is that your desk?
HARTMAN: We'll just start by impounding the Post property. Is that your desk?
HILDY: ( jumping ) ( almost simultaneously ) Yes! What are you afraid of Hildy? I dare him to move that desk out of Oh, you do, eh? ( to deputies ) All right, boys. Confiscate that
BURNS: ( almost simultaneously ) Yes! What are you afraid of Hildy? I dare him to move that desk out of Oh, you do, eh? ( to deputies ) All right, boys. Confiscate that
HARTMAN: Oh, you do, eh? All right, boys. Confiscate that
BURNS: ( trying to intercept deputies ) Hartman, if you take this desk out of this building, I'll put you behind You will, eh? Well, we'll see about ( to deputies ) All right, boys. Take it.
HARTMAN: You will, eh? Well, we'll see about All right, boys. Take it.
BURNS: I'm warning you it'll be a Federal And you'll be an accessory!
HARTMAN: We'll take a chance on that, Burns. Go ahead, boys.
MRS. BALDWIN: You wait outside, Bruce.
BRUCE: But, mother
MRS. BALDWIN: ( firmly ) No! You'll weaken when you see that little Jezebel! I'm going to tell her what I think of her!
HILDY: ( leaping forward ) ( pointing out Burns to the officers ) That man there!
MRS. BALDWIN: ( pointing out Burns to the officers ) That man there!
HILDY: ( hugging Mrs. Baldwin ) Mother! Oh, I'm so glad to see you! Are you all right? Tell me.
HARTMAN: What's the idea here?
POLICEMAN: This lady claims she was kidnapped.
HARTMAN: MRS. BALDWIN ( points to Burns ) MRS. BALDWIN ( amazed )
MRS. BALDWIN: They dragged me all the way down the Just a minute. Did did this man have anything to do with He was the one in charge of everything! He told them to kidnap Are you referring to me, Madam?
HARTMAN: Just a minute. Did did this man have anything to do with He was the one in charge of everything! He told them to kidnap Are you referring to me, Madam?
MRS. BALDWIN: He was the one in charge of everything! He told them to kidnap Are you referring to me, Madam?
BURNS: ( amazed ) Are you referring to me, Madam?
MRS. BALDWIN: You know you did!
HARTMAN: What about this, Burns? Kidnapping, Oh, trying to frame me, eh! I never saw this woman before in my life!
BURNS: ( round-eyed ) Oh, trying to frame me, eh! I never saw this woman before in my life!
MRS. BALDWIN: Oh, what a thing to say! I was standing right here - after the girl jumped out of the window.
HARTMAN: Did you get the Mayor?
DEPUTY: He's coming over.
BURNS: ( to Mrs. Baldwin ) Now, Madam be honest. If you were out joy-riding, drunk, and got into some scrape, why don't you admit it, instead of accusing innocent people?
MRS. BALDWIN: ( beginning to doubt her senses ) You ruffian! How dare you say a thing like that?
HILDA: Please, Mother, he's just crazy!
MRS. BALDWIN: ( to Sheriff ) I'll tell you something more. I'll tell you why they did it!
BURNS: ( fidgeting ) Come on, Sheriff. We've got to get ( continuing crescendo ) I was in here and they had some kind of murderer in with them. They were hiding him!
MRS. BALDWIN: ( continuing crescendo ) I was in here and they had some kind of murderer in with them. They were hiding him!
HARTMAN: Hiding him? In here?
MURPHY: Hiding him where?
HILDY: Where was he?. Where'd they have him?. Etc.
REPORTERS: Where was he?. Where'd they have him?. Etc.
BURNS: ( with superb indignation ) Madam, you're a cockeyed liar! And you know it!
MED. SHOT: Burns advances from desk, the others retreating before him.
BURNS: ( anxiously ) Come on, Sheriff, we've got to get
HARTMAN: ( whispering ) What was that?
HARTMAN: Aha! I thought so! Stand back, Look out, Sheriff. He may shoot!
DEPUTY: Look out, Sheriff. He may shoot!
HARTMAN: Get your guns out!
HILDY: He's harmless.
HARTMAN: Don't take any chances. Shoot through the desk.
HILDY: He can't hurt anybody. You've got his gun.
MRS. BALDWIN: ( panic-stricken ) Oh, dear! Oh, dear!
BURNS: You grey-haired old Judas!
MRS. BALDWIN: Let me out! Let me out of here!
HARTMAN: ( to policeman ) You stand there!
MURPHY'S VOICE: City Desk! Quick!
SCHWARTZ' VOICE: Gimme the Desk!
HARTMAN: ( to another policeman ) You there!
ENDICOTT'S VOICE: City Desk! Hurry!
MCCUE'S VOICE: Gimme Emil.
HARTMAN: ( to a Deputy, pointing with his gun toward the window ) You cover the window.
MURPHY'S VOICE: Look out where you're pointing that
WILSON'S VOICE: Lemme have the Desk! Quick!
MURPHY'S VOICE: Hold the wire! I've got a flash for Call Duffy!
BURNS: ( to Hildy ) Call Duffy!
HARTMAN: No, you don't!
BURNS: ( to Sheriff, furiously ) Do you want to get us scooped?
MCCUE'S VOICE: Emil? Hang on for a second.
HARTMAN: Now then, everybody aim at the center. And when I say three
HILDY: That's murder!
HARTMAN: ( changing his mind ) All right! Carl! Frank! One of you get on each side of the desk. Take hold of the cover.
HARTMAN: Now then! We got you covered, Williams. Don't try to move. Now! Everybody quiet and ready for an emergency. I'm going to count three.
SCHWARTZ: Hold it! Something coming up.
HARTMAN: Hold the phone!
ENDICOTT: Hold the phone!
MURPHY: ( into the phone ) I'll have it in a minute.
HARTMAN: ( into phone ) Right away now!
WILSON: ( into phone ) Right away now!
HARTMAN: ( turning back to desk ) Everybody ready? All right. Now then, up with it.
HARTMAN: Got you, Williams!
WILLIAMS: ( a wail ) Go on shoot me!
MEDIUM SHOT: as the police and deputies come in to assist the Sheriff. The reporters are telephoning in, the police shouting all the voices mixing in, in incredible confusion, as the Sheriff rushes Williams to the door and takes him out.
MURPHY'S VOICE: Earl Williams was just captured in the Press Room of the Criminal Courts Building, hiding in a desk.
MCCUE: ( into phone ) .Williams in a rolltop
WILSON: ( into phone ) nabbed Williams hiding
ENDICOTT'S VOICE: found Williams' hiding place.
SCHWARTZ' VOICE: He offered no resistance.
MCCUE: ( into phone ) Williams put up a desperate struggle but the police overpowered
MURPHY: ( into phone ) tried to shoot it out with the cops but his gun wouldn't work, so
WILSON'S VOICE: trying to break through the cordon of police
ENDICOTT: ( into phone ) Williams was unconscious when they opened the desk
CLOSEUP BURNS: grabbing the Post phone.
BURNS: ( into phone ) Duffy! The Morning Post just turned Earl Williams over to the Sheriff.
BURNS: ( into phone )
HARTMAN: ( indicating Burns and Hildy ) Put the cuffs on those two!
ENDICOTT: An anonymous note received by the Sheriff led to Williams' capture. More later.
MURPHY: ( into phone ) An old sweetheart of Williams' doublecrossed him. Call you back.
REPORTERS: Where's that old lady? Hey, Madam! Where'd she go? Where's the old dame? Etc., etc. They run out after Mrs. Baldwin, the Mayor entering just after they go. Burns and Hildy, handcuffed together, stand near the Hello, girlie gimme Cooley. Quick!
HARTMAN: ( into phone ) Hello, girlie gimme Cooley. Quick!
BURNS: Hartwell, you're going to wish you'd never been born!
MAYOR: Fine work, Pete! You certainly delivered the goods. I'm proud of Look kind o' natural, don't they, A sight for sore eyes!
HARTMAN: ( holding the phone ) Look kind o' natural, don't they, ( happily ) A sight for sore eyes!
MAYOR: ( happily ) A sight for sore eyes!
HARTMAN: ( rolling in catnip ) Aiding an escaped criminal! And a little charge of kidnapping I'm looking into. ( into phone; suddenly ) But that's the jail! There must be somebody there!
MAYOR: Well! Looks like about ten years apiece for you birds!
BURNS: Does it? You forget the power that always watches over the Morning Post.
MAYOR: Your luck's not with you now!
HARTMAN: ( into phone ) Cooley?. I caught Williams single- handed we're going to proceed with the hanging per schedule!
BURNS: ( to Mayor ) You're going to be in office for exactly two days more and then we're pulling your nose out of the feed ( into phone ) Give me the District Attorney's ( to Burns ) I'll tell you what you'll be doing making brooms in the State ( into phone ) Hello, D'Arrasty! This is Hartwell. Come over to my office, will you? I've just arrested a couple of important birds and I want to take their confessions.
HARTMAN: ( into phone ) Give me the District Attorney's ( to Burns ) I'll tell you what you'll be doing making brooms in the State ( into phone ) Hello, D'Arrasty! This is Hartwell. Come over to my office, will you? I've just arrested a couple of important birds and I want to take their confessions.
BURNS: ( into phone ) Duffy! Get Liebowitz!
MAYOR: All the lawyers in the world aren't going to help you!
BURNS: This is the Morning Post you're talking to!
MAYOR: ( enjoying himself ) The power of the press, huh!
BURNS: ( at the Mayor ) Bigger men than you have found out what the power of the press is. President!. Yes and Kings!
PINKUS: ( woozy; handing Sheriff the reprieve over his shoulder ) Here's your reprieve.
MAYOR: ( in a panic ) Get out of here!
PINKUS: You can't bribe me!
BURNS: What's this?
HARTMAN: Get out of here, you!
PINKUS: I won't. Here's your reprieve.
HILDY: I don't want to be City Sealer. I don't like seals anyhow. They smell.
PINKUS: I don't want to be City Sealer. I don't like seals anyhow. They smell.
MAYOR: Who is this man?
HARTMAN: ( to an officer ) Throw him out, Frank.
HILDY: ( seizing Pinkus with her free hand ) Who was bribing you?
PINKUS: They wouldn't take it.
MAYOR: You're insane!
BURNS: ( triumphant ) What did I tell you? An unseen power! ( to Pinkus ) What's your name?
PINKUS: Silas F. Pinkus.
MAYOR: You drunken idiot! Arrest him! The idea of coming here with a cock-and- bull story like that!
HARTMAN: It's a frame-up! Some imposter!
HILDY: Wait a minute! Let go there!
BURNS: ( to Sheriff and Mayor ) Murder, uh?
HILDY: Hanging an innocent man to win an That's a lie!!
HARTMAN: That's a lie!!
MAYOR: I never saw him before!
BURNS: ( to Pinkus ) When did you deliver this first?
HILDY: Who did you talk to?
PINKUS: They started right in bribing me!
HILDY: Who's 'they'?
PINKUS: ( indicating the Mayor and Sheriff ) That's absurd on the face of it, Mr. Burns! He's talking like a child.
MAYOR: That's absurd on the face of it, Mr. Burns! He's talking like a child.
BURNS: Out of the mouths of babes.
MAYOR: He's insane or drunk or something. Why, if this unfortunate man, Williams, has really been reprieved, I personally am tickled to death. Aren't you, Pete?
HILDY: Go on, you'd kill your mother to get That's a horrible thing to say, Miss Johnson, about anybody! Now, look here, Walter, you're an intelligent man
MAYOR: That's a horrible thing to say, Miss Johnson, about anybody! Now, look here, Walter, you're an intelligent man
BURNS: ( interrupting ) Just a minute. ( to Pinkus ) All right, Mr. Pinkus. Let's have your story.
PINKUS: Well, I been married for ten years Skip all that.
BURNS: ( interrupting ) Skip all that.
MAYOR: ( loudly ) Take those handcuffs off our friends, Pete. That wasn't at all necessary.
HARTMAN: ( springing to obey ) I was just going to!
MAYOR: Walter, I can't tell you how badly I feel about this. There was no excuse for Hartwell to fly off the handle.
HARTMAN: ( unlocking the handcuffs ) I was only doing my duty. Nothing personal in it.
HILDY: You guys better quit politics and take in washing.
MAYOR: ( looking over the reprieve ) Sheriff, this document is authentic! Earl Williams has been reprieved, this Commonwealth has been spared the painful necessity of shedding Save that for the Tribune.
BURNS: Save that for the Tribune.
MAYOR: ( to Pinkus ) What did you say your name was That's right.
PINKUS: That's right.
PINKUS: Here's the picture of my wife.
MAYOR: A very fine-looking women.
PINKUS: ( mysteriously angered ) She's good enough for me! And if I was to go home and tell my wife
MAYOR: I understand perfectly, Mr. Pinkus, and as long as I am Mayor
BURNS: Which ought to be about three hours more, I'd say.
HILDY: Just until we can get out a special edition asking for your impeachment.
BURNS: And your arrest. You'll each get about ten years, I think.
MAYOR: Don't make any hasty decisions, Mr. Burns, you might run into a thumping big libel suit.
HILDY: You're going to run into the Governor.
MAYOR: ( trying to brush it off ) Now, my old friend the Governor and I understand each other perfectly.
HARTMAN: ( eagerly ) And so do I!
MAYOR: ( with superb contempt ) So do you what, you hoodoo! ( to Pinkus, suavely ) And now, Mr. Pinkus, if you'll come with us, we'll take you over to the Warden's office and deliver this
BURNS: ( dreamily ) Wait till those two future jailbirds read the Morning Post tomorrow.
HILDY: How was that for a tight squeeze?
BURNS: Don't tell me you were worried!
HILDY: Worried! I was petrified. Weren't Uh-uh. As long as we were in there together pitching they couldn't lick us. Well, it's been a lot of In a way.
BURNS: Uh-uh. As long as we were in there together pitching they couldn't lick us. Well, it's been a lot of In a way.
HILDY: In a way.
BURNS: ( laughs ) I mean working together. Just like the old days. The things we've been through, Hildy.
HILDY: We've certainly been in some swell Remember the time we broke into the D.A.'s office, and copied Fifi Randell's diary?
BURNS: Remember the time we broke into the D.A.'s office, and copied Fifi Randell's diary?
HILDY: Yeah. What about the time we hid the missing heiress in the sauerkraut factory? Six scoop interviews!
BURNS: Yeah - but that time we stole Old Lady Haggerty's stomach off the Coroner's physician. We proved she was poisoned though, didn't we?
HILDY: ( laughing ) We sure did, but we had to go in hiding for a week.
BURNS: In the Shoreland Hotel. And our only chaperon was the poor old lady's Don't remind me. That's how we happened to
HILDY: Don't remind me. That's how we happened to
BURNS: Sorry, Hildy. I didn't mean to be making love to another man's fiancee.
HILDY: That's all right, Walter. It's as much my fault as yours.
BURNS: ( glancing at the clock ) Bruce is making the nine o'clock train. I told him you'd be on it unless you want to write this story Well, if it's my last story, I'd like it to be a good one. But I guess I can't, Walter.
HILDY: Well, if it's my last story, I'd like it to be a good one. But I guess I can't, Walter.
BURNS: Suit yourself, kid. This isn't for me to decide. Of course, you could make a later train and still be in Albany tomorrow morning.
HILDY: Yeah. I suppose I could. But, Walter
BURNS: He's going to have you the rest of his life, Hildy. Can't you give me another hour?
HILDY: I don't know what to do, Walter.
BURNS: Flip a coin.
HILDY: All right. Heads I go tails I stay to write the story. Ready?
CLOSEUP BURNS: gazing nervously at the hand holding the coin.
BURNS: CLOSE SHOT BURNS AND HILDY She flips and catches the coin. She holds it tightly clasped in her hand, afraid to look. They stare at each other a
BURNS: ( nervously ) Well what is it?
HILDY: ( almost breaking ) What's the difference? I'm going to write that story and you know it!
BURNS: ( furiously ) Don't touch me! I'm not doing it for ( softly ) Then why are you doing it?
HILDY: ( furiously ) Don't touch me! I'm not doing it for ( softly ) Then why are you doing it?
BURNS: ( softly ) Then why are you doing it?
HILDY: Because I'm a newspaper woman, Heaven help me!
MONTAGE SHOTS: INT. CITY ROOM - Hildy typing away furiously. Copy Boy tearing sheets from her typewriter as she writes. Burns coming in and tearing sheets from typewriter. Linetype machines. Presses going. Headline: THE POST SAVES EARL WILLIAMS!
BURNS: ( enthusiastically ) The greatest yarn ever written by anybody. My hat's off to you, Hildy!
HILDY: ( grimly ) And what a way to quit. While you're still champion! That's the way to leave, Hildy!
BURNS: And what a way to quit. While you're still champion! That's the way to leave, Hildy!
HILDY: Yeah. Only only I'm not leaving, What do you mean? Bruce'll be waiting for you in Albany.
BURNS: What do you mean? Bruce'll be waiting for you in Albany.
HILDY: No, he won't. I wired him that I wasn't coming.
CLOSEUP BURNS: Where'd you wire him?
BURNS: Where'd you wire him?
HILDY: On the nine o'clock train. That's the one he took, isn't it?
BURNS: MED. SHOT
MED. SHOT: It's awfully clear now. Bruce needs a wife who can give him a home and affection and peace. I couldn't do that for him, Walter. I'm what you made me a cheap reporter who'd give up her soul for a story!. Is that job still open?
HILDY: It's awfully clear now. Bruce needs a wife who can give him a home and affection and peace. I couldn't do that for him, Walter. I'm what you made me a cheap reporter who'd give up her soul for a story!. Is that job still open?
BURNS: Both jobs are open, Hildy. The paper and being Mrs. Walter Burns.
HILDY: Thanks, Walter, but it's no good. We tried it.
BURNS: Sure, it was good it was wonderful! Only you expected it to be like other marriages. It can't be like other marriages we're different! We're a different world. Look at what we went through today. I wouldn't trade that for any honeymoon in the world. I bet you wouldn't, either.
HILDY: A fine honeymoon, with a murderer right in the boudoir! And that other honeymoon in a coal mine!
BURNS: That's what makes it romantic. Every other married couple goes away on a honeymoon and for two weeks the bride knows just where the groom is, and vice versa. But us you never know where I am and I'm not sure where you are. That's Romance!
HILDY: Well, maybe I'd like to know just Hildy, if that's what you want, all right. We'll even go to how about Niagara Falls?
BURNS: Hildy, if that's what you want, all right. We'll even go to how about Niagara Falls?
HILDY: ( jumping ) Niagara Falls! Walter, you don't mean that?
BURNS: Sure I do. And I'll tell you something else I'd like a baby.
HILDY: Sure, I can't last forever. I want a son I can train to take my place on this paper.
BURNS: Sure, I can't last forever. I want a son I can train to take my place on this paper.
HILDY: What would you do if it was a Well, if she looked like you Say! My brains and your looks that mightn't be such a bad combination.
BURNS: Well, if she looked like you Say! My brains and your looks that mightn't be such a bad combination.
HILDY: What's the matter with my brains?
BURNS: What's the good of arguing about something that probably doesn't exist? Look, Hildy, I'm proposing to you. What do you say?
HILDY: Well, I'd like to be lady-like and think it over.
BURNS: I don't want to rush you. Take a couple of seconds.
BURNS: Hello, Judge!
JUDGE: This is an outrage, Mr. Burns! Sending a gunman to kidnap me!
BURNS: Now, wait a minute, Judge. This isn't a kidnapping. You've got the legal power to perform a marriage ceremony, haven't you?
HILDY: Now don't argue, Hildy. How about it, Judge?
BURNS: Now don't argue, Hildy. How about it, Judge?
JUDGE: Yes, but
BURNS: Then go ahead. Come on, Hildy.
HILDY: Nobody's going to rush me into You keep away from me!
LOUIE: All right, Judge.
1ST REPORTER: I'll be doggoned! A shotgun marriage!
2ND REPORTER: Don't they usually keep the gun on the man?
JUDGE: ( continuing ) " so long as you both do live?"
BURNS: I will.
GROUP SHOT: That's what he said the last time. Don't believe him, Judge.
HILDY: That's what he said the last time. Don't believe him, Judge.
BURNS: Hildy, from this time on no tricks, no double-crossing everything on the level!
HILDY: You're not fooling anybody.
JUDGE: ( continuing ) "Hildegarde Johnson, will you have this man as your wedded husband, to live together in the ordinances and estate of Matrimony?"
HILDY: What would you do with a gun in your "Will you love him, comfort him, honor and keep him in sickness or in If I know where he is.
LOUIE: ( poking her ) "Will you love him, comfort him, honor and keep him in sickness or in If I know where he is.
JUDGE: "Will you love him, comfort him, honor and keep him in sickness or in If I know where he is.
HILDY: If I know where he is.
JUDGE: " and, forsaking all others, keep thee only unto him, so long as you both do live?"
HILDY: I will if he will.
JUDGE: ( to Burns ) Have you got a ring?
BURNS: ( he takes ring off ) How about Bruce's?
HILDY: Walter, you can't do that!
BURNS: Sure, I can. Look at the policy I gave him! "With this ring I thee wed and with all my worldly goods I thee endow: And thereto I plight thee my troth."
REPORTER: Say, I'm surprised she got the ring " pronounce you Man and Wife."
JUDGE: " pronounce you Man and Wife."
BURNS: Hildy, darling!
HILDY: Yes 'Hildy, darling'. I'm just a fool. That's what I am. I know what it's going to be like.
BURNS: It'll be Heaven!
HILDY: Sure, Heaven! You've probably thought up another coal mine to send me down in to get a new story for your
CLOSEUP HILDY: She stops cold.
HILDY: INSERT: NEWSPAPER "Attempting to pass five hundred dollars worth of counterfeit money at the Union station, a man giving his name as Bruce Baldwin of Albany, New York, was arrested last night "
HILDY: Counterfeit money! That's the money you sent me, Walter! You you
WALTER: ( starting to run ) But, Hildy, listen
BURNS: But, Hildy I can explain
HILDY: You you!!
LOUIE: I think it's going to work out all right this time.
THE END: Writers : Ben Hecht Charles MacArthur
