SEBASTIAN: Sebastian pears out his window. Across the courtyard, a light comes on in a neighboring window. He sees a BRUNETTE, mid-twenties, absolutely stunning, enter her living room. The Brunette thumbs through the mail, tosses it and then begins to undress. Sebastian loans over to the window, getting interested. But when the brunette reaches her bra and panties, she crosses to the window and lowers her shades. Sebastian leans back in his chair and closes his eyes. He s obviously tired. He opens his eyes and stares up at the ceiling. Painted across the white matte finish in big red letters is a brief reminder - You Should Be Working. Sebastian sighs, leans forward and begins pecking away again.
SEBASTIAN: ( beat ) I am a goddamn genius. He hits a few more keys and a telephone keypad appears on the screen. He dials.
LINDA: Sebastian, do you know what time it You know Da Vinci never slept. Said it was waste of time.
LINDA: What is it this time?
SEBASTIAN: Who s that? Linda pulls the camera off the top of the of the computer screen and positions it so Sebastian can t see the bed.
LINDA: Not your business. Not anymore.
SEBASTIAN: So you calling about anything in particular, or were you just hoping to catch me sleeping in the nude?
LINDA: So you calling about anything in particular, or were you just hoping to catch me sleeping in the nude?
SEBASTIAN: I cracked the reversion. Upon hearing this, Linda receives a jolt of adrenaline.
LINDA: You cracked it?
SEBASTIAN: Look at this. Sebastian hits a couple of keys. A moment later the molecular structure appears on Linda s computer.
SEBASTIAN: Watch this.
LINDA: You sure?
SEBASTIAN: 91% sure.
LINDA: ( astonished ) Eleven months with no progress and you suddenly come up with it out of the blue? How?
SEBASTIAN: The usual. Coffee and twinkies.
LINDA: I hate you.
SEBASTIAN: I know. You think you could hunt down Matt and get to the lab early. I want Isabelle prepped for a live test.
LINDA: Yeah, I think I can find him. What are you going to do?
SEBASTIAN: Well y know. It s daylight in Switzerland. I gotta call the Nobel Committee and tell them to get our prizes ready. See you in a few. ON LINDA S COMPUTER SCREEN as Sebastian clicks off. Linda crosses to her bed, and shakes the guy awake.
LINDA: Hey. come on. DR. MATTHEW KENSINGTON, late 20s too, stirs from under Sebastian just called. We gotta get to the lab. Matt bolts up.
MATT: ( groggy ) Sebastian just called. We gotta get to the lab. Matt bolts up.
LINDA: Sebastian just called. We gotta get to the lab. Matt bolts up.
MATT: Shit! You didn t tell him I was here, did you?
LINDA: Give me some credit, will ya.
MATT: So what s the rush?
LINDA: He cracked reversion. Matt pulls his jeans on.
MATT: Wanna ride down?
LINDA: We better take our own cars.
MATT: You re gonna have to tell him about us I know. It s just You re his best friend. He ll feel betrayed.
LINDA: I know. It s just You re his best friend. He ll feel betrayed.
MARINE GUARD: Morning, sir.
SEBASTIAN: Morning, Ed.
MARINE GUARD: Your team s in early. Something special going on?
SEBASTIAN: Sorry, Ed. You know the rules. Sebastian presses his thumb against a glass screen. A laser reads his print. Scan readout: CAINE, SEBASTIAN Clearance: ALPHA ALPHA THREE Division: CLASSIFIED The doors whisk open and Sebastian steps inside.
MARINE GUARD: Have a good day, sir.
SEBASTIAN: Caine zero zero two seven.
MATT: Isabelle . The woodchips on the floor shift and suddenly the Plexiglas steams up right in front of Matt s face. The Plexiglas begins to shake violently. Calm down baby. Calm down. It s Matt takes a pair of thermal goggles from his belt and pulls them down over his eyes. THERMAL POV - A rather large heat signature, ape-like in shape, rattles about the cage. Matt slowly unlatches the Plexiglas door and reaches inside. It s okay, baby. It s okay. I m not going to hurt you. Come here. THERMAL POV - he reaches out to the creature. He grabs hold of it, firmly. Stroking it. The creature COOS. Matt reaches for a hypo and brings it up to the creature. Just hold still. Something clamps down on his hand, breaking his skin. Blood erupts in a bite pattern. Matt drops the hypo and falls back. The cage door flies open and something runs out. Matt pulls himself up to see the heat signature running down the hallway. He turns around to see another heat signature coming at him. Matt pulls off his goggles to see Linda coming up the You okay?
LINDA: You okay?
MATT: She bit me.
LINDA: Yeah. She s become a lot more aggressive in the last few days. Linda takes the goggles from Matt. Go take care of that bite. I ll get And give you a chance to pull ahead? Linda opens a lock-box at the end of the hallway and pulls out a two tranquilizer guns. She hands one to Matt.
MATT: And give you a chance to pull ahead? Linda opens a lock-box at the end of the hallway and pulls out a two tranquilizer guns. She hands one to Matt.
MATT: ( ala Porky ) Shh. Be vewy, vewy quiet. I m hunting simians. heheheheh.
LINDA: Knock it off. THERMAL POV - Dark hallway. Movement. A red shimmering heat signature. It comes running at Linda. HOWLING. Linda fires. A T-DART flies. Thwack. It stops in mid-air. Then falls. But it doesn t hit the floor. Instead, it stops inches above the ground. THERMAL POV - the heat signature lies in a heap at Linda s feet.
MATT: Good shootin , Tex.
LINDA: What s that make it?
MATT: I m still ahead. 6 to 5. Like a smug gunfighter, Linda blows imaginary smoke from the top of her tranquilizer gun.
LINDA: But I m catching up.
SARAH: Can I have a word?
SEBASTIAN: Most normal people say good morning.
SARAH: Don t you think you should test the protocol on the liver samples before you inject Isabelle?
SEBASTIAN: How many tissue samples have we successfully regressed? Hundreds, right? How many have gone on to work on the full system? None.
SARAH: That s beside the point.
SEBASTIAN: No, that is the point. I m not going to waste six months of my life on an outmoded testing procedure. This thing works. I know it. I feel it. Linda comes down the corridor, listening in on the tail end of the conversation.
SARAH: Fine. You can mop up afterward.
SEBASTIAN: You think I m going to kill Isabelle?
SARAH: Kill? More like liquefy.
SEBASTIAN: Sarah, thank you for your opinion, but I m the project leader. Understand? She says .
SARAH: Yes, Sir. . but somehow it feels like Fuck you. She storms off. Sebastian turns to Linda.
SEBASTIAN: How did you ever convince me to hire You said you wanted the beat vet in the country.
LINDA: You said you wanted the beat vet in the country.
SEBASTIAN: Yeah, well she cares more about the animals than the research.
LINDA: Maybe that s why she s so good.
SEBASTIAN: Who da Man? You da Man.
MATT: As we pull out we see we are.
MATT: Protocol is hot.
SEBASTIAN: Sarah, checks over the various readouts . heartbeat, blood pressure, the rest.
SARAH: CARTER ABBEY, the late thirties lab assistant, wheels in a cart of equipment. Linda taken a seat by the table and pushes aside the sheet.
BOOMING VOICE: THIS IS GOD. YOU ARE DISTURBING THE NATURAL ORDER OF THINGS AND WILL BE SEVERELY PUNISHED FOR ALL ETERNITY. GOD HAS SPOKEN. How many times do I have to tell you, Frank you aren t God. I am.
SEBASTIAN: How many times do I have to tell you, Frank you aren t God. I am.
SEBASTIAN: You guys ready to roll?
FRANK: We are live and in color. On your Frank and Janice looks down on their colleagues. Sebastian nods their way.
SEBASTIAN: Okay. Roll em.
JANICE: Okay. We are rolling record on videos one through twelve. Frank hits a series of buttons and speaks into a microphone. Recording.
LINDA: Testing De-Phase protocol. Injecting serial protein Caine One Two Five. Linda removes a glowing vial of orange liquid from a centrifuge nearby.
MATT: Maybe if you stopped naming them after yourself, you d have better luck.
SEBASTIAN: Why thank you, Dr. Kensington, for that keen scientific observation. I ll be sure to include it in my memoirs.
MATT: A whole mention? And I thought I was just gonna be a footnote. Matt unwraps a hypodermic needle and jabs the needle into the vial, drawing up the colored liquid.
MATT: Frank and Janice monitor Isabelle s vitals.
SEBASTIAN: ( to Linda ) She wraps a bungee cord around nothing and pulls it tight. She then takes some dye and sprays it. A surface appears, floating beneath the restraints. It sheens in the light as Linda searches for a vein. She slaps the surface several times. A small bulge appears, like a Let s make some history. Matt lowers the hypo to the vein. But Sebastian takes the hypo from Matt s hand.
LINDA: Let s make some history. Matt lowers the hypo to the vein. But Sebastian takes the hypo from Matt s hand.
MATT: Let s make some history. Matt lowers the hypo to the vein. But Sebastian takes the hypo from Matt s hand.
SEBASTIAN: Nice try, Sparky. Matt relinquishes the needle.
LINDA: Come on, Isabelle. You can do this. Sebastian lowers the hypo. The skin bonds and gives. The needle remains in sight after it slips through the visible surface. Matt presses down on the hypo plunger, releasing a dye into his bloodstream. The gold liquid twists into a long snaking tube up and down the limb. It s the shape of a vein. The liquid begins to react. Small flashes of light blip up and down the strand of color. Ba-bump.. ba-bump. the heartbeat starts to speed Elevated heartbeat.
SARAH: Elevated heartbeat.
JANICE: We re still in the green.
FRANK: Confirmed. Vitals still in the normal INT. LABORATORY The glowing liquid turns from gold to red as the complex webbing of a bloodstream appears.
MATT: It s reacting. Spreading out from the bloodstream, soon becomes visible.. the shadow of a skeletal system.
SEBASTIAN: Do you see this?
LINDA: It s working. It s actually working. Matt pulls the sheet back. Muscles are beginning to appear. And eyeballs. Frightened eyeballs.
SARAH: Heart rate s up. She s scared. Sarah soothes her. It's okay, baby. It's okay.
SEBASTIAN: Subject began manifesting almost Immediately. Protocol is reacting Isabelle starts to struggle against her restraints. She begins to howl.
LINDA: Subject may be in pain or extreme Goddamnit. Blood pressure elevating. Brain activity going through the roof. The brain appears, seemingly growing from the inside out. The shape of a large half-formed monkey grows from the inside out. A SKULL APPEARS howling in pain, in horror. We ve got a problem.
SARAH: Goddamnit. Blood pressure elevating. Brain activity going through the roof. The brain appears, seemingly growing from the inside out. The shape of a large half-formed monkey grows from the inside out. A SKULL APPEARS howling in pain, in horror. We ve got a problem.
SEBASTIAN: What? What problem! Sarah checks her monitors.
SARAH: It s her heart. We can see the heart beating in the ape s
SARAH: She s going into cardiac arrest.
LINDA: Got the crash cart. Carter charges the crash cart and rolls it in.
SARAH: We re losing her. Her machine flatlines.
SEBASTIAN: No! It s got to work. The body is only half there. It looks as if its caught in decomposition. Linda rubs the cardiac paddles together.
LINDA: Linda slams the paddles on the monkey s chest. The jolt of electricity makes the monkey visible again for a brief moment. Then the skin and flesh fade away again.
SARAH: We ve got something! The heartbeat starts up again. The body continues its march toward,visibility. Still. erratic.
LINDA: Come on Isabelle. Come on. You can do it. You can fucking do it. Everybody s pulling for her.
SARAH: Come on, monkey.
MATT: Do it. Do it. Come on. Muscles spread like a rash on bone as the monkey twists and turns, frightened. Then skin. The monkey howls. Skin forms over the muscles reappearing like it was being painted on before our eyes.
SARAH: The entire form glows, then blinks, then glows again, as if it was discharging some stored energy.
LINDA: Welcome back, Isabelle. Sebastian puts his hand on Linda s shoulder. a move that does not go unnoticed by Matt. We did it.
SEBASTIAN: ( beat ) How is she?
SARAH: ( surprised ) I think she s gonna be okay
CARTER: Amazing. She's normal, absolutely healthy. If you didn't know any better, you'd think nothing had happened to her.
MATT: ( ribbing Sarah ) Yeah. I can't wait to slice up her brain and trace her neural pathways.
SARAH: Screw you, Matt.
MATT: Well maybe not right away.
LINDA: We should celebrate.
SEBASTIAN: To the finest research team I've ever A round of "Hear, hears" and they all clink glasses and EXT. RESTAURANT BALCONY - LATER The din of the diners fades away as Linda slips out onto the restaurant's balcony. She find Sebastian leaning against a railing, breathing in the night air.
SEBASTIAN: I thought you'd gone.
LINDA: I thought you'd gone.
SEBASTIAN: Where would I go? He looks out over the sweep of the city, the twinkling lights of D.C. and darkness of the Potomac river. Twenty years ago there were no computers, no fax machines, no cell phones. I was just wondering what the world will be like twenty years from now. if what we're doing will change A little "I am become death. the shatterer of worlds"?
LINDA: A little "I am become death. the shatterer of worlds"?
SEBASTIAN: Something like that.
LINDA: Since the day I met, all you wanted to do was change the world. She puts her hand on his shoulder. Listen, I know we've. I mean. well . I just want you to know how proud I am of you. I know it probably doesn't mean a lot.
SEBASTIAN: Actually it does. I guess since you were there from the beginning, you know me better than anyone else on this godforsaken You're positively maudlin. You should be happy. Do you have any idea what you've accomplished?
LINDA: You're positively maudlin. You should be happy. Do you have any idea what you've accomplished?
SEBASTIAN: Yeah. but I was working so hard, I didn't realize I'd have no one to share it with. Sebastian heads back inside. But he stops and turns back. I don't suppose we could turn back the clock for a night and you could come home with me? Her look says it all. Too much water under the bridge. Right. Sorry. Too much champagne. He turns and heads back into the party. As he heads in he passes Matt heading out. He and Sebastian exchange What was that about?
MATT: What was that about?
LINDA: Nothing. It's just. He is who he is. Sometimes I just have to be reminded.
SEBASTIAN: ( a little drunk ) What's it like? Talk goddamnit! Tell me what it's like!
SEBASTIAN: To successful phase-shift a human being out of quantum sync with the visible universe and then return him safely, with no after affects. Next to Sebastian a video shows a small monkey shifting from the visible spectrum. It's hair, skin, organs and skeletons slowly dissolve before our eyes. Well, we found out sending them to "never-never-land" was easy, it's the getting back that's hard. Sebastian fast forwards a few moments until the video screen shows the bizarrely tangled heap of flesh and bone that used to be alive. Every time we've tried to bring a test subject back from phase-shift. Cellular bonds would dissolve, the primary DNA strands would decay. But Sebastian pauses. Something's bothering him. But now. One of the senior advisers, DR. HARRY KRAMER, distinguished 50s, finally breaks the silence.
KRAMER: But now? Linda and Matt look up at Sebastian expectantly.
GENERAL: How long?
SEBASTIAN: Son, as you can imagine, we are very anxious to field test this tactical asset. How long till you resolve this Linda starts to speak, but Sebastian cuts her off with a Shouldn't be more than another year, Frustrated sighs all around the room. Maybe sooner.
GENERAL: Son, as you can imagine, we are very anxious to field test this tactical asset. How long till you resolve this Linda starts to speak, but Sebastian cuts her off with a Shouldn't be more than another year, Frustrated sighs all around the room. Maybe sooner.
SEBASTIAN: Shouldn't be more than another year, Frustrated sighs all around the room. Maybe sooner.
MATT: Yo. Reality check! What the hell was that about?
SEBASTIAN: Keep your voice down.
MATT: The protocol works. Why'd you tell them it didn't?
SEBASTIAN: I wasn't ready for them to know.
MATT: But they're the oversight committee. They're supposed to know.
LINDA: I'm sure he had a reason. You did have a reason, didn't you, I had more than a reason. I had a goddamn epiphany. They reach his Porsche. What do you think they'd do if they know we could send a subject into phase shift and pull it back out again? How many seconds would it take for them to take over the whole project, bringing in their soldiers to test the formula on. We'd have lost control of it by the end of the week.
SEBASTIAN: I had more than a reason. I had a goddamn epiphany. They reach his Porsche. What do you think they'd do if they know we could send a subject into phase shift and pull it back out again? How many seconds would it take for them to take over the whole project, bringing in their soldiers to test the formula on. We'd have lost control of it by the end of the week.
LINDA: It's their money, Sebastian. It's going to happen eventually.
SEBASTIAN: I know. But not yet. There's too much for us to learn. I don't want my hands tied by their political agenda when we go to phase three.
MATT: Well, then. mind telling us how you're gonna get a human test-subject for phase three without the committee finding out?
SEBASTIAN: That's easy. I've decided to test the procedure .
SEBASTIAN: . on myself. The team sits around the conference table. Their jaws drop and they stare at him with wide eyes.
FRANK: Are you nuts?
SEBASTIAN: Was Jonas Salk nuts?
FRANK: Yeah. Pretty sure he was.
CARTER: And remember, for every Jonas Salk, there are a bunch of guys who aren't famous cuz they died.
SEBASTIAN: If we're that unsure, how can we morally justify testing it on someone Isn't it a little soon to be moving into phase three anyway?
JANICE: Isn't it a little soon to be moving into phase three anyway?
SARAH: She's right. We haven't even finished collating the phase two research.
SEBASTIAN: We'll have plenty of time to collate and cross-reference later. Monkey data doesn't matter anyway. The only real data is human data.
SARAH: You don't even know if any of the protocols will work on humans.
SEBASTIAN: How are we gonna find out? Besides, we've succeeded with a gorilla and their DNA is 98% the same as humans. And the 2% is not that significant.
LINDA: Sebastian . humans can talk, build houses and cook in microwave ovens. Gorilla's live in trees. That's a helluva 2% if you ask me.
SEBASTIAN: We're all concerned. I know that. But if we're gonna move forward ever, this is something we have to do.
LINDA: Why you? Why not one of us?
SEBASTIAN: The risks. I couldn't ask.
MATT: ( interrupting ) What if we volunteer?
LINDA: What if you're too valuable to lose?
SEBASTIAN: I'm Project Leader. It's my formula and my call. The best way to express your concern is to make damn sure you do your best work. I'll want about four weeks to.
FRANK: To put your affairs in order?
SEBASTIAN: To run some more reversions and tissue tests and then we'll attempt the phase shift. I'll stay shifted for three days of testing and then we'll perform a quantum regression.
SEBASTIAN: Come in. Linda pushes into the room and closes the door behind In the past six years, I've never once challenged your decisions, but this . Sebastian. I don't think you should do this.
LINDA: In the past six years, I've never once challenged your decisions, but this . Sebastian. I don't think you should do this.
SEBASTIAN: You don't understand.
LINDA: Oh please. How long were we together? You must've said it a million times . Nobody knows who built the lunar lander. All they remember in the first man on the moon. Sebastian shrugs and nods. But what if something happens to you. what about the project? Sebastian smiles.
SEBASTIAN: Lin, trust me. nothing's going to INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT Linda and Matt are in bed together. Matt kisses her way up and down her arm. But Linda is distracted.
LINDA: He refuses to listen to reason.
MATT: Can we talk about this later? I'm trying to make love to you.
LINDA: Sorry. I just can't let it go. Matt props himself up on the pillow.
MATT: I know how you're feeling. Hell, he and I've been friends since freshman So how can we let him do this?
LINDA: So how can we let him do this?
MATT: What if you were given the opportunity to be the first person on ,Mars, would you go?
LINDA: In a heartbeat.
MATT: What if they didn't know whether or not they could get you home? Linda thinks about it. It's still tempting. This is his chance to be Chuck Yeager or Christopher Columbus. Well, if I were him I'd do the same thing. Matt goes back to kissing Linda.
LINDA: Let me ask another question.
MATT: Is about who gets to be on top?
LINDA: Is the human race really ready for what we're doing? Matt groans and rolls over.
MATT: Why do you always get philosophical before we're about to get physical?
LINDA: No really. Is it ready? We're barrelling down a road that begs moral and ethical questions that I don't think we can answer.
MATT: They said the same thing about the bomb. They said we'd never survive the nuclear age. but here we are.
LINDA: This night is still young. I mean, when you think about it, it's creepy. Do we really want to live in a world where people can just disappear in the blink of an eye?
MATT: We made our deal with the devil years ago. Might as well stick around to cash in.
SEBASTIAN: ( his voice catches ) Matt sticks his head in.
MATT: We're ready. Sebastian nervously shakes his limbs out. Then nods.
SEBASTIAN: It's not too late to back out. I'm happy to take your place.
MATT: It's not too late to back out. I'm happy to take your place.
SEBASTIAN: No. I'm ready. Matt leads him into the hallway.
MATT: A little.
SEBASTIAN: A little.
MATT: Ever tell you the one about Superman and Wonder Woman?
SEBASTIAN: I don't think so.
MATT: So Superman's flying around the city, and he's horny as hell. Lo and behold he looks down and sees Wonder Woman, completely nude, sunning herself up on the roof of the Justice League. I mean she is lying there naked and spread eagle. So Superman starts thinking, "man. this is too easy. I could go down there, do a little fast pumping and be gone before she even sees me." After all he is faster than a speeding bullet, right? Anyway, he swoops down, takes care of business so quick, you can't even see him. Well . I tell ya. Wonder Woman looks up, surprised as hell and says "What the hell was that." And the Invisible Man replies "I dunno know, but it sure hurt like INT. LABORATORY Sebastian shoots Matt a look.
SEBASTIAN: You know, that could be the last joke I ever hear.
MATT: C'mon, man. That's funny shit. The buzz of conversation is punctuated by an amplified HEARTBEAT, thumping its familiar rhythm. Bah-bump. Bah-bump. In the center of the room, Sebastian, dressed only in a pair of jogging shorts is strapped to a table inclined at a 45 degree angle. Electrodes are strapped to his body. An I.V. tube snakes from the needle in his vein up to a bag of saline solution. Dripping slowly. Linda makes last minute checks of some of the equipment. She pats Sebastian on the shoulder.
LINDA: O.K. How're you feeling?
SEBASTIAN: Sarah checks his vitals.
SARAH: Pulse 88, BP 140 over 95. A bit To be expected.
SEBASTIAN: To be expected.
SARAH: No reason for concern. He's ready. Linda takes a moment and studies Sebastian's face. She's almost teary eyed.
SEBASTIAN: Hey. it's gonna be okay. Linda nods. Back to business.
LINDA: Start recording.
JANICE: We're hot. All systems nominal, Frank coordinates all the data being fed into the computers. He pushes a series of buttons and speaks into a microphone.
FRANK: Okay, kids. Let's make some history.
LINDA: Subject: Male, Age 29, weight 166 lbs. Matt jabs a hypodermic into small vial of colored liquid. Draws up 20ccs.
MATT: ( to Linda ) Linda takes the hypo from Matt. MATT ( cont'd ) If the tests are any indication it should work quickly.
SEBASTIAN: I'll inject myself. If anything goes wrong, they can't blame you. She hands the hypo Sebastian and steps away. Sebastian stares at the golden formula silently for a moment.
LINDA: We can still shut down, Sebastian. He shakes his head.
MATT: Any last words?
SEBASTIAN: Yeah. If I'm killed, pretend I said something deep and clever. Then. Back to business. He inserts the needle into the I.V. Sebastian. Presses into himself and depresses the Injection was administered at
LINDA: Injection was administered at
SEBASTIAN: Nothing so far.
SARAH: Vitals are stable. They wait and watch.
LINDA: Nothing's happening. Another moment passes by.
MATT: Human DNA structure is slightly more complex. it's possible that it may take more time. Another moment passes.
LINDA: Maybe we overlooked something.
SEBASTIAN: Recheck the protocol. It can't be non- Kinda like a firecracker with a bad Sebastian shoots Carter a questioning look. Don't know if it'll go off.
CARTER: Kinda like a firecracker with a bad Sebastian shoots Carter a questioning look. Don't know if it'll go off.
LINDA: FRANK ( V.0. ) No change in bio-electric.
SEBASTIAN: Another long pause. Sebastian concentrates. Excitement overtakes the room.
LINDA: Here we go. Slowly the flesh on Sebastian's arm begins dissolving, revealing the complex network of nerves, blood vessels and flesh beneath it.
SEBASTIAN: Shit. it's starting to burn. Oh god. It hurts. I didn't think it would The HEART BEAT thumps faster, accelerating
SARAH: Heartbeat's elevated. Pulse at 100.
LINDA: What do you feel? Keep talking. KEEP
TALKING!: Pulse is 165 . 170 Blood pressure 180 over 100. .
SEBASTIAN: Pulse is 165 . 170 Blood pressure 180 over 100. .
SARAH: Pulse is 165 . 170 Blood pressure 180 over 100. .
CARTER: He's going to blow out his heart.
LINDA: Prop the crash cart. Carter grabs the crash cart, rolls it in. Matt tears off the I.V. leads into Sebastian's arms.
MATT: We've got to stop it!
LINDA: We can't!
JANICE: Something's happening. Frank leans into the microphone.
FRANK: Listen up! Electric activity increasing in all limbs. Brainwaves are through the roof.
JANICE: I didn't think the human brain could spike that high.
FRANK: Maybe it can't.
SEBASTIAN: No. Oh god! NO! STOP IT! STOP IT! The muscular system begins to dissolve, leaving a struggling skeleton wrapped with tentacular blood vessels and stuffed with the major organs. The beating heart, the heaving lungs.
SARAH: Pulse is 180 .. holding stable. Screaming.. Then the organs go. Then the blood vessels. Leaving only a skeleton howling in pain. The jawbones spread wide . Screaming. screaming.
CARTER: Holy shit. Then as if someone had poured acid all over the bones, the skeleton evaporates into nothingness.
SARAH: Pulse is dropping. 170..
LINDA: Bio-quantum phase shift occurred at
MATT: Is he dead? Linda checks the readouts.
LINDA: No. He passed out from the trauma.
SARAH: Vitals returning to normal. Pulse 110 . dropping. Blood pressure 130 over
SARAH: Pulse steady at 70. A long beat.
MATT: A reverent pause as Linda runs her fingers over what would be his skin. Small electrical charge dance around her fingertips. She gasps.
LINDA: ( whispers in his ear ) You did it, Sebastian. You're the Let's get him into recovery.
CARTER: Let's get him into recovery.
MATT: S'okay. You nodded off.
LINDA: His breathing's hypnotic. How long's it been?
MATT: Seventeen hours.
LINDA: Where are the others?
MATT: In the lab crunching numbers. We've got enough data there for two lifetimes of research. Linda rubs her temples and gestures to the bed.
LINDA: I keep looking at that hole, wondering if he's really there. She notices something out of the corner of his eye. The sheet twitches. Did you see. The sheet twitches again.
MATT: He may be coming out of it. Linda and Matt watch intently. Then suddenly. the sheets thrash violently. A yell of pain.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: The lights! Turn off the goddamn lights! Ah Christ! Linda jumps up and crosses to Sebastian. Matt rushes to the wall and turns off the lights. Darkness. The room is lit by the glow of machinery. I can't. I can't close my eyes. I can't close my eyes.
LINDA: Your eyelids are transparent. The sheets slowly stop thrashing.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: So I . I'm.
LINDA: SEBASTIAN'S VOICE My arms. I can.. where? . I can feel Your arms . your whole body. It worked, Sebastian. It worked. The sheet rises and slips away. The wires, seemingly connected to thin air, spread out like a spider's web and then fall away one-by-one. The monitors all go dead.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: My arms. I can.. where? . I can feel Your arms . your whole body. It worked, Sebastian. It worked. The sheet rises and slips away. The wires, seemingly connected to thin air, spread out like a spider's web and then fall away one-by-one. The monitors all go dead.
LINDA: Your arms . your whole body. It worked, Sebastian. It worked. The sheet rises and slips away. The wires, seemingly connected to thin air, spread out like a spider's web and then fall away one-by-one. The monitors all go dead.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: Mirror. I . I want to see.
MATT: Over here in the corner. Matt motions to a dark corner of the room, toward a mirror and sink. We push in on the mirror. No reflection. Suddenly it fogs up . Sebastian's breath. A finger tracing appears in the fog . but of course we see no finger. The sink faucet twists on and water runs. It cups into the shape of hands and lifts into the air, splashing against the surface of Sebastian's face. Beads of water cling to his f ace, outlining it I shape f or a moment before dripping away. What was it like?
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: I . It's hard to think. Sebastian's voice is now behind him. Matt turns around. The transformation. I remember every molecule in my body shattering.
MATT: It was painful?
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: At first. but then everything went black. I couldn't see or hear or feel anything. It was all just black. like I wasn't connected.
LINDA: Your system received quite a shock.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: At least my senses are starting to return. You're wearing your Shalimar, aren't you? Linda realizes that he's standing very close by. Her hair lifts slightly and Sebastian inhales. Chills go down her Linda's hair drops back to her shoulders.
LINDA: Linda's hair drops back to her shoulders.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: This is weird. I'm looking through myself at the floor. I'm looking right through myself. I can't tell . He bumps into a chair. . where my body is. A moment of silence.
LINDA: No answer. Linda and Matt look at each other, slightly An indentation forms on the bed a moment later.
MATT: An indentation forms on the bed a moment later.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: You really can't see me. Can you?
LINDA: Gimme symptoms. Dizziness, nausea, headache, body-ache, disorientation.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: No, just tired. It's funny. I can see everything. more than before. but I can't see INT. LABORATORY - DAY Carter, Frank, Janice and Sarah work at various research stations. The door opens and Linda and Matt enter.
CARTER: Hey. How's he doing?
LINDA: Why don't you ask him? Linda motions to the gap between her and Matt. The four of them stare at the nothing.
SARAH: Sebastian, how do you feel.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: Not to bad, considering. They turn round. The voice is coming from behind them. The group rises from their various workstations and turn toward where the voice came from. Odd, isn't it? A rheostat switch on the wall turns and the lights dim. Though it's a simple act, it feels somewhat ominous.
LINDA: He can't close his eyes so they're sensitive to light. Linda's explanation puts everyone at ease.
JANICE: So, what was it like?
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: Over here. Sebastian has moved. As everyone turns toward him again, he can't stifle a slight giggle.
LINDA: C'mon Sebastian. Knock it off.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: Sorry. Couldn't resist. His voice again come s from somewhere else in the room.
FRANK: I feel like we're playing Marco Polo.
MATT: Well, I see the procedure hasn't changed your personality. Frank pulls on a pair of THERMAL GOGGLES.
FRANK: No worries. I'm on it. THERMAL POV - Every body in the laboratory shows up as a heat signature, including Sebastian. Frank points. Gotcha, big man. THERMAL POV - The HEAT SIGNATURE reaches for a chair.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: Boy, you people have no sense of A chair slides back from a desk and bends under Sebastian's weight. Show me. So .
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: Stop there. Frank halts the tape. Index that. That was when it started burn. Epidermal reaction.
JANICE: Index Mark. 112125. Janice scribble the numbers in her notebook. Linda crosses, nursing a cup of coffee.
LINDA: It's late. Time you got some rest.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: Just a little longer.
LINDA: Hate to pull rank, but you're my patient now and you need rest. We've got a busy day tomorrow. Heavy sigh.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: INT. THE RECOVERY ROOM - NIGHT As Linda enters she points to a small camera in the upper corner of the room.
LINDA: We've set up a thermal camera for observation and I've arranged one of us to be here 24/7 in case you need anything. The team's gonna be on alpha- call alert for the duration. If anything goes wrong, we can all be here within.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: Thirty minutes. Yes,,_I know. I wrote the procedure.
LINDA: I was trying to be reassuring.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: You like this don't you?
LINDA: What's that?
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: Being in charge. It's clear she does. But she's certainly not going to admit it.
LINDA: Please. I'm just doing my job.
LINDA: You gonna be okay?
SARAH: Fine. It's not like I have anything else going on in my sad pathetic life.
LINDA: Carter'll be in at six to spell you and I'll be in by nine. Call me if anything happens, okay? Through the glass wall, Linda sees Matt knocking and waving her out.
SARAH: I'm fine. Go on ahead.
CARTER: Man, I'm tired. That was a long day.
LINDA: Days only get longer from here. Linda catches Matt's eye. Gives him a look. "You coming over?" Matt nods, "yes", imperceptible to everyone but Linda. She smiles.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: ( whispering ) Sarah. Are you awake? Her heavy breathing mixes with Sebastian's. SEBASTIAN'S VOICE ( cont'd ) ( barely audible ) Sarah's hair moves slightly, as if a hand were running through it. And then we see her shirt move, like fingers were tracing over it. Down from the shoulder to her breast. Around her nipple. Sarah moans slightly, as if she were dreaming, but she doesn't stir. And then her breasts cup slightly, as if they were being touched. softly. gently. Her breathing becomes harder, more labored, erotic. and then she. BOLTS AWAKE. Bar eyes wide with fear. She jumps and cups her own breasts and looks around the room. It's empty, of course. She jumps over to the monitor and checks on Sebastian's room. The heat signature isn't there.
SARAH: Dr. Caine! Goddamnit, Dr. Caine! Are you in here? She listens. It's silent. She tries holding her breath, listening for his breathing. But there's nothing. Sarah reaches over to a microphone. Hits a few switches. Dr. Caine?
SARAH: She looks around the room. He must be in here. Nothing. No response. Sarah waves her hand around, reaching out, trying to find him. After a few beats she stops and rubs her head. Suddenly, Sarah gets an idea. She quickly exits the observation room.
SARAH: I found him later in the lab, running Why didn't you call me?
LINDA: Why didn't you call me?
SARAH: Because I wasn't sure. I'm still not. I mean, I could've easily been It doesn't sound like something Sebastian would do.
MATT: It doesn't sound like something Sebastian would do.
SARAH: God, I feel so stupid.
LINDA: I can talk to him.
SARAH: No. I mean. It was probably nothing. I shouldn't've mentioned it.
MATT: You sure?
SARAH: Yeah, I'm sure. I mean, y'know, why would he do that, right? Just, this place at night can be kinda creepy, INT. RESEARCH LAB - DAY Sebastian, wearing surgical scrubs sits in an examination chair. Wire leads sprout from the electrodes covering his head and arms. The electrodes seem to outline his body.
MATT: So, how was your first night?
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: Restless. Hard to sleep when you can't close your eyes. As Sebastian talks, we can see the electrodes around his jaw pump up and down.
MATT: Yeah? What'd you do?
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: Got up a couple of times. Knocked Yeah, Sarah mentioned you weren't in your cubicle. She said she called you over the intercom and you didn't I guess I didn't hear. I had the radio It'd be helpful to us if you'd tell whoever's on duty where you're going to. I mean, if something were to happen, we'd want to know where to find you.
MATT: Yeah, Sarah mentioned you weren't in your cubicle. She said she called you over the intercom and you didn't I guess I didn't hear. I had the radio It'd be helpful to us if you'd tell whoever's on duty where you're going to. I mean, if something were to happen, we'd want to know where to find you.
SEBASTIAN: I guess I didn't hear. I had the radio It'd be helpful to us if you'd tell whoever's on duty where you're going to. I mean, if something were to happen, we'd want to know where to find you.
MATT: It'd be helpful to us if you'd tell whoever's on duty where you're going to. I mean, if something were to happen, we'd want to know where to find you.
SEBASTIAN: I didn't think it was a problem.
MATT: It isn't. I just don't want it to become one. Machines pump out EEG, EKG readouts. Matt studies them. Readings are normal.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: Next I want to run a VV and UVF analysis of the platelets.
MATT: We'll have to draw some more blood.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: You okay?
SARAH: Yeah. Why?
SEBASTIAN: You just seem a little nervous.
SARAH: No. I.I'm fine. Hold still. This might hurt a bit. The surface of his skin sheens in the light as Linda searches for a vein. She slaps his arm several times, then plunges a hypodermic needle into his skin. His skin bends and gives. The needle remains in sight after it slips through the visible surface. Sarah presses down on the hypo plunger, releasing a dye into his bloodstream. Dr. Caine. this might sounds stupid, but are you. are you looking at me. The red dye twists into a long snaking red tube up and down his arm. His vein.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: No. I was looking at the clock. Why? Sarah draws the plunger back, sucking Sebastian's blood into the hypodermic and then yanks the needle out.
SARAH: Just felt like someone was staring at Sarah pulls the vial off the needle and labels it with a grease pencil. After a few beats the red dye in Sebastian's blood stream dissolves and disappears, as does the liquid in the vial.
TESTING MONTAGE: INT. MRI ROOM MATT slides Sebastian's sheet covered frame into an MRI. Even though his head is not visible, it shown up on the MRI scanner.
LINDA: Sebastian? Goddamnit. We hear Sebastian's laughter echo in the room.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: You've no idea how much fun I've had. I'm going to hate going back.
LINDA: That's what worries me.?
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: How so?
LINDA: What happens when we turn the project over to the Army. Ever wonder how much fun they're gonna have?
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: Maybe we won't give it to them. His voice comes from behind her now. We see indentations on her shoulders where his fingers press down. I was thinking. tonight's my last night. Ever fantasize about making love to an invisible man? Linda pulls away from him.
LINDA: Stop it, Sebastian. It's not funny.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: Well, don't do it for me. Do it for Linda walks away. Sebastian laughs.
LINDA: Grow up.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: Oh well. Missed your big chance.
LINDA: Got some sleep. Big day tomorrow.
LINDA: Frank peers down at her from the booth, his voice echoing through the chamber.
FRANK: Recording. Subject Doctor Sebastian Caine. Currently in phase shift. Three days, seven hours.
LINDA: De-Phase protocol. Injecting Serial Protein Caine One Two Seven. Matt removes the glowing vial of orange liquid from a centrifuge nearby. Carter hands Matt a hypo. Matt jabs it into the vial, drawing up the colored liquid. Linda sprays Sebastian's arm with dye. Not really. I was just starting to enjoy myself.
SEBASTIAN: Not really. I was just starting to enjoy myself.
LINDA: Okay, man. Here we go. Matt inserts the hypo into the vein and presses down on the plunger. The liquid begins to react. Small flashes of light blip up and down the strand of color outlining the Ba-bump.. ba-bump. the heartbeat starts to speed up.
MATT: Okay, man. Here we go. Matt inserts the hypo into the vein and presses down on the plunger. The liquid begins to react. Small flashes of light blip up and down the strand of color outlining the Ba-bump.. ba-bump. the heartbeat starts to speed up.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: Wait. something. something doesn't feel right.
SARAH: Heartbeat elevated.
FRANK: Vitals still nominal..
SEBASTIAN: I can't br. br. Sebastian begins wheezing.
LINDA: What's wrong?
SARAH: He's not breathing. Muscles are beginning to appear. And eyeballs. Frightened Subject manifesting.
MATT: Subject manifesting.
SARAH: Pulse erratic. Sebastian pulls against his bonds. One set tears off.
LINDA: Carter grabs onto the mass of flesh and muscle, trying to hold it back. But the restraints snap. The half-visible man is screaming. He grabs Carter and throws him across the room. And just for a second, Sebastian is fully visible. And free. He looks around like a scared animal and rips off all the wiring. Sarah preps a tranquilizer. Sebastian locks eyes with Linda. He's lost, he doesn't know where he is. And suddenly, he crumbles to the ground. Linda rushes over to him and puts bar hand on his shoulder. Light bleeds from his skin and his skin begins to dissolve from sight.
MATT: Get a tranq. Stat. Sarah preps a tranquilizer. Sebastian locks eyes with Linda. He's lost, he doesn't know where he is. And suddenly, he crumbles to the ground. Linda rushes over to him and puts bar hand on his shoulder. Light bleeds from his skin and his skin begins to dissolve from sight.
LINDA: He's reverting. Got him on the table. Matt, Linda and Sarah pull the shifting body up and onto an operating table. Carter pulls himself up and heads back to the group. Get me a I.V. of A.G. seven.
SARAH: I got no pulse. No pulse.
MATT: Start CPR. Carter locates Sebastian's heart, not a difficult thing because we can actually see it. Carter's hand pushes down in the air inches above the heart. We see the heart being pushed and squeezed. Sarah slaps an air bag on Sebastian and starts pumping air into his lungs. Sebastian's heart begins to beat again, beat on its own.
CARTER: Getting a pulse.
MATT: Holy shit. What happened?
LINDA: Sebastian. can you hear me? Can you hear me? How are his pupils?
MATT: I can't see his goddamn pupils!
SARAH: I think he's going into shock. We slowly FADE OUT to the sights and sounds of our scientist- doctors working on Sebastian. And the beeping of Sebastian's erratic heartbeat.
FADE: UP ON:
A HABITAT: The heartbeat continues. In the shadows, two Rhesus Monkeys defend themselves against an unseen attacker. Blood splatters against the Plexiglas wall. We FADE OUT AGAIN.
MATT: Just got the tissue sample results. Cellular cohesion is stable. Linda exhales in relief. Matt puts his hands on her shoulder. Pulls her close to him. How bout you? You gonna be okay?
LINDA: Guess so. I was just thinking about the Apollo missions. Y'know? Grissom, White and Chaffee. What it was like for them on that launch pad that day, thinking they were gonna reach the stars only to burn to death.
MATT: Sometimes the test pilots make history. Sometimes the planes crash and people die.
LINDA: But he didn't die, did he? What if we can't bring him back? What It's just a little hitch is all. He'll be the first to tell that he'll crack it and I'm sure he will. It'll just take time. Listen, let's got out of here. We could drive up to the old observatory. We'll take some wine and go count the stars and forget all this for awhile. She pulls away.
MATT: It's just a little hitch is all. He'll be the first to tell that he'll crack it and I'm sure he will. It'll just take time. Listen, let's got out of here. We could drive up to the old observatory. We'll take some wine and go count the stars and forget all this for awhile. She pulls away.
LINDA: No. I want to be here for him. Linda pushes through the door of the recovery chamber and takes a seat by Sebastian's bedside. A little hurt, Matt heads down the corridor.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: ( weak ) So I guess it didn't work. Linda shakes her head.
LINDA: So I guess it didn't work. Linda shakes her head.
SEBASTIAN: So I guess it didn't work. Linda shakes her head.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: You look worried. It must've been bad. Sebastian's voice is weak and strained.
LINDA: You almost died.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: Well, remember your Nietchze. Whatever doesn't kill me, makes me stronger. Linda smiles.
LINDA: I should be making you feel better. Not vice versa.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: I guess if I'm going to be stuck this way for awhile, I'd better make some INT. RECOVERY CHAMBER - DAY In a dusty shaft of light. A cotton swab. is dipped by a gloved hand into a jar of flesh-colored cream make-up. We follow the hand as it raises the cotton swab into the darkness. The swab strokes over the black and the rich fleshy cream spreads, revealing. EYE LIDS of a closed eye. The eyelids part, unveiling. PITCH BLACK. Blink. Blink. No eye. Not even a trace of a eye socket. Just darkness. A COLORED CONTACT LENS floats through mid-air. hovering before the eyelids. It turns and fastens itself to the darkness between the lids. We PULL BACK slowly as Sebastian lifts a latex FACE MASK and pulls it over his head. He checks his reflection in the mirror. He looks almost human. Almost. A face, eyes, hands . the rest of him covered by surgical scrubs. We pull back and see the rest of the team looking on.
MATT: Not too bad.
SEBASTIAN: The latex'll limit the amount of light delivered to my optic nerves.
LINDA: You could almost pass for human. Sebastian rises. He looks eerily removed from reality with his cold blank expression.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: Well, it gives you a face to talk to at least, and we can all work in normal light again.
SEBASTIAN: The testing's making me sick.
LINDA: Could be the barium or the radiation.
MATT: You're physiology has changed and, well, all bets are off.
SEBASTIAN: I can't believe I have to spend another night here. Suppose you're gonna go home now, meet up with that boyfriend of yours now. Linda and Matt exchange a glance. Linda quickly covers.
LINDA: Do you want me to stay?
SEBASTIAN: No. That's okay. It's just, being a guinea pig is more work than I thought. I'll be fine.
CARTER: ( surprised ) Dr. Caine. What's up?
SEBASTIAN: Just stopped by to let you know, I'm going out for a bit. Sebastian turns back into the hallway.
CARTER: Going out? Hey wait a sec! Carter scrambles to his feet.
CARTER: What do you mean going out for a bit?
SEBASTIAN: If I don't get out of here, I'm gonna go crazy.
CARTER: But you're not supposed to leave the Why not?
SEBASTIAN: Why not?
CARTER: That's the rule.
SEBASTIAN: Yes, but I made that rule. It's my rule and I'm changing it.
CARTER: You can't just change it. Sebastian hits the elevator button. The doors open.
SEBASTIAN: Carter, I was suppose to be like this for three days. Three fucking days and I'll be damned if I'm going to spend the rest of my life as a prisoner in this godforsaken dump. Now I'm going out. I'll be back in a couple of hours. Okay? The elevator doors close with Sebastian inside. Shit.
CARTER: Carter runs down the corridor.
CARTER: Yeah, it's Carter. We got a problem.
MARINE GUARD: Hey, Doc. Haven't seen you for awhile? Sebastian keeps his face turned away as he crosses to his Yeah, well. You know how it in You got that right, sir. I was beginning to worry 'cause your car hadn't moved.
SEBASTIAN: Yeah, well. You know how it in You got that right, sir. I was beginning to worry 'cause your car hadn't moved.
MARINE GUARD: You got that right, sir. I was beginning to worry 'cause your car hadn't moved.
SEBASTIAN: Thanks, but everything's cool. Sebastian starts his car. It chugs a few times before turning over and speeding out of the warehouse.
MATT: He could be anywhere. Hell he could be right behind us.
LINDA: I'll meet you at the lab. I'm gonna swing by his place, just in case.
MATT: See you there. Matt tries to give her a quick pack. Linda backs away.
LINDA: ( quietly, looking around ) I don't want him to see.
MATT: ( looking around too ) What a mess. They get in their cars.
SEBASTIAN: Frustrated, Sebastian steps away from the window and then stops. Something has occurred to him. He looks down and notices his hand is trembling. His breathing is a little heavy. A little nervous. He catches a glimpse at himself in the mirror. The Brunette's living room light switches off and the bathroom light switches on. We see him fighting an internal battle and we see him lose it. He grabs a hold of his hand and peels the latex skin off.
LINDA: INT. SEBASTIAN'S APARTMENT - NIGHT Linda pushes through the living room, into the bedroom.
LINDA: She notices that the bathroom light is on.
BATHROOM: On the floor she finds Sebastian's clothing and on the vanity she sees his latex face and hands.
LINDA: Oh shit. She scramble for the bedroom phone and quickly dials. Yeah, Matt, it's me. He was here. No. He's taken his make-up off. I don't know.He must be outside somewhere. I don't know where he went. I'm coming back to the lab. How? How'm I supposed to do that? I CAN'T FUCKING SEE HIM! We're going on alpha call. I want everyone at the lab now. We're gonna need thermal visors and we may need As she hangs up the phone, and heads out. The CAMERA doesn't follow, but instead pushes through the blinds and out the window. As we cross the courtyard, we begin to hear muffled cries of terror. We hold on the Brunette's window as we.
JANICE: What are the tranqs for?
LINDA: Use your imagination.
JANICE: Are you saying he's dangerous?
MATT: We're just saying we need to be The Metro stops running after midnight and he's on foot, so he can't have gotten too far.
LINDA: The Metro stops running after midnight and he's on foot, so he can't have gotten too far.
CARTER: Look, this isn't a monkey we're talking about. It's Dr. Caine. Don't you think you're over reacting?
LINDA: This program is classified. If he's out there it means someone might find out about him. He could destroy the whole program.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: Relax, Linda. No one's gonna find out. They all turn around. At the door is Sebastian, back in his latex outfit.
MATT: Where the hell have you been?
SEBASTIAN: I got a little stir crazy, so I went to my apartment to pick up some stuff.
LINDA: Bullshit! I went to your apartment and I happen to know you did a helluva lot more than pick some stuff up.
SEBASTIAN: What are you talking about?
LINDA: You, of all people How could you? Caught dead to rights, Sebastian sinks into his chair. He thinks she knows. You put yourself and this project at Just what did you see in my apartment?
SEBASTIAN: Just what did you see in my apartment?
LINDA: I saw your face and your clothes.
MATT: It was bad enough you left without an escort, but to take off the. out in public? Sebastian realizes that they don't know.
SEBASTIAN: Don't make a mountain out of molehill. I didn't let anyone see me.
LINDA: That's not good enough. When you're outside the lab there are a thousand variables none of us can control. It's just not safe for you to be out there.
SEBASTIAN: Come on, Linda. You don't expect me to be some kind of prisoner.
LINDA: You volunteered for this, Sebastian. You knew going in there could be For the security of this project, I'm gonna have to ask you to confine yourself to the compound.
SEBASTIAN: I'm still Project Leader, Linda. It's my decision to make.
LINDA: You're right. It's your decision. But if you leave the compound again, I'll notify the oversight committee. Then they can make the decision. You Sorry, man. You'd do the same if it were the other way around. A long beat. Sebastian slowly rises, acknowledges Linda with a nod and leaves the room. Linda looks around at her silent co-workers, the goggles and tranqs still on the Pack 'em up. Everyone go home.
SEBASTIAN: Sorry, man. You'd do the same if it were the other way around. A long beat. Sebastian slowly rises, acknowledges Linda with a nod and leaves the room. Linda looks around at her silent co-workers, the goggles and tranqs still on the Pack 'em up. Everyone go home.
MATT: Sorry, man. You'd do the same if it were the other way around. A long beat. Sebastian slowly rises, acknowledges Linda with a nod and leaves the room. Linda looks around at her silent co-workers, the goggles and tranqs still on the Pack 'em up. Everyone go home.
LINDA: Pack 'em up. Everyone go home.
LINDA: Hold still. She wraps a bungee cord around the nothing and pulls it tight. She then sprays the inside of his elbow with dye.
SEBASTIAN: ( contentious ) How much blood do you think you've taken so far? The surface of his skin sheens in the light as Linda searches for a vein. She slaps his arm several times, then plunges a hypodermic needle into his skin.
LINDA: Not enough to worry about.
SEBASTIAN: Every day. feels like you're sucking me dry. Linda presses down on the hypodermic plunger, releasing a dye into his bloodstream. It's funny. All these years I've known you, I never pegged you for a What are you talking about?
LINDA: What are you talking about?
SEBASTIAN: The shoe being on the other foot. You getting to run things.
LINDA: I didn't ask for this, Caine. But when a classified experiment disappears in the middle of the night, someone's gotta run the show. Look, I know how hard this has been for you. He knocks her arm away and pulls the hypo, out of his Don't patronize me. And for the record, you've got no idea what it's like. I get up every morning and you people stick needles in me. You bombard me with radiation until I vomit. And then at six it's over for you. You get to go home. But Sebastian is still here. Sebastian can't leave, or else. That's the worst part, you know. Here I have this . this GIFT and I can't even use it.
SEBASTIAN: Don't patronize me. And for the record, you've got no idea what it's like. I get up every morning and you people stick needles in me. You bombard me with radiation until I vomit. And then at six it's over for you. You get to go home. But Sebastian is still here. Sebastian can't leave, or else. That's the worst part, you know. Here I have this . this GIFT and I can't even use it.
LINDA: Now it's a gift?
SEBASTIAN: You're goddamn right it's a gift. And if you weren't so goddamned short sighted, I'd be out there right now trying to master it. Sebastian looks around at the other scientists staring at him. He tosses the hypo with the needle onto the instrument tray and heads toward the door.
LINDA: Where're you going?
SEBASTIAN: Looks like I'm going nowhere.
MATT: Come on, man. We've got a ton of tests scheduled today.
SEBASTIAN: Do them yourself.
LINDA: Want to talk about it?
SEBASTIAN: Linda looks over his shoulder.
LINDA: "We are the hollow men, the stuffed men, headpieces filled with straw."
SEBASTIAN: Funny, huh? I've become a literal He puts the books down.
LINDA: I don't want to fight you. I just want what's best for the program.
SEBASTIAN: I know. And you being right doesn't make it any easier for me.
LINDA: You can be scared. That's okay.
SEBASTIAN: I'm not scared of being stuck this way. With a little more make-up and practice, I could. . pass. Y'know, get by in the world. But the testing.
LINDA: You're talking like you've given up. It's only been a few months.
SEBASTIAN: What if it's years? I don't know how much more testing I can take.
MATT: 60% reversion. 70% . 75% . 80% .
SEBASTIAN: We've got it. We've got it.
MATT: 93% . 95%. 95% They wait. Linda points to a blank patch on the screen.
LINDA: That's all we need.
SEBASTIAN: Come on, baby. Come on. But the blood cells nearest the blank patch twinkle out existence, and then those around them also blink away until after a beat, the screen is empty.
MATT: Full quantum cascade at 95%. I'm sorry.
SEBASTIAN: You're sorry? You're fucking sorry? Sebastian picks up a glass beaker and hurls it against the wall. It shatters. Six weeks of this shit and you're He grabs more equipment and begins tossing it in a rage. Carter and Janice grab him and restrain him. After struggling against them a beat or two, Sebastian calms down and pushes away from them and heads out the door.
JANICE: I don't blame him.
LINDA: I'll go talk to him.
MATT: Leave him alone. He just needs to blow off some steam.
SEBASTIAN: I'm going to the lab.
SEBASTIAN: Waste of time. Da Vinci never slept.
FRANK: Okay. I'm here if you need me. He watches as Sebastian's heat signature moves toward the INT. LABORATORY - NIGHT In the dark deserted lab, Sebastian pulls together a circuit board, a computer chip and some wiring. He seems be assembling something.
MATT: How'd it go?
FRANK: Quiet. He worked in the lab till about 10:30 and then went to sleep.
SEBASTIAN: Ah, my two favorite people. Good Good morning.
LINDA: Good morning.
MATT: Why so cheery this morning?
SEBASTIAN: You know some days you just wake up feeling the world is full of potential. Like your eyes have been I'm happy if I make it to my coffee Linda hands Sebastian a disk.
MATT: I'm happy if I make it to my coffee Linda hands Sebastian a disk.
LINDA: I restructured the third genome on your radiated protein strand. Thought you might want to take look.
SEBASTIAN: Cook up a batch and let's see where we I thought you'd want to take a look at I trust you. Now if you'll excuse me, I need to have my head examined.
LINDA: I thought you'd want to take a look at I trust you. Now if you'll excuse me, I need to have my head examined.
SEBASTIAN: I trust you. Now if you'll excuse me, I need to have my head examined.
LINDA: I'm telling you, I know him. Something's going on.
MATT: Think he knows about us.
LINDA: If he knew about us, he'd be angry and that wasn't angry.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: When you were a kid, you ever dream about being invisible?
CARTER: Sure. all the time.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: What did you imagine you'd do?
CARTER: The usual.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: What's the usual?
CARTER: Hanging out in the girl's locker room. Kicking Jimmy Margiani's ass.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: Jimmy Margiani?
CARTER: School asshole. Drove a red Trans Am. Back then, I was the size of a small planet and made a rather large target.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: Ever think up anything along the grand Sure. World domination. Manipulating stock markets, consolidating a political power base. But those are more recent fantasies. Carter pulls off the electrodes and Sebastian slides on his latex facemask.
CARTER: Sure. World domination. Manipulating stock markets, consolidating a political power base. But those are more recent fantasies. Carter pulls off the electrodes and Sebastian slides on his latex facemask.
SEBASTIAN: And what if it weren't fantasy? What if you were out there in the world and could do whatever you wanted with no consequences whatsoever. How far would go? I mean. if it were real?
CARTER: I don't know, man. Out in the real world. I mean, there's a Let's say you saw a woman with amazing tits. Would you brush against them?
SEBASTIAN: Let's say you saw a woman with amazing tits. Would you brush against them?
CARTER: Hell, I try and do that now.
SEBASTIAN: Human nature. So if you could get away with more, would you do more?
CARTER: I read that in a survey at a major university they asked college students "Would you steal if you were guaranteed to get away with it?" 82% said yes.
SEBASTIAN: Eighty two percent? Makes you wonder if the world's ready for what we're So, Doc what did you do?
CARTER: So, Doc what did you do?
SEBASTIAN: What do you mean?
CARTER: When you were out.
SEBASTIAN: I just walked around. Y'know.
CARTER: Aw, you just walked around? Come on. There's more, right?
SEBASTIAN: Like what?
CARTER: Man, I'd be walking up to people saying shit like "This is God, go,get a haircut." Or hanging out in the changing room at Victoria's Secret.
SEBASTIAN: Kind of sophomoric, don't you think. Besides, it was late and I wasn't out that long.
CARTER: Well, did you see anybody?
SEBASTIAN: There was this one girl.
CARTER: Yeah? And did you mess with her?
SEBASTIAN: Sebastian gives Carter a sly grin.
SEBASTIAN'S POV: Then .
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: SEBASTIAN'S VOICE ( cont'd ) Sorry, didn't mean to frighten you.
LINDA: It's fine. I just didn't know you were there. Goodnight. As she leaves the Lab, he follows her down the hallway.
LINDA: What was it?
MATT: I don't know. I don't see anything. Matt picks up a piece of glass and examines it. It's like something hit it. Linda picks up the phone and dials.
CARTER: Carter looks at the security monitor of the recovery room. Sebastian's heat signature lies still on the bed.
LINDA: Thanks. No, just checking. 'Kay, bye. Matt pulls her into him.
MATT: Relax. it's nothing. Where were we?
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: Be quiet! A photograph of Linda drifts through the air and settles atop a flaming candle. It ignites into fire, twisting and turning in mid-air, then falling on the floor as ash. A beat later water runs from the sink faucet. It forms in the shape of hands and splashes against his face, dripping away. And the cyclops screamed out, "Who is it who blinds me?" and Odysseus replied "Nobody is my name". And the Cyclops raged to his friends "Nobody is killing me. Nobody". The barking continues. A moment later the chamber door slides open. We push down the.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: Shhhh. It's Nobody-It's nothing. The Plexiglas door to the doggie's cage swings open and some invisible force grabs little doggie around the neck. The force squeezes its little fur ball throat until the barking stops. Nobody's gonna hurt you. The force keeps squeezing until the little doggie goes limp. Then the dog smashes against the Plexiglas over and over until blood spills out its mouth. The Plexiglas door swings closed again and moments later the door to Sebastian's cubicle closes as well. The water runs in Sebastian's sink washing the blood away from his now half visible hands.
SARAH: You awake?
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: I am now. The sheets raise and drape off of him.
SARAH: Notice anything unusual last night.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: No. Why?
SARAH: Franklin Three. He's dead. Sebastian pulls a sheet around him. He moves across the dimly lit room like a ghost.
SEBASTIAN: What of?
SARAH: His neck was broken and his windpipe How'd that happen?
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: How'd that happen?
SARAH: I thought maybe you could tell me.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: Sarah. You saying I had something to do with it?
SARAH: He was alive last night when I left and he was dead this morning. And you were the only one down here.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: I was in my room all night.
CARTER: That's all twelve hours.
LINDA: He never left the room.
SARAH: A windpipe doesn't just suddenly collapse. Someone or something killed You saw the tape. The man was in his Then we have a problem, because I the cage was locked from the outside. That means it was opened, the dog was killed and the cage was closed and locked again. Only a human could do Well, it wasn't me.
MATT: You saw the tape. The man was in his Then we have a problem, because I the cage was locked from the outside. That means it was opened, the dog was killed and the cage was closed and locked again. Only a human could do Well, it wasn't me.
SARAH: Then we have a problem, because I the cage was locked from the outside. That means it was opened, the dog was killed and the cage was closed and locked again. Only a human could do Well, it wasn't me.
CARTER: Well, it wasn't me.
MATT: And it wasn't him.
LINDA: Are we sure?
SEBASTIAN: Any big plans for tonight?
LINDA: Quiet night at home. Maybe a book.
SEBASTIAN: Really? Whatever happened to that guy your were seeing?
LINDA: He's still in the picture. Why?
SEBASTIAN: Being locked down here, I'm forced to live vicariously. Someday you'll have to tell me what he's like.
LINDA: Maybe someday I will. See you in the Au domain. Sebastian watches Linda walk away. He glances at the camera and starts to peel off his face.
SEBASTIAN: Au domain. Sebastian watches Linda walk away. He glances at the camera and starts to peel off his face.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: We see the footsteps start to head back toward the INT. WAREHOUSE - NIGHT Linda and Matt exit their car and cross toward the
LINDA: ( to Marine Guard ) Forgot something.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: What the hell? He breaks into a run. Feet splash water and he races back toward the warehouse.
FRANK: Pretty clever really. All it does is recycle the signal. He flips this switch, it takes a snapshot and that's all we see.
LINDA: And you think he's violent?
JANICE: And you think he's violent?
SARAH: He killed a dog with his bare hands.
FRANK: Dogs aren't people. Are we in any Linda doesn't know.
LINDA: Either way, we aren't equipped to handle this. We have to inform the Everybody murmurs in agreement.
JANICE: What if he doesn't come back?
LINDA: They'll go after him. Who has tonight's shift?
JANICE: I do.
LINDA: Pretend nothing's wrong. Everyone just do what you're doing so he doesn't become suspicious. Okay? Matt and I'll go tell Doctor Kramer and we'll lot the committee deal with it. Sebastian's POV - He backs away and races down the hall.
SEBASTIAN'S POV: We hear breathing and footsteps as we push through some bushes and head toward a bay window which looks into the Kramer living room. Through the glass we see LINDA and MATT seated across from DR. KRAMER. We can't hear what they're saying but it certainly looks serious. Kramer puffs on a pipe and strokes his beard, shaking his head. Kramer rises and shakes hands with Linda and Matt, and the three of them head toward the front door. We move away from the window and track toward the front door. As the door opens we begin to hear the tail end of the conversation.
KRAMER: I'll call General Caster right now and convene the oversight committee Thank you, sir.
LINDA: Thank you, sir.
MATT: What do we do in the meantime?
KRAMER: Just sit tight and wait for my call. Matt and Linda head down to her car. Kramer heads back INT. KRAMER'S HOUSE - NIGHT Kramer heads back into the living room. His wife appears a the upstairs railing.
MRS. KRAMER: What was that about?
KRAMER: Just a little trouble at work.
MRS. KRAMER: You coming up?
KRAMER: In a minute. I have to make a few Mrs. Kramer retreats back to her bedroom as Dr. Kramer crosses over to the telephone. He picks up the receiver and starts dialing. In the middle of dialing, the phone goes dead. He clicks the hookswitch up and down trying to get a dial tone. Nothing. He checks the connections on the phone and then follows the wiring to the wall. The line's plugged in. Weird. He hears a door creak open in the kitchen. Hello? Hello? Kramer crosses to the darkened kitchen. The kitchen door leading to the backyard is open. Puzzled, he crosses to it. A wind stirs across the pool and backyard, swirling dead leaves in small twists of wind. The windchime rings lightly. Kramer steps out.
KRAMER: Help! HELP! MARTHA! HELP! As Kramer runs, he looks behind him. But no one's there. WHAM! Something slams into Kramer and he tumbles, rolling into the pool. But as he hits water there's not just one splash, but TWO. In the water next to him is human shaped AIR-POCKET. It's Sebastian displacing the water. And because of the water displacement, we can clearly see two arms pushing Kramer beneath the water's surface. MARTHA KRAMER opens the bedroom window and looks down at the pool. All she can see is her husband drowning. his flailing limbs kicking up a massive air bubble around him. She races from the window. Kramer kicks and flails for a few moments and then his limbs stop moving. A moment later he floats to surface, face down. The AIR POCKET bobs over to the pool ladder, and rising from the pool, we see Sebastian's body outlined in sheets of water. The shape melts away in a cascading waterfall until all we can see of Sebastian are the hundreds of tiny droplets still clinging to his body, caught in the light like twinkling bulbs on a Christmas tree. The shape disappears into the darkness. A moment later Martha emerges from the house and sees her husband floating face down in the pool. She screams.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: What? No good morning for me? Don't you like me anymore?
LINDA: Oh, sorry. I.I'm in a hurry.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: That's okay. It's going to be busy INT. LINDA'S OFFICE - DAY Matt sits across from her, twirling a pen in his hand. They both stare at the phone.
LINDA: When did he say held call?
MATT: He's probably meeting with the committee trying to figure out what to I'm gonna call him. Linda picks up the phone and dials. Yes, Dr. Kramer please. Excuse me? When? I'm so sorry. Linda blanches as she hangs up the phone.
LINDA: I'm gonna call him. Linda picks up the phone and dials. Yes, Dr. Kramer please. Excuse me? When? I'm so sorry. Linda blanches as she hangs up the phone.
MATT: He's dead. Drowned in his pool last Linda picks up the phone again and dials. Yes, General Thompson please. Thank As she waits the phone line clicks dead. Hello? Hello? She clicks on the hookswitch.
LINDA: He's dead. Drowned in his pool last Linda picks up the phone again and dials. Yes, General Thompson please. Thank As she waits the phone line clicks dead. Hello? Hello? She clicks on the hookswitch.
MATT: Let me see that. He tries it too. Same result. Intercom's working, but there doesn't seem to be an outside line.
LINDA: I'll be right back with help. Linda taps in his floor code.
LINDA: Foster One Delta Eight Three Five.
LINDA: That's a first. Linda taps the keypad again.
LINDA: Foster One Delta Eight Three Five.
MATT: Let me try mine. Matt hits buttons on the keypad.
MATT: Kensington Two Romeo One Five Nine.
LINDA: Tell me this isn't happening.
LINDA: We've got a problem.
MATT: How long before anybody starts looking for us?
LINDA: There's no set check in procedure. It could be weeks. A graphic of the elevator system pops up on the screen. Frank highlights the security terminal. Frank hits a few more keys. The screen reduces to a series of numbers. You think you can got in? Frank rewrites a few of the numbers.
FRANK: Already in. It was only a second level The Security System specifications pops up.
JANICE: Some security system.
FRANK: Oh the system is fine. It's just I'm just extraordinary. Frank types a few more keys, and his eyes widen. But apparently someone is more extraordinary than me.
MATT: What is it?
FRANK: There's nothing wrong with the system. Our codes have been removed.
MATT: Removed? By who?
FRANK: Here's a clue. Only one code remains.
LINDA: Dr. Sebastian Caine.
FRANK: Dr. Sebastian Caine.
CARTER: He's not in there. Linda enters the chamber. She notes that Sebastian's face and makeup are on the sink vanity. Linda crosses to the phone and hits the "PAGE BUTTON"
LINDA: Okay, Sebastian. Fun's over. Tell us where you are. She waits. Then.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: I'm sorry. But I can't lot you turn me Sebastian. where are you?
LINDA: Sebastian. where are you?
LINDA: C'mon Sebastian. You're scaring me. Tell me where you are and we can talk about it.
LINDA: Sebastian! Sebastian! I want search parties. Thermal goggles and tranquilizers.
JANICE: Dr. Caine? Are you in here? Dr. Caine? Suddenly, Janice jerks back.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: I'm here.
FRANK: Doctor Caine?
LINDA: No response. They push through the door. The room seems deserted. Signs of a struggle. File cabinets opened, drawers tossed.
MATT: This is bad. THERMAL POV - Linda surveys the room, spotting a slight heat signature peeking from the corner.
LINDA: There's something over there. Linda moves toward it. Whatever it is its hidden from Matt's POV by the supply cabinet. As Linda gets close she pulls of f her thermal goggles to see.
MATT: What happened? Linda lowers the body to the floor.
LINDA: She was strangled. Multiple blows to her head. Linda begins a medical check of the rest of the body. Matt stoops down and examines Janice's face. We got a big problem here. A lamp tumbles from the desk and smashes to the floor. Both Linda and Matt jump. Linda frantically dons the thermal visor and scopes the room again. Nothing. Matt notices the lamp cord beneath Linda's leg. Points it out to her. She sighs with relief. she pulled the lamp off the table. Get everybody to the conference room. Matt picks up the phone. Clicks the hookswitch. Clicks the hookswitch again.
MATT: Intercom. the phone lines. They're Gimme that. She checks the phone, punches some numbers. Nothing. It was just working.
LINDA: Gimme that. She checks the phone, punches some numbers. Nothing. It was just working.
MATT: What the fuck is going on here?
MATT: Linda takes a few cautious steps. Senses something. Matt, suddenly concerned, hands her the visor. THERMAL POV - Linda checks out the corridor. Empty. Linda takes Matt's hand. They move quickly up the corridor. See Frank, Sarah and
LINDA: Linda takes a few cautious steps. Senses something. Matt, suddenly concerned, hands her the visor. THERMAL POV - Linda checks out the corridor. Empty. Linda takes Matt's hand. They move quickly up the corridor. See Frank, Sarah and
FRANK: Did you find him?
LINDA: Janice is dead.
LINDA: It's clear. Matt, Frank, Janice and Sarah step in, locking the door behind them.
SARAH: The man has checked out of reality.
FRANK: What happened? I don't understand.
CARTER: Isn't it obvious? Right now, we're the only ones who knows he exists. If he gets rid of us, no one knows and he becomes the most powerful man on But he's not a killer. They all look at Linda.
FRANK: But he's not a killer. They all look at Linda.
LINDA: He wasn't. He is now.
MATT: Can you fix the elevator? Restore our It'd take hours to crack the Right now that sounds like good news.
FRANK: It'd take hours to crack the Right now that sounds like good news.
MATT: Right now that sounds like good news.
CARTER: So what do we do until then. Sit around waiting for him to kill us off? Everyone looks around for some leadership. Finally.
LINDA: No. We find him, before he finds us.
CARTER: You sure this'll work. Linda sits down at a computer terminal, activates it.
LINDA: We designed it to help find the rats we kept dropping in year one. They were too small for thermal scans. A map of the compound appears on the screen.
MATT: Systems hot. Activating motion Matt toggles a switch. Linda stares at a map of the compound. Blips appear on the display. in the observation room. in the Habitat Area and in one of the I've got movement in Corridor Six.
LINDA: I've got movement in Corridor Six.
MATT: That's him.
MATT: Got 'em. Matt pulls out a pair of walkie-talkies. He tosses one to Check. Check. Her voice echoes from the other unit. Be careful.
LINDA: ( into walkie ) Check. Check. Her voice echoes from the other unit. LINDA ( cont'd ) Be careful.
MATT: Just watch our backs. Hey Carter, Let's do it. Matt and Carter exit. Linda locks the door behind them.
CARTER: Let's do it. Matt and Carter exit. Linda locks the door behind them.
LINDA: ( into Walkie ) Take a right at the next accessway. He's working his way back to the We see Matt and Carter on one of the working video screens as they push down the tunnel.
MATT: ( Walkie - sotto ) If we split up, can we trap him on corridor eight?
MATT: Going Thermal. Matt pulls the visor down over his eyes.
LINDA: I lost him. Matt, I lost him.
MATT: He probably just stopped moving. But Matt becomes more cautious with his footsteps. Slowly . approaching a corner. He rounds the corner and sees a heat signature at the far end of the corridor. He levels his pistol, ready to fire.
CARTER: It's me. Matt pulls off his goggles.
MATT: Do you have anything?
CARTER: How did he get by us?
MATT: How did he get by us?
CARTER: He couldn't.
MATT: Sebastian! We're here to help. No response. They both don their visors and move forward slightly. Carter holds up his hand.
CARTER: There. Behind those pipes. He's not Carter points. Matt checks his thermal. A red heat signature clings to the wall. Doctor Caine? Can you hear me? No response.
MATT: ( into walkie ) We see him. But he's not responding. The heat signature doesn't move. Matt looks through his visor and holds the tranquilizer gun at the ready. He looks for a clear shot. The heat signature huddles behind pipes.
MATT: C'mon. C'mon. The two slowly move closer. Matt finally has a clear shot. He signals Carter. Carter levels his pistol too.
CARTER: Matt fires the dart at the heat signature. It bounces off the wall . Nothing there.
MATT: What the. He crosses to the heat signature. Just a vent. Just a goddamn vent
MATT: Looks like. looks like we're pumping out heat. Suddenly behind him. CARTER JERKS THREE FEET in the air, kicking wildly. SUSPENDED IN MID-AIR BY HIS NECK. He gasps for air.
MATT: No fucking shit! Matt opens fire with the tranquilize, shooting at the ceiling until he spends his dart rounds. Sebastian? Goddamnit! Let him go.
CARTER: ( choking ) H.Help. MMmmphg Carter suffocates. He passes out. With a sudden crack, he's thrown against the side wall. A large cut opens up across his head and his body goes limp.
MATT: ( into walkie ) Where is he? Where the fuck is he?!?
LINDA: Right on top of you.
MATT: Carter's down. Hurt bad. Bleeding from a head wound.
LINDA: Matt, he's coming toward you.
MATT: Got outta there. Matt breaks into a run.
LINDA: Got outta there. Matt breaks into a run.
LINDA: He's close!
MATT: Goddamnit. The doors are closing. He's shutting me in. Matt rushes the doors as they slide shut. He doesn't make it in time. The doors close with a resounding clang. Matt turns and pulls on his thermals. Where is he?
LINDA: He's coming right at you! Then checks the Thermal goggles. Several heat signature dot the tunnel.
MATT: Twenty, maybe thirty feet.
LINDA: Twenty, maybe thirty feet.
MATT: Goddamnit, I got thermals all over the place. Eight, maybe ten of them. Must be ghosts.
LINDA: Those signatures . they're coming from the heating vents. Through the goggles, Matt sees the tunnel turning red.
MATT: I'm starting to lose resolution on my Get out of there!
LINDA: Get out of there!
FRANK: If the room temperature is the same as his body temperature, thermal visors'll be no good. Linda grabs a Tranq gun and heads for the door.
LINDA: I'm going!
FRANK: Linda.it's not safe.
LINDA: That's why I'm going. Corridor eight is clear. Get Carter to the lab. We'll meet you there.
FRANK: Do it.
LINDA: Do it.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: Marco.Polo. Marco. Polo. His voice keeps shifting. Matt fires. Not even close. Matt sweeps his front leg back and forth, like a blind man using a cane. But his foot isn't hitting anything. He sees a FIRE EXTINGUISHER mounted on the wall. He rushes it, turns it on the hallway and sprays. And SOMETHING LUNGES through the foam. GRABS HIM, sending him tumbling down the tunnel. Matt is thrown against the wall. Blood coming from his brow. He scrambles away, spraying more foam. Sees a shape in the mist, raises his pistol and FIRES. The shape leaps away. The DART FLIES. Doesn't hit. Matt scrambles back into a corner. His pistol is empty.
SEBASTIAN: So. just out of curiosity, how long has my best friend been fucking my ex- Sebastian. Get a hold of yourself. You aren't thinking rationally.
MATT: Sebastian. Get a hold of yourself. You aren't thinking rationally.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: She's a pretty sweet fuck, isn't she?
MATT: Calm down, Sebastian. we can talk this through. It's not too late. The Shape parts the low hanging mist, the fine powder swirling in clouds behind it. Coming toward him.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: I'm sorry, but I just feel that our friendship is holding me back. I'm sure you understand. THE DOOR OPENS. Linda reaches through, grabs Matt. She pulls him to his feet and through the door.
SARAH: This way. They shear off the main corridor into the side corridor. Carter lies crumpled up ahead. Sarah slides to his side. Carter's head rests in a pool of blood. She checks his pulse while Frank takes a protective position. Pulse is weak. Breathing. shallow.
FRANK: He'll be okay.
SARAH: It's pretty severe. We have to get him to the lab.
FRANK: He's got to be okay. Frank stands frozen.
SARAH: For godsakes, help me. Frank snaps to. Grabs an arm. The pair hoist Carter up and carry him down the hallway.
MATT: He was going to kill me. Linda pulls him close.
LINDA: I know. He's gone.
MATT: We've got to got out of here. Linda checks the screen see Sarah, Frank and Carter headed toward the Laboratory. Where is he? Goddamnit, where is he? Isolated in the Hallway of Habitats is a single blip.
LINDA: Oh god. That's right between us and the lab.
MATT: Oh god. That's right between us and the lab.
SARAH: His pulse is faint. Sarah grabs a sheet from the counter top. Folds it and presses it against the head wound. He's lost a lot of blood. Here. Hold She guides Frank's hands to the wound. Keep applying pressure. Sarah pulls out a saline solution I.V. bag and slap it on the rack. She fumbles with the needle as she tries to find a vein. Don't move your hand until I got back. Sarah heads to the door.
FRANK: Where are you going?
SARAH: This'll hold him but he needs blood.
FRANK: Supply is right down the hall. I'll be two seconds.
SARAH: Supply is right down the hall. I'll be two seconds.
FRANK: Sarah, wait for the others
SARAH: If I wait, he'll die. Keep pressure on the wound.
MATT: Ahh! Shit! Linda tries to get a clear shot off through the smoke. Matt trips and goes sprawling. Something yelps. A howl. Linda shoots. Her dart jabs into something which collapses to the ground. A moment of calm. As the dusty chemical foam settles, the outline of a great ape appears, still twitching. Karl Three. Nice shot.
LINDA: He's let the animals out. It wasn't him we were tracking. Linda leans against the wall, still clutching her tranq gun at the ready. The heat is getting to bar. Bar scrubs are soaked, her hair's a mess. She wipes the sweat from her brow. You okay?
MATT: It won't kill me unless it gets infected. You?
LINDA: Me .. Don't ask about me. If he freed all the animals, we could have dozens running around the lab.
MATT: So he could be anywhere right now. Matt sprays the whole tunnel, putting down a gentle cloud mist. Nothing else appears. What do we do?
LINDA: Get to the lab, lock the goddamn doors and pray to God Frank can reprogram the elevator.
SARAH: She eyes the supply room, looking for a sign of movement. She listens. Is that breathing she hears? Now she's starting to panic. She starts to back away, but she's already in the corner. She clutches her tranquilizer gun, but there's nothing to aim at. The vials of blood on the shelf gives her an idea. She reaches over, grabs a vial and throws it on the floor. GLASS SHATTERS and BLOOD SMEARS across the linoleum. Sarah tosses another vial and another. Becoming more and more hysterical. Splattering more and more blood. But she runs out of vials. Shaking with fear, she searches the blood looking for a footprint, or movement. But there's nothing there. Sarah waits a beat, clutching the tranquilizer gun. Takes a step. Waits a beat longer. Finally she relaxes. It was just her imagination. She heads toward the door when she hears a terrifying whisper in her ear.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: You missed. Her hair flies up, and she swings against the wall. She tries to move, but she's pinned there. Her hands struggling against the force.
SARAH: Please no. Let me go. Oh god, let me The arm holding the tranquilizer gun begins to move. What are you doing? No! Sarah fights, but her arm moves nonetheless Help me! Oh God. Somebody help me!
FRANK!: Slowly, deliberately, her own arm moves down the wall and around, until the tranquilizer gun points right at her Sarah watches in horror as her own body betrays her. She struggles, shaking back and forth. Writhing. In anguish and in fear.
SEBASTIAN: The trigger pulls .. Pop! A dart explodes from the gun and imbeds in Sarah's stomach. She whimpers as her eyes glass over. Suddenly she's released. She stumbles backward and falls lifeless to the floor. A moment of stillness, all we can hear is the sound of someone breathing. On Sarah's face. a slight-indentation runs down her Almost sweet. almost tender. And slight indentation runs across her breast and strokes down her body. The sense of violation and vulnerability is awful. Sebastian Sarah's head shifts slightly. Her head shifts violently, accompanied by the celery crunch of her neck snapping. Sebastian exhales, his breath filled with the intoxication of power.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: I've always liked your feistiness. Sarah's head shifts slightly. Her head shifts violently, accompanied by the celery crunch of her neck snapping. Sebastian exhales, his breath filled with the intoxication of power.
FRANK: Sarah! Sarah! Goddamnit. Stay with me now. Don't you let up. Sarah! Sarah! No response. Frank doesn't know whether to stay or go after her. He starts toward the door several times but can't leave Carter. Finally the door opens. Sarah! I'm losing him. But it's Linda and Matt. Did you see her? Linda rushes over to check on Carter.
LINDA: Where is she?
FRANK: She went to the supply room. Carter needed blood. Linda grabs a stethoscope and listens to Carter's heart.
LINDA: I said no one goes anywhere alone.
FRANK: She didn't listen. She-slowly pulls Frank's hand away from the wound. He's dead. Linda would love to cry about it, but doesn't afford herself the luxury.
LINDA: He's dead. Linda would love to cry about it, but doesn't afford herself the luxury.
LINDA: Oh god. Sarah! The group breaks into a run. Linda pushes into the chamber and falls at Sarah's side. Matt cradles Sarah's head. They look for some sign of life as Linda fights back the tears. Her too? Matt nods. Linda slams the cubicle wall with her fist.
FRANK: Her too? Matt nods. Linda slams the cubicle wall with her fist.
LINDA: This didn't happen. This hasn't It happened alright. Now we have to deal with it. Matt puts his hands on her shoulder to calm her. She pushes him off.
MATT: It happened alright. Now we have to deal with it. Matt puts his hands on her shoulder to calm her. She pushes him off.
FRANK: Yeah? And just what are we supposed to do now?
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: Now? Now you die. The three of them whip around.
LINDA: He's here!
MATT: Silence. The three cautiously move out. They stand back to back, each one facing out. They move toward the door of the Chamber. No response. They all their tranq pistols level waiting for some sign. Hearing each other breathe. They slowly move outside the Chamber into the corridor.
LINDA: Silence. The three cautiously move out. They stand back to back, each one facing out. They move toward the door of the Chamber. No response. They all their tranq pistols level waiting for some sign. Hearing each other breathe. They slowly move outside the Chamber into the corridor.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: I would say that what I am experiencing is psychological awareness. I like you being in complete and absolute control. They identify the general area the voice is coming from: Back inside the Chamber! They slowly move toward the Chamber door. With lightning speed they slam the door shut, locking Sebastian inside the Recovery Chamber.
LINDA: You goddamn bastard! You goddamn bastard. You're gonna pay for this. I'm going to bring you back to visibility and then I'm going throw your ass in jail.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: You're never gonna bring me back Linda. I never want to come back.
LINDA: Fuck you!
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: Or maybe I'll fuck you. One last time for old times sake. Linda slams her fist against the wall of the Chamber.
MATT: Don't listen to him. It's not worth Come on, Matt. Let's go get the elevator back on-line so we can got out of this hell hole. Matt gives Linda a kiss.
FRANK: Come on, Matt. Let's go get the elevator back on-line so we can got out of this hell hole. Matt gives Linda a kiss.
MATT: He does anything, anything at all, come get us. I'll be back to check on you in five. Matt and Frank head off down the corridor.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: Imagine you two, carrying on right under my nose. Out of curiosity, what did he give you that I couldn't?
LINDA: Shut up, Sebastian. He's more of a man than you'll ever be.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: Okay, sweetie. I'll be quiet. If that's what you want. Sebastian TOGGLES the intercom switch OFF. We pan over to one of the working video screens . Matt and Frank stride down the hallway. The chair swivels and the observation room door swings open slightly.
LINDA: Sebastian? Sebastian? No.. No. Linda bangs on the glass. She looks. No movement, no nothing. She listens. Shit. She takes off running. Matt! Frank! Tracking with Linda as she rushes down the hall. Matt! Matt! Frank!
LINDA: Linda rushes over and slams into Matt. They fall to the ground. Linda crawls over to Matt, but her head snaps back and her lips erupt with blood.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: Figured it out? You were always so Matt's pulled back across the lab by the cord around his neck. He grabs at the cord trying to breathe. Linda watches him being pulled away.
LINDA: She clamors over to him. But Matt rises in the air and is tossed against the lab table. Linda levels her dart pistol and fires haphazardly at the air. She hits nothing but objects jerk and move in a line as Sebastian heads for cover. Linda manages to grab Matt and pull him to
MATT: Get out of here! Linda pulls Matt toward the door.
LINDA: ( yelling ) You won't get away with this. They'll find out about you. They'll hunt you SEBASTIAN'S VOICE The villagers with their torches? Lock up your daughters! Sorry, Lin. It's not gonna happen that way. Linda hits the lights. The lab is now very, very dark. SEBASTIAN'S VOICE ( cont'd ) See, I've spent all my time down here thinking up this plan. When they find you, they'll find a pile of charred corpses. The result of a terrible accident, I'm afraid. Linda reacts to the voice as it grows nearer. She navigates the maze of equipment, heading toward the crack of light at the front door.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: The villagers with their torches? Lock up your daughters! Sorry, Lin. It's not gonna happen that way. Linda hits the lights. The lab is now very, very dark. See, I've spent all my time down here thinking up this plan. When they find you, they'll find a pile of charred corpses. The result of a terrible accident, I'm afraid. Linda reacts to the voice as it grows nearer. She navigates the maze of equipment, heading toward the crack of light at the front door.
LINDA: How can you be so brutal?
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE: I guess because I don't have to look at myself in the mirror anymore Remember that first night I was out? I did something bad, just to see if I could get away with it. And when I did, I realized I could have it all. I can kill in broad daylight. And nobody's gonna tell the police they were fucked by a ghost. Anything I desire I can make happen, but not if people know. Linda and Matt have reached the door of the lab. She pushes through it and slams it behind her.
MATT: I'm dizzy. I can't feel my legs.
LINDA: Just keep going. I'll fix you later.
LINDA: Matt. Matthew. Stay with me now. Linda pulls his scrubs open. The wounds are many and He surprised us. We weren't Shhh. Don't talk. BAM! Something slams against the door. Bam! Slams against it again. The old deadbolt is buckling. Linda looks around the room and sees the storage freezer. We gotta move. Hang on. Linda helps Matt up and into the storage freezer.
MATT: He surprised us. We weren't Shhh. Don't talk. BAM! Something slams against the door. Bam! Slams against it again. The old deadbolt is buckling. Linda looks around the room and sees the storage freezer. We gotta move. Hang on. Linda helps Matt up and into the storage freezer.
LINDA: Shhh. Don't talk. BAM! Something slams against the door. Bam! Slams against it again. The old deadbolt is buckling. Linda looks around the room and sees the storage freezer. We gotta move. Hang on. Linda helps Matt up and into the storage freezer.
MATT: He entire shirt is stained with blood. He's having trouble breathing. Linda picks up his hand. Grips it tight.
LINDA: You feel that? Matt smiles.
MATT: A little. She rips his shirt open. and sees his wounds. She grabs a vial of alcohol and dumps it on her hands and then probes the wound.
LINDA: Your losing blood, but he didn't hit the vitals. She looks around. Sutures and thread. She rises, and looks outside the porthole into the room. Suddenly it fogs up and she almost sees a face. She stumbles backward, and the door starts rattling. Linda scrambles over to hold the metal crowbar in place. Sebastian pulls and rattles on the freezer door. To no avail. It's not gonna budge. Finally he gives up. The door stops shaking. Linda is relieved, briefly. Still. Then she hears the click of the door locking.
LINDA: Linda looks around the storage room. She grabs a roll of duct tape and pulls off a length.
MATT: What're you doing?
LINDA: This is temporary. She takes paper towel and cleans off Matt's wound. She tapes it, using duct tape. You still with me?
MATT: A beat later, the compressor begins pumping Arctic air into the freezer.
LINDA: Just keeps getting worse. Linda returns to the door. Shakes it.
LINDA: Oh shit. The inside thermometer has dropped to five degrees. Linda grabs the metal bar and starts smashing it against the porthole. The metal bar just bounces off the glass.
MATT: There's no way out.
LINDA: There's got to be.
MATT: They say freezing to death isn't so bad. You just kinda pass out. Matt's head rolls back.
LINDA: Matt! MATT! She checks his pulse. Thank god he still has one, but he's not gonna last long. They're both already starting to turn a little blue. Linda stares desperately up at the shelves, trying to find some sort of advantage. Then she sees something. She looks back at the door lock and then she rises . and grabs AN EXTENSION CORD coiled on the We're not dying in here.
ELEVATOR: Authorization please?
SEBASTIAN: Caine. One One One One One.
ELEVATOR: Authorization valid. Thank you.
LINDA: And there's Linda. Slicked with dirt and blood. She holds a oxygen container with a cut line.
SEBASTIAN: You said it yourself, Lin. I shouldn't hold on to the past. The door starts to shut.
LINDA: She hits the top of a LIGHTER duct-taped to the hose. A line of PRESSURIZED FIRE BLOWS into the elevator. WWHHHOOOOSSHHHH! Sebastian goes up in flame. Linda runs toward the elevator. Just as the door's about to close, she slides. Her foot jamming into it. She lets loose with the flame again. Sebastian, backed into the corner, has no where to go. He's yelling in pain. His latex FACE BUBBLES and burns. The surgical scrubs SINGE BLACK. With no other escape route, he dives toward the door. Linda looks up to see his flaming body fly over her, back into the corridor. Linda kills the tank as Sebastian continues to burn. The elevator lights flickers and the security panel goes up in a shower of sparks. The elevator dies. Linda pulls herself to her feet and turns to see. Half of Sebastian's head MELTED AWAY, his latex facade a gruesome smoke-damaged mass. His clothes are half burned revealing large blistering bubbly welts underneath, like deformed blackened bubble wrap. Sebastian crawls to his feet, but Linda hits him with another shot of flame. Sebastian pulls at his clothes as he crawls around the Linda stalks toward him.
SEBASTIAN: Oh God! Linda stalks toward him.
LINDA: You wanna see God? I'll show you God. Linda turns the corner to see a heap of smoldering latex and clothing strewn about the corridor floor. Sebastian, looking like some ugly creature, pushes down the corridor. He throbs with his blackened skin blistering and cracking up and down his body. Linda lets loose another jet of flame. It's smaller than the first and doesn't quite hit Sebastian. Linda checks the tanks pressure gauge. It slowly drops. Linda follows the blackened horror into the maze of tunnels. But as he pushes along the corridor, his burns slowly re- absorb themselves. Sebastian is no longer visible. A quiet moment in the hallway as Linda realizes how vulnerable she is. She looks around for him desperately. Nothing. But something on the ceiling catches her attention. She blasts it with the last jet of her dying torch. THE SPRINKLER SYSTEM, hit by fire, comes to life. Water sprays down on the tunnel. Sebastian is caught in the downpour, his invisible frame outlined by water. It comes toward her, the hot skin steaming in the water. He grabs Linda and slams her against the wall. His watery hand smashes her across her face. Linda reels. On the floor, she looks to see Sebastian stalking toward her. She crawls away, but he grabs her by her hair, pulls her to her feet and slams her against the wall.
SEBASTIAN: I'm gonna find everyone in your family and kill them-. Your sister. she never liked me. I think I'll go after her and her little boy first. Sebastian smashes her head against a metal post. Her head cuts open, blood dripping down. I just wanted you to know that before you die. Linda collapses to the floor. Sebastian's foot presses against her neck, squeezing it. Linda gags for breath. But through the shoot of water that is Sebastian, we see something also. a watery smudge.
BAM!: MATT - smashes Sebastian with the metal bar. Sebastian slams against the corridor wall and sinks down. Matt staggers. It's taken all his strength to got there. He drops the crowbar and seeks the wall for support, he sinks to his knees by Linda.
MATT: Thought I'd. thought I'd save you for a change. He gives her his hand and pulls her up into his arms. Let's got out of here. Just as the two turn, Sebastian rises with the crowbar. He swings it with a yell. Matt pushes Linda out of the way, his arm glancing the blow into a conduit. The conduit splits open and severs ELECTRICAL wiring. The VOLTAGE shoots up the crowbar and into Sebastian. As the current pulses through his body, Sebastian vibrates. His blood vessels yank back to visibility, followed by his skeletal structure and major organs. Sebastian is slowly electrified. Smoke pours off him and he becomes more and more visible. Finally he collapses. His body throbbing in and out of visibility. Matt and Linda stumble away.
LINDA: Matt peaks inside.
MATT: He said it himself. All they'll find is a pile of charred corpses. She sees the centrifuge. The timed counter on its face counts down from a minute. Fifty nine. Fifty eight. Fifty He's rigged the centrifuge.
LINDA: He's rigged the centrifuge.
MATT: In an enclosed space, he'll wipe out the whole lab.
LINDA: Grab on. Linda hooks the crowbar onto the hatch lip and pulls herself up. She reaches back down for Matt.
MATT: Forget about me. You go.
LINDA: Fuck you. Give me your hands. Linda grabs Matt's hands and pulls for all she's worth. She struggles, but they both manage to got him through the hatch.
LINDA: Matt starts up, rung after rung. Linda climbs right behind him.
MATT: Matt starts up, rung after rung. Linda climbs right behind him.
LINDA: Matt starts up, rung after rung. Linda climbs right behind him.
MATT: I can't. I'm going to pass out.
LINDA: Keep moving. He does, through sheer force of will. Blood from his wound drips down on Linda's face. No telling how much further they have to go in this darkness. Light leaks in from the maintenance hatch below.
LINDA: Oh God!
MATT: Don't look. The carriage accelerates toward them, faster and faster. Its loose cables whip around the shaft, slapping the walls around the pair. Its gonna hit them! Linda pulls herself close to the ladder and closes her eyes. She's pressed against Matt. The elevator. 50 feet. 40 . 30 . W0000000SH! It flames RIGHT BY THEM. When Linda opens her eyes, the elevator is HUNDREDS OF FEET ABOVE THEM and a wall of fire is below them, closing Panicked, Linda pushes Matt up the ladder as she stares down at the rising fire wall. But the fire dissipates before it hits them, though a stray tongue of flames reaches up to lick the soles of her feet. They hear a terrifying moan and looks up to see the elevator peaking far above her. It slows to a stop and
LINDA: Panicked, Linda pushes Matt up the ladder as she stares down at the rising fire wall. But the fire dissipates before it hits them, though a stray tongue of flames reaches up to lick the soles of her feet. They hear a terrifying moan and looks up to see the elevator peaking far above her. It slows to a stop and
MATT: It's coming down! FASTER AND FASTER. Coming back toward them in complete free- fall. It's emergency brakes clamp down, slowing it. Metal against metal. Sparks flying. One of the brakes shears. Then another. The elevator unseats from it's tracks, SLAMMING against the walls as it TUMBLES. Linda sees that the elevator is out of control, and watches as it ping-pongs toward them. smashing into the access ladder, smashing into the wall. The elevator slows, but continues slamming side-to-side. Linda cringes as the elevator crashes into the wall above them. But it jams there, stopping. They pull their heads away from wall and look up. The elevator just hangs there, suspended. There's a small crawlspace between the elevator and the C'mon. Before it slips. They begins to climb up again. Matt shimmies through the tight hollow, and squeezes out the other side, followed by Linda. She breathes a sigh of relief and just hangs there a moment when . Ah! Something grabs her. A singed throbbing hand emerges from the darkness, gripping at her It's him. She kicks at it and sees a dark dirty face - a swirl of dirt, grime and smoke with hollow eyes - rise up the Sebastian, you fuck.
LINDA: C'mon. Before it slips. They begins to climb up again. Matt shimmies through the tight hollow, and squeezes out the other side, followed by Linda. She breathes a sigh of relief and just hangs there a moment when . Ah! Something grabs her. A singed throbbing hand emerges from the darkness, gripping at her It's him. She kicks at it and sees a dark dirty face - a swirl of dirt, grime and smoke with hollow eyes - rise up the Sebastian, you fuck.
MATT: Sebastian, you fuck.
LINDA: Get off me. Sebastian pulls himself up Linda's body. Translucent dirty hands paving at the fabric of her clothes. Linda tries to climb with this thing on her. But Sebastian grabs her around the neck. She begins choking for breath. Linda fights to keep her grip on the ladder. She looks down at the ten foot drop to the elevator and then. She lets go!
MATT: She and Sebastian plummet through the smoky haze and slam against the top of the elevator. Linda seems to hover a few above the elevator, Sebastian's shadowy outline below her. Matt painfully lowers himself down the ladder. But metal groans and the elevator drops another five feet. Linda struggles to her feet. Sebastian rises. A menacing dark figure stalking toward her. Linda pushes back from him. Sebastian grabs her by the hair and pulls bar over to the ladder. The elevator strains and groans.
LINDA: Let go of me. Sebastian presses her up against the ladder. Presses into her from behind. He has her trapped. His dirty hand reaches out and strokes her hair.
SEBASTIAN: Remember the day we met? You were wearing a red dress and you were so pretty. Now. Now look at you.
MATT: Get off of her! Sebastian pulls her hair back and kisses her neck with his filthy, dirt-smeared mouth and half-burned away face. Sebastian, stop it. Linda and Sebastian struggle. Matt reaches down to try and grab her, help her.
SEBASTIAN: You fucked it all up. Linda looks at her feet. The last elevator emergency brake grips its cable. She grits her tooth and grabs hold of the ladder.
LINDA: Go to hell. Linda stamps on the brake release. The ELEVATOR TUMBLES . along with Sebastian. It slams into the fiery abyss a hundred yards below. Linda hangs, one hand holding onto the ladder, the other holding onto Matt. Matt pulls her back onto the ladder, using all his remaining strength.
MARINE GUARD: What happened?
LINDA: We lived. Linda looks over her shoulder at the traces of the ruin and she sees a shimmer of heat rising from the ground. almost as if something was there.
FADE: Writers : Gary Scott Thompson Andrew W. Marlowe
