HORRIBLE BOSSES: Written by Michael Markowitz
NICK: He opens the freezer. It contains nothing but multiple boxes of "Jimmy Dean's Breakfast Bowl with Bacon!" He pops one in the microwave, then glances over at a framed photo of a slightly younger Nick kissing a smiling OLD WOMAN on the cheek. The frame reads: "I Y Grandma!" Nick sighs sadly.
NICK: ( CHEERY )
NICK: Yeah, sorry. This is like the only time I have to make any personal calls. I just wanted to see if you felt like going out again because I had a great time with you on our last date.
NICK: I know and that's my bad. I've been swamped at work
NICK: Right. Well, I'm up for a promotion which will give me a lot more free time
NICK: DISSOLVE TO:
NICK: See you in my office?
HARKEN: See you in my office?
MOMENTS LATER: of the lobby security camera footage on a television. The time code at the bottom of the screen reads "6:02." We see Nick looking up at the camera and silently mouthing the word "Fuck!" The image freezes and we PULL BACK to see Harken holding the remote. Nick stands across from him.
HARKEN: Here's my concern, Nick. You're a punctual guy. You understand the importance of getting to work on time. So that leaves me to wonder if there isn't something wrong with the internal clock in our security system. What do you I don't know, Mr. Harken. I might have been a minute late.
NICK: I don't know, Mr. Harken. I might have been a minute late.
HARKEN: Two minutes according to this. So either you're a liar which I know you're not or our system is off by a full minute. And if that's the case, I have no choice but to dismiss Thomas, our longtime security coordinator.
NICK: Okay, I might have been two minutes late. There's an uncomfortable beat. Then
HARKEN: So you did lie.
NICK: No, I Harken picks up the phone.
NICK: Who are you calling?
HARKEN: Thomas. I'm letting him go.
NICK: Wait! Okay, I guess I lied. But I didn't mean to
HARKEN: ( hangs up phone ) Trust is everything in this office, my friend. I know you've been working your tail off for that promotion, but if I can't trust you, how can I make you Senior VP of Sales?
NICK: I understand. You can trust me.
HARKEN: Now you sound like my wife. He glances at a framed photo on his desk.
HARKEN: ( IMITATING HER )
NICK: ( UNCOMFORTABLE )
YOU: How could you possibly know that?
HARKEN: How could you possibly know that?
NICK: I don't.
HARKEN: Are you making love to my wife, What?! No!
NICK: What?! No!
HARKEN: I'm just kidding around. She's out of your league. No offense.
NICK: None taken.
HARKEN: Harken has crossed to a credenza with several bottles of booze, two glasses and an ice bucket. He begins to fill a glass with ice and Scotch.
HARKEN: Would you like one?
NICK: It's 8:15.
HARKEN: You think there's something wrong with a man enjoying a drink in the No, no. It's fine. I'd love a Harken hands him the drink he just poured.
NICK: ( QUICKLY )
NICK: Thank you.
HARKEN: My pleasure. Harken returns to his chair and sits.
NICK: Aren't you having one?
HARKEN: It's 8:15, Nick. I'm not an Oh. Well, I only took it because I thought you were having one.
NICK: Oh. Well, I only took it because I thought you were having one.
HARKEN: You took a drink because you thought I was going to have one?
NICK: Well, I
HARKEN: What if you thought I was going to dip my balls in honey and shaved coconut? Would you do that too?
NICK: ( LAUGHING NERVOUSLY )
HARKEN: Of course not. Anyway, we've moved up the date of the AGM so you're gonna need to complete your due diligence by Monday. You'll probably need to be here all Hey, you want a promotion, you've gotta earn it. Life's a marathon and you can't win a marathon without putting a few Band-Aids on your nipples.
NICK: ( SIGHS )
HARKEN: Hey, you want a promotion, you've gotta earn it. Life's a marathon and you can't win a marathon without putting a few Band-Aids on your nipples.
NICK: ( huh? ) Got it. Nick gets up to go.
HARKEN: Nick turns back.
HARKEN: That's 18-year-old Scotch. I can't really pour it back into the Nick, unsure of what to do, picks up the glass and gulps it down.
HARKEN: That should carry you till lunch, 16 EXT. DENTAL OFFICE - DAY 16 A car pulls up outside the modest building.
STACY: Boy, I have to get used to driving with this heavy ring on. I keep swerving to the left.
DALE: Aww. You really like it?
STACY: I love it. I feel like a queen.
DALE: Well, you're my queen. I love you, Stacy.
STACY: Have a great day at work. They kiss. Dale exits the car.
INTO: 22 INT. EXAMINATION ROOM - CONTINUOUS ACTION 22
JULIA: All right, Mr. Anderton, I'm going to give you the nitrous now and your root canal will be over before you know it.
JULIA: ( loudly, over the
DRILL ): How are you today, Dale?
DALE: I'm fine. Thanks.
JULIA: You get a haircut?
DALE: Looks good.
JULIA: Looks good.
DALE: Thank you.
JULIA: You ever watch that show, `Gossip Uh, no.
DALE: Uh, no.
JULIA: I watched it last night. I'll tell you, lot of cuties on that Number 7 scraper, please. Dale hands her a tool.
JULIA: Thank you. I fingered myself so hard to Penn Badgely, I broke a Dale sighs and looks down at the unconscious Mr. Anderton. This obviously isn't the first time Julia has spoken this way.
JULIA: I'd let that kid put it in my ass. Bet he's packing a plus-size sausage under those True ( then, looking up at
DALE ): I need the probe.
DALE: I need the probe.
JULIA: I need the probe.
DALE: Oh, right. He hands her the tool.
JULIA: Bet you're no shrimp in the cock department either, huh, Dale?
DALE: Julia, please.
JULIA: Oh, come on. You know I like to fool around. She lifts the patient's limp hand and cups it over her Mr. Anderton! Bad! She smacks the lifeless hand and cackles with laughter.
JULIA: ( FEIGNING SHOCK )
JULIA: Okay, enough fun. Let's get back to work. Water, please.
DALE: Sorry, I'm a squirter. ( studying his groin ) I think I can just make out our friend. Looks like someone is All right, Julia, listen. You can't keep doing this.
JULIA: Sorry, I'm a squirter. ( studying his groin ) I think I can just make out our friend. Looks like someone is All right, Julia, listen. You can't keep doing this.
DALE: All right, Julia, listen. You can't keep doing this.
JULIA: I know, I know, you have a
GIRLFRIEND: She's not my girlfriend anymore. Stacy and I got engaged last Julia's whole demeanor changes. She becomes deadly We're engaged.
DALE: She's not my girlfriend anymore. Stacy and I got engaged last Julia's whole demeanor changes. She becomes deadly We're engaged.
JULIA: We're engaged.
DALE: We're engaged.
JULIA: You're actually going to marry that little dummy?
DALE: I thought you said she was just a hole for your dick.
JULIA: I thought you said she was just a hole for your dick.
DALE: That's a horrible thing to say. I never said that! Mr. Anderton GROANS groggily.
JULIA: ( OMINOUSLY )
UPS GIRL: Excuse me? Can you sign for this, Whoa, whoa. Hold on. What is I'm sorry?
KURT: ( TAKING IT ) ( LOOKING UP ) UPS GIRL
UPS GIRL: I'm sorry?
KURT: This is one of those hidden camera shows, isn't it?
UPS GIRL: What do you mean?
KURT: Come on. You're way too good- looking to be a UPS girl. What are you, a model? An actress? What's gonna happen when I open this box? Is something going to jump out at me?
UPS GIRL: ( GRINNING )
KURT: Shut up.
UPS GIRL: ( PLAYFULLY )
KURT: Well, then, I need to take you out to dinner.
UPS GIRL: Because I want to be able to tell my friends that I took out the hottest UPS girl in America. Come on, what do you say? She considers this briefly, then scribbles her number on a Post-it note.
KURT: Because I want to be able to tell my friends that I took out the hottest UPS girl in America. Come on, what do you say? She considers this briefly, then scribbles her number on a Post-it note.
KURT: Awesome. I'm Kurt.
UPS GIRL: Pretty name. How's Tuesday? Macaroni Grill?
KURT: Pretty name. How's Tuesday? Macaroni Grill?
UPS GIRL: See you then, Myrna. She heads off. Kurt opens his DATEBOOK and scribbles "UPS Girl" in the Tuesday slot. We see every night of the week is filled with appointments with other women: "Barnes & Noble girl," "Lauren? Laura?," "Blonde Chick" and so on.
KURT: See you then, Myrna. She heads off. Kurt opens his DATEBOOK and scribbles "UPS Girl" in the Tuesday slot. We see every night of the week is filled with appointments with other women: "Barnes & Noble girl," "Lauren? Laura?," "Blonde Chick" and so on.
KURT: Hey, Jack. Yeah, just doing my part for the women of America.
JACK: ( CHUCKLING )
KURT: That sounds a lot more innocent than `sex addict.'
JACK: Walk with me, Kurt. The two of them head toward the exit.
JACK: I wanted to talk to you about
KURT: Last quarter's profits? I ran the numbers. We're down by 11 percent It's this damn recession. What about cost-cutting measures?
JACK: It's this damn recession. What about cost-cutting measures?
KURT: Well, I know you don't want to cut
STAFF: No way. These people have worked their asses off for me. There's no reason they should suffer. Kurt looks at his boss with admiration. There's a lot of love between these two.
JACK: No way. These people have worked their asses off for me. There's no reason they should suffer. Kurt looks at his boss with admiration. There's a lot of love between these two.
KURT: There's also the issue of our hazardous waste disposal. We're paying a lot right now and the Bolivians have come back with a very good offer.
JACK: You know why it's good? Because they'll dump our chemicals in rivers, pollute water supplies and hurt people. I've spent my life building this company.
KURT: No, I wouldn't. As they pass the unisex rest room, they see MARGIE, 30s and clearly pregnant, looking uncomfortable as she waits to get in.
JACK: Everything okay, Margie?
MARGIE: Oh hi, Mr. Pellit. Kurt. I've just been waiting to get in there for a while now.
JACK: Who's in there?
MARGIE: It's. your son.
JACK: ( SIGHS )
PELLIT: What the fuck?! A guy can't get any privacy in this place!
JACK: It's all yours, Margie. Margie quickly slips into the rest room and shuts the You know, Bobby, you seem to be spending more time in that bathroom than at your desk these Well, then, you're fucking stupid, Dad. Because that's clearly not All I ask is that you do your part around here, son.
JACK: You know, Bobby, you seem to be spending more time in that bathroom than at your desk these Well, then, you're fucking stupid, Dad. Because that's clearly not All I ask is that you do your part around here, son.
PELLIT: Well, then, you're fucking stupid, Dad. Because that's clearly not All I ask is that you do your part around here, son.
JACK: All I ask is that you do your part around here, son.
PELLIT: I do my part. I do other people's parts. But you just like to ride my ass because I'm your son. I don't see you screaming at
JACK: ( PATIENTLY )
PELLIT: ( SNORTS )
JACK: ( HEADING OFF )
PELLIT: Yeah, that's what I thought. Jack and Kurt pass a receptionist desk and go out into
JACK: Tell me something, Kurt. Are you happy here?
KURT: You kidding? It's the best job in the world.
JACK: I'm glad to hear you say that. I'm rewriting my will tonight and there's going to be a special place for you in there. He gives Kurt a hug like a doting father, then climbs into his car. As Jack pulls out and begins driving across the parking lot, Kurt waves. Suddenly, the car's HORN begins to honk in a CONSTANT BLARE. Kurt lowers his hand as the car veers off the pavement, slowly cruising into a tree where it stops abruptly, the horn still A bewildered Kurt runs toward the car, as we
KURT: He died instantly. They say his heart burst in his chest like a water balloon. PAN to reveal Kurt is sitting with Dale, who looks just as dejected.
DALE: Wow. Sorry, man. He was like a dad to you.
KURT: I loved him. And I loved working for him. And now his idiot son is gonna be in charge. You know how many times I've caught him doing blow at work? PAN FURTHER to reveal Nick sitting beside Dale.
NICK: That sucks. You were the only one of us who didn't totally hate his Did I tell you Harken tricked me into having a drink at eight o'clock this morning? The guy's the devil.
DALE: I thought he was giving you a He is. And he's got to do it before the General Meeting next Well, at least your boss doesn't sexually harass you.
NICK: He is. And he's got to do it before the General Meeting next Well, at least your boss doesn't sexually harass you.
DALE: Well, at least your boss doesn't sexually harass you.
KURT: This again?
DALE: I'm telling you, she's out of control. It's a full-on hostile work environment.
KURT: She's a woman who wants to have sex with you. How bad can it be?
DALE: Today she sprayed my crotch with water so she could see the outline of my wiener.
KURT: Why don't you just fuck her?
DALE: I'm engaged!
KURT: Oh yeah. Congratulations, by the Thank you.
DALE: Thank you.
NICK: There's gotta be other dental hygienist jobs out there.
DALE: I can't apply for another job, Oh, right. Because you'd have to tell them you're a child molester.
KURT: Oh, right. Because you'd have to tell them you're a child molester.
NICK: He's not a child molester. He just took his dick out in a It was nighttime and I was peeing! And it's bullshit that I got put on the registered sex offender list for that!
DALE: It was nighttime and I was peeing! And it's bullshit that I got put on the registered sex offender list for that!
KURT: It worked out. Julia probably hired you because she's a sexual deviant herself.
DALE: Why would they put a playground next to a bar anyway? That's A SEMI-CUTE GIRL walks past.
KURT: ( WITH JOYLESS RESIGNATION )
RESIGNATION ): Well, I should go see if that girl wants to bone. Kurt groans as he pulls himself out of the booth.
NICK: I thought you were all broken up about your boss dying.
KURT: This is how I grieve, okay? Kurt heads off after the girl.
DALE: Man. He must be grieving all the 27 INT. COMMTRONIX INDUSTRIES CONFERENCE ROOM - NEXT DAY 27 Nick sits alongside five other CO-WORKERS at a conference table. Harken's chair at the head is empty. Nick pours himself some water from a glass pitcher on the table.
NICK: He did say ten o'clock, right?
NICK: It just said `staff meeting' on the memo.
HARKEN: And I didn't know I had to punch a clock with you.
NICK: You don't. Of course you don't. I'm sorry
HARKEN: I'm going to attribute this to your drinking problem.
NICK: I don't have a
HARKEN: ( with a smile to the
OTHERS ): Let's get started. Shall we? Nick's eyes narrow. Suddenly, he grabs the heavy glass pitcher from the table and SHATTERS IT AGAINST HARKEN'S FACE. Shards of glass fly everywhere as Harken falls from his chair onto the floor.
HARKEN: Okay, have we figured out our best sales distribution plan for the new model year handsets?
HARKEN: I simulated a number of sales cycles, factoring in likely end- users, point-of-sale limitations and specific demographic And in my opinion, an open plan selling process in our top 30 markets along with targeted upgrade offers to existing customers promises the greatest Harken nods. Is he impressed?
NICK: I simulated a number of sales cycles, factoring in likely end- users, point-of-sale limitations and specific demographic And in my opinion, an open plan selling process in our top 30 markets along with targeted upgrade offers to existing customers promises the greatest Harken nods. Is he impressed?
HARKEN: And in my opinion, an open plan selling process in our top 30 markets along with targeted upgrade offers to existing customers promises the greatest Harken nods. Is he impressed?
NICK: And in my opinion, an open plan selling process in our top 30 markets along with targeted upgrade offers to existing customers promises the greatest Harken nods. Is he impressed?
HARKEN: Thank you, Nick. Did everyone see how he did that? Yes, he may be a pathological liar and have a crippling drinking problem, but when the chips are down, Nick has what it takes. Nick glows.
HARKEN: Which brings us to our next order of business. I've decided who I want as our new Senior VP of Sales. He's sitting right here among you. Everyone turns to look at Nick.
HARKEN: It's me. Everyone's head snaps back to Harken.
NICK: ( CONTINUED ) 28 CONTINUED: ( 2 ) 28
HARKEN: I've decided to absorb the responsibilities of the Senior VP position into my own. I realized if you want something done right, you do it yourself. So, I'm going to be knocking down the wall between my office and what would've been the Senior VP's to create a single, enormous office. However, as a cost-cutting measure, I will only be taking 85% of the additional salary I'm entitled to. It's called self- sacrifice, people. Learn from Harken heads out.
NICK: Mr. Harken, can I speak to you?
HARKEN: What is it?
NICK: You've been hinting for months that I was in line for that And look how hard you've worked.
HARKEN: And look how hard you've worked.
NICK: So you've just been lying to me?
HARKEN: Not lying. Motivating. We're all on the same team here, Nick. We're all trying to find Lorenzo's oil before it's too late for little Lorenzo. Besides, I'm the one who's taking on a lot more ( barely keeping it
NICK: ( barely keeping it
TOGETHER ): Last month you kept me working so late I didn't get to say goodbye to Gam Gam!
HARKEN: My grandmother. I told you I needed to see her but you said I'd be fired if I left early. She died before I could get to the She taught me how to swim
NICK: My grandmother. I told you I needed to see her but you said I'd be fired if I left early. She died before I could get to the She taught me how to swim
HARKEN: Oh, my God. I had no idea. that you called your grandmother Gam I don't mean to laugh, but that's ( off Nick's outraged
LOOK ): Look, Nick, I'm sorry you didn't get to say bye-bye to Gam Gam. I make you work late because you're an invaluable part of this operation. And I need you in your current position.
NICK: I've been in that position for eight years now. Why would I stay here after being treated like Because I will see to it that no one else in our industry will hire Anyone who interviews you will want my letter of recommendation. And I'm prepared to tell them that you are a dishonest, insubordinate But that's not true! You can't do Harken gets directly in Nick's face, speaking softly but Let me make this clear, you weak, little fuck. I own you. You're my bitch. Don't make the mistake of thinking you have free will. Because I can crush you any time I ( stepping back,
HARKEN: Because I will see to it that no one else in our industry will hire Anyone who interviews you will want my letter of recommendation. And I'm prepared to tell them that you are a dishonest, insubordinate But that's not true! You can't do Harken gets directly in Nick's face, speaking softly but Let me make this clear, you weak, little fuck. I own you. You're my bitch. Don't make the mistake of thinking you have free will. Because I can crush you any time I ( stepping back,
NICK: Anyone who interviews you will want my letter of recommendation. And I'm prepared to tell them that you are a dishonest, insubordinate But that's not true! You can't do Harken gets directly in Nick's face, speaking softly but Let me make this clear, you weak, little fuck. I own you. You're my bitch. Don't make the mistake of thinking you have free will. Because I can crush you any time I ( stepping back,
HARKEN: Anyone who interviews you will want my letter of recommendation. And I'm prepared to tell them that you are a dishonest, insubordinate But that's not true! You can't do Harken gets directly in Nick's face, speaking softly but Let me make this clear, you weak, little fuck. I own you. You're my bitch. Don't make the mistake of thinking you have free will. Because I can crush you any time I ( stepping back,
NICK: But that's not true! You can't do Harken gets directly in Nick's face, speaking softly but Let me make this clear, you weak, little fuck. I own you. You're my bitch. Don't make the mistake of thinking you have free will. Because I can crush you any time I ( stepping back,
HARKEN: Let me make this clear, you weak, little fuck. I own you. You're my bitch. Don't make the mistake of thinking you have free will. Because I can crush you any time I ( stepping back,
KURT: You're three hours late. What's the deal?
PELLIT: You're three hours late. What's the deal?
KURT: I was at your father's funeral.
PELLIT: Maybe that excuse would've flown when my dad was here, but I'm in charge now.
KURT: That excuse wouldn't have made any sense when your dad was here.
PELLIT: In my office. Now.
PELLIT: Kurt sits. Bobby quickly slips a small mirror and rolled up dollar bill into a drawer. Kurt sees Bobby has tossed most of Jack's mementos, achievement awards and photos with luminaries in the trash.
PELLIT: I've been looking over the books. You're the accountant. Tell me why this company is in the It's not in the crapper. It's a recession. But we're still Bullshit. Look, I know you and my dad were pals. Frankly, I always thought it was weird and gay and I never understood why my dad thought you were so great. But it doesn't matter now because he's in the ground and I'm your boss. And there's gonna be some changes around here. First of all. ( pointing to a
KURT: It's not in the crapper. It's a recession. But we're still Bullshit. Look, I know you and my dad were pals. Frankly, I always thought it was weird and gay and I never understood why my dad thought you were so great. But it doesn't matter now because he's in the ground and I'm your boss. And there's gonna be some changes around here. First of all. ( pointing to a
PELLIT: Bullshit. Look, I know you and my dad were pals. Frankly, I always thought it was weird and gay and I never understood why my dad thought you were so great. But it doesn't matter now because he's in the ground and I'm your boss. And there's gonna be some changes around here. First of all. ( pointing to a
KURT: Your father made the decision to pay a little more to dispose of our chemical waste responsibly.
PELLIT: Yeah, fuck that. We've got an offer from Bolivia to dump the stuff for a third the cost.
KURT: But that would endanger thousands of local residents.
PELLIT: So some jungle tribesmen get cancer. Boo friggin' hoo.
KURT: They're not tribesmen. It's a
MODERN: ( THEN )
PELLIT: Well then, we're right on schedule, aren't we? Kurt's eyes narrow. He reaches into the trash can and grabs one of Jack's discarded ACHIEVEMENT TROPHIES and PLUNGES its pointy end deep into Pellit's chest, impaling him in his chair.
PELLIT: Oh, and we also need to trim the fat around here.
KURT: ( snapping out of it ) What do you mean?
PELLIT: I want you to fire the fat people. They're slow and lazy and they make me sad to look at. Start with Large Marge. ANGLE ON Margie at her desk.
KURT: Margie's not fat. She's pregnant. I'm not firing her.
PELLIT: Fine. Then fire Professor Xavier over there. ANGLE ON a balding, middle-aged man in a wheelchair, HANK, who sits at a desk near Margie's.
KURT: He creeps me out. Rolling around in that weird little chair of his.
PELLIT: He creeps me out. Rolling around in that weird little chair of his.
KURT: I'm not firing anyone! It's like you don't care about this company at all.
PELLIT: No shit. You think when I was a kid I dreamed of running a fucking chemical company? No. I dreamed of retiring. Of being fed tropical fruit on a beach by a model while she blows me. And as soon as I squeeze all the profit out of this place, that's exactly what I'm gonna do. So here's the deal. You either fire the fatty or the cripple, or I fire both of 33 INT. PELLIT CHEMICAL CO. - MOMENTS LATER 33 Kurt sighs as he looks from Margie to Hank and back. At last, he gathers his resolve and crosses to Hank's desk. From a RESPECTFUL DISTANCE we watch as Kurt breaks the news to Hank who reacts with sad resignation. Kurt turns to see Pellit standing directly beside him.
PELLIT: ( loudly, to the room ) Everyone, can I have your attention please? I've just learned that Kurt has fired our dear friend Hank here. I want you to know that I am as surprised and angry about this as you are.
KURT: What are you ?!
PELLIT: This is entirely an accounting department decision. My hands are ( then, to Kurt ) You are one heartless bastard, Pellit heads off. Hank glares at Kurt.
KURT: Look, Hank, this was not my
HANK: Fuck you, Kurt. Hank wheels away, leaving Kurt to face the angry looks of his CO-WORKERS.
DALE: You wanted to see He looks up to find Julia sitting at her desk in nothing but an unbuttoned white lab coat.
DALE: ( AVERTING EYES )
JULIA: Have a seat, Dale.
DALE: Do I have to?
JULIA: He sits, then immediately stands again.
DALE: Look, Julia, this is ridiculous
JULIA: ( holding up hand ) I know what you're going to say and that's exactly what I want to talk to you about.
JULIA: So from now on, I want you to tell me when and if I cross the line.
DALE: Now. Right now.
JULIA: You're naked, Julia!
DALE: You're naked, Julia!
JULIA: I'm not naked. You can't even see my pussy.
DALE: Okay, right there! Just saying `pussy' to me. That's over the That's over the line? You're starting to sound like a little faggot, Dale.
JULIA: That's over the line? You're starting to sound like a little faggot, Dale.
DALE: Again! Naked, `pussy,' `faggot.' All over the line. And probably
ILLEGAL: Okay, let's not start talking about illegal, Mr. Pees-on-Young- It was an empty playground! In the middle of the night!
JULIA: Okay, let's not start talking about illegal, Mr. Pees-on-Young- It was an empty playground! In the middle of the night!
DALE: It was an empty playground! In the middle of the night!
JULIA: Even worse. That little boy must have been terrified.
JULIA: Let's cut to the chase. You're engaged now. And I respect the institution of marriage too much to violate it. That's why you need to fuck me well before the wedding. Because the closer it gets, the less ladylike I'm going to feel about this whole thing.
DALE: I'm not going to sleep with you, We'll see about that. ( then, suddenly
JULIA: We'll see about that. ( then, suddenly
ENRAGED ): OUT! GET OUT! Startled, Dale hurries out of the office.
NICK: I feel like a total sucker. Harken was never planning on promoting me.
KURT: That coked-out douchebag is gonna destroy Pellit Chemicals.
DALE: She stood there with her breasts right in my face. Nick and Kurt turn to Dale.
KURT: You know, yours just doesn't sound that bad.
DALE: Why don't you guys quit? It's not like you're sex offenders.
NICK: It's true. I mean, I'm young. I could go back to school, change In the b.g., a GUY has noticed them. He heads over.
KURT: Yeah. Why should I care about protecting Pellit's name when his own son doesn't? There's a million jobs out there.
DALE: The world is your oyster.
GUY: Well, well, if it isn't the Three Musketeers, Nick, Kurt and Dale. Still hanging out like high school, huh?
NICK: I don't believe it. Kenny Orkin!
DALE: I heard you moved to New York to work at Lehman Brothers or I did. Hired me right out of So what are you doing back here?
KURT: So what are you doing back here?
KENNY: Don't you read the papers? They shut us down. I've been looking for work for the last two years. It's crazy out here. I can't even get a job waiting tables.
NICK: You? Waiting tables? You were voted Most Likely to Succeed. Everyone thought you were set.
KENNY: Everyone including me.
DALE: Easy, Kenny.
KENNY: It's just not fair. I was making high six-figures. Now I can't even afford this drink. ( holds up glass ) Seriously, you think you guys can help me out at all? The three guys exchange uncomfortable looks as they reach for their wallets.
DALE: Uh, sure. Here's a few bucks, Okay, y'know that's not really gonna do it for me. ( looking around,
KENNY: Okay, y'know that's not really gonna do it for me. ( looking around,
KURT: You're gay now?
KENNY: No, I'm not gay. They look skeptical.
KENNY: I'm the opposite of gay! They guys look at each other with eyebrows raised. Nick mouths "opposite."
KENNY: Come on. Handjobs for the Three Musketeers. Let's do this! The BARTENDER spots Kenny and points at him.
BARTENDER: ( YELLING )
KENNY: Whoops. Gotta go, guys. Call me if you change your minds. I'm at my mom's. He hurries out. There's a silent beat as the guys process what they've just witnessed.
KURT: So I guess we're just gonna be miserable for the rest of our What do you mean?
DALE: What do you mean?
KURT: What options do we have? We can quit our jobs and turn into Kenny. Or keep our jobs and turn into sad, ball-less losers who spend their days dreaming of ways to kill their bosses. There's a beat as Nick regards Kurt.
NICK: You do that too?
KURT: Of course. Everyone does. It's the only thing that keeps us from going totally bat-shit.
NICK: The other day I imagined shoving one of those jugs from the water cooler in Harken's mouth and making him drink until his bladder That's so funny. I had the same idea for Pellit.
DALE: That's so funny. I had the same idea for Pellit.
KURT: That's so funny. I had the same idea for Pellit.
DALE: You guys are sick.
KURT: What's sick about it? It's just a way to let off steam.
NICK: Yeah, Dale. It's not like we're actually going to kill our bosses. They continue walking. After a beat.
KURT: You have to admit though, our lives would be a lot better if our bosses were dead.
NICK: Well, of course. It's the one thing that keeps me from being Me too. There's another beat.
DALE: Me too. There's another beat.
KURT: Let's just consider this, for one Consider what?
DALE: Consider what?
KURT: Killing our bosses. I'm just being hypothetical here.
DALE: ( laughing it off ) Yeah, right.
NICK: Very funny.
KURT: Well, it's not like they're gonna live forever. These pieces of shit are going to die someday.
NICK: Shut up, Kurt.
DALE: Yeah, shut up, Kurt.
KURT: ( EARNEST )
DALE: Well, first of all, killing someone is illegal and immoral
KURT: It may be illegal but I'm not sure it's immoral. Sometimes one evil person has to die for the greater good of the community. If Bobby Pellit has his way, hundreds, maybe thousands of innocent Bolivians will suffer. It would actually be immoral not to kill Nick begins to warm to the idea.
NICK: I didn't get to say goodbye to Gam Gam because of Harken.
KURT: Exactly! Who knows how many other Gam Gams have died alone.
DALE: I can't believe you guys are actually talking about this. I don't care how bad our bosses are. We're not murderers.
NICK: No, we're not, Dale. We're just trying to live our lives. But what are we supposed to do when someone makes it impossible for us to live our lives? Do we just bend over and take it up the ass No, we do not!
KURT: No, we do not!
DALE: What you guys are talking about is wrong and you know it.
NICK: Julia's ruining your life. That's She's not ruining my life. If anything's ruining my life it's you guys and your drunk bullshit.
KURT: She's not ruining my life. If anything's ruining my life it's you guys and your drunk bullshit.
DALE: She's not ruining my life. If anything's ruining my life it's you guys and your drunk bullshit.
KURT: If it's bullshit, Dale, then how come we all want to do it so much? They reach the corner where they part ways.
DALE: I don't want to do it. And when you sober up neither will you. We're not killing anyone. Dale heads off.
KURT: ( TO NICK )
NICK: ( QUICKLY )
DALE: ( WEARILY )
DALE: Not in the mood for what?
STACY: Not in the mood for what?
DALE: For. nothing. What are you doing here? Julia appears in her office doorway.
JULIA: I invited her.
STACY: She called and said now that we're engaged, she wanted to offer me free dental work. And you know I've had that loose filling for a while. It's so sweet of you, It's my pleasure. You're part of the family now.
JULIA: It's my pleasure. You're part of the family now.
DALE: ( VISIBLY UPTIGHT )
STACY: Why not?
DALE: We don't want to take advantage of Dale, there's nothing you could do that would be taking advantage of me. Nothing. ( then, to Stacy ) Now what do you say we pump you full of gas?
JULIA: Dale, there's nothing you could do that would be taking advantage of me. Nothing. ( then, to Stacy ) Now what do you say we pump you full of gas?
DALE: Wait no gas. She doesn't need to be out.
STACY: What are you talking about, Dale? You know I'm not good with drills.
JULIA: ( POINTEDLY )
STACY: ( LOSING CONSCIOUSNESS )
( LOSING: CONSCIOUSNESS )
CONSCIOUSNESS ): Ten, nine. eight. seh. And she's out. Immediately, Julia pounces on Dale, feverishly trying to unbuckle his belt.
DALE: Hey! Stop it, what are you ?
JULIA: You're gonna give me that dong, Stacy groans softly. Dale pushes Julia away.
DALE: Stacy groans softly. Dale pushes Julia away.
NO!: Stacy groans softly. Dale pushes Julia away.
DALE: I knew you only brought her in here to mess with me.
JULIA: Let's have sex on top of her. Let's use her like a bed!
DALE: All right, that's it, Julia. This is over. You're out of your mind. I quit! He goes to turn off the gas but before he can
JULIA: I'll tell her you fucked me!
DALE: If you don't fuck me, I'll tell her you fucked me.
JULIA: If you don't fuck me, I'll tell her you fucked me.
DALE: Tell her whatever you want. She'd never believe you. Julia opens a nearby drawer and tosses an envelope onto Stacy's chest.
JULIA: She already knows you're a sex offender. And once she sees these, I think she'll believe me.
DALE: What is that?
JULIA: You remember your first week here when I replaced the crown on your second bicuspid?
DALE: ( NERVOUSLY )
JULIA: I took a few snapshots of the procedure. For my files. Dale lunges at the envelope and pulls out the photos.
DALE: ( SHOCKED )
JULIA: How did you make it look like I was awake?
DALE: How did you make it look like I was awake?
JULIA: Taped your eyes open.
DALE: This is rape! You raped me!
JULIA: Don't get all dramatic. Your dick wasn't hard. But it will be next time. Or else Stacy here gets a look at my photo album. She holds up the packet of photos.
JULIA: ( SUDDENLY PROFESSIONAL )
( SUDDENLY: PROFESSIONAL )
PROFESSIONAL ): Now, let's repair this patient's filling, shall we? Dale gapes at her, dumbstruck.
DALE: Let's kill the bitch.
KURT: What bitch?
NICK: What bitch?
DALE: My boss. Our bosses. They need to die. Nick and Kurt exchange a look.
NICK: We were drunk last night, man. And didn't you say killing was That was before Julia tried to fuck me on top of my fiancée's unconscious body.
DALE: That was before Julia tried to fuck me on top of my fiancée's unconscious body.
KURT: I say we kill them all. Are you guys in or out?
DALE: I say we kill them all. Are you guys in or out?
KURT: I was in last night.
DALE: Yes! Nick? They both turn to Nick who is uncertain. Kurt spots the photo of Nick with his GRANDMOTHER and grabs it off the Look at her. Look at Bubby.
KURT: Look at her. Look at Bubby.
NICK: Gam Gam.
KURT: Look at Gam Gam. Getting a smooch from her favorite grandson. Little does she know that she'll never get to say goodbye to him. And why? Because his shithead boss wouldn't let him leave. What would Gam Gam want you to do?
NICK: Probably not kill him.
KURT: This isn't about Gam Gam. This is about you. What do you want, I want him to die.
NICK: I want him to die.
KURT: Damn straight!
NICK: Okay, I'm in.
KURT: All right! Let's do this.
DALE: I was thinking about that on my way over. Stacy and I watch a lot of `Law & Order' and there's a ton of ways criminals mess up. Things we'd never think of. They leave behind clothing fibers, bullet casings, hair, skin cells
KURT: Skin cells?! I can't even keep track of my keys!
DALE: Exactly. And that's why we need a What are you talking about, a Dale nods.
NICK: What are you talking about, a Dale nods.
KURT: You know, that's not bad. I mean, we don't clean our own apartments, right? We hire someone to clean them for us.
DALE: Maybe you do, moneybags.
NICK: But where are we supposed to find a hitman?
DALE: That's the only problem. I have no idea. There's a beat. Kurt's eyes light up.
KURT: I do. Meet at my place tomorrow after work. And make sure you're not followed.
NICK: Why would anyone follow us?
KURT: I don't know. People get What people?
DALE: What people?
KURT: Just meet me at my place.
KURT: Come in. The guy should be here pretty soon.
NICK: Wait. You actually found It was as easy as buying a used He points to his computer. On the screen is a listing
KURT: It was as easy as buying a used He points to his computer. On the screen is a listing
FROM: Craigslist?! You found a hitman on Craigslist.
DALE: Craigslist?! You found a hitman on Craigslist.
KURT: Yup. But they don't post it as `hitman.' That would be stupid. They use code words, like `liquidation,' `pest control,' `wet work.' Check it out. This is our guy. Nick reads the listing.
NICK: `Skilled professional with years of experience in domestic and international wet work. Fast and discreet. No children or political figures.'
KURT: See? He's principled.
DALE: This is so dangerous. What if he's a narc?
NICK: Yeah, Kurt. Call him back and It's too late. He's on his way.
KURT: It's too late. He's on his way.
DALE: What do we do if this guy gets here and he asks for so much money that we can't afford him and he gets mad and kills all of us?
KURT: I don't think he'd stay in business long if he killed everyone who couldn't afford him.
NICK: ( looking out window ) Guys! I think this is him! The others hurry to look. From
NICK: Nice car.
KURT: Whoa. This guy's legit.
DALE: I bet that briefcase has one of those guns you have to screw All right, let's just be professional here. We don't want to seem all giddy. A knock at the door.
NICK: All right, let's just be professional here. We don't want to seem all giddy. A knock at the door.
KURT: ( HUSHED )
NICK: ( SOTTO ) ( BRITISH ACCENT )
MAN: ( BRITISH ACCENT )
DALE: ( whispering to Nick ) Oh my God, he's like James Bond!
KURT: ( to the Man ) Yes, hi, I'm Kurt. Please come Thank you. Are all three of you participating in this?
MAN: Thank you. Are all three of you participating in this?
NICK: Yes, we are.
MAN: Very well. Now before we go any further, I need to know if there are any hidden recording devices in this room. I will find out if there are.
DALE: No, no! We definitely don't want to record this, sir.
MAN: Then let's get started. He walks to the middle of the living room, opens his briefcase and takes out a plastic tarp which he proceeds to unfurl over the carpet.
KURT: Whoa, whoa. What's that for?
MAN: For the mess.
NICK: We don't want you to kill us!
DALE: ( FREAKING OUT )
MAN: Kill you? What are you talking The guys exchange a confused look.
KURT: Your ad said you do wet work.
MAN: That's correct. I urinate on other men for money.
MAN: Why do you think my ad was in the `men seeking men' section?
NICK: ( TO KURT )
KURT: Yeah! We're men seeking a man, aren't we?
NICK: You are such a moron.
MAN: So you're telling me I drove all the way to the Valley and no one wants to be pissed on?
DALE: Please don't kill us.
MAN: I don't kill people! ( then, sighing ) Can I use your rest room? I've stored up rather a large amount of pee for this.
KURT: ( POINTING )
KURT: Good thing I didn't call the guy who was offering to do `dirty 46 INT. KURT'S CAR - THAT NIGHT 46 Kurt drives. Nick is in the passenger seat. Dale in All right, I'll take the blame for that one.
KURT: All right, I'll take the blame for that one.
NICK: That's big of you.
KURT: I'm going to make it up to you. I figured out a much better way to find a contract killer.
DALE: What's that? Kurt reaches up and pushes a button on the rear-view mirror. A male voice comes over the speaker.
DALE: Oh, come on!
NICK: ( TO KURT )
KURT: Gregory, I need you to direct me to the most dangerous bar in Los ON STAR REP ( V.O. ) I'm sorry?
KURT: We need to find the bar with the most scumbags, lowlifes and hardcore shitheads. Can you help us out?
LOCATION: Okay, Gregory? That's unhelpful. While I'm sure there are plenty of shitheads there, they're not the kind of shitheads we need.
KURT: Okay, Gregory? That's unhelpful. While I'm sure there are plenty of shitheads there, they're not the kind of shitheads we need.
KURT: Now we're talking.
NICK: So, do you like living in GREGORY ( ON STAR REP )( V.O. ) It's not bad. Humid.
DALE: Now, `Gregory.' Is that your real GREGORY ( V.O. ) No, sir. My real name is Atmanand? How did you get Gregory from that?
KURT: Atmanand? How did you get Gregory from that?
NICK: Why don't they let you use your real name?
KURT: Actually, I do find Atmanand a little off-putting.
KURT: This must be the place.
DALE: Aren't you worried about your car?
KURT: Nah, Gregory's watching it.
NICK: You really think we're gonna find a hitman in there?
KURT: I think we're gonna have a hard time deciding between all the hitmen in there. Trust me, these are the lowest of the low.
NICK: Oh, real nice, Kurt. Way to be This isn't a race thing. We need a criminal and this neighborhood is where they live. I'm not saying that's because there are a lot of black people here. That's the fault of our society that discriminates and disenfranchises You said they were the lowest of the low.
KURT: This isn't a race thing. We need a criminal and this neighborhood is where they live. I'm not saying that's because there are a lot of black people here. That's the fault of our society that discriminates and disenfranchises You said they were the lowest of the low.
DALE: You said they were the lowest of the low.
KURT: I was speaking socio-economically.
NICK: So what do we do now? Yell out `anyone here kill people for Let me handle this. They each take a seat at the bar where a no-nonsense BARTENDER walks over to them.
KURT: Let me handle this. They each take a seat at the bar where a no-nonsense BARTENDER walks over to them.
BARTENDER: Hey. How you doing? Nice place.
KURT: Hey. How you doing? Nice place.
NICK: An intense-looking GUY on the next stool notices them.
BARTENDER: The fuck did you just say?
KURT: Don't get me wrong. This isn't about race. Our society discriminates and disenfranchises
YOU: ( head in hands ) Oh my God.
DALE: ( head in hands ) Oh my God.
BARTENDER: I'm a small business owner. Who are you calling disenfranchised?
KURT: I didn't mean you in particular.
BARTENDER: Right. You mean all black people.
NICK: Maybe we should go?
BARTENDER: You could do that. Or I could take the aluminum baseball bat I'm holding in my right hand and disenfranchise your teeth from your mouth.
DALE: I vote we go. The three stand and head for the door.
KURT: Okay, we're going. I'm sorry if I offended you. It was never my
BARTENDER: Oh shit, please shut up.
KURT: Okey doke.
DALE: This is ridiculous. We're never gonna find someone to do this for COCKSUCKER JONES ( O.S. ) They turn to see COCKSUCKER JONES, 30s, the guy who was sitting next to them at the bar.
COCKSUCKER JONES: I think I can help you boys. He gestures for them to follow him into the alley beside the bar. Kurt and Nick move to follow.
DALE: Oh, we're just gonna follow him into that alley?. All right.
COCKSUCKER JONES: I heard you're looking for someone to take care of some business for Yes, we are. Are you a. ( putting out his
NICK: Yes, we are. Are you a. ( putting out his
COCKSUCKER JONES: ( putting out his
HAND ): Cocksucker Jones.
NICK: ( unsure whether to take his hand ) Excuse me?
COCKSUCKER JONES: That's my name.
DALE: Your first name is Cocksucker?
COCKSUCKER JONES: And my last name's Jones. You got a problem with that?
DALE: No, no. It's just interesting. That's the name on your birth Naw, man. It's a nickname. My real name is Dean.
COCKSUCKER JONES: Naw, man. It's a nickname. My real name is Dean.
DALE: Oh! Like Dean Jones. The actor from Herbie the Love Bug.
KURT: ( quietly to Dale ) I don't think he knows who Dean Jones is.
COCKSUCKER JONES: I know who Dean Jones is, bitch! I can't walk around here with that kind of faggy, cracker name.
NICK: So you chose `cocksucker'?
COCKSUCKER JONES: That's right. Nobody fucks with a cocksucker. `Cocksucker' is the toughest name there is.
DALE: Not `motherfucker'?
COCKSUCKER JONES: I considered Motherfucker. But in the end, I thought Cocksucker Jones sounded more badass than Motherfucker Jones.
KURT: I agree.
NICK: Okay, here's the thing: we each work for a boss that we need to get rid of. Is that something you might be able to help us with?
COCKSUCKER JONES: It is. Assuming you've got the We've got cheese. How much cheese are we talking?
KURT: We've got cheese. How much cheese are we talking?
COCKSUCKER JONES: For three hits? That's gonna run you thirty large.
NICK: That's a lot of cheese.
KURT: We don't have that much cheese.
DALE: Isn't there any kind of discount because we're buying three at once? Like buy two, get one free.
COCKSUCKER JONES: This ain't the motherfucking Cold Stone Creamery. It's thirty large or nothing.
NICK: There's no way we can pay that.
COCKSUCKER JONES: Five large.
DALE: ( TO NICK )
NICK: That's a lot more reasonable. And that would be for all three, Great. We're in.
COCKSUCKER JONES: Great. We're in.
KURT: Great. We're in.
COCKSUCKER JONES: Okay, meet me back here tomorrow night with the cash. I'll take care of the rest.
NICK: Should we bring the bills in any kind of special denominations?
COCKSUCKER JONES: No, just, whatever. Small bills.
NICK: Got it.
KURT: And do you want it in any particular container, like a Or a paper bag?
NICK: Or a paper bag?
DALE: Or plastic. I read an article that plastic is actually better for the environment than paper.
COCKSUCKER JONES: Fuck the environment! Just put that shit in a briefcase.
NICK: Got it. Thanks. Come on, guys. They turn to go, when Dale turns back.
DALE: Should we deduct the cost of the I mean, assuming we don't get the case back. We're not getting the case back, right? Cocksucker glares at him.
COCKSUCKER JONES: I mean, assuming we don't get the case back. We're not getting the case back, right? Cocksucker glares at him.
DALE: I mean, assuming we don't get the case back. We're not getting the case back, right? Cocksucker glares at him.
DALE: Well, that's like an extra eighty bucks. Only seems fair that we should take that out of your end.
NICK: We'll cover the briefcase, Dale.
DALE: Then let's get a cheap one. It doesn't have to be real leather. ( then to Cocksucker ) Are you cool with faux ? Kurt grabs Dale by the shoulder and hustles him to the 53 SERIES OF SHOTS 53 MUSIC CUE: Frank Sinatra's "( Forget Your Troubles, Come On ) Get Happy" Dale, Kurt and Nick each take a turn at an ATM machine, withdrawing the maximum amount they can. Nick at his desk at work. He looks over his cubicle wall and his eyes narrow as he sees Harken directing a WORKMAN who stencils the words "Senior Vice President of Sales" below where it already says "President." Another WORKMAN uses a sledgehammer on the wall of the office. Nick grins malevolently. Kurt is at his desk in the chemical company. He looks up to see Bobby Pellit open his office door and lead out two obvious HOOKERS. Pellit has white powder around his nostrils. He spots Kurt watching him and he sneers back. Kurt smiles devilishly.
COCKSUCKER JONES: Looks like it's all here.
DALE: Turns out we didn't really need the briefcase after all. Could've just used a manila envelope.
KURT: Shut up, Dale.
NICK: So, Cocksucker, how long do you think it'll be before you've. taken care of business?
COCKSUCKER JONES: Here's the thing. I just got out of doing a dime for some pretty ugly shit and I'm still on probation. They're watching me. So if I step out of line, I go right back inside.
KURT: You told us you could take care of And I'm gonna. I'm gonna be your professional advisor. Think of me as your murder consultant.
COCKSUCKER JONES: And I'm gonna. I'm gonna be your professional advisor. Think of me as your murder consultant.
NICK: We don't want a murder consultant. We want a murderer.
DALE: I knew we were getting ripped off!
KURT: Okay, look. This isn't what we talked about.
COCKSUCKER JONES: Sorry, no refunds.
NICK: That's five thousand dollars. You think we're just gonna walk away and let you keep that?
COCKSUCKER JONES: ( getting in his face ) I think you're forgetting who you're talking to. Cocksucker pulls back the lower edge of his jacket to reveal what appears to be the holster of a gun.
DALE: Whoa, whoa! We don't want any Now either I give you the advice you paid for, or you can walk away with nothing. Up to you.
COCKSUCKER JONES: Now either I give you the advice you paid for, or you can walk away with nothing. Up to you.
KURT: Look, the whole reason we came to you is because we don't have the experience to do it ourselves.
COCKSUCKER JONES: Most killers are first-timers. Look, the key to a good murder is making it look like an accident. Gas leak, brakes failing, suicide, that sort of thing. If you do it right, you won't even have to be there when it goes down.
NICK: That makes sense. But how would we fake three accidents?
COCKSUCKER JONES: You need to stalk your prey, track their movements, get to know them inside and out. Where do they go? What do they eat for breakfast? Who're they fucking?
DALE: You're talking about surveillance and recon.
COCKSUCKER JONES: But making it look like an accident won't be enough if the pigs can pin a motive on you.
NICK: Well, we all have obvious motives for killing our bosses.
COCKSUCKER JONES: So why don't you kill each other's Hey, that's a good idea. Like Hitchcock's Strangers on a Train.
DALE: Hey, that's a good idea. Like Hitchcock's Strangers on a Train.
KURT: The Danny DeVito movie?
DALE: Yes, the famous Alfred Hitchcock/Danny DeVito movie. You're thinking of Throw Mama from the Train. But it's actually the same idea. If we kill each other's bosses there's no link to That's pretty good.
NICK: That's pretty good.
COCKSUCKER JONES: That's what you're paying me for. Now ain't that worth five grand? The guys all AD LIB "no's."
COCKSUCKER JONES: Yeah, well, too fucking bad.
KURT: We're outside. You ready for a little recon?
NICK: Yeah. I just need to get Harken to let me leave early.
KURT: What's the difference? He's not going to be your boss much longer.
NICK: ( WHISPERING )
HARKEN: What in God's name.?!
NICK: ( WEAKLY )
HARKEN: No. Go home. I don't want you getting everyone else sick.
NICK: Oh, okay. Thank you, Mr. Harken. Nick grabs his jacket and moves to go.
HARKEN: Wait. Take your work with you. Have it on my desk at six AM. Nick barely conceals his contempt as he picks up the stack of papers and heads out.
HARKEN: ( MUTTERING )
KURT: Okay, boys, as soon as Pellit makes a move, we tail him. It is on now.
NICK: Oh, it's on.
DALE: Hells yeah! They watch the house with steely determination.
KURT: Ugghhhhh, I can't believe how much this sucks.
DALE: I don't get it. On TV, surveillance always looks so great. They've got their cups of coffee. Their sunflower seeds. They talk about their lives.
NICK: Are we even sure he's home? They exchange looks.
KURT: ( opening his door ) Let's go check it out. They get out of the car. Dale pockets his sandwich.
NICK: I don't see him. Kurt is about to try a window when Dale stops him.
DALE: What are you doing?
KURT: We're not gonna get intel standing on his lawn. We have to go in.
DALE: What about fingerprints? We don't have gloves.
KURT: Here, do this. Kurt pulls his shirt sleeves down over his hands. Dale does the same. Nick, who wears a T-shirt, tucks his hands inside the bottom of the shirt. With some difficulty, Kurt slides open the window.
KURT: Here we go. The three of them manage to wriggle through the window. It's not graceful: Dale's foot gets caught on the sill, causing him to tumble on top of Nick and Kurt. At last, all three are inside.
KURT: Dale, keep an eye out. Let us know if Pellit's coming.
DALE: Got it. Wait, I don't know what he looks like.
NICK: It doesn't matter. Just tell us if anyone comes.
DALE: Got it. They take in Pellit's living room. There's a leather sofa, a 60-inch plasma and enormous speakers. On the wall are framed Ed Hardy posters depicting dragons and half-naked girls.
KURT: Wow. This guy's a bigger douchebag than me.
NICK: Okay, let's split up. Look for any intel we can use on him.
KURT: What kind of intel?
NICK: I don't know. I guess we'll know it when we see it. Kurt heads upstairs while Dale and Nick look around the living room.
DALE: Hey, Nick? Does this count as Nick looks over to see Dale holding in his sleeve-covered hands an open wooden box filled with white powder.
NICK: Holy shit, that's a lot of blow.
DALE: God, this must be worth, like, ten thousand oh shit!
NICK: What the fuck?!!
DALE: Sorry, my sleeves were slippery!
NICK: We've got to get that back in the I've got it. He kneels and begins trying to scoop up the coke in his hands. It's an impossible task.
DALE: I've got it. He kneels and begins trying to scoop up the coke in his hands. It's an impossible task.
NICK: Look out. Let me try this. Struggling with his hands in his T-shirt, Nick vacuums up the cocaine from the rug. When he's finished, he pops open the vacuum's waste receptacle and dumps the contents back in the wooden box.
DALE: I guess we should've emptied the Dustbuster before we used it.
NICK: You think?
DALE: Hey look, there's a piece of cereal in here. Can't tell if that's a corn flake or a frosted Kurt comes down the stairs.
KURT: Okay, my work upstairs is done. You guys ready to split?
NICK: We need to be better prepared. That was totally dangerous and a complete waste of time.
KURT: Not a complete waste. He pulls a BlackBerry out of his pocket.
NICK: Oh no. don't tell me.
DALE: You stole that from Pellit's It's got his calendar and his contacts. This is what recon's all about.
KURT: It's got his calendar and his contacts. This is what recon's all about.
DALE: ( GLUM )
KURT: Shall we pay a little visit to your boss, Nick?
NICK: I guess so. But let's make a stop 70 EXT. RITE-AID PHARMACY - MINUTES LATER 70 Nick emerges from the store with a plastic bag and gets into Kurt's car.
DALE: What did you need to get? Nick holds up a box of latex gloves.
NICK: No more sleeve gloves.
DALE: Oh man, you should've asked me. I've got a whole box of those in my bedside table. ( off their grossed-
KURT: Oh man, you should've asked me. I've got a whole box of those in my bedside table. ( off their grossed-
NICK: Take a right up here. Harken's place is about a mile away. They drive for a beat. Then
DALE: Y'know. this is kinda, I don't know. exciting.
KURT: ( a little smile ) I guess we're really doing this now, huh?
NICK: ( a little smile ) I guess we're really doing this now, huh?
DALE: ( GRINNING )
DALE: Can I have a pair?
NICK: You know, last time with the three of us, it got a little. messy. What if Kurt and I go in and you stay here and watch out for Okay again, I don't know what he looks like.
DALE: Okay again, I don't know what he looks like.
NICK: If anyone approaches the house, assume it's him and give us a Fine. I'll honk the horn six Maybe something a little more Honk the horn four times?
DALE: Fine. I'll honk the horn six Maybe something a little more Honk the horn four times?
KURT: Maybe something a little more Honk the horn four times?
DALE: Honk the horn four times?
NICK: How about you just honk once?
DALE: People honk once all the time. You'll be running in and out of the house.
KURT: Fine. Honk twice.
DALE: ( SKEPTICAL )
NICK: ( WHISPERING )
KURT: Damn. Guess we'll have to break in the old-fashioned way. Kurt looks around and spots a small rock beside the porch. He picks it up and winds back to throw it at the Kurt, wait! But it's too late. Kurt has released the rock. It HITS the window, but instead of breaking the glass, the rock itself BREAKS into two pieces.
NICK: Kurt, wait! But it's too late. Kurt has released the rock. It HITS the window, but instead of breaking the glass, the rock itself BREAKS into two pieces.
KURT: Holy shit. I broke the rock.
NICK: No, it's one of those hide-a-key things. Look.
NICK: Wow. This is not how I pictured his place.
KURT: For all we know, he's got a closet full of skin suits. A CAT springs out of nowhere, startling them, then runs Stupid cat.
NICK: Stupid cat.
KURT: Stupid cat.
DALE: ( singing a la Cher,
TUNE ): `Do you believe in love after love/I can feel something inside me say/I really don't think you're strong enough now.'
KURT: God damn it! How many cats do they have?
NICK: I think that was the same one.
KURT: Little bastard. Kurt notices a framed wedding photo on the dresser of Harken and Mrs. Harken.
KURT: Damn. That's Mrs. Harken? I'd like to cover her in cock yogurt.
NICK: You want to cover every woman in. did you say `cock yogurt'?
KURT: I did. Yet again, Kurt and Nick jump as the cat LEAPS out of hiding with a YOWL then runs off.
KURT: If he's so scared of us, why doesn't he just leave us alone?!
NICK: If he's so scared of us, why doesn't he just leave us alone?!
DALE: C'mon, c'mon. yes! A breeze blows through the open windows of the car, catching the plastic bag from Dale's sandwich and carrying it out the window.
HARKEN: Hey, schmuck. Dale, surprised, turns to the window.
DALE: Excuse me?
HARKEN: You want to tell me why you're littering on my street?
DALE: Oh, I'm sorry, that blew out the window. I wasn't littering.
HARKEN: I don't care if it blew out of your twat. Now, get your fucking Chevy Cavalier the hell off my Whoa. Sir, there's no need to be Hostile? You want to see hostile? How about I go in the house and get my Suddenly, Harken begins to choke and his face grows increasingly red.
DALE: Whoa. Sir, there's no need to be Hostile? You want to see hostile? How about I go in the house and get my Suddenly, Harken begins to choke and his face grows increasingly red.
HARKEN: Hostile? You want to see hostile? How about I go in the house and get my Suddenly, Harken begins to choke and his face grows increasingly red.
DALE: Get your what? With one hand Harken grabs his throat and with the other he looks at the plastic bag he's holding.
HARKEN: ( STRAINED )
DALE: Huh? Oh, yeah. It was a peanut butter sandwich. Harken collapses to his knees. His face is turning blue now. Dale quickly steps out of the car.
DALE: Oh god! What should I do?! Tell me what to do!
DALE: What do I do with this? Should I inject you?! Harken nods urgently as his eyes begin to roll back.
DALE: Okay, hold on! I got this. Dale takes the cap off the epi-pen, raises his arm and jams the needle into Harken's chest. Harken lets out a Did I do it? Did I get enough in?! I'm gonna do it again! Dale raises his arm again.
DALE: Did I do it? Did I get enough in?! I'm gonna do it again! Dale raises his arm again.
NICK: Do you see a Day Runner or an address book?
KURT: ( glances out the
NO: ( glances out the
WINDOW ): What the.? Dude, check this Nick joins him at the window and they both react as they see what appears to be Dale repeatedly STABBING Harken in the chest, neck and arms. Harken lies motionless on the That's Harken! Dale's killing Holy shit! He's really doing it!
NICK: ( EXCITED )
KURT: Holy shit! He's really doing it!
NICK: What the hell is he thinking?!
KURT: He's not stopping. He's gonna get us all caught. We've gotta get out of here.
NICK: What about Dale?
KURT: He's a psychopath. We leave him Right. Let's go through the back! As they hurry to leave the room, Kurt stumbles over the CAT which has appeared yet again. Unseen by either of them, PELLIT'S BLACKBERRY SLIPS out of his pocket and lands on the floor at the foot of Harken's bed.
NICK: Right. Let's go through the back! As they hurry to leave the room, Kurt stumbles over the CAT which has appeared yet again. Unseen by either of them, PELLIT'S BLACKBERRY SLIPS out of his pocket and lands on the floor at the foot of Harken's bed.
MRS. HARKEN: Oh my god! What happened?!
DALE: He had an allergic reaction. But I think he's coming around. Do you know him?
MRS. HARKEN: He's my husband. Mrs. Harken kneels beside Harken and supports his head.
MRS. HARKEN: Honey? Can you hear me? Harken groggily looks down at his torso which is perforated by dozens of tiny needle marks.
HARKEN: ( groggy, to Dale ) Wha What did you do to me?
DALE: I injected you with your thing.
MRS. HARKEN: He saved your life, honey.
DALE: Oh, it was nothing.
HARKEN: ( to Mrs. Harken ) What's this? What's with the MRS. HARKEN I'm just thankful that he was I'll bet you are. Do you know this guy?
MRS. HARKEN: I'm just thankful that he was I'll bet you are. Do you know this guy?
HARKEN: I'll bet you are. Do you know this guy?
MRS. HARKEN: No. We just
HARKEN: Are you fucking him, Rhonda?
MRS. HARKEN: Oh, come on.
HARKEN: ( TO DALE )
DALE: ( FLUSTERED )
HARKEN: You need to get the hell out of MRS. HARKEN Dave, stop it. You should be thanking him. Why are you being so suspicious?
MRS. HARKEN: Dave, stop it. You should be thanking him. Why are you being so suspicious?
HARKEN: Why? Because I know you sleep around on me. And I'm going to find out who it is.
MRS. HARKEN: You're being ridiculous.
HARKEN: Am I? What about Maurilio? I see the way you look at him.
MRS. HARKEN: I am not having sex with the As Harken and his wife continue to bicker, Dale quietly retreats to Kurt's car.
NICK: I can't believe that idiot Dale. You realize we're all going to jail because of him.
KURT: I can't go to jail. Look at these eyes. Look at this ass. They'll be all over me.
NICK: Yeah, me too.
KURT: ( NOT CONVINCED )
NICK: What do you mean `well'? I'd get raped just as much as you.
KURT: ( PATRONIZING )
NICK: You think you're more rape-able than I am.
KURT: I never said that Dale enters.
DALE: Oh good. You guys are here. Did you see me out there?
KURT: Yeah, Dale, we saw you.
DALE: Pretty neat, huh?
NICK: No, it wasn't neat! You stabbed Harken to death in front of the whole neighborhood!
KURT: Not cool, man.
DALE: Wait, that was Harken?
NICK: Who'd you think you were stabbing?
DALE: I wasn't stabbing anybody. That was an epi-pen. He was having an allergic reaction to peanuts and I injected him. Kurt and Nick digest this for a beat.
NICK: So let me understand this. My boss, who we are trying to kill, was dying in front of you and you saved his life?
KURT: Not cool, man.
DALE: Wait, you were just mad at me for killing him and now you're mad at me for not killing him?!
NICK: Hang on a sec. Maybe this recon wasn't a waste of time. Now we know Harken's deathly allergic to peanuts and Pellit has a huge stash of cocaine.
KURT: ( GETTING IT )
NICK: Everyone would assume that Pellit just got a batch of tainted drugs.
DALE: But Harken must always have that epi-pen on him. They consider this for a beat.
KURT: I bet he doesn't wear it in the shower. We could put peanuts in his shampoo!
NICK: Perfect! Two fatal accidents. And we're not even there when they That just leaves Julia.
DALE: That just leaves Julia.
KURT: Tomorrow night, I'll surveil her and figure out how to take her Good. I'll get some rat poison and take care of Pellit. Dale, think you can get some peanuts into Harken's shampoo?
NICK: Good. I'll get some rat poison and take care of Pellit. Dale, think you can get some peanuts into Harken's shampoo?
DALE: I can do that.
KURT: All right. That just leaves us with one final thing to settle.
NICK: What's that?
KURT: Dale, if Nick and I were in prison, which one of us would get raped more? OFF Dale's confusion and Nick's annoyance
NICK: ( ON PHONE )
KURT: Well, I've learned that Dale is a homosexual because this chick is unbelievably hot. How's it going over there?
NICK: I'm just waiting for Pellit to go to sleep. I wonder how Dale's doing with Harken.
NICK: Jesus, where does he get the Oh yeah.
NICK: What's up, Dale?
DALE: Harken just left his house. I'm going in.
NICK: Good luck, man.
DALE: 91 INT. HARKEN'S BATHROOM - MINUTES LATER 91
DALE: He regains his composure and finds a bottle of men's shampoo. As he nervously removes the cap from the shampoo and the lid from the peanuts, he notices that MR. PEANUT is STARING right at him. Despite his jaunty top hat and little monocle, there is something almost accusing in his look. Dale stares back at Mr. Peanut as we see his resolve soften.
NICK: Okay. Here we go. Nick reaches for the door handle as SFX: Nick's cell phone rings. Nick jumps, then answers the phone.
DALE: ( INTO PHONE ) ( CONTINUED ) 93 CONTINUED: 93
NICK: ( CONTINUED ) 93 CONTINUED: 93
DALE: I'm not sure if I can do this.
NICK: Where are you?
DALE: In Harken's bathroom. About to pour the nuts in his shampoo. But, I just. I know he's a real shithead, but he's still a person, Lights appear in Nick's rearview mirror.
NICK: ( looking down at the rat poison,
RELUCTANTLY ): Yeah. I know. Harken's Porsche pulls up and stops just behind Nick's car. Harken gets out and heads toward Pellit's front What should I do? Should I do it? Suddenly, Nick looks up to see HARKEN knocking on Pellit's door. In the bedroom, Pellit's light goes on.
DALE: What should I do? Should I do it? Suddenly, Nick looks up to see HARKEN knocking on Pellit's door. In the bedroom, Pellit's light goes on.
NICK: ( WHISPERING )
DALE: It's Harken. He's here!
NICK: It's Harken. He's here!
DALE: At Pellit's?! Why?!
NICK: I don't know. He's knocking on his door!
DALE: How would Harken even know Pellit?
NICK: Oh my god oh my god oh my god.
DALE: What? What? What?!
NICK: He shot him. Harken shot Pellit!
DALE: Oh my god. Is he dead?!
NICK: With shaking hands, Nick reaches for his ignition but knocks the car keys out. They fall onto the floor of the As Nick bends down to find his keys, Harken's shadow looms over him. Nick cowers just out of sight.
NICK: ( HUSHED )
DALE: What's happening?
NICK: Harken's gone.
DALE: What about Pellit?
NICK: He's not moving. He looks dead.
DALE: Shit! What do we do?!
NICK: I've got to get out of here before someone sees me! Meet me at the bar. I'll call Kurt. Nick ZOOMS away from the curb.
KURT: Okay, let's all stay calm and figure this out.
NICK: Calm? How can we be calm? I watched a man die an hour ago!
KURT: A man you were going to kill I don't know if I had it in me.
NICK: I don't know if I had it in me.
KURT: I don't know if I had it in me.
NICK: I don't know if I had it in me.
DALE: Me neither.
KURT: I can't believe you guys! You can't just bail on a plan like that at the last minute.
NICK: You think when it came down to it, you would've been able to murder Kurt softens.
KURT: I don't know. I mean, afterwards, it was kind of hard to imagine killing her. Nick and Dale turn to him, quizzically.
DALE: Kurt realizes what he said.
NICK: You slept with her, didn't you?
DALE: ( TO KURT )
NICK: You are a mess.
KURT: I know, I know. But it's not my 100 FLASHBACK - EXT. JULIA'S HOUSE - NIGHT 100 Kurt's car is parked across the street.
NICK: There is something clinically wrong with you.
KURT: I know. I'm a rapscallion.
DALE: You're not a rapscallion. You're a whore. A filthy whore.
KURT: Hey. Not nice. And besides, I think I actually solved your problem, Dale. Julia just needed a good fucking. I bet she's not going to mess with you anymore.
NICK: Whatever. We have bigger fish to fry right now. What do we do about Harken?
KURT: Here's what we do. We call the cops and make an anonymous tip that Harken killed Pellit. Boom. Harken's in jail. Pellit's in hell. Julia's had the crazy fucked out of her. Our problems are solved. Boom.
NICK: Okay, but we should find a payphone. We don't want them tracing the call to us.
NICK: Come on, we'll take my car. The three of them climb into Nick's car.
NICK: What the hell? Nick unrolls his window as one COP approaches his side and his PARTNER comes up on the other.
COP: Are you the owner of this vehicle?
NICK: Uh, yes. Is there something We've got an APB on a black Kia Spectra, license 4HIG208.
COP: We've got an APB on a black Kia Spectra, license 4HIG208.
NICK: Can I ask why?
COP: A traffic cam caught this vehicle fleeing the scene of a crime tonight. I'm going to need you to follow us to the station.
KURT: Officer? This is not my car. Is it okay if I just ?
COP: All three of you, please. Nick glares at Kurt as the cops head back to their car.
DALE: They know everything. We're dead. I can't believe I let you guys talk me into this!
KURT: Oh, please. We were just being hypothetical. You're the one who pushed us to do it.
NICK: We can't even say anything about Harken now.
KURT: Why not?
NICK: Uh, well, Kurt, being outside the murder victim's house because I was planning to murder him probably isn't the best alibi in the world.
KURT: You know, I didn't actually do anything illegal, so.
DALE: You broke into two people's houses and stole a BlackBerry!
KURT: You gonna rat on me, Dale?
DALE: Well, since I'm the only one without a connection to the murder, yeah, maybe I will.
NICK: That means you'd also rat on me.
KURT: Not if I rat on Dale first. Just then, a burly detective, HAGAN, appears behind them.
HAGAN: Gentlemen, this way, please. The guys glare angrily at each other as they follow 108 INT. INTERROGATION ROOM - MINUTES LATER 108 Nick, Dale and Kurt sit on metal chairs across a table from Hagan and his equally burly partner, SAMSON. Hagan slides a PHOTO across the table to Nick.
HAGAN: Do you want to explain why you were driving 61 in a 25 zone, a block from the victim's house two minutes after he was shot to I. was drag racing. ( off their skeptical
NICK: I. was drag racing. ( off their skeptical
LOOK ): I am a drag racer. There's no law against that, is there?
HAGAN: Actually there is.
SAMSON: You were drag racing in a Kia I don't win a lot.
NICK: I don't win a lot.
HAGAN: Here's what I don't understand. You're at the crime scene. An hour later when we find your car, you just happen to be hanging out with this guy. ( gestures to Dale ) . a registered sex offender
KURT: ( RE: DALE )
HAGAN: . and this guy. ( gestures at Kurt and holds up a wallet ) . whose employee ID says he works for Pellit Chemicals, the victim's company.
KURT: ( FEIGNING SHOCK )
DALE: ( WRY )
KURT: I can't believe this.
NICK: Where were you during the murder?
KURT: I was making love.
DALE: ( SNORTS )
KURT: ( to the cops ) Let me ask you something, Detective. Let's say one of us knew who the shooter was and was willing to hand you that perp on a platter. Would he be entitled to some sort of immunity for that Both Dale and Nick shoot daggers at him.
HAGAN: No. But he would be entitled to some sort of jail time. Because if he knew who the shooter was and didn't tell us, that would be obstruction of justice. A beat.
KURT: Well, then I'm glad we have no idea who the shooter is, right, If you expect us to believe this is all just a big coincidence, we're going to be here for a long Okay wait! Now it's Kurt and Nick who look nervous. Is Dale about to crack?
SAMSON: ( LOSING PATIENCE )
DALE: Okay wait! Now it's Kurt and Nick who look nervous. Is Dale about to crack?
DALE: Saying that we'll be here for a long time implies that we can't leave. Does that mean we're under Samson looks to Hagan who grimaces.
HAGAN: No. We just brought you in for So, you don't have evidence constituting probable cause to arrest us?
DALE: So, you don't have evidence constituting probable cause to arrest us?
SAMSON: Not yet.
DALE: Well then, we're free to go?
HAGAN: Dale nervously stands up, half expecting to be hit.
DALE: Come on, guys. Kurt and Nick, impressed and relieved, stand and head 111 INT. POLICE STATION - CONTINUOUS ACTION 111 The three guys head for the exit.
NICK: ( TO DALE )
DALE: We really showed those guys.
KURT: We really showed those guys.
NICK: `We'? You were gonna turn us in!
KURT: For, like, a second.
SAMSON: ( handing it to Nick ) For speeding and running a red Don't get too comfortable out there, boys. Our forensics team is sweeping Pellit's house for fingerprints and DNA. And they don't miss much. We HOLD ON Kurt's face and
KURT: We are so fucked.
NICK: Maybe it's time to lawyer up.
DALE: I don't have money for a lawyer. I gave all my money to Cocksucker Hey, that's right! I forgot all about Cocksucker. Why don't we ask him what to do?
KURT: Hey, that's right! I forgot all about Cocksucker. Why don't we ask him what to do?
NICK: We did pay him five thousand dollars to be our murder Actually, it was five thousand forty with the briefcase. OFF their looks
DALE: Actually, it was five thousand forty with the briefcase. OFF their looks
COCKSUCKER JONES: Oh damn, look who's back. How did it go with the Strangers on a Train shit?
KURT: Not great. We need your help.
NICK: One of our intended victims killed another of our intended victims. Cocksucker's eyes go wide.
COCKSUCKER JONES: Shut the fuck up! What kind of evil geniuses are you?
DALE: We don't even know why it happened. But the cops brought us in as suspects. What do we do First things first. I'm gonna need another five thousand What? No way. You said the last five thousand would cover this!
COCKSUCKER JONES: First things first. I'm gonna need another five thousand What? No way. You said the last five thousand would cover this!
KURT: What? No way. You said the last five thousand would cover this!
COCKSUCKER JONES: Okay, fine. Pay for my drink. As Nick puts down a few bills on the bar, Dale leans in to Kurt.
DALE: ( SOTTO )
COCKSUCKER JONES: Let me ask you this the guy who killed the other guy you were planning on killing, are the police after him too?
NICK: No. They don't suspect him.
COCKSUCKER JONES: All right, so you're gonna need to encourage him to turn himself in, by say, kidnapping his wife and mailing him her earlobe or That's horrible.
DALE: That's horrible.
COCKSUCKER JONES: Naw, the earlobe's vestigial. ( off their looks ) All right, how about you trick him into confessing what he did while you wear a wire?
KURT: A wire. That's good.
NICK: ( TO COCKSUCKER )
COCKSUCKER JONES: What the hell are you talking about? I never murdered anyone. There's a beat.
NICK: COCKSUCKER JONES
COCKSUCKER JONES: Who told you I killed somebody?
KURT: You did. You said you served a `dime' for `some pretty ugly It was ugly.
COCKSUCKER JONES: It was ugly.
DALE: What was it?
COCKSUCKER JONES: ( LEANING IN )
DALE: COCKSUCKER JONES COCKSUCKER JONES
COCKSUCKER JONES: I got caught with a video camera making a bootleg copy of that You did ten years for video Hey, that's a federal offense. They take that shit serious.
NICK: You did ten years for video Hey, that's a federal offense. They take that shit serious.
COCKSUCKER JONES: Hey, that's a federal offense. They take that shit serious.
KURT: Hold on. You're telling me we've been taking murder advice from someone whose biggest crime was taping an Ethan Hawke movie?!
COCKSUCKER JONES: So you do know it.
DALE: If you're not a murderer, why do you carry that gun on your belt?
COCKSUCKER JONES: He pulls back his jacket to reveal the holster we saw This is a motherfucking iPhone. He pulls the phone out and shows them.
COCKSUCKER JONES: This is a motherfucking iPhone. He pulls the phone out and shows them.
NICK: I feel like such a moron.
COCKSUCKER JONES: Well, you are a moron. You don't walk into a bar and hand a guy five thousand dollars just because he's black.
KURT: Come on, guys. Let's get out of The three of them turn to go.
COCKSUCKER JONES: ( calling after them ) Trust me on the wire thing, though. Worked for Donnie Brasco. Bootlegged that movie too.
HAGAN: You got something for us?
CRIME TECH: We didn't find any foreign prints in the house, but we did get a DNA match for one of your suspects, Kurt Gamble.
SAMSON: Where was it?
CRIME TECH: Pellit's upstairs bathroom. His toothbrush. It had traces of Gamble's fecal matter.
HAGAN: That sick bastard.
CRIME TECH: That's not all. We found feces on Pellit's hairbrush, face soap, floss and razor.
SAMSON: CRIME TECH
CRIME TECH: The handle. Not the blade. This Gamble guy put just about everything in that bathroom up his All I care about is that it puts him inside the house. That's enough for a warrant for him and his drag racing, sex offender ( takes out cell ) I'll call the DA.
HAGAN: All I care about is that it puts him inside the house. That's enough for a warrant for him and his drag racing, sex offender ( takes out cell ) I'll call the DA.
KURT: Okay, looks quiet. Is the tape recorder ready? Dale pulls out a mini-tape recorder and hands it to Nick along with a roll of surgical tape.
DALE: Fresh batteries, fresh six-hour tape, voice activated.
NICK: One of us needs to tape it to our I'll do it. I'm the only one without hair on my chest.
KURT: I'll do it. I'm the only one without hair on my chest.
NICK: That's `cause you shave it.
KURT: I don't shave it. I wax it. Nick gives Kurt the recorder and Kurt tapes it to his chest then lowers his shirt.
DALE: So what do we do now? Wait for Harken to come home and ambush I have a better idea. Let's be in the house when he walks in. He'll be so mad, he'll be more likely to Right. We'll sit there in the dark till he comes in, and then switch on a lamp. That'll freak him out.
NICK: I have a better idea. Let's be in the house when he walks in. He'll be so mad, he'll be more likely to Right. We'll sit there in the dark till he comes in, and then switch on a lamp. That'll freak him out.
KURT: Right. We'll sit there in the dark till he comes in, and then switch on a lamp. That'll freak him out.
DALE: Hey, we should find an office chair so one of us can dramatically spin around and face I'll be in the chair.
NICK: I'll be in the chair.
KURT: Why do you get to be the guy in the chair?
NICK: He's my boss.
DALE: We could try and find more than one office chair so the three of us can spin around at the same That doesn't sound intimidating. That sounds like a musical number.
KURT: That doesn't sound intimidating. That sounds like a musical number.
DALE: I guess you're right. I'll turn on the lamp.
KURT: So I'm just supposed to stand there like an idiot?
NICK: You're recording it all. You're the most important member of the Don't patronize me, Nick.
KURT: Don't patronize me, Nick.
PARTYGOERS: There are 20 or 30 PARTYGOERS in the house which is decorated for a birthday party. The guys stand dumbstruck. The revelry peters out as the guests realize there are three strangers at the door. Mrs. Harken steps MRS. HARKEN Who are you?
MRS. HARKEN: Who are you?
NICK: Uh. hi. sorry we're late. I'm Nick. I work with your husband
AND: MRS. HARKEN Aren't you the young man who helped Dave on the street the other day?
MRS. HARKEN: ( NOTICING DALE )
DALE: Uh, yes. How's he doing?
MRS. HARKEN: He's fine. Thanks to you. ( then, to Nick ) Did I invite you to this? Before Nick can answer a GUEST at the window calls out.
GUEST #1: His car just turned the corner!
GUEST #2: Someone get the lights! As everyone scurries to hide, Kurt finds himself pressed up against Mrs. Harken, beside the sofa. He checks her ( shaking her hand ) Hi, we didn't formally meet. I'm MRS. HARKEN Nick didn't tell me that his boss was married to a model.
KURT: ( shaking her hand ) Hi, we didn't formally meet. I'm MRS. HARKEN Nick didn't tell me that his boss was married to a model.
MRS. HARKEN: ( DISTRACTED )
KURT: Nick didn't tell me that his boss was married to a model.
MRS. HARKEN: ( noticing him now,
FLATTERED ): I'm not a model.
KURT: ( "SINCERE" )
PARTYGOERS: A jittery Harken nearly jumps out of his skin as the crowd starts singing "Happy Birthday." Mrs. Harken takes Harken's arm.
MRS. HARKEN: Were you surprised?
HARKEN: ( RELIEVED )
MRS. HARKEN: Look, everyone's here.
HARKEN: ( EVILLY )
MRS. HARKEN: Who are you talking about?
HARKEN: I think you know.
NICK: He's going off alone. This is our You guys ready?
DALE: You guys ready?
KURT: ( still staring at Mrs. Harken ) So fucking ready.
NICK: Okay, stay close.
KURT: ( NOT LISTENING )
HARKEN: What the hell are you doing here?
NICK: We know what you did, Harken.
HARKEN: What does that mean?
NICK: We were there. We saw you kill So what is this? A shakedown? You think you can blackmail me because you saw me kill my wife's Nick winces. So close.
HARKEN: ( TURNING DEAD SERIOUS )
SERIOUS ): So what is this? A shakedown? You think you can blackmail me because you saw me kill my wife's Nick winces. So close.
DALE: ( BLURTING OUT )
HARKEN: ( CONTINUED ) 123 CONTINUED: 123
DALE: The guy you killed. What was his Trust me, Pellit's name doesn't matter anymore.
HARKEN: Trust me, Pellit's name doesn't matter anymore.
NICK: There it is! ( turning to Dale ) Let's go, guys He freezes as he sees for the first time that Kurt didn't accompany them into the study. It's just him and Dale. Nick looks around, panicked.
HARKEN: Yeah, I killed Pellit
NICK: Hang on. Hold that thought, because I want to get my friend,
KURT: I walked right up to his door and I shot him in his fucking chest, and I'll tell you something: I liked it. So if you think I'm a pussy who won't do the same exact thing to some half-assed blackmailer, guess again.
HARKEN: I walked right up to his door and I shot him in his fucking chest, and I'll tell you something: I liked it. So if you think I'm a pussy who won't do the same exact thing to some half-assed blackmailer, guess again.
NICK: ( looking back at the
HARKEN: You're pathetic, Waters. You come into my home, on my goddam birthday and try and pull this shit? Well, guess what? You're a dead man. You.
DALE: ( SOFTLY )
NICK: What are you doing? What's in My gun. Just give me a second. Nick and Dale exchange a look, then quickly rush out of the room.
HARKEN: My gun. Just give me a second. Nick and Dale exchange a look, then quickly rush out of the room.
NICK: We had him! We had the whole thing. What happened to Kurt? Just then, the door to a guest bathroom opens and Kurt emerges, buckling his belt and looking strangely red in the face.
KURT: Oh, hey.
NICK: `Hey'?! Where were you?!
KURT: Uh, I had to go to the bathroom. Bad salmon puff. Are we ready to record Harken?
NICK: You're too late, Kurt! He confessed the whole damn thing!
DALE: More than once! Then he told us we were dead men! He's getting his gun right now!
KURT: Oh, man, I'm so sorry. I fucked Yeah, you Suddenly, the bathroom door opens again and out steps Mrs. Harken, also looking disheveled. She adjusts her dress then rejoins the party.
NICK: Yeah, you Suddenly, the bathroom door opens again and out steps Mrs. Harken, also looking disheveled. She adjusts her dress then rejoins the party.
NICK: ( realizing what Kurt
KURT: Look, I wasn't thinking. She's so hot and I'm so weak. I'm a weak, weak man. I admit it. From the back seat, we hear from the tape recorder:
DALE: Is there anything you don't wax? Kurt shrugs. We hear some WET, SMACKING SOUNDS.
NICK: Ugh. Turn it off, Dale!
KURT: ( QUICKLY )
KURT: Okay, it's clear that none of us can go home again. Probably ever.
DALE: I'm sure they have cops at all our places. I think our best bet is to get out of the country.
KURT: I'm sure they have cops at all our places. I think our best bet is to get out of the country.
NICK: Where are we going to go?
KURT: Everyone flees to Mexico. That's the first place they'll look.
DALE: Everyone flees to Mexico. That's the first place they'll look.
KURT: You're right. What about Asia? We could become kick boxers.
NICK: What the fuck are you talking What if our entire lives have been leading up to this moment? What if we were destined from the very beginning to become Asian kick What if I was destined to smack you right in the face?
KURT: What if our entire lives have been leading up to this moment? What if we were destined from the very beginning to become Asian kick What if I was destined to smack you right in the face?
NICK: What if I was destined to smack you right in the face?
KURT: That seems like a lesser destiny. SFX: Dale's cell phone rings.
DALE: ( ANSWERING PHONE ) INTERCUT WITH:
JULIA: Hello, lover.
DALE: Oh God. Look, Julia, I can't talk right now Kurt reacts at hearing it's Julia. He makes an "I'm not here" gesture.
JULIA: No worries, baby. I actually meant to call your home phone. You know, to tell Stacy about us.
DALE: No! Wait!
JULIA: I think I've waited long enough. I'm tired of you playing with my I'm not playing. I'm going to do it. I swear!
DALE: I'm not playing. I'm going to do it. I swear!
JULIA: This Friday. At the office.
DALE: Wait. What are you going to do to I'm going to. have sex with you.
JULIA: Wait. What are you going to do to I'm going to. have sex with you.
DALE: I'm going to. have sex with you.
JULIA: Details! And be explicit.
DALE: Right now? You want me to say it?
KURT: Oh, shit. We've got company.
NICK: It's Harken! Lose him!
KURT: Lose him? Sure, Nick. His 500 horsepower is no match for my 150.
JULIA: ( ON PHONE )
DALE: ( BLURTING OUT )
JULIA: Oh, come on, Casanova. You can do better than that.
DALE: ( WITH DIFFICULTY )
NICK: Jesus Christ, this guy's nuts!
JULIA: You going to slap me with your cock, Dale?
DALE: Yes! Yes! I'm going to beat your face with my cock!
JULIA: BANG! Harken again HITS Kurt's car from behind. A tail light shatters.
DALE: ( FRANTIC )
JULIA: See you Friday, you dirty bird. Julia hangs up. Dale looks like he's been violated.
DALE: Nice job `fucking the crazy out of her,' Kurt!
KURT: Maybe I should've spit on her ON STAR REP ( V.O. ) Good evening, Mr. Gamble. The three of them JUMP, startled by the sudden voice in the car with them.
KURT: What the hell?
KURT: Yeah, thanks, Gregory, we know. We're being chased by a crazy man and he just smashed into us! Kurt looks in the rearview mirror and sees Harken is still behind them. As his car reaches an intersection, Kurt swerves at the last second and takes a hard left. Harken overshoots the turn.
NICK: No, wait! Don't call the police! They're already after us.
DALE: They think we murdered someone. Suddenly, Kurt's engine dies and the car comes to a gradual stop.
NICK: Why are you slowing down?!
KURT: I'm not! The engine died!
KURT: Why would you do that, Gregory?!
KURT: I pay nineteen bucks a month for this fucking service!
DALE: I thought you were our friend, There's a sound of screeching tires and Harken's Porsche ZOOMS up behind them.
NICK: He's not stopping!
KURT: Oh, shit!
DALE: Shit, shit, shit. Harken taps on Kurt's window with the barrel of the gun. Kurt lowers the window.
KURT: I'm guessing you don't want to
EXCHANGE INSURANCE: information ?
HARKEN: Out of the car. All of you. The three guys nervously exit the car and face Harken who points the gun at them.
NICK: Look, Mr. Harken
HARKEN: Shut the fuck up! I've got six bullets in here. So if I want to, I can shoot each of you twice, just like I did that bastard, Pellit. But if I do that, I'll have to spend the rest of my life running from the law or rotting in Police sirens approaching.
DALE: ( NEAR TEARS )
HARKEN: No. I have a better idea. Harken turns the gun toward his own thigh and FIRES.
HARKEN: What the ?! As his leg bleeds, Harken wipes the gun off with his shirt, then suddenly tosses it to Dale.
NICK: What the ?! As his leg bleeds, Harken wipes the gun off with his shirt, then suddenly tosses it to Dale.
HARKEN: Startled, Dale catches the pistol with shaking hands.
HARKEN: ( THROUGH GRITTED TEETH )
TEETH ): Now I can tell the cops that when I discovered you three killed Pellit, you tried to kill me to shut me up.
KURT: That's crazy! Down the street, two squad cars turn the corner and speed toward them. Dale looks down at the gun in his hand and drops it.
HARKEN: Is it? Because I don't see a shred of evidence proving that I killed Pellit. It's like I've always told you, Nick. Life is a marathon and you can't win a marathon without putting a few Band-Aids on your nipples. Nick deflates. The three guys realize Harken's won. Then, from the car's open window they hear:
HARKEN: Who said that?
KURT: ( GRINNING )
HARKEN: You can't this isn't And with that, Harken BOLTS AWAY as fast as his injured leg will take him. It's not very fast. The guys watch him for a beat as they share a joyful, exhausted moment I think this is gonna work out okay for us.
NICK: I think this is gonna work out okay for us.
KURT: I told you.
DALE: ( RE: HARKEN )
KURT: I've got this. ( looking to heaven ) This is for you, Gam Gam. Nick sprints off after his hobbling boss and in SLOW MOTION, violently TACKLES Harken to the pavement. Harken goes down hard, his face SLAMMING against the asphalt. As the COPS hurry toward them, Nick kneels on the back of Harken's neck, pinning him.
NICK: I've got this. ( looking to heaven ) This is for you, Gam Gam. Nick sprints off after his hobbling boss and in SLOW MOTION, violently TACKLES Harken to the pavement. Harken goes down hard, his face SLAMMING against the asphalt. As the COPS hurry toward them, Nick kneels on the back of Harken's neck, pinning him.
HARKEN: Get the fuck off me! Kurt steps up and kneels beside the battered figure.
KURT: ( GENTLY )
HARKEN: ( BARKING )
KURT: Your wife gives great head. Harken struggles wildly but he's helpless.
MARGIE: Oh, hey, Kurt. Come in.
KURT: Thanks, Margie. I just wanted to congratulate you on taking over Bobby's job.
MARGIE: Thank you. Terrible what happened to him.
KURT: Yeah. Tough month for the Pellit family. Anyway, if there's anything I can do to help out before the baby gets here, please let me know.
MARGIE: ( CONFUSED )
KURT: Your baby.
MARGIE: ( beat, offended ) I'm not pregnant.
KURT: ( CHUCKLING ) ( CONTINUED ) 137 CONTINUED: 137
MARGIE: I'm aware that I have a weight problem, Kurt. It just happens to manifest itself in my lower I. oh, my God. I'm really sorry, Margie He falls silent under Margie's death stare.
KURT: I. oh, my God. I'm really sorry, Margie He falls silent under Margie's death stare.
MARGIE: ( COLDLY )
KURT: How was I supposed to know you were just fat
MARGIE: Strike two. Kurt opens his mouth to say something but thinks better of it. He stands up and slumps out. Life as he knew it at Pellit Chemicals is clearly over.
JULIA: Thank God it's Friday, right, Let's drill this patient and then you can drill me.
DALE: ( RESIGNED )
JULIA: Let's drill this patient and then you can drill me.
DALE: Could we do it on top of the patient? I like the element of You continue to surprise me, you weird little man. Julia quickly undoes the patient's belt and yanks his pants down.
JULIA: ( IMPRESSED )
JULIA: ( TO DALE )
DALE: Oh, yeah. Julia begins handling the patient's implied genitals which are obscured by a tray of tools.
JULIA: ( in a puppet voice ) `I wish I was Dale's weenie so I could have sex with Julia.' Suddenly, the patient bursts out LAUGHING and sits up.
JULIA: What the hell?! The patient pulls off his nitrous mask to reveal it's KENNY, the guys' former classmate from the bar.
KENNY: ( LAUGHING )
JULIA: What is this?
DALE: Julia, meet my old high school friend, Kenny.
KENNY: How do you do?
DALE: Kenny will do just about anything for fifty bucks and that's why I hired him to help me frame you. Your days of sexually assaulting me and your patients are over.
JULIA: ( LAUGHS DERISIVELY )
DALE: Three losers. Dale points to the window where Julia sees COCKSUCKER JONES outside holding up a video camera. He waves to You little bastard
JULIA: You little bastard
DALE: Shut up, Julia. Now, my fiancee and I are going to take a very expensive two week vacation which you're going to pay for. And then I'm going to come back to a rape- free workplace. Because if you so much as look at my ass, I'll have yours locked up. With a bounce in his step, Dale strides out of the room. There's an awkward beat with Kenny and Julia.
KENNY: I don't suppose you could take a look at this molar
JULIA: ( SCREAMING )
CARTER: You wanted to see me, Mr. Waters?
NICK: Hi, Carter. Just wanted to check if you had a chance to finish those regional sales projections Oh, I think I may need another Okay. I was hoping to give them to the marketing guys today, but I can hold them off.
CARTER: Oh, I think I may need another Okay. I was hoping to give them to the marketing guys today, but I can hold them off.
NICK: Okay. I was hoping to give them to the marketing guys today, but I can hold them off.
CARTER: Sure. No problem, Mr. Waters.
NICK: Thanks, buddy. Nick smiles and closes the door behind Carter. He settles into his comfy chair and puts his feet up on the It's good to be the boss.
NICK: It's good to be the boss.
THE END: Writers : Michael Markowitz
