THE HOSPITAL: Written by Paddy Chayefsky
SHOOTING DRAFT: THE HOSPITAL. DAY. MAY, PANORAMIC VIEW of The Hospital a vast medical complex, a sprawling pastiche of architecture extending ten blocks north and south on First Avenue and east to the river. The Hospital was founded in the late 19th century, and there are still a few begrimed Victorian Bedlams and Bastilles among the buildings. Mostly though, it is Medical Modern 1971, white and chrome and lots of glass and concrete shafts and rotundas. A spanking new Community Mental Health Clinic towers among the tenements at the northern end of the complex. On the far side of First Avenue, a twenty-story apartment house with recessed balconies and picture windows to house the resident staff has just recently been completed, and next to it, eight ghetto buildings are being demolished to make way according to the construction company's sign for a new Drug Rehabilitation Center, to be completed in 1973, we should all live so long. This is where the shattering SOUNDS OF CONSTRUCTION are coming from. A block length of generators and cement and demolition machines are POUNDING, CRASHING, SCREAMING. Traffic HONKS and BRAYS up First Avenue. It is a cold spring morning 10:00 A.M. A 1966 station wagon pulls up to the Holly Pavilion. A tiny, fragile, white-bearded OLD MAN, almost lost in his overcoat, is helped from the rear of a station wagon and slowly led to the entrance doors by a middle-aged nurse.
NARRATOR: On Monday morning, a patient named Guernsey, male, middle-seventies was admitted to the hospital complaining of chest pains.
NARRATOR: He had been referred by a nursing home where the doctor had diagnosed his condition as angina pectoris. Now it is axiomatic that nursing home doctors are always wrong.
ROOM 806: The old man, shirtless, is propped on the edge of the bed, wheezing. DR. SCHAEFER, a young intern in white-uniform, perches beside him with the old man's chart in his lap, taking down his history. The other patient in the two-bedded room, a MIDDLE-AGED MAN, is comatose and all rigged up with I.V.'s and catheters.
NARRATOR: The intern who admitted Mr. Guernsey, however, accepted the diagnosis and prescribed morphine, a drug suitable for angina but not at all suitable for emphysema, which is, unfortunately, what the old man actually had. Within an hour.
NARRATOR: .the patient became unresponsive and diaphoretic and was raced up to Intensive Care with an irregular pulse of 150, blood pressure 90 over 60, respiration rapid and shallow.
INTENSIVE CARE: An oxygen mask is applied to the old man's face by the
NARRATOR: The resident on duty now compounded the blunder by treating the old man for pulmonary edema. He gave him digitalis, diuretics and oxygen. This restored the old man's color.
NARRATOR: .and he was sent back to his room in the Holly Pavilion, ruddy complected and peacefully asleep.
NARRATOR: In point of fact, the patient was in CO2 narcosis.
ROOM 806: All the lights are on now. NURSE PENNY CANDUSO and an orderly are wrapping the old man in a post-mortem shroud. BRUBAKER, the senior resident, is giving hell to Schaefer, the intern.
NARRATOR: .and died at seven-thirty that
NARRATOR: I mention all this, only to explain how the bed in Room 806 became
NARRATOR: The intern involved was a prickly young buck named Schaefer who had a good thing going for him with a technician in the hematology lab. In the haphazard fashion of hospital romances, Dr. Schaefer had been zapping this girl on wheelchairs, stretchers, pantry shelves.
NARRATOR: .in the kitchen, in the morgue, in the dark corners of corridors.
NARRATOR: .standing up, sitting down so you can imagine what an available bed meant to him.
SCHAEFER: ( on phone ) Hey, Sheila, this is Howard, Sheila. Hey listen. I got us a bed for tonight. A real, honest-to-god bed.
THE HOSPITAL: INTERSPERSED WITH CREDITS, the following scenes:
ROOM 806: Dark, silent, hushed. The fun and games are over. Sheila is in front of the armoire. She slips back into her dress, after which she tiptoes back to the bed where Schaefer is deeply asleep, smiling in postcoital peace. Sheila bends, shakes his shoulder.
SHEILA: ( whispers ) I'll see you.
NURSE PEREZ: Doctor Schaefer.
NURSE PEREZ: ( trying again, with little hope ) Doctor Schaefer?
NURSE PEREZ: Listen, did you know Doctor Schaefer was in Eight-O-Six, because he's I'm just telling you, Dr. Schaefer is dead.
MRS. REARDON: ( late forties, continues her painstaking paperwork, grunts ) I'm just telling you, Dr. Schaefer is dead.
NURSE PEREZ: I'm just telling you, Dr. Schaefer is dead.
MRS. REARDON: ( works on; after a moment, looks up ) What do you want, Perez?
NURSE PEREZ: Look, I don't know what the hell this is all about, but Dr. Schaefer is in Room 806 with an I.V. running and he's dead. I didn't even know he was sick.
MRS. REARDON: ( regards Perez a moment ) Perez, what the hell are you talking ( appeals to Nurse Rivers coming out of the floor pharmacy ) Do you know what the hell she's talking about?
NURSE PEREZ: Well, maybe I'm going crazy. I don't know. Isn't Room 806 the patient Guernsey? I mean, did something happen I don't know about?
MRS. REARDON: Perez, I don't know what you're talking about.
NURSE PEREZ: This is the nuttiest thing I ever saw. Dr. Schaefer's in Room 806 dead.
MRS. REARDON: What Dr. Schaefer? Our Dr. Schaefer?
NURSE PEREZ: Our Dr. Schaefer. The one who's always grabbing everybody's ass.
MRS. REARDON: ( to Nurse Rivers ) Do you know what she's talking about? I don't know what she's talking about. ( to Perez ) What do you mean Doctor Schaefer's in Room 806 dead?
NURSE PEREZ: I mean, he's lying on the far bed, stone dead, and with an I.V. tube sticking out of him. And if you don't believe me, maybe you just ought to get up and look for yourself.
MRS. REARDON: All right, maybe you'd better call Mrs. Christie.
BOCK: This is Dr. Bock. Yes, Mrs. Christie, what is it? It's all right, I'd be getting up in a few minutes anyway. I'm sorry I missed that. Would you say it again? Yes, I know him, Schaefer, the stud with the glasses, who fancies the nurses. I'm afraid I don't understand that, what do you mean? Was he sick? I mean, was he. uh, what was the cause of death? Was he being treated? I don't understand. What was he doing in the bed? You did say he. Look, Mrs. Christie, did you call the office? Good, well, I'll. No, no, it's all right. I'll be getting my wake-up call any minute anyway.
GRUMBLING PROTESTERS: ( chanting ) Two-four! Help the poor!
DR. IVES: What do you say, Sundstrom? How much longer do you think our monopolistic, exclusionary, racist policies will We're the hope!
PROTESTER: We're the hope!
SUNDSTROM: So how's it going, Herb?
BOCK: ( after a moment ) One of my interns dropped dead this Really? I'm sorry to hear that. I understand you've moved out to a It got that bad with Phyllis?
SUNDSTROM: Really? I'm sorry to hear that. I understand you've moved out to a It got that bad with Phyllis?
BOCK: It got that bad with Phyllis?
SUNDSTROM: It got that bad with Phyllis?
BOCK: It's been that bad for twenty-four years. Are you going to be solicitous?
SUNDSTROM: Oh, God.
BOCK: Oh, God.
SUNDSTROM: Listen, Herb, I'm the guy who brought you into this hospital, so I think I can skip the diplomatic overtures. Marty stopped me in the hall yesterday, very upset. He had just had lunch with you and said you sounded suicidal. Marty tends to be extravagant, but he's not the only one. Jack Singer mentioned the other day you've been boozing it up a lot. And let's face it, you've been sloughing off. I understand you haven't even been doing rounds.
BOCK: I'm going to do rounds today.
SUNDSTROM: Herb, want a couple of days off?
BOCK: Go down to Montego Bay, get drunk, get laid, get a little sun.
SUNDSTROM: Go down to Montego Bay, get drunk, get laid, get a little sun.
BOCK: For God's sake, John, I'm fifty-three years old with all the attendant fears. I just left my wife after twenty-four years. Standard case of menopausal melancholy.
SUNDSTROM: Maybe you ought to have a talk with Joe Einhorn.
BOCK: I don't want to see a psychiatrist. Stop worrying about me. All I have to do is get my ass back to work, and I'll be fine. I'm sorry I've caused you concern.
MILTON MEAD: Sid just called from St. Luke's, and he's heard that the demonstrators up there are planning a march to join the bunch down here.
SUNDSTROM: Oh, God. Did you call the cops?
MILTON MEAD: HOLLY PAVILION, EIGHTH FLOOR. 8:15 A.M. The elevator door opens. Out comes Bock, overcoat unbuttoned now. He clumps to the Nurses' Station. An unusual number of nurses seems to be there. Through the doorway of the floor pharmacy, we can see Nurse Rivers of the night shift being comforted by Nurse Perez of the night shift and Nurse Edwards of the morning shift. The head morning nurse, MRS. DONOVAN, is at the desk hunched over her paperwork. ( Nurses are always hunched over their paperwork. ) NURSE FELICIA CHILE is also seated at the desk doing some paperwork. Head Nurse Donovan looks up briefly as Dr. Bock approaches.
MRS. DONOVAN: ( back to her paperwork ) They're all in Eight-O-Six, Doctor.
BOCK: What happened?
MRS. DONOVAN: I think I'll just let Mrs. Christie tell you about it.
BRUBAKER: ( as he approaches, rolls his eyes ) Oh boy.
BOCK: What happened?
BRUBAKER: I've seen some pretty good snafus, but this one. I mean, there's a certain splendor to this one. One of the night nurses, a float, thought Schaefer was a patient and plugged an I.V. into him. He was a diabetic, you know.
BOCK: What do you mean, a nurse plugged an I.V. into him?
BRUBAKER: Oh, it's really a screwed-up story, Doctor. You see, what happened was we had an old man in that bed who died last night, so the bed was available. And you know Schaefer. He's Sammy Stud.
BOCK: And he talked a nurse into zapping him on that bed.
BRUBAKER: I think it was a girl from hematology he's been running with.
BOCK: My God, it's a Roman farce.
HITCHCOCK: I thought I heard you out here,
ROOM 806: Aside from Hitchcock, the room includes MRS. CHRISTIE, the Director of Nurses, a fusty forty-six, in streetclothes; Head Night Nurse, Mrs. Reardon, in uniform; Head Evening Nurse, MRS. DUNNE, mid-fifties, who had apparently been called in from home because she's in mufti and wearing a winter coat; and, of course, the comatose patient and the dead Dr. Schaefer. Mrs. Christie is instructing the two nurses.
MRS. CHRISTIE: I'll need one from both of you, three copies, and I suggest you do that right now. The forms are in my I'm really so terribly sorry about this, Dr. Bock. I.
MRS. DUNNE: I'm really so terribly sorry about this, Dr. Bock. I.
BOCK: ( regarding Schaefer's rigid death mask ) As I understand it, one of the nurses inadvertently administered an I.V. to Schaefer here. How the hell could that happen?
HITCHCOCK: Listen, I think we ought to straighten this out somewhere else.
MRS. CHRISTIE: Yes, very good idea. Oh God, what a
MRS. CHRISTIE: ( with a sigh ) Well, these things happen, of course.
HITCHCOCK: I suppose I'd better call the Medical I still don't know what happened.
BOCK: I still don't know what happened.
MRS. CHRISTIE: Well, it took an hour to get it sorted out. It seems a patient named Guernsey died last night in Eight-O-Six, but that information wasn't given to the night nurses. These things happen.
MRS. CHRISTIE: ( rattling on ) At any rate, according to the cardex, the patient Guernsey was down for twenty-five milligrams of Sparine Q- 6-H, so Mrs. Reardon sent Nurse Perez to give him his twelve o'clock shot. Meanwhile, it seems Dr. Schaefer had usurped that particular bed for his own purposes. Dr. Brubaker suggests it was for a love tryst, and some weight is given that hypothesis by the fact that Dr. Schaefer was naked.
BOCK: ( trying to give his attention to this ) I get the drift, Mrs. Christie. In other words, Nurse Perez went in and sedated Dr. Schaefer thinking it was the patient Guernsey. My God! What I don't understand.
MRS. CHRISTIE: If I may finish, Doctor. Well, after Perez gave him his shot, she noticed the I.V. on the bed had been pinched off, and she reported that back to Mrs. Reardon, who then assigned Nurse Rivers to restart the I.V. Now Rivers was a float. She didn't even know the staff people on the floor, and nobody knew what the patient Guernsey looked like anyway, since he'd only been admitted that So she plugged an I.V. into him.
BOCK: So she plugged an I.V. into him.
MRS. CHRISTIE: How much?
BOCK: How much?
MRS. CHRISTIE: A liter.
BOCK: ( The doctor in him intrudes into his lassitude ) A five percent glucose solution won't kill anybody. Did he have any other ancillary conditions? He wasn't dehydrated, was he? Didn't anybody bother to go in to check him during the night, even under the impression he was merely a patient? Was he hyperasthmolic? Did he have a bad heart? He must have had some kind of thrombosis. I want the post done here, Mr. Hitchcock. And you and I better have a little chat, Mrs. Christie, about your excessive use of float nurses.
MRS. CHRISTIE: I've got nearly a thousand nurses in this hospital.
BOCK: ( gathering rage ) And every time one of them has her period, she disappears for three days. My doctors complain regularly they can't find the same nurse on the same floor two days in a row. What the hell am I supposed to tell that boy Schaefer's parents? That a substitute nurse assassinated him, because she couldn't tell the doctors from the patients on the floor? My God, the incompetence here is absolutely radiant! I mean, two separate nurses walk into a room, stick needles into a man and one of those was a number eighteen jelco! tourniquet the poor sonofabitch, anchor the poor sonofabitch's arm with adhesive tape, and it's the wrong poor sonofabitch! I mean, my God! Where do you train your nurses, Mrs. Christie? Dachau!? ( he is aware his voice has risen and is attracting attention. He lowers his voice ) All right, wrap him up and get him down to Pathology. I'm especially interested in his blood sugar. A liter of glucose never killed anybody. Your ladies must've done something else to him.
MRS. CHRISTIE: Will there be anything else, Doctor?
BOCK: Before you call the family, Doctor, I wish you'd talk to Mr. Mead about this. We'd like, naturally, to avoid
HITCHCOCK: Before you call the family, Doctor, I wish you'd talk to Mr. Mead about this. We'd like, naturally, to avoid
MISS LEBOW: ( mouthing )
MISS LEBOW: A few things have been piling up. Would you like to go into them?
MISS LEBOW: A quickie. Dr. Esterhazy wants to start hiring temporary people to cover the summer vacations. He says last year some of the replacement people didn't receive their checks until they waited six months. He wonders if you could do something about getting these people paid more
MISS LEBOW: ( drones on ) Miss Aronovici complains the lab reports are coming in slow into the E.R. I called Dr. Immelman about that, and she said three microscopes have been stolen out of her lab in the last two months. Charley Waters also complains about pilferage. I've clumped all those together for you. ( she lays a sheaf of memos in front of Bock, who stares at them blankly ) Now, as you know, Doctor, we've agreed to take over the local ambulance cases as part of the hospital's commitment to the community, and it's created a serious overload in the E.R. I don't know why this was dumped in our lap, but.
BOCK: ( staring at his desktop ) Find out if Dr. Einhorn is in his office yet.
MISS LEBOW: Which Dr. Einhorn? Ophthalmology or Never mind. I'll look in myself.
BOCK: ( suddenly stands ) Never mind. I'll look in myself.
BOCK: Is he in? Can you give me a few minutes, Joe?
BOCK: Can you give me a few minutes, Joe?
EINHORN: ( short, chunky, bespectacled, late fifties ) Of course.
BOCK: ( ill at ease ) I've been having periods of acute depression recently. Apparently, it's becoming noticeable. A number of people have remarked on it. Anyway, John Sundstrom thought it might be a good idea if I spoke to you about Do you want to sit down, Herb?
EINHORN: Do you want to sit down, Herb?
BOCK: No. I'm not good at confessional. Well, what can I tell you? The last year, two, three. it goes way back, I suppose. I can remember entertaining suicidal thoughts as a college student. At any rate, I've always found life demanding. I'm an only child of lower-middle-class people. I was the glory of my parents. My son the doctor. Well, you know. I was always top of my class. Scholarship to Harvard. The boy genius, the brilliant eccentric. Terrified of women, clumsy at sports. God, Joe, how the hell do I go about I understand you just separated from your wife.
EINHORN: I understand you just separated from your wife.
BOCK: I left her a dozen times. She left me a dozen times. We stayed together through a process of attrition. Obviously sado-masochistic dependency. My home is hell. We've got a twenty- three-year-old boy I threw out of the house last year. A shaggy-haired Maoist. I don't know where he is, presumably building bombs in basements as an expression of his universal brotherhood. I've got a seventeen- year-old daughter who's had two abortions in two years and got arrested last week at a rock festival for pushing drugs. They let her off. The typical affluent American family. I don't mean to be facile about this.
BOCK: I blame myself for those two useless young people. I never exercised parental authority. I'm no good at that. Oh, God, I'm no good at this either. Joe, let's just forget the whole thing. I'm sorry I bothered
EINHORN: How serious are your suicidal speculations, Herb?
BOCK: ( at the door ) I amuse myself with different ways of killing myself that don't look like suicide. I wouldn't want to do my family out of the insurance.
EINHORN: Digitalis will give you an arrhythmia.
BOCK: A good toxologist would find traces. Potassium's much better. Sixty milli equivalent. Instantaneous. Of course, then you're stuck with how to get rid of the hypodermic. Forty milli equivalent. Gives you plenty of time to dispose of the evidence.
EINHORN: You seem to have given considerable thought to the matter.
BOCK: You ought to know a man who talks about it all the time never does it.
EINHORN: I don't know. I see a man who's exhausted, emotionally drained, riddled with guilt, and has been systematically stripping himself of his wife, children, friends, isolating himself from the world. Are you What does that mean?
BOCK: What does that mean?
EINHORN: What does that mean?
BOCK: It means I haven't tried in so long, I don't know. Let's just drop the whole thing, Joe. I feel humiliated and stupid. All I have to do is pull myself together and get back into my work. I'm sorry I troubled you. Take care of yourself. I'll see you.
HOSPITAL. NOON: HIGH ANGLE SHOT establishing the passing of hours. Sun high overhead, traffic on First Avenue an impenetrable river of HONKS and HOOTS. At a crosswalk, a loose procession of fifty or so shouting demonstrators, bearing placards, flows toward the main gates. Their posters read: "FIGHT DOPE NOT DOPES!" "DRUGS YES! TRANSPLANTS NO!" and "SAVE OUR KIDS FROM THE SKIDS!" which is what they now chant: "Save our kids! From the Skids!" The demonstration moves through a handful of city cops where our original group of twenty still ramble around, chanting: "Two Four! Help the Poor!"
BOCK: All set?
BRUBAKER: Yes, sir.
BOCK: ( to Brubaker en passant ) Who's that exotic group?
BRUBAKER: ( murmurs ) You got me. They've been here about an hour.
BOCK: Dr. Perry said he picked the tuberculosis and the liver nodes for today, right?
BRUBAKER: Yes, sir.
BOCK: Good. Because that's the one I studied up. A hell of a case.
BOCK: All right, who's presenting?
MRS. CUSHING: Is there anybody seated who hasn't been to see me first? Is there anyone here who hasn't given me their health insurance number?
MRS. CUSHING: Emergency Room. Well, I don't know, Sybil. What's his name? Would you wait a moment, please. I'm on the phone, can't you see I'm on the phone? .Of course not, do they ever? Would you mind, please. I have to get through, do you mind?
MRS. CUSHING: Would you wait a moment, please. I'm on the phone, can't you see I'm on the phone? .Of course not, do they ever? Would you mind, please. I have to get through, do you mind?
NURSE: ( on phone ) Give me that one again. thirty-
PARANOID LADY: They follow me everywhere. Three big black men. Naked, completely exposed. Right in the street. Hanging down to their knees. Disgusting. They're waiting out there for me now.
MRS. CUSHING: Did you call upstairs and tell them to admit a patient named Mitgang?
MRS. ARONOVICI: ( continuing to treat the little girl ) The concussion?
MRS. CUSHING: I don't know. They just called me. They said you didn't fill out the chart. And where do you come off sending anyone up to Admitting without my okay?
MRS. ARONOVICI: Sally, would you get the fuck out of here. The patient's in the Holding Room. You want his Blue Cross number, you go in and you get his Blue Cross
MRS. CUSHING: Do you mind, please.
NURSE: O.P.D. wants to know how that asthmatic they sent down is.
DR. SPEZIO: ( just leaving the group around the junkie ) She's fine. We'd like to keep her here a little while. May I see you a moment, Doctor, if you don't mind.
MRS. CUSHING: May I see you a moment, Doctor, if you don't mind.
DR. SPEZIO: ( sighs, calls back to the triage nurse ) I'll be right back.
MRS. CUSHING: ( thrusting some papers at the doctor ) If you don't mind, Doctor, is this your handwriting?
MRS. CUSHING: Am I supposed to read that? Was it a sprain? Was it a broken wrist? I can't read that scribbling. I mean, I have to bill these people. I know you doctors are the ministering angels, and I'm just the bitch from the Accounting Department, but I have my job to do too. I mean, if you don't mind, Doctor.?
DR. SPEZIO: ( studies the paper ) The kid had a collar fracture. We had him in the O.R. We reduced it and we gave him a small cast.
MRS. CUSHING: ( calls after him ) But did you give him a sling? You must have taken X-rays. How am I supposed to make up the charges?
MRS. CUSHING: Are you Mitgang? I'm Mitgang.
MITGANG: I'm Mitgang.
MRS. CUSHING: Do you carry Blue Cross, Blue Shield, Mr. Mitgang, if you don't mind?
MRS. CUSHING: Do you have your card with you? Do you know your number?
MRS. CUSHING: Mr. Mitgang, you're not leaving this room until I have this information.
NURSE: ( enters for some chore ) Will you leave that man alone?
MRS. CUSHING: ( indicating the other patient ) Do you mind if I at least ask this gentleman to fill out his chart?
MRS. CUSHING: May I have your A.H.S. policy number,
MRS. CUSHING: ( looming ) Do you carry Blue Cross? Blue Shield?
MRS. CUSHING: ( as Spezio approaches, with spiteful relish ) I think one of your patients in here is dead, Dr. Spezio.
DR. SPEZIO: ( enters the Holding Room ) Why do you say that, Mrs. Cushing?
MRS. CUSHING: Because he wouldn't give me his Blue Cross number, Dr. Spezio.
HOLDING ROOM: Spezio regards the death mask of a face.
DR. SPEZIO: Oh, Christ.
DR. SPEZIO: How the hell long has this man been lying here? Isn't this that doctor who came in around nine o'clock?
CHIEF ENGINEER: I mean, they gave me a hard time, Con Ed. "For Pete's Sake," I said, "this is a hospital. One of our feedlines just blew."
MILTON MEAD: ( it's another annoyance; he sighs with irritation )
CHIEF ENGINEER: I mean, it's lucky we traced it in No, I'll be right up. Have we covered about everything?
MILTON MEAD: ( on phone ) No, I'll be right up. ( hangs up, stands ) Have we covered about everything?
ADMINISTRATIVE RESIDENT: Dr. Kish has been driving me nuts with the O.R. schedule.
MILTON MEAD: He's supposed to see me about that.
MEAD'S SECRETARY: ( looks up to Mead from talking on the phone ) This is the Emergency Room. One of the doctors just died of a heart ( pauses ) One of our staff?
MILTON MEAD: ( pauses ) One of our staff?
MEAD'S SECRETARY: I think so.
MILTON MEAD: ( to Hitchcock ) Tom, you want to go down to the Emergency Room? One of our doctors just died.
HITCHCOCK: What? Another one?
MILTON MEAD: Yeah, see what that's about. I'll be on Holly Eight. I'll be right It's no longer pilferage, Milton. It's reached the point of piracy. That's the third microscope this Why don't we get together on this sometime this afternoon, Fran?
DR. IMMELMEN: It's no longer pilferage, Milton. It's reached the point of piracy. That's the third microscope this Why don't we get together on this sometime this afternoon, Fran?
MILTON MEAD: Why don't we get together on this sometime this afternoon, Fran?
DR. IMMELMAN: One o'clock?
MILTON MEAD: One o'clock will be fine.
MRS. DONOVAN: ( without pausing or looking up ) Your brother's in the room, Mr. Mead.
MILTON MEAD: What room is it?
MRS. DONOVAN: Mead bobs his head thank you and heads for the west corridor.
MILTON MEAD: For heaven's sake, Willie, you're going to be in the hospital for two lousy days. What're you making such a fuss about?
WILLIAM MEAD: You're supposed to be such a big wheel here.
MILTON MEAD: There are no private rooms available. If they brought in Jesus Christ fresh off the cross, I couldn't get Him a private room.
WILLIAM MEAD: I'm not going to stay in a room with a dying man.
MARILYN MEAD: He's not dying. They'll screen him off. You won't even know he's here.
MILTON MEAD: If you want a private room, go on home, and I'll call you the first one that comes up. But you're the one who phoned me in a panic, you're going on a vacation. For heaven's sake, Willie, they'll cut this polyp out tomorrow morning. You'll be home Thursday, you'll be in Miami Friday. Marilyn, will you talk some sense into this lunatic?
MARILYN MEAD: Well, you said it, he's a lunatic.
WILLIAM MEAD: Big wheel, can't even get me a private I'll get you a tranquilizer.
MILTON MEAD: I'll get you a tranquilizer.
BOCK: .five, a full abdomen contrasted to wasting elsewhere; six, ascites with a protein content above four grams; unexplained anemia, leukopenia, unexplained elevation of the serum gamma globulin level, especially abnormal flocculation tests, and of course, a positive P.P.D. All these findings assume special significance among Negroes. This has been a very commendable workup, as commendable a workup of an F.U.O. as I can remember. The staff of this floor is to be It's a reportable case, Brubaker. Write it up. Well, let's go have a look at the
SUTCLIFFE: Nurse! Nurse, who's the Senior Resident on this floor?
NURSE: That would be Dr. Brubaker. But I'm afraid he's at Chief of Service rounds right now.
SUTCLIFFE: That's. this way?
BOCK: I wonder if there might not be some correlation between hepatic tuberculosis and drug addiction. Presumably, there was an early consideration of S.B.E.
BRUBAKER: ( off-screen ) Yes, sir. We discounted it after repeated blood cultures were negative.
BOCK: You, Ambler. Is that right, Ambler?
AMBLER: Yes, sir.
BOCK: What else do you look for in bacterial Some sort of embolic phenomena, sir.
AMBLER: ( nervous ) Some sort of embolic phenomena, sir.
BOCK: ( flagging Brubaker ) Dr. Brubaker, I wonder if I could see you for a moment?
SUTCLIFFE: ( flagging Brubaker ) Dr. Brubaker, I wonder if I could see you for a moment?
ROOM 819: Past two beds, they group around the foot of a third bed on the right side of the room. Bock checks the patient lying in the bed.
BOCK: Still a little icteric. Who's got an
BOCK: Did anyone note Roth spots? Well, don't worry about it. There aren't any. Ambler, you're our big man on S.B.E. What was the latex- It wasn't done, sir.
BOCK: Well, don't worry about it. There aren't any. Ambler, you're our big man on S.B.E. What was the latex- It wasn't done, sir.
BIEGELMAN: It wasn't done, sir.
BOCK: Don't you think that's an important test to differentiate S.B.E. from miliary T.B.?
BIEGELMAN: ( off-screen ) No, s.
BOCK: Not you, Biegelman. Ambler.
AMBLER: Well, there's about a seventy percent incidence of false-positive latex in
BOCK: You have been reading up. If the diagnosis were S.B.E., would a positive latex indicate anything in the therapy?
AMBLER: We'd expect the latex to become If the antibiotic therapy were Are you applying for your internship I'm not sure.
BOCK: If the antibiotic therapy were Are you applying for your internship I'm not sure.
AMBLER: If the antibiotic therapy were Are you applying for your internship I'm not sure.
BOCK: Are you applying for your internship I'm not sure.
AMBLER: I'm not sure.
BOCK: Come and see me. Would you sit up for a minute?
BRUBAKER: We've got a little thing over here, Doctor. The girl over there is the daughter of the patient in Eight-O- Six. He is at the moment comatose and requires intravenous feeding and The thing is, the daughter wants to take the father out of the hospital and back to Mexico where they live. The patient's name is Drummond. He's apparently a Methodist missionary, and he and his daughter run some kind of religious mission among the Apache Indians. The daughter claims to be a licensed nurse, so she can give the necessary I.V. treatment. I certainly don't think he should be let out of this hospital. The Attending he's the guy in gray over there concurs.
BRUBAKER: The thing is, the daughter wants to take the father out of the hospital and back to Mexico where they live. The patient's name is Drummond. He's apparently a Methodist missionary, and he and his daughter run some kind of religious mission among the Apache Indians. The daughter claims to be a licensed nurse, so she can give the necessary I.V. treatment. I certainly don't think he should be let out of this hospital. The Attending he's the guy in gray over there concurs.
BOCK: All right, wait a minute. Let me have all that again.
BRUBAKER: As a matter of fact, Doctor, this is Dr. Biegelman's case.
BOCK: Never mind the professional ethics, what happened?
BRUBAKER: ( sighs ) I don't know why I'm covering for that sonofabitch in Farkis Pavilion ( sighs and begins ) The patient, a man of fifty-six, was admitted to the hospital ten days ago for a check-up, in good health, no visible distress. We did the mandatory work-up on him. Blood cultures, stool, L.E. preps, chest, E.K.G., all negative. But there was apparently some evidence of protein in his urine. I don't know how that sonofabitch in Farkis Pavilion ever found out about it. Maybe he had some kind of deal with one of the girls in the lab. Anyway, he turned up the next day, conned the patient into signing an authorization for a What sonofabitch in Farkis Pavilion?
BOCK: What sonofabitch in Farkis Pavilion?
BRUBAKER: Some post-grad fellow named Ives. Elroy Ives. I never met him. He's on one of the immunology research Are you trying to tell me some post- grad fellow came up here and did a biopsy on the patient?
BOCK: Are you trying to tell me some post- grad fellow came up here and did a biopsy on the patient?
BRUBAKER: Yes, sir. He conned Biegelman with that old story about.
BOCK: .protein in the urine?
BRUBAKER: Yes, sir.
BOCK: And he biopsied the man?
BRUBAKER: And he nicked a vessel, and at two o'clock in the morning, they woke up Biegelman because the nurse found the patient in shock. Biegelman called the kidney people for a consult right away. What was there to see? The man was sour and bleeding. We spoke to this fellow Sutcliffe, and he referred us to a surgeon named Welbeck.
BOCK: Welbeck?! That barber!
BRUBAKER: You ain't heard nothing yet. So we finally got Welbeck around four in the morning. He said, go ahead. So they laid on the surgery for eight. Welbeck turns up, half-stoned, orders an I.V.P., clears him for allergies.
BOCK: .without actually testing.
BRUBAKER: And the patient went into shock.
BOCK: And the patient went into shock.
BRUBAKER: .and tubular necrosis. They lopped out the bleeding kidney, ran him back to the room, and we sat around waiting for three days to see how obstructed he was. Fever began spiking like hell, euremia, vomiting, so we arranged hemodialysis. He's putting out good water now. But some nurse goofed on his last treatment. A leak in the tube, something. His blood pressure plunged. They ran him right up to I.C.U., checked out vital signs, all normal except he's comatose. That was two days ago.
BOCK: In short, a man came into this hospital in perfectly good health, and, in the space of one week, we chopped out one kidney, damaged the other, reduced him to coma and damn near killed him.
BRUBAKER: Yes, sir.
BOCK: You know, Brubaker, last night I sat in my hotel room, reviewing the shambles of my life and contemplating suicide. Then I said "No, Bock, don't do it. You're a doctor, a healer. You're the Chief of Medicine at one of the great hospitals of the world. You're a necessary person. Your life is meaningful." Then I came in this morning and find out one of my doctors was killed by a couple of nurses who mistook him for a patient because he screwed a technician from the nephrology lab.
BRUBAKER: Hematology, sir.
BOCK: And now you come to me with this gothic horror story in which the entire machinery of modern medicine has apparently conspired to destroy one lousy patient. How am I to sustain my feeling of meaningfulness in the face of this? You know, Brubaker, if there was an oven around, I'd stick my head in it. What was the name of that sonofabitch from Farkis Pavilion Ives, sir. Elroy Ives. Somebody ought to ream his ass.
BRUBAKER: Ives, sir. Elroy Ives. Somebody ought to ream his ass.
BOCK: ( barely containing himself ) I'm going to ream his ass. And I'm going to break that barber Welbeck's back. I'm going to defrock those two cannibals. They won't practice in my hospital, I'll tell you that!
BRUBAKER: What'll I tell the girl, sir? She says we have no legal right to stop her from taking her father out. She's willing to sign an A.O.R. form.
BOCK: Let him go. Before we kill him.
DR. LAGERMAN: Hi, Herb.
BOCK: Get me Dr. Gilley. Put him on page if you have to. I want to talk to him right now. I don't care if he's And you get me some monkey named Ives. Ives. I-V-E-S, first name Elroy. He's in the Farkis Pavilion.
DR. LAGERMAN: I want to talk to you, Joe. Would you mind coming into my office?
BOCK: I want to talk to you, Joe. Would you mind coming into my office?
BOCK: Have you got some punk named Ives rotating in your department?
DR. LAGERMAN: Listen, Herb.
BOCK: ( sits at his desk ) I also want to know what the hell kind of a dialysis room you're running. I just came from.
BOCK: Yeah. Gilley? Put him on. Bock. Didn't you tell me a couple of months ago you were going to cut off all privileges for that assassin, Welbeck? Yeah. Wellbeck. He just butchered another one of my patients. Oh, come on, Harry! The man's a buccaneer! I want him brought before the Medical Executive Committee. He's in your department, Harry, not mine. He's putatively a surgeon!. I'll be Listen, Joe, I think you should know that you've got a research guy in your department named Ives who's been doing some very dubious biopsies. We're having enough trouble squeezing grants out of the Nixon Ives is dead, Herb. That's why I'm
DR. LAGERMAN: Ives is dead, Herb. That's why I'm
BOCK: What do you mean, Ives is dead?
DR. LAGERMAN: I mean he's dead. He had a heart attack in the Emergency Room.
BOCK: He had a heart attack in the Emergency What the hell is this? Some kind of Where is he now?
DR. LAGERMAN: ( blinking ) What the hell is this? Some kind of ( stands ) Where is he now?
BOCK: ( blinking ) What the hell is this? Some kind of ( stands ) Where is he now?
DR. LAGERMAN: They were just taking him down to
HITCHCOCK: .and the next thing anybody knew, about three hours later, Mrs. Cushing from Accounting came in and said there was a dead man in the Holding You don't find anything grotesque about all this?
BOCK: You don't find anything grotesque about all this?
HITCHCOCK: What do you mean?
BOCK: I mean, at half past eight this morning, we meet over a doctor who's been killed intravenously, and here we are again, four hours later, with another doctor who had a heart attack in the Emergency Room.
HITCHCOCK: Well, what're you suggesting Doctor? Do you think we have a mad killer stalking the halls of the hospital? Presumably, Dr. Ives died of a heart attack and Schaefer in a diabetic coma. People do die of these things. It's all perhaps coincidental, but I don't think I'd call it grotesque.
BOCK: How long are they going to be on Schaefer's post? I don't suppose you'd like to call next of kin?
BOCK: ( pauses at door, to Lagerman ) I don't suppose you'd like to call next of kin?
DR. LAGERMAN: No thanks.
BOCK: ( deeply depressed ) Oh God, I need a drink.
BOCK'S OFFICE: ACROSS the silent, dark, typewriter-covered desks of the two secretaries through the doorway to Bock's private office, we can see Bock at his desk, lit by the desk lamp. He has a bottle of booze on his desk. He gets up from his desk. He has made a decision.
NURSES' STATION: .where Mrs. Dunne looks up as she passes.
NURSE DEVINE: Mrs. Dunne nods. Nurse Devine makes her way silently down the sleeping doors to.
ROOM 806: Dark, sleeping. The bathroom light is on, but only a thin stream of yellow light trickles through the door. THUNDER CRASHES. William Mead sleeps fitfully. The other patient is entirely curtained off. Nurse Devine sets her tray on Mead's bedtable, turns on the goose-neck lamp, keeping it from his eyes. She unwraps the hypodermic syringe, sets in the needle, draws the required dosage, reaches over and gently shakes Mead by the shoulder.
NURSE DEVINE: ( softly ) Mr. Mead. Mr. Mead, I have an injection for you.
NURSE DEVINE: What the hell is going on in there?
PHARMACY: .where he quickly runs his finger along the second shelf until he comes to the bottle of potassium which he filches off the shelf and slips into his pocket. He rummages through the drawers for a hypodermic syringe. Through the open doorway, we see Nurse Devine making her way swiftly up to Mrs. Dunne at the desk.
NURSE DEVINE: Well, honey, we got a witch-doctor in Eight-O-Six, and you better go in there. You know that Indian that was sitting in Eight-O-Six all night? He's still there, and the girl's there, and they're doing some voodoo in there, and I ain't kidding.
MRS. DUNNE: ( looking up ) What are you talking about?
NURSE DEVINE: I mean that Indian's in there, half- naked and going pis-pis-pis with a little bag. You just better get in there, Mrs. Dunne.
NURSE DEVINE: ( to NURSE WEITZENBAUM, coming out of another room ) You want to see somethin', baby? You jus' come here.
BARBARA: ( keeping her voice low ) Look, it's a perfectly harmless ceremony, nothing to get excited about. It'll be over in a few minutes anyway. Mr. Blacktree is a shaman who gets his power from the thunder, and it's imperative he conclude his rituals while the storm is still going on.
NURSE DUNNE: Visiting hours were over at nine o'clock, Miss.
BARBARA: All that's going on in there, Doctor, is a simple Apache prayer for my father's recovery.
ROOM 806: As Bock slides in, a bit of the corridor light comes in with him. The curtains have been left sufficiently open to reveal Mr. Blacktree. He is still stripped to the waist and marked with crosses of pollen. He extends two twigs to the four directions after which he places the twigs carefully on the white sheet covering Drummond in a pattern around the amulet already there. Behind Bock, Mrs. Dunne can be seen peeking in. The Indian is oblivious to both of them. Bock watches it all with interest for a moment and then backs out into.
BARBARA: The markings he's made on my father's arms are from the pollen of the tule plant. The twigs have no significance other than they've been struck by lightning and are consequently appeals to the spirit of lightning. It's all entirely harmless, a religious ceremony, not a medical one.
BOCK: You don't seriously believe all that mumbo-jumbo will cure him?
BARBARA: On the other hand, it won't kill him, Doctor.
BOCK: ( grunts ) Okay. Go ahead.
BARBARA: Thank you.
BOCK: Miss Drummond, are you still taking your father out?
BARBARA: Yes. I still have to arrange an ambulance service. Is there a phone around I could use?
BOCK: Use my office.
BARBARA: Thank you.
ROOM 806: Barbara comes in, gathers her coat and purse from a chair and moves to the Indian, now occupied with what seems to be the rolling of a cigarette. The two exchange a brief dialogue in Apache. The old Indian nods. Barbara turns and exits, taking Nurse Weitzenbaum out with her and closing the door. The room is dark and hushed again. Blacktree lights his cigarette and "sends the smoke up," a ritual which consists of puffing smoke to each of the four directions, muttering in Apache "May all be well" after each puff. CAMERA SLOWLY PANS to the other bed where William Mead sleeps fitfully. The Apache words and pis-pis-pis penetrate Mead's drugged sleep. He opens one eyelid and stares glazedly at the dark air. The SOUNDS persist. Blacktree chooses this moment to sidle out from behind the curtains and continue his ritual in the less-confined space at the head of Drummond's bed. It's quite a sight for a nervous, sedated man to wake to. Thunder RUMBLES and the rain SLASHES and a sudden, savage STREAK of lightning illuminates it all. Mead figures it's all a bad dream and, after a moment of dully regarding the odd spectacle, closes his one eye and goes back to sleep.
BARBARA: ( on phone ) Hello. I'd like to arrange an ambulance for one-thirty tomorrow afternoon. Thank you. ( in background on phone ) .Drummond, first name, Barbara. I'll pay cash.
BARBARA: ( in background on phone ) .Drummond, first name, Barbara. I'll pay cash.
BARBARA: ( on phone ) No, you're to pick up my father, Drummond, Edward, at the Manhattan Medical Center, Holly Pavilion, Room Eight-O-Six. It's a stretcher case. I presume you provide the stretcher.
BARBARA: He's to be taken to American Airlines, Yes. No. Kennedy Airport, Flight Seven-Two-Nine to Yuma, Arizona. I'll accompany the patient. Yes, thank you.
BOCK'S OFFICE: Bock, back at his desk, looks up.
BOCK: You believe in witchcraft, Miss I believe in everything, Doctor.
BARBARA: I believe in everything, Doctor.
BOCK: Like a drink?
BARBARA: Bock drains his glass and pours her a hefty shot of bourbon.
BARBARA: ( from the door suddenly ) My father, you should know, was a very successful doctor in Boston, a member of the Harvard Medical Faculty. He was a widower, and I was his only child. He was not an especially religious man, a sober Methodist. One evening, seven years ago, he attended a Pentecostal meeting in the commons rooms at Harvard and suddenly found himself speaking in ( she takes her drink and crosses to the sofa ) That is to say, he suddenly sank to his knees at the back of the room and began to talk fluently in a language which no one had ever heard before. This sort of thing happens frequently at Pentecostal meetings, and they began to happen regularly to my father. ( she sits ) It was not unusual to walk into our home and find my father sitting in his office, utterly serene and happily speaking to the air in this strange foreign tongue. I was, at that time twenty years old and having my obligatory affair with a minority group, in my case a Hopi Indian, a post-graduate fellow at Harvard doing his doctorate in the aboriginal languages of the Southwest. One day, I brought the Indian boy home just as my father was sinking to his knees in the entrance foyer in one of his trances. The Indian wheeled in his tracks and said, "Well, I'll be a sonofabitch." You see, my father was speaking an Apache dialect, an obscure dialect at that, spoken only by a ragged band of unreconstructed Indians who had rejected the reservation and were living in total isolation in the Sierra Madre Mountains of northern Mexico. Well! What do you say to that, Dr. Bock?
BOCK: ( who has been staring at her as if she were insane ) What the hell am I supposed to say to that, Miss Drummond?
BOCK: I'm sitting here boozing and, all of a sudden, you start telling me some demented story about your father's religious conversion.
BARBARA: No, no, you miss the point, Doctor. Not my father's conversion mine. You see, I had been hitting the acid pretty regularly at that time. I had achieved a few minor sensory deformities, some suicidal despairs, but nothing as wild as fluency in an obscure Apache dialect. I mean, like wow, man! I mean, here was living afflatus right before my eyes! Within a week, my father had closed his Beacon Hill practice and set out to start a mission in the Mexican mountains. And I turned in my S.D.S. card and my crash helmet and followed him. It was a disaster, at least for me. My father had received the revelation, not I. He stood gaunt on a mountain slope and preached the apocalypse to solemnly amused Indians. I masturbated a great deal. We lived in a grass wickiup and ate raw rabbit and crushed piñon nuts. It was hideous. Within two months, I was back in Boston, a hollow shell and dizzy with dengue, disenchanted with everything. I turned to austerity, combed my hair tight and entered nursing school. I became haggard, driven and had shamelessly incestuous dreams about my father. I took up with some of the senior staff at the hospital. One of them, a portly psychiatrist, explained I was generated by an unresolved lust for my father. I apparently cracked up. One day, they found me walking to work naked and screaming obscenities. There was talk of institutionalizing me, so I packed a bag and went back to my father in the Sierra Madre Mountains. I've been there ever since. That's three years. My father is, of course, mad as a hatter. I watch over him and have been curiously content. You see, Doctor, I believe in everything. Now what was that all about, Miss I thought I was obvious as hell. I'm trying to tell you I have a thing for middle-aged men.
BOCK: Now what was that all about, Miss I thought I was obvious as hell. I'm trying to tell you I have a thing for middle-aged men.
BARBARA: I thought I was obvious as hell. I'm trying to tell you I have a thing for middle-aged men.
BOCK: I admire your candor.
BARBARA: You've been admiring a lot more than You're wasting your time. I've been impotent for years.
BOCK: ( looks down again ) You're wasting your time. I've been impotent for years.
BARBARA: With a crash of his fist on the desktop, Bock stands; he is in a drunken rage.
BOCK: ( lurches about ) What the hell's wrong with being impotent? My God, you kids are more hung up on sex than the Victorians! I've got a son, twenty-three. I threw him out of the house last year. Pietistic little humbug. He preached universal love and despised everyone. He had a blanket contempt for the middle class, even its decencies. He detested my mother because she had petit bourgeois pride in her son the doctor. I cannot tell you how brutishly he ignored that rather good old lady. When she died, he didn't even come to the funeral. He thought the chapel service an hypocrisy. His generation didn't live with lies, he told me. "Everybody lives with lies," I said. I grabbed him by his poncho, dragged him the full length of our seven-room despicably affluent middle-class apartment and flung him out. I haven't seen him since. But do you know what he said to me as he stood there on that landing on the verge of tears. He shrieked at me: "You old fink! You can't even get it up anymore!" That was it, you see. That was his real revolution. It wasn't racism and the oppressed poor and the war in Vietnam. The ultimate American societal sickness was a limp dingus. ( he lurches about, laughing rustily ) My God, if there is a despised and misunderstood minority in this country, it's us poor impotent bastards. Well, I'm impotent and proud of it! Impotence is beautiful, ( he raises a militant fist ) Power to the Impotent! Right on, ( smiling ) Right on.
BARBARA: ( smiling ) Right on.
BOCK: ( stares drunkenly at her ) When I say impotent, I don't mean merely limp. Disagreeable as it may be for a woman, a man may sometimes lust for other things, something less transient than an erection, some sense of permanent worth. That's what medicine was for me, my reason for being. When I was thirty-four, Miss Drummond, I presented a paper before the annual convention of the Society of Clinical Investigation that pioneered the whole goddam field of immunology. A breakthrough! I'm in all the textbooks. I happen to be an eminent man, Miss Drummond. And you want to know something, Miss Drummond? I don't give a goddam. When I say I'm impotent, I mean I've lost even my desire for work, which is a hell of a lot more primal a passion than sex. I've lost my raison d'etre, my purpose, the only thing I ever truly loved. It's all rubbish anyway. Transplants, antibodies, we manufacture genes, we can produce birth ectogenetically, we can practically clone people like carrots, and half the kids in this ghetto haven't even been inoculated for polio! We have assembled the most enormous medical establishment ever conceived, and people are sicker than ever! We cure nothing! We heal nothing! The whole goddam wretched world is strangulating in front of our eyes! That's what I mean when I say impotent! You don't know what the hell I'm talking about, do you?
BARBARA: Of course, I do.
BOCK: I'm tired, I'm terribly tired, Miss Drummond. And I hurt, and I've got nothing going for me anymore. Can you understand that?
BARBARA: Yes, of course.
BOCK: Then can you understand that the only admissable matter left is death?
BARBARA: Sounds to me like a familiar case of morbid menopause.
BOCK: Oh Christ.
BARBARA: Well, it's hard for me to take your despair very seriously, Doctor. You obviously enjoy it so much.
BOCK: Oh, bugger off. That's all I need now, clinical insights. Some cockamamie twenty-five-year-old.
BARBARA: .acidhead's going to reassure me about menopause now. Look, I'd like to be alone, so why don't you beat it? Close the door and turn off the lights on your way out.
BOCK: .acidhead's going to reassure me about menopause now. Look, I'd like to be alone, so why don't you beat it? Close the door and turn off the lights on your way out.
BARBARA: ( crossing to the door ) Mr. Blacktree disapproves of my miniskirt, but it was the only thing I had to come to the city with. Back at the tribe, I wear ankle-length Swell. Just close the door and turn off the lights.
BOCK: Swell. Just close the door and turn off the lights.
BARBARA'S VOICE: ( off-screen ) What're you shooting, Doc?
BOCK: ( barely gets the words out ) Leave me alone.
BARBARA: Potassium. You take enough of this stuff, it'll kill you, Doc. It occurred to me that I might have read you wrong, that you really were suicidal. So I came back.
BOCK: ( hysterical rage ) Who the hell asked you!
BOCK: Who the hell asked you!
BOCK: Leave me alone! Why the hell don't you leave me alone! Why didn't you let me do it? Who the hell asked you!
BOCK: Why didn't you let me do it? Who the hell asked you!
CAMPANELLA: Well, I'll see you.
CAMPANELLA: Do you have a match, Doctor?
BOCK: You wouldn't be awake.
BARBARA: What time is it?
BOCK: I swiped this for you out of the nurses' locker room. I'll make good on your dress. I'm afraid it's torn beyond repair. Buy yourself a new one or, if you like, give me your size and I'll send it on to you. But I want to talk to you about that.
BARBARA: Talk to me about what?
BOCK: About your father. You really shouldn't move him in his condition. I just had a look at his chart. There's no reason to presume brain damage. You know as well as I you can't predict anything in these instances. He could pull out of that coma at any time. I think you should let him stay here. I'll personally look after him.
BARBARA: Is this your way of saying you'd like me to stay in town a few more
BOCK: Well, that would be nice, too.
BOCK: What do you say, Miss Drummond?
BARBARA: I expect you can call me Barbara, considering you ravished me three times last night.
BOCK: Three times?
BARBARA: Oh, look at him, pretending he didn't count. You were as puffed up as a toad about it. Punched a couple of holes in your crusade for universal impotence, didn't it? I think we're on a first name basis by now. I'll call you Herb.
BOCK: Let's give your father a week, Barbara, what do you say?
BARBARA: ( a frown darkens her face ) No, I don't want my father in this hospital. I had a dream about this ( some of the terror shows on her face ) I dreamt this enormous starched white tile building suddenly erupted like a volcano, and all the patients, doctors, nurses, attendants, orderlies, the whole line staff, the food service people, the aged, the lame and you right in the middle were stampeding in one hideous screaming suicidal mass into the ( she stares at him wide-eyed, reliving the dream ) I'm taking my father out of here and as quickly as I can.
BOCK: You're a real fruitcake, you know?
BARBARA: Well, let me put it this way. I love you. I fancied you from the first moment you came lumbering down that hallway upstairs. I said to Mr. Blacktree, "Who's that hulking bear of a man?" The Apaches are reverential about bears. They won't eat bear meat; they never skin bears. Bear is thought of as both benign and evil, but very strong power. Men with bear power are highly respected and are frequently said to be great healers.
BARBARA: I said to Mr. Blacktree, "That man gets his power from the bear."
BOCK: Swell. Now, look, do you have a hotel, some sort of accommodations where you can stay for a week or so?
BARBARA: All right, let me put it this way, Herb. My father and I accept the implacability of death. If he dies, he dies, but I'm taking him out of here and back to Mexico about one o'clock this afternoon. I want you to come with us, because I love you and want children.
BOCK: I'm afraid Mexico sounds a little too remote for me.
BARBARA: We could use you down there, you know. There's a curiously high incidence of T.B. And you'd be a doctor again, Herb. You'd be necessary again. If you love me, I don't see what other choice you have.
BOCK: What do you mean, if I love you? I raped you in a suicidal rage. How did we get to love and children all of a sudden?
BARBARA: Oh, for heaven's sake, Herb, I ought to know if a man loves me or not. You must have told me half a hundred times last night you loved me. You murmured it, shouted it; one time, you opened the window and bellowed it out into the street.
BOCK: I think those were more expressions of gratitude than love.
BARBARA: Gratitude for what?
BOCK: Well, my God, for resurrecting feelings of life in me I thought Well, my God, what do you think love Okay, I love you, and you love me. I'm not about to argue with so relentless a romantic. Well, then, since we have this great passion going for us, I don't see why you won't stay on here in New York for a week or ten days.
BARBARA: Well, my God, what do you think love Okay, I love you, and you love me. I'm not about to argue with so relentless a romantic. Well, then, since we have this great passion going for us, I don't see why you won't stay on here in New York for a week or ten days.
BOCK: Okay, I love you, and you love me. I'm not about to argue with so relentless a romantic. Well, then, since we have this great passion going for us, I don't see why you won't stay on here in New York for a week or ten days.
BARBARA: It's up to ten days now.
BOCK: As long as it takes for your father's condition to improve.
BARBARA: No. I've had these prophetic dreams for seven nights. Seven is a sinister number. The meaning of these dreams is very clear, seven times as clear. I am to get my father and you out of this hospital before we are all You're certifiable! My God, half the time you're a perfectly intelligent young woman, and then suddenly you turn into a goddam cabalist who believes in dreams, witchcraft and bear power! And I don't like the way you dismiss my whole life as unnecessary. I do a lot of healing right here in Manhattan. I don't have to go to Mexico for it. I also teach. I send out eighty doctors a year into the world, sometimes inspirited, at least competent. I've built up one of the best damned departments of medicine in the world. We've got a hell of a heart unit here and a hell of a kidney group. A lot of people come into this hospital in big trouble, Miss Drummond, and go out better for the experience. So don't tell me how unnecessary I am.
BOCK: ( throws up his hands ) You're certifiable! My God, half the time you're a perfectly intelligent young woman, and then suddenly you turn into a goddam cabalist who believes in dreams, witchcraft and bear power! And I don't like the way you dismiss my whole life as unnecessary. I do a lot of healing right here in Manhattan. I don't have to go to Mexico for it. I also teach. I send out eighty doctors a year into the world, sometimes inspirited, at least competent. I've built up one of the best damned departments of medicine in the world. We've got a hell of a heart unit here and a hell of a kidney group. A lot of people come into this hospital in big trouble, Miss Drummond, and go out better for the experience. So don't tell me how unnecessary I am.
BARBARA: ( who's been slipping into the nurse's uniform ) So how come, eight hours ago, you were trying to kill yourself with an overdose of potassium?
BOCK: So how come, eight hours ago, you were trying to kill yourself with an overdose of potassium?
BARBARA: So how come, eight hours ago, you were trying to kill yourself with an overdose of potassium?
BOCK: Where are you going now?
BARBARA: ( gathering her coat and purse ) My hotel. I have to check out. Mr. Blacktree doesn't speak any English.
BOCK: ( from the connecting doorway ) Well, you're coming back, of course.
BARBARA: Of course. I have to settle the bill here and pack my father. And I think you need a few hours alone to make your decisions.
BOCK: What decisions?
BARBARA: You're a very tired and very damaged man. You've had a hideous marriage and I assume a few tacky affairs along the way. You're understandably reluctant to get involved again. And, on top of that, here I am with the preposterous idea you throw everything up and go off with me to some barren mountains of Mexico. It sounds utterly mad, I know. On the other hand, you obviously find this world as desolate as I do. You did try to kill yourself last night. So that's it, Herb. Either me and the mountains or the bottle of potassium. I'll be back in an hour or so. I'll be in my father's room.
BOCK'S OFFICE: He shuffles around distractedly, not knowing how to articulate the exuberance he feels. Suddenly, he opens the window, leans out and bellows to the empty air.
BOCK: All right. I love you! My God!
POLICE CAPTAIN: I repeat. I'm asking you to come out peacefully. These buildings are condemned and unfit for habitation.
POLICE CAPTAIN: ( sighs, tries again ) You people are possessing this building illegally and in violation of the law. I'm asking you to come out peacefully.
MRS. BASSEY: ( reading ) .complete sympathy with the tenants. So the hospital has assumed the responsibility of finding 400 housing units in good buildings. The hospital wishes to point out that this particular row of buildings on First Avenue was condemned by the City before the hospital acquired ownership, and even then, only after responsible leaders in the community had approved the building of our new drug rehabilitation center.
SUNDSTROM'S OFFICE: ( explodes on the phone ) Goddammit, Barry, I've got a dozen community leaders waiting for me in the library! We've been trying to work out some kind of negotiable formula for two years! And with no help from you people in the Urban Affairs Division, I might add!
SUNDSTROM: ( explodes on the phone ) Goddammit, Barry, I've got a dozen community leaders waiting for me in the library! We've been trying to work out some kind of negotiable formula for two years! And with no help from you people in the Urban Affairs Division, I might add!
SUNDSTROM: ( hardly notices Welbeck ) And I'm not going to throw all that down the drain because some cockamamie activist group is show-boating for the television cameras! You get those people out of those buildings before a wall collapses or a fire breaks out and we've got a riot on our hands!. Okay!
WELBECK: ( smiles, twinkles ) Having your troubles, eh? Well, I won't take much of your time. My name's Welbeck. I've been associated with this hospital for six years, and, yesterday afternoon, Dr. Gilley called me to say he was cutting off my privileges at the hospital. Do you know anything about it?
SUNDSTROM: ( glances at his watch ) It's news to me.
WELBECK: He said he sent the report on.
SUNDSTROM: I'll probably get it tomorrow. Report on what?
WELBECK: Well, I'm not sure myself. I did a nephrectomy on a man about seven days ago. Emergency, called in at four in the morning. The man was hemorrhaging, he'd gone sour.
SUNDSTROM: Welbeck, I'm terribly sorry, but I do have this meeting. In any event, there's nothing I can do about it. If Gilley wants to cut your privileges, he's Chief of Surgery, it's within his province. You'll have to have the hearing.
WELBECK: I have a laparotomy laid on for this morning. I assume I'll be allowed to go through with that.
SUNDSTROM: Of course.
WELBECK: ( huffing a little ) I've been associated with this hospital for six years.
SUNDSTROM: Now, now, Welbeck. It seems to me I've had your name down here before for something. I'll be in the staff room.
EXECUTIVE CORRIDOR: Flowing with a normal stream of traffic, Sundstrom and Welbeck turn right and head down to the last room of the corridor. Something comes to him, and Sundstrom pauses.
SUNDSTROM: Wait a minute. You're the fellow with the Medicaid collecting business who incorporated and went public, right? I mean, something like that? Milton Mead was telling me about you just the other day. You're a whole medical conglomerate. You've got a Factoring service, a computerized billing company, and a few proprietary hospitals, a few nursing homes. Good heavens, Welbeck, you shouldn't be brought up before a committee of mere doctors. You should be investigated by the Securities and Exchange Commission. You'll have to go through with the hearing, Welbeck. I don't interfere in these things.
HOSPITAL LIBRARY: ( all overlapping ) .no goddam halfway house, no way, baby! We ain't gonna wait 'til 1973 to deal with this problem! We want to kill the drug thing right now!. imperializing the Blackaporican community, and we reject the bourgie- ass middle-class black traitors and flunkies who are selling out the Blackaporican proletariat masses to the expansionist, racist policies of this shit hospital!.
VOICES: ( all overlapping ) .no goddam halfway house, no way, baby! We ain't gonna wait 'til 1973 to deal with this problem! We want to kill the drug thing right now!. imperializing the Blackaporican community, and we reject the bourgie- ass middle-class black traitors and flunkies who are selling out the Blackaporican proletariat masses to the expansionist, racist policies of this shit hospital!.
WOMAN: Let's get back to the abortion issue!
VOICE: Sit down, Woman!
WOMAN: What the hell does the male establishment know about abortions?
BLACK WOMAN: Who the hell raised the issue of birth control? The issue at hand is the control of drug addiction in this community and in the ghetto
BLACK MAN: We don't want no goddam abortion.
WHITE DOCTOR: Let's. let's get down to the core of this matter.
MAN: The point is that this hospital is the landlord for those buildings and they should've turned them down.
MAN: Those buildings are imperialistic extensions of the medical establishment. This hospital ought to be rebuilding those tenements, give those people decent housing.
SUNDSTROM: Please, please, please!
WILLIAM MEAD: ( under sedation ) You know, I hallucinated last night. I hallucinated there was an Indian doing a war dance in here.
NURSE CHILE: ( affably ) You weren't hallucinating, Mr. Mead. There was an Indian in here last ( staring through his sedation at her ) There was?
WILLIAM MEAD: ( staring through his sedation at her ) There was?
NURSE: Dr. Norris says about half an hour.
SECOND NURSE: Tell Shirley it was just an ovarian
THIRD NURSE: Shirley, it was just an ovarian cyst!
VOICE: ( off-screen ) Oh, thank God.
MRS. KIMBALL: ( handing the orderly a slip ) All right, Jerry, go up to Holly
ORDERLY: ( to Mrs. Kimball ) William Mead from Holly Eight.
MRS. KIMBALL: Hold him there, Tom. We've got somebody coming out right now. Who's that? Mangafranni?
MRS. KIMBALL: ( to this nurse ) Who's that? Mangafranni?
CIRCULATING NURSE: ( checking wristband ) ( to orderly ) Number three, Marty.
OUTER CORRIDOR: .Welbeck crosses, opens a door and enters.
RESIDENT: It's legal for a doctor to incorporate in New York, isn't it, Doctor?
WELBECK: ( en route to phone ) Since last September. If they had that when I was your age, I'd have put away a couple of million by now. ( dials ) It gives you a variety of deferral devices, profit-sharing for example. Let's say you pick yourself an October 31-fiscal. You declare a bonus payable in '71. An accrued item payable to a principle share-holder must be paid within two and half months after the close of the year to get the deduction in the prior year. But your corporation doesn't pay that tax, because we've eliminated the taxable income with the bonus. With two taxable entities, you can bury a hell of a lot of expenses. ( on phone ) Hello, this is Welbeck, any messages?. Well, I'm at the hospital. I have to cut open some guy in a couple of minutes. I'll try to make it as fast as I can. How urgent did he say it was?. Well, Dr. Hogan made those arrangements with the underwriters. The Registration Statement was filed with the S.E.C. well over a year ago. If he calls again, have me paged here. ( hangs up, turns back to the attentive young doctors to conduct his class in medical finance while changing into surgical scrub ) The really big money is in health leasing, of course. Dr. Hogan, the eminent orthopedic surgeon, and I incorporated a leasing company and went public last year. I hold a controlling interest in a number of proprietary hospitals, nursing homes and rest farms, and I've been leasing hospital equipment to my own hospitals at excessive rates. Why, you ask, am I draining my own hospitals? Well, my hospitals are taxed at 48 percent, and I'm giving my leasing company a hell of a price-earnings ratio, which'll balloon the market value of the stock. I hold three hundred thousand shares of that stock, lettered of course, but in a year, I'll dump those shares at a capital gain and walk off with a bundle.
DR. MALLORY: Mangafranni, right?
SCRUB NURSE: DR. MALLORY ( grumbles to one of the residents ) DR. CHU
DR. MALLORY: ( grumbles to one of the residents ) What do you say, huh? We're not going to hang it in the Louvre, you know. Bring a mask over.
DR. CHU: Bring a mask over.
RESIDENT ANESTHESIOLOGIST: There's no pulse, Doctor.
DR. CHU: What's the pressure?
RESIDENT ANESTHESIOLOGIST: There's no blood pressure, Doctor.
DR. CHU: No pulse. Get the tube and E.K.G.
DR. MALLORY: What's the matter?
RESIDENT: I can't feel a thing, sir.
DR. MALLORY: What the hell happened?
DR. CHU: I don't know. She must have thrown an embolus. She was doing fine up to Did you check the gasses?
RESIDENT ANESTHESIOLOGIST: I did, sir.
DR. CHU: The only time I ever saw anybody conk out like this, some jerk switched the nitrous oxide and the gas lines.
DR. MALLORY: Get the damn leads on. For Chrissakes, what the hell is this?!
RESIDENT: She's just a young woman, sir. Do you think we should open the chest?
DR. MALLORY: ( defibrillating ) She's fifty-three, you buttonhead!
RESIDENT: ( off-screen )
DR. CHU: She's fibrillating, Doctor.
DR. MALLORY: Jesus H. Christ!
DR. CHU: Okay, stop for a minute. Doctor.
DR. MALLORY: ( barking at the scrub nurse ) You got those paddles ready?
DR. CHU: I may be crazy, Doctor, but I don't think this is your patient.
DR. MALLORY: What the hell are you talking about?
BOCK: Now, I don't want to get into an institutional hassle with you, Mrs. Christie. The malpractice here is monumental. As you see, Dr. Schaefer's blood sugar was twenty-three. No glucose solution is going to do that. The only thing that will do that is at least fifty units of insulin, probably more. The only presumption is that one of those nurses on the Eighth Floor shot fifty units of insulin into Schaefer's blood stream, either by injection or through the I.V., although how in God's name.
MRS. CHRISTIE: I'm very sorry, Doctor. May I?
MISS MCGUIRE: ( to Bock ) Doctor, did you ask the head nurse on the eighth floor to let you know when a Miss Drummond got there?
BOCK: MISS MCGUIRE
MISS MCGUIRE: Well, she just got there.
BOCK: Thank you.
MRS. CHRISTIE: ( on phone ) Oh, dear me, Dorothy. I better get right down there directly. Have you called the O.O.D.? And you better call Dr. Gilley. And you better call Mr. Sloan. Yes, I'll be down ( hangs up; to Bock ) I'm very sorry, Doctor, but there's a real nasty one in the O.R. They've just operated on the wrong patient.
MRS. KIMBALL: ( on phone ) .well, I don't understand, is she back in her room? When did she get back to her room? Who brought her ( she stares at Hitchcock ) She's back in her room.
HITCHCOCK: MRS. KIMBALL ( calls to a nurse passing )
MRS. KIMBALL: Mrs. Mangafranni, the woman who was supposed to have been operated on. Are they still working on that woman in Three?
NURSE: MRS. KIMBALL ( back on phone )
MRS. KIMBALL: ( back on phone ) I'm sorry, Mrs. Fried, would you say that again?. Well, nobody in this office sent her back up. Well, all right, Mrs. Fried, I'll have to call you back.
MRS. KIMBALL: Did any of you take a woman named Mangafranni out of the Holding Room back up to Holly Five around ten
MRS. CHRISTIE: ( to Hitchcock in the doorway ) What happened?
MRS. KIMBALL: ( to Mrs. Christie ) I don't know what happened. A patient named Mangafranni was scheduled for a hysterectomy at ten o'clock Dr. Mallory. I talked to Sylvia in the Holding Room who admitted her, so she was here. And now I just spoke to Mrs. Fried on Holly Five, and she says an orderly brought Mrs. Mangafranni back to her room about twenty minutes ago. Now Mrs. Mangafranni is in her room sleeping.
MRS. CHRISTIE: Well, who's the woman in the operating I don't know.
MRS. KIMBALL: I don't know.
MRS. CHRISTIE: Is she dead?
MRS. KIMBALL: Well, they had to open her up, and that's not good.
HITCHCOCK: I better get Mr. Mead.
BLACK PANTHER: .abortion clinic! That's genocide, baby! You're just killing off blacks! We consider proliferation elemental to the class struggle!
SUNDSTROM: ( who has lost his cool altogether and is screaming right along with everyone else ) .for God's sake! We've got eleven people in these buildings, and we've got to get them out of there! We can rectify the injustices of the world tomorrow, but right now, for God's sake, can we get those people out of those buildings? Will you people please listen to me? Will you people please shut up and listen to me? Will you people please call a halt to this participatory democracy and address ourselves to the immediate
MILTON MEAD: How long ago did this happen?
HITCHCOCK: About half an hour.
MILTON MEAD: Have you called the Medical Examiner?
HITCHCOCK: Not yet.
MILTON MEAD: Well, you'd better do that now. And you better call the precinct station house as well.
DR. CHU: Good morning.
MRS. CHRISTIE: Good morning, Doctor.
DR. CHU: This is really something, isn't it? I thought she looked a little different when they brought her in. I even said to one of the nurses, "She looks a little younger without her dentures." I'd only talked to her half an hour before.
MRS. CHRISTIE: Does anybody know who she is?
MRS. CHRISTIE: ( to Mrs. Kimball, examining the chart dangling from the operating table ) What's her chart say?
CIRCULATING RESIDENT: Her chart says Mangafranni. Her bracelet says Mangafranni. The only thing that isn't Mangafranni is the
DR. MALLORY: Jesus H. Christ! I've been chopping out three uteruses a day for twenty years, and is it too much to expect for you people to bring in the right goddam Jesus Christ uterus?!
DR. CHU: I had just been talking to her in the Holding Room. She was perfectly fine. A little drowsy. I thought it was funny that when they brought her in, she was out cold.
DR. MALLORY: ( shuffling around in aimless circles ) Jesus H. Kee-rist!
MRS. CHRISTIE: Well, we'll just all have to stay here until Mr. Mead or someone from the O.O.D. comes back.
DR. MALLORY: Well, I'm not taking the rap for this! I've already got one malpractice suit pending, and I'm not taking the rap for this one!
BOCK: Look, you're not going. I love you, and I'm not going to let you go.
BOCK: Come on, let's start putting your father's things back. He's staying I'll find an apartment somewhere. I'm staying in a filthy little hotel room. We can't use that.
BARBARA: I can't make it here, Herb. I'll crack up. I cracked up once already. One week here, and I'd be running naked through the streets screaming again. I can retain my sanity only in a simple society.
BOCK: For God's sake, Barbara, you can't seriously see me living in a grass shack hunting jackrabbits for dinner? Be sensible for God's sake.
BARBARA: I am being sensible. What is it you're so afraid of leaving here? Your plastic home? Your conditioned air? Your synthetic clothes? Your instant food? I'm offering you green silence and solitude, the natural order of things. Mostly, I'm offering me. I think we're beautiful, Herb.
BOCK: ( utterly in love ) You make it sound almost plausible.
BARBARA: I don't know why you even hesitate. What's holding you here? Is it your No, that's all over. I suppose if I'm married to anything, it's this hospital. It's been my whole life. I just can't walk out on it as if it never mattered. I'm middle-class. Among us middle-class, love doesn't triumph over all. Responsibility Herb, don't ask me to stay here with you, because I love you, and I will. And we'll both be destroyed.
BOCK: No, that's all over. I suppose if I'm married to anything, it's this hospital. It's been my whole life. I just can't walk out on it as if it never mattered. I'm middle-class. Among us middle-class, love doesn't triumph over all. Responsibility Herb, don't ask me to stay here with you, because I love you, and I will. And we'll both be destroyed.
BARBARA: Herb, don't ask me to stay here with you, because I love you, and I will. And we'll both be destroyed.
BARBARA: I've got the bill here to pay yet.
BOCK: I'll come with you.
LAGERMAN: Herb, you asked me to find that dialysis nurse.
BOCK: What dialysis nurse?
BARBARA: I'll go pay the bill.
LAGERMAN: The one who goofed on your patient,
LAGERMAN: Well, her name is Theresa Campanella, but you are not going to believe this, Herb. She died on the operating table in O. R. Three about an hour
BOCK: What do you mean, she died on the operating table in O.R. Three?
BOCK: You mean she was the one?
LAGERMAN: That's the one. I just identified What the hell's going on around here? Every time I try to find somebody in this hospital, they either died of a heart attack in Emergency or of anesthesia shock in an operating
BOCK: What the hell's going on around here? Every time I try to find somebody in this hospital, they either died of a heart attack in Emergency or of anesthesia shock in an operating
THE ELEVATOR: Two or three people besides the elevator operator are there, as well as a patient on a stretcher and an orderly.
LAGERMAN: Listen, I just came from the O.R. They're trying to find a Dr. Schaefer. Don't you have a kid named Schaefer in your service?
BOCK: ( scowls, mutters ) I had a Schaefer. He died yesterday of an overdose of insulin. What do they want Schaefer for?
LAGERMAN: The Holding Room nurse says there was a Dr. Schaefer hanging around the Holding Room. It wouldn't have been your Schaefer anyway. The nurse says it was senior staff, a middle- aged man.
BOCK: There's no senior staff named Schaefer in this hospital.
LAGERMAN: I told them that. I said, I don't know any senior staff around here named Schaefer. They've got detectives down there, everything. It's a whole big investigation.
ROOM 806: William Mead, sedated and apparently zonked out cold, is being transferred from a stretcher back into bed by an O.R. orderly and nurse's aid. Bock rolls back the curtains around Drummond's bed revealing the comatose patient, his face sculptured against the white pillow, an I.V. tube in his right arm, a catheter projecting from under the sheet. Bock lowers the protective railing, leans in, takes the man's pulse on his neck, raises one closed eyelid, then the other. The pupils stare vacuously back at him; the eyelids drop closed as soon as they are released. In the background, the orderly and aid finish tucking in William Mead and exit, wheeling their creaking stretcher out. The room is shockingly silent. Bock goes to the window and frowns in thought. HOLD ACROSS the patient Drummond, on Bock in the background at the window with his back to us. Suddenly, Drummond's eyes open. He lies rigid, his eyes staring dementedly into the air above him. Slowly, his left hand reaches out and carefully withdraws the catheter from his bladder, lays it on the white sheet beside him, and silently reaches over to withdraw the I.V. needle from his right arm. He lets the needle dangle, dripping onto the bed. Carefully, he twists out from under his sheet, swings his legs over the side of the bed and sits up. REVERSE ACROSS Bock at the window, pondering. With a swift lash of movement, the double tubes of a stethoscope are whipped over his head and tightened around his throat.
DRUMMOND: ( mad as a hatter ) I am the Fool for Christ and the Paraclete of Caborca.
BARBARA'S VOICE: ( off-screen ) For heaven's sake, Dad! What the hell's going on? ( annoyed ) We all thought you were at Death's Door! What're you doing out of bed?
BARBARA: ( annoyed ) We all thought you were at Death's Door! What're you doing out of bed?
BARBARA: ( to Bock ) What happened? Did he say anything to you?
BOCK: ( sufficiently recovered ) As a matter of fact, he said, "I am the Fool for Christ and the Paraclete of Caborca." And you'd better close the door, because if he's going to tell everyone who walks in here he's the Fool for Christ and the Paraclete of Caborca, they'll put us all away. He's already killed two doctors and one nurse.
DRUMMOND: I am the wrath of the lamb and the angel of the bottomless pit.
BARBARA: What do you mean he killed two doctors and a nurse?
BOCK: I mean, he's killed two doctors and a nurse! And he just tried to kill me! He has something against doctors. Somehow he got hold of a thousand units of insulin and put it in Dr. Schaefer's intravenous solution. And somehow he got Dr. Ives to die of a heart attack in the middle of the Emergency Room. And somehow he got a dialysis nurse named Campanella to die of anesthesia shock on an operating table! He's been running around the hospital wearing Dr. Schaefer's uniform. Right now, they're looking all over the place for this mysterious Dr. Schaefer. I know this all sounds as grotesque to you as it does to me, but you can see for yourself your father is not the helpless comatose patient we thought he was. Don't look at me like I'm the one who's crazy. Ask your crazy father!
DRUMMOND: I was merely an instrument of God. I killed no one. They all three died by their own hands, ritual victims of their own institutions, murdered by irony, an eye for an eye, biblical retribution. Schaefer was first, you see, because he killed God. God was admitted to this hospital last Monday under the name of Guernsey.
DRUMMOND: ( off-screen ) I was instantly aware of a divine
DRUMMOND: ( off-screen ) I was convinced this porcelain old man was, in fact, an Angel of the
DRUMMOND: ( off-screen ) .perhaps even Christ Himself.
DRUMMOND: ( off-screen ) Our Savior was, it seems, suffering from emphysema.
DRUMMOND: ( off-screen ) He was relentlessly subjected to the benefits of modern medicine. He was misdiagnosed, mismedicated, and put into shock by Dr. Schaefer; raced off to Intensive Care, where the resident compounded the blunder and induced a coma. I can tell you with authority that God is indeed dead. He died last Monday under the name of Guernsey.
DRUMMOND: ( off-screen ) A few hours later, he appeared to me in a revelation.
GUERNSEY: ( softly ) Rise up, Drummond. You are dead, now you are restored.
GUERNSEY: Those who killed you and those who killed me will die in our place. You are the Paraclete of Caborca, the wrath of the lamb. The angel of the bottomless pit.
GUERNSEY: In this fashion has it been revealed to you.
GUERNSEY: ( thunders out ) The age is closed! The end is at hand! The seal is broken! ( off-screen ) Well! Not quite the burning bush perhaps but prodigal enough for me. I was to avenge the death of God and my own brutalization. I was to kill Doctors Schaefer, Ives and Welbeck and the dialysis nurse Miss Campanella, whose negligence caused my coma.
DRUMMOND: ( off-screen ) Well! Not quite the burning bush perhaps but prodigal enough for me. I was to avenge the death of God and my own brutalization. I was to kill Doctors Schaefer, Ives and Welbeck and the dialysis nurse Miss Campanella, whose negligence caused my coma.
DRUMMOND: ( off-screen ) I awaited a further sign from God, which was given to me later that evening. Dr. Schaefer, it seems, had arranged an assignation with a girl from the hematology lab named Sheila.
SCHAEFER: ( on phone ) Hey Sheila, this is Howard, Sheila. Hey listen, I got us a bed for tonight. A real, honest-to-god bed.
SHEILA: Boy, I sure hope nobody walks in.
SHEILA: What's this in your pocket?
SCHAEFER: That's my insulin. Put it back.
SHEILA: What do you take insulin for? Diabetes? I didn't know you were a It ain't contagious, don't worry about it.
SCHAEFER: It ain't contagious, don't worry about it.
ROOM 806: Dark, hushed. Schaefer's girl is leaving; she tiptoes to the door, peeks out. Apparently, the coast is clear. She quickly slips out.
BOCK: And you put Schaefer's insulin into the I.V. jar.
DRUMMOND: Yes. And then a second nurse came and plugged the I.V. jar into Schaefer. God clearly intended a measure of irony here. The hospital was to do all the killing for me. All I need do was arrange for the doctors to become patients in their own hospital. Accordingly, the next morning, I set out for Dr. Ives. I put on Dr. Schaefer's uniform, pinched some digoxine from the pharmacy and a sandbag from a utility cart, and found my way to Dr. Ives' laboratory. I coshed him with the sandbag, gave him a massive shot of the digoxine. This, you see, brought on an instant condition of cardiac arrhythmia. When he came to, I brought him down to the Emergency Room.
DRUMMOND: This is Dr. Ives. He's in the Nephrology Lab. I was in there a little while ago, and he was suddenly taken ill, and I thought I'd better get him over here right away.
DRUMMOND: ( off-screen ) He had at that time perhaps an hour to live. Prompt treatment would have saved his life.
DRUMMOND: ( voice-off ) As a staff doctor, he was seen without ( voice-off ) His vital signs were taken, an
DRUMMOND: ( voice-off ) His vital signs were taken, an
DRUMMOND: ( voice-off ) .which revealed occasional ventricular premature contractions. An intern took his history.
DRUMMOND: ( voice-off ) .and then he was promptly.
DRUMMOND: ( voice-off ) .simply. forgotten to death. Simply mislaid.
DRUMMOND: ( voice-off ) .mislaid among the broken wrists, the chest pains, scalp lacerations, the man whose fingers were crushed in a taxi door, the infant with the skin rash, the child swiped by a car, the old lady mugged in the subway, the derelict beaten by sailors, the teenage suicide, the paranoids, drunks, asthmatics, the rapes, the septic abortions, the overdosed addicts.
AMBULANCE ATTENDANTS: ( shouting ) Not breathing! Not breathing!
INTERN: ( instructing attendant with Mitgang ) Better put him in the Holding Room.
MISS ARONOVICI: ( with the seventeen- year-old girl ) She's taking a little pulse.
DR. SPEZIO: ( to triage nurse ) Get an anesthesiologist, one-five-
DRUMMOND: ( off-screen ) .the fractures, infarcts, hemorrhages, concussions, boils, abrasions, the colonic cancers, the cardiac arrests the whole wounded madhouse of our times.
MAN'S VOICE: ( off-screen ) I wonder if I could have a minute of your time, Doctor. I am the fool for Christ and the Paraclete of Caborca.
DRUMMOND: I am the fool for Christ and the Paraclete of Caborca.
NAMELESS MAN: Well, it's an honor and a privilege, Doctor. I've been here ten minutes, I can't seem to get anybody to help me. I'm suffering from some sort of amnesia. I can't remember my name. As a matter of fact, it's pretty screwy. I got mugged. Two hours ago, walking out of a coffee shop on Fifty- Seventh Street and Second Avenue, eight o'clock in the morning, broad daylight, I got mugged. A sixteen- year-old girl walks up to me, shows me a knife about a yard long and says, "Give me your wallet." I thought she was kidding. I mean there's hundreds of people walking right by. Well, she wasn't kidding. "Listen," I said, "all I got's about twenty bucks." So she takes the wallet anyway. So I said, "How about leaving me my identification?" I mean, I had my driver's license, my Diner's Club, my credit cards. But she took them all, the whole damn wallet, credit cards, everything. So I stopped some guy, I said, "Hey, you see that girl there, walking away?" He says, "Yeah." I said, "She just stole my wallet, credit cards and everything." He says, "Well, that's what they want, the credit cards." So I started looking for a cop. I mean, go find a cop, right? Well, I finally find a cop. The girl's halfway to South America by now, probably bought the ticket with my credit cards. So the cop says, "What's your name?" And you want to know something? I couldn't think of my name. The girl took all my identification, you know what I mean? She took all my credit cards. So I said, "You know this is screwy. I can't think of my name." So he took me to the station house. The sergeant says, "What's your name?" I said, "I don't know! She took all my credit cards!" So they took me down here. So what do you think, Doctor? I'm nuts, right? I finally flipped.
MRS. CUSHING: Who's number 7-6-8-0-2-S? Is there anybody here who is that number?
DRUMMOND: ( off-screen ) In this way was it revealed to me the manner of Nurse Campanella's death. She was to die of the great American plague vestigial identity.
DRUMMOND: So last night, I coshed Miss Campanella with a sandbag, sedated her with thorazine, shaved her, prepped her, and parked her in a corridor of the X-Ray Department for five hours.
BOCK: Why X-Ray?
DRUMMOND: Well, at X-Ray, a sedated body lying around unattended for five hours wouldn't seem unusual.
BOCK: Of course.
DRUMMOND: Her operation that is to say, Mrs. Mangafranni's operation was not scheduled until nine-thirty. So at nine-fifteen this morning, I rang for my nurse.
BOCK: You rang for your nurse?
DRUMMOND: To insure one full hour of uninterrupted privacy.
BOCK: Oh yes.
DRUMMOND: I got up, wheeled Miss Campanella off to the operating rooms, replaced her bed with Mrs. Mangafranni's, exchanged charts and identity bracelets. She died officially of anesthesia shock. But, in point of fact, she died because she was wearing another woman's identity.
BARBARA: ( to Bock ) God, what do we do now? Let me take him back to Mexico. It's a simple world there. If you turn him in, they'll just cage him in the Rockland State Hospital for the Criminally Insane. Let me take him back, Herb.
BOCK: Are you kidding? We'll both take him. I'm going with you! Get him dressed. We're getting out of here before the police put us all in Rockland State.
DRUMMOND: I haven't finished my work here. I have this Welbeck to dispose of. I am the angel of the bottomless pit and the wrath of the lamb.
BARBARA: Oh dear, he's having another
BOCK: Look, that ambulance must be here by now. You go down and get them. I'll give him a shot of something to knock him out. We'll take him to the airport in the ambulance.
DRUMMOND: You're hallucinating again.
MRS. DONOVAN: .Edwards never showed up. I'm short- staffed as hell. It's just me and Felicia. It's like Sunday. Nobody's I'll be at lunch.
DR. BIEGELMAN: I'll be at lunch.
MRS. DONOVAN: Yeah, you gotta send me somebody. Oh yeah?
MEAD: We'll be in Eight-O-Six.
MRS. DONOVAN: ( chuckles into phone ) .then what did she say?
WELBECK: ( to Mrs. Donovan ) I'm Dr. Welbeck. I have a patient on this floor named Drummond, and I'd like to see his chart.
MRS. DONOVAN: I'll call you back.
WELBECK: Oh, Dr. Bock. Can I have a few minutes of your time, sir?
BOCK: He starts to pass Mrs. Donovan and would continue, but Welbeck lays a restraining hand on his arm.
WELBECK: Dr. Gilley tells me you're the one who initiated these proceedings against me.
BOCK: I'm busy, Welbeck.
WELBECK: I'd like to know what you have against You turned up half-stoned for a simple nephrectomy eight days ago, botched it, put the patient into failure and damn near killed him. Then, pausing only to send in your bill, you flew off on the wings of man to an island of sun in Montego Bay. This is the third time in two years we've had to patch up your patients; the other two died. You're greedy, unfeeling, inept, indifferent, self-inflating and unconscionably profitable. Aside from that, I have nothing against you. I'm sure you play a hell of a game of golf. What else do you want to know?
BOCK: You turned up half-stoned for a simple nephrectomy eight days ago, botched it, put the patient into failure and damn near killed him. Then, pausing only to send in your bill, you flew off on the wings of man to an island of sun in Montego Bay. This is the third time in two years we've had to patch up your patients; the other two died. You're greedy, unfeeling, inept, indifferent, self-inflating and unconscionably profitable. Aside from that, I have nothing against you. I'm sure you play a hell of a game of golf. What else do you want to know?
WELBECK: Excuse me for a moment, Doctor. This is Dr. Welbeck. Were you paging How much do you make a year, Bock? For a guy who makes a lousy forty, fifty grand. Hello, Arthur, I understand you've been trying to reach me all morning.
ROOM 806: .which he enters. He is startled to find Milton Mead and Hitchcock leaning over William Mead, who is up on one elbow and in a state.
WILLIAM MEAD: I'm telling you, Milton, he pulls out all the wires and the tubes, and he gets up and puts on a doctor's uniform, and he goes out, and he murders doctors! He just went out ten seconds before you came in! And I'll tell you something else about this crazy place you got here! There was a naked Indian in here last night doing a war dance! That's the kind of crazy place you're running here, Milton! You got to get me out of here, Milton. This is a crazy place, Milton!
WILLIAM MEAD: And I'll tell you something else about this crazy place you got here! There was a naked Indian in here last night doing a war dance! That's the kind of crazy place you're running here, Milton! You got to get me out of here, Milton. This is a crazy place, Milton!
WILLIAM MEAD: ( appealing to Bock ) I wake up last night, there's a goddam Indian in here, a naked Indian! What kind of hospital is this?
MILTON MEAD: ( on phone ) This is Mr. Mead, are you paging me?
WILLIAM MEAD: A couple of hours later I wake up again, and the guy in that bed there is getting out of the bed.
MILTON MEAD: ( to Hitchcock ) Are the police still in the building?
HITCHCOCK: MILTON MEAD
MILTON MEAD: You'd better get them up here. Yes.
WILLIAM MEAD: All day long, he lays there like a dead man. All of a sudden, in the middle of the night, he gets out of bed! I thought I was going crazy!
MILTON MEAD: ( on phone ) Yes, this is Mead. Oh, dear. You know what he says to me? He says, you're hallucinating. Listen, I just saw a naked Indian. Now, I'm seeing a ghost. I got to figure he's right, I'm hallucinating, right?
WILLIAM MEAD: You know what he says to me? He says, you're hallucinating. Listen, I just saw a naked Indian. Now, I'm seeing a ghost. I got to figure he's right, I'm hallucinating, right?
MILTON MEAD: I'll be down directly. Never rains but it pours. A fire just broke out in one of those condemned buildings. The squatters in the building came out. The police tried to arrest them and, apparently, the situation has erupted into a I'm sure you're wondering what this is all about, Herb.
WILLIAM MEAD: You're not going to leave me alone in this crazy place, Milton!
MILTON MEAD: ( at the door with Bock ) Mr. Hitchcock is staying with you. ( to Hitchcock ) You better call the cops, Tom.
WILLIAM MEAD: Milton! Milton! Milton!!!
MILTON MEAD: I haven't the time now, and I'm not even going to try to tell you this curious story my brother just told me. I'll fill you in on it at lunch some time.
MILTON MEAD: ( rushes not to miss the elevator ) Hold it!
BARBARA: The ambulance is here.
BOCK: Yeah, but your father isn't. He's disappeared. He put on Schaefer's uniform and has gone out to do God's work, presumably the murder of Dr. Welbeck. Except, that fellow on the phone over there is Dr. Welbeck.
WELBECK: ( in background on phone ) Oh my God, Arthur! What are you talking about? Have you talked to Dr. Hogan about this?
BOCK: And, on top of everything else, the other patient in your father's room overheard his whole confession and just told the Chief Administrator of the hospital. They're sending for the cops.
WELBECK: ( almost apoplectic on phone ) Oh, my God, Arthur. Well, who held title? Do the underwriters know about this yet?. Oh my God! Arthur, what're you waiting for? Arrest the son of a bitch! Turn him in!. Oh my God! When?. Of course, Arthur, call me right back. I'm at the Holly Pavilion, Eighth Floor. Please! Right
BOCK: Are you all right, Welbeck?
WELBECK: All right?! That son of a bitch is trying to wipe me out! My partner, the eminent orthopedic surgeon, Dr. Noel Hogan, is a miserable thief. And he's trying to wipe me out!
MRS. DONOVAN: ( extending a chart ) Mr. Drummond's chart, Doctor.
WELBECK: ( angrily seizes the chart ) What room is it?
MRS. DONOVAN: I'm expecting a phone call. Put it straight through to me in that room.
WELBECK: I'm expecting a phone call. Put it straight through to me in that room.
WELBECK: The son of a bitch has been draining the company with phony purchase orders on another company, of which, it now turns out, his wife is the principal stockholder! Transparent fraud! I'll send him up for twenty years!
WELBECK: Well, Drummond, you don't seem that much the worse for the wear. Would you mind using some other phone? I'm expecting an important call.
WELBECK: ( to Hitchcock ) Would you mind using some other phone? I'm expecting an important call.
WILLIAM MEAD: What is this? Who. who is this Yes, well, I'll be at the Nurses' Desk, Sergeant. It would be futile for me to try to explain this to you over the phone.
HITCHCOCK: ( on phone ) Yes, well, I'll be at the Nurses' Desk, Sergeant. It would be futile for me to try to explain this to you over the phone.
WELBECK: ( leafing through Drummond's chart ) You've got a bit of fever, Drummond, but you're coming along very well.
WILLIAM MEAD: I'm not Drummond, you monkey! Drummond's the other bed! That's mine. It's Welbeck here. Yes, Arthur, go
WELBECK: That's mine. It's Welbeck here. Yes, Arthur, go
WILLIAM MEAD: I'm getting out of this nuthouse!
BOCK: ( pushing him gently back ) All right, take it easy, Mr. Mead.
WILLIAM MEAD: I came in here just to get a lousy polyp cut out.
WELBECK: ( on phone ) Oh, my God, what do you mean? How many transactions were there? Bu. but Arthur, I. I borrowed against that stock! I'm in the hole for over three hundred thousand!.
WILLIAM MEAD: ( appealing to the gods ) I'm a sick man! I'm supposed to have peace and quiet!
WELBECK: ( on phone and apoplectic ) What do you mean, Brazil?! I just spoke to Hogan's office yesterday, and they just told me.
WELBECK: I'm wiped out. The S.E.C. has suspended trading in my stock!
BOCK: ( on phone ) Cardiac arrest, Holly Eight.
BARBARA: We have an emergency here.
BOCK: ( rips off Welbeck's natty jacket ) Breathe him.
P.A. SYSTEM: ( off-screen ) C.A.C. Holly Eight. Please clear all
MRS. DONOVAN: Where's Biegelman?
CHANDLER: He went to lunch.
MRS. DONOVAN: Natch. Get that other bed out of
BARBARA: ( to Nurse Chile as others begin moving William Mead's bed out of the room ) Give him an ambu bag and an airway.
VOICE: ( off-screen ) What's been happening?
CHANDLER: ( to Seventh Floor Nursing Supervisor just outside door ) Watch it.
P.A. SYSTEM: ( off-screen ) C.A.C. Holly Eight. Please clear all
DR. MORSE: In here?
MRS. DONOVAN: She follows Morse in as, from the lobby corner, two technicians come racing a max cart and an I.V. stand before them. Behind them, a bewildered Hitchcock moves into view, trying to determine what's going on.
HITCHCOCK: ( to Intern Chandler ) Who is it?
P.A. SYSTEM: ( off-screen ) Dr. Robert Jackson.
CHANDLER: One of the patients had a cardiac
ROOM 806: Bock still massages, sweating bullets by now. Barbara works the ambu bag. Dr. Morse is feeling Welbeck's groin for his femoral pulse.
DR. MORSE: What do you have, Dr. Bock?
BOCK: Total cardiac arrest.
P.A. SYSTEM: ( off-screen ) Dr. Rigby. Dr. Rigby. Dr. Lilac.
DR. MORSE: How long has he been like this?
BOCK: About a minute. No pulse, no heartbeat, no respiration.
DR. LOOMIS: All right, I'll take over.
BOCK: Endotrachial tube.
DONOVAN: ( rushing in background with others ) I'm sorry, Doctor, but we have another emergency in 823.
CHANDLER: Endotrachial tube.
DR. LOOMIS: Shall we get him up on the cart?
DR. MORSE: Drs. Loomis, Bock and Morse struggle to lift the the nearly naked dead weight of Dr. Welbeck up from the floor and onto the max cart. Dr. Morse has picked up Drummond's chart from the bed where Welbeck had left it.
DR. MORSE: All right, who is this patient? What's the story on this patient? Is this his chart, Dr. Bock?
DR. MORSE: Is this his chart, Dr. Bock?
DR. MORSE: What's his name? Drummond?
BOCK: Yes, his name's Drummond. That's his
DR. MORSE: ( studying the chart ) Oh Christ, the poor son of a bitch just had a nephrectomy a week ago.
HITCHCOCK: Was it Drummond?
MRS. DONOVAN: Who else would it be?
ROOM 806: DR. MORSE ( off-screen )
DR. MORSE: ( off-screen ) Pick him up. Put him on it. Stop the
DR. MORSE: Ventricular fibrillation. Get me the paddles. Push another amp of bicarb.
DR. MORSE: Set it for two hundred.
NURSE: ( off-screen ) That's two hundred.
DR. MORSE: Everybody bock away.
DR. MORSE: ( off-screen )
DR. MORSE: ( in background ) Did he convert?
DR. LOOMIS: ( in background ) No, he's still fibrillating.
DR. MORSE: ( in background ) Let's go to four hundred.
BARBARA: ( sotto voce to Bock ) What do we do now?
NURSING SUPERVISOR: ( off-screen ) It's four hundred.
DR. MORSE: ( off-screen ) Everybody back One-two-three.
DR. MORSE: ( off-screen ) That didn't work either.
DR. MORSE: ( off-screen ) All right. Let me have a c.c. of Adrenaline and intercardiac needle.
DR. MORSE: ( off-screen ) Stop the massage. Ventricular fibrillation. Put another amp of bicarb. Two hundred.
DRUMMOND: ( barely audible above the traffic rumbling heedlessly around him ) Let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains, for the age is closed, the season of the seventh seal is at
ROOM 806: Bock and Barbara slip through doctors and nurses, heading for the door.
DR. MORSE: Hang isopril, two in five hundred. Let's take one more crack with the paddles. Everybody back off the cart.
HITCHCOCK: Is he dead?
BOCK: They can't get him out of fib. I don't think he'll make it.
HITCHCOCK: Thank God. This should close the case, Sergeant.
LEADER: Everybody take it easy! Nobody's going to be hurt! We just want the
SHOUTING CROWD: We want Sundstrom! We want Sundstrom! Community control! Community control! Hip-hip-Hippocrates! Up with service! Down with fees!
SUNDSTROM: You people want to see me?
FIRST MILITANT: Yeah, baby, we want to see you.
SECOND MILITANT: We're taking over this hospital, I've had it up to here. I'm not dealing with this kind of cheap Now look, man. Now wait a minute We're looking for a hostage!
SUNDSTROM: I've had it up to here. I'm not dealing with this kind of cheap Now look, man. Now wait a minute We're looking for a hostage!
LEADER: Now look, man. Now wait a minute We're looking for a hostage!
FIRST MILITANT: We're looking for a hostage!
LEADER: Fourteen people just got arrested for doing. Lookit, man, where's the TV camera?
MAN: Lookit, man, where's the TV camera?
LEADER: Would you be cool, man? Fourteen people got arrested for doing nothing but living in their homes, which you people threw them out of.
CROWD: Right on!
LEADER: So now we're going to arrest you. We're going to hold you hostage and we ain't letting you go un.
AMBLER: We, the members of the Doctors Liberation Committee indict this hospital for the criminal neglect of the community in which it is situated! We demand an immediate dissolution of the governing and executive boards.
SHOUT: What are you going to do about those fourteen ghetto people? I am not going to do anything. about anything.
SUNDSTROM: I am not going to do anything. about anything.
SHOUT: Yes, you are!
SUNDSTROM: By God, if you want to take over this hospital, you take it over!
SHOUTS: We will! Right on!
SUNDSTROM: You run it! I am finished! I quit! You run it! You pay the bills! You fight the city!
MILITANT: We will!
SUNDSTROM: You fight the state! You fight the unions. You fight the community! You. you think you can do a better job, you do it! Now I am finished! I quit! It's all yours! Quit! Quit!
CROWD: Quit! Quit!
DRUMMOND: Let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains, for the age is closed, the season of the seventh seal is at hand! The age is closed! The season of the seventh se.
BOCK: Dr. Welbeck is dead. They thought he was you.
DRUMMOND: Yes, I know. We must arrange to have his body shipped to my Apache village where we will bury him with full tribal rites. In a day or two, somebody'll ask, "Whatever happened to Dr. Welbeck?" And it will be assumed he absconded to Brazil to join his partner, the eminent orthopedic surgeon, Dr. Noel Hogan. Welbeck, too, was mislaid, overlooked, forgotten to death, you see.
BARBARA: ( taking her father around to the back ) We have to hurry, Dad.
BOCK: I'm not going. The hospital's coming apart. I can't walk out on it when it's coming apart. Somebody has to be responsible, Barbara. Everybody's hitting the road, running to the hills, running away. Somebody's got to be Kennedy Airport. You've got a two- thirty flight to make.
BOCK: You going back in?
SUNDSTROM: They make their way back toward.
SUNDSTROM: ( matter-of-factly ) It's like pissing in the wind, right,
BOCK: FADE OUT.
THE END: Writers : Paddy Chayefsky
