UNFORGETTABLE JUGGLER: Leonardo, che pazzo.
DA VINCI: ( silencing authority ) Basta vapore.
APPRENTICE TWO: Maestro, che meraviglia!
APPRENTICE THREE: Lei e' proprio fantastico!
DA VINCI: Lasciatemi, solo. Solo!
DA VINCI: L'ho fatto.
A HAWK: who is revealed to be flying over Sing Sing prison.
WISE GUARD: We're losing our biggest celebrity You're kidding, Petey the Paint Thinner Killer is getting paroled?
YOUNG GUARD: You're kidding, Petey the Paint Thinner Killer is getting paroled?
WISE GUARD: Not that slime, you Fizzhead. Hudson Hawk. The last of the great cat burglars.
THE BLOCK: The Wise Guard and the Young Guard rumble forward.
WISE GUARD: As a thief, Hawk was a poem. Iambic fucking pentameter. You know, Crime used to have a little class. A hundred reporters were here when he came in, now they're probably out covering some tired crack gang war.
HAWK: Remind me to fire my publicist.
YOUNG GUARD: Darn, these are for L-block.
YOUNG GUARD: - go back down to security and-
WISE GUARD: Guess this means, Hawk, you'll be able to let yourself back in.
HAWK: Never happen. Bet. Ten bucks.
HAWK: Oh, give this back to Petey in A block. Tell him it was a sweet gift, but I think he got some wrong ideas about our friendship.
YOUNG GUARD: The Paint Thinner Killer did this? I think you picked a good day to get out.
WISE GUARD: Hope I lose the bet. Have that cappuccino on me.
HAWK: ( flipping him the You got it. A double.
ANTONY: Welcome back, buddy ol' pal. We've got a proposition.
HAWK: Answer's no, not even if you bathe. Cesar Mario, Antony Mario, how's the "Family?" Kill any monkeys lately?
CESAR: How many times do I have to say it? I didn't put the hit on Little Eddie. Never had anything against that kooky chimp. I actually found him, "endearing."
HAWK: Sure. Face down. Two endearing shots to the back of the head. That's your mark, man. What did Little Eddie ever do to.
CESAR: You're hitting Rutherford's Auction House. Easy as my brother's wife. Directions are in the bag. Just open the seventh floor safe and take out the Or you cut off my thingie. Directions even your brother would understand.
HAWK: Or you cut off my thingie. Directions even your brother would understand.
ANTONY: ( defensively ) Yeah, directions even I could Hawk, you're a great thief. Got set up, did some time, nothing to be ashamed of. Don't give me a sonata about you always just really wanted to settle down, open a hardware Store and sell If the Mario brothers weren't Jersey's third largest family, I'd say kiss my ass. But considering your status, I'll say slurp my butt.
CESAR: Hawk, you're a great thief. Got set up, did some time, nothing to be ashamed of. Don't give me a sonata about you always just really wanted to settle down, open a hardware Store and sell If the Mario brothers weren't Jersey's third largest family, I'd say kiss my ass. But considering your status, I'll say slurp my butt.
HAWK: If the Mario brothers weren't Jersey's third largest family, I'd say kiss my ass. But considering your status, I'll say slurp my butt.
CESAR: What's your favorite sport, Hawk?
HAWK: Baseball, why?
HAWK: I meant, ping pong. Listen, I'd rather go back in than whore for Oh, I need to borrow ten dollars.
HAWK: Help? Police?
CESAR: ( unfazed ) You need some time to think. That's cool, but next time, I'm not going to say "Please."
HAWK: I don't believe this. I've been out forty seconds.
ALEX: That's the first thing I did. Smooch the ground and taste the freedom. Sorry I was late. Miss Your timing, and your shoes, are impeccable. Good to see you, Alex, been having a lousy day.
HAWK: ( getting up ) Your timing, and your shoes, are impeccable. Good to see you, Alex, been having a lousy day.
ALEX: Lousy day? The man's getting out of prison and he's having a lousy day. What, you missing out on the Cell Block Water Ballet pageant? Believe me, it's
ALEX: Where's the kiss? No tongue this time, I promise.
HAWK: Looks like you've been expanding Don't say it, Hawkins. I'm incredibly sensitive about my fucking figure.
ALEX: Don't say it, Hawkins. I'm incredibly sensitive about my fucking figure.
HAWK: My next word was gonna be "consciousness." Swear to God.
HAWK: That's your definition of "Hard?"
ALEX: Show off. Hey, boss tune. "Come Fly with Me."
HAWK: Three minutes, 51 seconds.
ALEX: Still do the puzzles, still know the running times of songs, and I'll bet you're still the best damn cat burg
HAWK: Not anymore. Now I'm the laziest damn cat burgI'm going to take it so straight that I won't tape a Mets game without the expressed written consent of the National Baseball League.
ALEX: Now that you're born again,what do you wanna do? Statue of Liberty? Entertain some ladies? Miss Saigon tix? Seduce some women? Play Nintendo? Bone some Come on, Alex, let's just get to Alex's. Your bar's the only place that's going to cheer me. God, I'd kill for a damn cappuccino. What the hell's a Oh man, you still got a thing for those unmasculine European coffees? Who's your buddy?
HAWK: Come on, Alex, let's just get to Alex's. Your bar's the only place that's going to cheer me. God, I'd kill for a damn cappuccino. What the hell's a Oh man, you still got a thing for those unmasculine European coffees? Who's your buddy?
ALEX: Oh man, you still got a thing for those unmasculine European coffees? Who's your buddy?
HAWK: The man knows, the man knows!
ALEX: So Mr. Coffee, what went down outside the prison?
HAWK: Oh, not much. Mario Brothers want me to do a job.
ALEX: Those dago-guinea-I can say this shit I'm Italian-wop Ah, had the perfect amount of foam. Just get me to the bar. It's the one good thing in my life that'll never change..
HAWK: Ah, had the perfect amount of foam. Just get me to the bar. It's the one good thing in my life that'll never change..
ALEX: I didn't know how to tell you. A couple brokers stopped in for Stoley Spritzers one night. Next thing I know Fast Track Digest votes us "Watering Hole of the Month." Now, I'm shopping for Aqua Salmon wallpaper.
HAWK: I read about these people in Newsweek. Where's all the regulars, Crazy Jeff Cava, the Todd sisters, Indian Joe? Where's Ed Kranepool's autograph? Captain Bob's steering wheel?
ALEX: Hey, get this irritable guy a cappuccino. I gotta go be a boss.
HAWK: This is Pizza? Reindeer Goat cheese? I admit, I've been known to go wild and order a Canadian Bacon in my time, but..
HAWK: Can you take a sunrise and sprinkle it with dew?
HAWK: The Candy Man can, Felix. You know, I thought this was a country where you could do any stupid thing you wanted; drive to work naked, make love to a V.C.R. Guess I'm wrong. Maybe that's why I became a serial arsonist.
GATES: Have a seat. Good to see you, buddy ol' pal.
HAWK: The pleasure's all yours, Officer
GATES' TABLE: Gates pillages a plate of spaghetti and meatballs with terrifying precision. Hawk tosses the badge onto the food. Gates eats around it.
GATES: Why do you show your parole officer such disrespect? Especially after I got you such a nice job.
HAWK: What job? The auction house, asshole. One night's work and you're free like no ex-con's ever been. No checking in with a shrink, no community service teaching retards how to play air hockey. It's a great deal, I can't lie.
GATES: The auction house, asshole. One night's work and you're free like no ex-con's ever been. No checking in with a shrink, no community service teaching retards how to play air hockey. It's a great deal, I can't lie.
HAWK: The only thing you can't do is get sex for free. I know I was in prison for like basically the 80's, but, call me daffy, aren't you supposed to stop me from committing crimes. You know, Book-em-Dano, Call-for-backup,
GATES: You wouldn't be out if it wasn't for me! I did dog and pony for you! You think they would have let you out after what you did, you told the board members they looked like the Three Stooges.
HAWK: How was I supposed to know they were women? Besides one of them was bald and kept saying
GATES: Remember that guy in the cell next to you who hung himself?
HAWK: Remember that shoe you lost.
GATES: Remember that shoe you lost.
HAWK: Uh, yeah. Cut to the chase.
GATES: One phone call and your shoe will become a piece of evidence and that suicide'll become a
HAWK: What else do you got under there . I don't want to be rude, but this is all pretty lame.
GATES: That's the beauty. It's bullshit, but I can make it stick because I'm a good guy parole officer and you re a bad guy who's about to find out that there's a thin line between ex-con and escape con.
ALEX: How is everything tonight, sir?
GATES: Beat it, Alex. You're a dinosaur.
HAWK: Alex, did you know this ape was going to be here.
ALEX: Sure. That's why his meatballs are made out of marinated Chuck You're full of shit.
GATES: ( mouthful ) You're full of shit.
ALEX: No, man, actually you are. Just add water and it makes its own gravy. Keeps your teeth healthy and your coat shiny.
ALEX: Yo Pandora, quit hummm-ing. look at this.
HAWK: Yo Pandora, quit hummm-ing. look at this.
HAWK: It's Captain Bob's steering wheel! Remember when the Captain...
ALEX: Hmmm, nasty little safe on the 7th.
HAWK: The safe's a Simpson 71. Last time I played the game, Simpson only had a 40.
ALEX: Just means it'll take you an extra 31 seconds to seduce. You re still the best, I know it.
HAWK: But you got three guards who. Shit, what am I doing? Where's the want ads? Gonna sell some Hey, I'm sorry, man. I'm putting out a fire with kerosene.
ALEX: Hey, I'm sorry, man. I'm putting out a fire with kerosene.
HAWK: This isn't funny. I'm not into this. I.
ALEX: There goes five seconds.My record's eighteen.
HAWK: You're not.LISTENING! I'm sorrGoddamn Mario Brothers. Goddamn Gates. Goddamn Rutherford Auction House. By the way, how many seconds?
HAWK: I'm sorrGoddamn Mario Brothers. Goddamn Gates. Goddamn Rutherford Auction House. By the way, how many seconds?
ALEX: Rutherford Auction. that name.
HAWK: Don't wet your diapers. I'll have to change them. "Witchcraft." What's the running time?
ALEX: Don't wet your diapers. I'll have to change them. "Witchcraft." What's the running time?
HAWK: 3:48. I can't get you involved, man. This is my sewage and. God, you love all this, don't you, you bastard. Haven't you ever heard of stamp collecting, or I'm in. Have you seen the public service announcements for Diabetes. We can ride horses, play LaCrosse, and knock off auction houses. I got a plan. You won't have to hail Cesar or Gates.
ALEX: I'm in. Have you seen the public service announcements for Diabetes. We can ride horses, play LaCrosse, and knock off auction houses. I got a plan. You won't have to hail Cesar or Gates.
HAWK: I'm a bum.
HAWK: Whoa, you better cut a bigger hole than that.
ALEX: Hey, you promised..Don't worry, I'm wearing my girdle.
HAWK: No need. Guards' station's right
ALEX: No need. Guards' station's right
ALEX: They record everything their video surveillance takes in.
HAWK: Yes, master-thief, I can see that. You said something about a plan.
ALEX: Am I boring you, smartass? Watch. A little rewind and re-wire action and the Guards are going to be watching a rerun and miss out on our exciting episode.
ALEX: You got about five minutes and 5:32. "Swinging on a Star."
HAWK: 5:32. "Swinging on a Star."
ALEX: You know they invented something while you were inside. Called a
HAWK: "A mule is an animal with long funny ears."
ALEX: "He kicks up at anything he
HAWK: "Or would you rather swing on a star, carry moonbeams home in a
POWER ROOM: Alex goes up to a Circuit Box and pulls down two large Switches. The soundtrack singers continue to warble.
POWER ROOM: Alex speedily hooks and rehooks the backs of the V.C.R.S. They now all have their PLAY buttons lit up.
ALEX: swing on a star, carry moonbeams.
HAWK: "Or would you rather be a fish?"
BIG STAN: ( moving back off ) Very funny.
HAWK: spits on the rubber cup of an electronic sensor, plugged into a Walkman, and affixes it to the safe above the THE FREIGHT ELEVATOR Alex is now packed into the freight elevator.
HAWK: ( lyric trouble ) "A fish is annuh nan na nan na
ALEX: "He can't write his name or read a book. To fool people is his only thought."
HAWK: ( remembering ) "And though he's slippery, he still gets caught."
AUCTION AUDITORIUM: Hawk ditches his accessories and swings the safe door Inside the safe, along with the "holy" Da Vinci music cue, is the clay equestrian model from Leonardo's Hawk belts out as he put it in the black canvas bag.
HAWK: "And all the monkeys aren't in the zoo."
ALEX: The song's over! Come on! "You could be swinging on a star."
HAWK: What am I doing here? There are so many things I wanna do that aren't this. Paint a lighthouse. Kiss a woman in Italy.
ALEX: ( more frantically ) "You could be swinging on a star."
HAWK: Paint a woman in a lighthouI don't want to steal a horse. Life is.
ALEX: ( DEADPAN ) "You could be swinging on a star." You couldn't have waited to see a psychiatrist. No, you had. Let's go down the freight elevator.
HAWK: Let's go down the freight elevator.
ALEX: Keep those ideas coming.
ALEX: I'm not as unpleasantly plump as that Guard am I.
HAWK: I can't even swim.
ALEX: Hell, the fall'll probably kill
GATES: Hudson Hawkins gets the chair of honor. How about a Gates-arita? I used real hot dogs.
HAWK: Weren't you the bartender at
CESAR: Good job, not pretty, but good.
HAWK: Ah, the mafia, the cops; do I know how to party or what?
GATES: All this trouble for a horsey. I may not know art, but I know what I like.
HAWK: ( to Dog picture ) You certainly do.
GATES: So when's that Sebastian-Cabot- Butlerhead getting here?
ALFRED: Any minute now, dear Mr. Gates.
GATES: Oh, sorry Jeeves. Gates-arita?
ALFRED: I'll pass. May I?
ALFRED: Ah, such craftsmanship. Leonardo Da Vinci's last commission for the Duke of Milan. Irreplaceable.
GATES: Hey, Mr. French, I'm delirious for you. Now where's my cut?
GATES: You son-of-a..I don't believe this! You come into my house!
GATES: I ought to take Big Ben and shove it up your limey blimey bunghole!
GATES: Like I said. Where's my cu-u-.
ALFRED: So much for his "cut." Excuse my dry British humor.
CESAR: ( rising ) Lovely work, Alfred, taking the Concorde back?
ALFRED: Indeed I am, Mr. Mario. I'm really racking up those frequent flyer points.
HAWK: I hate to interrrupt you two You know, I think Gates promised Hawk a cut, too..
ANTONY: You know, I think Gates promised Hawk a cut, too..
ALFRED: Ta ta, Hudson Hawk.
HAWK: ( breathless ) Too-do-loo, babe.
ALEX: Did I miss anything?
HAWK: Oh, not much. Gates just had his tonsils taken out. The hard way.
ALEX: Geez, Gates was killed. Who do we send the thank you note to?
HAWK: The Butler did it. Guy was a cross between Alistair Cook and a Cuisinart. Dude took Mr. Ed and humptied dumptied it over Gates's head. He said it was made by, get this, Ah yes, a rare Renaissance piece. Da Vinci's "Sforza," an equestrian model of a never executed statue. I consider it to be the prize of tonight's auction of objets d'equestrian. Horse things.
ALEX: ( professorial ) Ah yes, a rare Renaissance piece. Da Vinci's "Sforza," an equestrian model of a never executed statue. I consider it to be the prize of tonight's auction of objets d'equestrian. Horse things.
HAWK: Okay, you got me, Mr. PBS.
ALEX: ( holding up newspaper ) Morning edition. Seems two thieves "attempted" to steal it last night, but thanks to three "courageous" guards, it will be ready for tonight.
HAWK: "Attempted." At-tempt-ted! I'm not happy about having to steal that horse, but I do have my pride. Face it, when it comes to burglary, and sex, I..
HAWK: Boing. Uh, this I don t understand.
ALEX: Why try?
HAWK: ( hurdling the bar ) Because I'm tired of not understanding things. Cops, Mafia, and butlers forcing me to bust my ass to steal something, which it turns out I really didn't stealit's fucked up.
ALEX: ( pulling back newspaper ) You re not thinking of going to.
HAWK: Alex, my man, it's time to play a little offense. Where's your tux?
HAWK: All these years of attending auctions, I still get goosebumps. The paintings, the sculptures..the things that aren't really paintings or sculptures.
THE WOMAN: .. the pretentious vultures who don't even look up from their calculators to see what they're buying. Now that gives me goosebumps. Auctions are I couldn't agree more. Savages.
HAWK: I couldn't agree more. Savages.
AUCTION ENTRANCE: Big Stan, the hefty guard from the heist, enters the area wearing a blue ribbon.
AUCTION AREA: Big Stan is walking in back of the seated bidders: An oblivious Hawk in the foreground starts to scan VARIED BIDDER-TYPES, raising their paddles to babble out dollar figures; a GAUDY ROCK STAR and his GLOOMY-CHIC ENTOURAGE, A KING FAROUK-TYPE with a BORED TEENAGE AMERICAN HOOKER, and a scary NORDIC PRINCESS in a monocle and a tiara. THREE STANDING ASSISTANTS frantically man a table of phones set up down before the stage. One raises his A STYLISH FEMALE ASSISTANT takes out an impressive replica of the "Sforza" from the safe behind the podium and brings it to the Auctioneer. The crowd a-a-hs. Hawk laughs and shakes his head.
HAWK: ( re: Auctioneer ) Is looking like a constipated warthog a prerequisite to getting a job in the art world?
ANNA: ( rising, to Hawk ) Some of us warthogs are more constipated than others. Oh, the shit is going to hit the ( suddenly serene ) Fantastic. Perfection. The Vatican extends its jealousy to the lucky bidder.
HAWK: Oh, the shit is going to hit the Fantastic. Perfection. The Vatican extends its jealousy to the lucky bidder.
ANNA: ( suddenly serene ) Fantastic. Perfection. The Vatican extends its jealousy to the lucky bidder.
DARWIN MAYFLOWER: lOO million clams, Francesco!
MINERVA: Francesco, 100 million and one.
DARWIN: Outbid by my own wench, quelle Poor baby... Here, Bunny.
MINERVA: Poor baby... Here, Bunny.
ANNA: My God, that was bold of you, you didn't have to do that.
HAWK: Forget about itit was nothing anybody would have done the same thingIt's an impulse.
ANNA: No, I meant you didn't have to tackle me and rip my dress. A polite push, perhaps? A clear shout of "watch out, Anna" would have done nicely.
HAWK: Excuse me, Milady. I would have flown over and carried you up to a pink cloud, but I left my cape at the cleaners.
ANNA: ( "Hey, I was kidding" ) Thanks tough guy, thanks a lot. Why was the guard chasing you?
HAWK: ( Serious answer? Because Danger, Doc, is my middle. Saint Pete, hey I know, the whole cat burglar thing, it sounds bad, but I'll take the worst cloud you
HAWK: Saint Pete, hey I know, the whole cat burglar thing, it sounds bad, but I'll take the worst cloud you
CESAR: News flash. You're not in heaven. Yet. 30 seconds and counting, if you know what I'm saying. Couldn't just play along, could you.
HAWK: Pretty class way of covering your tracks. I think that auctioneer landed at La Guardia.
ANTONY: Subtlety was never one of our strong points.
HAWK: Neither's flossing.
THE GURNEY: Battered by wind and fear, Hawk clutches to the gurney and the sheet with a grit teeth stoneface. The sheet is torn from the gurney sending it rocketing off to the side on its own crazed volition. Hawk skis toward a TOLL BOOTH WITH A LARGE GATE-ARM.
HAWK: Life don't get much better than
TOLL BOOTH: The change ker-chunks into the basket and Hawk and the gurney JUST BARELY streak underneath the rising Gate-arm.
CESAR: Make him into Roadkill!
ANTONY: Yeah, run him down!
THE AMBULANCE: jackknifes over a stopped car and somersaults into a fiery ball. In the foreground, Hawk's gurney coasts down
HAWK: This is the worst night.
SNICKERS: When it rains, it pours. Name's Snickers. The plane leaves in 40.
ALMOND JOY: Almond Joy. I know, pretty silly. But it's better than when we first started out, our code names were Diseases. You don't know what it's like being called Clymidia for a year. Whoops, forgot..
BUTTERFINGER: My name's Butterfinger.
HAWK: No shit.
KAPLAN: Don't you just hate kids.
ALMOND JOY: George, you promised. No Old CIA/ New CIA jokes.
KAPLAN: I call them the MTV.I.A. Punks think Bay of Pigs is an herbal tea. They think the Cold War involves penguins and.
HAWK: Don't I know you.
KAPLAN: You just might. I'm the guy who tricked you into robbing a government installation and then had you sent to prison for it. At the time, I was bald with a beard, no moustache, and I had a different nose, so if you don't recognize me, I won't be offended.
HAWK: Bastard, you're going to need another nose! But I'm not the type of guy to hold a grudge.
HAWK: But I'm not the type of guy to hold a grudge.
KAPLAN: I used you as a diversion. while you were getting captured upstairs, I was shredding documents in the basement. Deep down, I guess I was just jealous. You were one incredible thief.
HAWK: To what do I owe the dishonor of a reunion, you centrally intelligent
KAPLAN: I Want to make things up to you. That's why I got you this gig, doll. Hawk, my name's George Kaplan and to quote the late, great Karen Carpenter, "We've only just begun."
HAWK: Three minutes, twenty-three seconds. If you think I'm doing Hush. My employer wants a meeting.
KAPLAN: Hush. My employer wants a meeting.
HAWK: Employer? The president?
KAPLAN: No, somebody powerful. Oh. Look. what's that up there?
HAWK: I'm supposed to fall for that?
KAPLAN: Shucks. Guess not.
HAWK: No. Way.
ALFRED: Welcome to Rome, sir.
HAWK: Yes way.
DARWIN: For those kind of wages, I could have built the factory in America! They're Vietnamese, can't we just give them more Bart Simpson shirts? I hear depressing news like this and I want to commit genocide! Alfred, hold my calls. So, Hawk! The Hawkster! What do you think of the vehicle?
HAWK: You could host American Bandstand in here. Why did you duck at the auction, asshole?
DARWIN: Because I didn't want to get hurt,
DARWIN: What can I tell you, I'm the villain. Initially it was a priority to keep a lot of buffers between you and me, but since most of them are dead now, I thought what the heck. Hawk, you come highly recommended. I would have done some things differently at the auction house, but hey, I want to be in business with you.
HAWK: My life is not some deal. I.
DARWIN: I'm sorry, I have to take this. Those are valid points though.
DARWIN: You better have a good excuse. You better have a better excuse! You are so weak! I'm only thankful your ancestors didn't settle America or else my name would be Running Brave or Vomiting Antelope.Really. Well, listen close, babe.
DARWIN: Shall we?
DARWIN: So Hawkasaurus, I won't mince Whatever. You own Boardwalk, you own Park Place, you own the four railroads. You think you're God. For all I know, you're probably right. I just wanted to have a damn cappuccino, maybe play some Nintendo after I find out what it is. Man, why didn't you just buy the horse? What am I saying, you did buy it.
HAWK: Whatever. You own Boardwalk, you own Park Place, you own the four railroads. You think you're God. For all I know, you're probably right. I just wanted to have a damn cappuccino, maybe play some Nintendo after I find out what it is. Man, why didn't you just buy the horse? What am I saying, you did buy it.
DARWIN: Oh. Let's see. There are organizations that think we wanted the "Sforza" for reasons other than putting it in the Da Vinci museum we're building in Vinci. Hopefully, these organizations think our plan has been ruined with the explosion of our replica. If I seem vague, grand. We want a low profile on this, that's why I got Kaplan and the Candy bars involved. I helped George help the Mario Brothers and Gates help get you out..
HAWK: If you're pausing for a "thank you," give it up. So boss, you going to tell me what the crystal piece inside the pony means?
DARWIN: Way to go, Alfie! How many people did you break that thing in front of. Good help's hard to find.
HAWK: I guess that's a no.
DARWIN: Ladies and gentlemen of the board.
DARWIN: And Min-er-va. Let's give it up for Hudson Hawk.
MINERVA: Hello..Bunny, Ball-Ball!
DARWIN: Hawkmeister, we got you clothes, great hotel, and a 250,000 lira per diem.
MINERVA: That's two hundred dollars a day? So he can get a hooker and some tequila. Veto, Darwin.
HAWK: Guess I know who wears the penis in this family.
MINERVA: ( jumping off table ) For God's sake, chain this Alfred, you're a very polite psychopath, but if you.
HAWK: Alfred, you're a very polite psychopath, but if you.
MINERVA: We want Da Vinci's sketchbook, what do they call it, the Codex.
DARWIN: Listen Hawk, this might be hard to believe, but I'm a regular joe. I just want to be happy and happiness comes from the achieving of goals. It's just when you make your first billion by the age of 19, it's hard to keep coming up with new ones. But now finally I got my new goal. World domination. With your help.Bunny..quit that!
MINERVA: Bunny, ball-ball! Bad bunny!
HAWK: Think he's already got today's ball-balls. Five more minutes please, it's been so long.
HAWK: Anybody have a cigarette? But seriously, do me a favor and Concorde me back to prison. I don't care anymore. I hope you have the receipts for the threads.
MINERVA: You go back, you won't be alone. You'll have a diabetic barkeep cellmate. You're still young enough to have fun shanking child molesters for a pack of smokes, but "Alex" will go in knowing that the next time he gets out it'll be to attend his own funeral. You wouldn't risk the dime to call the police. You have no proof.
HAWK: You wouldn't risk the dime to call the police. You have no proof.
DARWIN: Ah, the magic word. It's veja du, Hawkhead. Something you wish never happened. We shot the entire operation with hidden cameras behind the hidden cameras. Hired the guy who did the last Sports Illustrated Swimsuit issue. Excellent work. whoops, damn Fotomat assholes.
DARWIN: It's veja du, Hawkhead. Something you wish never happened. We shot the entire operation with hidden cameras behind the hidden cameras. Hired the guy who did the last Sports Illustrated Swimsuit issue. Excellent work. whoops, damn Fotomat assholes.
MINERVA: Tomorrow, you're going to hit a
HAWK: I'm robbing the Vatican. The nuns at St. Agnes predicted that I'd end up doing this.
HAWK: ( half-hearted ) Excuse me, I'm being blackmailed into robbing the Vatican by a psychotic American corporation along with a CIA.
VATICAN GUARD: "You're being"...uh, I don't,
HAWK: Forget it, man. Go tackle a
HAWK: Operator, I want to make a collect call to Alex Messina, New York..
ANNA: Tough guy. What are youHow's your head.
HAWK: ( vegetable ) Yes, and my giraffe loves it, too.
ANNA: As you know, the Da Vinci Codex, has lived in the Vatican for centuries and will continue to live here for centuries more.
HAWK: ( under his breath ) That's what you theenk.
ANNA: Question, sir? His untiring pen predicted the airplane, the submarine, the bicycle, the helicopter, and even the tank.
LITTLE BRAT: This is so bor-ing! Do you hate Italy as much as I do, Pokey? Si, senor! Italy sucks the big one! why can't we go to the Epcot
ANNA: These more dangerous designs inspired him to develop a secret code that .. Pokey, come back!
LITTLE BRAT: Pokey, come back!
ANNA: Come on, this stuff will knock you out. Have you ever had the feeling you were being followed, Mr. Bond.
HAWK: Never, why do you ask?
HAWK: Whoa. Name's Hawkins, Eddie My nickname's Hudson Hawk, but don't call me Hudson, not even as a joke. The Nuns at St. Agnes called me that and they're the ones who helped make me what I am today. Not a compliment.
ANNA: Sure Hudson. Are you going to tell me why you did that back there or are you going to blame it on Dumbo?
HAWK: Could you believe that crazy
HAWK: Whoa, part 2. Does it go to Times Delivers up to ten at night. The Pope has an obsession with his Easter Seals. It's actually not that an unusual set-up. The secret passageway on the other The Vatican is made of constant mysteries meant to be enjoyed, not explained.
ANNA: Delivers up to ten at night. The Pope has an obsession with his Easter Seals. It's actually not that an unusual set-up. The secret passageway on the other The Vatican is made of constant mysteries meant to be enjoyed, not explained.
HAWK: The Vatican is made of constant mysteries meant to be enjoyed, not explained.
ANNA: Nice. But right out of our Oh, you read that.
HAWK: Oh, you read that.
ANNA: Actually I wrote it. It's a good sentence. It can apply to people.
HAWK: You're not an unmysterious thang I don't steal stuffed elephants from little girls. And I buy my own clothes. My life's a little boring.
ANNA: I don't steal stuffed elephants from little girls. And I buy my own clothes. My life's a little boring.
HAWK: God, I wish I could say the same thing. What about having a nice, dull dinner with me tonight. Scrabble, Knock-knock jokes, Anecdotes about famous dead I'll bring my entire repertoire.
ANNA: I'll bring my entire repertoire.
HAWK: And I'll bring my entourage.
ANNA: Secret passageways don't mean as much as they used to. There's a place two blocks east of here. Enzo's. Say 10:30.
HAWK: Hawk and Anna peck each other with a smile. He crawls out an exit door. As he leaves, Anna's smile disappears. She pulls out a rosary and gives herself a self-scolding bang on the head. She then darts to a large crucifix and looks up.
ANNA: Father, it's obvious. He's up to Report downstairs at once.
ANNA: Yes, sir.
CARDINAL: Did he mention the Mayflowers?
ANNA: No, your Eminence. I think he's going to steal the Codex, as early as next week.
CARDINAL: Attempt, you mean. The vanity of this man, Hudson Hawk. The Vatican has foiled the advances of Pirates and Terrorists. We will not lie down for some schmuck from New Jersey. Must you flirt with him so realistically?
ANNA: That's the best kind. A wise woman once said "Polite conversation is rarely either."
CARDINAL: ( chuckling ) Let me be the one to quote Scripture. ..As an agent of our organization, you are put in awkward situations. Just remember, Hudson Hawk is an evil, evil man.
ANNA: ( unconvinced ) Yeah. The big E.
HAWK: Hello, operator. I'd like to make a collect call to New York
HAWK: Thank you, operator, thank you.
HAWK: Come on, Alex, pick up, you Reindeer goat cheese-eating
HAWK: A-lex, A-lex, come on Alex.
KAPLAN: Hawk, Hawk, Hawk. Enjoying Italy? I always had a soft spot for Rome. Did my first barehanded strangulation here. Communist Why George, you big softie.
HAWK: Why George, you big softie.
KAPLAN: God, I miss communism. The Red Threat. People were scared, the Agency was respected, and I got laid every night.
BUTTERFINGER: Sorry, coach.
KAPLAN: ( shaking his head ) If his father wasn't the head of Shit, I hate this, the government's got me farmed out, working for the Mayflower corporation now, money beats politics. War isn't Hell anymore, it's Dull. Don't slaughter their men and rape their women, just steal their microchips.
HAWK: You know Kaplan, if you weren't the slimiest pinata of shit that ever lived, I'd feel sorry for Good news, bud, the Mayflowers have moved up the time-table. You're hitting the Vatican to-night.
SNICKERS: Good news, bud, the Mayflowers have moved up the time-table. You're hitting the Vatican to-night.
HAWK: Tonight? You're whacked. The timing's off, I'm underequipped Damnit, I have a date!
ALMOND JOY: Grapple, Biker's bottle, hairspray, black turtleneck, Pocket Fisherman, acid, collapsible yardstick, softball, and 72 stamps. Gee Stud, this is going to be some date. No Harvey's Bristol Snickers, make the list happen. Oh and it's one thing to play hide and seek with the Mayflower's pathetic staff, but we're sore losers. I've put jumper cables on the nipples of children and not always in the line of duty.
KAPLAN: Snickers, make the list happen. Oh and it's one thing to play hide and seek with the Mayflower's pathetic staff, but we're sore losers. I've put jumper cables on the nipples of children and not always in the line of duty.
HAWK: Thanks for sharing.
KAPLAN: We blow up space shuttles for breakfast. You and your friend Alex would be a late afternoon If you do anything to my friend.
HAWK: If you do anything to my friend.
KAPLAN: Yeah, right. By the way, as long as I'm getting things off my chest, I'm the one who killed your little monkey. Made it look like a Mafia hit. Did it for fun.
HAWK: What did you have against Little Eddie, motherfucker? He was just a monkey who liked to laugh. Come back without your yuppie army. I'll triscuit you, you space shuttle eating.Shit.!
BUTTERFINGER: Hey, Mr. Hawk, I got those 72
HAWK: "Beware the Odd Steps."
HAWK: Why Kit Kat, aren't you a
HAWK: Please God, Please God...let the guard shoot me.
VATICAN GUARD: The worm's on the other foot, yankee noodle candy.
HAWK: is alnost to the other side when the Guard's bullet hits the friction belt. Hawk drops with a wild scream. and lands with a painful straddle atop a street lamppost. His eyes bug out with the thought of a life without children. He slowly spins off the lamppost and sails down upon.
ANNA: Oh Hudson, I was worried you weren't going to drop by..
HAWK: I never break a date. Scout's Fettucini con Funghi Porcini.
HAWK: Fettucini con Funghi Porcini.
WAITER: Bellissimo, signor.
HAWK: Oh, and could I have some ketchup with that.
SNICKERS: Come on, Pierre, Steak-bur-ger, Fren-n-ch Fries. This is France, you gotta have French...
ALMOND JOY: Actually we're in Italy, Snickers, she said as if it made a difference.
SNICKERS: Italy, France, Moscow. They all just wanna be Nebraska. Old Man Kaplan thinks since Communism is dead, we got nothing to do. Man, Democracy isn't free elections. We gotta teach the world that Democracy is Big Tits, College Football on Saturdays, Eddie Murphy saying the word "Fuck" and Kids putting their hands down garbage disposals on "America's Funniest Home Videos."
ALMOND JOY: Damn baby, when's the last time you had a vacation.Jesus, I gotta get out of this job. If my Mom knew her daughter assassinated the leader of the anti-Apartheid movement..
SNICKERS: Quit bitching, you got the employee of the month plaque for that shit.Ah to be in Pari-is and in love.
HAWK: This is bueno. They had the worst ketchup in prison...uh.
ANNA: I was the Warden?
HAWK: I was the Warden?
ANNA: How long were you in?
HAWK: Let's just say, I never saw E.T.
ANNA: Wow, you were "in the joint." "Doing hard time." It's funny, but that excites me. I seem to have a thing for sinners.
HAWK: I seem to have a thing for sinning. sinning. Check please..
WAITER: Ah, anything for dessert?
ANNA: ( she shoots ) Yes. Something to go.
HAWK: ( she scores ) I'll bring the ketchup.
ANNA: What have you been doing?
HAWK: Uh..old badminton injury.
HAWK: tickles, ticKleS, TICKLES.
ANNA: ( not stopping ) Oh, I'm so sorry.
ANNA: I'm sorry. I can't. I..
HAWK: ( softly approaching ) Hey now, outside of a very friendly dog this morning, it's been a slow decade. I don't make love every ten years, I get a little cranky.
ANNA: It's also been a long time for me. I
HAWK: Catholic girls are scary.
ANNA: Somebody robbed the Vatican.
HAWK: Oh. No.
HAWK: It's not what you think. Okay, maybe it is..
ANNA: You really went and did it. With one day, not even a day, of planning, you did it. Nobody does it better, Hudson. You started the week stealing the Sforza and you ended it swiping the Codex.
HAWK: What are your plans for the weekend? Hoisting away the Colosseum? Tell me, did the devil make you do it or did Darwin and Minerva Mayflower?
ANNA: What are your plans for the weekend? Hoisting away the Colosseum? Tell me, did the devil make you do it or did Darwin and Minerva Mayflower?
SNICKERS: What's going on in there?
BUTTERFINGER: Do you want me to rape them? Dunkin does it better.
SNICKERS: Just read, Butterfinger.
BUTTERFINGER: "Da Vinci had fears about his more dangerous designs, so he created a shorthand code in reverse script."
ALMOND JOY: To yourself!...What are they doing? In twenty seconds, we go
ANNA: For two years, I've been tracking the Mayflowers' peculiar interest in three Da Vinci pieces. Their Sforza replica was as fake as the "gas leak" that supposedly destroyed it.
HAWK: Does everyone in the world know more than me? Jesus, I'm just some guy who happens to be good at swiping stuff...Lifted a piece of licorice when I was one and a half. Who knew it would lead. They even got the CIA The C.I. what? God, no.
ANNA: The C.I. what? God, no.
HAWK: ( raising his cup ) Ooh, I guess I do know something Here's looking at you, kid.
ALMOND JOY: ANNA'S HOUSE Hawk sips the cappuccino. His face immediately contracts.
ANNA'S HOUSE: Hawk sips the cappuccino. His face immediately contracts.
HAWK: This doesn't taste like Oh, I must have put too much ethyl-chloride in it.
ANNA: Oh, I must have put too much ethyl-chloride in it.
ANNA: Why didn't you tell me at the restaurant that he had hit the Vatican tonight. My people will not be happy. I want to see Kaplan.
ALMOND JOY: That's not overly possible. He.
BUTTERFINGER: But guys, remember, he's in the castle at Vinci..
KAPLAN: Way to go, Anna.
ANNA: When the Mayflowers find out we have the Codex, they're going to want to make a deal.
KAPLAN: ( gung-ho lying ) And then we'll arrest those greedy pigs. Is that it?
ANNA: Actually George, it's not it. What are we doing in this castle? I happen to know the Mayflowers bought this castle last year when they found out Da Vinci used to It's the site of their new museum and we're taking it over. Operation Deflower Mayflower is going full speed ahead.
KAPLAN: ( trying to be solemn ) It's the site of their new museum and we're taking it over. Operation Deflower Mayflower is going full speed ahead.
ANNA: ( taking it in ) Oh Lord.. the only reason I ask is that Hudson, uh, Mr. Hawk, Hawkins, had some "neat" things to say about Darwin, Minerva, and you. Basically that you're part of the same car pool.
KAPLAN: Anna. Anna. Anna. If that were true, Almond Joy would have handed you your heart right after you handed me the Codex. Now, get some sleep. Kit Kat.
ANNA: Cat got his tongue?
KAPLAN: Actually he never told us what it
ANNA: How sweet. I trust you will see Hudson Hawk is given to the proper authorities. I recommend Oh, I think we all do.
SNICKERS: ( holding in a laugh ) Oh, I think we all do.
SNICKERS: Do you think she has any idea that Operation Deflower Mayflower is as bogus as Kit Kat's tits?
KAPLAN: I don't think so, although bringing her to the castle gave her a big, juicy hint.
ALMOND JOY: With all due respect to that great blouse, why didn't I cut out her Close call, but she's our only way of keeping tabs on that damn mysterious Vatican organization. Hawk, it's time to go to the principal's office..
KAPLAN: Close call, but she's our only way of keeping tabs on that damn mysterious Vatican organization. Hawk, it's time to go to the principal's office..
DARWIN: Minerva turns the gadget up to SEVEN and presses a button. Another tennis ball shoots out, a little faster. Darwin batters it. The ball ricochets into the forehead of an "amused" Alfred who is retrieving balls in sweat
ALFRED: Jolly. Good. Shot. Sir.
MINERVA: Ooh, it's Hudson Hawk, you cease to amaze me, convict. You are a terrible cat burglar!
DARWIN: Haven't you ever seen, like David Niven? You know tiptoe in, tiptoe Like a "cat", one could say.
MINERVA: Like a "cat", one could say.
HAWK: Shucks, I'll just take it back.
MINERVA: ( bouncing up ) No, let me!
DARWIN: ( pout ) I don't care.
HAWK: Another piece of the puzzle for the Da Vinci Alchemy project. Oh, you. There's nothing more I hate than failure. All you had to do was follow the Hawk, it's not like I said "Teach our nation's children how to read."
DARWIN: Oh, you. There's nothing more I hate than failure. All you had to do was follow the Hawk, it's not like I said "Teach our nation's children how to read."
DARWIN: I guess we're just going to have to kill 'em.
DARWIN: God Minerva, I was
THE MAYFLOWERS: reverberate off each other with laughter. Bloodstained, Kaplan and Almond Joy exchange an eye bulge. Minerva's smile disappears as she sees Hawk by the sheets.
MINERVA: Get away from there, convict!
HAWK: Just browsing. Don't touch me..
DARWIN: Don't hurt him! We need him for the final job!
HAWK: Oh weeeeelly, don't hurt me? Even if I do this..
HAWK: And this..
HAWK: Surely this must offend..
KAPLAN: That's it!
HAWK: Things are getting a little loose at the Da Vinci workshop tonight. "Put your left leg in, take your right foot out." May I call you
DARWIN: Come to think of it there is a part of your body that you won't need for your next job.
HAWK: Hey, guys, I've always wanted to sing like Franki Valli and the other seasons, but come on..
MINERVA: Big girls don't cry-I-eye.
HAWK: Two minutes, 35 seconds. Damnit, I'm involved in this thing, so I just wanna know what this thing is. I wanna be treated as an adult.
DARWIN: That's fair. Tomorrow. Back in Rome. Now go to your room.
ANNA: Forgive me Father for I have sinned. It's been 1200 hours since my last confession.
CARDINAL: Hit me with your best shot.
CARDINAL: Anna, what are you trying to say.
ANNA: He came into a world where crime is a legitimate business tactic and a legitimate government procedure. But he knew Right and Wrong. Oh, and we kind of messed
THE CARDINAL: freaks and goes into some Italian gibberish before.
CARDINAL: "Messed around" messed around? I know I don't want to know. First base? Second Base? Stop me when I'm getting warm.
CARDINAL: Sorry. Seventeen Hail Marys and five minutes outside.
CARDINAL: So let me get this straight, sister, you're saying Hudson Hawk is not willingly working for the Mayflowers but Kaplan and the Candy Bars are?
ANNA: You got it. Operation Deflower Mayflower is a bad joke and I'm the punchline. I thought we were using the CIA to help us to get Mayflower, but really the CIA was using me to keep us away from Mayflower.
CARDINAL: Oh, why couldn't I be the Cardinal in charge of catering.. If the Mayflowers get the three sections of Da Vinci's crystal and his instructions for the gold machine Aie-yiDo we got anything? What of Alex, Hawk's friend, where is his I'm going to find out.
ANNA: I'm going to find out.
CARDINAL: I'm sorry for losing it back there, but you must remember, sister, you have vows to God as well as a mission to the world.
ANNA: I know, I know, your Eminence, just say "God go with me."
CARDINAL: God go with you, sister.
DARWIN: So, Captain Hawk, in one of your paws you got a gold bar worth about 8 thou. In the autre, you got lead that won't get you Surely a master-thief like you can tell the difference.
MINERVA: Surely a master-thief like you can tell the difference.
HAWK: ( "What's my Line" ) That's two down to Kitty
MINERVA: Cool, isn't it? Weight, feel, mal1eability, they're all but identical. On the periodic chart of elements, they're but one proton apart. Great minds worked for centuries to turn worthless into priceless.
HAWK: ( casually goosing Alfred ) Alchemy! Is the business term of the 90's, my man! Minerva read about it in an airline magazine about four years ago. I dumped some lira into research. Shazam, we come across a diary by one of Da Vinci's apprentices detailing La Machine de Oro, the gold machine for those at home, and the rest is about to become history. Money isn't everything, gold is. Fuck blue chip stocks! Fuck T-bills! Fuck Junk Bonds! I got the real deal! Money will always be paper but gold will always be gold!
DARWIN: ( casually goosing Alfred ) Alchemy! Is the business term of the 90's, my man! Minerva read about it in an airline magazine about four years ago. I dumped some lira into research. Shazam, we come across a diary by one of Da Vinci's apprentices detailing La Machine de Oro, the gold machine for those at home, and the rest is about to become history. Money isn't everything, gold is. Fuck blue chip stocks! Fuck T-bills! Fuck Junk Bonds! I got the real deal! Money will always be paper but gold will always be gold!
MINERVA: Market crashes. Bomb drops. Greenhouse effect affects. We'll still be the richest, most powerful people in the world. In 1992, Europe is coming together to become one business superpower. It's one party we'd love to poop.
DARWIN: Well, that said, the last ingredient in the recipe is in, get this, you're gonna die, the Kremlin.
HAWK: Sure. The Kremlin. Makes sense. The Kremlin. Why not? Listen, this is all too Indiana Jones and the Lost City of King Tut for me, man. Throw me in jail and go ahead, just try and throw Alex.
MINERVA: Jail, you asshole! Our foot soldiers will blow your brains out! Bunny, Ball-Ball!
DARWIN: I'll torture you so slowly you'll think it's a career! I'll kill your family, your friends, and the bitch you took to the Prom!
HAWK: You want an address on that last
HAWK: Bunny, not you too?
MINERVA: You've got a dilemma, tiger. I think I know what's going to help you solve it.
HAWK: I'll kill all you. Even the old
ALEX: I hated cigarettes until I saw my first No Smoking sign. Keep off the Grass? Let's play Soccer. Only law I cared about was friendship. Broke that one too, didn't I? This Gates-Mario Brothers-CIA-Mayflower-Da Vinci thing seemed like a sweet deal. Visit foreign lands, take their treasures. I don't know, I thought you'd get into it. It's better than playing darts with M.B.A.'s at the bar. I didn't know it was going to be like this. Them using me to use you. I'm sorry, there's only one way out of this and it's gonna hurt me more than it's gonna hurt you.
KAPLAN: I just don't think it was a smoking hot idea to leave them up there alone.
MINERVA: Don't worry George, this is the reason we put the old diabetic guinea on the payroll to begin with. To keep Hawk in line. They'll talk about "being buddies" and "chugging brewskis."
DARWIN: ( raising glass ) You gotta love male bonding.
KAPLAN: You were saying.
HAWK: You bastard! You fucked my freedom for a lousy job!
ALEX: Hawk. I'm so sorry.
HAWK: No...Alex! Wake up, you can't go out like this.
MINERVA: Plan B, anyone.
ANNA: Oh thank God, you're dead.
ALEX: It was so beautiful! When the blanks went off, they.
HAWK: You bastard. You fucked my freedom for a lousy job.
ALEX: But I said I was sorry..
HAWK: No sweat, Alex, you only made the biggest mistake of my life. What was your per-diem?
ALEX: Don't act like you've never committed a crime before, Hawkins? I know, I made call, when Anna tracked me down I.
ANNA: Hudson, don't you understand.
HAWK: And you, Dr. Cappucino, you're lucky I don't hit women, assuming you are a woman. I'm not taking anything for granted anymore.
ANNA: organization. The-CIA-made-a-fool-of-me. Oh. Well, what's this?
HAWK: Oh. Well, what's this?
ANNA: Where did you get this?
HAWK: You know, the place where you gave the bad guys the Codex.. the Mayflower Museum.
ANNA: It's from the machine. All they need is the crystal to run it and they have 2/3 of it already. We can't let that happen.
ALEX: You're saying you want us to beat them to the crystal and save the world from financial disarray.
ANNA: Something like that.
ALEX: ( pulling out plane Well, forget about it. Hawk and I are going to Rio. We're hurt, we're tired, and a hero ain't nothing but a sandwich. Right, Hudson, God's given you a gift for cat burglary, you can t just.
ANNA: Hudson, God's given you a gift for cat burglary, you can t just.
HAWK: You better believe I can. I'm sick of people telling me what I have to do.
ANNA: It's that kind of selfish attitude Selfish attitude? I'm just some guy who wants a little nap and a cappuccino for when he wakes up, not too much foam.
HAWK: Selfish attitude? I'm just some guy who wants a little nap and a cappuccino for when he wakes up, not too much foam.
ANNA: You re not "some guy" anymore, Hudson. Right now, you're the only guy. Without your help, I..
HAWK: The world is beautiful. Every day in prison I made sure to remember that. It's only when I actually got out that I forgot. If I was sane, I'd be on that plane to Rio. But being beaten and abused to fulfill some corporation's perverted vision does something to your mental health. The world is beautiful and I'm tired of being It's Darwin and Minerva's turn to bite the pillow.
ANNA: That was beautiful.
ALEX: I laughed, I cried. Rio, Alex? After all they've done to.Hey, these tickets are for Moscow!
HAWK: Rio, Alex? After all they've done to.Hey, these tickets are for Moscow!
ALEX: ( knowing smile ) Damn travel agency. That Kremlin thing is in Moscow, isn't it?
ANNA: Ketchup. Stupido Americani.
KAPLAN: We're all family now. My team has done a lot of rougher things than steal the model of a We're going to whack this place so fast we'll have time to shop for American imports. Lucky for us, the Da Vinci is located in a wing of the Kremlin that they used to throw the Miss Ukraine pageant and stuff. It'll have the least number of guards..
SNICKERS: We're going to whack this place so fast we'll have time to shop for American imports. Lucky for us, the Da Vinci is located in a wing of the Kremlin that they used to throw the Miss Ukraine pageant and stuff. It'll have the least number of guards..
ALMOND JOY: Lucky for us, the Da Vinci is located in a wing of the Kremlin that they used to throw the Miss Ukraine pageant and stuff. It'll have the least number of guards..
KAPLAN: As for our plan of action, anybody'd be insane to go in from the ground floor.
ALEX: We're going in from the ground Geez, this Art Treasures Room looks like a burnt diaphragm.
HAWK: Geez, this Art Treasures Room looks like a burnt diaphragm.
HAWK: Hey, don't take your disguise so Uh, yeah. Guess I'm a wee bit nervous. I'm sorry I could only score clergy passports.
ANNA: Uh, yeah. Guess I'm a wee bit nervous. I'm sorry I could only score clergy passports.
HAWK: Fits my new image. A thief for the masses. This is one job I'm not going to feel guilty about enjoying. Gum.
ALEX: The security's actually not that It doesn't have to be. Everybody knows that if you mess with the Kremlin, you'll end up in a Siberian gulag eating your own Shwoof, that makes me feel better. I can't believe this is the Iron Curtain. All the guy at Airport customs wanted to know was "Who Shot J.R.?"
ANNA: It doesn't have to be. Everybody knows that if you mess with the Kremlin, you'll end up in a Siberian gulag eating your own Shwoof, that makes me feel better. I can't believe this is the Iron Curtain. All the guy at Airport customs wanted to know was "Who Shot J.R.?"
HAWK: Shwoof, that makes me feel better. I can't believe this is the Iron Curtain. All the guy at Airport customs wanted to know was "Who Shot J.R.?"
ALEX: You sound disappointed.
HAWK: Yeah, I mean, come on, going through the Iron Curtain is supposed to be crawling underneath barbed wire, it's supposed to be strangling a
THE VAN: passes a textbook shot of the Kremlin in the distance.
SNICKERS: We are the blue light. The green light is where the Art Treasures room is.
KAPLAN: Let's go make a purple light. Where's Kit Kat?
ALEX: Delivery Entrance. Low Security.
ANNA: All three spit out their gum into Hawk's bag.
HAWK: Count of three?
ALEX: Why not just go now?
HAWK: The Trio rush for the door.
KAPLAN: Everything's going fine, Minerva, thanks for asking.
MINERVA: I say who needs this Hudson Hawk
HAWK: ( Wizard of Oz )
MINERVA: Everybody here, in Rome, wishes you tinsel boxes of love.
THE ROOF: Kaplan hangs up the phone.
KAPLAN: Lazy, rich, condescending bitch.
ALEX: Eighth room down, babe.
ANNA: Guards come exactly every three Three. Oh. Oh. "Side by Side."
HAWK: Three. Oh. Oh. "Side by Side."
HAWK: "Oh, we ain't got a barrel of "Maybe we're ragged and funny."
ALEX: "Maybe we're ragged and funny."
KAPLAN: Create a diversion.
ALEX: Now that's a lock.
HAWK: Don't worry, we'll get it.
ANNA: Can I sing this time, too?
HAWK: Uh, I guess so.
THE BALLROOM: The Soviet V.I.P.'s open up presents of pink L.A. GEAR tennis shoes, silly T-shirts, and Nintendo joysticks as a standing Darwin hypnotizes them.
DARWIN: I look at you Soviet people and I feel. pity. superiority. Most of your life, your government has told you that Capitalism turns people into robots who'd rather eat microwave sushi, naked in the back of a Cadillac than hear the laughter of children.
MINERVA: ( smiling ) We're here to say, your government was right.
DARWIN: So let's get busy. Have some fun and make some deals.
HAWK: "Oh this lock is a pain in the bu-utt"
ALEX: "How'd we ever get such in a ru-utt"
ANNA: "But we'll travel the road, Sharing the load. Side by Side!"
SNICKERS: This is the room above the Art Treasures room. The lock is a Natalya Z-Z, first created.
ALMOND JOY: Snickers, baby, I love you like a brother, but really, who cares? Silencer bomb.
HAWK: That was close..
ALEX: Anna, I think you better stay..
HAWK: You can be lookout!... Take Alex's gun.
ANNA: "You can be the lookout."
SOVIET LEADER: Before we serve you "the main course," hee, hee, we need to know specifics about what you can do for us. We
DARWIN: Bluntness. How amusingly Hungarian. Listen up, for reasons I don't want to get into, I recently had to close down a petroleum factory, but I'm going to re-build it here and Madonna's going to cut the ribbon! Frozen burritos in Leningrad. 1982 fantasy. 1992 reality.
HAWK: "We all had our quarrels and "But we'll be the same as we started.
ALEX: "But we'll be the same as we started.
HAWK: Geez, this place is a mess.
ALEX: They rumble toward an opening in the wall of the room covered by a small curtain that has the Da Vinci Man in the Circle drawing emblazoned across it. Hawk reaches for the curtain. Alex puts his arm around him and speaks, not sings.
ALEX: Side by side, man.
ALMOND JOY: What the hell..
SNICKERS: You're supposed to be dead!
ALEX: I'm a ghost. Boo.
HAWK: I don't want to sound immature, but we were here first.
KAPLAN: I wish I could think of those cute quips the way you can, Hawk, but I can't, so I'll just shoot Alex. That was pretty uncool, George.
HAWK: ALMOND JOY
ALMOND JOY: That was pretty uncool, George.
KAPLAN: Sorry, you know he kind of reminds me of Little Eddie. But I digress. Ah, victory is so sweet..
MINERVA: Yum. This is the best meal I ever had.
ANNA: bulges her eyes at the revelation. She pulls out Alex's gun and bangs herself in the head. What to do..
KAPLAN: Damnit, this isn't the plan! Blue light, green light, shit! Snickers, Kit Kat, A.J., scramble, see if you can find out anything.
HAWK: Can't you see the Mayflowers double-crossed you.
KAPLAN: They may be scum, but if I get the Da Vinci model back, then we'll be roasting weenies on the beach.
HAWK: I don't think you'll appreciate their choice of weenie.
DARWIN: You're helping us achieve a goal and in return, I'm giving you a key to the world's executive washroom. Don't piss it away.. Skoal, amigos.
ANNA: You people are immoral and narcissitic and I won't let you.
KAPLAN: I can't believe this. I'm in fucking Russia, or do I have to say, the fucking Soviet Union and I'm shooting a non-Bolshevick. I never thought I'd say "I'm just in this job for the money." Sad. Any last immature quips?
HAWK: ( a beat ) But why do you let Butterfinger keep those blood stains on his
BUTTERFINGER: What blood stains.. You want immature, how 'bout an egg fight.
HAWK: You want immature, how 'bout an egg fight.
HAWK: Alex, are you..
ALEX: I can't believe you didn't notice. My weight. I lost ten pounds in You're a reed, man. I gotta get Anna. Hang in there.
HAWK: You're a reed, man. I gotta get Anna. Hang in there.
THE BALLROOM: Bullets stop splintering around Anna at the railing as the soldiers fling out their empty cartridges to reload. Snickers, Almond Joy, and Kit Kat race out of the hall- way area into the ballroom area. They stop at the sight of Anna..
ALMOND JOY: Anna-bannana-fo-fanna, I guess I have to cut out your heart for real now. It's not personal.
ALMOND JOY: You won't shoot. I read your dossier. Sister. I gotta get a new job.
ALMOND JOY: I gotta get a new job.
BALLROOM FLOOR: The last of the Soviet VIPS flee as the Soldiers tip over the M shaped table on its side, using it for cover, firing upward.
KIT KAT: breaks off and scurries around the second level to get a position behind the M. He fires down an arrow for a successful kill. Another guard tries to fire up, but Kit Kat impales him to the back of the table with a quality shot. Kit Kat grins and reloads as Alfred, the butler, regally creeps behind him.
HAWK: comes out of the long hallway double doors up to where Anna is bustling. They hug.
ANNA: The Mayflowers got.
KIT KAT: turns to Alfred and fires his crossbow. Alfred effort- lessly cuts it in half with his blade and continues to move forward. Still smiling, Kit Kat tries to reload.
MINERVA: breaks the standstill.
DARWIN: What a pleasant surprise. You're probably wondering.
HAWK: But you're going to tell us I hate a man with a sense of humor. While you corn dogs were comparing the lengths of your masculinity, we obtained the helicopter the new fashioned way: a thoroughly corrupt business If you think you're getting past Don't be stupid.they.
MINERVA: I hate a man with a sense of humor. While you corn dogs were comparing the lengths of your masculinity, we obtained the helicopter the new fashioned way: a thoroughly corrupt business If you think you're getting past Don't be stupid.they.
HAWK: If you think you're getting past Don't be stupid.they.
HAWK: Don't be stupid.they.
SNICKERS: Bastard! If you were a true Just shut up and hit me!
HAWK: Just shut up and hit me!
KIT KAT: gets in an arrow but it's too late. Alfred stabs him deep, deep, deeply, and lifts him from the ground. A shower of cards reading "OUCH" "PAIN" and "THIS REALLY HURTS" rain from out of Kit Kat's coat. Alfred discards him over the edge. Kit Kat sails down upon the M. The lone card of "FUCK" plops from his open eyed corpse.
HAWK: and Snickers trades fierce blows, stumbling down a and Minerva watch the fight with amusement. Alfred
DARWIN: and Minerva watch the fight with amusement. Alfred
DARWIN: Alfred, the getaway car.
SNICKERS: slashes Hawk in the arm with a small but sinister blade.
HAWK: Damnit, I hate this! I'm a cat burglar! Nobody said anything about this fight-to-the-death Too bad.
SNICKERS: Too bad.
MINERVA: I knew it! I told you it was a That New-York-Italian-Father- of-a-bitch. What was our bet? A Million five, lover.
DARWIN: That New-York-Italian-Father- of-a-bitch. What was our bet? A Million five, lover.
MINERVA: Million five, lover.
HAWK: boots Snickers down the stairs. Snickers somersaults up and frantically tries to pull off the bomb. Snickers wails to the soldiers, who have lowered their guns and are poking their heads out of the M to watch.
SNICKERS: Help me you Democratic Reform lovers! Get a screwdriver, you Stupid Eskimoes! Screw-dri-ver! Oh God, I always wanted to know how to play the harp, there just was so little time! Rosebud!
SNICKERS: Maybe it was just a..
THE STAIRCASE: Hawk bounds up to Alex, who puffs down onto the steps.
ALEX: Get 'em. They went down the Let's just forget it, I mean.
HAWK: Let's just forget it, I mean.
ALEX: Get em..
THE BALLROOM: Minera sits down next to the pained Alex.
MINERVA: Alex. How's it going?
ALEX: Go, go to Hell, to Hell.
MINERVA: Where's your insulin..No? Well, Bon Appetite.
THE HALLWAY: Hawk moves closer and closer to the darkness of the hallway when a one-eyed and bleeding George Kaplan dives out of the Art Treasures room and tackles him. Hawk kicks him off.
HAWK: Oh, come on..
THE BALLROOM: Alex gulps down the last of the candy bar, shivering.
MINERVA: Very good, Alex, but you re still alive..
MINERVA: That's fair.
HAWK: Why does this have to be so hard.
KAPLAN: Tell me about it.
HAWK: Take this to Hell with you.
KAPLAN: My pension...
THE LIMOUSINE: blasts down the hallway, sparking off the wall, and bashing off paintings and mirrors.
THE BACKSEAT: Darwin flicks on his paper shredder and shoves the side of Hawk's hand into its teeth.
DARWIN: God-damnit, I only wanted to destroy the world in my own image. I'm a regular Joe.
DARWIN: Not Lenin, anybody but Lenin. God, let's talk abut this.
HAWK: Wow, this is really gonna hurt the resale value.
THE BALLROOM: Hawk runs up to a woozy Anna and helps her up. She has a cross-shaped blood stain on her forehead.
HAWK: Oh, honey..
HAWK: We did it man, we.
ANNA: Oh Hudson.
HAWK: I told you not to call me Hudson. The only people who called me that were the nuns at.
ANNA: Oh Hudson, I'm a sister of the Catholic church as well as an This is too bad to be false. Welcome back to Vinci.
HAWK: ( cut-off laugh ) This is too bad to be false. Welcome back to Vinci.
ALFRED: Welcome back to Vinci.
HAWK: Last rites, sister?
ANNA: Please, no nun jokes.They're a bad habit to get into..get it?
HAWK: She killed Alex.
MINERVA: Sorry, I couldn't resist. You're probably wondering why you're still alive. Anna...
MINERVA: I want you to monitor the Da Vinci's directions from the apprentice diary. And Hawk, I didn't want you to go to hell without knowing that Darwin and I's dream came true. Beside that, none of us can seem to put that damn crystal together. Alfie and I were up all night with the thing.
HAWK: You killed a friend. Why should I help you go for the gold?
MINERVA: It'll take a couple of years of steady production, but I'll flood the market with so much gold that gold itself, the foundation of all finance, will lose its meaning. Brokers, economists, and fellow entrepreneurs will drown in the saliva of their own nervous breakdowns. Markets will crash- crash. Financial Empires will Except yours-yours. The goal of world domination. Well, if you put it that way, Minnie. How can I resist?
HAWK: Except yours-yours. The goal of world domination. Well, if you put it that way, Minnie. How can I resist?
MINERVA: You can't, convict! You're just a shmoe! Every shmoe has the fantasy the planet revolves around them. It rains, car crash stops traffic, you say "How could this happen to me?" It's a natural inclination. But for I, this isn't a fantasy, it is reality! You are on my planet! You walk around the corner for coffee, out of my sight, you do not fucking exist! The lives of shmoes like you have meaning only in relation to the rich, to the powerful, to ME!
ANNA: Do it. There's no reason to fight anymore. She's a force of nature.
MINERVA: If you pull this off, I can't promise I won't kill you. I mean, who we trying to kid? But I will spare the Flying Nun here..
HAWK: And to think I thought you were Evil Incarnate in pumps.
MINERVA: I killed some lovable working class Italian-diabetic, but you killed the most significant male figure of the decade and a kind, gentle lover. So don't play with
HAWK: Okay, fine!
MINERVA: Oh Hawk, don't ever change. Go, team, go!
HAWK: I hope you know what..
ANNA: Trust Leonardo..
HAWK: Anna puts her fingers on his lips. Minerva throws a lever. Steam begins to percolate from the furnace towards the machine.
MINERVA: ( into the headset ) We're for real.
THE MACHINE: begins to rotate, at first clunkily, then faster. The Crystal rotates comfortably in its compartment. The machine throws out its folding arms, each with an element. The arms click higher. The goggled technicians stand before a time-coded video monitor, taking notes. The chemical housings open and the chemicals begin to spill and drop through brass tubes.
ANNA: murmurs to Hawk.
ANNA: Da Vinci made the real directions in a secret script that I decoded. The way the machine is running now, the gold will produce too quickly, clog, and the machine will shut itself down. Isn't it Yeah, but what would happen if that little mirror came out of the Wha you don't want to know.
HAWK: Yeah, but what would happen if that little mirror came out of the Wha you don't want to know.
ANNA: Wha you don't want to know.
HAWK: I wanna know.
ANNA: Holy sh-hthings are going to get very interesting, very fast. Da Vinci would be proud of you.
EVERYONE: doubletakes. Hawk reaches down to the six foot steel pole and with one swing slams the faces of all three deep in concentration Technicians to the ground. Oblivious to the violence behind her, Minerva, pulling on goggles over her head-set, moves closer with a religious purr.
THE MACHINE: triggers a fresnel lens and laserlike beams bounce around the mirrors faster and faster, circling the room.
THE MACHINE: Beams of light converge on the top mirror and bounce into the innards of the machine with a mighty roar!
MINERVA: sees that the center of the machine gleams yellowish and molten. She moves closer, shouting into her head-set.
MINERVA: Eureka, motherfuckers! Minnie, hate to interrupt your orgasm, but..
HAWK: Me, Anna, and Leonardo just wanna say you got the Midas touch, baby.
MACHINE: Minerva turns toward the machine in anger and confusion. The center of the machine blows. The pool of molten gold rockets at the viewer. Mirrors explode and the lasers slash at the walls. Minerva tumbles from the machine, screaming, that is to say, trying to scream, because molten gold covers her face. It bubbles and cascades, turning her into a bizarrely beautiful echo of Nefertiti.
ALFRED: You're unemployed, Alfie. Boss is dead. Her plan is over.
HAWK: You're unemployed, Alfie. Boss is dead. Her plan is over.
ALFRED: ( strange voiced ) My plan is just beginning. I'll forgive you for denying me the pleasure of slaughtering my boorish employers, but I'm afraid the birth of the new British Empire can have no witnesses!
HAWK: Alfred rushes forward with a howl. Hawk meets him halfway. They trade savage punches and then lock onto each other's throats. Anna pulls a gun from a technician's holster and prays for forgiveness. She aims steadily, and fires. right into Hawk's arm. This allows Alfred to knock him back with a strong punch.
ANNA: She fires again. The bullet pings off Hawk's belt buckle.
HAWK: Stop helping me! Thou shalt not
HAWK: Don't lose your head over this.
HAWK: Excuse my crass American humor.
ANNA: Allow me.
HAWK: Oh Bunny, Ball-Ball.
JUGGLER: Che pazzo..
HAWK: Have I ever told you the world is I'd really like to play Nintendo with you, or something.
ANNA: Hudson, I'm afraid I'm sticking with God. But you're a close second, tough guy. What is that smile?
HAWK: ( broadly grinning ) I got my planet back.
HAWK: The first one's for Alex. Cheers.
