FIRST DRAFT: There is a gunshot. A crow screams. A fluttering of wings.
LILA: I'm not sorry.
PUFF: I am sorry.
NATHAN: I don't even know what sorry means
LILA: I'm not sorry. So I spend the rest of my life in jail. So what? I've been in jail my whole life anyway. A jail of blood and tissue and coursing
LILA: .a jail called the human body.
LILA: My soul held prisoner in this reeking, stench-ridden bag of bones and entrails. A bag of feces and piss and fibroid cysts in my tits and precancerous moles on my sun-damaged
LILA: At least now I'll be able to blame the state, not God, for my
PUFF: I am sorry, gentlemen, sorry for all of us. Your's is a complicated, sad
PUFF: And I never knew that. I was living a life of simplicity, of purity, when I was ripped out of my Eden and immersed in this harshness. Some would argue that the life I was living was not a human life at all. And, gentlemen, I don't have any clever retort. I am not a philosopher. The only thing I know is that I am sorry, sorry for my expulsion from Eden, sorry for my Lila rotting in her jail cell, and sorry for Nathan. rotting in his grave.
NATHAN: I don't even know what sorry means anymore. It's odd. When I was alive I knew maybe it was all I knew but here sorry is meaningless. Love is meaningless. Jealousy is meaningless. Ambition is meaningless. Everything that motivated my every breath while I was alive is meaningless now. I guess that's how I can be sure I'm really dead.
LILA: My story begins when I was twelve.
COP: ( checks watch )
DOCTOR: ( to the mother ) It's hormonal. Nature is a funny and complex thing. It could get worse with time.
PUFF: I don't think there's anyone in the world who doesn't know by now that I was raised in the wilderness by an ape. Well, to be fair, by a man who thought himself an ape, but it amounts to the same thing gentlemen, does it
PUFF: Apes don't assassinate their presidents, gentlemen.
PUFF: It might be argued, gentlemen, that apes don't even know that they are apes. In retrospect, however, I'd say that I was a pygmy chimp.
NATHAN: I have to say I always hated apes. Of course I don't any longer. I don't even know what hate means now. But while alive, I hated apes. I blame my parents. I mean, I don't blame them. I don't know what blame is, really, anymore, but I think they influenced me in my ape-hating
MOTHER: ( clamping down on his shoulder ) Nathan, those are not monkeys. Those are apes. Mountain Gorillas to be
PUFF'S FATHER: I am not a human being! I am an
MOTHER: And furthermore. Tell him, Harold.
FATHER: ( distracted ) ( then by rote ) We must never act like apes, son. For you see, The ape is our closest biological relative specifically the pygmy chimp. ( holds up the same illustration of a pygmy chimp that Puff showed the committee ) A single chromosome separates us. But you know what truly separates us from the apes, what makes us better than apes?
FATHER: Culture. Civilization. Refinement. If we do not have these as humans, then we might as well be living in pens and throwing our feces about, masturbating in public. .sniffing red swollen female rump.
MOTHER: Enough, Harold.
LILA: Oh, I had sexual urges. I had the urge to merge, officers. Inside I was 100% Grade A female. But what self-loathing I felt! Who would have someone as repulsive, as unladylike as me? I did everything I could to shield the world from this Lila, what are you doing in there? I need to get ready for my date.
LILA: Nothing! I'll be out in a minute!
FEMALE ROOMMATE: Look, I'll just. What the.?
FEMALE ROOMMATE: I don't know why you didn't tell me about this.
LILA: It's embarrassing, okay?
FEMALE ROOMMATE: It's not so bad. So, it just keeps growing?
LILA: Yeah, Natalie. It's hair. It grows.
FEMALE ROOMMATE: Well, don't jump down my throat. I'm just trying to help.
LILA: How is that helping, Natalie? How Look, if you're going to be like that. You should be appreciative that I'm interested.
FEMALE ROOMMATE: Look, if you're going to be like that. You should be appreciative that I'm interested.
LILA: Why, because I'm a freak and you are beautiful, and you are being nice enough to come down to my freak, nonbeautiful level and act concerned about my repulsive troubles?
FEMALE ROOMMATE: ( pegged ) You're fucked up, Lila. ( out the door ) Why don't you fucking try electrolysis or something? Figure it out for
LILA: Heavenly Father. .please let this hair go away.
LESBIANS: ( chanting ) A woman without a man / Is like a fish without a bicycle.
LILA: ( depressed ) Ho ho ho.
LILA: Ow! You little fuck.
LILA: The way that mouse looked at me. There was no judgement. It didn't care if I had hair all over my body. I was just what I was. I felt so free. Do you understand what I'm Something about a mouse, right?
COP: Something about a mouse, right?
LILA: Last night I almost died on this mountain top, and the irony is I had never felt more alive.
LILA: I knew it was coming when in late afternoon, a thunderhead drifted over, sneaking in like kids through the back door of a movie theater, forced casual. It turned the sky a queer shade of green. A green that said "watch out, baby, this is gonna hurt like hell." I could've hightailed, but that would be cheating. Part of the Nature experience is recognizing its mastery over you, your smallness in the face of it.
LILA: As Nietzsche said, what does not kill me makes me stronger, and that goes double if you're a woman.
LILA: Then I became a famous nature writer. I said to myself, fuck humanity.
LILA: .and I became a recluse. I had a menagerie of animals at my house. They loved me because I was me. They loved me on the days I shaved. They loved me on the days I didn't. For a while this was enough.
LILA: I had to have a man in my. life. At any cost. I would become what I needed to become to achieve this. I would become a hairless lie.
LILA: I was rich enough for electrolysis by this time, so I began the long arduous process of having each inappropriate hair burned out of my body at the root.
LILA: This is when everything changed, and this is where my confession really
ROSE: Ouch. Yeah?
LILA: Ouch. Yeah?
ROSE: Oh yes, honey. Getting to be smooth smooth smooth all over. Smooth as a baby's butt.
LILA: I love it, Rose. I'm getting to be a real girl.
ROSE: You still in the market for a real Always. Ow.
LILA: Always. Ow.
ROSE: ( beat ) Cause there's this guy. My brother knows him. Might be right up your Tell me. I could use someone up my ( playing dumb ) I don't get that. Is that sexual?
LILA: Tell me. I could use someone up my I don't get that. Is that sexual?
ROSE: ( playing dumb ) I don't get that. Is that sexual?
LILA: Shut up and tell me.
ROSE: Handsome, thirties, psychologist.
LILA: Loves animals? Ouch. Must love animals, Rose.
ROSE: Loves animals. Loves you.
LILA: What do you mean?
ROSE: Somehow it came up that you were a friend of mine. Mr. handsome, animal- loving psychologist said he would love to meet you.
LILA: Holy shit. Your brother didn't tell him about the nature of our relationship, did he?
ROSE: My brother is discreet.
LILA: ( rubbing her hand over her jaw ) Won't he be able to tell?
ROSE: My brother says the guy's a thirty- five year old virgin, so maybe he won't know how women usually feel. Plus he's got bad eyesight, almost legally blind, which is helpful in this situation. Plus he's got an extremely small penis, of which he is "mortifyingly ashamed", so chances are he'll be so grateful for any non- judgmental attention, that he'll be yours forever.
LILA: God, he must be really close to your brother to tell him such personal Yeah, well my brother is his shrink.
ROSE: Yeah, well my brother is his shrink.
NATHAN: Meditations on a Banana Slug was a delightful read.
LILA: Thank you so much. I love slugs. All slugs, not just banana slugs.
NATHAN: As do I.
LILA: They're so even keel. They forge ahead with slow determination. They don't get distracted or side-tracked. They don't care what they look like. They don't care that people look at them and go, "Ewww. A slug."
NATHAN: They don't seem to be especially ego driven, this is true.
LILA: You've got to respect that.
NATHAN: I have to say that I'm not there Slugdom. Sluggishness. Whatever you'd call it. I'm not there yet. I still have many human characteristics.
LILA: Slugdom. Sluggishness. Whatever you'd call it. I'm not there yet. I still have many human characteristics.
NATHAN: Slugdom. Sluggishness. Whatever you'd call it. I'm not there yet. I still have many human characteristics.
LILA: That's not necessarily a bad thing.
NATHAN: Yes. I suppose not. But still. One would like to move along. To move I'm not sure we can escape our natures. Believe me I've tried. I'm not even so sure anymore that we should want to.
LILA: I'm not sure we can escape our natures. Believe me I've tried. I'm not even so sure anymore that we should want to.
NATHAN: I love that you said that. It makes me feel a bit lighter. I've been rather heavy lately. Thinking about my childhood. Realizing how much a product I am of my upbringing. I've been seeing someone. A therapist.
LILA: ( feigning surprise ) You are a therapist, right?
NATHAN: No no. I'm a psychologist, but I do research. I'm a behaviorist. I work with animals. Mice at the moment.
LILA: I hope you don't perform any of those dreadful torture experiments, Nathan.
NATHAN: Heavens no. My work now is. Right now I'm teaching mice. well, table manners, to be candid.
LILA: ( beat. doesn't know what to say ) How's it going?
NATHAN: Quite well, really. It's a lot of work. A lot of reinforcement, mostly positive. Right now I've gotten two of my subjects to use napkins. Tiny napkins of course.
LILA: Paper or cloth?
NATHAN: I hope you don't think me daft. It's important work. It's part of a larger sociological experiment. I'm federally What's the larger experiment?
LILA: What's the larger experiment?
NATHAN: It's my thesis that if table manners can be taught to mice, they can be taught to humans.
LILA: Going out on a limb, aren't you, The truth is most people don't have table manners today. And when the foundations of civilized society crumble and disappear, civilized society in its entirely follows closely at its heels.
NATHAN: ( speech ) The truth is most people don't have table manners today. And when the foundations of civilized society crumble and disappear, civilized society in its entirely follows closely at its heels.
LILA: I'm not sure.
NATHAN: ( stridently ) Courtesy, decorum, manners, are all sadly lacking from our daily intercourse. Rudeness, vulgarity, meanness are the norm.
LILA: We are animals after all.
NATHAN: Ergo if I can teach table manners to mice, I can teach them to humans. If I can teach table manners to humans, I can save the world.
ROSE: I really like him, Rose. He's so. .passionate about his work.
LILA: I really like him, Rose. He's so. .passionate about his work.
ROSE: My brother says he likes you, too.
LILA: ( pleased ) Yeah. Says he likes you even more than he likes his own mother. And according to my brother Nathan's abormally close with his mother.
ROSE: Yeah. Says he likes you even more than he likes his own mother. And according to my brother Nathan's abormally close with his mother.
NATHAN: I began going to a therapist when I was in my thirties, because I felt that I wasn't enjoying life the way my friends were. After a time my childhood came up.
FATHER: Lord, we thank you for this bountiful gift we are about to receive.
ALL: Eyes open, and young Nathan reaches for a fork to eat the salad. He grabs the wrong fork. Mother's eyes widen in horror.
MOTHER: My God, no! My God! Oh, Nathan.
MOTHER: That is the wrong fork, young man. Harold, tell the boy.
FATHER: That is the wrong fork, young man.
MOTHER: Harold, tell the boy more.
FATHER: Too late. Go to your room.
MOTHER: Harold! Tell the boy again.
FATHER: ( looking at mother ) No "buts." Go to your room now.
MOTHER: ( looking at father ) And think about what you've done.
FATHER: And think about what you've done.
WENDALL: And do you think maybe this early childhood indoctrination has something to do with your interest in table manners in the present.
NATHAN: I don't think so. No.
NATHAN: Why do you ask?
LILA: It looks wonderful.
NATHAN: You look wonderful. I'm on top of the world tonight, Lila. Work is going splendidly and my personal life is .
LILA: Um-mmm. Oh Nathan, this salad is My God! The fork! The fork!
NATHAN: ( clenched teeth ) My God! The fork! The fork!
LILA: I'm sorry?
NATHAN: ( strangely ) Tell her, Harold. ( stops himself ) It's just that. It's nothing. It's just that the outside fork is the salad fork. One goes from the outside in as the dinner progresses.
LILA: Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Nathan. I never really learned those things.
NATHAN: ( forced casual ) No biggie.
LILA: Boy, this is good!
NATHAN: I'm sorry that I became so upset.
LILA: No, I'm sorry. I'm really backward in certain areas.
NATHAN: ( beat, blurting ) It's only that I really enjoy your company and.
LILA: You do?
NATHAN: Yes, and.
LILA: You really enjoy my company?
NATHAN: ( beat, blurting ) Please don't talk with food in your mouth, Lila. Please. You're so pretty and it only mars your. I'm sorry. I'm being critical.
NATHAN: It's just that I have some peculiarities, and.
LILA: I like you, too, Nathan.
NATHAN: You do?
LILA: ( beat ) But I have some peculiarities also.
NATHAN: ( happily ) I don't care. I don't care! ( then, concerned ) Like what, for example?
LILA: Like nothing.
ROSE: My brother says things are going really well between you and Nathan.
LILA: I cannot believe how in love I am with this man.
ROSE: He's so cute. I even like his cute little penis. It's like a little pig's penis or something. Rose, we connect on every level. I've finally found someone I can feel completely safe with.
LILA: He's so cute. I even like his cute little penis. It's like a little pig's penis or something. Rose, we connect on every level. I've finally found someone I can feel completely safe with.
ROSE: Don't throw that away. I had that once with a guy. But I threw it away for a cheap thrill.
LILA: One night stand?
ROSE: No. I married a midget.
LILA: Marrying a midget was a cheap thrill?
ROSE: Well he wasn't really a midget. He was on the cusp of midgethood. That's what made it cheap. Had he been an actual midget, there would've been nothing cheap about it, my dear.
LILA: I didn't know you were into that sort of thing.
ROSE: Let me tell you, honey, midgets are the best kept secret in male companionship. They're portable. They're controllable. They're eager. And they're exactly the right height for a little covert oral fun on the dance floor.
LILA: ( screams with delight, then: ) I have a friend you might like to Three foot one.
ROSE: Three foot one.
LILA: Three foot one.
ROSE: Be still my crotch.
LILA: Rose, Nathan's no midget, but he's asked me to move in with him.
ROSE: Yeah. My brother told me.
LILA: And I think I'm going to.
ROSE: ( mulling it over ) Stand on a stepladder sometimes.
NATHAN: Lila moved in with me. Did I love her? I thought so. But from my new vantage point I realize that love is nothing more than a messy conglomeration of need, desperation, fear of death, insecurity about penis size, and the self-involved, ego driven need to collect other people's hearts. Not that I judge it. Listen, I don't want to be dead yet. Is there any way to.
NATHAN: No I suppose not. No biggie. Anyway, Lila moved in. We had our problems, but we both wanted love so badly, we turned a blind
LILA: It's lovely to finally meet you, Mr. and Mrs. Bronfman. I've heard so much about you and I've seen you in photographs from Nathan's childhood, but it's nice to meet you in the flesh. I must say, you look exactly the same as in the photographs.
MOTHER: Thank you, dear.
NATHAN: Actually, Mother and Father, you look very, very old. You look
LILA: His mother and father touch their faces reflexively, then look at each other and laugh.
MOTHER: Tell him, Harold.
FATHER: Son, your mother and I are doing a production of The Gin Game at the local community theater. We forgot to take off our make-up.
LILA: ( awkward ) Goodness, you two look exactly as you did in those old photos.
MOTHER: ( cold ) Yes, so you mentioned earlier, dear.
NATHAN: ( changing the subject ) Lila's a nature writer, mother.
MOTHER: I love nature. As long as it stays in the zoo where it belongs.
MOTHER: ( to Lila ) Don't you agree, dear?
NATHAN: Of course she does, mother.
NATHAN: What are you doing in there?
NATHAN: I'm sorry about my parents.
NATHAN: I was simply attempting to keep the evening light. You know that I feel similarly to you about nature.
NATHAN: Of course. I simply love the. naturalness of it all.
LILA: Do you? Oh do you, darling?
NATHAN: Why certainly!
LILA: Oh, darling. I'm so relieved. Let's celebrate with a long hike in the woods tomorrow!
NATHAN: ( oh shit ) That's a great idea.
LILA: It'll be wonderful! I'll show you my old stomping grounds!
NATHAN: Terrific. Can't wait!
NATHAN: Shaving cream?
LILA: I don't think so.
NATHAN: Darling, did you bring the insect repellent lotion?
LILA: Yes, darling.
NATHAN: ( beat ) Oh, and the sun block?
LILA: Of course.
NATHAN: What SPF, sweetie?
LILA: Perfectomundo! We are ready! Say, wouldn't it be wonderful to have an insect repellent lotion that also worked as a sun block? Think of all the time one would save.
NATHAN: Perfectomundo! We are ready! Say, wouldn't it be wonderful to have an insect repellent lotion that also worked as a sun block? Think of all the time one would save.
LILA: Yes, darling.
NATHAN: I think I'll get Johannsen in chemistry on that. Oh! Did you bring the first aid kit?
LILA: We could call it "Quit Bugging Me, Get it? Sunny. S-u-n-n-y.
NATHAN: We could call it "Quit Bugging Me, Get it? Sunny. S-u-n-n-y.
LILA: We could call it "Quit Bugging Me, Get it? Sunny. S-u-n-n-y.
NATHAN: We could call it "Quit Bugging Me, Get it? Sunny. S-u-n-n-y.
LILA: ( laughs appreciatively ) That's very funny.
NATHAN: I love you so much.
PUFF: Then, gentlemen, one day I saw something I hadn't seen since my father died in a freak accident involving a rotted log and four thousand bees stinging his head. I saw other human beings. They chattered away at each other in what appeared to be gibberish. Later I learned it was English. Now I wonder if perhaps my initial assessment hadn't been
LILA: It was a flash of white. I ruled out deer immediately. Too. upright.
LILA: Did you see that?
NATHAN: I don't know. Something.
LILA: I don't know. Something.
NATHAN: A deer?
LILA: No. Too. upright. Might've been a It might behoove us to turn back at this point.
NATHAN: ( nervously ) It might behoove us to turn back at this point.
LILA: Come on.
NATHAN: ( not budging ) If it's a person, why should we go see it? It's not like it's nature or anything. It's just a person. ( beat ) Sometimes people who live in the woods don't want to be seen. They live in the woods because they're anti-social, Lila. We have to respect
NATHAN: This is the way to get ticks, Lila. This is it. Bingo! Lyme Disease! You've hit the nail on the head here.
NATHAN: Oh for God's sa.
PUFF: I had never seen anything like it.
LILA: He bolted.
LILA: Who are you?
LILA: You don't understand my language, do I take it back, you do understand my
LILA: ( laughing ) I take it back, you do understand my
LILA: Oh God.
NATHAN: Oh my God! Is he dead? Please put something on.
NATHAN: You'll catch cold. It's cold. What do you suppose he is, a I think he's feral.
LILA: I think he's feral.
NATHAN: ( jumping back ) Feral? Don't touch him! He might be diseased! He might. My God, rabies!
LILA: He looks perfectly fine.
NATHAN: I think we should go. Please. Before he wakes up and, I don't know, eats us, or whatever feral things do.
LILA: I don't understand you. This is fascinating and you just want to run away. I mean, here we have a human being totally uncontaminated by civilization, totally free, and all you want to do is run back to your.
NATHAN: ( thinking ) Actually, I just had an amusing ( musing ) Feral, huh? Totally uncontaminated?
LILA: ( musing ) Feral, huh? Totally uncontaminated?
NATHAN: ( musing ) Feral, huh? Totally uncontaminated?
LILA: Look at him. He doesn't understand English. He moves like an animal.
NATHAN: It's perfect!
LILA: Nathan, what the hell are you talking Forget mice! Actually forget guinea pigs, cats, monkeys, and chimps also. I'm on to stage five: The human Oh no. You can't take him from his home, Nathan.
NATHAN: ( doing a little dance ) Forget mice! Actually forget guinea pigs, cats, monkeys, and chimps also. I'm on to stage five: The human Oh no. You can't take him from his home, Nathan.
LILA: Oh no. You can't take him from his home, Nathan.
NATHAN: ( ranting ) Don't you see? He's my Tabula Rasa, my Eliza Dolittle. He's my ticket to the top of the Behaviorist food chain. He's going to make me famous.
LILA: I won't allow you. It's wrong. He's happy here.
NATHAN: Is he, Lila? Is he happy living filthy and naked alone in this tick infested wilderness? Never to know the love of a good woman, never to revel in the pitter-patter of little feet, never to read Moby Dick, or marvel at a Monet, or just sit back after a day of hard but rewarding work, smoke a pipe, and wonder about the nature of reality.
LILA: ( weakening resolve ) You'd be taking away his freedom, Freedom's just another word for nothing left to lose, Lila, to quote Janet Jackson.
NATHAN: Freedom's just another word for nothing left to lose, Lila, to quote Janet Jackson.
NATHAN: Belonging to something, a person or a society, is a basic human craving. We are communal creatures. This poor soul has no one, nothing.
LILA: Oh God, I have no one. Nothing. You give me this beautiful gift, this glorious sunset. But with no one to say "isn't that a beautiful sunset" to, it becomes meaningless, just another stupid sunset. They happen everyday. So what?
NATHAN: .what is it that makes us human, if not the knowledge that we are indeed human? Think of this poor soul's education as the greatest gift we could bestow upon.
LILA: All right.
NATHAN: Great. Grab his feet. We'll throw him in the trunk.
GABRIELLE: Nathan looks up. Gabrielle jerks her head in the direction of a very large Lucite case. Inside, Puff, now dressed in a diaper and connected to all sorts of electrodes, is stirring. Nathan and Gabrielle hurry over.
NATHAN: Good morning.
NATHAN: ( to Gabrielle ) Only three shocks. A chimp takes fifteen. This is going to be tres simple, no, Gabrielle?
GABRIELLE: ( in love with Nathan ) Oui, doctor, oui.
NATHAN: ( to Puff ) Good morning. ( to Gabrielle ) We need a name for him, don't we?
GABRIELLE: You decide. Today is your day.
NATHAN: You decide. Today is your day.
GABRIELLE: Really? My day? Well, I had a sweet little mongrel puppie named Puff when I was a girl. This one reminds me of my dog, all shaggy! So cute! I loved my doggie very much, monsieur.
NATHAN: ( charmed ) Puff it is then. Puff Bronfman. Is that okay?
GABRIELLE: Oui. Perfect!
NATHAN: ( to Puff ) Good morning, Puff Bronfman. I'm Dr. Bronfman and this is my assistant Gabrielle. We're your mommy and daddy while you are here.
NATHAN: ( to Puff ) How about some salad, son?
GABRIELLE: Dr. Bronfman! Dr. Bronfman!
NATHAN: Oh, Hi, Gabrielle.
GABRIELLE: ( out of breath ) Hi. I just wanted to tell you that I very much enjoy working with you. ( blushes ) Now I'm embarrassed that I say this.
NATHAN: No. Don't be. I really enjoy hearing that. You're a terrific assistant.
GABRIELLE: Merci. I. Do you. would you like to go get a cup of coffee, perhaps?
NATHAN: Well, I don't know. I'm actually on my way to.
GABRIELLE: Now I am truly embarrassed. Forgive me. I should not have asked such a stupid question. I know you are a very important man and.
NATHAN: No. Don't be silly. It's just.
GABRIELLE: I am a foolish little thing. I am pink in my face, no? It is only that I have been so lonely lately and. I am ashamed. I'll see you tomorrow, okay? Unless. Am I fired now?
GABRIELLE: Thank you so much for accompanying Not at all.
NATHAN: Not at all.
GABRIELLE: I have had such a difficult time in my personal life and you seem to be such a nice man. but I'm talking too much again, no?
NATHAN: Of course not.
GABRIELLE: You're so sweet. Oh, why are there not more men out there like you?
NATHAN: There there.
GABRIELLE: You know just the right thing to
NATHAN: Listen, you're the best assistant I've ever had. Gabrielle.
GABRIELLE: ( smiles ) I like it when you say my name. Is that stupid?
NATHAN: What are you doing in there?
NATHAN: ( beat, happily ) Oh, hi. Gabrielle!
NATHAN: Uh-huh. Right, Gabrielle. Right.
NATHAN: ( into phone ) Absolutely, Gabrielle. ( covering phone, testily ) Someone from work! ( into phone ) Sorry about that, Gabrielle. Uh-huh.
NATHAN: ( into phone ) Excuse me one second, would you,
NATHAN: Look, Lila, when I'm on a work.
LILA: Nathan, I.
NATHAN: I don't get it. I don't get it. I don't get it. How could I find myself in this mess? This is a mess. This is not a situation I understand. This is a mess. How do I extricate myself from this mess? Is my girlfriend a man? I don't understand. This is not part of any plan. She deceived me. She has hair. But am I being fair? So what if she has hair? Who am I to judge? I have But I'm supposed to have hair. I am a man. Men are supposed to have hair. But poor Lila. Think of what she's had to go through. The courage she's had to have in the face of this abomination of nature. I should love her all the more. I should love every hair on her body. I mean, she doesn't mind that I have a mortifyingly
GABRIELLE: Oh, Doctor. I did not know. I'm sorry to disturb you. I just came for some papers I left.
NATHAN: Gabrielle. No, I'm sorry if I startled you. I came to think. God, Did I hang up on you?
GABRIELLE: Oui. Perhaps I called at a bad time. I am sorry.
NATHAN: No. I just got distracted. I'm so Is everything fine?
GABRIELLE: Is everything fine?
NATHAN: ( laughs ) Now you've got me talking French.
GABRIELLE: ( laughs ) I was in my p.j.'s when I remembered I left some papers I need to go over. ( opens overcoat to reveal lingerie ) See? I rushed right out of the house. I must look a mess. I'm so ( taken ) I'm in my p.j.'s, too. Funny, huh?
NATHAN: ( taken ) I'm in my p.j.'s, too. Funny, huh?
GABRIELLE: Coincidence, yes? And how is our son?
NATHAN: Our.? Oh! He seems fine. I guess we woke him. The lights and all.
GABRIELLE: I should turn them off. Maybe I sing him a lullaby my mama sang to me when I was a little girl.
NATHAN: ( a little giddy ) When you were a little French girl?
GABRIELLE: ( back in control ) That would be good.
NATHAN: ( back in control ) That would be good.
GABRIELLE: ( quietly to Nathan )
GABRIELLE: Shall we close up, then?
NATHAN: Maybe we should just sit for a while. It's very peaceful.
GABRIELLE: It's nice, yes. I'm glad I ran into you, both in our silly pajamas. It is two happy coincidences, no?
NATHAN: Yes. Happy happy.
GABRIELLE: Yet you look so sad. A great man like you should not be sad.
NATHAN: I'm fine. Life is funny, that's all.
GABRIELLE: I am sleepy.
NATHAN: I shouldn't say this, but you're pretty, Gabrielle. It's unprofessional, I know.
GABRIELLE: Really? I always think myself so ugly. No, not ugly, but plain. A Really? No. Not at all. You're a very pretty girl. You should know that. You should be confident.
NATHAN: ( buying her line ) Really? No. Not at all. You're a very pretty girl. You should know that. You should be confident.
GABRIELLE: Thank you so much. Merci. It's very wonderful to hear a man say such a nice compliment.
NATHAN: It's true. I wouldn't lie.
GABRIELLE: You are sweet.
GABRIELLE: ( vaguely protesting )
NATHAN: So soft. So smooth. I'm sorry. It's just.
GABRIELLE: ( soothing )
NATHAN: Was that okay? I mean, was I able to. satisfy you?
LILA: You are an animal.
NATHAN: Really? Wow! That's that's terrific to hear from someone so. feminine, so female.
LILA: I love being female because it, how do you say, allows me to be close to I'm glad you're female. Do you think our boy witnessed the primal scene?
NATHAN: I'm glad you're female. Do you think our boy witnessed the primal scene?
GABRIELLE: Anyway it's time he grew up. N'est- ce pa? I love chest hair on a man. I know it isn't fashionable now, hairy men. But to me it is the very sign of
GABRIELLE: What is wrong, my darling?
NATHAN: Nothing, my darling. All is right with the world.
PUFF: I saw it, gentlemen. I saw the whole sweaty, passionate, ugly, beautiful act, and to use the vernacular, I wanted me some of that. And I think I understood from that moment, that in order to get some, I would have to do what they said. In order to experience this primal, basic, animal thing, I would first have to become a civilized, prissy, uptight human. I would have to become
PUFF: And I think I understood from that moment, that in order to get some, I would have to do what they said. In order to experience this primal, basic, animal thing, I would first have to become a civilized, prissy, uptight human. I would have to become
NATHAN: ( slow. talking to an idiot ) Excellent, Puff. Now, the lady you're with excuses herself to go powder her nose.
NATHAN: Perfect. Perfect, Puff!
GABRIELLE: ( still giggling ) Dr. Bronfman's line. Yes. One moment ( puts it on hold ) ( takes phone ) Hi, honey.
NATHAN: ( takes phone ) Hi, honey.
LILA: So, how's it going today?
LILA: Honey, can we talk tonight? You know, about stuff? Things have been so strained for the past three weeks, since you know, and I just want to
NATHAN: Everything's fine, honey. We don't need to talk. Besides I have to work Please, Nathan. I really need this. You've been working late a lot.
NATHAN: Okay, we'll have dinner tonight. Yeah. Okay. Be home around seven. What? I'm sorry. What was I supposed to do?
NATHAN: Yeah. Okay. Be home around seven. What? I'm sorry. What was I supposed to do?
GABRIELLE: ( disgusted ) I don't know, Nathan. What are you supposed to do?
NATHAN: You don't abandon somebody because they have a physical problem.
GABRIELLE: Funny. I thought that's exactly what you did. You just don't have the courage to admit it to yourself.
NATHAN: Funny. I still feel guilt. Even dead. One would've hoped. But alas. You know, I really did love Lila. But with her. problem. and then when Gabrielle revealed her feelings. And Gabrielle was so. conventionally female. And she had an accent. I was lost from that moment on. But Gabrielle was right. I couldn't admit it to myself, this shallowness of character, let alone to Lila.
LILA: Are you seeing somebody else, Nathan? I just have to know.
NATHAN: Of course not.
LILA: It would just be helpful to know.
NATHAN: Because, you know, you seem so distant. And you work late every night. And we hardly ever have sex, and when we do, it's. I don't know. It feels different.
LILA: Because, you know, you seem so distant. And you work late every night. And we hardly ever have sex, and when we do, it's. I don't know. It feels different.
NATHAN: I'm just preoccupied.
LILA: Do you like my new look?
NATHAN: Yeah. It's nice. It's really good.
LILA: I'm trying, you know. I'm trying to be what you want. I want to be what you want, Nathan. All I want is to be what you want.
NATHAN: ( embarrassed ) Shh. It's okay. ( takes her hand ) It's okay, Lila. You're what I want. You know that. You're exactly what I ( hopefully, sniffing ) Sure. Of course.
LILA: ( hopefully, sniffing ) Sure. Of course.
NATHAN: Sure. Of course.
LILA: Because I'm really trying, you know. Rosie says maybe only another two years of the elctrolysis.
NATHAN: ( hard to stomach ) That's great.
LILA: I've signed up for a ballet class. And look at my nails! A real girl!
NATHAN: That's great. It's a great color for Oh, Nathan, let's have a baby!
LILA: Oh, Nathan, let's have a baby!
NATHAN: So anyway, that's the nightmare I've been having lately.
WENDALL: Do you suppose it has anything to do with Lila's unusually hairy body?
NATHAN: ( beat ) No, why?
WENDALL: Well, it seems that since Lila broached the subject of children, you've been on edge and I know you have an issue with the, uh, body Oh, I see. Yes, that's something to think about. That's very good. That's what you get the big bucks, right? Ha ha.
NATHAN: ( revelation ) Oh, I see. Yes, that's something to think about. That's very good. That's what you get the big bucks, right? Ha ha.
WENDALL: I just think it might be important to explore your feelings for Lila.
NATHAN: I love Lila. I mean, she's a wonderful person. And. she loves me! That's no small potatoes. I mean she really loves me. She's sacrificed so much to be in this relationship with me. And she's a good person. A truly good person. How rare is that in this world, eh? And how could I stop loving somebody because of a little physical imperfection, if it can even be called that. I mean, God knows I'm not perfect! What about my eyesight? It's lousy, that's what! Lila's not going to leave me because of my eyesight. What about my penis?
WENDALL: And how do you feel about Gabrielle?
PUFF: Bravo, Puff! Bravo!
NATHAN: Bravo, Puff! Bravo!
NATHAN: Isn't Puff doing spectacularly, honey?
GABRIELLE: Gabby, what is it?
NATHAN: Gabby, what is it?
GABRIELLE: Hmmph. Hmmph. Nathan, we have to talk, you and I.
NATHAN: Not in front of the boy.
GABRIELLE: Not in front of the boy.
NATHAN: Very well.
NATHAN: My little French.
GABRIELLE: ( pushing him away ) Stop. Get away.
NATHAN: What is it?
GABRIELLE: You have to choose Nathan. It's like Sophie's choice. Only it is Nathan's choice. Did you ever see that movie, Sophie's Choice? It is like that. Only it is this.
NATHAN: Gabby, you know I'm trying to sort things out.
GABRIELLE: ( hard ) No! It is now that you must decide. ( soft ) I love you, Doctor Nathan. ( hard ) .but I will not wait. I will not be your chippy. I will not be your little Mademoiselle Parlez-vous side ( soft ) My love. I want to have a sweet tiny baby inside my belly. from you.
NATHAN: I love you so much, Gabrielle.
GABRIELLE: But?. But? There is a "but," Nathan.
NATHAN: But I don't know how to leave Lila.
NATHAN: ( quietly ) Now there's a butt, Nathan.
LILA: ( laughs ) I didn't see you there, sneaky boy! ( runs over and kisses him ) You're like a boy sneaking in.
NATHAN: ( so bored ) .the back door of a movie theater. Yes, indeed.
LILA: You remember that from my book? I'm What's wrong?
NATHAN: Nothing. Hard day. Gonna have a drink.
LILA: I'll make it. I'm so happy, Nathan! Everything's going to be so great! Scotch on the rocks, right? Just kidding. I know what you drink, mister. I know what you drink.
NATHAN: Nathan stares contemplatively out the window and sips his drink. Lila watches him, comes up behind him, puts her arms around him. Nathan cringes, but tries to cover it. Lila feels the cringe, but pretends not to have. She keeps her arms around him for a moment longer, then casually removes them.
LILA: ( fishing ) How's work?
NATHAN: Cruddy, okay? Are you satisfied?
LILA: ( pouty ) No. I don't want your work to be My assistant quit today. Okay? He was highly valuable to the project.
NATHAN: My assistant quit today. Okay? He was highly valuable to the project.
LILA: Oh, baby. I'm sorry. Can't you hire somebody else?
NATHAN: I guess.
LILA: Hey! I could come work for you! I know I haven't been all that supportive of this project, but I've come around.
NATHAN: Have you?
LILA: Oh yes, baby! I think that this is a wonderful project you're doing, taking this poor unfortunate, uncivilized creature and turning him into a human being! What a wonderful wonderful compassionate man you are!
NATHAN: Yes! And I want to help. You won't have to pay me, and I was thinking of giving up that crazy nature writing How come?
LILA: Yes! And I want to help. You won't have to pay me, and I was thinking of giving up that crazy nature writing How come?
NATHAN: How come?
LILA: Who needs it? I have you and I have being a woman and I have thinking about womanly things! I love being a woman because.
NATHAN: Such as what womanly things?
LILA: Such as my man and how to please Such as making wonderful dinners for my man! Such as looking pretty for my man! And I'm writing an article on quilting for the Ladies Home Journal!
LILA: I had sold my fucking soul.
NATHAN: I let her sell her soul. I stood by as she did it. It's inexcusable. At the time though I thought it might When she came to work with Nathan, she seemed different, gentlemen, I don't know, somehow soulless.
PUFF: When she came to work with Nathan, she seemed different, gentlemen, I don't know, somehow soulless.
NATHAN: Bravo to you, Puff!
LILA: That was wonderful!
GABRIELLE: You were wonderful today, darling. Such authority with the ape-man boy. It made me so hot for you.
NATHAN: The way you are taming him, it sends chills down my girlish spine and. everywhere else, too.
GABRIELLE: The way you are taming him, it sends chills down my girlish spine and. everywhere else, too.
NATHAN: Take me, darling! Tame your little monkey of love!
GABRIELLE: Take me, darling! Tame your little monkey of love!
LILA: ( sighing ) Well, I'm tamed, Dr. Bronfman.
NATHAN: I'm glad. my assistant.
NATHAN: I think he's ready.
LILA: Oh boy!
PUFF: ( jumping up ) Oh boy!
NATHAN: Now, Puff, we're leaving on the electronic collar. I don't think we'll need to shock you, but just in Okay. That's fair.
PUFF: Okay. That's fair.
NATHAN: No, Puff! Bad! My apologies, madam.
PUFF: My apologies, madam.
LILA: It's okay, Puff.
PUFF: Shan't happen again.
NATHAN: This is great, Puff. You're doing I'm loving this. It's such a treat to be out and about. What a wonderful invention a city is. The immense buildings of glass and steel glinting in the afternoon sun, the smartly dressed women in their best summer frocks, the colorful street vendors.
PUFF: I'm loving this. It's such a treat to be out and about. What a wonderful invention a city is. The immense buildings of glass and steel glinting in the afternoon sun, the smartly dressed women in their best summer frocks, the colorful street vendors.
WAITRESS: How is everything?
PUFF: Just spectacular. Great salmon. Fantastico! You've got to give me the recipe! My compliments to the I'm glad you.
WAITRESS: I'm glad you.
NATHAN: Puff, no!
WAITRESS: And will that be all today?
PUFF: It shan't happen again. I swear it. I'm just getting my sea legs, you It's an animal urge, Puff. It's nothing to be ashamed of.
LILA: ( patting Puff on the back ) It's an animal urge, Puff. It's nothing to be ashamed of.
NATHAN: Lila! Tell him.
LILA: ( to Puff ) You just have to control it. We're not apes.
NATHAN: Thank you very much for that.
PUFF: I don't think this aversion therapy is really necessary, doctor. I understand the problem.
NATHAN: Humor me, Puff. It's essential that I am able to trust you to function independently in the world.
PUFF: I bow to your expertise in these
NATHAN: Lila dims the lights and switches on the projector. An image of a pretty, fully clothed woman appears on the screen. Puff's eyes widen, but he remains seated.
NATHAN: Good. You're doing fine.
NATHAN: The slide changes to another photo of the same woman in the same position, but with a seductive smile on her face. Puff clutches the arms of the chairs.
NATHAN: You're doing very nicely, Puff. I'm
NATHAN: Puff leaps out of his chair screaming and lunges for the screen. Nathan grabs the black box and jolts him. Puff goes flying in the air and lands with a crack. He heaves for a while, then leaps up and runs for the screen again. Again Nathan shocks him. Again he lands on the floor. He heaves, stands, lunges for the screen again. Nathan shocks him. This happens seven more times. Smoke is pouring out from the collar. Puff struggles to his feet. Looks at the screen. He shrugs.
PUFF: ( unimpressed )
NATHAN: Excellent work, Puff. Extra desert Tomorrow, the acid test.
PUFF: Tomorrow, the acid test.
NATHAN: Tomorrow, the acid test.
CHESTER'S WAITRESS: How you all doin' today?
NATHAN: ( cheerily ) Very well.
LILA: ( awkwardly ) Very well.
PUFF: ( looking down ) Very well.
CHESTER'S WAITRESS: Good enough! What can I get for you?
NATHAN: Puff, why don't you order first?
PUFF: ( looking at menu ) Uh, what's a Reuben, please?
CHESTER'S WAITRESS: The what, honey? Oh, the Reuben? That's a sandwich with corned beef and sauer.
PUFF: That's fine. That's what I'll have. Corned beef is a good food.
NATHAN: Puff, I'm proud of you! You did remarkably well under difficult
LILA: Puff jumps up and down excitedly.
PUFF: Did I? I tried so hard! I really concentrated! Oh, I'm so happy!
NATHAN: And because you did so well, we have a little surprise for you.
PUFF: ( happily ) Extra dessert?
NATHAN: Even better.
NATHAN: Free to come and go as you please. There's some "mad money" in the night table drawer.
PUFF: ( taking the key, hugging Nathan ) It's wonderful! Do you think I'm ready? Do you really?
NATHAN: I trust that you'll make good, mature decisions. I trust that you'll do the proper thing.
PUFF: Oh, I will! Your very trust has instilled an enormous sense of responsibility in me. I don't want to disappoint you.
NATHAN: Good. Remember, when in doubt: Don't ever do what you really want to do.
PUFF: ( taking it in ) Got it.
NATHAN: I'm going to go down and check on Puff. See how he's holding up.
LILA: ( stretching ) Should I come with?
NATHAN: Nah. You just relax. How's the book?
LILA: ( lazily, happily ) Ummm. It's good.
NATHAN: I won't be long.
GABRIELLE: ( into phone ) You're kidding! Holy shit. ( beat ) Yeah, no duh! I had a wild hair up my ass over that for a month.
GABRIELLE: Yeah? What?
GABRIELLE: ( into phone ) Call you back. ( hangs up, assumes French accent ) You bastard! What do you want?
GABRIELLE: ( ripping off her nightshirt ) We have nothing to say! You are a rotten bastard, that's what!
NATHAN: Please. Just one minute of your time.
NATHAN: I've got some things to tell you.
GABRIELLE: Like what?
GABRIELLE: What for?
NATHAN: Well, I think.
NATHAN: You heard me! You make me sick when you pretend to not understand what I am saying to you! Go away from here!
GABRIELLE: You heard me! You make me sick when you pretend to not understand what I am saying to you! Go away from here!
NATHAN: ( turning away ) Well, look, I'm sorry to have bothered
GABRIELLE: ( testy ) God, you're beautiful.
NATHAN: God, you're beautiful.
GABRIELLE: Please. I look a mess.
NATHAN: No. You look so beautiful.
GABRIELLE: Anyway. Come already to the point.
NATHAN: I'm. I'm going to leave Lila. I can't stop thinking about you.
GABRIELLE: I've moved on.
NATHAN: I've been seeing Johannsen in That goddamn Neanderthal? I'm the one who gave him the idea for the combination bug spray-sun screen! Did you know that?!
GABRIELLE: I've been seeing Johannsen in That goddamn Neanderthal? I'm the one who gave him the idea for the combination bug spray-sun screen! Did you know that?!
NATHAN: ( raging ) That goddamn Neanderthal? I'm the one who gave him the idea for the combination bug spray-sun screen! Did you know that?!
GABRIELLE: ( calm, dismissive ) That's not how he tells it.
NATHAN: Of course not, that Swedish thief! He's a thief of hearts! I love you, Gabrielle.
GABRIELLE: ( dismissive ) Just give me some time to let Lila down easily. She's a really nice girl and I don't want to hurt her more than is necessary.
NATHAN: Just give me some time to let Lila down easily. She's a really nice girl and I don't want to hurt her more than is necessary.
GABRIELLE: ( beat ) You hurt me, you know, when you made Nathan's Choice. Does that not even matter to you, you pig?
NATHAN: Can you ever forgive me?
NATHAN: Nathan kisses her on the forehead.
LILA: You were gone a long time.
NATHAN: ( sits down next to her ) Yeah. Puff and I got into a big, philosophical discussion. He's really quite well read, considering he's only been literate for a month now. He's going to make us famous, Lila.
LILA: So he's doing okay?
NATHAN: Seemed fine. Quiet evening enjoying his new digs.
LILA: That's funny because, you know, I just went and picked him up at some flophouse on the lower eastside. He called here when he ran out of his "mad" money after spending an entire evening drinking, watching strippers, and fucking a whore! Oh, and what did you do tonight, And what did you do tonight, honey?
NATHAN: And what did you do tonight, honey?
LILA: And what did you do tonight, honey?
NATHAN: I've fallen in love with somebody else, Lila.
LILA: ( pointedly ) And what did you do tonight, honey?
NATHAN: I fucked her! Okay? I fucked her. I'm sorry. But that's what the hell I did.
LILA: ( standing ) Do you know what I gave up to be with you?
NATHAN: I gave up my soul, my beliefs. I gave up my body hair!
LILA: I gave up my soul, my beliefs. I gave up my body hair!
NATHAN: Yeah, well, I'm sorry. The human heart is a strange thing.
LILA: How the hell would you know anything about the human heart?
NATHAN: ( moving to her )
LILA: How's that for ladylike, Nathan.
LILA: For two weeks I holed myself up in a motel room. I didn't even know who I was. My world had crumbled. There is nothing that makes you feel dirtier than finally deciding to sell your soul and finding no buyers.
LILA: No maid service! For God's sake, can't you read the fucking "do not disturb" sign on the fucking doorknob?
LILA: ( beat ) Go the fuck away, Rosie.
LILA: Rose, please go away.
LILA: How'd you know where I was?
ROSE: Nathan told my brother.
LILA: Your brother should have his license Yeah, although I'm not going to turn him in. I like hearing the dirt.
ROSE: Yeah, although I'm not going to turn him in. I like hearing the dirt.
LILA: ( suddenly crying ) Why didn't your brother tell you that Nathan was having an affair?
ROSE: I don't know, honey. I don't know. Maybe he just didn't want to get Oh, Rosie.
LILA: Oh, Rosie.
ROSE: Let's get you out of here. Come stay with me until you get your strength Free electrolysis, if you want it! We'll get that face of yours cleared up in no time.
LILA: Yeah. I gotta get myself together. I want to look good. If I'm gonna fuck with Nathan, and I am, I want him to want to fuck me when I do it.
MONTAGE SEQUENCE: This sequence is Lila getting her strength back, both emotional and physical. It is intercut with scenes of Nathan and Gabrielle taking Puff on the lecture circuit. 1 ) Lila eating a good breakfast. 2 ) Lila struggling to do push-ups. 3 ) Lila getting electrolysis on her face. 4 ) Lila reading Nietzsche. 5 ) Lila jogging.
BEARDED PSYCHOLOGIST: .and so without further ado, I give you Dr. Nathan Bronfman and
NATHAN: Thank you. Let's get right to it. Here we have Puff the day of his
NATHAN: And here he is today, a scant three months later.
NATHAN: Puff, why don't you say a few words to the assemblage.
PUFF: It would be my pleasure, doctor. Distinguished gentlemen and ladies of the psychological community, I stand before you today, a living testament to the amazing skill of Dr. Nathan Bronfman. To say that he took me from crayons to perfume would be a vast understatement. Dr. Bronfman took me from playing with my own feces, then to crayons, and then to an appreciation of the complex works of Franz Kline, Joseph Beuys, and Marcel Duchamp. From compulsive masturbation to.
GABRIELLE: You were wonderful!
NATHAN: Was I? I wasn't a tad stiff?
GABRIELLE: Don't be silly! And you were wonderful, too! I loved the way you said " au revoir."
NATHAN: Come on, you two. Let's go celebrate!
MONTAGE: 6 ) Lila in a Tai Chi class. 7 ) Lila doing jumping jacks. 8 ) Lila reading The Art of War. 9 ) Lila doing stomach crunches. 10 ) Lila doing chin ups. 11 ) Lila swimming laps. 12 ) Lila getting more electrolysis.
NATHAN: Now the tango.
NATHAN: I think it went swimmingly today. You two make an excellent team.
MONTAGE: 13 ) Lila doing one-handed push-ups. 14 ) Lila rolling on the ground with a rifle. 15 ) Lila, in boxing gloves, punching a bag. 16 ) Lila reading the Kama Sutra. 17 ) Lila getting electrolysis.
PUFF: To be taken from the depths of ignorance and depravity and raised to heights of culture and refinement! This is the priceless gift bestowed upon me by Dr. Nathan Bronfman.
MONTAGE: 18 ) Lila does chin ups. Her sweaty, muscular arms glisten in the sun. 19 ) Lila wind sprinting. 20 ) Lila getting electrolysis. Rose moves away from her.
ROSE: ( standing triumphantly )
LILA: ( standing triumphantly )
GABRIELLE: ( off clipboard ) So we've got seventeen new bookings for speaking engagements, my wonderful Terrific. We're all going to be rich and famous.
NATHAN: Terrific. We're all going to be rich and famous.
PUFF: Thanks to you, Nate.
NATHAN: Thanks to you, Buddy. And your diligence and intelligence and
NATHAN: ( to Gabrielle ) And of course to you, my sweet, for your. moral support.
PUFF: ( applauding ) here, here.
MIDGET: Excuse me, are you Dr. Bronfman?
PUFF: Is that a little boy?
NATHAN: ( teaching ) No, Puff. This man is a midget. In actuality, they prefer to be called "Little People." Isn't that correct, my good man?
MIDGET: Yes sir. Little People.
NATHAN: This Little Person is actually a fully grown adult man, Puff, believe it or not, who, due to a genetic anomaly, is miniature but perfectly Turn, please.
PUFF: ( jotting in notebook ) Now, my diminutive friend, what can I do for you?
NATHAN: Now, my diminutive friend, what can I do for you?
MIDGET: You can get into that goddamn Lucite bachelor pad for starters, Goliath.
MIDGET: ( to Puff ) Not you, Joyboy.
NATHAN: What is this about? We have no money on these premises. Please if you are from some little person terrorist fringe group.
MIDGET: ( loud and scary ) Shut up! That's Lila?
NATHAN: That's Lila?
GABRIELLE: That's Lila?
LILA: Shut up! Yeah, this is Lila, cunt. And don't let the hirsutism fool you. I know more about being a woman, and more about the black hearts of men than you, in your pretty little powdered, bullshit fantasy world, can ever imagine. I know the darkness and cruelty of nature, sweetie pie.
NATHAN: Lila, you don't intend to hurt us, do you?
LILA: Eat shit, thumbtack dick! Thank you, Frank. You're the best.
MIDGET: Anything for you, Lila.
LILA: See, Frank and I are kindred spirits. We both know what it's like to be shunned because of our appearance. We both know how easily that turns into self-hatred.
MIDGET: Amen. Praise the Lord and pass the
ROSE: ( to Lila ) Sorry I'm late, parking is a bitch at this place.
LILA: Uh, tie them up, Rosie. If you will.
ROSE: With pleasure.
ROSE: I'm going to miss you.
LILA: Oh, Rosie.
ROSE: And I'm going to miss the lifestyle having you as a client has afforded Shut up, you.
LILA: Shut up, you.
ROSE: I like you so much, with or without But don't spread that around. Bad for business.
LILA: I'm really glad you two found each
MIDGET: We're soul mates.
ROSE: Souls have nothing to do with it, I'll be in touch.
LILA: I'll be in touch.
ROSE: No you won't. But it's okay. You have stuff you gotta do.
LILA: ( choked ) Gotta go.
LILA: Puff stays in the car. Lila gets out, pulls the Lucite mouse case from the back seat.
LILA: Puff gets out casually, then makes a mad dash for the road. Lila calmly presses the button on her black box. Puff spasms and falls to the ground.
LILA: Puff stays on the ground, breathing hard.
LILA: Get up.
LILA: Take off your clothes.
LILA: We're going back to nature, you and I. I'm going to retrain you. I'm going to make you free again if I have to kill you doing it.
PUFF: But I like being human now.
LILA: You what?
PUFF: I want to be the way I was before.
LILA: ( sweet ) Good. I'll show you how, apey.
PUFF: Nice night.
LILA: Talking is to be kept to a minimum. Eventually, when we are ready, there will be none. Language was invented so that people could lie to each other and to themselves. There is no other reason.
PUFF: ( confused ) I agree?
LILA: You lose. Any answer is the wrong
LILA: ( whisper ) You'll thank me eventually, Puff. Well, you won't thank me, because we won't be speaking, but you'll sort of thank me with a special look, the look a dog gives you to let you know he loves you.
PUFF: What an enchanting picture you paint of our future together.
PUFF: And so commenced my reeducation, gentlemen. Lila taught me so much. She was a stern but fair teacher. And over time, I began to remember the carefree joy of living in a pure state of being. But something else happened as well, something perhaps distinctly human. I began to fall in love with Lila.
PUFF: Boy, you look so good from this ang.
GABRIELLE: A penny for your thoughts, mon cheri.
NATHAN: I don't know. Something's missing.
NATHAN: ( uninterested ) So, Mother and Father, how's Godspell How did you know we.
MOTHER: How did you know we.
MOTHER: Tell him, Harold.
FATHER: It's going famously, son, famously!
NATHAN: ( despondent ) I'm glad.
MOTHER: Harold, ask Nathan what's wrong.
GABRIELLE: Yes, please, somebody ask him what is wrong.
NATHAN: I don't know.
NATHAN: I want our boy back.
GABRIELLE: ( sadly ) That bitch. I worked so hard. We worked so hard, you and I. He would've made us famous.
NATHAN: That bitch. I worked so hard. We worked so hard, you and I. He would've made us famous.
GABRIELLE: We still have you and I.
NATHAN: I know. And that's great. But it would be great in a better way, not a better way but a different way, if I could find him and bring him back.
GABRIELLE: Where do we look for little lost I have some thoughts. I think that hairy bitch is somewhere trying to turn him back into an ape.
NATHAN: I have some thoughts. I think that hairy bitch is somewhere trying to turn him back into an ape.
GABRIELLE: That is horrible. Apes are dirty. You better believe they're dirty! And smelly! And messy! And they don't know their forks from their assholes! I'm going alone. This could be Okay, my sweet. Good night.
NATHAN: You better believe they're dirty! And smelly! And messy! And they don't know their forks from their assholes! I'm going alone. This could be Okay, my sweet. Good night.
NATHAN: I'm going alone. This could be Okay, my sweet. Good night.
GABRIELLE: ( pulling covers up and turning away from him onto her side ) Okay, my sweet. Good night.
NATHAN: A little resistance would be nice, damn it.
GABRIELLE: ( without opening her eyes ) Please let me go with you.
NATHAN: DISSOLVE TO:
GABRIELLE: DISSOLVE TO:
NATHAN: ( yelling )
NATHAN: No luck yet, my sweet.
LILA: It was paradise. At least for a tiny little while.
NATHAN: Aha! Finally. I've covered almost the entire seaboard and parts of eastern Ohio.
LILA: Oh please, is that as articulate as you can be after all the time I spent teaching you? We've discussed Wittgenstein, for Christ's sake. Not that you ever had anything very original or challenging to say on the subject.
PUFF: Oh please, is that as articulate as you can be after all the time I spent teaching you? We've discussed Wittgenstein, for Christ's sake. Not that you ever had anything very original or challenging to say on the subject.
NATHAN: Oh please, is that as articulate as you can be after all the time I spent teaching you? We've discussed Wittgenstein, for Christ's sake. Not that you ever had anything very original or challenging to say on the subject.
PUFF: Down from the tree. Both of you. Keep your hands where I can see them. Don't want you pulling any weapons out of your fur.
NATHAN: Down from the tree. Both of you. Keep your hands where I can see them. Don't want you pulling any weapons out of your fur.
NATHAN: Look at you two. You both disgust Oook. Oook.
LILA: Oook. Oook.
NATHAN: Shut up! I gave you. life. I created you in my image, Puff. I took you from this primordial ooze and brought you into the world of culture and art and manners. And this is how you repay me? By heading back to the ooze first chance you get? I should leave you here with Lila the ape woman. It would serve you right, you ungrateful piece of crap. But I'm not going to. You're too valuable to me. Totally selfish of me. You serve my purpose. But if you had any smarts you would realize that I serve your purpose as well. Life is so much more delightful when lived in a silk suit.
LILA: Don't worry, Lila. You can stay. I don't have any interest in you C'mon, monkey boy.
NATHAN: Don't worry, Lila. You can stay. I don't have any interest in you C'mon, monkey boy.
NATHAN: Puff looks at Lila again. She jerks her head in the direction of Nathan. Puff sighs and moves to Nathan. Nathan prods Puff, and they head off through the trees. Suddenly Puff elbows Nathan. Nathan grunts, doubles over. Puff turns, lunges, and the two wrestle on the ground. Puff pries the gun from Nathan's hand, and jumps up. Nathan stands also, backing away. Puff has the gun trained on Nathan. Lila runs to Puff, stands behind him.
NATHAN: Puff, put the gun down.
PUFF: Ounpoo. Ungh.
NATHAN: Let's be reasonable human beings here. We're all reasonable human beings, aren't we?
PUFF: ( jumping up and down like a chimp ) Unka unka unka unka unka.
NATHAN: Look, why don't you and Lila stay here and have your natural life. I'll just go on my way. You'll never see me again.
PUFF: ( to Lila, guiltily ) I have to talk. Is that okay?
PUFF: ( to Nathan ) You did create me in your image, Nathan. Before you I was a simple, happy, complete being, in harmony with the world around me. After you I became duplicitous, cynical, angry, anal, totally out of touch with my surroundings. In a word, Nathan, I became you. Lila has reintroduced me to myself. And, incidentally, what I'm about to do, kill you, is something that would never have occurred to me to do as a creature of the Earth. Before when I killed, it was for food or in self-defense. Now I will kill for revenge. Revenge is an abstract concept, Nathan. And I learned abstract thinking from Puff, don't.
NATHAN: Puff, don't.
LILA: Puff, don't.
LILA: Then I shot Nathan.
PUFF: Then Lila shot Nathan.
NATHAN: Then Puff shot me. Then I died. That's all I know. That's the end of my story. Do I get to go to heaven now? Or is it. hell? Or. what? I just stay here, is it? I just stay here and tell it again? And after that? Again? And after. Yes. Yes, of course.
NATHAN: ( beginning again ) I don't even know what sorry means anymore. It's odd. When I was alive I knew maybe it was all I knew.
LILA: He's dead.
PUFF: ( calmly ) We bury the body. We disappear into the woods. Nobody knows.
LILA: ( beat, then quietly ) No. This is the end of the road. There's a dead human being here. For all of his faults, he was a human being, and certainly a victim of his culture as much as anybody.
PUFF: Forget him, Lila. We'll disappear. We'll never talk about it again. We'll never talk again period. I love you.
LILA: Puff, what happened to you is as much my fault as Nathan's. Maybe more so, because I knew it was wrong and I went along with it anyway. I'm taking responsibility for the murder. I want you to go back to your old I won't let you do that. I shot the bastard. And I'm glad.
PUFF: I won't let you do that. I shot the bastard. And I'm glad.
LILA: No. Go back to the woods. This is a sacrifice I need to make. In my world we have something called penance. It's another abstraction, but I had the concept drummed into my head during my years in the convent. It doesn't exist for you, and it shouldn't. See, I could never be free again anyway, so I might as well be in jail.
PUFF: ( beat ) Then I'll live for both of us, Lila. I'll be the most free, truest animal in the whole forest. For both of us.
LILA: ( tearing up ) That's what I'm counting on.
PUFF: ( an idea ) But first I'll live among them, just long enough to testify before congress about the waywardness of humankind.
LILA: ( shrugs ) Okay. If you think it will help.
PUFF: And so, gentlemen, that is my story. I agreed to testify before this committee because I hoped to convey to the American public that there is indeed a paradise lost. Human beings have become so enamored of their technologies and their intellectual prowess and their fancy gourmet foods, that they've forgotten to look to the Earth as a teacher. This is hubris, my friends. And my story of destruction and betrayal is proof of that. I will keep my promise to Lila. I will shed this suit and go back into the wilderness. I will live out my days naked and free.
CONGRESSMAN: Thank you, sir. Your story has touched us all deeply. We will pass some legislation addressing this problem.
PUFF: Thank you. That is all I ask. Good-bye, Lila. I take you with me in my untamed heart.
OLDER WOMAN: ( turning ) I saw you on C-Span. I've been looking for you for thirty years. Then there you were, such a beautiful, beautiful grown man.
PUFF: ( turning ) I saw you on C-Span. I've been looking for you for thirty years. Then there you were, such a beautiful, beautiful grown man.
OLDER WOMAN: I saw you on C-Span. I've been looking for you for thirty years. Then there you were, such a beautiful, beautiful grown man.
PUFF: OLDER WOMAN
OLDER WOMAN: Yes. Derek.
PUFF: ( formally ) It's a pleasure to meet you, mother. But I'm an ape like dad was. ( checks watch ) And I have to go back into the woods now. forever.
OLDER WOMAN: ( resigned ) Yes, I suppose so. I suppose I knew that was going to be what you would say. It's good to see you again I'm in the book, if you ever want to drop me a line or something.
PUFF: OLDER WOMAN
OLDER WOMAN: I'm in the book, if you ever want to drop me a line or something.
PUFF: I'm an ape, mom. I'm an ape. And apes don't drop lines.
GABRIELLE: Hello, my little boy.
PUFF: Hey, ma. Did you bring any clothes? I'm freezing my ass off.
GABRIELLE: Oui. Nathan's silk suit, just like you asked.
PUFF: ( putting on suit ) God, I've wanted you forever.
GABRIELLE: Say my name.
PUFF: ( eyes glistening ) You remind me so much of Nathan.
GABRIELLE: ( eyes glistening ) You remind me so much of Nathan.
PUFF: Like father, like son.
GABRIELLE: ( stroking his face ) You remind me so much of Nathan plus so much of my little mongrel doggie.
PUFF: This turns Gabrielle on. She kisses him passionately. When the kiss runs its course, Puff speaks.
PUFF: Gabrielle kisses him again, even more passionately this time
PUFF: As much as I loved Nathan, I'm not sorry she killed him, if it means I can have you. Is that a terrible thing to say, my sweet?
GABRIELLE: ( putting her finger to his lips ) Hush. No, it is never terrible to be in love. Nathan's memory lives on in our sacred union. ( beat ) I'm not sorry she killed him either. Nathan was wonderful. He was erudite and sophisticated and charming. You are all that, too. But you have something more. You have a bit of the animal in you.
PUFF: Let's go eat, I'm starved.
GABRIELLE: CUT TO:
PUFF: CUT TO:
THE END: Writers : Charlie Kaufman
