KAUFMAN (V.O.): I am old. I am fat. I am bald. My toenails have turned strange. I am repulsive. How repulsive? I don't know for I suffer from a condition called Body Dysmorphic Disorder. I am fat, but am I as fat as I think? My therapist says no, but people lie. I believe others call me Fatty behind my back. Or Fatso. Or, facetiously, Slim. But I also believe this is simply my own perverted form of self-aggrandizement, that no one really talks about me at all. What possible interest is an old, bald, fat man to anyone? I am repulsive. I have never lived. I blame myself. I --
BRITISH NARRATOR: As natural selection works solely by and for the good of each being, all corporeal and mental endowments will tend to progress towards perfection.
BRITISH NARRATOR: It is interesting to contemplate an entangled bank, clothed with many plants of many kinds, with birds singing...
RUSSELL: Laroche is asleep at the wheel.
RANDY: Crazy White Man is now Drowsy White Man.
ORLEAN (O.S.): (wistful) John Laroche is a tall guy, skinny as a stick, pale-eyed, slouch-shouldered and sharply handsome despite the fact that he is missing all his front teeth.
ORLEAN: Two years ago I went to Florida to meet Laroche after reading a small article about a white man and three Seminole men arrested with rare orchids they'd stolen out of a place called the...
TONY: We got a Seminole, or Seminoles, in the swamp. I'm on Janes Scenic Drive just east of Logging Road Twelve. I repeat, Indians in the swamp. TONY (cont'd) Indians in the swamp.
RADIO VOICE: I don't know what you want me to say.
TONY: Barry, Indians do not go on swamp walks. If there are Indians in the swamp, they are in there for a reason.
KAUFMAN (V.O.): I'm old.   I'm bald. I'm repulsive.
VALERIE: We think you're just great.
KAUFMAN: (with studied modesty) Oh, thank you.
VALERIE: And we're thrilled you're interested.
KAUFMAN: Oh, thanks, wow. That's nice to hear.
VALERIE: You have a really unique voice.
KAUFMAN: Well, thanks. That's... I appreciate that.
VALERIE: Very talented. Really.
KAUFMAN: Thanks.   Thank you.   Thanks.
VALERIE: (looking up) So --
KAUFMAN: Sort of hot in here.
VALERIE: (kindly) Yeah, it is a bit. So, why don't you tell me your thoughts on this crazy little project of ours.
KAUFMAN: First, I think it's a great book.
VALERIE: Laroche is a fun character, isn't he?
KAUFMAN: And Orlean makes orchids so fascinating. Plus her musings on Florida, orchid poaching. Indians. Great, sprawling New Yorker stuff. I'd want to remain true to that, let the movie exist rather than be artificially plot driven.
VALERIE: Okay, great, great. I guess I'm not exactly sure what that means.
KAUFMAN: Oh. Well... I'm not sure exactly yet either. So... y'know, it's...
VALERIE: Oh.    Okay.     Great.   So, um, what --
KAUFMAN: It's just, I don't want to compromise by making it a Hollywood product. An orchid heist movie. Or changing the orchids into poppies and turning it into a movie about drug running. Y'know?
VALERIE: Oh, of course. We agree.        Definitely.
KAUFMAN: Or cramming in sex, or car chases, or guns. Or characters learning profound life lessons. Or characters growing or characters changing or characters learning to like each other or characters overcoming obstacles to succeed in the end. Y'know? Movie shit.
VALERIE: See, we thought maybe Susan Orlean and Laroche could fall in love during the course of --
KAUFMAN: Alienated journalist writes about passionate backwoods guy and he teaches her to love. I mean, it didn't happen, it wouldn't happen. It's Hollywood.
KAUFMAN: So anyway I just wanted to stop by to congratulate you on your promotion.
MARGARET: Well, thanks again.   It's all so stupid.
KAUFMAN: I think it's great. Your photo in the trades and everything. Pretty cool.
MARGARET: Anyway.    Yeah. So what's up with you?
KAUFMAN: I'm considering jobs. Mostly crap. There's one you might like, about flowers.
MARGARET: Flowers?   Really? What is it?
KAUFMAN: They want me to do an adaptation of a book called The Orchid Thief.
MARGARET: Oh my God! You're kidding?    I read that! I loved that book! MARGARET (cont'd) See, see, see! I'm not lying to you!
KAUFMAN: I loved the book.
MARGARET: Oh, Charlie, orchids are the most amazing flowers. So complex.
KAUFMAN: I know.   They're really great.
MARGARET: You should take this job. Doesn't it sound exciting, to immerse yourself in a real subject and learn everything about it? Blake wrote about seeing heaven in a wild flower. And after you learn all this stuff, you can teach me!
KAUFMAN: (thrilled but controlled) That'd be fun.
MARGARET: God, they're such beautiful flowers.    And so sexy. Y'know? (whispering) Did you know that orchid means --
KAUFMAN: Testicle.     I just read that.
MARGARET: (shrieks with delight) Testicle! Can you believe it! MARGARET (cont'd) I swear, it'd be fucking great for someone to have the testicles to make that book into a movie, man. Instead of this bullshit all the time. Something not about sex and violence and car chases and love stories, people learning profound lessons. Jesus, isn't nature enough?
LAROCHE: Pseudemys floridana. Did you fellas know you fellas believe the world rests on the back of a turtle? Not you fellas specifically. Although, maybe you fellas specifically. That I can't speak to. LAROCHE (cont'd) Polyrrhiza Lindenii. A ghost. LAROCHE (cont'd) Cut it down, Russell.
KAUFMAN: ...plus I love the idea of learning all about orchids. I really admire those guys who know everything about ants or fungus or whatever. I'd like to be more like that. See, I tend to write self- involved, self-loathing... even masturbatory stuff.
VALERIE: And it's wonderful, by the way.
KAUFMAN: Thanks. That's nice to hear. But I need to challenge myself as a writer. I've arrived at an age where I want to think about the world in a different way.
VALERIE: Adapting someone else's work is certainly an opportunity to think differently.
KAUFMAN: Yes. And I welcome the challenge of taking a small subject, like orchids, something that would never draw people into a theater and making that fascinating. I want to show people heaven in a wildflower. As Blake wrote.
BOY: Any one at all, ma? BOY (cont'd) I want this then.
MOTHER: (hugging him) A wonderful choice! And spiritually significant! Did you know that Native Americans believe the whole world rests on the back of a turtle?
BOY: Cool!   I can't wait to tell the guys.
MARGARET: To a fucking awesome assignment, man.
KAUFMAN: Hey, I'm going to an orchid show Sunday? For research? Maybe you'll come?
MARGARET: Absolutely. I think David, this guy I'm seeing, would enjoy it, too. He's a real naturalist. Okay if he comes along?
KAUFMAN: (covering heartbreak) Yeah, of course. Sure.
MARGARET: He wants to meet you anyway.     All I do is tell him how great you are.
KAUFMAN: Oh, thanks. That's nice to hear.
MARGARET: You'll like him. He's so honest and smart. It's rare to find someone in this town who thinks about things other than this fucking business, y'know?
KAUFMAN: Yeah.     That's great.   He sounds great.
MARGARET: Like the other day we were in bed discussing Hegel. Hegel! In bed! It was fucking amazing. Have you read much?
KAUFMAN: Y'know, a long time ago.   A bit.   Y'know.
MARGARET: Well, anyway, David and I were discussing his Philosophy of History and I was... MARGARET (cont'd) ... struck by his notion that history is a human construct...
KAUFMAN: Yeah.
MARGARET: ... that nature doesn't exist historically, but rather cyclically.
RADIO VOICE: How's that Injun round-up going, Tony?
TONY: Fuck you, Barry, you fuckin'... TONY (cont'd) We got poachers. (into the radio, pleased) We got fuckin' poachers, Barry.   Ha!
ORLEAN (V.O.): Orchid hunting is a mortal occupation.
ORLEAN (V.O.): The Victorian-era orchid hunter William Arnold drowned on a collecting expedition.
ORLEAN (V.O.): Schroeder fell to his death.
ORLEAN (V.O.): Endres was shot dead in Rio Hacha.
ORLEAN (V.O.): Augustus Margary survived toothache, rheumatism, pleurisy, and dysentery... ORLEAN (V.O.) (cont'd) ... only to be murdered when he completed his mission and traveled beyond Bhamo. ORLEAN (V.O.) (cont'd) Laroche loved orchids but I came to believe he loved the difficulty and fatality of getting them almost as much as he loved the orchids themselves.
TONY: Morning. May I ask what you gentlemen have in those pillowcases?
LAROCHE: Yes, sir, you absolutely may.
TONY: Okay, I'm asking then.
LAROCHE: Oh, Okay then! Let's see... (peeking in bags) Five kinds of bromeliad, one peperomia, nine orchid varieties. About a hundred and thirty plants all told, which my colleagues have removed from the swamp.
TONY: You're aware that it's illegal to remove plants or animals from state owned land?
LAROCHE: And don't forget these plants are all endangered, sir. Every one of them.
TONY: Exactly. Well, that's exactly the issue. This is a state preserve.
LAROCHE: Yes, sir, it is. (afterthought) Oh, and my colleagues are all Seminole Indians. Did I mention that? You're familiar, I'm sure, with the State of Florida v. James E. Billie. LAROCHE (cont'd) So you know that even though Seminole Chief Billie killed a Florida panther, one of, what, forty in the entire world? LAROCHE (cont'd) The state couldn't successfully prosecute him. Because he's an Indian and it's his right. As repugnant as you or I as white conservationists might find his actions.
TONY: But --
LAROCHE: Not to mention the failed attempts on three separate occasions to prosecute Seminoles for poaching palm fronds, which, I believe, they use to thatch the roofs of their traditional chickee huts.
RUSSELL: He's right. That's exactly what we use them for. Chickee huts.
RANDY: Yeah.
VINSON: Yeah.
RUSSELL: Yeah.
TONY: Yeah, but I don't... I can't let you fellas go yet. Just hold on while I... (into radio) Hey, Barry, can I get some help? Barry?
ORLEAN: Nothing in Florida seems hard or permanent. The developed places are just little clearings in the jungle, but the jungle is unstoppably fertile, everything is always growing or expanding. At the same time, the wilderness disappears before your eyes.
KAUFMAN (V.O.): I am fat. I am repulsive.   I cannot bear my own reflection.
DONALD: Did you open your present from mom yet?
KAUFMAN: What's with you?
DONALD: My back. DONALD (cont'd) Hey, Charles, you'll be glad, I have a plan to get me out of your house pronto.
KAUFMAN: A job is a plan. Is your plan a job?
DONALD: (big build up) I'm gonna be a screenwriter!   Like you! DONALD (cont'd) I know you think this is just one of my get-rich-quick schemes. But I'm doing it right this time. I'm taking a seminar!
DONALD (O.S.): It's only five hundred bucks!
KAUFMAN: (muffled by pillow) Screenwriting seminars are bullshit.
DONALD (O.S.): In theory I agree with you. But this one is highly regarded within the industry.
KAUFMAN: Donald, don't say "industry."
DONALD: I'm sorry, I forgot. Charles, this guy knows screenwriting. People from all over come to study his method. I'll pay you back, man. As soon as I sell --
KAUFMAN: Let me explain something to you.
DONALD: Yeah, okay.
KAUFMAN: Anybody who says he's got "the answer" is going to attract desperate people. Be it in the world of religion --
DONALD: (indicating his back) I just need to lie down while you explain this to me. Sorry. I apologize. (lies down, stares at ceiling) Okay, go ahead. Sorry. Okay. Go.
KAUFMAN: There are no rules to follow, Donald, and anybody who says there are, is just --
DONALD: Not rules, principles. McKee writes: "A rule says, you must do it this way.   A principle says, this works... and has through all remembered time."
KAUFMAN: The script I'm starting, it's about flowers. No one's ever done a movie about flowers before. So, there're no guidelines, and that's good because --
DONALD: What about Flowers for Algernon?
KAUFMAN: That's not about flowers.    And it's not a movie.
DONALD: Oh, okay, I never saw it.    Go ahead.
KAUFMAN: My point is, those teachers are dangerous if your goal is to do something new. And a writer should always have that goal. Writing is a journey into the unknown. It's not building a model airplane.
KAUFMAN (V.O.): Each being is, because posited, an op- posited, a conditional and conditioning, the Understanding completes these its limitations by positing the opposite...
DONALD: McKee is a former Fulbright scholar. Are you a former Fulbright scholar, Charles?
BOY: Turtles are of the order Testudine!
MOTHER: Really?    Testudine?
BOY: Yeah. And they're found on every continent! Except Antarptica!
MOTHER: Antarctica. Every continent, huh?
BOY: Uh-huh. The turtle shell has remained unchanged for two hundred million years! And there's all different kinds, Pelusio gabonensis, Phyrnops rufipes, Chitra indica, Dermochelys coriacea coriacea...
LAROCHE: ... and what we have here, my friend, is ... thirteen Encyclia Cochleata... four Encyclia Tampensis --
MIKE OWEN: I'm sorry, Encyclia what?
LAROCHE: (pointing to each) Coch-le-ata. Tem-pen-sis. (checks Owen's spelling) Okay, let's see, twenty-two Epidendrum Nocturnum. A very good haul. Two Catopsi Floribunda. Three Polyrrhiza Lindenii, the ghost orchid. What I really came for. These sweeties grow nowhere in the U.S. except in your swamp.
MIKE OWEN: That true? Boy, you really know your plants, Mr. Laroche.
LAROCHE: Yeah. I do. I'm one of the world's foremost experts. But that'll all be revealed at the hearing.
KAUFMAN (V.O.): The Orchidaceae is a large, ancient family of perennial plants with...
DONALD (V.O.): The most memorable, fascinating characters tend to have not only a conscious but an unconscious desire. Although these characters are unaware of their subconscious need...
KAUFMAN: Maybe you should watch what you eat, Donald. Did you ever consider maybe you're a bit fat? Does it ever occur to you, you kind of represent me in the world? That people look at you and think, he's Charlie's twin, therefore that's what Charlie must look like?
DONALD: By the way, mom's paying for the seminar.
KAUFMAN: Did you even hear what I said?
DONALD: Yeah. Anyway. I pitched mom my screenplay --
KAUFMAN: Jesus, don't say "pitch."
DONALD: Sorry. Anyway, she loved my... telling of my story to her. She said it's like "Silence of the Lambs" meets "Psycho."
KAUFMAN: Hey, maybe you and mom could collaborate. I hear she's really good with structure.
DONALD: You think you're so superior, Charles. Well, I'm really gonna write this. And you'll see. And, and... you suck, okay?
KAUFMAN (V.O.): Florida is a landscape of transition...
DONALD (V.O.): Do not proliferate characters; do not multiply locations. Rather than hopscotching through time, space, and people, discipline yourself to a reasonably contained cast and world...
ORLEAN: Florida is a landscape of transition and mutation, a hybrid of unruliness and orderliness, nature and artifice.
KAUFMAN (V.O.): We open on State Road 29. A lonely stretch of road cutting through untamed swampland. Suddenly a beat-up white van barrels around a curve. It's driver: a skinny man with no front teeth...
LERNER: Finally, Mr. Laroche, what is your experience in the area of horticulture?
LAROCHE: Okay, I've been a professional horticulturist for twelve years. I've owned a plant nursery of my own which was destroyed by the hurricane. I'm a professional plant lecturer. I've given at least sixty lectures on the cultivation of plants. I'm a published author, both in magazine and book form. I have extensive experience with orchids, and the asexual micropropagation of orchids under aseptic cultures.   This is laboratory work, not at all like your nursery work. (grins) I'm probably the smartest person I know.
LERNER: Thank you.
LAROCHE: You're very welcome.
KAUFMAN: What?!
DONALD: Look, you wanna hear my pitch, or what?
KAUFMAN: Go away.    God damn it.
DONALD: (lost) Y'know, I'm just trying to do something.
DONALD (CONT'D): Hey, thanks a lot, man. Cool. (flicks on light, then in pitch mode:) Okay, there's this serial killer, right --
DONALD (CONT'D): No, wait. See, he's being hunted by a cop. And he's taunting the cop, right? Sending clues who his next victim is. He's already holding her hostage in his creepy basement. So the cop gets obsessed with figuring out her identity, and in the process he falls in love with her. Even though he's never even met her. She becomes, like, the unattainable, like the Holy Grail.
KAUFMAN: (through a blanket) It's a little obvious, don't you think?
DONALD: Okay, but there's a twist. See, we find out the killer suffers from multiple personality disorder. Okay? See, he's really also the cop and the girl. All of them. It's all him! Isn't that crazy?
KAUFMAN: Look, the only idea more overused than serial killers, is multiple personality. On top of that you explore the notion that cop and criminal are really two aspects of the same person. See every cop movie ever made for other examples of this.
DONALD: Mom called it psychologically taut.
KAUFMAN: The other thing is, there's no way to write this. Did you consider that? I mean, how exactly would you show a character holding himself hostage?
DONALD: Trick photography?
KAUFMAN: Okay, that's not what I'm asking. What I'm asking is in the reality of this movie, if there's only one character, right?... Okay? How could you... What exactly would the scene... How... KAUFMAN (cont'd) I agree with mom. Very taut. Sybil meets.. I dunno, something very taut.
LAROCHE: They're gonna fucking crucify me.
BAXLEY: I'll go into the Fakahatchee with a chainsaw. I swear to God.
LERNER: Buster, for crying out loud, I reminded her the Indians used to own Fakahatchee. Look, we'll deal with all this at trial.
ORLEAN: Mr. Laroche?
ORLEAN (CONT'D): My name's Susan Orlean, I'm a writer for the New Yorker. It's a maga --
LAROCHE: I'm familiar with the New Yorker. The New Yorker, yes, the New Yorker. Right?
ORLEAN: Right. So I was interested in doing a piece about your situation down here.
LAROCHE: Yeah? Put this in: I don't care what goes on here. I'm right, and I'll take this all the way to the Supreme Court. That judge can screw herself. LAROCHE (cont'd) That for real would go in?
SENSUOUS FEMALE NARRATOR: The Orchidaceae is a large, ancient family of perennial plants with one fertile stamen and a three petalled flower. In most orchid species, one petal is enlarged into a lip and is the most conspicuous part of the flower.
KAUFMAN (V.O.): The Orchidaceae is a large, ancient...
ALICE: So what looks good today?
KAUFMAN: Um. Hi. Thank you. The key lime pie, please. A small slice. I'm watching my... And a coffee, please. Skim milk.
ALICE: (sees book) Orchids! I absolutely love orchids.
KAUFMAN: Yes.   They're really great.
ALICE: So, I'll be right back with your pie.
ALICE: (I love you) I absolutely love orchids.
ORLEAN: (to camera) A few days after the hearing, Laroche took me to an orchid show in Miami. ORLEAN (cont'd) Hi.   Thanks for picking --
LAROCHE: I want you to know this van is a piece of shit. When I hit the jackpot, I'll buy myself an awesome car, maybe an Aurora. LAROCHE (cont'd) Sit on top of that. You won't hurt it.
LAROCHE: The thing you gotta know is my whole life is looking for a goddamn profitable plant. And that's the ghost.
ORLEAN: Why the ghost orchid?
LAROCHE: The sucker's rare. Collectors covet what is not available. I'm the only one in the world who knows how to cultivate it. LAROCHE (cont'd) The plan was, get the Indians to pull it from the swamp. I researched it. As long as I don't touch the plants, Florida can't touch us.   Then I'd clone hundreds of them babies in my lab, sell 'em, and make the Seminoles a shitload of change.
ORLEAN (V.O.): Men from Florida dominated the orchid hunting scene. Hunters in the Fakahatchee hauled out thousands of orchids in horse-drawn flatbed carts.
KAUFMAN (V.O.): A beautiful orange orchid blooms in time- lapse --
DONALD: Cool.
KAUFMAN: What do you want, Donald?
DONALD: Nothing. I just read about that Swamp Ape that supposedly lives in the swamp? Like bigfoot? You should put that in your script, like, killing people or something. That'd be very, very cool.
KAUFMAN: Why are you in here now?
DONALD: Nothing, I was just... Oh, one thing, I need a cool way to kill people. Don't worry! For my script! Ha ha!
KAUFMAN: Um, okay, killer's a literature professor who cuts off little chunks of his victims' bodies until they die. He'd be known in the tabloids as "The Deconstructionist."
DONALD: That's kinda good.   I like that.
KAUFMAN: See, I was kidding, Donald.
DONALD: Oh, okay. Sorry. You got me! Heh-heh. Do you mind if I use it, though?
MOTHER: (praying softly) For certain is death for the born/And certain is birth for the dead/Therefore over the inevitable/Thou shouldst not grieve. Sweet, sweet Diane.
MOTHER (CONT'D): A slice of pie for my turtle expert?
BOY: Mom, there's something I feel I have to do. I don't know how to do this, but I feel in my stomach that I have to.
MOTHER: What do you have to do, honey?
BOY: Collect one of every turtle in the world. (beat) It's a long list, ma. Cuora galbinifrons, Graptemys versa, Callagur borneoensis, all the Galapagos species, people think there's only one, but that's hardly the case. Cycloderma frenatum, Cuora pani... (sighs) I don't think my life is worth living if I can't do this.
MOTHER: Well, we'd better get started, huh, baby?
ORLEAN: Wow, that's some story. So how many turtles did you end up collecting?
LAROCHE: (matter-of-fact) Oh, I lost interest right after that.
ORLEAN: Oh.
LAROCHE: I dropped turtles when I fell in love with Ice Age fossils. Learned everything about them. Collected the shit out of 'em. Fossils were the only thing made any sense to me in this fucking world. Y'know?
LAROCHE (CONT'D): Then fossils were over when I found lapidary, which I just adored.
ORLEAN: Okay, now what is lap --
LAROCHE: Ditched lapidary for resilvering old mirrors. Did that with my mom for a while. We had the largest collection of 19th Century Dutch mirrors on the planet. Perhaps you read about us. Mirror World October '88? I have a copy somewhere...
ORLEAN: So, did you ever miss the turtles? The only thing that made you ten year old life worth living?
LAROCHE: I'll tell you a story. I once fell deeply, profoundly in love with tropical fish. I had sixty goddamn fish tanks in my house. I'd skin-dive to find just the right ones. Anisotremus virginicus, Holacanthus ciliaris, Chaetodon capistratus. You name it. Then one day I say, fuck fish. I renounce fish.
ORLEAN: (beat) But why?
LAROCHE: (shrugs) Done with fish.
THERAPIST: So --
KAUFMAN: I'm still obsessed with that girl.
THERAPIST: The Burger King girl? Dimples and sparkly eyes?
KAUFMAN: California Pizza Kitchen.
THERAPIST: Oh.    Red hair and nice?   Likes orchids?
KAUFMAN: Yeah. She's really nice. I feel pretty certain she likes me maybe.
THERAPIST: So do you think you'll talk to this one?
KAUFMAN: Hi!
ALICE: Hey!    Some key lime pie for ya today?
KAUFMAN: (thrilled she remembered) Okay, yeah! That sounds great!     Yeah!
ALICE: I'll pick you out an extra large piece. Preferred customer.
KAUFMAN: Thank you.     That's really sweet of you.
ALICE: Still reading about orchids, I hope.
KAUFMAN: Yes, I am, in fact!    Beautiful flowers.
ALICE: A friend of mine has a pretty little pink one, grows right on a tree branch.
KAUFMAN: That's what's called an epiphyte.
ALICE: (pointing at him excitedly) Right! Boy, you know your stuff, huh?
KAUFMAN: Not really. I'm just learning. Epiphytes grow on trees, but they're not parasites. They get all their nourishment from the air and rain.
ALICE: Well, I'm impressed.    That's great.
KAUFMAN: There are more than thirty thousand kinds of orchids in the world.
ALICE: Wow, that's a lot, huh? Okay, then, so I'll be right back with a nice big slice of key lime pie for my orchid expert.
KAUFMAN: But, so, anyway, I was also wondering... KAUFMAN (cont'd) I'm going up to this orchid show on Saturday in Santa Barbara and I --
ALICE: Oh, um, well --
KAUFMAN: I'm sorry.     I apologize.   I'm sorry.
ALICE: (nodding) So I'll be right back with your pie then.
KAUFMAN (V.O.): I am fat.     I am old. I am repulsive.
ORLEAN: There are more than thirty thousand known orchid species. One species looks like a German shepherd...
ORLEAN (V.O.): ... one looks like an onion, one looks like an octopus. One looks...
TEENAGED LAROCHE: Encyclia tempensis. The butterfly.
MOTHER: "You will find something more in woods than in books. Trees and stones will teach you that which you can never learn from masters." Saint Bernard said that.
TEENAGED LAROCHE: That's pretty, ma.
MOTHER: Diane would've loved this flower, Johnny.
TEENAGED LAROCHE: Maybe somehow she can see it.    Y'know?
MOTHER: (beat) So... after this one how many, honey?
TEENAGED LAROCHE: Only one hundred and seventeen more.
MOTHER: And you have to have a photo of every single type of orchid in Florida?
TEENAGED LAROCHE: I have to, ma. You know that.
KAUFMAN: I'm successful, right? I mean, I could say to a woman, I'm a screenwriter and she'd look at me differently. I could get laid. But I want someone to like me. For me. Y'know?    The way I like them. The way I'd do anything for that woman walking down the street. A million women walking down the street. I don't need to know what their jobs are. No one will ever love me like that. Like I love almost every woman I see.
LAROCHE: Once you get the sickness, it takes over your life. I started out just photographing 'em. Now look at me. (dramatic pause) It'll happen to you. You'll see.
ORLEAN: I don't think so.     I'm not prone to --
LAROCHE: Angraecum sesquipedale! Beauty! God! Darwin wrote about this one. Charles Darwin? Evolution guy? Hello?
ORLEAN: (annoyed) I know who Darwin is.
DARWIN (V.O.): Therefore I should infer from analogy that probably all the organic beings which have ever lived on this earth have descended from some one primordial form, into which life was first breathed.
KAUFMAN: Okay, opening of movie. Four billion years ago. Life has not begun. Endless, barren terrain. Silence. Silence.
LAROCHE: See that nectary all the way down there? Darwin hypothesized a moth with a nose twelve inches long to pollinate it. Everyone thought he was a loon. Then, sure enough, they found this moth with a twelve inch proboscis -- proboscis means nose, by the way -- and --
ORLEAN: I know what proboscis means.
LAROCHE: Every one of these flowers has a specific relationship with the insect that pollinates it. There's an orchid that looks exactly like this particular insect. So the bug humps the flower and gets covered with its pollen. Thusly...
ORLEAN: I get it.
LAROCHE: That's called pseudo-copulation. These flowers are smart! You gotta fall in love with them. Once you learn anything about orchids, you'll devote your life to learning everything about them.
ORLEAN: I wanted to want something as much as people wanted these plants but it isn't part of my constitution. ORLEAN (cont'd) I suppose I do have one unembarrassed passion. (beat, looks back at us) I want to know how it feels to care about something passionately.
KAUFMAN (V.O.): ... then, after the entire history of life on the planet, in the last seconds of the montage, we see the whole of human history: tool-making, hunting, farming, war, lust, religion, self-consciousness. Yearning. Then, bam! cut to Susan Orlean writing a book about orchids. And the story begins. It's perfect! It's circular! It's everything!
KAUFMAN (CONT'D): I'm an idiot. I'm fat. I hate my--
DONALD: McKee is a genius! And hilarious! He just comes up with these great jokes, and everyone laughs! But he's serious, too. You'd love him. He's all for originality, just like you! But he says, we have to realize we all write in a genre, so we must find originality within that genre. See, it turns out there hasn't been a new genre since Fellini invented the mockumentary!
KAUFMAN: (sadly, quietly) You and I share the same DNA. Is there anything more lonely than that?
HUSBAND: You want to do something tonight?
ORLEAN: I should work. I've got stuff...
ORLEAN (V.O.): Laroche is an optimist. That is, he sees a profitable outcome in every situation. When he was a young man he worked in construction.
LAROCHE: (pleased with himself) Asclepiadaceae. From thirty yards.   Yes.
LAROCHE: (laughing) ... I broke my back. Exactly how my dad did. Isn't that a psycho coincidence? (far away) Y'know, the way I see it, we're a family of ailments and pain. (suddenly excited.) But, anyway, it was a godsend.
ORLEAN (V.O.): Laroche once spilled toxic pesticide into a cut on his hand. It resulted in permanent heart and liver damage. Most people would consider this a terrible accident. Laroche considered it a success...
ORLEAN (V.O.): ... because he sold an article about it.
LAROCHE: I consider the broken back -- in three places, by the way. I have x-rays -- (fishes through bag) -- a stroke of goddamn luck. I got disability, married the sweetest woman in the world. And me and my lovely new wife -- my now ex-wife, the bitch -- got to open our nursery.
KAUFMAN (V.O.): Movie opens with Susan Orlean typing. (refers to Orchid Thief) "John Laroche is a tall guy, skinny as a stick... (stops, flips through book) Movie opens with a young boy picking out his first pet... (stops, flips through book) Movie opens with...
LAROCHE: People started coming out of the woodwork, to ask me stuff, to admire my plants, to admire me.
CUSTOMER #1: John, what is this? It's so beautiful.
LAROCHE: Catasetum tenebrosum. From Peru. It's neat 'cause its dimorphic, which means...
CUSTOMER #2: Johnny baby!
LAROCHE: Henry! Look at that Dracula vampira! It's gorgeous, man.
CUSTOMER #2: Take me in to the Fakahatchee. Show me a ghost in bloom, and it's yours.
LAROCHE: Cool.
CUSTOMER #3: Mr. Laroche, would you be able to --
LAROCHE: Bromeliad Tree. Hey, Dora! Good, good. Well, sure, you gotta watch the temperature. Don't want an odontoglossum above seventy-five. Uh-huh, that should be fine. Yeah, damp it down. Oh, I'm doing well. She's fine, too. Sure...
LAROCHE: I believe some folks'd call me up to talk and just talk because they were lonely. LAROCHE (cont'd) You know why I love plants? Because they're so mutable, so adaptable. Adaptation is such a profound process. (beat) Adaptation means you figure out how to survive in the world. People aren't too good at that sometimes.
KAUFMAN: I don't know how to adapt this. I should've just stuck with my own stuff. I don't know why I thought I could --
JERRY: See her?   I fucked her up the ass.
JERRY: Just kidding. Hey, maybe I can help. What's the problem, buddy?
KAUFMAN: It's about flowers.
JERRY: It's not only about flowers. It's got that crazy plant nut guy. He's funny, right?
KAUFMAN: "There is not nearly enough of him to fill a book," blah blah blah, so Orlean "digresses in long passes" blah blah blah "no narrative really unites these passages." Blah blah blah blah blah. (looking up defiantly)
(MORE): KAUFMAN (cont'd) New York Times Book Review. I can't structure this. It's that sprawling New Yorker shit.
JERRY: Oh man.   I'd fuck her up the ass.
KAUFMAN: There's no story. The book has no story.
JERRY: So make one up. The book's a jumping off point. No one in town can make up a crazy story like you. You're the king.
KAUFMAN: I didn't want to do that this time. It's someone else's material. I have a responsibility... Anyway, I wanted to grow as a writer, do something profound and simple. Show people how amazing flowers are.
JERRY: Are they amazing?
KAUFMAN: I don't know. I think they are.
JERRY: Look, what I tell a lot of guys is pick another film and use it as a model. I always thought this one could be like Apocalypse Now. The journalist spends the whole movie searching for the crazy plant nut guy -- what's his name?
KAUFMAN: John Laroche.
JERRY: She has to travel deep into the darkest swamps to find the mysterious "Laroche."
KAUFMAN: I need you to get me out of this.
JERRY: Charlie, at the end of the day, I think it would be a terrible career move.
KAUFMAN (V.O.): Okay, okay, we open with Laroche. He's funny. Okay, he says, okay, he says, I love to mutate plants, he says, mutation is fun... Okay, we show flowers and, okay, we have to have the court case. Okay we show Laroche, okay, he says, I was mutated as baby, that's why I'm so smart...that's funny. Okay we open at the beginning of time...no, okay, we open with Laroche driving into the swamp...
ORLEAN (V.O.): The pioneer-adventurers in Florida had to travel inward, into a place as dark and dense as steel wool. They had to confront what a dark, dense, overabundant place might have hidden in it.
LAROCHE: The nursery was going well, but sometimes bad things happen. Darkness descends.
LAROCHE: Sure you don't want to come, dad?
UNCLE JIM: Nursery business good, Johnny?
LAROCHE: Everything's good, Uncle Jim. This last year's been a dream, I'm telling you. We're finally pulling out of this debt.
MOTHER: Amen, honey. Praise Allah, Buddha, Vishnu. And all the rest of 'em.
LAROCHE: She divorced me soon after she regained consciousness. Then the hurricane destroyed my greenhouse. Everything. I knew it would break my heart to start another nursery, so when the Seminoles wanted a white guy, an expert, to get their nursery going, I took it.
LAROCHE: But I wasn't gonna give them a conventional little potted-plant place. So I came up with the "ghost" plan.   I was gonna give them something amazing.
KAUFMAN: ... see, Laroche researched it and found that Indians have the legal right to take endangered plants off state lands.
WOMAN: What an amazing opening! So then it's a courtroom drama. A Few Good Men! And all those Indian rights issues are so complex. There are valid arguments on both sides. I mean we took their land! We gave them smallpox!
KAUFMAN: Well, actually, there wasn't much of a trial. Florida got 'em on a technicality, about cutting down non- endangered trees. Even the Indians aren't allowed to do that. They all plead no contest. Laroche got fined five hundred bucks and banned from the Fakahatchee for six months.
WOMAN: Oh, wow.      So, like, then what happens?
KAUFMAN: Nothing much. That's what I like. I mean, most people's lives don't include a lot of drama and I wanted to sort of be compelling without having to resort to big, um... Y'know what I mean?
WOMAN: (glancing distractedly around) Absolutely. I absolutely do.
KAUFMAN: It's, like, Blake talked about seeing the world in a grain of sand and heaven in a wild flower. Y'know? Or like Hegel?
KAUFMAN (V.O.): I am a failure. I'm a poseur. I have no ideas. I wanted to do something great. There's no story. I'm fat. I'm repuls--
KAUFMAN (CONT'D): What?
VALERIE (PHONE VOICE): Charlie?   It's Valerie.
KAUFMAN: Oh, hi.    Hi. Hey!   Hi!
VALERIE (PHONE VOICE): Sorry to bug you. We were just talking about you, how excited we are.
KAUFMAN: Yeah, me too.
VALERIE (PHONE VOICE): So it's coming along good?
KAUFMAN: It's good. It's complicated what I'm trying to do, but it's going very well.
LAROCHE (PHONE VOICE): Yeah.
ORLEAN: Hello, John? It's Susan.
LAROCHE (PHONE VOICE): Susie-Q!
ORLEAN: So I was thinking it'd be good for the article for me to go into the Fakahatchee to see a ghost. Would you take me?
LAROCHE (PHONE VOICE): I'd love to, but, hey, I'm banned for the next six months. Goddamn crucified me. Get one of them monkey-suited rangers to take you. 'Course, they wouldn't be able to locate a ghost, if it climbed off a tree and shoved itself up their ass. Hey, put that in the article.
KAUFMAN: (calling off-screen) Travelling into the Fakahatchee, Donald, is a perfect metaphor for writing. I'm stepping into the confusion of the unknown. I'm taking the big risk here.
KAUFMAN: It's dark, dangerous, as dense as steel wool. I don't know if I'll come out alive, but if I do, I'll have something true to give the world. That's the difference between writing and aping some moron's "principles."
DONALD: Hey, Charles, I'm thinking of putting a song in. Y'know like when characters sing pop songs in their pajamas and dance around. I thought it might be a nice way to break the tension. So, try to think of a song about split personality...
ORLEAN: You would have to want something very badly...
ORLEAN (V.O.): ... to go looking for it in the Fakahatchee Strand.
KAUFMAN: Hey!    How was Denver?
STEWARDESS: Oh, God, sweetie, I'm so glad to be home. STEWARDESS (cont'd) Can I get you something to drink?
ORLEAN (V.O.): An early surveyor made this entry in his field notes...
SURVEYOR (V.O.): A pond surrounded by bay and cypress swamp, impracticable. Full of monstrous alligators, counted fifty and stopped.
ORLEAN (V.O.): Whatever isn't wet in the Fakahatchee is blasted. The grass gets so dry that the friction from a car can set it on fire, and the burning grass can engulf the car in flames. A 1940's botanist noted:
BOTANIST (V.O.): Most impressed by the area's variety of squirrels...
ORLEAN: The swamp's darkness and denseness can rattle your nerves. A sailor on a pluma- collecting expedition wrote in his diary:
SAILOR (V.O.): The place looked wild and lonely. About three o'clock it seemed to get on Henry's nerves. We saw him crying, he could not tell us why, he was just plain scared.
ORLEAN: The swampy part of the Fakahatchee is hot and wet and buggy and full of cottonmouth snakes and diamond back rattlers and...
ORLEAN (V.O.): ... alligators and snapping turtles and poisonous plants and wild hogs and...
MIKE OWEN: Charlie?
KAUFMAN: (tremulous) Yes. Hi.
MIKE OWEN: So the whole ecosystem is six thousand years old. Five to six thousand years old. About that. Five or six.
KAUFMAN: Okay.
MIKE OWEN: Now the Fakahatchee is the largest of all the cyrpess strands, probably in the world. I don't know of any cypress strand bigger. It's about twenty miles long, or nineteen, nineteen to twenty, nineteen... and right here it's about five miles wide, four and a half, five. So, again, it's twenty miles long, three to five miles wide. And over here --
MIKE OWEN: The oldest carbon dating they've done on any of the peat out here is fifty-seven hundred years. That's with carbon-14.
(MORE): MIKE OWEN (cont'd) That's in the right age where you can really date things accurately with carbon- 14, because it's half-life is fifty-five hundred years, so they must have found have of it gone and figured that...
KAUFMAN: Why isn't it wet? Orlean wrote about wading through black, corrosive water. She said it was the scariest experience of her life. And when I spoke to you on the phone, you said wear heavy boots, long pants and...
MIKE OWEN: There's usually water. We've been going through a bit of a drought. Say, have you seen that movie, Medicine Man? That's a good movie about protecting nature. It shows there could be something important in a rain forest we don't even know about, like a cure for cancer.
KAUFMAN: It's not even hot. I was expecting it to be awful. Sun beating down, wading through water, looking out for snakes, wild hogs. I was thinking it would be dramatic. Alligators. Something!
MIKE OWEN: The alligators are over by the lakes. The temperature's a blessing for us. This time of year can get uncomfortably hot. (pointing excitedly) Green anole. Florida's most common. MIKE OWEN (cont'd) I try to keep a log of sightings.
ORLEAN (V.O.): It had been a hard day and I hadn't seen what I'd come to see. Maybe the ghost orchid was a ghost after all.
(MORE): ORLEAN (V.O.) (cont'd) There are certainly ghosts in the Fakahatchee -- ghosts of rangers who were murdered years ago by illegal plume hunters, and of loggers who were cut to pieces in fights, and for years there has been an apparition wandering the swamp, the Swamp Ape, which is said to be seven feet tall and seven hundred pounds and have the physique of a human, the posture of an ape, and the body odor of a skunk.
MIKE OWEN: What Laroche did was wrong. Those flowers belong to all of us, all 250 million of us -- 250? I think it's up to 270 now -- And belonging to all of us means they belong to none of us. Nobody has a right to take them. Not me, not you, not John Laroche, not...
KAUFMAN: Listen, um, Susan Orlean wrote about a legendary creature called a Swamp Ape. Have you ever heard stories or --
MIKE OWEN: (pissy) Tourist garbage! I don't know why people need to invent silly creatures to make nature fascinating. Isn't nature amazing enough?
KAUFMAN: (shamed) I just asked because she mentioned it.
ORLEAN: That night I called Laroche.
ORLEAN: (into phone) I didn't see anything but bare roots.
(MORE): ORLEAN (cont'd) And I had this thought. Maybe the ghost orchid only blooms in the minds of people who've walked too long in the swamp.
ORLEAN (V.O.): What I didn't say to him is that life seemed to be filled with things that were just like the ghost orchid -- wonderful to imagine and easy to fall in love with but a little fantastic and fleeting and out of reach.
KAUFMAN (V.O.): What I didn't say to him was that life seemed to be filled with things that were just like the ghost orchid -- wonderful to imagine and easy to fall in love with but a little fantastic and fleeting and out of reach.
LAROCHE (PHONE VOICE): (beat,clears throat) Jesus Christ, of course there are ghost orchids out there! I've stolen them!
VALERIE (O.C.): Beautifully written. A really unique piece.
ORLEAN: Thank you.      Thanks very much.
VALERIE: We're big fans.
ORLEAN: Oh, thank you.
VALERIE: And Laroche is such a fun character.
ORLEAN: Yeah, John's a character all right.
VALERIE: It's funny and fresh.     And sad in a way.
ORLEAN: Well, thanks. Thank you.
VALERIE: So we were wondering, what's next?
ORLEAN: Oh, um, Random House wants me to expand it into a book. So I'll be doing that.
VALERIE: And there'll be more of Laroche?
ORLEAN: Yeah.   More John, more orchids.
VALERIE: Y'know, we'd really like to option it.
ORLEAN: (laughing) You want to make this into a movie?
VALERIE: Laroche is such a fun character.   So...
LAROCHE: No shit I'm a fun character. (beat) Who's gonna play me?
ORLEAN: I've got to write it first. Someone's gotta write the screenplay. Most things never get made. It's premature to --
LAROCHE: I think I should play me.
LAROCHE: I've got all the right qualities. While you write, I'll take an acting class.
LAROCHE: I wear this just to screw with 'em.
LAROCHE: Most of them don't even bother calling me John anymore. It's "Crazy White Man" now.
(MORE): LAROCHE (cont'd) "Crazy White Man" is a good title for the movie. Call the book "Crazy White Man." Or, I don't know, "Collector of Hearts" or something. LAROCHE (cont'd) You won't hurt anything. LAROCHE (cont'd) (Yelling into phone) Hello? Hello? Hi? This is John Laroche from the Seminole Nursery. Sem-ih-nole! (to Orlean) How do you say Seminole in Spanish? (into phone) That's right, yes! Yeah, I want to order some more of those pink string beans! Pink string beans! (yelling) Pink String Beans! Pink String Beans! LAROCHE (cont'd) (into phone) I'll call back. (hangs up) Hey, Buster.
BAXLEY: John.
LAROCHE: I was trying to order some pink string beans from Argentina.
BAXLEY: No kidding.
LAROCHE: I figure just because Project Ghost Orchid is dead, we're not closing shop.
BAXLEY: Listen, John --
LAROCHE: We'll get into plant multiplication. Buy little ones, turn 'em into big ones, sell 'em at a profit. Simple plant multiplication for the masses.
BAXLEY: John, we're thinking maybe now's a good time for you to take a few weeks.
LAROCHE: I don't need a vacation, Buster.
BAXLEY: It's a good time.   Things are slow.
LAROCHE: Y'know, the guys on my crew here, all they do is smoke weed all day. I been meaning to talk to you about that. So if it's a question of productivity --
LAROCHE: They're gonna fire me. Goddamn politics. Crazy White Man's bad publicity. (pounds steering wheel) I can't believe I'm dealing with this! (pounds steering wheel) Like I could give a damn. If they fire me, I'll sue. I already did some legal research on this when I was doing the other shit. They can't fire me. And I ain't going to quit.
LAROCHE (PHONE VOICE): (groggy) Yeah?
ORLEAN: John, it's Susan. (waits for response) Orlean. (waits) So, I was just wondering if you might be willing to talk some more.
LAROCHE (PHONE VOICE): What about?
ORLEAN: C'mon, John, I'm trying to put together a book. Don't just abandon me down here.
LAROCHE: I'm no longer interested in orchids. I'm pursuing other avenues. I apologize for any inconvenience this might cause you.
LAROCHE: Thank you for your time.
GUY ON BENCH: We could use the rain, huh? GUY ON BENCH (cont'd) So you from around here?
KAUFMAN: California.
GUY ON BENCH: (excitedly) Yeah? I'm moving to L.A. I just wrote a screenplay. I sent it to a lot of agents. But if they turn me down, I'll go there and market it myself. I used to be in marketing in New York, so I know exactly how to sell this thing. (beat) Where's a nice place to live if you don't have a car?
KAUFMAN: You kind of need a car. I guess West Hollywood would be okay.
GUY ON BENCH: So you recommend West Hollywood then.
KAUFMAN: I'm not recommending it.
GUY ON BENCH: I moved down here for a change, and I wrote the screenplay. Just like that. It's a great idea. GUY ON BENCH (cont'd) It's about a mob guy, but it's not your regular mob story. There's a twist. A cop tells this mob guy's wife that the mob guy's cheating on her. But the truth is, the cop's lying because he wants her for himself. See, they used to go together in high school. (waits for response, then:) You know anything about screenplays?
KAUFMAN: No.     Not really.
GUY ON BENCH: You don't believe in anything? GUY ON BENCH (cont'd) I don't know how you can look out at this beautiful ocean and not believe there's an intelligence that created it.
KAUFMAN: I don't know.
GUY ON BENCH: Well, you can't know until you experience it. That requires accepting Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior. Believe me. Lookit, if I was to show you a bottle of clear liquid and told you it was vodka, how would you know if it really was or if it was water? There's only one way.
KAUFMAN: I'd smell it.
GUY ON BENCH: (annoyed) No. You can't smell vodka.    You'd have to taste it, right?
KAUFMAN: It could be poison.    I don't know you.
GUY ON BENCH: (angry) Look, let's go with the analogy I'm drawing here. It's not poison. Okay? (resuming control)
KAUFMAN: Right.
GUY ON BENCH: That's all I'm saying. (beat) So West Hollywood, huh? I think I'll make it out this year. Because how long can you look at an ocean, y'know?
KAUFMAN (V.O.): I have failed. I have nothing to say.    I am fat. I am not a writer.
DRIVER: Mr. Kaufman, do you mind if I ask what type of work you do for Sony?
KAUFMAN: I'm a writer.
DRIVER: (impressed) A song writer?
KAUFMAN: No, I'm a screenwriter.
DRIVER: Oh, wow! Good for you. You mind if I ask what your movie's about?
KAUFMAN: It's about flowers. KAUFMAN (cont'd) It's about this poacher who steals orchids out of a swamp.
DRIVER: I heard about that!   Drug flowers, right?
KAUFMAN: Yeah.   That's it.
DRIVER: I heard about that! That's great! Action-adventure is my favorite genre.
DONALD: How was Florida, man?
KAUFMAN: (climbing the stairs) Okay.
DONALD: Cool! Hey, my script's going amazing! Right now I'm working out an Image System. Bob calls it an invaluable asset. Because of my multiple personality theme, I've chosen the motif of broken mirrors to show my protagonist's fragmented self. Bob teaches that an Image System greatly increases the complexity of an aesthetic emotion.
KAUFMAN: You sound like you're in a cult.
DONALD: No, it's just good writing technique. (types, then:)
DONALD: You shouldn't have done that. DONALD (cont'd) 'Cause it's extremely helpful. (lies down on floor) Hey, any sign of that Swamp Ape?
KAUFMAN: There is no Swamp Ape. It was invented for people who can't find the actual world fascinating. Y'know?
DONALD: Oh, okay. I didn't know that. Sorry. Hey, I got a song! "Happy Together." I was worried about putting a song in a thriller, but Bob says, Casablanca, the greatest screenplay ever written, did exactly that. Mixed genres.
KAUFMAN: I need to go to bed, Donald.    I haven't slept in a week.
DONALD: Okay.
KAUFMAN (V.O.): ... so we open the swamp... okay, flashback to young Laroche had turtles... Okay, Susan says What Is Passion? And okay we open on a swamp and suddenly a white van comes tearing around...
KAUFMAN: Damn it.
KAUFMAN (V.O.): There are too many ideas and things and people, too many directions to go. I was starting to believe the reason it matters to care passionately about something is that it whittles the world down to a more manageable size.
KAUFMAN: Such sweet, sad insights.   So true.
KAUFMAN: And you're... I like looking at you.
ORLEAN PHOTO: I like looking at you, too.   Charlie.
KAUFMAN: I don't know how to do this. I'm afraid I'll disappoint you. You've written a beautiful book. I can't sleep. I'm losing my hair. I'm fat and repulsive --
ORLEAN PHOTO: Shhh. You're not. Whittle it down, focus on one thing in the story, find the thing you care passionately about and write about that.
KAUFMAN: We see Susan Orlean, delicate, fragile, beautiful, haunted by loneliness, typing at her desk. She looks at the camera and talks to us: "John Laroche is a tall guy, skinny as a stick, pale-eyed, slouch- shouldered..."
DONALD: Morning.
KAUFMAN: Hey, hey.
DONALD: You seem chipper.
KAUFMAN: I'm good.     I have some new ideas.
DONALD: Cool. Me too. I'm putting in a chase sequence now. The killer flees on horseback with the girl. The cop is after them on a motorcycle. It's like a battle between motors and horses.
KAUFMAN: They're all still one person, right?
DONALD: Yeah, hey, that's the big pay-off.
KAUFMAN: (nice) Well, it sounds exciting.
DONALD: Thanks, man. Thanks.
ORLEAN: I suppose what I'd been doing in Florida was trying to understand how people found order and contentment and a sense of purpose in the universe by fixing their sighs on one single desire. Now I was also trying to understand how someone could end such intense desire without a trace.
LAROCHE (PHONE VOICE): (groggy) Yeah what?
ORLEAN: Hello, John, it's Susan.
LAROCHE (PHONE VOICE): Yeah hi.
ORLEAN: So, how's everything going?
LAROCHE (PHONE VOICE): Great! I'm training myself on the internet. It's fascinating. I'm doing pornography. It's amazing how much these suckers will pay for photographs of chicks. And it doesn't matter if they're fat or ugly or what.
ORLEAN: That sounds good.
LAROCHE (PHONE VOICE): It's great is what it is.
ORLEAN: So I've been meeting a lot of orchid people, going to shows, I thought you might want to hear about it.
LAROCHE (PHONE VOICE): Sorry. I am officially no longer interested in orchids or the losers who are still interested in them. The end.
ORLEAN: If you really loved something, wouldn't a little of it always linger?
KAUFMAN (V.O.): Susan Orlean drives. The golden light of the afternoon sun caresses her sweet face. She talks to us. (copying from book) "Florida is a landscape of transition and mutation, a hybrid of ..."
KAUFMAN (V.O.): Susan and her husband eat dinner in silence. A dying relationship. Husband: You want to do something tonight? Susan: I should work. Y'know. I got stuff...
KAUFMAN: I'm so thrilled I get to adapt your book, get to merge my thoughts with yours. I love that. It's intimate, like a marriage.
ORLEAN: Not like a marriage.
KAUFMAN: Maybe what marriage could be.
ORLEAN: Isn't it ironic? You adapting my book? My three years in Florida meditating on my inability to experience passion resulted in my finding it with you.
KAUFMAN: ... and in the final sequence Susan as a young girl swings alone in the backyard. From high in the air she sees her parents in separate rooms staring blankly in opposite directions. This symbolizes the profound scarring their waning passion has had on the girl's psyche, how she became afraid to ever really love something because it would go away. KAUFMAN (cont'd) This is good. I'm finding you.
KAUFMAN: Yallo?
VALERIE (PHONE VOICE): Hi, Charlie. It's Valerie. Just bugging you again. How's everything going?
KAUFMAN: Good.     I think really good now.
VALERIE (PHONE VOICE): Great.    So I spoke to Susan yesterday.
KAUFMAN: (beat) Oh. Uh-huh, uh-huh.
VALERIE (PHONE VOICE): I told her you were making terrific progress and she's really excited to read the script.
KAUFMAN: Oh.   Good.
VALERIE (PHONE VOICE): And she said she'd love to meet you.
KAUFMAN: Um, well, y'know, for me it's distracting to... or confusing to discuss what I'm exploring in the screenplay at this point... before I finish... it. So...
VALERIE (PHONE VOICE): That's fair. I'll let her know.
KAUFMAN: Tell Susan I'd be very happy to meet her at a future date. As she sees fit.
VALERIE (PHONE VOICE): Okay.   Good enough.
KAUFMAN: And tell her how much I love her book. Say I think she's such a great writer. VALERIE (cont'd) Will do.   Just keep us posted, Charlie.
KAUFMAN: Okay.   Nice talking to you.   Okay then.
KAUFMAN: You can sit here and pretend to be a writer, mocking the seriousness of what I do, like some kind of fucking funhouse mirror version of me! But let me tell you, you don't know what writing is!
KAUFMAN (V.O.): She thinks I'm repulsive.
KAUFMAN (V.O.): Movie opens.: Charlie Kaufman, fat, old, bald, paces the room. His voice-over carpets the scene. "I am old. I am fat. I am bald. My toenails have turned strange. I am repulsive. How repulsive? I don't know for I suffer from a condition called Body Dysmorphic Disorder."
JERRY: ... we need to talk about the orchid script. Valerie called yesterday. They're getting antsy.
KAUFMAN: I think I've got it on track now.
JERRY: Good.   She said you sounded weird.
KAUFMAN: No Hollywood bullshit. Just raw truth. Sometimes that takes a while to find.
JERRY: Okay.    What's the time frame here?
KAUFMAN: It's goddamned honest, Jerry.   It's true.
JERRY: Oh, hey, my friend sent me this fucked- up internet thing. It's a girl taking a shit, but a trout comes out. You got e- mail yet? I'll send it to you.
KAUFMAN: This is more honest than anything anyone's ever done before in a movie, I'll tell you that. The only truth we can offer is the truth that's our own experience of the world. "The great poet, in writing himself, writes his time." T.S. Eliot.
JERRY: It sounds good, buddy. But we do need to give Valerie a ballpark --
KAUFMAN: I'm sick of their constant harassment!
ORLEAN (V.O.): On December 21, 1993 John Laroche and three Seminoles illegally removed one hundred and thirty rare plants from the Fakahatchee Strand State Preserve.
MOTES: You've been checking out the displays?
ORLEAN: Yeah.
MOTES: It's the Miami centennial, we're supposed to illustrate something about Florida history.
ORLEAN: Right. Now Laroche is part of Florida history. As a mannequin.
MOTES: It's a world of words to the end of it./In which nothing solid is its solid self. You'll have to forgive me, I'm a reformed poetry professor.
ORLEAN: Who is that?
MOTES: Wallace Stevens.
ORLEAN (V.O.): The greatest poverty is not to live/In a physical world, to feel that one's desire/is too difficult to tell from despair.
KAUFMAN'S VOICE (ON RECORDER): Kaufman sits across from Valerie, a pretty film executive. He eyes her as she picks at her salad. She looks up and he looks down. He sweats. She compliments him on his work. She rubs her nose. He pulls at his nostrils. He tries to sound like he knows what he's talking about. He's full of shit.
LAROCHE (PHONE VOICE): Yeah.
ORLEAN: John, it's Susan.
LAROCHE (PHONE VOICE): I know.
ORLEAN: I went to the Orchid Society Show a couple of days ago.
LAROCHE (PHONE VOICE): I'm not interested.
ORLEAN: There was a display of you stealing the ghost orchids. You're famous.
LAROCHE (PHONE VOICE): I'm not involved in that world now.
ORLEAN: So, look, John, I still haven't seen a ghost. And I was wondering --
LAROCHE (PHONE VOICE): Yeah, yeah. I'll take you in.
ORLEAN: Really?   Thank you so much!   I just...
LAROCHE (PHONE VOICE): Tomorrow. Pick me up at 5:30 am or it'll get too hot. I'll buy all the supplies we'll need.
KAUFMAN (V.O.): Kaufman jerks off to the book jacket photo of Susan Orlean.
KAUFMAN: What?!    What do you want?
DONALD: I finished. My script.    I'm done.
KAUFMAN: Ourobouros.
DONALD: I don't know what that means.
KAUFMAN: The snake is called Ourobouros.
DONALD: I don't think so. But it's cool for my killer to have this modus operandi. Because at the end when he forces the woman, who's really just him, to eat herself, he's also eating himself to death.
KAUFMAN: I'm insane. I'm Ourobouros.
DONALD: I don't know what that is.
KAUFMAN: I've written myself into my screenplay. It's eating itself. I'm eating myself.
DONALD: Oh.   That's kinda weird.
KAUFMAN: It's self-indulgent. It's narcissistic. It's solipsistic. It's pathetic. I'm pathetic. I'm fat and pathetic.
DONALD: I'm sure you had a good reason, Charles. You're an artist.
KAUFMAN: The reason is I'm too timid to speak to the woman who wrote the book. Because I'm pathetic. Because I have no idea how to write. Because I can't make flowers fascinating. Because I suck.
DONALD: Hey, am I in the script, too?
KAUFMAN: I'm going to New York. I'll meet her. That's it. That's what I have to do.
DONALD: Don't get mad at me for saying this, Charles, but Bob's got a seminar in New York this weekend. So if you're stuck --
KAUFMAN (V.O.): Give yourself a reality check. Phoniness is transparent, and it is tiresome. Take pleasure in the beauty and wonders of nature. A flower is God's miracle.
ORLEAN: Where are our supplies?
LAROCHE: Got everything I need right here. LAROCHE (cont'd) Look, don't worry about it. We'll get crap at the Indian trading post on Alligator Alley. Hey, want me to drive?
LAROCHE: I remember one time when I was a kid, fifteen or so, my mother and I came to the Fakahatchee to look for a ghost to photograph. We walked for hours, through the most intense heat I'd ever felt.   We couldn't find one. I wanted to turn back. But my mom said, no.
ORLEAN: He made it sound like a Bible story, the hopeful journey through darkness into light. I never thought many people in the world were like John, but I was realizing more and more that Laroche was an extreme, not an aberration -- most people in some way or another do strive for something exceptional, something to pursue, even at their peril, rather than abide an ordinary life.
LAROCHE: Here we go. Encyclia tempensis.
ORLEAN: Cute.
LAROCHE: Clamshell orchid. You know that.
ORLEAN: Uh-huh.
LAROCHE: See, I found you two already. I'll show you every orchid you want today. I'll find you a fucking ghost if it kills me. (pointing to another orchid) Rigid Epidendrum. That's an ugly-ass orchid. But I'm no snob. I'm interested in all orchids. Not just pretty ones.
LAROCHE: (peppy) They're right nearby.    Just follow me.
KAUFMAN (V.O.): Reads Vanity Fair. Funny detail: New Yorker writer reads Vanity Fair. Use! KAUFMAN (V.O.) (cont'd) Likes tuna, drinks ice tea. Good character details. Good stuff!
ORLEAN: Thanks.   Could I get some lemon please?
KAUFMAN (V.O.): Likes lemon in tea and her voice is not at all what I imagined. Interesting!
ORLEAN: Laroche, can I ask you a personal question?
LAROCHE: We're not lost.
KAUFMAN (V.O.): Eyeing Stuart Weitzman pumps.    Okay.
KAUFMAN (V.O.): I have nothing. I am nothing.     I am fat. I am over. I am lost.
LAROCHE: We're not lost. LAROCHE (cont'd) I'm just turned around a little. LAROCHE (cont'd) A sundial. I'll just set this up, wait a few minutes, and we'll be able to tell which way the sun is moving. We want to be heading southeast. LAROCHE (cont'd) This is no big deal. You should eat something.
ORLEAN: (non-responsive) Not really.
LAROCHE: Well, y'know it's not really about collecting the thing, it's about --
ORLEAN: The sundial isn't working.
LAROCHE: It is so working. LAROCHE (cont'd) The thing about computers. The thing I like is that I'm immersed in it but it's not a living thing that's going to leave or die or something. I prefer having the minimum number of living things to worry about in my life.
ORLEAN: So, John...
LAROCHE: Okay, fuck the sundial. We'll just go straight and eventually we'll get there. LAROCHE (cont'd) What I mean is we'll get somewhere. Out of here. I mean, logically, we have to get out as long as we walk straight.
KAUFMAN: Hello?
JERRY (TELEPHONE VOICE): Hey, it's Jerry. I woke you?
KAUFMAN: No, it's okay.
JERRY (TELEPHONE VOICE): How's it going? Has it been helpful to talk to the writer? What's her name?
KAUFMAN: Yeah.    Susan Orlean.
JERRY (TELEPHONE VOICE): Well, I mean, are you making headway? Valerie's breathing down my neck.
KAUFMAN: You can't rush inspiration.   Y'know?
JERRY (TELEPHONE VOICE): Okay, fine. Um, the other reason I'm calling is to tell you Me, Myself, and I is just amazing.
KAUFMAN: What the hell is Me, Myself, and I?
JERRY (TELEPHONE VOICE): Your brother's script. It's tight, inventive. A smart, edgy thriller. The best spec script I've read this year.
KAUFMAN: Oh.   Good.
JERRY (TELEPHONE VOICE): I'm gonna sell it for a shitload. Two fucking talented guys in one family. Y'know, maybe you could bring Donald on to help you finish the orchid thing.
KAUFMAN: Jerry, don't say that.   I mean --
JERRY (TELEPHONE VOICE): Just a thought, buddy. He's really goddamn amazing at structure.
KAUFMAN: Jerry, I gotta go. I have an appointment. I gotta go.
JERRY (TELEPHONE VOICE): Adios, buddy. Finish! Finish!
KAUFMAN (V.O.): I am fat. I can't write. I am repulsive. I am old. I have accomplished nothing. I am just one more old, fat, bald man on the street.
LAROCHE: I've done this a million times. Whenever everything's killing me, I just say to myself, screw it, and go straight ahead.
REGISTRAR: May I help you?
MCKEE: Years from now you'll be standing around a posh cocktail party congratulating yourself on how you spent an entire weekend locked in a room with an asshole, an opinionated arrogant asshole, for your art.
KAUFMAN (V.O.): I am pathetic. I am a loser.    I am fat.
MCKEE: So... what is the substance of writing? Nothing as trivial as words is at the heart of this great art, my friends.
KAUFMAN (V.O.): I have failed. I am panicked. I am fat. I have sold out. I am worthless. I...
MCKEE: Literary talent is not enough. First, last, and always, the imperative is to tell a story.
MCKEE: Twenty three hundred years ago, Aristotle said, when storytelling goes bad in a society, the result is decadence. (deadpan) Well, just look around you. MCKEE (cont'd) Aristotle also said: A story must have a beginning, a middle, and an end.
KAUFMAN (V.O.): It is my weakness, my ultimate lack of conviction that brings me here with all these desperate idiots lapping up everything this bag of wind spouts. Easy answers. Rules to short-cut yourself to success. And here I am, because my jaunt into the abyss brought me nothing. Well, isn't that the risk one takes for attempting something new. I should leave here right now. I'll start over -- (starts to rise) I need to face this project head on and --
MCKEE: ... and God help you if you use voice- over in your work, my friends.
MCKEE: God fucking help you! It's flaccid, sloppy writing. Any idiot can write voice-over narration to explain the thoughts of a character. You must present the internal conflicts of your character in image, in symbol. Film is a medium of movement and image. MCKEE (cont'd) Okay, one hour for lunch.
MCKEE: You want your writing to be original. You want to have an original voice like Neil Simon or Nora Ephron. Well, let me tell you something, my friends. The key to originality is not eccentricity.
MCKEE: Long speechs are antithetical to the nature of cinema. The Greeks called it stykomythia -- the rapid exchange of ideas. A long speech in a script, say a page long, requires that the camera hold on the actor's face for a minute. Look at the second hand on your watch as it makes one complete rotation around the clock face and you'll get an idea of how intolerable that would be for an audience. The ontology of the screen is that it's always now and it's always action and it's always vivid. Life is rarely vivid. And that's an important point. We are not recreating life on the screen. Writers are not tape recorders. Have you ever eavesdropped on people talking in a coffee shop? Then you know how dull and tedious real conversation is. Real people are not interesting. There's not a person in this world -- and I include myself in this -- who would be interesting enough to take as is and put in a movie as a character.
MCKEE: Someone asked me recently, Bob, do you think Michelle Pfeiffer is pretty. MCKEE (cont'd) (deadpan) Michelle Pfeiffer is proof, my friends, that there's a fucking God. MCKEE (cont'd) Okay. That's it for tonight. Remember, there'll be a Q and A tomorrow morning before class starts.
MCKEE: Anyone else? MCKEE (cont'd) Yes?
KAUFMAN: You talked about Crisis as the ultimate decision a character makes, but what if a writer is attempting to create a story where nothing much happens, where people don't change, they don't have any epiphanies. They struggle and are frustrated and nothing is resolved. More a reflection of the real world --
MCKEE: The real world? The real fucking world? First of all, if you write a screenplay without conflict or crisis, you'll bore your audience to tears. Secondly: Nothing happens in the real world? Are you out of your fucking mind? People are murdered every day! There's genocide and war and corruption! Every fucking day somewhere in the world somebody sacrifices his life to save someone else! Every fucking day someone somewhere makes a conscious decision to destroy someone else! People find love! People lose it, for Christ's sake! A child watches her mother beaten to death on the steps of a church! Someone goes hungry! Somebody else betrays his best friend for a woman! If you can't find that stuff in life, then you, my friend, don't know much about life! And why the fuck are you taking up my precious two hours with your movie? I don't have any use for it! I don't have any bloody use for it!
KAUFMAN: Okay, thanks.
KAUFMAN: Mr. McKee?
MCKEE: Yes?
KAUFMAN: I'm the guy you yelled at this morning.
MCKEE: (trying to recall) I need more.
KAUFMAN: I was the one who thought things didn't happen in life.
MCKEE: Oh, right, okay.    Nice to see you.
KAUFMAN: I need to talk.
MCKEE: I make it a rule not to give private tutorials to my seminar students. It wouldn't be fair to the others.
KAUFMAN: Mr. McKee, please. My even standing here is very scary. I don't meet people well. I'm self-conscious and timid. But what you said this morning shook me to the bone. What you said was bigger than my screenwriting choices. It's about my choices as a human being. Please.
MCKEE: I could use a drink, my friend.
ORLEAN (V.O.): We turned to the right and saw only more cypress and palm and sawgrass ORLEAN (V.O.) (cont'd) So we turned to the left, and there, far down the diagonal of the levee, we could see the gleam of a fender. We followed it like a beacon all the way to the road.
KAUFMAN: ... We followed it like a beacon all the way to the road.
MCKEE: Then what happens?
KAUFMAN: That's the book. I wanted to present it simply, without big character arcs or sensationalizing the story. I wanted to show flowers as God's miracles.   I wanted to show that Orlean never saw the blooming ghost orchid. It's about disappointment.
MCKEE: I see. That's not a movie.     You must go back and put in the drama.
KAUFMAN: (pause) I've got pages of false starts and wrong approaches. I'm way past my deadline. I can't go back.
MCKEE: Ah, the everpresent deadline. Yes, I was doing a Kojak once and... it was hell. MCKEE (cont'd) Tell you a secret. The last act makes the film. You can have an uninvolving, tedious movie, but wow them at the end, and you've got a hit. Find an ending. Use what you've learned this weekend. Give them that and you'll be fine.
KAUFMAN: You promise?
MCKEE: You've taken my course before?
KAUFMAN: My brother did. My twin brother Donald. He's the one who got me to come.
MCKEE: Twin screenwriters. Julius and Philip Epstein,who wrote Casablanca were twins.
KAUFMAN: You mentioned that in class.
MCKEE: The finest screenplay ever written.
KAUFMAN (V.O.): Climax. A revolution in values from positive to negative or negative to positive with or without irony -- a value swing at maximum charge that's absolute and irreversible.
DONALD (PHONE VOICE): Great writers residence.
KAUFMAN: Donald.
DONALD (PHONE VOICE): Hey, how's the trip? Gettin' it on with that lady journalist? You dog you!
KAUFMAN: Yeah. Listen, I'm calling to say congratulations on your script.
DONALD (PHONE VOICE): Isn't that cool? Jerry says he can make me, like, high-sixes against a mill-five.
KAUFMAN: That's great, Donald.
DONALD (PHONE VOICE): I want to thank you for all your help.
KAUFMAN: I wasn't any help.
DONALD (PHONE VOICE): C'mon, you let me stay in your place and your integrity inspired me to even try.
KAUFMAN: Well, look, I've been thinking, maybe you'd be interested in hanging out with me in New York for a few days.
DONALD (PHONE VOICE): Oh my God, yes! I'm flattered!
KAUFMAN: So, like, what would you do?
DONALD: Script kind of makes fun of me, huh?
KAUFMAN: Sorry.   I was trying something.   I --
DONALD: Hey, I don't mind.   It's funny.
KAUFMAN: Okay.    So, what would you do?
DONALD: You and me are so different, Charles. We're different talents.
KAUFMAN: I know. Just for fun. How would the great Donald end this script?
DONALD: (giggling) The great Donald. (serious) Well, I mean... do you need the whole court case?
KAUFMAN: That's true. But --
DONALD: (enjoying this) (thinks)
KAUFMAN: I think it's real.   I haven't actually seen the site.
DONALD: It's sex, man! Incorporate it.
DONALD: Oh, hi, I was doing some research.   I found Laroche's site and... I'm embarrassed.
KAUFMAN: Jesus, Donald.
DONALD: What? She's kinda cute. You don't like her? I dunno, I think she's okay. It's not like I'm marrying her. DONALD (cont'd) Oh, wow.   That's kind of a twist, huh?
KAUFMAN: Jesus.   Jesus!
DONALD: I think this is maybe a good thing for the script. Go ask her about this.
KAUFMAN: I'm not gonna ask her about this.
DONALD: You want me to? I don't mind.
KAUFMAN: No, I don't want you to.
DONALD: I could easily pretend I'm you.
KAUFMAN: No!    No!
ORLEAN: So you'll pick me up?    Yeah, tomorrow. ORLEAN (cont'd) Ten-twenty. TWA. Yes, of course I will.
KAUFMAN: What was she wearing?
DONALD: I don't know. Like a dress maybe.
KAUFMAN: Did she look at me?    At you?
DONALD: Finally! Da-da-da-daaaaah! S. Orlean, TWA flight 651. Arriving Miami 10:20 tomorrow morning.
KAUFMAN: I don't want to do this, Donald.
DONALD: We'll go together.       It'll be good.
KAUFMAN: It's so weird to actually see that van in real life.
DONALD: So you want to build the symbolic charge of the story's imagery from the particular to the universal. Okay?
KAUFMAN: Okay, but when you're creating an image system, how do you know --
DONALD: I'll get a closer look.   You wait here.
KAUFMAN: (momentously) No, I want to go. I should go. I mean, it should be me, right? I mean...
DONALD: Go for it, bro. You the man.
KAUFMAN: Holy...
LAROCHE (O.S.): Darlin', I dunno what's come over you!
ORLEAN: Don't stop, Johnny.
ORLEAN (CONT'D): Johnny! Where are you going?
LAROCHE: Who the hell are you?
KAUFMAN: I just... nobody, I just --
LAROCHE: Who the fuck are you?
KAUFMAN: Um. I'm just. I was at the wrong house. I'm looking for the Johnson family.
LAROCHE: I got your Johnson family right here.
ORLEAN: Honey, come back to bed.
LAROCHE: Who the hell sent you?      Rudy?
KAUFMAN: I'm not -- KAUFMAN (cont'd) I'm the screenwriter.
LAROCHE: What the fuck does that mean?
KAUFMAN: I'm the guy adapting her book.      Her book about you.
LAROCHE: Jesus Fucking Christ. (then, trying to make sense) Why the fuck were you in my backyard?
KAUFMAN: I was, um, trying... I don't know.
ORLEAN: Who's the bloody fat guy?
LAROCHE: This is the fellow adapting your book for the movies, darling'.
ORLEAN: (excited) Really? I wanted to meet -- (realizing) Oh. What does he know?
KAUFMAN: I don't know anything.   I swear.
LAROCHE: He knows about the greenhouse. (to Orlean) We can't have this appear on the silver screen.
KAUFMAN: It won't.    I don't even under --
ORLEAN: Johnny, I'm so tired now.
LAROCHE: He needs to be gotten rid of.
KAUFMAN: What?!
LAROCHE: Small article in newspaper. LAROCHE (cont'd) Screenwriter doing research for movie about notorious orchid poacher was found drowned in the Fakahatchee after accidentally slipping and hitting his head on a rock. End of story. Is that credible from a journalistic standpoint?
ORLEAN: Johnny, come lie on top of me.
LAROCHE: Focus, darling'. Is this credible?
ORLEAN: (concentrates) Um, oh... this screenwriter was killed doing research in Jamaica a few years ago. (to Kaufman) Screenwriter, you have a car?
KAUFMAN: I, um, no, I -- KAUFMAN (cont'd) A rental, a rental.
ORLEAN: We drive his car there, leave it on the side of the swamp. That works.
LAROCHE: Good.   I like that.
ORLEAN: (to Kaufman) Sorry.
KAUFMAN: Please.
KAUFMAN: I thought I had a sense of you from your book. (beat) I had a little crush on you, to tell the truth. You're different than I thought.
ORLEAN: Huh.
KAUFMAN: Look, I don't care what you two are you doing.   Please don't kill me.
ORLEAN: Hey, here's one of my lines. (mockingly reading from screen) "Isn't it ironic? You adapting my book? My three years in Florida meditating on my inability to experience passion resulted in my finding it with you."
KAUFMAN: I was trying to do something.
ORLEAN: Well, it's kind of pathetic, dontcha think?
ORLEAN: Here's me! Here's me again! (mocking) "I wanted to know what it's like to care about something passionately."
KAUFMAN: You can laugh, but I didn't make that line up. That's a quote from your book.
ORLEAN: Yeah, I know, Charlie-boy. Chill. I'm laughing at who I used to be. It's sad.
KAUFMAN: So now you learned about passion. (jealous) From Weirdo Laroche. Bully for you.
ORLEAN: You can't learn about passion. You can be passion. And it wasn't John who made me passion. It was orchids.
KAUFMAN: I thought you didn't even like orchids.
ORLEAN: I lied about what happened at the end of the book. On the way out of the swamp...
LAROCHE: The jewel of the Fakahatchee.
ORLEAN: I still don't get it. I mean, there it is. I can see it's pretty, but --
LAROCHE: You'll get it.
ORLEAN (V.O.): Back in John's basement he explained his real plans for the ghost. He'd discovered a chemical inside with psychoactive properties. His plan had always been to clone the flower and make a fortune marketing this drug. It was Laroche's kind of plan, it wasn't a controlled substance because the government didn't know it existed.
ORLEAN: The first time I tried it, the split second it took effect, I understood orchids. I loved them with a passion I'd never felt for anything. For anyone.
ORLEAN: Isn't it curious? An orchid made me passionate about orchids.
KAUFMAN: You're throwing the truth away for a chemical confusion of your synapses --
ORLEAN: With this powder I am passionate about everything.
(MORE): ORLEAN (cont'd) I'm alive in a profound world now. It sizzles with beauty and horror and sex. Now writing is -- words are -- a way to remove yourself from passion. So I'm done with writing. John and I are making a fortune with this extract. It's big in the Miami club scene. We call it "Passion." (giggles) Isn't that cute? ORLEAN (cont'd) Follow him, please.
LAROCHE: This spot looks good. (thinking aloud) Now how do we do this? Hit him in the head with a rock first? Keeping in mind we can only hit him once and only with as much force as would be created by him slipping and falling onto the rock.
ORLEAN: Holy Jesus. Holy...   Hey, baby, hey...
LAROCHE: Should we drown him, then hit him on the head? Uh-uh. A body bleeds different if the heart's stopped. These new forensic guys are very smart. We really have to know our corpses to stand a chance: rigor mortis, lividity, putrefecation, ocular changes.
KAUFMAN: I don't write this kind of bullshit.
LAROCHE: Don't get all huffy, I was simply -- LAROCHE (cont'd) Fuck!
ORLEAN: (receptively) Yeah, let's, baby.
LAROCHE: Not now. We got to kill that guy. And now I guess that other guy as well.
ORLEAN: (disappointed) Ohhh.
KAUFMAN: For Christ's sake, why didn't you do something while we were in the car?
DONALD: My back had seized.     I couldn't move.
KAUFMAN: Shit!
DONALD: We've gotta ditch this thing.
KAUFMAN: (hysterical) It's a rental! It's a rental!
DONALD: Now!
ORLEAN: That's beautiful! What's that, Johnny? What's that one called? I just so want to fuck that flower, don't you?
LAROCHE: Asclepias lanceolata. Red milkweed. Extremely fuckable. But we don't have time.
LAROCHE: (to Orlean) What's his name?
ORLEAN: Um, y'know... Charlie or something.
LAROCHE: Charlie! Listen, let's talk! This pie is big enough for four people! (to Orlean) Why are there two of him?
ORLEAN: Identical twigs? (laughs crazily) Did I say twigs? I meant twins.
LAROCHE: Cladium jamaicense, guys. Sawgrass. You want to watch out for that. That's some evil shit. Cut you up.
KAUFMAN: Fuck you, Laroche!
LAROCHE: Just tryin' to be helpful. Walk with us and I'll be sure you avoid all the pitfalls. I know these swamps forwards and backwards. There's alligators and poisonous snakes, fellas. Wild hogs.
DONALD: Wait.   Do you hear something?
KAUFMAN: Donald, that sounds bad.
KAUFMAN: Watch out, watch out, watch out!
DONALD: I think we're okay. DONALD (cont'd) Hold on! DONALD (cont'd) Charles?!    Charles?! Where are you?
KAUFMAN: Fuck!   Fuck, Donald, we're dead.
DONALD: We're okay. How's your leg?
KAUFMAN: I don't know. How's your back.
DONALD: It's fine.     My back is fine.
KAUFMAN: Donald!
KAUFMAN: You're gonna be okay.
DONALD: No.  But don't let them get you, too. (weak smile) You got a fucking awesome third act.
KAUFMAN: (crying) Donald, this is an awful, bizarre thing to say and an awful time to say it, but I'm sorry I didn't get to know you better. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry.
DONALD: It's really... You've been really nice.
KAUFMAN: See, it's just I thought I knew you already. I thought you were me. And I hated me.
DONALD: Well, don't do that anymore.      Okay?
KAUFMAN: Okay.
MIKE OWEN: Jesus, that writer guy.
ORLEAN: Water sounds so sparkly. Like lemon plastic jewels plopping onto a silver trampoline! Dontcha think?
LAROCHE: Darlin', please.
ORLEAN: Can we fuck now, baby?    Fuck like lemons?
KAUFMAN: You gotta help me.    You gotta help me.
MIKE OWEN: What the hell is going on here?
KAUFMAN: They're after me. They've got guns. They killed my brother.
MIKE OWEN: Who's got guns? What are you -- MIKE OWEN (cont'd) Holy shit.
ORLEAN: Hey, it's the screenwriter!
KAUFMAN: There's a thing back there!    You don't want to be here.
LAROCHE: You're right, I don't want to be here. I'm tired, let's get this over with.
ORLEAN: I love your gun, baby.    Can we trade?
LAROCHE: Stand back, sweetness. LAROCHE (cont'd) Susie!   Susie!
ORLEAN: Where'd Johnny go?
LAROCHE (O.S.): Susie!
ORLEAN: (crying softly) Oh, Johnny.
KAUFMAN: I'd just stare at your picture, and you looked so sweet. I read your words and I thought you were smart and maybe lost and lonely like me. And the way you wrote about Laroche. You said he was handsome even though he had no front teeth --
ORLEAN: Oh, Johnny. Johnny's teeth.     Oh...
KAUFMAN: I figured you could look at me and see something, even with all my flaws you could look at me and find something, you could maybe someday write a description of me that would be nicer than the one I write day in and day out in my head. (hopefully) Would it be?
ORLEAN: You're really so wonderful.
KAUFMAN: Really?
ORLEAN: So wonderful. I can see inside your soul. It glows with orange sadness. It's raining inside you. I want to run through your dripply dripples. It's so beautiful. I love you. I do.
KAUFMAN: It's the drugs.
ORLEAN: No, it's me. It's the real me. Look at you. I just want to hold you and -- Oh, crap, it's wearing off. Crap! ORLEAN (cont'd) I'm out.     I'm fucking cleaned out.
KAUFMAN: Okay, bye.
ORLEAN: I can't let you go, fatty.    I can't let you make this public. ORLEAN (cont'd) You hear me? You pathetic, fat, bald... You don't even know how to write! You're not even... You're not leaving here! (screaming, crying) I need a fix! Everything's so ugly!
KAUFMAN: Donald!
DONALD: My brother is not fat. He's not bald. My brother is a great writer! He was trying to do something important!
KAUFMAN: That's Mike Owen. John Laroche. Susan Orlean. I don't know what that is. I think it might be a Swamp Ape. And that's Donald, my twin brother. He saved my life.
POLICE OFFICER: You two really look alike.
KAUFMAN: (proudly) Yeah. Yes, we do.
ALICE: Oh, I love McKee! (recognizes Kaufman, gets reserved) Oh, hi. Haven't seen you in a while.
KAUFMAN: Hi.    Yeah, I've been away.
ALICE: So you studying screenwriting?
KAUFMAN: I'm actually finishing one up.
ALICE: Good for you! Me too. God, it's so hard to get in, huh? Everyone and their brother is writing a screenplay.
KAUFMAN: Yeah. Actually I'm writing this one for Sony Pictures.
ALICE: Really? Wow. Really?   That's so cool. (beat)
KAUFMAN: That's tough. Let's see... about being yourself, maybe. It's about learning that if you can't love yourself, you can't really love anyone.
ALICE: That's true. God, that's so true.     It's such an important message, y'know?
KAUFMAN: See, my twin brother was murdered recently --
ALICE: Oh God!    I'm sorry.   That's so horrible.
KAUFMAN: Thanks. Like part of me ripped away. Forever. It was a wake up call.
ALICE: I'm so sorry. You poor man.
KAUFMAN: Anyway, it helped put things in perspective. Life is a miracle. All life, from the flower to the human being. You. Me. And I want to show people that. For my brother. For everyone.
ALICE: Listen, do you mind if I sit for a sec?
KAUFMAN: But you're working.
ALICE: (shrugs) It's a stupid job, y'know.    I'm Alice.
KAUFMAN: Charlie.
ALICE: I like that name. Charlie. I've always really liked that name. Charlie.
