ANNE: Solomon, turning back to his wife with a broad smile waving her forward:
SOLOMON: Come, Anne. Jump. The children, now smiling as well, egg their mother on.
ALONZO MARGARET: Jump. You can make it. I've done it. You can make I will not ruin my dress. Catch Solomon moves close, holds out his arms. Yet, there's still just a bit of mischievousness in his eyes. Anne gives her husband a lightly stern look to which Solomon I will catch you, Anne.
ANNE: I will not ruin my dress. Catch Solomon moves close, holds out his arms. Yet, there's still just a bit of mischievousness in his eyes. Anne gives her husband a lightly stern look to which Solomon I will catch you, Anne.
SOLOMON: I will catch you, Anne.
ANNE: You will. And with that Anne takes the leap. Solomon catches her, swings her around grandly and sets her down lightly to the delighted applause of the children. That done, Solomon takes Anne's hand and leads her on. As Solomon and his family make their way, among the slaves on the street, we see one in particular; JASPER. As he trails his MASTER he can't help but note Solomon and his family as they enter A STORE. His intrigue of this most handsome and harmonious group should be With his Master occupied, Jasper moves slyly toward the STORE. Frozen on the spot, Jasper looks on admiringly. Suddenly a voice barks out-
SOLOMON: Mr. Parker.
PARKER: Mr. Northup. Mrs. Northup. With money in hand the Northup children move quickly about the store looking for items to purchase.
SOLOMON: We are in need of a fresh carry all for the Mrs's travels.
PARKER: A year's passed? Off to Sandy I am. Using a long pole, Mr. Parker fetches down a CARRY ALL from an upper shelf.
ANNE: I am. Using a long pole, Mr. Parker fetches down a CARRY ALL from an upper shelf.
PARKER: Something to suit your style, but sturdy enough for the forty miles round trip. Handing the Bag to Anne, she is immediately taken by it.
ANNE: It's beautiful.
SOLOMON: ( CAUTIOUSLY )
ANNE: We will take it. Children, come see what your father has just purchased for me. As the children run over - chattering excitedly about the new gift - they RUN PAST JASPER who has quietly entered the store. At the checkout counter sits a portrait of WILLIAM HENRY HARRISON, the edges draped in black crepe. Before the book sits a LEDGER. Mr. Parker asks of Solomon:
PARKER: If you would sign our condolence book. My hope is to find a way to forward it to the Widow Harrison. Sad days for the nation.
SOLOMON: Yes, certainly. Poor Mrs. Harris and her children. I hope brighter times ahead.
PARKER: A moment, sir, and you will be If we could discuss the price.
SOLOMON: If we could discuss the price.
PARKER: Forgive me, Mrs. Northup. A customer waits. Welcome, sir. To Jasper, with good nature:
SOLOMON: Shop well, but mind your wallet.
PARKER: Ignore the gentleman's nonsense. Now, may I interest you in a new cravat? Pure silk by way of the Before Parker can finish, the door opens. It's Jasper's Master, FITZGERALD. He's stern, clearly displeased.
FITZGERALD: ( TO PARKER )
SOLOMON: No intrusion. Fitzgerald looks to Solomon. It is a cold glare as though he wasn't speaking to, and has no interest in a response from a black man. Looking back to Parker:
FITZGERALD: Good day, sir.
SOLOMON: "Thus has passed away from earth our late President." Solomon starts from the top of the article.
MARGARET: Will you read it again?
ANNE: Not just now, darling. Anne enters the dining room and places a large chicken at the center of the table. As she takes a seat, all heads are bowed.
MARGARET: For food that stays our hunger, For rest that brings us ease, For homes where memories linger, We give our thanks for these.
ALL: Margaret, that was wonderful.
SOLOMON: Margaret, that was wonderful.
MARGARET: Thank you, Papa.
SOLOMON: Alonzo, do you have something to Yes, I helped Momma make this.
ALONZO: Yes, I helped Momma make this.
ANNE: Yes, and you were such a good help. Especially making the gravy.
MARGARET: Papa, I would very much like to learn how to play the violin. Could you teach me?
ALONZO: Me too!
MARGARET: Yes, but I asked Papa first.
SOLOMON: Both of you, calm down. We will have our first lesson after this wonderful dinner. And on that note, let's start eating.
7A 7A: INT. NORTHUP HOUSE - NIGHT Now alone together, we see Anne and Solomon wrapped in each other's arms. Beyond being physically close, emotionally close, they are just so very comfortable with one another. They are the very representation of a couple who are made for each other. They look at each other for a prolonged time.
SOLOMON: ( COMICALLY FORLORN )
ANNE: It is the custom. I wonder what you'll do without me?
SOLOMON: I won't stay idle. SOLOMON's eyes lower.
ANNE: Darling, it's good money.
SOLOMON: If only I didn't have to share your cooking with other people. ANNE holds his gaze.
ANNE: You don't. They kiss.
SOLOMON: Travel safely.
ANNE: Stay safely. Anne and the children loaded up, the Driver chides the horse and the carriage heads off. Solomon waves a hearty good bye to his wife and children.
MR. MOON: Call the Devil's name. There he is now. Mr. Northup.! I have two gentlemen who should make your acquaintance. Messrs. Brown and MR. MOON Mr. Northup, these two gentlemen were inquiring about distinguished individuals, and I was just this very moment telling them that Solomon Northup is an expert player on the violin.
BROWN: MR. MOON Mr. Northup, these two gentlemen were inquiring about distinguished individuals, and I was just this very moment telling them that Solomon Northup is an expert player on the violin.
MR. MOON: Mr. Northup, these two gentlemen were inquiring about distinguished individuals, and I was just this very moment telling them that Solomon Northup is an expert player on the violin.
HAMILTON: He was indeed.
SOLOMON: Mr. Moon is being overly gracious.
BROWN: Taking into consideration his graciousness and your modesty, may we trouble you for a moment of your time to converse, sir?
SOLOMON: A circus?
HAMILTON: That is our usual employee. The company currently in the city of Circus too constricting a word to describe the talented and merry band with which we travel. It is a spectacle unlike most have ever witnessed. Creatures from the darkest Africa as yet unseen by civilized man. Acrobats from the Orient able to contort themselves in the most confounding manners.
BROWN: Circus too constricting a word to describe the talented and merry band with which we travel. It is a spectacle unlike most have ever witnessed. Creatures from the darkest Africa as yet unseen by civilized man. Acrobats from the Orient able to contort themselves in the most confounding manners.
HAMILTON: And I myself in aide of Mr. Brown; an internationally renowned practitioner in the art of We are on our way thither to rejoin the company having left for a short time to make a small profit from our own exhibitions.
BROWN: We are on our way thither to rejoin the company having left for a short time to make a small profit from our own exhibitions.
HAMILTON: The reason for our inquiry with Mr. Moon.
BROWN: Yes. We had just a devil of a time in procuring music for our
SOLOMON: Thank you sir.
BROWN: If we could persuade you to accompany us as far as New York. We would give you one dollar for each day's service and three dollars for every night played at our performances. In addition we would provide sufficient pay for the expenses of your return from New York here to Saratoga.
SOLOMON: You understand this is all very Consider it an opportunity to see
HAMILTON: Consider it an opportunity to see
THE COUNTRY: It's intriguing.
SOLOMON: It's intriguing.
HAMILTON: If there is any way in which you would give consideration to the Solomon gives the whole deal one last consideration.
SOLOMON: The payment offered is enticement enough, as is my desire to visit the metropolis.
HAMILTON: We are delighted, sir. So delighted. Though we would add that our travel plans
BROWN: We would like to depart with As luck would have it, my wife and children are traveling. I will write her of our plans.
SOLOMON: As luck would have it, my wife and children are traveling. I will write her of our plans.
BROWN: Excellent! I would beg you collect yourself, then we may INT. NORTHUP HOUSE/BEDROOM - LATER Back in his house, we see Solomon packing: putting some clothes in a travel case, and collecting his violin as 13 INT. NORTHUP HOUSE/STUDY - LATER 13 Solomon sits down to write a letter; pen poised over paper with already a few lines written. But Solomon thinks better of it. WITH LITTLE THOUGHT HE TEARS THE
HAMILTON: No letter to post?
SOLOMON: No need. My return will coincide with my family's.
BROWN: We're off then.
HAMILTON: Not an additional tip from a one of them. They expect to be entertained for nothing.
BROWN: And not satisfied a bit despite giving them more than what they paid for.
SOLOMON: It's the national mood. There's too much grief to make room for My sincerest apologies, Solomon. You were promised opportunity, and you were given none.
HAMILTON: My sincerest apologies, Solomon. You were promised opportunity, and you were given none.
BROWN: The opportunity is with the circus. A two man show poorly promoted, what were we to expect? But the circus bills itself.
HAMILTON: I have told you of the circus with which we are connected. Creatures from the darkest of Africa. Acrobats from the Orient who
BROWN: I have told you of the circus with which we are connected. Creatures from the darkest of Africa. Acrobats from the Orient who
SOLOMON: You have described it, yes.
BROWN: Yes. We need to return immediately to Washington. Solomon.I believe us familiar enough now, but forgive me if I am bold.would you consider making the trip with us? Solomon gives a bit of a laugh at the idea.
HAMILTON: Entertaining at pubs and inns has it's place, but a man of your skills deserves better.
BROWN: Hear, hear.
HAMILTON: And more importantly you would build your own name and following. The circus tends to attract those with the highest of reputations. An introduction here and there could amount to a lifetime of reward. Now would be the time. With your family away, an opportunity presents itself.
BROWN: Said as fellow artists as well as businessmen. Well worth the effort at least.
SOLOMON: You present a flattering representation. As my family will be traveling back shortly, perhaps I might commit only to one trial Oh, very good, sir. Very good. I cannot recall being so excited.
HAMILTON: Oh, very good, sir. Very good. I cannot recall being so excited.
BROWN: There is a practical concern. If you are to continue on with us you should obtain your free papers.
SOLOMON: Not necessary.
BROWN: Here in New York, no. But we will be entering slave states and as a matter of precaution. It's to all our benefit we should not have to come to account for your well Six shillings worth of effort could well save much trouble We'll go to the Customs House in the morning, then travel on. Good business all around.
HAMILTON: Six shillings worth of effort could well save much trouble We'll go to the Customs House in the morning, then travel on. Good business all around.
BROWN: We'll go to the Customs House in the morning, then travel on. Good business all around.
BROWN: Forty-three dollars. All to you.
SOLOMON: That.it's far more than my wages amount to.
BROWN: Consider the remainder an advance from the circus. I cannot tell you.I honestly wish you had seen the expression of our director when I described your abilities. He was fairly overcome with You should have invited him to sup with us.
HAMILTON: You should have invited him to sup with us.
BROWN: I did. I did, but so many preparations before the company is to depart.
SOLOMON: Tomorrow we shall prepare for our Washington debut. But tonight, our thoughts are with the great man
GENTLEMEN: Tomorrow we shall prepare for our Washington debut. But tonight, our thoughts are with the great man
BROWN: Tomorrow we shall prepare for our Washington debut. But tonight, our thoughts are with the great man
HAMILTON: Another. Our departed President deserves all the salutation we can Hamilton and Brown drink again, and Solomon does as well.
BROWN: Another. Our departed President deserves all the salutation we can Hamilton and Brown drink again, and Solomon does as well.
OMIT: 21 OMIT 21
HAMILTON: That's all right Solomon. No shame in it. No shame at all.
HAMILTON: I'm afraid that Brown and I haven't brought you much luck. But rough waters bring smooth sailing. Eventually they do.
SOLOMON: ..So.so sorry.
HAMILTON: Shhh. We won't hear it. We Let him sleep.
BROWN: Let him sleep.
HAMILTON: Hmm. A good night's sleep. And tomorrow.tomorrow you will feel as well and refreshed as though the earth were new again. Hamilton lingers a bit too long and a bit too close to Solomon for Brown's taste. With more than a bit of
BROWN: Hamilton! Nothing more we can do for him.
HAMILTON: Such is the pity. Displaying an odd sort of disappointment, Hamilton slinks away from the bed. He crosses to, and BLOWS OUT A CANDLE. The room goes dark with a blackness more than night. Brown and Hamilton exit. Solomon lays in the dark and moans. His sounds becoming MORE AND MORE
BURCH: Well, my boy, how yah feel now? Solomon rises up as best he can. With all the resolve he can put together he states what he considers to be fact:
SOLOMON: I am Solomon Northup. I am a free man; a resident of Saratoga, New York. The residence also of my wife and children who are equally free. I have papers. You have no right whatsoever to detain me
BURCH: Yah not any
SOLOMON: And I promise you - I promise - upon my liberation I will have satisfaction for this wrong.
BURCH: Resolve this. Produce your With confidence Solomon goes to the pocket of his trousers. He searches one, then the other, but they are empty. He feels quickly about himself, but clearly his papers have been lifted. Solomon's confidence shifts, but to resolve rather than fear. Papers or none, he will not be easily cowed. Still, Burch asserts:
SOLOMON: .I.I insist. Burch regrets hearing this. Not from sympathy, but rather because he's nearly too tired to go back to beating Solomon. Yet, as if returning to work, Burch returns to pummeling Solomon. Burch punctuates the blows
BURCH: Yah a slave. Yah a Georgia slave! Burch continues to strike, and strike. This time until the paddle SNAPS IN HALF. Burch then GRABS THE WHIP. Hardly missing a stroke, he whips Solomon relentlessly, the flails cutting into Solomon's back. Again, Burch's arm tires before Solomon "breaks."
SOLOMON: Burch goes back to whipping and whipping, and whipping.
RADBURN: I seen a good many of the black kind just where yah're. Sick. Make me sick. Often times the situation was resolved, and I think; what was all the beatin' and abuse for? Things end as they should, and the violence was for naught. So why cause trouble when they ain't no cause for it? Be of a cooperative nature, and things don't need be particularly Or, yah can carry on like yah been, and I fear yah won't live to see Sunday next. With that thought, Radburn exits. Solomon rests. But to rest seems like giving in to defeat. He begins pulling
SOLOMON: Help me! Someone help me! If anyone at all hears him, they do not respond. Solomon continues his plaintive cry for assistance.
RADBURN: Go on. Warsh up. The men, soaking in humility as well as water, begin to scrub with A SINGLE BAR OF HARSH SOAP passed among them.
RANDALL: Do you know when my Mama will Hush him up! Seeing Solomon has no answer for him, Randall begins to Mama ..! Mama! Is she going to Doing all he can to spare the child from a certain
RADBURN: Hush him up! Seeing Solomon has no answer for him, Randall begins to Mama ..! Mama! Is she going to Doing all he can to spare the child from a certain
RANDALL: Mama ..! Mama! Is she going to Doing all he can to spare the child from a certain
SOLOMON: Quiet, please. Randall is becoming nearly inconsolable.
RANDALL: ( CONTINUED ) 30 CONTINUED: 30
SOLOMON: Your mother will come, I swear she will, but you must be silent. Please. Be silent! On the seeming strength of Solomon's promise, Randall goes silent. Solomon looks to Radburn, who just throws water on the soapy men.
RADBURN: That old thing of yours is just rags and tatters. Need something proper to wear. Solomon doesn't move for the clothing.
SOLOMON: .Thank you.
RADBURN: Yah keep bein' proper, yah'll see how things work out. Radburn starts to take the old shirt.
SOLOMON: No! It was from my wife.
RADBURN: Rags and tatters. Rags and Taking the shirt, the "rags and tatters" as he calls them, Radburn exits, locking the door behind him. Solomon sits with the plate of food before him. He pushes the plate away rather than eat.
SOLOMON: This can't stand. It is a crime. I believe now someone lay in wait for me. My drink was altered. We are free men. They have.they have no right to hold us. Solomon waits for a response from the others. They give We need a sympathetic ear. If we have an opportunity to explain our
SITUATION: Who in your estimation is that sympathetic ear?
CLEMENS: Who in your estimation is that sympathetic ear?
SOLOMON: The two men I journeyed with. I'm certain they're making inquires at this very moment.
CLEMENS: I would be just as certain they are counting the money paid for delivering you to this place.
SOLOMON: They were not kidnappers. They were artists. Fellow performers.
CLEMENS: You know that? You know for certain who they were?
JOHN: I don't say that to give you empty agitation, John.
CLEMENS: I don't say that to give you empty agitation, John.
JOHN: For y'all. For y'all they ain't nothin' but that! But John was'n kidnapped. John bein' hold as debt, tha's all. Massa pay his debt, and John be redeemed
CLEMENS: Boy, our masters will not come for John is nearly beside himself with panic.
JOHN: Now John's.John's sorry for y'all, but tha's how it be. Where y'all goin', yah goin' witout John. Massa take care of me. Massa take care.
RANDALL: All three men turn and look. At the moment Randall doesn't call out emptily. At the door to the yard is Burch along with two women. One in her late twenties; ELIZA. She is "arrayed in silk, with rings upon her fingers, and golden ornaments suspended from her ears." Though a slave, Eliza was a mistress and has - to this point - lived well. This is reflected in her airs and her speech. The other is a little girl, light in skin color, of about seven or eight. This is EMILY, Randall's half sister. As she enters the yard Eliza squeals with high delight, then breaks into tears of both sorrow and joy. Clearly this is mother and child being reunited.
ELIZA: My darling. My sweet, sweet baby.
ELIZA: When I say I had my master's favor, you understand. Above even his own wife, I had it. Do you know that he built a house for me? Built it on the sole condition that I reside there with him. The added promise in time I would be emancipated. And for nine years he blessed me with every comfort and luxury in life. Displaying the finery she still wears:
BURCH: Come on. Get yer blankets. Get Sensing that things will not end well:
ELIZA: No, please don't.
BURCH: I don't want to hear yer talk. Get in the yard.
ELIZA: Ain't no need for all that. Putting hand to Randall's head.
RADBURN: Ain't no need for all that. Putting hand to Randall's head.
JOHN: John's massa gunna pay his debt. John's massa gunna come for him.
BURCH: Not a word out of none a yah. Not a word. Burch and Radburn begin driving the shackled slaves from the yard.
A36 A36: EXT. BURCH'S DUNGEON/INT. WAGON/FLAT BED - LATER The slaves are lead to a flat bed of the horse and carriage. They are made to lay down side-by-side. We stay with them as some sort of cloth is flung over them, obscuring and blacking out their view. At that moment, the screen is BLACKENED and we hear the sound of the cart moving in haste.
OMIT: 38A INT. STEAMBOAT - NIGHT 38A
MULATTO WOMAN: Cheer up and don't be so cast Clemens Ray and Solomon watch as the Mulatto Woman returns to top deck, the trapdoor locked firmly behind her. Clemens Ray turns to Solomon with a deadpan stern If you want to survive, do and say as little as possible. Tell no one who you really are and tell no one that you can read and write.
CLEMENS RAY: If you want to survive, do and say as little as possible. Tell no one who you really are and tell no one that you can read and write.
ROBERT: I say we fight. Robert delivers this in a hushed voice.
SOLOMON: The crew is fairly small. If it were well planned, I believe they could be strong armed.
CLEMENS RAY: Three can't stand against a whole crew. The rest here are niggers, born and bred slaves. Niggers ain't got the stomach for a fight, not a damn one.
ROBERT: All I know, we get where we travelling we'll wish we'd died Survival is not about certain death, it is about keeping your head down. Solomon looks at Clemens Ray, agitated his voice now raised above the previous whispers. Grits his teeth.
CLEMENS RAY: Survival is not about certain death, it is about keeping your head down. Solomon looks at Clemens Ray, agitated his voice now raised above the previous whispers. Grits his teeth.
SOLOMON: Days ago I was with my family, in my home. Now you tell me all is lost. "Tell no one who I really am" if I want to survive. I don't want to survive, I want to live.
CLEMENS RAY: Better off. Better than us.
RAY: Clemens.! Clemens Ray! We are in the port of New Orleans, one of the busiest in the young nation. On the dock itself there is a bustle of activity as goods are loaded and unloaded from a various ships. It's a bit of controlled chaos as a VARIETY OF LANGUAGES are spoken and shouted while slaves are shuttled from the Orleans to a holding pen. Solomon, and all the slaves are overwhelmed by all that is happening around them. Two men - among many - are awaiting the arrival of the Orleans. They are JONUS RAY - Clemens Ray's master - and DAVIS who is the solicitor of Mr. Ray. They both look like they mean business. The moment the gangplank is laid, Ray yells for Clemens. Clemens, seeing his master, is nearly crazy with delight. He is, uncharacteristically beside himself. Ironically, his master now represents "freedom."
CLEMENS: .My master. Master Ray, sir! Master Ray! Clemens pulls on his chain. As he does so, Several other slaves collapse in his effort to reach his master, like Who is in charge of this vessel?
RAY: Who is in charge of this vessel?
CAPTAIN: I am the Captain.
RAY: I am Mr. Jonus Ray. My solicitor has documentation verifying that the Negro named Clemens Ray is my As he reads PAPERS handed to him by Davis:
CAPTAIN: I know nothing of
RAY: You are ordered by court to return that property immediately, or face charges of thievery.
CAPTAIN: My duty is to transport goods. I am not responsible for their Remove these contraptions! To his mate:
RAY: Remove these contraptions! To his mate:
CAPTAIN: Free him! Biddee does as ordered. Once free, Clemens hugs and sobs over his master as would a lost and then found child.
RAY: It's all well, now, Clemens. You will return home with me. ( to the Captain ) Consider this notice and warning.
FREEMAN: Oren. John. Lethe. Eliza. Randall. Emily. Platt. Platt! Solomon does not respond. Freeman looks around. He spots Solomon.
CAPTAIN: Freeman steps to Solomon. He gives him a looking over.
FREEMAN: Stand up. Solomon does as told.
SOLOMON: My name is not Platt. My name is Freeman strikes Solomon hard across the face.
FREEMAN: Your name is Platt, and I will teach you your name so that you don't forget. ( to the Captain ) Shackle my niggers. Get them to my cart.
FREEMAN: Tallest to smallest, understand? Are you taller than her? Then you'd go before her. Do it. ( to the group ) Keep your heads up. A sense of direction; that's how you look smart. None of those saucer eyes. Rid yourself of that smile. Look like a goddamn grinnin' monkey. Put the least thought in your head. C'mon, now. Think of Weary of Cape's playing, Solomon moves to Cape. He asks:
SOLOMON: Can you play a reel?
CAPE: ( DISMISSIVE )
SOLOMON: If I may.? Cape looks to Freeman:
FREEMAN: He sick of your caterwaulin'. Let him play, boy. Let's see what he can do. Cape reluctantly hands the fiddle over to Solomon. Solomon tunes it a bit, then begins to play. His fingers stiff at first, he takes a moment to warm up. But as he warms up he is, despite the circumstances, masterful.
FORD: What is the price for the ones Platt and Eliza?
FREEMAN: A thousand for Platt; he is a nigger of talent. Seven hundred for Eliza. My fairest price.
FORD: You will accept a note?
FREEMAN: As always, from you, Mr. Ford. Eliza is beside herself as it seems she is about to be separated from her family. She begs of Ford:
ELIZA: Please, sir. Please don't divide my family. Don't take me unless you take my children as Eliza, quiet!
FREEMAN: Eliza, quiet!
ELIZA: You will have the most faithful slave in me, sir. The most faithful slave that has ever lived, but I beg that you do not separate us. A BUYER interrupts the skirmish and approaches Freeman and delivers coolly, eyeing Randall-
BUYER: Your price for the child?
FREEMAN: You see how fit the boy is. Like ripe fruit. He will grow into a fine beast. Randall is made to run, and jump by FREEMAN - exhibiting his activity and his condition.
BUYER: He reaches into his waistcoat and retrieves his wallet, counting out six hundred dollars, placing them into the already extended hand of Freeman. Ford sees the distress and panic in Eliza; it visibly touches him. He now tries to buy EMILY to console her.
FORD: How much for the little girl? You have no need for her. One so young will bring you no profit.
FREEMAN: I will not sell the girl. There's heaps 'n piles of money to be made off her. She is a beauty. One of the regular bloods. None of your thick-lipped, bullet headed, cotton picking niggers.
FORD: Her child, man. For God's sake, are you not sentimental in the My sentimentality stretches the length of a coin. Do you want the lot, Mr. Ford, or do you pass on them all?
FREEMAN: My sentimentality stretches the length of a coin. Do you want the lot, Mr. Ford, or do you pass on them all?
FORD: I will take the ones Platt and Eliza grips her children tight.
ELIZA: I will not go without my children. You will not take them from me.
FREEMAN: Take her out of here. Cape DROPS HIS FIDDLE, begins to pull Eliza away toward the door of the room, but her screaming and pleading do not abate. IT IS CLEARLY UNSETTLING TO THE OTHER BUYERS.
EMILY: Mama. Mama!
FREEMAN: ( TO SOLOMON )
EMILY: Don't cry, Mama. I will be a good girl. Don't cry. I will keep my head up and I will look smart. I will always look smart.
FREEMAN: Make merry, all of you! Goddamn it, Cape! Keep her quiet or it's your damned hide I will take it out of! Cape pulls a rag, stuffs it in Eliza's mouth. Clamping both hands over her mouth, he hauls Eliza from the room by the head. IT IS AN UGLY, UGLY SCENE.
CHAPIN: Sam, call to the Mistress.
SAM: Mistress! Mistress, they arrivn'. MISTRESS FORD EXITS the house - along with her attending slave, RACHEL, who is a cook AS WELL AS SAM'S WIFE - and travels to her husband, kisses him, then laughingly
MRS. FORD: Did you bring all those niggers? Two of them? You got two?
FORD: Make me something to eat, dear. The day has taken it from me.
MRS. FORD: Let me get a look at them.
FORD: Mr. Chapin
MRS. FORD: ( RE: ELIZA )
FORD: Separated from her children.
MRS. FORD: Oh, dear.
FORD: It couldn't be helped.
MRS. FORD: Poor, poor woman.
FORD: Mr. Chapin, tomorrow you will take these two up to the mill and start them workin'. For now make them
CHAPIN: Yes, sir. ( to the slaves: ) C'mon, now. C'mon. Don't dawdle.
MRS. FORD: ( TO ELIZA: )
A61A A61A: EXT. FORD'S WORK AREA - DAY John Tibeats, stands before the slaves. Chapin hovers to one side.
TIBEATS: My name is John Tibeats, William Ford's chief carpenter. You will refer to me as Master. Tibeats nods in Chapin's direction:
FORD: "But as touching the resurrection of the dead, have ye not read that which was spoken unto you by God, saying, I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. God is not the God of the dead, but of the living. And when the multitude heard this, they were astonished at his doctrine. Then one of them, which was a lawyer, asked him a question, tempting him, and saying, Master, which is the great commandment in the law? Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets." Despite the lightness with which Ford speaks and the hope in his words, ELIZA SITS OFF TO THE SIDE - SELF-SECLUDED
OMITTED: 67 OMIT 67 68 OMITTED 68 69 OMIT 69
SOLOMON: But he that is greatest among you, let him be as the younger; and he that is chief, as he that doth serve. For whether is greater, he that sitteth at meat, or he that serveth? Is not he that sitteth at meat? But I am among you as he that serveth. A white customer - WINSLOW - irate at the sight and sound of slaves reading Scripture, crosses over. He grabs the From where did you thieve this?
WINSLOW: From where did you thieve this?
SAM: Suh, the book is my property. The White Customer has no interest in Sam's answer. With flailing hands he STARTS BEATING ON SAM. Solomon tries to stop him. That only makes the situation worse, Solomon now the target of the man's ire.
WINSLOW: Take your hands from me! Ford comes running over.
FORD: What is the commotion?
WINSLOW: Your niggers are either brazen or rebellious. This one was readin' Scripture, and this one claims it to be his.
FORD: It is. A gift from his Mistress.
WINSLOW: You condone this?
FORD: I encourage it. As a Christian I can do no less.
WINSLOW: You can do no worse, Ford. A slave that reads is dangerous. Winslow moves off. He yells back at Ford:
FORD: Pay him no mind. The word of God applies to all. In that you may take comfort.
OMITTED: 72 EXT. ROAD - DAY 72
SOLOMON: The creek is plenty deep enough to sail, even with a boat full of load. The distance from the WORK AREA to the point on the latter bayou is several miles by water fewer than land. It occurs to me that the expense of the transportation would be materially
DIMINISHED: "Materially diminished?"
TIBEATS: "Materially diminished?"
SOLOMON: If we use the waterway.
TIBEATS: It's a scheme. Plenty of engineers have schemed similarly. The passes are too tight.
SOLOMON: I reckon them at more than twelve feet at their most narrow. Wide enough for a tub to traverse. A team of niggers can clear it out.
TIBEATS: And you know what of transport and terra formin'?
SOLOMON: I labored repairing the Champlain canal, on the section over which William Van Nortwick was superintendent. With my earnings I hired several efficient hands to assist me, and I entered into contracts for the transportation of large rafts of timber from Lake Champlain to Troy.
FORD: ( TO TIBEATS )
SOLOMON: My great thanks, Master Ford.
FORD: My thanks to you, and it is the least of it. My hope is that it brings us both much joy over the Following the statement, Solomon's not sure how to react. He remains grateful, but the thought of "over the years" is just a reminder of the altered state in which he now finds himself.
SOLOMON: Eliza. Eliza, stop! Solomon goes to her, grabs Eliza. She does not stop. As if to force the misery from her, Solomon SHAKES ELIZA
ELIZA: It's all I have to keeps my loss You let yourself be overcome by sorrow. You will drown in it.
SOLOMON: You let yourself be overcome by sorrow. You will drown in it.
ELIZA: Have you stopped crying for your children? You make no sounds, but will you ever let them go in your .They are as my flesh.
SOLOMON: .They are as my flesh.
ELIZA: Then who is distressed? Do I upset the Mistress and the Master? Do you care less for my loss than their well being?
SOLOMON: Master Ford is a decent man.
ELIZA: He is a slaver.
SOLOMON: Under the circumstances
ELIZA: Under the circumstances he is a slaver! Christian only in his proclamations. Separated me from my precious babies for lack of a few dollars. But you truckle at
HIS BOOT: You luxuriate in his favor.
SOLOMON: You luxuriate in his favor.
ELIZA: You luxuriate in his favor.
SOLOMON: I survive. I will not fall into despair. Woeful and crushed; melancholy is the yolk I see most. I will offer up my talents to Master Ford. I will keep myself hearty until freedom is opportune.
ELIZA: Ford is your opportunity. Do you think he does not know that you are more than you suggest? But he does nothing for you. Nothing. You are no better than prized livestock. Call for him. Call, tell him of your previous circumstances and see what it earns you.Solomon. Eliza uses Solomon's name quite pointedly as if to underscore his true self. Solomon get her meaning. Yet he says nothing. Again, pointedly:
SOLOMON: ( DEFENSIVE )
ACCUSE ME: I accuse you of nothing. I cannot accuse. I too have done so many, many dishonorable things to survive. And for all of them I have ended up here. No better than if I had stood up for myself. Father, Lord and Savior forgive me. Forgive me. Oh, Solomon, let me weep for my children.
ELIZA: I accuse you of nothing. I cannot accuse. I too have done so many, many dishonorable things to survive. And for all of them I have ended up here. No better than if I had stood up for myself. Father, Lord and Savior forgive me. Forgive me. Oh, Solomon, let me weep for my children.
FORD: And Jesus called a little child unto him, and set him in the midst of them, And said, Verily I say unto you, Except ye be converted, and become as little children, ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven. The phrase seems to trigger Eliza's tears. She begins to sob uncontrollably. Mrs. Ford turns to Rachel in a hushed whisper-
MRS. FORD: I cannot have that kind of depression about. Solomon, pretending not to have heard, slowly turns to Eliza with worry. Ford continues to preach over Eliza's keening.
FORD: But whoso shall offend one of these little ones which believe in me, it were better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and that he were drowned in the depth of the sea. Woe unto
BLACK: 81 EXT. FORD PLANTATION - DAY 81
TIBEATS: Raise yer shirt. Solomon does as instructed. Tibeats looks at Solomon's back, at the scars from lashings he bears.
FORD: He's a good carpenter and quick- I am familiar with his cleverness.
TIBEATS: I am familiar with his cleverness.
FORD: You won't find a nigger more Ain't found a nigger yet I cain't Tibeats heads off. Solomon, highly curious over the Sir, have I done something wrong?
TIBEATS: Ain't found a nigger yet I cain't Tibeats heads off. Solomon, highly curious over the Sir, have I done something wrong?
SOLOMON: Sir, have I done something wrong?
FORD: Not your concern, Platt. I say with much.shame I have compiled debts. I have long preached austerity, but find myself hypocritical in that regard. You'll be in the ownership of Mr. Tibeats. You are his now. Serve him as you'd serve me.
SOLOMON: And your faithfulness will not be Yes, sir.
FORD: And your faithfulness will not be Yes, sir.
SOLOMON: Yes, sir.
FORD: Pride and want have been my sin. Loss of you is but one of my EXT. FORD PLANATION - DAY -END OF JANUARY, 1842- [OVER ONE DAY] We see Solomon working as a carpenter, helping to erect a Weaving House that stands off to the side of the plantation's Great House. At the moment Solomon is nailing on siding. Tibeats arrives and is immediately dissatisfied with the work.
TIBEATS: Make them boards flush.
SOLOMON: They are, sir.
TIBEATS: They is no such thing. Solomon runs his hands over the boards.
SOLOMON: As smooth to the touch as a yearling's coat.
TIBEATS: Callin' me a liar, boy?
SOLOMON: Only a matter of perspective, sir. From where you stand you may see differently. But the hands are not mistaken. I ask only that you employ all your senses before rendering judgement. What's Tibeats to do when faced with fact? All he can do is spew invectives.
TIBEATS: You are a brute. You are a dog, and no better for followin' I'll do as ordered, sir.
SOLOMON: I'll do as ordered, sir.
TIBEATS: Then you'll be up at daybreak. You will procure a keg of nails from Chapin and commence puttin' on clapboards. Tibeats wheels away. Solomon goes back to his work. After a few moments Solomon notices a bit of commotion in the drive of the great house. It involves an inconsolable Eliza who is being herded by Sam onto a cart DRIVEN BY A WHITE MAN. Mistress Ford and Rachel watch. Solomon can only watch as the last connection to his days as a free man is driven away to a location unknown.
CHAPIN: If Tibeats prefers a different size, I will endeavor to furnish them, but you may use those until further directed.
SOLOMON: Yes, sir.
TIBEATS: I thought I told yah ta commence ta puttin' on clapboards this Yes, master. I am about it. I have begun on the other side of the house. Tibeats walks around to look over Solomon's work. He is picayune, as if purposefully looking for fault.
SOLOMON: Yes, master. I am about it. I have begun on the other side of the house. Tibeats walks around to look over Solomon's work. He is picayune, as if purposefully looking for fault.
TIBEATS: Didn't I tell yah last night to get a keg of nails of Chapin?
SOLOMON: And so I did; and Chapin said he would get another size for you, if you wanted them when he came back from the field. Tibeats walks to the keg and kicks it. Moving toward Solomon "with a great passion:"
TIBEATS: Goddamn yah! I thought yah knowed Solomon, perhaps inspired by his moment with Eliza, is in no mood for Tibeats.
SOLOMON: I did as instructed. If there's something wrong, then its wrong with your instructions.
TIBEATS: Yah black bastard! Yah goddman black bastard! In an inconsolable rage, Tibeats runs off to the piazza to fetch a whip. Solomon looks around. He is alone other than Rachel and Mistress Ford who, shocked by that which she witnesses, runs out to the field to fetch Chapin. Solomon's instinct is to run, but he stands his ground as Tibeats marches back whip in hand.
SOLOMON: I will not. With "concentrated vengeance," Tibeats springs for Solomon, seizing him by the throat with one hand and
TIBEATS: Yew will not live ta see another day, nigger! This is yer last, I swear it! Solomon ignores the threats, continues to beat Tibeats. Blow after blow falling fast and heavy on Tibeats's wriggling form. The stiff stock of the whip wraps around Tibeats's cringing body until Solomon's arm aches. Tibeats's cries of vengeance turn to yelps for help and then pleas for mercy:
CHAPIN: What is the matter? Tibeats struggles up and tries to present an air of dignity and control while he keeps a demonic eye on
SOLOMON: Master Tibeats wants to whip me for using the nails you gave me.
CHAPIN: What's the matter with the nails? With a mix of shame, anger and embarrassment, Tibeats says, as if being exposed-
TIBEATS: They're.they're too large.
CHAPIN: I am overseer here. I told Platt to use them, and
TIBEATS: This ain't done by half. I will have flesh, and I will have all of Tibeats moves off toward, and then INTO THE HOUSE. Chapin follows. A long moment, Solomon stands alone. He looks around, not sure what to do; to stay or to flee. Anxiety mounts on his features. A moment more, and Tibeats EXITS the house. He saddles his horse and rides off to beat the devil. Or, worse, to fetch him. Chapin comes running back out of the house. He is visibly excited, and when he speaks he is quite earnest. Though he tries to project reasoned emotions he gives off an air of impending trouble.
CHAPIN: Do not stir. Do not attempt to leave the plantation on any account whatever. But if you run there is no protecting you.
SOLOMON: If you run, Platt, there is no protecting you. Rachel.! Chapin runs off to join Rachel. The two converse at a distance from Solomon, then they head off for the log Solomon is now very much alone, and he waits for what is to come. AND WE WAIT WITH HIM. And we wait, and we continue to wait. Moment by moment, the dread of the unexpected mounts. Solomon's eyes begin to well. He has beaten a white man, and he knows that death awaits him.
SIR: If you run, Platt, there is no protecting you. Rachel.! Chapin runs off to join Rachel. The two converse at a distance from Solomon, then they head off for the log Solomon is now very much alone, and he waits for what is to come. AND WE WAIT WITH HIM. And we wait, and we continue to wait. Moment by moment, the dread of the unexpected mounts. Solomon's eyes begin to well. He has beaten a white man, and he knows that death awaits him.
CHAPIN: If you run, Platt, there is no protecting you. Rachel.! Chapin runs off to join Rachel. The two converse at a distance from Solomon, then they head off for the log Solomon is now very much alone, and he waits for what is to come. AND WE WAIT WITH HIM. And we wait, and we continue to wait. Moment by moment, the dread of the unexpected mounts. Solomon's eyes begin to well. He has beaten a white man, and he knows that death awaits him.
TIBEATS: Tha's the one. Tha's him. Dismounting, they move with menace that is tinged with perverse pleasure and wordless malevolence. Solomon tries to fight back, but he is strong armed and tied by TIBEATS - his wrists, and then ankles bound in the same manner. In the meantime the other two have slipped a cord within Solomon's elbows, running it across his back and tying it firmly. Solomon is then dragged toward a peach tree. A lynching is in store. The naked horror of it intensely palpable. Solomon looks toward the piazza, but Chapin is now gone. Tears of fear flow down Solomon's cheeks. He is on the verge of panic; a man heading toward his own execution, he begins to struggle and fight. A rope goes around Solomon's neck, then is tossed over the branch of the tree. The trio begin to hoist Solomon. He gasps and gags as spittle flies from his mouth and the life is choked from him. With suddenness, Chapin comes from the house brandishing a pistol in each hand - Colt Paterson .36 caliber "Holster" pistols with 9" barrels. Chapin moves with determination toward the lynch mob. He is sharp and matter of fact. With the guns in hand, he really doesn't need to be much more demonstrative.
CHAPIN: Gentlemen. Whoever moves that nigger another foot from where he stands is a dead man. I am overseer of this plantation seven years, and in the absence of William Ford, my duty is to protect his interests. Ford holds a mortgage on Platt of four hundred dollars. If you hang him, he loses his debt. Until that is canceled you have no claim to his Directing his attention to Ramsay and Cook:
TIBEATS: Yah got no cause. Platt is mine, and mine ta do with as I please. Yah touch my property, I will 'ave yah strung up as well. Tibeats mounts up and departs. There is a surreal moment as Chapin's not sure what to do about Solomon. He chooses to do nothing. Solomon is left dangling by the neck from the tree as Chapin calls to Sam in the
CHAPIN: Sam! Get the mule. You must ride to Master Ford. Tell him to come here at once without a single moment's delay. Tell him they are trying to murder Platt. Hurry, boy. Bring him back if you must kill the mule to do so!
SAM: Yes, suh! Sam mounts up and rides off, the mule demonstrating much EXT. FORD PLANATION - LATER HOURS HAVE PASSED. The sun is now at its apex. The sight and smell of the red rose bush is more than vivid as Solomon remains tied and dangling exactly where he was left. The scene is both tranquil and horrific. Life on the plantation continues. The OTHER SLAVES work in the field. CHILDREN make their way playfully in the yard. It should all underscore the fact that a black, hanging even partially from a tree, is nothing unusual in this time and space.
OMIT: 87 EXT. FORD PLANATION - LATER 87
FORD: Platt. My poor Platt. Ford produces a blade and cuts Solomon loose. Solomon attempts to carry himself, but he cannot. He falls to the ground and passes out.
FORD: I believe Tibeats is skulkin' about the premises somewhere. He wants you dead, and he will attempt to have you so. It's no longer safe for you here. And I don't believe you will remain passive if Tibeats attacks. I have transferred my debt to Edwin Epps. He will take charge of you.
SOLOMON: ( desperate, urgent ) Master Ford, you must know; I am not a slave.
FORD: I cannot hear that.
SOLOMON: Before I came to you I was a I am trying to save your life! And.I have a debt to be mindful of. That, now, is to Edwin Epps. He is a hard man. Prides himself on being a "nigger breaker." But truthfully I could find no others who would have you. You've made a reputation of yourself. Whatever your circumstances, you are an exceptional nigger, Platt. I fear no good will come of it.
FORD: I am trying to save your life! And.I have a debt to be mindful of. That, now, is to Edwin Epps. He is a hard man. Prides himself on being a "nigger breaker." But truthfully I could find no others who would have you. You've made a reputation of yourself. Whatever your circumstances, you are an exceptional nigger, Platt. I fear no good will come of it.
EPPS: "And that servant which knew his Lord's will.WHICH KNEW HIS LORD'S WILL and prepared not himself.PREPARED NOT HIMSELF, neither did according to his will, shall be beaten with many stripes." D'ye hear that? "Stripes." That nigger that don't take care, that don't obey his lord - that's his master - d'ye see? - that 'ere nigger shall be beaten with many stripes. Now, "many" signifies a great many. Forty, a hundred, a hundred and fifty lashes. That's Scripter!
EDWARDS: Pick that cotton. Move along now.
TREACH: C'mon. Drive dem niggers. Edward moves among the slaves, applying the whip to them without regard.
EDWARD: Pick dat cotton. Move along now, EXT. MASTER EPPS'S PLANTATION/GIN HOUSE - EVENING The day's work is done. The slaves are now assembled in the gin house with their baskets of cotton which are being weighed by Treach. There is anxiety among the slave, the reason for which soon becomes apparent.
TREACH: Two hundred forty pounds for Bob.
EPPS: What yah got for James?
TREACH: Two hundred ninety five pounds.
EPPS: Tha's real good, boy. Tha's real One hundred eighty two pounds for Epps does not look happy. Treach says again:
TREACH: One hundred eighty two pounds for Epps does not look happy. Treach says again:
EPPS: How much can even an average nigger pick a day?
TREACH: Two hundred pounds.
EPPS: This nigger ain't even average. Epps pulls Solomon aside.
TREACH: Five hundred twelve pounds for Five hundred twelve. Yah men folk got no shame lettin' Patsey out pick yah? The day ain't yet come she swung lower than five hundred pounds. Queen of the fields, she Two hundred six pou
EPPS: Five hundred twelve. Yah men folk got no shame lettin' Patsey out pick yah? The day ain't yet come she swung lower than five hundred pounds. Queen of the fields, she Two hundred six pou
TREACH: Two hundred six pou
EPPS: I ain't done, Treach. Ain't I owed a minute to luxuriate on the work Patsey done?
TREACH: Damned Queen. Born and bred to the field. A nigger among niggers, and God give 'er to me. A lesson in the rewards of righteous livin'. All be observant ta that. All!
EPPS: Damned Queen. Born and bred to the field. A nigger among niggers, and God give 'er to me. A lesson in the rewards of righteous livin'. All be observant ta that. All!
TREACH: One hundred thirty eight pounds for Phebe.
EPPS: Hit one forty five yesterday. Pull her out.
TREACH: Two hundred six pounds for Wiley.
EPPS: How much he pick yesterday?
TREACH: Two hundred twenty nine pounds. Wiley is pulled from the line, huddled with Solomon.
UNCLE ABRAM: Hold my words: General Jackson will forever be immortalized. His bravery will be handed down to the last posterity. If ever there be a stain upon "raw militia," he done wiped away on the eight of January. I say da result a that day's battle is of 'mo importance to our grand nation than any occurrence 'fo or since. Great man. Great man in deed. We all need pray to Heavenly Father da General reign over us always.
EPPS: Get up! Get up, we dance tonight! We will not waste the evenin' with yer laziness. Get up.
EPPS: Where's yah merriment? Move yer As the slaves twirl about Epps keeps an attentive eye on Patsey. It should be quite clear that his primary motivation for holding dances is so that he may view Patsey twirl about the floor. This fact is not lost on Mistress Epps. A few moments of Epps's lust on display is all that the Mistress can bear. Jealousy mounting, she snatches up a CARAFE. With all her might she throws it at Patsey. It hits Patsey square in the face. TOO THICK TO SHATTER, IT LEAVES HER BLOODY AND WRITHING ON THE FLOOR. The dancing, the music stop. The slaves, however, react as though it is not the first time they've seen as much from the Mistress. Mistress Epps, screaming like a hellion:
MISTRESS EPPS: Sell her!
EPPS: C'mon, now. Wha's this?
MISTRESS EPPS: You will sell the negress!
EPPS: You're talkin' foolish. Sell little Pats? She pick with more vigor than any other nigger! Choose another ta go.
MISTRESS EPPS: No other. Sell her!
EPPS: I will not!
MISTRESS EPPS: You will remove that black bitch from this property, 'er I'll take myself back to Cheneyville.
EPPS: Back to that hog's trough where I found you? Oh, the idleness of that yarn washes over me. Do not set yourself up against Patsey, my dear. That's a wager on which you will not profit. Calm yerself. And settle for my affection, 'cause my affection you got. Or, go. 'Cause I will rid myself of yah well before I do away with Mistress Epps stands irate, lost in fury and unable to even think of what to do. Eventually, optionless, she storms away. For a few beats there is only the sound of Patsey That damned woman! I won't have my mood spoiled. I will not. Epps sends the whip in Solomon's direction. Solomon responds by playing. Treach literally drags the prone Patsey from the floor, blood still spilling from her face. The slaves, as ordered, return to dancing.
MISTRESS EPPS: Yes, Mistress.
SOLOMON: Yes, Mistress.
MISTRESS EPPS: Can you find your way to I can, ma'am. Handing Solomon a sheet of paper.
SOLOMON: I can, ma'am. Handing Solomon a sheet of paper.
MISTRESS EPPS: This is a list of goods and sundries. You will take it to be filled and return immediately. Tell Bartholomew to add it to our I will, Mistress. Solomon looks at the list. In a careless moment, Solomon reads quietly from it. He catches himself, but not before the Mistress notes his action. With high
SOLOMON: I will, Mistress. Solomon looks at the list. In a careless moment, Solomon reads quietly from it. He catches himself, but not before the Mistress notes his action. With high
MISTRESS EPPS: Where yah from, Platt?
SOLOMON: I have told you.
MISTRESS EPPS: Tell me again.
SOLOMON: MISTRESS EPPS
MISTRESS EPPS: Who were yah Master?
SOLOMON: Master name of Freeman.
MISTRESS EPPS: Was he a learned man?
SOLOMON: I suppose so.
MISTRESS EPPS: He learn yah ta read?
SOLOMON: A word here or there, but I have no understanding of the written Don't trouble yer self with it. Same as the rest, Master bought yah to work. Tha's all. And any more'll earn yah a hun'red lashes. Having delivered her cool advice, Mistress heads back into the house.
MISTRESS EPPS: Don't trouble yer self with it. Same as the rest, Master bought yah to work. Tha's all. And any more'll earn yah a hun'red lashes. Having delivered her cool advice, Mistress heads back into the house.
A101 A101: EXT. ROAD - DAY Solomon walks along a well-worn path, shopping bag draped over one shoulder. We see his feet. As the walk slowly gathers pace, Solomon suddenly turns left into dense foliage. His tread is now a full blown sprint, trees flash past as Solomon attacks his way through the woods. The sound of branches cracking underneath. His feet, heartbeat and breath almost deafening. He is desperate. The violence of his advance abruptly stops, there is silence. We see in a clearance a posse of patrollers, preparing for a lynching of two young men. Solomon's eyes meet theirs. The two men look back at Solomon with a look of fear as one of the patrollers checks the noose around their neck. Suddenly the bloodhounds start barking and the patrollers turn in the direction of Solomon. Solomon's whole body shakes with anticipation.
PATROLLER: ( AGGRESSIVELY )
SOLOMON: ( almost tripping over
PATROLLER: Get there and get there quick. The patroller kicks Solomon hard, sending him on his way. Solomon walks on, looking one more time at the two young men; again there is a moment of connection. Solomon turns. The two men are hoisted up, kicking and spitting, behind his shoulder. Solomon finds himself back on the trail walking towards Bartholomew's, his face now full of shock and
MISTRESS EPPS: Any trouble?
SOLOMON: No, ma'am. No trouble.
MASTER SHAW: Platt Epps, good Sunday morning.
SOLOMON: Good morning, Master Shaw. I've been sent by Master to retrieve Patsey. May I approach?
MASTER SHAW: You may. Solomon makes his way over to the piazza.
SOLOMON: Excuse me, Mistress Shaw.
MISTRESS SHAW: Nigger Platt.
SOLOMON: My apologies. Patsey, Master wishes you to return.
PATSEY: Sabbath day. I's free ta roam.
SOLOMON: Understood. But the Master sent me running to fetch you, and said no time should be wasted.
MISTRESS SHAW: Drink tea?
SOLOMON: Thank you, Mistress, but I don't Would you knowed Massa Epps's consternation ta be any lessened wit your timely return? Sit. Sit and drink the tea that offered.
MISTRESS SHAW: Would you knowed Massa Epps's consternation ta be any lessened wit your timely return? Sit. Sit and drink the tea that offered.
SOLOMON: .I'd rather not say.
MISTRESS SHAW: L'il gossip on the Sabbath be fine. All things in moderation. Solomon is not sure what to say. He struggles to be as diplomatic as possible.
SOLOMON: As you are aware, Master Epps can be a man of a hard countenance. There are times when it is impossible to account for his logic. You know he has ill feelings toward your husband.
MISTRESS SHAW: He do.
SOLOMON: Master Epps has somehow come to believe, as incorrectly as it may be, that Master Shaw is. That he is something of a lothario and an unprincipled man. A misguided belief born out of their mutual competition as planters, no doubt.
MISTRESS SHAW: No doubt.if not born outta truth The Mistress waves to Shaw. Shaw, unsuspecting of the conversation, waves back.
SOLOMON: I'm certain Patsey's well being is Master Epps's only concern.
MISTRESS SHAW: Nothin' Epps desire come outta I meant no disrespect.
SOLOMON: I meant no disrespect.
MISTRESS SHAW: He ain't heard you.
SOLOMON: I meant no disrespect to you, Ha! You worry for me? Got no cause to worry for my sensibilities. I ain't felt the end of a lash in 'mo years than I cain recall. Ain't worked a field, neither. Where one time I served, now I got others servin' me. The cost to my current existence be Massa Shaw broadcasting his affections, 'n me enjoyin' his pantomime of fidelity. If that what keep me from the cotton pickin' niggers, that what it be. A small and reasonable price to be paid 'fo Looking toward Patsey, speaking with great empathy:
MISTRESS SHAW: Ha! You worry for me? Got no cause to worry for my sensibilities. I ain't felt the end of a lash in 'mo years than I cain recall. Ain't worked a field, neither. Where one time I served, now I got others servin' me. The cost to my current existence be Massa Shaw broadcasting his affections, 'n me enjoyin' his pantomime of fidelity. If that what keep me from the cotton pickin' niggers, that what it be. A small and reasonable price to be paid 'fo Looking toward Patsey, speaking with great empathy:
EPPS: Pats.! Patsey!
SOLOMON: Do not look in his direction. Continue on. Epps does not care to be ignored. He lifts himself and moves toward the pair in a rage.
EPPS: Solomon moves between Epps and Patsey, cutting Epps off as Patsey continues on. Playing up his "ignorance" of
SOLOMON: Found her, Master, and brought her back just as instructed.
EPPS: What'd you jus now tell her? What'd you say to Pats?
SOLOMON: No words were spoken. None of Lie! Damned liar! Saw you talkin' with 'er. Tell me!
EPPS: Lie! Damned liar! Saw you talkin' with 'er. Tell me!
SOLOMON: I cannot speak of what did not Epps grabs Solomon.
EPPS: I'll cut your black throat. Solomon pulls away from Epps, RIPPING HIS SHIRT IN THE PROCESS. Epps gives chase. Solomon begins to run around the large pig sty, easily keeping his distance. Epps, however is undeterred. He moves after Solomon as speedily as he can, which isn't very speedily at all. And quickly he tires. Epps is forced to bend over and suck air. Solomon maintains his distance, barely breathing hard. His breath returned to him, Epps starts up the chase again. Solomon runs on out of reach. Shortly, Epps again stops, gets his breath. And now in what should be quite comical, Epps again runs after Solomon. Again, Epps's vigor leaves him before he can even get close to the slave. Dropping down to the dirt, in a show of regret and piety:
MISTRESS EPPS: What? Wha's the fuss?
SOLOMON: A misunderstanding is all. It began when I was sent to retrieve Patsey from where she'd taken sabbatical at Master Shaw's. Upon returning, Master Epps believed Patsey and me to be in conversation when we were not. I tried to explain, but it lead to all this.
MISTRESS EPPS: What is it? Ya cain't remain the Sabbath without her under your eye? Ya are a no-account bastard.
EPPS: Hold a moment.
MISTRESS EPPS: A filthy, godless heathen. My bed is too holy for yah ta share.
EPPS: Wha's.wha's he been tellin' yah?
MISTRESS EPPS: Of yer misbegotten ways.
EPPS: And he would know what of anythin'? I ain't even spoken with him today. Platt, yah lyin' nigger, have I? Have I? Discretion being the better part and all, Solomon remains There; there's all the truth he got. Damned nigger. Damn yah. Epps pushes his way past the Mistress.
TREACH: Get him water. Edward runs to fetch a gourd. He carries it to Henry,
EDWARD: Go'won. Git up. Unsteadily, Henry lifts himself and goes back to picking cotton. He joins in again with the spiritual, as if the song is all that can keep him going.
UNCLE ABRAM: We dance tonight, massa? Epps remains quietly focused on Patsey. And it's clear from her apprehensive expression just what it is he's come looking for. This time there is no escaping it. As if to acknowledge the badness to come, Phebe lightly EXT. MASTER EPPS'S PLANTATION/SMOKE HOUSE - NIGHT On top of a wood pile, in the back of the smoke house - Epps shoves Patsey. He stops, stands as if gathering his manhood, then he's all over Patsey. He is rough and clumsy. It looks like something between an awkward rape and a virgin attempting his first sexual encounter. Patsey does not respond in any way other than to continually turn her head from Epps, but otherwise remain as still as possible. If there is such a thing, she is vicious with her passive aggressiveness. Epps's frustration mounts until - as the Mistress Shaw had cautioned - he crosses the line from passion to violence. He begins slapping Patsey to get a response from her. When that fails, he punches her which only leads to him taking up his whip and lashing Patsey MERCILESSLY. Still, she gives him nothing. Beaten, Patsey sits in the dirt among the cotton, Epps deep breathing above her. The desire for sex now having left Epps heads from the field. Patsey is left where she is.
MISTRESS EPPS: A moment from the dancing. Come sample what I baked for y'all. The slaves, thankful for the rest as much as the food, file toward the tray reciting a chorus of "Thank you, Mistress." As Patsey moves toward the pastries:
EPPS: Seen nothin' but her turn away.
MISTRESS EPPS: Are you blind or ignorant? It was hot, hateful scorn. It filled that black face. Yah tell me yah did'n see it, then yah choose not to look, or yah sayin' I lie.
EPPS: Whatever it was, it passed.
MISTRESS EPPS: Is that how yah are with the niggers? Let every ill thought fester inside 'em. Look at 'em.
PATSEY: Platt. Platt, you awake?
SOLOMON: I am.
PATSEY: I have a request; an act of Patsey displays what she took from hiding. It is a
SOLOMON: Return it!
PATSEY: It yours, Platt.
SOLOMON: For what cause?
PATSEY: All I ask: end my life. Take my body to the margin of the swamp Solomon looks at Patsey as though she were insane.
SOLOMON: Take me by the throat. Hold me low in the water until I's still 'n without life. Bury me in a lonely place of dyin'.
PATSEY: Take me by the throat. Hold me low in the water until I's still 'n without life. Bury me in a lonely place of dyin'.
SOLOMON: No! I will do no such thing. The.the gory detail with which
YOU SPEAK: I thought on it long and hard.
PATSEY: I thought on it long and hard.
SOLOMON: It is melancholia, nothing more. How does such despair even come to How can you not know? I got no comfort in this life. If I cain't buy mercy from yah, I'll beg it.
PATSEY: How can you not know? I got no comfort in this life. If I cain't buy mercy from yah, I'll beg it.
SOLOMON: There are others. Beg them.
PATSEY: I'm begging you!
SOLOMON: Why? Why would you consign me to damnation with such an un-Godly There is God here! God is merciful, and He forgive merciful acts. Won't be no hell for you. Do it. Do what I ain't got the strength ta do myself. Solomon says nothing. Clearly he's not about to do the deed. With nothing else to do, knowing she is damned with every breath she draws, Patsey crawls back to her spot on the floor and lays herself down.
PATSEY: There is God here! God is merciful, and He forgive merciful acts. Won't be no hell for you. Do it. Do what I ain't got the strength ta do myself. Solomon says nothing. Clearly he's not about to do the deed. With nothing else to do, knowing she is damned with every breath she draws, Patsey crawls back to her spot on the floor and lays herself down.
BLACK: 115 115
EPPS: It is a plague.
EPPS: A plague! It's damn Biblical. Two season God done sent a plague to smite me. I am near ruination. Why, Treach? What I done that God hate me so? Do I not preach His TREACH ( O.S. ) The whole Bayou sufferin'.
EPPS: I don't care nothin' fer the damn Bayou. I'm sufferin'. Epps looks among his slaves at work, his enmity growing.
EPPS' SLAVE: I hear cutting cane is twice as hard as picking cotton.
BOB: But at least we'll be away from Master Epps.
UNCLE ABRAM: Boy, you two have no sense. Epps returns to his slaves and gives a parting Yer Judge Turner's for the season. More if need be, until my crop return. Yah'll bring no disrespect to me, and yah'll bring no biblical plagues to him. Be decent, ere mark my words, I will deliver an ungodly whippin'.
EPPS: Yer Judge Turner's for the season. More if need be, until my crop return. Yah'll bring no disrespect to me, and yah'll bring no biblical plagues to him. Be decent, ere mark my words, I will deliver an ungodly whippin'.
OVERSEER: Draw the cane from the rick, cut the top and flags from the stalk, understand? Leave only that part which is sound and healthy. Cast off the rest.
OMIT: 123 EXT. JUDGE TURNER'S PLANTATION/GREAT HOUSE - EVENING 123
ZACHARY: Off the porch. Get off. Like a dog shooed away, Solomon steps down. Eventually Judge Turner exits the house and crosses to Platt is it? Have you cultivated cane previously?
SOLOMON: JUDGE TURNER
JUDGE TURNER: Platt is it? Have you cultivated cane previously?
SOLOMON: No, sir, I have not.
JUDGE TURNER: You take to it quite naturally. Are you educated?
SOLOMON: Niggers are hired to work, not to read and write. Turner gives that a bit of consideration as he gives Solomon a wary looking over.
JUDGE TURNER: You play the fiddle?
SOLOMON: I do.
JUDGE TURNER: Willard Yarney, a planter up the bayou, celebrates his anniversary in a three week's time. I will hold out your name to him. What you earn is yours to keep.
SOLOMON: JUDGE TURNER
JUDGE TURNER: Mind yourself, Platt.
SOLOMON: Yes, sir.
A127 A127: A127A INT. SLAVE SHACK - DAY A127A
OMITTED: A127A INT. SLAVE SHACK - DAY A127A
SOLOMON: C'mere. C'mon, boy.
A129 A129: EXT. TURNER PLANTATION - NIGHT Outside of the slave shacks Solomon's wound tended by Uncle Abram. As he works on it:
UNCLE ABRAM: Runaways I would expect. The Bayou full with 'em. They nothin' 'mo dangerous than a nigger in They acted out of desperation.
SOLOMON: They acted out of desperation.
UNCLE ABRAM: Act outta lunacy. Heads fulla stories 'bout life up north. Yah ever been north, Platt?
SOLOMON: UNCLE ABRAM
UNCLE ABRAM: And never should yah be. I hope that yah never bear witness the sorry condition of the northern black. Got neither no purpose, nor direction. They jus.they jus fall about the streets in search of sustenance of both body and spirit.
SOLOMON: You know this to be so?
UNCLE ABRAM: Two of my massas tolt me.
CELESTE: I am hungry. Give me food.
SOLOMON: Who are you?
CELESTE: I'm hungry. Solomon gives Celeste some of his food. Celeste, famished, devours it.
SOLOMON: What is your name?
CELESTE: My name is Celeste.
SOLOMON: What are your circumstances?
CELESTE: I belong ta Massa Carey, and 'ave been two days among da palmettoes. Celeste is sick and cain't work, and would rather die in the swamp
SOLOMON: There are some whose tracks the hounds will refuse to follow.
CELESTE: There are some whose tracks the hounds will refuse to follow.
SOLOMON: There are some whose tracks the hounds will refuse to follow.
CELESTE: Give me more food. I'm starvin'.
SOLOMON: This is all my allowance for the
REST OF: Give it to me. Almost as if compelled, Solomon does as ordered. As she eats, Celeste aggrandizes herself:
CELESTE: Give it to me. Almost as if compelled, Solomon does as ordered. As she eats, Celeste aggrandizes herself:
CELESTE: I am hungry. Solomon gives Celeste the handkerchief he's filled. She opens it, and begins to devour the food. As she eats:
SOLOMON: ( BEAT )
CELESTE: Was you free?
SOLOMON: I was. I am. Solomon exposes his wrist, displays his tattoo as he
CELESTE: Free heart means nothin if'n yo body gunna die a slave.
SOLOMON: I will not.
CELESTE: How? Celeste knows you ain't gunna run. Celeste knows it ain't your nature.
SOLOMON: I have a plan. I have a letter.
CELESTE: A letter? How'll yah mail da letter? Who yah trust to post it? A nigger that can read and write is a nigger that'll hang. There is a pause. Solomon can't answer this question. It is the glaring hole in his plan. Having finished eating:
SOLOMON: I risk discovery to take more.
CELESTE: You will bring Celeste 'mo food. And with that Celeste again moves back into the darkness.
OMIT: 134 OMIT 134
SOLOMON: I have my letter.
CELESTE: Yah has your freedom then?
SOLOMON: All that remains is to contrive measures by which the letter can safely be deposited in the post When Celeste speaks she is quite melancholy.
CELESTE: I have resolved to return to my Solomon gives an unnerved look. This is not good news.
SOLOMON: Is it more food you need?
CELESTE: I live in fear.
SOLOMON: None will come after you in the It ain't the patrollers I scared of. At all seasons the howling of wild animals can be heard at night along the border of the swamps. At first their calls were welcomin'. Dey too was free, 'n I thought dey greeted me like a sistah. Lately, dey cries have turned horrifyin'. They mean to kill Celeste.
CELESTE: It ain't the patrollers I scared of. At all seasons the howling of wild animals can be heard at night along the border of the swamps. At first their calls were welcomin'. Dey too was free, 'n I thought dey greeted me like a sistah. Lately, dey cries have turned horrifyin'. They mean to kill Celeste.
SOLOMON: The solitude plays tricks. It's your impression, nothing more. If you go back to your master you could face the same.
CELESTE: My freedom been nothin' but a daydream. So was Celeste's thoughts of slaves conjoinin' in the bayou.
SOLOMON: Better the loneliness. You have been free most of the summer. Return now and your master will make example of you.
CELESTE: It is lonely dwellin' waiting for others who won't never come.
SOLOMON: Go north. Make your way by It'll only be worse if'n Celeste don't go back of her own will.
CELESTE: It'll only be worse if'n Celeste don't go back of her own will.
SOLOMON: You won't be caught. The dogs won't track you. You are.you are unique. Celeste.
CELESTE: You got alternatives, Solomon.
SOLOMON: To return is to die!
CELESTE: Celeste got no one to write a letter to. As if to punctuate her resolve, without a word more Celeste departs toward the swamp. Solomon starts on into the swamp after her.
SOLOMON: Celeste. Celeste! Solomon continues after Celeste, wading deeper into the dark night and murky waters.
BLACK: 139 139
EPPS: A joyous day. A joyous day. Dark times is behind us. Clean livin' 'n prayer done lifted the plague. Indicating to the cotton:
EPPS: Two hundred sixty pounds.
TREACH: Two hundred sixty pounds.
EPPS: Three hundred forty pounds for Five hundred twenty pounds.
TREACH: Three hundred forty pounds for Five hundred twenty pounds.
EPPS: Five hundred twenty pounds.
TREACH: Five hundred twenty pounds.
EPPS: Tha's a girl. Don't never let me down. Platt?
TREACH: One hundred sixty pounds. Before Treach is even done announcing the weight, Epps has pulled Solomon aside to where Uncle Abram already awaits his fate.
EPPS: Sixty four pounds. Epps speaks to Armsby sternly, but nothing of the manner in which he would address the slaves.
TREACH: Sixty four pounds. Epps speaks to Armsby sternly, but nothing of the manner in which he would address the slaves.
EPPS: A good days labor would average two hundred pounds.
ARMSBY: Yes, sir.
EPPS: I'm sure in time y'll develope as a picker, but it takes effort, boy. Put some damn effort into Yes, sir. To Treach, regarding Solomon and Abram:
ARMSBY: Yes, sir. To Treach, regarding Solomon and Abram:
EPPS: Take 'em out. Get to whippin'. No force is needed. The slaves understand the situation. They follow Treach out of the Gin house.
ARMSBY: It's a tragedy. How does such come to pass? Working a field and picking cotton like a lowly hand. I'm of a damn sight better station. And my desires never lacked for a grandiose component, though I will admit they have at times been short on ingenuity. But only at times. I've worked as an overseer, you know.
SOLOMON: I did not, sir.
ARMSBY: Not "sir." Just Armsby. Not owed more than any other in the field. I worked plantations from Virginia, down into Alabama. I could manage easy a hundred slaves and have done so. But to toil in the field? Never thought that would come to pass. Never. But times are desperate. Where once I had said "no" to Epps and his merger offerings, I returned cap
SOLOMON: How did you arrive at such a place, if I may ask?
ARMSBY: Ask. It's just conversation. From a pocket Armsby produces a flask.
SOLOMON: Where is your place of birth?
ARMSBY: Maryland. Have you traveled .I cannot say that I have.
SOLOMON: .I cannot say that I have.
ARMSBY: Fine country. More seasonal than the bayou. A deal less humid.
SOLOMON: Why did you leave it?
ARMSBY: To make my fortune, of course. I gave in to tales of wealth and prosperity that were the lore of the southern states: all that's needed being a patch of land and a few good growing seasons. Cotton,
TREACH: Get him water. Edward runs to fetch water which he carries to Abram and
SAY: I just want to say something about Uncle Abram. He was a good man and he always looked out for us since we were little. God Bless him. God love him. And God keep him. That done, they begin to cover it with dirt. It is all the more of a funeral that Abram will receive.
BOB: I just want to say something about Uncle Abram. He was a good man and he always looked out for us since we were little. God Bless him. God love him. And God keep him. That done, they begin to cover it with dirt. It is all the more of a funeral that Abram will receive.
OMIT: 147 OMIT 147
OMIT: 150 INT. EPPS'S PLANTATION/ARMSBY'S SHACK - LATER 150
SOLOMON: The proceeds of my fiddling performances. A few picayunes, but all I have in the world. I promise them to you if you will do me the favor I require. But I beg you not to expose me if you cannot grant the request.
ARMSBY: What do you ask?
SOLOMON: First, your word, sir.
ARMSBY: On my honor.
SOLOMON: It is a simple enough request. I ask only that you deposit a letter in the Marksville post office. And that you keep the action an inviolable secret forever. The details of the letter are of no consequence. Even at that, there would be an imposition of much pain and suffering were it known I was the author. A patron is what I require, sir.
ARMSBY: Where's the letter now?
SOLOMON: .It is not yet written. I will have it in a day. Two at most, my skill with composition as poor as it is. Armsby considers the request.
ARMSBY: I will do it. And will accept whatever payment is offered. Solomon hesitates. In the moment, he's not so sure he can wholly give himself over to trust.
SOLOMON: In two days. .Thank you. Solomon exits.
EPPS: Get up. Solomon does. Epps heads back out into the dark. He says nothing, but his directive is clear: Follow me.
EPPS: Well, boy. I understand I've got a larned nigger that writes
SOLOMON: All I have to say, master, is all that need be said. There is no truth in it.
EPPS: You say.
SOLOMON: How could I write a letter without ink or paper? There is nobody I want to write to 'cause I hain't got no friends living as I know of. That Armsby is a lying drunken fellow. You know this, just as you know that I am constant in truth. Now, master, I can see what that Armsby is after, plain enough. Didn't he want you to hire him for an overseer? A beat.
EPPS: I'm damned. I'll be god. Were he not free and white, Platt. Were he not free and white. Epps heads off. Solomon is left to exhale a deep breath.
A155 A155: EXT. MASTER EPPS'S PLANTATION/GREAT HOUSE - DAY -MARCH, 1852- The slaves are now employed working on an extension to the Great House. The slaves work under the direction of MR. SAMUEL BASS, a between forty and fifty years old, of light complexion and light hair. He is cool and self- possessed, fond of argument, but always speaking with extreme deliberation as well as a Canadian accent.
B155 B155: EXT. MASTER EPPS'S PLANTATION/GREAT HOUSE - DAY As the slaves continue to work, there is a conversation going on between Epps and Bass. Bass much skilled in the art of sophistry, while Epps's arguments are fueled mostly by emotion alone. Though at first Epps does little more than joke his way around the facts. Solomon, working still, can't help but overhear as Epps offers Bass a drink, which Bass waves away.
EPPS: Take it. You look unsettled.
BASS: I'm well.
EPPS: No shame in taking respite from the heat; drink, shade. It's ungodly for travelers. Hearty, or B155 CONTINUED: B155 Bass gives a laugh.
BASS: Your humor is inadvertent. Sensing perhaps Bass's laughter might be at his expense, Epps presses.
EPPS: Then share what's funny. Or what ills you.
BASS: I'm here to complete the work at hand. As requested, and as paid.
EPPS: Something rubs you wrongly. Before I take further offense, I offer you the opportunity to speak on it.
BASS: You ask plainly, I will tell you plainly. What I find amusing: You worry about my well being in the heat but, quite frankly, the condition of your laborers
EPPS: "The condition of my." What in the hell are you
BASS: It is horrid. It's all wrong. All wrong, sir.
EPPS: They ain't hired help. They're my You say that with pride.
BASS: You say that with pride.
EPPS: I say it as fact.
BASS: If the conversation concerns what is factual and what is not; there's no justice nor righteousness in slavery. I wouldn't own a slave if I was rich as Croesus, which I am not, as is perfectly well understood. More particularly among my creditors. There's another humbug: the credit system. Humbug, sir. No credit, no debt. Credit leads a man into temptation. Cash down is the only thing that will deliver him from
EPPS: What right? I bought 'em. I paid for 'em.
BASS: Of course you did. The law says you have the right to hold a nigger, but begging the law's pardon.it lies. Is everything right because the law allows it? Suppose they'd pass a law taking away your liberty and making you a That ain't a supposable case.
EPPS: That ain't a supposable case.
BASS: That ain't a supposable case.
EPPS: That ain't a supposable case.
BASS: Because the law states that your liberties are undeniable? Because society deems it so? Laws change. Social systems crumble. Universal truths are constant. It is a fact, it is a plain fact that what is true and right is true and right for all. White and black Whoa, whoa, whoa. Yah compare me to a nigger, Bass? Yah might as well ask what the difference is between a white man and a baboon. Now, I seen one of them critters in Orleans that knowed just as much as any nigger I got. Yah'd call them fellers citizens, I Look here; you can't laugh me down in that way. These niggers are human beings. If they are allowed to scale no higher than brute animals, you and men like you will have to answer for it. There's an
EPPS: Whoa, whoa, whoa. Yah compare me to a nigger, Bass? Yah might as well ask what the difference is between a white man and a baboon. Now, I seen one of them critters in Orleans that knowed just as much as any nigger I got. Yah'd call them fellers citizens, I Look here; you can't laugh me down in that way. These niggers are human beings. If they are allowed to scale no higher than brute animals, you and men like you will have to answer for it. There's an
BASS: Look here; you can't laugh me down in that way. These niggers are human beings. If they are allowed to scale no higher than brute animals, you and men like you will have to answer for it. There's an
ILL: ( CONTINUED )
EPPS: A fearful ill, resting on this
BASS: A fearful ill, resting on this
NATION: You betray yourself a foreigner!
EPPS: You betray yourself a foreigner!
BASS: That will not go unpunished forever. There will be a reckoning yet.
EPPS: You like to hear yourself talk, Bass, better than any man I know of. Yah'd argue that black was white, or white black if anybody would contradict you. A fine supposition if yah lived among Yankees in New England. But yah You most assuredly do not.
EPPS: Patsey. Patsey! A drunk Epps asks of the slaves:
PHEBE: We know nothin' of her, Massa.
EPPS: The hell you don't! You know where she is! She run off, ain't she? She's escaped, and you miserable black dogs stand like
EPPS: Run off. Run off, did you?
PATSEY: MASSA EPPS
MASSA EPPS: You miserable wench! Where you I been nowhere.
EPPS: You miserable wench! Where you I been nowhere.
PATSEY: I been nowhere.
EPPS: Lies to your misdeeds!
PATSEY: The Sabbath day, Massa. I took me a walk to commune wit da Lord.
EPPS: Bring the Lord into yer deceptions? Yah Godless. Shaw's. Comin' from Shaw's plantation weren't yah?
PATSEY: ( CONTINUED ) 156 CONTINUED: ( 2 ) 156
EPPS: Yah took yerself ta pleasure Shaw. Yah gave baser passion to that unblushin' libertine! Solomon tries to intervene:
SOLOMON: MASTER EPPS
MASTER EPPS: Now yah speak? Now that yah want to add to 'er lies yah find yer Epps goes to strike Solomon, but Patsey pulls his arm Do not strike him. I went to Massa Shaw's plantation!
EPPS: Now yah speak? Now that yah want to add to 'er lies yah find yer Epps goes to strike Solomon, but Patsey pulls his arm Do not strike him. I went to Massa Shaw's plantation!
PATSEY: Do not strike him. I went to Massa Shaw's plantation!
EPPS: Yah admit it.
PATSEY: Freely. And you know why. Patsey takes soap from the pocket of her dress.
EPPS: You lie.
PATSEY: The Lord knows that's all.
EPPS: You lie!
PATSEY: And you blind wit yer own covetousness. I don't lie, Massa. If you kill me, I'll stick ta I'll learn you to go to Shaw's. Treach, go get some line.
EPPS: I'll learn you to go to Shaw's. Treach, go get some line.
MISTRESS EPPS: Do it! Strike the life from her. Epps again hoists the whip. It trembles in his hand ahead of the act. But he does not have it in him to deliver such a beating. Turning to Solomon, thrusting the whip at him:
EPPS: Beat her. Solomon doesn't move. Epps shoves the whip into his Give her the whip. Give it all to Patsey, begging to Solomon:
PATSEY: I'd rather it you, Platt.
EPPS: Strike her, or yah'll get the Solomon takes a step back. He unfurls the whip. He begins to whip Patsey. Lash after lash, Patsey squirms before it. Epps eyes fill with tears, he is nearly too distraught to watch. But the Mistress. She is not satisfied with Solomon's half-hearted effort.
MISTRESS EPPS: He pantomimes. There ain't barely a welt on her. That's what your niggers make of yah; a fool fer the takin'. Epps's grief is replaced by fury. EPPS GRABS THE PISTOL FROM TREACH'S HOLSTER and draws down on the slaves.
EPPS: Yah will strike her. Yah will strike her until her flesh is rent and meat and blood flow equal, or I will kill every nigger in my Solomon can't strike a blow, even if it means his life. But from the ground, from Patsey:
PATSEY: Do it, Platt. Don't stop until I am dead. What else can he do? Solomon begins to whip, to truly whip Patsey. Her back welts, then tears. Patsey screams in agony. Solomon strikes again and again. After a full thirty lashes Solomon looks to Epps, who is not satisfied.
EPPS: Until I say no more! I ain't said Solomon strikes another ten to fifteen times. By now, as promised, Patsey's back has been reduced to LITTLE MORE
SOLOMON: Thou devil! Sooner or later, somewhere in the course of eternal justice thou shalt answer for this Though Epps fronts rage, there should be underlying anguish for what he has done to his beloved Pats.
EPPS: No sin! There is no sin! A man does how he pleases with his property. At the moment, Platt, I am of great pleasure. You be goddamn careful I don't come to wantin' to lightenin' my mood no By contrast to this horror, the field of cotton smiles in the warm sunlight. The birds chirp merrily amidst the foliage of the tress. Peace and happiness seems to reign Everywhere else. Epps leaves Patsey to herself. He says not a word to the Mistress as he passes. The Mistress herself heads back into the house. Solomon unties Patsey, lifts her and takes her to the INT. CABIN - LATER Patsey is laid on some boards where she remains for a long time with eyes closed and groaning in agony. Phebe applies melted tallow to her wounds, and all try to assist and console her. In time Patsey opens her eyes. She looks to Solomon. She does not say a word. She just looks at him.and then her eyes close again.
EVENING: -APRIL, 1852- Solomon and Bass are working together alone on the extension. From the amount of work that's been done on it, it should be obvious that days have now passed. Solomon makes a cautious approach to Bass. As casually as he can he inquires:
SOLOMON: Master Bass, I want to ask you what part of the country you came No part of this land. I was born in Canada. Now guess where that Oh, I know where Canada is. I have been there myself.
BASS: No part of this land. I was born in Canada. Now guess where that Oh, I know where Canada is. I have been there myself.
SOLOMON: Oh, I know where Canada is. I have been there myself.
BASS: Have you?
SOLOMON: Montreal and Kingston and Queenston and a great many places. And I have been in York state, too. Buffalo and Rochester and Albany, and can tell you the names of the villages on the Erie canal and the Champlain canal. Bass gives Solomon a long and curious stare.
BASS: Well traveled for a slave. How came you here?
SOLOMON: Master Bass, if justice had been done I never would have been here.
BASS: How's this? Tell me all about it.
SOLOMON: I am afraid to tell you, though I don't believe you would tell Master Epps if I should.
BASS: Every word you speak is a profound Solomon holds a moment. Hasn't he heard the same promise before? Prior to Solomon stating his case, WE FADE TO:
BASS: How many years all told?
SOLOMON: Just nearly.just passed eleven.
BASS: Your story is.it is amazing, and in no good way.
SOLOMON: Do you believe, sir, in justice as you have said?
BASS: I do.
SOLOMON: That slavery is an evil that should befall none?
BASS: I believe so.
SOLOMON: If you truly do, I would ask.I would beg that you write my friends in the north, acquainting them with my situation and beseeching them to forward free papers, or take such steps as they might consider proper to secure my Bass looks at Solomon, holding his gaze for more than a prolonged beat.
BASS: I have always forgone relationships and family. I did once have a sweetheart who I loved Bass points to a measuring tool, which Solomon immediately hands over.
OMIT: 163 OMIT 163 164 OMIT 164
SLOW DISSOLVE: To a now virtually complete, half-painted white gazebo. Slaves continue to work on it. As they do so, Bass peels away from the structure to have an overview. He beckons Solomon toward him, out of earshot from the slaves who are continuing to work on the gazebo. As Solomon approaches, Bass shouts-
BASS: And bring those markers! Solomon gathers a clutch of markers in his hands and approaches Bass.
SOLOMON: You are certain? Bass takes a marker from Solomon and slides it into the I have inquired thoroughly. More than is safe for either of us. Bass takes another and pokes it into the ground, improvising a pathway towards the gazebo.
BASS: I have inquired thoroughly. More than is safe for either of us. Bass takes another and pokes it into the ground, improvising a pathway towards the gazebo.
SOLOMON: Five months. On top of these years. No cause remains.
BASS: If there is any chance.
SOLOMON: Mr. Bass.
BASS: I will continue to write your
PEOPLE: Go home knowing you have tried. The weight of defeat should hang very heavily with both men. Nothing more to do, nothing more to say BASS TAKES
SOLOMON: Go home knowing you have tried. The weight of defeat should hang very heavily with both men. Nothing more to do, nothing more to say BASS TAKES
OMIT: 167 OMIT 167
SHERIFF: Platt.? Where is the boy called The Sheriff crosses to him.
SOLOMON: The Sheriff crosses to him.
SHERIFF: Your name is Platt, is it?
SOLOMON: Yes, sir. Pointing off to the distance.
SHERIFF: Do you know that man?
SOLOMON: Mr. Parker.?
SHERIFF: Say again?
SOLOMON: Mr. Parker? As he does, Epps makes his way over.
SHERIFF: That man received a letter compiling many accusations. You look me in the eye and on your life answer me truthfully: have you any other name than Platt?
SOLOMON: Solomon Northup is my name.
EPPS: Have you a family?
SHERIFF: Have you a family?
EPPS: What's all this?
SHERIFF: It's official business.
EPPS: My nigger, my business.
SHERIFF: Your business waits.
SOLOMON: I have a wife and two children.
SHERIFF: What were your children's names?
SOLOMON: Margaret and Alonzo.
SHERIFF: And your wife's name before her Anne Hampton. I am who I say. Solomon pushes past the sheriff. As Solomon moves toward Parker, his pace quickens with each step until his
SOLOMON: Anne Hampton. I am who I say. Solomon pushes past the sheriff. As Solomon moves toward Parker, his pace quickens with each step until his
EPPS: Nah. You will unhand 'em. Platt is my nigger!
PARKER: He is Solomon Northup.
EPPS: You say.
PARKER: He belongs to no man.
EPPS: You say! You come here, unfamiliar to me, and make claims.
SHERIFF: Not claims. I have no doubts. This is Solomon Northup, a resident of Saratoga Springs, NY.
EPPS: To hell with that! My nigger, and I'll fight you for 'em!
PARKER: As is your right. As it will be my pleasure to bankrupt you in the courts. Your decision. By this time, the slaves in the plantation have overcome their fear of penalty, and left their work and gathered in the yard as witnesses. They stand behind the cabin, out of sight of Epps. Mistress Epps also bears witness, standing on the veranda next to her house slave. Her face is of a strange mixed Epps looks to Solomon. Solomon icily, stoically holds his ground. He makes it quite clear in his countenance that nobody owns him. Sheriff, hand on his gun, is there to back Solomon up. Epps, with no other recourse than to
EPPS: You think this is the last you'll see of me, boy? It ain't.
PATSEY: Disregarding Parker, Solomon crosses over to Patsey. Under the circumstances, neither really knows how to engage. Finally, suddenly, Patsey throws her arms around Solomon and they embrace. Epps, now mounted on his horse, witness the encounter. Kicking the stirrups hard into the sides of the horse, he rides off furiously. Calling from the carriage, mindful of Epps:
PARKER: Solomon.if we know what's wise, we should depart. A moment longer Solomon and Patsey hold each other. They separate, Solomon heading back to the carriage. He and Parker alight. The Sheriff chides the horses and they
BLACK: A169 A169
A169 A169: EXT. NORTHUP HOUSE - DAY -MARCH, 1853- We now see Solomon in front of a door. A door we have seen before at the very beginning of our story. Solomon, aged significantly since then, stands nervously, swallowing, and adjusting his attire. He breaths in and holds his breath. He blows out and closes his eyes. A tear falls from his cheek, but this is not the way he wants his family to see him. He gathers himself, and looks to his right. There stands Mr. Parker. He places his hand on Solomon's shoulder. He says gently-
PARKER: Are you ready? Solomon swallows and nods.
SOLOMON: I apologize for my appearance. I have had a difficult time of things these past many years. Solomon looks among his family; trying to recall them as much as they look to see familiarity within him. To his
MARGARET: He is my husband.
SOLOMON: MARGARET'S HUSBAND
MARGARET'S HUSBAND: It is very good to meet you, sir.
SOLOMON: We have much acquainting to do. Margaret rises, she presents her bundle to her father.
MARGARET: And this is your grandson. Solomon Northup Staunton.
SOLOMON: The fact his grandson carries his name, is overwhelming. Solomon breaks down. Emotionally, physically. But ANNE IS THERE TO CATCH HIM. As she holds him, Solomon says to Anne with all his heart:
ANNE: There is nothing to forgive. The pair, joined now by the whole family, hold on to each other for life.and one would think for all the rest of their lives.
BLACK: Upon gaining his freedom, Solomon Northup located and attempted to seek legal justice against the men who kidnapped him. The case was tried in Washington, DC where blacks were prohibited by law from testifying
