127 HOURS: Written by Simon Beaufoy & Danny Boyle
ARON: Nearly missed it!
ARON: Hey. Are you doing the east pike? Can I come along with you for a The girls don't reply, just look at each other.
KRISTI: ( looking at Megan ) Sure, I'm Kristi.
MEGAN: Nice to meet you. What a day.
ARON: Nice to meet you. What a day.
KRISTI: It's beautiful.
ARON: Did you bike or come straight from the trail head?
KRISTI: We left the car there. Pretty I left mine at the Horseshoe Canyon and biked here.
ARON: I left mine at the Horseshoe Canyon and biked here.
MEGAN: You biked from Horseshoe? That's 20 miles or more.
ARON: 17 and windy. The girls exchange glances.
MEGAN: Yeah, you surprised us, sneaking up like that.
ARON: It's kind of nervy seeing a lone guy walking up to you in the middle of the desert.
MEGAN: It's kind of nervy seeing a lone guy walking up to you in the middle of the desert.
ARON: Yeah, I know, I mean there's no one around for 50 miles.
KRISTI: . and suddenly there's a guy right behind you and `wait a minute, why is he wearing a HOCKEY
MASK!': They all laugh.
ARON: Let me guess. You're here for the paintings or the Cathedral?
KRISTI: The Cathedral? We've got a bit disorientated and the map isn't great. Where is it?
ARON: The climb's a little tricky but it's worth it.
ARON: There's thousands of holds but you can't see them until you're almost upside down and then they just keep appearing. it's a bit of a act of faith so I'll go first. take off as much as you dare as there's a bit of a surprise at the other MEGAN ( O.S. ) You behave Aron Ralston or we'll tell your mother all about where you lure girls.
ARON: I swear I won't look but I swear you won't care when you get out We've been moving towards him as he rushes towards us, spider style. He's stripped to his underwear. He's lithe to say the least. We can't see the girls or what's underneath us but there's a feeling of the vertiginous, as much from the weird echo and the sense of reflected light as from the scale of the dome.
KRISTI: CUT TO:
OMG!: CUT TO:
MEGAN: Are you ok? ARON!
KRISTI: Of course he's ok. Listen to him. Aron fills the cathedral dome with his version of a Phish song at the top of his voice. Kristi strips to her underwear and traverses away from Megan.
MEGAN: We've got to go again. And film EXT. OUTSIDE THE CAVE. DAY ( LATER ). Eating and drying in the powerful afternoon sun. A little self consciousness has returned but it's sweet-natured and fun still...
MEGAN: I really can't eat all this chocolate by myself. Never mind, yes I can!
KRISTI: So have you got a girlfriend, Aron?
ARON: Well, there's not really anyone Ah, so there's lots of girlfriends.
MEGAN: Ah, so there's lots of girlfriends.
KRISTI: There's always a girl, you just don't know it yet.
MEGAN: Yeah, we meet lots of guys and there's always a girl.
ARON: Long story.
KRISTI: With lots of characters in it.
MEGAN: Wow, highest person in Colorado.
ARON: Well I figure no one else is mad enough to climb in the winter.
KRISTI: . you can be the highest person on the continent!
MEGAN: Didn't you see it?
ARON: What? No.
MEGAN: Yeah, it's an old cattle guardian's house - the roof's caved in and someone spray-painted MOTEL 6 on the side. Smelled weird though.
ARON: Just like a MOTEL 6 then?
KRISTI: Why are you on your own?
ARON: Solitude. Great tunes. Empty He indicates the wilderness.
MEGAN: Not those guys from.
KRISTI: Not those guys from.
ARON: Yeah, I know, I know.
ARON: I'm not certified yet but that's what I want to do.
MEGAN: An illegal instructor.
ARON: It's hard to get the hours to qualify. Catch 22.
KRISTI: Well, we'll sign your time-card Great. Now put your ass on my head.
ARON: Great. Now put your ass on my head.
KRISTI: Okay but don't look and no grabbing now, if I do.
MEGAN: Oh whatever, you love it.
KRISTI: Aron then quickly slips to the bottom. Megan is way high, Kristi half way.
ARON: ( at his most instructor- ish, talking all the time as he makes his way down ) You'll have to chimney down a little ways - like here, watch - one foot on each wall then squat onto your right heel, now your butt's on the wall, so you can move your right foot across, now put your left foot under your butt lower down and scootch your butt down - watch that black part, it's slick, slime, try not to get it on your shoes - if you can get to these bomber handholds here it's like an elevator shaft and just think friction to control the slide. This is a keeper so always have someone at the bottom to boost you out. He looks up to them.
MEGAN: I didn't understand any of that.
ARON: Why don't you come with me to the Big Drop Rappel? I can give you a lift back to your car.
KRISTI: How far is it? He shows them on the map.
ARON: About another 8 miles or so, I You'll never get out before dark.
MEGAN: You'll never get out before dark.
ARON: No, I really got to do this. Anyway I've my miner's lamp.
MEGAN: You don't climb at night, do you?
ARON: No, it's great for seeing snakes in hand holds. Can I get a picture They pose with raven feathers in their hair.
KRISTI: Yeah, we'd like that. What time?
MEGAN: Drive on the east road and about 40 miles out there's a huge inflatable Scooby Doo. You can't miss it. Turn off and it's about 2 miles down that track. Starts late and it'll go right thru. Lots of cheek kissing and his last picture of them.
ARON: Drive on the east road and about 40 miles out there's a huge inflatable Scooby Doo. You can't miss it. Turn off and it's about 2 miles down that track. Starts late and it'll go right thru. Lots of cheek kissing and his last picture of them.
KRISTI: Come on Aron, hike out with us - we'll go get your truck, hang out and have a beer.
ARON: No, I really got to do this.
KRISTI: Okay. Scooby Doo, yeah?
ARON: That's the one. I'll have 3 cold beers waiting for us.
MEGAN: 12 cold beers!
ARON: Easy Aron, easy now. He keeps moving, descending still, but a little more circumspect. He lets the change of pace allow him to whip round his pack and with the practice of thousands of times selects and plays a CD without stopping, slipping the headphones over his head.
CD RECORDING: Good evening Las Vegas. are you having a good time? Are you ready for PHISH! Whether we are or not, the first song begins on a wave of adoration from his fellow Phish fans. He sings along.
PHOTOTIME: He snaps the log now arching above him well out of reach.
ARON: Won't be coming back this way.
ARON: And across he steps onto it. It holds.
127HOURS: CUT TO:
ARON: FUCK, get your hand out of there! Pulls and pulls, yanks until his shoulder will dislocate, but nothing moves. Sweat, anxiety flaring, hot pain.
ARON: YEEARKGG. UNNNHHH Air exploding out of his lungs. And then a quiet hollow sound of the boulder shifting fractionally. A howl of phenomenal pain -
YEEARKGG. UNNNHHH: Air exploding out of his lungs. And then a quiet hollow sound of the boulder shifting fractionally. A howl of phenomenal pain -
ARON: FUCK! What the fuck? How the fuck did you get your hand trapped by a fucking boulder? Its crushed, it's fucking dying man! He reaches up and touches the trail of blood, hair and skin left on the canyon wall as the rock pushed him to where he is. Looks under boulder, no blood - check. [He hears the crowd cheering on his headphones. It's been playing throughout. He switches it off] He looks above for the first time.
HELP! HELLO!: CUT TO:
ARON: Not good. He blows the whole lot into our face with a mighty gust.
ARON: NO, NO! INT. CANYON FLOOR. DAY. The knife is visible in the crack below and behind his right leg but he can't twist to get anywhere near it. He tries to pull the canyon wall off balance to get closer. No chance.
NO, NO!: CUT TO:
ARON: He pulls off his right sock and shoe and tries to squeeze his foot into the hole. Too big. Size 10. He looks upward. He can't believe he's done it.
ARON: CUT TO: " SATURDAY NIGHT ":
MARK: Wow, look at the size of this one. There's no cliffs or mountains anywhere near. We look at Mark's pleasant, unremarkable face for far too long as he looks around -
ARON: He picks it off his arm and places it on top of the rock next to where he's working. It's a grain of sand on the seashore but it's something. Boy, his arm and his legs are aching now.
ARON: Lovely relief for him, light off, his eyes close.
RAVEN: CUT TO:
ARON: As he stretches his neck to follow the path of the only other living thing, he freezes stock still. The bird has gone. Nothing moves. Not him.. nothing. Time passes. He switches his light off.
RANA: OK - lights off and line up alongside me. They turn off their vehicles' headlights as she draws a long line in the sand and they join her standing on one side of On the other side of this line, everything will be different. As they all hold hands and together step cross the line ( Aron's keen and ever so slightly ahead of everyone across the line ) the sparkling lights of the crescent-shaped `town' of vehicles and camps that is Burning Man are replaced by an astonishing sunrise in the Nevada desert. They hoot and holler as Rana smiles beautifully at Aron.
ARON: It's three-oh-five on Sunday. This marks my twenty-four-hour mark of being stuck in Blue John Canyon above the Big Drop. My name is Aron Ralston. My parents are Donna and Larry Ralston of Englewood, Colorado. Whoever finds this, please make an attempt to get this to them. Be sure of it. I would appreciate it. He takes long blinks and seems to avoid looking at himself though the screen is facing him. He looks alarmed and wide eyed, startled, in contrast to his slow slurred delivery.
ARON: What you're looking at there is my arm, going into the rock. and there it is, stuck. It's been without circulation for 24 hours.
ARON: So the way I see it. there's kind of four things happening here. I tried to move it with some rigging. useless. and I tried chipping away at the rock. I think part of the problem is, is that my hand is actually supporting the rock. Which means every time I chip away the rock moves a bit and settles onto my hand again. I can't feel it happening but microscopically, it seems to be, because the little gap over there between the rock and the wall seems to be getting smaller. And this chockstone is the hardest thing INT. WIDE. MOVING THROUGH CANYON. REALTIME. A breeze slides through the canyon and he shudders involuntarily for five seconds.
ARON: So the third thing left was to cut my arm off.
PAUSE: ARON ( CONT'D )
ARON: ( SCREAMING ) CUT TO:
HEEELLLPP!!!: Freaky. We just see an arbitrary view of the rock and sky on the video camera, maybe with a bit of elbow, but we hear his desperation, screaming at no one, distorting on the tiny INT. CANYON. DAY. REALTIME. He stops it. The sound of his absolute helplessness and need freaks him out and threatens absolute despair. Snorts.
ARON: No one's coming Aron. He rewinds to the end of the message and erases his futile calls for help.
ARON: God, I am praying to you for guidance. I'm trapped in Blue John Canyon - you probably know that - and I don't know what I am supposed to do. I've tried everything I can think of. I need some new ideas. Please show me a sign. PAUSE - Just his breath. He switches on the head lamp and the inside of the bag explodes with light. There's enough light for any kind of heaven but it's just Aron in Blue John Canyon. He looks around his bag. He stops. Silence. Only his breathing to listen to. Heart rate. fast. too fast. Light off.
Q: What you doin'?
ARON: Still not sure. I'll see you Have a good one.
Q: Have a good one.
ARON: Always do.
GIRL: That was your Mom! And your Dad called. Call him. We're going. See you next week. Oh, and Rana INT. CANYON FLOOR. PRE DAWN. He is absolutely still. Almost absent. Flies buzz around him. Indeterminate time passes.
ARON: It's freaking me out looking at myself so I hope you guys are OK with this
PAUSE: CUT TO:
ARON: It's Monday - all day - bummer. I spent the morning trying to create a 6:1 system ration and lift the boulder but friction between the rope and carabiners is dissipating every bit of force I apply.
ARON: There's a raven flies overhead, I clocked it at 8.15. I'll bet it's there tomorrow too. I'll film it for you tomorrow
ARON: I have about one hundred and fifty millilitres of water left. That's four ounces. I can't believe it but I peed twice today, within a few minutes of each other. How is this possible? It's two days since I peed, I'm dehydrated and I had to go so quickly I forgot to save the first. I saved the second in the CamelBak. Will I drink it? It smells foul, and hot but it'll settle. And I can chill it in the sand in the night. It's like Polar winter here for nine hours.
ARON: No number twos. Which will disappoint my insect friends. They're gonna have to wait. The sunlight appears down here for a few hours. I get 15 minutes of it at 9.35. and apart from chipping away uselessly at this rock that's pretty much my morning routine.
ARON: I keep chipping at the rock but just to generate warmth and give me something to do. I think it's making it worse. I know it's settling more on my arm as I remove material from it. The area where I chipped flakes off yesterday has already rotated down onto my arm. PAUSE. I can't feel anything. PAUSE. So I made a great tourniquet and I tried to cut it We see him pull the elastic neoprene tubing insulation from the CamelBak. It's stretchy, supple and strong and emerges like a thin snake. It's perfect. He wraps the black neoprene around his right forearm 2 inches below his elbow. Simple overhand knot tightened with his teeth. 2nd knot, 3rd knot, clips the neoprene with a carabiner and twists 6 times Now real pain in his right arm. Weird smile at the success. The skin colour separates; fish belly white below the tourniquet and bright red bunched up crushes of flesh between the elbow and the tourniquet.
ARON: Now real pain in his right arm. Weird smile at the success. The skin colour separates; fish belly white below the tourniquet and bright red bunched up crushes of flesh between the elbow and the tourniquet.
OWWWWW: Now real pain in his right arm. Weird smile at the success. The skin colour separates; fish belly white below the tourniquet and bright red bunched up crushes of flesh between the elbow and the tourniquet.
ARON: The blades are too blunt even to break the skin. I guess that's the chipping. It's not even a proper Leatherman. It's a knock-off one we got free in a gift pack with a torch. Mom gave it to me.
ARON: I've been thinking about what my friend Rob in Aspen says to me several. frequently.. Several times that, confusingly, 'It's not what you do but who you I kind of got hung up on that a lot, because I always thought who I was, was very much wrapped up with what I did. That I was happy because of the things that I did that made me happy. If things you do make you happy, then they can also make you unhappy. I think that's why I found myself being as ambitious and energetic - The wind interrupts him and he shivers.
PAUSE: ARON ( CONT'D )
SENTENCE ): " - to do all the outings that I did". PAUSE. As he loses track of what he's saying and then catches up, the canyon has become noticeably darker. He's oblivious.
ARON: No. No. Don't. He sees the moisture on the inside of the bag, condensation. He licks it with his sticky tongue, twice, three times. He looks back at the LCD screen.
ARON: See you later. . swallows quickly 2 'spoons' of urine without disturbing the sediment. Tangy and bitter, the saltiness makes him INT. ARON'S TRUCK. DUSK. We're in his truck again but this time over his shoulder and we can see the Scooby Doo Figure dancing in the distance. It's now lit up too, as night is falling, and we're coming at it from the other direction. As he gets to it he swerves and follows its guide to the party.
ARON: ( furious at himself ) Fuck a nut, Aron. Pay fucking attention - look what you did? He stares at the stain - with all the dirt on his shorts it's already paste. He screws the lid on slowly and can barely be bothered to lift his lens into his mouth.
ARON: Good morning everyone! It's 6:45 Tuesday morning in BJ Canyon. The weather is great! I figure by now that Leona, my housemate - Hi Leona! - has missed me hopefully since I didn't show up last night. Another hour and a half they'll miss me for not showing up for work. Hi Brion at work! Best case scenario is they notify the police and after a 24 hour hold they file a report, a missing persons report. Which means noon tomorrow it's official that I'm gone. I do still have the tiniest bit of water left. Well, actually, I've resorted.I've had a couple pretty good gulps of urine that I saved in my Camelbak. I sorta let it distill.it tastes like hell. So it's 70 hours since I left on my bike from Horseshoe Trailhead during which time I have consumed 3 liters of water and a couple mouthfuls of piss. Did I say the weather is great? Well, it is. Though flash floods potential is still present. There's 4-prong major canyons upstream from me that all converge in this 3 foot wide gap where I am. The rock I pulled down on top of me, it was put there by flood.
PAUSE: Still, I'd get a drink. He shudders, it's ridiculous. Then composes himself during a long blink and looks straight at the camera.
ARON: Ready for lift-off. He bounces his full weight in the stirrups and pulls on the haul line. It looks a better set up.
ARON: Whoa, that's the bone. He pulls the knife out opening the wound more. There's barely any blood. He pokes at the gash with the tool.
VIDEO FOOTAGE: ARON ( CONT'D )
PAUSE: I'm really fucked now. I'm out of INT. CANYON. DAY. Stops the video and rips a section of his t-shirt to make an impromptu bandage to cover the wound. As he ties it with his teeth there's a rush of someone else's noise: the swat of wings. He grabs the camera just in time to catch the very end of the raven's flight 70 ft above his head.
ARON: Shit missed it. 8:31AM. He's late and I still missed it. We can hear his heart racing. He holds his left hand to it hoping to calm it down.
SHUDDERING SO: VIOLENTLY WITH
VIOLENTLY WITH: Temperature 57 - shivers, like 56 - 55 ( huge a fit teeth Figures ) chattering,
RACKING HIS: A figure starts body with a a small fire to furious comfort Aron. vengeance. Perfect for bacon and beans. He pisses again 02.02=>03.03=>04.04 ARON: Huge luminous figures on There's the "I can't believe the inside of the black interior Scooby this." bag. Doo waving at a decants the table in front sediment out of V.O: There you are of it piled to Camelbak. The creaking point stench of the with margaritas sediment makes the excess runs him retch and jerk down the table away. Where is all legs. This coming from?
BURRITO WASHED: Did that make sense? down with a swig of urine, He switches off and applies winces and lip balm. swallows somehow. ARON: He looks at it and bites a `That's it. bit off. Masticates it on I'm on the and on. Chewing. urine diet now. Well, The chockstone it's no waits and Aron's slurpee.' foot kicks and then lands and they fall together. The raven flies. => The accident runs in Aron watches reverse the raven
ARON CHIPPING: away desultory A slit of light in blackness Aron licks A light switch flicks on and moisture thin metal shelves full of condensation cleaning supplies appear He takes shots from inside the on 3 sides, industrial mop, of himself bag. His head- Aron in his canyon gear, with his still
HIS HEAD: TURNS ALWAYS CUT TO:
TURNS ALWAYS: Rana's face is remaining in huge on the inside the light.An of his head bag, smiling accelerating at him. Her face in huge carousel of scale compared to his head. yellow ALL THE SCREENS GO BLACK. INT. ROPE BAG. BLACK. Breathing close but shallow and rasping.
ARON: God, it's Aron again. I still need some help. It's getting bad here. I'm out of water and food. Listen. Give me the strength not to do anything against myself. I want to see this through, whatever. A rumbling thunderous sound grows and the inside of the bag begins to bear the image of the top of the canyon at dawn but crumpled like paper, creased like the bag [BUT STRETCHED ACROSS 2 SCREENS]. The noise grows and grows.
ARON: Out of date. May Day. Not dead. He smirks. 8:15 Waits for the raven. No sign
ARON: No raven today. Everything's fucked. Sonja. if you still want me to play at your wedding. there's a tape in a box in the basement of Mom and Dad's Lounge. It's me 1993 or 1994. We hear the music. Mozart, Beethoven, Bach, Chopin - he can hear it as he played it until.
VOICE: I did this Aron. I created this. The boulder did what it was here to do. It was waiting for me but it did the only natural thing it could do. I chose to come here, I chose to do this descent by myself. I chose not to tell anyone where I was going. I chose to turn away from the women who were there to keep me from getting in this trouble. I wanted it to be like this. Look how far I came to find this spot. It's not that I'm getting what I deserve - I'm getting what I He's empty now. He clicks the camera shut and puts it away. That's over.
ARON: I hate this rock. The rage blooms purple in his mind.
POW: Like a gunshot in the canyon, the bone breaks. The sound ricochets. He rises and sees the bone pushing up violently against the skin. He feels it. It's a serrated, but clean, successful break. Still he says nothing. Now he humps his body up and over the chockstone, smearing his feet, one with a shoe, one without, against the wall, he pushes grabbing further and further round the dark side of the chockstone, pulling with a silent, furious intensity. Hard, then harder, and HARDER.
BANG: A second gun shot smashes around the canyon. He's sweating heavily and yet euphoric, possessed. He checks the underneath of the arm. It's broken too. Around the same place. He can rotate his forearm like a shaft inside a housing. Giving himself no time to wake up he grabs the knife, looks at the watch-
ARON: Ok Aron, here we go. You're in it He pushes the knife hard, to the hilt, in between 2 veins on his wrist. Fuck knows where the sweat is coming from but it's pouring out of him. Sawing downwards he makes as large a hole as he can without tearing any of the noodle like veins. He puts the knife in his teeth and pokes his left forefinger and thumb inside his right arm. Like a mechanic he looks to analyse and then he works by feel His sweat falls on his knife mixing with the blood. He pulls muscle nearer the surface allowing his knife to slice and pare away at a pinky 'finger-sized' fragment bit by bit. It takes a dozen actions, each time the knife goes back to his teeth. Sort. Pinch. Rotate. Slice. There's not a lot of blood. But he keeps working and working. Once the blood increases he puts the knife down on top of the rock and swiftly ties his tourniquet. He's silent, refusing to verbalize the pain.
ARON: He explodes internally with vocal pain, through gritted teeth. The first time he has made any sound during the surgery. But it's like he's been taser-ed, he's stunned still for a minute
AAAAARRRRRGGGGHHHH!: He explodes internally with vocal pain, through gritted teeth. The first time he has made any sound during the surgery. But it's like he's been taser-ed, he's stunned still for a minute
ARON: ( spitting out this declaration at the rock )
ARON: And the figures turn. There's a terrible pause of uncertainty on both sides and then he pushes out another heartbreaking -
HELP!: And the figures turn. There's a terrible pause of uncertainty on both sides and then he pushes out another heartbreaking -
ERIK: We are the Mejers from Holland. At the start of the trailhead we talked to a ranger who told us about a car that was parked in the area already for several days and that the owner might be missing in the canyon. We joked that we would keep our eyes open and that we would try to find him. After a hike of 5.3 kilometres to the Great Gallery ( Indian rock art ) where we took some pictures, we returned and suddenly heard a noise behind us, and after that a voice that cried "Help, I need help". Monique and I immediately realized that this had to be the missing We didn't find him, he found us! We gave him our water and Oreos.
ERIK: We are the Mejers from Holland. You should stop and rest.
ARON: No, we need to keep hiking. We need a helicopter - who can run fastest?- You, go now fast. Take Monique runs ahead with Andy, her son.
ERIK: They told us you were here.
ARON: Who? Who told you?
ERIK: The police at the parking lot
ARON: Do you have a phone?
ERIK: There's no signal for miles. Nobody for 6 days and then like London buses another couple appears. They too are confronted by:
ARON: Do you have a cell phone?
WAYNE: No. I'm Wayne. I have some medical Is it ok for me to drink so much Sure so long as it doesn't make you Aron drinks more and more, he overhears.
ARON: Is it ok for me to drink so much Sure so long as it doesn't make you Aron drinks more and more, he overhears.
WAYNE: Sure so long as it doesn't make you Aron drinks more and more, he overhears.
ARON: I gotta stop and empty my shoes. You'll have to tie my shoe lace. As he sits his head slumps forward. He's absolutely motionless. Wayne and Erik try to talk to him but he can barely hear them. A pop song spins round and round distantly. He strains to pull his head up, and, staring, drops forward to his knees. There it is. Filling his vision like a god. Whirling screaming in front of him, dust blasting him as he kneels. A HELICOPTER.
PILOT: Are you Aron?
ARON: Yes I am. Can I get a lift?
ARON: I'm gonna make a terrible mess of your seat.
PILOT: Just get in buddy. We're all looking for you. The helicopter sucks upwards into the sky leaving Wayne, Monique, Andy and Erik far below.
ARON: Thank you for bringing me back. The most senior of the burly men says,
BURLY MAN: That's all your miracle days used up kid. You need to rest. You can stand everyone a beer later. Aron is greeted by medics. Needles. Care. Machines. Tubes.
ARON: Will you look after this for me He opens his fist and there is the small folded up knife.
ARON: My boy. My only one. There you are. She strokes his head so gently.
MOM: My boy. My only one. There you are. She strokes his head so gently.
ARON: Hey Mom.
MOM: How are you feeling?
ARON: OK. Are you okay.
MOM: You've been asleep for 2 days. We are so lucky. She's a decent woman and a devoted mum. She looks weary, worn out with worry and love for her boy.
ARON: Mom, I'm sorry I scared you. Very soft voice ( again ) - Aron hears the same words as he drifts back into drugged rest.
SOUND ): Flash of celebrity. His first press conference. And boy, is there a lot of press there!
RANA: OK - he's got 3 vegetarian hotdogs and the tickets and he'll be outside Gate 6 in 5.
ARON: So are you guys ok with me?
RANA: Yeah. We split up a while back when you were in hospital.
ARON: Christine told me.
RANA: ( always to the point ) Is that what this is about?
ARON: She laughs at him.
RANA: What about the climbing? Aron reaches in his bag and pulls out his scary looking prosthetic arm / axe. He clinks the points together. She doesn't laugh, maybe a smile.
ARON: I'm gonna finish the 49ers this winter or next.
RANA: ( to change it ) Well, all I can't figure out is what took you so long to cut it off and get one of these. They both laugh. But he also answers.
ARON: Rana, before I did it I was hallucinating, I saw this child, a little blond boy -
RANA: ( over her glasses ) Not Jesus please.
ARON: No, he looked like my cousin Charlie but way too young. and I didn't know why but I knew he was mine and that this was what lay in front of me. He looks at her. She doesn't say anything.
RANA: No Aron, it's not.
ARON: ( HE KNOWS )
RANA: You know, everyone who cares for you, a little bit of them dies each time you go back. Before he can work out how to answer she breaks the door Let's go hero. If they do The Fly first and we miss it we'll never be EXT. CONCERT. NIGHT. The concert explode into life.
THE END: Writers : Simon Beaufoy Danny Boyle
