CAB DRIVER: Where to?
WELLES: Follow that limousine. Don't get too close, don't let it get too far away. Just keep with it.
CAB DRIVER: You kidding?
WELLES: The cab set in motion. Welles takes out cigarettes, lighting one, takes out a small NOTEPAD and makes notations.
CAB DRIVER: Uh, listen. you're not supposed to be smoking in here. I'm sorry, that's company policy.
WELLES: How about this. every cigarette I smoke, I give you five dollars?
CAB DRIVER: Okay. okay, yeah, that'd be good.
OLDER WOMAN: Thank you.
AMY: Welcome home.
WELLES: Do you know how much I missed you?
AMY: What's this. have you been smoking. ?
WELLES: Smoking? I'm not smoking.
AMY: Your clothing reeks of it.
WELLES: You know, Amy, I've been sitting around in bars and everywhere following this guy. I mean, is this what I get first thing? Before you even "hello," you accuse me. ?
AMY: I'm not accusing you.
WELLES: Well, I'm not smoking, okay?
AMY: Okay, I believe you.
WELLES: We've been all through that. I've been on my best behavior.
WELLES: Hello, pumpkin-head, did you miss me? I sure missed you.
WELLES: Let's get my bags and get the hell out of here.
AMY: How's the detective business?
WELLES: Business was fine. I'll tell you what, you couldn't pay me enough to live down there.
AMY: You better not be smoking, that's all I can say.
WELLES: Honey, I'm not, please.
AMY: I love you.
WELLES: I love you.
WELLES: What's all the trouble, Cinderella? What are you crying about, huh?
WELLES: Your son-in-law dealt with the dry cleaning franchise during the day, saw that woman every night. The specifics are in the report, and information about the woman. It's unpleasant, I know. I apologize.
POLITICIAN: None too discreet, is he?
WELLES: No, sir, he is not.
POLITICIAN: He's an imbecile. I tried to warn my daughter, but what can you do?
WELLES: The um. you'll find my invoice in the envelope. If that's all.
POLITICIAN: Yes, Mister Welles, thank you.
WELLES: Certainly, Senator. If I can ever be of further assistance.
AMY: You think you'll have time for the water heater this weekend?
WELLES: Sure. I'll call the guy.
AMY: You're not using the same guy who tried to fix it?
WELLES: I'm not using him again for anything. He was worthless. You have bridge here Saturday?
AMY: Betty's out of town so we're playing next week.
WELLES: ( into PHONE ) Hello. Yes. could you hold on a
WELLES: ( shouts upstairs ) Okay, I've got it. ( into phone ) Hello. sorry, I was switching phones. It's a pleasure to make your acquaintance, Mrs. Christian. ( listens ) Yes. Yes, I understand. tomorrow evening should be fine.
MRS CHRISTIAN: Mister Welles. You're very prompt.
WELLES: I try to be.
MRS CHRISTIAN: I appreciate your coming on such short notice.
MRS CHRISTIAN: This is Mister Longdale, my late husband's attorney.
WELLES: Uh huh, pleasure.
MRS CHRISTIAN: Apparently Mr. Longdale has something he feels he simply must say before you and I speak.
LONGDALE: Yes, I do have something to say. I insisted on being here as soon as I heard Mrs. Christian contacted you.
WELLES: I'm listening.
LONGDALE: As Mr. Christian's attorney and one of the executors of his estate, it concerns me that a meeting of this sort should take place without my being asked to attend.
WELLES: Of what sort?
LONGDALE: You are a private investigator?
WELLES: That's right.
LONGDALE: Well, whatever reasons Mrs. Christian has for engaging the services of a private investigator, I should certainly be a party to. But, since she feels differently, I can only go on the record as having expressed my adamant disapproval.
MRS CHRISTIAN: Yes, how theatrical. So you've gone on the record, and now perhaps you should just be gone.
MRS CHRISTIAN: Have a pleasant evening. Will you have tea, Mister Welles?
WELLES: Thank you.
WELLES: He's odd.
MRS CHRISTIAN: He's a lawyer. Please, sit, here.
MRS CHRISTIAN: I've spoken to friends of mine and my husband's, in Harrisburg, in Lancaster and Hershey. Asking about you. I must say you have friends in influential places.
WELLES: I've been privileged to provide services for people I admire.
MRS CHRISTIAN: You are highly recommended. Praised for your discretion. your strict adherence to confidentiality.
MRS CHRISTIAN: As you know, my husband passed away recently. Two weeks ago now.
WELLES: My condolences.
MRS CHRISTIAN: His passing has left me with. something of a dilemma. A terrible, terrible dilemma.
WELLES: I'll do whatever I can to help.
MRS CHRISTIAN: His inner sanctum.
MRS CHRISTIAN: Not many people have been inside this room.
WELLES: MRS CHRISTIAN ( looks up at portrait )
MRS CHRISTIAN: Mostly. That's where he started his empire building. He was a good man. Notorious as an eccentric, but that was something he cultivated. He wanted to be He succeeded.
WELLES: He succeeded.
MRS CHRISTIAN: We were married forty-five years. Hard even for me to imagine. We had our troubles. There were plenty of places for him to be other than here, but he was always loyal to me, and I to him. I loved him deeply.
MRS CHRISTIAN: Do you carry a gun, Mr. Welles?
WELLES: I wear a gun when I can tell a client expects me to. Other than that, there's never any reason.
MRS CHRISTIAN: Just curious.
MRS CHRISTIAN: My husband was the only one with the combination to this safe. I knew about it, but as far as I was concerned it was none of my business. Not till now, that is.
WELLES: You hired someone to open it. I'll bet the lawyer loved that.
MRS CHRISTIAN: There was nothing he could do. My husband left everything to me. I prevented anyone from seeing the contents. I felt these were my husband's private things. I didn't. I didn't realize.
WELLES: Do you want to tell me what you Cash, stock certificates, and this.
MRS CHRISTIAN: Cash, stock certificates, and this.
MRS CHRISTIAN: It's a film. of a girl being I'm afraid I don't.
WELLES: I'm afraid I don't.
MRS CHRISTIAN: This is a movie showing a girl being murdered. She's sitting on a bed, and a man rapes her. and he begins to cut her with a knife. I only watched what I could.
MRS CHRISTIAN: I didn't know what to think. I can't tell you how horrible it's been, to know this belonged to my husband. To know that he watched this. this atrocity. But, I can't go to the police.
WELLES: Mrs. Christian. please, will you sit down a moment? I want you to listen carefully. What you're talking about is a "snuff film." But, from what I know, snuff films are a kind of. urban myth. Like, red light district folklore. There's no such thing, I can assure you.
WELLES: Please, believe me. This is probably a stag film. Simulated rape. Hard to stomach, and it might seem real, but there are ways of making it look realistic. fake blood and special effects.
MRS CHRISTIAN: If you were to study it you'd see the camera cutting away. you'd see the tricks they can play.
WELLES: If you were to study it you'd see the camera cutting away. you'd see the tricks they can play.
MRS CHRISTIAN: I'm telling you it's not that.
WELLES: I'm sure it is. It's probably something your husband was given as a bad joke. More than likely he never even watched it.
MRS CHRISTIAN: Will you watch it and see for Of course. But, I'm certain it's nothing to worry about.
WELLES: Of course. But, I'm certain it's nothing to worry about.
WELLES: You. you need to go to the police.
MRS CHRISTIAN: I told you I can't, not yet.
WELLES: You don't have any other choice.
MRS CHRISTIAN: ( stands, shakes her head ) No. For me to live with the ruin of my husband's name, I need know that whoever did this will be punished. If you can find them, I will take their names to the police. I'll say my husband confessed on his death bed. I'll say I didn't have courage to come forward at first.
WELLES: It won't work like that.
MRS CHRISTIAN: Any evidence you collect can be given to the police later, anonymously. I've thought about it and there's no other way. If you can't find them. if the only thing that comes from this film is that this is all my husband will be remembered for, well I can't let that happen. I'm telling you I won't. If there's no chance that poor girl's memory can be served, then I'll just have to spend my last days trying to forget her.
WELLES: I deal in divorce cases. Corporate You've found missing persons before.
MRS CHRISTIAN: You've found missing persons before.
WELLES: Nothing remotely like this.
MRS CHRISTIAN: I know what I'm asking. Your compensation will be appropriate to the risk. You'll need cash to buy information, and I'll provide it. I feel responsible, Mr. Welles. You saw what he did to her.
WELLES: This is the mortgage. This is Cindy's college money.
AMY: I understand.
WELLES: Sometimes you can't know what I'm doing. It's better that way.
AMY: I know.
WELLES: It's a missing persons case. a long shot. I'll give it two months, two months at most, then I'll be back. We'll take a vacation.
AMY: Why the gun?
WELLES: I'm not gonna need it. I won't even wear it. It's a precaution. Don't worry about me.
WELLES: ( into phone ) Hello, honey, it's me. ( listens ) I'm fine, how are you?
DIRECTOR: What can I do for you, Mr. Welles?
WELLES: Call me Tom.
DIRECTOR: Alright, Tom.
WELLES: What I'd like, very simply, is access to your archive. And, now I understand this isn't something you normally do for private citizens.
DIRECTOR: There are reasons for the way we do things here.
WELLES: Absolutely. Of course I'll abide by whatever decision you make, but I'd appreciate if you'll hear me out.
WELLES: Few days ago, I was contacted by a couple living in Philadelphia, a doctor and his wife. What happened was they picked up a young girl hitchhiking off 81, which heads into Philadelphia, started up a conversation with this girl, she looked homeless, seemed about eighteen maybe. They convinced her to let them buy her a meal in the city. Nice kid, mature, didn't have much to say, but they got a sense she's a runaway, so all through dinner the doctor's working on her, trying to convince her that at the very least she should pick up a telephone. Not surprisingly, she ate her food, excused herself. That's the last they saw her. The reason they came to me for help, the reason I'm coming to you, is we had a friend of mine in the department work up a sketch. They want to see if I can I.D. this girl, somehow pass along a message to let the parents know the kid's alive, doing alright.
DIRECTOR: Why not go to the N.C.I.C. or
N.C.M.E.C.?: I figured you share information.
WELLES: I figured you share information.
DIRECTOR: We do.
WELLES: For whatever reasons I thought you might be more receptive.
DIRECTOR: Why don't they come to me?
WELLES: This doctor and wife, they're nice people, but they don't want to get too involved. They're not trying to have the parents come looking for the girl either. You and I both know sometimes, not often, but sometimes there's real reasons why a kid'll run. Molestation, whatever. Besides that, the girl's probably eighteen, so she's legal.
DIRECTOR: I'm not so sure about this.
WELLES: They're putting themselves in place of this kid's parents and thinking they'd want to hear their girl's okay, even if that's all they hear.
DIRECTOR: I can give you my card, if your clients want to call me.
WELLES: They were pretty clear they didn't want this coming back on them.
DIRECTOR: Well, that's all I can do. Sorry.
WELLES: Who knows. maybe she's already given her parents a call, right?
WELLES: He tears the card in half and drops it as he heads for his car. After a moment, the director comes out after him.
DIRECTOR: Excuse me. Tom, hold on.
DIRECTOR: Listen, maybe I can help after all. Why don't you come on back in. we'll see what we can do.
DIRECTOR: This is it. It's not much. We've got less than five percent on computer and we lose that funding in December. I'll have someone show it to you anyway. Other than that, I'm afraid it's the wet thumb method.
DIRECTOR: Files are mostly by state and year of disappearance. We try to keep the children and adults separate. No eating or smoking in here, but there's a coffee machine in the hall.
WELLES: Any good?
DIRECTOR: It's horrible, but it'll be your best friend after a few days. I hope you realize what kind of long shot you're chasing after.
WELLES: You're gonna be seeing a lot of me. You're sure you don't mind?
DIRECTOR: It's good what you're doing.
WELLES: ( into PHONE ) Hello, Mrs. Christian? Tom Welles. Here's where we stand. I checked the film stock and it's called Supra- lux 544. The company that made that stock discontinued it in '92. ( listens ) Yeah, about five or six years ago. Anyway, do what you can to dig up your husband's old financial records, look for anything out of the ordinary.
MRS MATHEWS: Yes. ?
WELLES: ( smiles ) Hello, Mrs. Mathews, my name's Thomas Jones, I'm a state licensed
WELLES: I've been hired as an independent contractor by the U.S. Resource Center for Missing Persons as part of an internal audit. If you have any time over the next few days, I'd like to make an appointment to ask some questions about the disappearance of your daughter.
MRS MATHEWS: I don't understand, who are. ?
WELLES: I'm sorry, let me explain, the R.C.M.P. is a support organization and archive, not unlike the Center for Missing and Exploited Children in Washington. I'm sure you've dealt with them before?
MRS MATHEWS: Yes, but.
WELLES: These volunteer organizations are sort of interconnected, functioning hand in hand with law enforcement. The R.C.M.P. brought me in to review their investigations. . fact-check their records, see if there's anything they missed, anything they should be doing different. I'm here for a few days, before I head back up to Virginia. These reports go to the Justice Department eventually. I spoke to your F.B.I. contact a few days ago,
WELLES: What was the name. ? I've got it here somewhere.
MRS MATHEWS: Neil. Neil Cole.
WELLES: ( pretends he found it ) Right, Agent Cole told me he'd call and let you know to expect me. He didn't call?
MRS MATHEWS: ( looking on legal pad ) Well, I'm following up on your daughter, Mary, height; five four, weight; hundred ten pounds, brown eyes, blonde hair. Born April 24, 1976. Missing June 11th, 1992. A runaway, that's how she's listed. Is this information correct. ?
WELLES: ( looking on legal pad ) Well, I'm following up on your daughter, Mary, height; five four, weight; hundred ten pounds, brown eyes, blonde hair. Born April 24, 1976. Missing June 11th, 1992. A runaway, that's how she's listed. Is this information correct. ?
WELLES: I'm sorry, I know this isn't easy. Is there a more convenient time. ? Can I buy you lunch, would that be
WELLES: It's very important you don't let this raise your expectations. It's not going to effect any ongoing efforts. All I'm saying is, please know, I'm not here to create any false hope.
MRS MATHEWS: They hired you. You're like, a private detective?
WELLES: That's exactly what I am.
MRS MATHEWS: I didn't think there were private detectives anymore, except on TV.
WELLES: You probably expect me to be wearing a trench coat and a hat. Drinking whiskey, chasing women and getting beaten up by guys with broken noses. Want to know what it's really like? It's sitting in a car and staring at a hotel window for three days straight, pissing in a plastic bottle, pardon me, because some guy thinks his wife's cheating on him. Glamorous, huh? And the guy who hired you, he has a hair-lip, dandruff and crooked teeth, and you could have told him the minute you laid eyes on him his wife's cheating, and you don't blame her.
WELLES: It's refreshing to actually sit down and meet someone face to face, someone nice like you.
WELLES: So, she didn't leave a note? She never gave any indication where she might go, before she left?
MRS MATHEWS: She just seemed. depressed. ?
WELLES: She just seemed. depressed. ?
MRS MATHEWS: She didn't seem herself. For months there never was any way to get her to talk about it. One night we went to bed. the next morning she was gone. She took some clothes.
WELLES: What was she running from?
MRS MATHEWS: I don't know.
WELLES: If there's anything you feel uncomfortable talking about, tell me, but I have to ask. Your husband. he committed suicide?
MRS MATHEWS: September 4th, 1993. About a year after Mary disappeared.
WELLES: September 4th, 1993. About a year after Mary disappeared.
MRS MATHEWS: We were divorced by then. Things fell apart. he was living with a Why do you think he did it?
WELLES: Why do you think he did it?
MRS MATHEWS: It got to be too much for him.
WELLES: You have to forgive me, but in these circumstances. with your Were there any indications of. any sort of abuse?
MRS MATHEWS: There wasn't anything like that. The police and the FBI people asked, but there wasn't anything happened like that, never. My husband. his heart broke when Mary left.
WELLES: I didn't mean to.
MRS MATHEWS: You try going through what we did. Bob couldn't take it, that's all. Christ, there's times when it still seems like I can't either.
WELLES: I had to ask. I apologize.
MRS MATHEWS: No one knows what it's like. You can't even imagine how much it hurts.
MRS MATHEWS: People remember me from the news. Can you drive me back now?
WELLES: Of course.
MRS MATHEWS: This is her room.
MRS MATHEWS: The police made a wreck of it, but I put it back exactly how it was. Just how she likes it.
MRS MATHEWS: Those are for her birthday. One for every year she's missed. They'll be waiting for her when she comes back.
WELLES: I. I shouldn't take anymore of your time. Maybe we can finish tomorrow. I'll call tomorrow.
MRS MATHEWS: EXT. MATHEWS HOUSE DAY Welles escapes to his car, climbing in. He starts it up.
WELLES: ( into phone ) You should be able to take a shower and still have hot water left, honey. ( listens ) Call him back and tell him I said so. The goddamn thing's still under ( listens ) I'm okay. It's hard here. It's ( listens ) I've got a lead I have to follow through. To be honest, I don't think I'm going to get very far. I miss you. I love you.
MRS MATHEWS: We weren't religious. We never forced religion down her throat, like I've seen some parents do to their kids. We never made her go to church. But, after Mary was gone, that's when I got religious.
MRS MATHEWS: Doesn't make much sense, does it? When everything's happy, when life's fine and you have every reason to believe there's a God, you don't bother. Then, something horrible happens. that's when you start praying all the time. That's when you start going to church.
WELLES: We're all like that.
MRS MATHEWS: Are you religious?
WELLES: MRS MATHEWS
MRS MATHEWS: You should be.
WELLES: I've got what I need for my report. There is. there is one thing that bothers me though.
MRS MATHEWS: It's not really my place, but it's not easy for me to set aside the private detective part of me either. See, I know a little about missing persons. When kids run, they almost always leave a note. It's guilt. They want to say goodbye.
WELLES: It's not really my place, but it's not easy for me to set aside the private detective part of me either. See, I know a little about missing persons. When kids run, they almost always leave a note. It's guilt. They want to say goodbye.
MRS MATHEWS: There wasn't one. The police looked.
WELLES: Do you think the police did a good I don't know. I think so.
MRS MATHEWS: I don't know. I think so.
WELLES: It is possible. and I know this isn't something you want to hear. Your daughter may have tried to hide a note where she thought you would eventually find it, but where she knew your husband would never find it. She might have wanted to tell you something.
MRS MATHEWS: No. You don't have any reason to think that.
WELLES: If the police focused their search in her room, her belongings, well that'd be only natural, but they may have been looking in the wrong place.
MRS MATHEWS: How. how can you say that to me.?
WELLES: Will you let me look?
MRS MATHEWS: My husband never laid a hand on her. She would have told me. she would have told me.
WELLES: You're probably right, and I probably won't find anything. I don't have a right to ask this, and you can kick me out of your house if you want, but this is my profession and there's a part of me that can't let it go. Police are just as human as you or I. They could have missed something. They probably didn't. Wouldn't you rather know?
MRS MATHEWS: Go ahead and look if you want. I don't care what you do.
WELLES: You were right. I didn't find anything. I'm going to run and get something to eat. Are you hungry?
MRS MATHEWS: INT. COPY SHOP LATE DAY Welles uses a self-serve COPY MACHINE, flattening the DIARY on the glass, photocopying the DIARY as quickly as he can.
WELLES: Do you ever consider. do you realize that Mary may never come
MRS MATHEWS: I think about it everyday. But, every time the phone rings. every single time, I still think it's her.
WELLES: It's been six years.
MRS MATHEWS: What am I supposed to do? Forget her? Time heals all wounds, right? She's all I think about, and I've learned to live with that. But, you want the truth. the real truth? If I had a choice. if I had to choose, between her being out there, living a good life and being happy, and me not knowing; never finding out what happened to her. . or her being dead and me I'd choose to know.
WELLES: Excuse me, I have to use your
WELLES: Is this pretty much it?
WELLES: Just. just videos?
PIERCED CLERK: What are you looking for?
WELLES: PIERCED CLERK
PIERCED CLERK: INT. ADULT BOOKSTORE DAY Welles comes in through the blacked-out door. This place is larger than the last. TWO CLERKS are behind the counter. One clerk's pricing porn, the other, MAX, 25, reads a porno- novel. Max has long hair, colorful tattoos covering his forearms, has a HIGHLIGHTER MARKER in his mouth. Welles browses. There's a huge video bargain bin. Walls are covered in videos, sex toys, inflatable women, etc. CUSTOMERS, again all wary males, follow proper porn-shop etiquette; look at the porn, not your fellow shopper. There are "PEEP SHOW" booths in the back. A MAN looks around, trying to be nonchalant, sweating profusely, slipping behind one curtain. Welles pretends to read the packaging on a triple-pack of dildos, looks towards the front. Behind the register, Max takes a look to make sure the other clerk is busy, takes the cap of his Highlighter pen and highlights a section in the book he's reading. Welles notes this. He goes to the substantial MAGAZINE RACK, picks up a porn tabloid, pages through it. He selects sex MAGAZINES and NEWSPAPERS, choosing about twenty-five. Welles takes this pile up to Max, gets out his wallet. Max starts ringing everything up.
MAX: Big date tonight?
WELLES: ( embarrassed ) Yeah. guess so.
MAX: Can I interest you in a battery Pardon me?
WELLES: Pardon me?
MAX: My boss tells me I have to do more suggestive selling.
WELLES: Well, it's tempting, but no thanks.
MAX: It's your call, but you're gonna be sorry when you're in one of those everyday situations that call for a battery-operated vagina and you don't have one.
WELLES: I'll risk it.
MAX: Thank you for shopping at Adult Bookstore. Have a nice day.
WELLES: What are you reading?
MAX: Once you pick it up you can't put it Catchy title. What are you really Hard to believe that book's got any parts worth highlighting.
WELLES: Catchy title. What are you really Hard to believe that book's got any parts worth highlighting.
WELLES: Truman Capote.
MAX: I tear off the cover and paste this one on. You know how it is.
WELLES: Wouldn't want to embarrass yourself in front of your fellow perverts.
MAX: ( smiles, shrugs ) Might get drummed out of the pornographer's union, and then where would I be?
WELLES: ( into phone ) Hi, honey, how are you? How's Cindy? ( listens ) The way it's going I'm about ready to pack my bags.
WELLES: ( into phone ) I miss you too. I love you very much. Give Cinderella a kiss for me and tell her I love her, alright? ( listens )
WELLES: Remember me?
MAX: Came back for that battery-operated vagina, right? Told you you would.
WELLES: I need some information. Thought you might be able to help.
MAX: ( of identification ) Thomas Welles. Nice picture.
WELLES: I'll be outside having a cigarette.
MAX: ( to other clerk ) Cover me, Beth. I'm taking a break.
MAX: I don't know what you're looking for, mister, but so we're clear from the start, I'm straight.
WELLES: Good for you.
WELLES: How long you been working there?
MAX: Three, four years.
WELLES: What's your name, if you don't mind me asking?
MAX: Well, here's the deal, Max. This thing I'm on right now has something to do with underground pornography. Stuff that's sold under the counter, There's not much illegal.
WELLES: Well, here's the deal, Max. This thing I'm on right now has something to do with underground pornography. Stuff that's sold under the counter, There's not much illegal.
MAX: There's not much illegal.
WELLES: Well, whatever there is, whoever's dealing, however it's done, I want to know. I want a good look, so if you've got that kind of connection, great. If not, speak now.
MAX: You're not a cop, are you? If I ask and you are, you have to tell me.
WELLES: I'm not a cop.
MAX: You're a private eye. Like Shaft.
WELLES: Not quite.
MAX: From Pennsylvania. P.I. from PA. What are you doing out here?
WELLES: Well, there's the thing; you're not gonna know anything about what I'm doing, but you can make some money.
MAX: How much?
WELLES: How much do you make now?
MAX: Four hundred a week, off the books.
WELLES: Okay, let's pretend I live in the same fantasy world where you make four hundred a week in that dump. I'll give you six hundred for a few Sounds good, pops.
MAX: Sounds good, pops.
WELLES: Here's my number if you need it. When can you start?
MAX: Tomorrow night, I get off at eight.
WELLES: See you then. Oh, and, don't call me "pops."
WELLES: ( into phone ) . Hello. ?
MAX: Come on.
GOON: Are you a law enforcement agent or in any way affiliated with law Fuck you, Larry.
MAX: Fuck you, Larry.
GOON: ( to Welles ) Are you a law enforcement. ?
WELLES: INT. BASEMENT NIGHT Max and Welles enter through the double doors, into a kind of small, underground porn flea market. It's incredibly quiet. About fifteen CARD TABLES are set up in rows. The MEN behind the tables and the thirty or so "CUSTOMERS" looking through the merchandise make those in the previous porn shops look like high society. These are MIDDLE-AGED MEN, most balding, some with pot bellies, in shorts and tube socks, in sweatpants and Members Only jackets: plain men, but with a look of desperation in their eyes, glancing around nervously, greasy and afraid.
ONE DEALER: We're shutting down in fifteen minutes. Fifteen minutes.
WELLES: ( points to numbered videos ) What are these?
ANGRY DEALER: Mixed hard bondage. Rape films. Sick shit. Buy five, get one free.
WELLES: Anything harder?
ANGRY DEALER: There's nothing harder.
WELLES: ANGRY DEALER
ANGRY DEALER: What you see is what I got, mister.
WELLES: You know where I can get it? I have a lot of money to spend.
ANGRY DEALER: There ain't no such thing as snuff. Why don't you fuck off?
LARGE MAN: You have to pay to come in here.
MAX: You've got Penthouse, Playboy, Hustler, etc. Nobody even considers them pornography anymore. Then, there's mainstream hardcore. Triple X. The difference is penetration. That's hardcore. That whole industry's up in the valley. Writers, directors, porn stars. They're celebrities, or they think they are. They pump out 150 videos a week. A week. They've even got a porno Academy Awards. America loves pornography. Anybody tells you they never use pornography, they're lying. Somebody's buying those videos. Somebody's out there spending 900 million dollars a year on phone sex. Know what else? It's only gonna get worse. More and more you'll see perverse hardcore coming into the mainstream, because that's evolution. Desensitization. Oh my God, Elvis Presley's wiggling his hips, how offensive! Nowadays, Mtv's showing girls dancing around in thong bikinis with their asses hanging out. Know what I mean? For the porn-addict, big tits aren't big enough after a while. They have to be the biggest tits ever. Some porn chicks are putting in breast implants bigger than your head, literally. Soon, Playboy is gonna be Penthouse, Penthouse'll be Hustler, Hustler'll be hardcore, and hardcore films'll be medical films. People'll be jerking off to women laying around with open wounds. There's nowhere else for it to go.
WELLES: Interesting theory.
MAX: What you saw tonight, we're not talking about a video some dentist takes home over the weekend. We're talking about stuff where people get hurt. Specialty product.
WELLES: Child pornography.
MAX: There's two kinds of specialty product; legal and illegal. Foot fetish, shit films, watersports, bondage, spanking, fisting, she- males, hemaphrodites. it's beyond hardcore, but legal. This is the kind of hardcore where one guy's going to look at it and throw up, another guy looks at it and falls in love. Now, with some of the S+M and bondage films, they straddle the line. How are you supposed to tell if the person tied up with the ball gag in their mouth is a consenting or not? Step over that line, you're into kiddie porn. Rape films, but there aren't many. I've never seen Snuff films.
WELLES: Snuff films.
MAX: I heard you asking. That guy wasn't yanking you around. There's no such What other ways are there to get illegal films? Who do you see?
WELLES: What other ways are there to get illegal films? Who do you see?
MAX: First of all, basement sales like tonight aren't gonna last much longer. It's too risky, one, and two, everything's going on the internet. Anyone with a computer and enough patience can find anything he wants. It's heaven for those degenerate chicken-hawks. They're swapping pictures back and forth as fast as their modems can zap 'em. But, there's still some weird shit under the counter where I work sometimes. No one knows where it comes from. That's local underground, where information spreads by word of mouth. Those are zombies, hardcore junkies. Their hands are permanently pruned. They go out in the sun they don't burn, they blister. Other than that, all I know about is the mail. Classified ads in the paper with hidden codes. Secret couriers. Credit card orders to dummy corporations. Interstate wire transfers. Revolving P.O. boxes. But, if you're asking me who do you go to to get illegal shit. who knows? That's the whole point the seller stays as far away from the buyer as possible, and vice versa, and cops can't trace the deal. There's ways to do it so nobody knows who anybody is.
WELLES: How old are you?
MAX: Where are your parents?
WELLES: Where are your parents?
MAX: I don't know, where are yours?
WELLES: I don't mean any offense. but what are you doing mixed up in all this?
MAX: I'm not mixed up in anything, hayseed. What are you talking about?
WELLES: You just strike me as smart enough to be doing something else.
MAX: Yeah, I'm a real genius. What choices have I got? Fuck, just because I know about stuff like tonight doesn't mean I deal it. I work a job. It beats pumping gas, beats making hamburgers.
WELLES: You're telling me it doesn't get to You can't sit there all day watching the parade of losers that comes into that place without going numb. So Am I gonna go off and be a race car driver? Go to Harvard? Run for President? What about you, pops?
MAX: You can't sit there all day watching the parade of losers that comes into that place without going numb. So Am I gonna go off and be a race car driver? Go to Harvard? Run for President? What about you, pops?
WELLES: What about me?
MAX: I see a ring on your finger. You have any kids?
WELLES: A daughter.
MAX: So, you have a wife and kid waiting for you in Pennsylvania. what are you doing mixed up in all this?
WELLES: Good question.
MRS CHRISTIAN: ( into phone ) My husband had five cash accounts he used to temporarily hold stock profits. Between November of 1991 and March of 1992, he wrote one check out to cash from each account. He wrote these himself.
WELLES: ( into phone ) ( from phone ) My husband never dealt with money personally, certainly not cash.
WELLES: I'm not positive this means anything.
MRS CHRISTIAN: ( into phone ) One was for two hundred thousand, one dollar and thirteen cents. Another was for three hundred thousand, six hundred fifty four dollars and seventy six cents.
MRS CHRISTIAN: Totalled together, these five checks from five different accounts, they equal one million dollars.
WELLES: ( into phone ) You're joking.
WELLES: I'm here.
WELLES: For a human life. murder on film, no statute of limitations. Who knows? It sure could have. I'd like you to overnight me a copy of those checks, then put them in a safe deposit box.
WELLES: Send it to me through the post office like we arranged. No return address. You dug this up all by You told me to look, so I looked.
WELLES: You're one hell of a detective, Mrs.
WELLES: Her name was Mary Anne Mathews.
NUN: Yes. I remember Mary
WELLES: You. you do? You're sure? Please, Sister, will you take another look, make sure.
NUN: ( examines picture ) Yes. I remember her.
NUN: She lived here for only about a month, if I recall correctly. She didn't return one night. She never came back. I didn't know what to
NUN: Do you know what happened to her?
WELLES: I'm trying to find out. She was a runaway. I'm looking into it for her parents.
NUN: ( pointing on shelf ) Can you get that down for me?
NUN: No, the next shelf. there.
WELLES: What is this?
NUN: Those are her belongings.
WELLES: Her belongings?
NUN: That's her suitcase. I had forgotten it, till you showed me her picture.
WELLES: Whatever possessed you to keep this all this time?
NUN: She was the kindest, sweetest girl you'd ever want to meet. Oh, I adored her. I supposed I always hoped she'd be back. After a time, all I could do was pray she had moved on to better things. Can you get this suitcase to her parents, if you think it's appropriate?
WELLES: I'll do what I can.
WELLES: This is better. This will be fine.
WELLES: No thank you.
FURTHER ON: Eddie's car pulls into the driveway under the porch of a ramshackle HOUSE, parks. Welles' car passes by.
WELLES: Okay, I'll take it all.
SALESPERSON: Excellent. we accept MasterCard and American Express.
WELLES: Welles takes out a thick wad, starts counting.
SALESPERSON: ( at register ) May I have your phone number, area code first?
WELLES: No, you may not.
SALESPERSON: Okay. Fine.
SALESPERSON: I'm required by state law to inform you that, while it's perfectly legal for you to purchase these items, it is illegal for you to use them for any sort of.
WELLES: Yeah, I know the spiel. If you could bag it, I'll be on my way, thank you.
SALESPERSON: Certainly, sir.
WELLES: Come on, Eddie.
WELLES: That is you, isn't it, Eddie?
WELLES: ( quiet, to himself ) Two one two.
WELLES: ( into phone ) What do you know about a guy called Dino Velvet? Dino Velvet Films?
MAX: ( into phone ) Dino Velvet. yeah, he's like the John Luc Godard of S+M flicks, supposed to be a real weirdo.
MAX: ( into phone ) His stuff comes out of New York. Bondage and fetish videos, Gothic Hardcore. Definitely not for the Specialty product.
MAX: You're learning.
MAX: Out of the back of bondage magazines mostly, but you can find it on the street if you look. He'll also do commissions, for enough money.
WELLES: ( into phone ) Alright, I get the picture.
WELLES: Well, I'm in New York now. What do you say to flying out and giving me a hand?
WELLES: Take a vacation. I'll pay you four hundred a day, plus expenses.
WELLES: Consider it. Meanwhile, dig up whatever Dino Velvet films you can. Get receipts. I'll call back.
MRS CHRISTIAN: ( into phone, weakly ) ( from phone ) Mrs. Christian, Tom Welles here.
MRS CHRISTIAN: ( coughing ) How are you? Having any luck?
MRS CHRISTIAN: I've been ordered into bed. The doctor says I've gotten the flu, or some other wretched ailment.
MRS CHRISTIAN: Nothing more than a bother. Have you any news for me?
WELLES: ( into phone ) I've made progress. I'm in Manhattan. Once a few more pieces fall into place, I'll drive to you and give you an update.
WELLES: I've got about five thousand left in cash, but I'll need another thirty, if you approve.
MRS CHRISTIAN: How will I get it to you?
WELLES: If you have a pencil and paper, I'll tell you how to send it.
MAX: You didn't say it was gonna be this It's their Presidential Suite.
WELLES: It's their Presidential Suite.
MAX: Max looks in the bathroom.
MAX: Oh, come on, man, what are we doing in this flea bag?
WELLES: It's cheap, and people know to mind their own business. What have you got for me?
MAX: Dino Velvet.
WELLES: Max. wake up.
MAX: Wha. ?
WELLES: ( points at TV ) Who is this, in the mask? Who is he?
MAX: He's one of the lunatics Dino uses. He's in a bunch of these.
MAX: Why? He have something to do with whatever you're into?
WELLES: No. it's nothing. that's not him.
WELLES: Who is he?
MAX: I told you, he's one of Dino Velvet's stock players.
WELLES: Who is he, his
MAX: Nobody knows his name. That's his thing. He always wears a mask. You never see his face. He calls himself "Machine," that's what they call him. Machine.
MAX: They say he's half brain-dead from all the steroids he's using.
MAX: He's a brutal motherfucker, man. He loves what he does for a living.
WELLES: You don't need to be here.
MAX: What kind of Junior P.I. would I be if I didn't go with you?
THUG: You're in the wrong place.
WELLES: We're looking for Mr. Velvet.
THUG: He's not here.
WELLES: Why don't you tell him we're here to give him a large sum of money. If he's not interested, we'll go.
THUG: You should leave now, before I have to remove you.
WELLES: You heard the boss, Milo.
DINO VELVET: Come in. Make yourself comfortable.
WELLES: It's an honor to meet you. Thank you for seeing us.
DINO VELVET: What can I do for you today?
WELLES: I'd like to commission a work. I'm a great admirer of yours.
DINO VELVET: Flattering. And, who's your colorful little chum?
WELLES: A fellow investor.
DINO VELVET: You're the only one still shooting film and transferring it to video. Nobody appreciates that kind of integrity anymore. the grain, the gritty look you get.
MAX: You're the only one still shooting film and transferring it to video. Nobody appreciates that kind of integrity anymore. the grain, the gritty look you get.
DINO VELVET: Well, I'm glad you appreciate it. What would you say is your favorite
MAX: I know if I had to pick, it'd be "Choke," or "Devil."
WELLES: "Devil" frightened me as much as it excited me, but I'd be hard pressed to choose a favorite.
DINO VELVET: You said something about money.
WELLES: Yes. What we're looking for is rather specific.
WELLES: That's five thousand dollars.
DINO VELVET: Is it?
WELLES: Five thousand now, five thousand on Two women, one white and one black, as long as they have large breasts. Hard bondage, or course. Other than that, trusting your artistic interpretation, I have only two And they are?
DINO VELVET: And they are?
WELLES: I want to watch you work.
DINO VELVET: I'll consider it.
WELLES: And the other performer. it has to be that monster you use. the man in the mask.
DINO VELVET: If it's not him, there's no deal.
WELLES: If it's not him, there's no deal.
DINO VELVET: He might be interested. but it would mean another five thousand.
WELLES: We can do that.
DINO VELVET: Well, well, I'll have to put my thinking-cap on about all this. You'll leave the money as a deposit? Very good.
DINO VELVET: You have a beautiful face. the way the light hits it. I'd like to take your picture. You don't mind?
WELLES: I'd rather you didn't.
DINO VELVET: What's the problem?
WELLES: I'm camera shy.
DINO VELVET: You trust me to keep your money, but not to take your picture?
WELLES: Those are two different kinds of Thank you for your time. I hope we can do business.
WELLES: ( into phone ) So, what do you say?
DINO VELVET: ( into phone ) I'll do this for you. Fifteen thousand dollars.
DINO VELVET: ( into phone ) He's in. It will be his pleasure.
WELLES: ( into phone ) Where's that?
MAX: What's next?
WELLES: I'm trying to figure that out myself. I have to see Machine without his mask.
MAX: Still don't want to tell me what you're doing?
WELLES: The old woman climbs out and heads back to the diving board. Welles takes out a thick ENVELOPE, hands it to Max.
WELLES: This is for you.
MAX: What's this?
WELLES: It's money. People use it to purchase goods and services.
MAX: Look. that's awful generous and It's not my money. The woman I got it from is never going to give it a second thought. Let's not make a big deal out of this, okay? Go be a race car driver. Go run for President. Whatever.
WELLES: It's not my money. The woman I got it from is never going to give it a second thought. Let's not make a big deal out of this, okay? Go be a race car driver. Go run for President. Whatever.
WELLES: I'll see you around.
DINO VELVET: There you are. Come join us.
WELLES: ( to Machine )
DINO VELVET: You brought the money?
WELLES: ( takes out envelope ) Right here.
DINO VELVET: Where are the women?
WELLES: Where are the women?
DINO VELVET: They should be here any minute.
WELLES: ( of the knifes ) What are these for?
DINO VELVET: Hmm? Oh, the knifes? They're just props. Nice, aren't they?
WELLES: Dino walks across towards the target.
DINO VELVET: Machine and I were just talking about knifes. The beauty of
DINO VELVET: He was saying how fascinated he is by their simple ability to be sharp. The ability of a piece of metal to be so thin that it is almost
DINO VELVET: So close to nothingness that it cuts with minimum effort, because it's so non-intrusive. Flesh is fooled. It blooms open as the blade widens, but by then it's too late, because the knife's already doing its pure, simple damage.
DINO VELVET: Ah, ours guests have arrived.
DINO VELVET: Mister Welles. would you be so kind as to remove any firearms from your person?
WELLES: What are you. ?
DINO VELVET: Take out your gun!
DINO VELVET: Slowly. Let me see it.
DINO VELVET: Empty the gun onto the table, very Look, I don't know what this.
WELLES: Look, I don't know what this.
DINO VELVET: Shut up, cunt! Do exactly as I say, or I'll put this arrow through your
EDDIE: Is that him?
DINO VELVET: ( to Welles ) Put the gun down, take the handcuffs. Handcuff yourself to the
DINO VELVET: ( still to Welles ) Didn't know what to make of you at first, and you certainly had Eddie on pins and needles. But, lo and behold, from out of the blue came an old business acquaintance to explain
EDDIE: This is the fucker? Motherfucker, doesn't look like anything.
EDDIE: Doesn't look like shit.
DINO VELVET: ( to Welles ) You remember Mr. Longdale, don't you?
WELLES: I remember him.
LONGDALE: Let's get this over with.
DINO VELVET: Fine idea.
DINO VELVET: You're going to go get the film you received from Mrs. Christian, bring it here and put it in my hand. And to save time, so we make this as efficient as possible, there's an
WELLES: Welles tries to go towards Max, yanked back by the handcuffs, pulls the bed a few inches, but it's heavy.
DINO VELVET: Friend of yours?
WELLES: Look, he's got nothing to do with this. let him go.
DINO VELVET: Can you guess what I'm going to say He doesn't know anything. he's got nothing to do with this.
WELLES: He doesn't know anything. he's got nothing to do with this.
DINO VELVET: Bring the film, or we kill him.
WELLES: I'll get it. It's in a safe deposit box, in the city.
DINO VELVET: How cooperative. Longdale will keep you company.
DINO VELVET: Don't let Longdale's questionable choice of weapon give you any ideas. If his fey little gun puts enough little holes in you, you'll be just as dead. and so will Max.
EDDIE: Move it, dirtbag. !
DINO VELVET: ( watching them go ) Do hurry.
WELLES: You were the middleman, am I right? Old man Christian wasn't about to go shopping for a snuff film himself.
LONGDALE: Wouldn't exactly have been possible for a man of his stature.
WELLES: So, he sent you, gave you the money, his errand-boy. And if you refused, it wasn't like you could tell anyone your pervert boss just asked you to get him a snuff film. That's the beauty of lawyer/client privilege.
LONGDALE: That's trust. Mr. Christian trusted me implicitly.
WELLES: Must have paid you a lot, for you to risk everything. Would've had to have cut yourself a real nice piece of money.
LONGDALE: I was well compensated.
WELLES: That's why you got scared when Mrs. Christian hired me. You knew about the film, figured it had to be in that safe. How'd you find me?
LONGDALE: Never mind how I found you.
WELLES: Followed me. must have freaked out when you saw me closing in on your They're no friends of mine.
LONGDALE: They're no friends of mine.
WELLES: Except, you're willing commit murder with them.
LONGDALE: None of this would be happening if you would have left it alone. If you weren't digging up a girl who died six years ago. A girl no one even remembers.
WELLES: Mary Anne Mathews, that was her name. Her mom remembers her.
WELLES: You found these smut dealers and asked to buy a snuff film, right? Wanted them to find you one. Well, they didn't find you one, Longdale, they went out and made you one.
LONGDALE: Shut up.
WELLES: Mary Anne Mathews was alive till you paid money to have her murdered.
LONGDALE: Shut your mouth and drive!
WELLES: Did it get him off, huh, watching them cut her up? Tell me, because I really want to understand. Did he jerk off to it? You watch it with him, sit there giving him a handjob while you both watched. ?
LONGDALE: You're making me very angry.
WELLES: Just tell me. Tell me some more of the secrets you and Christian shared. What kind of degenerate pervert was he really? What the fuck did he want with a snuff film?
LONGDALE: You're asking me why?
WELLES: I'm asking.
LONGDALE: A man like Mr. Christian, a great man. all his money, all his power. a man who attained everything there was to attain.
WELLES: Why did he buy a film of some poor, lost girl getting butchered?
LONGDALE: Isn't it incredibly obvious?
WELLES: Enlighten me.
LONGDALE: Because he could. He did it because he could. What other reason were you looking
LONGDALE: You've got four minutes till I call Mr. Velvet and let him know there's a problem.
MANAGER: May I show you to a booth.
WELLES: No, I've got it.
LONGDALE: You almost went over your limit.
WELLES: Fuck you.
LONGDALE: Give me the film.
WELLES: You'll get it when we get there.
LONGDALE: Give me the film.
WELLES: Go ahead, shoot me. Then try driving to Brooklyn with my brains all over the windshield.
WELLES: Welles runs towards Max, crying out, tears in his eyes. Machine rises, goes to intercept Welles, grabbing him. Welles tries to break free, but Machine lifts Welles up and throws him brutally to the ground. Welles scrambles to get up.
WELLES: You fuckers!
EDDIE: You're a dead man.
DINO VELVET: Leave him alone.
EDDIE: Fuck off.
EDDIE: What the fuck. !
DINO: I promised him to Machine.
EDDIE: . sorry.
DINO VELVET: First things first. You might want to watch this, Mr. Welles.
WELLES: Don't. please.
DINO VELVET: And so it ends. It's as if she never existed.
DINO VELVET: Don't blame yourself. You were in way over your head.
WELLES: Motherfuckers. Small time, motherfuckers. ! Tell me
WELLES: I know why you did it, Dino, Eddie. but, why'd the lawyer do it? Must have been a helluva lot of money, right? One fuckload of
WELLES: So, what are you all still doing small time, huh? What are you still doing in the sewer, Eddie?! Christian gave Longdale a million dollars to find him a snuff film. How much did you ever see. ?
EDDIE: What's he talking about?
WELLES: One million dollars, Dino. How much did he tell you he had.
LONGDALE: He's lying.
WELLES: Look at him. You think he played it square? How much did he give you, how much did he keep for himself?
EDDIE: What the fuck's he talking about?
LONGDALE: Stay away from me.
DINO VELVET: What's going on, Longdale? Did this You sell us short, you fuck?
EDDIE: You sell us short, you fuck?
LONGDALE: Stay back! You have a gun, Eddie, show it to me. Now!
LONGDALE: Put it on the ground, kick it here.
EDDIE: You fucking lawyer.
LONGDALE: Move back! All of you. move!
DINO VELVET: What were you thinking?
LONGDALE: Back off! Everything's been taken care of, and I'm leaving now.
DINO VELVET: You're not going anywhere if you fucked us, lawyer.
LONGDALE: I'm leaving.
EDDIE: You got the guts, tough guy? Gonna kill us all, is that it?
DINO VELVET: You betrayed us.
LONGDALE: Stay where you are!
LONGDALE: Keep back!
DINO VELVET: You're not gonna live through this.
LONGDALE: Our business is done, I'm leaving, no one's going to stop me.
DINO VELVET: Fuck you!
EDDIE: Eddie comes to look down at the Longdale. Longdale falls back, dead, blood still flowing from his maw. Welles drags the heavy bed, getting closer to the table. Eddie spins, looks across to see Welles struggling. Dino breaks free from Machine, runs blindly, still holding his gushing face, falls, tries to get back up. Eddie runs towards Welles. Dino stumbles forwards, writhing, then suddenly lays still. Machine rises, looking at Dino. Tears come out from Machine's eyes and roll down his mask. One last gasp and shudder from Dino's body; death rattle. Welles pulls the bed, practically pulling his arm from the socket, desperately clawing towards the table. The table is mere feet away. Eddie arrives, KICK Welles in the ribs. Welles recoils. Eddies KICKS again. Welles curls into a ball. Eddie KICKS again.
NO!: Eddie stops, looks to Machine.
MACHINE: He's mine!
WELLES: No, no, no. please, don't kill me. please. !
EDDIE: Do him good.
WELLES: Back off, Eddie.
WELLES: Stop Eddie!
WELLES: ( pulls back the hammer ) I swear to Christ I'll shoot you in the back. !
WELLES: Come back, or I put a hole in him.
WELLES: You might make it to your gun, but not before I shoot Machine. And if I have to shoot him because of you, and I don't kill him, right after he kills me, he's gonna kill you.
WELLES: ( to Machine ) Take off the mask.
WELLES: Take it off!
MACHINE: You got one bullet.
MACHINE: The only choice you have now, is which one of us kills you.
MACHINE: Get the gun!
AMY: ( into phone ) ( from phone ) Amy, it's me. Listen very ( into phone ) Tom? Where have you been. ?
AMY: ( into phone ) Tom? Where have you been. ?
WELLES: ( into phone ) Amy, just listen. Take Cindy and get out of the house. Do it now. Go to a hotel and stay there.
WELLES: ( into phone ) I'm okay. Please, honey, I can't explain. Don't use the phone, just pack a bag and get out. I'm on my way. I'll be back at the house in three hours. Call me from the hotel when you get there
WELLES: Just do it, Amy, please, go.
WELLES: ( into phone ) Honey. ?
WELLES: I don't know if I can do that.
AMY: What happened to you?
WELLES: I'm okay, honey, I'm okay. Are you What's going on, Tom? What happened?
AMY: What's going on, Tom? What happened?
WELLES: I can't tell you, Amy. You know I can't. You have to trust me.
AMY: It has to be this way for now. It won't be long.
WELLES: It has to be this way for now. It won't be long.
AMY: Why haven't you called? Why don't you answer your phone?
WELLES: I don't know. I'm sorry.
AMY: You're sorry? What was I supposed to think?
AMY: You owe me an explanation. You can't treat me like this.
WELLES: I wanted to call. I couldn't.
AMY: You couldn't?
WELLES: You don't understand.
AMY: No, I don't, because you're not telling me anything!
WELLES: I was in hell. If I called you. if I heard your voice. it would have been so easy for me to quit. I couldn't do that.
AMY: You should have.
WELLES: Amy, I'm not going to let anything happen to us.
AMY: Look where we are. Look at yourself. You son of a bitch, you don't have any idea what you're putting me through.
WELLES: I don't know what to say
AMY: You're killing me.
WELLES: What was I supposed to think happened to you?!
AMY: What was I supposed to think happened to you?!
WELLES: Welles goes to Amy, but she pulls away. She sits on the bed. Cindy's still crying. Welles sits beside Amy, puts her arms around her.
WELLES: Forgive me.
WELLES: We have to stay here a few days. I'll get more clothing from the house if I can. I'm sorry. We're going to be okay.
AMY: Who are you calling?
WELLES: Mrs. Christian.
AMY: She's all I've got. She's the only Tom. she's dead.
WELLES: She's all I've got. She's the only Tom. she's dead.
AMY: Tom. she's dead.
AMY: She died in her sleep three days ago. It was in the paper.
WELLES: I just talked to her.
AMY: How could you not know?
AMY: Promise you'll stay.
WELLES: Promise you won't go back there, wherever you were. Whatever it was, forget it.
AMY: Promise me.
WELLES: I promise.
WELLES: Hello, Eddie.
WELLES: Put your hands on your head.
WELLES: Put your hands behind your head, lock your finger together, get down on your knees.
WELLES: I owe you a few.
WELLES: Don't go anywhere.
EDDIE: I'm gonna kill you.
WELLES: Don't bore me with that bullshit.
EDDIE: How'd you find me here?
WELLES: Don't ask questions.
EDDIE: Fuck you!
WELLES: Starting to recognize a pattern?
EDDIE: What do you want?
WELLES: Who is Machine?
EDDIE: I don't know.
WELLES: I want his name.
EDDIE: I told you, I don't know.
WELLES: I will never get tired of hurting you, Eddie, so you might want to change your attitude.
EDDIE: What the fuck am I gonna protect that freak for? He was Dino's boy, not mine. He shows up with his mask on, leaves with his mask on. Nobody
WELLES: Okay, we'll come back to that. So, six years ago a guy contacts you, through the classifieds, over the phone, however he does it. It's Longdale, looking for a snuff film. And you, entrepreneur that you are, tell him you can hook him up.
EDDIE: Yeah, the fucking lawyer.
WELLES: Told him you could get him a snuff How much did he pay you?
EDDIE: How much did he pay you?
WELLES: How much did he pay you?
EDDIE: Thirty thousand each, that fucking That's all? Thirty each. That's all it took for you to murder her?
WELLES: That's all? Thirty each. That's all it took for you to murder her?
EDDIE: It was a lot of fucking money.
WELLES: So. you brought Dino in, and he brought Machine. And, one day, a girl walked into your office because you had an ad in the paper for models. And she never walked out.
EDDIE: Something like that.
WELLES: What did you do, knock her out, shoot her up. ?
EDDIE: What the fuck do you want from me?
WELLES: I want to know. I want to know exactly what you did to her!
EDDIE: Fuck you then, you want to know? I talked her up, told her how beautiful she was, told her she was gonna be a star. I told her I was gonna get her a screen test, and while I'm doing that, I got her a soda and dropped a mickey. When it was dark enough, I rang Dino and told him it was go time, I put her in the trunk of my car and we went and we fucking did it. That's what happened. She's dead. She's been dead a long fucking time. Nobody fucking cares!
EDDIE: You wanted to know, now you know.
EDDIE: That's right, motherfucker, cut me loose. Be a man.
WELLES: Show me!
WELLES: Show me where you did it, on the map, exactly where you did it.
EDDIE: Because we're going there.
WELLES: Because we're going there.
EDDIE: What are we doing here?
WELLES: That night. you didn't have to be in the room, but you were. Why? Why did you watch?
EDDIE: I don't know. I felt like it. I never saw anyone get done before.
WELLES: You enjoy it?
EDDIE: Made me sick, but what did I care? What did I care if some hump wants to beat off to that. It was just something I was doing for money.
WELLES: Tell me what happened.
EDDIE: What do you want to know? You saw it, you saw the loop.
WELLES: Nobody saw you bring her in?
EDDIE: There wasn't nobody around. This place was a shit-hole. I backed up the car to the door and we carried her in, like groceries. Dino made her eat a bunch of pills, we laid out the plastic, put film in the camera and Machine went to work.
WELLES: What did you do with her body?
EDDIE: Took it out the bathroom window. Buried it in the woods.
WELLES: Show me.
EDDIE: What are you thinking you're gonna do. ?
WELLES: Keep moving.
EDDIE: Where do you think you're taking this, huh? Gonna be a big hero, avenge that little girl's death? Gonna make everything right with the world? How you gonna do that. ?
FURTHER ON: Welles and Eddie come over a hill, deeper into the forest.
EDDIE: You can't go to the cops. All you can do is cut me loose and walk away, because you got nothing.
WELLES: Stop talking.
EDDIE: You got absolute zero.
WELLES: Show me where you buried her.
EDDIE: I don't know. . out there somewhere.
WELLES: Where? Show me where.
EDDIE: I fucking don't know. What do you think. we weren't burying treasure. We didn't pace it out so we could come back and get it. We dug a hole and we put her in it. Your guess is as good as mine.
EDDIE: You'll never find her. Nobody ever will, and even if they did, it doesn't mean nothing. Bring in the cops, bring in the F.B.I., fuck 'em all. Without the film, it never happened. Don't you get it? It's over. You can't do anything.
WELLES: I can kill you. I can leave you out here, just like you left her.
EDDIE: Do it.
WELLES: Don't think I won't.
EDDIE: Do it! Put me out of my misery so I don't have to listen to you whining anymore. You think it's so Easy enough for you.
WELLES: Easy enough for you.
EDDIE: I never killed anyone.
WELLES: That's right, you just stood there and watched, because you "felt like it." Almost makes you worse.
EDDIE: What do you want? You want me to fall to my knees and start crying like a baby. ?
EDDIE: Where you going? You're the one with the gun. Aren't I defenseless enough? Come on.
EDDIE: Go ahead and kill me. Kill me with that gun, your gun, right, registered in your name? Dig the hole yourself, with your bare hands, bury the body with your bullets in it. Fucking do it!
EDDIE: You pussy.
EDDIE: Fucking pussy!
WELLES: ( into phone ) Mrs. Mathews? It's Thomas. Do you remember, I was there a few weeks ago. asking about your daughter.
WELLES: ( into phone ) I have to tell you something. It won't be easy for you to hear. It's about your daughter. Mary Anne. ( struggling ) When I. when I was there with you, her diary, in your attic, in silverware. If you read it, you'll know what I'm telling you is true.
WELLES: She went to California, to Los Angeles. she wanted to start over. She wanted to be an actress.
WELLES: Mrs. Mathews, your daughter is dead. She's dead.
MRS MATHEWS: Who is this. ?
WELLES: Someone. some men, they took your daughter and they drugged her, and they took her to a motel room. they did terrible things to her.
WELLES: They brought her into the room. one man, he put a knife to her throat and he raped her.
MRS MATHEWS: He raped her and.and.and he murdered her.he cut her up with No. no. no.
WELLES: He raped her and.and.and he murdered her.he cut her up with No. no. no.
WELLES: They killed her, and they took her out in the forest somewhere and they buried her.
WELLES: They murdered her, Mrs. Mathews, I'm sorry. It happened a month after she ran away. She's been dead all this time.
WELLES: I'm sorry, I'm so sorry. there wasn't anything anyone could do.
AGENT: There you are, Mr. Welles, confirmed through to Kennedy. Gate 32B.
AGENT: Mr. Welles?
AGENT: Gate 32B.
WELLES: ( into phone ) Hello, can you connect me with the duty nurse? ( waits ) Hello, this is Lieutenant Anderson down here in the Thirteenth Precinct. I've got a helluva problem I was hoping you could give me a hand with. We had a stabbing incident a couple of days ago, and it looks like the supposed victim gave us a false name and address. Can you tell me if you had an adult male with an abdominal wound in you ER in the last forty-eight hours? ( listens ) You'd remember this guy; a body- builder, real big guy, five foot eleven, with acne all over his chest and back. ( listens ) Alright, thanks for your help.
WELLES: ( into phone ) . guy sticks out like a sore thumb. Five foot ten or eleven, body-builder, bad acne. ( listen ) Okay, thanks anyway.
WELLES: ( into phone ) He's a body-builder, stands just under six feet.
WELLES: ( into phone ) That's right. covered in acne. That's him, that's the guy. Listen, we, uh. we think he filed a bogus report on this stabbing, gave us a false name and address. ( listens ) Yes, I'll hold.
WELLES: ( into phone ) Yes. yes. ( sits, writing in pad ) Christopher Higgins. Thirty- fifteen, Thirty Fifth Street. Where? Astoria, Queens.
THROUGH BINOCULARS: The old woman says something to someone we cannot see. She's at the dinner table, with a place setting in front of her. After a moment, someone joins her. It's Machine, you can tell by his bulk, by his huge forearms. The lacy curtains of the window block part of our view, so we never see his face.
ABOVE: In ONE WINDOW of the quaint house, an eyeball is peering out from lacy curtains, then moves away and curtains fall shut.
WELLES: Hello?! Amy?
AMY: No answer.
AMY: How much forgiveness do you think I have in me?
WELLES: I can't talk about it yet. not
WELLES: Why. why. ?
AMY: Tom. ?
WELLES: I have to tell you. I have to tell you what happened. I have to tell you everything, but we can't tell anyone else. No one else can ever
WELLES: You're all I've got. You're all I've ever had. You're the only one who can save me.
