Rachel: Good, you guys are all here!
Ross: Hey! What's up?
Rachel: Well, I have a job interview at Ralph Lauren tomorrow!
All: Congratulations! Ohh, that's great!
Rachel: I know!
Joey: Boy, that guy's underwear sucks!
Rachel: Wh-what?!
Joey: I got this pair marked excess, I gotta tell ya, there was no room for
excess anything in there.
Rachel: Anyway, I'm going to be the coordinator of the woman's collection, I'll
work right under the director, it's the perfect, perfect job for me!
Phoebe: Wow! Well, if you nail the interview, you'll get it!
Rachel: Yeah.
Phoebe: You wanna work on your interview skills?
Rachel: O-okay!
Phoebe: Okay! All right, let's start with the handshake. Hi.
Rachel: Hi. 
Phoebe: Very good handshake, good wrist action.
Monica: Let me try. (Gets up to join them.)
Phoebe: Okay. (They shake hands and she pulls away suddenly) Oh my God! What did
I ever do to you?! (Rubbing her hand.)
Monica: Did I squeeze it too hard?
Phoebe: Let's just say, I'm glad I'm not Chandler.
Joey: That's right Ross, I can see you in your new apartment! And you can see
me! Same as yesterday, (To Monica) same as the day before.
Monica: Is he doing his shark attack bit yet?
Joey: Nope. Op, wait! There he goes. 
Joey: (waving) Very funny Ross! Very life-like and funny. Okay. (Notices that a
woman is waving back.) Oh no-no-no, I wasn't waving at you lady. (She just stares at him.)
(Joey sees how beautiful she is.) Whoa, maybe I was! Hey, Monica, this totally hot girl in
Ross's building is flirting with me.
Monica: Get in there man! Flirt back, mix it up!
Monica: (joining him) Wow! She is pretty, huh?
Joey: Tell me about it, huh? (Realizes that she can see Monica.) Oh no-no-no,
I'm not with her, she's just Monica! (He pantomimes that out.) Ewwuck! (He pushes Monica
away and makes a disgusted face.)
Ross: Hey Joey! Great stuff huh?
Joey: This is your place?
Ross: Of course it is. Yeah, come on in. Ooh-ooh, go by the window you can
pretend to be surfing. (He pretends he's surfing by the window.)
Joey: But I counted, you're not supposed to live here! Oh man! (Runs away.)
Joey: Ugh!!
Monica: What happened?
Joey: I ended up at Ross's place. Oh, I musta missed counted or something.
(Looks out the window.) Damn! She's not there anymore. Oh, l-l-look, Ross is doing his
'Watching TV' bit. (We see Ross sitting on the couch and flipping through the channels on
his remote.)
Monica: No Joey, I think he's just watchin' TV. 
Gary: Okay, now I've really have to go!
Phoebe: But it's just so unfair that our date has to get cut short just 'cause
some guy shot at a store clerk.
Gary: I know, but it's my job, sweethart!
Phoebe: Okay, then maybe I can come too!
Phoebe: All right, you go. (They kiss.)
Gary: Bye-bye.
Phoebe: 'Kay, bye!
Phoebe: Oh God!
Monica: What?
Phoebe: Oh I just miss him so much!
Monica: Wow! For just a week you guys are really close, huh?
Phoebe: Yeah, it's weird. I can't help it though he's so sweet, he's like this
little puppy dog, y'know? But like a really tough one that shots bad guys. Ohh, I just love
beginning parts of relationships, y'know?! You just like can't keep your hands off each
other.
Monica: I know it is the best.
Phoebe: So-so how long did that last for you and Chandler?
Monica: What? It's still going on.
Phoebe: Come on, seriously! When did it end?
Monica: I-I am serious, I mean, we're, we're all over each other all the time.
Phoebe: Okay, you know where you are better than I do. I was just curious.
Monica: Oh no, it is okay, I mean as long as you know that Chandler and I
are also very hot and fiery, just as hot as you! I mean our flame, whew, is on fire!
Chandler: (entering) Hey Monica, here's your broom back.
Monica: You are so cute. (She goes over and kisses him passionately.)
Chandler: Oh hey, how'd the interview go?
Rachel: Ugh, horrible! I did the stupidest, most embarrassing thing!
Joey: Did you tell the guy you wanted to have sex with his wife and then fall
right out of your chair?
Rachel: No!
Chandler: So what happened?
Rachel: Ugh, it was horrible! And-and the interview part went so well, y'know? I
even made him laugh. He said something about a boat and I was like, "Well, yeah! If
you've got enough life jackets!" (She starts laughing; Chandler and Joey are not
amused.) Trust me, it was actually, it was very funny. Anyway, so we were saying good-bye
and ugh!
Joey: What happened?
Joey: You kissed him?!
Rachel: Well, I didn't know what else to do!
Chandler: Well you coulda tried, not kissing him.
Rachel: Thanks Chandler.
Monica: (entering from the bathroom) Hey Rach, a guy from Ralph Lauren
called, you got a second interview!
Rachel: I can't believe it! I got a second interview!
Monica: Yes!
Joey: I bet that kiss isn't looking like such a big mistake now, is it?
Rachel: What-what, wait a minute, you don't think that's why he wants me back?
Joey: Yeah! (Chandler makes a noise) No?
Monica: A kiss? What are you talking about?
Rachel: I accidentally kissed him in the interview, and now he wants me back
y'know of course, 'cause "Let's bring the girl back who kisses everybody!"
Chandler: Come on, Rach.
Rachel: Oh my God! What if he thinks I'm the kind of girl that-that would just
sleep with him?
Monica: He probably wants you back because you're right for the job.
Joey: Oh Rachel look, don't say that, I think you just need a hug from Joey.
Come on. Come on. (She hugs him and Joey looks out the window.) She's back! Hot girl's
back!
Rachel: Ohh, well I'm not totally back yet, but thank you.
Joey: No, in Ross's building! (He throws Rachel onto the chair and heads to the
window.) She's back! She's back! (Pantomimes) Okay, wait there, I'll be over in a second.
(He counts where she is again.) Got it! (Runs out and does a little hot over a chair.)
Chandler: I gotta check out this hot girl! (He heads to the window but realizes
something, stops, turns and points at Monica.) There she is! (He dances over to her and
kisses her.)
Joey: Damnit!! Did you move?!
Ross: Yes. I lived with you guys for a while and then I found this place. (Joey
just stares at him) I'm Ross.
Joey: (Looking around) Uhh do you happen to have a hot girl in there?
Joey: Yeah. Sorry about that. (He walks away and knocks on the next door which
is answered by a little girl.) Oh, hey little girl. Uhh, is-is your mommy, or sister, or
babysitter by any chance a hot girl?
Joey: Later! (He runs away down the hall and hides behind a corner to a whole
other corridor.) Oh man! (Walks down the hallway in desperation.) Hot girl! Hot girl!!
Rachel: Hi!
Rachel: Thank you.
Rachel: What?
Rachel: Excuse me?
Rachel: (stopping him) Wh-whoa! All right, okay-okay, I see, I see what's going
on here! Now listen, look-look, I'm sorry if I gave you the wrong impression, but I am not
some hussy who will just sleep around to get ahead! Now even though I (He tries to
interrupt and tell her about the ink), hey-hey-hey, even though I kissed you, that does
not give you the right to demand sex from me. I do not want, this job that
bad. Good day, sir. (She storms out of his office.)
Rachel: (entering) Ugh, you will not believe what that sleaze-ball from Ralph
Lauren did too me!
Rachel: Okay-okay that-that's amazing. How did you know that?
Ross: You got ink on your lip.
Chandler: (To Gary) So what do you say, maybe sometime I hold your gun?
Gary: I don't know man, we're really not supposed to do that.
Gary: Yeah, I'm gonna say no.
Monica: Phoebe, do you want to go see a movie after dinner tonight?
Phoebe: Oh we can't, we already have plans.
Monica: What are you doing?
Phoebe: Well, same thing we did all day, hang out at Gary's apartment. He is so
amazing, we never left the bedroom. But have fun at the movie.
Monica: (That annoying competitiveness thing kicks in again, what the heck is
that with her and why must the writers show it every flippin' episode?!) Oh, we're not
seeing a movie!
Phoebe: You're not? Then why did you ask us if we wanted to go?
Monica: Oh umm, that's because I just wanted to y'know walk in on me and
Chandler while we were, y'know, doing it all night. Will you excuse me for just a second?
Phoebe: Yeah!
Monica: Okay. (She gets up and walks over to Chandler.) Chandler? Can I see you
for a second?
Chandler: Uh, yeah.
Monica: Okay. (They walk away to get some privacy.) We have got to beat
them! {Here we go yet again.}
Chandler: Why?
Monica: 'Cause, Gary and Phoebe think they're a hotter couple than we are!
Chandler: Ohh, so?
Monica: So! So we've got to go upstairs and have a lot of sex to prove them
wrong!
Chandler: Monica, you have got to stop this competitive thing! Okay? It's
crazy. {Finally! The voice of reason.} I mean, just impress Gary and Phoebe we have to go
upstairs and have sex over and over and I'm saying no to this, why? Get your coat.
Ross: (to the woman checking her mail next to him) Hey!
The Man: (To Ross) Excuse me. (He puts up a flyer that has a sketch drawing of
Joey and it reads, "Warning! Intruder! If you see this creep - call the cops!")
You should check this out, tell the other tenants. Apparently he's running around looking
for some kind of a hot girl.
Ross: (to the woman checking her mail) Who isn't? 
Ross: I don't, I don't think we've meet. I-I'm Ross.
Ross: Nevermind! (Goes back to his mailbox.)
Jen: Sure! That would be nice.
Ross: Umm?
Jen: Oh! My number is on there. (Hands him a business card.) Give me a call.
Ross: I will give you a call.
Jen: I'll see you later. (Starts to walk away.)
Ross: Okay!
Jen: I forgot my paper. (Ross quickly hides the card in his mouth.)
Chandler: That was amazing!
Monica: Phoebe and Gary are so gonna hear about this at dinner.
Chandler: That was amazing.
Monica: We are the hottest! Huh? No one is hotter than we are! You're the
best.
Chandler: No, you're the best.
Monica: No, you're the best.
Chandler: No, you're the best.
Monica: I am the best.
Joey: (entering) Hey guys! (Sees their state of undress) What 'cha been doin'?
(Has a silly grin.)
Monica: (looking out the window) Hey Joey! Isn't that the girl that waved at you
the other day?
Joey: I don't know. But I can see through your sheet. (He looks out the window.)
Yeah, yeah, that's her. But y'know what? Doesn't matter, I'm never gonna get to meet her
anyway.
Monica: Why?
Joey: Because it's impossible to find her apartment! She lives in some like of
hot girl parallel universe, or something.
Monica: What are you talking about? (Pointing out the window.) She obviously
lives on the second floor, seventh apartment from the left!
Joey: No. No. No. She lives on the third floor, eighth apartment
from the left.
Monica: No, those first two windows, (Points) that's the lobby. And y'know the
other one over there, that's the stairway. You've been counting wrong.
Joey: I did not know that! Thank you Monica. (Starts to leave) I can't
believe I almost lost another girl because of counting.
Ross: So uhh, you ready?
Jen: Sure, I'll just get my coat. (There's a knock on the door.) Could you get
that?
Joey: Dahhhhh!! (Ross has a puzzled look on his face.) No! Noooo!! (Storms off.)
Rachel: Ah, first, I-I would like to say thank you for agreeing to see me again.
Rachel: (looks around for the camera) Okay. Umm, well, first I would like to
start by apologizing for kissing you and uh, for yelling at you.
Rachel: Zelner! Right! I knew that! I really, really want this job and I think,
I think I would be really good at it.
Rachel: (gasps) Oh! You are?
Phoebe: You tired Chandler?
Monica: You better believe he's tired, after the day we had! If you know what I
mean. You know what I mean?
Chandler: Honey, the tortilla chips know what you mean.
Gary: So uh Chandler, you like that badge I got you?
Chandler: Oh yeah, it's so cool. (He opens his coat and has it pinned to the
lining.) Now I gotta go, Officer Bing has gotta, 10-100. (Pause, softly) That's pee-pee.
(Heads for the bathroom.)
Monica: Phoebe, you have a, a twig in your hair.
Phoebe: Ohh, (laughs) umm, we kinda took a little detour on the way over here.
Monica: You didn't!
Phoebe: We did! We violated Section 12 Paragraph 7 of the criminal code!
Monica: The park huh? A public place.
Gary: Uh-huh.
Monica: I hear ya. Excuse me for just a second! (Gets up and heads for the
bathroom as that annoying Gotta-win-at-all-costs-super-competitive thing kicks in again.)
Monica: Hi Chandler.
Chandler: Monica! This is the Men's room! (Pause) Isn't it?
Monica: Yes it is. You see I've always found the men's bathroom very sexual.
Haven't you?
Chandler: No. And if I did, I don't think we'd be going out. Monica, this is
getting ridiculous!
Monica: Come on, we can't let them win!
Chandler: Ugh, we have already proved that we are hot! Okay? So why-why are you
getting so obsessed about this thing?!
Monica: Because Phoebe and Gary are in
that-can't-keep-their-hands-off-each-other-doing-it-in-the-park phase!
Chandler: (gasps) So?
Chandler: Oh wow! Is that what this all have been about?
Monica: Wasn't it a lot more exciting when we were y'know all over each other
all the time?
Chandler: Yeah that was great. That was really great! But to tell you the truth,
I'm more excited about where we are right now.
Monica: Really?
Chandler: Yeah! I've never been in a relationship that's lasted this long
before. Y'know to get past the beginning and still be around each other all the time, I
think that's pretty incredible. And the fact that this is happening all with you, yeah I
think that's pretty exciting. (Kisses her.)
Monica: That is so sweet. I know that I was acting a little crazy but umm, I
feel the same way.
Chandler: Yeah?
Monica: Yeah. (They hug.)
Chandler: Y'know what I just realized? You just freaked out about our
relationship.
Monica: Did not.
Chandler: Yes you did! Admit it! You freaked out!
Monica: Okay, I freaked out a little.
Chandler: Little?! You freaked out big time! Okay? And I fixed it! We have
switched places! I am the relationship and king and you are the crazy, irrational
screw up! (Does a dance of joy.) (Monica glares at him.) And now we're back.
Rachel: (laughs) I cannot believe Ross is buying this!
Monica: Thank God! I can't watch him anymore!
Chandler: (entering) You guys ready fore the movies?
Rachel: Yeah! Oh by the way, thank you for loaning us Pamela and Yasmine. 
Ross: (from his apartment) Man! They cannot get enough! (Makes like he's a robot
and waves at the cutouts.)