Gary: (To Phoebe) Would you like some more coffee, baby-doll?
Phoebe: I'm fine, thanks.
Chandler: (To Monica) Yeah, see, I can't pull of baby-doll can I?
Monica: No. I think we learned that from the sugarlips incident. I'm gonna get
some tea.
Chandler: Okay.
Chandler: Hiya doin' pumpkin?
Phoebe: Nope. (Chandler nods in agreement.)
Monica: So it looks like it's going really well for you two, huh?
Gary: I know, really well. In fact, I'm gonna ask Phoebe to move in with me.
Monica: (shocked) Oh my God!
Gary: What do you, what do you think?
Monica: I think that is so great! When are you gonna ask her?
Gary: Tonight, but don't say anything. Okay?
Gary: (To Phoebe) I'll see you after work sweetie. (Kisses her.)
Phoebe: Okay. Bye! 
Phoebe: So, what movie should we see?
Monica: (sitting down) Gary's gonna ask you to move in with him!!
Phoebe: What?! Really?!
Monica: He just told me at the counter. He made me promise not to tell, but I
couldn't hold it in any longer!
Phoebe: I can't believe this!
Chandler: (terrified) Right, because it's fast. Because, it's so fast. It's
fast!
Monica: Relax! It's Phoebe! Not you!
Chandler: Oh! Good for you Pheebs, way to go! (Breathes a sigh of relief)
Phoebe: No, but it is fast. Isn't it?
Monica: Ohhhh!
Phoebe: No, I like him a lot but I don't think I'm ready for this!
Chandler: So, what are you gonna do?
Chandler: Me?! Why me?
Chandler: I'll try, but I'm not sure what good it would do, y'know? Because I'm
a lot less afraid of commitment than I used to be.
Monica: That is so sweet! (She kisses him and turns to add some sugar to her
tea.)
Chandler: (To Phoebe, behind Monica's back) Still terrified, I'll take care of
it. No problem. (When Monica turns back he smiles and kisses her, when she turns away he
nods that he'll do it to Phoebe.)
Joey: Hey Ross, is uh, is Staten Island really an island?
Ross: Uh-huh, that's why they call it Staten Island.
Joey: Ohhh. I thought it was like Long Island.
Ross: (he catches the ball and pauses, staring at Joey in disbelief) Also an
island.
Joey: Hey, what time is it?
Ross: (looks at his watch) 2:17.
Joey: Wow! You realize that we've been throwing this ball, without dropping it,
for like an hour?
Ross: Are you serious?!
Joey: Yeah. I realized it about a half-hour ago but I didn't want to say
anything 'cause I didn't want to jinx it.
Ross: Wow! We are pretty good at this! Hey! We totally forgot about lunch!
Joey: Oh, I-I, I think that's the first time I ever missed a meal! (Checks his
pants.) Yeah, my pants are a little loose!
Joey: Hey!
Rachel: Is Monica here?
Rachel: All right listen umm, I just bought something I'm not sure she's gonna
like it, and it's gonna seem a little crazy, but this is something that I wanted since I
was a little girl.
Ross: You bought Shawn Cassidy!
Rachel: Noo! I wish! Okay, you ready? 
Rachel: Okay! (She goes and gets her surprise and when she returns with it, Ross
stares in shock.) Check it out!
Ross: What-what is it?!
Joey: What the hell is that?!!
Rachel: It's a, it's a cat!
Joey: That, is not a cat! {I have to agree with Joey on this one.}
Rachel: Yes it is!
Ross: Why is it inside out?!
Rachel: Excuse me! But this is a purebred, show-quality Sphinx cat!
Ross: How much did you pay for that?
Rachel: Well, it was a little extravagant, but I a pretty good deal.
Ross: Yeah? How much?
Rachel: A thousand bucks.
Ross: ON A CAT??!!!!
Joey: It's not a cat!
Rachel: All right listen ball boys! My grandmother had one of these when I was a
little girl and it was the sweetest thing! I mean it was so cute, it would sit in my lap
and purr all day long, and I would drag a shoestring on the ground and he would chase it!
Ross: Free cats do that too, y'know. {Which reminds me, if I might get a little
political here, support your local animal shelter. Pet shops are not the place to
buy dogs and cats from, you get a much better deal from the shelter, plus they probably
won't die on you in a week and a half. If you want a leash, go to the pet shop. If you
want the dog for that leash, go to the shelter and save it's life. Now back to regularly
scheduled programming.}
Joey: It's not a cat!
Rachel: Ugh! Look you guys, I'm really excited about this! Okay? I don't care
what you think! I'm gonna go set up a little litter box for Mrs. Whiskerson. (They both
glare at her.) Well, what am I gonna call her? Fluffy?!
Ross: (To Joey) Hey, you wanna get something to eat or uh, do you wanna see how
long we can throw this ball back and forth? Huh?
Joey: Uhh, the ball thing.
Ross: Yeah?
Joey: Hey Ross, wouldn't it be great if we could go two straight hours without
dropping it?!
Ross: Uhh, yeah it would! Let's do it!
Joey: Okay!
Joey: (catches the ball) Uh-oh.
Ross: What?
Joey: I have to pee. And Rachel's in the bathroom!
Joey: Man, I didn't think we were gonna make it!
Ross: I know! (Looks at the ball in his hands.) Don't switch hands, okay?
Chandler: Hey ladies! What are you in here for? (Laughs at his joke.)
Gary: Hey Chandler, what are you doing here?
Chandler: Gary, I'm here to report a crime.
Gary: Yeah?
Chandler: It is a crime that you and I don't spend more time together.
Gary: (laughs, then suddenly serious) What's up?
Chandler: Well, I heard that you thinking about asking Phoebe to move in with
you and I thought maybe, we should have a talk. Man to uh, me.
Gary: Sure. Okay.
Chandler: Uh, are you crazy? Are you insane? If you live with Phoebe, you two
are gonna be y'know, live-living together!
Gary: Yeah, I-I considered that. I just know it would make me happy.
Chandler: You mean scared.
Gary: No, I mean happy.
Chandler: Scared? Happy?
Gary: Chandler, what-what are you doing?
Chandler: I am trying to open your eyes, my man! Don't you see, if you lived
with Phoebe she's always gonna be there. You're gonna get home, she's there. You go to
bed, she's there. You wake up and oh yes, she's there!
Gary: I know! I can't wait!
Chandler: Were you're parents happy, or something?
Chandler: Wow, y'know when you say it, it doesn't sound so scary.
Gary: So you know what I'm talking about, right?
Chandler: Yeah, I think I do! Y'know what? You move in with her! You move in
with her right now! Maybe I should in with Monica!
Gary: No, it's too soon for you guys.
Chandler: (pause) Yeah, you're right about that.
Joey: Maybe this should be more of a quiet game.
Monica: (entering) Hey guys!
Joey: Hi!
Monica: Joey, I left my watch on the counter last night. (Goes to the counter)
It was right here, where is it?
Joey: I don't know.
Monica: All right, come on, I'm-I'm late for work!
Ross: How do you know? You don't have a watch.
Monica: Guys, could you please just stop throwing the ball for one minute and
just help me find it!
Monica: What?!
Ross: Monica, whatever you do, do not drop that ball!
Ross: 2 hours, 27 minutes.
Monica: Really?!
Monica: (on phone, faking she's sick) I-I'm not gonna be able to make it into
work today, I don't feel very good. (Joey makes a high throw and Monica has to catch it
way over her head.) (Not sounding sick) Yes!! (Realizes what she just did.) (Sounding sick
again) Wow! Uh, for a second there I thought I was really better, but I'm not. (Hangs up
and keeps throwing the ball.)
Ross: Hey Rach!
Rachel: Hey.
Ross: Check it out! Almost 3 hours without droppin' it!
Rachel: Oh, wow! Congratulations, that's quite a waste of time.
Monica: Rach?
Rachel: Yeah?
Monica: You have scratches all over you, what happened? (Rachel's arms are
covered with scratches.)
Rachel: Well, it's my cat.
Monica: (shocked) What?!
Rachel: Oh yeah, I got a cat.
Monica: I don't want a cat!
Joey: Oh, don't worry, it's not a cat.
Ross: Yeah.
Rachel: You guys this cat is nothing like my grandmother's cat. I mean,
it's not sweet, it's not cute, I even dragged that little string on the ground, and it
just flipped out and scratched the hell out of me. And I swear, I know this sounds crazy,
but every time this cat hisses at me I know it's saying, "Rachel!"
Ross: Doesn't sound as crazy as paying a thousand dollars for a cat.
Monica: (To Rachel) What?! You paid a thousand dollars for a cat when you owe me
300!!
Rachel: Well, I was gonna let you play with it.
Chandler: Hi!
Phoebe: Hmm, did you talk to Gary about the moving in thing?
Chandler: Yes I did, and I think you should do it.
Phoebe: What?!
Chandler: He's a great guy, y'know? And he loves you a lot, you are a very lucky
lady.
Phoebe: You are useless! Freaking out about commitment is the one thing
you can do! The one thing! And you can't even do that right! God!
Phoebe: Ohh!! God! (Gary enters and she sees him) Ooh! (To Chandler) Get out of
here, good for nothing.
Gary: Hey Chandler.
Chandler: Hey Gar!
Gary: (To Phoebe) Hi sweetie. (Kisses her.) Hi, can I talk to you for a second?
Phoebe: Yeah! Okay. (They move to the couch.)
Gary: You look very pretty today.
Phoebe: Thanks! Okay. (They sit down.)
Gary: Here's the thing.
Phoebe: Yeah?
Gary: Y'know I really want to move this relationship forward.
Phoebe: Uh-hmm.
Gary: Because if you're not moving forward, y'know you're just moving backwards.
Phoebe: No that's not true. If you're not moving forward, you're just staying
still. And staying still is good. Watch this. (She stays still for a brief second.) 
Gary: Phoebe?
Phoebe: Yeah?
Gary: I want you to move in with me.
Phoebe: That is so sweet. But don't you think it's a little too soon? I mean
there's so much we don't know about each other.
Gary: (disappointed) Oh. Oh-oh-okay, I get it.
Gary: (disappointed more) Uh-huh.
Gary: (on the verge of tears) Yeah.
Phoebe: Which is why my answer is yes!
Gary: (suddenly happy) Really?!
Ross: (catching the ball) Monica! Stop throwing it so hard! We're on the same
team!
Chandler: Four hours? You guys have been doing this for four hours?
Joey: That's right baby.
Chandler: All right, let me in. (He jumps off of the counter to join in the
game.)
Monica: (jumping in front of him) No-no! Don't do it! Don't!
Chandler: What?
Monica: He's a dropper!
Joey: Oh yeah, that's right!
Chandler: I'm not a dropper!
Ross: It's really a uh-uh three person game, y'know?
Chandler: It's throwing and catching!
Ross: All right. (He gently tosses the ball to Chandler who catches it.)
Chandler: Oh! Oh! That's so hard. (Starts to juggle the ball, but loses control
and almost drops it and hands it to Monica.)
Joey: Whoa-whoa you guys, it's not a cat!
Rachel: (she's wearing an oven mitt to protect her hand) I give up you guys, I
don't know what I'm going to do with this thing!
Ross: Baking it didn't help, huh?
Monica: So, why don't you just take it back to where you got it?
Rachel: I tried! They won't take her back.
Chandler: Maybe that's because she's a minion of the anti-Christ.
Monica: Rach, why won't they take it back?
Rachel: Well, they said would but they would only give me store credit. I mean,
what am I going to do, get a thousand regular cats?
Monica: Look, if you want you can keep it at our place until you find out what
to do with it.
Rachel: No Mon that's not the point. I'm out a thousand dollars, I'm all
scratched up, and I'm stuck with this stupid cat that looks like a hand! (Storms out.)
Monica: Oh my God, the cat's made my eyes water! Don't-don't throw it to me! My
vision's been compromised!! (Quickly grabs a tissue to wipe her eyes.) Oh God! Okay. Okay.
It's okay. Man, that was close.
Chandler: Yeah, you almost overreacted to something.
All: Hey!
Gary: We have great news!
Phoebe: We're moving in together! Isn't it great! Yay!
All: Congratulations! Congrats!
Phoebe: I know, I'm so excited!
Gary: So am I!
Phoebe: Well, you're not more excited than I am! No way! I'm the most
excited!
Gary: Okay, I'll see you at the station later.
Phoebe: Okay, yeah, I'll see you later! Don't forget about the moving in!
Gary: All right.
Monica: So you're moving in with him. What happened?
Phoebe: I couldn't tell him no. He got so sad. Maybe it'll be all right. I do
really like him a lot and probably do it eventually anyway and plus, think of all the
money I'll save on stamps.
Monica: Why, do you write him a lot?
Phoebe: No, I just heard when people live together, they split the cost of
stamps. Don't they?
All: Yeah! That's right. Yeah-yeah! Yeah!
Phoebe: Oh, I'm sorry, the oven mitts really freaked me out.
Gary: Hey, honey! Okay, so did you find any apartments? Anything in Brooklyn
Heights?
Phoebe: No, nothing.
Gary: Oh really?
Phoebe: Yeah.
Gary: Nothing at all?
Phoebe: No, as soon as something opens up we'll move right in. Unless it doesn't
have a pool, I need a pool. (Turns away from him.)
Gary: Phoebe, can I talk to you for a second?
Phoebe: Uh-huh!
Gary: Take a seat. You okay? You feeling all right? (Closes the door and takes
off his coat.)
Phoebe: (sits down) Yeah, I feel great. 'Cause we're moving in together.
Gary: So you uh, you checked the paper for listings in Brooklyn Heights, right?
You-you checked the Post?
Phoebe: Yeah, uh-huh, there was nothing. (Pause) Can I get some water?
Gary: In a minute. You-you checked today's Post?
Phoebe: Umm, yeah! Today's.
Gary: 'Cause uh, this is today's Post (produces one from the other chair)
and uh, these are the listings I found. (Points) Brooklyn Heights, two bedroom. (Points)
Brooklyn Heights, one bedroom. (Points) Brooklyn Heights, (points) Brooklyn Heights,
(points) Brooklyn Heights!
Phoebe: (looks at the paper) Are these for rent! I thought people were just
bragging!
Gary: Let me tell you what I think might be going on. (Phoebe looks down in
shame.) No-no-no, don't look at the table. Look at me. (Points to his eyes and she does
so) Okay, I think somebody asked someone to move in with them. And I think someone said,
"Yes" but now she's having doubts because things are moving to fast for someone.
Does that sound at all possible to you?
Phoebe: Yes. Yes! Fine! I am someone! You want me to say it? I have
doubts! (Pause) I'm sorry! (Puts her head down.)
Phoebe: Yeah?
Gary: Phoebe, it's okay that you feel this way. I mean it is soon. And
there's a lot of things we don't know about each other, and I just figure that everything
I really like. And the things I don't know, I get to learn about at someplace with both
our names on the mailbox.
Phoebe: That's so sweet.
Phoebe: Living with you would make me happy.
Gary: Phoebe, you don't have to say that.
Phoebe: No, I really wanna live with you! I wanna move in with you!
Gary: Are you sure?
Phoebe: Yes. Definitely! Yes! Let's live in an apartment that we both live in!
(Hugs him.) 
Gary: Oh that's great!
Phoebe: Oh wait, one sec. One sec. (Goes to the mirror) Hey you! Behind the
glass! Who are you looking at! I've always wanted to say that when I was in one of these
rooms, (sees the look on his face) which was never!
Rachel: Show cat! Quality show cat! Show cat! (A woman approaches.)
Rachel: It's not a baby! It's a cat!
Rachel: Well, so then what are you doing to me? Okay? Just get out of here! All
right? Move on!
Rachel: Yes! Thank you! Exactly! You want it?
Rachel: Oh, terrific! That'll be $2,000.
Rachel: Okay, a thousand.
Rachel: Well, I do, but you're just gonna have to actually look at this as more
of an investment than a cat.
Rachel: (makes some unintelligible sound to stop her from leaving) Obviously you
know how to haggle, so I'm not gonna try and take you on. Okay? So $800 and I don't call
the cops because you're robbing me blind! Blind! (Covers her eyes) Just take cat, leave
the money, and run away! Run away! (Uncovers her eyes and sees that the woman has fled)
Damnit! (To the cat) Cat, can't you at least smile or something?! (The cat hisses at her
again, it sounds like Rachel) Okay, did anybody just hear that? Anybody?
Ross: I'm starving! 
Monica: Come on guys! Suck it up! We're closing in on ten hours! It's gut-check
time!
Joey: I don't know who made you the boss? All right? We (Ross and him) invented
this game!
Monica: Please! I made this game what it is.
Chandler: Not fun anymore?
Ross: I'm still hungry! 
Monica: All right, there's some pizza at my place, we can all eat with one hand
right? Are you with me?
Ross: I am!
Monica: All right! Let's go! (Runs to the door.) Let's go Team Monica! (The guys
all stop and stare at her) All right, we can work out the name later.
Monica: Rachel! What is your cat doing in one of my bowls!
Rachel: It's not! I'm defrosting a chicken. (Pause) Oh, I uh sold Mrs.
Whiskerson.
Ross: Oh, thank God!
Joey: Did you get your money back?
Rachel: Yeah, 15 hundred dollars.
Monica: Wow! You made a profit!
Gunther: (entering with the cat) I just came for the red-velvet pillow.
Rachel: Oh yeah, there you go. (Hands over the pillow.)
Gunther: Thanks Rachel. And-and don't forget you-you can come visit her anytime
you want.
Rachel: Oh good, great! I'll-I'll keep that in mind. (Turns and walks away.)
Gunther: (To Ross) Hey! So what is this? Some kind of snake or something?
Gary: I really like waking up with you.
Phoebe: I like waking up with you too. (Looks out the window) Oh! It's such a
beautiful morning. (Some birds are singing outside the window) Oh, I can stay here all
day.
Gary: That would be great!
Gary: Wait, just a second. 
Phoebe: Okay. (He grabs his gun and shoots the bird.) Oh! Oh no.
Monica: All right! Come on Monica! Look alive! Come on, look alive!
Phoebe: (entering) Oh good, you're all up.
Rachel: Phoebe! It's 6 o'clock in the morning! Why aren't you at Gary's?
Phoebe: Oh yeah, that's over.
All: What?!
Chandler: Come on! Gary's such a great guy! Whatever the problem is, you can
work it out!
Phoebe: He shot a bird!
Chandler: Oh that is over!
All: That's terrible! I'm sorry!
Rachel: Phoebe, are you okay?
Phoebe: Yeah. Yeah, I'll be alright.
Joey: Oh hey, here Pheebs. (He throws her the ball.)
Phoebe: (catches it) Nah, I don't feel like playing. (She sets the ball down on
the table and everyone gasps.)
Monica: It's okay. It's okay. Just pretend that it didn't happen! Okay? No one
needs to know! I mean, Phoebe's not an official ballplayer! I mean, only official
ballplayers can drop the ball!
All: All right. Okay. I'm starving! (They all get up, thus officially ending the
game.)
Rachel: Phoebe, honey, wanna get some breakfast?
Phoebe: Yeah!
Monica: Okay! Okay, let's race! First one there wins! Ha-ha! (Runs out the door
and everyone watches her leave.)
Chandler: You guys wanna eat here?
All: Yeah! As long as we're here!
Joey: Man that was great! Huh? Can you believe how long we threw that ball
around?
Rachel: Yeah, it is amazing it lasted that long.
Ross: I know. My arm is killing me.
Rachel: No, I meant with the dropper over here. (Points at Chandler.)
Chandler: Y'know, how did I get this reputation as a dropper? Okay? I'm anything
but a dropper. (We see various scenes of him dropping a football, a mug of coffee, the
phone, an apple, a Frisbee, a record, and the final scene has a ball bouncing off of his
chest. I'm not going to describe them, you'll have to see them.)