Chandler: Sydney Portier? Hehheh.
Chandler: What? What? Why?!
Ross: (only half-paying attention) Yes, of course they like you!
Chandler: (annoyed) Do you know why?
Chandler: This is great, another Thanksgiving with nothing to give thanks for.
Chandler: Maybe I could give thanks by taking my Playstation over to my
new apartment.
Chandler: [mocks that last comment].
Chandler: Hey.
Janine: Hey guys!
Janine: Well, me and my dancer friends are thinking of doing Thanksgiving
uptown. I thought you guys might like to come.
Ross: For real?
Joey: Ye-ye, we go to yours!
Janine: (not sure of what to make of that) Okay.
Phoebe: Hey!
All: Hey!
Rachel: Hey! Hey, Pheebs, check it out. Yeah, for my desert, I have chosen to
make a traditional English truffle!
Monica: Nothing.
Rachel: (worried) Nothing?
Monica: No, sweetie, I-I trust you.
All: Hey!
Joey: Oh, ooh the food smells great, Mon!
Ross: And the place looks so nice!
Joey: Yeah, hey hey, Happy Thanksgiving everybody!
Ross: Happy Thanksgiving!
The Girls: Happy Thanksgiving!
Joey: Well, this has been great!
Ross: See ya!
Monica: Oh, Janine, the really hot dancer girl?
Phoebe: And who else is going to be there?
Joey: Uh, some of her friends, yeah.
Rachel: Her dancer friends?
Ross: (to Joey) Dude, we were good!
Phoebe: Yeah, and-and leaving us to go see hot dancer girls is not very
Thanksgivingy.
Joey: Yeah, yeah, and the Indians taught the Pilgrims what it meant to be hot in
the new world!
All: Hi!
Chandler: Mr. and Mrs. Geller, you look wonderful, it is great to have you hear,
let us take off your coats!
Chandler: Whoa, snowing out there?
Monica: Dad, Chandler was just laughing at your joke.
Phoebe: Rach, Rach, I just remembered. I had a dream about Mr. Geller last
night.
Rachel: Really?!
Ross: Yeah, yeah, what is it?
Ross: W-What was the one right before bananas?
Joey: Y-sure!
Ross: Beef in a dessert?! I- no no no, there is no way!
Joey: I know, and only one layer of jam?! What is up with that?
Ross: Oh my God, the pages are stuck together!
Joey: (turning to Chandler in a scolding tone) Chandler!
Joey: Just let her serve the beef-custard thing?
Joey: (shrugging his shoulders to go along with it) Vomiting stories are
funny...
Rachel: Joey, God, your apartment is like a hundred degrees!
Joey: Did-did it make you wanna walk around in your underwear?
Rachel: No!
Joey: (frustrated) Still not hot enough!
Phoebe: Rachel?
Rachel: Yeah?
Monica: Mom, uh, Chandler was just saying how beautiful your sweater is.
Chandler: (shocked) What?
Monica: (shocked) What?
Ross: (worried) Dude, I need to talk to you a sec.
Chandler: You do? Why?
Ross: Okay, remember, we were young. Hey, Spring break, sophomore year, I got
high in my bedroom and my parents walked in and smelled it and so I told them that you had
gotten stoned and jumped out the window.
Chandler: What?! Why did you do that?
Chandler: How could it not matter?!
Monica: Mom and dad just sent me in here to find out if you (points to Chandler)
were trying to get Ross stoned!
Chandler: Your parents caught Ross smoking pot in college and he blamed it on
me!
Ross: Alright, alright, now-now who should I say tricked me into doing it?
Phoebe: Monica, leave him alone!
Joey: Oh I am!
Ross: Okay, fine!
Joey: Ross! Can I talk to you for a second?
Joey: Okay, look, I think we have to tell Rachel she messed up her dessert.
Ross: Hey Rach, can I talk to you outside for a second?
Rachel: Okay...
Ross: So um...Thanksgiving. The holiday season is upon us, hm? 
Rachel: Yeah!
Ross: And um...You look nice today.
Ross: What?
Ross: (shocked) Eh?
Joey: (happily) Really?
Rachel: It sure is.
Phoebe: Wow. So then did you make it with beef or Eggplant?
Rachel: Beef.
Rachel: Alright, Monica, I want you to have the first taste.
Monica: Really?
Rachel: Oh oh oh, wait! You only got whipped cream in there! Ya gotta take a
bite with all the layers!
Monica: Okay.
Rachel: Op! Wait, you dropped a pea.
Rachel: Well?
Rachel: Really? How good? 
All: (faking enjoyment) Mmm.
Rachel: Okay, now what was that all about? Is it-does it not taste good? Let me
try it.
Ross: It tastes like feet!
Joey: I like it.
Ross: Are you kidding?
Rachel: ...So a bird just grabbed it, and then tried to fly away with it and,
and then just dropped it on the street?
Phoebe: Rachel, come here. (Rachel walks over to Phoebe. Chandler sits down on
the lounge-chair.) Okay, I was just starting to take my Thanksgiving nap, and I had
another dream about Jack.
Rachel: Oh, Phoebe, do I wanna hear this?
Rachel: (humoring Phoebe) Oh my God, he dream-cheated on you!
Phoebe: Yeah, but then Jacques Cousteau came and he kicked his ass for betraying
me! It was soo cool! Then, he took me diving and he introduced me to his pet seahorse,
who, by the way, was totally coming on to me, and please, that is not gonna happen.
Ross: Oh yeah, about telling Mom and Dad, I was thinking about maybe writing a
letter.
Ross: Wha-what?
Monica: (out loud, to her parents) Mom! Dad! Ross smoked pot in college!
Ross: Monica and Chandler are living together!
Monica: Ross married Rachel in Vegas! And got divorced! Again!!!!
Phoebe: (joining in) I love Jacques Cousteau!
Joey: (pounding the table) I wanna gooooooo!
Ross: I-I uh, I got tricked into all those things!
Chandler: Thank you!
Joey: Nope, got it and I got yours (Pointing to Jack) too. 