Chandler: That is funny. It was also funny when I made it up.
Ross: What?
Chandler: I made that joke up.
Ross: What?
Chandler: Monica, you remember me telling you that joke, right?
Monica: No.
Chandler: Seriously?
Monica: Well, you tell a lot of jokes!
Chandler: Yeah, I guess.
Joey: (entering) Hey guys.
Chandler: (jumping up from his chair) Hey, Joey, Playboy
printed my joke.
Joey: Whoa-whoa-whoa. Jokes? You guys know they have naked chicks in there,
right?
Chandler: Dude, you have got to turn on Behind the Music. The band Heart
is having a really tough time, and I think they may break up.
Chandler: What? No, I want to watch this. (He turns on the television and the
screen is completely covered in snow). Did your cable go out?
Chandler: Joey, why is your cable out?
Chandler: If you need money, will you please-please just let me loan you some
money?
Joey: No, Chandler. Look, forget about it, okay? Look, I know things have been a
little tight since Janine moved out. Oh, was she hot. 
Chandler: Whoa ho.
Joey: I know! Yeah, but, look I can handle it. All right? Look, I can listen to
the radio, huh? And Ross gave me this great book (holds up the Playboy magazine).
Chandler: (picks up the phone) All right, you want to see if the joke stealer
will let us watch the show at his place?
Joey: Sure.
Chandler: (with phone to ear, obviously hearing no dial tone) Paid your phone
bill?
Joey: Not so much.
Phoebe: (entering) Hey.
Phoebe: Wh-wh-what are you doing?
Rachel: We are looking at a Playboy.
Phoebe: Oh, I want to look too! (She runs over and sits down and checks out a
picture). Yikes!
Phoebe: Oh, yeah. Aw, remember the days when you used to go out to the barn,
lift up your shirt, and bend over?
Monica: Me neither.
Phoebe: Rachel.
Monica: What?!
Joey: You forget how many great songs Heart had.
Chandler: Yeah.
Ross: You know, Barracuda was the first song I learned to play on the keyboard.
Chandler: So, you heard it, you repeated it, so that must mean you wrote it.
Chandler: (stops laughing, to Ross) You are not allowed to laugh at my joke.
Chandler: So, you stole my joke, and you stole my money.
Chandler: Well, she is going to know that you stole the joke.
Ross: Oh, what are you going to do, follow me down there?
Chandler: Yeah!
Chandler: Okay (he goes to sit down).
Gunther: (handing Joey the bill) Here you go.
Gunther: Well, if you want, you can work here.
Joey: What?!
Gunther: Flexible hours.
Joey: Maybe I could be a waiter. Could I use the phone?
Monica: (visibly upset) She picked Rachel. I mean, she tried to back out of it,
but it was obvious. She picked Rachel.
Chandler: (visibly upset) He took my joke, he took it. 
Chandler: Yeah!
Chandler: Picking Rachel.
Joey: (sheepishly) I finished my book. (Chandler and Monica slowly retreat back
to bed.)
Monica: (entering) Hey, you guys.
Rachel: Monica, what are you doing?
Phoebe: I guess it was kinda funny.
Rachel: (To Monica) Well, people are different.
Monica: (to Phoebe) You start working on that list. (She grabs her
coat and leaves, too.)
Rachel: I cannot believe her.
Monica: I know. Where do you wanna go eat?
Rachel: Oh, oh, I love that Japanese place.
Rachel: All right, wherever you wanna go is cool.
Monica: All right.
Ross: (showing the Playboy magazine to Gunther) Oh, hey, Gunther, check this
out.
Gunther: Yeah, that-that Chandler cracks me up. 
Rachel: No.
Monica: No, thank you.
Joey: You got it.
Monica: Joey, what are you doing?
Monica: Joey, do you work here?
Joey: No.
Customer: Hey, waiter.
Joey: Yeah?
Rachel: Come on, Joey, I did it and it was fine.
Ross: Yeah, why would it be weird? Hey, Joey, can I get some coffee?
Rachel: Well, you know what? This is great. Finally, I have someone I can pass
on my wisdom too. Let me tell you about a couple of things I learned while working at the
coffeehouse. First of all, the customer is always right. (Joey nods.) A smile goes a long
way. (Joey smiles) And if anyone is ever rude to you? Sneeze muffin.
Ross: Joey, seriously, can I get my coffee?
Rachel: Phoebe. We would like to talk to you for a second.
Phoebe: Okay.
Monica: So, maybe I am a little high maintenance. And maybe Rachel is a little
bit of a pushover. But you know what we decided you are?
Rachel: Yes, we are very sorry to tell you this, but you, Phoebe, are flaky.
Monica: Hah!
Phoebe: That true, I am flaky.
Phoebe: Yeah, totally.
Rachel: Yeah, and I am okay with being a pushover.
Monica: I am not high maintenance!
Rachel: I am not a pushover!
Phoebe: Who said you were?
Joey: Hey, Gunther. Can you uh, can you cover for me? I just got an audition.
Patron: Oh, excuse me.
Patron: I believed you were saving this seat for someone.
Patron: For what?
Joey: Exactly! All right, everybody, listen up. The coffeehouse is going to be
closed for about an hour. 
Customers: Huh? What?
Ross: Yeah!
Chandler: Yeah!
Ross: Hey Mon.
Chandler: Mon, get out here!
Ross: Monica! (She appears, not sure why she was summoned.)
Chandler: Okay, okay. You have to help us decide whose joke this is.
Monica: Why do I have to decide?
Ross: Yeah.
Monica: Okay, Chandler, you go first.
Chandler: Okay, I thought of the joke two months ago at lunch with Steve.
Monica: Oh, wait, is he the guy I met at Christmas?
Chandler: Can I finish my story?!
Monica: Do you want me to pick you?!
Ross: See, I would never snap at you like that.
Monica: Continue.
Chandler: Is not.
Monica: Hi, Chandler. There you are.
Chandler: Hi, oh hi.
Monica: Wait, wait, he came up with that himself. Tell them, Chandler.
Monica: Look, I am not high maintenance. I am not. Chandler!
Monica: Ahhh! You are on my list.
Phoebe: Wow! That is a bad audition.
Rachel: How-how did you lose your job here?
Joey: Well, I had the audition but Gunther said I had to stay here and be in
charge so he could go get his hair dyed. So, I went anyway, and then he fired me.
Joey: Yeah, what are ya gonna do?
Gunther: Okay.
Rachel: What?
Gunther: He can have his job back.
Phoebe: Hey, I never got to hear who you guys would pick to be your girlfriend.
Monica: I pick you, Phoebe.
Rachel: Oh, yeah. Definitely you, Pheebs.
Phoebe: Yeah, well, I kinda thought.
Chandler: Hey.
Rachel: Hey. Oh, I have a question. If-if-if one of you had to pick one of the
other two guys to go out with, who would you pick?
Ross: No way. 