Joey: Hey!
Ross: Hi!
Joey: Who wants French toast?
Joey: Good, me too. (Tosses him the loaf.) Eggs and milk are in the fridge.
Thanks.
Monica: (entering from her room) Oww!
Phoebe: It starts?
Monica: Okay! (Runs off.)
Chandler: (incredulous) Already?!
Chandler: Oh, I got some thoughts on that.
Ross: Take it from me, as the groom all you have to do is show up and try to say
the right name.
Monica: (returning) Okay! (Sets down a huge 3" 3-ring binder on the table.)
Phoebe: That is so smart! (To Chandler, under her breath) Break it off. Break it
off now.
Phoebe: Hey! Ross!
Ross: Phoebe, oh my God! Wh-wh-what are you doing here?
Ross: Phoebe, you said it was urgent!
Ross: Do you realize I have a classroom full of students?
Rachel: Okay.
Monica: All right umm, a string quartet for the procession.
Rachel: Aw.
Monica: A jazz trio for cocktails. The Bay City Rollers for dancing.
Wait, that was from my sixth grade wedding.
Chandler: Why are you napping over here instead of over at your place?
Rachel: What?! The duck?! What the hell did the damn duck do now?!
Joey: Uh, well he did not get sick somewhere in there and it was
immediately found and properly cleaned up!
Chandler: Now, do I get to look at this book or is it just for people who are
actually involved in the wedding?
Monica: Of course you can look at it! Yeah, I want your opinion too!
Chandler: Okay.
Monica: Here you go! What do you think about centerpieces?
Chandler: Centerpieces!
Monica: Yeah! Roses or Lilies? (Holds up a picture of each.)
Chandler: Uh-huh!
Rachel: Joey, there is a perfectly good couch across the hall!
Joey: Yes it is perfectly good, and it is not one of the places the duck
got sick!
Rachel: What?!
Rachel: Now Joey, what did the duck do?!
Phoebe: Oh Ross, hi.
Ross: Phoebe, what are you doing?
Ross: Phoebe!
Ross: And they knew about it?
Phoebe: (pause as she considers it) Okay, well Ross, what is this really about?
Ross: Look, this is my home and I want to be able to come and go whenever I
want!
Rachel: No.
Joey: Huh. What if I was sweeping a chimney?
Rachel: Joey, did you  eat my face cream?
Rachel: Joey, (nervously) where did you learn that word?
Joey: Where do you think, (pause) Zelda?
Rachel: (gasps) You found my book?!
Joey: Yeah I did!
Rachel: Joey, what-what are you doing going into my bedroom?!
Joey: You got porn!
Ross: Hello.
Woman: Hi, is uh Phoebe here?
Woman: Ohh great.
Ross: Can I, can I help you with something?
Ross: (deadpan) Yes I am.
Chandler: Oh yeah, I should probably call them.
Chandler: What a sweet story.
Monica: You bought the beach house when I was 23!
Monica: What about when I started dating Chandler?
Chandler: Clearly I did not start drinking enough at the start of the meal.
(Starts to make up for lost time and takes a big swig of his drink.)
Rachel: Well what happened at dinner?
Monica: My parents spent the money for our wedding!
Phoebe: (gasps) My God! What did you order?!
Rachel: Do you even understand what off the rack means?!
Chandler: Well, I have some.
Monica: How much?
Monica: Whoa!!! Are you kidding me?!
Rachel: Well what?! How-how much is it?!
Rachel: Ohh! (Whispers.) Really?!
Monica: (To Chandler) How great are you, you little saver?! I mean, the-the
amount you have is exactly the budget of my dream wedding!
Rachel: (starting to cry) Ohh, you guys are so made for each other.
Phoebe: (reading the slip of paper) Wow! (In a sultry voice) Hello, Mr.
Chandler.
Monica: This is the most special day of our lives.
Chandler: Look, I understand, but I have to put my foot down. Okay? The answer
is no.
Chandler: Yes, I am!
Phoebe: Wow, money and a firm hand. Finally a Chandler I can get on board with.
Joey: Hey Rach.
Rachel: (quietly) Joey.
Joey: Hey Rach, do you smell smoke?
Rachel: Uh-huh, I get it, smoke, chimney, chimney sweep, very funny, ha-ha.
Ross: (sitting down) Hey, what are you guys, what are you guys talking about?
Rachel: Nothing!
Ross: So I guess you bought that book after we broke up huh?
Rachel: Uh-huh, yeah I did, because I wore out my first copy when I was with
you. (Exits.)
Phoebe: (entering) Ross! How could you do that to an old man?!
Phoebe: My massage client, Arthur? His daughter called and said that some guy
that worked for me gave him a really weird massage this afternoon.
Ross: (incredulous) I gave him an extremely professional massage!
Phoebe: He said you poked at him with wooden spoons.
Joey: Dude, what are you massaging an old man for?
Ross: His daughter was hot.
Joey: Gotcha.
Monica: Hey.
Chandler: Hey.
Chandler: Ehh.
Monica: Eh, you work for that.
Monica: You do?!
Monica: You thought about that?
Chandler: Yeah.
Monica: How many kids were we gonna have?
Chandler: Uh, four, a boy, twin girls and another boy.
Monica: What else did you think about?
Chandler: Sure you do.
Monica: No, I want everything you just said. I want a marriage.
Chandler: You sure?
Monica: Uh-hmm.
Chandler: I love you so much.
Chandler: Oh yeah, totally!
Monica: Oh good.
Joey: Hello, Zelda.
Rachel: Who are you supposed to be?
Joey: The vicar!
Rachel: Do you even know what a vicar is?
Joey: Like a goalie, right?
Joey: Huh?
Joey: (nervously backing away) I-I-I-I did? (He puts a stool in front of her.)
Joey: This body? (He backs into the kitchen.)