Chandler: Hey, you guys!
Chandler: So, what do you think?
Ross: About what?
Rachel: Yeah, what?
Joey: What?
Chandler: I got glasses!
Ross: Are you sure?
Joey: Feminine.
Rachel: Yes!
Chandler: No!
Monica: Sweetie, I think the glasses look great. They make you look really sexy.
Chandler: Really?
Monica: Yeah!
Monica: Of course! (She mouths, "I have no idea," to the rest of the
gang.)
Phoebe: So what do you guys want for an engagement present?
Monica: Oh, I already have one. 
Phoebe: Not unless someone borrowed it and left it at the gynecologist.
Rachel: Yeah, and-and-and by someone, she means Joey.
Monica: Hey, I know what I want!
Chandler: What we want honey.
Phoebe: You mean the chocolate chip cookie recipe?
Monica: Uh-huh, yeah.
Phoebe: You mean the one that my grandmother made me swear on her deathbed that
I would never let out of our family?
Chandler: Dying people say the craziest things.
Monica: I wanted it for years! I was gonna make cookies for my children.
Joey: (entering) Ahoy!
Monica: Oh, so you finally took it out of the marina huh?
Joey: Why would I do that? It took three guys to get the thing in there!
Joey: You could?
Phoebe: Your own boat?
Rachel: What?! What?! He was trying to cheer me up! My pony was sick.
Monica: What?
Chandler: Nothing, I just like to go like this. (Does it again.)
Ross: (entering from the bathrooms) Hey Chandler, what are you doing tonight?
Chandler: Uh why, do you have a lecture?
Ross: No, why?
Ross: My dad wanted to know if you wanted to play racquetball with us.
Chandler: Well, did-did you correct him?
Ross: No, I-I thought it would be more fun this way.
Monica: This is so cool, maybe this is something you can do every week.
Ross: Or you can sit with him on the front porch and make sure no one steals the
trash cans. He does that every week too.
Monica: Oh, just so you know, you-you have to let him win.
Ross: Yeah.
Monica: He hates to lose.
Chandler: Does anybody know me?!
Phoebe: I just went to my old apartment to get you the-the cookie recipe and the
stupid fire burned it up!
Ross: Oh, we have to get you an engagement present?
Ross: No one got me an engagement present.
Phoebe: Okay, here I wish you health and happiness. (She hands Monica a cookie
in a plastic baggie.) 
Chandler: An old cookie?
Phoebe: See no-no, I made a batch and I froze it, and this is the only one left.
Phoebe: Why not?
Monica: No! Wait! I think I can figure out the recipe from this cookie! I do
stuff like this at work all the time.
Phoebe: Really?!
Monica: Yeah! I bet I can do it.
Chandler: Okay, we owe you a present.
Rachel: That is the Coast Guard. 
Joey: All right.
Joey: Uh, boat rope.
Rachel: Wrong! How do you get the mainsail up?
Joey:  Uh, rub it?
Rachel: No. What do you do if I say we are coming about?
Joey: And deaf!
Rachel: Okay, you just go on and make your little jokey-jokes, but if you do not
know what you are doing out at sea you will die at sea. Am I getting through to you
sailor?! (She punctuates each word by slapping him on the forehead.)
Joey: Yes.
Joey: I want to make a ship to shore call to Chandler.
Monica: All right, I definitely taste nutmeg.
Phoebe: You do?
Phoebe: That and arrogance.
Joey: (entering) Hey.
Monica: Hey! How was sailing?
Joey: (recoils in horror) Women are mean!!! (Storms out.)
Ross: (entering with Chandler) Hey.
Monica: Hey! How was it?
Chandler: I will tell the story! It was going great. I let him win. We
were bonding. He even said I could call him dad.
Ross: And what did he ask you not to call him?
Chandler: Guys?
Ross: Over here. (You can see Ross sitting at the far wall.)
Chandler: I know.
Monica: You gave my father a lap dance!
Chandler: Why do they put so much steam in there?!
Chandler: Why? Okay? Why? Wh-wh-why did that have to happen?
Ross: Now, I know you wanted to bond with my dad, but did you really have to
bond to that part?
Ross: Oh, but he will. He still tells the story how Monica tried to escape from
fat camp.
Ross: Then how did you get caught in the barbed wire?
Monica: I was trying to help out a squirrel.
Ross: You were trying to eat it!
Chandler: If that is your father calling to tell this story then the
marriage is off!
Rachel: (laughing) Yeah, and-and you better make sure he tips you this time.
Ross: (To Rachel) Hey are you getting Monica and Chandler an engagement present?
Ross: Thank you!
Joey: (entering) Hey.
Ross: Hey.
Rachel: Why not?
Rachel: What? I was just trying to teach you.
Joey: Well, lesson learned! Rachel is mean!
Ross: You have to respect the sea! (Storms off.)
Joey: Does a good teacher say, "Put down the beer pinhead!?"
Rachel: Well, does a good student drink seven beers during his first lesson?
Joey: Six and a half! You knocked that last one out of my hand! Remember?
Joey: Do you want me to learn?!
Monica: Okay. Man, I have not made this many cookies since I was in the
ninth grade.
Phoebe: Oh, what was that for? Like a bake sale?
Monica: No, just a Friday night.
Ross:  Oh, these are pretty good.
Phoebe: Yeah, but not as good as batch 17.
Ross: Which one was that?
Monica: The ones we had right after you almost threw up.
Joey:  Oh yeah.
Rachel: Right?
Joey: Nope.
Rachel: Okay, go to the left. (Joey goes starboard or sits on the right side of
the boat.) The left!
Joey: Huh?
Rachel: (yelling) Just sit over there!! (Points to the port side.)
Rachel: No! No-no, no-no-no, very quiet, said with love, no yelling.
Rachel: Joey, come on! We just went over this! (She does it instead.)
Rachel: (angrily) No! All right?! I did not see the bird! I did not
see the fish! I did not see the piece of Styrofoam that was shaped like Mike Tyson!
I did not, because I was trying to teach you how to sail a boat! Which
obviously is an impossible thing to do!
Joey: Why not?!
Joey: Well, hey I did learn.
Rachel: Really?
Joey: Yeah! Come on.
Rachel: Left.
Joey: Damnit!
Ross: Looking up?
Monica: What was her name?
Phoebe: Nesele Toulouse.
Monica: Nestle Tollhouse?!
Phoebe: Oh, you Americans always butcher the French language.
Monica: (grabbing a bag of Nestle Tollhouse chocolate chips) Phoebe, is this
the recipe? (Tosses her the bag.)
Phoebe: (reading the recipe on the back of the bag) Yes!! (Realizes.)
Oh.
Monica: I cannot believe that I just spent the last two days trying to figure
out the recipe and it was in my cupboard the whole time!
Chandler: What did you do when they found out?
Chandler: So I guess we wear swimsuits in here!
Rachel: Well Joey, I hate to admit it, your way of sailing is a lot more fun.
Joey: Just pull on it.
Joey: What else?
Rachel: (hands him one) Here you go.
Joey: Thank you.
Rachel: Oh wow! (She takes a bite, but holds the sandwich vertically so that the
stuff falls out.)
Joey: What are you doing?
Rachel:  Oh, sorry.
Rachel:  Oh whoops.