Joey: (to Monica) Hey, how much will you give me to eat this whole jar of
olives?
Joey: Done.
Phoebe: (entering) Hey. I need an atlas! I need an atlas!
Monica: Why? (in a motherlike tone) Do you have a report due?
Monica: Wow! You might just get the first Nobel prize in rubbing. So what
country is this guy from?
Phoebe: In your atlas!
Phoebe: Oh.
Monica: Oh, but wait I do have a globe.
Phoebe: Oh.
Monica: Hold on.
Phoebe: What is this?
Monica: Oh, no thanks.
Chandler: Okay listen, just give me anything I can make two of.
Joey: Yeah, are you just going down there to gawk at that hot girl with the
belly button ring again?
Chandler: Yeah! You wanna come?
Joey: Yeah!
Chandler: Come on Chloe! Finish up with your customer first. Come on Chloe! Come
on Chloe!!
Issac: (to Chandler and Joey) Can I help you?
Chandler: Uh-oh.
Chandler: (to Joey) Okay, that hurt us.
Chandler: Well ah, ........y'know.
Chloe: Hey, what are you guys doing tomorrow night?
Joey: Both of us? (points to Chandler and himself)
Chloe: Maybe. Does that scare ya?
Sergei: (something in Russian or Polish)
Mischa: (leaning in) Your eyes are very pretty.
Phoebe: (to Mischa) Thank you, very much! Oh! (to Sergei) Thank you!
Mischa: (leaning in) He would like to kiss you.
Phoebe: Oh.
Mischa: Oy!
Phoebe: (pointing to the globe) See there it is right there.
Phoebe: Yeah. But Sergei said it took the Germans six weeks to get all the way
across it.
Monica: So you had fun, huh?
Monica: No.
Ross: (entering) Hey.
Ross: What is ah, Rach in her room?
Monica: All right ah, Ross, this is the extent of my knowledge on the subject.
(holds up a notepad) Call Rachel.
Rachel: (answering her phone at work) Hello.
Ross: Hey, honey.
Rachel: Oh, hi.
Ross: What, do you, well umm, oh how about I come up there?
Monica: Yeah, well kinda cute, like really kinda cute, or kinda cute like your
friend Spackel Back Larry?
Chandler: Hey, y'know what, maybe we should get going. I mean what time did
Chloe say we should be there?
Joey: Uh, 10:30.
Chandler: What time is it now?
Joey: 4:30.
Joey: Yeah. Hey, remember when she brought up that thing about the three of us?
Chandler: Yes. Vividly.
Joey: She was kidding about that right?
Chandler: Yeah, I-I-I think so. (Pauses and thinks about it for a second) Yeah,
I-I think so...
Joey: God, that would be weird it that situation presented itself tonight, huh?
Chandler: Yeah. Yeah, I mean what, what would we do?
Chandler: She was kidding.
Joey: Yeah.
Chandler: She was.... But y'know what, just in case, maybe we should come up
with a set of ground rules.
Chandler: Yeah. Good call, nice one. Hold it!! Hold it! What if me eyes are
closed, and, and my hand is out there.... (holds his arm out and pretends to grab
something with his hand.)
Joey: Ah!! Okay! Eyes open at all times! Oh, hey, how do we decide where we...
(clears throat) y'know each would, (clears throat again) y'know (pause) be?
Chandler: Right. Right. Well ah, y'know we could flip for it.
Ross: (entering, carrying a basket) Hi!
Rachel: (startled) Oh!! My God, what are you doing here?
Rachel: Ross honey, this is very nice, but, but I-I got a crisis.
Ross: Yeah, but I got cous-cous!
Sophie: I love Mark. (to Ross) Do you know Mark?
Ross: Yeah!!
Rachel: Well, let me just check that with what I got here, all right see 038 is
not the number for (Ross starts making a lot of noise with a handheld pepper grinder) this
store, 038 is Atlanta. And I...(stops and looks at Ross)
Ross: (stopping grinding) Pepper?
Rachel: (angrily) None for me.
Ross: Okay sorry, whew.
Ross: What? (to Sophie) Sophie, does she have ten minutes?
Ross: Yeah, but wait...
Rachel: Good bye!
Ross: Hey.
Rachel: Hi. Look um, about what happened earlier...
Ross: No, hey, well, I-I completely understand. You were, you were stressed.
Rachel: (throws her stuff down) I was gonna give you a chance to apologise to
me.
Ross: For what? For letting you throw me out of your office?
Ross: Yeah, well excuse me for wanting to be with my girlfriend on our
anniversary, boy what an ass am I. 
Rachel: Wh, Ross what do you want from me? You want me, you want me to quit my
job so you can feel like you have a girlfriend?
Rachel: Just a job!
Ross: Yes.
Rachel: Well neither do I!
Ross: Is this about Mark?
Rachel: (shocked) Oh my God.
Rachel: No. (Ross is standing in the doorway.) A break from us.
Chloe: And the advances in collating in the past five years, I mean we just got
in an X-5000, y'know. The X-5000 makes the X-50 look like a T-71. 
Ross: Oh, hi Chloe.
Issac: Yo, Chloe, do you have a quarter for the condom machine?
Chloe: Oh! (storms off)
Chandler: So, what are you doing here? I thought tonight was your big
anniversary dinner.
Monica: Oh, and I can also speak a little French. Voulez-vous coucher avec moi
ce soir? (Mischa laughs) Why? What did I say?
Mischa: Well, you just asked if I wanted to go to bed with you tonight.
Monica: Oh my God! No wonder I get such great service at Cafe Maurice.
Phoebe: (laughing and banging her spoon on the table) Knock, knock, knock,
knock, hi. Um, could you please tell Sergei that um, I was fascinated by what Boutros
Boutros Gali said in the New York Times.
Mischa: (to Sergei) Boutros Boutros Gali.
Mischa: He says he was too.
Phoebe: Interesting.
Mischa: (to Monica) So I was wondering....
Phoebe: Okay, ah, before you get all talky again, umm, could you also please
tell Sergei that I really like his suit.
Mischa: (to Phoebe, very quickly) Eh, he said, thank you very much, he thinks
you look very pretty tonight, your hair, golden like the sun. (to Monica) So you're a
chef?
Mischa: Oh, really.
Phoebe: Monica, can I talk to you behind my menu, please. (Behind the menu) What
are you doing?
Monica: Well, I was having a conversation.
Monica: What do you want me to do? Just sit here silently while you three have a
conversation?
Phoebe: That would be great. Thank you.
Rachel: (jumping up to answer the phone) Hello!
Rachel: (disappointed) Oh.
Mark: What? Is it my breath?
Rachel: No! Sorry, I just thought you were somebody else. Hi!
Rachel: Yeah. Well, umm.....
Mark: Rach, are you okay?
Mark: You wanna talk, I mean I can come over?
Rachel: Oh. Okay, bye.
Joey: So what are you gonna do?
Ross: What can I do? One person wants to break-up, you break-up.
Chandler: Hey, no way! Come on, this is you guys, call her and work it out.
Chandler: Y'know that whole swimming thing is a myth.
Joey: Yeah, tell that to my Uncle Lenny.
Chandler: Why? What happened to him?
Rachel: Hello.
Mark: Hey, what do you want to drink?
Rachel: Nobody.
Mark: Is it okay if I finish the apple juice?
Ross: Is that Mark?
Rachel: Umm, honey, look he just came over to....
Ross: Yeah! Got it! (slams the phone down, and walks back to the bar.)
Chloe: Hey, dinosaur guy, look at you, so sad. Come dance.
Chloe: Oh, okay. (to the bartender) Hey, two beers. (sits down next to him) 
Mischa: (to Monica) And the vet said it was time. And so from half a world away,
while my Mother held the phone to his ear, I said good bye to my dog,. In seven languages.
Monica: Oh. (to Phoebe) Can I have a tissue?
Mischa: (to Phoebe) Sergei, would like to apologise for my behaviour tonight.
Phoebe: Well, tell him, apology accepted.
Mischa: (to Monica) I have just resigned my post. Would you care to accompany me
to the Rainbow Room? I have diplomatic coupons.
Sergei: Uh, (picks up a plate) plate?
Phoebe: Plate! Yes, plate.
Sergei: Plate. Plate. Plate.
Sergei: (picking up a cup) Plate?
Phoebe: Yeah.
Ross: (to Chloe) I like this song.
Ross: Oh, no, no.
Chloe: Still no smile?
Sergei: (singing) Touchet, touchet, Miss Americccan pie. (stops to correct
Phoebe) Ameri-ccan.
Phoebe: Ameri-can.
Sergei: Ameri-ccan.
Sergei: (to the rest of Central Perk) Everybody!! (In his language, and
continues.)