(BEAT): This is a story about a legend. And for us, that summer was the one when the legend got made.
WILDLY:: Everybody sometime in their life has met a real live hero.
(MORE): They're not exactly a dime a dozen, but there's plenty of people who've done real great things. But hardly anyone has ever met a certified Legend, because most of them are dead before they get voted one.
(BEAT): There's never been anyone greater than The Babe. And when he called his famous full count homerun in the 1932 world series, he made sure he'd live forever.
(MORE): would've happened. Weird thing was, before I moved to the neighborhood, I had no idea who he was. And he played a game I knew nothing about.
FROM: YEAH-YEAH, HAM, DeNUNEZ, REPEAT, TIMMY, BERTRAM and SQUINTS come unglued and crowd the basepath.
NEW- KID: has been watching nearby.
OUTFIELD OF: The gang's homemade baseball diamond. They're:
(BEAT): When I moved in that summer, I'd never played baseball, but it wasn't too tough figuring out who these guys' heroes were. So, after a week of watching... I figured baseball seemed like the best way to get in with them.
SWITCHES ON: a tiny scoopelvator snatches up a white marble. Drops it on a roller coaster track. The marble whips around corners and
(BEAT): Scotty, look at me. I know you're smart, and I'm proud of you. But you have to get outside, you have to... play.
(BEAT): Not too much, but some. You have my permission. Now how many mothers do you think say that to their sons?
EGGHEAD -: - and you'll always be just an egghead with an attitude like that. So promise me, alright?
(BEAT): Mom? Do you think Bill - I mean Dad - will teach me to play catch?
(ALTERMNATE LINE): You know what a pitcher he was in high college.
11: Scotty peeks through a slightly open door. BILL moves around inside, unpacking boxes. Scotty reaches to knock. Stops. Almost walks away. Then musters the gumption. KNOCKS.
(BEAT): At the time, he and I were still getting used to each other.
IN: where he hugs the perimeter, moving slowly toward the sandlot common houses. Winded, Scotty finds
(BEAT): There was only 8 of them, so they didn't have a whole team. It didn't matter though... Benny was so good he took everyone's position when it was there ups.
(BEAT): I didn't know any of that then... I just knew they were having the time of their lives and I wanted to be a part of it.
14: winds up and pitches to
(TO HIMSELF): Don't be a goofus - don't be a goofus - don't be a goofus.
(BEAT): He cried... so they called him The Babe.
(BEAT): When they'd all tried out for youth league, they'd all made it. But when they found out they'd have to play on different teams, Benny told 'em that if they couldn't play together, they shouldn't play at all. So, they stayed together.
18: Benny's at the window, clutching a baseball, staring over at Scotty's house.
(BEAT): Even though neither of us knew it at the time, we were connected. Like I had been born for just that one moment, when I would perform the world's all- time boner, and Benny would bail me out.
(BEAT): Connected as friends... born to meet for just that one moment.
19: Scotty comes back in. Stops mutely near Bill. Long, agonizing seconds pass. Finally:
(NOBODY'S LISTENING): Honey, I said I would and I will. I'm just under the gun here, ya know?
AND CLOUTS: right in the eye.
(BEAT): Sorry. We'll try again soon.
25: Benny and Scotty come upon the gang (all their mouths are full a' bazooka) as Ham's chompin' on a candy cigar doing a
BABE IMITATION:: Hey! Check me out! I'm the Great Bambino!
(BEYOND HIM): What did he say?
(TO GANG): He's Scott Smalls.
(LUMPY THROAT): Um, thanks for taking me here... but I think better go.
(QUICK): But it shoulda been a B.
(BEAT): You ever have a paper route?
(PAUSE): Just let go.
(UNNERVED): What was that thing?!
(CONCOCTING): First you take the graham - you put the chocolate on the graham, Hershey's of course - you hold the chocolate on the graham while you roast the mallow-
(BEAT): Then, you scarf.
(TO SCOTTY): First time DeNunez heard this story he
FAINTED -: - Bull, Squints!
(SOLEMN): Now, quiet...
(BEAT): That was exactly what Mr. Mertle figured he needed to protect his junkyard, 'cause people kept stealing stuff at night, when he wasn't around.
(BEAT): And so he only had one thing on his mind... to kill.
(BEAT): After awhile, the police started getting phone calls from people, reporting all the missing thieves. The ones The Beast had killed... it added up to about 37 guys.
(BEAT): But we know what really happened.
(BEAT): He ate them bones and all.
(MORE): Because, when they went over, they vanished.
(BEAT): I knew it was true, because when I looked down in there, I didn't see a single... solitary... one.
WHILE: spits into his palm and rubs the ball to get the shine off. His eyes go suddenly wide and he stares, and oggles, and gawks:
(SWOONIN'): Oh-oh Wendy Peffercorn my darling lover girl...
(CALMS): So, where'd you get the money this time Yeah-Yeah?
FINALLY:: I can't take it no more, Benny. I'm bakin' like a toasted cheeser!
SO OBVIOUS:: Scam Pool Honeys!
(BEAT): But, of all the things we ever did besides baseball, goin' to the pool was what he tolerated best. Even though none of us had ever seen a Playboy magazine - which we constantly lied about - we figured the pool was the next best thing to being there.
(BEAT): We went for... the Lifeguard.
(LOSING IT): Lotioning... oiling... smiling.
(TEETH CLENCHED): I - can't - take - this - no - more!
SQUINTS: Everybody at the pool gathers 'round. The Lifeguard lays Squints flat. She administers mouth-to-mouth.
51: ...chucks his boney butt into the hedges. The guys scramble out, dragging their clothes after them. They help Squints up.
(BEAT): And cool.
(BEAT): Not another one among us would've ever, even for a million dollars, had the guts to put the move on the Lifeguard. He did. He had kissed a woman. And he kissed her long and good.
(BEAT): We got banned from the pool forever that day... but every time we walked by after that, the Lifeguard looked down from her watchtower, right over at Squints... and smiled.
CLOSER TO: then, SNATCH! Scotty makes a clean catch.
(DODGING BLOWS): Hey! C'mon! It was a joke, ya dopes! Do I _look_ like a monkey?!
(BEAT): Nobody has to see The Beast to know he's there.
56: The gang heads toward hallowed halls.
59: in kaleidoscopic columns of star-hot colors.
(BEAT): We played better then too. Because I guess, we all felt like Big Leaguers under the lights at some great stadium.
(BEAT): Benny felt like that all the time.
(BEAT): Because everytime we stopped to watch the sky that night like regular kids, Benny was there to call us back.
EACH OTHER:: I got it. I got it.
RIDERS DISEMBARK: ensues. They all running SCREAMING from the ride and lose it.
67: Scotty's cod belly white and jelly fish limp, from a long bout of the chuckies.
(BEAT): It was an omen... one that was meant just for Benjamin Franklin Rodriguez.
68: They tear open their packs of baseball cards. First things first - they eat the gum sticks. Then, shuffle through the cards looking for gold.
BELOW): Unstinkinbelievable!
PLUG:: Oh geez... Oh geez. I - I don't believe it. Maury Wills just stole 80 bases!
(BEAT): And it happened alright.
(BEAT): It happened right in front of our noses... and we didn't even know it.
(NO ANSWER): Then it ain't okay, 'cause now we can't play no more.
(THINKS): Where did your old man get that ball?
(THE END): Some lady named Ruth... Baby Ruth.
(STUNNED): Smalls, you mean to tell me you went home and swiped a ball that was signed by Babe Ruth, and brought it out here and actually played with it?
(OVERCOME): What did he say?!
(BEAT): The ball that you just aced to The Beast is worth... well, more than your whole life.
(A THOUGHT): Hey? Why don't we just go over there and knock on the door, and ask Mr. Mertle to get it for us?
(BEAT): That's not an option, Smalls. Forget about it.
'NEATH: from under which rises hazy twirls of dust. The dust is kept from ever settling by some enormous ORGANIC EXHAUST.
82: The guys fell the clothes line pole with a hack saw. 6 feet of inch thick pipe. They heft it up - go out to
84: THE BASEBALL moves a lot!
(MORE): Therefore, we tunnel. The Beast will never expect it.
86: The gang pulls Scotty out of the hole. Yeah-Yeah is unconscious on the grass. The guys turn a hose on him. He comes 'round SCREAMING:
(TRYING ANYTHING): Hail Mary Father who art star light twinkle twinkle hey diddle diddle -
(BEAT): Yeah-Yeah did. He showed back up and got right to work, like nothing ever happened.
THE: wrenching it viciously.
93: Scotty stares up at the ceiling in oceans of worry.
(BEAT): I'm sorry.
(MORE): Everybody gets one chance to do something great. Most people either never take the chance 'cause they're too scared, or they don't recognize it when it spits on their shoes.
(BEAT): This is your "big chance," and ya shouldn't let it go by.
(PAUSE): Remember those cards you got the other day?
(BEAT): You gotta do what your heart tells you, else you'll spend the rest of your life wishin' you had.
(MORE): Well, you think I knew I was gonna swat that?
(BEAT): Think about that, kid. I'll see ya later.
(BEAT): Follow your heart, kid, and you'll never go wrong.
THE: and balances - deciding.
STOPS EXACTLY: A goo-slobbered ball. Dirty Beast-foam drips off, revealing the smeared signature, B A B E R U T H. "G'head kid, I dare you!"
(BEAT): Big goggy.
101: Hot-rubber SQUEAKS from Benny's P.F. Flyers. The Beast's claws leave jagged scars in the concrete.
(DESPERATE): moves. They wanna but they can't!
(BEAT): Why don't you boys come in... we can talk about baseball.
INTO: Mr. Mertle sits at a table. Benny and Scotty stare at the tabletop.
(BEAT): They never let us play together, but we were friends. Good friends. He was almost as great a hitter as I was. But, he'd of told you he was better.
(BEAT): Hercules gave it a good chewing, didn't he?
(BEAT): It was also strange that Mr. Mertle had a Murderers' Row ball to replace the one signed by The Babe.
(BEAT): It was like we were a part of the same myth as The Babe... the Myth of Baseball.
(MORE): But it would stay with us forever. (as they all dissolve:) Yeah-Yeah's parents shipped him off to military school. Timmy and Tommy grew up to build skyscrapers. Ham went to college and became a pediatrician. DeNunez played triple A ball and never got to the majors. Bertram got really into the sixities and no one ever saw him again. Squints grew up and married Wendy Peffercorn; they bought the Five & Dime and they still own it to this day. Hercules lived to be 199 years old... in human years.
(DRAMATIC PAUSE): I don't believe it! Lasorda's calling up the "Old Man" to pinch-run in the biggest clutch situation this season! They say the veteran's lost a step or two. But if I were you, I'd get ready for some fireworks.
