SERENITY: Written by Joss Whedon
GIRL: Now that the war's over, our soldiers get to come home, yes?
TEACHER: Some of them. Some will be stationed on the rim planets as Peace Enforcers.
BOY: I don't understand. Why were the Independents even fighting us? Why wouldn't they look to be more That's a good question. Does anybody want to open on that?
TEACHER: That's a good question. Does anybody want to open on that?
GIRL: I hear they're cannibals.
ANOTHER BOY: That's only Reavers.
ANOTHER GIRL: Reavers aren't real.
ANOTHER BOY: Full well they are. They attack settlers from space, they kill them and wear their skins and rape them for hours and hours
TEACHER: ( in Chinese )
RIVER: We meddle.
TEACHER: RIVER is a dark, intense little girl, writing with one hand and "typing" with the other. ( Typing consists of holding a long wooden stylus and tapping either end down different columns of chinese characters on her desktop screen. ) She is a good two years younger than the other kids.
RIVER: People don't like to be meddled with. We tell them what to do, what to think, don't run don't walk we're in their homes and in their heads and we haven't the right. We're meddlesome.
TEACHER: ( gently taking her
STYLUS ): River, we're not telling people what to think. We're just trying to show them how. She violently PLUNGES the stylus into the girl's forehead
2ND TECHNICIAN: She's dreaming.
FIRST TECHNICIAN: 2ND TECHNICIAN Off the charts. Scary monsters.
2ND TECHNICIAN: Off the charts. Scary monsters.
DOCTOR MATHIAS: Let's amp it up. Delcium, eight- DOCTOR MATHIAS is not instantly likable nor gradually, for that matter. A cold man, and more than a little satisfied with himself.
DOCTOR MATHIAS: ( CONTINUING ) See, most of our best work is done when they're asleep. We can monitor and direct their subconscious, implant River starts convulsing, mewing in misery. The Inspector starts forward, slowly.
DOCTOR MATHIAS: ( CONTINUING ) It's a little startling to see, but the results are spectacular. Especially in this case. River Tam is our star pupil. The Inspector steps into the light. He is rigid, cold, staring at the girl with no emotion at all. His name, as we will very soon learn, is SIMON.
SIMON: I've heard that.
DOCTOR MATHIAS: She's a genius. Her mental capacity is extraordinary, even with the side-effects.
SIMON: Tell me about them.
DOCTOR MATHIAS: Well, obviously, she's unstable. the neural stripping gives them heightened cognitive reception, but it also destabilizes their own reality matrix. It manifests as borderline schizophrenia. which at this point is the price for being truly psychic.
SIMON: ( moves toward her ) What use do we have for a psychic if she's insane?
J: DOCTOR MATHIAS I don't have to tell you the security potential of someone who can read minds. And she has lucid periods we hope to improve upon the. I'm sorry, Sir, I have to ask if there's some reason for this inspection.
DOCTOR MATHIAS: I don't have to tell you the security potential of someone who can read minds. And she has lucid periods we hope to improve upon the. I'm sorry, Sir, I have to ask if there's some reason for this inspection.
SIMON: ( TURNING ) Am I making you nervous?
DOCTOR MATHIAS: Key members of Parliament have personally observed this subject. I was told their support for the project was unanimous. The demonstration of her power
SIMON: ( turns back to her ) How is she physically?
DOCTOR MATHIAS: Like nothing we've seen. All our subjects are conditioned for combat, but River. she's a creature of extraordinary grace.
SIMON: Yes. She always did love to dance. He drops to one knee, slamming his baton to the floor.
SIMON: ( CONTINUING ) River. Wake up. Please, it's Simon. River. It's your brother. Wake up. She begins to stir as a noise moves him to the door, looking out and removing his uniform to reveal an orderly's tunic River is suddenly next to him. He jumps a little.
IWO: River is suddenly next to him. He jumps a little.
RIVER: A beat, as they face each other, Simon fighting emotion.
RIVER: ( CONTINUING ) They know you've come.
SIMON: We can't make it to the surface from inside. Simon turns suddenly as he hears footsteps, people heading at them from the other side of the doors. 4wo SIMON
V0: ANGLE: THE SHIP is floating over the grass of rolling hills, the city gleaming far beyond. This facility is well hidden. A gurney-sized section of the ship's belly detaches and drops down ten stories, cables spooling it out of the ship. It comes to Simon and River and stops suddenly.
SIMON: Get on! He is standing by the window and the Security Agent is right behind him, PUNCHING the window with all his might. Simon helps River onto the gurney, then jumps on himself as the Security Agent cracks the glass. The two are whisked up in the gurney, River on her knees, Simon standing beside her holding one of the cables
THE OPERATIVE: Biograph. Simon Tam.
IWO: As Simon's history files down in print and pictures graduation, security photo from his medical internship over one lens of the Operative's glasses.
THE OPERATIVE: ( CONTINUING ) Remarkable children. Doctor Mathias storms in, two security men ( not the ones from the opening ) and a nervous young female intern following. Mathias looks greyer and more gaunt than when we saw him last.
DOCTOR MATHIAS: Excuse me! No one is allowed in the records room without my express permission.
THE OPERATIVE: ( over this, quietly ) Enter the doctor. ( to Mathias ) Forgive me. I prefer to see the event alone, without bias. Mathias looks at the hologram realizes which one it is.
DOCTOR MATHIAS: I need to see your clearance.
THE OPERATIVE: You're right to insist. I know you've had security issues here. He places his hand on a screen as he says it. Mathias looks at the readout, and drops the bluster.
DOCTOR MATHIAS: Apologies. An Operative of the Parliament will of course have full cooperation. ( looks at screen ) I'm not sure what. I see no listing of rank, or name.
THE OPERATIVE: I have neither. Like this facility, I don't exist. The Parliament calls me in when. when they wish they didn't have to. Let's talk about the Tams.
DOCTOR MATHIAS: I assume you've scanned the status THE OPERATIVE River was your greatest success. A prodigy A phenomenon. Until her brother walked in eight months ago and took her from you.
VJ: THE OPERATIVE River was your greatest success. A prodigy A phenomenon. Until her brother walked in eight months ago and took her from you.
THE OPERATIVE: River was your greatest success. A prodigy A phenomenon. Until her brother walked in eight months ago and took her from you.
DOCTOR MATHIAS: It's not quite so simple.
THE OPERATIVE: I'm very aware of that.
DOCTOR MATHIAS: He came in with full creds. He beat the ap-scan, the retinal. There was no way I could
THE OPERATIVE: No, no. Of course. The boy spent his fortune developing the contacts to infiltrate this place.
DOCTOR MATHIAS: Gave up a brilliant future in. medicine as well, you've probably read. Turned his back on his whole life. Madness.
THE OPERATIVE: Madness, no. Something a good deal more dangerous. Have you looked at this scan carefully? At his face? Mathias looks uncertain.
THE OPERATIVE: ( CONTINUING ) It's love, in point of fact. He loved his sister and he knew she was in pain. So he took her somewhere safe.
DOCTOR MATHIAS: Why are you here?
THE OPERATIVE: I'm here because the situation is even less simple than you think. ( eyeing him ) Do you know what your sin is, DOCTOR MATHIAS I. I would be very careful about what you
J: DOCTOR MATHIAS I. I would be very careful about what you
DOCTOR MATHIAS: I. I would be very careful about what you
THE OPERATIVE: ( SADLY ) It's pride. He touches the computer screen and the hologramic image jumps to the Doctor and Simon in the lab, Mathias repeating:
DOCTOR MATHIAS: Key members of Parliament have personally observed this subject. I was told their support
THE OPERATIVE: ( shutting it off ) Key members of Parliament. Key. The minds behind every diplomatic, military and covert operation in the galaxy, and you put them in a room with a psychic.
DOCTOR MATHIAS: She was. she read cards, nothing THE OPERATIVE It's come to our attention that River became much more unstable, more. disturbed, after you showed her off to Parliament. Did she see something very terrible in those cards?
THE OPERATIVE: It's come to our attention that River became much more unstable, more. disturbed, after you showed her off to Parliament. Did she see something very terrible in those cards?
DOCTOR MATHIAS: Whatever. secrets she might have accidentally gleaned. it's probable she doesn't even know she knows them. That they're buried THE OPERATIVE But they are in her. Her mind is unquiet. It's the will of the Parliament that I kill her. And the brother. Because of your sin.
THE OPERATIVE: But they are in her. Her mind is unquiet. It's the will of the Parliament that I kill her. And the brother. Because of your sin.
J: THE OPERATIVE ( continuing; moving to his briefcase ) You know, in certain older civilized cultures, when men failed as entirely as you have, they would throw themselves on their swords.
THE OPERATIVE: ( continuing; moving to his briefcase ) You know, in certain older civilized cultures, when men failed as entirely as you have, they would throw themselves on their swords.
DOCTOR MATHIAS: ( fed up ) Well, unfortunately I forgot to bring a sword to The air rings crisply as the Operative pulls out his sword.
THE OPERATIVE: The Parliament has no further interest in psychics. They represent a threat to the harmony and stability of our Alliance.
DOCTOR MATHIAS: I would put that down right now if I were you.
THE OPERATIVE: Would you be killed in your sleep, like an ailing pet? Whatever your failings, I believe you deserve better than that. The agents move. He slices the throat of the one behind him with true grace, thrusting at the second as he's pulling out his gun and pinning his hand. A moment, and the dying agent reflexively squeezes the trigger, shooting his own arm. The Operative pulls out the sword and the agent falls as quietly as the first. Mathias bolts but the Operative pins him to the wall. He bunches his fingers and jabs the side of the Doctor's spine. Mathias stiffens, suddenly, agonizingly immobile. The Operative steps back, observes the Doctor's rigid grimace for a moment. Almost ceremoniously, he drops to one knee and holds the blade out to one side, hilt to the floor and point tilted toward the doctor. The Doctor stares at it in horror as his paralyzed body begins to tip over toward it. The Operative turns toward the terrified intern at the door.
V0: THE OPERATIVE ( CONTINUING ) Young miss, I'll need all the logs- on behavioral modification triggers. We'll have to reach out to River Tam, and help her to come back to us. No matter how far out Simon has taken her, we can He's almost startled when the Doctor's body drops into frame, slowed suddenly by the sword. It squeaks down the blade, the Doctor unable to cry out, as the Operative whispers to him:
THE OPERATIVE: ( CONTINUING ) Young miss, I'll need all the logs- on behavioral modification triggers. We'll have to reach out to River Tam, and help her to come back to us. No matter how far out Simon has taken her, we can He's almost startled when the Doctor's body drops into frame, slowed suddenly by the sword. It squeaks down the blade, the Doctor unable to cry out, as the Operative whispers to him:
THE OPERATIVE: ( CONTINUING ) This is a good death. There's no shame in this, in a man's death. A man who's done fine works. We're making a better world. All of them, better worlds. Mathias is dead. The Operative pulls the sword out as the body rolls over. As he wipes the sword down:
THE OPERATIVE: ( CONTINUING ) Young miss, I need you to get to work now. I think I may have a long way to travel.
THE OPERATIVE: ( CONTINUING ) Where are you hiding,,little girl? The noise is sucked suddenly out of the room as we black out.
M0: becomes the name painted on the side of a spaceship, with the same in Chinese behind it.
SERENITY: becomes the name painted on the side of a spaceship, with the same in Chinese behind it.
MAL: What was that? He's addressing the pilot, WASH. Flight gear and a hawaiian shirt, toy dinosaurs populating his station no old soldier, but just as startled.
WASH: Whoah! Did you see that The ship bucks
MAL: Was that the primary buffer panel?
WASH: It did seem to resemble
J: Did the Primary Buffer Panel just fall off my gorramn ship for no apparent reason? Another buck
MAL: Did the Primary Buffer Panel just fall off my gorramn ship for no apparent reason? Another buck
WASH: Looks like.
MAL: I thought Kaylee checked our entry couplings! I have a very clear memory of it
WASH: Yeah well if she doesn't give us some extra flow from the engine room to offset the burnthrough this landing is gonna get pretty Define "Interesting".
MAL: Define "Interesting".
WASH: ( calm suggestion: ) "Oh god, oh god, we're all gonna ( hits the com ) This is the Captain. There's a little problem with our entry sequence; we may experience slight turbulence and then explode. ( to Wash, exiting ) Can you shave the vector
J: ( hits the com ) This is the Captain. There's a little problem with our entry sequence; we may experience slight turbulence and then explode. ( to Wash, exiting ) Can you shave the vector
MAL: ( hits the com ) This is the Captain. There's a little problem with our entry sequence; we may experience slight turbulence and then explode. ( to Wash, exiting ) Can you shave the vector
WASH: I'm doing it! It's not enough. ( hits com ) Just get us on the ground!
MAL: Just get us on the ground!
WASH: That part'll happen, pretty INT. FOREDECK HALL - CONTINUING The camera leads Mal down. On either side of the hall are ladders leading down to crew's personal quarters. The hulking mercenary JAYNE is coming up out of his bunk as Mal passes. He carries a number of rifles and grenades.
J: INT. FOREDECK HALL - CONTINUING The camera leads Mal down. On either side of the hall are ladders leading down to crew's personal quarters. The hulking mercenary JAYNE is coming up out of his bunk as Mal passes. He carries a number of rifles and grenades.
JAYNE: we're gonna explode? I don't wanna explode.
MAL: Jayne, how many weapons you plan on bringing? You only got the two I just get excitable as to choice, like to have my options open.
JAYNE: I just get excitable as to choice, like to have my options open.
MAL: I don't plan on any shooting taking place during this job.
JAYNE: Well, what you plan and what takes place ain't ever exactly been No grenades. ( Jayne groans ) No grenades. First Mate ZOE enters from the lower level. Her mode of dress and military deference mark her as a war buddy of Mal's.
MAL: No grenades. ( Jayne groans ) No grenades. First Mate ZOE enters from the lower level. Her mode of dress and military deference mark her as a war buddy of Mal's.
ZOE: Are we crashing again?
MAL: Talk to your husband. Is the mule Good to go, sir. Just loading her ( to Jayne ) Are those grenades?
ZOE: Good to go, sir. Just loading her ( to Jayne ) Are those grenades?
JAYNE: Cap'n doesn't want 'em.
J: We're robbing the place. We're not occupying it. All that plays in the background as we lead Mal into the:
ZOE: We're robbing the place. We're not occupying it. All that plays in the background as we lead Mal into the:
MAL: ( calling out ) He enters:
MAL: ( still calling ) Kaylee, what in the sphincter of hell are you playing at? The hall leads to the rust-brown chaos that is the engine room. Working around the engine in a forest of wires, sparks and smoke is the sweetly pretty mechanic, KAYLEE. She passes Mal with a slightly impatient smile as he stands in the doorway, raising his voice above the din.
MAL: ( CONTINUING ) We got the Primary Buffer
KAYLEE: Everything's shiny, Cap'n. Not to You told me
MAL: You told me
KAYLEE: ( WORKING ) That was six months ago, cap'n.
MAL: My ship don't crash. If she crashes, you crashed her.
MAL: ( CONTINUING ) Doctor. Guess I need to get innocked 'fore we hit planetside. Simon nods, the ship jolting again.
MAL: ( CONTINUING ) Bit of a rockety ride. Nothing to worry about.
SIMON: I'm not worried.
MAL: Fear is nothing to be ashamed of, This isn't fear. This is anger.
SIMON: This isn't fear. This is anger.
MAL: 4 ( LAUGHS ) Well, it's kinda hard to tell the one from t'other, face like yours.
SIMON: I imagine if it were fear, my eyes would be wider.
MAL: I'll look for that next time.
SIMON: You're not taking her.
MAL: ( brushing past him ) No no, that's not a thing I'm interested in talking over with
SIMON: She's not going with you. That's ( turning back ) I hear the words "that's final" come out of your mouth ever again, they truly will be. ( turning away again ) This is my boat. Y'all are guests on it. He heads down a side corridor that has steps leading down to:
MAL: ( turning back ) I hear the words "that's final" come out of your mouth ever again, they truly will be. ( turning away again ) This is my boat. Y'all are guests on it. He heads down a side corridor that has steps leading down to:
SIMON: Guests? I earn my passage, And it's time your little sister learned from your fine example.
MAL: And it's time your little sister learned from your fine example.
SIMON: I've earned my passage treating bullet holes, knife wounds, laser Some of our jobs are trickier than And you want to put my sister in the middle of that.
MAL: Some of our jobs are trickier than And you want to put my sister in the middle of that.
SIMON: And you want to put my sister in the middle of that.
MAL: Didn't say 'want'. Said 'will'. It's one job, Doc. She'll be fine. The passenger dorm has a time-worn warmth that most of the ship shares. Except, of course, for the sterile blue of:
SIMON: She's a seventeen year old girl. A mentally traumatized sevente
J: She's a reader. Sees into the truth of things; might see trouble before it's coming. Which is of use to me.
MAL: She's a reader. Sees into the truth of things; might see trouble before it's coming. Which is of use to me.
SIMON: And that's your guiding star, isn't it? What's of use.
MAL: ( LAUGHS ) Honestly, doctor, I think we may really crash this time anyway. Simon jabs the inoculation needle into Mal's arm.
SIMON: Do you understand what I've gone through to keep River away from the Alliance?
MAL: I do, and it's a fact me and mine have been courteous enough to keep to our own selves.
SIMON: Are you threatening to
MAL: I got one purpose here: keep this boat in the air. I take the jobs I get which is less and less, case you ain't been keeping track. He starts away, Simon still keeping pace.
MAL: ( CONTINUING ) Every year since the war the Alliance pushes just a little further out towards the rim. Makes it a chore for naughty men like us to slip about and keeping you two on board means working twice as hard to avoid the law. Means turning down a score of honest jobs.
J: INT. CARGO BAY - CONTINUING They enter the biggest space on the ship. Giant doors sit at the front, which will open upon landing to reveal a lowering ramp. Catwalks surround the space, leading up at the front to the foredeck hall. We've come all the way through Serenity.
MAL: So here is us, on the raggedy edge. Don't push me and I won't push you. Simon starts up the stairs as Mal calls to him:
MAL: ( CONTINUING ) Things get gritty I will keep her from the fray, but she's coming. Best you get her ready. As Mal walks on, we tilt up to see the Mule, a four-man hovercraft hanging from chains near the ceiling. Jayne and Zoe are tossing duffle bags into it.
MAL: ( CONTINUING ) Zoe, is Wash gonna straighten this boat out before we get flattened?
ZOE: Like a downy feather, sir. Nobody flies like my mister. The camera picks up Simon's feet as they enter foreground on the catwalk, and track with them to find:
SIMON: She's lying on her side, looking straight at us. A loose summer dress draped over her small frame.
RIVER: I know. We're going for a ride.
SIMON: Now, River, you stay behind the others. If there's fighting you drop to the floor or run away. It's okay to leave them to die. River puts on a huge pair of goggles, looks at her brother.
RIVER: I'm the brains of the operation.
ZOE: We should hit town right during Sunday worship. Won't be any If Fanty and Mingo are right about the payroll, this could look to be a sunny day for us.
MAL: If Fanty and Mingo are right about the payroll, this could look to be a sunny day for us.
SIMON: ( APPROACHING ) Captain, I'll ask you one last Doctor, I'm taking your sister under my protection here. If anything happens to her, anything at all, I swear to you I will get very choked up. Honestly. There could be tears. He peels out, leaves Simon fuming. Kaylee sidles up to him.
MAL: Doctor, I'm taking your sister under my protection here. If anything happens to her, anything at all, I swear to you I will get very choked up. Honestly. There could be tears. He peels out, leaves Simon fuming. Kaylee sidles up to him.
KAYLEE: Don't mind the Captain none, Simon. I know he'll look out for It's amazing. I bring River all the way out to the raggedy edge of the 'verse so she can hide from the Alliance by robbing banks.
SIMON: It's amazing. I bring River all the way out to the raggedy edge of the 'verse so she can hide from the Alliance by robbing banks.
KAYLEE: It's just a little Trading Station. They'll be back 'fore you can spit. ( as he stalks off ) Not that you spit.
JAYNE: What are we hoping to find here that equals the worth of a turd?
MAL: Alliance payroll. There's peace enforcing squads stationed all about this quadrant. Can't use credits out here they got to pay their boys in cashy money. Which once a month rests here.
ZOE: Something about stealing from the Alliance just warms a body like whiskey in winter.
JAYNE: ( cocks his gun ) Shiny. Let's be badguys. Mal turns back to River.
MAL: You ready to go to work, darlin'?
RIVER: There's no pattern to the pebbles here, they're completely random. I tried to count them but you drove too fast. Hummingbird.
MAL: ( never mind ) Right. Great. Let's go.
J: The door slams open, Mal and Jayne stride in, Zoe following and whipping her hogleg right at camera without looking. Reverse to see the camera is also a small screen with "Welcome to Lilac" on it for the millisecond before it's blown to bits. There's maybe fifteen people in the place: store workers, farm-folk and a couple dirt-poor kids. It's a combination post-office, general store, bank, and most other things.
MAL: Hands and knees and heads bowed down! Everybody, now! Two men who appear to be farm folk rush Mal and the others. Mal draws on the elder one and he stops dead in his tracks. Mal's gun is long, not unlike Civil War era issue, but very much new in design. The other tries to tackle Jayne, which is not necessarily a great idea. Jayne clotheslines him so hard he spins right upside-down and Jayne grabs him by the legs and CRACK! bounces his head right off the floor, knocking him out cold.
MAL: ( CONTINUING ) Y'all wanna be looking very intently at your own belly buttons. I see a head start to rise, violence is gonna ensue. The guy who rushed Mal complies along with everyone else. Jayne dumps his catch on the floor and rips open his dirty shirt to reveal the purple of an Alliance uniform.
JAYNE: Looks like this is the place. He looks up at Mal, who motions for Zoe to open the front door. She does, and River steps in. ANGLE: RIVER'S BARE FEET walking slowly among the hunched- over customers as Mal addresses them.
MAL: You've probably guessed we mean to be thieving here, but what we are after is not yours. So let's have no undue fussing. As he is speaking, Jayne is scrambling to the back office, finding the small vault locked.
JAYNE: She's locked up. River suddenly looks around, perturbed. CLOSE ON: a young tough. River looks up at Zoe, alarmed, and silently points to the young man. He is slowly reaching for the weapon in his belt. He finds Zoe's sawed-off nuzzling his cheek.
ZOE: You know what the definition of a hero is? It's someone who gets other people killed. You can look it up later. He drops his weapon, slides it across the floor. Mal moves to the Trade Agent. Hauls him up, tosses him toward the vault. Zoe and Jayne follow.
TRADE AGENT: This is just a crop moon, don't think you'll find what you
MAL: ( in Chinese )
ZOE: At last. We can retire and give up this life of crime. Mal reaches in, pulls a lever and the floor opens, a six foot hole appearing, stairs leading to a corridor, all gleaming metal and blue light. Zoe smiles. Jayne peers down as Mal addresses the Trade Agent.
MAL: Is there a fed down there? Be TRADE AGENT ( NODDING ) Y'all are Browncoats, hey? Fought for independence?
TRADE AGENT: ( NODDING ) Y'all are Browncoats, hey? Fought for independence?
VJ: War's long done. We're all just folk now. ( calls down ) Listen up! We are coming down to empty that vault! The voice of a young Alliance GUARD comes up from below.
MAL: War's long done. We're all just folk now. ( calls down ) Listen up! We are coming down to empty that vault! The voice of a young Alliance GUARD comes up from below.
SON: Did sound summat like gunblast. Maybe you aught run tell Lawman. She turns and right by her, in the shadows, is a man. Mostly. He is hideously disfigured, a combination of self- mutilation and the bubbling red of radiation poisoning. His clothes are rags, his eyes pinpoints of glazed madness. A blade blurs through frame.
WOMAN: Did sound summat like gunblast. Maybe you aught run tell Lawman. She turns and right by her, in the shadows, is a man. Mostly. He is hideously disfigured, a combination of self- mutilation and the bubbling red of radiation poisoning. His clothes are rags, his eyes pinpoints of glazed madness. A blade blurs through frame.
JAYNE: What the hell is up? You all right? What's goin' on? He holds her, as she whispers, wide-eyed.
RIVER: INT. VAULT - MOMENTS LATER Zoe is hauling out the last of five bags as Mal talks to the guard, holding his gun at him:
MAL: Leg's good, it'll bleed plenty and we avoid any necessary organs.
GUARD: I was thinking more of a graze..
MAL: Well you don't want it to look like you just gave up.
MAL!: ( to himself ) Every heist, he's gotta start yelling my name
MAL: ( to himself ) Every heist, he's gotta start yelling my name
JAYNE: ( barreling in ) Mal! Reavers! The girl's pitchin' a fit. They're here or they're comin' soon. He is already loading up with bags as Mal thinks quickly.
MAL: ( to Zoe and Jayne ) Get on the mule. ( to the guard, pointing to the
VAULT ): Does that open from the inside?
J: Whah -ah- yes.
GUARD: Whah -ah- yes.
MAL: You get everyone upstairs in there and you seal it. Long as you got air you don't open up, you I Buh I Mal is in his face, dark and huge:
GUARD: I Buh I Mal is in his face, dark and huge:
MAL: GET THEM INSIDE THE VAULT. EXT. TRADING STATION - DAY The doors burst open, Jayne and Zoe coming out first, Mal behind with River in hand. She is freaked, in her own space. Jayne and Zoe throw the bags on
MAL: Zoe take the wheel
JAYNE: You see 'em? Anybody see 'em? 1J and jump on themselves, Mal scanning the area as he hands River up to Jayne's care. As the craft powers up, slowly moving, the young man Zoe kept from trying to pull his weapon bursts out of the station, grabbing the back of the mule.
YOUNG MAN: Take me with you!
MAL: Get in the vault with the others
YOUNG MAN: I can't stay here! Please!
MAL: It's too many. Drive, Zoe. A Reaver craft ROARS over their heads. It's nearly the size of Serenity. Torn apart, belching smoke a welded conglomeration of ruined ships, painted for war. Predator, pure. It disappears over the rooftops.
YOUNG MAN: Zoe's face is set with unhappy determination as she floors it, shooting out and leaving the young man in the dust. As they move from him, four Reavers jump out of the shadows and grab the young man. Mal unhesitatingly draws his gun. He nudges a lever with his thumb and a cartridge pops back. Mal fires twice. The young man takes both bullets in the chest, slumps down dead.
PLEASE!: Zoe's face is set with unhappy determination as she floors it, shooting out and leaving the young man in the dust. As they move from him, four Reavers jump out of the shadows and grab the young man. Mal unhesitatingly draws his gun. He nudges a lever with his thumb and a cartridge pops back. Mal fires twice. The young man takes both bullets in the chest, slumps down dead.
MAL: Zoe's face is set with unhappy determination as she floors it, shooting out and leaving the young man in the dust. As they move from him, four Reavers jump out of the shadows and grab the young man. Mal unhesitatingly draws his gun. He nudges a lever with his thumb and a cartridge pops back. Mal fires twice. The young man takes both bullets in the chest, slumps down dead.
JAYNE: How come they ain't blowing us out of the air?
MAL: They wanna run us down. The up- close kill. River is squashed down on her back, being very small.
RIVER: They want us alive when they eat Boy, sure would be nice if we had some grenades, don'tchya think? Mal says nothing, keeps firing.
JAYNE: Boy, sure would be nice if we had some grenades, don'tchya think? Mal says nothing, keeps firing.
ZOE: Wash, baby can you hear me?
VO: INT. SERENITY: BRIDGE - CONTINUING Wash is in a frenzy of switchflipping, prepping for take-off.
WASH: We're moments from air. You got somebody behind you? We intercut Wash and Zoe at this point:
ZOE: ( BLANCHING ) We're not gonna reach you in time.
WASH: ( BLANCHING ) We're not gonna reach you in time.
ZOE: We're not gonna reach you in time.
WASH: Just keep moving, honey. We're coming to you.
MAL: Grab on! Jayne grabs the Mule, legs dangling, pulled out between the two vessels as Mal slams a new cartridge into his pistol.
JAYNE: I won't get et! You shoot me if they take me! Mal steadies himself and takes aim, seemingly at Jayne
JAYNE: ( CONTINUING ) Well don't shoot me first!
J: Mal fires. Again. Steadies himself for one more. The line holding the harpoon is split by Mal's third shot.
V0V: The mule surges forward as Jayne drags on the ground. Mal hauls him in as River bounds into the front to make room.
JAYNE: ( CONTINUING ) Rutting pigs! Where's And River is holding out his weapon before he can ask for it.
WASH: ( to Zoe ) Get some distance on 'em. You come to the flats, I want you to swing round. Gonna try a Barn Swallow.
WASH: J Simon! Open the loading dock!
ZOE: Talkin' ain't doin'. She throws the wheel and the mule comes hard about, fishtailing slightly as it faces the oncoming skiff.
SIMON: I swallowed a bug. Kaylee runs in to see how everyone is. She goes to Simon.
RIVER: I swallowed a bug. Kaylee runs in to see how everyone is. She goes to Simon.
KAYLEE: Are you okay?
MAL: Is he okay? A bloodied Reaver POPS into frame from under the skiff-top. 4 Everybody takes a moment to look at each other.
WASH: Nice flying, baby, and that's a negative. Clean getaway Out of atmo in six minutes.
MAL: Set course for Beaumonde. ( to the others ) First thing, I want these bod Simon suddenly punches him in the face, causing Mal to stumble back, and Simon to shake his hand in pain.
MAL: ( CONTINUING ) You stupid, selfish, son of a whore -
SIMON: You stupid, selfish, son of a whore -
MAL: I'm a hair's breadth from riddling you with holes, Doctor
SIMON: "One simple job! She'll be fine!"
MAL: She IS fine! Except for bein' still crazy, she's the picture of Wasn't for River, we'd probably be left there. She felt 'em coming.
ZOE: Wasn't for River, we'd probably be left there. She felt 'em coming.
SIMON: Never again. You understand me?
J: Seems I remember a talk about you giving orders on my boat.
MAL: Seems I remember a talk about you giving orders on my boat.
SIMON: Well sleep easy 'cause we're off your boat. Just as soon as River gets her share of the "bounty".
KAYLEE: Well let's not do anything hasty.
MAL: No, shiny! I'm sick a' carrying tourists anyhow. We'll be on Beaumonde in ten hours time, you can pick up your earnings and be on your merry. Meantime you do your job. Patch up my crew. A beat.
RIVER: He didn't lie down. They never lie down. She is looking at the Reaver. Everyone does, for a moment.
ZOE: No, I think things'll glide a deal smoother for us without River and Simon on board. but how long do you think they'll last?
MAL: Doc made his call. They's as babes in a basket when we took 'em in; we sheltered 'em plenty. Man has to cut loose, learn to stand on his own.
ZOE: Like that man back in town? They stop by Mal Is room.
MAL: I had to shoot him. What the Reavers woulda done to him before they killed him.
J: I know. That was a piece a' mercy. But before that, him begging us to bring him along. We couldn't take the weight. Woulda slowed us down.
ZOE: I know. That was a piece a' mercy. But before that, him begging us to bring him along. We couldn't take the weight. Woulda slowed us down.
MAL: We couldn't take the weight. Woulda slowed us down.
ZOE: You know that for certain
MAL: Mule won't run with five. I shoulda dumped the girl? Or you? Or Jayne?
ZOE: Coulda tossed the payload.
MAL: And go to Fanty and Mingo with air in our mitts, tell 'em "here's your share"? They'd set the dogs on us in the space of a twitch, and there we are back in mortal peril. We get a job, we gotta vo make good. Washenters from the bridge.
ZOE: Sir, I don't disagree on any particular point, it's just. in the time of war, we woulda never left a man stranded.
MAL: Maybe that's why we lost. She's not happy with the reply. Mal climbs down to his room as Wash reaches Zoe, slides his arms around her.
J: Mal moves a bunch of papers off his bunk and a picture slides out. Hits the floor and starts moving: it's a snapshot-movie
INARA: Kaylee, are you ever gonna put that capture down?
INARA: 4 You promised to help me pack.
R: Ain't logical. Cuttin' on his own face, rapin' and murdering I mean, I'll kill a man in a fair fight. or if I think he's gonna start a fair fight, or if he bothers me, or if there's a woman, or I'm gettin' paid mostly only when I'm gettin' paid. But these Reavers. last ten years they just show up like the boageyman from stories. Eating people alive? Where does that get fun? He dumps the body in, she starts the doors closing.
JAYNE: Ain't logical. Cuttin' on his own face, rapin' and murdering I mean, I'll kill a man in a fair fight. or if I think he's gonna start a fair fight, or if he bothers me, or if there's a woman, or I'm gettin' paid mostly only when I'm gettin' paid. But these Reavers. last ten years they just show up like the boageyman from stories. Eating people alive? Where does that get fun? He dumps the body in, she starts the doors closing.
KAYLEE: Shepherd Book said they was men that reached the edge of space., saw a vasty nothingness and just went bibbledy over it.
JAYNE: Hell, I been to the edge. Just looked like more space.
KAYLEE: I don't know. People get awful lonely in the black. Like to get addlepated ourselves, we stay on this boat much longer. Captain'll drive us all off, one by one.
JAYNE: You're just in a whinge cuz that prissy doc is finally disembarking. Me I says good riddance. He never belonged here, and his sister's no saner than one of them Reavers.
KAYLEE: That ain't even so! River's a dear heart and a boon to this crew! You just don't like her 'cause she can read your mind and everything you think is mean.
JAYNE: Well, there is that.
J: Her and Simon could have a place here. Now they're leaving us. Just like Shepherd Book. She looks up toward one of the shuttles.
KAYLEE: Her and Simon could have a place here. Now they're leaving us. Just like Shepherd Book. She looks up toward one of the shuttles.
KAYLEE: ( CONTINUING ) Just like Inara.
SHEYDRA: The girls. They've learned more from you these last months than the rest of us could show them in two years.
INARA: They're very sweet. But they're not Companions.
SHEYDRA: ( WRYLY ) You've no hope for them? Junk the lot, start anew?
J: On Sihnon we started training at twelve. Years of discipline and preparation before the physical act of pleasure was even mentioned. Most of these girls
INARA: On Sihnon we started training at twelve. Years of discipline and preparation before the physical act of pleasure was even mentioned. Most of these girls
SHEYDRA: They're all of good family, the highest academic standards
INARA: Control. Was the first lesson. And the last and these worlds are not like the Central Planets. There is barbarism dressed up in the most civil weeds. Men of the highest rank who don't know the difference between a Companion and a common whore. It's unsafe.
SHEYDRA: All the more reason the girls look to you. You came out here alone, before the Alliance ever thought to establish a House this remote. You've seen so much. You're a figure of great romance to them. 4d INARA Great romance has nothing to do with being a Companion, Sheydra. You should know better.
SHEYDRA: I'm not the one who had a torrid affair with a pirate. Inara nearly spills her drink.
INARA: A who? With a what?
SHEYDRA: ( SMILING ) It's the talk of the House. The girls all trade stories in the dorms at night.
INARA: I didn't. have a pirate.
J: In one of the stories you make love in a burning temple. I think that's my favorite.
SHEYDRA: In one of the stories you make love in a burning temple. I think that's my favorite.
INARA: ( SITTING ) This is unbearable. Captain Reynolds is no pirate; he's a petty thief. And he never laid a finger on me. All he ever did was rent me a shuttle and be very ( mutters in Chinese )
SHEYDRA: A year on his shuttle and he never laid a finger on you. No wonder you left.
INARA: ( BRIDLING ) I left because go away. We're no longer friends. You're a stranger to me now.
SHEYDRA: 104 I do love to watch you boil. Don't worry. The stories will fade. And your Captain Reynolds has probably gotten himself blown up by this time.
INARA: ( looking away again ) Yes. That would be just like him.
KAYLEE: Don't talk to the barkers only the captains.
40 SIMON: • I wish there was. Since he doesn't know what to say, she rattles on:
KAYLEE: You shouldn't aughta be so clean. It's a dead giveaway you don't belong, you always gotta be tidy. Don't pay anybody in advance. And don't ride in anything with a Capissen 38 engine, they fall right out of the sky.
SIMON: She turns and heads off. Simon starts in the other direction, but River looks after her and the others.
SIMON: ( CONTINUING ) River. do you want to stay with 4 RIVER It's not safe.
4 RIVER: It's not safe.
SIMON: No, I fear it's not safe anymore. He's heading off and doesn't hear:
RIVER: For them.
MAL: It's not my fault the Doc's got no stomach for Rim living
KAYLEE: It is entirely and for all your fault! If you'd given Simon a moment, just a moment where he didn't think you were gonna throw them off or turn them in, he What? Swept you into his cleanly arms? Made tidy love to you? They have reached the guncheck, where Jayne and Wash have already checked their guns. It works like a lunch automat: Mal sticks his gun in a drawer, pulls out a chit the q0 drawer closes and rotates, revealing another empty one. A large bouncer with a shockrod watches impassively.
MAL: What? Swept you into his cleanly arms? Made tidy love to you? They have reached the guncheck, where Jayne and Wash have already checked their guns. It works like a lunch automat: Mal sticks his gun in a drawer, pulls out a chit the q0 drawer closes and rotates, revealing another empty one. A large bouncer with a shockrod watches impassively.
KAYLEE: ( as they continue
DOWN ): Don't you dare joke! You know how much I pined on Simon. And him fair sweet on me, I well believe, but he's so worried about being found out
ZOE: Captain didn't make 'em fugitives.
KAYLEE: But he coulda made 'em family! Steada driving them off. Steada keeping Simon from seein' I was there, when I carried such a torch and we coulda goin' on a year now I ain't had nothin' twixt my nethers weren't run on batteries!
MAL: Oh god! I can't know that!
JAYNE: 40 I could stand to hear a little If you had a care for anybody's heart you woulda
KAYLEE: If you had a care for anybody's heart you woulda
MAL: ( ENOUGH ) You knew he was gonna leave. We never been but a way station to those two. And how do you know what he feels? He's got River to worry on but he still coulda shown you. if I truly wanted someone bad enough, wouldn't be a thing in the 'verse could stop me from going to her.
KAYLEE: Tell that to Inara. For a moment, Mal is too shocked to react. Kaylee storms out.
MINGO: 4 Domestic troubles? MINGO is young, tough somewhere between a gangster and a fur-trader. Sounds lower-class British, or something like it.
FANTY: Domestic troubles? FANTY moves out from behind Mingo to reveal that he is Mingo's identical twin. Apart from slight differences in dress, they are indistinguishable.
MINGO: 'Cause we don't wanna interrupt.
FANTY: A man should keep his house in ( greets them each ) Mingo. Fanty.
MAL: ( greets them each ) Mingo. Fanty.
MINGO: ( pointing at his
BROTHER ): He's Mingo. He's Fanty. You're Mingo.
MAL: He's Fanty. You're Mingo.
MINGO: Ghahh! How is it you always know?
MAL: Fanty's prettier. ( pulling out a chair ) Feel to do some business?
MINGO: ( re: Mal Is gang ) Bit crowded, isn't it? As you see, we come unencumbered by thugs.
MAL: Which means at least four of the guys already in here are yours. All's one. I'll just keep Jayne with me.
ZOE: Sir, are you sure you don't
MAL: Go. Go get yourselves a nice romantic meal.
WASH: Those are my two favorite words! ( to Zoe ) Honey. "Meal."
MAL: ( to Zoe ) It's business. We're fine. They leave and the four remaining men sit. Fanty tosses a few coins to a saloon-girl, who does a little fan-dance. ANGLE: THE CORVUE CAMERA'S POV of the men is conveniently blocked by her little dance. Mal's foot nudges a duffel bag of money to Mingo's foot.
MINGO: Quite a crew you've got.
MAL: Yeah, they're a fine bunch of How you keep them on that crap boat is the subject of much musing tween me and Fanty.
MINGO: How you keep them on that crap boat is the subject of much musing tween me and Fanty.
FANTY: We go on and on.
MAL: So I'm noticing. Is there a problem I don't know of? You got 25% of a sweet take kissing your foot, how come we're not Our end is forty, precious.
FANTY: Our end is forty, precious.
JAYNE: My muscular buttocks it's forty
MINGO: It is as of now. Find anyone around going cheaper.
J FANTY: Find anyone around going near a sorry lot like you in the first ANGLE: RIVER has entered, is looking about. Jayne sees her, nudges Mal, who looks and turns back to business. We stay on her as she wanders around the perimeter of the bar, vaguely listening in on Mal's deal.
FANTY: ( CONTINUING ) You're unlikable, Mal. You got no respect for us above you, you got enemies in every quadrant, and your ship's older than the starting point of time. You's charity cases to such as us.
MAL: Well here's a foul thought. I conjured you two were incompetent; sent us out not knowing there were V0 Reavers about. Now I'm thinking you picked us out because you did.
MINGO: That were a sign of faith, boy. And it doesn't affect our forty per. Danger is, after all, your Reavers ain't business, double This is all background noise to River, who has moved to the CV screen, on which is a commercial. It's animated, goofy, cartoon animals and anime-style Asian girls all transforming to insane fantasy figures as they sing about:
JAYNE: Reavers ain't business, double This is all background noise to River, who has moved to the CV screen, on which is a commercial. It's animated, goofy, cartoon animals and anime-style Asian girls all transforming to insane fantasy figures as they sing about:
COMMERCIAL: FRUITY OATY BARS, POW! HEY! FRUITY BARS, MAKE A MAN OF A MOUSE, MAKE YOU BUST OUT YOUR BLOUSE, EAT THEM NOW, BANG! PING! ZOW! TRY FRUITY, OATY BARS. We push in, the light from the CV on River's face, pushing to EXTREME CLOSE UP, all noise but the jingle fading out, finally that as well, just the hum in River's ears. And she whispers:
RIVER: She turns and looks back at the crowd. What happens next happens very fast. quietly and she slams her foot into one's face, then whips kicks the table into a card player even as she sweeps a bottle off it behind her the bottle hits a man behind her square in the face, a man she never even looked at people are rising, fleeing or pushing forward
V0: V0 Whuhuh? She's taking out a group of four, high kicks and perfect precision Two men come from either side, one whipping out a knife she does a perfect split, grabs his wrist above her head, using his momentum to stab the other one Mal fights to get back to the gunrack. The bouncer reaches her and she wrests his shockrod from him, uses it on him, on Fanty and Mingo the fan-dancer is bolting and River hurls the rod at her head, knocks her cold. She's everywhere. On tables, chairs, under your legs, using the room itself to take out every single person there. One man hides behind a wall impossibly, she swings her leg around the corner and nails his face. Jayne grabs her from behind
MAL: V0 Whuhuh? She's taking out a group of four, high kicks and perfect precision Two men come from either side, one whipping out a knife she does a perfect split, grabs his wrist above her head, using his momentum to stab the other one Mal fights to get back to the gunrack. The bouncer reaches her and she wrests his shockrod from him, uses it on him, on Fanty and Mingo the fan-dancer is bolting and River hurls the rod at her head, knocks her cold. She's everywhere. On tables, chairs, under your legs, using the room itself to take out every single person there. One man hides behind a wall impossibly, she swings her leg around the corner and nails his face. Jayne grabs her from behind
JAYNE: V0 Whuhuh? She's taking out a group of four, high kicks and perfect precision Two men come from either side, one whipping out a knife she does a perfect split, grabs his wrist above her head, using his momentum to stab the other one Mal fights to get back to the gunrack. The bouncer reaches her and she wrests his shockrod from him, uses it on him, on Fanty and Mingo the fan-dancer is bolting and River hurls the rod at her head, knocks her cold. She's everywhere. On tables, chairs, under your legs, using the room itself to take out every single person there. One man hides behind a wall impossibly, she swings her leg around the corner and nails his face. Jayne grabs her from behind
JAYNE: ( CONTINUING ) Gorrammit, girl, it's me! She grabs his crotch and squeezes his grip loosens and she spins, facing him, and flat-heels his nose with her palm, V0 twirling into a gut kick that doubles him over, dispatching Somebody pulls a gun and she snaps his elbow, causing him to scream out even before he shoots himself in the gut Mal frantically wrests a gun from the vending locker as River knocks the other guy's gun in the air, kicks someone else and then catches it, whips it around just as Mal comes up with his, they are pointed right at each other
SIMON: Eta Kooram Nah Smech! And River drops to the ground, fast asleep. There is a beat. Mal looks around the bar. He and Simon, who has run up to the entrance, are the only ones standing. He looks down at River. She lies unconscious, helpless.
MAL: I think maybe we ought to leave.
THE OPERATIVE: ( CAPTIVATED ) Hello again. Yes, it's me. I'm glad you've finally asked for me. An Ensign is revealed looking at a separate monitor:
ENSIGN: We got a pos on a retinal man carrying her out is Malcolm Reynolds, captains a Firefly-class transport ship, "Serenity". Bound by law five times, smuggling, tariff dodge. not convicted. Nothing here that would
THE OPERATIVE: The ship. The name of the ship.
ENSIGN: THE OPERATIVE Serenity Valley. Bloodiest battle of the entire war. The Independents held the valley for seven weeks, two of them after their high command had surrendered. 68% casualty rate.
THE OPERATIVE: Serenity Valley. Bloodiest battle of the entire war. The Independents held the valley for seven weeks, two of them after their high command had surrendered. 68% casualty rate.
ENSIGN: Of course, Sir, I just didn't
THE OPERATIVE: His glasses stop scrolling and Mal's military file opens, a picture of Mal in one lens.
THE OPERATIVE: 140 ( CONTINUING ) If the feds ever bothered to crossref justice files with war records. Yes. Our Mr. Reynolds was a sergeant, 57th Overlanders. Volunteer. Fought at Serenity till the very last. This man is an issue. This man hates us.
ENSIGN: First Mate Zoe Washburn, formerly Corporal Zoe Alleyne, also in the 57th. Career army, looks like.
THE OPERATIVE: She's followed him far. Give me the crew, registered passengers Our Captain is a passionate man, no room there for subtlety. He's bound to have some very obvious. CLOSE ON: THE LENS of his glasses. On it is a slowly moving picture of INARA.
THE OPERATIVE: -40 ( continuing ) INT. STORAGE LOCKER - NIGHT River is still asleep, Mal finishing chaining her wrists. She lies on her side, breathing evenly. Mal stares at her a moment, then:
SIMON: May I see her?
MAL: She's still napping just now. And I believe you've got some storytelling to do.
WASH: ( ENTERING ) We're out of atmo, plotted for Haven. No one following as of yet.
KAYLEE: Haven? We're gonna see Shepherd ( NODDING ) We got to lay low. And I could fair use some spiritual guidance right about now. ( to Simon ) I am a lost lamb; what in hell happened back there?
MAL: ( NODDING ) We got to lay low. And I could fair use some spiritual guidance right about now. ( to Simon ) I am a lost lamb; what in hell happened back there?
WASH: Start with the part where Jayne gets knocked out by a ninety pound girl. 'Cause I don't think that's ever getting old.
ZOE: Do we know if anyone was killed?
MAL: It's likely. I know she meant to Ad kill me 'fore the Doc put her to sleep, which how exactly does that work anyhow?
SIMON: ( BEAT ) The people who helped me break River out they had intel that River and the other subjects were being embedded with behavioral conditioning. They taught me a safeword, in case. something Not sure I get it.
KAYLEE: Not sure I get it.
SIMON: A phrase that's encoded in her brain, that makes her fall asleep. If I speak the words, "Eta
JAYNE: ( jumping back ) Well don't say it! moo ZOE It only works on her, Jayne.
JAYNE: Oh. Well, now I know that.
MAL: "In case something happened."
SIMON: You feel to elaborate on what that something might be? I mean they taught you that fancy safeword, they must've figured she was gonna, what start uncontrollably crocheting?
MAL: You feel to elaborate on what that something might be? I mean they taught you that fancy safeword, they must've figured she was gonna, what start uncontrollably crocheting?
SIMON: They never said what
MAL: And you never did ask. Mal grabs him and throws him against the wall, in his face.
MAL: ( CONTINUING ) Eight months. Eight months you had her on my boat knowing full well she might go monkeyshit at the wrong word and you never said a thing
SIMON: I brought her out here so they couldn't get to her, I don't even know how they
MAL: My ship. My crewi You had a gorramn timebomb living with us!
V0: INT. DINING ROOM - CONTINUING What if she went off in the middle woo of dinner, or in bunk with Kaylee, did that give you a moment's pause? Simon looks at Kaylee, the truth of Mal's words hitting him.
MAL: What if she went off in the middle woo of dinner, or in bunk with Kaylee, did that give you a moment's pause? Simon looks at Kaylee, the truth of Mal's words hitting him.
SIMON: I thought she was getting better.
JAYNE: And I thought they was gettin' off! ( off looks ) Didn't we have a intricate plan how they was gonna be not here We couldn't leave them now.
KAYLEE: We couldn't leave them now.
JAYNE: No, now that she's a. killer woman we ought be bringin' 'em tea and dumplings! ( to Mal ) In earnest, Mal: why'd you bring her back on?
SIMON: May I see her. Mal steps aside. Simon enters the locker.
JAYNE: She goes woolly again, we're gonna have to put a bullet to her.
MAL: It's crossed my mind.
WASH: Can I make a suggestion that doesn't involve violence, or is this the wrong crowd?
J: V0 Fanty and Mingo might be coming hard down on us, or the laws. or maybe nobody could be bunged about a little social brawl. We need to get our bearings. I think we need to talk to Mr. Universe.
ZOE: V0 Fanty and Mingo might be coming hard down on us, or the laws. or maybe nobody could be bunged about a little social brawl. We need to get our bearings. I think we need to talk to Mr. Universe.
WASH: V0 Fanty and Mingo might be coming hard down on us, or the laws. or maybe nobody could be bunged about a little social brawl. We need to get our bearings. I think we need to talk to Mr. Universe.
A0: As he watches the security feed of River's fight his image becomes a vidscreen. He's addressing Wash, Mal and Zoe. We intercut between the two spaces:
MR UNIVERSE: Oh, this is good. This is.
WASH: That's what we're looking to learn. Is there any follow up, a MR UNIVERSE There is no "news", there's the truth of the signal, what I see, and there's the puppet theatre the V0 Parliament's jesters foist on the
MR UNIVERSE: There is no "news", there's the truth of the signal, what I see, and there's the puppet theatre the V0 Parliament's jesters foist on the
MAL: What about this? Did this make the. puppet theatre?
MR UNIVERSE: No sir. And no lawforce flags, either I hadda go into the security feed direct.
MAL: You can do that?
MR UNIVERSE: Can't stop the signal, Mal. Everything goes somewhere and I go everywhere. Security feeds are a A0 Everyone is getting bruises and contusions. Contoooosions.
ZOE: ( to Mal, over that ) So somebody else has been fed this. That doesn't like me too MR UNIVERSE Zoe, you sultry minx, stop falling in love with me. You're just gonna embarrass yourself. I have a commitment to my Lovebot, it was a very beautiful ceremony, Lenore wrote her own vows, I cried like a baby, a hungry, angry baby. ( re: screen ) And she falls asleep. Which, she would be sleepy.
MR UNIVERSE: Zoe, you sultry minx, stop falling in love with me. You're just gonna embarrass yourself. I have a commitment to my Lovebot, it was a very beautiful ceremony, Lenore wrote her own vows, I cried like a baby, a hungry, angry baby. ( re: screen ) And she falls asleep. Which, she would be sleepy.
J: Can you go back? See if anybody spoke with her 'fore she acted up, -40 made any kind of contact with Mr Universe works the screen. The image rewinds and stops on River coming up to it, looking at it. She whispers the word, "Miranda", and starts to move away.
MAL: Can you go back? See if anybody spoke with her 'fore she acted up, -40 made any kind of contact with Mr Universe works the screen. The image rewinds and stops on River coming up to it, looking at it. She whispers the word, "Miranda", and starts to move away.
MAL: ( CONTINUING ) Miranda.? Go back further.
MR UNIVERSE: He pulls another screen close, starts working that one. Matching timecodes, he pulls up the commercial.
MAL: Um. please? Mr Universe has a third screen showing the commercial as
MR UNIVERSE: Friends and potential lovers, I
4DO: have good news and I have the other kind. Good is you're very smart. Someone is talking to her.
WASH: The oaty bar?
MAL: Subliminal. It's a subliminal message broadwaved to trigger her.
MR UNIVERSE: ( NODDING ) I been seeing this code pop up all over, last few weeks. And I cannot crack it. It's Alliance and it's high military, so here then is the bad. Someone has gone to enormous trouble to find your little friend. And found her they have. Mal, Zoe and Wash look at each other.
MR UNIVERSE: ( CONTINUING ) Do you all know what it is you're INT. STORAGE LOCKER - NIGHT River stares at us, impassive, as the camera pulls away from her to reveal Simon, who is cleaning blood off her face.
W: INT. STORAGE LOCKER - NIGHT River stares at us, impassive, as the camera pulls away from her to reveal Simon, who is cleaning blood off her face.
RIVER: They're afraid of me.
SIMON: I'm sorry.
RIVER: They should be. What I will show them. Oh God. She starts tearing up, breathing faster. Simon runs his hands through her hair.
SIMON: It's okay, it's okay.
RIVER: ( somewhere else ) Show me off like a dog, old men covered in blood, it never touched them but they're drowning in it. so much loss. I don't know what I'm saying. I never know what I'm You said something. When you were triggered, do you remember? The Captain saw you say something on the feed.
SIMON: You said something. When you were triggered, do you remember? The Captain saw you say something on the feed.
RIVER: ( laughs bitterly ) Ask her. She'll show you all.
SIMON: ( laughs bitterly ) Ask her. She'll show you all.
RIVER: ( laughs bitterly ) Ask her. She'll show you all.
SIMON: Show us what? Who is Miranda?
RIVER: I'm not a multiple, dumbo.
SIMON: No. Right. But I think somehow when they triggered you it brought this up, this memory
RIVER: It isn't mine. The memory. I didn't bring it and I shouldn't have to carry it, it isn't mine.
SIMON: I won't.
RIVER: Put a bullet to me. Bullet in the brain pan, squish.
SIMON: Don't say that. Not ever. We'll get through this. She reaches out and touches his face, affectionately.
RIVER: Things are going to get much much Well, the Captain hasn't tossed us in the airlock, so I'd say we're
SIMON: Well, the Captain hasn't tossed us in the airlock, so I'd say we're
RIVER: He has to see. More than anyone. he has to see what he doesn't want to.
SIMON: River. What will Miranda show us. She thinks.
VD: Whose death? And she starts laughing. Quietly at first, then louder, then almost uncontrollably, screaming in his face:
RIVER: Whose death? And she starts laughing. Quietly at first, then louder, then almost uncontrollably, screaming in his face:
SIMON: Whose death? And she starts laughing. Quietly at first, then louder, then almost uncontrollably, screaming in his face:
RIVER: SMASH CUT TO: Black Silence.
EVERYBODY'S!!!: SMASH CUT TO: Black Silence.
V0: Forgive what you can, and send me on my path. I will walk on, until you bid me rest.
BOOK: Forgive what you can, and send me on my path. I will walk on, until you bid me rest.
MAL: Hope that ain't for me, Shepherd.
BOOK: ( lighting a cigar ) It's prayer for the dead.
MAL: Then I really hope it ain't for me.
BOOK: It's for the men River might have killed in that bar.
MAL: Weren't River that did it, you know that. Somebody decided her brain was just another piece of property to take, fenced it right Vd up.
BOOK: You got a plan?
MAL: Hiding ain't a plan?
BOOK: It'll do you for a spell, and the folks here'll be glad of the extra .but they'll be coming. Alliance is after this girl with a powerful will. I look to hear the tromp of their boots any You won't. ( off Mal's look ) This isn't a palms-up military MW run, Mal. No reports broadwaved, no warrants. much as they want her, they want her hid. That means Closed File. Means an Operative, which is trouble you've not known.
MAL: .but they'll be coming. Alliance is after this girl with a powerful will. I look to hear the tromp of their boots any You won't. ( off Mal's look ) This isn't a palms-up military MW run, Mal. No reports broadwaved, no warrants. much as they want her, they want her hid. That means Closed File. Means an Operative, which is trouble you've not known.
V0: You won't. ( off Mal's look ) This isn't a palms-up military MW run, Mal. No reports broadwaved, no warrants. much as they want her, they want her hid. That means Closed File. Means an Operative, which is trouble you've not known.
BOOK: You won't. ( off Mal's look ) This isn't a palms-up military MW run, Mal. No reports broadwaved, no warrants. much as they want her, they want her hid. That means Closed File. Means an Operative, which is trouble you've not known.
MAL: I coulda left her there.
BOOK: Not your way, Mal.
V0 MAL: I have a way?
BOOK: You can play the thug all you want, but there's more to you than you're ever like to 'fess.
MAL: You just think that 'cause my eyes is all sorrowful and pretty.
BOOK: Only one thing is gonna walk you through this, Mal. Belief.
MAL: Sermons make me sleepy, Shepherd. I ain't looking for help from on high. That's a long wait for a train don't come.
BOOK: When I talk about belief, why do you always assume I'm talking about God? W ( Mal has no response ) They'll come at you sideways. As he continues, we see:
BOOK: Sorta man they're like to send believes hard. Kills and never asks why.
MAL: It's of interest to me how much you seem to know about that world.
BOOK: I wasn't born a Shepherd, Mal.
MAL: Have to tell me about that some ( looking out ) No I don't. He walks away, offering this:
BOOK: ( looking out ) No I don't. He walks away, offering this:
BOOK: ( CONTINUING ) Mal watches him go, thinking.
TEACHER: Eight-year-old River is working away, not paying attention.
TEACHER: ( CONTINUING ) River, you look tired. I think everybody's a little tired by now; why don't we all lie down. River looks up, scared. All the other children wordlessly get up from their seats and lie on the floor next to them.
TEACHER: ( CONTINUING ) A little peace and quiet will make everything better. She starts to lie down herself, right on the grass.
RIVER: Vao TEACHER River. Do as you're told. It's going to be fine. Lie down.
RIVER: INT. STORAGE LOCKER - NIGHT River starts awake.
NO!: INT. STORAGE LOCKER - NIGHT River starts awake.
MAL: Whuh huh nuhwhat?
MAL: REVERSE ON: Inara on Mal's screen. We see her from about chest level up. She, presumably, sees the same.
INARA: Mal. I uh, is this a bad time
MAL: Good as any.
INARA: Please tell me you're wearing ( slight grin ) Naked as the day I come cryin'. How's your world?
MAL: ( slight grin ) Naked as the day I come cryin'. How's your world?
INARA: Cold. It's autumn here.
MAL: Still at the Training House?
INARA: Right where you left me.
MAL: I remember it as nice enough. It is that. What about you?
INARA: It is that. What about you?
MAL: Still flying. So what occasi the wave? Not that to see you ain't. well you look very
ONS: Still flying. So what occasi the wave? Not that to see you ain't. well you look very
INARA: Oh. Thank you, I. I guess we have something of a problem here. With the locals, I thought maybe.
MAL: You could use a gun hand?
INARA: I'm hoping not. But if you were close at all, you the crew could take your ease here a while. and there'd be payment.
MAL: Payment is never not a factor. I could sound out the crew. This pot like to boil over soon?
INARA: Soon. Not right away.
MAL: Well, it would be, I mean I would like to. Kaylee's been missing
KAYLEE: Oh they're so pathetic!
INARA: I miss her too. I even miss my shuttle, occasionally.
MAL: Yeah, you left a. got some of your stuff in a trunk, never did get a chance to drop it off.
INARA: I didn't look through the. stuff. just sundries I expect.
MAL: I didn't look through the. stuff. just sundries I expect.
MAL: ( CONTINUING ) Well, it's kind of late where I'm at. I'll send a wave as soon as I can.
INARA: Thank you. She disappears. Mal thinks a moment.
WASH: Inara. Nice to see her again.
ZOE: So, trap?
MAL: We goin' in? moo MAL It ain't but a few hours out.
ZOE: We goin' in? moo MAL It ain't but a few hours out.
WASH: Yeah, but, remember the part where it's a trap?
MAL: If that's the case, then Inara's already caught in it. She wouldn't set us up willing. Might be we got a shot at seeing who's turning these wheels. We go in.
KAYLEE: How can you be sure Inara don't just wanna see you? Sometimes people have feelings I'm referring here to people.
MAL: Y'all were watching, I take it. Guilty glances.
KAYLEE: 140 You see us fight?
MAL: 140 You see us fight?
KAYLEE: EXT. SERENITY - DAY The ship moves gracefully over the mountains.
MAL: EXT. SERENITY - DAY The ship moves gracefully over the mountains.
WASH: We're about seventy miles from the Training house. And nobody on radar. if the Alliance is about, they're laying low.
MAL: They're about. Find us a home. I'll take the shuttle in closer. Zoe, ship is yours. 4dO He starts out, turns back to Zoe.
MAL: ( CONTINUING ) Remember: if anything happens to me, or you don't hear from me within the hour. you take this ship and you come and rescue me.
ZOE: What? And risk my ship?
MAL: ( EXITING ) I mean it. It's cold out there. I don't wanna get left.
MAL: Dear Buddha, please send me a pony, and a plastic rocket, and
I NAR.A: Mal! What are you doing here?
MAL: You invited me.
INARA: I never thought for a second you'd be stupid enough to come!
MAL: Well that makes you kind of a tease, doesn't it?
INARA: You knew my invitation wasn't on the level
MAL: Which led me to the conclusion that you must be in some trouble.
INARA: I'm fine! I'm. giddy.
MAL: For a woman schooled in telling men what they wanna hear, you ain't much of a liar.
INARA: Mal, you cannot handle this man.
THE OPERATIVE: ( ENTERING ) I have to say, I'm impressed that you would come for her yourself. lw� And that you would make it this far in that outfit.
MAL: ( STANDING ) I can be very graceful when I need THE OPERATIVE I've no doubt. Mal sheds his shawl and robe. Inara kneels at the alter, picks out another incense stick.
THE OPERATIVE: I've no doubt. Mal sheds his shawl and robe. Inara kneels at the alter, picks out another incense stick.
MAL: What are you doing?
INARA: I'm praying for you, Mal.
THE OPERATIVE: That's very thoughtful. But I mean it when I say you're not in any danger.
MAL: Speak your piece.
THE OPERATIVE: I think you're beginning to understand how dangerous River Tam She is a mite unpredictable. Mood swings, of a sort.
MAL: She is a mite unpredictable. Mood swings, of a sort.
THE OPERATIVE: It's worse than you know.
MAL: It usually is.
THE OPERATIVE: That girl will rain destruction down on you and your ship. She's an albatross, Captain.
MAL: Way I remember it, albatross was a ship's good luck. til some idiot killed it. ( to Inara ) Yes, I've read a poem. Try not to The Operative moves further into the room. Whenever he moves, Mal counters.
THE OPERATIVE: I've seen your war record. I know how you must feel about the You really don't.
MAL: You really don't.
THE OPERATIVE: Fair to say. But I have to hope you understand you can't beat us.
MAL: I got no need to beat you. I just wanna go my way.
THE OPERATIVE: And you can do that, once you let me take the girl back home. Give me the opportunity to help you.
MAL: All I gotta do is let you take one more thing away from me. I've had a lot of things taken in my time. And it may just be that this is one too many.
THE OPERATIVE: This psychotic, potentially murderous girl who can't have the slightest awareness of your protection. This is where you "draw the line".
MAL: Well I'm a whimsical soul.
THE OPERATIVE: There's a number of lives that hang in the balance here. Lives under your care. Are they as whimsical as yourself?
MAL: I got no notion that I'm being heroical at all. Any more than I think you're really just a harmless bureaucrat come to help me out. You move like a killer. The Operative is stopped by this. Unhappily, he continues:
THE OPERATIVE: I have a warship in deep orbit, Captain. We locked on to Serenity's pulse beacon the moment you hit atmo. I can speak a word and send a missile to that exact location inside of three minutes. Mal pulls a small device, clipped wires sticking out all around it, and tosses it to the Operative.
MAL: You do that, best make peace with your dear and fluffy lord.
THE OPERATIVE: Pulse beacon.
MAL: Advice from an old tracker: you J wanna find someone, use your eyes.
THE OPERATIVE: How long do you think you can really run from us?
MAL: Oh, a jack-rabbit, me. 'Sides, I never credited the Alliance with an over-abundance of brains. And if you're the best they got.
THE OPERATIVE: Captain Reynolds, I should tell you so that you don't waste your time: You can't make me angry.
INARA: Oh please. Spend an hour with him. Mal smiles then glares at Inara, mouthing "Hey!"
THE OPERATIVE: I need her, Captain. River is. my purpose and I will gather her to me. The brother as well. Whatever else happens is incidental. In the greater scheme.
MAL: Why is it that the greater scheme always makes everything not that THE OPERATIVE I want to resolve this like civilized men. I'm not threatening you. I'm unarmed.
THE OPERATIVE: I want to resolve this like civilized men. I'm not threatening you. I'm unarmed.
MAL: He draws and shoots the Operative in the chest. The Operative goes down as Mal grabs Inara, moves for the-doorway. The Operative is on him in a second, choke-hold from behind.
THE OPERATIVE: I am of course wearing full body armor. I'm not a moron. He tosses Mal hard against a wall, spinning and blocking a blow from Inara she is clearly trained in martial arts, but he flat-heels her to the ground within seconds. Mal is going for his gun again, turning, and the Operative kicks him in the face, sends him back, gun flying. Mal gets to his feet and they square off. Mal breathing hard, nose dripping blood. The Operative perfectly poised, waiting.
MAL: No back up? We're making an awful THE OPERATIVE They'll come when they're needed.
THE OPERATIVE: They'll come when they're needed.
MAL: I'd start whistling.
THE OPERATIVE: Captain, what do you think is going to happen here? They come at each other. The Operative is the much better trained he's fluid, his blows sparse and deadly.
THE OPERATIVE: ( CONTINUING ) Nothing here is what it seems.
INARA: I know.
THE OPERATIVE: He's not the plucky hero. The Alliance isn't some evil empire. This isn't the grand arena.
INARA: And that's not incense. He turns to look: the incense stick burns away rather like a fuse and FLASHES in an explosion of light and sound.
THE OPERATIVE: Just a flash bomb. Go! Go!
MAL: .I had him.
INARA: ( deafly loud ) I think that I was winning!
MAL: ( deafly loud ) I think that I was winning!
ALLIANCE SOLDIER: Everybody dives for cover. The moment they do, Mal and Inara race into the shuttle, Mal sweeping up the grenade just as the last light goes out and nothing happens. One soldier turns to look and Mal shoots him back down as the door shuts on him and Inara.
INARA: Hang on to something.
MAL: 4 You sure you remember how it He nearly falls over as:
INARA: I told you to hang on.
THE OPERATIVE: ( into a com ) Forget the pulse beacon, there has to be another way to track the ship get a read on the nav sat.
THE OPERATIVE: Have you found a nav sat ENSIGN ( O.S. ) Sir. we've found seven. The Operative looks more unhappy than angry.
THE OPERATIVE: ( to himself ) Does he think this is a game?
JAYNE: Why, 'cause this guy beat up Mal? That ain't so hard
MAL: He didn't beat me up
INARA: Because he's a believer.
INARA: I honestly think the only reason we haven't been blown out of the air is that he needs to see her.
SIMON: Needs to see her why?
INARA: I'm uncertain. I would say to be sure of the kill, but. I just know he'll kill us all to get to So no hope of a reward, huh?
JAYNE: So no hope of a reward, huh?
ZOE: Did he mention a deal of any kind?
IWO: ( looking at Simon ) Give the two of them up. Go my Which you was all ready to do not a day ago. What went sour?
MAL: ( looking at Simon ) Give the two of them up. Go my Which you was all ready to do not a day ago. What went sour?
JAYNE: Which you was all ready to do not a day ago. What went sour?
MAL: Cutting them loose ain't the same as handing them over.
JAYNE: That so? 'Cause the corpse I'm about to become is having trouble telling the difference.
SIMON: ( to Inara ) Did he say anything about a What is that?
INARA: What is that?
MAL: Don't know who or what, but it's on River's mind. Conjure it might be the reason he's after her.
INARA: You think maybe it poses some kind of threat to the Alliance?
WASH: Do we care? Are we caring about You dumbass hogs, the only people she's a threat to is us on this INT. STORAGE LOCKER - CONTINUING River is near the ceiling, keeping herself up in a split again, feet against the walls. There is a wire mesh cover to the light, and she has bent part of it out, is working it inside the lock of her shackles.
JAYNE: You dumbass hogs, the only people she's a threat to is us on this INT. STORAGE LOCKER - CONTINUING River is near the ceiling, keeping herself up in a split again, feet against the walls. There is a wire mesh cover to the light, and she has bent part of it out, is working it inside the lock of her shackles.
MAL: Look, we get back to Haven in a 'r/ few hours time
JAYNE: Hiding under the Shepherd's skirts, that's a manful scheme
MAL: You wanna run this ship?
JAYNE: ( small beat ) Well you can't!
MAL: ( small beat ) Well you can't!
JAYNE: Do a damn sight better job'n you. Getting us lashed over a couple of ( to Simon ) No offense, Doc, I think it's noble as a grape the way you look to River, but she ain't my sister ( to Mal ) and she ain't your crew. Oh, and neither is she exactly helpless! So where's it writ we gotta lay down our lives for her, which is what you've steered us toward.
MAL: I didn't start this.
JAYNE: No, the Alliance starts the war and then you volunteer. Battle of Serenity, Mal: besides Zoe here, how many ( Mal turns away ) I'm talkin' at you how many men in your platoon came out of there alive? Mal stares at him.
ZOE: ( dead cold ) You wanna leave this room.
JAYNE: You're damn right I do. He stalks upstairs. There's a quiet moment.
INARA: This isn't the war, Mal. Mal turns, eyeing her.
MAL: Are you telling me that because you think I don't know
INARA: You came to the training house looking for a fight.
MAL: I came looking for you.
INARA: I just want to know who I'm dealing with. I've seen too many versions of you to be sure.
MAL: I start fighting a war I guarantee you'll see something new.
TO: Mal walks out into the cargo bay, Inara following, over:
SIMON: We'll get off. River and I'll get off at Haven and find some
KAYLEE: Nobody's saying that.
WASH: Nobody besides Jayne is saying INT. CARGO BAY - CONTINUING Inara tries to catch up to
INARA: ( TURNING ) I got no answers for you, Inara. I got no rudder. Wind blows 40 northerly, I go north. That's who I am. Maybe that ain't a man to lead but they have to follow so you wanna tear me down do it inside your own mind.
MAL: ( TURNING ) I got no answers for you, Inara. I got no rudder. Wind blows 40 northerly, I go north. That's who I am. Maybe that ain't a man to lead but they have to follow so you wanna tear me down do it inside your own mind.
INARA: I'm not trying to tear you down
D: But you fog things up. You always have you spin me about. I wish like hell you was elsewhere.
MAL: But you fog things up. You always have you spin me about. I wish like hell you was elsewhere.
INARA: I was.
JAYNE: He moves to the aft hall, shuts and locks the door. Goes 40 back to the locker and starts to unlock it, pulling his gun.
JAYNE: ( CONTINUING ) No trouble now, little crazy person. we're going for a nice
I: shuttle ride He opens the door and she is on him in an instant, whip blow to the throat, the nose he fires wildly as she jumps on him, wraps her arms around his neck and topples him back
MAL: The other way! Find her and-do not engage! Everyone piles out the other way. Simon remains, to look in the window.
NO: It's gonna be oka She elbows his throat viciously. He drops to his knees, shocked and gasping, as she spin-kicks him to the ground. He doesn't move. She looks at him a moment, then takes off.
SIMON: It's gonna be oka She elbows his throat viciously. He drops to his knees, shocked and gasping, as she spin-kicks him to the ground. He doesn't move. She looks at him a moment, then takes off.
ZOE: She's sealed off the bridge. I do not like her there.
KAYLEE: She tosses him a bolt remover. He starts pulling a bolt out of a panel on the wall, tells Zoe:
MAL: Check the shuttles. She coulda 40 snuck in. He pops the panel off and starts wriggling in among the wires.
MAL: The government's man, he says you're a danger to us. Not worth helping. Is he right? Are you anything but a weapon? I've staked my crew's life on the a - person-, - actual and whole, and if I'm wrong you'd best shoot me now. ( she cocks the gun ) Or we could talk more.
RIVER: ( pointing to screen ) WIt's a planet. Matches the one from her dream.
KAYLEE: How can it be there's a whole planet called Miranda and none of us knowed that?
MAL: Because there isn't one. It's a blackrock. Uninhabitable. Terraforming didn't hold, or somesuch. Few settlers died.
RIVER: ( to Simon ) I had to show them. I didn't know if you were going to make me sleep.
SIMON: ( hoarse whisper ) You could've asked.
KAYLEE: ( re: planet ) Wait a tick, yeah! Some ten years back, before the war. There was call for workers to settle on Miranda, my daddy talked about going. I should've recalled.
WASH: But there's nothing about it on the Cortex History, Astronomy. it's not in there.
MAL: Half of writing history is hiding the truth. There's something on this rock the Alliance doesn't want known.
INARA: That's right at the edge of the Burnham Quadrant, right?
W: Whoah, no, no
WASH: Whoah, no, no
ZOE: ( moving to the screen ) That's a bad notion
WASH: I got it, baby.
ZOE: I got it, baby.
WASH: Show them the bad. She hits some commands on the screen, pulls back to reveal a couple of other planets near Miranda.
ZOE: This is us, see? And here's Miranda. All along here, this dead space in between, that's Reaver territory.
WASH: They just float out there, sending out raiding parties
ZOE: Maybe a hundred ships. And more every year. You go through that you're signing up to be a banquet.
WASH: I'm on board with the run and hide scenario and we are just He looks at his monitors, looks ahead.
WASH: ( CONTINUING ) EXT. MINING CAMP - DAY The ship swings around a mountain to come into view of the I s
WAIT: EXT. MINING CAMP - DAY The ship swings around a mountain to come into view of the I s
KAYLEE: Shepherd? Shepherd Book! She stops, looking at the ground by the steeple. There is the body on the ground, face down. The child she played with at dinner. Kaylee stares, at first uncomprehending. ANGLE: MAL, moving in the other direction, approaches the cannon, Jayne behind him. He stops and sees: Book, lying by the cannon, torn up badly from the waist down.
4 MAL: ( to Jayne ) Get the Doc. He moves to the Shepherd, grabs his searching hand.
MAL: ( CONTINUING ) Shepherd. Don't move.
BOOK: Won't go far.
MAL: Shouldn't've been you. I'm so sorry, it was. they should've hit us. They should've hit me.
BOOK: That crossed my mind.
MAL: I seen.
BOOK: I killed the ship. that killed us. Not. very Christian of me.
MAL: You did what's right.
BOOK: ( not unkindly ) Coming from you, that means. almost nothing. HNAAH! Ah, I'm long gone.
MAL: Doc'll bring you round. I look to be bored by many more sermons 'fore you slip don't move
BOOK: Can't. order me around, boy. I'm not one of your crew.
MAL: Yes you are. Book coughs up blood, grabbing Mal. Urgent, almost angry.
BOOK: You. it's on you now. all this death, this shit. you have to find a course. This can't mean nothing. River. you have to.
MAL: Come on, keep it up Book grabs Mal's face, talks as though replying to something:
BOOK: I don't care what you believe! Just. believe it. Whatever you have to. His breathing becomes laboured. Hitched. Stopped. His hand slips away, his blood leaving a distinct print on Mal's face. Jayne and Simon run up,Simon slowing down going to the e he's-dead.Zne -„a r.7-1, ;,,,r them as Jayne looks around him, Mal still fixed on Book.
AD: How come they ain't waiting? They know'd we was coming, how come they only sent one?
JAYNE: How come they ain't waiting? They know'd we was coming, how come they only sent one?
MO: Zoe realizes the answer, turns to Wash.
ZOE: Get on the Cortex. Wave the Sanchez brothers, Li Shen anyone whose ever sheltered us after a heist. Tell them to get out. Get out now.
THE OPERATIVE: V0 I'm sorry. But I cannot let you hide and I cannot let you run. Things become. extreme. And we wish for another way.
MAL: Don't talk at me like a righteous man. You are a killer of children.
THE OPERATIVE: When God wanted Pharaoh to release His people from bondage you know the story? He didn't ask. He sent his plagues down upon Egypt. That's me, Captain. The path to peace is paved with corpses. It's always been so.
MAL: So me and mine got to lie down and
THE OPERATIVE: I'm not going to live there. How could you think there's no place for me there, any more than 40 there is for you. Malcolm, I'm a monster. What I do is evil, I've no illusions about it. But it must be done.
MAL: Why? Do you know why?
THE OPERATIVE: It's not my place to ask.
MAL: You will never see River Tam. I'm telling you this.
THE OPERATIVE: Maybe not. But you'll keep her close now, and when I blow Serenity out of the air, this will be ended. You're so terribly out of your depth, Captain. Your old boat can't take the pressure.
MAL: She ain't buckled yet. And the 40 only reason you're talking such a lot is you can't get a fix on us.
THE OPERATIVE: Yes, your scrambler's code is too old for our seekers. You love that, yes? The small triumph over modernity. You really are the noble savage.
MAL: Nobody ever calls me noble.
THE OPERATIVE: But that's what's going to kill you, Malcolm. Nobility. It confuses your text, which is self-interest. And sin.
MAL: Only- many-I-know-who still bel i-eved- in sin just died by your hand.
THE OPERATIVE: What do you believe in?
MAL: Not a solitary thing.
THE OPERATIVE: If that were true, you'd be nothing more than a Reaver. Something changes in Mal's expression.
THE OPERATIVE: ( CONTINUING ) But then, maybe you're not that far from Mal flicks a switch and every screen goes dark.
MAL: Get these bodies together.
ZOE: We got time for gravedigging?
MAL: Zoe, you and Simon are gonna rope V0 'em together. Five or six of 'em. I want them laid out on the nose of our ship.
SIMON: Are you insane?
KAYLEE: What do you mean, the bodies.
MAL: Kaylee, I need you to muck the reactor core, just enough to leave a trail and make it read like we're flying without containment, not enough to fry us.
KAYLEE: These people are our friends
MAL: Kaylee, you got a day's work to do and two hours to do it.
MOO: Piece or two of the other ship, stick it on. Any place you can tear hull without inner breach, do that too. ( looking around ) And we're gonna need paint. We're gonna need red paint.
INARA: ( getting it )
ZOE: Sir. Do you really mean to turn our home into an abomination so we can make a suicidal attempt at passing through Reaver space?
MAL: I mean to live. I mean for us to live. The Alliance won't have that, so we go where they won't V0 God's balls, there's no way we're going out there! And everybody ( save River ) is talking at once:
JAYNE: V0 God's balls, there's no way we're going out there! And everybody ( save River ) is talking at once:
SIMON: What's the point of living if you sink to the level of a savage
WASH: Please, we should talk this over
INARA: Please, we should talk this over
JAYNE: I ain't takin' orders from a man has lost his brainstem , -Mal pule-s-his- in his face, steps back, hand on his.
V0: This is how it works. Anybody doesn't wanna fly with me anymore, this is your port of harbour. There's a lot of fine ways to die. I'm not waiting for the Alliance to choose mine. He walks through the group, toward the smashed cockpit of the Alliance fighter. Struggling to get out is the badly wounded pilot. He sees Mal coming and raises his hands in surrender. Mal shoots him in the head, turns back.
MAL: This is how it works. Anybody doesn't wanna fly with me anymore, this is your port of harbour. There's a lot of fine ways to die. I'm not waiting for the Alliance to choose mine. He walks through the group, toward the smashed cockpit of the Alliance fighter. Struggling to get out is the badly wounded pilot. He sees Mal coming and raises his hands in surrender. Mal shoots him in the head, turns back.
MAL: ( CONTINUING ) I mean to confound those killers, and take my shot at getting to Miranda, maybe finding out what all I'm dying for. That's my theme now. So I hear a word out of any of you that ain't helping me out or taking your leave I will fucking shoot you. He grabs a body drops it at Zoe's feet as he heads toward the ship.
MAL: ( CONTINUING ) Get to work.
LOW: He looks up: she's in the corner looking through that trunk of hers, hands on a long oilcloth wrapped around something.
INARA: He looks up: she's in the corner looking through that trunk of hers, hands on a long oilcloth wrapped around something.
MAL: Didn't see you.
I NARA: I figured that.
MAL: Anything of use in there?
INARA: She puts it down and crosses to the bed. He sits by her.
MAL: You don't have to stay in the shuttle, you know. There's empty rooms, if you wanna sleep awhile.
INARA: You think anyone's set to sleep? Simon's portioning out overdoses of morphine, just in case.
MAL: Cheerful fellow. ( looking around ) Did you really miss this place?
INARA: ( rueful smile ) Sometimes. Not so much right now. A beat. He doesn't look at her when he asks:
MAL: Why did you leave? Site does lo9}E-at t -m-
INARA: Why didn't you ask me not to?
MAL: I, uh, I'd better go check on the VW crew. See how the inevitable mutiny is coming along. They both want to say more. They don't. He goes.
THE OPERATIVE: Define "disappeared". The Ensign just looks uncomfortable.
ZOE: Every reading I'm getting says normal. Oceans, land masses. no tectonic instability or radiation.
WASH: Yeah, but no power, either.
MAL: Nothing at all?
WASH: Wait. Something. Might be a beacon, but it's awful weak.
MAL: Find it.
V0 MAL: Gravity's Earthnorm.
ZOE: 02 levels check, pressure. if there's anything wrong the scanner isn't reading it. Mal pulls off his helmet. Breathes, looking around him.
MAL: Well something sure as hell ain't WIDER ANGLE: They're in a CITY. Gleaming metal, spread out for miles in every direction. Portions decimated by fires long since cold, others overgrown with weeds, but mostly intact. But silent, as if trapped in amber.
JAYNE: ai-n-lt the settlement-
ZOE: We flew over at least a dozen cities just as big. Why didn't we hear about this?
A0: Beacon's up ahead.
MAL: Beacon's up ahead.
ZOE: She moves rapidly, gun out, to:
ZOE: ( CONTINUING ) No entry wound, fractures.
MAL: JAYNE ( O . S . ) Got another one! ANGLE: JAYNE is by a downed hovercraft. Inside are three skeletons: two grown-ups and a small child. Clothes in better condition, and again no sign of violence.
A0: JAYNE ( O . S . ) Got another one! ANGLE: JAYNE is by a downed hovercraft. Inside are three skeletons: two grown-ups and a small child. Clothes in better condition, and again no sign of violence.
JAYNE: They's all just sittin'. Didn't ANGLE: RIVER is quietly becoming more and more upset. CLOSE ON: KAYLEE walks in front of an office building, staying away from the cars as she hears:
SIMON: ( seeing it ) Kaylee. Come this way. Come But she looks
KAYLEE: GAAAAaaoh God and steps back, horrified, as the others approach. It's an office. About half the employees are there, in chairs or on the ground, all in the same state as the first fellow. We see ANGLES of the corpses as the gang evaluates.
JAYNE: How come they're preserved?
MAL: Place must've gone hermetic when the power blew. Sealed 'em.
KAYLEE: ( very upset ) What're they doing? What's everybody doing?
SIMON: There's no discoloration, nobody's doubled over or showing signs of There's gasses that kill painless, But they didn't fall down. None of them. They just lay down.
MAL: There's gasses that kill painless, But they didn't fall down. None of them. They just lay down.
INARA: But they didn't fall down. None of them. They just lay down.
SIMON: More than anything, it looks like Anybody want to bet there's plenty of food around?
MAL: Anybody want to bet there's plenty of food around?
INARA: They just lay down. They notice River now, in the middle of the street, keening. She drops to her knees, clutching her head.
RIVER: , make them stop, they're everywhere, every city every house every room, they're all inside me, I can hear them all and they're saying nothing! GET UP! PLEASE, GET THEM UP! , please God make me a ( UPSET ) She's starting to damage my calm.
JAYNE: ( UPSET ) She's starting to damage my calm.
ZOE: She's right! Everybody's dead! This whole world is dead for no Let's get to the beacon.
JAYNE: She's right! Everybody's dead! This whole world is dead for no Let's get to the beacon.
WASH: Let's get to the beacon.
CARON: just a few of the images we've recorded, and you can see it isn't.. it isn't what we thought. There's been no war here, and no terraforming event. The environment is stable. It's the Pax, the G-32 Paxilon Hydroclorate that we added to the air processors. It's. ( tearing up ) .well it works. it was supposed to calm the population, weed out aggression. Make a peaceful. it worked. The people here stopped fighting. And then they stopped everything else. They stopped going to work, stopped breeding. talking. ( trying for control ) There's thirty million people here and they all just let themselves die. They didn't even kill themselves. They just. most starved. When they stopped working the power grids, there were overloads, fires people burned to death sitting in their V0 chairs. Just sitting. There is a loud bang somewhere behind her she starts, gathers herself.
CARON: ( CONTINUING ) I have to be quick. There was no one working the receptors when we landed, so we hit pretty hard. We can't leave. We can't take any of the local transports because. The bang again.
CARON: ( CONTINUING ) There are people. they're not people. about a tenth of a percent of the population had the opposite reaction to the Pax. Their aggressor response increased. beyond madness. They've become.
VJ: CARON ( cont'd ) they've killed most of us. not just killed, they've done. ( QUIETLY ) Reavers. they made them.
V0: ( QUIETLY ) Reavers. they made them.
WASH: ( QUIETLY ) Reavers. they made them.
CARON: I won't live to report this, and we haven't got power to. people have to know. ( loses it here ) We meant it for the best. to make people safer. to. God! She whirls, grabs a gun and fires then aims the gun at her bites her face She screams continuously as the Reaver tops her, biting at her and tearing at her clothes, at her skin.
JAYNE: ( QUIETLY ) Turn it off. Wash does, nobody saying anything.
MAL: I seen so much death. I been on fields carpeted with bodies, friends and enemies I seen men and women blown to messes no further from me than you.
INARA: But every single one of those people died on their feet. ( MORE ) MAL ( cont'd ) Or, hell, running away doing summat to get through. This is.
MAL: But every single one of those people died on their feet. ( MORE ) MAL ( cont'd ) Or, hell, running away doing summat to get through. This is.
V0: MAL ( cont'd ) Or, hell, running away doing summat to get through. This is.
INARA: Mal, I need your help with this. I need you to help me, because I He looks at her, folds her into his arms. Brings her face to his, not kissing but touching, pressing into each other with the urgency of pulsing, necessary life.
SIMON: I'm all right. She looks at him, wet eyes full of clarity.
RIVER: I'm all right. She looks at him, wet eyes full of clarity.
RIVER: ( CONTINUING ) I'm all right.
V0: Wash pulls the recording cylinder out of the console.
MAL: This report is maybe twelve years old. Parliament buried it, and it stayed buried til River dug it up. This is what they feared she knew. And they were right to fear, 'cause there's a universe of folk that are gonna know it too. ( touches the cylinder ) They're gonna see it. Somebody has to speak for these people. He pauses. Everyone waits.
V0: ( CONTINUING ) You all got on this boat for different reasons, but you all V0 come to the same place. So now I'm asking more of you than I have before. Maybe all. 'Cause as sure as I know anything I know this: They will try again. Maybe on another world, maybe on this very ground, swept clean. A year from now, ten, they'll swing back to the belief that they can make people. better. And I do not hold to that. So no more running. I aim to misbehave. There is a beat as he eyes them all.
MAL: ( CONTINUING ) You all got on this boat for different reasons, but you all V0 come to the same place. So now I'm asking more of you than I have before. Maybe all. 'Cause as sure as I know anything I know this: They will try again. Maybe on another world, maybe on this very ground, swept clean. A year from now, ten, they'll swing back to the belief that they can make people. better. And I do not hold to that. So no more running. I aim to misbehave. There is a beat as he eyes them all.
JAYNE: My grandma always told me: if you can't do something smart, do something right. By way of emphasis he loudly cocks his big-ass rifle. Mal takes in the fact that Jayne has spoken for them all.
MAL: That the same grandma told you 4 there was an evil dwarf spirit living in your well?
JAYNE: ( NODDING ) She was a fun grandma.
SIMON: Do we have a plan?
MAL: Mr Universe. We haven't the equipment to broadwave this code, but he can put it on every screen for thirty worlds. He's pretty damn close, too.
RIVER: Based on our orbital trajectories, he reached optimum proximity just before our sunset. If we make a direct run within the hour we're only 67,332 miles out. At full burn we'd reach him inside of three- hours .
WASH: Still got the Reavers, and probably the Alliance between us and him.
ZOE: It's a fair bet the Alliance knows about Mr Universe. They're gonna see this coming.
MAL: He takes a long moment, his jaw tightening imperceptibly.
MAL: ( CONTINUING ) They're not gonna see this coming.
MR UNIVERSE: It's no problem! Bring it on bring it on bring it on! From here to the eyes and ears of the 'verse, that's my motto, or it might be if I start having a motto.
MR UNIVERSE: You're gonna get caught in the ion cloud, it'll play merry hob with your radar, but pretty pretty lights and a few miles after you'll be right in my orbit.
MR UNIVERSE: You'll be the first. CLOSE ON: the Operative's sword, as he unsheathes it.
HELMSMAN: I'm reading activity in the cloud.
THE OPERATIVE: ( into com ) Lock and fire on my command. ( to himself ) You should have let me see her. We should have done this as men. Not with fire.
HELMSMAN: EXT. SPACE - CONTINUING It's the Operative's POV: the swirling Ion cloud as Serenity breaks through and heads at us, fully Reavered out.
THE OPERATIVE: Vessel in range, lock on.
THE OPERATIVE: That's not good.
HELMSMAN: ( FREAKING ) THE OPERATIVE Target the Reavers! ( into com ) Target the Reavers! Target everyone! Somebody FIRE!
THE OPERATIVE: Target the Reavers! ( into com ) Target the Reavers! Target everyone! Somebody FIRE!
MAL: We're too close for them to arm
ZOE: This is gonna be very tight
JAYNE: ( ENTERING ) Hey look, we're upside down. V0 Zoe and Mal shoot a look at Jayne.
WASH: ( to himself ) I am a leaf on the wind, watch how I soar.
MAL: Chickens come home to roost. They are suddenly JOLTED by a glancing blow from another ship Wash struggles to control her
MAL: ( CONTINUING ) The hell
WASH: ( PANICKY ) It's okay! I am a leaf on the ( also panicky ) What does that mean?
MAL: ( also panicky ) What does that mean?
4 WASH: We're fried! I got no control!
MAL: Where's the back up? Where's the back up? He and Wash are frantically flipping buttons the ship whirs to a semblance of life - -
ZOE: Back up reads at 20%.. ( to Wash )- Can you get us down?
WASH: I'm gonna have to glide her in!
ZOE: Will that work?
WASH: 140 Long as that landing strip is made of fluffy pillows.
MAL: ( on the com ) Everybody to the upper decks! Strap yourselves to something!
WASH: I am a leaf on the wind. Watch A massive harpoon CRASHES through the windshield and impales him to his chair. It's as thick around as a telephone pole. Wash has time to open his mouth in surprise before he is dead.
WASH!: She moves to him
ZOE: ( CONTINUING ) Wash baby baby no, come on, you gotta move you gotta move baby VW please Mal rips her away and to the floor as another projectile slams through the window into the wall above them.
JAYNE: The entire crew piles out, all heavily bedecked with weapons.
MAL: Head inside!
V0: INT. BLACK ROOM/INNER HALL - MOMENTS LATER A small double-sized doorway leads to the "Black Room", which is the entrance proper to the facility. Mal hits a button and huge, thick, blast doors open from the sides AND the top and bottom, creating the effect of a square hole getting bigger. The hall itself is smaller than the black room, but still has the arrows on the ceiling, that point to an elevator some fifty feet away.
MAL: Come on. Jayne, rearguard. Zoe slows, looking around her.
ZOE: ( he turns to her ) This is a good hold point_
MAL: We all stay together
ZOE: No. They have to come through here; they'll bottleneck and we can thin 'em out. We get pushed back there's the blast doors.
KAYLEE: I can rig 'em so they won't re- open once they close.
MAL: Then shut 'em and hide til
ZOE: We need to draw them til it's done. This is the place. We'll buy you the time.
JAYNE: ( to the others ) Move those crates back there for cover and make sure they ain't filled with anything goes boom.
KAYLEE: Wait, Wash where's Wash? Nobody ( but River ) realized he wasn't there. Zoe is dead calm. ,No ZOE He ain't comin'. Everybody takes that in, Kaylee's eyes welling up.
JAYNE: Move the gorram crates! Come on! We hear savage SCREAMS from the hanger they're approaching. Mal moves to the door, Jayne beside him.
MAL: Tell me you brought 'em this Jayne smiles grimly, tosses Mal a grenade as he pops his own and fastballs it at the Reavers.
J: It explodes in their midst, smoke and man-parts flying about. Mal rolls his a shorter distance, then slams the door shut.
MAL: ( continuing; moving back to Zoe ) Zoe. are you here? She looks up at him.
ZOE: Do the job, sir.
MAL: You hold. Hold till I'm back. He takes off passes Inara, the two of them holding a look for as long as they can. Then he's in the elevator and gone. Jayne moves over to Zoe.
JAYNE: Captain's right. Can't be thinking on revenge if we're gonna get through this.
ZOE: You really think any of us are gonna get through this? He looks back at their army: A companion, a doctor, a mechanic and a more-than-usually out of it River. A beat, and he looks back at Zoe with forlorn hope:
JAYNE: I might.
V0: Mal comes close. Nothing. He starts to move away again and the lovebot turns her head, her eyes focusing with an audible whir. She speaks with surprisingly realistic expressiveness, and a warped, computery version of Mr Universe's voice.
LOVEBOT: Mal stops.
LOVEBOT: ( CONTINUING ) Guy killed me, Mal. He killed me with a sword. How weird is that? I got. a short span here. they destroyed my equipment but I have a back-up unit. bottom of the complex, right over the generator. Hard to get to. I know they missed it. They can't stop the signal, Mal. They can never stop the signal.
A0: She turns back, powering down. Recording over. A beat, and Mal takes off.
RIVER: I can't shut them up.
SIMON: It's okay. -
RIVER: They're all made up of rage. I A BANG as a body slams against the door.
SIMON: Just stay low. I'm right here.
JAYNE: She picked a sweet bung of a time to go helpless on us.
ZOE: ( calls out ) Jayne and I take the first wave. Nobody shoots less they get past our fire. Simon moves to Kaylee, who is shaky as hell. The bangs on the door continue.
KAYLEE: Oh, I didn't plan on going out like this. I think we did right, I never planned. anything. I just wanted to keep River safe. Spent so much time on Serenity trying to find us a home I never realized I already had. She looks at him with soft surprise.
SIMON: I never planned. anything. I just wanted to keep River safe. Spent so much time on Serenity trying to find us a home I never realized I already had. She looks at him with soft surprise.
SIMON: ( CONTINUING ) My one true regret in all this is never being with you.
KAYLEE: With me? You mean to say, as, sex?
SIMON: ( SMILES ) I mean to say. Kaylee snaps her cartridge home with way more precision than we might expect from her, takes steady aim at the door.
KAYLEE: Hell with this. I'm gonna live. Simon looks at her a moment, then turns his attention to the Inara come up into frame with the contents of the oilcloth: a bow and arrow, which she pulls back with focused grace. ANGLE: THE DOOR starts to come off its hinges.
LOVEBOT: ( The Operative turns ) Guy killed me, Mal.
MAL: ( The Operative turns ) Guy killed me, Mal.
MAL: Hard to get to. That's a fact.
JAYNE: Zoe. Gorramnit. But she is in a trance, and we see beneath the calm, to the bubbling magma of rage that keeps her firing, single shots, each one a kill, till five men down and she's out of ammo. The sixth comes at her swinging a blade and she blocks, the precision of military training still in her as she flips him, wresting the blade free and swinging it down out of frame, bringing it up bloody, swinging again as the door bursts open and she's rushed from behind - moving forward himself
J: ( CONTINUING ) ZOE! Get yer ass back in the line! vo� She looks up, almost confused and one of Jayne's targets comes back off the ground and slices at her back with a blade, she screams as he cuts deep and an arrow lodges in his neck. Inara pulls up a fresh arrow, shaking only slightly.
JAYNE: ( CONTINUING ) ZOE! Get yer ass back in the line! vo� She looks up, almost confused and one of Jayne's targets comes back off the ground and slices at her back with a blade, she screams as he cuts deep and an arrow lodges in his neck. Inara pulls up a fresh arrow, shaking only slightly.
MAL: ( in pain ) Shot me in the back. I haven't. made you angry, have I? I s
THE OPERATIVE: There's a lot of innocent people in the air being killed right now.
MAL: You have no idea how true that is. There's no wise-ass attitude in him now. They stand, facing off at ten paces.
MAL: ( CONTINUING ) I know the secret now. The truth that burned up River Tam's brain and set you after her. And the rest of the 'verse is gonna know it too. 'Cause they need to.
THE OPERATIVE: You really believe that?
MAL: I do.
THE OPERATIVE: You willing to die for that belief?
MAL: I am. The Operative raises his gun but Mal is the quickdraw master, shoots the gun out of the Operative's hand and gets two hits to the chest ( armored ) before he makes it to cover.
V0: I am. The Operative raises his gun but Mal is the quickdraw master, shoots the gun out of the Operative's hand and gets two hits to the chest ( armored ) before he makes it to cover.
MAL: ( CONTINUING ) Of course, that ain't exactly plan
SIMON: Spine's intact
ZOE: Just gimme a bandage. Simon pulls a spraycan from his bag, sprays the wound with a foam that hardens instantly into an elastic covering.
A0: Oh, now you're likin' guns, huh? He takes a hit in the shoulder, grimaces and keeps firing. River watches, the gun limp in her hand. Kaylee grabs it and starts another round but she's peppered with dart-like projectiles. She screams and drops the weapon, pulling the projectiles from her Inara helps her up, pulls her back as Zoe shouts:
JAYNE: Oh, now you're likin' guns, huh? He takes a hit in the shoulder, grimaces and keeps firing. River watches, the gun limp in her hand. Kaylee grabs it and starts another round but she's peppered with dart-like projectiles. She screams and drops the weapon, pulling the projectiles from her Inara helps her up, pulls her back as Zoe shouts:
ZOE: Everybody fall back! Fall back! Everyone stumbles or is dragged into the inner corridor. Inara hits the controls and the doors start to close, from each side and above and below. Then, when the hole is maybe four by four, they stop.
ZOE: ( CONTINUING ) Jayne! Grenade!
JAYNE: Very last one. He tosses it through the hole. Zoe doesn't even flinch from the blast as she thinks.
ZOE: They're gonna get in
KAYLEE: Can close it. from outside.
ZOE: No one's coming back from that. She tries to stand, fails.
ZOE: ( CONTINUING ) How much ammo do we have?
JAYNE: We got three full cartridges and my swingin' cod. That's all. Inara is by the elevator, pounding for it to come.-
INARA: Lift isn't moving.
ZOE: When they come, try to plug the hole with 'em. Kaylee cries out and Simon moves to her.
KAYLEE: I'm starting to lose some feeling here. I think there's something in them darts they throwed at me.
SIMON: Lie still. I'm gonna give you something to counteract the He stands, looking around him. His bag is over by Zoe.
SIMON: ( CONTINUING ) My bag. and SHKOWW!, the bullet takes him in the belly everything suddenly moving very slowly as he spins slightly, one foot lifted, a confused expression on his face then speeding right back up as he slams down on his back, gasping for air. River's mouth opens in a scream she doesn't make. Blood spreads from Simon's belly. Inara rushes to him, grabs cloth and puts pressure on the wound, puts Simon's hand on it.
INARA: Keep pressure here.
SIMON: My bag. Need. adrenaline. and a shot of calaphar for Kaylee. I can't. River.? She is by his side, takes his hand. She has a kind of serenity to her, like she understands something now.
SIMON: ( CONTINUING ) River. I'm sorry.
RIVER: No. No. The lights go out. Everyone looks about them. Jayne fires again, but all the sound has bled out save these two.
SIMON: I hate to. leave.
RIVER: You won't. You take care of me, Simon. You've always taken care of me. She stands as the emergency lights come on, giving her face an unearthly glow as she looks down at him.
RIVER: ( CONTINUING ) My turn. She's running so fast, nobody has time to react til she DIVES through the hole in the doors, then Simon SCREAMS her name, the scream following us back into the Black Room where River lands in a perfect roll, comes up in a room full of Reavers. Without a moment's hesitation she makes it to the panel, gets the doors closing. She dodges a blade, but a blow to,the back of the head shakes her. She weaves around a couple of Reavers to get to the closing doors, but at the last second her ankle is grabbed and pulled out from under her. The last thing we see is her being dragged back as they swarm over her. ANGLE: THE BLAST DOORS, as they shut with a shuddering RLUNG.
MO: Mal looks at the Operative a moment and the sword slides all the way through Mal's belly. Mal's eyes go wide.
THE OPERATIVE: You know what your sin is, Malcolm?
MAL: ( shaky smile ) Aw hell, I'm a fan of all seven. He headbutts the Operative viciously, then punches him so hard he staggers back, losing his grip on the sword. The Operative responds with a spin kick Mal holds up the screwdriver and the Operative swings his foot right into it, gasping as Mal pulls the screwdriver and leg it's stuck in back as he rockets his fist into the Operative's chin. The Operative goes down hard, dazed, as Mal grabs the sword still in his belly.
MAL: ( CONTINUING ) But right now. He pulls the sword out, grimacing. Holds it over the Operative. The smile gone.
MAL: ( CONTINUING ) vao I'm gonna have to go with Wrath. He stabs down at his foe's face but the Operative rolls out of the way, kicks Mal from the ground and is up in a second, grabbing Mal's sword hand the sword drops and punching him repeatedly in his stomach wound.
JAYNE: You suppose he got through? Think Mal got the word out?
ZOE: ( almost convincingly ) He got through. I know he got INT. BASEMENT, OVER THE GENERATOR - CONTINUING Mal goes down hard, spitting up blood. He sees the sword, moves but the Operative kicks him in the face. Picks him lod up, Mal too tired to throw a decent punch.
VO: INT. BASEMENT, OVER THE GENERATOR - CONTINUING Mal goes down hard, spitting up blood. He sees the sword, moves but the Operative kicks him in the face. Picks him lod up, Mal too tired to throw a decent punch.
THE OPERATIVE: I'm sorry. The Operative spins him and DIGS his bunched fingers right into the same nerve cluster that he paralyzed Doctor Mathias with. Mal goes rigid, his face a rictus of pain. The Operative goes near the railing and retrieves his sword. Mal trembles, trying to move but nothing happens.
THE OPERATIVE: ( CONTINUING ) You should know there's no shame in this. You've done remarkable things. But you're fighting a war you've already lost. He lunges and Mal twists gracefully out of the way, grabbing the Operative's swordhand and pulling it forward while driving his elbow into the Operative's neck with staggering force.
MAL: Iwo Well, I'm known for that. The Operative drops the blade, mouth open, stumbling back, unable to make a sound. Mal spins him, grabbing both his arms and working his own through them in a twisted full nelson then bringing his arms up suddenly, the Operative's mouth going wider as we hear his arms crack. Mal drops him sitting against the railing, picks up his sword, saying:
MAL: ( CONTINUING ) Piece a shrapnel tore up that nerve cluster my first tour. Had it moved. He squats down, looks the Operative in the face.
VO: ( CONTINUING ) Sorry 'bout the throat. Expect you'd wanna say your famous last MW words now. Just one trouble. He reaches over the railing, pulls the back of the Operative's jacket through and shoves the sword through the fabric, pinning the Operative in his sitting position.
MAL: ( CONTINUING ) Sorry 'bout the throat. Expect you'd wanna say your famous last MW words now. Just one trouble. He reaches over the railing, pulls the back of the Operative's jacket through and shoves the sword through the fabric, pinning the Operative in his sitting position.
MAL: ( CONTINUING ) I ain't gonna kill you. He moves to the console, starts prepping it.
MAL: ( CONTINUING ) Hell, I'm gonna grant your greatest wish. He inserts the cylinder, turns it slightly. It hums to life.
MAL: ( CONTINUING ) I'm gonna show you a world without He hits "send all". The cylinder lights up and the broadcast V0 begins. Here it is projected as a two-dimensional image on
ZOE: 140 MAL It's done. Report? Zoe looks at the badly wounded Simon, is about to give a report and the doors start to open behind her. Everyone turns to look, those who can feebly raising weapons, as the square iris of the opening blast doors widens to reveal River, standing alone. She is holding two Reaver blades, is bloody but unbowed. And the only one alive. We hold on her a moment, then the wall behind her is ripped completely away. Behind it, grappling hooks chained to a huge tractor pull the wall away as through the smoke come some fifteen Alliance soldiers, who line up, rifles trained on our gang.
140 MAL: It's done. Report? Zoe looks at the badly wounded Simon, is about to give a report and the doors start to open behind her. Everyone turns to look, those who can feebly raising weapons, as the square iris of the opening blast doors widens to reveal River, standing alone. She is holding two Reaver blades, is bloody but unbowed. And the only one alive. We hold on her a moment, then the wall behind her is ripped completely away. Behind it, grappling hooks chained to a huge tractor pull the wall away as through the smoke come some fifteen Alliance soldiers, who line up, rifles trained on our gang.
SOLDIER: Drop your weapons! Drop 'em now!
ANOTHER SOLDIER: Do we engage? Do we engage?
V0: A beat, and River's head appears from the crawlspace above, looking down at them with detached curiosity.
MAL: If you're here to tell me we ain't finished. then we will be real The Operative stands just under the canopy of the nose of the ship, framed by the rain behind.
THE OPERATIVE: Do you know what an uproar you've caused? Protests, riots cries for a recall of the entire ( TURNING ) We've seen the broadwaves.
MAL: ( TURNING ) We've seen the broadwaves.
THE OPERATIVE: You must be pleased.
MAL: 'Verse wakes up a spell. Won't be long 'fore she rolls right over and falls back asleep. Taint my THE OPERATIVE I can't guarantee they won't come after you. The Parliament. They have a hundred men like me and they are not forgiving.
THE OPERATIVE: I can't guarantee they won't come after you. The Parliament. They have a hundred men like me and they are not forgiving.
MAL: That don't bode especially well for you. giving the order to let us go, patching up our hurt.
THE OPERATIVE: I told them the Tams were no longer a threat damage done.
VO: THE OPERATIVE ( cont'd ) They might listen, but. I think they know I'm no longer their man.
W MAL: They take you down, I don't expect to grieve overmuch. Like to kill you myself, I see you again.
THE OPERATIVE: You won't. There is. ( small, grim smile ) .nothing left to see. Mal looks at him a moment, then picks up his gear to head inside. The Operative starts away into the rain, then stops to look up at the nose of the ship. ANGLE: the newly painted Serenity, standing tall in the rain.
THE OPERATIVE: ( CONTINUING ) "Serenity". You lost everything in that battle. Everything you had, everything you were. how did you go on? Mal hits the button to close the inner doors, steps inside as they slide together. Glances at the Operative, unimpressed.
VAO: You still standing there when the engine starts, you never will figure it out. The Operative watches the door shut. A moment, and he goes.
MAL: You still standing there when the engine starts, you never will figure it out. The Operative watches the door shut. A moment, and he goes.
MAL: ( to himself ) What a whiner.
ZOE: Sir, we have a green light. Inspection's pos and we're clear for upthrust.
MAL: Think she'll hold together?
J: She's tore up plenty. But she'll fly true.
ZOE: She's tore up plenty. But she'll fly true.
VW: A beat between them before:
MAL: Make sure everything's secure. Could be bumpy.
ZOE: Always is. She takes off and Mal heads up the stairs.
MAL: We're taking her out. Should be about a day's ride to get you back to your girls.
INARA: ( moving past her ) You ready to get off this heap and back to a civilized life?
VW: ( moving past her ) You ready to get off this heap and back to a civilized life?
MAL: ( moving past her ) You ready to get off this heap and back to a civilized life?
INARA: I, uh. ( he stops ) I don't know. He looks at her, a smile in his eyes.
MAL: Good answer. He turns and heads into the bridge.
MAL: You gonna ride shotgun, help me V0 River is in the copilot's seat, looking intently at the screens and buttons.
RIVER: That's the plan.
MAL: Think you can work out how to get her in the She is flipping switches without even looking, as the ship hums to life.
MAL: Okay, clearly some aptitude for the. but it ain't all buttons A0 and charts, . You know what the first rule of flying is? Well, I suppose you do, since you already know what I'm about to say.
RIVER: I do. But I like to hear you say He looks out at the rain on his windows, at his screens, taking her up as he says:
MAL: Love. You can learn all the math in the 'verse, but you take a boat in the air you don't love, she'll shake you off just as sure as the turning of worlds. Love keeps her in the air when she oughta fall down, tells you she's hurting 'fore she keens. Makes her a home. River also looks out at the sky.
RIVER: Storm's getting worse.
MAL: We'll pass through it soon enough.
THE END: Writers : Joss Whedon
