ANDY DUFRESNE: is on the witness stand, hands folded, suit and tie pressed, hair meticulously combed. He speaks in soft, measured tones:
ANDY: It was very bitter. She said she was glad I knew, that she hated all the sneaking around. She said she wanted a divorce in Reno.
ANDY: I told her I would not grant one.
ANDY: If they say so. I really don't remember. I was upset.
ANDY: She packed a bag and went to stay with Mr. Quentin.
ANDY: I went to a few bars first. Later, I decided to drive to Mr. Quentin's home and confront them. They weren't there.so I parked my car in the turnout.and waited.
ANDY: I'm not sure. I was confused. Drunk. I think mostly I wanted to scare them.
ANDY: Yes. I did.
ANDY: No. I was sobering up. I realized she wasn't worth it. I decided to let her have her quickie divorce.
ANDY: I did not. I got back in the car and drove home to sleep it off. Along the way, I stopped and threw my gun into the Royal River. I feel I've been very clear on this point.
ANDY: ( softly ) Yes. It does.
ANDY: Yes. It does.
ANDY: Strike me as a fantastic coincidence.
ANDY: It's the truth.
ANDY: ( faint, bitter smile ) Since I am innocent of this crime, sir, I find it decidedly inconvenient the gun was never found.
JUDGE: You strike me as a particularly icy and remorseless man, Mr. Dufresne. It chills my blood just to look at you. By the power vested in me by the State of Maine, I hereby order you to serve two life sentences, back to back, one for each of your victims. So be it. He raps his gavel as we
MAN #1: Red sits, tries not to slouch. The chair is uncomfortable.
MAN #2: We see by your file you've served twenty years of a life sentence.
MAN #3: You feel you've been rehabilitated?
RED: Yes, sir. Absolutely. I've learned my lesson. I can honestly say I'm a changed man. I'm no longer a danger to society. That's the God's honest truth. No doubt about it. The men just stare at him. One stifles a yawn.
CON: Fresh fish! Fresh fish today! Red is joined by HEYWOOD, SKEET, FLOYD, JIGGER, ERNIE, SNOOZE. Most cons crowd to the fence to gawk and jeer, but Red and his group mount the bleachers and settle in comfortably.
TOWER GUARD: All clear! GUARDS approach the bus with carbines. The door jerks open. The new fish disembark, chained together single-file, blinking sourly at their surroundings. Andy stumbles against the MAN in front of him, almost drags him down. BYRON HADLEY, captain of the guard, slams his baton into Andy's back. Andy goes to his knees, gasping in pain. JEERS and SHOUTS from the spectators.
HADLEY: On your feet before I fuck you up so bad you never walk again.
RED: There they are, boys. The Human Charm Bracelet.
HEYWOOD: Never seen such a sorry-lookin' heap of maggot shit in my life.
JIGGER: Comin' from you, Heywood, you being so pretty and all.
FLOYD: Takin' bets today, Red?
RED: ( pulls notepad and pencil ) Bear Catholic? Pope shit in the woods? Smokes or coin, bettor's choice.
FLOYD: Smokes. Put me down for two.
RED: High roller. Who's your horse?
FLOYD: That gangly sack of shit, third from the front. He'll be the first.
HEYWOOD: Bullshit. I'll take that action.
ERNIE: Me too. Other hands go up. Red jots the names.
HEYWOOD: You're out some smokes, son. Take my word.
FLOYD: You're so smart, you call it.
HEYWOOD: I say that chubby fat-ass.let's see.fifth from the front. Put me down for a quarter deck.
RED: That's five cigarettes on Fat-Ass. Any takers? More hands go up. Andy and the others are paraded along, forced by their chains to take tiny baby steps, flinching under the barrage of jeers and shouts. The old-timers are shaking the fence, trying to make the newcomers shit their pants. Some of the new fish shout back, but mostly they look terrified. Especially Andy.
SKEET: What say, Red?
RED: Little fella on the end. Definitely. I stake half a pack. Any takers?
SNOOZE: Rich bet.
RED: C'mon, boys, who's gonna prove me Floyd, Skeet, Joe, Heywood. Four brave souls, ten smokes apiece. That's it, gentlemen, this window's closed. Red pockets his notepad. A VOICE comes over the P.A. speakers: Return to your cellblocks for evening count.
HADLEY: Eyes front. WARDEN SAMUEL NORTON strolls forth, a colorless man in a gray suit and a church pin in his lapel. He looks like he could piss ice water. He appraises the newcomers with flinty eyes.
NORTON: This is Mr. Hadley, captain of the guard. I am Mr. Norton, the warden. You are sinners and scum, that's why they sent you to me. Rule number one: no blaspheming. I'll not have the Lord's name taken in vain in my prison. The other rules you'll figure out as you go along. Any questions?
CON: When do we eat? Cued by Norton's glance, Hadley steps up to the con and screams right in his face:
HADLEY: YOU EAT WHEN WE SAY YOU EAT! YOU PISS WHEN WE SAY YOU PISS! YOU SHIT WHEN WE SAY YOU SHIT! YOU SLEEP WHEN WE SAY YOU SLEEP! YOU MAGGOT- DICK MOTHERFUCKER! Hadley rams the tip of his club into the con's belly. The man falls to his knees, gasping and clutching himself. Hadley takes his place at Norton's side again. Softly:
DICK MOTHERFUCKER!: Hadley rams the tip of his club into the con's belly. The man falls to his knees, gasping and clutching himself. Hadley takes his place at Norton's side again. Softly:
NORTON: Any other questions? I believe in two things. Discipline and the Bible. Here, you'll receive Put your faith in the Lord. Your ass belongs to me. Welcome to Off with them clothes! And I didn't say take all day doing it, did I? The men shed their clothes. Within seconds, all stand naked.
HADLEY: Off with them clothes! And I didn't say take all day doing it, did I? The men shed their clothes. Within seconds, all stand naked.
HADLEY: First man into the shower! Hadley shoves the FIRST CON into a steel cage open at the front. TWO GUARDS open up with a fire hose. The con is slammed against the back of the cage, sputtering and hollering. Seconds later, the water is cut and the con yanked out.
HADLEY: Delouse that piece of shit! Next man in! The con gets a huge scoop of white delousing powder thrown all over him. Gasping and coughing, blinking powder from his eyes, he gets shoved to a trustee's cage. The TRUSTEE slides a short stack of items through the slot prison clothes and a Bible. All the men are processed quickly a blast of water, powder, clothes and a Bible.
DOCTOR: Bend over. The con does. A GUARD with a penlight in his teeth spreads his cheeks, peers up his ass, and nods. Andy is next up. He gets the same treatment.
GUARD: That's lights out! Good night, ladies. The lights bump off in sequence. The guard exits, footsteps echoing away. Darkness now. Silence. CAMERA CRANES UP the tiers toward Red's cell.
HEYWOOD: AND IT'S FAT-ASS BY A NOSE.' 29 INT CELLBLOCK NIGHT ( 1947 ) 29 The place goes nuts. Fat-Ass throws himself screaming against the bars. The entire block starts CHANTING:
VOICES: Fresh fish.fresh fish.fresh fish.fresh fish.
HADLEY: What the Christ is this happy shit?
HADLEY: ( to the unseen wit ) You'll be tellin' him with my baton up your ass! Hadley arrives at Fat-Ass' cell, bellowing through the bars:
HADLEY: What's your malfunction you fat fuckin' barrel of monkey-spunk?
HADLEY: I ain't gonna count to three! Not even to one! Now shut the fuck up 'fore I sing you a lullabye! Fat-Ass keeps blubbering and wailing. Total freak-out. Hadley draws his baton, gestures to his men. Open it. A GUARD unlocks the cell. Hadley pulls Fat-Ass out and starts beating him with the baton, brutally raining blows. Fat-Ass falls, tries to crawl. The place goes dead silent. All we hear now is the dull THWACK-THWACK-THWACK of the baton. Fat-ass passes out. Hadley gets in a few more licks and finally stops.
HADLEY: Get this tub of shit down to the If I hear so much as a mouse fart in here the rest of the night, by God and Sonny Jesus, you'll all visit the infirmary. Every last motherfucker here. The guards wrestle Fat-Ass onto a stretcher and carry him off. FOOTSTEPS echo away. Lights off. Darkness again. Silence.
BROOKS: You gonna eat that?
ANDY: Hadn't planned on it.
BROOKS: You mind? Andy passes the maggot to Brooks. Brooks examines it, rolling it between his fingertips like a man checking out a fine cigar. Andy is riveted with apprehension.
BROOKS: Mmm. Nice and ripe. Andy can't bear to watch. Brooks opens up his sweater and feeds the maggot to a baby crow nestled in an inside pocket. Andy breathes a sigh of relief.
BROOKS: Jake says thanks. Fell out of his nest over by the plate shop. I'm lookin' after him till he's old enough to fly. Andy nods, proceeds to eat. Carefully. Heywood approaches.
JIGGER: Oh, Christ, here he comes.
HEYWOOD: Mornin', boys. It's a fine mornin'. You know why it's fine? Heywood plops his tray down, sits. The men start pulling out cigarettes and handing them down.
HEYWOOD: That's right, send 'em all down. I wanna see 'em lined up in a row, pretty as a chorus line. An impressive pile forms. Heywood bends down and inhales deeply, smelling the aroma. Rapture.
FLOYD: Smell my ass.
HEYWOOD: Gee, Red. Terrible shame, your horse comin' in last and all. Hell, I sure do love that horse of mine. I believe I owe that boy a big sloppy kiss when I see him.
RED: Give him some'a your cigarettes instead, cheap bastard.
HEYWOOD: Say Tyrell, you pull infirmary duty this week? How's that winnin' horse of mine, anyway?
TYRELL: ( the men fall silent ) Hadley busted his head pretty good. Doc already went home for the night. Poor bastard lay there till this morning. By then. He shakes his head, turns back to his food. The silence mounts. Heywood glances around. Men resume eating. Softly:
ANDY: What was his name?
HEYWOOD: What? What'd you say?
ANDY: I was wondering if anyone knew his What the fuck you care, new fish? Doesn't matter what his fuckin' name was. He's dead.
HEYWOOD: What the fuck you care, new fish? Doesn't matter what his fuckin' name was. He's dead.
BOGS: You're some sweet punk. You been broke in yet? Andy tries to step past them. He gets shoved around, nothing serious, just some slap and tickle. Jackals sizing up prey.
BOGS: Hard to get. I like that. Andy breaks free, flushed and shaking. He hurries off, leaving the three Sisters laughing.
ANDY: ( offers his hand ) Hello. I'm Andy Dufresne. Red glances at the hand, ignores it. The game continues.
RED: The wife-killin' banker.
ANDY: How do you know that?
RED: I keep my ear to the ground. Why'd you do it?
ANDY: I didn't, since you ask.
RED: Hell, you'll fit right in, then. Everyone's innocent in here, don't you know that? Heywood! What are you in for, boy?
HEYWOOD: Didn't do it! Lawyer fucked me! Red gives Andy a look. See?
ANDY: What else have you heard?
RED: People say you're a cold fish. They say you think your shit smells sweeter than ordinary. That true?
ANDY: What do you think?
RED: Ain't made up my mind yet. Heywood nudges Jigger. Watch this. He winds up and throws the ball hard right at Andy's head. Andy sees it coming out of the corner of his eye, whirls and catches it. Beat. He sends the ball right back, zinging it into Heywood's hands. Heywood drops the ball and grimaces, wringing his stung hands.
ANDY: I understand you're a man who knows how to get things.
RED: I'm known to locate certain things from time to time. They seem to fall into my hands. Maybe it's 'cause I'm Irish.
ANDY: I wonder if you could get me a What is it and why?
RED: What is it and why?
ANDY: You make your customers' motives a part of your business?
RED: If you wanted a toothbrush, I wouldn't ask questions. I'd just quote a price. A toothbrush, see, is a non-lethal sort of object.
ANDY: Fair enough. A rock-hammer is about eight or nine inches long. Looks like a miniature pickaxe, with a small sharp pick on one end, and a blunt hammerhead on the other. It's for rocks.
RED: Andy squats, motions Red to join him. Andy grabs a handful of dirt and sifts it through his hands. He finds a pebble and rubs it clean. It has a nice milky glow. He tosses it to Red.
RED: Quartz, sure. And look. Mica. Shale. Silted granite. There's some graded limestone, from when they cut this place out of the hill.
ANDY: Quartz, sure. And look. Mica. Shale. Silted granite. There's some graded limestone, from when they cut this place out of the hill.
RED: I'm a rockhound. At least I was, in my old life. I'd like to be again, on a limited scale.
ANDY: I'm a rockhound. At least I was, in my old life. I'd like to be again, on a limited scale.
RED: Yeah, that or maybe plant your toy in somebody's skull?
ANDY: I have no enemies here.
RED: No? Just wait. Red flicks his gaze past Andy. Bogs is watching them.
RED: Word gets around. The Sisters have taken a real shine to you, yes they have. Especially Bogs.
ANDY: Tell me something. Would it help if I explained to them I'm not Neither are they. You have to be human first. They don't qualify. Bull queers take by force, that's all they want or understand. I'd grow eyes in the back of my head if I were you.
RED: Neither are they. You have to be human first. They don't qualify. Bull queers take by force, that's all they want or understand. I'd grow eyes in the back of my head if I were you.
ANDY: Thanks for the advice.
RED: That comes free. But you understand my concern.
ANDY: If there's trouble, I doubt a rock- hammer will do me any good.
RED: Then I guess you wanna escape. Tunnel under the wall maybe? I miss the joke. What's so funny?
ANDY: You'll know when you see the rock-
RED: What's this item usually go for?
ANDY: Seven dollars in any rock and gem shop.
RED: My standard mark-up's twenty percent, but we're talkin' about a special object. Risk goes up, price goes up. Call it ten bucks even.
ANDY: Ten it is.
RED: I'll see what I can do. But it's a waste of money.
ANDY: Folks who run this place love surprise inspections. They turn a blind eye to some things, but not a gadget like that. They'll find it, and you'll lose it. Mention my name, we'll never do business again. Not for a pair of shoelaces or a stick of gum.
RED: Folks who run this place love surprise inspections. They turn a blind eye to some things, but not a gadget like that. They'll find it, and you'll lose it. Mention my name, we'll never do business again. Not for a pair of shoelaces or a stick of gum.
ANDY: I understand. Thank you, Mr.?
RED: Red. The name's Red.
ANDY: Red. I'm Andy. Pleasure doing business with you. They shake. Andy strolls off. Red watches him go.
TIGHT ANGLE: and more than clean laundry changes hands. Two packs of cigarettes slide out of Red's hand into Leonard's.
RED: Brooks nods, never missing a beat. He rolls his cart to Andy's cell, mutters through the bars:
BROOKS: Middle shelf, wrapped in a towel. Andy's hand snakes through the bars and makes the object disappear. The hand comes back and deposits a small slip of folded paper along with more cigarettes. Brooks turns his cart around and goes back. He pauses, sorting his books long enough for Red to snag the slip of paper. Brooks continues on, scooping the cigarettes off the cart and into his pocket.
BOB: DUFRESNE! WE'RE LOW ON HEXLITE! HEAD ON BACK AND FETCH US UP SOME! Andy nods. He leaves the line, weaving his way through the laundry room and into
ANDY: You get this in your eyes, it blinds you.
BOGS: Honey, hush. Andy backs up, holding them at bay, trying to maneuver through the maze. The Sisters keep coming, tense and guarded, eyes riveted and gauging his every move, trying to outflank him. Andy trips on some old gaint sugglies. That's all it takes. They're on him in an instant, kicking and stomping. Andy gets yanked to his feet. Bogs applies a chokehold from behind. They propel him across the room and slam him against an old four-pocket machine, bending him over it. Rooster jams a rag into Andy's mouth and secures it with a steel pipe, like a horse bit. Andy kicks and struggles, but Rooster and Pete have his arms firmly pinned. Bogs whispers in Andy's ear:
BOGS: That's it, fight. Better that way. Andy starts screaming, muffled by the rag. CAMERA PULLS BACK, SLOWLY WIDENING. The big Washex blocks our view. All we see is Andy's screaming face and the men holding him down. .and CAMERA DRIFTS FROM THE ROOM, leaving the dark place and the dingy act behind.MOVING up empty corridors, past concrete walls and steel pipes.
NORTON: .the roof of the license-plate factory needs resurfacing. I need a dozen volunteers for a week's work. We're gonna be taking names in this steel bucket here. Red glances around at his friends. Andy also catches his eye.
HADLEY: .so this shithead lawyer calls long distance from Texas, and he says, Byron Hadley? I say, yeah. He says, sorry to inform you, but your brother just died.
YOUNGBLOOD: Damn, Byron. Sorry to hear that.
HADLEY: I ain't. He was an asshole. Run off years ago, family ain't heard of him since. Figured him for dead anyway. So this lawyer prick says, your brother died a rich man. Oil wells and shit, close to a million bucks. Jesus, it's frigging incredible how lucky some assholes can get.
TROUT: A million bucks? Jeez-Louise! You get any of that?
HADLEY: Thirty five thousand. That's what he left me.
TROUT: Dollars? Holy shit, that's great! Like winnin' a lottery. .ain't it?
HADLEY: Dumbshit. What do you figger the government's gonna do to me? Take a big wet bite out of my ass, is what.
TROUT: Oh. Hadn't thought of that.
HADLEY: Maybe leave me enough to buy a new car with. Then what happens? You pay tax on the car. Repairs and maintenance. Goddamn kids pesterin' you to take 'em for a ride.
MERT: And drive it, if they're old enough.
HADLEY: That's right, wanting to drive it, wanting to learn on it, f'Chrissake! Then at the end of the year, if you figured the tax wrong, they make you pay out of your own pocket. Uncle Sam puts his hand in your shirt and squeezes your tit till it's purple. Always get the short end. That's a fact. Some brother. Shit. The prisoners keep spreading tar, eyes on their work.
HEYWOOD: Poor Byron. What terrible fuckin' luck. Imagine inheriting thirty five thousand dollars.
RED: Crying shame. Some folks got it awful bad. Red glances over and is shocked to see Andy standing up, listening to the guards talk.
RED: Hey, you nuts? Keep your eyes on your pail! Andy tosses his Padd in the bucket and strolls toward Hadley.
RED: Andy! Come back! Shit!
SNOOZE: What's he doing?
FLOYD: Gettin' himself killed.
RED: God damn it.
HEYWOOD: Just keep spreadin' tar. The guards stiffen at Andy's approach. Youngblood's hand goes to his holster. The tower guards CLICK-CLACK their rifle bolts. Hadley turns, stupefied to find Andy there.
ANDY: Mr. Hadley. Do you trust your wife?
HADLEY: That's funny. You're gonna look funnier suckin' my dick with no fuckin' teeth.
ANDY: What I mean is, do you think she'd go behind your back? Try to hamstring you?
HADLEY: That's it! Step aside, Mert. This fucker's havin' hisself an accident. Hadley grabs Andy's collar and propels him violently toward the edge of the roof. The cons furiously keep spreading tar.
HEYWOOD: Oh God, he's gonna do it, he's gonna throw him off the roof.
SNOOZE: Oh shit, oh fuck, oh Jesus.
ANDY: Because if you do trust her, there's no reason in the world you can't keep every cent of that money. Hadley abruptly jerks Andy to a stop right at the edge. In fact, Andy's past the edge, beyond his balance, shoetips scraping the roof. The only thing between him and an ugly drop to the concrete is Hadley's grip on the front of his shirt.
HADLEY: You better start making sense.
ANDY: If you want to keep that money, all of it, just give it to your wife. See, the IRS allows you a one-time- only gift to your spouse. It's good up to sixty thousand dollars.
HADLEY: Naw, that ain't right! Tax free?
ANDY: Tax free. IRS can't touch one cent. The cons are pausing work, stunned by this business discussion.
HADLEY: You're the smart banker what shot his wife. Why should I believe a smart banker like you? So's I can wind up in here with you?
ANDY: It's perfectly legal. Go ask the IRS, they'll say the same thing. Actually, I feel silly telling you all this. I'm sure you would have investigated the matter yourself.
HADLEY: Fuckin'-A. I don't need no smart wife-killin' banker to show me where the bear shit in the buckwheat.
ANDY: Of course not. But you will need somebody to set up the tax-free gift, and that'll cost you. A lawyer, for example.
HADLEY: Ambulance-chaaing, highway-robbing .or come to think of it, I suppose I could set it up for you. That would save you some money. I'll write down the forms you need, you can pick them up, and I'll prepare them for your signature. nearly free of charge. I'd only ask three beers apiece for my co-workers, if that seems fair.
ANDY: .or come to think of it, I suppose I could set it up for you. That would save you some money. I'll write down the forms you need, you can pick them up, and I'll prepare them for your signature. nearly free of charge. I'd only ask three beers apiece for my co-workers, if that seems fair.
TROUT: ( guffawing ) Co-workers! Get him! That's rich, ain't it? Co-workers. Hadley freezes him with a look. Andy presses on:
ANDY: I think a nan working outdoors feels more like a man if he can have a bottle of suds. That's only my opinion. The convicts stand gaping, all pretense of work gone. They look like they've been pole-axed. Hadley shoots them a look.
HADLEY: What are you jimmies starin' at? Back to work, goddamn it!
HADLEY: Drink up, boys. While it's cold.
HEYWOOD: ( approaches with a beer ) Here's a cold one, Andy.
ANDY: No thanks. I gave up drinking. Heywood drifts back to others, giving them a look.
RED: King me.
ANDY: Chess. Now there's a game of kings. .and totally fuckin' inexplicable. Hate that game.
RED: .and totally fuckin' inexplicable. Hate that game.
ANDY: Maybe you'll let me teach you someday. I've been thinking of getting a board together.
RED: You come to the right place. I'm the man who can get things.
ANDY: We might do business on a board. But the pieces, I'd like to carve those myself. One side done in quartz. the opposing side in limestone.
RED: That'd take you years.
ANDY: Years I've got. What I don't have are the rocks. Pickings here in the exercise yard are pretty slim.
RED: How's that rock-hammer workin' out anyway? Scratch your name on your wall yet?
ANDY: ( smiles ) Not yet. I suppose I should.
RED: Andy? I guess we're gettin' to be friends, ain't we?
ANDY: I suppose we are.
RED: I ask a question? Why'd you do it?
ANDY: I'm innocent, remember? Just like everybody else here. Red takes this as a gentle rebuff, keeps playing.
ANDY: What are you in for, Red?
RED: Murder. Same as you.
ANDY: The only guilty man in Shawshank.
RED: The only guilty man in Shawshank.
RED: Here's the good part. Bugs come out of the walls to get his ass.
ANDY: I know. I've seen it three times this month already. Ray Milland starts SCREAMING. The entire audience SCREAMS with him, high-pitched and hysterical. Andy fidgets.
ANDY: Can we talk business?
RED: Sure. What do you want?
ANDY: Rita Hayworth. Can you get her?
RED: No problem. Take a few weeks.
ANDY: Don't have her stuffed down my pants this very moment, sorry to say. Relax. What are you so nervous about? She's just a woman. Andy nods, embarrassed. He gets up and hurries out. Red grins, turns back to the movie.
RED: Don't have her stuffed down my pants this very moment, sorry to say. Relax. What are you so nervous about? She's just a woman. Andy nods, embarrassed. He gets up and hurries out. Red grins, turns back to the movie.
BOGS: Take a walk.
PROJECTIONIST: I have to change reels.
BOGS: I said fuck off. Terrified, the old man darts past and out the door. Pete slams and locks it. Bogs shoves Andy to the center of the room.
ANDY: I know. I've seen it three times this month already. Ray Milland starts SCREAMING. The entire audience SCREAMS witt him, high-pitched and hysterical. Andy fidgets.
ANDY: Can we talk business?
RED: Sure. What do you want?
ANDY: Rita Hayworth. Can you get her?
RED: No problem. Take a few weeks.
ANDY: Don't have her stuffed down my pants this very moment, sorry to say. Relax. What are you so nervous about? She's just a woman. Andy nods, embarrassed. He gets up and hurries out. Red grins, turns back to the movie.
RED: Don't have her stuffed down my pants this very moment, sorry to say. Relax. What are you so nervous about? She's just a woman. Andy nods, embarrassed. He gets up and hurries out. Red grins, turns back to the movie.
BOGS: Take a walk.
PROJECTIONIST: I have to change reels.
BOGS: I said fuck off. Terrified, the old man darts past and out the door. Pete slams and locks it. Bogs shoves Andy to the center of the room.
BOGS: Ain't you gonna scream? Andy sighs, cocks his head at the projector.
ANDY: They'd never hear me over that. Let's get this over with. Seemingly resigned, Andy turns around, leans on the rewind bench and curls his fingers around a full 1.000 foot reel of 35mm film. Rooster licks his lips, pushes past the others.
ROOSTER: Me first.
ANDY: Andy whips the reel of film around in a vicious arc, smashing it into Rooster's face and bouncing him off the wall.
ROOSTER: Fuck! Shit! He broke my nose! Andy fights like hell, but is soon overpowered and forced to his knees. Bogs steps to Andy, pulls out an awl with a vicious eight-inch spike, gives him a good long look at it.
BOGS: Now I'm gonna open my fly, and you're gonna swallow what I give you to swallow. And when you d mine, you gonna swallow Rooster's. You done broke his nose, so he ought to have somethin' to show for it.
ANDY: Anything you put in my mouth, you're going to lose.
BOGS: You don't understand. You do that, I'll put all eight inches of this steel ii your ear.
ANDY: Okay. But you should know that sudden serious brain injury causes the victim to bite down. Hard. In fact, I understand the bite-reflex is so strong the victim's jaws have to be pried open with a crowbar. The Sisters consider this carefully. The film runs out of the projector, flapping on the reel. The screen goes white.
BOGS: You little fuck. Andy gets a bootheel in the face. The Sisters start kicking and beating the living shit out of him with anything they can get their hands on. In the theater, the convicts are CHANTING AND CLAPPING for the movie to come back on.
GUARD: Time's up, Bogs.
MERT: Damn, Byron. Look'a that.
HADLEY: Poor fella must'a tripped. A tiny drop of blood drips off the toe of Hadley's shoe and splashes across Red's upturned cheek. He wipes it off, then looks down at Bogs. Cons and guards are racing to the scene.
RED: I'm thinkin' Andy could use a nice welcome back when he gets out of the infirmary.
HEYWOOD: Sounds good to us. Figure we owe him for the beer.
RED: Man likes to play chess. Let's get him some rocks.
FLOYD: That ain't quartz. Nor limestone.
HEYWOOD: What are you, fuckin' geologist?
SNOOZE: He's right, it ain't.
HEYWOOD: What the hell is it then?
RED: Horse apple.
HEYWOOD: No, horse shit. Petrified. Cackling, the men go back to work. Heywood stares at the rock. He crumbles it in his hands.
RED: No, horse shit. Petrified. Cackling, the men go back to work. Heywood stares at the rock. He crumbles it in his hands.
ERNIE: Heads up. They're tossin' cells. Word travels fast from cell to cell. Cons scramble to tidy up and hide things. Norton enters, nods to his men. The guards pair off in all directions, making their choices at random.
GUARD: What kind'a contraband you hiding in there, boy? Cells are opened, occupants displaced, items scattered, mattresses overturned. Whatever contraband is found gets tossed out onto the cellblock floor. Mostly harmless stuff. A GUARD pulls a sharpened screwdriver out of a mattress, shoots a nasty look at the CON responsible.
NORTON: Solitary. A week. Make sure he takes his Bible.
CON: Too goddamn dark to read down there.
NORTON: Add another week for blasphemy. The man is taken away. Norton's gaze goes up.
NORTON: Let's try the second tier.
ANDY: Good evening. Norton gives a curt nod. Hadley and Trout start tossing the cell in a thorough search. Norton keeps his eyes on Andy, looking for a wrong glance or nervous blink. He takes the Bible out of Andy's hand.
NORTON: I'm pleased to see you reading this. Any favorite passages?
ANDY: Watch ye therefore, for ye know not when the master of the house cometh.
NORTON: ( smiles ) Luke. Chapter 13, verse 35. I've always liked that one. ( strolls the cell ) But I prefer: "I am the light of the world. He that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life."
ANDY: John. Chapter 8, verse 12.
NORTON: I hear you're good with numbers. How nice. A man should have a skill.
HADLEY: You wanna explain this? Andy glances over. Hadley is holding up a rock blanket, a polishing cloth roughly the size of an oven mitt.
ANDY: It's called a rock blanket. It's for shaping and polishing rocks. Little hobby of mine. Hadley glances at the rocks lining the window sill, turns to Looks pretty clean. Some contraband here, nothing to get in a twist over. Norton nods, strolls to the poster of Rita.
HADLEY: Looks pretty clean. Some contraband here, nothing to get in a twist over. Norton nods, strolls to the poster of Rita.
NORTON: I can't say I approve of this. .but I suppose exceptions can always be made. Norton exits, the guards follow. The cell door is slammed and locked. Norton pauses, turns back.
NORTON: I almost forgot. He reaches through the bars and returns the Bible to Andy.
NORTON: I'd hate to deprive you of this. Salvation lies within. Norton and his men walk away.
BOB: DUFRESNE! YOU'RE OFF THE LINE! 88 INT WARDEN NORTON'S OFFICE DAY ( 1949 ) 88 Andy is led in. Norton is at his desk doing paperwork. Andy's eyes go to a framed needle-point sampler on the wall behind him that reads: "HIS JUDGMENT COMETH AND THAT RIGHT SOON."
NORTON: My wife made that in church group.
ANDY: It's very pretty, sir.
NORTON: You like working in the laundry?
ANDY: No, sir. Not especially.
NORTON: Perhaps we can find something more befitting a man of your education.
ANDY: Hey, Jake. Where's Brooks? Brooks Hatlen pokes his head out of the back room.
BROOKS: Andy! Thought I heard you out here!
ANDY: I've been reassigned to you.
BROOKS: I know, they told me. Ain't that a kick in the ass? Come on in, I'll give you the dime tour.
BROOKS: Here she is, the Shawshank Prison Library. Along this side, we got the National Geographics. That side, the Reader's Digest Condensed books. Bottom shelf there, some Louis L'Amours and Erle Stanley Gardners. Every night I pile the cart and make my rounds. I write down the names on this clipboard here. Well, that's it. Easy, peasy, Japanesey. Any questions? Andy pauses. Something about this doesn't make any sense.
ANDY: Brooks? How long have you been Since 1912. Yuh, over 37 years.
BROOKS: Since 1912. Yuh, over 37 years.
ANDY: In all that time, have you ever had an assistant?
BROOKS: Never needed one. Not much to it, is there?
ANDY: So why now? Why me?
BROOKS: I dunno. Be nice to have some comp'ny down here for a change.
HADLEY: That's him. That's the one. Hadley exits. Dekins approaches Andy ominously. Andy stands his ground, waiting for whatever comes next. Finally:
DEKINS: I'm Dekins. I been, uh, thinkin' 'bout maybe settin' up some kinda trust fund for my kids' educations. Andy covers his surprise. Glances at Brooks. Brooks smiles.
ANDY: I see. Well. Why don't we have a seat and talk it over?
BROOKS: Pull down one'a them desks there. Andy and Dekins grab a desk standing on end and tilt it to the floor. They find chairs and settle in. Brooks returns with a tablet of paper and a pen, slides them before Andy.
ANDY: What did you have in mind? A weekly draw on your pay?
DEKINS: Yuh. I figured just stick it in the bank, but Captain Hadley said check with you first.
ANDY: He was right. You don't want your money in a bank.
DEKINS: I don't?
ANDY: What's that gonna earn you? Two and a half, three percent a year? We can do a lot better than that. So tell me, Mr. Dekins. Where do you want to send your kids? Harvard? Yale?
FLOYD: He didn't say that!
BROOKS: God is my witness. And Dekins, he just blinks for a second, then laughs his ass off. Afterward, he actually shook Andy's hand.
HEYWOOD: My ass!
BROOKS: Shook his fuckin' hand. Just about shit myself. All Andy needed was a suit and tie, a jiggly little hula girl on his desk, he would'a been Mister Dufresne, if you please.
RED: Makin' yourself some friends, Andy.
ANDY: I wouldn't say "friends." I'm a convicted murderer who provides sound financial planning. That's a wonderful pet to have.
RED: Got you out of the laundry, didn't Maybe it can do more than that. How about expanding the library? Get some new books in there.
ANDY: Maybe it can do more than that. How about expanding the library? Get some new books in there.
HEYWOOD: How you 'spect to do that, "Mr. Ask the warden for funds. LAUGHTER all around. Andy blinks at them.
ANDY: Ask the warden for funds. LAUGHTER all around. Andy blinks at them.
BROOKS: Son, I've had six wardens through here during my tenure, and I have learned one great immutable truth of the universe: ain't one of 'em been born whose asshole don't pucker up tight as a snare drum when you ask for funds.
NORTON: Not a dime. My budget's stretched thin as it is.
ANDY: I see. Perhaps I could write to the State Senate and request funds directly from them.
NORTON: Far as them Republican boys in Augusta are concerned, there's only three ways to spend the taxpayer's hard-earned when it come to prisons. More walls. More bars. More guards.
ANDY: Still, I'd like to try, with your permission. I'll send a letter a week. They can't ignore me forever.
NORTON: They sure can, but you write your letters if it makes you happy. I'll even mail 'em for you, how's that?
ANDY: Moresby Prison issued you that gun, but you actually had to pay for it?
THE BATTER: Damn right, and the holster too.
ANDY: See, that's all deductible. You get to write that off.
ANDY: Say Red, could you hand me a stack of those 1040s?
FLOYD: Red? Andy? It's Brooks.
JIGGER: C'mon, Brooksie, why don't you just calm the fuck down, okay?
BROOKS: Goddamn miserable puke-eatin' sons of whores! He kicks a table over. Tax files explode through the air.
RED: What the hell's going on?
SNOOZE: You tell me, man. One second he was fine, then out came the knife. I better get the guards.
RED: No. We'll handle this. Ain't that right, Brooks? Just settle down and we'll talk about it, okay?
BROOKS: Nothing left to talk about! It's all talked out! Nothing left now but to cut his fuckin' throat!
RED: Why? What's Heywood done to you?
BROOKS: That's what they want! It's the price I gotta pay! Andy steps forward, rivets Brooks with a gaze. Softly:
ANDY: Brooks, you're not going to hurt Heywood, we all know that. Even Heywood knows it, right Heywood?
HEYWOOD: ( nods, terrified ) Sure. I know that. Sure.
ANDY: Why? Ask anyone, they'll tell you. Brooks Hatlen is a reasonable man.
RED: ( cuing nods all around ) Yeah, that's right. That's what everybody says.
ANDY: You're not fooling anybody, so just put the damn knife down and stop scaring the shit out of people.
BROOKS: But it's the only way they'll let me stay. Brooks bursts into tears. The storm is over. Heywood staggers free, gasping for air. Andy takes the knife, passes it to Red. Brooks dissolves into Andy's arms with great heaving sobs.
ANDY: Take it easy. You'll be all right.
HEYWOOD: Him? What about me? Crazy old fool! Goddamn near slit my throat!
RED: You've had worse from shaving. What'd you do to set him off?
HEYWOOD: Nothin'! Just came in to say Ain't you heard? His parole came Red and Andy exchange a surprised look. Andy wants to understand. Red just motions to let it be for now. He puts his arm around Brooks, who sobs inconsolably. Softly:
RED: Ain't that bad, old hoss. Won't be long till you're squiring pretty young girls on your arm and telling 'em lies.
ANDY: I just don't understand what happened in there, that's all.
HEYWOOD: Old man's crazy as a rat in a tin shithouse, is what.
RED: Heywood, enough. Ain't nothing wrong with Brooksie. He's just institutionalized, that's all.
HEYWOOD: Institutionalized, my ass.
RED: Man's been here fifty years. This place is all he knows. In here, he's an important man, an educated man. A librarian. Out there, he's nothing but a used-up old con with arthritis in both hands. Couldn't even get a library card if he applied. You see what I'm saying?
FLOYD: Red, I do believe you're talking out of your ass.
RED: Believe what you want. These walls are funny. First you hate 'em, then you get used to 'em. After long enough, you get so you depend on 'em. That's "institutionalized."
JIGGER: Shit. I could never get that way.
ERNIE: ( softly ) Say that when you been inside as long as Brooks has.
RED: Goddamn right. They send you here for life, and that's just what they take. Part that counts, anyway.
BROOKS: I can't take care of you no more. You go on now. You're free. He tosses Jake through the bars. The crow flaps away.
WOMAN: No music in your room after eight p.m. No guests after nine. No cooking except on the hotplate.
WOMAN: Make sure he double-bags. Last time your man didn't double-bag and the bottom near came out.
MANAGER: You double-bag like the lady says, Yes sir, double-bag, surely will.
BROOKS: Yes sir, double-bag, surely will.
ANDY: P.S. Tell Heywood I'm sorry I put a knife to his throat. No hard feelings. A long silence. Andy folds the letter, puts it away. Softly:
RED: He should'a died in here, goddamn it.
ANDY: Red steps in with an armload of files. Andy gingerly reaches in, grabs a black feathered wing, and pulls out a dead crow.
RED: ( softly ) Is that Jake?
GUARD: Water break! Five minutes! The work stops. Cons head for the pickup truck, where water is dispensed with dipper and pail. Red and the boys look to Andy. Andy nods. Now's the time. The group moves off through the confusion, using it as cover. They head up the slope of a nearby hill and quickly decide on a suitable spot. The guards haven't noticed. Jigger and Floyd start swinging picks into the soft earth, quickly ripping out a hole. Red reaches into his jacket and pulls out a beautiful wooden box, carefully stained and varnished. He shows it around to nods of approval.
ANDY: That's real pretty, Red. Nice work.
HEYWOOD: Shovel man in. Watch the dirt.
YOUNGBLOOD: What the fuck.
HADLEY: ( follows his gaze )
SOMEBODY!: Suddenly, other cons start breaking away in groups, dozens of them heading toward the slope. The guards look around.
HADLEY: What am I, talkin' to myself?
RED: Lord. Brooks was a sinner. Jake was just a crow. Neither was much to look at. Both got institutionalized. See what you can do for 'em. Amen. Muttered "amens" all around. The boys shovel dirt onto the small grave and tamp it down.
HADLEY: Dufresne! What the fuck did you do? Your ass, warden's office, now! Andy shoots a worried look at Red, then heads off.
ANDY: What is all this?
HADLEY: You tell me, fuck-stick! They're addressed to you, every damn one! Wiley thrusts an envelope at Andy. Andy just stares at it.
WILEY: Well, take it. Andy takes the envelope, pulls out a letter, reads:
ANDY: Dear Mr. Dufresne. In response to your repeated inquiries, the State Senate has allocated the enclosed funds for your library project. " This is two hundred dollars. Wiley grins. Hadley glares at him. The grin vanishes.
ANDY: In addition, the Library District has generously responded with a charitable donation of used books and sundries. We trust this will fill your needs. We now consider the matter closed. Please stop sending us letters. Yours truly, the State Comptroller's Office. Andy gazes around at the boxes. The riches of the world lay at his feet. His eyes mist with emotion at the sight.
HADLEY: I want all this cleared out before the warden gets back, I shit you not. Hadley exits. Andy touches the boxes like a love-struck man touching a beautiful woman. Wiley grins.
WILEY: Good for you, Andy.
ANDY: Only took six years. From now on, I send two letters a week instead of one.
WILEY: ( laughs, shakes his head ) I believe you're crazy enough. You better get this stuff downstairs like the Captain said. I'm gonna go pinch a loaf. When I get back, this is all gone, right? Andy nods. Wiley disappears into the toilet, Jughead Comix in hand. Alone now, Andy starts going through the boxes like a starving man exploring packages of food. He doesn't know where to turn first. He gets giddy, ripping boxes open and pulling out books, touching them, smelling them. He rips open another box. This one contains an old phonograph player, industrial gray and green, the words "Portland Public School District" stenciled on the side. The box also contains stacks and stacks of used record albums. Andy reverently slips a stack from the box and starts flipping through them. Used Nat King Coles, Bing Crosbys, etc. He comes across a certain album Mozart's "Le Nozze de Figaro." He pulls it from the stack, gazing upon it as a man transfixed. It is a thing of beauty. It is the Grail.
WILEY: Andy? You hear that?
HEYWOOD: Couldn't play somethin' good, huh? Hank Williams?
ANDY: They broke the door down before I could take requests.
FLOYD: Was it worth two weeks in the hole?
ANDY: Easiest time I ever did.
HEYWOOD: Shit. No such thing as easy time in the hole. A week seems like a year.
ANDY: I had Mr. Mozart to keep me company. Hardly felt the time at all.
RED: Oh, they let you tote that record player down there, huh? I could'a swore they confiscated that stuff.
ANDY: ( taps his heart, his head ) The music was here.and here. That's the one thing they can't confiscate, not ever. That's the beauty of it. Haven't you ever felt that way about music, Red?
RED: Played a mean harmonica as a younger man. Lost my taste for it. Didn't make much sense on the inside.
ANDY: Here's where it makes most sense. We need it so we don't forget.
RED: That there are things in this world not carved out of gray stone. That there's a small place inside of us they can never lock away, and that place is called hope.
ANDY: That there are things in this world not carved out of gray stone. That there's a small place inside of us they can never lock away, and that place is called hope.
RED: Hope is a dangerous thing. Drive a man insane. It's got no place here. Better get used to the idea.
ANDY: ( softly ) Like Brooks did?
MAN #2: You feel you've been rehabilitated?
RED: Yes sir, without a doubt. I can say I'm a changed man. No danger to society, that's the God's honest truth. Absolutely rehabilitated.
RED: Same old, same old. Thirty years. Jesus. When you say it like that.
ANDY: You wonder where it went. I wonder where ten years went. Red nods, solemn. They settle in on the bleachers. Andy pulls a small box from his sweater, hands it to Red.
ANDY: Anniversary gift. Open it. Red does. Inside the box, on a thin layer of cotton, is a shiny new harmonica, bright aluminum and circus-red.
ANDY: Had to go through one of your competitors. Hope you don't mind. Wanted it to be a surprise.
RED: It's very pretty, Andy. Thank you.
ANDY: You gonna play something?
RED: Not today.
HEYWOOD: Treasure Island. Robert Louis.
ANDY: ( jotting ) .Stevenson. Next?
RED: I got here an auto repair manual, and a book on soap carving.
ANDY: Trade skills and hobbies, those go under educational. Stack right behind you.
HEYWOOD: The Count of Monte Crisco.
FLOYD: Cristo, you dumbshit.
HEYWOOD: .by Alexandree Dumb-ass.
ANDY: Dumas. You boys'll like that one. It's about a prison break. Floyd tries to take the book. Heywood yanks it back. I saw it first. Red shoots Andy a look.
RED: Maybe that should go under educational too.
NORTON: .a genuine, progressive advance in corrections and rehabilitation. Our inmates, properly supervised, will be put to work outside these walls performing all manner of public service. Cutting pulpwood, repairing bridges and causeways, digging storm drains. ANGLE TO Red and the boys listening from behind the fence.
NORTON: These men can learn the value of an honest day's labor while providing a valuable service to the community and at a bare minimum of expense to Mr. and Mrs. John Q. Taxpayer!
HEYWOOD: Sounds like road-gangin', you ask me.
RED: Nobody asked you.
WOMAN REPORTER: You there! You men! We're gonna take your picture now!
HEYWOOD: Give us a break, lady.
WOMAN REPORTER: Don't you know who I am? I'm from LIFE magazine! I was told I'd get some co-operation out here! You want me to report you to your warden? Is that what you want?
HEYWOOD: ( sighs ) No, ma'am.
WOMAN REPORTER: That's more like it! Now I want you all in a row with big bright smiles on your faces! Grab hold of your tools and show 'em to me! She turns, motioning her photographer up the grade. Heywood glances around at the other men.
HEYWOOD: You heard the lady. Heywood unzips his pants, reaches inside. The others do likewise. The woman turns back and is greeted by the sight of a dozen men displaying their penises and smiling brightly. Her legs go wobbly and she sits heavily down on the dirt grade.
HEYWOOD: C'mon! We're showin' our tools and grinnin' like fools! Take the damn 163 INT SOLITARY CONFINZMENT NIGHT ( 1963 ) 163 Heywood sits alone in the dark. He sighs.
NED: This keeps up, you're gonna put me out of business! With this pool of slave labor you got, you can underbid any contractor in town.
NORTON: Ned, we're providing a valuable community service.
NED: That's fine for the papers, but I got a family to feed. The State don't pay my salary. Sam, we go back a long way. I need this new highway contract. I don't get it, I go under. That's a fact. Now you just have some'a this fine pie my missus baked specially for you, and you think about that. Norton opens the box. Alongside the pie is an envelope. He runs his thumb across the thick stack of cash it contains. IN THE BACKGROUND, a winch cable SNAPS and whips through the air, damn near severing a man's leg. He goes down, screaming in mud and blood, pinned by a fallen tree stump. Men rush over to help him. Norton barely takes notice.
NORTON: Ned, I wouldn't worry too much over this contract. Seems to me I've already got my boys committed elsewhere. You be sure and thank Maisie for this fine pie.
ANDY: Two deposits, Casco Bank and New England First. Night drop, like Norton pockets the envelopes. Andy crosses to the wall safe and shoves the ledger and sundry files inside. Norton locks the safe, swings his wife's framed sampler back into place. He cocks his thumb at some laundry and two suits in the corner.
NORTON: Get my stuff down t'laundry. Two suits for dry-clean and a bag of whatnot. Tell 'em if they over- starch my shirts again, they're gonna hear about it from me. How do I look?
ANDY: Very nice.
NORTON: Big charity to-do up Portland way. Governor's gonna be there. Want the rest of that? Woman can't bake worth shit.
RED: Got his fingers in a lot of pies, from what I hear.
ANDY: What you hear isn't half of it. He's got scams you haven't dreamed of. Kickbacks on his kickbacks. There's a river of dirty money flowing through this place.
RED: Money like that can be a problem. Sooner or later you gotta explain where it came from.
ANDY: That's where I come in. I channel it, funnel it, filter it.stocks, securities, tax free municipals. I send that money out into the big world. And when it comes back.
RED: It's clean as a virgin's whistle?
ANDY: Cleaner. By the time Norton retires, I will have made him a millionaire.
RED: Jesus. They ever catch on, he's gonna wind up wearing a number I thought you had more faith in me than that.
ANDY: ( smiles ) I thought you had more faith in me than that.
RED: I'm sure you're good, but all that paper leaves a trail. Anybody gets too curious FBI, IRS, whatever that trail's gonna lead to somebody.
ANDY: Sure it will. But not to me, and certainly not to the warden.
RED: Who then?
ANDY: Peter Stevens.
RED: The silent, silent partner. He's the guilty one, your Honor. The man with the bank accounts. That's where the filtering process starts. They trace it back, all they're gonna find is him.
ANDY: The silent, silent partner. He's the guilty one, your Honor. The man with the bank accounts. That's where the filtering process starts. They trace it back, all they're gonna find is him.
RED: Yeah, okay, but who the hell is he?
ANDY: A phantom. An apparition. Second cousin to Harvey the Rabbit. I conjured him out of thin air. He doesn't exist.except on paper.
RED: You can't just make a person up.
ANDY: Sure you can, if you know how the system works, and where the cracks are. It's amazing what you can accomplish by mail. Mr. Stevens has a birth certificate, social security card, driver's license. They ever track those accounts, they'll wind up chasing a figment of my imagination.
RED: Jesus. Did I say you were good? You're Rembrandt.
ANDY: It's funny. On the outside, I was an honest man. Straight as an arrow. I had to come to prison to be a crook.
RED: Does it ever bother you?
ANDY: I don't run the scams, Red, I just process the profits. That's a fine line, maybe. But I've also built that library, and used it to help a dozen guys get their high school diplomas. Why do you think the warden lets me do all that?
RED: To keep you happy and doing the laundry. Money instead of sheets.
ANDY: I work cheap. That's the trade-off. TWO SIREN BLASTS draw their attention to the main gate. It swings open, revealing a prison bus waiting outside.
TOMMY: Well. Ain't this for shit?
TOMMY: ( slapping his gloves ) C'mon there, old boys! Movin' like molasses! Makin' me look bad! The old guys just grin and shake their heads.
TOMMY: .so I'm backin' out the door, right? Had the TV like this. Big ol' thing. Couldn't see shit. Suddenly, here's this voice: Freeze kid! Hands in the air! Well I just stand there holdin' on to that TV, so the voice says: "You hear what I said, boy?" And I say, Yes sir, I sure did! But if I drop this fuckin' thing, you got me on destruction of property too! The whole table falls about laughing.
HEYWOOD: You did a stretch in Cashman too?
TOMMY: Yeah. That was an easy ride, let me tell you. Work programs, weekend furloughs. Not like here.
SNOOZE: Sounds like you done time all over New England.
TOMNY: Been in and out since I was 13. Name the place, chances are I been there.
ANDY: Perhaps it's time you considered a new profession. What I mean is, you don't seem to be a very good thief. Maybe you should try something else.
TOMMY: What the hell you know about it, Capone? What are you in for?
ANDY: ( wry glance to Red ) Everyone's innocent in here. Don't you know that? The tension breaks. Everyone laughs.
BETH: .said we can stay with them, but Joey's gettin' out of the service next month, and they barely got enough room as it is. Plus they got Poppa workin' double shifts and the baby cries half the night. I just don't know where we're gonna go. PUSH IN on Tommy's face as he listens.
TOMMY: I'm thinkin' maybe I should try for high school equivalency. Hear you helped some fellas with that.
ANDY: I don't waste time on losers, Tommy.
TOMNY: ( tight ) I ain't no goddamn loser.
ANDY: That's a good start. If we do this, we do it all the way. One hundred percent. Nothing half-assed. Tommy thinks about it, nods.
TOMMY: Thing is, see. .I don't read all that good.
ANDY: ( smiles ) Well. You've come to the right place then.
ANDY: .and the lamplight o'er him streaming throws his shadow on the floor.and my soul from out that shadow that lies floating on the floor, shall be lifted nevermore! " Andy slaps the book shut, immensely pleased with himself.
TOMMY: So this raven just sits there and won't go away?
ANDY: That's right.
TOMMY: ( beat ) Why don't that fella get hisself a 12-gauge and dust the fucker?
TOMMY: The cat shThe cat shh. The cat shat on the welcome mat? Andy shakes his head. Not exactly.
TOMNY: The cat shshhshimmied up the tree and crept ststelstealthily out on the limb.
RED: Ass in gear, son! You're putting us Tommy shoves the book in his back pocket and hurries over.
ANDY: Well. It's for shit. Wasted a whole fuckin' year of my time with this bullshit!
TOMMY: Well. It's for shit. Wasted a whole fuckin' year of my time with this bullshit!
ANDY: May not be as bad as you think.
TOMMY: It's worse! I didn't get a fuckin' thing right! Might as well be in We'll see how the score comes out.
ANDY: We'll see how the score comes out.
TOMMY: I'll tell you how the goddamn score comes out. Tommy grabs the test, wads it, slam-dunks it into the trash.
TOMMY: Two points! Right there! There's your goddamn score! Goddamn cats crawlin' up trees, 5 times 5 is 25, fuck this place, fuck it! Tommy is gone. Red and others stare. Andy gets up, pulls the test from the trash, smoothes it out on the desk.
TOMMY: I feel bad. I let him down.
RED: That's crap, son. He's proud of you. Proud as a hen. We been friends a long time. I know him as good as anybody.
TOMMY: Smart fella, ain't he?
RED: Smart as they come. Used to be a banker on the outside.
TOMMY: What's he in for anyway?
RED: The hell you say.
TOMMY: The hell you say.
RED: You wouldn't think, lookin' at him. Caught his wife in bed with some golf pro. Greased 'em both. C'mon, boy, back to work. SMASH! Red turns back. Tommy's Coke has slipped from his hand and shattered on the floor. The kid's gone white as a sheet.
TOMMY: ( bare whisper ) Oh my God.
TOMMY: 'Bout four years ago, I was in Thomaston on a 2 to 3 stretch. Stole a car. Dumbfuck thing to do. Few months left to go, I get a new cellmate in. Elmo Blatch. Big twitchy fucker. Crazy eyes. Kind of roomie you pray you don't get, know what I'm sayin'? 6 to 12 for armed burglary. Said he done hundreds of jobs. Hard to believe, high-strung as he was. Cut a loud fart, he'd go three feet in the air. Talked all the time, too, that's the other thing. Never shut up. Places he'd been, jobs he pulled, women he fucked. Even people he killed. People that gave him shit, that's how he put it. One night, like a joke, I say: "Yeah? Who'd you kill?" So he says.
BLATCH: .I got me this job one time bussin' tables at a country club. So I could case all the big rich pricks that come in. I pick out this guy, go in one night and do his place. He wakes up and gives me shit. So I killed him. Him and the tasty bitch he was with. That's the best part! She's fuckin' this prick, see, this golf pro, but she's married to some other guy! Some hotshot banker. He's the one they pinned it on! They got him down-Maine somewhere doin' time for the crime! Ain't that choice? He throws his head back and ROARS with laughter.
RED: Andy says nothing. Walks stiffly away. Doesn't look back.
NORTON: Well. I have to say, that's the most amazing story I ever heard. What amazes me most is you were taken in by it.
ANDY: It's obvious this fellow Williams is impressed with you. He hears your tale of woe and quite naturally wants to cheer you up. He's young, not terribly bright. Not surprising he didn't know what a state he'd put you in.
NORTON: It's obvious this fellow Williams is impressed with you. He hears your tale of woe and quite naturally wants to cheer you up. He's young, not terribly bright. Not surprising he didn't know what a state he'd put you in.
ANDY: I think he's telling the truth.
NORTON: Let's say for a moment Blatch does exist. You think he'd just fall to his knees and cry, "Yes, I did it! I confess! By all means, please add a life term to my sentence!"
ANDY: It wouldn't matter. With Tommy's testimony, I can get a new trial.
NORTON: That's assuming Blatch is even still there. Chances are excellent he'd be released by now. Excellent.
ANDY: They'd have his last known address. Names of relatives. Well it's a chance. isn't it? How can you be so obtuse?
NORTON: What? What did you call me?
ANDY: Obtuse! Is it deliberate? The country club will have his old time cards! W-2s with his name on them!
NORTON: ( rises ) Dufresne, if you want to indulge this fantasy, that's your business. Don't make it mine. This meeting's Look, if it's the squeeze, don't worry. I'd never say what goes on in here. I'd be just as indictable as you for laundering the money!
ANDY: Look, if it's the squeeze, don't worry. I'd never say what goes on in here. I'd be just as indictable as you for laundering the money!
NORTON: Don't you ever mention money to me again, you sorry son of a bitch! Not in this office, not anywhere! Get in here! Now!
ANDY: I was just trying to rest your mind at ease, that's all.
NORTON: ( as GUARDS enter ) Solitary! A month! Andy gets dragged away, kicking and screaming:
ANDY: What's the matter with you? It's my chance to get out, don't you see that? It's my life! Don't you understand it's my life?
FLOYD: A month in the hole. Longest damn stretch I ever heard of.
TOMMY: It's my fault.
RED: Like hell. You didn't pull the trigger, and you didn't convict him.
HEYWOOD: Red? You saying Andy's innocent? I mean for real innocent? Sweet Jesus. How long's he been in Since '47. Going on nineteen years.
RED: Since '47. Going on nineteen years.
MAIL CALLER: Thomas Williams! Tommy raises his hand. The envelope gets tossed to him. He stares at it. Red peers over his shoulder.
RED: Board of Education.
TOMMY: The son of a bitch mailed it.
RED: Looks that way. You gonna open it or stick your thumb up your butt?
TOMMY: Thumb up my butt sounds better. He gets hemmed in by the older men. Red snatches the letter.
TOMMY: C'mon, just throw it away. Will you please? Just throw it away? Red rips it open, scans the letter. Expressionless.
RED: Well, shit.
ELDERLY GUARD: Kid passed. C-plus average. Thought you'd like to know. The slot closes. The FOOTSTEPS recede. Andy smiles.
MERT: Warden wants to talk.
TOMMY: Out here?
MERT: That's what the man said. Mert swings the gate open, sends Tommy through, turns and heads back inside. Tommy proceeds out across a loading-dock access for the shops and mills. Some vehicles parked. The place is deserted. He stops, sensing a presence.
TOMMY: Norton steps into the light.
NORTON: Tommy, we've got a situation here. I think you can appreciate that.
TOMMY: Yes sir, I sure can.
NORTON: I tell you, son, this really came along and knocked my wind out. It's got me up nights, that's the truth. Norton pulls a pack of cigarettes, offers Tommy a smoke. Tommy takes one. Norton lights both cigarettes, pockets his lighter.
NORTON: The right decision. Sometimes it's hard to figure out what that is. You understand? Think hard, Tommy. If I'm gonna move on this, there can't be the least little shred of doubt. I have to know if you what you told Dufresne was the truth.
TOMMY: Yes sir. Absolutely.
NORTON: Would you be willing to swear before a judge and jury.having placed your hand on the Good Book and taken an oath before Almighty God Himself?
TOMMY: Just gimme that chance.
NORTON: That's what I thought. Norton drops his cigarette. Crushes it out with the toe of his shoe. Glances up toward the plate shop roof as
NORTON: Terrible thing. Man that young, less than a year to go, trying to escape. Broke Captain Hadley's heart to shoot him, truly it did.
ANDY: I'm done. It stops right now. Get H&R Block to declare your income. Norton lunges to his feet, eyes sparkling with rage.
NORTON: Nothing stops! NOTHING! Or you will do the hardest time there is. No more protection from the guards. I'll pull you out of that one-bunk Hilton and put you in
ANDY: My wife used to say I'm a hard man to know. Like a closed book. Complained about it all the time. She was beautiful. I loved her. But I guess I couldn't show it enough. I killed her, Red. Andy finally glances to Red, seeking a reaction. Silence.
ANDY: I didn't pull the trigger. But I drove her away. That's why she died. Because of me, the way I am.
RED: That don't make you a murderer. Bad husband, maybe. Andy smiles faintly in spite of himself. Red gives his shoulder a squeeze.
RED: Feel bad about it if you want. But you didn't pull the trigger.
ANDY: No. I didn't. Someone else did, and I wound up here. Bad luck, I guess.
RED: Bad luck? Jesus.
ANDY: It floats around. Has to land on somebody. Say a storm comes through. Some folks sit in their living rooms and enjoy the rain. The house next door gets torn out of the ground and smashed flat. It was my turn, that's all. I was in the path of the tornado. I just had no idea the storm would go on as long as it has. Think you'll ever get out of here?
RED: Sure. When I got a long white beard and about three marbles left rolling around upstairs.
ANDY: Tell you where I'd go. Zihuatanejo.
RED: Mexico. Little place right on the Pacific. You know what the Mexicans say about the Pacific? They say it has no memory. That's where I'd like to finish out my life, Red. A warm place with no memory. Open a little hotel right on the beach. Buy some worthless old boat and fix it up like new. Take my guests out charter fishing. You know, a place like that, I'd need a man who can get things. Red stares at Andy, laughs.
ANDY: Mexico. Little place right on the Pacific. You know what the Mexicans say about the Pacific? They say it has no memory. That's where I'd like to finish out my life, Red. A warm place with no memory. Open a little hotel right on the beach. Buy some worthless old boat and fix it up like new. Take my guests out charter fishing. You know, a place like that, I'd need a man who can get things. Red stares at Andy, laughs.
RED: Jesus, Andy. I couldn't hack it on the outside. Been in here too long. I'm an institutional man now. Like old Brooks Hatlen was.
ANDY: You underestimate yourself.
RED: Bullshit. In here I'm the guy who can get it for you. Out there, all you need are Yellow Pages. I wouldn't know where to begin. Pacific Ocean? Hell. Like to scare me to death, somethin' that big.
ANDY: Not me. I didn't shoot my wife and I didn't shoot her lover, and whatever mistakes I made I've paid for and then some. That hotel and that boat.I don't think it's too much to want. To look at the stars just after sunset. Touch the sand. Wade in the water. Feel free.
RED: Goddamn it, Andy, stop! Don't do that to yourself! Talking shitty pipedreams! Mexico's down there, and you're in here, and that's the way it is!
ANDY: You're right. It's down there, and I'm in here. I guess it comes down to a simple choice, really. Get busy living or get busy dying. Red snaps a look. What the hell does that mean? Andy rises and walks away. Red lunges to his feet.
RED: ( turns back ) Red, if you ever get out of here, do me a favor. There's this big hayfield up near Buxton. You know where Buxton is?
ANDY: ( turns back ) Red, if you ever get out of here, do me a favor. There's this big hayfield up near Buxton. You know where Buxton is?
RED: ( nods ) Lots of hayfields there.
ANDY: One in particular. Got a long rock wall with a big oak at the north end. Like something out of a Robert Frost poem. It's where I asked my
RED: What? What's buried there?
ANDY: You'll just have to pry up that rock and see. Andy turns and walks away.
RED: I tell you, the man was talkin' crazy. I'm worried, I truly am.
SKEET: We ought to keep an eye on him.
JIGGER: That's fine, during the day. But at night he's got that cell all to Oh Lord. Andy come down to the loading dock today. Asked me for a length of rope. Six foot long.
HEYWOOD: Oh Lord. Andy come down to the loading dock today. Asked me for a length of rope. Six foot long.
SNOOZE: Shit! You gave it to him?
HEYWOOD: Sure I did. I mean why wouldn't I?
FLOYD: Christ! Remember Brooks Hatlen?
HEYWOOD: How the hell was I s'pose to know?
JIGGER: Andy'd never do that. Never. They all look to Red.
RED: Every man's got a breaking point.
FLOYD: Where the hell is he?
HEYWOOD: Probably still up in the warden's.
TOWER GUARD: ( via bullhorn )
SKEET: Christ. What do we do?
FLOYD: Nothing we can do. Not tonight.
HEYWOOD: Let's pull him aside tomorrow, all of us. Have a word with him. Ain't that right, Red?
RED: ( unconvinced ) Yeah. Sure. That's right.
NORTON: Lickety-split. I wanna get home.
ANDY: Just about done, sir. We follow Norton to his wife's sampler. He swings it aside, works the combination dial, opens the wall safe. Andy moves up, shoves in the black ledger and files. Norton shuts the safe.
ANDY: Three deposits tonight. Andy hands him the envelopes. Norton heads for the door.
NORTON: Get my stuff down t'laundry. And shine my shoes. I want 'em lookin' like mirrors. Nice havin' you back, Andy. Place just wasn't the same without you. Norton exits. Andy turns to the laundry. He opens the shoebox. Nice pair of dress shoes inside. He sighs, glances down at the old ragged pair of work shoes on his own feet.
GUARD: Man missing on tier two! Cell 12! The head bull, HAIG, checks his list:
HAIG: Dufresne? Get your ass out here, boy! You're holding up the show! Don't make me come down there now! I'll thump your skull for you! Still no answer. Glaring, Haig stalks down the tier, clipboard in hand. His men fall in behind.
HAIG: Dufresne, dammit, you're putting me behind! You better be sick or dead in there, I shit you not! They arrive at bars. Their faces go slack. Stunned. Softly:
HAIG: Oh my Holy God.
HAIG: WHAT THE FUCK! 217 INT NORTON'S OFFICE MORNING ( 1966 ) 217 Norton is kicking back with the morning paper. He notices ha dingy his shoes are. He glances at the shoebox on the desk. kicks his shoes off, opens the box and gulls out Andy's o grimy work shoes. He stares blankly. What the fuck indeed. An ALARM STARTS BLARING throughout the prison. He looks up.
NORTON: I want every man on that cellblock questioned! Start with that friend of his!
HADLEY: 219 INT CELLBLOCK FIVE RED'S CELL DAY ( 1966 ) 219
NORTON: Red's eyes widen. Guards yank him from his cell.
NORTON: What do you mean "he just wasn't here?" Don't say that to me, Haig! Don't say that to me again!
HAIG: But sir! He wasn't! He isn't!
NORTON: I can see that, Haig! You think I'm blind? Is that what you're saying? Am I blind, Haig?
HAIG: No sir! Norton grabs the clipboard and thrusts it at Hadley.
NORTON: What about you? You blind? Tell me what this is!
HADLEY: Last night's count.
NORTON: You see Dufresne's name? I sure do! Right there, see? "Dufresne." He was in his cell at lights out! Stands to reason he'd still be here this morning! I want him found! Not tomorrow, not after breakfast! Now! Haig scurries out, gathering men. Norton spins to Red.
NORTON: Well what?
RED: Well what?
NORTON: I see you two all the time, you're thick as thieves, you are! He must'a said something!
RED: No sir, he didn't! Norton spreads his arms evangelist-style, spins slowly around.
NORTON: Lord! It's a miracle! Man up and vanished like a fart in the wind! Nothin' left but some damn rocks on the windowsill and that cupcake on the wall! Let's ask her! Maybe she knows! What say there, Fuzzy- Britches? Feel like talking? Guess not. Why should you be different? Red exchanges looks with the guards. Even they're nervous. Norton scoops a handful rocks off the sill. He hurls them at the wall one at a time, shattering them, punctuating his words:
NORTON: It's a conspiracy! ( SMASH ) That's what this is! ( SMASH ) It's one big damn conspiracy! ( SMASH ) And everyone's in on it! ( SMASH ) Including her! He sends the last rock whizzing right at Racquel. No smash. It takes a moment for this to sink in. All eyes go to her. The rock went through her. There's a small hole in the poster where her navel used to be. You could hear a pin drop. Norton reaches up, sinks his finger into the hole. He keeps pushing.and his entire hand disappears into the wall.
RORY: Warden? There's a space here between the walls 'bout three feet across! Smells pretty damn bad!
RORY: Hoo-whee! Smell's gettin' worse!
RORY: Smells pretty damn bad, Warden! In fact, it smells just like shit. His feet touch the ground or what he assumed was the ground. It's not. In fact, it's just what it smells like. He sinks in past his ankles. He slips and sits heavily in it.
RORY: Oh God, that's what it is, it's shit. oh my God it's shit. pull me out 'fore I blow my groceries, oh shit it's shit, oh my Gawwwwwwd!
RED: It's shit, it's shit, oh my God it's shit. He starts laughing all over again, fit to split.
NORTON: Lickety-split. I wanna get home.
ANDY: Just about done, sir. Norton crosses to the wall safe and works the dial, his back turned. This time, though, we stay on Andy: He pulls up his sweater, yanks out a large black book and a stack of files, lays them on the desk. He then grabs the real ledger and files, jams them down his pants and smoothes his sweater down. He picks up the bogus stack, crosses to Norton, and shoves everything in.
ANDY: My name is Peter Stevens. I've come to close out some accounts.
MANAGER: I must say I'm sorry to be losing your business. I hope you'll enjoy living abroad.
ANDY: Thank you. I'm sure I will.
TELLER: Here's your cashier's check, sir. Will there be anything else?
ANDY: Please. Would you add this to your outgoing mail? He hands her a package, stamped and addressed. Gives them a pleasant smile. Turns and strolls from the bank.
MAN: Hal! Dave! Get your butts in here!
DUTY GUARD: I'm not sure which one it is. He starts trying keys in the lock. And as the keys go sliding in one after another.
MAN #1: Your file says you've served forty years of a life sentence. You feel you've been rehabilitated? Red doesn't answer. Just stares off. Seconds tick by. The parole board exchanges glances. Somebody clears his throat.
MAN #1: Shall I repeat the question?
RED: I heard you. Rehabilitated. Let's see now. You know, come to think of it, I have no idea what that means.
MAN #2: Well, it means you're ready to rejoin society as a
RED: I know what you think it means. Me, I think it's a made-up word, a poli- tician's word. A word so young fellas like you can wear a suit and tie and have a job. What do you really want to know? Am I sorry for what I did?
RED: Not a day goes by I don't feel regret, and not because I'm in here or because you think I should. I look back on myself the way I was.stupid kid who did that terrible crime.wish I could talk sense to him. Tell him how things are. But I can't. That kid's long gone, this old man is all that's left, and I have to live with that. Rehabilitated? That's a bullshit word, so you just go on ahead and stamp that form there, sonny, and stop wasting my damn time. Truth is, I don't give a shit. The parole board just stares. Red sits drumming his fingers.
RED: Sir? Restroom break sir?
MANAGER: ( motions him over ) You don't need to ask me every time you go take a piss. Just go. 28l INT EMPLOYEE RESTROOM DAY 281 Red steps to the urinal, stares at himself in the wall mirror.
RED: Yes sir. That I am.
RED: Things got different out here.
RED: Guess the world moved on.
RED: ( steps up ) McNary, Texas?
ANDY: You look like a man who knows how to get things.
RED: I'm known to locate certain things from time to time. Red shrugs off his jacket and picks up a sander. Together, they start sanding the hull as we
FADE OUT: THE END Writers : Frank Darabont
THE END: Writers : Frank Darabont
