SHREK: Written by William Steig & Ted Elliott
SHREK: Once upon a time there was a lovely princess. But she had an enchantment upon her of a fearful sort which could only be broken by love's first kiss. She was locked away in a castle guarded by a terrible fire-breathing dragon. Many brave knights had attempted to free her from this dreadful prison, but non prevailed. She waited in the dragon's keep in the highest room of the tallest tower for her true love and true love's first kiss. ( laughs ) Like that's ever gonna happen. What a load of - ( toilet flush )
MAN1: Think it's in there?
MAN2: All right. Let's get it!
MAN1: Whoa. Hold on. Do you know what that thing can do to you?
MAN3: Yeah, it'll grind your bones for it's
SHREK: Yes, well, actually, that would be a giant. Now, ogres, oh they're much worse. They'll make a suit from your freshly peeled skin.
MEN: They'll shave your liver. Squeeze the jelly from your eyes! Actually, it's quite good on toast.
SHREK: They'll shave your liver. Squeeze the jelly from your eyes! Actually, it's quite good on toast.
MAN1: Back! Back, beast! Back! I warn ya! ( waves the torch at Shrek. )
SHREK: This is the part where you run away. ( The men scramble to get away. He laughs. ) And stay out! ( looks down and picks up a piece of paper. Reads. ) "Wanted. Fairy tale creatures."( He sighs and throws the paper over his shoulder. )
GUARD: All right. This one's full. Take it away! Move it along. Come on! Get up!
HEAD GUARD: ( taking the witch's broom ) Give me that! Your flying days are over. ( breaks the broom in half )
GUARD: ( taking the witch's broom ) Give me that! Your flying days are over. ( breaks the broom in half )
HEAD GUARD: That's 20 pieces of silver for the witch. Get up! Come on!
GUARD: Get up! Come on!
HEAD GUARD: Twenty pieces.
LITTLE BEAR: ( crying ) This cage is too small.
DONKEY: Please, don't turn me in. I'll never be stubborn again. I can change. Please! Give me another chance!
OLD WOMAN: Oh, shut up. ( jerks his rope )
DONKEY: HEAD GUARD
HEAD GUARD: Next! What have you got?
GIPETTO: This little wooden puppet.
PINOCCHIO: I'm not a puppet. I'm a real boy. ( his nose grows )
HEAD GUARD: Five shillings for the possessed toy. Take it away.
PINOCCHIO: Father, please! Don't let them do this! Help me!
HEAD GUARD: Next! What have you got?
OLD WOMAN: Well, I've got a talking donkey.
HEAD GUARD: Right. Well, that's good for ten shillings, if you can prove it.
OLD WOMAN: Oh, go ahead, little fella.
HEAD GUARD: OLD WOMAN
OLD WOMAN: Oh, oh, he's just.he's just a little nervous. He's really quite a chatterbox. Talk, you boneheaded dolt.
HEAD GUARD: That's it. I've heard enough. Guards!
OLD WOMAN: No, no, he talks! He does. ( pretends to be Donkey ) I can talk. I love to talk. I'm the talkingest damn thing you ever saw.
HEAD GUARD: Get her out of my sight.
OLD WOMAN: No, no! I swear! Oh! He can talk!
DONKEY: Hey! I can fly!
PETER PAN: He can fly!
HEAD GUARD: He can talk!
DONKEY: Ha, ha! That's right, fool! Now I'm a flying, talking donkey. You might have seen a housefly, maybe even a superfly but I bet you ain't never seen a donkey fly. Ha, ha! ( the pixie dust begins to wear off ) Uh-oh. ( he begins to sink to the ground. )
HEAD GUARD: Seize him! ( Donkey takes of running. ) After him!
GUARDS: He's getting away! Get him! This way!
HEAD GUARD: You there. Ogre!
SHREK: HEAD GUARD
HEAD GUARD: By the order of Lord Farquaad I am authorized to place you both under arrest and transport you to a designated resettlement facility.
SHREK: Oh, really? You and what army?
DONKEY: Can I say something to you? Listen, you was really, really, really somethin' back here. Incredible!
SHREK: Are you talkin' to.( he turns around and Donkey is gone ) me? ( he turns back around and Donkey is right in front of him. ) Whoa!
DONKEY: Yes. I was talkin' to you. Can I tell you that you that you was great back here? Those guards! They thought they was all of that. Then you showed up, and bam! They was trippin' over themselves like babes in the woods. That really made me feel good to see that.
SHREK: Oh, that's great. Really.
DONKEY: Man, it's good to be free.
SHREK: Now, why don't you go celebrate your freedom with your own friends? Hmm?
DONKEY: But, uh, I don't have any friends. And I'm not goin' out there by myself. Hey, wait a minute! I got a great idea! I'll stick with you. You're mean, green, fightin' machine. Together we'll scare the spit out of anybody that crosses Oh, wow! That was really scary. If you don't mind me sayin', if that don't work, your breath certainly will get the job done, 'cause you definitely need some Tic Tacs or something, 'cause you breath stinks! You almost burned the hair outta my nose, just like the time.( Shrek covers his mouth but Donkey continues to talk, so Shrek removes his hand. ) .then I ate some rotten berries. I had strong gases leaking out of my butt that day.
DONKEY: Oh, wow! That was really scary. If you don't mind me sayin', if that don't work, your breath certainly will get the job done, 'cause you definitely need some Tic Tacs or something, 'cause you breath stinks! You almost burned the hair outta my nose, just like the time.( Shrek covers his mouth but Donkey continues to talk, so Shrek removes his hand. ) .then I ate some rotten berries. I had strong gases leaking out of my butt that day.
SHREK: Why are you following me?
DONKEY: I'll tell you why. ( singing ) 'Cause I'm all alone, There's no one here beside me, My problems have all gone, There's no one to deride me, But you gotta have Stop singing! It's no wonder you don't have any friends.
SHREK: Stop singing! It's no wonder you don't have any friends.
DONKEY: Wow. Only a true friend would be that cruelly honest.
SHREK: Listen, little donkey. Take a look at me. What am I?
DONKEY: ( looks all the way up at Shrek ) Uh .really No! I'm an ogre! You know. "Grab your torch and pitchforks." Doesn't that bother you?
SHREK: No! I'm an ogre! You know. "Grab your torch and pitchforks." Doesn't that bother you?
DONKEY: Really, really.
SHREK: Really, really.
DONKEY: Really, really.
SHREK: Man, I like you. What's you name?
DONKEY: Man, I like you. What's you name?
SHREK: Uh, Shrek.
DONKEY: Shrek? Well, you know what I like about you, Shrek? You got that kind of I-don't-care-what-nobody-thinks-of-me thing. I like that. I respect that, Shrek. You all right. ( They come over a hill and you can see Shrek's cottage. ) Whoa! Look at that. Who'd want to live in place like that?
SHREK: That would be my home.
DONKEY: Oh! And it is lovely! Just beautiful. You know you are quite a decorator. It's amazing what you've done with such a modest budget. I like that boulder. That is a nice boulder. I guess you don't entertain much, do you?
SHREK: I like my privacy.
DONKEY: You know, I do too. That's another thing we have in common. Like I hate it when you got somebody in your face. You've trying to give them a hint, and they won't leave. There's that awkward silence. ( awkward silence ) Can I stay with you?
SHREK: Uh, what?
DONKEY: Can I stay with you, please?
SHREK: ( sarcastically ) Of course!
DONKEY: Please! I don't wanna go back there! You don't know what it's like to be considered a freak. ( pause while he looks at Shrek ) Well, maybe you do. But that's why we gotta stick together. You gotta let me stay! Please! Please!
SHREK: Please! I don't wanna go back there! You don't know what it's like to be considered a freak. ( pause while he looks at Shrek ) Well, maybe you do. But that's why we gotta stick together. You gotta let me stay! Please! Please!
DONKEY: Please! I don't wanna go back there! You don't know what it's like to be considered a freak. ( pause while he looks at Shrek ) Well, maybe you do. But that's why we gotta stick together. You gotta let me stay! Please! Please!
SHREK: Okay! Okay! But one night only.
DONKEY: Ah! Thank you! ( he runs inside the cottage )
SHREK: What are you.? ( Donkey hops up onto a chair. ) No! No!
DONKEY: This is gonna be fun! We can stay up late, swappin' manly stories, and in the mornin' I'm makin' waffles.
SHREK: Where do, uh, I sleep?
DONKEY: Where do, uh, I sleep?
SHREK: ( irritated ) Outside!
DONKEY: Oh, well, I guess that's cool. I mean, I don't know you, and you don't know me, so I guess outside is best, you know. Here I go. Good night. ( Shrek slams the door. ) ( sigh ) I mean, I do like the outdoors. I'm a donkey. I was born outside. I'll just be sitting by myself outside, I guess, you know. By myself, outside. I'm all alone.there's no one here beside me.
SHREK: ( to Donkey ) I thought I told you to stay outside.
DONKEY: ( from the window ) I am outside.
BLIND MOUSE1: Well, gents, it's a far cry from the farm, but what choice do we have?
BLIND MOUSE2: It's not home, but it'll do just fine.
GORDO: ( bouncing on a slug ) What a lovely bed.
SHREK: Got ya. ( Grabs a mouse, but it escapes and lands on his shoulder. )
GORDO: I found some cheese. ( bites Shrek's ear )
SHREK: Blah! Awful stuff.
GORDO: Blah! Awful stuff.
BLIND MOUSE1: Is that you, Gordo?
GORDO: How did you know?
SHREK: Enough! ( he grabs the 3 mice ) What are you doing in my house? ( He gets bumped from behind and he drops the mice. ) Hey! ( he turns and sees the Seven Dwarves with Snow White on the table. ) Oh, no, no, no. Dead broad off the table.
DWARF: Where are we supposed to put her? The bed's taken.
SHREK: Shrek marches over to the bedroom and throws back the curtain. The Big Bad Wolf is sitting in the bed. The wolf just looks at TIME LAPSE Shrek now has the Big Bad Wolf by the collar and is dragging him to the front door.
TIME LAPSE: Shrek now has the Big Bad Wolf by the collar and is dragging him to the front door.
SHREK: I live in a swamp. I put up signs. I'm a terrifying ogre! What do I have to do get a little privacy? ( He opens the front door to throw the Wolf out and he sees that all the collected Fairy Tale Creatures are on his land. ) Oh, no. No! No!
SHREK: What are you doing in my swamp? ( this echoes and everyone falls silent. )
SHREK: All right, get out of here. All of you, move it! Come on! Let's go! Hapaya! Hapaya! Hey! Quickly. Come on! ( more dwarves run inside the house ) No, no! No, no. Not there. Not there. ( they shut the door on him ) Oh! ( turns to look at Donkey )
DONKEY: Hey, don't look at me. I didn't invite Oh, gosh, no one invited us.
PINOCCHIO: Oh, gosh, no one invited us.
SHREK: We were forced to come here.
PINOCCHIO: We were forced to come here.
SHREK: ( flabbergasted ) By who?
LITTLE PIG: Lord Farquaad. He huffed and he puffed and he.signed an eviction notice.
SHREK: ( heavy sigh ) All right. Who knows where this Farquaad guy is?
DONKEY: Oh, I do. I know where he is.
SHREK: Does anyone else know where to find him? Anyone at all?
DONKEY: Me! Me!
SHREK: Oh! Oh, pick me! Oh, I know! I know! Me, me!
DONKEY: Oh! Oh, pick me! Oh, I know! I know! Me, me!
SHREK: ( sigh ) Okay, fine. Attention, all fairy tale things. Do not get comfortable. Your welcome is officially worn out. In fact, I'm gonna see this guy Farquaad right now and get you all off my land and back where you came from! ( Pause. Then the crowd goes wild. ) Oh! ( to Donkey ) You! You're comin' with me.
DONKEY: All right, that's what I like to hear, man. Shrek and Donkey, two stalwart friends, off on a whirlwind big-city adventure. I love it!
DONKEY: ( singing ) On the road again. Sing it with me, Shrek. I can't wait to get on the road again.
SHREK: What did I say about singing?
DONKEY: Can I whistle?
SHREK: Can I hum it?
DONKEY: Can I hum it?
SHREK: All right, hum it.
FARQUAAD: That's enough. He's ready to talk.
FARQUAAD: ( he picks up the Gingerbread Man's legs and plays with them ) Run, run, run, as fast as you can. You can't catch me. I'm the gingerbread man.
GINGERBREAD MAN: You are a monster.
FARQUAAD: I'm not the monster here. You are. You and the rest of that fairy tale trash, poisoning my perfect world. Now, tell me! Where are the others?
GINGERBREAD MAN: Eat me! ( He spits milk into Farquaad's eye. )
FARQUAAD: I've tried to be fair to you creatures. Now my patience has reached its end! Tell me or I'll.( he makes as if to pull off the Gingerbread Man's buttons )
GINGERBREAD MAN: No, no, not the buttons. Not my gumdrop All right then. Who's hiding them?
FARQUAAD: All right then. Who's hiding them?
GINGERBREAD MAN: Okay, I'll tell you. Do you know the muffin man?
FARQUAAD: The muffin man?
GINGERBREAD MAN: The muffin man.
FARQUAAD: Yes, I know the muffin man, who lives on Drury Lane?
GINGERBREAD MAN: Well, she's married to the muffin man.
FARQUAAD: The muffin man?
GINGERBREAD MAN: The muffin man!
FARQUAAD: She's married to the muffin man.
HEAD GUARD: My lord! We found it.
FARQUAAD: Then what are you waiting for? Bring it in.
GINGERBREAD MAN: ( in awe ) Ohhhh.
FARQUAAD: Magic mirror.
GINGERBREAD MAN: Don't tell him anything! ( Farquaad picks him up and dumps him into a trash can with a lid. ) No!
FARQUAAD: Evening. Mirror, mirror on the wall. Is this not the most perfect kingdom of them all?
MIRROR: Well, technically you're not a king.
FARQUAAD: Uh, Thelonius. ( Thelonius holds up a hand mirror and smashes it with his fist. ) You were saying?
MIRROR: What I mean is you're not a king yet. But you can become one. All you have to do is marry a princess.
FARQUAAD: Go on.
MIRROR: ( chuckles nervously ) So, just sit back and relax, my lord, because it's time for you to meet today's eligible bachelorettes. And here they are! Bachelorette number one is a mentally abused shut-in from a kingdom far, far away. She likes sushi and hot tubbing anytime. Her hobbies include cooking and cleaning for her two evil sisters. Please welcome Cinderella. ( shows picture of Cinderella ) Bachelorette number two is a cape-wearing girl from the land of fancy. Although she lives with seven other men, she's not easy. Just kiss her dead, frozen lips and find out what a live wire she is. Come on. Give it up for Snow White! ( shows picture of Snow White ) And last, but certainly not last, bachelorette number three is a fiery redhead from a dragon-guarded castle surrounded by hot boiling lava! But don't let that cool you off. She's a loaded pistol who likes pina colads and getting caught in the rain. Yours for the rescuing, Princess Fiona! ( Shows picture of Princess Fiona ) So will it be bachelorette number one, bachelorette number two or bachelorette number three?
GUARDS: Two! Two! Three! Three! Two! Two! Three!
FARQUAAD: Three? One? Three?
THELONIUS: Three! ( holds up 2 fingers ) Pick number three, my lord!
FARQUAAD: Okay, okay, uh, number three!
MIRROR: Lord Farquaad, you've chosen Princess Princess Fiona. She's perfect. All I have to do is just find someone who can go.
FARQUAAD: Princess Fiona. She's perfect. All I have to do is just find someone who can go.
MIRROR: But I probably should mention the little thing that happens at night.
FARQUAAD: I'll do it.
MIRROR: Yes, but after sunset.
FARQUAAD: Silence! I will make this Princess Fiona my queen, and DuLoc will finally have the perfect king! Captain, assemble your finest men. We're going to have a tournament. ( smiles evilly )
DONKEY: But that's it. That's it right there. That's DuLoc. I told ya I'd find it.
SHREK: So, that must be Lord Farquaad's castle.
DONKEY: Uh-huh. That's the place.
SHREK: Do you think maybe he's compensating for something? ( He laughs, but then groans as Donkey doesn't get the joke. He continues walking through the parking lot. )
DONKEY: Hey, wait. Wait up, Shrek.
MAN: Hurry, darling. We're late. Hurry.
SHREK: Hey, you! ( The attendant, who is wearing a giant head that looks like Lord Farquaad, screams and begins running through the rows of rope to get to the front gate to get away from Shrek. ) Wait a second. Look, I'm not gonna eat you. I just - - I just - - ( He sighs and then begins walking straight through the rows. The attendant runs into a wall and falls down. Shrek and Donkey look at him then continue on into DuLoc. )
DULOC: They look around but all is quiet.
SHREK: It's quiet. Too quiet. Where is everybody?
DONKEY: Hey, look at this!
WOODEN PEOPLE: Welcome to DuLoc such a perfect town
DONKEY: Wow! Let's do that again! ( makes ready to run over and pull the lever again )
SHREK: ( grabs Donkey's tail and holds him still ) No. No. No, no, no! No.
FARQUAAD: Brave knights. You are the best and brightest in all the land. Today one of you shall prove himself.
SHREK: All right. You're going the right way for a smacked bottom.
DONKEY: Sorry about that.
FARQUAAD: That champion shall have the honor - - no, no - - the privilege to go forth and rescue the lovely Princess Fiona from the fiery keep of the dragon. If for any reason the winner is unsuccessful, the first runner-up will take his place and so on and so forth. Some of you may die, but it's a sacrifice I am willing to make. ( cheers ) Let the tournament begin! ( He notices Shrek ) Oh! What is that? It's hideous!
SHREK: ( turns to look at Donkey and then back at Farquaad ) Ah, that's not very nice. It's just a donkey.
FARQUAAD: Indeed. Knights, new plan! The one who kills the ogre will be named champion! Have it him!
MEN: Get him!
SHREK: Oh, hey! Now come on! Hang on now. ( bumps into a table where there are mugs of beer )
CROWD: Go ahead! Get him!
SHREK: ( holds up a mug of beer ) Can't we just settle this over a pint?
CROWD: Kill the beast!
SHREK: No? All right then. ( drinks the beer ) Come on!
DONKEY: Hey, Shrek, tag me! Tag me!
SHREK: A man tries to sneak up behind Shrek, but Shrek turns in time and sees him.
WOMAN: The chair! Give him the chair!
SHREK: Oh, yeah! Ah! Ah! Thank you! Thank you very much! I'm here till Thursday. Try the veal! Ha, ha! ( laughs )
HEAD GUARD: Shall I give the order, sir?
FARQUAAD: No, I have a better idea. People of DuLoc, I give you our champion!
SHREK: Congratulations, ogre. You're won the honor of embarking on a great and noble Quest? I'm already in a quest, a quest to get my swamp back.
FARQUAAD: Congratulations, ogre. You're won the honor of embarking on a great and noble Quest? I'm already in a quest, a quest to get my swamp back.
SHREK: Quest? I'm already in a quest, a quest to get my swamp back.
FARQUAAD: Your swamp?
SHREK: Yeah, my swamp! Where you dumped those fairy tale creatures!
FARQUAAD: Indeed. All right, ogre. I'll make you a deal. Go on this quest for me, and I'll give you your swamp back.
SHREK: Exactly the way it was?
FARQUAAD: Down to the last slime-covered toadstool.
SHREK: And the squatters?
FARQUAAD: As good as gone.
SHREK: What kind of quest?
DONKEY: Let me get this straight. You're gonna go fight a dragon and rescue a princess just so Farquaad will give you back a swamp which you only don't have because he filled it full of freaks in the first place. Is that about right?
SHREK: You know, maybe there's a good reason donkeys shouldn't talk.
DONKEY: I don't get it. Why don't you just pull some of that ogre stuff on him? Throttle him, lay siege to his fortress, grinds his bones to make your bread, the whole ogre trip.
SHREK: Oh, I know what. Maybe I could have decapitated an entire village and put their heads on a pike, gotten a knife, cut open their spleen and drink their fluids. Does that sound good to you?
DONKEY: Uh, no, not really, no.
SHREK: For your information, there's a lot more to ogres than people think.
DONKEY: Example? Okay, um, ogres are like onions. ( he holds out his onion )
SHREK: Example? Okay, um, ogres are like onions. ( he holds out his onion )
DONKEY: ( sniffs the onion ) They stink?
SHREK: Yes - - No!
DONKEY: They make you cry?
SHREK: You leave them in the sun, they get all brown, start sproutin' little white No! Layers! Onions have layers. Ogres have layers! Onions have layers. You get it? We both have layers. ( he heaves a sigh and then walks off )
DONKEY: You leave them in the sun, they get all brown, start sproutin' little white No! Layers! Onions have layers. Ogres have layers! Onions have layers. You get it? We both have layers. ( he heaves a sigh and then walks off )
SHREK: No! Layers! Onions have layers. Ogres have layers! Onions have layers. You get it? We both have layers. ( he heaves a sigh and then walks off )
DONKEY: ( trailing after Shrek ) Oh, you both have layers. Oh. {Sniffs} You know, not everybody likes onions. Cake! Everybody loves cakes! Cakes have layers.
SHREK: I don't care. what everyone likes. Ogres are not like cakes.
DONKEY: You know what else everybody likes? Parfaits. Have you ever met a person, you say, "Let's get some parfait," they say, "Hell no, I don't like no parfait"? Parfaits are delicious.
SHREK: No! You dense, irritating, miniature beast of burden! Ogres are like onions! And of story. Bye-bye. See ya later.
DONKEY: Parfaits may be the most delicious thing on the whole damn planet.
SHREK: You know, I think I preferred your humming.
DONKEY: Do you have a tissue or something? I'm making a mess. Just the word parfait make me start slobbering.
DRAGON'S KEEP: Shrek and Donkey are walking up to the keep that's supposed to house Princess Fiona. It appears to look like a giant volcano.
DONKEY: ( sniffs ) Ohh! Shrek! Did you do that? You gotta warn somebody before you just crack one off. My mouth was open and Believe me, Donkey, if it was me, you'd be dead. ( sniffs ) It's brimstone. We must be getting close.
SHREK: Believe me, Donkey, if it was me, you'd be dead. ( sniffs ) It's brimstone. We must be getting close.
DONKEY: Yeah, right, brimstone. Don't be talking about it's the brimstone. I know what I smell. It wasn't no brimstone. It didn't come off no stone neither.
SHREK: Sure, it's big enough, but look at the location. ( laughs.then the laugh turns into a groan )
DONKEY: Uh, Shrek? Uh, remember when you said ogres have layers?
SHREK: Oh, aye.
DONKEY: Well, I have a bit of a confession to make. Donkeys don't have layers. We wear our fear right out there on our Wait a second. Donkeys don't have sleeves.
SHREK: Wait a second. Donkeys don't have sleeves.
DONKEY: You know what I mean.
SHREK: You can't tell me you're afraid of heights.
DONKEY: No, I'm just a little uncomfortable about being on a rickety bridge over a boiling like of lava!
SHREK: Come on, Donkey. I'm right here beside ya, okay? For emotional support., we'll just tackle this thing together one little baby step at a time.
DONKEY: Really, really.
SHREK: Really, really.
DONKEY: Okay, that makes me feel so much better.
SHREK: Just keep moving. And don't look down.
DONKEY: Okay, don't look down. Don't look down. Don't look down. Keep on moving. Don't look down. ( he steps through a rotting board and ends up looking straight down into the lava ) Shrek! I'm lookin' down! Oh, God, I can't do this! Just let me off, please!
SHREK: But you're already halfway.
DONKEY: But I know that half is safe!
SHREK: Okay, fine. I don't have time for this. You go back.
DONKEY: Shrek, no! Wait!
SHREK: Just, Donkey - - Let's have a dance then, shall me? ( bounces and sways the bridge )
DONKEY: Don't do that!
SHREK: Oh, I'm sorry. Do what? Oh, this? ( bounces the bridge again )
DONKEY: Yes, that!
SHREK: Yes? Yes, do it. Okay. ( continues to bounce and sway as he backs Donkey across the bridge )
DONKEY: No, Shrek! No! Stop it!
SHREK: You said do it! I'm doin' it.
DONKEY: I'm gonna die. I'm gonna die. Shrek, I'm gonna die. ( steps onto solid ground ) That'll do, Donkey. That'll do. ( walks towards the castle )
SHREK: That'll do, Donkey. That'll do. ( walks towards the castle )
DONKEY: Cool. So where is this fire-breathing pain-in-the-neck anyway?
SHREK: Inside, waiting for us to rescue her. ( chuckles )
DONKEY: I was talkin' about the dragon, Shrek.
DONKEY: You afraid?
SHREK: Oh, good. Me neither. ( sees a skeleton and gasps ) 'Cause there's nothin' wrong with bein' afraid. Fear's a sensible response to an unfamiliar situation. Unfamiliar dangerous situation, I might add. With a dragon that breathes fire and eats knights and breathes fire, it sure doesn't mean you're a coward if you're a little scared. I sure as heck ain't no coward. I know that.
DONKEY: Oh, good. Me neither. ( sees a skeleton and gasps ) 'Cause there's nothin' wrong with bein' afraid. Fear's a sensible response to an unfamiliar situation. Unfamiliar dangerous situation, I might add. With a dragon that breathes fire and eats knights and breathes fire, it sure doesn't mean you're a coward if you're a little scared. I sure as heck ain't no coward. I know that.
SHREK: Oh, good. Me neither. ( sees a skeleton and gasps ) 'Cause there's nothin' wrong with bein' afraid. Fear's a sensible response to an unfamiliar situation. Unfamiliar dangerous situation, I might add. With a dragon that breathes fire and eats knights and breathes fire, it sure doesn't mean you're a coward if you're a little scared. I sure as heck ain't no coward. I know that.
DONKEY: Oh, good. Me neither. ( sees a skeleton and gasps ) 'Cause there's nothin' wrong with bein' afraid. Fear's a sensible response to an unfamiliar situation. Unfamiliar dangerous situation, I might add. With a dragon that breathes fire and eats knights and breathes fire, it sure doesn't mean you're a coward if you're a little scared. I sure as heck ain't no coward. I know that.
SHREK: Donkey, two things, okay? Shut . up. Now go over there and see if you can find any stairs.
DONKEY: Stairs? I thought we was lookin' for the princess.
SHREK: ( putting on a helmet ) The princess will be up the stairs in the highest room in the tallest tower.
DONKEY: What makes you think she'll be there?
SHREK: I read it in a book once. ( walks off )
DONKEY: Cool. You handle the dragon. I'll handle the stairs. I'll find those stairs. I'll whip their butt too. Those stairs won't know which way they're goin'. ( walks off )
EMPTY ROOM: Donkey is still talking to himself as he looks around the room.
DONKEY: I'm gonna take drastic steps. Kick it to the curb. Don't mess with me. I'm the stair master. I've mastered the stairs. I wish I had a step right here. I'd step all over it.
ELSEWHERE: Shrek spots a light in the tallest tower window.
SHREK: Well, at least we know where the princess is, but where's the.
DONKEY: ( os ) Dragon!
SHREK: Donkey, look out! ( he manages to get a hold of the dragons tail and holds on ) Got ya!
DONKEY: Oh! Aah! Aah!
DONKEY: No. Oh, no, No! ( the dragon roars ) Oh, what large teeth you have. ( the dragon growls ) I mean white, sparkling teeth. I know you probably hear this all time from your food, but you must bleach, 'cause that is one dazzling smile you got there. Do I detect a hint of minty freshness? And you know what else? You're - - You're a girl dragon! Oh, sure! I mean, of course you're a girl dragon. You're just reeking of feminine beauty. ( the dragon begins fluttering her eyes at him ) What's the matter with you? You got something in your eye? Ohh. Oh. Oh. Man, I'd really love to stay, but you know, I'm, uh.( the dragon blows a smoke ring in the shape of a heart right at him, and he coughs ) I'm an asthmatic, and I don't know if it'd work out if you're gonna blow smoke rings. Shrek! ( the dragon picks him up with her teeth and carries him off ) No! Shrek! Shrek! Shrek!
FIONA'S ROOM: Shrek groans as he gets up off the floor. His back is to Fiona so she straightens her dress and lays back down on the bed. She then quickly reaches over and gets the bouquet of flowers off the side table. She then lays back down and appears to be asleep. Shrek turns and goes over to her. He looks down at Fiona for a moment and she puckers her lips. Shrek takes her by the shoulders and shakes her away.
FIONA: Oh! Oh!
SHREK: Wake up!
FIONA: Are you Princess Fiona?
SHREK: Are you Princess Fiona?
FIONA: I am, awaiting a knight so bold as to rescue me.
SHREK: Oh, that's nice. Now let's go!
FIONA: But wait, Sir Knight. This be-ith our first meeting. Should it not be a wonderful, romantic moment?
SHREK: Yeah, sorry, lady. There's no time.
FIONA: Hey, wait. What are you doing? You should sweep me off my feet out yonder window and down a rope onto your valiant steed.
SHREK: You've had a lot of time to plan this, haven't you?
FIONA: ( smiles ) Mm-hmm.
FIONA: But we have to savor this moment! You could recite an epic poem for me. A ballad? A sonnet! A limerick? Or something!
SHREK: I don't think so.
FIONA: Can I at least know the name of my champion?
SHREK: Uh, Shrek.
FIONA: Sir Shrek. ( clears throat and holds out a handkerchief ) I pray that you take this favor as a token of my gratitude.
SHREK: Suddenly they hear the dragon roar.
FIONA: ( surprised )You didn't slay the dragon?
SHREK: It's on my to-do list. Now come on! ( takes off running and drags Fiona behind him. )
FIONA: But this isn't right! You were meant to charge in, sword drawn, banner flying. That's what all the other knights did.
SHREK: Yeah, right before they burst into flame.
FIONA: That's not the point. ( Shrek suddenly stops and she runs into him. ) Oh! ( Shrek ignores her and heads for a wooden door off to the side. ) Wait. Where are you going? The exit's over there.
SHREK: Well, I have to save my ass.
FIONA: What kind of knight are you?
SHREK: One of a kind. ( opens the door into the throne room )
DONKEY: ( os ) Slow down. Slow down, baby, please. I believe it's healthy to get to know someone over a long period of time. Just call me old-fashioned. ( laughs worriedly ) ( we see him up close and from a distance as Shrek sneaks into the room ) I don't want to rush into a physical relationship. I'm not emotionally ready for a commitment of, uh, this - - Magnitude really is the word I'm looking for. Magnitude- - Hey, that is unwanted physical contact. Hey, what are you doing? Okay, okay. Let's just back up a little and take this one step at a time. We really should get to know each other first as friends or pen pals. I'm on the road a lot, but I just love receiving cards - - I'd really love to stay, but - - Don't do that! That's my tail! That's my personal tail. You're gonna tear it off. I don't give permission - - What are you gonna do with that? Hey, now. No way. No! No! No, no! No. No, no, no. No! Oh!
DONKEY: Hi, Princess!
FIONA: It talks!
SHREK: Yeah, it's getting him to shut up that's the trick.
SHREK: Shrek gets them close to the exit and sets down Donkey and Fiona.
SHREK: Okay, you two, heard for the exit! I'll take care of the dragon.
SHREK: ( echoing ) Run!
FIONA: ( sliding down the 'volcano' hill ) You did it! You rescued me! You're amazing. ( behind her Donkey falls down the hill ) You're - - You're wonderful. You're. ( turns and sees Shrek fall down the hill and bump into Donkey ) a little unorthodox I'll admit. But thy deed is great, and thy heart is pure. I am eternally in your debt. ( Donkey clears his throat. ) And where would a brave knight be without his noble steed?
DONKEY: I hope you heard that. She called me a noble steed. She think I'm a steed.
FIONA: The battle is won. You may remove your helmet, good Sir Knight.
SHREK: Uh, no.
FIONA: Why not?
SHREK: I have helmet hair.
FIONA: Please. I would'st look upon the face of my rescuer.
SHREK: No, no, you wouldn't - - 'st.
FIONA: But how will you kiss me?
SHREK: What? ( to Donkey ) That wasn't in the job description.
DONKEY: Maybe it's a perk.
FIONA: No, it's destiny. Oh, you must know how it goes. A princess locked in a tower and beset by a dragon is rescued by a brave knight, and then they share true love's first kiss.
DONKEY: Hmm? With Shrek? You think- - Wait. Wait. You think that Shrek is you true Well, yes.
FIONA: Well, yes.
DONKEY: You think Shrek is your true love!
FIONA: What is so funny?
SHREK: Let's just say I'm not your type, okay?Fiona: Of course, you are. You're my rescuer. Now - - Now remove your helmet.
SHREK: Look. I really don't think this is a good idea.
FIONA: Just take off the helmet.
SHREK: I'm not going to.
FIONA: Take it off.
SHREK: Okay! Easy. As you command. Your Highness. ( takes off his helmet )
FIONA: Okay! Easy. As you command. Your Highness. ( takes off his helmet )
SHREK: Okay! Easy. As you command. Your Highness. ( takes off his helmet )
FIONA: You- - You're a- - an ogre.
SHREK: Oh, you were expecting Prince Charming.
FIONA: Well, yes, actually. Oh, no. This is all wrong. You're not supposed to be an ogre.
SHREK: Princess, I was sent to rescue you by Lord Farquaad, okay? He is the one who wants to marry you.
FIONA: Then why didn't he come rescue me?
SHREK: Good question. You should ask him that when we get there.
FIONA: But I have to be rescued by my true love, not by some ogre and his- - his Well, so much for noble steed.
DONKEY: Well, so much for noble steed.
SHREK: You're not making my job any easier.
FIONA: I'm sorry, but your job is not my problem. You can tell Lord Farquaad that if he wants to rescue me properly, I'll be waiting for him right here.
SHREK: Hey! I'm no one's messenger boy, all right? ( ominous ) I'm a delivery boy. ( he swiftly picks her up and swings her over his shoulder like she was a sack of potatoes )
FIONA: You wouldn't dare. Put me down!
SHREK: Ya comin', Donkey?
DONKEY: I'm right behind ya.
FIONA: Put me down, or you will suffer the consequences! This is not dignified! Put me down!
WOODS: A little time has passed and Fiona has calmed down. She just hangs there limply while Shrek carries her.
DONKEY: Okay, so here's another question. Say there's a woman that digs you, right, but you don't really like her that way. How do you let her down real easy so her feelings aren't hurt, but you don't get burned to a crisp and eaten?
FIONA: You just tell her she's not your true love. Everyone knows what happens when you find your.( Shrek drops her on the ground ) Hey! The sooner we get to DuLoc the better.
DONKEY: You're gonna love it there, Princess. It's beautiful!
FIONA: And what of my groom-to-be? Lord Farquaad? What's he like?
SHREK: Let me put it this way, Princess. Men of Farquaad's stature are in short supply. ( he and Donkey laugh )
DONKEY: I don't know. There are those who think little of him. ( they laugh again ) Fiona: Stop it. Stop it, both of you. You're just jealous you can never measure up to a great ruler like Lord Farquaad.
SHREK: Yeah, well, maybe you're right, Princess. But I'll let you do the "measuring" when you see him tomorrow.
FIONA: ( looks at the setting sun ) Tomorrow? It'll take that long? Shouldn't we stop to make camp?
SHREK: No, that'll take longer. We can keep But there's robbers in the woods.
FIONA: But there's robbers in the woods.
DONKEY: Whoa! Time out, Shrek! Camp is starting to sound good.
SHREK: Hey, come on. I'm scarier than anything we're going to see in this forest.
FIONA: I need to find somewhere to camp now!
MOUNTAIN CLIFF: Shrek has found a cave that appears to be in good order. He shoves a stone boulder out of the way to reveal the cave.
SHREK: Hey! Over here.
DONKEY: Shrek, we can do better than that. I don't think this is fit for a princess.
FIONA: No, no, it's perfect. It just needs a few homey touches.
SHREK: Homey touches? Like what? ( he hears a tearing noise and looks over at Fiona who has torn the bark off of a tree. )
FIONA: A door? Well, gentlemen, I bid thee good night. ( goes into the cave and puts the bark door up behind her )
DONKEY: You want me to read you a bedtime story? I will.
FIONA: ( os ) I said good night!
DONKEY: Shrek, What are you doing?
SHREK: ( laughs ) I just- - You know - - Oh, come on. I was just kidding.
SHREK: And, uh, that one, that's Throwback, the only ogre to ever spit over three wheat fields.
DONKEY: Right. Yeah. Hey, can you tell my future from these stars?
SHREK: The stars don't tell the future, Donkey. They tell stories. Look, there's Bloodnut, the Flatulent. You can guess what he's famous for.
DONKEY: I know you're making this up.
SHREK: No, look. There he is, and there's the group of hunters running away from his That ain't nothin' but a bunch of little You know, Donkey, sometimes things are more than they appear. Hmm? Forget it.
DONKEY: That ain't nothin' but a bunch of little You know, Donkey, sometimes things are more than they appear. Hmm? Forget it.
SHREK: You know, Donkey, sometimes things are more than they appear. Hmm? Forget it.
DONKEY: ( heaves a big sigh ) Hey, Shrek, what we gonna do when we get our swamp anyway?
SHREK: Our swamp?
DONKEY: You know, when we're through rescuing the princess.
SHREK: We? Donkey, there's no "we". There's no "our". There's just me and my swamp. The first thing I'm gonna do is build a ten-foot wall around my land.
DONKEY: You cut me deep, Shrek. You cut me real deep just now. You know what I think? I think this whole wall thing is just a way to keep somebody out.
SHREK: No, do ya think?
DONKEY: Are you hidin' something?
SHREK: Never mind, Donkey.
DONKEY: Oh, this is another one of those onion things, isn't it?
SHREK: No, this is one of those drop-it and leave-it alone things.
DONKEY: Why don't you want to talk about it?
SHREK: Why do you want to talk about it?
DONKEY: Why are you blocking?
SHREK: I'm not blocking.
DONKEY: Oh, yes, you are.
SHREK: Donkey, I'm warning you.
DONKEY: Who you trying to keep out?
SHREK: Everyone! Okay?
DONKEY: ( pause ) Oh, now we're gettin' somewhere. ( grins )
SHREK: Oh! For the love of Pete! ( gets up and walks over to the edge of the cliff and sits down )
DONKEY: What's your problem? What you got against the whole world anyway?
SHREK: Look, I'm not the one with the problem, okay? It's the world that seems to have a problem with me. People take one look at me and go. "Aah! Help! Run! A big, stupid, ugly ogre!" They judge me before they even know me. That's why I'm better off alone.
DONKEY: You know what? When we met, I didn't think you was just a big, stupid, ugly Yeah, I know.
SHREK: Yeah, I know.
DONKEY: So, uh, are there any donkeys up there?
SHREK: Well, there's, um, Gabby, the Small and Annoying.
DONKEY: Okay, okay, I see it now. The big shiny one, right there. That one there?
SHREK: That's the moon.
DONKEY: Oh, okay.
FARQUAAD: Again, show me again. Mirror, mirror, show her to me. Show me the princess.
MIRROR: The Mirror rewinds and begins to play again from the beginning.
FARQUAAD: Ah. Perfect.
MORNING: Fiona walks out of the cave. She glances at Shrek and Donkey who are still sleeping. She wanders off into the woods and comes across a blue bird. She begins to sing. The bird sings along with her. She hits higher and higher notes and the bird struggles to keep up with her. Suddenly the pressure of the note is too big and the bird explodes. Fiona looks a little sheepish, but she eyes the eggs that the bird left behind. Time lapse, Fiona is now cooking the eggs for breakfast. Shrek and Donkey are still sleeping. Shrek wakes up and looks at Fiona. Donkey's talking in his sleep.
DONKEY: ( quietly ) Mmm, yeah, you know I like it like that. Come on, baby. I said I like it.
SHREK: Donkey, wake up. ( shakes him )
DONKEY: Huh? What?
SHREK: Wake up.
DONKEY: What? ( stretches and yawns )
FIONA: Good morning. Hm, how do you like your Oh, good morning, Princess!
DONKEY: Oh, good morning, Princess!
SHREK: What's all this about?
FIONA: You know, we kind of got off to a bad start yesterday. I wanted to make it up to you. I mean, after all, you did rescue me.
SHREK: Uh, thanks.
FIONA: Well, eat up. We've got a big day ahead of us. ( walks off )
LATER: They are once again on their way. They are walking through the forest. Shrek belches.
DONKEY: What? It's a compliment. Better out than in, I always say. ( laughs )
SHREK: What? It's a compliment. Better out than in, I always say. ( laughs )
DONKEY: Well, it's no way to behave in front of a princess.
FIONA: She's as nasty as you are.
DONKEY: She's as nasty as you are.
SHREK: ( chuckles ) You know, you're not exactly what I expected.
FIONA: Well, maybe you shouldn't judge people before you get to know them.
ROBIN HOOD: La liberte! Hey!
SHREK: ( to Robin Hood ) What are you doing?
FIONA: ( to Robin Hood ) What are you doing?
ROBIN HOOD: Be still, mon cherie, for I am you savior! And I am rescuing you from this green.( kisses up her arm while Fiona pulls back in disgust ).beast.
SHREK: Hey! That's my princess! Go find you Please, monster! Can't you see I'm a little busy here?
ROBIN HOOD: Please, monster! Can't you see I'm a little busy here?
FIONA: ( getting fed up ) Look, pal, I don't know who you think you are!
ROBIN HOOD: Oh! Of course! Oh, how rude. Please let me introduce myself. Oh, Merry Men. ( laughs )
MERRY MEN: Ta, dah, dah, dah, whoo.
ROBIN HOOD: I steal from the rich and give to the He takes a wee percentage,
MERRY MEN: He takes a wee percentage,
ROBIN HOOD: But I'm not greedy. I rescue pretty damsels, man, I'm good.
MERRY MEN: What a guy, Monsieur Hood.
ROBIN HOOD: Break it down. I like an honest fight and a saucy little maid.
MERRY MEN: What he's basically saying is he likes to get.
ROBIN HOOD: Paid. So.When an ogre in the bush grabs a lady by the tush. That's bad.
MERRY MEN: That's bad.
ROBIN HOOD: When a beauty's with a beast it makes me awfully mad.
MERRY MEN: He's mad, he's really, really mad.
ROBIN HOOD: I'll take my blade and ram it through your heart, keep your eyes on me, boys 'cause I'm about to start.
FIONA: Man, that was annoying!
MERRY MAN: Oh, you little- - ( shoots an arrow at Fiona but she ducks out of the way )
FIONA: Uh, shall we?
SHREK: Hold the phone. ( drops Donkey and begins walking after Fiona ) Oh! Whoa, whoa, whoa. Hold on now. Where did that come That! Back there. That was amazing! Where did you learn that?
FIONA: That! Back there. That was amazing! Where did you learn that?
SHREK: That! Back there. That was amazing! Where did you learn that?
FIONA: Well.( laughs ) when one lives alone, uh, one has to learn these things in case there's a.( gasps and points ) there's an arrow in your butt!
SHREK: What? ( turns and looks ) Oh, would you look at that? ( he goes to pull it out but flinches because it's tender )
FIONA: Oh, no. This is all my fault. I'm so ( walking up ) Why? What's wrong?
DONKEY: ( walking up ) Why? What's wrong?
FIONA: Shrek's hurt.
DONKEY: Shrek's hurt. Shrek's hurt? Oh, no, Shrek's gonna die.
SHREK: Donkey, I'm okay.
DONKEY: You can't do this to me, Shrek. I'm too young for you to die. Keep you legs elevated. Turn your head and cough. Does anyone know the Heimlich?
FIONA: Donkey! Calm down. If you want to help Shrek, run into the woods and find me a blue flower with red thorns.
DONKEY: Blue flower, red thorns. Okay, I'm on it. Blue flower, red thorns. Don't die Shrek. If you see a long tunnel, stay away from the light!
DONKEY: Oh, yeah. Right. Blue flower, red thorns. ( runs off )
SHREK: What are the flowers for?
FIONA: ( like it's obvious ) For getting rid of Donkey.
SHREK: Now you hold still, and I'll yank this thing out. ( gives the arrow a little pull )
FIONA: Now you hold still, and I'll yank this thing out. ( gives the arrow a little pull )
SHREK: ( jumps away ) Ow! Hey! Easy with the
FIONA: I'm sorry, but it has to come out.
SHREK: No, it's tender.
FIONA: Now, hold on.
SHREK: What you're doing is the opposite of Don't move.
FIONA: Don't move.
SHREK: Look, time out.
FIONA: Would you.( grunts as Shrek puts his hand over her face to stop her from getting at the arrow ) Okay. What do you propose we do?
ELSEWHERE: Donkey is still looking for the special flower.
DONKEY: Blue flower, red thorns. Blue flower, red thorns. Blue flower, red thorns. This would be so much easier if I wasn't color-blind! Blue flower, red thorns.
SHREK: ( os ) Ow!
DONKEY: Hold on, Shrek! I'm comin'! ( rips a flower off a nearby bush that just happens to be a blue flower with red thorns )
SHREK: Ow! Not good.
FIONA: Okay. Okay. I can nearly see the head. ( Shrek grunts as she pulls ) It's just Ow! Ohh! ( he jerks and manages to fall over with Fiona on top of him )
SHREK: Ow! Ohh! ( he jerks and manages to fall over with Fiona on top of him )
DONKEY: ( throwing Fiona off of him ) Nothing happend. We were just, uh - -
SHREK: ( throwing Fiona off of him ) Nothing happend. We were just, uh - -
DONKEY: Look, if you wanted to be alone, all you had to do was ask. Okay?
SHREK: Oh, come on! That's the last thing on my mind. The princess here was just- - ( Fiona pulls the arrow out ) Ugh! ( he turns to look at Fiona who holds up the arrow with a smile ) Ow!
DONKEY: Hey, what's that? ( nervous chuckle ) That's.is that blood?
WINDMILL: There it is, Princess. Your future awaits That's DuLoc?
SHREK: There it is, Princess. Your future awaits That's DuLoc?
FIONA: That's DuLoc?
DONKEY: Yeah, I know. You know, Shrek thinks Lord Farquaad's compensating for something, which I think means he has a really.( Shrek steps on his hoof ) Ow!
SHREK: Um, I, uh- - I guess we better move Sure. But, Shrek? I'm - - I'm worried about Donkey.
FIONA: Sure. But, Shrek? I'm - - I'm worried about Donkey.
SHREK: I mean, look at him. He doesn't look so good.
FIONA: I mean, look at him. He doesn't look so good.
DONKEY: What are you talking about? I'm fine.
FIONA: ( kneels to look him in the eyes ) That's what they always say, and then next thing you know, you're on your back. ( pause ) Dead.
SHREK: You know, she's right. You look awful. Do you want to sit down?
FIONA: Uh, you know, I'll make you some tea.
DONKEY: I didn't want to say nothin', but I got this twinge in my neck, and when I turn my head like this, look, ( turns his neck in a very sharp way until his head is completely sideways ) Ow! See?
SHREK: Who's hungry? I'll find us some dinner.
FIONA: I'll get the firewood.
DONKEY: Hey, where you goin'? Oh, man, I can't feel my toes! ( looks down and yelps ) I don't have any toes! I think I need a hug.
SUNSET: Shrek has built a fire and is cooking the rest of dinner while Fiona eats.
FIONA: Mmm. This is good. This is really good. What is this?
SHREK: Uh, weed rat. Rotisserie style.
FIONA: No kidding. Well, this is delicious.
SHREK: Well, they're also great in stews. Now, I don't mean to brag, but I make a mean weed rat stew. ( chuckles )
FIONA: I guess I'll be dining a little differently tomorrow night.
SHREK: Maybe you can come visit me in the swamp sometime. I'll cook all kind of stuff for you. Swamp toad soup, fish eye tartare - - you name it.
FIONA: ( smiles ) I'd like that.
SHREK: Um, Princess?
FIONA: Yes, Shrek?
SHREK: I, um, I was wondering.are you.( sighs ) Are you gonna eat that?
DONKEY: ( chuckles ) Man, isn't this romantic? Just look at that sunset.
FIONA: ( jumps up ) Sunset? Oh, no! I mean, it's late. I-It's very late.
SHREK: Wait a minute. I see what's goin' on here. You're afraid of the dark, aren't Yes! Yes, that's it. I'm terrified. You know, I'd better go inside.
DONKEY: Wait a minute. I see what's goin' on here. You're afraid of the dark, aren't Yes! Yes, that's it. I'm terrified. You know, I'd better go inside.
FIONA: Yes! Yes, that's it. I'm terrified. You know, I'd better go inside.
DONKEY: Don't feel bad, Princess. I used to be afraid of the dark, too, until - - Hey, no, wait. I'm still afraid of the dark.
FIONA: Good night.
SHREK: Good night.
DONKEY: Ohh! Now I really see what's goin' on Oh, what are you talkin' about?
SHREK: Oh, what are you talkin' about?
DONKEY: I don't even wanna hear it. Look, I'm an animal, and I got instincts. And I know you two were diggin' on each other. I could feel it.
SHREK: You're crazy. I'm just bringing her back to Farquaad.
DONKEY: Oh, come on, Shrek. Wake up and smell the pheromones. Just go on in and tell her how you feel.
SHREK: I- - There's nothing to tell. Besides, even if I did tell her that, well, you know - - and I'm not sayin' I do 'cause I don't - - she's a princess, and I'm
DONKEY: An ogre?
SHREK: Yeah. An ogre.
DONKEY: Hey, where you goin'?
SHREK: To get. move firewood. ( sighs )
TIME LAPSE: Donkey opens the door to the Windmill and walks in. Fiona is nowhere to be seen.
DONKEY: Princess? Princess Fiona? Princess, where are you? Princess?
DONKEY: It's very spooky in here. I ain't playing no games.
DONKEY: Oh, no!
FIONA: Oh, no!
DONKEY: No, help!
FIONA: Shrek! Shrek! Shrek!
DONKEY: Shrek! Shrek! Shrek!
FIONA: No, it's okay. It's okay.
DONKEY: What did you do with the princess?
FIONA: Donkey, I'm the princess.
DONKEY: It's me, in this body.
FIONA: It's me, in this body.
DONKEY: Oh, my God! You ate the princess. ( to her stomach ) Can you hear me?
FIONA: ( still aimed at her stomach ) Listen, keep breathing! I'll get you out of Shrek! Shrek! Shrek!
DONKEY: ( still aimed at her stomach ) Listen, keep breathing! I'll get you out of Shrek! Shrek! Shrek!
FIONA: Shrek! Shrek! Shrek!
DONKEY: Shrek! Shrek! Shrek!
FIONA: This is me. Princess? What happened to you? You're, uh, uh, uh, different.
DONKEY: This is me. Princess? What happened to you? You're, uh, uh, uh, different.
FIONA: This is me. Princess? What happened to you? You're, uh, uh, uh, different.
DONKEY: Princess? What happened to you? You're, uh, uh, uh, different.
FIONA: I'm ugly, okay?
DONKEY: Well, yeah! Was it something you ate? 'Cause I told Shrek those rats was a bad idea. You are what you eat, I said. Now - -
FIONA: No. I - - I've been this way as long as I can remember.
DONKEY: What do you mean? Look, I ain't never seen you like this before.
FIONA: It only happens when sun goes down. "By night one way, by day another. This shall be the norm. until you find true love's first kiss. and then take love's true form."
DONKEY: Ah, that's beautiful. I didn't know you wrote poetry.
FIONA: It's a spell. ( sigh ) When I was a little girl, a witch cast a spell on me. Every night I become this. This horrible, ugly beast! I was placed in a tower to await the day my true love would rescue me. That's why I have to marry Lord Farquaad tomorrow before the sun sets and he sees me like this. ( begins to cry )
DONKEY: All right, all right. Calm down. Look, it's not that bad. You're not that ugly. Well, I ain't gonna lie. You are ugly. But you only look like this at night. Shrek's ugly 24-7.
FIONA: But Donkey, I'm a princess, and this is not how a princess is meant to look.
DONKEY: Princess, how 'bout if you don't marry I have to. Only my true love's kiss can break the spell.
FIONA: I have to. Only my true love's kiss can break the spell.
DONKEY: But, you know, um, you're kind of an orge, and Shrek - - well, you got a lot in common.
FIONA: Shrek is walking towards the windmill with a sunflower in his
OUTSIDE: Shrek is walking towards the windmill with a sunflower in his
SHREK: ( to himself ) Princess, I - - Uh, how's it going, first of all? Good? Um, good for me too. I'm okay. I saw this flower and thought of you because it's pretty and - - well, I don't really like it, but I thought you might like it 'cause you're pretty. But I like you anyway. I'd - - uh, uh.( sighs ) I'm in trouble. Okay, here we go.
FIONA: ( os ) I can't just marry whoever I want. Take a good look at me, Donkey. I mean, really, who can ever love a beast so hideous and ugly? "Princess" and "ugly" don't go together. That's why I can't stay here with Shrek.
FIONA: ( os ) My only chance to live happily ever after is to marry my true love.
INSIDE: Don't you see, Donkey? That's just how it has to be. It's the only way to break the spell.
FIONA: Don't you see, Donkey? That's just how it has to be. It's the only way to break the spell.
DONKEY: You at least gotta tell Shrek the truth.
FIONA: No! You can't breathe a word. No one must ever know.
DONKEY: What's the point of being able to talk if you gotta keep secrets?
FIONA: Promise you won't tell. Promise!
DONKEY: All right, all right. I won't tell him. But you should. ( goes outside ) I just know before this is over, I'm gonna need a whole lot of serious therapy. Look at my eye twitchin'.
MORNING: Donkey is asleep. Shrek is nowhere to be seen. Fiona is still awake. She is plucking petals from the sunflower.
FIONA: I tell him, I tell him not. I tell him, I tell him not. I tell him. ( she quickly runs to the door and goes outside ) Shrek! Shrek, there's something I want.( she looks and sees the rising sun, and as the sun crests the sky she turns back into a human. )
FIONA: Shrek. Are you all right?
SHREK: Perfect! Never been better.
FIONA: I - - I don't - - There's something I have to tell you.
SHREK: You don't have to tell me anything, Princess. I heard enough last night.
FIONA: You heard what I said?
SHREK: Every word.
FIONA: I thought you'd understand.
SHREK: Oh, I understand. Like you said, "Who could love a hideous, ugly beast?"
FIONA: But I thought that wouldn't matter to Yeah? Well, it does. ( Fiona looks at him in shock. He looks past her and spots a group approaching. ) Ah, right on time. Princess, I've brought you a little something.
SHREK: Yeah? Well, it does. ( Fiona looks at him in shock. He looks past her and spots a group approaching. ) Ah, right on time. Princess, I've brought you a little something.
DONKEY: What'd I miss? What'd I miss? ( spots the soldiers ) ( muffled ) Who said that? Couldn't have been the donkey.
FARQUAAD: Princess Fiona.
SHREK: As promised. Now hand it over.
FARQUAAD: Very well, ogre. ( holds out a piece of paper ) The deed to your swamp, cleared out, as agreed. Take it and go before I change my mind. ( Shrek takes the paper ) Forgive me, Princess, for startling you, but you startled me, for I have never seen such a radiant beauty before. I'm Lord Farquaad.
FIONA: Lord Farquaad? Oh, no, no. ( Farquaad snaps his fingers ) Forgive me, my lord, for I was just saying a short. ( Watches as Farquaad is lifted off his horse and set down in front of her. He comes to her waist. ) farewell.
FARQUAAD: Oh, that is so sweet. You don't have to waste good manners on the ogre. It's not like it has feelings.
FIONA: No, you're right. It doesn't.
FARQUAAD: Princess Fiona, beautiful, fair, flawless Fiona. I ask your hand in marriage. Will you be the perfect bride for the perfect groom?
FIONA: Lord Farquaad, I accept. Nothing would make - -
FARQUAAD: ( interrupting ) Excellent! I'll start the plans, for tomorrow we wed!
FIONA: No! I mean, uh, why wait? Let's get married today before the sun sets.
FARQUAAD: Oh, anxious, are you? You're right. The sooner, the better. There's so much to do! There's the caterer, the cake, the band, the guest list. Captain, round up some guests! ( a guard puts Fiona on the back of his horse )
FIONA: Fare-thee-well, ogre.
DONKEY: Shrek, what are you doing? You're letting her get away.
SHREK: Yeah? So what?
DONKEY: Shrek, there's something about her you don't know. Look, I talked to her last night, She's - -
SHREK: I know you talked to her last night. You're great pals, aren't ya? Now, if you two are such good friends, why don't you follow her home?
DONKEY: Shrek, I - - I wanna go with you.
SHREK: I told you, didn't I? You're not coming home with me. I live alone! My swamp! Me! Nobody else! Understand? Nobody! Especially useless, pathetic, annoying, talking donkeys!
DONKEY: But I thought - -
SHREK: Yeah. You know what? You thought wrong! ( stomps off )
DONKEY: Montage of different scenes. Shrek arriving back home. Fiona being fitted for the wedding dress. Donkey at a stream running into the dragon. Shrek cleaning up his house. Fiona eating dinner alone. Shrek eating dinner alone.
SHREK'S HOME: Shrek is eating dinner when he hears a sound outside. He goes outside to investigate.
SHREK: Donkey? ( Donkey ignores him and continues with what he's doing. ) What are you I would think, of all people, you would recognize a wall when you see one.
DONKEY: I would think, of all people, you would recognize a wall when you see one.
SHREK: Well, yeah. But the wall's supposed to go around my swamp, not through it.
DONKEY: It is around your half. See that's your half, and this is my half.
SHREK: Oh! Your half. Hmm.
DONKEY: Yes, my half. I helped rescue the princess. I did half the work. I get half the booty. Now hand me that big old rock, the one that looks like your head.
SHREK: Back off!
DONKEY: No, you back off.
SHREK: This is my swamp!
DONKEY: Our swamp.
SHREK: ( grabs the tree branch Donkey is working with ) Let go, Donkey!
DONKEY: You let go.
SHREK: Stubborn jackass!
DONKEY: Smelly ogre.
SHREK: Fine! ( drops the tree branch and walks away )
DONKEY: Hey, hey, come back here. I'm not through with you yet.
SHREK: Well, I'm through with you.
DONKEY: Uh-uh. You know, with you it's always, "Me, me, me!" Well, guess what! Now it's my turn! So you just shut up and pay attention! You are mean to me. You insult me and you don't appreciate anything that I do! You're always pushing me around or pushing me away.
SHREK: Oh, yeah? Well, if I treated you so bad, how come you came back?
DONKEY: Because that's what friends do! They forgive each other!
SHREK: Oh, yeah. You're right, Donkey. I forgive you. for stabbin' me in the back! ( goes into the outhouse and slams the door )
DONKEY: Ohh! You're so wrapped up in layers, onion boy, you're afraid of your own ( os ) Go away!
SHREK: ( os ) Go away!
DONKEY: There you are , doing it again just like you did to Fiona. All she ever do was like you, maybe even love you.
SHREK: ( os ) Love me? She said I was ugly, a hideous creature. I heard the two of you talking.
DONKEY: She wasn't talkin' about you. She was talkin' about, uh, somebody else.
SHREK: ( opens the door and comes out ) She wasn't talking about me? Well, then who was she talking about?
DONKEY: Uh-uh, no way. I ain't saying anything. You don't wanna listen to me. Right? Okay, look. I'm sorry, all right? ( sigh ) I'm sorry. I guess I am just a big, stupid, ugly ogre. Can you forgive me?
SHREK: Okay, look. I'm sorry, all right? ( sigh ) I'm sorry. I guess I am just a big, stupid, ugly ogre. Can you forgive me?
DONKEY: Okay, look. I'm sorry, all right? ( sigh ) I'm sorry. I guess I am just a big, stupid, ugly ogre. Can you forgive me?
SHREK: Okay, look. I'm sorry, all right? ( sigh ) I'm sorry. I guess I am just a big, stupid, ugly ogre. Can you forgive me?
DONKEY: Hey, that's what friends are for, right?
SHREK: Right. Friends?
DONKEY: So, um, what did Fiona say about me?
SHREK: So, um, what did Fiona say about me?
DONKEY: What are you asking me for? Why don't you just go ask her?
SHREK: The wedding! We'll never make it in Ha-ha-ha! Never fear, for where, there's a will, there's a way and I have a way. ( whistles )
DONKEY: Ha-ha-ha! Never fear, for where, there's a will, there's a way and I have a way. ( whistles )
SHREK: I guess it's just my animal magnetism.
DONKEY: I guess it's just my animal magnetism.
SHREK: Aw, come here, you. ( gives Donkey a noogie )
DONKEY: All right, all right. Don't get all slobbery. No one likes a kiss ass. All right, hop on and hold on tight. I haven't had a chance to install the seat belts
PRIEST: People of DuLoc, we gather here today to bear witness to the union..
FIONA: ( eyeing the setting sun ) Um-
PRIEST: .of our new king.
FIONA: Excuse me. Could we just skip ahead to the "I do's"?
FARQUAAD: ( chuckles and then motions to the priest to indulge Fiona ) Go on.
COURTYARD: Some guards are milling around. Suddenly the dragon lands with a boom. The guards all take off running.
DONKEY: ( to Dragon ) Go ahead, HAVE SOME FUN. If we need you, I'll whistle. How about that? ( she nods and goes after the guards ) Shrek, wait, wait! Wait a minute! You wanna do this right, don't you?
SHREK: ( at the Church door ) What are you talking There's a line you gotta wait for. The preacher's gonna say, "Speak now or forever hold your peace." That's when you say, "I object!"
DONKEY: There's a line you gotta wait for. The preacher's gonna say, "Speak now or forever hold your peace." That's when you say, "I object!"
SHREK: I don't have time for this!
DONKEY: Hey, wait. What are you doing? Listen to me! Look, you love this woman, don't You wanna hold her?
SHREK: You wanna hold her?
DONKEY: You wanna hold her?
SHREK: Please her?
DONKEY: Please her?
SHREK: ( singing James Brown style ) Then you got to, got to try a little tenderness. ( normal ) The chicks love that romantic All right! Cut it out. When does this guy say the line?
DONKEY: ( singing James Brown style ) Then you got to, got to try a little tenderness. ( normal ) The chicks love that romantic All right! Cut it out. When does this guy say the line?
SHREK: All right! Cut it out. When does this guy say the line?
DONKEY: We gotta check it out.
INSIDE CHURCH: As the priest talks we see Donkey's shadow through one of the windows Shrek tosses him up so he can see.
PRIEST: And so, by the power vested in me.
SHREK: What do you see?
DONKEY: The whole town's in there. I now pronounce you husband and wife.
PRIEST: I now pronounce you husband and wife.
DONKEY: They're at the altar. .king and queen. Mother Fletcher! He already said it.
PRIEST: .king and queen. Mother Fletcher! He already said it.
DONKEY: Mother Fletcher! He already said it.
SHREK: Oh, for the love of Pete!
INSIDE CHURCH: ( running toward the alter ) I object!
SHREK: ( running toward the alter ) I object!
FIONA: The whole congregation gasps as they see Shrek.
FARQUAAD: Oh, now what does he want?
SHREK: ( to congregation as he reaches the front of the Church ) Hi, everyone. Havin' a good time, are ya? I love DuLoc, first of all. Very clean.
FIONA: What are you doing here?
SHREK: Really, it's rude enough being alive when no one wants you, but showing up uninvited to a wedding.
SHREK: Fiona! I need to talk to you.
FIONA: Oh, now you wanna talk? It's a little late for that, so if you'll excuse me
SHREK: But you can't marry him.
FIONA: And why not?
SHREK: Because- - Because he's just marring you so he can be king.
FARQUAAD: Outrageous! Fiona, don't listen to him.
SHREK: He's not your true love.
FIONA: And what do you know about true love?
SHREK: Well, I - - Uh - - I mean - -
FARQUAAD: Oh, this is precious. The ogee has fallen in love with the princess! Oh, good Lord. ( laughs )
FARQUAAD: An ogre and a princess!
FIONA: Shrek, is this true?
FARQUAAD: Who cares? It's preposterous! Fiona, my love, we're but a kiss away from our "happily ever after." Now kiss me! ( puckers his lips and leans toward her, but she pulls back. )
FIONA: ( looking at the setting sun ) "By night one way, by day another." ( to Shrek ) I wanted to show you before.
SHREK: Well, uh, that explains a lot. ( Fiona smiles )
FARQUAAD: Ugh! It's disgusting! Guards! Guards! I order you to get that out of my sight now! Get them! Get them both!
SHREK: No, no!
FIONA: This hocus-pocus alters nothing. This marriage is binding, and that makes me king! See? See?
FARQUAAD: This hocus-pocus alters nothing. This marriage is binding, and that makes me king! See? See?
FIONA: No, let go of me! Shrek!
SHREK: Don't just stand there, you morons.
FARQUAAD: Don't just stand there, you morons.
SHREK: Get out of my way! Fiona! Arrgh!
FARQUAAD: I'll make you regret the day we met. I'll see you drawn and quartered! You'll beg for death to save you!
FIONA: No, Shrek!
FARQUAAD: ( hold a dagger to Fiona's throat ) And as for you, my wife.
SHREK: I'll have you locked back in that tower for the rest of your days! I'm king!
FARQUAAD: I'll have you locked back in that tower for the rest of your days! I'm king!
FARQUAAD: I will have order! I will have perfection! I will have - - ( Donkey and the dragon show up and the dragon leans down and eats Farquaad ) Aaaah! Aah!
DONKEY: All right. Nobody move. I got a dragon here, and I'm not afraid to use it. ( The dragon roars. ) I'm a donkey on the edge!
DONKEY: Celebrity marriages. They never last, do they?
DONKEY: Go ahead, Shrek.
SHREK: Uh, Fiona?
FIONA: Yes, Shrek?
SHREK: I - - I love you.
FIONA: Really, really.
SHREK: Really, really.
FIONA: ( smiles ) I love you too.
CONGREGATION: Suddenly the magic of the spell pulls Fiona away. She's lifted up into the air and she hovers there while the magic works around
WHISPERS: "Until you find true love's first kiss and then take love's true form. Take love's true form. Take love's true form."
SHREK: ( going over to her ) Fiona? Fiona. Are you all right?
FIONA: ( standing up, she's still an ogre ) Well, yes. But I don't understand. I'm supposed to be beautiful.
SHREK: But you ARE beautiful.
DONKEY: ( chuckles ) I was hoping this would be a happy ending.
THE SWAMP: .their wedding kiss. Shrek and Fiona are now married. 'I'm a Believer' by Smashmouth is played in the background. Shrek and Fiona break apart and run through the crowd to their awaiting carriage. Which is made of a giant onion. Fiona tosses her bouquet which both Cinderella and Snow White try to catch. But they end up getting into a cat fight and so the dragon catches the bouquet instead. The Gingerbread man has been mended somewhat and now has one leg and walks with a candy cane cane. Shrek and Fiona walk off as the rest of the guests party and Donkey takes over singing the song.
GINGERBREAD MAN: God bless us, every one.
DONKEY: ( as he's done singing and we fade to black ) Oh, that's funny. Oh. Oh. I can't breathe. I can't breathe.
THE END: Writers : William Steig Ted Elliott
