"THE SIEGE": Screenplay by Lawrence Wright
SHOOTING DRAFT: FADE IN: EXT. TYRE, LEBANON - DAY A coast road. Date palms. Burnt-out hulks that once were Russian T-54 TANKS have long ago been left to rust in the sun. A 4-door MERCEDES hurtles down the ancient road.
PRESIDENT CLINTON: "To any lengths, anywhere in the world, to bring these people to
THE MERCEDES: Has been turned into an abattoir, its windshield shattered and bloody. The driver slumps over the steering wheel, the bodyguard is half out of the window. And in the distance:
DEVEREAUX: IN A SAFE HOUSE SOMETIME LATER A pale, diminished Sheik sits at a steelcase table. A STEEL COT and a STEEL TOILET. Closed-circuit cameras in the corner. Opposite him: the man, whose voice we have only heard: GENERAL WILLIAM DEVEREAUX and though he wears a civilian suit, his bearing betrays his pedigree. His considerable charm and habitual skepticism are as much a product of self-discipline as his close-order drill.
DEVEREAUX: Nobody knows you're here. Not your people. Not even my President. You'll die here alone and be buried unknown barring some miracle.
DEVEREAUX: God? GOD? What you eat. Whether you eat. Sleep. Pain. Absence of pain. I decide. I make the day and the night. Even the way you got here a hand that reached down from the sky? God? I am your new God.
MUEZZIN: Allahuh Akbar.
THE MINARET: Of the Mosque, we DISCOVER not an Arab city, but instead the unmistakable skyline of:
DOWNTOWN MANHATTAN: The World Trade Ctr, Wall Street, The Federal building.
TINA: Brooklyn South issued a code blue less than two minutes ago. They think hostages are involved.
FRANK: Black-and-whites on the scene?
TINA: Setting up a perimeter now.
FRANK: Residence or business?
TINA: A bus.
HUB: On the way.
SWAT?: On the way.
FRANK: On the way.
HUB: Bomb squad?
TINA: Bomb squad?
HUB: Bomb squad?
HUB: How soon can we get there ?
FRANK: In this traffic, maybe tomorrow.
FRANK: Oh, fuck. It just blew.
HUB: That's what they're telling me.
FRANK: That's what they're telling me.
HUB: And nobody's hurt?
HUB: Thank God.
TAPED VOICE: our first and last warning.
TAPED VOICE: We expect our demand to be met. There will be no negotiation. That is all.
TINA: Demand for what? You hear any demand?
MIKE: You sure this is all they got?
SUSSMAN: That's it.
FRANK: Maybe it's performance art.
HUB: Okay. Blue paint. Voice-altering available from The Sharper Image Last I looked they weren't offering exploding paint bombs.
FRANK: available from The Sharper Image Last I looked they weren't offering exploding paint bombs.
SUSSMAN: Last I looked they weren't offering exploding paint bombs.
HUB: Still, the rhetoric sounds political. Not their style.
TINA: Not their style.
HUB: Frank ?
FRANK: Jihad isn't known for their sense of humor, and Hamas is raising so much money here, why queer their deal?
TINA: Anyway, isn't Green the color of Islam, not blue?
FRANK: And, excuse me, but why do we immediately assume they're Arabs?
HUB: I want a composite of the suspects in circulation by the end of business today. Tina, you cross-check it against the mainframe. Mike, have you got the lab analysis on the paint?
MIKE: Not yet.
HUB: See if any was sold in quantity the last month. Danny
HUB: find out what stop these guys got on the bus, maybe there's a witness.
FRANK: Hub. I think we're all eager to give up our weekends on this. It just occurs to me, has anybody even committed a crime here? I mean, assault with a deadly color?
HUB: Here's what I don't like. They know explosives. They know our response time. They put in a call and walk.
FRED: Excuse me, sir. I think you should see this. Came in on the Fax.
HUB: Release him? Him who? Who are we Marv Albert?
TINA: Marv Albert?
SUSSMAN: McVeigh? Sheik what's-his-name from the Trade Center.
FRANK: Omar Abdel Rahman. asshole.
FRED: The Hamas guy got released in April.
FRANK: Under protest.
HUB: ( looks at the fax ) Why be coy about it?
SUSSMAN: You think it's phony?
TINA: ( covering the phone ) Hub, somebody's flashing a government badge over at the warehouse where they're working on the bus. Our tech guys want to know if we're cooperating with any other agencies on this thing.
AGENT ROSE: She's looking for wiring signatures on the device and asking for copies of any latent prints we've managed to lift.
HUB: AGENT ROSE
AGENT ROSE: Smells like it. Turns out she's also been talking to some of the
HUB: Hi, there.
WOMAN: Hi, there.
HUB: Special Agent Anthony Hubbard. FBI.
WOMAN: Oh, shit, I've been trying to liaise with you all day. My name is Elise Kraft, National Security Council.
HUB: And you've been trying to "liaise" with me all day? Did you think of trying the phone book, Elise? We have fourteen lines, that's not counting the unlisted ones.
ELISE: ( still holds out hand ) Hi, I'm Elise Kraft, National Security
HUB: And I'm Colin Powell. What exactly do you people want with my bus.
ELISE: We're all on the same team here, Agent Hubbard.
HUB: Who exactly is "we" on this particular team, Elise?
ELISE: It's never the question that's indiscreet, only the answer.
HUB: Tell you what, you send me an official inter-agency request for cooperation on this and I'll give you copies of everything we come up with. Otherwise, get your ass on out of here before you contaminate my crime scene any more than you already have.
ELISE: There's no reason to be nasty.
HUB: You think this is nasty? In case you haven't heard. The CIA has no charter to operate domestically. Which puts you in violation of federal law.
ELISE: Not according to the Cooperation Agreement, Special Order 12333 I suggest you reread the paragraph on sharing information. I happen to be well within my authority.
HUB: Special Order 12333 refers to domestic terrorism. You got something you want to "share" with me? Us being teammates and all?
ELISE: ( holds up a clipboard ) Unfortunately, not yet. But as soon as I do, I'll
HUB: get back to me, yeah, I know. Here's what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna have a couple my "teammates" here escort you back to wherever you came from. And then I'm gonna go back to the office and wait for that official cooperation request. Okay by you?
ELISE: Nice meeting you, Elise. Is that Elise with an "E" or an "A"?
HUB: Nice meeting you, Elise. Is that Elise with an "E" or an "A"?
ELISE: Nice meeting you, too, Special Agent
HUB: Tail her.
TEACHER: ( in Arabic ) "Make me know that which I have become ignorant of; and make me recite it in the hours of the night and the day; and make it an argument for me O Thou Sustainer of all the worlds!"
ALL: The guests mingle, eat pastries and drink sweet tea.
TINA: .Nice, wasn't it?
HUB: ( after a moment ) You ever gonna stop by, pick up your
TINA: ( after a moment ) You ever gonna stop by, pick up your
DANNY: He doing her?
MIKE: Some detective you are. They stopped.
FRED: Really? I wonder if she likes white I wonder if she likes bald guys.
DANNY: I wonder if she likes bald guys.
HUB: You must be so proud.
NAJIBA: Small children, small worries. Big you'll understand.
FRANK: big orthodontia bills. Someday, you'll understand.
FRANK: Where we going?
HUB: You're staying with your family. I'm back in the morning.
FRANK: You sleep here? Immigration called.
INS OFFICIAL: all in small bills. So we figure, smurf, right? Then I think, considering the gentleman's nationality, plus where he's been recently, we better call Frank.
FRANK: who's trying to score points with his boss, bigtime.
HUB: Has he broken any laws?
INS OFFICIAL: No, sir. He's twenty bucks under the $10,000 limit.
FRANK: ( pulls out a $20 bill ) Not anymore.
UNIFORMED OFFICIAL: .so, Kahlil, you're saying this is an INHERITANCE? Somebody DIED and you're bringing them the MONEY?
KAHLIL: No, no. dhouri.
FRANK: .He means, "dowry."
HUB: Check out his neck.
FRANK: The tabac. Sssssss. The territories.
HUB: ( thinks a moment ) Put him in play.
HUB: ( on the phone ) on the Van Wyck. No, not yet. ( to Frank ) What are we in?
FRANK: A '97 Contour. On my Visa. Back home, the security services'd be up this guy's ass with a poker, but what do we do, we let him go.
HUB: ( still on the phone ) .Six teams on the ground, at least. well, pull 'em off the UN. ( to Haddad ) Stay back.
FRANK: Not my first date, Hub. He's taking the BQE. Looks like it's I want husbands and wives, I want baby carriages, and no Brooks You're micro-managing.
HUB: ( still on the phone ) I want husbands and wives, I want baby carriages, and no Brooks You're micro-managing.
FRANK: You're micro-managing.
HUB: ( still on the phone ) And find me a judge I can work with. We want sound on this guy. damn'. I'm losing you. ( raises his voice ) And bring us a radio.
FRANK: I get reimbursed for this, right?
FRANK: ( notes the purchase ) Twelve bucks in Gaza.
HUB: America's the place to be if you're a terrorist. Fred's hovering. Patsy, take over.
HUB: .Tell her to watch out for I got the Judge.
FRANK: ( hands him the phone ) I got the Judge.
HUB: ( on the phone ) .Good morning, Sir. How're things in the Second Circuit this morning.? .I hear you. Listen, Judge, we're in a kind of situation here.
HUB: ( on the phone ) Hold on, will ya, Judge? ( into walkie-talkie ) Is he talking to somebody, who's he talking to? Are we getting film?
HUB: ( covering the phone ) Don't know him. If we were allowed to get sound on them, we'd know him.
FRANK: Don't know him. If we were allowed to get sound on them, we'd know him.
HUB: ( covering the radio ) .What's that? No, Judge, not yet we're not. but we have reason to believe he may be involved with ( covers the phone again; keys the radio ) Damnit Tommy! ( to Frank ) He's overacting! Tell him ( back to the phone ) Sorry, Judge. No. I just
FRANK: He's making him. Shit. Fuck. He's
HUB: ( keys radio ) Go, go, go!!! All units
FRANK: ( on the phone ) Judge, I'm gonna have to call you
HUB: ( on the phone ) Judge, I'm gonna have to call you
KHALIL SPRINTS: Into an open-air MARKET, KNOCKING DOWN veiled WOMEN with bags of fruit and vegetables. He VAULTS over stalls. The CONTOUR scrapes PARKED CARS as it swerves into an alley, desperately trying to cut off Khalil's escape route.
FRANK: Shit ! I didn't take the insurance.
A VAN: Bears down on Khalil, its doors sliding open as TWO PAIRS OF HANDS reach out and ANOTHER MAN appears out of nowhere and BODYCHECKS Khalil into the van and jumps in after him.
HUB: What the ?
MINUTES LATER: An impromptu huddle in the alley. AGENTS gather in a circle as RADIOS SQUELCH and HELICOPTERS circle above.
FRED: They just found the van. Doesn't look like they're gonna find any
HUB: Run him down, bring him in.
FRED: Floyd Rose.
HUB: Go, Floyd.
AGENT ROSE: I've got two in the Plymouth, at least three inside, and see that guy walking his dog.? He did his business about an hour ago and they're still walking.
DANNY: I had a dog like that once.
FRANK: It's not his dog, numbnuts. They're The dog works for the CIA?
DANNY: The dog works for the CIA?
HUB: Let's roll.
FRANK: Hi, guys, I expect you know the drill.
KHALIL: Sitting in a chair. Behind him stands one of FREELANCERS from the warehouse. And opposite him, in a barca-lounger: ELISE KRAFT Somehow amidst the normalcy of the furnished basement is a palpable feeling of menace. As Hub shows himself, one of the Freelancers points a Glock .9 at his head. Hub just stares him down.
ELISE: Ralph, spare us.
ELISE: I never touched him.
HUB: Really? I'm taking him into custody just the same.
ELISE: What are you going to charge him with? Jaywalking? I don't suppose we could just have a little chat with him here first?
HUB: Not in this lifetime.
ELISE: You know, Hub. may I call you Hub? If you guys hadn't blown the surveillance, we'd have been able to follow the money. What do you think, Khalil, you would have led us right to your friends, wouldn't you?
HUB: What friends ? What have you got for me, Elise?. Enlighten me. Tell me now or tell me downtown.
HUB: Get this guy out of here and book
ELISE: One phone call and he's mine again. You know the number. I have
HUB: You have "the right to remain silent," you have "the right to an attorney. Anything you say can and will be held against you in a court of law
ELISE: ( overlapping him ) Oh, come on. Do you have any idea what you're starting here, the kind of shitstorm you're about to
HUB: ( overiding her ) Kidnapping. Obstruction of Justice.
HUB: Cuff her.
FRANK: So, Elise. You okay back there, you don't get carsick or anything? Those handcuffs too tight ?
ELISE: Shouf mountains, right? Shiite or Wow. You're really good. She's really good.
FRANK: Wow. You're really good. She's really good.
HUB: You ready to tell us what's going on here, Elise ? Was the paintbomb a American University of Beirut? I was there from '79 to 82.
ELISE: ( to Haddad ) American University of Beirut? I was there from '79 to 82.
FRANK: ( a look to Hub ) No shit?
ELISE: My father taught Economics. Henry Is there a terrorist cell operating in this city that we are unaware of?
HUB: Is there a terrorist cell operating in this city that we are unaware of?
ELISE: ( ignoring him; to Haddad ) Such a tragedy. Growing up in that city was. paradise. Like an exotic Paris, wasn't it, Frank ?
HUB: You ever been in Rikers, Elise? You know what happens in there?
ELISE: Frank's BEEPER goes off. As they look at one another, we:
NYPD OFFICER: definitely Arab-types, only this time they're still in there.
HUB: Any communication at all?
NYPD OFFICER: Nope. It's weird they're just in Get the frequency of the driver's radio and patch it through to this number. We need two lines. Frank, get a negotiator out here.
HUB: Get the frequency of the driver's radio and patch it through to this number. We need two lines. Frank, get a negotiator out here.
HUB: That gives us something to work with.
ELISE: What's happening out there.
ELISE: They've taken another bus, haven't they? Talk to me.
HUB: Oh, now you want to talk. You want to be my friend, is that it?
ELISE: Listen, these guys are the real deal.
HUB: How do you know?
HUB: Is there a terrorist cell operating in Brooklyn?
ELISE: ( a long moment ) Was the blue paint a warning?
HUB: Was the blue paint a warning?
ELISE: Yes. And I'm afraid this time they'll blow the bus.
HUB: If they wanted to blow the bus then why haven't they blown the bus ?
ELISE: I. don't know.
ELISE: Agent Hubbard. Please. Maybe I can
FRANK: The driver's name is Larry Kaiser. He says they've got explosives strapped to their chests, they got automatic weapons, and they're speaking Arabic.
HUB: Where the hell's the negotiator?
FRANK: Tunnel's got twenty minute delays and they're working on both bridges.
HUB: ( to the cop ) What else did he say about the device? Did he describe it at all? Anything about a button, or a cord, or.
ELISE: ( almost involuntary ) Oh, God.
ELISE: ( as it dawns on her ) .They're not here to negotiate.
FRANK: They were waiting for the cameras.
ELISE: They were waiting for the cameras.
FRANK: Hub looks up. Frank nods for Elise to repeat what she said.
ELISE: They're want the newsies here. They want everybody watching.
ELISE: You've got the shooters in place?
FRANK: Use 'em.
ELISE: Use 'em.
HUB: Kill 'em now.
ELISE: Kill 'em now.
ELISE: It's lose-lose any way you play it. Do you want to lose little or lose
NYPD OFFICER: I got the marksmen on the com They're looking for a clean shot.
NYPD OFFICER: Shooter says they've got the passengers all standing in the aisles. He says, no go.
HUB: ( to the cops ) We have rules of engagement we're gonna follow here, folks, so put the safeties back on your weapons. ( looks at Elise ) Nobody's killing anybody until we see what's what.
HUB: ( on the phone ) Larry, this is Agent Hubbard of the FBI, I'll be negotiating our way out of this. Let me talk to one of them. I know. I know. You just hang in there, Larry. No, don't worry, I've got somebody here who can
HUB: ( on the phone ) Sir, My name is Anthony Hubbard. I don't have any authority to make deals, or respond to demands. I just want to find out if you need anything in there? If any of the passengers are in need of medical attention?
HUB: I don't know if they understand.
FRANK: I don't know if they understand.
HUB: ( on the phone ) Sir, is there anything you want to say to me? That I can tell my people The guy's just breathing into the phone, maybe they're not even Arabs.
FRANK: The guy's just breathing into the phone, maybe they're not even Arabs.
HUB: ( on the phone ) I get the feeling you don't want to talk, but will you listen ? .Whatever grievance you have, whatever quarrel surely it doesn't involve these children
HUB: ( on the phone ) So I'm gonna ask you to. please. let. the. children go.
FRANK: Okay, here we go.
HUB: ( on the phone ) Thank you, sir. I appreciate that gesture, I really do. The best way to get what you want in these situations is to show yourself to be reasonable. As you've just done. ( Haddad translates ) Now we've got some more to talk
HUB: ( on the phone ) I am unarmed, as you can see. So I propose. You let the rest of the passengers go, and I take their place. That way, there's no pizza deliveries or bathroom breaks to worry about and all these ( indicates SWAT teams ) people. will disappear.
HUB: ( on the phone ) I'm gonna take your silence to mean you're considering my offer
HUB: How about we just start with a few of the elderly people you got on there. It's got to be hard for the older folks to be standing all this
HUB: ( on the phone ) Thank you, sir. Now let's just let
SHRAPNEL: Imbeds itself into car doors, bus benches, doorways as every WINDOW in a three-block radius is SHATTERED.
RED BLOOD: Replaces blue paint in a horrific shower.
HUB: Fights for consciousness.
AGENTS: Rush to his side to see if he is alright but WE CANNOT HEAR them. Though their mouths move it is only the WHITE NOISE that overwhelms us as we realize that Hub has been momentarily DEAFENED by the blast. When at last Hub manages to speak, his words are MUFFLED and INDISTINCT as if the playback heads of a tape recorder needed to be cleaned.
HUB: I'm. alright. I'm
HUB: okay. Just let me
HUB: Is anybody
THE DEVASTATION: Is numbing. IMAGES we associate with other countries. And then he sees Elise. Her face is cut and bleeding, but as their eyes meet, her look is one of absolute compassion.
HUB: every trap, every hole. I want to rumble every mosque, every community center, every student organization that's ever said an unkind word. I want the heat turned up under all our assets, all our informers, every snitch gets twisted inside out. And put some money out on the street Arab community hates these people as much as we do. They'll help. Have you got positive ID on
MIKE: Hub, we don't have positive ID on We need more hands. Fred
HUB: We need more hands. Fred
FRED: I'm on it.
HUB: I want to talk to Khalil.
TINA: He's down the hall.
HUB: Conferences with DC at 9:00, 12:00, 4:00 and 9:00. Call your families, find a sleeping bag, nobody leaves this office until we have a strand to pull. Oklahoma City, people. The first twenty-four hours are the only twenty-four hours.. And I don't want to see anybody walking.
HUB: Doctor seen him?
TINA: He's on his way up.
HUB: Got a cigarette ?
TINA: You don't smoke.
THE CELL: Frank hangs back in the doorway. Hub pulls up a chair, turns it backwards, and sits down very close to Khalil.
HUB: Ten thousand dollars.
HUB: Khalil. I want to talk about the
HUB: Hub reaches into his pocket and casually takes out the pack of cigarettes. Khalil's eyes widen. Hub smiles at him. At the SOUND of the match lighting, SWEAT begins to bead on Khalil's forehead. Hub takes his time LIGHTING the cigarette drawing deep so the tip turns bright red. Khalil unconsciously RECOILS in his chair.
HUB: ( to Frank, re: Khalil ) Doesn't like second hand smoke.
HUB: You ready to talk about money?
FRANK: ( translating ) .He says he loves America and only wanted to get away from the security services at home.
FRANK: ( still translating ) .He says he's sorry but he didn't know he was doing something bad. His cousin introduced him to a man who promised him two hundred dollars for his dowry if he'd bring the suitcase to an address in Brooklyn. ( to Hub ) He's a cut-out.
HUB: Nasty habit. 3830 Flatbush Avenue.
HUB: We want every rental agreement from every landlord in Brooklyn. Hotels, motels, flophouses. It's cash, guys. They're the only ones in America using cash.
TECHNICIAN: This is a spectograph of the semtex used in the bomb. Look at the benzene spike. This is the genuine article. Now. this one's from the barracks in Dhahran. As you can see, the signature is identical.
HUB: ask it if they've ever hit buses?
WHITNEY: not according to the mainframe.
HUB: with a Q-tip. Bone shards, hair,
DANNY: He's way over his head.
FRANK: Shut the fuck up and go give somebody a parking ticket.
FINGERPRINT EXPERT: Not yet.
WHITNEY: You okay?
FINGERPRINT EXPERT: Got one!
HUB: Ladies and Gentlemen, meet the late Ali Waziri.
HUB: Tina talked to the Israelis and traced this sucker to a group operating out of Ramallah. That's the West Bank, not the West Side for those of you just joining us from Nebraska.
TINA: Okay, we've pulled his landing card and his I-94. So now we know he came in three days ago, out of Frankfurt
TINA: What we need now is to fill in the time between his arrival and the incident. All known associations, and most of all, we need an address.
FRANK: IAP66. What's IAP66?
DANNY: Hold on, hold on, I'm looking it up
FRANK: Today, Danny.
DANNY: Wait, wait Here we go. Student Visa, J-1.
HUB: Where's the original ?
DANNY: In his passport.
FRANK: Which is. vaporized.
HUB: Where's the copy?
FRANK: At the point of issuance. Could be the American Consulate in Tel Aviv. The American Consulate in Amman, Cairo, Alexandria, Riyadh all an easy drive from the West Bank
HUB: What time is it ?
DANNY: Three-fifteen. P.M. When's the last time you ate?
FRED: Sir. They want you in the lab.
FRED: You're saying they're Egyptian?
FIBER EXPERT: No. No. I'm just saying See.
HUB: It's what they use for funerals. The guy was wearing a shroud.
HUB: Let's see if she's ready to talk.
HUB: I thought one phone call and you were out of here.
ELISE: I didn't make the call.
HUB: Why not?
ELISE: Are you alright ?
HUB: Just some tinnitus in my left ear
HUB: I need to know what I don't know.
ELISE: Life's too short.
HUB: You hungry?
ELISE: We ordering in ?
ELISE: The funeral shroud is the final step in the ritual of self- purification. First a fast, then
HUB: the washing of the body, then the shroud. I saw it on Sixty Minutes. Tell me something I don't know.
ELISE: .Last March in Iraq, we identified the man we believe responsible for bombing the army barracks last year. In August, he went to Lebanon. Where he was. extracted.
HUB: Extracted? Extracted by whom? I see.
ELISE: His name is Sheik Ahmed bin Talal. He's Iraqi. And something of a religious leader.
HUB: With something of a devoted following? .Okay, I can understand why we might not want to publicize the fact that our government's in the kidnapping business, but why not tell us?
ELISE: He's still being. debriefed. They're not ready to go public with charges.
HUB: What else you got on his followers.
ELISE: Clearly, they're committed.
HUB: In this game, the most committed So they'll just keep coming until we release him.
ELISE: In this game, the most committed So they'll just keep coming until we release him.
HUB: So they'll just keep coming until we release him.
ELISE: Unless we match their commitment with our own.
HUB: What about talking to this sheik?
ELISE: You don't think they've got guys talking to the sheik? Except the sheik isn't talking.
HUB: So who's giving the orders? How do they coordinate, pick their targets?
ELISE: Believe me, we've put every resource we've got onto that very question. Otherwise. we wait.
HUB: We wait.
ELISE: If there's anybody on earth who knows how you feel, it's me. But you've got to let it go. Those people were dead the minute they got on the bus.
FRANK: Sorry, boss. Hello, Elise. Mmmm, is that pastrami? Oh, yeah, we made the guy in the
A CAFE: Where Students sit inside and SMOKE, then SMOKE some more.
FRANK: His name's Samir Nazhde. Teaches Arab Studies at Brooklyn College. He sponsored Ail Waziri's student visa. And dig this his brother blew up a movie theatre in Tel Aviv.
ELISE: You might consider leaving him alone.
HUB: Why would I consider doing that ?
ELISE: Play him like a cop and haul him in now and get your arrest, or tag him and let him lead you to the really big fish.
FRANK: ( an arabic curse ) You're fishing and he's getting visas for bombers.
ELISE: You ever heard of catch and release?
FRANK: Yes, and he's on the next plane for
HUB: Take him down.
FRANK: ( keys his radio )
FRANK: Samir Nazhde, my name is Frank Haddad, I'm a Federal Agent. We have reason to believe you are an accessory to the bombing of Bus 87.
SAMIR: Are you crazy ?
FRANK: You are an associate of Ali Waziri.
SAMIR: Who? I know no one by that name.
FRANK: You got him a student visa.
SAMIR: I sign these applications as a matter of course, hundreds of them. Everyone wants to come to the land of opportunity and Baywatch.
FRANK: You spent two years in Israeli jails during the Intifada.
SAMIR: The only ones who didn't were women like you.
HUB: Sorry. Family matter. You're going downtown, my friend.
FRANK: Sorry. Family matter. You're going downtown, my friend.
SAMIR: You cannot hold me. I know my rights. I watch American television.
FRANK: Defrauding the INS is a Federal Reservation for one, please.
ELISE: Club Fed.
FRANK: ( singing ) "Oh, Danny-boy, the perps, the perps, are call-ing. ( as he awakens ) We need a search warrant on Samir.
HUB: Frank, c'mere a sec. I want to show you something.
HUB: ( quietly ) Frank, you ever hit a prisoner again I'll have your badge.
FRANK: Someday I will tell you what those people did to my village in '71.
HUB: ( touches his arm ) Okay. But right now, act as if I'm capable of saying something funny. Now, let's go see about that warrant.
HUB: Find me a Judge who'll play ball this time. And set up a polygraph for Samir.
ELISE: I still don't understand why we're tipping our hand with him
FRANK: What's there to tip?
HUB: You're just trying to protect your Aren't you, Elise ? He's your Joe, your asset. He's working for you, you're his case officer right?
ELISE: .Sometimes. in addition to being a nationality, being a Palestinian is also a. profession. A lucrative Meaning, he's your Joe.
HUB: Meaning, he's your Joe.
ELISE: Mine. Yours. The Israelis. The Saudis. At one time or another, everybody in the Middle East has slept with everybody else.
FRANK: So you're saying. you sleep around?
ELISE: Only professionally.
HUB: So we share him.
ELISE: ( to Frank ) Call INS, find out his status and start deportation proceedings.
HUB: ( to Frank ) Call INS, find out his status and start deportation proceedings.
ELISE: I can't let you do that.
HUB: Oh, you can't let me do that. What precisely is your involvement with these people.
ELISE: ( sighs, then: ) Samir's been a very important. project of mine for some time. I'm the only one he'll deal with. He's very well-connected and extremely .Call the judge.
HUB: .Call the judge.
ELISE: ( looks at Frank ) How easy is it to get inside, Frank? How good are your sources in the mosques? How many people you got in Hamas ?
ELISE: No surveillance. I've seen your deft Daily reports. We tap his phone.
HUB: Daily reports. We tap his phone.
ELISE: And I get to see the transcripts.
HUB: Fair enough.
ELISE: And I run him.
HUB: We share him.
ELISE: He can't know we're talking.
HUB: Then don't tell him.
ELISE: ( to Frank ) Let him fly. ( back to her ) But we better start seeing product.
HUB: ( to Frank ) Let him fly. ( back to her ) But we better start seeing product.
HUB: Any more surprises for me?
ELISE: Not tonight.
HUB: Then I'm going home to get some I'll have somebody drive you.
FRANK: I'll have somebody drive you.
HUB: I'll grab a cab.
FRANK: Elise. I'm really high strung, too.
SAMIR: You let him HIT ME !! You cannot care about me and let such things Next time don't be such a smart ass
ELISE: Next time don't be such a smart ass
SAMIR: Sometimes I hate you just because you are so American. It makes me want to hurt you. I think about fucking you and hurting you.
ELISE: You want to fuck me? Then work with me.
SAMIR: Don't tell me what I have to do.
ELISE: No? Do we really want to have this conversation again? Do we ?
ELISE: I need you to help me. I need you to be strong. As you have always been strong. For both of us. Samir? Look at me.
SAMIR: Some people just cannot live in the camps. For my brother, it was already like dying. The only thing he lives for is movies.
SAMIR: And then some sheik tells him that, to die for Allah is beautiful. If he does this thing, our parents will be taken care of, and he will live on in Paradise with seventy virgins. Seventy. And my brother, he needs to believe it very much, so he straps ten sticks of dynamite to his chest and goes to the movies. And I become a VIP. It is very So who are you afraid of betraying? You know these people. They bomb, they maim. Do they represent the Palestine you want to build? They're using you.
ELISE: So who are you afraid of betraying? You know these people. They bomb, they maim. Do they represent the Palestine you want to build? They're using you.
SAMIR: You are using me, too! Everybody uses the Palestinians! We are the whores of the Middle East! You make reports about our little talks ? What about fucking me?
ELISE: I had to get special permission for
FRANK: Beats cable.
DEVEREAUX: Hi. I understand they call you Hub.
HUB: I know who you are, General.
DEVEREAUX: ( offering his hand ) Bill Devereaux.
HUB: I served in the
DEVEREAUX: 82nd Airborne, I know. Same time I was running the
HUB: 173rd. Put me through school.
DEVEREAUX: God. Duty. Honor. Country. Where on Capitol Hill, Wall Street, or Hollywood would you find one man who's even paused over one of those words in the last ten years?
HUB: What, uh, brings you here, General?. Can I get you some coffee?
DEVEREAUX: You want me to get to the point. The President's concerned. He's worried that have you met him by any No, sir, I haven't. I know reading the papers terrorism's a real concern for him. And your job is to
HUB: No, sir, I haven't. I know reading the papers terrorism's a real concern for him. And your job is to
DEVEREAUX: With all the affection for the man I can tell you he doesn't know fuckall about terrorism, or the Mideast, that I don't put on his cue cards. What he's expert in is his own survival. You get my meaning?
HUB: I didn't guess you came all this way for a cup of coffee.
DEVEREAUX: Agent Hubbard you look like you think I'm here to take your baby With all respect for your expertise, sir. We're on track here.
HUB: With all respect for your expertise, sir. We're on track here.
DEVEREAUX: Which is what I said to the President the Army is not some big green police department. Stick with the man on the ground.
HUB: I appreciate your support.
DEVEREAUX: You're sure you're not chasing your own tail, though?
HUB: What do you know about Sheik Ahmed Bin Talal?
DEVEREAUX: Old news.
HUB: Maybe not. We've received two communications from the bombers to "Release Him."
DEVEREAUX: We can't release him.
HUB: I know our stated policy is not to negotiate with terrorists, but
DEVEREAUX: Hub, we can't release him because we don't have him. We never had him. And besides that, he's dead.
HUB: The CIA says
DEVEREAUX: The CIA? The CIA couldn't predict the fall of the Berlin Wall until bricks were hitting them in the head. The Libyans snatched the Sheik some sectarian Muslim thing I'll explain it next time you have a free week. They killed him. Qaddafi put out disinformation that it was us. Who was your source on this?
HUB: Elise Kraft.
DEVEREAUX: .A woman will never know the Middle East. You're talking about a culture that keeps its women slipcovered. Elise Kraft can't tell a Sheik from the prophylactic of the same name.
HUB: I appreciate the heads up.
ELISE: Hub, we've got Judge Frankel in Oh. Hello, General.
DEVEREAUX: Please, don't let me
ELISE: ( to Hub ) Sorry. That tip on the landlord looks solid. The judge will see us right Sounds like I should get out of your way. We're there if you need us. ( at the door; to Elise ) Your father well, Elise?
DEVEREAUX: Sounds like I should get out of your way. We're there if you need us. Your father well, Elise?
ELISE: As can be expected. How's Maggie?
DEVEREAUX: Top of her game. Well, go get 'em.
ELISE: Making new friends.
HUB: How's your lip ?
ELISE: So. you like to watch ?
HUB: No. Just learning about commitment.
ELISE: It's a full contact sport.
JUDGE FRANKEL: You're telling me that just because some Brooklyn landlord tips you off that he's been paid in cash, you have the right to call in the cavalry ! Hub, as far as I know, paying cash is not yet a crime in this country.
HUB: You're not hearing me. This Khalil was carrying cash for
JUDGE FRANKEL: You've observed him giving cash . No, but
HUB: . No, but
JUDGE FRANKEL: But you have hard evidence linking this apartment to the people that blew up bus 87 ?
HUB: I know we'll turn up trace elements of semtex, chemicals. something.
JUDGE FRANKEL: And when you do, you'll get your What about as a feasibility study?
HUB: What about as a feasibility study?
JUDGE FRANKEL: We enter first, take a look, then fill out the warrant.
HUB: We enter first, take a look, then fill out the warrant.
JUDGE FRANKEL: Tell me the difference between that and breaking-and-entering?
HUB: We're the good guys.
JUDGE FRANKEL: Not good enough.
HUB: What is good enough, Judge? Another bus? A school, maybe. These things come in waves.
JUDGE FRANKEL: Waves mean nothing to me; there's been a wave of violent crime committed by black people in this city for the past twenty years, but if you came to me with a plan to put all black people behind bars as a preventative measure I'd send you packing. There's a price to be paid for living in a free society
HUB: and not in cash I guarantee it.
ELISE: Not two Judges from now, not two HOURS from now, not two MINUTES from now. These guys could split any SECOND and you've lost your best shot at
HUB: Frank's working another warrant
ELISE: You don't understand, they're pros! From the age of twelve they've been dodging people like you, people better than you.
HUB: You mean people like you?
ELISE: no matter how sparkling your record is, no matter how terrified you are to fail
HUB: It's. against. the. law.
ELISE: Just because you went to night school, or filled out the back of a matchbook or whatever you did to get a law degree doesn't make you Sir Thomas More.
HUB: Just because you talk the talk doesn't make you an expert. And just because you read my file doesn't make you an expert on me.
ELISE: You're gonna lose them and they're gonna do another horrible
HUB: You think I want to lose them. Where do you get off talking that If I don't take 'em down properly they'll be on the street two hours from now. I could find dynamite, semtex, plutonium and a book of matches in there and unless I've got the right warrant it's all They've also got a warrant. A warrant from God. They're ready to die! And your quaint laws don't mean shit to these people.
ELISE: They've also got a warrant. A warrant from God. They're ready to die! And your quaint laws don't mean shit to these people.
HUB: My quaint laws? Last I checked you were an American citizen. And these happen to be the only laws we got. Look, I'm just a cop, okay, and I'm real sorry the cold war's over, and you Masters of the Universe got nothing going on over there in Afghanistan or Iraq or wherever but you're just not in the Middle East anymore.
ELISE: Oh, really.?
ELISE: They're discussing how hard it is to find a decent cup of coffee over I make out three voices. What do you have on the infrared?
FRANK: Three sounds right. If we had microwave we'd know for sure. The CIA's got microwave, how come we don't have microwave.
LANDLORD: three of them. All day long they watch tv. And eat pizza. Nothing but pizza, pizza, pizza.
MIKE: You want change, right ?
YOUNG ARAB: You gonna open the door, or what ?
MIKE: You gonna open the door, or what ?
MIKE: Jesus, didn't ya hear crime's down
FBI AGENTS: ( English and Arabic ) FBI ! Lie down on the floor with your hands behind your back !
FRANK: Drop your weapon!
A STILLNESS: As the CORDITE drifts lazily toward the ceiling, Hub calls out from behind the table:
HUB: What about the others? See if we can get a pulse
FRED: Same here.
MIKE: Same here.
ELISE: ( softly )
MIKE: We got semtex, we got detcord, same stuff as the bus, the whole
FRANK: Anybody like anchovies ?
HUB: Goddamn it. GODDAMN IT.
FRANK: What ?
HUB: It didn't fire. They had it rigged to the door and it didn't fire.
HUB: We're too old to be lucky, Frank.
ELISE: ( sips her drink ) My first boyfriend was Palestinian. My father liked to say, they seduce you with their suffering.
ELISE: You ever been over there ? .The courtesy with which they welcome you into their homes. And the people, these incredibly. warm people in this. austere land.
HUB: But you work against them.
ELISE: Only the crazies. I tend to be suspicious of all true believers. Present company included.
HUB: So I'm a fanatic.
ELISE: Let's just say you don't seem the ambivalent type.
HUB: Is that right?
ELISE: So why're are you a fed?
HUB: That's what my nephew keeps asking me. "Why you with The Man, Unc?"
ELISE: .Well? What'd you tell him?
HUB: You read my file. You tell me.
ELISE: Let's see. Catholic school. Captain of this, president of that. Hard work, fair play, make a difference, change the system from within. Rah. Rah. Rah.
HUB: That was in my file?
ELISE: .Tell me I'm wrong.
ELISE: .What ?
HUB: You believe in anything, Elise ?
ELISE: Like what, for instance?
HUB: How about right and wrong?
ELISE: It's easy to choose between right and wrong. What's hard is choosing the wrong that's more right. I just want to make it all. a little. Ignore me. I'm shitfaced.
FRANK: So am I ! Hey, Elise. tell us about being a spook? Ever meet Aldrich Ames? Weren't you at the Bay of Pigs?
ELISE: You were in charge of Waco, right ? Or was that Ruby Ridge?
FRANK: The Shah of Iran, Noriega, I love the way you guys predicted the collapse of the Soviet Union.
ELISE: Yeah, yeah, yeah. And J. Edgar Hoover wore a dress.
ELISE: What do you say, Hub.? Peace?
ELISE: This feels like high school.
HUB: only my prom date wasn't packing a gun.
ELISE: Mine's a 9 mm. How big is yours?
HUB: Two inches. From the ground. So what's the latest from Samir. I want a list of every visa he Not sure he'll do it.
ELISE: Not sure he'll do it.
HUB: I once knew this undercover guy, started to care so much about his
ELISE: Samir's a source. Period.
HUB: Have you considered that he might also be in bed with the other side?
ELISE: Samir in bed with them? That would too much to wish for.
HUB: You're so confident.
ELISE: Only in bed.
FRANK: Whoa. What do they put in these drinks ?
TINA: They got earthquakes in Manhattan?
TRAFFIC: Is snarled and gridlocked at 40th. Finally, they can take it no longer and step out into a chorus of HONKING HORNS.
SMOKE BILLOWS: From the New Victory Theatre where a gala benefit is taking GIRL IN A PRADA GOWN Walks toward CAMERA. She's stunning. From the jeweled clutchbag to the tasteful necklace, everything is perfect, HER RIGHT ARM IS MISSING And now we SEE:
NYPD SERGEANT: fucking bastards waited 'til intermission. Everybody standing around. Oh, Jesus.
NEWS REPORTER: Is it true the governor was attending tonight's benefit ?
HUB: I don't know.
NEWS REPORTER: Who it is I'm speaking to ?
STEWARDESS: You alright?
FBI DIRECTOR: These sects are organized so you need a kill to your credit to get inside. It makes undercover operations impossible. What that leaves us is. we're working on it.
SENATOR WRIGHT: How about who's behind who's behind Libya. Iraq. Iran. Possibly Syria.
CIA DIRECTOR: Libya. Iraq. Iran. Possibly Syria.
SENATOR WRIGHT: All I know is that we must respond.
SENATOR WRIGHT: Find out who it is and bomb the shit out of them.
CONGRESSMAN MARSHALL: Look it keeps escalating. First a bus, then the theatre. What's next?
SENATOR WRIGHT: Anything but leadership.
DEVEREAUX: With all respect, Senator, why don't we just stipulate that the President is a dumb son of a bitch so we can all get down to business.
SENATOR WRIGHT: The Army then. I've seen the contingency plans.
ATTORNEY GENERAL: It's settled legal doctrine, posse comitatus, that the Army not be turned against our own people.
SENATOR WRIGHT: Even if that's what our own people are asking for, three to one?
SENATOR WRIGHT: President Lincoln declared martial law in 1862. He suspended
ATTORNEY GENERAL: which the Supreme Court later found un-constitutional. Ex parte And I've got an election in November. Ex-United States Congressman.
CONGRESSMAN MARSHALL: And I've got an election in November. Ex-United States Congressman.
CONGRESSMAN MARSHALL: Not to mention six points in the We owe it to him to have a consensus.
DEVEREAUX: The Army is a broadsword not a scalpel. You do not want us in an American city.
DEVEREAUX: We only go if the President invokes the War Powers Act.
DEVEREAUX: .Twelve hours after the President gives the word we can be on the ground. One light infantry division of ten thousand seven hundred men. Elements of the Rapid Deployment Force combined with Special Forces Delta. APC's, tanks, helicopters. And of course, the ubiquitous M-16A1 assault rifle, a humble weapon until you see a man carrying one outside your local bowling alley or Seven- Eleven. It will be noisy, it will be scary and it will not be mistaken for a VFW parade.
DEVEREAUX: That means civilian casualties. At a minimum it's a drunk private joyriding in a Hummer who runs down an old lady in Greenpoint. At a maximum. Make no mistake. We will hunt the enemy. We will find the enemy. And we will kill the enemy.
DEVEREAUX: ( looks at them ) And no card-carrying member of the ACLU is more deadset against it. than I am. Which is why I urge you. no, I implore you not to consider this option.
DEVEREAUX: What's that?
ARMY GENERAL: I remind you General Devereaux does not speak for official Army policy. A police function has become accepted as our role in Haiti, in Somalia
HUB: Could I interrupt?
DEVEREAUX: That's Anthony Hubbard, FBI. He's the ASAC on the ground up there. They took out the first cell less than 36 hours after bus 87. I suggest we hear what he has to say
HUB: There is something you probably haven't thought about doing?
HUB: Nothing. Don't over-react. With all respect, gentlemen, I'm just a cop. To you these people may be martyrs, but to me they're criminals. And a criminal is no more than somebody who thinks he's better than everyone else. And he's not better. He only has to be wrong once. And that's where we come in. We run down a tip from a landlord, or we pick up a latent print from a bus. Our phones are ringing off the hook with people from the Arab community wanting to help.
HUB: They love this country and they hate that these criminals are giving them a bad name. With their help and some old-fashioned shoe leather, we'll nail these guys.
DEVEREAUX: Amen to that.
ELISE: We all know the traditional model of a terrorist network. One cell controlling all others. Cut off the head and the body will wither.
ELISE: Unfortunately the old wisdom no longer applies. The new paradigm is like the myth of the Hydra. Each cell exists independent of the other. Cut off one head and another rises up in its place.
ELISE: Bus 87 was the work of Cell #1. Its elimination only activated the work of Cell #2 the theatre gala.
ELISE: We don't know.
HUB: Are they confirmed?
FRANK: Fred, Whitney, we're waiting on who
HUB: Their silence speaks volumes. With Sharon is an OFFICER.
ELISE: This is Colonel Hardwick. Army Anthony Hubbard. Average intelligence. But 'til I hear otherwise this is still my show.
HUB: ( shaking hands ) Anthony Hubbard. Average intelligence. ( clocking him ) But 'til I hear otherwise this is still my show.
COL. HARDWICK: I'm here as an advisor only. I intend to keep a low profile.
HUB: I appreciate that, Colonel.
COL. HARDWICK: I don't mean to be insensitive, but what, exactly, are your capabilities at this point? Your. infrastructure
HUB: You're standing on our infrastructure. Excuse me.
FLOYD: They managed to get a partial VIN# off the van. DMV says it was reported stolen the day before in
HUB: Fiber thinks they've come up with a piece of the shroud. Egyptian cotton.
DANNY: Fiber thinks they've come up with a piece of the shroud. Egyptian cotton.
FRANK: ( grim ) We just got a confirmation on Mike. He was with Fred in the lobby.
HUB: How many does that make it ?
ELISE: I'm. very sorry. about your Frank. This is Sharon. I didn't catch the last name.
HUB: ( giving her nothing ) Frank. This is Sharon. ( to her ) I didn't catch the last name.
ELISE: .Bridger. How ya doin' Frank?
FRANK: Been better.
ELISE: The agency has come up with another list of probables.
ELISE: I think we should circulate them. Hey, this stuff may be good.
HUB: Why was there no warning from Samir?
ELISE: Because he didn't know anything.
FRANK: Says Samir.
ELISE: Says me.
HUB: Maybe I'll ask him.
ELISE: Over my dead body.
HUB: Over six hundred dead bodies.
ELISE: Look, he's one of the good guys. How the fuck can you be so sure?
HUB: How the fuck can you be so sure?
ELISE: Because he helped me recruit the network in Iraq. OKAY?
ELISE: We were part of the operation to destabilize Saddam Hussein. Printing up fake dinars, arming the Kurds
HUB: and financing the Sheik.
ELISE: He's Iraqi. He was going to be our Ayatollah Khomeini
HUB: And help bring down Saddam.
ELISE: I ran the network. Samir was the go- between. He risked his life for us over there.
HUB: So who are they? Give me names, Give me pictures. Not some history lesson.
ELISE: I can't give you pictures because I don't know what they look like. We did everything at arm's length.
HUB: So you got nothing.
ELISE: I've got Samir.
HUB: Has he had any contact with them?
ELISE: How does he do it?
HUB: How does he do it?
ELISE: He can't. They initiate.
HUB: And otherwise.
ELISE: He's waiting.
HUB: He's waiting? What's he waiting for? More bodies? We got lots more buildings in midtown, maybe he's waiting to see how many they can blow up.
ELISE: Look, I know how you must feel
HUB: YOU DON'T KNOW SHIT HOW I FEEL MY FRIENDS ARE DEAD. HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE ARE DEAD. They'll make contact soon.
ELISE: They'll make contact soon.
HUB: How?. Why soon?
THE BATHROOM: ( viciously ) What's the tradecraft, Sharon? Ironsites, visuals? I love all that spy shit. ( still, she says nothing ) I'm gonna haul your boy downtown, strap his ass to a polygraph and ask him all about you. Then I'm gonna send the transcripts to a friend of mine at the Times who just loves to write about the latest CIA link to some political horror show.
HUB: ( viciously ) What's the tradecraft, Sharon? Ironsites, visuals? I love all that spy shit. ( still, she says nothing ) I'm gonna haul your boy downtown, strap his ass to a polygraph and ask him all about you. Then I'm gonna send the transcripts to a friend of mine at the Times who just loves to write about the latest CIA link to some political horror show.
ELISE: You burn him, you lose any chance you ever had.
HUB: It's lose-lose from here on in, who said that?
ELISE: I'm not fucking with you.
HUB: How can you possibly remember who you're fucking?
ELISE: I need. more time. Please. You're hurting me. Please.
HUB'S APARTMENT: Hub sits on his sofa, watching the special report. Spread out before him, the surveillance PHOTOS of Sharon and Samir.
VIDEO CLIPS: A deserted Times Square. Police checking packages of shoppers in front of a department store. Long lines of security at bus stops.
FRANK: If you're on the State Department Terrorist Watch list you cannot get into this country. But Ali Waziri was on the watch list, and he got Did you call the State Department?
HUB: Did you call the State Department?
FRANK: They told me to call INS.
HUB: They told me to call State.
FRANK: They told me to call State.
HUB: Don't you just love government?
THE EXPLOSION: Is only the BUS backfiring. PEDESTRIANS who have thrown themselves to the ground, screaming, now pick themselves up, Laughing. Only Hub and Frank are not laughing.
NEWSCASTER: "As many fled, there were others who stayed behind to pay the price.
VIDEO CLIPS: Jammed freeways; A LOOTED corner deli, its Arab owners, bloodied: POLICE checking backpacks at an elementary school.
VIDEO CLIPS: Angry people, scared people. Hub, being interviewed about the coordinated efforts of law enforcement.
MAYORAL AA: IS TO MAKE THIS CITY SAFE.! And your department
DANNY: My department WHAT, ASSHOLE.?
DISTRICT ATTORNEY: Guys. GUYS.
HUB: Sorry. From now on, we will raise our hands and wait to be called on
INS OFFICIAL: Howard Kaplan. INS. So we've pulled every ethnic visa in the city and traced them to source. Who wants em?
HUB: Danny ?
DANNY: We bring 'me in, have a talk.
INS OFFICIAL: Sixteen hundred, maybe more.
DANNY: Where the hell we gonna put sixteen hundred people?
HUB: I don't think we're there yet. It's also not going to stop these people.
MAYORAL AA: What about protecting the Arab population? There's a lot of anger
HUB: Thank you, sir. And to everyone else for their patience today. These are extremely difficult times London, Paris, we're not the first city to have to deal with this.
HUB: In Tel Aviv, the day after they blew up the market, the market was full. This is New York. We can take it.
DANNY: one of the moms was carrying a piece, wounds the guy as he's planting the device. He kills her and locks them all in. Up there in the corner. by the
DANNY: It's got a timer on it only we don't know how much time is left.
HUB: Closer on the timer.
TECHNICIAN: I'm trying but the angle's wrong.
FRANK: What the fuck is the NYPD doing here?!
DANNY: I don't know. Somebody must have
FRANK: WE'VE RUN DRILLS ON THIS JURISDICTION BULLSHIT SINCE I KNOW ! YOU THINK I QUIT BICKERING AND FIX IT!
DANNY: I KNOW ! YOU THINK I QUIT BICKERING AND FIX IT!
HUB: QUIT BICKERING AND FIX IT!
DANNY: ( on his radio ) NYPD SWAT, this is the FBI. Get that bird the fuck out of there!
AN EXPLOSION: Much like the first one on Bus 99. Hub throws himself over several SCREAMING CHILDREN. And for a moment we don't know if they'll live or die, until: BLUE PAINT covers them all. Agents pour in, followed by Sharon. There, on the floor, holding as many weeping children as he can:
HUB: Who, unable to keep up the facade for a single second more, is also weeping now. Weeping for the victims of the bombings, weeping for the children who've survived, weeping for himself. And for a moment, everyone just. stands there, vaguely embarrassed, and more than a little moved.
ELISE: This just came in.
ELISE: You alright?
HUB: My neck's a little stiff, that's That's not what I meant.
ELISE: ( a long look ) That's not what I meant.
HUB: I know.
HUB: You want a drink?
ELISE: He walks over and opens a bottle of scotch.
ELISE: That was a pretty crazy thing you did today.
HUB: Better days.
ELISE: I wanted to I. just didn't feel like. being alone. tonight.
HUB: Where's Samir?
ELISE: I could call him. Maybe he'd join You'd like that.
HUB: You'd like that.
ELISE: I might. Or I could call Tina.
HUB: They stare at each other.
ELISE: Look, I thought Samir'd be an easy recruit. He wasn't. It was crazy but I did what I had to do. You know as well as I do, running an agent can be very. complicated.
HUB: How about running an FBI agent?
ELISE: You think I'm trying to run you?
HUB: ( looks at her ) .Why else are you here?
ELISE: ( staring right back ) .You know why I'm here.
ELISE: Tell me to leave.
HUB: When they embrace, their ferocity and desperation is something more than comfort and less than love. Sequence omitted from original script.
ELISE: When they embrace, their ferocity and desperation is something more than comfort and less than love. Sequence omitted from original script.
DEVEREAUX: Ahmed Bin Talal. They're still under the impression that we have him.
DEVEREAUX: To refresh your memory, as I told you last time, it was the Libyans I remember perfectly well what you said last time. Do we?
DEVEREAUX: Let me give you some free advice, son. Don't get between me and the President. You might break a nail.
DEVEREAUX: As far as the President is concerned. No, we do not.
DEVEREAUX: ( reading the subtext ) Are you saying the President is prepared to take the necessary I'm saying, the President is prepared to be. Presidential.
HUB: ( on the phone ) Hubbard. What ? .Slow down, slow down
DEVEREAUX: Today, with the invocation of the War Powers Act by the President, I am declaring a state of martial law in this city.
DEVEREAUX: To the best of our knowledge, we are opposed by no more than twenty of the enemy. He is hiding among a population of roughly two million.
DEVEREAUX: Intelligence tells us he is most likely Arab-speaking, between the age of fourteen and thirty. Narrowing the target to fifteen thousand
DEVEREAUX: We can further reduce that number down to those who have been in this country less than six months. Now you have twenty hiding among two
DEVEREAUX: If you are one of these twenty young men, you can hide among a population of similar ethnic background. Unfortunately for you, you can only hide there. And that population, in the classic immigration pattern, is concentrated. Right here in Brooklyn.
DEVEREAUX: We intend to seal off this borough. And then we intend to squeeze it. This is the land of opportunity, gentlemen. The opportunity to turn yourselves in. After sundown tonight any young man fitting the profile I described who has not cooperated will be arrested and detained.
MP: Would you follow me, please. The General is expecting you.
DEVEREAUX: There is historically nothing more corrosive to the morale of an army than policing its own citizens.
DEVEREAUX: But the enemy would be sadly mistaken if they were to doubt our resolve. They are now face to face with the most fearsome killing machine in the history of man. And I intend to use it. And be back on base in time for the play-offs. That is all.
DEVEREAUX: Hub. Good to see you again.
HUB: I can't say the same, sir. Not in that uniform. I thought you were against this.
DEVEREAUX: I am against it. It wasn't my call.
HUB: "I'm only following orders" didn't work at Nuremberg. It may not be your policy but they're your tactics.
DEVEREAUX: Your operation had its chance, Hub, and you couldn't get it done. You're down three touchdowns. Time to bring in the first string.
HUB: Against our own team?
DEVEREAUX: Are you questioning my patriotism?
HUB: I'm questioning your judgement, yes, Hub, I want you to take a moment and reflect on my life as a soldier. I have a dozen tropical diseases I'll never entirely get rid of. I set off metal detectors with the shrapnel in my ass. I have watched men die and I have killed. Now I am serving my President and quite possibly not the best interests of my country, but my profession doesn't afford me the luxury of that distinction. I won't question your patriotism but don't you ever again question my command.
DEVEREAUX: Hub, I want you to take a moment and reflect on my life as a soldier. I have a dozen tropical diseases I'll never entirely get rid of. I set off metal detectors with the shrapnel in my ass. I have watched men die and I have killed. Now I am serving my President and quite possibly not the best interests of my country, but my profession doesn't afford me the luxury of that distinction. I won't question your patriotism but don't you ever again question my command.
HUB: I'm not under your command, General.
DEVEREAUX: Take a good look around, my friend, and tell me that's still true. But we're not shutting you out. In fact, I can't do it without you, Hub. I need men like you. Men willing to put it on the line like you did in that schoolroom. These stars mean I have been putting it on the line for thirty years. and never made a mistake worth remembering. Don't tell me I made a mistake about you.
HUB: ( ironic ) They're not shutting us out. They need men like me.
ELISE: He'll fuck it up, the arrogant prick. You ever met anybody so in love with the sound of his own voice?
HUB: We're putting Samir in play.
ELISE: Now? With all this going on? He's Oh, right, he's high-strung. Only you can manage him. You and the CIA and the DIA and God-knows-who-else you're really working for ! Get back in there, Sharon, Elise, whatever the fuck your name is They'll probably make you a Colonel. if you're not one already.
HUB: Oh, right, he's high-strung. Only you can manage him. You and the CIA and the DIA and God-knows-who-else you're really working for ! Get back in there, Sharon, Elise, whatever the fuck your name is They'll probably make you a Colonel. if you're not one already.
ELISE: All this. is no more in our interest than it is in yours, Hub.
HUB: What, exactly, are your interests, Sharon? You protect Samir, you protect the agency. You're interested in protecting everything but your You have no idea what I do for my No, and I don't want to know. With you or without you we're putting Samir in play. Now.
ELISE: You have no idea what I do for my No, and I don't want to know. With you or without you we're putting Samir in play. Now.
HUB: No, and I don't want to know. With you or without you we're putting Samir in play. Now.
ELISE: One more lamb to the slaughter.
SAMIR: Oh, my God. Oh, my God.
HUB: ( to Sharon ) Does he understand the difference between the FBI and the DEA?
ELISE: Samir. It's fine, he's cool.
SAMIR: Listen to that ! Are you listening? They're killing Arabs out there!
HUB: You can stop it all right now.
SAMIR: What are you talking about ? The army is here. They're setting up interrogation centers right now. They're torturing people in cellars.
HUB: Let's just calm down for a second.
SAMIR: I've got to get out of here. You have to help me
HUB: ( gentling a horse ) We'll take care of you. don't worry. You just have to calm down
SAMIR: Money. I must have more money.
HUB: You got a student visa for Ali Waziri. Because. somebody asked you to Didn't they ?
SAMIR: I. got it myself.
ELISE: Liar !
ELISE: You. tell him. what he wants to Hey, that's enough.
HUB: ( to Sharon ) Hey, that's enough.
ELISE: He knows. He fucking knows.
SAMIR: She's crazy. They're ghosts. Jinn. They'd never trust someone like me.
ELISE: Stop simpering.
SAMIR: I've got a picture of the two of us, do you remember that picture, Samir? I'm going to post that picture in every mosque in Brooklyn. And then I'm gonna send copies to some friends of mine on the West Bank. You've got family there, don't you ?
ELISE: I've got a picture of the two of us, do you remember that picture, Samir? I'm going to post that picture in every mosque in Brooklyn. And then I'm gonna send copies to some friends of mine on the West Bank. You've got family there, don't you ?
ELISE: Let go of me
HUB: Now. Nobody's going to burn you, nobody's going to call anybody Who asked you to get that visa?
HUB: Don't be afraid. I can protect you. There's nothing to be afraid of.
SAMIR: I'm afraid of going to hell.
SAMIR: His name is Tariq Husseini. He runs an auto shop. .on Commerce Street in Red Hook.
HUB: ( hands him a card ) My beeper number. Anybody messes with you, I'm there in twenty minutes.
THE HALLWAY: Where Sharon waits. As they head for the stairs we HEAR:
COL. HARDWICK: In a nearby SURVEILLANCE VEHICLE where, through the newest microwave technology ( the kind the FBI don't yet have ), he has OVERHEARD the entire conversation.
ELISE: You calling Devereaux.
HUB: Didn't get his number. Darn. Floyd, Hub. We need to put something together in a big-ass hurry. Where's Frank ?. Give him a 911.
HUB: ( on the phone ) and find some kind of beat-up car. Well, beat it up yourself if you have to. 896 Commerce St. it's a garage in Red Hook. but ( looks at her ) they're pros.
VAN LOUDSPEAKER: all persons without proper authorization must be off the street until seven a.m. Failure to comply will result in immediate arrest.
HUB: Tariq will go to ground.
ELISE: Tariq will go to ground.
HUB: We can hit him in less than an hour.
ELISE: ( turns to leave ) Hit him hard.
HUB: Where are you going?
ELISE: I've got to stash Samir someplace Go with God.
HUB: FBI ! FBI !
HUB: Now. I'm gonna. reach. into my jacket. and show you. my shield.
YOUNG SOLDIER: Drop your weapon !
YOUNG SOLDIER: Sorry, Sir. Somebody's booby-trapping cars. We're all a little spooked.
HUB: All Units, report in turn. If talking will reveal your position, just key your walkie.
HUB: ( to a mechanic )
MECHANIC: Que Pasa?
HUB: Tariq around?
HUB: Tariq holds up a finger, hold on. Hub sits opposite him.
TARIQ: How can I help you.
HUB: You're Tariq Husseini?
TARIQ: He's out.
HUB: Damn. Do you think you could give him a message?
TARIQ: Of course.
HUB: Tell him the FBI is after him.
TARIQ: You're joking.
HUB: Very. slowly. put your hands on top of the table.
HUB: That wouldn't be a racist epithet, now would it? Stand up.
HUB: Where are the others?
TARIQ: What others?
SHOTGUN AGENT: Do as he says.
HUB: Do as he says.
SHOTGUN AGENT: But when the Mechanic pulls his hand out from his overalls, all he is holding is the pin to a GRENADE.
FREEZE!: But when the Mechanic pulls his hand out from his overalls, all he is holding is the pin to a GRENADE.
THE EXPLOSION: Kills both the FBI agents and their prisoners. Hub throws Tariq to the ground.
DEVEREAUX: Code blue.
DEVEREAUX: Code Red.
ACLU LAWYER: just want to know if my client's name is on the list.
YOUNG LIEUTENANT: Sir, the list will be updated every twelve hours and posted in the
JOURNALISTS: This pass GUARANTEES. You CAN'T .the first FUCKING AMENDMENT!
LIEUTENANT #2: There will be a pool briefing for all accredited journalists at 0700
2,000 DETAINEES: All young men between the ages of sixteen and thirty are milling about. Squatting, smoking, pacing, some laughing, most looking terrified. All spread across:
TINA: 1942, my father was put into the camps at Manzanar. Until the end of the war. Two years. Now he roots for the Dodgers and swears it could never happen again.
FRANK: They got Frankie. My kid's here Frank, slow down
HUB: Frank, slow down
FRANK: ( fighting back tears of rage ) He's only thirteen, for Chrissake
HUB: I'll get him out.
FRANK: They came into my house. My wife told them who I was How many times did I put it on the line, Hub ? How many times
HUB: We're American citizens, twenty years. Ten years in the bureau They knocked her down. and took him. Out of my own house.
FRANK: We're American citizens, twenty years. Ten years in the bureau They knocked her down. and took him. Out of my own house.
HUB: It's wrong, Frank. What can I say to you, but it's. all. terribly. horribly. wrong. Now, come with me.
FRANK: NO! I've got to find him. Besides, this is where I belong. Here. I'm not their sand nigger
DEVEREAUX: And his name is Haddad?
HUB: Frank. Haddad. Junior.
COL. HARDWICK: His father's a Shiite. We're checking him out.
HUB: Check this out, pal. His father's a federal agent for ten years.
COL. HARDWICK: Don't get in my face, Hubbard. I might decide you're an Ethiopian.
HUB: And you're just stupid enough to think that's an insult.
DEVEREAUX: If a mistake's been made we'll fix There is no "if". I'm vouching for this kid. I want him out.
HUB: There is no "if". I'm vouching for this kid. I want him out.
DEVEREAUX: And I said we will look into it.
HUB: You mean, like you're looking into me? Surveilling me? Breaking up my operations? If I'd known I was going to have to do your job for you I would never have left the army.
DEVEREAUX: There's an FBI office in Anchorage, Agent Hubbard. Fuck with me and you'll be learning a hundred and fifty new words for snow.
HUB: Tariq Husseini is my prisoner. I want to see him.
DEVEREAUX: The prisoner is being interrogated.
HUB: I want to see him.
DEVEREAUX: How long have you been at it?
ELISE: Not long enough, apparently.
DEVEREAUX: How much longer, do you think, before he gives up the other cells
HUB: He can't give up the other cells if he doesn't know about them.
DEVEREAUX: He knows.
HUB: ( gestures to Sharon ) What about her briefing? The strategy session she said the cells don't know about each other, that they
DEVEREAUX: How long before he breaks?
ELISE: At this rate. Too long. The theatre was hit nine hours after we took down the first cell.
DEVEREAUX: So what other models do we have
DEVEREAUX: Nobody answers.
DEVEREAUX: What about it, Sharon?
ELISE: Won't work.
DEVEREAUX: Works for the Israelis.
ELISE: Only in conjunction with sleep deprivation. Needs at least thirty- six hours.
DEVEREAUX: We don't have thirty-six hours.
DEVEREAUX: Electric shock?
ELISE: The neurotransmitters just shut down.
DEVEREAUX: COL. HARDWICK
COL. HARDWICK: Palestinian authority is producing good intel using water.
HUB: Are you people insane ?
DEVEREAUX: The time has come for one man to suffer in order to save the lives of How about two men? How about three? How about public executions, that might work.
HUB: How about two men? How about three? How about public executions, that might work.
DEVEREAUX: You're welcome to wait outside.
HUB: General. you've lost men, I've lost men. but what you're doing. It doesn't work in Belfast. It doesn't work in Gaza. And it won't work here. What if. they don't want their leader back at all? You said yourself, we don't even have him. Maybe what they really want is that we herd our children into stadiums. Put soldiers into our streets. Radicalize people who want to think of themselves as Americans. Bend the law, shred the constitution. Because if we torture him and let's call it what it is. You. and I. then the country men like us have sworn to defend. And bled to defend. And died to defend. is And they've won.
DEVEREAUX: ( to Col. Hardwick ) I think we have to soundproof the room before we begin.
DEVEREAUX: Escort him out.
DEVEREAUX: Let's get this over with.
ELISE: He knew nothing.
IN GEORGETOWN: Hub pulls up to a lovely TOWNHOUSE. Parked on the street, an UNMARKED CAR from the Secret Service.
HUB: So we do have the Sheik?
HUB: ( return of serve ) Of course.
WIFE: CHIEF OF STAFF
HUB: What do you mean, let the justice system do its work.
HUB: Why me?
HUB: And what about her?
HUB: You know who. How much is she complicit in all this?
ELISE: I ran an Iraqi network for two years. Samir recruited them from among the Sheik's followers. I trained them in the North. Then we played them back into Baghdad, two, three at a time, hiding them in the mosques.
ELISE: It was gonna be beautiful. And then there was a policy shift
ELISE: The new doctrine was: Iran will be too powerful if Iraq falls apart. And it's not like. we sold them out. Exactly. We just. stopped. helping them. And I wasn't allowed to tell them what was coming down. I was ordered not to tell them. And they got slaughtered.
ELISE: You've got to understand these people. believe. Paradise. Bliss. To us they're just words. But to them. It's very beautiful, actually. And when you look at their lives, the heartbreak. And what do we do? We think, aha, we can take advantage of that. So I quit. I came home. I just can't. do it. anymore.
HUB: But first, you helped them.
ELISE: What do you mean ?
HUB: They were being slaughtered. They needed to get out. But they were on the watch list. So you got them visas. You and Samir.
ELISE: I promised we would take care of them. They were working. for us.
HUB: Doing what, exactly?
ELISE: I don't know what you mean.
HUB: You said you trained them. Tradecraft. Subversion. That's what you said, Only you left something out, didn't you. Didn't you, Sharon? You taught them how to make bombs.
HUB: And now they're here, doing what you taught 'em.
ELISE: And I'm going to have to live with the hell of that for the rest of my be held hostage! This afternoon, join community and religious leaders in a march to protest the mass arrests
MARCH ORGANIZER: ( handing out leaflets ) March on city hall. Today. No fear.
SAMIR: In case you decide to go on walkabout.
ELISE: In case you decide to go on walkabout.
ELISE: How did you make contact?
SAMIR: He is Afghani. Ahhhh. He got word to my uncle at the bath-house. You never met him.
ELISE: But you're sure he'll show up.
SAMIR: ( trembling ) Sharon, they are all dead but the last cell and they are crazy with fear. Just tell me the message and I will pass it on.
ELISE: I need to deliver it in person. Believe me, they'll want to hear what I have to say.
HUB: You watch the game?
FRANK: ( nods yes, then: ) Kannell was really on.
FRANK: ( nods again ) Think they'll make the play-offs?
HUB: How's your boy?
FRANK: He's alright. Thanks for getting him
ELISE: That's Samir.
HUB: ( looks in at Samir ) Green is about right.
ELISE: He's terrified. Then again, so am I.
HUB: You sure he'll go through with it?
ELISE: If he doesn't he knows I'll give him to Devereaux. How's it feel to be on the other end of it?
HUB: I like watching better.
ELISE: This is the endgame, you understand that? If this goes wrong
HUB: Nothing's going wrong.
ELISE: We're the CIA, something always goes
ELISE: I don't suppose there's any way you would trust me to do this on my own? I thought not. Well, in case it gets hairy, remember. the most committed
FRANK: I trust her about as far as I can throw her.
HUB: That far?
SAMIR: This is not the way to the bath-house. You said to get a key from my uncle so that we
ELISE: Shhhhhh. If you'd stop whining you'd feel the surveillance.
COL. HARDWICK: North on Ditmas Avenue.
CORPORAL: Sound garden's ready.
ELISE: ( takes out a pocket- knife ) Raise your arm.
SAMIR: What are you doing?
ELISE: They cannot even dream we are being followed, isn't that what you said?
SPEAKER: " that we will not be made afraid to walk free in this great city. I say, march across the bridge and into the stadium. Demand the release
SAMIR: It is all so. tragic.
ELISE: ( with rising dread ) .They're going to hit the march.
SAMIR: Arab and Jew, side by side. Black and White, Christian and Muslim
COL. HARDWICK: ( into his handset ) Get me Devereaux.
BOROUGH HALL: THE CROWD is getting fired up as the SPEAKER exhorts them. SOLDIERS watch uneasily, not certain how to respond as the crowd begins to CHANT, "No Fear! No fear!" Sequence omitted from original script.
THE APARTMENT: Sharon goes to a closet and takes out some old clothes. She TURNS OFF THE TV. Then:
ELISE: Here. Put this on. We don't want our friends sweating too much while they
COL. HARDWICK: They're getting ready to move. Units 1 and 2, on my signal
COL. HARDWICK: What the
FRANK: Ah, microwave.
TWO WOMEN: In chadors, faces VEILED, descend a back staircase. Only as their faces emerge from the shadows and are caught by a dim bulb do we recognize Sharon and Samir. Sharon unlocks a metal door to reveal THE HIDDEN COURTYARD of a neighboring building. She and Samir hurry through a back alley and out into an adjacent street.
LIEUTENANT #2: ( though a bullhorn ) This is an unlawful gathering. You must disperse. I repeat
PROTEST SPEAKER: Join together! Join hands!
LIEUTENANT #2: ( through a bullhorn ) These soldiers carry live ammunition. This is your final warning.
FRANK: We've got a problem.
FRANK: What the
HUB: It's a shroud.
ELISE: ".sweating too much while they
HUB: First she turns off the tv, then she says it.
FRANK: She knew we were listening.
HUB: The hammam.
A HAMMAM: An Arab bath-house. Rays of sunlight play off the steaming waters. Their footsteps ECHO off the tiled mosaic walls. Sequence omitted from original script.
ELISE: How soon are they coming?
SAMIR: They'll be here.
ELISE: What are you doing ?
NAKED: He steps into the bath. With a sponge he washes his body.
SAMIR: What message do you have for them, I'll tell them when they're here.
ELISE: I'll tell them when they're here.
ELISE: Nobody else is coming, is there?
SAMIR: That's right.
ELISE: You're the last cell.
SAMIR: There will never be a last cell. You should listen to the young men in that stadium. It is just beginning.
THE MARCHERS: Are streaming down the street. Hub and Frank desperately fight their way through a wild, almost "carnival" feel.
ELISE: How could I have missed the play
SAMIR: ( a forgiving gesture ) It was the money. You believe money is power. Belief is power.
ELISE: Just tell me we didn't finance your operation.
SAMIR: ( a sad smile ) The world is a wheel. So. what message do you have for me, Sharon?
ELISE: They're going to release him.
SAMIR: Praise God. When will he be free ?
ELISE: A few months at most. First, they have to bring him to trial, but
SAMIR: ( not looking at her ) But. that's what you want, isn't it? Why you've done all this
ELISE: But. that's what you want, isn't it? Why you've done all this
SAMIR: No. It's not.
SAMIR: I want you to bleed. as we have Samir, the Koran preaches
ELISE: Samir, the Koran preaches
SAMIR: Do not speak to me of the Koran, You take our leader. A holy man. You put him in prison for preaching the word of God. You must learn the consequences of trying to tell the world how to live.
ELISE: ( with rising terror ) But it's over, your point's been made, why spill any more blood? Those poor people out there in the street, they're fucking marching for your ( fastens the last strap on his semtex harness ) And they, too, will become its
SAMIR: ( fastens the last strap on his semtex harness ) And they, too, will become its
SAMIR: Move away from the door.
ELISE: NO !!! Let her go and you'll live
NO !!!: Let her go and you'll live
HUB: Let her go and you'll live
ELISE: DON'T !!!!
DON'T !!!!: ( screaming, panicked )
SAMIR: ( screaming, panicked )
HUB: SAMIR ! YOU WANT TO DIE !!
SAMIR !: YOU WANT TO DIE !!
SAMIR: YOU WANT TO DIE !!
HUB: No way you're going out there.
SAMIR: MOVE AWAY !
ELISE: Shut up.
HUB: Shut up.
ELISE: SHUT UP.
HUB: SHUT UP.
ELISE: SHOOT ME !!! I. CAN'T ! YOU HAVE TO. You. promised.
HUB: I. CAN'T ! YOU HAVE TO. You. promised.
ELISE: YOU HAVE TO. You. promised.
ELISE: ( sobbing ) No !!!
SAMIR: It is God's will.
HUB: If there is a God, he weeps at the crimes we commit in his name.
HUB: ( on radio ) Officer down. OFFICER DOWN !
ELISE: Is. he. dead?
HUB: ( whispers ) .no. regrets.
ELISE: ( whispers ) .no. regrets.
HUB: You. knew.
ELISE: ( the saddest smile ) I. wondered.
FRANK HADDAD: Appears at the top of the steps. Behind him, two PARAMEDICS race down to kneel beside Sharon. Hub is pushed aside as they begin triage but it doesn't look good as suddenly, she begins to convulse.
HUB: Sharon. SHARON
ELISE: . Emma. My name. is Emma.
HUB: what are you? I don't.
FRANK: ( translating ) "I. seek refuge. king of kings."
FRANK: Allah Ahkbar
HUB: And she's gone.
HUB: I want to talk about a free society.
DEVEREAUX: Agent Hubbard, do you want to tell me exactly what you mean detaining Colonel Hardwick and six of my CID staff. Because that strikes me as a very peculiar idea of interagency The last cell has been taken down. It was Samir. I took him out.
HUB: The last cell has been taken down. It was Samir. I took him out.
DEVEREAUX: What makes you so sure he was the last cell?
HUB: Sharon is not trustworthy.
DEVEREAUX: Sharon is not trustworthy.
HUB: Sharon is dead. She gave her life. This is a writ from the US District Court releasing all those being held here without habeus corpus.
DEVEREAUX: My authority supersedes the civilian judiciary under the decree of martial Your authority ends now. It's all What's over.
HUB: Your authority ends now. It's all What's over.
DEVEREAUX: What's over.
HUB: ( looks at him ) They're going to release him.
DEVEREAUX: Release him?
HUB: The Sheik. Clear violation of international law, Congressional oversight statutes, a couple of treaties, the Federal perjury statute, and my favorite, the Logan Act, for conducting your own personal foreign policy. I know the whole story, General.
DEVEREAUX: You don't know shit. Poor suffering Sharon and her poor suffering people. It's called "going native" the most elementary error of an intelligence operative and she made it. She had all of you working for her and she was working for them without even knowing it. And now they're getting exactly what they want, which is the Sheik will be back in the mix. But ten times as strong, because now he's the big man who stood up to the Americans. I did what was necessary. I make no apologies. If you think you're going to be able to use that file against me, you know even less about politics than I imagined.
HUB: General. I'm not in politics. You can have this back. I won't use it.
DEVEREAUX: Because you don't have the balls. Did you expect me to get all weepy with gratitude? You serve your Is there anything else?
HUB: I said I wasn't in politics. I'm not. I'm in law enforcement.
HUB: William Devereaux, you are under arrest for the torture and murder of Tariq Husseini under color of authority, United States Code Title 42, Chapter 21, Subchapter 1, Sections
FRANK: ( after a moment ) Did we win or did we lose ?
THE END: Writers : Lawrence Wright Menno Meyjes Edward Zwick
