BLACK SCREEN: On a black screen, the words ( without capital letters in front of the words ) : and then :
ALLISON: And I want them to look like you.
SAM: Poor kids. End of credits.
SAM: So, if I got to be able to drag you away from computer tomorrow, I'll buy you that ring.
ALLISON: Sure. So, is this gonna be a real wedding ? She moves a bit away from him, and takes a piece of grapes in a plate lying on the floor.
SAM: As opposed to a fake one ?
ALLISON: You know what I mean, Sam. You've already been through the big ceremony with too hundred people.
SAM: That was the fake one. This is the real one. You can have any kind of wedding you want. Underwater. In and out of a steam room in the wild. Horseback. Allison goes back into Sam's arms.
ALLISON: Naked skydiving ?
SAM: Naked skydiving !
ALLISON: It's OK. It's going to have to be a small one, you know. I've not been in New York long enough to know very many Except me.
SAM: Except me.
ALLISON: Oh, you're invited. They laugh.
ALLISON: And my friend Graham upstairs.
SAM: It won't be long before you know half the people in New York. People like you, you know. but I found you first.
ALLISON: You're the only friend I need. You're the best thing that ever happened to me. They start kissing very tenderly. Fade to two seconds of black screen. And then we see Sam and Allison asleep in the bed. They are naked but covered with the The phone rings. Allison wakes up and picks up the phone handset.
ALLISON: Hello ?. Hold on a second. She bends down to take the telephone set.
ALLISON: Sam, it's your ex-wife. She gives the receiver to Sam. Still half-asleep, Sam takes the What ?
SAM: What ?
ALLISON: It's Lisa. Sam puts the receiver to his ear. We hear vaguely Lisa's voice, but not precisely enough to understand the words.
SAM: Yeah ?. No. Because. I'm hanging up now. He puts the handset back on the telephone set, which Allison had put on the bed.
SAM: I'm sorry. She shouldn't call here.
ALLISON: It's where you live. She's entitled. The phone rings again. Allison moves up to pick up the phone.
SAM: Don't. don't answer it. The phone keeps on ringing. Then the answering machine starts with «Hi, it's Allison Jones.» but the rest of the message is covered by Sam and Allison's conversation.
SAM: Why does she do this ?
ALLISON: Talk to her now. You're already up. I'll get that. We hear the beep at the end of Allison's message.
SAM: ALLISON'S APPARTMENT - FRONT HALL - INTERIOR NIGHT Allison grabs a night-robe and presses it on her naked body.
ALLISON: I take it back. She's not entitled.
INTERIOR NIGHT: Allison rings the bell of Graham's apartment. It says 1203 on the GRAHAM'S APARTMENT - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR NIGHT the ceiling. Graham walks along the corridor, zipping his pants. He is bare-chested.
GRAHAM: It's 4 a.m. ! ALLISON ( voice over through the door ) It's me, Graham. Graham opens the door. Allison is just wearing a night-robe, and her face is full of tears.
GRAHAM: Allie ?
ALLISON: I'm sorry. Sam left. I told him to. And. And I can't be alone tonight. so I came up here.
INTERIOR NIGHT: Graham takes Allison by the hand and brings her inside his Graham closes the door behind Allison.
ALLISON: Graham closes the door behind Allison.
GRAHAM: Allie, I let you sleep.
ALLISON: What time is it ?
GRAHAM: About ten.
ALLISON: Oh, my God Allison jumps from the bed in a hurry.
ALLISON: I've got a meeting. It's really important. Graham, still seated on the bed, watches her leave the room.
ALLISON: Hi !
MITCHELL: Hi !
ALLISON: I'm sorry, I'm a little late. They shake hands.
MITCHELL: No, no, it's worth the wait.
ALLISON: Thank you. They sit down. The man takes his glass.
ALLISON: A little later. They have finished their meal. Allison has put her laptop computer on the table and is typing on the keyboard. On the screen of the computer, we see models of woman's dresses changing color and appearance each time Allison presses a key.
ALLISON: You can redefine your product on-screen without going to an expensive designing concept. This is Allison Jones' software, and it's a marketing tool no one else has.
MITCHELL: Who do I get to run it ?
ALLISON: I stay to be the person to speak. That's included in the Ah !. The quote. That's the one thing I haven't seen.
MITCHELL: Ah !. The quote. That's the one thing I haven't seen.
ALLISON: Best for last. She gives him a printed paper.
ALLISON: I think you'll find that's reasonable. as a ballpark.
MITCHELL: Here's where I was thinking of playing. He takes a pen out of his pocket and start writing on the document Allison gave him. Then he hands back the document to her. She reads it and seems surprised.
MITCHELL: It makes sense for you. You see, after our last meeting, I made some phone calls. to your former partner, for one.
ALLISON: No, I wouldn't rely much on what she says. It was not a friendly split. And I did all the work. And. she took all the credit and she didn't like me telling her so.
MITCHELL: Well, I was more interested in the settlement you made. You walked off with the hardware and a rent-controlled apartment. Which means your overhead is minimal, as is your client list. I could improve that if you're as good as you say you are. He points to what he wrote on the document Allison is still But that is the only way to prove it.
MITCHELL: But that is the only way to prove it.
ALLISON: Well, I could go for something. The waiter puts the bill in a small tray on the table.
MITCHELL: No, no, please, don't embarrass yourself. That's my final offer. Now, of course, if you would like to think about Allison takes the bill from the tray, and tears the tab off the I'll get this. You'll see it on my first expense report.
ALLISON: I'll get this. You'll see it on my first expense report.
MITCHELL: I look forward to it. They shake hands.
GRAHAM: What is this ? A song cue ? «You're Nobody Till Somebody Loves You.»
ALLISON: It's just living alone, you know. I thought about buying those books like «Cooking for One». It's just too There are worse things than being on your own, you know.
GRAHAM: There are worse things than being on your own, you know.
ALLISON: Maybe it's all a sign I should go home.
GRAHAM: Come on ! You came here for a reason. Sam has nothing to do with that. No guy does. You think I'd let some guy interfere with my acting career ? Assuming I had a career. or a guy to interfere with it.
ALLISON: You'll find someone again.
GRAHAM: Maybe I will. Why not ? But the point is, if I don't. I I know that. I can do it on my own.
ALLISON: I know that. I can do it on my own.
GRAHAM: I'll just get a room-mate.
ALLISON: I'll just get a room-mate.
GRAHAM: You could always call him, Allie.
ALLISON: Not if I have a room-mate.
COMPUTER SCREEN: An Apple Computer Screen ( certainly Mac OS 7 or even Mac OS 6, since the film was made in 1991/1992 ). The window is titled «Comlink Fax TM». On the window itself we can read :
ATZ: ENTER YOUR AD NOW SWF SEEKS FEMALE TO SHARE APARTMENT IN W70S NON-SMOKER PROFESSIONAL PREFERRED When we first see the computer screen, only «SWF SEEKS FEMALE TO SH» is written. We hear the clicks of the computer keys as the rest of the ad is written. The computer screen fades into a newspaper clip after «PROFESSIONAL PREF» is written.
OK: ENTER YOUR AD NOW SWF SEEKS FEMALE TO SHARE APARTMENT IN W70S NON-SMOKER PROFESSIONAL PREFERRED When we first see the computer screen, only «SWF SEEKS FEMALE TO SH» is written. We hear the clicks of the computer keys as the rest of the ad is written. The computer screen fades into a newspaper clip after «PROFESSIONAL PREF» is written.
NEWSPAPER CLIP: We see a newspaper clip, where Allison's ad has been highlighted with a felt-pen red rectangle. It says : Around this ad are other ads, all about apartment renting or
ALLISON: Oh, yes, that's a promise. Rent-stabilized, so you couldn't come on the lease.
TALKATIVE APPLICANT: I'm an incest survivor, you know. I haven't remembered the instance yet, but I know it's there somewhere. I just have the sense that I survived something. All my therapists think so. She goes out the room in the hall. Allison is shaking her head behind her back.
TALKATIVE APPLICANT: Oh God, a kitchen ! I hate kitchens, cooking, cleaning, anything feminine. I mean, it's probably my mother's fault. While the applicant is going into another room, Allison is writing something on a pad she is holding in her left hand. Underneath the pad is a Polaroid camera, certainly the one we saw the flashlight coming from.
PERFECT APPLICANT: I think this could work. And if you feel the same, please give me a call. Allison takes her picture with her Polaroid camera. Later. Close-up on the pile of application forms. On the top of the pile, the one concerning the woman we just saw, with her picture stapled in the left top corner of the form. Allison is sitting on the couch, looking through the files. She has the file of the last woman in her hand. She stands up and walks to the kitchen.
ALLISON: Oh !. Hi ! We get a full view of the unknown visitor. It's Hedra Carlson. She is wearing a black hat on her long light brown hair. She is carrying a large bag held by a strap across her chest. She looks very sweet and nice.
HEDRA: Hi !. The front door was kind of open. Are you Allison Jones ?
ALLISON: Yes. I'm Allie.
HEDRA: Oh, I'm Hedra Carlson. We spoke on the phone this morning. She looks at Allison's face, where we still can see she's been Are you sure you're okay ?
HEDRA: Are you sure you're okay ?
ALLISON: You know what ? I'm not. Would it be all right if you came back tomorrow ? Hedra starts taking her arm, and then moves away inside the Why don't you just. sit down.
HEDRA: Why don't you just. sit down.
ALLISON: No, I'm fine.
HEDRA: I'll make you some tea.
ALLISON: I just. I don't think I had lunch, that's all. Hedra tries to get some water at the sink, but just gets a strange It's only this one. The one in the bathroom works. Here. She comes to the sink, and takes a wrench lying by the sink.
ALLISON: It's only this one. The one in the bathroom works. Here. She comes to the sink, and takes a wrench lying by the sink.
ALLISON: I use a wrench. She squeezes the water faucet with the wrench. Hedra puts her bag on the floor. Allison keeps on trying to open the faucet with her wrench, but the faucet breaks off and showers both girls. Hedra bends down to shut the main water tap under the sink. The girls are both all wet.
ALLISON: Oh ! Wow !. Wow !. I'm so sorry.
ALLISON: Oh, yes. Allison looks at the papers.
ALLISON: Hedra. that's unusual.
HEDRA: I got terrible nicknames growing up, which I'm not telling Not Hedy ? Like Hedy Lamarr ? That's exotic.
ALLISON: Not Hedy ? Like Hedy Lamarr ? That's exotic.
HEDRA: Well, I wasn't that exotic in grade school. as opposed to now, right ? While Allison is reading the documents Hedra gave her, Hedra feels the clothes hanging by the window.
HEDRA: They're dry. She picks them up, gets them off the hangers, and gives her jacket to Allison
HEDRA: Sam's crumpled picture falls on the floor from a fold in the jacket. Hedra picks it up
ALLISON: Sam's crumpled picture falls on the floor from a fold in the jacket. Hedra picks it up
ALLISON: Oh ! You can just toss that. I was just cleaning up. He's the reason why I'm looking for a new room-mate.
HEDRA: Oh !. She sits down on the sofa next to Allison.
HEDRA: Do you know if there is a chance that you guys patch things up ? As. I do not want to move in and catch you being bound again, and then have things change. It would just be Well, nothing going to change it, except for. maybe that my faucets will work. When can you move in ?
ALLISON: Well, nothing going to change it, except for. maybe that my faucets will work. When can you move in ?
HEDRA: No, really ? She looks very moved by what Allison just said. She takes Allison's hand.
ALLISON: Thank you.
HEDRA: Thank you.
ALLISON: I've got one friend. Graham. He lives just upstairs.
HEDRA: A friend ?
ALLISON: Oh, not like that : he's gay. So, anyway, it's not a real friendly building, but, at least, there's no problem with privacy. 'Cause, I mean, you just close your door.
HEDRA: No problem.
ALLISON: No problem.
HEDRA: I'll leave you alone, you know. I mean, whatever's good for you. They've come to a row of stocking rooms, all protected by partition and doors covered with chicken wire. They look like cages, and that's exactly what the tenants call them. The two girls drop their parcels on the floor. Allison takes a key out of her pocket to open the padlock of her own private «cage».
ALLISON: Wow ! Hedra crosses the corridor. On the opposite side from the row of «cages», a door that says : «Incinerator Room» and stuck on it, a sign that says «Use prohibited by law». By this door, a pile of junks, probably left by a tenant. Hedra picks up an old rusty metal lamp.
HEDRA: Wow ! Hedra crosses the corridor. On the opposite side from the row of «cages», a door that says : «Incinerator Room» and stuck on it, a sign that says «Use prohibited by law». By this door, a pile of junks, probably left by a tenant. Hedra picks up an old rusty metal lamp.
HEDRA: Hey, look, Allie, this could be good, huh. A few moments later. Allison has resumed her tour of the basement, walking along the corridors. Hedra is carrying the metal lamp she found. They pass by the Laundry Room, where we've seen Allison earlier chatting with Graham. Inside, a lady is working with her laundry on a table.
ALLISON: Laundry room. Another corridor.
ALLISON: I don't go in there at night. It's a bit creepy. It's okay in the day, but, still, lock yourself in. Hedra looks at a key she is holding.
HEDRA: This one ?
ALLISON: No, that's mail key. They've come to the elevator. An old machinery, enclosed in a chicken wire cage, is working with a loud noise. Allison presses the switch of the elevator
HEDRA: This is creepy.
ALLISON: Oh, it's not bad, it's just kind of old. The elevator door slides into the wall, and the two girls get in the cabin. Allison wants to close the inner door of the cabin, but it does not want to slide back into closed position.
ALLISON: Sometimes this gets stuck and you have to use this She takes a screwdriver hanging on a chain in the cabin. With it, she works on the door lock, and succeeds in moving it. While she rolls the inner telescopic door shut, she discovers that another tenant has come into the cabin behind their back. He doesn't look very friendly, with his bow-tie and his small mustache. He is holding a newspaper.
ALLISON: Excuse me. When the inner door is completely shut, the outer door slides automatically into shut position.
THE TENANT: Which floor ?
ALLISON: The tenant presses a button on the switchboard by the door.
HEDRA: Fourteen, please. The tenant presses another button. Hedra plays with her keys and smiles to Allison.
ALLISON: Hedra is kneeling by the sink, looking at the cupboard underneath the sink. She stands up with an oval metal dish.
HEDRA: Look what I found.
HEDRA: I'm not sure. Hold on, I'll check. Sitting on the floor, Allison is painting the old lamp Hedra has found in the basement. An electric fan is working next to her. Hedra puts the dress she is holding on the receiver, and whispers.
HEDRA: Allie, it's Sam. Allison shakes her head «No».
HEDRA: Where do you guys learn to dress like that ? I mean, it's just so New York.
ALLISON: I think you look very comfortable.
HEDRA: Yeah, I never know what looks good.
ALLISON: Oh !. I think that looks nice
HEDRA: Yes ?
ALLISON: But I found this. She gives her a red dress on a hanger, which she was holding out of our view.
HEDRA: Oh !
ALLISON: I think you'd look great with that.
HEDRA: Hedra takes the dress and looks at it.
HEDRA: Hey ! What do you think ?
ALLISON: I think you should take them. Allison takes off the shoes she was trying on.
HEDRA: Oh God, you like them ? We now see both girls' faces. Hedra is taking off the shoes she was wearing.
ALLISON: Well, I think they go great with that dress.
HEDRA: You take them She gives her shoes to Allison.
ALLISON: I'll just borrow them when I want to.
HEDRA: I'll just borrow them when I want to.
ALLISON: God! I didn't know you were home. I was. Lying on the bed, there are a shoebox with a rubber band around it, a key on a keyring, and a piece of paper. Apparently, Allison has not noticed them. Quickly, Hedra throw the bath-towel, she is holding, on those items, for Allison not to notice them.
ALLISON: I was. I was. God, I'm sorry. You haven't even been here two weeks and I'm already in your room. ( ironically ) I was just about to go through your drawers ! Hedra laughs. Allison puts the earrings, she was still holding, back on the table.
HEDRA: That smells nice on you.
ALLISON: Oh, I hope you don't mind. I just. I always wanted to try Oh God, no. anything you want. you want. She takes her night-robe off. Allison seems embarrassed to see her naked. She turns her eyes away from her.
HEDRA: Oh God, no. anything you want. you want. She takes her night-robe off. Allison seems embarrassed to see her naked. She turns her eyes away from her.
HEDRA: Go ahead. Share and share alike.
ALLISON: Well. I don't really know about that. I'm an only child. Do you have. a big family ? Hedra puts her nightdress on.
HEDRA: Hu-uh. There's just me. She sits on her bed.
HEDRA: I am. Well, I was supposed to be a twin, but she was Oh, that's so sad.
ALLISON: Oh, that's so sad.
HEDRA: I grew up like a part of me was missing. She turns around sees the new lampshade.
HEDRA: Allie ! God ! She stands up to have a better look at the lampshade.
HEDRA: It's beautiful. Thank you. What do I owe you ? She walks toward the little table.
ALLISON: Oh. nothing. It's just a little housewarming. It's like Hedra picks up the earrings from the table, and gives them to Oh no no.
ALLISON: Oh no no.
HEDRA: Shhh !. She puts the earrings on Allison's ears.
HEDRA: They look beautiful on you.
ALLISON: But I can't take these.
HEDRA: It's housewarming. Allison looks at herself in the mirror.
ALLISON: Thanks, they're great. The phone rings.
ALLISON: Excuse me. She goes out of the room. While going out, she bumps into Hedra.
HEDRA: Oops !
ALLISON: Hello ?. It's Sam. We only hear a few words of what he says. SAM ( voice over on the phone ) . Talk to me.
ALLISON: No, Sam.
ALLISON: No, it's not a good time.
ALLISON: No, there's nothing to talk about anyway. Sam, there's somebody here right now.
ALLISON: All right ?. Okay. Bye. Why don't we order some Chinese ?
HEDRA: Why don't we order some Chinese ?
ANSWERING MACHINE: Hi, this is Allison Jones. Please leave a message. Thank
HEDRA: Buddy !
HEDRA: Oh, yes, you're a good clean boy. You're going to cheer her up, are you ? Hmm ? You're going to cheer her up. So she'll let you stay. While rinsing the puppy, she hugs and kisses it. She hears the front door opening and turns her head around. She says «Shhh !» to the puppy, and whispers some other incomprehensible words to it, then puts it back in the bathtub. Close-up of a paper lying near the sink over Hedra's key-ring. The paper is a bill from a shop called «Pet Express», in New-York. It was paid in cash, and the date is 8/16. It reads :
ALLISON: Yoo-hoo ! She closes the front door. Through the open bathroom door, we see Hedra going from the waste-basket to the bathtub. She takes a towel and wraps it around the puppy, still in the tub. Allison puts her keys on the shelf by the door, puts her handbag on the floor, and presses a button on the answering machine. A beep and then :
ANSWERING MACHINE: No messages. Behind Allison, we see Hedra coming out the bathroom carrying the puppy wrapped in the towel. Allison turns around, sees Hedra with the puppy and stops in her tracks. She doesn't seem very happy, almost angry in fact.
HEDRA: I know I shouldn't have, but they were just giving him away. in the market. But they said I could bring him back Well, I hope they meant it. Hedra sits down on the floor.
ALLISON: Well, I hope they meant it. Hedra sits down on the floor.
HEDRA: Well. his name's Buddy. I had a dog named Buddy when I was little. She gives a kiss to the puppy. She then looks up at Allison's face, which doesn't seem very friendly.
HEDRA: Tomorrow, okay. I promise. Allison walks away taking off her raincoat.
ALLISON: Oh ! Come on.
ALLISON: Okay. Come on. Shhh ! Through the open kitchen door, we see, across the corridor, Hedra's bedroom door closing itself.
HEDRA: You're working so hard. Close-up on the screens of the computers. They show women dresses ALLISON ( voice over ) Myerson better refers some clients to me. HEDRA ( voice over ) He will, you're the best.
ALLISON: God, Hedy, thanks. I never would've got it done without Hedra is playing with a portable battery-powered fan. She puts it down to play with the puppy.
HEDRA: I love helping. She tries to move the puppy, who wants to move the other way.
HEDRA: Wait. Wait. Allison takes her Polaroid camera to take a shot of the three of Oh yeah ! Family portrait.
HEDRA: Oh yeah ! Family portrait.
ALLISON: Ready ?
HEDRA: Allison takes the snapshot. Later in the night. There is a black and white movie on the TV.
GRAHAM: Ready to kill her yet ?
ALLISON: Who, Hedy ?
GRAHAM: Hm-mm !
ALLISON: No, no, it's a lot of fun having a girlfriend again.
GRAHAM: I can tell. I was worried for a while that you were so down. You were starting to look like a Kennedy wife.
ALLISON: You were great, Graham. I just had to spend some time with her. She needed a lot of help moving in. Plus, I've been working like crazy. I promised I'm not avoiding you. They enter the elevator. Two ladies are coming out. Allison has to use the screwdriver to close the inner door of the cabin.
GRAHAM: Oh, I've got you cornered now. I've been meaning to come down and see you. I was on my way to ask you something.
GRAHAM: Will you cat sit again ? I have to go to Boston this week- end for my cousin's wedding.
ALLISON: Fine. Sure, I'll watch Carmen. He takes a keyring out of his pocket.
GRAHAM: Hey, I've made you a set. You know which one to try. And ignore the litter box this time, I do. She laughs.
ALLISON: It's so cruel. We'll be fine.
GRAHAM: You know, I think I saw her the other day, your room-mate. You were leaving the building. Then I thought it was you. Your backpack. This jacket. I chased her down. But it was someone else. Someone very nervous.
ALLISON: Oh !. That's Hedy. I really freaked her out about people knowing she's living in the building. I would've had you down to meet her. but she's shy. The elevator stops.
ALLISON: The outer door opens. Allison bends down to pick up her shopping bags. She opens the inner door and takes the keys Graham is giving
ALLISON: Friday ?
GRAHAM: That'll be great. I'll make dinner when I get back. Allison closes the inner door.
INTERIOR DAY: Reverse angle shot of Allison closing the elevator inner door. The outer door closes automatically. Allison walks along the hall toward her apartment.
ALLISON: Hey, I thought you'd be at work.
HEDRA: Don't tell me we have the same belt. Hedra looks down at her belt. She seems embarrassed by something.
ALLISON: Don't tell me we have the same belt. Hedra looks down at her belt. She seems embarrassed by something.
HEDRA: Well. Yeah . Sorry. Listen, I have to talk to you.
ALLISON: You have to see these. Look, cookies for dogs.
HEDRA: Oh, they're great.
ALLISON: I had to get them. They're so great.
HEDRA: Can I just talk to you for a second.
ALLISON: Buddy ! Sam enters from the living room with the puppy in his arms.
HEDRA: I tried to let you know. Sam puts the puppy on the floor.
ALLISON: What are you doing here ? Hedy !
SAM: But no, don't blame Hedy. It's not her fault, okay. Hedra goes out of the hall into the living room.
SAM: I kind of forced my way in here. I had to see you. Hedra comes back in the hall.
HEDRA: I've got to get out of here now. Unless you need me. She looks back and forth to Allison and Sam, and gets just a «No» head-shake as an answer from Allison.
HEDRA: Hedra goes out of the apartment and closes the door behind her.
ALLISON: Why can't you just leave me alone ? Allison takes her shopping bags and goes into the kitchen.
SAM: You've got to talk to me, baby. You just can't pretend I don't exist.
ALLISON: Easier that way, Okay ? Is that so hard to try to make it easier on me ?
SAM: But people screw up. People do something wrong. And I was wrong, I admit it. And you just. You cut me off. You don't take my calls. You don't answer my letters.
ALLISON: Wait a minute. You lied to me ! If she hadn't called, would I have found out ? I think that's really scary, okay ? Please, if you want to be nice, just stay away.
SAM: Okay. You know, I know that there is something that you just can put back together. I was hoping that this wasn't one of them.
ALLISON: Well, I guess it is. And. I didn't get any letter. So, I wasn't trying to punish you by not answering it. I just didn't get it.
SAM: Well, I sent it with the keys.
ALLISON: Well, I didn't get those, either. What did it say ?
SAM: Forget the letter. I love you. I can't exist without you. I have no excuse for what I did, Allie. You have to give me a second chance. She goes into his arms. He hugs her. She start crying.
ALLISON: You really hurt me, Sam.
SAM: Shhh !
INTERIOR DAY: Hedra is standing by the window, with a knee on the heater. She seems very pensive. An old lady comes out of the elevator, and looks at Hedra. Hedra turns her head toward the lady. She picks up her bag, which was sitting on the heater beside her, and moves away from the window. She goes to the elevator and presses the call button.
HEDRA: Oh, yes, towards the front, against the wall.
HEDRA: Hi, Allie, it's me. I'm just calling to see if you're okay.
SAM: Say. Next month, that would give her enough time.
ALLISON: I don't know. Just got herself on hands. Haste wouldn't do. I'm sure she'll understand. They enter the hotel.
HOTEL CLERK: Good evening, Mister Rawson.
HEDRA: Hey ! It's not for you ! The puppy goes away yapping. Hedra has a mean look on her face. JAMES STEWART ( voice over from the TV set ) Would you like it to go on for always ? FEMALE CHARACTER IN THE MOVIE ( voice over from the TV set ) How does anything go on for always ? JAMES STEWART ( voice over from the TV set ) Well, one likes to think some things do. Hedra keeps on eating her ice-cream, looking absently at the TV, with the same mean look on her face.
HEDRA: Where the hell have you been ? Allison gasps at that somber voice in the dark. Hedra switches the bed-light on. She is sitting on Allison's bed, with her legs covered by the sheet, and the puppy on her laps. She is wearing her night-dress, with a pink sweater on her shoulders.
ALLISON: God, Hedy, what are you doing in my room ?
HEDRA: I've been waiting since six o'clock last night to hear from you. I'm worried sick. Buddy was crying. I thought I might as well come in here, so it calm down.
ALLISON: Sorry, I guess I just didn't think.
HEDRA: No, you didn't. There's such a thing as a phone, you know. This is New York. Things happen.
ALLISON: Okay, okay, I'm sorry. It was thoughtless, really. You're making me feel like I'm sixteen years old here. She goes to the bed where Hedra is stroking absently the puppy. She kneels down at the bedside.
ALLISON: Hey, are you okay ?
HEDRA: Yeah. Yeah. Just. forget it. So, I guess you've patched things up with Sam, huh ?
ALLISON: Yeah. Yeah, I made him suffer. Hedra looks down at Allison hand stroking the puppy.
HEDRA: Is that an engagement ring ? Allison stands up.
ALLISON: Hedra sighs, and moves the sheet away to get out of the bed.
HEDRA: Beautiful ring.
ALLISON: Hedra walks away from the bed. She gives a last look at Allison's She walks to the door.
HEDRA: Really great. She walks to the door.
HEDRA: I'm sure you'll be very happy . you'll be very happy and I'll be alone.
ALLISON: No, no, wait a little. You'll find someone, Hedy. I mean, God, if I can. Hedra is standing in the doorway and points to the mirror.
HEDRA: Why don't you look in the mirror ?. Huh ? Look ! She comes back into the bedroom. She forces Allison to look at both of them in the mirror.
HEDRA: Look ! You're in a different league. I know that. You have this great personality. You have this great style. You're running your own business. You're always going to find someone. You'd have to be stupid to think that you She puts her head in her hand.
HEDRA: Well, I guess you. you and Sam want to be together. So. I have to move out, right ?. No ?
ALLISON: Well, anyway, Sam's going to keep his place for a while. I know you just spent a lot on furniture.
HEDRA: Yeah, your timing is great, Allie, it's really great ! You promised me this wouldn't happen. Exactly what.
ALLISON: Nothing's happened, Hedy, come on. Look, I'll talk to Sam. Well. Well, maybe we'll move, I don't know. Maybe, we'll find some place like this, or. I don't know. But, we'll see, we'll figure something out. Okay ?
ALLISON: Let's set up a demo, to show them something. Something special, something different, you know. Maybe at night, you know. Open bar, open minds. That's «F» night. Mitchell walks to the desk next to Barbara's one, where he starts flipping the cards of a Rolodex.
MITCHELL: I'll set it up, I'll set it up. Maybe I. I'll call you tonight after I check on some things.
ALLISON: He takes a card from the Rolodex.
MITCHELL: «8796, Knox». Knox ? What's this Knox ?
ALLISON: Oh no, that's Graham Knox. He is my upstair neighbor. That was just for last night. Oh, he's the first one.
MITCHELL: Well, I've got to admit, I'm very impressed.
ALLISON: Well, maybe you start spreading the word.
MITCHELL: You know, I can see I'm not going to be able to afford you any more. He puts his hand on Allison's shoulder and walks away. Allison smiles and then looks at what Barbara is doing.
ALLISON: Great. Press «enter». That's it.
ALLISON: You thirsty ?
SAM: She starts moving out of the bed.
ALLISON: I'll be right back, okay. She stands up and puts a light night-gown on. She walks out of the ALLISON'S APARTMENT - BATHROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT Allison is filling a tooth glass from the tap of the sink. Suddenly we hear voices. Allison seems surprised. We don't understand the words, but we recognize Sam's voice, and then Hedra's light laugh. Allison slowly walks out, carrying her glass.
HEDRA: Well, you'd know more about that than I would. She laughs.
HEDRA: Oh, hi ! SAM ( voice over from the bed ) Allie, do you want a sip ? Allison shows her own glass in her hand without answering. Hedra looks at Sam and then at Allison. She seems slightly Oh well. Well I think I'll turn in. Goodnight, Allie. She kisses Allison's cheek.
HEDRA: Oh well. Well I think I'll turn in. Goodnight, Allie. She kisses Allison's cheek.
HEDRA: Goodnight, Sam. She walks away toward her bedroom. Sam turns himself around in the bed to lie on his back. Before closing the door, Allison switches the lights off. In a corner of the room, the puppy is wide awake and is sitting in his basket. Allison lies down on the bed. She hasn't taken her night gown off. Close up shot on Allison's face lying on her back on the bed. She seems worried. Reverse angle shot of the fan spinning on the ceiling. Later. Allison is asleep, lying on her side. She is still wearing her night-gown. Her hand is moving on the sheet, and apparently does not find what it was looking for, because Allison suddenly sits up on the bed. We see Sam sleeping and lying on his back, half-covered by the sheet. Allison looks at him and sighs. We hear some strange noises. Allison gets up and off the bed. We see her naked feet walking past the puppy's basket. Allison opens the door. The puppy leaves his basket and follows her.
SAM: Right, just a minute. Hedra is coming out of the kitchen with a frying pan. She is just wearing her night gown. She is stirring some scrambled eggs in the They'll get cold. She eats a piece of crispy bacon out of the pan.
HEDRA: They'll get cold. She eats a piece of crispy bacon out of the pan.
SAM: All right, all right. Sam climbs out of the balcony. A wider shot shows Hedra back in the kitchen, cooking something on the stove. Sam slides the window down, and then walks across the room and into the kitchen. The puppy gets out of its basket and follows him.
SAM: Hey !
HEDRA: Hi !
ALLISON: We going ? She walks to the sink, and picks up an orange. Sam gives her a kiss on the cheek. She turns her head and doesn't respond to the Hedra comes toward them with a plate in her hand. She gives the plate to Allison.
HEDRA: Scrambled or fried ? Allison doesn't take the plate and shows her the orange. She seems quite upset. ALLISON ( whispering ) This is fine. She gets out of the kitchen. Sam turns his head towards Hedra and then follows Allison. Hedra walks a couple of steps towards the open door and listen to the conversation going on in the living room SAM ( voice over ) Allie, sweetheart, this isn't all that urgent. You know, if you don't want to do this apartment thing today, it can wait till I get back.
SAM: Why don't we get away together ? Drive to Box Camp ? Reverse angle shot on Hedra bending down and slapping her thigh.
HEDRA: Buddy, come here, boy. She takes a piece of bacon out of the plate and shows it to the Reverse angle shot on Allison and Sam. The puppy doesn't respond at all to Hedra's call and food. HEDRA ( voice over ) Come on, three's a crowd, sweetie.
ALLISON: All right, Hedy, he's fine. ( in a much lower voice, for Sam's ears only ) Poor guy's doesn't who's who anymore. Reverse angle shot on Hedra standing up and finishing her plate. Then reverse angle shot again on Allison and Sam.
SAM: Well, wouldn't you like to take a day off. Renting a No, I'm okay. I'm fine. I just didn't get a very good sleep, that's all. Nightmares. Okay ? Sam gives her a very tender kiss, which she gives him back. Reverse angle shot on Hedra looking very angry. She goes back into the kitchen and puts her plate down. She then walks into the living room, looking very casual.
ALLISON: No, I'm okay. I'm fine. I just didn't get a very good sleep, that's all. Nightmares. Okay ? Sam gives her a very tender kiss, which she gives him back. Reverse angle shot on Hedra looking very angry. She goes back into the kitchen and puts her plate down. She then walks into the living room, looking very casual.
HEDRA: You've got a good day for it if it doesn't get too hot. She gives a light tap on Sam's back when she walks behind him. She takes a food plate off Allison's desk, and starts walking away towards the kitchen with the plate.
ALLISON: You don't have to do that, Hedy. You're doing enough Oh, I don't mind. It's clean when you can't tell I'm here. She enters the kitchen to put the plate down. She then comes back into the living room.
HEDRA: Oh, I don't mind. It's clean when you can't tell I'm here. She enters the kitchen to put the plate down. She then comes back into the living room.
HEDRA: Oh. Hey, if the eggs were okay, maybe you guys can trust me with dinner. Do you know when you'll be back ?
ALLISON: Oh, no, it's kind of an anniversary tonight. So I think we'll be eating out.
HEDRA: Really ? Well, that's great. Well, good luck. We can see, by her expression, that Hedra is not very happy about what she just heard, but she keeps a smiling face. Sam and Allison walks out of the room. Hedra wrinkles the front of her night gown with her nervous hands. She walks slowly toward the hall.
HEDRA: Sam closes the door behind them. The puppy remains behind the door, whining. Hedra sits down on the floor, leaning on the wall near the door of the living room.
HEDRA: Buddy, come here. She taps her hand on the floor.
HEDRA: Come here, sweetie. The puppy doesn't move away from the front door, and keeps on yapping and crying.
HEDRA: I know. I know. She seems very nervous. The dog keeps on yapping at the door.
HEDRA: Buddy, come ! She taps her hand on the floor in a more and more nervous way. HEDRA ( angry voice ) Come ! The dog doesn't move from the door, and keeps on yapping. HEDRA ( calmer voice ) AN EMPTY APARTMENT - INTERIOR DAY A large room in a typical old New-York apartment. Large windows going almost to the ceiling. Through the windows we see roofs with water tanks on them. The room is empty, save for a ladder and a few tools. The real estate agent is standing with some papers in his hand. Sam and Allison are coming towards him from the other side of the They walk away toward the exit of the apartment. The agent remains standing on the same spot.
SAM: But this is half the size for twice the price from your It's easier this way, believe me. And this could be nice. They walk away toward the exit of the apartment. The agent remains standing on the same spot.
ALLISON: It's easier this way, believe me. And this could be nice. They walk away toward the exit of the apartment. The agent remains standing on the same spot.
SAM: Can you imagine going from The Victoria to this.
SAM: Do you think we can smoke her out ?
ALLISON: This is such a mess. I just can't do it right now. I think I'm her only friend. They turn the corner of the street, and we hear a scream. Sam and Allison both lift their heads.
INTERIOR DAY: Allison and Sam are running toward Allison's apartment door. Allison opens it.
HEDRA: What ? Hedra seems genuinely surprised. She still has the earphones of her Walkman around her neck. ALLISON ( crying ) You left the window open. How could you do that ?
HEDRA: But I thought we could leave it open. I know you fixed it this morning. Sam is still on the balcony, looking at the balustrade.
SAM: I thought I did.
HEDRA: It's me. I interrupted you when I called you in for breakfast. And Allie, it's my fault. She starts crying. Allison rushes out the room.
HEDRA: Allie ! SAM ( voice over ) Allie ! Sam runs out of the room after Allison.
SAM: Allie ! Hedra walks to the balcony and slowly slides the window down. Fade out.
SAM: Thanks, that pill helped.
HEDRA: Are you still going on that trip tomorrow ?
SAM: Well, she wants me to.
HEDRA: If I'd just let you finish your work this morning. We can hear repressed tears in her voice. Then she starts crying for real.
SAM: Listen, if she blames anybody, she blames me, huh ? Sam kneels down.
SAM: Shh ! Sam takes her in his arms where she goes on crying. He slowly stands up, still holding her in his arms. He leads her to her ALLISON'S APARTMENT - FRONT HALL - INTERIOR NIGHT Outside Hedra's room. Sam is in the doorway. Hedra moves slightly away from him and then hugs him even stronger. Gently, he pushes her away from him. They almost kiss on the mouth, but Sam takes her arms off his neck and goes out of her room, where she stays. He closes the door behind him, and she holds his hand on the doorknob. Then she moves her hand away and the door closes. We hear her sobbing behind the closed door.
ALLISON: Hello ?. Hi, Mitch. She raises her head.
ALLISON: What ? She looks at the clock.
ALLISON: God ! I know. I'm. No, I'm just. I'm just running a little late. She picks up the pill bottle on the night table and looks at it.
ALLISON: I didn't forget. I dunno. Just hold them till five, okay ? Thanks. She puts the phone down. She gets up and goes into the dressing room. She starts looking for a dress. She rapidly goes out.
MITCHELL: .but you know that, don't you ? A large section of the main hall of Fontana Fashions Office has been transformed into a reception room. Dresses are hanging on racks. On a round table with a white tablecloth, many half-empty glasses of Champagne, two silver bucket with Champagne bottles in them, plates of «petit fours», and a lot of flowers. Mitchell and Allison are both standing in front of a large TV screen, set on a hight stand, and showing the «Fontana Fashions» computer files. Allison, wearing a very smart black short sleeveless dress, puts a video cassette back in its box.
ALLISON: Thank you. Mitchell goes to the table, puts his glass down, and fill another glass with Champagne.
MITCHELL: And here, I thought all the guys would resist you. As if anyone ever could. He gives the glass to Allison, who doesn't take it.
ALLISON: Oh no, here, I've got to go. I'm just cleaning a bit.
MITCHELL: Hold it. Hold it. Not so fast. Now everybody under me knows more than I do. I hate that.
ALLISON: Well. Block up some time for me next week. Then. it's just a little late tonight. Mitchell kneels down on the floor.
MITCHELL: Oh, please, please, just a taste. He puts the glass on the top of his head
MITCHELL: Something simple. Right now. He gives the glass to Allison, who takes it.
ALLISON: Okay. Something simple. She walks to a table with an Apple computer on it, puts her glass on the table, and sits down. Mitchell comes behind her, drinking his glass, which he then puts on the table. He bends down behind Allison, who starts typing on the keyboard.
ALLISON: All right. You know, this is just the Mickey-Mouse stuff, but it does come in handy. Close-up on the computer screen. The «Fontana Fashions» file is on. We see the outline of a model, then a small window appears on the model. It says «Are you sure you want to quit ?» and below two choices, «Cancel» or «OK». Allison chooses «OK». «Fontana Fashions» file disappears, replaced by another window that says «Search by vendor», and in the bottom of the window, «Enter Vendor Name:», with an empty box underneath. MITCHELL ( voice over ) Back to Allison typing. Mitchell's head is just behind hers.
ALLISON: Okay. Enter the vendor's name.
MITCHELL: Oh !. Vendor. He bends over Allison to type on the keyboard, encircling her with his right arm.
MITCHELL: J-o-n-e-s. All..i.son. Allison seems a bit embarrassed by this close physical contact.
ALLISON: Very good. Close-up on the screen, where a new window titled «Acc. Payable - Summary». In the window, a data chart that reads as follows : COMPANY: Concept Software CONTACT: Jones, Allison tel:212-555-9814 contract price: $16,000.00 payments to date: 2 balance outstanding: 4,500.00 last paymt. sent: 1-Aug-91 next paymt. due: 15-Aug-91 PAYMENT PAST DUE no more records ALLISON ( voice over ) See, here you go. «Contract price», «Payments to date», «Balance outstanding». Back to Allison and Mitchell looking at the screen
MITCHELL: Ho-ho. According to this, we should have paid you last That's all right. Barbara will handle that.
ALLISON: That's all right. Barbara will handle that.
MITCHELL: Not till I give her the word. Allison turns to him, and seems not to like his strange smile.
ALLISON: Well, I hope you're satisfied with what I've done.
MITCHELL: So far. He walks away from her and goes to the Champagne table.
ALLISON: But this is it. I mean, there ain't much more. Just maybe a little fine tuning, that's it. I have some free time now, if you want us to set up some meeting with your colleagues. Using a napkin, he is drying a bottle of Champagne he just got out of its bucket.
MITCHELL: I was thinking that maybe I want to keep you all to myself. He throws the napkin on the floor, and comes back toward Allison with the bottle of Champagne. He puts the bottom of the bottle on Allison's bare shoulders. She shivers.
MITCHELL: Top her ?
ALLISON: What are you doing ? He puts his other hand on her shoulder. Then he puts the bottle on the table, and starts massaging her shoulders.
MITCHELL: That's just that you're so tight.
ALLISON: Mitch, please, don't. That's enough. He grabs her from behind and squeezes her in his arms.
ALLISON: Hey, look. He kisses her neck.
MITCHELL: Hey, look. He kisses her neck.
MITCHELL: I've been a good boy, haven't I ? And you've been a good girl. We have nothing to prove any more. He keeps on kissing her neck, and puts his hand inside her dress to reach her breast. Allison seems to be on the verge of tears.
MITCHELL: This is your last chance to play before you're an old married lady.
ALLISON: Let me turn around, okay ? She has a strange smile on her lips.
MITCHELL: That's better. That's better. He stands up.
MITCHELL: Just a second. A second. While she slowly turns around on her swivel seat, he starts unzipping his pants, and lets them fall on his ankles, showing his white trunks. Allison, still seated, is now facing him, her face at the level of his crotch. He takes her head to guide it toward his private parts. Allison looks up at him and then, with both fists and all her might, she hits him very hard between his legs. He screams. She jumps from her seat and runs out of the room. He falls on the floor, holding his private parts with both hands.
MITCHELL: Fucking bitch !
ALLISON: I can't believe I didn't see it coming. It's just so HEDRA ( voice over ) You're too nice, that's the problem. Men are pigs. I don't care how nice they seem. You always fall for that.
ALLISON: But what I did. It was like something inside taking over. It was scary. We see Hedra standing near the mantlepiece. She is wearing an orange T-shirt and a red skirt.
HEDRA: No, Allie, don't turn this around. You're the victim. He should pay for this. She kneels on the floor in front of Allison.
ALLISON: He'll pay. I set up all my programs, so they have to Hedra laughs.
HEDRA: What ! I'm not talking about getting paid, I'm talking about getting even.
ALLISON: You don't understand. It's the contacts more than the money. When I just took the job for the word of mouth and now that's gone. It's just like he's put me back to square Only if you let him. But you won't let him, will you ?
HEDRA: Only if you let him. But you won't let him, will you ?
ALLISON: What can I do ?
HEDRA: Oh, Allie. She opens Allison's purse and takes her address-book.
HEDRA: Of course, Sam's away. I didn't want to say anything. How he could go on that trip the day after Buddy died. She walks to the telephone table in the hall, flipping the pages of the address-book.
HEDRA: Especially when it was his fault. Since the bedroom door is wide open, we can see Hedra in the hall. She picks up the phone and starts dialing.
HEDRA: Hello ! May I speak with your husband, please ?
ALLISON: Who are you calling ? She gets up from the sofa on which she was sitting.
HEDRA: Yes, I know it's late. Tell him it's Allison Jones, he'll take the call. Allison has come to the telephone table.
ALLISON: Who are you talking ? Hedra shushes Allison with her finger.
HEDRA: Listen, you pathetic shit. Do you want to hold on to your business ?. No, you listen to me this time, asshole ! If you trash me around town, you're fucked and your family is fucked, too ! You got that ? It won't just be you. She puts the phone down, and starts laughing.
HEDRA: Let me tell you, he is pissing in his p.j.'s right now.
ALLISON: Gee, Hedy, I hope you never get mad at me.
ALLISON: Oh, Hedy, I'm not really up for this today.
HEDRA: What ? She puts her hand on Allison's neck.
HEDRA: No, no, no, this is going to be fun. It'll make you feel better, promise. Okay ? And I'm paying. Go. She takes Allison by the hand and drags her to the door of the Let's go. Allison tries to resist Hedra.
HEDRA: Let's go. Allison tries to resist Hedra.
ALLISON: Oh, Hedy.
HEDRA: It'll be fine, come on. They enter the shop.
ALLISON: Thank you. She smiles. She seems happy and puts her hands through her hair. Suddenly she stops, and the smile disappears from her mouth. She looks up in the mirror at someone descending the stairs from the upper level of the shop. She makes the swivel chair turn around to have a better look at the staircase. Close-up on Hedra going down the stair. Her hairdo is so much like Allison's one that she almost looks like a twin sister of Allison. Back to Allison's thunderstruck face.
ALLISON: You've got to be kidding.
ALLISON: You just should've asked first.
HEDRA: Well, I wanted it to be a surprise. They stop at a newspaper stand.
ALLISON: Can I have the Consumer Market, please.
HEDRA: This feels so good on my neck. I didn't think you'd mind. Allison is paying the attendant.
ALLISON: Thank you. please. Hedra seems to be worried by Allison's very cold reaction to her «surprise». She seems even a bit sad.
ELLEN BESCH: 441 OCEANSIDE EAST
TAMPA, FLA: Allison seems surprised by the name on the envelope.
ALLISON: Ellen Besch. She looks through all the other envelopes. On another envelope, a computer-generated label has been glued on the original Ellen Besch address. It reads :
ALLIE JONES: 768 W. 74TH ST. #1103
DEAR ALLIE,: I KNOW HOW MUCH I HU AND I KNOW HOW LITTLE MY CAN DO TO MAKE THINGS RIGHT. BUT PLEASE FOR THE SAKE WHAT WE HAD, GIVE ME THE CHANCE YOU FORGIVE ME, MAYBE I TOO. I NEVER WILL, IF WHAT I'VE HAS RUINED EVERYTHING. I'LL CALL YOU IN A FEW DAYS,IF I DON'T HEAR FROM YOU. I LOVE YOU, ALLIE DAY YOU GAVE ME I'M
SAM: DAY YOU GAVE ME I'M
HEDRA: Do you want me to fix you something before I go ?
ALLISON: Oh, no, thanks. I'm just going up and visit Graham.
HEDRA: I love myself like this.
ALLISON: I love myself like this.
HEDRA: I love myself like this.
ALLISON: Have fun. Allison opens the door and goes out.
HEDRA: Allison closes the door behind her.
HEDRA: I love myself like this.
INTERIOR NIGHT: answer she knocks on the door. Getting no answer again, she walks away from the door.
HEDRA: Taxi ! She raises her hand to stop a taxi cab. Allison, also coming from behind the camera, hides behind the corner of a wall to watch Hedra.
HEDRA: Hey ! A yellow cab stops and Hedra climbs in it. As soon as the cab is gone, Allison rushes from her hiding spot and runs to the street, with her hand raised.
ALLISON: Taxi !
ALLISON: It's very important. She has something of mine.
THE WOMAN: Do you want to play ?
ALLISON: No, thanks. Allison walks away, followed by the young woman. She passes near a cage, inside which we see a middle-aged man. The man gets his hand through the bars of the cage, and strokes Allison's cheek. Allison jumps, rubs her cheek and moves away from the cage. Behind Allison's back, we see the young woman, who was following her, coming to the cage and speaking to the man inside. From where she is, Allison can see what's going on at the bar, without actually be seen by the people seated on high stools along the bar. Reverse angle shot on the bar itself, and more precisely, on Hedra, seated on a stool, with a man, seated on another stool, stroking her cheek.
HEDRA: Come on, Jim. The bartender, a bald bare-chested young man, turns toward Hedra.
THE BARTENDER: Allie ! Hearing her name, Allison starts and looks at the bartender THE BARTENDER ( voice over ) Hey, Allie ! Regular or diet ? Hedra turns towards the bartender.
HEDRA: A flash of light enable us to have a better view of Hedra's companion, the man she called «Jim». He looks a bit like Sam.
JIM: Something's different. Hedra smiles.
HEDRA: Allison is staring at the couple Jim laughs.
JIM: Allison is staring at the couple Jim laughs.
GRAHAM: Jesus, Allie, what is it ? Graham is opening his front door to Allie, who enters the apartment, but stays near the open front door.
ALLISON: God, you've got to help me, Graham. You've got to tell me what to do.
HEDRA: Allie ? She closes the door and locks it.
HEDRA: I'm home. She drops her keys on the shelf near the door and crosses the The camera moves into the living room.
HEDRA: Allie ? She seems slightly drunk and doesn't control her movements very well. Before entering the living room, she takes a blue bag in the kitchen ( maybe something to eat ) and drops it on a table. But, being a bit nervous, she actually drops the bag on a small bowl containing various objects, and the bowl falls on the floor and breaks into pieces.
HEDRA: Allie ? Hedra looks at the fallen bowl and bends down to pick up the The bowl has fallen near the air vent. It is exactly the same as the one which, earlier in the film, had enabled Graham to hear Sam and Allison's conversation. Hedra kneels down to gather the pieces of the broken bowl. We hear a faint voice. Hedra raises her head, trying to find out where this faint voice comes from. First, we don't understand the words the faint voice is saying, then it becomes clearer. It's Allison's voice speaking to Graham in his apartment. ALLISON ( voice over from the air vent ) It's like looking at myself. And she lies. I found a shoebox in her room. Hedra understands that the voice is coming from the air vent, and she moves closer to it. ALLISON ( voice over from the air vent ) Nothing she told me is true. The twin that she said died at birth. It was in an accident when she was nine. Hedra moves a brass knob on the air vent, to open it wider and to have a better understanding of the words.
HEDRA: The bowl has fallen near the air vent. It is exactly the same as the one which, earlier in the film, had enabled Graham to hear Sam and Allison's conversation. Hedra kneels down to gather the pieces of the broken bowl. We hear a faint voice. Hedra raises her head, trying to find out where this faint voice comes from. First, we don't understand the words the faint voice is saying, then it becomes clearer. It's Allison's voice speaking to Graham in his apartment. Hedra understands that the voice is coming from the air vent, and she moves closer to it. Hedra moves a brass knob on the air vent, to open it wider and to have a better understanding of the words.
ALLISON: And she stole a letter that Sam wrote me. I have to do Graham gets up from the couch.
GRAHAM: Get rid of her.
ALLISON: You're right. I'll tell her tonight. Allison gets up from the couch, with her cup in her hand.
ALLISON: I can't just throw her out on the street. I mean, she obviously needs help.
GRAHAM: She is a lunatic, Allie. She's got to go. Do it tonight.
GRAHAM: Allie, either she's gone by Saturday, or I go to the police, okay ? Allison laughs.
ALLISON: That was very impressive.
GRAHAM: I can be butch when I have to. I got it from my mother.
ALLISON: She walks to a table to pick up her purse.
ALLISON: Oh, tomorrow. Allison picks up her purse and they start walking towards the front door.
GRAHAM: That's good.
ALLISON: Oh, this is a little embarrassing, but since we're letting our hair down. Those old air vents between our apartments carry sound. It's a weird acoustic thing. They've stopped walking.
GRAHAM: Oh, this is a little embarrassing, but since we're letting our hair down. Those old air vents between our apartments carry sound. It's a weird acoustic thing. They've stopped walking.
ALLISON: Oh. What do you hear ? He does not answer but he makes a face and then laughs, which is a good answer to Allison's question. She puts her head down in her hand, feeling a bit embarrassed.
ALLISON: Oh, no ! Oh no ! I'm. I'm sorry.
GRAHAM: Big deal. I am sorry. I should've mentioned it sooner.
ALLISON: I'm so sorry.
GRAHAM: You're sure you want to go down there ?
ALLISON: Yeah. She's my problem. I'll handle it. She starts walking again towards the front door. Graham follows Allison opens the door.
ALLISON: Thank you for the tea. I'll see you tomorrow.
GRAHAM: Allison goes out and Graham closes the door behind her, and then locks it.
ALLISON: Hedy ? She puts her keys on the shelf by the door.
ALLISON: Hedy ? She walks around the hall, looking in all the rooms.
ALLISON: Hedy ? We hear a little noise, and we see Allison turning her head. Close up on a mirror-covered door opening slowly. At that very moment, we, the spectators, do think we are still in Allison's apartment. But actually, we are in :
GRAHAM: I don't know. I don't even know what hyper-vigilant is. No, I've never met the woman. She could be infantile or paranoid, whatever. I don't know.
GRAHAM: I tell you what, let me go downstairs. If I call you from there, will you talk to my friend ? She can tell you better than I can. Right, okay. We hear some noise in the background, and Graham turns his head towards the noise. Quick reverse angle shot on the corridor seen from the living-room door. It looks empty and quiet. Back to Graham on the phone.
GRAHAM: Thanks. So. so, all right. so, so you might hear from us. Love to Jack. And you're not charging me for this. He puts the telephone down on his set on the table, turns his head again in the direction where he heard the strange noise, and gets up. He thinks it may be the cat and calls her with a soft gentle He gets out of the room into the corridor.
GRAHAM: He gets out of the room into the corridor.
GRAHAM: Allie ! She doesn't turn her head and just wave her hand.
HEDRA: She has almost reached the front door, when Graham realizes that something is queer about the girl's attitude.
GRAHAM: Hedy ? She turns around. She seems very panicky suddenly. She starts fumbling with the locks of the door, and drops the safety bar on the floor.
HEDRA: I'm sorry.
GRAHAM: Wait. hey, wait, it's okay. Take it easy. Take it. We just want to get you some help. Hedra is kneeling down, fumbling with the fallen safety bar.
HEDRA: No, Please. Please. I didn't do anything wrong. Graham is walking slowly towards her.
GRAHAM: Okay, take it easy.
HEDRA: I'm sorry, I didn't do anything.
GRAHAM: No problem. Hedra suddenly stands up with the safety bar held firmly in both hands. She strikes Graham first in the stomach, then, as he doubles up with pain, she strikes him again on the shoulder. Graham falls on the floor, and she gives him a final blow on the head, leaving him unconscious on the floor.
ALLISON: Hello, Mr. Besch, you don't know me, my name is Allison Jones. I think my room-mate Hedra is your daughter. Ellen. I'm not sure, really. She's. She's been under a lot of stress lately. And. Well. Huh. Huh. God. I really, really would not get into this on the answering machine. Could you please give me a call ? Or her ? I'm sure you have the phone number. It's 2-1-2-5-5-5-9-8-1-4.
ALLISON: Oh, thank you. She puts the phone down.
HEDRA: What ? Apparently, Hedra has not spoken loud enough above the noise of the shower, because Allison knocks again on the door. ALLISON ( voice over ) Hedy, are you all right ?
HEDRA: I can't hear you. She has spoken with a very soft voice, and apparently Allison hasn't heard her, because she opens the door, and walks slowly towards the shower
ALLISON: It's okay, it's just I was starting to worry. You've been in here so long. I'm making some tea. Do you want some tea ? Camomile. Hedra turns slowly her head towards Allison and smiles.
HEDRA: Yeah. that'd be great. She turns the shower off, and stands up. She picks up a towel. Allison turns her head, apparently feeling embarrassed to see her Close up on the basin, full of water, and where Hedra's clothes are soaking. The water is red with what looks like blood. HEDRA ( voice over ) I'm not feeling really well. Hedra, wrapped in a large bath towel, has noticed that Allison has been looking at the blood in the basin.
HEDRA: Mine always comes when I'm wearing something nice. She walks slowly across the bathroom. When she passes near the basin, she notices that a small part of her clothes are not inside the basin, and she moves it back inside.
ALLISON: Are you crampy ? Sometimes tea helps. Something warm. We could talk. Hedra has reached her room's door, and she turns around.
HEDRA: About what ? Hedra walks into her room followed by Allison.
ALLISON: About Sam and I wanting this place for ourselves.
ALLISON: .It's just crazy keeping two places like this. Hedra sits on the bed. She is wearing a night shirt and a large sweater over the night shirt. ( NOTE - This could be considered as a continuity goof. Apparently, Hedra has been able to change from the bath towel to the night shirt and sweater in less than a second ! )
HEDRA: Well. Well, I. I thought you wanted a long engagement so you could make sure you can trust him again.
ALLISON: Well, frankly, I think that's my business. I'm sorry, but it is. Hedra cracks her knuckles.
HEDRA: Huh-huh. It's me, isn't it ? I'll change, Allie. I can No, that's not it at all. You've been a good room-mate. It's just. This is the man I'm going to marry. I want us to start our lives together.
ALLISON: No, that's not it at all. You've been a good room-mate. It's just. This is the man I'm going to marry. I want us to start our lives together.
HEDRA: Well. He will cheat on you again, that's a promise. And when he does, don't come running to me, okay ? Cause. I've had it with you. You're so fucking weak ! Suddenly, she has a very menacing face. Allison, still standing up, looks down at her with a very hard stare. Hedra, seeing that stare, calms down and laughs.
HEDRA: I'm sorry. I'm so sorry. The phone rings, but Allison, who is still looking down at Hedra with her very hard stare, doesn't move. Hedra turns her head in the direction of the phone.
HEDRA: Allie ? Hedra now has a very sweet look on her face. She gets up and out of the room.
HEDRA: Hello ? Allison enters the room from Hedra's bedroom.
ALLISON: Is it Sam ? We hear a male voice over the phone. We quickly understand it's Hedra's father. HEDRA'S FATHER ( voice over on the telephone ) Ellen, is that you ? Talk to me, or your mother. Honey, we miss you. We want you to come home. HEDRA ( with a deep menacing voice ) Don't call here again. HEDRA'S FATHER ( voice over on the telephone ) Ellen, listen. We'll stop sending the cheques if you don't come. I promise, no doctors this time. Just come. Hedra puts the telephone down. She doesn't move for a couple of seconds, then looks at Allison, trying to look more casual than she actually is. She has a little nervous laugh.
HEDRA: Obscene phone call. New York ! The phone rings again. Hedra picks up the receiver and slams it on the table. Then she presses on a button on the telephone set to cut off the communication.
HEDRA: Find someone else, jerk ! Allison walks to the telephone table.
ALLISON: I'm expecting a call from Sam. He might be coming in Just for a little while, okay. Sam will call back if it's Hedra hugs Allison.
HEDRA: Just for a little while, okay. Sam will call back if it's Hedra hugs Allison.
HEDRA: I'm sorry, Allie. She moves away from Allison, looking falsely casual.
HEDRA: It's no big deal. I'll find some other place. You know, I just. I don't want you making a mistake.
ALLISON: I understand. Hey, we'll still be friends. We'll keep in Allison walks away to her room. Hedra picks up the telephone set from the little table, without putting the receiver back on its hook. We hear several short beeps coming from the telephone. With one nervous movement, Hedra tears the cord off the wall socket. Then she walks slowly into her room.
HEDRA: Allison walks away to her room. Hedra picks up the telephone set from the little table, without putting the receiver back on its hook. We hear several short beeps coming from the telephone. With one nervous movement, Hedra tears the cord off the wall socket. Then she walks slowly into her room.
HEDRA: No, it's Hedy.
SAM: Oh. I just got in from the airport. Is she asleep ? HEDRA ( voice over on the phone ) ALLISON'S APARTMENT - HEDRA'S BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT Hedra gives a quick look at the clock on the night table.
HEDRA: It's after two. Do you want me to wake her ? SAM ( voice over on the phone ) No, tell her to surprise me.
SAM: HEDRA ( voice over on the phone ) Okay, I'll tell her.
SAM: Goodnight, honey.
HEDRA: Goodnight, Sam. Sleep well. She slowly puts the phone down and plays a little with it.
SAM: Oh. Oh. Jesus !. Oh. Gee. Suddenly, Sam realizes that something may be wrong. He gives an anxious look at Hedra.
SAM: Allie ? Hedra raises her head from Sam's private parts.
HEDRA: No, not Allie. She resumes what she was doing. Sam would like to push her away, but he is so close to his climax that he can't do it. He has his orgasm, with Hedra not moving away from between his She only raises her head when she is sure it is over. She gives him a light kiss on the pubis and smiles. Then she moves up in the bed, her head finally resting near Sam's one. Sam is breathing very hard. Hedra strokes him on the chest, and kisses his cheek. Then she gets up and off the bed, and puts her raincoat back on. She picks up a half-full glass on a table and drinks from it, what looks like beer. Then she eats something from a plate on the same Sam breathes normally again and moves slowly on the bed. He lies on his side, facing away from Hedra.
HEDRA: Hey ! With the glass still in her hand, she walks to the bed
HEDRA: Hey, sleepy guy. She puts the glass on the night table, and kneels on the bed. She start stroking Sam's shoulder.
HEDRA: I knew it.
SAM: Knew what ?
HEDRA: I told her. Guys like you don't change. You can't be faithful. And now she'll know. While talking, she keeps on stroking his face. Sam doesn't react to her caress.
SAM: She'll know what ? He switches on the light on the night-table. He then turn around to face her.
SAM: That you came up here and pretended to be her ? My God, what is this hair ? What is this supposed to mean ? You're in her clothes. You're wearing her perfume! For Christ- sake ! He jumps out of the bed, and starts putting his clothes on. Hedra remains seated on the bed, drinking her glass.
HEDRA: You knew it was me. Come on ! You knew and you didn't care. Well, I think she should know that.
SAM: You think she's going to thank you for that news, do you ?
HEDRA: Well, I don't expect you to understand her friendship. She puts her glass on the night table, and gathers her shoes to put them back on her feet.
SAM: She can't. she can't stand you, for Christ-sake !
HEDRA: That's not true.
SAM: Oh, bullshit !
HEDRA: She shakes her head «no».
SAM: You're too needy. You're always cleaning. You're constantly in her face.
HEDRA: She needs me. Who was there for her when her boss almost raped her ?
SAM: What ?
HEDRA: Could you care of her ? You were off on a business trip or screwing someone.
SAM: She never said a word to me about that. After his pants, Sam has put his shirt back on. Hedra gets up from the bed where she was still sitting.
HEDRA: That's right, she told me. She sits back on the bed.
HEDRA: So. don't try and make me think that we're not close. We lean on each other and we. we protect each other. We're best friends.
SAM: You're nuts, you know that ? Yes. I think you're out of your skull, that's right.
HEDRA: Yeah, well, sticks and stones. He comes near the bed and bends down to pick up something. Hedra rushes on him.
HEDRA: Sam ! He pushes her away from him.
SAM: Don't touch me ! She sits back on the bed.
HEDRA: I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Look, I know you want to save face. I won't tell her, okay ? Just. Just pick up the phone and call her and tell her you're going back to your ex-wife, or something. And I won't say a word, okay ?
SAM: Yeah. Well, you won't have to say a word, sweetheart, because I'm going to tell her myself. He walks to the night-table and picks up the telephone. She throws one of her shoes towards him. The shoe hits the wall just above his head. HEDRA ( yelling ) No ! He rushes towards her, ready to hit her.
SAM: Fucking bitch ! But, before he reaches her, she strikes him very hard in the face with her other shoe. The stiletto heel of the shoe enters his left eye, and, behind the eye, certainly enters his skull and his brain, because, instantly after the blow, Sam falls heavily on his back on the floor, where he remains motionless and unconscious. With her bare foot, Hedra touches his cheek. HEDRA ( softly ) Hey !. Hey !
HOTEL CLERK: Goodnight, Miss Jones. Without turning her head, Hedra waves her hand.
HEDRA: ALLISON'S APARTMENT - ALLISON'S BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY Allison slowly wakes up to some noise in the apartment.
ALLISON: Hedy ?. Hedy ? She eventually finds her in the living room, vigorously cleaning the mantlepiece. Hedra is wearing a long plain gray dress and red rubber gloves. Allison remains at the door of the room.
ALLISON: Hedy ? Hedra looks up at Allison, but doesn't stop her cleaning.
HEDRA: Oh, hi ! I hope I didn't wake you. I got an early start.
ALLISON: No, Hedy, I didn't mean for you to move out today. Hedra looks around the room.
HEDRA: Oh, there, I think that's it. She goes out of the room into the hall.
HEDRA: I hope you don't mind. I'm storing some of my stuff in the cage downstairs. She resumes her vigorous cleaning in the hall, starting with the small shelf by the front door.
HEDRA: That way, I won't have to bother. You see what I mean. You know. I mean. Allison has come near Hedra.
ALLISON: Sure, that's fine. Look, I'm really sorry it didn't work Hedra has stacked «her stuff» near the front door. She picks them up : a red suitcase, a cardboard box and a large paper bag. She has taken her rubber gloves off and keeps them in one hand.
HEDRA: Well, I'd better get this stuff out of here. Allison walks to the door.
ALLISON: I'll help. She opens the door.
ALLISON: We can have breakfast when you get back. Hedra walks out of the apartment. Allison closes the door, but remains behind it, lost in her thoughts.
ALLISON: Sam Rawson's room, please, room 6-12.. HOTEL CLERK ( voice over on the phone ) I'm sorry, there's been an accident. I think you should speak to the police. She doesn't even wait for the end of the sentence, and drops the phone, letting the receiver hang on its cord. She rushes out of the kitchen.
HEDRA: Allie ? Hedra sees the stiletto heel shoe behind the toilet bowl, where it has been knocked away.
HEDRA: What are you doing down there ? Allison remains kneeling on the floor, just supporting herself on her arms.
ALLISON: Oh. I just suddenly felt sick. It was the funniest thing. I hope I'm not pregnant. Hedra walks towards Allison to help her stand up.
HEDRA: Let me help you. Allison stands up.
ALLISON: Oh, that's all right, I'm fine.
HEDRA: I'll get some water. Hedra walks to the basin, but wraps her hand in the bottom of her dress before touching the water tap. Allison walks out of the room.
HEDRA: Wait ! Allison stops at the door, and turns around toward Hedra. Close-up on the mirror above the basin, showing Hedra and Allison standing next to each other.
HEDRA: Drink some. Allison takes the tooth glass and drinks. Hedra strokes her Okay ? Allison puts the glass down and shakes her head «Yes». Hedra strokes the back of her head.
HEDRA: Okay ? Allison puts the glass down and shakes her head «Yes». Hedra strokes the back of her head.
HEDRA: Feeling better ?
ALLISON: Yeah. I can go out for a while. I feel much better now.
HEDRA: I thought you said breakfast ? Allison has reached the front door, and she starts unlocking the Oh, it's in the blender. I've got to go out. Hedra looks at Allison thin sleeveless night shirt and smiles.
ALLISON: Oh, it's in the blender. I've got to go out. Hedra looks at Allison thin sleeveless night shirt and smiles.
HEDRA: Dressed like that?
ALLISON: I'm out. I'm just going to go upstairs and see Graham. He called while you were out. Hedra looks at Allison with a very strange expression on her face. She can see the tears on Allison's face.
HEDRA: Well, still, if you're not feeling well, you should wear more than that.
ALLISON: Maybe you're right. She walks away to her room. Hedra puts her hand on her face.
HEDRA: ALLISON'S APARTMENT - ALLISON'S BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY Allison enters her room coming from the hall. Allison grabs a pair of pants and puts them on. Hedra enters slowly in the room, carrying the large paper bag where she has put the gun. Allison takes her night shirt off. She is now naked from the waist up. But she grabs a sweater and puts it on.
HEDRA: You know why I think you're sick ? While talking, Hedra slowly slides her hand into the paper bag, takes a pair of black gloves out of the bag and puts the bag down on the floor.
HEDRA: You're upset about Sam. Slowly, Hedra puts the black gloves on her hands.
HEDRA: You know Sam's dead, don't you ? Allison turns around to face Hedra.
HEDRA: Yeah, we don't have much time. She picks up the bag and walks to a chest of drawers. She puts the bag on the floor and opens the top drawer. ALLISON ( crying ) You didn't. you didn't do it, Hedy, did you ? Hedra is taking white pantie and bra from the drawer ALLISON ( crying ) You couldn't have him ! She falls down, sitting on the floor and crying.
ALLISON: Why ?. Why ?
HEDRA: Allie, he came in my mouth. Then he tried to beat the shit out of me because I wanted to tell you. She slams the drawer shut, and opens another one.
HEDRA: You know, it was an accident. But he deserved it. She claps her hands.
HEDRA: Okay, come on. The police will be here soon. Allison doesn't move and remains seated on the floor.
ALLISON: But. but you shouldn't run. That'll only make it worse. I know you weren't yourself when you did this, Hedy. Hedra laughs.
HEDRA: I know. I was you. She points her gloved finger to Allison, and then looks at herself in the mirror.
HEDRA: Who is this Hedy anyway ? She turns around, and walks away from the mirror towards Allison.
HEDRA: No one's seen her. She's not on the lease. There's not even a fingerprint of hers here. I've been cleaning like crazy. You have to come with me, Allie, or they'd put you away.
ALLISON: Hedy, it'll never work. Besides . people have seen you. We just can't tell. We'll go to a lawyer or a doctor and they'll explain it to the police, or something. Hedra, who is now very upset, knocks everything, that was on top of the chest of drawer, with a long sweeping movement, down on the She bends down and takes the gun out of the paper bag.
HEDRA: She bends down and takes the gun out of the paper bag.
HEDRA: Why are you making me do this ? She snaps a cartridge into the chamber of the gun.
HEDRA: We're friends, Allie. You could be in a lot of trouble without me. But I'm not going to leave you. She walks to Allison and kneels on the floor besides her, pointing the gun to her head
HEDRA: That wouldn't be right. I won't leave you. Okay, let's go. Up ! Up ! Up ! She slaps her face.
INTERIOR DAY: Hedra leads Allison along the hall. She is carrying her paper bag in one hand and the gun in the other hand. She still has her gloves on. Allison is carrying a small plastic case.
HEDRA: Go ! Go-go-go ! They reach the elevator and Allison is ready to press the call button, but Hedra moves her away towards the staircase.
HEDRA: No-no, up to Graham's. Come on. No-no, he's already ALLISON'S BUILDING - MAIN STAIRCASE - INTERIOR DAY ALLISON'S BUILDING - LANDING HALL OUTSIDE GRAHAM'S APARTMENT - INTERIOR DAY They reach Graham's front door. Allison rings the bell, waits a couple of seconds and turns around.
INTERIOR DAY: They reach Graham's front door. Allison rings the bell, waits a couple of seconds and turns around.
ALLISON: Nobody's home. Hedra takes some keys out of her bag and gives them to Allison with the gloved hand that is still holding the gun.
HEDRA: Use these. Come on, come on, hurry up. Go ! Allison takes the keys and unlocks the door.
ALLISON: He must be sleeping. We were up late last night. Hedra seems very nervous. While Allison is unlocking the door, she keeps looking around her and pressing Allison's back with her gun. Allison opens the door, and enters the apartment, followed by Graham ?
ALLISON: Graham ?
HEDRA: He can't hear you. Hedra closes the door behind them.
HEDRA: Your color was beautiful, but I can't go around looking like you any more, can I ? She smiles.
HEDRA: Okay now, Allie, don't laugh. She walks in front of the window, and makes a couple of dance Ta-dah ! Reverse angle shot on Allison, tied up in an armchair with duct tape. Each one of Allison's arms is tied on each armrest of the armchair. Her legs are tied on the legs of the armchair, and her chest is tied on the back of the armchair. There is also a piece of tape across her face to keep her mouth shut. Hedra laughs and turns the TV set on. The screen shows a documentary about African fauna. Hedra turns the volume slightly How's that ? Good ? She puts the remote control on the armrest of the armchair, within easy reach of Allison's right hand. Allison doesn't move at all.
HEDRA: Ta-dah ! Reverse angle shot on Allison, tied up in an armchair with duct tape. Each one of Allison's arms is tied on each armrest of the armchair. Her legs are tied on the legs of the armchair, and her chest is tied on the back of the armchair. There is also a piece of tape across her face to keep her mouth shut. Hedra laughs and turns the TV set on. The screen shows a documentary about African fauna. Hedra turns the volume slightly How's that ? Good ? She puts the remote control on the armrest of the armchair, within easy reach of Allison's right hand. Allison doesn't move at all.
HEDRA: How's that ? Good ? She puts the remote control on the armrest of the armchair, within easy reach of Allison's right hand. Allison doesn't move at all.
HEDRA: 22 and 24 are the movie channels. I've got to cash a pay cheque. So I'll only be gone an hour. I know how you hate to be alone. Okay. Are you good and comfortable ? All She walks away from the armchair, takes the towel off her neck and down on the back of a chair. She takes her purse.
HEDRA: So, well. When I get back, we'll do your hair, too. Okay ? Be good. Bye. She gets out of the room. Allison moves for the first time : she turns her head around, then looks back at the TV screen. Reverse angle shot. On the TV screen, close up of a lion yawning. Reverse angle shot. Allison looks at the remote control on the Close up on the remote control. Almost at the top of the remote control, we see the two volume control buttons : up and down. And under those buttons, we see the two channel control buttons. Close up on Allison's face looking at the remote control. Close up on Allison's right hand moving the remote control on the armrest, to get the volume control buttons within reach of her forefinger. She presses the up button. On the TV screen, we see the volume bar graph going up on the picture of a crocodile. And the volume of the music goes up too. Allison looks at the remote control again. Close up on Allison's forefinger pressing one of the channel control buttons. On the screen, we see a different channel : a comic movie. A couple is having dinner in a restaurant and the waiter pours the water bucket on the man. Another channel. A woman is sleeping. A telephone rings. Reverse angle shot on Allison pressing the channel control buttons. We hear a male voice for a couple of second, then Allison changes the channel again. The TV screen seen from behind Allison's hand dialing on the remote control. There is a cartoon on the screen. Then another channel showing the concert of a rock music band. Close up on Allison's face looking at the screen and then at the remote control in her hand. Reverse angle shot on the TV set. The volume bar graph is going up again until it reaches the end of the graph. The volume of the sound of the rock music is very high.
INTERIOR DAY: We hear the rock music very loudly in the empty hall. The front door of apartment 1206 opens slowly. A man with glasses on his nose peeks into the hall. He seems very annoyed by the BANK OFFICE - HALL - INTERIOR DAY Close up on the hand of Hedra writing «Ellen Besch» on the back of a cheque on the cashier's counter. In front of her, we see the hands of the cashier girl on the other side of the glass Larger view of the bank office hall. Hedra is standing in front of the cashier's desk. We see the cashier girl through the partition glass. Behind Hedra, a man is waiting for his turn, reading a Through the opening at the bottom of the partition, she gives her cheque to the girl. Closer shot. Now we are on the cashier's side of the partition, and we see Hedra's face through the glass.
HEDRA: Excuse me ? Through the opening at the bottom of the partition, she gives her cheque to the girl. Closer shot. Now we are on the cashier's side of the partition, and we see Hedra's face through the glass.
CASHIER GIRL: You're an actress, right ? You're never the same person Reverse angle shot. We are now on Hedra's side of the partition, and we see the cashier girl through the glass : she is a blonde girl about the same age as Hedra. She puts her finger on her own CASHIER GIRL I like it. I just thought the other was more you. Reverse angle shot. Cashier's side.
CASHIER GIRL: I like it. I just thought the other was more you. Reverse angle shot. Cashier's side.
HEDRA: Well, maybe next time I'll try blonde. Reverse angle shot. Hedra's side. The cashier girl smiles.
CASHIER GIRL: Really ? I'm flattered. Thanks. A male bank clerk, sitting at a desk behind the cashier girl, stands up and walks to the partition glass.
BANK CLERK: Miss Besch ?
HEDRA: Yes ?
BANK CLERK: A man's been calling here. Says he's your father. Reverse angle shot. Cashier's side. Hedra seems worried by what the man is saying. BANK CLERK ( voice over ) Might even come to New York if you don't call him. Hedra runs away from the counter. BANK CLERK ( voice over ) Miss Besch !
INTERIOR DAY: clearly. The building manager is standing by the door, with the neighbor from apartment 1206 behind him. The neighbor has his glasses hanging around his neck on a string. The building manager rings the bell. Then he bangs on the door with his fist.
BUILDING MANAGER: Hey !
ALLISON: Mmmm ! She starts moving again to free herself from the armchair, but she doesn't succeed. The bell rings again. Allison turns her heard towards the front A BUSY STREET IN NEW-YORK - EXTERIOR DAY Hedra is walking very fast on the sidewalk. She passes a fruit shop and bumps into a pedestrian girl, but doesn't stop to THE PEDESTRIAN GIRL Jerk ! Hedra keeps on walking very fast. She seems worried.
INTERIOR DAY: sorting them trying to find the right key to the apartment.
INTERIOR DAY: Close up on the manager's hand putting the key in the keyhole.
INTERIOR DAY: Hedra just came out of the elevator and is closing the inner door of the cabin. She turns the corner of the hall and suddenly sees the manager and the neighbor near Graham's door. She runs towards them and yells.
HEDRA: Oh ! The apartment door is wide open, but, when they see Hedra, the two men don't enter the apartment. The neighbor goes back into his own apartment, but the manager remains just outside the apartment.
BUILDING MANAGER: You live here ? Hedra closes the door to talk to the manager, but she doesn't lock No, no, I'm just watching the place for the week-end like that. It's on a timer. Huh. Huh. I'm sorry.
HEDRA: No, no, I'm just watching the place for the week-end like that. It's on a timer. Huh. Huh. I'm sorry.
BUILDING MANAGER: I have to register a complaint.
HEDRA: Please, I'll turn it off. I will. She enters the apartment and closes the door shut behind her.
HEDRA: How could you do that ? Everything I've done, I've done for you. Don't you understand that ? People you hated, I hated. She stands up.
HEDRA: People like you don't care. She knocks a large metal vase down on the floor.
HEDRA: Just like that stupid girl in Tampa. She called my parents, too. Told them all my secrets. She comes behind Allison and pulls her hair to tilt her head back.
HEDRA: You want to put me away, huh ? She releases Allison's hair.
HEDRA: I can't. I can't keep making excuses for you, Allie. I can't. I can't. I can't. I can't. I can't. She walks out of the room. She is crying.
HEDRA: Oh God !. Oh God !. Ohhh ! We hear her crying in the next room. Allison turns her head slightly towards her. Close up on Allison's face. We hear Hedra screaming and breaking things. Allison seems terrified. Hedra comes back into the room. She has a big knife with a serrated blade in her hand. Close up on Allison's face. She seems more and more terrified. She starts moaning under her tape gag. Hedra is now just behind Allison. She puts the tip of the blade on Allison's throat, then the full length of the blade.
HEDRA: What ?. What ? She tears the tape off Allison's mouth.
ALLISON: Hedra's face is now very close to Allison's one. Allison raises her head and kisses Hedra on the mouth. Close up on the serrated blade of the knife on Allison's throat. The blade is ready to tear the skin, but doesn't move further. Slowly, Allison moves her mouth away from Hedra's one. Hedra slowly raises up. She has a strange look on her face. She seems not to understand the situation anymore. Close-up on Allison's head and throat. We can see the slightly bloody marks left by the serrated blade. Allison looks at Hedra moving away from her with an anxious face. Hedra kneels down in front of Allison. She bends down to rest her face on Allison's lap, and starts crying. Allison moves her hand as far as she can and strokes Hedra's hair.
HEDRA: Hedra's face is now very close to Allison's one. Allison raises her head and kisses Hedra on the mouth. Close up on the serrated blade of the knife on Allison's throat. The blade is ready to tear the skin, but doesn't move further. Slowly, Allison moves her mouth away from Hedra's one. Hedra slowly raises up. She has a strange look on her face. She seems not to understand the situation anymore. Close-up on Allison's head and throat. We can see the slightly bloody marks left by the serrated blade. Allison looks at Hedra moving away from her with an anxious face. Hedra kneels down in front of Allison. She bends down to rest her face on Allison's lap, and starts crying. Allison moves her hand as far as she can and strokes Hedra's hair.
ALLISON: Shhh !. It's okay. It's okay. Close-up on a wallet on the floor, close to Allison's foot. Allison is trying to reach it with her foot, but she can't because of her leg still being taped on the armchair. ALLISON ( voice over ) We've got to get out of here now. She eventually succeeds in kicking the wallet away from the armchair. And she keeps on stroking Hedra's hair, still crying on her lap.
BARBARA: She stands up, with horror in her face, and yells.
BARBARA: Mitch !
MITCHELL: What ? He doesn't stop rocking the armchair. BARBARA ( voice over from the main hall ) Get in here.
MITCHELL: What ? He reluctantly leaves the armchair and walks out of the room.
MITCHELL: What is it ? What? The computer is still making strange beeping noises. On the screen, pictures of dresses appear and then disappear immediately.
BARBARA: Close up on the screen. A data chart titled «Fontana Fashions» has appeared. The extreme left column is labelled «Expenses», and underneath, a list of all the expenses ( Lease - Telephone - Payroll - Liabilities. and son on ). The other columns on the right are labelled «Jan» to «Apr», and underneath lists of numbers corresponding to the various monthly expenses. But, the data chart has hardly appeared on the screen that the columns of numbers start erasing themselves one by one, starting with January.
BARBARA: It's erasing. Then, when all the numbers have been erased, a window appears on the screen with «LOST!» written in red letters in it. Another data chart appears on the screen : the expenses from May to August. And, on this chart, the columns of numbers also start to erase themselves. Mitchell looks severely at Barbara. She raises her hands.
BARBARA: I didn't do anything. Suddenly, Mitchell seems to remember something.
MITCHELL: Shit ! He runs away toward his office. The blonde woman is standing in the doorway of the office. Mitchell brutally pushes her away.
MITCHELL: .in 24 hours of the rest of your data will be irretrievably lost. This payment policing program is installed on all of Allison Jones software." Mitchell jumps up.
MITCHELL: Bitch !
ALLISON: Can you make reservations on this ?
HEDRA: Can you make reservations on this ?
ALLISON: Hm-m. And you can pay by credit card. Close up on Hedra's face who looks intensely at Allison, not believing completely that Allison is not trying to fool her.
ALLISON: L.A., right ?
HEDRA: She walks away.
MITCHELL: He throws the receiver on the desk. He starts walking away, then turns to Barbara.
MITCHELL: You turn them off. ( yelling ) Turn them all off ! Barbara remains calm, with the telephone receiver still at her Mitchell runs out of the room, and Barbara puts the telephone GRAHAM'S APARTMENT - WORKING ROOM - INTERIOR EVENING Close up on the computer screen. The window is titled «Compuserve». Underneath it reads «Flight Reservation». And underneath «Browse Flights by Fares». Underneath : «Departure City:». Next to it a box, where we see the letters «JFK» being typed. Underneath «Destination City:». Next to it, another box, where we see the letters «LAX» being typed. Another window appears, titled «Flight Information», and giving all the details of the different flights between New-York and Los Angeles. Allison is sitting at the desk typing on the computer, and Hedra is standing next to her.
HEDRA: Things are going to be different in L.A, Allie. You'll see.
ALLISON: First class ?
HEDRA: Is it worth it ?
ALLISON: Well, we can use one of Graham's cards. I think I saw his wallet in the living room.
HEDRA: Oh. Me too. Okay, I'll go and see. She gets out of the room. Close up on the computer screen. It switches from «Flight Information» to «Main Menu», and then to «Chat-Mail Menu». Close up on Allison's face focused on her typing on the computer. Close up on the computer screen. It reads «CB Simulator», and underneath «Chat Mode Initiated», and underneath «User: Don193». Underneath, we see the following words being typed :
ALLISON: I know I saw it somewhere. Maybe it's in the kitchen. Close up on the computer screen. The following words have been added :
ALLISON: No ! No ! No ! No !
HEDRA: Going down. The outer door closes in front of a bewildered Mitchell.
INTERIOR NIGHT: Through the windows, we can see that night has come. Mitchell goes out of the elevator, followed by Hedra pulling her suitcase behind her. Hedra goes directly to Graham's apartment. Mitchell first goes in the opposite direction, and then comes back towards Hedra.
MITCHELL: Oh. Excuse me, miss, is this 1203 ? Is Graham Knox at home ? Hedra is now in front of Graham's door and puts the key in the keyhole. Mitchell has caught up with her, and is standing behind No, he's on a cruise.
HEDRA: No, he's on a cruise.
MITCHELL: Actually, I'm looking for a woman Allison Jones ? Do you know her ? Hedra suddenly stops unlocking the door.
HEDRA: Who are you ?
MITCHELL: Mitchell Myerson. Hedra turns around to face Mitchell.
MITCHELL: She did a job for me.
HEDRA: Oh. There's no one named Jones on this floor.
MITCHELL: Yeah, I know that. I was just down at her apartment. But I did contact her here once.
HEDRA: Well, I'm the only one here and I never met her. So. You'll excuse me. She bends down to pick up the suitcase.
MITCHELL: Oh, sorry. Mitchell bends down to help her. He picks up the suitcase and looks at it.
MITCHELL: This is hers. You do know her. We hear a muffled scream coming from inside the apartment. Hedra opens the door to get inside as fast as possible, but Mitchell catches her and throws her aside. More muffled screams coming from the apartment. Mitchell rushes into the apartment, and closes the door shut behind him. Hedra rushes to the door, but too GRAHAM'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT Mitchell rushes into the room, stops and looks down. Allison is lying on the carpet, completely tied up in duct tape, looking like a human salami. She is gagged by another piece of tape. When she sees Mitchell, she starts wriggling and screaming through her gag. He kneels down and tears the tape off her mouth.
ALLISON: Be careful, she's crazy. Hedra enters the room, pointing her gun towards Mitchell.
HEDRA: Get off of her. Mitchell, still kneeling down across Allison's body, turns around.
MITCHELL: What ? Hedra walks towards him, still pointing her gun with both hands in front of her.
HEDRA: You think she wants you touching her, huh ? I said get off her !
MITCHELL: Okay, okay. I'm. I'm getting up. Okay. He gets up very slowly with his hands raised at his shoulders level. And suddenly, he grabs the gun and throws Hedra across the room. She falls on a round table, which breaks under her weight. She remains motionless on the floor. Allison looks anxiously at the scene, but, from her lying position on the carpet, doesn't see everything. Mitchell puts the gun inside his belt and kneels down to untie Where is she ?
ALLISON: Where is she ?
MITCHELL: Don't worry about her, I took care of her. Hedra suddenly comes behind him, and strikes him very hard on the head with a statuette. He falls down on the floor. Hedra rushes to him and picks up the gun from his belt. She takes a cushion from the back of an armchair, puts the cushion on Mitchell's face and presses the barrel of the gun on the cushion. Allison screams.
HEDRA: I don't want to try to be loved any more. And you know. The camera moves up to Hedra's face.
HEDRA: I don't want to be scared any more. Or to kill any more. I don't want to kill any more. I don't want to be alone any more. I don't want to be anything any more. I don't need a reason to kill myself, I need a reason not to and there isn't one. Hedra turns her head towards Allison sitting at the desk in front of the computer. The camera moves away to a larger shot, and we see that the gun is stuck in the hollow of Hedra's left elbow.
HEDRA: You don't want to say anything special to anyone ? Allison shakes her head «no».
HEDRA: Okay, «Allison Jones», go on. Close up on the computer screen. We see the words Hedra just dictated : «I don't want to try to be loved.» and so on up to «.there isn't one.» The words «Allison Jones» are being typed. Back to Hedra pointing her gun to Allison. She takes Allison's hand and presses it on the screen of the computer.
HEDRA: Now they'll know it was you.
ALLISON: No one who knows me will believe that I wrote that. I was never that scared. Well. not like that.
HEDRA: Of course it's you. I never met anyone so scared of being alone. And I saved you from that, but you don't care. She brings a glass of water to Allison, who takes it.
HEDRA: Did you know that identical twins are never really identical ? There's always one that's prettier. And the one who's not does all the work. She used me and then she left me. Just like you. She puts the barrel of the gun on Allison's temple, and she opens her left hand in front of Allison's face.
HEDRA: Come on. take them. Come on, Allie, it's nicer this way.
ALLISON: Close up on Hedra's hand full of blue pills. She pours them into Allison's left hand. Allison's other hand still holds the glass of Without warning, Allison suddenly smashes the glass on Hedra's Then the two girls start fighting for the gun. Allison slams Hedra's hand on a mirror hanging on the wall. The glass of the mirror breaks into small pieces, but Hedra doesn't drop the gun. The two girls keep on fighting on the floor, knocking various object around them. Close up of Allison's hand holding Hedra's hand with the gun, and smashing it through the window. The pane breaks into small pieces, and Hedra drops the gun on the balcony. Hedra moves away from Allison. Close up of Allison's hand picking up a piece of glass lying near the gun on the balcony. Allison slashes Hedra's chest with the broken piece of glass. Hedra falls on the floor and Allison rushes out of the room. Hedra gets up and picks up the gun from the balcony.
HEDRA: Allie ! Allison has opened the door and turns around to face Hedra. Hedra walks slowly along the corridor towards Allison.
HEDRA: Allison still has the piece of broken glass in her hand. Behind Hedra, we see Graham moving in the bathroom.
HEDRA: Reverse angle shot to Allison standing in the open doorway and holding the piece of broken glass.
ALLISON: I'm not like your sister, Hedy. Not any more. I'm like you Close up on the barrel of the gun. Graham rushes out of the bathroom, grabs Hedra by the waist and falls with her on the floor. ALLISON ( voice over ) Graham ! Graham bangs Hedra's head repeatedly on the floor. Hedra succeeds in moving slightly away from him, and try to point her gun toward I'll kill you ! Allison rushes towards them, grabs Hedra by her feet, and pulls her towards the front door. Hedra, still lying on her stomach while being pulled away by Allison, still tries desperately to point her gun towards Graham.
HEDRA: I'll kill you ! Allison rushes towards them, grabs Hedra by her feet, and pulls her towards the front door. Hedra, still lying on her stomach while being pulled away by Allison, still tries desperately to point her gun towards Graham.
ALLISON: Get off him ! Allison succeeds in pulling Hedra out of the apartment. Hedra grabs the front door with both hands to try to resist Allison's ALLISON'S BUILDING - LANDING HALL OUTSIDE GRAHAM'S APARTMENT - INTERIOR NIGHT Allison pulls a little harder, and Hedra's hands are squeezed by the door. She screams. Allison lets go of Hedra's legs to close the door shut.
INTERIOR NIGHT: Allison pulls a little harder, and Hedra's hands are squeezed by the door. She screams. Allison lets go of Hedra's legs to close the door shut.
ALLISON: Graham, stay inside ! GRAHAM ( voice over from inside the apartment ) All right. Allison runs away towards the elevator. Hedra, still lying on the floor, raises her gun towards Allison and shoots. Allison screams : she's been shot in the left shoulder. Hedra shoots again, but Allison hides behind the corner of the wall of the hall. Hedra gets up to run after Allison. Close up on the elevator. Allison is already inside the cabin and closes the inner door just as Hedra reaches the elevator.
HEDRA: No. No. No. Allison pulls Hedra right arm through the vertical bars of the inner door, and opens it again, squeezing Hedra's arm very hard. Hedra screams and drops her gun on the cabin floor. Allison closes the inner door shut. Close up of Allison's hand picking the gun up from the floor.
HEDRA: No. No. No. Hedra watches the outer door closing slowly. Allison points the gun towards Hedra and presses the trigger several times. But nothing happens : there are no more cartridge in the chamber of the gun. Hedra opens the inner door to get into the elevator. Allison tries to prevent her from getting in, but Hedra eventually succeeds in getting into the cabin. She closes the inner door, and the outer door closes itself automatically. Hedra throws Allison against the wall of the cabin. Then she bangs her head very hard against the wall. Allison pulls Hedra away from her. Hedra hits the wall on the other side of the cabin, and falls on the floor. Allison rushes and falls on Hedra, but Hedra pushes her away from her. The two girls start fighting in the cabin. They fall on the floor, Hedra on top of Allison. Hedra tries to strangle Allison. Close up of Allison's face choking under the pressure of Hedra's Short reverse angle close up shot of Hedra's face, then back to Allison's face. Close up on the screwdriver hanging from its chain and rocking gently with the movement of the elevator. Allison's hand tries to catch it and doesn't succeed. Back on Allison's face, suffocating more and more under Hedra's strangulation. Back, for a couple of seconds, to Allison's hand trying to catch the screwdriver, and then back to her suffocating Close up on Allison's hand which has eventually caught the screwdriver, then back to her face. The face slowly relaxes as Allison falls into unconsciousness. Her arm, which was extended to catch the screwdriver, falls on the floor of the cabin. Hedra watches Allison's face intently. Then, when she realizes that Allison is unconscious, she bends down and kisses her on the cheek. She brings Allison's both arms along Allison's sides, then she puts her head on her chest and kisses her hand.
HEDRA: Allie ? She runs to the blanket, but doesn't stop and keeps on running to the elevator. She gives a quick look inside the open cabin, then tries to open a large locked gate, near the elevator, but doesn't HEDRA ( yelling ) Allie ? She goes back along the corridor the way she came from. Near the place where she left the wheelbarrow, she comes to a door marked «Storage», and opens it
HEDRA: Hey, here you are. But this is just a closet full of various junk. Hedra thinks she heard something and quickly turns around. She takes a big iron hook from the storage closet and starts walking menacingly along the corridor.
HEDRA: Don't make me come get you. Allie, come out now. Come on. Allie !. She bangs the hook on a vertical pipe on the wall. Close up on a rat scuttling away from the noise. Close up on Allie hidden in a big metal box, near the ceiling of the basement. This metal box is obviously a part of the ventilation system. HEDRA ( voice over ) Come on ! The rat is running along a large horizontal pipe towards Allison, who seems frightened by it. High angle shot of Hedra seen from Allison's hiding place. HEDRA ( screaming ) Come out now ! Close up on Allison's face, frightened by the rat. Reverse angle close up shot of the rat coming towards us and Back to Allison looking at the rat. HEDRA ( voice over ) Allie, please. High angle shot of Hedra. She is crying.
HEDRA: I'm scared ! Where are you ? The rat has reached Allison's hiding place. She pushes it down from the pipe where it was standing. The rat falls on Hedra's shoulder. She screams. Allison hides back into the ventilation metal box not to be seen by Hedra. Hedra throws the rat on the floor. The rat runs away. Hedra looks up at the place where the rat fell from. Close up at Allison's hiding place. The metal box seems empty. HEDRA ( voice over ) ALLISON'S BUILDING - INCINERATOR ROOM - INTERIOR DAY Hedra comes back into the incinerator room. Just above the open door of the incinerator, there is a big ventilation metal box, similar to the one Allison is hiding in. Hedra bangs the box with her hook. She must think that Allison is crawling inside the ventilation system.
HEDRA: Why are you hiding from me ? Close up on a big wooden closet with two doors. A piece of green fabric is sticking out between the two closed doors. Hedra bangs her hook on the closet.
HEDRA: You think I can't find you ? Huh ? Your goddam shirt is sticking out of it. She opens the door, sees herself in a mirror at the back of the closet, and thinking it's Allison, bangs her hook on the mirror and breaks it. Hedra backs up one step from the closet. And suddenly, Allison, who was hiding in the pipework on the ceiling, falls down upside down, hanging from her legs hooked in the pipework. She stabs Hedra in the back with the elevator screwdriver. Hedra screams, and tries to take the screwdriver off her back. Allison drops on the floor. Hedra tries to hit her with the hook, but Allison grabs her arm. With her other free hand, Allison pulls the screwdriver out of Hedra's back, then immediately sticks it again in another place on Hedra's back.
HEDRA: Hedra slowly falls on the floor, where she remains motionless. Allison looks down at her, trying to catch her breath back. She kneels down to close Hedra's eyelids.
BLACK SCREEN: ALLISON ( voice over ) I cried the whole week of Sam's funeral.
CREDITS: The credit are rolling up on the picture of Hedra / Allison for about 25 seconds, then fade-out to black screen, where the end of the credits are rolling up. Writers : Don Roos John Lutz
