ANNA: It's getting cold. MALCOLM CROWE sits on the floor at the coffee table, his vest and tie on the sofa behind him. A jacket and an overcoat lay on a brirfcase next to him. Malcolm is in his thirties with thick, wavy hair and striking, intelligent eyes that squint from years of intense study. His charming, easy-going smile spreads across his face. He points.
MALCOLM: That's one fine frame. A fine frame it is. Malcolm points to the HUGE FRAMED CERTIFICATE propped up on a dining room chair. It's printed on aged parchment-type paper. The frame is a polished mahogany. He slips on the sweatshirt.
MALCOLM: How much does a fine frame like that cost, you think? Anna hands the backup bottle over to Malcolm.
ANNA: ( smiling ) I've never told you. but you sound a little like Dr. Seuss when you're drunk. Malcolm uncorks the wine and starts pouring in the empty glass.
MALCOLM: Anna, I'm serious. Serious I am, Anna giggles. She's clearly buzzed herself. Malcolm doesn't get it. Anna takes a few calming sips of her wine. Her attention slowly moves to the framed certificate.
ANNA: Mahogany. I'd say that cost at least a couple hundred. Maybe Three? We should hock it. Buy a C.D. rack for the bedroom.
MALCOLM: Three? We should hock it. Buy a C.D. rack for the bedroom.
ANNA: Do you know how important this is? This is big time. I'm going to read it for you, Do I really sound like Dr. Seuss? Anna ignores Malcolm and clears her throat. She leans forward her seat and reads the certificate out loud as Malcolm tries to tickle her.
MALCOLM: Do I really sound like Dr. Seuss? Anna ignores Malcolm and clears her throat. She leans forward her seat and reads the certificate out loud as Malcolm tries to tickle her.
ANNA: In recognition for his outstanding achievement in the field of child psychology, his dedication to his work, and his continuing efforts to improve the quality of life for countless children and their families, the City of Philadelphia proudly bestows upon its son Dr. Malcolm Crowe. That's you. the Mayor's Citation for Professional Excellence. Beat. The power of the words sobers the two of them.
ANNA: Wow. They called you their son.
MALCOLM: We can keep it in the bathroom. Anna turns to Malcolm. He smiles.
MALCOLM: It's not real, Anna. Some secretary wrote that up. Don't tell me you thought it was real? Anna's expression becomes serious.
MALCOLM: She just keeps staring. Beat.
MALCOLM: Don't do the quiet thing. You know I hate it. This is an important night for us. Finally someone is recognizing the sacrifices you made. That you have put everything second, including me, for those families they're talking Malcolm plays softly with her face. Anna takes his hands and holds them steady.
ANNA: This is an important night for us. Finally someone is recognizing the sacrifices you made. That you have put everything second, including me, for those families they're talking Malcolm plays softly with her face. Anna takes his hands and holds them steady.
ANNA: They're also saying that my husband has a gift. Not an ordinary gift that allows him to hit a ball over a fence. Or a gift that lets him produce beautiful images on a canvas. Your gift teaches children how to be strong in situations where most adults would piss on themselves. Yes, I believe what they wrote about you. Anna lets go of his hands. Anna's eyes are emotional. Malcolm smiles softly.
MALCOLM: Thank you. Anna leans towards him. They hold each other tight. Beat.
MALCOLM: What are we hugging about again? Anna laughs as she wipes her eyes.
ANNA: Nothing. There wasn't supposed to be any crying at this celebration. Just a lot of drinking and sex. Malcolm's charming, easy-going smile returns.
MALCOLM: I would like some red wine in a Anna hands him his glass. He stares at it.
MALCOLM: I would not like it in a mug. I would not like it in a jug. Malcolm looks at Anna surprised at what he said. They crack up laughing. THEIR SWEET LAUGHTER FILLS THE HOUSE.
MALCOLM: Bulb's out. Anna giggles some more as Malcolm's shadow stumbles across the MALCOLM TURNS ON THE BATHROOM LIGHT. A SHAFT OF LIGHT falls on Anna as she stands in the corner of the Anna smiles playfully and pulls off her sweater. She sways to a pretend striptease song. Malcolm can't hold back his grin. He joins in slowly peeling off the sweat-shirt. He looks back to Anna. She's stopped her playful dance. She's facing away from him. He walks towards her. HIS GRIN QUIETLY DISAPPEARS. Malcolm's face turns to rock as his attention is drawn to the SHATTERED WINDOW in their bedroom. The wind moves through the room. A lamp lays broken on the ground by the window. Malcolm kneels down. Beat. Anna's eyes fill with a quiet He's still in the house.
ANNA: He's still in the house.
MALCOLM: Anna, don't move. Don't say a word. Anna barely nods her understanding.
MALCOLM: ( to the stranger ) This is forty-seven Locust Street. You have broken a window and entered a private residence. Do you understand what I'm saying? The stranger slowly looks up for the first time. His eyes lock on Malcolm.
STRANGER: You don't know so many things. There are no needles or prescription drugs of any kind in this house. The stranger suddenly comes forward into the doorway. Malcolm stumbles back onto the edge of the bed. Anna sees the stranger for the first time. Her face drains of The stranger looks at Malcolm. He half grins.
MALCOLM: There are no needles or prescription drugs of any kind in this house. The stranger suddenly comes forward into the doorway. Malcolm stumbles back onto the edge of the bed. Anna sees the stranger for the first time. Her face drains of The stranger looks at Malcolm. He half grins.
STRANGER: Are you drunk? The stranger's stare slides to Anna.
STRANGER: Did you get him drunk? The stranger gazes at Anna. Gazes directly into her eyes. A penetrating, unwavering stare.
STRANGER: Do you know why you're scared when you're alone? Anna's expression instanly changes.
STRANGER: I know.
MALCOLM: What do you want? I don't understand what you want. The stranger turns and glares at Malcolm.
STRANGER: What you promised. Malcolm stops all movement.
ANNA: My God.
MALCOLM: Do I know you?
STRANGER: Let's all celebrate, Dr. Malcolm Crowe. Recipient of awards from the Mayor on the news. Dr. Malcolm Crowe, he's helped so many children. And he doesn't even remember my Malcolm can't speak. Beat. The stranger's face starts to I was ten when you worked with me. Beat. Malcolm's intelligent eyes race for answers.
STRANGER: I was ten when you worked with me. Beat. Malcolm's intelligent eyes race for answers.
STRANGER: Downtown clinic? Single parent I had a possible mood disorder. I had no friends. you said I was socially isolated. I was afraid you called it acute You were wrong. Come on, clear your head. Male, nine. Single parent. Mood discorder. Acute anxiety. Malcolm looks like someone hit him with a sledgehammer.
STRANGER: I'm nineteen. I have drugs in my system twenty-four hours a day. I still have no friends. I still have no peace. I'm still afraid. Tears jump into the stranger's eyes.
STRANGER: .I'm still afraid. Malcolm stands.
MALCOLM: Please give me a second to think. Malcolm's shaking hands touch his mouth as he stares at the stranger. Beat.
MALCOLM: Bed Freidken?
STRANGER: Some people call me freak.
MALCOLM: .Ronald. Ronald Sumner? Tears fall down the stranger's face.
STRANGER: I am a freak. Malcolm looks up at the sound of those words. Something clicks in his head.
MALCOLM: THE ROOM GOES SILENT AGAIN. VINCENT GRAY stares with surprise through his tears. Malcolm lets out a deep breath like he just emerged from deep Vincent's eyes burn at Malcolm.
MALCOLM: Vincent Gray? VINCENT GRAY stares with surprise through his tears. Malcolm lets out a deep breath like he just emerged from deep I do remember you, Vincent. You were a good kid. Very smart. Quiet. Compassionate. Unusually compassionate. Vincent's eyes burn at Malcolm.
MALCOLM: I do remember you, Vincent. You were a good kid. Very smart. Quiet. Compassionate. Unusually compassionate. Vincent's eyes burn at Malcolm.
VINCENT: You forgot cursed. VINCENT is fully crying now.
VINCENT: You failed me.
MALCOLM: ( whispers ) Vincent. I'm sorry I didn't help you. I can try to help you now. Vincent turns to the sink. His hand goes in. He turns arund and raises a gun at Malcolm. He FIRES. A VIOLENT, EAR-SHATTERING ECHO. Malcolm clutches his stomach and folds like a rag doll onto the bed. Vincent instantly moves the gun to his own head. ANOTHER HORRIFIC BLAST SPIKES THE AIR. Vincent crumples onto the bathroom floor.
COLE: ( soft ) Pro. Fun. Add. The words are unintelligible. Cole senses someone. He looks up and sees Malcolm staring at him. The boy immediately goes white. Every cell of his body still with fear.
MALCOLM: It's okay, Cole. Don't be Cole stays rigid. Hands clutching a handful of plastic riflemen.
MALCOLM: My name is Dr. Malcolm Crowe. I was supposed to meet you today. Sorry I missed our appointment. Malcolm waits for a response. None comes.
MALCOLM: Do you mind if I sit down? I have this injury from a couple of years ago and it flares up every once in a while just so I won't forget it. Beat. Cole slowly slides down the pew, giving Malcolm most of the seat. Malcolm sits. Cole fidgets with his soldiers. Beat. Malcolm looks over and stares at Cole's glasses. He leans forward to inspect them more Your eye frames. They don't seem to have any lenses in them.
MALCOLM: Your eye frames. They don't seem to have any lenses in them.
COLE: ( soft ) They're my dad's. The lenses hurt my eyes.
MALCOLM: I knew there was a sound explanation. Malcolm returns to staring at his lap. Beat.
MALCOLM: What was that you were saying before with your soldiers? Day pro .De profundis clamo ad te domine. Malcolm stares surprised.
COLE: .De profundis clamo ad te domine. Malcolm stares surprised.
COLE: It's called Latin. It's a Malcolm nods at the information.
MALCOLM: All your soldiers speak Latin?
COLE: No, just one. Malcolm smiles at Cole. His eyes drift down to Cole's arms. Malcolm's smile slowly disappears. Cole's arms are covered in TINY CUTS AND BRUISES. Some almost healed. Some fresh. Malcolm looks around to gather himself. I like churches, too. In olden times, in Europe, people used to hide in churches. Claim Cole looks up.
MALCOLM: I like churches, too. In olden times, in Europe, people used to hide in churches. Claim Cole looks up.
COLE: What were they hiding from?
MALCOLM: Oh, lots of things, I suppose. Bad people for one. People who wanted to imprison them. Hurt them.
COLE: Nothing bad can happen in a church, Malcolm studies Cole's anxious face.
MALCOLM: Malcolm and Cole just stare at each other.
COLE: I forgot your name.
MALCOLM: Dr. Crowe.
COLE: You're a doctor. What kind?
MALCOLM: I work with young people who might be sad or upset or just want to talk. I try to help them figure things out. Are you a good doctor? Malcolm smiles.
COLE: Are you a good doctor? Malcolm smiles.
MALCOLM: I got an award once. From the Thank you. It was a long time ago. I've kind of been retired for a You're my very first client back.
COLE: Thank you. It was a long time ago. I've kind of been retired for a You're my very first client back.
MALCOLM: Thank you. It was a long time ago. I've kind of been retired for a You're my very first client back.
COLE: You use needles?
MALCOLM: Not even little ones that aren't supposed to hurt?
COLE: Not even little ones that aren't supposed to hurt?
MALCOLM: That's good. Cole pockets his soldiers and rises from his pew.
COLE: That's good. Cole pockets his soldiers and rises from his pew.
COLE: I'm going to see you again, right?
MALCOLM: If it's okay with you? Cole thinks it over carefully.
COLE: It's okay with me. Cole and Malcolm just stare at each other.
MALCOLM: And Cole, next time I won't be late for you.
COLE: Next time I won't be scared of you. Cole turns and starts to the rear of the church. Malcolm loses himself in his thoughts. When Malcolm looks back, he sees Cole stop by the exit doors and take a tiny STATUE OF JESUS off the back table. Cole pockets the statue and quietly leaves the church. Malcolm just sits and stares.
MALCOLM: It's me. He stops before a pile of mail collecting on a thin table. He stares at it blankly. Almost every envelope has "Over Due" or "Final Notice" stamped on it.
MALCOLM: ( whispers ) .The mass for the dead. The words seem to hang in the air forever.
LYNN: She closes them one at a time before moving to the coffee machine. Lynn shivers a little. She leans over the thermostat and raises the heat. She returns to her post at the coffee machine.
LYNN: Your Cocoa Puffs are getting soggy. Lynn walks over to Cole. Checks his tie.
LYNN: You got a spot. Lynn unclips the tie. Cole takes a seat at the kitchen table as Lynn walks back into the laundry room. The dog is gone now. Lynn reaches into the dryer, digging for a new tie. She finds one, then turns and steps back into the kitchen and SCREAMS AT THE TOP OF HER LUNGS. Every cabinet and every drawer is wide open. Cole sits at the kitchen table. His hands are pressed flat on the tabletop. He looks shaken. Neither says anything for a beat.
LYNN: ( shaken ) Something you were looking for, ( shaken ) Pop Tarts. Lynn looks over to the open cabinet near the sink. The pop tarts are clearly visible.
COLE: ( shaken ) Pop Tarts. Lynn looks over to the open cabinet near the sink. The pop tarts are clearly visible.
LYNN: They're right here.
COLE: Cole gets up from the table. Takes his pop tarts. Doesn't make eye contact.
COLE: What are you thinking, Momma?
LYNN: Lots of things.
COLE: Anything bad about me? Lynn leans down.
LYNN: Look at my face. Cole does.
LYNN: I wasn't thinking anything bad about you, got it? He looks at her eyes. Beat.
COLE: Got it.
COLE: ( soft ) That's Tommy, Momma. Cole quietly kisses his mother on the cheek and starts out.
LYNN: Don't you want this? Cole turns to see Lynn holding the pop tarts. He walks back and takes them from her before leaving. Beat. Lynn glances to the kitchen table. Her gaze stops on the TWO TINY HAND PRINTS OF SWEAT formed on the table's surface. Lynn stands motionless in the kitchen. She looks up and wraps her arms around her shivering shoulders.
TOMMY: Hey freak, how'd you like the "arm around your shoulder" bit. I just made it up. Went with it. That's what great actors do. It's called Tommy starts to run ahead, he turns and back pedals.
TOMMY: ( taunting ) Be careful. I hope no one jumps out and gets you. Tommy runs away. Beat. Cole looks around nervously.
LYNN: ( whispers ) How was school, baby? Cole shrugs.
LYNN: ( whispers ) You know, you can tell me things if you need to. Cole doesn't respond. Beat.
LYNN: ( whispers ) Well, you know what I did today? Cole shakes his head "No."
LYNN: ( whispers ) I won the Pennsylvania Lottery in the morning. I quit my jobs. Ate a big picnic in the park with lots of chocolate mouses pie and then swam in the fountain all afternoon. ( smiling ) What did you do? Cole starts to smile too. He thinks.
COLE: ( whispers ) I was picked first for kickball teams at recess. I hit a grand slam to win the game and everyone lifted me up on their shoulders and carried me around cheering. Cole and Lynn smile at each other. Beat. Lynn tries to hide the utter sadness behind her smile.
LYNN: I'll make triangle pancakes. You got an hour. Lynn takes Cole's school bag and jacket before moving to the INT. DEN - AFTERNOON The den doubles as a playroom. Boxes of old toys sit in the corner. A small, plastic, multi-colored table sits on the rug. Cole appears in the doorway. Malcolm sits up and smiles. He points to the chair on the other side of the coffee table.
MALCOLM: You want to sit? Cole nods very softly, "No."
MALCOLM: Don't feel like talking right now? Cole nods again very softly, "No."
MALCOLM: How about we play a game first? Cole looks a little more interested.
MALCOLM: It's a mind-reading game. Did I mention I could read minds? Cole nods, "No."
MALCOLM: Here's the game. I'll read your mind. If what I say is right, you take a step forwards the chair. If I'm wrong, you take a step backwards the doorway. If you reach the chair, you sit. If you reach the door, you can go. Deal? Cole tilts his head, then nods, "Yes." Malcolm presses his fingers to his temples like a vaudeville magician. He closes his eyes tight.
MALCOLM: Just after your mom and dad were divorced, your mom went to a doctor like me and it didn't help her. And so you think I'm not going to help you. Beat. Cole, surprised, takes a small step forward.
MALCOLM: You're worried because she said she told him things. Things she couldn't tell anybody else. Cole takes a step. Malcolm opens his eyes. He looks right at You have a secret. But you don't want to tell me. Beat. Cole takes another step. The next step will put him at the chair. Malcolm lowers his fingers from his temple.
MALCOLM: You have a secret. But you don't want to tell me. Beat. Cole takes another step. The next step will put him at the chair. Malcolm lowers his fingers from his temple.
MALCOLM: ( whispers ) You don't have to tell me your secret if you don't want to. Malcolm smiles. Returns his fingers to the mind-reading position. Malcolm looks to Cole's arm. Cole is wearing A LARGE SILVER WATCH. It swims on his thin wrist. It could probably slide up to his shoulder. Malcolm closes his eyes.
MALCOLM: Your father gave you that watch as a present before he left. Cole takes a step BACK. Beat. Malcolm lowers his hands He forgot it in a drawer. It doesn't work. Beat. Malcolm puts his fingers to his temple. This time a little bit slower. He gazes at Cole's school uniform.
COLE: He forgot it in a drawer. It doesn't work. Beat. Malcolm puts his fingers to his temple. This time a little bit slower. He gazes at Cole's school uniform.
MALCOLM: You don't like to say much at school. You're an excellent student however. You've never been in any kind of serious trouble. Beat. Cole takes a slow step back. Beat.
COLE: We were supposed to draw a picture. Anything we wanted. I drew a man. He got hurt in the neck by another man with a screwdriver.
MALCOLM: You saw that on T.V., Cole? Cole answers by taking a small step back. Beat.
COLE: Everybody got upset. They had a meeting. Momma started crying. I don't draw like that anymore.
MALCOLM: How do you draw now?
COLE: I draw people with smiles, dogs running, and rainbows. They don't have meetings about I guess they don't. Malcolm looks down at Cole's feet. They're almost at the doorway. One more step and he's there. Cole is very still. He doesn't move at all.
MALCOLM: ( soft ) I guess they don't. Malcolm looks down at Cole's feet. They're almost at the doorway. One more step and he's there. Cole is very still. He doesn't move at all.
COLE: ( whispers ) What am I thinking now? Malcolm takes his time before speaking. He just stares. No fingers to the temple. No games. He just stares. Beat.
MALCOLM: You're thinking. I don't know what you're thinking, Cole quietly takes a step back into the doorway of the other room.
COLE: ( whispers ) I was thinking. you're nice. ( beat ) But you can't help me. Cole's tiny figure steps away. Malcolm stares helplessly at the empty doorway where his client used to stand.
MALCOLM: I thought you meant the other Italian restaurant I asked you to marry me in. Anna isn't laughing. Not even close.
MALCOLM: I'm so sorry. I can't seem to keep track of time. Anna quietly takes a sip from her coffee.
MALCOLM: It didn't go well today. Spent some time after trying to get my head together. Anna looks around for the waiter.
MALCOLM: They're so similar, Anna. They have the same mannerisms. The same expressions. The same thing hanging over them. It might be some kind of abuse. That makes Anna turn back. She glances across the table, then looks down.
MALCOLM: There are cuts on Cole's arms. Fingernail marks, I think. Looks like defensive cuts. Malcolm demonstrates by holding up his arm to shield his face.
MALCOLM: ( beat ) Possibly a teacher, neighbor. ( beat ) I don't think it's the mother. Just a gut thing. The way she deals with him. It doesn't fit. ( beat ) Hard to say this early. Could just be a child climbing a lot of Malcolm loses himself in his thoughts. The waiter drops off the check on the table. Anna grabs it before Malcolm and quickly signs it.
MALCOLM: I know I've been kind of out of it for a long while and you resent it. You do. I know you're mad. I know it's put some distance between us. But I'm getting a second chance here. I can't let it slip away. Anna waits till he's done and rises from the table. She pushes her chair in hard and walks away without a word. Malcolm sits alone and stares at the piece of cake with a candle on it.
MALCOLM: But I'm getting a second chance here. I can't let it slip away. Anna waits till he's done and rises from the table. She pushes her chair in hard and walks away without a word. Malcolm sits alone and stares at the piece of cake with a candle on it.
MALCOLM: ( soft ) .Happy Anniversary.
COLE: You want to ask me a question?
MALCOLM: See, this is why I lose at poker. Yes, I do have a question. On the step are two rows of soldiers facing each other. To one side are a couple soldiers covered by a tissue. Malcolm points to them.
MALCOLM: What happened to those two? Being under tissue paper can't be a good Cole removes the tissue.
COLE: That's Private Jenkins and Private Kinney. They got killed. Private Jenkins has a baby girl that was born seven pounds, six ounces. He's never seen her. He wanted to get back to Blue Bell, Pennsylvania and hold her. Cole points to the other soldier.
COLE: Private Kinney's wife is really sick she has something called a brain anism.
MALCOLM: ( soft ) You mean aneurysm.
COLE: Yeah, Private Kinney needed to get back safe to take care of her. Beat. Cole's face becomes emotional. Tears fill his eyes.
COLE: It's sad they died, isn't it? Malcolm falls into silence and stares at his client. Beat. Cole wipes his eyes quickly.
COLE: Don't look at me. I don't like people looking at me like that. Malcolm takes in Cole's gesture and expression.
COLE: Stop looking at me. Malcolm looks down.
MALCOLM: Where should I look then, Cole?
COLE: Look over there. Cole points to the corner of the street. Malcolm slowly turns. He sits in profile to Cole. Beat.
MALCOLM: It's very unusual for someone your age to understand the kind of problems that Private Jenkins and Private Kinney have or even to be thinking about them at all. Malcolm continues to stare at the street. Beat.
MALCOLM: It is okay if I look back now? Cole doesn't answer.
MALCOLM: Tap the foot once for "No" and twice for "Yes." Cole taps his foot once. Malcolm sits patiently. Beat. They don't say anything for a You wouldn't want to take a walk, would you? Cole looks up from his soldiers. Malcolm stares at the far side of the street. Cole taps his foot twice.
MALCOLM: You wouldn't want to take a walk, would you? Cole looks up from his soldiers. Malcolm stares at the far side of the street. Cole taps his foot twice.
COLE: I walk this way to school with Tommy Tammisimo.
MALCOLM: He your best buddy? Cole almost smiles.
COLE: He hates me.
MALCOLM: You hate him? Cole shakes his head, "No.! Malcolm thinks for a bit.
MALCOLM: Your mom set that up? Cole nods "Yes."
MALCOLM: You ever tell her about how it is with Tommy?
COLE: I don't tell her a thing.
MALCOLM: Cause she doesn't look at me like everybody and I don't want her to. I don't want her to know.
COLE: Cause she doesn't look at me like everybody and I don't want her to. I don't want her to know.
MALCOLM: Know what?
COLE: That I'm a freak. Malcolm stops walking. The words hit him hard. He stares at Listen to me. You are not a freak. Don't you believe anybody that tells you that. It's bullshit and you don't have to grow up believing Beat. Cole is surprised.
MALCOLM: Listen to me. You are not a freak. Don't you believe anybody that tells you that. It's bullshit and you don't have to grow up believing Beat. Cole is surprised.
COLE: You said the "s" word.
MALCOLM: Yeah. Sorry. Malcolm's face is filled with emotion. Cole is suddenly hit by Malcolm's passion. Beat. Cole nods slowly as he looks at Malcolm with different eyes. They start walking again in silence. They turn a corner and move down another street. Cole spots an old man with a cane standing at the gate of a brownstone.
COLE: Is it okay if I do something? I have to do something. Malcolm nods "yes" as they continue walking. Cole slows as they approach the old man. As we get closer, we make out the man can barely see.
COLE: Hi, Mr. Marschal. MR. MARSCHAL leans over his gate and stares at Cole for a few Guten Tag, Cole. Mr. Marschal has a thick German accent. The old man squints down the block with a concerned expression.
MR. MARSCHAL: Guten Tag, Cole. Mr. Marschal has a thick German accent. The old man squints down the block with a concerned expression.
COLE: What's wrong?
MR. MARSCHAL: Mrs. Marschal. She went food shopping. She's running late. Ich Habe Durst. Malcolm's eyes dart to Cole.
COLE: Ich Habe Durst. Malcolm's eyes dart to Cole.
MR. MARSCHAL: Wunderbar! Where did you learn to speak German?
COLE: I just know a couple lines.
MR. MARSCHAL: Yes, you may have a drink. What would you like?
COLE: Lemonade, please. Mr. Marschal smiles at Cole before walking back inside his house. Cole turns back to Malcolm.
COLE: ( sad ) Mr. Marschal gets real lonely.
MALCOLM: What about Mrs. Marschal?
COLE: ( whispers ) She died a long time ago.
MR. MARSCHAL: Maybe Jill will play for us when she gets back. Cole turns to find Mr. Marschal standing with a glass of lemonade. Cole takes it from his shaking hands.
COLE: Thank you. Mr. Marschal shuffles over to the sofa. Takes a seat. Cole begins surveying the room again. Beat. His eyes finally come to rest on a plant seated in the corner. He stares at it.
MALCOLM: MR. MARSCHAL What's going on there? Mr. Marschal strains to see across the room. Cole doesn't answer either of them. Instead, he continues to push the plant aside revealing AN AIR VENT. Cole gently reaches over and takes off the metal face. It slips right off. Cole's hands disappear into the darkness of the vent. They reemerge holding a STACK OF NOTEBOOKS. Malcolm becomes very still. Cole rises to his feet and carries the notebooks over to Mr. Marschal. Cole carefully places them on his lap.
MR. MARSCHAL: What's going on there? Mr. Marschal strains to see across the room. Cole doesn't answer either of them. Instead, he continues to push the plant aside revealing AN AIR VENT. Cole gently reaches over and takes off the metal face. It slips right off. Cole's hands disappear into the darkness of the vent. They reemerge holding a STACK OF NOTEBOOKS. Malcolm becomes very still. Cole rises to his feet and carries the notebooks over to Mr. Marschal. Cole carefully places them on his lap.
MR. MARSCHAL: Is this for me? Mr. Marschal fingers the notebooks then reaches for his thick glasses hanging from his neck. He places them on the tip of his nose and inspects the notebooks six inches from his face.
MR. MASCHAL: What's this? Jill's keeping a Malcolm takes an involuntary step forward. Mr. Marschal starts flipping through the notebooks.
MR. MARSCHAL: She's full of surprises. He gets to the last book. His hands become still as he stares at the final page of writing.
MR. MARSCHAL: ( whispers ) She hasn't written anything for some time. Beat. Mr. Marschal slowly looks up from the notebooks. Looks up to Cole. Cole just stands quietly. Mr. Marschal's eyes slowly fill with tears of realization. They gently spill down his weathered face.
MR. MARSCHAL: Oh no. Cole takes a deep breath. Trying hard not to cry himself. The sight of Mr. Marschal weeping shakes Cole. Cole softly lays his hand on Mr. Marschal's silver hair. Mr. Marschal reaches up and clutches his small hand. They stay like that for a while. Beat. Mr. Marschal lets go and brings the notebooks tighter to his body. Cole quietly walks to Malcolm who stands motionless. He stares down at Cole in a daze. Cole turns his head, crying.
COLE: ( softly ) Stop looking at me.
MALCOLM: April or March of Eighty-seven. Two weeks into sessions with Vincent Gray. I was treating a couple, Donald and Robin Wagner, who had lost their child to Leukemia. They were waiting with Vincent in the reception room of the downtown clinic. They were alone together maybe fifteen minutes. When I entered the room, all three were crying. The Wagner's progress from that afternoon was dramatic and sudden .. As if some door had been opened for them. I'm not at all clear what happened in those fifteen minutes. But I now believe Vincent tried to tell me something, show me something and I didn't listen. Cole Sear allowed me to witness something today. This time I'm going to listen. A long silence. CLICK. The tape recorder turns off.
MALCOLM: .So your dad lives in Pittsburgh with a lady who works in a toll What if she has to pee when she's working? You think she just holds I don't know. I was just thinking the same thing. You ask a lot of questions about my dad today. How come? Cole is playing behind the couch. All we see is the top of his Sometimes, we don't even know it, but we do things to draw attention. Do things so we can express how we feel about issues. Divorce or Every now and then we get glimpses of things Cole is playing with peeking over the back of the couch, but we can't quite make out what he's doing.
MALCOLM: I don't know. I was just thinking the same thing. You ask a lot of questions about my dad today. How come? Cole is playing behind the couch. All we see is the top of his Sometimes, we don't even know it, but we do things to draw attention. Do things so we can express how we feel about issues. Divorce or Every now and then we get glimpses of things Cole is playing with peeking over the back of the couch, but we can't quite make out what he's doing.
MALCOLM: Sometimes, we don't even know it, but we do things to draw attention. Do things so we can express how we feel about issues. Divorce or Every now and then we get glimpses of things Cole is playing with peeking over the back of the couch, but we can't quite make out what he's doing.
MALCOLM: One night, as an example. leave something on a desk for someone to The top of Cole's head stops moving.
MALCOLM: Cole, have you ever heard of something called free-writing? Or free-association writing? Cole shakes his head, "No."
MALCOLM: It's when you put a pencil in your hand and put the pencil to a paper and you just start writing. You don't think about what you're writing. You don't read over what you're writing. You just keep your hand moving. Cole has become very still. He looks right at Malcolm.
MALCOLM: After awhile if you keep your hand moving long enough, words and thoughts start coming out you didn't even know you had in you. Sometimes they're things you heard from somewhere. Sometimes they're feelings deep inside. Have you ever done any free- association writing, Cole? Beat. Cole nods, "Yes."
MALCOLM: What'd you write?
COLE: What kind of words?
MALCOLM: What kind of words?
COLE: Upset words. Did you ever write any upset words before your father left? I don't remember. Malcolm watches him carefully. Beat. Malcolm waves the question off casually.
MALCOLM: Did you ever write any upset words before your father left? I don't remember. Malcolm watches him carefully. Beat. Malcolm waves the question off casually.
COLE: I don't remember. Malcolm watches him carefully. Beat. Malcolm waves the question off casually.
MALCOLM: Can you do something for me? Malcolm smiles. He rises and grabs his coat.
MALCOLM: Think about what you want from our time together. What our goal should be?
COLE: Something I want?
MALCOLM: If we could change something in your life, anything at all, what would you like that to be? Cole's brow furrows as he thinks about it carefully.
MALCOLM: You don't have to answer now. Malcolm heads for the door, stops when Cole emerges from behind the couch. Cole is wearing his father's jacket, it hangs to the ground like a dress.
COLE: Instead of something I want, can I have something I don't want? Malcolm turns back to Cole. Malcolm nods "Yes." Beat.
COLE: I don't want to be scared anymore. Cole's sad eyes stare up at Malcolm.
MALCOLM: ( loud ) Are you calling me?
MALCOLM: ( under his breath ) Give it up, kid. Malcolm turns away from the window as Sean's car starts up and pulls away from Malcolm's house.
MR. CUNNINGHAM: Can anyone guess what city was the capital of the United States of America from 1790 to 1800? Mr. Cunningham turns and stares at his class of eight and nine year old private school students. They stare back at him blankly. Cole rests his chin on his desk and watches the class with big .I'll give you a hint, it's the city you live in. The class says the answer in unison.
MR. CUNNINGHAM: .I'll give you a hint, it's the city you live in. The class says the answer in unison.
CLASS: MR. CUNNINGHAM Right. Philadelphia is one of the oldest cities in the country. A lot of generations have lived and died in this city. Almost every place you visit has a history and a story behind it. ( beat ) Even this school and the grounds they sit on. Can anyone guess what this building was used for a hundred years ago, before you went here, before I went to this school Stanley Cunningham looks over the class of blank faces. He's just about to answer his own question when he sees a hand go up. Mr. Cunningham looks surprised to see who it is.
MR. CUNNINGHAM: Right. Philadelphia is one of the oldest cities in the country. A lot of generations have lived and died in this city. Almost every place you visit has a history and a story behind it. Even this school and the grounds they sit on. Can anyone guess what this building was used for a hundred years ago, before you went here, before I went to this school Stanley Cunningham looks over the class of blank faces. He's just about to answer his own question when he sees a hand go up. Mr. Cunningham looks surprised to see who it is.
MR. CUNNINGHAM: Yes, Cole?
COLE: They used to hang people here. Mr. Cunningham furrows his brow. Beat.
MR. CUNNINGHAM: That's not correct. Where'd you hear that?
COLE: They'd pull the people in crying and kissing their families bye. People watching would spit at them. Cole, this was a legal courthouse. Laws were passed here. Some of the first laws of this country. This building was full of lawyers. They were the ones who hanged Mr. Cunningham chuckles. Cole's face turns cement grey.
MR. CUNNINGHAM: Cole, this was a legal courthouse. Laws were passed here. Some of the first laws of this country. This building was full of lawyers. They were the ones who hanged Mr. Cunningham chuckles. Cole's face turns cement grey.
COLE: They were the ones who hanged Mr. Cunningham chuckles. Cole's face turns cement grey.
MR. CUNNINGHAM: I don't know which one of these guys told you that, but they were just trying to scare you, I think. Tommy Tammisimo leads the class in a wave of snickering. Cole glances up. Sees all the eyes on him. He glances at the teacher who is still staring.
COLE: I don't like people looking at me like that.
MR. CUNNINGHAM: Like what?
COLE: Stop it! Mr. Cunningham sees the traumatized expression on Cole's face and instantly stops smiling.
MR. CUNNINGHAM: I don't know how else to look
COLE: You're a stuttering Stanley! Mr. Cunningham's face becomes still. So does the classroom.
MR. CUNNINGHAM: Excuse me?
COLE: You talked funny when you went to school here. You talked funny all the way to high school! The class falls into stunned silence. Mr. Cunningham takes an involuntary step towards Cole's desk.
MR. CUNNINGHAM: You shouldn't laugh at people. It makes them feel bad. Mr. Cunningham moves closer to Cole.
COLE: You shouldn't laugh at people. It makes them feel bad. Mr. Cunningham moves closer to Cole.
MR. CUNNINGHAM: How did you?
COLE: Stop looking at me. Cole covers his eyes with his hands.
MR. CUNNINGHAM: Who have you been s-speaking to? We see Cole's mouth under his covered eyes.
COLE: Stuttering Stanley! Stuttering Mr. Cunningham is standing right over Cole's desk now.
MR. CUNNINGHAM: Mr. Cunningham is standing right over Cole's desk now.
COLE: Stuttering Stanley!
MR. CUNNINGHAM: S-ssstop that!
COLE: Stuttering Stanley! Stuttering S-ssssstop it!
MR. CUNNINGHAM: S-ssssstop it!
COLE: MR. CUNNINGHAM Shhhhhhut upppp you fffffffreak! MR. CUNNINGHAM SLAMS HIS HAND ON COLE'S DESK. Cole's hands drop from his eyes. The teacher's face is burning red. The children in the room are frozen. Completely startled. Cole's eyes are filled with tears. Mr. Cunningham's expression drains of anger as Cole Sear begins to cry.
MR. CUNNINGHAM: Shhhhhhut upppp you fffffffreak! MR. CUNNINGHAM SLAMS HIS HAND ON COLE'S DESK. Cole's hands drop from his eyes. The teacher's face is burning red. The children in the room are frozen. Completely startled. Cole's eyes are filled with tears. Mr. Cunningham's expression drains of anger as Cole Sear begins to cry.
MALCOLM: Hey, big guy. Cole stares for a second.
COLE: I don't want to talk about anything. Cole lowers his head. Malcolm just sits and thinks.
MALCOLM: Do you like magic? Cole's face softens a bit. He turns from the windows and looks to Malcolm. Beat. Cole nods, "Yes." Malcolm pulls out a penny from his pocket. He places it in his right hand.
MALCOLM: Watch the penny closely. Malcolm closes his hand around the penny.
MALCOLM: I do the magic shake. Malcolm shakes his hand in circles. Cole watches his hand And suddenly the penny has magically traveled to my left hand. Cole looks to Malcolm's closed left hand. Malcolm doesn't open But that's not the end of the trick. With another magic shake, the penny travels into my shirt pocket. Cole's eyes lock on Malcolm's shirt. Malcolm taps the pocket but doesn't open it.
MALCOLM: And suddenly the penny has magically traveled to my left hand. Cole looks to Malcolm's closed left hand. Malcolm doesn't open But that's not the end of the trick. With another magic shake, the penny travels into my shirt pocket. Cole's eyes lock on Malcolm's shirt. Malcolm taps the pocket but doesn't open it.
MALCOLM: But that's not the end of the trick. With another magic shake, the penny travels into my shirt pocket. Cole's eyes lock on Malcolm's shirt. Malcolm taps the pocket but doesn't open it.
MALCOLM: But that's still not the end!. I do a final magic shake. and suddenly. The penny returns to the hand where it started from. Malcolm opens his right hand. The penny sits quietly in the center of his palm. Cole looks at the penny and then up to Malcolm's face. Beat. Cole cracks a smile.
COLE: That isn't magic.
MALCOLM: You just kept the penny in that hand the whole time.
COLE: You just kept the penny in that hand the whole time.
MALCOLM: Who me? Malcolm smiles a mischievous smile. He places the penny on the table. Cole stares at it and then looks to Malcolm.
COLE: I didn't know you were funny.
MALCOLM: I forgot myself. Malcolm and Cole share a warm look.
MALCOLM: Cole looks at Malcolm.
MALCOLM: One day. You're going to sound just like Beat. Cole's chin starts to tremble. His voice cracks.
COLE: ( whispers ) ( whispers ) Malcolm and Cole sit in silence and listen to THE SOUND OF
MALCOLM: ( whispers ) Malcolm and Cole sit in silence and listen to THE SOUND OF
BRIDESMAID: ( T.V. ) No doubt about it. Anna's like my sister. You better make her happy. And I'm not talking about mmm this tastes like real butter kind of happy. I'm talking about Julie Andrews twirling around like a mental patient on a mountain top kind of happy.
BRIDESMAID: ( T.V. ) You're really lucky. She's got so much love for you. Don't tell her I told you, but she said she loved you from the first time she met you on the street. She'd do anything for you. ( crying ) I love you guys. ( more crying ) My nose is running. Why isn't someone getting me a tissue?
COLE: .Then you do the magic shake. And now the penny moves from my pocket all the way to the hand it started in. Cole smiles and holds out his hand. His fingers open to reveal the penny. Bobby stares.
BOBBY: That's stupid. Cole loses his smile.
COLE: It's supposed to be funny.
BOBBY: It's stupid. Cole and the overweight boy stare at each other.
BOBBY: Give me my penny back. Cole gives the boy his penny. Beat. Cole gazes at Bobby.
COLE: ( almost inaudible ) .Don't be sad. Bobby looks up sharply.
BOBBY: ( hard ) What'd you say?
COLE: ( shaken ) Bobby stares down at him before returning his attention to his tattered napkin. The two boys sit in silence.
LYNN: .He doesn't get invited places.
DARREN'S MOM: It's our pleasure.
LYNN: The last time was a Chuck E. Cheese party a year ago. He hid in one of those purple plastic tunnels and didn't come out.
DARREN'S MOM: Chuck E. who?
LYNN: Cheese. It's a kid's place. Darren's mom smiles formally and turns to give the catering people instructions on how to lay out the food on her sterling silver trays.
LYNN: He's my whole life. Darren's mom turns back to Lynn, the forced smile on her face.
LYNN: I work at an insurance place and at Penny's, so Cole can go to that good school.
DARREN'S MOM: J. C. Jenny's? Lynn nods "Yes."
DARREN'S MOM: ( bullshit ) Good for you.
LYNN: I wish I could be like my momma though. She always knew what was wrong. Knew just what to say. Darren's mom glances at her expensive watch.
LYNN: Cole's going through something bad. He won't talk to me. I'm his momma. And I don't know what's wrong and I don't know what to say. Lynn drowns in her thoughts. Cole moves away from the kitchen with sad eyes.
MRS. WESTON: Did you have the Brie?
MRS. SAUNDERS: It tasted like cheese whiz. They pass when Cole moves down the shiny mahogany wood hallway. The women's conversation FADES AWAY behind him. Cole turns a corner and comes to a dead stop. He turns white as he stares at an open CRAWL SPACE CLOSET a few feet away. Cole's eyes are riveted in the darkness of the closet. Beat.
TOMMY: I even got a trailer.
DARREN: For what? You only had one line.
TOMMY: You're slow, you know that. The star of the commercial always has his own trailer. You need to think about your character alone. Tommy glances down the hall and sees Cole standing frozen staring at the crawl space closet. Tommy grabs Darren.
TOMMY: Darren, check it out.
DARREN: My dad made me invite him. Tommy nudges Darren to move down the hall. Cole breaks from his trance as Tommy and Darren walk up.
COLE: Happy birthday, Darren.
TOMMY: Something you want to see in there? Tommy points to the crawl space.
COLE: ( too quick ) Beat. Tommy looks to Darren and then back to Cole.
TOMMY: We're going to put on a pretend play. You want to be in it? It's called, "Locked in the Dungeon." Tommy stares at Darren. Darren finally gets it.
COLE: It's called, "Locked in the Dungeon." Tommy stares at Darren. Darren finally gets it.
TOMMY: It's called, "Locked in the Dungeon." Tommy stares at Darren. Darren finally gets it.
DARREN: Yeah, Cole. you get to be the one locked in the dungeon. It happens too quick for Cole to react. Darren and Tommy shove Cole backwards. He stumbles into the darkness of the crawl space.
COLE: Tommy slams the door closed. Darren turns the lock. They crack smiles at each other as Cole bangs on the door. The BANGING GOES ON FOR A FEW SECONDS AND THEN IT JUST STOPS.
DARREN'S MOTHER: Who's making that noise? She looks to the closet. THE HIGH-PITCHED SCREAMS CUT THROUGH
LYNN: Lynn and Darren's mom rush to the door and turn the knob. The door flies open. Lynn reaches in and pulls out Cole. He's
LYNN: ( desperate whispers ) Help me get him in the car.
LYNN: What's wrong with Cole? The tests indicate he did not have a seizure. In fact he's doing fine. After some rest, he could go home Lynn closes her eyes. Lets out a tense breath. Beat. Malcolm eyes the doctor as he glances back to an academic-looking woman standing at the reception room door.
DR. HILL: The tests indicate he did not have a seizure. In fact he's doing fine. After some rest, he could go home Lynn closes her eyes. Lets out a tense breath. Beat. Malcolm eyes the doctor as he glances back to an academic-looking woman standing at the reception room door.
MALCOLM: There's something else going on, Lynn opens her eyes and catches the doctor's expression.
LYNN: What is it?
DR. HILL: There are some scratches and bruises on your son that concern me.
MALCOLM: Oh, man.
LYNN: Those are from sports, from playing. He's not the most coordinated kid, but I don't want him to stop trying, you know what I mean? Doctor Hill gestures to the woman standing near the doorway.
DR. HILL: Mrs. Sloan over there is our social worker at the hospital. She's going to ask you some procedural You think I hurt my child? You think I'm a bad mother?
LYNN: You think I hurt my child? You think I'm a bad mother?
DR. HILL: At this point it's just procedure. And you should probably calm down.
MALCOLM: How do you expect her to react?
LYNN: You want me to answer your I'm sorry if I was being vague yes, I do.
DR. HILL: ( sarcastic ) I'm sorry if I was being vague yes, I do.
LYNN: Who's going to answer mine, you Dr. Hill stares at her before closing up his files.
LYNN: ( raising voice ) What happened to my child today? Dr. Hill gets up.
LYNN: Something was happening to him physically happening. Something was very wrong. Dr. Hill hands his files to MRS. SLOAN and exits the reception room without looking back. Everyone in the reception room stares at Lynn. Mrs. Sloan walks up to the table and waits. Lynn takes a second. Wipes her eyes. Gathers her considerable strength. Beat.
LYNN: How long will these questions take?
MALCOLM: I've decided we shouldn't schedule sessions anymore. I'll just follow you around. Cole smiles weakly as Malcolm takes a seat on a rolling metal Malcolm notices Cole's legs emerging from under the hospital gown. Cole is wearing A MAN'S DRESS SOCK. The baggy folds ride up all the way to his knees.
MALCOLM: Your father ever tell you bedtime Malcolm looks at Cole. Malcolm makes a decision. He rolls in the chair across the room as he thinks. Beat.
COLE: Malcolm looks at Cole. Malcolm makes a decision. He rolls in the chair across the room as he thinks. Beat.
MALCOLM: Once upon a time there was a prince, who was being driven around. He drove around for a long, long time. Driving and driving. It was a long trip. He fell asleep. When he woke up, they were still driving. The long drive went on
COLE: Dr. Crowe.
MALCOLM: You haven't told bedtime stories You have to add some twists and stuff. Maybe they run out of gas.
COLE: You haven't told bedtime stories You have to add some twists and stuff. Maybe they run out of gas.
MALCOLM: You have to add some twists and stuff. Maybe they run out of gas.
COLE: You have to add some twists and stuff. Maybe they run out of gas.
MALCOLM: No gas. Hey, that's good. They sit in silence. Malcolm works on a new plot in his head.
COLE: Tell me a story about why you're Do you think I'm sad? Cole nods, "Yes."
MALCOLM: Do you think I'm sad? Cole nods, "Yes."
MALCOLM: What makes you think that?
COLE: Your eyes told me. Beat. Malcolm's affected by his client.
MALCOLM: ( rote ) I'm not supposed to talk about stuff like that. Cole smiles softly. Malcolm stares at the tired child sitting before him in the hospital bed. Malcolm rolls his stool away from his client as he thinks. Beat. He slowly moves the rolling chair closer to Cole's bed.
MALCOLM: .Once upon a time there was this person named Malcolm. He worked with children. Loved it more than Then one night, he finds out he made a mistake with one of them. Didn't help that one at all. He thinks about that one a lot. Can't Ever since then, things have been different. He's become messed up. Confused. Angry. Not the same person he used to be. His wife doesn't like the person he's become. They don't speak anymore. They're like strangers. Malcolm breaks from his thoughts and looks at Cole who watches him with unwavering attention. Malcolm smiles.
MALCOLM: And then one day this person Malcolm meets a wonderful boy who reminds him of that one. Reminds him a lot of that one. Malcolm decides to try to help this new boy. He thinks maybe if he can help this boy, it would be like helping that one too. Malcolm leans forward, whispers with emotional eyes.
MALCOLM: I don't know how the story ends. I hope it's a happy ending.
COLE: Me too. Cole looks at Malcolm's caring eyes. Cole stares at Malcolm a long time.
COLE: I want to tell you my secret now. Malcolm blinks very slowly.
MALCOLM: Cole takes an eternal pause. A silent tension engulfs them both.
COLE: .I see people. Malcolm just gazes quietly.
COLE: I see dead people. Some of them scare me. In your dreams? Cole shakes his head, "No."
MALCOLM: In your dreams? Cole shakes his head, "No."
MALCOLM: When you're awake? Cole nods, "Yes."
MALCOLM: Dead people, like in graves and No, walking around, like regular people. They can't see each other. Some of them don't know they're dead.
COLE: No, walking around, like regular people. They can't see each other. Some of them don't know they're dead.
MALCOLM: They don't know they're dead? I see ghosts. Malcolm becomes completely motionless. Works to hide his shock. He and Cole stare at each other a long time.
COLE: I see ghosts. Malcolm becomes completely motionless. Works to hide his shock. He and Cole stare at each other a long time.
COLE: They tell me stories. Things that happened to them. Things that happened to people they know. Beat. Malcolm's words are extra-controlled. Revealing nothing.
MALCOLM: How often do you see them?
COLE: All the time. They're everywhere. You won't tell anyone my secret, Will you stay here till I fall Malcolm nods, "Yes." Cole pulls the covers up to his chin and turns to the window in the room. Malcolm is very still and stares at Cole. MALCOLM'S EYES slowly turn and survey the room. They find nothing. Malcolm returns to watching Cole.
MALCOLM: Will you stay here till I fall Malcolm nods, "Yes." Cole pulls the covers up to his chin and turns to the window in the room. Malcolm is very still and stares at Cole. MALCOLM'S EYES slowly turn and survey the room. They find nothing. Malcolm returns to watching Cole.
COLE: Will you stay here till I fall Malcolm nods, "Yes." Cole pulls the covers up to his chin and turns to the window in the room. Malcolm is very still and stares at Cole. MALCOLM'S EYES slowly turn and survey the room. They find nothing. Malcolm returns to watching Cole.
MALCOLM: ( beat ) His pathology is more severe than initially assessed. ( beat ) He's suffering from visual hallucinations, paranoia Symptoms of some kind of school age ( beat ) Medication and hospitalization may be required. CLICK. Malcolm's hand with the tape recorder drops to his side.
MALCOLM: ( whispers ) I'm not helping him. Malcolm stares into the night. He stands alone as thoughts crash like thunder in his head.
LYNN: Hi, this is Lynn Sear, Cole's mother. I wonder if we could talk about your son and his friends keeping their goddamn hands off my boy? The thermostat on the wall reads seventy-eight degrees.
COLE: ( beat ) Dream about daddy again? The person turns. It's not Lynn. It's a strange woman. The woman's face is demented. A purple gash cuts across her forehead. ALL THE CABINETS AND DRAWERS ARE OPEN BEHIND HER.
WOMAN: DINNER'S NOT READY! Cole's face turns the color of ash.
WOMAN: What are you going to do? Cole backs up to the doorway.
WOMAN: You can't hurt me anymore! The woman smiles menacingly as she thrusts her wrists forward. They've been savagely cut.
TOMMY: ( Decent British accent ) There once was a boy, very different than other boys. He lived in the jungle, and he could talk with the animals. BACKSTAGE, Mr. Cunningham cues the rest of the children.
COLE: Did you think the play sucked big Tommy Tammisimo acted in a cough syrup commercial. He thought everybody was self-conscious and unrealistic. He said the play sucked big time.
MALCOLM: Tommy Tammisimo acted in a cough syrup commercial. He thought everybody was self-conscious and unrealistic. He said the play sucked big time.
COLE: Tommy Tammisimo acted in a cough syrup commercial. He thought everybody was self-conscious and unrealistic. He said the play sucked big time.
MALCOLM: I know every child is special in their own way, but Tommy sounds like a punk. I thought the play was excellent. Better than Cats.
COLE: Never mind. Beat. They continue down the hall in silence. Malcolm takes his Cole, I was really interested in what you told me in the hospital, I'd like to hear more about it. Malcolm stops at a set of doors at the end of the hall realizes Cole is no longer next to him. Malcolm turns to find Cole frozen about ten feet back. Malcolm walks to him. He notices Cole's expression as he gets What's wrong? Cole points to the doors.
MALCOLM: Never mind. Beat. They continue down the hall in silence. Malcolm takes his Cole, I was really interested in what you told me in the hospital, I'd like to hear more about it. Malcolm stops at a set of doors at the end of the hall realizes Cole is no longer next to him. Malcolm turns to find Cole frozen about ten feet back. Malcolm walks to him. He notices Cole's expression as he gets What's wrong? Cole points to the doors.
MALCOLM: Cole, I was really interested in what you told me in the hospital, I'd like to hear more about it. Malcolm stops at a set of doors at the end of the hall realizes Cole is no longer next to him. Malcolm turns to find Cole frozen about ten feet back. Malcolm walks to him. He notices Cole's expression as he gets What's wrong? Cole points to the doors.
MALCOLM: What's wrong? Cole points to the doors.
MALCOLM: Is something in there? Cole doesn't say anything. Beat.
MALCOLM: What is it? Malcolm follows the child's gaze to the ceiling of the gym.
MALCOLM: I don't see. Be real still. Malcolm looks to Cole and then turns back to the ceiling. Malcolm's body becomes very still. Beat.
COLE: Be real still. Malcolm looks to Cole and then turns back to the ceiling. Malcolm's body becomes very still. Beat.
COLE: Sometimes you feel it inside. Like you're falling down real fast, but you're really just standing Malcolm looks at the wood beams and climbing ropes.
COLE: You ever feel prickly things on the back of your neck? And the tiny hairs on your arm. Are they all standing up? Malcolm glances at Cole. Surprise on his face.
MALCOLM: And the tiny hairs on your arm. Are they all standing up? Malcolm glances at Cole. Surprise on his face.
COLE: And the tiny hairs on your arm. Are they all standing up? Malcolm glances at Cole. Surprise on his face.
MALCOLM: ( whispers ) When they get mad, it gets cold.
COLE: ( whispers ) When they get mad, it gets cold.
MALCOLM: Malcolm looks at the empty stairwell and then back to Cole. Nothing is said for a few moments.
MALCOLM: I don't see anything. Are you sure they're there? Malcolm turns back to Cole, he finds the child with tears in his eyes. Cole looks at Malcolm desperately.
COLE: Please make them leave. Malcolm stares helplessly.
MALCOLM: ( whispers ) I'm working on it. Malcolm gently leads Cole away from the stairs.
MALCOLM: ( whispers ) .Is anyone there? A long moment as he waits. The shadows seem to move, then becomes still. Malcolm shakes off the moment. He returns his hands to his pockets as he moves through the dark streets of Philadelphia to his home.
ANNA: I can't talk now. Malcolm doesn't hear anything as Anna listens to the person on the phone. She smiles as she wipes her tears. He starts for the basement door again.
ANNA: ( whispers ) I thought about you too. Malcolm turns. He stands frozen at the top of the stairs. Anna's HUSHED WORDS RISING IN THE AIR LIKE A GUN BLAST.
LYNN: I don't care what they say, this thing is definitely broken. Lynn fiddles with the dials. Cole is standing before the beat-up twelve inch kitchen T.V. ON THE TELEVISION SCREEN is Tommy Tammisimo. He stands in his pajamas in a doorway. He coughs.
TOMMY: ( on T.V. ) Mommy, my throat hurts. Cole watches as Tommy's T.V. mother and father give him a spoonful of medicine.
NARRATOR: ( on T.V. ) Pediaease Cough Suppressant. gentle, fast, effective. Cole watches Tommy running around in his T.V. background, the very next T.V. morning. He's not sick anymore. Tommy waves to the camera smiling and healthy. The T.V. goes BLACK as Cole throws his shoe at the power button. He moves to the dinner table where Lynn is seated. Cole sits. His hands go on the table. He's wearing a pair of his father's extra large LEATHER GLOVES. Cole's small hands don't even fill the palm area. Cole has difficulty trying to pick up his milk glass with the gloves.
LYNN: Take 'em off. Cole removes the gloves from his hand and places them next to his I don't want them on my table. Cole moves them to the floor. Lynn is irritated, this is a sore point between them. Lynn and Cole eat quietly. Beat.
LYNN: I don't want them on my table. Cole moves them to the floor. Lynn is irritated, this is a sore point between them. Lynn and Cole eat quietly. Beat.
LYNN: I saw what was in your bureau drawer when I was cleaning. Cole looks up. An anxious expression on his face. Beat.
LYNN: You got something you want to Cole just stares.
LYNN: The bumble bee pendant. Why do you keep taking it? Cole looks down at his lap.
LYNN: It was Grandma's. It's not for What if it broke? You know how sad I'd be.
COLE: You'd cry. Cause you miss grandma so much.
LYNN: ( soft ) That's right. So why do you take it, sweetheart?
COLE: Sometimes people think they lose things and they didn't really lose them. It just gets moved.
LYNN: Did you move the bumble bee pendant? Cole shakes his head, "No." Lynn just stares.
LYNN: You didn't take it before. You didn't take it the time after that. And now, you didn't take it again?
COLE: Don't get mad.
LYNN: So who moved it? Cole doesn't answer.
LYNN: There's only two of us. Maybe someone came in our house took the bumble bee pendant out of my closet, and then laid it nicely in your drawer? Is that what happened?
COLE: ( soft ) Lynn just stares at Cole.
LYNN: I'm so tired, Cole. I'm tired in my body. I'm tired in my mind. I'm tired in my heart. I need a little help here. I don't know if you noticed but our little family isn't doing so Lynn folds her napkin quietly.
LYNN: I'm praying for us, but I must not be praying right. It looks like we're just going to have to answer each other's prayers. If we can't talk to each other we're not going to make it. Now baby, tell me. I won't be mad, honey. Did you take the bumble bee pendant? Beat. Cole's eyes start to water up.
COLE: Lynn goes cold.
LYNN: You've had enough roast beef. You need to leave the table. Cole just stares at his mother's expression.
LYNN: ( yells ) Cole gets up never taking his eyes off his mother and leaves the room.
BOY: Come on. I'll show you where my dad keeps his gun. Come on.
COLE: If you're not very mad. Can I sleep in your room tonight? Lynn fights back some tears.
LYNN: Look at my face, Cole. Cole does. Lynn smiles at her son.
LYNN: I'm not very mad. Lynn hugs him. Beat.
LYNN: Baby. Why are you shaking? Cole doesn't answer.
LYNN: Cole, what's wrong? Cole just closes his eyes and holds his mom tight.
LYNN: ( desperate ) .Please tell me. Cole doesn't say a word.
LYNN: ( crying ) INT. ANTIQUE STORE - DAY We are in an antique store. Filled floor to ceiling with furniture and knickknacks. Anna stands with a YOUNG COUPLE. All three lean over and peer into a glass cabinet. An antique engagement ring sits on a velvet stand.
ANNA: It's Edwardian. Beautifully worked. Entirely platinum with a mine cut diamond and an actual color Burmese Sapphire. It's timeless.
YOUNG MAN: You got anything a little plainer? The young woman looks at her beau.
YOUNG WOMAN: Plainer? You want a plain ring to go with your plain fiance. Is that how it is?
YOUNG MAN: No, baby. Don't get in a tizzy. It's just. you're so beautiful. you're like a Burmese Sapphire all by yourself. You don't need all Anna smiles as she takes the ring out of the cabinet.
YOUNG WOMAN: ( disbelief ) Anna smiles as she takes the ring out of the cabinet.
ANNA: Why don't you two hold it? She places it in their hands.
ANNA: Do you feel longing?
YOUNG WOMAN: Excuse me?
ANNA: When I touch this piece I feel a longing. I imagine the woman who owned this, loved a man deeply she couldn't be with. The young woman looks at Anna with great intrigue.
YOUNG WOMAN: Did he have wavy hair and broad The young man throws an odd glance at his fiance.
ANNA: I don't know. But maybe. A lot of the pieces in this store give me feelings. I think maybe when people own things and then they pass away a part of themselves gets printed on those things like fingerprints. Beat. The young man and the young woman gaze at Anna silently. They look down at the ring. They place their hands on it reverently, delicately like checking for a pulse. Anna can't hold back her sweet smile.
SEAN: You don't need someone with a masters. You need a wrestler guy whose neck is larger than his head.
ANNA: I need a wrestler with a masters. Anna fills out the paperwork for the ring.
SEAN: What's this? Anna looks over to find Sean standing at his desk where a BIRTHDAY PRESENT sits on his tabletop. Sean looks at her.
SEAN: From you? Anna nods, "yes."
SEAN: Is it wrestling tights? Anna smiles as she moves to his desk. Sean begins to tear off the wrapping paper like a kid at Christmas. Anna laughs. Sean holds up a weathered hardback copy of "THE GREAT GATSBY." Beat.
ANNA: It's a first edition.
SEAN: Wow, this is too much. It's perfect, Anna. Sean puts down the book and hugs her. He pulls back a little, still holding her. They smile at each other. Beat. The moment goes on just that crucial fraction of a second too long. Their smiles slowly melt away as they continue to hold each other. Nothing happens for the longest time. CRASH! A SHATTERING DOOR SLAM ECHOES THROUGH THE STORE. Anna and Jeffery pull apart. They rush past the young man and the young woman to the front of the store. They find the glass front door cracked in a spider web pattern. They carefully push open the door and step out onto the sidewalk. Look around. No one in sight. Anna stares down the empty street. A concerned expression on her EXT. STREET - DAY Malcolm walks angrily down the sidewalk. He stops as his hand goes to his side. He winces with pain as he keeps walking.
LYNN: Let's rent a movie. Cole bites off the last of the popsicle and glances at his mom.
LYNN: Your pick. Cole stares at his mom quietly.
LYNN: It can even have Jean Claude Van Damme in it if you want. Cole smiles at that. He nods, "Yes" joyfully. His smile fades away as he notices his mother fiddling with the HEATER controls. Cole gazes out the front windshield as the car moves towards home. Suddenly a piece of paper sticks to the windshield. It's a page from a Playbill. A 1941 Playbill. It flies away revealing a woman in a flowing flowery dress from the 40's suddenly walks into the middle of the street as the pages of her Playbill swirl in the air.
COLE: ( yells ) Momma, look out! The woman in the flowery dress turns. Her hand rests on her stomach. WE SEE SHE IS PREGNANT. Playbills stick to the windshield obstructing the view. Lynn slams the brakes. Too late.
COLE: You don't wanna ask me questions Malcolm nods, "No." Beat.
COLE: Can I ask you then?
MALCOLM: What do you want more than anything?
COLE: What do you want more than anything?
MALCOLM: I don't know.
COLE: I told you what I want.
MALCOLM: I don't know, Cole.
COLE: Why don't you think about it for a Malcolm doesn't respond. Cole watches him. Beat.
MALCOLM: I know what I want. My goal is to speak to my wife. The way she and I used to speak. Like there was no one in the world but us. How are you going to do that? I can't be your doctor anymore. I haven't given my family enough attention. Bad things happen when you do that. Do you understand? The room falls into silence again. Cole speaks extra soft.
COLE: ( soft ) How are you going to do that? ( whispers ) I can't be your doctor anymore. ( beat ) I haven't given my family enough attention. Bad things happen when you do that. Do you understand? The room falls into silence again. Cole speaks extra soft.
MALCOLM: ( whispers ) I can't be your doctor anymore. ( beat ) I haven't given my family enough attention. Bad things happen when you do that. Do you understand? The room falls into silence again. Cole speaks extra soft.
COLE: You want to go home? Malcolm stares across at Cole.
MALCOLM: I have to.
COLE: Soon. One week. Malcolm looks down at his eyes full with emotion.
MALCOLM: Soon. One week. Malcolm looks down at his eyes full with emotion.
MALCOLM: I'm going to transfer you. I know two psychologists that are Don't fail me. Malcolm looks up sharply.
COLE: ( whispers ) Don't fail me. Malcolm looks up sharply.
MALCOLM: Don't give up. You're the only one who can help me. I know it. Beat. Malcolm tries to stay composed. It doesn't work.
COLE: Don't give up. You're the only one who can help me. I know it. Beat. Malcolm tries to stay composed. It doesn't work.
MALCOLM: You want to know a secret?. I was a paper champion. Do you know what that means? Cole shake his head, "No." Tears fall down Malcolm's cheeks.
COLE: Don't cry.
MALCOLM: I means I wasn't what everyone thought I was. I was a fake.
COLE: You weren't a paper champion.
MALCOLM: Someone else can help you. Someone else can make you happy. Cole is crying now. Cole wipes his eyes with his sleeve. They sit quietly and stare at each other. Beat. Cole whispers.
COLE: Dr. Crowe?
MALCOLM: You believe me, right? A long pause.
COLE: You believe me, right? A long pause.
COLE: Dr. Crowe, you believe my secret, They both just stare.
MALCOLM: I don't know how to answer that. Cole searches for the answer in Malcolm's eyes. He finds it. It's not the one he wanted. Malcolm looks down.
COLE: How can you help me if you don't believe me? Cole reaches into his pocket. Pulls out a PENNY. Cole pushes it across the table. Malcolm gazes at it, then looks up at Cole's pained eyes. Some magic's real.
COLE: ( whispers ) Some magic's real.
MALCOLM: ( on tape ) Sorry about that. Hope I didn't leave you alone too long. Wow, it's cold in here. WE HEAR A CHAIR MOVE AS MALCOLM SITS DOWN. And then SILENCE. ( on tape ) Vincent. Why are you crying? ( beat ) A TEN-YEAR-OLD'S VOICE ANSWERS. ( on tape crying ) ( on tape ) What happened? ( beat ) Did something upset you? Beat. VINCENT SNIFFLES.
MALCOLM: ( on tape ) Vincent. Why are you crying? ( beat ) A TEN-YEAR-OLD'S VOICE ANSWERS. ( on tape crying ) ( on tape ) What happened? ( beat ) Did something upset you? Beat. VINCENT SNIFFLES.
VINCENT: ( on tape crying ) ( on tape ) What happened? ( beat ) Did something upset you? Beat. VINCENT SNIFFLES.
MALCOLM: ( on tape ) What happened? ( beat ) Did something upset you? Beat. VINCENT SNIFFLES.
VINCENT: ( on tape ) You won't believe.
MALCOLM: ( on tape ) I won't believe what? ( on tape ) I don't want to talk anymore. I want to go home, okay? I want to go home. ( on tape ) Okay, Vincent, you can go home.
VINCENT: ( on tape ) I don't want to talk anymore. I want to go home, okay? I want to go home. ( on tape ) Okay, Vincent, you can go home.
MALCOLM: ( on tape ) Okay, Vincent, you can go home.
MALCOLM: ( on tape ) about that. Hope I didn't leave you too long. Wow, it's cold in Malcolm hits the rewind button again. Lets it rewind for a while. Presses play.
MALCOLM: ( on tape ) like needles either. When I was a kid, I had this blood test down threw up chill cheese fries all over this male nurse.
SECRETARY: ( on tape ) Excuse me, Doctor Reed is on line ( on tape ) Vincent, I have to take this. Give me a minute.
MALCOLM: ( on tape ) Vincent, I have to take this. Give me a minute.
VINCENT: ( on tape ) FOOTSTEPS AS MALCOLM AND THE SECRETARY LEAVE THE ROOM. THE DOOR CLOSES. AND THE SILENCE. Nothing happens for a long time. AND THEN WE HEAR A SUDDEN CHAIR
MAN'S WHISPERING: ( on tape ) Familia. No dejen que esto me pase. Mi familia. Yo no quiero morir. Familia. Malcolm's mouth opens in disbelief.
MALCOLM: .Jesus Christ.
MALCOLM: Hello again. He looks down and studies Malcolm.
COLE: You been running around? Malcolm nods, "Yes."
COLE: It makes you feel better? Malcolm nods, "Yes" again.
COLE: I like to run around. It's good You want to ask me questions now? Malcolm shakes his head, "No."
COLE: You want to be a lance corporal in Company M, 3rd Battalion, 7th Marines? We're being dispatched to the Quang Nam province. Cole holds up his plastic rifleman. Malcolm's eyes show he understands now.
MALCOLM: Maybe later. Something happened, didn't it?
COLE: Something happened, didn't it?
MALCOLM: Yes, it did.
COLE: Are you wigging out?
MALCOLM: Yes, I am.
COLE: We're not gonna start crying again, are we?
MALCOLM: No, we're not.
COLE: What happened? Malcolm glances around the empty church before looking back up to These people. People that died and are still hanging around. Maybe they weren't ready to go. Cole studies Malcolm's passionate face. A new face.
MALCOLM: These people. People that died and are still hanging around. Maybe they weren't ready to go. Cole studies Malcolm's passionate face. A new face.
COLE: You really look better.
MALCOLM: Maybe they wake up that morning thinking they have a thousand things to do and a thousand days left to do them in. And then all of a sudden, it's all taken away. No one asked them. It's just gone.
COLE: You have nice red in your cheeks now.
MALCOLM: Do you know what 'Yo no quiero morir' is? Cole shakes his head, "No."
MALCOLM: It's Spanish. It means. 'I don't want to die.' Not all the ghosts are scary, are they? Like Mrs. Marschal?
COLE: What do those ghosts want when they talk to you? Think real careful now, Cole. Cole stops moving. He looks over the balcony railing at Malcolm.
MALCOLM: What do those ghosts want when they talk to you? Think real careful now, Cole. Cole stops moving. He looks over the balcony railing at Malcolm.
COLE: Just help.
MALCOLM: Yes! I think that's right!. I think they all want that. Even the scary ones.
COLE: You believe now? Malcolm's stare is unwavering.
MALCOLM: I believe both of you now. And I think I might know how to make them go away.
COLE: You do? Malcolm nods "Yes."
MALCOLM: I think they know you're one of those guys rare people can see them. You need to help them. Each one of Everyone wants to be heard. Cole takes a big sigh. Fiddles with his riflemen.
COLE: What if they don't want help? What if they're just angry and they want to hurt somebody?
MALCOLM: I don't think that's the way it works, Cole. Cole looks nervous.
COLE: How do you know for sure? Malcolm's eyes are drawn to Cole's arm. Peeking out from under his shirt sleeve are a set of cuts. Malcolm gazes at them.
MALCOLM: I don't. Cole and Malcolm stand silently in the center aisle of the back of the church.
ANNA: .You just walked out. You're probably on your way home. I'm leaving this message. I just didn't get to say what I meant. I know you're confused. It's just. I'm not prepared to do this, Sean. I don't want to be ashamed of that. I don't want to have to make excuses for that. And I wanted to tell you. I bought your present wholesale from a friend. I didn't even pay tax on it. You don't need someone cheap like that. By the way, it's a non-refundable item, it's scratched on the bottom. Are you smiling?. I hope you're I'll see you at the store. Beat. A long silence. Then WE HEAR ANNA GENTLY HANG UP. Malcolm leans back against an old radiator. Beat. His eyes close as the SOUND OF HIS WIFE'S FOOTSTEPS RISES UP THE
LYNN: ( beat ) Cole, what's happening. Cole quickly gets up and rushes out of the tent. His foot catches one of the chairs the tent is fastened to. He stumbles out. He doesn't realize one of the bedsheets comes loose. It folds to the ground.
LYNN: Cole, what's happening to you? Cole looks down and finds his mother laying in her bed. Her face contorted in deep sadness as she speaks in her sleep.
LYNN: Is someone hurting you?. I'll beat their asses. Cole smiles at his mother as he moves to her side. Touches her face with his tiny fingers.
COLE: ( whispers ) Momma, you sleep now. His touch seems to have an effect. Lynn becomes still in her sleep. Cole watches her carefully.
GIRL: I'm feeling much better now. The girl reaches out with her withered and emaciated hands tiny tubes hang from her wrists. She scratches Cole as he tumbles back terrified out of the tent. The whole tent collapses
GIRL: I'm feeling much better. Cole and the little girl stare silently at each other. Cole holds her stare with trembling eyes. He opens his mouth it takes a while before the words come out.
COLE: Do you want to tell me something?
SHACKLED MAN: My name's not Sullivan!
COLE: She came a long way to visit me, didn't she?
MALCOLM: I guess she did. Cole falls into deep thoughts as he stares down at his dress shoes. Malcolm slips back into silence. The city bus slithers through the old Philadelphia streets working its way downtown.
MALCOLM: Her little sister? Cole nods, "Yes." Malcolm and Cole watch her for a moment before following others into the modest corner home.
VISITOR #1: .can you imagine being a child in a bed for two years? We move to.
VISITOR #2: .I think it was six. We move to.
VISITOR #3: .Six separate doctors? We move to.
VISITOR #4: ( whispers ) .the little one's falling ill now. We move to.
VISITOR #5: .God help them. A FAMILY PORTRAIT HANGS NEAR THE FRONT DOOR. Two girls, one bigger, one smaller sit on the ground in front of their mother and father. Their smiling faces welcome the mourners. Malcolm and Cole are standing at the bottom of a staircase. The front door opens as another group arrives. Malcolm nods to Cole as the foyer fills up. The two of them quietly disappear INT. HALLWAY - AFTERNOON The narrow hall is lined with boxes of medical supplies. I.V. stands, sterile needles and pads are in the process of being taken away. The boxes are piled outside a closed bedroom door. Cole stares at the shut door like he doesn't want to go in. His eyes move to the large, colorful map of the world that dons the hallway wall. He gazes at the many countries and continents. I wish I were somewhere else.
COLE: I wish I were somewhere else.
MALCOLM: ( soft ) Where will you go, where no one has Cole stares at the map and then turns to Malcolm.
COLE: Don't go home, okay?
MALCOLM: I definitely won't. Cole turns and stares quietly at the door. He waits a long time before reaching for the doorknob.
COLE: The man doesn't react. Some of the guests look oddly at the little boy standing before the man.
COLE: Excuse me, Mister. Beat. The man slowly turns and looks down at the boy standing next to him. Cole is very shaky. Malcolm watches everything anxiously. Cole stares at Mr. Collins.
COLE: Are you Kyra's daddy? The man's face begins to crumble. Beat. He nods, "yes" softly. Cole holds out the jewelry box. It trembles with his hands. The father just stares at it. Beat.
COLE: It's for you. She wanted to tell you something. The father becomes very still. His eyes fill with a storm of confusion and pain. After the longest time, the father reaches and gently takes the box out of Cole's small hands. Cole begins to back away. The father gazes at Cole as he melts into the crowd. Cole reaches Malcolm and the two then slip out of the house. The father looks down in a daze. He goes to open the jewelry box. His movements are slow and strained. He lifts the latch and open the box. Mr. Collins stares at an unlabeled video cassette.
T.V. SCREEN: WE HEAR FOOTSTEPS COMING UP THE STAIRS. The puppets go limp. The entire stage gets lifted up. We see it carried away by Kyra. We can view the whole bedroom now. The camera is seated on her desk in the corner. Kyra climbs in bed and pretends to be sleeping when the door opens. It's Mrs. Collins. She carries in a tray of soup and a LIVING ROOM The crowd watches in riveted silence. The father never takes his eyes off of the screen. The image of the mother prepares the meal. She uncovers the fruit and the soup. Places a straw into the drink. And then it happens. The image of the mother walks to a closet. Opens it. An assortment of household cleaners and sponges are kept inside. She pulls out a bottle of floor cleaner. Reads the label for the ingredients. Walks back to the food tray, where she unscrews the cap on the floor cleaner. The mother pours some into the cap. Checks it.
LIVING ROOM: The crowd watches in riveted silence. The father never takes his eyes off of the screen. The image of the mother prepares the meal. She uncovers the fruit and the soup. Places a straw into the drink. And then it happens. The image of the mother walks to a closet. Opens it. An assortment of household cleaners and sponges are kept inside. She pulls out a bottle of floor cleaner. Reads the label for the ingredients. Walks back to the food tray, where she unscrews the cap on the floor cleaner. The mother pours some into the cap. Checks it.
MRS. COLLINS: ( video tape ) That's too much. The mother pours some into the bottle. The remainder goes into the child's soup. She replaces the cap and puts the bottle back in the closet. The image of the mother turns to the bed carrying the tray. She places the food on a metallic rolling table and swings it over the bed.
MRS. COLLINS: ( video tape ) Kyra, time for lunch. Kyra pretends to wake from a deep sleep.
KYRA: ( video tape ) I'm feeling much better now. The image of the mother smiles.
MRS. COLLINGS: ( video tape ) I'm glad, honey. ( beat ) Time for your food.
KYRA: ( video tape ) Can I go outside, if I eat this?
MRS. COLLINS: ( video tape ) We'll see. You know how you get sick in the afternoon. Kyra picks up the spoon and takes a sip. Her face crinkles at the taste. She looks up at her mother.
MRS. COLLINS: ( video tape ) Don't say it tastes funny. You know I don't like to hear that. Kyra slowly brings the spoon to her mouth and swallows another The father SHUTS OFF THE TELEVISION with his trembling hands. He presses his hands to his eyes like they're burning. The ROOM IS UTTERLY SILENT.
MR. COLLINS: ( soft ) You were keeping her sick. The whole world stops. The mother's face registers confusion at first. Then slow realization. Her eyes glace at the many faces around her. She looks back at her husband. His glare is painful. Rage filling every cell of his body. Tears falling faster down his Mrs. Collins turns her attention back to the flowers. She concentrates with all her strength. Beat. Her hands begin to ( to no one ) I took care of her. Her words are met with ice cold stares. The first tears stream down her face. The pretty flowers of consolation in her hand tumble to the floor.
MRS. COLLINS: ( to no one ) I took care of her. Her words are met with ice cold stares. The first tears stream down her face. The pretty flowers of consolation in her hand tumble to the floor.
COLE: You liked it, she said. The four-year-old stares at the finger puppet, then quietly takes it in her small hands. The two children don't say anything for a while. Malcolm glances to the house, where all movements in and out of the home has Cole turns to the four-year-old.
COLE: She watched out for you. The little girl finally looks up. She has the saddest eyes.
COLE: Not anymore. The little girl stares down at the finger puppet. Cole lightly places a hand on her shoulder. Nothing else is said. Nothing else is done. Malcolm looks across the two children on the swings. One mourning. One consoling. Malcolm takes it in, overwhelmed.
MR. CUNNINGHAM: They're calling for the stable boy. Mr. Cunningham looks around the room and then directly at Cole.
MR. CUNNINGHAM: Who were you talking to? The Female Teacher looks to Cole and nods.
FEMALE TEACHER: Poor Stanley. She stands up. The entire left side of her face has been burnt horribly. Grotesquely disfigured.
FEMALE TEACHER: My favorite student.
COLE: Thanks for giving me this part, Mr. Mr. Cunningham smiles.
MR. CUNNINGHAM: You're welcome, Cole. They share a look before walking out of the prop room and entering the hall. We see them walking away.
MR. CUNNINGHAM: You know when I was in school, there was a terrible fire in this section of the theater. They rebuilt the whole thing. I know.
COLE: I know.
MALCOLM: Has the play started yet? The teacher hurries past Malcolm and down the hall without saying a word.
MALCOLM: Is that a yes? The teacher scurries around a corner. Malcolm watches her INT. AUDITORIUM - AFTERNOON Malcolm moves quickly to a set of double doors and opens them. He steps into the DARKNESS OF THE AUDITORIUM. The play is in full swing. Cole and a large group of costumed children are on stage. Cole holds a broom and wears a worn-down costume. He stands to the side hidden by others. A boy in a shiny-armored costume walks to the center of the stage where a large cardboard stone is seated. A sparkling HANDLE sticks out of the top. The armored boy tries to lift it. It won't budge. Bobby, the chubby boy from the party, is dressed in a magician's costume. He is Merlin. He steps forward.
MERLIN: Only he who is pure of heart can take the sword from the stone. Merlin looks to the group on stage. Looks right at Cole.
MERLIN: Let the boy try. The group of villagers on the stage LAUGH AND MOCK THE SUGGESTION. Tommy Tammisimo is dressed in a mismatched costume he hops around, clearly embarrassed.
TOMMY: ( half-heartedly ) But he's the stable boy. He cleans after the horses.
MERLIN: Silence village idiot! Let the boy step forward. Tommy turns a deep shade of red and hobbles off the stage. Merlin looks to Cole. He smiles a true friend's smile.
MERLIN: Cole hesitates. Not because he's acting. He really hesitates. It takes him a moment before he steps forward. Cole steps up to the stone. He places his hand around the handle. Begins to pull. The sword starts to come out. The villagers GASP. Cole raises the shiny sword out of the stone and high above his Merlin and everyone on stage bows. A SILENCE FILLS THE
COLE: How come we're so quiet? Malcolm shrugs his shoulders.
MALCOLM: I think we said everything we needed to say. Maybe it's time to say things to someone else? Someone close to you?
COLE: Cole keeps moving. Beat.
COLE: I'm not going to see you anymore, am I? Malcolm doesn't respond for a while. He shakes his head, "No." You were great in the play, Cole.
MALCOLM: You were great in the play, Cole.
COLE: And you know what else?
MALCOLM: And you know what else?
COLE: Tommy Tammisimo sucked big time. Cole smiles huge. Beat. Cole's sword drags on the tile as he continues to circle around the hall. We get the idea he doesn't want to be still.
MALCOLM: Tommy Tammisimo sucked big time. Cole smiles huge. Beat. Cole's sword drags on the tile as he continues to circle around the hall. We get the idea he doesn't want to be still.
COLE: .Maybe we can pretend we're going to see each other tomorrow? Cole glances at Malcolm.
COLE: Just for pretend. Beat. Malcolm exhales very slowly as he gets up.
MALCOLM: Okay, Cole, I'm going to go now. I'll see you tomorrow. Cole watches as Malcolm walks down the stairs to the entrance. Cole stops moving.
COLE: ( soft ) See you tomorrow. Malcolm's face shows his losing battle against his emotions. He doesn't turn to look back.
LYNN: I hope nobody got hurt. Beat. Lynn glances over to Cole who sits in his seat silently.
LYNN: You're very quiet. You're mad I missed the play, aren't you? Cole shakes his head, "No."
LYNN: I have two jobs, baby. You know how important they are for us. I'd give anything to have been I'm ready to communicate with you Tell you my secrets. The way he says the words gives Lynn a chill.
LYNN: I'd give anything to have been I'm ready to communicate with you Tell you my secrets. The way he says the words gives Lynn a chill.
COLE: I'm ready to communicate with you Tell you my secrets. The way he says the words gives Lynn a chill.
LYNN: Tell you my secrets. The way he says the words gives Lynn a chill.
COLE: Tell you my secrets. The way he says the words gives Lynn a chill.
LYNN: What is it? Cole takes a long time.
COLE: You know that accident up there?
LYNN: ( confused ) Someone got hurt.
COLE: Someone got hurt.
LYNN: They did?
COLE: A lady. She died.
LYNN: Oh my God. Lynn leans over the steering wheel. She wipes the windshield with her palm to see better.
LYNN: You can see her?
COLE: Lynn gazes out the windshield at the line of red tail lights.
LYNN: Where is she?
COLE: Standing next to my window.
LYNN: Cole, you're scaring me.
COLE: They scare me too sometimes.
LYNN: Dead people.
COLE: Dead people.
LYNN: Dead people?
COLE: You see ghosts, Cole?
LYNN: You see ghosts, Cole?
COLE: They want me to do things for them.
LYNN: They talk to you? Cole nods, "Yes."
LYNN: They tell you to do things? Cole nods "Yes" again. Lynn becomes upset. She nods with grave understanding. Cole watches her.
COLE: What are you thinking, Momma?
LYNN: .I don't know.
COLE: You think I'm a freak? Lynn's eyes moves to Cole.
LYNN: Look at my face. Cole gazes at her intense expression.
LYNN: I would never think that about you . ever. Got it?
COLE: Got it. BEAT. Cole smiles a tiny smile. Lynn glances down.
LYNN: Just let me think for a second. She drowns in her thoughts. Beat.
COLE: Grandma says hi. Lynn looks up sharply.
COLE: She says she's sorry for taking the bumble bee pendant. She just likes it a lot.
LYNN: Grandma comes to visit me sometimes. Lynn becomes still. Her face is unreadable. When she speaks, her words are extremely controlled.
COLE: Grandma comes to visit me sometimes. Lynn becomes still. Her face is unreadable. When she speaks, her words are extremely controlled.
LYNN: Cole, that's very wrong. Grandma's gone. You know that.
COLE: I know. She wanted me to tell you
COLE: She wanted me to tell you
LYNN: ( soft ) Cole, please stop.
COLE: She wanted me to tell you, she saw you dance. Lynn's eyes lock on Cole's.
COLE: She said when you were little, you and her had a fight right before your dance recital. You thought she didn't come to see you dance. She did. Lynn brings her hands to her mouth.
COLE: She hid in the back so you wouldn't see. She said you were like an Lynn begins to cry.
COLE: She said, you came to her where they buried her. Asked her a question. She said the answer is Lynn covers her face with her hands. The tears roll out through her fingers.
COLE: ( whispers ) What did you ask? Beat. Lynn looks at her son. She barely gets the words out.
LYNN: ( crying ) Do I make her proud? Cole moves closer to Lynn. She cradles him in her arms. Mother and son hold each other tight.
MALCOLM: ( whispers ) Anna, I've been so lost. ( beat ) I need my best friend. Silence. Malcolm gazes for a beat before looking down.
ANNA: I miss you. Malcolm's eyes move back up. He looks at his sleeping wife.
MALCOLM: I miss you. Beat. Her lips move again. Eyes never open.
ANNA: Why, Malcolm?
MALCOLM: What, Anna? What did I do? What's made you so sad? Why did you leave me?
ANNA: Why did you leave me?
MALCOLM: I didn't leave you. Beat. She becomes silent. Anna falls back into deep sleep, her arm slides down. SOMETHING SHINY FALLS OUT AND ROLLS ON THE
MALCOLM: ( like he's falling FLASHBACK: INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT VIOLENT GUN SHOTS RING THROUGH THE BEDROOM. Anna rushes across the room to a crumpled Malcolm laying on the floor. Malcolm's hands are clutched at his side. Anna pries his hands away to reveal the tiniest tear in his shirt. Anna's eyes catch something dark moving. A POOL OF BLOOD IS FORMING UNDER MALCOLM. She slowly turns him over on his side. A horrific sight. An enormous exit wound on his lower back pours out blood uncontrollably. Malcolm's jaw is locked open. His breaths are long and strained.
MALCOLM: ( screaming )
ANNA!: MALCOLM'S VOICE SHAKES THE ROOM. Anna just sleeps. Malcolm staggers back. His breathing erratic. He takes a seat across from her. He looks at his wife and suddenly becomes very still. Anna's still curled up asleep, but tears are falling from her shut eyes. Anna doesn't move, but her tears seem to fall a little faster.
MALCOLM: Don't cry. Anna doesn't move, but her tears seem to fall a little faster.
MALCOLM: I think I have to go. Malcolm's mind is racing.
MALCOLM: ( realizing ) I just needed to do a couple of ( beat ) And I needed to tell you something.
ANNA: Tell me. You were never second. Ever. Malcolm gazes at his wife. Tears fall from both their eyes.
MALCOLM: You were never second. Ever. Malcolm gazes at his wife. Tears fall from both their eyes.
MALCOLM: You sleep now, Anna. Everything will be different in the morning. Anna lays still.
ANNA: Goodnight, Malcolm.
MALCOLM: Goodnight, sweetheart. The room falls into silence. Malcolm sits still across from his wife. He drinks her in with his eyes. Malcolm leans back in the chair. Slowly closes his eyes. They close shut.
MALCOLM: ( on tape ) .I think I've had too much to Malcolm smiles as he takes a sip. The guests chuckle as they watch. Beat.
MALCOLM: ( on tape ) I just have to say, this day today has been one very special day. I wish we all could stay and play. The crowd erupts in LAUGHTER.
MALCOLM: ( on tape ) Malcolm looks around at everyone's smiling faces. Beat. Malcolm takes his time. He looks just past the camera.
MALCOLM: Anna, I never thought I'd feel the things I'm feeling. I never thought I'd be able to stand up in front of my friends and family and tell them what's inside me. Today I can. Malcolm's eyes fill with water.
MALCOLM: ( softly ) Anna Crowe. I am in love. In love I am.
THE END: Writers : M. Night Shyamalan
