SAM: Mommy got sick and it happened just like that and there was nothing anybody would do. And pull back to reveal:
SAM: If we start asking why we'll go crazy. So, rule number one. We don't ask why.
ANNIE: Why? I just want to know why? That's my first rule. I always ask why. Come on. Tell me. C'mon, c'mon, c'mon And pull back to reveal:
SETH: There's no why, Annie. I'm just not up for it. I never said I was.
ANNIE: Is there somebody else?
SETH: You don't love me, is that it?
ANNIE: You don't love me, is that it?
SETH: Follow them into:
ANNIE: How about . you're too narcissistic to commit to another human being in a long- term way.
SETH: ( agreeably ) That's good.
SUZY: Five minutes in the microwave. Any one of them, five minutes and done. Ready to eat. Do you know how to make juice?
SAM: Microwave. Five minutes.
ANNIE: You take the microwave?
SETH: What am I going to do with a You turn it on, you open it and you stand in front of it for a very long time.
ANNIE: You turn it on, you open it and you stand in front of it for a very long time.
SETH: So you're angry. Big deal.
ROB: Young man, it's none of my business, but maybe you should talk to someone. I myself have consulted a professional. I used to be up tight. On Sam's face. It's hard to imagine Rob being any more uptight than he is. Sam takes some business cards out of his shirt pocket and reads them off.
SAM: Hypnotherapy.Shiatu Massage. Loss of Spouse support groups. Single parent discussion nights. Parents without partners. ( starts riffling, angry ) Partners without parents. People who need people. Guys who go into the woods, beat drums and bond. Get a shrink. Hug a friend. Hug yourself. He stops, realizing that everyone in the room is staring at him. Quickly they pretend they weren't paying attention. Someone whispers something to a client.
SAM: ( continued ) Don't mind him. He's the guy who just lost his wife. ( beat ) What I really think is we need a change.
ROB: Good idea. Take a few weeks off, get some sun, take Jonah ( shaking his head no ) A real change. New city. Someplace where every time I go around a corner I don't think of Maggie. And hold on Sam for a moment and
SAM: ( shaking his head no ) A real change. New city. Someplace where every time I go around a corner I don't think of Maggie. And hold on Sam for a moment and
SAM: I was thinking about Seattle.
LAURIE: Honey, he wasn't right for you.
ANNIE: ( blowing her nose ) I know.
LAURIE: He wasn't even wrong for you, like cosmically wrong, so don't beat up on yourself for wasting.however long it was.
ANNIE: I know. ( blowing her nose She pours Annie a cup of hot water. Annie pulls a teabag out of her pocket, puts it into the water.
LAURIE: Maybe you should see a shrink.
ANNIE: I want my money.
LAURIE: Go home for the weekend.
ANNIE: ( after a beat ) That's what I'm going to do. I'm going to go home. ( she thinks about it ) I quit. Laurie, I quit. I'm going back to Baltimore. ( she's giddy ) How does a blonde do a high- She smacks herself in the head.
JONAH: ( to Mack ) Dad says I'm going to get used to it, but I don't think you can ever get used to a designated hitter. ( to Sam ) Eventually, in a few months, you'll start seeing women, you'll meet someone.
SUZY: ( to Sam ) Eventually, in a few months, you'll start seeing women, you'll meet someone.
SAM: Move on. Right. That's what I'm going to do. In a few months, boom, I'll be fine, I'll just grow a new heart.
SUZY: I'm sorry
GREG: Sam, she didn't mean Sam is shaking his head no as they reach the gate for the Seattle plane.
SAM: I know, I know. ( emphatic ) Look, it doesn't happen twice.
ANNIE: I'm going to meet someone, someone nice and stable who wears a hat so he won't catch a cold, and I'm going to marry him and have three children and live happily ever after. I mean, I am not cut out for this
DIANE: For what?
ANNIE: For life as we know it.
LAURIE: Just make sure he isn't fat like my Michael or you'll spend your whole life worrying he's going to drop dead.
JUDITH: God, you guys are so romantic.
ANNIE: Do you know how long romance ( she snaps her fingers ) That long.
DIANE: Steven still brings me flowers every Friday and we've been married 10 years.
LAURIE: ( to Diane ) Honey, nobody wants to hear ( to Annie ) Here, darling, have some Tic Kissing everyone. Annie starts toward the plane, loaded with stuff.
ANNIE: The next time you see me I am going to be incredibly happy.
SAM: I'm your dad. Don't ever forget that. That's rule number two. ( beat ) It's you and me, kid.
ANNIE: ( to herself ) I guess it's just us. She gulps.
WALTER: The short one with black hair is your cousin Irene
ANNIE: who's married to
WALTER: Harold, who ran away with his secretary but came back
ANNIE: because Irene threatened to put the dog to sleep if he And your brother Tom is a psychology professor and is married to.Betsy
WALTER: And your brother Tom is a psychology professor and is married to.Betsy
ANNIE: who is the most competitive woman in the world They put the presents in the backs of their two cars and pull out together.
WALTER: Your Uncle Milton lost all his money in a Puerto Rican condominium that went belly up, don't mention the IRS or the Federal prison system. Your mother is Barbara, your father is Cliff
ANNIE: I hope he doesn't get out his Am I what they had in mind?
WALTER: Am I what they had in mind?
ANNIE: They're going to love you. As they start toward the house.
BARBARA: Everybody! Annie has an announcement
ANNIE: Walter and I are engaged! And the family's at the diner table. Annie's family is a completely normally-looking WASP family only everyone is a little eccentric. Annie's mother BARBARA, a beautiful gray-haired, fantastically cheerful woman, claps her hands together. Her father CLIFF, who's at the head of the table next to her, gives Annie a kiss. Annie's brother TOM and his wife BETSY are at the table, along with cousin IRENE and her husband HAROLD. UNCLE MILTON, who's Irene's father and Barbara's brother. There are about FIVE CHILDREN there, too.
IRENE: That's wonderful, Annie. I hope it lasts. for years and years.
BETSY: ( the competitive one ) Do you have a ring?
ANNIE: No. Not yet.
BETSY: Oh. Well. How will anyone Because you're going to call them all and tell them. Congratulations, Walter. He claps Walter on the back. Walter sneezes. And sneezes again.
TOM: Because you're going to call them all and tell them. Congratulations, Walter. He claps Walter on the back. Walter sneezes. And sneezes again.
CLIFF: Are you all right?
WALTER: It's nothing. Nothing.
ANNIE: It's probably just the flowers
BARBARA: We'll move them
WALTER: Don't touch them. I feel terrible sneezing at a time like this. This is a big moment for me
ANNIE: ( overlapping ) He's allergic to everything, don't worry about it
HAROLD: Bees. I'm allergic to bees.
CLIFF: Not salmon I hope
ANNIE: If he eats one tiny piece of a ( cheerfully ) My head swells up like a watermelon and I drop dead.
WALTER: ( cheerfully ) My head swells up like a watermelon and I drop dead.
IRENE: It's the same with Harold and Your mother and I had salmon at our wedding, and I really think a wedding without cold salmon
CLIFF: Your mother and I had salmon at our wedding, and I really think a wedding without cold salmon
WALTER: I'm not allergic to salmon. I don't think. But you never You never know.
HAROLD: You never know.
BARBARA: Oh, honey, I feel terrible, we used up this magnum of champagne we were saving on something else, what did we use it for?
TOM: Uncle Milton's parole
BARBARA: UNCLE MILTON
UNCLE MILTON: And it was delicious.
BARBARA: It was, wasn't it, Milton When are you getting married, In early June. In the garden.
BETSY: When are you getting married, In early June. In the garden.
CLIFF: In early June. In the garden.
HAROLD: Does it have to be in the garden?
IRENE: What about Harold and bees?
BARBARA: We'll spray you.
CLIFF: Cold salmon. A lovely cucumber salad. Strawberries.
WALTER: I'm afraid I'm allergic to No strawberries. Annie smiles at Walter.
CLIFF: No strawberries. Annie smiles at Walter.
ANNIE: ( to Walter ) Is that all right with you?
WALTER: ( to Lou Gehrig line ) Today I consider myself the luckiest man on the face of the earth.
IRENE: What are you wearing?
ANNIE: I don't know.
BETSY: I wish you would wear my dress. I only wore it once, and you'll barely have to do anything to it except take it in in the I have something that might do
BARBARA: I have something that might do
BARBARA: The Historical Society wanted this and I never would give it to them
ANNIE: Granny's dress. Oh, Mom.
BARBARA: I notice these things are back in fashion. Oh, honey. ( tears are rolling down He's a lovely man, Annie.
ANNIE: I know. He's wonderful, isn't Are his folks nice?
BARBARA: Are his folks nice?
ANNIE: You'll love them. We're going down to D.C. tonight to be with them Christmas morning.
BARBARA: How did it happen? Barbara starts to unbutton the tiny buttons on the back of the dress and remove it from the dummy.
ANNIE: It's silly, really. I mean, I'd seen him at the office, obviously I'd seen him, he's the associate publisher, and then one day we both ordered sandwiches from the same place, and he got my lettuce and tomato sandwich on whole wheat, which of course he was allergic to, and I got his lettuce and tomato on white.
BARBARA: ( utterly without irony ) How amazing.
ANNIE: It is, isn't it? You make millions of decisions that mean nothing and then one day you decide to order takeout and it changes your life.
BARBARA: Destiny takes a hand.
ANNIE: Oh, please. Destiny's just something we've invented because we can't stand the fact that everything that happens is Then how do you explain that you both ordered exactly the same sandwich except for the bread? How many people in this world like lettuce and tomato without something else like It wasn't a sign. It was a Barbara shrugs, slips the dress off the dummy and Annie steps into it. Barbra starts to button the dress on Annie.
BARBARA: Then how do you explain that you both ordered exactly the same sandwich except for the bread? How many people in this world like lettuce and tomato without something else like It wasn't a sign. It was a Barbara shrugs, slips the dress off the dummy and Annie steps into it. Barbra starts to button the dress on Annie.
ANNIE: It wasn't a sign. It was a Barbara shrugs, slips the dress off the dummy and Annie steps into it. Barbra starts to button the dress on Annie.
BARBARA: I was in Atlantic City with my family. Cliff was a waiter. He talked me into sneaking out for a midnight walk on the Steel Pier. I've probably told you this a million times, but I don't care. And then he held my hand. I was scared. All sorts of thing were going through my head. But after a while I forgot about them. At one point I looked down, at our hands, and I couldn't tell which fingers were mine and which were his. And I knew.
ANNIE: ( hearing it for the You know.
BARBARA: You know.
ANNIE: ( she doesn't know, but Magic. It was magic.
BARBARA: Magic. It was magic.
ANNIE: ( repeating ) I knew we would be together forever, and that everything would be wonderful, just the way you feel about Walter. Walter. It's quite a formal name, isn't it? ( lowering her voice ) One of the things I truly knew was that your father and I were going to have a wonderful time . in the sack I believe you call it
BARBARA: I knew we would be together forever, and that everything would be wonderful, just the way you feel about Walter. Walter. It's quite a formal name, isn't it? ( lowering her voice ) One of the things I truly knew was that your father and I were going to have a wonderful time . in the sack I believe you call it
ANNIE: Of course it took several years before everything worked like clockwork in that department, so don't be worried if it takes a while
BARBARA: Of course it took several years before everything worked like clockwork in that department, so don't be worried if it takes a while
ANNIE: Mom, we already.
BARBARA: Well, fine, fine. Fiddle da dee. And how's it working?
ANNIE: Like. clockwork. She turns to look in the mirror. The dress doesn't fit at all. It's completely lopsided. One shoulder is higher than the other. The waist is in the wrong spot. The effect is quite comical.
BARBARA: So you'll get married in a new It's a sign.
ANNIE: It's a sign.
BARBARA: ( gently ) You don't believe in signs.
ANNIE: They loved you. I told you they would love you and they I love you.
WALTER: I love you.
ANNIE: I love you, Walter. ( beat ) Did anyone ever call you anything other than Walter?
WALTER: Even when you were young?
ANNIE: Even when you were young?
WALTER: Nope. Not even when I was It's starting to rain.
WALTER: You sure you don't want to drive with me?
ANNIE: How will I get back to Baltimore Saturday? ( remembering something ) Oh God, I forgot my present for your stepmother I took it inside by accident.
WALTER: I'll wait.
ANNIE: Don't be silly. I'll just be ten minutes behind you.
ANNIE: Give me a break. Annie changes the station.
RADIO VOICE: The subject of the evening's medical update is You and Your Spleen and our host She flips the dial back the other way.
RADIO VOICE: Coming up, Jingle Bells backwards, sung by the New Jersey Cape Mayettes Annie twists the dial back the other way. We hear a YOUNG BOY's voice.
ANNIE: I don't believe this
ANNIE: They lose their minds and call crackpot doctors on the radio
ANNIE: Perfect. Sandbag the father.
JONAH: What is it?
SAM: What is it?
ANNIE: This is completely disgusting.
SAM: DR. MARCIA FIELDSTONE ( V.O. ) Sam looks across the room to Jonah.
SAM: I'm probably not interested in whatever you're selling.
SAM: ( he really didn't get Who is this?
SAM: Jesus, are we on the air? Jonah, for God's sake
JONAH: Don't be mad at me, Dad. Sam can see Jonah. He's frightened. Sam immediately feels how upset Jonah is.
SAM: ( to Jonah ) I'm not mad at you. Okay, I'm not mad at you.
JONAH: INT. ANNIE'S CAR - NIGHT
ANNIE: This is a grotesque violation of this man's personal life, but never mind
SAM: It's been about a year and a DR. MARCIA FIELDSTONE ( V.O. ) Have you had any relationship Sam is very uncomfortable about this
SAM: Sam is very uncomfortable about this
SAM: Look, Doctor, I don't want to be rude, but
ANNIE: Sure you do.
SAM: Look, we had a tough time at first, but I think I'm holding my own as a dad, and Jonah and I will get along fine again as soon as I break his radio. Annie laughs. So does Mr. Fieldstone
JONAH: Tell her how you don't sleep at How do you know that? Sam and Jonah both talk into their extensions, literally talking to each other on the phone within their own house, but also ON THE AIR.
SAM: How do you know that? Sam and Jonah both talk into their extensions, literally talking to each other on the phone within their own house, but also ON THE AIR.
JONAH: I can hear you walking around sometimes. At first I thought it was a robber. Go ahead, tell her, Dad.
SAM: I don't think I have to now. Sam starts across the room towards Jonah, who starts toward him, both of them holding their phone receivers. On the wall in the dining area is a pine bench.
SAM: Look, it's almost Christmas ( as the two of them sit A kid needs a mother He puts an arm around Jonah.
ANNIE: Annie catches herself, covers her mouth in embarrassment.
ANNIE: I'm losing my mind.
SAM: What's she talking about?
JONAH: This is where other people get to call in and dump on what you We hear the beginning of a commercial.
LORETTA: I'll bet he's tall, with a cute I'll bet he hasn't shaved in a week. I'll bet he stinks.
HARRIET: I'll bet he hasn't shaved in a week. I'll bet he stinks.
LORETTA: Shut up, Harriet. ( to Annie ) What'll it be?
ANNIE: Coffee, please. Black. To go.
LORETTA: Maybe I should hustle myself out to Seattle. Give him a little present for New Year's You can go there if you want but don't open his refrigerator. They don't cover anything when they put it in the fridge. They just stick it in and leave it there till it walks out by Harriet, ever since you divorced your last husband, you've been no fun. I'm looking, and this guy pops my TRUCK DRIVER Come on, Loretta, you're going to have to jump-start this guy. His battery's dead. And look at me. Mister Ever-Ready. Every six minutes, another I'm looking for someone Come on, nobody wants a guy who's sensitive on the radio.
HARRIET: You can go there if you want but don't open his refrigerator. They don't cover anything when they put it in the fridge. They just stick it in and leave it there till it walks out by Harriet, ever since you divorced your last husband, you've been no fun. I'm looking, and this guy pops my TRUCK DRIVER Come on, Loretta, you're going to have to jump-start this guy. His battery's dead. And look at me. Mister Ever-Ready. Every six minutes, another I'm looking for someone Come on, nobody wants a guy who's sensitive on the radio.
LORETTA: Harriet, ever since you divorced your last husband, you've been no fun. I'm looking, and this guy pops my TRUCK DRIVER Come on, Loretta, you're going to have to jump-start this guy. His battery's dead. And look at me. Mister Ever-Ready. Every six minutes, another I'm looking for someone Come on, nobody wants a guy who's sensitive on the radio.
TRUCK DRIVER: Come on, Loretta, you're going to have to jump-start this guy. His battery's dead. And look at me. Mister Ever-Ready. Every six minutes, another I'm looking for someone Come on, nobody wants a guy who's sensitive on the radio.
LORETTA: I'm looking for someone Come on, nobody wants a guy who's sensitive on the radio.
ANNIE: Come on, nobody wants a guy who's sensitive on the radio.
LORETTA: ( to the radio ) Honey, get on line.
SAM: I don't know. When I met my wife, it was so clear. I just Annie is listening now.
SAM: I don't think I could really describe it.
SAM: And if I could describe it, it probably wouldn't be on a radio ( he laughs to himself ) But what the hell. It's not one specific thing. It's more of a feeling. ( continued ) Annie coasts to a stop outside a handsome mansion in Washington, D.C., the motor running. She's hooked now, she's not getting out of the car until she's heard it You touch her for the first time, and suddenly. you're home. It's almost like.
SAM: You touch her for the first time, and suddenly. you're home. It's almost like.
ANNIE: CLOSER ON ANNIE realizing she has just said this. Realizing that it must mean something but not knowing what.
SAM: CLOSER ON ANNIE realizing she has just said this. Realizing that it must mean something but not knowing what.
WALTER: ( muffled, outside car ) DR. MARCIA FIELDSTONE ( V.O. ) and taps again.
WALTER: She turns. He's pointing at the locked door. She searches for the button. Finally finds it so that Walter can open the door.
ANNIE: I'm sorry, Walter. I just heard the most amazing thing on the radio. They start toward the front door, Walter and Annie carrying presents, an overnight bag of Annie's.
ANNIE: People call up these shows and you can't believe the stuff they say. It's the end of privacy as we know it, this country is just one big global village with everyone out there going blah blah blah As they enter the house, we hear Silent Night and we see a Christmas tree, glittering with lights.
SAM: The hopes are perfect beautiful, identical, smooth and they are for something really amazing I feel it in my It's a spice rack.
JONAH: It's a spice rack.
SAM: We desperately need a spice rack. Desperately.
SAM: And we desperately need spices. Where Sam is putting the spices they have pepper, salt, paprika and oregano into the spice rack, which has room for at least twenty more. Jonah is methodically making pancakes.
JONAH: Dad? About last night?
SAM: It's never happening again. There's a knock on the door.
JONAH: There's a knock on the door.
SAM: Then it never happened. Sam goes to answer the door. TWO YOUNG WOMEN are standing there. Both are wearing quite a lot of Spandex. One of them is named LULU. It says so on her jacket. The other is JOBETH.
SAM: Hi. Sam?
LULU: Hi. Sam?
SAM: ( looking in and seeing You must be Jonah. Jonah nods.
LULU: ( looking in and seeing You must be Jonah. Jonah nods.
LULU: ( to her friend ) See. I told you. Sam and Jonah. I'm LULU. This is JoBeth nods, and continues to nod as Lulu talks.
LULU: ( continues ) We live two piers over, don't we? Number 12, right? We're having like a really neat open house today from like four to whenever if you care to stop Thanks, but. we've got plans.
SAM: Thanks, but. we've got plans.
LULU: Well, here's the number. If you ever find yourself Sleepless, give us a call. We also. do babysitting. She winks. JoBeth nods. Sam nods. Lulu waves goodbye, and she and JoBeth sashay off down the dock. Jonah closes the door and turns to Sam.
JONAH: My feelings exactly.
SAM: My feelings exactly.
SAM: How many people do you think heard that thing last night?
JONAH: It plays in 50 states.
SAM: Nobody else is going to know it was us.
JONAH: Nobody else is going to know it was us.
SAM: You're right. ( after a beat ) You better hope so.
KEITH: This man sells the greatest soup you've ever eaten, there's a line around the block, and he is, I am not kidding, the meanest man in America. ( beat ) I feel strongly about this, Becky. This is not just about Do it. What else?
BECKY: Do it. What else?
WYATT: New Year's Eve. Please don't make me write it. Becky looks at Wyatt, notices the Gameboy.
BECKY: Wyatt, I do not mean to remind you of your mother, but if you don't put that game away, no TV for a week.
WYATT: ( pushing it to the Would someone look this up, don't tell me where. Becky is riffling through some papers on the table, among which are some tearsheets from the Associated Press wire.
BECKY: Listen to this. Phone service in the greater Chicago area was tied up for two hours Christmas Eve because some kid called a phone-in show to get a wife for his father. Two thousand women called in for the number.
KEITH: I heard it. This kid calls up and says my dad needs a wife and I'm talking to myself in the car saying, this is completely disgusting, you're taking advantage of a child, and then the father gets on and this shrinkette says, do you want to talk about it? And he says no as a matter of fact I don't, and I am saying, bravo! Right on! Don't talk to her, it's none of her business ( she's completely into and then suddenly, for no reason at all, he's talking about how much he loved his wife, and how he just ( she snaps her fingers ) fell in love with her and I am crying. Me. A tear is actually rolling down my face. It was like what happens when I watch those phone company ads. I don't have to see the whole ad, I just have to see the part where the daughter gives her mother a refrigerator with a big red bow on it, have you seen that one? Everyone looks at her. Apparently she's finished.
ANNIE: I heard it. This kid calls up and says my dad needs a wife and I'm talking to myself in the car saying, this is completely disgusting, you're taking advantage of a child, and then the father gets on and this shrinkette says, do you want to talk about it? And he says no as a matter of fact I don't, and I am saying, bravo! Right on! Don't talk to her, it's none of her business ( she's completely into and then suddenly, for no reason at all, he's talking about how much he loved his wife, and how he just ( she snaps her fingers ) fell in love with her and I am crying. Me. A tear is actually rolling down my face. It was like what happens when I watch those phone company ads. I don't have to see the whole ad, I just have to see the part where the daughter gives her mother a refrigerator with a big red bow on it, have you seen that one? Everyone looks at her. Apparently she's finished.
BECKY: You should write something about this.
ANNIE: About what?
BECKY: Whatever it is.
KEITH: ( waving the AP story ) What it is is, there are a lot of desperate women out there looking for love.
WYATT: Especially over a certain age. Annie is looking at them. This isn't what she was talking about at all, although she isn't quite sure what she was talking about.
KEITH: It is easier to be killed by a terrorist after the age of 40 than it is to get married
ANNIE: That is not true. That statistic is not true.
BECKY: It's not true, but it feels There's practically a whole book about how that statistic is not true
ANNIE: There's practically a whole book about how that statistic is not true
WYATT: Calm down. You brought it up
ANNIE: ( sharply ) I did not, Wyatt. A beat, everyone pauses. Things are a little out of So where were we?
BECKY: So where were we?
WYATT: New Year's Eve. I'll do it, If someone is a widower, why do they say he was widowed? Why don't they say he was widowered? Everyone looks at her strangely.
BECKY: If someone is a widower, why do they say he was widowed? Why don't they say he was widowered? Everyone looks at her strangely.
ANNIE: If someone is a widower, why do they say he was widowed? Why don't they say he was widowered? Everyone looks at her strangely.
ANNIE: I was jus wondering.
BECKY: What was that about up there?
ANNIE: What was what?
BECKY: What's with you?
ANNIE: Nothing's with me.
BECKY: "Sleepless in Seattle"?
ANNIE: That's what she called him on the show. Because he can't And now 2,000 women want his number. The guy could be a crackhead, a psychopath, a flasher, a junkie, a transvestite, a chain-saw murderer, or someone really sick, like Rick.
BECKY: And now 2,000 women want his number. The guy could be a crackhead, a psychopath, a flasher, a junkie, a transvestite, a chain-saw murderer, or someone really sick, like Rick.
ANNIE: Actually, he sounded nice.
BECKY: Oh? Oh, really? Now we're getting down to it.
ANNIE: She reaches down for her purse.
BOB LANGMAN: Now she wants a circular stairwell off the den.
JAY: ( to Jonah, in b.g. ) Punch me, punch in right here. ( points to his stomach; And she wants the Sub-Zero with the side-by-side doors
BOB: Which means
SAM: The cabinets have to be redone
BOB: So we thought
JAY: Since you're on the make again
SAM: Great. This is great. The whole town knows. Just out of curiosity, how do you two know?
BOB: Grace heard it.
SAM: Grace the dispatcher. Great.
BOB: The point is, take the client out to dinner and ask her to marry you and then maybe we won't have to redo the kitchen Why me? What about Jay?
SAM: Why me? What about Jay?
JAY: Hey, my plate is full.
SAM: Well, okay. What's the big deal? If she'll forget the new fireplace, I'll marry her. Just point me in the right Dad, I don't know about this Oh, you're changing your mind
JONAH: Dad, I don't know about this Oh, you're changing your mind
SAM: Oh, you're changing your mind
JONAH: No, I'm not, but
SAM: What's the matter with this one? Wouldn't you like to have Imelda Marcos as your mother?
JONAH: Sam cuffs him good-naturedly.
SAM: We better take the measurements for the new cabinets. He walks away past some workmen, ladders, etc. and starts checking the cross-beams in the ceiling over in another area of the site. Bob follows after him. Jay tosses Jonah a hammer and they start knocking nails into the wall.
BOB: Sam, if you're not doing anything New Year's obviously you're not doing anything New Year's we're having some people over, all of them married, not one even remotely interested in playing around. Does that sound great or what? ( whistfully ) I can't think of the last time I was at a party when anything actually happened.
SAM: Thanks, but I'll pass. It's kind of a big night. I don't like to leave Jonah alone.
SAM: ( as he starts putting Does red pepper go under R or
P?: ( beat ) ( absently ) I forgot to mention. Jed Just out of curiosity, do you have any friends whose names don't begin with a J? I feel like it was a failure of the imagination on our part naming you Jonah. What is marjoram? Does anyone Jed is having a slumber party New Year's Eve and he invited A beat.
JONAH: ( beat ) ( absently ) I forgot to mention. Jed Just out of curiosity, do you have any friends whose names don't begin with a J? I feel like it was a failure of the imagination on our part naming you Jonah. What is marjoram? Does anyone Jed is having a slumber party New Year's Eve and he invited A beat.
SAM: ( absently ) I forgot to mention. Jed Just out of curiosity, do you have any friends whose names don't begin with a J? I feel like it was a failure of the imagination on our part naming you Jonah. What is marjoram? Does anyone Jed is having a slumber party New Year's Eve and he invited A beat.
JONAH: I forgot to mention. Jed Just out of curiosity, do you have any friends whose names don't begin with a J? I feel like it was a failure of the imagination on our part naming you Jonah. What is marjoram? Does anyone Jed is having a slumber party New Year's Eve and he invited A beat.
SAM: Just out of curiosity, do you have any friends whose names don't begin with a J? I feel like it was a failure of the imagination on our part naming you Jonah. What is marjoram? Does anyone Jed is having a slumber party New Year's Eve and he invited A beat.
JONAH: Jed is having a slumber party New Year's Eve and he invited A beat.
SAM: Fine. Fine.
JONAH: So I can go.
SAM: ( almost done with the Looking good.
JONAH: Shouldn't you have used a toggle bolt?
SAM: I think I know how to have a spice rack. He puts in the last spice. They stand back to admire it. A beat. The rack falls off the wall. The rack itself doesn't break, but about six of the glass jars of spices break. There's paprika and thyme and currying powder, etc. all over the floor along with shards of glass.
SAM: God fucking dammit! Shit! Fuck. Piss. Jonah bursts into tears.
SAM: ( still angry ) I'm sorry. ( softening ) I'm sorry. He picks up Jonah and holds him.
SAM: I'm sorry. I'm just
JONAH: Right. I'm sorry, Jonah, I'm And he holds Jonah as Jonah calms down. Sam closes his eyes tight.
SAM: Right. I'm sorry, Jonah, I'm And he holds Jonah as Jonah calms down. Sam closes his eyes tight.
A VOICE: Can I have half your beer?
SAM: It's Maggie. She takes his bottle of beer and pours half of it into a
MAGGIE: What did I used to say? Here's looking at you? Here's mud in your eye?
SAM: Here's to us. You used to say here's to us. ( he looks at her and Oh babe. I miss you so much it He reaches out for her. She's gone. And we hear the television set now counting down to midnight in New York.
WALTER: Happy New Year, darling.
ANNIE: Happy New Year. They start to dance.
WALTER: I was thinking, I have to go up to Boston for the AAP convention and then visit Winston-Hughes about switching over our computers. Why don't we meet in New York for Valentine's Day weekend?
ANNIE: Walter, I'd love to
WALTER: We'll stay at the Plaza
ANNIE: Go for a walk in Central Park
WALTER: Go to the Symphony A beat.
ANNIE: We will? ( beat ) The Symphony? ( beat ) ( beat ) I'll take you to the Russian Tea Room for pelmeni.
WALTER: What is it?
ANNIE: It's delicious, trust me.
WALTER: Does it have wheat in it?
ANNIE: I don't think so. They go on dancing. It's one of those parties where everyone looks so happy and so in love. Annie, however, looks thoughtful.
JONAH: Look at this, Dad. They're all for you Sam picks up an envelop and looks at it. It's addressed to Sleepless in Seattle c/o Dr. Marcia Fieldstone, Radio Station KWRS in Chicago. He's stunned. As he signs the receipt:
MAILMAN: If you're having trouble sleeping, you might want to try drinking a glass of water from the other side.
JONAH: I thought that was for hiccups.
MAILMAN: Does it work for hiccups?
JONAH: For hiccups, a spoonful of sugar, you hold it in your mouth for a minute.
MAILMAN: The mailman starts back toward the mail truck. Sam and Jonah start toward the door.
SAM: Just out of curiosity, how did they get our address?
JONAH: They called and asked for it. ( reading ) "Dear Sleepless in Seattle. You are the most attractive man I've ever laid ears on." Jonah rolls his eyes, tosses the letter into a pile of rejects, opens another.
SAM: How did they get our phone You have to give them your phone number or they won't let you go on the air. Sam nods as if this makes perfect sense.
JONAH: You have to give them your phone number or they won't let you go on the air. Sam nods as if this makes perfect sense.
JONAH: ( continues, reading ) "Dear Sleepless in Seattle: I am an SWF" ( to Sam ) What is that?
SAM: Thank God. Something you don't know. It's a single white This is no good. She's looking for someone French. Or Greek. ( puzzled, he throws the "Dear Sleepless in Seattle: I live in Tulsa." Where is that?
JONAH: This is no good. She's looking for someone French. Or Greek. ( puzzled, he throws the "Dear Sleepless in Seattle: I live in Tulsa." Where is that?
SAM: Oklahoma. Do you know where that is?
JONAH: Somewhere in the middle.
SAM: I'm not going to think about what they're not teaching you in school. I am not going to think about it. Generally speaking I think we should rule out people who don't live somewhere near here
JONAH: She's willing to fly anywhere. As Jonah hands Sam the picture.
SAM: She looks like my third grade teacher. I hated my third grade teacher. Hold it! Wait a minute! She is my third grade teacher!
JONAH: Dad, you're not taking this This is not how you do it. ( referring to the You want this on an English muffin or a bun?
SAM: This is not how you do it. ( referring to the You want this on an English muffin or a bun?
JONAH: English muffin. How do you do You see someone you like, you get a feeling about them, you ask them if they want to have a drink or
SAM: You see someone you like, you get a feeling about them, you ask them if they want to have a drink or
JONAH: a slice of pizza
SAM: But not dinner necessarily on the first date because by the time you're halfway through dinner you might be sorry you asked them to dinner whereas if it's just a drink, if you like them you can always ask them for dinner but if you don't you can go home if you see what I I wonder if it still works this It doesn't. They ask you.
JONAH: It doesn't. They ask you.
SAM: I'm starting to notice that.
JONAH: In the movies women are always scratching up guy's back and screaming and stuff. When they're having sex.
SAM: Whose show was this on?
JONAH: Jed's got cables.
SAM: Go to sleep. He kisses him good-night.
JONAH: Kiss Howard. ( he holds out the G'night, Howard.
THE RADIO: She stands up, turns it on to the station Dr. Marcia Fieldstone is on. She sits back down with her corn
ANNIE: I think I'm going crazy, Tom. I really do. Are you happily ( completely panicked by I mean, why did you get married? Was it all fireworks and trumpets and
TOM: ( completely panicked by I mean, why did you get married? Was it all fireworks and trumpets and
ANNIE: I mean, why did you get married? Was it all fireworks and trumpets and
TOM: ( regaining composure ) I got married because Betsy said we had to break up or get married. So we get married.
ANNIE: But when you met her, did you believe she was the only person for you? That in some mystical, cosmic way, it was fated?
TOM: Annie, when you meet someone and you're attracted to them, it just means that your subconscious is attracted to their subconscious, subconsciously. So what we think of as chemistry is just two neuroses knowing that they are a perfect match.
ANNIE: I don't even know him. But I'm having all these fantasies about a man I've never met, who lives in Seattle.
TOM: It rains nine months of the year in Seattle.
ANNIE: I know, I know. I do not want to move to Seattle. But what I really don't want to do is end up always wondering what might have happened and knowing I could have done something. What do you think? ( Tom opens his mouth to It's just cold feet, isn't it? Everyone panics before they get married, didn't you?
TOM: Yes, I did.
ANNIE: Thank you, Tom. I feel so much better just having blown this Any time.
TOM: Any time.
JAY: Sandy has a girlfriend, Clenda . She's a weightlifter, but it's not like her neck is bigger than her head or I'm not asking you to set me up, Jay. That's not what I need your help for. I want to know what it's like over there.
SAM: I'm not asking you to set me up, Jay. That's not what I need your help for. I want to know what it's like over there.
JAY: And that's what I'm trying to tell you. What women are looking over, okay? Pecs and a cute butt.
SAM: You mean, like, "He has the cutest butt"? Where did I hear that recently?
JAY: Everywhere. You can't even turn on the news without hearing about how some babe thought some guy's butt was cute. Who the first babe to say this was I don't know, but it caught on.
JAY: When's the latest time you were out there?
SAM: ( trying to remember ) Seventy. eight.
JAY: Well. Things are different. First, you have to be friends. You have to like each other. Then you neck. This can go on for years. Then you have tests. Then you get to do it with a condom. ( beat ) The good news is, split the I don't think it could let a woman pay for dinner.
SAM: I don't think it could let a woman pay for dinner.
JAY: Great. They'll have a parade in your honor. You'll be Man of the Year in Seattle Magazine. Tira misu.
SAM: What's tira misu?
JAY: You'll find out.
SAM: What is it?
JAY: You'll see.
SAM: Some woman is going to want me to do it to her and I'm not going to know what it is.
JAY: You'll like it.
SAM: ( grimly ) This is going to be tougher than I thought.
SAM: No answers.
SAM: He starts to look concerned.
SAM: He goes down the hall to Jonah's room. The door is shut. He opens it. Jonah is sitting on his bed listening to a tape. Earphones on. Next to him is a young girl named
SAM: Jonah takes off the earphones.
JONAH: Hi, Dad. Dad, this is Jessica.
SAM: It's nice to meet you, Jessica.
JONAH: Dad, this is amazing. If you play this backwards, it says "Paul is dead."
SAM: I know.
JONAH: How do you know? Sam shrugs, turns to go back down the hall.
JONAH: Dad, could you close the door?
JESSICA: H and G. ( Sam looks back ) Hi and goodbye. Sam closes the door to Jonah's room. Hold on Sam.
SAM: ( to himself ) Get a life.
SAM: Hi, Victoria?. It's Sam Baldwin, I don't know if you remember me. Oh? Well, great. I was wondering if you wanted to have a drink. Friday, say. Dinner?. Sure, dinner would be fine. Sure. Dinner.
ANNIE: Now those were the days when people knew how to be in love. She takes a blast from the wine glass to her right. Becky leans in, refilling the glass. Annie begins to type and sob and look at the TV.
BECKY: You're a basket case.
ANNIE: ( as she types ) They knew it. Time, distance, nothing could separate them. Because they knew. It was right. It was real. It was.
BECKY: . movie. ( beat ) That's your problem. You don't want to be in love. You want to be in love in a movie. ( beat ) Read it to me.
ANNIE: ( reading her letter ) "Dear Sleepless and Son."
BECKY: It sounds like the name of a mattress store
ANNIE: "I am not the sort of person who listens to call-in radio Becky flops on the couch.
BECKY: And this woman is a writer! That's what everyone writes at the beginning of letters to I know that. You think I don't know that? "I know that's a dumb way to begin, but it's the only way I can think of to convey what happened to me the other night when I heard the two of you on the radio. On the other hand, maybe I'm just losing my mind."
ANNIE: I know that. You think I don't know that? "I know that's a dumb way to begin, but it's the only way I can think of to convey what happened to me the other night when I heard the two of you on the radio. On the other hand, maybe I'm just losing my mind."
BECKY: You are. You're losing your mind. What about Walter?
ANNIE: I'm going to marry Walter. I just have to get this out of my I should say something in this about magic.
BECKY: I should say something in this about magic.
ANNIE: I should say something in this about magic.
BECKY: I don't know. I mean, what if I never meet him? What if this man is my destiny and I never meet him?
ANNIE: I don't know. I mean, what if I never meet him? What if this man is my destiny and I never meet him?
BECKY: Your destiny can be your doom. Look at me and Rick.
ANNIE: ( typing some more ) "I want to meet you." Cary Grant says: "How about the top of the Empire State "On top of the Empire State Building at sunset on Valentine's Day."
BECKY: "On top of the Empire State Building at sunset on Valentine's Day."
ANNIE: Good. Perfect. I'll be in New York with Walter, I can squeeze it in. She types in Becky's idea. Then she takes the piece of paper out of the typewriter, smashes it into a ball and tosses it up in the air and into Becky's lap.
BECKY: You want to hear about destiny? If my husband hadn't gone on a diet, which caused me to leave him, I would never have been on that flight to Miami, and met Rick, and ended up having sex in the bathroom of a 727 with that nob you slide that says "vacant-occupied, vacant- occupied, vacant-occupied" ( she shudders in
ANNIE: You never told me you left your husband because he went on a ( nods; after a beat ) He lost all the weight. That's impossible. A guy can't
BECKY: ( nods; after a beat ) He lost all the weight. That's impossible. A guy can't
ANNIE: That's impossible. A guy can't
BECKY: Can too.
ANNIE: And then you left him? He lost weight there and you left him?
BECKY: And then you left him? He lost weight there and you left him?
ANNIE: And then you left him? He lost weight there and you left him?
BECKY: Plus he fell in love with a Listen to this, I love this Deborah Kerr says: "It's now or never." And Cary Grant says: "We'd be fools to let happiness pass us by." Deborah Kerr: "Winter must be cold for those with no warm memories." Becky and Annie with tears rolling down their faces.
ANNIE: Listen to this, I love this Deborah Kerr says: "It's now or never." And Cary Grant says: "We'd be fools to let happiness pass us by." Deborah Kerr: "Winter must be cold for those with no warm memories." Becky and Annie with tears rolling down their faces.
BECKY: Men never get this movie.
ANNIE: I know.
BECKY: Do you think at the end of the movie when she's in the wheelchair they can still do I always wondered about that As Becky reaches for a Kleenex.
ANNIE: I always wondered about that As Becky reaches for a Kleenex.
SAM: It's okay, it's okay. I'm A beat while Jonah calms down.
JONAH: It was sinking.
SAM: What was?
JONAH: Our house. There was water coming in all the windows.
SAM: ( calm and definite ) You're worried we're going to be all right. We're going to be all right. ( Sam gives Jonah a I remember sometimes you'd have nightmares as a baby. Your mom would hold you and rock you and sing you a song.
JONAH: Bye bye blackbird.
SAM: Is that what she used to sing?
JONAH: I miss her. ( beat ) What do you think happens to someone after they die?
SAM: I don't know.
JONAH: Like do you believe in heaven?
SAM: I never did. Or the whole idea of an afterlife. But I don't know any more. I have these dreams about. your mom. and we have long talks about. about you, and how you are, which she sort of knows but I tell her anyway. So what is that? It's sort of an afterlife, isn't it?
JONAH: I'm starting to forget her.
SAM: I know. But she's here, Jonah. Because I have you. And as long as I have you, I have your Hold on the two of them as music begins. Bye Bye I. uh. have a date with someone Friday night.
SAM: I. uh. have a date with someone Friday night.
JONAH: A beat.
SAM: Did I ever tell you about the time I ate a dog biscuit? As Jonah cuddles closer MUSIC COMES UP AS WE PULL BACK
ANNIE: Laurie, it's Annie. Fine, I'm fine. Listen, I'm doing an article on call-in radio shows. Do you know anyone who works for someone named Dr. Marcia Annie on the phone.
ANNIE: I'm a writer for the Baltimore Sun and I'm a friend of Laurie Johnson's. I'm doing a piece on how people handle bereavement and I understand that you had a caller the other night. I know you're not supposed to, but Laurie said you might, and I'll plug the show and everything ( she winces in
ANNIE: CUT TO: Annie at her computer modem. She's dialing a number. We hear some beeps.
COMPUTER SCREEN: Directory. Enter password. ( Annie types ) Ann Reed. BSun124. ( computer ) ( Annie types ) Samuel Baldwin. ( computer types ) 216 Samuel Baldwin. Strike Y to printout or enter factors. ( Annie types ) Samuel Baldwin, Seattle. ( there's a pause ) Not found. ( Annie thinks for a Samuel Baldwin, Jonah Baldwin. ( a pause ) Samuel Baldwin, Jonah Baldwin found. Strike Y to printout or enter factors. ( Annie types Y ) And now on the computer screen, we see a funeral notice from the Chicago Tribune that reads: Baldwin, Margaret Abbott, beloved wife of Samuel, mother of Jonah, June 10, Funeral 10 a.m. Thursday, Church of the Heavenly Rest, 110 N. State, in lieu of flowers contributions should be sent to Chicago Horticultural Society. And then there's a citation: Chicago Tribune, June 12, 1989. Annie types another entry.
ANNIE: ( typing ) Samuel. Baldwin, Chicago. ( after a beat ) Four Samuel Baldwins. Strike Y to printout. ( Annie strikes Y ) Samuel Baldwin, arrested for grand larceny, 1961. Samuel Baldwin, alderman, convicted of accepting bribes, 1967. Samuel J. Baldwin, architect, built City Plaza. ( Annie presses Y )
ANNIE: I need to know about him because. he's involved with my sister.
DET. WHEEDLE: She has a pattern of getting involved with losers. Once she almost ran away with a human cannonball from the DET. WHEEDLE Do you want a matrimonial, past wives, any kids
ANNIE: She has a pattern of getting involved with losers. Once she almost ran away with a human cannonball from the DET. WHEEDLE Do you want a matrimonial, past wives, any kids
DET. WHEEDLE: Do you want a matrimonial, past wives, any kids
ANNIE: No, I know that part
DET. WHEEDLE: So you want a financial, is he a deadbeat, we can do a D&B
ANNIE: No, no, no, it's more like, who is he, does he have a sense of humor, is he nice no forget nice, I've got nice
DET. WHEEDLE: A sense of humor.
ANNIE: I'll tell you the truth, I heard this guy on a call-in radio show and I might not marry the person I should marry because I've become obsessed with him.
DET. WHEEDLE: Oh. Like Glenn Close in that No. Not remotely. I just want to find out about him.
ANNIE: No. Not remotely. I just want to find out about him.
DET. WHEEDLE: You want a tail. ( picking up the phone ) I got a guy in Seattle
GERALDO: So how long have you been a ( husky voice ) About two weeks. Sam is coming down the stairs.
WOMAN: ( husky voice ) About two weeks. Sam is coming down the stairs.
CLARISE: ( to Jonah ) Jonah hits the remote control and the channel changes to the Disney channel as Sam comes into the room, dressed for his date.
SAM: Clarise, I'll be back by midnight I'm sure
CLARISE: Sam tosses Jonah a letter.
SAM: This one's for both of us.
JONAH: ( reading from the Sleepless and Son. ( reading the postmark ) He starts to open the letter.
SAM: I left the number of the restaurant I'll be at if there's any emergency.
CLARISE: ( to Jonah ) How do I look?
SAM: ( to Jonah ) How do I look?
JONAH: ( absently ) ( looks in mirror ) I look stupid. I look stupid, don't I? I look like I'm trying too hard. I was going to get a haircut but then I thought I'd look like I just got a haircut. ( checks his teeth,
SAM: ( looks in mirror ) I look stupid. I look stupid, don't I? I look like I'm trying too hard. I was going to get a haircut but then I thought I'd look like I just got a haircut. ( checks his teeth,
JONAH: ( reading the letters ) This is a good letter, Dad.
SAM: ( checks his fly, looks The heels on these shoes are very large. Why have I never noticed this? The heels on these shoes are grotesque.
JONAH: Her name is Annie. Annie Reed.
SAM: Now I'm late. Bye. He starts toward the door.
JONAH: Listen to this
SAM: Not now, Jonah
JONAH: Just this one part, okay? ( reading ) "I have been an excellent third-baseman for as long as I or anyone else can remember, and I guarantee you will not get one past me"
SAM: Jonah, I'm leaving
JONAH: ( Sam stops, amazed at "and while we're on the subject, let's just say right now that Brooks Robinson was the best third baseman ever. It's important that you agree with me on that because I'm from Baltimore." Dad, she thinks Brooks Robinson is the Sam goes out the door with Jonah behind him, waving the EXT. HOUSEBOAT - NIGHT Everyone thinks Brooks Robinson is the greatest.
WAIT!!!: ( Sam stops, amazed at "and while we're on the subject, let's just say right now that Brooks Robinson was the best third baseman ever. It's important that you agree with me on that because I'm from Baltimore." Dad, she thinks Brooks Robinson is the Sam goes out the door with Jonah behind him, waving the EXT. HOUSEBOAT - NIGHT Everyone thinks Brooks Robinson is the greatest.
JONAH: Everyone thinks Brooks Robinson is the greatest.
SAM: Everyone thinks Brooks Robinson is the greatest.
JONAH: It's a sign.
SAM: Oh, right. Sam stops, takes Jonah by the hand and takes him back into the house.
SAM: Come here. I want to show you INT. HOUSE - NIGHT As Sam pulls down the map of the United States, which is hanging over one of the kitchen windows and stands Jonah in front of it.
SAM: Here is Seattle. ( moves his finger And here is Baltimore. Case ( he pulls the map and
JONAH: She doesn't want us to go to Baltimore. She wants to meet us in New York City on Valentine's Day. On top of the Empire State Building.
SAM: Perfect. We'll be there. Sam goes out the door. Jonah just looks down at his letter, his hopes on hold. Clarise switches the TV back to Geraldo.
VICTORIA: walking into the place. She's attractive. She waves and smiles and sits down, orders a white wine spritzer from the maitre d'. After a beat.
SAM: An awkward pause.
VICTORIA: An awkward pause.
SAM: You look good.
VICTORIA: You look good yourself. Another pause.
VICTORIA: I thought you were never going to call me.
SAM: You did?
VICTORIA: I really wanted you to call me, and I thought you were never going to
SAM: You could have called me
VICTORIA: No way. No way I was going to be the first woman you went out with after. ( she gestures There is no percentage whatsoever in being the first woman anyone goes out with You are the first woman I'm going out with.
SAM: You are the first woman I'm going out with.
VICTORIA: So whatdya say? I'll get the check, and I'll call you in eight months. Victoria laughs far too enthusiastically.
SAM: So whatdya say? I'll get the check, and I'll call you in eight months. Victoria laughs far too enthusiastically.
VICTORIA: Oh, you are funny We hear a CLICK as the image FREEZES.
SEATTLE DETECTIVE: sitting at a table across the room, having just taken the picture of Sam we saw frozen, with a miniature camera. In QUICK CUTS we see a progression of later SAM AND VICTORIA SIMPLY TALKING. SAM HOLDING HIS FORK ACROSS THE TABLE TO GIVE VICTORIA A BITE OF HIS SALMON. SAM AND VICTORIA SHARING A LAUGH. INT. BALTIMORE MARKET - DAY Lots and lots of fish stalls with crabs, etc. Annie is walking with Det. Wheedle toward a table you stand at near the clam bar.
ANNIE: Tell me he's living in squalor. Tell me everything he has is being repossessed, including his filthy, dented mobile home.
WHEEDLE: He's got a houseboat.
ANNIE: I hate boats.
WHEEDLE: It sounds nice.
ANNIE: Boats. You go out in them. You come back in them. I hate Houseboats don't go anywhere.
WHEEDLE: Houseboats don't go anywhere.
ANNIE: Boats. All anyone talks about is the wind. Is it up, is it down. I can't live with a man who only talks about the wind.
WHEEDLE: It's not a boat boat. It's really a house.
ANNIE: But it's on the water.
WHEEDLE: It's on the lake right in the middle of Seattle. It rains nine months of the year in Seattle.
ANNIE: I hope I don't have to pay for that piece of information.
WHEEDLE: No, that's free. He's an architect. Used to do big high-profile projects. He scaled it all back when his wife died. Now he remodels people's homes. He works in a small firm, makes a good He shows her a good picture of him.
ANNIE: He's real. She goes to the next shot. Sees a picture of Sam and Victoria in the restaurant, although all we see of Victoria is her back and mane of blond hair. Hold on Annie's face.
JONAH: I figure we could go to New York, catch the Knicks, and since we'd be there anyway, obviously we'd go to the Empire State Building
SAM: There she is. As Victoria comes toward them, with a bag full of Why is she bringing that bag?
JONAH: Why is she bringing that bag?
SAM: She's going to cook something for us?
VICTORIA: Hi, Sam. And let me guess you must be Jonah.
JONAH: ( back to the subject ) He should book now because we can get an excursion fare. Jessica's parents are travel agents and
SAM: Not now, Jonah.
SAM: We can't finish the job. She's on her sixth painter, now she's thinking maybe she wants the fireplace rebricked
VICTORIA: I know her pretty well. Maybe I could call her
SAM: I've already solved it. I've hired a hit man. Victoria laughs a little too hard.
VICTORIA: Oh that is so funny, you are so Sam smiles. Jonah is appalled.
SAM: Every time she wants to change something, she talks in this little baby voice ( in a little baby "Couldn't you just move the stairway a teeny tiny bit?" Victoria almost dies laughing. Jonah's eyes narrow to Do you like baseball?
JONAH: Do you like baseball?
VICTORIA: Yes, I do. In fact, my firm has box seats for the Mariners. Why don't we all go next week?
JONAH: What about camping?
VICTORIA: What about it?
JONAH: Do you like it?
VICTORIA: I went camping once. ( to Sam ) I love to brush my teeth in a brook and floss with a weed.
JONAH: We ought to start camping again, Dad.
SAM: Okay, tiger. Time for bed.
JONAH: It's only ten o'clock.
SAM: ( a little edgy ) Thank Victoria for dinner.
JONAH: Thank Victoria for dinner.
SAM: Thank Victoria for dinner.
JONAH: Thanks for dinner. I never saw anybody cook potatoes that way.
SAM: ( gracious ) I'm glad you liked it. Good night, Jonah. They watch as Jonah pads down the hallway.
ANNIE: ( groggy ) ( through filter ) Turn on your radio!
BECKY: ( through filter ) Turn on your radio!
ANNIE: ( through filter ) The kid is on. You've got me listening to this garbage. Go on, turn it on.
BECKY: ( through filter ) The kid is on. You've got me listening to this garbage. Go on, turn it on.
WALTER: Who is it?
ANNIE: Oh, it's just Becky, she's having trouble with Rich again. ( into phone ) Hold on, Becky, I'm going She puts the phone on hold and gets out of bed.
ANNIE: How am I going to explain this to Walter?
ON JONAH: sneaking glances out at Sam and Victoria as he talks. Victoria puts her arms around Sam's waist and clasps them behind him.
JONAH: Please, please don't make me sick. He's not sane enough to judge anything. She's a ho.
VICTORIA: Is he there?
SAM: ( turning back ) ( beat ) After he was born, every time we started to make love, he would cry. He had an uncanny sense of timing. We really shouldn't do anything here Absolutely. Right. And she moves in to kiss him.
VICTORIA: Absolutely. Right. And she moves in to kiss him.
ON JONAH: Jonah peeks up over the top of the desk to check if the coast is clear and is sickened to see them locked in a
JONAH: Oh God, it's major. He's kissing her on the lips. I have to stop this.
ANNIE: ( muffled ) Come on, Jonah
ON JONAH: DR. MARCIA FIELDSTONE ( V.O. )
JONAH: Yes, I can. He hangs up the phone and SCREAMS.
WALTER: Miss Scarlett. In the broom closet. With the radio.
ANNIE: ( to Becky ) I gotta go. I'll see you at ( she hangs up, turns Walter, you scared me. Don't ever do that again.
SAM: Don't ever do that again.
JONAH: I thought I saw a black widow Sam looks at Victoria, shrugs. Back to Jonah.
SAM: What are you doing up?
JONAH: I was thirsty.
SAM: There's a bathroom upstairs.
JONAH: The water tastes better in the That's true. Why is that?
SAM: That's true. Why is that?
ANNIE: Becky heard this woman on the radio complaining about this guy she was sure was Rick, which meant he was cheating on her. She was completely hysterical. Then it turned out the woman lived in Duluth.
WALTER: That doesn't make any sense.
ANNIE: I know. It makes no sense at all. Thank God my life is in INT. ANNIE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT Walter asleep. Annie stares up at the ceiling, wide awake. Thinking.
JESSICA: Write her.
JONAH: You think so?
JESSICA: It's Y. O. H.
JONAH: ( agreeing ) ( a beat ) What's that?
JESSICA: Your only hope.
ANNIE: I thought I would look into doing a story about those radio ( nods; after a beat ) You'd probably have to go somewhere to really look into EXT. STREET OUTSIDE JESSICA'S HOUSE - A LITTLE LATER Jonah and Jessica at the mailbox. As Jonah opens the mailbox and drops the letter in, we hear a SQUEAL OF BRAKES. It's Sam's car.
BECKY: ( nods; after a beat ) You'd probably have to go somewhere to really look into EXT. STREET OUTSIDE JESSICA'S HOUSE - A LITTLE LATER Jonah and Jessica at the mailbox. As Jonah opens the mailbox and drops the letter in, we hear a SQUEAL OF BRAKES. It's Sam's car.
ANNIE: EXT. STREET OUTSIDE JESSICA'S HOUSE - A LITTLE LATER Jonah and Jessica at the mailbox. As Jonah opens the mailbox and drops the letter in, we hear a SQUEAL OF BRAKES. It's Sam's car.
SAM: ( angry ) Get in the car right this Jonah, about to get in, looks at Jessica.
JESSICA: I'll call you later. Jonah gets in.
SAM: Did you call that radio station Everyone at work heard you.
JONAH: Everyone at work heard you.
SAM: Everyone at work heard you.
JONAH: I just called for a second.
SAM: Long enough to call Victoria a It's a short word.
JONAH: It's a short word.
SAM: This is not a joke. Thank God Victoria doesn't know. It would really have hurt her ( really getting into If she knew, she'd never forgive me. It would be hopeless for the two of you.
JONAH: ( really getting into If she knew, she'd never forgive me. It would be hopeless for the two of you.
WALTER: Couldn't you just do a phone Not for the kind of place I want to do. I won't be in Chicago that long.
ANNIE: Not for the kind of place I want to do. I won't be in Chicago that long.
WALTER: When you get back, I'll be And then I'll see you in New Okay, okay.
ANNIE: And then I'll see you in New Okay, okay.
WALTER: Okay, okay.
PILOT'S VOICE: This is Captain Foster welcoming you aboard Flight 132 to Seattle. Our flying time Do you believe that any lie is a betrayal? That's what Harold Pinter says, but it seems to me it's a very harsh way of drawing the line. Annie turns back to the window, leaving the seatmate, who in any case doesn't speak English, completely INT. SEATTLE/TACOMA AIRPORT - DAY Jonah is standing out of the way at a departure gate, watching Sam as Victoria checks in for a flight bound for Minneapolis.
ANNIE: Do you believe that any lie is a betrayal? That's what Harold Pinter says, but it seems to me it's a very harsh way of drawing the line. Annie turns back to the window, leaving the seatmate, who in any case doesn't speak English, completely INT. SEATTLE/TACOMA AIRPORT - DAY Jonah is standing out of the way at a departure gate, watching Sam as Victoria checks in for a flight bound for Minneapolis.
VICTORIA: ( turning to Jonah ) Can I bring something back for you? A souvenir? ( to Sam ) Does he like those little snow ( to Jonah ) You know you shake them up and the snow floats down? Sam looks at Jonah, threateningly. Be nice or else.
JONAH: ( extremely polite ) Sure. I'd really like that. Thank you so much.
VICTORIA: I think they're announcing your Sure enough, passengers are starting to board.
JONAH: I think they're announcing your Sure enough, passengers are starting to board.
SAM: He's ten.
VICTORIA: ( he's good at it ) He's good at it.
SAM: I read an article about this
VICTORIA: I read the same article.
SAM: It takes time
VICTORIA: Absolutely. When I come back, maybe the two of us should spend some time together, on our own. What do you think?
SAM: Sure. Sure. Victoria waves goodbye and starts toward the jetway. As Sam watches her go, Jonah looks at him, sticks his finger in his mouth and pretends to gag.
SAM: ( impatiently ) Jonah, this isn't fair. You don't know Victoria. I hardly know her myself. She is, in fact, a mystery to me. She tosses her hair a lot. Why does she do this? I have no idea. Is it a twitch? Does she need a haircut? Should she use barrette so it doesn't keep falling in her face? These are things that I'm willing to get to the bottom of, and that is why I am dating her. That is all I am doing. I am not marrying her. Can you appreciate the difference? That's what single people do, they try people on and they see if they fit. But nobody fits perfectly, everyone is an Was Mom an adjustment?
JONAH: Was Mom an adjustment?
SAM: ( complete exasperation ) I'm never going to meet anyone who's going to measure up to your mom in your eyes? What do you think? There's a perfect woman walking around out there? At that moment, Annie emerges from the jetway right next to the one Victoria went into and comes toward us.
SAM: There's no such thing as a Sam sees Annie immediately, and is instantly struck by her looks, her fluidity, her poise. Annie walks right toward Sam, right past him, inches from him, not noticing him as she looks for the exit. Sam continues to stare at her.
SAM: ( to himself, referring God, she's beautiful.
JONAH: ( unaware he's talking Victoria? She's okay. Sam and Jonah start toward the exit, Sam trying not to lose sight of Annie.
JONAH: Dad, I was talking to Jessica about reincarnation, and she thinks that probably you knew Annie in another life.
SAM: ( completely distracted ) Who is Annie?
JONAH: The one who wrote us. Sam is preoccupied with Annie. She takes a turn that he doesn't expect. He's having trouble keeping up, because he has to wait for Jonah.
JONAH: ( continuing ) But Jessica says you and Annie never got together in that life, and your hearts are like puzzles with parts out of them and when you get together the puzzle's complete. He's lost Annie in the crowd. She's nowhere in sight.
SAM: God dammit. A beat, then Sam heads off to the exit. Jonah follows. As they walk into the distance
JONAH: The reason I know this and you don't is that I'm younger and purer so I'm more in touch with cosmic forces.
SAM: I sincerely hope you are not going to marry Jessica.
ANNIE: ( practicing ) Hello, Mr. Baldwin? No. Hello, Sam? ( sweet ) I'm Annie Reed. ( dignified ) I'm Annie Reed. ( sultry ) I'm Annie Reed. ( matter-of-fact ) I'm Annie Reed. She settles on the matter-of-fact reading.
ANNIE: I heard about you calling Dr. Fieldstone, and well, I just happened to be out here on.
ANNIE: ( businesslike ) JUMP CUT: ( carefree ) JUMP CUT: ( losing confidence, for no good reason at all. ( rallying, businesslike business. and I thought I'd drop and. ( breezy ) say hello.
ANNIE: ( carefree ) JUMP CUT: ( losing confidence, for no good reason at all. ( rallying, businesslike business. and I thought I'd drop and. ( breezy ) say hello.
ANNIE: ( losing confidence, for no good reason at all. ( rallying, businesslike business. and I thought I'd drop and. ( breezy ) say hello.
ANNIE: ( earnest ) invite you to lunch.
ANNIE: ( sexy ) take a shower with you.
ANNIE: ( embarrassed with all shoot myself.
ON ANNIE: watching. She's at a safe distance, across the street and down some from the marina entrance. She watches it for a moment, then gains courage. She starts to cross the street to enter the dock.
ON ANNIE: checking them out from a phone booth next to the Snak Shak.
ANNIE: I couldn't do it. How did I get here?
BECKY: You told a lie and got on a That's not what I mean. ( beat ) I'm going back over there tomorrow and talk to him. I Okay. Good. Goodbye.
ANNIE: That's not what I mean. ( beat ) I'm going back over there tomorrow and talk to him. I Okay. Good. Goodbye.
BECKY: Okay. Good. Goodbye.
ANNIE: Is this crazy?
BECKY: Is this crazy?
ANNIE: Is this crazy?
BECKY: No. That's the weirdest part about it.
ANNIE: Thank you. I love you.
BECKY: I love you, too.
ANNIE: Good night. Annie hangs up the phone. She turns off the light. Moonlight coming through the window. Hold on her.
SUZY: who we remember from eighteen months ago, appearing at the gate to the marina waving, smiling a mile wide beckoning Sam and Jonah home like a military wife whose boys have just come back from the front. Sam and Jonah are overjoyed to see her. Jonah breaks into a run, nearly leaping into Suzy's waiting arms as Sam brings up the rear, picking up Jonah's sodas which he dropped when he started running.
ON ANNIE: She comes to a standstill, in the middle of the street. In shock. The scene in front of her is too horrible to ANNIE'S POV - GATE TO MARINA Sam catches up. Suzy no less beautiful and vivacious than she was before tousles Jonah's hair, kisses Sam and hugs them both.
SAM: God, it's wonderful to see you. Where's Greg?
SUZY: He's over at the boat show. He'll be by later. ( she looks around ) It's so beautiful here.
ANNIE: There is such apparent warmth, and joy, and love about this homecoming that she forget where she is in the middle of the street. A car HORN blares at her. all she can do is stare at the nightmare that has unfolded. She starts to back away and that's when she sees
A TAXICAB: coming right at her, horn BLARING, tires SQUEALING. Annie starts to jump to the other lane but there's a van bearing down from the opposite direction. She steps back to the middle line. The cab goes into a skid. Annie freezes. Sam heard the noise and turns to see what's going on. The cab comes SCREECHING right at the CAMERA. Annie screams. The cab stops inches from her body. The van in the other oncoming lane fishtails to a stop as well.
ON SAM: responding. He runs from the gate toward the near- ON THE CAB DRIVER getting out of the cab, as other people gawk from the Annie, still in shock from her brush with disaster, hears the Cabbie but doesn't respond. Stunned, she turns to see Sam on the other side of the street. Their eyes meet. Sam stops, realizing it's the woman he saw in the airport.
DRIVER: Lady, what the hell are you Annie, still in shock from her brush with disaster, hears the Cabbie but doesn't respond. Stunned, she turns to see Sam on the other side of the street. Their eyes meet. Sam stops, realizing it's the woman he saw in the airport.
SAM: Annie, totally mortified and humiliated by everything that's happened, bolts for her car. Sam wants to run after her but there's traffic is coming past and he can't cross the street. Annie gets into her car, starts and pulls away. Sam stands there, EXT. AIRPLANE - IN FLIGHT ACROSS THE U.S. - DAY EXT. BALTIMORE STREET - DUSK Becky's car driving toward Annie's house.
ANNIE: Annie, totally mortified and humiliated by everything that's happened, bolts for her car. Sam wants to run after her but there's traffic is coming past and he can't cross the street. Annie gets into her car, starts and pulls away. Sam stands there, EXT. AIRPLANE - IN FLIGHT ACROSS THE U.S. - DAY EXT. BALTIMORE STREET - DUSK Becky's car driving toward Annie's house.
BECKY: You were standing in the middle of the street?
ANNIE: You know that dream where you're walking down the street naked and everyone is looking at you?
BECKY: I love that dream.
ANNIE: That was nothing compared to this humiliation, nothing.
BECKY: But he saw you, right?
ANNIE: He said hello.
BECKY: And what did you say? Annie takes the mail from the mailbox on her way to the All I could think of to say was "AN AFFAIR TO REMEMBER" ON THE TELEVISION SET. DEBORAH KERR IS SAYING: "ALL I COULD THINK OF TO SAY WAS HELLO." And pull back to reveal:
ANNIE: All I could think of to say was "AN AFFAIR TO REMEMBER" ON THE TELEVISION SET. DEBORAH KERR IS SAYING: "ALL I COULD THINK OF TO SAY WAS HELLO." And pull back to reveal:
BECKY: It's a sign
ANNIE: It's a sign I've watched this movie too many times. ( beat ) I'm so stupid. From the minute I listen to that stupid program on the radio, I've been a complete jerk. She starts absently going through the mail, throwing almost all of it away without even opening it.
BECKY: You don't know who she was, I saw her. She looked just like this She shows Becky the photo of Victoria and Sam having This is a photo of hair.
ANNIE: I saw her. She looked just like this She shows Becky the photo of Victoria and Sam having This is a photo of hair.
BECKY: This is a photo of hair.
ANNIE: Well, it's the same woman. And he was crazy about her. ( looking at one letter ) What is this? ( beat ) This is from Seattle. She opens the letter. Reads it. Looks up at Becky.
ANNIE: So I mailed your letter.
BECKY: So I mailed your letter.
ANNIE: ( reading the letter ) "Dear Annie: Thanks for your letter. It was great. We're very excited about meeting you in New York on Valentine's Day and seeing if we are M.F.E.O. Sleepless in Seattle."
BECKY: Made for each other. A long beat.
M.F.E.O.?: Made for each other. A long beat.
ANNIE: Made for each other. A long beat.
BECKY: It's cute. It's like a little Annie looks at her balefully.
BECKY: ( continuing ) So he can't write. Big deal. I mean, verbal ability is a highly overrated thing in a guy, and our pathetic need for it is what gets us into so much ( with resolve ) I'm going to run back to Walter's arms, if he's still have me.
ANNIE: ( with resolve ) I'm going to run back to Walter's arms, if he's still have me.
BECKY: What about the letter?
ANNIE: It doesn't mean anything. It was written before I went out there. Before the ho. She puts the letter on an ashtray, takes a match and lights it. They both watch it burn.
SUZY: You saw her in the airport and then here?
SAM: I tried to talk to her. ( he shrugs ) It was like I knew her. Weird.
GREG: Well, at least you're out there seeing people again. That's Well, just one really.
SAM: Well, just one really.
SUZY: How's Jonah taking it?
SAM: It'll take him a while to come around. A month ago he called one of those radio call-in shows and told them I needed a ( charmed ) You're kidding
SUZY: ( charmed ) You're kidding
SAM: Now that I'm seeing someone, it's a whole other thing.
ON JONAH: he's not asleep after all. He's been listening all
SAM: He's become obsessed with some woman who wrote me
GREG: Are you serious?
SAM: She wants to meet me at the top of the Empire State Building.
SUZY: It's a little derivative.
SAM: What do you mean?
SUZY: "An Affair To Remember." Did you ever see it? Cary Grant and Deborah Kerr. Before that it was called "Love Affair With Irene Dunne And Charles Boyer."
GREG: Women love this movie. On Jonah, listening.
SUZY: They met at the Empire State Building, only they didn't. Never mind.
GREG: What kind of person would write to someone they heard on the I got hundreds of letters from women all over the country
SAM: I got hundreds of letters from women all over the country
GREG: Desperate women
SUZY: Just because someone's looking for a nice guy doesn't make them desperate.
GREG: How about rapacious and love- It is easier to be killed by a It is not
SUZY: It is easier to be killed by a It is not
GREG: It is easier to be killed by a It is not
SUZY: It is not
GREG: Right, right. Suzy's irritated.
SAM: Anyway, Victoria's nice.
SUZY: Would you follow her through an Look, I met somebody. She's good, and capable and smart. We hit it off. We can't spend your life chasing after Jonah is devastated by the realization that his dad is serious about Victoria.
SAM: Look, I met somebody. She's good, and capable and smart. We hit it off. We can't spend your life chasing after Jonah is devastated by the realization that his dad is serious about Victoria.
ANNIE: ( a beat ) So far so good. So. What should we talk about? How insecure we were in high school. Shirley Votypka, the first girl I ever felt up. Health. What about health? Did you know that eating six macadamia nuts is the equivalent of eating a steak?
SAM: ( a beat ) So far so good. So. What should we talk about? How insecure we were in high school. Shirley Votypka, the first girl I ever felt up. Health. What about health? Did you know that eating six macadamia nuts is the equivalent of eating a steak?
ANNIE: She unbuttons her shirt. And they kiss. FREEZE FRAME on the kiss. It becomes the silhouette of a man and a woman kissing.
BECKY: You're going to miss the train.
ANNIE: No, I'm not. ( she starts assembling
BECKY: What are your plans in New We're going to the Rainbow Room and the symphony tomorrow night.
ANNIE: We're going to the Rainbow Room and the symphony tomorrow night.
BECKY: I love the symphony.
ANNIE: ( cheerfully ) I hate it. ( she stands to go, I'm so happy, Becky. Finally I feel happy. This is right. This is real. Everything else is what happens when you watch too many movies and completely lose sight of what counts. ( as she steps into Please don't tell anyone about what happened. "Sleepless in Seattle" is history.
JESSICA: ( weeping ) This is the best movie I've ever seen in my life.
JONAH: I don't get it.
JESSICA: You have to go to her, Jonah. You have to find her. Jonah nods. But he isn't sure how he's going to do it.
JONAH: Do you know how much it costs to go to New York?
JESSICA: Nobody knows. It changes practically every day. How much money do you have?
JONAH: Eighty dollars.
JESSICA: I have forty-two. So that would definitely cover taxicabs, I think.
JONAH: But how am I going to get JESSICA'S MOTHER Honey, I'm going out for a few ( sticking her head in Could you keep an eye on things out front till I get back? Jessica looks over at Jonah.
JESSICA'S MOTHER: Honey, I'm going out for a few ( sticking her head in Could you keep an eye on things out front till I get back? Jessica looks over at Jonah.
JESSICA: INT. JESSICA'S HOUSE - TRAVEL AGENCY OFFICE - DAY Jessica is working on the computer. She punches Jonah's name into it.
JESSICA: Do you want an aisle or a window seat?
JONAH: Do you want a fruit plate?
JESSICA: Do you want a fruit plate?
JONAH: I don't know. Do I?
JESSICA: ( shrugs ) I'd rather die than eat on an ( beat ) I'm telling them you're twelve so you can fly unaccompanied and they won't make you be carried around by a stewardess and everything. Jonah nods. Now Jessica takes a ticket form out of the desk and starts to fill it out for Jonah.
ANNIE: You go.
WALTER: Ever since Christmas, you've been different. Kind of distracted, distant. But I feel like you're coming back from wherever you were.
ANNIE: I am. ( she smiles at him ) I was just. I just got. I think I got nervous. It's normal, right? Don't you ever feel nervous about, you know?
WALTER: About forever.
ANNIE: About forever.
WALTER: Well, I did. And you know what I think? I think that it was almost. too perfect.
ANNIE: Well, I did. And you know what I think? I think that it was almost. too perfect.
ANNIE: I started to wonder whether we were the human equivalent of two rights making a wrong, you Walter has no idea what she means, but he's completely good-natured about it.
ANNIE: It was like kismet but not, if you see what I mean. Walter's brow furrows slightly.
ANNIE: ( continuing ) You have to grow up. You can't have all these adolescent dreams about how exciting your life is going to be Walter starting to look puzzled.
ANNIE: ( continuing ) Don't hate me but I love this You couldn't.
WALTER: You couldn't.
ANNIE: I do.
WALTER: It's just like my grandmother's How many place settings should I put down?
SALESWOMAN: How many place settings should I put down?
WALTER: Exactly. Eight is too few and twelve is too many. The SALESWOMAN writes a "10" on the big sheet of paper.
ANNIE: It was my mother's.
WALTER: It was my mother's.
ANNIE: It's so beautiful. It's just what I would have picked out if I'd had every ring in the world to choose from. ( as she slips the ring You see what I mean. There are people who would like a relationship to be full of surprises, but I am not one of ( as she starts out the Surprises are highly overrated. As they go out the door to:
ANNIE: ( continuing ) Promise me something, Walter. Promise me you will never have a surprise party for me. Ever. You know what happens, you walk in the door in some horrible sweater you put on that morning, and there are hundreds of people in their best clothes shouting INT. SAM'S BEDROOM - NIGHT Sam's got a suitcase on the bed, packing. Jonah is standing in the doorway, watching. He goes to his desk looking for something but can't find it. He tries a few drawers.
SAM: Have you seen my wallet?
JONAH: It might be in the kitchen. Sam doesn't remember leaving it in the kitchen.
SAM: I'm only going to be away one night, okay, and Clarise will be here. You'll have a swell time. You'll watch a little Geraldo, some Nightmare on Elm Street 12, I'll never know.
JONAH: Are you going with her?
SAM: Jonah walks out of Sam's bedroom and we hear the door to his bedroom slam shut.
ON SAM: Starting to boil. He walks into
SAM: I have to have a life. I have to do things that I want with people my own age. It's none of your business who I am going out with. I don't give a good goddam if you're angry
JONAH: ( holding up Annie's This is the one I like. Sam starts back to his bedroom.
SAM: I don't care who you like. It's who I like. But the truth is you're never going to like anyone because it isn't your Sam throws a pair of socks into the suitcase.
JONAH: ( yelling ) Fine. I won't say anything. You can marry Count Dracula.
SAM: Thank you, Jonah. But the point is, I am not asking ( yelling ) What's wrong with Annie?
JONAH: ( yelling ) What's wrong with Annie?
SAM: ( emphasizing every Shut up. Jonah appears at the doorway.
JONAH: Shut up? Shut up??? Mom never did that. Mom never said shut up to me. Mom never yelled at This conversation is finished.
SAM: This conversation is finished.
JONAH: You said we could go to New Did not.
SAM: Did not.
JONAH: Did too.
SAM: I can't know what I said, but we're not going.
JONAH: ( crossing his arms I'm not leaving this room until you say yes.
SAM: Get out.
JONAH: Goddammit, I am sick of this
SAM: Goddammit, I am sick of this
JONAH: Put me down. I hate you, I hate you He throws Jonah on the bed. Jonah in tears.
SAM: I'm sick of this phony melodramatic bullshit. I'm sick of it. He leaves the room and slams the door.
SAM: Jonah? Clarise is here, okay? And I'm leaving. No response.
SAM: ( to Clarise ) He's probably still asleep. He opens the door gently to the room. Jonah's gone.
TICKET CLERK: Jonah steps forward, with his ticket.
JESSICA'S MOTHER: Jessica, this is not JESSICA'S FATHER If you don't tell us right now, right this minute, I'm going to kill you. Jessica rolls her eyes. She looks over the clock on the mantel. As it ticks to 8:30:
JESSICA'S FATHER: If you don't tell us right now, right this minute, I'm going to kill you. Jessica rolls her eyes. She looks over the clock on the mantel. As it ticks to 8:30:
JESSICA: He's on his way to New York.
JESSICA'S MOTHER: ( the child of travel United 597. Jessica's mother and father are horrified.
SAM: ( the child of travel United 597. Jessica's mother and father are horrified.
JESSICA: ( the child of travel United 597. Jessica's mother and father are horrified.
JESSICA'S MOTHER: When does it leave?
SAM: When does it leave?
JESSICA'S FATHER: Everyone looks over at the clock. It says 8:31. Jessica smiles.
STEWARDESS: Here you go. here's a nice pin for you, for flying with us.
JONAH: ( completely unmoved, Thank you.
STEWARDESS: You're welcome. Can I take that for you?
JONAH: ( clutching it even INT. AIRPORT TICKET COUNTER - ON SAM - DAY at the reservations desk. Desperation.
SAM: ( frantic ) He's about this high, 90 pounds, never combs his hair, Mariner's hat
AIRLINE CLERK: ( to his colleagues ) Anyone check in a unaccompanied minor on the New York flight?
SAM: I'll kill him. ( beat ) I have to get to New York as fast as I can.
AIRLINE CLERK: We can get you on a flight to Chicago and you can change Starting to punch information into the computer.
AIRLINE CLERK: How will you be paying for ( taking out his wallet ) American Express. ( there's no American ( beat ) I really am going to kill him.
SAM: ( taking out his wallet ) American Express. ( there's no American ( beat ) I really am going to kill him.
TAXI DRIVER: Where to?
JONAH: Empire State Building.
SAM: ( to himself ) Come on. come on. come on.
CABBIE'S VOICE: There it is. We are watching from:
CABBIE: What are you gonna do there, spit off the top?
JONAH: No. I'm gonna meet. ( trying to figure out my mother.
WALTER: Is something wrong. Annie shakes her head.
MAITRE D': May I get you a drink?
WALTER: Some champagne?
ANNIE: Fine, fine. Walter glances back over his shoulder.
WALTER: Beautiful view, isn't it?
ANNIE: Walter, there's something I have to tell you
SAM: Sorry, this is an emergency. The cab pulls out to a chorus of verbal abuse.
JONAH: Hi, I'm Jonah. Are you Annie?
WOMAN #1: ( smiles at him ) I'm Cynthia. He spies another unattached woman.
JONAH: Excuse me, are you Annie?
NIGHT: Jonah is looking through the viewfinder. He turns around, forlorn. He takes off his backpack and is about to sit down next to it when Sam bolts into the observation deck. Jonah leaps into his arms.
SAM: You're my family. You're all I've got. What if something happened to you? Sam's eyes well up. Jonah starts to cry.
SAM: What if I couldn't get to you?
JONAH: I was scared of what you were gonna do.
SAM: When I found you?
JONAH: If I didn't go.
SAM: Listen, have I ever done anything really stupid?
JONAH: I mean, so far, have I screwed it up for you?
SAM: I mean, so far, have I screwed it up for you?
JONAH: The two of them hold each other tight. After a beat:
SAM: I can't believe you flew first It was all they had.
JONAH: It was all they had.
ANNIE: I don't know what to say about it, Walter. It was a form of temporary insanity. But I had to tell you about it because
WALTER: ( matter-of-fact ) it was a betrayal.
ANNIE: Yes. But it wasn't really. It was just.
WALTER: So what happened?
ANNIE: I told you. Nothing
WALTER: At the top of the Empire State I'm not at the top of the Empire State Building. I'm Not really. ( beat ) Look, Annie, I love you. Let's leave that out of it. I don't want to be someone you're settling for. I don't want to be someone anyone settles for. I have a life insurance policy, I'm fully invested in growth stocks, I have a paid subscription to Home Rox Office, I have no sexual diseases, I have been steadily employed in a part of the economy that isn't soft, I have expectation in the way of inherited wealth, I dress nicely, I am a member of the private sector, an independent voter, I don't watch Monday Night Football, the only thing wrong with me is that I am allergic to wheat, strawberries, penicillin, pollen, nuts and wool. There are plenty of women who see me as the brass ring. If you don't marriage is hard enough without bringing such low expectations into it, isn't Annie is nodding. She wipes a tear from her face.
ANNIE: I'm not at the top of the Empire State Building. I'm Not really. ( beat ) Look, Annie, I love you. Let's leave that out of it. I don't want to be someone you're settling for. I don't want to be someone anyone settles for. I have a life insurance policy, I'm fully invested in growth stocks, I have a paid subscription to Home Rox Office, I have no sexual diseases, I have been steadily employed in a part of the economy that isn't soft, I have expectation in the way of inherited wealth, I dress nicely, I am a member of the private sector, an independent voter, I don't watch Monday Night Football, the only thing wrong with me is that I am allergic to wheat, strawberries, penicillin, pollen, nuts and wool. There are plenty of women who see me as the brass ring. If you don't marriage is hard enough without bringing such low expectations into it, isn't Annie is nodding. She wipes a tear from her face.
WALTER: Not really. ( beat ) Look, Annie, I love you. Let's leave that out of it. I don't want to be someone you're settling for. I don't want to be someone anyone settles for. I have a life insurance policy, I'm fully invested in growth stocks, I have a paid subscription to Home Rox Office, I have no sexual diseases, I have been steadily employed in a part of the economy that isn't soft, I have expectation in the way of inherited wealth, I dress nicely, I am a member of the private sector, an independent voter, I don't watch Monday Night Football, the only thing wrong with me is that I am allergic to wheat, strawberries, penicillin, pollen, nuts and wool. There are plenty of women who see me as the brass ring. If you don't marriage is hard enough without bringing such low expectations into it, isn't Annie is nodding. She wipes a tear from her face.
ANNIE: Oh, Walter. I don't deserve I think that's what I'm saying. Slowly, gingerly, Annie slips the engagement ring off her finger and hands it to Walter. No bitterness here. Both of them trying to be gentle with each other.
WALTER: I think that's what I'm saying. Slowly, gingerly, Annie slips the engagement ring off her finger and hands it to Walter. No bitterness here. Both of them trying to be gentle with each other.
ANNIE: You okay?
WALTER: ( beat ) Some people will do anything to get out of going to a symphony. This breaks the tension. Both of them smiles.
ANNIE: Walter turns to look over his shoulder at what Annie THE LIGHTS HAVE JUST GONE ON ON THE EMPIRE STATE BUILDING VALENTINE LIGHTS: A huge pink and white heart. Walter turns back to Annie.
WALTER: Walter turns to look over his shoulder at what Annie THE LIGHTS HAVE JUST GONE ON ON THE EMPIRE STATE BUILDING VALENTINE LIGHTS: A huge pink and white heart. Walter turns back to Annie.
ANNIE: Walter turns to look over his shoulder at what Annie THE LIGHTS HAVE JUST GONE ON ON THE EMPIRE STATE BUILDING VALENTINE LIGHTS: A huge pink and white heart. Walter turns back to Annie.
WALTER: Go for it. And as Annie's heart leaps and she's about to bolt.
ELEVATOR OPERATOR: Last call. Closing time. Jonah looks at Sam.
JONAH: This is pretty dumb, wasn't Sam shrugs.
SAM: Big deal. After a beat.
SAM: Maybe we'll get a dog when we get back.
JONAH: What do you mean, okay? Wouldn't you like a dog?
SAM: What do you mean, okay? Wouldn't you like a dog?
JONAH: Sam puts his arm around him, they start toward the
SAM: Let's go home.
ANNIE: ( out of breath ) No. Please. I really need to get up there.
ANNIE: ( out of breath ) Listen, can I just take a look? Maybe. maybe. There's someone I was supposed to meet. He's probably not there, but if I don't at least look I'll always wonder about The Information Booth Person looks at her.
ANNIE: You know that movie?
ELEVATOR MAN: Sorry, ma'am. Empty. Annie slowly walks out.
ANNIE: Can I take a minute?
ELEVATOR MAN: Go ahead. She sighs. Heads for the telescopes. Looks out at the twinkling lights below. She casually turns the telescope and suddenly sees something on the floor. Jonah's Seattle Mariners backpack. She picks it up. She realizes that it might be. could be. and opens it. Inside is a toothbrush and Jonah's teddy bear. As she takes out the bear the other elevator DINGS. Annie looks up as Jonah and Sam exit the elevator.
JONAH: I left it near the. And they stop. There she is. There they are. Sam can't believe it. It's the mystery woman.
SAM: It's you.
ANNIE: It's me?
SAM: The one in the street. I chased after you.
JONAH: Are you Annie?
ANNIE: ( confused ) You're Annie too? She smiles awkwardly.
SAM: ( confused ) You're Annie too? She smiles awkwardly.
ANNIE: ( indicating the Is this yours? Jonah walks over to her. He puts his hand out. She shakes it solemnly.
JONAH: I'm Jonah. ( nodding back to Sam ) That's my dad. His name is Hi, Jonah. Sam. ( indicating the teddy And who is this?
ANNIE: Hi, Jonah. Sam. ( indicating the teddy And who is this?
JONAH: Sam nods. Smiling. Starting to put it all together. Annie smiles. Still nervous. No one knows what to do next. Just then, one of the elevator operators CLEARS
ANNIE: Sam nods. Smiling. Starting to put it all together. Annie smiles. Still nervous. No one knows what to do next. Just then, one of the elevator operators CLEARS
SAM: We better go. Annie nods. Sam holds out his hand.
SAM: Shall we? Annie slips her hand into his. It feels comfortable, natural, right.
ANNIE: He looks at her.
ANNIE: It's nice to meet you. On Annie. On Sam. On Jonah. He makes a triumphant little double-fist gesture to himself as the elevator doors close.
FADE OUT: Writers : Jeff Arch Nora Ephron David S. Ward
