ATTENDANT: You can't smoke in here.
CHARLES: A Mercury is a good car and that's what I was driving that day. I've owned a lot of cars. Different kinds. Lots of different kinds of cars. She was standing, this girl, on the side of the street where there was a chicken stand; not the Colonel, mind you, but nevertheless a chicken stand, and I pulled the Mercury over and rolled down the window by electric power. She was wearing a leather skirt and she had a lot of hair on her arms. I like that. I like it a lot. It means a big bush. I like a big bush. She said, "Are you dating?" I said, "yes," and she got in the car. We pulled to a remote location, one that she and I both felt comfortable with and she said, "How much can you spend?" I said, "What it takes to see your bush. I know it's a big one." She said "twenty five dollars," which to a working man is not chicken feed. I produced the money and she put it in her shoe and pulled up her skirt. There before me lay a thin, crooked, uncircumcised penis. You can imagine how badly I wanted my twenty-five dollars back.
THERESA: I don't know why you're so weirded out, this is not San Quentin, it's just a nuthouse. Most of these people don't even know where they are, they're not gonna hurt you.
MARSHA: In a few minutes we're gonna be in a room with a killer. That doesn't bother you?
THERESA: Hey, you're the one that wanted to major in journalism. Anyhow, wasn't the guy something like twelve or thirteen when he did it, it was twenty-five years ago, he probably doesn't even remember it.
MARSHA: ( wrinkling her nose ) Do you smell shit?
THERESA: They reach a door and the guard ushers them through.
GUARD: These are the people from that newspaper deal.
WOOLRIDGE: Oh yeah, from the college?
MARSHA: Yes sir.
WOOLRIDGE: My name's Jerry Woolridge.
MARSHA: Nice to meet you. I'm Marsha Dwiggins and this is Theresa Evans. She's here to take the pictures.
WOOLRIDGE: Y'all have a seat. Is this all of Yes sir.
MARSHA: Yes sir.
WOOLRIDGE: I think there must have been a little mix up. I told your sponsor or teacher or whatever he is, there couldn't be any pictures. It's s'posed to be just a little story or article or something, isn't that Well, yeah, it's for the school newspaper. But it has pictures. I mean it's a regular paper, you Karl's real sensitive about having his picture made. He wouldn't even be on the bulletin board for the Easter Collage. Melvin, would you get me a good hot cup with two sugar substitutes? You girls want some coffee?
MARSHA: Well, yeah, it's for the school newspaper. But it has pictures. I mean it's a regular paper, you Karl's real sensitive about having his picture made. He wouldn't even be on the bulletin board for the Easter Collage. Melvin, would you get me a good hot cup with two sugar substitutes? You girls want some coffee?
WOOLRIDGE: Karl's real sensitive about having his picture made. He wouldn't even be on the bulletin board for the Easter Collage. Melvin, would you get me a good hot cup with two sugar substitutes? You girls want some coffee?
MARSHA: No thank you.
WOOLRIDGE: The other thing is I told your boss on the phone to send a man. Karl won't talk to women.
CHARLES: There was a young man named John Liggit Hunter who was in the filling station business and a good filling station business. He was one of those young men that we run across so often in life. I'm sure you've run across them, that didn't deserve the things he had. One of those things was his beautiful bride, Sarah. She was a Georgia Peach. As a matter of fact she looked more like the picture I've had in my head than any woman I've ever seen. I took it upon myself to take her away from John Liggit Hunter, who didn't deserve her. I'm not sure if I mentioned that he was a Frenchman who claimed to be an Englishman. It took some very strong nylon cord to take her away from him. She was a fighter as well as a Georgia Peach.
WOOLRIDGE: I don't know what to tell you. I'm sorry. I made myself pretty clear I thought. He probably got busy and wasn't thinking. I know how that is. I used to teach shop and eighth grade science.
MARSHA: Well, what do we do? We drove all the way out here.
THERESA: Let's just go, Marsha.
MARSHA: No, we have to get this story.
THERESA: I thought you'd be happy to leave.
MARSHA: Why won't he talk to women?
WOOLRIDGE: He has problems. You know. With all that. He won't hardly talk to anybody really. Just certain people. He's very troubled.
CHARLES: ( leaning in to Karl ) A shovel just makes too goddamn much racket.
WOOLRIDGE: ( takes a drink of coffee ) I don't think he's talked to a woman in twenty-five or so years. That I know of anyway. That's why I said to send a man. At least maybe he'd answer a question or two for a man. I'm all for helping the college out, believe me. It might be a real good article or story.
MARSHA: Can't you talk to him? Maybe talk him into it. I'm a real good interviewer. Just get me in the room with him.
WOOLRIDGE: ( to guard ) Melvin, go get Karl and take him down to the old classroom.
WOOLRIDGE: I'll talk to him and see what we can do.
WOOLRIDGE: You see, Karl, growing up, only knew that sex was wrong and that people who did it should be killed for it. He couldn't really read but, well, neither could his mother. But, his father made sure that his mother knew what the Bible said. And she made sure Karl knew. You know he slept in a hole in the ground under a toolshed, right?
MARSHA: I knew he slept in a toolshed.
WOOLRIDGE: His mother told him that he was their punishment. Hers and his father's; from God, for having sex
MARSHA: Before they were married?
WOOLRIDGE: I don't think so. Just period, I think. She told him. God gave them the ugliest creation he could think of. Karl has an entire book a notebook. On every page it says "Franklin Chapter 1 Verse number 1." He wrote that a few years ago after he'd learned to write. His father's name was Franklin.
MARSHA: That's really strange. What does it One of his Daddy's Bible lessons I imagine. Y'all pull up a chair. I'll go out and talk to him.
WOOLRIDGE: One of his Daddy's Bible lessons I imagine. Y'all pull up a chair. I'll go out and talk to him.
CHARLES: You have to make something explode to truly understand it. You have to examine the tiny particles while they're on fire.
MELVIN: Karl, I gotta take you down to the old classroom. Mr. Woolridge has some people for you to see down there. Come on. Let's go.
WOOLRIDGE: Karl, you know, do you remember when I told you about those people from that newspaper? They want to ask you some questions about your release. They think it would make an interesting story. Will you talk to 'em? Get Now, they're women. I think it might be good for you to. You're gonna be seein' all kinds of people when you go on the outside. This'll help you I believe.
WOOLRIDGE: Well, it surprised the dickens out of me. He said he'll talk to you.
MARSHA: How am I going to conduct an interview if I can't ask him any It's the best you're gonna get. I'm Can I ask you a question? If he's so troubled, why are you letting him out? What if he does it again? It happens all the time.
WOOLRIDGE: It's the best you're gonna get. I'm Can I ask you a question? If he's so troubled, why are you letting him out? What if he does it again? It happens all the time.
MARSHA: Can I ask you a question? If he's so troubled, why are you letting him out? What if he does it again? It happens all the time.
WOOLRIDGE: He's free. His time's up. That's the rules. He's been treated and reevaluated. He doesn't show any signs any more.
MARSHA: Homicidal signs. Oh, we're gonna change the light in here for Karl. I hope you can see to write.
WOOLRIDGE: Homicidal signs. Oh, we're gonna change the light in here for Karl. I hope you can see to write.
THERESA: Can I just sneak in there? I won't take any pictures, I promise. I just want to listen.
MELVIN: No ma'am. I'm sorry you can't.
KARL: Well, I reckon what you're a wanting to know is what I'm doing in here. I reckon the reason I'm in here is 'cause I killed somebody. But I reckon what you was a wanting to know is how come me to kill somebody. Well, I reckon I'll start at the front and tell you. I lived most of my life out behind my mother and father's house in a little old shed and my daddy'd built for me. They didn't too much want me up there in the house with the rest of 'em. I mostly just set around out there in the shed all the time a lookin' at the ground. It didn't have no floor but I had me a hole dug out to lay down in and a quilt or tow that I put down My daddy was a hard workin' man most of his life, not that I can say the same fer myself. I most just set around the shed and tinkered around with a lawn mower or two and went to school off and on from time to time but the children there made quite a bit of sport of me, made fun of me quite a bit. Some of 'em roughed me up sometimes so mostly I stayed out back there in the shed. My daddy worked down at the sawmill there, down there at the planer mill for an old man named Dixon. Old man Dixon was a very cruel feller, he didn't treat his employees very well, didn't pay 'em much of a wage, didn't pay my daddy much of a wage, just barely enough to get by on. But I reckon he got by all right, they come out one or the other of 'em, usually my mother, and fed me pretty regular. At least I know he made enough for me to have mustard and biscuits three or four times a week. Old man Dixon had a boy named Jesse Dixon. Jesse was really more cruel than his daddy. He made quite a bit of sport of me and takened advantage of the little girls around the neighborhood quite a bit. He used to say my mother was a very pretty woman. He said it quite a bit from time to time, when I was at the school house. Well, I reckon you want me to get on and tell you what happened so I reckon I'll tell you. I was settin' out in the shed one evenin' not doin' too much, just kindly starin' at the wall and a waitin' fer my mother to come out and give me my Bible lesson and I heared a commotion up in the house there so I got up and run up on the screened-in porch there to see what was a goin' on, and I looked in the kitchen window and I seen my mother a layin' there on the floor without any clothes on. And seen Jesse Dixon a layin' on top of her having his way with her. Well, I just seen red. I picked up a kaiser blade that was a layin' there by the screen door, some folks calls it a sling blade, I call it a kaiser blade. It's just a long handle like a axe handle with a long blade on it that's shaped kind of like a banana. Sharp on one edge and dull on the other. It's what the highway boys use to cut down weeds and whatnot. I went in the kitchen there and I hit Jesse Dixon up side the head with it and knocked him off my mother. I reckon that didn't quite satisfy me so I hit him again in the neck with the sharp edge and just plumb near cut his head off. Killed him. Well, my mother, she jumped up from there and started yellin', "What did you kill Jesse fer? What did you kill Jesse fer?" Well, come to find out my mother didn't really mind what Jesse was a doin' to her. I reckon that made me madder than what Jesse had made me. I takened the kaiser blade, some folks calls it a sling blade, I call it a kaiser blade and hit my mother up side the head with it an' killed her. Some folks has asked me if I had it to do over again would I do the same thing. I don't know, I reckon I would. Anyhow, they seen fit to put me in here and here I've been for a great long while. I've learned to read some; took me four years to read the Bible. I reckon I understand a good deal of it. It wasn't what I expected in a lot of places. I've slept in a good bed for a great long while. They've seen fit to put me out now. They tell me they're a settin' me free today. Anyhow, I reckon that's all you need to know. If you want any more details I reckon I can tell 'em to you. I don't know if that's enough for your newspaper or not.
MARSHA: Will you ever kill anybody again,
KARL: ( slowly ) I don't reckon I got no reason to kill nobody.
MARSHA: Is he leaving right this minute?
WOOLRIDGE: We've got some paperwork to take care of. Pretty soon. Don't worry, you won't run into him in the parking lot.
MARSHA: I didn't mean that.
WOOLRIDGE: I hope the best for you, Miss Dwiggins, with your school and your paper and all.
MARSHA: Where will he go?
WOOLRIDGE: Wherever he wants to. I think he's going back to Millsburg where he's from. It's just about twenty miles from here.
MARSHA: Will he be supervised?
WOOLRIDGE: As much as anybody else is, I guess. Y'all have a good rest of the day now.
KARL: ( looking down ) Thank you.
MARSHA: ( immediately extends her Thank you.
KARL: I reckon I'm gonna have to get used to looking at pretty people.
WOOLRIDGE: Yes, I guess you are.
KARL: I reckon I'm gonna have to get used to them lookin' at me, too.
WOOLRIDGE: You better go get your things.
KARL: I ain't got nothing but them books.
WOOLRIDGE: You better go get 'em.
KARL: All right then.
BOY: Can I help you?
KARL: I was kindly wantin' somethin' or 'nother d'eat.
BOY: Well, what did you want?
KARL: You have any biscuits for sale?
BOY: Naw, we don't have biscuits.
KARL: What you got that's good to eat?
BOY: Well, I guess it's all good.
KARL: What do you like to eat here?
BOY: French fries. I like to eat them pretty good.
KARL: French-fried potaters.
BOY: How much you want fer 'em? I'll get some of them I reckon.
KARL: How much you want fer 'em? I'll get some of them I reckon.
BOY: Sixty for small and seventy-five for large.
KARL: Give me the big'uns.
BOY: These dang things are heavy. Hard to carry, too.
KARL: What you got in there, warshing?
BOY: Ain't you got no mama and daddy to tend to it?
KARL: Ain't you got no mama and daddy to tend to it?
BOY: I got a mama, but she's at work over at Ben's Dollar Store. My daddy's dead. He got hit by a train.
KARL: How fer you going with them sacks full of warsh?
BOY: About a half a mile I think it is.
KARL: I'll help you tote 'em if I don't give out first.
BOY: Okay. You don't have to though.
BOY: My name is Frank Wheatley. What's your name?
KARL: Karl's my name.
KARL: What are all them books?
FRANK: What are all them books?
KARL: Different ones. One's the Bible. One of 'ems a book on Christmas. One of 'ems how to be a carpenter.
FRANK: How come you're carryin' them around with you.
KARL: Ain't got nowhere to set 'em down.
FRANK: Don't you live somewhere?
KARL: I did live there in the state Why'd you live there?
FRANK: Why'd you live there?
KARL: I killed some folks quite awhile back. They said I wadn't right in the head and they put me in there in the nervous hospital instead of puttin' me in jail.
FRANK: They let you out?
KARL: How come?
FRANK: How come?
KARL: They told me I was well. They had to turn me loose.
FRANK: Are you well?
KARL: I reckon I feel all right.
FRANK: You don't seem like you'd kill
KARL: I never was much count at it. I never did get picked out fer it.
FRANK: Me and the Burnett twins and some boys plays down at the junior high practice field all the time. If you ever want to come by and play. We ain't no good either. Well, I'll see you later.
KARL: How does a feller go about gettin' up to the state hospital?
MAN: You buy a ticket for fourteen dollars and then set and wait for the four-fifteen bus to Kelton.
KARL: All right then.
WOOLRIDGE: Karl, what in the world are you doing here?
KARL: I want to come back and stay here.
WOOLRIDGE: Well, you can't do that. You're a free man. You've been let out to do as you please.
KARL: I reckon I don't care nothin' about bein' a free man. I don't know how to go about it.
WOOLRIDGE: Well, you have to learn. It'll take some time. Don't you know anybody down there to help you out?
KARL: Your daddy's still livin' down there from what you told me. I guess he wouldn't help you any, would he? I wasn't thinking. You don't know anybody?
WOOLRIDGE: Your daddy's still livin' down there from what you told me. I guess he wouldn't help you any, would he? I wasn't thinking. You don't know anybody?
KARL: Naw. Never did know too much of nobody. Not to he'p me out anyway.
WOOLRIDGE: ( sighs ) Listen, Karl, the truth is I don't know where they expect you to go or what they expect you to do. If it was up to me, I'd let you stay here if that's what you wanted. I'm just doin' my job. ( they sit in silence for a You follow me? ( no answer ) Listen, I know an old boy that runs a fix-it shop deal down in Millsburg. He used to go to church with me. You're good workin' on small engines and things. If I put my neck out for you with him, will you work at it if he'll hire you?
KARL: I'm pretty handy I reckon on lawn mowers and whatnot.
WOOLRIDGE: I know, I've seen it myself. Would you give that a try?
KARL: I reckon.
WOOLRIDGE: I can't promise he'll hire you. I'll have to tell him about your I never was no good with history.
KARL: I never was no good with history.
WOOLRIDGE: No, I mean your past. About why you were in here. I'll take you first thing in the mornin'. You have anyplace you can stay tonight at all? I just can't let you stay here. It's the rules. If something happened well, I'd be liable.
KARL: I reckon I can just walk around till the mornin'. Or set and read me a book somewhere.
MRS. WOOLRIDGE: Karl, would you like a muffin?
KARL: No thank ye.
MRS. WOOLRIDGE: I understand Jerry is going to take you somewhere else tomorrow.
KARL: I don't reckon I know nobody name She's talkin' about me, Karl. That's my first name.
WOOLRIDGE: She's talkin' about me, Karl. That's my first name.
KARL: He's a-carryin' me to look fer work in Millsburg where I was borned.
MRS. WOOLRIDGE: Would you like some coffee?
KARL: Coffee makes me a might nervous when I drink it.
DAUGHTER: Daddy, can I be excused to go to Sure, honey. You sleep with Mama tonight. I'll sleep with your brother and Karl can take your We have company. Now you go on.
WOOLRIDGE: Sure, honey. You sleep with Mama tonight. I'll sleep with your brother and Karl can take your We have company. Now you go on.
DAUGHTER: We have company. Now you go on.
WOOLRIDGE: We have company. Now you go on.
WOOLRIDGE: Well, Karl, there's plenty of blankets and things there. Bathroom's right there in the hall. We'll leave first thing tomorrow.
MRS. WOOLRIDGE: Jerry, why didn't you give him Bubba's room? Sister's is kind of girly, isn't it?
WOOLRIDGE: Yeah, I thought about that. No sense in moving him now I guess.
BUBBA: Daddy, don't you think one of us ought to stay up all night and kind of - guard or somethin'?
WOOLRIDGE: Why, hell no, son. What's wrong with you?
BUBBA: Well, he's crazy. He's a nut ain't 'Isn't' he, Bubba. Don't say ain't.
MRS. WOOLRIDGE: 'Isn't' he, Bubba. Don't say ain't.
WOOLRIDGE: Karl, you up?
WOOLRIDGE: Didn't you go to sleep at all, Karl? You been sittin' there like that all night?
KARL: Yes sir.
WOOLRIDGE: Well, I guess we better hit the
BILL: Hey Jerry, how it's goin'. Good to see you. Been a long time.
WOOLRIDGE: Good to see you, Bill. How's everybody doin'?
BILL: Aw, pretty good. Kids are drivin' me crazy and Phyliss is gonna put me in the poorhouse. Can't complain other than that. Wouldn't do any good if I did. Do you know Scooter, Jerry?
WOOLRIDGE: No, don't guess I do. Scooter, good to meet you. This is him, the one I talked to you about on the phone. Now like I said, I'll understand if you get nervous about it. I'm not gonna lie to you now, he did get in that trouble but then he was real young.
BILL: I remember it real well. Cut them folks to pieces. His mama one of And that ol' Dixon boy. Hell, I always wanted to kill him myself. Asshole's what he was. I remember that ol' boy too. Kind of retarded or somethin' back in school.
SCOOTER: And that ol' Dixon boy. Hell, I always wanted to kill him myself. Asshole's what he was. I remember that ol' boy too. Kind of retarded or somethin' back in school.
WOOLRIDGE: Well, he seems pretty well-adjusted these days. I don't think he'd ever hurt anybody.
BILL: Don't look much like he could. You say he can fix a small engine like nobody's bidness.
WOOLRIDGE: He's a regular whiz at it. That's all he did when he was a kid.
BILL: Well, I ain't scared of him workin' here. You know me. I'm a church goin' man. Forgivin' man. When your time's up the Lord's gonna come git you. You seared of him, Scooter?
SCOOTER: I don't guess. Can he talk?
WOOLRIDGE: Oh yeah. Listen I really appreciate it. He needs the job. I don't know what to do with him. He don't have anybody really.
BILL: That old man of his still livin' over there on Clark Street I He won't have anything to do with him. Now you say it's all right for him to stay out here in the back?
WOOLRIDGE: He won't have anything to do with him. Now you say it's all right for him to stay out here in the back?
BILL: Fine with me. If he steals anything, I'll take it out of your pocket anyway.
WOOLRIDGE: He won't steal. I'm tellin' you he's a pretty good ol' boy. Keeps to himself.
BILL: Well, I've got a roomful of work for him to do. Can't get Scooter to do any of it.
WOOLRIDGE: Karl, come over here. I want you to meet your new boss. This is Bill Cox, runs this place. Says you can work here and stay in the back.
BILL: Good to know you, Karl.
KARL: Thank ye.
BILL: Now it's minimal wage and there ain't nothin' but a army cot and a toilet back there.
WOOLRIDGE: That'll be fine. Karl, I'll go to the car and get your books.
BILL: They say you're a whiz on fixin' lawn mowers and things.
KARL: I've tinkered around on 'em a little bit.
BILL: We order from Dairy Queen at noontime usually. We can buy your lunch till you get on your feet a I like them french-fried potaters.
KARL: I like them french-fried potaters.
BILL: ( long pause ) Yeah, me too.
SCOOTER: They make a good double meat
BILL: All right then, I'll see y'all later. Karl you done a good day's work. They right about you. Scooter, he's gonna knock you out of a job if you're not careful. I'll see you tomorrow.
SCOOTER: Wait up, I'll leave with you and lock up.
BILL: Karl, they's a blanket up in under that cot and soap in the bathroom to clean up with. Now there's one more thing. The way we lock these doors at night, you can't get out. You didn't want to go anywhere, did you?
KARL: I don't reckon.
BILL: If it works out and all, maybe we'll get you a key so you can get out at night if you need to. See you later.
BILL: Scooter, did I tell about the two old boys pissin' off the bridge?
SCOOTER: I can't remember.
BILL: There was these two old boys hung their peckers off of a bridge to piss, one old boy from California and one old boy from Arkansas. Old boy from California says, "Boy this water's cold." Old boy from Arkansas says "Yeah, and it's deep Get it? That's a goodun.
SCOOTER: ( laughing ) Yeah, that's a goodun. I believe you did tell me that one before. I've heard that a bunch. Long time Well, yeah it's a classic. You know, Karl, I got to thinkin' about it last night and it's just not Christian of me to not let you have a key. I mean you been in lockup so long, you don't need me keepin' you locked up. You need to come and go as you please. Here, take this key, it'll get you in and out that back ( Karl takes the key and Them french fries good?
BILL: Well, yeah it's a classic. You know, Karl, I got to thinkin' about it last night and it's just not Christian of me to not let you have a key. I mean you been in lockup so long, you don't need me keepin' you locked up. You need to come and go as you please. Here, take this key, it'll get you in and out that back Them french fries good?
KARL: Yeah, they's good all right.
BILL: You got any money?
KARL: They give me fifty dollars when they turned me loose. I spent up some of it on ridin' the bus and eatin' french-fried potaters.
BILL: Well, I'm gonna pay you today for this comin' week, so you'll have some walkin' around money. When you get off this evenin' you better go buy some toothpaste and cleanin' up supplies to have back there. Some hard candy and some magazines. Somethin' to keep you busy at All right then.
KARL: All right then.
BILL: I'll let you off while it's still
FRANK: Hey there. I thought I heard somebody on the porch. Wasn't your name Karl?
KARL: Yeah it is. Your name's Frank.
FRANK: Yeah. What you doin' by here?
KARL: You told me to come by.
FRANK: Did you want to play ball with us?
KARL: I ain't no good at it. I just come Well, anyhow, I was just fixin' to go see my mama down at Ben's Dollar Store. She's workin' two till All right then.
FRANK: Well, anyhow, I was just fixin' to go see my mama down at Ben's Dollar Store. She's workin' two till All right then.
KARL: All right then.
FRANK: Wait a minute. You want to go with me? You can meet my mama.
KARL: I don't want to worry your mama with company.
FRANK: Aw, come on. You'll like her. She's real nice. She'll give us somethin' if we ask her to. Candy or I was kindly needin' to do some tradin'. Reckon they sell They sell some of everything. Come on let's go. I won't tell her about you bein' in the state hospital for Hey, Mama. Hey, Vaughan.
KARL: I was kindly needin' to do some tradin'. Reckon they sell They sell some of everything. Come on let's go. I won't tell her about you bein' in the state hospital for Hey, Mama. Hey, Vaughan.
FRANK: They sell some of everything. Come on let's go. I won't tell her about you bein' in the state hospital for Hey, Mama. Hey, Vaughan.
FRANK: Hey, Mama. Hey, Vaughan.
LINDA: Hey, sweetheart. What you up to?
VAUGHAN: Let me guess. You want a bunch of candy and a pop.
FRANK: You're gonna rot your teeth that way. But I bet I know what you would like even better. I put potted meat on special, four cans for a dollar and they're not moving very well. I'd sure let a few cans go for free to the right I don't like potted meat. Daddy used to say it was made out of lips and peckers and intestints.
VAUGHAN: You're gonna rot your teeth that way. But I bet I know what you would like even better. I put potted meat on special, four cans for a dollar and they're not moving very well. I'd sure let a few cans go for free to the right I don't like potted meat. Daddy used to say it was made out of lips and peckers and intestints.
FRANK: I don't like potted meat. Daddy used to say it was made out of lips and peckers and intestints.
LINDA: Frank, don't talk that way. Who's that strange lookin' man behind you? Did he follow you in here?
VAUGHAN: Can I help you, sir?
FRANK: Oh, that's Karl. I met him at the laundrymat. Karl, this is my mama. And Vaughan, Vaughan's the manager. He lets mama off any time she feels like it 'cause they're best Nice to meet you, Karl.
LINDA: Nice to meet you, Karl.
KARL: ( keeping his distance ) Pleased to know y'all.
LINDA: Frank come back here with me for a
VAUGHAN: I don't think I've ever seen you Naw, I don't believe you have. I don't reckon I never been in here. This store didn't used to be here.
KARL: Naw, I don't believe you have. I don't reckon I never been in here. This store didn't used to be here.
VAUGHAN: It's been here seventeen years. Did you live here before or something?
KARL: I's horned and raised here up till I's twelve year old.
VAUGHAN: What brings you back?
KARL: What's that you say?
VAUGHAN: Why are you here now?
KARL: They turned me loose from the state Is that right? Are you going to be staying here I reckon Mr. Woolridge got me hired on to work for Bill Cox's outfit.
VAUGHAN: Is that right? Are you going to be staying here I reckon Mr. Woolridge got me hired on to work for Bill Cox's outfit.
KARL: I reckon Mr. Woolridge got me hired on to work for Bill Cox's outfit.
VAUGHAN: Do you have family here?
KARL: Not really to speak of.
FRANK: Hey Karl, guess what. Mama said you can stay with us. Out in the garage. Our car won't fit in there anyway. It's real neat.
LINDA: Frank told me about your situation. And Frank loves company. You know, especially after his daddy passed and all. There ain't no sense in you stayin' in that old greasy He's mentally retarded, poor thing.
VAUGHAN: ( hushed ) He just got out of the state ( put out ) I know.
LINDA: ( put out ) I know.
FRANK: Can we get some candy and pops?
VAUGHAN: Sure, go ahead.
LINDA: Frank's just crazy about him. He likes the way he talks. He helped him carry home the clean laundry.
VAUGHAN: He's been in the state hospital a long time, something must be wrong with him.
LINDA: He's retarded's all. You know he's always after a father figure and Lord knows Doyle ain't a good one with his mean ass.
VAUGHAN: What about me?
LINDA: I don't think he sees you as a guy Karl is a guy guy?
VAUGHAN: ( wrinkles his brow ) Karl is a guy guy?
FRANK: This is what I call my secret place 'cause I come out here when I feel like bein' by myself. I used to come here with Karen Cross. She's kind of like my girlfriend, or used to be. She says she likes Jerry Maroney now. But I'm gonna get her back 'cause I love her. We used to come here and hold hands and talk and read books to each other with a flashlight. She didn't want to have anything to do with me in front of other people 'cause I don't have any money. Well, mama and me, I mean. She seemed to like me a whole lot when we were out here though. She said she loved me, too. Out here. Settin' right on that stump you're on. See, her daddy's a dentist so they're rich. So's Jerry Maroney's daddy. He owns the ice plant. Was your folks well off?
KARL: Naw. Didn't have too much. Enough to scrape by on, I reckon.
FRANK: They still around, your folks?
KARL: My mother's dead. My daddy's s'posed to be around still. He don't want to have nothin' to do with me though.
FRANK: How do you know?
KARL: He never did want to. I figure he ain't changed his mind much.
FRANK: How did your mama die?
KARL: ( long pause ) You don't need to know all of that. You're just a boy. You need to think about good thoughts while you're still a boy. They'll be plenty of time for the I've had a lot of bad thoughts since my daddy died. Sometimes I wish I was still real little and he was still here. My mama's real good, but I wish I had both of 'em. ( pause ) When we went to Memphis one time in the car, it was rainin' so hard we couldn't see the road. But I wadn't scared because I thought as long as daddy was drivin' nothin' could happen to us. I feel that way about mama now. ( he looks at the ground Mama has a boyfriend now. His name is Doyle Hargraves. He works construction so he makes a pretty good livin'. He still don't help mama out with any money though. He ain't no good. He's mean to her. He don't like me at all. Mama says it's because he's jealous I belong to my daddy instead of him. He stays with us all night sometimes, but he's got his own house. Somebody told me it's so he can still have other girlfriends. I like it on the nights when he ain't at our house. I'm not so nervous How come her to keep bein' girlfriends and all with him if he's mean to her?
FRANK: I've had a lot of bad thoughts since my daddy died. Sometimes I wish I was still real little and he was still here. My mama's real good, but I wish I had both of 'em. When we went to Memphis one time in the car, it was rainin' so hard we couldn't see the road. But I wadn't scared because I thought as long as daddy was drivin' nothin' could happen to us. I feel that way about mama now. Mama has a boyfriend now. His name is Doyle Hargraves. He works construction so he makes a pretty good livin'. He still don't help mama out with any money though. He ain't no good. He's mean to her. He don't like me at all. Mama says it's because he's jealous I belong to my daddy instead of him. He stays with us all night sometimes, but he's got his own house. Somebody told me it's so he can still have other girlfriends. I like it on the nights when he ain't at our house. I'm not so nervous How come her to keep bein' girlfriends and all with him if he's mean to her?
KARL: How come her to keep bein' girlfriends and all with him if he's mean to her?
FRANK: She says it's for the times when he's good to her. She's lonely since daddy died. She said sometimes she don't know why. He threatened to kill her if she ever left him. My daddy would kill him if he was here and somebody was mean to mama. Vaughan, he's real good to mama. Vaughan that you met. But he's not able to do anything to Doyle, he's funny you know. Not funny ha, ha, funny queer. He likes to go with men instead of women. That makes him not to be able to fight too good. He sure is nice though. He's from St. Louis. People who are queer can get along better in a big town. He got transferred here to work. But mama said the real reason he left is 'cause his daddy hated him. For bein' the way he is. I wish he liked to go with women. I'd rather him be mama's boyfriend than Doyle.
KARL: Yeah, I remember you a-tellin' me It ain't the truth. He shot hisself with a shotgun on purpose.
FRANK: It ain't the truth. He shot hisself with a shotgun on purpose.
KARL: Why did he do that, reckon.
FRANK: 'Cause he didn't have enough money to take care of us the way he wanted to. That's what the letter said. He got laid off from work and had to just work odd jobs. I thought he took care of us fine. Karl, did you really kill somebody?
KARL: Yeah, I did.
FRANK: Who did you kill?
KARL: Two people.
FRANK: Were they bad people?
KARL: I thought they was.
FRANK: Maybe they needed it.
KARL: I growed up and got taught it ain't right to kill nobody.
FRANK: It's okay if you're lookin' out for yourself. If it's self-defense. Was it self-defense?
BILL: Now, Karl, you sure you want to go stay with these folks? You're welcome to keep on stayin here. It's workin' out real good.
KARL: That boy wants me to.
BILL: All right then. I'll see you bright and early. How you comin' along on that garden tiller?
KARL: I fixed it. Hit's a workin' pretty You done fixed it? I'll be damned. Scooter told me it couldn't be 'Course Scooter's about as shitless as one poor son-of-a-bitch can be. You done fixed it. I'll just be damned. See you tomorrow.
BILL: You done fixed it? I'll be damned. Scooter told me it couldn't be 'Course Scooter's about as shitless as one poor son-of-a-bitch can be. You done fixed it. I'll just be damned. See you tomorrow.
DOYLE: Well, honey, I don't guess I give a shit. I ain't here half the time anyway. If you want a retard livin' in the garage, I don't guess I care. I've got a good tool box and socket set out there I don't want stol'd. I guess I could take it home with me.
FRANK: He's real honest. He wouldn't steal Now son, I wadn't talkin' to you, was I? Was I?
DOYLE: Now son, I wadn't talkin' to you, was I? Was I?
FRANK: No sir.
DOYLE: No sir's right. I'm talkin' to your mama. This is your mama's decision, not yours. I'm lettin' it go on because she asked me, not you. Now is this the kind of retard that drools and rubs shit in his hair and all that, 'cause I have trouble eatin' around that kind of thing. Just like I am about antique furniture and midgets. I can't so much as drink a glass of water around a midget or a piece of antique furniture. Same thing with a droolin' retard.
LINDA: Doyle, you're awful. You shouldn't be that way.
DOYLE: I ain't sayin' it's right. I'm just tellin' the truth. What was he in the nuthouse for?
LINDA: He's just mentally retarded, I He had of went nuts and did somethin'. They don't put you in there for just bein' a retard. They's retards all over the place that ain't in the nuthouse. Do you know, Frank?
DOYLE: He had of went nuts and did somethin'. They don't put you in there for just bein' a retard. They's retards all over the place that ain't in the nuthouse. Do you know, Frank?
FRANK: I ain't sure.
DOYLE: You might want to find out. He might of hacked his family to pieces with a hatchet or somethin'.
LINDA: Yeah, that's right, Frank, you better ask him. I mean, don't hurt his feelin's or anything, but it would be good to know. I'm sure it's nothin'. He seems real sweet.
DOYLE: You sure are hung up on people bein' sweet. Speakin' of which, where's your girlfriend? I thought he was comin' by here for something.
LINDA: He'll be here in a little while, he's takin' me to get an ice cream.
DOYLE: Ain't that the sweetest thing. What am I supposed to do about supper with you traipsin' around with that You're not crippled. Get in there and make somethin'.
LINDA: You're not crippled. Get in there and make somethin'.
DOYLE: Boy, ain't you somethin' else. Talkin' back and everything. It kinda makes me horny when you talk Frank, why don't you go off and play in your room if Doyle's gonna talk nasty.
LINDA: Frank, why don't you go off and play in your room if Doyle's gonna talk nasty.
FRANK: I want to watch T.V.
DOYLE: Yeah, honey, let the kid watch T.V. Hell, let's all watch T.V. like a family till your retarded friend and your homosexual friend gets
VAUGHAN: Karl turns to face Vaughan.
KARL: Yes sir.
VAUGHAN: So, you're really going to stay That boy wants me to.
KARL: That boy wants me to.
VAUGHAN: Did you knock on the door yet?
KARL: Naw, I ain't.
VAUGHAN: How long have you been standing Quite a spell, I reckon.
KARL: Quite a spell, I reckon.
VAUGHAN: Listen, before you get very used to staying here, I think you and I need to talk about a few things. Can I take you to lunch?
KARL: I done et just a little bit ago.
VAUGHAN: I mean tomorrow or the next day.
KARL: I reckon I can stand to eat a little somethin' or 'nother at noontime tomorrow. Bill Cox generally gets me a box of french fried potaters. But I reckon he can lay off doin' it tomorrow.
VAUGHAN: Okay, I'll come by Mr. Cox's and get you at noon.
FRANK: Hey. Y'all come on in.
LINDA: Hey, Vaughan. How are you, Karl?
KARL: Tolerable, I reckon.
LINDA: ( in a hurry to get out ) Karl, this is my boyfriend, Doyle. Frank, why don't you and Karl go out in the garage and fix him up a place or play a game or somethin'. Vaughan, you ready to go?
VAUGHAN: Sure, I guess.
DOYLE: Don't rush ever'body, honey.
LINDA: ( to Frank ) Maybe you and Karl want to go with Naw, I don't want to. Me and Karl got things we need to do.
FRANK: Naw, I don't want to. Me and Karl got things we need to do.
DOYLE: Hey, Vaughan, you know what I heard? I heard you been puttin' it to Albert Sellers that works over at the funeral home.
VAUGHAN: I know Albert. We're friends.
DOYLE: I heard you was more than friends. I heard Dick Rivers caught y'all all bowed up and goin' at it in the same room with poor, little, old Mizz Ogletree and her dead as a doornail layed out on a gurney.
VAUGHAN: That's ridiculous. That's just a total lie.
LINDA: Let's go, Vaughan. Frank, we'll be back in a little while. I'll bring you back somethin'. You're food's in the oven warmin' over.
DOYLE: See, you made him somethin'. Hey Vaughan, I was just goin' on with you, jokin' around, buddy.
VAUGHAN: ( smiles a little ) Yeah, I knew that. You're a card all right.
DOYLE: So, Karl, come have a seat, talk to
FRANK: Come on, Karl, let's go out to the Goddamnit, I'm talkin' to the man. You set right there, Karl.
DOYLE: Goddamnit, I'm talkin' to the man. You set right there, Karl.
KARL: This and that. Toothpaste and What's all them books?
DOYLE: What's all them books?
KARL: Different ones. The Bible's one of You believe in the Bible?
DOYLE: You believe in the Bible?
KARL: A good deal of it, I reckon. Can't understand all of it.
DOYLE: Well, I can't understand none of it. This one begat this one and that one begat this one and begat and begat and begat and lo somebody sayeth some shit or another. Just how retarded are you?
FRANK: Stop it, Doyle!
DOYLE: You be quiet, Frank, we're talkin'. The adults are talkin'. Were you in the lockup for cuttin' somebody up with a hatchet?
KARL: I ain't never used no hatchet that I remember.
DOYLE: You're just crazy in a retarded kind of way then. It wouldn't matter to me if you did do violence on somebody 'cause I ain't afraid of shit. You think I'm afraid for you to stay here. You're just a humped over retard it looks like to me. Not really, I'm just jokin' with you. Welcome to our humble home, buddy. Frank needs all the friends he can get. Frank's a real weak little kid. His daddy taught him how to be a pussy.
FRANK: Stop it, Doyle! Don't talk about daddy, you hear me!
DOYLE: ( mocking ) Don't talk about daddy. Y'all go on to the garage and let me be.
FRANK: Come on, Karl.
DOYLE: ( yelling to Frank ) Don't tell your mama we had a little spat. She don't need to be worried with your ass.
FRANK: I'd like to kill that son of a bitch. I hate him.
KARL: You ort not to talk that way. You're just a boy.
FRANK: Well, I hate him.
KARL: He ort not to talk that away to you neither. He ain't no count. He's mean to you and your mama. Yore mama and that feller that's carryin' me to get somethin' d'eat's gonna be back here Will you stay here with us for a long time?
FRANK: Will you stay here with us for a long time?
KARL: I reckon if you want me to. I got some of that potted meat and sodie crackers left over if you want some.
FRANK: I don't see how you can eat that stuff with all those insides it's made out of.
KARL: I reckon it tastes pretty good to I like the way you talk.
FRANK: I like the way you talk.
KARL: I like the way you talk.
VAUGHAN: Okay, Karl, the reason I brought you here was to talk to you about something that is on my mind. I guess I'll put it right out on the table. Where do I start. Linda and Frank are very important to me. They're like family. My own family was never like family. They're horrible people. As a matter of fact I prayed every night for years that my father would die. I finally realized through a lot of therapy that I was wasting my energy on hating him. Now I just don't care. You see, you and I are a lot alike, strange as that may seem. I mean not physically or even mentally really, just well, maybe emotionally or actually the hand we've been dealt in life. We're different. People see us as being different anyway. You're well you have your affliction or whatever and I, well mine's not as easy to see. I'm just going to say it. I'm gay. Does that surprise you? That I'm gay. You know what being gay is, don't you?
KARL: I reckon not.
VAUGHAN: Homosexual. I like men. Sexually.
KARL: Not funny, ha, ha, funny queer.
VAUGHAN: Well that's a very offensive way to put it. You shouldn't say that. You were taught that, weren't you?
KARL: I've heard it said that way.
VAUGHAN: Anyway, it's hard to live gay, that's the right way to say it, in a small town like this. I've wanted to leave many times, but my love for Linda and Frank and another certain person that we won't go into have kept me from it. Anyway, I'm rambling. If you're going to live in the Wheatly garage you need to know that it won't be easy. Doyle is a monster. Not just a closed minded redneck, but a monster. A dangerous person. I've told Linda that one day that man is going to really hurt her or that boy. Maybe even kill one of them. I see it in his eyes. I'm very in tune, maybe even psychic. Doyle will make your life hell. You're a perfect target. When I first saw you I was afraid of you. Not really afraid, I guess, just taken aback. But also, I felt a real sensitive feeling from you. And for some reason, Frank has adopted you. Much like a stray animal. I'm sorry, I didn't mean it like that. In a good way. Anyway, I just want you to know what you're in for. I have a good feeling about you. You're good for Frank. Maybe it's that he can have an adult friend on a child's I'm sorry, I didn't mean it in a bad way. There's one more thing. It's none of my business why you were in the state hospital. Everyone has something in their past, maybe you tried suicide, maybe you did something terrible. But what I see before me is a gentle, simple man. All I want you to promise me is that you're capable of being around Linda and Frank. You know. You would never hurt them under any circumstances, would you?
KARL: I wouldn't never hurt them.
VAUGHAN: That's what I thought. I hope I haven't offended you in any way. You seem like a thinker. You seem to always be in deep thought. Tell me something. What are you thinking right now?
KARL: I was thinkin' I could use me another helpin' of these potaters.
VAUGHAN: Oh. How about before that?
KARL: Before that I was thinkin' it'd be good if I could get another three or four cans of that potted meat if you got any extry.
LINDA: How come Karl won't eat here with I don't know. He just said he'd eat out there.
FRANK: I don't know. He just said he'd eat out there.
DOYLE: Well, I wouldn't let it get to you.
LINDA: I just feel sorry for the poor Who could eat with him settin' there makin' that goddamn racket with his throat.
DOYLE: Who could eat with him settin' there makin' that goddamn racket with his throat.
LINDA: He does make some funny noises.
FRANK: I sure like the way he talks. It sounds like a race car motor idlin'. It makes me not be nervous.
LINDA: I'm glad of it, honey.
DOYLE: What have you got to be nervous about? You're a damn kid. You ain't got any bills to pay or bidness to run or old lady to stay on your ass all the time.
FRANK: I get nervous, that's all I know.
DOYLE: You know what, by God?
LINDA: You know what we ought to do Please Doyle, don't.
DOYLE: You know what we ought to do Please Doyle, don't.
LINDA: Please Doyle, don't.
DOYLE: Have a damn party! Call Morris and them and get the band together and just party our asses off. I'd like to show that fuckin' Karl to the guys. They'd get a kick out of that. Don't you know they would.
LINDA: Please don't. Not tonight. I'm not up for it. They always stay till mornin'. I'm just give out, Doyle.
DOYLE: You don't have to do anything but pour some potato chips in a bowl and bring beers out when we get Last time you got mad and run Morris and them off and said to stay away from here.
FRANK: Last time you got mad and run Morris and them off and said to stay away from here.
DOYLE: That ain't none of your damn bidness. Besides that's the way friends do one another. Fuck it, I'm gonna go call 'em. Honey, find my guitar, I think it's out there in the garage with that loony tune.
LINDA: Karl, now listen, there's gonna be a party tonight here at the house. Doyle's invited his music-playin' buddies over to make a bunch of racket out on the patio.
FRANK: They ain't even no good. The only one can play is Randy Horsefeathers. He claims he's an Indian. His real name's Randy Collins and he works at the feed mill. He can at least play guitar.
LINDA: He's no more an Indian than I am though. Anyhow, Doyle's gonna try and tease you and be mean to you to show off to his friends. Just like he does to Frank and me sometimes. You just ignore it. Or stay out here away from 'em if he'll let you. He's an okay guy till he gets drunk but tonight he'll get drunk. I guarantee it.
FRANK: He ain't ever okay to me.
DOYLE: Well, it's on! We're gonna rock. Linda, call Vaughan. Tell him to get over here. I'd like him to be here. I owe him a good time.
LINDA: No Doyle. Vaughan don't want to come to a party with you.
DOYLE: Too late, Honey. Fooled you. Done called him. He'll be here. Or I'll go get him. Come on Karl, I need you to help me ice down a tub of beer, you and Frank.
DOYLE: Okay ladies and gentlemen or both. It's come to the time in our show when we like to introduce the band. Over here on lead guitar Mr. Randy Horsefeathers. Come on hit a hot lick, Randy. Well, come on, y'all are supposed to clap now. Come on!
LINDA: Karl, you better clap your hands or he'll just keep on.
DOYLE: On the bass, give it up for Terence "One Ball" Atkins. On the tambourine and lyrics Morris Hobbs the fuckin' genius of the On drums "The Johnson." And last and most importantly, Doyle Hargraves on rhythm guitar and business affairs and the only motherfucker with a truck big enough to haul this outfit on the next world fuckin' tour. Come on, a big hand for these guys. They're workin' their asses off here. Okay I'd like to dedicate this next one to some very special people in our audience tonight. To my lovely female companion Linda, her lovely son Frank, our new boarder Karl - what's your last name Karl?
KARL: Karl Childers just in from the state facility. Make one of them gruntin' sounds Karl or whatever it is you do. Oh well, Karl's a little retarded, he don't know what the hell I'm talkin' about. And to Vaughan who fucks a mortician in the rear entrance right in front of his clients. Now that takes balls. Our number one tune for the folks, boys. Kick it off Johnson!
DOYLE: Karl Childers just in from the state facility. Make one of them gruntin' sounds Karl or whatever it is you do. Oh well, Karl's a little retarded, he don't know what the hell I'm talkin' about. And to Vaughan who fucks a mortician in the rear entrance right in front of his clients. Now that takes balls. Our number one tune for the folks, boys. Kick it off Johnson!
VAUGHAN: Sure. It sounded like a number one tune all right.
DOYLE: You enjoying yourself, Karl?
KARL: I reckon.
DOYLE: ( hollers back ) I told you already three times, the laws on my side. I play cards with J.D. Shelnutt, chief' of police. Get fucked you old bastard! ( to the party ) Okay now, Linda, you and the kid clean up and get a tarpaulin over this instruments. Me and the boys are goin' to the county line. We're out of liquor and beer. Come on Karl, you and Vaughan are goin' with us.
VAUGHAN: I'd better go on home now, it's late. I have to work tomorrow.
DOYLE: Come on, don't be a pussy. Everybody has to work.
LINDA: He don't want to Doyle. Don't go Vaughan if you don't want to. You'll wreck Doyle, you're drunk.
DOYLE: ( very sincere ) But honey, I'll be good. I promise. I love you sweetie. I'm just tryin' to help these two be part of
VAUGHAN: Are you sure you can drive? You've really had a lot of alcohol.
DOYLE: Shhhh! This is the national anthem.
DOYLE: ( points to tape player ) Not that you afflicted sons of bitches would know anything about it, but this is art.
FREDDY: Yeah She was a big 'un. You ain't drunk drivin' are you Doyle?
DOYLE: I figured that. Well you better be careful with that cripple in the back. You'll throw him out. Looks like you got a wagonful.
FREDDY: I figured that. Well you better be careful with that cripple in the back. You'll throw him out. Looks like you got a wagonful.
DOYLE: We run outta somethin' to drink. Goin' to the county line. You want to race?
FREDDY: ( laughing ) You know better than that. We're on duty. Catch me in that Camaro next week one night.
DOYLE: Catch you later Freddy!
VAUGHAN: Oh, yeah, I'm thrilled.
DOYLE: Sarcastic right? You know the boys in the band are probably gonna stay over tonight. We'd be glad to have you.
MORRIS: Anyhow I'm not sure if you follow me on those particular points, but it's not really important in the smaller picture, which is where most people dwell anyway. Not that being manager of Ben's Dollar Store is insignificant. Or that making it through years of incarceration in a state supported facility is any small feat.
THE JOHNSON: Morris, he's the only one in the band that went to college.
RANDY: I'm in junior college right now over in Westfield.
THE JOHNSON: That ain't no college, that's trade school. Auto repair ain't ever made a genius out of nobody.
MORRIS: Holidays are for campers.
RANDY: What do you know about bein' a genius, Johnson. You can't even hardly keep a steady beat on that high-price drum set.
TERENCE: I think y'all play really tight together, Randy. Y'all shouldn't throw off on one another.
MORRIS: Anything that has to be discussed can't mean anything.
DOYLE: You got that shit right.
VAUGHAN: What exactly do you mean by that? I don't understand.
MORRIS: Exactly the point, my young levelheaded friend.
VAUGHAN: I don't get it.
MORRIS: I rest my case.
TERENCE: Morris is real smart with philosophies and things. That's why him and me are the songwriting team of our group. I make up good tunes or melodies as we call them and Morris is the lyrics.
MORRIS: Not unlike Gary Brooker of the Protocol Harum.
RANDY: We don't ever play any songs that y'all wrote. I never even heard one of 'em. Y'all just talk.
THE JOHNSON: We don't even play any songs with words at all that I remember. We ain't got no fuckin' microphone. Or speaker set up.
TERENCE: We wrote one last night standin' outside Mini-Mart. Morris called it "Stuart Drives a Comfortable Car." Then, you know, like on country songs in parenthesis it says "There is usually someone in the trunk." I came up with a tune just humming.
DOYLE: See Vaughan, you shouldn't question a genius. Morris is a modern day poet like in the old days.
MORRIS: Our latest composition is as follows: entitled: "The Thrill" "I stand on the hill Not for a thrill but for a breath of a fresh kill Never mind the man who contemplates doing away with license plates He stands alone anyway Baking the cookies of discontent By the heat of a laundrymat vent Leaving his soul" ( Then like in poetry I have dot dot dot then drop down to the next line kind of off center. ) "Leaving his soul parting waters Under the medulla oblongata of ( then dot dot dot again )
TERENCE: I don't think that's right. I believe dot dot dot come between medulla and oblongata or something like that. Well it did. It wadn't before mankind, I know that much.
MORRIS: The dots are where I say they are. Melody and tune. That's your trade. You're a tunesmith Terence.
VAUGHAN: I don't really understand the meaning of the words.
DOYLE: If y'all don't shut up I'm gonna go out of my mind. And plus you're liable to bust a spring in Karl's head. He's already off balance.
TERENCE: That wadn't the way you made it up before, Morris. That's all I know.
RANDY: We don't need fancy words, we need to practice. We don't ever We need some payin' gigs instead of just messin' around on first one patio and then another'n.
THE JOHNSON: We need some payin' gigs instead of just messin' around on first one patio and then another'n.
RANDY: Morris, you should just be the manager, you can't play nothin'
DOYLE: We don't have a goddamn band! Y'all just shut the fuck up! We don't need no practicin' or managers cause we ain't no fuckin' band! Morris ain't no genius and the rest of you are just losers. Am I the only one sane human bein' around here? Just get the hell out of my house and don't come back!
VAUGHAN: It's not your house, Doyle, it's I'll kill you, you fuckin' faggot! You mind your own business. Now get out! Now, before I get too mad to turn back.
DOYLE: I'll kill you, you fuckin' faggot! You mind your own business. Now get out! Now, before I get too mad to turn back.
TERENCE: What about our instruments?
DOYLE: They all file out the door except Vaughan and Karl who sit frozen on the sofa.
THE JOHNSON: ( turning back ) You ain't right Doyle. Somethin's wrong with you. Nobody needs your ( stops at the door ) The dots just look good on paper. You don't sing 'em anyway. You're showing your true Aries colors now.
MORRIS: ( stops at the door ) The dots just look good on paper. You don't sing 'em anyway. You're showing your true Aries colors now.
DOYLE: Get out of my goddamn face, you fuckin' buzzard!
LINDA: This is not your house, Doyle. This is my house and I'll say who stays and goes. You've got a house, why don't you go get one of your girlfriends and go home to it.
DOYLE: You know better than to talk like that when I'm hurtin'. Don't make me knock the piss out of you.
VAUGHAN: Doyle, don't you lay one hand on That's funny. You go to bed and take snot nose with you.
DOYLE: That's funny. You go to bed and take snot nose with you.
LINDA: You're not stayin' here tonight. Go get sober before you come back. I'm tired of my child seein' this. Now you get yourself straight or I'll lock your ass out of my life for You know what I told you, you even think of leavin' me, I'll kill you dead as a doornail.
DOYLE: You know what I told you, you even think of leavin' me, I'll kill you dead as a doornail.
LINDA: That might be better than this.
VAUGHAN: I'm a witness. I heard you threaten her life.
DOYLE: I thought I told you to keep out!
LINDA: Don't tell me what to do.
DOYLE: Don't tell me what to do.
LINDA: Don't tell me what to do.
DOYLE: Don't tell me what to do.
LINDA: Don't tell me what to do.
DOYLE: Don't tell me what to do.
LINDA: ( an inch from her face ) Don't tell me what to do.
DOYLE: ( an inch from her face ) Don't tell me what to do.
FRANK: I hate you!
DOYLE: Well, I hate you, too. No I don't. I love your mama. Nobody understands what I go through. I'll leave. You bunch of freaks have fun. I'll call you tomorrow honey. I'm sorry. You can kiss my ass, You ever hit me again you little bastard and I'll make you sorry your daddy ever squirted your little ass out.
FRANK: You all right, Mama?
LINDA: I'm fine, honey. Let's just try and forget about tonight.
FRANK: We don't need to think bad thoughts, do we Mama?
LINDA: No, honey, we don't. I'll make some coffee and start cleanin' up this mess. Karl, you want some coffee, huh?
KARL: No, ma'am. Coffee kindly makes me nervous when I drink it.
LINDA: What are you doin' up again, Frank? You need to get a little sleep.
FRANK: Did Vaughan go home?
LINDA: Yeah, he has to go to work in a little while. I do too.
FRANK: Did Karl go to bed?
LINDA: I guess. He went to the garage. Poor thing, he's probably never seen such a crazy mess. He probably wants to go back and live in Mr. Cox's shop.
FRANK: I bet he don't. Karl likes me.
LINDA: I know he does.
FRANK: Is everything gonna be all right someday? I just stay nervous all the time just about.
LINDA: Is everything gonna be all right someday? I just stay nervous all the time just about.
FRANK: Is everything gonna be all right someday? I just stay nervous all the time just about.
LINDA: Yeah, honey, someday everything's gonna be all right.
FRANK: Doyle wouldn't really kill you, would he?
LINDA: I promise we're gonna get away from him. The time has to be right, that's all. I'd rather him get tired of me and leave me. Then he wouldn't want to hurt me. He wouldn't care then. We'll be fine. I promise. You go to bed now. I love you.
FRANK: I love you, too, Mama.
LINDA: You scared me.
KARL: I didn't aim to.
LINDA: Want to sit down? Did you need No ma'am.
KARL: No ma'am.
LINDA: ( puzzled ) I'll be dog.
KARL: Do you reckon you can make me some Right now?
LINDA: Right now?
KARL: Just whenever you take a notion to. I don't aim to put you out.
LINDA: Well, it is nearly breakfast time anyway. I can't go to sleep. I have to be at work in three hours. You know how it is when you just sleep an hour or two, you feel worse than if you hadn't slept at all?
KARL: Yes ma'am.
LINDA: Well, set down and I'll make some biscuits and gravy.
KARL: Mustard's good on 'em to me.
LINDA: Karl sets at the table and Linda starts to make the biscuits.
KARL: Thank ye.
LINDA: It's all right. You know I was thinkin' there's this girl that works with me. She's real heavy, but she's cute in the face. Well, you know, she's slow. She's a little bit, I think. She's not retarded, just it don't matter, listen to me. I thought you might like to meet her. Vaughan wants to have a little supper over at his house and we could invite her. Would you like that?
KARL: I wouldn't mind a havin' supper.
LINDA: Vaughan's "friend" will be there, too. He works at the funeral home. And Frank. You know Frank likes you a lot. He says you make him feel I like Frank. He's a good boy. Me and him's made friends.
KARL: I like Frank. He's a good boy. Me and him's made friends.
LINDA: That's okay. It's not really my business. I have wondered though. Why was it? Was it like a nervous I killed my mother and a old boy name Jesse Dixon. I thought they was a-doin' wrong. I was about your boy's age. They say I'm well now from it.
KARL: I killed my mother and a old boy name Jesse Dixon. I thought they was a-doin' wrong. I was about your boy's age. They say I'm well now from it.
LINDA: Was that you? I remember that. I was only three or four, but I always heard about it growin' up. They say you're well?
KARL: Yes ma'am. I like your garage. I wouldn't never hurt you or your boy. I'd lay my hand on the Bible and say the same thing.
LINDA: I believe you. I really do.
BILL: How 'bout you, Jerry.
WOOLRIDGE: How are you, Bill?
BILL: Doin' pretty good. Got a sick tiller here. What's got you down this way?
WOOLRIDGE: Just thought I'd check on Karl and see if everything's working out.
BILL: Well, he's pretty quiet. Except for them rackets and breathin' things he does. Ain't threatened me with a killin' or anything. But boy you couldn't of been more right about him fixin' things. That son of a bitch is a regular Eli Whitney on a lawnmower. Loves french fries. Eats four larges and don't even so much as belch. I'm proud to have him.
WOOLRIDGE: Is him stayin' here workin' out?
BILL: He's gone to stayin' over with that Wheatley boy and his mama in their garage. I think that little boy adopted him damn near like a mascot. But he's got a key here to come and go as he pleases. Everything's worked out good.
WOOLRIDGE: Can I see him?
BILL: Bill looks over at Scooter, who is putting up a sale sign on new mowers in the front window.
WOOLRIDGE: Are you sure you're okay staying with that woman and boy?
KARL: Yes sir.
WOOLRIDGE: Do they know about you?
KARL: My history.
WOOLRIDGE: I told 'em about it. They know I'm well. That Mizz Wheatley made me some biscuits.
KARL: I told 'em about it. They know I'm well. That Mizz Wheatley made me some biscuits.
WOOLRIDGE: I'll be.
KARL: That boy, he's my friend. He likes the way I talk and I like the way he talks.
WOOLRIDGE: I knew you'd do all right. Well, I just wanted to check on you. I'll say bye to Bill and get on back.
BILL: Karl, see if you can figure out what's wrong with this thing. It won't crank up and ever'thing seems to be put together right.
WOOLRIDGE: I'll see you, Bill.
BILL: Okay, stop back by. Don't worry about your boy here, he's doin'
KARL: Hit ain't got no gas in it.
BILL: See there. Thinks of the simplest thing first.
ALBERT: So Karl, do you intend to stay in the lawnmower business for a while or do you have other plans?
KARL: I reckon.
VAUGHAN: I think Karl is going to be a writer or a librarian eventually. You should see all the books he has. He must read constantly.
KARL: I ain't read 'em yet except two or three of 'em. I can't understand a lot of what I try to read. My mind, hit wonders off to somethin' else when I try to read.
ALBERT: I'm the same way. Of course, in my line of work, I stay too busy to But at least I have job security. People may stop doing a lot of things, but one thing is for sure, they won't stop dying.
LINDA: ( looks at Frank ) Why don't we talk about something a little more festive.
VAUGHAN: Does everyone like the food?
LINDA: Hey Karl, you know what? Melinda was voted employee of the month at the Dollar Store last February. Isn't that somethin'?
KARL: Yes ma'am, I reckon.
MELINDA: Well, when you like pricing items as much as I do, I guess it's just bound to happen sooner or later.
VAUGHAN: Karl, maybe you and Melinda might want to take a walk or something after dinner. It's a nice night.
LINDA: Vaughan, don't get pushy.
VAUGHAN: I'm sorry.
KARL: I like walkin' quite a bit from time to time.
MELINDA: I stay on my feet all the time at work. I just can't find shoes that's comfortable.
ALBERT: Hospital shoes might be the answer. Nurses' shoes.
VAUGHAN: Or the kind old ladies who work in the school cafeteria wear.
ALBERT: Same difference.
MELINDA: I get real mean when my feet hurt. It's the only time I don't like checkin' out the customers, when my feet hurt.
LINDA: Frank, you and Karl aren't talkin' much, you boys must really like that food.
FRANK: I just don't have anything to say about shoes.
VAUGHAN: Listen everybody, I know this may sound corny, I've had a few glasses of wine and that kind of makes me a little emotional, but I'm going to say it anyway. It just came over me in a rush. I want you all to know that I care about each and every one of you at this table.
LINDA: That's very sweet of you Vaughan. We care about you, too. Don't we
VAUGHAN: Also, Melinda, please don't tell anybody at the store that Albert was here tonight, okay.
MELINDA: Well, a lot of people in town talk and spread cruel rumors. Unfortunately, I have to keep certain parts of my life private.
VAUGHAN: Well, a lot of people in town talk and spread cruel rumors. Unfortunately, I have to keep certain parts of my life private.
MELINDA: You mean about y'all bein' together in "that" way?
VAUGHAN: I think everybody at the store knows that already. They always talk about it. Maureen Ledbetter told a awful story about why you ain't allowed over at the First Baptist Church no more.
MELINDA: I think everybody at the store knows that already. They always talk about it. Maureen Ledbetter told a awful story about why you ain't allowed over at the First Baptist Church no more.
LINDA: Karl, why don't you and Melinda go take a walk. It's nice out.
KARL: All right then.
MELINDA: You walk fast, don't you?
KARL: I reckon.
MELINDA: These is the worst shoes I own for walkin'. How far did you want to I ain't really thought about it too much I don't reckon.
KARL: I ain't really thought about it too much I don't reckon.
BILL: Hey Karl, they's somebody out here to see you. Some gal holding a nice Come on now, she wants to talk to you. Don't just set there.
MELINDA: Hi, Karl, I'm on lunch break. These was on sale 'cause they're not fresh. Two ninety-nine a bunch plus my ten percent employee discount. Since I didn't bring you anything to our date last night, I thought you'd like to have 'em.
KARL: Thank ye.
BILL: Scooter, let's me and you go over to Dairy Queen and pick up a few things for lunchtime.
SCOOTER: I can go. You don't have to. You don't never go.
BILL: Goddamnit, Scooter, come on. Pardon my language, ma'am.
MELINDA: Well, I just thought I'd give you them. I liked walkin' with you. I got a blister the size of a quarter on one heel. Well, I'll see you sometime, I guess.
KARL: A blister shore can hurt.
MELINDA: Flowers is pretty. I've always thought that.
KARL: Flowers is pretty. I've always thought that.
MELINDA: Me, too.
FRANK: Hey Karl, you off work?
KARL: Where'd you get them flowers?
FRANK: Where'd you get them flowers?
KARL: That gal that made employee of the month give 'em to me for awalkin' with her.
FRANK: I was goin' to the secret place. I borried one of your books to take down there. You ain't mad, are you?
KARL: Naw. You can look at all my books you want to.
FRANK: It's name's A Christmas Carol.
KARL: That's than un on Christmas I was tellin' you about.
FRANK: You want to go with me?
KARL: EXT. SECRET PLACE - NIGHT Karl and Frank sit in the clearing, Karl on the stump, Frank on the ground. Frank is shining the flashlight on the book. He finishes reading a few lines and turns off the flashlight.
FRANK: I'm gettin' tired of readin' for a All right then.
KARL: All right then.
FRANK: Boy, folks sure had it rough back a long time ago, didn't they?
KARL: Yeah, I reckon they did. Hit like to tore me up when I read about that pore little cripple boy.
FRANK: Yeah, me too. That was nice of that woman to give you them flowers.
KARL: Hit was right thoughty of her.
FRANK: I was wantin' to ask you somethin'.
KARL: All right then.
FRANK: You know that girl I told you about. The one I love.
KARL: Yeah, I recollect it.
FRANK: Would you go see her with me? I kind of thought I might take her some flowers like that woman done If you want me to.
KARL: If you want me to.
FRANK: I ain't got no money to get 'em with but I bet Vaughan will let me have some of them flowers at the I bet he will. I got a little money if he don't. I'll get 'em for ye.
KARL: I bet he will. I got a little money if he don't. I'll get 'em for ye.
FRANK: I usually get run off by her mama or daddy if they're home. Reckon why they don't like me?
KARL: They ort to. You're a good boy.
FRANK: Just 'cause I'm not rich don't mean I don't love her.
KARL: And I don't try to touch her. You know, in a bad way. Foolin' around, sex and all.
FRANK: And I don't try to touch her. You know, in a bad way. Foolin' around, sex and all.
KARL: That's real good. You ort not to if ye ain't married to somebody. Bible tells you that much. Hit tells some things that don't seem right too, I reckon. I guess a feller ort to foller it close as he can, though. You don't touch yourself, do you?
FRANK: What do you mean?
KARL: Pull on your works. Your privates.
FRANK: Oh, jackin' off?
KARL: Yes sir. You ort not know that I didn't know till here while back a year or two ago when I spent the night with Ronnie Smart one time. He said just tug on your peter and think about your mama. I tried it, but I felt funny thinkin' about my mama. So, I switched over to thinkin' about his mama and then what he told me would happen, happened. It sure tingles, don't You ort not to pull on yourself that away.
FRANK: I didn't know till here while back a year or two ago when I spent the night with Ronnie Smart one time. He said just tug on your peter and think about your mama. I tried it, but I felt funny thinkin' about my mama. So, I switched over to thinkin' about his mama and then what he told me would happen, happened. It sure tingles, don't You ort not to pull on yourself that away.
KARL: You ort not to pull on yourself that away.
FRANK: I kind of like you tellin' me what to do and not to do. Just like my daddy. I didn't mind him tellin' me. I hate Doyle to tell me what to do. Mama said the only way to ever get away from him is for him to get away from us. That we can't leave him or he'll try and hurt her.
KARL: He ain't no count.
FRANK: You don't seem like a daddy. You seem like a brother. Wonder what makes you like somebody right off when you don't even know 'em like what happened with me and I don't reckon I know.
KARL: I don't reckon I know.
FRANK: And then some people you don't like right off. It's funny. You know why I want you to play ball with me?
KARL: 'Cause it's fun. It don't matter if you ain't no good. It takes your mind off of everything else while you're doin' it. When you run real fast tryin' to make a touchdown you don't think about anything else. I ain't no good, but my daddy always said he was proud of me when I threw a ball or ran with it. Did you have any brothers and sisters growin' up to play with?
FRANK: 'Cause it's fun. It don't matter if you ain't no good. It takes your mind off of everything else while you're doin' it. When you run real fast tryin' to make a touchdown you don't think about anything else. I ain't no good, but my daddy always said he was proud of me when I threw a ball or ran with it. Did you have any brothers and sisters growin' up to play with?
KARL: I had one there for little bit. Hit didn't get old enough to play with.
FRANK: Why not? It died?
KARL: Hit was borned a little too early on. My mother and father made hit come too early some way or other. I reckon they changed their mind about havin' another'n. I was about six or eight year old then and they didn't care too much for me so I reckon they didn't need somethin' else to worry 'em with.
FRANK: Hit was borned a little too early on. My mother and father made hit come too early some way or other. I reckon they changed their mind about havin' another'n. I was about six or eight year old then and they didn't care too much for me so I reckon they didn't need somethin' else to worry 'em with.
KARL: Hit was borned a little too early on. My mother and father made hit come too early some way or other. I reckon they changed their mind about havin' another'n. I was about six or eight year old then and they didn't care too much for me so I reckon they didn't need somethin' else to worry 'em with.
FRANK: So it died when it come out?
KARL: My daddy come to the shed out back and got me and said throw this here away and handed me a towel with somethin' in it. I went for the trash barrel there and opened up the towel to see 'cause they was a noise and somethin' movin' in it. Hit was bloody-like around that towel. Hit was a little ol' bitty baby, no bigger than a squirrel.
FRANK: It was alive?
KARL: Yes sir. Right then it was.
FRANK: A boy or girl?
KARL: A little ol' boy.
FRANK: You threw it in a trash barrel?
KARL: I didn't feel right about doin' that. I takened a shoe box from there in the shed and emptied out some screwdrivers and nuts and warshers from it and put the little feller in that and buried him in the corner of the yard there. That seemed more proper to me, I reckon.
FRANK: It was still alive when you buried I heared it cryin' a little through that box.
KARL: I heared it cryin' a little through that box.
FRANK: That don't seem right. It seems like you should have kept him alive and took care of him if he was your I wadn't but six or eight. I reckon I didn't know what to do. I didn't know how to care for no baby. Mama and Daddy didn't want him. They learned me to do what they told me to. These days I figure it might of been best to give him right back to the Good Lord right off the bat That makes me feel real sad. Couldn't you have done somethin', Karl? I would have. I wish I would of had him. He'd be here right now. Hits been hard thinkin' about it. They ain't a day goes by I don't think about it. I kindly have a picture of it up in my head that I see. Hit makes me sad, too. I have bad thoughts on it. I wished they was somethin' I could of did, too. Shouldn't no bad things happen to childern. All the ol' bad things ort to be saved up for folks that's growed up, the way I see it. I shouldn't of told you about that. A boy ort not hear about such things. It just kindly come out.
KARL: I wadn't but six or eight. I reckon I didn't know what to do. I didn't know how to care for no baby. Mama and Daddy didn't want him. They learned me to do what they told me to. These days I figure it might of been best to give him right back to the Good Lord right off the bat That makes me feel real sad. Couldn't you have done somethin', Karl? I would have. I wish I would of had him. He'd be here right now. Hits been hard thinkin' about it. They ain't a day goes by I don't think about it. I kindly have a picture of it up in my head that I see. Hit makes me sad, too. I have bad thoughts on it. I wished they was somethin' I could of did, too. Shouldn't no bad things happen to childern. All the ol' bad things ort to be saved up for folks that's growed up, the way I see it. I shouldn't of told you about that. A boy ort not hear about such things. It just kindly come out.
FRANK: That makes me feel real sad. Couldn't you have done somethin', Karl? I would have. I wish I would of had him. He'd be here right now. Hits been hard thinkin' about it. They ain't a day goes by I don't think about it. I kindly have a picture of it up in my head that I see. Hit makes me sad, too. I have bad thoughts on it. I wished they was somethin' I could of did, too. Shouldn't no bad things happen to childern. All the ol' bad things ort to be saved up for folks that's growed up, the way I see it. I shouldn't of told you about that. A boy ort not hear about such things. It just kindly come out.
KARL: Hits been hard thinkin' about it. They ain't a day goes by I don't think about it. I kindly have a picture of it up in my head that I see. Hit makes me sad, too. I have bad thoughts on it. I wished they was somethin' I could of did, too. Shouldn't no bad things happen to childern. All the ol' bad things ort to be saved up for folks that's growed up, the way I see it. I shouldn't of told you about that. A boy ort not hear about such things. It just kindly come out.
FRANK: I didn't mean to say anything bad about you. I know you're good. You didn't mean no harm. Did you ever think about killin' yourself on purpose like my daddy I've studied about it. The Bible says not to or you end up goin' to Hades. Some folks calls it Hell, I call it Hades.
KARL: I've studied about it. The Bible says not to or you end up goin' to Hades. Some folks calls it Hell, I call it Hades.
FRANK: Bible says the same thing about killin' others, too.
KARL: Yes sir, I reckon it does.
FRANK: I always get nervous when I hear that doorbell. I'm okay just walkin' over, but somethin' about that dang doorbell. They have one room where you can't walk on the carpet or sit on the furniture. I don't see much sense in havin' it.
HOUSEKEEPER: ( eyes Karl ) Son, I don't know why you keep comin' over here. You know these folks don't want you here. They run you off ever' time. Don't keep doin' this to yourself. You a sweet boy. Now go give them flowers to somebody that'll enjoy 'em.
FRANK: Ma'am, I really want to give them to Karen.
HOUSEKEEPER: ( to Karl ) You his daddy?
KARL: No ma'am.
HOUSEKEEPER: Well, whoever you are, you ought to talk some sense into him. That little old girl is way too fast for him and don't wanna see him no way.
FRANK: Will you get her for me. Please. I really want to see her. She'll want to see me, too, 'cause we're not in public. Just don't tell her folks I'm here.
HOUSEKEEPER: ( sighs )
KAREN: ( put out ) Hey Frank. You shouldn't be coming over here. My parents really don't want you to.
FRANK: I wanted to bring you some flowers. They're pretty good ones.
KAREN: They're from the Dollar Store. I'm not an idiot. Besides we have a garden full of flowers.
FRANK: I wanted for you to meet Karl, too. He's my new friend. But I feel like I've always known him. I thought you should meet him.
KAREN: Why? Hi, Karl.
FRANK: He's gonna be around a lot and I hope you are too, so.
KAREN: Here give me the flowers, I'll do something with them. Thank you. Now you better go. Maybe I'll see you down at the secret place one day in a week or two or something. I have a boyfriend now you know. And we're pretty serious. He gave me a ring.
FRANK: Can you go there with us now? Me and Karl. We could just hang out. Karl has some cool books.
KAREN: Frank, I just like you as a friend. Only at the secret place. Okay? I can't go there now. I'll see you But maybe just for awhile
FRANK: But maybe just for awhile
KAREN: I'm closing the door now. I told you, I'll see you later.
FRANK: She said she'd see me later. That's kinda good, right?
KARL: I reckon.
DOYLE: Well, I'll be damned, there's the boys. I'm glad y'all came in. I wanted to talk to y'all, too. I was just tellin' Linda here Oh hell, I'll just start over, set down you
LINDA: Well, at least he's tryin'. But who knows for how long.
FRANK: He's lyin' Mama. He ain't gonna do I know honey. Just remember what I said, we'll bide our time. You just steer clear of him as much as you can. Doyle's had a real hard life. It's just about run him crazy I We've had a real hard life, too,
LINDA: I know honey. Just remember what I said, we'll bide our time. You just steer clear of him as much as you can. Doyle's had a real hard life. It's just about run him crazy I We've had a real hard life, too,
FRANK: We've had a real hard life, too,
LINDA: You're a hell of a boy, Frank. Someday you're gonna get all the good things you deserve. And Karl here's gonna get some more biscuits tonight. What do you think about I could shore use some. Thank ye.
KARL: I could shore use some. Thank ye.
BILL: Hey there Karl, can you come unload a generator for me?
BILL: Karl, lift this thing down and carry it to the back. It's on the We'll have it for you in a day or two, Walter.
WALTER: Y'ont us to he'p you there liftin' Oh no, that dang Karl can lift a bulldozier. Fix anything, too. He's mentally retarded, but he's a whiz on small engines. Lord works in mysterious ways.
BILL: Oh no, that dang Karl can lift a bulldozier. Fix anything, too. He's mentally retarded, but he's a whiz on small engines. Lord works in mysterious ways.
WALTER: Hell, he didn't just make the team, Coach says he's probably gonna start at end on defense. He's a chip off the old block. Ain't you, I guess so.
STEVE: I guess so.
FRANK: What you readin'?
KARL: Readin' on this book on how to work carpentry. I aim to learn how to build things out of wood one of these times. I've always been partial to wood buildin's and cabinets and whatnot. These drawin's they got here don't make no sense to me so far. You seem like yore tails a'draggin' a might. You got somethin' wrong with ye?
FRANK: Seems like Doyle's wormed his way back in. Mama said he's stayin' over tonight and he's talkin' about movin' in for good. We ain't ever gonna be happy. We'll always be nervous, won't we Karl?
KARL: I don't reckon I know. I ain't found no way yet and I'm three or four times as old as you. Might be that's just the way folks is.
FRANK: I feel sad about Karen Cross, too. I just make like to myself she loves me. I know better, though. It just feels good to me when I imagine it.
KARL: Make believin' always made me feel good too from time to time.
FRANK: Is that right?
KARL: I'll play ball with ye. I reckon if neither one of us is no count it won't make no difference.
FRANK: You will? For sure?
KARL: We'll be on teams, me and you?
FRANK: We'll be on teams, me and you?
KARL: EXT. JUNIOR HIGH FOOTBALL FIELD - DAY It's the practice field, so it's not very well kept. Karl, Frank, and two other boys around Frank's age are huddled up. Four boys are lined on defense. They break the huddle and come to the line. They are on about the fifty-yard line. Frank hikes the ball to one of the boys. He later als it to Karl who stands there for a minute as the defenders run toward him. Then he takes off like the wind. He runs funny, kind of humped over and pigeon-toed, but fast. All the others are chasing him. Two of the other team's boys catch him on about the fifteen-yard line, but he drags them along. Karl sees Frank out of the corner of his eye and tosses him the ball just as Karl bites the dirt. Frank goes into the end zone untouched. There are cheers from Frank and the other boys. Frank runs over to Karl who's still on the ground.
FRANK: Way to go, Karl. We got a touchdown. That was a good lateral, man. That was just like the I dern near had me a touchdown till them boys got a-hold of me there so I figured I better give it off to you. I seen you over there follerin' me.
KARL: I dern near had me a touchdown till them boys got a-hold of me there so I figured I better give it off to you. I seen you over there follerin' me.
FRANK: We're liable to win if we keep this up. For somebody like you, you sure run fast.
FRANK: I know you could of scored them three touchdowns by yourself instead of throwing 'em over to me.
KARL: Them boys was tryin' to pull me down pretty hard.
FRANK: You're strong though. You let me make them touchdowns so I'd feel good. My daddy used to do that kind of thing.
KARL: No sir.
FRANK: It was fun, anyhow.
KARL: I wadn't thinkin' about nothin' else just like you told me I'd do.
FRANK: Can we play ever' Saturday?
KARL: If I ain't too stove up. I ain't like you. I'm old and give out. I'm proud of ye.
KARL: I'm ye boy.
OLD MAN: I ain't got no boy.
KARL: I'm ye oldest boy name Karl.
OLD MAN: I ain't got no boy.
KARL: They turned me aloose from the nervous hospital. Said I was well.
OLD MAN: I told you, I ain't got no boy, now get on out from here and let me be.
KARL: I learned to read some. I've read on the Bible quite a bit. I don't understand all of it, but I believe I understand a good deal of it. Them stories Mama and you told me ain't in there. You ort not to of done that to ye boy. I've studied on killin' you. But I don't reckon they's no reason fer it if all you're gonna do is set there in that chair. You'll be dead soon enough I reckon and the world'll be shut of ye. You ort not to of killed my brother. He ort to have had a chance to grow up. Sometimes he would of had fun.
KARL: Little feller.
DOYLE: What in the goddamn hell are you doin'? It's the middle of the What do you want, hun?
LINDA: What do you want, hun?
KARL: I want to be baptized.
DOYLE: Baptized? Well, get baptized then. I don't give a shit. Call a fuckin' preacher, goddamnit! I can't baptize you.
LINDA: We'll go to church and get you baptized, tomorrow's Sunday. You go on back to bed.
DOYLE: What are you doin' with that damn I don't rightly know. I just kindly woke up a-holdin' it.
KARL: I don't rightly know. I just kindly woke up a-holdin' it.
DOYLE: How'd your baptizin' go?
LINDA: It went real good.
DOYLE: Well, that's good. It's about time to eat and you know what I'm cravin'? Some of that take out chicken. Why don't you run get some of it, honey, for lunch?
LINDA: ( to Frank and Karl ) Would y'all like that?
FRANK: Yeah, I guess.
KARL: Yes ma'am. I like a fried chicken All right, y'all gonna go with me?
LINDA: All right, y'all gonna go with me?
DOYLE: Naw, hell, let them stay here with me and do men things. There might be some kind of ball game on we can watch. You go on.
LINDA: I'll be back in a little bit then.
DOYLE: I really just wanted to git your mama out of the house for a minute so we can have a talk. Y'all set
DOYLE: Now here's the deal. Now that I'm gonna throw my entire life away doin' what I want to come live here with y'all, we have to get a few things straight. See, Frank, me and you mama wouldn't have any problems if it wadn't for you. We'd never have a bad word between us. But since you do exist, if I'm gonna be here as the head of the household, we'll have to live by my rules. And my rules are you don't speak unless you're spoken to. Stay out of my way and do what a regular kid does. You're a weird little shit. I don't get you. So wake up. Face what they call reality. We're gonna be a family now. And it's my family. I'll be payin' the bills so you got me. But I ain't your daddy. You just treat me like I am. I'm the boss, okay. And the other thing is your friend Karl has to go. We can't have a normal family with him livin' in the garage and comin' in the bedroom at four in the mornin' with hammers and shit. See?
FRANK: Karl can stay if he wants to. Mama
KARL: Don't hit that boy no more.
DOYLE: You shut up you, fuckin' retard. Get your shit and get out of here. That was a wake-up slap, Frank. Remember. Reality, like I said. Don't forget any bit of what I said to you and we'll be fine.
LINDA: Where are you goin', Karl? Didn't you want some chicken and things?
KARL: No ma'am. I'm a'goin' off sommers.
LINDA: Well, okay. I got you some.
KARL: Frank, he went off, too. He ain't gonna be in there when you get Where'd he go? What's goin' on?
LINDA: Where'd he go? What's goin' on?
KARL: He wanted to go off and play, I You go in there and you and that Doyle eat ye dinner. You don't have to worry yourself none.
LINDA: All right then. Well, I'll see you later. If you see Frank, tell him to come on back home. I don't get to see him all day except Sundays. He can play tomorrow.
KARL: You're a good mama to that boy. You care for him. You work hard fer him to take care of him. You light him up in his eyes, I've seen it. He wouldn't know what to do without Well thank you, hun. That's real good of you to say. I wouldn't know what to do without him either.
LINDA: You're a good mama to that boy. You care for him. You work hard fer him to take care of him. You light him up in his eyes, I've seen it. He wouldn't know what to do without Well thank you, hun. That's real good of you to say. I wouldn't know what to do without him either.
KARL: You're a good mama to that boy. You care for him. You work hard fer him to take care of him. You light him up in his eyes, I've seen it. He wouldn't know what to do without Well thank you, hun. That's real good of you to say. I wouldn't know what to do without him either.
LINDA: Well thank you, hun. That's real good of you to say. I wouldn't know what to do without him either.
KARL: You've been real good to me, too. It ain't ever'body that'd make biscuits in the middle of the night. You and that boy has give me a good feelin'.
LINDA: We sure like havin' you.
KARL: Thank ye. I'm just getting around to tellin' you, but I fixed your warshin'
FRANK: Hey, Karl. How'd you know to come out here?
KARL: I knowed you'd be here. What are you a-doin' digging with that stob?
FRANK: Just diggin'. I ain't ever gonna be happy now. Not with that son of a bitch movin' in for good. I wish me and you and Mama could just run away. But she said he would find us wherever we went. He's crazy. Sometimes I think it would of been better if I wadn't ever born.
KARL: I'm glad of it you was borned. I reckon I ain't gonna be there in the garage no more.
FRANK: You have to Karl. You have to look out for me. You don't let that son of a bitch run you off.
KARL: You're just a boy. You ort not to use that sort of language.
FRANK: Karl, I ain't tryin' to say nothin' bad about you, but why don't you stop Doyle when he gets that away? You're older than him. You're strong, too. My daddy wouldn't let him do that to me and Mama.
KARL: That feller's a whole sight meaner than me. He'd just whup the tar out of me.
FRANK: Yeah, I guess so. I'm real tired, you know that. A kid my age shouldn't be tired of things.
KARL: I'm tired, too, Frank. If I ain't around no more, it don't mean I don't care fer ye. I care for ye a good deal. I care for you more than anybody they is. We made friends right off the bat.
FRANK: I care for you, too. But you'll be around, don't say that.
KARL: Hit don't make no difference where I was to be. We'll always be friends. There ain't no way to stop I aim for you to have these books.
KARL: Maybe you can make more sense out of them than I can. I made you a little old book marker and stuck it in that book on You don't want to give away all your books.
FRANK: You don't want to give away all your books.
KARL: I aim fer you to have 'em.
FRANK: Man. Thanks. You know when you get a feelin' and you don't know why?
KARL: Yes sir.
FRANK: I've got a feelin' today.
KARL: Reckon what kind of a feelin'?
FRANK: Like something different. I don't You're leavin' ain't you, Karl?
KARL: Will ye do somethin' for me if I ast you to?
FRANK: You know I would. Whatever you Don't go home tonight and stay with that Doyle. He's got it in for ye tonight. I got me a feelin', too. Feels like to me you ort not be there in that house with him liquored up and mean. Ye mama neither. When you get up from here, I want you to go to that feller's house. Your mama's friend. I want you to give me your word on it.
KARL: Don't go home tonight and stay with that Doyle. He's got it in for ye tonight. I got me a feelin', too. Feels like to me you ort not be there in that house with him liquored up and mean. Ye mama neither. When you get up from here, I want you to go to that feller's house. Your mama's friend. I want you to give me your word on it.
FRANK: Okay. I give you my word. Is ever'thing gonna be okay? Are you all right?
KARL: Ever'thing's okay, boy. I kindly want to put my arm around ye for a minute and then I'm gonna go on and leave here.
FRANK: Karl lays his arm on Frank's shoulder and Frank puts his hand on Karl's arm. They sit like that for a few moments, then Karl gets up with his paper sack and walks away. Frank takes the book marker out of the Christmas book. It is just a folded piece of notebook paper. On it is written 'You will be happy.' He looks up at Karl who is now thirty yards away in the trees.
VAUGHAN: Karl, what are you doing here? Come I ain't a-stayin'. I need to ast you fer a favor.
KARL: I ain't a-stayin'. I need to ast you fer a favor.
VAUGHAN: This evenin' I want you to go get Mizz Wheatley and that Frank and have them stay with you tonight.
KARL: This evenin' I want you to go get Mizz Wheatley and that Frank and have them stay with you tonight.
VAUGHAN: What's wrong? Is everything okay?
KARL: That dern Doyle is in a bad way again with that drinkin' and bein' mean to folks. Will you give me your word you'll do it?
VAUGHAN: Well, sure, okay. He hasn't hurt them, has he?
KARL: Naw, not yet. I want ye to give this to Mizz Wheatley. Hit ain't much, but maybe there's a little somethin' to hep out. Hits what I've earned fixin' lawnmowers and whatnot fer Bill
VAUGHAN: What about you, Karl? Do you want to stay here?
KARL: I don't reckon you have to go with women to be a daddy to a boy. You've been real square dealin' with me. The Bible says two men ort not lay together. But I'll bet you the Good Lord wouldn't send nobody like you to Hades. Some folks calls it Hell, I call it Hades. That boy lives inside of his own heart. Hits an awful big place. You take care of that boy.
DOYLE: Where's ever'body else? You seen I thought I told you to get the hell moved out of here anyway.
KARL: How does a feller go about gettin' ahold of the police?
KARL: What numbers do you punch?
DOYLE: I told you to get away from here, didn't I? I'm tryin' to relax and look at TV. What are you doin' with that piece of iron? I swear to God you're the weirdest son of a bitch I ever heard of.
KARL: I aim to kill you with it.
DOYLE: Yeah, okay. Well, to get the police you push 911. You'll need to tell 'em to send an ambulance, too. Or a hearse. You fuckin' idiot. You're gonna kill me.
KARL: ( into phone ) Yes ma'am. I need the police over here at the Wheatley house. ( pause ) I've killed somebody with a mower ( pause ) Yes ma'am, I'm right sure of it. I hit him two good whacks. That second time just plumb near cut his head in two. ( pause ) Hits a little old yeller house right on the corner of Marigold Street and some other street. They's a red pickup truck out front says DOYLE HARGRAVES CONSTRUCTION on it. I'll be a settin' here waitin' on ye. Beside sendin' the police, Doyle said you might want to send a ambulance or a hearse. Thank ye.
CHARLES: . on the third day I washed her. She wasn't very clean. I got all the right spots. She was the first one I ever kept for any length of time, you see I get bored easily, I have a short attention span. I can't say she enjoyed her stay, although the washcloth in her mouth held in place by good duct tape kept any complaints to a minimum. I don't really like people who talk a lot. I like to do the talking. I guess that's why I'm so fond of you. You're so easygoing, although I do sense a little tension in you sometimes. By the way, how was it out there? Did you have any fun? Make any new acquaintances? Tell me what it was like.
KARL: They was a boy. We made friends.
CHARLES: I bet you did. I was never bent that way. I'm bent the other way. So, you liked it out there in the It's too big.
KARL: It's too big.
CHARLES: Well, it's not too big in here, is I feel very generous today. I feel like listening. I'm sure you have plenty to tell me. And please bore me with the details. Come on Karl, who did you kill? Was it the boy?
KARL: Don't say nothin' about that boy.
KARL: Fact the bidness, don't you say another word to me. I ain't listenin' to you no more.
THE END: Writers : Billy Bob Thornton
