SMOKIN' ACES: Written by Joe Carnahan
TITLE CARD: A narration accompanies this passage: "The events depicted herein were believed have taken place in Lake Tahoe, Nevada. All manner of record as they might pertain to these events have been seized by the Department of Justice"
MESSNER: ( keying mic ) Zoom and pan please. Stay tight.
SERNA: So what I heard downstairs there is that they got a guy, some Swede, real badass, supposedly a "specialist" and they're bringing him over. Now he ain't coming cheap so, I'm thinkin' we jump, do this in the next day or so, get to Israel before the Swede can, we got chits, y'see? We're in a power position. Grab him, ransom him back, pick up that nut, we're that much closer to having our own thing.
PADICHE: No question, no, you're right. We gotta do what's good for us now.
SERNA: Yeah, I can front this.
SERNA: That's the punchline, y'ready?
PADICHE: SERNA ( V.O. )
DUPREE: .And young Buddy learns everything about cards from this Mandrake motherfucker his mom is working for.
DUPREE: Point is, he passed on all this slight of hand shit onto Aces and the kid is sick with it.By the age of twelve Buddy Israel is positively prodigal with a deck of cards. By sixteen, he's headlining the MGM's main room.
DUPREE: This punk is pulling down ten bills a night and more showgirl geech than you can shake a stick at. Four years of sold-out shows, he becomes the unofficial mob mascot
DUPREE: In reality, he doesn't know the ball from the bounce.He's not a crook, so he starts fucking up fast and picking up speed, putting a floodlight on the whole Carlotta organization. Cops get curious, start camping out, compiling names and faces and pretty soon Israel's bullshit has brought the heat to bear on none other than Primo Sparraza
LOCKE: Sparazza is rumored to have performed in excess of one-hundred and thirty contract murders, including one of the bureau's most celebrated agents. Freeman Heller. You heard of "The Turnpike Murders" that was Sparazza.
MESSNER: I thought Heller was a double op?
LOCKE: A dedicated viciousness and a slavish devotion to mob doctrine had Sparazza's star on the rise. So the mob relocated him to Nevada and he became the unofficial head of the Las Vegas LCN.
MESSNER: So he's personally issued the contract on Israel?
LOCKE: Sparazza was the one who introduced Israel to the life, gave him his first big break, brought him through the ranks.
CARRUTHERS: Made him a friend of the family.
MONTAGE: Stakeout teams snap photos- plant bugs- wire hidden cameras.
MESSNER: So the wiretaps we conducted on Serna and Padiche, the mention of Israel's Your intel corroborates what we already know. Sparazza's health is in rapid decline and before his date with destiny, it seems he wants one last thing.The heart of his sworn enemy. A recently opened, cash rich escrow account has been traced back to Sparazza. This and the mention of this mysterious Swede makes the million dollar contract on Israel very real.
LOCKE: Your intel corroborates what we already know. Sparazza's health is in rapid decline and before his date with destiny, it seems he wants one last thing.The heart of his sworn enemy. A recently opened, cash rich escrow account has been traced back to Sparazza. This and the mention of this mysterious Swede makes the million dollar contract on Israel very real.
WYMAN: How 'bout six-figures for this fool? How 'bout that love?
SYKES: Naw baby, they heard about that Triad hit, the work ya'll put in and they recognize the skills. And this ain't no tryout, tap-dance "show us your shit" thing neither if ya'll want this then I'mma go git it for 'ya.
WYMAN: Naw baby, they heard about that Triad hit, the work ya'll put in and they recognize the skills. And this ain't no tryout, tap-dance "show us your shit" thing neither if ya'll want this then I'mma go git it for 'ya.
WATTERS: So me and Sis here, 'cuz we got a rep on a rise, we chipped some nails on some niggas, they want us to drop this mafiaoso so and so, magician, whatever-the fuck he is.
WYMAN: S'way it works girl. Ya'll done dirt, ya'll peeled some serious caps. Word travels.
SYKES: And so I get this straight, we gotta go in, bust on this punk and remove the heart? Is that for real?
WYMAN: No, no, no, y'gotta go in and get him, pull'm out of wherever he at, forget all that other shit, that's just f'flavor. I'm still getting lil' bits'a this-n-that from this cat Padiche, the man contacting me.Right now, what we got Is a number and a name.Buddy What else did Padiche say?
SYKES: ( to Loretta ) What else did Padiche say?
WYMAN: He said that the shit could get hot, could get heavy.I said good. 'Cuz I got two of the hottest, heaviest bitches alive.
LOCKE: Like Pasquale Acosta, blood money mercenary. His countrymen have dubbed him the more dubious "El Estrago" The Plague.
MESSNER: You think it's possible he could be involved in the Israel hit?
LOCKE: Possibly. Acosta is pure mercenary. And a million dollar hit fee will draw some huge flies. But forget about Sparazza's money for a moment and remember, there's no shortage of those who want Israel killed and no shortage of cash to do just that.
DUPREE: ( off dull stares from Then you've both been living under the same rock, 'cuz these cocksuckers are infamous. Three brothers, same skank mom, different deadbeat dads, used for that suicide-kamikaze style shit. You heard about that huge shoot- out in Cleveland?
DEEKS: Is that the club that got wiped out a couple months back?
ELMORE: What happened?
DUPREE: The Teamsters had a reform measure going to ballot that didn't sit too well with the local syndicate. Night of the polling, big black-tie to-do downtown and the Tremor Brothers crash the party. Literally.
DUPREE: They're speed freaks, neo-nazi's. Sworn to the swastika, supposedly read and recite "Mein Kampf" like Mother Goose.And these motherfuckers can go megaton at the drop of a hat.
WYMAN: "Soot, Lazlo Soot." Lotta folks want this white boy clapped. Soot could be workin' for one 'em.
ELMORE: I think it's idiotic to continue this conversation. We're ex-cops which means we weren't great cops or even good ones.
DEEKS: Paying bills with bullshit casino jobs, sitting watch on slot machines.
ELMORE: Which was a great gig until we we walked in here and started drinking.
DUPREE: The bond on Israel expires in eighteen hours, after that, it's a jump ball. Our window is now.
DEEKS: Who posted his bail?
DUPREE: His law firm, same one that hired me. Israel walked out after he made bail and nobody's seen him since.
ELMORE: Jack, if the rumors hold and Israel is really the great white whale of snitches, then the mob is looking to put all kinds of bullets into his ass and pour some serious psychotics into the mix to do just that. So what real incentive is there to track him on something as small-time as a skip trace, when it's putting you and yours in the path of severe pain and suffering and an almost certain prelude to doom.
DUPREE: So I guess you're not going.
ELMORE: Shit, if you're on a crazy jag, why stop there, why not take Fort Knox with a fucking slingshot or go into Hell after Hitler.I like your chances a lot more.
DUPREE: I know his location, we've got the drop of a maybe half a day before that location gets grape-vined and the rest of the world gets hipped.
ELMORE: That's already happened hoss. It's naive to think otherwise.
DEEKS: Where is he?
WATTERS: Three hours t'the east. S'day trip. Pretty this time a'year too.
SYKES: We gotta lay something out, strategy- wise. Somethin' tight. Y'go in there ad-libbing, it's y'ass.
WATTERS: What are we talkin' on the split.
WYMAN: Forty-five apiece for you two, ten percent finders fee for me.
SYKES: What's the time frame?
WYMAN: Right mafuck'n now girl. Fast as we can get you there. We wait any longer, someone goin' dead this fool.
LOCKE: We lose our case. Twenty-four hours from now, he's scheduled to meet with federal prosecutors. His agent, a man by the name of Morris Mecklen, has guaranteed us that he'll enter into protective custody once his deal is approved.
CARRUTHERS: Right there? In the high-roller suite?
MESSNER: It's the last place they'd look.
LOCKE: Israel's legal representation, the firm of Culpepper, Brody and Reed, which is currently the subject of a joint SEC and Treasury Department probe, were left holding the bag after he skipped bail. Over three- quarters of a million dollars on a bond that's set to expire in less than a day. Rupert Reed, one of the firm's partners, has learned of Israel's whereabouts and dispatched a local bondsman by the name of Jack Dupree to pick him up and return him to Las Vegas.that can't happen. We have a Gulf Stream standing by at Reagan International to transport you two to Lake Tahoe. It's very simple gentlemen. Valacchi, Fratiano, Gravano no former witness against the mob has been as crucial or has brought more to bear on the potential dissolution of The La Cosa Nostra, than Buddy Israel.
MONTAGE: Over this entire sequence WE HEAR Agent Locke speaking:
MAN: .he's here now.
ISRAEL: D'you talk to'm?
HUGO: ( fetching Mylanta I got his machine.
ISRAEL: What'd you say?
HUGO: ( gulping Mylanta ) I said I got his machine.
ISRAEL: No, what did you say on the machine?
HUGO: I left him a message.
ISRAEL: I know you left him a message. What did you say!
HUGO: Then why are you still looking at me like I'm asking for the square root of something! What did you say!?
ISRAEL: Then why are you still looking at me like I'm asking for the square root of something! What did you say!?
HUGO: I said that we were returning his call and you were real concerned, because he sounded real concerned.
ISRAEL: Look at that, we didn't have to fill up the whole blackboard after all. Now, do you know anything about that?
HUGO: About what?
ISRAEL: Look at the collar on that coat.
HUGO: I dunno.Cinnamon roll?
ISRAEL: Cinnamon roll? No, good guess though. No, Hugo that looks like jizz. And I'm no forensic expert mind you, but that looks like some fuckhead shot their load on a twelve-thousand dollar calf's skin jacket. The twist? It's My twelve thousand dollar, calf's skin jacket. So y'got semen, human ejaculate
HUGO: I could have it sent out.
ISRAEL: .to what? Incinerate? 'Cuz I'm almost dead certain there's not a fucking laundry detergent or dry cleaning process known to man that can ever return that jacket to its former glory! Some shit, suffice it to say, just don't wash out. Now, the money question.To whom does that stain belong?
HUGO: Do you want me to say I did it?
ISRAEL: I was kinda hoping, yeah.
HUGO: Do you want me to say I'm sorry?
ISRAEL: Only if you really, truly mean it.
HUGO: .I'm sorry.
ISRAEL: Are you a fucking colossal idiot?
HUGO: I am. Yeah.
ISRAEL: Without peer?
HUGO: I uh, yeah, I guess, yeah.
ISRAEL: ( showing him the card ) No. Be sure. Be resolute. You stand alone on that summit.
CARRUTHERS: Yes Sir. Go ahead. We're three miles from The Nomad now. We'll be awaiting word.
MESSNER: Anything on the Swede?
CARRUTHERS: Only the mention made in that phone call. There's no Swedish hitman of any renown, much less one with a million dollar day rate.
MESSNER: Maybe he's that good. Never been caught, no criminal record.
CARRUTHERS: Messner, sets the gear on the floorboard, stretches. He turns over photographs of Victor Padiche and Sidney Serna. ( the same ones that were tacked to the corkboard of the surveillance van in the opening )
CARRUTHERS: And a very bad gamble.
MESSNER: ( re; the passing neon ) Well. This is as good a place for it as any I guess.
PADICHE: Girls, wonderful, here, sit.
WATTERS: No, we're cool.
PADICHE: ( to Waitress ) I'm fine sweetheart, thanks. ( beat, back to girls ) Okay, so.welcome to the south shore! ( big smile, then ) So, just jumpin' right in, just in terms of this thing, our thing. I spoke to Lorenzo this morning, he says y'got somethin' more or less put together, plan'a attack and me and my associate Mr. Serna, who I can put on the phone hear, we'd love t'hear it.
WATTERS: Awkward beat, Padiche, head cocked, did I hear that right.?
PADICHE: ( leaning closer )
SYKES: ( leaning closer )
PADICHE: ( leaning closer )
WATTERS: The old man blanches, doesn't quite understand the
PADICHE: Another beat. The girls let him dangle. Watters, lewd sneer, looks almost lustfully at Sykes as she says the following;
WATTERS: Israel likes pussy.
PADICHE: .Oh.uh-huh, yeah
SYKES: And we like that he likes.
PADICHE: Padiche, big nod going from one girl to the other, he-get's- He extends his hand. WE TRACK IT ACROSS IN C.U. as it meets with a male hand.
SYKES: Padiche, big nod going from one girl to the other, he-get's- He extends his hand. WE TRACK IT ACROSS IN C.U. as it meets with a male hand.
PADICHE: He extends his hand. WE TRACK IT ACROSS IN C.U. as it meets with a male hand.
REED: Yeah, Jack, alright.hey Nice t'meet you. Rip Reed.
DEEKS: Okay, good, good, c'mon, c'min.
REED: Okay, good, good, c'mon, c'min.
DUPREE: He's.fuckin'.he's comin'.
REED: ( extending hand ) Hey, hey how r'ya, Rip Reed.
ELMORE: Hollis. Elmore.
REED: ( to Deeks ) So Jack tells me you're both ex-cops?
DEEKS: Yeah, that's right.
DUPREE: They worked as swingmen for the Vegas Vice squad What? Five, six years?
REED: Man the stories you guys must tell. I grew up soft myself, private schools, little blazers, you "Talked it out" nobody threw punches, t'this day, never been hit with a fist, Imagine that, huh?
DUPREE: Rip, my right hand to God, we're gonna go in and recover this asshole and everybody's gonna leave the theater grinning. Trust me.
REED: That confidence translates bro, seriously, it does! Out-STANDING!
SIR IVY: Calm down.
ISRAEL: Don't tell me to "calm down" Ivy! I hate that!
SIR IVY: Look at the attention we're getting. It's all bad.
HUGO: Hey It's him, it's Gill.
SIR IVY: ( gesturing to hookers ) .We got these tricks going in and out, we're partying like the shit might go stale, what did you think was gonna happen?
ISRAEL: Fifty grand gouge. South shore hayseeds, this is why I never play Tahoe, or redneck Reno.
SIR IVY: We're hot, and they're losing a whole floor's worth of business saying it's "under construction."
ISRAEL: Alright, bag it, I'm not shelling out that kinda bread for this shithole, this is a junior suite in Vegas. Call Mecklen right now, he should have his cell on, I need an Get the Russian up here, have him clean this place, floor to ceiling and get us packed . .And send out for some new skeeze, the sun's up, these ones are starting to stink.
SIR IVY: Some of the girls start at the sound of Ivy's big Barry White baritone. They rise, groggy, burping up last night's debauchery. Mascara-smeared, hangover-hindered the girls rise as BERNARD "BEANIE" ALFONSE, protector #2, pops in; A sumo-sized brother with a diamond-studded smile.
BEANIE!: Some of the girls start at the sound of Ivy's big Barry White baritone. They rise, groggy, burping up last night's debauchery. Mascara-smeared, hangover-hindered the girls rise as BERNARD "BEANIE" ALFONSE, protector #2, pops in; A sumo-sized brother with a diamond-studded smile.
BEANIE: ( addressing the girls ) Alright ya'll, that's the call, we had our fun, pack it in, pro-ceed to the front. Les' go, les' go
ISRAEL: Are you on a land line?
DR. GILL: Yeah, why.
ISRAEL: Just checking.what's up? What's wrong with your voice?
DR. GILL: I've got concerns.
ISRAEL: .About what?
DR. GILL: About cocaine.and the amount you're I'm not doing cocaine.
ISRAEL: I'm not doing cocaine.
DR. GILL: Buddy, I'm not an ethics professor, I'm a physician, be honest, or be dead within a day.s'your choice.
ISRAEL: That's not possible. I told you.
DR. GILL: There are certain meds, certain intravenous measures that can counteract some of the damage you've done, but I'd have to administer them myself.
ISRAEL: Won't work, we're just gonna have to chance it man. I'm sorry.
DR. GILL: No. Sorry comes later, when you're in a partial coma with ambulatory paralysis. Sorry comes when we have to decide which of your limbs have to be amputated because severely constricted blood flow has brought about a gangrenous infection, sorry
ISRAEL: Fine, fuck, I got it.Lake Tahoe, Nevada. I'll have Hugo book your flight, you can be here in a couple hours. He'll meet you at the airport.
DR. GILL: .He's in Lake Tahoe.
ISRAEL: Be cool, be cool, be cool.c'mon.
BEANIE: Awwww, motherfuck me! C'mon woman! Hold your shit! This is silk!
ISRAEL: ( to himself, quiet ) .How the mighty have fallen.
CARRUTHERS: Spotter on the lake confirmed Israel. Penthouse level. There was apparently a fisticuffs with some prostitutes. He wasn't involved. He's also had his people phone a local madame for another group of girls.
MESSNER: No rest for the wicked. Why were we never shown these files? We're sitting on Sparazza for what? Six months now and we're just seeing Did you know that he's has had thirty- six major medical procedures performed on him since 1953? Elective plastic surgery, every single
CARRUTHERS: Welcome to the new Bureau. Nobody shares information anymore, it's become synonymous with job security.
MESSNER: Based on what we had, I thought Sparazza was a mid-level player at best and it turns out he's this mob relic, running the show out west.
CARRUTHERS: He's stayed below the radar. You don't kill a hundred and thirty people without knowing how to tip-toe.
MESSNER: But the Bureau knew Sparazza killed Heller. Why not go after him, guns blazing' for that one?
CARRUTHERS: Heller was buried in agency lore, anytime an operative failed or was perceived to have failed, Hoover blackballed their memory. Look at Yeah, but the Untouchables took down Capone. Heller got shot and killed. The bad guys beat him. Worse, Sparazza
MESSNER: Yeah, but the Untouchables took down Capone. Heller got shot and killed. The bad guys beat him. Worse, Sparazza
CARRUTHERS: It's almost five a.m. in D.C. now. Locke said the lawyers from Justice had been in there since three o'clock yesterday afternoon. Israel's manager is acting as his attorney and that's what's holding things up.
MESSNER: So he has no idea what's about to No. And I want to be in that room a half second after Mecklen calls to say the deal's done. We've got a sheriff's task force on stand-by.
CARRUTHERS: No. And I want to be in that room a half second after Mecklen calls to say the deal's done. We've got a sheriff's task force on stand-by.
MESSNER: What about the hotel staff obstructing us. Israel's obviously paid off the Tampering with a witness extraction of this magnitude makes everyone indictable at the federal level. Trust me, we won't any problems with the hotel staff. You show 'em your ID with the letters "F.B.I." in all caps and it's instant compliance. I've seen in happen a hundred times.
CARRUTHERS: Tampering with a witness extraction of this magnitude makes everyone indictable at the federal level. Trust me, we won't any problems with the hotel staff. You show 'em your ID with the letters "F.B.I." in all caps and it's instant compliance. I've seen in happen a hundred times.
ACOSTA: We're conducting a series of impromptu inspections for the Nevada Gaming
DUPREE: Same place that rents the guard's uniforms. There's a shift change at 9am. Graveyard goes home and we can blend in with the day shift coming What about access cards? Pass keys?
DEEKS: What about access cards? Pass keys?
DUPREE: We'll have to get our hands on them. There's two separate units; Casino Floor/Count Room Security and General Hotel Security Does he want to hear this or what?
DEEKS: Elmore steps out, moving slowly to the rear of the car.
DUPREE: Nobody put a gun to your head.
ELMORE: Yeah, we've been through that.
DUPREE: Then quit acting like somebody shit in your cereal bowl. Reed just gave us fifty grand.
ELMORE: Jack, what am I doing? I'm standing here, aren't I? Shouldn't that be enough? That I made the trip?
DUPREE: Your attitude sucks.
ELMORE: I been accused of worse. What do we got.?
DUPREE: Two security levels, the one we're going in under the guise of, hotel security, has restricted access. They're mostly there to monitor the lobby, handle disturbances on the different floors and toss out drunks. There's a thirty-five member employee rotation going from graveyard to day shift. If we split up, we can blend in and enter unnoticed. Once we're inside the hotel, we'll regroup.
ELMORE: Then what
JEEVES TREMOR: ( still pissing ) Luvin' that, rat-tat-tat-tat, clean as a nun's snatch on Kristal Nacht!
LESTER TREMOR: ( stops singing ) Shut up fuckass, them spirits ain't vacated yet, s'keep quiet.
JEEVES TREMOR: Them spirts can kiss my Chinese ass.
LESTER TREMOR: .YOU AIN'T NO CHINESE!
DARWIN TREMOR: Shoot, I appreciate that man.
DUPREE: If I needed your I.D. and your car and me and my brothers were wanted by the law, I woulda killed you to get 'em too.
DARWIN TREMOR: You woulda?
DUPREE: Oh hell yeah. We's just in the wrong place at the wrong time. So don't feel so bad dude.
DARWIN TREMOR: Damn.alright then.
DUPREE: I don't mind now anyway.
DARWIN TREMOR: I'm glad I'm here. I love it. I'm gonna get laid by some fine ass angels and then go hang out with Jesus and
DUPREE: I'm glad I'm here. I love it. I'm gonna get laid by some fine ass angels and then go hang out with Jesus and
DARWIN TREMOR: Man, that's great.
DUPREE: I got it made in the shade Amigo. Hey, I'll see you up here some day, don't worry.
DARWIN TREMOR: You think so?
DUPREE: I know so.
DARWIN TREMOR: Damn Jack.you was after the same sacka shit as us.Small world.
DUPREE: Don't tell your asshole brothers you know about it, that money is for you old boy.
DARWIN TREMOR: I appreciate that pard.I wish I coulda been a better friend.
WATTERS: We sat down with Padiche, he tried to get some details which we wasn't gonna give up, but it's all good. We goin' check Sis in first, 'fore I check in across the street.
WOMAN: Will you be needing a room with two double beds?
SYKES: ( quickly ) No, we're not together.
WATTERS: C'mon baby, don't be shy.
SYKES: I'm gonna need a mini-bar key too.
SOOT: My name is Vitoli. How can I be of
HUGO: Answer your fucking pages! I've been calling for fifteen minutes, we need you up here to clean NOW!
ISRAEL: They're gonna give on this in the next ten seconds or the deal's off!
ISRAEL: Bullshit it is. I said, about as loud as I could say it, "no jail time for my guys."
MECKLEN: And they're not going give there pally. They're bricking us on that particular issue.
ISRAEL: and you're gonna feel altogether fucked, by me, if you don't handle this. I'm the one, does the face plant, this falls apart, not you.
ISRAEL: I don't have to do shit! Which includes cooperating any further with these motherfuckers until I get what I want!
MECKLEN: Buddy, it's bigger than that, they want 'em all, Ivy, Beanie
ISRAEL: this isn't a swap meet Morrey, they're getting Sparazza and the west coast syndicate, giftwrapped, now if that's not good enough
MECKLEN: Listen kid, let's not antagonize this any more. I got 'em backed down on the book and t.v. deals. They're agreeing to give you all the after tax profits, so you can come away with some chits and live comfortably. If we push this, they'll revoke your protective status, which nullifies any agreement you got with the government.Now that's mate and checkmate kiddo and once that happens, the shit'll start falling down around your ears, real fast.
ISRAEL: Alright.do it.
MESSNER: He's giving them up?
CARRUTHERS: All of 'em. His entire entourage. I think we should move.
MESSNER: Did the Justice lawyers sign off?
CARRUTHERS: That's happening in about ten minutes. Israel's at optimum risk of flight right now, so we can't wait.
MESSNER: What about the sheriff's task force?
CARRUTHERS: Have them mobilized. I'll phone security and have the elevators locked down and stairwells secured. We need to keep Israel sequestered in that penthouse.
ACOSTA: ( to Bill ) Can I speak to you privately?
SECURITY SUPERVISOR: Gary, let's get our personnel up in the catwalk over twelve, that stickman has been acting odd and I don't like the rolls that table has been getting.
EMPLOYEE: Got it.
ACOSTA: It's gotta be tough keeping an eye on everything.
SECURITY SUPERVISOR: And everybody, all the time. Yeah, it's a chore.
ACOSTA: So, Bill, if I understand this right, you currently have your penthouse floor under construction?
SECURITY SUPERVISOR: That's correct.
ACOSTA: ( points to monitors ) But with these down, doesn't that pose a major security concern if, as you say, you have to keep an eye on everything at all times?
SECURITY SUPERVISOR: Well, we were worried about dust and debris from the work being done ruining the cameras, so
ACOSTA: so you shut them off?
SECURITY SUPERVISOR: Yes, but no we have personnel stationed at both ends of that hall, twenty-four hours a day.
ACOSTA: What kind of personnel?
ACOSTA: You have a butler working that floor?
SECURITY SUPERVISOR: Uh well, yes, uh just in terms of the men up there now, my team, he's serving lunch and dinner and just doing general upkeep so
ACOSTA: So there are no guests staying on that floor?
SECURITY SUPERVISOR: No. None at present.
ACOSTA: C'mon Bill.you've got some Sultan up there, one of your whales, big- spender, likes a lot of space, you cook up this "construction" thing.?
SECURITY SUPERVISOR: No, no, no. We've been looking to renovate that area of our hotel for some time now. The security team is only present to preserve floor integrity, due to the roof access.
ACOSTA: Is your security team armed?
SECURITY SUPERVISOR: Of course. Yes.
ACOSTA: And who has access to that floor?
SECURITY SUPERVISOR: I'm sorry, but I'm going to need to see your identification again. We're covering some sensitive material here and I need to safeguard myself, I'm sure you can understand.
ACOSTA: Of course, but if you could just tell me who has access to that floor
SECURITY SUPERVISOR: I hold the sole pass key and personally relieve the shifts myself. Now if I could get your ID we can
VOICE: ( over phone ) Hello? This is Special Agent Donald Carruthers of the FBI, I need an
SECURITY SUPERVISOR: Acosta pockets his ID as he yanks the pass key off the Supervisor's neck. His natural accent returns.
ACOSTA: Yes it is and right now it's filling your lungs. In less than a minute, you'll asphyxiate and pass out. You shouldn't be feeling any pain now.
SECURITY SUPERVISOR: .Am I really dying.?
ACOSTA: ( out of respect ) ( pause ) We're all dying.
MESSNER: ( back into his phone ) Deputy, have you made any ID's?
CARRUTHERS: ( cups phone, to Messner ) Get a coroner's estimate too. ( back into his cell ) Miss, I've been transferred and I was disconnected. No one is answering and I need someone from security to pick up that line. It's urgent.
MESSNER: Dep Deputy, I'm going to put you on speaker, I have Agent Carruthers in the car with me. You need to hear this.
SHERIFF DEPUTY: nd have a pending ID on a Jack Dupree, appears to be a bondsman out of Las Vegas. He was just rolled and printed by our medical examiner.
CARRUTHERS: Was there anything recovered?
MESSNER: What kind of uniforms?
MESSNER: Alright, deputy, we'll be there as soon as possible, until we arrive, I need you to limit physical access and restrict movement to and from the crime scene. Clear?
CARRUTHERS: Maroon uniforms?
MESSNER: Yeah. Have you been able to get through to the Nomad's security?
CARRUTHERS: ( beat, decision ) I'm going over there. You take the car from there, get out to the lake.
MESSNER: You going up to the Penthouse alone?
CARRUTHERS: The slide releases
SYKES: 'Cuz we don't need to draw any more shit down on our heads. We hit whoever's between us and Israel. I don't want to dead the whole floor and I don't want to be killing women no matter how they make a living.
WATTERS: Wait, I'm getting some fucked up feedback off that earpiece
SYKES: WHIP PAN TRANSITION TO: INT. HORIZON HOTEL AND CASINO SAME The Hotel just across the street from the Nomad. Watters on a headset, talking to Sykes, looking out the window.
WATTERS: On a room service tray near Watters; scanners monitor calls and in-house transmissions within The Nomad.
SYKES: What are you hearin' right now?
WATTERS: Nuthin', we cool. There was somethin' about a fed being in the building.
SYKES: A Fed? Like FBI?
WATTERS: It's just a little casino inspection, don't trip, he's alone. Alright, let's set this spinnin'.
SYKES: When them tricks hit the lobby, holla at me and I'm gonna meet them on the way up, blend in. Once I get inside, I'mma put m'Nina to Israel's head and back out hot. Anybody's fucks with that program, y'break 'em off. They get gully
WATTERS: I'mma grip and rip girl. I got some handloads here ready to cut heads.
SYKES: Jus' remember, this is more rescuin' shit than rampagin' shit.What are you shootin'?
WATTERS: .Girl, y'know I had to bring big mamma through.
SYKES: You got the fifty up? Bitch y'tryin' t'take down a jumbo jet? Blown the moon out the sky? T'fuck you wanna get that grimy?
WATTERS: The try t'wild out on my boo and it's on and crackin'! I'm layin' niggas out.
SYKES: Damn, this kevlar ridin' up on me, I wish they made this more sheer.
WATTERS: Mmmm. I tell you, I snuggle up with big girl here and my pussy start
SYKES: I ain't tryin' to break a sweat for that sorry ass nigga.
WATTERS: He a dog babydoll. He a great dane. I tried to tell y'after ya'll first date. He hit that ass one time, his interest in a bitch start t'landslide.
SYKES: You know I burned all his shit. All that vinyl. Chalamar, Funkadelic, I burned his turntables too. They was like three-thousand brand new.
WATTERS: Fuck that nigga. Let him go woof on some other scrub. We got one another, s'all the love we're ever goin' need.
SYKES: Girl, lemme ask you somethin' and I want you t'tell me straight up, since I got my suspicions and y'know I ain't one t'talk circles.you gay?
WATTERS: Ain't nuthin' wrong wit' it.
SYKES: Ain't nuthin' wrong wit' it.
WATTERS: Damn! Why you trippin' like that?
SYKES: I don't know, I feel like you always pushin' up on me, gettin' close and I love you baby, in every way you can love a bitch, 'cept that one.
WATTERS: I ain't even goin' dignify that. You my road dog. We threw up sets. Plus you stank.
SYKES: ( laughing now ) Fuck you.
WATTERS: Alright girl, the ho train has arrived. Four of 'em.
SYKES: .I'm on my way out, I'm just gonna hang in the hallway until they start up in the elevators.
WATTERS: Just get in there and do your thing baby.mamma gots you.
MONTAGE: The players take their places. Over these images WE HEAR:
PADICHE: Well, uh damn, alright, so he's headed in, does that where does that leave us?
BLACK: FADE UP ON: CAMERA DOLLIES IN ON Primo Sparazza, bedridden, blinking at the nothingness around him.a life on its last legs.a dying man determined to outlive his last enemy.Buddy Israel.
LOCKE: .Yes? Yes sir.I'm looking at it now.what does this mean exactly? .Good God. ..Good God. No, the two of them attached, Agent's Carruthers and Messner. I'd like to notify them immedia
DR. GILL: I'm here, where's the car?
DR. GILL: Well I don't see him.
GILL: Should I take a taxi or what?
MUSTACHE: Here he is.
BEANIE: ( to Mustache ) Why you always gotta be announcin' this fool like he some mafuck'n muckamuck!? What, 'cuz he got an accent, y'goin' treat this cracker like he don't be scrubbin' toilet seats!? Nigga please! ( beat, to Vitoli/Soot ) Speakin' of scrubbin' where the fuck you been? I know Hugo been pagin' you like a mufucka
SOOT: my name is Vitoli, how can I be of I know your name man! What's wrong Why you standing there fool? You make your money watching the hall. Get y'eyes back where they belong!
BEANIE: ( annoyed ) I know your name man! What's wrong ( back to Mustache ) Why you standing there fool? You make your money watching the hall. Get y'eyes back where they belong!
ISRAEL: ( calling ) IVY! Why isn't Hugo at the airport!? It's a fifteen minute trip!
IVY: So what'd Mecklen have to say?
ISRAEL: They're getting close. It's down to a handful of deal points now.
IVY: But it's all good right?
SIR IVY: So we're all traveling together, getting sworn, giving our statements
ISRAEL: I dunno the way it's gonna play out, but yeah, it'll probably go something like that.
SIR IVY: You believe in loyalty, don'tcha? 'Specially the kind of loyalty where an otherwise sensible motherfucker puts his own best interests aside to selflessly serve another. 'Cuz outside a goddamn dog, that kinda loyalty, my kinda shit, don't get any more dedicated, or deep, or devout.
ISRAEL: .what are you tryin' to say?
CASINO EMPLOYEE: I don't it's just I can't reach him. He's not picking up the extensio
CARRUTHERS: I know that. Which floor are they
CASINO EMPLOYEE: ( with great relief ) Wait He there, that's one of our guys ther
CARRUTHERS: Excuse me, sir.
CARRUTHERS: Special Agent Donald Carruthers. We've got a situation developing here in your hotel.
CARRUTHERS: I need to get to your penthouse level immediately, I also need every other elevator with access to that floor evacuated and locked down.
CARRUTHERS: Let's hope not.
SYKES: I'm going down.
DARWIN TREMOR: Bet'chu are.
SYKES: .Faggot-ass redneck.
WATTERS: What'd you say?
SYKES: Not you. Some assholes on the elevator.are these bitches on a permanent smoke break or what? Why the fuck they call'm "working girls."
WATTERS: Alright, the ho train is exiting the station. They're coming to you.
ELMORE: ( sputtering ) Hel I ambula pleeeeee
MESSNER: No, no clarify. What is "an emergency requisition of surrounding personnel?" Within one-hundred mile radius, understood Sacramento, Reno, Carson City. So in less than an hour, we're going to have anywhere from forty to fifty odd field agents arriving, without the slightest inkling as to why they're here. Is that correct? Am I misinterpreting that or No, I'm not blaming any one person, this is Bureau directive. But Agent Carruthers is the SAC and he's out of cell range at the moment, so I can't contact him to Very well. I need to get Deputy Director Locke on the phone as soon as possible.
MESSNER: What are these?
MESSNER: Then we've got a third man missing.
MESSNER: What car?
MESSNER: ( suddenly panicked ) Where's it at now?
HUGO: Doc, I'm gonna tell 'em we're on our way up, make sure it's cool up there. Is there anything you need?
DR. GILL: ( into his phone, quiet ) I'm going up now, give me ten minutes, that should be enough time to prep.
HUGO: ( still on his phone ) C'mon, somebody answer.
BEANIE: ( looking back ) That's a silk blend B, six-hundred and change an s'got vomit and bile and stomach contents all over it I ain't gonna tell'ya how t'get the mafucka clean, jus' put it right.
SIR IVY: What did you say to Mecklen?
ISRAEL: That's probably him now.
SIR IVY: .See, this is one'a them rare moments when y'ass get a chance to be completely honest.and if I'm asking you what you said to Mecklen, assume the shit is rhetorical.so assume I already know.
ISRAEL: A set of skills, God-given gifts, I close my eyes.
SIR IVY: Oh you ain't done a damn thing can't be undone Playa. The dye ain't even close t'cast. Y'wanna make some shit real? No stage, no and lemme say this one time.
CARRUTHERS: ( re: wall phone ) Can't you use the line in here to contact your people.
LOCKE: Pasquale Acosta Mercenary "El Estrago" "The Plague"
CARRUTHERS: Can't maintenance do that?
CARRUTHERS: Shut the elevators down.
CARRUTHERS: How long have you worked here?
SYKES: Girl, you hear that!?
WATTERS: Are you anywhere near the penthouse?
SYKES: No, but that definitely sounds like shots and I don't where it's comin' It's your IFB, somebody else has got an earpiece, you're picking up their signal
WATTERS: It's your IFB, somebody else has got an earpiece, you're picking up their signal
SYKES: I thought we had secure frequency. Aww girl, tell me this mafucka ain't goin' off right now.
WATTERS: .Oh, fuck these fools.
SYKES: What's wrong?
WATTERS: Security's locking down the elevators.
WOMAN'S VOICE: Please remain calm.Elevator service has been temporarily suspended and will resume momentarily.
DARWIN TREMOR: Les' get at it then.
MARGIE: Okay sweetie, now I'm a registered nurse and this was my bath not a half hour ago, so it ain't as hot as it could be, but we're gonna get you all toasty warm in no time Warren, Warren go on an' get grandma her hot blanket and her heating bag, the one in there under the sink in my bathroom.
WARREN: Slower Nana. Talk slooooooeerrrrr.
MARGIE: Okay Shug.Grandma needs you to go
WARREN: My karate feet? My crazy Karate kick feet!!
MARGIE: You little angel-butt! Grandma'll rub those feet forever!
WARREN: ( barking out ) Bow to your opponent!
ELMORE: ( trying to speak ) Pl kid, st stop.
TELEVISION SCREEN: We slowly DOLLY BACK, revealing a different room.
REPORTER: was a resident of Las Vegas, Nevada
REED: ( to himself, dialing ) .holy shit, shit, shit.
TELEVISION SCREEN: We slowly DOLLY IN now.
REPORTER: We've also learned that Mr. Dupree was employed as a process server and bondsman for Draygo Bail Bonds and may have been in this area on a fugitive apprehension
PADICHE: .uh oh.
REPORTER: A rental vehicle, registered in Mr. Dupree's name, has been recovered in the parking lot of the nearby Nomad Hotel & Casino.
HUGO: Shit.answer the fucking phone.
SIR IVY: Y'ain't never had to wash another man's blood off, dig it out y'fingernails.Y'had us for that. Y'ain't ever made a real beef on y'own, shit as light in the ass as you are, I'll bet you ain't ever made anything more than a fuck'n fist your whole life. So if you think I'mma let your lil' punk-ass, with the dirt I've done for you, in the eleventh hour, sell me off like some fucking field nigger, hand me up to the Feds like y'last chip, then you done gone straight out-your-motherfucking MIND!
ISRAEL: ( nodding to phone ) That's Mecklen. The deal's closing. I can pick that phone up and I can work this out.
SIR IVY: All that slight a'hand you can do and you still ain't never learned to lie right
MOTHERFUCK! MOTHERFUCKER!: Ivy, doubled over he drags the .50 cal from its holster and lets fly FIRING. Big bore rounds rip right through the wall, punching dinner-plate sized holes in the plaster. Israel goes to the ground as Ivy, bleeding, blazes away
SECURITY TEAM: ( in unison )
MUSTACHE: ( to Soot ) Are you hit?
ISRAEL: IN HERE! Are you hurt sir!?
IN HERE!: Are you hurt sir!?
MUSTACHE: Are you hurt sir!?
ISRAEL: Ivy's trying to kill me!
SIR IVY: FUCK YOU! GET IN HERE GODDAMMIT!
FUCK YOU!: GET IN HERE GODDAMMIT!
ISRAEL: GET IN HERE GODDAMMIT!
MUSTACHE: ( advancing on Ivy )
ISRAEL: Ivy hears this, let's the gun slide from his hand, standing, eye swollen to a bleeding slit.
MUSTACHE: GET ON THE GROUND!
ISRAEL: Jesus Christ.
VITOLI: Eees Vitoli.
ISRAEL: ( to security ) Avert your eyes gents, y'didn't see ( beat, rolls neck ) Okay Vitoli, listen these last few minutes make you a material witness, do you understand what that means?
VITOLI: .How can I be of assistance.
ISRAEL: You do know what that means! Tremendous, that's the attitude. Alright, Vitoli, hang tight for half a tic, we've got a special sort of "clean-up" we gotta do here, alright?
MUSTACHE: Yeah, he's nodding.
ISRAEL: Good. Now Move.
SECURITY TEAM: Wait.one of 'em looks like it's on its way up.
MUSTACHE: What about the other four? Are they
SYKES: It ain't dead! Quit saying that
WATTERS: Girl, I just saw muzzle flashes comin' out that suite. S'probably where you heard that shootin' earlier, somebody jus' downed Israel. He dead, our play is dead.
SYKES: I'm not givin' it up jus' yet.
WATTERS: C'mon, I say we bounce now, kick it for a lil' bit, play some craps. .Maybe spend the night?
SYKES: ( just above whisper )
SYKES: .Shhhhhhit.girl, there's these two dudes, just sittin' here in this elevator, all shot up.
WATTERS: ( beat, looking around ) They musta been beefin' big time with one another, cuz this shit, got way past words, whatever it was.
SYKES: ( beat, looking around ) They musta been beefin' big time with one another, cuz this shit, got way past words, whatever it was.
WATTERS: .What are they doin' right now.?
SYKES: Right now?
MARGIE: So them fellas were your friends then? The ones that was shot and tossed into the lake? Were they police officers too?
MESSNER: ( to agent ) I want you to locate Agent Carruthers ( beat, to another The guests that aren't able to leave need to be confined to their suites. And under no circumstances are they to venture out, for any reason. Have the staff make calls to that effect.
FBI AGENT: ( nodding, then to kid ) Alright Ricky, I want you to explain to Agent Messner exactly what happened and do it slowly please.
CASINO EMPLOYEE: Yeah, ye I uh, there were, earlier, there was that guy Carrut
MESSNER: Agent Carruthers. Do you know where is he now?
CASINO EMPLOYEE: He uh he asked about I'm he wanted to know whic what floor security was on, then I saw him get on the elevator with the other agent.
MESSNER: ( quick, thrown ) Wait a minute, what other agent? ( beat, to others ) What other agent?
FBI AGENT: I have no idea. It wasn't anybody from our office.
CASINO EMPLOYEE: He said he was from San Francisco.
MESSNER: Did he give you his name?
CASINO EMPLOYEE: Yeah, uh it was Spanish-somethin' Garcia, or Diego, uh
MESSNER: ( to other agents ) run both those names through the D.C. database. Call San Francisco, see if they've got anybody in the field doing collateral inquiries for
CASINO EMPLOYEE: he was wearing one of our jackets.
MESSNER: CASINO EMPLOYEE
CASINO EMPLOYEE: The other agent. He said he was here to do an inspection and later, when he got on the elevator with the other guy, Carruthers, I saw him wearing one of our security jackets.
MESSNER: This man wearing the jacket identified himself as an Federal agent?
CASINO EMPLOYEE: Uh, yeah.
MESSNER: You're sure?
CASINO EMPLOYEE: Yeah, he had the badge and everything. It said "FBI" on it.
MESSNER: And when you saw him later, he was wearing one of your security jackets
CASINO EMPLOYEE: And that didn't seem odd to you?
MESSNER: And that didn't seem odd to you?
CASINO EMPLOYEE: I I mean, I thought they gave it to him so he cou
MESSNER: ( addressing others ) We may have a man posing as one of us. Get a tactical team assembled. We need to get to the penthouse level We'll have to power the elevators back up.
FBI AGENT: We'll have to power the elevators back up.
MESSNER: Do it.
ISRAEL: Fucking things falling asleep.
BODYGUARD #1: One of 'em on it's way up. This doesn't make any sense, what's wrong with the rest of 'em?
HUGO: ( hands up ) Whoa, hey hey hold-up, hold-up, I got the Doc, easy. ( beat, seeing Ivy ) What's going on?
MUSTACHE: Ivy tried to kill Mr. Israel and shot Mr. Alphonse in the process. He's dead.
HUGO: Beanie!? What? How did that happe
IVY: Buddy was goin' jam us Hugo. He was gonna fuck us up with the Feds.
SYKES: .Wait a minute.This one's a Fed.
WATTERS: Hold up, hold up, I'm getting shots over the scanners, tons of traffic jus' chill for a sec, lemme listen.
SYKES: You jus' lay still, we goin figure out what the fuck ya'll were up t
WATTERS: No, no, no no one of 'em ain't one of 'ems bullshit it's all over the air here, they got an impostor, some fool with a fake badge
MESSNER: STOP THE ELEVATOR!
SOOT: ( cryptically ) Three minutes.
INTERCUT: Buddy, they revoked the deal, they pulled it.
MECKLEN: Buddy, they revoked the deal, they pulled it.
ISRAEL: They what? What? No. No. Why?
MECKLEN: The Deputy Director, this prick Locke, he smashed the whole thing, we're done, they won't tell me why.
HUGO: Vitoli? What are you doing?
GILL: ( to Hugo ) It's okay, it's okay Hugo. ( beat, to Soot ) Mr. Soot, I'm Doctor Gill.
ISRAEL: Doc y wha what is this?
MESSNER: Two man cover formation, far end, the elevator is open, possible aggression inside, watch for fire
MESSNER'S VOICE: watch for fire.
SYKES: Shar.Fourteen, I'm pinched I need some heavy shit, fire-from- heaven.my count.
MONTAGE: .a kaleidoscope of scenarios about to be played out at the exact same second.shared fates.Shakespearean fraught.in this soundless realm the CAMERA TAKES US PAST THE FOLLOWING:
SYKES: Bring it.
MESSNER: THIS IS THE FBI! THROW YOUR WEAPON OUT! SHOW ME YOUR HANDS! Are these feds fake or for real girl!
SYKES: ( whispering into IFB ) Are these feds fake or for real girl!
WATTERS: ( yelling )
SYKES: Jus' keep doin' y'damage girl, keep these mafuckas off my as
MESSNER: LADY, SHOW ME YOUR HANDS RIGHT NOW! I NEED MY HANDS MOTHERFUCKER! I'M HIT! KILL ME OR LET ME BE!
SYKES: I NEED MY HANDS MOTHERFUCKER! I'M HIT! KILL ME OR LET ME BE!
MESSNER: How bad?
CARRUTHERS: Messner takes his partner under the arms, lugging him into the open hallway, stripping off his shirt. Carruthers severed hand nearly falls away from the rest of his arm.
MESSNER: Messner takes his partner under the arms, lugging him into the open hallway, stripping off his shirt. Carruthers severed hand nearly falls away from the rest of his arm.
CARRUTHERS: Messner takes his partner under the arms, lugging him into the open hallway, stripping off his shirt. Carruthers severed hand nearly falls away from the rest of his arm.
MESSNER: ( re: Acosta, yelling
SYKES: ( into IFB ) Girl, I'm inside, I'm on my way up this elevator is going to the Penthouse can you hear me? Baby, can you hear me
WATTERS: Sit tight if you can hear me Girl! I can't do shit for you from here. I'm moving down for a sightline!
JEEVES TREMOR: Jeeves buries the sledge in a wall, takes up the chainsaw, rips the pullcord, resumes the charge
LESTERRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR!: Jeeves buries the sledge in a wall, takes up the chainsaw, rips the pullcord, resumes the charge
BAM!: Ivy's automatic discharges. The round splits the saw's gas tank, spritzing fuel, dousing Jeeves A beat before the tank suddenly arcs, exploding, lighting Jeeves up like a four-hundred pound bonfire, bouncing him off the walls; a human Hindenberg, fully engulfed. He flails, burns, howls, falls.molten fat melts off his body like lard butter.
WATTERS: Girl, where are you talk to me.how bad are you hit.
WATTERS POV: She sees the Feds and Cops in the Nomad window across the way. Smoke clears, her field of vision through the scope expands, sharpens.
MOTHERFUCKERS!!: She flicks to full-auto and opens fire right through the glass in front of her big gas-ejected shells pop from the breach like bowling pins the gathered throng across the way in the Nomad window seem to vaporize in a violent collage of heat, blood and building chunks Watters bucks big sobs, blasting away with the Barrett.
SYKES: Drop that hammer. And I drop this one. Know a killer motherfucker.know they voice. Know they feel.and know you 'bout to die by one.
ISRAEL: .forgive me.
AGENT #1: Let me see your hands!
SIR IVY: This woman's been shot, I need to get her medical attention immediately!
LOCKE: The Agent nods confirmation. Locke reaches into Soot's coat, finds his cellphone.hits redial.
AGENT #1: Agent Carruthers was killed sir, Agent Messner is unaccounted for.
LOCKE: Account for him.
SIR IVY: What's your name baby girl.
SYKES: Ivy, big smile.
SIR IVY: Georgia on my mind wit'yo fine ass. You know you saved this black man.
SYKES: You know I did baby. And a deep, dark one at that. Now if you ain't a dog, which you don't look like
SIR IVY: never in a million girl
SYKES: good, then all you got to be is No doubt. That's my moms there, taught me them skills.
SIR IVY: No doubt. That's my moms there, taught me them skills.
SYKES: You love her?
SIR IVY: My mamma? C'mon shorty, y'gotta ask? You hurtin' pretty bad?
SYKES: ( nodding ) Got hit twice.
SIR IVY: It's going around ain't it? Mafuckas catching bullets like the common cold up in this bitch. I think I accidentally shot and killed my boy today.
SYKES: Well, if it's any comfort, I's goin' in to there to act a fool baby. Straight rockin' heat and slayin' For real?
SIR IVY: For real?
SYKES: Mmm-hmm.and your boy very well mighta been one of 'em.
SIR IVY: Like a mafucka.
SYKES: Like a mafucka.
SIR IVY: That takes some of the sting out.
SYKES: I probably woulda busted on you too .and what a shame that woulda been.
SIR IVY: I feel like I know you girl. I feel like I've known you forever. You gonna lemme see your scars?
SYKES: You do the right thing. Sit with me while I heal, let it develop slow.
SIR IVY: What were you doin' here anyway?
SYKES: 'Spose to kill this fool named Buddy
MESSNER: F.B.I. YOU'RE UNDER ARREST! PUT HER DOWN, GET UP AGAINST THAT WALL!
SYKES: Don't play out this string, 'cuz it's real short I didn't do your man downstairs. I found him that way. Now whether or not you believe that ain't the least bit important. We either goin' work this out and live, or stay doin' the shit we been doin' and die. Now I got no beef with you, or wit ya'll bureau.so you better off jus' movin' on & lettin' us be.
DR. GILL: Dr. Ingstrom, he's had a mild cardiac episode and recurring arrhythmia, I've given him 60cc's of Nobuneatol.
MESSNER: .Deputy Director Locke?
LOCKE: Here. Sit. Please.
MESSNER: ( pointing to Swede ) This is him? The hitman hired to kill Israel? He's a doctor?
LOCKE: Difficult to explain everything now. And much larger issues loom. I'm sorry about Carruthers.Damndest thing to have to die for.
MESSNER: ( to Locke, forceful ) What the hell What is this!? People died. Agent Carruthers is dead!
LOCKE: We have to transport Mr. Israel to Las Vegas, time is of the essence. The gulfstream is standing by on the jetway at Tahoe International. I'm sorry, I'm restricted from disclosing anymore information. Return to Washington. You'll be debriefed in the coming days.
WATTERS: ( whispering ) .I loved you baby.
BOOM!: EXT. PARKING STRUCTURE NOMAD HOTEL SAME A gunshot in the distance followed by shrieks Darwin Tremor snaps his head around at the sound, moving past platoons of Cops and Feds now rushing that way. His I.D. is out, affording him easy egress. He hops the stairs up, top level, Barracuda parked at the rear of the lot. As he approaches.
ELMORE: ( nodding to Cuda ) That your car?
DARWIN TREMOR: No, I'm confiscating it.
ELMORE: You're F.B.I.?
DARWIN TREMOR: That's right.and I'd advise y'ta lower your weapon sir.
ELMORE: You investigating those murders out at the lake?
DARWIN TREMOR: ( blanching a bit ) Three men were ambushed and shot, two died and had their bodies tossed into the lake, the other has severe hypothermia, possible dementia and will probably be a multiple amputee by week's end.if he even lives that long.
ELMORE: Three men were ambushed and shot, two died and had their bodies tossed into the lake, the other has severe hypothermia, possible dementia and will probably be a multiple amputee by week's end.if he even lives that long.
DARWIN TREMOR: No, I ain't even heard abou
ELMORE: ( even more menace ) You "ain't" ( beat, teeth clenched ) You have any idea how close to death I've been? You understand that I'm dying now? That I've survived bullets and frostbite and raging fever ( holding up hand ) missing fingers and every fucking imaginable horror in between?
DARWIN TREMOR: Yeah, shit hell, you're right. I'm You shot me and murdered my friends.
ELMORE: You shot me and murdered my friends.
DARWIN TREMOR: I did. We yeah, I know.
ELMORE: And threw us into the lake.
DARWIN TREMOR: Pretty much, yep.
ELMORE: And this is your car, isn't it?
DARWIN TREMOR: But there were more of you?
ELMORE: But there were more of you?
DARWIN TREMOR: Yeah, m'brothers.They didn't make Two of 'em?
ELMORE: Two of 'em?
DARWIN TREMOR: ( nods, tears flow ) Thass' right. ( beat, wiping eyes ) I got other brother's though, so it ain't so bad.
ELMORE: You were here huntin' a man named Israel, weren't you? Your name is
DARWIN TREMOR: I was. It is.That who you was here for? Israel?
ELMORE: Yes we did. Now, give me your car keys. And get the fuck out of here.
DARWIN TREMOR: S'fair.lemme just grab somethin'.
ELMORE: .Oh, fuck that.
MESSNER: Your friends were taken to Carson City Memorial, they're going to be autopsied and shipped back for burial.
ELMORE: I'll take care of it.
MESSNER: Who owned this car?
ELMORE: The ones that killed 'em.
MESSNER: Where are they now?
ELMORE: I just want to go home man.I just want to go home and forget this fucking place even exists.
MESSNER: Where's that? Home.
ELMORE: Las Vegas.
MESSNER: You're injured.Let me drive.
ORDERLY: Are you with the group on the third
LOCKE: .for a press release. Officially, he took his own life, suicide by hanging, something of that sort. Basic bullet points despondent over the turn his career had taken, troubles with the law, history of substance abuse and so on
MESSNER: Where's Israel?
LOCKE: What are you doing here?
MESSNER: My debrief
LOCKE: ( indignant ) will be handled back in
MESSNER: no, we need to handle it now.
LOCKE: You were given instructions to get on that plane and return to Washington
MESSNER: You're going to tell me why no call was made to inform us that the Israel situation had been "altered." Why I and my friend and partner, whose body is going into a furnace tomorrow, were not sufficiently apprised of Bureau movement on this matter.
LOCKE: I can't discuss
MESSNER: You can and you will.
LOCKE: You're finished.
MESSNER: And you just figured that out? The Swede isn't a hitman, is he? He's a surgeon. Sparazza didn't want Israel's heart for a trophy, he wanted it for a transplant.why?
LOCKE: .They're father and son.
MESSNER: .A paternity suit, filed 1967.
LOCKE: Brought against Sparazza by Israel's mother Laverne who was nineteen at the time. They had a brief affair which Israel was the by-product of.
MESSNER: .Does he know?
LOCKE: .He does now.
MESSNER: So the wiretaps of Padiche and Serna
SERNA: some Swede, real badass, supposedly a "specialist"
LOCKE: Dr. Sven Ingstrom is head of cardiology at Stockholm University and the foremost heart specialist in all of Europe
MESSNER: So all of our intel was bogus to begin with.
LOCKE: Yes. The actual contract went to Lazlo Soot, the man that plunged to his death from the Penthouse yesterday. He was to neutralize Israel's entourage and prep for the removal of his heart.
MESSNER: .When did you know all this?
LOCKE: Information was arriving all day yesterday. When we finally figured out who Sparazza actually was, we
MESSNER: ( after a moment ) What do you mean "Who Sparazza actually was."
LOCKE: .Are you insane?
MESSNER: ( pulling hammer back ) What do you mean "who Sparazza actually was."
LOCKE: It wasn't elective. It was undertaken to save his life. And it wasn't cosmetic, it was reconstructive.Look at the date of the first procedure.
MESSNER: ( reading ) .Yeah, fifty-three.
LOCKE: The same year that Sparazza murdered Agent Freeman Heller.
MESSNER: ( as if to himself ) .holy shit.that's Heller. ( back to Locke ) Isn't it?
LOCKE: Primo Sparazza was Heller's alias. He went deep cover in 1940 and stayed under for over ten years, amassing materials against the mafia and other criminal syndicates. He may have ripped the organization wide open, pre-Appalachia, but his superiors were convinced that he had gone rogue, swapped allegiances.So they gave the order to terminate his cover.
CARRUTHERS: Heller was buried in agency lore-
LOCKE: The agents of that era are all dead and gone, history had defaulted to fable.until now. You can imagine the shock this sent through the corridors of power in D.C. Heller's op predates the second world war. That's over sixty years of intel. Do you know how valuable that could be? The man's a treasure trove.
MESSNER: .So you made another deal?
LOCKE: I wouldn't go that far.
MESSNER: But you did, and have.And now people are dead. Did Sparazza become more valuable than Israel.and did you make another
LOCKE: Israel's agreement with the government was tossed out. We're now attempting to rehabilitate him to the point where a transplant can be attempted.
MESSNER: ( with disgust ) You're trying to save Sparazza?
LOCKE: No.We're trying to save Heller.
MESSNER: .So you knew all this and yet y
LOCKE: ( cutting him off ) We needed cohesion to move forward. Not conjecture.
MESSNER: .while Carruthers and a dozen others lie dying, you debate semantics. The Bureau's betrayed us. The way they betrayed him.
LOCKE: I don't see it like that at all.
MESSNER: No, of course you don't.of course you don't. .I gave all my belief and the better part of my soul to this Bureau. .Look at the monsters you've made. I won't be one of them.
LOCKE: I'll overlook what you've done here today in light of what's taken place. You've been fully debriefed. Now I want you to return to D.C. immediately and make no further inquiry into this matter. I mean it. It's closed.
MESSNER: No.It's not.
THE END: Writers : Joe Carnahan
