ISHMAEL: Are you all right?
HATSUE: Go away, Ishmael.
ISHMAEL: Please don't be like th. Go away.
HOOKS: .four inch gash, skull crushed, and your thought was, what.?
MORAN: Well, Carl was six-four, went 235. He was a grizzly bear and an able
CARL: Chambers. Y'see the geese?
CARL: Picture'd be nice. In your pa's
ISHMAEL: Lucky I got the camera in my
CARL: Careful, Chambers. That was almost a joke.
HOOKS: And you weren't there, when the coroner examined the wound.
MORAN: Nossir. I'd gone to tell the wid. to tell Mrs. Heine.
MORAN: Hey there, men. Is your mother home a-tall?
MORAN: You go on and play, now.
SUSAN MARIE: What can I do for you, Sheriff, Carl's not home y.
MORAN: Too quick. He stops himself. And she sees that.
MORAN: It's why I'm here. I'm afraid I have some.very bad news to tell you, the.worst.kind of news.
MORAN: Carl died last night. In a fishing accident. In White Sand Bay. No, Carl's fine, h.
SUSAN MARIE: No, Carl's fine, h.
MORAN: We found him, Mrs. Heine. Tangled in his net.
SUSAN MARIE: I told him this could happen.
HOOKS: So, no.immediate suspicion, no.general talk of enmity between the two.
MORAN: These are fishermen, Alvin. They don't talk at all to each other and less to me. Specially gossip.
MORAN: Figure you'da heard by now.
GJOVAAG: You go fishing, it happens. You see Susan Marie?
MORAN: I did. Boy.
ISHMAEL: Three kids. What's she going to do? Well, what can she do? Jesus Christ.
ISHMAEL: Excuse me, Gjovaag.
GJOVAAG: I don't need to excuse nothin'. Fuck you anyhow, Chambers.
MARTY JOHANSSON: Sheriff's been askin' which boats followed Carl out last night. Only to see if somebody talked to him out th.
ISHMAEL: So who talked to him? Out there. So far, we figured the guys who went to Ship Channel Bank, was Jim Ferry, Hardwell, Moulton, Miyamoto. All right, look, if you see these Never saw you so hard-ass, Art. Ain't this just an accident?
MORAN: All right, look, if you see these Never saw you so hard-ass, Art. Ain't this just an accident?
GJOVAAG: Never saw you so hard-ass, Art. Ain't this just an accident?
MORAN: Course it is, but a man's dead, William. I got to write my report.
MORAN: I'm not gonna see some article about an investigation, am I? You want me to lie?
MORAN: No, I wanna be off the damn record, that's what I want.
MORAN: I mean, if there is a killer, why would you want him all alerted?
ISHMAEL: Let's say.someday cooperation from you on this thing. Do I get it?
MORAN: Well, the coffee cup was layin' right in the middle of the floor, like I said. And with a fella so neat as Carl, that did seem peculiar.
NELS: As peculiar as a struggle between a 235 pound man, and an assailant strong enough to subdue him.that leaves only a single overturned cup in its wake?
NELS: My gosh, Alvin, was I supposed to object every time you did that? That's quite enough horseplay, Nels, why don't you act your age?
NELS: If I did that Your Honor, I'd be dead. Any more homely loveable tricks, and you'll be worse than that. Proceed, gentlemen.
JUDGE: Any more homely loveable tricks, and you'll be worse than that. Proceed, gentlemen.
HOOKS: There's an objection, Your H.
JUDGE: And it's overruled, answer the question. If you can recall it.
MORAN: Maybe the assailant straightened the cabin. And forgot the cup.
NELS: Right. In the middle. Of the floor.
MORAN: Nels nods to himself, as if considering that. So that the jury will do the same.
NELS: I think you testified lights were on. Cabin, mast, net lights, picking lights.
MORAN: Yessir, there'd been real heavy fog.
NELS: And yet you started the engine right up. With all those lights drawing all night, the batteries had that much charge. Did that strike you odd?
MORAN: Didn't think about it at the time. So no, it didn't strike me odd.
NELS: Does it now?
MORAN: A little. Yes. You have to You have to wonder.
NELS: You have to wonder.
NELS: You found three batteries, you say. A D-6 and D-8 in the well. And a spare D-8 on the cabin floor. It is.
MORAN: It is.
NELS: Now I did some measuring down at the chandlery. A D-6 is one inch wider than a D-8. It would be too large for the deceased's well.
MORAN: He's done some on-the-spot refit- ting. You could see the side flange was banged away to make room for the D-6.
NELS: But he had a spare D-6, you said. Right there. Why not use that?
MORAN: It was dead. We had it tested. Maybe the D-6 was the spare and he had to use it. Maybe he carried a spare that was too large to fit. So he'd have to bang out the flange to squeeze it in?
NELS: Maybe he carried a spare that was too large to fit. So he'd have to bang out the flange to squeeze it in?
NELS: Sheriff, how many batteries and what size did you find on defendant's Two D-6's. That's the kind his well was fitted for.
MORAN: Two D-6's. That's the kind his well was fitted for.
NELS: No spare.
MORAN: So the defendant went out fishing for the night with no spare battery, I'm curious. The D-6 that was refitted into the deceased's well. Was it exactly the same brand and model as defendant's?
NELS: So the defendant went out fishing for the night with no spare battery, I'm curious. The D-6 that was refitted into the deceased's well. Was it exactly the same brand and model as defendant's?
MORAN: I'm curious. The D-6 that was refitted into the deceased's well. Was it exactly the same brand and model as defendant's?
NELS: I'm curious. The D-6 that was refitted into the deceased's well. Was it exactly the same brand and model as defendant's?
MORAN: I believe so.
NELS: Now you've testified that the deceased was a heavy man, and hard to bring out of the net.
NELS: Is it possible his head struck the transom, or the stern gunnel, or the net roller, as you were bringing him I don't think so.
MORAN: I don't think so.
NELS: You don't.
MORAN: He was heavy, but we were real careful. But I don't remember him hitting anything, anywhere.
NELS: You don't.
NELS: Operating this winch you'd rarely operated before, doing this awkward job of bringing in a drowned man of 235 pounds.is it possible. Possible that he struck his head after death. Possible. But not darn likely. No further questions.
MORAN: Possible. But not darn likely. No further questions.
HOOKS: .so when the sheriff returned, you showed him the injury to the deceased's head.
WHALEY: He said, 'Could it be somebody hit him?' And I said, 'You want to play Sherlock Holmes, here?'
HOOKS: Did you say more?
WHALEY: I said that if I was playing Sherlock Holmes.I'd maybe look for a. Japanese person. With a bloody gun- butt. A right-handed fella, to be And why. Is that?
HOOKS: And why. Is that?
WHALEY: Well, I was a doctor in the Jap theater, in the war. I saw those kendo wounds, many times. Looked exactly like this one.
HOOKS: Could you tell me what 'kendo' is?
WHALEY: Japanese stick-fighting. They're trained as kids, y'know. To kill with sticks.
ZENHICHI: Hips, stomach, tighten as stroke advances.
ZENHICHI: Elbow soft, or there is no follow- through. You cut your bokken off from the power of your body, unl.
ZENHICHI: Hips sink more. Less weight on the heels, so tha. Zenshin. Is constant awareness. Of dang.
ZENHICHI: Elbow soft. A little better.
ZENHICHI: You can be good with the bokken. If you begin to concentrate.
ZENHICHI: You must choose now, Kabuo. At eight years. If you want this. I want it.
ZENHICHI: Then speak quietly. So you may be
WHALEY: As I testified. It occurs when water, mucus and air are mixed by respiration. I believe I said that. But a drowned person can't breathe.
WHALEY: Of course not. The foam means that he went in breathing. identifies drowning as the cause of death.
WHALEY: identifies drowning as the cause of death.
NELS: Meaning that he wasn't murdered first, say on the deck of the boat, and then thrown overboard.
WHALEY: Your report says death by which means he went into the water alive and breathing. And the report is accurate.? Of course it's accurate, but.
NELS: Your report says death by which means he went into the water alive and breathing. And the report is accurate.? Of course it's accurate, but.
NELS: Of course, it is. Now as to the head injury. You say made by an object narrow and flat. That is your inference, correct? It's my job to infer, that's what coroners do. You get hit with a crowbar, or a ball-peen hammer, or fall off a motorcycle, the injuries look different, that's my area of
NELS: In your motorcycle example. Those injuries are produced by the head being propelled against an object. Rather than the reverse, yes?
WHALEY: Can you tell whether an object moved against the head, or the other way around? Or would both look the same.
NELS: Can you tell whether an object moved against the head, or the other way around? Or would both look the same.
WHALEY: The same.
NELS: So if his head struck something narrow and flat, the gunnel of a boat, a net roller, a fairlead, could that have.
WHALEY: If the head was moving fast enough, but I don't see how it could be.
NELS: Is it possible?
WHALEY: Sure, anything's poss.
NELS: Is it fair to say that you do not know for certain which it was.
WHALEY: I already said that, b.
NELS: certain whether the head injury was sustained before or after death?
WHALEY: For certain, no.
NELS: But you are by drowning.
WHALEY: For the third time, yes.
WHALEY: Can I say something, here?
NELS: Yes, you can tell me about the minor cut you found on the deceased's right hand. The report says 'recent origin'. How recent? As much as 24 hours before death?
WHALEY: Absolutely not. Probably one or two hours. Four at the most.
NELS: Are you absol.
WHALEY: Nels nods. Silence.
NELS: Thank you, Horace. No more
JUDGE: We'll take our luncheon recess. Reconvene at.2 o'clock sharp.
KABUO: How are the kids?
HATSUE: They need their father.
KABUO: Well. Just a few more days. Look, Art's gonna want me t. You look beautiful.
HATSUE: I look terrible. Don't sit so straight like Tojo's soldier. The jury will be afraid of you.
KABUO: Okay, I'll hide under the table from now on. That make you happy?
KABUO: I'm not going until you smile.
HATSUE: They'll hear everything. There must be something good on the radio! Wouldn't some music be nice?
HATSUE: Ishmael. See the yellow one? Can the music be louder, please? We can't hear so good in here!
KABUO: Have you ever done this?
HATSUE: Never. You're my only.
HATSUE: .so right.
MRS. SHIGEMURA: No. You must never look at a man directly. This is part of grace.
HATSUE: I don't think the boys on this island. Are impressed. By grace.
MRS. SHIGEMURA: Hakujin know nothing of life, Hatsue.
MRS. SHIGEMURA: This is why they fear death. Because life here is separate from Being.
MRS. SHIGEMURA: It is why they have no soul.
MRS. SHIGEMURA: Life embraces death, includes it. This truth brings tranquility. You must see yourself.
HATSUE: .as a leaf. On a great tree.
MRS. SHIGEMURA: The pin. Could be better placed.
HATSUE: He's still got a good grip. We need to dig more.
HATSUE: Easy. Slow is best.
ISHMAEL: Do you know what I mean, Hatsue? I've always liked you.
HATSUE: You followed me, huh?
ISHMAEL: Sorry. It sort of.happened, I just.I followed you. I'm sorry. I'm all wet.
HATSUE: I'm all wet.
ISHMAEL: I'm sorry I kissed you on the beach.
ISHMAEL: Let's just forget about it. Forget it happened.
HATSUE: Don't be sorry. I'm not sorry about it.
ISHMAEL: Me neither.
HATSUE: Do you think this is wrong?
ISHMAEL: Your friends would. Your dad would kill me with a machete.
HATSUE: We're Japanese, not Mexican, Ishmael. He'll slice you up with a ceremonial
HATSUE: My mom. Would be the problem.
ISHMAEL: Why? We're only talking.
HATSUE: I can't hear you.
ETTA: Him and his folks and two brothers and two sisters worked our land. Lived in a picker's cabin at first.
HOOKS: So the defendant knew the deceased, your son, even then.
ETTA: They fished t'gether. Went to school. Carl Junior treated him like a white person. Like any friend.
HOOKS: But the dispute began. With the father, yes?
ETTA: Don't sell, Carl. You'll regret it.
ETTA: Don't go wavin' new church clothes at me. We're not such paupers as sell to Japs, are we? For what, a pouch of fancy pipe tobacco?
ETTA: You wear the pants, doncha? Go ahead, sell our land to a Jap and see what comes of it.
HOOKS: But back in '34, Japanese-born could not own land. So.?
ETTA: Carl held it a lease. They make payments every June and December.
HOOKS: Why? If they could never take title.
ETTA: Their kids was born here. So when the oldest, that one there, was twenty.last payment gets made, and he could own it.
ETTA: But they missed their last two payments. So that was that.
ZENHICHI: We must leave everything. If you like, you can work our fields, sell berries, keep the money. Otherwise, they just rot.
ZENHICHI: Today, I have $120 toward next paym.
ZENHICHI: Please, you take. Then, I send more from where I'm going. If not enough, you still have seven acres strawber.
ETTA: Thought you was
ETTA: Didn't you come in here givin' them away? Now you want $130, after our labor and fertilizer. Is that what you come here hopin' on?
ETTA: You want more coffee?
ZENHICHI: No, thank you. Take money, please.
ETTA: Take that back. And do it now.
ETTA: Those Japs owe us. I don't want nothin' confusing that.
ETTA: I said now, boy. Supper's in forty minutes.
HOOKS: You said neither of the last two payments were made. But your husband told defendant's father that he could pay them.what, 'down the road'.
ETTA: Road ended October 1944, when my husband passed away.
ETTA: I sold all the land to our neighbor, Ole Jurgensen. Got a fair price, this time. And.
ETTA: Japs down in California. Which I didn't have to do. Specially since my boy was out in the Pacific, gettin' shot at by Japs at the time.
HOOKS: Now defendant's father had also died by that point. Where was the defendant? When you sent his family their equity.
ETTA: In the war. Europe, I believe. They could hardly send him to the Pacific, could they?
HOOKS: And when he came home. Did he write you about this? Or phone, Just showed up at my door, big as life and twice as mean. Wanted to talk to my son.
ETTA: Just showed up at my door, big as life and twice as mean. Wanted to talk to my son.
ETTA: He's over the ocean, fighting the Japs. They're just about licked. Just about.
ETTA: When Mr. Heine passed away, I couldn't farm the place myself, could I? You're gonna have to talk to Ole abou.
KABUO: I just did. He didn't know we were one payment away. You didn't tell him Mr. Heine promised my fath.
ETTA: I was s'posed to some illegal contract muddling things up? You folks didn't make your pay- ments. In America, bank comes in and repossesses your land. I didn't do anything wrong.
KABUO: Nothing illegal. Wrong is a different mat.
ETTA: Get out of here.
KABUO: You sold our land out from under us, Mrs. Heine. You took advantage of the fact that we were gone. You.
HOOKS: What do you mean by 'dirty looks'?
ETTA: Well. Every time I see him in town or somewhere, he's starin' at me with these narrow eyes. Givin' me his mean face.
HOOKS: When your son came back from the war, what did he say about all this?
ETTA: That he'd keep an eye on Miyamoto. Watch out for him.
HOOKS: Did he see some
NELS: Objection. Asking witness to speculate about deceased's state of mind.
HOOKS: All right. What did your son to that effect?
ETTA: He said he wished Kabuo would forget about his seven acres, and stop lookin' at us cross-eyed.
HOOKS: Your witness.
NELS: Just three questions. The Miyamoto family bought your seven acres for
ETTA: Tried to. Defaulted on their Second question. What did Ole Jurgensen pay you per acre?
NELS: Second question. What did Ole Jurgensen pay you per acre?
ETTA: A thousand.
NELS: So that makes what would have been $4500 into $7000, doesn't it? If you sent the equity back, you had a profit of $2500.
ETTA: Is that your third question?
NELS: It is.
ETTA: You done your math right.
NELS: You, too. No further questions.
HOOKS: Were those his He say Mrs. Heine robbed him. Mr. Heine never woulda let no such ting like that hap.
HOOKS: Robbed. He was angry.
OLE: Oh, yeh. He said someday he would get his land back.
HOOKS: Mr. Jurgensen. Did he offer to buy the seven acres from you?
OLE: Oh, yeh. But this is nine year ago, I had my healt, I wasn't wantin' to sell.
HOOKS: And then your stroke came this summer. And you put your property on the market, I believe you said September 7. Which, remember, is eight days before Carl Heine died. And who comes Spetember 7, wanting to buy?
OLE: Carl Heine came.
HOOKS: But Carl was a fisherman. And successful at it.
OLE: He said he didn't want that life no more. He'd been saving to buy a farm. He was sorry I got sick. But pretty excited to get back his father's place.
OLE: Liesel and me. Was happy for him.
HOOKS: And later, that eight days before Carl Heine died. Did another prospective buyer appear?
LIESEL: I'm sorry to tell you, we took his earnest money, he shook Ole's hand. Come November, he'll sell his boat, and take over the farm.
KABUO: But your sign.
OLE: We din't have no time to take it down. He just come ten o'clock.
KABUO: It's my fault. I should have come
OLE: If you want t'buy them seven acres. Carl Heine's the only fella can sell 'em.
JUDGE: I apologize for keeping you folks from your families in a storm like this. I do hope you'll be reasonably comfortable in the hotel tonight. And one more thing.
JUDGE: This Court takes judicial notice of the fact that tomorrow is the 13th anniversary of the attack on Pearl
JUDGE: Which has trial. Which is why I mention it.
JUDGE: 10 o'clock tomorrow, folks. Stay
ISHMAEL: Know where it is?
ISHMAEL: It's in my other hand.
ISHMAEL: Your mother went to the bathroom. She said I could show them a trick.
HATSUE: Thank you for your help. Let's go find obaasan.
ABEL: This is from Nels, I can't see the harm. Don't tell Art, okay?
MORAN: This here is Nels Gudmundsson, he's your attorney.
KABUO: What makes you think I play?
NELS: Your daddy played. I asked, down at the Japanese Community Center. You smoke cigars?
KABUO: I'm not sure. I better check down at the Center.
NELS: White or black?
KABUO: You mean, do I like to take the offensive? Or hang back and wait.
NELS: Nice. When two fellas understand each other.
KABUO: You must think I like losing.
NELS: I think you like learning.
NELS: Me, too. That's why I come.
NELS: Bet there's a few things you could teach me. Kendo, for one.
KABUO: Sure. I could take a fishing gaff and split your head open. Right above your left ear.
KABUO: You wouldn't even see it move.
NELS: You're wonderin'.how come I never ask. If you did it.
NELS: Now, you've told me you killed four men. In Germany. So I know you are the kind of man who can kill. When there's a reason. Guess I am.
NELS: You feel guilty. That you took their lives. That's in your eyes. Jury sees what I see. More often than not.
NELS: Prosecutor thinks. What was your reason? To kill Carl Heine.
NELS: Well, there is the land itself. Raise your children where you were raised. Sleep with your wife at night, 'stead of bein' alone on the sea.
NELS: There's fairness and honor. You were cheated by that old bitch. Boy, she is something. She's not alone. None of us are.
NELS: And prejudice, like you say. Your people locked in a concentration camp. You go off to fight for our country's freedom. Come back to this.
NELS: But Mr. Hooks has missed the reason. One reason. You coulda done it.
NELS: I read you Etta Heine's deposition. So I could watch your mind. Like I do when you move your rook, or when I move mine.
NELS: And you weren't thinking about her. Or about land. Or about you.
NELS: No, someone cheats you, you can rise above that. You're a family man. You put them ahead of you, hmmn?
NELS: Wasn't you she dishonored.
NELS: Your father was a strong and tireless man. Honest to a fault. Kind, and humble as well. Nice. When two fellas. Understand each other.
NELS: Now this jury is gonna be lookin' at the evidence with one eye. And at you with the oth.
KABUO: Mr. Gudmundsson, we that jury is looking at.
NELS: Your father needs you. To return to your family. So every time you think about showing that jury strength. Or honor or composure. Or dignity.
NELS: So every time you think about showing that jury strength. Or honor or composure. Or dignity.
KABUO: I should show them an American?
NELS: Show them an innocent man.
KABUO: Shame you couldn't play chess with my dad, sir. He'd kick your ass.
HATSUE: I can just feel my spirits soar.
ISHMAEL: Well, I don't do it for just
ISHMAEL: There can't be any wrong in this, Ha.
HATSUE: I lie to my parents every day. And every night.
ISHMAEL: Well. Since I never told your folks, I guess I'm lying to 'em, too. But you don't hear me complaining about it.
HATSUE: I'm in awe. Of your strength.
DRIVER: all over the Pacific, the whole fleet's destroyed. The FBI's in Seattle right now.
DRIVER: .arresting Jap traitors, the spies and everything. There'll be a blackout tonight, so keep your radios off. So the Japs don't pick up no signals. You get the message?
ISHMAEL: I have a radio, too. Don't you want to be sure I got the message?
ISHMAEL: Just checking.
HATSUE: My father can't get our money from the bank. We have a few dol.
ISHMAEL: It'll be over soon. I can get you money. It's not going to get better, okay?
HATSUE: It's not going to get better, okay?
HATSUE: They arrested Mr. Shirazaki, because his farm is near a navy transmitter. And his family can't leave their house.
ISHMAEL: It's just Pearl Harbor. People are a little crazy, right n.
HATSUE: Look at my face. It's the face of the people who did that. My father hardly speaks English. We're in bad trouble, you have to see that.
ISHMAEL: Maybe we can fix your eyes.
ISHMAEL: Don't let this hurt us, okay? Whatever happens.
HATSUE: It won't. You'll see.
FUJIKO: Everyone on the island has these things. Well, they'll hold this stuff for a little bit, then ship it back to you. It's nothing to worry about.
AGENT: You folks have been real polite, and we'll be outta your hair in just a second.
AGENT: That's very nice. From the old country, it appears. Very high class.
AGENT: These are real nice things. They'll take special care of 'em. The flute is precious. The kimono, the music. Must you take th.
HISAO: The flute is precious. The kimono, the music. Must you take th.
AGENT: .oh yeh, any old country stuff, we have to take.
FUJIKO: This is only my daughter's scrapbook. For her memories. Wilson? Don't go pawing through the underwear!
AGENT: Strawberry Princess, huh? You musta been flattered by that. Looks just like y. Dynamite. Twenty-four sticks.
HISAO: You must believe. This for tree stumps. For clearing land.
AGENT: Maybe. Maybe. But this is still bad, y'see.
AGENT: It's illegal contraband, you were s'posed to turn this stuff in. We, uh.
AGENT: We gotta arrest you. Have to take you to Seattle.
AGENT: Naw, you don't need those. Mister Eee-ma-da-san here is a class act, a real gentleman.
FUJIKO: Please, reconsider. He has done no bad th.
AGENT: Well, nobody knows that yet, do they? So, best for an honest man to clear his name for godd and all.
AGENT: Only a few questions in Seattle, okay? Few questions, few answers, the whole thing is over.
AGENT: Simple as that.
FUJIKO: Because you need to know the darkness. In the hearts of the Not all of them.
FUJIKO: The whites are enslaved by their egos, Hatsue. Each believes his aloneness is everything. We seek union wi.
HATSUE: .the ones seeking union with the Greater Life bombed Pearl Harbor. They are not humble. I am not part of them, I'm part of here. I see this. This lack of purity is a mist around your soul. I see it every day, it haunts your face in unguarded moments.
FUJIKO: I see it in your eagerness to leave here. And walk the woods. In the afternoon.
FUJIKO: If you lose your true self, Hatsue. True self.
FUJIKO: There is no way back.
ISHMAEL: See, you bring it on yourself. 23 ladies honored by the PTA, you single out three names. And they're all Japanese. That isn't journalism. Because journalism. Is just the Which facts? You can't print them all. Journalism is balance. Finding the facts folks need to know.
ISHMAEL: Because journalism. Is just the Which facts? You can't print them all. Journalism is balance. Finding the facts folks need to know.
ARTHUR: Which facts? You can't print them all. Journalism is balance. Finding the facts folks need to know.
ISHMAEL: Hence. The letters.
ARTHUR: 'Seems like you're favoring the Japs, Art. Writin' all about their patriotism and loyalty with nothin' 'bout the treachery.'
ARTHUR: 'Your newspaper is an insult to all white Americans. Please cancel my subscription and send refund.'
ARTHUR: The calls are better. 'Jap lovers get their balls cut off and stuffed down their.' Missed the rest. Hanging up will do that.
ARTHUR: We lost the Price-Rite ads. And Lottie Opsvig's shop, and Larsen's Lumberyard and the Anacortes Cafe. And 30 percent of our subscribers.
ISHMAEL: Integrity is expensive stuff, huh?
ARTHUR: Valuable things. Sometimes are.
ARTHUR: But. I've got the answer.
ARTHUR: Print four pages. Instead of eight.
HATSUE: You're like me. You've learned to be devious.
ISHMAEL: It's not devious, it's what we have to do. You're leaving tomorrow. You write to my house, and put Kenny Yamashita's name on the return address. It's no big deal.
ISHMAEL: You write to my house, and put Kenny Yamashita's name on the return address. It's no big deal.
ISHMAEL: You smell like cedar.
HATSUE: So do you. It's your smell I'll miss as much as anything.
ISHMAEL: Let's get married, okay?
ISHMAEL: I want to marry you. Is that okay? Just say yes.
HATSUE: No. No. It isn't right.
ISHMAEL: It felt right to me. It felt like getting married.
HATSUE: I'll write you.
HATSUE: You think we're far enough away now?
HATSUE: Mom, whatever this is, they don't keep war secrets this carefully.
FUJIKO: Secrets are hard to keep.
FUJIKO: This letter. Was opened. By mistake. 'My love. I still go to our cedar tree in the afternoons every day. I shut my eyes, waiting.' 'I smell your smell. And I dream of you. And I ache for you to come home. So I can hold you and feel you near.' 'After all these years that we've been together, I find you're a part of me. Without you, I have nothing. All my love, forever.'
FUJIKO: The neighborhood boy. Who taught you to swim?
HATSUE: You shouldn't have opened that. It was mi. How deceitful of me.
FUJIKO: How can I ever hope. For your I have written this letter to the boy's parents.
FUJIKO: I have written this letter to the boy's parents.
FUJIKO: Attraction is no crime, certainly among children. The dishonor lies in the concealment. From your families.
FUJIKO: I know that you know this. I know you have suffered. Even if the hakujin could not.
FUJIKO: There will be no further letters. No contact of any k.
HATSUE: One more letter. I will write it. You may read it, and send it for me.
HATSUE: I deceived more than you. I deceived this sweet boy. And myself. It was never love.
HATSUE: I will work hard. To earn your
HATSUE: I can never hope for his.
SUMIKO: These boys are buildings us a mansion! I'm Kabuo Miyamoto, Mrs. Imada.
KABUO: I'm Kabuo Miyamoto, Mrs. Imada.
FUJIKO: We are in your debt, Miyamoto-san. How are your parents, your family.?
KABUO: My father is sick with the camp food. The rest of us are fine. Don't speak of dept, please, we just want to help.
KABUO: Hi, Hatsue, remember me?
KABUO: I was a senior when you were a junior. But I've seen you around.
HATSUE: Can't win a smile, but he doesn't seem to mind.
KABUO: Nice to see you.
SQUAD LEADER: MOVE IT, MOVE IT, MOVE IT,
SERGEANT: deserve to have your balls chewed off real slow when this is over! Any man who won't follow me over this wall is a cornhole-fucker with a half-inch hard-on wh.
SERGEANT: Any man who won't follow me over this wall is a cornhole-fucker with a half-inch hard-on wh.
ZENHICHI: Your great-grandfather was a samurai, a magnificent soldier.
ZENHICHI: He killed himself. On the battlefield. At Kumamoto.
ZENHICHI: He went to battle with a sword. Against rifles, mind you. Knowing what honor required.
ZENHICHI: He was angry. To the point of being crazy, yes. But he knew what honor. Required.
ZENHICHI: Honor can require loyalty. Revenge. Death.
KABUO: These are safe, father. The hakujin will never f. .it is the only scale.
ZENHICHI: Only scale. In which our worth. Is weighed.
ZENHICHI: Every life ends. And if it ends dishonored. It is as if. .we have never lived.
MORAN: Well, this one here comes off Miyamoto's boat. Matches all his others, worn equal and so on. But this one here.
MORAN: .comes off third cleat from the stern, port side. And it's brand new. Unlike the rest.
HOOKS: And the next one.?
MORAN: From Carl Heine's boat. All his were like this one, three-strand manila, new condition, braided in loops. Not bowlined like Miyamoto's.
HOOKS: And the last.?
MORAN: Found on Carl's boat, too. Starboard side, second cleat from the stern. But it doesn't match Carl's lines. It matches Miyamoto's. perfect.
HOOKS: So if defendant had tied up to deceased's boat. With that last one. Would those cleats have lined up?
MORAN: You bet. And if Miyamoto there had been in a hurry to cast off, he coulda left this line behind on Carl's boat.
HOOKS: And replaced it later with the new one. That's your inference?
MORAN: Pretty darn clear.
HOOKS: And when you visited defendant on his boat. The evening after Carl Heine's death. Did it seem pretty darn clear to him?
MORAN: Cut your engine, we're coming
KABUO: What for, Sheriff?
MORAN: We have a warrant. To search your boat.
KABUO: Well, what are you looking f. A murder weapon. We think you might be responsible for the death of Carl Heine. Sheriff, if somebody killed Carl, it sure as hell wasn't me.
KABUO: Sheriff, if somebody killed Carl, it sure as hell wasn't me.
MORAN: Then let's get this over with, so you can get to fishin'. Now, cut yor engine.
MORAN: You always run with the well open?
KABUO: I was checking the cables.
MORAN: D-6s, huh?
MORAN: We'll come back, let's take a look at the stern.
MORAN: See you replaced a mooring line, lately. This one's new.
KABUO: Naw, I had that around for a while.
MORAN: Sure you did. Help me with this hold cover, willya?
KABUO: There's nothin' to see. I need to get out there fi.
ABEL: There's blood on it.
KABUO: Fish blood, I gaff fish with that.
MORAN: You gaff with the Blood's on the butt. Where your hand goes.
KABUO: Sure. Blood gets all hand, Sheriff, ask any fisherman.
MORAN: Gonna have this tested. Now you go home, okay? Wait til you hear from me.
KABUO: Sheriff, I can't afford not to fish toni.
MORAN: Look, no way I'm lettin' you out there. In a half hour you could be in Canada.
MORAN: I'm sorry, son. But you're under
MORAN: She's alright, Nels, thanks for asking.
MORAN: The damage was considerable. But she's insured. Thanks, again.
NELS: Well, just to put it back in our minds, could you repeat what you told us. About the type of batteries you found. One Carl's boat.
MORAN: One D-6 and one D-8 in the well. And a dead D-8 on the deck.
NELS: Which you inferred was replaced by the D-6, which must have been a spare.
MORAN: What else could it be?
NELS: Even though a D-6 is too big, and the flange had to be banged out to squeeze it in. Which makes it a peculiar choice. For a spare.
MORAN: Everybody laughs. Including Nels.
NELS: No further questions.
DR. WHITMAN: Carl Heine's type.
NELS: But you can't say with any certainty that the blood was his.
DR. WHITMAN: No, but as I say, the type is rare. Ten percent of Caucasian males.
NELS: And the blood could belonged to defendant. Seeing that his type is O negative.
DR. WHITMAN: That's obvious.
NELS: You scraped the dried blood from the butt of the gaff. Where a fella's hand goes. And what did you see under your microscope, besides the B positive blood and the wood scrapings.?
DR. WHITMAN: Bits of blood and wood. What else would there be?
NELS: No bits of bone, no particles of scalp, no strands of hair?
DR. WHITMAN: Well, if the blood got gaff by crushing a man's skull.
NELS: Well, if the blood got gaff by crushing a man's skull.
DR. WHITMAN: I'm a hemotologist, sir, I was asked only t. .would that seem logical?
DR. WHITMAN: I don't know.
NELS: You don't.
NELS: The coroner testified that Carl Heine had a cut. A fresh cut. Probably one or two hours old.
NELS: On the palm. Of his right hand.
NELS: With no bone or scalp or hair present. Would it be more probable that the blood came from crushing a man's skull.
DR. WHITMAN: I'm a hemotologist, not a detective.
NELS: .or from the cut on his hand. Which is more probable? It is not my function. To weigh those probabilities.
DR. WHITMAN: It is not my function. To weigh those probabilities.
NELS: You're right.
NELS: .that's the jury's job.
HOOKS: Now this regiment you were training, the 442nd, this was all Nisei boys.
MAPLES: They were Japanese-American boys, yes sir.
HOOKS: And you were generally experienced in training men for hand-to-hand It was my specialty, sir, I trained several thousand over the years.
MAPLES: It was my specialty, sir, I trained several thousand over the years.
HOOKS: So. Wide cross-section of men to evaluate. And the day that the defendant volunteered for this. demonstration. Did you find him More than eager. He was out to make a point.
MAPLES: More than eager. He was out to make a point.
HOOKS: And what point. Was that.
MAPLES: And Kabup steps forward. Bows slightly. Then salutes.
KABUO: Maples stares. Hard.
SIR!: Maples stares. Hard.
MAPLES: You don't salute me, you don't call me 'sir', soldier, I'm an enlisted man.
MAPLES: And nobody Army, you're in America, son. Not Japan.
KABUO: I'm sorry, sir, force of habit.
MAPLES: No more 'sir'. That's the last of that.
MAPLES: The exercise is avoiding thrusts. Now, first y. Ready, sergeant. Excuse me.
MAPLES: Are you ready for some simulated combat, soldier?
KABUO: For combat. Sergeant. Your weapon, sergeant.
HOOKS: Well, what then, sergeant?
MAPLES: What else? I had the boy teach me kendo. Including.the importance of the bow. And your evaluation of the defendant? Could he kill a much larger man with a fishing gaff? So quickly, there would be no sign of struggle?
HOOKS: And your evaluation of the defendant? Could he kill a much larger man with a fishing gaff? So quickly, there would be no sign of struggle?
MAPLES: Oh, in a heartbeat.
MAPLES: Able and willing. Like few men I've ever seen.
HOOKS: So the plan was for your husband to fish through the prime season. Then, in November, sell the boat. And you would move onto the farm.
SUSAN MARIE: That was his plan, yes.
HOOKS: Can you think back for me to the morning of September 8? The day after your husband purchased the farm. One week before his death. Can you recall that morning?
SUSAN MARIE: I can.
SUSAN MARIE: Did he go away angry?
CARL: He kept talkin' about those seven acres belonged to his father, and how honorable and decent his father was. His meaning was pretty clear. And I didn't much like it.
SUSAN MARIE: You had a scrap.
CARL: I couldn't. Kabuo's a Jap. And I don't hate Japs, but I don't like 'em neither. It's hard to explain if you weren't in the war, you know?
SUSAN MARIE: He's not a Jap. You don't mean that. You and he were friends.
CARL: We were kids.
SUSAN MARIE: I wouldn't say encouraged.
SUSAN MARIE: Not in those words.
SUSAN MARIE: I guess so.
NELS: I guess you'd have to guess. Not having been there with them. Having to guess whether your husband's report was word for word accurate.
SUSAN MARIE: Carl never lied.
NELS: Of course not. But it was emotional. A friend's plea set against his mother's attitude.
NELS: Those 'dirty looks'. Defendant ever aim one of those at you?
SUSAN MARIE: He had no reason to.
NELS: Carl ever say
SUSAN MARIE: I can't speak for him.
NELS: You can speak for what he Just like you did for Mr. Hooks.
NELS: Sorry about that, Mrs. Heine. Shall I repeat the ques.
SUSAN MARIE: Carl said he didn't like Kabuo much anymore.
NELS: The question is more about the defendant's attitu.
SUSAN MARIE: That's all he said.
SUSAN MARIE: And we can't ask him anymore.
ISHMAEL: May I give you folks a lift?
HATSUE: My father is grateful for your kindness. But he will free his car, shortly.
ISHMAEL: Okay, I'll help.
ISHMAEL: I know it's caused you trouble. But don't you think the snow is beautiful, coming down?
HISAO: Suddenly, her eyes SNAP to meet Ishmael's in the mirror. His dart away. Hers hold.
HATSUE: This trial is unfair. You should write about that in your newspaper. What should I say?
HATSUE: Just that. This trial is they are calling a good man a killer. It is only about prejudice, and that is unfair.
ISHMAEL: We all expect the world to be fair. As if we have some right t.
HATSUE: I don't mean everyone. Just people who can do things because they can arrest people or convict them. Or run a newspaper.
ISHMAEL: Maybe I What do you think?
HATSUE: What do
ISHMAEL: I think people. Should be fair.
HATSUE: Will you write that?
ISHMAEL: I might just.
ISHMAEL: You have the night watch? On the Since September. Last guys got
LEVANT: Since September. Last guys got
ISHMAEL: And you keep the records, or contribute to 'em.
LEVANT: Shorthard the radio transmis- sions, write 'em up, file 'em in a cabinet. Nobody ever looks. Just take up space.
ISHMAEL: All kinds of radio transmissions? Fisherman in trouble, and such.
LEVANT: All kinds. Make yourself at home.
HATSUE: The voice, the face, are cool and formal. There is no anger, no unkindness. Only the absence of warmth. Ishmael nods. His face hard, stricken. His heart pounds in his throat.
HATSUE: I'm sorry about your arm. Kabuo and I. Are very sor.
ISHMAEL: The Japs did it.
ISHMAEL: They shot it off. At Tarawa. I'm sorry, I'm sorry I said that.
ISHMAEL: I'm sorry, I'm sorry I said that.
ISHMAEL: I'm sorry about everything. All of it.
ISHMAEL: How long you have this detail?
LEVANT: Me and Smoltz came on dogwatch September 16.
ISHMAEL: You mean, early morning the 16th?
LEVANT: No, night of the 16th, morning the 17th. We replaced two guys named Miller and Milholland.
LEVANT: They got transferred that day. Out to Cape Flattery.
LEVANT: You get what you come for?
ISHMAEL: Guess I'm not completely sure. What that was.
ISHMAEL: Can I talk to you?
HATSUE: I'm married, Ishmael. It isn't right for us to be alone. People will t.
ISHMAEL: There's no one here, and I've to talk to you.
ISHMAEL: Don't you owe me that?
ISHMAEL: I'm like a dying person.
ISHMAEL: I don't sleep. I tell myself this can't go on, but it goes on anyway.
HATSUE: I did a terrible thing, Ishmael. I knew what you felt. And what I
HATSUE: And I never found the courage to tell you.
ISHMAEL: You'll think this is crazy, but all I want is to hold you. Just once. And smell your hair.
HATSUE: You have to hear this, I can never touch you, Ishmael. Not once, not ever. There's no half- way. As much as I know it hurts you, you have to let this go.
ISHMAEL: Look, I I think if you hold me, just this once, I can walk away and never speak to you again.
ISHMAEL: Please? As one human being to another, just because I'm miserable and don't know where to turn. I need to be in your arms. If it's just for thirty seconds.
HATSUE: I hurt for you. Whether you'll ever believe that or not.
HATSUE: I feel sick sometimes, with the guilt of what I've done to you. And I can't make it right.
HATSUE: To hold you would be wrong and deceitful. You're going to have to live without holding me, that is the truth of the way things are.
HATSUE: Things end. They do. Get on with your life.
HATSUE: Get on with your life.
HELEN: Your father thought that heavy snow was God's kindness. Despite the hardship, it brought us beauty.
HELEN: .and reminded us. Of our place in things.
HELEN: You don't believe in God anymore.
ISHMAEL: Agnostics don't believe or disbelieve, Ma. We just don't pretend we know.
HELEN: We don't felt Him as a child. I remember.
ISHMAEL: That's a long time ago. What a child feels.that's different.
HELEN: Spend the night, will you? Don't go back out into all that snow.
HELEN: You've been busy with that trial, I suppose. Such a travesty.
HELEN: They only arrested that poor soul because he's Japanese.
ISHMAEL: Seattle boys think he's guilty. They say the evidence is rock solid.
HELEN: They're not his neighbor, like you are. He is a husband, a father, he risked his life for their country. The same as you.
ISHMAEL: Those aren't the facts that matter.
HELEN: Well, folks are pretty cold. And folks who believe in nothing else.they're cold, too.
HELEN: I've tried to understand your unhappiness, all these years. Having gone to war, losing your arm.
HELEN: But other boys came back. And pushed on. They found girls, and married, had babies.
ISHMAEL: Someday I'll get lucky, too.
HELEN: Your father fought at Belleau Wood, it took him years to get over it. Nightmares, tears, b.
ISHMAEL: .but he found you.
HELEN: It isn't the war, Ishmael. All those years growing up. You never had a real girl of your own.
HELEN: And I know you have it in you to love. I know that much. I wish I knew more.
ISHMAEL: I'll stay tonight. Thanks for asking.
NAGAISHI: The Japanese people of the island are saddened by this loss. Your father was a man of great fairness and compassion for others.
NAGAISHI: A friend to us. And to all people.
ISHMAEL: And no more. The man takes a step back.
NAGAISHI: We know you will follow in his footsteps. And honor his legacy.
HATSUE: Hopeful. Is the word I would use.
NELS: But Carl didn't say yes.
HATSUE: He didn't say no. That was Kabuo's point. Given how Carl's mother felt, Carl was still willing to consider selling to us. It was a good sign.
NELS: Well, in the week that followed, the week before Carl's death. did your husband pursue him?
HATSUE: No. Kabuo did not wish to beg, he respected Carl's right to reflect. He was sure Carl would do the honorable thing. And did he?
HATSUE: The night of the 15th, Kabuo helped Carl at sea. With his dead battery.
HATSUE: Right there, on the boat, they agreed. $8400 for the seven acres, $800 down. They shook on it. Kabuo was so excited when he came home.
NELS: And when did you first learn. That Carl had drowned?
HATSUE: One o'clock, that afternoon, from a clerk at Petersen's. Your witness.
HOOKS: Your husband came home agitated, after his encounter with the
HATSUE: I said 'excited'. Not agitated, he was excited in the sense of being overjoyed.
HOOKS: You were.overjoyed yourself, to hear the news?
HATSUE: Happy for him. And relieved.
HOOKS: So, then, you.and your husband. must have called friends, relatives, to tell them the amazing news. Yes? Really? Didn't call your mother, your sisters, about starting a new life. Your husband never tells his brothers that the family honor is vindicated.
HOOKS: Really? Didn't call your mother, your sisters, about starting a new life. Your husband never tells his brothers that the family honor is vindicated.
HATSUE: We hear how Carl.passed away. Only a few hours later.
HOOKS: Your husband returned at, what, seven o'clock?
HATSUE: Closer to eight.
HOOKS: So, five hours. Plenty of time for a call. He was 'excited', you say. In the sense of being 'overjoyed'.
HATSUE: We are.cautious people. You would say conservative. There would be time for celebrating with others when a paper was signed.
HOOKS: You thought the deceased might. break his promise?
HATSUE: Of course not. We're just not quick to run and boast. In case something went wrong.
HOOKS: And then, something did. Carl Heine was found dead. With his head crushed.
HATSUE: Yes, and then, what was there to call about? Everything was up in the air.
HOOKS: Up in the air? Was
HOOKS: I would suggest that more happened than a land sale evaporating. A man died, Mrs. Miyamoto. A husband and father of small children had his skull bashed in! If you mean to imply that we were callous about Carl's death, that is wrong and insulting.
HOOKS: I see. Well, did you come forward to tell Sheriff Moran what you knew? The encounter in the fog, the.dead battery, was it? We discussed that. And decided not to.
HATSUE: We discussed that. And decided not to.
HOOKS: Why not?
HATSUE: Because the facts could be misconstrued as murder.
HOOKS: But if truth was on your side, whatever were you worried about?
HATSUE: Trials aren't only about truth, Mr. Hooks. Even though they should be. They're about what people believe is true.
HOOKS: So you hid the truth. Deliberately.
HATSUE: We were afraid. Silence seemed better. To come forward seemed like a mistake.
HOOKS: Well, it seems to me. Objection. Mr. Hooks can give his view in his summation.
HOOKS: Doesn't it seem to Miyamoto, that your mistake was in being deceitful? Concealing information during the course of a sheriff's investigation.
HATSUE: It seems human. To me.
HOOKS: I suppose that you mean this concealing the truth. Then why ahouls any of us believe you now?
HOOKS: Question withdrawn, you may step down.
HATSUE: You're implying th.
HOOKS: I said. No further questions. That's enough, Mrs. Miyamoto, not another word. Step down, please.
JUDGE: That's enough, Mrs. Miyamoto, not another word. Step down, please.
GILLANDERS: Unwritten rule of the sea. We don't bother each other, stick to ourselves. Ask anybody.
NELS: Now if you wanted to kill a man. Think you'd try boarding against his will, and hitting him with a fishing gaff?
GILLANDERS: It's a joke. Maneuver up to Carl's boat? Tie your lines fast? Come aboard? All against Carl's will? It's the stupidest suggestion I ever heard of.
NELS: I'm sorry about that. It wasn't mine in the first place.
NELS: So the fishing gaff method wouldn't make sense?
GILLANDERS: Couldn't get on the boat. I'd just shoot the feller. Then tie up, throw him inta th' drink. And skip bein' the first gill-netter in history to make a successful forced boarding.
NELS: Now the sheriff believed that the D-6 battery in Carl's well was Carl's own spare. Even though it was too large f.
GILLANDERS: No sense to have even the right size. It's like having an extra battery in the trunk of your car. Nobody does.
GILLANDERS: Boat has two batteries. Lose one you run off the other til morning. Carl musta lost both, so Miyamoto there gave him one a his.
NELS: Course, if Carl lost both batteries, dead in the water, his radio wouldn't work. So how would he signal for help?
GILLANDERS: Compressed air horn, most likely. Hope to God some man hears you in that fog.
NELS: All right, what if the defendant heard? So Carl let him aboard, to help. And then the fishing gaff?
GILLANDERS: You mean Miyamoto followed him out there, and sucker-punched him?
NELS: Well, what if?
GILLANDERS: Now, how is Miyamoto gonna know in advance? That Carl loses two batteries. Must happen once ever' 20 years or so.
NELS: Thank you, Mr. Gillanders. Thank you for coming down, in this cold Well, it does seem mighty warm in here. Specially for Mr. Hooks.
GILLANDERS: Well, it does seem mighty warm in here. Specially for Mr. Hooks.
HOOKS: What if the defendant follows Carl. And pretends his own batteries are dead? Would Carl tie up and help?
HOOKS: Is the word you're groping for.'yes', perha.
HOOKS: Rephrase. Do you agree that he might tie up to the defendant's bo.
GILLANDERS: So why's the D-6 in Carl's well?
HOOKS: Who's to say? Maybe it was just a spare, after all. Or maybe the defendant left it, as a potential alibi. In case somebody saw him in Ship Channel Bank. In case we put two and two together, knowing of the hostility. Between the families.
HOOKS: My question is. Could Carl have tied up to help the defendant?
GILLANDERS: to say it's doubtful, you'd probl'y say 'no further questions', right?
HOOKS: Right about that. it 'coulda happened'.
HOOKS: Thanks for your help. Hope the witness box wasn't too warm for your comfort.
NELS: But the toughest scenario. Is the one Hooks will never raise.
KABUO: And what's that?
NELS: That you came upon Carl by accident. Like you said. Gave him the battery. Like you said. Asked him about the seven acres. Like you said.
NELS: Only. He said no. And something.happened. That you'd never planned. Because you're not a cold-blooded killer.
NELS: And something.happened. That you'd never planned. Because you're not a cold-blooded killer.
KABUO: I'm more a hot-blooded killer, huh? Like a soldier. Like a samurai.
NELS: You won't hear that from Hooks. Because the charge is first-degree murder, which requires premeditation. He can't change the charge.
NELS: So if the jury thinks you but only in the heat of anger. They have to acquit.
NELS: And you couldn't. Be. Re-tried.
KABUO: You want me to say that.
NELS: I want you. To tell the truth.
KABUO: You think that
NELS: I told your wife. Trials aren't always so much about actual truth. As about what folks believe is true. That's sad. And it's real.
KABUO: And what do you believe?
NELS: A question first. Why do you want to know? Because you're my friend.
NELS: I believe you are a good man. Who belongs with his family.
NELS: And I believe. You didn't do it.
CARL: Don't know how long it's take to get a charge.
KABUO: Keep it tonight. We'll catch fish. I'll see ya back on the docks. Hold on. You know as well as I do, we got somethin' to talk
CARL: Seven acres. I'm wonderin' what you'd pay for 'em. Just curious, is all.
KABUO: What are you sellin' 'em for? Why don't we start there.
CARL: Did I say I was selling? But if I was, I'd have to figure you want 'em real bad. Oughta charge a sall fortune, maybe.
CARL: Then again. Maybe you'd want your battery back.
KABUO: The battery's in, that's done with. Besides, you'd do the same for m.
CARL: warn you 'bout that, chief. I'm not screwed together like I used to be.
CARL: Hell, I'm sorry, okay? About the whole damn mess. If I'd a been around, my mother wouldn't a pulled it off that way. I was out there at sea. Fightin' you Jap sons-a-bitches. I'm an American. Did I call you a Nazi, you big Nazi bastard? Not that I recall.
KABUO: I killed men who looked just like you, pig-fed German bastards. And their blood don't wash off so easy.
KABUO: So don't talk to me about Japs, you big Nazi son of a bitch.
CARL: I am a bastard. I'm a big Hun Nazi son of a bitch. And I still got your bamboo fishing rod.
KABUO: Oh, yeh?
CARL: Hid it from my mom. Caught a mess a sea runs. Damn thing's still in my closet. You can have it. The hell with it.
CARL: $1200 an acre, that's what I paid Ole, won't take a dime less. You got no choice on that.
KABUO: Didn't say I was buyin' did I? What you want down? Just bein' curious, is all.
CARL: A thousand down. We'll sign papers t'morrow.
KABUO: Eight hundred. And it's a deal.
KABUO: As my wife testified, we were considering it.
HOOKS: Actually, she said you had decided. Decided not not come forward. I was thinking about it. Every Except even when Sheriff Moran arrested you. You said nothing about seeing Carl.
HOOKS: Except even when Sheriff Moran arrested you. You said nothing about seeing Carl.
HOOKS: At that point, you were under suspicion. The battery story explained things. If the story was true.and not simply something you thought up later.
HOOKS: Why. Didn't you. Tell it?
KABUO: Sheriff said right off, I was under suspicion. I didn't have a lawyer.
HOOKS: But even attorney. You still claimed to know nothing. Claimed not to have seen Carl. Am I correct?
KABUO: Yes. Initially.
HOOKS: Well, 'initially' is an interesting word, sir. You'd been arrested, you had a lawyer, and you still claimed ignorance! I should have told everything right away. I know that now, and I regret it.
KABUO: I should have told everything right away. I know that now, and I regret it.
HOOKS: Should have told 'everything'. Meaning, you should have told the truth. Nothing to say? I didn't know that was a question. It sounded like a speech. My apologies. Do you regret not telling the truth?
HOOKS: Nothing to say? I didn't know that was a question. It sounded like a speech. My apologies. Do you regret not telling the truth?
HOOKS: My apologies. Do you regret not telling the truth?
KABUO: I have told the truth.
HOOKS: You mean, this morning. The new story, the battery story. That one is the truth? That's a question, sir. Yes. And I told it long before this morning.
HOOKS: I see. Now what happened the day Carl Heine was found? Before your arrest.
KABUO: I slept til one-thirty, when my wife woke me up with the news. We talked for a few hours. I left at six and went straight to my boat.
HOOKS: Didn't go anywhere else? No errands, no purchases? Just straight to the boat. That's the truth.
KABUO: Hooks leans over the box. Ever so slightly invading Kabuo's space.
HOOKS: Well, the sheriff found in your well. If you left one with Carl Heine, how is that possible?
KABUO: I had a spare battery in my shed. I brought it down, and put it in just before the sheriff showed up.
HOOKS: Conveniently, in your shed. Only you didn't mention that a moment ago. Why does this battery story change every time a new question is raised?
KABUO: You asked if I went straight to the boat. I did. With the battery.
HOOKS: You're a hard man to trust, sir. You sit before us, with no expression, keeping a poker f.
JUDGE: You know better than that, Mr. Hooks. Either ask questions that count for something, or sit down and be done with it.
JUDGE: Shame on you.
HOOKS: I apologize to the court, for letting my feelings get the better of me.
HOOKS: No other questions. We'll go to
HOOKS: .believing that Etta Heine's son would never sell him the land. Land that in his mind, filtered through ancient rules of behavior handed down from his ancestors' culture, belonged to his family by right.
HOOKS: would be to eliminate Carl Heine. So that Ole Jurgensen would need a new buyer.
HOOKS: In his mind. Seen through codes of revenge difficult for us to fathom, this was also the only way to avenge what he felt to be the grievous dishonor brought to his father, his family.
HOOKS: .to a thousand years of ancestry, in a foreign land we still find an enigma. Despite our recent bitter experience with its ways.
HOOKS: Thus believing cold-blooded murder to be justified.he trailed Carl Heine. could hear his engine in the fog.and sounded his own horn, claiming distress.
HOOKS: As Carl pulled alongside: 'Please, Carl,' the defendant must have said. 'I am sorry for what has come between us, but adrift here in the fog, I plead for your help!'
HOOKS: And so this good man tied his boat fast, while his enemy leaps aboard, striking the treacherous blow he was trained to strike by his father's hand.
HOOKS: The feud over these seven acres had festered for eight years. He argued with Carl about buying the land one week before Carl was killed. Carl's skull was crushed, and his blood is on a murder weapon with which the defendant is a deadly expert!
HOOKS: And after a series of defendant at last admits he was there. Alone on the boat. In the fog. Carl Heine's blood on his fishing gaff.
HOOKS: My lord. My lord.
HOOKS: Look clearly at the defendant. See the truth self-evident in him. And in the facts of this case.
HOOKS: Look into his eyes, ladies and gentlemen, consider his face. And ask yourself what your duty is as citizens of this community.
NELS: Etta Heine had cheated his family. He had asked his childhood friend Carl to sell him the land. And Carl was considering it.
NELS: There is Carl, much less rage, much less murderous rage. No reason for premeditation and no evidence of it. Anywhere.
NELS: And yet the state is required to prove these things. Beyond. A reasonable. Doubt.
NELS: Can you seriously think there is no reasonable doubt? Why is Kabuo's D-6 battery in Carl's well, if Carl was helping him? Why isn't the blood on the gaff more consistent with Carl's hand wound than a skull fracture? Given the absence of bone or brain tissue.
NELS: Why isn't the blood on the gaff more consistent with Carl's hand wound than a skull fracture? Given the absence of bone or brain tissue.
NELS: What Mr. Hooks asks you to believe is that no proof is needed. Against a man who bombed Pearl Harbor.
NELS: Look at his face, the prosecutor said. Presuming that you will see an enemy there. Treacherous by nature, by a thousand years of something or other.
NELS: An argument I find as despicable as it is dishonest and twisted and insulting to us all. Mr. Miyamoto is a much-decorated hero of the United States Army. For God's sake.
NELS: If someone said you should convict Carl Heine. Or his lovely widow. Of murder. Without proof. Because their ancestry is the same as Hitler's. You would spit in his eye.
NELS: And every decent American. Would applaud you.
NELS: Now Kabuo Miyamoto did one thing wrong. He was afraid to trust us, at first. Afraid that he would be crucified by prejudice. As Mr. Hooks is urging you to do. Well, we sent him. And his wife. And thousands of Americans to concentration camps. They lost homes, belongings, everything. We did that, folks. Can we now be unforgiving about his uncertainty? His mistrust?
NELS: Well, we sent him. And his wife. And thousands of Americans to concentration camps. They lost homes, belongings, everything. We did that, folks. Can we now be unforgiving about his uncertainty? His mistrust?
NELS: You may think this is a small trial. In a small place. Well, it isn't.
NELS: Every once in awhile. Somewhere in the world. Humanity goes on trial. And integrity. And decency. Every once in awhile, common folks get called on to give the report card for the human race.
NELS: Now here in America. We relish those chances. Give us that one, we say. That's why we built this country in the first place.
NELS: Be Americans. Make your children proud.
MORAN: I'm awful sorry, Ma'am, but you know I c.
HATSUE: What are you afraid of, Sheriff?
HATSUE: Am I going to slip him a weapon for a mad escape? Perhaps a kendo staff hidden in my dress?
MORAN: There's rules.
HATSUE: Well, please break them, then. I won't keep you a moment.
HATSUE: I love you. And tomorrow, when I make our bed. I'm setting out your pillow. You better be there.
KABUO: Only if you ask me nice. Did you write that column?
HATSUE: Did you write that column?
ISHMAEL: I did. But the jury won't s.
HATSUE: It's not for the. They only get to convict him.
HATSUE: It's the judge who decides. If he'll hang. None of that is gonna ha.
HATSUE: You don't think he did this.
ISHMAEL: I know he didn't.
HATSUE: Come to supper, tonight. My mother would be proud to have you with us.
ISHMAEL: I can't.
ISHMAEL: Tell your mom. I want a rain check.
MORAN: You have a visitor, son.
MORAN: You said three minutes.
ISHMAEL: Won't take two.
KABUO: Please, sit down.
KABUO: She told me you're writing a column. We're very grateful.
KABUO: She. Said you two go way back.
KABUO: That's nice.
ISHMAEL: You said there was a lantern in his hand. When you found him in the fog.
ISHMAEL: And another one. Lashed to the mast?
KABUO: That's right.
ISHMAEL: Two. Lanterns.
KABUO: If I did the math right.
ISHMAEL: It's the sheriff's math. I'm wondering about.
MORAN: You threatened me, Chambers, pure and simple. And what idiot's gonna believe some cock and bull story that I made a deal to keep stuff outta your paper? Not that anybody reads your paper.
ISHMAEL: Same idiots who'll believe cracked this case. When I tell 'em you did.
MORAN: See, no lantern. Sheriff? That's Miyamoto's boat. No lantern there, neither.
MORAN: Never shoulda given you that inventory in the first place.
ISHMAEL: It's public record. If the public cares enough to read it.
ISHMAEL: You said there was a coffee c. I picked it up.
ABEL: It's the only thing I moved, I swear. It was right there.
MORAN: You wanna see that in the Don't ever touch something at a cri.
MORAN: One lantern. Like the inventory says. Sorry to disappoint you.
ISHMAEL: Actually. I was hoping you got it right. What's that, up there?
MORAN: Nothin'. Bits of string.
ISHMAEL: Pieces of twine aren't nothing.
MORAN: Here now, what are you fixin' to do?
ISHMAEL: Have a look. At nothing.
MORAN: You can't go up there, touch things. Trial's over, Sheriff, it's with the jury now.
MORAN: You gonna climb that with one arm?
ISHMAEL: You're right. I better use two.
ABEL: There's lots of 'em, Art, look.
ISHMAEL: A dozen or more, all figure eights. All cut clean through on an angle.
ABEL: And look at that streak of rust, across the mast.
ISHMAEL: It's on the twine, too. But it's not r.
MORAN: Don't prove there was two lanterns. Coulda been the one in the cabin. There's a stretch of ground between guessin' and provin', Sheriff. I'll give you that.
ISHMAEL: There's a stretch of ground between guessin' and provin', Sheriff. I'll give you that.
HAROLD JENSEN: Alex, nobody ain't ever nothin'. It's unreasonable to be so stubborn that you think you're smarter than eleven folks who all agree!
EDITH TWARDZIK: The man sat there and lied, Mr. Van Ness. Now why isn't that enough for you?
HAROLD JENSEN: But what Means he's hiding somethin'.
BURKE LATHAM: Look, if you changed chairs right now, cos you doubted that maybe a chunk of the moon was gonna fall through the roof, that wouldn't be a reasonable doubt. Okay, you win that one. Now can we all go to bed? The mooring line. Doesn't that tell you something?
BURKE LATHAM: There's a chance of everything. But you add a chance from here and a chance from there, the world ain't made a coincidences only.
EDITH TWARDZIK: Look, if he gave Carl a battery like he said, he'd only a had one left. Not two.
ROGER PORTER: Alex, stop arguin' just to argue. You can see what really happened, same as us. Isn't that what we're supposed to do is tell the actual truth? My God, Carl died, here.
BURKE LATHAM: Been six hours. You sayin' there's a way to go slower?
NELS: Well. It's imaginative.
NELS: .I'll give you that.
ISHMAEL: It's the way it happened, I know it is.
NELS: No, you don't.
NELS: That report. About the freighter? You didn't find that tonight, did you?
NELS: You went right to the cell. Then to the boat. Then here. How long did you know about the freighter? One day.
NELS: This tastes horrible, hmmn?
ISHMAEL: You're wondering why I held it.
NELS: I'm wondering how the judge is gonna like my waking up his old bones. in the middle of the night.
NELS: Your daddy. Was quite a feller.
ISHMAEL: Yes, he was.
NELS: He's looking down. And he's not thinking 'bout the man you were yesterday. He's proud of the man you are tonight. That's what counts.
ISHMAEL: To my father. Everything counts.
NELS: What if I told you he once said to me.don't matter the road we take. Just so we get there. Then you'd be lying.
NELS: Doesn't make me wrong.
ISHMAEL: Well. It shows the prosecutor was wrong. It was Carl's boat that was dead in the water. Or he'd never have put up the lantern.
NELS: Now you believe there were lanterns when defendant arrived. One in Carl's hand. The second lashed to the mast.
ISHMAEL: That's what Mr. Miyamoto reported, and he'd have no reason to lie. He couldn't know that it would help his case.
NELS: Well, why does it?
ISHMAEL: Because the second lantern, the one on the mast. Was never found. So we have to ask.
ISHMAEL: .where did it go?
ISHMAEL: Maybe it went. Where Carl went. Over the side.
HOOKS: Objection! Speculation.
NELS: Your Honor, speculation. Including Mr. Hooks' dramaturgy about the defendant issuing a false distress call.
HOOKS: Tht was summation, Your H. Overruled, Alvin. Let's hear this, hmmn?
NELS: So how does this fit with what you told us at the start? The freighter that plowed through Ship Channel Bank.
ISHMAEL: That's when he fell.
NELS: Ishmael settles in. Here we go.
ISHMAEL: Miyamoto gave him the battery, and left. Carl's boat was running, he goes back to fishing. But at some point, he thinks of the lantern.
NELS: Still lashed to the mast.
ISHMAEL: He figures a perfectly good lantern could get banged around up there. So he climbs up. To cut it down.
NELS: Just as the freighter comes through? Isn't that quite a coincidence?
ISHMAEL: Coincidences happen. You run a yellow light just as a car comes out of nowhere. Split-second tragedy happens every day. Or maybe.
NELS: Maybe Carl picks up something about the freighter on his radio, which is now working. Same report Milholland heard. And that makes him get the lantern fast. Before the freighter's wake can bang it around.
ISHMAEL: Maybe Carl picks up something about the freighter on his radio, which is now working. Same report Milholland heard. And that makes him get the lantern fast. Before the freighter's wake can bang it around.
NELS: But you have climbed up earlier.
ISHMAEL: Then where's the lantern? And where's the knife?
NELS: The knife. What knife?
ISHMAEL: Coroner found an empty knife sheath on Carl's belt. But they never found the knife.
ISHMAEL: He climbs up. His hand wound still bleeding. That's the blood I found on the mast. And the twine. freighter's wake hits, the boat rolls hard, his bloody hand slips. tracing blood along the mast.
ISHMAEL: freighter's wake hits, the boat rolls hard, his bloody hand slips. tracing blood along the mast.
ISHMAEL: He falls. The lantern, the knife, go into the water. Same as Carl.
ISHMAEL: And inside the cabin, a coffee cup falls off the counter.
ISHMAEL: But there's no one around. To pick it up.
NELS: Still a coincidence. Timing and all.
ISHMAEL: The freighter started through at 1:42. The sea water seeped into Carl's watch and stopped it. At 1:47. Still and all. Carl was a strong swimmer, he m.
NELS: Still and all. Carl was a strong swimmer, he m.
ISHMAEL: He hit his head. On the way in. You think so?
NELS: You think so?
ISHMAEL: The sheriff and the deputy and I inspected the deck closely. We found a small fracture in the wood of the gunnel. Just below the mast.
NELS: Well, anything coulda caused that.
ISHMAEL: Anything. That had a blond hair.
NELS: Request introduction of Exhibit 18. One single blond hair. Which Sheriff Moran dug out of that fracture. Below the mast. Of Carl Heine's boat. We will call Sheriff Moran, who will confirm this. And Coroner Whaley to testify that the damage to the gunnel is of a size and nature not inconsistent with the deceased's skull fracture.
NELS: We will call Sheriff Moran, who will confirm this. And Coroner Whaley to testify that the damage to the gunnel is of a size and nature not inconsistent with the deceased's skull fracture.
NELS: But for now. Your witness.
HOOKS: I have to start reading your paper more closely. You're quite a storyteller. Thank you. Coming from the man who wrote, 'But here, adrift in the fog, I plead for your help'.that's quite a compliment.
HOOKS: right. For your little story to fly. I mean, a blond hair could be on that gunnel for a lot of reasons.
ISHMAEL: I'm sorry, was there a question in there?
HOOKS: Well, the freighter. The twine. The blood. The knife. The cup. The watch. The second battery. The phantom lantern. The fishing gaff. The cracked gunnel. The skull wound. The blond hair. That's eleven things.
ISHMAEL: Hooks smiles.
HOOKS: I stand corrected, sir. And you have a neat explanation for every one of them.
HOOKS: And since you confess this is all pure guesswork. What is your expertise, sir, are you a detective of sorts?
ISHMAEL: My expertise. Is that I'm a
ISHMAEL: And journalism. Is balance. Finding the facts folks need to know.
ISHMAEL: Then putting them together. So truth is revealed.
HOOKS: But isn't the several other ways to explain each of these twelve pieces.
ISHMAEL: Oh, yes.
ISHMAEL: them all. And since they This is the only explanation that's the truth.
ISHMAEL: And since they This is the only explanation that's the truth.
HOOKS: Your line of work. You must meet a lot of men play fast and loose with the truth.
ISHMAEL: Like you couldn't believe.
HOOKS: Well, the defendant is a liar. He's confessed that much. And his explanation is.he was afraid.
HOOKS: Afraid that the good folks of this jury. Would be too stupid to understand. Too prejudiced to be fair.
HOOKS: You buy that? I think he was greedy.
HOOKS: He didn't want to lose any more.
ISHMAEL: He didn't want to lose any more.
ISHMAEL: He'd lost a lot in the war, you see. I had sent him away. To a concentration camp. But a nice one. Far less brutal than the Nazis. Because I'm a civilized person.
HOOKS: I asked you a question, you're writing a tract, h.
ISHMAEL: That's how journalists. Answer
ISHMAEL: May I answer the question, Your Honor? Anout the defendant's motivation to lie?
JUDGE: I wouldn't miss it for the world, son. Now, you say you sent the defendant to Manzanar?
ISHMAEL: I didn't say. I did it alone.
ISHMAEL: So there he was. His father lost his health there, finally died. They lost more than Etta Heine's seven acres. They lost their liberty, their dignity. Their ideals about this country.
ISHMAEL: They lost their trust in us. We had treated them worse than animals. How would we now see tham. As human
ISHMAEL: This man lost a lot in the war. He didn't want now to lose his babies. Or the woman who loves him.
ISHMAEL: And my expertise in this, sir. Is that I lost a lot in the war myself.
ISHMAEL: And the fact that I am the only witness. Who placed his right hand upon the Holy Bible. Is the least of it, sir. I assure you of that. Well, sir. I hate to spoil the soliloquy, I truly do. But the fact is.you are not on trial here. Nor is Judge Fielding, or myself. Nor the good people of this jury. For events that took place twelve years ago.
HOOKS: Well, sir. I hate to spoil the soliloquy, I truly do. But the fact is.you are not on trial here. Nor is Judge Fielding, or myself. Nor the good people of this jury. For events that took place twelve years ago.
HOOKS: And I wouldn't blame these good people if they were a mite resent- ful. At a tactic that insults their intelligence.
ISHMAEL: That's curious. I was to their intelligence.
HOOKS: word of all your fancy story?
ISHMAEL: No, sir, I can't. Not beyond a reasonable doubt.
ISHMAEL: It's fortunate that the man who needs to prove his fancy story. Beyond a reasonable doubt. Is someone else.
ISHMAEL: I'm sorry, Mr. Hooks. I apologize for my tone. This is not a contest. Between you and me.
ISHMAEL: For it is not. As Mr. Gudmundsson so wisely put it. A small trial. In a small place.
ISHMAEL: I lost more in that war than anyone will ever know. So did a lot of folks. And what we got back in return.
ISHMAEL: .was a country. Where a man was innocent. Until we proved him guilty.
ISHMAEL: Whether we all got cheated. We're about to find out.
NELS: .you were adequate.
NELS: I could make a few quibbles, but I am loathe to hurt your feelings.
ISHMAEL: I'll take two. One for later. She is simply. Beautiful.
NELS: I'll take two. One for later. She is simply. Beautiful.
ISHMAEL: I've always thought so.
NELS: If I whistle. Those boys'll see you, and come runnin'. You're the story today.
ISHMAEL: You ever been strangled by a single hand?
NELS: Naw, I've seen what that can do to a pack of cigarettes.
ISHMAEL: Better take three.
ISHMAEL: Maybe they'll keep us waiting. Maybe they won't.
NELS: Prejudice is like any obsession. There's a reason why we can't let go. Even when we want to.
NELS: There's a reason why we can't let go. Even when we want to.
ISHMAEL: A reason. We don't want to.
NELS: Hate or love. It works the same.
ISHMAEL: Your client's wife ever mention? We go way ba. Her mother. May have said
ISHMAEL: We don't let go, you s.
NELS: It's a rare thing. Takes a turning point.
NELS: You gave this jury three chances. To turn.
NELS: That was one. I caught some of 'em fluttering, waking up, on that.
NELS: Manzanar, and you didn't do it alone. I liked that one, they didn't. No surprise.
NELS: Last. You gave your arm. To buy this woman back her husband. Are they gonna cheat you out of that?
NELS: Some let go, some don't. Where did you? Hooks called her deceitful. And I knew she wasn't.
ISHMAEL: She was an honest person. Doing the best she could.
NELS: You couldn't let her. Be
NELS: When this verdict is read. She may look for your face.
NELS: Here's what she needs to see: This is nothing. We win it on appeal.
ISHMAEL: It'll be there.
HAROLD JENSEN: We have, Your Honor. Will the bailiff please bring the verdict to the bench. Will the defendant please rise.
JUDGE: Will the bailiff please bring the verdict to the bench. Will the defendant please rise.
JUDGE: This is your verdict, so say you all?
JUDGE: This Court thanks you for the good work you have done under difficult circumstances.
JUDGE: Go home, son. God bless.
REPORTER #1: And how about the jury? You had confidence they'd see justice done?
KABUO: Oh, sure. These are our neighbors, you know. They've got good hearts. We could see they were following the evidence real close.
KABUO: We're just grateful to every one of them.
REPORTER #2: And you ma'am? You felt the same as your husband, I expect?
HATSUE: Honestly, no. I felt my husband would be found guilty. Unless proven innocent.
HATSUE: And Mr. Chambers did that.
REPORTER #3: .can we get some background on your handsome family? I understand you two were childhood sweethearts. Well, no sir, not exactly. We met in the Manzanar camp, you see, so I guess that was the most beautiful place I've ever been.
KABUO: Well, no sir, not exactly. We met in the Manzanar camp, you see, so I guess that was the most beautiful place I've ever been.
KABUO: No, her first love was another
REPORTER #4: It all sounds very romantic, ma'am. Falling in love under those circumstances.
HATSUE: He went off to the Army, right from Manzanar. And that last night, we danced alone in the
