SOLARIS: Steven Soderbergh A MAN'S VOICE ( beat )
A MAN: 40s, lies on his side in bed, staring at us. He has not been sleeping. In fact, judging from his distant expression, he has not slept in ages.
THE MAN: Stops walking and stares at the car, which seems ominously The car then reverses direction and begins to move toward the Man, who remains motionless. When the car is alongside him, a darkened window turns transparent and we see a WELL-DRESSED BUREAUCRAT in the rear seat. His demeanor is pleasant and professional.
GIBARIAN: We take off into the cosmos, ready for anything: solitude, hardship, exhaustion, death. We're proud of ourselves, in a way. But our enthusiasm is a sham. We don't want to conquer the cosmos we want to extend the boundaries of Earth to the cosmos. We are only seeking Man. We don't want Other Worlds. We want mirrors. Maybe we don't need to know what it is, or why. Maybe just knowing that it is should be enough.
KELVIN: in the same capsule, a month later. He is asleep.
KELVIN: in the same capsule, two months later. He is dictating some coordinates to Earth. He absently scratches his heavy growth of beard.
KELVIN: two months later still. He is looking out his small, rectangular window, and for the fist time we cut around to see the approaching planet: SOLARIS. Kelvin stares at it, hypnotized. It has a translucent quality, as though it is lit from within, and its undulating, ocean-like surface slowly changes colors. Kelvin's attention is diverted as an orbiting ship, the PROMETHEUS, edges into frame.
KELVIN: Prometheus, this is Athena 7, on approach, do you read me? Prometheus, this is Athena 7, on approach, do you read me?
VIDEO: Gibarian addressing the camera. He appears to be lucid, but extremely fatigued.
GIBARIAN: Hi, Chris. I'm so glad you came. I still have a little time, and I want to tell you something. To warn you. By now you know about me, or if you don't, get Snow or Sartorius to tell you; it doesn't I didn't lose my mind. You should be able to tell from this video. I'm not mad. If it happens to you, remember that it isn't madness. You should know, I'm in favor of destroying Solaris. I know that's. illegal. And unethical. And irresponsible. But it's the only way to make it stop.
GIBARIAN: ( addressing whoever made Cut that out. Do you hear me?
KELVIN: Snow. Didn't you hear me radio? I'm Kelvin.
SNOW: Yes. We heard.
KELVIN: What's wrong? What happened to He's dead.
SNOW: He's dead.
KELVIN: A beat.
SNOW: Snow exhales, then looks up as though he's remembered A long beat as Kelvin stares at Snow.
SNOW: You didn't bring any chocolate, did I love chocolate. I realized just yesterday how much I love it. I thought maybe, if they let you bring personal effects, you might have snuck some through, because. well, I've been thinking about it.
KELVIN: ( musing ) I love chocolate. I realized just yesterday how much I love it. ( beat, then he recovers ) I thought maybe, if they let you bring personal effects, you might have snuck some through, because. well, I've been thinking about it.
SNOW: ( musing ) I love chocolate. I realized just yesterday how much I love it. ( beat, then he recovers ) I thought maybe, if they let you bring personal effects, you might have snuck some through, because. well, I've been thinking about it.
KELVIN: What happened here?
SNOW: I can't talk just now. I'm too Where's Sartorius?
KELVIN: Where's Sartorius?
SNOW: In his lab. He won't let you in.
KELVIN: ( leaving ) He'll let me in.
SNOW: Kelvin, if you see anything
SNOW: . try to stay calm.
KELVIN: Let me in.
SARTORIUS: ( inside, muffled ) You have to give me your word you won't come in. Then I'll come out.
KELVIN: All right.
KELVIN: What happened to Gibarian?
SARTORIUS: Didn't you talk to Snow?
KELVIN: I want to hear your version.
SARTORIUS: ( incredulous ) Who, here, could possibly care what you want? At best, you're Employee of the Month for the highest bidder in the Solaris auction. They have no idea what's going on up here. They've never even been in space. And I'm supposed to listen to you?
KELVIN: I am here to recover this mission, report my findings, and make a recommendation. Now: What happened to him?
SARTORIUS: The same thing that could happen to any of us.
KELVIN: Where's his body?
SARTORIUS: In the lab. With her, probably.
KELVIN: Her? Who are you talking about?
SARTORIUS: His last wish was to be buried on Earth. In dirt, he said. "I want to buried in dirt." What a clown.
KELVIN: They shouldn't let people like you into space.
SARTORIUS: Just so you know: I'm not going back until I understand what it is. I am going to figure out what it is, make it stop, and then I will go home.
KELVIN: We're done. Oh, I should tell you, I don't trust Snow. There's something wrong with him.
SARTORIUS: We're done. Oh, I should tell you, I don't trust Snow. There's something wrong with him.
KELVIN: Is there anybody else here?
SNOW: ( sits up a little ) Why, who did you see?
KELVIN: Gibarian warned me. He left me a Who was it?
SNOW: Who was it?
KELVIN: She was real. Where did she come
KELVIN: Tell me. I won't think you're Oh, that's a relief.
SNOW: Oh, that's a relief.
KELVIN: Where did she come from?
SNOW: How much sleep do you need?
KELVIN: How much sleep?
SNOW: How long can you go without sleep?
KELVIN: That depends.
SNOW: Well, when you do go to sleep: barricade your door.
KELVIN: Interviews with the surviving members and a perusal of the deceased's personal effects indicate he was suffering from severe depression with psychotic features, along with bouts of hypomania, dementia, delirium, and primary insomnia. All of these symptoms, combined with a profound sense of isolation, are commonly found in studies of low stimulation environments, particularly long range space travel. Snow and Sartorius show indications of depression, including dysthymic and bipolar I; a variety of stress disorders, including acute and posttraumatic; and suggestions of agoraphobia, obsessive/compulsive disorder, and hypersomnia. I emphasize these are preliminary opinions on my part. I will attempt to convince Snow and Sartorius to return to Earth, but as they currently view me as an intruder of sorts, this may take some time.
ANOTHER ANGLE: On Kelvin, asleep.
ANOTHER ANGLE: On Kelvin, still asleep. Then:
REVERSE ANGLE: Kelvin is the person she has locked eyes with on the TRAIN. He is younger here; not just in age, but in spirit. The contrast with his older self is striking.
KELVIN: Awakens, blinks, and slowly recognizes her. If he is not entirely surprised it is because he has obviously dreamed of Rheya before. He looks at her, simply.
RHEYA: Stands and makes her way to Kelvin. Without hesitation she kisses him and they begin to explore each other and we see all of it happen and two things are obvious: first, they have done this before, and two: they haven't done it in some time.
KELVIN: Oh, God. I'm awake.
RHEYA: He looks at her.
KELVIN: Where did you come from?
KELVIN: How are you here?
RHEYA: How do you mean? Chris, what's wrong?
RHEYA: I love you. Do you love me?
RHEYA: Do you love me?
KELVIN: A beat.
KELVIN: I need to see Snow.
RHEYA: I'll go with you.
KELVIN: ( rising ) I'll just be a minute.
RHEYA: I don't know. I can't be alone.
KELVIN: I don't know. I can't be alone.
RHEYA: I don't know. I can't be alone.
KELVIN: I'll be right back.
KELVIN: All right. All right. Here.
RHEYA: What are they?
KELVIN: To calm your anxiety.
RHEYA: To calm my anxiety.
RHEYA: We're taking a flight?
KELVIN: He opens the door of a pod and indicates for her to enter. She is unsure.
KELVIN: Go ahead. I'll close the door behind me.
KELVIN: In agony as he watches a real-time, beat-by-beat brand of technological murder take place: Rheya's pod is pushed off into space.
RHEYA: Her face contorted in confusion, watches through the pod window as the docking bay doors close in front of her with a brutal finality.
KELVIN: collapses to the ground, shattered.
SNOW: Was her breakfast conversation that Shut up.
KELVIN: Shut up.
SNOW: I told you, try to stay calm. You're supposed to be the psychologist of the bunch.
KELVIN: What was it?
SNOW: Personally, I think it's God. At least, it fits my definition.
KELVIN: And professionally?
SNOW: I'm not sure. It started with Gibarian. He locked himself in his room and refused to talk except through a crack in the door. He covered the video lens. Obviously we thought he was having a nervous breakdown. I don't know why he didn't tell us he had somebody in there. By this time, we were getting visitors, too. He was desperately trying to figure it out. Day and night. Who was she?
KELVIN: My wife.
SNOW: Kelvin nods.
SNOW: She has materialized from your memory of her. What was her name?
KELVIN: It started about three months ago. Right after the government sold the expedition. We were ready to go Will she come back?
SNOW: It started about three months ago. Right after the government sold the expedition. We were ready to go Will she come back?
KELVIN: Will she come back?
SNOW: I wish you'd told me.
KELVIN: I wish you'd told me.
SNOW: Told you what?
SNOW: What will you say?
KELVIN: To who?
SNOW: What are you going to report back to Earth?
KELVIN: I don't know.
SNOW: An enormous amount of money changed hands to get control of this project. We are in little danger of being left alone for long. You'll need to do something. Otherwise they'll be sending someone out to recover you.
KELVIN: Gibarian said he thinks Solaris should be destroyed.
SNOW: That's ludicrous. This is contact. We have found God. The only issue is figuring out how to prove this in a way that will make sense back on Earth. So how will we describe it, if we choose to describe it at
GIBARIAN: A pre-biological colloidal envelope, possibly exceeding terrestrial structures in complexity; a plasmic mechanism. Probably without life as we conceive it, but capable of performing functional activities on an astronomic scale. My view is that Solaris has reached, in a single bound, the "homeostatic ocean" stage without passing through stages of terrestrial evolution. I think it bypassed cellular development altogether. It hasn't taken endless eons to adapt itself to its environment, but in fact dominated its environment immediately. From the moment it existed, it was the most superior element in the Universe. And now it passes the time doing extravagant theoretical thinking about the Universe, with us as the
GIBARIAN: It's engaged in a never-ending process of transformation; an ontological autometamorphosis, begging the question: Can thought exist separately from It's God.
SNOW: It's God.
SARTORIUS: I don't care what it is, we need to figure out how to make it stop.
GIBARIAN: Nelson, we have the opportunity
SARTORIUS: What if this thing follows us back to Earth? What if what's happening here started happening on Earth, on a mass scale? Don't you see that as a problem? I think it's a serious mistake to assume it's benign. For all we know it's driving us crazy so it can watch us kill each other.
SNOW: We're not even sure it will let us
ANOTHER VIDEO: This time, Gibarian alone. Near the end.
GIBARIAN: Maybe it's stuck. Maybe its power isn't that God-like. I mean, we have God-like power relative to an insect, but that doesn't mean we can move the Earth around at will. Maybe it's like a spider web, waiting for something to show up. We intercepted some brief fragments of what must be an everlasting monologue with itself. Of course it was beyond our understanding. I've come to hate it here. There's only one way out of its reach, for us. Humans.
GIBARIAN: ( from a video ) I thought I'd been behaving normally, rationally. But a sign of insanity is the inability to think about more than one thing. So if I am consumed by the idea that I am insane and can't think of anything else, then I am insane. ( beat, smiles ) You ask questions at the end of your life, the sort of questions people who are content don't ask. ( beat ) Maybe life just can't be solved.
KELVIN: I want you inside me right now.
RHEYA: I want you inside me right now.
KELVIN: "And Death Shall Have No Dominion".
RHEYA: Poem. Dylan Thomas. I thought of it when I saw you on the train.
KELVIN: Poem. Dylan Thomas. I thought of it when I saw you on the train.
RHEYA: My Thomas is a little rusty.
RHEYA: Not a very happy poem.
KELVIN: You didn't look very happy.
RHEYA: I wasn't.
KELVIN: And tonight?
RHEYA: He nods, and they smile. They seem to be rooting for each other. After an extended pleasurable moment, Rheya leans over and whispers in his ear. He listens, then leans back and looks at her.
KELVIN: That's good to know.
RHEYA: You want to fuck her?
KELVIN: Stop it.
RHEYA: You behave as though you want to fuck her.
KELVIN: Rheya. Not here.
RHEYA: And I just want to know if I'm crazy or not if what I think is happening is actually happening. Or am I one of those people, those women, who are blind to what's going on? Who pretend not to see their husband's attention toward another woman?
KELVIN: Let's go home.
RHEYA: You go home.
KELVIN: I am. Please come with me. I don't want to do this here.
RHEYA: You talk like an actor.
RHEYA: I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry.
KELVIN: You're better when you take them.
RHEYA: I know, I know. But still, somehow I don't feel better.
KELVIN: All right. How about I feel better when you take them?
RHEYA: They look at each other and understand; she will take the INT. APARTMENT - MORNING Rheya, on the floor, dead. Her hand outstretched, a repeat of an image we saw earlier. Rain streaks the kitchen window. The bottle of pills nearby.
KELVIN: What do you remember?
RHEYA: What do you mean?
KELVIN: Do you remember Beethoven? The Beatles? Movies, books, restaurants, friends?
RHEYA: ( thinking ) Yes. But not until you mentioned them. As soon as you said those things, I remembered them. And they have associations that make me think of other things I remember. It's like filling up.
RHEYA: Is it a planet?
KELVIN: Not exactly. It exists in a continuum that wasn't proven until ten years ago, a higher mathematical dimension superimposed on top of the Universe. An infinite number of them, in fact. It was a violation of all of our various laws regarding the Universe, Space, or Space-Time. It was completely counter-intuitive. We had to unlearn everything.
RHEYA: Is it intelligent?
KELVIN: Intelligent beyond our Then it's God, right?
RHEYA: Then it's God, right?
KELVIN: It's something.
RHEYA: You still don't believe in God?
KELVIN: The whole idea of God was dreamed up by a silly animal with a small brain called Man. Even the limits we put on it are human limits. It can do this, it can do that! It designs, it creates!
RHEYA: Even a God that wasn't active, that just created something and stood back and watched?
KELVIN: You're talking about a man in a white beard again. You're ascribing human characteristics to something that isn't human. Human beings look for causes and patterns. How could we know what Solaris is up to, if anything?
RHEYA: But what if Solaris is what there was before The Big Bang?
KELVIN: As I said, it is beyond our As I said, then it's God, right?
RHEYA: As I said, then it's God, right?
RHEYA: Why are we talking about this shit when we could be fucking?
SNOW: Kelvin, you awake?
KELVIN: What is it?
SNOW: Can you meet me and Sartorius on B deck in an hour?
KELVIN: Just a little strategy session. But in person this time.
SNOW: Just a little strategy session. But in person this time.
KELVIN: All right?
RHEYA: Is revealed, covered in blood. She has completely torn the inside of the cabin door apart and has badly injured herself in the process.
KELVIN: Confused, she looks up at him as he takes her in his arms and carries her to the bed.
RHEYA: What happened?
KELVIN: You were trying to break down the door. Do you know why?
RHEYA: When I saw you were gone I got
RHEYA: Chris, what's wrong with me?
RHEYA: Am I all right?
KELVIN: CUT TO:
SNOW: He won't do it.
SARTORIUS: Why do you say that?
SNOW: He won't. This is my wife, Rheya.
KELVIN: This is my wife, Rheya.
SARTORIUS: We thought you'd be alone. We want to talk about.
SNOW: We want to talk freely.
KELVIN: Go ahead.
SARTORIUS: I suggest we pool our knowledge regarding the. visitors. We can express whatever questions or conclusions we might have. share information about our various. experiments. Agreed?
SARTORIUS: I would like to start with motivation. Why are they here?
SARTORIUS: They are not autonomous individuals and they're not actual persons. They are projections materializing from our minds, based on a given It's an experiment.
SNOW: It's an experiment.
KELVIN: No. There's no behavior She reappeared exactly as she had The same vulnerabilities?
SARTORIUS: She reappeared exactly as she had The same vulnerabilities?
SNOW: The same vulnerabilities?
SARTORIUS: A recoil, with no compensating And when a given situation no longer corresponds to the normal faculties of the. original, the visitor suffers some sort of disconnected consciousness.
SNOW: And when a given situation no longer corresponds to the normal faculties of the. original, the visitor suffers some sort of disconnected consciousness.
SARTORIUS: Followed by non-human Are the actions of Solaris Is it being deliberately cruel, you mean? I don't think so.
SNOW: Are the actions of Solaris Is it being deliberately cruel, you mean? I don't think so.
KELVIN: Is it being deliberately cruel, you mean? I don't think so.
SNOW: I'm just trying to find an explanation for the continual When you cut yourself pounding the door, did it hurt?
KELVIN: ( to Rheya ) When you cut yourself pounding the door, did it hurt?
RHEYA: ( looks around ) Of course.
SARTORIUS: If they're not learning anything and they're not modifying their behavior, why do they come back?
SNOW: It's like they're plugged into a game, which goes around and around, endlessly repeating itself.
KELVIN: Where've you been?
RHEYA: I been thinking about how much I hate you.
RHEYA: I would have these I don't know how to describe them visions, when I was younger. Maybe not visions, but like these waking dream states. Time would just collapse, I would be inside time. I would stare at a second hand on a clock until it stopped. Freaky How old were you?
KELVIN: How old were you?
RHEYA: Seven, eight. So one day my mother catches me sort of staring off into space, and she asks me what I'm doing, and I start trying to explain to her, about this state that I can put myself in, and this look comes over her face.
KELVIN: What kind of look?
RHEYA: Scared. No, not scared. Wary. Like I was something to be. her guard went up. I was a threat. Now I know why. She was afraid she'd be seen. That I would see her for the self-obsessed neurotic that she was. I think she thought she had a few more years of being on a pedestal. But that's the cycle, right? I knew a little more than she did, she knew a little more than her mother, and on and I guess that's part of the reason I know. I know. We don't have to talk about that.
KELVIN: I know. I know. We don't have to talk about that.
RHEYA: I remember days of just thinking about you.
RHEYA: Thinking what you were doing and saying, just being consumed by thinking of you. I loved it so much, that feeling.
KELVIN: I did too.
KELVIN: I used to watch you undress.
KELVIN: I never tired of watching you undress. Every time, it was exciting. Right until. to the
RHEYA: What happened to us, exactly?
KELVIN: You don't know?
RHEYA: I remember. something burning. Coffee burning.
RHEYA: You found me?
KELVIN: I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
RHEYA: Why did you say those things?
KELVIN: I don't know. I couldn't understand why you didn't tell me.
KELVIN: When you said you wouldn't make it. I didn't believe you. Or I didn't take you seriously, which is
KELVIN: I should have believed you.
RHEYA: I can't help feeling that I'm cheating when I take them.
KELVIN: It's genetics. You know this. You know where it comes from. There is nothing wrong with uncrossing a few crossed wires.
SNOW: You're unnerved because you've spent your whole life thinking nobody is looking over you, and suddenly your subconscious is an open book. We are, for the first time, experiencing changes in natural reality by a force not our own. That proves that
KELVIN: we are not sure of that. We are not sure we aren't all If God is beyond our comprehension, and she is here for reasons that can't be understood, isn't God here?
SNOW: If God is beyond our comprehension, and she is here for reasons that can't be understood, isn't God here?
KELVIN: Not necessarily.
SNOW: Stop equivocating! Unbelievable, how you equivocate! You, the atheist, you're more dogmatic than any holy person I've ever seen! This is happening, Kevin. Wake up.
KELVIN: Consciousness is enough, that's all I've saying. Consciousness should be enough for anybody.
SNOW: Who are you trying to convince?
SNOW: It will end badly. As inevitably as the rising of a bubble.
SNOW: Let's all meet tomorrow. Sartorius has some new ideas, about making it
RHEYA: Do you have any idea how much I like fucking you?
KELVIN: I think so.
RHEYA: Good. Because I want you to know. I really like fucking you. I like that too.
RHEYA: I like that too.
RHEYA: ( smiles, teasing ) You know, I've decided: I'm just gonna believe what you believe about this whole Solaris thing, it'll make life so much easier; the little wife agreeing with her big, strong husband. You must get such a headache thinking about those Great Big Problems all day.
RHEYA: So, Chris, seriously, aren't you afraid you're going to get fired?
RHEYA: You sure say "God" a lot when we're doing it.
KELVIN: I know. I'm putting that in my next report.
RHEYA: Right. The report. Report and
RHEYA: What does Snow think you should do?
KELVIN: Snow thinks we shouldn't leave until we figure out a way to document it, to prove its existence to the planet Earth. This is hilarious: He thinks it's God, but he wants it to sit still for a photograph so he can show the folks back home.
RHEYA: Sartorius wants to destroy it.
KELVIN: Well. He doesn't think it's God, but for different reasons than me. He's thinking: If I can figure out how to make it stop, than I am smarter than it is, and therefore it cannot be God.
RHEYA: He has a point.
KELVIN: He does have a point. That's just not the way I'd like to see it You feel sorry for Solaris, or for It's a violent response to something we haven't figured out. Don't let the cowardly demeanor fool you: He is ruthless. Unblinking in his prejudice.
RHEYA: You feel sorry for Solaris, or for It's a violent response to something we haven't figured out. Don't let the cowardly demeanor fool you: He is ruthless. Unblinking in his prejudice.
KELVIN: It's a violent response to something we haven't figured out. Don't let the cowardly demeanor fool you: He is ruthless. Unblinking in his prejudice.
RHEYA: It was obvious from the way he first looked at me.
RHEYA: Do I really feel like. I am.?
KELVIN: Yes. Yes.
RHEYA: I'm glad.
KELVIN: Everything you pursue, you end up becoming disinterested in. The fact that you're good at everything you try makes it worse. You have a degree in animal science, you could be a terrific vet. You drifted into writing and turned out to be a perceptive journalist. Then it was politics, which seemed best of all, you had an actual gift for understanding the best pattern for a group of people to be arranged for you to achieve your goal. And they didn't even know they were being arranged. But you got bored with it, like you do with
KELVIN: I don't know what it's really like, to not know what you want to do. To not have anything that you love to do more than anything else.
RHEYA: ( sarcastic ) Imagine my frustration.
KELVIN: What's wrong.
RHEYA: You don't love me.
KELVIN: A beat. She looks down.
RHEYA: I have to talk to you. I. I don't know where I came from. Do you know?
RHEYA: If you know but can't tell me now. will you ever be able to? What are you talking about?
KELVIN: What are you talking about?
RHEYA: That I am not Rheya. That Rheya died. Killed herself. I'm
KELVIN: Who have you been talking to?
RHEYA: ( no reason to lie ) When? When I'm asleep?
KELVIN: When? When I'm asleep?
KELVIN: I'm sure there are worse people to talk to, but I don't know who they I'm just trying to understand what's going on.
RHEYA: I'm just trying to understand what's going on.
RHEYA: How have you lived the last ten years? Did you love anyone?
RHEYA: Did you think about me?
RHEYA: But we fought.
KELVIN: Yes. Especially toward the end.
RHEYA: Why did she do it?
KELVIN: You. she said I didn't love her.
RHEYA: Was she right?
KELVIN: No. I love you.
RHEYA: ( reflexive, but genuine ) I love you, too.
KELVIN: Can you sleep?
RHEYA: I don't think do. It's not sleep; it's something else. It's all around me.
KELVIN: Those are dreams.
SNOW: Gibarian was under enormous
SARTORIUS: Gibarian was helpless. It's very simple: Man created the science that resulted in the discovery of Solaris, and the ship that brought us here.
KELVIN: Meaning Man can do whatever the fuck it wants?
SARTORIUS: That's fantastic.
KELVIN: That's fantastic.
SARTORIUS: Why did you agree to come here?
SARTORIUS: Too tired to answer?
SARTORIUS: I'll bet. Is this what they sent you here to do? You've lost it, you've gone native.
RHEYA: ( to Sartorius ) You're the coward.
KELVIN: Don't debate him; he'll say I'm just as human as you. I see, I hear, I touch, and I feel just like you do.
RHEYA: ( still, to Sartorius ) I'm just as human as you. I see, I hear, I touch, and I feel just like you do.
SARTORIUS: Prove it.
RHEYA: These "guests" are a part of you, of your subconscious. Chris loves YOU ARE NOT HUMAN! Try to understand that if you can understand anything!
SARTORIUS: YOU ARE NOT HUMAN! Try to understand that if you can understand anything!
KELVIN: Get out of here.
SARTORIUS: Rheya is dead. She's a copy. A facsimile. And she's seducing you all over again. You're sick. You think of fucking her as research for humanity. It's just fucking.
SARTORIUS: There's nothing grandiose about it. You've jumped out of a plane and you're trying to sew a parachute together while you fall.
SARTORIUS: It'd be hilarious if it weren't so damn sad.
SNOW: We didn't even get to hear his new
SNOW: I'm not feeling well.
SNOW: We can liquidate the station. Take the Athena back.
KELVIN: Of course, when we return, we'll be regarded as lunatics if we tell the We'll chalk it up to isolation, collective derangement.
SNOW: Of course, when we return, we'll be regarded as lunatics if we tell the We'll chalk it up to isolation, collective derangement.
KELVIN: I've never heard you express any desire to leave before now. Why Well, I think we're reaching the point of diminishing returns here, right? Certainly it's learning more about us than we'll ever learn about it.
SNOW: Well, I think we're reaching the point of diminishing returns here, right? Certainly it's learning more about us than we'll ever learn about it.
KELVIN: But why is it doing what it's doing? Given it's resources, it could have done anything. Presented me with your double, and you with mine.
SNOW: Perhaps it did.
KELVIN: Human beings can die.
SNOW: But they are human. They certainly become human with incredible speed. First they're like they were in our memory, but then they fill in on their own. DNA doesn't determine the hundreds of trillions of connections that occur in the brain, it's not dense enough. They build up with experience.
KELVIN: They come when you sleep.
SNOW: That's right. And we all have to sleep, eventually.
RHEYA: You don't want me.
KELVIN: That's what you were saying. I heard what you were saying.
RHEYA: That's what you were saying. I heard what you were saying.
KELVIN: For a reason that neither of us understand, you are forced to stay near me. That's all I know right I have these strange thoughts, I don't know where they come from. I can't explain it.
RHEYA: I have these strange thoughts, I don't know where they come from. I can't explain it.
KELVIN: Neither can I. Not any of it. There's no reference point for what's going on; it's never happened before. It's a clean break in the fabric of the Universe; a gap. There is nothing to do but experience it, moment-to- moment, and not let it destroy us.
RHEYA: But that's what happened before.
KELVIN: Not this time.
RHEYA: Do you want to stay here?
KELVIN: Do you?
RHEYA: If you're here.
KELVIN: Leave the light off.
GIBARIAN: Leave the light off.
GIBARIAN: I wish you'd come a little sooner. I might not have had to kill
GIBARIAN: You think you're dreaming me, like you dream her. Understand something: I am the real Gibarian. Just a new incarnation.
KELVIN: What do you want?
GIBARIAN: You're being tricked. Sartorius picked a fight with you to avoid telling you about his idea for getting rid of the visitors. He's figured out they're made of subatomic particles called neutrinos, and he's going to create a negative neutrino field. Twenty four hours a day, until they're back on Earth.
KELVIN: Can it work?
GIBARIAN: It can. Ordinary matter, like ours? Not affected. Everything else, disintegrates.
GIBARIAN: What I'm saying is: Don't trust anyone. Find yourself a weapon of some sort.
KELVIN: I can trust Rheya.
GIBARIAN: You'll end up like me.
KELVIN: You're not Gibarian.
GIBARIAN: No? Who am I, then?
KELVIN: A puppet.
GIBARIAN: And you're not? Maybe you're my puppet. But like all puppets, you think you're actually human. It's The Puppet's Dream. Wondering if they're human!
KELVIN: wakes up, gulping air. Rheya, startled:
RHEYA: What's wrong?
KELVIN: Gibarian. He was here.
RHEYA: You said he was dead.
KELVIN: He is. But he was here.
KELVIN: He spoke to me.
KELVIN: Are you going to take them?
RHEYA: What's happening to us?
KELVIN: It's all right.
RHEYA: Please don't lie. I told you before, I don't know how I came to be here. Whatever you think you can't say to me, I need to hear you say it.
KELVIN: I love you.
RHEYA: Don't. I'm the one at risk here. If we're playing out what happened before, I won't survive.
KELVIN: That won't happen again. We're How can I tell? You've seen both of me. I only know what you're like here. You're all I know. There is no "You" from before.
RHEYA: How can I tell? You've seen both of me. I only know what you're like here. You're all I know. There is no "You" from before.
RHEYA: How could it be so cruel? How could it torture us like this?
KELVIN: I don't think it knows it's torturing us. It's just watching.
SNOW: What happened?
KELVIN: She drank liquid oxygen.
KELVIN: She's dead.
SNOW: She'll come back, don't worry. But then what? My theory is she can only live here, that she will die if she leaves this ship.
SNOW: Why do you think she hasn't suggested that? It's the most obvious solution: Escape. She knows she can't leave here
KELVIN: Get out
SNOW: Oh, this one you love? What about the first one, the one you fucked and then put into a rocket and blasted into space? You didn't love her?
SNOW: What happens if she comes back? Is that polygamy? And even if you could take her home, how would you get her through? You think they're not going to notice her?
SNOW: I never get used to them, these.
RHEYA: What am I? Why can't I die?
RHEYA: I'm not Rheya. You're always known Don't call me that.
KELVIN: Don't call me that.
RHEYA: Don't call me that.
KELVIN: Listen: I don't care about anything but the fact that you are here. You are her, you are Rheya.
RHEYA: I'm disgusting.
KELVIN: You're lying. I'm not human.
RHEYA: You're lying. I'm not human.
KELVIN: Rheya, I am not going back. I'm staying here with you.
RHEYA: Then you'll die.
KELVIN: I want every second I can get with
RHEYA: What will I do, if you die?
RHEYA: Do you think I can get pregnant
KELVIN: We'll know soon enough.
RHEYA: I can't be a mother.
KELVIN: That's good to know.
RHEYA: Don't do this. I am literally begging you not to do this. Chris.
KELVIN: You should have told me.
RHEYA: It wouldn't have made any Thank you.
KELVIN: Thank you.
RHEYA: Chris, I had to. I had to. I didn't think you'd react like this.
KELVIN: Neither did I.
RHEYA: You never said you wanted one.
KELVIN: I never said I didn't.
RHEYA: I can't stay here.
KELVIN: I can't stay here.
RHEYA: Chris, please. Chris, I'm serious. I won't make it.
KELVIN: Then you won't make it.
KELVIN: I came back. You have to know that. I came back that night.
KELVIN: I couldn't make it, either. I'm so sorry.
GIBARIAN: As we saw him before, sitting in the chair. But we didn't hear him say this before:
GIBARIAN: If they succeed, you'll never see her again.
RHEYA: You're afraid of me. I can't do this anymore. I still don't understand. It's not possible.
RHEYA: INT. APARTMENT - DAY Rheya, as Kelvin brushes past her on his way out. She looks INT. KELVIN'S ROOM Rheya and Kelvin.
RHEYA: What do I have to do to stop it?
KELVIN: I want you here.
RHEYA: You're lying.
KELVIN: You exist here. I keep telling That's impossible. I'm not Rheya.
RHEYA: That's impossible. I'm not Rheya.
KELVIN: Who are you, then?
RHEYA: I. I am Rheya. But I am not the woman you loved ten years ago.
KELVIN: Yes, you are
RHEYA: Did you hear what Gibarian said? I'm not a human being. I'm an instrument. I came from your memory and your imagination and I will torture you no matter what. Even if I remain passive. That's when I drank the. I was going mad. It felt like there was no body underneath my skin. There was something else. An illusion. But I could feel my heart beating, and I remembered you tested my blood. Is it like yours?
KELVIN: Yes. I told you. It was exactly like mine.
RHEYA: But then I would be dead now.
KELVIN: Is that really what you want?
RHEYA: I want to stop taking those pills.
KELVIN: I wish you wouldn't.
RHEYA: They do something to me. It's hard to think straight.
KELVIN: I think they help.
RHEYA: I have consciousness, but I am not mortal. Don't you see why I'm going crazy?
KELVIN: You have to remember that I love you, that's all that matters
RHEYA: I can't
KELVIN: It put you here. I'll admit it, it acted like a God and put you here, put you into my consciousness. I was asleep, and it put you into my dream. I saw your mouth. And there you were. Whether you've been sent here to make me happy or punish me, it doesn't matter. The decision we make now is all that matters. Stay with me.
RHEYA: Am I really her?
KELVIN: I don't know anymore. All I see is
KELVIN: Stay with me. Stay with me.
KELVIN: She knows everything. She knows who she is.
SNOW: She knows everything? Does she know she came once before and you put her in
KELVIN: A beat.
SNOW: What do you want?
KELVIN: I want you to get Sartorius to abandon his plan.
SNOW: ( feigning innocence ) What plan?
KELVIN: Just get him to stop.
SNOW: What do you want to do, leave the station with her?
KELVIN: Kelvin, she'll disintegrate. You don't believe me? Let's radio that shuttle pod you launched better yet, let's go get it. I've charted it's trajectory, only take a few Her oxygen would have run out.
SNOW: Kelvin, she'll disintegrate. You don't believe me? Let's radio that shuttle pod you launched better yet, let's go get it. I've charted it's trajectory, only take a few Her oxygen would have run out.
KELVIN: Her oxygen would have run out.
SNOW: Maybe she doesn't need any. Should we check?
SNOW: Who are you trying to please? Yourself? Her? Which her, this one or that one. Can you face both? We are in a situation that is beyond morality. So: Leave with her. You'll see the Into what?
KELVIN: Into what?
SNOW: You'll see her die, that's all. They're mortal, despite what she told you. She will die. Then what will you do?
KELVIN: I love her.
SNOW: You do, you don't. She's willing to give her life, you're willing to give yours, it's touching and magnificent, anything you want but this isn't the place for it. Don't you see? No, you don't.
SARTORIUS: I'm sending you a message because I feel sorry for you. I really do, It is a mistake to become emotionally engaged with one of them. You are being manipulated. You are going around in circles to satisfy the curiosity of a power we don't understand and can't control, and she is the living proof that power exists. If she were ugly, you wouldn't want her around; that's why she's not ugly. She is a mirror that reflects part of your mind. You provide the formula. You can only finish where you started, remember that. They sold us out to the highest bidder. They had no right to do that. We should have been consulted. We're not fucking
RHEYA: What are you taking?
KELVIN: A sleeping pill. Do you want
KELVIN: What does it want?
RHEYA: I don't know. Something.
RHEYA: It created me and yet I can't communicate with it. It must hear me, though. It must know what's happening to me. Don't you think?
SNOW: I don't think it dislikes us. I think it just noticed us. It lives, thinks, and acts. We are dealing with a living creature here, no question. And it's done something we've never been able to do: create a perfect human body. Perfect except for the subatomic alterations, but.
GIBARIAN: On his suicide tape:
GIBARIAN: If Solaris is inside our brain, and it knows everything, and we're only consciously aware of what 2% of our brain is up to at any given moment, it knows us better than we know ourselves. It's not even close.
RHEYA: I've decided that if it is God, it's a sick God. Its ambitions exceed its powers, but it doesn't realize it. It's created a situation without a goal, and I hate that. A God whose passion is not a redemption, who saves nothing, fulfills no purpose. And us? We would have to have "an arrangement". An unspoken understanding that I am not human. How can I not hate something that does that?
KELVIN: Please. Don't.
KELVIN: wakes up. Rheya is beside him, asleep.
KELVIN'S POV: Of the room. His LABRADOR FROM THE OPENING SEQUENCE is sitting by the INT. KELVIN'S CABIN ( EARTH ) Kelvin sits in a chair, looking at:
THE LABRADOR: Sitting in the same position as it was on the Prometheus.
KELVIN: Breathes a sigh of relief at being home. Everything seems slowed down, somehow.
KELVIN: Wakes up again. Rheya is asleep beside him.
KELVIN: Where did you go before?
RHEYA: Last night. You were talking to someone in the corridor.
KELVIN: Last night. You were talking to someone in the corridor.
RHEYA: You must have been dreaming.
KELVIN: What's the matter?
KELVIN: From Kelvin's point of view: Rheya, in the chair, crying. Then he looks right to see: Rheya, in the doorway, talking to someone we cannot see. Then he looks further to the right, and there she is again, staring at him from the bathroom doorway. She moves to the edge of the bed in order to be near.
KELVIN: Sweating. Struggling. Beyond fear.
KEVIN'S POV: Of the woods. But there are strange incongruities in the image pieces of the Prometheus breaking through; for instance, a few of the AUTOMATED TASKMASTERS are crawling along the ground.
KELVIN: Looking from the doorway, notes this. He doesn't seem surprised, though.
RHEYA: Don't blame them. I begged them to do it. It's better this way. I'm sorry. I'm sorry I tried to make you think I was human. I read my own suicide note. I found it in your things. I realized I was not her.
RHEYA: I know that you loved me, Chris. I know that. I love you.
KELVIN: "Though they go mad they shall be sane. Though they sink through the sea they shall rise again."
KELVIN: You murdered her!
SARTORIUS: Kelvin, she begged me. I had a short-range version of the destabilizer prototype, a miniature with a range of a few meters. She walked into it and disappeared. She was gone.
KELVIN: She'll come back.
SARTORIUS: No, she won't.
KELVIN: Why would you let her to do that?
SARTORIUS: It's not human, Kelvin. Whatever it is, it's not human, and I am threatened by that. Evolution-of- the-species-at-stake threatened. And I want to win. I want humans to win. So I am killing it before it kills me.
KELVIN: You fucking bastard.
SARTORIUS: Whose side are you on?
SARTORIUS: ( yelling as he runs ) It's changing characteristics. It's solidifying taking on weight.
KELVIN: How quickly?
SARTORIUS: If it continues, it will implode from its own weight and turn into a black hole in about four hours and pulls us in with it.
KELVIN: Where's Snow? Did you call him?
SARTORIUS: Kelvin turns and sees one of the video monitors that Snow is sitting in his room.
KELVIN: ( via intercom ) Snow! We need you up here.
KELVIN: Snow looks up. There's a strange look on his face.
KELVIN: What's wrong with you? We need your help.
SNOW: I won't be making the trip.
SARTORIUS: Snow, get up here, now.
SNOW: I'm not Snow.
SNOW: I got rid of him. I wanted to see if. I wanted to be the only one. I wanted to be Snow.
SARTORIUS: Fuck me. I knew it.
KELVIN: When did this happen?
SNOW: Oh, right away. That's why you never saw me with anyone. You should've noticed that. I miss him, though. I think I made a But I can't leave with you. I won't make it.
KELVIN: But I can't leave with you. I won't make it.
SNOW: But I can't leave with you. I won't make it.
KELVIN: Maybe you can.
SARTORIUS: You want it coming back with us?
SNOW: You go ahead. Of what I remember about Earth. it's all one thing now. Everything's a blur. I like
SARTORIUS: We do not have time to deal with this. Get the diode sail into position and let me know when the bias drive and the induction ring are at zero point.
RHEYA: Is in the living room, waiting for him. She is sitting on the sofa, looking toward the other side of the room. Sensing someone, she turns to see Kelvin, and her face melts into a smile.
KELVIN: Opens the door. He cannot speak.
RHEYA: Rises and moves toward him. They embrace. He breathes her in. She squeezes him. After a long beat:
KELVIN: How can you be here.
RHEYA: ( whispering ) Shhhh. Just stay with me. ( beat ) Stay with me. Everything is forgiven. Everything.
KELVIN: I love you.
