OVER BLACK: We hear, Ja Rule's "Livin' It Up".
HARRY: ( to Hostess ) Langer. ..
MAITRE'D: Mr. Langer, got your table waiting.
MARIN: ( singing ) To all my thugs that be livin' it up, we say, what I do. To all my. ( stops ) Oh! This is it. Make a right.
HARRY: ( admiring the So baby, you're rich. .
MARIN: Well, my mother is, sort of. Not If she lives within a mile of here, she's I guess a hit play will buy you a house in The Hamptons.
HARRY: If she lives within a mile of here, she's I guess a hit play will buy you a house in The Hamptons.
MARIN: I guess a hit play will buy you a house in The Hamptons.
HARRY: I'd like to meet your mother.
MARIN: No you wouldn't. I mean, she's great. She's totally brilliant, but she's not your type.
HARRY: You're overlooking one of the great things about me. I don't have a type.
MARIN: ( very directly ) She's over thirty.
MARIN: Oh, what?! Like you don't know you have a slight reputation for.
HARRY: For what?
MARIN: For never dating anyone over 30. Don't look at me like that.
HARRY: It's just not true.
MARIN: Okay. Sorry. Over 31?
HARRY: Oh, so you wait 'til we get out to The Hamptons to let me know you're a wise Hold on. . . It just so happens, my dear, that women of a certain age, don't date me. You ever think of it that way? No, it's always me. You dames are all alike.
MARIN: ( amused, to herself )
BARRY: ( into phone ) Vh-huh.. .I'll call back Monday. Who else? Monday. Monday. Say you couldn't find me. Who? ( glances at Marin, she's I'll call her later. No, I have it.
MARIN: ( all business ) Make a right, left at the second
HARRY: Have I mentioned how gorgeous your breasts look in this sweater?
MARIN: ( blushing ) Yes you have actually.
HARRY: So it would be too much to mention it again. . .
HARRY: Wow. It's the perfect beach house.
MARIN: I know. My mother doesn't know how to do things that aren't perfect.
HARRY: Which explains you.
MARIN: ( trying to keep up with Yeah, okay, right.
ARRY: So, what are we gonna do out here, just the two of us, for two whole
MARIN: Tell me the truth, are you at all glad we waited?
HARRY: I'm incredibly glad we're finally going to do it. If that's the same as being glad we waited, then baby doll, I'm ecstatic.
HARRY: ( slaps her tush ) Let's go for a swim, how long will it take you to change?
MARIN: Two minutes. Oh Har. No smoking in the house. My Mom doesn't allow it.
MARIN: Oh Har. No smoking in the house. My Mom doesn't allow it.
HARRY: But she allows you to strip in the front yard and bring men you're dating here to.
MARIN: She doesn't know everything I do.Or when I do it.. or where I do it.
MARIN: ( TAKING OFF her belt ) The fabulous living room, perfect for entertaining an intimate group of friends or that special someone. ( DROPS her belt then Behind me, the requisite Hampton's deck complete with pool and ocean view.
HARRY: Ladies first.
MARIN: Gourmet kitchen's to your left where tonight I will whip you up a culinary feast of Mac and Cheese.
MARIN: ( smiling ) .. O-kay, going quickly now. Master bedroom is that away.
M: And this as they say on 'Cribs', your favorite show, is where the magic happens. Do we like it? Going once, going twice .
ARIN: And this as they say on 'Cribs', your favorite show, is where the magic happens. Do we like it? Going once, going twice .
HARRY: Harry takes Marin's hand and pulls her OUT OF FRAME and ONTO THE BED. She playfully rolls on top of him. His hands cup her
MARIN: You know when I first started auctioneering someone told me if I was nervous to just picture everyone in the audience in their underwear. This sort of gives that a whole new meaning.
HARRY: Why? You're not nervous now, are you?
MARIN: I'm always a little nervous.
HARRY: ( removing his hands ) So put on your bathing suit. I brought some champagne, I'll put it on ice.
MARIN: Me like you, Harry Langer.
E: out from UNDER THE DOOR. They don' t move.
RICA: Oh God. What is this?
ERICA: ( in control ) Okay, stay right where you are. We have a ( eyeing the knife ) Do you. live here?
HARRY: ( eyeing the knife ) Do you. live here?
ERICA: Okay, Mister, look, I'm gonna dial 911 and you're not gonna move. Zoe, hand me the phone.
HARRY: You don't understand. I'm a friend of your daughter's.
ERICA: Yeah? I don't think so. My daughter's in the city and you what, wandered in here,like high on Ecstasy..?. Shit. I dialed 8-1-1.
HARRY: ( calmly starts to move ) Honestly, if you just.
ERICA: Back off. She was in the Israeli army. She can break you in half. Yes. I have an intruder in my house. 29 Daniels Lane, Sagaponack.
ERICA: ( into phone ) Yes. I have an intruder in my house. 29 Daniels Lane, Sagaponack.
HARRY: I'm dating your daughter Marin. She invited me here for the weekend. She's in her room right now, You're dating my daughter?
ERICA: ( GASPS even louder, really You're dating my daughter?
HARRY: ( amused ) Now who would've thought that would be worse news? Oh, fuck.
MARIN: Oh, fuck.
ERICA: Oh, God. I'm sorry. False alarm. Yeah, no, I'm sure. No, he's not a burglar He's dating my daughter.
MARIN: Mom, I had no idea you were coming out this weekend, you said you had to write.
ERICA: I do. I thought I'd do it out here.
MARIN: Oh, man, this is really..
ERICA: Totally.. .but.. You gotta admit, sorta funny You thought he was a burglar? In his boxer shorts?
MARIN: Totally.. .but.. You gotta admit, sorta funny You thought he was a burglar? In his boxer shorts?
ERICA: Yeah, well, the world's nuts, I don't know the man. . .
MARIN: ( still laughing ) I'm sorry, it's not really funny. I'm an idiot. I should've told you I was bringing someone out.
E: No, no, I should've told you we were coming. Well. Anyway, here we Hello. I'm the mother.
RICA: No, no, I should've told you we were coming. Well. Anyway, here we Hello. I'm the mother.
HARRY: Harry Langer. How are ya?
MARIN: Yes. Sorry. Mom, this is my friend, Harry. Harry, my Mom, Erica. my Aunt, Harry's sort of a new friend. I think I mentioned him in an e-mail. We just, totally spur of the moment thought we'd get out of the city for a few days.
ERICA: ( can't look at him ) Honey, does Harry have a robe?
HARRY: ( backing out ) You know what? Actually, I think I should just take off. Let you gals enjoy your
ERICA: No, no, no. Don't be silly. Uh, look, here's what we'll do. Zoe and I will leave. We took a great walk on the beach, we'll go into town for lunch. You two stay. Harry, apologize about the near No, you were impressive. Very strong, very. "macho".
HARRY: No, you were impressive. Very strong, very. "macho".
ERICA: ( a little thrown ) I don't think I was exactly "macho"
HARRY: Trust me, if I ever catch a guy in his underwear in my refrigerator I hope I'm half the man you were, Mrs Yeah. Okay. Whatever.
ERICA: ( already hating him ) Yeah. Okay. Whatever.
HARRY: All righty then.I'm definitely gonna hit the road. Ladies.sensational meeting you. Doll, call me.
ZOE: Hold on. Hold on. Let's not get so dramatic here. What are we four teenagers? We're all sophisticated people. Why can't we all stay, for the weekend? Your mother's got work to do I've got papers to grade. You'll do your thing, whatever that is and if we want to hang together, we'll hang together. If we don't, we don't. There's no reason why any of us should give up this spectacular Seriously. I can handle it.
MARIN: Seriously. I can handle it.
ZOE: I can totally handle it.
ERICA: ( on the spot ) I mean, well, I can "handle" it. It can only go up from here.
HARRY: It can only go up from here.
Z: OE ( V.O. )
ZOE: I mean a father substitute.
ERICA: Except he's older than her father. I can't even look at them. What is she doing with a guy that age?
ZOE: Marin was how old when you guys broke up?
ERICA: Five years ago, so. ..twenty-three.
ZOE: Okay, so she was old enough not to feel Dave was walking out on her.
ERICA: Is that supposed to mean Dave walked out on me? Why do people assume when you break up after twenty years that the guy's the one who wanted out? Just because once we broke up he shtupped everything that moved.
ZOE: Easy cowgirl. I didn't mean it that way. Just trying to figure out why such a smart girl is always with the wrong guy.
ERICA: Bonjour je veux une partie de votre pate merveilleux et de votre meilleur fromage absolu de chevre.
HARRY: That's impressive.
MARIN: She started French lessons after she and my Dad split up. Part of her "Keep Busy, Don't Look Back" program. She's practically fluent now.
ERICA: ( turning back to Marin ) Marin, au cas ou nous prende un desset ou devrions jefaire quelgue chose?
MARIN: ( with an impeccable Laissons quelque chose d'achat. Et ce grand gateau de chocolat?
HARRY: Hey, not bad.. .
MARIN: ( shrugs ) Yeah.well. ..I am fluent. Be right
ERICA: It's an epidemic.
Y: OUNG FRENCH GIRL
ERICA: ( backing off ) Woops. Sorry.
HARRY: My fault.
ERICA: So, Harry. What do you do?
HARRY: I'm one of the owners of a record company among other things.
ERICA: Oh, really? Which record company?
HARRY: Drive by Records.
ERICA: ( appalled at the name ) "Drive By" Records??? Is that a joke? What is that?
HARRY: It's a Hip Hop label.
ERICA: Hip Hop? Oh, rap? Oh, right. Well. Okay. That's. "interesting".
HARRY: Let me see if I get where you're headed here. . .
ERICA: I'm sorry, but, look, you know I hate rap, I mean I do. It's sort of violent and crude for my taste, not to mention just a tad misogynistic.
HARRY: Hey, a lot of people see rapping as Yeah, but come on, how many words can you rhyme with 'Bitch'?
ERICA: Yeah, but come on, how many words can you rhyme with 'Bitch'?
MARIN: ( joining Harry ) How we doin?
HARRY: Should've left when she tried to arrest
MARIN: So, Mom, how's the new play? You gettin' happy with it?
ERICA: Well, the thing with me is that I'm about 90% hard word, 10% talent and so far the talent part hasn't exactly kicked in yet.
ZOE: Yeah, right.
HARRY: What's your play about?
ERICA: About? Well, I'm not exactly sure which is a bit of a problem, but so far it's about a divorced woman, a writer, she's this high strung, over-amped, controlling, know it all neurotic. . . Who's incredibly cute and lovable. It's a comedy.
M: So, how did you two meet?
ARIN: At a Wine Auction at Sotheby's. Harry was the big buyer of the night.
HARRY: I kept winking at Marin as she was conducting the auction and apparently every time I did that she misunderstood and I ended up buying cases of outrageously expensive wine.
ERICA: Ever been married, Harry?
HARRY: No. No, I haven't.
ERICA: Wow. Now why do you think that is?
HARRY: Some people just don't fit the mold. And so far.
ERICA: Hey, if it ain't broke.
HARRY: Harry leans back, places his arm around Marin's chair. Erica takes note.
ZOE: Wait a second, aren't you like a famous I wouldn't say I'm famous.
HARRY: I wouldn't say I'm famous.
ZOE: No, I think I read a piece on you in New York Magazine.
HARRY: I guess people find it interesting that I've escaped the noose for so Yeah, wasn't the name of the article, "The Escape Artist"?
ZOE: Yeah, wasn't the name of the article, "The Escape Artist"?
ERICA: Wait. I read that article. That was you? You were once engaged to somebody big. Who was it? Not Joan Collins.. .Wait. ..Carly Simon?
ZOE: Yeah, it was somebody cool like that. Not Martha Stewart..
MARIN: You could just ..'ask him.
HARRY: No, this is more fun. It's like I'm not here.
MARIN: Harry was once engaged to Diane Sawyer. Okay?
ZOE: Right. Diane Sawyer. I love her.
ERICA: ( stunned ) I'm impressed.
HARRY: Yeah, women your age love that about me.
HARRY: ( trying to get thru this ) You know what I mean.
ERICA: Yes I do.
HARRY: It's not a bad thing to say 'women your age'.
ERICA: No.I'm sure it was a compliment.
HARRY: It was. ..just the truth.
ZOE: ( stepping in ) So when was this engagement?
HARRY: Long time ago. She was just this adorable lanky girl from Kentucky with the greatest pair of legs I'd ever seen. Never understood her ending up with a job where she never showed them.
ERICA: You're not serious? She's Diane Sawyer, she goes into caves in Afghanistan with a shmahtah on her head. Who cares about her legs?
HARRY: Just anyone who's ever had the pleasure of. You know what? I hate to eat and run but.
ZOE: No, wait. This is actually a very fascinating dynamic - what's going on at this table.
MARIN: ( warning him )
Z: oe teaches Women's Studies at Columbia. . .
HARRY: Oh, so this is gonna hurt.
ZOE: No, come on, listen, here's the rub for women. Look at what we have here with you and Erica. Harry, you've been around the block a few times, right? You're what? Around 60, never been married, which, we all know, if you were a woman, would be a curse, you'd be an old maid, a spinster, blah, blah, blah. Okay, so instead of pitying you, they write articles about you, celebrate your never marrying, it makes you illusive and ungettable. You're a real catch. Then, take my gorgeous sister here.
ERICA: Any chance of you stopping here?
ZOE: Come on, this is interesting. I mean, look at her, she's so accomplished, the most successful woman playwright since who? Lillian Hellman? She's over fifty, divorced and still sits in night after night because the available guys her age want
ERICA: What are you, possessed? How could you say those things?
ZOE: It just seemed so obvious to me. The injustice of it. Thank God men die younger than us. It's the only break we Then you know what? Write a dissertation on it, don't announce to the world that I stay in night after night after night and by the way, one night after night would have been enough. Did you ever realize, I stay "in" as part of my job. Why do you think I married the director of my plays? He was the only man I ever saw. Anyway, I like staying in and I like this time in my life. Why do I have to defend myself?
ERICA: Then you know what? Write a dissertation on it, don't announce to the world that I stay in night after night after night and by the way, one night after night would have been enough. Did you ever realize, I stay "in" as part of my job. Why do you think I married the director of my plays? He was the only man I ever saw. Anyway, I like staying in and I like this time in my life. Why do I have to defend myself?
MARIN: What the hell was that?
ZOE: I'm sorry, I thought I was onto Honey, what are you doing with this guy? He's old, he's chauvinistic.
ERICA: Honey, what are you doing with this guy? He's old, he's chauvinistic.
MARIN: He's fun.
ERICA: He's fun? How is he fun? He's like.. .wrong.
MARIN: Wrong can be fun, Mom.
ERICA: Not this wrong.
MARIN: Can we not do this now? He's actually incredibly smart and fascinating and if you had talked to him about something other than his marital status you would've found out how smart he is. He owns like 10 different companies.
ERICA: What does that mean he owns ten different companies? He can't commit, that's what that means. Not that, God forbid, I want him to Yeah, that I get. Anyway, he said he thought you two were very spontaneous and nice and then said he's leaving as soon as the sun comes up.
MARIN: Yeah, that I get. Anyway, he said he thought you two were very spontaneous and nice and then said he's leaving as soon as the sun comes up.
ERICA: What? His car doesn't have Good night.
MARIN: Good night.
ERICA: Wait. I have no right to get this He's your friend. Not mine. I love This is obviously a ritual between them. Erica kisses Marin's cheek in a flutter of kisses, then Marin
MARIN: ( hugs her back ) I love you more.
ZOE: No chance he said we were nice.
ERICA: Please. None.
ZOE: What are they listening to?
ERICA: I don't care. Oy. Marvin Gaye. . .
ERICA: I know she'll never see him after this weekend. She can't commit
ZOE: He does sound fun.
ZOE: Admit it, he's got something. You felt it, right?
ERICA: Oh, this is nuts.
ERICA: Did she say, Mom?
MARIN: We were fooling around and he said he felt funny Hthen he just collapsed.
ARRY: ( out of breath ) It's nothing. I'm okay maybe it was the lobster.
ERICA: Does your chest hurt?
HARRY: Like an elephant's standing on it.
ERICA: ( to Marin ) Call 911.tell them to send an ambulance. . .
ERICA: Marin! Now!
ERICA: ( coming closer ) Mouth to mouth.
ON HARRY: Even in this state he gets that Erica is about to place her. mouth on his. His eyes WIDEN IN HORROR, he reels back. Erica catches this.
ERICA: You fucking guy.
JULIAN: How we doing here?
PARAMEDIC #1: He's had 30 minutes of chest pain, nausea, shortness of breath, blood pressure's 170 over 100, pulse 104, respirations 18.
JULIAN: Let's get an EKG. Mr. Langer, I'm Dr. Mercer. Are you in any pain right now? Feel some pressure in my chest.it's real tight.
HARRY: Feel some pressure in my chest.it's real tight.
JULIAN: Can you show me where the pain is?
JULIAN: What were you doing at the onset of the pain?
HARRY: I was uh, kissing a beautiful.
JULIAN: ( watching the monitor ) Where you having intercourse?
HARRY: Unfortunately, no.
JULIAN: ense of humor in tact. Hang a nitroglycerine drip. Mr. Langer the EKG shows you have a blocked artery which is not allowing enough oxygen to get to the heart muscle.. .
S: ense of humor in tact. Hang a nitroglycerine drip. Mr. Langer the EKG shows you have a blocked artery which is not allowing enough oxygen to get to the heart muscle.. .
HARRY: I'm having a heart attack?
JULIAN: We're gonna stop it. But I need to know what kind of medications you I take uh. uh. . . Lipitor. . .
HARRY: ( scared shitless ) I take uh. uh. . . Lipitor. . .
JULIAN: ( reading the EKG tape ) Uh-huh. .Any thing else?
HARRY: and a white one for blood pressure. . .
JULIAN: What about, Viagra?
HARRY: What about, Viagra?
JULIAN: What about, Viagra?
JULIAN: Mr. Langer? Did you take any Viagra today? Mr. Langer?
HARRY: No. No Viagra.
JULIAN: You're positive?
HARRY: I don't take Viagra. Don't need
JULIAN: Great. Just needed to be sure because I put nitroglycerin into your-drip and if you had taken Viagra, the combo would make your heart leap right out of your
JULIAN: Let's give him an aspirin and Metoprolol 5mg.
HARRY: Sorry, had an audience.
JULIAN: It's okay. ..it was a great save. Let's start the thrombolytic protocol. "4000 units of heparin. Mr. Langer, if this works and I have every reason to believe it will, it's going to reverse what's going on so there will be little or no damage to your heart. You with me? Okay, here we go.
THE HALLWAY: Marin paces, smoking. Erica sits. Zoe leans against the wall.
MARIN: Oh, man, what if he doesn't make it? I don't know who to contact.
ERICA: He's gonna make it. Don't worry.
M: He's like a bulldog. He'll make it.
ARIN: This is a nightmare. I go out with a guy who's so old, he takes Are you nuts? You go out with a guy who's so old he's having a heart All I can say is, thank God it didn't happen when he was inside you. That could be life altering.
ERICA: Are you nuts? You go out with a guy who's so old he's having a heart All I can say is, thank God it didn't happen when he was inside you. That could be life altering.
ZOE: All I can say is, thank God it didn't happen when he was inside you. That could be life altering.
JULIAN: Your Dad's gonna be okay.
MARIN: Oh, he's not my Dad.
JULIAN: I'm sorry. Your Grandad's gonna be okay.
MARIN: ( throws her arms around Oh, thank you so much. But he's not my. oh we're not related. He's just a friend.
JULIAN: His sweet apologetic smile is not lost on Marin. Zoe and Erica join them.
JULIAN: I'm Dr. Mercer. Mr. Langer did have a mild heart attack. I gave him something to break up the clot in his artery and it worked beautifully.
ERICA: ( shoulders sagging ) Thank you. . .
JULIAN: No, whoever got him here so fast should be thanked. Another half hour and I don't know if this would've worked.
ERICA: Oh, man. This was.intense.
JULIAN: We're out of the woods. I've given him something to sleep, it might make him a little loopy at first but then it should knock him out. You're Mrs. Langer?
ERICA: No, no I'm just. No. I'm Erica Barry. . He was having dinner at our house. I just met him this afternoon.
JULIAN: You're Erica Barry?
ERICA: The playwright?
JULIAN: The playwright?
ERICA: What a pleasure. I'm a huge fan. Huge fan.
JULIAN: What a pleasure. I'm a huge fan. Huge fan.
ERICA: Really? Oh, thanks. This is my daughter, Marin, my sister, Zoe.
JULIAN: CLOSE - A JAPANESE TEA POT Julian pours steaming hot tea into 3 paper cups.
M: the steam.
ARIN: Camera Pans to ZOE. Sitting next to Marin. She is also handed a Cup of Tea. Even she softens as she looks up at Julian.
ZOE: Thank you Doctor.
ERICA: Oh. . .Hey. . .Ew. . .Hot. Thanks.
JULIAN: ( eyes on Erica ) You're welcome. May I join you?
ERICA: Yeah. Sure. This is very nice of First year of medical school you learn what can keep you up all night without making you nuts. Green Tea beats everything plus it's a great antioxidant. Cheers.
JULIAN: First year of medical school you learn what can keep you up all night without making you nuts. Green Tea beats everything plus it's a great antioxidant. Cheers.
MARIN: ( turning on the charm ) So, urn, do you always work nights?
JULIAN: Usually two or-three a week, gives me a chance for a real life during the day. . . You know, I heard you had a place in the Hamptons. I really am a very big fan. I honestly think I've seen every play you've ever written.
ERICA: I think some were written before your time. There are some Marin's never even seen.
JULIAN: No, I'm pretty sure I've seen them all and I saw the last one twice.
NURSE: Doctor, we've got a walk in, may need stitches. . .
JULIAN: ( rises ) I'll check on MI. Langer.if he's asleep; you all might want to get some shut eye and come back in the morning. Great to meet you Erica. Ladies. . .
ERICA: ( to Marin ) Okay, now that's a perfect a guy for you. He's adorable.
MARIN: Mother! I've never seen a man less interested in me.
ZOE: Or more interested in you.
ERICA: Me? He's thirty years old.
MARIN: No, he's older than that.
ZOE: Who cares how old, he is. I mean, he's not my type, he's like a gorgeous wholesome doctor but, he's perfect for you and hot for you, which makes him really perfect.
ERICA: Stop it. He likes my work. Not me. It's insane. I would never. Shut. Up.
Z: Gown, pretty out of it.
OE: ( rises )
MARIN: ( rises )
MARIN: Harry! Over here!
HARRY: Honey, I want to go home. Can you call Lowell to pick me up?
MARIN: ( confused )
ERICA: Harry, you have to get back in bed.
HARRY: Woman. And I say that as a compliment. You saved my life. Soft.. . I don't remember your name but I thank you from the bottom of my.
ERICA: ( afraid to breathe ) Ugh. Look at this, even unconscious, he's a lech.
NURSE: Mr. Langer, you shouldn't be Got to take a whiz girls.
HARRY: Got to take a whiz girls.
NURSE: We'll take care of that for you, Mr. Langer.
HARRY: Okay. You take care of it for me, sweetheart. I'd like to see that.
MARIN: This is the most insane night of my Yeah, but just admit that was one great ass for a guy that age.
ZOE: Yeah, but just admit that was one great ass for a guy that age.
NURSE: Now what can I do you for?
LOWELL: I'm here for Mr. Harry Langer.
NURSE: ( to Julian ) Are we discharging Hurricane Harry?
JULIAN: Yes we are. Hi, I'm Dr. Mercer. Come on, I'll take you to him.
J: phones, note pads, carry balloons, flowers and shopping bags.
ULIAN: And you are. . ?
LOWELL: Lowell St. James'. Mr. Langer's houseman, chef. general valet..
JULIAN: Well that sounds like a pretty, interesting job.
LOWELL: Fifteen years. Never a dull moment.
JULIAN: Okay, Harry, looks like we're going to have to let you go.
HARRY: Take it easy kids, I just sat up too fast. Doc, tell them. Am I in good shape? How were my tests this He's doing extremely well.
JULIAN: He's doing extremely well.
LOWELL: ( holding back tears ) Can I hug him?
JULIAN: Harry stands and indulges Lowell in a deep hug. Lowell's shoulders shake as he sobs.
HARRY: Okay, Okay. Let's not get goofy. We got no thin , but good news here.
LOWELL: I must say, you do look good. considering. You have a little extra baggage under your eyes, but I know how to fix that.
HARRY: ( to Julian ) See what good hands I'm in. Did you meet my gorgeous assistants?
JULIAN: Not formally.
HARRY: Girls. .my Doctor, Julian Mercer. Honey, did you bring the CDs?
HARRY: ( to Julian ) These are for you. ( to the Girls ) The man loves Hip Hop.
JULIAN: ( checking out the bag ) Maybe not this much but.
HARRY: And did you bring the other thing?
HARRY: This is just to thank you for your brilliance the other night. I hope it suits you.
JULIAN: ( opening the box ) Wow. This is.. .Jesus, this is the most gorgeous watch I've ever seen.
HARRY: - Oh, good. It's a Piaget. He likes it.
JULIAN: No, I love it and this is incredibly generous of you but I can't accept it.
HARRY: You save my life and you end up with some CDs?
JULIAN: No, I end up seeing you walk out of here and I do get paid you know -
T: hey all turn, see Marin at the door. She waves to Harry, more reserved than normal.
JULIAN: Harry, I'll see you on the way out.
LOWELL: ( whispers ) We'll pull up the car.
HARRY: So, I'm some great date, huh?
MARIN: Yeah. Mr. Excitement.
HARRY: Tell me somethin', we haven't actually had sex yet, have we?
MARIN: No we haven't. You're correct on that one.
HARRY: Something to live for.
HARRY: Down to the cheek. Come on, let's get outta here.
NURSE: Hold on Tarzan, we're still movin' . Okay, now slow-ly.
HARRY: Look at these faces. Will you tell them I'm fine.
ERICA: Whoa! Whoa! WHOA!
JULIAN: Harry, I'm sorry, but I think we jumped the gun.. .can't let you travel quite yet.
HARRY: I ain't goin' back in there.
JULIAN: You don't have to but I can't put you in a car right now and I can't leave you in the parking lot. I'd like you to stay nearby for a few days and let me keep an eye on you 'til you get your strength Doc, I'm out in the middle of the Hamptons. Where do you want me to go?
HARRY: Doc, I'm out in the middle of the Hamptons. Where do you want me to go?
I: NT. THE GUEST BEDROOM - SAME TIME Harry sits up in bed wearing silk pajamas, holding an unlit cigar, and is on the phone. Zoe enters, placing the new bouquet on the already flower filled dresser. Lowell lifts a LUNCH TRAY off the bed as Kim stands nearby on the cell phone. Marin packs her bag.
HARRY: ( into phone ) Just promise me you won't make a decision until we talk. Thinking about it ain't promising me. Okay, man, I'm seein' you Friday. ( hangs up, then to Lowell ) Lowell, what was that?
LOWELL: ( looking down at the Tray ) Your lunch.
HARRY: Somebody tell you to starve me to death?
KIM: ( into phone ) Rush? No, man, you're livin' the shit. I just got a clean bill of health.
HARRY: ( into phone ) Rush? No, man, you're livin' the shit. I just got a clean bill of health.
DAVE: This is the best turkey sandwich I ever had in my life. What kind of mustard is this?
ERICA: ( not turning around ) I don't know.
DAVE: All right, don't get pissy. It's not Dijon, right?
ERICA: Don't get pissy. ..you say that 'cause this, of course, would never happen to you. .1 come out here for peace and quiet and suddenly I'm a character in a Kaufman and Hart play. And the phone does not stop. And it's never for me!
LOWELL: Sorry to interrupt.
ERICA: That's fine Lowell, I'll take that.
LOWELL: No, please, allow me.
ERICA: No, no, I'll take it. No problem.
ERICA: The man does not know my name and I'm doing his dishes.
LEX: Hi Erica. Um.where should I put
E: Right here. I'll take it.
RICA: Right here. I'll take it.
LEXI: And Harry has a headache. Do you have any Tylenol?
ERICA: Tylenol yes. ..
LEXI: ( extends her hand to Dave ) Hi. I'm Lexi, Harry's second Hey.Dave Klein. How ya doin'?
DAVE: Hey.Dave Klein. How ya doin'?
ERICA: ( holding the water glass ) Where should I put this? It's an empty water glass. What are the ( rises ) I'm gettin' outta your hair.
DAVE: ( rises ) I'm gettin' outta your hair.
ERICA: Thank you.
DAVE: So you're not ready to show me any pages? I'm not putting pressure on you, I'm just asking.
ERICA: I haven't written a word. I'm on page twelve and the first eleven pages stink.
DAVE: So you have one good page. How tall do you think that girl
MARIN: Dad! I didn't know you were here.
DAVE: I'm just on my way out, bubbee.
MARIN: Well, I was just gonna drive into the city with Zoe but if you're driving back, I'd much rather go with you.
DAVE: I have to meet someone before I go.
ERICA: ( to Marin ) Wait wait wait wait. You're leaving, Zoe's leaving, the entourage is leaving. And I'm supposed to stay here with him alone?
MARIN: The doctor said" he's 'sending over a Nurse in the morning.
ERICA: The morning? That's nineteen hours from Okay, I can handle this. I'm just going to get into a zen' place, play music, cook, write, focus.
DAVE: She never changes.
ERICA: ( setting him straight ) Yes. Maybe that's a good thing.
ERICA: Coq au Vin.
H: Chicken cooked in red wine.
ARRY: French Food. French music.
ERICA: Part of my play takes place in Paris so I'm hoping this helps me think. I'm hopin'.How you feeling?
HARRY: Well, I walked all the way in here, only bumping into two chairs and an Everyone bumps into that ottoman.
ERICA: Everyone bumps into that ottoman.
HARRY: Hey, thanks for letting me.
ERICA: Yeah, no.it's fine. Hello. Yes, he is.
HARRY: ( into phone ) Hello. Hey sweets. ( Erica hates this ) Oh, you got the flowers? Are they Hey, can I call you in a little bit. What's your number doll? ( spots a pad and pencil )
HARRY: Hey, can I call you in a little bit. What's your number doll?
HARRY: ( slips them on, jots down Okay. Call you in a little.
HARRY: Same prescription.
ERICA: Look, Harry, it's not like in any stretch of the imagination, I think you're all that right for my daughter but I don't really appreciate hearing you on the phone with other women. It's like I'm an accomplice to you cheating, it's.
HARRY: Your daughter knows I see other women.
ERICA: She does? I mean, fine, it's none of my business.but.
HARRY: She knows I'm not monogamous.We've discussed it.
ERICA: Great? And that's what? Why are you proud of that?
HARRY: Not proud. Just honest. Your daughter said she likes that about me.
ERICA: My daughter is confused when it comes to men.
HARRY: I don't blame her. We're confusing.
N: othing is said. Just two people eating. Harry lifts the salt shaker, about to add salt to his chicken.
ERICA: Should I just call the ambulance now?
ERICA: What am I doing?
HARRY: ( into phone ) Can you hold a see, doll? ( looks to Erica ) Okay, here's the thing. I really don't want to play the part of the uptight Nurse to your bad boy patient. If you want to have another heart attack, go ahead, it's your life but I have work to do and I don't have time to make another run to the hospital because you're filling your already clogged arteries with smoke but more importantly, I'd rather not have my house smell like a pool hall.
ERICA: Okay, here's the thing. I really don't want to play the part of the uptight Nurse to your bad boy patient. If you want to have another heart attack, go ahead, it's your life but I have work to do and I don't have time to make another run to the hospital because you're filling your already clogged arteries with smoke but more importantly, I'd rather not have my house smell like a pool hall.
HARRY: I have a question for you.
ERICA: What? Do I Hhave to say what?
ARRY: Have you always been like this or do I bring this out in you?
HARRY: I don't think I've ever had this effect on a woman before.
ERICA: ( picking up the And what effect do you think you're having on me?
HARRY: I don't quite recognize it, that's how I know I've never had it before.
HARRY: So you don't sleep?
ERICA: I only need about four hours a night.
HARRY: Me too. Never slept eight hours in my Me either. I wish I could. ..but. Want me to shut these, sun comes in pretty strong in the morning.
ERICA: Me either. I wish I could. ..but. Want me to shut these, sun comes in pretty strong in the morning.
HARRY: Sure. . . thanks. . .
ERICA: ( drawing the drapes ) Who you talking to at this hour?
HARRY: A friend in L.A. It's only ten out there.
ERICA: And that's not past her bedtime?
HARRY: So you don't get more mellow as the hours Good night, Harry.
ERICA: ( heading out ) Good night, Harry.
HARRY: Can I ask you one other thing? What's with the turtlenecks? It's the middle of summer.
ERICA: Now seriously, why do you care what I Just curious.
HARRY: Just curious.
ERICA: I like them. I've always liked them. I'm just a turtleneck kinda gal.
HARRY: You ever get hot?
ERICA: Not lately.
HARRY: Not lately.
ERICA: Not lately.
HARRY: flustered, spins around, loses his balance, crashes into the wall, covers his eyes.
HARRY: I'm sorry! Oh, God am I sorry.
HARRY: Trying to find the kitchen!
HARRY: I-I got confused..! It was dark. I didn't really see anything. Just your tits and a little of your-
HARRY: This is gonna be murder.
NURSE: Good bye Mrs. Barry.
ERICA: Good bye? You're leaving? That's not good.
NURSE: Been fired.
ERICA: Fired? You just started.
HARRY: Not fired darlin'. Just not needed.
ERICA: What do you mean, not needed? Of course we need her. She's gonna take care of you and feed you and.
HARRY: No, no, I'm actually feeling pretty perky today. Making quite a recovery. . . Sorry for the trouble Mrs. Gimble. Take care, dear.
HARRY: Listen, about last night.
ERICA: Yeah. How 'bout we never talk about that? I was at the drugstore. Your prescriptions were ready. They said take these two with food and this one without.
HARRY: Honestly, you were in silhouette.
ERICA: I think that's talkin' about it.
HARRY: I really didn't see all that much.
ERICA: ( heading toward her room ) Yip. There you go.
HARRY: Okay. Won't mention it again but.
ERICA: ( almost out of the room ) Goin' to work, Harry.
HARRY: ( yells ) You saw my ass, you don't see me acting nuts, wearing hats and glasses and weird get ups.
HARRY: Yes or no. What's the deal, can I You still getting dizzy?
JULIAN: You still getting dizzy?
HARRY: Not as much.
JULIAN: Out of breath?
HARRY: Only sometimes.
JULIAN: ( listens with stethoscope ) How's Erica treating you?
HARRY: ( nods toward Living Room ) Erica. . .
JULIAN: ( nods toward Living Room ) Erica. . .
HARRY: Her? Oh, she's a major piece of work. The woman wears turtlenecks in the middle of the summer.
JULIAN: Uptight? That's funny. I haven't noticed that.
HARRY: Try livin' with her.
HARRY: ( with secret glee ) I actually saw her naked last That doesn't sound so uptight.
JULIAN: That doesn't sound so uptight.
HARRY: It was an accident. She thought I was asleep, I thought her room was the kitchen.
JULIAN: You know what Freud said - there are no accidents.
HARRY: Trust me. This was an accident. Although, why would she be walking around naked when she knows I'm 20 feet away.
JULIAN: Why would you think her bedroom was the kitchen?
HARRY: It was dark, it was two in the That could explain why she was walking around naked. Deep breath.
JULIAN: That could explain why she was walking around naked. Deep breath.
HARRY: You know I've never seen a woman that age naked before.
JULIAN: You're kidding?
HARRY: Hey, we're not all doctors.
JULIAN: Well, I think she's very beautiful and she's a fantastic writer, you No, I don't know.
HARRY: No, I don't know.
JULIAN: Erica Barry? She's pretty major. So, you date her daughter?
HARRY: Okay, now she's a great chick. Must take after the father. Which reminds me.Doc, what ( about Mr. Midnight here. . ? When can I be up and running in that department?
JULIAN: I think Mr. Midnight needs to stay put for another couple of weeks.
HARRY: But it won't kill me when I do it, right?
JULIAN: It's exercise. It'll be good for you. And just so you know, I'm told after a heart attack, if you can climb a flight of stairs, you can have sex.
ERICA: So, you're saying, he's not ready to travel at all? Not even by plane? Train?
JULIAN: I don't think so. It's been tough, huh?
ERICA: Well, he fired the Nurse after an hour, now says he doesn't need one. He's a bit of a workout.. .yeah.
JULIAN: How are you holding up?
ERICA: Oh, fine. .I'm fine, I'm.
JULIAN: One more fine and I won't believe you.
ERICA: Oh, shoot, hold on. Hello. Hey.Oh, hi.
ERICA: ( into phone ) No, I'm finally getting to it.
ULIAN: ( heading out ) Pick you up around seven?
ERICA: W-What about the patient?
JULIAN: Like he said, he doesn't need a
HARRY: ( yells, warning-like ) I'm Walking Around The house!
ERICA: Listen, I've decided to get over the whole "you saw me naked" thing. So, we don't have to deal with it anymore. Okay?
HARRY: Good, 'cause I've been hiding from you all day.
ERICA: I know. You want to come in?
HARRY: I don't want to break your rhythm or anything.
ERICA: That would be wishful thinking.
HARRY: Beautiful painting. So I'm gonna venture out there and go for a short walk.
ERICA: You up to that?
HARRY: My doctor recommended it. I gotta build up to stairs and stuff like that. You wouldn't want to join me?
ERICA: That means you don't want me to?
HARRY: No, I was asking if you wanted to.
ERICA: Oh, well, I would but.I don't usually like to break once I've started writing so I probably shouldn't, not that a little fresh air would hurt but.
HARRY: It's just a walk Erica, not a marriage proposal.
ERICA: You know my name.
HARRY: Erica Jane Barry. I looked you up on the internet.
HARRY: Did you know there are over eight thousand websites that mention you?
ERICA: That can't be possible.
HARRY: No, it's true. I know everything about you now. And not because of last night, but.
E: Yeah, I understood. I actually looked you up too. You grew up in L.A., which I thought nobody did.
RICA: Yeah, I understood. I actually looked you up too. You grew up in L.A., which I thought nobody did.
HARRY: It's exhausting just hearing about it.
ERICA: I know, but the truth is, it goes fast doesn't it?
HARRY: Like the blink of an eye.
HARRY: I noticed you have bowls of those all over your house.
ERICA: I know, I'm crazy, I just think they're so beautiful.
HARRY: But why do you only pick up the white I don't only pick up the white ones.
ERICA: I don't only pick up the white ones.
HARRY: Oh, so you really are crazy.
ERICA: I pick up only the white ones? Oh, God, what does that mean? I'm controlling, unadventurous, what?
HARRY: So you're as hard on yourself as you are on everyone else. Something to remember me by.
HARRY: Something to remember me by.
ERICA: So can I ask you something Harry? What's with all the young girls? I mean, what's the story there, really?
HARRY: I just like to travel light.
ERICA: You just like to travel light? Oh, please, what the hell does that mean?
HARRY: Now see a thirty year old gets that.
ERICA: You mean falls for that.
HARRY: I mean, accepts it.
ERICA: If that's what you want. a non threatening woman, who won't get your number, you get to run the show.
HARRY: I think our relationship is growing by the way. Have you noticed?
HARRY: I'm serious. Maybe we just needed to get out of the house. Now, you may notice, interestingly, we're walking back toward the house and its getting a little rocky Of course it's getting a little rocky, we're talking about you.
ERICA: Of course it's getting a little rocky, we're talking about you.
HARRY: See, I'll accept that slight hostility because I'm enjoying your company so much.
T: hey're reached the bottom of the beach stairs. Harry looks up, daunted.
ERICA: You okay?
HARRY: Yeah, but I think I'11 stay down here and watch the sunset. You interested?
HARRY: Big dinner date?
ERICA: Well, yeah, as a matter of fact. With your doctor.
HARRY: Ohhhhh, my doctor, 'cause he's not too young for you, huh?
ERICA: No, he's totally too young for me. But we're just having dinner. It's not a date.
HARRY: Does he know that?
ERICA: Well, I'll tell him, but I doubt that he thinks of it that way.
HARRY: I doubt that you doubt that. Anyway, you may like it. Think of it this way he's not threatening, won't get your number, you get to run the show. You might have a hell of a time.
JULIAN: Hey, look who's answering the door.
HARRY: And look who's at the door.
JULIAN: Brought you something.
JULIAN: A heart healthy dinner from our
JULIAN: You look beautiful.
ERICA: Thank you.
ERICA: ( thrown ) We ready..?
JULIAN: Let me just see how Harry's doing. It'll take two seconds. Har, have a seat. .
HARRY: What? That's not the face you want to see your doctor making.
JULIAN: Your pulse is a little fast but maybe you're just excited about
HARRY: ( quickly ) I don't think so. I'm not excited about anything.
JULIAN: There it goes again. Racing.
HARRY: Doc. Impossible!
JULIAN: Oh, there we go, now I feel better. Back to normal.
HARRY: Okay, all right, good, have fun, don't rush back for me and don't do anything I wouldn't do.
ERICA: Well that wouldn't leave us too many options would it?
HARRY: And do we wonder how she writes that snappy repartee. Let him pick up the check. It'll make him feel older.
M: his face. As the CAMERA moves we HEAR:
HARRY: Hey, it's me.just sitting around looking at your baby pictures. Thinking about you.
HARRY: Everybody's out but old Har.. .Old, old old old Har.
HARRY: ( complimented ) Top of the heap.
ERICA: So, when the land came up, I snatched it and the house was built in record time and. It's like a thousand degrees in here.
JULIAN: You know, they say doctors fall for people who need rescuing, that we have a need to take care of someone.
ERICA: Really? I never heard that one. Julian, how old are you, like.
JULIAN: Thirty-three.-Okay, so, I'm twenty years older than you. More than twenty years older than you.
ERICA: Thirty-three.-Okay, so, I'm twenty years older than you. More than twenty years older than you.
JULIAN: You look fabulous.
ERICA: Thank you but you know, I'm not sure where you were headed with that thing you were just saying, but in terms of us, you just want to be friends, right?
JULIAN: Honestly? No.
ERICA: Well, then, what is it that you. want to be?
J: I think I'd embarrass you if I told I was embarrassed just getting dressed to see you.
ULIAN: I think I'd embarrass you if I told I was embarrassed just getting dressed to see you.
ERICA: I was embarrassed just getting dressed to see you.
JULIAN: This may surprise you but some women consider me quite the guy. I've never been married. I'm a doctor. You wouldn't believe what catnip that is for some women.
ERICA: Oh yes I would. But, you don't like girls your own age?
JULIAN: I do very much. But I've never met one I've taken to quite like this and when something happens to you that's never happened to you before, don't you have to at least find out what it is?
ERICA: I suppose but, see, I don't date all that much or all that well.
JULIAN: Oh, come on, you must beat them away with a stick.
ERICA: Now you're kidding, right? No, guys my age, the ones I've met.well, I'm not that regular a person and they really like regular.
JULIAN: Men your age may be really stupid, you ever think of that?
ERICA: Yes I have. Many times.
JULIAN: ( looks from her hand to There's something radically wrong with the idea that no one loves you.
JULIAN: I knew you'd smell good.
ERICA: It's just.soap.
JULIAN: How much is soap that smells like this?
ERICA: I don't know. I got it at the market.
JULIAN: Erica, you're incredibly sexy.
ERICA: No, swear to God, I'm not.
ERICA: ( yells ) I'm back.
ERICA: It was interesting. So. Good night.
HARRY: ( yells )
W: e go BACK AND FORTH between their TWO ROOMS. She answers: Writing. Hi. What R U doing? He writes: Watching Joan Rivers sell jewelry. Erica laughs when he adds: So was your date a date? She types: I think so. He types: I told ya. ( then ) You hungry? Surprised, she types: I just had dinner. He writes: Yeah, but women never eat on dates.
ERICA: ( to herself ) How does he know everything!
HARRY: We are cute.
ERICA: This is pretty unusual for me. I'm not used to having sleepovers.
HARRY: Me either.
ERICA: Really? With your social life?
HARRY: My, dear, you are confusing sex with sleeping. Sleeping is something I prefer to do alone.
ERICA: Okay, good to know. So, what are you hungry for?
HARRY: ( joining her ) What are my choices? I mean I know you think I'm not very discriminating but.
ERICA: Oh, God, what's the difference what I think. I can't imagine what you think of me. Okay, so. Pasta, left over coq au vin, turkey sandwich or grilled cheese.
HARRY: Totally what I wanted. Blueberries?
ERICA: Totally what I wanted. Blueberries?
HARRY: You ever miss being married? I bet you were great at it.
ERICA: Sometimes I miss it. At night.. But not that much anymore. Was one of us just saying something interesting?
HARRY: You said you can't imagine what I think of you.
ERICA: Oh, right, but you don't have to answer I mean, if you had an opinion, I'd be curious but.'
HARRY: I mean, if you had an opinion, I'd be curious but.'
ERICA: I mean, if you had an opinion, I'd be curious but.'
HARRY: will you tell me first why you only miss being married at night?
ERICA: ( cracking eggs ) Oh, 'cause the phone doesn't ring as much at night and the "alone" thing happens at night and sleeping by myself took some getting used to. But I got the hang of it. You gotta sleep in the middle of the bed. It's absolutely not healthy to have a side when no one has the other side.
HARRY: Okay, now I'm convinced what I think of you is right. You are a tower of strength.
ERICA: ( shoulders sagging ) Ughhhhhhhhhh. .
HARRY: Try not to rate my answer.
ERICA: I'm sorry. It's just.I'm sorry.
HARRY: You're like a thoroughbred in a world of mutts. No, you know what you are, you're like a great portrait over a fireplace. Words have been invented to describe women like you.
ERICA: ( fearful ) Such as?
HARRY: Flinty and.Impervious.
ERICA: So you think I'm inhuman.
HARRY: No. I think you're formidable.
ERICA: But cold and distant. Like I'm frozen in some painting.
HARRY: Not at all. I think you're strength defines you. But it's thrilling when your defenses are down arid you're not isolated. That, I believe, is your winning combo. A killer combo actually.
ERICA: . So I can't decide if you hate me or if maybe you're the only person who ever got I don't hate you.
HARRY: I don't hate you.
ERICA: Marin ARRIVES IN THE DOORWAY in a knockout of a dress holding a bag from Zabars. She looks fresh, vibrant, sexy.
MARIN: Room service!
ERICA: What are you doing here at this hour?
MARIN: ( enters, kisses Erica )
I: had this big photography auction tonight, then I went out with a bunch of people, I checked my messages and got this so sad message from Harry so bored out here. I thought I should come out and at least see how he was doing. Thank you for the gorgeous flowers by the way. They were so huge.
MARIN: So how are you guys? Oh, this is too sweet. You're making pancakes? Awwww. And you're both in your pj's. Now I feel I'm interrupting.
ERICA: Don't be silly. You know I never sleep and this one doesn't sleep either. It's. .What's in the A quart of matzoh ball soup for Harry. I know it's not the remedy for heart problems but it is low But high sodium.
MARIN: ( reaches into the bag ) A quart of matzoh ball soup for Harry. I know it's not the remedy for heart problems but it is low ( hating to correct her ) But high sodium.
ERICA: ( hating to correct her ) But high sodium.
MARIN: Oh, sorry. Stupid. For Mom, your favorite raisin-bread. And for My favorite Vodka.
MARIN: ( into phone ) Hello? No I'm here, babe. Made record time. Everyone's still there?
ERICA: So, Mar, now that you're here, why don't you finish the pancakes and I'll get back to work.
MARIN: Mom! I just got here, hold on.
MARIN: So your ex-husband stood me up today. We were supposed to have lunch at Barneys . He never showed up. Was he always like this?
ERICA: Honey, I don't know.
MARIN: This is what happens after a couple gets divorced, the kid inherits all the problems. Not that I'm a kid. So how are you, how do you feel? When can you go home? I really am gonna do a little work. . . you two catch up. . . and just flip these Hin like two seconds.
ERICA: I really am gonna do a little work. . . you two catch up. . . and just flip these Hin like two seconds.
ARRY: You don't want pancakes anymore?
ERICA: I, uh, I don't think I.I. gorgeous, next to him No. I don't.
MARIN: I'm breaking up with Harry.
ERICA: Why? What do you mean?
MARIN: 'Cause I met someone else.
ERICA: In the two days you've been gone?
MARIN: You know me, my life's crazy. I meet a thousand people everyday. Also, let's face it, the guy's insanely old for me. I'd be nuts to keep this going.
ERICA: True, but you know he is..
MARIN: I know. He's soulful when you don't expect it, right?
ERICA: It's unnerving.
MARIN: Now, Mom, if you could handle this, I was thinking. you and Harry.
ERICA: I can't handle it. Wouldn't want to handle it.
MARIN: But you're only saying that 'cause you think he and I have had sex.
ERICA: Yes. Lower your voice. Haven't you?
MARIN: ( whispering ) Never even got close. Swear to God. ( Erica digests this ) Just puttin' that out there.'cause for two people who are convinced they got life beat, there's was somethin' cooking in the kitchen last night other than
J: ER, on his CELL PHONE.
ULIAN: I've waited a reasonable amount of hours before calling you, even though you've been on my mind since I woke up at 5:15. I'm wondering when we could have dinner again? I have to work the next few nights and if we wait 'til next week, I know you'll chicken out so how's Friday? I know it's like a date night but I think that's good.
ERICA: Who is this?
ERICA: I'm kidding!
JULIAN: Can you meet me at The Grill at Okay. Yes. That's seems fine.
ERICA: Okay. Yes. That's seems fine.
I: I look forward to, seeing you too.
JULIAN: I look forward to, seeing you too.
MARIN: Okay, he's all yours.
ERICA: Stop that. How'd he take it?
MARIN: He just took care of it for me; He was an ace. Elegant. Said our fate was to be friends. .Oh my God. He was breaking up with me. He's a That's impossible, he wouldn't.
ERICA: That's impossible, he wouldn't.
MARIN: It doesn't matter, we're done and we both feel good about it. I gotta get back. Now Erica, try to think of this as the smartest thing you've ever done for yourself.
ERICA: ( into the phone ) ( from the beach ) Thought you'd like to know your daughter broke up with me.
HARRY: ( from the beach ) Thought you'd like to know your daughter broke up with me.
ERICA: I heard.
HARRY: Made up a story about meeting another guy. Guess I wasn't so cute with an IV in my arm.
ERICA: No, I think she really did meet someone else.
HARRY: Hey, it's alright. Her mother didn't like me anyway.
ERICA: ( smiles ) How 'bout I bring you out some lunch and a couple of blood
H: pressure pills?
ARRY: You're a great woman, Erica. Is this why my doctor is falling in love with you?
ERICA: I'm sorry.
HARRY: ( truly confused ) For what?
ERICA: I just kissed you.
HARRY: No, honey, I kissed you.
ERICA: I know that one was me.
HARRY: Try not to keep score.
HARRY: Soft lips.
ERICA: I'm so glad they still work.
HARRY: Well, well, now look who's got
ERICA: And you didn't even take Via-
HARRY: ( puts his finger on her Kiss me before you make it go away.
S: he kisses him long and sweet.
ERICA'S BED: They're kissing on it. The rain pelts against the windows as the sun goes down.
HARRY: This could be world class Having any doubts?
ERICA: ( as they kiss ) Me too.
HARRY: Me too.
ERICA: But so far the kissing is I'm not grading you, just mentioning it. Brilliant.
HARRY: Can't get past your damn turtleneck. . .
ERICA: ( breathless ) Cut it off. Please.
HARRY: You're beautiful.
HARRY: Open your eyes so I know you can hear me.
HARRY: What about birth control?
ERICA: ( thrilled ) Who's the lucky boy.
HARRY: ( thrilled ) Who's the lucky boy.
ERICA: I think we should take your blood
ERICA: It's irresponsible not to.
H: ARRY -' A MINUTE LATER sprawled out on the bed. Erica straddles him and whips the blood pressure cuff on his arm and pumps it hard. Like a warm Jewish Mother of a Dominatrix. He looks up at her, shaking his head.
HARRY: Nobody but you would. . .
ERICA: Yeah.so you're lucky.
ERICA: ( ecstatic ) One twenty over eighty!!! Baby!
INSIDE: We are CLOSE ON ERICA'S FACE - UPSIDE DOWN, hanging off the side of the bed. She's sweaty, flushed, overwhelmed.
ERICA: Oh my God, I do like sex.
HARRY: You certainly do.
ERICA: Wow. So this is what you're supposed to do on a rainy afternoon.
ERICA: I really thought I was sorta closed for business. Just never expected this.
HARRY: ( nods ) Nothin's ever surprised me more.
HARRY: This is crazy. I can't remember the last time I cried. I think I'm overwhelmed.
ERICA: ( crying with him ) Me too. That's the perfect word.
HARRY: Baby, I had sex three days after a heart attack and I didn't die!
HARRY: That's gotta be some kind of record.
ERICA: ( wiping her tears ) Let's not brag about this to our doctor, okay?
HARRY: Honey I may not be many things but one - thing I am is a gentleman.
HARRY: Erica, Erica, Erica. You know I'm not good at being monogamous, right?
ERICA: Monogamous? Please, I hardly know
C: ozy. Candles light the room. It's still raining.
HARRY: So there I was at nineteen, in New York, by myself, and I'd never seen snow before and I didn't have enough money for the bus, so I had to walk. Had no idea how far it was and I'm talking blizzard and I'm in sneakers.
ERICA: Awwwww,. . .
ERICA: ( disoriented ) Hello? I mean.Hello. ( turns phone upside down ) Mom, you guys okay out there?
MARIN: Mom, you guys okay out there?
ERICA: We're fine. Why? What's going on?
MARIN: What do you mean, it's like a hurricane. The news said the winds are like a zillion miles an hour.
ERICA: Oh, that. Oh, no, we're fine.
MARIN: Are you having sex? Tell the truth. You are, aren't you.
ERICA: Absolutely not. No. That is not going on now.
MARIN: Oh my God, you already did it. Was it amazing?
ERICA: I have to go.
MARIN: Just tell me, was it amazing?
ERICA: Yes and thank you for the wonderful
ERICA: ( to Harry ) Am I interested in buying aluminum siding. . .
HARRY: Really? Marin's selling aluminum siding?
LATER: Harry and Erica SIT ON STOOLS AT THE KITCHEN ISLAND, drinking wine and eating scrambled eggs right out of the pan. Candles light the room.
HARRY: But why Paris?
ERICA: I just always wanted to write a play that ended there.
HARRY: ( slightly insulted ) Excuse me. What do you call this? Eating eggs by candlelight in our robes after.
HARRY: So where do you like to eat in Paris? E
RICA: Oh, I love this place called Le Balzar, it's just a little bistro on the Left Bank, best roast chicken in the universe.
HARRY: You'd be fun to go to Paris with.
ERICA: It's a great city to stay up all night in. When's your birthday?
HARRY: Mine's in January. So, how 'bout if we still know each other by then we go to Paris for our birthdays.
ERICA: Mine's in January. So, how 'bout if we still know each other by then we go to Paris for our birthdays.
HARRY: ( a beat, then ) Maybe. . .
ERICA: Oh. Sorry. You just. I have no idea how to do this.be intimate but not.The color is draining from your face. Okay, look, I'm gonna pee,take one of your blood pressure pills then when I get back, let's not talk
HARRY: You're the funniest girl I ever had sex with.
ERICA: That's somethin'.
HARRY: Honey. ?
HARRY: I think I'm gonna go back to my room.let you sleep.
ERICA: Let me sleep? Oh, right.you usually send the girls home. . .but I am home. I'm an old dog, you' know.
HARRY: I'm an old dog, you' know.
ERICA: Hey, it's perfectly. .. whatever. Good night. This was..This was a great night. For me.
HARRY: Me too. At one point I even thought soul mates, you know.
HARRY: I'd like to try sleeping with you.
I: Erica hesitates, then moves to one side of the bed and as Harry climbs in next to her we:
HARRY: ( grabs his watch, blinks ) Can you see this?
ERICA: Not really but it looks like it says eleven.
HARRY: ( slips on his glasses ) It is eleven.
ERICA: It can't be, that would mean we slept eight hours.
HARRY: They turn and finally look at each other. Both look wrinkled, messy haired, a little wiped.
HARRY: How ya doin' Ace? Whoa Nelly.little dizzy.
ERICA: Okay, just stay still, here's the clicker. You know you have a doctor's appointmQnt in an hour.
HARRY: ( she turns ) You are a woman to love.
ERICA: You are woman to love. What the hell does that mean?
JULIAN: Okay, buddy, I'm sending you home. These past few days have done wonders for you.
HARRY: Yeah, I've been working on that stair thing. I can do it by the way.
J: Do what?
ULIAN: Do what?
HARRY: ( quickly ) Climb a flight of stairs. Several times
JULIAN: Way to go. How's Erica?
HARRY: ( caught ) I know you must know her name by Yes, I do. Erica, as it turns out is an amazing woman. Does whatever she can to make me happy. Really. Turns out she's very giving.
JULIAN: I know you must know her name by Yes, I do. Erica, as it turns out is an amazing woman. Does whatever she can to make me happy. Really. Turns out she's very giving.
HARRY: Yes, I do. Erica, as it turns out is an amazing woman. Does whatever she can to make me happy. Really. Turns out she's very giving.
HARRY: Very giving.
JULIAN: ( looking away ) Yeah, well that's wonderful. I think she's wonderful. I think she's wonderful too.
HARRY: I think she's wonderful too.
JULIAN: ( gathering his things ) Give her my best.
HARRY: Julian. Thanks for everything.
JULIAN: You're gonna be okay.
HARRY: ( touching his tears ) What the.? This is the second time I've done this now. I get overcome or something. . .
JULIAN: It's very common to become emotional after having an episode like you've had. Everything takes on a new meaning.
HARRY: ( wiping his tears ) So it's not crazy for a man to do something entirely out of character after having a heart attack?
JULIAN: ( handing him Kleenex ) Like crying?
HARRY: Yeah and totally changing their tastes. Like suddenly really liking something they never thought they could like.ever.and I'm talking really liking it. It's.unnerving.
JULIAN: I think you can expect just about anything right now. People have done some wild things after having a heart attack.selling businesses, getting divorced, moving. Some people say it saved their lives.
HARRY: But most people go back to being themselves, right? I'll go back to being me, won't I?
J: We'll see.
ULIAN: We'll see.
HARRY: ( on his cell ) Hey. What'd he say?
ERICA: Hey. What'd he say?
HARRY: He said you're wonderful.
ERICA: No, really, what'd he say.How are you?
HARRY: He said I'm good..that I can go.
. ERICA: ( obviously conflicted ) Oh. So. Congratulations. That's really. . . great.
HARRY: Yeah, he said. by tomorrow for absolute sure. You think you can deal with me for one more night?
HARRY: ( big breath ) Okay, here goes.
ERICA: Here goes what?
HARRY: Here goes me singing to you. Bought my own music.
ERICA: You knew they had karaoke?
HARRY: Baby, it's why we're here. .
HARRY: This is for you, Ace. wish me luck.
HARRY: ( sings ) I wish you bluebirds in the spring. To Give your heart a song to sing. And then a kiss, but more than this. I wish
HARRY: Don't want to blow this part.
HARRY: ( sings ) Et en juillet une limonade.Pour vous refroidir dans quelque lefy
ERICA: ( holding some cigars ) Here you go, you can have these back now. ( Harry looks confused ) I confiscated them your first night ( smells them ) Thank you darlin' .
HARRY: ( smells them ) Thank you darlin' .
ERICA: Try not to smoke them. And I packed you a sandwich, just in case your blood sugar got low. And some of that iced-tea you like, and a nonfat, low cholesterol cookie. And a peach.
HARRY: what a doll. Got something else?
ERICA: Something to remember me by.
HARRY: There is that.
ERICA: And hey, we'll always have Paris.
HARRY: Honey, no words can ever express my gratitude for taking me in and taking care of me and.
ERICA: Hey, your heart attack could be the best thing that ever happened to me.
HARRY: ( kisses her quickly, even I love ya.
ERICA: I love you too.if that's what you said. I don't know if it ends in 'ya' if it's an official I love you but.
HARRY: You're not like anybody.
ERICA: Neither are you.
E: I knew you'd call.
RICA: I knew you'd call.
MARIN: Who? It's me.
INTERCUT: What's wrong?
ERICA: What's wrong?
MARIN: I had breakfast with Dad this morning and we're talking and he starts looking all weir~ and then he tells me he met someone three weeks ago and it's "really something and then he He tells me he's getting married. Why am I reacting this way? I'm almost thirty years old. Yes, I'm crying, leave me alone.
ERICA: Who's he marrying?
MARIN: I don't know. Some chick he met three weeks ago. She's four years older than me and she's an Ear, Nose and Throat Doctor. Has he lost his mind? I have a huge auction tonight. Why do I have to be the one to deal with this? Can you please come in? I'm rea:~y upset, my shrink'~ away for two weeks.I know you're working but. . .please. . ?
ERICA: Hold on, I'm losing you. Okay, so you'll let Harry know I'll be. in the city tonight and he can reach me on my cell.if he wants. Okay? Aw shit.
MARIN: Look, I get that he has a right to get remarried, but he doesn't even know her and she's like my age. You know what that's like? It's like beyond creepy. And I know he's not replacing me so why does it feel like he is? This is crazy, right? Crying like this.
ERICA: Honey, if he's replacing anyone, it's me. And all the statistics say divorced men almost always remarry. That's just the way they're built.
MARIN: ( slipping on her dress ) Mom, you want to know the answer to the big mystery of my life? Why I'm always with the wrong guy? This is why. Because the wrong guy can't do this to you. You have some control with the wrong guy. This thing I'm feeling right now. This is my big fear.that some guy could get me unglued like this, like nothing's connected. And this is just my father! I'm just not strong enough to handle this kind of drama.
ERICA: The drama in life is what makes you No, it's what makes you strong. You've never really understood this,but we're not all like you.
MARIN: No, it's what makes you strong. You've never really understood this,but we're not all like you.
ERICA: Since when do you take an antidepressant?
MARIN: Ugggh, mother, do you know anyone who Yes. Me.
ERICA: Yes. Me.
MARIN: I rest my case.
MARIN: Mom, can you do one other really big thing for me? Just say yes.
ERICA: ( taking two Turns ) Anything bubee.
MARIN: Will you come out to dinner tonight with me and Dad and the fiance?
ERICA: Absolutely not. No.
MARIN: Please. He wants me to meet her and I can not go alone. I already asked him if you could come and he said it was fine and she said it was fine. Look, you're gonna have to meet her too, so, we might as well meet her together. Come on, you know you can handle it.
ARIN: Okay. That's it. See that look on your face. That's the gene I didn't
MARIN: Good evening and welcome to Sotheby's and this evening's sale of Impressionistic and Modern Art. Bidders should know that the auctioneer may open bidding on any lot below the reserve by placing a bid on behalf of the seller. Okay.Let's start with Lot I, the Bonnard drawing. And $5.000 starting with my bidders, $5000 is bid, 5500, 6000, 6500 is mine, 7000 gentleman's bid, 7500 is here, 8000 on the phone. . .
ON ERICA: in the back of the room, watching with pride and worry. She slips out her cell, checks her messages. Her phone lights up and tells her she has "0" Voice Mail.
JULIAN: Guess I got stood up.
WAITER: Would you like to order or.?
JULIAN: Why not, I put. on the tie and everything. And can you bring me another. . .
AVE: ( to Erica ) I've had a big week Dave, forgot how these slip right down. I'm fine. So, Kristen, where'd you go to. ( burps ) medical school? Excuse me.
ERICA: I've had a big week Dave, forgot how these slip right down. I'm fine. So, Kristen, where'd you go to. medical school? Excuse me.
KRISTEN: University of Pennsylvania.
ERICA: I went to school in Philadelphia Bryn Mawr girl.
DAVE: Bryn Mawr girl.
KRISTEN: That's amazing. My Mom went to Bryn Mawr . . .
MARIN: Wow. So not only are you marrying my father but our mothers went to the same college.
MARIN: Anyone mind?
KRISTEN: Actually I do.
MARIN: Okay, I'll just..have one. So, this isn't going badly so far is it? I mean for a totally surreal situation like this.
DAVE: Shall we order?
KRISTEN: ( peruses menu ) Erica, do I like duck?
DAVE: ( peruses menu ) Erica, do I like duck?
ERICA: Yes. It's rabbit you hate. I'll give you a list of everything he likes and dislikes.
DAVE: Let's let her figure some things out on her own.
ERICA: I didn't mean those things, Dave. She did go to medical school.
MARIN: ( pointing to herself and Kristen ) Hey, not in front of the kids.
ERICA: ( polishing off her I will tell you this.Dave has one truly great love in his life.
KRISTEN: Really? What's that?
ERICA: His balls.
DAVE: Okay, I forgot to mention she can't drink hard liquor. Why did you order her a Martini?
E: What? It's not true? The man can not watch TV or read without the hand down the pants Here's my advice after 21 years I say who cares, they're his balls,let him enjoy 'em.
ERICA: What? It's not true? The man can not watch TV or read without the hand down the pants Here's my advice after 21 years I say who cares, they're his balls,let him enjoy 'em.
MARIN: ( chokes ) I think I swallowed my olive, whole.
M: OVING IN ON ERICA as the room comes alive again. Her eyes follow Harry as he is seated only one table away, his back to Erica, his Date facing her. Marin hasn't seen him. Erica tries her hardest to act normal but apparently isn't.
MARIN: Mom, you okay?
ERICA: Yeah, fine. You know what? Maybe I need a little
RICA: You know what? Maybe I need a little
HARRY: Hello. Harry.
ERICA: Hello. Harry.
ERICA: Oh, God, I'm so stupid.
ERICA: Intercut Harry and Erica on their cells, a block apart.
HARRY: ( walking quickly ) Slow down. You want to kill me?
ERICA: Harry, I gotta go.
HARRY: Erica, she's just a friend.
ERICA: Yeah, she looks like a buddy kind of a girl.
HARRY: Come on, it's just a dinner.
ERICA: Look, Harry, here's the problem. I really like you.
HARRY: I really like you.
ERICA: Yeah, but I love you like you. I do. I love you.
HARRY: I think maybe you should consider that you're in love with the idea of being in love.
ERICA: o you? Okay. Oh, God. I'm like the dumb girl who doesn't get it. I've never been the dumb girl before. It ain't so great.
D: o you? Okay. Oh, God. I'm like the dumb girl who doesn't get it. I've never been the dumb girl before. It ain't so great.
HARRY: Let's just calm down. This was just a a meal with a friend.
ERICA: Did you know I called you seven hours ago?
HARRY: I was gonna call you. I've been jamming all day, it's my first day back.
ERICA: Uh-huh. . .
HARRY: I had these plans before I met you. But I do like seeing you. I do. I'm always surprised by it.
ERICA: What was I thinking?
HARRY: Maybe you weren't thinking for once and look what a good time we had. Let's not ruin something great.
ERICA: Harry, I won't be good at this.
HARRY: At what?
ERICA: Acting like I don't care.
HARRY: I have never lied to you. I have always told you some version of the truth.
ERICA: ( freaking on that one ) The truth doesn't have versions.
HARRY: Can you cut me a little slack? My life's been turned upside down.
ERICA: Yeah. Mine too.
HARRY: Then let's each get our bearings.
ERICA: I don't want my bearings. I've had my bearings my whole fucking life. I felt something with you that. Oh, you don't want to-
HARRY: Yes I do. Tell me.
ERICA: I felt something with you, I didn't know really existed. You know what that's like after a twenty year marriage? To feel something for another person that's so off the charts, that - Okay, not your problem. This is why I'm not good in relationships. You know writers are like teachers, those who can - do, those who can't - write romantic comedies where THIS does not happen in the third act.and it certainly does not happen to a 55 year old woman. In the play I'll be 36 so it won't be as pathetic. I'm just too old to feel crushed.I've written this feeling but I never really got it. You know what this is? This is heart broken. How's that for impervious?
HARRY: You're killin' me.
ERICA: I just wish it had lasted more than a Me too.
HARRY: Me too.
ERICA: That's a horrible thing to say. The life I had before I met you. I knew how to do that, could do that forever. Now look at me.what do I do with all this?
HARRY: Can we talk tomorrow?
ERICA: What for? I saw your friend you were having dinner with, if that's what you want, it's never going to work with me. Look at me. I'm a middle aged woman, don't let this brown hair fool you, I don't have a real brown hair on my head, I'm almost all grey.that would freak you out, wouldn't it? And I have. high cholesterol and my back hurts every morning and I'm post menopausal and I have osteoperosis and I'm sure arthritis is just around the corner and I know you've seen my vericose veins. Let's face it man, that's not quite the buzz you're lookin' for.
ERICA: And you know what? Everyday, I'm gettin' older. ..just like you.
HARRY: Erica turns. This is his chance.
HARRY: I just. the truth is. I don't know how to be a boyfriend.
ERICA: That's what you have to say after all this? You don't know how to be a That's not a small thing.
HARRY: That's not a small thing.
ERICA: Are we done?
HARRY: I don't know.
HARRY: ( winces )
HARRY: Oh, God.
NURSE: Came in by cab, 15 minutes of chest pain, no nauseau, some shortness of breath, was hospitalized a week ago with a coronary thrombosis.
DR. MARTINEZ: Hang a nitro drip.
HARRY: You can't. I took Viagra.
DR. MARTIINEZ: You have been through this before. Give him 5 mgs of Metoprolol. You h~ving chest pain right now?
H: No, and the pain I was having was sharp, not like before.
ARRY: No, and the pain I was having was sharp, not like before.
HARRY: Having a fight with someone. A woman. Can a woman give you chest pain?
DR. MARTINEZ: Are you kidding? Love hurts, haven't you Yeah, but so far, I've only given pain, I never got any.
HARRY: Yeah, but so far, I've only given pain, I never got any.
DR. MARTINEZ: ( confused at how literal All right, well you're battin' a thousand here. Your enzymes look perfect, your EKG is normal and the pain doesn't sound like the kind of pain we worry about. I think what you experienced was normal chest pain associated with stress.
HARRY: DR. MARTINEZ
DR. MARTINEZ: And incase you haven't heard, that can give you a heart attack. Mr. Langer, I donlt know what you're up to gallivanting out and about at this hour, but if you were my Dad, I'd make sure you were home, in bed, recuperating.
HARRY: If you were my Dad. Hi. It's Erica. I'm not here so leave a message.
ERICA'S VOICE: Hi. It's Erica. I'm not here so leave a message.
HARRY: ( grabbing his chest )
BLACK SCREEN: A LIGHT POPS ON and Erica ENTERS HER BEDROOM, crying. She flops down on her bed, picks up her phone, grabs her glasses, puts them on, doesn't realize they're Harry's. She dials. Voice Mail tells her she has One Message. She sits up, excited. J
ULIAN'S VOICE: Erica, Hi, it's Julian. It's about 8:20, I'm in the restaurant.just Wondering if you're.
ERICA: wakes up. As soon as her eyes open, she bursts into tears. While in the SHOWER, the crying never stops. While she EATS BREAKFAST, a downpour. Running ON THE BEACH, she's wailing. Back at the "COMPUTER, she's sobbing as her hands fly over the keys. An actual boo hoo can be heard. At NIGHT, laptop in bed, Erica writes, eating a bagel, wearing Harry's glasses and a pair of wrinkled pajamas, FRENCH MUSIC plays in the BG. At this point, she doesn't eVen" pay attention to her tears, just wipes and types when out of nowhere she receives an INSTANT MESSAGE from HARRY. He writes: Do I hear French Music? Shocked, she sits up, tries to fix her hair.
H: INT. HARRY'S BEDROOM - SAME TIME Harry sits up in bed, staring at his laptop, wearing Erica's glasses, a pair of pajamas and a three day growth. A thermometer is propped in his mouth. He writes: R U there? She answers: Yes. Hello. He writes: How are ya? She writes: Great. as, she wipes her tears on her sleeve. She answers: Pouring out of me now. Go figure.
E: He types: I miss y .. He stops, thinks before sending. Then, on his side, he receives: Actually just running out. Take care. Harry deletes the I miss y. and instead writes: U 2. Erica slides down in her bed, wiped.
HARRY: Lowell, I'm goin' out.
LOWELL: ( confused ) Okay. Don't forget to put some clothes on.
HARRY: I mean, I should go out, shouldn't I? Since .when don't I go out? Just cause some Emergency Room Doctor tells me to stay in bed, doesn't mean I have to turn into a monk.
LOWELL: Is there something you'd like me to do for you, Mr. Langer?
HARRY: Well, no, just.well, what are you Watching Lucy.
LOWELL: Watching Lucy.
HARRY: Would you hate making me something to eat?
HARRY: Funny women are adorable, don't you I never really thought about it.
LOWELL: I never really thought about it.
HARRY: Neither had I, but think about it. Funny's a unique thing in a woman. It's fun to be around.
LOWELL: There's some reason we've been watching these two for 5O years.
HARRY: Exactly. It lasts. We're not sittin' here watchin' Mamie Van Doren reruns.
LOWELL: No we're not. You feeling okay?
HARRY: I don't think I've slept one night since I've been home. Every little ache and pain scares the shitout of me.can't get a handle on my emotional life, don't know what I want, don't know if what I felt was because I just had a heart attack or was real. Plus, I feel needy. I never used that word in my life.
LOWELL: Nothing even close.
HARRY: That's right, buddy, I'm a mess. And I'm no good at it. Those are very nice pajamas, by the way. Did they used to be mine?
LOWELL: Yes but you gave them to me, you said you never wore them.
HARRY: I know. But why would I do that? They're so elegant. Nice piping.
LOWELL: Mr. Langer, you're always giving away beautiful things.
HARRY: Awwwww. How did I get like this? I'm gonna shut my eyes for a few minutes. Keep Lucy on.
MARIN: Mom, we're going into town.
MARIN: Are you crying? I didn't know you did that.
ERICA: Yeah, it's my new thing. I've gotten abnormally great at it.
MARIN: ( sitting on the step with her ) Is it Harry?
ERICA: Seems I gotta learn how to do that love 'em and leave 'em stuff.
MARIN: Fucking men. You don't care when I say fuck, do you?
ERICA: Not really. Sometimes. Not right So now you get my theory about love? You gotta self protect. It's too dangerous.
MARIN: So now you get my theory about love? You gotta self protect. It's too dangerous.
ERICA: Marin, that theory. how can I put this so your feelings won't get hurt. It's just so crazy, it makes me want to SCREAMMMMMMMMMMM!!!!
MARIN: And how would you put it if you wanted to hurt my feelings?
ERICA: Listen to me. you cannot hide from love for the rest of your life because maybe it won't work out and maybe you'll become unglued. That's not a way to live.
MARIN: So you're telling me you're happy right now? This is good what happened to you?
ERICA: No. This was bad. But for the three days it was good, it was electrifying.
ERICA: I think you must consider the possibility that we are more alike than you realize. I let someone in and I had the time of my I've never had the time of my life.
MARIN: ( tearful ) I've never had the time of my life.
ERICA: I know. And bubbee, I say this from the deepest part of my heart. . . what the fuck are you waiting "for?
LOWELL: ( as Harry passes )
H: aving fun?
HARRY: Not quite.
ZOE: I got you something great at the farm stand.
J: Zoe fully opens the door revealing Julian holding a bouquet of fresh cut flowers.
JULIAN: These are for you to give me when you apologize.
ERICA: Julian, I hope you know I'm mortified by my behavior. I was going to get in touch with you, send you a note or something.
JULIAN: A note? That's a little chilly.
ERICA: I'm embarrassed. I just haven't been myself lately. What can I say?
JULIAN: Just tell me you're sorry.
ERICA: I am sorry.
JULIAN: Then you could kiss me.
ERICA: Kiss you? ulian nods.
ERICA: You'll forgive me if I kiss' you?
JULIAN: Think so.
JULIAN: No one on earth would forgive you for that kiss May I?
JULIAN: ( still holding her, whispers ) I forgive you.
JULIAN: It's the best thing you've ever written.
ERICA: It is?
JULIAN: It's wonderful. It's sweet. It's smart. It's funny.
JULIAN: How great is it that I'm not intimidated by your brilliance?
JULIAN: Must we go through this every time? Come here.
PRETTY GIRL: I'm totally excited about this audition. It's such a great part. It's supporting but she's a really funny character. There's this totally hilarious scene where she's dating this like chauvinist older guy and just as they're about to do it, the guy moans and she thinks he's just really into her, right? Except he's having a heart attack and she's like creeped out and her mother, who basically despises the guy, rushes in, gives him CPR and saves his life.
A: part of "The Sister".
CTRESS: Look, we're four sophisticated people. Why can't we all stay for the weekend?
HARRY: I need to talk to you.
HARRY: Got a minute?
BACKSTAGE: Erica and Harry stand in front of a BACKDROP OF THE BEACH.
HARRY: So your play's about us?
ERICA: No, it's about me.
HARRY: Am I in it?
ERICA: A guy like you is in it but he's not you.
HARRY: What happens to this guy who's ..not me?
ERICA: Haven't totally decided. He can live or he can die.
HARRY: What are you leaning towards?
ERICA: ( Harry reacts ) It's funnier.
HARRY: He dies of a funny heart attack?
ERICA: He's sort of a schmuck who screwed around with our heroine, so it won't be too sad.
HARRY: Schmucks are people too you know. Death doesn't seem a little harsh?
ERICA: I just went where the story took me. It's a work of fiction, Harry. Really.just stuff I made up.
STAGE MANAGER: ( approaching ) Erica, we're ready to do the hospital, 'Do You Take Viagra scene. Should we wait for you?
HARRY: So I'm going to be the laughing stock of Harry, he's not you. He's a version of the truth of you. So to speak.
ERICA: Harry, he's not you. He's a version of the truth of you. So to speak.
STAGE MANAGER: Sorry to interrupt again but Dave wants to know, when Henry says, "I love ya", you want that to be 'Ya', not 'You',
ERICA: We now HEAR Louis Armstrong's La Vie En Rose play throughout the theater. The BEACH backing is 'raised and an EIFFEL TOWER BACKING is lowered behind them. They both try to ignore the music, but it's impossible.
E: Well, you look really nice. You feeling all right?
RICA: Well, you look really nice. You feeling all right?
HARRY: You know it isn't like I wanted to stop seeing you. We could've carried on a fun thing for awhile. Why is it you dames want all or nothing?
ERICA: I don't know, we're just goofy when it comes to love. Look, Harry, if it's all right with you, I'd like to be friends
HARRY: I'm not ready to be your friend. How's Fine. I understand.
ERICA: Fine. I understand.
HARRY: Anyway, do you actually buy that horse shit.. .that men and women can be friends once they've had sex?
ERICA: I'm friends with my ex-husband, but then again, we didn't just have sex.
HARRY: We didn't just have sex either.
ERICA: Then what was it? Love to know.
HARRY: Can I e-mail it to you when I figure it This is perfect. I have given the `Can't We Be friends' speech for 40 years. I think I invented the 'Can't We Be Friends' speech. But you know what,now I get why they never went for it. You dames got one thing right. Sometimes sex does change everything. Call me crazy, but I just don't see us out on the town, being pals, having dinner, 'cause I'd bet you anything, at some point, one of us will have very unfriend like thoughts about the other then pass the bread becomes anything but pass the bread. You get what I'm saying?
ERICA: You don't want to be friends.
HARRY: Not "don't". Can't. Can't be friends. Doesn't work that way. Okay, I'm moving into another phase of this thing. I'm mad at you. It almost feels good.
ERICA: I think I'm mad at you too.
HARRY: Excellent. 'Cause I don't like thinking about you so much and worrying about how you are and if I ruined your life or.
ERICA: You've worried about me?
HARRY: Yes honey, the schmuck who deserves to die, worries about you.
ERICA: Well, doll, I'm doing fine. So you don't have to work that shift anymore.
STAGE MANAGER: Erica, they want you to take a look at the costumes for the dancing Henry's. These gonna work for you?
ARRY: God is a woman, I know that now. No man would punish me like this.
WOMAN JOGGER: You never change, do you?
HARRY: Do you know me or are you just talking to me as "man" in general, the beast women love to hate.
WOMAN JOGGER: No, no, I know you Harry.
HARRY: Oh. Don't tell me. I dated your daughter. Right? I broke her heart then she married some hard working Joe on the rebound, has three great kids. What is so funny?
WOMAN JOGGER: You dated me and you broke my heart but after you I met the right guy. I've been married thirty-seven years, have four kids, eight grandkids and a ninth on the
HARRY: I dated you. .? Did we. ever.?
WOMAN JOGGER: No.we did not.
HARRY: Can you give me hint? A year? A The sixties. You took me to Shea Stadium.
WOMAN JOGGER: The sixties. You took me to Shea Stadium.
HARRY: To a Mets game? I must've really liked you.
WOMAN JOGGER: You took me to see The Beatles.
HARRY: Oh, God, I really liked you. You're Sandra. ..Cook. We did. We saw The Beatles together. How the hell have you been? What happened to you?
SANDRA: Well, let's see, after we stopped going out, I went back to school, got my doctorate in marine biology, went around the world a few times, met the man of my dreams at Oxford, married him, we lived in London for 25 years. I wrote and taught, we raised 3 sons and a daughter. I've just finished my ninth book and now I'm training for my first marathon. Now, I must confess, I actually remember the very last thing you ever said to me.
DR. MARTINEZ: Mr. Langer. Back so soon.
HARRY: This is it, I'm dyin', I've had 20 minutes of severe chest pain, nausea, shortness of breath, blood pressure's gotta be 170 over 100. Give me the nitrate, I didn't take Plug me in to the EKG, I need an aspirin, I'm taking 2 beta blockers, blood thinner, Lipitor, Procardia and if I were you, I'd be pounding my chest. Ow!
MALE NURSE: You're a doctor, huh?
HARRY: Just a very sick man.
DR. MARTINEZ: Mr. Langer, your diagnosis although fascinating, was entirely That's impossible.
HARRY: That's impossible.
DR. MARTINEZ: Your realize a severe anxiety attack can masquerade as a heart attack.
HARRY: So I'm nuts? Perfect! The one thing I'm not taking pills for.
DR. MARTINEZ: If you don't want ,to end up in here every week, I suggest you do whatever it takes to decompress. Try something with me, okay? Close your eyes.now give yourself a visual image of something that gives you a feeling of peace and serenity.
HARRY: I don't know. A hammock.
DR. MATINEZ: Okay, good.what else..?
HARRY: Palm trees.clear blue water.
DR. MARTINEZ: Anybody there with you?
HARRY: Yes. Beautiful women.in thongs.
DR. MARTINEZ: ( disgusted ) Okay. What else do you see, feel, taste.
HARRY: A margarita.a Cuban cigar. ..miles of soft beach.. .
DR. MARTINEZ: Keep going.you're doing great.
C: AMERA CONTINUES DOWN to street level. Couples walk by, bundled up against the cold. Harry ENTERS FRAME.
MARIN: I couldn't believe you were calling from So great to see you.
HARRY: You couldn't look better.
MARIN: Thank you. Come on in.
HARRY: No, no, I just wanted to stop by and say hi and tell you I'm sorry if I ever did anything to you that wasn't on the up and up or.
MARIN: What do you mean? You were great to me.
HARRY: I was?
MARIN: That's refreshing. Good. Well, I don't know what you've done to yourself but you look absolutely radiant.
HARRY: That's refreshing. Good. Well, I don't know what you've done to yourself but you look absolutely radiant.
MARIN: I'm three months pregnant, that might have something to do with it.
HARRY,: Really? Who's ..the, lucky guy?
MARIN: My husband, hold on, he really wants to meet you. Harry Langer, my husband, Danny Yellin.
MARIN: Harry Langer, my husband, Danny Yellin.
DANNY: ( shaking Harry's hand ) I've heard so much about you.
HARRY: I bet.. .
DANNY: Yeah, with Hthe play and all.
ARRY: I'm famous,huh?
MARIN: Just to us. In every interview my Mom does, she always says she made you up.
HARRY: So the guy in the play, he doesn't make it, does he?
DANNY: He basically dies at the end of the second act, but it's very funny.
HARRY: Was hopin' she'd give me a reprieve, but.
MARIN: Yeah, well.
HARRY: Yeah. Okay.Best of luck, kids.
HARRY: How is she?
MARIN: She's. . . Really good. Up to her old
HARRY: Now if I wanted to see her.how would that go over?
MARIN: ( encouragingly ) Only one way to find out, except she's out of town right now.
HARRY: Oh yeah? Where is she?
MARIN: Paris. She left two days ago, for her birthday. But she'll be back next week.
HARRY: ANOTHER ELEVATOR.OPENS And a clean shaven, dapper looking Harry steps off, cashmere coat, gorgeous scarf. CAMERA FOLLOWS HIM out of the elevator and through a BEAUTIFUL LOBBY OF A HOTEL then right onto THE STREET. CAMERA does a 360 and we catch glimpses of PARIS AT NIGHT. CAMERA SETTLES ON HARRY just as the LIGHTS OF THE EIFFEL TOWER POP ON, sending a flood of golden lights high into the night sky directly behind him.
ANOTHER ELEVATOR.OPENS: And a clean shaven, dapper looking Harry steps off, cashmere coat, gorgeous scarf. CAMERA FOLLOWS HIM out of the elevator and through a BEAUTIFUL LOBBY OF A HOTEL then right onto THE STREET. CAMERA does a 360 and we catch glimpses of PARIS AT NIGHT. CAMERA SETTLES ON HARRY just as the LIGHTS OF THE EIFFEL TOWER POP ON, sending a flood of golden lights high into the night sky directly behind him.
HARRY: INT. LEFT BANK BISTRO - NIGHT Erica sits alone at a table in the back of the room, drinking a glass of wine. She looks vibrant. She glances up from her drink and sees what looks like Harry making his way around the tables. She leans to the side for a better look, to make sure it's him. It is him and he's corning right toward her. Her stomach sinks, her mind races. and before she can come up with a single thought that makes any sense there he is.
HARRY: ( proud of himself ) I knew you'd be here.
ERICA: You did?
HARRY: I've come a long way to see you, You mean we're not bumping into each other..? You came here to see Yes, I did. I'm aware it was a bold move, one of those impulses that grabs you,' but.so far, we're okay; right?
ERICA: You mean we're not bumping into each other..? You came here to see Yes, I did. I'm aware it was a bold move, one of those impulses that grabs you,' but.so far, we're okay; right?
HARRY: Yes, I did. I'm aware it was a bold move, one of those impulses that grabs you,' but.so far, we're okay; right?
ERICA: Well, uh, I mean, I'm just.
HARRY: I'll take that as a 'Yes'.
ERICA: You want a glass of wine or I was just gonna give you a kiss Oh, Okay.
HARRY: I was just gonna give you a kiss Oh, Okay.
ERICA: Oh, Okay.
HARRY: I remember you said if we still know each other we should go to Paris for our birthdays, well, we still know each other..".
ERICA: That's true, but, Harry, I haven't heard from you in six months.
HARRY: I know but I've certainly been thinking about you. There's a lot I have to say. First thing is. I'm not mad at you Good, 'cause I'm not mad at you anymore either.
ERICA: Good, 'cause I'm not mad at you anymore either.
HARRY: That's a relief.since I did come all the way to France and everything. And. Happy Birthday.
ERICA: ( afraid of everything he could possibly say ) Thank you.
HARRY: And congratulations on your amazing It's been quite a ride. Funny, I thought maybe I'd hear from you when it opened. Where've you been?
ERICA: It's been quite a ride. Funny, I thought maybe I'd hear from you when it opened. Where've you been?
HARRY: After I saw you in the theater that afternoon, I had another "episode.
ERICA: Oh, I'm sorry.
HARRY: I was actually okay, but I was sure I was dying and the doctor in the ER said I needed to decompress. So I did. I walked out of there and changed my life, sold most of my businesses, packed my bags and moved to an island in the Caribbean.
E: That's where you've been all this time? In the Caribbean?
RICA: That's where you've been all this time? In the Caribbean?
HARRY: EXT. CARIBBEAN BEACH - FLASHBACK Harry lies on a chaise under a palm tree, drink in hand, Hawaiian shirt, shades. A steel drum plays in the distance.
BLACK SCREEN: A LIGHT POPS ON and we realize we are in HARRY'S CLOSET.
HARRY: maybe I could figure out how I got so screwed up.
H: ARRY ( V .O. )
HARRY: It took me six months to find them all. I visited 18 different states but I came the furthest to see you.
HARRY: Me either.
ERICA: I should have told you he was coming, but I was so engrossed in your story.
JULIAN: What story..?
HARRY: Oh, maybe another time. ..So. I guess I should've seen your play, then I would've Jknown how this ended.
ULIAN: Yeah, big twist, huh? So what are you doing over here, man?
HARRY: Just a uh, vacation.never been to Paris in January.
JULIAN: It's amazing to run into you. You look You do.
ERICA: You do.
HARRY: Haven't been on a gurney in six months so that's somethin'.
JULIAN: Well, I've just been to every store in the city, this woman is impossible to buy for. But I think I finally found the right
JULIAN: Happy Birthday baby.
ERICA: ( reaching for it ) I'll open it later.
HARRY: No, no, you know what, I'll let you two celebrate.
ERICA: Harry, stay.
HARRY: I can't really.
JULIAN: Why? You have somewhere to go?
JULIAN: To the forces of destiny that brought us together tonight.
JULIAN: What are you doing, you don't I'm in Paris, the second hand smoke will kill you anyway.
ERICA: I'm in Paris, the second hand smoke will kill you anyway.
JULIAN: She's very brilliant, but the woman can not hold her liquor.
ERICA: I like that about me.
BOTH GUYS: Me too.
ERICA: Now, if I were writing this, this is where I'd write, 'an awkward moment' .
HARRY: Honey, if you were writing this, I'd be dead.
HARRY: Never fails to amuse her.
JULIAN: No, Harry, please, let us.
HARRY: No, no, I insist. I crashed your At least let me buy you dinner on your birthday. What time does that say?
ERICA: ( squints ) I have no idea.
HARRY: ( feels around ) Wait,' I have my. . .
ERICA: ( reaching into her purse ) Me too.
HARRY: You think you look so handsome in You know how long I've been looking for those?
ERICA: You know how long I've been looking for those?
HARRY: Yes I do.
H: ( tucking away his glasses ) Once again.closure. ( reads his watch ) So it's only 5 in the afternoon in New York. What do they do around here for fun?
ARRY: ( tucking away his glasses ) Once again.closure. ( reads his watch ) So it's only 5 in the afternoon in New York. What do they do around here for fun?
BOTH GUYS: ( at the same time ) Want to dance?
HARRY: ( laughs at himself ) At the end of the day, I'm nothin' but a sap, a stupid old sap, standing on a bridge in Paris, crying my eyes out.
HARRY: ( almost amused ) Look who gets to be the girl.
HARRY: ( looking toward heaven ) Anything else. .
ERICA'S VOICE: Harry turns and sees Erica standing by a Cab with its motor running, snow falling on her hair and coat.
HARRY: Where's Julian?
ERICA: He went back to the hotel.
HARRY: How come?
ERICA: ( walking to him ) He said when he saw me with you, he knew I was still in love with you. What do you have to say about that?
HARRY: If it's true, my life just got Why'd you come here, Harry?
ERICA: Why'd you come here, Harry?
HARRY: Because I realized what I was feeling for you, have always felt for you, was something I didn't understand, like a language I didn't speak. It scared me so I did what I do. I snuck away. Turns out the heart attack was easy to get over. You were somethin' else. And when I went to see all those women, I found out I was never really present for any of them. And something inside me at some point, had just.shut off. That's when I think my heart gave out and you saved me. I finally get what it's all about. I'm 63 years old and I am in love for the first time in my life. And that's what I came here to say.
ERICA: Okay, this is the best birthday ever.
HARRY: I know I'm no spring chicken, I figure I only got another 30-40 years in me. Tops. But how 'bout we figure out a way to make this work.
ERICA: Okay? Okay! I'll take it.
HARRY: Okay? Okay! I'll take it.
HARRY: Honey, they're playing our song.
" HARRY: Langer, party of four.. .and a
