SPANGLISH: James L. Brooks
SHOOTING DRAFT: FADE IN: 1 INT. BEDROOM - MEDIUM CLOSE - MALE FORM - LATE AFTERNOON 1 A shape fills the lower portion of the screen. It is a man's back... a perfect back. good dark color, slim, muscular. LATIN MUSIC PLAYS. a song.. if you understood the words you would hear love confronted and considered in a very specific way.We are in a Mexico City suburb. The day is hot; small beads of sweat are seen on the man's back, the first indication that we are in slow motion..Perfect red fingernails come into view.and now a woman's hand goes beautifully to work.part sensual back scratch, part massage. The hand cups bits of the man's back, a strong thumb probes his spine, a long finger teases the very top of his ass in a cute finger-pirouette and then continues down and, as the hand rises once more to the top of his back for another trip down his upper body. MAIN TITLES BEGIN: Full titles, minute after minute of titles with some key dissolves helping us to represent some 30 minutes of time passage as the hand continues to scratch and rub, the man making sounds of pleasure. The hand is getting tired. Flirtatious no more, this is getting to be work.The unseen woman shakes the hand vigorously, the man says a single sound urging her to continue, the exhausted hand complies, then stops, then the unseen woman changes hands as TITLES CONTINUE...The new hand, wearing a wedding ring, goes to work then it too stops to rest..the man says something in Spanish.important for us because it will establish that there will be no subtitles and yet we understand perfectly that he is asking her to continue. She replies in Spanish lightheartedly, with a small and pretty laugh, that her hands are tired. We understand. The man tells her to continue. She continues, the rub now desultory and resentful. She stops for another rest. The man wants more and grabs forcibly at her hand his own hand coming into view for the first time. She says, in Spanish, with no particular anger, "you said you would never push me around again. If you do, I will somehow break your arm so you can rub your own back as high as you want." ( NOTE: All Spanish dialogue will be worked hard to provide something extra for the Spanish speaking..working in tidbits or extra exposition, jokes etc. ) For now, the man's tone changes, placating her to continue. Even as she resumes the massage they begin to have a domestic argument in Spanish. This is no longer a massage we envy. This back rub, going as it does from sex and hope to discord and alienation, will be our only full direct knowledge of their marriage.
NARRATOR: To Princeton University's Director of Admissions: In considering me for a scholarship you have asked for, and have every reason to expect, an essay from me about myself. And, as a clever high school graduate, I of course realize the subtext of this essay about who I am and why I want to enter Princeton, is actually to make clear to you why you should have me. I have gotten tips, from friends who have preceded me to college, that being a Latina, with my grades, list of activities and relative poverty, I am as good as in if I simply do the dance and work in a word like "bipolarization" every so often. And while I love dances this dance of self is one I am afraid to I prefer to write about my mother.
NARRATOR: For my mother, that afternoon eleven years ago was a watershed not because of my father's
NARRATOR: There was never any pretense that the gorgeous, vital, clever, temperamental animal that was my mother ever for a heartbeat considered having any life of her own. She ignored all her needs and was alive only for me. It was At the time.
GIRL: The girl and woman are enormously excited over this word even though, outside, her life's mate is being loaded into the back of a police car.( Note: Mexican police DO NOT duck the perpetrator's head WHEN LOADING THEM IN THE BACK SEAT..they just allow the concussion. ) It seems the mother will save her child the trauma of her father being carted off; but the police turn on their siren and the girl turns to see her father as the car pulls away. The child is stricken. A tear starts to form in her eye. Her mother acts quickly. We are about to see powerful emotion reversed by sheer force of will..the mother leans down, gives three quick kisses - power pecks - to the girl's cheeks and then an admonition in
MOTHER: Una lágrima.sola una sola.Haz la mejor possible.
NARRATOR: "One tear..only one.so make it a good one." This was my mother's instruction to me.
NARRATOR: My mother dealt with our considerable problems of survival by talking..Always she discovered her own best thoughts by sifting through her own words.
NARRATOR: Each night my mother promised me a wonderful life.. Each night I looked for a new expressive way to tell my mother how much I loved
NARRATOR: Desperation in her hands was our
AMERICAN PILOT: ( to girl ) How you doing?
GIRL: ( accented English ) Hi. How are you? I am fine.. ( she checks her book of ..happy, merry, joyful, glad, contented, frisky.
AMERICAN PILOT: ( to mother ) Are you her mother, sister..what?
NARRATOR: My mother's prayer for us, which she made me repeat exactly, represented a stunning look into our future. "Please God, let only the bad things change."
AMERICAN PILOT: How can I reach you? Address? Telephone? Por favor. Por favor.
NARRATOR: My mother had redefined her own passions. Blaming herself for the father she gave me, she would never again be lured by a man's rough edges..She had decided that goodness would be her catnip.
GIRL: ( exulting ) ( more emphatically )
GIRL: Mamá, Texas..
GIRL: Adios, Texas.
NARRATOR: At the time, I was oblivious to my mother's anguish. She loved and lived to talk. Now, as if by a witch's spell, words were no longer her bridge but her barrier. In a very real sense she feared she had left herself behind.
NARRATOR: We moved into a place managed by my mother's aunt. My mother worked two jobs in two local stores paying a total of 450 dollars a week.
NARRATOR: ..just ever so barely enough.
NARRATOR: That quickly it was clear she could no longer work two jobs and leave me to my own at night. The following morning she did something about it. A boy I never saw again had changed our lives.
BRIDE: ( to mom ) Este es Stone Canyon.
BERNICE: Gee whiz in heaven.How are you? Don't worry..I'm not mad.I was looking for decoration to put on the glass so people would stop walking into it and instead of taking what they had in stock, which was awful, I special ordered. I'll design something myself which I should have done in the fi.
DEBORAH: ( a bit hyper ) Don't worry..I'm not mad.I was looking for decoration to put on the glass so people would stop walking into it and instead of taking what they had in stock, which was awful, I special ordered. I'll design something myself which I should have done in the fi.
BERNICE: Now you got it, Mom.
DEBORAH: Here, take these. Was that strange to give you money..I just felt badly that..
MONICA: It's okay.
MONICA: She is my niece. She and her daughter live in the apartment I manage. Yolanda, who worked for you, lived there before she went back home. That's how I heard about the job.
DEBORAH: So who am I interviewing?
MONICA: ( forcefully ) You're gorgeous. ( translating sotto )
DEBORAH: ( forcefully ) You're gorgeous. ( translating sotto )
MONICA: ( translating sotto )
EVELYN: She doesn't mean it as a compliment. It's more of an This is my daughter Bernice and this is my mother, Evelyn Norwich..
DEBORAH: This is my daughter Bernice and this is my mother, Evelyn Norwich..
BERNICE: ( rising ) Excuse me.Glad you're okay. ( then to other Latina ) Good luck.
DEBORAH: No, stay..this involves you.
BERNICE: I wouldn't want some kid around for my interview. You understand, Mom.
EVELYN: ( to Bernice ) Strength of character..empathy..big heart..taste for futility - God I love you.
DEBORAH: ( then to Bernice ) Stop. It's just a conversation - not an interview. Please sit. ( to visitors ) Don't you want to get out of the
MOTHER!: ( then to Bernice ) Stop. It's just a conversation - not an interview. Please sit. ( to visitors ) Don't you want to get out of the
MONICA: Do you work?
DEBORAH: I helped run a commercial design company until ten months ago when
MONICA: ( a solid beat of I'm sorry what I say about you.don't hold it against her.
BERNICE: I don't speak any Spanish. But I'm not an idiot - I talk for an hour and you say two words. What did you
DEBORAH: I don't speak any Spanish. But I'm not an idiot - I talk for an hour and you say two words. What did you
NARRATOR: ( as Deborah continues I will major in linguistics and make sociology my sub- concentration. Because it has been my experience that the barriers of
OUR GAL: Flor Moreno.
DEBORAH: She pronounces it flat like the "floor" we walk on.throughout the following each of the women sticks to their pronunciation as indicated by the extra "r's.
FLOR: ( correcting ) ( correcting ) ( correcting ) ( trying ) Flor..what I walk on?
DEBORAH: ( correcting ) ( correcting ) ( trying ) Flor..what I walk on?
FLOR: ( correcting ) ( correcting ) ( trying ) Flor..what I walk on?
DEBORAH: ( correcting ) ( trying ) Flor..what I walk on?
FLOR: ( correcting ) ( trying ) Flor..what I walk on?
DEBORAH: ( trying ) Flor..what I walk on?
FLOR: ( trying ) Flor..what I walk on?
DEBORAH: Flor..what I walk on?
FLOR: It means flower, right?
BERNICE: It means flower, right?
MONICA: Yes. Flower. Florrrrr.
EVELYN: Deborah is beginning to feel criticized.she takes a beat..eyes everyone with some hostility.
FLOR: Deborah is beginning to feel criticized.she takes a beat..eyes everyone with some hostility.
DEBORAH: ( directly to Flor ) Is there some school of the ear I'm flunking out of right now?
MONICA: ( translating ) She says..If you curl your tongue and let it be loose you will have it..that it's hard for Americans.. She says it's great that you try so hard. Many people wouldn't bother.
DEBORAH: ( an emotional She gets me..
FLOR: ( a Spanish word )
DEBORAH: Whew, dense but stubborn, right? What you just did with me is just what kids need..patience and encouragement. Alright, money.
BERNICE: Goodbye, really.. Look forward to seeing you.
DEBORAH: ( absently to Bernie ) Love you. ( then with not a . the job is six days a week, seven to seven..the kids and all housekeeping, how much a week would you like?
FLOR: ( extremely heavy accent ) One thousand dollars.
MONICA: ( firmly ) Six hundred dollars.
DEBORAH: Welcome to the family..
JOHN: I brought some dessert.
CATERER: She came down to check on the party and realized the gardeners hadn't finished rolling the sod.
DEBORAH: ( to catering women ) We can do it. Come on.
JOHN: I was getting a kick looking at you look at it.
DEBORAH: I better get dressed again in case anybody's just a half hour late.
JOHN: Huh? Oh sure..I, uh..Well, no, I don't have anything particular to Oh, John why don't you just take out a knife and kill me all
DEBORAH: Oh, John why don't you just take out a knife and kill me all
JOHN: How'd you get there..Hey, wait a minute..Deb..stop..come on. I'd like to figure this one out. What would have been the great thing for me to say after you said the sod sentence?..Really.
DEBORAH: That's actually a good question.
JOHN: There you go. I surprise sometimes.
DEBORAH: I would have liked, if after I compared the sod to life, if you had said, "Exactly!"
JOHN: Yeah. But to say that and mean it I'd have to think the same way you It's worth a try.I had something else to tell you.it'll come to
DEBORAH: ( some sense of mischief ) It's worth a try.I had something else to tell you.it'll come to
CRISTINA: Could we have a table for two,
HOSTESS: Smoking or non-smoking?
FLOR: The hostess laughs..They are seated at the two ends of a banquette and each automatically picks up her place setting and "scootches" closely together. Cristina picks up a menu and points to the prices.
CRISTINA: Wow, expensive..
HOSTESS: Uh-huh..And those men would like to buy you a drink. This is very embarrassing but "what's wrong with you? I'm with my daughter for God's sake!"
CRISTINA: ( to men ) This is very embarrassing but "what's wrong with you? I'm with my daughter for God's sake!"
DEBORAH: Hi, Flor..See you up there.
JOHN: Okay.think SERIOUSLY about getting up. You don't have to get up yet but are you thinking seriously about it?
GEORGIE: 39 INT. CLASKY HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY. 39
JOHN: 39 INT. CLASKY HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY. 39
GEORGIE: Yes..actual up..
JOHN: Yes..actual up..
GEORGIE: Morning, Dad.
JOHN: Yeah, good morning.
GEORGIE: You as mad at me as Mom 'cause of what happened?
JOHN: No, Georgie, I'm not.
GEORGIE: Are you mad at me?
JOHN: Uh.okay, no..
BERNICE: Morning, good to see you.
FLOR: Morning. Good too.
BERNICE: Try some.
DEBORAH: Tough day.
BERNICE: I had an idea for a breakthrough in French toast so I made breakfast. I don't want to be teased about it.. No sarcasm. No tough love. Just try it and if by any chance you have a positive reaction.
DEBORAH: Right..mean ol' me. I can't play right now. I have to do something about your brother.
BERNICE: I had an idea for a recipe. When has that happened? I got up early to do this. At least taste it, for God's sakes!
DEBORAH: Oh, it's good.oh God, it's rich Oh God, it's good.
DEBORAH: ( sudden alarm ) By the way, you could do without
FLOR: Deborah directs her to the most complicated cappuccino machine Italian overpriced artists ever devised.
JOHN: This isn't an argument, honey.
DEBORAH: Yes. Yes it is. So stop being so maniacally calm.
JOHN: ( emphatically ) No..it's not. Because I understand your side.
DEBORAH: I can't be wrong about that too. This is a fight. We're having a fight. Yo, I feel anger.
DEBORAH: Okay..Let's get someplace here.
DEBORAH: You, mister, are crazy making..I can't take this calm thing you've
DEBORAH: started doing. It's like this is your way of letting me know there's something deeply wrong with me because I'm not calm.
JOHN: ( calmly ) Let's not go all over the place..Can't we.
DEBORAH: ( shouted burst ) If you're going to talk to me please have the decency to raise your voice.
JOHN: ( a beat then sudden Let's make a break for it.
DEBORAH: What are you talking about?
JOHN: Just for a second.
DEBORAH: You're ridiculing me because I care about this.
JOHN: ( firmly ) No. I'm not. I mean this..let's get away from those two in case they're as miserable as they look..
JOHN: ( urging..like a Southern Come on, baby.
DEBORAH: Let me ask you a question..let me change the subject..Forget for a moment that you won't support me with Georgie..
JOHN: ( reasonably ) Well, I don't think.
DEBORAH: Here's the question. It's been on my mind more and more. Do you do that calm thing for the purpose of infuriating me?
JOHN: ( genuinely puzzled ) What? Why would . ( on her exasperated look ) Why would anyone do something to someone they love for the purpose of messing them up?
DEBORAH: ( unconvinced/distant )
JOHN: Deb, since high school we've been able to read each other.take advantage of it..The answer to the question is,"absolutely not." Now take a look and tell me if you believe me.
DEBORAH: I don't.. believe you. I think you just want me to feel badly about myself..Sorry, honey.
JOHN: ( to himself ) Great God in heaven save me.
FLOR: He turns with a start to see Flor smiling at him. Gorgeous squared. His first word is inadvertent.
JOHN: Whoa.whoa.I didn't know Deborah had found someone. You work here? You're going to help with the house and kids?
FLOR: Solo español.
JOHN: You work here and you don't speak any English at all?
DEBORAH: All she has to do is dial 9-1-1 and press two for Spanish. This is Flor.
JOHN: ( pronouncing it perfectly ) Hi, Flor.
DEBORAH: No. I'm doing it..show Flor the
DEBORAH: Fuckin' hombres, huh?
GEORGIE: I just didn't want to sing last Yeah. Well you said you would..You said you wanted to. I asked you five times. Then when I have the whole party paying attention you
DEBORAH'S VOICE: ( hurt ) Yeah. Well you said you would..You said you wanted to. I asked you five times. Then when I have the whole party paying attention you
DEBORAH: It doesn't do any good now,
JOHN: ( sharply to Alex ) Not the best place to stand, fella.
PETER: ( sharply to Alex ) Not the best place to stand, fella.
JOHN: ( to Alex ) No. It's me. You're the new helper, huh..
ALEX: I didn't mean to.
JOHN: No..no..it's okay. It's me being
PEG: You are going to be so happy..
MAITRE D': I have something very important to tell you. Perfect cod this is John John, perfect cod..Best one I've seen all season and he was swimming twenty minutes ago.
PEG: Perfect cod this is John John, perfect cod..Best one I've seen all season and he was swimming twenty minutes ago.
JOHN: ( to Alex ) You want to learn something? You want to pack it away?
KID: ( smiling ) Yes, I understand.
MAITRE D': Please. Now?
JOHN: Oh, sorry..I forgot.
PETER: What, buddy, what?
JOHN: Victor spotted a food critic..
PETER: The New York Times..I'll bet they sent her out just for us. Here's what she ordered.
VICTOR: The New York Times..I'll bet they sent her out just for us. Here's what she ordered.
PETER: Look, if you're nervous take a I don't need a walk.
JOHN: I don't need a walk.
GWEN: I'll walk with you..I know a breathing thing.
JOHN: What do you think I'm worried about. how I'll cook? That's not the problem.. The lady wants fish. Get the fish.
PETER: ( w/barely understated I agree with everything you've said. I admire you for your feelings. I hope to adopt them as my own..
GWEN: ( w/barely understated I agree with everything you've said. I admire you for your feelings. I hope to adopt them as my own..
JOHN: I don't know what to root for.. the thought of one star makes me nauseous..but with four there's no place to go but, "Oh my God, they took away a star." Three..three and a half. That's what you want..No. Wrong! Three and a half you feel disappointed that you just missed out on four. You know what you want? Three and a That would be perfect!! It would mean you're good..but you're not good enough to feel disappointed that you just missed out on excellent..but nothing truly bad happened, you still got your three and a quarter stars. Which encourages you to try and improve..And you still get enough respect so that you can get good people to work with you..Business is good but not crazy. You're right there underneath the radar where you get to mind your own business. That's a solid life.
EVELYN: Well, I'm in the vitamin section and this little hip hop girl..what's her name..Grammys - adorable big voice..subtle phrasing.oh, she's famous..the kids know her.oh - little blue shoes..darn me.
BERNICE: Awwww. How sweet..
EVELYN: Just such a lovely thing to come from the blue.. Oh, Mother.It's not even noon.
DEBORAH: Oh, Mother.It's not even noon.
EVELYN: ( defensively ) It's almost two o'clock.
DEBORAH: God, where is this day going.Flor could you come with me?
BERNICE: Grandma, tell Mom what happened.
EVELYN: ( very deliberately )
JOHN: This is going to work.
BERNICE: I don't know anything.
JOHN: Free your mind.the president whose policies many consider responsible for the Great I don't know.
BERNICE: I don't know.
JOHN: Name a vacuum cleaner..
BERNICE: Okay. Yes..thanks.
JOHN: And this vacuum whooshed all this money out of everyone's pockets.
BERNICE: Got it. I no longer know nothing.
JOHN: And Hoover was followed in office I'm just drawing blanks. I'm embarrassed. It's my own fault I spent my time on math, which I'm lucky if I don't flunk anyway and..
BERNICE: I'm just drawing blanks. I'm embarrassed. It's my own fault I spent my time on math, which I'm lucky if I don't flunk anyway and..
JOHN: The guy we are looking for is not a What's ruse mean?
BERNICE: What's ruse mean?
JOHN: Phony. So this president was not a ruse..He was the real thing.
JOHN: ( she looks at him blankly ) ( enjoying her father's Rusevelt..If I'd ever heard of the word before - that would lock it in..It's so stupid it might work
BERNICE: ( enjoying her father's Rusevelt..If I'd ever heard of the word before - that would lock it in..It's so stupid it might work
DEBORAH: Surprise new clothes..
BERNICE: What'd I do right?
DEBORAH: Warehouse sale..
BERNICE: Thanks, mom..I'm glad you didn't get here a little earlier or else I wouldn't be able to tell you that your gift is a ruse. Please, excuse
DEBORAH: She's right between the two sizes..I thought about it..what am I supposed to do encourage her.what is it? - DENIAL? Or motivate her to get herself in
FLOR: Me puedo ir?..go..can go?
DEBORAH: ( a bit nonplussed ) Sure. Go.
JOHN: I'll drive you to the bus stop.
JOHN: Sorry. I'm cracking.
NARRATOR: My mother did not understand her male boss. His heart was good and he was rare in not flirting with her. But they were starkly different. Privacy and dignity were the same word to my mother. Naturally, when she found herself sitting next to a man who cried over his child's hurt she had no idea how to process the event.
FLOR: She opens the door and starts to get out though the car is still rolling a bit.
JOHN: What are you doing? Let me take you all the way.
FLOR: No es nada.
NARRATOR: The job was taxing her. She had no template for confusion let alone
NARRATOR: It was so unusual for my mother to ask my help that I realized immediately she was losing her battle to be uninvolved with the
CRISTINA: Try it on.
FLOR: ( thickly accented ) Just try it on.
CRISTINA: ( small accent ) Just try it on.
FLOR: ( improvement each time ) Just try it on.just try it on..
NARRATOR: Our culture embraces fullness in a woman. You, the women of the admissions committee, as intelligent as you are, have no idea how casual and complete such acceptance is back home, in the land of the size 16 bikini.
NARRATOR: This is one of the cultural differences between us which I wish to explore academically at Princeton. American women, I believe, actually feel the same as Hispanic women about weight.
NARRATOR: ..a desire for the comfort of
NARRATOR: And, when that desire is suppressed for style and deprivation allowed to rule.
DEBORAH: ON RUNNERS. They turn and look confused at Deborah who is so far behind them she has no need to pass..They turn away. Deborah struggles to turn it on and does so.huffing to just behind them where she utters one more strained:
NARRATOR: .dieting, exercising American women become afraid of everything associated with being curvaceous, such as wantonness, lustfulness, sex, food, motherhood..all that is good in life.
BERNICE: Hey..buenas dias, Flor.. Yes..Well, taste she has..
FLOR: ( damn good English ) Just try it on.
BERNICE: Hey!!!! When did you learn to.
FLOR: ( cutting her off ) Just try it on..
BERNICE: Too tight..it doesn't fit.
FLOR: Just try it on..Hey?!
BERNICE: Okay. I'll show you..
FLOR: ( to dog ) Lo siento. No.
BERNICE: Flor turns..Bernie moves to embrace her.
EVELYN: Every time he has a nightmare, I teach him one of my old songs. That way the nightmares have a purpose.
GEORGIE: But I don't have to sing it for Right. You're clear on that..
JOHN: Right. You're clear on that..
GEORGIE: How many did you sell of this song?
EVELYN: ( embarrassed in front of He likes to know that stuff.
JOHN: ( to Georgie ) She was huge.
EVELYN: Seventy-six thousand..which is great for a jazz album.
EVELYN: You okay?
JOHN: ( strangely ) I am okay. ( to Flor ) Deborah around?
FLOR: She run.
67A: 67A INT. CLASKY HOUSE - UPSTAIRS - BERNIE'S ROOM - DAY
JOHN: Hey, honey.
BERNICE: What's wrong?
JOHN: No..nothing.just that..
GEORGIE: A kid offered me a trade..Let me show you.
JOHN: He starts to follow him to his room.
BERNICE: Dad!!! He can wait.
JOHN: No..It's okay..
BERNICE: Let him wait..Yours is obviously You don't even know how important the trade is..
GEORGIE: You don't even know how important the trade is..
JOHN: Let me just do Georgie.. Here.
GEORGIE: He says he'll give me any three silvers for him.
JOHN: I don't know.This is the one you started with..You really want to give up your first card?
GEORGIE: I know..that's why I needed you.
JOHN: ..this is your favorite..
GEORGIE: I think he'd go higher.
JOHN: But it's not numbers..it's...
JOHN: For God's sake..why did you.
BERNICE: WHY?!!? CRAZY FATHER, WHY?!? Why aren't YOU screaming?..
JOHN: I'm getting there..just the stunned thing has to get dealt with.
BERNICE: ( reading from newspaper ) John Clasky, who at 25 made his mark on the New York restaurant scene when JAMMED lived up to and survived its silly name, has re- emerged as a young and confident veteran taking chances with his combinations in so subtle a If he gave me six.
GEORGIE: If he gave me six.
JOHN: ( catching her excitement ) Wait a minute, your sister's
BERNICE: ".beginning with the succession of appetizers, each one with its own stunning and fully realized agenda, is constantly yet casually Ah, Dad.this is so great. Now here's the thing.
JOHN: ( genuinely enthusiastic ) Look how great you read it.
BERNICE: ( massive irony ) Perfect, Dad.
EVELYN: John..John.Oh, my God you even look different to me..
JOHN: What are you talking about?
BERNICE: I wonder what mom will do?
JOHN: What is this?
DEBORAH: I don't know.
FLOR: ( heavily accented ) New York Times..
CRISTINA: Wow."John Clasky es el mejor chef en Los Estados Unidos..
FLOR: ( easily ) Ah, bravo.
DEBORAH: Oh, damn it - what am I going to do? Everything seems so surely
DEBORAH'S VOICE: Okay here.okay there.good, good, good.
JOHN: Hey, Deb?
DEBORAH: ( from the vortex of
JOHN: You know, I guess I got used to you getting a little blue after intercourse.But DURING..??
DEBORAH: Something else I do wrong.
JOHN: You've gotta stop walking away.
DEBORAH: ( turning ) If I stay, I will say awful things to you that I might not even mean..You pick.
JOHN: See ya.
FLOR: ( to woman ) Yo leÌ la crÌtica buena.
JOHN: Not so far.How you doing?
FLOR: I do fine.
VICTOR: Should I stop answering? We're booked for two months solid.
JOHN: No, no, no, no, no..I want to keep some walk-in business..I want this to stay neighborhood.
VICTOR: Impossible. There would be riots..You should hear the desperation in their voices..Best day of my life.
JOHN: We'll serve a full menu at the bar Then where do I put the people waiting for a table? It won't work.
VICTOR: Then where do I put the people waiting for a table? It won't work.
JOHN: Do this for me.
VICTOR: There's no way.
JOHN: Do this for me or I'll set my hair on fire and start punching myself in the face.
VICTOR: Yeah..you're right.that was an unusual way for me to make myself understood..But you'll do the bar Yes, of course, John..
JOHN: Yeah..you're right.that was an unusual way for me to make myself understood..But you'll do the bar Yes, of course, John..
VICTOR: Yes, of course, John..
PETER: I need to talk to you.
JOHN: Ah, man..Okay.
JOHN: What's up? What's wrong?
PETER: I've gotten a fantastic offer for my own place..Everybody wants to back me since the paper came out.
JOHN: What's your reaction?
PETER: Honestly? Because I've had this very unusual reaction.
JOHN: I've had a hard on almost all day and it won't go away. Like I'm riding on the back seat of a bus with bad shocks and every other passenger is a gorgeous woman with a yellow sports top whose leaning over. It's like every dream I ever had and some even I didn't have the balls to dream..
PETER: I've had a hard on almost all day and it won't go away. Like I'm riding on the back seat of a bus with bad shocks and every other passenger is a gorgeous woman with a yellow sports top whose leaning over. It's like every dream I ever had and some even I didn't have the balls to dream..
JOHN: So you're considering taking it?. Okay, here's the thing. I can't lose you and still keep the hours I'm keeping. I can't do my life unless I can hold onto you. I think I just gave you an incredible bargaining position.
DEBORAH: So you gave away twenty percent of the restaurant without talking to me about it.
JOHN: Yeah. If I didn't do it - I'd have been coming home just to sleep.
DEBORAH: ( trying to make livid more Remember the other day when you asked me the perfect response to something I said?.I'm asking you now..what would you like my response to be to your giving away twenty percent of the business without asking me?
JOHN: ( with great enthusiasm ) "You're ma man!"
DEBORAH: Okay! So that would be???
JOHN: My dream response from you, yes.
DEBORAH: ( measured ) I'm not quite there..Actually, I just had this flash that the reason women in the old days used to faint was to avoid doing acts of violence against men. ( a beat then ) And I was all worried about figuring out the timing just to talk to you about renting a place for the summer.
JOHN: Well, I think you got your timing.
DEBORAH: Be right out.
REALTOR: I'm Mike..there's one great rental that just came on..so we're starting at the top..
DEBORAH: I'll never be one of those girls whose hair blows perfectly in a Move your seat forward.. A little more..just..good.
REALTOR: Move your seat forward.. A little more..just..good.
DEBORAH: Oh, you must be trouble.
FLOR: ( taking it as a
DEBORAH: ( taking it as a
EVELYN: Did you ask her if she could live Come on.there's no buses from her to here. There's no question. Double come on.
DEBORAH: Come on.there's no buses from her to here. There's no question. Double come on.
DEBORAH: You must learn English. Why won't she learn English? I'm going to have to learn, "you must learn English," in Spanish.
EVELYN: I think Flor is perfect and we should do all we can to keep her from changing.
DEBORAH: Gee, you took the words right out of my mouthay.
DEBORAH: Oh, good. Do you speak English?
HISPANIC MAN: Yes, I do.
DEBORAH: Would you translate for me?
HISPANIC MAN: He speaks to her in Spanish..a lavish, poetic compliment. Flor, in full control, says, in Spanish.."Would you please just find out what she wants." Evelyn joins them.
DEBORAH: Wait till I say something before you start in.. I rented a house here for the summer and now she must sleep at the house because of the bus
FLOR: No.. Sorry.
DEBORAH: What? Why?
HISPANIC MAN: She can't because of her daughter.
DEBORAH: You have a daughter? You have a whole daughter you haven't mentioned..How old?
FLOR: ( to Evelyn ) It's a little crazy that I don't know that.
DEBORAH: ( to Evelyn ) It's a little crazy that I don't know that.
HISPANIC MAN: She can't live here. Her daughter.
DEBORAH: ( beat then big decision ) Her daughter can also live with us for the summer..
FLOR: ( big decision ) No, sorry.
DEBORAH: The man asks Flor who speaks in Spanish..
HISPANIC MAN: I don't know. She just doesn't want Will you please just tell me what she said.
DEBORAH: Will you please just tell me what she said.
HISPANIC MAN: She said, "I just don't want to."
EVELYN: If she didn't tell us about her child she has to have a deep sense of privacy. We can figure out how she can still live at home. Hell, I don't mind driving her at night.
DEBORAH: Let's spare the world you on the Well, what do we do?
FLOR: ( enormous decision ) Yo vivo aquÌ.
HISPANIC MAN: She'll live here.
BALCONY GIRLS: ( accented )
NARRATOR: ( over this incidental The first time one sees natural beauty which is owned by others confounds the senses.. I had never imagined the word "money" could be associated with anything but the anxiety of not having enough. I didn't know God had a toy store for the rich.
GEORGIE: Who wants to go swimming?..Yes, who wants to go swimming?
EVELYN: Not now..But I promise I'll go in the summer after next.
JOHN: You want to go swimming?
GEORGIE: Oh yeah, you're off.
JOHN: What do you think, wet suits?
GEORGIE: Wet suits are for wimps..
JOHN: Yeah, you're right..let me get
GEORGIE: ( to Dad ) You're good.
DEBORAH: ( to Flor ) Look at this child..Flor, you could make a fortune at surrogate
FLOR: Cristina is as nonplussed by the remark as her mother.
JOHN: Hi. I'm John..It's good to see you. Hi. This is my daughter, Bernice..I'm Deborah..And out there.are Georgie and.
DEBORAH: ( to Cristina ) Hi. This is my daughter, Bernice..I'm Deborah..And out there.are Georgie and.
EVELYN: I'm so glad to meet you. I'm a fan of your mother's.
CRISTINA: I'm Cristina.
BERNICE: ( kidding around but right No comparisons, please, no
CRISTINA: My mother says it's best if we get out of the way and put our things Have you ever been to the beach I've never been anyplace but Mexico and Texas...before today.
JOHN: Have you ever been to the beach I've never been anyplace but Mexico and Texas...before today.
CRISTINA: I've never been anyplace but Mexico and Texas...before today.
JOHN: Here's the most important place in the house..grab this stuff whenever you want.
CRISTINA: ( delighted ) Thank you..thank you so much.
DEBORAH: Very little accent?
FLOR: ( suspiciously ) ( to Flor ) Sin acento.
CRISTINA: ( to Flor ) Sin acento.
FLOR: Right. Settle in..
DEBORAH: Right. Settle in..
CRISTINA: Thank you. I am thrilled to be
DEBORAH: ( in a loud whisper ) Hey, Cristina.hey.hey..What are you doing up?
CRISTINA: Oh, hi..so beautiful..I was just I know..Would you believe I had to talk my husband into this? Would you believe I had to talk my husband into it?.do you hear me?
DEBORAH: I know..Would you believe I had to talk my husband into this? Would you believe I had to talk my husband into it?.do you hear me?
CRISTINA: Yes.I just .. I didn't know what to say?
DEBORAH: ( still calling down ) Do you want to come with me? I'm going to the flea market.
CRISTINA: I don't know what that.
DEBORAH: It's the Rose Bowl. miles, actual miles, of great things for sale for God's sake.We can have brunch in I don't want to wake my mother so I'll leave her a note.I'll
CRISTINA: I don't want to wake my mother so I'll leave her a note.I'll
DEBORAH: I'll leave her a note.I'll
FLOR: She goes to Cristina's bed.atop the bed is a note. She picks it up.
INSERT..THE NOTE: Dear Flor,
LOVE,: With great energy born of bottled fury, Flor begins to go through her daughter's things.finding her backpack and extracting a Spanish/English dictionary.
DEBORAH: With great energy born of bottled fury, Flor begins to go through her daughter's things.finding her backpack and extracting a Spanish/English dictionary.
CRISTINA: It was an adventure which I'll Your English is genius. Do you dream in Spanish or English?
DEBORAH: Your English is genius. Do you dream in Spanish or English?
CRISTINA: Just recently I've had a dream in What was it?
DEBORAH: What was it?
CRISTINA: I am so sorry. I uh..I'd ..I uh, can't tell ..This is so You could have just said you didn't I, uh, guess so..but I do.
DEBORAH: You could have just said you didn't I, uh, guess so..but I do.
CRISTINA: I, uh, guess so..but I do.
DEBORAH: Look who's sensational.
EVELYN: What's wrong?
BERNICE: Aw, shit.. Sorry about the word, Georgie.
GEORGIE: It's okay.
BERNICE: You want to know what happened?
GEORGIE: No thank you.
JOHN: Hey, Flor..
FLOR: Simpático, yes.
JOHN: Un momento, huh?
DEBORAH: What? Something bad happen?
CRISTINA: Not right now.
DEBORAH: You can't just take someone Nuh-uh, Mom..don't go there..or I'll go there and you know where "there" is.
EVELYN: You can't just take someone Nuh-uh, Mom..don't go there..or I'll go there and you know where "there" is.
DEBORAH: Nuh-uh, Mom..don't go there..or I'll go there and you know where "there" is.
PAD WRITING: You cannot take my child without my permission..And, if you had asked me I would not have given permission. Is this why you did not ask? Because you knew this. You have no rights over my private
PAD: If you have any disagreement with this, I no longer wish to work
DEBORAH: What's this?
FLOR: For you.
DEBORAH: Flor with enormous emphasis stabs her finger at her own Deborah exits to a bathroom and closes the door.leaving Flor in the hall with the letter..Cristina reveals herself and explains the situation to her mother. The last word we hear before scene's end is "mañana."
JOHN: She didn't even want us to know she had a daughter - then, on the first day, you take the kid without asking. I think that's.
DEBORAH: ( starting to lose it ) What!?! Insensitive? Elitist? Irresponsible? Perverse? Dizzy?
JOHN: ( slow and emphatic )
DEBORAH: When is anyone in this damn house or this damn life going to consider my feelings? I just tried to make a lovely kid feel welcome. There's no reason to rake it over.I let it go..and gave Flor the room to let it go. Which I'm sure she has! It's over!! So get on board.
FLOR: I slept.
DEBORAH: I am deeply and sincerely sorry to have upset you. Especially in light of the deep connection, as women, I believe us to have.
EVELYN: ( sotto to John ) And to think I was worried about Flor living here with her kid?
JOHN: So here's the idea..I want to make a serving platter for serving fish using sea glass like this..
GEORGIE: Do we have to do this?
BERNICE: ( to Georgie ) Oh, come on.
JOHN: Come on, Cristina - go get em.
CRISTINA'S VOICE: Excuse me.
JOHN: Hi..what's doing?
CRISTINA: ( feeling horrible ) No..you don't have to pay..I'm sorry. Don't worry, please.
JOHN: No. I'm kidding..Instead of a platter I'll just build a sea glass building and serve fish inside. Great, Cristina..Why don't you count it and..
CRISTINA: I have. Many times..I didn't sleep. I counted.
JOHN: So what's the damage.total?
CRISTINA: ( dead serious ) It depends on whether you consider these four a color other than green, brown or clear..
JOHN: Well, this one is borderline.
CRISTINA: I agree.
JOHN: Oh my God, you found a blue..Nobody finds a blue..You know how a blue happens? I mean, before the ocean blasts it for 30-40 years. Somebody had to throw away an old Milk of Magnesia bottle. You know what Milk of Magnesia is?
CRISTINA: He smiles broadly. The kid's a trip. He likes her.
JOHN: So how much for the whole deal?
CRISTINA: ( unable to look at him ) Eleven hundred and one dollar.
JOHN: Okay. We'll finish dealing with it when I get home from work.
FLOR: She turns.the wad of money in her hand..
CRISTINA: My mother wishes me to represent exactly what she says, nothing
JOHN: You mean your mother..
JOHN: What's wrong?
JOHN: I made this little deal..with all the kids to.
JOHN: Sea glass?
FLOR: ON JOHN.. As his eyes shift to Cristina fearing the word he will hear.
JOHN: Oh, no..engreÌdo's going to be
CRISTINA: ( briefly being herself ) It's hard to translate.
JOHN: I had no idea it would amount to that kind of money..I thought - sort of tops fifty dollars.
JOHN: Okay. Right.
JOHN: What about hypocritical?
FLOR: ( hard on the translation ) Oh, yes. So go lecture yourself..you won't need a translator for that one.I mean what am I lately. A recycling bin?..just anyone dump in your garbage and hope I make something useful out of it.
JOHN: Oh, yes. So go lecture yourself..you won't need a translator for that one.I mean what am I lately. A recycling bin?..just anyone dump in your garbage and hope I make something useful out of it.
FLOR: Sin diferencia. Yo interferÌ.
JOHN: Okay..I'm still not sure I did the right thing keeping it to myself. It felt disloyal to Deborah..but my daughter really needed someone to be kind to her right then..so..so.
JOHN: ( something strikes him, he I'll tell you, it's pretty wild to say something and have the other person just concede the point. I'm dazed here.
JOHN: No..no..come on, man..
JOHN: You can't quit even if you want to and you know why.
FLOR: Yes, you do..
JOHN: Yes, you do..
CRISTINA: Culpa, guilt, sÌ. We know. We are Culpa, si..Por Dios, Si.
FLOR: ( after her daughter's Culpa, si..Por Dios, Si.
CRISTINA: ( on her own ) We know.
FLOR: ( big nod ) We know.
JOHN: So, welcome back.
FLOR: Good night, Mr. Clasky..
CRISTINA: Good night As they exit..their backs to John, daughter following mother.Flor speaks to her No te puedo tener haciendo esto por mi. Ahora tengo que aprender I can't have you doing this for me. I must learn English now.
FLOR: ( an aside ) No te puedo tener haciendo esto por mi. Ahora tengo que aprender ( over her shoulder to John I can't have you doing this for me. I must learn English now.
FLOR: No, dije eso por ti - no por John.
JOHN: You have a wonderful mother.
FLOR: 120 INT. FLOR'S ROOM - NIGHT 120
CRISTINA: 120 INT. FLOR'S ROOM - NIGHT 120
NARRATOR: Learning English would cost five hundred and ninety nine dollars down and 15 monthly payments of one hundred and ten dollars.which represents 48 percent interest..Mexicans marketing Mexicans. But not a penny was
NARRATOR: My mother showed an extraordinary facility for learning the language.
NARRATOR: ..as well as a totally committed, obsessive work ethic, which blocked out all else..She was her daughter's mother.
JOHN: ( cheering ) Hey, boy, I can use some up
JOHN: You gotta do something about Chum..Your arm's going to go.
FLOR: No..You get more if you keep at it.
JOHN: You're doing fantastic.
FLOR: Now I am like a three year-old. Your wife go out.
JOHN: She say where?
FLOR: ( on his reaction ) Listen..I just forgot she was going out..don't be a smart ass. ( jolted by his own remark ) Uh-oh..well, you and I communicate mostly in apologies anyway..I'm sorry. I should be whipped. I should be stoned- it's been a while - I meant to say, I think, don't be smart, don't be kind, don't be sensitive, don't be beautiful. I meant to say, "hi, Flor, good night Flor..that show you're watching is going to be a hit."
JOHN: Listen..I just forgot she was going out..don't be a smart ass. Uh-oh..well, you and I communicate mostly in apologies anyway..I'm sorry. I should be whipped. I should be stoned- it's been a while - I meant to say, I think, don't be smart, don't be kind, don't be sensitive, don't be beautiful. I meant to say, "hi, Flor, good night Flor..that show you're watching is going to be a hit."
BERNICE: How'd you get your mother to let you go with my mother?
CRISTINA: Well, your mother just said she could use my help on a few errands while you're in class.
BERNICE: No. Just that I hate summer school.
CRISTINA: Why do you go then?
BERNICE: ( looks at her ) I'm not sure I can explain to you the concept of not doing well in a class..in this case math.and the system kind of insists on the illusion that you've learned math so they make you go to summer school..It helps them avoid facing that they have failed in their What do you mean they failed?
CRISTINA: What do you mean they failed?
BERNICE: Oh. I see. Forgive me, I don't have a real sense of humor.
CRISTINA: Oh. I see. Forgive me, I don't have a real sense of humor.
BERNICE: ( looking skyward ) Thank you, God. ( on Cristina's reaction ) The joke is?
CRISTINA: The joke is?
BERNICE: That you're better at everything than I am.and I was thanking God for there being this one thing where I might have my nose in
DEBORAH: And that thing is???
BERNICE: Sexual experience..
DEBORAH: Look at you girls.
DEBORAH: Cristina's already read, on her own, everything on Bernice's summer reading list..And she's two grades behind..Imagine if she went to Bernice's school..And they'd kill to give her a scholarship.
EVELYN: Talk to Flor.
DEBORAH: ( sarcastic ) Yeah..she's so open to new things.
ARLENE: ( acting surprised ) Hi, Arlene.. ( to Cristina ) Come on.
DEBORAH: ( acting surprised ) Hi, Arlene.. ( to Cristina ) Come on.
ARLENE: ( Barbara Boxer couldn't do Hello..a pleasure to meet you, Ms. Folsom. I couldn't believe how beautiful the grounds were as we drove in. I just think the balance of the buildings to open ground is so wonderful and must have been very difficult to achieve.
CRISTINA: ( Barbara Boxer couldn't do Hello..a pleasure to meet you, Ms. Folsom. I couldn't believe how beautiful the grounds were as we drove in. I just think the balance of the buildings to open ground is so wonderful and must have been very difficult to achieve.
ARLENE: Would you like a little tour?
NARRATOR: The experience was literally mind boggling. My mind did boggle. My cranial cells stunned. Even if I had enough sense of wonder to imagine such a school existed; my sense of fairness made it unthinkable that any school could offer this much more than my own..
DEBORAH: Nuh-uh, Flor you are not pinning this one on me. I've got to finish packing up.
FLOR: ( no longer sure of herself I just don't..Out of space this school wants her to go for free?
DEBORAH: We ran into the school head. They want diversity.Cristina knocked her out.I had nothing to do with it. By the way, the scholarship is worth twenty thousand dollars. And early registration is tomorrow.
FLOR: It is too far from our home.
DEBORAH: You could move in with us in town.
FLOR: Never, thank you.
DEBORAH: Okay, then don't..By the way..the phrase is "NO, thank you."
CRISTINA: Please, dear God..Enter my mother's heart and make her understand what this school would mean.
FLOR: Alright. I look.
CRISTINA: 133 EXT. L.A. PUBLIC SCHOOL - FLOR AT CRISTINA'S SCHOOL - DAY 133
EVELYN: Hi, Flor, want some port?
FLOR: No, thank you, Evelyn.
EVELYN: ( going up stairs ) Thanks for never judging me..Love you. Love everybody. That's what's killing me.. Sleep well.
FLOR: May I talk with you?
JOHN: ( she nods ) Deborah will be home soon. I just talked to her.
FLOR: I need real talk..Is it okay?
JOHN: Outside? Private?
FLOR: Outside? Private?
JOHN: ( as they exit to beach You have me a little worried.
FLOR: You know about Cristina and your great school?
JOHN: Oh, it's happened. Is it driving you nuts?
FLOR: Yes, nuts. I have no idea what to do. Such an important thing.
JOHN: It's a good school?
FLOR: It's a good school?
JOHN: Tops. It's tops.
FLOR: So you like it?
JOHN: No. I hate the damn school. But that's because they keep sending my daughter home anxiety-ridden, mostly over geometry..I mean you "get" Bernice..In a decent world her school should let her know how great she is, right?
FLOR: Very right.
JOHN: So, don't ask me..I'm worried about my own kid there.
FLOR: You don't have to worry about Bernice. Nothing is going to change that heart.
JOHN: ( then ) It's great to hear someone else say that out loud..Hard to explain.
FLOR: I "get" it.
JOHN: ( a beat..then deeply, with Ah, man..
FLOR: ( caring ) It will be okay.
JOHN: No, I was thinking about you..
FLOR: ( instantly alarmed ) Your, "Ah, man" was for me? You think I am in trouble with It's just tough to be sane.
JOHN: It's just tough to be sane.
FLOR: ( she takes this in/nods ) ..I never know a man who can put himself in my place like you do. How do you become that man?
JOHN: I don't know.You introduce two Jews in the desert and wait five thousand years. Then, bingo, somebody else who can see trouble coming but can't do anything about I don't understand.
FLOR: I don't understand.
JOHN: That's okay.
FLOR: I want to.
JOHN: Nothing. I don't know what I'm talking about..
FLOR: I don't know. But it does not feel good. I think if she goes there it will be one of two things..either she will be odd.or she will make herself the same as them.
JOHN: ( in wonderment ) That is EXACTLY the way I felt about Bernice going there..Exactly.
FLOR: Yes, you gotta.
JOHN: This was a crummy summer.
FLOR: Not all crummy.
JOHN: Good night..Hey?
FLOR: Nothing. Just.. Nice meeting you.
JOHN: Nothing. Just.. Nice meeting you.
BERNICE: ( calling ) You just made it.I was getting I picked up your books yesterday.. ( by way of explanation to This is one of Bernie's old..ancient backpacks.
DEBORAH: I picked up your books yesterday.. This is one of Bernie's old..ancient backpacks.
CRISTINA: Oh, thank you..
DEBORAH: ( to Cristina ) I got you a little first-day-at-a- new-school present.
BERNICE: ( dry ) What did we get her? It's from ALL of us. Your mother ( to Cristina ) It's not from me.
DEBORAH: ( to Cristina ) It's from ALL of us. Your mother ( to Cristina ) It's not from me.
FLOR: ( to Cristina ) It's not from me.
DEBORAH: Have a great year, girls.. This is so great. It fills your heart, doesn't it?
NARRATOR: There is a terrible crisis which comes when your own personality is not equal to the challenge you face. When being who you are no longer works.
DEBORAH: Flor does not alter course though she does start to walk Deborah is close behind now.
LEFT!: Suddenly, Flor breaks into a run..She is lithe and quick.
NARRATOR: When people exist under one roof, a tiny society forms..the stuff of
JOHN: You feel okay?
EVELYN: No. I've given up drinking. I had to do it John..I need every brain cell to watch out for all of us..given the current climate. Anyway. John, I think you're great and I'm going to act accordingly.
JOHN: ( totally confused ) Good deal.
EVELYN: Let's hope.
NARRATOR: My great Aunt Monica had finally managed to get her mother to Los Angeles and my mother was making a
NARRATOR: I was with my friends who had helped me understand real optimism.
DEBORAH: ( into phone ) Flor? Deb..Look, sorry to call you so late, but they're still studying and I'm going out but I promised to get her back so if you want me to cut off the school work, fine.whatever you want me to do. Well, okay..you think about it.. ( she holds on to give Flor And hey, if you're tired, or want to play, let her sleep here and I'll get her back there tomorrow. You still want to think about it?
NARRATOR: Though it is possible to judge harshly my conduct toward my mother in my first year at school; almost all professional literature excuses my behavior as developmental, since I was entering an age where rebellion and narcissism were to be expected. And I was being mentored.
EVELYN: ( calling out )
DEBORAH: "Honey?" Can't now, Mom.I'm late..I was looking all over for you.keep an eye on the kids. You know my secret cell number.
EVELYN: Just give me a moment to talk What is it? Are you buzzed?
DEBORAH: What is it? Are you buzzed?
EVELYN: No. I gave up drinking weeks ago. Yes. Nobody noticed which shows I probably conducted myself pretty well as a drunk. But duty called and I'm sober so may I say just one One thing..go ahead.
DEBORAH: One thing..go ahead.
EVELYN: Thanks..Deborah, you're going to lose your husband and you'll never find someone as good. There will only be men who you know are cheap and shallow and have no real warmth in their souls. You may have gotten by on those surfaces once but now you've been spoiled by a good man and you can no longer glide on such thin ice. If you do not act quickly you will soon cement an awful fate for yourself. A life, with no hope of repair, which has already begun to turn desperate and dumb. That's it. Drive safely.
DEBORAH: You've done it again, Mom, made me hate myself..One of the things I can count on..
EVELYN: Honey, lately your low self-esteem is just good common sense.
JOHN: ( concerned ) What the hell's wrong?
EVELYN: Nothing. In all futility, can I urge you not to go up there.
JOHN: Deb..Deb?..where are you?
DEBORAH: Here I am.
JOHN: Baby, what?
DEBORAH: "Baby?" Stay there, John.Sit down..I suddenly get what I have to do.I just have to get the guts.
JOHN: Is it absolutely necessary to make it this.this scary..can you just say it?
DEBORAH: Not so easy.
JOHN: ( tender/ready for the big Yeah..come on..it's me. We can Do I ever hope so.I've been seeing another man for the last eleven weeks and it was nothing and I ended it tonight..At first it was just keeping an eye on the real estate market..Then it was.what? Me being insecure and looking for some ridiculous vali.
DEBORAH: Do I ever hope so.I've been seeing another man for the last eleven weeks and it was nothing and I ended it tonight..At first it was just keeping an eye on the real estate market..Then it was.what? Me being insecure and looking for some ridiculous vali.
JOHN: Go hold on.hold on.I'm missing what you're saying..You can't just keep talking and expect me to follow it when you start the way you did...
DEBORAH: Just what did you hear?
JOHN: Well there was the crack in the planet. That was noisy.
DEBORAH: ( slowly ) I met him about.
JOHN: She takes that as a cue to start..
DEBORAH: I met him..
JOHN: If you talk that fast.I'll never hear you..there's a lot going through my mind..Have you said yet whether you slept with him?
DEBORAH: So far I've just been talking about a flirtation because the really important thing for you to know.
JOHN: Have you said yet whether you've had sex with someone else? Because I really am missing most of your words. So help me out here..
DEBORAH: I've been trying to explain that for the first ten weeks there was almost nothing to .
JOHN: ( sincerely checking but You still haven't said, right?
DEBORAH: Is this your way of.
JOHN: This is my way of.this is my way of asking you whether.. Oh man, once I ask it.give me a I'm just trying to figure out whether there's any way to avoid knowing..no, damn There's not. Okay, you're on..real short answer, huh? Have you had sex with I know you're very angry?
DEBORAH: I know you're very angry?
JOHN: ( considering/then Ahhhh.I'm getting there, yes.
DEBORAH: ( softly ) ( on his look ) I think if you let me tell you the full everything of this we'd be in a position to deal with it better..because eleven weeks ago
JOHN: You don't believe that I miss your words..I get three or four tops.and then just see your mouth moving with nothing coming out and then I spin out and there's this noise.But there's no way to miss a "yes" or "no."
DEBORAH: ( blurts ) ( core simple/eight years ( this gets her ) I made up my mind that I would answer every question you had..I'll answer anything and everything and ( perplexed ) What other questions could there Are you really that much nicer than Well, you don't set the bar real
JOHN: ( core simple/eight years ( this gets her ) I made up my mind that I would answer every question you had..I'll answer anything and everything and ( perplexed ) What other questions could there Are you really that much nicer than Well, you don't set the bar real
DEBORAH: ( this gets her ) I made up my mind that I would answer every question you had..I'll answer anything and everything and ( perplexed ) What other questions could there Are you really that much nicer than Well, you don't set the bar real
JOHN: ( perplexed ) What other questions could there Are you really that much nicer than Well, you don't set the bar real
DEBORAH: Are you really that much nicer than Well, you don't set the bar real
JOHN: Well, you don't set the bar real
DEBORAH: No. Please, please, please..I think if you listen to exactly what happened and then do whatever you need to.we'll..just let me tell you everything..
EVELYN: What are you doing here?
FLOR: I want Cristina. I want to talk to Mrs. Clasky. I want to quit.
EVELYN: I don't think you can do any of it right this minute..
FLOR: Oh, yes..Where's Cristina?
DEBORAH: .then, when I was driving back tonight after I ended the whole yuck thing..I was feeling human. I'm done with what's his name..a relief. ..and now it can be like it never happened and then I thought that the only hope was that I own that it did happen and that I take my medicine here..because if I'm walking around with what I did and you don't know what I did..there is a real limit to how close we can be..you're with me and I'm this person who has this bad secret and we aren't really on the same page ever again..so the reason I took this chance in telling is because I want us to be good..I want us to be close. I want to feel like you're not nuts to be in love with me..So what I think is we should talk till we pass out .. Talk till we're so sick of each other that there's nothing left to do but take the first step out of hell..So please let's not leave this room until you've heard and said everything..please say, okay..
JOHN: I've got to get out of here..because you keep talking. Stay put!
DEBORAH: I've got to get out of here..because you keep talking. Stay put!
JOHN: I've got to get out of here..because you keep talking. Stay put!
DEBORAH: You've got to say something.
JOHN: You are a terrible wife.
EVELYN: I don't think you want to wake her when you're this upset and the other kids are right there and.
JOHN: Where you going?
FLOR: I'm leaving..I have finally..
JOHN: Me too..I'll drive you.
FLOR: Yes..come on.it's past midnight If you truly don't know why I say "no" let me at last say the reason. At least that will be a relief. Have you no idea that I..
JOHN: Yes..come on.it's past midnight If you truly don't know why I say "no" let me at last say the reason. At least that will be a relief. Have you no idea that I..
FLOR: If you truly don't know why I say "no" let me at last say the reason. At least that will be a relief. Have you no idea that I..
JOHN: Look I have to get out of here right now..
FLOR: John exits to driveway.Flor makes one last toss..these tosses have not made a dent in her anger and frustration.
JOHN: ( as decisive as we've seen I'm taking you.
FLOR: ( with anger ) Because if I don't I'll worry about you and I can't handle that right now, okay?
JOHN: Because if I don't I'll worry about you and I can't handle that right now, okay?
FLOR: ( stunned and worried ) I never made that sound over a man
FLOR: ( a quick and mighty vent )
JOHN: Yes! Exactly! Well put! Teach me that word sometime. I can really use it.
FLOR: I quit this job!
JOHN: I quit this job!!!!!
FLOR: That's the bus stop.
JOHN: I'll take you home.
FLOR: No. Drop me at a bus.
JOHN: Oh, shut up and stop telling me what to do.
FLOR: Okay.then let's do something besides driving me home where my daughter isn't.
JOHN: Okay..we'll do something.
FLOR: And I'm supposed to figure out what because I'm a housekeeper and you don't have to think.
JOHN: Oh, don't do the class thing, man..You don't know where I come Alright, I know. But I can't be responsible no more for making sure nothing happens. That's another terrible job I quit.
FLOR: Alright, I know. But I can't be responsible no more for making sure nothing happens. That's another terrible job I quit.
JOHN: What are you talking about? I take responsibility for anything within a block. You have nothing to worry about. That's my job.
FLOR: Excellent. So you're going to figure out what we do, right?
JOHN: Yes. Okay. Big man figure out!
FLOR: Stop there.
FLOR: This is me when I'm not working.. You have never seen me!
JOHN: Well, you look familiar.
FLOR: ( parodying him ) "man," where we heading?
JOHN: I don't think I can handle public..
FLOR: Yes, no.lots of people right now I know.
JOHN: I know.
FLOR: You were going to figure this out!
JOHN: My place!
FLOR: I've never seen your place. Very
JOHN: I'm going to cook, Beautiful. I'm going to cook beautifully.
FLOR: He turns.
JOHN: He stands next to her and, for want of a better physical expression, pats her on her back..She eyes him, almost critical about the lame extent of his aggression..He can't quite look at her.He pats her again..
FLOR: Not so horrible...
JOHN: My hand is the only sane part of my body..every other part wants to jump off a cliff.
FLOR: ( digging this/almost If the other hand could cheer up, you could lift me up and carry me I don't know how to handle that one. I think I already broke my record for smooth.
JOHN: I don't know how to handle that one. I think I already broke my record for smooth.
FLOR: I don't understand.
JOHN: It's me. I'm not making sense. But I can get you fed.
JOHN: Nothing to be nervous about. You are not on a date. Hey, Flor?
JOHN: What are you doing?
FLOR: Just lighting candles and picking
JOHN: You want a drink?
FLOR: He gets out a bottle of vodka.
JOHN: Then excuse me, because if I had the equipment I'd inject the vodka.
FLOR: ( he stops ) I think it is so important that we are each clear-headed. It is very good that you did not ask, "why?"
JOHN: ( quietly ) Keep things real, right?
FLOR: ( impressed ) I wouldn't have put it so well.
FLOR: I will remember every Tell you the truth..I wanted a shot at cooking for you. I'm very glad you liked it.
JOHN: Tell you the truth..I wanted a shot at cooking for you. I'm very glad you liked it.
FLOR: It's something watching you.
JOHN: Well, if it's anything at your end imagine over here.scratch that..the last thing you want to hear is somebody going off on your Don't be crazy. Tell me every Okay, Flor, yes I will.They should name a gender after you..Looking at you doesn't do it..Staring is the only thing that makes sense..and trying not to blink so you don't miss anything. Look..forgive me..I'm...It's just that you are drop-dead, crazy- gorgeous..so much so that I am really considering looking at you again before we finish up here.
FLOR: Don't be crazy. Tell me every Okay, Flor, yes I will.They should name a gender after you..Looking at you doesn't do it..Staring is the only thing that makes sense..and trying not to blink so you don't miss anything. Look..forgive me..I'm...It's just that you are drop-dead, crazy- gorgeous..so much so that I am really considering looking at you again before we finish up here.
JOHN: Okay, Flor, yes I will.They should name a gender after you..Looking at you doesn't do it..Staring is the only thing that makes sense..and trying not to blink so you don't miss anything. Look..forgive me..I'm...It's just that you are drop-dead, crazy- gorgeous..so much so that I am really considering looking at you again before we finish up here.
FLOR: Soon, please.
JOHN: No contest.
FLOR: You sure you're not Mexican.
JOHN: ( smiling/he likes this ) What do you mean?
FLOR: I meant you talk like a Spanish You kiss like a Spanish fly.. Joking around. I don't know what I'm talking about.
JOHN: You kiss like a Spanish fly.. Joking around. I don't know what I'm talking about.
FLOR: Yes you do.
JOHN: I'm sorry. I don't know what I just took out of you but tell me how to get it back in there..I'm sorry. Flor..I'm sorry.
FLOR: Then respect this.
JOHN: Here's something I never asked anyone..Did nightingales undress on your tongue?
FLOR: Did they on yours?
JOHN: ( a long beat of Moving camera.the small house turned restaurant..little flickers of light.
NARRATOR: My mother never told me the details of her visit to the restaurant. But she often referred to it as the greatest conversation of her life.
FLOR: Oh, Johnny, why is everything so damn confusing?
JOHN: Flor's pleasure zone is rocked. She smiles at his first Spanish word. She is wrestling with large feelings of pleasure and large ominous thoughts.
FLOR: ( a beat ) Is your mind racing?
JOHN: I would say my mind has evaporated.but that there are remnants still standing waiting to fall. It feels pretty good.
FLOR: Like happy?
JOHN: Like happy.
FLOR: You think that will last?
JOHN: It's already gone.
FLOR: I understand what you mean.
JOHN: I don't understand what I mean.
FLOR: That it's getting late. That responsibilities have entered your brain. Don't hide that from me. And really, one large reason we are here is because you respect me as a mother and I respect you as a
JOHN: You're a great and wild mother.
FLOR: You are a beautiful father.
JOHN: You know, I always think about when you.Oh, there's no point. I talk too much. .because I don't know if we ever talk again.
FLOR: You know, I always think about when you.Oh, there's no point. I talk too much. .because I don't know if we ever talk again.
JOHN: Hey, hey..How do you get there? Yes you do. Be honest.
FLOR: Yes you do. Be honest.
JOHN: I'm being honest. Look at us - I think I call it She kisses him again.starts to cry..looks at him..emits a small cooing sound.
FLOR: What are we going to do go home, let our hearts go back in our bodies, see each other a few more times. Make a tragedy out of us..
JOHN: ( urgently ) No. I'm not. No. ( then ) Stay put for a second. Stay here. Once our feet touch that floor, I'm going to get too many brain cells back. So don't be in such a hurry. That floor, Flor, is going to eat us alive. ( she settles back/he is So you think it was a mistake up to ( she nods "yes" ) That's rough.
FLOR: The mistake..I love it.
DEBORAH: Tell me again why I can't call him on the cell.
EVELYN: Besides that he turned it off?
DEBORAH: Forty messages start to look needy.
EVELYN: Forty messages start to look needy.
DEBORAH: Mother, you're enjoying this.
EVELYN: No..Definitely not in the way you You are enjoying it?!?
DEBORAH: ( staggered ) You are enjoying it?!?
EVELYN: ( rising/honest ) I am enjoying actually being of use to my daughter. I am enjoying the fact that I really know how to advise you and the miracle that you are so deeply disoriented that you are gobbling up everything I say.
DEBORAH: ( vulnerable ) There's one thing I'd like to say to you about you and me.
EVELYN: You don't have to.
DEBORAH: I want to.
EVELYN: ( quite vulnerable and You were an alcoholic and wildly promiscuous woman during my formative years so that I am in this fix because of you. It is your fault. I just needed.. ( gestures heart to heart ) ..that moment for us.
DEBORAH: ( quite vulnerable and You were an alcoholic and wildly promiscuous woman during my formative years so that I am in this fix because of you. It is your fault. I just needed.. ( gestures heart to heart ) ..that moment for us.
EVELYN: You have a solid point, dear. But right now the lessons of my life are coming in handy for you.
DEBORAH: There's a car coming..
EVELYN: Do you know that right now you are your own worst enemy..that you can't trust one thought in your Then trust me and only allow yourself to say one thing to him..One thing."I'm so glad you're back."
DEBORAH: Then trust me and only allow yourself to say one thing to him..One thing."I'm so glad you're back."
EVELYN: Then trust me and only allow yourself to say one thing to him..One thing."I'm so glad you're back."
DEBORAH: ( babbling ) But I've got to know whether he touched her - where he touched her - how he touched her - if they broke a sweat - what they said - who made the first move - how they left it if anyone loves anyone or has an intention of making contact in the future - what she wore - how he felt afterwards - whether anyone mentioned me.. ( a wail ) ..whether they held hands when they
EVELYN: ( babbling ) But I've got to know whether he touched her - where he touched her - how he touched her - if they broke a sweat - what they said - who made the first move - how they left it if anyone loves anyone or has an intention of making contact in the future - what she wore - how he felt afterwards - whether anyone mentioned me.. ( a wail ) ..whether they held hands when they
DEBORAH: ( babbling ) But I've got to know whether he touched her - where he touched her - how he touched her - if they broke a sweat - what they said - who made the first move - how they left it if anyone loves anyone or has an intention of making contact in the future - what she wore - how he felt afterwards - whether anyone mentioned me.. ( a wail ) ..whether they held hands when they
EVELYN: Just those words I said. If you want a prayer of coming out of I know you're right..But..
DEBORAH: I know you're right..But..
EVELYN: But what?
DEBORAH: ( a small voice ) I forgot the sentence you said I should say.
EVELYN: "I'm so glad you're back."
DEBORAH: Okay..do I have to wait here?
EVELYN: No..he may not come up here..go to Why wouldn't he come up here?
DEBORAH: Why wouldn't he come up here?
EVELYN: Just go.
DEBORAH: Do I need a little makeup?
EVELYN: You need a hose but you don't have the time. It's fine that you look like that. It's genuine..You can use genuine.
DEBORAH: Thank you, mom.
DEBORAH: I'm so glad to see you ..that you're back.
JOHN: It's late, Deborah.
DEBORAH: Well, I just wanted to say.. what I I can't sleep upstairs with you.. Just can't for now.
JOHN: ( a beat then ) I can't sleep upstairs with you.. Just can't for now.
DEBORAH: I'm just so glad you're back.
JOHN: She nods..then goes back up the stairs..
DEBORAH: I am literally choking on unsaid words..seriously. If this were a restaurant ten people would have their knuckles in my sternum.
EVELYN: The fact that you didn't just make things worse should fill you with
JOHN: Deb, I'm done tonight. I don't think we can jam anything else in.
BERNICE'S VOICE: It's me, Dad.
JOHN: What's up, honey?
BERNICE: Just thought I'd check that you were back and okay and all.
JOHN: ( feigning innocence ) Mom was crying for six hours straight and Grandma was in with her all that time mostly saying, "he'll be back..he'll be back." I've got to get back to Georgie.
BERNICE: Mom was crying for six hours straight and Grandma was in with her all that time mostly saying, "he'll be back..he'll be back." I've got to get back to Georgie.
JOHN: I just hate that you had that kind of a night.
BERNICE: It's good for me to worry about something that really matters instead of the stupid stuff that's usually on my mind.
JOHN: ( a big grin ) You're fantastic, Bernie.I love It's a slant. ( pause then ) Hey..I know there's a lot you went through but I knew all along that Grandma was right about you coming back..I mean totally knew it so I wasn't that worried. But still I. ( some emotion out of I really appreciate it, Dad. Thanks..Stop staring at me..what? You don't know what to say?
BERNICE: ( a big grin ) You're fantastic, Bernie.I love It's a slant. ( pause then ) Hey..I know there's a lot you went through but I knew all along that Grandma was right about you coming back..I mean totally knew it so I wasn't that worried. But still I. ( some emotion out of I really appreciate it, Dad. Thanks..Stop staring at me..what? You don't know what to say?
JOHN: You're fantastic, Bernie.I love It's a slant. Hey..I know there's a lot you went through but I knew all along that Grandma was right about you coming back..I mean totally knew it so I wasn't that worried. But still I. I really appreciate it, Dad. Thanks..Stop staring at me..what? You don't know what to say?
BERNICE: It's a slant. Hey..I know there's a lot you went through but I knew all along that Grandma was right about you coming back..I mean totally knew it so I wasn't that worried. But still I. I really appreciate it, Dad. Thanks..Stop staring at me..what? You don't know what to say?
JOHN: Right. I don't know what to say.
BERNICE: Just what you taught me..You're You're welcome.
JOHN: You're welcome.
CRISTINA: Hey, mom.Is it okay if we don't leave right away?
FLOR: ( as Cristina begins to No..and we must say "goodbye." I don't work here anymore.
GEORGIE: Do I have to get out?
FLOR: No, Georgie..Stay. I think you are a wonderful boy..be good..like you are. There are no monsters.
GEORGIE: Thanks..thanks. Okay.
BERNICE: ( severely to Georgie ) I can't believe you didn't get out.
GEORGIE: Flor said.
BERNICE: ( to Flor ) I don't want to get you wet.
FLOR: Get me wet.
BERNICE: ( rushing to hug her )
EVELYN: ( to Bernice ) You're a beauty. Amazing girl.
FLOR: ( to Bernice ) You're a beauty. Amazing girl.
BERNICE: My last chance to have some of you rub off on me.. I'm sorry you're so sad but this could have been so much worse.
CRISTINA: ( from her depths )
EVELYN: ( to Cristina ) Why don't you run upstairs and say goodbye to Deborah?
FLOR: I'll be in front.
DEBORAH: Please come see me.
DEBORAH'S VOICE: It's okay, honey..we'll see each other at school..I'm going to keep an eye on you..I will.
DEBORAH: Please stick your head in here for a minute.
DEBORAH: What's with avoiding me, am I this horrible person?
FLOR: No. It's a good question. A fine question. Complicated. I was just thinking to answer.
DEBORAH: Oh stop. Come on. Weren't we Well, I'm very, very disappointed to hear that. It makes me feel like a fool.
FLOR: ( like a shot ) ( truly hurt ) Well, I'm very, very disappointed to hear that. It makes me feel like a fool.
DEBORAH: ( truly hurt ) Well, I'm very, very disappointed to hear that. It makes me feel like a fool.
FLOR: ( compassion forces a We weren't close..but we were connected.in a bad way.
DEBORAH: ( strangely soothed ) You know something, I think we're saying the same thing.Look as long as we're doing closure..What did you and my husband, John, do last night?
FLOR: I can only tell you what I did.
DEBORAH: That will be sufficient.
FLOR: ( these are tender I became sure of what an incredibly lucky woman you are and I must make myself not envy you which is hard. No, it's not hard. It's impossible. Now please..I am exhausted.
DEBORAH: Same here - believe me.
FLOR: Cristina, apúrate.
JOHN: I was hanging out here waiting. Can't give you guys a lift?
FLOR: Yes, Cari..
JOHN: ( reading Flor ) Let her have it..party favors.
FLOR: Goodbye, Mr. Clasky..I am very sorry we will not see each other as
CRISTINA: Goodbye, Mr. Clasky..I am very sorry we will not see each other as
FLOR: They turn and begin walking down the street.
NARRATOR: The first minute we were alone, my mother told me that I would no longer go to the private school.
CRISTINA: No. No..You can't. I won't be able to forgive you..It will be the end. I won't let you.
NARRATOR: My mother changed our lives once more. This time because she saw in me, to her great alarm, a character flaw of some size. She has taught me to be a watch dog of my character, to control my ambition. I am not quite there.
