SPEED RACER: Written by
TEST QUESTION: Grace buys a bag of 240 jellybeans. There are 35 yellow ones, 52 red ones, 63 green ones, 26 white ones, 41 blue ones and 40 black ones. If Grace wants to eat one of each while keeping her eyes closed, what is the minimum number she will have to eat? His mouth tries to makes sense of the question but it's not working. He looks around at the other students quietly, diligently filling in their ovals while he fidgets, his leg beating, his pencil fluttering, a pot jiggling its lid, about to boil over. He reads the question again. Greek. Chinese. Meaningless. He looks up at the clock. The second hand sweeps towards the 12. Then back at the test. Something suddenly clicks. second hand hits the 12 and he's off- Filling in the ovals faster than it seems he could possibly be reading the questions.
MOM: No, that's not exactly right. Your son seems to be interested in only one thing. Mom knows what's coming.
DISTRACTED: No, that's not exactly right. Your son seems to be interested in only one thing. Mom knows what's coming.
TEACHER: No, that's not exactly right. Your son seems to be interested in only one thing. Mom knows what's coming.
MOM: Well you know, his father designs racing cars.
TEACHER: And where is your husband?
MOM: He's-working. He couldn't make Perhaps the apple hasn't fallen very far from the tree. Mom is uncomfortable with that truth while the Teacher glances back to her records.
TEACHER: Perhaps the apple hasn't fallen very far from the tree. Mom is uncomfortable with that truth while the Teacher glances back to her records.
MOM: No, Rex is his older brother. Why?
TEACHER: This is the test he turned in last She holds up the Scantron test that Speed was working on. The bottom half of the ovals are filled in to spell out:
TEACHER: Alright, pencils down, bring your
TESTS: Thwack! Speed slaps his down and is already heading for the door.
REX: .I take it you're ready to go? Speed nods. Rex climbs in beside him.
YOUNG SPEED: Fine. Are you going to the track? Mom said you were. You don't have to drop me off, I could just go with you.
REX: No way. He starts the car and roadster growls to life.
YOUNG SPEED: Oh, come on, take me with you. Come on, please.
REX: I can't, Speed. Pops would kill YOUNG SPEED He doesn't have to know. I won't say anything. Nobody will know. Come on, please, Rex, pleaseplease Rex sighs, knowing there's no way he can with this.
YOUNG SPEED: He doesn't have to know. I won't say anything. Nobody will know. Come on, please, Rex, pleaseplease Rex sighs, knowing there's no way he can with this.
REX: Are you wearing the socks? Lickety-split, Speed sticks his sneaker up against the dash board and pulls back his pant leg revealing A bright red sock.
YOUNG SPEED: INT. THUNDERHEAD LOCKER ROOM - NIGHT - PRESENT A lone figure sits on a bench away from us; his racing suit is unzipped to the waist and he sits with his head down as though he was praying. He is wearing a pair of bright red socks. After a moment, he pulls his boots on, zips up his suit and stands looking into the locker. Propped against this gloves is a photo of Rex. This is Speed ten years later. He takes the photo and slides it into one of the zippered pockets of his suit. He grabs his gloves and slams the locker shut.
REX: Feel that shimmy? That's your hind legs trying to outrun you're What do I do?
SPEED: What do I do?
REX: Stop steering and start driving. Speed gets serious, his lips tightening the way a hand knots into a fist.
SPEED: No way!
REX: No? Well maybe you can't hear it then. Maybe. you ought to start hitting those books
SPEED: No! I hear it!
REX: That so? Okay Mr. Burns, you tell me when to gas it for the jump.
SPEED: The jump glides towards them as the tires seem to whisper to Speed.
LOCAL ANNOUNCER: local fan favorite, Speed racer is just gobbling up this track, slipping car after car
AUSTRALIAN ANNOUNCER: clearly a rising star, with several big wins since turning pro, though he remains without a major sponsor
CHINESE ANNOUNCER: a win tonight could put him within range of qualifying for the Grand Prix
FRENCH ANNOUNCER: let us hope he does not make the same mistakes that his older brother made
SPARKY: Head's up,.Speed! Seven o'clock. I got Snake drafting.Pitter-pat. Speed looks into his mirror and sees a car with orange and black markings, stacked up tight behind another car.
SPEED: I got him.
SPARKY: I figure he'll slingshot after you in the next turn.
SPEED: I'm ready.
SPARKY: Great move, Speed. Careful on the butterfly coming up. You may wanna ease up
SPEED: Not this time, Sparky.
SPARKY: Holy canoli, Speed, You know who you're racing?
SPEED: Just ahead, the ghost of his brother's car launches up the second jump and when ti comes down we are back in the EXT. THUNDERHEAD RACEWAY - NIGHT - PAST Rex drives the older model T-180, a man on a mission, dominating the race exactly like Speed.
YOUNG SPEED: Rex's gonna win, ain't he, Pops? Pops checks his watch but almost can't believe it. He goes back to his binoculars.
POPS: Quiet, Speed! There's a lotta race to run.
YOUNG SPPED: No way. It's over. My brother's the best racer in the world. Everybody else is running for The cars rocket through the twisted mobius of steel.
BLACKJACK BENELLI: I told you to take him out!
LOCAL ANNOUNCER: it's unbelievable folks, no one's seen moves like this, since that remarkable night eight years
AGO: HAROLD LEDERMAN ANNOUNCER there's no doubt in my mind, he's gunning for it
AUSTRALIAN ANNOUNCER: driving like a man possessed, a man haunted by his past-
CHINESE ANNOUNCER: a record that has stood for eight years set by.his,older
FRENCH ANNOUNCER: he is not alone out there, he is chasing someone, he is chasing the ghost of Rex Racer
SPRITTLE: Jeepers, he could do it, Pops. He could really do it, couldn't he? Pops goes back to his binos.
POPS: I don't know if I can watch He holds the binos as though afraid to look when A hairy hand comes in and takes them away. Chim-chim, sitting on the chair next to Sprittle, puts the binos to his eyes. Speed flies through a piece of tricky track drawing another cheer. Sprittle grabs the binos back just as the beautiful young woman, standing on the other side of Pops, lowers her. Trixie chews at her lip, feeling a knot twist into her EXT. SUBURBAN STREET- DAY - PAST The little girl wearing the pink barrette is walking with a pack of girls, their little mouths as sharp as razors. In the distance we hear a high-pitched motorized whine.
SPRITTLE: I don't know if I can watch He holds the binos as though afraid to look when A hairy hand comes in and takes them away. Chim-chim, sitting on the chair next to Sprittle, puts the binos to his eyes. Speed flies through a piece of tricky track drawing another cheer. Sprittle grabs the binos back just as the beautiful young woman, standing on the other side of Pops, lowers her. Trixie chews at her lip, feeling a knot twist into her EXT. SUBURBAN STREET- DAY - PAST The little girl wearing the pink barrette is walking with a pack of girls, their little mouths as sharp as razors. In the distance we hear a high-pitched motorized whine.
TRIXIE: Speed's not crazy.
ANYONE: Whatever it is, when their eyes suddenly meet, he finds he is unable to look away Staring at her, as he drives off the road, crashing through a hedge and tumbling down a hill.
TRIXIE: She runs to help him. He is laying sprawled out, his car on its side, wheels still spinning.
SPEED: .who are you?
TRIXIE: I'm Trixie. I'm in your class.
SPEED: .oh .yeah. He stares at her for a minute, powder-puffs of clouds floating about her head.
COLLECTION: She smiles.
TRIXIE: I'd love to.
SPEED: Hey, Rex. Hey Pops.
RE X: Hey, Speedy.
POPS: Who's your friend?
SPEED: Her name's Trixie. She's in my Pleasure to meet you, young lady.
TRIXIE: Pleasure to meet you, young lady.
POPS: Pleasure to meet you, young lady.
SPEED: Hey pops, a guy wanted me to give this to you. He said he was a big He hands him the package and Pops smiles.
POPS: A fan, is it? Not often we get someone with such good taste around here. Where is he?
SPEED: He was in a hurry. Driving a '68 Fendersin. Sweet set. of wheels. The car description rings a bell for Rex.
REX: Let me see that. He grabs the box, then holds it to his ear. It's ticking. He jams it into the go-cart, against the pedal and slaps it in reverse. The go.cart shoots out of the garage and down the driveway until It explodes, an enormous fireball ballooning up past the tree tops. Trixie's eyes flash with excitement.
TRIXIE: Cool beans!
LOCAL ANNOUNCER: no one from these parts will forget the tragic story of Rex
RACER: HAROLD LEDERMAN ANNOUNCER he nearly ruined racing
AUSTRALIAN ANNOUNCER: single-handedly tried to save
RACING: CHINESE ANNOUNCER one of the greatest scandals in the history of the sport
CHINESE ANNOUNCER: one of the greatest scandals in the history of the sport
FRENCH ANNOUNCER: it is always the brightest star that burn out the fastest
REX: Not this time, Speedy.
SPEED: When are you coming back?
REX: I don't know. I don't know. He snaps the bag shut.
SPEED: I won't. He hugs his little brother, knowing it might be for the last time.
POPS: So, you're quitting?
REX: I have to.
POPS: No you don't. This is a choice. You're selling out, walking away from everything we've built here.
REX: I'm done arguing with you Pops. He turns back towards the door.
POPS: Don't you walk away from me!
REX: You can't tell me what to do. It's my life to live. He takes hold of the doorknob.
POPS: If you walk out that door, you better not ever come back! The door slams in response.
ON: watching a big race that Rex is in. Mom and Pops are the couch behind him. All of them sit in.a suspended state, a fist of tension squeezing the breath out of them. One the screen, is a cloud of smoke billowing from a tangle of metal.
RALLY ANNOUNCER: We don't know that but I imagine the WRL will be reviewing this COLOR ANNOUNCER That's the third DNF crash Racer's been involved in! Review it? Heck, the oughta just suspend him.
COLOR ANNOUNCER: That's the third DNF crash Racer's been involved in! Review it? Heck, the oughta just suspend him.
POPS: Turn it off, Speed! I don't want you watching this anymore.
RACE ANNOUNCER: Rex Racer almost took Yokima's head off wit that jump!
RACE COMMENTATOR: There's absolutely no doubt in my mind that Rex Racer is the dirtiest driver in the world. Lit by the soft glow of the small tv, Speed blinks and the first tears slip silently down his cheeks.
BIG MOUTH: I just told him the truth! His crum-bum brother doesn't belong on a racetrack he belongs in jail! Speed tears free and torpedoes Big Mouth again.
LOCAL ANNOUNCER: the trial of Rex Racer shook the World Racing League to tis very
RAT: AUSTRALIAN ANNOUNCER the indictment brought down perennial racing powerhouse
AUSTRALIAN ANNOUNCER: the indictment brought down perennial racing powerhouse
UNIROYAL: CHINESE ANNOUNCER Uniroyal was linked to the notorious fixer Blackjack Benelli
CHINESE ANNOUNCER: Uniroyal was linked to the notorious fixer Blackjack Benelli
FRENCH ANNOUNCER: still in prison to this day, Benelli was rumored to be behind the Casa Cristo tragedy The two cars swerve, heading for a collision as we cut
LOCAL ANNOUNCER: he's comin'hard, it's gonna be
CLOSE: HAROLD LEDERMAN ANNOUNCER forget the past, he's sayin', this is my night
AUSTRALIAN ANNOUNCER: there's a new Racer in town
CHINESE ANNOUNCER: poised to wipe the slate clean
FRENCH ANNOUNCER: escaping the dark shadow of his older brother The checkered flag goes up, ready as the two cars come screaming towards the finish line The large digital clock seemingly synchronized with the past as. Speed looks over at the ghost car, the faintest smile on his lips as he sees his older brother and then Takes his foot off the accelerator, letting Rex's car surge ahead, crossing just before Speed. The time is just over the record causing disappointment to ripple through the crowd except for The Racer family who seem both relived and happy.
SPRITTLE: Come on, Let's go! Victory Lane!
FRENCH ANNOUNCER: Zut alors! What a race!
CHINESE ANNOUNCER: by a cat's whisker
AUSTRALIAN ANNOUNCER: the record still stands
LOCAL ANNOUNCER: Folks, I knew Rex Racer and if he's up there somewhere watching this race, you can bet your ass, he's damn proud of his little INT. RACER X'S PENTHOUSE - NIGHT Walls of glass overlooking a galaxy of.twinkling cityscape; a penthouse created as a diamond is created, every face a perfect stroke of precision.
MINX: He' going to be very good.
RACER X: No. He's going to be the best. The crowd swarms around Speed's car.
SPRITTLE: Racer residence.
CORPORATE AGENT: Good morning, I was hoping to speak with Speed racer.
SPRITTLE: He's not interested. He hangs up.
MOM: SPR ITTLE It's true!
SPR ITTLE: It's true!
MOM: That's not for you to say.
SPRITTLE: Speed's gotta drive for Pops!
MOM: That's for Speeed to decide. The phone rings again. Sprittle grabs it quickly.
SPRITTLE: CORPORATE AGENT #2 Is this the Racer residence? He glances at Mom.
SPRITTLE: He hangs up. Shrugs.
BEN: Speed now sleeps in Rex's old room. The poster of Burns is still tacked to the wall above the bed. Mom opens the door.
MOM: Come on, Champ. Rise and shine. Breakfast's ready. to the Speed's hair.seems to remain asleep, still molded pillow as he tries to push himself up.
SPEED: .I'm up, I'm up.
THE: Mom spatulas another short stack of pancakes from griddle and shovels them like coal into the blazing maw of a locomotive, dumping them onto the plates of Sprittle and Chim-chim.
POPS: "It was a virtuoso display of talent, the likes of which has not been seen at Thunderhead since Racer the elder dropped jaws eight. years ago. Now, as we once again, pull our collective jaws up from the floor, we have to ask, will it be different this time, or will
TRAGEDY: That's enough of that, Hon. Pops puts down the paper and Sparky picks it up.
MOM: That's enough of that, Hon. Pops puts down the paper and Sparky picks it up.
SPARKY: I just can't believe there wasn't one mention of Racer motors in That's because the Sponsors run the media, Sparky. Trixie enters through the back door.
POPS: That's because the Sponsors run the media, Sparky. Trixie enters through the back door.
TRIXIE: Mornin' everyone. Is Speed up yet? Speed stumbles in the door.
SPEED: .in spirit anyway.
TRIXIE: Hey superstar, did you see the papers? They're all in love with He sits, grabbing the paper.
SPEED: He sits, grabbing the paper.
SPARKY: Yeah, but there sure is a lot of speculation about which team's going to pick him up
SPEED: Speed starts to read and suddenly the room begins to rumble, glasses shaking, plates rattling.
POPS: What the?
SPRITTLE: He and Chim-chim begin wailing in panic.
POPS: Sprittle calm down!
SPEEED: Pops the kitchen's the most dangerous room in a house during an earthquake! The whole table shivers and it seems the hanging ceiling light might shake free when the tremor begins to subside. Sprittle and Chim-chim, wearing a pot and a metal colander for protection, look around, expecting something bad to happen. The house becomes pin-prick quiet when The doorbell rings.
POPS: Uh, thanks but. who are you? He seems to rise up an inch taller as he introduces WELL DRESSED MAN I am E.P. Arnold Remmingtonton Esquire, President and Chairman of Remmington Industries and it is my honor to meet you both. He reaches for Pops' free hand.
REMMINGTON: Mr. Racer, I have been an ardent admirer of your work for years. I remember the first time I saw the prototype for the Mach-1, I told everyone that it didn't belong on a race track, it belonged in an art museum. Pops chuckles.
POPS: Yeah, she was a beaut.
REMMINGTON: No, sir. She was a revelation. He suddenly smells the pancakes.
MOM: Are you hungry, Mr. Remmington?
REMMINGTON: A figure like mine requires constant attention, Mrs. Racer.
MOM: Do you like pancakes?
REMMINGTON: When I was a child we used to say, "pankuken zin liesben." Neither of them speak German.
REMMINGTON: Gorgeous, Mrs. Racer. Superb density. Hints of vanilla. Cinnamon. Absolutely gorgeous.
MOM: I'm glad you like them.
REMMINGTON: Like them? I want to-buy your He takes out his hand held computer and beings making I can give you the recipe, Mr. Nonsense. Cenestro Foods, a sub- division of Remmington Industries is planning a new range of home- cooked meals for travelers and this is just the kind of magic we're looking for. I'll have my attorney draw up the paperwork. Mom looks at Pops feeling flattered but again a distinct REMMINGTON ( CONT'D ) Now, then. We all know the reason I'm here is because of you, Speed. I was watching last night and I have to tell you young man, you gave me goosebumps. I know at once, this was no mere driver I was watching. This was an artist. Speed's ears go a bit red.
MOM: I can give you the recipe, Mr. Nonsense. Cenestro Foods, a sub- division of Remmington Industries is planning a new range of home- cooked meals for travelers and this is just the kind of magic we're looking for. I'll have my attorney draw up the paperwork. Mom looks at Pops feeling flattered but again a distinct REMMINGTON ( CONT'D ) Now, then. We all know the reason I'm here is because of you, Speed. I was watching last night and I have to tell you young man, you gave me goosebumps. I know at once, this was no mere driver I was watching. This was an artist. Speed's ears go a bit red.
REMMINGTON: Nonsense. Cenestro Foods, a sub- division of Remmington Industries is planning a new range of home- cooked meals for travelers and this is just the kind of magic we're looking for. I'll have my attorney draw up the paperwork. Mom looks at Pops feeling flattered but again a distinct REMMINGTON ( CONT'D ) Now, then. We all know the reason I'm here is because of you, Speed. I was watching last night and I have to tell you young man, you gave me goosebumps. I know at once, this was no mere driver I was watching. This was an artist. Speed's ears go a bit red.
SPEED: Driver's only as good as the car.
REMMINGTON: I appreciate modesty, Speed but I do not exaggerate when is ay that you are a genius. Watching you reminded me of why I love racing and I am grateful for that. Thank You're welcome, I guess.
SPEED: You're welcome, I guess.
REMMINGTON: I imagine the phone has been ringing off the hook.
SPRITTLE: Speed's not interest in driving for you or any other sponsor.
REMMINGTON: Is this your manager then?
MOM: He's our youngest. Sprittle.
REMMINGTON: Nice to meet you, youngster.
SPRITTLE: We got out eye on you, Mister.
REMMINGTON: Excellent. The first thing I want to make perfectly clear is that I have no intention whatsoever of trying to get Speed away from Racer motors. What you have here is what teams spend years and millions of dollars trying to achieve: chemistry. Car designer, mechanic and driver all coming together in perfect, harmony. I wouldn't dare touch a thing.
SPEED: Well, excuse me for asking, but what do you want?
REMMINGTON: To help. I want to make sure you have access to whatever resources you need to continue doing exactly what you are doing.
POPS: I assume, Mr. Remmington that you are not talking about Remmington chuckles.
REMMINGTON: I like when my partners have a sense of humor. And that's what I'm talking about. A partnership. An alliance between your amazing family and mine. That's exactly what Remmington Industries is to me, a family. Like yours. Just a little bigger. Pops isn't exactly buying it.
POPS: No offense, Remmington but Racer Motors runs as an independent.
REMMINGTON: None taken. I completely understand. I sympathize.
MOM: I've never flown so low through the city.
REMMINGTON: Special permit. Only six of them are granted a year.
FLIGHT ATTENDANT: Take whatever you like. He looks at her for a moment like is in love, then turns back to the drawer where he and Chim-chim lunge for it, pushing each other back.
POPS: She said we could! Pop growls at him, his eyes telling them they'd better not take more than one piece. Hang-dogged heads, they each grab one piece of candy?
SPRITTLE: She said we could! Pop growls at him, his eyes telling them they'd better not take more than one piece. Hang-dogged heads, they each grab one piece of candy?
POPS: What do you say?
SPRITTLE: Thank you. She closes the drawer, their eyes seen through the racks, watching paradise disappear as though a mirage.
SPARKY: Hey, there's the Grand Prix Sprittle and Chim-chim rush to Sparky's window. They can see the entire track and even from this height it seems Sprittle turns to Remmington.
SPRITTLE: My brother's going to win the Grand Prix one day. Remmington's eyes glint.
REMMINGTON: No doubt in my mind; young man. Given the right circumstances, I have no doubt whatsoever.
REMMINGTON: This is Gennie. She's our Talent Manager. Ask for anything, her job's to make it come true.
GENNIE: Hi, Speed. Welcome to Remmington. He shakes her hand while she signals to another man who immediately begins scanning speed with an electronic measuring device.
SPEED: What's this?
REMMINGTON: To make an informed decision you'll need to understand how we take care of our drivers. The tailor finishes quickly as an electric cart, the kind designed for a group tour pulls up.
SPRITTLE: They climb on and the driver pulls into the tramway.
REMMINGTON: Remmington Tower is the crown jewel among the properties that I control. It functions as the corporate headquarters for he top twelve divisions of our parent corp. One big industries family. The turn a corner heading for a large set of doors with the double "R" logo of Remmington Racecars.
REMMINGTON: I've always felt that it is impossible to peer into the window of Tomorrow without a clear view of the Past.
SPRITTLE: That's the Crystal Horse with the Apache SuperCharger!
REMINGTON: Winner of the Grand Prix in '69, ' 70 and '73.
SPRITTLE: No. Wrong. '72. '71 was the Vundervopper with the K-2 twin turbine and '73 was the Kenobe Motorstar re-built with a VC ;triple chamber. Remmington considers arguing.
SPEED: Don't bother. He's never wrong. They pass out of the museum.
REMINGTON: Our vertically integrated plant is the fastest in the world. From initial carbon bond to finished car in 36 hours. How long does it take at Racer Motors?
SPARKY: Several weeks at least. Remmington turns to Pops.
REMINGTON: This kind of production facility could be at your disposal, Mr. The cart motor hums and slides back onto the tramway.
REMMINGTON: This is our operating theater where our patented Refusion Energy Distributor Network is installed in the turbine drive. Sparky's eye light up.
SPARKY: Is that an inner-positive It is indeed. Sparky shoots a look at Pops.
REMMINGTON: It is indeed. Sparky shoots a look at Pops.
REMMINGTON: Now, I'll take you up to the Team Remmington training facility. The west door opens and the cart glides out into a new tramway which is not as industrial feeling as the first one, decorated with a vinyl wainscotting and slightly up- graded lights. The higher you go in the Remmington Tower, the nicer the halls are decorated.
REMMINGTON: As you know, a T-180 driver's got to be in peak physical condition. Across from the gym is a smaller window where the typical anaerobic test is being conducted on a female driver. She is running on a treadmill with lost of wires hooked up to her while several doctors not their approval at the read- REMMINGTON ( CONT'D ) No expense is spared to make sure that when our driver's suit up they are as perfectly tuned as the machines they are controlling. The next window is a massive centrifuge; a huge mechanical arm whipping around a small capsule that blasts past the window.
REMMINGTON: I hope I didn't care you, Speed with how hard we push our team. I just wanted you to see how serious we are committed to winning.
SPEED: I get that.
REMMINGTON: Good. But also understand that R.I. Isn't all work and no play. The door opens revealing the Drivers' Club.
SPRITTLE: That's Cannonball Taylor! Speed urns and sees the Captain of the Remmington Team.
REMMINGTON: Stop the cart. Jack! Jack, come here. There's someone I want you to meet. Cannonball saunters over, wearing his two goiter-sized, diamond-encrusted champion rings.
SPEED: Honor to meet you.
CANONBALL: Caught that Thunderhead replay. Nice piece of work.
SPEED: Wow, thanks.
CANONBALL: There was a rumor you might be It's pretty impressive.
SPEED: It's pretty impressive.
CANONBALL: Only thing I cared about was that wall over there. He gestures to a special wall fitted with the trophies and medals won by team Remmington through the years.
REMMINGTON: Thanks, Jack. Jack nods and the cart pulls away but not before Jack shoots a backward glance at Speed that feels like a shank in a prison yard.
SPARKY: Long way from Nob Hill, eh?
REMMINGTON: We treat our thoroughbreds the way they deserve to be treated. He guides them into the room gesturing or demonstrating all of the amenities.
GENNIE: Should be perfect. Try it on.
TRIXIE: Mmm hmm!
SPEED: He heads to the bathroom. Taking Mom by the elbow, Remmington gestures to the sitting area over-looking Cosmopolis.
REMMINGTON: So Mrs. Racer, what do you think about my family? Impressed?
MOM: You could say that.
REMMINGTON: Good. I want you to understand the possibilities that exist for your son right now. Pops furrows his brow.
POPS: To be honest, Remmington, I'm feeling more intimidated than impressed. This kind of company scares me. People like you have way too much money and when someone has this kind of money, they start thinking that the rules everyone else is playing by don't mean squat to them. Remmington remains skillfully unfazed.
TRIXIE: Hubba hubba. He walks over to the sitting area.
MOM: Oh honey, you looks so handsome.
SPEED: Very sharp, Speed. Suits you perfectly. Regardless of what happens, I want you to have all of it. A gift.
REMMINGTON: Very sharp, Speed. Suits you perfectly. Regardless of what happens, I want you to have all of it. A gift.
SPEED: Thanks, Mr. Remmington.
REMMINGTON: So, how are you feeling Speed? Speed isn't sure. He looks at Trixie and Sparky and then at his parents.
SPEED: It's very. impressive. Remmington smiles.
REMMINGTON: You think that maybe there's something that could work out Everyone waits, staring at him.
SPEED: I guess I'd like to think about it, if I .could. has really Remmington's a fisherman not sure if the hook been set.
REMMINGTON: This isn't the kind of offer I go around making ever day, son.
SPEED: I understand that, sir. He looks to Pops then takes a deep breath as though trying to find his resolve.
REMMINGTON: Stop. Right there. You're right. You should think about it. I'm sure you're feeling a bit overwhelmed. You should take a little time. Think about what you saw and heard here and we'll get together early next week. Deal? He reaches his hand out and Speed takes it with some obvious relief.
SPEED: INT. CRUNCHER BLOCK'S OFFICE WHACK! WHACK! WHACK! A thug soundly slaps the face ofa handsome Japanese man. When the beating is over, the Japanese man slumps forward, his arms behind his back.
CRUNCHER: Ithought we had a deal. When he hears the voice, he lifts his head and we see a huge man with a body like a cement-lined safe, sitting behind a desk, lighting a cigar. This well-dressed fixer is Cruncher Block.
THUG #1: You hurt our feelings!
CRUNCHER: Problem is, I like you Katsu. Cruncher grins, his teeth like stacked dice.
KATSU: THUG #2 Hope dem fishes like Japanese.
THUG #2: Hope dem fishes like Japanese.
KATSU: No, please!
THUG #1: Gonna be hard to drive with skellie hands. Cruncher takes hold of Katsu's jaw.
CRUNCHER: You even think about turning rat and next time it's your sister going in there.
A: They begin forcing his hand into the tank when suddenly red light begins flashing. Everyone freezes. Cruncher grabs the phone on his desk.
TRUCK DRIVER: Someone's tailing us.
CRUNCHER: is it him?
DOOR GUARD: It could be. Cruncher goes to the phone.
CRUNCHER: Can you see him yet?
TRUCK DRIVER: Here he comes The car pulls up even with the cab and the driver feels his gut clench as he recognizes the infamous car of Racer
CRUNCHER: Get him! Everyone leaps into action, shoving Katsu back into a chair. Filling their fists with guns, sliding open murder holes slots at a variety of heights. Cruncher barks into the phone.
CRUNCHER: Where is he?
TRUCK DRIVER: He's out front.
CRUNCHER: He fires a mini-rocket straight at the manta-finned car But with a quick feint left the rocket skims by, exploding further down the highway. Something flashes on the back car as hidden tubes iris open and the barrels of several weapons extend out.
TRUCK DRIVER: Here he comes! Cruncher fires again, the red rocket just missing, rending open the tree line with a fireball.
CRUNCHER: Aww, I thought you fixed that! The black car fires again, bullets ricocheting inside, puncturing a hole in the fish tank.
THUG #1: My babies! He runs to the fish tank and tries to stop the water pouring out of the hole. He sticks his finger in and the fish immediately attack. He shrieks withdrawing his finger.
CRUNCHER: My babies! He runs to the fish tank and tries to stop the water pouring out of the hole. He sticks his finger in and the fish immediately attack. He shrieks withdrawing his finger.
TRUCK DRIVER: We can't take another hit boss!
CRUNCHER: Pull over but don't stop.
KATSU: Thank you. You saved my life.
RACER X: I didn't save anything worth saving unless you get smart. Real Racer talks without looking at him.
KATSU: I don't know what'you're talking RACER X You won the Cortex Invitational and you weren't supposed to. You did it to save Okamoto It has belonged to my family for five generations.
RACER X: You won the Cortex Invitational and you weren't supposed to. You did it to save Okamoto It has belonged to my family for five generations.
KATSU: It has belonged to my family for five generations.
RACER X: And now someone else wants it. The only way you can stop it from happening is to talk to the There is nothing to talk about.
KATSU: There is nothing to talk about.
RACER X: You have been on cruncher Block's leash for.so long maybe you forgot how it feels to stand up and be a man. The only way you'll ever stop these people is to bring them to Justice/ That's a commodity I don't waste money on. Racer X immediately pulls his car over.
KATSU: Justice/ That's a commodity I don't waste money on. Racer X immediately pulls his car over.
RACER X: Get out. Wearing his smirk like a cheap suit, Katsu gets out.
KATSU: I'll see you at Fuji.
RACER X: You won't finish. When you lose, if you can still dial a phone, call this number. He hands him a card. The card reads; CHIEF INSPECTOR
KID: Sprittle is working hard on a test when he hears the behind him whisper.
DANNY: Hey monkey-lover, show me your test or I'll kick your ass after Sorry. Cheaters never prosper. The kid to the left chimes in.
SPRITTLE: Sorry. Cheaters never prosper. The kid to the left chimes in.
MALCOM: Spriiiitle, when Chim-chim's bad, do you spank the monkey?
SPRITTLE: No, your mother does it for me. Malcom almost swallows his tongue as several other kids All right! Malcom! Danny! Sprittle! To the Principal's office. March! There is a chorus of, "I didn't do it, awwww, not fair."
TEACHER: All right! Malcom! Danny! Sprittle! To the Principal's office. March! There is a chorus of, "I didn't do it, awwww, not fair."
SPEED: Looks like someone's in trouble INT. MACH 5 It's later and they're driving home. Sprittle stares out the window, mumbling, identifying make, model, and engines of passing cars.
SPEED: Want to talk about it? Sprittle shakes his head.
SPRITTLE: K-W Integral 4-door with twin-cam turbine.C-foster-K 1200, modified split-rail and Was it that Stanton kid again? Did he say something? If you want to kick his butt? He shakes his head again.
SPEED: Was it that Stanton kid again? Did he say something? If you want to kick his butt? He shakes his head again.
SPRITTLE: .it doesn't seem fair that I get in trouble, when they always start It's not fair. But that's what bullies do. They make the world That sucks.
SPEED: It's not fair. But that's what bullies do. They make the world That sucks.
SPRITTLE: That sucks.
SPEED: Yes, it does.
SPRITTLE: What can I do about it?
SPEED: You ignore 'em when you can, fight 'em when you can't.
SPRITTLE: Those choices suck too.
SPEED: Yeah, but just try to keep one thing in mind.
SPRITTLE: Bullies come and go but a family can torture you forever. Chim-chim gives Sprittle a wet-willy.
SPEED: Bullies come and go but a family can torture you forever. Chim-chim gives Sprittle a wet-willy.
SPRITTLE: Speed laughs as Chim-chim howls and then puts his arm around Sprittle.
SPEED: But no joke, you just say the word, little brother and we got your back, right Chim-chim? Chim-chim grunts.
SPRITTLE: Thanks guys.
REMMINGTON: The new GRX has a super charged inner-positive transporter and will be capable of speeds in excess off 800 kilometers an hour. Mushi nods.
MUSHI: If such a car were to win the Grand Prix this year, one would expect the demand for transponders to increase dramatically.
REMMINGTON: One would expect.
MUSHI: And if a single company gained control of all the transponder foundries in the world, one might expect that company to do very well for itself.
REMMINGTON: You know what I want and I know that for the last few years you have been trying to buy out your main rival Tetsua Okamoto. The question is, can we make a deal? The car rotates, rising up on its mechanical arm, a cybernetic giant, exercising its might.
MUSHI: Deliver Okamoto at that price and the Taiobi Transponder foundry is Remington smiles as they shake hands.
REMMINGTON: Remington smiles as they shake hands.
TRIXIE: You're really considering signing with Remmington.
SPEED: I just said it was tempting.
TRIXIE: Well, they got a really good team.. Cannonball Taylor, Markie Manifold. They win a lot of Since when did winning become so It is important. You gotta win if you want to keep driving and that's what I want to do. It's the only thing I really know how to do. When I'm driving, I feel like that's the only time my life makes sense. She moves closer to him.
SPEED: Well, they got a really good team.. Cannonball Taylor, Markie Manifold. They win a lot of Since when did winning become so It is important. You gotta win if you want to keep driving and that's what I want to do. It's the only thing I really know how to do. When I'm driving, I feel like that's the only time my life makes sense. She moves closer to him.
TRIXIE: Since when did winning become so It is important. You gotta win if you want to keep driving and that's what I want to do. It's the only thing I really know how to do. When I'm driving, I feel like that's the only time my life makes sense. She moves closer to him.
SPEED: It is important. You gotta win if you want to keep driving and that's what I want to do. It's the only thing I really know how to do. When I'm driving, I feel like that's the only time my life makes sense. She moves closer to him.
TRIXIE: You mean, this doesn't make sense to you?
SPEED: Okay, besides being with you.
TRIXIE: So you like being with me?
SPEED: You know I do.
TRIXIE: Sometimes I do, sometimes I'm not so sure.
SPEED: Sometimes around your family, you seem distant, not like this and I wonder why.
TRIXIE: Sometimes around your family, you seem distant, not like this and I wonder why.
SPEED: Come on, you know how I've felt about you since I was ten years I guess so, I just wish you weren't so shy about it.
TRIXIE: I guess so, I just wish you weren't so shy about it.
SPEED: What do you want me to do? Kiss you in front of everyone at the end of a big race?
TRIXIE: Would that be so terrible?
SPEED: I don't know. Maybe we should practice first.
TRIXIE: Maybe we should. They start to kiss when they hear a muted voice.
SPRITTLE: Oh God! I'm gonna hurl! Huuuurrrl!
TRIXIE: CONTINUED: ( 2 ) Speed jumps out of the car.
SPEED: CONTINUED: ( 2 ) Speed jumps out of the car.
SPRITTLE: It wasn't my idea!
SPEED: Oh no?
SPRITTLE: It was his! He points at Chim-chim who shakes his head wildly, pointing back at Sprittle.
TRIXIE: Wait till we tell Pops.
SPRITTLE: No! Don't do that! We're sorry. We couldn't sleep. We just wanted to hang out. We didn't know you were going to In-spew-ration Point. By the way, Cootie-shots. Sprittle and Chim-chim immediately cover one shoulder giving themselves a cootie-shot.
SPEED: I'm taking you home.
SPRITTLE: Wait, wait, wait Speed slams•the trunk shut so we hear Sprittle voice muffled
POPS: Morning, Speed.
SPEED: So, today's the big day. Speed nods. Pops puts down his tools.
POPS: So, today's the big day. Speed nods. Pops puts down his tools.
SPEED: It could be for you too.
POPS: Could be, could be. But, regardless, this is really all about you. It' your decision and I want you to know, no matter what you decide, I'm behind you.
SPEED: Thanks, Pops. The room begins to shake.
POPS: I think your ride's here.
LIKE: Speed stares out the window, chewing on his decision a dog worrying a bone.
IS: Gennie greets Speed as he debarks from the plane. He carrying his brown sack.
GENNIE: Speed, so nice to see you again. Her,eyes and the softness of her touch elevate flirting to something that is equal parts art and science.
REMMINGTON: Gennie leaves speed, returning to the elevator, as Remmington crosses to him. He hugs him
SPEED: No. I'm okay.
REMMINGTON: So, I can see you have given some serious thought to this thing.
SPEED: I have, yes sir.
REMMINGTON: Good. That means that you understand that we are talking about not just your future, but your family's future.
SPEED: .my family means a lot to me.
REMMINGTON: I know. I can tell. That's why this is so important. Because you can help them. All you have to say is yes. That is all I need to hear and I can make so many things happen for you, and your family. Are you ready for that? Are you ready to say yes, Speed?
SPRITTLE: He looks back at their mess.
CLEANING MAN: Holy cooly: He grabs for his radio.
SPEED: This isn't an easy decision for me, Mr. Remmington. For my family, racing is everything. We eat, drink, think and breathe racing. There is nothing more perfect than a picnic at Thunderhead. I mean, I was taught to drive before I could walk. But when my brother died, all that went away. I can't tell you how painful that was. It nearly killed all of us. Especially Pops. He didn't set foot in his shop for over a year. As the memory comes to life, we see the images in flashback.
REMMINGTON: You poor, naive, chump. He chuckles again.
REMMINGTON: Look. There is the true spirit of the golden age of racing. Benjamin Braddack, Diamond Dave Tweksbury, Reginald White, Oliver Potter, and George Wheeler. The five most powerful men in the world at the turn of the last century. As he talks we flash back to jittery old footage and photographs of the golden era.
REMMINGTON: Do you understand? Burns knew he was going to win. It was already decided. A week before the Prix, Goldman and Sirrus met with several other major players at the Carlyle Hotel. They met there as they had for years, just as their fathers had met, and as their sons and heirs will still meet. They met to negotiate the finish order of the Grand Prix. No race is more important and no race is more controlled. That year Goldman was supposed to win, but he knew if he sold his win to Sirrus, whatever that win might be worth, was nothing compared to what could be He turns back to the twisted piece of crash metal.
REMMINGTON: What's this? He looks and sees the shoes and suit.
SPEED: If that's your idea of racing, you can keep it.
REMMINGTON: Listen to me and listen good kid, because I'm going to give you one more history lesson. You're going to go to Fuji In quick, collage cuts we see
REMMINGTON: But you won't win. You won't More collage cuts
FUJI ANNOUNCER: Speed Racer's making his move, gunning for the lead
GRAY GHOST: We got ourselves a real race here! The two cars start dancing around each other; like two boxers sizing each other up.
FUJI ANNOUNCER: The Gray Ghost unloads a round- house, Speed counters, smashing, banging, bumping-
GRAY GHOST: Here I come, kid! Watch out. Here I am! NopeI'm over here! Wham! Wham! Speed tries to counter punch and the Ghost slips under.
REMMINGTON DRIVER: I guarantee you right now, you won't even finish the race.
SPARKY: Speed, get out of there!
SPEED: I can't! I can't move! The two cars head toward the final jump, locked in some strange embrace They lunge awkwardly, crashing on top of one another as Inside Speed's car, his face plate seals and the kwiksave- foam explodes, swallowing him, as the car tumbles Disintegrating into a cloud of smoke and glittering EXT. GRANDSTANDS The Racer family is frozen. Their faces awash with fear and disappointment while
REMMINGTON: Soon after that there will be litigation against some of your father's designs.
DOUR FACE: Are you Pops Racer of Racer Motors-
POPS: Yeah, but I'm still on vacation-
DOUR FACE: You are hereby served a summons.
POPS: DOUR FACE You are being sued for IP infringement by Janus Automakers.
DOUR FACE: You are being sued for IP infringement by Janus Automakers.
SPEED: That's ridiculous!
DOUR FACE: That's for a jury to decide.
REMMINGTON: The legitimacy of the lawsuits won't matter. They will be enough to discredit his company. Whatever contracts he has, he'll lose. Within a year he will be filing for bankruptcy. After that, you and the rest of your pathetic family will be history. The threat hangs in the air like a loaded gun between Pops was right. You are the devil. The elevator suddenly opens with the security goon carrying Sprittle and Chim-chim by the scruff of their SECURITY GOON Mr. Remmington I caught these two snooping in a restricted area.
SPEED: Pops was right. You are the devil. The elevator suddenly opens with the security goon carrying Sprittle and Chim-chim by the scruff of their SECURITY GOON Mr. Remmington I caught these two snooping in a restricted area.
SPRITTLE: SECURITY GOON Mr. Remmington I caught these two snooping in a restricted area.
SPEED: SECURITY GOON Mr. Remmington I caught these two snooping in a restricted area.
SECURITY GOON: Mr. Remmington I caught these two snooping in a restricted area.
REMMINGTON DRIVER: Get this Racer trash out of my I'll see you at Fuji. Speed turns and heads for the elevator.
SPEED: I'll see you at Fuji. Speed turns and heads for the elevator.
REMMINGTON DRIVER: Yes and then you'll realize that you just made the biggest mistake of your life!
SPARKY: ". .controversy surrounds Racer Motors now embroiled in IP litigation and while evidence remains inconclusive whether or not Speed used an illegal device, the Fuji Helexicon seems destined to become another mark of shame added to the notorious Racer family legacy, a legacy that has forever tainted the integrity of this beloved sport."
MOM: Sparky. That's enough.
SPARKY: Sorry ma'am.
SPRITTLE: I'm going to send that guy some Chim-chim cookies. Chim-chim guffaws.
POPS: You'll do no such thing.
SPRITTLE: We gotta do something, Pops. Speed steps into the doorway.
SPEED: This is exactly what he said would happen if I didn't drive for him.
SPARKY: You mean Remmington?
SPEED: He said it'd get worse and worse and by the end of the year you'd be filing for bankruptcy, Pops.
SPRITTLE: Okay, he's definitely gettin' some monkey cookies.
MOM: CONTINUED: ( 2 He was just trying to scare you, son. They tried the same thing with Rex. If it's a fight they want, it's a fight they'll get.
POPS: He was just trying to scare you, son. They tried the same thing with Rex. If it's a fight they want, it's a fight they'll get.
SPEED: How? What can we do? How can we fight this? He tosses the newspaper.
POPS: The truth will come out.
SPEED: The truth? Don't be naive, Pops. He leaves.
MOM: Speed? Are you okay?
SPEED: .I don't know. She comes in and sits beside him, putting her arm around It'll be okay. We'll get through I don't know, mom. I might have really messed things up.
MOM: It'll be okay. We'll get through I don't know, mom. I might have really messed things up.
SPEED: I don't know, mom. I might have really messed things up.
MOM: By not joining Remmington.
SPEED: By not joining Remmington.
MOM: Don't be silly. You'd have never been happy driving for that terrible man.
SPEED: But maybe racing isn't about being happy. Maybe Remmington's right and it's all about business and anyone who doesn't understand that is just a chump.
MOM: Now you listen to me, young man. What you do behind the wheel of a racecar has nothing to do with business. Before you could even talk, you were making noises that sounded like a car engine. We used to tell people you were speaking car-ese. We used to try to take you to the park but you never wanted to get out of the .I loved that old wagon.
SPEED: .I loved that old wagon.
MOM: And do you remember the time Rex took you out to Thunderhead and let you drive Speed smiles.
SPEED: And I turned it over.
MOM: My heart still pounds just thinking about it.
SPEED: Rex told me the only reason we survived was because I was wearing red socks.
MOM: I thought your father was going to have a stroke when you walked in the door with that crazy smile.
MOM: I don't think I ever saw you as happy as you were telling anybody who asked, how you lost your two front teeth in your first crash.
MOM: Speed, when I watch you do some of the things you do, I feel like I'm watching someone paint or play music. When I go to the races, I go to watch you make art and it's beautiful and inspiring and everything that art should be, even though there are times when I have to close my eyes. But then there are other times, when you just take my breath away and it's at those moments, when I feel your father's chest swell and I know he's smiling, trying to pretend he doesn't have tears in his eyes, I just go to pieces.
SPEED: Because I am so impossibly proud to be your mother. And even though your father doesn't say it, he is too. She puts her arms around him.
MOM: Because I am so impossibly proud to be your mother. And even though your father doesn't say it, he is too. She puts her arms around him.
SPRITTLE: RACER HEX! THE HARBINGER OF BOOM! RUN FOR YOUR LIVES! Popsstorms into the room.
POPS: What are you two squawking about? They dive behind the couch but peek out as Pops heads for the door.
SPRITTLE: Pops, whatever you do, don't open the door!
RACER X: This is a bad idea.
INSPECTOR DETECTOR: If it was any other driver, you'd be here. Popsopens the door and Racer X sets his jaw.
POPS: Inspector Detector?
INSPECTOR DETECTOR: Good morning, Mr.. Racer. I know it's been a long time
POPS: Ten years.
INSPECTOR DETECTOR: Yes. I'm sorry for this intrusion, but I was hoping to have a word with you and Speed. Pops eyes the masked racer.
INSPECTOR DETECTOR: We've been after Remmington for years for dozens of capital corporate crimes including WRL fixing but we haven't had the evidence we need to convict him. Until now. Sprittle and Chim-chim peek up from behind the couch as Mom offers the masked racer a cup of coffee.
MOM: Here you are, Mr. X. Sprittle points at Racer X.
SPRITTLE: What's he doing here?
INSPECTOR DETECTOR: Racer X works closely with our WRL corporate crimes division, helping us recruit drivers like you, Speed. Most of the media, which you are now seeing is controlled by the Major Sponsors and they have done their best to paint him as a menace to the sport. The truth is he's our most valuable weapon against these villains.
SPEEED: Why does he always wear that mask?
INSPECTOR DETECTOR: If any of, you actually knew his identity, you would become targets for his enemies which include some of the most vicious Fixers in the Gulp. They both sink back down behind the couch.
SPEED: What do you want with me?
INSPECTOR DETECTOR: You're familiar with the driver Katsu Okamoto?
SPEED: Of course.
INSPECTOR DETECTOR: For years he has been contracted by a Fixer named Cruncher Block who we know works for Remmington. Recently, Katsu has been forced to lose races that have led to a droop in the stock price of Okamoto Engineering. We believe this is a part of a corporate strategy to allow Mushi motors to buy control of Okamoto. Katsu doesn't want this to happen and he began resisting, thinking.that he could do it on his own. After Fuji, he realized he needed help.
POPS: ,Why help him?
INSPECTOR DETECTOR: Because he has a file with enough information to connect Block to Remmington which could put both of them behind bars for the rest of their lives. The problem is, he won't give us the file unless we help him stop the take over of his family's company.
SPEED: CONTINUED: ( 2 ) INSPECTOR DETECTOR There is an up-coming race that Katsu believes if he can win, it will catapult Okamoto Engineering back into the spotlight and double the cost of the buy out which should kill it.
INSPECTOR DETECTOR: There is an up-coming race that Katsu believes if he can win, it will catapult Okamoto Engineering back into the spotlight and double the cost of the buy out which should kill it.
SPEED: But there aren't any more races left except for the Grand Prix and we both failed to qualify. Inspector takes a big breath.
INSPECTOR DETECTOR: There aren't any track races. This is a cross-country rally.
SPARKY: You mean The Crucible?
POPS: INSPECTOR DETECTOR I know it seems cruel of me to ask, but Katsu made it clear that he had to have Speed an X on his team or there would be no deal.
INSPECTOR DETECTOR: I know it seems cruel of me to ask, but Katsu made it clear that he had to have Speed an X on his team or there would be no deal.
POPS: Absolutely out of the question.
INSPECTOR DETECTOR: You'll have the support of the entire C.I.B
POPS: No! Rally racing is a back alley sport full of jackals, head- hunters and thugs! I'm sorry, Inspector but I lost one son to that death-trap. I won't lose INSPECTOR DETECTOR I understand. If you change your
INSPECTOR DETECTOR: I understand. If you change your
MIND: He starts to take out his card.
POPS: Keep your card, Chief Inspector.
SPEED: And the way he was looking at me, I don't know.I just gotta do But Pops will never let you go.
TRIXIE: But Pops will never let you go.
SPEED: He won't if I ask him.
TRIXIE: Speed Racer what are you thinking?
SPEED: You weren't in Remmington's office, Trix. You don't know what it was like. It felt as though he had his hand inside my chest and he was trying to crush everything in my life that mattered to me.
TRIXIE: I hate him. I'm picturing his heart clogging with cholesterol right now.
SPEED: No joke, Trix. If you could have been in that room, you'd want to do anything you could to take this guy down. She looks straight into his eyes and he doesn't have to say anything else.
TRIXIE: All right. Let's do it. You're going to need an alibi. We'll say we're going skiing.
SPEED: What? No way!
TRIXIE: You're going to need my help. Casa Cristo is a rally. I can spot from a 'copter.
SPEED: Trixie, this isn't a game. These people play rough.
TRIXIE: I know. That's why I'm coming with you. And if you even try to argue with me, I'll tell Pops right now and he won't let you out of his You would, wouldn't you? He looks into her eyes and knows the answer.
SPEED: You would, wouldn't you? He looks into her eyes and knows the answer.
REMMINGTON: As I'm sure you're aware, the Okamoto stock fell another four points yesterday. In the next few days it will hit bottom and they will have to sell. The car roars through its elliptical path like a circling electron binding the two tycoons together.
MUSHI: This could be a most profitable year for Remmington. Remmington can't hide the glow.
REMMINGTON: Mushi won't do too badly either. Mushi nods. Cannonball circles, everything in apparent harmony until Gennie leans in and whispers.
REMMINGTON: You're not going to like it.
GENNIE: You're not going to like it.
ANNOUNCER: We're just minutes away from the start of the 82nd annual Casa Cristo Classic, the grand dame of cross-country, the second oldest rally race in the world, spanning two continents, three climate changes and five thousand kilometers of the most winding and treacherous roads ever raced. Heturns to his colleague.
JOHNNY: Always great to be here. Such a beautiful city.
ANNOUNCER: One of the most romantic cities in the world.
BELLMAN: Is there anything else I can do for you, sir?
CRUNCHER: Yeah .I wanna send someone a INT. CASA CRISTO BLIMP Safety has been the primary concern for Casa Cristo officials, especially the last few years.
ANNOUNCER: Safety has been the primary concern for Casa Cristo officials, especially the last few years.
JOHNNY: That's right Bob. There were a number of fatalities several years ago. It really had a bad reputation for a while.
ANNOUNCER: Fans started calling it "The Most of the T-180 drivers wouldn't come near it.
JOHNNY: Most of the T-180 drivers wouldn't come near it.
ANNOUNCER: But you look today, we've got some major names like Millie "the mouse" Manno, Snake Oiler and Katsu Okamoto as well as the young rising star Speed Racer. Not to mention, the shadow that seems to hang over every major race these days, the masked racer that some fans call the Harbinger of Boom. What's your take on Racer X?
JOHNNY: Obviously he is an extremely talented and disciplined driver.
ANNOUNCER: But is he a head hunter?
JOHNNY: I think he drives like he'is not always interested in winning.
ANNOUNCER: Nuff' said.
JOHNNY: But remember Colton, these are standard road cars, not T-180s. I know a lot of T-180 drivers who I raced against who expected to win but found out racing a few laps on a track is a totally different animal than a cross-country rally.
ANNOUNCER: The marathon as opposed to the Exactly. This isn't just about going fast. It's about endurance. More than anything, winning Casa Cristo is a test of will.
JOHNNY: Exactly. This isn't just about going fast. It's about endurance. More than anything, winning Casa Cristo is a test of will.
INSPECTOR DETECTOR: Speed, I want you to understand how much the C.I.B. appreciates your help on this.
SPEED: I'm not doing this to help C.I.B. I don't know anything about corporate crimes and honestly, if I did, it wouldn't really matter.
ANNOUNCER: The reason.T-180 drivers have always come to Casa Cristo is because the winner is automatically offered an invitation to the Grand Prix next week. A hold over from the days when rally racing was far more popular then track racing.
SECURITY GUARD: He says it's for Horuko, from an Katsu looks at the ribboned box as the guard runs his metal detector over it.
HORUKO: You see how we have to live? He ignores her, turning away as she starts to open it. She screams. Inside the goldfish bowl the piranha shreds a piece of meat that could be a finger, staining-the water red.
JOHNNY: To compete in this race, you really have to have a killer instinct. Any sign of weakness or timidness is like blood in the water and you'll see how fast this race turns into a feeding frenzy.
RACER X: We're going to need some insurance for this race. Minx clicks away at a keyboard while a digital Mach 5 rotates on a screen.
SPEED: Nice to meet ya. She purrs in response. Racer X nods and she uses the computer to illustrate her Their cars will probably be equipped with secret weapons so we have modified your car to try to counter their attacks. The "A" button will operate your normal The Mach 5 flips over on the screen highlighting the newly installed jump-jacks.
MINX: Their cars will probably be equipped with secret weapons so we have modified your car to try to counter their attacks. The "A" button will operate your normal The Mach 5 flips over on the screen highlighting the newly installed jump-jacks.
ANNOUNCER: Every race fan has heard the rumors of spearhooks, tire shanks and battery boosters.
JOHNNY: The league has done a tremendous job to clean rally racing up. While it's true there have been a few bad apples, on the'whole most teams stay within league rules. He winks into the camera.
POPS: Faster than a blink Sprittle grabs the remote and changes the channel to "Unser Charly," a German sitcom starring a POPS ( CONT'D ) What are you doing?
SPRITTLE: Just watching a little TV, Pops. Pops looks at the TV suspiciously, then back at his son.
POPS: It's in German!
SPRITTLE: Not the monkey parts. chim-chim smiles.
POPS: Oh no you don't. You are not watching that race. Out you go. Outside. Get some exercise. You're too pale.
ANNOUNCER: The moment the Queen of Casa Cristo sees the sun, she'll signal the start of the race.
HORUKO: This is wrong.what you are trying to do.
KATSU: I have no choice. Their price is an insult to four generations of our family.
HORUKO: And if you die? Will then the price be high enough?
SPEED: I understand it now, Trix. I know why he left us. She looks at him.
SNAKE: This is supposed to be my race! I'm supposed to win! I got the green light! They. promised I'd get to go to the Grand Prix! For eight years I've played by the rules! This is supposed to be my Enough! I can't stand the Like a baby needing its diaper Snake works his jaw looking for the right comeback.
CRUNCHER: Enough! I can't stand the Like a baby needing its diaper Snake works his jaw looking for the right comeback.
VINNY: Like a baby needing its diaper Snake works his jaw looking for the right comeback.
CRUNCHER: It's simple. We have a team of wild cards. The problem is these wild cards are better drivers than Like hell they are!
SNAKE: Like hell they are!
CRUNCHER: Prove it. Take out Katsu. The other two will quit.
SNAKE: You just watch me. Come on! He and his boys storm out, slamming the door behind them.
TRIXIE: Katsu, HydroCell's coming up on• your left. The HydroCell cars jostle their way towards Katsu, Speed and Racer X.
RACER X: I got him.
KATSU: It is such an extraordinary honor to have such talent on my team.
RACER X: Let's skip the niceties and cut to the chase. Katsuarches an eyebrow.
KATSU: You won't regret your decision.
RACER X: We'll see. Until then you have my word that I will do everything.I can to make sure you checker at Katsu smiles.
KNOCKING: Racer X smashes into one of the HydroCell team, him into a series of billboards. Katsu again smiles.
KATSU: Arrigato, X. Arrigato.
SPEED: If they're so desperate, why not just use some kind of sniper? There's a million places someone could hide if they were really trying to kill you.
RACER X: Any obvious crime would allow the Chief Inspector to shut the race down. That kind of scrutiny would only hurt the business. They'll do as much as they can to make it appear legit. Speed nods.
ANNOUNCER: They're out of the city and heading into the Zunubian Desert.
TRIXIE: Speed, jump!
RACER X: He's not alone.
RACER X: This surprises me.
SPEED: RACER X Tyrus is a good man. I wouldn't expect him to turn head-hunter. They aren't pulling any punches.
RACER X: Tyrus is a good man. I wouldn't expect him to turn head-hunter. They aren't pulling any punches.
ANNOUNCER: Things have started heating up, as the cars head out across the desert flats.
RACER X: Lead him
SPEED: Here ya go! Speed leads an attack straight into Racer X's counter.
RACER X: Wing left.
SPEED: Flying in!
TRIXIE: Wham! Billy slams up against him Throwing a lever, a grappler locks on to the Mach 5.
SPEED: He's got me! I'm locked up! Another lever is pumped like a tire pump and a sheaved blade begins stabbing at Speed's tires. Racer X watches unable to leave Katsu unprotected. Speed hits the D button and the zircon saw blades start gliding through the grappler.
RACER X: Get out of there! -
SPEED: I'm trying! The knife slashes the tire which explodes just as the grappler is cut Speed flips away free, hitting the "C" button causing a new tire to inflate while he's upside down Landing on a new tire, without missing a beat. Tyrus rushes into the opening, but this time it's Katsue who works a hidden lever and A Katana-like blade flashes, a samurai slash across the front tire Bowing it out, flipping the entire car, which tumbles back straight at Speed, forcing him to try a split-jack
JUMP: Firing only the rear jump-jacks, launching the back end of the car while
JOHNNY: Oh my god! Did I just see that!?
ANNOUNCER: A rear single set jump into a forward flip!
JOHNNY: I know he blew up at Fugi, but this kid is flat out magic!
POPS: I've got to go into town for some parts. I'll be back for lunch.
SPRITTLE: Sure thing Pops. Pops looks at them, shakes his head and walks off.
HIM: Sprittle slowly lowers his tanning goggles to watch SPRITTLE ( CONT'D ) Let's go! They drop their mirrors and bolt for the house.
POPS: Honey, I can't find my wallet Pops enters the room expecting to find Mom but catches them red-handed.
SPRITTLE: Wait! Pops, before you get mad at Sprittle points at the tv eyes wide.
POPS: I'm not falling for that
SPRITTLE: It's Speed!
POPS: Speed's skiing.
SPRITTLE: Then who's driving the Mach 5? Pops turns and indeed, there's the Mach 5 barrelling across the red baked earth of Zunubia.
POPS: Oh no.
ANNOUNCER: We're nearing the end of the first leg of the Casa Cristo as Snake Oiler, lead driver for the HydroCell team, roars through the streets of Cortega, heading for the finish.
ANNOUNCER: The HydroCell team jumped on the lead early and would not give it They made excellent time. Okamoto is still a couple of minutes behind them.
JOHNNY: They made excellent time. Okamoto is still a couple of minutes behind them.
ANNOUNCER: They have their work cut out for them tomorrow.
KATSU: If we drive tomorrow like we drove today we will lose! He points at the masked racer.
SPEED: Relax. Snake's weak on turns. We'll catch him in the mountains.
KATSU: We might if you stop showing off.
SPEED: Hey, all I was doing was saving your ass. Katsu raises a fist, but Racer X catches it.
RACER X: Don't fall apart yet. There's still a lot of race to run. Katsu jerks free of Racer X and storms towards the door immediately enveloped by his security team. Speed looks at Racer X as though he can suddenly see through the mask.
SPEED: Racer X He stops.
RACER X: If you say so. He turns away leaving Speed alone.
CHICKEN'S: Remmington wrings the phone as if it were a Ineptitude? Is this what I pay you for?
REMMINGTON: Ineptitude? Is this what I pay you for?
CRUNCHER: They ain't checkered yet.
REMMINGTON: If. they do, I assure you it will be a very costly mistake for He hangs up.
ASSISTANT: Mr. Remmington, you have Mr. Mushi on line two. Remmington was dreading this call. He hits the button.
REMMINGTON: Mr. Mushi
MUSHI: So, is this what guarantee means to you, Mr. Remmington? Perhaps your dictionary has a different I understand there is a problem, but I assure you there is no need to panic.
REMMINGTON: I understand there is a problem, but I assure you there is no need to panic.
MUSHI: I am not calling to panic. I am calling to inform you that we will be addressing the problem ourselves, as your assurances and guarantees leaves much to be He hangs up leaving Remmington to stew in his juice.
SPEED: It was very weird, Trix. I knew every move he was going to make and he knew mine. It was so familiar. Maybe I'm crazy but Racer X first showed up two years after Rex's death.
TRIXIE: But Speed, Rex was cremated.
SPEED: A body was cremated. Remember it had already been badly burned in the crash. Even if it was Rex, no one could have recognized him.
TRIXIE: So you think he faked the crash with a different body in the driver's seat?
SPEED: Somehow the kwik-save was disconnected. Inspector Detector suspected foul play but nothing could be proved.
TRIXIE: okay, let's say it's all true. Why would we do it?
SPEED: I don't know. Maybe the same reason I'm here. Ding dong. Speed goes to the door.
SPEED: INT. RACER HOTEL ROOM Pops rages while Sprittle and Chim-chim pick through their dinner.
POPS: Is this the kind of driver I have? Someone who disobeys? Someone who lies to me? Is this the kind of son I have raised? And you, Trixie, you know what this race did to this family. Did either of you stop to think about us? Huh? Speed, did you think about your mother? Or your brother?
SPEED: That's all I've been thinking about, Pops. You, Mom, Sprittle, Chim-chim shouts.
POPS: This is not the place or the race to do anything about that.
SPEED: Why not?
POPS: Because it won't do any good?
SPEED: You don't know that.
POPS: You think you can drive a car and change the world?! It doesn't work like that!
SPEED: Maybe not. But it's the only thing I know how to do and I gotta do something.
POPS: That's unacceptable! This is over. Pack your things. We're going home. Speed has never directly disobeyed his father.
SPEED: I can't. I'm sorry, Pops.
POPS: I'm staying.
SPEED: I'm staying.
TRIXIE: So am
POPS: No you're not! You're coming home, right now!
SPEED: I'm not a child, Pops. You can't tell me how to live my life. If you want to fire me as your driver, then fine, do it. But it won't change the fact that I am going to.finish this race. Pops looks ready to have an aneurism.
POPS: God, you sound like Rex. Do you want to die like him too? Will that make you happy?
SPEED: Don't take it out on me because you feel guilty for what happened to Rex.
MOM: okay, you two. That's enough. Pops, if they're staying, then we're staying.
SPRITTLE: All right, room service!
MOM: I suggest we try to do everything we can to make sure we go home toe with Pops fumes working his jaw, standing toe to Where's the Mach-5?
POPS: Where's the Mach-5?
SPEED: Logged with security.
POPS: You added something to it?
SPEED: Some defensive modifications.
POPS: The whole thing's out of balance, isn't it?
SPEED: It pulls left, rides a little Pops and Sparky leave to do their work. Speed feels terrible. He looks at his Mom.
POPS: Pops and Sparky leave to do their work. Speed feels terrible. He looks at his Mom.
SPEED: I'm sorry, Mom.
MOM: Your father loves you Speed. He's just afraid that
SPEED: I know. It's gonna be okay.
MOM: You wouldn't lie to your mother would you?
SPEED: Never again. She hugs him..
SPARKY: I got him! I got hiiiyow The ninja throws Sparky across the room and tries to bolt but Speed is up and throwing a quick combo. The ninja stumbles, but a manages a spin-kick that knocks Speed back as Pops grabs the ninja from behind.
POPS: You attack my family?1 You try to hurt my son?! Pops twists the squirming ninja through a series of wrestling moves Finishing the ninja in a spinning over head helicopter
TRIXIE: Oh my god? Was that a ninja? Pops cracks his knuckles.
POPS: More like a non-ja. Terrible what passes for a ninja these days. s still She looks out the window and smiles; this family' got it.
TRIXIE: Cool beans. There is a hurried knock at the door.
POPS: I'll get it. It is Horuko, surrounded by security.
HORUKO: Oh, I am sorry. I was looking for Speed Racer. Speed moves to the door.
SPEED: Horuko? Are you all right?
HORUKO: No. Something terrible has INT. HOTEL SUITE Katsu can barely sit up, his arm draped over Horuko, his head lolling from side to side. The family is gathered around them and Racer X, who is again wearing the mask. Racer X tastes the needle of the blow dart.
RACER X: Narcolyte Benzamine. A highly effective and debilitating drug.
KATSU: I'll be.fine.by morning.
RACER X: No you won't. You can't drive a car. You can barely stand up. Katsu leaps to his feet.
KATSU: You do not tell me what I can do He suddenly collapses to the floor.
HORUKO: She tries to help him, but he is unconscious.
KATSUL: She tries to help him, but he is unconscious.
SPEED: What are we going to do? They all look to each other for an answer, but no one seems to have one.
MUSHI: .I have been assured that our problem has been solved.
REMMINGTON: Perhaps your definition of "solved" is different from mine.
ANNOUNCER: The second leg of the Casa Cristo is under way. And the stage is set for what might be one of the most ferocious rallies we've seen in years.
SPEED: Watch your line! Okamoto adjusts.
SPARKY: Packs leaning left, look for a slingshot on the right!
RACER X: Speed, you're too tight! The cars bounce and Speed takes a hit, spinning for moment before he regains control. Speed mumbles to himself.
SPEED: This is completely
POPS: Absolutely crazy.
GUARD: The chopper is ready ma'am. Horuko is escorted out, surrounded by her security EXT. HOTEL Cruncher's thug watches through binoculars as Horuko exits the hotel, then reports through his Bluetooth.
THUG: She's leavin' da hotel now.
SPARKY: Wicked sidewinder coming up. Watch the inside-out. Could get EXT. HELIPAD Horuko is escorted to her waiting helicopter.
THUG: Yeah, boss. Signal's loud and On the dash is a GPS map with a blinking signal.
INSPECTOR DETECTOR: They're airborne? You're sure? Good. Double the guard for her arrival in Bartimaeus. I gave my word nothing would happen to his sister and I mean to keep it. The Inspector gets another call.
SPEED: Left! Drift tight! Tight! Okamoto looks like he's about to go over the edge.
CRUNCHER: Don't do it! They raise their hands.
GOTCHA: But suddenly, something is wrong, his eyes going wide as he realizes Horuko is not Horuko. Horuko is Katsu.
TRIXIE: That's better. Couldn't see She gains control and eases the car into the slot.
SPARKY: That's it. Nice line, Trix.
SPARKY: Top of the hill's coming. Snake's got at least a quarter mile'on ya.
TRIXIE: Well, let's go get him.
SPEED: If you'd been a little more careful, he wouldn't be ahead of I told you I couldn't see outta this dang helmet. It's too big.
TRIXIE: I told you I couldn't see outta this dang helmet. It's too big.
SPEED: I can't believe you talked us into this ridiculous idea.
TRIXIE: What's ridiculous about it? You're the one always telling me I'm a better driver than most of the WRL.
SPEED: Now's not the time to prove it!
TRIXIE: Why not?
SPEED: It's too dangerous!
TRIXIE: Too dangerous for me but not for RACER X Children, focus! If we're going to have a chance we're going to have to pass Snake before the I'm ready. Let's roll. She floors it, pulling out, leaving Speed shaking his head and trying to keep up. They smear through a hairpin turn and as they close on the nearest cars it is immediately apparent that they are no longer driving protectively or defensively They are attacking. Racer X leaps at the bumper of one car, corner-checking him into the rail while Trixie hits like a cue ball on the break, scattering several cars Leaving Speed little to clean up.
RACER X: Children, focus! If we're going to have a chance we're going to have to pass Snake before the I'm ready. Let's roll. She floors it, pulling out, leaving Speed shaking his head and trying to keep up. They smear through a hairpin turn and as they close on the nearest cars it is immediately apparent that they are no longer driving protectively or defensively They are attacking. Racer X leaps at the bumper of one car, corner-checking him into the rail while Trixie hits like a cue ball on the break, scattering several cars Leaving Speed little to clean up.
TRIXIE: I'm ready. Let's roll. She floors it, pulling out, leaving Speed shaking his head and trying to keep up. They smear through a hairpin turn and as they close on the nearest cars it is immediately apparent that they are no longer driving protectively or defensively They are attacking. Racer X leaps at the bumper of one car, corner-checking him into the rail while Trixie hits like a cue ball on the break, scattering several cars Leaving Speed little to clean up.
SPARKY: Wahoo! Go get 'em, girl!
SNAKE: Here they come! Pick it up!
C.C. ANNOUNCER: Here comes the Okamoto team, making their move.
SNAKE: Watch it! What're you doin'?! The mountains undulate, the cars dip and rise caught in the current of this concrete river Flowing one way then another, the cars sawing across the belly of one bend, drifting into the curve of another
UNTIL: The Hydrocell emerges over the crest of a hill with the Okamoto team tight to their bumpers.
RACER X: Take 'em.
SPEED: With pleasure. Speed slingshots from the back position, hurling alongside the HydroCell team until Snake blocks him, setting up an attack by one of his team but this just allows Racer X a hole to punch through. The cars continue to slug it out still weaving up the mountain road, climbing it seems to helicopter or blimp INT. BLIMP Now the gloves are off and they are pounding one another, bumper to bumper, rail to rail!
ANNOUNCER: Now the gloves are off and they are pounding one another, bumper to bumper, rail to rail!
SPRITTLE: Oh yeah! Pops can't help a flash of delight.
POPS: .that's my boy.
C.C. ANNOUNCER: The Okamoto team roars into the lead behind some very aggressive driving by Speed Racer.
JOHNNY: You kiddin' me? He just tore Snake a new tailpipe!
SPEED: Trix? You all right? She's obviously shaken up.
TRIXIE: Yeah, sure. 104 and ready for Speed shakes his head, wanting this to be over.
RACER X: Then let's move it. We got some time to eat up.
CRUNCHER: Haven't ya heard? Cheaters never SECURITY GUARD Sir, we've got the lead! They're heading for the rendezvous, now! Katsu looks back at Cruncher and smiles.
SECURITY GUARD: Sir, we've got the lead! They're heading for the rendezvous, now! Katsu looks back at Cruncher and smiles.
KATSU: INT. THUGMOBILE No answer. The thug hangs up.
THUG: Somethin' ain't right.
HORUKO: You're sure, no cameras here?
POPS: Checked it this morning. Quite a few dead spots in these mountains.
SPEED: I told you She turns ready to fight, if that's what he wants.
TRIXIE: You're not so bad yourself. Sparky and Pops go to work, changing fuel cells and starting to pound out some of the serious dents. Racer X sees Cruncher guarded by the security team.
RACER X: What's he doing here?
KATSU: Stowaway. Weren't sure what to do with him.
RACER X: Do what he'd do; break his legs and let him walk back. Horuko bows to Trixie.
HORUKO: Thank you so much.
TRIXIE: It was a blast.
SPARKY: Cells reloaded!
SPEED: Let's go! They start to turn until machine gun fires objects.
THUG: Nobody move! The thugs emerge from the surrounding wood.
POPS: What is this?!
UP: He strides towards the nearest goon but bullets spit
IN: the earth and snow at his feet causing him to freeze This is called a change of plan. Now freed, one of the thugs tosses him a gun.
CRUNCHER: This is called a change of plan. Now freed, one of the thugs tosses him a gun.
THUG: Yeah, that's right. We're changing your plan that changed our plan to change your plan. - .right boss? Cruncher decides to ignore that.
CRUNCHER: The new plan what was it, again? Break your legs, make you.walk back? I like that. He stands smiling in front of Racer X.
C.C. ANNOUNCER: We are still waiting for the Okamoto team to come out of the Those roads can really ice up. Very dangerous.
JOHNNY: Those roads can really ice up. Very dangerous.
CRUNCHER: Monkey cookie! He turns just as Whap! A monkey cookie in the kisser.
OWL: Monkey cookie! He turns just as Whap! A monkey cookie in the kisser.
SPRITTLE: Monkey cookie! He turns just as Whap! A monkey cookie in the kisser.
POPS: Get that monkey! The goons are confused, distracted, and before they can control it, the fight is on Racer X throws the thug holding him Speed and Trixie dish out equal measures of chop-socky and good of American slug-fu as Pops grapples and wrestles his goon into a head-lock. Racer X hammers Cruncher to the ground where he sees his gun, scrambling for it but just as he reaches for it Katsu steps on his hand. It's a short quick turn around and
CRUNCHER: Get that monkey! The goons are confused, distracted, and before they can control it, the fight is on Racer X throws the thug holding him Speed and Trixie dish out equal measures of chop-socky and good of American slug-fu as Pops grapples and wrestles his goon into a head-lock. Racer X hammers Cruncher to the ground where he sees his gun, scrambling for it but just as he reaches for it Katsu steps on his hand. It's a short quick turn around and
RACER X: Looks like another change of plan.
WHILE: The security guards herd up Cruncher and the thugs Pops turns his attention to
POPS: Sprittlel Get over here!
SPRITTLE: He and Chim-chim run behind Speed.
SPEED: Sprittle this isn't a game. You could've been killed in there.
SPRITTLE: I.know it was bad! I know we shouldn't have done it. But Chim- chim was really really scared.
SPEED: Okay, I was a little scared too.
SPRITTLE: Okay, I was a little scared too.
TRIXIE: Scared of what? Sprittle clings to his big brother.
SPRITTLE: I didn't want what happened to Rex to happen to you. Racer X and Pops feel a hidden wound open.
POPS: Oh no, you're not getting off that easy. If your mother hasn't had a heart attack already, I'm sure she'll know what to do with you tires and The last of Pops line is lost to the squeal of roar of engines as the HydroCell team flies by.
KATSU: Go! Go! Go! They rush to their cars, Speed leaping into the Mach-5. Engines. growl, tires spin and gravel spits as the three cars shoot back into the race.
TNT. BLIMP: C.C. ANNOUNCER First out of the pass is. the HydroCell team?
C.C. ANNOUNCER: First out of the pass is. the HydroCell team?
JOHNNY: Uh-oh. They better send the emergency trailer
C.C. ANNOUNCER: Wait! Is that Like eagles dropping from the sky, the Okamoto ream soars out of the mouth of the pass.
JOHNNY: Here we go again.
C.C. ANNOUNCER: Whatever happened in that pass has left Okamoto back where they started but now only one obstacle stands between Snake oiler and
VICTORY: The Maltese Ice Caves.
JOHNNY: The Maltese Ice Caves.
TNT. HELICOPTER: Trixie notices as Pops begins to bite his lip. She whispers to Sparky.
TRIXIE: This is where Rex. Sparky nods.
KATSU: Speed?! What are you doing?
SPEED: RACER X Are you all right?
RACER X: Are you all right?
SPEED: I'm fine. Ahead, the HydroCell team grows from small silhouettes flashing in and out of sight,. closer and closer, larger and larger until once more the three chase cars lock onto their rear INT. RACER X'S CAR RACER X The next cave's a rattler.
RACER X: The next cave's a rattler.
KATSU: What is that?
SPEED: Double S.
RACER X: We'll make our move in there.
RACER X: The cars split apart, Racer X leading the charge as Sparks flash as with the cross of swords, metal striking metal and The ice-crusted walls sparkle with star-bursts of
VIOLENCE: The cacophony ringing through the first bending curve. It is obvious that the conditions are much more difficult, a sword fight on a frozen lake Each of the drivers, skidding, wobbling, drifting farther then they anticipated, but The Okamoto team are just too good, eliminating one and then the other HydroCell cars until Speed again has Snake in his sights. This time, though, Snake is ready.
SNAKE: Not this time, punk! He throws the lever and beneath his car A violent spray of freezing gas immediately skim coats the road with a fresh shimmering glaze of ice that- Speed hits going full throttle, immediately spinning wildly out of control. He screams trying to hold on as he spits out the end of the cave Smashing through the rail, separating from the earth Hanging for a moment against the soundlessness of the open sky Before dropping like a stone.
RACER X: INT. BLIMP Oh no!
JOHNNY: Oh no!
C.C. ANNOUNCER: Speed Racer's gone over the edge!
JOHNNY: He did.not! He did not just do C.C. ANNOUNCER Speed Racer is. driving straight up a cliff faceare we getting this?
C.C. ANNOUNCER: Speed Racer is. driving straight up a cliff faceare we getting this?
JOHNNY: This kid is unbelievable!
SPRITTLE: Go, Speed, go!
SPEED: Hi. Remember me? Speed roars up after him and Snake grabs for his lever again but now it's Speed that's ready Jumping over the ice, he body slams Snake, sending him hard into the rail as Speed shoots into the lead.
SNAKE: Not again! Not again! He grabs at an ankle holster, yanking out a gun.
JOHNNY: Oh my god, he's got a gun!
FAMILY: Snakes fires just as Speed hits the cockpit bubble and the bullets smack against it like a sledgehammer into a brick wall.
GUN!: Snakes fires just as Speed hits the cockpit bubble and the bullets smack against it like a sledgehammer into a brick wall.
C.C. ANNOUNCER: Snake oiler completely going out of his mind
JOHNNY: Could have been altitude sickness, it gets crazy up there
C.C. ANNOUNCER: And victory! The checkered flag comes down, hundreds of flashbulbs capturing the moment as Katsu leads Speed and Racer X across the finish line.
REMMINGTON: Get me. Tetsuya Okamoto.
KATSU: We make a good team.
RACER X: We did our part. Make sure you do Racer X stares at Katsu whose face is as expressionless as a mask but it feels as though Racer X can see right through it.
KATSU: Of course.
REMMINGTON: Congratulations Mr. Okamoto. Very impressive race.
OKAMOTO: Yes, thank you. You are very generous, Mr. Remmington.
REPORTER 2: Speed, does this mean you've signed with Okamoto?
SPEED: Uh, no. This was. a mutually beneficial opportunity.
KATSU: Yes, well put.
REPORTER 3: Katsu, does this mean you will be running in the Grand Prix this We'll see. Right now I'm just going to enjoy this victory.
KATSU: We'll see. Right now I'm just going to enjoy this victory.
OKAMOTO: The price is 78 a share.
REMMINGTON: That's outrageous! The price is barely above 50! This is extortion! Blackmail! I'll sue you! Tie up every asset you own up for the next 20 years!
OKAMOTO: As you wish Mr. Remmington. Have a nice day.
REMMINGTON: He grinds his molars until they are smooth.
OKAMOTO: A pleasure doing business with INT. OKAMOTO'S OFFICE sit across Okamoto hangs up the phone. Katsu and Horuko from him. He smiles.
OKAMOTO: You have done very well for us, my Katsu smiles the same smile as his father. The only person not smiling in the room is Horuko.
SPARKY: I don't get it. What just Okamoto played us for chumps. All he wanted was our help to drive up the stock on his family's company. Even if there was a file, he had no intention of turning it over.
SPARKY: You mean that whole race was for INT. MACH 5 Speed screams as loud as he can strangling the steering wheel as he rockets through a series of familiar with EXT. THUNDERHEAD Without the lights or banners or crowds, the race track echoes with the same quiet portance as a cathedral. It is here that Speed has always found himself. But as he sails through neck snapping turns with reckless abandon, it becomes clear that he is chasing something that he has lost. He seems ready to cry for all the frustration and anger, wanting so badly to undo the last few weeks of his life. Suddenly in his rearview mirror there is an answer to his prayer, a miracle His brother.
SPEED: X? Racer X? There is a small movement in the car, a shuddering as though in pain and Speed realizes he may have gone too SPEED ( CONT'D ) Racer X?!! He runs to the car but immediately stops when he realizes the masked man is not in pan; he is laughing. He practically falls out of his car.
RACER X: Jeezus, kid. You can drive. I haven't been thrown like that in What are you doing here?
SPEED: What are you doing here?
RACER X: The inspector told me what happened., I came looking for you.
SPEED: RACER X Thought you'd take it hard and maybe do something stupid.
RACER X: Thought you'd take it hard and maybe do something stupid.
SPEED: Why would you care?
RACER X: Because you're a fighter. And a Why don't you just tell me the Racer X stares at him hard.
SPEED: Why don't you just tell me the Racer X stares at him hard.
RACER X: You mean your brother?
SPEED: Youfirstappeared two years after Rexdied.You drive just like him.Youknew I'd be here because thisis where he always used to takeme.Just tell me the truth. After a long hard moment, Racer X pulls off his He is not Rex. Speed is stunned.
RACER X: No. I'm sorry Speed but your brother is dead. He pulls his mask back on.
SPEED: I'm sorry.
RACER X: Don't be. I'm sure where ever your brother is, he is immensely proud of you.
SPEED: For what? Making the same mistakes he did?
RACER X: For trying to make a difference. From what I've read, that's all he tried to do.
SPEED: And what good did it do? He got killed for nothing. Racing hasn't changed and it never will!
RACER X: It doesn't matter if racing never changes. What matters is if we let racing change us. Everyone of us has to find the reason to do this. You don't climb into a T- 180 to be a driver. You do it because you're driven.
SPEED: I don't know why I'm doing it RACER X That's obvious. At Fuji, you were trying to prove something. At Cristo, you were looking for justice. Neither are the reason you belong behind a steering If you know so much, why don't you tell me why I should keep driving?
RACER X: That's obvious. At Fuji, you were trying to prove something. At Cristo, you were looking for justice. Neither are the reason you belong behind a steering If you know so much, why don't you tell me why I should keep driving?
SPEED: If you know so much, why don't you tell me why I should keep driving?
RACER X: Sorry. That's for you to figure He climbs back into his car.
SPRITTLE: Hey watcha doin?
SPEED: What's it look like?
SPRITTLE: Where ya goin?
SPEED: I don't know. I just gotta get away from here.
SPRITTLE: Because why?
SPEED: Because why?
SPRITTLE: Because why?
SPEED: Because I have to.
SPRITTLE: Can we come with you? Speed is struck by an odd sense of deja vu.
SPEED: Can we come with you?
SPRITTLE: Can we come with you?
SPEED: You'll understand when it's your He shoulders his bag and shoves out the door.
SPRITTLE: You'll understand when it's your He shoulders his bag and shoves out the door.
SPEED: You'll understand when it's your He shoulders his bag and shoves out the door.
POPS: Speed, before you go, I'd like to say a few things. Will you sit with your old man for a minute? Speed chafes a bit but drops his bag.
SPEED: Don't try to stop me.
POPS: I won't. I made a mistake trying to tell you what to do at Cortega. You were right. I was wrong. I won't make that mistake again. Speed sits.
SPEED: The truth was, I couldn't have been more proud of you son. Not because you won, but because you stood up, you weren't afraid and you did what you thought was So? It didn't amount to anything. It was completely meaningless.
POPS: The truth was, I couldn't have been more proud of you son. Not because you won, but because you stood up, you weren't afraid and you did what you thought was So? It didn't amount to anything. It was completely meaningless.
SPEED: So? It didn't amount to anything. It was completely meaningless.
POPS: How could it be meaningless? I saw my son become a man. I watched him act with courage and integrity and drive the pants off of every driver on the road. This is not meaningless. This is the reason for a father's life. Pop's eyes'begin to twinkle with tears
SPEED: I love you Pops. I'm just so confused right now. I don't what I'm doing or why I'm doing it. I'm locked up in some kinda tailspin and no direction makes sense.
POPS: I know what that's like. When Rex died I didn't even. know if I wanted salt on my eggs, let alone if I wanted to keep building cars. Then, do you remember when we sat here, that night, watching old Ben Burns and Dugazi? You remember Speednods vaguely.
SPEED: Jeez Pops. That's just it. That's part of my problem.
POPS: That race. The '43 Prix. Burns and Dugazi? It was fixed. Remmington told me the whole story. It was all about some DNF names Rotts. They've known the winner of every Grand Prix for the past 50 years. It's always fixed. That's a tough pill for Pops to swallow.
SPEED: That race. The '43 Prix. Burns and Dugazi? It was fixed. Remmington told me the whole story. It was all about some DNF names Rotts. They've known the winner of every Grand Prix for the past 50 years. It's always fixed. That's a tough pill for Pops to swallow.
POPS: I don't believe that. Remmington's a crook. You can't believe a crook.
SPEED: I don't think he was lying, Pops.
POPS: The Grand Prix? A sham? Ding dong.
WITH: Speed opens the door. She seems to glow, radiating her own incandescence.
SPEED: Forgive me for intruding but I had to come before it was too late. Speed eyes her for a moment wondering if this is another HORUKO ( CONT'D ) This is not a trick. I swear to you. I am not my brother.
HORUKO: Forgive me for intruding but I had to come before it was too late. Speed eyes her for a moment wondering if this is another HORUKO ( CONT'D ) This is not a trick. I swear to you. I am not my brother.
POPS: You going to ask the lovely lady CONTINUED: ( 4 ) Yeah, sure. Come on in. She steps in, looking somewhat out of place in the suburban living room.
SPEED: Yeah, sure. Come on in. She steps in, looking somewhat out of place in the suburban living room.
POPS: Can I get you something to drink?
HORUKO: No. My security man believes I am still at the opera, so I only have a moment. She turns to Speed.
SPEED: It's fine. Just another lesson No.. It is they who are in need of a lesson. She pulls an envelope out of her bag and gives it to HORUKO ( CONT'D ) This rightfully belongs to you. He opens the envelope and his eyes immediately light up.
HORUKO: No.. It is they who are in need of a lesson. She pulls an envelope out of her bag and gives it to HORUKO ( CONT'D ) This rightfully belongs to you. He opens the envelope and his eyes immediately light up.
SPEED: An invitation to compete in the 91st annual Grand Prix?
HORUKO: My brother was planning to decline anyway but I studied the rules very carefully and as a member of the Okamoto team, if you present this invitation on the day of the race, they must allow you to Pops bursts into a smile and slaps Speed on the back.
POPS: Whaddya think of that, Mr. Its- You do not have to say anything. I only hope you drive as you did in Casa Cristo and you wipe the smiles from their faces.
SPEED: You do not have to say anything. I only hope you drive as you did in Casa Cristo and you wipe the smiles from their faces.
HORUKO: You do not have to say anything. I only hope you drive as you did in Casa Cristo and you wipe the smiles from their faces.
POPS: We don't have a car. Sparky!
SPARKY: Right here Pops. Sparky steps out of the kitchen doorway.
POPS: What're you doing in the kitchen?
SPARKY: Same as everyone else. Behind him the entire family peeks out.
SPEED: I don't believe it. You were listening the whole time? Trixie goes to him.
TRIXIE: We were worried about you.
HORUKO: I would say good luck Saturday but you do not need it. You are already very lucky to have such a Goodbye and thank you. He closes the door.
SPEED: Goodbye and thank you. He closes the door.
POPS: Come on! We got work to do.
SPARKY: But Pops, the race is less than 36 hours away.
POPS: Isn't that how fast Remmington said he could build that tin can with all his fancy machines?
SPARKY: Then we'll do it in 32. Let's go! He heads for the garage, Sprittle leaping after him.
POPS: Then we'll do it in 32. Let's go! He heads for the garage, Sprittle leaping after him.
SPRITTLE: I want to help.
POPS: Well come on.
SPRITTLE: Chim-chim too?
POPS: We need everyone.
REMMINGTON: I swear to you Mr. Mushi when the GRX is revealed at the Grand Prix and then captures the black and white checkers the demand for our transponder engines will go through the roof. INT. RACER FAMILY GARAGE The Racers continue to work, Sparky beginning to fall asleep just as Mom brings him a big, steaming cup of The car is further along, but still a long way from INT. REMMINGTON'S OFFICE Papers are signed. Hands are shaken. Pictures posed for. The harmony of the corpratocracy complete as
SPARKY: Alright, fire it up! Everyone holds their breath as Speed hits the ignition. The car makes a sick baying rattle and smoke begins pouring out of the engine.
REMMINGTON: Ladies and gentlemen, behold the It's black, shiny, and beautiful in a malefic way.
SPEED: Sparks, it's getting late.
SPARKY: I know, I know. Okay. Give it a Everyone braces as Speed hits the ignition. It is the sound of an explosion held in the palm of your Sounds beefy Pops.
SPEED: Sounds beefy Pops.
POPS: It gives you a little something Let's get it loaded!
SPEED: Let's get it loaded!
CASS JONES: This year marks a new record as the Grand Prix will be broadcast in eighty-four different The camera pans. over the multitude of ethnic CASS JONES ( CONT'D ) Just gets bigger every year, doesn't it Ben?
BEN BURNS: Seems like it.
CASS JONES: We've got an incredible lineup this year. Some major competition. We got a few fan favorites like the Gray Ghost, Sonic "Boom-boom" Renaldi and Prince Kabala. We got perenial powerhouses like Nitro Venderhoss, Gary "Gearbox" Kalinkov, and Mori BEN BURNS Not to mention C ball.
BEN BURNS: Not to mention C ball.
FUJI ANNOUNCER: Cannonball Taylor, fastest Grand Prix seed in history, driving the new ORX from Remmington Racecars.
BEN BURNS: She looks mighty tight.
BEN BURNS: Hey there's something going on down there.
CASS JONES: We're seeing some kind of commotion down at the trailer EXT. TRAILER ENTRANCE A large group of security officials are gathered, staring at the invitation in Speed's hand. One of them starts to shake his head when he hears
INSPECTOR DETECTOR: Is there a problem here, officer?
GENNIE: Sir, we have a problem.
REMMINGTON: What madness is going on here?
REMMINGTON: Where did you get that?
SPEED: I was on the Okamoto team remember? I won it fair and This is preposterous! He can't be allowed to race. It's too late.
REMMINGTON: This is preposterous! He can't be allowed to race. It's too late.
INSPECTOR DETECTOR: The ruling on this is quite clear. Try to stop it and you'll be in blatant violation of the WRL charter, leaving me no option but to shut this years Prix down until a full investigation can be What?! Do you have any idea what that would cost? Are you insane?
REMMINGTON: What?! Do you have any idea what that would cost? Are you insane?
INSPECTOR DETECTOR: Try me. Remmington stews then spits a threat at Speed.
REMMINGTON: You'll regret this.
SPEED: Doubt it.
CASS JONES: Something big is going on because every race official has been wait, wait. An announcement is being made. A new driver is being added to the field.
BEN BURNS: Holy sh
REMMINGTON: A million dollars to the driver that takes Racer out.
CANNONBALL: He won't get out of the blocks.
REMMINGTON: I prefer him to not even make it out of the locker room. Cannonball smiles as Remmington starts to turn.
CANNONBALL: I don't need one to beat that A precaution.
REMMINGTON: A precaution.
SPEED: Oh no.
GRAY GHOST: Hey kid
SPEED: The Gray Ghost.
GRAY GHOST: Just wanted to say good luck. He reaches out to shake, then whispers.
SPEED: A million dollars? Wow. Maybe I should take myself out.
GRAY GHOST: Watch yourself. Your ruffling some pretty major feathers here.
SPEED: Why aren't you after the bounty?
GRAY GHOST: Our little dance at Fujithat's how it should always be.
CASS JONES: As the cars take to the field you can feel the anticipation mounting in the audience. Something is different. There is an electricity in the air. The presence of Speed Racer has completely changed the equation.
RACER X: Speed Racer? Speed turns, taking a moment to realize the handsome millionaire playboy in the tux is unmasked Racer X. He glances down at Speed's belongings and sees a picture of Oh, yeah.
SPEED: Oh, yeah.
SPEED: I just. I got this thing. its stupid, I know, a superstition, but I guess all of us got one.
CASS JONES: There he is now, Speed Racer, perhaps the biggest wild card in Grand Prix history.
TRIXIE: Look! There's Speed!
CASS JONES: Speed Racer gets his first eyeful of the Coliseum.
BEN: This ain't Kansas baby!
PRINCE: Hey, mouth-breather, get used to
THIS: He shows Speed his ass.
SPARKY: Howya feelin'? Speed takes a breath as he dares to look around again.
SPEED: .it's big.
SPARKY: Hey, this cockpit is the exact same size it was at Thunderhead.
SPEED: Just wanted to say, thanks, for what could be the most exciting moment of my life.
SPARKY: Just wanted to say, thanks, for what could be the most exciting moment of my life.
SPEED: Couldn't have gotten here without He hugs him.
SPARKY: I'm looking forward to that cold Me too. Speed climbs in as the speaker system blares
SPEED: Me too. Speed climbs in as the speaker system blares
CASS JONES: The final countdown has begun and a stillness has fallen over this stadium as all eyes turn to one BEN BURNS This ain't a race. It's a EXT. GRAND PRIX Again we cut to the many varied expressions of anticipation: Trixie, Mushi, Okamoto, Sprittle, and Chim- chim, Katsu and Horuko, Mom and Pops, Remmington and Racer X who no longer has any socks, until The gun sounds The cars become bullets hurdled forward, except for the car in front of Speed which barely moves blocking his
BEN BURNS: This ain't a race. It's a EXT. GRAND PRIX Again we cut to the many varied expressions of anticipation: Trixie, Mushi, Okamoto, Sprittle, and Chim- chim, Katsu and Horuko, Mom and Pops, Remmington and Racer X who no longer has any socks, until The gun sounds The cars become bullets hurdled forward, except for the car in front of Speed which barely moves blocking his
PATH: He tries to avoid it but can't, rear-ending him while the car behind him slams into the back of the Mach 5.
CASS JONES: Trouble at the start, a misfire traps Speed Racer, causing a
COLLISION: BEN BURNS Uh-oh. Look out!
BEN BURNS: Uh-oh. Look out!
CASS JONES: I don't know how he got out of that one
BEN BURNS: That-kid's wiley.
CASS JONES: Speed fakes left, jumps right
BEN BURNS: Nice, nice
CASS JONES: He slips in behind Gearbox-
BEN BURNS: Here comes over under
BEN BURNS: I told you! I told you!
CASS JONES: Speed Racer seems unstoppable, moving up from dead last, nearing the leaders as they head into the slalom with the Gray Ghost battling Prince Kabala and Cannonball Taylor for the lead.
GRAY GHOST: Where am I? Where am I? I'm here. I am over there. I'm Savior Faire! The Prince tries to block the Ghost but he can't seem to locate him.
CASS JONES: A spectacular crash as the Prince's jewel-covered Gigerbon worth an estimated 22 million dollars is scattered over a quarter mile of track.
BEN BURNS: I'd like to work clean up on that They chuckle.
CASS JONES: But look out, as they approach the Big Drop, here comes Speed Racer?
HIM: The green Mushi motors car, the Gray Ghost, and the Black
CASS JONES: Speed Racer is knocking on the door of the new GRX driven by Cannonball Taylor.
BEN BURNS: You hoot Anybody home?
SPEED: Ok Mr. Two Time Grand Prix, Five time WRL, future Hall of Fame, teach me something.
SPEED: Come on! Is that it? He swerves back and the two cars begin to battle but it is immediately clear who is the better driver, as Speed throws Cannonball from one side of the track to the TNT. GRAND PRIX ANNOUNCER'S BOOTH CASS JONES Cannonball Taylor is in trouble.
CASS JONES: Cannonball Taylor is in trouble.
BEN BURNS: Tear `em up kid!
REMMINGTON: Do it. Stop him. Stop him now.
SPEED: Lesson's over. See you at the finish line. Speed slides into Cannonball to throw him but as he does
SPARKY: What is it?
SPEED: Spear hook! He's got me! Cannonball slows driving both cars into the wall, grinding against the Mach 5 while the trailing cars shoot INT. GRAND PRIX ANNOUNCER'S BOOTH CASS JONES Cannonball has Speed pinned as they grind through the butterfly INT. GRAND PRIX PENTHOUSE Remmington relaxes as Speed falls further off the leader EXT. GRAND PRIX GRANDSTANDS Sprittle understands immediately what is going on.
CASS JONES: Cannonball has Speed pinned as they grind through the butterfly INT. GRAND PRIX PENTHOUSE Remmington relaxes as Speed falls further off the leader EXT. GRAND PRIX GRANDSTANDS Sprittle understands immediately what is going on.
SPRITTLE: That cheater! He's using a spear hook! SPEAR HOOK! SPEAR HOOK! The surrounding crowd becomes uncomfortable.
POPS: Sprittle, we don't know that.
SPRITTLE: I do! Cannonball Taylor is nothing but a big cheater!
BEN BURNS: This is going to be ugly.
SPRITTLE: Told you so! Chim-chim high fives him.
CASS JONES: Cannonball clearly using a spear BEN BURNS That could cost him the Hall of CASS JONES Not to mention what it might do to Remmington Industries.
BEN BURNS: That could cost him the Hall of CASS JONES Not to mention what it might do to Remmington Industries.
CASS JONES: Not to mention what it might do to Remmington Industries.
BEN BURNS: Shame on them.
SPARKY: Oh no, come on, don't do this.
POPS: Don't quit on us now baby.
RACER X: Careful. Listen to it. Don't kill the starter.
SPEED: What do you need? Something makes him put the car in second gear. He steps on the accelerator, then hits the starter and- And the Mach 5 roars to life. The crowd screams to the wail of burning rubber.
CASS JONES: He's back in it, but less than a lap and a half, I don't know what kind of chance he has.
BEN BURNS: Come on kid! Move it!
CASS JONES: Look at the split! He's shattering the lap record.
BEN BURNS: Don't mean a thing without those EXT. GRAND PRIX TRACK Speed comes out of the spiral, glimpsing the back of the trailers as they go over the Big Drop. Where they ease over the edge, Speed hurls out, going airborne, free-falling past two trailers, as The grade of the slope reaches up and gently eases the Mach 5 back onto the track, to the delight of the crowd. The Mach 5 surfs up the big bank, weaving through another pair that try to stop him with spectacularly disastrous outside the Mach 5 a maelstrom of violent chaos churns
WHILE: Inside, Speed is perfectly at pease.
CASS JONES: No hesitation, nothing fazes him, no one seems capable of stopping BEN BURNS This kid ain't just drivinghe's on a mission.
BEN BURNS: This kid ain't just drivinghe's on a mission.
REMMINGTON: Stop him! Stop him!
GRAY GHOST: Welcome back kid. Been lonely up here without you.
CASS JONES: With a quarter lap to go Speed Racer is back, two cars beneath him and destiny.
GRAY GHOST: Oh yeah, here we go, here we go. Speed flashes one way, then another, moving in ghost-like feigns, here there, and everywhere.
AS: The Ghost flies in, taking a broadside hit from the Mushi car, both of them exploding just feet from the finish line, as Speed launches up and through the cloud of smoke and fire, crossing into history with the flashing wave of the checkered black and white Fluttering softly in the silence as the crowd begins to rise to their feet. The Mach 5 slides to a stop and for a moment Speed catches his breath, then, slowly pulling off his helmet he begins to let it all in The thunder of the crowd can be felt through his chest straight to his heart.
AS: INT. GRAND PRIX PENTHOUSE The smiles of Katsu and his father are gone giving Horuko no end of secret joy.
CASS JONES: It's a pandemonium! People have gone completely crazy! In fourteen years we've never seen anything like this!
BEN BURNS: It's a whole new world baby, a whole new world.
INSPECTOR DETECTOR: He did it. Racer X lowers his binos and turns to the inspector.
RACER: Yes, he did.
INSPECTOR DETECTOR: This could change everything.
RACER X: It already has.
INSPECTOR DETECTOR: My men are bringing the family down. Do you want to go with RACER X He turns and takes Minx by the arm.
RACER X: He turns and takes Minx by the arm.
INSPECTOR DETECTOR: Can I ask you a question? Do you ever think you made a mistake, hiding the truth from them?
RACER X: If I did, then it's a mistake I have to live with. He walks away while-
TRIXIE: She pushes towards him and he sweeps her up into his arms and kisses her, surrounded by the sparkle of camera flash
SPRITTLE: Danger. May cause cookies. Mom and Pops both hug Speed, their eyes bright with joy
AS: We rise up, up, and away. Roll snazzy credits.
THE END: Writers : Larry Wachowski Andy Wachowski
