THIRD DRAFT: September 18, 1984
ALEC: Wendy Beamish and Billy Hicks? They were in a car accident?
ELECTRIC DOORS: zip open again, introducing JULIANNA VAN PATTER ( JULES ), another freshman in life, but her sleek style gives her a certain sexual sophistication. She is accompanied by her dark, interesting DATE as she joins her friends and the Cops.
JULES: They're dead, aren't they? Everyone ignores her as Alec hands his card to the Cops.
ALEC: Officers, I'm Alec Newberry with Congressman Langston's office. Leslie whispers to Jules, while Alec and the Cops talk.
LESLIE: I think they're okay.
JULES: Thank God.
HER FRIENDS: Wendy. Oh, my God. Are you all right???
WENDY: I'm fine. It's the car my father gave me for graduation that's Find Billy. See if you can sober him up. Kevin always does what Alec tells him to. Meanwhile, Wendy pulls out her Visa card and speaks to the nurse.
ALEC: ( TO KEVIN )
WENDY: How much do I owe you?
JULES: He almost killed you. Destroyed your car, and you're paying.?
LESLIE: Jules, please. As Leslie comforts her, Wendy is looking over Jules' Date who hovers in the distance.
WENDY: Is that your date? The naked man wanders past them.
JULES: No, that's my date! As usual, Jules has managed to make Wendy laugh, Just as the Cops approach her.
WENDY: KI RBO ( CONTINUED ) 1 CONTINUED: ( 2 ) 0
KI RBO: 'I'm Mr. Hicks' legal counsel and he's not required to take any You're a little late, Counselor. He's in the van giving blood right The Cops start toward the electric doors as Kirbo and Alec follow. Leslie helps Wendy with the bill. CAMERA FINDS Jules whispering dramatically to her Date.
COP 1: You're a little late, Counselor. He's in the van giving blood right The Cops start toward the electric doors as Kirbo and Alec follow. Leslie helps Wendy with the bill. CAMERA FINDS Jules whispering dramatically to her Date.
JULES: I'll have to be with her all night. They don't know if she's going to make it.
DATE: She looks fine.
JULES: Shock. She could black out at any second. I'll call you. Jules joins Leslie and Wendy.
LESLIE: He's cute.
JULES: Too young. and don't you both start on your father complex 2 EXT. MEDICAL CENTER 2 Alec and Kirbo follow the Cops toward a mobile van.
KIRBO: We're dealing with a first offender here, and since Ms. Beamish doesn't want to press charges, whaddya say we just let this one slide, They reach the back of the mobile van, where we see BILLY HICKS, a handsome daredevil, playing his saxophone, wearing handcuffs, for two good-looking nurses and Kevin, who is trying to give him black coffee.
COP $1: Okay, you're under arrest. Alec looks to Kevin for information about Billy's I wouldn't strike a match near his Hey, watch my sax.
KEVIN: I wouldn't strike a match near his Hey, watch my sax.
BILLY: ( TO COPS )
ALEC: Billy four months after graduation and you're still acting like every night's a fraternity party. Aren't you even concerned about Wendy?
BILLY: ( TRUE PANIC )
KEVIN: Severe. She might have finally exceeded the limit on her father's Billy smiles with relief as the Cops lead him toward their car.
ALEC: Will you both get serious. He's being arrested for drunk driving.
BILLY: Drunk maybe. But I don't know if you could call that driving. Wendy, Leslie and Jules come from the hospital, just in time to see Billy being put into the cop car. Wendy rushes to Billy and they embrace.
BILLY: Sorry, babe. sorry.
WEHDY: We'll be right behind you! They all move toward Alec's car except Kirbo, who sud- denly notices'someone. He becomes mesmerized as he falls away from the group and starts back for the hospital.
KIRBO: Dale?. Dale Biberman? She hesitates, somewhat puzzled.
KIRBO: You don't remember me.
DALE: I do, but I'm trying.
KIRBO: Kirby Kreager. You were a senior when I started Georgetown.
DALE: Kirby. It's been four years. How are you?
KI RBO: I graduated!
DALE: I always knew you would.
KIRBO: And I'm a lawyer. ( as she looks at his waiter's duds ) I mean I'm a waiter, studying to be a lawyer. and you became a doctor. Just like you said you Almost. I'm finishing my clinical.
DALE: Almost. I'm finishing my clinical.
KIRBO: Dale Biberman. I can't believe it. Do you still like Woody Allen There is a big COMMOTION at the other and of the hail.
DALE: I've got to go. Nice seeing you. She races down the hall, joining paramedics wheeling in a large black man on a gurney. His hysterical wife runs screaming behind them.
KIRBO: Madly in love.
POSTGRAD: Hey, Billy, where's the fifty you owe me.
BILLY: Alec, could you kinds burn a little Alec turns the corner as Billy continues.
BILLY: Thanks for bailing me out.
JULES: 7 EXT. ST. ELMO'S BAR - NIGHT 7 A local hangout for those primarily in their twenties. Alec parks as his gang emerges.
JULES: When are you going to get a new car? One that truly expresses your lifestyle as the perfect Not everybody got recruited out of school into international banking, 'moneybags.'
LESLIE: Not everybody got recruited out of school into international banking, 'moneybags.'
ALEC: Besides. My mom and dad gave us this car. I think I was conceived in the back seat.
KEVIN: It's still sticky.
WENDY: Oh, God. Wait 'til my father hears the car is totalled.
BILLY: I'm gonna get you a new car, Wendy. Everyone screams in disbelief as they go into St. Elmo's. Alec, Leslie, Jules, Wendy, Kevin holds the door open, but no one thanks him.
KEVIN: You're welcome. You're welcome. A young, burned-out UNDERGRAD ( CLAYTON ) follows.
KEVIN: You're not welcome, Clayton. How's Baroque. Thank you very much. How's life after school?
CLAYTON: Baroque. Thank you very much. How's life after school?
KEVIN: Like getting slam-dunked against a brick wall, thank you very much.
CLAYTON: College is the last womb. Got a cigarette for a lowly undergrad?
KEVIN: If you tell me the meaning of life?
CLAYTON: Life? Life's like acne. It has to get worse before it gets better.
ALEC: Wally! You let undergrad punks at our tables???
WALLY: Relax, Alec. they've only been there ten minutes.
ALEC: Yeah, well, we've been here for four years. Alec, Leslie, Jules, Wendy, Kevin and Billy ( still with sax around his neck ) take their usual chairs as Kirbo drops off a large pitcher of beer.
BILLY: Hey, I need a real drink. Kirbo is long gone. Kevin pours.
KEVIN: Waiters are like cops. Never around when you need one. Kevin and Alec begin bouncing quarters from the edge of a table into their beers obviously some ritual.
BILLY: Will somebody get me a screwdriver?
JULES: And a hammer.
ALEC: You know what it means to have a suspended license for drunk driving on your record?
BILLY: Yeah, Al. It means I won't ever be able to be a cop in D.C. Hey, Wend, you're not angry are you?
WENDY: No, I'm not angry.
KEVIN: Never trust a woman who says she isn't angry.
WENDY: You better call your wife, Billy. Billy reluctantly leaves as Jules laces into Kevin.
JULES: You're the one who's so angry these days. I thought writing for the Washington Post would make you happy.
KEVI N: Writing obituaries is not writing, Jules. All my characters die in the and. I'd like to write something about the meaning of life for a change.
LESLIE: You'll get your chance, Kevin. Alec suddenly spots TOMMY BANCROFT, an older version of Alec, across the room.
ALEC: Hey, Tommy.
JULES: The meaning of life, Kevin, is fun, good times and a little H-U-M-O-R. Don't you enjoy anything anymore? Like girls?
KEVI N: I enjoy being afraid of Russia. It's a harmless fear. Makes America feel better and Russia gets an inflated sense of national worth from our paranoia. Excuse me, I have to call in my latest epitaphs to the death squad. The presses are waiting. He gets up and leaves the table, passing Kirbo.
KIRBO: Did you see her at the hospital? Dale Biberman?
KEVIN: 9 BILLY ON PHONE 9 Well, honey, I kinda had a car accident. What? Stop shouting. I know I don't have any insurance. Aren't you even gonna ask if I'm Billy adjusts a framed photo on the wall of him, Alec, Jules, Wendy, Kevin, Leslie and Kirbo in their graduation caps and gowns. He notices a woman's reflection in the glass. He turns to see she is flirting with him from the bar. He smiles back. Kevin arrives and Billy sees a perfect way to get off the phone.
BILLY: Well, honey, I kinda had a car accident. What? Stop shouting. I know I don't have any insurance. Aren't you even gonna ask if I'm Billy adjusts a framed photo on the wall of him, Alec, Jules, Wendy, Kevin, Leslie and Kirbo in their graduation caps and gowns. He notices a woman's reflection in the glass. He turns to see she is flirting with him from the bar. He smiles back. Kevin arrives and Billy sees a perfect way to get off the phone.
BILLY: Here's Kevin, he wants to say He hands the phone to a more than reluctant Kevin and moves toward the YOUNG WOMAN at the bar.
BILLY: Hey, Wally. a double screwdriver. He joins the Young Woman who is eyeing his sax.
BILLY: So, you believe in premarital sax?
WEND Y: Will you both give Billy a break? He lost his job today.
LESLIE: The job Alec got for him?
JULES: You didn't give him any money, did A little.
WENDY: A little.
Â€¢ JULES: I thought you were going to take definite steps to change everything in your life that is not working.
WENDY: That doesn't leave much left.
LESLIE: I better break this to Alec gently before he finds out the wrong way and destroys his political career by murdering Billy in front of fifty witnesses. She leaves as Jules looks to Wendy.
JULES: Wendy, this is all too destructive.
WENDY: Life in the-fat lane.
JULES: You're not fat.
WENDY: My thighs are fat. And no diet works. The only way to lose weight on your thighs is amputation.
JULES: You have to amputate Billy the Kid.
WENDY: I know, but I can't.
JULES: I don't get it.
WENDY: Me, either.
YOUNG WOMAN: So, what line of work are you in?
BILLY: Me? I'm a very important drinker! So how 'bout we cut outta here?
BILLY: That's okay, honey. This face seats five. Alec appears.
ALEC: Billy, may I see you, please. Billy follows as Leslie alerts Kevin and Kirbo.
BILLY: What's up, Al?
ALEC: May I see you over here, please. Billy joins him. Alec grabs him and shoves his head in the toilet.
ALEC: Why didn't you tell me you blew another job?
BILLY: For some insane reason I thought you'd take it badly. Kevin and Kirbo rush in.
KEVIN: Don't drown him, he's a father. Alec releases Billy who comes up with his hair wet and gives Alec a major shove.
ALEC: That's right, you are a father and when are you gonna grow up?
BILLY: Like this was real mature, Al? They all start to laugh. Alec softens.
ALEC: I just got pissed off 'cause I had to pull so many strings to get you that job.
Â€¢ BILLY: Working for Senator Pomerantz was not for me. Billy looks at himself in the mirror.
ALEC: Sorry, Billy.
BILLY: That's all right. You couldn't help yourself. You're an asshole. Besides, the wet look is in. He shakes his head, showering them with toilet water.
KEVIN: Why do they put ice cubes in the It tastes better.
KIRBO: It tastes better.
LESLIE: If we could find the money it would be better to get the longer sofa. Alec enters in his underwear, brushing his teeth.
ALEC: Tommy Bancroft said I could start working on weekends for Hodges. No pay at first, but a way toward big dough. They wrap themselves around each other, kissing.
LESLIE: Isn't Hodges a Republican?
0 C: Â€¢ 15 ALEC 15 ( KISSING HIM )
LESLIE: ( KISSING HIM )
ALEC: You want the longer sofa?
LESLIE: - I want you.
ALEC: I'm going to buy you a red nightgown with satin and lace.
LESLIE: And rubber and leather.
ALEC: Yeah, leather. He opens her shirt and smothers her with love.
LESLIE: Your breath is so sweet. Wait, let me get the babykiller. She starts for the bathroom.
ALEC: Come on. Let's just do it. We're getting married soon.
LESLIE: Not so soon.
ALEC: Let's take a chance. Russian And guess who has to carry the bullet around for nine months. There is a KNOCK at the front door.
LESLIE: And guess who has to carry the bullet around for nine months. There is a KNOCK at the front door.
E R: 15 LESLIE 15
ALEC: Who else could it be. Jules, of course, afraid to stay in her new apartment alone and she's spending the night again.
JULES: So this crummy welfare hospital called and remember I told you about my father's second wife. My The one who used to lock you in the closet all the time?
LESLIE: The one who used to lock you in the closet all the time?
JULES: She gambled away all the money she got out of my father, is on her I deathbed and she put me down as next of kin.
LESLIE: But what about your father?
JULES: Unreachable somewhere in South Africa with his new wife, who it turns out is only three years older than me. And if I don't reach him, guess who's going to end up paying for that old witch's funeral. Is there some insane irony to this or I'm sure your father will take care of everything.
LESLIE: I'm sure your father will take care of everything.
JULES: Sure, just like he takes care of everything else, including not showing up for my graduation. In the background, Alec has brought in their mattress and some sheets and a pillow.
JULES: Thanks, Alec. You're still my Indiana Jones. Always coming to my rescue.
ALEC: I just know better than to try and break the umbilical cord between two old roommates. Good night, Leslie kisses Jules and goes into the bedroom with Alec. Jules takes another belt of vodka.
KEVIN: TAKE IT. TAKE ANOTHER LITTLE PIECE OF MY HEART NOW, DARLIN'. Kirbo enters carrying his bike, and Kevin immediately hides the photographs in a straw basket and becomes his sophisticated self.
KEVIN: Quick, what's the meaning of life?
KIRBO: Dale Biberman. Kevin looks puzzled as Kirbo hangs up his bike.
KIRBO: The girl I fell in love with when we were freshmen. Remember, I met her at that big fountain on main campus? The one that says 'Knowledge, Art, Religion, Life'. she was sitting on the 'Life' side and she smiled at me.
KEVIN: You took her to one movie! That's not love, it's infatuation! Kirbo searches madly through records strewn on the floor.
KIRBO: . Getting married. becoming a Killing his roommate for removing Janis Joplin for the soundtrack from Manhattan???
KEVIN: Killing his roommate for removing Janis Joplin for the soundtrack from Manhattan???
KIRBO: And having the right girl smile at you. She has the whitest teeth I've ever seen. "RHAPSODY IN BLUE" fills the room. Kevin begins gathering up his endless pieces of paper, notes, etc.
KEVIN: If you think I'm going to live through another year of finding poorly written, unmailed love scratchings around this apartment.
KIRBO: I found her again. It's fate. It's true love. I have her hospital schedule!
KEVIN: Love is just an illusion created by lawyer-types like yourself to perpetuate another illusion called marriage to create the reality of divorce and the illusory need for divorce lawyers. Did you know there are more people in law school right now than there are lawyers on the planet?
KIRBO: You're just bitter, 'cause you haven't had sex for a long time.
KEVIN: No wonder. The sexual revolution? Who won?
KIRBO: It's the only illusion that counts.
KEVIN: Says who?
KIRBO: Anyone who's ever been in love.
KEVIN: Love stinks. He moves into the bedroom, closing the door on Kirbo.
JULES: You should have bought the red dress. Red drives men mad. As two college guys hit on Jules she flips her red cape.
JULES: I have a mad man in my life You have to put some kind of distance between you and Billy.
WENDY: I have a mad man in my life You have to put some kind of distance between you and Billy.
JULES: You have to put some kind of distance between you and Billy.
LESLIE: Jules is right. Kevin and Kirbo join them.
WEHDY: It's easy for both of you. Men are just a game for you Jules.
JULES: Trivial pursuit.
WEHDY: And of course you and Alec are.
LESLIE: Thanks for the pressure, guys.
& C: 20 20
WEND Y: How'd you do?
BILLY: I'm an official pollster, thanks to Alec. Everyone applauds.
ALEC: ( KISSING LESLIE )
BILLY: You're a god, Alec.
JULES: How 'bout bloody Marys on me at St. Elmo's? Everyone cheers except Alec.
ALEC: I gotta get back to work.
KIRBO: Since when do you work on Saturdays?
LESLIE: Since he started volunteer moonlighting for Senator Hodges.
KI RBO: What is the three-year president of Georgetown's Young Democrats doing working for a Republican?
ALEC: Moving up, Kirbo. As most of the others boo and hiss playfully, CAMERA FINDS Billy talking to Wendy. Reaching in his pocket, he gives her a toy car.
BILLY: I told you I'd get you a new car. I'm goin' ultimate on this gig, Wend. Gonna pay you back for everything. Let's celebrate tonight.
WENDY MI: What about Felicia and the baby?
BILLY: Hey, come on, it's Saturday night. Let's party out. Let's go ultimate. Could he mean sex? Love? What she's been waiting for?
WENDY: Okay. Why can't I say no to you?
JULES: What do you think?
KEVIN: Very subtle and very pink. Must have cost some subtle bucks.
JULES: Why do you think God invented credit for fabulous people like me? Fix us a drink. She disappears into the bedroom.
KIRBO: Why, Dale? How nice to see you Kirby, what brings you back here? Nothing serious, I hope.
DALE: Kirby, what brings you back here? Nothing serious, I hope.
KIRBO: Oh, no. just tying up some legal loose ends for my friends.
DALE: Excuse me. I'm late.
KI RBO: Ah, funny running into you again. I noticed there's going to be a Woody Allen festival and I thought maybe we.
DALE: I don't get to the movies much anymore. I've got to go. She is moving away.
DALE: Sure. That would be nice sometime. She is moving quicker.
Â€¢ KIRRO: Wednesday? How about Wednesday? Dale is gone.
LESLIE: A whole community within itself. Right near Lockheed. Open some wine.
KEVIN: Looks like it could be put together with Leggo blocks. You design this?
.LESLIE: I did all the mechanicals for one of our senior architects and I think he's going to promote me to the design staff. Kevin is fighting with a ridiculous wine opener.
KEVIN: Maybe you could design a corkscrew that actually works. Everything in this apartment comes from Scandinavia. They don't even have wine in Naturally Leslie opens it in a flash.
KEVIN: Do you think my attachment to Alec is unnatural?
LESLIE: No, I think mine is. We've only just started to live together and he's already pushing for 'the Well, since you fell in love with a Democrat and now he's a Republican, I think all bets are
KEVIN: Well, since you fell in love with a Democrat and now he's a Republican, I think all bets are
LESLIE: How do some women do this every night of their lives and not go They are insane. Wives, husbands, children, love, marriage, relationship. It's all insane.
KEVIN: They are insane. Wives, husbands, children, love, marriage, relationship. It's all insane.
LESLIE: That's what I'm afraid of. Did I tell you that my perfect sister and her perfect husband are getting a perfect divorce-?
KEVIN: I have the perfect cure. Stay away from love. He finds the butter and puts some on her hand.
LESLIE: You must have been in love, once. You like hot peppers?
KEVIN: Doesn't Alec hate them?
LESLIE: Insurrection. Now, come on, Kevin, you must have been in love with somebody, sometime.
KEVIN: Once, in junior high. I played guitar in a group and fellin love with our singer who did 'We've Only Just Begun' as sweet as Karen Carpenter. I got high on cheap champagne and pledged my love. Next day she ran off with the bass player named Rocky and I traded my guitar in for a battered Underwood On which you will type your way to being one of the most important writers in America.
LESLIE: On which you will type your way to being one of the most important writers in America.
KEVIN: On which I continue to turn out obituaries and very little else. Taking out shreds of papers and napkins.
Â€¢: On which I continue to turn out obituaries and very little else. Taking out shreds of papers and napkins.
KEVIN: I can't seem to organize any of my thoughts into anything of any Maybe you need to stop thinking so much and fall in love again.
LESLIE: Maybe you need to stop thinking so much and fall in love again.
KEVIN: Love stinks. The door opens and Alec arrives home.
ALEC: Hi, guys. He kisses Leslie.
KEVIN: Rough day with the right wing, Alec hands Leslie a red box. She opens it excitedly and finds a black lace nightgown. She screams as Alec heads for the kitchen.
ALEC: Try it on. Leslie makes naughty eyes at Kevin and disappears into the bedroom.
ALEC: Leslie has to marry me, soon.
KEVIN: Why, you pregnant? Kidding. What's your 'marriage' hurry?
ALEC: When you have a serious relationship, Kev, you'll find out the problem with living together: it's too easy.
KEVIN: Maybe for you and Leslie. You have the perfect relationship.
I ALEC: I mean, it's too easy to get out of. You either build to something bigger like marriage or one day you could make a mistake and the person you were living with is Alec takes a bite of dinner and cringes.
ALEC: I'm going to kill myself.
KEVIN: They're only peppers, Alec.
ALEC: I can't believe what I just did. I innocently go to buy the nightgown and this amazing blonde salesgirl starts coming on to me. we wind up doing it standing up in front of a three-way mirror in the dressing He lies down on the floor.
ALEC: If Leslie would just marry me, I know I wouldn't do stuff like that it would be a legal violation.
KEVIN: As opposed to tonight's standing violation. You think marriage is going to make you faithful?
ALEC: The idea of two people spending their lives together was invented by people who were lucky to make it to thirty without being eaten by dinosaurs. Marriage is obsolete.
KEVIN: The idea of two people spending their lives together was invented by people who were lucky to make it to thirty without being eaten by dinosaurs. Marriage is obsolete.
ALEC: Dinosaurs are obsolete. Marriage is still around. Leslie screams from the bedroom.
I S: This is obscene. I love it. Alec dashes into the bedroom. As he opens and then closes the door, Kevin sees a flash of Leslie looking absolutely ravishing in the nightgown. As they SCREAM and PLAY, Kevin, feeling very alone, stirs the burning 33 EXT. BAD NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT ( LATER ) 33 talking to passing car.
BLACK HOOKER: You want a date.? Hi. you want a date. Kevin passes quietly and she ignores him.
KEVIN: Why don't you ever ask me if I want a date?
BLACK HOOKER: 'Cause I thought you were gay.
KEVIN: Why would you think I'm gay?
BLACK HOOKER: 'Cause I never see you with a girl. And you always look real strange.
KEVIN: Well, just for your information. I happen to be in love with someone but they don't know it. I guess you wouldn't understand loving someone from afar. He takes a swig from a bottle in a paper bag.
BLACK HOOKER: Delaware's about as far as I've ever gone. Is this person a he or a she? She takes the bottle and takes a swig.
KEVIN: It's a secret. But I guess you wouldn't understand about that, Oh honey, lots of people come to me for love and it's a secret. He takes his bottle back and goes home.
BLACK HOOKER: Oh honey, lots of people come to me for love and it's a secret. He takes his bottle back and goes home.
WENDY: See our real purpose, Miss Chambers, or do you prefer Ms. is to get you off welfare and train you in a skilled profession. Now, do you have any interest in the janitorial Jus' give me my check.
WOMAN: Jus' give me my check.
WENDY: There are educational.
WOMAN: Jus' give me my check. Wendy hands her the check.
WOMAN: You get some hot clothes, get yourself a man. you won't be worryin' about all this shit. She leaves as Billy arrives in time to check her out.
BILLY: Welfare recipients are getting better-looking these days.
WENDY: Ever feel like you're not accomplishing anything? Billy sits on her desk.
BILLY: I think I'm in touch with the feeling. Let's go get a drink.
WEND Y: Billy, why aren't you at work? Billy gives her a look she knows all too well.
KIRBO: Buddy, the only extra money I have is my savings for the most important date of my life.
WENDY: Are you in love?
E: Are you in love?
KIRBO: I'm ripped between rapture and s torture. s
WENDY: I'm all tapped out from the accident but I could probably get some from my father.
BILLY: No more money from you, Wend. But maybe you could help me find another Do you have any interest in the janitorial field? They both smile.
WENDY: You should be playing your music. I'm a family man and the rent is Alec, followed by Kevin, storms into the bar and attacks You dumb shit. You have to start making passes at the women you're supposed to be polling?
BILLY: I'm a family man and the rent is Alec, followed by Kevin, storms into the bar and attacks You dumb shit. You have to start making passes at the women you're supposed to be polling?
ALEC: You dumb shit. You have to start making passes at the women you're supposed to be polling?
BILLY: Actually, they were the ones who suggested another type of polin'. He smiles as Alec grabs him.
ALEC: You're twenty-three years old. You got a wife and kid.
BILLY: And you're a great American.- Are you new at this? Or just an
A: And you're a great American.- Are you new at this? Or just an
Â€¢ ALEC: You're not the fraternity star anymore. No more Billy the Kid. Billy starts to leave. Alec follows.
ALEC: I didn't bargain for you turning out this way.
BILLY: And I didn't bargain for you turning into a pompous politico. Suckin' up to Hodges. That's it, Al, isn't it?. You've become a And you've become a drunk.
ALEC: And you've become a drunk.
BILLY: Oh, no, not just 'a' drunk, Big Al. One of the great drunks!
BILLY: Oh, I forgot, Kev. You don't do anything Alec doesn't tell you to do. Well, that's-okay, 'cause just remember one thing. You can pick your friends and you can pick your nose, but you can't pick your friend's nose. Billy leaves. Wendy looks at Alec and starts to laugh.
ALEC: Stay right here, Wendy. She can't and runs after Billy.
ALEC: Alec Newberry. 37 INT. VAN BUREN HOTEL - BATHROOM - NIGHT 37 s â€¢ Jules, wearing a sexy dress, whispers into the phone.
JULES: Alec, it's Jules. I'm at the Van Buren. X INTERCUT their phone conversation.
JULES: Please. I'm with these Arabs. and they've been forcing me to do coke all night. And I only understand a little Arabic, but I'm sure I heard the words for 'gang bang' and 'white slavery'. Please get me out of here. Suite
A: You're so wonderful taking care of all of us. I love you. I really, truly love you. He kisses her.
LESLIE: You're so wonderful taking care of all of us. I love you. I really, truly love you. He kisses her.
ALEC: Open up. After a beat, the door is opened by a sedate Arab businessman. Alec pushes past him.
JULES: Alec, what are you doing here? He quickly grabs her and they leave the suite. The Arabs hardly notice.
ALEC: Okay, nobody make a move. 42 INT. VAX BUREN LOBBY - RIGHT 42 s Jules and Alec walk from the elevators.
JULES: You're a real pal. My Indiana Jones. I won't forget how you came to my rescue again.
ALEC: They hardly impressed me as the gang bang type, Jules. Now much coke have you done?
JULES: Shovels full. They've got You're just paranoid from the coke. You know sometimes I think you just make up these dramas to test me or That's very interesting, let's stay up all night like the old days and discuss it.
ALEC: You're just paranoid from the coke. You know sometimes I think you just make up these dramas to test me or That's very interesting, let's stay up all night like the old days and discuss it.
JULES: That's very interesting, let's stay up all night like the old days and discuss it.
ALEC: I have to be at work in a few hours.
FURS ): And where are you getting all this money from?
JULES: 'I'm a financial genius, haven't you heard?
LJ: Who are you calling?
ALEC: Who are you calling?
JULES: A systems analyst I met. very hot Jewish guy.
ALEC: What are you, the new Middle East Ambassador? It's two-thirty. Come on, I'll take you home.
JULES: And waste all this good coke! As Jules connects with her number, Alec starts to head out of the hotel in disgust. A beautiful older woman is getting her key from the desk and crosses in front of him toward the elevators. She and Alec check each other out. He smiles. She smiles. As her elevator, arrives, she changes her mind and, giving Alec an inviting smile, steps into the dimly-lit bar. Alec is torn between morality and temptation. Temptation wins as he follows the sexy lady.
MAITRE D': Excuse me, sir. We do not open until eleven.
KI RBO: That's all right. I'll wait.
MAITRE D': Do you have a reservation?
KIRBO: Yes. Kreager. One o'clock. I want this table.
MAITRE D': At that time, I will find a lovely table for you and your guest. But this is a table for four.
KIRBO: I'll pay double.
MAITRE D': I'm sorry.
KI RBO: I want this table. and I'm waiting right here.
JULES: You could order a nice Napa Valley Chardonney, unless you want to impress her with an import.
KIRBO: Money's no object.
KIRBO: Okay and how do you say escargot?
JULES: It's payday, thank God!
WOMAN: Jules, you're advanced on your salary two months. I have no check for you.
Â€¢ JULES: That's good. 'Cause I owe everyone else. She hangs up and follows the Woman.
JULES: I've got to pay for my stepmonster's funeral. Then I'll catch up.
WOMAN: I'm afraid you'll have to see Forrester Davidson.
JULES: The president of the bank?
KIRBO: Could you please clean up these crumbs, waiter?
MAITRE D': I am not the waiter. I am the Aye, aye, sir. Dale Biberman rushes into the restaurant in all her splendor. Kirbo is extremely excited.
KIRBO: Aye, aye, sir. Dale Biberman rushes into the restaurant in all her splendor. Kirbo is extremely excited.
DALE: Sorry I'm late. Have you been waiting long?
KIRB0: Just got here. Kirbo beats out the Maitre D' and pulls out Dale's chair;.
DALE: The food is great here.
Â€¢ DALE: Are you a vegetarian?
KIRBO: Ho. that's from Annie Hall, the movie we saw together. don't you remember?
DALE: That's funny. I thought we went to see a Mel Brooks movie.
KIRBO: Ho. it was Annie Hall.
DALE: Are you sure? 'Cause I don't like _ Woody Allen movies very much.
KI RBO: Oh, me, too. I hate Woody Allen The Maitre D' comes over to the table.
MAITRE D': Will you be ordering any wine?
KIRBO: Of course. We'll have the.
DALE: I can't. I'm on call. Kirbo is shot down as the Maitre D' hands Dale a menu.
KIRBO: So. how's your, uh. are you seeing anyone?
DALE: To tell you the truth, my work's so time-consuming, I don't get the chance to date, but when I do well, medicine's such an incestuous profession, the only people I seem to ever go out with are doctors. The Maitre D' returns with the telephone.
MAITRE D': Miss Biberman? Telephone.
DALE: r See, they just won't let me alone.
KIRBO: She is gone as the Maitre D' walks over to him with his pad and speaks with exquisite, controlled sarcasm.
MAITRE D': Have you had enough time to look at the menu?
KEVIN: You cannot go to med school just to impress this girl with whom you have a fleeting infatuation.
KIRBO: This is not just an infatuation and she's not just a girl she's the only evidence of God I can find on this planet with the exception of the mystical force which removes one of my socks from the dryer every time I do laundry. Laundry folded, they head out of the laundromat passing the drop-off "Fluff and Fold" facilities.
KIRBO: 'Fluff and Fold.' I'm telling you, Kev, when I make it, that's where I take my laundry.
KEVIN: I understand 'Fold,' but what is
KIRBO: I understand 'Fold,' but what is
KEVIN: 'Fluff' is what I write for the paper. They leave the laundromat. Kirbo drops a sock.
BILLY: He's kidding, Dad. He's a musician and a very fine one. Wendy leaves them as she enters:
WENDY: He's kidding, Dad. He's a musician and a very fine one. Wendy leaves them as she enters:
RACHEL: Please do not bring up moving out tonight. Daddy'll have a heart attack in front of your boyfriend.
WENDY: He's not my boyfriend.
LIBBY: There's a nice young guy working for us now. Howie Krantz.
WENDY: Libby, please.
MRS. BEAMISH: ( STAGE WHISPER )
WEKDY: Look at it this way. You always wanted to look like Elizabeth Taylor. and now you do. 52 INT. BEAMISH DIKING ROOM - NIGHT ( CONTINUOUS ACTION ) 52 s Billy fills his glass while Wendy's niece and NEPHEWS watch. Wendy joins him.
WEKDY: There are certain words my mother finds too horrible to utter so she whispers them. you'll get used to it.
MRS. BEAMISH: Hear about Betty Rothberg?
BILLY: ( to other Brother-
MRS. BEAMISH: Where did you and Wendy meet again?.
BILLY: ( STAGE WHISPER )
MR. BEAMISH: If you'd get married and run a franchise like your sisters, you wouldn't need to borrow money.
WENDY: I have a job with the Department of Human Services, Dad.
MR. BEAMISH: That's not a job. It's killing time 'til you get married.
WENDY: I'm very committed and I think I should get my own apart. Suddenly, one of Wendy's Nephews comes running into the room excitedly.
NEPHEW: Billy's up on the roof.
MR. BEAMISH: Come down from there.
RACHEL': What, is he crazy?
MRS. BEAMISH: I knew it the minute he walked in the door.
X: ( CONTINUED )
WENDY: All the years we lived here and no one ever did this.
BILLY: I used to do this at the Prat house all the time. Climb out from Alec's room onto the roof and play my sax.
RACHEL: Oh, my God. Wendy's up there with Wendy and Billy ignore them as the family screams and runs back into the house.
WENDY 59: You miss school, don't you?
BILLY: Not a day does by that I don't wish we were all back there. Everything made so much sense then. Our group being so ultimate, so number one.
WENDY: Every group on campus thought they were number one.
BILLY: But we were. Alec and me running everything. Jules and Leslie the hottest girls. Kevin and.
WENDY: Me having the fattest thighs.
BILLY: You being the best of us all. Those all-nighters when we used to talk about our dreams.
WENDY 59: I was gonna save humanity.
BILLY: I was headed for New York with my sax. to become the new Clarence Clemmens. Then I met Felicia and she got pregnant, or said she was. Wendy looks shocked.
BILLY: By the time I found out she had lied, she really was pregnant.
WENDY: Why didn't you ever tell me that No matter. I probably wouldn't have made it in New York, anyway.
BILLY: No matter. I probably wouldn't have made it in New York, anyway.
WENDY: You're very talented, Billy.
BILLY: School was so damned ultimate. Everyday life. there's no way to go ultimate.
WENDY: That's ultimate.
BILLY: Don't you ever just want to Not while I'm still a virgin. Billy looks over at her. He's amazed.
WENDY: Not while I'm still a virgin. Billy looks over at her. He's amazed.
BILLY: Why didn't you ever tell me that
BILLY: Want some? Wendy takes a big gulp. They are both awkward and ap- prehensive. She turns out a lamp. So does he, but knocks it over.
WENDY: She waits, and when she realizes no one has heard the crash, she sits down on the small loveseat. Billy joins her and going to kiss her, knocks her glasses askew.
BILLY: What the hell is that.?
HIS POV: Her long-line panty girdle.
BILLY: Hey, come on, Wend. You're allowed to laugh when you're screwing. Wendy is destroyed as she opens the door.
W: Hey, come on, Wend. You're allowed to laugh when you're screwing. Wendy is destroyed as she opens the door.
WEND Y: I don't think we should see each other, anymore. She pulls out the money her father gave her and places it on a nearby table.
WEHDY: There's your rent money. Just take it and go away. She starts up the stairs. Billy comes to the doorway.
BILLY: Wend. I'm sorry. She is up the stairs and out of sight. Billy feels terrible. He eyes the money on the table and decides not to take it. As he opens the front door, white light from the moon glares INTO the CAMERA, as Billy moves into the light, it becomes whiter, more incandescent he becomes a ghostlike shape that eventually disappears and the SCREEN becomes SHIMMERING WHITE as we
LESLIE: But don't you need science credits to get into mad school?
KI RBO: I have most of the credits from when I was going through my 'major-of-the-week' phase. All I need is Organic Chemistry which I just enrolled in for January.
ALEC: This must be some woman to turn 7 you into a doctor, Kirbo.
KIRBO: Hey, I've been an amateur gynecologist for years. He is gone as Jules and Leslie wave to Billy and start toward the ladies' room.
JULES: So, I went to see my boss and I thought he'd say something presidential like, 'How can I be in banking when I can't even balance my own checkbook.' But instead, he took me to dinner several times.
LESLIE: I was wondering why you haven't been sleeping over. Jules, I don't think you should start bopping your boss.
JULES: Too late, Leslie. You should see him sort of a cross between John Forsythe and Richard Gere.
LESLIE: An old man who doesn't wear
ALEC: Do you have an extra key to your apartment I could use tomorrow?
KEVIN: What for?
ALEC: Remember the lingerie salesgirl? She's been calling me at work.
KEVIN: Alec, you're going to have to learn to say 'no.'
AJ.EC: I need a reason to say no. Until Leslie agrees to marry me, I've got to grab some of the gusto.
KEVIN: You've seen too many beer Wendy arrives, nervously, with HOWIE KRANTZ, a plump, cheerful guy, uncomfortable in his preppy clothes.
WEND Y: Hi. this is Howie Krantz. As Alec and Kevin welcome Howie, CAMERA STAYS ON Wendy, who is filled with mixed emotion watching Billy play. As she sits down slowly, Kevin'speaks to her:
KEVIN: Thought you weren't coming here Oh, we were just passing by. Kevin and she smile as he puts his arm around her. Alec and Howie are talking business.
WENDY: Oh, we were just passing by. Kevin and she smile as he puts his arm around her. Alec and Howie are talking business.
HOWIE: Greeting cards. I work for one of Wendy's brother-in-laws.
ALEC: â€¢ A humongous future in greeting Alec wickedly eyes Kevin as Jules and Leslie return. During introductions to Howie. Jules shouts across the room to a new arrival:
JULES: Over here! Kevin is watching Alec kiss Leslie, when suddenly they are joined by Jules' neighbor, ROH.
Â€¢: Over here! Kevin is watching Alec kiss Leslie, when suddenly they are joined by Jules' neighbor, ROH.
JULES: Everybody. this is my friend and decorator, Ron Dellassandro!!!
ALEC: Oh, shit. All their eyes move across the room, where a very sexy young WOMAN has entered with a noisy blue-collar type.
HOWIE: What's wrong?
WENDY: That's Felicia. Billy's wife.
JULES: But who is she with? Kirbo seats them at a small reserved table. Alec, Leslie, Jules, Wendy, Kevin and Howie all turn their attention immediately to Billy, who is playing his heart out until he sees FELICIA. Felicia and blue-collar get chummier. Billy stops abruptly and jumps from the platform. Alec is up in a flash and headed after him. Billy arrives at their table.
BILLY: Hands off my wife.
FELICIA: Oh, you finally remembered. Where were you this past week? Alec arrives.
ALEC: I said, take your goddamn hands off my wife. Blue-collar just smiles. Billy throws himself on top of him, slugging. Felicia screams. Alec tries to stop them. St. Elmo's watches as Billy and blue-collar beat the shit out of each other. Blood flows. Wally, the owner, arrives with a baseball bat.
IS: I said, take your goddamn hands off my wife. Blue-collar just smiles. Billy throws himself on top of him, slugging. Felicia screams. Alec tries to stop them. St. Elmo's watches as Billy and blue-collar beat the shit out of each other. Blood flows. Wally, the owner, arrives with a baseball bat.
BILLY: I said, take your goddamn hands off my wife. Blue-collar just smiles. Billy throws himself on top of him, slugging. Felicia screams. Alec tries to stop them. St. Elmo's watches as Billy and blue-collar beat the shit out of each other. Blood flows. Wally, the owner, arrives with a baseball bat.
WALLY: Get him outta here. Alec, Kevin and Kirbo get Billy moving toward the door.
FELICIA: Yeah, get outta here. you no- good shit. Felicia is hurling insults at Billy as she tends to blue- collar. Alec and the others drag Billy past Leslie and Jules, who look to Ron, who has been hiding behind them with a hand in front of his face.
ROM: I just had my nose done.
WALLY: You're fired, Billy.
WEHDY: He's bleeding.
FELICIA: Get outta here, Billy. Get outta my life!!!
I BILLY: I shoulda had a vasectomy at birth. You ever have boys, do 'em a favor and get 'em neutered at birth. Knock up some slut and you're the one who's really fucked. Fucked for life. I hate that bitch!!! He pushes his friends away as he lunges into the street to make a grand gesture of marching away. Suddenly blue- collar comes charging out of the doorway and kicks Billy in the back. Billy goes down as Felicia jumps on him.
FELICIA: Goddamn you, Billy. You shit. There is pandemonium as Felicia and Billy pummel each other. Alec grabs Billy, while Kevin and Kirbo restrain R Felicia. As the young couple are being dragged away 2 from each other, suddenly Felicia cries out to,her man.
FELICIA: ( MELTING )
BILLY: ( MELTING )
LESLIE: You just go ahead with your evening with Howie.
JULES: Yes. No matter what he looks like. Leslie glares at Jules, but Wendy starts laughing.
FELICIA: This is all my fault.
BILLY: Ho, you married a loser and you better face it.
FELICIA: Don't say that.
BILLY: Alec's,known it for a long time. Haven't you, Big Al?
ALEC: You're just running away from x responsibility, and it's catching up with you, just like I said it I'll get a job.
FELICIA: I'll get a job.
BILLY: I won't have you working.
ALEC: Listen to me, Billy. There's a hot-shot Korean in town. Big money. He needs a gopher. I don't know, for some reason I think you might be perfect for each other.
FELICIA: Alec. You've been so good to us.
ALEC: But if you blow this one, Billy.
BILLY: I'm not gonna blow this one, Alec I'm gonna do ultimate by ( starting to cry ) I almost lost my wife tonight . and my little baby. Jesus. Felicia starts to cry as she holds him.
LESLIE: Still want to get married?
ALEC: Leslie, that is not a marriage in there. That is a mistake.
LESLIE: And who's this Korean hot-shot?
ALEC: A business acquaintance. She leaves with the coffee.
KEVIN: Speaking of business acquaintances, you still want my extra key?
BLACK HOOKER: Hey, secret love, you want a date What would you say the meaning of life is?
KEVIN: What would you say the meaning of life is?
BLACK HOOKER: Got fifty bucks? I'll show you the meaning of life.
KEVIN: I don't pay for sex.
BLACK HOOKER: Oh, you think if you get some girlfriend, or maybe a wife, you ain't gonna pay? Oh, you'll pay . but you won't ever be sure you're gonna get it. Now with me, you pay, but you get it, and you get it good!
KEVIN: Food for thought. Food for He walks toward his apartment.
R AUDIENCE: Kirbo and Kevin watch.
KEVIN: Not just in Manhattan, Woodman. Kirbo quickly pulls out his camera and snaps a picture of the screen.
KEVIN: You can't keep ringing doorbells and running away, calling her and hanging up. What are you afraid Rejection. Total and devastating. As long as she hasn't rejected me, there's hope.
KIRBO: Rejection. Total and devastating. As long as she hasn't rejected me, there's hope.
KEVIN: I have lived with a secret obsession many years myself. However, I realize the other person has no interest in me so I pursue my career which is going even more Who are you in love with?
KIRBO: Who are you in love with?
KEVIN: I don't have to share everything with you.
KI RBO: Alec has balls. He sees things with his balls. A ball's-eye view so to speak. Having taken their stuff out of the dryer they leave.
KIRBO: 'Fluff and Fold,' buddy. Soon as I get some dough, I'm goin' 'Fluff and Fold.'
KEVIN: You'll go fluff and fold, someday. Whereas I will still be writing obits. I can't even come up with a decent piece for the paper to show my editor.
KIRBO: I can't help you with your writer's block until I see that look in Dale Biberman's eyes. The look that says she knows I'm the one for her.
KEVIN: Kirbo, what about all the other women you were going out with?
KIRBO: They weren't women. They were You'll never catch me making a fool ofmyself over a beautiful woman. I know what they're really made of. Watch this.
KEVIN: You'll never catch me making a fool ofmyself over a beautiful woman. I know what they're really made of. Watch this.
BEAUTIFUL GIRL: Leave me alone.
KEVIN: The defense rests. They disappear into their building.
WENDY: Hi. x
JULES: We came to take you to lunch. La Petite Chateau. One o'clock.
WENDY: I can't leave here and go to La Petite Chateau. Ladies, please, x let's have a little perspective.
LESLIE: Well, we could eat here.
JULES: Campbell's mushroom barley. How They are joined by MYRA, a bag lady, and several other regular patrons.
WENDY: This is Myra. Myra, Jules and Leslie.
LESLIE: How's Howie?
WENDY: I wouldn't say my father is trying to bribe me, but he offered me a Chrysler Le Baron convertible if I'd get engaged to Howie.
JULES: Have you fucked him yet?
WENDY: You haven't? Listen, get engaged. x Get the car. Fuck him and if you don't like it, break the engagement.
JULES: You haven't? Listen, get engaged. x Get the car. Fuck him and if you don't like it, break the engagement.
X: They put their trays down at a table.
JULES: Well, no sense beating around the bush. Wendy, we came to see you because we're both worried about No, Jules, that was the scam that Leslie and I worked out because we were worried about you.
WENDY: No, Jules, that was the scam that Leslie and I worked out because we were worried about you.
JULES: Moi? Your were worried about moi?
LESLIE: We were worried about you and this affair with your boss.
JULES: Forrester is the greatest.
LESLIE: Forrester is married.
JULES: Leslie, this is the Eighties. I bop him for a few years get his job when he gets caught with his hand in the vault. I become a legend do a black mink ad, but get caught in a sex scandal. Retire in massive disgrace but write a huge bestseller and become the star of my own talk show.
WENDY: Silly of us to be concerned.
JULES: And besides, Forrester suggested some fabulous alternatives for my That's another thing. You seem obsessed with this woman's dying. It's creepy.
WENDY: That's another thing. You seem obsessed with this woman's dying. It's creepy.
JULES: Well, it turned out that cremation is almost as expensive as the non- torch method so if I don't find a cheaper solution I'll probably end up.
JULES: Oh, I've got to meet Forrester.
LESLIE: Jules, you haven't touched your Who'd want to? I think this was a wonderful talk, don't you? Nice meeting you, Myra. Jules is gone in a neurotic flurry. Leslie and Wendy are 85 EXT. GEORGETOWN CANAL - DAY 85 Wendy and Leslie walk together.
JULES: Who'd want to? I think this was a wonderful talk, don't you? Nice meeting you, Myra. Jules is gone in a neurotic flurry. Leslie and Wendy are 85 EXT. GEORGETOWN CANAL - DAY 85 Wendy and Leslie walk together.
THRU THRU: 84 84
LESLIE: The senior architect I've been assisting is going to promote me to the design staff.
WENDY: That's so great.
LESLIE: Yeah, it worked out really well.
WENDY: That's great. So I guess that means marriage now, huh?
LESLIE: It scares me. My sister lived with her husband for five years before they got married. And now it's over. They loved each other so much, but somehow it just disappeared.
Â€¢ WENDY: You can't say that. You're not your sister. You and Alec were made for each other.
LESLIE: I love Alec. I do, but I just don't think I'm ready for the big step.
WEND Y: Seen Billy?
LESLIE: I was wondering how long it was going to take until you asked.
WENDY: It's like stopping smoking. I can go as long as I can and then I just have to have a hit.
LESLIE: Alec's got him working for some Korean gangster, and I actually think Billy is doing a great job.
WENDY: Great. Great.
KITCHEN DOOR: A house boy, sensing what's going to happen, ducks back.
BILLY: Ah. I thought you were comin' back Thursday.
VOICES: Excuse me. Sir.?' The CAMERA ( Kirbo ) STOPS as Dale looks up from her con- versation. She is pleasant, but slightly stunned.
DALE: Kirby. How are you? We see Kirbo now, soaking wet and in pain.
KI RBO: I'm obsessed. Thank you very 93 INT. DALE'S CAR - NIGHT ( TWENTY MINUTES LATER ) 93 Dale drives, Kirbo next to her, his bike on the trunk. It has stopped raining.
DALE: r What's going on?
KIRBO: I'm going to be a doctor.
DALE: That's not what's going on. They pull up in front of her building and get out of the Why did you tell me you had to work tonight? Why did you lie?
KIRBO: Why did you tell me you had to work tonight? Why did you lie?
DALE: I didn't want to hurt your I'm obsessed with you, Dale. I have been for four years.
KIRBO: I'm obsessed with you, Dale. I have been for four years.
DALE: But you don't even know me.
KIRBO: I know. But I'm obsessed by my fantasy of you. Dale realizes this man needs some help.
DALE: I'm very average. full of She gestures toward her sloppy bedroom.
DALE: I'm a slob.., can't even make a bed straight. You ready for on a coffee table ) .. I steal People magazine from my dentist's office. She then goes into the tiny kitchen and picks up a large garbage bag.
DALE: Here. Watch. Dale Biberman takes out her own garbage. She opens the apartment door as her roommate, JUDITH, arrives home with a bad cold.
DALE: Here's my roommate, Judith. She hates me.
JUDITH: I hate her. Judith disappears into the bedroom as Dale puts out the garbage. Kirbo sits for a moment alone, stunned. Dale And here's the worst of all. When I first decided to be a doctor, I thought it was because I wanted to serve people. But now, well, I'm beginning to get this funny feeling that what medicine's really all about is money. You want some coffee?
DALE: And here's the worst of all. When I first decided to be a doctor, I thought it was because I wanted to serve people. But now, well, I'm beginning to get this funny feeling that what medicine's really all about is money. You want some coffee?
MIRBO: It's money, isn't it? That's what you're trying to tell me. It's 'cause I don't have any money! Thank you for being so honest. He gets up and leaves.
DALE: 95 EXT. GEORGETOWN CAMPUS - DAY 95 CLOSE ON Billy as he walks across the campus and even- tually stops.
TROY: The man. The myth. The legend. The one and only Billy the Kid! The guys all cheer as they surround Billy.
TROY: Like old times, Billy-Boy.
BILLY: You know I've been thinkin', Troy 6 9 I'd like to get some kind of job maybe on campus. you know work with the students or the fraternity. Maybe coaching or We could use somebody like you around, Billy.
TROY: We could use somebody like you around, Billy.
BILLY: ( ENCOURAGED )
TROY: Yeah. We need somebody to get us some good drugs. Billy realizes there is no place for him here either. He looks up to see Felicia and the baby. He gives the football to Troy and slowly walks across the field.
BILLY: Hi, babe. There is a long pause.
FELICIA: 'Member Ray Slater? He was the guy I was goin' with before I met He came to see me, Billy, and he still wants to marry me. And held take good care of Melody and I could probably get an annulment.
BILLY: He came to see me, Billy, and he still wants to marry me. And held take good care of Melody and I could probably get an annulment.
FELICIA: He came to see me, Billy, and he still wants to marry me. And held take good care of Melody and I could probably get an annulment.
BILLY: Don't give up on me. Please, I know it's been rough on you. But I'll get the right job soon. I'll change. I swear it. No women, no booze. You won't believe how ultimate I'm gonna He holds her and she wants to believe him badly.
KIRBO: I'm your man, Mr. Ho.
KIRBO: I don't feel it has any relevancy in the world I want to go into.
KIRBO: The 'real' world. Besides, did you know that there are more students in law school than there are practicing lawyers?
KIRBO: Hi, Dale.
Â€¢: Kirby. What are you up to?
DALE: Kirby. What are you up to?
KIRBO: I was hand-picked as special attache to Kim Sung Ho. You know, the famous Korean entrepreneur? He quickly holds up a newspaper with Kim on the cover.
DALE: What about medical school?
KIRBO: I have to grab my huge financial opportunities while-I can. It's all about money, isn't it, Dale?
DALE: Well, good luck.
KIRBO: I'm giving a little party Saturday night at Kim's house. ( handing her card ) I'd really like to see you there.
DALE: Well, thank you, Kirby. I'll try. She smiles sweetly and runs off as Kirbo sits back and talks to the female Chauffeur.
KI RBO: She'll be there. You see her face when she saw this car?
CHAUFFEUR: Mr. Ho catches you having a party in his house Saturday night. You'll be out on the street.
KIRBO: He won't be back until Sunday. remember, there's an extra hundred bucks for you and Kenny to shut up.
KIRBO: Fluff and Fold!!!
LESLIE: We'll be right down. Alec comes from the bedroom getting dressed.
ALEC: June first!'
LESLIE: Honey, I just got promoted. I'm going to have a lot more responsibility. I'm sure it's the right time.
ALEC: Looking at my big picture agenda, I want to be playing softball with my firstborn in about four Do you realize that over half the marriages today end in divorce.
LESLIE: Do you realize that over half the marriages today end in divorce.
ALEC: And the other half don't.
LESLIE: My six-year-old niece asked me today why everyone's father doesn't live in a separate house like her father does. I don't want us to become another divorce statistic in Newsweek.
ALEC: Look at my parents. My father may not come home with a raging hard- on, anymore, but they're happy.
LESLIE: Your father sits around playing chess while your mother talks to him constantly. But he's not That's probably why they're happy. ( he grabs her ) Leslie, let's stop living together . get married and start really living together!
ALEC: That's probably why they're happy. ( he grabs her ) Leslie, let's stop living together . get married and start really living together!
LESLIE: Sweetheart, please. Let's not talk about it tonight. This party means a lot to Kirbo. The floor's filthy Just pick a date, any date. She opens the door as he grabs a nearby can of white spray paint, and sprays the floor white again as they back out through the door.
ALEC: Just pick a date, any date. She opens the door as he grabs a nearby can of white spray paint, and sprays the floor white again as they back out through the door.
LESLIE: There are some things we have to work out first.
ALEC: Okay. Okay. Like my mom always says, 'Don't get a hard-on'.
LESLIE: And like my mom always says. 'Marriage makes two people one. But you never know which one.'
ALEC: Yeah, and like my pop says, 'The way to woman's heart is,to saw her in half.'
LESLIE: So, does this mean you're officially engaged?
HOWIE: No. It just means I'm officially thinking about it.
WENDY: No. It just means I'm officially thinking about it.
ALEC: What is this? Howie, didn't you always think women were dying to get married?
HOWIE: Not to me.
KEVIN: Does Alec know you're doing this?
KIRBO: I told him I had Kim's permission. Should I go for the formal'tux, or the velvet smoking jacket, I-do- this -all -the -time look?
KEVIN: You've left school, put yourself into debt, lied to Alec who got you this job in the first place and all for a woman who doesn't seem to be interested in you.
KIRBO: When she sees me in this setting and realizes my potential, which she has always secretly known about me, the veil will be stripped from her eyes and she will give herself to me tonight.
Â€¢: Perhaps in that very bed you are sitting on. Is the cummerbund out of style?
KEVIN: Well, excuse me, buckeroo. But I think you're a fool.
KI RBO: Perhaps, but a well-dressed fool.
KEVIN: holds court for the undergrads.
KEVIN: The best advice I can give you undergrads is to fail. Failure is a virtue in today's society. Human error is a badge of honor. If you're the alcoholic child of a celebrity, you can blame them and earn a year on the best-seller list. If you're a celebrity, your mistake will earn you a People magazine cover. It's post- Watergate morality. Take responsibility for your mistakes and make a quick buck while you're at it.
ALEC: Then Sully snuck the pizza waitress into the showers. They start screaming with laughter.
BILLY: And the fat chick Sandy met on a plane. Alec and me pretended to be renting agents. She wound up taking on the whole house. Everyone laughs as Alec looks to Billy seriously.
Â€¢: And the fat chick Sandy met on a plane. Alec and me pretended to be renting agents. She wound up taking on the whole house. Everyone laughs as Alec looks to Billy seriously.
ALEC: I'm not getting you any more jobs, You know, Al, you're so perfect. Such a young god. I'll bet you were sproutin' pubic hairs at the age of three. Jules redoes Wendy's makeup as Leslie watches.
BILLY: You know, Al, you're so perfect. Such a young god. I'll bet you were sproutin' pubic hairs at the age of three. Jules redoes Wendy's makeup as Leslie watches.
WENDY: Jules, your hands are shaking.
JULES: Thin blood.
LESLIE: How's Forrester? She drops the makeup.
JULES: Oh, shit. Wendy and Leslie are worried.
LESLIE: How's your stepmother?
JULES: Hanging on. the old witch. At least it gives me a chance to funeral-shop. Did I tell you I found this place in California 'The Neptune Society.' They'll wrap her up and throw her to the sharks for five hundred dollars. But I have to ship the body all the way out there. Excuse me. Wendy and Leslie look to each other. Kirbo nervously dials the 'phone.
KIRBO: Ah. by any chance did Dale Biberman get called in on emergency duty tonight?. Ho? He hangs up and tries her home number. It's busy.
Â€¢: Ah. by any chance did Dale Biberman get called in on emergency duty tonight?. Ho? He hangs up and tries her home number. It's busy.
BILLY: So how you doin'? Still living at home?
WENDY: Yeah, how about you?
BILLY: Felicia hasn't kicked me out yet.
WENDY: You been playin' your sax?
BILLY: I hocked it to pay the phone bill. You forgiven me yet for bein' such a horse's ass?
WENDY: There's nothing to forgive. In fact, I should thank you. It helped me grow up a lot and see how stupid I was.
BILLY: How stupid you were to be caring about a loser like me. I agree with you wholeheartedly. They both pause for a beat.
WENDY: You have a lot of talent, Billy.
BILLY: So you still a virgin?
9 WENDY: That's none of your business. Wendy quickly goes back into the house. Billy spits at the moon.
KIRBO: Emergency break in!. Operator! . That's right. What do you mean she won't release the phone??? Did you tell her I'm giving a party for her???
ALEC: Quiet. Big Al has an announcement. Everyone more or less quiets down. Kevin TURNS DOWN the STEREO, but not without SCRATCHING the record.
ALEC: On June first. Leslie will do me the long-awaited honor of becoming my bride. You're all invited. Everyone rushes to Leslie, who is stunned.
LESLIE: Alec, you're drunk. Alec is already accepting congratulations, and passing out cigarettes like cigars, as Leslie grabs him.
LESLIE: Alec, may I speak to you please. She leads him toward the kitchen as he shouts back:
D: ST. ELMO'S FIRE - Rev. 10/1/84 75.
0 ALEC: Hey, Howie. how 'bout we make it a double wedding? They pass Kirbo who dashes out of the kitchen franti- cally. He finds Wendy.
KI RBO: Can I use your car?
WENDY: Wendy, please, this is the most important thing in my life.
KIRBO: Wendy, please, this is the most important thing in my life.
WENDY: It's brand new.
KIRBO: Trust me.
LESLIE: You just want a yearly Christmas card with the Newberrys in front of the fireplace..
ALEC: You're just afraid to commit.
LESLIE: You don't have to slow down your career to help raise them.
ALEC: Jesus Christ, will you just for once not make the reason you won't marry me your fucking career!
LESLIE: All right then, what will we do about your extra-curricular love What extra-curricular love life?
ALEC: What extra-curricular love life?
LESLIE: ALEC A
ALEC A: He dashes back into the
ALEC: What'd you tell her?. Little buddy. little traitor. Huh, what'd you tell her?
LESLIE: He told me nothing. It was just a hunch. until now. Alec filled with guilt and remorse becomes angrier. Alec realizes that everybody in the house is watching him. He must save face.
ALEC: Leslie, I want you out of the apartment tonight. Alec marches out the door. The place is a wreck.
BILLY: Hey. everything's cool. It's not a party 'til something gets broken.
KI RBO: You better get off the phone and open this door! Suddenly the window above him opens and Dale's roommate Judith appears angrily.
JUDITH: Are you the maniac trying to cut in on my line?
KIRBO: Where is Dale?
JUDITH: She went skiing.
KIRBO: What???. Where???
JUDITH: Why should I tell you?
KIRBO: Because I'm not responsible for what I'll do to you if you don't.
BLACK HOOKER: .You think you ain't gonna pay? You'll pay.
LESLIE: I haven't been here for a long It's still the same. Small and ugly. but then again it's small and ugly. Are you sure we shouldn't find you some nice lady-like hotel?
KEVIN: It's still the same. Small and ugly. but then again it's small and ugly. Are you sure we shouldn't find you some nice lady-like hotel?
LESLIE: No, I'll be fine here for tonight 0 as long as I'm not putting you or Kirbo to any trouble.
KEVIN: That's not how you're supposed to ask. You're supposed to be a young lady who is very impressed with. my mind. Having come from a deep Hungarian film and getting cozy over a brandy, she says. 'Is that. a coffin.?' And, then I say, 'Yes, it's my coffin' . 'Your coffin,' she would gasp, her interest in me growing by leaps and bounds. Then'I would sit back stroking her arm and say 'Yes, I figured we're going to spend a long time in the ground together so I've made friends with it. I've gotten drunk on it. rolled joints on it . Even made love on it many times!' It's a prop for affect.
LESLIE: Does it work?
KEVIN: How would I know?
LESLIE: Well you better not let Jules see it. She'll steal it for her stepmother. Are these relatives of yours?
E: distinguished family.
KEVIN: No, that's more effect. He opens a straw box, obviously filled with his most personal possessions and extricates a photograph of a very ordinary family.
KEVIN: You remember my family.
LESLIE: So I've wandered into a real woman trap here, haven't I?
KEVIN: Except you're the first woman I've ever been able to get up here. And I've blown all my props already. So how about some brandy? Kevin searches for clean glasses in the debris that passes for a kitchen, Leslie finds photos and political cartoons in his straw box. Eventually, she finds a photo of herself, and then another followed by dozens more. Kevin has an entire homage to her in his secret stash. He comes back with the brandy to find her looking at the photos.
LESLIE: Am I part of your props?
KEVIN: ( PAINFULLY; SWEETLY )
R: Alec was the first. There were other guys, in high school, boys but he was the first love of my life. I always wondered if Alec and I hadn't ended up in the same dorm well, I guess I would have just found someone else. And so would he.
LESLIE: Alec was the first. There were other guys, in high school, boys but he was the first love of my life. I always wondered if Alec and I hadn't ended up in the same dorm well, I guess I would have just found someone else. And so would he.
KEVIN: Alec had the luck of geography. Whatever we say about Alec we'll regret tomorrow.
LESLIE: What do you think about our relationship. as an outsider?
KEVIN: Oooo dangerous question.
LESLIE: And I think the reason I'm not interested in other women. is 'cause I.
KEVIN: And I think the reason I'm not interested in other women. is 'cause I.
LESLIE: ( tears of joy ) Kevin. All this time right in front of us. How could I have been so blind?
KEVIN: Leslie, we won't even remember this tomorrow.
LESLIE: It is tomorrow. There is a mad moment of hesitation and then Kevin and Leslie smash into each other's arms.
S: It is tomorrow. There is a mad moment of hesitation and then Kevin and Leslie smash into each other's arms.
KEVIN: I love you. I've always loved They kiss madly, passionately. They fall to the floor in a frenzy. Leslie pulls Kevin's hair.
KEVIN: Aaaaah. Ouch. ( as she stops ) No. I love it. I love it!!! Leslie grabs onto the large throw rug as they roll around the floor. Somehow as they roll and turn, the rug gets wrapped around them. Leslie tears at his shirt, as he yanks her sweater off. Kevin fights madly with the back of Leslie's bra. He is going berserk trying to find the No. it's in front. With a flick of her hand she undoes her bra and opens up the wonders of paradise to her old buddy. They kiss madly again as they roll in the rug.
LESLIE: No. it's in front. With a flick of her hand she undoes her bra and opens up the wonders of paradise to her old buddy. They kiss madly again as they roll in the rug.
JULES: Which one is yours? I always So do I. You wanna go someplace? He points to a house. Jules stops the Jeep.
BILLY: So do I. You wanna go someplace? He points to a house. Jules stops the Jeep.
JULES: Do I. I've had a shit day.
BILLY: I've had a shit year.
JULES: Where do you want to go?
BILLY: The bars are all closed. How 'bout your place?
JULES: We're going to my place. Good. She STARTS up the JEEP.
BILLY: Jules, you've really grown up into a fine-looking woman.
JULES: I don't feel very fine-looking.
BILLY: I've been meaning to ask you something all night. What do you have on under that skirt?
JULES: You should know.
Â€¢ BILLY: Come on Gimme some of those beautiful lips. Jules needs some attention. The hot couple kiss. He immediately goes for the gold.
JULES: Billy. enough!
BILLY: Who says?
JULES: I say.
BILLY: Yeah, well, I bet you really won't have so much to say with me in your mouth. He kisses her wildly as she pushes him away aggressively.
JULES: I'm serious, Billy. No!!! He grabs the keys from the ignition as the CAR DIES.
JULES: Holding her off with one hand, he shoves the keys into his underwear and then sits back grinning.
BILLY: Come and get 'em.
JULES: You shit!!! She attacks him, biting his hands, his neck and his chest. Billy shrieks with laughter and pain.
BILLY: ( ECHO ) ( CONTINUED )
J: ST. ELMO'S FIRE - Rev. 10/11/84 82. s
JULES: I really needed you tonight.
BILLY: Nell, just get back in the Jeep and assume the missionary You break my heart. You break everybody's heart. She drives off in the Jeep. Billy fumbles with his pants and then turns toward his house. Felicia, holding their baby, stands watching from the porch. Obviously having seen most of this, she silently goes back into the house,. locks the door and turns out the light. Alone, drunk and bewildered, Billy starts moving away from the house real- izing he has no place to go.
JULES: You break my heart. You break everybody's heart. She drives off in the Jeep. Billy fumbles with his pants and then turns toward his house. Felicia, holding their baby, stands watching from the porch. Obviously having seen most of this, she silently goes back into the house,. locks the door and turns out the light. Alone, drunk and bewildered, Billy starts moving away from the house real- izing he has no place to go.
KIRBO: Shit. Goddammitt.
KIRBO: Heater. Where's the defroster??? He rams and jams every button and knob in sight as he weaves dangerously on the freeway. Eventually one of the levers comes off in his hand.
KIRBO: Dear Mr. Iacoccoa. I recently had the misfortune of using one of your, so-called, new luxury cars in an emergency situation. So much for American enterprise!
KI RBO: Is Dale Biberman in there?
KIRBO: Kirby Kreager! And who the hell are you? The door swings open and there stands GUY, a handsome thirty-year-old wrapped in a blanket. Dale comes from the bedroom, fastening a man's robe and staring at Kirbo in disbelief.
DALE: Kirby? What are you doing here? His entire world has collapsed. He can't swear, shout or cry he can only dash toward the car frantically. Falling in the snow once or twice, he eventually jumps into the car and tries to peel out, but it just spins in the snow. Meanwhile Guy has put on heavy boots and comes running out to the car where Kirbo stands on the gas to no avail.
DALE: Kirby, stop. Come inside. He ignores her maniacally as he keeps desperately trying to get out of there.
GUY: You've got no skid chains or snow tires. You've got no traction. Kirbo ignores them.
DALE: Kirby, please!
GUY: You-'re not gonna get out of here tonight. You better come back 1.28 CONTINUED: 128 I'll stay in the car.
KIRBO: I'll stay in the car.
GUY: ( yelling at Dale ) He wants to stay in the car.
DALE: He'll freeze!!! She begins pulling on her boots as Guy tries to reason with Kirby.
GUY: People have died out here.
KIRBO: Leave me alone. I'm not your Dale has joined them.
DALE: By driving up here, you've made us responsible for you. Now come inside.
DALE: Your clothes should be dry in a few hours.
KIRBO: He's a doctor, isn't he?
DALE: Here are some pajamas.
KIRBO: You expect me to wear his pajamas?
DALE: We'll talk in the morning. She joins Guy, in the bedroom and closes the door. Kirbo is left with the pajamas and his desperate anguish.
KEVIN: ALEC ( O.S. ) No, it's Alec. Kevin and Leslie look at each other frantically.
KEVIN: ( WHISPERING )
ALEC: I'm only gonna ask you this once. Did you tell Leslie about my screwing around?
KEVIN: 133 INT. LIVING ROOM 133 Alec has found a beer.
ALEC: I believe you. I want you to know that I believe you and, Kev, I'm sorry I hit you. Shit, how'd she find out? How long has she known? I've been thinking all night about school. How sex was always a barometer,'especially, at the fraternity. The more women you got, the more of a man you were. or thought you were. I thought I was.
KEVIN: Ah. I kind of have company.
ALEC: Oh Jesus. I'm sorry. I never thought. Who is it?
KEVIN: That fat chick from the party? You and the fat chick.
ALEC: That fat chick from the party? You and the fat chick.
KEVIN: Alec, I'll call you later. Alec capitulates and leaves the apartment. Kevin relaxes just as Alec pops back in.
ALEC: Just tell me if it's the fat The bedroom door opens and Leslie appears wrapped in a No. No. No. wait a minute. I don't believe it. This could not be real. There is no way this is happening.
ALEC: No. No. No. wait a minute. I don't believe it. This could not be real. There is no way this is happening.
LESLIE: It happened, Alec.
ALEC: Not Kevin. Little fuckin' Kevin. My little buddy. No way, Jose.
LESLIE: He didn't do it alone, Alec.
Â€¢: takes a stand.
KEVIN: I know that if we fight, you're going to win. But I'm warning you, I will use every bone in my body, every lamp in this room to make sure I inflict as much damage as possible on you before you bring me down. Kevin prepares for the fight.
ALEC: You're both pathetic. I don't want to see either one of you again, ever. You understand me? You see me on the street, you see me at St. Elmo's, just pretend you don't know me. On his exit, Alec takes a lamp and throws it against a Woody Allen photograph on the wall. Kevin and Leslie look at each other, uncertain of what they have done.
Â€¢: 134 EXT. GEORGETOWN - SUN 134 135 EXT. KIM SUNG HO'S TOWNHOUSE 135 A taxi delivers Mr. Ho to his front door.
WENDY: He took my new car.
0 GUY: It's thawing. and the roads look pretty clear.
DALE: I'm sorry. I had no idea it had gone this far.
KIRBO: I gave up school. and my job at St. Elmo's. and you never even knew about it. It's kind of funny, isn't it? Dale sits down next to him.
DALE: The reason I didn't know. is because all of this happened
R: between you and you. I could never participate because I never knew what was expected of me. Love isn't like this, Kirby. It's mutual and reciprocal. Guy yells to them from outside.
DALE: Drive carefully. Guy gets out of the car.
GUY: Wait a minute. I've got to get a picture of you old college 0 He goes into the cabin. Dale sees Kixbo's pain.
DALE: I don't really know you well. but you seem like a fine person .. and I want you to know that I'm flattered by all of this and deep down, I'm sure for a long time, I'll wonder if maybe this somehow isn't my loss. She kisses him gently on the cheek. He is about to sink into more pain when suddenly he grabs Dale and kisses her with all the passion he has for her. When he releases her she is dazed. Something has definitely happened.
GUY: They turn to face Guy and his Polaroid camera. After he takes their photo, he hands it to Kirbo who hands it to Dale'and quickly gets into the car.
GUY: Aren't you going to wait for it to develop? Kirbo drives off quickly.
REARVIEW MIRROR: Dale gets smaller and smaller.
MIRROR: She is smaller and smaller.
KIRBO: A kind of win fills his senses.
Â€¢: 143 CONTINUED: 143
WEHDY: Dad, I have my own work, and I want to get my own apartment.
MR. BEAMISH: All right, keep your job 'til you get pregnant. Howie is a fine boy. You don't need your own I don't love Howie, Dad. I love MR. BEAMISH Billy on the roof? Let me tell you something, he's a drunk and a lowlife. How could you love such a person?
WEHDY: I don't love Howie, Dad. I love MR. BEAMISH Billy on the roof? Let me tell you something, he's a drunk and a lowlife. How could you love such a person?
MR. BEAMISH: Billy on the roof? Let me tell you something, he's a drunk and a lowlife. How could you love such a person?
WEHDY: He's talented and confused and he's not a lowlife. And I love him because he's alive! He's the most alive person I've ever known.
MR. BEAMISH: When he looks at you, all he sees is U money. He doesn't give a damn about you. Wendy has started to cry.
MR. BEAMISH: I'm warning you, young lady. You marry him no 'Card-A-Terias' ! Wendy is overcome with grief.
WEHDY: I hate you, Dad. I really hate you now. She rushes from the counter grabbing her coat.
Â€¢: SHOTS of lunchtime in D.C.: Clerks, pages, government employees of all description leave work and venture forth for the lunch ritual.
MR. BEAMISH: Some place this is. Your car I got a personal letter from Lee lacocco. they fixed everything for nothing.
WENDY: I got a personal letter from Lee lacocco. they fixed everything for nothing.
MR. BEAMISH: Good. so you like the car?
WENDY: It's a great car, Dad, but I can't keep it. I don't feel right about driving a car like that and working with people who can't afford to eat. She finds the keys and hands them to him.
MR. BEAMISH: Keep the car. you and Howie are going to need it.
WENDY: I'm giving Howie back, too.
MR. BEAMISH: Wendy, listen to me. You think I wanted to marry your mother? I was pressured into it. She was pressured into it.
WENDY: I don't love Howie.
MR. BEAMISH: Wendy keeps running. A BAG LADY from the soup kitchen, crosses her path.
BAG LADY: Hi, Wendy.
A: Wendy ignores her as she keeps running. Mr. Beamish suddenly gets a cramp in his leg.
MR. BEAMISH: Wendy. Wait. Oh, my God, my Wendy continues running and crying as YOUNG STREET TOUGHS run past her.
WEND Y: That's my father. You leave him alone. that's my father! She runs over to them and shoos the Toughs away. Still crying, she guides her father toward a stoop.
WENDY: Sit down, Daddy. sit down. They sit down, both still very emotional. After a moment, Mr. Beamish takes a torn greeting card from his pocket. It has a very sexy woman on it.
MR. BEAMISH: See this. A feminist came into the Pennsylvania Avenue store this morning called me a 'sexist' and a 'pig' and tore the card up. I said 'Listen, we got naked men on cards, too, with their pee-pees hanging out. It's fair! We got men and we got women!'
WENDY: Daddy, I'm sorry. I'm sorry I said I hated you.
MR. BEAMISH: That's okay. I'm sorry about Howie. You don't have to marry anybody you don't want to marry and if you want to move out, well, move out. But listen. He starts to get up with her help.
MR. BEAMISH: .. Don't judge your mother and me so hard. and the way we raised you and your sisters. There's no training to be a parent, you know. You're learning every day on the job. They start back toward the restaurant.
WENDY: There's no training to be me either, Dad. I'm learning on the job, too. He hugs her as they walk back into the restaurant.
LESLIE: As she picks up the broken pieces, the door opens from the bedroom. Alec appears, looking horrible, in his I especially took off work because I thought you wouldn't be here.
LESLIE: I especially took off work because I thought you wouldn't be here.
ALEC: I'm sick.
LESLIE: What's wrong?
ALEC: Just sickness. ( noticing an album ) .. Hey, you can't take The Pretenders' first album. That's I bought it.
LESLIE: I bought it.
ALEC: You did not!!!
LESLIE: I'm taking 'Thriller' and Mahler's Kevin is so fond of Mahler.
ALEC: Kevin is so fond of Mahler.
LESLIE: I've moved in with Jules.
ALEC: How nice. Roomies again.
LESLIE: You got those for me on Valentine's Day. When there were still valentines around here.
ALEC: You ran out on this relationship. You take the consequences.
LESLIE: I didn't run out on anything. You ran out.
ALEC: You fucked Kevin!
LESLIE: You fucked manyl
Â€¢: You fucked manyl
ALEC: Nameless, faceless manyl
LESLIE: ( SARCASTICALLY )
ALEC: You're not taking The Police so just forget it!
ALEC: No more albums! That's it. Get your clothes and give me the keys. Leslie reluctantly hands him the keys and moves toward the bedroom closet slowly.
LESLIE: I don't believe this is happening to us. Alec sits down angrily on the new sofa, clutching his Wasted love. I wish I could get it all back.
ALEC: Wasted love. I wish I could get it all back.
AFTERNOON: Dealing with her emotions, she drives Jules' Jeep through the Georgetown streets. The back of the Jeep is filled with her clothes, etc.
LESLIE: You did it!!!
LESLIE: God, this is so exciting. Your first byline.
KEVIN: I'm sure I'll be back doing obits Oh, no. You're going to really attract some attention with this.
LESLIE: Oh, no. You're going to really attract some attention with this.
KEVIN: Sort of. Leslie, I couldn't write anything of any meaning until you. He kisses her warmly.
LESLIE: He aggressively gets on top of her, and feeling the excitement and the champagne kisses her madly. The front door opens and Jules appears breathless.
JULES: Don't you two ever use a bed? Leaving the door wide open, she races through the apart- ment. Kevin continues to madly attack Leslie when Ron, carrying packages, arrives at his door across the hall. He and Kevin exchange a look as-Ron goes inside.
LESLIE: Let me show Jules your piece.
LESLIE: Kevin has his first byline. Jules is so stoked she can't focus.
JULES: Wonderful. Brilliant. Ha ha. 'Tract Housing in Maryland'.
LESLIE: No, it's the other piece. Jules.
JULES: Got to fly. Forrester, the magnificent animal, is waiting. Did the hospital call? Is my stepmonster dead yet?
LESLIE: Jules, I'd like to meet him.
JULES: I'll have him wave up to you. She is out the door in a flash as Leslie moves toward - the window.
LESLIE: Doesn't she seem out of control to you?
KEVIN: Since the day I met her. They look out of the window.
KEVIN: Who's that?
LESLIE: Jules' boss and lover. International banking seems to be getting sexier.
KEVIN: Speaking of which. As she closes the window, Kevin attacks her again.
LESLIE: Kevin, I've been thinking.
KEVIN: Me, too, and I don't like to count my cornish hens before they hatch, but I do think I'll be getting a raise. And I was thinking we could get a place together.
LESLIE: I know it's fast. But I also know I love you.
KEVIN: I know it's fast. But I also know I love you.
LESLIE: I don't think you do love me.
KEVIN: I mean we love each other as friends. But. Kevin, you were sitting on all these incredible feelings. all tied up in that box with my pictures in desperate need of a love affair. And me. well, I needed to break the Alec habit. and it's only natural I would turn to you in my confusion. But this doesn't feel real. It feels manufactured.
LESLIE: I mean we love each other as friends. But. Kevin, you were sitting on all these incredible feelings. all tied up in that box with my pictures in desperate need of a love affair. And me. well, I needed to break the Alec habit. and it's only natural I would turn to you in my confusion. But this doesn't feel real. It feels manufactured.
KEVIN: It's me, isn't it?
LESLIE: Are you kidding? You're a little â€¢ miracle.
KEVIN: But not a big miracle like Alec.
LESLIE: Oh, Alec was the big miracle for a long time. But I think I'd like to try life without any miracles for a while. Kevin realizes how serious Leslie is.
KEVIN: Well, having your first byline, and losing the love of your life in the same night has a certain 'The Gods must be laughing at me' feeling.
LESLIE: I'm not the love of your life.
KEVIN: Who says?
LESLIE: I say.
KEVIN: But you're a girl, what do you Leslie embraces him with deep friendship.
R: You know they're totally irrational and crazy and absurd and. but .1 guess we keep going through it because, uh, most of us need the 152 EXT. MOVIE THEATER - NIGHT 152 Kevin and Kirbo walk away from the theater advertising the "WOODY ALLEN FESTIVAL."
KI RBO: I don't think I need the eggs anymore. Dale Biberman gave me enough cholesterol for a lifetime. You were right all along. Love I've had second thoughts. Intimacy is dangerous and shattering. but ultimately necessary.
KEVIN: I've had second thoughts. Intimacy is dangerous and shattering. but ultimately necessary.
KIRBO: But, Kevin, I used to wait outside her house,. ring the bell and then when she'd come to the window I'd run away. Just to get a glimpse of her.
KEVIN: The night Leslie gave me the kiss- off, I fucked a black hooker three Not Naomi, from our corner?
KIRBO: Not Naomi, from our corner?
KEVIN: Naomi from our corner.
KIRBO: I think you better go to the doctor and get some shots.
KEVIN: I used a rubber. She put it on me with her mouth.
Â€¢: 153 EXT. ST. ELMO'S - NIGHT 153 They stop as they reach St. Elmo's. Looking inside, they see Alec at his usual table.
KI RBO: I always thought we'd be friends Forever got a lot shorter suddenly. They move on, passing a sign on the door: "WAITER WARTED." Kevin points to it.
KEVIN: Forever got a lot shorter suddenly. They move on, passing a sign on the door: "WAITER WARTED." Kevin points to it.
KIRBO: No, as soon as I get back in school, I'm going to work part- time for a law firm. Did you know there are as many people in law school as there are practicing Sounds familiar.
KEVIN: Sounds familiar.
KIRBO: How'd she put the rubber on with her mouth?
GENTLEMAN: Yes, may I help you?
LESLIE: I want to see Forrester Davidson I am Forrester Davidson Jr. Leslie is shocked and even more confused.
GENTLEMAN: I am Forrester Davidson Jr. Leslie is shocked and even more confused.
LESLIE: Well, there must be some mistake. I've come to see Julianna van Patten and they told me she doesn't work here anymore.
ALEC: Did you forget one of your albums?
LESLIE: I'm sorry to bother you here. It's Jules. After she left for work this morning, the finance company came and took away all her furniture, her Jeep, everything they could get their hands on. I couldn't reach her so I finally went over to her office. Alec she was fired three weeks ago! All this time, she's been pretending to go to work every day , and pretending to be still having this affair with her boss. And she's been doing a lot of coke .. Well, anyway, I confronted her at the apartment, and at first she denied everything, but then she went crazy and now she's locked herself in the apartment and she won't let me back in. I'm really worried about her. Alec hesitates angrily.
LESLIE: Alec, please. I need your help.
LATER: Alec knocks on the door with Leslie.
ALEC: Jules, open the door. Leslie puts her key in the door.
ALEC: Jules, remember my junior year when I went cold turkey on cigarettes? You sat up with me all night in the commons room feeding me emergency carrots.? No answer.
LESLIE: Jules, if you don't let us in, we're going to have to call the police. There is a beat and then Jules speaks from the depths of JULES ( O.S. ) I'll throw myself out the window before they get through the door.
LESLIE: Not my greatest ploy.
ALEC: Jules, remember the time I flunked art history and I was trying to drink myself to death. Kevin and Kirbo come dashing up the stairs breathlessly.
KIRBO: How is she?
LESLIE: She just threatened to throw herself out the window. Kevin and Alec have a moment of awkwardness.
LESLIE: The fire escape!
ALEC: Jules, what are you doing? You'll He stops.
KEVI N: To death. Exactly! The three young men start tearing at the bars frantically.
LESLIE: Jules, you're really scaring me 166 EXT. JULES' FIRE ESCAPE - LATE AFTERNOON 166 Alec, Kevin and Kirbo cannot budge the bars.
KEVIN: The whole country is.falling apart, but these five bars are made We need something that cuts through metal.
ALEC: We need something that cuts through metal.
KEVIN: Or an experienced thief.
KIRBO: I'll find Billy. Kirbo dashes down the fire escape.
KEVIN: I was kidding.
KIRBO: Billy's working at the big Chevron station on Michigan. He must have a hacksaw or something. Kirbo takes off on his bike as Alec looks at Kevin.
ALEC: Billy is working in a gas He needed the money. Suddenly, Alec and Kevin become aware that they are I saw your article.
KEVIN: He needed the money. Suddenly, Alec and Kevin become aware that they are I saw your article.
ALEC: I saw your article.
KEVIN: Yeah, well, yesterday's editorial achievement is today's garbage wrapper, right.? Kevin tries to laugh charmingly. Alec tries to laugh along with him, but suddenly rage returns.
ALEC: You little shit!!! He grabs Kevin. Kevin tries to fight back, but Alec is so overpowering he pushes Kevin up to the railing of the fire escape, and then pushes him over. Kevin hangs upside down as Alec holds him by his legs. Dozens of scraps of paper fall from his pocket. Leaning out the apartment hallway window, Leslie sees Alec, no!!!
LESLIE: Alec, no!!!
RON: What's happening???
KEVIN: My notes!
ALEC: You won't need any more notes on the meaning of life.
KEVIN: ( upside-down,
STRAINING ): I'm kinda betting on you not doing it, Al. think of your political Leslie runs into the alley underneath them.
LESLIE: Alec, stop Iit! She frantically starts climbing the fire escape.
LESLIE: BACK TO ALEC AND KEVIN After all I've done for you.
ALEC: After all I've done for you.
KEVIN: I feel I've done a lot for you, too, Al. so pull me up and we'll call it even.
ALEC: What you did for me was take the woman I was going to marry. The woman he was going to marry arrives frantically onto their landing. She struggles with Alec.
LESLIE: Alec, stop it right now! Below them, Billy and Kirbo pull up in a Chevron tow truck. Billy, wearing Chevron coveralls, jumps out with an acetylene torch in hand, shouting.
BILLY: Looks pretty ultimate up there.
KEVIN: You think this is helping Jules? With Kevin's life still in his hands, he suddenly remembers Jules.
LESLIE: Are you all right? Kirbo tries to get the dolly up the fire escape with Hey! Help. Kevin goes down the fire escape to help him, leaving Alec and Leslie alone. Leslie kneels by the window with her hands on the iron bars and speaks to Jules.
KIRBO: Hey! Help. Kevin goes down the fire escape to help him, leaving Alec and Leslie alone. Leslie kneels by the window with her hands on the iron bars and speaks to Jules.
LESLIE: Oh, my God. Jules, please, it's so cold.
ALEC: Very noble how you ran up here to save your lover.
LESLIE: He's not my lover. Jules, listen.
ALEC: I have never lied to you once since the day I met you. you cocky shithead.
LESLIE: I have never lied to you once since the day I met you. you cocky shithead.
LESLIE: Hang on, Jules. We all love you. She has been holding onto the bars with her bare-hands, but the bitter cold makes her wince as she removes her hands. Alec is overwhelmed with feelings as he takes her hands and holds them to his mouth, breathing warm breath onto them. Much emotion passes between them.
LESLIE: Your breath, your breath is so Leslie, I'm sorry. I'm so profoundly sorry. Kirbo and Kevin arrive. Billy races down the alley.
KIRBO: Blowtorch, anyone?
ALEC: Give it to me.
KEVIN: Do not hand him a blowtorch! Kevin takes the torch and goes for the bars. SPARKS and fire fly. Suddenly there is a PHENOMENAL POUNDING from inside the apartment at Jules' front door. It stops everyone on the fire escape.
BILLY: ( FRIENDLY )
LESLIE: You want some coffee, Ron? Ron enters tentatively and joins them as JULES and BILLY start SHOUTING and LAUGHING LOUDER.
RON: You know, until today I thought gay people were nuts.
WIDER ANGLE: REVEALS it's Wendy's apartment. It is partially painted and a large ladder stands in the room. A small. wing chair has fabric swatches on it. Cartons, books, etc. Wendy sits on the floor watching Billy.
WEND Y: Then what happened?
BILLY: That was it. We came out of the bedroom and had coffee with You saved her life.
WEND Y: You saved her life.
BILLY: Let's not get dramatic.
WENDY: So, when did you get so sane?
BILLY: When I realized how insane I've been all this time tryin' to be like Alec and Leslie. and you and Kevin. I'm not part of this post-college Georgetown life; marriage and jobs. Felicia and Melody'll be better off without me.
WENDY: Did she get remarried already?
BILLY: Three or four weeks.
WENDY: I'll tell you what's great. Last night I woke up in the middle of the night and made myself a peanut butter and jelly sandwich. and you know it was my kitchen, and my refrigerator and My apartment . and it was the best peanut butter and jelly sandwich I've ever had in my life. They chuckle together and then they become more serious.
WENDY: So you're goin', huh.? She picks up his sax and blows a few comic notes.
BILLY: So, are you still a virgin?
WENDY: Why is my sexual status so important to you?
BILLY: Have I abused our relationship too much? Or could I be so bold. as to ask you for a going-away present.? Wendy is moved.
ALEC: Need someone to blow on your hands? She smiles, but shows him her gloves. As she searches for change in her pockets, Alec stops her and puts his own coins in the machine. He presses buttons as he Did you know that I.always wanted to make you coffee? I tried once when you were in the shower but it didn't turn out right, so I threw it out and cleaned everything up so you wouldn't know. I don't like doing things I'm not good at like making coffee and saying I'm sorry. He looks at her sincerely as he hands her the plastic cup from the machine.
ALEC: Did you know that I.always wanted to make you coffee? I tried once when you were in the shower but it didn't turn out right, so I threw it out and cleaned everything up so you wouldn't know. I don't like doing things I'm not good at like making coffee and saying I'm sorry. He looks at her sincerely as he hands her the plastic cup from the machine.
ALEC: Leslie, I'm sorry. They exchange a tender glance, and then Leslie takes a sip from the steaming cup.
LESLIE: Alec, this is soup.
ALEC: This is soup. Alec's nervousness turns to embarrassment as they both start to laugh. Old feelings surge.
LESLIE: This is soup. Alec's nervousness turns to embarrassment as they both start to laugh. Old feelings surge.
LESLIE: I love you. They look at each other for a moment.
LESLIE: We need time.
ALEC: I know.
KI RBO: The bus is leaving. Alec and Leslie Join him and they quickly move to where Jules. Kevin and Wendy are saying goodbye to Billy who has his suitcase and sax. A bus waits.
JULES: 'Bye, baby. She hugs him expansively. Billy next kisses Leslie and shakes hands with the guys at the same time. Wendy waits until last and then they embrace emotionally.
WENDY: Go ultimate. Billy smiles at her as she fights tears.
BILLY: I'll keep in touch.
WENDY: ( LAUGHING )
HIS FRIENDS: watch him pull away.
BUS: As it pulls backward, we can see Billy with his friend's reflections on the bus's windshield SUPERIMPOSED OVER his. The bus's headlights flare INTO the CAMERA. The images of all of them mix with the white, hot GLARE SUPERIMPOSED OVER this, for a brief second we see IMAGES of them all from past, from school, from St. Elmo's, ,etc. The SCREEN GOES totally WHITE with incandescent brilliance as we
WIDER SHOT: Coming upon St. F'1mo's, they stop. Looking,in the They see their old tables filled with younger students, led by Claton, the undergrad.
