OF THE: Lawrence Kasdan
JEDI: Lawrence Kasdan
SHUTTLE CAPTAIN: our approach. Deactivate the security shield. DEATH STAR CONTROLLER ( filtered VO ) The security deflector shield will be deactivated when we have confirmation of your code transmission. Stand by. You are clear to SHUTTLE CAPTAIN 3 INT DEATH STAR - CONTROL ROOM Operators move about among the control panels. A SHIELD OPERATOR hits switches beside a large screen, on which is a display of the Death Star, the moon Endor, and a bright web delineating the invisible deflector shield. A control officer rushes over to the shield operator.
SHUTTLE CAPTAIN: 3 INT DEATH STAR - CONTROL ROOM Operators move about among the control panels. A SHIELD OPERATOR hits switches beside a large screen, on which is a display of the Death Star, the moon Endor, and a bright web delineating the invisible deflector shield. A control officer rushes over to the shield operator.
OFFICER: The control officer moves to a view port and watches as the Imperial shuttle lands in the massive docking bay. A squad of Imperial stormtroopers moves into formation before the craft.
OPERATOR: The control officer moves to a view port and watches as the Imperial shuttle lands in the massive docking bay. A squad of Imperial stormtroopers moves into formation before the craft.
JERJERROD: back on The commander turns ashen and begins to shake.
VADER: back on The commander turns ashen and begins to shake.
JERJERROD: JERJERROD ( aghast ) The Emperor's coming here?
VADER: JERJERROD ( aghast ) The Emperor's coming here?
JERJERROD: JERJERROD ( aghast ) The Emperor's coming here?
VADER: JERJERROD ( aghast ) The Emperor's coming here?
JERJERROD: JERJERROD ( aghast ) The Emperor's coming here?
VADER: JERJERROD ( aghast ) The Emperor's coming here?
VADER: apparent lack of progress.
JERJERROD: I am.
VADER: I am.
THREEPIO: poor Chewbacca never returned from this awful place. Artoo whistles timidly.
THREEPIO: Jabba the Hutt, you'd probably short-circuit. The two droids fearfully approach the massive gate to the palace.
THREEPIO: 6 EXT JABBA'S PALACE - GATE Threepio looks around for some kind of signaling device, then timidly knocks on the iron door. THREEPIO ( instantly ) There doesn't seem to be anyone there. Let's go back and tell Master A small hatch in the middle of the door opens and a spidery mechanical arm, with a large electronic eyeball on the end, pops out and inspects the two droids.
STRANGE VOICE: Threepio points to Artoo, then to himself.
THREEPIO: Threepio points to Artoo, then to himself.
THREEPIO: Artoo Detoowha bo Seethreepiowha ey toota odd mischka Jabba du Hutt. The eye looks from one robot to the other, there is a laugh then the eye zips back into the door. The hatch slams shut. Artoo beeps his Artoo beeps his reluctance as Threepio turns to leave. Suddenly the massive door starts to rise with a horrific metallic SCREECH. The robots turn back and face an endless black cavity. The droids look at one another, afraid to enter. Artoo starts forward into the gloom. Threepio rushes after his stubby companion. The door lowers noisily behind them.
THREEPIO: Artoo beeps his reluctance as Threepio turns to leave. Suddenly the massive door starts to rise with a horrific metallic SCREECH. The robots turn back and face an endless black cavity. The droids look at one another, afraid to enter. Artoo starts forward into the gloom. Threepio rushes after his stubby companion. The door lowers noisily behind them.
THREEPIO: rush into all this. Artoo continues down the corridor, with Threepio following.
THREEPIO: 7 INT JABBA'S PALACE - HALLWAY The door slams shut with a loud crash that echoes throughout the dark passageway. The frightened robots are met by two giant, green GAMORREAN GUARDS, who fall in behind them. Threepio glances quickly back at the two lumbering brutes, then back to Artoo. One guard grunts an order. Artoo beeps nervously.
THREEPIO: Oh! Oh, no. Walking toward them out of the darkness is BIB FORTUNA, a humanlike alien with long tentacles protruding from his skull.
BIB: Jabba the Hutt. Artoo lets out a series of quick beeps. THREEPIO ( cont ) .and a gift. ( thinks a moment, then to Artoo ) Gift, what gift? Bib shakes his head negatively.
THREEPIO: Jabba the Hutt. Artoo lets out a series of quick beeps. THREEPIO ( cont ) .and a gift. ( thinks a moment, then to Artoo ) Gift, what gift? Bib shakes his head negatively.
BIB: Bib holds out his hand toward Artoo and the tiny droid backs up a bit, letting out a protesting array of squeaks. Threepio turns to the strange-looking alien.
THREEPIO: Bib thinks about this for a moment.
THREEPIO: of things. Bib gestures for the droids to follow.
BIB: The droids follow the tall, tentacled alien into the darkness, trailed by the two guards.
THREEPIO: 8 INT JABBA'S THRONE ROOM The throne room is filled with the vilest, most grotesque CREATURES ever conceived in the universe. Artoo and Threepio seem very small as they pause in the doorway to the dimly lit chamber. Light shafts partially illuminate the drunken courtiers as Bib Fortuna crosses the room to the platform upon which rests the leader of this nauseating crowd: JABBA THE HUTT. The monarch of the galactic underworld is a repulsive blob of bloated fat with a maniacal grin. Chained to the horrible creature is the beautiful alien female dancer named OOLA. At the foot of the dais sits an obnoxious birdlike creature, SALACIOUS CRUMB. Bib whispers something in the slobbering degenerate's ear. Jabba laughs horribly, at the two terrified droids before him. Threepio bows The robots jump forward to stand before the repulsive, loose-skinned Artoo whistles, and a beam of light projects from his domed head, creating a hologram of LUKE on the floor. The image grows to over ten feet tall, and the young Jedi towers over the space gangsters.
THREEPIO: The robots jump forward to stand before the repulsive, loose-skinned Artoo whistles, and a beam of light projects from his domed head, creating a hologram of LUKE on the floor. The image grows to over ten feet tall, and the young Jedi towers over the space gangsters.
JABBA: The robots jump forward to stand before the repulsive, loose-skinned Artoo whistles, and a beam of light projects from his domed head, creating a hologram of LUKE on the floor. The image grows to over ten feet tall, and the young Jedi towers over the space gangsters.
THREEPIO: Artoo whistles, and a beam of light projects from his domed head, creating a hologram of LUKE on the floor. The image grows to over ten feet tall, and the young Jedi towers over the space gangsters.
LUKE: Skywalker, Jedi Knight and friend to Captain Solo. I know that you are powerful, mighty Jabba, and that your anger with Solo must be equally powerful. I seek an audience with Your Greatness to bargain for Solo's ( Jabba's crowd laughs ) With your wisdom, I'm sure that we can work out an arrangement which will be mutually beneficial and enable us to avoid any unpleasant confrontation. As a token of my goodwill, I present to you a gift: these two droids. Threepio is startled by this announcement.
THREEPIO: LUKE ( cont ) . Both are hardworking and will serve you well.
THREEPIO: Luke's hologram disappears. Jabba laughs while Bib speaks to him in Huttese. JABBA ( in Huttese subtitled ) There will be no bargain.
THREEPIO: JABBA ( in Huttese subtitled ) I will not give up my favorite decoration. I like Captain Solo where he Jabba laughs hideously and looks toward an alcove beside the throne. Hanging high, flat against the wall, exactly as we saw him last, is a carbonized HAN SOLO.
THREEPIO: 9 INT DUNGEON CORRIDOR One of Jabba's Gamorrean guards marches Artoo and Threepio down a dank, shadowy passageway lined with holding cells. The cries of unspeakable creatures bounce off the cold stone walls. Occasionally a repulsive arm or tentacle grabs through the bars at the hapless droids. Artoo beeps He never expressed any unhappiness with my work. Oh! Oh! Hold it! Ohh! A large tentacle wraps around Threepio's neck. He manages to break free, and they move on to a door at the end of the corridor.
THREEPIO: He never expressed any unhappiness with my work. Oh! Oh! Hold it! Ohh! A large tentacle wraps around Threepio's neck. He manages to break free, and they move on to a door at the end of the corridor.
NINEDENINE: angry with our last protocol droid and disintegrated him.
THREEPIO: angry with our last protocol droid and disintegrated him.
NINEDENINE: angry with our last protocol droid and disintegrated him.
THREEPIO: angry with our last protocol droid and disintegrated him.
NINEDENINE: angry with our last protocol droid and disintegrated him.
THREEPIO: angry with our last protocol droid and disintegrated him.
NINEDENINE: angry with our last protocol droid and disintegrated him.
THREEPIO: NINEDENINE ( to a Gamorrean guard ) Guard! This protocol droid might be useful. Fit him with a restraining bolt and take him back to His Excellency's main audience chamber. The guard shoves Threepio toward the door. THREEPIO ( disappearing ) Artoo, don't leave me! Ohhh! Artoo lets out a plaintive cry as the door closes. Then he beeps need for you on the master's Sail Barge. And I think you'll fit in The poor work droid in the background lets out another tortured electronic scream.
NINEDENINE: need for you on the master's Sail Barge. And I think you'll fit in The poor work droid in the background lets out another tortured electronic scream.
JABBA: The lovely alien shakes her head again and screams.
OOLA: Jabba is furious and pulls her toward him, tugging on the chain.
JABBA: He pushes a button and, before the dancer can flee, a trap door in the floor springs open and swallows her up. As the door snaps shut, a muffled growl is followed by a hideous scream. Jabba and his monstrous friends laugh hysterically and several revelers hurry over to watch her fate through a grate. Threepio cringes and glances wistfully at the carbonite form of Han Solo, but is immediately distracted by a gunshot offscreen.ÊAn unnatural quiet sweeps the boisterous gathering. On the far side of the room, the crush of debauchers moves aside to allow the approach of two guards followed by BOUSHH, an oddly cloaked bounty hunter, leading his captive, Han Solo's copilot, CHEWBACCA THE WOOKIEE. Bib takes his place next to his disgusting master, and whispers into his ear, pointing at Chewbacca and the bounty hunter. Jabba listens intently, then the bounty hunter bows before the gangster and speaks a greeting in a strange, electronically processed tongue ( Ubese ). BOUSHH ( in Ubese subtitled ) I have come for the bounty on this Wookiee.
THREEPIO: JABBA ( in Huttese subtitled ) At last we have the mighty Chewbacca. Jabba lets out a loud, long, blood-curdling laugh and turns to Threepio, waving him closer. The reluctant droid obeys.
THREEPIO: Jabba continues speaking, as Threepio nervously translates. Boushh listens, studying the dangerous creatures around the room. He notices BOBA FETT standing near the door.
THREEPIO: reward of twenty-five thousand. BOUSHH ( in Ubese subtitled ) I want fifty thousand. No less. Jabba immediately flies into a rage, knocking the golden droid off the raised throne into a clattering heap on the floor. Boushh adjusts his weapon as Jabba raves in Huttese and Threepio struggles back onto the throne. The disheveled droid tries to compose himself.
THREEPIO: ( to Boushh ) Uh, the mighty Jabba asks why he must pay fifty thousand. The bounty hunter holds up a small silver ball in his hand. Threepio looks at it, then looks at Jabba, then back to the bounty hunter. The droid is very nervous and Jabba is getting very impatient.
THREEPIO: The guards instantly back away, as do most of the other monsters in the room. Jabba stares at the silver ball, which begins to glow in the bounty hunter's hand. The room has fallen into a tense hush. Jabba stares at the bounty hunter malevolently until a sly grin creeps across his vast mouth and he begins to laugh. JABBA ( in Huttese subtitled ) This bounty hunter is my kind of scum. Fearless and inventive. Jabba continues.
THREEPIO: Bib and the other monsters study the bounty hunter and wait for his reaction. Boushh releases a switch on the thermal detonator and it goes The raucous crowd of monsters erupts in a symphony of cheers and applause as the party returns to its full noisy pitch. Chewbacca growls. As he is led away we spot LANDO CALRISSIAN, disguised as a skiff guard in a partial face mask. The band starts up and dancing girls take the center of the floor, to the hoots of the loudly appreciative creatures. Boushh leans against a column with gunfighter cool and surveys the scene, his gaze stopping only when it connects with a glare from across the room. Boba Fett is watching him. Boushh shifts slightly, cradling his weapon lovingly. Boba Fett shifts with equally ominous arrogance.
BOUSHH: The raucous crowd of monsters erupts in a symphony of cheers and applause as the party returns to its full noisy pitch. Chewbacca growls. As he is led away we spot LANDO CALRISSIAN, disguised as a skiff guard in a partial face mask. The band starts up and dancing girls take the center of the floor, to the hoots of the loudly appreciative creatures. Boushh leans against a column with gunfighter cool and surveys the scene, his gaze stopping only when it connects with a glare from across the room. Boba Fett is watching him. Boushh shifts slightly, cradling his weapon lovingly. Boba Fett shifts with equally ominous arrogance.
THREEPIO: The raucous crowd of monsters erupts in a symphony of cheers and applause as the party returns to its full noisy pitch. Chewbacca growls. As he is led away we spot LANDO CALRISSIAN, disguised as a skiff guard in a partial face mask. The band starts up and dancing girls take the center of the floor, to the hoots of the loudly appreciative creatures. Boushh leans against a column with gunfighter cool and surveys the scene, his gaze stopping only when it connects with a glare from across the room. Boba Fett is watching him. Boushh shifts slightly, cradling his weapon lovingly. Boba Fett shifts with equally ominous arrogance.
BOUSHH: Han touches his face with his hand and moans.
BOUSHH: The bounty hunter reaches up and lifts the helmet from his head, revealing the beautiful face of PRINCESS LEIA.
HAN: The bounty hunter reaches up and lifts the helmet from his head, revealing the beautiful face of PRINCESS LEIA.
BOUSHH: The bounty hunter reaches up and lifts the helmet from his head, revealing the beautiful face of PRINCESS LEIA.
HAN: The bounty hunter reaches up and lifts the helmet from his head, revealing the beautiful face of PRINCESS LEIA.
BOUSHH: The bounty hunter reaches up and lifts the helmet from his head, revealing the beautiful face of PRINCESS LEIA.
HAN: The bounty hunter reaches up and lifts the helmet from his head, revealing the beautiful face of PRINCESS LEIA.
LEIA: As Leia helps her weakened lover to stand up, the relative quiet is pierced by an obscene HUTTESE CACKLE from the other side of the alcove.
HAN: As Leia helps her weakened lover to stand up, the relative quiet is pierced by an obscene HUTTESE CACKLE from the other side of the alcove.
LEIA: As Leia helps her weakened lover to stand up, the relative quiet is pierced by an obscene HUTTESE CACKLE from the other side of the alcove.
HAN: The curtain on the far side of the alcove opens, revealing Jabba the Hutt, surrounded by Bib and other aliens. He laughs again, and his gross cronies join in a cacophony of alien glee.
HAN: got a little sidetracked. It's not my fault. Jabba laughs. JABBA ( in Huttese subtitled ) It's too late for that, Solo. You may have been a good smuggler, but now you're Bantha fodder.
HAN: JABBA ( cont Huttese subtitled ) Take him away! The guards grab Han and start to lead him away.
HAN: Don't be a fool! Han is dragged off, as Lando quickly moves forward and attempts to lead Leia away. JABBA ( in Huttese subtitled ) Bring her to me. Jabba chuckles as Lando and a second guard drag the beautiful young princess toward him. Threepio peeks from behind a monster and quickly turns away in disgust.
LEIA: JABBA ( in Huttese subtitled ) I'm sure. Inexorably her lovely face moves to within a few inches of Jabba's ugly blob of a head, and Leia turns away in disgust.
LEIA: 15 INT DUNGEON CELL The heavy metal door of the dungeon whines and slowly creaks open. A guard throws the blinded star captain into the dark cell and the door slams shut behind him, leaving only a thin sliver of light from a crack in the door. Han is trying to collect himself when suddenly a growl is heard from the far side of the cell. He jumps back against the cell door and listens.
THREEPIO: 15 INT DUNGEON CELL The heavy metal door of the dungeon whines and slowly creaks open. A guard throws the blinded star captain into the dark cell and the door slams shut behind him, leaving only a thin sliver of light from a crack in the door. Han is trying to collect himself when suddenly a growl is heard from the far side of the cell. He jumps back against the cell door and listens.
HAN: The shadowy figure lets out a crazy yell and races toward Han, lifting him off the ground with a big hug that carries them into the light, revealing Chewie.
HAN: The giant Wookiee barks with glee.
HAN: Chewie barks an excited blue streak.
HAN: rescue anybody. Chewie barks a reply.
HAN: delusions of grandeur. Chewie growls insistently. He holds Han to his chest and pets his head.
HAN: 16 INT MAIN GATE AND HALL - JABBA'S PALACE Noisily, the main gate lifts to flood the blackness with blinding LIGHT and reveal the silhouetted figure of LUKE SKYWALKER. He is clad in a robe similar to Ben's and wears neither pistol nor laser sword. Luke strides purposefully into the hallway. Two giant guards move to block Luke's path. Luke halts. Luke raises his hand and points at the puzzled guards, who immediately lower their spears and fall back. The young Jedi lowers his hand and moves on down the hallway. Bib Fortuna appears out of the gloom. He speaks to Luke as they approach each other, but Luke doesn't stop and Bib must reverse his direction and hurry alongside the young Jedi in order to carry on the conversation. Several other guards fall in behind them in the darkness.
LUKE: Bib answers in Huttese, shaking his head in denial. Luke stops and stares at Bib; he raises his hand slightly.
LUKE: Bib turns in hypnotic response to Luke's command, and Luke follows him into the gloom.
LUKE: Bib responds.
LUKE: 17 INT JABBA'S THRONE ROOM Jabba is asleep on his throne, with Leia lying in front of him. Salacious sits by Jabba's tail, watching it wriggle. Leia is now dressed in the skimpy costume of a dancing girl; a chain runs from a manacle/necklace at her throat to her new master, Jabba the Hutt. Threepio stands behind Jabba as Bib comes up to the gangster slug.
THREEPIO: Jabba awakens with a start and Bib continues, in Huttese.
BIB: Jabba awakens with a start and Bib continues, in Huttese.
BIB: JABBA ( in Huttese subtitled ) I told you not to admit him.
LUKE: BIB ( in Huttese subtitled ) He must be allowed to speak. Jabba, furious, clobbers Bib and shoves him away. JABBA ( in Huttese subtitled ) You weak-minded fool! He's using an old Jedi mind trick. Luke stares hard at Jabba.
LUKE: JABBA ( in Huttese subtitled ) Your mind powers will not work on me, boy.
LUKE: profit by this. or be destroyed! It's your choice. But I warn you not to underestimate my powers. Jabba's laugh is mean and loud. Threepio attempts to warn Luke about the pit.
THREEPIO: JABBA ( in Huttese subtitled ) There will be no bargain, young Jedi. I shall enjoy watching you die. Luke reaches out, and a pistol jumps out of a guard's holster and flies into Luke's hand. The bewildered guard grabs for it as Jabba raises his The floor suddenly drops away, sending Luke and the hapless guard into the pit. The pistol goes off, blasting a hole in the ceiling. Jabba laughs and his courtiers join in. Leia starts forward but is restrained by a human guard Lando, recognizable behind his mask. She looks at him and he shakes his head "no."
JABBA: The floor suddenly drops away, sending Luke and the hapless guard into the pit. The pistol goes off, blasting a hole in the ceiling. Jabba laughs and his courtiers join in. Leia starts forward but is restrained by a human guard Lando, recognizable behind his mask. She looks at him and he shakes his head "no."
THREEPIO: At the side of the pit, an iron door rumbles upward and a giant, fanged RANCOR emerges. The guard runs to the side of the pit and tries futilely to scramble to the top. The hideous beast closes in on him. The Rancor moves past Luke, and as the guard continues to scramble, the Rancor picks him up and pops him into its slavering jaws. A few screams, and the guard is swallowed with a gulp. The audience cheers and laughs at the guard's fate. The monster turns and starts for Luke. The young Jedi dashes away just ahead of the monster's swipe at him, and picks up the long arm bone of an earlier victim. The monster grabs Luke and brings him up to his salivating mouth. At the last moment, Luke wedges the bone in the monster's mouth and is dropped to the floor. The monster bellows in rage and flails about, hitting the side of the pit, causing an The monster crushes the bone in its jaws and sees Luke, who squeezes into a crevice in the pit wall. Luke looks past the monster to the holding cave beyond. On the far side of the holding cave is a utility doorif only he can get to it. The Rancor spots Luke and reaches into the crevice for him. Luke grabs a large rock and raises it, smashing it down on the Rancor's finger.
LUKE: Luke looks to Leia.
HAN: Luke looks to Leia.
LUKE: Luke looks to Leia.
HAN: Luke looks to Leia.
LUKE: Luke looks to Leia.
HAN: Luke looks to Leia.
LUKE: Luke looks to Leia.
HAN: Luke looks to Leia.
LEIA: Threepio is standing behind the grotesque gangster as he strokes Leia like a pet cat. Several of the guards, including Lando, bring Luke from the other side of the room. Boba is standing behind Jabba. Threepio steps forward and translates for the captives.
THREEPIO: that you are to be terminated immediately.
HAN: Carkoon, the nesting place of the all-powerful Sarlacc. HAN ( to Luke ) Doesn't sound so bad.
THREEPIO: Carkoon, the nesting place of the all-powerful Sarlacc. HAN ( to Luke ) Doesn't sound so bad.
THREEPIO: you are slowly digested over a thousand years.
HAN: Chewie barks his agreement.
LUKE: Jabba cackles evilly at this. As the guards drag the prisoners from the throne room, a loud cheer rises from the crowd. Leia and Chewie exchange concerned looks, but Luke Skywalker, Jedi warrior, cannot suppress a smile.
HAN: big light blur.
LUKE: 24 INT BARGE OBSERVATION DECK Jabba the Hutt rides like a sultan in the massive antigravity ship. His entire retinue is with him, drinking, eating, and having a good time. Leia is watching her friends in the skiff when the chain attached to her neck is pulled tight and Jabba tugs the scantily clad princess to JABBA ( in Huttese subtitled ) Soon you will learn to appreciate me. Threepio wanders among the Sail Barge aliens, bumping into a smaller droid serving drinks, spilling them all over the place. The stubby droid lets out an angry series of beeps and whistles.
HAN: 24 INT BARGE OBSERVATION DECK Jabba the Hutt rides like a sultan in the massive antigravity ship. His entire retinue is with him, drinking, eating, and having a good time. Leia is watching her friends in the skiff when the chain attached to her neck is pulled tight and Jabba tugs the scantily clad princess to JABBA ( in Huttese subtitled ) Soon you will learn to appreciate me. Threepio wanders among the Sail Barge aliens, bumping into a smaller droid serving drinks, spilling them all over the place. The stubby droid lets out an angry series of beeps and whistles.
LUKE: 24 INT BARGE OBSERVATION DECK Jabba the Hutt rides like a sultan in the massive antigravity ship. His entire retinue is with him, drinking, eating, and having a good time. Leia is watching her friends in the skiff when the chain attached to her neck is pulled tight and Jabba tugs the scantily clad princess to JABBA ( in Huttese subtitled ) Soon you will learn to appreciate me. Threepio wanders among the Sail Barge aliens, bumping into a smaller droid serving drinks, spilling them all over the place. The stubby droid lets out an angry series of beeps and whistles.
HAN: 24 INT BARGE OBSERVATION DECK Jabba the Hutt rides like a sultan in the massive antigravity ship. His entire retinue is with him, drinking, eating, and having a good time. Leia is watching her friends in the skiff when the chain attached to her neck is pulled tight and Jabba tugs the scantily clad princess to JABBA ( in Huttese subtitled ) Soon you will learn to appreciate me. Threepio wanders among the Sail Barge aliens, bumping into a smaller droid serving drinks, spilling them all over the place. The stubby droid lets out an angry series of beeps and whistles.
THREEPIO: Artoo beeps a quick reply.
THREEPIO: They're going to execute Master Luke and, if we're not careful, us too! Artoo whistles a singsong response.
THREEPIO: 25 EXT SARLACC PIT The convoy moves up over a huge sand pit. The Sail Barge stops to one side of the depression, as does the escort skiff. But the prisoner's skiff moves out directly over the center and hovers. At the bottom of the deep cone of sand is a repulsive, mucous-lined hole, surrounded by thousands of needle-sharp teeth. This is the SARLACC. A plank is extended from the edge of the prisoner's skiff. Guards release Luke's bonds and shove him out onto the plank above the Sarlacc's mouth.
THREEPIO: honorably. But should any of you wish to beg for mercy, the great Jabba the Hutt will now listen to your pleas.
HAN: no such pleasure from us. Right? Chewie growls his agreement.
LUKE: Lando moves unobtrusively along the skiff as Luke shoots a quick look of conspiracy to him.
LUKE: At that moment, the deck gunmen on the barge unleash a series of blasts from a big cannon on the upper deck. Lando is tossed from the deck of the rocking skiff. He manages to grab a rope, and dangles desperately above the Sarlacc pit.
LANDO: 34 EXT UPPER DECK - SAIL BARGE With two swift strides, the dangerous Boba Fett ignites his rocket pack, leaps into the air, and flies from the barge down to the skiff.
HAN: The Wookiee is wounded and he howls in pain.
HAN: For a moment, Luke is distracted, and in that moment, Boba fires a cable out of his armored sleeve. Instantly, Luke is wrapped in a strong cable, his arms pinned against his side, his sword arm free only from the wrist down. Luke bends his wrist so the lightsaber points straight up to reach the wire lasso and cuts through. Luke shrugs away the cable and stands free. Another blast from the Barge's deck gun hits near Boba and he is knocked unconscious to the deck, next to where Lando is hanging.
LANDO: Luke is a little shaken but remains standing as a fusillade brackets him. The second skiff, loaded with guards firing their weapons, moves in on Luke fast. Luke leaps toward the incoming second skiff. The young Jedi leaps into the middle of the second skiff and begins decimating the guards from their midst. Chewie, wounded, tries to lift himself as he barks directions to Han, guiding him toward a spear which has been dropped by one of the guards. Han searches the deck as Chewie barks directions; finally he grabs hold of the spear. Boba Fett, badly shaken, rises from the deck. He looks over at the other skiff, where Luke is whipping a mass of guards. Boba raises his arm, and aims his lethal appendage. Chewie barks desperately at Han.
HAN: Luke is a little shaken but remains standing as a fusillade brackets him. The second skiff, loaded with guards firing their weapons, moves in on Luke fast. Luke leaps toward the incoming second skiff. The young Jedi leaps into the middle of the second skiff and begins decimating the guards from their midst. Chewie, wounded, tries to lift himself as he barks directions to Han, guiding him toward a spear which has been dropped by one of the guards. Han searches the deck as Chewie barks directions; finally he grabs hold of the spear. Boba Fett, badly shaken, rises from the deck. He looks over at the other skiff, where Luke is whipping a mass of guards. Boba raises his arm, and aims his lethal appendage. Chewie barks desperately at Han.
HAN: The space pirate turns around blindly, and the long spear in his hand whacks squarely in the middle of Boba's rocket pack. The impact of the swing causes the rocket pack to ignite. Boba blasts off, flying over the second skiff like a missile, smashing against the side of the huge Sail Barge and sliding away into the pit. He screams as his armored body makes its last flight past Lando and directly into the mucous mouth of the Sarlacc. The Sarlacc burps. Chewie growls a weak congratulations to Han.
HAN: A major hit from the barge deck gun knocks the skiff on its side. Han and almost everything else on board slides overboard. The rope breaks, and Lando falls to the side of the Sarlacc pit. Luckily, Han's foot catches on the skiff railing and he dangles above Lando and the pit. The wounded Wookiee holds onto the skiff for dear life as another hit from the deck gun rocks the skiff violently.
LANDO: A major hit from the barge deck gun knocks the skiff on its side. Han and almost everything else on board slides overboard. The rope breaks, and Lando falls to the side of the Sarlacc pit. Luckily, Han's foot catches on the skiff railing and he dangles above Lando and the pit. The wounded Wookiee holds onto the skiff for dear life as another hit from the deck gun rocks the skiff violently.
HAN: A major hit from the barge deck gun knocks the skiff on its side. Han and almost everything else on board slides overboard. The rope breaks, and Lando falls to the side of the Sarlacc pit. Luckily, Han's foot catches on the skiff railing and he dangles above Lando and the pit. The wounded Wookiee holds onto the skiff for dear life as another hit from the deck gun rocks the skiff violently.
HAN: Chewie grabs hold of Han's feet, holding him upside down, as Han extends the spear toward Lando, who is clutching to the side of the Luke finishes off the last guard on the second skiff. He sees the deck gun blasting away at his helpless companions. Luke leaps from the skiff, across a chasm of air, to the sheer metallic side of the Sail Barge. Barely able to get a fingerhold, he begins a painful climb up the hull, when suddenly an ax smashes through a window an inch from his head. With Jedi agility, Luke grasps the wrist holding the ax and yanks the helpless guard through the broken window and into the deadly pit. The injured Chewie is reaching over the rail for the dangling Han, who is in turn blindly reaching down toward the desperate Lando. The Baron has stopped his slippage down the sandy slope of the Sarlacc pit by lying very still. Every time he tries to reach for Han, the loose sand moves him closer to his final reward.
HAN: Luke finishes off the last guard on the second skiff. He sees the deck gun blasting away at his helpless companions. Luke leaps from the skiff, across a chasm of air, to the sheer metallic side of the Sail Barge. Barely able to get a fingerhold, he begins a painful climb up the hull, when suddenly an ax smashes through a window an inch from his head. With Jedi agility, Luke grasps the wrist holding the ax and yanks the helpless guard through the broken window and into the deadly pit. The injured Chewie is reaching over the rail for the dangling Han, who is in turn blindly reaching down toward the desperate Lando. The Baron has stopped his slippage down the sandy slope of the Sarlacc pit by lying very still. Every time he tries to reach for Han, the loose sand moves him closer to his final reward.
HAN: Another blast hits the front of the tilted skiff, causing Lando to let go of the spear.
LANDO: Again Han extends the spear toward Lando.
HAN: Lando screams. One of the Sarlacc's tentacles has wrapped tightly around his ankle, dragging him down the side of the pit.
HAN: Han adjusts his aim as Lando lowers his head, and the fuzzy-eyed pirate fires at the tentacle. Direct hit. The tentacle releases Lando, and Chewie starts to pull them on board the skiff.
LANDO: Han adjusts his aim as Lando lowers his head, and the fuzzy-eyed pirate fires at the tentacle. Direct hit. The tentacle releases Lando, and Chewie starts to pull them on board the skiff.
HAN: Han adjusts his aim as Lando lowers his head, and the fuzzy-eyed pirate fires at the tentacle. Direct hit. The tentacle releases Lando, and Chewie starts to pull them on board the skiff.
LANDO: Han adjusts his aim as Lando lowers his head, and the fuzzy-eyed pirate fires at the tentacle. Direct hit. The tentacle releases Lando, and Chewie starts to pull them on board the skiff.
HAN: 38 EXT UPPER DECK The deck gunners have Chewie and the desperate dangling human chain in their gun sights when something up on deck commands their attention: Luke, standing before them like a pirate king, ignites his lightsaber. The deck gunners have barely reached for their pistols before the young Jedi has demolished them. Immediately, Luke turns to see two more gunners ( who have been uncovering a giant gun at the end of the barge ) racing for him, firing their laser pistols.
LEIA: Artoo and Leia race for the exit, passing Threepio, who is kicking and screaming as Salacious Crumb, the reptilian monkey- monster picks out one of the golden droid's eyes.
THREEPIO: Artoo zips over and zaps Salacious, sending him skyward with a scream, crashing into the rafters as Artoo, Leia, and Threepio ( with his eye dangling from a wire ) hurry off.
LUKE: A laser blast hits Luke's mechanical hand and he bends over in pain, but manages to swing his lightsaber upward and take out the last of the guards. He looks at the wounded hand, which reveals the mechanism. He flexes the hand; it still works. Near the rail of the upper deck, Artoo and Threepio steady themselves as Threepio gets ready to jump. Artoo beeps wildly.
THREEPIO: Artoo butts the golden droid over the edge and steps off himself, tumbling toward the sand. Luke runs along the empty deck toward Leia and the barge gun, which she has brought around to point down at the deck.
LUKE: Luke has hold on one of the rigging ropes from the mast. He gathers Leia in his other arm and kicks the trigger of the deck gun. The gun explodes into the deck as Luke and Leia swing out toward the skiff.
LUKE: The Sail Barge is exploding in stages in the distance. Half of the huge craft is on fire.
LANDO: The Sail Barge is exploding in stages in the distance. Half of the huge craft is on fire.
HAN: HAN ( blinking ) Then I guess I'm getting better. As soon as the group huddles under the bulk of the Falcon, the wind dies down to something more describable as a severe weather condition. Threepio hits a switch, and the gang-plank lowers with a HUM. HAN ( turning to Luke ) I've got to hand it to you, kid, you were pretty good out there. LUKE ( shrugging it off ) I had a lot of help. Think nothing of it.
LEIA: HAN ( blinking ) Then I guess I'm getting better. As soon as the group huddles under the bulk of the Falcon, the wind dies down to something more describable as a severe weather condition. Threepio hits a switch, and the gang-plank lowers with a HUM. HAN ( turning to Luke ) I've got to hand it to you, kid, you were pretty good out there. LUKE ( shrugging it off ) I had a lot of help. Think nothing of it.
HAN: thing to dead there is. And it wasn't just sleepin'. It was a big wide awake nothing! Luke nods, as Chewie growls affectionately at the young Jedi warrior, mussing his hair like a proud uncle. And Leia warmly hugs him. LUKE ( moving to his ship ) I'll see you back at the fleet.
HAN: Luke and Artoo take off in their spacecraft.
LUKE: Luke and Artoo take off in their spacecraft.
HAN: betrayal and subsequent aide ) Guess I owe you some thanks, too, Lando.
LANDO: rest of my life, so I might as well get you unfrozen sooner or later.
LEIA: 44A EXT SPACE ABOVE TATOOINE The desolate yellow planet fills the screen, Luke's X-wing appears and peels off to the left. A moment later, the FALCON appears as a dot and grows huge, to roar directly over the CAMERA.
LANDO: 44A EXT SPACE ABOVE TATOOINE The desolate yellow planet fills the screen, Luke's X-wing appears and peels off to the left. A moment later, the FALCON appears as a dot and grows huge, to roar directly over the CAMERA.
LUKE: LEIA ( over comlink ) Hurry. The Alliance should be assembled by now.
LUKE: HAN ( over comlink ) Hey, Luke, thanks. Thanks for comin' after me. Now I owe you one. A message from Artoo appears on the small monitor screen in front of Luke. He smiles at the monitor and speaks to Artoo, as he pulls a black glove on to cover his wounded mechanical hand.
LUKE: promise to keep. to an old friend.
VADER: your search for young Skywalker.
EMPEROR: your search for young Skywalker.
VADER: you must bring him before me. He has grown strong. Only together can we turn him to the dark side of the He laughs to himself as they pass along the vast line of Imperial 49 EXT YODA'S HOUSE - DAGOBAH Once again, Artoo finds himself waiting around in the damp environs of the swamp planet, and he's none too happy about it. He beeps disconsolately to himself and turns to look at Yoda's cottage. Warm yellow light escapes the oddly shaped windows to fight the gloom.
EMPEROR: you must bring him before me. He has grown strong. Only together can we turn him to the dark side of the He laughs to himself as they pass along the vast line of Imperial 49 EXT YODA'S HOUSE - DAGOBAH Once again, Artoo finds himself waiting around in the damp environs of the swamp planet, and he's none too happy about it. He beeps disconsolately to himself and turns to look at Yoda's cottage. Warm yellow light escapes the oddly shaped windows to fight the gloom.
VADER: He laughs to himself as they pass along the vast line of Imperial 49 EXT YODA'S HOUSE - DAGOBAH Once again, Artoo finds himself waiting around in the damp environs of the swamp planet, and he's none too happy about it. He beeps disconsolately to himself and turns to look at Yoda's cottage. Warm yellow light escapes the oddly shaped windows to fight the gloom.
EMPEROR: He laughs to himself as they pass along the vast line of Imperial 49 EXT YODA'S HOUSE - DAGOBAH Once again, Artoo finds himself waiting around in the damp environs of the swamp planet, and he's none too happy about it. He beeps disconsolately to himself and turns to look at Yoda's cottage. Warm yellow light escapes the oddly shaped windows to fight the gloom.
YODA: Luke is sitting in a corner of the cramped space and, indeed, his look has been woeful. Caught, he tries to hide it.
LUKE: YODA ( tickled, chuckles ) I do, yes, I do! Sick have I become. Old and weak. ( Points a crooked finger ) When nine hundred years old you reach, look as good you will not. Hmm? Yoda chuckles at this, coughs, and hobbles over toward his bed.
YODA: Yoda sits himself on his bed, with great effort.
LUKE: and soon night must fall. That is the way of things. the way of the Yoda sighs, and lies back on his bed.
YODA: and soon night must fall. That is the way of things. the way of the Yoda sighs, and lies back on his bed.
LUKE: Yoda sighs, and lies back on his bed.
YODA: Yoda sighs, and lies back on his bed.
LUKE: YODA ( shakes his head ) Ohhh. Not yet. One thing remains: Vader. You must confront Vader. Then, only then, a Jedi will you be. And confront him you will. Luke is in agony. He is silent for a long moment, screwing up his courage. Finally he is able to ask.
LUKE: Yoda's eyes are full of weariness and compassion. An odd, sad smile creases his face. He turns painfully on his side, away from Luke.
YODA: Luke watches him, each moment an eternity.
LUKE: Luke reacts as if cut.
YODA: Luke reacts as if cut.
YODA: A new look of concern crosses Yoda's face. He closes his eyes.
LUKE: A new look of concern crosses Yoda's face. He closes his eyes.
YODA: Yoda opens his eyes again and studies the youth. YODA ( gathering all his strength ) No. Unfortunate that you rushed to face him. that incomplete was your training. Not ready for the burden were you.
LUKE: Yoda opens his eyes again and studies the youth. YODA ( gathering all his strength ) No. Unfortunate that you rushed to face him. that incomplete was your training. Not ready for the burden were you.
LUKE: fear, aggression. The dark side are they. Once you start down the dark path, forever will it dominate your He beckons the young Jedi closer to him.
YODA: fear, aggression. The dark side are they. Once you start down the dark path, forever will it dominate your He beckons the young Jedi closer to him.
YODA: or suffer your father's fate, you will. Luke, when gone am I ( cough ), the last of the Jedi will you be. Luke, the Force runs strong in your family. Pass on what you have learned, Luke. ( with great effort ) There is.another.Sky.Sky.walker. He catches his breath. A shiver runs through the ancient green creature, and he dies. Luke stares at his dead master as he disappears in front of his eyes.
LUKE: BEN ( OS ) Luke looks up to see the shimmering image of BEN KENOBI.
LUKE: The ghost of Ben Kenobi approaches him through the swamp.
LUKE: Anakin Skywalker and became Darth Vader. When that happened, the good man who was your father was destroyed. So what I have told you was true. from a certain point of view. LUKE ( turning away, derisive ) A certain point of view!
BEN: Anakin Skywalker and became Darth Vader. When that happened, the good man who was your father was destroyed. So what I have told you was true. from a certain point of view. LUKE ( turning away, derisive ) A certain point of view!
BEN: greatly on our own point of view. Luke is unresponsive. Ben studies him in silence for a moment.
BEN: certainly wouldn't have been for the first time. You see, what happened to your father was my fault. Ben pauses sadly.
BEN: Luke turns with interest at this. As Ben speaks, Luke settles on a stump, mesmerized. Artoo comes over to offer his comforting presence.
BEN: amazed how strongly the Force was with him. I took it upon myself to train him as a Jedi. I thought that I could instruct him just as well as Yoda. I was wrong. My pride has had terrible consequences for the Luke is entranced.
LUKE: done. He is more machine now than man. Twisted and evil.
BEN: done. He is more machine now than man. Twisted and evil.
LUKE: was part of your training. It taught you, among other things, the value of patience. Had you not been so impatient to defeat Vader then, you could have finished your training here with Yoda. You would have been BEN ( grinning at Luke's indignation ) And did you help them? It was they who had to save you. You achieved little by rushing back prematurely, I fear. LUKE ( with sadness ) I found out Darth Vader was my father.
BEN: was part of your training. It taught you, among other things, the value of patience. Had you not been so impatient to defeat Vader then, you could have finished your training here with Yoda. You would have been BEN ( grinning at Luke's indignation ) And did you help them? It was they who had to save you. You achieved little by rushing back prematurely, I fear. LUKE ( with sadness ) I found out Darth Vader was my father.
LUKE: was part of your training. It taught you, among other things, the value of patience. Had you not been so impatient to defeat Vader then, you could have finished your training here with Yoda. You would have been BEN ( grinning at Luke's indignation ) And did you help them? It was they who had to save you. You achieved little by rushing back prematurely, I fear. LUKE ( with sadness ) I found out Darth Vader was my father.
BEN: was part of your training. It taught you, among other things, the value of patience. Had you not been so impatient to defeat Vader then, you could have finished your training here with Yoda. You would have been BEN ( grinning at Luke's indignation ) And did you help them? It was they who had to save you. You achieved little by rushing back prematurely, I fear. LUKE ( with sadness ) I found out Darth Vader was my father.
LUKE: BEN ( grinning at Luke's indignation ) And did you help them? It was they who had to save you. You achieved little by rushing back prematurely, I fear. LUKE ( with sadness ) I found out Darth Vader was my father.
BEN: - the side your father couldn't get past. Impatience is the easiest door - for you, like your father. Only, your father was seduced by what he found on the other side of the door, and you have held firm. You're no longer so reckless now, Luke. You are strong and patient. And now, you must face Darth Vader again!
LUKE: father when you were born. The Emperor knew, as I did, if Anakin were to have any offspring, they would be a threat to him. That is the reason why your sister remains safely anonymous.
BEN: father when you were born. The Emperor knew, as I did, if Anakin were to have any offspring, they would be a threat to him. That is the reason why your sister remains safely anonymous.
LUKE: father when you were born. The Emperor knew, as I did, if Anakin were to have any offspring, they would be a threat to him. That is the reason why your sister remains safely anonymous.
BEN: father when you were born. The Emperor knew, as I did, if Anakin were to have any offspring, they would be a threat to him. That is the reason why your sister remains safely anonymous.
LUKE: father when you were born. The Emperor knew, as I did, if Anakin were to have any offspring, they would be a threat to him. That is the reason why your sister remains safely anonymous.
BEN: father when you were born. The Emperor knew, as I did, if Anakin were to have any offspring, they would be a threat to him. That is the reason why your sister remains safely anonymous.
LUKE: do you credit. But they could be made to serve the Emperor. Luke looks into the distance, trying to comprehend all this. BEN ( continuing his narrative ) When your father left, he didn't know your mother was pregnant. Your mother and I knew he would find out eventually, but we wanted to keep you both as safe as possible, for as long as possible. So I took you to live with my brother Owen on Tatooine. and your mother took Leia to live as the daughter of Senator Organa, on Alderaan. Luke turns, and settles near Ben to hear the tale. BEN ( attempting to give solace with his words ) The Organa household was high-born and politically quite powerful in that system. Leia became a princess by virtue of lineage. no one knew she'd been adopted, of course. But it was a title without real power, since Alderaan had long been a democracy. Even so, the family continued to be politically powerful, and Leia, following in her foster father's path, became a senator as well. That's not all she became, of course. she became the leader of her cell in the Alliance against the corrupt Empire. And because she had diplomatic immunity, she was a vital link for getting information to the Rebel cause. That's what she was doing when her path crossed yours. for her foster parents had always told her to contact me on Tatooine, if her troubles became Luke is overwhelmed by the truth, and is suddenly protective of his Luke. but the Force is strong with her, as it is with all of your family. There is no avoiding the battle. You must face and destroy 52 EXT SPACE - REBEL FLEET The vast Rebel Fleet stretches as far as the eye can see. Overhead a dozen small Corellian battleships fly in formation. Fighters and battlecruisers surround the largest of the Rebel Star Cruisers, the
BEN: do you credit. But they could be made to serve the Emperor. Luke looks into the distance, trying to comprehend all this. BEN ( continuing his narrative ) When your father left, he didn't know your mother was pregnant. Your mother and I knew he would find out eventually, but we wanted to keep you both as safe as possible, for as long as possible. So I took you to live with my brother Owen on Tatooine. and your mother took Leia to live as the daughter of Senator Organa, on Alderaan. Luke turns, and settles near Ben to hear the tale. BEN ( attempting to give solace with his words ) The Organa household was high-born and politically quite powerful in that system. Leia became a princess by virtue of lineage. no one knew she'd been adopted, of course. But it was a title without real power, since Alderaan had long been a democracy. Even so, the family continued to be politically powerful, and Leia, following in her foster father's path, became a senator as well. That's not all she became, of course. she became the leader of her cell in the Alliance against the corrupt Empire. And because she had diplomatic immunity, she was a vital link for getting information to the Rebel cause. That's what she was doing when her path crossed yours. for her foster parents had always told her to contact me on Tatooine, if her troubles became Luke is overwhelmed by the truth, and is suddenly protective of his Luke. but the Force is strong with her, as it is with all of your family. There is no avoiding the battle. You must face and destroy 52 EXT SPACE - REBEL FLEET The vast Rebel Fleet stretches as far as the eye can see. Overhead a dozen small Corellian battleships fly in formation. Fighters and battlecruisers surround the largest of the Rebel Star Cruisers, the
LUKE: Luke. but the Force is strong with her, as it is with all of your family. There is no avoiding the battle. You must face and destroy 52 EXT SPACE - REBEL FLEET The vast Rebel Fleet stretches as far as the eye can see. Overhead a dozen small Corellian battleships fly in formation. Fighters and battlecruisers surround the largest of the Rebel Star Cruisers, the
BEN: Luke. but the Force is strong with her, as it is with all of your family. There is no avoiding the battle. You must face and destroy 52 EXT SPACE - REBEL FLEET The vast Rebel Fleet stretches as far as the eye can see. Overhead a dozen small Corellian battleships fly in formation. Fighters and battlecruisers surround the largest of the Rebel Star Cruisers, the
HAN: Oh, well, someone must have told them about my little maneuver at the battle of Taanab. HAN ( sarcastic ) Well, don't look at me, pal. I just said you were a fair pilot. I didn't know they were lookin' for somebody to lead this crazy attack. LANDO ( smiling ) I'm surprised they didn't ask you to do it.
LANDO: Oh, well, someone must have told them about my little maneuver at the battle of Taanab. HAN ( sarcastic ) Well, don't look at me, pal. I just said you were a fair pilot. I didn't know they were lookin' for somebody to lead this crazy attack. LANDO ( smiling ) I'm surprised they didn't ask you to do it.
HAN: one, remember? Mon Mothma signals for attention, and the room falls silent.
MON MOTHMA: This causes a stir. Mon Mothma turns to a holographic model of the Death Star, the Endor moon and the protecting deflector shield in the center of the room.
MON MOTHMA: of the Emperor's new battle station. We also know that the weapon systems of this Death Star are not yet operational. With the Imperial Fleet spread throughout the galaxy in a vain effort to engage us, it is relatively unprotected. But most important of all, we've learned that the Emperor himself is personally overseeing the final stages of the construction of this Death Star. A volley of spirited chatter erupts from the crowd. Han turns to Leia as Chewie barks his amazement. MON MOTHMA ( cont ) Many Bothans died to bring us this information. Admiral Ackbar, please. Admiral Ackbar steps forward and points to the Death Star's force field and the Moon of Endor.
ACKBAR: Although the weapon systems on this Death Star are not yet operational, the Death Star does have a strong defense mechanism. It is protected by an energy shield, which is generated from the nearby forest Moon of Endor. The shield must be deactivated if any attack is to be attempted. Once the shield is down, our cruisers will create a perimeter, while the fighters fly into the superstructure and attempt to knock out the main reactor. There's a concerned murmur. ACKBAR ( cont ) General Calrissian has volunteered to lead the fighter attack Han turns to Lando with a look of respect.
HAN: Lando nods his thanks.
HAN: Madine moves center stage.
ACKBAR: Madine moves center stage.
GENERAL MADINE: using a secret Imperial code, a strike team will land on the moon and deactivate the shield generator. The assembly begins to mumble among themselves.
THREEPIO: LEIA ( to Han ) I wonder who they found to pull that off.
GENERAL MADINE: Leia, startled, looks up at Han, surprise changing to admiration.
HAN: Chewbacca raises his hairy paw and volunteers. Han looks up at him.
HAN: Chewie waves that off with a huge GROWL. HAN ( smiles ) That's one.
LEIA: VOICE ( OS ) They turn in that direction and peer into the crowd as there are more cheers. The commanders part, and there at the back stands Luke. Han and Leia are surprised and delighted. Leia moves to Luke and embraces him warmly. She senses a change in him and looks into his eyes questioningly.
LEIA: What is it? LUKE ( hesitant ) Ask me again sometime. Han, Chewie, and Lando crowd around Luke as the assembly breaks up.
HAN: Artoo beeps a singsong observation to a worried Threepio.
LUKE: Artoo beeps a singsong observation to a worried Threepio.
THREEPIO: 54 INT HEADQUARTERS FRIGATE - MAIN DOCKING BAY The Millennium Falcon rests beyond the stolen IMPERIAL SHUTTLE, which looks anomalous among all the Rebel ships in the vast docking bay. Chewie barks a final farewell to Lando and leads Artoo and Threepio up the shuttle, crowded now with the Rebel strike team loading weapons and supplies. Lando turns to face Han. Luke and Leia have said their good- byes and start up the ramp.
HAN: help you can get. She's the fastest ship in the fleet.
LANDO: good care of her. She-she won't get a scratch. All right? HAN ( looks at him warmly ) Right. I got your promise now. Not a scratch.
LANDO: Han and Lando pause, then exchange salutes.
LANDO: Han goes up the ramp. Lando watches him go and then slowly turns away.
HAN: Han goes up the ramp. Lando watches him go and then slowly turns away.
HAN: Chewie growls a complaint.
LUKE: Chewie growls a complaint.
HAN: her, Chewie. Leia comes in from the hold and takes her seat near Luke. Chewie barks and hits some switches. Han's glance has stuck on something out the window: the Millennium Falcon. Leia nudges him Chewie, hearing this, stops his activity and looks longingly out at the Falcon, too. Leia puts a hand on Han's shoulder. LEIA ( softly ) Come on, General, let's move. Han snaps back to life.
LEIA: Chewie, hearing this, stops his activity and looks longingly out at the Falcon, too. Leia puts a hand on Han's shoulder. LEIA ( softly ) Come on, General, let's move. Han snaps back to life.
HAN: Chewie, hearing this, stops his activity and looks longingly out at the Falcon, too. Leia puts a hand on Han's shoulder. LEIA ( softly ) Come on, General, let's move. Han snaps back to life.
HAN: 56 EXT SPACE - THE REBEL FLEET The stolen Imperial shuttle leaves the main docking bay of the Headquarters Frigate, lowers its wings into flight position, and zooms off into space.
LUKE: 56 EXT SPACE - THE REBEL FLEET The stolen Imperial shuttle leaves the main docking bay of the Headquarters Frigate, lowers its wings into flight position, and zooms off into space.
THREEPIO: 56 EXT SPACE - THE REBEL FLEET The stolen Imperial shuttle leaves the main docking bay of the Headquarters Frigate, lowers its wings into flight position, and zooms off into space.
HAN: 56 EXT SPACE - THE REBEL FLEET The stolen Imperial shuttle leaves the main docking bay of the Headquarters Frigate, lowers its wings into flight position, and zooms off into space.
VADER: called for.
EMPEROR: called for.
VADER: Skywalker will be one of us! Your work here is finished, my friend. Go out to the command ship and await my orders.
EMPEROR: Skywalker will be one of us! Your work here is finished, my friend. Go out to the command ship and await my orders.
VADER: Vader bows, then turns and exits the throne room as the Emperor walks toward the waiting council members.
HAN: quick, Chewie. Chewie growls his agreement. CONTROLLER ( over radio ) We have you on our screen now. Please identify.
HAN: CONTROLLER ( over radio ) Shuttle Tydirium, transmit the clearance code for shield passage.
HAN: Leia and Chewbacca listen tensely as the sound of a high speed transmission begins.
LEIA: Chewie whines nervously. Luke stares at the Huge Super Star Destroyer that looms ever larger before them.
HAN: Chewie whines nervously. Luke stares at the Huge Super Star Destroyer that looms ever larger before them.
LUKE: your distance though, Chewie, but don't look like you're trying to keep your distance. Chewie barks a question.
HAN: your distance though, Chewie, but don't look like you're trying to keep your distance. Chewie barks a question.
HAN: Chewie barks his worries as the Super Star Destroyer grows larger out the window.
LUKE: Chewie barks his worries as the Super Star Destroyer grows larger out the window.
HAN: Chewie barks his worries as the Super Star Destroyer grows larger out the window.
VADER: PIETT ( into comlink ) Shuttle Tydirium, what is your cargo and destination? PILOT VOICE ( HAN ) ( filtered ) Parts and technical crew for the forest moon. The Bridge Commander looks to Vader for a reaction.
VADER: Vader looks upward, as he senses Luke's presence.
PIETT: Vader looks upward, as he senses Luke's presence.
PIETT: PIETT ( surprised ) As you wish, my lord. ( to controller ) Carry on. Piett nods at controller, who switches on his comlink.
VADER: PIETT ( surprised ) As you wish, my lord. ( to controller ) Carry on. Piett nods at controller, who switches on his comlink.
HAN: CONTROLLER ( filtered ) Shuttle Tydirium, deactivation of the shield will commence immediately. Follow your present course. Everyone breaths a sigh of relief. Everyone but Luke, who looks worried. Chewie barks.
HAN: 62 EXT SPACE - STOLEN IMPERIAL SHUTTLE - ENDOR The stolen Imperial shuttle moves off toward the green Sanctuary Moon.
THREEPIO: THEIR POV. Not far below them, two IMPERIAL SCOUTS are wandering through bushes in the valley below. Their two ROCKET BIKES are parked Leia motions for the squad to stay put, then she, Han, Luke and Chewie start quietly down.
LEIA: Leia motions for the squad to stay put, then she, Han, Luke and Chewie start quietly down.
HAN: Leia motions for the squad to stay put, then she, Han, Luke and Chewie start quietly down.
HAN: HAN ( grins ) Hey. it's me. Han and Chewie turn and start through the bushes toward the scouts. Luke and Leia exchange smiles. Han sneaks up behind one of the scouts, steps on a twig and the scout whirls, knocking Han into a tree. The scout shouts for his companion.
LUKE: HAN ( grins ) Hey. it's me. Han and Chewie turn and start through the bushes toward the scouts. Luke and Leia exchange smiles. Han sneaks up behind one of the scouts, steps on a twig and the scout whirls, knocking Han into a tree. The scout shouts for his companion.
SCOUT #1: The second scout jumps on his speeder bike and takes off, but Chewie gets off a shot on his crossbow laser weapon, causing the scout to crash into a tree. Han and Scout #1 are in a rousing fistfight. LUKE ( sarcastic ) Great. Come on. Luke starts for the scuffle, followed by Leia with her laser pistol drawn. As they run through the bushes, Leia stops and points to where two more scouts are sitting on their speeder bikes, with an unoccupied bike parked nearby.
LEIA: But Leia doesn't hear him and races for the remaining speeder bike. She starts it up and takes off as Luke jumps on the bike behind her. LUKE ( pointing to the controls ) Quick! Jam their comlink. Center switch! Luke and Leia speed into the dense foliage in hot pursuit, barely avoiding two huge trees.
LUKE: But Leia doesn't hear him and races for the remaining speeder bike. She starts it up and takes off as Luke jumps on the bike behind her. LUKE ( pointing to the controls ) Quick! Jam their comlink. Center switch! Luke and Leia speed into the dense foliage in hot pursuit, barely avoiding two huge trees.
HAN: He flips the remaining scout to the ground.
LUKE: Leia guns it, closing the gap, as the two scouts recklessly veer through a narrow gap in the trees. One of the bikes SCRAPES a tree, slowing the scout.
LUKE: Leia pulls her speeder bike up so close to the scout's bike that their steering vanes SCRAPE noisily. Luke leaps from his bike to the back of the scout's, grabs the Imperial warrior around the neck, and flips him off the bike, into a thick tree trunk. Luke gains control of the bike and follows Leia, who has pulled ahead. They tear off after the remaining scout.
LUKE: The speeding chase passes TWO MORE IMPERIAL SCOUTS. These two swing into pursuit, chasing Luke and Leia, firing away with their laser cannon. The two Rebels look behind them just as Luke's bike takes a glancing hit. LUKE ( indicating the one ahead ) Keep on that one! I'll take these two! With Leia shooting ahead, Luke suddenly slams his steering vanes into the braking mode. Luke's bike is a blur to the two pursuing scouts as they zip by him on either side. Luke slams his bike into forward and starts firing away, having switched places with his pursuers in a manner of seconds. Luke's aim is good and one scout's bike is blasted out of control. It explodes against a tree trunk. The scout's cohort takes one glance back at the flash and shifts into turbo drive, going even faster. Luke keeps on his tail. FAR AHEAD, Leia and the first scout are doing a highspeed slalom through the death-dealing trunks. Now Leia aims her bike skyward and rises out of sight. The scout turns in confusion, unable to see his pursuer. Suddenly, Leia dives down upon him from above, cannon blasting. The scout's bike takes a glancing hit. Leia moves in alongside him. The scout eyes her beside him, reaches down, and pulls out a handgun. Before Leia can react, the scout has blasted her bike, sending it out of control. Leia dives off as her bike explodes against a tree. The happy scout looks back at the explosion. But when he turns forward again, he is on a collision course with a giant fallen tree. He hits his brakes to no avail and disappears in a ANOTHER PART OF THE FOREST: Luke and the last remaining scout continue their weaving chase through the trees. Now Luke moves up close. The scout responds by slamming his bike into Luke's. A fallen tree forms a bridge across their path. The scout zips under. Luke goes over the top and crashes his bike down on the scout's. Both riders look ahead - a wide trunk looms directly in Luke's path, but the scout's bike beside him makes it almost impossible for him to avoid it. Luke banks with all his might, leaning almost horizontal over the scout's bike, and is able to make it by, just clipping the tree. When he straightens, he and the scout discover that their two bikes have locked front vanes and are moving as one. Another big tree looms in Luke's path. He reacts instinctively and dives off his bike. The two bikes come apart a second before Luke's explodes against a tree. The scout sweeps out and circles back to find Luke rises from the undergrowth as the scout bears down on him and opens fire with his laser cannon. Luke ignites his laser sword and begins deflecting the bolts. The scout's bike keeps coming and it appears that in a second it will cut Luke in half. At the last instant, Luke steps aside and chops off the bike's control vanes with one mighty slash. The scout's bike begins to shudder, then, pitching and rolling, it rises up to slam directly into a tree in a giant ball of fire.
THREEPIO: Han, Chewie, and the rest of the squad raise their weapons. Luke steps out of the foliage to find the weapons trained on him. He's too tired to care. He plops himself down on a boulder and looks around.
HAN: LUKE ( concerned ) What? She didn't come back?
HAN: Luke and Han exchange a silent, grim look. Luke gets up wearily.
LUKE: Luke and Han exchange a silent, grim look. Luke gets up wearily.
LUKE: Han nods, and signals to a Rebel officer.
HAN: Luke, Chewie, Han, and the droids move off in one direction as the squad proceeds in another.
LUKE: Luke, Chewie, Han, and the droids move off in one direction as the squad proceeds in another.
THREEPIO: They move off into the woods. THREEPIO ( to Artoo ) And you said it was pretty here. Ugh!
LEIA: She stands up, and the Ewok quickly backs away.
LEIA: Leia looks around at the dense forest, and at the charred remains of her speeder bike, then sits down, with a sigh, on a fallen log.
LEIA: She puts her head in her hands to rub away some of the soreness from her fall. She looks over at the watchful little Ewok and pats the log beside her.
LEIA: Wicket holds his spear up warily and growls at her like a puppy. Leia pats the log again.
LEIA: More growls and squeaks from the little bear creature.
LEIA: She takes a scrap of food out of her pocket and offers it to him. Wicket takes a step backward, then cocks his head and moves cautiously toward Leia, chattering in his squeaky Ewok language.
LEIA: Sniffing the food curiously, the Ewok comes toward Leia and sits on the log beside her. She takes off her helmet, and the little creature jumps back, startled again. He runs along the log, pointing his spear at her and chattering a blue streak. Leia holds out the helmet to him.
LEIA: little thing, aren't you? Reassured, Wicket lowers his spear and climbs back on the log, coming to investigate the helmet. Suddenly his ears perk up and he begins to sniff the air. He looks around warily, whispering some Ewokese warning to Leia.
LEIA: Suddenly a laser bolt comes out of the foliage and explodes on the log next to Leia. Leia and Wicket both roll backwards off the log, hiding behind it. Leia holds her own laser gun ready, while Wicket disappears underneath the log. Another shot, and still no sight of anyone in the forest. Then Leia senses something and turns to find a large IMPERIAL SCOUT standing over her with his weapon pointed at her head. He reaches out his hand for her weapon. SCOUT #l Freeze! Come on, get up! She hands the weapon over, as a second scout emerges from the foliage in front of the log.
SCOUT #1: SCOUT #2 The second scout starts toward his bike, as Wicket, crouched under the log, extends his spear and hits the first scout on the leg. The scout jumps and lets out an exclamation, and looks down at Wicket, puzzled. Leia grabs a branch and knocks him out. She dives for his laser pistol, and the second scout, now on his bike, takes off. Leia fires away and hits the escaping bike, causing it to crash into the first scout's bike, which flies end over end and explodes. The forest is quiet once more. Wicket pokes his fuzzy head up from behind the log and regards Leia withÊnew respect. He mumbles his awe. Leia hurries over, looking around all the time, and motions the chubby little creature into the dense foliage.
SCOUT #2: The second scout starts toward his bike, as Wicket, crouched under the log, extends his spear and hits the first scout on the leg. The scout jumps and lets out an exclamation, and looks down at Wicket, puzzled. Leia grabs a branch and knocks him out. She dives for his laser pistol, and the second scout, now on his bike, takes off. Leia fires away and hits the escaping bike, causing it to crash into the first scout's bike, which flies end over end and explodes. The forest is quiet once more. Wicket pokes his fuzzy head up from behind the log and regards Leia withÊnew respect. He mumbles his awe. Leia hurries over, looking around all the time, and motions the chubby little creature into the dense foliage.
LEIA: As they move into the foliage, Wicket takes the lead. He shrieks and tugs at Leia to follow him.
GUARD: Force ) The Emperor will see me, now!
VADER: Force ) The Emperor will see me, now!
GUARD: The Emperor will see you, now.
EMPEROR: EMPEROR ( no surprise ) Yes, I know. VADER ( after a beat ) My son is with them. EMPEROR ( very cool ) Are you sure?
VADER: EMPEROR ( no surprise ) Yes, I know. VADER ( after a beat ) My son is with them. EMPEROR ( very cool ) Are you sure?
VADER: clear, Lord Vader knows what is being asked.
EMPEROR: clear, Lord Vader knows what is being asked.
VADER: VADER ( skeptical ) He will come to me?
EMPEROR: VADER ( skeptical ) He will come to me?
EMPEROR: come to you and then you will bring him before me. VADER ( bows ) As you wish. The Dark Lord strides out of the throne room.
THREEPIO: He tosses the helmet to Han.
LUKE: He tosses the helmet to Han.
THREEPIO: HAN ( gravely ) I hope she's alright. Chewbacca growls, sniffing the air, then, with a bark, pushes off through the foliage.
HAN: The others rush to keep up with the giant Wookiee. As he scoots along, Artoo whistles nervously.
HAN: The rest of the group joins the Wookiee around the stake. HAN ( cont ) Nah, it's just a dead animal, Chewie. Chewie can't resist. He reaches toward the meat.
LUKE: Too late. The Wookiee has already pulled the animal from the stake. SPROOING! The group finds itself hanging upside down in an Ewok net, suspended high above the clearing. Artoo lets out a wild series of beeps and whistles, and Chewie howls his regret. Their bodies are a jumble in the net. Han removes a Wookiee paw from his mouth.
HAN: ( trying to free an arm ) Han, can you reach my lightsaber?
LUKE: ( trying to free an arm ) Han, can you reach my lightsaber?
HAN: Artoo is at the bottommost point in the net. He extends his cutting appendage and begins slicing at the net. Han is trying to squeeze an arm past Threepio to get at Luke's lightsaber. The net continues to Artoo has cut through and the entire group tumbles out of the net, crashing to the ground. As they regain their senses and sit up, they realize they are surrounded by dozens of Ewoks, each brandishing a long Han pushes the spear wielded by TEEBO out of his face and a second Ewok warrior comes up to argue with Teebo. The spear returns to Han's face. He grabs it angrily and starts to go for his laser pistol.
THREEPIO: Artoo has cut through and the entire group tumbles out of the net, crashing to the ground. As they regain their senses and sit up, they realize they are surrounded by dozens of Ewoks, each brandishing a long Han pushes the spear wielded by TEEBO out of his face and a second Ewok warrior comes up to argue with Teebo. The spear returns to Han's face. He grabs it angrily and starts to go for his laser pistol.
HAN: Han pushes the spear wielded by TEEBO out of his face and a second Ewok warrior comes up to argue with Teebo. The spear returns to Han's face. He grabs it angrily and starts to go for his laser pistol.
HAN: The Ewoks swarm through them and confiscate their weapons. Luke lets them take his lightsaber. Chewie growls at the furry critters.
LUKE: The Ewoks swarm through them and confiscate their weapons. Luke lets them take his lightsaber. Chewie growls at the furry critters.
LUKE: Artoo and Threepio are just untangling themselves. Threepio gets free of the net and sits up, rattled.
THREEPIO: When the Ewoks see Threepio, they let out a gasp and chatter among themselves. Threepio speaks to them in their native tongue. The Ewok nearest him drops his spear and prostrates himself before the droid. In a moment, all the Ewoks have followed suit. Chewie lets out a puzzled bark. Han and Luke regard the bowed creatures in wonder. The Ewoks begin to chant at Threepio.
LUKE: forms of dialect. But I do believe they think I am some sort of god. Chewbacca and Artoo think that's very funny. Han and Luke exchange "what next?" looks.
THREEPIO: forms of dialect. But I do believe they think I am some sort of god. Chewbacca and Artoo think that's very funny. Han and Luke exchange "what next?" looks.
HAN: dialect. But I do believe they think I am some sort of god. Chewbacca and Artoo think that's very funny. Han and Luke exchange "what next?" looks.
THREEPIO: dialect. But I do believe they think I am some sort of god. Chewbacca and Artoo think that's very funny. Han and Luke exchange "what next?" looks.
HAN: Han moves toward Threepio threateningly.
THREEPIO: Han moves toward Threepio threateningly.
HAN: Han moves toward Threepio threateningly.
THREEPIO: Han moves toward Threepio threateningly.
HAN: Several Ewoks' spears are thrust in Han's face at the affront to their god. The Ewoks move in to protect their god and Han is surrounded by a menacing circle of spears, all aimed at him. He holds up his hands 72 EXT FOREST - SERIES OF SHOTS A procession of Ewoks winds through the ever-darkening forest. Their prisoners - Han, Luke, Chewie, and Artoo - are tied to long poles and wrapped in vines, cocoonlike. Each pole is carried on the shoulders of several Ewoks. Behind the captives, Threepio is carried on a litter, like a king, by the remaining creatures.
HAN: 72 EXT FOREST - SERIES OF SHOTS A procession of Ewoks winds through the ever-darkening forest. Their prisoners - Han, Luke, Chewie, and Artoo - are tied to long poles and wrapped in vines, cocoonlike. Each pole is carried on the shoulders of several Ewoks. Behind the captives, Threepio is carried on a litter, like a king, by the remaining creatures.
HAN: Chewie growls his concern. Suddenly all activity stops as LOGRAY, the tribal Medicine Man, comes out of the big hut. He examines the captives carefully, goes to join Threepio, whose throne has been placed on an elevated platform. A larger, gray-haired Ewok, CHIEF CHIRPA, is examining Luke's lightsaber with great curiosity. Logray speaks to Threepio and the assemblage of fuzzy Ewoks, pointing to the prisoners tied to the stakes. The Ewoks begin filling the pit under Han with firewood.
HAN: main course at a banquet in my honor. The drums start beating, and all the furry heads turn to the large hut. Leia emerges, wearing an animal-skin dress. She sees what's happening at the same moment the prisoners see her. HAN and LUKE As she moves toward them, the Ewoks block her way with raised spears.
THREEPIO: main course at a banquet in my honor. The drums start beating, and all the furry heads turn to the large hut. Leia emerges, wearing an animal-skin dress. She sees what's happening at the same moment the prisoners see her. HAN and LUKE As she moves toward them, the Ewoks block her way with raised spears.
LEIA: Artoo and Chewie chime in with their welcome. Leia looks at the assembled Ewoks and sighs.
THREEPIO: Artoo and Chewie chime in with their welcome. Leia looks at the assembled Ewoks and sighs.
LEIA: Threepio talks to Chirpa and Logray, who listen and shake their heads negatively. The Medicine Man gestures toward the prisoners and barks some orders. Several Ewoks jump up and pile more wood on the barbecue with vigor. Leia trades frantic looks with Luke and Han .
HAN: and use your magic.
LUKE: and use your magic.
THREEPIO: Threepio speaks to the Ewoks. The Ewoks are disturbed. Logray steps forward and challenges Threepio. Luke closes his eyes and begins to Now the litter/throne, with Threepio sitting upon it, rises from the ground. At first Threepio doesn't notice and keeps talking.
LUKE: Threepio speaks to the Ewoks. The Ewoks are disturbed. Logray steps forward and challenges Threepio. Luke closes his eyes and begins to Now the litter/throne, with Threepio sitting upon it, rises from the ground. At first Threepio doesn't notice and keeps talking.
THREEPIO: Now the litter/throne, with Threepio sitting upon it, rises from the ground. At first Threepio doesn't notice and keeps talking.
THREEPIO: The Ewoks fall back in terror from the floating throne. Now Threepio begins to spin as though he were on a revolving stool, with Threepio calling out in total panic at his situation.
THREEPIO: Master Luke, Artoo! Artoo, quickly! Do something, somebody! Oh! Ohhh! Chief Chirpa yells orders to the cowering Ewoks. They rush up and release the bound prisoners. Luke and Han enfold Leia in a group embrace. Luke notices the spinning Threepio, with Artoo beeping up at him, and slowly lowers the golden droid and the throne to the ground. Logray orders the little droid cut down. Artoo crashes to the ground. When the Ewoks set him upright, the little droid is fighting mad. Artoo beeps a blue streak at the nearest Ewok, and begins pursuing him, finally getting close enough to zap him with an electric charge. The Ewok jumps two feet in the air and runs away, screaming. A small group of Ewoks surround the giant Wookiee, scratching their heads and marveling at his height.
THREEPIO: THREEPIO ( still shaken ) I.I never knew I had it in me.
LUKE: THREEPIO ( still shaken ) I.I never knew I had it in me.
THREEPIO: Threepio continues with: Millennium Falcon, Cloud City, Vader, Han Solo, carbonite, Sarlacc, bringing the history up to the present time. At the end of it, the Chief, Logray, and the elders confer, then nod in agreement. The Chief stands and makes a pronouncement. The drums begin to sound, and all the Ewoks stand with a great cheer and screeches.
HAN: Luke has been sharing the joy with smiling visage, but now something passes like a dark cloud through his consciousness. The others do not Several of the little teddy bears run up and hug the Rebels.
LEIA: Luke has been sharing the joy with smiling visage, but now something passes like a dark cloud through his consciousness. The others do not Several of the little teddy bears run up and hug the Rebels.
THREEPIO: Several of the little teddy bears run up and hug the Rebels.
HAN: Chewbacca is being enthusiastically embraced by an Ewok, while Wicket clings to Han's leg. HAN ( chuckles ) Well, short help is better than no help at all, Chewie. ( to Wicket ) Thank you. Okay.
THREEPIO: Chewie barks. Luke has drifted to the back of the hut. Now he wanders outside into the moonlight. Leia notices and follows.
HAN: and get our weapons back. Han pulls Threepio back as he keeps trying to translate. HAN ( cont ) And hurry up, will ya? I haven't got all day.
LEIA: Luke turns and looks at her a long moment.
LUKE: She was very beautiful. Kind, but.sad. ( looks up ) Why are you asking me all this? He looks away.
LEIA: She was very beautiful. Kind, but.sad. ( looks up ) Why are you asking me all this? He looks away.
LUKE: She was very beautiful. Kind, but.sad. ( looks up ) Why are you asking me all this? He looks away.
LEIA: She was very beautiful. Kind, but.sad. ( looks up ) Why are you asking me all this? He looks away.
LUKE: She was very beautiful. Kind, but.sad. ( looks up ) Why are you asking me all this? He looks away.
LEIA: She was very beautiful. Kind, but.sad. ( looks up ) Why are you asking me all this? He looks away.
LUKE: LEIA ( alarmed ) How do you know?
LEIA: LEIA ( alarmed ) How do you know?
LUKE: LEIA ( alarmed ) How do you know?
LUKE: That's why I have to go. ( facing her ) As long as I stay, I'm endangering the group and our mission here. ( beat ) I have to face him. Leia is distraught, confused.
LEIA: Luke moves close and his manner is gentle. And very calm.
LUKE: don't make it back, you're the only hope for the Alliance. Leia is very disturbed by this. She moves away, as if to deny it.
LEIA: don't make it back, you're the only hope for the Alliance. Leia is very disturbed by this. She moves away, as if to deny it.
LUKE: don't make it back, you're the only hope for the Alliance. Leia is very disturbed by this. She moves away, as if to deny it.
LEIA: could never have.
LUKE: use it as I have. The Force is strong in my family. My father has it.I have it.and.my sister has it. Leia stares into his eyes. What she sees there frightens her. But she doesn't draw away. She begins to understand.
LUKE: this place. I wish I could go with you.
LEIA: this place. I wish I could go with you.
LUKE: this place. I wish I could go with you.
LEIA: this place. I wish I could go with you.
LUKE: the Emperor. I can save him. I can turn him back to the good side. I have to try. They hold each other close and look at each other, brother and sister. Leia holds back her tears as Luke slowly lets her go and moves away. He disappears onto the walkway that leads out of the village. Leia, bathed in moonlight, watches him go as Han comes out of the Chief's hut and comes over to her. Leia is crying, her body trembling. He realizes only now that she is crying.
LEIA: the Emperor. I can save him. I can turn him back to the good side. I have to try. They hold each other close and look at each other, brother and sister. Leia holds back her tears as Luke slowly lets her go and moves away. He disappears onto the walkway that leads out of the village. Leia, bathed in moonlight, watches him go as Han comes out of the Chief's hut and comes over to her. Leia is crying, her body trembling. He realizes only now that she is crying.
LUKE: the Emperor. I can save him. I can turn him back to the good side. I have to try. They hold each other close and look at each other, brother and sister. Leia holds back her tears as Luke slowly lets her go and moves away. He disappears onto the walkway that leads out of the village. Leia, bathed in moonlight, watches him go as Han comes out of the Chief's hut and comes over to her. Leia is crying, her body trembling. He realizes only now that she is crying.
HAN: Leia attempts to stifle her sobs and wipes her eyes.
LEIA: HAN ( angry ) Nothing? Come on, tell me. What's goin' on? She looks up at him, struggling to control herself.
LEIA: HAN ( loses his temper ) Did you tell Luke? Is that who you could tell?
LEIA: He starts to walk away, exasperated, then stops and walks back to her.
HAN: He starts to walk away, exasperated, then stops and walks back to her.
HAN: Han gathers her tightly in his protective embrace.
LEIA: Han gathers her tightly in his protective embrace.
COMMANDER: believe there may be more of them, and I request permission to conduct a further search of the area. The commander extends his hand, revealing Luke's lightsaber.
COMMANDER: Vader looks at Luke, turns away and faces the commander, taking the lightsaber from the commander's hand.
VADER: companions to me.
COMMANDER: The officer and troops withdraw. Vader and Luke are left standing alone in the oddly tranquil beauty of the place. The sounds of the forest filter in upon them.
VADER: VADER ( turning to face him ) That name no longer has any meaning for me.
LUKE: VADER ( turning to face him ) That name no longer has any meaning for me.
VADER: VADER ( turning to face him ) That name no longer has any meaning for me.
LURE: VADER ( turning to face him ) That name no longer has any meaning for me.
LUKE: is good in you. The Emperor hasn't driven it from you fully. That is why you couldn't destroy me. That's why you won't bring me to your Emperor now. Vader looks down from Luke to the lightsaber in his own black- gloved hand. He seems to ponder Luke's words. VADER ( indicating lightsaber ) I see you have constructed a new lightsaber. Vader ignites the lightsaber and holds it to examine its humming, brilliant blade.
VADER: They stand for a moment, the Vader extinguishes the lightsaber.
LUKE: Luke steps close to Vader, then stops. Vader is still.
VADER: Luke steps close to Vader, then stops. Vader is still.
VADER: within you. Let go of your hate.
LUKE: within you. Let go of your hate.
VADER: within you. Let go of your hate.
LUKE: within you. Let go of your hate.
VADER: of the Force. He is your master now. Vader signals to some distant stormtroopers. He and Luke stand staring at one another for a long moment.
LUKE: 79 EXT ENDOR - RIDGE OVERLOOKING SHIELD GENERATOR Han, Leia, Chewbacca, the droids, Wicket, and another Ewok scout, PAPLOO, hide on a ridge overlooking the massive Imperial shield generator. At the base of the generator is an Imperial landing platform. Leia studies the installation.
LEIA: landing platform. This isn't gonna be easy.
HAN: guarded than this. Wicket and Paploo are chattering away in Ewok language. They speak to 80 EXT SPACE - REBEL FLEET The vast fleet hangs in space near a blue planet. A giant Rebel Star Cruiser is up at the front, but now the Millennium Flacon roars up to a spot ahead of it, tiny in comparison.
LEIA: 80 EXT SPACE - REBEL FLEET The vast fleet hangs in space near a blue planet. A giant Rebel Star Cruiser is up at the front, but now the Millennium Flacon roars up to a spot ahead of it, tiny in comparison.
THREEPIO: 80 EXT SPACE - REBEL FLEET The vast fleet hangs in space near a blue planet. A giant Rebel Star Cruiser is up at the front, but now the Millennium Flacon roars up to a spot ahead of it, tiny in comparison.
LANDO: ACKBAR ( VO ) Lando turns to his weird copilot.
LANDO: on time. ( to himself ) or this'll be the shortest offensive of all time. The copilot flips some switches and grunts an alien comment.
LANDO: He pulls a lever, and the stars outside begin to streak.
HAN: Wicket and Paploo continue their Ewok conversation. HAN ( cont ) It's only a few guards. This shouldn't be too much trouble.
LEIA: HAN ( with self-confident grin ) Then we'll do it real quiet-like. Threepio explains what is going on to Wicket and Paploo. The Ewoks chatter a moment between themselves. Then Paploo jumps up and scampers into the underbrush. Threepio asks Wicket where Paploo went and is given a short reply.
THREEPIO: 84 EXT BUNKER - ENTRANCE Paploo has slipped out of the undergrowth near where the Imperial scouts are lounging. He silently swings his furry ball of a body onto one of the scout's speeder bikes and begins flipping switches at random. Suddenly, the bike's engine fires up with a tremendous ROAR. Paploo grins and continues flipping switches. The scouts leap up in 85 EXT RIDGE Han, Leia and company watch in distress. Chewie barks. HAN ( sighs ) There goes our surprise attack.
LEIA: 84 EXT BUNKER - ENTRANCE Paploo has slipped out of the undergrowth near where the Imperial scouts are lounging. He silently swings his furry ball of a body onto one of the scout's speeder bikes and begins flipping switches at random. Suddenly, the bike's engine fires up with a tremendous ROAR. Paploo grins and continues flipping switches. The scouts leap up in 85 EXT RIDGE Han, Leia and company watch in distress. Chewie barks. HAN ( sighs ) There goes our surprise attack.
THREEPIO: 84 EXT BUNKER - ENTRANCE Paploo has slipped out of the undergrowth near where the Imperial scouts are lounging. He silently swings his furry ball of a body onto one of the scout's speeder bikes and begins flipping switches at random. Suddenly, the bike's engine fires up with a tremendous ROAR. Paploo grins and continues flipping switches. The scouts leap up in 85 EXT RIDGE Han, Leia and company watch in distress. Chewie barks. HAN ( sighs ) There goes our surprise attack.
LEIA: 84 EXT BUNKER - ENTRANCE Paploo has slipped out of the undergrowth near where the Imperial scouts are lounging. He silently swings his furry ball of a body onto one of the scout's speeder bikes and begins flipping switches at random. Suddenly, the bike's engine fires up with a tremendous ROAR. Paploo grins and continues flipping switches. The scouts leap up in 85 EXT RIDGE Han, Leia and company watch in distress. Chewie barks. HAN ( sighs ) There goes our surprise attack.
SCOUT: Three of the Imperial scouts jump on their rocket bikes and speed away in pursuit. The fourth watches them go from his post at the door.
HAN: We'll take care of this. Han and the Wookiee nod at each other and slip down toward the bunker. Threepio moves to stand next to Wicket and Artoo.
THREEPIO: 88 EXT FOREST Paploo sails through the trees, more lucky than in control. It's scary, but he loves it. When the Imperial scouts pull within sight behind him and begin firing laser bolts, he decides he's had enough. As he rounds a tree, out of their sight, Paploo grabs a vine and swings up into the trees. A moment later, the scouts tear under him in pursuit of the still-flying, unoccupied bike.
EMPEROR: Luke peers at the hooded figure defiantly. The Emperor then looks down at Luke's binders.
EMPEROR: The Emperor motions ever so slightly with his finger and Luke's binders fall away, clattering to the floor. Luke looks down at his own hands, free now to reach out and grab the Emperor's neck. He does nothing.
EMPEROR: The red-cloaked guards turn and disappear behind the elevator. EMPEROR ( to Luke ) I'm looking forward to completing your training. In time you will call me Master.
LUKE: The Emperor gets down from his throne and walks up very close to Luke. The Emperor looks into his eyes and, for the first time, Luke can perceive the evil visage within the hood.
EMPEROR: mistaken.about a great many things.
VADER: Vader extends a gloved hand toward the Emperor, revealing Luke's lightsaber. The Emperor takes it.
EMPEROR: your father can never be turned from the dark side. So will it be with The Emperor laughs.
LUKE: The Emperor laughs.
EMPEROR: Luke looks up sharply.
EMPEROR: Vader looks at Luke.
LUKE: The Emperor turns to face Luke. EMPEROR ( angry ) Everything that has transpired has done so according to my design. ( indicates Endor ) Your friends up there on the Sanctuary Moon. Luke reacts. The Emperor notes it. EMPEROR ( cont ) .are walking into a trap. As is your Rebel fleet! It was I who allowed the Alliance to know the location of the shield generator. It is quite safe from your pitiful little band. An entire legion of my best troops awaits them. Luke's look darts from the Emperor to Vader and, finally, to the sword in the Emperor's hand.
EMPEROR: The Emperor turns to face Luke. EMPEROR ( angry ) Everything that has transpired has done so according to my design. ( indicates Endor ) Your friends up there on the Sanctuary Moon. Luke reacts. The Emperor notes it. EMPEROR ( cont ) .are walking into a trap. As is your Rebel fleet! It was I who allowed the Alliance to know the location of the shield generator. It is quite safe from your pitiful little band. An entire legion of my best troops awaits them. Luke's look darts from the Emperor to Vader and, finally, to the sword in the Emperor's hand.
VADER: The Emperor turns to face Luke. EMPEROR ( angry ) Everything that has transpired has done so according to my design. ( indicates Endor ) Your friends up there on the Sanctuary Moon. Luke reacts. The Emperor notes it. EMPEROR ( cont ) .are walking into a trap. As is your Rebel fleet! It was I who allowed the Alliance to know the location of the shield generator. It is quite safe from your pitiful little band. An entire legion of my best troops awaits them. Luke's look darts from the Emperor to Vader and, finally, to the sword in the Emperor's hand.
EMPEROR: your friends arrive.
HAN: The Rebel troops herd the generator controllers away from their panels. Leia glances at one of the screens on the control panel.
LEIA: Outside, Threepio watches nervously in the bushes as several more controllers and stormtroopers run into the bunker, leaving guards at the door. THREEPIO ( to Wicket ) Oh, my! They'll be captured! Wicket chatters in Ewok language, and then takes off full steam into the forest.
HAN: Outside, Threepio watches nervously in the bushes as several more controllers and stormtroopers run into the bunker, leaving guards at the door. THREEPIO ( to Wicket ) Oh, my! They'll be captured! Wicket chatters in Ewok language, and then takes off full steam into the forest.
THREEPIO: Inside the bunker, Han looks up from setting charges as an Imperial commander enters.
COMMANDER: Han and Leia spin, to find dozens of Imperial weapons trained on them and their cohorts. A poised force of Imperial troops surround them. Even more pour into the room, roughly disarming the Rebel contingent. Han, Leia, and Chewie exchange looks. They're helpless.
LANDO: GRAY LEADER GREEN LEADER 94 INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE From the bridge of the Rebel Headquarters Frigate, Admiral Ackbar watches the fighters massing outside his viewscreen.
WEDGE: GRAY LEADER GREEN LEADER 94 INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE From the bridge of the Rebel Headquarters Frigate, Admiral Ackbar watches the fighters massing outside his viewscreen.
GRAY LEADER: GREEN LEADER 94 INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE From the bridge of the Rebel Headquarters Frigate, Admiral Ackbar watches the fighters massing outside his viewscreen.
GREEN LEADER: 94 INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE From the bridge of the Rebel Headquarters Frigate, Admiral Ackbar watches the fighters massing outside his viewscreen.
WEDGE: 94 INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE From the bridge of the Rebel Headquarters Frigate, Admiral Ackbar watches the fighters massing outside his viewscreen.
ACKBAR: 95 INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT Lando looks worriedly at his alien copilot, Nien Nunb, who points to the control panel and talks to Lando.
LANDO: or down. Well, how could they be jamming us if they don't know if we're coming. Lando shoots a concerned look out at the approaching Death Star as the implications of what he's just said sink in. He hits a switch on his RED LEADER ( VO ) The Falcon turns hard to the left. Out the window the stars and the Death Star move off right.
LANDO: RED LEADER ( VO ) The Falcon turns hard to the left. Out the window the stars and the Death Star move off right.
LANDO: The Falcon turns hard to the left. Out the window the stars and the Death Star move off right.
ACKBAR: A Mon Calamari controller turns away from his screen and calls out to Ackbar, quite excited. The Admiral rushes over to the controller.
CONTROLLER: On the screen can be seen the moon, Death Star, and the massive Imperial fleet. Ackbar moves to the comlink.
ACKBAR: LANDO ( over comlink ) Fighters coming in. There is much excitement on the bridge as the attack begins. The Millennium Falcon and several squads of Rebel fighters head into an armada of TIE fighters. The sky explodes as a fierce dogfight ensues in and around the giant Rebel cruisers.
REBEL PILOT: The battle continues around the giant cruisers.
LANDO: The battle continues around the giant cruisers.
WEDGE: The battle continues around the giant cruisers.
EMPEROR: The Emperor is sitting in his throne, with Vader standing at his side. Luke moves to look through a small section of the window.
EMPEROR: the end of your insignificant Rebellion. Luke is in torment. He glances at his lightsaber sitting on the armrest of the throne. The Emperor watches him and smiles, touches the Jedi weapon. Use it. I am unarmed. Strike me down with it. Give in to your anger. With each passing moment, you make yourself more my Vader watches Luke in his agony.
EMPEROR: Jedi weapon. Use it. I am unarmed. Strike me down with it. Give in to your anger. With each passing moment, you make yourself more my Vader watches Luke in his agony.
LUKE: 99 EXT FOREST - GENERATOR BUNKER Han, Leia, Chewie, and the rest of the strike team are led out of the bunker by their captors. The surrounding area, deserted before, is now crowded with two-legged Imperial walkers and hundreds of Imperial troops. The situation looks hopeless.
EMPEROR: 99 EXT FOREST - GENERATOR BUNKER Han, Leia, Chewie, and the rest of the strike team are led out of the bunker by their captors. The surrounding area, deserted before, is now crowded with two-legged Imperial walkers and hundreds of Imperial troops. The situation looks hopeless.
STORMTROOPER: From the undergrowth beyond the clearing comes a wild series of beeps and whistles. BUNKER COMMANDER Artoo and Threepio are standing near one of the big trees. As six Imperial stormtroopers rush over to take them captive, the two droids duck out of sight behind the tree.
THREEPIO: BUNKER COMMANDER Artoo and Threepio are standing near one of the big trees. As six Imperial stormtroopers rush over to take them captive, the two droids duck out of sight behind the tree.
BUNKER COMMANDER: Artoo and Threepio are standing near one of the big trees. As six Imperial stormtroopers rush over to take them captive, the two droids duck out of sight behind the tree.
STORMTROOPER: Artoo and Threepio are standing near one of the big trees. As six Imperial stormtroopers rush over to take them captive, the two droids duck out of sight behind the tree.
THREEPIO: The stormtroopers come around the tree and find the two droids waiting quietly to be taken. As the Imperial troops move to do that, however, a band of Ewoks drops down from above and overpowers them.
STORMTROOPER: The stormtroopers come around the tree and find the two droids waiting quietly to be taken. As the Imperial troops move to do that, however, a band of Ewoks drops down from above and overpowers them.
THREEPIO: The stormtroopers come around the tree and find the two droids waiting quietly to be taken. As the Imperial troops move to do that, however, a band of Ewoks drops down from above and overpowers them.
THREEPIO: In a nearby tree, an Ewok raises a horn to his lips and sounds the EWOK ATTACK CALL. All hell breaks loose as hundreds of Ewoks throw their fuzzy bodies into the fray against the assembled stormtroopers and their awesome two-legged walkers. Biker scouts dart about blasting Ewoks, only to be crushed by a volley of rocks tossed by Ewoks from the trees above. In the confusion of the battle, Han and Leia break away and dive for the cover of the bunker door as explosions erupt around them. Han goes to the bunker door control panel.
LEIA: LEIA ( into comlink ) Artoo, where are you? We need you at the bunker right away. Artoo and Threepio are hiding behind a log as the battle ragesaround them. Suddenly the stubby little astrodroid lets out a series of whistles and shoots off across the battlefield. Threepio, panicked, runs after him.
HAN: LEIA ( into comlink ) Artoo, where are you? We need you at the bunker right away. Artoo and Threepio are hiding behind a log as the battle ragesaround them. Suddenly the stubby little astrodroid lets out a series of whistles and shoots off across the battlefield. Threepio, panicked, runs after him.
THREEPIO: No, what! Artoo! Oh, this is no time for heroics. Come back! Biker scouts race around and over the two droids, blasting away at the little Ewoks as the furries scurry for cover. A group of Ewoks have moved a primitive catapult into position. They fire off a large boulder that hits one of the walkers. The walker turns and heads for the catapult, blasting away with both guns. The Ewoks abandon their weapons and flee in all directions. Just as the walker moves in to stomp the catapult, Ewoks drop vines restraining two huge logs that swing down and smash thewalker's head flat. A line of Ewoks hang desperately to a vine that is hooked to a walker's foot. As the walker moves along, the fuzzy creatures are dragged Two speeder bikes chase Ewoks through the underbrush. As the scouts round a tree, they are knocked off their bikes by a vinetied between two trees.
LANDO: RED TWO RED THREE Lando steers the Falcon through a complete flip, as his crew fires at the TIEs from the belly guns.
WEDGE: RED TWO RED THREE Lando steers the Falcon through a complete flip, as his crew fires at the TIEs from the belly guns.
RED TWO: RED THREE Lando steers the Falcon through a complete flip, as his crew fires at the TIEs from the belly guns.
RED THREE: Lando steers the Falcon through a complete flip, as his crew fires at the TIEs from the belly guns.
WEDGE: Lando steers the Falcon through a complete flip, as his crew fires at the TIEs from the belly guns.
NAVIGATOR: The copilot Nien Nunb chatters an observation.
LANDO: are waiting for.
COMMANDER: planned for them. We only need to keep them from escaping.
PIETT: planned for them. We only need to keep them from escaping.
COMMANDER: planned for them. We only need to keep them from escaping.
PIETT: planned for them. We only need to keep them from escaping.
EMPEROR: witness the firepower of this fully armed and operational battle ( into comlink ) Fire at will, Commander. Luke, in shock, looks out across the surface of the Death Star to the Rebel fleet beyond.
JERJERROD: 106 INT DEATH STAR - BLAST CHAMBER A button is pressed, which switches on a panel of lights. A hooded Imperial soldier reaches overhead and pulls a lever. A huge beam of light emanates from a long shaft. Two stormtroopers stand to one side at a control panel.
LANDO: ( into comlink ) Home One, this is Gold Leader.
ACKBAR: firepower of that magnitude.
LANDO: firepower of that magnitude.
ACKBAR: firepower of that magnitude.
LANDO: 111 EXT FOREST - GENERATOR BUNKER Artoo and Threepio make it to the door, as Han and Leia provide cover The little droid moves to the terminal and plugs in his computer arm. A large explosion hits near Artoo, knocking him head over heels, finally landing on his feet. The stubby astrodroid's head is spinning and smoldering. Suddenly there is a loud SPROOING and Han and Leia turn around to see Artoo with all his compartment doors open, and all of his appendages sticking out; water and smoke spurt out of the nozzles in his body. Han rushes to the terminal, as Threepio rushes to his wounded Ewoks in handmade, primitive hanggliders drop rocks onto the stormtroopers, divebombing their deadly adversaries. One is hit in the wing with laser fire and crashes. A walker lumbers forward, shooting laser blasts at frantic Ewoks running in all directions. Two Ewoks are struck down by laser blasts. One tries to awaken his friend, then realizes that he is dead.
THREEPIO: The little droid moves to the terminal and plugs in his computer arm. A large explosion hits near Artoo, knocking him head over heels, finally landing on his feet. The stubby astrodroid's head is spinning and smoldering. Suddenly there is a loud SPROOING and Han and Leia turn around to see Artoo with all his compartment doors open, and all of his appendages sticking out; water and smoke spurt out of the nozzles in his body. Han rushes to the terminal, as Threepio rushes to his wounded Ewoks in handmade, primitive hanggliders drop rocks onto the stormtroopers, divebombing their deadly adversaries. One is hit in the wing with laser fire and crashes. A walker lumbers forward, shooting laser blasts at frantic Ewoks running in all directions. Two Ewoks are struck down by laser blasts. One tries to awaken his friend, then realizes that he is dead.
HAN: The little droid moves to the terminal and plugs in his computer arm. A large explosion hits near Artoo, knocking him head over heels, finally landing on his feet. The stubby astrodroid's head is spinning and smoldering. Suddenly there is a loud SPROOING and Han and Leia turn around to see Artoo with all his compartment doors open, and all of his appendages sticking out; water and smoke spurt out of the nozzles in his body. Han rushes to the terminal, as Threepio rushes to his wounded Ewoks in handmade, primitive hanggliders drop rocks onto the stormtroopers, divebombing their deadly adversaries. One is hit in the wing with laser fire and crashes. A walker lumbers forward, shooting laser blasts at frantic Ewoks running in all directions. Two Ewoks are struck down by laser blasts. One tries to awaken his friend, then realizes that he is dead.
THREEPIO: The little droid moves to the terminal and plugs in his computer arm. A large explosion hits near Artoo, knocking him head over heels, finally landing on his feet. The stubby astrodroid's head is spinning and smoldering. Suddenly there is a loud SPROOING and Han and Leia turn around to see Artoo with all his compartment doors open, and all of his appendages sticking out; water and smoke spurt out of the nozzles in his body. Han rushes to the terminal, as Threepio rushes to his wounded Ewoks in handmade, primitive hanggliders drop rocks onto the stormtroopers, divebombing their deadly adversaries. One is hit in the wing with laser fire and crashes. A walker lumbers forward, shooting laser blasts at frantic Ewoks running in all directions. Two Ewoks are struck down by laser blasts. One tries to awaken his friend, then realizes that he is dead.
THREEPIO: Ewoks in handmade, primitive hanggliders drop rocks onto the stormtroopers, divebombing their deadly adversaries. One is hit in the wing with laser fire and crashes. A walker lumbers forward, shooting laser blasts at frantic Ewoks running in all directions. Two Ewoks are struck down by laser blasts. One tries to awaken his friend, then realizes that he is dead.
HAN: Ewoks in handmade, primitive hanggliders drop rocks onto the stormtroopers, divebombing their deadly adversaries. One is hit in the wing with laser fire and crashes. A walker lumbers forward, shooting laser blasts at frantic Ewoks running in all directions. Two Ewoks are struck down by laser blasts. One tries to awaken his friend, then realizes that he is dead.
LEIA: Ewoks in handmade, primitive hanggliders drop rocks onto the stormtroopers, divebombing their deadly adversaries. One is hit in the wing with laser fire and crashes. A walker lumbers forward, shooting laser blasts at frantic Ewoks running in all directions. Two Ewoks are struck down by laser blasts. One tries to awaken his friend, then realizes that he is dead.
ACKBAR: just take a few of them with us. The Rebel cruisers move very close to the Imperial Star Destroyers and begin to blast away at point-blank range. Tiny fighters race across the giant surfaces, against a backdrop of laser fire. The control tower of a Star Destroyer is under attack.
LANDO: just take a few of them with us. The Rebel cruisers move very close to the Imperial Star Destroyers and begin to blast away at point-blank range. Tiny fighters race across the giant surfaces, against a backdrop of laser fire. The control tower of a Star Destroyer is under attack.
REBEL PILOT: Y-WING PILOT The damaged Y-wing plummets toward the Star Destroyer, and crashes into the control tower, exploding.
EMPEROR: survive. There is no escape, my young apprentice. The Alliance will die.as will your friends. Luke's eyes are full of rage. Vader watches him.
EMPEROR: Strike me down with all your hatred, and your journey towards the dark side will be complete. Luke can resist no longer. The lightsaber flies into his hand. He ignites it in an instant and swings at the Emperor. Vader's lightsaber flashes into view, blocking Luke's blow before it can reach the Emperor. The two blades spark at contact. Luke turns to fight his 115 EXT FOREST The battle rages on. Stormtroopers fire on Ewoks with sophisticated weapons while their furry little adversaries sneak up behind the Imperial troopers and bash them over the head with large clubs. A walker marches through the undergrowth blasting Ewoks as it goes. An Ewok warrior gives the signal, and a pile of logs is cut loose. The logs tumble under the walker's feet, causing it to slip and slide until it finally topples over with a great crash. A scout bike races past and is lassoed with a heavy vine. The other end of the vine is tied to a tree, and the bike swings around in ever- tightening circles until it runs out of rope and crashes into the trees with a huge explosion. Chewie swings on a vine to the roof of one of the walkers. Two Ewoks cling to him. They land with a thud on the top of the lurching machine, then hang on for dear life. One of the Ewoks peeks through the window.
PILOT #2: The walker pilot opens the hatch to see what's going on. He is yanked out and tossed overboard before he can scream. The two Ewoks jump into the cockpit and knock the second pilot unconscious. The Ewoks are thrown violently as the mighty machine careens out of control. Outside, Chewie is almost knocked overboard; he sticks his head into the hatch with a series of angry barks. The Ewoks are too busy and frightened to listen to the Wookiee's complaint. Chewie slips inside the walker. Chewbacca's walker moves through the forest, firing laser blasts at unsuspecting stormtroopers, and destroying other Imperial walkers. The Ewoks shout and cheer as the giant machine helps turn the tide of the battle in their favor.
HAN: The three wires spark as the connection is made. With a LOUD WHOOSH, a second blast door crashes down in front of the first. Han frowns and turns back to the wires again. Leia exchanges shots with stormtroopers in the bushes, then suddenly cries out in pain, her shoulder hit by a laser blast.
THREEPIO: STORMTROOPER ( OS ) They freeze.
HAN: STORMTROOPER ( OS ) They freeze.
LEIA: STORMTROOPER ( OS ) They freeze.
THREEPIO: Leia holds her laser gun ready, behind Han, out of view of the two stormtroopers moving toward them. Han and Leia's eyes lock; the moment seems suspended in time.
STORMTROOPER: Leia holds her laser gun ready, behind Han, out of view of the two stormtroopers moving toward them. Han and Leia's eyes lock; the moment seems suspended in time.
HAN: Another shared look between them, as she smiles up at Han.
LEIA: Han stands up slowly and turns, revealing the gun in Leia's hand. She disposes of the stormtroopers in a flash. As Han turns back toward Leia, he looks up to see a giant walker approach and stand before him, its deadly weapons aimed right at him. HAN ( to Leia ) Stay back. The hatch on top of the walker opens and Chewie sticks his head out and barks triumphantly.
STORMTROOPER: Han stands up slowly and turns, revealing the gun in Leia's hand. She disposes of the stormtroopers in a flash. As Han turns back toward Leia, he looks up to see a giant walker approach and stand before him, its deadly weapons aimed right at him. HAN ( to Leia ) Stay back. The hatch on top of the walker opens and Chewie sticks his head out and barks triumphantly.
HAN: 117 INT EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM Luke and Vader are engaged in a man-to-man duel of lightsabers even more vicious then the battle on Bespin. But the young Jedi has grown stronger in the interim, and now the advantage shifts to him. Vader is forced back, losing his balance, and is knocked down the stairs. Luke stands at the top of the stairs, ready to attack. EMPEROR ( laughing ) Good. Use your aggressive feelings, boy! Let the hate flow through Luke looks momentarily toward the Emperor, then back to Vader, and realizes he is using the dark side. He steps back, turns off his lightsaber, and relaxes, driving the hate from his being.
VADER: Vader walks back up the stairs to Luke.
LUKE: Vader walks back up the stairs to Luke.
VADER: Vader attacks, forcing Luke on the defensive. The young Jedi leaps in an amazing reverse flip up to the safety of the catwalk overhead. Vader stands below him.
LUKE: you'll destroy me then you will meet your destiny. Vader throws the laser sword and it cuts through the supports holding the catwalk, then returns to Vader's hand. Luke tumbles to the ground in a shower of sparks and rolls out of sight under the Emperor's platform. Vader moves to find him. EMPEROR ( laughs ) Good. Good.
VADER: you'll destroy me then you will meet your destiny. Vader throws the laser sword and it cuts through the supports holding the catwalk, then returns to Vader's hand. Luke tumbles to the ground in a shower of sparks and rolls out of sight under the Emperor's platform. Vader moves to find him. EMPEROR ( laughs ) Good. Good.
LUKE: you'll destroy me then you will meet your destiny. Vader throws the laser sword and it cuts through the supports holding the catwalk, then returns to Vader's hand. Luke tumbles to the ground in a shower of sparks and rolls out of sight under the Emperor's platform. Vader moves to find him. EMPEROR ( laughs ) Good. Good.
VADER: then you will meet your destiny. Vader throws the laser sword and it cuts through the supports holding the catwalk, then returns to Vader's hand. Luke tumbles to the ground in a shower of sparks and rolls out of sight under the Emperor's platform. Vader moves to find him. EMPEROR ( laughs ) Good. Good.
LANDO: REBEL PILOT 119 INT BUNKER - CONTROL ROOM Controllers watch the main viewscreen on which a vague figure of an Imperial walker pilot can be seen. There is a great deal of static and HAN/PILOT ( VO ) the woods. We need reinforcements to continue the pursuit. The controllers cheer.
REBEL PILOT: 119 INT BUNKER - CONTROL ROOM Controllers watch the main viewscreen on which a vague figure of an Imperial walker pilot can be seen. There is a great deal of static and HAN/PILOT ( VO ) the woods. We need reinforcements to continue the pursuit. The controllers cheer.
WEDGE: 119 INT BUNKER - CONTROL ROOM Controllers watch the main viewscreen on which a vague figure of an Imperial walker pilot can be seen. There is a great deal of static and HAN/PILOT ( VO ) the woods. We need reinforcements to continue the pursuit. The controllers cheer.
LANDO: 119 INT BUNKER - CONTROL ROOM Controllers watch the main viewscreen on which a vague figure of an Imperial walker pilot can be seen. There is a great deal of static and HAN/PILOT ( VO ) the woods. We need reinforcements to continue the pursuit. The controllers cheer.
SECOND COMMANDER: 120 EXT FOREST - GENERATOR BUNKER As the door to the bunker opens and the Imperial troops rush out, they're surprised to find themselves surrounded by Rebels, their weapons pointed at them. Ewoks holding bows and arrows appear on the roof of the bunker. The Imperial troops throw down their guns as Han and Chewie rush inside the bunker with explosive charges.
HAN: 122 INT EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM Vader stalks the low-ceilinged area on the level below the throne, searching for Luke in the semi-darkness, his lightsaber held ready.
VADER: friends. Yes, your thoughts betray you. Your feelings for them are strong. Especially Vader stops and senses something. Luke shuts his eyes tightly, in her, too. Obi-Wan was wise to hide her from me. Now his failure is complete. If you will not turn to the dark side, then perhaps she will.
LUKE: friends. Yes, your thoughts betray you. Your feelings for them are strong. Especially Vader stops and senses something. Luke shuts his eyes tightly, in her, too. Obi-Wan was wise to hide her from me. Now his failure is complete. If you will not turn to the dark side, then perhaps she will.
VADER: friends. Yes, your thoughts betray you. Your feelings for them are strong. Especially Vader stops and senses something. Luke shuts his eyes tightly, in her, too. Obi-Wan was wise to hide her from me. Now his failure is complete. If you will not turn to the dark side, then perhaps she will.
VADER: her, too. Obi-Wan was wise to hide her from me. Now his failure is complete. If you will not turn to the dark side, then perhaps she will.
LUKE: Luke ignites his lightsaber and screams in anger, rushing at hisfather with a frenzy we have not seen before. Sparks fly as Luke and Vader fight in the cramped area. Luke's hatred forces Vader to retreat out of the low area and across a bridge overlooking a vast elevator shaft. Each stroke of Luke's sword drives his father further toward defeat. The Dark Lord is knocked to his knees, and as he raises his sword to block another onslaught, Luke slashes Vader's right hand off at the wrist, causing metal and electronic parts to fly from the mechanical stump. Vader's sword clatters uselessly away, over the edge of the platform and into the bottomless shaft below. Luke moves over Vader and holds the blade of his sword to the Dark Lord's throat. The Emperor watches with uncontrollable, pleased agitation.
EMPEROR: take your father's place at my side! Luke looks at his father's mechanical hand, then to his own mechanical, black-gloved hand, and realizes how much he is becoming like his father. He makes the decision for which he has spent a lifetime in preparation. Luke steps back and hurls his lightsaber away.
LUKE: I am a Jedi, like my father before me. The Emperor's glee turns to rage.
EMPEROR: 123 EXT FOREST - GENERATOR BUNKER Han and several of the fighters run out of the bunker and race across the clearing.
HAN: A shock wave knocks them flat as the bunker explodes, followed by a spectacular display as the huge shield-generator radar dish explodes along with the bunker.
ACKBAR: ( laughs ) Told you they'd do it! The Falcon, followed by several smaller Rebel fighters, heads toward the unfinished superstructure of the Death Star.
LANDO: ( laughs ) Told you they'd do it! The Falcon, followed by several smaller Rebel fighters, heads toward the unfinished superstructure of the Death Star.
EMPEROR: Blinding bolts of energy, evil lightning, shoot from the Emperor's hands at Luke. Even in his surprise, the young Jedi tries to use the Force to deflect them. At first he is half successful, but after a moment the bolts of energy are coming with such speed and power the young Jedi shrinks before them, his knees buckling. The wounded Vader struggles to his feet, and moves to stand at his master's side.
EMPEROR: Luke is almost unconscious beneath the continuing assault of the Emperor's lightning. He clutches a canister to keep from falling into the bottomless shaft as the bolts tear through him.
EMPEROR: have paid the price for your lack of vision. Luke writhes on the floor in unbearable pain, reaching weakly up toward where Vader stands watching. LUKE ( groans ) Father, please. Help me. Again Vader stands, watching Luke. He looks at his master, the Emperor, then back to Luke on the floor.
EMPEROR: Although it would not have seemed possible, the outpouring of bolts from the Emperor's fingers actually increases in intensity, the sound screaming through the room. Luke's body writhes in pain. Vader grabs the Emperor from behind, fighting for control of the robed figure despite the Dark Lord's weakened body and gravely weakened arm. The Emperor struggles in his embrace, his bolt-shooting hands now lifted high, away from Luke. Now the white lightning arcs back to strike at Vader. He stumbles with his load as the sparks rain off his helmet and flow down over his black cape. He holds his evil master high over his head and walks to the edge of the abyss at the central core of the throne room. With one final burst of his once awesome strength, Darth Vader hurls the Emperor's body into the bottomless shaft. The Emperor's body spins helplessly into the void, arcing as it falls into the abyss. Finally, when the body is far down the shaft, it explodes, creating a rush of air through the room.Vader's cape is whipped by the wind and he staggers, and collapses toward the bottomless hole. Luke crawls to his father's side and pulls him away from the edge of the abyss to safety. Both the young Jedi and the giant warrior are too weak to move.
WEDGE: Three X-wings lead the chase through the ever-narrowing shaft, followed by the Falcon and four other fighters, plus TIE fighters who continually fire at the Rebels. Lights reflect off the pilot's faces as they race through the dark shaft.
LANDO: Three X-wings lead the chase through the ever-narrowing shaft, followed by the Falcon and four other fighters, plus TIE fighters who continually fire at the Rebels. Lights reflect off the pilot's faces as they race through the dark shaft.
LANDO: The fighters and the Falcon race through the tunnel, still pursued by the TIE fighters. One of the X-wings is hit from behind and explodes.
WEDGE: The fighters and the Falcon race through the tunnel, still pursued by the TIE fighters. One of the X-wings is hit from behind and explodes.
LANDO: those TIE fighters to follow you.
PILOT: The Rebel ships peel off pursued by three of the TIE's, while Lando and Wedge continue through the main tunnel. It narrows, and the Falcon scrapes the side dangerously. Two other TIE fighters continue to blast away at them.
LANDO: Nien Nunb agrees. The battle between the Rebel and Imperial fleet rages on. Several cruisers fire at the giant Super Star Destroyer.
ACKBAR: that Super Star Destroyer. X-wings pilots head across the surface of the huge battleship.
CONTROLLER: The commander is looking out of the window where a damaged Rebel fighter is out of control and heading directly toward the bridge.
PIETT: The commander is looking out of the window where a damaged Rebel fighter is out of control and heading directly toward the bridge.
PIETT: The Rebel pilot screams as his ship hits the Star Destroyer, causing a huge explosion. The giant battle ship loses control, crashes into the Death Star, and explodes.
COMMANDER: The Rebel pilot screams as his ship hits the Star Destroyer, causing a huge explosion. The giant battle ship loses control, crashes into the Death Star, and explodes.
LURE: own eyes. Slowly, hesitantly, Luke removes the mask from his father's face. There beneath the scars is an elderly man. His eyes do not focus. But the dying man smiles at the sight before him. ANAKIN ( very weak ) Now.go, my son. Leave me.
VADER: own eyes. Slowly, hesitantly, Luke removes the mask from his father's face. There beneath the scars is an elderly man. His eyes do not focus. But the dying man smiles at the sight before him. ANAKIN ( very weak ) Now.go, my son. Leave me.
LUKE: were right.
ANAKIN: were right.
LUKE: Darth Vader, Anakin Skywalker.Luke's father, dies. A huge explosion rocks the docking bay. Slowly, Luke rises and, half carrying, half dragging the body of his father, stumbles toward a 131 EXT DEATH STAR The Millennium Falcon leads a swerving bomb run through the immense superstructure of the half-built Death Star. The Rebel Star Cruisers outside continually bombard the huge station. And each direct hit is answered by resonating, chain-reaction explosions within the station 132 INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT AND GUN PORTS Lando's crew fires away at the pursuing TIE fighters as the dashing Baron of Bespin and his alien copilot home in on the main reactor shaft. It is awesome. A lone X-wing is just in front of the Falcon.
WEDGE: The X-wing heads for the top of the huge reactor and fires several proton torpedoes at the power regulator, causing a series of small The Falcon heads for the main reactor, and when it is dangerously close, Lando fires the missiles, which shoot out of the Falcon with a powerful roar, and hit directly at the center of the main reactor. He maneuvers the Falcon out of the winding superstructure just ahead of the continuing chain of explosions.
LANDO: The X-wing heads for the top of the huge reactor and fires several proton torpedoes at the power regulator, causing a series of small The Falcon heads for the main reactor, and when it is dangerously close, Lando fires the missiles, which shoot out of the Falcon with a powerful roar, and hit directly at the center of the main reactor. He maneuvers the Falcon out of the winding superstructure just ahead of the continuing chain of explosions.
WEDGE: The X-wing heads for the top of the huge reactor and fires several proton torpedoes at the power regulator, causing a series of small The Falcon heads for the main reactor, and when it is dangerously close, Lando fires the missiles, which shoot out of the Falcon with a powerful roar, and hit directly at the center of the main reactor. He maneuvers the Falcon out of the winding superstructure just ahead of the continuing chain of explosions.
ACKBAR: 134 EXT DEATH STAR An Imperial shuttle, with Luke alone in the cockpit, rockets out of the main docking bay as that entire section of the Death Star is blown Finally, just as it looks like the Falcon will not make it, Lando expertly pilots the craft out of the exploding superstructure and whizzes toward the Sanctuary Moon, only a moment before the Death Star supernovas into oblivion.
THREEPIO: Han looks town from the sky to Leia, a look of concern on his face. Leia continues to look at the sky as though listening for a silent Leia smiles, puzzled.
HAN: Leia smiles, puzzled.
LEIA: Leia smiles, puzzled.
HAN: Leia smiles, puzzled.
LEIA: She realizes his misunderstanding.
HAN: She realizes his misunderstanding.
LEIA: Han is stunned by this news. She smiles, and they embrace.
FADE OUT: END CREDITS OVER STAR FIELD Writers : George Lucas Lawrence Kasdan
