SHOOTING SCRIPT: July 19, 1978
KLINGON CAPTAIN: ( Give me tactical. )
KLINGON CAPTAIN: ( In Klingonese )
KLINGON CAPTAIN: ( In Klingonese ) Tactical again. Stand by on
KLINGON CAPTAIN: ( quickly; Klingonese ) Full force fields; evasive
KLINGON CAPTAIN: ( In Klingonese ) . severely damaged. Returning
KLINGON CAPTAIN: ( In Klingonese ) Imperial Klingon Cruiser Amar. severely damaged by unfamiliar weaponry. intruder unidentified..
LIEUTENANT: Our sensor drone is intercepting this on Quad L-14.
BRANCH: That's within Klingon boundaries. Who are they fighting?
LIEUTENANT: Unknown, sir.
TECHNICIAN: I have an exterior visual!
LIEUTENANT: We've plotted a course on that cloud, Commander: it will pass into Federation Space fairly close to us.
BRANCH: 27 CLOSE ON THE MAIN MONITOR STATION ( O ) 27
LIEUTENANT'S VOICE: Sir, it's on a precise heading for Earth.
MALE MASTER: ( chidingly ) Spock . . . ! Here are these sands, our fore- bearers cast out their animal passions. Here our race was saved by the first attainment of Kolinahr: the final shedding of all emotion.
FEMALE MASTER: Here are these sands, our fore- bearers cast out their animal passions. Here our race was saved by the first attainment of Kolinahr: the final shedding of all emotion.
MALE MASTER: Kolinahr: the final shedding of all emotion.
FEMALE MASTER: You have labored long, Spock. Now receive from us this symbol of total logic.
FEMALE MASTER: ( gestures Spock forward ) Come, give me your thoughts.
FEMALE MASTER: ( continuing ) Our minds, Spock. One and
FEMALE MASTER: ( continuing; sadly ) This consciousness which calls it stirs your human half, Spock? You have not achieved Kolinahr Your human emotions are not fully ( turns to the other Masters ) He will not achieve his goal with us. His answer lies elsewhere.
KIRK: Commander Sonak. !
KIRK: ( continuing ) You've received your appointment as Enterprise Science Officer?
SONAK: ( nods ) Based, I am told, on your recommendation, Admiral. Thank Why aren't you on board?
KIRK: Why aren't you on board?
SONAK: Captain Decker requested I complete final Science briefing here before.
KIRK: ( interrupting ) Here at Starfleet.? The Enterprise is in final preparation to leave dock.
SONAK: Which will require twenty more hours at minimum, Admiral.
KIRK: Twelve! I'm on my way to a meeting with Admiral Nogura which will not last more than three minutes. Report to me on the Enterprise in one hour.
SONAK: To you, sir?
KIRK: I intend to be there following that meeting. Report to me. One
SCOTT: Admiral, I've been hoping to see you. Maybe you can get through to those thick heads in Starfleet Why aren't the Enterprise transporters in operation, Mister We're hoping it's only a temporary problem, Admiral.
KIRK: Why aren't the Enterprise transporters in operation, Mister We're hoping it's only a temporary problem, Admiral.
SCOTT: We're hoping it's only a temporary problem, Admiral.
KIRK: See that it is. Take me over, please.
SCOTT: ( carefully ) Admiral, the Enterprise has just finished eighteen months redesign- ing and refitting. She needs testing, a shakedown.
KIRK: Mr. Scott, there's an alien object with unbelievable destructive power less than three days away from this planet.
KIRK: ( continuing ) . the only Starship in interception range is the Enterprise! Ready, or not, she launches in twelve hours!
SCOTT: The crew hasn't had near enough transition time with all the new equipment. And the engines, Admiral: they've yet to be even tested at warp power. Add to that, an untried Captain.
KIRK: ( hint of smile ) Two and a half years as Chief of Starfleet Operations may have made me a little stale, Mr. Scott but I wouldn't exactly consider myself 'untried.'
KIRK: ( continuing ) They gave her back to me, Scotty. "Gave' her back, sir.? I doubt it was that easy. ( returns smile ) But any man who could manage such a feat, I wouldna dare disappoint. She'll launch on time, sir. ( with confidence ) And she'll be ready.
SCOTT: "Gave' her back, sir.? I doubt it was that easy. But any man who could manage such a feat, I wouldna dare disappoint. She'll launch on time, sir. And she'll be ready.
ENSIGN: Granted, sir. Welcome aboard, Admiral. Commander Scott, you're needed in Engineering Sir, you'll excuse me.?
SCOTT: ( to Kirk ) Sir, you'll excuse me.?
ENSIGN: ( nervous ) Sir, if you'll follow me, I'll.
KIRK: I think I can find my way,
KIRK: The turbo-elevator HUMS WITH POWER as it begins hur- tling up. On the wall back of Kirk we SEE an electronic diagram of the Enterprise tracking the elevator's speedy trip to the Bridge.
UHURA: Captain. Starfleet just signaled your transfer-of- command orders!
KIRK: I appreciate the welcome; I wish the circumstances were less Epsilon Nine is monitoring the intruder; keep a channel open to Where is Captain Decker?
SULU: He's in Engineering, sir. He doesn't know.
KIRK: Mr Chekov, assemble the crew on the Rec Deck at 0400 hours. I want to show them what we're
SULU: I wouldn't have wanted to have been standing in his way. He wanted her back; he got her!
ALIEN ENSIGN: ( perturbed ) And Captain Decker? He's been with the ship every minute of her refitting.
UHURA: ( brittle ) Ensign our chances of coming back from this mission in one piece may have just doubled.!
DECKER: ( quietly elated ) I thought so! See. the trans- porter sensor was not activated.
SCOTT: ( impressed ) Aye, you were dead right about ( to Technician ) Clearly, put a back-up sensor into the unit.
DECKER: Admiral Kirk. We're getting a top brass send She'll launch on schedule if we have to tow her out with our bare hands. Right, Scotty?
SCOTTY: ( lamely ) Aye, sir, that we will.
KIRK: ( to Decker ) Will, let's go over here and
DECKER: Let me now when the back-up is in place.
DECKER: All due respect, sir, I hope this isn't a Starfleet pep talk; I'm just too busy.
KIRK: I'm taking over the Center seat. I'm sorry, Will.
DECKER: You are what.?
KIRK: I'm replacing you as Captain of the Enterprise.
KIRK: ( continuing ) You'll stay aboard as Executive Officer. a temporary grade reduction to Commander.
DECKER: ( finding his voice ) You, personally, are assuming May I ask Why?
KIRK: May I ask Why?
DECKER: May I ask Why?
KIRK: ( nods ) My experience five years out there dealing with unknowns like this my familiarity with the Enterprise, this crew.
DECKER: Admiral, this is an almost totally new enterprise. You don't know her a tenth as well as I do.
ROOM ): Scott, working on the relay, but continually glancing at Kirk and Decker with worried concern, as Kirk
KIRK: That's why you're staying aboard. I'm sorry, Will.
DECKER: No, Admiral. I don't think you are; not one damned bit. I remember when you recommended me for this command. You told me how envious you were, and if only you could find a way to get a starship command again. Well, sir, it looks like you found a way.
KIRK: Report to the bridge, Commander.
SCOTT: Transporter room, do not engage! Do not..
RAND: ( into intercom ) Starfleet, override us! OVERRIDE.! Yank them back!
STARFLEET VOICE: Unable to retrieve their pattern,
SCOTT: We're losing the pattern.!
KIRK: ( into intercom ) Starfleet, boost your matter gain; we need more signal!
RAND: Oh, no! They're forming!
KIRK: Oh, my God.!
KIRK: ( into intercom ) Starfleet, do you have them?
STARFLEET VOICE: ( shaken ) Enterprise. what we got back didn't live long. Fortunately.
KIRK: Starfleet. Kirk. Please. express my condolences to their families. Commander Sonak's can be reached through the Vulcan There was nothing you could have done, Rand. It wasn't your fault.
KIRK: Turboshaft eight.?
YEOMAN: Back that way, sir.
KIRK: We'll have to replace Commander Sonak. I'd still like a Vulcan there, if possible.
DECKER: None available, Captain. There's no one in fact, who's fully rated on this design.
KIRK: You are, Mister Decker. I'm afraid you'll have to double as Science Officer. And Kirk moves on, Decker stands gazing reflectively after him.
KIRK: That's all we know about it; except that it's now 2.2 days from Earth. Enterprise is the only Federation starship that stands in its way.
BRIDGE VOICE: ( from intercom ) Bridge to Captain. Priority signal from Epsilon Nine
KIRK: Put it on the viewer here.!
BRANCH: ( from the viewer; Enterprise. the Cloud is definitely a powerfield of some kind. Measures. My God! Over 82 A.U.'s in diameter. Must be something incredible inside there generating it. ( looks up from We're transmitting linguacode friendship messages on all frequencies. No response.
TECHNICIAN: I have a null reading at the center of the 'cloud,' sir.
LIEUTENANT: Definitely something inside.. there but all scans are being reflected back. Receiving an odd pattern now.. They seem to be reacting to our scans, sir.
BRANCH: ( inspecting another Some kind of energy surge. ( looking up ) Enterprise. they could be mistaking our scans as a hostile act. ( reacts at readings ) Deflectors, emergency full!
BRANCH: ( continuing ) We are under attack.!
KIRK: ( to Uhura ) External view.!
KIRK: Pre-launch countdown will commence in forty minutes.
UHURA: Transporters Room and Chief Engineer Scott report trans- porter system fully repaired and now functioning normally, Dock signals clear, Captain.
SULU: Dock signals clear, Captain.
KIRK: Rely we are holding position awaiting final crew replacements.
UHURA: Captain, Transporter Personnel reports the Navigator. . Lieutenant Junior Grade Ilia ( Eye-lee-ah ) is already aboard, and en route to the bridge.
UHURA: She's a Deltan.
KIRK: ( reprovingly ) And there are no finer navigators in Starfleet, Commander.
ILIA: Lieutenant Ilia reporting for duty, sir.
KIRK: ( formally; rising ) Welcome aboard, Lieutenant.
DECKER: Hello, Ilia.
ILIA: ( surprised )
DECKER: I was stationed on the Lieutenant's home planet some years ago.
ILIA: ( eyes his rank 'Commander' Decker?
KIRK: Our Exec and Science Officer.
DECKER: ( bitingly ) Captain Kirk has the utmost confidence in me.
KIRK: ( pointedly ) And in you, too, Lieutenant.
ILIA: My oath of celibacy is on record Captain. May I assume my duties?
KIRK: By all means.
UHURA: Captain, Starfleet reports our last six crew members ready to beam up. . but one of them is refusing to step into the transporter.
KIRK: ( pleased ) Oh? I'll see that he beams up.!
DECKER: Mr. Sulu, take Lieutenant Ilia in hand.
SULU: ( startled ) ( then understands ) Yes, of course. ( to Ilia ) Your pre-programming is already set in, Lieutenant. I'm sworn to celibacy, Mister Sulu. That makes me as safe as any human female.
ILIA: I'm sworn to celibacy, Mister Sulu. That makes me as safe as any human female.
DECKER: I now the Captain meant no person- al insult.
ILIA: ( eyes on console ) I would never take advantage of a sexually immature species. ( looks at him ) You can assure him that's true, can't you?
KIRK: Yeoman, what was the problem down there?
YEOMAN: ( through intercom ) He insisted we go first, sir. Said something about first seeing how it scrambled our molecules.
KIRK: Thank you, Yeoman Starfleet , this is Captain Kirk. The officer is to be beamed up
KIRK: Well, for a man who swore he'd never return to Starfleet. What happened, Captain, sir, was that your revered Admiral Nogura invoked a little known and seldom used reserve activation . in simpler language, Captain, sir, they drafted me!
KIRK: ( straight-faced ) They didn't.! This was your idea! It was your idea, wasn't it!
KIRK: Bones, there's a 'thing' out Why is any object we don't understand called a 'thing'?
KIRK: ( continues ) headed this way. I need you.
KIRK: ( nods ) Bones, I need you badly. Permission to come aboard, sir?
RAND: ( elated ) Permission granted, sir! I hear Chapel's an MD now; I need a top nurse, not a doctor who'll argue every diagnosis. ( continuing ) . they've probably redesigned sickbay, too. Engineers love to change things.
KIRK: All decks, this is the Captain. Prepare or immediate departure.
UHURA: Dock control reports ready, sir.
SULU: Helm ready, sir.
ILIA: Orbital departure on plot, sir.
UHURA: Yard command signaling clear, Maneuvering thrusters, Mister Maneuvering thrusters, sir.
KIRK: Maneuvering thrusters, Mister Maneuvering thrusters, sir.
SULU: Maneuvering thrusters, sir.
KIRK: Hold station.
SULU: ( working controls ) Thrusters at station-keeping, sir.
KIRK: Thrusters ahead, Mister Sulu. Take us out.
SCOTT: Intermix set, Bridge, impulse power at your discretion.
KIRK: ( after a moment ) Impulse power, Mr Sulu. Ahead Warp point-five.
KIRK: Departure angle on viewer.
CHEKOV: Departure angle.
KIRK: Viewer ahead.
DECKER: Captain, assuming we have full Warp capability, accelerating to Warp Seven on leaving solar system will bring us to IP with the Intruder in twenty point one hours.
ILIA: Science Officer's computations confirmed, sir.
KIRK: Well, Bones, do the new medical facilities meet with your They do not. It's like working in a damned computer center.
KIRK: ( turning to Decker ) Programming ready?
DECKER: Program set for standard Warp entry, Captain.
DECKER: ( continuing ) . but I still recommend further simulation study.
KIRK: Mister Decker; every minute brings that object nearer Earth! Engineering! Stand by for Warp Drive.
KIRK: Engineer, we need Warp speed now! You're pushing Jim. Your people know their jobs.
SCOTT: ( into intercom ) Hold one minute, please, Captain
SCOTT: ( grim ) Aye, lad. ( into intercom ) It's borderline on the simulator, Captain: I canna guarantee that
KIRK: Warp Drive, Mr Scott. Ahead Warp One, Mr Sulu.
KIRK: ( continuing ) Ahead Warp One, Mr Sulu.
SULU: Accelerating to Warp One, sir.
SULU: ( continuing ) Warp point seven. point eight . nine.
SULU: Warp One, sir.
KIRK: Mr. Decker
KIRK: ( continuing ) Wormhole!. Get us back on impulse power! Full reverse!
SULU: Negative helm control, Captain! Going reverse on impulse power.!
UHURA: Subspace frequencies are jammed by Wormhole effect!
COMPUTER VOICE: ( terse, flat ) Collision alert.! Collision alert.!
DECKER: ( consulting his viewer ) Negative control from inertial lag will continue 22 point five seconds before forward velocity slows to sub-light speed.
ILIA: Unidentified small object has been pulled into the wormhole with us, Captain! Directly Forcefields up full! Put object on viewer.!
KIRK: Forcefields up full! Put object on viewer.!
ILIA: Navigational deflectors Directional control also inoperative, Captain.!
DECKER: Wormhole distortion has over- loaded main power systems.!
KIRK: ( toward Ilia ) Time to impact.?
ILIA: Twelve seconds.!
KIRK: Mr. Chekov, stand by on the Delay that phaser order! Arm photon torpedoes.!
DECKER: ( racing to Chekov's Delay that phaser order! Arm photon torpedoes.!
CHEKOV: Photon torpedoes armed.!
ILIA: Object is an asteroid, reading mass point seven. Impact in eight seconds. seven. six. five.
DECKER: Fire torpedoes.!
CHEKOV: ( punching button ) Torpedoes away.!
CHEKOV: ( relieved ) We're out of it.!
DECKER: We are at warp point eight. Position report, Navigator..?
SULU: Helm control restored, sir.
ILIA: Computing new interception Communications are normal, Negative damage report, sir. No casualties reported, sir. Wrong, Mr. Chekov, there are casualties. My wits! As in 'frightened-out-of'.!
UHURA: Communications are normal, Negative damage report, sir. No casualties reported, sir. Wrong, Mr. Chekov, there are casualties. My wits! As in 'frightened-out-of'.!
CHEKOV: ( to Kirk ) Negative damage report, sir. ( to McCoy ) No casualties reported, sir. ( tight ) Wrong, Mr. Chekov, there are casualties. My wits! ( to Kirk, indignant ) As in 'frightened-out-of'.!
DECKER: ( into intercom ) Engineer. report status there.
SCOTT: In just a second, Exec; we're picking up the pieces down here.
KIRK: Warp Drive as soon as possible, Mr. Scott.
KIRK: That object out there is less than two days from Earth, Mister Scott. We've got to intercept while it still is out there!
KIRK: Mr. Decker, I'd like to see you in my quarters. You have the conn, Mr. Sulu. Mind if I tag along?
SULU: Maintaining warp point eight; I show our new heading as 287 point three Mark 105.
SULU: ( continuing; gently Lieutenant Ilia.?
ILIA: ( a beat; then Confirmed, Mr. Sulu. Confirmed.
KIRK: Explanation, Mr. Decker: Why was my phaser order countermanded?
DECKER: ( cool, polite ) Sir, the Enterprise redesign increases phaser power by channeling it through the main engines. When they went into anti-matter imbalance, the phasers were automatically cut
KIRK: Then you acted properly, of course.
DECKER: Thank you, sir. I'm sorry I embar- rassed you.
KIRK: You saved the ship.
DECKER: ( coolly ) I'm aware of that, sir.
KIRK: ( flaring ) Stop competing with me, Decker!
DECKER: Permission to speak freely, sir?
KIRK: ( tight ) Sir, you haven't logged a single star hour in two and a half years. That, plus your unfamiliarity with the ship's design in my opinion, sir, seriously jeopardizes our mission. I trust you will. nursemaid me through these difficulties, Mister?
DECKER: Sir, you haven't logged a single star hour in two and a half years. That, plus your unfamiliarity with the ship's design in my opinion, sir, seriously jeopardizes our mission. I trust you will. nursemaid me through these difficulties, Mister?
KIRK: I trust you will. nursemaid me through these difficulties, Mister?
DECKER: Yes, sir, I'll do that. Then I won't keep you from your duties any longer, Commander. Yes, Doctor? He may not be wrong, Jim.
KIRK: Then I won't keep you from your duties any longer, Commander. Yes, Doctor? He may not be wrong, Jim.
ILIA: Was he difficult?
DECKER: No more than I expected Not as difficult as this. I'm That you left? or that you didn't say 'goodbye'?
ILIA: That you left? or that you didn't say 'goodbye'?
DECKER: If I'd seen you again, would you have been able to say it?
ILIA: ( long hesitation;
KIRK: Get out of here, Bones. As ship's doctor, I am now discussing the subject of command fitness.
KIRK: Make your point, Doctor. The point, Captain, is that it's you who's competing. You pulled every string in the book short of blackmail to get the Enterprise maybe even that. And when this mission is over, you have no intention of giving her back.
KIRK: ( tight ) I intend to keep her, is that what you're saying, Doctor? It's an obsession that can blind you so far more immediate and critical responsibilities. Your reaction to Decker is an
KIRK: Viewer on.
KIRK: For what purpose?
CHEKOV: It is a courier, Captain. Grade One priority. Non-belligerency Very well, Mr. Chekov, see to it. Viewer off.
KIRK: Very well, Mr. Chekov, see to it. Viewer off.
KIRK: ( continuing ) Your. opinion has been noted, ( beat ) Is there anything further? I hope not.
SPOCK: Permission to come aboard, sir?
CHEKOV: Granted, sir! Granted!
KIRK: Spock.! Spock,
SPOCK: Commander, if I may.?
SPOCK: I have been monitoring your Starfleet transmissions, Captain, your engine design difficulties.
SPOCK: ( continuing ) I offer my services as Science
KIRK: If our Executive Officer has no Of course not. I'm aware of Mister Spock's qualifications.
DECKER: ( interrupting ) Of course not. I'm aware of Mister Spock's qualifications.
KIRK: ( grinning openly now; Mister Chekov, log Mister Spock's Starfleet commission reactivated; list him as Science Officer; both effective immediately.
CHAPEL: Mr. Spock.!!! So help me, I'm actually pleased to see you.
UHURA: That's how we
SPOCK: With your permission, I will now discuss these fuel equations with the Engineer.
KIRK: Mister Spock, Never look a gift Vulcan in the ears, Jim.
SULU: Warp point eight. point nine.
SULU: ( continuing ) Warp one, sir.
SULU: ( continuing ) Warp two, sir. warp three.
SPOCK: Reporting as ordered, Captain.
KIRK: Sit down, please.
SPOCK: Sir, I would appreciate Dr. McCoy absenting himself from this I want him here. Sit down!
KIRK: I want him here. Sit down!
KIRK: You've reported that you felt strong thought emotions. A group of minds from a space vessel? Could you make out any plan, anything to do with Negative, Captain. I could sense only what seemed an almost omniscient pattern of perfect logic. I can explain nothing more; I understand nothing more.
SPOCK: ( still formally ) Negative, Captain. I could sense only what seemed an almost omniscient pattern of perfect logic. I can explain nothing more; I understand nothing more.
KIRK: Also there was nothing in your report about why you're here.
SPOCK: That inquiry invades my personal life, Captain. Spock, we've already guessed why you're here.
KIRK: I inquired about you learned you were studying with the That flicker of emotion confirms our guess. You failed.
SPOCK: ( facing McCoy for Your deductions do you credit, Doctor. if your puerile curiosity does not. ( not in amusement ) And now, anger, Spock?
SPOCK: ( beat; nods ) I still contain fragments of my human half.
KIRK: And whatever you sensed out here..
SPOCK: . is my only hope of accomplishing what the Masters could not. If you achieve perfect logic, Spock, you'll pay a price. It's given your planet ten thousand years of peace, but no poetry's been written since then, no music.
KIRK: Let it drop, Bones. You are my Science Officer I'll expect an immediate report on anything further you learn or sense from here on.
SPOCK: I have accepted service here as a Starfleet officer. sir.
KIRK: ( nods ) I know this has been painful, Spock. For me too. Thank you.
CHEKOV'S VOICE: Red alert! Red alert!
KIRK: Full mag on viewer!
KIRK: ( continuing ) Continuing friendship messages on all frequencies, sir.
UHURA: Continuing friendship messages on all frequencies, sir.
CHEKOV: All decks and divisions confirm status red.
SPOCK: ( flat, impassive ) We are being scanned, Captain.
KIRK: It may be misinterpreted as Intruder scans emanate from the exact cloud center. Energy of a type entirely un- known to me.
SPOCK: Intruder scans emanate from the exact cloud center. Energy of a type entirely un- known to me.
UHURA: ( after a moment ) No response to friendship messages, Captain.
CHEKOV: Should I go to battle stations, Negative, We'll take no prov- ocative action.
KIRK: Negative, We'll take no prov- ocative action.
DECKER: Recommend defensive posture, Captain: Screens and shields.
KIRK: ( pause ) . that could also be misinter- preted as hostile, Mr. Decker. ( to Spock ) Cloud composition, Mr. Spock?
SPOCK: Twelve power energy field
SULU: ( in disbelief ) twelve power?!
DECKER: ( urgently ) Captain, we've seen what their weapons can do. Shouldn't we take every possible precaution ?
KIRK: Mr Decker..
SPOCK: ( interrupting ) Captain, I suspect there's an object at the heart of that cloud.
KIRK: ( cool ) Mr. Decker, I will not provoke an attack, If that order isn't clear to you.
DECKER: ( interrupting in mid Captain, as your Exec, it's my duty to point out alternatives.
ILIA: Five minutes to Cloud boundary!
KIRK: ( a look ) I stand corrected Mr. Decker. ( toward Ilia ) Navigator, lay in a conic section flight path into the cloud center; bring us parallel to whatever we find in there.
DECKER: That measures Ten thousands of starships couldn't generate that much.
SPOCK: They have. they communicating with us. I sense . puzzlement. Why have we not replied?
KIRK: Communicated with us
DECKER: Signal medical alert, Mister Incoming fire. Ahead. Zero, . mark, zero. Incoming fire. Ahead. Zero, mark, zero.
COMPUTER VOICE: Incoming fire. Ahead. Zero, . mark, zero. Incoming fire. Ahead. Zero, mark, zero.
CHEKOV: Forcefields and deflectors up full, Captain.
SCOTT: Bypass.! Alternate
SULU: The new screens held.!
ILIA: No, I can stop his pain.
SPOCK: Captain, the Intruder attempting to communicate! Now placing their transmission on the speaker.
SPOCK: ( continuing ) . frequency more than one million megahertz at such high speed their entire message lasts only a millisecond.
SPOCK: I suspect our messages were too slow for them to be noticed. Programming computer to send linguacode at their rate.
SULU: Here it comes.!
COMPUTER VOICE: Incoming fire. Ahead, zero, mark, zero, point two. Incoming fire. Ahead, zero, zero, mark, zero.
KIRK: ( into intercom ) Engineering. what's happening to our forcefields?!
SCOTT: Systems are overloading, Captain! Our shields cannot handle another
KIRK: ( desperately ) Mr. Spock?
ILIA: Impact in fifteen seconds.
KIRK: Transmit, Mr. Spock! Now!
ILIA: Ten seconds..
DECKER: ILIA'S VOICE
ILIA'S VOICE: . five seconds.
SPOCK: It appears that our message has been understood, Captain.
KIRK: ( to Uhura ) Any reply from them?
UHURA: Negative, no reply, sir.
KIRK: ( returning to Spock ) Spock, have you sensed anything
SPOCK: The 'puzzlement' I sensed was fleeting. minor. . as if carrying a sense of our insignificance, Captain.
KIRK: Our. 'insignificance'?
SPOCK: We are obviously confronted by a highly advanced mentality. yet they cannot understand who we are, or what we want.
KIRK: But they understood our messages; they broke off the attack.
DECKER: They may have attacked only as a warning to us, Captain. To keep away.
SPOCK: That would presuppose a feeling, Commander. compassion. I sensed no emotion, only. . pure logic.
KIRK: Tactical plot on viewer.
ILIA: Thirty seconds to Cloud Opinion, Mister. Spock?
KIRK: Opinion, Mister. Spock?
SPOCK: Recommend we proceede, Captain.
KIRK: Mr. Decker. ?
DECKER: I advise caution, Captain; we can't withstand another attack.
KIRK: That thing is twenty hours from Earth. We know nothing about it yet.
DECKER: That's precisely the point, Captain. We don't know it will do. Moving into the cloud at this time, is an unwarranted gamble.
KIRK: How do you define You asked my opinion, sir.
DECKER: You asked my opinion, sir.
ILIA: Fifteen seconds to Cloud Boundary.
KIRK: Viewer, standard ahead.
KIRK: ( to Helm ) Mr. Sulu, steady as she goes.
SULU: Aye, sir.
KIRK: ( staring at viewer, No vessel could generate a powerfield of this magnitude.
SPOCK: Instruments fluctuating, Captain. Patterns unrecognizable.
SULU'S VOICE: 191 ANGLE ON SULU 191
DECKER: . I make it as seventy-eight kilometers in length.
UHURA: It could hold a crew of of thousands.! Or just one thousand, ten miles tall.
KIRK: Evaluation, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: ( awed; compelled ) That vessel is generating a forcefield measurably greater than the radiation of the Earth's ( turns to Uhura ) Transmit image of the Alien to Starfleet; advise we are attempting further communication.
KIRK: ( turns to Uhura ) Transmit image of the Alien to Starfleet; advise we are attempting further communication.
UHURA: ( interrupting ) Unable to make contact with Starfleet. Our transmissions out of the Cloud are being reflected back.
ILIA: Distance to object now seventy- thousand kilometers.
SULU: ( turning; concerned ) We're closing in on it rapidly,
KIRK: Reduce magnification. Factor 4, Mr. Sulu.
SULU: ( uneasy ) We're already two settings below that, sir.
KIRK: ( reacts, then ) Adjust parallel course, Navigator. Bring us in to one hundred kilometers distance.
SULU: One hundred kilometers.
KIRK: Hold relative position here.
COMPUTER'S VOICE: Intruder alert.! Intruder
CHEKOV: No weapons.!
CHEKOV: Security. do not send further
CHEKOV: ( shaken ) No intruder readings on other decks, Captain. ( to Spock ) Can that be one of their crew?
SPOCK: ( quiet ) A probe from their vessel. ( to Kirk ) A plasma-energy combination.
DECKER: Don't interfere with it.!
CHEKOV: Absolutely, I will
KIRK: seem interested in us only the ship.!
KIRK: It's taken control of the It's running our records! Starfleet strength, Earth
DECKER: It's taken control of the It's running our records! Starfleet strength, Earth
KIRK: It's running our records! Starfleet strength, Earth
DECKER: We could have cut it off at the main computer.
SPOCK: This served the purpose.
ILIA: Mr. Spock, don't move.!
DECKER: ( to Kirk, quiet This is how I define unwarranted!
DECKER: ( voice amplified ) The ship is under attack.! Man all defensive stations.!
KIRK: Forcefields, full remaining strength.! Total reserve!
SPOCK: Captain, we have been seized by a tractor beam.!
KIRK: ( to Decker ) Get someone up here to take the Navigator's station.! ( into intercom ) Engineering. full emergency ( into intercom ) Chief Difalco to the bridge; on the double!
DECKER: ( into intercom ) Chief Difalco to the bridge; on the double!
SCOTT: Going to full emergency. But Captain, if we don't break free in fifteen seconds, she'll burn up.
SPOCK: We cannot break free, Captain. We do not have a fraction of the power necessary.
KIRK: ( into intercom ) Delay that order, Scotty.! Disengage all main drive systems!
DECKER: Captain, suggest a maximum phaser strike directly at the beam might weaken it just enough for us to break free
SPOCK: Break free to Any show of resistance would not only be futile, Catain.
DECKER: ( troubled; suspicious ) We don't know that, Mr. Spock. Why are you opposed to trying? Before Spock can reply:
UHURA: They're pulling us Medical observers to all decks!
DECKER: ( to Spock ) Why bring us inside? Not to destroy us; they could have done that outside.
KIRK: They could have many ways of destroying things, Mr. Decker.
SPOCK: ( peering at Viewer ) Something about us puzzles them. perhaps even concerns them.
UHURA: Captain, photic-sonar readings indicate the aperture is closing; we're trapped, sir.!
SULU: Reverse angle on the viewer,
SPOCK: The tractor beam has released us, Captain.
DIFALCO: Confirmed: Vessel is floating free. No forward momentum.
KIRK: Viewer ahead.
SULU: Viewer ahead, sir.
KIRK: Maneuvering thrusters, Mr. Sulu; ahead one third. Full sensor scan, Mr. Spock; they can't expect us not to look them over now!
SULU: ( manipulating controls ) Thrusters ahead, one third.
SPOCK: ( manipulating Commencing sensor scans.
SULU: ( of Viewer ) Something ahead, sir; looks like another area. ( reacts ) It's closing up.! Hold station.!
KIRK: Hold station.!
SULU: ( manipulating Thrusters at station keeping.
SPOCK: Spock brings a monitor IMAGE ON again, indicates a ( Povill ) pattern showing a line hitting something, then reversing direction.
SPOCK: ( continuing ) All scans are being reflected back, Captain. Our sensors are Have you been able to analyze any of this.?
KIRK: Have you been able to analyze any of this.?
SPOCK: ( voice increasingly I believe the light flares to be energy fields undoubtedly part of the vessel's inner mechanism. A technology so incredibly sophisticated that I cannot
COMPUTER VOICE: ( overlapping ) Intruder Alert! Intruder ( continues )
CHEKOV: Deck four, Captain; Officers' Have a security team meet me at Deck Four main elevator!
KIRK: ( to Chekov ) Have a security team meet me at Deck Four main elevator!
KIRK: ( continuing ) Take the conn, Mr. Decker: Hold present position. ( gesturing Spock
"ILIA": I have been programmed by V'ger to observe and record normal functioning of the carbon-based units infesting USS ENTERPRISE.
KIRK: Who is.'V'ger'.?
"ILIA": V'ger is that which programmed me.
KIRK: Is V'ger the Captain of the alien Jim, what's
"ILIA": V'ger is that which seeks the Jim, this is a mechanism.!
KIRK: Where is Lt. Ilia?
"ILIA": That unit no longer functions. I have been given its form to more readily communicate with the carbon-based units infesting "Carbon-based units".? Humans, Ensign Lang: us.
SECURITY GUARD: "Carbon-based units".? Humans, Ensign Lang: us.
KIRK: ( to "Ilia" ) Why does V'ger travel to the third planet of the solar system directly V'ger travels to the third planet to find the Creator. Find the Creator? ( to "Ilia" ) What does V'ger want of the 'Creator'. ?
"ILIA": V'ger travels to the third planet to find the Creator. Find the Creator? What does V'ger want of the 'Creator'. ?
KIRK: Find the Creator? What does V'ger want of the 'Creator'. ?
"ILIA": To join with him.
SPOCK: Join with the Creator. ? How?
"ILIA": V'ger and the Creator will become Who is the Creator? Mr. Spock, be careful.
SPOCK: Who is the Creator? Mr. Spock, be careful.
"ILIA": The Creator is that which created Who is V'ger?
KIRK: Who is V'ger?
"ILIA": V'ger is that which seeks the
"ILIA": ( continuing; pleasant, I am ready to commence my Doctor, a thorough examination of this probe might provide some insight into those who manufactured it, and how to deal with them. Let's get her to sickbay.
SPOCK: ( fast; to McCoy ) Doctor, a thorough examination of this probe might provide some insight into those who manufactured it, and how to deal with them. Let's get her to sickbay.
"ILIA": I am programmed to observe and record normal functioning procedures of the carbon-based
KIRK: The examination is a normal You may proceede. Thank you.
"ILIA": ( a beat ) You may proceede. ( carefully ) Thank you.
CHAPEL: ( impressed ) An osmotic micro-pump. here and here. Even the smallest body functions are exactly ( traces with finger And every exocrine system is here, too
CHAPEL: ( continuing ) even eye moisture.
"ILIA": ( peering at Decker ) Deck er.
SPOCK: ( to "Ilia" ) Interesting. Not 'Decker-unit'?
SPOCK: Captain. this probe may be a key a key to the Aliens.
DECKER: It's a programmed Mr. Spock.
SPOCK: We have just seen that its body duplicates our navigator in precise detail. Suppose that beneath its programming, the real Ilia's memory patterns are duplicated with equal precision.
KIRK: They had a pattern to follow.
SPOCK: ( nods ) . they may have followed it too precisely.
KIRK: ( comprehending ) Ilia's memory, her feelings of loyalty, friendship, obedience. might all be there.
SPOCK: ( to Decker ) And you did have a 'relationship' with Lieutenant Ilia, Commander.
DECKER: That probe in there in a different form now is the same thing that killed Ilia!
KIRK: Commander, we're locked in an alien vessel, six hours from Earth orbit, our only contact with our captors is the probe. If we can control it, persuade it, use it in some way.
"ILIA": I have recorded enough here. You will now assist me further.
KIRK: ( indicating Decker ) The Decker-unit can assist you with much greater efficiency.
KIRK: ( continuing ) Carry on with your assignment, Mr. Decker.
DECKER: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Spock? Concerned about his I am uneasy with that being our only hope of more information.
SPOCK: I am uneasy with that being our only hope of more information.
DECKER: ( of pictures ) All these vessels were called
B.G. ): Uhura at her console, struggling to hear the signal.
UHURA: A faint signal from Starfleet, sir. They have the intruder on their monitors. They show us. three hours. twenty-four minutes from Earth!
KIRK'S VOICE: ( thru intercom ) Thank you.
DECKER: The carbon units use this area for recreation. What type of recreation does the crew aboard your vessel enjoy.?
"ILIA": The words 'recreation' and 'enjoy' have no meaning to my programming.
DECKER: Ilia 'enjoyed' this game. she nearly always won
"ILIA": This device serves no purpose.
KIRK: ( nods grimly ) She needs something else: something much more personal to stimulate memory patterns. Something with a more emotional tie.
DECKER: The crews of the previous Enterprises were also carbon units. In what way is the life form in your vessel different?
"ILIA": Carbon units are not true life forms. Do those images repre- sent how Enterprise has evolved into its present form?
DECKER: ( hoping he's struck Carbon units have clearly retarded Enterprise's proper evolvement.
"ILIA": Carbon units have clearly retarded Enterprise's proper evolvement.
DECKER: ( controlling surprise ) What is Enterprise's proper Enterprise should not require the presence of carbon units.
"ILIA": Enterprise should not require the presence of carbon units.
DECKER: ( carefully ) Enterprise would be unable to function without carbon units.
"ILIA": More data concerning this functioning is necessary before carbon units can be patterned for data storage.
DECKER: What does that mean?
"ILIA": ( stopping; almost When my examination is complete, the carbon units will be reduced to data patterns.
DECKER: Within you are memory patterns of a carbon unit. If I can help you revive these patterns; you could understand our functions better.
"ILIA": That is logical. You may procede.
SPOCK: Computer, commence recording. Captain Kirk this message will detail my attempt to contact the aliens.
UHURA: Starfleet signals, sir, growing in strength. They have Intruder on their monitors it's decelerating powerfield cloud beginning to Confirm, Captain. Lunar beacons indicate Intruder on a course into Earth orbit.
SULU: Confirm, Captain. Lunar beacons indicate Intruder on a course into Earth orbit.
CHEKOV: ( interrupting ) Sir! Airlock four has been opened; a thruster suit is reported missing!
KIRK: ( reacts knowingly ) ( to navigator ) Get a fix on his position!
KIRK: ( from the start ) . I don't want him stopped, Bones; I want him to lead me to whatever's out there.! And if that 'whatever' has taken over his mind..?
KIRK: Then he'll have still led me to it, won't he?
SULU'S VOICE: Bridge, Captain. We make Spock as 26 Mark 345 degrees off ship's
KIRK: I have him in sight.
CHAPEL: I remember Lt. Ilia once mentioning that she wore this.
DECKER: ( reacting; tight ) . when we met.
CHAPEL: ( gently ) Put it on.
CHAPEL: ( helpfully ) ( quiet; urging ) On Delta. remember.?
DECKER: ( quiet; urging ) On Delta. remember.?
"ILIA": ( haltingly ) Dr. Chapel.
"ILIA": ( to Decker ) ( gently reminding ) Commander. this is a mechanism.
DECKER: ( gently; but urgingly ) Ilia, help us make direct contact with V'ger.
"ILIA: I. cannot. Then tell us who V'ger is; where he's from. W need your help.
DECKER: Then tell us who V'ger is; where he's from. W need your help.
"ILIA": Why have two carbon units entered
DECKER: They want to make contact with Does V'ger object to the presence of the two carbon units?
DECKER: ( continuing; Does V'ger object to the presence of the two carbon units?
"ILIA": The carbon units are of no consequence; V'ger will determine their purpose. Their purpose is to survive.
"ILIA": That is also V'ger's purpose.
DECKER: You said V'ger's purpose was to find and join with the Creator.
"ILIA": That is how V'ger will survive.
"ILIA": I wish to continue my observations.
KIRK: 293 INT. BRIDGE - EMPHASIZING HELM 293
KIRK'S VOICE: . stand by, I may be in trouble.
SULU: Your phaser, Captain.! Use your phaser.!
KIRK'S VOICE: ( transmitter, weak ) Can't. reach. phas ( transmission breaks
CHEKOV: Airlocks two and four prepare to launch rescue Chief Lang! Get them out there! Fast!
SULU: Mr. Spock, the Captain is in trouble, directly behind you three hundred meters! Mr. Spock!
KIRK'S VOICE: ( weak; STATIC ) . Spock.! . need help.! . trapped.!
KIRK'S VOICE: ( continuing; weakening;
STATIC ): . pressure on me.! . can't move.! Spock.!
KIRK: Bridge, cancel rescue teams. Spock, what in the hell are you doing out here!
SPOCK: I am seeking answers, Captain.
KIRK: ( with insight ) Answers to what, Spock? Our dilemma or your personal one?
SPOCK: ( pointing ) Captain, I believe there we will find an indication of whoever or whatever is aboard this
SPOCK: It would appear that the atomic arrays of these crystals store information. A remarkably efficient system.
KIRK: ( indicates ) And these 'sensor-swarms' collect that data, carry it here.
SPOCK: ( nods; indicates ) New crystals: they must contain the most recent data obtained
RAPID: PROFUSION OF FAINT IMAGES, but this time including a pattern-like image of Klingons, Klingon vessels ( the ones destroyed by the Cloud ), and obvious Starfleet personnel and the Epsilon 9 station. Also, a of the Security Guard killed by the probe. And Ilia.
KIRK: Klingons. our Epsilon 9 station . and Ilia!! They seem to be more than just images.
SPOCK: ( agreeing ) Exact patterns. The energy bolt that hit them wasn't simply a weapon it dematerialized them, stored them. But why?
KIRK: If this is their ship's data banks, where is the crew? Or is their entire ship automated?
SPOCK: Captain, I do not believe there is a crew or that this is a vessel as such.
SPOCK: ( continuing ) I am almost certain now that all of this is V'ger I believe that we are inside a life form, a living machine.
SPOCK: Spock touches his spacesuit controls; the THRUSTER JETS move him out toward the Mediator Balls.
KIRK: ( warningly )
KIRK: Spock, if you're right, its mind may be enormous.
CHAPEL: Now scanning pons area at spinal nerve fiber connection. Indications of some neurological traumathe power pouring through that mind-meld must have been
SPOCK: ( quiet )
SPOCK: ( continuing ) This simple feeling. ( looks at Kirk ) . is so far beyond V'ger's
KIRK: ( gently ) Were you right? Spock? V'ger is a living machine.?
SPOCK: ( nodding ) A life form of its own; a conscious, living entity.
CHAPEL: ( reacting ) A living machine.?! ( to Chapel ) We're living machines, too: protein
KIRK: And it considers the Enterprise a living machine: that's why the probe refers to our ship as an If it thinks our ship is alive what does it think we are? An 'infestation' bacteria.
CHAPEL: If it thinks our ship is alive what does it think we are? An 'infestation' bacteria.
SPOCK: I saw V'ger's planet: a planet populated by living machines. Unbelievable technology. V'ger has knowledge that spans this And. in all this order. all this magnificence, V'ger feels no awe.no delight. no beauty. I should have known. Know what, Spock? What?
KIRK: Know what, Spock? What?
KIRK: ( continuing ) What should you have known?
SPOCK: ( weak ) No meaning. No hope. ( summoning strength ) And, Jim, no answers.! Jim, it's looking for answers What answers?
KIRK: What answers?
SPOCK: 'Is this all I am? Is there not
UHURA'S VOICE: A faint signal from Starfleet, sir! Intruder Cloud has been located on their outer monitors for past twenty-seven minutes. dissipating rapidly as it approaches.
SULU'S VOICE: Starfleet reports forward velocity has slowed to sub-warp speed! We are three minutes from Earth's I'll be right there. I need Spock on the bridge.
KIRK: ( into intercom ) I'll be right there. ( to Chapel; crisp ) I need Spock on the bridge.
KIRK: A machine planet.? Sending a machine to Earth looking for its
KIRK: 'To find the Creator,' the probe said. Find God.? Isn't that what we're all trying to do.? All us machines.?
KIRK: Mr. Chekov, Commander Decker's present location?
CHEKOV'S VOICE: He. they. are in Engineering, I want to make a ship's announcement. But it's to be heard only in Ready, Captain.
KIRK: ( into intercom ) I want to make a ship's announcement. But it's to be heard only in Ready, Captain.
UHURA'S VOICE: Ready, Captain.
KIRK: ( voice amplified ) This is the Captain speaking. It appears that the alien ship. V'ger. is NOT a manned vessel.
KIRK'S VOICE: ( amplified ) It is a living entity.! A machine life form. We are attempting to ascertain its intentions. All personnel will maintain yellow alert
DECKER: A machine.! Then it had to be programmed. By whom.?
"ILIA": By the Creator.
DECKER: ( probing ) To join, and become One with the To learn all that is learnable; to deliver all collected data to the Creator on the third planet. That is the programming.
"ILIA": To learn all that is learnable; to deliver all collected data to the Creator on the third planet. That is the programming.
SCOTT: Well, sir, now what about all that? A living entity, the Captain says. entity. A living thing.!
DECKER: Thank you, Scotty.
SCOTT: ( dourly ) Your welcome, sir.
"ILIA": There is no logical reason for carbon units to control Enterprise's power systems.
SCOTT: ( to "Ilia" ) Lassie, if I were functioning 'logically,' right now I'd be showing you the inside of our scrap metal compactor!
UHURA: We're now locked into Starfleet's transceivers; Admiral Nogura has received your reports, sir.
UHURA: The visual is a lunar monitor relay, sir.
UHURA: ( continuing ) Heavy interference, sir it's coming from here, inside the intruder itself.
SPOCK: Puzzling! The interference appears to be a rather simple carrier wave code signal.
UHURA: On an old style
"ILIA": ( to Decker; As I stated, V'ger calls to the ( nods; turns to Kirk ) V'ger is announcing that it has arrived, sir that it's ready to deliver the information it was programmed to collect.
DECKER: ( nods; turns to Kirk ) V'ger is announcing that it has arrived, sir that it's ready to deliver the information it was programmed to collect.
"ILIA": 'To learn all that is learnable.'
DECKER: ( to Kirk ) It expects a return signal now, ordering it to transmit that information to the Creator.
UHURA: ( whirling ) Sir! V'ger's signals have ( as if frightened ) Decker. The Creator has not
"ILIA": ( as if frightened ) Decker. The Creator has not
UHURA: Picking up Starfleet again; a lunar monitor relay.
SPOCK: ( interrupting; from These read as identical composition. ( turns to Kirk ) . however, Captain, they measure several hundred times more High mag, Mr. Sulu!
KIRK: High mag, Mr. Sulu!
SULU: The third one is moving off too a fourth one is forming.
UHURA: ( overlapping ) Urgent signal from Starfleet, ( turns, shaken ) All Earth defense systems have gone dead.
UHURA: ( continuing ) Sir, Starfleet computes their trajectories as moving toward equidistant positions over Earth.
SPOCK: From four equidistant positions, Captain, a detonation would blanket the entire surface of the planet.
DIFALCO: I plot them as reaching equidistant positions in. twenty-nine minutes, sir. mark!
KIRK: The carbon-units infection will now be removed from the Creator's The Creator has not answered.
"ILIA": The carbon-units infection will now be removed from the Creator's The Creator has not answered.
KIRK: The Creator has not answered.
"ILIA": The Creator has not answered.
KIRK: The carbon-units are not responsible for that.
"ILIA": You infest and control Enterprise. V'ger believes carbon-units interfere with the Creator in the same manner.
SPOCK: ( to Kirk ) Then V'ger believes the Creator to be a machine too.
DECKER: ( nods ) It seems we all imagine God in our own image.
DECKER: ( grimly amused ) Of course: we all create God in our own image.
KIRK: V'ger! If we are lesser beings, we are still, like you, living. And because we are alive, we like you wish to survive. You must not destroy
SPOCK: ( quiet, terse ) ( reaches Kirk ) Treat V'ger as you would. a
KIRK: Yes, Captain, a child: evolving into adulthood learning, searching instinctively needing.
SPOCK: Yes, Captain, a child: evolving into adulthood learning, searching instinctively needing.
DECKER: ( intrigued ) Needing what.? Spock, this 'child' is about to eliminate all life on Earth; how do we teach it that that's 'wrong'? With a spanking.!? It doesn't know what it needs, Comm ander. ( to Kirk ) It does not know.
SPOCK: It doesn't know what it needs, Comm ander. It does not know.
KIRK: ( abruptly to The carbonunits-know-why-the ( shocked ) ( to "Ilia," Ilia. we can help V'ger find what it needs
DECKER: ( to "Ilia," Ilia. we can help V'ger find what it needs
"ILIA": ( to Kirk, hard ) Disclose the information.
KIRK: ( cool, calm ) Not until V'ger withdraws the devices orbiting the third planet.
"ILIA": KIRK UNIT! DISCLOSE THE Secure all stations. Clear the bridge.
INFORMATION!: Kirk studies her a moment, then decides to press his A moment where all are startled at this order but no time for questions as just then the ship is ROCKED BY A FURIOUS POWERFUL ERUPTION NEARBY within V'ger.
KIRK: ( to "Ilia," almost ( then to crew Secure all stations. Clear the bridge.
DECKER: ( amplified ) Bridge to all decks,secure your stations. Your child is having a tantrum, Spock.
SULU: Clear the bridge, Captain.?
KIRK: That was the order, Mr. Sulu: Clear the bridge.
"ILIA": ( to Kirk; flat ) V'ger requires the information.
KIRK: Bridge secure all stations! Move out! Jim, what the hell kind of strategy is this.?
DECKER: All ship's functions going to automatic, Captain.
KIRK: If V'ger destroys the Enterprise, the information V'ger requires will also be destroyed.
"ILIA": It is illogical to withhold required information.
"ILIA": ( almost polite ) Kirk-unit, why do you not disclose information?
KIRK: Because V'ger is going to destroy all the carbon units on the third planet.
"ILIA": They have repressed the Creator.
KIRK: The information will not be
"ILIA": ( almost a plea ) V'ger needs the information.
KIRK: Then V'ger must withdraw its orbiting devices.
"ILIA": V'ger will comply if the carbon units disclose the information. It learns fast, doesn't it.?
SPOCK: Captain, the vessel V'ger obviously operates from a central brain complex.
KIRK: ( to Spock ) The orbiting devices would be controlled from the point,
SPOCK: Kirk nods grimly, faces "Ilia" again; this time he's playing for all the stakes.
KIRK: The carbon units' information cannot be disclosed to V'ger's probe. only to V'ger directly.
DECKER: Forward motion, Captain.!
SPOCK: A tractor beam.
DECKER: Captain, what's the next move?
KIRK: The question is, Mr. Decker, there a next move.
KIRK: Resume duty stations, Mr. Decker. All personnel resume stations.!
DECKER: ( into intercom, All personnel resume stations.!
KIRK: Well, Mr. Decker, it seems my bluff is being called.
DECKER: I'm afraid our hand is pretty weak, Captain. But it's the only game in town.
KIRK: Mr. Chekov, when do those devices They reach final position in. Twenty-seven minutes mark.
CHEKOV: They reach final position in. Twenty-seven minutes mark.
KIRK: ( a beat; then into
SCOTT: Scott, here, sir.
KIRK: ( into intercom, Mr. Scott, be prepared to execute Starfleet order two zero zero
SCOTT: ( with a glance at When, Captain?
SCOTT: ( somberly, into Aye, sir.
ROSS: Why has the Captain ordered self- destruct, sir?
SCOTT: ( a beat; gently ) I would say, lass, because he thinks he hopes that when we go up. we'll take V'ger with us.
ROSS: Will we?
SCOTT: ( with grim When that much matter and anti- matter are brought together? Oh, yes; we will, indeed.
CHEKOV: Twenty-five minutes to device activation, sir.
UHURA: Starfleet has been apprised of our situation, Captain.
SULU: Tractor beam remains constant.
DIFALCO: We are seventeen kilometers inside the vessel.
KIRK: Spock. Spock.
KIRK: ( starts ) Mr. Spock I think.
KIRK: ( quiet, feeling ) Not for us?
SPOCK: No, Captain, not for us. for V'ger.
SPOCK: ( continuing ) I weep for V'ger, as I would for a brother far more knowledgeable than I and yet one step behind.
SPOCK: As I was when I came aboard. so is V'ger now: empty, incomplete. Searching. Logic and knowledge are not enough. Spock, are you saying that you found, what you needed but V'ger Has not, Doctor and now, because of what we are planning. will not.
SPOCK: Has not, Doctor and now, because of what we are planning. will not.
KIRK: ( almost hard ) There is no alternative.
DECKER: ( gently pressing ) Mr. Spock, what would V'ger need to fulfill itself?
SPOCK: V'ger has begun to understand the true limits of our universe, thereby realizing the existence of other dimensions. To fulfill itself it must evolve to a higher dimension; V'ger believes this can be achieved only by joining with the Creator.
KIRK: ( understanding ) 'Is this all that I am? Is there nothing more?
ON DIFALCO: reacting to the ( O.S. ) viewer, AD-LIBBING a terse:
DIFALCO: PAST KIRK AND SPOCK TO THE VIEWER where another opening is suddenly visible another chamber. But the violent and color energy effects of the previous chambers are no longer evident. Instead, the entire chamber appears beautifully symmetrical, with a strange, subdued glow, which increases as we move closer.
SPOCK: ( flat ) Captain, I believe that is our
COMPLEX: This enormous chamber resembles a hemisphere, laced throughout with dazzling energy patterns, not at all ominous, but quite lovely in effect. As the Enterprise continues forward motion, now ahead you will to SEE a small "island." Floating in the exact center of the hemisphere, the "island" seems alive with PULSING LIGHT, with more of the lovely and delicate ENERGY FORMS and COLORS. On the "island," vague at this distance, ap pears to be a "solid" matter form.
SULU: Forward motion slowing, Captain.! Engineering. Status, Mr. Scott?
KIRK: ( into intercom ) Engineering. Status, Mr. Scott?
KIRK: ( into intercom ) Thank you, Scotty. Stand by.
CHEKOV: Tractor beam strength lessening, Mr. Scott. on my next signal.
KIRK: ( into intercom ) Mr. Scott. on my next signal.
SPOCK: ( fast ) Captain, the orbital device will ( ALT. ) not be triggered for twenty-two ( nineteen. ) minutes. ( fifteen. )
KIRK: The point. ( Your )
SPOCK: ( eying "Ilia"; The point is, Captain, twenty-two ( ALT. minutes. We could have that much loop "19" & more time. "15" )
KIRK: ( shakes head, no ) won't have twenty-two seconds; the plan must be implemented upon arrival.
DECKER: Captain, we can't be sure that our. move. will actually save Earth.
KIRK: Decker's last word is interrupted by an almost gentle BUMP and on the Viewer all perceptible motion has stopped. At the same time:
SULU: Forward motion stopped, Captain.
CHEKOV: Tractor beam is released.
"ILIA": ( indicating viewer )
KIRK: ( into intercom: Mr. Scott.
CHEKOV: Captain. I read an oxygen and gravity envelope forming outside the Enterprise.!
UHURA: Sir, I have located the source of V'ger's radio signal: ( it's ) directly ahead.
SPOCK: That transmitter is a vital link between V'ger and the Creator.
DECKER: ( urging )
"ILIA": The carbon units will now provide V'ger the required information.
KIRK: ( into intercom ) Mr. Scott. we're holding off; there may be a chance. ( rises, gestures Spock, Bones.
KIRK: Mr. Decker. I will contact you every five minutes. Otherwise. inform Mr. Scott immediately.
DECKER: ( calls after him ) Captain. I'd like to go along.
KIRK: Mr. Sulu, you have the conn.
KIRK: V'ger plans to literally to reduce both itself and the Creator to patterns.
SPOCK: . and then to reassemble itself combined with the Creator. The most certain way of obtaining all the Creator's answers.
KIRK: ( to "Ilia" ) Our data is being prepared.
"ILIA": We will answer and present of our answer when it is ready!
KIRK: We will answer and present of our answer when it is ready!
KIRK: ( continuing ) V'ger, we will bring the Creator to you! Here!
DECKER: We need only a few more minutes. Believe me.
DECKER: Ilia, believe me. the Creator will appear!
UHURA: Problem, Captain: the response signal is not in our records. Voyager Six was sent out by Earth's "United States Subdivision.' The code was probably.
DECKER: And when V'ger melds? What will happen to you?
"ILIA": It will. take me from And when it realizes what the Creator is.?
KIRK: There's no way to know. V'ger expected it to be a machine some single entity. All of us here may be reduced into patterns.
SPOCK: That seems to be what it has planned to have the Creator physically present here. The God it captures is going to be a hell of a disappointment.
KIRK: We SEE Decker look up at Kirk's call, then ignore him and go back to inspecting inside the access hatch. At this moment, from Kirk's communicator, a SIGNAL.
KIRK: ( continuing; Kirk here.
KIRK: Stand by. Transmit it on my
KIRK: ( continuing ) Enterprise. transmit.
DECKER: 377 KIRK, SPOCK AND McCOY 377
KIRK: Enterprise, are you transmitting?
KIRK: Confirm code and transmitting Both signal and frequency confirmed, sir.
DECKER: ( calling ) Captain Kirk!
DECKER: ( continuing ) The fault is here, sir, not in the transmission. ( indicating into The antenna leads have been disconnected. V'ger never intended to accept a transmitted Capture God! In order to retrieve V'ger's data, the Creator has to physically come And plug the signal directly into the circuitry at this. ( indicates into . point here, Captain. It should pick up even a tricorder ( lifting communicator ) Enterprise, I want that signal again. Transmit!
KIRK: Capture God! In order to retrieve V'ger's data, the Creator has to physically come And plug the signal directly into the circuitry at this. . point here, Captain. It should pick up even a tricorder Enterprise, I want that signal again. Transmit!
DECKER: And plug the signal directly into the circuitry at this. . point here, Captain. It should pick up even a tricorder Enterprise, I want that signal again. Transmit!
KIRK: ( lifting communicator ) Enterprise, I want that signal again. Transmit!
SPOCK: Jim. he
DECKER: You got the Enterprise, it's what you wanted. This is what I want. But, Jim. . I'm the right choice for this
KIRK: Spock, we
SPOCK: ( nods ) Yes, Captain. It needed our mortality, the fear of it, our struggle against it, our fears, our dreams.
KIRK: . and the 'foolish' emotions which drive us?
SPOCK: ( looks at Kirk; then ) I prefer your poet Dante's phrase 'the divine restlessness of the human spirit.' Spock. you're quoting poetry?
UHURA: Starfleet signal, Captain! Return to orbital dockyard for Ignore that signal. Shall we give the Enterprise a proper shakedown, Mr. Scott?
KIRK: Ignore that signal. Shall we give the Enterprise a proper shakedown, Mr. Scott?
SCOTT: ( suddenly beaming ) I'd say it's time for that, I would, sir. ( toward Spock ) We can have you back on Vulcan in four days, Mr. Spock.
SPOCK: ( coolly ) I have no business on Vulcan,
KIRK: Ahead Warp One, Mr. Sulu.
DIFALCO: Heading, sir?
KIRK: ( taking center seat; Out there. Thataway.
SPOCK: ( nods gravely ) A most logical choice, Captain.
