FINAL DRAFT: March 16, 1994
CHEKOV: ( points to sky ) There he is there, to the ( peers upward ) What are ye, blind? That's a
SCOTTY: ( peers upward ) What are ye, blind? That's a
SCOTTY: ( concerned ) Repelling the Crystalline Trench. rafting down lava flows. orbital skydiving. it's like the man is running a bloody decathlon across the galaxy.
CHEKOV: ( re: sound ) That should be him now. I think he's just crossed the sound
KIRK: Right on target! I jump out over the Arabian Peninsula. and I end up here, right on the dime.
CHEKOV: Actually, Captain, your precise target area was thirty-five That way.
KIRK: Thanks for pointing that out.
KIRK: I've warned ye about that back of yours. You should have a doctor take a look at it.
SCOTTY: I've warned ye about that back of yours. You should have a doctor take a look at it.
KIRK: Tomorrow I want to make a tri- elliptical jump. That's where you jump out over Northern China, and make three complete orbits before you start re-entry.
CHEKOV: Captain. Perhaps you have forgotten that tomorrow is the christening ceremony.
KIRK: I'm not going. Scotty, help me with this chute.
SCOTTY: What do you mean, you're not going? We promised.
KIRK: When I retired, I swore I'd never set foot on a starship again, and I meant it.
CHEKOV: ( firm ) I don't want to hear anymore about it. I'm not going, and that's
KIRK: ( firm ) I don't want to hear anymore about it. I'm not going, and that's
JOURNALISTS: ( overlapping ) Captain Kirk, how does it feel to be back on the Enterprise Bridge. Captain, can I have a Minute. Captain Scott, do you have any comment on. Commander Chekov. etc.
HARRIMAN: Excuse me, excuse me.there will be plenty of time for questions
HARRIMAN: ( continuing, to all ) I'm Captain John Harriman. I'd like to welcome you all aboard.
KIRK: It's our pleasure.
HARRIMAN: I just want you to know how excited we all are to have a group of living legends with us on our maiden voyage. I remember reading about your missions when I was in grade
KIRK: Well. may we have a look around?
HARRIMAN: Please. please.
CHEKOV: Chekov moves off.
JOURNALIST: ( breezy ) So, Captain. this is the first Starship Enterprise in thirty years without James T. Kirk in command. How do you feel about
KIRK: Just fine. I'm glad to be here to send her on her way. What have you been doing since you I've been. keeping busy.
JOURNALIST: What have you been doing since you I've been. keeping busy.
KIRK: I've been. keeping busy.
CHEKOV: ( to Kirk ) Excuse me, Captain. I'd like you to meet the Helmsman of the Enterprise-B. Ensign Demora Sulu Captain James Kirk.
DEMORA: It's a pleasure to meet you, sir. My father's told me some. interesting stories about you.
KIRK: Your father. Hikaru Sulu is your Yes, sir.
DEMORA: Yes, sir.
CHEKOV: You met her once before, but she But that wasn't so long ago. it couldn't have been more than.
KIRK: But that wasn't so long ago. it couldn't have been more than.
CHEKOV: Twelve years, sir.
KIRK: Yes. well. congratulations, Ensign. It wouldn't be the Enterprise without a Sulu at the Thank you, sir. Let me show you the new inertial guidance system.
DEMORA: Thank you, sir. Let me show you the new inertial guidance system.
SCOTTY: ( to Kirk ) Damn fine ship if you ask me.
KIRK: You know, Scotty. it amazes me.
SCOTTY: And what would that be, sir?
KIRK: Sulu. When did he find the time for a family?
SCOTTY: It's like you always said if something's important enough, you make the time.
SCOTTY: So. that's why you've been running around the galaxy like an eighteen-year-old. Finding retirement a little lonely, are we?
KIRK: With that kind of tact, I'm glad you're an engineer and not a
HARRIMAN: Excuse me, gentlemen. if you'll take your seats.
KIRK: Oh. of course.
HARRIMAN: ( to all ) Prepare to leave spacedock. Aft thrusters ahead one quarter, port and starboard at station keeping. ( beat ) Captain Kirk, I'd be honored if you would give the order to get No. no. Thank you.
KIRK: No. no. Thank you.
HARRIMAN: Please, I insist.
KIRK: ( to all ) Take us out.
CHEKOV: ( sotto ) Very good, sir.
SCOTTY: ( sotto ) Brought a tear to my eye.
HARRIMAN: Well. we've just cleared the asteroid belt. Our course will take us out beyond Pluto and then back to spacedock. Just a quick run around the block. If we have time, we'll conduct a few tests of the warp
COM OFFICER: ( to Harriman ) We're picking up a distress call,
HARRIMAN: On speakers.
COM VOICE: ( fritzed ) This is the transport ship Lakul. We're caught in some kind of energy distortion. We can't break free. need immediate help. It' tearing us
SCIENCE OFFICER: The Lakul is one of two ships transporting El-Aurian refugees to
HARRIMAN: Can you locate them?
DEMORA: The ships are bearing at three one zero mark two one five. Distance: Three light years.
HARRIMAN: Signal the closest starship. We're in no condition to mount a rescue. We don't even have a full crew aboard.
NAVIGATOR: We're the only one in range, sir.
HARRIMAN: Well, then. I guess it's up to Helm, lay in an intercept course and engage at maximum warp.
SCOTTY: Is there something wrong with your chair, Captain?
DEMORA: We're within visual range of the energy distortion, Captain.
HARRIMAN: On screen.
CHEKOV: What the hell is that?
DEMORA: ( off console ) I've found the transport ships.
DEMORA: ( cont'd ) Their hulls are starting to buckle under the stress they won't survive much longer. We're encountering severe gravimetric distortions from the energy ribbon.
NAVIGATOR: We're encountering severe gravimetric distortions from the energy ribbon.
HARRIMAN: We'll have to keep our distance. we don't want to get pulled in
KIRK: Tractor beam.
HARRIMAN: We don't have a tractor beam.
KIRK: You left spacedock without a tractor beam?
HARRIMAN: It won't be installed until Ensign Sulu. try generating a subspace field around the ships. That might break them free.
DEMORA: Aye, sir.
DEMORA: ( continuing; shakes her There's too much quantum interference, Captain.
HARRIMAN: What about. venting plasma from the warp nacelles? That might disrupt the ribbon's hold on the Aye, sir.. releasing drive
NAVIGATOR: Aye, sir.. releasing drive
NAVIGATOR: ( continuing ) It's not having any effect, sir. I think
DEMORA: Sir! The starboard vessel's hull is collapsing
CHEKOV: How many people were aboard that ship?
DEMORA: Two hundred sixty-five.
DEMORA: ( urgent ) The Lakul's hull integrity is down to twelve percent, sir.
HARRIMAN: Captain Kirk. I would appreciate any. suggestions you might have.
KIRK: ( sotto ) First move us within transporter range and beam those people to the Enterprise.
HARRIMAN: What about the gravimetric distortions? They'll tear us Risk is part of the game if you want to sit in that chair.
KIRK: ( gently ) Risk is part of the game if you want to sit in that chair.
HARRIMAN: Helm, close to within transporter
KIRK: And second turn that damned thing off.
DEMORA: We're within range, sir.
HARRIMAN: ( to lieutenant ) Beam them directly to Sickbay.
CHEKOV: ( concerned ) How big's your medical staff?
HARRIMAN: ( embarrassed ) The medical staff. doesn't arrive until Tuesday.
CHEKOV: You and you. You've just become nurses. Let's go.
DEMORA: Main Engineering reports fluctuations in the warp plasma By-pass the relays and go to auxiliary systems.
SCOTTY: By-pass the relays and go to auxiliary systems.
LIEUTENANT: Sir, I'm having trouble locking onto them. They appear to be. in some sort of. temporal flux.
KIRK: Scotty quickly moves to look at the Transporter Kirk moves to him.
SCOTTY: What the hell.
SCOTTY: Their life signs are. are phasing in and out of our space-time continuum.
KIRK: Phasing? To where?
NAVIGATOR: Sir! Their hull's collapsing!
SCOTTY: I got forty-seven of them. . out of one hundred fifty.
KIRK: We're caught in a gravimetric field emanating from the trailing edge of the ribbon.
DEMORA: We're caught in a gravimetric field emanating from the trailing edge of the ribbon.
HARRIMAN: All engines, full reverse!
SURVIVORS: ( incoherent, overlapping ) The colors are touching me. I'm caught in the glass. Help me. I can see the seconds. Over here. etc
CHEKOV: It will be all right. We're going to take care of you.
CHEKOV: ( off tricorder ) Only minor injuries so far. ( beat ) But it looks like they're all suffering from some kind of neural shock.
SORAN: It's all right. you're safe. you're on the Enterprise.
JOURNALIST: It's all right. you're safe. you're on the Enterprise.
SORAN: No. I have to go. I have to get back. You don't understand! Let me go!
JOURNALIST: What was he talking about?
CHEKOV: Easy there.
CHEKOV: It's going to be okay. Here, just lie down.
DEMORA: Inertial dampers failing.
SCOTTY: Engines not responding!
HARRIMAN: ( quiet ) I didn't expect to die my first day on the job.
KIRK: ( sotto ) The first thing you learn as Captain is how to cheat death. ( beat, then louder ) ( outraged ) There's just no way to disrupt a gravimetric field of this Hull integrity failing.
SCOTTY: ( outraged ) There's just no way to disrupt a gravimetric field of this Hull integrity failing.
DEMORA: Hull integrity failing.
SCOTTY: ( continuing ) But I do have a theory.
KIRK: I thought you might.
SCOTTY: An anti-matter discharge directly ahead. it might disrupt the field long enough for us to break A photon torpedo?
KIRK: A photon torpedo?
SCOTTY: ( quickly, to Demora ) Load torpedo bays, prepare to fire on my command.
KIRK: ( quickly, to Demora ) Load torpedo bays, prepare to fire on my command.
DEMORA: Captain. we don't have any
KIRK: Don't tell me. Tuesday. Captain, it may be possible to simulate a torpedo blast using a resonance burst from the main deflector dish.
SCOTTY: Captain, it may be possible to simulate a torpedo blast using a resonance burst from the main deflector dish.
KIRK: ( onto the idea ) Where are the deflector relays?
DEMORA: Deck fifteen, section twenty-one I'll go. You have the Bridge.
HARRIMAN: ( to Kirk ) I'll go. You have the Bridge.
KIRK: No. a Captain's place is on the Bridge of his ship. I'll take care of it. Keep her together until I get I always do.
KIRK: ( on the move, to Scotty ) Keep her together until I get ( matter of fact ) I always do.
SCOTTY: ( matter of fact ) I always do.
DEMORA: Forty-five seconds to structural
SCOTTY: Bridge to Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Kirk here.
SCOTTY: Captain, I don't know how much longer I can hold her together!
KIRK: That's it. Go!
HARRIMAN: ( to Demora ) Activate main deflector.
SCOTTY: We're breaking free.
DEMORA: We're clear.
HARRIMAN: ( excited, to com ) You did it, Kirk! ( to Demora ) Damage report, Ensign.
DEMORA: ( off console ) There's some buckling on the starboard nacelle. ( reacts ) We've also got a hull breach in the Engineering section. Emergency forcefields are in place and holding.
SCOTTY: Sections twenty through twenty- eight on decks thirteen. . and fifteen.
DEMORA: Sections twenty through twenty- eight on decks thirteen. . and fifteen.
SCOTTY: ( to com ) Bridge to Captain Kirk. ( beat ) Captain Kirk, please respond.
SCOTTY: ( continuing, to Demora ) Have Chekov meet me on deck
CHEKOV: My God. Was anyone in there?
SCOTTY: 36 EXT. SPACE - ENTERPRISE-B ( VFX-I ) 36
DEMORA: I've checked the entire ship and the surrounding space. there's no sign of him.
SCOTTY: ( quiet ) Just a quick. run around the I never thought it would end like All things must end, Mr. Chekov.
CHEKOV: I never thought it would end like All things must end, Mr. Chekov.
SCOTTY: All things must end, Mr. Chekov.
HARRIMAN: Let's go home.
RIKER: Bring out the prisoner!
PICARD: Mister Worf. I always knew this day would come. Are you prepared to face the charges?
TROI: Answer him!
WORF: I am prepared.
RIKER: "We, the officers and crew of the U.S.S. Enterprise, being of sound mind and judgment, hereby make the following charges against Lieutenant Worf: One. That he did knowingly and willfully perform above and beyond the call of duty on countless occasions. Two. That he has been a good and solid officer on this ship for one score less twelve years. And Three. Most seriously. that he has earned the respect and admiration of the entire crew."
PICARD: There can be only one punishment for such crimes. I hereby promote you to the rank of Lieutenant Commander, with all the rights and privileges thereto. And may God have mercy on your
PICARD: ( cont'd ) Congratulations, Commander.
WORF: ( smiles ) Thank you, sir.
RIKER: Extend the plank!!
CREWMEMBERS: Into the sea with him. feed him to the sharks. walk the plank. etc.
PICARD: Don't you think you're taking this a little too far, Number One?
RIKER: When we went to ancient Rome for Deanna's promotion, we threw her to the lions, remember?
WORF: ( a shout )
WAIT!!: Everyone falls silent a moment. Worf looks over the side at the water below.
WORF: ( a little embarrassed ) I can't swim.
LA FORGE: ( calmly, to Worf ) The Holodeck safety program is engaged. The computer won't let you drown.
BEVERLY: But the sharks are quite
DATA: ( to Beverly ) Doctor, I must confess I am uncertain as to why pushing someone into freezing, shark- infested water is amusing.
BEVERLY: It's all done in good fun, Data. Get in the spirit of things.
DATA: Data thinks a moment, then he LIFTS Beverly with one hand and hold her over the rail.
BEVERLY: Data.Data !
GEORDI: Data. that wasn't funny.
PICARD: Well, now that we're all aboard. Number One, bring the ship before the wind. Let's see what's out there.
RIKER: Aye, aye, sir. Take the wheel, Commander.
RIKER: ( shouts ) All hands make sail! Raise up tacks and stand by the braces!
PICARD: Imagine what it was like, Will. No engines. no computers. just the wind, the sea and the stars to guide you.
RIKER: Bad food, brutal discipline. No women.
COM VOICE: Bridge to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Picard here.
COM VOICE: There is a personal message for you from Earth.
PICARD: ( annoyed ) Put it through down here. ( to Riker ) But the best thing about a life at sea was that they couldn't get to
PICARD: ( to com ) Computer, arch.
TROI: ( to crewmember ) Here. Take the wheel.
TROI: ( quiet ) Captain, are you all right?
PICARD: Yes. Fine. If you'll excuse
PICARD: Computer, exit.
RIKER: Set the royals and the studding sails, Mister Worf.
WORF: The Royal. studs.?
RIKER: ( smiles, points aloft ) You see the top yardarm, now look to the
COM VOICE: Bridge to Commander Riker.
RIKER: Riker here.
COM VOICE: We're picking up a distress call from the Amargosa observatory, sir. They say they're under Red Alert! All hands to Battle stations! Captain Picard to the Bridge.
RIKER: ( to all ) Red Alert! All hands to Battle stations! Captain Picard to the Bridge.
RIKER: It looks like we're too late.
WORF: ( off console ) There are no other ships in the Sensors show five life signs aboard the station, Captain.
DATA: Sensors show five life signs aboard the station, Captain.
RIKER: The station complement was
PICARD: Secure from Red Alert. Number One, begin an investigation. I'll be in my Ready Room.
RIKER: ( hard ) Make it so.
PICARD: ( hard ) Make it so.
WORF: These blast patterns are consistent with type-three Well, that narrows it to Klingon, Breen or Romulan.
RIKER: Well, that narrows it to Klingon, Breen or Romulan.
BEVERLY: I'm picking up life signs. about twenty meters ahead.
WORF: That rules out Klingons.
WORF: They would not have left anyone Over here.
BEVERLY: Over here.
RIKER: Worf, you're with me. Paskall, you and Mendez search the upper
WORF: Under here.
WORF: It's all right. do not struggle.
RIKER: I'm Commander William Riker of the Starship Enterprise.
SORAN: Soran. Doctor Tolian Soran. Who attacked you, Doctor?
RIKER: Who attacked you, Doctor?
SORAN: I'm not sure. it happened so Commander you'd better take a look at this.
SECURITY OFFICER: ( calls out ) Commander you'd better take a look at this.
WORF: Riker and Worf exchange a look. OFF their reactions.
DATA: Is she still angry?
GEORDI: No. but I'd stay out of Sickbay for a while if I were you. I still don't know why you dropped her in the water.
DATA: I was attempting to. get in the spirit of things. I thought it would be humorous. Data frowns. troubled by this recent experience. He puts Spot down and moves to a bulkhead. He activates a control panel and a small compartment slides OPEN, revealing a small COMPUTER CHIP which is suspended in a glass and metal framework. Data looks at the chip for a beat and Geordi moves to him in concern.
GEORDI: Data. you're not thinking about using that thing are you?
DATA: It has occurred to me on several occasions. But I believe this may be the appropriate time.
GEORDI: Wait a minute. I thought you've always been afraid it would overload your neural net.
DATA: That is true. However, I believe my growth as an artificial life form has reached an impasse. For thirty-four years I have endeavored to become more "human" - to grow beyond my original programming. And yet I am still unable to grasp such a simple concept as humor. This emotion chip is the only Geordi considers a moment, looks at the chip. and reluctantly has to agree.
GEORDI: All right. Data sits down and La Forge moves to stand behind him.
GEORDI: But at the first sign of trouble, I'm going to deactivate it. Geordi works on Data's head for a moment, and then OPENS a panel on Data's head, revealing the blinking circuitry within.
DATA: Geordi works on Data's head for a moment, and then OPENS a panel on Data's head, revealing the blinking circuitry within.
RIKER: We found two dead Romulans aboard the station. We're analyzing their equipment to see if we can determine what ship they came Picard nods absently.
PICARD: There's still no indication of why they attacked the station?
RIKER: We think they were looking for something they practically tore the place apart.
PICARD: ( beat ) Inform Starfleet Command. This could indicate a new Romulan threat in this sector.
RIKER: You want me to contact Starfleet?
PICARD: Is there a problem?
RIKER: No, sir.
PICARD: Thank you, Number One. Picard keeps his back turned, looking out the window. Riker hesitates, awkward.
RIKER: There is something else, Captain. One of the scientists. a Doctor Soran. has insisted on speaking with you. I told him you were busy, sir, but he said it was absolutely imperative that he speak with you right away.
PICARD: Understood. That will be all.
RIKER: Sir. is there anything wrong?
PICARD: No. Thank you. A beat, then Riker turns and EXITS. Off Picard's unreadable face.
GUINAN: You two just volunteered to be my first victims. This is a new concoction I picked up on Forcas Three. Trust me, you're going to love it. She pours two glasses of the liquid. Data takes one and sniffs it, then takes a drink. Geordi watches him closely. Data frowns.
GEORDI: I believe the beverage has provoked an emotional response.
DATA: I believe the beverage has provoked an emotional response.
GEORDI: Really? What do you feel?
DATA: I am uncertain. I have had little experience with emotions. I am unable to articulate the I'll explain later. Data finishes the drink. concentrates, tries to make sense of the rush of feelings. His expression is one of disgust.
GUINAN: I'll explain later. Data finishes the drink. concentrates, tries to make sense of the rush of feelings. His expression is one of disgust.
GEORDI: I'll explain later. Data finishes the drink. concentrates, tries to make sense of the rush of feelings. His expression is one of disgust.
GUINAN: ( to Geordi )
DATA: ( excited ) Yes. That is it. I hate it.
GEORDI: Data, I think the chip is Data looks at Geordi with a big smile on his face.
DATA: Yes. I hate this! It is Another round?
GUINAN: Another round?
DATA: In the b.g., we see Picard ENTER Ten Forward.
PICARD: Doctor Soran.?
SORAN: Yes, yes, Captain thank you for The men shake hands and Picard sits down. Soran is an imposing physical presence, but at the moment he seems very much the eccentric scientists consumed with his work. Picard waves away a waiter.
PICARD: Nothing for me. I understand there's something urgent you need to discuss with Yes. I need to return to the observatory immediately. I must continue a critical experiment I was running on the Amargosa star.
SORAN: Yes. I need to return to the observatory immediately. I must continue a critical experiment I was running on the Amargosa star.
PICARD: Doctor. we're still conducting an investigation into the attack. Once we've completed our work, we'll be happy to allow you and your fellow scientists back aboard the observatory. Until then
SORAN: The timing is very important on my experiment if it is not completed within the next twelve hours, years of research will be We're doing the best we can. Now if you'll excuse me. Picard moves to stand, but Soran reaches out and gently but firmly grabs him by the arm. The unexpected physical contact and the change of intensity in Soran's face stops Picard in his tracks.
PICARD: We're doing the best we can. Now if you'll excuse me. Picard moves to stand, but Soran reaches out and gently but firmly grabs him by the arm. The unexpected physical contact and the change of intensity in Soran's face stops Picard in his tracks.
SORAN: ( cryptically ) They say time is the fire in which we burn. and right now, Captain, my time is running out. ( beat ) We leave so many things unfinished in our lives I'm sure you can
PICARD: I'll see what I can do. Picard walks away without a word before Soran can thank him. Soran looks after him with relief, then pulls out an ANTIQUE POCKET WATCH and opens it. He looks at the watch for a long moment. then snaps it closed and head for the opposite exit from the one Picard took. FOLLOW Soran across Ten Forward.until he suddenly stops in shock at something he sees.
WORF: One of the dead Romulans had a tricorder. We analyzed its sensor logs and found they were scanning for signature particles of a compound called trilithium.
RIKER: An experimental compound the Romulans have been working on. In theory, a trilithium-based explosive would be thousands of times more powerful than an anti-matter weapon. But they never found a way to stabilize it.
WORF: An experimental compound the Romulans have been working on. In theory, a trilithium-based explosive would be thousands of times more powerful than an anti-matter weapon. But they never found a way to stabilize it.
RIKER: Why were they looking for it on a Federation observatory? It doesn't make any sense. Riker considers.
RIKER: ( cont'd ) Have Geordi and Data go over with the next Away Team. tell them to scan the observatory for Aye, sir.
WORF: Aye, sir.
GEORDI: ( off tricorder ) There's no sign of any trilithium in here.
DATA: ( laughing, to himself ) I get it. I get it.
GEORDI: You get what? Data laughs again.
DATA: When you said to Commander "The clown can stay, but the Ferengi in the gorilla suit has to Geordi looks blankly at him for a moment.
GEORDI: During the Farpoint mission. We were on the Bridge and you told a joke. That was the punch line.
DATA: During the Farpoint mission. We were on the Bridge and you told a joke. That was the punch line.
GEORDI: The Farpoint mission? Data, that was seven years ago.
DATA: I know. I just got it. It was very funny.
GEORDI: Geordi indicates a corridor. They EXIT in that 63 INT. OBSERVATORY CORRIDOR - CONTINUOUS 63 A short corridor connecting the Ops Center with other compartments. Geordi suddenly stops in front of what appears to be a standard bulkhead.
GEORDI: Wait a minute. there's a hidden doorway here. I can see the joint of the metal with my VISOR. Geordi runs his finger in a vertical line along what appears to be a smooth bulkhead.
DATA: ( off tricorder ) There appears to be a dampening field in operation. I cannot scan beyond the bulkhead.
GEORDI: I don't see a control panel.or an access port.
DATA: ( off tricorder ) It appears to be a magnetically
DATA: I believe I can reverse the polarity by attenuating my axial Data completes his adjustment and then moves his wrist over the door panel.
DATA: ( joking ) "Open sesame."
DATA: ( smiles ) You could say I have a. magnetic
GEORDI: I'm still not picking up anything. Someone went to a lot of trouble to shield this room. They put their tricorders away and begin looking around the room. Data continues to snicker and giggle as he tries not to laugh at jokes his mind conjures up. Geordi begins inspecting the probes. finally stops at one probe which has SEVERAL ODD DEVICES attached to the side.
GEORDI: Data, take a look at this. You ever seen a solar probe with this kind of configuration? Data uses the tricorder as if it were a puppet as he opens and closes it like a mouth.
DATA: ( making tricorder "talk" ) No, Geordi. I have not. It is most unusual.
GEORDI: Just help me get this panel open. Data helps Geordi as they try to open a panel on the casing of the probe. They open the panel and Geordi looks inside.he reacts to something.
GEORDI: Whoa. my VISOR'S picking up something in the theta band.it could be a trilithium signature. Data suddenly start LAUGHING. Geordi turns in Data, this isn't the time.
GEORDI: Data, this isn't the time.
DATA: ( laughing ) I am sorry. but I cannot stop myself. I think something is
GEORDI: Geordi rushes to him. Data has a look of surprise on his face as he blinks a few times. He sits up.
GEORDI: Data, are you all right?
DATA: I believe the emotional chip has overloaded my positronic relays.
GEORDI: We better get you back to the La Forge to Enterprise. There's no response. Geordi frowns for a beat, then we hear Soran's voice.
SORAN: Is there a problem, gentlemen?
GEORDI: Oh. Doctor. yeah, as a matter of fact, there is. There's a damping field in here blocking our com signal. Will you give me a hand? Over the above dialogue, Soran glances over at the solar probe Geordi was inspecting. He notes the opened panel and a disturbed look crosses his face. Soran looks back at Geordi.
SORAN: I'd be happy to. Soran moves toward them. and then without warning, he punches Geordi in the face, KNOCKING the VISOR across the room. He whirls around and points a phaser at Data, who suddenly looks fearful.
DATA: Please don't hurt me.
PICARD: Tea. Earl Grey. Hot. The cup of tea APPEARS in the replicator and at the same moment, the door CHIMES.
PICARD: Troi ENTERS. Picard would rather not be bothered right now, but he is polite as always.
PICARD: Counselor. What can I do for you?
TROI: Actually. I'm here to see if there's anything I can do for you.
PICARD: Well. I appreciate your concern, but I'd rather not discuss it right now, thank you.
TROI: I'm afraid I can't just leave it at that. The commanding officer of this ship is clearly distraught about something. As ship's Counselor, it's my duty to
PICARD: As ship's counselor, it's your duty to know not only when you're needed. but also when you're You can't fool an empath, Captain. I know exactly when I'm needed. Picard is really not in the mood for this. His tone Well, with all due respect to your Betazoid senses, I prefer to be alone right now.
TROI: You can't fool an empath, Captain. I know exactly when I'm needed. Picard is really not in the mood for this. His tone Well, with all due respect to your Betazoid senses, I prefer to be alone right now.
PICARD: Well, with all due respect to your Betazoid senses, I prefer to be alone right now.
TROI: Very well. I suppose I could make out my weekly report to Starfleet Command without your input. "Admiral Lusby. regarding the unusual behavior of Jean-Luc Picard: I find him increasingly Irritable. remote. and uncooperative. I recommend forced shore leave at a Starbase facility in order to "
PICARD: All right, all right. You've made your point. Troi takes a seat and patiently waits. Picard gets up.moves around the room for a moment.and stops. He speaks in a flat, unemotional tone of voice.
PICARD: The message I received. My brother. and his son my nephew burned to death in a Troi reacts, genuinely surprised.
TROI: Captain, I'm sorry. I know there were a lot of unresolved conflicts between you and your brother.
PICARD: What I can't get out of my mind is the image of Rene my nephew. I just can't believe he's gone. He trails off.
TROI: It's only natural to feel a heightened sense of tragedy when a child dies. But it goes deeper than that, doesn't it? I can sense that Rene meant a great deal to you.
PICARD: In a way, he was as close as I ever came to having a child of my Troi eyes an open photo album on the table. She reaches over and flips through the pages for a moment. There are many photos inside. from many periods in time including one of Picard's brother standing next to his young son. This is the Picard family album.
TROI: Your family history is very important to you, isn't it?
PICARD: ( nods ) Ever since I was a little boy, I remember hearing about the family line. The Picards that fought at Trafalgar. the Picard's that settled the first Martian colony. When my brother married and had a
TROI: . You felt it was no longer your responsibility to carry on the family line.
PICARD: ( nods ) My brother had shouldered that burden. allowing me to pursue my own selfish needs.
TROI: There's nothing selfish about pursuing your own life. your own Picard moves to the window, stares outside. A shadow crosses his face. He's getting to the heart of the You know, Counselor. I'm not getting any younger. For some time now, I've been aware that there are fewer days ahead than there are behind. But I always took comfort in the fact that when I was gone, my family would continue. But now. Picard moves back to the photo album, open it to the last page, an then flips through the remaining pages they are blank.
PICARD: You know, Counselor. I'm not getting any younger. For some time now, I've been aware that there are fewer days ahead than there are behind. But I always took comfort in the fact that when I was gone, my family would continue. But now. Picard moves back to the photo album, open it to the last page, an then flips through the remaining pages they are blank.
PICARD: I've had brushes with death. more than I care to contemplate. I always accepted it as a calculated risk that goes along with wearing this uniform. But now. the idea of death has a terrible sense of finality to He looks at her.
PICARD: I'm the last Picard. A quiet beat as Troi considers him.
TROI: Captain, perhaps we Suddenly, a BLINDING BURST OF LIGHT from outside the windows washes into the room. Troi and Picard rush to the window and shield their eyes against the glare.
PICARD: A quantum implosion has occurred within the Amargosa star. All nuclear fusion is breaking down.
RIKER: A quantum implosion has occurred within the Amargosa star. All nuclear fusion is breaking down.
PICARD: How is that possible?
WORF: Sensor records show a solar probe was launched from the observatory a few moments ago.
RIKER: The star's going to collapse in a matter of minutes. Something beeps on Worf's console.
WORF: Sir, the implosion has produced a level twelve shock wave.
TROI: ( shocked ) Level twelve? That'll destroy everything in this system.
RIKER: ( to Worf ) Did they return to the ship?
WORF: ( works ) No, sir. They are not aboard.
PICARD: How long until the shock wave hits the observatory?
WORF: Four minutes, forty seconds. Picard looks at Riker, who then quickly heads for the Mister Worf. Riker and Worf EXIT.
RIKER: Mister Worf. Riker and Worf EXIT.
RIKER: ( to Worf ) What the hell's he doing?
RIKER: ( yells to Soran ) Soran, did you hear that? There's a level twelve shock wave coming. We've got to get out of here!
HAYES: ( urgent ) Sir. A Klingon Bird of Prey is decloaking off the port bow.
PICARD: 73 EXT. SPACE ( VFX-I ) 73 74 INT. OBSERVATORY PROBE ROOM ( VFX-P ) 74
RIKER: Data! See if you can get to Data looks up at him with a terrified look on his face.
DATA: I. cannot, sir. I believe I Am. afraid. Suddenly Soran's communicator BEEPS. Soran reaches down and grabs the unconscious Geordi by the collar and the two of them DEMATERIALIZE. ( Soran has the VISOR in his hand. ) Riker, Data and Worf react.
PICARD: ( to Con ) Helm, warp one, engage.
B'ETOR: ( Glorious. )
LURSA: HoS qorDu. ( A great power. ) Soran now ENTERS the Bridge. His expression is dark and angry. He is clearly not a prisoner here and he strides up to the sisters.
B'ETOR: ( excited, to Soran ) You've done it, Soran.
B'ETOR: She dabs a trickle of blood at the corner of her mouth. her expression is angry and threatening.
B'ETOR: I hope for your sake that you are initiating a mating ritual.
SORAN: You got careless. The Romulans came looking for their missing Impossible. We left no survivors on their outpost. B'Etor has now gotten to her feet in the b.g.
B'ETOR: Impossible. We left no survivors on their outpost. B'Etor has now gotten to her feet in the b.g.
SORAN: They knew it was aboard the observatory. If the Enterprise hadn't intervened, they would have found it.
LURSA: But they didn't find it. and now we have a weapon of unlimited I have the weapon, Lursa. And if you ever want me to give it to you, I advise you to be a little more careful in the future. B'Etor grabs Soran and holds a wicked-looking knife to his throat.
SORAN: I have the weapon, Lursa. And if you ever want me to give it to you, I advise you to be a little more careful in the future. B'Etor grabs Soran and holds a wicked-looking knife to his throat.
B'ETOR: Perhaps we are tired of waiting. Soran is unfazed by this threat.
SORAN: Without my research. the trilithium is worthless. as are your plans to reconquer the Klingon Empire. Lursa reaches out and calmly pushes her sister's knife Set course for the Veridian system. Maximum warp.
SORAN: Set course for the Veridian system. Maximum warp.
LURSA: ( to Helm ) Bosh-ta-JaH Veridian ( Set course for Veridian )
KLINGON GUARD: What shall I do with this? Soran moves toward Geordi, a grim look on his face.
SORAN: Bring him with me. I need some answers from Mr. La Forge. Soran EXITS.
WORF: I have spoken to the Klingon High Council, sir. They identified the Bird of Prey as belonging to the Duras sisters.
RIKER: ( surprised ) Lursa and B'Etor.? This doesn't make any sense. A renowned stellar physicist somehow uses a trilithium probe to destroy a star, kidnaps Geordi. and escapes with a pair of Klingon renegades. Why? What the hell's going on?
RIKER: How is he?
BEVERLY: It looks like a power surge fused the emotional chip into his neural Will that be a danger to him?
WORF: Will that be a danger to him?
BEVERLY: I don't think so. The chip still seems to be working. I'd feel better if I could take a closer look, but I can't remove it without completely dismantling his cerebral conduit.
RIKER: ( to Data ) Looks like you're stuck with emotions for a while. How do you I am quite. preoccupied with concern about Geordi.
DATA: I am quite. preoccupied with concern about Geordi.
RIKER: We all are, Data. But we're going to get him back.
DATA: I hope so, sir. Data's expression is still one of concern. Beverly pulls Riker aside.
BEVERLY: Wil, I checked into Doctor Soran's Beverly activates the wall monitor and a picture of Doctor Soran along with some biographical information He's an El-Aurian. over three hundred years old. He lost his entire family when the Borg destroyed his world. Soran escaped with a handful of other refugees aboard a ship called the Lakul. The ship was destroyed by some kind of energy ribbon, but Soran and forty-six others were rescued by the Enterprise-B.
BEVERLY: He's an El-Aurian. over three hundred years old. He lost his entire family when the Borg destroyed his world. Soran escaped with a handful of other refugees aboard a ship called the Lakul. The ship was destroyed by some kind of energy ribbon, but Soran and forty-six others were rescued by the Enterprise-B.
RIKER: ( reacts ) That was the mission where James Kirk was killed.
BEVERLY: I checked the passenger manifest of the Lakul. guess who else was on board? She hits a control and suddenly Guinan's face appears on the screen. Riker reacts to the image.
GUINAN: Soran? That's a name I haven't heard in a long time. MOVE TO REVEAL Guinan's Quarters, which are unlike any of the others on the Enterprise. None of the standard furniture, consoles or decoration are present. The floor is made of tile, not carpet. the walls are draped in exotic fabric. The lighting is moody and Picard is standing before Guinan, who is sitting cross- legged on the floor. They talk to each other with an easy familiarity. two old friends who know each other well.
PICARD: Do you remember him?
GUINAN: Oh yes. I remember everyone who was on the Lakul. every face. even the ones who didn't make Guinan stands and begins to move about the room. she's clearly troubled by the memories. She hesitates, looks off into the middle-distance for a few moments. Picard moves to her.
PICARD: Guinan. It's important that you tell me what you know. We think Soran's developed a weapon. a terrible weapon. It might give him enough power to
GUINAN: Soran doesn't care about power or weapons. All he cares about is getting back to the Nexus.
PICARD: What's the "Nexus"? Guinan moves to a table and begins to shift around some exotic-looking alien artifacts. distracting herself. this is difficult for her to discuss.
GUINAN: It's a place I've tried very hard to forget. She makes the decision to plunge ahead.
GUINAN: That ribbon isn't just some random energy phenomenon traveling through space. it's a doorway. It leads to another place. the Nexus. It doesn't exist in our Universe. and it doesn't play by the same rules either.
PICARD: What happened to you?
GUINAN: I can't remember very much. what it looked like or how long I was there. but I do remember how it She turns to him and her face is filled with some kind of awe at the memory.
GUINAN: It was like being inside. joy. As if joy was a real thing that I could wrap around myself. I've never been so content. A long beat as Picard absorbs her words.
PICARD: But then you were beamed away. Guinan shows a rare burst of anger.
GUINAN: I was pulled away. I didn't want to leave; none of us did. I felt like I'd left a part of myself behind. All I could think about was getting back. I didn't care what I had to do. Guinan moves to a window and looks out at the stars.
GUINAN: It took a long time, but eventually I learned to live with it. And I began to realize that my experience in the Nexus had changed me. I knew things about people. about events.about time.
PICARD: Your "sixth sense". I've always wondered where it came from. And what about Soran?
GUINAN: Soran may still be obsessed with getting back. And if he is, he'll do anything to find that doorway But why destroy a star.? Thank you, Guinan. He heads for the door.
PICARD: But why destroy a star.? Thank you, Guinan. He heads for the door.
GUINAN: Let someone else do it, Jean-Luc. Picard stops, looks at her.
GUINAN: Let them send another starship. Don't get near the ribbon. If you go into that Nexus, you're not going to care about Soran or the Enterprise or me. All you're going to care about is how it feels to be there. And you're never going to come Picard weighs her words. sees the warning in her eyes. and carefully backs away and EXITS.
SORAN: ( re: VISOR ) A remarkable piece of equipment. but a little inelegant, wouldn't you say? ( beat ) Have you ever considered a prosthesis that would make you look a little more. normal?
GEORDI: What's normal?
SORAN: Normal is what everyone else is. and what you are not.
GEORDI: What do you want? Soran takes a moment.
SORAN: As you may or may not be aware, I am an El-Aurian. Some people call us a race of "listeners". We Right now, Mr. La Forge, you have my undivided attention. I want to listen to everything you know about trilithium. and me. Geordi thinks.
GEORDI: Trilithium is an experimental compound developed by the Romulans. I think it's a derivative of Soran picks up the PADD from the desk and activates it. Suddenly something small, with sharp edges, can be seen MOVING just underneath Geordi's skin near his chest. Geordi moves his hand to the spot, but then the protrusion is suddenly gone.
SORAN: I don't want a science lecture. You were on that observatory looking for trilithium. why?
GEORDI: I was ordered to by the Captain. On the PADD in Soran's hand, we can now see an interior graphic of Geordi's body sitting in the chair. The graphic is interactive, moving as Geordi moves. A BLINKING DOT represents the movement of the probe inside his body. Right now, the dot is in the middle of his chest.
SORAN: Let's try to move beyond the usual prisoner-interrogator banter, shall we? You have information, and I need it. Did the Captain explain his orders to you? Did he say why you were searching for trilithium?
GEORDI: What about. Guinan? What has she told you about me?
SORAN: What about. Guinan? What has she told you about me?
GEORDI: Guinan? I don't know what you're talking about. On the PADD, we now see the dot has moved to a position next to Geordi's heart. Soran looks up at Geordi.
SORAN: My instincts tell me you're lying. And I know that can't be easy for I can see you have a good heart. Soran taps a control on the PADD. Suddenly Geordi grabs his chest in pain. Soran watches Geordi for a few seconds, then taps the PADD again. Geordi gasps and starts to breathe.
SORAN: Oh. I forgot to tell you. While you were unconscious, I injected a nano-probe into your bloodstream. It's been navigating your cardiovascular system. and right now I've attached it to your left ventricle. A little trick I picked up from the Borg.
GEORDI: ( gasping ) Yeah. they're full of great I just stopped your heart for five seconds. It felt like an eternity, didn't it? Did you know that you can stop the human heart for up to ten minutes before the onset of brain damage?
SORAN: I just stopped your heart for five seconds. It felt like an eternity, didn't it? Did you know that you can stop the human heart for up to ten minutes before the onset of brain damage?
GEORDI: No. I didn't know that.
SORAN: We learn something new about ourselves every day. Now. Maybe I didn't make myself clear. It is very important that you tell me exactly what Captain Picard knows.
GEORDI: I told you everything. you might as well just kill me right now. Soran's features soften as he smiles slightly. For a moment, he looks genuinely compassionate and it's a disturbing contrast to his usual dark intensity.
SORAN: I'm not a killer, Mr. La Forge. Let's try thirty seconds. Soran taps a control on the PADD. Geordi gasps and strains against an unimaginable pain. Soran picks up his pocket watch and opens the cover. sits back in his chair, watching the seconds tick A room filled with exotic-looking devices, sensors and computers which handle the enormous task of tracking the ship's position in space. The monitors around the room display various diagrams of the ENERGY RIBBON ( as seen in the beginning of the film ). Data is sitting at a computer console which has a great deal of complex information on the screen. Picard is standing next to him. Throughout the following, Data seems distracted and preoccupied.
DATA: According to our information, the ribbon is a conflux of temporal energy which travels through our galaxy every thirty-nine point one When is it expected back? Data doesn't answer right away.
PICARD: When is it expected back? Data doesn't answer right away.
PICARD: Sorry, Captain. The Ribbon has already entered the galaxy. It will pass through this sector in approximately thirty-one hours. Picard moves about the room. he's frustrated. tired. but determined to find out what's going on.
DATA: Sorry, Captain. The Ribbon has already entered the galaxy. It will pass through this sector in approximately thirty-one hours. Picard moves about the room. he's frustrated. tired. but determined to find out what's going on.
PICARD: Guinan said Soran was trying to get back to the ribbon. if that's true, then there must be some connection with the Amargosa The star's destruction has had numerous astro-physical effects within this sector. However, none of them appear to have a connection to the energy ribbon.
DATA: The star's destruction has had numerous astro-physical effects within this sector. However, none of them appear to have a connection to the energy ribbon.
PICARD: Give me a list of those effects. I want to know every single thing which has been altered or changed. no matter how It will take a few moments for the computer to compile the Data works the computer and then the computer begins to work. Data sighs his expression becomes downcast and gloomy. He sits down and puts his head in his hands. Picard finally has to say something.
DATA: It will take a few moments for the computer to compile the Data works the computer and then the computer begins to work. Data sighs his expression becomes downcast and gloomy. He sits down and puts his head in his hands. Picard finally has to say something.
PICARD: Data, are you all right?
DATA: No, sir. I am finding it difficult to concentrate. I believe I am overwhelmed with feelings of. remorse and regret concerning my actions on the What do you mean?
PICARD: What do you mean?
DATA: I wanted to save Geordi. I tried. but I experienced something I did not expect. I believe it was fear. Picard regards him sympathetically.
PICARD: Fear is a very difficult emotion to overcome. It's something we all have to learn to deal with.
DATA: But I did not deal with it, sir. I let it prevent me from helping my friend. Does that make me a coward?
PICARD: No. And what you must try to avoid is becoming consumed by another emotion which I believe you're beginning to experience. Guilt. It is a most unpleasant The computer finishes its calculations and the console BEEPS. Data works the console. Information appears on According to our current information, the destruction of the Amargosa star has had the following effects in this sector: gamma emissions have increased by five percent. the starship Bozeman was forced to make a course correction. a research project on Gorik Four was halted due to increased neutrino particles. ambient magnetic fields have decreased by
DATA: ( considers ) Guilt. It is a most unpleasant According to our current information, the destruction of the Amargosa star has had the following effects in this sector: gamma emissions have increased by five percent. the starship Bozeman was forced to make a course correction. a research project on Gorik Four was halted due to increased neutrino particles. ambient magnetic fields have decreased by
DATA: According to our current information, the destruction of the Amargosa star has had the following effects in this sector: gamma emissions have increased by five percent. the starship Bozeman was forced to make a course correction. a research project on Gorik Four was halted due to increased neutrino particles. ambient magnetic fields have decreased by
PICARD: Wait. The Bozeman. why did it change course?
DATA: ( matter of fact ) The destruction of the Amargosa star has altered the gravitational forces throughout the sector. Any ship passing through this region will have to make a minor course
PICARD: ( musing ) A minor course correction. ( beat ) Where is the ribbon now?
DATA: This is its current position.
PICARD: Can you project its course? Data hesitates. still obsessed with his own emotional turmoil. Picard finally has to lay down the law.
PICARD: ( firm ) Data. I have nothing but sympathy for what you're going through. But right now, I need your full attention on the task at hand. If you can't provide it. then I'll have to relieve you of duty until Doctor Crusher can remove this. emotion chip of yours. I'm sorry, but you leave me no other choice.
DATA: I do not wish to remove the chip, sir. Although these emotions are proving difficult to deal with. I cannot imagine going back to a life without them. I have taken an important step toward becoming truly human. If I were to turn back now. I would like to continue in my duties, sir. Picard smiles at him.
PICARD: Courage is an emotion too, Data. Now. can you project the course of the ribbon?
DATA: I believe so.
PICARD: Enhance grid A-nine. Data works and the display now ZOOMS into a single SECTOR. The RED LINE cuts through the sector.
PICARD: Where was the Amargosa star? Data works. A STAR is highlighted near the red line.
PICARD: Now. you said the gravitational forces in this sector have been altered. could that also affect the course of the ribbon?
DATA: ( thinks ) I believe so.
PICARD: That's what Soran's doing. he's changing its course. But why? Why try to alter its path. why not simply fly into it with a ship? Data thinks for a moment.
DATA: Our records show that every ship which has approached the ribbon has either been destroyed or severely damaged. Picard thinks about this. then has a flash of He can't go to the ribbon. so he's trying to make the ribbon come to him. Data, is it going to pass near any M-Class planets?
PICARD: He can't go to the ribbon. so he's trying to make the ribbon come to him. Data, is it going to pass near any M-Class planets?
DATA: ( works ) Yes, sir. There are two in the Veridian system.
PICARD: It's very close to Veridian Three. but not close enough. Picard's mind is going a mile a minute. He suddenly has a horrible realization.
PICARD: Data, what would happen to the ribbon's path if he destroyed the Veridian star itself?
PICARD: That's where he's going.
DATA: It should be noted, sir, that the collapse of the Veridian star would produce a shock wave similar to the one we observed at And destroy every planet in the Picard eyes the graphic with a sense of dread.
PICARD: ( grim ) And destroy every planet in the
PICARD: Are any of them inhabited?
DATA: Veridian Three is uninhabited. but Veridian Four supports a pre- industrial humanoid society.
PICARD: Approximately two hundred thirty A grim beat.
DATA: Approximately two hundred thirty A grim beat.
PICARD: ( to com ) Picard to Bridge.
PICARD: Red Alert, Mister Worf. Set a course for the Veridian system, maximum warp. Picard and Data EXIT Stellar Cartography.
LURSA: Did you get anything from the No. His heart just isn't in it.
SORAN: No. His heart just isn't in it.
KLINGON HELM: ( off console ) We have entered orbit of Veridian Prepare to transport me to the Wait. When do we get our payment?
SORAN: Prepare to transport me to the Wait. When do we get our payment? Soran hands B'Etor a small computer CHIP.
B'ETOR: Wait. When do we get our payment? Soran hands B'Etor a small computer CHIP.
SORAN: This contains all the information you'll need to build a trilithium weapon. It's been coded. Once I'm safely to the surface, I'll transmit the decryption sequence to you. not before.
KLINGON HELM: ( urgent ) Mistress! a Federation starship is entering the system!
LURSA: What? On viewer.
KLINGON HELM: They are hailing us.
B'ETOR: Du'cha ( On speakers. ) The Helm works. We hear PICARD'S COM VOICE.
B'ETOR: What do we do? Soran checks his watch.
SORAN: There's no time for this. Eliminate them.
B'ETOR: ( reacts ) That is a Galaxy class Starship. We are no match for them. I think it's time we gave Mister La Forge his sight back.
SORAN: I think it's time we gave Mister La Forge his sight back. Off Lursa and B'Etor's curiosity.
RIKER: Maybe they're not out there.
PICARD: They're just trying to decide whether a twenty year-old Klingon Bird of Prey is any match for the Federation flagship.
TROI: Or perhaps they're on the Mister Data, scan the planet for life forms. Data smiles, delighted at the request.
PICARD: Mister Data, scan the planet for life forms. Data smiles, delighted at the request.
DATA: I was hoping you would ask me to do that, Captain. I just love to scan for life forms. As Data works, he breaks into a merry little song.
DATA: ( sings ) "Life forms. tiny little life forms. where are the life forms "
PICARD: Sorry, sir. There is too much interference in the planet's ionosphere for an accurate reading. Worf turns to Picard.
DATA: Sorry, sir. There is too much interference in the planet's ionosphere for an accurate reading. Worf turns to Picard.
WORF: Sir, according to my calculations, a solar probe launched from either the Klingon ship or the planet's surface will take eleven seconds to reach the star. However, since we do not know the exact point of origin, it will take us between eight and fifteen seconds to lock our weapons onto They exchange a grim look.
RIKER: ( quiet, to Picard ) That's a pretty big margin of Too big. How long until the ribbon arrives?
PICARD: Too big. How long until the ribbon arrives?
DATA: Approximately forty-seven minutes, I have to find a way to get to An alarm goes off on Worf's console.
PICARD: ( disturbed ) I have to find a way to get to
WORF: Captain, Klingon vessel decloaking directly ahead.
WORF: They are hailing.
PICARD: On screen.
LURSA: Captain. What an unexpected Lursa, I want to talk to Soran.
PICARD: Lursa, I want to talk to Soran.
LURSA: I'm afraid the Doctor is no longer aboard our ship.
PICARD: Then I'll beam down to his location. Just give us his The Doctor values his privacy. He would be quite. upset if an Away Team interrupted him.
B'ETOR: The Doctor values his privacy. He would be quite. upset if an Away Team interrupted him.
PICARD: Very well. I'll beam to your ship and you can transport me to Sir, you can't trust them. They'll kill you just like they Killed Geordi. Lursa and B'Etor exchange a glance.
RIKER: ( urgent ) Sir, you can't trust them. They'll kill you just like they Killed Geordi.
LURSA: ( innocent ) We did not kill your Engineer. He's been. our guest.
RIKER: Then return him.
B'ETOR: In exchange for what?
PICARD: Me. If you let me speak to The two sisters appear to consider this for a moment.
B'ETOR: ( to Lursa ) The Captain would make a much more valuable hostage.
LURSA: ( to Picard ) We'll consider it a prisoner
PICARD: The transmission ENDS. Picard heads for the Turbolift.
PICARD: Number One, you have the Bridge. Have Doctor Crusher meet me in Transporter Room Three. As Picard EXITS.
CHIEF: Receiving the coordinates, Captain.
PICARD: Picard DEMATERIALIZES and at the same instant, Geordi MATERIALIZES. Beverly and Ogawa rush to his aide, pull out their tricorders and scan him. Geordi is conscious, and he's wearing his VISOR.
SORAN: You must think I'm quite the The thought had crossed my mind.
PICARD: The thought had crossed my mind.
SORAN: The only possible reason you're here is because you're not entirely confident you can shoot down my probe after all. So you've come to dissuade me from my horrific plan. Good luck. Soran turns his back on Picard and walks away.
KLINGON HELM: I have established the link.
LURSA: Put it through over here. Lursa and B'Etor move to one of the consoles with a large monitor. The screen shows STATIC for a few seconds, then clears to a distorted view of a CEILING on the ENTERPRISE this is GEORDI'S POV. ( NOTE: The POV is slightly fritzed, but free of the usual VISOR effects. )
LURSA: It's working.
B'ETOR: Where is he? Suddenly, Crusher's face looms large in the picture, as if she's leaning over Geordi. She smiles and starts talking. We can see her lips move, but we can't hear what she's saying.
BEVERLY: ( silent ) Don't worry, there's been no permanent damage. Your heart is perfectly fine. There's been a little arterial damage.
B'ETOR: Human females are so repulsive.
BEVERLY: . and some myocardial degeneration. I'm going to give you some hematozine, and I want to run more tests. but I think you're going to be fine.
GEORDI: Thanks, Doc.
PICARD: You don't need to do this, Soran. I'm sure we could find another way to get you into this Soran gets up and works his control PADD. Suddenly a probe LAUNCHER DECLOAKS in the middle of the plateau. The launcher is a cylindrical apparatus the size of a small car. Soran goes to the launcher, steps onto it and begins working the control panel.
SORAN: ( calm, distracted ) I've spent eighty years looking for another way, Captain. This is the only one. ( beat ) Of course, you could always come with me. You fancy yourself an explorer. Here's a chance to explore something no human has ever experienced.
PICARD: Not if it means killing over two hundred million people. I wonder. did your wife Leandra know that she married a man who was capable of mass murder? This has touched a nerve in Soran. something dark and ugly flickers across his face.
PICARD: ( continuing; pressing on ) When you tucked your children into bed. do you suppose they ever suspected that their father would one day kill millions as casually as he kissed them goodnight? Nice try.
SORAN: Nice try.
B'ETOR: I thought he was the Chief He is.
LURSA: He is.
B'ETOR: Then when is he going to The POV shows Geordi's view as he stops in front of a mirror. wipes away the steam and reveals his own reflection. Lursa and B'Etor gnash their teeth in Soran is working intently on the Launcher's Control Panel. Picard is still walking the perimeter of the Forcefield. he's also still trying to engage Soran, find some way to get to him.
PICARD: What you're about to do is no different from when the Borg destroyed your world. Soran continues to work. keeps his voice calm and You're right. And there was a time when I wouldn't have hurt anyone. Then the Borg came. and they showed me that if there is one constant in this universe, it's death. Afterwards, I began to realize that none of it mattered. We're all going to die anyway. It's only a question of how and when. You will too, Captain. You might contract a fatal disease. you might die in battle. Soran now turns and fixes Picard with a penetrating . or burn to death in a fire. Picard freezes at this. Soran steps off the launcher with a confident look. he moves closer to where Picard is standing.
SORAN: You're right. And there was a time when I wouldn't have hurt anyone. Then the Borg came. and they showed me that if there is one constant in this universe, it's death. Afterwards, I began to realize that none of it mattered. We're all going to die anyway. It's only a question of how and when. You will too, Captain. You might contract a fatal disease. you might die in battle. Soran now turns and fixes Picard with a penetrating . or burn to death in a fire. Picard freezes at this. Soran steps off the launcher with a confident look. he moves closer to where Picard is standing.
SORAN: . or burn to death in a fire. Picard freezes at this. Soran steps off the launcher with a confident look. he moves closer to where Picard is standing.
SORAN: You looked surprised. But you shouldn't be. I've been to the Nexus, Captain. I know things about people. Aren't you beginning to feel time gaining on you? It's like a predator. It's stalking you. You can try to outrun it with doctors. medicines.new technologies. but in the end, time is going to hunt you down. and make the kill. This strikes home with Picard's own recent concerns. he struggles for a moment.
PICARD: We're all. mortal, Soran. It's one of the truths of our What if I told you I found a new The Nexus.
SORAN: What if I told you I found a new The Nexus.
PICARD: The Nexus.
SORAN: Time has no meaning there. The predator has no teeth. Soran glances up at the sky expectantly, then turns away from Picard and goes back to work on the Launcher. OFF Picard's disturbed expression.
LURSA: Where is he now?
B'ETOR: I don't know. he bathed. now he is roaming the ship. He must be the only Engineer in Starfleet who does not go to Engineering!
SORAN: Careful, Captain. That's a fifty gigawatt forcefield. I wouldn't want to see you get hurt.
PICARD: Thank you. Soran returns to working on the Launcher. but Picard looks back down at the root. then walks away, planning his next move.
B'ETOR: 99 INT. ENGINEERING 99
FARRELL: I'd like to run a Level Three diagnostic on the port plasma relays. I think one of the generators is fluctuating.
GEORDI: Okay, let's do it. They both move to consoles.
LURSA: That's it! Replay from time index four-two- B'Etor works. The image on their monitor RUNS BACKWARD for a moment and then FREEZES. On the screen, we can see several of the monitors in Engineering. On the left side of the screen is the large cutaway view of the Enterprise. Lursa touches the diagram.
LURSA: ( continuing ) Magnify this section and enhance. Their shields are operating on a modulation of two-five-seven point
LURSA: Their shields are operating on a modulation of two-five-seven point The sisters exchange an excited glance, then move toward the command area.
B'ETOR: ( calls out ) Adjust our torpedo frequency to match - two-five-seven point
DATA: ( to Riker ) Sir, I am detecting an anomalous subspace reading in Main Engineering. It may be
WORF: ( shocked ) They have found a way to penetrate our shields.
RIKER: Lock phasers and return fire! The Enterprise FIRES at the Bird of Prey. but the phaser shots are stopped by the Klingon SHIELDS, which flash on when they're hit. The Bird of Prey returns FIRE. The shot carves a jagged tear in the Enterprise's hull.
RIKER: ( to Troi ) Deanna, take the helm. Get us out of orbit.
DATA: Hull breach on decks thirty-one Through thirty-five. Another JOLT. The Bridge lights FLICKER. The situation is desperate.
RIKER: ( urgent, to Worf ) Worf, that's an old Klingon ship. What do we know about it? Are there any weaknesses?
WORF: It is a Class D-twelve Bird of Prey. They were retired from service because of defective plasma coils.
RIKER: Plasma coils. is there any way we can use that to our advantage?
WORF: I do not see how. The plasma coil is part of their cloaking There is a sudden EXPLOSION on the upper level. Geordi and the other Engineers rush to deal with it.
GEORDI: Get a stabilizer on that conduit.
RIKER: ( to Data ) Could we access the defective coil and trigger their cloak?
DATA: ( considers ) ( suddenly enthusiastic ) Yes! If we sent a low-level ionic pulse, it might reset the coil and engage the cloaking systems.
WORF: ( onto the idea ) As their cloak begins to engage, their shields will drop.
RIKER: Right. And they'll be vulnerable for at least two seconds. Data, lock onto that plasma coil.
DATA: ( confident ) No problem.
RIKER: Worf, prepare a spread of photon torpedoes. We'll have to hit them the instant they begin to cloak.
WORF: Aye, sir.
RIKER: We're only going to get one shot at this. Target their primary reactor. With any luck, their warp core should implode. Worf works. The Enterprise ROLLS and TURNS back toward the planet, tries to get away from the Klingon ship. But the Bird of Prey follows its every move.
DATA: I have accessed their coil frequency. initiating ionic The ship is hit again. An aft CONSOLE EXPLODES.
RIKER: Make it quick!
LURSA: ( to Navigator ) Target their Bridge.
B'ETOR: Full disruptors. The Navigator suddenly reacts to something on his We are cloaking!
KLINGON HELM: We are cloaking!
B'ETOR: KLINGON HELM
KLINGON HELM: Mistress our shields are down!
RIKER: Worf works.
DATA: ( excited )
YES!!: CUT TO:
SORAN: ( as if to a child ) Don't you have anything better to
GEORDI: ( to com ) La Forge to Bridge. I've got a problem down here. The magnetic interlocks have been ruptured. I need to get the
GEORDI: ( continuing ) Coolant leak! Everybody out. ( on the move, to com ) Bridge, we've got a new problem. We're about five minutes from a Warp core breach. There's nothing I can do.
GEORDI: ( on the move, to com ) Bridge, we've got a new problem. We're about five minutes from a Warp core breach. There's nothing I can do.
RIKER: ( to Troi ) Deanna, evacuate everyone into the saucer section. ( to Data ) Mister Data, prepare to separate the ship.
SORAN: Now, if you'll excuse me, Captain, I have an appointment with eternity and I don't want to be Soran turns and begins to climb up the scaffolding toward the top of the rock face. Picard watches him intently for a few moments. then quickly springs into action.
GEORDI: ( hits combadge ) That's it, Bridge we're all One minute to warp core breach.
DATA: One minute to warp core breach.
RIKER: ( to Data ) Begin separation sequence. ( to Troi ) Full impulse power once we're
DATA: Separation complete. Ten seconds to warp core breach.
TROI: Engaging impulse engines.
RIKER: Helm controls are off-line! They all look at the Viewscreen. The planet is rushing toward them.
TROI: Helm controls are off-line! They all look at the Viewscreen. The planet is rushing toward them.
DATA: Oh, shit.
DATA: ( off console ) I have rerouted auxiliary power to the lateral thrusters. I'm attempting to level our descent.
RIKER: ( to com ) All hands, brace for impact!
PICARD: What's going on? Where am I?
WOMAN: Go on. say something. They're
PICARD: I. don't know what to say.
GIRL: Say Merry Christmas, Papa!
PICARD: ( in a daze ) Merry. Christmas.
CHILDREN: This one's for you. where's mine?. I hope this is the book I asked for. take this one to Isn't the tree beautiful, Papa?
GIRL: ( to Picard ) Isn't the tree beautiful, Papa?
PICARD: Oh yes. yes, it's astonishingly beautiful. All of it.
YOUNG BOY: This is from all of us.
PICARD: Thank you. I can't imagine what it is.
YOUNG BOY: ( excited ) It's a sack-tent!
PICARD: You mean a sextant. And it's a handsome one at that. from about eighteen twenty, I'd say. Wherever did you find it?
GIRL: It's a secret.
PICARD: ( smiles ) Oh, a secret. well, that makes it a doubly special gift. Thank you. thank you all.
CHILDREN: Merry Christmas, Papa. I love You, Father. etc. I'll go get dinner ready. they'll be starving in a minute.
WOMAN: ( to Picard ) I'll go get dinner ready. they'll be starving in a minute.
PICARD: No. this isn't right. this can't be real.
GUINAN'S VOICE: It's as real as you want it to be.
PICARD: Guinan. what's going on? Where am I?
GUINAN: You're in the Nexus.
PICARD: This. is the Nexus?
GUINAN: For you. This is where you wanted to be.
PICARD: But I never had a wife, children, a home like this.
GUINAN: Enjoy them, Jean-Luc. Guinan, what are you doing here? I thought you were on the I am on the Enterprise.I am also here. Think of me as. an "echo" of the person you know. a part of her she left behind.
PICARD: Guinan, what are you doing here? I thought you were on the I am on the Enterprise.I am also here. Think of me as. an "echo" of the person you know. a part of her she left behind.
GUINAN: I am on the Enterprise.I am also here. Think of me as. an "echo" of the person you know. a part of her she left behind.
PICARD: Left behind.?
GUINAN: When the Enterprise-B beamed us off the Lakul, we were partially in the Nexus. The transporters locked on to us. but somehow everyone left a part of themselves All of us.
PICARD: All of us.
GUINAN: All of us.
PICARD: Where is he now?
GUINAN: Wherever he wanted to be.
BOY'S VOICE: Papa, help me build my castle!
PICARD: ( to boy ) In a few minutes.
PICARD: ( continuing, awed, to These are my children. my ( smiles ) Yeah. They're great, aren't they? You can go back and see them born. go forward and see your grandchildren. time has no meaning here.
GUINAN: ( smiles ) Yeah. They're great, aren't they? You can go back and see them born. go forward and see your grandchildren. time has no meaning here.
WOMAN'S VOICE: Dinner's ready! Let's go!
BOY: Papa. are you coming?
PICARD: Go on. go on without me.
PICARD: Guinan. can I leave the Nexus?
GUINAN: Why would you want to leave?
PICARD: ( insistent ) Can I?
GUINAN: Yes. where would you go?
PICARD: I don't understand.
GUINAN: I told you, time has no meaning here. If you leave, you can go anywhere. any time.
PICARD: I know exactly where I want to go. and when. Back to that mountaintop on Veridian Three. before Soran put out the star. I have to stop him.
GUINAN: What makes you think things will be any different this time?
PICARD: You're right. I'll need help. Guinan, will you come back with me? Together, we could
GUINAN: I can't leave. I'm already there,
GUINAN: I know just the guy.
PICARD: James Kirk.
KIRK: Beautiful day, isn't it?
PICARD: Yes. yes, it is.
KIRK: Do you mind?
PICARD: Picard places the log on the block and Kirk gives it a vigorous chop with the axe.
PICARD: Captain, do you realize what
KIRK: Wait a second. I think something's burning.
KIRK: Looks like someone was cooking Come on in, it's all right. This is my house or at least it used to be, I sold it years ago.
PICARD: I'm Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the starship Enterprise.
KIRK: This clock. I gave this clock to I'm from what you would consider the future. the twenty-fourth
PICARD: ( pressing on ) I'm from what you would consider the future. the twenty-fourth
KIRK: ( affectionately ) Jake! Jake, you miserable old Mutt. How can you be here? ( to Picard ) He's been dead seven years.
ANTONIA'S VOICE: Come on, Jim, I'm starving. How long are you going to be rattling around that kitchen?
KIRK: ( amazed ) That's Antonia.
KIRK: Wait a minute.
KIRK: The future. what are you talking about? This is the
KIRK: This is nine years ago. the day I told her I was going back to
KIRK: These were Ktarian eggs her favorite.I was cooking them to soften the blow. And I gave her this.
PICARD: I know how real this must seem to you, but it's not. This isn't Really your house. We've both been caught up in some sort of temporal nexus.
KIRK: Dill weed. There's a bottle of dill weed on the second shelf to the left, right behind the nutmeg.
KIRK: There's a bottle of dill weed on the second shelf to the left, right behind the nutmeg.
PICARD: How long have you been here?
KIRK: I don't know. I was on the Enterprise-B. in the deflector control room. keep stirring these, will you?
KIRK: ( continuing ) The bulkhead in front of me Disappeared. then I was out there chopping wood. ( back to stove )
PICARD: History records that you died saving the Enterprise-B from an energy ribbon eighty years ago. So you're telling me this is the twenty-fourth century. and I'm Not exactly. As I said, this is some kind of.
KIRK: ( amused ) So you're telling me this is the twenty-fourth century. and I'm Not exactly. As I said, this is some kind of.
PICARD: Not exactly. As I said, this is some kind of.
KIRK: Temporal nexus. yeah, I heard you. Something's missing.
PICARD: Captain, I need your help. I want you to leave the Nexus with me.
PICARD: We have to go back to a planet called Veridian III and stop a man from destroying a star. There are millions of lives at stake. You said history considers me dead. Who am I to argue with You're a Starfleet Officer and you have a duty to
KIRK: You said history considers me dead. Who am I to argue with You're a Starfleet Officer and you have a duty to
PICARD: You're a Starfleet Officer and you have a duty to
KIRK: ( hard ) I don't need to be lectured by you. I was out saving the galaxy when your grandfather was still in diapers. And frankly, I think the galaxy owes me one ( beat ) I was like you once. so worried about duty and obligations that I couldn't see anything past this uniform. And in the end, what did it get me? Nothing. Not this ( looking up the stairs ) I'm going to walk up these stairs, march into that bedroom and tell Antonia that I want to marry her.
KIRK: ( looking up the stairs ) I'm going to walk up these stairs, march into that bedroom and tell Antonia that I want to marry her.
KIRK: This time things are going to be
PICARD: ( re: barn ) This doesn't look like your No. no, it's not. It's better.
KIRK: No. no, it's not. It's better.
PICARD: This is my uncle's barn in Iowa.
KIRK: This is my uncle's barn in Iowa.
KIRK: ( re: horse ) I took that horse out for a ride seven years ago. on a spring
KIRK: Just like this. If I'm right, this is the day I met Antonia.
KIRK: This Nexus of yours is very clever. I can start all over again do things right from day
KIRK: ( re: ravine ) I must have made this jump fifty times. and every time it scared the hell out of me. But not this ( beat ) Because. it's not real.
PICARD: ( re: woman ) ( nods ) She's not real either, is she? Nothing here is. nothing here
KIRK: ( nods ) She's not real either, is she? Nothing here is. nothing here
KIRK: It's kinda like. orbital skydiving. Exciting for a few minutes. but in the end, you haven't really done anything. you haven't made a difference.
KIRK: Captain of the Enterprise, huh?
PICARD: That's right.
KIRK: Close to retirement?
PICARD: I hadn't planned on it.
KIRK: Well, let me tell you something - don't. Don't let them promote you. don't let them transfer you. don't let anything take you off the Bridge of that ship. Because while you're there, you can make a difference. You don't need to be on the Bridge of a starship. Come with me. Help me stop Soran. Make a difference again.
PICARD: You don't need to be on the Bridge of a starship. Come with me. Help me stop Soran. Make a difference again.
KIRK: How can I argue with the Captain of the Enterprise? What was the name of that Planet. Veridian III?
PICARD: That's right.
KIRK: I take it the odds are against us, and the situation is grim?
PICARD: You could say that.
KIRK: ( musing ) Of course, if Spock were here, he'd say I was being an irrational, illogical human for wanting to go on a mission like
KIRK: Sounds like fun.
SORAN: Now, if you'll excuse me, Captain, I have an appointment with Eternity and I don't want to be
PICARD: ( desperate ) Kirk there's a control PADD in his right pocket!
KIRK: The twenty-fourth century isn't so
SORAN: His look of shock turns to fury and madness. He turns to Picard.
SORAN: 174B NEW ANGLE ( VFX-P ) 174B
YOU!!: 174B NEW ANGLE ( VFX-P ) 174B
KIRK: Nice shot.
PICARD: I'll find a way to contact the Enterprise. You're going to be all right.
KIRK: Did we do it? Did we make a Thank you.
PICARD: ( beat ) Thank you.
KIRK: Least I could do.for a Captain of the Enterprise.
PICARD: Try to hang on.
KIRK: It was fun.
WORF: Captain, are you all right?
PICARD: LA FORGE
LA FORGE: What about Doctor Soran?
PICARD: You needn't worry about the Doctor
PICARD: Was there a problem with the
GEORDI: You could say that.
OGAWA: That should be the last of the wounded,
BEVERLY: Two hundred thirty-two patients in under two days.
BEVERLY: ( calls out ) Save that stretcher.
OGAWA: Is there another patient?
BEVERLY: No that one's for me.
TROI: Over here, Data! I think I've found something.
TROI: ( off tricorder ) One life sign, very faint.
DATA: ( relieved )
DATA: I am very happy to find you, Spot.
TROI: Another family reunited.
TROI: Data. are you all right?
DATA: I am not sure, Counselor. I am happy to see Spot. and yet I am crying. My emotional program must be malfunctioning again.
TROI: No, Data. I think it's working
RIKER: Is this it?
PICARD: ( relieved ) Yes, Number One. Thank you.
RIKER: I'm going to miss this ship. She went before her time.
PICARD: It's not how many years you've lived, Wil. but how you've lived Someone once told me that time is a predator that stalks us all our lives. But maybe time is also a companion who goes with us on our journey, and reminds us to cherish the moments of our lives. because they will never come again. We are after all. only mortal.
RIKER: Speak for yourself, sir. I kinda planned on living forever.
RIKER: I always thought I'd have a crack at this chair one day.
PICARD: You may still. somehow I doubt this will be the last ship to carry the name Enterprise.
PICARD: ( continuing, to com ) Picard to Farragut. Two to beam
THE END: Writers : Rick Berman Ronald Moore Brannon Braga
