LUKE: ( into comlink ) Echo Three to Echo Seven. Han, old buddy, do you read me? After a little static a familiar voice is heard.
HAN: ( over comlink ) Loud and clear, kid. What's up?
LUKE: ( into comlink ) Well, I finished my circle. I don't pick up any life readings.
HAN: ( over comlink ) There isn't enough life on this ice cube to fill a space cruiser. The sensors are placed, I'm going ( into comlink ) Right. I'll see you shortly. There's a meteorite that hit the ground near here. I want to check it out. It won't take long. Luke clicks off his transmitter and reins back on his nervous lizard. He pats the beast on the head to calm it.
LUKE: ( into comlink ) Right. I'll see you shortly. There's a meteorite that hit the ground near here. I want to check it out. It won't take long. Luke clicks off his transmitter and reins back on his nervous lizard. He pats the beast on the head to calm it.
LUKE: Hey, steady girl. What's the matter? You smell something? Luke takes a small device from his belt and starts to adjust it when suddenly a large shadow falls over him from behind. He hears a monstrous howl and turns to see an eleven-foot-tall shape towering over him. It is a Wampa Ice Creature, lunging at him ferociously.
LUKE: Luke grabs for his pistol, but is hit flat in the face by a huge white claw. He falls unconscious into the snow and in a moment the terrified screams of the Tauntaun are cut short by the horrible snap of a neck being broken. The Wampa Ice Creature grabs Luke by one ankle and drags him away across the frozen plain.
HAN: The Wookiee grumbles a reply.
HAN: All right, don't lose your temper. I'll come right back and give you a hand. Chewbacca puts his mask back on and returns to his welding as Han INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - COMMAND CENTER A makeshift command center has been set up in a blasted area of thick ice. The low-ceilinged room is a beehive of activity. Controllers, troops, and droids move about setting up electronic equipment and monitoring radar signals. General Rieekan straightens up from a console at Han's approach.
RIEEKAN: The sensors are in place. You'll know if anything comes around.
HAN: The sensors are in place. You'll know if anything comes around.
RIEEKAN: Commander Skywalker reported in yet?
HAN: No. He's checking out a meteorite that hit near him.
RIEEKAN: ( indicates radar With all the meteor activity in this system, it's going to be difficult to spot approaching ships. Taking a deep breath, Han blurts out what is on his mind.
HAN: General, I've got to leave. I can't stay anymore. Princess Leia, standing at a console nearby, is dressed in a short white combat jacket and pants. Her hair is braided across her head in a Nordic fashion. She overhears their conversation and seems somewhat I'm sorry to hear that.
RIEEKAN: I'm sorry to hear that.
HAN: Well, there's a price on my head. If I don't pay off Jabba the Hut, I'm a dead man.
RIEEKAN: A death mark's not an easy thing to live with. You're a good fighter, Solo. I hate to lose you.
HAN: Thank you, General. He turns to Leia as Rieekan moves away.
HAN: ( with feeling ) Well, Your Highness, I guess this is it.
LEIA: That's right. Leia is angry. Han sees she has no warmth to offer him. He shakes his head and adopts a sarcastic tone.
HAN: ( cooly ) Well, don't get all mushy on me. So long, Princess. Han walks away into the quiet corridor adjoining the command center. Leia stews a moment, then hurries after him.
LEIA: Han stops in the corridor and turns to face Leia.
HAN: Yes, Your Highnessness?
LEIA: I thought you decided to stay.
HAN: Well, the bounty hunter we ran into on Ord Mantell changed my Han, we need you!
LEIA: Han, we need you!
HAN: Oh, what about you need?
LEIA: Oh, what about you need?
HAN: Oh, what about you need?
LEIA: ( mystified ) I need? I don't know what you're talking about.
HAN: ( shakes his head, You probably don't.
LEIA: And what precisely am I supposed to know?
HAN: Come on! You want me to stay because of the way you feel about Yes. You're a great help to us. You're a natural leader.
LEIA: Yes. You're a great help to us. You're a natural leader.
HAN: No! That's not it. Come on. Aahhh - uh huh! Come on. Leia stares at him, understanding, then laughs.
LEIA: Am I? Then why are you following me? Afraid I was going to leave without giving you a goodbye kiss?
HAN: Am I? Then why are you following me? Afraid I was going to leave without giving you a goodbye kiss?
LEIA: I'd just as soon kiss a Wookiee.
HAN: I can arrange that. You could use a good kiss! Angrily, Han strides down the corridor as Leia stares after him.
THREEPIO: Don't try to blame me. I didn't ask you to turn on the thermal heater. I merely commented that it was freezing in the princess' chamber. But it's supposed to be freezing. How are we going to dry out all her clothes? I really don't Artoo beeps a stream of protesting whistles.
THREEPIO: Oh, switch off.
HAN: ( to Chewie ) Why do you take this apart now? I'm trying to get us out of here and you pull both of these. Chewie grumbles in irritation.
THREEPIO: Excuse me, sir.
HAN: ( to Chewie ) Put them back together right now.
THREEPIO: Might I have a word with you, What do you want?
HAN: What do you want?
THREEPIO: Well, it's Princess Leia, sir. She's been trying to get you on the communicator.
HAN: I turned it off. I don't want to talk to her.
THREEPIO: Oh. Well, Princess Leia is wondering about Master Luke. He hasn't come back yet. She doesn't know where he I don't know where he is.
HAN: I don't know where he is.
THREEPIO: Nobody knows where he is.
HAN: What do you mean, "nobody knows"? Han glances at the fading light at the entrance of the ice cave as night slowly begins to fall on the planet.
THREEPIO: Well, uh, you see. Han jumps down off the lift, as Threepio follows him.
HAN: Deck Officer. Deck Officer!
THREEPIO: Excuse me, sir. Might I inqu. Han abruptly puts his hand over Threepio's mouth as the deck officer Yes, sir?
DECK OFFICER: Yes, sir?
HAN: Do you know where Commander Skywalker is?
DECK OFFICER: I haven't seen him. It's possible he came in through the south entrance.
HAN: It's possible? Why don't you go find out? It's getting dark out there.
DECK OFFICER: Yes, sir. The deck officer leaves hurriedly, as Han takes his hand off Threepio's Excuse me, sir. Might I inquire what's going on?
THREEPIO: Excuse me, sir. Might I inquire what's going on?
HAN: Why not?
THREEPIO: Impossible man. Come along, Artoo, let's find Princess Leia. Between ourselves, I think Master Luke is in considerable danger.
DECK OFFICER: Sir, Commander Skywalker hasn't come in through the south entrance. He might have forgotten to check in.
HAN: Not likely. Are the speeders ready?
DECK OFFICER: Not yet. We're having some trouble adapting them to the cold.
HAN: Then we'll have to go out on Sir, the temperature's dropping too That's right. And my friends out in it.
DECK OFFICER: Sir, the temperature's dropping too That's right. And my friends out in it.
HAN: That's right. And my friends out in it.
ASSISTANT OFFICER: I'll cover sector twelve. Have com-control set screen alpha. Han pushes through the troops and mounts a Tauntaun.
DECK OFFICER: Your Tauntaun'll freeze before you reach the first marker.
HAN: Then I'll see you in hell! Han maneuvers his mount out of the cave and races into the dark bitter EXT. HOTH - ICE GORGE - DUSK The jagged face of a huge ice wall sits gloomily in the dim twilight of a Hoth day. Luke hangs upside down, ankles frozen into icy stalactites, his extended arms within a foot of the snow floor. One side of his face is covered in a dried mask of frozen blood. He opens his eyes as a chilling moan of the hideous ice creature echoes off the gorge walls. Luke pulls himself up, grabs hold of his ankles, and futilely tries to unfasten the throngs. Exhausted, he drops back into his hanging position. As he hangs there, he spies his lightsaber lying near a pile of his discarded gear, about three feet out of reach. He focuses on the saber and, as his hand strains toward the weapon, he squeezes his eyes tight in concentration. Just as the ice creature looms over Luke, the lightsaber jumps into Luke's hand. The young warrior instantly ignites his sword, swinging up, and cuts himself loose from the ice. He flops to the snow in a heap. The startled creature moves back, his giant yellow eyes blinking. Luke scrambles to his feet. He swings his lightsaber and the beast screams in pain.
THREEPIO: You must come along now, Artoo. There's really nothing more we can do. And my joints are freezing up. Artoo beeps, long and low.
THREEPIO: Don't say thing like that! Of course we'll see Master Luke again. He'll be quite all right, you'll see. Stupid little short-circuit. He'll be quite all right. Threepio turns to go back inside the main hangar as Artoo mournfully keeps his vigil.
LIEUTENANT: Sir, all the patrols are in. There's still no contact from Skywalker or Solo.
THREEPIO: Mistress Leia, Artoo says he's been quite unable to pick up any signals, although he does admit that his own range is far too weak to abandon all hope. Leia nods an acknowledgment, but she is lost in thought.
DERLIN: Your Highness, there's nothing more we can do tonight. The shield doors must be closed. He turns to the lieutenant.
DERLIN: Close the doors.
LIEUTENANT: Yes, sir. The lieutenant walks away. Chewie lets out a long, mournful howl, somewhat like a coyote. At the same moment, Artoo begins a complex series of efficient beeps.
THREEPIO: Artoo says the chances of survival are seven hundred seventy-five. to one. Leia stands praying to herself as the huge metal doors slam across the entrance of the ice cave. The loud booms echo throughout the huge cavern. Chewie lets out another suffering howl.
THREEPIO: Actually, Artoo has been known to make mistakes. from time to time. Oh, dear, oh, dear. Don't worry about Master Luke. I'm sure he'll be all right. He's quite clever, you know. for a human being.
BEN: Luke. Luke.
LUKE: ( weakly ) You will go to the Dagobah system.
BEN: You will go to the Dagobah system.
LUKE: Dagobah system?
BEN: There you will learn from Yoda, the Jedi Master who instructed me. The image of Ben fades, revealing a lone Tauntaun rider approaching from the windswept horizon.
LUKE: ( groaning faintly ) Ben. Ben. Luke drops into unconsciousness. Han pulls up and leaps off his mount. He hurries to his snow-covered friend, cradling him in his arms. Han's Tauntaun lets out a low, pitiful bellow. But Han's concern is with Luke, and he shakes him Luke! Luke! Don't do this, Luke. Come on, give me a sign here. Luke doesn't respond. Han begins frantically rubbing and slapping Luke's unconscious face. As he starts to lift the youth, Han hears a rasping sound behind him. He turns, just in time to see his Tauntaun stagger and then fall over into the snow. Han carries Luke to the moaning beast. Then, with a final groan, the Tauntaun expires.
HAN: Luke! Luke! Don't do this, Luke. Come on, give me a sign here. Luke doesn't respond. Han begins frantically rubbing and slapping Luke's unconscious face. As he starts to lift the youth, Han hears a rasping sound behind him. He turns, just in time to see his Tauntaun stagger and then fall over into the snow. Han carries Luke to the moaning beast. Then, with a final groan, the Tauntaun expires.
HAN: Not much time. He pushes Luke's inert form against the belly of the dead beast.
LUKE: ( moaning ) Ben. Ben.
HAN: Hang on, kid.
LUKE: Dagobah system. Han ignites Luke's saber and cuts the beast from head to toe. He quickly tosses it's steaming innards into the snow, then lifts Luke's inert form and stuffs him inside the carcass.
HAN: ( reeling from the This may smell bad, kid.
LUKE: This may smell bad, kid.
HAN: This may smell bad, kid.
LUKE: ( moaning ) .but it will keep you warm. til I get the shelter built. ( struggling to get Ooh. I thought they smelled bad on the outside! The wind has picked up considerably, making it difficult to move. Han removes a pack from the dead creature's back, taking out a shelter container. He begins to set up what can only be a pitiful protection against a bitter Hoth night.
HAN: .but it will keep you warm. til I get the shelter built. Ooh. I thought they smelled bad on the outside! The wind has picked up considerably, making it difficult to move. Han removes a pack from the dead creature's back, taking out a shelter container. He begins to set up what can only be a pitiful protection against a bitter Hoth night.
ZEV: ( into transmitter ) Echo Base. I've got something! Not much, but it could be a life form.
ZEV: ( into transmitter ) This is Rogue Two. this is Rogue Two. Captain Solo, so you copy? Commander Skywalker, do you copy? This is Rogue Two. There is a sharp crackle of static, then a faint voice.
HAN: ( filtered over Good morning. Nice of you guys to drop by.
ZEV: ( switching transmitters ) Echo Base. this is Rogue Two. I found them. Repeat, I found them.
THREEPIO: Master Luke, sir, it's so good to see you fully functional again. Artoo beeps his good wishes.
THREEPIO: Artoo expresses his relief, also. Han and Chewie make their entrance. The Wookiee growls a greeting.
HAN: How are you feeling, kid? You don't look so bad to me. In fact, you look strong enough to pull the ears off a Gundark.
LUKE: Thanks to you.
HAN: That's two you owe me, junior. Han turns as Leia enters the room. He looks at her with a big, devilish grin.
HAN: Well your Worship, looks like you managed to keep me around for a little while longer.
LEIA: ( haughtily ) I had nothing to do with it. General Rieekan thinks it's dangerous for any ships to leave the system until we've activated the energy shield.
HAN: That's a good story. I think you just can't bear to let a gorgeous guy like me out of your sight.
LEIA: I don't know where you get your delusions, laser brain. Chewie is amused; he laughs in his manner. Han, enjoying himself, regards Chewie good-humoredly.
HAN: Laugh it up, fuzzball. But you didn't see us alone in the south Luke sparks to this; he looks at Leia.
HAN: She expressed her true feelings for me. Leia is flushed, eyes darting between Luke and Han.
LEIA: My.! Why, you stuck up,. half- witted. scruffy-looking .nerf- Who's scruffy-looking? I must have hit pretty close to the mark to get her all riled up like that, huh, kid? Leia looks vulnerable for a moment, then the mask falls again, and she focuses on Luke.
HAN: Who's scruffy-looking? I must have hit pretty close to the mark to get her all riled up like that, huh, kid? Leia looks vulnerable for a moment, then the mask falls again, and she focuses on Luke.
LEIA: Why, I guess you don't know everything about women yet? With that she leans over and kisses Luke on the lips. Then she turns on her heel and walks out, leaving everyone in the room slightly dumbstruck. With some smugness, Luke puts his hands behind his head and grins. Suddenly, in the distance, the muffled sound of an alarm is heard.
ANNOUNCER: ( over loudspeaker ) Headquarters personnel, report to command center. The voice repeats the order and Han, Chewie, Artoo, and Threepio hurry out of the room, bidding farewell to Luke.
HAN: Take it easy.
THREEPIO: Excuse us, please.
RIEEKAN: Princess. we have a visitor. The group hurries over to Rieekan.
RIEEKAN: We've picked up something outside the base in zone twelve, moving It's metal.
SENIOR CONTROLLER: It's metal.
LEIA: Then it couldn't be one of those creatures that attacked Luke.
HAN: It could be a speeder, one of ours.
SENIOR CONTROLLER: No. Wait - there's something very weak coming through. Threepio steps up to the control panel and listens intently to the strange signal.
THREEPIO: Sir, I am fluent in six million forms of communication. This signal is not used by the Alliance. It could be an Imperial code. The transmission ends in static.
HAN: It isn't friendly, whatever it is. Come on, Chewie, let's check it out.
RIEEKAN: Send Rogues Ten and Eleven to station three-eight.
HAN: ( over comlink ) Afraid there's not much left.
LEIA: ( into comlink ) What was it?
HAN: ( over comlink ) Droid of some kind. I didn't hit it that hard. It must have had a ( into comlink ) An Imperial probe droid.
LEIA: ( into comlink ) An Imperial probe droid.
HAN: ( over comlink ) It's a good bet the Empire knows we're here.
RIEEKAN: We'd better start the evacuation.
PIETT: Yes, Captain
OZZEL: Yes, Captain
PIETT: I think we've got something, sir. The report is only a fragment from a probe droid in the Hoth system, but it's the best lead we've had.
OZZEL: ( irritated ) We have thousands of probe droids searching the galaxy. I want proof, not leads!
PIETT: The visuals indicate life readings.
OZZEL: It could mean anything. If we followed every lead.
PIETT: But, sir, the Hoth system is supposed to be devoid of human forms. Vader moves to a large screen showing an image of the Rebel snow base. Rebel speeders can be seen approaching the base in the distance.
VADER: You found something?
PIETT: Yes, my lord.
VADER: ( studying the image That's it. The Rebels are there.
OZZEL: My lord, there are so many uncharted settlements. It could be smugglers, it could be.
VADER: That is the system. And I'm sure Skywalker is with them. Set your course for the Hoth system. General Veers, prepare you men.
REBEL CAPTAIN: Groups seven and ten will stay behind to fly the speeders. As soon as each transport is loaded, evacuation control will give clearance for immediate launch.
REBEL FIGHTER: Right, sir.
HAN: ( into comlink, to Okay, that's it. Try it. Off! Turn it off! Turn it off! Off! Smoke rises from a minor explosion on the lifter. Exasperated, Han surveys the new damage.
MEDICAL DROID: Sir, it will take quite a while to evacuate the T-forty- sevens.
LUKE: Well, forget the heavy equipment. There's plenty of time to get the smaller modules on the transports.
MEDICAL DROID: Take care, sir.
LUKE: INT. REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR DECK Pilots, gunners, and R2 units scurry about. Luke, pulling on his heavy-weather jacket, is headed toward a row of armored speeders. He stops at the rear of the Millennium Falcon, where Han and Chewie are trying to repair the right lifter with even more haste than before.
LUKE: Chewie, take care of yourself, As Luke pats Chewie on the arm, Chewie puts his arms around Luke and gives him a tight hug. Han is discussing the lifter with a repair droid when he sees Luke.
HAN: Hi, kid. There's got to be a reason for it. Check it at the other end. Wait a second. You all right?
LUKE: Be careful.
HAN: Be careful.
LUKE: You, too. Luke smiles, then waves at his friend and walks on. After a few steps, he stops and looks back. Han glances up and the two exchange a silent communication, each wishing the other safety, happiness - many things, all difficult to verbalize.
CONTROLLER: General, there's a fleet of Star Destroyers coming out of hyperspace in sector four.
RIEEKAN: Reroute all power to the energy shield. We've got to hold them till all transports are away. Prepare for ground assault. Rieekan exits hurriedly.
VADER: What is it, General?
VEERS: My lord, the fleet has moves out of light-speed. Com-Scan has detected an energy field protecting an area around the sixth planet of the Hoth system. The field is strong enough to deflect any The Rebels are alerted to our presence. Admiral Ozzel came out of light-speed too close to the He felt surprise was wiser.
VADER: ( angrily ) The Rebels are alerted to our presence. Admiral Ozzel came out of light-speed too close to the He felt surprise was wiser.
VEERS: He felt surprise was wiser.
VADER: He is as clumsy as he is stupid. General, prepare your troops for a surface attack.
VEERS: Yes, my lord. Veers turns smartly and leaves as Vader activates a large viewscreen showing the bridge of his mighty ship. Admiral Ozzel appears on the viewscreen, standing slightly in front of Captain Piett.
OZZEL: Lord Vader, the fleet has moved out of light-speed, and we're preparing to. Aaagh!
VADER: You have failed me for the last time, Admiral. Captain Piett. Piett steps forward, as the admiral moves away, slightly confused, touching his throat as it begins to constrict painfully.
PIETT: Yes, my lord.
VADER: the energy shield and deploy the fleet so that nothing gets off that system. You are in command now, Admiral Piett.
PIETT: Thank you, Lord Vader. Piett's pleasure about his unexpected promotion is not an unmixed emotion. He glances warily at the struggling Admiral Ozzel who, with a final choke, stumbles and falls in a lifeless heap before him.
LEIA: All troop carriers will assemble at the north entrance. The heavy transport ships will leave as soon as they're loaded. Only two fighter escorts per ship. The energy shield can only be opened for a short time, so you'll have to stay very close to your transports.
HOBBIE: Two fighters against a Star Destroyer?
LEIA: The ion cannon will fire several shots to make sure that any enemy ships will be out of your flight path. When you've gotten past the energy shield, proceed directly to the rendezvous point. Understood?
PILOTS: ( in unison ) Right. Okay.
LEIA: Good luck.
DERLIN: Okay. Everyone to your stations. Let's go! The pilots hurry away.
RIEEKAN: Their primary target will be the power generators. Prepare to open the shield.
CONTROLLER: Sir, Rebel ships are coming into our sector.
CAPTAIN: Good. Our first catch of the day.
WOMAN CONTROLLER: Stand by, ion control. Fire!
ANNOUNCER: ( over loudspeaker ) The first transport is away. Everyone cheers at the announcement, which echoes through the hangar. Luke turns and walks on, heading toward his snowspeeder. His gunner, Dack, a fresh-faced, eager kid, is glad to see him. They climb in.
DACK: Feeling all right, sir?
LUKE: Just like new, Dack. How about Right now I feel like I could take on the whole Empire myself.
DACK: Right now I feel like I could take on the whole Empire myself.
LUKE: ( quietly, strapping I know what you mean.
TRENCH OFFICER: Echo Station Three-T-Eight.
TRENCH OFFICER: ( over comlink ) We have spotted Imperial walkers!
CONTROLLER: EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - SNOW TRENCH The Rebel troops aim their weapons at the horizon as explosions erupt all around them. They are nervous and their grip on their weapons tightens from the cold and from fear. Behind the troops a dozen snowspeeders race through the sky.
LUKE: ( into comlink ) Echo station Five-Seven. We're on our way.
LUKE: ( into comlink ) All right, boys, keep tight now.
DACK: Luke, I have no approach vector. I'm not set.
LUKE: Steady, Dack. Attack pattern delta. Go now!
LUKE: All right, I'm coming in. He turns his speeder and heads directly at one of the walkers, flying toward its towering legs. The horizon twists as the speeder banks between the legs.
LUKE: ( into comlink ) Hobbie, you still with me?
LUKE: That armor's too strong for On the horizon, another walker moves up past Luke's cockpit window, twisting out of sight as Luke banks and starts another run.
LUKE: ( into comlink ) Rogue Group, use your harpoons and tow cables. Go for the legs. It might be our only chance of stopping them. ( to Dack ) All right, stand by, Dack. Dack is at the gunner's controls.
DACK: Luke, we've got a malfunction in fire control. I'll have to cut in the auxiliary.
LUKE: Just hang on. Hang on, Dack. Get ready to fire that tow cable. Barely keeping his seat in the tumbling ship, Dack struggles to set up his harpoon gun. Luke swings his speeder around and heads toward an oncoming walker. Laser bolts and flak fill the air, creating a deadly obstacle course for the tiny craft.
LUKE: Dack? Dack! Dack is lost. Blood streams down his forehead, which rests on his smoldering controls. Out the back window, an Imperial walker recedes in the distance.
VEERS: Yes, Lord Vader. I've reached the main power generator. The shield will be down in moments. You may start your landing.
LUKE: ( into comlink ) Rogue Three.
WEDGE: ( into comlink ) Copy, Rogue Leader
LUKE: ( over comlink ) Wedge, I've lost my gunner. You'll have to make this shot. I'll cover for you. Set your harpoon. Follow me on the next pass.
WEDGE: ( into comlink ) Coming around, Rogue Leader.
LUKE: ( into comlink ) Steady, Rogue Two
WEDGE: ( to gunner ) Activate harpoon. Wedge's gunner reaches for a firing switch to activate the harpoon. The harpoon flashes out, and speeds toward the receding legs of the EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD The harpoon hurtles toward the walker, In an instant it is embedded in one of the walker's legs.
WEDGE: ( to gunner ) Good shot, Janson.
WEDGE: One more pass.
JANSON: Coming around. Once more.
JANSON: Once more. Wedge swings the speeder between the legs of the giant walker.
JANSON: Cable out! Let her go!
WEDGE: Detach cable.
JANSON: Cable detached.
TRENCH OFFICER: Come on! The troops run toward the downed walker, followed by two Rebel speeders flying overhead. Just as they reach the walker, it explodes, the impact throwing some of the men onto the frozen ground.
WEDGE: ( into comlink ) Whooha! That got him!
LUKE: ( into comlink ) I see it, Wedge. Good work.
RIEEKAN: I don't think we can protect two transports at a time.
LEIA: It's risky, but we can't hold out much longer. We have no choice.
RIEEKAN: ( into comlink ) Launch patrols.
LEIA: ( to an aide ) Evacuate remaining ground staff.
HAN: No, no! No! This one goes there, that one goes there. Right? In another area of the hangar, Threepio watches as Artoo is raised up into Luke's X-wing fighter.
THREEPIO: Artoo, you take good care of Master Luke now, understand? And . do take good care of yourself. Oh, dear, oh, dear.
VEERS: All troops will debark for ground assault. Prepare to target the main generator.
LUKE: ( into comlink ) Rogue Two, are you all right?
ZEV: ( into comlink ) Yeah. I'm with you, Rogue Leader.
LUKE: ( into comlink ) We'll set harpoon. I'll cover for you.
ZEV: ( into comlink ) Coming around.
LUKE: ( into comlink ) Watch that cross fire, boys.
ZEV: ( into comlink ) Set for position three. ( to gunner ) ( over comlink ) Stay tight and low.
LUKE: ( over comlink ) Stay tight and low.
LUKE: ( into comlink ) Hobbie, I've been hit!
HAN: You all right? Leia nods. She is surprised to see him.
LEIA: Why are you still here?
HAN: I heard the command center had been hit.
LEIA: You got your clearance to leave.
HAN: Don't worry. I'll leave. First I'm going to get you to your ship.
THREEPIO: Your Highness, we must take this last transport. It's our only hope.
LEIA: ( to controller ) Send all troops in sector twelve to the south slope to protect the A blast rocks the command center, throwing Threepio backward into Han's ( over loudspeaker ) Imperial troops have entered the Come on. that's it.
ANNOUNCER: ( over loudspeaker ) Imperial troops have entered the Come on. that's it.
HAN: Come on. that's it.
LEIA: ( to head controller ) Give the evacuation code signal. And get to your transports! Leia looks exhausted. Han grabs her and starts to lead her out. As Han, Leia, and Threepio run out of the command center, the code signal can be heard echoing off the corridor walls.
HEAD CONTROLLER: K-one-zero. all troops disengage.
THREEPIO: ( to Han and Leia ) Oh! Wait for me!
OFFICER: Begin retreat!
SECOND OFFICER: Fall back! Troops flee from the battle, the ground exploding around them.
VEERS: Distance to power generators?
PILOT: One-seven, decimal two-eight. Veers reaches for the electrorangefinder and lines up the main Target. Maximum fire power.
VEERS: Target. Maximum fire power.
HAN: ( into comlink ) Transport, this is Solo. Better take off - I can't get to you. I'll get the princess out on the Han and Leia turn and race down the corridor.
THREEPIO: But. but. but. where are you going? Uh. come back!!
THREEPIO: Wait! Wait for me! Wait! Stop! The door to the hangar closes in his face.
THREEPIO: ( exasperated ) How typical. Quickly, the door reopens as Han reaches out and pulls the golden droid Come on.
HAN: Come on.
HAN: Hurry up, goldenrod, or you're going to be a permanent resident!
THREEPIO: Wait! Wait!
HAN: ( to Chewie ) How's this? The Wookiee barks a negative reply.
LEIA: Would it helped if I got out and It might. Threepio clanks into the hold.
HAN: It might. Threepio clanks into the hold.
THREEPIO: Captain Solo, Captain Solo. sir, might I suggest that you. Han gives the gold robot a devastating look.
THREEPIO: It can wait.
LEIA: This bucket of bolts is never going to get us past that blockade.
HAN: This baby's got a few surprises left in her, sweetheart. Han and Leia look out the cockpit window and see a squad of stormtroopers rushing into the far side of the hangar. Quickly, Han straps himself into the pilot's seat and Leia into the navigator's chair.
HAN: Come on! Come on! Switch over. Let's hope we don't have a burnout. A laser hits the window near Chewie as he is settling into his chair. Letting out a loud whelp, Chewie quickly pulls back on the controls and the first stage of engine fire can be heard. Han flashes a big grin at Someday you're going to be wrong, and I hope I'm there to see it. Han looks at Chewie.
HAN: Someday you're going to be wrong, and I hope I'm there to see it. Han looks at Chewie.
LEIA: Someday you're going to be wrong, and I hope I'm there to see it. Han looks at Chewie.
HAN: Punch it! The roar of the Falcon's main engines blasts out everything as the ice- cave wall rushes by outside the cockpit window.
LUKE: Artoo! Get her ready for takeoff. From his ship, Luke sees Wedge in his own X-wing, preparing for Good luck, Luke. See you at the rendezvous. Luke smiles and nods at Wedge, then lowers himself into the cockpit of his X-wing while Artoo waits in the cubbyhole, beeping impatiently.
WEDGE: Good luck, Luke. See you at the rendezvous. Luke smiles and nods at Wedge, then lowers himself into the cockpit of his X-wing while Artoo waits in the cubbyhole, beeping impatiently.
LUKE: Don't worry, Artoo. We're going, we're going. The canopy over the X-wing lowers and snaps shut.
LUKE: ( into comlink ) There's nothing wrong, Artoo. I'm just setting a new course. Artoo beeps once again.
LUKE: ( into comlink ) We're not going to regroup with the others. Artoo begins a protest, whistling an unbelieving, "What?!" Luke reads Artoo's exclamation on his control panel.
LUKE: ( into comlink ) We're going to the Dagobah system. Luke checks his readouts and makes a few adjustments. He rides along with only the soft hum of the instruments to break the silence. Finally, Artoo chirps up.
LUKE: ( into comlink ) Yes, Artoo? Artoo utters a soft, carefully phrased steam of whistles.
LUKE: ( into comlink, chuckling ) That's all right. I'd like to keep it on manual control for a The little droid lets out a defeated whimper. Luke smiles, and continues on his course.
HAN: ( harried ) I saw them! I saw them!
LEIA: Saw what?
HAN: Star Destroyers, two of them, coming right at us. Threepio bumps and bangs his way into the cockpit.
THREEPIO: Sir, sir! Might I suggest.
HAN: ( to Leia ) Shut him up or shut him down! ( to Chewie ) Check the deflector shield! Chewie barks a reply as he readjusts an overhead switch.
HAN: Oh, great. Well, we can still outmaneuver them.
IMPERIAL OFFICER: Take evasive action! Alarms sound all over the huge ship. The two other Star Destroyers get closer, one of them moving over the bridge so close that it makes brushing contact with it.
HAN: Prepare to make the jump to light- But, sir! The buffeting of lasers becomes louder and stronger.
THREEPIO: But, sir! The buffeting of lasers becomes louder and stronger.
LEIA: They're getting closer!
HAN: ( with a gleam in his Oh yeah? Watch this. Expectantly, they look out the cockpit window as stars do not go into hyperspace, but just sit there. Han and Chewie look at each other and are thrown into an acute state of Watch what? Han tries again. Still nothing.
LEIA: Watch what? Han tries again. Still nothing.
HAN: I think we're in trouble.
THREEPIO: If I may say so, sir, I noticed earlier that the hyperdrive motivator has been damaged. It's impossible to go to light-speed!
HAN: We're in trouble! The explosions become heavier.
HAN: Horizontal boosters.! Alluvial dampers.! Well that's not it. Bring me the hydrospanners! Chewie hurries over to the pit and places the tools on the edge.
HAN: I don't know how we're going to get out of this one. Suddenly, a loud thump hits the side of the Falcon, causing it to lurch radically. Chewie barks. The tools fall into the pit on top of Han.
HAN: Oww! Chewie! More turbulence rocks the ship.
HAN: That was no laser blast! Something hit us.
LEIA: ( over comlink ) Han, get up here!
HAN: Come on, Chewie! Han climbs out of the hold like a shot. Both he and Chewie run out of the hold and toward the cockpit.
LEIA: Han changes places with Leia who has been at the controls, and Chewie gets into his chair. Han works his controls as a chunk of rock crosses in front of the ship.
HAN: Oh, no! Chewie, set two-seven- What are you doing? You're not actually going into an asteroid They'd be crazy to follow us, wouldn't they? Another asteroid thumps against the ship and Leia winces at the jolt.
LEIA: What are you doing? You're not actually going into an asteroid They'd be crazy to follow us, wouldn't they? Another asteroid thumps against the ship and Leia winces at the jolt.
HAN: They'd be crazy to follow us, wouldn't they? Another asteroid thumps against the ship and Leia winces at the jolt.
LEIA: You don't have to do this to impress me.
THREEPIO: Sir, the possibility of successfully navigating an asteroid field is approximately three thousand, seven hundred and twenty to one.
HAN: Never tell me the odds!
HAN: You said you wanted to be around when I made a mistake; well, this could be it, sweetheart.
LEIA: I take it back. We're going to get pulverized if we stay out here much longer. The group watches as more asteroids race by outside the window.
HAN: I'm not going to argue with that.
THREEPIO: I'm going in closer to one of those big ones.
HAN: I'm going in closer to one of those big ones.
LEIA: Chewbacca barks the same word, only louder.
THREEPIO: Chewbacca barks the same word, only louder.
THREEPIO: Oh, this is suicide! Han notices something on his main scope and nudges his faithful Wookiee, pointing.
HAN: There. That looks pretty good.
LEIA: What looks pretty good?
HAN: Yeah. That'll do nicely.
THREEPIO: ( to Leia ) Excuse me, ma'am, but where are we going? Out the cockpit window, they see that they are skimming the surface of the enormous asteroid and nearing a large crater.
LEIA: I hope you know what you're doing.
HAN: Yeah, me too.
LUKE: ( into comlink ) Yes, that's it. Dagobah. Artoo beeps a hopeful inquiry.
LUKE: ( into comlink ) No, I'm not going to change my mind about this. ( getting a little nervous ) I'm not picking up any cities or technology. Massive life-form readings, though. There's something alive down there. Artoo beeps, this time a slightly worried question.
LUKE: ( into comlink ) Yes, I'm sure it's perfectly safe for droids.
LUKE: ( into comlink ) I know, I know! All the scopes are dead. I can't see a thing! Just hang on, I'm going to start the landing cycle. The blast of the retrorockets is deafening, drowning out Artoo's electronic squeals. Suddenly, there is a cracking sound as if limbs were being broken off trees and then a tremendous jolt as the spacecraft stops. Luke pulls a switch and his canopy pops open.
LUKE: No, Artoo, you stay put. I'll have a look around. Artoo lets out a short beep. As Luke moves along the nose, Artoo loses his balance and disappears with a splash into the boggy lake.
LUKE: Luke kneels and leans over the plane looking for Artoo, but the water is still and reveals no sign of the little droid.
LUKE: Artoo! Where are you? A small periscope breaks the surface of the water and a gurgly beep is heard. The periscope starts to move to shore. Relieved, Luke starts running along the nose of the fighter to its tip.
LUKE: Artoo! You be more careful. The outline of the shore is now more than ten feet away. Luke jumps off the plane into the water, scrambles up to the shore, and turns to look for Artoo. The periscope still steadily moves toward Artoo - that way! Suddenly, through the thick fog layer, a dark shape appears, moving toward the little droid. The dark, sinuous bog beast dives beneath the swampy water, making a loud clunk against Artoo's metal hull. The droid disappears from sight, uttering a pathetic electronic scream. Holding his ignited lightsaber before him, Luke wades a few feet into the murky pool, looking for any sign of his little friend.
LUKE: Artoo - that way! Suddenly, through the thick fog layer, a dark shape appears, moving toward the little droid. The dark, sinuous bog beast dives beneath the swampy water, making a loud clunk against Artoo's metal hull. The droid disappears from sight, uttering a pathetic electronic scream. Holding his ignited lightsaber before him, Luke wades a few feet into the murky pool, looking for any sign of his little friend.
LUKE: The black surface is still as death itself. until a few bubbles begin to appear. Then, phheewaat!! The runt-size robot is spit out of the water, makes a graceful arc, and comes crashing down into a patch of soft gray moss.
LUKE: Oh, no! Are you all right? Come on. You're lucky you don't taste very good. Anything broken? Luke helps Artoo to his feet and begins wiping the mud and roots from his round metal body. Artoo responds with feeble, soggy beeps.
LUKE: If you're saying coming here was a bad idea, I'm beginning to agree with you. Oh, Artoo, what are we doing here? It's like. something out of a dream, or, I don't know. Maybe I'm just going crazy. As Luke glances around at the spooky swamp jungle that surrounds him, Artoo ejects a stream of muddy water from one of his cranial ports.
VADER: Yes, Admiral?
PIETT: Millennium Falcon, lord. But. it has entered an asteroid field and we cannot risk.
VADER: ( interrupting ) Asteroids do not concern me, Admiral. I want that ship and not excuses.
PIETT: Yes, lord.
HAN: I'm going to shut down everything but the emergency power systems.
THREEPIO: Sir, I'm almost afraid to ask, but. does that include shutting me down, too? Chewie barks "yes". But Han thinks otherwise.
HAN: No, I need you to talk to the Falcon, find out what's wrong with the hyperdrive. Suddenly, the ship lurches, causing all the loose items in the cockpit to go flying. Chewie howls.
THREEPIO: Sir, it's quite possible this asteroid is not entirely stable.
HAN: Not entirely stable? I'm glad you're here to tell us these things. Chewie, take the professor in the back and plug him into the hyperdrive.
THREEPIO: Oh! Sometimes I just don't understand human behavior. After all, I'm only trying to do my job in the most. The sliding door closes behind the indignant Threepio as Chewie and he move back to the hold. Suddenly, the ship lurches again, throwing Leia across the cabin into Han's arms. Then, abruptly, the motion stops as suddenly as it started. With some surprise, Han and Leia realize they are in each other's arms.
LEIA: Let go.
HAN: Let go, please. Leia flushes, averting her eyes. She's not exactly fighting to get free. But, of course, Han blows it.
LEIA: Let go, please. Leia flushes, averting her eyes. She's not exactly fighting to get free. But, of course, Han blows it.
HAN: Don't get excited. The anger rises in Leia.
LEIA: Captain, being held by you isn't quite enough to get me excited.
HAN: Sorry, sweetheart. We haven't got time for anything else. Han grins quickly wickedly at Leia as he turns and exits through the door. Leia's confused emotions show clearly on her lovely face.
LUKE: Ready for some power? Okay. Let's see now. Put that in there. There you go. The droid whistles his appreciation. Luke then opens a container of processed food and sits before the thermal heater.
LUKE: ( sighs ) Now all I have to do is find this Yoda. if he even exists. Nervously, he looks around at the foreboding jungle.
LUKE: Still. there's something familiar about this place. I feel like. I don't know.
STRANGE VOICE: Feel like what? Luke jumps out of his skin. Artoo screeches in terror. The young warrior grabs for his lightsaber as he spins around, looking for the speaker. Mysteriously standing right in front of Luke is a strange, bluish creature, not more than two feet tall. The wizened little thing is dressed in rags. It motions toward Luke's sword.
LUKE: ( looking at the Like we're being watched!
CREATURE: Away with your weapon! I mean you no harm. After some hesitation, Luke puts away his weapon, although he really doesn't understand why. Artoo watches with interest.
CREATURE: I am wondering, why are you here?
LUKE: I'm looking for someone.
CREATURE: Looking? Found someone, you have, I would say, hmmm? The little creature laughs.
LUKE: ( Trying to keep from Help you I can. Yes, mmmm.
CREATURE: Help you I can. Yes, mmmm.
LUKE: I don't think so. I'm looking for a great warrior.
CREATURE: Ahhh! A great warrior. Wars not make one great. With the aid of a walking stick, the tiny stranger moves over to one of the cases of supplies. He begins to rummage around. Artoo moves to the edge of the case - standing almost eye level to the creature who is carelessly handling the supplies - and squeaks his Their tiny visitor pick up the container of food Luke was eating from and takes a bite.
LUKE: Put that down. Hey! That's my The creature spits out the bite he has taken. He makes a face.
CREATURE: How you get so big, eating food of this kind? He flips the container in Luke's direction and reaches into one of Luke's supply cases.
LUKE: Listen, friend, we didn't mean to land in that puddle, and if we could get our ship out, we would, but we can't, so why don't you just.
CREATURE: ( teasing ) Aww, cannot get your ship out? The creature spots something of interest in Luke's case. Luke loses patience and grabs the case away. The creature retains his prize - a tiny power lamp - and examines it with delight.
LUKE: Hey, you could have broken this. Don't do that. Ohhh. you're making a mess. Hey, give me that!
CREATURE: ( retreating with Mine! Or I will help you not. Clutching its treasure, the creature backs away from Luke, drawing closer to Artoo. As Luke and the creature argue, one of Artoo's little arms slowly moves out toward the power lamp, completely unnoticed by the creature.
LUKE: I don't want your help. I want my lamp back. I'll need it to get out of this slimy mudhole.
CREATURE: Mudhole? Slimy? My home this is. Artoo grabs hold of the lamp and the two little figures are immediately engaged in a tug-of-war over it. Artoo beeps a few angry, "Give me thats."
CREATURE: Ah, ah, ah!
LUKE: Oh, Artoo, let him have it!
CREATURE: Mine! Mine!
LUKE: The creature lets go with one hand and pokes Artoo lightly with one finger. Artoo reacts with a startled squeal, and lets go.
CREATURE: The creature lets go with one hand and pokes Artoo lightly with one finger. Artoo reacts with a startled squeal, and lets go.
CREATURE: ( fed up ) Now will you move along, little fella? We're got a lot of work to do.
LUKE: ( fed up ) Now will you move along, little fella? We're got a lot of work to do.
CREATURE: No! No, no! Stay and help you, I will. Find your friend, hmm?
LUKE: I'm not looking for a friend. I'm looking for a Jedi Master.
CREATURE: Oohhh. Jedi Master. Yoda. You seek Yoda.
LUKE: You know him?
CREATURE: Mmm. Take you to him, I will. Yes, yes. But now, we must eat. Come. Good food. Come. With that, the creature scurries out of the clearing, laughing merrily. Luke stares after him. All he sees is the faint light from the small power lamp moving through the fog. Luke makes his decision and starts after the creature.
CREATURE: ( in the distance ) Come, come. Artoo, very upset, whistles a blue streak of protest.
LUKE: Stay here and watch after the camp, Artoo. Artoo beeps even more frantically. But as Luke disappears from view, the worried little droid grows quieter, and utters a soft electronic INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - MAIN HOLD AREA Threepio whistles and beeps a strange dialect into the control panel in front of him. The control panel whistles back a few mystifying beeps.
THREEPIO: Oh, where is Artoo when I need Han enters the hold area and kneels on the floor near the control box.
THREEPIO: Sir, I don't know where your ship learned to communicate, but it has the most peculiar dialect. I believe, sir, it says that the power coupling on the negative axis has been polarized. I'm afraid you'll have to replace it.
HAN: Well, of course I'll have to replace He hands a wire coil up to Chewie who is working near the ceiling.
HAN: Here! And Chewie. Chewie brings his head back through the trap door in the ceiling and whines. Han glances back at Threepio, then speaks quietly to Chewie so only he can hear.
HAN: ( continuing ) . I think we'd better replace the negative power coupling. Leia finishes welding the valves she has been working on and attempts to reengage the system by pulling a lever attached to the valve. It doesn't budge. Han notices her struggle, and moves to help her. She rebuffs him.
HAN: Hey, Your Worship, I'm only trying to help.
LEIA: ( still struggling ) Would you please stop calling me Han hears a new tone in her voice. He watches her pull on the lever.
HAN: Sure, Leia.
LEIA: Oh, you make it so difficult I do, I really do. You could be a little nicer, though. Come on, admit it. Sometimes you think I'm all right. She lets go of the lever and rubs her sore hand.
HAN: I do, I really do. You could be a little nicer, though. Come on, admit it. Sometimes you think I'm all right. She lets go of the lever and rubs her sore hand.
LEIA: ( a little smile, . when you aren't acting like a scoundrel.
HAN: ( laughs ) Scoundrel? Scoundrel? I like the sound of that. With that, Han takes her hand and starts to massage it.
LEIA: Stop that.
HAN: Stop what? Leia is flushes, confused.
LEIA: Stop that! My hands are dirty.
HAN: My hands are dirty, too. What are you afraid of?
LEIA: ( looking right Han looks at her with a piercing look. He's never looked more handsome, more dashing, more confident. He reaches out slowly and takes Leia's hand again from where it is resting on a console. He draws it toward him.
HAN: You're trembling.
LEIA: I'm not trembling. Then with an irresistible combination of physical strength and emotional power, the space pirate begins to draw Leia toward him. very slowly.
HAN: You like me because I'm a scoundrel. There aren't enough scoundrels in your life. Leia is now very close to Han and as she speaks, her voice becomes an excited whisper, a tone completely in opposition to her words.
LEIA: I happen to like nice men.
HAN: I'm a nice man.
LEIA: No, you're not. You're. He kisses her now, with slow, hot lips. He takes his time, as though he had forever, bending her body backward. She has never been kissed like this before, and it almost makes her faint. When he stops, she regains her breath and tries to work up some indignation, but finds it hard to talk. Suddenly, Threepio appears in the doorway, speaking excitedly.
THREEPIO: Sir, sir! I've isolated the reverse power flux coupling. Han turns slowly, icily, from their embrace.
HAN: Thank you. Thank you very much.
THREEPIO: Oh, you're perfectly welcome, sir. The moment spoiled, Han marches out after Threepio.
NEEDA: ( in hologram ) . and that, Lord Vader, was the last time they appeared in any of our scopes. Considering the amount of damage we've sustained, they must have been destroyed.
VADER: No, Captain, they're alive. I want every ship available to sweep the asteroid field until they are found. The Imperial star captains fade out one by one as Vader turns to Admiral Piett.
PIETT: Yes, Admiral, what is it? The admiral is scared, his face white as a sheet.
VADER: Yes, Admiral, what is it? The admiral is scared, his face white as a sheet.
PIETT: The Emperor commands you make contact with him.
VADER: Move the ship out of the asteroid field so that we can send a clear Yes, my lord.
PIETT: Yes, my lord.
VADER: What is thy bidding, my master?
EMPEROR: There is a great disturbance in the Force.
VADER: I have felt it.
EMPEROR: We have a new enemy - Luke Yes, my master.
VADER: Yes, my master.
EMPEROR: He could destroy us.
VADER: He's just a boy. Obi-Wan can no longer help him.
EMPEROR: The Force is strong with him. The son of Skywalker must not become a If he could be turned, he would become a powerful ally.
VADER: If he could be turned, he would become a powerful ally.
EMPEROR: Yes. Yes. He would be a great asset. Can it be done?
VADER: He will join us or die, my Vader kneels. The supreme Emperor passes a hand over the crouched Lord of the Sith and fades away.
LUKE: Look, I'm sure it's delicious. I just don't understand why we can't see Yoda now.
CREATURE: Patience! For the Jedi it is time to eat as well. Eat, eat. Hot. Good food, hm? Good, hmm? Moving with some difficulty in the cramped quarters, Luke sits down near the fire and serves himself from the pot. Tasting the unfamiliar concoction, he is pleasantly surprised.
LUKE: How far away is Yoda? Will it take us long to get there?
CREATURE: Not far. Yoda not far. Patience. Soon you will be with him. Rootleaf, I cook. Why wish you become Jedi? Hm?
LUKE: Mostly because of my father, I Ah, your father. Powerful Jedi was he, powerful Jedi, mmm.
CREATURE: Ah, your father. Powerful Jedi was he, powerful Jedi, mmm.
LUKE: ( a little angry ) Oh, come on. How could you know my father? You don't even know who I am. ( fed up ) Oh, I don't know what I'm doing here. We're wasting our time. The creature turns away from Luke and speaks to a third party.
CREATURE: ( irritated ) I cannot teach him. The boy has no patience. Luke's head spins in the direction the creature faces. But there is no one there. The boy is bewildered, but it gradually dawns on him that the little creature is Yoda, the Jedi Master, and that he is speaking with Ben.
BEN'S VOICE: He will learn patience.
YODA: Hmmm. Much anger in him, like his father.
BEN'S VOICE: Was I any different when you taught me?
YODA: Hah. He is not ready.
LUKE: Yoda! I am ready. I. Ben! I can be a Jedi. Ben, tell him I'm Trying to see Ben, Luke starts to get up but hits his head on the low Ready, are you? What know you of ready? For eight hundred years have I trained Jedi. My own counsel will I keep on who is to be trained! A Jedi must have the deepest commitment, the most serious mind. This one a long time have I watched. All his life has he looked away. to the future, to the horizon. Never his mind on where he was. Hmm? What he was doing. Hmph. Adventure. Heh! Excitement. Heh! A Jedi craves not these things. You are reckless! Luke looks down. He knows it is true.
YODA: Ready, are you? What know you of ready? For eight hundred years have I trained Jedi. My own counsel will I keep on who is to be trained! A Jedi must have the deepest commitment, the most serious mind. This one a long time have I watched. All his life has he looked away. to the future, to the horizon. Never his mind on where he was. Hmm? What he was doing. Hmph. Adventure. Heh! Excitement. Heh! A Jedi craves not these things. You are reckless! Luke looks down. He knows it is true.
BEN'S VOICE: So was I, if you'll remember.
YODA: He is too old. Yes, too old to begin the training. Luke thinks he detects a subtle softening in Yoda's voice.
LUKE: But I've learned so much. Yoda turns his piercing gaze on Luke, as though the Jedi Master's huge eyes could somehow determine how much the boy had learned. After a long moment, the little Jedi turns toward where he alone sees Ben.
YODA: ( sighs ) Will he finished what he begins?
LUKE: I won't fail you - I'm not afraid.
YODA: ( turns slowly toward Oh, you will be. You will be.
THREEPIO: Sir, if I may venture an opinion.
HAN: I'm not really interested in your opinion, Threepio. Leia rushes into the cabin just as Han drops the final floor panel into There's something out there.
LEIA: ( out of breath ) There's something out there.
HAN: Outside, in the cave. As she speaks, there comes a sharp banging on the hull. Chewie looks up and barks anxiously.
LEIA: Outside, in the cave. As she speaks, there comes a sharp banging on the hull. Chewie looks up and barks anxiously.
THREEPIO: There it is. Listen! Listen!
HAN: I'm going out there.
LEIA: Are you crazy?!
HAN: I just got this bucket back together. I'm not going to let something tear it apart. He and Chewie grab their breath masks off a rack and hurry out. Leia Then I'm going with you.
LEIA: Then I'm going with you.
THREEPIO: I think it might be better if I stay here and guard the ship. Oh, no.
LEIA: This ground sure feels strange. It doesn't feel like rock at all. Han kneels and studies the ground, then attempts to study the outline of the cave.
HAN: There's an awful lot of moisture in here.
LEIA: I don't know. I have a bad feeling about this.
HAN: Chewie barks through his face mask, and points toward the ship's cockpit. A five-foot-long shape can be seen moving across the top of the Falcon. The leathery creature lets out a screech as Han blasts it with a laser bolt.
HAN: ( to Leia ) Watch out! The black shape tumbles off the spaceship and onto the ground in front of the princess. Han bends down to investigate the dead creature.
HAN: Yeah, that's what I thought. Mynock. Chewie, check the rest of the ship, make sure there aren't any more attached. They're chewing on the power cables.
LEIA: Go on inside. We'll clean them off if there are any more. Just then, a swarm of the ugly creatures swoops through the air. Leia puts her arms over her head to protect herself as she runs toward the ship. Chewie shoos another Mynock away with his blaster. Several of the batlike creatures flap their wings loudly against the cockpit window of the Falcon. Inside, Threepio shudders at their presence.
HAN: Go on inside. We'll clean them off if there are any more. Just then, a swarm of the ugly creatures swoops through the air. Leia puts her arms over her head to protect herself as she runs toward the ship. Chewie shoos another Mynock away with his blaster. Several of the batlike creatures flap their wings loudly against the cockpit window of the Falcon. Inside, Threepio shudders at their presence.
THREEPIO: Ohhh! Go away! Go away! Beastly little thing. Shoo! Shoo! Han looks around the strange, dripping cave.
HAN: Wait a minute. He unholsters his blaster and fires at the far side of the huge cave. The cavern begins to shake and the ground starts to buckle. Chewie barks and moves for the ship, followed closely by Leia and Han. The large wings of the Mynocks flap past them as they protect their faces and run up the platform.
HAN: All right, Chewie, let's get out of here! The Wookiee heads for the cockpit as Han, followed by Threepio, rushes to the hold area and checks the scopes on the control panel. Leia hurries after.
LEIA: The Empire is still out there. I don't think it's wise to. Han rushes past her and heads for the cockpit.
HAN: ( interrupting ) No time to discuss this in And with that he is gone. The main engines of the Falcon begin to whine. Leia races after him, bouncing around in the shaking ship.
LEIA: ( angry ) I am not a committee!
LEIA: You can't make the jump to light- speed in this asteroid field.
HAN: Sit down, sweetheart. We're taking off! As the ship begins to move forward, Chewie barks. He notices something out the window ahead. Threepio sees it too.
THREEPIO: I see it, I see it. Suddenly, a row of jagged white stalagmites and stalactites can be seen surrounding the entrance. And as the Falcon moves forward, the entrance to the cave grows ever smaller. Han pulls hard on the throttle, sending his ship surging forward.
HAN: I see it, I see it. Suddenly, a row of jagged white stalagmites and stalactites can be seen surrounding the entrance. And as the Falcon moves forward, the entrance to the cave grows ever smaller. Han pulls hard on the throttle, sending his ship surging forward.
THREEPIO: We're doomed!
LEIA: The cave is collapsing.
HAN: This is no cave.
LEIA: Leia's mouth drops open . She sees that the rocks of the cave entrance are not rocks at all, but giant teeth, quickly closing around the tiny ship. Chewie howls.
YODA: Run! Yes. A Jedi's strength flows from the Force. But beware of the dark side. Anger. fear. aggression. The dark side of the Force are they. Easily they flow, quick to join you in a fight. If once you start down the dark path, forever will it dominate your destiny, consume you it will, as it did Obi-Wan's apprentice.
LUKE: Vader. Is the dark side stronger?
YODA: No. no. no. Quicker, easier, more seductive.
LUKE: But how am I to know the good side from the bad?
YODA: You will know. When you are calm, at peace. Passive. A Jedi uses the Force for knowledge and defense, never for attack.
LUKE: But tell me why I can't.
YODA: ( interrupting ) No, no, there is no why. Nothing more will I teach you today. Clear your mind of questions. Mmm. Mmmmmmmm. Artoo beeps in the distance as Luke lets Yoda down to the ground. Breathing heavily, he takes his shirt from a nearby tree branch and pulls it on. He turns to see a huge, dead, black tree, its base surrounded by a few feet of water. Giant, twisted roots form a dark and sinister cave on one side. Luke stares at the tree, trembling.
LUKE: There's something not right here. Yoda sits on a large root, poking his Gimer Stick into the dirt.
LUKE: I feel cold, death.
YODA: That place. is strong with the dark side of the Force. A domain of evil it is. In you must go.
LUKE: What's in there?
YODA: Only what you take with you. Luke looks warily between the tree and Yoda. He starts to strap on his weapon belt.
YODA: Your weapons. you will not need them. Luke gives the tree a long look, than shakes his head "no." Yoda shrugs. Luke reaches up to brush aside some hanging vines and enters the tree.
PIETT: Bounty hunters. We don't need that scum.
FIRST CONTROLLER: Yes, sir.
PIETT: Those Rebels won't escape us. A second controller interrupts.
SECOND CONTROLLER: Sir, we have a priority signal from the Star Destroyer Avenger.
PIETT: The group standing before Vader is a bizarre array of galactic fortune hunters There is Bossk, a slimy, tentacled monster with two huge, bloodshot eyes in a soft baggy face; Zuckuss and Dengar, two battle- scarred, mangy human types; IG-88, a battered, tarnished chrome war droid; and Boba Fett, a man in a weapon-covered armored space suit.
VADER: . there will be a substantial reward for the one who finds the Millennium Falcon. You are free to use any methods necessary, but I want them alive. No disintegrations.
BOBA FETT: As you wish. At that moment, Admiral Piett approaches Vader in a rush of excitement.
PIETT: Lord Vader! My lord, we have EXT. IMPERIAL STAR DESTROYER, AVENGER - ASTEROID BELT The Millennium Falcon speeds through deep space, closely followed by a firing Imperial Star Destroyer. A large asteroid about the same size as the Falcon tumbles rapidly toward the starship. The tiny Falcon banks to avoid the giant asteroid as smaller rocks pelt its surface. Then the small craft roars under the asteroid which explodes harmlessly on the hull of the vast Star Destroyer.
THREEPIO: Oh, thank goodness we're coming out of the asteroid field. Chewie barks excitedly as the rain of asteroids begins to subside. A bolt from the Star Destroyer sets up a fiery explosion on the back side of the Falcon, causing it to lurch to one side.
HAN: Let's get out of here. Ready for light-speed? One. two. three! Han pulls back on the hyperspace throttle and - nothing happens. Flak bursts continue to rock the ship.
HAN: ( frantic ) It's not fair! Chewie is very angry and starts to growl and bark at his friend and captain. Again, Han desperately pulls back on the throttle.
HAN: The transfer circuits are working. It's not my fault! Chewie puts his head in his hands, whining.
LEIA: ( almost expecting No light-speed?
HAN: It's not my fault.
THREEPIO: Sir, we just lost the main rear deflector shield. One more direct hit on the back quarter and we're done for. Han pauses for a moment, makes a decision, and pulls back on a lever.
HAN: Turn her around. Chewie barks in puzzlement.
HAN: I said turn her around! I'm going to put all power in the front shield.
LEIA: You're going to attack them?!
THREEPIO: Sir, the odds of surviving a direct assault on an Imperial Star Destroyer.
LEIA: Shut up!
NEEDA: They're moving to attack position! Shields up! Needa and his men duck as the Falcon nears the bridge window. At the last minute, the Falcon veers off and out of sight. All is quiet.
NEEDA: Track them. They may come around for another pass.
TRACKING OFFICER: Captain Needa, the ship no longer appears on our scopes.
NEEDA: They can't have disappeared. No ship that small has a cloaking Well, there's no trace of them, Captain, Lord Vader demands an update on the pursuit.
TRACKING OFFICER: Well, there's no trace of them, Captain, Lord Vader demands an update on the pursuit.
COMMUNICATIONS OFFICER: Captain, Lord Vader demands an update on the pursuit.
NEEDA: ( drawing a breath ) Get a shuttle ready. I shall assume full responsibility for losing them, and apologize to Lord Vader. Meanwhile, continue to scan the area.
COMMUNICATIONS OFFICER: Yes, Captain Needa.
YODA: Use the Force. Yes. Yoda taps Luke's leg. Quickly, Luke lifts one hand from the ground. His body wavers, but he maintains his balance. Artoo, standing nearby, is whistling and beeping frantically.
YODA: Now. the stone. Feel it. Luke concentrates on trying to lift the top rock. It rises a few feet, shaking under the strain. But, distracted by Artoo's frantic beeping, Luke loses his balance and finally collapses. Yoda jumps clear.
YODA: Annoyed at the disturbance, Luke looks over at Artoo, who is rocking urgently back and forth in front of him. Artoo waddles closer to Luke, chirping wildly, then scoots over the edge of the swamp. Catching on, Luke rushes to the water's edge. The X-wing fighter has sunk, and only the tip of its nose shows above the lake's surface.
LUKE: Oh, no. We'll never get it out Yoda stamps his foot in irritation.
YODA: So certain are you. Always with you it cannot be done. Hear you nothing that I say? Luke looks uncertainly out at the ship.
LUKE: Master, moving stones around is one thing. This is totally No! No different! Only different in your mind. You must unlearn what you have learned.
YODA: No! No different! Only different in your mind. You must unlearn what you have learned.
LUKE: ( focusing, quietly ) All right, I'll give it a try.
YODA: No! Try not. Do. Or do not. There is no try. Luke closes his eyes and concentrates on thinking the ship out. Slowly, the X-wing's nose begins to rise above the water. It hovers for a moment and then slides back, disappearing once again.
LUKE: ( panting heavily ) I can't. It's too big.
YODA: Size matters not. Look at me. Judge me by my size, do you? Hm? Mmmm. Luke shakes his head.
YODA: And well you should not. For my ally in the Force. And a powerful ally it is. Life creates it, makes it grow. Its energy surrounds us and binds us. Luminous beings are we. . not this crude matter. You must feel the Force around you. Here, between you. me. the tree. the rock. everywhere! Yes, even between this land and that ship!
LUKE: ( discouraged ) You want the impossible. Quietly Yoda turns toward the X-wing fighter. With his eyes closed and his head bowed, he raises his arm and points at the ship. Soon, the fighter rises above the water and moves forward as Artoo beeps in terror and scoots away. The entire X-wing moves majestically, surely, toward the shore. Yoda stands on a tree root and guides the fighter carefully down toward the Luke stares in astonishment as the fighter settles down onto the shore. He walks toward Yoda.
LUKE: I don't. I don't believe it.
YODA: That is why you fail. Luke shakes his head, bewildered.
VADER: Apology accepted, Captain Needa. Clutching desperately at his throat, Captain Needa slumps down, then falls over on his back, at the feet of Darth Vader. Two stormtroopers pick up the lifeless body and carry it quickly away as Admiral Piett and two of his captains hurry up to the Dark Lord.
PIETT: Lord Vader, our ships have completed their scan of the area and found nothing. If the Millennium Falcon went into light- speed, it'll be on the other side of the galaxy by now.
VADER: Alert all commands. Calculate every possible destination along their last know trajectory.
PIETT: Yes, my lord. We'll find them.
VADER: Don't fail me again, Admiral. Vader exits as the admiral turns to an aide, a little more uneasy than when he arrived.
PIETT: Alert all commands. Deploy the fleet.
THREEPIO: Captain Solo, this time you have gone too far. No, I will not be quiet, Chewbacca. Why doesn't anyone listen to me?
HAN: ( to Chewie ) The fleet is beginning to break up. Go back and stand by the manual release for the landing claw. Chewie barks, struggles from his seat, and climbs out of the cabin.
THREEPIO: I really don't see how that is going to help. Surrender is a perfectly acceptable alternative in extreme circumstances. The Empire may be gracious enough. Leia reaches over and shuts off Threepio, mid-sentence.
HAN: Thank you.
LEIA: What did you have in mind for your next move?
HAN: Well, if they follow standard Imperial procedure, they'll dump their garbage before they go to light-speed, then we just float With the rest of the garbage. Then what?
LEIA: With the rest of the garbage. Then what?
HAN: Then we've got to find a safe port somewhere around here. Got any ideas?
LEIA: No. Where are we?
HAN: The Anoat system.
LEIA: Anoat system. There's not much No. Well, wait. This is interesting. Lando. He points to a computer mapscreen on the control panel. Leia slips out of her chair and moves next to the handsome pilot. Small light points representing several systems flash by on the computer screen.
HAN: No. Well, wait. This is interesting. Lando. He points to a computer mapscreen on the control panel. Leia slips out of her chair and moves next to the handsome pilot. Small light points representing several systems flash by on the computer screen.
LEIA: Lando system?
HAN: Lando's not a system, he's a man. Lando Calrissian. He's a card player, gambler, scoundrel. You'd like him.
LEIA: Bespin. It's pretty far, but I think we can make it.
HAN: Bespin. It's pretty far, but I think we can make it.
LEIA: ( reading from the A mining colony?
HAN: Yeah, a Tibanna gas mine. Lando conned somebody out of it. We go back a long way, Lando and me.
LEIA: Can you trust him?
HAN: No. But he has no love for the Empire, I can tell you that. Chewie barks over the intercom. Han quickly changes his readouts and stretches to look out the cockpit window.
HAN: ( into intercom ) Here we go, Chewie. Stand by. Han leans back in his chair and gives Leia an invisible smile. She thinks for a moment, shakes her head; a grin creeps across her face and she gives him a quick kiss.
LEIA: You do have your moments. Not many, but you have them.
YODA: Concentrate. feel the Force flow. Yes. Good. Calm, yes. Through the Force, things you will see. Other places. The future. the past. Old friends long gone. Luke suddenly becomes distressed.
LUKE: Han! Leia! The two packing boxes and Artoo fall to the ground with a crash, then Luke himself tumbles over.
YODA: ( shaking his head ) Hmm. Control, control. You must learn control.
LUKE: I saw. I saw a city in the Mmm. Friends you have there.
YODA: Mmm. Friends you have there.
LUKE: They were in pain.
YODA: Future? Will they die? Yoda closes his eyes and lowers his head.
LUKE: Future? Will they die? Yoda closes his eyes and lowers his head.
YODA: Difficult to see. Always in motion is the future.
LUKE: I've got to go to them.
YODA: Decide you must how to serve them best. If you leave now, help them you could. But you would destroy all for which they have fought and suffered. Luke is stopped cold by Yoda's words. Gloom shrouds him as he nods his head sadly.
HAN: ( into transmitter ) No, I don't have a landing permit. I'm trying to reach Lando Calrissian. More flak bursts outside the cockpit window and rattles the ship's interior. Leia looks worried.
HAN: ( into transmitter ) Whoa! Wait a minute! Let me You will not deviate from your present course.
INTERCOM VOICE: You will not deviate from your present course.
THREEPIO: Rather touchy, aren't they?
LEIA: I thought you knew this person. Chewie barks and growls at his boss.
HAN: ( to Chewie ) Well, that was a long time ago. I'm sure he's forgotten about Permission granted to land on Platform Three-two-seven.
INTERCOM VOICE: Permission granted to land on Platform Three-two-seven.
HAN: ( into transmitter ) Thank you. Angry, Han snaps off the intercom. Chewie looks at him and grunts. Han turns to the worried princess and her droid.
HAN: There's nothing to worry about. We go way back, Lando and me. Leia doesn't look convinced.
LEIA: Who's worried?
THREEPIO: Oh. No one to meet us.
LEIA: I don't like this.
HAN: Well, what would you like?
THREEPIO: Well, they did let us land.
HAN: Look, don't worry. Everything's going to be fine. Trust me.
HAN: See? My friend. Keep your eyes open, okay? Chewie growls as Han walks down the ramp. Lando and his men head across the bridge to meet the space pirate.
LANDO: Why, you slimy, double-crossing, no-good swindler! You've got a lot of guts coming here, after what you pulled. Han points to himself innocently, mouthing, "Me?" Lando moves threateningly toward Han. Suddenly, he throws his arms around his startled, long-lost friend and embraces him.
LANDO: ( laughs ) How you doing, you old pirate? So good to see you! I never thought I'd catch up with you again. Where you been? The two old friends embrace, laughing and chuckling.
THREEPIO: ( wary ) Yes. very friendly.
LEIA: ( wary ) Yes. very friendly.
LANDO: What are you doing here?
HAN: ( gestures toward Ahh. repairs. I thought you could help me out.
LANDO: ( in mock panic ) What have you done to my ship?
HAN: Your ship? Hey, remember, you lost her to me fair and square. Chewie growls a reserved greeting. Lando suddenly notices the princess and smiles.
LANDO: Hello. What have we here? Welcome. I'm Lando Calrissian. I'm the administrator of this facility. And who might you be?
LEIA: Welcome, Leia. Lando bows before Leia and kisses her hand.
LANDO: Welcome, Leia. Lando bows before Leia and kisses her hand.
HAN: All right, all right, you old Han takes Leia by the hand and steers her away from Lando.
THREEPIO: Hello, sir. I am See-Threepio, human-cyborg relations. My facilities are at your. Before Threepio can finish his self-introduction, Lando has turned to follow Han and Leia, who are walking toward the city.
THREEPIO: Well, really! Lando, his aide, Lobot, and Han lead the way across the bridge, followed by Threepio, Chewie and Leia.
LANDO: What's wrong with the Falcon?
HAN: I'll get my people to work on it.
LANDO: I'll get my people to work on it.
HAN: Lando turns to Leia.
LANDO: You know, that ship saved my life quite a few times. She's the fastest hunk of junk in the galaxy.
HAN: How's the gas mine? Is it paying off for you?
LANDO: Oh, not as well as I'd like. We're a small outpost and not very self-sufficient. And I've had supply problems of every kind. I've had labor difficulties. What's so funny?
HAN: You. Listen to you - you sound like a businessman, a responsible leader. Who'd have thought that, Lando is reflective. He looks at Han a moment.
LANDO: You know, seeing you sure brings back a few things.
HAN: ( shakes his head ) Yeah. I'm responsible these days. It's the price you pay for being Han and Lando laugh together, and the group moves on through the The lagging Threepio passes a Threepio-type silver droid who is coming out of a door.
LANDO: ( shakes his head ) Yeah. I'm responsible these days. It's the price you pay for being Han and Lando laugh together, and the group moves on through the The lagging Threepio passes a Threepio-type silver droid who is coming out of a door.
THREEPIO: Oh! Nice to see a familiar face.
SECOND THREEPIO: ( mumbles ) E chu ta!
THREEPIO: How rude! Threepio stops, watching the silver droid move away. Then he hears the muffled beeping and whistling of an R2 unit coming from within the INT. CLOUD CITY - ANTEROOM Curious, Threepio enters the room.
THREEPIO: That sounds like an R2 unit in there. I wonder if. Threepio walks through the doorway to the main room. He looks in.
THREEPIO: Hello? How interesting. Oh, my.
MAN'S VOICE: ( from within ) Who are you?
THREEPIO: Oh, I'm terribly sorry. I. I didn't mean to intrude. No, no, please don't get up. No! A laser bolt to Threepio's chest sends him flying in twenty directions. Smoldering mechanical arms and legs bounce off the walls as the door whooshes closed behind him.
YODA: Luke! You must complete the I can't keep the vision out of my head. They're my friends. I've got to help them.
LUKE: I can't keep the vision out of my head. They're my friends. I've got to help them.
YODA: You must not go!
LUKE: But Han and Leia will die if I You don't know that. Luke looks toward the voice in amazement. Ben has materialized as a real, slightly shimmering image near Yoda. The power of his presence stops Luke.
BEN'S VOICE: You don't know that. Luke looks toward the voice in amazement. Ben has materialized as a real, slightly shimmering image near Yoda. The power of his presence stops Luke.
BEN: Even Yoda cannot see their fate.
LUKE: But I can help them! I feel the Force!
BEN: But you cannot control it. This is a dangerous time for you, when you will be tempted by the dark side of the Force.
YODA: Yes, yes. To Obi-Wan you listen. The cave. Remember your failure at the cave!
LUKE: But I've learned so much since then. Master Yoda, I promise to return and finish what I've begun. You have my word.
BEN: It is you and your abilities the Emperor wants. that is why your friends are made to suffer.
LUKE: And that is why I have to go.
BEN: Luke, I don't want to lose you to the Emperor the way I lost Vader.
LUKE: You won't.
YODA: Stopped they must be. On this all depends. Only a fully trained Jedi Knight with the Force as his ally will conquer Vader and his Emperor. If you end your training now, if you choose the quick and easy path, as Vader did, you will become an agent of evil.
BEN: And sacrifice Han and Leia?
LUKE: And sacrifice Han and Leia?
YODA: If you honor what they fight for . yes! Luke is in great anguish. He struggles with the dilemma, a battle raging in his mind.
BEN: If you choose to face Vader, you will do it alone. I cannot I understand. Artoo, fire up the converters. Artoo whistles a happy reply.
LUKE: I understand. Artoo, fire up the converters. Artoo whistles a happy reply.
BEN: Luke, don't give in to hate - that leads to the dark side. Luke nods and climbs into his ship.
YODA: Strong is Vader. Mind what you have learned. Save you it can.
LUKE: I will. And I'll return. I promise. Artoo closes the cockpit. Ben and Yoda stand watching as the roar of the engines and the wind engulf them.
YODA: ( sighs ) Told you, I did. Reckless is he. Now matters are worse.
BEN: That boy is our last hope.
YODA: ( looks up ) No. There is another.
HAN: The ship is almost finished. Two or Three more things and we're in great shape.
LEIA: The sooner the better. Something's wrong here. No one has seen or knows anything about Threepio. He's been gone too long to have gotten lost. Han takes Leia by the shoulders and gently kisses her forehead.
HAN: Relax. I'll talk to Lando and see what I can find out.
LEIA: I don't trust Lando.
HAN: Well, I don't trust him, either. But he is my friend. Besides, we'll soon be gone.
LEIA: And then you're as good as gone, aren't you? Not speaking, Han considers her words and gazes at her troubled face.
LEIA: What happened? Chewie sets the case on a table, grunting and groaning an explanation.
HAN: Where? Found him in a junk pile?
LEIA: Oh, what a mess. Chewie, do you think you can repair him? The giant Wookiee studies the array of robot parts. He looks at the princess and shrugs sadly.
HAN: Lando's got people who can fix No, thanks. There is a buzz and the door slides open, revealing Lando.
LEIA: No, thanks. There is a buzz and the door slides open, revealing Lando.
LANDO: I'm sorry. Am I interrupting Not really.
LEIA: Not really.
LANDO: You look absolutely beautiful. You truly belong here with us among the clouds.
LEIA: ( coolly ) Thank you.
LANDO: Will you join me for a little Han looks at Lando suspiciously, but Chewie barks at the mention of food and licks his lips.
LANDO: Everyone's invited, of course. Leia takes Lando's proffered arm, and the group turns to go. Lando spots Threepio's remains.
LANDO: Having trouble with you droid? Han and Leia exchange a quick glance.
HAN: No. No problem. Why? Han and Leia move arm-in-arm through the door, followed by Lando and Chewie. The door slides closed behind them.
LANDO: So you see, since we're a small operation, we don't fall into the. uh. jurisdiction of the So you're part of the mining guild then?
LEIA: So you're part of the mining guild then?
LANDO: No, not actually. Our operation is small enough not to be noticed. which is advantageous for everybody since our customers are anxious to avoid attracting attention to The group walks into another corridor and heads for a huge doorway at the far end.
HAN: Aren't you afraid the Empire's going to find out about this little operation and shut you down?
LANDO: That's always been a danger looming like a shadow over everything we've built here. But things have developed that will insure security. I've just made a deal that will keep the Empire out of here forever.
VADER: We would be honored if you would join us. Han gives Lando a mean look.
LANDO: I had no choice. They arrived right before you did. I'm sorry.
HAN: I'm sorry, too.
LUKE: ( into comlink ) No, Threepio's with them. Artoo whistles another worried inquiry.
LUKE: ( into comlink ) Just hang on. We're almost there.
THREEPIO: Mmmm. Oh, my. Uh, I, uh - Take this off! I, uh, don't mean to intrude here. I, don't, no, no, no. Please don't get up. No! Chewie looks at Threepio in bewilderment, then scratches his furry head. He gets an idea and adjusts some connections, whereupon Threepio immediately begins speaking normally.
THREEPIO: Stormtroopers? Here? We're in danger. I must tell the others. Oh, no! I've been shot!
LANDO: Lord Vader.
VADER: ( to Fett ) You may take Captain Solo to Jabba the Hut after I have Han's screams filter through the torture room door.
BOBA FETT: He's no good to me dead.
VADER: He will not be permanently damaged.
LANDO: Lord Vader, what about Leia and the Wookiee?
VADER: They must never again leave this That was never a condition of our agreement, nor was giving Han to this bounty hunter!
LANDO: That was never a condition of our agreement, nor was giving Han to this bounty hunter!
VADER: Perhaps you think you're being treated unfairly.
LANDO: Good. It would be unfortunate if I had to leave a garrison here. Vader turns and sweeps into the elevator with Boba Fett. Lando walks swiftly down another corridor, muttering to himself.
VADER: Good. It would be unfortunate if I had to leave a garrison here. Vader turns and sweeps into the elevator with Boba Fett. Lando walks swiftly down another corridor, muttering to himself.
LANDO: This deal's getting worse all the time.
THREEPIO: Oh, yes, that's very good. I like that. Oh! Something's not right because now I can't see. Wait. Wait! Oh, my! what have you done? I'm backwards, you stupid furball. Only an overgrown mophead like you would be stupid enough. Threepio is cut off in mid-sentence as Chewie angrily deactivates a circuit and the droid shuts down. The Wookiee smells something and sits up. The door to the chamber slides open and a ragged Han Solo is shoved into the room by two stormtroopers. Barking his concern, the huge Wookiee gives Han a big hug. Han is very pale, with dark circles under his eyes.
HAN: I feel terrible. Chewie helps Han to a platform and then turns as the door slides open revealing Leia. She, too, looks a little worse for wear. The troopers push her into the cell, and the door slides closed. She moves to Han, who is lying on the platform, and kneels next to him, gently stroking his head.
LEIA: Why are they doing this?
HAN: They never even asked me any The cell door slides open. Lando and two of his guards enter.
LEIA: Get out of here, Lando!
HAN: Get out of here, Lando!
LANDO: Shut up and listen! Vader has agreed to turn Leia and Chewie over to me.
HAN: Over to you?
LANDO: They'll have to stay here, but at least they'll be safe.
LEIA: What about Han?
LANDO: Vader's giving him to the bounty Vader wants us all dead.
LEIA: Vader wants us all dead.
LANDO: He doesn't want you at all. He's after somebody called Skywalker.
HAN: Lord Vader has set a trap for him. Leia's mind is racing.
LANDO: Lord Vader has set a trap for him. Leia's mind is racing.
LEIA: And we're the bait.
LANDO: Well, he's on his way. Han's rage peaks.
HAN: Perfect. You fixed us all pretty good, didn't you? My friend! Han hauls off and punches Lando. The two friends are instantly engaged in a frantic close-quarters fight. The guards hit Han with their rifle butts and he flies across the room. Chewie growls and starts for the guards. They point their laser weapons at the giant Wookiee, but Lando stops them.
LANDO: Stop! I've done all I can. I'm sorry I couldn't do better, but I have my own problems.
HAN: Yeah, you're a real hero. Lando and the guards leave. Han wipes the blood from his chin as Leia and Chewie help him up.
LEIA: ( dabs at his wound ) You certainly have a way with INT. CLOUD CITY - CARBON-FREEZING CHAMBER Four armor-suited stormtroopers stand at the ready in the large chamber, which is filled with pipes and chemical tanks. In the middle of the room is a round pit housing a hydraulic platform. Darth Vader and Lando stand near the platform.
VADER: This facility is crude, but it should be adequate to freeze Skywalker for his journey to the An Imperial soldier appears.
IMPERIAL SOLDIER: Lord Vader, ship approaching. X-wing class.
VADER: Good. Monitor Skywalker and allow him to land. The soldier bows and leaves the chamber.
LANDO: Lord Vader, we only use this facility for carbon freezing. If you put him in there, it might kill him.
VADER: I do not want the Emperor's prize damaged. We will test it. on Captain Solo. Lando's face registers dismay.
THREEPIO: If only you had attached my legs, I wouldn't be in this ridiculous position. Now, remember, Chewbacca, you have a responsibility to me, so don't do anything foolish.
HAN: ( to Lando ) What's going on. buddy?
LANDO: You're being put into carbon freeze. Boba Fett moves away from the group to Darth Vader.
BOBA FETT: What if he doesn't survive? He's worth a lot to me.
VADER: The Empire will compensate you if he dies. Put him in! Realizing what is about to happen, Chewie lets out a wild howl and attacks the stormtroopers surrounding Han. Within seconds, other Imperial reinforcements join the scuffle, clubbing the giant Wookiee with their laser weapons. From the instant of Chewie's first move, Threepio begins to scream in panic while he tries to protect himself with his one arm.
THREEPIO: Oh, no! No, no, no! Stop, Chewbacca, stop.! The stormtroopers are about to bash Chewie in the face.
HAN: Stop, Chewie, stop! Do you hear me? Stop!
THREEPIO: Yes, stop, please! I'm not ready to die. Han breaks away from his captors. Vader nods to the guards to let him go and the pirate breaks up the fight.
HAN: Chewie! Chewie, this won't help me. Hey! Han gives the Wookiee a stern look.
HAN: Save your strength. There'll be another time. The princess - you have to take care of her. You hear me? Han winks at the Wookiee, who wails a doleful farewell. In a flash the guards have slipped binders on Chewbacca, who is too distraught to protest. Han turns to Princess Leia. They look sorrowfully at one another, then Han moves toward her and gives her a final, passionate kiss.
LEIA: I love you!
HAN: I know. Tears roll down Leia's face as she watches the dashing pirate walk to the hydraulic platform. Han looks one final time at his friends - and then, suddenly, the platform drops. Chewie howls. Leia turns away in Lando winces in sorrow; it makes a life-changing impression on him. Instantly, fiery liquid begins to pour down in a shower of sparks and fluid as great as any steel furnace. Holding Leia, Chewie half-turns away from the sight, giving Threepio a view of the procedure.
THREEPIO: What. what's going on? Turn round, Chewbacca, I can't see. Oh. they've encased him in carbonite. He should be quite well-protected - if he survives the freezing process, that is. Chewie is in no mood for technical discussion; he gives the droid an angry glance and bark. A huge mechanical tong lifts the steaming metal-encased space pirate out of the vat and stands him on the platform. Some Ugnaughts rush over and push the block over onto the platform. They slide the coffinlike structure to the block and lift the metal block, placing it inside. They then attach an electronic box onto the structure and step away. Lando kneels and adjusts some knobs, measuring the heat. He shakes his head in relief.
VADER: Well, Calrissian, did he survive?
LANDO: Yes, he's alive. And in perfect Vader turns to Boba Fett.
VADER: He's all yours bounty hunter. Reset the chamber for Skywalker.
IMPERIAL OFFICER: Skywalker has just landed, my Good. See to it that he finds his way here. Calrissian, take the princess and the Wookiee to my ship.
VADER: Good. See to it that he finds his way here. Calrissian, take the princess and the Wookiee to my ship.
LANDO: You said they'd be left in the city under my supervision.
VADER: I am altering the deal. Pray I don't alter it any further. Lando's hand instinctively goes to his throat as he turns to Leia, Chewie, and Threepio.
LEIA: Luke! Luke, don't - it's a trap! It's a trap! Before she can finish, she is pulled through a doorway and disappears from sight. Luke races after the group, leaving little Artoo trailing INT. CLOUD CITY - ANTEROOM Luke runs into an anteroom and stops to get his bearings. Leia and the others are nowhere to be seen. Behind Luke, Artoo scoots down the corridor toward the anteroom when suddenly a giant metal door comes slamming down, cutting off Luke's exit. Several more doors clang shut, echoing through the chamber.
VADER: The Force is with you, young Skywalker. But you are not a Jedi yet. Luke ignites his sword in answer. In an instant, Vader's own sword is lit. Luke lunges, but Vader repels the blow. Again Luke attacks, and the swords of the two combatants clash in battle.
LANDO: Well done. Hold them in the security tower - and keep it quiet. Move. As Lando's guards quickly march the stormtroopers away, Lando begins to undo Chewie's binding.
LEIA: What do you think you're doing?
LANDO: We're getting out of here.
THREEPIO: I knew all along it had to be a Chewie turns on Lando and starts to choke him.
LEIA: Do you think that after what you did to Han we're going to trust Lando tries to free himself from Chewie.
LANDO: ( choking ) I had no choice. Chewie barks ferociously.
THREEPIO: ( to Chewie ) What are you doing? Trust him, trust him!
LEIA: Oh, so we understand, don't we, Chewie? He had no choice.
LANDO: I'm just trying to help.
LEIA: We don't need any of your help.
LANDO: ( choking ) It sounds like Han.
LEIA: It sounds like Han.
THREEPIO: It sounds like Han.
LANDO: There's still a chance to save Han. I mean, at the East Chewie finally releases Lando, who fights to get his breath back.
LEIA: Chewie finally releases Lando, who fights to get his breath back.
THREEPIO: ( to Lando ) I'm terribly sorry about all this. After all, he's only a Wookiee.
BOBA FETT: Put Captain Solo in the cargo And with that, the door slams shut.
THREEPIO: Artoo! Artoo! Where have you Chewie turns around to see the stubby droid, causing Threepio to be spun out of sight of his friend.
THREEPIO: Turn around, you wooly.! Hurry, hurry! We're trying to save Han from the bounty hunter! Whistling frantically to Threepio, Artoo scoots along with the racing Well, at least your still in one piece! Look what happened to EXT. EAST LANDING PLATFORM - SIDE BAY An elevator door slides open and Lando, Leia, and Chewbacca race for a large bay overlooking the East Landing Platform. Just as they arrive, Boba Fett's ship takes off against a cloudy sunset In wild anguish, Chewie howls and starts firing at the ship.
THREEPIO: Well, at least your still in one piece! Look what happened to EXT. EAST LANDING PLATFORM - SIDE BAY An elevator door slides open and Lando, Leia, and Chewbacca race for a large bay overlooking the East Landing Platform. Just as they arrive, Boba Fett's ship takes off against a cloudy sunset In wild anguish, Chewie howls and starts firing at the ship.
THREEPIO: Oh, no! Chewie, they're behind A laser bolt explodes near the princess. Everyone turns to see what Threepio has already spotted coming from the other direction; a squad of stormtroopers running toward them. Artoo peeks out from the Leia and Chewbacca start firing at the troopers as Lando makes a break for the elevator. Laser bolts continue to explode around the princess and the Wookiee, but they refuse to budge. Lando sticks his head out of the elevator and motions for the pair to run, but they barely notice. They seem possessed, transported, as all the frustration of captivity and anger of loss pour through their death-dealing weapons. But after a few moments, they begin to move through the rain of laser fire toward the elevator. Once they are inside, the door slams shut and the stormtroopers race forward.
VADER: You have learned much, young one.
LUKE: You'll find I'm full of surprises. Vader makes two quick moves, hooking Luke's sword out of his hand and sending it flying. Another lightning move at Luke's feet forces the youth to jump back to protect himself. Losing his balance, Luke rolls down the stairs to the circular carbon-freezing platform. There he sprawls on the floor, surprised and shaken. Just in time he looks up to see Vader, like a giant black bird, flying right at him. Luke rolls away as Vader lands. Crouching, Luke keeps his gaze steadily on his Your destiny lies with me, Skywalker. Obi-Wan knew this to be true.
VADER: Your destiny lies with me, Skywalker. Obi-Wan knew this to be true.
LUKE: Behind Luke the hydraulic elevator cover has opened noiselessly. All the while, Luke slowly, cautiously moves back, away from the Dark Lord. Suddenly, Vader attacks so forcefully that Luke loses his balance and falls back into the opening. There is a rumble, and in an instant freezing steam rises to obscure Vader's vision. Vader turns aside and deactivates his sword.
VADER: All to easy. Perhaps you are not as strong as the Emperor thought. Through the steam behind Vader something blurs upward. Liquid metal begins to pour into the pit. Vader turns around - and then looks up. He sees Luke, who has leaped fifteen feet straight up and who now hangs from some hoses on the carbonite outlet.
VADER: Impressive. most impressive. Luke jumps down to the platform where he is separated from Vader by the steaming carbonite pit. He raises his hand. His sword, which had fallen on another part of the platform, swiftly jumps into his outstretched hand and is instantly ignited. Vader immediately lights his sword as well.
VADER: Obi-Wan has taught you well. You have controlled your fear. now release your anger. Luke is more cautious, controlling his anger. He begins to retreat as Vader goads him on. As Luke takes a defensive position, he realizes he has been foolhardy. A quick sword exchange and Luke forces Vader back. Another exchange and Vader retreats. Luke presses forward.
VADER: Only your hatred can destroy me. Breathing hard, Luke jumps in the air, turning a somersault over Vader. He lands on the floor and slashes at Vader as the room continues to fill up with steam. Vader retreats before Luke's skillful sword. Vader blocks the sword, but looses his balance and falls into the outer rim of pipes. The energy Luke has used to stop Vader has brought him to the point of collapse. Luke moves to the edge and looks down, but sees no sign of Vader. He then deactivates his sword, hooks it on his belt, and lowers himself into the pit.
LANDO: The security codes has been changed!
THREEPIO: Artoo, you can tell the computer to override the security system. Threepio points to a computer socket on the control panel. Artoo beeps and scoots toward it. Lando meanwhile has connected up to the panel's Attention! This is Lando Calrissian. The Empire has takes control of the city. I advise everyone to leave before more Imperial troops arrive. Artoo takes off a computer cover and sticks his computer arm into the socket. Suddenly, a short beep turns into a wild scream. Artoo's circuits light up, his head spins wildly, and smoke begins to seep out underneath him. Quickly, Chewie pulls him away.
LANDO: Attention! This is Lando Calrissian. The Empire has takes control of the city. I advise everyone to leave before more Imperial troops arrive. Artoo takes off a computer cover and sticks his computer arm into the socket. Suddenly, a short beep turns into a wild scream. Artoo's circuits light up, his head spins wildly, and smoke begins to seep out underneath him. Quickly, Chewie pulls him away.
LANDO: This way. Lando, Leia, Artoo, and Chewie flee down the corridor. As he scoots along with them, Artoo sends some angry beeps Threepio's way.
THREEPIO: Don't blame me. I'm an interpreter. I'm not supposed to know a power socket from a computer terminal.
THREEPIO: What are you talking about? We're not interested in the hyperdrive on the Millennium Falcon. It's fixed! Just open the door, you stupid lump. Chewie, Leia, and Lando retreat along the corridor. A triumphant beep from Artoo - and the door snaps open.
THREEPIO: ( to Artoo ) I never doubted you for a second. Artoo lays a cloud fog, obscuring everything, as the group dashes EXT. LANDING PLATFORM - CLOUD CITY - DUSK They race for the Millennium Falcon as a battalion of stormtroopers reaches the main door. Lando and Leia hold off the troops as the droids get on board with Chewie. As Chewie bounds to the ship the Threepio on his back, Threepio hits his head on the top of the ramp.
THREEPIO: Ouch! Oh! Ah! That hurt. Bend down, you thoughtless. Ow! Chewie starts up the ship. The giant engines begin to whine as Lando and Leia race up the ramp under a hail of laser fire.
LANDO: Leia! Go!
THREEPIO: I thought that hairy beast would be the end of me. Of course, I've looked better. Artoo beeps understandingly.
VADER: You are beaten. It is useless to resist. Don't let yourself be destroyed as Obi-Wan did. Luke answers by rolling sideways and thrusting his sword at Vader so viciously that he nicks Vader on the shoulder. The black armor sparks and smokes and Vader seems to be hurt, but immediately recovers. Luke backs off along the narrow end of the gantry as Vader comes at him, slashing at the young Jedi with his sword. Luke makes a quick move around the instrument complex attached to the end of the gantry. Vader's sword comes slashing down, cutting the complex loose; it begins to fall, then is caught by the rising wind and blown upward. Luke glances at the instrument complex floating away. At that instant, Vader's sword comes down across Luke's right forearm, cutting off his hand and sending his sword flying. In great pain, Luke squeezes his forearm under his left armpit and moves back along the gantry to its extreme end. Vader follows. The wind subsides. Luke holds on. There is nowhere else to There is no escape. Don't make me destroy you. You do not yet realize your importance. You have only begun to discover your power. Join me and I will complete your training. With our combined strength, we can end this destructive conflict and bring order to the I'll never join you!
VADER: There is no escape. Don't make me destroy you. You do not yet realize your importance. You have only begun to discover your power. Join me and I will complete your training. With our combined strength, we can end this destructive conflict and bring order to the I'll never join you!
LUKE: I'll never join you!
VADER: If you only knew the power of the dark side. Obi-Wan never told you what happened to your father.
LUKE: He told me enough! It was you who killed him.
VADER: No. I am your father. Shocked, Luke looks at Vader in utter disbelief.
LUKE: No. No. That's not true! That's impossible!
VADER: Search your feelings. You know it to be true.
LUKE: No! No! No!
VADER: Luke. You can destroy the Emperor. He has foreseen this. It is your destiny. Join me, and together we can rule the galaxy as father and son. Come with me. It is the only way. Vader puts away his sword and holds his hand out to Luke. A calm comes over Luke, and he makes a decision. In the next instant he steps off the gantry platform into space. The Dark Lord looks over the platform and sees Luke falling far below. The wind begins to blow at Vader's cape and the torrent finally forces him back, away from the edge. The wind soon fades and the wounded Jedi begins to drop fast, unable to grab onto anything to break his fall.
LUKE: Ben. Ben, please! Luke tries to pull himself up on the weather vane but slips back down. He hooks one of his legs around the fragile instruments. All the while, a powerful current of air rushes out at him from the exhaust Ben. Leia! There is an ominous cracking sound from the base of the weather vane and a piece breaks off, falling into the clouds far below.
LUKE: Ben. Leia! There is an ominous cracking sound from the base of the weather vane and a piece breaks off, falling into the clouds far below.
LUKE: Hear me! Leia!
LEIA: Luke. We've got to go back. Chewie growls in surprise.
LANDO: I know where Luke is.
LEIA: I know where Luke is.
LANDO: But what about those fighter? Chewie barks in agreement with Lando.
LEIA: Chewie, just do it.
LANDO: But what about Vader? Chewie turns on Lando, the newcomer, with an ominous growl.
LANDO: All right, all right, all right.
VADER: Bring my shuttle.
LANDO: ( pointing out the Look, someone's up there.
LEIA: It's Luke. Chewie, slow down. Slow down and we'll get under him. Lando, open the top hatch. Lando rushes out of the cockpit.
LEIA: Okay. Easy, Chewie. The Falcon closes in on Luke.
LEIA: ( into intercom ) ( over intercom ) Okay, let's go.
LANDO: ( over intercom ) Okay, let's go.
LUKE: Oh, Leia.
LANDO: All right, Chewie. Let's go. Leia helps Luke from the cockpit as another huge blast rocks the ship.
LEIA: I'll be back. She kisses him, then leaves the quarters.
LEIA: Star Destroyer.
LANDO: All right, Chewie. Ready for If your people fixed the Another explosion rocks the ship. Leia notices as a green light on the panel next to her flashes on.
LEIA: If your people fixed the Another explosion rocks the ship. Leia notices as a green light on the panel next to her flashes on.
LEIA: All the coordinates are set. It's now or never. Chewie barks in agreement.
LANDO: Punch it! The Wookiee shrugs and pulls back on the light-speed throttle. The sound of the ion engine changes.it is winding up. Faces are tense, expectant. But nothing happens, and the engine goes off. Chewie lets out a frustrated howl. The flak still violently rocks the ship.
LANDO: They told me they fixed it. I trusted them to fix it. It's not my fault! Chewie gets up from his chair and starts out of the cockpit. He gives Lando and angry shove as he storms past him.
PIETT: They'll be in range of our tractor beam in moments, my lord.
VADER: Did your men deactivate the hyperdrive on the Millennium Yes, my lord.
PIETT: Yes, my lord.
VADER: Good. Prepare the boarding party and set your weapons for stun.
PIETT: Yes, my lord.
THREEPIO: Noisy brute. Why don't we just go into light-speed? Artoo beeps in response.
THREEPIO: We can't? How would you know the hyperdrive is deactivated? Artoo whistles knowingly.
THREEPIO: The city's central computer told you? Artoo-Detoo, you know better than to trust a strange computer. Ouch! Pay attention to what you're doing! Chewie is in the pit. He is trying to loosen something with an enormous wrench. Frustrated, he uses the wrench like a club and hits the panel.
VADER: INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - SLEEPING QUARTERS Luke realizes that Vader's ship is very near. He feels resigned to his fate. He senses that he is beaten, more emotionally than physically.
LUKE: INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE
VADER: Son, come with me.
LUKE: ( moaning ) Ben, why didn't you tell me?
LANDO: ( into intercom ) EXT. SPACE The Falcon races through space followed very closely by the TIE fighters and the huge Imperial Star Destroyer.
LUKE: It's Vader.
VADER: Luke. it is your destiny.
LUKE: Ben, why didn't you tell me?
PIETT: Alert all commands. Ready for the tractor beam.
THREEPIO: Artoo, come back at once! You haven't finished with me yet! You don't know how to fix the hyperdrive. Chewbacca can do it. I'm standing here in pieces, and you're having delusions of Artoo moves a circuit on a control panel. Suddenly, the control panel lights up.
THREEPIO: Oh, you did it!
LANDO: ( into comlink ) Luke, we're ready for takeoff.
LUKE: ( over comlink ) Good luck, Lando
LANDO: ( into comlink ) When we find Jabba the Hut and that bounty hunter, we'll contact INT. STAR CRUISER - MEDICAL CENTER Luke speaking into the comlink as a medical droid works on his hand. Leia stands near him while Threepio and Artoo look out the window.
LUKE: ( into comlink ) I'll meet you at the rendezvous point on Tatooine.
LANDO: ( into comlink ) Princess, we'll find Han. I INT. STAR CRUISER - MEDICAL CENTER ( into comlink ) Chewie, I'll be waiting for your Chewie's wail comes over the comlink.
LUKE: ( into comlink ) Chewie, I'll be waiting for your Chewie's wail comes over the comlink.
LUKE: ( into comlink ) Take care, you two. May the Force be with you. Luke looks down at his hand. A metalized type of bandage has been wrapped around his wrist. The medical droid makes some adjustments in a tiny electronic unit, then pricks each one of Luke's fingers.
LUKE: Luke wriggles his fingers, makes a fist, and relaxes it. His hand is completely functional. He gets up and walks over to Leia. There is a new bond between them, a new understanding. Leia is thinking about Han; Luke is thinking about his uncertain and newly complicated future. Together they stand at the large window of the medical center looking out on the Rebel Star Cruiser and a dense, luminous galaxy swirling in space. Luke puts his arm around Leia. The droids stand next to them, and Threepio moves closer to Artoo putting his arm on him. The group watches as the Millennium Falcon moves into view, makes a turn, and zooms away into space.
DISSOLVE TO: EXT. GALAXY - SPACE END CREDITS FADE IN AND OUT OVER BACKGROUND Writers : George Lucas Lawrence Kasdan Leigh Brackett
THE END: Writers : George Lucas Lawrence Kasdan Leigh Brackett
