SAAVIK'S VOICE: Captain's log. Stardate 8130.3, Starship Enterprise on training mission to Gamma Hydra. Section 14, coordinates 22/87/4. Approaching Neutral Zone, all systems
SULU: Leaving Section Fourteen for Section Fifteen.
SAAVIK: Project parabolic course to avoid entering Neutral Zone.
SULU: Aye, Captain.
UHURA: ( suddenly ) Captain. I'm getting something on the distress channel. Minimal signal. But something.
SAAVIK: Can you amplify?
UHURA: I'm trying.
SULU: Course change projected.
UHURA: It's an emergency distress call!
SAAVIK: On speakers!
VOICE: ( filtered, breaking up ) Imperative! Imperative! This is the Kobayashi Maru nineteen periods out of Altair Six. We have struck a gravitic mine and have lost all power. Our hull ( breaks up, static ) . and many casualties.
UHURA: This is the Starship Enterprise. Your message is breaking up. Give your coordinates. Repeat
VOICE: Enterprise, our position is Gamma Hydra, Section Ten.
SAAVIK: In the neutral zone.
VOICE: Hull penetrated, life support systems failing. Can you assist us, Enterprise? Can you.
SAAVIK: Data on Kobayashi Maru! Tactical!
COMPUTER VOICE: Subject vessel is third class neutronic fuel carrier, crew of eighty-one, three hundred passengers.
SAAVIK: ( then ) Mr. Sulu, plot an intercept course.
SULU: May I remind the Captain that if a Starship enters the zone
SAAVIK: I'm aware of my responsibilities, . Now entering the Neutral Warning. We have entered the Neutral Zone. Warning.
SULU: ( with a nod ) . Now entering the Neutral Warning. We have entered the Neutral Zone. Warning.
COMPUTER VOICE: Warning. We have entered the Neutral Zone. Warning.
SULU: Estimating two minutes to intercept.
SAAVIK: Stand by transporter room, ready to beam survivors, aboard.
UHURA: Captain, I've lost their signal!
COMPUTER VOICE: Alert. Sensors indicate three Klingon Cruisers, bearing 316, mark 4, closing fast.
SAAVIK: On screen we see the approach of the Klingon vessels, they are dark and sinister.
SAAVIK: ( continuing ) Battle stations! Activate shields!
SULU: Shields activated!
SAAVIK: Inform the Klingons we are on a rescue mission.
UHURA: They're jamming all frequencies, Klingons on attack course and closing.
COMPUTER VOICE: Klingons on attack course and closing.
SAAVIK: We're over our heads. Mr. Sulu, get us out of here.
SULU: I'll try, Captain.
COMPUTER VOICE: Klingon cruisers approaching, bearing 090, mark 20.
SAAVIK: The image flops: more Klingons approach. They FIRE photon torpedoes.
SAAVIK: ( continuing ) Evasive action!
SAAVIK: ( continuing ) Engineering! damage report!
SCOTTY'S VOICE: ( INTERCOM ) Main energizer hit, Captain!
SAAVIK: Engage auxiliary power. Prepare to return fire!
A CADET: Shields collapsing, Captain!
SCOTTY'S VOICE: ( FILTERED ) Captain, we're losing auxiliary Fire all phasers.!
SAAVIK: Fire all phasers.!
SPOCK: No power to the weapons system,
SCOTTY'S VOICE: ( FILTERED ) Captain, it's no use. We're dead in space.
SAAVIK: Activate escape pods. Send out the Log Buoy. All hands abandon ship. Repeat all hands
KIRK'S VOICE: ( FILTERED ) All right, open her up.
SAAVIK: Any suggestions, Admiral?
KIRK: Prayer, Mr. Saavik. The Klingons do not take prisoners. Trainees to the briefing room.
SPOCK: Trainees to the briefing room.
KIRK: Physician, heal thyself.
BONES: That's all you have to say?
KIRK: I'm not a drama critic.
KIRK: ( continuing ) Well, Mr. Saavik, are you going to stay with the sinking ship?
SAAVIK: Permission to speak candidly, sir?
KIRK: Very well.
SAAVIK: ( fights emotion ) I don't believe this was a fair test of my command capabilities.
KIRK: And why not?
SAAVIK: Because. there was no way to win.
KIRK: A no-win situation is a possibility every commander may face. Has that never occurred to you?
SAAVIK: . No, sir. It has not.
KIRK: How we deal with death is at least as important as how we deal with life, wouldn't you say?
SAAVIK: ( falters ) As I indicated, Admiral, that thought had not occurred to me.
KIRK: Then you have something new to think about. Carry on.
BONES: Wouldn't it be easier to put an experienced crew back on the They'll learn. Galloping about the cosmos is a game for the young,
KIRK: They'll learn. Galloping about the cosmos is a game for the young,
UHURA: ( offended ) What is that supposed to mean?
KIRK: ( dry ) Aren't you dead?
KIRK: ( continuing ) I assume you are loitering here to learn what efficiency rating I plan to give your cadets.
SPOCK: I am understandably curious.
KIRK: They destroyed the simulator room and you with it.
SPOCK: frequently wreaks havoc with students and equipment. As I recall you took the test three times yourself. Your final solution was, shall we say, unique?
KIRK: ( solemn ) It had the virtue of never having been tried.
SPOCK: Yours was not a solution which would have occurred to a Vulcan So you said at the time. Speaking of which, your prot‚g‚'s first rare a trifle emotional
KIRK: So you said at the time. Speaking of which, your prot‚g‚'s first rare a trifle emotional
SPOCK: She's half Romulan, Jim. The admixture makes her more volatile than me, for example.
KIRK: Than you. Yes, I see that. By the way, thank you for this.
SPOCK: I know of your fondness for antiques.
KIRK: ( reads ) 'It was the best of times, it was the worst of times.' Message, None of which I am consciously aware except, of course, happy birthday surely the best of times.
SPOCK: None of which I am consciously aware except, of course, happy birthday surely the best of times.
KIRK: Hrummm. and where are you off to, now?
SPOCK: The Enterprise. I must check in before your inspection. And you?
KIRK: ( shortly )
SPOCK: Something oppresses you.
KIRK: He steps into a turbo elevator. The doors close as Spock watches, wiping the scene.
CHEKOV'S VOICE: Starship log, Stardate 8130.4. This report classified MOST SECRET. Log Entry by Commander Pavel Chekov, Duty Officer. Starship USS Reliant on orbital approach with Ceti Alpha VI in connection with project code name GENESIS. We are continuing our search for a lifeless planet which will serve as a suitable test site for the Genesis Experiments. This is the 16th planet we have visited, so far, no success.
TERRELL: Standard orbit, Mr. Beach.
BEACH: Standard orbit, sir.
TERRELL: Any change in surface scan?
BEACH: Negative. Limited atmosphere, dominated by craylon gas, sand and high velocity winds. Incapable of supporting life forms.
CHEKOV: Does it have to be
TERRELL: Don't tell me you've got something.
CHEKOV: ( points ) We've picked up a minor energy flux reading on one dyno scanner.
TERRELL: Damn! Are you sure? Maybe the scanner's out of adjustment
CHEKOV: I suppose it of preanimate matter caught in the All right, let's get on the Comm-pic to Doctor Marcus. Maybe it's something we can transplant.
TERRELL: All right, let's get on the Comm-pic to Doctor Marcus. Maybe it's something we can transplant.
CHEKOV: You know what she'll say.
TERRELL: It might only be a particle of preanimate matter.
CAROL: Then again it might not. You boys have to be clear on this: there can't be so much as a microbe or the show's off. Why don't you have a look? If it IS something that can be moved.
TERRELL: ( eager ) You bet, doctor. We're on our way!
DAVID: How can you let them pull that stuff on you? They're just lazy.
CAROL: And bored. I know. But maybe it IS something they can.
DAVID: Come on, Mother, that's just the military mentality. Never put off tomorrow what you can put off today. If there's one atom of life.
CAROL: I know, I know. Well, don't have kittens. Genesis is going to work. They'll remember you in a wreath with Newton, Einstein, Surak.
DAVID: Well, don't have kittens. Genesis is going to work. They'll remember you in a wreath with Newton, Einstein, Surak.
CAROL: ( mock outrage ) Thanks a lot. No respect from my Par for the course. you teaming up with me for bridge after dinner?
DAVID: Par for the course. you teaming up with me for bridge after dinner?
CAROL: Every time we have dealings with Starfleet, I get nervous. We're dealing with something that COULD be perverted into a dreadful weapon. Remember that overgrown boy scout you used to hang out with? That's exactly
DAVID: Every time we have dealings with Starfleet, I get nervous. We're dealing with something that COULD be perverted into a dreadful weapon. Remember that overgrown boy scout you used to hang out with? That's exactly
CAROL: Listen, kiddo, Jim Kirk was many things, but he was never a Boy
KIRK: The door slides open and Bones enters. He carries two packages, one of them wrapped in brown paper.
KIRK: ( continuing ) Bless me, doctor; and what beams you into this neck of the woods?
BONES: 'Beware Romulans bearing gifts.' Happy Birthday. Romulan Ale! Bones, you know this stuff is illegal
KIRK: Romulan Ale! Bones, you know this stuff is illegal
BONES: ( broad ) I only use it for medicinal purposes. Don't be a pring.
KIRK: ( reading the label Twenty-two, eighty-three.
BONES: Takes the stuff a while to ferment. Gimme.
BONES: ( continuing ) Now open the other one.
KIRK: I'm almost afraid to. What did you bring me, contraband Klingon
BONES: More antiques for your collection
KIRK: Cheers. Bones, these are. charming.
BONES: Four hundred years old. You don't find many with the lens still Uh what are they?
KIRK: Uh what are they?
BONES: For your eyes. For most patients of your age, I generally administer Retlax Five to restore flexibility of the lens.
KIRK: But I'm allergic to Retlax.
BONES: Exactly. Happy birthday.
BONES: ( continuing ) Slide them down your nose. Now look at me over the top. And you read printed matter through the bottom.
KIRK: ( reacts ) Amazing! I don't know what to say
BONES: Say thank you.
KIRK: Thank you.
BONES: Damn it, Jim, what the hell's the matter? Other people have birthdays. Why're we treating yours like a funeral?
KIRK: Bones, I don't want to be lectured.
BONES: What DO you want? Damn it, why isn't there a girl here? You know this has nothing to do with age. This is about you flying a goddamn computer console when you wanna be out hopping Galaxies.
KIRK: Spare me your notions of poetry, please. We all have our assigned duties and.
BONES: Bull. You're hiding hiding behind the rules and regulations
KIRK: And who am I hiding from?
BONES: From yourself, Admiral.
KIRK: Don't mince words, Bones; tell me what you really think.
BONES: ( mild take ) I'm your doctor and I'm your friend, Jim. Get back your command. Get it back before you really do grow old. Before you turn into part of this
TERRELL: Are you sure these are the Captain, this is the garden spot of Ceti Alpha VI
CHEKOV: Captain, this is the garden spot of Ceti Alpha VI
TERRELL: I can hardly see
CHEKOV: There's nothing, let's go
TERRELL: They look like cargo carriers. What is it?
TERRELL: ( continuing ) What is it?
CHEKOV: A face! I saw it was like a
TERRELL: You're crazy !
CHEKOV: I saw it !
TERRELL: There's an air-lock.
TERRELL: There's breathable atmosphere in here.
TERRELL: ( continuing ) What the hell is this? Did they crash? Where's the rest of the
CHEKOV: ( terrified ) I told you! I told you I saw a
TERRELL: They start looking. They enter a new chamber
CHEKOV: ( examines the child ) What's the matter ? Captain, we've got to get out of here now! Damn! Hurry!
TERRELL: ( examines the child ) What's the matter ? Captain, we've got to get out of here now! Damn! Hurry!
CHEKOV: Captain, we've got to get out of here now! Damn! Hurry!
TERRELL: But the child
CHEKOV: Never mind! Hurry!
BEACH: Try again.
KYLE: Starship Reliant to Captain Terrell . This is Lieutenant Kyle. Will you please respond, Captain. Captain Terrell, respond please. Let's give them a little more
BEACH: ( thinks ) Let's give them a little more
CHEKOV: ( aloud despite himself )
KHAN: ( finally ) I don't know you. But you. I never forget a face. Mister Chekov, isn't it? ( wonderingly ) I never thought to see your face Chekov, who is this man?
TERRELL: Chekov, who is this man?
CHEKOV: A criminal, Captain a product of the late 20th Century genetic What do you want with us? I demand
TERRELL: What do you want with us? I demand
KHAN: ( mild ) You are in a position to demand nothing, sir. I, on the other hand, am in a position to grant nothing. What you see is all that remains of the ship's company and the crew of the Botany Bay, marooned here fifteen years ago by Captain James T. Kirk.
TERRELL: Listen to me you men and women
KHAN: Save your strength, Captain, these people have sworn to live and die at my command two hundred years before you were born. Do you mean he. . never told you the tale? To amuse you, Captain? Never told you how the Enterprise picked up the Botany Bay, lost in space from the year 1996, myself and the ship's company in cryogenic freeze?
TERRELL: I've never even met Admiral Kirk
KHAN: Admiral? He didn't tell you how Admiral Kirk sent seventy of us into exile on this barren sand heap with only the contents of these cargo bays to sustain us?
CHEKOV: You lie! On Ceti Alpha V there was life, a fair chance to
KHAN: exploded six months after we were left here. The shock shifted the orbit of this planet and everything was laid waste. Admiral Kirk never bothered to check on our progress. It was only the fact of my genetically engineered intellect that enabled us to survive! On earth, two hundred years ago, I was a prince, with power over millions now, like Prometheus I have been left by Admiral Kirk to digest my own entrails.
CHEKOV: Captain Kirk was your host! You repaid his hospitality by trying to steal his ship and murder him.
KHAN: ( moves closer ) And I'll wager he never told you about his shipmate, the beautiful and courageous Lieutenant McGiver, who gave up everything to join me in exile. OUT OF LOVE. And see how Admiral Kirk requited her devotion She's dead as earth!
KHAN: ( continuing ) A plague upon you all.
KHAN: ( continuing ) You didn't expect to find me. You thought this was Ceti Alpha VI. Why are you here?
KHAN: ( continuing )
KHAN: ( continuing ) No matter.
KHAN: ( continuing ) You will soon tell me willingly
KHAN: ( continuing ) Let me introduce you to Ceti Alpha V's only remaining indigenous life form; what do you think? They've killed twenty of my people, including my beloved wife. Oh, not all at once and not instantly, to be sure. Their young enter through the ears and wrap themselves around the cerebral cortex. This has the effect of rendering the victim extremely susceptible to suggestion. Later, as they grow, follows madness, paralysis and death. These are pets, of course not quite domesticated. Khan, listen to me! Captain Kirk was only doing his duty! You
CHEKOV: Khan, listen to me! Captain Kirk was only doing his duty! You
KHAN: There is some pain at first, I am told, and then the effects are quite benign until the end. That was what I learned from watching my wife.
KHAN: ( continuing ) That's better! Now: tell me why you are here and tell me where I may find James Kirk.
KYLE: Captain Terrell. Captain Terrell. This is Reliant; please respond.
BEACH: Mr. Kyle, muster a landing party with full arms. Alert the transporter room. We're beaming
TERRELL'S VOICE: ( filtered ) Reliant, this is Terrell. Respond This is Reliant. Clark, are you all right?
BEACH: This is Reliant. Clark, are you all right?
TERRELL'S VOICE: ( filtered ) Everything's fine, commander. I'll explain when I see you. Oh, by the way, we're bringing several guests aboard. Prepare to beam up on my next signal. Terrell out.
KYLE: Maybe we ARE transplanting something.
BEACH: Maybe we ARE transplanting something.
SULU: Enterprise, this is Admiral Kirk's party on final approach.
ENTERPRISE VOICE: ( filtered ) Enterprise welcomes you. Prepare for docking.
KIRK: I really must thank you.
SULU: ( embarrassed ) I am delighted; any chance to go aboard Enterprise, however briefly, is always an excuse for nostalgia.
KIRK: I cut your new orders personally. By the end of the month, you'll have your first command: USS EXCELSIOR.
SULU: Thank you, sir. I've looked forward to this for a long time.
KIRK: You've earned it. But I'm still grateful to have you at the helm for three weeks. I don't believe these kids can steer.
INTERCOM VOICE: Docking procedure complete.
SPOCK: Prepare for Admiral's inspection.
SPOCK: ( continuing ) Open the Air Lock.
KIRK: Permission to come aboard, Captain?
SPOCK: Welcome aboard, Admiral. I believe you know my trainee crew. Certainly they have come to know you.
KIRK: ( dryly to Saavik ) Yes, we've been through death and life together.
KIRK: ( continuing to Scotty ) Mr. Scott, you old space dog. You're I had me a wee bout but Dr. McCoy pulled me through.
SCOTTY: I had me a wee bout but Dr. McCoy pulled me through.
KIRK: Oh? A wee bout of what, Mr. Scott?
BONES: Shore leave, Admiral.
KIRK: He stops before a BRIGHT-FACED FOURTEEN-YEAR OLD, stand- ing so stiff he looks like he'll break in an engineer's uniform.
KIRK: ( continuing ) And who is this?
PRESTON: ( breathless ) Midshipman First Class Peter Preston, engineers mate, SIR.
KIRK: Your first training voyage, Mr. Yes, SIR.
PRESTON: Yes, SIR.
KIRK: I see. Well, shall we start with the engine room?
SCOTTY: ( eyeing his prot‚g‚ ) I believe you'll find all in order
SPOCK: We'll see you on the bridge, Admiral.
KIRK: Very good, Mr. Spock.
SAAVIK: He's not what I expected, Sir.
SPOCK: What did you expect, Lieutenant?
SAAVIK: ( uncertain ) He's very human.
SPOCK: We can't all be perfect, Saavik. You must control your prejudices and remember that as a Vulcan as well as a Romulan you are forever a stranger in an alien land. Around you are humans, and as a member of the Starfleet you are unlikely ever to escape their presence or their influence. You must learn to tolerance in addition to all else I have taught you. Tolerance is logical.
SAAVIK: As always, my mentor. Company dismiss.
PRESTON: ( blurting ) I believe you'll find everything shipshape, Admiral.
KIRK: ( sternly puts Oh do you? Have you any idea, Midshipman Preston, how many times I've had to listen to Mr. Scott on the Comm, telling me his troubles? Have you any idea the ribbing I've had to endure in the officers' mess to the effect that the Enterprise is a flying death trap?
PRESTON: ( scandalized ) Oh, no, sir! This is the finest engine room in the whole Star
PRESTON: ( continuing ) If the Admiral can't see the facts for himself, then, with all due respect, he's as blind as a Tiberion bat. SIR.
KIRK: Midshipman, you're a tiger.
SCOTTY: My sister's youngest, Admiral. Crazy to get to space.
KIRK: Every young boy's fancy. I seem to remember it myself. Very well. Mr. Scott, are your engines capable of handling a minor training cruise?
SCOTTY: Give the word, Admiral.
KIRK: Mr. Scott, the word is given.
SCOTTY: Aye, sir.
BONES: ( dry ) What about the rest of the inspection, Admiral?
KIRK: The inspection will continue once we're underway, Doctor.
INTERCOM VOICE: This is Starfleet operations. Enterprise is cleared for departure.
SULU: Admiral on the bridge!
SPOCK: Very well, Mr. Saavik, clear all Aye, sir.
SAAVIK: Aye, sir.
SAAVIK: All moorings are clear, Captain.
SPOCK: Thank you, Mr. Saavik.
SPOCK: ( continuing ) Lieutenant, how many times have you piloted a Starship out of Spacedock?
SAAVIK: Never, sir.
SPOCK: Take her out, Mr. Saavik.
SAAVIK: Aye, sir.
SPOCK: There's a first time for everything, To be sure, Captain.
KIRK: ( casual ) To be sure, Captain.
SAAVIK: Aft thrusters, Mr. Sulu.
SULU: Aft thrusters, sir.
SAAVIK: Ahead one quarter impulse power.
BONES: ( sotto voice ) Would you like a tranquilizer?
SULU: Ahead one quarter impulse power.
SULU: We are clear and free to navigate.
SAAVIK: Course heading, Captain?
KIRK: Captain's discretion.
SPOCK: Mr. Sulu, you may follow your nose.
JOACHIM: Steady on course. All systems normal.
KHAN: It's not much different from When I was a guest aboard her some years ago, Captain Kirk kindly allowed me to memorize her technical manuals. And now, Mr. Chekov, let us review: You say you have no details of Project 'Genesis' ?
CHEKOV: Beyond what I told you, sir, it is classified information.
KHAN: Umm. And would Admiral Kirk have access to such information?
CHEKOV: I would think so, sir. He's on the Fleet General Staff.
KHAN: Then to whom do you report directly regarding Genesis?
CHEKOV: To Doctor Marcus, the civilian director of the experiments on Space Laboratory Regula I.
KHAN: ( thinks ) I see. Helmsman?
HELMSMAN: Aye, sir.
JOACHIM: May I speak? We're all with you, sir, but consider: we are free, we have a ship and the means to go where we will. We have escaped permanent exile on Ceti Alpha V. You have proved your superior intellect and defeated the plans of Admiral Kirk. You do not need to defeat him He tasks me and I'll have him. I'll chase him round the moons of Nibia and round the Antares maelstrom and round perdition's flames before I give him up. Prepare to alter course for Space Station Regula I.
KHAN: He tasks me and I'll have him. I'll chase him round the moons of Nibia and round the Antares maelstrom and round perdition's flames before I give him up. Prepare to alter course for Space Station Regula I.
DAVID: Does that about do it?
CAROL: I don't think there's another piece of information we could squeeze into the memory banks. Next time, we'll design a bigger
DAVID: Jedda at the Comm Console overlaps.
JEDDA: Comm-Pic coming in on hyperchannel . It's Reliant.
CAROL: On the screen, please, Jedda.
CHEKOV: . come in, please. This is Reliant calling Regula I. Repeat. This is USS Reliant
CAROL: Commander, we are receiving. This is Regula I. Go ahead.
CHEKOV: Dr. Marcus. good. We're en route to you and should be there in three En route? Why? We weren't expecting you for another three months. Has something happened? Has something happened? Do you read All went well. Nothing has happened. Ceti Alpha VI has checked out.
CAROL: En route? Why? We weren't expecting you for another three months. Has something happened? Has something happened? Do you read All went well. Nothing has happened. Ceti Alpha VI has checked out.
CHEKOV: ( fractional pause ) All went well. Nothing has happened. Ceti Alpha VI has checked out.
CAROL: I still don't under
CHEKOV: We have received new orders. Upon our arrival at Regula I, all materials of Project Genesis will be transferred to this ship for immediate testing at Ceti Alpha VI.
CAROL: ( back to console ) Commander Chekov, this is completely irregular. Who gave the order you are quoting? Who gave the order?
CHEKOV: ( still smiling ) The order comes from Starfleet command, Dr. Marcus, direct from the General Staff.
CAROL: But Genesis is a civilian project, under my control
CHEKOV: I have my orders.
DAVID: Pin him down, mother! Who gave the
CHEKOV: The orders come from Admiral James T. Kirk.
DAVID: I knew it! I knew it! All along the military has wanted to get their hands on this
CAROL: This is completely improper, Commander Chekov. I have no intention of allowing Reliant or any other unauthorized personnel access to our work or materials.
CHEKOV: ( pauses; listens ) I'm sorry you feel that way, Doctor. Admiral Kirk's orders are confirmed. Please prepare to deliver Genesis to us upon our arrival. Reliant out.
CAROL: Commander Chekov !
KHAN: Well done, Commander.
CHEKOV: You realize, sir, that they will attempt to contact Admiral Kirk and confirm the order.
CAROL: Will you please be quiet! We must have order here. This has to be some sort of mistake.
DAVID: Mistake? We're all alone here. They waited until everyone was on shift-leave to do this. Reliant is supposed to be at our disposal, not It seems clear that Starfleet never intended that
MADISON: It seems clear that Starfleet never intended that
CAROL: I know, but
DAVID: I've tried to warn you. Scientists are always pawns of the military
CAROL: ( angry ) Starfleet has kept the peace for a hundred years, I cannot and will not subscribe to your interpretation of this event. ( Deltan cool ) You may be right, Doctor, but what about Reliant? She's on her way.
JEDDA: ( Deltan cool ) You may be right, Doctor, but what about Reliant? She's on her way.
CAROL: Get your gear together where it's Where are we going?
MARCH: Where are we going?
CAROL: That's for us to know and Reliant to find out. We have only three days. Let's not waste time.
SAAVIK'S VOICE: Hold please !
SAAVIK: ( continuing ) Thank you, sir.
KIRK: Lieutenant, are you wearing your hair differently?
SAAVIK: It is still regulation, Admiral.
SAAVIK: ( continuing ) May I speak, sir?
KIRK: Lieutenant, self-expression does not seem to be one of your problems.
SAAVIK: I wish to thank you for the high efficiency rating.
KIRK: You earned it.
SAAVIK: I did not think so.
KIRK: You're bothered by your performance on the Kobayashi Maru.
SAAVIK: I failed to resolve the situation.
KIRK: There is no correct resolution. It is a test of character.
SAAVIK: May I ask how You may ask, Lieutenant.
KIRK: ( amused ) You may ask, Lieutenant.
KIRK: ( continuing ) That was a little joke.
SAAVIK: Humor. that is a difficult concept . it is not logical.
KIRK: We learn by doing, Lieutenant.
KIRK: ( continuing ) You want my advice? Take the test again.
SAAVIK: Take the test again.
KIRK: Take the test again.
BONES: Who's been holding up the damn
SAAVIK: Thank you, sir. Has she changed her hairstyle?
BONES: Has she changed her hairstyle?
BONES: ( finally ) Wonderful stuff, that Romulan Admiral Kirk
UHURA'S VOICE: Admiral Kirk
KIRK: Kirk here.
UHURA'S VOICE: I have an urgent CommPic from Space Lab Regula I for the Admiral. Dr. Carol Marcus.
KIRK: In my quarters, Uhura.
UHURA'S VOICE: Yes, sir.
BONES: It never rains but when it pours
KIRK: As a physician you of all people should appreciate the danger of re-opening old wounds.
BONES: ( annoyed with
KIRK: Uhura. Can't you augment?
UHURA: I'm trying, sir. Stand by.
CAROL: Jim. read me? Can you read me?
KIRK: Message breaking up, Carol. What's wrong? What's wrong?
CAROL: . Can't read you. repeat.
KIRK: Repeat. what's wrong? What's . taking Genesis away from us.
CAROL: . taking Genesis away from us.
KIRK: Taking Genesis? Who? Who is taking . see you but can't hear. Did you. order.?
CAROL: . see you but can't hear. Did you. order.?
KIRK: What order? Who's taking Genesis?
CAROL: . Please help us, Jim. won't let them have. without proper. repeat. on whose authority.
KIRK: Jim please
CAROL: Jim please
KIRK: Uhura! What's happening? Damn Transmission jammed at the source, Damn. Alert Starfleet Headquarters. I want to talk with Starfleet
UHURA'S VOICE: Transmission jammed at the source, Damn. Alert Starfleet Headquarters. I want to talk with Starfleet
KIRK: Damn. Alert Starfleet Headquarters. I want to talk with Starfleet
KIRK: Stop engines.
SULU: Stop engines.
KIRK: An emergency situation has arisen. By order of Starfleet Command, as of now, 1800 hours, I am assuming command of this vessel. Duty officer so note in the ship's log. Plot a new course: for Space Laboratory Regula I. Mr. Scott?
SCOTTY'S VOICE: Aye, sir.
KIRK: We'll be going to warp speed
SCOTTY'S VOICE: Aye, sir
SULU: ( overlapping ) Course plotted for Regula I, Admiral.
KIRK: Engage warp engines
SAAVIK: ( comes out of being Prepare for warp speed.
SULU: Ready, sir.
KIRK: Mr. Sulu, go to Warp 5.
KIRK: We've got a problem.
KIRK: ( continuing ) Something may be wrong at Regula I. We've been ordered to investigate.
SPOCK: Regula I is a scientific research laboratory, if memory serves.
KIRK: I told Starfleet all we had was a boatload of children but we're the only ship in the quadrant. Spock: those cadets of yours how good are they? How will they respond under real pressure?
SPOCK: Like all living beings, Admiral each according to his gifts. The ship is yours.
KIRK: That won't be necessary: just take me to Regula I.
SPOCK: Excuse my presumption, but I do not agree. As a teacher on a training mission, I am content to command a Starship. If we are to go on actual duty, it is clear that the senior officer aboard must assume command.
KIRK: But it may be nothing; garbled communications. Why don't you.
SPOCK: You proceed from a false assumption. I am a Vulcan. I have no ego to bruise.
KIRK: You are going to remind me that logic alone dictates your actions.
SPOCK: I was going to remind you of nothing, least of all that which you know well. Your mistake, if I may be so bold, was promotion. Commanding a Starship is your first best destiny. Anything else is a waste of material.
KIRK: I would not presume to debate you.
SPOCK: That is wise. In any case, were I to invoke logic, logic clearly dictates that the needs of the many outweigh the needs of the few.
KIRK: Or the one.
SPOCK: You are my superior officer. You are also my friend. I have been and always shall be yours.
KIRK: Will you accompany me to the bridge?
SPOCK: I'd best talk with Mr. Scott, first so that he may, in his own words, explain the situation to his cadets.
UHURA'S VOICE: Regula I, this is Enterprise. This is Enterprise calling. Do you receive. I say.
UHURA: . Again, this is Enterprise calling Space Lab Regula I. Come in, please. Dr. Marcus. Please respond, please it's no use; no response from Regula I.
SPOCK: But no longer jammed?
UHURA: No, sir. No nothing.
SPOCK: There are two possibilities, sir they are unwilling to respond, they are unable to respond.
KIRK: How far?
SPOCK: Twelve hours and forty-three minutes, present speed.
KIRK: Give up Genesis, she said. What in God's name does that mean? Give it up to whom?
SPOCK: It might help my analysis if I knew what Genesis was.
KIRK: Uhura, ask Dr. McCoy to join us in my quarters. Mr. Saavik, take the
BONES: I've got the sick bay ready. Will someone please tell me what is going Computer. Request security procedure and access to Project Genesis Identify for retina scan.
KIRK: ( dims lights ) Computer. Request security procedure and access to Project Genesis Identify for retina scan.
COMPUTER VOICE: Identify for retina scan.
KIRK: Kirk, Admiral James T., Starfleet General Staff. Security Class 1.
KIRK: ( continuing ) Summary, please.
SPOCK: Carol Marcus
KIRK: 63 ON SCREEN ( AND INTERCUT ) 63
CAROL: I'm Dr. Carol Marcus, and I am the director of the Project Genesis team at Regula I. What exactly IS Genesis? Put simply, Genesis is a procedure whereby the molecular structure of any given matter can be restructured changed into anything else of identical mass.
SPOCK: Stage One of our experiments was conducted in the labora- tory. Stage Two of the series will be attempted in a lifeless underground; Stage Three will involve the process on a plane- tary scale. What follows is a computer projected simulation of Stage Three. Please watch It is our intention to introduce what we call the Genesis device or "torpedo" into the targeted area of a lifeless space body, a moon or other inert form the device is fired
KIRK: Stage One of our experiments was conducted in the labora- tory. Stage Two of the series will be attempted in a lifeless underground; Stage Three will involve the process on a plane- tary scale. What follows is a computer projected simulation of Stage Three. Please watch It is our intention to introduce what we call the Genesis device or "torpedo" into the targeted area of a lifeless space body, a moon or other inert form the device is fired
CAROL: Stage One of our experiments was conducted in the labora- tory. Stage Two of the series will be attempted in a lifeless underground; Stage Three will involve the process on a plane- tary scale. What follows is a computer projected simulation of Stage Three. Please watch It is our intention to introduce what we call the Genesis device or "torpedo" into the targeted area of a lifeless space body, a moon or other inert form the device is fired
CAROL: Unleashing, almost instantan- eously, what we call the Genesis effect. Particulate matter is reorganized and electrified with life introduced results. Instead of a dead moon, a living breathing planet, capable of sus- taining whatever life forms we see fit to deposit on it. The reformed object you see represents the merest fraction of the Genesis potential, should the Federation wish to pursue these experiments to their logical conclusion.
CAROL: When we consider the problems of population and food supply, the usefulness of this process begins to become clear. This concludes this demonstration tape. Thank you for your attention. The Genesis team eagerly awaits the decision of the Federation regarding the next phase of our work.
SPOCK: It literally is Genesis.
KIRK: The power of creation
SPOCK: Have they proceeded with their The tape was made a year ago. I can only assume they've reached Phase Two by now
KIRK: The tape was made a year ago. I can only assume they've reached Phase Two by now
BONES: But dear Lord, are we intelligent enough to Suppose, this thing were used where life already It would destroy such life in favor of its new matrix
SPOCK: It would destroy such life in favor of its new matrix
BONES: It's new have you any idea what you're saying?
SPOCK: I was not attempting to evaluate its moral implications, Doctor. As a matter of cosmic history, it has always been easier to destroy than to create
BONES: Not anymore! Now you can do both at the same time! According to myth, the earth was created in six days. Watch out: here comes Genesis; we'll do it for you in six minutes
SPOCK: I don't dispute that in the wrong Would you like to tell me whose are the right hands, my cold-blooded friend? Are you in favor of these Gentlemen, this isn't
BONES: Would you like to tell me whose are the right hands, my cold-blooded friend? Are you in favor of these Gentlemen, this isn't
KIRK: Gentlemen, this isn't
SPOCK: Really, Dr. McCoy; you cannot ban the acquisition of knowledge because you distrust the moral implications of what you learn. Logic suggests
BONES: universal Armageddon, you inhuman Admiral, sensors indicate a vessel in our area, closing fast.
SAAVIK'S VOICE: ( intercom ) Admiral, sensors indicate a vessel in our area, closing fast.
KIRK: What do you make of her?
SAAVIK'S VOICE: It's one of ours, Admiral. It's What's she doing here?
SPOCK: What's she doing here?
KIRK: Chekov's on Reliant, isn't he?
UHURA: She's not responding.
KIRK: Try the emergency channels.
UHURA: Enterprise to Reliant. Come in, Picture, Mr. Saavik.
KIRK: Picture, Mr. Saavik.
SPOCK: Attempt visual communication.
UHURA: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Is it possible their COMM system has failed ?
SPOCK: It would explain a great many things
KHAN: ( almost sing-song Slow to one-half impulse power. Let's be friends.
HELMSMAN: Slowing to one-half impulse.
JOACHIM: They're requesting visual communications, sir.
KHAN: Let them eat static.
JOACHIM: They're still running with shields down.
KHAN: Of course. We're one big happy fleet. Ah, Kirk, my old friend, do you know the Klingon proverb that tells us revenge is a dish that is best served cold? It is very cold in space.
SULU: Reliant in our section this quadrant, sir, and slowing
KIRK: Visual of Reliant appears.
SAAVIK: Sir, may I quote General Order 12: 'On the approach of any vessel, when communications have not been est
SPOCK: Lieutenant, the Admiral is aware of the Regulations.
SAAVIK: Aye, sir.
KIRK: ( watches the This is damned peculiar. ( beat ) Yellow alert.
SAAVIK: Energize defense fields.
UHURA: I'm getting a voice message. wait . short range band. They say their Chambers coil is shorting their COMM
KIRK: He steps to his station.
SPOCK: He steps to his station.
JOACHIM: They still haven't raised their
KHAN: Careful: Not all at once. engine room. Lock on target and prepare to fire.
JOACHIM: Locking phasers on target.
SPOCK: Their coil emissions are normal. Wait: their shields are going up. They're locking phasers !
KIRK: Raise shields! Energize phasers, stand by to
SIRENS SHRIEKING!: 79 ANGLE - THE TRAINEES 79
SCOTTY: Respirators! Get back! Use your
KIRK: Mr. Sulu. The shields!
SULU: Trying, sir!
INTERCOM VOICE: Medical Alert: Engine Room.
SULU: I can't get power, sir!
KIRK: Scotty's voice is faint, drowned by the screams and cries from a dozen intercom stations.
KIRK: ( continuing ) Uhura, turn off those damn
UHURA: Mr. Scott on discrete.
KIRK: Scotty, let's have it.
SCOTTY: Just hanging on, sir. Main energizers
SPOCK: They knew just where to hit us.
KIRK: WHO? Who knew just where to hit us? And why?
SPOCK: ( shakes head ) One thing is certain; we cannot escape on auxiliary power.
KIRK: ( sees visual ) Mr. Sulu, divert everything to the ( re screen ) Too late
SPOCK: ( re screen ) Too late
KIRK: Hang on!
KIRK: Scotty what's left?
SCOTTY'S VOICE: Just the batteries, sir. I can have auxiliary power in a few minutes
KIRK: We don't have minutes. Can you give me phaser power?
SCOTTY'S VOICE: A few shots, sir.
SPOCK: Not enough against their shields.
KIRK: Who the
UHURA: Admiral. Commander Reliant is He wishes to discuss terms of our
KIRK: On screen.
UHURA: ( hesitating ) Do it, while we have time.
KIRK: Do it, while we have time.
KIRK: ( continuing; dumbfounded ) You still remember, Admiral. I cannot help but be touched. Of course, I remember you.
SAAVIK: You still remember, Admiral. I cannot help but be touched. Of course, I remember you.
KHAN: You still remember, Admiral. I cannot help but be touched. Of course, I remember you.
KIRK: What is the meaning of this attack? Where is the crew of the Reliant?
KHAN: Surely I have made my meaning plain. I mean to avenge myself upon you, Admiral. I've deprived your ship of power and when I swing round I mean to deprive you of your life
KHAN: ( on screen ) But I wanted you to know first who it was who had beaten you: I, Khan Noonian Singh, the eagle you attempted to cage forever.
KIRK: Khan, listen to me if its me you want, I'll have myself beamed aboard. All I ask is that you spare my crew.
KHAN: That is a most intriguing offer. Typical, I must say of your sterling character. Let me think.
KHAN: ( on screen ) I make you a counter-proposal, I will agree to your terms, if in addition to yourself, you turn over to me all data and material regarding the project called Genesis.
KIRK: Genesis, what's that?
KHAN: Don't play with me, Kirk, my hand is on the phaser control
KIRK: Give me some time to recall the data on our computers
KHAN: I give you sixty seconds, Admiral.
SPOCK: Admiral, you can't give him Genesis.
KIRK: At least we know he hasn't got it. Just keep nodding as though I'm giving orders. Saavik, punch up the data charts of Reliant's command console hurry.
SAAVIK: Reliant's command.
KIRK: The prefix code?
SPOCK: The prefix code?
KIRK: It's all we've got.
SAAVIK: On screen.
KIRK: ( to Khan ) We're finding it. ( urging ) Please, please you've got to give us time the bridge is smashed, computers inoperative.
KHAN: Time is a luxury you do not have, Admiral: forty-five seconds.
SAAVIK: I don't understand
KIRK: You've got to learn WHY things work on a Starship. It's coming through now, Khan.
SPOCK: ( descends ) The prefix code is 16309. All commands from each Starship bridge are relayed electronically; each ship has its own prefix combination Thirty seconds.
KHAN: Thirty seconds.
KIRK: . to prevent an enemy from doing just what we're attempting; using our console to tap in a message, an order to lower Reliant's damn Let's hope he hasn't changed the combination. He's quite intelligent.
SPOCK: ( at the weapons console ) Let's hope he hasn't changed the combination. He's quite intelligent.
KIRK: ( grim ) Wait for my signal, Spock too soon and he'll have time to figure it out and raise them again.
KIRK: ( continuing ) Khan, how do I know you'll keep your word?
KHAN: ( on screen ) I've given you no word to keep, Admiral. In my judgment, you simply have no alternative.
KIRK: I take your point. Stand by to receive our transmission.
KIRK: ( continuing ) Mr. Sulu, lock phasers on target and await my command.
SULU: ( quietly ) Phasers locked.
KHAN: Time's up, Admiral.
KIRK: ( dry ) Here it comes. Now, Spock.
JOACHIM: ( stares at his console ) Sir our shields are dropping!
KHAN: Raise them
JOACHIM: They won't
KHAN: All monitors are haywire now that Enterprise is tapped in. They search wildly for the right switch, but.
KIRK: 98 CLOSE UP - SULU'S HANDS 98 99 EXT. SPACE 99
FIRE!: 98 CLOSE UP - SULU'S HANDS 98 99 EXT. SPACE 99
KHAN: ( enraged ) At them! At them! FIRE! FIRE! Why can't you?
JOACHIM: We can't fire, sir; they've damaged the photon controls and the warp drive. We must withdraw!
KHAN: Sir, we must! We must repair the damage. Enterprise will wait; she's not going anywhere.
JOACHIM: Sir, we must! We must repair the damage. Enterprise will wait; she's not going anywhere.
SULU: ( breathless ) Sir, you did it.
KIRK: ( enraged ) I did nothing except get caught with my britches down. I must be senile. Mr. Saavik, you just keep right on quoting regulations. Meantime, let's find out what the hell is going on and see how bad we've been
CREW CHIEF: Hit your blowers!
PRESTON: ( faint ) Is the word given?
KIRK: ( soft ) The word is given: warp speed.
PRESTON: ( almost smiles )
SCOTTY: ( looks at Preston ) He wants to kill me for passing sentence on him 14 years ago and he doesn't care who stands between him and his vengeance.
WHY?: ( looks at Preston ) He wants to kill me for passing sentence on him 14 years ago and he doesn't care who stands between him and his vengeance.
KIRK: ( looks at Preston ) He wants to kill me for passing sentence on him 14 years ago and he doesn't care who stands between him and his vengeance.
BONES: Scotty, I'm sorry.
SCOTTY: He stayed at his post. When the trainees ran, he stayed.
KIRK: If he hadn't, we'd be space by now.
SPOCK'S VOICE: Admiral, this is Spock.
KIRK: Yes, Spock.
SPOCK'S VOICE: Engine room reports auxiliary power restored. We can proceed at impulse Best speed to Regula I. Kirk out. Scotty, I've got to ask: Any chance of getting the mains back on the line?
KIRK: ( thinks ) Best speed to Regula I. Kirk out. Scotty, I've got to ask: Any chance of getting the mains back on the line?
SCOTTY: I dinna think so, sir, but you'll have my best
SCOTTY: ( continuing ) Thanks I know you tried, Doctor.
KIRK: Are you all right?
BONES: Doctors lose patients sometimes. Damn. I'm still in the dark: How'd he know about Genesis?
KIRK: At the moment that question takes a back seat to preventing him from laying his hands on it. You said it yourself; we're talking about a bang that would re-arrange the universe.
BONES: There may still be time. you gave as good as you got.
KIRK: ( looks him in the eye ) I got beat. We're only alive because I knew something about these ships that he didn't.
KIRK: Try again.
UHURA: Space Station Regular I, this is Starship Enterprise. Come in, please.
UHURA: I say again. Space Station Regular. This is Starship Enterprise. Please respond. Please respond.
UHURA: . No response, sir.
KIRK: Sensors, Captain?
SPOCK: Scanners and sensors still inoperative. There's no way to tell what's inside the station.
KIRK: And no way of knowing if Reliant is still in the area.
SPOCK: Affirmative, Admiral.
KIRK: ( with irony ) . Blind as a Tiberian Bat. What do you make of the plantoid Regula is class "D'. It consists of various remarkable ores. Essentially, a great rock in space.
SPOCK: Regula is class "D'. It consists of various remarkable ores. Essentially, a great rock in space.
KIRK: Reliant could be hiding behind that rock.
SPOCK: A distinct possibility.
KIRK: Engine room. Scotty, do we have enough power for the transporters?
SCOTTY'S VOICE: Just barely, sir.
KIRK: ( the decision ) I'm going down to the station.
BONES: Khan could be down there!
KIRK: He's BEEN there and hasn't found what he wants. Can you spare someone? There may be people I can spare me.
BONES: I can spare me.
SAAVIK: Begging the Admiral's pardon: General Order 15: 'No flag officer shall beam into a hazardous area without armed escort.'
KIRK: There is no such regulation.
KIRK: ( continuing ) All right, join the party. Mr. Spock, the ship is yours.
SPOCK: Aye sir
KIRK: Establish a parking orbit around the station and send me a complete damage report when you've talked with Mr. Scott.
SPOCK: Be careful, Jim.
KIRK: Hello.! Anybody here?
SAAVIK: ( raises tricorder ) Indeterminate life signs.
KIRK: Phasers on stun. Move out.
KIRK: ( stunned ) They even killed the galley chief.
BONES: This one looks like a Steward. They're not warm, but rigor hasn't set in. This didn't happen all that long ago, Jim.
KIRK: 117 INT. SPACE LAB DATA BANK 117
UHURA'S VOICE: ( on screen ) Admiral Kirk, Enterprise. Come in, please. Come in please.
KIRK: My God!
BONES: That's Clark Terrell, Jim, I've served with him.
BONES: ( continuing ) Brain disturbance. Appears to be drug induced.
KIRK: Saavik, for God's sake, tell her we're all right.
UHURA: I say again. This is Enterprise. Please acknowledge signal. Please
SAAVIK: ( on screen, hurried ) Commander Uhura, this is Lt. Saavik. We're all right. Please stand by. ( baffled ) Aye, aye.
UHURA: ( baffled ) Aye, aye.
CHEKOV: Oh, God, Admiral.!
BONES: It's Dr. McCoy, Captain. Do you remember me?
TERRELL: McCoy? Yes. Oh, yes.
CHEKOV: Oh, sir. It was Khan! We found him on Ceti Alpha V.
KIRK: Easy, Pavel. Tell me what you No life signs but he was there. Captured us. He he put creatures in our bodies. To control our minds.
CHEKOV: No life signs but he was there. Captured us. He he put creatures in our bodies. To control our minds.
BONES: It's all right, you're safe.
CHEKOV: . Made us say lies. Do. things. But we beat him. The Captain and me. He thought he controlled us, but he didn't . The Captain was strong.
KIRK: Captain. Where is Dr. Marcus? Where are the Genesis materials?
TERRELL: He couldn't find them. Some of the scientists were still here, but everything else, even the data banks were empty.
SAAVIK: That's true, Admiral. All the memory cells have been emptied.
KIRK: ( ponders ) He tortured those people. None of them would tell him anything. He went wild, strung them up and slit their throats. He wanted to tear the place apart, but he was late: he had to get back to Reliant in time to blow you to bits.
TERRELL: He tortured those people. None of them would tell him anything. He went wild, strung them up and slit their throats. He wanted to tear the place apart, but he was late: he had to get back to Reliant in time to blow you to bits.
KIRK: He came damn close.
CHEKOV: He left us. We were no longer of use.
SAAVIK: Where is the Reliant crew? Dead?
TERRELL: Marooned on Ceti Alpha V. He's completely mad, Admiral. He blames you for the death of his wife.
KIRK: I know what he blames me for. The escape pods are all in place. Where's the transporter room?
KIRK: Did he make it down here? It was not my impression. He spent most of his time trying to wring the information out of the people.
CHEKOV: It was not my impression. He spent most of his time trying to wring the information out of the people.
SAAVIK: Kirk looks at her over the rims of the glasses:
KIRK: Somebody left the unit on. If everyone else was dead, it implies that no one remained to turn it off. Those people back there bought escape time for Genesis with their lives.
SAAVIK: It doesn't make sense. These coordinates are well within Regula a plantoid we know to be lifeless and airless.
KIRK: ( wheels turn ) If Stage Two was completed, it was underground she said it was going to be underground.
SAAVIK: Stage Two of what?
KIRK: ( on communicator ) Kirk to Enterprise. Damage report, Admiral, if we go by the book, like Lieutenant Saavik, hours could seem like days.
SPOCK'S VOICE: Admiral, if we go by the book, like Lieutenant Saavik, hours could seem like days.
KIRK: ( beat ) I read you, Captain. Let's have it.
SPOCK'S VOICE: The situation is grave, Admiral. We won't have main power for six days at least. Auxiliary power has temporarily failed, but maybe we can restore that in two days. By the book, Admiral.
KIRK: Meaning you can't even beam us back?
SPOCK'S VOICE: Not at present.
KIRK: Captain Spock, if you do not hear from us within one hour your orders are to restore what power you can, take the Enterprise to the nearest Star Base and alert Starfleet command when you are out of jamming Sir we won't leave you behind.!
UHURA'S VOICE: Sir we won't leave you behind.!
KIRK: Uhura, if you don't hear from us, there won't be anybody behind. Kirk You gentleman can remain here, or.
TERRELL: If it's all the same, Admiral, we'd like to share the risk.
KIRK: ( hesitates ) Very well. Let's go.
BONES: ( points to console ) Where they went. Saavik.
KIRK: ( points to console ) Where they went. Saavik.
BONES: But what if they went nowhere?
KIRK: Then this will be your big chance to get away from it all.
SAAVIK: She presses a button, joins them on the pods. Slowly they VANISH.
SAAVIK: She indicates something O.S. They cross as CAMERA reveals a cave wall stacked with technical materials and crowned by a LARGE PROJECTILE, a giant version of the model we saw earlier. They stare. ( N.B. FEATURE
BONES: Genesis, I presume.
DAVID: You're the sonavabitch who committed mass murder up there.
KIRK: I'm Admiral Kirk.
DAVID: bastard! We could hear the screams all the way to the transporter room
KIRK: Where's Dr. Marcus
DAVID: I'm Doctor Marcus!
CAROL: Mother, go back!
DAVID: Mother, go back!
CAROL: Go back. I'm going to kill him.
DAVID: Go back. I'm going to kill him.
CAROL: ( takes a breath ) You do that and you'll have murdered your father.
TERRELL: ( cool ) I'll hold onto this.
CAROL: You've got a little grey
KIRK: Carol. Is that true?
KIRK: ( continuing ) Why didn't you tell me?
DAVID: She's making it up! My father was David, you're just making this I'm afraid it's even harder than you think, Doctor.
CAROL: David, you're just making this I'm afraid it's even harder than you think, Doctor.
TERRELL: I'm afraid it's even harder than you think, Doctor.
TERRELL: ( continuing ) Please don't move
KIRK: Chekov !
CHEKOV: I'm sorry, Admiral.
TERRELL: Your excellency, have you been I have indeed, Captain. You have done well.
KHAN'S VOICE: ( filtered ) I have indeed, Captain. You have done well.
DAVID: I knew it ! Don't move any of you!
TERRELL: Don't move any of you!
KHAN: Captain. We're waiting. What's the delay?
TERRELL: All is well, sir. You have the coordinates to beam up Genesis.
KHAN: First things first, Captain. Kill Admiral Kirk.
TERRELL: Excellency. it is difficult. I try to obey, but
KHAN'S VOICE: As though tearing off a leach, Terrell grabs at the wrist recorder and flings it to the ground. A shock- wave of pain hits Terrell. He recovers, trembling and tries to obey. Chekov is shaking badly. Terrell aims his phaser at Kirk. Chekov slowly raises his phaser and aims at Terrell, though his hands are like lead. We THINK Chekov is going to do the right thing. Then, shockingly: Terrell turns his phaser on himself.
KHAN'S VOICE: ( still emanates from Kill him, Terrell. Now.
KHAN'S VOICE: Terrell? Chekov !
BONES: Jim for God's sake!
KIRK: Khan, you bloodsucker, they're finished! You'll have to do your own dirty work now. Do you hear me? Do you?
KHAN: Kirk! Kirk, you are still alive my old friend.
KIRK: Still, 'old friend.' You've managed to kill just about everyone else, but like a poor marksman, you keep missing the target.
KHAN: ( ironic ) Perhaps I no longer need to try.
DAVID: Let go he can't !
SAAVIK: Only half of you would get there. Khan, you have Genesis, but you don't have me! You were going to kill me, Khan, it was your sole purpose. You'll have to come down here to do it! You'll have to come down!
KIRK: ( desperate ) Khan, you have Genesis, but you don't have me! You were going to kill me, Khan, it was your sole purpose. You'll have to come down here to do it! You'll have to come down!
KHAN'S VOICE: I've done far worse than kill you, Admiral. I've hurt you. And I wish to go on hurting you. I shall leave you, as you left me where no one will ever find you: poetic justice; marooned for eternity in the center of a dead planet buried alive.
KIRK: Khan !
KHAN: Goodbye, Admiral. Oh, and don't count on Enterprise. She can't move. My next act will be to blow her out of the heavens.
KIRK: 144 OMITTED 144 145 INT. RELIANT BRIDGE 145
KHAN!: 144 OMITTED 144 145 INT. RELIANT BRIDGE 145
KHAN: Warp drive still inoperative. All other systems should be restored
JOACHIM: Warp drive still inoperative. All other systems should be restored
KHAN: Excellent. We have all the time in the world.
SAAVIK: This is Lt. Saavik, calling Enterprise.
BONES: He's alive!
KIRK: Chekov tries to smile; Kirk takes his hand
SAAVIK: No use, Admiral, they're still jamming all channels.
BONES: ( looks across Chekov ) It wouldn't make any difference. If Enterprise obeyed orders she's long since gone. And if she couldn't obey, she's finished.
DAVID: So are we, it looks like.
CAROL: I don't understand. Who's responsible for all this? Who is Khan?
KIRK: It's a long story.
DAVID: We appear to have plenty of time.
BONES: ( dry ) You and your father can catch up on ( bitter ) My father. I hope you realize another man has just been killed because of.
DAVID: ( bitter ) My father. I hope you realize another man has just been killed because of.
BONES: Because of you, son. You shouldn't have tried to rush someone holding a primed phaser. Anyway it isn't one man dead, it's two, in case you've lost count.
KIRK: Do you have anything to eat? I don't know about anyone else, but I'm starved.
BONES: How can you think of food at a time like this?
KIRK: Our first order of business is survival.
CAROL: There's food in the Genesis cave, enough to last a lifetime should that be necessary.
BONES: We thought
CAROL: This? It took the Starfleet corps of engineers ten months in space suits to tunnel out all this. What we did in there we did in a day. David, why don't you show Dr. McCoy and the Lieutenant our idea of food.
DAVID: But we can't just sit here !
KIRK: ( unruffled ) Oh, yes we can. Is there really something to eat?
CAROL: David. Please.
DAVID: ( to Kirk ) This is just to give us something to do, isn't it? ( he shrugs ) Come on.
SAAVIK: As your teacher Mr. Spock is fond of saying: I like to think there always are possibilities.
KIRK: As your teacher Mr. Spock is fond of saying: I like to think there always are possibilities.
CAROL: David was right, wasn't he? It's just to keep them busy.
KIRK: Why? Why didn't you tell me?
CAROL: How can you ask me that? Were we together? Where we going to be? You had your world and I had mine. I wanted him in mine, not chasing through the universe with his father.
CAROL: ( continuing ) He's a lot like you in many ways. Nothing I could do about it. He's smarter, of course; that goes without saying. Most of Genesis is really
CAROL: ( continuing ) This is it, isn't it? We're never going to get out of here.
CAROL: ( continuing ) Please. Tell me what you're feeling.
KIRK: There's a man I haven't seen in fifteen years who thinks he's killed me. You show me a son who'd almost be happy to help him. My son. My life that could have been and wasn't. What am I feeling? I'm feeling old worn out.
CAROL: Let me show you something that will make you feel young young as when the world was new.
CAROL: ( continuing ) He'll be all right. Come.
KIRK: You did this in a day?!
CAROL: The matrix formed in a day. The life forms grew later at a wildly accelerated rate. Can I cook or can't I?
JOACHIM: Impulse power restored.
KHAN: More than a match for poor
JOACHIM: Departing dark side, Regula.
KHAN: 156 ON SCREEN 156
KHAN: Where IS she?
DAVID: What are you looking at?
SAAVIK: The Admiral's son.
DAVID: Don't you believe it.
SAAVIK: Oh, I believe it.
SAAVIK: ( continuing ) What are you looking at?
DAVID: ( confused ) I don't know.
KIRK: Now that's what I call a meal.
BONES: It's like the Garden of Eden.
CAROL: Only here, every apple comes from the Tree of Knowledge.
KIRK: What's on your mind, Lieutenant?
SAAVIK: The what?
DAVID: The what?
BONES: The no-win scenario and with what philosophy a commander faces Are you asking me if we are playing out that scenario now, Lieutenant?
KIRK: Are you asking me if we are playing out that scenario now, Lieutenant?
SAAVIK: On the test, sir, will you tell me what you did? I'd really like to
BONES: Lieutenant, you are looking at the only Starfleet cadet who ever beat the no-win scenario
KIRK: And almost got tossed out of the
SAAVIK: I reprogrammed the simulation so it was possible to rescue the ship.
KIRK: I reprogrammed the simulation so it was possible to rescue the ship.
SAAVIK: I changed the conditions of the test. I received a commendation for original thinking. I don't like to lose.
WHAT?: I changed the conditions of the test. I received a commendation for original thinking. I don't like to lose.
KIRK: I changed the conditions of the test. I received a commendation for original thinking. I don't like to lose.
SAAVIK: Then you never faced that situation faced death.
BONES: Until now.
KIRK: We each face death every day we're alive, Saavik.
KIRK: ( continuing ) Spock, this is Kirk. It's two hours. Are you about ready?
SPOCK'S VOICE: Right on schedule, Admiral. Just give us your coordinates and we'll beam you aboard.
KIRK: Right. I don't like to lose.
SAAVIK: But the damage report we were Come, come, Lieutenant, you of all people go by the book. Hello, Spock. You remember Dr. Marcus.
KIRK: Come, come, Lieutenant, you of all people go by the book. Hello, Spock. You remember Dr. Marcus.
SPOCK: ( overlapping ) By the book.
SAAVIK: ( overlapping ) By the book.
KIRK: Regulation 46-A: 'If transmissions are being monitored during battle.'
SAAVIK: '. no uncoded messages on an open
SAAVIK: ( continuing ) You lied.
SPOCK: I exaggerated.
KIRK: Hours instead of days, Saavik; now we have minutes instead of hours
BONES: ( behind ) I'm taking this bunch to sick bay.
SPOCK: They're inoperative below C-deck.
KIRK: What IS working around here?
SPOCK: Not much, Admiral. We have partial main power.
KIRK: That's it?
SPOCK: Best we could do in two hours.
SULU: ( overjoyed ) Admiral on the bridge
KIRK: Battle stations.
KIRK: ( continuing )
KIRK: ( continuing ) Uh oh.
SPOCK: She can out-run us and out-gun us. But there is the Mutara Nebula at 153 mark four.
KIRK: ( studies his console ) Scotty, can we make it inside?
SCOTTY: The energizer's bypassed like a Christmas tree so don't give me too many bumps.
KIRK: No promises, Mr. Scott. On your way.
SAAVIK: Trouble with the nebula, sir, is all that static discharge and gas clouds our tactical display. Visuals won't function and shields will be useless.
SPOCK: What's sauce for the goose, Mr. Saavik. The odds will be even.
DAVID: I'm going up there.
BONES: You'll be in the way, Dr. Marcus. best stay here.
SAAVIK: Admiral. what happens if Reliant fails to follow us into the nebula?
SPOCK: I think we can guarantee she'll follow us, Mr. Saavik. Remind me to explain to you the concept of human ego.
KIRK: Best speed, Scotty.
KHAN: There! Full impulse power! Not so wounded as we were led to believe so much the better.
SPOCK: Estimating nebula penetration in two minutes. Reliant is Steady as you go.
KIRK: Steady as you go.
JOACHIM: We'll lose them if they go in there.
KHAN: Rake her.
BONES: Take it easy
CHEKOV: But I must
BONES: Listen to me, Pavel; you haven't the strength or the equilibrium
CHEKOV: As they talk, David, unnoticed, leaves the area. The Enterprise is buffeted again
CAROL: Dr. McCoy, I can't just sit here. Tell me what I can do.
BONES: ( grim ) You can help get my surgery squared away. I'm expecting customers.
SAAVIK: That was close
KIRK: ( unfazed ) They just don't want us going in there.
SPOCK: One minute to nebula perimeter.
SPOCK: ( continuing ) Admiral, they're reducing speed.
KIRK: Uhura, patch me in
UHURA: Aye, sir.
KHAN: Why are we slowing?
JOACHIM: We daren't follow them into the nebula, sir our shields will be This is Admiral Kirk.
KIRK'S VOICE: This is Admiral Kirk.
KIRK'S VOICE: ( continuing ) We tried it once your way, Khan. Are you game for a rematch?
KIRK'S VOICE: ( continuing ) Khan ! I'm laughing at the "superior" intellect.
KHAN: Full impulse power!
JOACHIM: No sir! We have Genesis Whatever you want
KHAN: And he reaches across and executes it himself.
KIRK: ( dry ) I'll say this for him: he's
SPOCK: ( timing ) And we're. in.
KHAN: ( tries ) Raise the shields.
JOACHIM: ( tries ) Raise the shields.
KHAN: Raise the shields.
JOACHIM: As I feared, sir. Not functional. I'm reducing speed.
SULU: Phaser lock inoperative, sir.
KIRK: Best guess, Mr. Sulu. Fire when
KHAN: Aft-torpedoes fire !
KIRK: ( sweating ) Hold your course. Look sharp.
SAAVIK: At what.
KIRK: Evasive starboard!
KIRK: Phaser bank one, fire!
KHAN: For the first time, his friend wounded, Khan hesitates, holds him
JOACHIM: Yours. is. the superior.
KHAN: I shall avenge you
KIRK: Damage, Scotty?
SCOTTY: Admiral, I've got to take the mains off the line. The energizer's shaken loose and I can't get in there to fix her radiation
KIRK: All right, we'll do the job with auxiliary power.
CHEKOV: Could you use another hand, Admiral?
KIRK: Man the weapons console, Mr. Chekov.
KIRK: ( continuing )
SPOCK: Sporadic energy readings port side, aft. Could be an impulse turn.
KIRK: He won't break off now. If he followed me this far he'll be back. But from where.?
SPOCK: He's intelligent, but not experienced. His pattern indicates two dimensional
KIRK: Mr. Saavik, all stop.
SAAVIK: All stop, sir.
KIRK: Descend ten thousand meters. Stand by photon torpedoes.
KHAN: Where is he? Where in God's name is he?
CHEKOV: Torpedoes ready, sir.
KIRK: 210 SERIES OF SHOTS 210
KIRK: Cease fire. Look sharp.
SAAVIK: Power levels quite low, sir.
KIRK: ( to intercom ) Mr. Scott, can you get the mains back on line?
SCOTTY'S VOICE: ( breaking up slightly ) I'll need ten minutes, sir, 'til the radiation dissipates.
KIRK: Uhura, send to Commander, Reliant: prepare to be boarded.
UHURA: Aye, sir.
UHURA'S VOICE: Commander, Reliant, this is Enterprise. Surrender and prepare to be boarded. Repeat.
KHAN: No. Kirk. The game's not over.
KHAN: ( continuing ) To the last I will grapple with thee!
UHURA: Enterprise to Reliant: you are ordered to surrender your vessel. Nothing, sir.
KIRK: We'll beam aboard. Alert transporter room
SPOCK: Admiral. Scanning an energy source on Reliant. A pattern I've never
DAVID: It's the Genesis Wave!
KIRK: He's on a build up to detonation!
DAVID: He's on a build up to detonation!
KIRK: How soon
DAVID: We encoded four minutes
KIRK: We'll beam aboard and stop it
DAVID: You can't!
KIRK: Scotty, I need warp speed in three minutes or we're all dead!
KIRK: ( continuing )
KIRK: ( continuing ) Saavik, get us out, best speed!
SAAVIK: Aye, sir.
KHAN: No. You can't get away. From hell's heart I stab at thee. For hate's sake. I spit my last breath at thee!
BONES: Are you out of your Vulcan mind? No human can tolerate the radiation loose in there!
SPOCK: But, as you are so fond of observing, Doctor, I'm not human.
BONES: You're not going in there !
SPOCK: I'm afraid I can't stop to discuss this logically
SCOTTY: ( in horror ) Spock get out of there!
KIRK: Time from my mark.
SAAVIK: Two minutes, ten seconds.
KIRK: ( intercom ) Engine room! What's happening?!
REQUIRED ): Outside the glass, Scotty and Bones screaming:
SCOTTY: Captain, please!
BONES: Get out! Get out, man! Oh, dear
KIRK: Three minutes, thirty seconds.
SAAVIK: Three minutes, thirty seconds.
KIRK: Distance from Reliant.
CHEKOV: Four hundred kilometers.
CADET: Sir! The mains are back on line !
KIRK: Bless you, Scotty. Go, Saavik!
KIRK: Reduce speed. My God, Carl. Look at it.
KIRK: ( continuing, on Engine Room. Well done. Scotty?
BONES' VOICE: ( after a beat ) Jim, you'd better get down here. Hurry.
KIRK: Saavik, take the con.
SCOTTY: No, sir! You'll flood the whole He'll die !
KIRK: He'll die !
BONES: ( also holds him ) He's dead already, Jim.
KIRK: Oh, God.
KIRK: The ship out of danger?
SPOCK: The ship out of danger?
KIRK: Spock is satisfied; he fights for breath
SPOCK: Don't grieve, Admiral it's logical: the good of the many
KIRK: . the good of the few.
SPOCK: Or the one.
SPOCK: ( continuing ) I never took the Kobayashi Maru test until now. What do you think of my solution?
KIRK: I have been and always will be your friend. Live. Long. And.
SPOCK: I have been and always will be your friend. Live. Long. And.
KIRK: SAAVIK'S VOICE ( intercom )
SAAVIK'S VOICE: ( intercom ) Admiral, you've got to see this! There's new life a whole new world, a Genesis world !
KIRK: In accordance with the traditions of Starfleet and of Article 184 Starfleet Regulations, we are assembled here today to pay final respects to our honored dead.
KIRK: ( continuing ) And yet, in the midst of our sorrow it should be noted that this death takes place in the shadow of new life, the sunrise of a new world, a world that our beloved comrade gave his own life to protect and nourish. He did not feel that sacrifice a vain or empty one and we will not debate his profound wisdom, in these proceedings. Of my friend, I can only say this, that of all the souls I have encountered in my travels, his was the most ( he falters )
KIRK: ( continuing ) Lieutenant Saavik.
SAAVIK: We commend the soul of our brother departed. We love we commit his body to the depths of space.
SULU: Honors hup!
SULU: Return hup!
KIRK: She steps to him and they exchange salutes
KIRK: ( continuing; very After you dismiss the company, you will take the watch. Set course for Ceti Alpha V and we'll pick up Aye, sir.
SAAVIK: Aye, sir.
KIRK: I'll be in my quarters if needed, but I would prefer.
SAAVIK: Understood, sir.
KIRK: ( aloud ) Dismiss the company.
KIRK: Yes. come.
DAVID: I don't mean to intrude.
KIRK: Uh, no. I should be on the bridge.
DAVID: Are you running away from me?
KIRK: I suppose I was. I poured a drink. Would you like No. I I guess I'm not what you I didn't expect anything.
DAVID: No. I I guess I'm not what you I didn't expect anything.
KIRK: ( rueful ) I didn't expect anything.
DAVID: That makes two of us. Lieutenant Saavik was right: you never have faced death
KIRK: ( hoarse ) Not like this no. I haven't faced death, I cheated death. I tricked my way out of death and patted myself on the back for my ingenuity. I know nothing.
DAVID: You knew enough to tell Saavik that how we face death is at least as important as how we face life
KIRK: It was just words.
DAVID: But good words. That's where ideas begin. Maybe you should listen to I'm trying, David.
KIRK: I'm trying, David.
DAVID: So am I. My friends were killed, I am truly sorry.
KIRK: I am truly sorry.
DAVID: I was wrong about you. And Is that what you came here to say?
KIRK: Is that what you came here to say?
DAVID: ( he starts out, And also that I'm proud very proud to be your son.
SAAVIK: Admiral on the bridge!
KIRK: As you were, Mr. Saavik.
SAAVIK: Aye, sir. On course to Ceti Alpha. All is well.
KIRK: Good, I believe you already know my, uh, son
KIRK: ( continuing ) Yes, well, why don't you show him around and.
SAAVIK: Aye, sir
SAAVIK: ( continuing ) So you turn out to be the dumb
SAAVIK: ( continuing ) That is a little joke. She's changed her hair again. ( pause ) Will you look at that? Think they'll name it for you, Doctor?
BONES: She's changed her hair again. Will you look at that? Think they'll name it for you, Doctor?
CAROL: Not if I can help it. We'll name it for our friend.
KIRK: ( quietly ) It is a far far better thing I do than I have ever done before. a far better resting place I go to than I have ever known.
CAROL: ( soft ) Is that a poem?
KIRK: Something Spock was trying to tell me. On my birthday.
BONES: You okay, Jim? How do you feel?
KIRK: ( considers; smiles ) Young. I feel young, Doctor.
KIRK: ( continuing ) Lieutenant, new course: 'Second star to the right and straight on till morning.'
SPOCK'S VOICE: Space, the final frontier. These are the continuing voyages of the Starship Enterprise. Her ongoing mission: to explore strange new worlds. to seek out new life and new civilizations. To boldly go where no man has gone before.
THE END: Writers : Jack B Sowards Harve Bennett
