THE STING: FADE IN: A white on black TITLE appears in the lower left hand corner of the screen:
AUGUST, 1936: FADE OUT. FADE IN: EXT. A SLUM AREA OF JOLIET - DAY It's a bleak, windy morning, the kind that clears the streets of all but the winos ( who carry their own heaters ), and the point-men for juvenile gangs. We pick up a solitary figure, Joe Mottola, coming down the street and entering what appears to be an abandoned tenement. He pauses a second to dust his white-winged alligator shoes on the back of his pants leg. Sharply dressed and surrounded by the aura of one who is making money for the first time and broadcasting it on all bands, he seems an incongruity in this part of town. We follow him up a flight of rickety stairs to a second floor flat. He knocks on the door, is admitted by a cautious INT. NUMBERS SPOT - DAY Suddenly we are plunged into a room of chattering, clamoring people. This is a spot for the numbers racket, a place immune from legal interference, where any sucker can bet on a number between 1 and 1000 in the hope of getting the 600 to 1 payoff that goes to those few who guess right. The bettors are queued up in several lines before a long table, where they place their bets and are given receipts in return. Others wait at a cashier's window to pick up previous earnings or to ask for credit. Mottola moves through the crowd to a back room where betting slips are being sorted and money counted under the watchful and somewhat impatient gaze of a Supervisor, an older man named Mr. Granger. The Yankee-White Sox game is heard on the radio in the background. Mottola, noticing that his entrance has aroused little interest, saunters over to the Phone Girl and gives her a little pinch on the cheek. The girl slaps his hand away, obviously having been through this before.
PHONE GIRL: Beat it, Mottola. Granger glances up and exchanges a token nod with Mottola, who plops down in a folding chair next to the radio. The phone rings.
PHONE GIRL: 8720.Yes, hold on a second. Mr. Granger, Chicago on the line. Granger is a little apprehensive about talking to Chicago, but takes the phone anyway.
GRANGER: CUT TO: INT. A WATERFRONT PROCESSING PLANT - CHICAGO - DAY A flabby, bald man named Combs is on the other end of the line. Visible beyond the door and interior window of his office is a large room, cluttered with tables, typewriters, clerks and adding machines. This room is the clearinghouse for all the transaction of the numbers game. All the betting slips and income from the spots are brought in here and processed.
COMBS: Granger, this is Combs. Why haven't we heard from ya? Everybody else is in.
GRANGER: We had a few problems with the Law this morning. The Mayor promised the Jaycees to get tough on the rackets again, so he shut everybody down for a couple hours to make it look good. Nothing serious, it just put us a little behind for the You been making your payoffs, haven't ya?
COMBS: You been making your payoffs, haven't ya?
GRANGER: Hell yes. He does this every year. There's nothing to worry about.
COMBS: Okay, finish your count and get it up here as soon as you can. I don't wanta be here all night.
GRANGER: Believe me, the Man's gonna be real happy. Looks like we cleared over ten grand this week.
COMBS: ( not impressed ) We cleared 22 here.
GRANGER: Well, hell, you got the whole Chicago south side. How do ya expect the eight lousy spots I've got to compete with that?
COMBS: ( reading off a sheet of paper on his desk ) They did 14 grand in Evanston, 16.5 is Gary, and 20 in Cicero. Looks like you're bringing up the rear, INT. NUMBERS SPOT - DAY Granger burns inside. One of the girls who's been sorting and counting hands him a slip of paper.
GRANGER: I just got the count. We'll put the take on the 4:15.
COMBS: We'll be waitin'. Combs hangs up, smiling to himself, proud of the way he gave the needle to Granger.
GRANGER: ( snapping ) Mottola hustles out of his chair.
GRANGER: ( handing him a bundle of bills ) Take this up to the city on the 4:15. They'll be waitin' for it at the clearing house. And don't stop for no drinks. You can get a cab down the street. Mottola takes the money and slips it into his inside coat pocket with all the dramatic flair of the true flunky. No one would ever guess that he was just an overdressed messenger boy.
THIEF: ( shaking his fist at the stranger ) You fuckin' nigger-lover. I'll get you for this someday, sucker egg. Mottola and the stranger exchange glances of relief as the thief flees out onto the street and disappears. The black man, meanwhile, has struggled to his feet and is staggering toward them. He collapses against the alley wall after a few steps. The stranger rushes over to him, followed somewhat absently by Mottola.
BLACK MAN: The wallet. You gotta go after him. He's got all the money.
STRANGER: Don't worry, we got the wallet. What happened? He get ya with the The stranger opens the Black Man's coat to reveal a bloody wound at the top of his leg.
BLACK MAN: ( trying to move ) Give it to me! Please. I gotta know it's all there!
STRANGER: You just sit tight, old man. We're gonna have to get you to a doctor. I'll call a cop.
BLACK MAN: No, no cops! Mottola has given him his wallet, which the black man now opens, disclosing a fat bundle of bills tied by a rubber band. Mottola and the stranger are amazed by the amount of You wanted by the law or somethin'?
STRANGER: ( a little uneasy ) You wanted by the law or somethin'?
BLACK MAN: Naw, it's okay.
STRANGER: You're crazy carryin' that kinda money in this neighborhood. No wonder you got hit.
BLACK MAN: ( trying to get to his feet ) Thanks. I'm obliged to ya, but I gotta get goin'. ( his leg gives way under him )
STRANGER: You ain't goin' nowhere on that leg.
BLACK MAN: I gotta! Look, I run some slots down in West Bend for a mob here. I got a little behind on my payoffs so they figure I been holdin' out on 'em. They gave me to 4:00 to come up with the cash. I don't get it there I'm dead.
STRANGER: It don't look good, gramps, it's ten of now.
BLACK MAN: I got a hundred bucks for you and your friend if you deliver the money for me.
STRANGER: ( hesitates ) I dunno. That little mug that got ya is mad enough at me already what if he's out there waitin' around a corner with some friends.
BLACK MAN: He won't know you're carryin' it. C'mon, you gotta help me out.
STRANGER: ( makes up his mind ) Sorry, pal. I'll fix you up, call you a doc, but I ain't gonna walk into a bunch of knives for ya.
BLACK MAN: ( desperate to Mottola ) How bout you? I'll give you the whole hundred!
STRANGER: What makes you think you can trust him? He didn't do shit.
MOTTOLA: Hey, butt out, chicken liver. I gave him back his wallet, didn't I? How far is this place?
BLACK MAN: 1811 Mason. Put it in Box 3C. You won't have no trouble. There's five thousand dollars there and here's a hundred for you.
MOTTOLA: ( taking the bundle of bills from the black man, plus the $100 bill ) All right. I'll make your drop for you, old man. And don't worry, you can trust me. Mottola puts the bills in his inside coat pocket, right next to the numbers money. The stranger, who has now finished bandaging, watches him do it.
STRANGER: If that punk and his pals decide to search ya, you'll never fool 'em carryin' it there.
BLACK MAN: ( suddenly afraid again ) What do we do?
STRANGER: You got a bag or somethin?
BLACK MAN: How 'bout a handkerchief?
STRANGER: How 'bout a handkerchief?
BLACK MAN: The stranger goes into the right coat pocket and pulls out a wrinkled handkerchief.
STRANGER: Let me have the money. Mottola takes out the Black Man's five grand and hands it to the Stranger. He puts it in the handkerchief.
STRANGER: You better stick that other in here too, if you wanta keep it.
BLACK MAN: ( pleading ) Just hurry, will ya. Mottola pulls out the numbers money and puts it in the handkerchief too. The stranger ties it all up.
STRANGER: ( demonstrating by slipping the bundle down into crotch ) All right. Carry it down in your pants here. ( pulling it back out and tucking it in Mottola's pants ) Ain't no hard guy in the world gonna frisk ya there.
MOTTOLA: ( to the black man ) So long, partner. Don't worry, everything's gonna be all right. The Black Man nods gratefully, but there's still a trace of worry on his face. Mottola trots off down the alley and out onto the street, glancing around cautiously for signs of trouble. He walks hurriedly down the sidewalk toward the cab stand in the distance. Suddenly the little man with the knife appears out of a doorway about 15 yards behind him. Mottola notices him and quickens his pace, finally breaking into a dead run. We follow him as he dashes headlong down the street, opening a big lead on the guy with the knife. He reaches the taxi zone. He hops in a cab and slams the door.
CABBIE: Where to?
MOTTOLA: Which way is Mason?
CABBIE: About 20 blocks south.
MOTTOLA: Okay, go north. The Joliet Station Fast.
CABBIE: What's so funny?
MOTTOLA: I just made the world's easiest five grand. He takes the bundle out from inside his pants in order to gaze upon his new-found fortune. He unties the handkerchief. It's full of toilet paper. Mottola looks like he's just been shot.
BLACK MAN: Jesus, what a bundle. Did you know he was that loaded?
STRANGER: Hell no, I just cut into him. I woulda settled for pawning one of them shoes. As they split off, music begins, and we go into a
TITLES SEQUENCE: Done to a driving Chicago blues, the sequence is designed to establish somewhat the milieu of the stranger, known to friends and enemies alike as Hooker. We see the following:
HOOKER: ( singing ) 'With plenty of money and you-oo- Oh baby, what I wouldn't do-oo- ON THE STREET AGAIN jauntily carrying a magnum of champagne and some flowers, obviously on his way to see someone special.
CRYSTAL: ( tired ) Hi, Hooker, you gettin' married or Come into a little dough. You wanna get outa here tonight?
HOOKER: Come into a little dough. You wanna get outa here tonight?
CRYSTAL: Can't. I got a 10 o'clock show. I need the five bucks.
HOOKER: I'll spend fifty on ya. Crystal looks at him a second and starts to giggle. We're pretty sure she's gonna get outa here tonight.
JIMMY: ( glad to see him ) How ya doin', Jimmy.
HOOKER: How ya doin', Jimmy.
JIMMY: ( collecting bets and paying off the winners ) Ain't seen you in months, boy. Thought maybe you took a fall.
HOOKER: Naw, just a little hard times, that's all. It's all over now.
JIMMY: You gonna have a go here? How 'bout a ten spot on the line here. The 4-9 been lookin' good today. Lotsa action on 28th Street down there, too. Pay ya 10-1. As Jimmy finishes his spiel, he starts the wheel spinning and drops in the ball. Betting is allowed to continue until the ball drops from the outer ring into the center.
HOOKER: ( taking out his wallet ) Three grand on the black. Jimmy is stunned. The others at the table, used to dollar bets, look at Hooker like he's some kind of foreign dignitary.
JIMMY: ( worried ) You sure you wanna start off that big? Bet like that could put a real dent in us.
HOOKER: I feel lucky tonight.
JIMMY: Aw, come on, Hooker, why don't you Three grand on the black, Jimmy. Jimmy wants to argue some more, but the ball is getting ready to drop into the center. We see Jimmy quickly press a hidden lever under the table with his foot. The ball falls and settles into red 27 with a motion that is not quite right. The others at the table fail to notice, but Hooker is not fooled. He stares venomously at Jimmy, who knows that Hooker is on to him.
HOOKER: Three grand on the black, Jimmy. Jimmy wants to argue some more, but the ball is getting ready to drop into the center. We see Jimmy quickly press a hidden lever under the table with his foot. The ball falls and settles into red 27 with a motion that is not quite right. The others at the table fail to notice, but Hooker is not fooled. He stares venomously at Jimmy, who knows that Hooker is on to him.
JIMMY: Sorry, Hooker. Good thing that ball came up red. Guy could get in trouble around here, losin' a bet that big. Jimmy reaches for Hooker's money. Hooker stops him by putting his hand on it.
HOOKER: Spin it again. Jimmy doesn't know what the hell to do. He gives Hooker a little head motion to indicate a small window high up in one of the walls. Behind it, we see a pair of eyes. Suddenly, Hooker understands why Jimmy had to cheat him, but it doesn't change his demand.
HOOKER: Spin it anyway, Jimmy. Jimmy is beside himself. If he doesn't spin again, Hooker may expose him. If he does spin, and loses, his management will fire him. He pleads to Hooker with his eyes, but it's no use. Jimmy spins the wheel and reluctantly drops in the ball. This time there is no foot on the lever, and it settles into black 15. Hooker stares at the ball a second and then looks up at his terrified friend.
HOOKER: Don't worry, pal. I knew it was my Hooker pushes the money over to Jimmy and walks out of the room. He's lost $3,000, but he's still working on a lucky EXT. GAMBLING JOINT Hooker and Crystal out on the street.
CRYSTAL: ( irritated ) Thanks for the evening, Hooker. I can still make the 10 o'clock. If you wanna spend 50 bucks on me again, mail it. She walks off down the street.
HOOKER: ( going into his pocket for more money ) Hey wait a minute. ( he comes up with 30 ) Aw, the hell with ya.
GREER: They found Mottola. He was drunk in a dive in Joliet. Never got on the train.
COMBS: ( aggravated ) I don't wanta hear about his day, Greer. What happened to the money?
GREER: He lost it to a coupla con artists on his way outa the spot.
COMBS: How much?
GREER: Twelve thousand. Combs sits in quiet thought for a second. Finally:
COMBS: All right. Better get on the phone to New York. See what the big mick wants to do about it. I gotta pretty good idea, though.
FLOYD: Doyle, can I see you a minute?
LONNEGAN: ( not looking up from the table ) I'm busy, Floyd.
FLOYD: It's important. We had a little trouble in Chicago today. One of our runners got hit for 12 grand.
LONNEGAN: ( calmly ) Which one?
FLOYD: You sure he didn't just pocket it?
LONNEGAN: You sure he didn't just pocket it?
FLOYD: No, we checked his story with a tipster. He was cleaned by two grifters on 47th.
LONNEGAN: They workin' for anybody?
FLOYD: I don't know. Could be. We're runnin' that down now.
LONNEGAN: All right, mark Mottola up a little and put him on a bus. Nothin' fancy, just enough to keep him from coming back. Get some local people to take care of the other two. We gotta discourage this kinda thing.
HOOKER: Howdy, Louise.
LOUISE: ( admiring Hooker in his suit ) Goddamn, Johnny Hooker, you're a sharp hunky in them linens. If you wasn't so pale, I'da sworn you had Hooker steps inside and walks right into a big hug from an older black woman, Alva. Alva has a hat on, obviously just about to go out. Beyond her we see the Eirie kid and the Black Man ( known from here on as Luther Coleman ) playing a game of mah jong on the dining table with a man whose back is to us. An 11-year-old boy is listening to the radio.
COLEMAN: Turn that down, Leroy.
ALVA: Oh, Johnny, Luther said you was somethin' to see today.
HOOKER: I'll never be as good as that mark, Well, we gonna hear all about it when we get back from church. Leroy, get your jacket on, boy. Leroy goes to get his jacket. Louise is finished putting the baby to bed.
ALVA: Well, we gonna hear all about it when we get back from church. Leroy, get your jacket on, boy. Leroy goes to get his jacket. Louise is finished putting the baby to bed.
HOOKER: You goin' to church now?
ALVA: They been havin' late bingo down there. I'm gonna call on the Lord for a little cash, while he's still payin' off. Luther, you look in on that child from time to time, will Luther nods that he will. Alva, Leroy and Louise leave for church as Hooker strolls over and tosses two packets on the table. Luther doesn't pick his up, but the other man does. We now see that he is the thief in the opening sequence. He is called the Eirie kid and he is delighted at his share.
EIRIE KID: Hey, Luther told me he was carrying a wad, but I didn't figure this much.
HOOKER: Which way did he do, Eirie?
EIRIE KID: Straight north. He was gonna take it all and run.
HOOKER: ( laughs ) The bastard. He can blow his nose all the way. They laugh again, but Luther doesn't share their enthusiasm. He watches Hooker who becomes uncomfortable under his gaze.
COLEMAN: You're late. Where you been?
HOOKER: ( flopping into a chair ) I had some appointments.
COLEMAN: ( not fooled ) How much did ya lose?
HOOKER: ( after a pause ) All of it.
COLEMAN: ( pissed ) In one goddamn night? What are ya sprayin' money around like that for? You coulda been nailed.
HOOKER: I checked the place out. There weren't no dicks in there.
COLEMAN: You're a con man, and you blew it like a pimp. I didn't teach ya to be no pimp.
HOOKER: What's eatin' you? I've blown money before.
COLEMAN: No class grifter woulda' done it, that's all.
HOOKER: You think my play is bad?
COLEMAN: I think it's the best. Hooker sinks back, embarrassed that he misread Coleman's .It's the only reason I ain't quit before now.
COLEMAN: .It's the only reason I ain't quit before now.
HOOKER: ( bewildered ) I'm gettin' too slow for this racket. I done the best I'm gonna do. You hang on too long, you start embarrassin' yourself.
COLEMAN: I'm gettin' too slow for this racket. I done the best I'm gonna do. You hang on too long, you start embarrassin' yourself.
HOOKER: What are you talkin' about? We just took off the biggest score we've ever had. We can do anything we want now.
COLEMAN: It's nothin' compared to what you could be makin' on the Big Con. You're wastin' your time workin' street marks.
HOOKER: Hey look. You think I'm gonna run out on ya or somethin'? Just cause we hit it big. Luther, I owe you everything. If you hadn't taught me con, I wouldn't know nothin'.
COLEMAN: ( a little embarrassed ) Aw hell, you sound like some goddamn sucker. You know everything I know. You got nothin' more to learn from me.
HOOKER: But you played the Big Con. You said it was nothin'. A game for flakes and mama's boys.
COLEMAN: And I'm tellin' ya now, you're a fool if you don't get into it. A bigger fool than I was. I been lookin' for this one all my life, Johnny. Now I got a chance to step out at the top. Hooker knows it's no use.
HOOKER: ( after a long silence ) What the hell you gonna do with Aw, I got a brother down in K.C., runs a freight outlet. I can go halfsies with 'em! It ain't too exciting, but it's mostly legal. Hooker just nods.
COLEMAN: Aw, I got a brother down in K.C., runs a freight outlet. I can go halfsies with 'em! It ain't too exciting, but it's mostly legal. Hooker just nods.
COLEMAN: Straighten up, kid. I wouldn't turn ya out if ya weren't ready. I got a guy named Henry Gondorff I want you to look up. There ain't a better insideman alive. He'll teach ya everything ya gotta know.
HOOKER: You'll take a cut of what I make, won't ya?
COLEMAN: I'm out, Johnny.
HOOKER: If that's the way you want it.
COLEMAN: That's the way I want it.
HOOKER: How do you like that Coleman, huh? After three years.
EIRIE KID: Aw come on, it was the only thing to do. He knew he was holdin' ya We were partners. If it weren't for Luther I'd still be hustlin' pinball down at Gianelli's. I don't need anything more than I got.
HOOKER: We were partners. If it weren't for Luther I'd still be hustlin' pinball down at Gianelli's. I don't need anything more than I got.
HOOKER: You ain't gonna have nothin' if you don't lay off them games of chance. There's a depression on ya know.
HOOKER: There's always a depression on.
EIRIE KID: If you saved a little, you wouldn't have to grift so much.
HOOKER: I like griftin'.
EIRIE KID: You could buy yourself some things. Clothes, or a nice car.
HOOKER: I don't look any good in clothes and I don't know how to drive. What else ya got to sell, Eirie?
EIRIE KID: Forget it. They walk on a few more feet, when suddenly a police car pulls up alongside them and two men jump out. The first, a uniformed policeman, grabs Eirie around the neck. Hooker makes a break for it, but the second Figure, a burly detective named Snyder, tackles him in the middle of the street, drags him back into the alley and plasters him up against a brick wall. The two have met before.
HOOKER: Hi there, Snyder. Things a little slow down at the Bunco Department tonight, eh? Somebody lose the You scored blood money today, Hooker. You need a friend.
SNYDER: You scored blood money today, Hooker. You need a friend.
HOOKER: ( knocking Snyder's hand away ) Aw, find yourself a shoplifter to Snyder gives Hooker a swift knee in the thigh and follows it with an elbow across the head. Hooker flies into a row of boxes and garbage cans.
HOOKER: ( getting up slowly ) You got the wrong guy, pal. I been home with the flu all day. ( rising to a fuller height ) You can stake out my toilet if you Bang. Snyder, infuriated by Hooker's irreverence, slams him to the ground again. The policeman is no longer holding Eirie but is almost daring him to make a move. Eirie wants to go to Hooker's aid, but he knows the policeman will beat him to a pulp.
SNYDER: ( pulling Hooker out of the heap and smashing him against the wall again ) I'll tell ya what you did, smart boy. You tied into a loaded mark on 47th across from Maxies. You and Coleman played the switch for him and blew him off to a cab on 49th. If he hadn't been a numbers runner for Doyle Lonnegan, it woulda been perfect.
HOOKER: ( startled by the information ) You're crazy. I'm not stupid enough to play for rackets money.
SNYDER: Not intentionally maybe, but that don't make no difference to Lonnegan. He'll swat you like any fly.
HOOKER: I'll square it with the fixer.
SNYDER: Nobody can buy you a prayer, if I put the finger on ya. Snyder lets go. Hooker sinks back against the wall. He says nothing; he's waiting for the price.
SNYDER: I figure your end of the score was at least 3 gees. I want 2 no matter what it was.
HOOKER: ( lying ) My end was only one.
SNYDER: ( not taking the fake ) Then you'll have to come up with another grand somewhere. Hooker is beat and he knows it.
HOOKER: All right. He reaches into his coat, pulls out a stack of bills and counts out $2000 to Snyder. Eirie looks on in amazement; he didn't think Hooker had it.
SNYDER: ( pocketing the money and motioning his partner to put his gun away ) You're a smart egg, Hooker. No use dyin' for 2 grand. Snyder and his policeman friend get in their car and start down the street. Hooker and Eirie walk nonchalantly in the other direction.
EIRIE KID: I thought you blew all your money.
HOOKER: I did. That stuff I gave him was counterfeit. They'll pinch him the first place he tries to spend it. Snyder and his partner disappear around a corner. Hooker suddenly takes off like a shot.
EIRIE KID: ( standing outside the booth ) What the hell you gonna do when Snyder rushes his finger right to Lonnegan? You're committin' suicide, kid.
HOOKER: ( waiting for the ring ) Aw Christ, it doesn't make no difference now. If Snyder knows about it so does everybody else. He never gets anything first.Damn, there's no answer at Luther's.
EIRIE KID: Listen to me, Hooker. What ever you do, don't go back to your place tonight, don't go anyplace you usually go, ya hear me? Get outa town or somethin', but. Hooker, still getting no answer, slams the phone down and blasts out of the booth.
HOOKER: ( shaking the body ) C'mon Luther, get up. You gotta get up, Luther. In the distance, sirens are heard. Heads are out of the windows and some people are starting to gather in the Goddamn you, Luther, will you get ( pounding on the body ) I'm not waitin' for you, Luther. I'm not waitin' anymore. Get up, you son of a bitch. Goddamn you, Luther, goddamn. The sirens are close now, and Hooker tears himself away from Luther and runs. The others gather to look at the body.
HOOKER: ( flashing open his wallet to reveal the little tin badge and then closing it again quickly ) Excuse me, sir. Treasury Dept. I'd like to ask you a few questions.
MAN: ( flustered ) What for? I haven't done anything.
HOOKER: We don't doubt that, but there's a counterfeiting operation passing bad money in the station. Have you made any purchases here today?
MAN: ( reluctantly ) Yes, a ticket to Chicago.
HOOKER: Then I'm afraid we'll have to impound your money until we're sure that it's all good. Can I see your wallet and your ticket, please?
MAN: ( handing them over ) But I got a train to make.
HOOKER: ( taking out the money and returning the wallet ) It'll only take 20 minutes or so. You can pick it up at the window down the hall.
MAN: But what about all these other We'll get 'em! Give us a chance. I'm not the only agent in here, ya know. We go around advertising ourselves, how many counterfeiters do you think we'd catch, huh? You think I'm wearin' this rag here 'cause I like it? Christ, everybody thinks life's a holiday or somethin' when you got a badge. I been here since three this morning, Charlie, and I never knew there was so much ugliness in people. You try to help 'em and they spit on you. I shoulda let ya go and gotten yourself arrested for passin' false notes. The Businessman is totally shamed.
HOOKER: ( blowing up ) We'll get 'em! Give us a chance. I'm not the only agent in here, ya know. We go around advertising ourselves, how many counterfeiters do you think we'd catch, huh? ( pointing to his suit ) You think I'm wearin' this rag here 'cause I like it? Christ, everybody thinks life's a holiday or somethin' when you got a badge. ( pouring it on ) I been here since three this morning, Charlie, and I never knew there was so much ugliness in people. You try to help 'em and they spit on you. I shoulda let ya go and gotten yourself arrested for passin' false notes. The Businessman is totally shamed.
MAN: I'm sorry, really I am, but my train leaves in ten minutes.
HOOKER: All right, I'll give ya a break. Down that hall there, there's an unmarked door on the left. Go on in there and wait at the window. I'll take this. .in the back and run it through right away. We'll have you outta there in a couple minutes.
MAN: Thank you. You don't know how much I appreciate this.
HOOKER: ( with a little wave ) Think nothin' of it. The man goes off down the hall, more than grateful to be given a break like this. Hooker heads for the "back". We follow the Man down the hall to the unmarked door. He strides on through to find himself face to face with a wall of busily flushing urinals.
HOOKER: Excuse me, I'm looking for a guy named Henry Gondorff. You know him?
BILLIE: ( starting back up the stairs ) Luther Coleman sent me. Billie stops and comes back down the stairs. It's the first time she's stopped chewing.
HOOKER: Luther Coleman sent me. Billie stops and comes back down the stairs. It's the first time she's stopped chewing.
BILLIE: ( checking him out ) You Hooker?
HOOKER: Why didn't you say so. I thought maybe you was a copper or somethin'. She goes to a side door and unlocks it.
BILLIE: Why didn't you say so. I thought maybe you was a copper or somethin'. She goes to a side door and unlocks it.
BILLIE: It's the room in the back. He wasn't expecting you so soon though. Hooker's not quite sure what that means, but there's something about Billie that makes him know that you don't ask.
HOOKER: ( to himself ) The great Henry Gondorff.
GONDORFF: Turn the goddamn thing off, will ya.
HOOKER: You sober?
GONDORFF: I can talk, can't I? Hooker makes no move to get up. Gondorff struggles to his knees, turns off the water, and slumps back against the wall. The two men just look past each other a second. Down in the Glad to meet ya, kid. You're a real horse's ass.
GONDORFF: Glad to meet ya, kid. You're a real horse's ass.
HOOKER: Yeh, Luther said you could teach me something. I already know how to Gondorff wipes his face with his hand. His mood softens a I'm sorry about Luther. He was the best street worker I ever saw.
GONDORFF: ( quietly ) I'm sorry about Luther. He was the best street worker I ever saw.
HOOKER: He had you down as a big-timer. What happened?
GONDORFF: Aw, I conned a Senator from Florida on a stocks deal. A real lop-ear. He thought he was gonna take over General Electric. Some Chantoozie woke him up, though, and he put the feds on me.
HOOKER: You mean you blew it.
GONDORFF: ( pause ) Luther didn't tell me you had a big He didn't tell me you was a fuck- up, either. ( Gondorff looks at him coldly ) You played the Big Con since then.
HOOKER: He didn't tell me you was a fuck- up, either. You played the Big Con since then.
GONDORFF: No, I lammed it around for a while while things cooled off. Philly, Denver, Baltimore, nuthin' towns. Hooker's disappointment is obvious.
GONDORFF: But don't kid yourself, friend, I still know how. Hooker nods, unconvinced.
GONDORFF: ( getting up from the floor and emptying the water out of his pockets ) You gonna stay for breakfast, or do you already know how to eat?
HOOKER: ( tired ) I picked something up on the way.
GONDORFF: ( sensing something ) Lonnegan after you, too?
HOOKER: I don't know. Haven't seen anybody.
GONDORFF: You never do, kid. We go to Hooker. He hadn't thought of that.
DAY: Lonnegan, in plus fours and argyles sits on a bench as other members of his foursome tee off. Floyd comes up to him.
FLOYD: We got word from Chicago. They got one of the grifters last night. The nigger.
LONNEGAN: What about the other one?
FLOYD: They're still looking for him.
LONNEGAN: Who's got the contract?
FLOYD: Combs gave it to Reilly and Cole.
LONNEGAN: They staked out the other guy's place last night, but he never showed. They figure maybe he skipped town. You wanna follow 'em Lonnegan regards Floyd patiently and then pats the bench beside him. Floyd sits gingerly.
FLOYD: They staked out the other guy's place last night, but he never showed. They figure maybe he skipped town. You wanna follow 'em Lonnegan regards Floyd patiently and then pats the bench beside him. Floyd sits gingerly.
LONNEGAN: You see the guy in the red sweater over there? We cut to one of Lonnegan's foursome, a short, squat little Irishman in a red sweater. He was a good-time, friendly manner and a winning Irish smile. We like him immediately.
LONNEGAN: Name's Danny McCoy. No Neck McCoy we called him. Runs a few protection rackets for Carnello while he's waiting for something bigger to come along. Me and Danny been friends since we were six. Take a good look at that face, Floyd, cause if he ever finds out we let one lousy grifter beat us, you'll have to kill him and every other hood in Chicago who'd like to do the same thing. You understand what I'm sayin'?
FLOYD: Yes sir.
LONNEGAN: Good lad. Lonnegan is called to the tee by one of his foursome. He exchanges a friendly smile with McCoy and belts the ball down the fairway.
BILLIE: You feeling all right this morning, Fine, Billie.
GONDORFF: Fine, Billie.
BILLIE: You mind opening the round a little early today? We got some business coming in before hours. Gondorff waves okay.
GONDORFF: ( to Hooker ) Great little countess, that Billie. Runs a good house up there, too. One of the few left that Luciano doesn't own. Gondorff walks around on the carousel, checking straps, bearing and poles. Hooker follows him.
HOOKER: ( getting impatient ) Gondorff, you gonna teach me the Big Con or not?
GONDORFF: ( on his back, checking underneath one of the horses ) You didn't act much like you wanted to learn it.
HOOKER: I wanna play for Lonnegan.
GONDORFF: ( getting up ) You know anything about him?
HOOKER: ( exploding ) Yeh, he croaked Luther. What else do I gotta know. Gondorff just sits tight and waits for him to cool off.
HOOKER: ( waving Gondorff off, embarrassed at his own outburst ) Aw right, he runs the numbers outta the south side.
GONDORFF: ( going over to start the machinery ) And a packing company, a chain of Savings and Loans and half the politicians in Chicago and New York. There ain't a fix in the world gonna cool him out if he blows on ya.
HOOKER: I'll take him anyway.
GONDORFF: ( whirling on him ) ( like steel ) 'Cause I don't know enough about killin' to kill him. It's the right answer. Gondorff didn't know it himself until You can't do it alone, ya know. It takes a mob of guys like you and enough money to make 'em look good.
HOOKER: ( like steel ) 'Cause I don't know enough about killin' to kill him. It's the right answer. Gondorff didn't know it himself until You can't do it alone, ya know. It takes a mob of guys like you and enough money to make 'em look good.
GONDORFF: You can't do it alone, ya know. It takes a mob of guys like you and enough money to make 'em look good.
HOOKER: We'll get by without 'em.
GONDORFF: This isn't like playin' winos on the street. You gotta do more than outrun the guy.
HOOKER: ( incensed ) I never played for winos.
GONDORFF: ( going right on, ignoring Hooker's remark ) You gotta keep Lonnegan's con, even after you spent his money. And no matter how much you take from his, he'll get more.
HOOKER: You're sacred of 'em, aren't ya?
GONDORFF: Right down to my socks, turkey. If I'da been half as scared a that lop-ear, I wouldn't a fallen asleep on 'em. Lonnegan might kill me, but at least he won't bore me to Then you'll do it?
HOOKER: Then you'll do it?
GONDORFF: If I can find a mob that'll risk it. But no matter what happens, I don't want you comin' back to me halfway through and sayin' it's not enough. cause it's all you got. Hooker nods. Gondorff switches on the carousel and steps back to admire his handiwork. The carousel makes a grinding sound, does a few lurches and stops cold.
MONTAGE SEQUENCE: Detailing the arrival of the others three members of Gondorff's "mob." Throughout, Gondorff wears the fedora hat which is his trademark. We begin with A tall, good-looking man, Kid Twist, making his way through the railway station. Impeccably dressed and carrying a small suitcase, he combs the terrain carefully with his eyes. Finally he catches a glimpse of the thing he's been looking for. It's Gondorff, standing by a newsstand. Gondorff makes a quick snubbing motion on his nose as if flicking off a gnat. This is known among con men as the "office." Twist returns the sign with a barely discernible smile as he walks on by. Con men rarely acknowledge each other openly in public, but it's obvious that these two are glad to see each INT. BARBER SHOP - DAY Hooker in, having his hair cut and his nails manicured. Gondorff gives instructions to the barber.
TWIST: ( showing Hooker photographs of three men ) These are Combs' favorite torpedoes. Riley and Cole. We recognize Riley and Cole as the two guys who got into Mottola's cab.
TWIST: They do most of the small jobs, but Lonnegan might not wanna use 'em on you 'cause they're kinda messy. No We go to Hooker. He's real grateful. Billie, wearing an evening dress, enters the room and begins gathering up the empty beer mugs on the table.
TWIST: We got reason to believe Riley was the guy who hit Luther. But if you see either one of these two, find yourself a crowd, or take 'em someplace you know you can handle But most of all let us know. If they got a hit on you, we gotta fold up the con. You're too exposed. You got that? Hooker nods, but we know he hasn't really got that.
GONDORFF: But most of all let us know. If they got a hit on you, we gotta fold up the con. You're too exposed. You got that? Hooker nods, but we know he hasn't really got that.
HOOKER: You sure it'll be one of these two?
TWIST: No. They're just the only ones we know of. Billie has finished gathering the mugs, and leaves the room with them. We follow her down the hall and into the:
BILLIE: ( to the bartender ) Set me up five more beers, will ya As Danny goes to fill the mugs, Billie's eyes fix on a man at the end of the bar. We move to reveal Snyder, intently scanning the room, as if he'd lost a dancing partner in the crush. Not finding what he wants, he comes down the bar to Billie.
SNYDER: You the owner here?
BILLIE: That's right.
SNYDER: ( flipping out his badge ) Lieutenant Snyder. Bunco.
BILLIE: Joliet badge, Snyder. Don't cut much up here.
SNYDER: ( trying to ignore her remark ) I'm lookin' for a guy on the lam from a counterfeiting rap. Thought he mighta come in here.
BILLIE: Don't think so. I know everybody in the place and I always bounce the lamsters.
SNYDER: All right if I look around your No, but you're welcome to a free beer before you go. Billie grabs a bottle of beer, pours some in a shot glass and pushes it over to Snyder. He ignores the gesture.
BILLIE: No, but you're welcome to a free beer before you go. Billie grabs a bottle of beer, pours some in a shot glass and pushes it over to Snyder. He ignores the gesture.
SNYDER: ( with controlled force ) I don't really need your permission. We go to Billie. She knew that when he came in.
SINGLETON: Lonnegan's a fast egg, Henry. He's not gonna sit still for a standard Everybody'll sit still for somethin'. What did ya find out about the train, Eddie?
GONDORFF: Everybody'll sit still for somethin'. What did ya find out about the train, Eddie?
NILES: He's been taking the 8:10 Century Limited outa New York on Friday and getting in here early Saturday morning. He usually stays a day to check on his policy operations, and then flies back.
GONDORFF: Wonder why he doesn't fly both ways.
NILES: The porters say he runs a braced card game in one of the cars. $100 minimum, straight poker. Last time he pulled in here ten grand heavier than he left New York.
GONDORFF: Fancies himself a gambler, huh?
TWIST: Lotta plungers ride that train just to play him.
GONDORFF: ( breaking into a smile ) See J.J., he's slowly down already.
SNYDER: Which way are the rooms?
BILLIE: Who told ya this guy was in here?
SNYDER: Nobody. I just know what kinda women he likes. I'm gonna check all the joyhouses till I find him.
BILLIE: Maybe I could help ya if ya told me his name.
SNYDER: I think I'll keep that to myself. Which way are the rooms?
BILLIE: Right through there. But I wouldn't go in there if I were you.
SNYDER: ( snidely ) What are ya gonna do, call the cops?
BILLIE: I don't have to. You'll be bustin' in on the Chief of Police just up the hall. Snyder is stopped cold. He calls after her.
SNYDER: Keep your nose clean, lady. He can't spend all his time here.
SINGLETON: I think we ought to play him on the Rag. It's the tightest game we got, and it's not all over the papers yet.
NILES: No good, J.J. You're not gonna con stocks to a banker. Lonnegan's too smart for that.
TWIST: What are you going to do, con the payoff to a gambler?
SNYDER: Twist is right. It won't work. Gondorff has nodded to Billie and now rejoins the conversation. She serves the others beer.
GONDORFF: We'll use the wire. Never known a gambler who wouldn't like to beat the ponies.
NILES: The wire is ten years outa date.
GONDORFF: That's why he won't know it.
SINGLETON: I'm not sure I know it.
GONDORFF: We'll give him the hook on the train, and play him here. You think I can get in that poker game, All you gotta do is show up with some money and look like a fool.
NILES: All you gotta do is show up with some money and look like a fool.
GONDORFF: I also gotta win. He looks at Hooker. There is a challenge in their book. Gondorff smiles broadly, then casually, to them all.
GONDORFF: By the way, any of you guys been passing off any green goods lately? We go around the table. No reply.
GONDORFF: Billie, if that Dick comes in again, stall him till I can get a look at him. And let me pay ya for these beers.
BILLIE: What are you talking about? It's on the house.
GONDORFF: ( pulling out a $5 bill ) Naw, I want ya to have this. He hitches up Billie's skirt, and puts the bill in her garter.
GONDORFF: Don't look at it till ya go to bed though or it'll turn to paper. Billie smiles and leaves the room.
THE HOOK: FADE OUT. FADE IN: EXT. A SUNKEN ALLEY - DAY Actually little more than a service area between two apartment buildings. Niles, Kid Twist, and a middle-aged black man, named Benny Garfield, enter the alley with an old man and follow him down a stairwell to a subterranean basement. A faded sign above the door says Stenner's Billiards. We follow them inside to a:
NILES: Looks all right. It's big enough and off the street.
GARFIELD: I don't know. This is kinda short notice. I'm not sure we can get it all done by Saturday.
NILES: Got to. Gondorff's ridin' the mark in from New York on the Century. Garfield thinks it over a little. He's taking another look at the place. We go to Twist and the old man by the door.
TWIST: We'll take it. You manage the building at the end of the alley?
OLD MAN: ( with pride ) For fifteen years.
TWIST: I'll need a room over there that faces this way. How much a week?
OLD MAN: Only rents by the month. Two hundred and fifty for the two of This is the last time I expect to see you down here.
TWIST: ( pulling out his wallet ) This is the last time I expect to see you down here.
OLD MAN: ( watching the bills being counted into his hand ) Never heard of the place. We go back to Niles and Garfield.
GARFIELD: Been a while since I stocked a wire store. Not many mobs playing that All we need is the bookie setup for now. We'll worry about the telegraph office later.
NILES: All we need is the bookie setup for now. We'll worry about the telegraph office later.
GARFIELD: All right, I'll rent ya everything I got in the warehouse for two grand. That'll give ya phones, cages, blackboards and ticker gear. You supply the guys to move 'em. If you want a counter and bar, that's another grand. I don't know where the hell I'm gonna get 'em C'mon, you can do better than that. We ain't no heel grifters.
NILES: C'mon, you can do better than that. We ain't no heel grifters.
GARFIELD: You want the stuff tomorrow or don't ya? It's gonna take hours just to clean it up. Besides, Gondorff's still a hot item. Where am I gonna be if he gets hit?
NILES: Just give us what ya can, Benny. We'll send a truck down. Twist has rejoined them by now.
TWIST: ( to Garfield ) You wanna work flat rate or Who's the mark?
GARFIELD: Who's the mark?
TWIST: Doyle Lonnegan.
GARFIELD: Flat rate.
GONDORFF: ( eyes fixed on Lonnegan ) Guy in the blue pinstripe and grey Hooker looks and finally spots him in the crowd. We go back to Lonnegan, as he moves off from the cigar counter, toward his train. Hooker watches him with the intensity of one gazing on a religious object.
HOOKER: He's not as tough as he'd like to Neither are we.
GONDORFF: ( picking up his suitcase ) Neither are we.
GONDORFF: I hear there's a friendly poker game on this train tonight. You know anything about that?
CONDUCTOR: A little.
GONDORFF: You think you could get me in that I don't know. There's usually a waiting list. Gondorff flashes a $50 bill.
CONDUCTOR: I don't know. There's usually a waiting list. Gondorff flashes a $50 bill.
CONDUCTOR: ( loosening up a bit ) That'll get you first alternate, sir. Gondorff pulls out another fifty.
CONDUCTOR: ( taking the money ) I'll see what I can do.
TWIST: ( going right on through ) How ya doin', Lacey.
LACEY: ( innocently pleased for one so menacing ) Good to see ya again, Twist.
BOUDREAU: Twist! When did you get back in Coupla days ago. I'm workin' a big one with Gondorff on the North Side. The two men sit down together, apart from the others.
TWIST: Coupla days ago. I'm workin' a big one with Gondorff on the North Side. The two men sit down together, apart from the others.
TWIST: Listen Duke, we're setting up a wire store. I need a twenty man boost right away.
BOUDREAU: I got twenty or so in here tonight. Take your pick.
TWIST: These guys have gotta be the quill, Duky. We can't afford to rank the Get me the sheet, Jake. Let's see who's in town.
BOUDREAU: ( to one of his assistants ) Get me the sheet, Jake. Let's see who's in town.
BOUDREAU: Twist, you know this guy?
TWIST: ( taking a look through the viewing port ) No. Never saw him before. He's a dick, though. Snyder walks all the way to the back, and then retraces his route. About halfway back, he stops at one of the tables, recognizing a grifter he knows. It's the Eirie Kid.
EIRIE KID: Hello, Snyder. What are you doin' up here?
SNYDER: I'm on vacation. You seen your friend lately?
EIRIE KID: Yeh, he packed it in and enrolled in detective school. Snyder, in no mood for jokes, grabs Eirie by the hair and slams his face into the table. Eirie just stays there; he knows it doesn't pay to assault a detective. Twist is watching all this intently from the viewing port.
SNYDER: You see him, you tell him to pay his debts before I get him. Eirie raises his head slowly, but says nothing. There is a slight trickle of blood from his nose. Snyder turns and walks slowly out of the bar. When he is a safe distance down the street, the chatter and drinking resume.
BOUDREAU: Paltrow, Sterling, Furey, and the Big Alabama are in from New Orleans. Fiskin and the Boone Kid from Denver, and Phillips, Barnett and Limehouse Chappie from New York. Those and the guys outside should give ya 30 or so to choose from.
TWIST: Good, have 'em down at Stenner's old Pool Hall before 3:00. We're gonna run through the route tonight.
BOUDREAU: Okay, Twist, but you know if this blows up, I can't do ya no good downtown. Gondorff is Federal.
TWIST: Don't worry about it, pal.
SINGLETON: You in?
GONDORFF: Yeh, I think so. I gave the kay- ducer a C-note. You find out the He usually plays with a Royal or a I got you one of each. He likes to cold deck low, 8's or 9's.
SINGLETON: He usually plays with a Royal or a I got you one of each. He likes to cold deck low, 8's or 9's.
GONDORFF: Nice work, J.J. Singleton slips out as Gondorff unpeels the packs.
WOMAN: ( sloppy drunk ) Keep your mitts off me, ya big lug. If I'da wanted you handlin' me I woulda asked ya. Lonnegan ignores her and proceeds down the passageway. As the woman proceeds in the other direction between passengers, we see it is Billie. She drops something on a seat beside a passenger. A hand reaches to pick it up. It is Lonnegan's wallet and it is Hooker who picks it up. Hooker waits a moment, then stands and goes in the direction Lonnegan has taken. He passes by the open door to the card room, hesitating only slightly to hear the greetings exchanged inside before the door is shut. Then he continues on into the next car. He turns into Gondorff's compartment.
HOOKER: She got him clean. He hasn't missed it. Gondorff nods, takes the money out, counts it.
GONDORFF: Fifteen grand. Looks like he's expecting a big night. He takes out his own wallet and puts the money in it, and tosses the empty wallet back to Hooker, and resumes his shuffling and dealing. Hooker sits back silently and watches him.
HOOKER: He's waitin' for you in the card Let him wait. As he deals, on the second pass he attempts to cut from the bottom, muffs it completely and sprays half the deck on the table. Hooker regards him steadily as he gathers them back up. Gondorff finally meets his gaze.
GONDORFF: Let him wait. As he deals, on the second pass he attempts to cut from the bottom, muffs it completely and sprays half the deck on the table. Hooker regards him steadily as he gathers them back up. Gondorff finally meets his gaze.
GONDORFF: You just worry about your end, kid.
HOOKER: If we ever get to it.
LONNEGAN: ( to the Conductor ) Where the hell is this guy?
CONDUCTOR: I don't know. He said he'd be here.
LONNEGAN: All right, let's start without him. Mr. Clemens, give me the cards. The Conductor hands him a sealed deck. As he begins to open it, Gordoff comes into the room, coatless, rumpled, unshaven and looking slightly tipsy. The others at the table, all men of high school or financial standing, are somewhat put Sorry I'm late boys. I was takin' a crap. This bit of grossness does little to improve his image.
GONDORFF: Sorry I'm late boys. I was takin' a crap. This bit of grossness does little to improve his image.
CONDUCTOR: ( making the referring first to Gondorff ) Mr. Shaw is a bookmaker from Chicago. Mr. Shaw, meet Mr. Clayton from Pittsburgh, Mr. Jameson, Chicago, Mr. Lonnegan, New York and Mr. Lombard, Philadelphia. Gondorff nods and takes a seat, none too gracefully.
CONDUCTOR: Straight poker, gentlemen. 100 dollar minimum, table stakes. We assume you're good for your debts.
LONNEGAN: ( shuffling the cards ) Mr. Shaw, we usually require a tie at this table. If you don't have one, we can get ya one.
GONDORFF: Yeh, that'd be real nice of ya, Mr. He begins to deal, obviously not pleased that his evening seems to be peopled with drunks.
LONNEGAN: ( irritated ) He begins to deal, obviously not pleased that his evening seems to be peopled with drunks.
CURLY: Name's Curly Jackson. I worked for Gad Bryan outa Baltimore.
TWIST: You ever played the Wire, Curly?
CURLY: Used to rope for it long ago. I can shill, mark board, anything you want. I don't run with riffraff and I only drink on weekends. Me specialty is an Englishman. Twist is taken with the man, despite his appearance.
TWIST: All right, Curly, you're in. We got a rack of suits over there. Get yourself a nice tweed one.
CURLY: ( exiting ) That's all right. I got all my own THE CARD GAME AGAIN Gondorff and Lonnegan have most of the chips. Lonnegan is slightly ahead. Gondorff has made a token attempt to wear the provided tie, having tied it in a knot around his neck, but not having bothered to put it under his collar. He has a shot glass and a bottle next to him, from which he has been drinking heavily. He and Lonnegan are the only ones left in this hand.
LONNEGAN: ( throwing chips in ) Raise 500.
GONDORFF: ( likewise ) See ya and raise three.
LONNEGAN: ( more chips ) See and raise five.
GONDORFF: Five and call. Lonnegan lays down his hand, a solid two pair. Gondoroff turns out three tens. Lonnegan is beat.
GONDORFF: Tough luck, Lonnihan, but that's what you get for playin' with your head up your ass. Couple more like that and we can all go to bed early, huh boys. Lonnegan burns, and the "boys" have no comment.
GARFIELD: We bought ya a tap into Moe Anenberg's wire. He's got eyes at every track in the country. You'll get race results, odds, scratches, pole positions, everything; and just as fast as Western Union gets Does J.J. know how to use this thing?
NILES: Does J.J. know how to use this thing?
GARFIELD: All he's gotta do is read. We go to Kid Twist, still conducting interviews in the office. A young, rather sullen man, Buck Duff, steps to the Buck Duff. I was in Maxwell's boost in Troy.
DUFF: Buck Duff. I was in Maxwell's boost in Troy.
TWIST: You the Duff that didn't come up with his end when Little Jeff was sent up?
DUFF: Wasn't no problem a mine.
TWIST: He was a con man, wasn't he?
DUFF: He was a tear-off rat. He got what he deserved. No sense helpin' pay his bills.
TWIST: ( like ice ) Shove off, Duff. Duff stands there a second and then slouches away from the table. He stops however, by the door. The next man up is the Eirie Kid. Twist knows he's seen him somewhere before.
EIRIE KID: ( nervous as hell ) Names's Joe Eirie. Twist waits for more, but it's not coming.
TWIST: You played for any particular mobs?
EIRIE KID: You know the Wire at all?
TWIST: You know the Wire at all?
EIRIE KID: No.I never played no Big Con before. But Luther Coleman was a friend a mine. I thought maybe there was something I could do.
TWIST: ( pointing to Eirie slightly swollen nose ) You get that nose in Duke Boudreau's Eirie nods a reluctant "yes."
TWIST: You got moxie, Eirie. Get yourself a suit. Eirie is so happy, he can barely blurt out a thank you. Buck Duff, enraged that Twist would hire a total amateur, turns in disgust and strides vengefully out of the store.
GONDORFF: Raise 300.
LONNEGAN: ( throwing in his last few chips ) Raise 200.
JAMESON: ( throwing in his last few chips ) Raise 200.
GONDORFF: Two and call. Jameson lays down two pair. Gondorff has a flush. Gondorff rakes in the chips, which now put him ahead of Lonnegan.
JAMESON: Well, I'm out.
GONDORFF: Don't worry about it, pal. Lemongan here wouldn'ta let you in the game if you weren't a chump.
LONNEGAN: ( getting to his feet ) I've had enough of your lip, Shaw. Gondorff grabs the whiskey bottle next to him, breaks it against the table and waves the jagged end in Lonnegan's face.
GONDORFF: ( barely able to stand up ) Just take it easy there, Larrabee. Jameson and the conductor step in between.
JAMESON: Let's take a break for a couple minutes and cool off. Lonnegan storms out of the room, followed by Floyd and INT. SMOKING ROOM We pick up Lonnegan coming down the passageway to enter the smoking room.
LONNEGAN: ( to his assistant ) I've had it with that bum, Floyd. Stack me a cooler.
FLOYD: ( trying to settle him down ) You've only been playin three hours, Doyle.
LONNEGAN: ( not to be pacified ) I don't care. Load me a deck. Set it up for threes and nines. I'll cut it in on his deal.
FLOYD: ( taking a deck and beginning to sort it ) What do ya want the others to get?
LONNEGAN: Nothin'. They gotta be outa there early. I'm gonna bust that bastard in one play.
CLAYTON: ( opening the bidding ) Raise 1,000.
LONNEGAN: Raise 1,000.
GONDORFF: Raise 1,000.
LONNEGAN: Raise 500. Gondorff looks at Lonnegan very carefully for a second. Lonnegan meets his stare.
GONDORFF: ( slowly ) Raise 2,000. The spectators shift a little. It's the biggest bet of the See and raise 1,000.
LONNEGAN: See and raise 1,000.
GONDORFF: ( taking it to him ) Raise 5,000. Lonnegan fingers his remaining chips. He knows he's won, but he wants to bleed it for every bit of suspense.
LONNEGAN: ( going for broke ) See, and raise the rest. Lonnegan pushes in the rest of his chips. Gondorff, who is only required to match Lonnegan's total, throws in all his too. It's a showdown.
GONDORFF: Lonnegan puts down his four nines. Gondorff just stares at them a second, lets out a deep sigh and lays down four jacks. Lonnegan is aghast. This just can't be. He glances at Floyd, who can do nothing but sit there with his mouth open.
GONDORFF: ( raking in the chips ) Well that's all for me tonight, boys. I'm gonna leave ya some cab The other players look at each other in disgust, and reach for their wallets, all of which are well stocked.
GONDORFF: ( to Lonnegan ) You owe me 15 grand, pal. Lonnegan, with a stare that could kill, reaches for his wallet. Suddenly the stare goes soft. He tries a few more pockets. No soap.
LONNEGAN: ( getting up to get it ) I guess I left it in my room.
GONDORFF: ( blowing up ) What! Don't give me that crap you little weenie. How do I know you ain't gonna take a powder. ( waving his wallter, which is full of Lonnegan's money ) You come to a game like this, you bring your money. Lonnegan, having had all he can take, goes for Gondorff, but is restrained by the conductor.
GONDORFF: All right, buddy, I'm gonna send a boy by your room in five minutes, and you better have that jack, or it's gonna be all over Chicago that your name ain't worth a dime. Gondorff stalks out of the room. We pick him up coming down the passageway to his compartment.
HOOKER: How'd ya do?
GONDORFF: ( modestly ) Well we got some workin' money Gondorff tosses his winnings on the table.
GONDORFF: ( big smile ) Okay, kid, you're on. But I gotta tell ya, its a hard act to follow.
FLOYD: I know I give him four threes. We can't let him get away with that.
LONNEGAN: What am I supposed to do? Call him for cheating better than me? There's a knock at the door. Floyd goes and opens it. It's My name's Carver. Mr. Shaw sent me. Floyd motions him in without a word.
HOOKER: My name's Carver. Mr. Shaw sent me. Floyd motions him in without a word.
LONNEGAN: Your boss is quite a card player, Carver. How does he do it?
HOOKER: ( very matter-of-factly ) He cheats. Lonnegan says nothing. He doesn't like smart asses. He looks Hooker over a second, as if considering whether to have him wasted or not.
LONNEGAN: ( reaching into his coat pocket ) He'll have to take a check. ( pulling out a check ) I couldn't find my wallet.
HOOKER: Yeh, he knows that.
LONNEGAN: ( startled ) What do you mean?
HOOKER: ( pulling out Lonnegan's wallet and tossing it to him ) He hired a dame to take it from ya. Lonnegan just holds the wallet. He can't believe it.
HOOKER: You were set up, Lonnegan. Shaw's been planning to beat your game for months. He was just waiting for you to cheat him so he could clip ya.
LONNEGAN: ( the heat rising ) I could have you put under this train for this, errand boy.
HOOKER: ( cool as hell ) So could Shaw.
LONNEGAN: Then why the rat?
HOOKER: Cause I'm tired of bein' his nigger. I want you to help me break him. Lonnegan looks at Hooker long and hard, as if the intensity of his gaze could separate truth from fiction. Lonnegan hadn't expected this, but now that it's here, it better be on the level. The silence is suddenly broken by the noise of the train braking into the station.
LONNEGAN: ( to Hooker ) C'mon, I'll give ya a lift home. Hooker hesitates, not sure whether to accept or not.
LONNEGAN: What's the matter? You gotta get back to Shaw?
HOOKER: Naw, he picked up some jane in the bar. Can't see him till morning All right, then.
LONNEGAN: All right, then.
LONNEGAN: Why me? Shaw probably has lotsa enemies to choose from.
HOOKER: I need somebody respectable.but not completely legit. What I'm gonna do isn't very legal.
LONNEGAN: ( insulted ) I'm a banker, friend. That's legit in this state.
HOOKER: All you gotta do is place a bet for me at Shaw's place. I'll supply all the money and the information. Lonnegan is listening, but you'd never know it.
HOOKER: If you help me out, I'll pay ya back the money you owe Shaw, myself.
LONNEGAN: That's worth fifteen grand to ya?
HOOKER: Maybe a couple million. We go to Lonnegan. He's still not talking, but that last phrase has registered.
LONNEGAN: You're dreamin', kid.
HOOKER: ( getting out ) 660 Marshall Street. Tomorrow at 12:30, if you're interested.
LONNEGAN: ( diffidently ) If I'm not there by quarter of, I'm not coming. Hooker nods and walks up the steps to his apartment building. Lonnegan's car speeds away from the curb and on out of sight. Hooker breathes a sigh of relief. He's passed his first test; or has he? We follow him up the stairs to his room.
GONDORFF: No signs of trouble?
HOOKER: What do ya mean?
GONDORFF: You know, somebody tailin' ya. A torpedo or somethin'.
HOOKER: ( wanting to get off the subject ) No, not a thing. Gondorff has his doubts, but lets them ride.
HOOKER: You think he'll show?
GONDORFF: Did he say he wouldn't?
HOOKER: ( softly ) He'll show.
GONDORFF: ( softly ) He'll show.
THE TALE: FADE OUT. FADE IN: WE OPEN ON A WIDE SHOT OF THE ALLEY OUTSIDE THE STORE At first it appears to be deserted, but we move to reveal a figure in an upper window of the apartment building which forms one side of the alley. It's Kid Twist. His eyes roam the street, for what, we do not yet know.
GONDORFF: Eddie, cut that out, will ya. The boardmarker walking nervously back and forth in front of his odds board, checking every letter and number. He stops to cross a T on one of the horses' names. It was already crossed, but he does it again anyway. Billie and Singleton, in an area hidden from the rest of the room, watching the print-out on the ticker machine. The clicking of the ticker is the only sound we hear in the store. Curly Jackson in front of a mirror, pasting a fake Van Dyke on his chin to go with his tweed suit and monocle. A couple of Billie's girls adjusting their waitress outfits and primping their hair. Each has a tray full of drinks beside her. The Eirie Kid silently retracing his "route" to make sure he has it down. Despite the crowd, there is no talking and little movement, save for the constant swirling of smoke from several cigars and cigarettes. The group is like a theatre company waiting to go on opening night.
VOICE: Hooker turns around to find that Lonnegan is seated in the booth directly behind him. His bodyguard is in the one behind that.
LONNEGAN: You should always look to the back too, kid.
HOOKER: ( sliding out of his booth and into Lonnegan's ) I was afraid you weren't gonna come. We haven't got much time.
LONNEGAN: ( curtly ) Get on with it then.
HOOKER: ( pointing to telephone ) Sometime after 1:00 a guy's gonna call here and give you the name of a horse. ( pulling out a wad of bills ) All you do is take this two grand across the street to Shaw's place and bet it on that pony. There's nothin' to it, but don't take too much time. We only have 3 or 4 minutes after you get the call.
LONNEGAN: You're not gonna break him with a $2,000 bet.
HOOKER: This is just a test. The big one comes later. Be careful with that though, it's all I got.
LONNEGAN: And you were gonna pay me back?
HOOKER: I am after this race. Lonnegan says nothing. He's not sure he likes a man who's stupid enough to bet his last dollar on a horse race.
HOOKER: I gotta get back before Shaw misses me. Good luck.
OUTSIDE STORE: As Hooker descends the stairwell into the store, he gives Kid Twist the office. Twist turns away from the window and looks at his watch. 12:58.
DRUGSTORE: Lonnegan waiting by the phone, idly pinging a knife on the salt shaker. It's 1:40. A man enters the store and walks over to use the phone.
LONNEGAN: We're waitin' for a call. The man looks at Lonnegan a second, and then at his four goons. He decides maybe he'll make the call later.
TWIST: Bluenote at 6 to 1 on the nose. The receiver clicks down at the other end. Lonnegan hangs up and goes out the door, followed by his entourage.
SINGLETON: Look at that. He's got four apes with him.
GONDORFF: That's what I like about these guys, J.J. They always got protection against things we'd never do to 'em. Everywhere there is activity. A bank of telephones buzzes incessantly. Sheet writers scurry from phone to phone, taking bets of tremendous size from prominent people.
SHEET WRITER: Yes, Mr. Ruth, 20,000 on Dancing We reveal that the phones are controlled by a master switch, which one of the recruited con men operates from behind a The boardmaker, wearing headphones suspended from a sliding wire, hurriedly chalks up races and odds on a huge blackboard. From the loudspeakers we hear the words "last flash." The odds on Bluenote settle down to 8 to 1. Lonnegan makes his way through the throng toward the betting line. His bodyguards fan out to various positions in the room. The betting crowd itself ( known as the "boost" ) consists of close to twenty people, none of whom, of course are what they're pretending to be. There are brokers with pasty faces, sportsmen, tanned and casual, and financiers with goatees and highly tailored clothes. Large amounts of money are changing hands at the betting window. Boodles are in sight everywhere. Lonnegan slips into the betting line, feeling somewhat estranged from the general merriment around him. There are two men in line ahead of him. The first, Curly Jackson, slaps down several bundles of cash in front of Niles, who's the cashier, and places a $20,000 bet on War Eagle. Gondorff appears at the cashier's window and catches sight of Lonnegan.
GONDORFF: Never get enough, huh pal? I'd think you'd get tired of losin', The name is Lonnegan.
LONNEGAN: ( piercingly ) The name is Lonnegan.
GONDORFF: ( to Niles ) Make sure you see cash from this guy, Eddie. He's got the name for bettin' money he don't have. The man in front of Lonnegan puts $5,000 on Dancing Cloud. He makes the bet on credit. Lonnegan steps to the window.
LONNEGAN: Two-thousand on Bluenote.
NILES: ( writing out a ticket ) Is that all?
LONNEGAN: ( pissed ) That's all. Bluenote's race is now up on the board. The race caller comes on the loudspeaker.
CALLER: Ladies and Gentlemen. This is Arnold Rowe, your caller for the second race at Belmont in New York. A mile and 1/8. Four year olds and up. And they're off! We see that the caller is Singleton, and that he's calling the race from a concealed booth next to the cashier's cage.
CALLER: Around the first turn it's a War Eagle first by a length, Jail Bate second by one and a half, Dancing Cloud third by a half on the outside, followed by Lucky Lady, Mojo, Wits' End and Bluenote. Lonnegan goes to the bar, orders a drink, and settles down at one of the tables. It happens to be the one the Eirie Kid is at. Gondorff and Niles watch it from the cashier's That's not where we want him to sit. Eirie tries to ignore Lonnegan at first, but realizes he better make some conversation.
GONDORFF: ( worried ) That's not where we want him to sit. Eirie tries to ignore Lonnegan at first, but realizes he better make some conversation.
EIRIE KID: C'mon War Eagle. That Dancing Cloud's a hell of a finisher. War Eagle's gonna have to open up a little more on 'em.
LONNEGAN: You know anything about a horse named Bluenote?
EIRIE KID: Naw, he's never done much. Probably in here just to round out the field. War Eagle's where you wanna have your money. Eirie excuses himself and heads for the bar.
CALLER: Into the clubhouse turn, it's War Eagle by two lengths, Dancing Cloud has moved up to second by a half, Lucky Lady is third by three followed by Jail Bait, Mojo, Bluenote and Wits' End. The heretofore chaotic energy of the parlor is now focused on the race. Several of the patrons begin to yell for their horses. Lonnegan remains seated. He seems bored with it all. Hooker comes over to clear some empty glasses from his You really picked a winner, kid.
LONNEGAN: ( out of the corner of his mouth ) You really picked a winner, kid.
HOOKER: Give 'em a little time.
CALLER: Into the backstretch it's War Eagle still by a length, Dancing Cloud closing on the inside, is second by two, Lucky Lady is third by one and a half, followed by Bluenote, Jail Bait, Wits' End and Mojo. Lonnegan perks up just a little. Bluenote, at least, has moved up. The rest of the people in the place are really rooting now. Few of them remain seated. Hooker arrives at the bar, with the glasses he cleared from Lonnegan's table. Eirie is already there, fortifying himself with a scotch.
HOOKER: You're doin' great, Eirie. He loves ya. Eirie nods, somewhat unconvinced, and heads bak to the table.
CALLER: Into the far turn, it's Dancing Cloud now by half a length, War Eagle is second by two, Bluenote is third by a half and moving fast on the outside. Lucky Lady is fourth by four lengths, followed by Jail Bait, Wits' End and Mojo. Lonnegan is getting more intent now.
CALLER: Coming down the stretch, it's Dancing Cloud by one length, War Eagle and Bluenote are neck and neck by two. Now it's Dancing Cloud, Bluenote and War Eagle. Dancing Cloud and Bluenote head to The place is going crazy. Even Singleton is standing up to get the necessary excitement in his voice.
CALLER: Dancing Cloud, Bluenote. Dancing Cloud, Bluenote. It's Bluenote by a nose. Dancing Cloud is second by two, War Eagle third by three and a half. Time for a mile and 1/8, 2:01 and 6/10 seconds. Most of the patrons collapse into their chairs like spent lovers. Eirie slams his racing form to the floor. Nobody had Bluenote.
CURLY: ( tearing up his ticket ) Bloody awful. Who in blazes is ( to Eirie, very self-satisfied ) War Eagle's where you want to have your money, huh? Eirie doesn't reply. He can't believe Bluenote won. Lonnegan looks to Hooker. Hooker gives him a wink. For the first time, Lonnegan permits a smile.
LONNEGAN: ( to Eirie, very self-satisfied ) War Eagle's where you want to have your money, huh? Eirie doesn't reply. He can't believe Bluenote won. Lonnegan looks to Hooker. Hooker gives him a wink. For the first time, Lonnegan permits a smile.
GONDORFF: ( getting his name right this time ) Don't bother to come back with a piker's bet like that again, Lonnegan. We got a $5,000 minimum ( to Hooker ) Show this bum out. Hooker hesitates a second.
GONDORFF: Go on, ya goddamn ninny. Gondorff gives Hooker a hard shove in the back with his foot, sending him into a table and sprawling to the floor.
GONDORFF: ( indicating Lonnegan's bodyguards ) And tell him not to bring his garbage men in here no more. This is a class joint. Hooker, pretending to be humiliated, gets to his feet and escorts Lonnegan to the door. Lonnegan stops, gives Gondorff a derisive smile, and walks out. Once he's gone, the general clatter and hubbub in the room cease, like it had been turned off by a faucet. Most of the boost sit down and relax. Curly Jackson rips off his Van Dyke. It's been itching him.
GONDORFF: He's gaffed, kid. He should start coming to you now.
LONNEGAN: All right, Riley. What the hell We missed him.
RILEY: ( not looking at him ) We missed him.
LONNEGAN: You weren't hired to miss him.
RILEY: There wasn't any way he coulda known we was in there. We made a clean pick on the lock and didn't leave no footprints in the hall. Somebody musta wised him up.
LONNEGAN: Yeh, and what does Cole say about I don't know. He took it hard.
RILEY: I don't know. He took it hard.
LONNEGAN: All right, get outa here. You're outta work. Riley gets up and drags himself out the door like a whipped We'll put Salino on it. I need somebody careful.
LONNEGAN: We'll put Salino on it. I need somebody careful.
COMBS: Salino? Why waste our best people on a small-time job like this? It ain't no heavy gee we're after. The guy's a five and dime grifter.
LONNEGAN: Then why ain't he dead?
COMBS: They didn't think he'd be so cagey, that's all. They'll get him next Use Salino. It'll take a little longer, but there won't be any holes in it. Combs gives up. The second time's the charm.
LONNEGAN: Use Salino. It'll take a little longer, but there won't be any holes in it. Combs gives up. The second time's the charm.
LONNEGAN: And tell Cole I wanta see him when he gets in.
COMBS: He's not comin' in. Not to get bounced off a job anyway.
LONNEGAN: He had his chance and all he did was shoot up a rooming house. Made a lotte noise and woke up a few cops, but didn't hit nothin'. Combs keeps his mouth shut. There's no way to talk to Lonnegan when he's like this.
LONNEGAN: ( cooling a little ) This is Salino's job now, Vince. If Cole wants to muscle in on it, that's his business. But he's breakin' the rules and when Salino finds out about it, I can't feel sorry for what's gonna happen to him.
HOOKER: Well, what did I tell ya?
LONNEGAN: You're a lucky man, all right.
HOOKER: Lucky, hell. I could do it every Why don't ya then.
LONNEGAN: Why don't ya then.
HOOKER: 'Cause it's better to do it all at We're puttin' down 400 grand next week. At 5-1 we make 2 million. Twenty per cent of that is yours if ya stick with us.
LONNEGAN: You got a system, Carver?
HOOKER: You stayin' in or not?
LONNEGAN: I'm in.
HOOKER: ( drawing up a chair, barely able to contain his enthusiasm ) It's foolproof. We got a partner downtown runs the central office of the Western Union. Race results from all over the country come in there and go right across his desk on their way to the bookies. All he does in hold them up a couple minutes until he can call us and get a bet down on the winner. Then he releases the results to the bookies and we clean up on a race that's already been run. It can't miss, unless the Western Union Dicks get onto it. Lonnegan is amazed. He sits back a second, then comes forward again and pushes a pile of bills over to Hooker. Hooker smiles and begins to count the money.
LONNEGAN: You got the 400 grand yet?
HOOKER: Not yet, but. Hey, there's only a grand here.
LONNEGAN: ( more like a command ) I think we oughta place another bet ( getting angry ) What is this? That's my money. You tryin' to muscle me?
HOOKER: ( getting angry ) What is this? That's my money. You tryin' to muscle me?
LONNEGAN: ( controlled ) If your system's as foolproof as you say, you'll get even more. Hooker's in a jam and he knows it.
HOOKER: ( after a pause ) I gotta talk to me partner first. We can't afford to expose our game too much.
LONNEGAN: Let me talk to him.
HOOKER: ( flatly ) You want your money back? Try and get it in a court of law. ( softening a bit ) C'mon, don't be a sorehead. I'll make it worth your while. Migth even help ya finance the big play if this one works out. Hooker says nothing for a minute, and then reluctantly nods his head.
LONNEGAN: You want your money back? Try and get it in a court of law. C'mon, don't be a sorehead. I'll make it worth your while. Migth even help ya finance the big play if this one works out. Hooker says nothing for a minute, and then reluctantly nods his head.
HOOKER: Four o'clock tomorrow. Pick me up at Dewey Lyle's.
HOOKER: Twist? I told him the tale. He wants to see ya.
TWIST: All right, when?
HOOKER: Tomorrow, after 4:00. Stay inside, I'll come in and get ya. And be hard on him for a while; he's talking money.
TWIST: Okay, Tootsie. Hooker blows a mock kiss through the phone and hangs up. He turns to leave the booth, when suddenly he sees something that stops him cold. There looking through the glass is the smirking face of Detective Synder. Hooker is immobilized. Snyder puts his hand inside his coat and slowly draws out his gun. He points it right at Hooker's face and then violently smashes all the glass in the upper half of the door with the barrel. Fragments of glass spray into the booth, a couple of which imbed themselves in Hooker's cheek. Hooker quickly whips open the door, trapping Snyder's hand in the accordian and jarring loose his gun. Hooker sprints out of the booth as Snyder scrambles for his pistol and gives pursuit.
CONDEMNED BUILDING: Hooker makes for a condemned building and scrambles up the stairs, steps giving way under him as he goes.
GONDORFF: Well you found him again and we're gonna have to do somethin' about it. What else haven't ya been tellin' me?
HOOKER: Nothin'. I told ya everything there is.
GONDORFF: Then why'd ya move outa your room?
HOOKER: It was too noisy.
GONDORFF: You can't play your friends like marks, Hooker. Hooker doesn't reply. He knows Gondorff's on to him.
GONDORFF: You know how easy it'd be for one of Lonnegan's guys to nail you?
HOOKER: All we need is a couple days, Henry. A couple days and we'll get Lonnegan down and stomp on 'em.
GONDORFF: You just won't learn, will ya. Hell, you come in here, I teach you stuff maybe five guys in this world know, stuff most grifters couldn't do even if they knew it, and all you wanna do is run down a bullet. You're just like all them new jerks. Lotsa nerve and no brains. And ten years from now when me and the others are through and you dumb guys are all dead there won't be one gee left who knows the Big Con was anything more than a way to make a livin'.
HOOKER: A couple days; that's all I'm askin'. I can stay clear that long.
GONDORFF: ( trying to be angry and failing ) Christ, they'll probably miss you and hit me.
THE WIRE: FADE OUT. FADE IN: INT. A SLEEPY DINER - LATE AFTERNOON Located across the street from Hooker's apartment building. Hooker sits down alone in a booth, with a plate of ham and eggs he's hardly touched. The two cuts on his face have pretty much stopped bleeding. A big fan above the counter area drones away lethargically, it's air stream insufficient to either cool the place or drive out the smell of onions and grease. A waitress, Loretta, emerges from the kitchen and ambles slowly over to Hooker's table. Slim and raven-haired, she manifests an indifference bred from years spent delivering things to people who are rarely grateful for what she brings. Only a light scar on her left cheek hints at another side.
LORETTA: You done?
HOOKER: Yeh, I guess I shoulda had the meat It isn't any better.
LORETTA: ( deadpan ) It isn't any better.
HOOKER: Where's June today?
LORETTA: ( figuring up the bill ) She don't work here no more. I'm fillin' in for a couple days. till I can get a train outa here.
HOOKER: Where you goin'?
LORETTA: ( putting the check down and walking away ) I don't know. Depends what train I get on. Hooker looks for some sign that she's putting him on. He doesn't get it. He takes out some money, drops it on the table and walks out.
TWIST: ( to the receptionist ) Excuse me. We're here to paint Mr. Harmon's office.
RECEPTIONIST: ( obviously not expecting them ) Mr. Harmon's office? Hold on just a second.
LONNEGAN: What happened to your face?
HOOKER: Had a little fight with a raggle down on 13th. She got me with her Lonnegan laughs.
HARMON: Brigham signed it all right. I can't understand why he didn't tell Ah, he's like all them supervisors. They think they're too good for regular people. He says he was in here a while ago and the place was a mess. Harmon looks around, hoping it's not true.
SINGLETON: Ah, he's like all them supervisors. They think they're too good for regular people. He says he was in here a while ago and the place was a mess. Harmon looks around, hoping it's not true.
TWIST: We'll try and hurry so we don't keep you out of your office too long.
HARMON: Why can't I work with you in there?
SINGLETON: Look pal, we gotta cover the floor, the furniture, everything, so we don't spill on nothing. Now if you wanta sit in there with a tarp over your head, you're welcome to it.
HARMON: All right, how long will you be?
TWIST: Hour or two at the most. We do good work. Harmon is resigned. Twist and Singleton pick up their gear and march into the office. Once inside, we notice that the office has an exit door which opens to an outside alley. Twist immediately removes his overalls, revealing the suit and tie he's wearing underneath. He takes out a picture of himself, a woman and three small children, and puts it on Harmon's desk, replacing a similiar picture of Harmon's family. Singleton, meanwhile, has spread a few tarps and begins to paint the walls.
HOOKER: We'll go to the side door. We follow Hooker and Lonnegan across the street to the side entrance which opens into:
HOOKER: Les, I got Mr. Lonnegan with me. He wants to see you a second.
TWIST: ( irritated ) What the hell's the matter with you. We coulda met at a club or somethin'.
HOOKER: I thought it might be good for him to see the setup.
TWIST: ( hushed ) Well we can't talk in here. They're having the place painted. Twist walks over to the intercom on his desk. He leaves the door open so that Lonnegan can get a good look at the office, Twist's picture in it, the painter, etc. Lonnegan's not missing any of it.
TWIST: ( talking into the intercom ) Miss Barnes, I'm going home a little early today. Tell anyone that calls that they can reach me here in the morning. Thank you.
TWIST: Can't do it. There're telegraph inspectors all over the place. I got 750 grand coming in from the coast, and I'm not gonna blow it for a lousy 14 gees. We'll get somebody else to do our betting.
LONNEGAN: I could come up with 750 grand in a day if I had a reason to.
TWIST: But who says you will. I got a guy I can depend on. He's liquidating everything he has for this. You wouldn't even give Carver his money I need more proof, that's all. Anybody can get lucky once.
LONNEGAN: I need more proof, that's all. Anybody can get lucky once.
TWIST: ( stubbornly ) On a 6-1 shot? The hell with ya. We'll keep the deal we got.
LONNEGAN: If it works again tomorrow, I'll have a half million in cash here by noon the next day. We split 60-40.
TWIST: ( feebly, beginning to break ) We were getting 50 from our guy.
LONNEGAN: With 20% coming off the top for me laying your bet. Either way you end up with 40. Twist hesitates.
LONNEGAN: A week's a long time, friend. Anything can happen. All of it bad.
HOOKER: He's right, Les.
TWIST: Yeh, and what if we play tomorrow and he doesn't come up with the money. We risk our whole operation for nothing. I'll say when we make our bets.
LONNEGAN: Not if you want me to keep makin' 'em for ya.
HOOKER: And what do we know about your guy. He says a week, but who knows if it's a month? Lonnegan here's a banker. He can get that dough with no questions asked. Twist says nothing for a minute, then:
TWIST: All right. Be at the booth at 1:00. I'll give you all three places this time, Lonnegan. That better be proof enough. Hooker and Lonnegan smile at each other like life-long friends. They get up to leave, and we frame the shot with a coffee cup large in the foreground. As they go out the door, a black-gloved hand with four fingers enters the frame and puts a nickel down next to the cup.
MAN: Are you Lieutenant William Snyder?
SNYDER: I don't know, what's up?
MAN: F.B.I. The Captain'd like a few words with ya. Ya got a couple Yeh, sure. The two men show him to a waiting car.
SNYDER: ( completely floored ) Yeh, sure. The two men show him to a waiting car.
SNYDER: What is this? I got work to do.
POLK: Sit down and shut up, will ya. Try not to live up to all my We were told you know a hustle artist named Johnny Hooker. Snyder doesn't answer.
POLK: Do ya know him or don't ya?
SNYDER: Yeh, but I don't know where he is.
POLK: Well we do. He's chummin' around with a Big C named Henry Gondorff. Ring any bells?
SNYDER: Sure. Every bunco man in the country knows Gondorff.
POLK: There's word he's gonna run a con on the North Side here. We got a year-old Florida warrant on him, but it's a thin beef, and he can beat it in court unless we catch him cold. All we want you to do is pick up Hooker for us.
SNYDER: Why don't you pick him up yourself?
POLK: Cause the stoolies are used to street dicks jumpin' him. If word gets around that Feds are in on it too, Gondorff'll fold up the whole Wouldn't that be too bad. You'd hafta move outa this nice office ya Don't crack wise to me, flatfoot. I spent a lotta time in dumps like this, eatin' Gondorff's dust while the bunco squad gets rich tippin' him off. But it's not gonna happen this time. We're not even gonna let the police know we're here. If you keep your mouth shut and do a job, there'll be a promotion in it for ya. And you better take it, cause I can make ya work for us without it.
SNYDER: Wouldn't that be too bad. You'd hafta move outa this nice office ya Don't crack wise to me, flatfoot. I spent a lotta time in dumps like this, eatin' Gondorff's dust while the bunco squad gets rich tippin' him off. But it's not gonna happen this time. We're not even gonna let the police know we're here. If you keep your mouth shut and do a job, there'll be a promotion in it for ya. And you better take it, cause I can make ya work for us without it.
POLK: ( enraged ) Don't crack wise to me, flatfoot. I spent a lotta time in dumps like this, eatin' Gondorff's dust while the bunco squad gets rich tippin' him off. But it's not gonna happen this time. We're not even gonna let the police know we're here. If you keep your mouth shut and do a job, there'll be a promotion in it for ya. And you better take it, cause I can make ya work for us without it.
SNYDER: What the hell good is Hooker to ya?
POLK: He's gonna set up Gondorff for us.
SNYDER: He'll never do it.
POLK: ( self-satisfied ) I think he will.
SINGLETON: Visitation is still up by two at the three-quarters. Single Action second, Fasanella third.
BILLIE: What's the line on Visitation?
SINGLETON: ( checking further up on the print-out sheet ) 7 to 2. That ain't bad.
BILLIE: He'll probably fall down. Gondorff appears at the doorway.
GONDORFF: How ya doin'?
SINGLETON: ( eyes still glued to the ticker ) Nothin' yet. I got a good one on the lead at Hialeah, but he's fadin'.
BILLIE: Best we had was Cat's Eye in the second at Del Mar, and he was only 5-2. Not many longshots comin' in Billie. You ready? Billie prepares to write on her pad.
SINGLETON: ( excited ) Billie. You ready? Billie prepares to write on her pad.
BILLIE: Yeh, go ahead.
SINGLETON: At the finish, it's Single Action by two, Fasanella second, Visitation Line on Single Action. 3 to 2. Hell with it, that's no good. Billie crumples up the piece of paper she's been writing on and chucks it in a wastecan.
GONDORFF: We don't need big odds on this one, J.J. Take anything you get at 3-1 or better. Gondorff leaves the room, as Singleton turns back to his vigil at the ticker.
SINGLETON: ( a little weary ) Okay, the Fairfield Stakes at Santa Anita. Mile and a quarter for 3 year olds and up.
GONDORFF: He's gonna hit ya with 20 grand, Eddie. How much cash we got?
NILES: Not enough to cover a bet that big.
GONDORFF: Get a couple extra guys in the line, then. We'll give him the Niles nods.
SINGLETON: Okay, Billie, here we go. Billie snaps to and prepares to write as Singleton reads.
SINGLETON: At the wire it's Wrecking Crew the winner by five, Grand Theft second, Wingless third. Wrecking Crew was.4 to 1. That's our boy. Billie and Singleton hustle out of the room.
GONDORFF: All right, Furey, your horse is Wingless. Paltrow, the Big Alabama and Phillips'll take Grand Theft. Rodgers and Eirie have Wrecking Crew. Jackson His Dandy, Cowan Change of Heart, Fiskin and Chappie Made to Order. Eirie, he gets a bang outa seein' you lose, so we oughta use that on 'em. If you play the birds of a feather routine we worked on, it should steam him up pretty good. You think you can handle that?
EIRIE KID: ( a little nervous ) Yeh, sure.
GONDORFF: O.K., you guys in line take your time, and I wanta see lotsa joy on Wrecking Crew.
VOICE: Wrecking Crew at 4-1, Grand Theft to place, Made to Order to show. Lonnegan smiles and hangs up the phone.
LONNEGAN: ( getting impatient ) C'mon, let's hurry up there. The man at the head of the line turns around and gives Lonnegan a chilling look, as if he were beneath contempt. He puts down $25,000 on Grand Theft. The next man in line plunges down $30,000 on Wrecking Crew. Just as Lonnegan is about to step to the window, Gondorff gives a quick signal to Singleton. The speakers come on.
CALLER: Ladies and Gentlemen, this is Arnold Rowe, your caller for the $100,000 Fairfield Stakes at Hollywood Park in Los Angeles. A mile and 3/8 for three year olds and up. And they're off!
LONNEGAN: ( counting out his money ) Twenty-thousand on Wrecking Crew.
NILES: I'm sorry, sir. We can't take bets after the race is started. He points to a sign above the window, which says exactly that. Lonnegan grabs up his money in disgust.
GONDORFF: Don't take it so hard, pal. You probably woulda lost it. Lonnegan wanders over to the bar in a funk.
CALLER: And around the first turn it's Wrecking Crew by a half length, Grand Theft second by one, His Dandy is third by one half, followed by Change of Heart, Back Flip, Made to Order and High Ground. The assembled patrons are once again thoroughly involved in the race. Eirie comes up to Lonnegan at the bar.
EIRIE KID: Who you got?
LONNEGAN: ( half-heartedly ) Wrecking Crew.
EIRIE KID: Me too. Maybe it's our day. Lonnegan nods and wanders away. Hooker comes over to him.
HOOKER: What happened?
LONNEGAN: I didn't get the bet down in time.
HOOKER: ( pissed ) Oh, Jesus.
NILES: ( looking out at the floor ) Looks like he's sulking.
GONDORFF: If we're lucky, this'll bring him back stronger than ever.
THE FLOOR: Coming for home, it's Wrecking Crew by six lengths, Made to Order is second by two and a half, High Ground is third by a length and Grand Theft is coming fast on the rail. It's Wrecking Crew, Made to Order and Grand Theft. Wrecking Crew wins it by five lengths, Grand Theft is second by a nose, Made to Order is third by two. Time for one and 3/8 mile, 2:11 and 4/10 Eirie explodes in a joyous frenzy. He grabs Lonnegan by the shoulders and shakes him.
CALLER: Coming for home, it's Wrecking Crew by six lengths, Made to Order is second by two and a half, High Ground is third by a length and Grand Theft is coming fast on the rail. It's Wrecking Crew, Made to Order and Grand Theft. Wrecking Crew wins it by five lengths, Grand Theft is second by a nose, Made to Order is third by two. Time for one and 3/8 mile, 2:11 and 4/10 Eirie explodes in a joyous frenzy. He grabs Lonnegan by the shoulders and shakes him.
EIRIE KID: We won! We won! You hear that! I won 30,000! You hear that! Yeh, Lonnegan heard that. Lonnegan shakes loose, grabs his coat and heads for the door.
LONNEGAN: Tell your friend I'll have the money here by post-time tomorrow. We'll take the first race where the odds are 4-1 or better. And make sure I can get to that window this How am I gonna do that?
HOOKER: How am I gonna do that?
LONNEGAN: ( coarsely ) I don't know, figure something out. Lonnegan storms across the street to his waiting car and drives off. Hooker relaxes into a smile. He's already figured something out.
HOOKER: Meat loaf, apple pie and a cup of Hooker gives her a dollar. She goes to the register for What time you get off work here?
LORETTA: ( ringing it up ) Hooker gives her a dollar. She goes to the register for What time you get off work here?
HOOKER: What time you get off work here?
LORETTA: 2:00 A.M. You doin' anything tonight?
HOOKER: You doin' anything tonight?
LORETTA: ( handing him his change ) Yeh, sleepin'. Hooker figures that's enough of that. He pockets his change and starts out the door, when suddenly he stops short.
HOOKER: You got a back door to this place?
LORETTA: No. What's wrong with the front?
HOOKER: ( urgently now ) Look, I don't have time to fuck around. There's somebody out there I don't need to see. You got a fire escape or anything?
LORETTA: All right, do me a favor. Go into the bathroom, open the window and wait for me there.
HOOKER: All right, do me a favor. Go into the bathroom, open the window and wait for me there.
LORETTA: What the hell for?
HOOKER: Just do what I tell ya and everything'll be jake. Cracks of concern begin to appear in Loretta's marble.
LORETTA: What does this guy want?
HOOKER: ( evenly ) He'd like to kill me. Loretta just looks at him a second. Realizing that this is no joke, she turns and walks slowly but steadily to the bathroom. Hooker waits until she's out of sight.
COLE: Salino, hey look. I didn't mean to move in on. Before anything else can come out, two bullets rip into his chest. He falls to the concrete, coming to rest on a manhole cover, which we notice is slightly ajar. We:
POLK: Hello, Mr. Hooker. Captain Polk,
POLK: ( ignoring it, drinking from a cup ) You want a drink or something?
HOOKER: We want to talk to ya about Henry Don't think I know him.
POLK: We want to talk to ya about Henry Don't think I know him.
HOOKER: Don't think I know him.
POLK: Well give yourself a couple seconds, crumb. You wouldn't wanna lie to me. Lt. Snyder here says you done a lotta griftin' in this town.
HOOKER: Lt. Snyder doesn't know shit. Capt. Polk almost laughs, but he checks it.
HOOKER: You got nothin' on me.
POLK: We'll get it, and if we can't, we'll just make it up. Grand larceny, extortion. Counterfeiting, anything you want. Hooker says nothing, but it's not from defiance now. He's beginning to get the picture.
POLK: Look, I got nothin' against you, but you're in trouble here. All you gotta do is tell us when Gondorff's gonna play his chump. We come in at the sting, make the pinch, and you walk out free as a bird. No questions, no court appearance, nothing.
HOOKER: You've already done time twice, and judges don't like three time losers. You wanna sit in the can for forty years, startin' tonight?
POLK: You've already done time twice, and judges don't like three time losers. You wanna sit in the can for forty years, startin' tonight?
HOOKER: I'll make parole.
POLK: Like hell. You won't even get a review till you're seventy. And if the board starts to go soft, we'll let ya out in the yard some night with a hard-nose young bull who'll put fifty slugs in your face and ask what you were doin' there later. Hooker wants to come back with something, but can't find it.
POLK: Don't be a sap, kid. You could save us a little trouble. But Henry Gondorff is through whether you help us or not. There's nothin' left to do now but save Hooker's thoroughly whipped. He sits down for the first time.
HOOKER: ( softly ) Will you wait until the chump is Hell yes. We don't care about the mark. He deserves what he gets.
POLK: Hell yes. We don't care about the mark. He deserves what he gets.
HOOKER: ( with heat ) I mean completely played. Until he's beat and the score is taken. You come in before we beat him and I'll kill him. You'll have a tough time explaining that, won't ya.
POLK: All right, Hooker, but you take it on the lam, and we'll shoot you down on sight.
HOOKER: ( barely audible ) Just as long as I get to finish the INT. GONDORFF'S ROOM - NIGHT Gondorff and Hooker are playing gin rummy and drinking. Gondorff makes little comments as he plays, but Hooker is quiet and withdrawn. The carousel is not in operation and a heavy silence hangs over the place.
GONDORFF: What's the matter, kid? You're not sayin' much.
HOOKER: Just a little nervous, that's all.
GONDORFF: Luther always told me to bite my toenails when I get nervous. You see yourself doin' that and you realize it ain't worth it. Hooker smiles feebly. Billie appears at the door.
BILLIE: Things are a little slow tonight, Henry. I wanna open the round for the girls. Gondorff takes out a set of keys and tosses them to her. She leaves to go start the merry-go-round. Gondorff settles back into the game.
GONDORFF: Take it easy, you won't lose him now. We had him 10 years ago when he decided to be somebody. Believe me, I've seen enough to know.
HOOKER: ( softly ) How many guys you conned in your life, Henry?
GONDORFF: Two or three hundred I guess. Sometimes played two a day when I was in Shea's mob. We had it down to a business. 'Course Chicago was a right town then. The fix was in. The dicks took their end without a beef. All the Wall Street boys wanted to make investments for us. Even had marks looking us up, thinkin' they could beat the game. Yeh, kid, it really stunk. No sense in bein' a grifter if it's the same as bein' a citizen. Gondorff chucks his cards on the table. He's through for the night.
GONDORFF: I better do some packin'. I'm gonna be a hot number again after Then why you doin' it?
HOOKER: Then why you doin' it?
GONDORFF: Seems worthwhile, doesn't it? Maybe it's just for the cave-in on Lonnegan's face when we put in the That's good enough. Hooker gets up to leave.
HOOKER: ( apologetically ) I appreciate your stickin' your neck out. I wouldn't have asked ya if it weren't for Luther.
HOOKER: ( apologetically ) I appreciate your stickin' your neck out. I wouldn't have asked ya if it weren't for Luther.
HOOKER: ( apologetically ) I appreciate your stickin' your neck out. I wouldn't have asked ya if it weren't for Luther.
GONDORFF: Ain't nothin' gonna make up for Luther, kid. Revenge is for suckers. I been griftin' 30 years and never got any. Hooker just nods and walks out the door.
LORETTA: Looks like he missed ya.
HOOKER: Yeh, this time anyway. Loretta notices an old busybody peeping out at them from her room across the hall.
LORETTA: Good night, Mrs. Hillard. Mrs. Hillard quickly closes her door.
HOOKER: ( shuffling a little ) I, ah.thought you might wanna come out for a while. Maybe have a drink or somethin'.
LORETTA: You move right along, don't ya.
HOOKER: ( with more innocence than confidence ) I don't mean nothin' by it. I just don't know many regular girls, that's all.
LORETTA: And you expect me to come over, just like that.
HOOKER: If I expected somethin', I wouldn't be still standin' out here in the Loretta looks at him carefully. She knows it's not a line.
LORETTA: ( with less resistance now ) I don't even know you.
HOOKER: ( slowly ) You know me. I'm just like you. It's two in the morning and I don't know nobody. The two just stand there in silence a second. There's nothing more to say. She stands back and lets him in.
BILLIE: C'mon, Henry, knock off. You've done everything you can. Gondorff nods his agreement like a zombie and goes right on LORRETA'S ROOM Hooker and Loretta are asleep against each other, their bodies illuminated every few seconds by the light from a neon sign across the street. We dolly to the window and move in on another window in the building next door. There's no light on in it, but we can discern the basic outline of a face behind the curtains, which are slightly parted to afford a view of Hooker's room by a black-gloved hand. Cause it's gonna be rainin' outdoors." Music ends.
LORRETA'S ROOM: Hooker and Loretta are asleep against each other, their bodies illuminated every few seconds by the light from a neon sign across the street. We dolly to the window and move in on another window in the building next door. There's no light on in it, but we can discern the basic outline of a face behind the curtains, which are slightly parted to afford a view of Hooker's room by a black-gloved hand. Music ends.
THE STING: FADE OUT. FADE IN: We open on Hooker in bed, the morning sun streaming in on his face. He awakens slowly, looks at the ceiling for a second and, remembering last night, turns to the side to find that Loretta is no longer there. Still drowsy, he gets out of bed and looks around the room for a note or some evidence of her continued presence. He opens an empty closet, then opens empty drawers. Finding nothing, he suddenly hits on another possibility, and looks in his wallet. The money is still there. Almost disappointed, he slumps down in a chair, as the harsh reality of what will happen this day floods back in on him. Music begins and we:
HOOKER'S ROOM: Hooker finishes the conversation, hangs up and goes to take one last look at himself in the mirror. Finding everything in order, he grabs up his sack of possessions and leaves the EXT. HOOKER'S APARTMENT We pick him up emerging from the building, and follow him around the corner to a secluded alley which he generally takes on his way to the store. As he walks along, he notices Loretta coming toward him from the other end. She's wearing a coat, obviously on her way somewhere. As she comes closer, we move to reveal the gunman appearing suddenly in the alley behind and to the right of Hooker.
GUNMAN: She was gonna kill ya, kid. Hooker is stunned. He can't believe it.
GUNMAN: ( dragging the body over behind a trash can ) Her name's Loretta Salino. Lonnegan's people set her up in the diner. C'mon, let's get outa here. Hooker wants to stay and try to figure it all out, but the gunman drags him away.
POLK: ( to Snyder ) Whoever Gondorff's playin' for is bound to be a wheel. As soon as we're inside, I want you to get the guy outa there as fast as possible, before the reporters show up. We can't afford to embarrass any big Snyder nods.
HOOKER: She coulda killed me last night.
GUNMAN: Too many people coulda seen ya go in her room. She was a professional. Used to work in the Dutch Schultz Who are you?
HOOKER: Who are you?
GUNMAN: Gondorff asked me to look after ya.
HOOKER: How do I know you're tellin' the Don't have much choice, do ya? We go to Hooker. No, he doesn't.
GUNMAN: Don't have much choice, do ya? We go to Hooker. No, he doesn't.
VOICE: Place it on Syphon at 8-1. Lonnegan hangs up with the look of the financial killer. Eight to one odds is more than even he could have hoped for.
LONNEGAN: ( straight-faced ) Five hundred grand on Syphon. Niles is struck dumb. He's never seen that much money before.
NILES: ( playing the flustered clerk ) Hold on, I'll have to get the Niles goes and returns with Gondorff.
GONDORFF: What's the problem?
NILES: ( pointing to the brief case ) He wants to put a half million on Gondorff looks at the money a second and then looks up at Lonnegan like he's gotta be crazy.
GONDORFF: ( uneasily ) I can't lay that off in time. We lose a bet that big, it could break ( challenging ) If ya win it could make ya, too.
LONNEGAN: ( challenging ) If ya win it could make ya, too.
GONDORFF: ( to Niles ) What are the odds on Syphon?
NILES: Eight to one. Gondorff looks at Lonnegan long and hard.
GONDORFF: A half mill on an eight to one shot. You're dumber than I thought, You're more gutless than I thought. The words "Last Flash" are heard on the speaker. Gondorff looks at Lonnegan with utter contempt. He turns to Niles.
LONNEGAN: You're more gutless than I thought. The words "Last Flash" are heard on the speaker. Gondorff looks at Lonnegan with utter contempt. He turns to Niles.
GONDORFF: ( chopped ) Take it. Niles hurriedly writes out a slip for 500,000 dollars. Lonnegan, allowing himself a sly smile, picks it up and retires to a nearby table. He flashes a little okay sign to Hooker who acknowledges it with a nod.
CALLER: Ladies and gentlemen, this is Arnold Rowe, your caller for the San Antonio Handicap at Pimlico in Baltimore A mile and 1/16 for three-year-olds. And they're off. Lonnegan takes a deep breath and leans forward in his chair, the larceny boiling in his veins. Hooker looks to Gondorff. Gondorff gives him the "office." Hooker has to smile.
CALLER: And around the first turn it's King's Image by a neck, Syphon is second by one, Key to the Vault third by one half, followed by Mr. Moonlight, Red Ridge, Moneyman and No Charge. Unexpectedly, Kid Twist bursts in through the entrance. Barely able to control his enthusiasm, he hurries over to Lonnegan's table and sits down next to him.
TWIST: Sorry, but I just couldn't wait. Did everything go all right?
LONNEGAN: ( motioning for him to keep his voice down ) Take it easy. Everything's all right. I put it on Syphon, on the ( in utter horror ) On the nose! I said place. Place it on Syphon. That horse is going to run second. Lonnegan looks like he's just been stabbed. He vaults over the table to the teller's window and grabs Niles.
TWIST: ( in utter horror ) On the nose! I said place. Place it on Syphon. That horse is going to run second. Lonnegan looks like he's just been stabbed. He vaults over the table to the teller's window and grabs Niles.
LONNEGAN: You give me my goddamn money back! You hear me? There's been a mistake!
NILES: I'm sorry, sir. The betting's Lonnegan begins to shake him violently.
LONNEGAN: You give me my money back. There's been a mistake, do you hear me? Gondorff leaps to Niles' aid when suddenly there is a crash at the entrance door, and Polk, Snyder and eight federal agents burst into the room, guns drawn. The place falls silent except for the loudspeaker, the members of the boost afraid to move. Gondorff and Niles look at each other wondering how this could have possibly happened.
POLK: ( motioning to Hooker ) All right, Hooker, you can go. Hooker's eyes go to Gondorff, who looks back at him in utter disbelief, the betrayal raging in his features. Hooker, unable to meet his gaze, lowers his head and starts to walk out. Almost unnoticed, there's a flash of movement at Gondorff's belt. A small gun. A shot. Hooker clutches his back and falls dead on the floor, the blood spurting from his mouth. Polk, reacting instantly, pours four shots into Gondorff, who goes down in a heap. Pandemonium breaks loose. The members of the boost race for the door. Lonnegan is totally stunned. First he lost his money and now he's involved in a murder. Snyder rushes over to him.
SNYDER: C'mon. We gotta get you outa here.
LONNEGAN: My money's back there.
SNYDER: We'll worry about that later. Snyder gets in beside Lonnegan, and the car speeds away.
CALLER: And the winner is King's Image by four lengths, Syphon is second, by two, Moneyman third by two and one half. Time for 1 and 1/16 miles, 1:21 and 2/10 seconds. Polk walks slowly over to Hooker's body and bends down.
POLK: He's gone. Hooker opens his eyes and slowly drags himself up off the floor, spitting out a little rubber bladder, filled with blood, that he's had in his mouth. Gondorff does likewise. Niles, Twist, Singleton and the rest of the boost begin to laugh and shake hands, as do the Federal Agents.
GONDORFF: ( to Polk ) Nice con, Hickey. I thought you were Feds myself, when you first came in.
HICKEY: No problem, Henry. Snyder went for it all the way. You shoulda seen the rag he lit under Lonnegan. Gondorff turns to the others.
GONDORFF: Okay, let's take this place apart and get outa here. You can get your splits from Eddie at Boudreau's Gondorff walks over to Hooker, who's wiping the blood off his face and hands.
GONDORFF: You beat him, kid.
HOOKER: ( softly ) You were right, Henry. It's not enough. But it's close.
GONDORFF: You wanta wait for your share?
HOOKER: Naw, I'd just blow it. Gondorff nods, and walks slowly to behind the bar. He comes out with his suitcase in one hand and Hooker's paper bag in another. He throws the paper bag to Hooker, who stops by the door. Eirie Kid is standing there. Hooker gives the "office" to Eirie, who beams and gives it back.
THE END: Writers : David Ward
