FINAL DRAFT: Converted to PDF by SCREENTALK
BRUNO: ( smiling with sudden I beg your pardon, but aren't you Guy Haines. ( snapping his finger ) Sure! I saw you blast Faraday right off the court in South Orange last season. What a backhand! Made the semi-finals, didn't you?
BRUNO: ( snapping his finger ) Sure! I saw you blast Faraday right off the court in South Orange last season. What a backhand! Made the semi-finals, didn't you?
BRUNO: ( with open admiration ) I certainly admire people who do ( smiling and I'm Bruno Anthony. Bruno. See Guy looks up. Bruno indicates his gold tie pin which bears his name in cut- out letters. Guy looks at it with the faintest expression of disdain. I suppose you think it's corny. But my mother gave it to me so of course I wear it to please her.
GUY: ( patiently )( a faint How do you do.
BRUNO: ( with an apologetic I don't usually talk so much. Go Ahead and read.
GUY: ( wryly ) It must be pretty exciting to be so ( fidgeting slightly ) A tennis player isn't so important.
BRUNO: It must be pretty exciting to be so A tennis player isn't so important.
GUY: ( fidgeting slightly ) A tennis player isn't so important.
BRUNO: People who do things are important. I never seem to do anything. I suppose you're going to Southampton for the doubles.
BRUNO: ( still insistent on I suppose you're going to Southampton for the doubles.
GUY: ( politely ) You are a tennis fan.
BRUNO: Wish I could see you play. But I've got to be back in Washington tomorrow. I live in Arlington, you know.
BRUNO: Not now, thanks. I don't smoke much.
GUY: Not now, thanks. I don't smoke much.
BRUNO: I smoke too much.
BRUNO: ( he stares at the
BRUNO'S VOICE: ( reading ) To G from A. Bet I can guess who A
WIDER SHOT: Guy reacts sharply.
GUY: ( coldly ) Anne Burton. Sometimes I turn the sport page and look at the society news. And the pictures. She's very beautiful, Senator Burton's daughter.
BRUNO: Anne Burton. Sometimes I turn the sport page and look at the society news. And the pictures. She's very beautiful, Senator Burton's daughter.
GUY: You're quite a reader, Mr. Anthony.
BRUNO: Yes, I am. Ask me anything, from today's stock reports to Li'l Abner, and I got the answer.
GUY: ( sharply ) Perhaps you read too much.
BRUNO: ( contritely ) There I go again. Too friendly. I meet someone I' like and open my yap too wide. I'm sorry.
GUY: That's all right. Forget it. I guess I'm pretty jumpy.
BRUNO: There's a new cure for that. Scotch and plain water. A pair. Only kind of doubles I play.
GUY: You'll have to drink both of them.
BRUNO: ( grinning ) And I can do it. ( moving in ) When's the wedding?
GUY: The wedding. You and Anne Burton. It was in the papers.
BRUNO: The wedding. You and Anne Burton. It was in the papers.
GUY: It shouldn't have been. Unless they've legalized bigamy overnight.
BRUNO: I have a theory about that. I'd like to tell you about it some time. But right now I suppose divorce Is still the simplest operation. The waiter has brought the drinks. Bruno slips the lighter into hip pocket to free his hands for the bills which he gives to the waiter, waving away the change. He offers a glass to Guy. Guy takes it.
GUY: ( as if he needs it ) I guess I will.
BRUNO: ( happily ) This is wonderful having your company all the way to New York.
GUY: ( forced to explain ) As a matter of fact, I'm not going direct. I'm stopping off. At Metcalf? What would anybody want to go there for?
BRUNO: Metcalf? What would anybody want to go there for?
GUY: It's my home town.
BRUNO: Oh, I get it! A little talk with your wife to about the divorce! I suppose she was the girl next door. Held her hand in high school and before you knew it hooked! Am I right?
GUY: ( laconically ) Close enough.
BRUNO: ( raises his glass ) Well, here's luck, Guy. Drink up then we'll have some lunch sent to my compartment.
GUY: Thanks very much. But I think I'll go to the dining car. Do you know if there are any vacant seats in the dining car now?
WAITER: Not for about twenty minutes I'm afraid, Sir.
BRUNO: ( pleased ) See? You'll have to lunch with me. ( motions the waiter Say, waiter, bring me some lamb chops and French fries and chocolate ice cream, Compartment D, Car 121. ( turns to Guy ) What'll you have, Guy?
GUY: Thanks just the same, but I really don't think
BRUNO: Oh, go on and order. Well, I'll Just have a hamburger and a cup of coffee.
GUY: Well, I'll Just have a hamburger and a cup of coffee.
BRUNO: ( delighted, lifts his To the next Mrs. Haines.
BRUNO: Sure, I went to college. Three of them. Every time they kicked me out my father threw me back in. He finally gave up. He thinks I'm awfully small fry, not worth the You my friend, Guy?
GUY: Sure. I'm your friend, Bruno.
BRUNO: ( a little woozy ) No, you're not, nobody thinks I'm anything special. Only my mother. ( empties the bottle My father hates me.
GUY: You must be imagining things.
BRUNO: ( hitting the bottom And I hate him. He thinks I ought to catch the eight-five bus every morning, punch a timeclock and work my way up selling paint or something. Him with all his money!
GUY: ( amused by Bruno ) Well, what do you want to do?
BRUNO: You mean before or after I kill him?
GUY: ( chuckling ) Before, of course.
BRUNO: ( leaning forward I want to do everything. I got a theory you're supposed to do everything before you die. Have you ever driven a car, blindfolded, at a hundred and fifty miles an hour?
GUY: Not lately.
BRUNO: I did. I flew in a jet plans too. Zzzzzzzp! Man, that's a thrill! Almost blow the sawdust out of my head. I'm going to make a reservation on the first rocket to the moon.
GUY: ( amused and curious ) What are you trying prove?
BRUNO: I'm not like you, Guy. You're lucky. You're smart. Marrying the boss's daughter is a nice short cut to a career, isn't it?
GUY: ( quickly ) Marrying the senator's daughter has nothing to do with it. Can't a fellow look past a tennis not without being a goldbricker?
BRUNO: Take it easy, boy. I'm your friend, remember? I'd do anything for you.
GUY: ( humoring Bruno ) Sure, Bruno, sure.
BRUNO: What'd you say her name was your That's it. Miriam Joyce Haines. Played around a lot, I suppose?
GUY: That's it. Miriam Joyce Haines. Played around a lot, I suppose?
BRUNO: That's it. Miriam Joyce Haines. Played around a lot, I suppose?
GUY: Let's not talk about it any more.
BRUNO: ( almost hopefully ) Maybe she'll make more trouble for I don't think so.
GUY: I don't think so.
BRUNO: You mean you got enough on her to get your divorce no matter what?
GUY: Let's change subject, Bruno, can't Okay, Guy. Want me to tell you one of my ideas for murdering my father?
BRUNO: Okay, Guy. Want me to tell you one of my ideas for murdering my father?
GUY: ( indicating the You've been reading too many of these.
BRUNO: ( going right on ) You want to hear about the busted light socket in the bathroom, or the carbon monoxide in the garage?
GUY: No. I may be old fashioned, but I thought murder was against the law.
BRUNO: But not against the law of nature. My theory is that everybody is a potential murderer. Didn't you ever want to kill somebody? Say one of those useless fellows Miriam was running around with?
GUY: You can't go around killing people just because you think they're Oh, what's a life or two? Some people are bitter off dead, Guy. Take your wife and my father, for instance. It reminds me of a wonderful idea had once. I used to put myself to sleep at night figuring it out. Now, let's say you want to get rid of your wife.
BRUNO: Oh, what's a life or two? Some people are bitter off dead, Guy. Take your wife and my father, for instance. It reminds me of a wonderful idea had once. I used to put myself to sleep at night figuring it out. Now, let's say you want to get rid of your wife.
GUY: Let's say she refuses to give you a Let's say. You'd be afraid to kill her because you'd get caught. And what would trip you up? Motive. Now here's the plan.
BRUNO: Let's say she refuses to give you a Let's say. You'd be afraid to kill her because you'd get caught. And what would trip you up? Motive. Now here's the plan.
GUY: I'm afraid I haven't time to listen.
BRUNO: ( ignoring the remark ) It's so simple, too. A couple of fellows meet accidentally, like you and me. No connection between them at all. Never saw each other before. Each of them has somebody he'd like to get rid of, but he can't murder the person he wants to get rid of. He'll get caught. So they swap Swap murders?
GUY: Swap murders?
BRUNO: Each fellow does the other fellow's murder. Then there is nothing to connect them. The one who had the motive isn't there. Each fellow murders a total stranger. Like you do my murder and I do yours.
GUY: ( with relief ) We're coming into my station.
BRUNO: For example, your wife, my father. We do talk the same language don't we, Guy?
GUY: ( sharply ) ( with a smile ) We do talk the same language don't we, Guy?
BRUNO: ( with a smile ) We do talk the same language don't we, Guy?
GUY: ( preparing to leave ) Sure, we talk the same language. Thanks for the lunch.
BRUNO: ( beaming ) I'm glad you enjoyed it. I thought the lamb chops were a little overdone
GUY: Nice meeting you, Bruno.
BRUNO: ( detaining him at the You think my theory is okay, Guy? You like it?
GUY: Sure, sure, Bruno. They're all okay.
BRUNO: ( smiling )
GUY: Hi, Bill.
BAGGAGE MAN: ( smiling ) Guy Haines! Good to too you, boy. You be sure to win at Southampton tomorrow, hear me? I've got two dollars on your nose.
GUY: ( indicating his Then park these in a lucky spot for a few hours, will you?
BAGGAGE MAN: Sure thing.
MIRIAM: ( taking money from Even change. Thank you, Madam. ( she looks up at Guy Well hello, Guy.
GUY: You're looking well, Miriam.
MIRIAM: So are you. You've got a nice tan, playing tennis with all your rich What time do we meet your lawyer?
GUY: ( ignoring the remark ) What time do we meet your lawyer?
MIRIAM: ( sly little smile ) What's your hurry?
GUY: My hurry? That's funny, coming from you! You're the one who's in a hurry, aren't you?
MIRIAM: ( coyly ) When you wouldn't give me the divorce right away, I sort of hoped it was because you were a little bit jealous.
GUY: ( biting ) I got over being jealous, a long time ago Miriam.
MIRIAM: ( indicating empty Let's talk in there.
MIRIAM: ( intimately ) Now this is cosier. Sort of like old times, isn't it, Guy?
GUY: ( coldly ) Oh, skip it, Miriam. It's pretty late to start flirting with a discarded husband. Especially when you're going to have another man's Do you know, I think you're handsomer than ever?
MIRIAM: Do you know, I think you're handsomer than ever?
GUY: Let's see your lawyer and get this over with.
MIRIAM: Did you bring the money, Guy? Lawyers are expensive.
GUY: ( taking money from Here it is.
MIRIAM: ( taking the money If I'd known what all that tennis nonsense of yours was going to lead to, I wouldn't have run out on you.
GUY: What are you trying to say, Miriam? Come out with it.
MIRIAM: ( tucking the bills I'm not getting a divorce.
GUY: ( tense and angry ) Why, you little doublecrosser. I didn't want this divorce, you did. That's what you've been harping about for the past year.
MIRIAM: It's a woman's privilege to change her mind. Now I can shop for some pretty clothes. I wouldn't want you to be ashamed of me in Washington when we go to all those dinners and swanky parties.
GUY: And what do you mean by that?
MIRIAM: ( Coyly ) Don't look so mad, Guy. You always smile when your picture is being taken for the papers.
GUY: Let's not talk about Anne Burton.
MIRIAM: So, it's really serious between you two? Well, you can throw your dreams about her into the ashcan. Guy, I'm coming to Washington.
GUY: What for?
MIRIAM: To have my baby and be with you.
GUY: Why me? It's not my baby.
MIRIAM: But people don't know that, Guy, do they? It would make a pretty story, wouldn't it the senator's daughter involved with a married man who's about to become a father.
GUY: ( furiously ) You black conniving little liar!
MIRIAM: Keep your voice down.
GUY: What happened? Did he run out on No man runs out on me. Not even You're a liar and a cheat, Miriam. You've wanted to get rid of me long enough and now I'll go you one better I never want to see or hear of you Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org 18.
MIRIAM: No man runs out on me. Not even You're a liar and a cheat, Miriam. You've wanted to get rid of me long enough and now I'll go you one better I never want to see or hear of you Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org 18.
GUY: You're a liar and a cheat, Miriam. You've wanted to get rid of me long enough and now I'll go you one better I never want to see or hear of you Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org 18.
MIRIAM: ( demurely ) I could be very pathetic as the deserted little mother in a courtroom, Guy. Think it over. Who would believe you?
GUY: .That's what should happen to people like you. And if I.
HARGREAVES: ( interrupts ) Break it up, folks. This isn't the place for a family quarrel.
GUY: ( his eyes blazing ) Sorry. I'm leaving.
MIRIAM: ( yelling like a You heard what I said, Guy Haines. You can't throw me away like an old shoe. I'm coming to Washington to have my baby. Tell that to the
GUY: Long distance. I want Washington, D. C. The number is Republic 0800. Person to person. Miss Anne Burton.
GUY: ( continuing )
GUY: ( tautly, into phone ) Anne, Anne darling. Yes, I'm in ( gets a grip on himself ) No, everything didn't go smoothly. She doesn't want a divorce, not Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org 20.
ANNE: ( after a pause then Another man's child! But she can't do that to you, Guy it's unbelievable it's, it's evil! ( she listens, then Yes, I know how you must feel. ( pause ) But you sound so savage.
GUY: ( furiously ) Sure I sound savage. I feel savage. I'd like to break her neck! ( a pause, then raising I said I'd like to break her foul, poisonous, useless little neck! ( the connection is What's that?
GUY: I SAID I COULD STRANGLE HER!
MRS. ANTHONY: Since you insisted on a manicure, dear, I do wish you'd keep your hands quiet. You're so restless lately.
BRUNO: ( almost dreamily as I like them to look just right.
MRS. ANTHONY: Did I file them too short?
BRUNO: No, Ma. They look fine. Thanks.
MRS. ANTHONY: Then what's the matter?
BRUNO: I'm all right, Ma. Don't worry about You look so Pale, dear. Are you out of vitamins?
MRS. ANTHONY: You look so Pale, dear. Are you out of vitamins?
BRUNO: I bought a bottle of them yesterday. A whole fifth.
MRS. ANTHONY: ( anxiously ) But you have that 'look'. I can always tell. You haven't got into any more mischief, Bruno?
MRS. ANTHONY: I do hope you've forgotten about that silly little plan of yours?
BRUNO: ( sharply ) Which one?
MRS. ANTHONY: ( smiling ) About blowing up the White House?
BRUNO: ( his eyes dancing ) I was only kidding, Ma. Besides, what would the president say?
MRS. ANTHONY: ( laughing gaily ) You're a naughty boy, Bruno. But you can always make me laugh. ( she rises ) Now get shaved, dear, before your father gets home.
BRUNO: I'm sick and tired of bowing and scraping to the king.
MRS. ANTHONY: ( placating him ) Now, now, Let's not lose control. Come see my painting, dear ( she leads him toward I do wish you'd take up painting. It's such a soothing pastime.
INSERT: The painting is a horrible mess. Out of the violence of the pattern a man's face can be discerned, wild-eyed and distorted. We hear laughter from Bruno.
BRUNO: You're wonderful, Ma! It's the old boy, all right. That's father!
MRS. ANTHONY: ( bewildered ) It is? I was trying to paint Saint
BUTLER: ( to Bruno ) They are ready with your call to Southampton, Sir. ( to her husband ) How nice that you're early, Charles. I'll tell cook.. Just a minute, Eunice. ( calls after Bruno ) Bruno! Come here! I want to talk to you and your mother.
MRS. ANTHONY: ( to her husband ) How nice that you're early, Charles. I'll tell cook.. Just a minute, Eunice. ( calls after Bruno ) Bruno! Come here! I want to talk to you and your mother.
MR. ANTHONY: Just a minute, Eunice. Bruno! Come here! I want to talk to you and your mother.
BRUNO: ( calls back to his Sorry father. Long distance. ( he picks up the
BRUNO: ( eagerly into phone ) ( pause ) Bruno, Bruno Anthony.
BRUNO: I just wanted to ask how you made out with Miriam.
GUY: ( puzzled ) ( listens ) Metcalf? Who'd you say you were?
CLOSEUP BRUNO: ( sotto voce ) Bruno, Guy. Bruno Anthony. Don't you remember? On the train.
BRUNO: ( sotto voce ) Bruno, Guy. Bruno Anthony. Don't you remember? On the train.
MRS. ANTHONY: I never permit it!
BRUNO: ( softly ) Are you getting your divorce?
BRUNO: ( into phone, with So she double-crossed you! Are you going to see her again?
MED. SHOT: SHOOTING DOWN onto a small seat by a bus stop, we see Bruno with an open newspaper in front of him. It is held up as he reads it.
CLOSEUP: Bruno is glancing over the top of the paper.
LONG SHOT: From his viewpoint we see a typical frame house. The upper windows are lit as are the lower ones as well. A woman is sitting in a rocker on the front porch. This is MRS. JOYCE, Miriam's mother. She has white hair. A woman comes along the street and pauses as she gets to Mrs. Joyce.
WOMAN: ( calls out as she Hello Mrs. Joyce. Warm, ain't it?
MRS. JOYCE: That it is.
WOMAN: I've been reading where your son-in- law's been coming right along at We don't have any interest in tennis any more.
MRS. JOYCE: ( sourly ) We don't have any interest in tennis any more.
CLOSE UP: Bruno, still glancing over the top of his paper.
LONG SHOT: Again from Bruno's viewpoint, we see Miriam's house. At this moment the front door swings open, emitting a long streak ot bright light. We see the silhouette of a woman emerge, followed by two other men. They're laughing and joking. Suddenly they look up the street. At this very moment the bus pulls up in front of Bruno's view, cutting off the sight of his quarry. The bus comes to a stop.
CLOSE SHOT: Bruno rises in alarm and moves around toward the end of the bus so that he shall not lose sight of the girl coming out of the house.
MRS. JOYCE: Don't you stay out too late, Miriam.
MIRIAM: ( calling back ) Goodnight, Mother. See you later.
CLOSE UP: Bruno watches Miriam.
MED. SHOT: Miriam comes nearer and nearer to Bruno. With her two companions she brushes past him and jumps onto the bus. THE
CLOSE SHOT: Miriam's eye catches the attention of something off screen.
MED. SHOT: As Bruno starts to advance in the direction of Miriam he is momentarily held up by a small boy in cowboy uniform carrying a gun and a balloon. The small boy points the gun at Bruno.
CLOSE UP: The small boy turns and looks with dismay at his pricked balloon, wondering what happened.
MEDIUM SHOT: Miriam and her two boy-friends by the sledge hammer concession where the aim is to swing the hammer hard enough down onto its target to ring the bell and register the 100 mark. Miriam is in the foreground of the shot. The first boy steps up to try his hand. As he swings, Miriam turns and glances about her, obviously looking for Bruno.
MEDIUM SHOT: The first boy having failed to ring the bell, the second stops up and slams the hammer down.
CLOSE SHOT: The register shooting up only to the hallway mark.
CLOSE SHOT: Bruno looks down at his hands.
INSERT: Bruno's two strong hands - as he holds them palms tilted upward and fingers curled in.
CLOSE UP: Bruno, as he smiles faintly, glancing across at Miriam.
CLOSE SHOT: With a studied movement, Bruno picks up the handle of the hammer and swings.
CLOSE SHOT: The register shoots up to the 100 mark and rings the bell.
MEDIUM SHOT: Bruno drops the hammer and glances around at Miriam again. Her two boy-friends are calling for her from a little
BOY'S VOICE: Come On, Miriam. Come On!
BACKGROUND: Bruno turns to follow Miriam, his manner casual. As he takes a few steps, WE PAN ACROSS with him until, over his shoulder, we see a merry-go-round in the background. Miriam and the two boys are aboard and climbing onto horses. As Bruno goes toward the merry-go-round, the CAMERA MOVES UP A LITTLE with him. The merry-go-round starts to move slowly round as Bruno hops on.
MEDIUM SHOT: The horses of the merry-go-round are filling the screen as they whizz by, and again we get the picture of Bruno chasing Miriam as they rush past the CAMERA, the music and tempo at a high speed.
MEDIUM SHOT: Miriam and her companions are escorted to a small boat with electric motor. Once they are seated the boat chugs away from the landing stage and off into the darkness. Bruno steps into the foreground and gets into the next boat which floats alongside. He, too, moves away into the ENTRANCE TO THE TUNNEL As Miriam's boat passes through, she gives another little glance over shoulder before her boat disappears into the darkness of the tunnel. After a brief moment Bruno's boat comes into the picture, and it, too, goes into the tunnel.
MIRIAM: ( squealing ) George, stop it, I tell you!
MIRIAM: ( protesting George, no!
GEORGE'S VOICE: Miriam backs out of the bushes until the back of her head is in CLOSEUP in the foreground of the shot. Suddenly she hears steps in back of her and turns her head toward CAMERA. Her face changes as she recognizes someone offscene.
MIRIAM: She gives a coy smile of recognition. CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal the mad and shoulders of Bruno between Miriam and the camera. His hand holds Guy's lighter which he flicks on as he raises it above Miriam's face. 0f Bruno, we see only the back of his head and shoulders.
BRUNO: Is your name Miriam?
MIRIAM: ( with surprise ) Why yes. How did you
CLOSE SHOT: Miriam's glasses hit the ground. The shadows of their struggling figures over the shot.
CLOSE UP: They are of the diminishing type. Against the moonlit sky we see reflected, the elongated struggling figures, as though we were shooting up at them. Suddenly one of the figures falls forward.
CLOSE UP: Miriam's head drops into the picture by the glasses. Bruno's hand comes into the picture and picks up the glasses. One of the lenses has been broken by Miriam's fall. As we see Bruno's sport shoes move away, the CAMERA MOVES PAST MIRIAM'S HEAD until it comes to Guy's lighter pressed into the earth.
VOICES: Miriam! Miriam! Where are you?
MEDIUM SHOT: Bruno comes to the shore where his boat is moored. He gets in and is quickly chugging away. He moves calmly, matter-of- fact and not furtively.
VOICES: Hey, here she is! What's the matter with her? Has she fainted?
VOICE: ( crying out ) She is dead!
OTHER VOICE: ( from island ) Help! Help!
BOATMAN: Got a cop!
BLIND MAN: He goes off. Bruno looks back toward the park, then glances down at his INSERT BRUNO'S WRISTWATCH The time is 9.30.
CLOSE SHOT: The feet opposite Guy stretch out and touch Guy's feet.
CLOSEUP GUY: He lowers his paper and looks across.
MED. SHOT: The drunk opposite Guy looks down at his feet and then up to Guy resentfully as though Guy had kicked him. He eyes Guy up and down, then suddenly, without warning, bursts into song, to the tune of the Barber Shop Chord.
COLLINS: There was a man, now please take note. There was a man who had a goat. He loved that goat, Indeed he did. He loved that goat, just like a kid. What is your opinion?
GUY: ( amused ) You'll never make the Metropolitan.
COLLINS: ( fuzzily pumping Name's Collins. On sabbatical - Delaware Tech. Glad to meet you. I jus' gave a speech in New York. On integration. In the differential calculus a function is given and its differential is obtained. Understand?
GUY: ( solemnly ) Sure, I understand.
COLLINS: ( resentfully )
MED. SHOT: Guy gets out of the taxi with his rackets and bag, pays the driver and goes up the steps to the front door of his CLOSE SHOT As Guy is about to enter the front door and we see his name posted on a small card as one of the several tenants, he hears a soft call from across the street.
CLOSE SHOT: As Guy is about to enter the front door and we see his name posted on a small card as one of the several tenants, he hears a soft call from across the street.
VOICE: ( softly )
VOICE: Over here, Guy.
MED. SHOT: Guy reaches the other side of the street and still puzzled and cautious, approaches the dark alleyway.
MED. SHOT: After a moment a figure steps out of the darkness. It is Bruno. He steps back into the darkness again as Guy comes up to him.
TWO SHOT: ( cheerfully ) Hello, Guy.
BRUNO: ( cheerfully ) Hello, Guy.
GUY: ( recognizes Bruno What are you doing here? At this time of night?
BRUNO: ( a little sadly ) You don't seem very pleased to see me, Guy.
BRUNO: ( pleased again ) I brought you a little present.
GUY: What do you mean?
INSERT: Guy's hands taking Miriam's glasses from Bruno. One of the lenses is broken.
TWO SHOT: As Guy takes the glasses he looks at Bruno in bewilderment.
GUY: What's this all about?
BRUNO: Recognize them?
CLOSEUP GUY: He looks down at the glasses, mystified. He looks up again to Bruno.
CLOSEUP BRUNO: It was very quick, Guy. She wasn't hurt in any way. It was all over in no time.
BRUNO: It was very quick, Guy. She wasn't hurt in any way. It was all over in no time.
CLOSEUP GUY: He is horrified. He looks swiftly down at the glasses in his hand, then back to Bruno.
BRUNO'S VOICE: ( bragging ) I know you'd be surprised. Nothing for us to worry about. Nobody saw me, only Miriam.
TWO SHOT: Guy can hardly believe what he is hearing.
BRUNO: I was very careful. Even when I dropped your lighter there, I went right back to it up. If It'd been found, it would have ruined our whole scheme, wouldn't it?
GUY: Are you trying to tell me you've Why, you maniac!
BRUNO: ( looks at Guy with But, Guy, you wanted it! We planned it on the train together, remember?
BRUNO: Where are you going?
GUY: Where do you think I'm going? I'm going to call the police, of course.
BRUNO: But you can't, Guy. We'd both be arrested for murder.
GUY: We'd both be arrested for murder?
BRUNO: You're is much in it as I am. We planned it together. Criss-cross. I do your murder
GUY: ( suddenly angry ) You crazy fool! You think you can get away with that?
BRUNO: ( a little hurt ) Oh, come now, Guy. Why should I go to Metcalf and kill a total stranger, unless it was part of the plan and you were in on it? You're the one that benefits, Guy. You're a free man. I didn't even know the girl.
GUY: Let me go, Bruno. I had nothing to do with this and the police will believe me.
BRUNO: ( concerned ) If you go to the police now, you'll just be turning yourself in as in accessory. You see, you have the
BRUNO: What is it?
GUY: My telephone.
BRUNO: ( amused ) Someone has some news for you, Guy.
TWO SHOT: Bruno pulls Guy back further into the shadows. Guy instinctively flattens himself against the wall. He looks across the street again.
TWO SHOT: Guy is still flattened against the wall to keep out of light.
BRUNO: Tell them you know about it already, Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org 44.
CLOSEUP GUY: He looks across at the police, then down at himself with some surprise and disgust, then over at Bruno, suddenly conscious he is behaving like a criminal and that Bruno is responsible for his predicament.
GUY: ( muttering ) You've got me acting, like a criminal, you crazy fool!
BRUNO: Don't you call me that.
TWO SHOT: You must be tired, Guy. I know I am. I've sure had a strenuous
BRUNO: You must be tired, Guy. I know I am. I've sure had a strenuous
BRUNO: Now look, Guy, about my father. I have the plans made. Two plans. A plan of the grounds and a plan of the house. I have in old Luger I bought at a pawn shop in San Francisco. My father
TWO SHOT: Bruno follows Guy and we FOLLOW them across the street. CAMERA ON THEIR BACKS. Guy strides ahead to the house.
BRUNO: Wait a minute, Guy. To have to talk. We have to arrange things.
GUY: ( furiously ) Get away before I give you what you gave Miriam.
BRUNO: ( sadly ) You're not yourself, Guy. You're tired. When you think things over, you'll see I'm right. Tomorrow
GUY: ( with finality ) I don't know you. I never saw you before. I never want to see you
BRUNO: ( to the closed door ) But we have to
GUY: ( hoarsely, into phone ) ( Pause ) Yes, Anne. I'm sorry, darling. I just got in. ( pause ) Of course I'm all right.
GUY: ( holding her close ) Anne darling, you're trembling.
ANNE: ( her fingers gently I wonder if you know how much I love
GUY: ( forcing a smile ) Brazen woman. I'm the one to say Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org 47.
ANNE: ( tensely ) But I wanted you to know, before. ( forcing herself to Before we go into the living room.
CLOSEUP GUY: He looks apprehensively in direction of the living room, conscious of what the news is to be, but covering up.
CLOSEUP GUY: He steels himself for the long walk across the hall and the living room.
CLOSEUP ANNE: Watching Guy closely.
MED. SHOT: As Guy starts to make the long trek across the living room, with Anne behind him
GUY: ( stiffly ) Good evening, sir. Hello, Babs.
BARBARA: Something awful has happened, Guy.
SENATOR: ( firmly ) Sit down, Barbara.
SENATOR: ( finding it difficult There seems to be no way of diplomatically breaking tragic news. I'm sorry, Guy, to be the one to tell you. It concerns your wife. She's been murdered.
BARBARA: The police have been using everything but radar to locate you.
SENATOR: You're to call Headquarters at
GUY: ( with inner tension ) She was.strangled.
ANNE: ( with inner tension ) She was.strangled.
SENATOR: ( wrylt, to Guy ) It happened on an island in an amusement park. It was sort of a lovers lane, I believe. A rather sordid atmosphere.
BARBARA: ( quickly, to Guy ) Miriam went there with two boys. They were the ones who found her. So they're not suspects. But you probably will be.
SENATOR: Young lady, we can't overlook the fact that murder is at our doorsteps. But I forbid you to drag it into the living room!
BARBARA: ( wide-eyed ) Let's not fool ourselves. The police will say Guy wanted Miriam out of the way so he could marry Anne. In a crime of this sort the police first go after the husband, and Guy had every motive.
SENATOR: ( aghast ) ( quietly ) She's right. Whichever way you look at it.I'm in a spot.
GUY: ( quietly ) She's right. Whichever way you look at it.I'm in a spot.
SENATOR: ( disconcerted but Oh come now, my boy. I'm sure you have nothing to worry about.
BARBARA: ( flatly ) If he hasn't an alibi for nine-thirty tonight he has plenty to worry about.
ANNE: ( who hasn't taken You can tell them where you were, can't you, Guy?
GUY: ( wearily ) At nine-thirty I was on the train from New York to Washington.
SENATOR: ( relieved ) There you are.
BARBARA: Who saw you? Did you speak to anyone? You'll need a Witness, you know.
GUY: ( as if it didn't matter ) Yes, I spoke to someone.
SENATOR: ( hopefully ) Anyone you know?
GUY: No. His name was Collins. He is a University of Virginia.
SENATOR: ( brightening ) University of Virginia.
GUY: University of Virginia.
CLOSEUP ANNE: Her face shows her relief that Guy can account for his time.
ANNE: Then everything's's all right.
BARBARA: Not quite. Detectives play a game called Motive, Motive, Who'd got the I'm sick of hearing that word!
ANNE: ( near the breaking I'm sick of hearing that word!
BARBARA: He'll still have to answer questions.
SENATOR: Routine. Pure routine.
GUY: I'm afraid there'll be a lot of reporters at your front door in the Daddy doesn't mind a little scandal. He's a senator.
BARBARA: Daddy doesn't mind a little scandal. He's a senator.
ANNE: ( answering Guy's look ) It can't be helped, darling. It is not your fault. It's not as though anyone can say you had something to do with it.
GUY: Someone might say it.I'd do anything to keep you all out of this mess.
SENATOR: Profit by my experience, Guy. Never lose any sleep over accusations. Unless they can be proved, of course. We'll help all we can. Dreadful business, dreadful. That poor unfortunate girl.
BARBARA: ( flatly ) She was a tramp.
SENATOR: ( pontificially ) She was a human being. let me remind you that even the most unworthy of us has the right to life and the pursuit of happiness.
BARBARA: ( unimpressed ) From what I hear, she pursued it in all directions.
SENATOR: Father, it's getting terribly late, and Guy looks so tired.
ANNE: Father, it's getting terribly late, and Guy looks so tired.
SENATOR: ( quickly ) Of course, of course. Back to bed, ( ignoring this - to Well, you two. Nothing stands in your way now. You can be married right away. Think of it you're
BARBARA: ( ignoring this - to Well, you two. Nothing stands in your way now. You can be married right away. Think of it you're
SENATOR: ( to Barbara ) One doesn't always have to say what one thinks!
BARBARA: ( sweetly ) Father, I'm not a politician.
SENATOR: You won't forget that call, Guy? Captain Turley.
GUY: Yes sir. Goodnight.
BARBARA: I still think it would be wonderful to have a man love you so much he'd kill for you.
TWO SHOT: Left alone, Guy and Anne embrace. Anne's nervous tension comes to the surface in a flood of relief.
ANNE: I told myself over and over I was being silly, but there was one horrible moment tonight when the news came through. I kept remembering what you shouted telephone from That I could strang.
GUY: That I could strang.
ANNE: Don't even say it. Forget you ever said it. Even more terrifying than the murder itself, Guy, was the awful thought that if you had anything to do with it we'd be separated, -perhaps forever. I'd never see you again. I couldn't bear it.
GUY: Captain Turley's office?
GUY: Captain Turley is expecting me. Guy Just a moment, Mr. Haines.
SERGEANT: Just a moment, Mr. Haines.
CLOSEUP GUY: He now has time to take stock of the waiting people. He catches his breath when he sees:
MRS. JOYCE: ( a fierce whisper ) You'll pay for this!
CLOSEUP GUY: Guy nods in returns.
MED. SHOT: The two boys who were with Miriam at the amusement park. They look at Guy with interest.
MED. SHOT: Seated behind Guy, apart from the others who are waiting, is Professor Collins, Guy's drunken companion on the train of the night before. The professor is completely sober now, dignified and erect. He has removed his glasses to polish them and does not react to Guy's presence.
CLOSEUP GUY: Guy starts with a smile of recognition to say, "How do you do?" but at that moment he hears the door open and his name
SERGEANT'S VOICE: Will you come in, please, Mr. Haines?
MED. SHOT: Guy breaks away from his uncompleted greeting to the professor and goes through the door to Captain Turley's office, followed by the eyes of the waiting people.
CAPTAIN TURLEY: Good of you to be so prompt, Mr. Haines. This is Lieutenant Campbell. Won't you sit down?
GUY: Thank you, sir.
CAPTAIN TURLEY: I know you're a busy man, so we won't detain you any longer than necessary.Now you already been good enough to tell us where you were last evening, and we've managed to locate the gentleman you spoke with on the train.
GUY: ( brightening ) Yes. I saw him outside.
CAMPBELL: ( at open door ) Will you come in please, professor?
CLOSEUP GUY: He looks up eagerly.
MED. SHOT: Professor Collins comes in and sits in a chair opposite Guy.
TURLEY: Professor Collins, this is Mr. Haines. He was with you on the train last Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org 57.
COLLINS: I'm terribly sorry, but I really don't remember meeting this gentleman.
CLOSEUP GUY: Surprised. His confident expression fades.
COLLINS: ( apologetically ) Unfortunately, I remember very little about the journey from New York.You see, there had been a little
GUY: But we were sitting opposite each other in the observation car! You were singing a song about a goat
COLLINS: ( incredulously ) A goat?
GUY: ( urgently ) And calculus. You were going over a speech you'd made.
COLLINS: I was? I'm sorry, Mr. Halnes. I certainly must have celebrated! I can't remember you at all.
CLOSEUP GUY: Momentarily Guy is frustrated, then he turns quietly to Guy asks this question with a look of near triumph that he has clearly established his alibi.
GUY: ( calmly, logically ) Captain, is it so important whether or not Professor Collins remember me? Surely, the important thing is that I've been able to name a man who was on the train with me. You've been able to find him. Isn't that proof of where I was at nine-thirty last night?
ANNE: Hello, darling. Have you had your On the train.
GUY: On the train.
ANNE: You weren't in Metcalf all this time? We expected you hours ago.
BARBARA: ( flatly ) I didn't. They sometimes throw a suspect in the can and keep him there all night.
SENATOR: ( after a disapproving Sit down, Guy. Sit down. Give him some coffee, Anne.
GUY: ( morosely ) When an alibi is full of bourbon, sir, it can't stand up.
BARBARA: You mean the professor was boiled?
GUY: Completely. He didn't remember me.
ANNE: But, you knew he was on the train! Wasn't that enough to prove you were on it, too?
GUY: Apparently not at the right time. They suggested I could have caught the train at Baltimore after Miriam was murdered. They had it all worked in their timetables.
ANNE: ( growing indignant That's ridiculous. They're acting as if you were guilty.
BARBARA: ( somewhat subdued and Everything will be all right, Anne. The police were just being thorough ( she's unsure of Weren't they, daddy?
SENATOR: I certainly hope so. What is your next step?
GUY: ( wryly ) Whatever it is, the police will know it. They gave me a present come take a look.
GUY: ( continuing ) My guardian angel. ( impressed ) You're being tailed!
BARBARA: ( impressed ) You're being tailed!
GUY: ( turning to them ) That's Leslie Hennessy. He works sixteen hours a day. Somebody else takes over for the next eight. ( drops the curtain, As a matter of fact, Hennessy's a very nice fellow.
BARBARA: Shouldn't we ask him in for Coffee or something?
SENATOR: I'll have him called off immediately of course.
GUY: ( calmly ) I'm afraid where I go, Hennessy goes. Even to the Senate.
SENATOR: ( Pausing with his cup Is he likely to picket my office?
GUY: Very likely.
SENATOR: I would suggest, Guy, for your own peace of mind, of course, that you work here at the house for a few It would be less embarrassing for
GUY: ( hopelessly ) Then what about practicing? Perhaps I'd better forget Forest Hills?
SENATOR: My dear boy, wouldn't it look rather awkward if you suddenly canceled all your plans.
ANNE: He's right, Guy. You mustn't do anything that would look suspicious. You've got to carry on as though nothing has happened.
BARBARA: ( pointing out the Escorted by Mr. Hennessy.
RANDALL: A call for you, Mr. Haines. They say it is urgent.
GUY: INT. TELEPHONE BOOTH BIG HEAD CLOSEUP OF BRUNO His face wears the most affable expression.
BRUNO: Hello, Guy. I tried your apartment, Why, Guy, this is Bruno!
GUY: Must be some mistake. It wasn't for
FADE IN: EXT. WASHINGTON STREET APPROACHING JEFFERSONS MEMORIAL DAY Guy and HENNESSY are walking along the street together, CAMERA MOVING WITH THEM. Their relationship is most friendly. Guy carries a briefcase. Hennessy is an amiable but not gullible young man in his early thirties. He knows his job, is well groomed, well educated, and well liked.
GUY: Well, I suppose I was pretty lucky to be seeded fifth, really.
HENNESSY: I've never seen the Forest Hillss tournament before. I'm looking forward to it.
GUY: ( wryly ) Do you mean we'll be going there together, Hennessy?
HENNESSY: Oh, don't worry. This thing will be cleared up by that time. Ever thought of turning professional, I won't have to do that. When I'm through with tennis. I'll be going into politics, I hope.
GUY: I won't have to do that. When I'm through with tennis. I'll be going into politics, I hope.
HENNESSY: ( aghast ) Politics! It's a good thing for you I don't report that to the chief.
HENNESSY'S VOICE: If he knew you were getting into that rat-race
HENNESSY: He'd put ten men on your trail. He says
GUY: ( interrupts ) Let's take this cab. It's getting
GUY: Pentagon Building, please.
HENNESSY: Oh, no, not there! I always get
MEDIUM SHOT: Guy looks off for a moment with set face, then tearing the note into shreds, crosses to a small desk, lights a match and holds it to the fragments, letting them burn and fall into an ash tray. Guy looks off for a moment with set face, then tearing the note into shreds, crosses to a small desk, lights a match and holds it to the fragments, letting them burn and fall into an ash tray.
ANNE: Well, we'd better be getting back.
GUY: We've actually been alone for an hour. Seems almost indecent. You I like.
ANNE: ( softly ) I like.
GUY: I was beginning to feel like a So was I. When we build our house, darling, we won't even have glass windows. No doorbells, no newspapers, no telephone
ANNE: So was I. When we build our house, darling, we won't even have glass windows. No doorbells, no newspapers, no telephone
GUY: No Hennessy.
ANNE: ( suddenly serious ) How long can it go on?
GUY: I don't know. I suppose until they find out who did it.
ANNE: We'll be happier then, won't we?
GUY: I suppose so.
BRUNO: ( softly )
CLOSEUP: Anne watches Guy approach this stranger. She looks downward at Bruno's tie pin.
CLOSEUP: Bruno's tie pin, bearing his name, gleams in the light.
CLOSEUP: Anne reads the name on the tie pin.
TWO SHOT: Guy comes up to Bruno, steps in front of him.
GUY: ( muttering harshly ) Will you stop pestering me!
BRUNO: But Guy, you haven't called me. My father's leaving for Florida the end of this week
GUY: ( interrupts ) You crazy fool! There's a detective outside. He'll see us together!
BRUNO: ( brushing this off ) Oh, they can't have anything on you. ( looking past Guy ) Isn't that Anne Burton? Slight improvement over Miriam eh, Guy?
GUY: Stay away from me, I tell you!
TWO SHOT: Guy rejoins Anne and they start to walk away.
ANNE: Who was it, Guy?
GUY: ( unnerved ) I never saw him before. Just some tennis fan.
CLOSEUP ANNE: Her face is troubled.
FADE IN: INT. MORTON STUDY MED. SHOT Guy and a secretary have set up office in the Morton study. As the scene opens the secretary is handing Guy a large As Guy is opening the envelope, Barbara speaks to him from atop a library ladder. She is getting a book from one of the top shelves of a bookcase, which is next to a window.
SECRETARY: Here's a special delivery, Mr. Haines. It's marked personal.
BARBARA: Are you getting in any practice today, Yes, if I can get a court at the Barbara, who are you waving at?
GUY: ( as he takes out a Yes, if I can get a court at the Barbara, who are you waving at?
SECRETARY'S VOICE: Barbara, who are you waving at?
BARBARA'S VOICE: Mr. Hennessy. I think it is a shame Daddy won't let us have him in the house to sit down. Have you met him yet, Louise?
SECRETARY'S VOICE: BARBARA'S VOICE
BARBARA'S VOICE: He is awfully cute.
MED. SHOT: Guy frowns, quickly folds the paper up and stuffs it into his pocket. He looks off abstractedly.
CLOSEUP SECRETARY: She looks at Guy sympathetically.
SECRETARY: Is anything wrong, Mr. Haines?
CLOSEUP GUY: No, thank you, Louise.
GUY: No, thank you, Louise.
FADE IN: TENNIS COURT AT WASHINGTON COUNTRY CLUB There are twenty or thirty people sitting in the bleacher seats opposite the umpire's chair. A game of mixed doubles is in progress.
CLOSER SHOT: Guy looks about him. Several people are looking at him awkwardly or avoiding his eyes. He moves self-consciously away, and the CAMERA PANS HIM around the court to the umpire's MED. SHOT A couple of women players whisper something about Guy as he goes past them.
MED. SHOT: A couple of women players whisper something about Guy as he goes past them.
FIRST WOMAN: I didn't think he'd show up after what happened.
SECOND WOMAN: And miss all the publicity?
MED. SHOT: As Guy stands at the umpire's chair, the umpire glances down and gives him a rather embarrassed greeting.
CLOSEUP GUY: MED. SHOT FROM GUY'S VIEWPOINT The heads of the people in the bleachers move from side to side, to follow the play on the court. One head is not moving. It is staring at Guy. It is Bruno. At this moment, we hear the umpire calling, "Game, set and match" to the winning mixed doubles pair.
CLOSEUP GUY: His expression becomes set.
LONG SHOT: The mixed doubles couples complete their handshaking at the net and move off the court. We see Guy move up to the base line while the other player takes his position for the preliminary knock-up.
MED. SHOT: As Guy casually knocks the ball across the net, he glances again toward Bruno.
CLOSEUP GUY: Perplexed and apprehensive as to what Bruno may be up to. He hears his opponent's voice.
PLAYER'S VOICE: Ready, Guy?
ANNE: Guy, darling this is Mr. Antony a friend of Monsieur and Madame Guy Haines.
CLOSEUP GUY: He gives a weak acknowledgment in Bruno's direction, realizing that Bruno has wormed his way into the group and that he must accept the introduction.
MEDIUM SHOT: Bruno half rises, smiles affably at Guy, reaches out his hand. Guy is forced to shake hands with him
BRUNO: I've been a fan of yours for a long time, Mr. Haines. In fact, I follow everything you do.
MME. DARVILLE: Mr. Antony has been telling us such charming stories. Very funny.
CLOSEUP GUY: He gives another weak little smile.
MED. SHOT: In response to the Frenchwoman's attentive and eager expression, Bruno leans forward on the table and starts saying something more in extremely fluent French.
CLOSEUP ANNE: She is staring at Bruno with a new expression.
CLOSEUP ANNE: She becomes aware that this is the man she has seen call to Guy in the art museum, that they have met before. Her eyes turn a little in Guy's direction, though she does not look at him.
CLOSEUP GUY: He is still watching Bruno talk to the French couple. Guy is unaware of Anne's looks. Suddenly his attention is arrested by the sound of Barbara's voice calling him.
BARBARA'S VOICE: He turn his head and CAMERA PANS him to Barbara, who is standing a few steps from the table beckoning to him.
BARBARA: ( Sotto voce ) I've just been talking to your shadow. ( very impressed ) Guy, did you know Mr. Hennessy helped crack that axe murder I was reading about? You know, the one where the body was cut up and hidden in the butcher shop? He was locked in the ice box with the left leg for six He pulls those yarns right out of his hat, Babs.
GUY: He pulls those yarns right out of his hat, Babs.
CLOSEUP GUY: He gives a sharp look back toward Bruno. There is more laughter coming from the French couple at the table.
BARBARA: Who's the nice looking Frenchman with the Darvilles?
GUY: He's not French. His name's Antony.
BARBARA: How do you do, Madame Darville.
CLOSEUP BRUNO: Bruno stops in the middle of some French to stare at Barbara. Her voice continues.
BARBARA'S VOICE: How are you?
BARBARA: I hope you aren't forgetting our little party on Thursday, Madame.
MME. DARVILLE: We are planning on it?
M. DARVILLE: But of course.
ANNE: This is my sister Barbara. Barbara, this is Mr. Antony.
CLOSEUP BRUNO: He does not acknowledge the introduction immediately. He is still staring at Barbara. Then he nods abstractedly.
CLOSEUP ANNE: She is looking at Bruno, wondering what mystery lies behind this strange individual and why he and Guy have disclaimed any previous acquaintance.
FADE IN: INT. GUY'S APARTMENT NIGHT CLOSEUP A LUGER PISTOL HELD IN GUY'S HANDS partially dressed for an evening party, in black bow tie but without his jacket. He leans forward to take up a letter from among brown paper wrappings on the table.
CLOSEUP GUY: He stares down at the note. At this moment there is a knock at the door.
MED. SHOT: Guy hastily gather together the gun, the note and the wrappings and puts them in a dresser drawer. He crosses to the door and opens it. Hennessy enters, carrying a topcoat.
GUY: Hiya, Hennessy. Won't keep you out late tonight. With Forest Hills coming up tomorrow, I've got to get some sleep.
HENNESSY: ( helping himself to a That's too bad. Hammond takes over in a couple of hours. I'd like to see him earn his salary.
GUY: Doesn't that bloodhound over relax? He sticks so close he's beginning to grow on me like a fungus.
HENNESSY: ( mildly ) He thinks you're a very suspicious character. He doesn't trust anybody! Not even himself.
GUY: Come on. Don't forget your sleeping bag.
HENNESSY: ( taking his time ) Yeah, If I have to wait too long on the sidewalk my feet get cold. And if I sit too long on those stone steps, my
GUY: ( quickly ) Don't worry. Since you told Barbara Burton about the icebox, you're her favorite charity. She'll send the butler out with something to defrost ( grinning ) Cute kid.
HENNESSY: ( grinning ) Cute kid.
MED. SHOT: On the opposite side of the street we see Hennessy, now wearing his topcoat. He looks bored as he glances across the street to the house.
CLOSE SHOT: Anne and the Senator are still greeting new arrivals. Anne's manner is somewhat preoccupied. She glances around as she speaks, as though looking for someone.
ANNE: ( to new arrival ) Thank you so much, Mr. Lindsay. We'll look forward to it.
CLOSEUP ANNE: As Bruno comes in her direction, Anne's expression shows her mystification and concern about Bruno's presence and about Guy's attitude toward him.
MED. SHOT: bow to the Senator; then puts his hand out to Anne.
BRUNO: Good evening, Miss Burton.
ANNE: This is Mr. Antony, father.
SENATOR: How do you do, sir.
BRUNO: I'd like to talk to you sometime, Senator, about my idea of harnessing the life force. It will make atomic power look like the horse and buggy. I'm already developing my faculty for seeing millions of miles. And, Senator, can you imagine being able to smell a flower on the planet of Mars? I'd like to lunch with you some day soon and tell you more about
DOWAGER: ( to Senator ) So nice to see you, my dear Senator.
SENATOR: Ah yes, indeed I beg your pardon?
SENATOR: ( still looking after I don't remember inviting that young man. Who is he?
ANNE: A friend of the Darvilles.
SENATOR: He has an unusual personality.
CLOSEUP ANNE: She looks off in Bruno's direction extremely disturbed at this new aspect of the mysterious stranger.
CLOSEUP GUY: He is watching Bruno.
MED. SHOT: Guy sees Bruno join a group of several ladies who are seated on a settee and a couple of older men who are standing by. A waiter comes along with a tray of drinks. Bruno takes CLOSEUP BARBARA She comes from the same direction that Guy came. She stops short as she sees:
CLOSEUP BARBARA: She comes from the same direction that Guy came. She stops short as she sees:
BRUNO: But tell me, Judge, after you've sentenced a man to the chair, isn't it difficult to go and eat your dinner after that?
JUDGE: Young man, when a murderer is caught, he must be tried. When he is convicted, he must be sentenced. When he is sentenced to death, he must be executed.
BRUNO: Quite impersonal, isn't it, sir?
JUDGE: So it is. Besides, it doesn't happen every day.
BRUNO: So few murderers are caught.
MRS. CUNNINGHAM: Well, Mr. Antony, you seem very interested in the subject of murder.
BRUNO: No more than anyone else. No more than you, for instance.
MRS. CUNNINGHAM: Me? I'm not interested in murder.
BRUNO: ( his tone is teasing ) Oh, come now, everyone's interested in that. Everyone would like to put someone out of the way. Now surely, Madame, you're not going to tell me that there hasn't been a time when you wanted to dispose of someone. Your husband, for instance.
MRS. CUNNINGHAM: ( laughs ) Good heavens, no!
BRUNO: ( playfully ) Ah ah! ( shaking a finger at Are you sure? Do you mean to tell me there wasn't a tiny moment - when you'd been made really angry? And what did you say?
MRS. CUNNINGHAM: ( squirms, giggling ) There you are, you see! There you are! All right, now you're going to do a murder. How are you going to do it? This is the fascinating part how are you going to do it.I didn't get your name?
BRUNO: There you are, you see! There you are! All right, now you're going to do a murder. How are you going to do it? This is the fascinating part how are you going to do it.I didn't get your name?
MRS. CUNNINGHAM: Mrs. Cunningham.
BRUNO: Mrs. Cunningham, how are you going to do it?
MRS. CUNNINGHAM: ( entering into the Well, I suppose I'll have to get a gun from somewhere.
BRUNO: ( shakes his head ) Tssk, tssk. Oh no, Mrs. Cunningham.
MRS. ANDERSON: What about a little poison?
BRUNO: Ah! That's better, that's better. That's better, Mrs. Anderson. But Mrs. Cunningham is in a dreadful hurry. Poison could take.let's see.ten to twelve weeks, if poor Mr. Cunningham is to die from natural I have a wonderful Idea! I can take him out in the car and when I get to a lonely spot, knock him on the head with a hammer, pour gasoline over him and over the car and start the whole thing ablaze.
MRS. ANDERSON: ( he is thoroughly That's better, Mrs. Anderson. But Mrs. Cunningham is in a dreadful hurry. Poison could take.let's see.ten to twelve weeks, if poor Mr. Cunningham is to die from natural I have a wonderful Idea! I can take him out in the car and when I get to a lonely spot, knock him on the head with a hammer, pour gasoline over him and over the car and start the whole thing ablaze.
BRUNO: ( he is thoroughly That's better, Mrs. Anderson. But Mrs. Cunningham is in a dreadful hurry. Poison could take.let's see.ten to twelve weeks, if poor Mr. Cunningham is to die from natural I have a wonderful Idea! I can take him out in the car and when I get to a lonely spot, knock him on the head with a hammer, pour gasoline over him and over the car and start the whole thing ablaze.
MRS. CUNNINGHAM: I have a wonderful Idea! I can take him out in the car and when I get to a lonely spot, knock him on the head with a hammer, pour gasoline over him and over the car and start the whole thing ablaze.
BRUNO: ( looks at her And then have to walk all that way
BRUNO: No, I have the best way, and the best tools. Simple, silent, and quick. The silent part being the most important. Let me show you what I mean.
MRS. CUNNINGHAM: ( giggles ) Well, it's not for long.
BRUNO: Oh! no. Now, when I nod my head, just see if you can cry out, and I bet you can't. Now with my two thumbs.you see that's where I'll be able to prevent any sound coming from you. Now, just wait for the nod of my head.
CLOSEUP BRUNO: As he starts to Press her neck, his eyes wander from the face of his "victim" to someone else off scene.
CLOSEUP BRUNO: He is now transfixed. His breathing becomes heavy. A strange expression comes over his face. He still stares off at MED. SHOT BARBARA We see the whirling merry-go-round spinning around her head.
ANOTHER VOICE: Stop him! Stop him!
CLOSEUP: just see Mrs. Cunningham's chin at the top of the screen. Her head is tossing from side to side. Her hands are clutching at Bruno's wrists. The hands of the other two women, also in the picture, are pulling at Bruno's wrists. Mrs. Cunningham's hands begin to slide off. Her head drops Over this we HEAR cries of:
VOICES: Stop him! Help, somebody! Pull him off! Mr. Antony! Mr. Antony!
CLOSEUP BRUNO: His body is swaying slightly at the various efforts to drag him away from Mrs. Cunningham. His eyes begin to close, and slowly he falls away from the picture in a dead faint on the MEDIUM SHOT There is a rush of people around Mrs. Cunningham, who is breathing frantically, her eyes opening and closing. A couple of women are feebly slapping her hands, someone else is fanning her face.
MEDIUM SHOT: There is a rush of people around Mrs. Cunningham, who is breathing frantically, her eyes opening and closing. A couple of women are feebly slapping her hands, someone else is fanning her face.
MEDIUM SHOT: The Senator and Guy rush into the picture. They look at the fallen Bruno. They search around for an explanation. Other man come in ad they start to pick Bruno up.
GUY: Bring him this way.
MEDIUM SHOT: Anne rushes into the picture. She sees Bruno being helped to his feet; then turns her attention to Mrs. Cunningham, who has now somewhat recovered. Mrs. Cunningham is helped to the settee. There is a babble of women's voices trying to explain what has happened.
ANNE: ( thru the babble ) Bring her upstairs.
SENATOR: I thought he was a bit weird when he arrived. Who is he?
GUY: I hardly know him, sir.
SENATOR: Get him out of here as soon as you decently can will you. This is a nice item for the gossips. First thing you know, they'll be talking about orgies. I'd better get back.
GUY: Yes, sir.
MEDIUM SHOT: Bruno is now half awake. Almost without seeing Guy, he staggers to his feet and begins to make his way to the door. Guy advances, and with a sharp thrust, pushes Bruno back on the settee. Bruno looks and sees Guy clearly for the first time.
BRUNO: What happened? I was on a merry-go- round somewhere. It made me dizzy.
GUY: ( disgusted ) You're a mad, crazy maniac, and you ought to be locked-up! Now will you get out of here and let me alone?
BRUNO: But, Guy
BRUNO: You shouldn't have done that, Guy.
GUY: ( subsiding ) Come on pull yourself together. Do your tie up.
GUY: Here let me.
GUY: Have you got a car here?
BRUNO: ( mumbling ) Driver's outside.
CLOSE SHOT: Barbara appears in the hallway, coming from the crowded sitting room. She watches the two men go out the front door.
MEDIUM SHOT: Bruno and Guy going out the front door. The man-servant does not close it immediately, so we are able to HEAR the call for Mr. Antony's car.
CLOSEUP BARBARA: She turns her head and looks up the stairs. Barbara has not quite recovered from her ordeal. She hurries forward to greet Anne who is hurrying down the stairs.
TWO SHOT: CAMERA PANS DOWN with Anne as she descends the last few steps. Barbara enters the picture and the two girls meet at the foot of the stairs.
ANNE: What's the matter, Barbara? Did you see it happen? Did you see it Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org 88.
CLOSEUP BARBARA: ( still shaken ) He looked at me! His hands were on her throat, but, he was strangling ( aghast ) How do you mean?
BARBARA: ( still shaken ) He looked at me! His hands were on her throat, but, he was strangling ( aghast ) How do you mean?
CLOSEUP ANNE: ( aghast ) How do you mean?
ANNE: ( aghast ) How do you mean?
TWO SHOT: He was looking at her first. Then he looked over at me. He went into a sort of trance He looked horrible! He thought he was murdering me.
BARBARA: He was looking at her first. Then he looked over at me. He went into a sort of trance He looked horrible! He thought he was murdering me.
CLOSEUP ANNE: She looks away, with growing consciousness of the situation
TWO SHOT: Anne, why me? Why me? What did I have to do with it?
BARBARA: Anne, why me? Why me? What did I have to do with it?
ANNE: Do you know where Guy is?
BARBARA: He went out with that man!
CLOSEUP ANNE: CLOSE SHOT Guy turns and closes the door.
ANNE: CLOSE SHOT Guy turns and closes the door.
CLOSE SHOT: Guy turns and closes the door.
MEDIUM SHOT: Anne comes down the steps and intercepts Guy on the sidewalk. She leads him along a few paces and then stops and faces CLOSE TWO SHOT Anne nods off in the direction of the departed Bruno and speaks in a desperate, low voice.
ANNE: You didn't meet him for the first time the other day, did you, Guy?
GUY: You mean when you introduced us at the club?
ANNE: Yes. Did you notice how he stared at Barbara that day?
GUY: ( awkwardly ) Well, I didn't particularly
ANNE: ( breaks in ) He stared at her again tonight while his hands were around Mrs. Cunningham's throat.
ANNE: What did Miriam look like, Guy.
GUY: ( awkwardly ) Well, why do you ask me? You've seen her pictures in the paper.
ANNE: Go on, I want you to tell me.
GUY: ( haltingly ) Well, she was dark, not too tall, rather pretty
ANNE: What else?
GUY: What else is there?
ANNE: She wore glasses, didn't she?
GUY: She looked a lot like Barbara, didn't
ANNE: She looked a lot like Barbara, didn't
ANNE: How did you get him to do it, Guy.
GUY: I get him to do it?
ANNE: He killed Miriam, didn't he? Tell me, Guy!
GUY: ( suddenly bursting He's a maniac. I met him on the train going to Metcalf. He had a crazy scheme about exchanging murders. I do his murder and he do mine.
ANNE: ( quietly ) What do you mean your murder, Well, he'd read about me in the paper. He knew about Miriam and about you. He suggested that if he got rid of Miriam for me, I should kill his father.
GUY: Well, he'd read about me in the paper. He knew about Miriam and about you. He suggested that if he got rid of Miriam for me, I should kill his father.
ANNE: You must have realized he was talking a lot of nonsense!
GUY: Of course! I didn't give it another thought. And now a lunatic wants me to kill his father.
ANNE: ( beginning to believe ) It's too fantastic!
GUY: ( grimly ) Yes, isn't it?
ANNE: You mean you've known about Miriam all this time?
GUY: Since the first night. He gave me her glasses.
ANNE: Why didn't you call the police?
GUY: ( bitterly ) And have them say what you did "Mr. Haines, how did you get him to do it?" And Bruno would say we'd planed it together.
ANNE: Oh, Guy what can we do?
GUY: I don't know, Anne.I don't know.
ANNE: ( With an anxious look Guy, hadn't we better go inside? Your friend Hennessy's watching us. ( she Shudders )
GUY: ( sadly ) You see, Anne, that's why I didn't want you to know anything about this. I wanted to protect all of you your father, Barbara. And now that you know, you're acting guilty, too.
ANNE: ( desperately ) Oh, if we could only talk to father or someone about it.
GUY: No, that's no good, Anne. I mustn't drag anyone else into this mess. Come on. Let's go in.
HENNESSY: ( a little glum ) Hello, Hammond.
HAMMOND: You look worried. What's the matter?
HENNESSY: You'd better keep on your toes. Something funny's going on.
GUY: Bruno? Yes, yes, it's Guy.I've decided to do what you want. I'll make that little visit to father.. Yes, I want to get this thing over with, can you leave the house again, You'd better stay out till daylight.
MED. SHOT: CAMERA PANS GUY across to the window. He parts the curtains slightly and looks out.
MED. SHOT: Guy turns away and is soon lost in the darkness of the street.
CLOSE SHOT: house from his pocket, and the key, he looks toward the house.
MED. SHOT: Guy starts up the stairs slowly. He carries his flashlight and the plan.
UPPER HALLWAY: Guy comes up the last few stairs and still the dog hasn't moved. Guy slowly edges past him and the Great Dane's head turns to watch him.
GUY: moving quietly along the hallway, approaches two doors. He takes out his flash and identifies the door with his plan.
GUY: Mr. Antony!
ANOTHER ANGLE: Guy takes a stop closer to the bed.
GUY: ( urgently ) Mr. Antony! Don't be alarmed but I must talk to you about your son. About Bruno. Mr. Antony!
BRUNO: Yes, Mr. Haines?
CLOSEUP GUY: His face is dead.
MED. SHOT: Bruno rises from the bed and sits on the and of it. He is fully dressed, just as he was at the party, in white tie and
BRUNO: ( politely ) My father isn't home tonight, Mr. ( smiles grimly at I was about to tell you that over the phone. But you came to such a sudden decision. I wondered why.
GUY: ( recovering quickly ) Since you sent me a key to your house, I decided to use it to make a little social call on your father. I thought he'd be Interested to know he his a lunatic son.
BRUNO: Then a I correct, Mr. Haines, in assuming that you have no intention of going ahead with our arrangement?
GUY: No intention whatsoever. I never I see. You won't have any further use for the key, then, Mr. Haines. Thank you very such.
BRUNO: I see. You won't have any further use for the key, then, Mr. Haines. Thank you very such.
GUY: Or this.
GUY: ( kindly ) Look, Bruno. You're terribly sick. ( haltingly ) I don't know whether it's possible for you to realize it or not. I don't know much about these things, Bruno. But why don't you go someplace where you can get some treatment? Not only for your own sake, Bruno, but you can't go on causing more and more destruction to anyone you happen to meet.
TWO SHOT: Guy's arguments have made no impression on Bruno whatsoever. He fingers the gun.
BRUNO: I don't like to be doublecrossed.
GUY: ( gives up ) Well, I guess it's no use, Bruno. We sees to have nothing further to
BRUNO: Don't worry. I'm not going to shoot you, Mr. Haines. It might disturb I'm a very clever follow. I'll think of something better than that. Much Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org 100.
LONG SHOT: Bruno remains in the foreground of the scene as Guy proceeds on down the stairs. We see him open the front door and pass
HAMMOND: ( in the middle of his He came back at three twenty-five. I didn't even know he'd given me the slip until his 'phone kept ringing for about half an hour. Nobody sleeps that sound. So I got the janitor to let me in. No Haines.
HENNESSY: ( to himself ) Wonder where he went?
HAMMOND: We'll probably hear of another dame Shut up. I'd better contact Metcalf. I should think this calls for more questioning of Mr. Haines.
HENNESSY: ( puzzled ) Shut up. I'd better contact Metcalf. I should think this calls for more questioning of Mr. Haines.
HAMMOND: Questioning? Nuts! Let's take him My dear Mr. Hamond, how many times do I have to tell you that we have nothing conclusive on Haines? There's no evidence that he was ever at the scene of the crime. Can't you get that into your thick head? Now stay put till I get back.
HENNESSY: My dear Mr. Hamond, how many times do I have to tell you that we have nothing conclusive on Haines? There's no evidence that he was ever at the scene of the crime. Can't you get that into your thick head? Now stay put till I get back.
FADE IN: INT. ANTONY LIVING ROOM LATE MORNING Anne and Mrs. Antony are in the middle of a conversation. Anne's manner is tense and purposeful, Mrs. Antony's much less serious.
MRS. ANTONY: Oh, now, Miss Burton, really! I know Bruno's been in some very awkward scrapes, but nothing so ridiculous as a murder.
ANNE: ( desperately ) But, Mrs. Antony, you've got to make him do something about this. Don't you see that just one word from him would extricate Guy from this dreadful Oh, but Miss Burton, I'm sure this thing must be some practical joke. You know, Bruno sometimes goes too Of course I shouldn't be saying this to an outsider, but sometimes he's terribly irresponsible and gets into all kinds of escapades.
MRS. ANTONY: ( lightly ) Oh, but Miss Burton, I'm sure this thing must be some practical joke. You know, Bruno sometimes goes too ( girl to girl ) Of course I shouldn't be saying this to an outsider, but sometimes he's terribly irresponsible and gets into all kinds of escapades.
ANNE: But don't you understand, Mrs. Antony your son is responsible for a woman's Did Bruno tell you this?
MRS. ANTONY: ( drawing herself up Did Bruno tell you this?
ANNE: Of course not, Mrs. Antony.
MRS. ANTONY: ( that settles it ) Well, there you are.
BRUNO'S VOICE: Oh, Miss Burton!
BRUNO: I'm afraid mother wasn't very helpful, was she? You know she hasn't been well for a long time. She's a little how shall I say confused. Poor mother.
BRUNO: You know, I'm very upset with Guy. He shouldn't have sent you on an errand like this.
ANNE: Guy doesn't know I'm here, Mr. Antony.
BRUNO: He's been leading you up the garden path, I'm afraid. He must be very desperate to try to involve me. I've been protecting him ever since we had that conversation on the train and he told me how he hated his wife.
BRUNO: Why, do you know, Miss Burton, he tried to get me to go back to the island one night after dark and pick up his lighter so the police wouldn't find it? He dropped it there, you know, when well, that night.
BRUNO: The whole thing's been worrying me so much. But of course I couldn't do it, Miss Burton. It would have been too risky. And besides, it would have made me an accessory. Miss Burton, I know how you feel.
BRUNO: Miss Burton, I know how you feel.
BRUNO: Miss Burton, you must excuse me. I have an urgent appointment. I must go up and change. Now, I really must go.if you'll excuse
ANNE: .And he said that if the police found your lighter there, that's all they'd need something to prove you were at the scene of the murder.
GUY: ( grimly ) That big lie about my wanting him to get it back means he's going to put my lighter on that island!
ANNE: ( urgently ) Guy, you'll have to get there before he does. You won't have time to play, You'd better tell them. ( she nods her head in
GUY: Darling, if that loudspeaker announces that I'm not going to play, Hennessy bound to be suspicious He'd keep me from ever getting near Metcalf.
ANNE: Then I'll go.
GUY: ( quickly ) No, darling. ( he puts his hand on You stay right here and help me give Hennessy the slip after the match.
ANNE: But, Guy, that'll be too late!
GUY: ( getting a thought ) Didn't Bruno say that I wanted him together there one night after dark?
ANNE: Well, that's what's in his mind now. He's not going to expose himself in broad daylight, If I can finish off this match in three sets, I'll still get there in time.
GUY: Well, that's what's in his mind now. He's not going to expose himself in broad daylight, If I can finish off this match in three sets, I'll still get there in time.
REYNOLDS: We're on in a few minutes, Guy. How are you, Miss Morton.
GUY: Okay, Tim. Be right with you.
HAMMOND: Well, if Turley said to pick him up for questioning, let's pick him up!
HENNESSY: Let him have his game first, Hammond.
HAMMOND: ( sourly ) This is the first time I ever waited for a murder suspect to play tennis before I pulled him in. When the boys it headquarters heir about this they'll send me orchids. Good luck, Guy.
HENNESSY: Good luck, Guy.
GUY: You got it straight? Just make sure Barbara has everything ready as soon as the third set starts.
MED. SHOT: Anne joins Barbara in the box. She starts to whisper something to her.
LONG SHOT: Guy and Reynolds complete their warm-up as the umpire announces that Guy is to serve. The game starts.
ANNOUNCER: It looks like an interesting match with Haines constantly charging the net not like Haines at all to press so early in the game.
FADE IN: LONG SHOT FOREST HILLS STADIUM Grouped. A game is in progress.
MED. SHOT: A terrace where people get refreshments. There are various tables with umbrellas.
OFFICIAL: Well, at least there'd be a trip to Australia, if you made it.
GUY: ( absently ) We'll know more about that by the end of the week. ( his face brightens
OFFICIAL: They're close to the finish, Guy
GUY: Be right there. I was afraid you wouldn't get here. Wish me luck, darling.
ANNE: ( quickly and urgently ) Guy, listen to me, If I sound all mixed up I can't help it. I I'm What about?
GUY: What about?
ANNE: That's just it. I don't know. It's Bruno. I talked to him, Guy
ANNE: He acted peculiar as if he could put the murder right in your lap, and not involve himself at all.
GUY: ( shaking his head ) He'd drag himself into it, and Bruno loves Bruno. I'm all right so long as he thinks I have an alibi for that night. ( noticing the stricken He knows?
GUY: ( grimly ) Then he'll think of something. He said he would.
ANNE: Guy, has he anything that the police could trace to you Any little thing.
GUY: My cigarette lighter. He said once he could have left it on the islands as evidence But he wouldn't do that. Not in broad day light.
ANNE: ( trying to think ) But he's going somewhere, Guy. He told his mother
GUY: ( tensely ) Metcalf did he say Metcalf?
ANNE: No, I don't think so. Oh, why can't I remember he said such crazy things!
GUY: ( tensely ) Try to think, Anne!
VOICE: ( OFFSCENE ) Guy Haines! Reynolds!
ANNE: Something about the moon he said he had an appointment with the moon.
GUY: That's no help. But I can't take any chances. I've got to get that lighter somehow.
REYNOLDS: Okay, Guy. We're on.
GUY: I'll have to default.
ANNE: And have Hennessy and that other one right at your heels?
HAMMOND: First time I ever waited for a killer to play tennis before I nabbed him!
HENNESSY: We got our orders. We take him in after the match. Good luck, Guy!
HENNESSY: ( a little sadly ) Good luck, Guy!
GUY: The moon! You said he had an Then he is going to Metcalf. But he has to wait until it gets dark Listen, Anne, as soon as the third set starts, tell Barbara
GUY: Then he is going to Metcalf. But he has to wait until it gets dark Listen, Anne, as soon as the third set starts, tell Barbara
LONG SHOT: Guy and Reynolds complete their warm-up as the umpire announces that Guy is to serve. The game starts.
ANNOUNCER: It looks like an interesting match with Haines out to blast Reynolds into a fast fight, not like Haines at all to press so early in the
MED. SHOT: Anne and Barbara sitting in their box watching the play MED. SHOT At the entrance to the covered stand. The two detectives Hennessy and Hammond, are watching. Hammond is bored by this game.
MED. SHOT: At the entrance to the covered stand. The two detectives Hennessy and Hammond, are watching. Hammond is bored by this game.
HAMMOND: Stupid game. You'd never get me into them short pants. I'd feel You'd feel naked in an Eskimo suit if you weren't wearing your badge.
HENNESSY: ( his eyes intent on You'd feel naked in an Eskimo suit if you weren't wearing your badge.
MED. SHOT: Guy playing hard but holding his own.
MED. SHOT: Reynolds, his opponent, playing back.
LONG SHOT: The big crowd watching.
MED. SHOT: Guy scores point over Reynolds.
MED. SHOT: There is general applause from the crowd in the covered stand as we HEAR the Umpire's announcement.
UMPIRE'S VOICE: ( O.S. ) Mr. Haines wins the first set.
MED. SHOT: A nearer view of the game.
CLOSE SHOT: Reynolds playing the covered stand people are concentrating.
MED. SHOT: Guy misses a point and the game. He and Reynolds make for the Umpire's chair. We HEAR the Umpire announce.
UMPIRE'S VOICE: Game to Mr. Reynolds. Games are two all.Second set.
CLOSEUP: Bruno looks up with satisfaction.
MED. SHOT: Guy and Reynolds in play.
MED. SHOT: Guy playing hard.
MED. SHOT: Reynolds playing back.
CLOSEUP: The Umpire watching the game. Suddenly he announces:
UMPIRE: Game to Mr. Reynolds. Games are three all. second set.
PASSENGER: May I have a light, please?
MED. SHOT: Anne and Barbara very tense.
CLOSEUP GUY: about to serve, looks anxiously across the court.
CLOSEUP GUY: as he serves.
CLOSEUP REYNOLDS: CLOSEUP BALL hits the net.
CLOSEUP BALL: hits the net.
CLOSEUP UMPIRE: Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org 117.
UMPIRE: Second set to Haines. Haines leads two sets to love.
ANNE: If he wins this next set you'd better have everything ready. Here give the driver this ten I wish understood what this is all You don't have to understand, just do it. And for heaven's sake, act
BARBARA: ( puzzled ) I wish understood what this is all ( urgently ) You don't have to understand, just do it. And for heaven's sake, act
ANNE: ( urgently ) You don't have to understand, just do it. And for heaven's sake, act
LONG SHOT: The game in progress. Guy starts the next set. He serves.
MED. SHOT: Reynolds returns.
MED. SHOT: Guy volleys.
MED. SHOT: Reynolds puts the ball in the air.
CLOSE SHOT: Guy smashes.
CLOSE SHOT: The ball hits the net.
CLOSEUP UMPIRE: Love fifteen.
UMPIRE: Love fifteen.
UMPIRE'S VOICE: ( O.S. ) Love thirty.
CLOSEUP ANNE: looking very worried. Again the call of the Umpire.
UMPIRE'S VOICE: ( O.S. ) Double fault. Love forty.
ANNOUNCER: Haines hasn't let up his terrific pace for an instant, smashing every
CLOSE SHOT: We see it fall through the bars of a grating by the sidewalk.
CLOSEUP BRUNO: looks down in dismay.
UMPIRE'S VOICE: ( O.S ) Game to Mr. Reynolds. Mr. Reynolds leads five games to three in the third set.
BRUNO: Down there my my cigarette case. It's very valuable.
PORTER: ( peering down ) Down here?
BRUNO: You've got to get this grating up right away.
FIRST PASSERBY: What's the trouble?
BRUNO: ( yelling ) Can't we do something.! ( to passerby ) I dropped my cigarette case.
PORTER: ( looking down ) Mightn't be any good, mister. Probably gone down the storm drain.
BRUNO: ( horrified ) Storm drain?
FIRST PASSERBY: On the other hand, it might have lodged on the edge.
SECOND PASSERBY: Don't they have a trap down there like under a sink?
BRUNO: ( excited ) Don't just stand here do something!
PORTER: ( calmly ) Guess we could phone the city engineer, all right.
BRUNO: I don't want to relax.
ANNOUNCER: ( with great excitement ) This is more than a tennis game, ladies and gentlemen it's a desperate fight with Guy Haines playing as if his life depended on
MED. SHOT: Guy is volleying.
MED. SHOT: Reynolds lobs.
CLOSEUP: Guy smashes.
CLOSE SHOT: Reynolds lobs again.
CLOSE SHOT: Guy smashes.
CLOSE SHOT: Reynolds misses and the ball hits inside the line.
CLOSEUP: The Umpire calling.
UMPIRE: Game to Mr. Haines. Mr. Reynolds leads five games to four.third
CLOSEUP: Bruno's face straining.
CLOSEUP: Under the grating Bruno's hand is groping. His fingers are a long way from the lighter.
CLOSE SHOT: She takes the ten dollar bill from her purse and passes it to the driver. She gives a final look inside the cab.
CLOSEUP: On the seat are Guy's everyday pants, laid out.
MED. SHOT: Barbara hurries out of the picture toward the club.
LONG SHOT: The crowd watching.
CLOSEUP: The tense face of Anne.
CLOSEUP: The Umpire is somewhat impressed.
CLOSE SHOT: Guy now playing hard.
CLOSEUP: His racket smashing at the ball.
CLOSEUP: Reynolds and his racket hitting the ball back.
UMPIRE: Advantages, Mr. Haines.
CLOSEUP: Guy serving.
CLOSEUP: His ball hitting the racket.
CLOSEUP: The ball in the net.
CLOSEUP: A second ball hitting the net. The Umpire's voice calling:
UMPIRE'S VOICE: ( O.S )
CLOSEUP: Under the grating, Bruno's fingers get near the lighter, and in their groping, they knock the lighter off the ledge, onto the ledge below.
CLOSEUP: Bruno's horror-stricken face.
CLOSE SHOT: Barbara standing with Hennessy, watching. We HEAR the score.
UMPIRE'S VOICE: ( O.S ) Advantage, Mr. Reynolds.
CLOSEUP ANNE: MED. SHOT The waiting cab.
MED. SHOT: The waiting cab.
CLOSE SHOT: Guy and Reynolds in play.
UMPIRE'S VOICE: ( O.S ) Score is deuce.
CLOSE SHOT: Reynolds serves.
CLOSE SHOT: Guy volleys. He waits for the return ball. He misses it.
UMPIRE'S VOICE: ( O.S ) Advantage, Mr. Reynolds.
CLOSEUP: Under the grating, Bruno's fingers go lower and lower, straining to reach the lighter, which is still a few inches out of reach.
ANNOUNCER: Haines hasn't let up for a moment. If he wins this set, he wins the whole match!
MED. SHOT: Guy slams hard a shot that wins him the game.
LONG SHOT: Guy shakes hands with his opponent, and then hurries across to Anne in the stand. He leans over the front of the box. While congratulating him outwardly, she whispers something to him. He leaves his racket with her and hurries away.
BARBARA: ( breathlessly ) Isn't it wonderful, Mr. Hennessy? He won! It calls for a celebration. Anne says you must have dinner with us. Just the family, and you, and ( awkwardly ) Sorry I can't make it. Business.
HENNESSY: ( awkwardly ) Sorry I can't make it. Business.
BARBARA: But Guy is your business. You'll be with him, won't you?
HENNESSY: ( a little grimly ) Yeah I'll be with Guy.
MED. SHOT: Guy moving along the front of the stand making for another CLOSE SHOT Barbara takes it for granted that Hennessy will accept her
CLOSE SHOT: Barbara takes it for granted that Hennessy will accept her
BARBARA: Guy says you love steak rare, Medium, or well-done?
HENNESSY: I sure wish I could
SEMI CLOSEUP: Hammond is looking off. He calls into the stand.
HAMMOND: He points off toward Guy.
MED. SHOT: Guy is hurrying toward the public entrance of the stand.
SEMI CLOSEUP: Hennessy and Hammond move off, leaving a dismayed Barbara.
MED. SHOT: The two men hurrying after him.
MED. SHOT: The two men hurry out of the club and stand helplessly looking after the departing cab. They hurry out of the picture.
CLOSE SHOT: We see them grab another car. It is a chauffeur-driven limousine. Hammond jumps in front and seats himself beside the driver. Hennessy hops in the back. The car moves off.
HENNESSY: If you'll pardon us, madam, we need your help. We're chasing a man.
DOWAGER: How exciting.
CLOSEUP: Under the grating Bruno's fingers slowly closing in on the lighter. They barely manage to grasp it.
CLOSEUP: BRUN0'S FACE triumphant.
CLOSEUP: Bruno's fist, holding the lighter, comes through the grating.
CLOSE SHOT: Bruno straightens up. CAMERA BACK as all the onlookers turn their heads in his direction.
ONLOOKER: You sure must think a lot of that Whatever it is.
LONG SHOT: The sun is much lower.
CLOSE SHOT: ( to the driver ) The amusement park, quick.
GUY: ( to the driver ) The amusement park, quick.
CLOSE SHOT: He puts his head in the side window and tells the two waiting detectives where Guy has gone.
MAN: Amusement park.
MED. SHOT: Bruno leaves his spot at the side of the tent and ambles over toward the queue of people waiting for boats.
MED. SHOT: Guy's taxi arrives.
MED. SHOT: Across the street, another police car arrives.
MED. SHOT: At Guy is paying his cab fare, he glances around him.
MED. SHOT: Guy cautiously makes his way toward the entrance to the Amusement Park.
MED. SHOT: Guy passes the waiting detective and looks off. From his viewpoint we see:
MED. SHOT: One detective turns away and starts to follow Guy.
DETECTIVE: ( to boatman ) The killer is here tonight. So keep your eyes open and the minute you see him, let us know.
CLOSE SHOT: The boatman looks at them with an expression of alarm.
MED. SHOT: Guy, threading his way through the crowds, conscious that he is being followed, but nevertheless, on the lookout for Bruno.
MED. SHOT: The boatman begins to look along the queue. There is an expression of growing recognition on his face.
MED. SHOT: Bruno sees this, makes a decision and casually deserts the queue of people.
MED. SHOT: The boatman hurries across to the uniformed man and begins to talk to him excitedly, looking in Bruno's direction.
GUY: Hey, Bruno.
CLOSE SHOT: Bruno hurries on. He stop short as he sees.
MED. SHOT: Bruno starts to run.
MED. SHOT: Guy starts to run after him.
MED. SHOT: Bruno is seen to jump on a merry-go-round, which is just starting. Its pace is already pretty fast.
MED. SHOT: Guy runs toward Bruno.
CLOSE SHOT: Haines! Hold it! Hold it!
DETECTIVE: Haines! Hold it! Hold it!
CLOSE SHOT: CLOSE SHOT The man running the machine in the center of the merry-go- round is suddenly hit in the shoulder.
CLOSE SHOT: The man running the machine in the center of the merry-go- round is suddenly hit in the shoulder.
CLOSE SHOT: His hand, which is on the starting lever, jerks it down.
MED. SHOT: The detective, after Guy, jumps on the machine but is flung off on his back.
FULL SHOT: The merry-go-round has now started to increase the speed.
CLOSE SHOT: Bruno at the far side is trying to jump off, but it's going too fast.
TWO SHOT: As Guy comes near to Bruno, the latter turns on him and starts to attack him.
BRUNO: I want to get off of here! Let me off of here! It makes me dizzy.
GUY: Stop it, Bruno. Give me my lighter,
MED.SHOT: Against the whirling background of the merry-go-round, Turley and Campbell rush up as the detective struggles to his feet, slightly hurt. The noise from the calliope is very loud.
CAMPBELL: ( to Turley, puzzled; Who's the man he's fighting with on
BOATMAN: ( excited ) There he is! That's the one! That's the one who killed her!
TURLEY: Of course he is. We know that.
DETECTIVE: Get somebody to come and stop that
WORKMAN: I'll handle it.
DETECTIVE: ( calls after him ) Hey! Be careful! Stop!
2ND DETECTIVE: Well, do you want to do it yourself?
1ST DETECTIVE: ( changing his mind ) No. I think he'll make it all right.
MED. SHOT: THE CAMERA IS LOW so that we get the effect of Bruno falling into the CAMERA from Guy's blow!
MED. SHOT: In the f.g. is a young boy of four years. He is excited by the speed of the ride and laughs at the fight with great enjoyment. He sees this by suddenly glancing over his shoulder. In the b.g. Guy and Bruno are continuing their fight. Bruno rises. Guy staggers after him. Bruno again leaps upon Guy. The two men sway toward the CAMERA until Bruno gets alongside the little boy. The boy now shows some anxiety. The three figures now fill the screen with the horses' heads in the f.g. Bruno is forced against the little boy, who now, alarmed, beats Bruno on the cheek with one hand, the other holding onto the brass rail in front. Bruno stops and with a sweep of his arm, knocks the little boy off the horse onto the floor below. The little boy, in falling, grabs the horse's rein or stirrup.
CLOSE SHOT: Guy breaks away from Bruno and dives around the back of the horse to grab the little boy.
CLOSE SHOT: As Guy grabs the boy, he staggers forward with him to a small gondola. Bruno leaps onto his back but Guy manages to put the boy in the gondola.
CLOSE SHOT: The calliope has little figures and these boat away on their cymbals almost as though they are applauding what's going CLOSE SHOT Underneath the merry-go-round, the boat man has made further progress. He is creeping inch by inch. His nose starts to run. He starts to fumble for a dirty piece of handkerchief. He blows his nose and then moves on.
CLOSE SHOT: Underneath the merry-go-round, the boat man has made further progress. He is creeping inch by inch. His nose starts to run. He starts to fumble for a dirty piece of handkerchief. He blows his nose and then moves on.
CLOSE SHOT: Back above the two men swinging past the two girls on their horse and they both crash to the floor underneath another horse, upon which is riding side-saddle, a mother and her three-year-old little girl.
CLOSEUP: The two big heads of the men, battling. The two men roll underneath the horse's hoofs, which are seen rising and falling. They get right underneath one horse.
CLOSEUP: Guy has turned over on his back and his eyes look up.
CLOSE SHOT: from the CAMERA right to the edge of the merry-go-round. He manages to grab a rail.
MED. SHOT: Guy's body is flung out horizontally. We see the crowd behind back-up for fear of being knocked over. The screw of tension increase. Over this comes the sound of an approaching ambulance siren.
CLOSE SHOT: Bruno edges himself toward Guy. He is hanging on to the reins of a horse. His feet manage to roach Guy's knuckles.
MED. SHOT: A flash of the horror-stricken faces of the spectators seen through the whirling machine.
CLOSEUP: Machinery and the lever that was pulled on too fast. The Boatman's hand comes up into the picture and pulls the lever LONG SHOT The sudden braking causes the whole merry-go-round to topple over with a grinding roar.
LONG SHOT: The sudden braking causes the whole merry-go-round to topple over with a grinding roar.
AD LIBS: Get back. Get back there. Give us room here.
TURLEY: Are you all right, Haines?
GUY: Yes, I think so.
DETECTIVE: Mr. Turley! Mr. Turley! He says this isn't the man we want. It's the other one the one he was fighting with.
TURLEY: ( stops to give his What do you mean, this isn't the ( turns to Guy, not Not Haines? ( back to boatman ) But you said he was. You pointed him out.
BOATMAN: No, I didn't, sir. I've never seen this man before in my life. I meant the other one.
TURLEY: What is this all about, Haines? Did you know he killed your wife?
GUY: ( nods ) He has my cigarette lighter and wanted to plant it there on the island to pin the whole thing on me. ( urgently ) Let me talk to him. Let me show you. Where is he?
ANOTHER DETECTIVE: Over here.
POLICEMAN: This one's in a pretty bad way, Mr.
GUY: ( looking down at Bruno ) Can't you get that stuff off him?
POLICEMAN: No, they've done everything they can until the crane comes.
BRUNO: Hello, Guy.
BRUNO: ( weakly nodding at Who's that?
GUY: This is Mr. Turley, Chief of Police.
BRUNO: ( with a half smile ) So they got you at last, eh, Guy?
GUY: ( rather gently ) Can you talk a little? Can you tell the chief you have my lighter?
BRUNO: ( with a faint, I haven't got it. It's still on the island where you left it. ( looking down at Bruno ) I think he's going.
DETECTIVE: ( looking down at Bruno ) I think he's going.
DETECTIVE'S VOICE: He's finished.
TURLEY: Is this your lighter, Haines? Well, you were right. I'd better keep this for the time We can clear the whole thing out the morning. How about staying in town over night, Haines? I imagine you have a lot to tell me. Nine o'clock, all right?
TURLEY: Well, you were right. I'd better keep this for the time We can clear the whole thing out the morning. How about staying in town over night, Haines? I imagine you have a lot to tell me. Nine o'clock, all right?
GUY: ( nods ) Okay, Mr. Turley. Thanks.
GUY: Can you tell me where there's a There's one up near the entrance. Who was he, Bud?
BOATMAN: ( indicating ) There's one up near the entrance. ( with a look back to Who was he, Bud?
GUY: Bruno. Bruno Antony. A very clever fellow.
ANNE: ( into phone ) ( impatiently ) Yes, operator, yes! ( waits a moment, then
ANNE: Guy'll be back tomorrow. He wants me to take him some things.
ANNE: He says he looks silly in his tennis
SENATOR: I presume from all those tears that you have had good news.
CLERIC: I beg your pardon, but aren't you Guy Haines?
GUY: ( uncomfortably )
THE END: Writers : Raymond Chandler Czenzi Ormonde
