VOICE: SECOND VOICE ( LENNY )
OUR VOICE: Okay. It's goin'. I'm recording.
LANE: Good one, dickhead. Thanks for waitin' till I get this fuckin thing on. You tryin' ta I.D. me, or
LANE: Next alley. just pull in slow. Hurry up will ya. Here.
LANE: Let's go.
OUR VOICE: ( shouting, edgy ) Don't move, don't talk, don't do
LANE: Don't stop!
LENNY: This is great. the doors are all locked. Who are these losers, friends of yours?
LANE: Come on! Fucking jump man!
LENNY: Goddamnit! You know I don't deal in snuff. How many times I hafta tell
TICK: Don't have a fucking coronary, Lenny.
LENNY: Well you could've at least warned me. You know I hate the zap. when they die. It just brings down your whole day. Jeez, Tick.
TICK: LENNY NERO is low thirties. Handsome. Charming. And you better check to see if you still have your ring after you shake with him. He is wearing an expensive Italian jacket, and what he thinks of as a "power tie." His Rolex isn't real. His greasy hair is too long and curls around his collar. He needs to shave. A little sleazy. But he has energy, and heavy street smarts. Lenny is sitting on the hood of his '97 BMW 1035i. Tick is facing him, sitting in the back of his beat-to-shit 70's van. There are a lot of tapes and tech stuff piled inside the van. Lenny has a Haliburton case open next to him, like a drug dealer. In fact the whole setup looks like a drug deal, but it's not. Though it is illegal. The case holds Lenny's personal playback deck, his trodes, and a rack of the little tapes in which he deals. They are about the size of DAT tapes, and hold about 30 minutes of sensory experience. everything a person sees, hears, and feels. recorded directly from the cerebral cortex at the moment it is happening.
LENNY: How'd you get the tape? Why didn't the cops put it in evidence?
TICK: With all the blood I guess they didn't see the rig. Guy had it under a wig.
LENNY: Yeah, but how'd it get to you?
TICK: I got ways, Lenny, I got ways. Okay, okay. I got a deal with some a the paramedics. My guy pages me and I pick it up at the morgue. So whaddya think? This clip's gotta be worth at least a grand. Right?
LENNY: Tick. Not to dash your hopes, but I don't deal this kind of product, you know that. I'll give you four for it, cause I've gotta cut off the last bit. And my customers want Fuck that! The last part's the best. You dry-dive six stories and blammo! Jack right into the Big I don't deal black-jack clips! It's policy. I got ethics here.
TICK: Fuck that! The last part's the best. You dry-dive six stories and blammo! Jack right into the Big I don't deal black-jack clips! It's policy. I got ethics here.
LENNY: I don't deal black-jack clips! It's policy. I got ethics here.
TICK: Yeah, when did that start? Come on, man! It's what people want to see, and you know it.
LENNY: So lay it off to somebody else.
TICK: Come on, Lenny. I got expenses. I got to get this rig fixed. Look at
TICK: Give me six at least. This's a good clip, here. Gets you pumpin'.
LENNY: Yeah, well, the first part's okay. Better than the usual soaps you bring me.
TICK: Now that is cold, Lenny. I always bring you choice.
LENNY: Sure, like this low-grade shit here, some girl in a fight with her boyfriend. it's a test-pattern. Nothing happens. I'm snorin'.
TICK: Hey, you're always saying, 'Bring me real life. Bring me street life. And, like, one man's mundane and desperate existence is another man's I said that? Look, I'll take it for five, and you'll make out okay, because in this case it's pure cream, you don't have to cut anything back to the wearer.
LENNY: I said that? Look, I'll take it for five, and you'll make out okay, because in this case it's pure cream, you don't have to cut anything back to the wearer.
TICK: Ha! That's for fucking sure.
LENNY: What else you got?
LENNY: Look, Jerr. I'm nothing if not a man of my word. I'll drop the money by tomorrow, next day latest. It's a little crazed right now. Yeah, on my mother's eyes, I swear. Thanks, What kinda move you call that?!
HOST: So Dan, are you looking forward to the New Year?
DAN: Not really. I mean what's the point? Nothing changes New Years day. The economy sucks, gas is over three bucks a gallon, fifth grade kids are shooting each other at recess. the whole thing sucks, right? So what the hell are we
HOST: You're a glass-is-half-empty kind of guy, aren't you Dan? Well I for one happen to think that us making it 2000 years is worth celebrating
LENNY: ( on cellular ) Jimbo. I'm there, Jimmy. Right now, can't you hear me knockin'? so you line up the talent, shoot the clip, get it to me by Monday. OK? Client wants a guy and two girls, the guy wears. yeah, I know, thinks he's being original. Girls have to be young. So don't use your mother like you usually do. Yeah, you too, pendejo. And no big tits. French tits. That's it. like Champagne glasses. you got it. What a pro. Page me.
LENNY: so you line up the talent, shoot the clip, get it to me by Monday. OK? Client wants a guy and two girls, the guy wears. yeah, I know, thinks he's being original. Girls have to be young. So don't use your mother like you usually do. Yeah, you too, pendejo. And no big tits. French tits. That's it. like Champagne glasses. you got it. What a pro. Page me.
LORI: If you read the Bible, Mark, you'd know that there won't be another thousand years. Right now we are in the Last Days, as foretold in the book of
HOST: The Last Days? You mean the coming of the Apocalypse, right? The
LORI: Yes, that's right. You only have to look at the signs. there are wars and rumors of wars
LENNY: ( lying ) I live here.
HOST: Now just so the rest of us know how much time is left, when is the Rapture supposed to hit, exactly? Is it midnight New Year's Eve? Is that midnight LA time, or Eastern Standard or what? I mean, what time zone is God in, anyway?
HOST: Is that midnight LA time, or Eastern Standard or what? I mean, what time zone is God in, anyway?
LORI: I pray for you all.
LENNY: ( cellular ) I just got something in, Bobby, you might appreciate. A 211 at a Thai joint goes south, and these three scuzzballs end up in a gun-and-run. It's a beauty, two thumbs up. Parental discretion advised. I'm talking it's the master, not some stepped-on copy. One of a kind.
LENNY: Yo, Skinner. The Skin Man. Red leather. Nice feminine touch.
SKINNER: ( laughing ) Fuck you, Nero.
LENNY: Whattya got for me?
LENNY: Yeah, I can use this. . but honey you gotta move your eyes slower next time. It's too It was her first time, Lenny. Cut her some slack.
SKINNER: It was her first time, Lenny. Cut her some slack.
HOST: Go ahead, caller, you're on the air.
VOICE: My name's DeWayne, and I got a New Year's resolution for the po-lice. Hey, yo Five Oh, you better get down with 2-K.
HOST: 2-K? What's that DeWayne?
DEWAYNE: 2-K. The big two thousand. Comin tomorrow night. Out with the old and in wit da new. See for the Man, no new is good new, what I'm sayin. He like to keep it the way it is. But we going to take it, make it new, make it our own. History gonna start right here, right now
LENNY: Hi, Dave, this is Lenny. Nero. Lenny Nero. That's right. Oh, is it late? Sorry. It's just that I have something that might be of interest, and since I always call you first Uh, huh. Well, what would be a good time? Okay, sure. Catch you then.
EDUARDO: Let me get this straight. you gonna pay me 200 bucks to put on a hair net and bang some beautiful babe. I don't know, I gotta think about this.
LENNY: Okay, let's get you wired up. I hope this axle grease you got in your hair doesn't screw up the squid What's all this squid shit?
EDUARDO: What's all this squid shit?
LENNY: Superconducting QUantum Interference Device. SQUID. Got it? There's gonna be a test.
EDUARDO: Hey, fuck you, man.
LENNY: Easy, Eduardo, easy. Preserve a sense of humor at all times. Okay, the receptor rig. what I'm putting on your head. sends a signal to the recorder. See we call it "being wired," but there's no wire. You gotta keep the recorder close. five, six feet away max, like in your jacket pocket by the bed or wherever you're going to close escrow, know what I mean?
EDUARDO: Yeah, right.
LENNY: Some tips. Don't dart your eyes around. Don't look in the mirror or you'll ID yourself. OK? You got a half hour of tape, so give me some lead-in to the main event. But don't wait too long, I don't want to be going out for popcorn. And don't act natural. Don't act at all. Just forget the thing is on. Got No problem.
EDUARDO: No problem.
LENNY: A star is born.
ENGELMAN: She's a hooker, vice'll have her in the book. We can pick her up later.
SPREG: No. Now.
SPREG: Negative. Suspect is a black male, age 35 to 40. We're handling it.
ENGELMAN: Iris clears the doors just as they hiss shut. Her momentum carries her clear across the car, where she slams into the far wall and staggers back, almost falling. She gasps for breath and looks up to see. . Spreg crashing against the outside of the doors she just came through as the train starts to move. He tries to force the doors apart. can't. He aims his gun through the window. Thinking fast Iris dives to his side of the car and presses herself up against the solid wall next to the door, where he can't see her. OUTSIDE, Spreg is running next to the accelerating train. He swings his pistol, smashing the window with the butt. Iris screams as Spreg lunges through the opening next to her like some uniformed nightmare and grabs her. He is still running alongside, pulling on her. Trying to drag her right out through the window. She struggles. Bites his beefy hand. He swears and lets go. Then makes one last grab. Gets his fingers into her long mane of hair. Yanks on her. She comes half out the window, screaming. Then. RIP! The hair pulls off her head. Spreg drops away, behind the speeding train, holding a red wig. He looks at it stupidly, then raises his pistol and fires at Iris. She jerks back through the window and drops to the floor. A couple of shots hit the metal outside. We see Iris has short hair, platinum white. In it are a few of the many pins which held the wig securely in place. She gasps for air, sobbing and hugging her knees, trembling all over. SPREG STANDS on the platform, watching the train disappear, as Engelman runs up. Spreg looks at the wig in his hand, disgusted. He turns it and looks inside, at the CLOSE ON THE CAP inside the wig: there is an intricate network of sensors in a grid over the entire underside of the wig. The sensors are connected by wires, in a pattern like the veins of a leaf, bundling to a small, flat metal box, the size of a cigarette case. It is a SQUID NET. Iris was wired. Spreg just stares at the SQUID NET, eyes going crazy wide.
FREEZE!: Iris clears the doors just as they hiss shut. Her momentum carries her clear across the car, where she slams into the far wall and staggers back, almost falling. She gasps for breath and looks up to see. . Spreg crashing against the outside of the doors she just came through as the train starts to move. He tries to force the doors apart. can't. He aims his gun through the window. Thinking fast Iris dives to his side of the car and presses herself up against the solid wall next to the door, where he can't see her. OUTSIDE, Spreg is running next to the accelerating train. He swings his pistol, smashing the window with the butt. Iris screams as Spreg lunges through the opening next to her like some uniformed nightmare and grabs her. He is still running alongside, pulling on her. Trying to drag her right out through the window. She struggles. Bites his beefy hand. He swears and lets go. Then makes one last grab. Gets his fingers into her long mane of hair. Yanks on her. She comes half out the window, screaming. Then. RIP! The hair pulls off her head. Spreg drops away, behind the speeding train, holding a red wig. He looks at it stupidly, then raises his pistol and fires at Iris. She jerks back through the window and drops to the floor. A couple of shots hit the metal outside. We see Iris has short hair, platinum white. In it are a few of the many pins which held the wig securely in place. She gasps for air, sobbing and hugging her knees, trembling all over. SPREG STANDS on the platform, watching the train disappear, as Engelman runs up. Spreg looks at the wig in his hand, disgusted. He turns it and looks inside, at the CLOSE ON THE CAP inside the wig: there is an intricate network of sensors in a grid over the entire underside of the wig. The sensors are connected by wires, in a pattern like the veins of a leaf, bundling to a small, flat metal box, the size of a cigarette case. It is a SQUID NET. Iris was wired. Spreg just stares at the SQUID NET, eyes going crazy wide.
ENGELMAN: Oh shit.
IRIS: . you got to be there for me. COME ON! Shit, I'll call later.
FAITH: ( laughs ) Hey, you going to watch or you going to do?
LENNY: Watch and see.
FAITH: I love your eyes, Lenny. I love the way they see.
ANCHORWOMAN: . bodies of two men found early this morning under the Hollywood freeway have been identified as rap star Jeriko One and bandmember James Polton, known to fans as "Replay". A third body, that of a woman, has not yet been identified. With his band, the Prophets of Rage, Jeriko One's outspoken political stance and violent lyrics have stirred nationwide controversy.
LENNY: ( on cellular ) You know I can get you anything you want, anytime you want it, just not right now. We'll hook up at the club later. Around eleven. Yeah.
BARTENDER: Hey, Lenny.
LENNY: Anything without an umbrella. Lenny my man, I think you want to meet a friend of mine.
FABRIZIO: Lenny my man, I think you want to meet a friend of mine.
LENNY: Looks like money to me.
FABRIZIO: Don't forget your friends.
LENNY: 10 percent, Fabri, like always.
FABRI: Keith, this is Lenny. Guy I was telling you about. He can get you anything you
LENNY: ( cutting him off ) Just a second. Not to be rude, Keith, but I got to ask, are you a I understand. No, I'm not.
KEITH: I understand. No, I'm not.
LENNY: You understand? Attorney! Right? Am I right?
KEITH: That's right. Tassel shoes. Entertainment law, would be my guess. Relax. I just like to guess, is all. It's my job to know people and what they want. what's behind their eyes.
LENNY: Tassel shoes. Entertainment law, would be my guess. Relax. I just like to guess, is all. It's my job to know people and what they want. what's behind their eyes.
FABRIZIO: Lenny gives people their heart's desire. Ain't that right, Lenny?
LENNY: That's right. My second question I gotta ask, so we get our bearings here. have you ever jacket in? Have you ever wiretripped?
KEITH: ( a winning grin ) A virgin brain! Well we're going to start you off right. So what do you know about this? Save us some ( shrugs ) Just what I've read. That the technology was developed for the Feds, to replace the body wire. And now it's gone black market. So, uh, do I get the deck from you?
LENNY: ( a winning grin ) A virgin brain! Well we're going to start you off right. So what do you know about this? Save us some ( shrugs ) Just what I've read. That the technology was developed for the Feds, to replace the body wire. And now it's gone black market. So, uh, do I get the deck from you?
KEITH: ( shrugs ) Just what I've read. That the technology was developed for the Feds, to replace the body wire. And now it's gone black market. So, uh, do I get the deck from you?
LENNY: I'll set you up, get you a deck at my cost. since my thing is the That's right. Clips. Look, I want you to know what we're talking about here. This isn't like TV only better. This is life. It's a piece of somebody's life. Pure and uncut, straight from the cerebral cortex. You're there. You're doing it, seeing it, hearing it. feeling it.
KEITH: That's right. Clips. Look, I want you to know what we're talking about here. This isn't like TV only better. This is life. It's a piece of somebody's life. Pure and uncut, straight from the cerebral cortex. You're there. You're doing it, seeing it, hearing it. feeling it.
LENNY: That's right. Clips. Look, I want you to know what we're talking about here. This isn't like TV only better. This is life. It's a piece of somebody's life. Pure and uncut, straight from the cerebral cortex. You're there. You're doing it, seeing it, hearing it. feeling it.
KEITH: What kind of things exactly?
LENNY: Exactly anything. Whatever you want. Whoever you want to be. Fabri, get us another round, would
LENNY: You want to go skiing without leaving your den, you can. But I'm assuming a guy like you, you wanna go skiing you fly to Aspen. That's not what you're interested in here. It's about the stuff you can't have. right? The forbidden
LENNY: Like running into a liquor store with a .357 magnum in your hand, feeling the adrenalin pumping through your veins. Or. . see that guy, with the drop-dead Philipino girl friend? Wouldn't you like to be that guy for twenty minutes? The right twenty minutes. I can make it happen. And you won't even tarnish your wedding
KEITH: ( hooked like a carp ) Sounds good.
LENNY: I can get you what you want. You just have to talk to me. I'm your priest, your shrink, your main connection to the switchboard of souls. I'm the Magic Man, the Santa Claus of the Subconscious. You say it, you even think it, you can have it. You want a girl, you want two girls? I don't know what your thing is or what you're curious about. you want a guy? You want to be a girl. see what that feels like? You want a nun to tie you up? It's all doable.
KEITH: ( flushed, sweating, Talk to me about costs, here.
LENNY: Listen, before we get into numbers, I want you to try a taste. I got a deck with me.
KEITH: What? Right Here?
LENNY: ( grinning ) Step into my office.
LENNY: You were just an eighteen year old girl taking a shower. Are you beginning to see the possibilities
KEITH: Yeah, I'm interested, but can we get someplace a little less public?
LENNY: ( grinning ) You nervous? Forget it. The cops have more to worry about in this city than the squid-trade, believe
MAN: ( to Keith ) Beat it fuckwad.
LENNY: Damnit, Max, I was with a client! You think that's funny? To mess with a man's livelihood? It's not You see the look on that preppy puke's face? Fuckin' pissed in his Okay. It was funny. But it cost me Come on, amigo, the world's full of marks. And nobody knows how to work 'em like you do, pal. You could sell a goddamn rat's asshole for a wedding ring! Let me buy you a Least you can do.
MAX: You see the look on that preppy puke's face? Fuckin' pissed in his Okay. It was funny. But it cost me Come on, amigo, the world's full of marks. And nobody knows how to work 'em like you do, pal. You could sell a goddamn rat's asshole for a wedding ring! Let me buy you a Least you can do.
LENNY: ( laughing a little ) Okay. It was funny. But it cost me Come on, amigo, the world's full of marks. And nobody knows how to work 'em like you do, pal. You could sell a goddamn rat's asshole for a wedding ring! Let me buy you a Least you can do.
MAX: Come on, amigo, the world's full of marks. And nobody knows how to work 'em like you do, pal. You could sell a goddamn rat's asshole for a wedding ring! Let me buy you a Least you can do.
LENNY: Least you can do.
REGULAR: Yo, Pelcher! Mad Max!
MAX: Fuckin' A right I'm mad! I might kill every man in here. But first I'm buyin' my buddy here a drink. Hey O'Neal! You were right, your wife does give good head.
MAX: Bobbyyyy! Tequila por favor! Double shots. Make it Tres Generaciones, huh. Nothin' but the best for my good friend Lenny, the finest cop that ever got thrown off the vice squad. Hey, nice tie.
LENNY: Thanks, Max.
MAX: D'you always have to dress like a fuckin' pimp?
LENNY: This tie cost more than your entire That's not sayin' much.
MAX: That's not sayin' much.
LENNY: It's the one thing that stands between me and the jungle.
MAX: To the jungle! Where outa the blue some shitbird can cap you in the back of the head and ruin your whole
LENNY: You were lucky, Max.
MAX: Yup. So darn lucky. I wake up with a .22-short floating in my brainpan, and a cop pension I can't live off of. Good thing I wasn't any luckier. Bobby! Another shooter right here!
MAX: You seen Faith lately? Naw. She won't call me.
LENNY: Naw. She won't call me.
MAX: Just as well, Lenny. You gotta get past it. I mean sure, Faith was by far the most outstanding woman a guy like you could ever hope to get, I mean it's completely and deeply humiliating that she's gone, but it's over, campadre.
LENNY: Thanks, Max. I'm touched by your
MAX: I just hate to see you pining away. It makes me want to vomit, frankly. Broken hearts are for assholes.
LENNY: ( seeing Iris ) Hey, Iris, you okay?
IRIS: Lenny, I got to talk to you, it's What happened, honey, some john get rough on you?
MAX: ( looking at her face ) What happened, honey, some john get rough on you?
IRIS: ( to Lenny ) I mean talk private. Please, I'm in trouble, and so is Faith.
MAX: ( as Lenny reacts to There it is, the magic fuckin' word. Can we go to your car? There's something you have to see right What's going on?
IRIS: Can we go to your car? There's something you have to see right What's going on?
LENNY: What's going on?
IRIS: It's a bad situation. if they get me I know they're going to OH
SHIT!: She bridles like a startled horse. Lenny looks at what she sees: a red beam, sweeping the parking lot. Must be the cops. He turns back. She's gone. What the hell? He looks back at the red light. and edges around the corner to see what the cops are up to. It's not a cop car. It's a tow-truck, with Lenny's BMW on the hook. Lenny runs to the TOW DRIVER, who looks like a biker only meaner.
LENNY: Hang on, that's my car
TOW DRIVER: Not anymore. Belongs to the bank.
LENNY: Hey wait a second.
LENNY: Oh, yeah, that's the answer! Two million years of human evolution and that's the best idea you can come up Okay. Look, whattya get to repo a car? Two hundred? Two fifty? I'll pay you three fifty, right now. All you gotta do is drop it off the hook and say you came by, your mark wasn't here. Simple. Make a few bucks. Do a good deed. Huh?
DRIVER: You got the cash on you?
LENNY: I was going to write you a check, if
LENNY: Okay, okay, I totally respect that call. I would want cash. They'll take my check inside. I can see you're pressed for time, just give me two minutes. here keep my watch for collateral.
LENNY: It's a Rolex. Be right back. Two
LENNY: Son of a bitch!
MACE: Hello? Hey Lenny, whatup? Uh huh. Uh huh. Sure. So what happened to your car this time?
MAX: See, if you packed your piece you could've made the guy see sense.
LENNY: Uh unh, carrying a gun wrecks the line of a fine jacket.
MAX: An ex-cop that doesn't carry. It's embarrassing. I oughta not be seen with you. Hey, Mace. What's goin' on?
MACE: Greetings, gents. So let's hear this week's sad story.
LENNY: They jerked my wheels, d'you believe it? I mean it's outrageous, the computer errors the banks are making lately. Have you noticed?
MACE: No. I haven't noticed because I make my payments. So, Max Pelcher, how's the P.I. business?
MAX: ( attention caught by
TV ): Hey, Bobby, turn that up. The LAPD is a military force turned against its own people. We live in a police state! The mayor and the city council sit up in their offices with their social programs that don't work. they're rearranging deck chairs on the Titanic. But the new day is coming! Two-K is coming! The day of reckoning is upon us. History ends and begins again right here! Right now!
MAX: To the end of all things! You know how I know it's the end of the world? Because everything's been done, every kind of music's been tried, every government's been tried, every fuckin' hairstyle. How you gonna make it another thousand years, for Chrissake?
MAX: I'm telling ya, it's over. We used it all up
LENNY: ( riveted to the TV ) Shutup a second!
MACE: Hey, isn't that Tran Vo?
MAX: Yup. He was Jeriko's manager. Bummer, Tran! Lost your golden goose. Couldn't happen to a nicer But I mean isn't he Faith's new
MACE: But I mean isn't he Faith's new
MAX: Sssssh! Not in front of Lenny. You may trigger a maudlin display which will force us to tranquilize him. The LAPD have said they believe this is a gang-related incident. Can you comment on that, Mr. Vo?
REPORTER: The LAPD have said they believe this is a gang-related incident. Can you comment on that, Mr. Vo?
TRAN: We have no facts yet. All we know for sure is that we have lost a great artist, that a great voice for change is now silent. Thanks for giving me a ride. I just have a few stops, mostly on the west Whoa, whoa, whoa. I said I'd drop you home, but I'm not taking you on your sleazoid rounds. I've already pulled twelve hours today.
LENNY: Thanks for giving me a ride. I just have a few stops, mostly on the west Whoa, whoa, whoa. I said I'd drop you home, but I'm not taking you on your sleazoid rounds. I've already pulled twelve hours today.
MACE: Whoa, whoa, whoa. I said I'd drop you home, but I'm not taking you on your sleazoid rounds. I've already pulled twelve hours today.
LENNY: ( upbeat again ) Come on, Mace. This is gonna be a big night. Can't you feel it? The energy in the air? There's money to be made, dreams to sell.
MACE: Sleaze to peddle.
LENNY: Just a couple of hours. It'll be Excuse me. What part of NO don't you understand?
MACE: Excuse me. What part of NO don't you understand?
LENNY: Mace, you're my friend. I need you. Plus I'll give you 25% of what I make tonight.
MACE: Lenny, this may be a hard concept for you, but friends don't have to pay their friends.
MACE: Jeez, you're pathetic. Okay, I got a pickup at the St. James. I'll take you there, you can get a cab.
LENNY: ( an arm around her Mace! You're a life-saver.
MACE: ( resigned ) Driving Mr. Lenny.
MACE: So, what's up with you? Another busy night selling porno to No, wrong. I sell experiences. Sex is only part of it.
LENNY: No, wrong. I sell experiences. Sex is only part of it.
MACE: Buncha techno-perv jerkoffs.
LENNY: Way I look at it, I actually perform a humanitarian service. I save Uh huh, I wanna hear this part.
MACE: Uh huh, I wanna hear this part.
LENNY: Okay, take some executive. bored with his life, bored with his wife. he picks up a hooker or some girl at a bar. Then he goes around for months, torn up worrying that he's got AIDS, that he'll infect his wife. And maybe he really does catch something
MACE: Price he pays for being a scumsucking pig.
LENNY: Everybody needs to take a walk to the dark end of the street sometime, it's what we are. But now the risks are outa line. The streets are a war zone. And sex can kill you. So you slip on the trodes, you get what you need and it keeps you from jumping your tracks.
MACE: Lenny, this shit's illegal.
LENNY: Define illegal.
MACE: Me bailing your sorry pale ass out of jail twice in the last six Yeah, but that was for love.
LENNY: ( kidding ) Yeah, but that was for love.
MACE: Define love.
MACE: Dammit, Lenny, you made me late.
LENNY: What's his name?
MACE: Mr. Fumitsu, good evening sir, Leonard Nero, Security Express. Lornette Mason here is just completing our routine driver evaluation. We do it to make sure that out VIP clients, such as yourself, are always treated as honored guests. I just need to ride up front and take some notes, if you don't mind.
LENNY: Mr. Fumitsu, good evening sir, Leonard Nero, Security Express. Lornette Mason here is just completing our routine driver evaluation. We do it to make sure that out VIP clients, such as yourself, are always treated as honored guests. I just need to ride up front and take some notes, if you don't mind.
MACE: Um, excuse me. Sir. Excuse me. Mr. Nero.
MACE: ( hissing through her What the fuck are you doing?
LENNY: ( winning smile, Coming with you.
MACE: You will not live to see the
STRICKLAND: ( uh-oh ) Commissioner Strickland.
LENNY: ( uh-oh ) Commissioner Strickland.
STRICKLAND: Commissioner Strickland.
LENNY: Sure. Whatever. See, since you shitcanned my career, I don't even have to call you sir. One of life's small pleasures.
STRICKLAND: Aren't you peddling your wares a little far from your usual gutter?
LENNY: I was invited here by a close friend, Mr. Fumitsu, see he's right over there.
STRICKLAND: I don't like disappointments, Nero. And do you know what disappoints me very much?
LENNY: Your sex life?
STRICKLAND: Your existence.
MACE: Now listen to me. you have to get to bed young man. I mean it. No watching "Tales from the Crypt". I don't care what Cecile says. I'll see you in the morning, baby. Night, night.
MACE: Are we having a bad night?
LENNY: ( glancing back ) Let's talk in the car.
FAITH: I feel like you're turning me into a
LENNY: I just want to see what we're like together through your eyes.
FAITH: I don't feel anything. Is it on?
LENNY: Forget it's there.
FAITH: Make me forget it, baby.
LENNY: Hey, careful on the jacket. This is You angry?
MACE: I've had enough of this shit. You're on foot, Lenny.
LENNY: In LA? Are you crazy?
LENNY: ( as they drive along ) Can I come in please? I'm having a hard time hearing the stereo.
LENNY: I need my case. It's still in the Get it.
MACE: Get it.
LENNY: Listen, can we talk a little bit here, like two rational adults?
LENNY: That would be no.
MACE: I've had it. No more wirehead shit in my car. You understand? You want to poach your lobes, do it somewhere else.
LENNY: Okay, you got my attention, but this is cutting off the circulation to my head, here. D'you mind?
LENNY: I thought we were friends.
MACE: No, see a friend is more than one person constantly doing favors for another. You just suck people along with your schemes and your scams and your slick act. Well I'm out. I got a kid, I got rent, I got an ex- husband someplace who doesn't send me a dime of support. I'm just trying to hold on here.
LENNY: So am I. Just trying to get by.
MACE: No, you're just trying to get off.
LENNY: Macey. I've never seen you like Lenny, you're turning into some kinda squid-head low-life. You're always broke, you just go from one score to the next. And you're getting strung out. you don't even see it. Getting high on your own supply like some crack dealer.
MACE: Lenny, you're turning into some kinda squid-head low-life. You're always broke, you just go from one score to the next. And you're getting strung out. you don't even see it. Getting high on your own supply like some crack dealer.
LENNY: I know you wouldn't be saying all this if you didn't care about me. Thanks, Mace. Really.
MACE: Look, I gotta get some sleep.
LENNY: You still like me, don't you? We're still buddies?
MACE: ( a tiny smile ) Yeah. I don't see a way out of it.
LENNY: Macey, I know you're tired, but can you drop me at the Retinal Fetish? It's on your way.
MACE: Jesus, Lenny.
LENNY: Begging? Groveling? Any pathetic behavior at all? Will that help? Faith's there tonight, and I've got to talk to her.
MACE: Sure, Lenny. The only thing worse than a junkie is someone in love.
LENNY: Come on, let me buy you a drink. Let's drink and make up. Alright, I'm going to see Faith. That means you can watch me suffer. I'll be in agony, you'll feel so much better. Total and thorough payback, whatdya say?
LENNY: Who's the new side of beef in Tran's Guy named Wade Beemer. Used to be a running back for the Rams in '96 and
MACE: Guy named Wade Beemer. Used to be a running back for the Rams in '96 and
LENNY: Rams. that's football, right?
MACE: Forget her.
LENNY: She still loves me.
MACE: She thinks you're a bucket of dog vomit. Trust me on this.
LENNY: She's my destiny.
MACE: Destiny? You living in a perfume commercial? She's a hard-climber that dropped you like a used tampon when she got a better ride.
LENNY: You'll see.
TRAN: You come to peddle me some tapes, Lenny? For old time's sake? Make a couple bucks for the holidays?
LENNY: You're not a client anymore, Tran. I wouldn't sell you the sweat off a dead dog's balls.
TRAN: ( glancing at Faith, I already got everything I need from Cut it out, Tran.
FAITH: Cut it out, Tran.
LENNY: Too bad about your guy Jeriko. Tough break.
TRAN: Show a little respect, Nero. The man was an important artist.
LENNY: Yeah, important for your label. Which no doubt is why you're in mourning. Don't worry, his records'll sell out now he's dead. You'll make out.
TRAN: I always do.
LENNY: Faith, can I talk to you a second?
FAITH: I don't think that's a good idea, I just got to talk to you for one About what?
LENNY: I just got to talk to you for one About what?
TRAN: About what?
LENNY: That would be between me and Faith, wouldn't it?
TRAN: I don't feel anything between you. See, your trouble is you assume too much, Lenny. You assume there's something where there's nothing. You assume you have a life. But you're only hustling pieces of other lives on tape, and broken parts of your own.
FAITH: ( icy ) We have nothing to talk about, Joey, make sure Mr. Nero gets safely to his car.
TRAN: Joey, make sure Mr. Nero gets safely to his car.
LENNY: Faith, call me, okay?
FAITH: No, Lenny.
LENNY: Tick, listen, I can't stop right now. but I'll call you tomorrow about that thing we were talking Lenny the loser. Panhandler of stolen dreams.
TRAN: Lenny the loser. Panhandler of stolen dreams.
FAITH: Leave him alone, Tran.
TRAN: He's no concern of mine, as long as you don't talk to him. Don't talk to anybody. You understand? Not with everything that's going on right now.
FAITH: You're too goddamned paranoid.
TRAN: Paranoia's only reality on a finer
LENNY: So, those rascals still haven't grown back yet, huh?
TEX: ( peering under the Nope. Guess not. Any day now, ( handing Tex a Squid ) Present. Something I had made. Let me know what you think.
LENNY: ( handing Tex a Squid ) Present. Something I had made. Let me know what you think.
TEX: Hey, alright. Got something here for you, too. It just showed up tonight, don't know who left it.
LENNY: Fan mail from some flounder?
LENNY: Hi, baby. I've missed you.
FAITH: I know. Lenny, if Tran finds you talking to me he'll hurt you.
LENNY: I'm already hurting.
FAITH: You have to go. I mean it.
LENNY: Yeah, OK, whatever you say. Just answer one question. Is anything wrong? Iris said you might be in You talked to Iris? When?
FAITH: ( startled, turning You talked to Iris? When?
LENNY: Well I haven't seen her in months. Who knows what's going on in her head. You're really running out of excuses to come around, aren't you?
FAITH: Well I haven't seen her in months. Who knows what's going on in her head. You're really running out of excuses to come around, aren't you?
LENNY: I know you Faith. You're afraid of something. What's going on?
FAITH: Let it alone, Lenny. It'll take care of itself.
LENNY: It's Tran, isn't it? This guy is poison, Faith. Listen to me. He's got you walled in on all sides. And he uses the wire too much, he gets off on tape, not on you.
FAITH: That's a good one, coming from you.
LENNY: Why don't you just split? You don't love him, anybody can see that. And to him you're just some kinda possession, like a Ferrari, something to show the other guys.
FAITH: He has his uses too.
LENNY: What? He gonna record you on his Come on, Faith! He's just toying with you. And when he gets bored, you'll be yesterday's papers.
FAITH: Come on, Faith! He's just toying with you. And when he gets bored, you'll be yesterday's papers.
LENNY: Come on, Faith! He's just toying with you. And when he gets bored, you'll be yesterday's papers.
LENNY: Look, baby, I've watched you create yourself out of nothing. You're like a goddamn cruise missile, targeted on making it. And you Damn right.
FAITH: Damn right.
LENNY: It's you up on that stage, not him. You don't need him.
FAITH: You have to get out of here. If Tran catches you he'll. he's acting crazy. He's doing way too much playback and he's getting completely paranoid. He's such a control freak, he's even paying Max to follow me around.
LENNY: Max Pelcher? You're kidding?
FAITH: Yeah, for about a month now. Lenny, just stay away from Tran, okay? And stay away from me. Stop trying to rescue me. Those days are over. I'm a big girl now. Stop trying to save me, okay, because I don't need saving. Just. give up on me.
LENNY: Can't do it.
FAITH: You know one of the ways movies still have Squid beat? Because they always say "The End." You always know when it's over. It's over! Now please leave. I have to go on again in a couple of minutes.
FAITH: CUT TO:
LENNY: Shoulda told me about your new gig, I was gonna tell ya. Hey, it's just a job. I feel like shit about it.
MAX: I was gonna tell ya. Hey, it's just a job. I feel like shit about it.
LENNY: You should feel like shit.
MAX: I figured, what the hell, I could take the prick's money and make sure Faith was OK at the same time. Do us both good. Right?
LENNY: Fairly twisted logic, Max, even for Hey, at least you got a job! Watch her for me. Stay on her.
MAX: I'm on her.
LENNY: Can I get that?
MACE: Hey Lenny, where the hell are you, I think Tran's got Beemer looking for
LENNY: Thanks for the tip.
LENNY: I recognize you. You're Wade Beemer. Running back for the Rams, am I right?
BEEMER: Yeah, that's right.
LENNY: I saw you play, man. You were good. Like a fucking freight train I remember saying. So what happened, injuries or what?
BEEMER: Bullshit politics.
LENNY: It's always politics. Like this thing we're in here, he's paying you to tune me up, right? But I could pay you more not to. See what I mean? I could write you a check right now
BEEMER: Come on, let's go, I got to get Okay cash! Logical. Here's everything I have on me, what do you say? How about a Rolex?
LENNY: ( pulling money out Okay cash! Logical. Here's everything I have on me, what do you say? How about a Rolex?
BEEMER: ( barely a glance at I already got a real one. Come on, it won't be too bad. It's not ( taking off the Just not the eyes.
LENNY: ( taking off the Just not the eyes.
LENNY: They oughta get some lights back there. A person could get killed slipping on those stairs. Let's go.
MACE: You're some piece of work, you know that. Just calmly backstroking around in the big toilet bowl, and somehow you never let it touch you. I mean, between Vice and this so- called occupation you're in now, you must've seen it all.
LENNY: I have crawled through the gutter. through every wrinkle in the human What I'm saying. But you still come out this goofball romantic.
MACE: What I'm saying. But you still come out this goofball romantic.
LENNY: It is my sword and my shield, Macey.
MACE: What's that? Present from Faith?
LENNY: No idea.
LENNY: It's a test pattern so far.
LENNY: Alright, a little B
LENNY: Hey, getting good. Solid suspense
MACE: What is it?
LENNY: Go to the Sunset Sheraton. RIGHT NOW! Just go! GO! I haven't seen your face. I haven't heard your voice. you can still let me go.
IRIS: ( voice distorted ) I haven't seen your face. I haven't heard your voice. you can still let me go.
LENNY: Holy shit. He's jacking her in to his own output. She's seeing what he's seeing. She's seeing herself.
LENNY: ( like a mantra ) On my God. Oh my God. My God, Lenny. What is it?
MACE: My God, Lenny. What is it?
LENNY: Black. Jack.
MACE: Blackjack? I don't understand
LENNY: Snuff clip. It was Iris. She said she needed my help and I. aw Jesus, Mace. the sick fucker killed her.
MACE: Are you sure it's real?
MAX: Ohhhh shit.
MAX: Well. I've lost my appetite. For about a year.
MACE: No way.
MAX: You alright? Y'okay?
LENNY: Yeah. No, not really.
MAX: Let's work it.
LENNY: Not now. I don't want to think about it
MAX: Come on, Lenny. You used to be good at this stuff. Play it down. What's the perp doing?
LENNY: He stalks her. He rapes her. Then he does her.
MAX: And he records it. Thrill kill. Wants to see it again. And again.
LENNY: He records himself raping and killing her
MAX: But at the same time he's sending the signal to her
LENNY: So she feels. what he feels. while he's in her. The thrill while he's killing her. is sent to her, heightening her fear. which in turn heightens the turn on for him. I've seen a lot, Max.
MAX: So've I. Too much.
LENNY: But this is a bad one.
MAX: Top ten.
LENNY: He makes her see her own death, feeds off the reaction. killer and victim merging. orgasm and agony merging. And he records it all.
MACE: And gives it to you.
LENNY: Wants to share.
MAX: That's right. He wants to share. Needs an audience. This is one sick Why me?
LENNY: Why me?
MACE: Cause you're the man, right? The Magic Man. If it's got something to do with the wire, sooner or later it washes up on your beach.
LENNY: I've never dealt in black-jacks. Never. Everybody knows that.
MAX: He's skull-fucking you, bud. Trying to get a reaction. Maybe pushing you to do something.
MACE: Maybe he just figures Lenny will appreciate what he's created. It's the dark end of the street, Lenny. How do you like it now?
LENNY: Jesus, Mace. Back off.
MACE: This guy is someone you know, one of your squid-head contacts.
MAX: Problem is, Lenny knows everybody.
MACE: Take the tape to the cops.
LENNY: Uh unh. No way! They'd crucify me.
MACE: So some psycho wire-freak gets to keep running around
MAX: Naw, he's right. They'll figure Lenny's the perp, or go through his client list, ruin his life. such as it is. Look, I'll call the guys in Homicide. tell them she was a friend of mine and they'll keep me in the loop. Get me the forensics and all that. Get some sleep. I'll call you when I get something. And Lenny. I'd keep moving if I were you.
FAITH: ( whispering, furtive ) You're crazier than I thought, Lenny. Coming here. Tran's just in there.
LENNY: Iris is dead. She was murdered.
FAITH: Who did it?
LENNY: Don't know. But this guy's real damaged goods. Iris knew someone was after her. and she said you were in danger too. Now no more games, Faith. Whatever you're hiding, whatever's going on, you have to get out of here now. Come with me right now. Don't even think about it.
FAITH: Then what? Then what, Lenny?! You going to protect me? Big tough guy. You're a talker, Lenny. You don't even have a gun.
LENNY: ( hurt ) I have a gun. It's under my bed.
FAITH: You don't know what you're fucking with here.
LENNY: Tell me.
TRAN: Go ahead, Faith. Tell him.
FAITH: Look, Tran. Lenny just came by to give me some bad news. An old friend of mine has been murdered. You remember Iris?
TRAN: A tragic story, no doubt. How'd you get up here?
LENNY: ( looks at Faith ) Uh huh. Look, Nero. I'll make you an offer. ( he grabs Faith by Take her. Right now. If she wants to go, if she's unhappy here, she can go. I'll let her choose. Faith always knows what she wants. ( he turns her loose ) Hands off. See?
TRAN: ( looks at Faith ) Uh huh. Look, Nero. I'll make you an offer. ( he grabs Faith by Take her. Right now. If she wants to go, if she's unhappy here, she can go. I'll let her choose. Faith always knows what she wants. ( he turns her loose ) Hands off. See?
LENNY: It's alright. He means it.
TRAN: ( to Faith ) I do mean it. ( to Lenny ) And I mean this. if Faith stays you go away and never come back. You scuttle back into your cockroach hole and never cross my vision again. You understand?
FAITH: I made my choice, Lenny.
TRAN: ( to Lenny, nodding You're going down.
FAITH: I don't love you, Lenny. Give up.
FAITH: You said you were going to get her out of this.
TRAN: Maybe now you appreciate the danger we're in. It was touching the way you stood by me in there. "Stand by your man". I was moved. You were very good. I don't think he even understands that you did it for him.
FAITH: He doesn't know what's going on. Leave him alone.
TRAN: I'd love to. But he keeps showing up. And you keep talking to him. I can't have that
TRAN: The only time a whore should open her mouth is when she's giving head.
FAITH: Fuck you.
TRAN: ( walking away ) Maybe later.
LENNY: ( speed-rap ) Listen, can we be smart here? I could make it really worth your while. I could cut you a check for 500 each. hell, make it an even grand. I'm not saying you don't land a couple shots, just go light is all I'm saying. here, take my Lemme see.
CORTO: Lemme see.
CORTO: We tried to find a smaller girl, to beat the shit out of you, Lenny. but it was short notice.
MACE: Safety's on.
MACE: Mace grabs him and pulls him out of the room, then slams the metal firedoor behind them, locking it with a piece of junk wedged behind the release bar.
LENNY: Is this great fabric or what?
MACE: You ever wonder why you get beat up a lot?
LENNY: Never really thought about it.
LENNY: He knows what he's doing. He's worn before. a lot.
MACE: So that gives you something.
LENNY: It gives me. I don't know. maybe two hundred people who I know wear.
MACE: Don't crank the gain any more. You're gonna fry yourself.
LENNY: I need to see more. get more detail. Something. I feel his presence, so strong.
MACE: No more, Lenny.
LENNY: Yeah. I'm ghosting pretty bad.
LENNY: She came to me for help. I should have read it better. I just figured, y'know. another strung- out hooker having a bad night.
MACE: It's not your fault. Sex killers act alone. So there's no information on the street, which is how cases get made. Cops know they'll never nail this guy the second they look at the scene.
LENNY: Sex killers act alone. So there's no information on the street, which is how cases get made. Cops know they'll never nail this guy the second they look at the scene.
LENNY: And anyway, nobody gives a shit about a dead hooker. They're
LENNY: See, it's all about what they see walking in. A dead hooker, handcuffs, penetration. they'll see a trick gone wrong. Random kill. The kind you never solve.
MACE: But that doesn't add, does it.
LENNY: No it doesn't.
MACE: Because Iris knew somebody was after
LENNY: She said "If they get me". They. Which means the whole sex-killer thing is a cover, which means somebody whacked her for a reason.
MACE: So the guy's not a sicko.
LENNY: If he could do what's on that tape, he's a sicko.
MACE: Okay, so he's a freak who thinks he's sane pretending to be a freak. The point is, he was a hitter. Somebody wanted to shut her up. But why not just put a little lead in her ear?
LENNY: Because it had to look random. Not connected to anything or anyone. But then why give the rape to me?
MACE: That's where it gets a little And what about the guy that was following me?
LENNY: And what about the guy that was following me?
MACE: Now you're really getting paranoid.
LENNY: The question is not whether I am paranoid, but whether I am paranoid enough. You want to rub my neck?
MACE: Mace sits next to him and starts to work. Strong, knowing fingers. Lenny starts to relax a little.
LENNY: How's Zander?
MACE: OK. He asks about you all the time. It's been weeks since you've seen
MACE: I'm sorry about getting on your case earlier. I just see you getting sucked in deeper and deeper, and I anyway. I'm sorry.
LENNY: ( drifting off, S'okay. I know you still love me.
ZANDER: Where were you Mom? Did you meet a Just Lenny.
MACE: Just Lenny.
ZANDER: Right. That explains it.
MACE: Are you going to make me beg?
MACE: ( looking at weird What is that?
ZANDER: Cheerios and wieners. I made it myself. It's good.
MACE: Well give me some then. I'm
LENNY: W'sup, Max?
MAX: Not a whole hell of a lot. They've just been saying words over Jeriko. Tensions running pretty high down here. I'm telling you.
MAX: Yeah. She's leaving with Tran so I got to boogie. Real quick. Iris checked into the Sheraton last night under a false name. Paid cash.
LENNY: Looks like she was holding out.
MAX: Yup. Hey, so I heard you dropped in on Tran last night. Another slick Lenny move.
MAX: I'm on her, amigo. No worries. Gotta jam.
MACE: Whatup Lenny?
LENNY: ( hands shaking ) Jesus, Mace!
MACE: Where we going?
LENNY: ( finger to his lips ) We'll talk about it in the car.
LENNY: Hand me that box of tapes, will you?
MACE: What is it?
LENNY: This tie doesn't go with blue!
POOR MAN: . the New Years Eve mega-bash of the century. Ten square blocks of madness, with live music, fireworks and the actual rich and famous of LA hobnobbing with us peons. Also yours truly the Poor Man will be there at the KROQ bandshell, giving away "Millennium LA" and "KROQ 2-K" T-shirts by the truckload
MACE: Will you relax. There's nobody back Mace, the guy had a knife. To my throat. In my living room. Relaxing might be right out, okay?!
LENNY: Mace, the guy had a knife. To my throat. In my living room. Relaxing might be right out, okay?!
MACE: You better keep a low profile for a No shit. You got someplace in mind?
LENNY: No shit. You got someplace in mind?
ZANDER: What do you got?
LENNY: ( pulls a tape out of Today I have.
MACE: ( seeing the tape ) Lenny, have you lost it completely?
LENNY: Easy, there, Mom. Easy. This is audio only. John Coltrane. "A Love Supreme." Give it a listen, let me know what you think, maybe you won't go for it now, but it'll get in your head and grow like a seed into something really beautiful.
ZANDER: Let's play it now!
LENNY: Later. Your mom'n I are heading right back out.
CECILE: Hey, come on, I been baby-sitting a full 24 hours, I have to get ready for the party tonight.
MACE: Mace frosts her with a look. You don't mess with Mace.
MACE: ( to a disappointed You're not the only little boy I have to look out for, honey.
TICK: Whoa. That is one unbelievable piece of eyefuck.
LENNY: Skip the art criticism, Tick, what can you tell me about the wearer.
TICK: Well. the guy's fucked up.
MACE: We know that, Tick.
TICK: No, I mean the killer's got some kind of distortion in his visual cortex. The color and gray-scale values are all messed up, like color Lookit, you see the peak period ratios there? Could be some kind of tumor or brain lesion or something. Some kind of trauma This is not good. I don't like this at all.
TICK: Lookit, you see the peak period ratios there? Could be some kind of tumor or brain lesion or something. Some kind of trauma This is not good. I don't like this at all.
LENNY: Well, it's cutting awful close to me. I mean she was just here.
TICK: Well, it's cutting awful close to me. I mean she was just here.
LENNY: Who was just here?
TICK: Iris, man. Pay attention.
LENNY: Wait, wait. wait a minute. Iris was here?!
TICK: Yeah, she came by last night. Shaking like a junkie, wanting me to make a copy of some clip.
LENNY: What clip? What was it?
TICK: I don't know, man, she wouldn't let me see it. Said I wouldn't want to see it. She said she was going to give it to you to hold for her. Like insurance or somethin'
LENNY: She never gave me a tape.
MACE: ( to Lenny ) Think back about what she said. Exactly what she said.
LENNY: ( revved up ) She wanted to go out to my car, something about my car.
MACE: Something in your car.
LENNY: That's a handy little attitude Damn. I'm boxed in.
IRIS.": What's it say?
MACE: What's it say?
LENNY: Nothing. Let's go play this back.
SPREG: Give me the tape. Right now.
LENNY: What tape? I'm just trying to get my car back but the place is Shut the fuck up Nero.
SPREG: Shut the fuck up Nero.
MACE: ( cool and even ) Lenny, give them the tape.
LENNY: It's in my case. Okay? I'm going to open my case.
ENGELMAN: Facing us, where we can see it.
LENNY: Take it and turn her loose. Okay?
SPREG: And you see in his eyes that it isn't going to go that way. Spreg edges forward and takes the tape. Then he points his pistol at Lenny's head, about to fire Which is when the pissed-off Rottweiller shoots through the open gate like a black torpedo and tears into Engelman's leg. Engelman screams in pain. Mace twists out of his grip. Engelman shoots the dog. Lenny swings up his Haliburton, using it as a shield, and dives for the car. The case takes three rounds from Spreg's 9mm before Lenny gets behind cover. Mace just seems to vanish. She reappears over the trunk of the limo and puts two rounds squarely into Spreg's chest, knocking him down. Lenny and Mace scramble into the car, starting it up. Spreg sits up, pulling up his shirt to make sure his body armor stopped the slugs. No blood. He comes up firing. He and Engelman empty their magazines at the limo as it pulls away. No damage. They realize the limo is a bullet proof security model and run to their pickup truck, parked nearby, to give chase. Spreg's face is a mask of rage. He slams the truck in gear and accelerates after the limo before Engelman even has the door closed.
LENNY: ( holding on ) Oh no, we're not being followed, Lenny, Don't be so paranoid, Lenny.
LENNY: Take it easy. The glass is bullet Bullet resistant? Whatever happened to bullet proof?
MACE: Take it easy. The glass is bullet Bullet resistant? Whatever happened to bullet proof?
LENNY: Bullet resistant? Whatever happened to bullet proof?
MACE: Lenny. Calm down. This is what I
LENNY: Goddamnit!! 911 is busy!
MACE: It's okay, Lenny They'd never get here in time
MACE: ( matter-of-fact ) This is bad.
LENNY: The gas tank's going to go any
LENNY: Are you out of your fucking mind?!
MACE: Fire's out, isn't it?
MACE: Get in here. Come on Lenny, move it. MOVE!!
MACE: Get ready to hold your breath.
MACE: Lenny, kick out hard, then just follow me. Okay?
SPREG: Let's get out of here.
MACE: I can't believe we had to give them the damn tape.
LENNY: Yeah, me neither. It was one of my favorites. Me and Faith in a hot tub on my birthday. I'm going to really miss it.
LENNY: Are we impressed yet?
CURTIS: ( pissed ) I got better things to do on New Year's Eve than be some kinda damn Hey Curtis? Just drive.
MACE: Hey Curtis? Just drive.
LENNY: Those two guys were cops.
MACE: You sure?
LENNY: It's the walk. Something. Anyway, they'll run your plates and get your address. We gotta keep moving.
CECILE: Lornette, girl. what's going on?
MACE: ( to Zander ) We're going to aunt Cecile's, honey. We're going to watch fireworks from there. Let's go. Chop chop.
ZANDER: Aw, Mom!
LENNY: Come on Zander. You can ride on my shoulders. Here you go.
MACE: Cecile, get in the car. Now.
MACE: He's with me.
MACE: Tell me.
LENNY: I can't tell you. You've got to Uh unh. I won't do it.
MACE: Uh unh. I won't do it.
LENNY: Mace. I know what you think about the wire. But I'm asking you to do this. It's that important.
LENNY: Sorry this has to be your first
LENNY: Keep your eyes closed, or you'll see
JERIKO: Shit. Fuckin' Five-O
COP VOICE: ( on bullhorn ) Go to the bottom of the ramp.
JERIKO: ( jumping out of the Goddamn, now what you pull me over for? If I was going any slower I'd be parked
ENGELMAN: ( to us ) Put your hands on the hood of the car and don't move.
JERIKO: I suppose you stopped us cause you had suspects fitting our description in the area, what you're gonna tell me. What was the description? Two black males in a car? Yeah, right, I heard that one before.
JERIKO: Well you stopped the wrong black male tonight officer. what is it? Spreg. Officer Spreg. Cause I'm the 800 pound gorilla in your mist, fucker. I make more in a day than you make in a year, and my lawyers love to spend my money dragging sorry-ass Aryan robocops like you into court. Get a man down on the ground with no probable cause. Fuck Shut the fuck up! Leave the fuck off of us, we weren't doing anything.
SPREG: Shut the fuck up! Leave the fuck off of us, we weren't doing anything.
DIAMANDA: ( yelling ) Leave the fuck off of us, we weren't doing anything.
SPREG: Shut up! Don't make me walk over You're that rap puke? Jeriko One? You're the one getting all the gangbangers to form citizens groups and go downtown. trying to rake the LAPD over a cheese grater?
SPREG: You're that rap puke? Jeriko One? You're the one getting all the gangbangers to form citizens groups and go downtown. trying to rake the LAPD over a cheese grater?
JERIKO: That's right. And you're gonna be in my next song, motherfucker, it's called Robo-Spreg. It's a song about a cop who meets his worst nightmare, a nigger with enough political juice to crush his ass like a stink bug. You're gonna be famous.
JERIKO: It's a song about a cop who meets his worst nightmare, a nigger with enough political juice to crush his ass like a stink bug. You're gonna be famous.
SPREG: I don't think so.
SPREG: ( shouting ) Hey. I don't hear you laughing!
SPREG: Get the bitches.
LENNY: ( into phone ) Hang on. Hang on, Max. ( looks at Mace ) You see?
MACE: I see. I see the earth opening up and swallowing us all.
LENNY: Yeah I know. So what do we do?
MAX: ( into phone ) Don't talk to anybody. Anybody. You're invisible. Okay? Just meet me at Tick's in a half hour. And Lenny. don't get pulled over.
LENNY: We got to make another copy of this. Little life insurance.
MACE: You know what this tape could do if it gets out.
LENNY: ( tucking Glock in I've got a good idea, yeah.
MACE: People finding out. seeing. that the LAPD just flat out executed Jeriko One. Jesus. Maybe they ought to see.
LENNY: Maybe. But tonight is probably not the best night. Come on, we're
CECILE: Lornette, when you gonna stop laying off everything on me? We had plans Listen to me, little sister. There's something going on, and it's very big. Now you've got to take care of Zander. And stay off the streets tonight. you hear me on
MACE: ( steely ) Listen to me, little sister. There's something going on, and it's very big. Now you've got to take care of Zander. And stay off the streets tonight. you hear me on
MACE: Curtis. What about you? Do we understand each other? You stay Yeah. I'm wit it.
CURTIS: Yeah. I'm wit it.
CURTIS: ( to Cecile ) Damn! She worse than you.
LENNY: So, let's see, I've got Tran's goons, some squidhead psycho and the LAPD all trying to kill me. Happy new year, Lenny.
MACE: Well, look at the plus side.
LENNY: There's a plus side?
MACE: Yeah. You gave up your hot tub tape to save me. That's real progress for you.
LENNY: It was a tough call.
MACE: I still can't square the psycho smarts of whoever did Iris with those two cops.
LENNY: I don't think those cops did Iris. I think whoever Iris was wearing for killed her.
MACE: To break the trail. If those cops had gotten hold of her, they would have beat it out of her who she was wearing for, and then gone after them too. Our killer is running as scared as we are. Which makes him really dangerous. Judging by how scared I am.
LENNY: To break the trail. If those cops had gotten hold of her, they would have beat it out of her who she was wearing for, and then gone after them too. Our killer is running as scared as we are. Which makes him really dangerous. Judging by how scared I am.
MAX: Sounds like Tick's already You may be a little overdressed for this party. Yo, Tick! It's Lenny. Open up!
LENNY: You may be a little overdressed for this party. Yo, Tick! It's Lenny. Open up!
LENNY: ( knocks again, then opens Tick, I got to talk to you, man. oh shit.
LENNY: ( as he starts to He's been cooked-off
MAX: Is he dead?
LENNY: No. But his frontal lobes are like two runny eggs. They put an amplifier in-line to boost the signal till it french-fried his
LENNY: He's totally cut off from the outer How long does it last? Those two psycho cops are on a slash-and-burn to find the tape and cover their tracks.
MACE: How long does it last? Those two psycho cops are on a slash-and-burn to find the tape and cover their tracks.
MAX: Those two psycho cops are on a slash-and-burn to find the tape and cover their tracks.
MACE: This seems a little sophisticated for them. These are not subtle There's more to this whole thing than you think.
MAX: There's more to this whole thing than you think.
LENNY: Whattya mean?
MAX: All I'm saying. you don't know how high up the food chain this thing goes. I've heard stuff.
LENNY: What stuff?
MAX: Smoke. Rumors. I've heard stuff about a death squad. A group a guys loyal to the hardline school. Guys that've had too many years of city hall and the review boards and the goddamn media pissing down their necks, suspending cops right and left, tying their hands. while outa the other side a their mouths these same people're squealing save us, save us, do something you fucking morons, crime is totally out of control.
LENNY: Yeah. So don't walk near me in public, alright.
MAX: Yeah. So don't walk near me in public, alright.
LENNY: Thanks, buddy. See. things weren't bad enough. They weren't fucking bad enough!
MACE: The only card we have to play is the tape. You know, we get it to the media somehow.
LENNY: Yeah, right, blow it open.
MAX: ( interrupting ) Mace. no disrespect. but you run this on the 11 o'clock news, by midnight you got the biggest riot in history. They'll see the fucking smoke from Canada.
LENNY: Okay. what about Strickland?
MAX: No. Bad idea.
MACE: Who's Strickland?
LENNY: Deputy Commissioner Palmer Strickland. The sanctimonious prick who busted me out. His ass is so tight when he farts only dogs can hear it. I know this guy. If there's one cop who's not dirty it's him.
MAX: Listen to me, Lenny. stay away from cops. All cops. You have no way of knowing who you can trust.
MACE: So you're saying we just pretend is didn't happen? It happened! The LAPD executed one of the most important black men in America! Who the fuck are you to bury this?!
MAX: Fine. Do you want blood running waist deep in the storm drains? The gangbangers'll spread like a wave through this city and burn it to the ground. And when the fires start the street cops'll be capping off at anything that moves. It'll be all- out war and you know it.
MACE: Yeah, well maybe it's time for a You really want that on your head?
MAX: You really want that on your head?
LENNY: Hey, Max, Mace. whoa. time out.
LENNY: Whoever killed Iris did Tick. It's the same sick wirehead shit. Same reason. to burn the trail. If Faith knows anything about this, and I think she does, then she's on the list. So. who's driving?
FAITH: Lenny! Jesus! You scared the Hell out of me.
FAITH: What's going on?
LENNY: Faith, we know about Jeriko. Iris made me a copy of the tape.
FAITH: Oh God, Lenny. I was trying to keep you out of this.
LENNY: How did it happen? What was Iris doing riding around with Jeriko wearing a wire?
FAITH: We should talk alone.
LENNY: No. Mace is in this.
MACE: Tell us.
FAITH: Tran's gotten obsesses with playback, a total wiretrip junkie. And he's such a control freak, he's been having people followed, videotaped. recording his business partners' calls. Wiring up people left and right.
TRAN: Let's go get her. We're late. Tran, listen. I was wondering how you want me to work it tonight, down at the Bonaventure. You want me downstairs at the party or upstairs at the suite? Where you going to be, mostly?
MAX: Tran, listen. I was wondering how you want me to work it tonight, down at the Bonaventure. You want me downstairs at the party or upstairs at the suite? Where you going to be, mostly?
FAITH: Tran and Jeriko weren't getting along. He was afraid Jeriko was getting ready to dump him, but he wasn't sure, so he started with the surveillance. A couple nights ago he wires up Iris and sends her and the other girl, Diamanda, over to Jeriko's table.
FAITH: That night Iris calls up, freaking. She comes over and Tran watches the tape. He just loses it. He can't believe the disaster she's gotten him into. He's terrified the cops will beat it out of her who she was working for, and come looking for Kinda guy you can count on in a Why didn't he just go public with the tape? Save himself that way.
LENNY: Kinda guy you can count on in a Why didn't he just go public with the tape? Save himself that way.
MACE: Why didn't he just go public with the tape? Save himself that way.
FAITH: The scandal would wipe him out. If it got out that he had his own artists under surveillance. he'd lose all his other acts. He'd be
FAITH: So finally he gives Iris some cash and tells her to check into the hotel under a wrong name till he figures out what to do.
LENNY: Yeah. he figured out what to do all right.
FAITH: You think Tran killed her?
LENNY: The killer knew right where she was. Because he put her there.
FAITH: What a nightmare.
TRAN: Go get her, Joey. Stupid bitch. We'll talk about this later.
MACE: Come on. We're out of here.
LENNY: Leave here with me, right now.
FAITH: Okay, Lenny. My guardian angel.
TEX: Teach you. to mess with. a helpless cripple!
CORTO: ( to the others ) Not here. Lets go.
MAX: Everything's cool. Too much to
MACE: Yeah, uh. he slipped on the stairs. We're taking him to Excuse me.
COP: Go to Cedars. It's closest.
FAITH: Well, I'm certainly in the mood for a party.
TRAN: ( to Wade ) Take her up to the suite. ( to Faith ) Have a glass of champagne. or six. I'll be up in a while to help you ring in the New Year.
FAITH: I live for the moment.
MACE: You are a pussy-whipped sorry-ass motherfucker, you know that?
LENNY: Owww!! Take it easy. Uh huh. So where are they now?
MAX: He's got her up in the room, under guard. And he's still working the party. acting smooth like nothin's nothin'. So buddy. I say we work a trade.
MAX: Give him the tape. See? It's fucking brilliant! The tape for Faith. I know he'll go for it. I can set it up.
MAX: Come on! If he gives us any shit, we kill 'em all. Whattya say? Just get your butt down here. If I'm not at the shindig downstairs go to the room. It's 2203. You
LENNY: 2-2-0-3. Got it. Stay on her.
LENNY: Okay, we gotta get over there. Can you borrow a dress from Cecile or something
MACE: I'm not going.
LENNY: Whatya mean? We're going! Tran's gonna do her right there unless
MACE: Lenny. shutup. Just park your mouth and listen. It's a set-up. Think about it! Why's he been sending you tapes? To freak you, get you to rush in without thinking. Then they put one in you, put one in her, put the gun in your hand. crime of passion. This guy's bent enough to think of that.
LENNY: That sounds right. I'm going. You gonna get yourself killed for this? This toxic-waste bitch! What the fuck are you doing?!
MACE: You gonna get yourself killed for this? This toxic-waste bitch! What the fuck are you doing?!
LENNY: What the fuck are you doing?!
MACE: Lenny! This is your life, Lenny! Right here. Right now. This is realtime. not playback. Real. time. Time to get real. Understand what I'm saying. she doesn't love you. Maybe she did once, I don't know, but she doesn't now. These are used emotions. It's time to trade them in.
MACE: Lenny, memories were meant to fade. They're designed that way for a
LENNY: Have you ever been in love with somebody who didn't return that Yeah. Lenny. I have.
MACE: Yeah. Lenny. I have.
LENNY: It didn't stop you from loving them. Right? Or understanding them, or being able to forgive them.
MACE: I guess.
LENNY: And it didn't stop you from wanting to protect them. Did it?
MACE: No. It didn't.
LENNY: I worked Vice, Narcotics. Violent Crimes. and I saw every known depravity. I was lost, Mace. In outer darkness. Then I busted this strung-out little teeny-hooker. When I met Faith she was just another runaway giving twenty dollar blowjobs to buy crank. Another lost You never told me.
MACE: You never told me.
LENNY: But she was different. There was a light in her eyes. and she had this voice. It was scary, all that pain coming out of that little body. Like she could take all the hurt and rage of the entire world and lift it up to heaven in one voice. I helped her. And I promised her that I'd always be there. to protect her. See? It's not about what's in her head. It's what's in mine. I can't let go of the promise. It's. like. it's all I have left.
MACE: No, it's not.
MACE: Come on, Lenny. Let's go to a
MACE: That's it. Let's bail.
LENNY: Mace. you're a girl.
MACE: Good, Lenny. I can see why the detective gig didn't work out. Come
LENNY: Got your ticket?
MACE: No. They must have sent it to my beach house by mistake.
LENNY: You see Tran?
MACE: Uh unh.
LENNY: ( to the ringing Come on, Max. Come on, buddy. ( two more rings )
LENNY: Alright. We're going up.
MACE: And do what? Take on his whole I still got one ace to play. Tran's got what I want. and I've got what he wants.
LENNY: I still got one ace to play. Tran's got what I want. and I've got what he wants.
MACE: That's the original. There are no Exactly. That's why it's a make- able deal.
LENNY: ( not getting it ) Exactly. That's why it's a make- able deal.
MACE: Look. That tape is a lightning bolt from God. It's worth more than you, more than me, more than Faith. You understand? It can change things. Things that need changing before we all go off the end of the road. And you do not have the right to use it for currency. You go. you go alone. This is where I draw the line. I care about you Lenny. a lot more than you know. which makes us both pretty stupid. But you pawn that tape, you mean nothing to me.
MACE: Ah, hell. Lenny
LENNY: See that guy? The one with the ramrod up his ass. That's Strickland.
LENNY: Take it to him.
MACE: A cop? You want me to trust a cop?!
LENNY: No. Trust me. Oh boy. What if you're wrong?
MACE: ( nodding slowly ) Oh boy. ( she takes a deep What if you're wrong?
LENNY: Then we'll be right where we are Yeah, right. Fucked.
MACE: Yeah, right. Fucked.
STRICKLAND: She puts the playback deck on top of Strickland's urinal. He scowls.
MACE: There's a tape in there you need to see. I mean right now.
STRICKLAND: If it wasn't New Year's Eve, I'd arrest you for possession of illegal Just look at the tape! You want to know who killed Jeriko One? Go in the stall right now and hit Play.
MACE: ( interrupting ) Just look at the tape! You want to know who killed Jeriko One? Go in the stall right now and hit Play.
YOUNG COP: Sir, is there a problem here?
MACE: Damn! I knew it
LENNY: Now, Wade, can we talk here, like two human beings
LENNY: It's not personal.
CORTO: Aw, not the fucking nose!!
VITA: Hey, enjoy the party.
FAITH: Oh. I didn't hear you come in.
LENNY: No, no, no.
FAITH: I love you.
TRAN: You're going to die, you're both going to fucking die. This piece of puke hired me to kill you, baby. Do you believe that? Isn't that right, Tran? You Oh my God. I don't believe this is Believe it. Now bring me the trodes, baby. Come on, quick.
MAX: This piece of puke hired me to kill you, baby. Do you believe that? Isn't that right, Tran? You Oh my God. I don't believe this is Believe it. Now bring me the trodes, baby. Come on, quick.
FAITH: Oh my God. I don't believe this is Believe it. Now bring me the trodes, baby. Come on, quick.
MAX: Believe it. Now bring me the trodes, baby. Come on, quick.
FAITH: What're you going to do?
FAITH: You can't just. kill him.
MAX: I'm not. Just a little poach job.
FAITH: Hey, he was going to kill you. And this ratfuck paid to have Iris killed, to save his own sorry ass. You shut the fuck up, right now, I'm gonna pull this fuckin' trigger!
MAX: Hey, he was going to kill you. And this ratfuck paid to have Iris killed, to save his own sorry ass. You shut the fuck up, right now, I'm gonna pull this fuckin' trigger!
MAX: You shut the fuck up, right now, I'm gonna pull this fuckin' trigger!
MAX: Look, baby, it's now of never. the guy is a known input junkie, so a little OD won't surprise anybody. It's the only way we can be together. You know it's true.
FAITH: My God.
MAX: Here's how much I love you, baby.
MAX: Don't make any assumptions about our friendship, Lenny.
LENNY: No. I suppose not. I didn't know you were colorblind, Max.
MAX: Only way I could stand your ties.
MAX: I'll have that. Glock 22. Nice.
LENNY: Where's Faith?
MAX: I sent her to the party. I figured I'd wait up here until you killed What makes you think I'm gonna kill
LENNY: What makes you think I'm gonna kill
MAX: You just did.
LENNY: You know, statistically that's the second most common word people say right before they die. Shit being number one.
MAX: You know, statistically that's the second most common word people say right before they die. Shit being number one.
LENNY: So. I killed Tran. Then you ran in, being on his payroll, and shot That's pretty much the way it
MAX: That's pretty much the way it
LENNY: Wait a minute. Now I'm remembering. I killed Iris too, didn't I?
MAX: That's right. They'll find the original of her snuff clip in your apartment. The one I left for you at the club was a copy.
LENNY: Was I a really busy guy? Did I do Tick too?
MAX: You bet. Did you like it?
LENNY: So why Max. why d'ya have to do Iris? She never hurt anybody.
MAX: Picture it. I feel like I gotta share this with somebody. It's too I won't say anything.
LENNY: I won't say anything.
MAX: I know. So, I'm working for this puke, right? And he says he'll pay me quite large to do the hooker. But also I gotta do his bitch girlfriend cause she knows the whole score and she's totally out of
MAX: Only he doesn't know about me and Faith. So I say to myself, if I turn the job down, he just gets somebody else. And I lose Faith. to coin a phrase. So to buy time, I do the skank. I still gotta do something about Tran. I figure it's him or me. but I can't cap him without a chump to take the fall. And who better than his girlfriend's loser ex-boyfriend. a known criminal. who has been seen hassling them in public numerous And who was, regrettably, also your best fucking friend.
LENNY: And who was, regrettably, also your best fucking friend.
MAX: No plan is perfect, Lenny. Hey, cheer up. World's gonna end in ten minutes anyway.
LENNY: You must be so pleased, I followed your jellybean trail right here, like a good little chump.
MAX: You got froggy on me a couple times.
LENNY: So there never was a death squad.
MAX: Just those two loose-cannon cops running around covering their butts.
LENNY: Just those two loose-cannon cops running around covering their butts.
MAX: Yeah. Pretty zany, huh? All this shit caused by a random traffic stop. Hey. nothing means nothing. You know that. Look around. the whole planet's in total chaos. You gotta take what you can, while you can. Cause some shitbird can come up and put a fuckin' .22 in the back a your head any second.
LENNY: How did you hook up with Faith?
MAX: This dink hires me a month ago to eyeball her, right? But Faith knows me from you, right, so she comes up to me and says, 'Hey Max why you following me?' I say, 'I'll buy you a drink and explain.' And she says.
FAITH: 'So, do you enjoy watching me?'
MAX: You were supposed to go downstairs, I know. I don't always do exactly what I'm told. So I said, 'Do you enjoy watching me?' And you said come on Max.
FAITH: I know. I don't always do exactly what I'm told. So I said, 'Do you enjoy watching me?' And you said come on Max.
MAX: I said, 'Yeah. I'd even do it for Uh huh. And I said, 'That's good, because I like the feeling of someone watching me. I acquired the taste from Lenny.' And then she said, 'Since we're going to be spending so much time 'We might as well make the best of Jesus, Faith.
FAITH: Uh huh. And I said, 'That's good, because I like the feeling of someone watching me. I acquired the taste from Lenny.' And then she said, 'Since we're going to be spending so much time 'We might as well make the best of Jesus, Faith.
MAX: ( to Lenny ) And then she said, 'Since we're going to be spending so much time 'We might as well make the best of ( crushed ) Jesus, Faith.
FAITH: 'We might as well make the best of Jesus, Faith.
LENNY: ( crushed ) Jesus, Faith.
FAITH: Lenny jumps in, wrestling Max for the gun. Faith pulls the Glock out of Max's waistband and throws it across the BLAM! BLAM! Max fires wildly, trying to hit Lenny, who is just barely keeping the muzzle out of his face. Faith grabs Max's hair, trying to pull him away. His "hair" comes off in her hands. A prosthetic wig, containing the squid-net array. Max's head is shaved to a Sinead O'Connor stubble. He looks demonic, grimacing with effort as he struggles with Lenny. He continues firing. The shots hit the mirrors. ANGLES of the reflected images of them shattering. Faith, screaming, reflected, her face fragmenting into shards. The crystal chandelier shatters, reigning glassy snow on them from above. Max is stronger and heavier than Lenny, but Lenny has one advantage: Max has managed to make him really angry. Lenny gives a guttural cry and drives Max backward into the doorframe. They tumble together into the living room, falling together over the couch. Lenny pounds Max's hand against the glass coffee table, shattering it. He forces Max's hand along a glass edge, cutting it, and Max drops the gun. Lenny reaches for it, but Max kicks it away a split-second before his hand touches it. It skitters under the couch, out of play. Max punches Lenny brutally in the face, then in the gut, and grabs him with both hands. He hurls him against the wall. Lenny staggers off the wall into several vicious punches from Max. We feel the tide turning. Lenny goes down to one knee. Max pulls out his knife and flicks it open. Lenny throws a lamp. Max ducks and charges through. Lenny spins away from the downthrust. The knife embeds itself in his shoulder blade, sunk into the bone. Lenny punches Max in the throat and jerks away, pulling the knife handle out of Max's hand. Max tackles him and they crash together through a sliding glass door onto the balcony. Explosion of flying glass. Max pulls a dazed Lenny to his feet and rushes him backward toward the railing. At the last instant, Lenny twists with all his strength and spins Max into the railing, using his weight against him. He pushes hard and Max topples. As he is going over, Max grabs Lenny's tie, pulling him over. Max is dangling 12 stories above the oblivious crowd, his entire weight hanging from Lenny's tie. Lenny has one arm and one foot hooked around the railing, and he is being strangled by the tie. Lenny is starting to black out. In agony he gropes with his free hand to his own shoulder blade, finding the handle of the knife. He jerks it out of himself. Max sees it coming a split second before it happens. Lenny slashes the knife across the tie, just above Max's Max takes the express elevator to Hell. He hits 12 stories down, on top of a video truck. Lenny stands there panting, bleeding down the back of his jacket. Faith runs to the railing and looks down. All the strength goes out of her legs. She sags to the floor. Fireworks continue to boom across the sky. Lenny looks down at her, gazing at the object of his quest. She looks up at him, her wet eyes seemingly at the bottom of a deep well from which he cannot save her. He turns and walks away. It's hard. But he keeps EXT. STREET - NIGHT DOWN BELOW, in the madness of the crowd, we move with Spreg as he searches for Mace. He sees her from behind, walking near one of the stages. He moves up behind her, aiming his pistol at the back of her head. She turns . it isn't Mace. Another girl in a similar dress. Spreg curses and looks around. Engelman catches a glimpse of Mace running. He points to her position and Spreg charges after her. He has his baton laid back along his forearm and is clubbing people out of the way as he runs. Mace sprints barefoot through the crowd, pushing people out of her way. Strobe-lights from the stage and flashes from the fireworks give the crowd a nightmarish look. Spreg fires at her. People drop, their screams drowned out by the pandemonium. The gunshots don't register above the concussions from the fireworks. No one notices the shootings. Spreg continues to fire, missing her as people block his shots. Mace won't fire back in the crowd. ON SPREG, coming to a stop at the base of a lighting tower. He has lost sight of her. He starts to reload his pistol. Mace comes up to him silently from behind the tower and hammer punches him behind the ear with the butt of her pistol. Spreg comes around with a roar, slamming the baton across her forearm. Her .380 clatters to the ground. Mace bodyslams him back against the steel tower, smashing her palm up under his chin. His head raps off the metal. Mace is like a she-panther. She rips the baton out of his hands and cracks him once across the windpipe. He drops to his knees, gagging and unable to breathe. A shot hits the metal space-frame next to her head. She spins to see Engelman, charging toward her. Before he can fire again she drops behind the kneeling, gasping Spreg, using him as a human wall. She clamps an arm around his neck, controlling him, and pulls his tazer from his belt. She shoots Engelman in the chest from 8 feet. He convulses and drops instantly to the pavement, flopping like a fish. She holds the current on him while she goes over and kicks his gun away. She takes Engelman's cuffs from his belt. Spreg glares at her through the blood running into his eyes. She raises the baton.
MAX: Fucking bitch!!
MACE: All the way down! RIGHT NOW!!
MACE: Wait. Let me tell you what's going on here
MACE: NO!! NO!!!
STRICKLAND: ( to the nearest These two are under arrest for
STRICKLAND: Get some medical attention for this
LENNY: Are you okay?
MACE: I got 'em, Lenny.
LENNY: Like a scene from a nightmare the blood-drenched Spreg, completely unhinged, lurches toward them. Engelman's body slides over the ground, leaving a snail-track of blood a foot wide.
SHOOT!: Like a scene from a nightmare the blood-drenched Spreg, completely unhinged, lurches toward them. Engelman's body slides over the ground, leaving a snail-track of blood a foot wide.
SPREG: YOU FUCKING NIGGER BITCH!!
LENNY: Yeah, what?
MACE: Are we under arrest?
LENNY: Naw. They just have to ask us a few questions. for about six
CROWD: TEN! NINE! EIGHT!.
CROWD: SEVEN! SIX! FIVE!.
CROWD: FOUR! THREE! TWO! ONE! HAPPY NEW
YEAR!: The exultation of the moment flows through them as the people lift their voices in a great cheer. Balloons are released, confetti and streamers fly in a blizzard. Couples grab each other and kiss passionately.
MACE: ( grinning ) Hey, Lenny. We made it.
LENNY: Yeah. We did.
MACE: ( she shrugs ) Get going. You're still bleeding.
LENNY: See you downtown.
MACE: Yeah. See you there.
THE END: Writers : James Cameron Jay Cocks
