SUGAR: Written by Anna Boden & Ryan Fleck
UMPIRE: Strike three!
MARCOS: Check out Sugar. Puts on twenty pounds in two months; now he's going for twenty more.
MIGUEL: ( mouth full of food ) All muscle, baby. Rock solid.
PEDRO: Slow down, kid, it ain't going nowhere. A few of the guys LAUGH.
MIGUEL: ( to Pedro ) If you hustled half as much as him, maybe you'd be hungry too.
SANCHEZ: Fly ball.
CLASS: Fly ball.
SANCHEZ: Line drive.
CLASS: Line drive.
SANCHEZ: Ground ball.
CLASS: Ground ball.
SANCHEZ: Home run!
CLASS: Hone rone! CLOSE ON Miguel, repeating the strange words.
RUDY: What'd you tell him?
ALVAREZ: I told him to grip the ball more gently. Like a tit. They both crack up. FROM THE TRYOUT MOUND. The kid looks over to the two men pow- wowing about him. He breathes in, nervous.
ALVAREZ: Pedro Berroa. Third year. Hasn't developed like we hoped.
RUDY: How much he sign for?
ALVAREZ: Jesus. These kids keep getting more expensive. How much did you sign for back in the day?
RUDY: Jesus. These kids keep getting more expensive. How much did you sign for back in the day?
ALVAREZ: 3000. When I was fifteen. Rudy smiles and moves on. Alvarez follows. Pedro watches the men as they walk away.
ALVAREZ: Salvador Torres. Been practicing with the team for almost a week. Still raw, but he's got a lot of potential.
RUDY: We gonna sign him?
ALVAREZ: Soon. Soon. We want to play it low- key, see what his agent says.
RUDY: How much you think?
ALVAREZ: They've gotten two offers from other clubs. Agent says they were around a Rudy raises his eyebrows.
ALVAREZ: ( firm ) He's good.
RUDY: What about him?
ALVAREZ: Miguel Santos. Great arm. We signed him two years ago for fifteen. Miguel fires in a pitch. Rudy nods, impressed.
RUDY: Good deal. He throw any junk?
ALVAREZ: ( in Spanish )
ALVAREZ: Show us your curve. Miguel nods, nervous, focuses. He pitches. The ball curves very subtly over the plate for a strike.
RUDY: Not bad. Mind if I try something?
RUDY: Hey, kid, do you mind? May I? Miguel stares blankly at Rudy, not understanding.
ALVAREZ: ( in Spanish ) Give him the ball.
RUDY: Spike curve. Gives you more rotation, more movement. You try. Miguel struggles to emulate Rudy's grip, so Rudy maneuvers his fingers into the correct position. Alvarez laughs.
ALVAREZ: Vamos! Let's go! Pitch it! Miguel looks over to his catcher, Jose. Winds up the next pitch, and soars it 5 feet wide of the mark. Rudy and Alvarez laugh. Miguel looks back over his shoulder.
RUDY: It's okay, son, these things take time. You'll figure it out. Rudy pats Miguel on the back and walks off with Alvarez. Miguel stares at them hard as they go. He turns back to his catcher, determined, squeezes the ball in spike curve formation. Misses badly again. JUMP CUTS take us through a half-dozen more bad curve attempts, as other players take notice and gather around, some laughing, until. .finally a perfect curve twists dramatically through the air, landing centered in Jose's mitt. The other players erupt in amazement, while Miguel stares straight ahead. After a beat, he smiles wide.
SANCHEZ: I want to talk to you.
CLASS: I want talk to you.
SANCHEZ: Your performance in the mound is not as good as last year. What is the Your performance in the mound is not good as last year. What is problem?
CLASS: Your performance in the mound is not good as last year. What is problem?
SANCHEZ: I don't know. Maybe my mechanic.
CLASS: I don't know. Maybe mechanic.
SANCHEZ: I want to give you a chance. It is up to you. CLOSE ON Miguel focused on the baseball in his hand. He practices his knuckle curve grip, not participating in the I want to give you a chance. Is up to Miguel walks down a dirt road with his duffel bag. He exits past the gate, waving goodbye to the SECURITY GUARD. Academy, Miguel passes through the overgrown, undeveloped land where neighborhood CHILDREN play among grazing goats. He continues down the dirt road towards a paved highway in the distance, as bachata music fuels the sound track, and carries over the following.
CLASS: I want to give you a chance. Is up to Miguel walks down a dirt road with his duffel bag. He exits past the gate, waving goodbye to the SECURITY GUARD. Academy, Miguel passes through the overgrown, undeveloped land where neighborhood CHILDREN play among grazing goats. He continues down the dirt road towards a paved highway in the distance, as bachata music fuels the sound track, and carries over the following.
MIGUEL: How are you, sis?
ERICA: Any news about the States?
MIGUEL: Is that all you have to say? Miguel helps Erica with the water bucket and walks with her towards their home - a small wooden construction with peeling paint and a rusted aluminum roof. On the lot next to their house, the cinder-block frame of their future home dwarfs the others on the block.
MIGUEL: Hello, Abuela. You're looking She smiles big at her oldest grandson, opens her arms for a hug. Erica sits at the kitchen table, where her schoolbooks lay open.
MIGUEL: What's up my people? How's the TV?
LUIS: Erica won't let me watch baseball.
ERICA: Not during American Idol, anyway. Miguel's mother, CARMEN ( late 30s ) emerges from behind a hanging bed sheet, which acts as a "wall" separating two rooms.
CARMEN: Buenas, Miguelito! Do you have any good news for your mother?
MIGUEL: As a matter of fact, yes.
CARMEN: You're going to the United States?!
MIGUEL: Not yet, ma. But I learned how to throw a knuckle curve.
CARMEN: A knuckle curve? What's that?
KIDS: Sugar, come out and play!
SOFIA: When will you finish this?
MIGUEL: Soon. It's just hard to find the time.
SOFIA: It's pretty.
MIGUEL: I'm trying to match the chairs my dad made, but I can't get it right.
SOFIA: Well, I think it's perfect.
MIGUEL: I'll make you another when I'm done. Sofia smiles, kisses Miguel on the cheek.
SOFIA: And the rest of the house? How long till it's done? Miguel hesitates.
MIGUEL: Um, another month, maybe two. You know we just did it where Abuela's room is going to be.
SOFIA: ( laughing ) Don't tell me that!
MIGUEL: Why not? We can do it in mom's kitchen next. Right over there.
SOFIA: ( getting serious ) I hope you make it to the States this You hope? C'mon, there's nobody better, baby.
MIGUEL: You hope? C'mon, there's nobody better, baby.
SOFIA: ( smiling big ) Okay, how about: I KNOW you'll make Now you're talkin'. And when I do, I'll buy a Cadillac, drive it through the ocean, and bring you back with me.
MIGUEL: Now you're talkin'. And when I do, I'll buy a Cadillac, drive it through the ocean, and bring you back with me.
SOFIA: You can't drive a Cadillac on water.
MIGUEL: Yes! In the States they make cars that drive on water.
SOFIA: You're crazy.
MIGUEL: You'll see who's crazy. Just watch.
SOFIA: I want to see the snow. Does it snow in Kansas City?
MIGUEL: I don't know. But I'll take you to New York City. Yankee Stadium. It snows there. You wanta see me play in Yankee It doesn't snow during baseball season, So we'll go for Christmas.
SOFIA: It doesn't snow during baseball season, So we'll go for Christmas.
MIGUEL: So we'll go for Christmas.
SOFIA: Next Christmas, we'll sail into Yankee Stadium in my Cadillac car-boat. Deal?
MIGUEL: Next Christmas, we'll sail into Yankee Stadium in my Cadillac car-boat. Deal?
SOFIA: You are crazy! They kiss.
JAVIER: ( mid-story ) I liked her, but she asked me to cut my hair. I thought about it. She was cute, but. I liked my hair more.
SOFIA: I liked it too, Javi.
MIGUEL: Then why'd you cut it last week?
JAVIER: I thought it was time for a new look.
MIGUEL: Or a new girl. Sofia punches Miguel in the arm.
MIGUEL: Watch it, baby, that's a million-dollar arm you're messing with.
JAVIER: He's right! All hail the golden arm. Javier and the girls drunkenly salute Miguel's arm, pretend to dust dirt away, but Jaime doesn't play along. He looks on, a little jealous.
JAIME: You call that flabby rubberband an arm?
JAVIER: This flabby rubberband can throw 95. What can yours do?
MIGUEL: This flabby rubberband can throw 95. What can yours do?
JAIME: I threw 98 in double-A Portland.
MIGUEL: 98? Then why you washing windshields now? I saw you try and bumrush Javy at the stoplight last week. Everyone cracks up laughing, including Jaime, as Miguel grabs Sofia, and leads her in a dance. His smile fading, Jaime looks out over the water. Miguel notices this. Hold.
HECKLER #1: You're supposed to aim for the head! Nearby, Miguel sits beside his old coach, FRANK ( early 40s ), watching the kids play. One of the local SHOE SHINE BOYS cleans Miguel's shoes with an old toothbrush as Frank cracks open a beer. Frank points out one of the kids on the field.
FRANK: I like this one. Good bat speed. Only twelve years old, out here four, five hours everyday. His mom tells me he's missing school. I say, yeah, but. have you seen his swing? They laugh.
FRANK: I'm showing his older brother to the Yankees on Monday. Miguel nods, a hint of disappointment in his eyes.
FRANK: ( seeing this ) They don't know what they missed with you. It's cool though. They'll be knocking on your door, offering millions when you turn into a superstar. You'll see.
MIGUEL: Have you been to New York?
FRANK: ( nodding ) Nothing like playing for a crowd of New Yorkers. They're even louder than What's the city like?
MIGUEL: What's the city like?
FRANK: It's great. But you need to get to Kansas City before you start thinking about New York. Know what I mean?
MIGUEL: You hear anything about spring training Frank sips his beer.
FRANK: Frank sips his beer.
MIGUEL: Frank shrugs, as Miguel's sister calls out from the street
ERICA: Miguel, Luis! Dinner is ready!
MIGUEL: You'd tell me if you knew.
FRANK: Miguel shakes his head, gets up.
MIGUEL: Wanna join us for dinner?
FRANK: Not tonight. But give your mom a kiss for me, okay? Miguel gives a coin to the boy who's been cleaning his shoes before heading off with his little brother. Frank sips his beer, calls out to the field
FRANK: C'mon, Nelson! Fire it in, baby!
REYES: A lot of you are thinking about your families right now. Your girlfriends, sisters and brothers, grandparents. You're feeling the pressure. But, I'm going to tell you something very important, gentlemen. forget it. You've got to think about yourselves. Put all your energy into your game, into your development as a player. Forget about everything else in your life. and just play ball. You wanna succeed, you gotta be like a racehorse, focused on your goal. It's up to you.
REYES: Next up, Miguel! Here we go! The ball is hit on the ground to first base, where the fielder quickly throws it over to second. Miguel charges over to first, stutter steps as he nears the base, and receives the throw just in time to beat the hitter and step out of the way. He exhales in relief.
REYES: Berroa, see Alvarez when you're Pedro nods. Miguel and Marcos exchange knowing glances.
MARCOS: So the Dominican's like, `Fuck, what am I gonna do?' He stays there, points up to the sky and says. `Look! There's a plane. Right THERE!' Everyone laughs hysterically, as. .the young rookie, Salvador, grabs a seat next to Miguel at an adjoining table.
SALVADOR: Hey, Sugar! They made me an offer. Miguel smiles, but hesitates for a beat as Pedro walks past them and over to an empty table in the corner of the room. Miguel turns back to Salvador, pats him on the head.
MIGUEL: Good for you. Congratulations. How much they offer you?
SALVADOR: ( with a big smile )
MIGUEL: Oh, you know, more or less the same. Did you get any other offers?
SALVADOR: Yankees and Seattle, but not as much.
MIGUEL: Just don't get cocky. No one likes a dickhead. Welcome to the team. Salvador smiles.
SALVADOR: So, why do they call you Sugar?
MIGUEL: Well it's like this. it started cause I'm sweet with the ladies. But mostly it's cause I got the sweetest knuckle curve in the whole Republic.
ALFONSO: ( interjecting ) Bullshit! You just learned that shit on Friday! It's cause he eats so much junk food!
MIGUEL: ( playing it cool ) He's just jealous.
MIGUEL: We got you a going away present. Miguel unzips his windbreaker to reveal a bottle of Brugal rum hidden underneath. The other guys smile mischievously.
MARCOS: You should try Los Campos. I heard the Dodgers could use a new first baseman.
PEDRO: Fuck that. The coaches are even tougher over there. I'm done, man.
MIGUEL: ( snatching Pedro's cap ) No caps indoors, son!
ALFONSO: Cut the meat with your knife; eat the meat with your fork. NEVER eat the meat with your knife.
MARCOS: Or you'll chop off your tongue.
MIGUEL: Ten p.m. lights out!
PEDRO: ( in broken English ) "Tay me outta the ball game, tay me outta the crowd."
REYES: Santos, what the hell's wrong with you?
MIGUEL: I think I have the flu, coach. I can't pitch today. Reyes glances over to Marcos and Alfonso standing nearby. They lower their heads in embarrassment like two kids busted by dad.
REYES: You've got five minutes to get out on that mound, Santos. Reyes marches off.
REYES: Feel better now? Let's go! Miguel tries to shake off the cobwebs, steps on the rubber, stares down the next hitter. CLOSE on his hand revealing the knuckle curve grip. He tosses in the next pitch, which arcs into Jose's glove for a.
UMPIRE: Reyes' smile fades, stunned by the beautiful curve. A SERIES OF JUMPCUTS take us through the next three batters, as Miguel makes quick work of them, mixing up his nasty curve with a blazing fastball. After the third out, Miguel walks back to the dugout. He takes a seat on the bench, smiles smugly.
REYES: Wipe that smile off your face. And he does.
ALVAREZ: I am very disappointed. Just when I was starting to like you guys, you go and do something stupid. What do you have to say for yourselves?
MARCOS: But Alfonso was there too
ALVAREZ: No excuses. This is unacceptable behavior. You guys need to learn Miguel and Marcos lower their heads.
REYES: You need to remember that you still have a long way to go, a lot of hard work ahead of you before you make it. First, there's getting your shot in the American Minor Leagues: rookie ball, single, double, triple A - all that before you even set foot in a major league ballpark. So, you better pull it together quick.
ALVAREZ: Because nobody's gonna take this shit from a couple Dominican rookies when you go to the U.S. for Spring Training this season. They glance up, eyes wide. Did he just say.
REYES: You've been invited to Spring Training. Everyone smiles ( even Alvarez ).
FLOOR MANAGER: Phone call. He said it's important.
CARMEN: Hold on her reaction shifting from that of concern to elation. She struggles to contain her joy.
ERICA: Don't forget to call everyday. I want to know everything!
MIGUEL: You know what I mean, dummy.
ERICA: You know what I mean, dummy.
MIGUEL: Of course I'll be calling to keep you in check, make sure your grades don't Look who's talking. Carmen interrupts, drapes her arms around Miguel, kissing him repeatedly. As Erica looks on, we get the sense that she's used to being on the outside of this kind of attention.
ERICA: Look who's talking. Carmen interrupts, drapes her arms around Miguel, kissing him repeatedly. As Erica looks on, we get the sense that she's used to being on the outside of this kind of attention.
CARMEN: You are my hero! Carmen pulls Miguel close, takes something from her pocket, puts it in his hand.
CARMEN: It was your father's. I want you to take it with you. Miguel looks at the cross, kisses his mother on the cheek. As he looks up, he notices Erica slip away.
CARMEN: You've been given a wonderful gift, Miguelito. And God willing, you will continue to do great things with it. I love you so much. She kisses him on the forehead. A SERIES OF JUMPCUTS present a variety of family and friends introducing themselves to Miguel.
UNCLE ANGEL: Miguelito! You gonna remember your uncle Angel when you're all big and famous? Don't forget your family, kid. Never forget where you came from.
COUSIN LUPE: Lupe! Cousin Lupe! Remember that time we went skinny-dipping at the Malec칩n?
MIGUEL: JUMP CUT TO:
COUSING FELIPE: You were eight years old! Hated the goats so much. You would cry and cry and cry and cry. What a baby you were. Do you remember?
MIGUEL: What's your name?
AUNT LOLA: Lola! Your aunt Lola!
UNCLE JEFFE: Uncle Jeffe!
NEIGHBOR ANA: Your neighbor Ana. I grew up around the corner from here. Ana lays a juicy kiss on Miguel. He smiles.
FRANK: Don't give me any shit, kid. I taught you everything you know. Miguel gives Frank a big hug.
FRANK: I'm damn proud of you, kid. Your father would be, too.
MIGUEL: Thanks. I owe it all to you.
FRANK: Not all. Just forty percent. Miguel smiles, as Frank leans close.
FRANK: I spent the best years of my life playing in the States. Life gives you a lot of opportunities, but baseball only gives you one. Enjoy every minute of it. Miguel nods.
FRANK: How's your new curve?
MIGUEL: It's pretty sweet.
FRANK: Good. Here.
MIGUEL: What's this for?
FRANK: Your autograph. Miguel seems puzzled, but searches for something to write on.
FRANK: I'm kidding, you arrogant prick. It's so you can write your family. and me, too. if you feel like it. Miguel gives Frank another hug.
MIGUEL: Where's your boyfriend?
ERICA: Which one?
MIGUEL: I don't know; the ugly one.
ERICA: Okay, where's Hector?
MIGUEL: Okay, where's Hector?
ERICA: ( shrugs, then ) Some other party.
MIGUEL: So what about the good-looking one?
ERICA: Mmm, Fernando. I think he's out there dancing with Sofia. Miguel's eyes get big for a second, until Erica smiles. He's been had. He smiles back. A beat.
MIGUEL: I'm proud of you, sis. You're going to do great things too. We all know it.
ERICA: I'm gonna miss you. She kisses Miguel on the cheek.
ERICA: C'mon, let's dance.
MIGUEL: Go on, I'll be out in a minute. And tell Fernando to keep his dirty hands off my girl. Through cracks in the tarp, Miguel watches Erica join the dance party in the street. Savoring this rare moment alone, he breathes deep, blows wood dust off the table leg, and continues sanding. Hold.
ANTONIO: Check this out. Antonio opens their mini bar, tosses Miguel and Marcos beers. They all toast.
MARCOS: To America! They all smile and toast again.
JORGE: What's up fellas!?
MARCOS: They hug. Jorge enters, notices the beers and porn. He shakes his head.
JORGE: Never, never, never, drink from the hotel mini bar. That shit is expensive. You want beer, buy it at the store. You wanta see titties? They got magazines for that. Don't pay in the hotel. A WAITRESS approaches.
WAITRESS: You boys ready?
JORGE: The greatest thing about the States? You can order breakfast 24/7. French toast is the best. It's nothing like Dominican toast. French toast please. The players stare at Jorge, a little intimidated.
WAITRESS: Who's next? After a beat, the players respond in unison.
JORGE: Brad Johnson. He just signed for a million dollars out of college. Miguel and Marcos watch Brad with fascination, searching for some sort of physical representation of his wealth.
JORGE: There's a lot of guys like that. But you can't let that intimidate you. Everyone knows Dominicans rule the Two Venezuelan players, ORLANDO MATO ( 23, catcher ) and ED POVEDA ( 22, center field ) step up.
ORLANDO: What's this about Dominicans ruling the No, he must've said Venezuelans. Jorge stands up, exchanges hugs with Orlando and Ed as they continue their debate over which Latin country has the best Sammy, Manny, Pedro.
ED: No, he must've said Venezuelans. Jorge stands up, exchanges hugs with Orlando and Ed as they continue their debate over which Latin country has the best Sammy, Manny, Pedro.
JORGE: Sammy, Manny, Pedro.
ED: Santana, Zambrano, the Guillens!
JORGE: Are you guys all from the same family?
ORLANDO: Look who's talking. Are these your What, all Dominicans look the same, They all smile, stop razzing each other momentarily to meet the new players.
JORGE: What, all Dominicans look the same, They all smile, stop razzing each other momentarily to meet the new players.
JORGE: This is Miguel and Marcos. Up from Boca Chica.
ORLANDO: But you couldn't hang in Wichita.
JORGE: I injured my knee, asshole. But I'm healthy now. You'll see.
ORLANDO: Fifty bucks you're back in Iowa next Fifty bucks you're still an asshole next month. They all LAUGH.
JORGE: Fifty bucks you're still an asshole next month. They all LAUGH.
STU: You've gotta show us your best game here. Remember that, until you reach the top, there's always guys above you, hustling to keep you here. And guys below you pushing to take your job. We have 75 pitchers in this camp competing for less than 50 positions come April 3rd. So you gotta work hard. While all the players respectfully listen to Stu, it is clear that very few of the Latino players can understand him.
STU: Bring over Leonard. The other Coach calls over to the adjoining field.
COACH: Bring over Leonard!
STU: Welcome to America, kid.
ANTONIO: I have to admit. I'm getting a little sick of the french toast. The others nod in agreement, but continue eating.
MIGUEL: I pitched against Rob Leonard today.
SOFIA: No shit! You strike him out?
MIGUEL: You don't believe me?
SOFIA: You don't believe me?
MIGUEL: You don't believe me?
SOFIA: Well, I got one strike at least. Sofia laughs.
MIGUEL: Well, I got one strike at least. Sofia laughs.
SOFIA: So, do you like it there?
MIGUEL: Mmmm. It's different.
SOFIA: Different how?
MIGUEL: I don't know. Just different. Like the food is really sweet.
SOFIA: I thought you liked sweet things. Miguel smiles.
MIGUEL: All the players are really good.
SOFIA: But not like you.
MIGUEL: No, not like me. Of course not. But they're pretty good. Another beat. Sofia looks down at her bare feet, scrunches her I miss you.
SOFIA: I miss you.
MIGUEL: I miss you, too.
MARCOS: ( annoyed ) Turn it off.
STU: Just relax. Know your pitches. And take it easy. Ground ball. Okay?
ORLANDO: ( in Spanish ) Just relax. Ground ball.
UMPIRE: Stu exchanges impressed glances with another COACH. Miguel sends in the next one, and. .the HITTER checks his swing, but goes too far.
UMPIRE: IN THE DUGOUT Marcos gets to his feet, clapping for Miguel nods to Orlando, delivers again. CRACK! The ball is smoked toward Brad Johnson at second base. He leaps out, body fully extended, and makes a fantastic catch. But he's not done yet. The runner at second is too far off the bag, so Brad hops to his feet, and fires a laser beam to second, finishing off one of the sweetest double-plays you'll ever see. Miguel pumps his fist into the air, and the team runs to.
MIGUEL: Where did you learn English so good?
ORLANDO: Back home in Caracas.
MIGUEL: Like in high school, or something?
ORLANDO: Yeah, but it's still hard though. People talk fast.
MARCOS: C'mon. Let's grab some dinner.
MIGUEL: Nah, I'm gonna stay and work out a little. I'll catch up later.
MIGUEL: ( struggling in English ) Good catch.
BRAD: Thanks. I got lucky.
WAITRESS: French toast, right?
MIGUEL: No. Egg. Egg, please.
WAITRESS: Eggs. No problem. How would you Miguel stares at her.
MIGUEL: Um, okay, uh. Scrambled? Over easy? Sunny side up? A beat. He didn't count on this part. He thinks hard, pressure mounting.
WAITRESS: Um, okay, uh. Scrambled? Over easy? Sunny side up? A beat. He didn't count on this part. He thinks hard, pressure mounting.
MIGUEL: ( giving up, embarrassed ) French toast.
WAITRESS: No eggs? You sure?
MIGUEL: French toast.
WAITRESS: ( disappointed ) Alright, honey. French toast it is.
WAITRESS: Okay. This is scrambled. Scrambled.
MIGUEL: Official Shooting Script as of 10/22/07 38.
WAITRESS: ( pointing on plate ) Over easy.
MIGUEL: Over easy.
WAITRESS: ( and finally ) This one's tricky. Sunny-side-up. Sunny side up. On the house.
MIGUEL: Sunny side up. On the house.
WAITRESS: Sunny side up. On the house.
MIGUEL: Sunny side up. On the house.
WAITRESS: Sunny side up. On the house.
MIGUEL: Sunny side up. On the house.
WAITRESS: Sunny side up. On the house.
MIGUEL: Thank you.
WAITRESS: ( smiling proud ) You're welcome.
MARCOS: They're sending Antonio back.
MIGUEL: Shit. What about you guys?
JULIO: We're staying here. Rookie ball.
MARCOS: Go take a look.
MIGUEL: I'm not with you guys?
MARCOS: Straight to Single A, bro. With Jorge. Where is Iowa?
MIGUEL: Where is Iowa?
MIGUEL: Can't I stay with you guys?
JORGE: Don't worry, Sugar. The Higgins are good people. I stayed with them last time I played here.
MIGUEL: Then why don't you stay with them They have a no girls policy.
JORGE: They have a no girls policy.
HELEN: Jorge! Good to see you back in Jorge hugs Helen, shakes hands with Earl.
JORGE: Thank you. This is Miguel. Orlando whistles to Jorge from a taxi.
JORGE: I go now. Take care of my friend. Jorge waves goodbye to the Higgins, pats Miguel on the back, and hops in a cab with Orlando and Ed. Awkward beat, as Miguel, Earl, and Helen stand in silence.
HELEN: We've had Dominicans, Venezuelan boys, a Colombian, one from Panama, blacks and some Americans. Mostly Spanish boys, though. Johan Santana, Mendy Lopez and Ramon Martinez all stayed with us. Years ago.
EARL: Last year we had this boy, Junior Sanchez. Nice boy. Decent with the glove, but couldn't bunt to save his Two-for-twelve in sacrifice situations.
HELEN: Two-for-twelve in sacrifice situations.
EARL: Cost the team at least two victories.
HELEN: Oh, that's being generous! I'd say four or five.
HELEN: Put your things down. I'll show you This is the kitchen. Help yourself to whatever you'd like. You can make a list of special foods you like to eat and put it here. Helen points to a grocery list tucked under a broccoli magnet.
HELEN: This is the kitchen. Help yourself to whatever you'd like. You can make a list of special foods you like to eat and put it here. Helen points to a grocery list tucked under a broccoli magnet.
HELEN: Oh, and over here, this drawer is a little funny. She pulls open the silverware drawer.
HELEN: You have to be careful or. She pulls it a little too far and it falls off its rail. Miguel This is the washer and the dryer. For your clothes. You put the soap in this one. Sopa. Miguel looks at her, confused. Did she just say "soup"?
HELEN: This is the washer and the dryer. For your clothes. You put the soap in this one. Sopa. Miguel looks at her, confused. Did she just say "soup"?
HELEN: Your room is up here.
HELEN: ( in bad Spanish ) El banyo.
HELEN: Your new cuarto. Bedroom. Do with it as you please. Just no girls. Chicas? No chicas. Miguel smiles, understanding.
EARL: No drinking. No cervezas in the casa. No chicas in the bedroom.
HELEN: I already told him that one.
EARL: Okay. What about quiet time?
HELEN: Right. There's no real curfew, but you must be quiet after ten.
EARL: ( holding index finger to Shhhh. after diez.
MIGUEL: Ten. Okay.
HELEN: Si! That's all we ask. It's our job to keep you healthy and focused on And we take pride in that. Miguel smiles.
EARL: And we take pride in that. Miguel smiles.
MIGUEL: Thank you. She nods, looks out over the landscape, and for the first time we see. .an EXTREME WIDE SHOT of the Higgins house, which seems to be situated in the middle of nowhere. The low sun casts a dreamy Days of Heaven glow over the image. A tiny Helen Higgins returns inside the house, while Miguel continues to sway on the porch swing, alone. Hold.
CARMEN: Everyone is so proud, Miguelito. It's all we can talk about.
MIGUEL: Did you get the money?
CARMEN: Of course.
MIGUEL: Good. And Victor? Can he start construction on the house again? I'll be sending money every two weeks now.
CARMEN: We just paid him. He's coming next What about you? You get something for yourself like I said?
MIGUEL: What about you? You get something for yourself like I said?
CARMEN: Me? What do I need?
MIGUEL: C'mon, mom.
CARMEN: You didn't get anything?
MIGUEL: You didn't get anything?
CARMEN: Well, maybe I got some new shoes, but I'm not telling. Erica strolls by, yells into phone.
ERICA: Three pairs, Miguel! But who's Miguel laughs on his end.
MIGUEL: Good for you, mom.
MIGUEL: I have to go, mom. The lady is calling me. Smells like dinner.
CARMEN: Dinner? Don't forget who your real mother is, Miguelito. Are you going to prefer her cooking to mine now?
MIGUEL: Impossible. I love you, mom.
CARMEN: Everyone loves and misses you. Strike one out for me, okay?
HELEN: Dear Lord. Thank you for the meal we are about to eat. And for blessing us with our new guest. And guiding him safely on his journey from the Dominican Republic to Bridgetown.
HELEN: .And finally, Lord. Please look kindly over the Swing this season. May all the players stay healthy and. well, why not?. if there's anything you can do to help us win another championship, we'll take that too. The table laughs, followed by a chorus of Amens. Miguel opens his eyes, greeted with smiles. He smiles too, as everyone passes dishes around the table.
MICHAEL: So, Miguel. Do - you - eat - meatloaf - back home?
HELEN: I already told you, Michael, he doesn't speak any English.
MICHAEL: I know but. I'm curious to know what he thinks of the meatloaf.
EARL: What do you care? You didn't cook it.
HILARY: ( to Michael ) I doubt they have meatloaf in the Dominican Republic, dear.
ANNE: I bet they have something similar. They probably just have another name for it. All eyes are on Miguel as he nervously takes a bite. A suspenseful beat, until. .he smiles and nods. Everyone sighs, smiles, and nods back.
MICHAEL: This is good old-fashioned American home cooking, Miguel. Welcome to I like. Thank you.
MIGUEL: I like. Thank you.
EARL: Well, very good, Miguel. De nada to you, mi amigo. De nada to you. Anne smiles at Miguel, a little embarrassed by her grandpa. Miguel smiles back, then gets back to his meatloaf.
CLUBBY: If you guys ever need tickets for family or friends, just let me know two days ahead of time. Thursday's opener is already sold out, but I saved one row, so you need to speak up now. Miguel enters the room, looking for his locker. The Clubby takes notice.
CLUBBY: Santos - you're over there. Clubby points Miguel in the right direction, where he finds his locker and several pressed jerseys waiting for him. Miguel takes his practice jersey, sits down in front of the locker, Que pasa, hermano? Brad pats Miguel on the back. Miguel is excited to see a familiar face.
MIGUEL: ( in bad English ) What up, Flaco?
BRAD: Dude, I was totally psyched when I saw your name on the squad. Good times.
MIGUEL: Yeah, okay. Brad finds his locker, and they both suit up.
JORGE: C'mon, bro, let's find you a suit.
MIGUEL: I can't afford a suit.
JORGE: I didn't say buy a suit. I said find a suit. So when you make it big, you'll already know what looks good.
JORGE: Hot damn! That's what's up!
MIGUEL: You like it?
JORGE: I love it! You look like an all-star, Miguel admires himself in the mirror.
JORGE: ( in a fake announcer "Starting pitcher for American League. from Kansas City. Miguel. 'Sugar'. Santos."
MIGUEL: What about you, man? You try one. Jorge shrugs, smiles.
JORGE: Me? Nah. I'm all washed up.
MIGUEL: Jorge gets distracted by a pack of TEENAGE GIRLS cruising by. They smile at the players, who smile back.
MIGUEL: Very nice.
JORGE: Dude. You have no idea. Just wait till we go to Big Muddy's.
MIGUEL: Big Muddy's? Jorge reaches into his wallet, removes his ID, hands it to You gotta be 21 to drink there. This is my old license. They won't know the Miguel looks at Jorge's ID photo, cracks up.
JORGE: You gotta be 21 to drink there. This is my old license. They won't know the Miguel looks at Jorge's ID photo, cracks up.
MIGUEL: Are you kidding me? Nobody's gonna believe I'm this ugly fool.
JORGE: Believe me; they won't know the Miguel and Jorge each carry a shopping bag for Helen. Miguel also carries a plastic bag of his own. All three of them are licking ice cream cones.
JACK JEFFERIES: Hey there, Swing fans, welcome to another exciting season of Swing baseball. As always we've got some new faces who we'll get to know this year like Brad Johnson, the highly touted 2nd baseman out of Stanford. He'll make his professional debut tonight. Great night for Swing baseball. And also a great night to grab a bite and a brew at Harlow's after the game - your local pub and proud sponsor.
MIGUEL: You think they know how to salsa?
JORGE: ( smiling ) Go for it, bro. But remember, just cause they dance with you, doesn't mean they want anything else.
ORLANDO: Not from you, anyway. Miguel notices Brad stroll by, calls him over.
MIGUEL: Yo flaco!
BRAD: What's up fellas? Good game. They all toast beers.
BRAD: What's with the flaco? I mean. You call this flaco? Everyone laughs, as Jorge eyes TWO WOMEN on the dance floor.
JORGE: You ready?
MIGUEL: Let's do it.
JACKASS: ( barely audible ) Careful, Paco. This ain't the jungle.
ANNE: How'd you like the service? Our church? Hope it wasn't too boring for you. Did you go to church in the Dominican Republic? He shakes his head.
MIGUEL: I am sorry. I do not understand.
ANNE: S'okay. You understand more than a lot of folks around here I bet. He nods, still unsure.
ANNE: So listen, me and some friends are hanging out later. You should stop by my house after the game. It's gonna be super chill. Grandma can take you there, but here. She stops a random CHURCHGOER.
ANNE: Can I borrow a pen real quick? The churchgoer hands over a pen, and Anne writes her address on Miguel's forearm.
ANNE: After the game. My house. Good luck, tonight. Anne runs off. Miguel looks after her, mystified.
JACK JEFFERIES: Santos, apparently feeling the butterflies on his first professional outing. Hailing all the way from the Dominican Republic, Santos wowed the club with his power during Spring Training. But he's off to a rocky start tonight.
JORGE: Relax, Sugar. It's the same game we played back home. That's all it is. Just a game, man. So relax. Let's have some fun. Okay? Miguel nods. Jorge points out the next batter. Another See? Just like home. Jorge runs back to his position at third. Miguel tucks his index finger into his knuckle curve grip. Delivers.
JORGE: See? Just like home. Jorge runs back to his position at third. Miguel tucks his index finger into his knuckle curve grip. Delivers.
UMPIRE: Official Shooting Script as of 10/22/07 55.
JORGE: That's it! There it is!
JACK JEFFERIES: Nearly unhittable for the first 6 innings, that was only the second hit allowed by Santos tonight.
STU: Good game, kid. Enjoy this.
ORLANDO: ( in Spanish ) Nice work, Sugar.
MIGUEL: ( in Spanish, to Orlando ) But that wasn't my fault. I can go ( in Spanish ) Take it easy; it's your first game.
ORLANDO: ( in Spanish ) Take it easy; it's your first game.
STU: You hear that? It's for you, kid. Orlando smiles, pats Miguel on the butt, and Miguel finally starts his slow walk off the field. As we follow him off, the FANS rise to their feet and Miguel approaches the dugout to a standing ovation. On his way in, he's greeted by his teammates with congratulatory high-fives. AT THIRD Jorge stares at the dirt, frustrated by his misplay.
ANNE: Hey Miguel. C'mon inside. He hands her the ball like it's a rose.
MIGUEL: ( in rehearsed English ) My first. strike-out.
ANNE: Oh, Miguel. you're so sweet. Congratulations, I heard you pitched
ANNE: Hey everybody, this is Miguel. He's from the Dominican Republic, and now he pitches for the Swing. Everyone manages to say "Hi Miguel" at the same time.
RANDY: What's up, man?
TRAVIS: Wanna play?
MIGUEL: No. Thank you.
TRAVIS: It's like soccer. You play soccer?
MIGUEL: Soccer? No. Baseball.
TRAVIS: Well this is called fooze-ball. Fooze- Yeah, you got it. Miguel looks for Anne, sees her going over some papers with another kid. She sees Miguel, waves, then gets back to her I used to be a pitcher. In little league. I wasn't very good though. Miguel nods, and another girl, WENDY, chimes in.
MIGUEL: Yeah, you got it. Miguel looks for Anne, sees her going over some papers with another kid. She sees Miguel, waves, then gets back to her I used to be a pitcher. In little league. I wasn't very good though. Miguel nods, and another girl, WENDY, chimes in.
TRAVIS: Yeah, you got it. Miguel looks for Anne, sees her going over some papers with another kid. She sees Miguel, waves, then gets back to her I used to be a pitcher. In little league. I wasn't very good though. Miguel nods, and another girl, WENDY, chimes in.
RANDY: I used to be a pitcher. In little league. I wasn't very good though. Miguel nods, and another girl, WENDY, chimes in.
WENDY: I heard that the beaches in the Dominican Republic are really Miguel nods again. They stand in silence for an awkward beat, sipping from their red, plastic cups, until.
ANNE: Hey guys, let's get started. Everyone grab a seat. The teens crowd into the living room, squeezing together on sofas, recliners, and desk chairs. Miguel sits behind the majority of the group, not sure what's going on. Anne stands before them.
ANNE: I'm so glad you all came. Last year, we didn't have half as many people in our group. So, I think this just goes to show the great work we've been doing in spreading the word. But this year, I want us to work harder. Now, I know a lot of you are studying for SATs or working on college applications. And all of that is important, but we need to remember that our spiritual accomplishments are more important. What we do in school or for a job. that's just a small part of who we are. We're only here by the grace of God, so let's get out there and share that Miguel watches, still unsure what's going on.
THE GROUP: ( singing ) One there is above all others, Oh, how He loves! His is love beyond a brother's, Oh, how He loves! Earthly friends may fail or leave us, One day soothe, the next day grieve us; But this Friend will ne'er deceive us: Oh, how He loves!
MIGUEL: Mama침ema. Very bad. Very bad word.
BRAD: Mama-침ema? What's it mean?
MIGUEL: Mmm. Like Miguel mimes fellatio.
BRAD: Yeah, we say cocksucker.
MIGUEL: Yeah, we say cocksucker.
BRAD: Yeah, we say cocksucker.
MIGUEL: Okay, cocksucker.
BRAD: They laugh.
BRAD: ( in bad Spanish ) Who is your favorite player?
MIGUEL: ( in bad English ) Robinson Cano for the Yankees. I know him brother. And you?
BRAD: Roberto Clemente.
MIGUEL: Who is that?
BRAD: What? You don't know about Clemente?
MIGUEL: Is Dominican?
BRAD: Puerto Rican. I can't believe it. This is tragic. Do you know who Babe Ruth Baby Ruth? El chocolate? Brad stares at Miguel for a beat, and they both crack up.
MIGUEL: Baby Ruth? El chocolate? Brad stares at Miguel for a beat, and they both crack up.
BRAD: Hey, how'd it go with that girl the other night?
MIGUEL: Yeah, didn't you have a date, or Oh, she no es my girl. Brad senses Miguel's disappointment in the matter.
BRAD: Yeah, didn't you have a date, or Oh, she no es my girl. Brad senses Miguel's disappointment in the matter.
MIGUEL: Oh, she no es my girl. Brad senses Miguel's disappointment in the matter.
BRAD: No sweat, bro. We'll find you a little honey on the road. Miguel smiles. Brad picks up his mp3 player, searches the menu for something.
BRAD: You like The White Stripes?
MIGUEL: I don't know.
BRAD: Check it out. Miguel grabs his portable CD player, hands it to Brad, trading music with him. As Miguel places Brad's Bose headphones over his ears, The White Stripes' "Seven Nation Army" infuses the soundtrack and leads us through the following.
BRAD: "Santos stings Owls with 8 Ks." What kind of shoddy journalism is this? There's nothing' about me in here. Miguel smiles, takes the paper, examines it. with his mom back home. stretches out his pitching arm. coach's office. listen as a chaplain gives a sermon in Spanish.
JACK JEFFERIES: At what point in the game did you realize you had your best stuff?
ORLANDO: ( doing his best ) When did you know you were going to be a good pitcher in this game?
MIGUEL: I knew from the time I was very young I would be a good pitcher. Ten, eleven years old. Thanks to God, I have had the opportunity to develop my talents.
ORLANDO: ( translating in English ) He knew very early that he was going to pitch good. Eleven years.
JORGE: It's not good. Because I haven't been playing good. No. I'm working hard, but, I don't know. I think they Listen, I can't talk now. Miguel gets the hint, steps out of his room into the.
BRAD: Did you ever see "Y Tu Mama Tambien"?
MIGUEL: Y tu mama what?
BRAD: Y Tu Mama Tambien. It's Mexican. Jorge laughs, shakes his head.
MIGUEL: No, I don't know this.
BRAD: What are your favorite movies?
JORGE: Official Shooting Script as of 10/22/07 64.
MIGUEL: I like Matrisse.
JORGE: Oh, Matrisse. Very strong.
BRAD: Matrisse? What's that?
MIGUEL: He doesn't know Matrisse?
JORGE: You don't know The Matrisse?
BRAD: The Mattress? I don't know. Dude, do you know a movie called The The Mattress?
JEFF: The Mattress?
JORGE: With Keanu.?
JEFF: Keanu Reeves?
BRAD: Oh, shit! The MATRIX!!
MIGUEL: Yeah, yeah, the Matrix is badass. I was like, Mattress? What?
BRAD: Yeah, yeah, the Matrix is badass. I was like, Mattress? What?
OUCH!: .the RUNNER storms into Miguel before he has time to pull his foot off the bag, knocking them both hard to the ground. The runner is called out, but Miguel is slow getting to his feet. Stu and the TRAINER run out to check on him. Jorge rushes over from third, and Orlando also comes to help translate.
STU: Nice play, kid. How's your foot?
JORGE: You okay? Miguel nods, but he's limping back to the mound.
STU: Take it easy. Don't force it. How's it feel?
ORLANDO: ( translating ) Don't push it. Does it hurt?
MIGUEL: I'm okay.
STU: Let him toss a few warm-ups. The umpire grants Miguel a few "test" pitches. Visibly shaken, Miguel sets up for a warm-up pitch, breathes deeply, and delivers. He lands gingerly on his right ankle, makes a face. Stu and the trainer exchange glances. Miguel notices this, as he sets up for another pitch. The trainer shakes his head, no.
STU: All right, kid. Give it a rest. As Stu reaches for the ball, Miguel pulls it away.
MIGUEL: I am okay. Please. Stu and the trainer sense Miguel's anxiety. Stu puts his arm on Miguel's shoulder for comfort.
STU: You're okay, I know, but let's just be sure. Give me the ball, son. Miguel sizes them up, reluctantly hands the ball over, and limps off the field with Stu and the other players looking after.
HELEN: You've been pitching so well. it's a real shame.
EARL: Don't worry, Miguel, you'll bounce right back. Miguel pokes at his food, avoids eye contact.
HILARY: Where'd you say you were from, Brad?
BRAD: Oh, different world out there, huh? You like to surf? Brad smiles.
MICHAEL: Oh, different world out there, huh? You like to surf? Brad smiles.
BRAD: Uh, no, I've never tried it. But maybe Your parents visit here?
JORGE: Your parents visit here?
BRAD: Yeah, I hope so. Maybe when they get some time off this summer.
ANNE: How about you, Miguel? What's your family like?
MIGUEL: My family?
ANNE: Yeah. Like, who do you live with back I live with my mother, sister, brother. and Abuela? Miguel looks to Jorge for help.
MIGUEL: I live with my mother, sister, brother. and Abuela? Miguel looks to Jorge for help.
JORGE: And grandmother.
MIGUEL: And grandmother.
MICHAEL: How about your father, Miguel?
MIGUEL: My father, uh. He die. Anne nudges her dad under the table.
HELEN: Oh, Miguel, honey. I'm so sorry. Miguel nods, takes a bite of potatoes. There is an awkward beat as everybody chews. Miguel musters all his language skills to break the awkward You have other child.?
MIGUEL: ( to Michael and Hilary ) You have other child.?
HILARY: Yes, we have a son. Anne's older
ANNE: He's in Iraq. Brad pauses from chewing, looks around, and nods. More awkward silence. Hold.
ANNE: You like it here in Iowa?
MIGUEL: Yes. I like. Many new things. Very different.
ANNE: I bet. You've traveled a long way, huh? God must have something special in mind for you. Anne points out a small scar on Miguel's scalp.
ANNE: What happened there?
MIGUEL: ( struggling ) Uh. When I boy. Um. I don't know
ANNE: Tell me in Spanish.
MIGUEL: ( in Spanish, no subtitles ) Okay. When I was little, I wanted to eat some cherries from a tree. It wasn't our tree, and there was a fence to keep us kids away.
MIGUEL: So I climbed up the fence to knock down some cherries with a stick, but I when I took my first swing whoosh. I fell. There was a lot of blood. Anne reaches out, lightly touches his scar. Her hand lingers for a beat, until.
ANNE: Sorry, I just. Sorry. Miguel looks on, confused, as she stands. They lock eyes for an awkward beat.
ANNE: I should help clean up. On her way back inside.
ANNE: We have another meeting Thursday. If you can come. Miguel nods. Anne leaves him on the porch alone. He looks out over the corn fields.
JORGE: I had a good run.
MIGUEL: What happened?
JORGE: It's over.
MIGUEL: You know the drill. I'm not playing well, so they'll bring up somebody who What about your knee? You just need some more time. You're recovering.
JORGE: You know the drill. I'm not playing well, so they'll bring up somebody who What about your knee? You just need some more time. You're recovering.
MIGUEL: What about your knee? You just need some more time. You're recovering.
JORGE: Miguel relents.
MIGUEL: When do you leave?
JORGE: They want me to fly back tonight.
MIGUEL: But I'm not going back. A beat as Miguel lets this sink in.
JORGE: But I'm not going back. A beat as Miguel lets this sink in.
JORGE: I gotta cousin in New York.
MIGUEL: You're going to New York?
JORGE: Where else? There's no work back home. My bonus won't last forever. Miguel looks off. Jorge senses his anxiety.
JORGE: Relax Sugar, I'll see you at Yankee Stadium someday. when the Knights come to town. I'll be in the front row, getting drunk, and cheering the Miguel smiles.
JORGE: Not for you though. Yankee fans are crazy. I can't take the risk. I'll call you. A beat as Miguel looks at Jorge with concern. Jorge shakes it You worry too much, Sugar. I'll be okay. I mean, it's just a game, right? Miguel nods.
JORGE: You worry too much, Sugar. I'll be okay. I mean, it's just a game, right? Miguel nods.
SOFIA: How'd you play tonight?
MIGUEL: ( hesitant ) Good, good.
SOFIA: I bet you have lots of groupies waiting for you after your games.
MIGUEL: I have a few.
SOFIA: A few?
MIGUEL: Just kidding. I mean I would, but none of these white girls speak Spanish. Marcos plays in Arizona. Lots of Mexicans; everyone speaks Spanish. He has like fifteen girlfriends.
SOFIA: Shut up!
MIGUEL: He's probably lying though.
SOFIA: I bet he's lying. A beat, as Miguel shifts gears.
MIGUEL: Jorge went to New York.
SOFIA: To the Yankees?
MIGUEL: No. Our team cut him loose. He's got a cousin there. I don't know what he's going to do.
SOFIA: Shit. What about his family?
MIGUEL: ( his mind somewhere else ) It's not right. He got injured playing for them. They owe him another chance. He's worked too hard for too long. I mean he's not a horse.
SOFIA: But you can't let it get to you. You've got nothing to worry about. Just keep playing well, and things will be okay.
MIGUEL: Yeah. I know. Things will be okay. Miguel looks off, not so sure.
MIGUEL: What is your book?
BRAD: Welcome to the Terrordome. It's about sports and politics.
MIGUEL: You study at, um, university?
BRAD: Yeah, I went to Stanford. Studied history and baseball. Did you go to school back in the DR?
MIGUEL: Yes. Little. Secondaria?
BRAD: High school?
MIGUEL: Yes. A little of. high school. But I sign when I have sixteen years.
BRAD: You signed at sixteen? Wow. So you didn't finish school?
MIGUEL: If you no play baseball. what you do?
BRAD: Um. it's hard to say for sure, but I like history, so I'd probably go to grad school. maybe teach someday.
ANNE: These are grandma's from the other Miguel lets her pass into the kitchen, put the dishes on the table. They stand awkwardly for a beat, looking at each other.
ANNE: We missed you at our meeting, Thursday.
MIGUEL: Sorry. I forget.
ANNE: It's okay, maybe next time.
MIGUEL: You want sit?
ANNE: I gotta go actually, so
MIGUEL: Okay, go. Miguel sits, gets back to work on the drawer. Anne looks at him for a second, then exits. Miguel glances out the window, watches Anne climb into a pickup truck idling in the driveway. Anne and Miguel make brief eye contact before the truck speeds away, a trail of dust following it into the distance.
STU: There was an injury to the Wichita right-fielder. They called up Brad this morning. He left you this. Stu hands Miguel an old paperback book. INSERT: a Spanish-language version of Roberto Clemente's biography. Miguel opens to the first page, where Brad has inscribed a note, "See you in Kansas City, Mama침ema!" Miguel smiles, bittersweet, when a familiar VOICE calls out.
SALVADOR: Yo! Sugar! Miguel turns around to find Salvador Torres ( the once scrawny kid from the Academy ) running at him. They hug.
MIGUEL: Holy shit! How'd you get here?
SALVADOR: On a airplane, motherfucker. Miguel playfully flips Salvador's cap bill down over his face for being a smartass.
STU: Great, you guys know each other. Sal's our new middle-relief man. Throws a nasty cutter. You could learn a thing or two from him, Santos.
MIGUEL: Stu walks back towards the coaches' office.
SALVADOR: What he say?
MIGUEL: ( not sure himself ) Don't worry about it. Good to see Good to see you, too, Sugar. ( a beat ) I'm a little nervous.
SALVADOR: Good to see you, too, Sugar. I'm a little nervous.
MIGUEL: Look, just remember. it's the same game we played back home. Same rules, different place. Just have fun. It's only a game.
THE DUGOUT: .Stu is scribbling on his scorecard. MIGUEL quickly sets up for his next pitch, but Stu is on his way out to the mound. Miguel glances back to the bullpen, where Salvador is warming up. Stu signals for Salvador to come in, and we follow Miguel off the field to scattered applause. A148 IN THE RADIO BOOTH Jack Jefferies continues his play-by-play ofA148 the game.
JACK JEFFERIES: Sutton makes the call to pull Santos here in the 4th, bringing in rookie reliever, Salvador Torres for his Bridgetown debut. his head.
UMPIRE: Salvador seems to relax. Winds up his next pitch, and. .the ball appears to zig-zag across the plate, freezing the hitter in confusion.
UMPIRE: Strike two! MIGUEL can't watch, hides behind the towel again. SLOW ZOOM IN on Miguel's head, hidden.
JACK JEFFERIES: A stellar debut for Torres, who records the final out, baffling Josh Lansford with a nasty side-armed cutter. ovation from the fans and his teammates.
STU: Welcome to America, kid. Salvador sits next to Miguel on the bench, admiring the ball.
MIGUEL: Just do me a favor. don't give it away to the first white girl you meet.
HELEN: You started dropping your arm in the third. I think that was your problem.
EARL: He lost control of his breaking pitches and they just zeroed in on the fastball, which isn't as fast as it used to be.
HELEN: Don't matter, he can't understand Miguel stares out the window in the backseat.
EARL: Don't matter, he can't understand Miguel stares out the window in the backseat.
STU: I know it's hard when you don't perform up to your own expectations for yourself. But you need to learn self- control. Can you understand what I'm saying? You need to learn that your actions have consequences. So we're gonna take the cost of the water unit you broke out of your next check. That's not something your family back home's gonna be too proud of. Is it? Miguel turns his gaze to Stu. Though he doesn't fully understand what he's saying, Stu's intention is clear.
STU: So you should think real hard next time. Think about channeling that frustration you're feeling onto the field. Into practice. Channel it into working harder
MIGUEL: I am work hard! Everyday I work So work harder, goddamnit! You think you're the only one on this team works
STU: So work harder, goddamnit! You think you're the only one on this team works
MIGUEL: ( in Spanish ) I don't understand you. You speak too fast. I just don't understand!
STU: Look, you may think I don't know what you're going through, but I do. I've been on the mound; I've played through pain. I've been in your exact situation before. I've struggled too. I've. As Miguel glances away in frustration, Stu stops himself. They sit in silence. Hold.
JEFF: Listen, your first time, take a half. Okay? No more. You gotta ease into it. Half. Miguel nods.
JEFF: And anyone finds these, you didn't get them from me, okay? Before Miguel can respond, Salvador enters with his dirty laundry. Miguel hides the pills.
SALVADOR: What's up?
JEFF: What's up, Sal? Jeff heads out. Miguel resumes folding his clothes.
SALVADOR: Did you hear I made player of the week?
MIGUEL: You told me last night. Salvador examines his detergent options from the dispenser Which one do you use? Miguel eyes the bleach. Can't help himself.
SALVADOR: Which one do you use? Miguel eyes the bleach. Can't help himself.
MIGUEL: That one.
SALVADOR: Salvador inserts coins into the machine, pulls the bleach lever.
THUD!: .a cloud of dust pops off the catcher's mitt, just like the old days. Miguel's "stuff" is back. And he knows it. A161 IN THE STANDS. Earl and Helen settle into their box seats A161 eating caramel corn and cola. B161 RADIO ANNOUNCERS BOOTH. Jack Jefferies at the mic. B161
JACK JEFFERIES: Miguel Santos appears to be in top form tonight, striking out two of three in the first. I don't want to jinx it, but this sure looks like the Santos we knew earlier this season.
JACK JEFFERIES: Top of the fifth and Santos is showing some control issues. Not sure what's going on down there, but he seems to be talking to himself.
ORLANDO: Don't worry about it. You're all good. Just relax. Throw strikes. They can't touch you. Just throw strikes.
UMPIRE: Orlando nods, encouraging. Throws the ball back. Miguel takes another deep breath. He whispers a prayer to himself, grabs the ball in his spike curve grip, and. .his next pitch is ROCKED to deep left field. Miguel immediately lowers his head, unable to watch. We HOLD on his anguished reaction, as the hitter circles the bases. STU shakes his head in disappointment. C164 FROM THE BULLPEN, Salvador watches, concerned. C164 D164 FROM THE STANDS, Earl and Helen clap for encouragement. D164 E164 MIGUEL does his best to shake it off, but he keeps muttering toE164 himself, which makes him look crazy. Another deep breath. Another pitch.
UMPIRE: ( ejecting Miguel ) You're outta here! Fucking Puerto Rican piece of shit!
BATTER: Fucking Puerto Rican piece of shit!
MIGUEL: ( in English ) Fuck you, cocksucker!
MIGUEL: I'm sorry. Helen turns off the faucet, turns around. Earl methodically sets down his mug, stands up, and crosses to Miguel. Puts his arm around his shoulder, wherein. .Miguel breaks down, hugs Earl around the waist, his face pressed against his stomach. He's crying. Hold.
STU: You played with your emotions, and your emotions got the best of you. Happens to everyone. It's just a nasty part of the game. Nobody likes to admit it, but it is. The true test of our character as athletes. is how we come back. It's up to you. Stu notices Hardy, the Swing mascot, pass by his office door.
STU: Hardy! Don't wander off; I gotta talk to you about that accountant.
JACK JEFFERIES: Moving up from relief, Torres makes his third start for the Swing. I tell ya, this lanky kid from the Dominican Republic has surprised us all with his unique delivery and precision. Reminds me of a young Pedro Martinez. Hey there Bees fans, don't forget, closing night is approaching fast and tickets are selling out. So pick yours up at the box office today.
HELEN: Oh, honey, you don't have to do that.
MIGUEL: ( his English better than No problem. I want to help.
HELEN: Well, thank you, Miguel.
MIGUEL: Thank you, Helen.
MIGUEL: I forgot something in the clubhouse. I'll be right back. As Miguel turns, Salvador grabs his bag, which is still on his Here, I'll load your bag. Miguel grips his bag tighter and the two of them lock eyes. Salvador senses his intensity, releases the bag. Miguel backs away with Salvador looking on.
SALVADOR: Here, I'll load your bag. Miguel grips his bag tighter and the two of them lock eyes. Salvador senses his intensity, releases the bag. Miguel backs away with Salvador looking on.
ED: Where's he going?
SALVADOR: AT THE CLUBHOUSE ENTRANCE Miguel turns back to the bus, sees. .Salvador eyeing him from the open bus window. Sal raises his hand, very subtly waves goodbye. Miguel continues on his way.
REYNA: ( in Spanish, of course ) Talk to me.
MIGUEL: Is Jorge working today?
REYNA: Jorge Ramirez. A bus boy, RAFAEL, overhears as he passes by.
MIGUEL: Jorge Ramirez. A bus boy, RAFAEL, overhears as he passes by.
RAFAEL: Jorge, the ball player!
MIGUEL: Official Shooting Script as of 10/22/07 90.
REYNA: Oh. The ballpayer. He left about two weeks ago.
RAFAEL: I think he drives a car now.
MIGUEL: Do you have a phone number for him? His old one isn't working.
RAFAEL: ( shaking his head ) Sorry. But I think he was staying down at concourse village on 156th.
REYNA: He still comes in to eat sometimes.
SECURITY GUARD: ( in English ) You wanta see the inside, you gotta buy a ticket, pal.
MIGUEL: ( jumping down )
MIGUEL: One room.
NIKOLAI: For how long?
MIGUEL: I don't know.
NIKOLAI: Two hundred a week. First week in As Miguel tries to piece together what was just said, he notices a rack of condoms beside a set of long distance calling cards on the front desk. The name of the calling card is AL칍 MAM츼!
NIKOLAI: Two hundred now. Miguel reaches for the calling card.
MIGUEL: This also please.
MIGUEL: You speak Spanish?
OSVALDO: Of course.
MIGUEL: Is this your place?
OSVALDO: Yeah. Can I help you? Miguel glances around at the various wooden furniture items for I like your work.
MIGUEL: I like your work.
OSVALDO: Thanks. What are you looking for?
MIGUEL: Oh, no, I mean. I don't know. I was passing by and thought maybe you might need some help. I know how to make furniture, and
OSVALDO: I don't have any work right now. Right. Okay, thanks for your time. Osvaldo gets back to his computer, but Miguel lingers.
MIGUEL: Right. Okay, thanks for your time. Osvaldo gets back to his computer, but Miguel lingers.
MIGUEL: Do you know any other places like this where I might find work?
OSVALDO: Have you checked the classifieds?
RAFAEL: If you leave a number, I'll give it to him next time he comes through.
MIGUEL: ( into phone ) Miguel! My God, where are you?
ERICA: Miguel! My God, where are you? Carmen snatches the phone from Erica, who stays close, trying to listen in.
CARMEN: Miguelito, what is going on? Frank called last night. Where are you?
MIGUEL: New York.
CARMEN: Oh, my God! What are you doing in New York? I don't understand. Your team is looking for you.
MIGUEL: I can't play anymore.
CARMEN: Are you hurt? What does that mean, you can't play?
MIGUEL: No. I'm fine. It just
CARMEN: We've been working for this your whole life, Miguelito. Oh, my God! You're so close. I don't understand.
MIGUEL: Don't worry, mom. I have some money. We're going to be okay.
CARMEN: You have to go back. Listen, Miguel, my sweet sugar, call Frank. They'll take you back.
MIGUEL: I can't go back
CARMEN: Did I raise you like this? Did I raise you to give up?
MIGUEL: I didn't give up. I'm starting something new here.
CARMEN: What? What are you starting?
MIGUEL: I have to go mom. The card's almost out of minutes.
CARMEN: Where are you even staying? Miguel
MIGUEL: Don't worry. I'm staying with a friend. I have a new job. It's all good. I'm sending money tomorrow.
CARMEN: I love you. I'm sorry. Miguel hangs up, stares off.
MIGUEL: I love you. I'm sorry. Miguel hangs up, stares off.
MIGUEL: Hey, um, I was in here the other day.
REYNA: Yeah, sure, did you find your guy?
MIGUEL: No. I'm actually looking for a job She smiles, calls over to.
REYNA: ( leans close to Miguel ) Tell him you like his shirt.
RAFAEL: And then put it in here with the Miguel puts the plate in the large dish washer.
RAFAEL: When it's full, set to scrub, and there it is. Miguel stares at the machine as it HUMS and WHIRS.
MIGUEL: Do you know anybody with a room for Rafael shakes his head, no.
RAFAEL: But I'll ask around, let you know if I hear of anything. Miguel nods, gets back to his food.
RAFAEL: You and Jorge used to play baseball Yeah, you like baseball?
MIGUEL: Yeah, you like baseball?
RAFAEL: It's okay. I'd rather watch soccer though. Have you found him yet?
MIGUEL: Not yet.
RAFAEL: He'll be through sooner or later.
MIGUEL: How long have you worked here?
RAFAEL: Two years.
MIGUEL: Do you have family here?
RAFAEL: No. My wife and kids are still in My family's in the Dominican. Rafael nods, and they continue eating.
MIGUEL: My family's in the Dominican. Rafael nods, and they continue eating.
MIGUEL: Hi, um, do you remember me?
OSVALDO: Yeah, but, sorry, I still don't have a job for you.
MIGUEL: That's okay. I already found one. I'm actually just trying to make a coffee table, and I'd like to buy some wood and supplies.
OSVALDO: I don't really sell raw materials. Miguel hesitates.
MIGUEL: I just moved here, you know, and I don't have a space to work. Do you think I could do some work for you, help you clean up or whatever you need, in exchange for using your shop? You don't have to pay me. Osvaldo sizes up Miguel's unusual request.
OSVALDO: Somebody paying you for the table?
MIGUEL: No. It's a gift for my mom. Something I like to do.
OSVALDO: How old are you?
MIGUEL: Who taught you to make tables?
OSVALDO: Who taught you to make tables?
MIGUEL: My dad. He was a carpenter in San Is that where you're from?
OSVALDO: Is that where you're from?
MIGUEL: I grew up in Santiago. What are you doing in New York?
OSVALDO: I grew up in Santiago. What are you doing in New York?
MIGUEL: I came to work. I used to play Osvaldo nods, understanding.
OSVALDO: The whole world plays baseball. My son's sixteen. Won't touch a piece of wood that's not a bat. I never cared for the game, myself. Too slow. Miguel laughs.
OSVALDO: Your mom still in San Pedro?
MIGUEL: Yeah. With my sister and brother.
OSVALDO: So, you're telling me that you want to make a table for your mom, then mail it back to her in the Dominican? Miguel nods. Osvaldo smiles, finally warming up.
OSVALDO: What's your name?
MIGUEL: They shake hands.
OSVALDO: Official Shooting Script as of 10/22/07 99.
MIGUEL: Hello. Is Sofia at home?. Yeah, it's Miguel again. Can you tell her. Just tell her I called. Miguel hangs up.
RAQUEL: ( with a mysterious Eastern- You just going to watch or you going to help me out?
MIGUEL: Where you from?
RAQUEL: Miguel nods, and they continue folding in silence. Hold.
MIGUEL: So you never liked baseball? Not even as a kid?
OSVALDO: It's okay. Sometimes during the playoffs I'll watch a game or two.
MIGUEL: Who's your favorite player?
OSVALDO: I don't know enough to have a favorite.
MIGUEL: C'mon, everybody has a favorite player: Juan Marichal, Pedro Martinez?
OSVALDO: Fine. Jose Canseco.
MIGUEL: Jose Canseco!? That's the best you can Okay, what about you?
OSVALDO: Okay, what about you?
MIGUEL: Roberto Clemente.
OSVALDO: ( pushing his buttons ) Never heard of him.
MIGUEL: Shut up.
OSVALDO: What's so special about Clemente?
MIGUEL: I read this book where he said something like, "If you have the opportunity to help someone and don't, then you're wasting your life." And he was a carpenter too.
OSVALDO: Get out of here.
MIGUEL: For real. He used to make furniture during the off season.
OSVALDO: Are you fucking with me? Cause you know I can google this fool right now.
MIGUEL: The internet. Don't worry, I'll teach you someday.
OSVALDO: The internet. Don't worry, I'll teach you someday.
OSVALDO: When did you get released?
MIGUEL: They didn't release me. I left a few days before the season ended.
OSVALDO: You left? When was this?
MIGUEL: About two weeks ago.
OSVALDO: Holy shit. Where are you staying?
MIGUEL: Oh, you know, with a friend. But if you know somebody who needs a Osvaldo nods and they continue working.
OSVALDO: ( after a beat ) Why'd you leave?
OSVALDO: Do you have any family here?
MIGUEL: ( shaking his head ) But I'm okay. I have some money saved, a couple friends. I'll go home to visit soon.
MIGUEL: Do you know a place called Ukraine?
NIKOLAI: Hey! You owe money. Full week!
MIGUEL: I know. I have tomorrow. No problem.
NIKOLAI: Yes, problem. You pay tomorrow or you have big problem. Miguel continues up the stairs.
RAQUEL: ( handing him the bag ) Love, keep this in your room for me. Just a few hours. Til morning. I'll be back.
MIGUEL: Frank. It's Miguel. We hold on Miguel, though we can hear Frank's muffled voice through the receiver.
MIGUEL: Sorry for calling late. I'm in New I heard. You're making me look bad. What are you doing there?
MIGUEL: I got a job, but I don't know if I'm going to stay.
MIGUEL: I know, but I thought maybe I could. A beat, as Miguel drifts off.
FRANK: I can talk to Alvarez. But I don't know. Nobody's happy about this. Miguel bites his lip. A police SIREN flies by.
MIGUEL: I know. Sorry.
OSVALDO: Hey, Miguel. Miguel doesn't respond. Osvaldo notices his packed bag and worn expression. Both men stare at each other for a long beat.
MIGUEL: I don't know where to go. Osvaldo approaches, takes the duffel from Miguel's shoulder.
BEEEEEEP!: .he's startled by a loud car horn coming from a black livery cab parked at the curb.
MIGUEL: ( giving the finger ) Fuck you, man!
JORGE: Fuck you too, bro! Miguel turns to find Jorge, leaping out of his car, and running at him. They hug.
MIGUEL: What happened to you?
JORGE: Me? What happened to you?
MIGUEL: I been looking for you for weeks.
JORGE: I know. Rafi said you took my old job. Welcome to New York!
JORGE: I called the Higgins to give my new number, but they said you split. I couldn't believe it, man, I had no Things got a little ugly after you We all go through slumps you know.
MIGUEL: Things got a little ugly after you We all go through slumps you know.
JORGE: We all go through slumps you know.
MIGUEL: It wasn't a slump.
JORGE: What was it then?
MIGUEL: I don't know, but I wasn't gonna wait around for them to throw me out. Jorge looks at Miguel for a tense beat.
MIGUEL: I'm just saying.
JORGE: Whatever, man, you wouldn't be saying that shit if you made it. Miguel smiles, shrugs.
REYNA: ( from across the room ) Sugar! Rafi needs you in the kitchen!
JORGE: They call you Sugar? On his way to the kitchen.
MIGUEL: What can I say? The name sticks. As Miguel slips past Reyna on his way to the kitchen, they exchange flirtatious smiles.
JORGE: They got all kinds in this league, bro. Like fat cats in their forties, kids like you and me, Dominicans, Puerto Ricans, even some white boys. I got this fifty year old catcher on my team, used to play for the Dodgers. Can't run for shit, but he's out there every week. Belly out to here. My man can still go deep though. You ever hear from that kid, Brad? Reyna leans close to Miguel, says something in his ear, and he smiles, as she leads him out onto.
OSVALDO: I did some research and I got a new favorite player now.
MIGUEL: Okay, good.
OSVALDO: Vic Power. You know him? Miguel shakes his head, no.
OSVALDO: You ought to. Greatest Puerto Rican first baseman ever. But that's not why he's my favorite player. Back when he first arrived, 1951, 52, he was playing in the minors. Little Rock, Arkansas. So the story goes, one day before a game, Vic stops into this diner for lunch. Hadn't been here long, so he knew very little English. Didn't even notice the "whites only" sign hanging in the window. And Vic was Black. I looked him up on Google. I mean Black like you. So he sits down at the counter and the little waitress comes up to big Vic and says, "I'm sorry, we don't serve colored people." Osvaldo pauses for dramatic effect, as Miguel and Estella eagerly await what comes next.
OSVALDO: So he leans close to the waitress, tells her in his best English, "That's okay, I don't eat colored people." After a beat, Estella laughs, but Miguel is unsure. Osvaldo does his best to explain the joke in Spanish.
A: She sits at her table in the same old house. ( We can see through the window that the new one is still unfinished ).
CARMEN: I got the photos you sent, but you'll have to send more.
MIGUEL: Okay, mom, but you know it would be a lot easier if you opened an email Email? I don't even know how to use the TV! Miguel smiles.
CARMEN: Email? I don't even know how to use the TV! Miguel smiles.
MIGUEL: I'm making a new table for you. It's going to be real nice.
CARMEN: I'm sure I'll love it. Thank you.
MIGUEL: How's Erica?
CARMEN: She's good. Got a job at the factory. Just part-time, though, so she can keep up with school. Miguel removes the phone from his ear for a beat.
MIGUEL: And Luis?
CARMEN: He's pitching now. You should see him, Miguel, got an arm like his brother.
MIGUEL: Yeah, but can he throw a knuckle curve? Carmen laughs. After a beat.
MIGUEL: I miss you, mom. But, I'm working hard. I'll be home soon. Give everyone a hug for me.
CARMEN: I will, Sugar. I love you.
MIGUEL: I love you, too. She nods, hangs up, and looks over to. .LITTLE LUIS, watching her from across the room.
JORGE: Caballo! This is Miguel from San The new guy. You ready to pitch?
CABALLO: The new guy. You ready to pitch?
MIGUEL: I think so.
CABALLO: It's been a while, no?
JORGE: Don't worry; he's ready.
JORGE: Felipe! Meet Miguel. They call him What's up, Sugar?
FELIPE: What's up, Sugar?
JORGE: Felipe played for the Dodgers Triple-A team. Hit a dinger off Pedro once.
FELIPE: JUMP CUT TO:
JORGE: JUMP CUT TO:
DIEGO: I played for the Yankees.
JOSE: JUMP CUT TO: JUMP CUT TO:
ADRIAN: JUMP CUT TO:
GERONIMO: Kansas City.
MIGUEL: Me too! Bridgetown.
GERONIMO: I was there in 96. I lived on a farm.
MIGUEL: With the Higgins!
GERONIMO: Miguel smiles big, just as the UMPIRE calls out.
UMPIRE: Vamos! Let's play ball!
MIGUEL: ( smiling ) Just like old times.
UMPIRE: He gets the ball back, looks to the stands, and sees. .Monica waving to Jorge at third. Miguel's new friend, Osvaldo, is also there with Estella. Miguel smiles to them. Miguel fires in the next pitch, even faster, and the batter swings straight through it.
UMPIRE: Strike two! He gets the ball back, lowers his head and whispers a prayer to himself. Looks back to the runner on second. Comes to the set position, and. .floats in a vicious, swooping, knuckle curve, that causes the batter to flinch out of the way, before breaking back over the plate for.
UMPIRE: Strike three! All the fans and players in attendance go NUTS over the awesome pitch, as we follow Miguel off the field to a mini-standing ovation. He tips his hat to the crowd. Just like old times.
