SUNSET BOULEVARD: Charles Brackett Billy Wilder D.M. Marshman, Jr. March 21,1949
SEQUENCE "A": A-l-4 START the picture with the actual street sign: A-5 PATIO AND POOL OF A murder has been re-
MAN'S VOICE: Angle up through the If so, you've come to the water from the bottom right party. You see, of the pool, as the the body of a young man body floats face down- was found floating in the ward. It is a well- pool of her mansion, with dressed young man. two shots in his back and SLOW DISSOLVE TO: only the price turned out A-7 HOLLYWOOD, SEEN FROM months and find the day THE HILLTOP AT IVAR when it all started.
GILLIS: The buzzer SOUNDS again. Gillis gets up and opens the door. Two men wearing hats stand outside one of them carrying a briefcase.
NO. 1: Joseph C. Gillis?
GILLIS: That's right. The men ease into the room. No. 1 hands Gillis a business card.
NO. 1: We've come for the car.
GILLIS: What car?
NO. 2: ( Consulting a paper ) 1946 Plymouth convertible. Calif- ornia license 97 N 567.
NO. 1: Where are the keys?
GILLIS: Why should I give you the keys?
NO. 1: Because the company's played ball with you long enough. Because you're three payments behind. And because we've got a Court order. Come on the keys.
NO. 2: Or do you want us to jack it up and haul it away?
GILLIS: Relax, fans. The car isn't here.
NO. 1: Is that So?
GILLIS: I lent it to a friend of mine. He took it up to Palm Springs.
NO. 1: Had to get away for his health, I suppose.
GILLIS: You don't believe me? Look in the garage.
NO. 1: Sure we believe you, only now we want you to believe us. That car better be back here by noon tomorrow, or there's going to be fireworks.
GILLIS: You say the cutest things. The men leave. Gillis GILLIS' VOICE stands pondering beside Well, I needed about two the door for a moment. hundred and ninety dollars Then he walks to the and I needed it real center of the room and, quick, or I'd lose my car. with his back to the It wasn't in Palm Springs CAMERA, slips into a and it wasn't in the pair of gray slacks. garage. I was way ahead There is a metallic of the finance company. noise as some loose change and keys drop from the trouser pockets. As Gillis bends over to pick them up, we see that he has dropped the car keys, identifiable be- cause of a rabbit's foot and a miniature license plate attached to the key-ring. Gillis pockets the keys and as he starts to put on a DISSOLVE TO: SHOESHINE PARLOR ( DAY ) A small shack-like build- around and I wasn't tak- ing, it stands in the ing any chances, so I corner of a public park- kept it a couple of ing lot. Rudy, a blocks away in a parking colored boy, is giving lot behind Rudy's Shoe- a customer a shine. shine Parlor. Rudy PAN BEHIND the shack to GILLIS' CAR, a yellow 1946 Plymouth convertible with the top down. Gillis enters the SHOT. He is wearing a tweed sport jacket, a tan polo shirt, and moooasins. He steps into the car and drives it off. Rudy winks after him.
SHELDRAKE: All right, Gillis. You've got five minutes. What's your story It's about a ball player, a rookie shortstop that's batting 347. The poor kid was once mixed up in a hold- up. But he's trying to go straight except there's a bunch of gamblers who won't let him.
GILLIS: It's about a ball player, a rookie shortstop that's batting 347. The poor kid was once mixed up in a hold- up. But he's trying to go straight except there's a bunch of gamblers who won't let him.
SHELDRAKE: So they tell the kid to throw the World Series, or else, huh?
GILLIS: More or less. Only for the end I've got a gimmick that's real good. A secretary enters, carrying a glass or milk. She opens a drawer and takes out a bottle of pills for Got a title?
SHELDRAKE: Got a title?
GILLIS: Bases Loaded. There's a 4O-page Get the Readers' Department and see what they have on Bases Loaded. The secretary exits. Sheldrake takes a pill and washes it down with some milk.
SHELDRAKE: ( To the secretary ) Get the Readers' Department and see what they have on Bases Loaded.
GILLIS: They're pretty hot about it over at Twentieth, but I think Zanuck's all wet. Can you see Ty Power as a shortstop? You've got the best man for it right here on this lot. Alan Ladd. Good change of pace for Alan Ladd. There's another thing: it's pretty simple to shoot. Lot of outdoor stuff. Bet you could make the whole thing for under a million. And there's a great little part for Bill Demarest. One of the trainers, an oldtime player who got beaned and goes out of his head The door opens and Betty Schaefer enters a clean- cut, nice looking girl of 21, with a bright, alert manner. Dressed in tweed skirt, Brooks sweater and pearls, and carrying a folder of papers. She puts them on Sheldrake's desk, not noticing Gillis, who stands near the door.
BETTY: Hello, Mr. Sheldrake. On that Bases Loaded. I covered it with a 2-page But I wouldn't bother.
SHELDRAKE: What's wrong with it?
BETTY: It's from hunger.
SHELDRAKE: Nothing for Ladd?
BETTY: Just a rehash of something that wasn't very good to begin with.
SHELDRAKE: I'm sure you'll be glad to meet Mr. Gillis. He wrote it. Betty turns towards Gillis, embarrassed.
SHELDRAKE: This is Miss Kramer.
BETTY: Schaefer. Betty Schaefer. And right now I wish I could crawl into a hole and pull it in after If I could be of any help.
GILLIS: If I could be of any help.
BETTY: I'm sorry, Mr. Gillis, but I just don't think it's any good. I found it flat and banal.
GILLIS: Exactly what kind of material do you recommend? James Joyce? Name dropper.
SHELDRAKE: Name dropper.
BETTY: I just think pictures should say a little something.
GILLIS: Oh, you're one of the message kids. Just a story won't do. You'd have turned down Gone With the No, that was me. I said, Who wants to see a Civil War picture?
SHELDRAKE: No, that was me. I said, Who wants to see a Civil War picture?
BETTY: Perhaps the reason I hated Bases Loaded is that I knew your name. I'd always heard you had some That was last year. This year I'm trying to earn a living.
GILLIS: That was last year. This year I'm trying to earn a living.
BETTY: So you take Plot 27-A, make it glossy, make it slick
SHELDRAKE: Carefull Those are dirty words! You sound like a bunch of New York critics. Thank you, Miss Goodbye, Mr. Gillis.
BETTY: Goodbye, Mr. Gillis.
GILLIS: Goodbye. Next time I'll write The Naked and the Dead. Betty leaves.
SHELDRAKE: Well, seems like Zanuck's got himself a baseball picture.
GILLIS: Mr. Sheldrake, I don't want you to think I thought this was going to win any Academy Award.
SHELDRAKE: ( His mind free-wheeling ) Of course, we're always looking for a Betty Hutton. Do you see it as a Betty Hutton?
GILLIS: Frankly, no.
SHELDRAKE: ( Amusing himself ) Now wait a minute. If we made it a girls' softball team, put in a few numbers. Might make a cute musical: It Happened in the Bull Pen the story of a You trying to be funny? because I'm all out of laughs. I'm over a barrel and I need a job.
GILLIS: You trying to be funny? because I'm all out of laughs. I'm over a barrel and I need a job.
SHELDRAKE: Sure, Gillis. If something should come along -
GILLIS: Along is no good. I need it now.
SHELDRAKE: Haven't got a thing.
GILLIS: Any kind of assignment. Additional There's nothing, Gillis. Not even if you were a relative.
SHELDRAKE: There's nothing, Gillis. Not even if you were a relative.
GILLIS: ( Hating it ) Look, Mr. Sheldrake, could you let me have three hundred bucks yourself, as a personal loan?
SHELDRAKE: Could I? Gillis, last year some- body talked me into buying a ranch in the valley. So I borrowed money from the bank so I could pay for the ranch. This year I had to mortgage the ranch so I could keep up my life insurance so I could borrow on the insurance so I could pay my income tax. Now if Dewey had been elected -
GILLIS: Goodbye, Mr. Sheldrake.
SKOLSKY: Hello, Gillis. Gillis looks around. At the fountain sits Skolsky, drinking a cup of coffee.
GILLIS: Hello, Mr. Skolsky.
SKOLSKY: Got anything for the column?
GILLIS: Sure. Just sold an original for a hundred grand. The Life of the Warner Brothers. Starring the Ritz Brothers. Playing opposite the Andrew Sisters.
SKOLSKY: ( With a sour smile ) But don't get me wrong I love
MORINO: So you need three hundred dollars? Of course, I could give you three hundred dollars. Only I'm not going to.
GILLIS: Gillis, get this through your head. I'm not just your agent. It's not the ten per cent. I'm your friend. He sinks his putt and walks toward the next tee, Gillis following him.
MORINO: Gillis, get this through your head. I'm not just your agent. It's not the ten per cent. I'm your friend. He sinks his putt and walks toward the next tee, Gillis following him.
GILLIS: How's that about your being my Don't you know the finest things in the world have been written on an empty stomach? Once a talent like yours gets into that Mocambo- Romanoff rut, you're through.
MORINO: Don't you know the finest things in the world have been written on an empty stomach? Once a talent like yours gets into that Mocambo- Romanoff rut, you're through.
GILLIS: Forget Romanoff's. It's the car I'm talking about. If I lose my car it's like having my legs out off.
MORINO: Greatest thing that could happen to you. Now you'll have to sit behind that typewriter. Now you'll have to write.
GILLIS: What do you think I've been doing? I need three hundred dollars.
MORINO: ( Icily ) Maybe what you need is another agent.
GILLIS' VOICE: driving down Sunset As I drove back towards town towards Hollywood. He I took inventory of my pros- drives slowly. His pects. They now added up to mind is working. exactly zero. Apparently I Gillis stops his car at right you wise guys. why don't a red light by the main you go out and take a crack at entrance to Bel Air. Hollywood? Maybe you think Suddenly his eyes fall you could Oh-oh! A-16 ANOTHER CAR It is a dark-green Dodge business coupe, also waiting for the light to change. but headed in the opposite direction. In it are the two finance company men. They spot Gillis in his car and exchange looks. From across the intersection Gillis recognizes them and pulls down the leather sunshade to screen his face. As the light changes. Gillis gives his car the gun and shoots away. The men narrowly avoid hitting another car as they make a U-turn into oncoming traffic and start after him.
GILLIS' VOICE: Was I far enough ahead?
WOMAN'S VOICE: Wlly are you so late? Why have you kept me waitlng so long?
MAX: In here! Gillis enters the shot.
GILLIS: I just put my car in the garage. I had a blow-out. I thought
MAX: Go on in. There is authority in the gesture of his white- gloved hand as he motions Gillis inside.
GILLIS: Look, maybe I'd better take my Wipe your feet! Automatically, Gillis wipes his feet on an enormous shabby cocoanut mat.
MAX: Wipe your feet! Automatically, Gillis wipes his feet on an enormous shabby cocoanut mat.
MAX: You are not dressed properly.
GILLIS: Dressed for what?
MAX: ( Gesturing ) Up the stairs!
GILLIS: Suppose you listen just for a minute -
MAX: Madame is waiting.
GILLIS: For me? Okay. Gillis enters.
MAX: ( From below ) If you need help with the coffin call me.
WOMAN'S VOICE: This way! Gillis swings around. Norma Desmond stands down the corridor next to a doorway from which emerges a flickering light. She is a little woman. There is a curious style, a great sense of high voltage about her. She is dress- ed in black house pyjamas and black high-heeled pumps. Around her throat there is a leopard-pat- terned scarf, and wound around her head a turban of the same material. Her skin is very pale, and she is wearing dark glasses.
NORMA: In here. I put him on my massage table in front of the fire. He always liked fires and poking at them with a stick. Gillis enters the SHOT and she leads him into
NORMA: I've made up my mind we'll bury him in the garden. Any city laws against that?
GILLIS: I wouldn't know.
NORMA: I don't care anyway. I want the coffin to be white. And I want it specially lined with satin. White, or deep pink. She picks up the shawl to make up her mind about the color. From under the shawl flops down a dead arm. Gillis stares and recoils a little. It is like a child's arm, only black and hairy.
NORMA: Maybe red. bright flaming red. Gay. Let's make it gay. Gillis edges closer and glances down. Under the shawl he sees the sad, bearded face of a dead chimpanzee. Norma drops back the shawl.
NORMA: How much will it be? I warn you - don't give me a fancy price just because I'm rich.
GILLIS: Lady. you've got the wrong man. For the first time. Norma really looks at him through her dark glasses.
GILLIS: I had some trouble with my car. Flat tire. I pulled into your garage till I could get a spare. I thought this was an empty house.
NORMA: It is not. Get out.
GILLIS: I'm sorry, and I'm sorry you lost your friend, and I don't think red is the right color.
NORMA: Get out.
GILLIS: Sure. Wait a minute haven't I seen you ?
NORMA: Or shall I call my servant?
GILLIS: I know your face. You're Norma Desmond. You used to be in pictures. You used to be big.
NORMA: I am big. It's the pictures that got small.
GILLIS: I knew there was something wrong with them.
NORMA: They're dead. They're finished. There was a time when this busi- ness had the eyes of the whole wide world. But that wasn't good enough. Oh, nol They wanted the ears of the world, too. So they opened their big mouths, and out came talk, talk, talk.
GILLIS: That's where the popcorn business comes in. You buy yourself a bag and plug up your ears.
NORMA: Look at them in the front offices the master minds! They took the idols and smashed them. The Fairbankses and the Chaplins and the Gilberts and the Valentinos. And who have they got now? Some nobodies a lot of pale little frogs croaking pish-poshl
GILLIS: Don't get sore at me. I'm not an executive. I'm just a writer.
NORMA: You are! Writing words, words! You've made a rope of words and strangled this businessl But there is a microphone right there to catch the last gurgles, and Technicolor to photograph the red, swollen tongue!
GILLIS: Ssh! You'll wake up that monkey.
NORMA: Get out! Gillis starts down the stairs.
GILLIS: Next time I'll bring my autograph album along, or maybe a hunk of cement and ask for your footprints. He is halfway down the staircase when he is stopped by
NORMA: Just a minute, you!
GILLIS: You're a writer, you said.
NORMA: You're a writer, you said.
GILLIS: Norma starts down the stairs.
NORMA: Are you or aren't you?
GILLIS: I think that's what it says on my driver's license.
NORMA: And you have written pictures, haven't you?
GILLIS: Sure have. The last one I wrote was about cattle rustlers. Before they were through with it, the whole thing played on a torpedo boat. Norma has reached him at the bottom of the staircase.
NORMA: I want to ask you something. Come in here. She leads him into
NORMA: The wind gets in that blasted pipe organ. I ought to have it taken out.
GILLIS: Or teach it a better tune. Norma has led him to the card tables which stand side by side near a window. They are piled high with papers scrawled in a large, uncertain hand.
NORMA: How long is a movie script these days? I mean, how many pages?
GILLIS: Depends on what it is a Donald Duck or Joan or Arc.
NORMA: This is to be a very important picture. I have written it myself. Took me years.
GILLIS: ( Looking at the piles Looks like enough for six impor- tant pictures.
NORMA: It's the story or Salome. I think I'll have DeMille direct it.
GILLIS: We've made a lot of pictures And you'll play Salome?
NORMA: We've made a lot of pictures And you'll play Salome?
GILLIS: And you'll play Salome?
NORMA: Who else ?
GILLIS: Only asking. I did't know you were planning a comeback.
NORMA: I hate that word. It is a return. A return to the millions of people who have never forgiven me for deserting the screen.
GILLIS: Fair enough.
NORMA: Salome what a woman! What a part! The Princess in love with a Holy man. She dances the Dance of the Seven Veils. He rejects her, so she demands his head on a golden tray, kissing his cold, dead They'll love it in Pomona.
GILLIS: They'll love it in Pomona.
NORMA: ( Taking it straight ) They will love it every place. ( She reaches for a Read it. Read the scene just before she has him killed!
GILLIS: Right now? Never let another writer read your stuff. He may steal it.
NORMA: I am not afraid. Read it! Max! Max! Sit down. Is there enough light?
GILLIS: I've got twenty-twenty vision. Max has entered.
NORMA: Bring something to drink.
MAX: Yes. Madame. He leaves. Norma turns to Gillis again.
NORMA: I said sit down. There is compulsion in her voice. Gillis looks at her GILLIS' VOICE and starts slowly Well. I had no pressing reading. engagement, and she'd men- Max comes in, wheeling Sometimes it's interesting a wicker tea wagon on to see just how bad bad which are two bottles o writing can be. This prom- f champagne and two ised to go the limit. I red Venetian glasses, wondered what a handwriting a box of zwieback and expert would make of that a jar of caviar. Norma childish scrawl of hers. sits on her feet. deep Max wheeled in some champagne in a chair, a gold ring and some caviar. Later, I on her forefinger with found out that Max was the a clip which holds a only other person in that cigarette. She gets up grim Sunset castle, and I and forces on Gillis found out a few other things another batch of script, about him. As for her, she goes back to her chair. sat coiled up like a watch
NORMA: ( Impatiently ) This is fascinating.
GILLIS: This is fascinating.
NORMA: Of course it is.
GILLIS: Maybe it's a little long and maybe there are some repetitions. but you're not a professional I wrote that with my heart.
NORMA: I wrote that with my heart.
GILLIS: Sure you did. That's what makes it great. What it needs is a little more dialogue.
NORMA: What for? I can say anything I want with my eyes.
GILLIS: It certainly could use a pair of shears and a blue pencil.
NORMA: I will not have it butchered.
GILLIS: Of course not. But it ought to be organized. Just an editing job. You can find somebody.
NORMA: Who? I'd have to have somebody I can trust. When were you born I mean, what sign of the zodiac?
GILLIS: I don't know.
NORMA: What month?
GILLIS: December twenty-first.
NORMA: Sagittarius. I like Sagittarians. You can trust them.
GILLIS: Thank you.
NORMA: I want you to do this work.
GILLIS: Me? I'm busy. Just finished one script. I'm due on another I don't care.
NORMA: I don't care.
GILLIS: You know, I'm pretty expensive. I get five hundred a week.
NORMA: I wouldn't worry about money. I'll make it worth your while.
GILLIS: Maybe I'd better take the rest of the script home and read it -
NORMA: Oh no. I couldn't let it out of my house. You'll have to finish it here.
GILLIS: It's getting kind of late
NORMA: Are you married, Mr. ?
GILLIS: The name is Gillis. I'm single.
NORMA: Where do you live?
GILLIS: Hollywood. The Alto Nido Apart- There's something wrong with your car, you said.
NORMA: There's something wrong with your car, you said.
GILLIS: There sure is.
NORMA: You can stay here.
GILLIS: I'll come early tomorrow. Norma takes off her glasses.
NORMA: Nonsense. There's room over the garage. Max will take you there.Max!
MAX: ( Opening the door ) I made your bed this afternoon.
GILLIS: ( On second thought ) How did you know I was going to stay, this afternoon?
MAX: This room has not been used for a long time.
GILLIS: It will never make house Beautiful. I guess it's O.K. for one night. Max gives him an enigmatic look.
MAX: ( Pointing ) There is the bathroom. I put in soap and a toothbrush.
GILLIS: ( He starts taking off Say, she's quite a character, that Norma Desmond.
MAX: She was the greatest. You wouldn't know. You are too young. In one week she got seventeen thousand fan letters. Men would bribe her mani- curist to get clippings from her fingernails. There was a Maharajah who came all the way from Hyderabad to get one of her stockings. Later, he strangled himself with it.
GILLIS: I sure turned into an interesting You did, sir.
MAX: You did, sir.
GILLIS' VOICE: He goes out. Gillis I pegged him as slightly looks after him, hangs cuckoo, too. A stroke maybe. his coat over a chair, Come to think of it, the walks over to the win- whole place seemed to have dow, pulls down the been stricken with a kind of rickety Venetian blind. creeping paralysis, out of As he does so, he looks beat with the rest of the down at: world, crumbling apart in
POOL: GILLIS' VOICE
GILLIS' VOICE: There is no water in And of course she had a pool. it, and hunks of Who didn't then? Mabel Norm- mosaic which lines its and and John Gilbert must enormous basin are have swum in it ten thousand broken away. midnights ago, and Vilma Banky
DISSOLVE: END OF SEQUENCE "A" DISSOLVE IN ON: HOUSE - ( MORNING ) The day is overcast. The SOUND: ( Distant organ house is shrouded in low music - improvisations fog. on an odd, mournful over with fog.
SEQUENCE "B": DISSOLVE IN ON: B-1 LONG SHOT THE DESMOND HOUSE - ( MORNING ) The day is overcast. The SOUND: ( Distant organ house is shrouded in low music - improvisations fog. on an odd, mournful B-2 THE TENNIS COURT, blurred the scene. ) over with fog.
GILLIS: Hey, you Max whatever -your- name-is what are my things doing No answer.
GILLIS: I'm talking to you. My clothes and things are up in the room.
MAX: Naturally. I brought them myself.
GILLIS: ( Furiously ) Is that so!
MAX: Why are you so upset? Is there anything missing?
GILLIS: Who said you could? Who asked you to? Norma Desmond's shadow moves into the shaft of Gillis looks around. On the couch by the fireplace reclines Norma Desmond, dressed in a negligee. She rises.
NORMA'S VOICE: I did. Gillis looks around. On the couch by the fireplace reclines Norma Desmond, dressed in a negligee. She rises.
NORMA: I don't know why you should be so upset. Stop that playing, It seemed like a good idea if we are to work together.
GILLIS: Look, I'm supposed to fix up your script. There's nothing in the deal about my staying You'll like it here.
NORMA: You'll like it here.
GILLIS: Thanks for the invitation, but I have my own apartment.
NORMA: You can't work in an apartment where you owe three months' rent.
GILLIS: I'll take care of that.
NORMA: It's all taken care of. It's all paid for.
GILLIS: I'm used to paying my own bills.
NORMA: You proud boy, why didn't you tell me you were having difficulties.
GILLIS: Okay. We'll deduct it from my Now, now, don't let's be small about such matters. We won't keep books. Go on, unpack Mr. Gillis' things.
NORMA: Now, now, don't let's be small about such matters. We won't keep books. Go on, unpack Mr. Gillis' things.
GILLIS: Unpack nothing. I didn't say I was staying.
NORMA: ( Her glasses off again ) Suppose you make up your mind. Do you want this job or don't you?
NORMA: What's that?
GILLIS: Just a scene I cut out.
NORMA: What scene?
GILLIS: The one where you go to the slave market. You can cut right to the scene where John the Baptist -
NORMA: Cut away from me?
GILLIS: Honestly, it's a little old hat. They don't want that any more.
NORMA: They don't? Then why do they still write me fan letters every day. Why do they beg me for my photo- graphs? Because they want to see me, me, me! Norma Desmond.
GILLIS: ( Resigned )
GILLIS' VOICE: On the table in front I didn't argue with her. of her are the photo- You don't yell at a graphs which she is sign- sleepwalker he may fall ing. On the long table and break his neck.That's in the living room is a it she was still gallery of photographs sleepwalking along the in various frames all giddy heights of a lost Norma Desmond. On the career plain crazy piano more photographs. when it came to that one Above the piano an oil subject: her celluloid portrait of her. On the self, the great Norma highboy beside him still Desmond. How could She more photographs. breathe in that house, DISSOLVE TO: Desmonds? More Norma
GILLIS' VOICE: Shooting towards the big It wasn't all work - of Gold Rush painting. Max, course. Two or three white gloves and all, times a week Max would steps into the shot, shoves haul up that enormous oil the painting up towards painting that had been the ceiling,revealing a presented to her by some motion picture screen. Nevada Chamber of Com- Max exits. merce, and we'd see a
GILLIS' VOICE: They sit on a couch,facing "So much nicer than going the screen. On a table in out," she'd say. The front of them are champagne, plain fact was that she cigarettes and coffee. was afraid of that world Above their heads are the outside. Afraid it typical openings for a pro- would remind her that jector. The lights go off. time had passed. From the opening above their heads shoots the wide beam of light. B-11 MAX, IN THE PROJECTION They were silent movies, BOOTH BEHIND THE ROOM and Max would run the The light of the machine was just as well it flickering over his face, kept him from giving us which is frozen, a somber an accompaniment on enigma. that wheezing organ.
NORMA: Still wonderful, isn't it? And no dialogue. We didn't need dialogue. We had faces. There just aren't any faces like that any more. Well, maybe one In a sudden flareup she jumps to her feet and stands in the flickering beam of light.
NORMA: Those idiot producers! Those imbeciles! Haven't they got any eyes? Have they forgotten what a star looks like? I'll show them. I'll be up there again. So help me!
MAX: ( Quietly ) Some men are here. They asked for you.
GILLIS: I'm not here.
MAX: That's what I told them.
GILLIS: They found your car in the garage. They are going to tow it away. Gillis doesn't know what to do. From offstage The ashtray, Joe dear! Can we have the ashtray? Gillis dumps the cigarette butts into the cold fire- place, crosses to the bridge table, puts the ashtray down, leans over and speaks into Norma's ear.
MAX: They found your car in the garage. They are going to tow it away. Gillis doesn't know what to do. From offstage The ashtray, Joe dear! Can we have the ashtray? Gillis dumps the cigarette butts into the cold fire- place, crosses to the bridge table, puts the ashtray down, leans over and speaks into Norma's ear.
NORMA'S VOICE: The ashtray, Joe dear! Can we have the ashtray? Gillis dumps the cigarette butts into the cold fire- place, crosses to the bridge table, puts the ashtray down, leans over and speaks into Norma's ear.
GILLIS: I want to talk to you for a Not now, my dear. I'm playing three no trump.
NORMA: Not now, my dear. I'm playing three no trump.
GILLIS: They've come for my car.
NORMA: Please. Now I've forgotten how many spades are out.
GILLIS: I need some money right now.
NORMA: Can't you wait till I'm dummy?
NORMA: ( Angry by now )
NORMA: Now what is it? Where's the I've lost my car.
GILLIS: I've lost my car.
NORMA: Oh.and I thought it was a matter of life and death.
GILLIS: It is to me. That's why I came to this house. That's why I took this job ghost writing!
NORMA: Now you're being silly. We don't need two cars. We have a car. And not one of thuse cheap new things made of chromium and spit. An Isotta-Fraschini. Have you ever heard of Isotta-Fraschinis? All hand-made. Cost me twenty-eight thousand dollars. THE CAMERA HAS PANNED over to the garage and FOCUSES on the dirty Isotta-Fraschini on its blocks.
NORMA: That's a dreadful shirt you're What's wrong with It?
GILLIS: What's wrong with It?
NORMA: Nothing, if you work in a fill- ing station. And I'm getting rather bored with that sport jacket, and those same baggy Max, what's a good men's shop in town? The very best. Well, go there !
GILLIS: I don't need any clothes, and I certainly don't want you buy- ing them for
NORMA: Why begrudge me a little fun? I just want you to look nice, my stray little boy. By this time Max has made a U-turn.
NORMA: There's nothing like gray flannel with a chalk stripe. This one single-breasted, of course. Now we need a topcoat. Let's see what you have in camel's hair. The salesman leaves.
NORMA: How about some evening clothes?
GILLIS: I don't need a tuxedo.
NORMA: Of course you do. A tuxedo and Tails. That's ridiculous.
GILLIS: Tails. That's ridiculous.
NORMA: You'll need them for parties. You'll need them for New Year's Where are your evening clothes?
SALESMAN: This way, Madame.
SALESMAN: Here are some camel hairs, but I'd like you just to feel this one. It's Vicuna. Of course, it's a little more expensive.
GILLIS: A camel's hair will do.
SALESMAN: ( With an insulting As long as the lady is paying for it, why not take the Vicuna?
SEQUENCE "C": DISSOLVE IN: C-1 LONG SHOT DESMOND HOUSE A day in December. Rain.
GILLIS: Whose room was this?
MAX: It was the room of the husband. Or of the husbands, I should say. Madame has been married three Slightly embarrassed, Gillis picks up his toilet kit with razor, toothbrushes, soap, etc., and starts towards the bathroom, pausing en route at a rain- splattered window.
GILLIS: I guess this is the one you can see Catalina from. Only this isn't the day. He proceeds towards the half-opened door leading to the bathroom. Something strikes his attention and he stops. As in the door to the room above the garage, this lock, too, has been gouged out.
GILLIS: Hey, what's this with the door? There isn't any lock.
MAX: There are no locks anywhere in this house. He points to the entrance door of the room, and to another door.
GILLIS: How come?
MAX: The doctor suggested it.
GILLIS: What doctor?
MAX: Madame's doctor. She has moments of melancholy. There have been some suicide attempts.
GILLIS: We have to be very careful. No sleeping pills, no razor blades. We shut off the gas in her bed- Why? Her career? She got enough out of it. She's not forgotten. She still gets those fan letters.
MAX: We have to be very careful. No sleeping pills, no razor blades. We shut off the gas in her bed- Why? Her career? She got enough out of it. She's not forgotten. She still gets those fan letters.
GILLIS: Why? Her career? She got enough out of it. She's not forgotten. She still gets those fan letters.
MAX: I wouldn't look too closely at the You send them. Is that it, Max?
GILLIS: You send them. Is that it, Max?
MAX: I'd better press your evening clothes, sir. You have not for- gotten Madame's New Year's party.
GILLIS: No, I haven't. I suppose all the waxworks are coming?
MAX: I don't know, sir. Madame made the arrangements. Max leaves. Gillis comes out of the bathroom, picks up his shirts, goes over to a closet, opens it. As he does so one of the doors without a lock swings slightly open. Gillis looks through the half-open door and sees.
NORMA: Joe, you look absolutely divine. Turn around!
GILLIS: ( Embarrassed} Come on!
NORMA: Come on! Gillis makes a slow 36O-degree turn.
NORMA: Perfect. Wonderful shoulders. And I love that line. She indicates the V from his shoulders to his hips.
GILLIS: All padding. Don't let it fool Come here! She puts the gardenia on his lapel.
NORMA: Come here! She puts the gardenia on his lapel.
GILLIS: You know, to me dressing up was always just putting on my dark blue suit.
NORMA: I don't like those studs they've sent. I want you to have pearls. Nice big pearls.
GILLIS: Now, I'm not going to wear ear- rings, I can tell you that.
NORMA: Cute. Let's have some drinks. She leads him over to the buffet.
GILLIS: Shouldn't we wait for the others?
NORMA: ( Pointing at the floor ) Careful, it's slippery. I had it waxed.
NORMA: Here's to us. They drink.
NORMA: You know, this floor used to be wood but I had it changed. Valentino said there is nothing like tiles for a tango. She opens her arms.
GILLIS: Not on the same floor with Just follow me. They start to tango. After a moment
NORMA: Just follow me. They start to tango. After a moment
NORMA: Don't bend back like that.
GILLIS: It's those feathers. They tickle. Norma pulls the paradise feathers from her hair and tosses them away.
GILLIS: It's a quarter past ten. What time are they supposed to get The other guests?
NORMA: The other guests?
GILLIS: The other guests?
NORMA: There are no other guests. We don't want to share this night with other people. This is for you and me.
GILLIS: I understand some rich guy bought up all the tickets for a perfor- mance at the Metropolitan and sat there listening to La Traviata, all by himself. He was afraid of catching cold.
NORMA: Hold me tighter.
GILLIS: Come midnight, how about blind- folding the orchestra and smash- ing champagne glasses on Max's You think this is all very funny.
NORMA: You think this is all very funny.
GILLIS: A little.
NORMA: Is it funny that I'm in love with you?
GILLIS: What's that?
NORMA: I'm in love with you. Don't you know that? I've been in love with you all along. They dance on. Gillis is acutely embarrassed. THE CAMERA SLOWLY PULLS BACK, PANS past the faces of the musicians, who play on with a rather overe- mphasized lack of interest. Finally it winds up on Max, behind the buffet. He stands watching Gillis, a faint trace of pity in his eyes.
GILLIS: Stop it. You aren't going to buy me anything more.
NORMA: Don't be silly. Here. I was going to give it to you at midniglht. Gillis opens the box. It contains a matched gold cigarette case and lighter.
NORMA: Read what's inside. Gillis snaps open the case. Engraved inside the cover is: TO JOE FROM NORMA, and two bars of What are the notes?
GILLIS: What are the notes?
NORMA: "Mad about the boy."
GILLIS: Norma, I can't take it. You've bought me enough.
NORMA: Shut up. I'm rich. I'm richer than all this new Hollywood trash. I've got a million dollars.
GILLIS: Keep it.
NORMA: I own three blocks downtown. I have oil in Bakersfield pumping, pumping, pumping. What's it for but to buy us anything we want.
GILLIS: Cut out that us business. He rises.
NORMA: What's the matter with you?
GILLIS: What right do you have to take me for granted?
NORMA: What right? Do you want me to tell you?
GILLIS: Has it ever occurred that I may have a life of my own? That there may be some girl I'm crazy about?
NORMA: Who? Some car hop, or a dress Why not? What I'm trying to say is that I'm all wrong for you. You want a Valentino somebody with polo ponies a big shot
GILLIS: Why not? What I'm trying to say is that I'm all wrong for you. You want a Valentino somebody with polo ponies a big shot
NORMA: ( Getting up slowly ) What you're trying to say is that you don't want me to love you. Is that it?
ARTIE: Well, what do you know ! Joe Gillis !
GILLIS: Hi, Artie.
ARTIE: Where have you been keeping that gorgeous face of yours?
GILLIS: In a deep freeze.
ARTIE: I almost reported you to the Bureau of Missing Persons. Fans, you all know Joe Gillis, the well-known screen writer, opium smuggler and Black Dahlia suspect. Gillis greets some of the kids by name as he and Artie push their way into the room.
ARTIE: Give me your coat.
GILLIS: Let it ride for a while.
ARTIE: You're going to stay, aren't you?
GILLIS: That was the general idea.
ARTIE: Come on. Artie starts peeling the coat off Gillis. Its texture takes his breath away.
ARTIE: What is this - mink? He has taken the coat. He looks at Gillis standing there in tails.
ARTIE: Judas E. Priest, who did you borrow that from? Adolphe Close, but no cigar. Gillis stands embarrassed While Artie rolls up the Vicuna coat and tucks it above the books on a book- Say, you're not really smuggling opium these days, are you?
GILLIS: Close, but no cigar. Gillis stands embarrassed While Artie rolls up the Vicuna coat and tucks it above the books on a book- Say, you're not really smuggling opium these days, are you?
ARTIE: Say, you're not really smuggling opium these days, are you?
GILLIS: Where's the bar? The two make their way toward the punch bowl. It's a little like running the gauntlet for Gillis. There are whistles and 'stares of astonishlnent at his tails. When they reach the punch bowl, Artie picks up a half-filled glass and fills it.
GILLIS: Good party.
ARTIE: The greatest. They call me the Elsa Maxwell of the assistant directors. Hey, easy on the punch bowl. Budget only calls for three drinks per extra. Fake the rest.
GILLIS: Listen, Artie, can I stick around here for a while?
ARTIE: Sure, this'll go on all night.
GILLIS: I mean, could you put me up for a couple of weeks?
ARTIE: It just so happens we have a vacancy on the couch.
GILLIS: I'll take it.
ARTIE: I'll have the bell-hop take care of your luggage. He runs his finger across the decollete back of a girl standing in a group next them.
ARTIE: Just register here. The girl turns around. She is Betty Schaefer.
BETTY: Hello, Mr. Gillis.
ARTIE: You know each other? Gillis looks at her a little puzzled.
BETTY: Let me help you. Betty Schaeter, Sheldrake's office.
GILLIS: Sure. Bases Loaded.
ARTIE: Wait a minute. This is the woman I love. What's going on? Who was loaded?
GILLIS: Don't worry. She's just a fan for my literary output.
BETTY: ( to Artie ) Hurt feelings department.
GILLIS: About that luggage. Where's the phone?
ARTIE: Over by the Rainbow Room. Gillis squeezes his way through groups of people to the telephone, which is next to an open door leading to the bathroom. The phone is busy. A girl sits listening to it, giggling wildly. Another girl beside her is laughing too. They are apparently sharing a conversation with some man on the other end of the wire. The telephone passes from hand to hand. Gillis watches impatiently, then
GILLIS: When youlre through with that thing, can I have it? The girl just nods, going on with her chattering. Gillis stands waiting, and Betty Schaefer comes up with his glass.
BETTY: You forgot this.
GILLIS: I've been hoping to run into you.
BETTY: I've been hoping to run into you.
GILLIS: What for? To recover that knife you stuck in my back?
BETTY: I felt a little guilty, so I got out some of your old stories.
GILLIS: Why, you sweet kid.
BETTY: There's one called..Window. something with a window.
GILLIS: Dark Windows. How did you like it?
BETTY: I didn't.
GILLIS: Thank you.
BETTY: Except for about six pages. You've got a flashback there . There is too much racket for her.
BETTY: Is there someplace we can talk?
GILLIS: How about the Rainbow Room? They squeeze their way towards the bathroom, past I said you could have my couch. I didn't say you could have my This is shop talk. She and Gillis go through the open door into
ARTIE: I said you could have my couch. I didn't say you could have my This is shop talk. She and Gillis go through the open door into
BETTY: This is shop talk. She and Gillis go through the open door into
GILLIS: Now if I got you correctly, there was a short stretch of my fiction you found worthy of notice.
BETTY: The flashback in the courtroom, when she tells about being a school teacher.
GILLIS: I had a teacher like that once.
BETTY: Maybe that's why it's good. It's true, it's moving. Now why don't you use that character.
GILLIS: Who wants true? Who wants moving?
BETTY: Drop that attitude. Here's some- thing really worth while.
GILLIS: Want me to start right now? Maybe there's some paper around.
BETTY: I'm serious. I've got a few ideas.
GILLIS: I've got some ideas myself. One of them being this is New Year's Eve. How about living it up a As for instance?
BETTY: As for instance?
GILLIS: We could make some paper boats and have a regatta. Or should we just turn on the shower?
BETTY: We could make some paper boats and have a regatta. Or should we just turn on the shower?
GILLIS: How about capturing the kitchen and barricading the door?
BETTY: Are you hungry?
GILLIS: Hungry? After twelve years in the Burmese jungle. I am starving, Lady Agatha starving for a white shoulder
BETTY: Phillip, you're mad! One of the girls who was on the phone comes to the door.
GIRL: You can have the phone now.
GILLIS: ( Paying no attention ) Thirsting for the coolness of your lips -
BETTY: No, Phillip, no. We must be strong. You're still wearing the uniform of the Coldstream Guards! Furthermore, you can have the phone now.
GILLIS: ( He gets up, starts I find I'm terribly afraid of losing you.
BETTY: You won't. I'll get us a refill of this awful stuff.
GILLIS: You'll be waiting for me?
BETTY: With a wildly beating heart.
GILLIS: Life can be beautiful! He leaves.
GILLIS: Max? This is Mr. Gillis. I want you to do me a favor.
MAX: I am sorry, Mr. Gillis. I cannot talk now.
GILLIS: Yes you can. I want you to get my old suitcase and I want you to throw in my old clothes the ones I came with, and my typewriter. I'll have somebody pick them up.
MAX: I have no time to talk. The doctor is here.
GILLIS: What doctor? What's going on?
MAX: She got the razor from your room. She cut her wrists. Max hangs up, moves toward the staircase.
GILLIS: Max ! Max ! He hangs up the dead receiver, stands numb with shock. Betty elbows her way up to him, carrying the two punch glasses filled again.
BETTY: I just got the recipe: take two packages of cough drops, dissolve in one gallon of lukewarm grape juice Gillis looks up at her. Without a word he pushes her aside so that she spills the drink. He makes his way through the guests to the Vicuna coat, pulls it from the shelf, some books tumbling with it, and rushes towards the door and out. Betty stands look- ing after him, completely bewildered.
GILLIS: How is she?
MAX: She is upstairs. Gillis starts to push past Max. Max grabs his arm.
MAX: Be careful. Do not race up the stairs. The musicians must not know what has happened. Gillis goes into the house.
NORMA: Go away.
GILLIS: What kind of a silly thing was that to do?
NORMA: To fall in love with you that was the idiotic thing.
GILLIS: It sure would have made attractive headlines: Great Star Kills Her- self for Unknown Writer.
NORMA: Great stars have great pride. She puts one bandaged forearm over her eyes, sobbing. Gillis walks slowly over to the mantelpiece, stands there for awhile.
NORMA: Go away. Go to that girl of yours.
GILLIS: Look, I was making that up because I thought the whole thing was a mistake. I didn't want to hurt you. You've been good to me. You're the only person in this stinking town that has been good to me.
NORMA: Why don't you just say thank you and go, go, go
GILLIS: Not until you promise to act like a sensible human being.
NORMA: I'll do it again, I'll do it again, I'll do it again! Gillis stands looking at her helplessly.
GILLIS: Happy New Year. Norma continues to sob. Gillis goes to the bed, puts his arms on her shoulders and turns her around.
GILLIS: Happy New Year. Norma looks at him, tears in her eyes. Slowly she enfolds him in her bandaged arms.
NORMA: Happy New Year. darling. She kisses him.
DISSOLVE: END OF SEQUENCE "C" DISSOLVE IN ON: DESMOND'S HOUSE ( DAY ) Around the middle of May The telephone is heard which I think I should tell ringing. Max comes from you about. living room to the phone, picks it up.
SEQUENCE "D": DISSOLVE IN ON: D-1 INT. HALLWAY, NORMA GILLIS' VOICE DESMOND'S HOUSE ( DAY ) Around the middle of May The telephone is heard which I think I should tell ringing. Max comes from you about. living room to the phone, picks it up.
MAX: Hello . Yes?
READERS' DEPARTMENT: Is this Crestview 5-1733? . I'm sorry to bother you again, but I've confirmed the number. I must speak to Mr. Gillis.
BETTY: Is this Crestview 5-1733? . I'm sorry to bother you again, but I've confirmed the number. I must speak to Mr. Gillis.
MAX: He is not here.
BETTY: Where can I reach him? Maybe somebody else in the house could tell me.
MAX: Nobody here can give you any information. You will please not call again. He hangs up. From off comes:
NORMA'S VOICE: Who was it, Max? What is it? It is a sunny day. The garden is in somewhat better shape. The old house looks less unkept. The pool is filled. Norma sits on a wicker chaise longue, her face shielded by an enormous straw hat, her eyes by dark glasses. Gillis, in bathing trunks, is on a rubber mattress in the pool. Max comes to the entrance door.
MAX: Nothing, Madame. Somebody Inqu- iring about a stray dog. We must have a number very similar to the He starts to turn back.
NORMA: Wait a minute. I want you to get out the car. You're going to take the script over to Paramount and deliver it to Mr. De Mille in Yes, Madame. He goes into the house.
MAX: Yes, Madame. He goes into the house.
GILLIS: ( climbing out You're really going to send it to De Mille?
NORMA: This is the right day. She indicates a typewritten letter she is holding. The chart from my astrologer. She read deMille's horoscope. She read mine.
GILLIS: Did she read the script?
NORMA: DeMille is Leo. I'm Scorpio. Mars has been transmitting Jupiter for weeks. Today is the day of greatest conjuction. Now turn around. Let me dry She puts the towel around his sholders and starts drying him.
GILLIS: I hope you realize, Norma, that scripts don't sell on astrologers' charts.
NORMA: I'm not just selling the script. I'm selling me. DeMille always said I was his greatest star.
GILLIS: When did he say it, Norma?
NORMA: So he said it quite a few years ago. So what? I never looked better in my life. Do you know why? Because I've never been as happy in my life. She kisses him.
NORMA: That idiot. He forgot to fill my cigarette case.
GILLIS: ( Proffering his case ) Have one of mine.
NORMA: They're awful. They make me cough.
GILLIS: ( Pushing open the glass Pull up at the drugstore, will you, Max. ( To Norma ) I'll get you some.
NORMA: You're a darling. She takes a dollar bill from her purse and gives it to him.
GILLIS: ( To the salesgirl ) Give me a pack of those Turkish cigarettes Melachrinos.
ARTIE'S VOICE: Stick 'em up, Gillis, or I'll let you have it! Gillis turns.
GILLIS: Hello, Artie. Good evening, Miss Schaefer.
BETTY: ( Excitedly ) You don't know how glad I am to see youl
ARTIE: Walking out on the mob. What's the big idea?
GILLIS: I'm sorry about New Year's. Would you believe me if I said I had to be with a sick friend?
ARTIE: Someone in the formal set, no doubt, with a ten-carat kidney Stop it, Artie, will you? Where have you been keeping your- self? I've got the most wonderful news for you.
BETTY: Stop it, Artie, will you? Where have you been keeping your- self? I've got the most wonderful news for you.
GILLIS: I haven't been keeping myself at all. Not lately.
BETTY: I called your agent. I called the Screen Writers Guild. Finally your old apartment gave me some Crestview number. There was always somebody with an accent growling at me. You were not there. You were not to be spoken to. They never heard of you.
GILLIS: Is that so? What's the wonderful Sheldrake likes that angle about the teacher.
BETTY: Sheldrake likes that angle about the teacher.
GILLIS: What teacher?
BETTY: Dark Windows. I got him all hopped up about it.
GILLIS: You did?
BETTY: He thinks it could be made into Into what? A lampshade?
GILLIS: Into what? A lampshade?
BETTY: Into something for Barbara Stan- wyck. They have a commitment with Barbara Stanwyck.
ARTIE: Unless you'd rather have Sarah This is on the level. Sheldrake really went for it.
BETTY: This is on the level. Sheldrake really went for it.
GILLIS: O.K. Where's the cash?
BETTY: Where's the story? I bluffed it out with a few notions of my own. It's really just a springboard. It needs work.
GILLIS: I was afraid of that.
BETTY: I've got twenty pages of notes. I've got a pretty good character for the man.
ARTIE: Could you write in plenty of back- ground action, so they'll need an extra assistant director?
BETTY: Shut up, Artie. Now if we could sit down for two weeks and get a story.
GILLIS: Sorry, Miss Schaefer, but I've given up writing on spec.
BETTY: I tell you this is half sold.
GILLIS: As a matter of fact. I've given up writing altogether.
MAX: Mr. Gillis, if you please.
GILLIS: Right with you. Max leaves.
ARTIE: The accent! I've got it: this guy is in the pay of a foreign government. Get those studs. Get those cuff-links.
GILLIS: I've got to run along. Thanks any- way for your interest in my career.
BETTY: It's not your career it's mine. I kind of hoped to get in on this deal. I don't want to be a reader all my life. I want to write.
GILLIS: Sorry if I crossed you up.
BETTY: You sure have.
GILLIS: So long. He leaves.
ARTIE: ( Patting her hand ) Babe, it's like that producer says: In life, you've got to take the bitter with the sour.
NORMA: What on earth, darling? It took you hours.
GILLIS: I ran into some people I knew.
NORMA: Where are my cigarettes?
GILLIS: Where are your.? He realizes he's forgotten them, takes the dollar and hands it back to her.
GILLIS: Norma, you're smoking too much.
DESMOND'S HOUSE: ( EARLY AFTERNOON ) Start on a tiny GILLIS' VOICE parasol being Whenever she suspected I twirled.Norma was getting bored, she peeks out from one would put on a live show side of the parasol, for me: the Norma Desmond a bandanna tied Follies. Her first number around her head with was always the Mack Sennett a rabbit's-ear bow. Bathing Beauty. She bats her eyes, winks roguishly. THE CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal that Norma's black pyjama trousers are rolled up over her knees and her black stockings rolled down below them. The whole effect approximates a Mack Sennett bathing costume pretty effectively. She points at a leather pour.
NORMA: This is a rock. She climbs on it, pantomimes timidity, an attempted dive, then jumps off. Gillis lolls on a couch, watching the performance, very bored.
NORMA: I can still see myself in the line: Bebe Daniels, Marie Prevost, Mabel Normand . Mabel was always stepping on my feet .What's the matter with you, darling? Why are you so glum?
GILLIS: ( Lighting a cigarette Nothing is the matter. I'm having a great time. Show me some more.
NORMA: ( Taking the match ) All right. Give me this. I need it for a moustache. Now close your eyes.
NORMA'S VOICE: Open your eyes. Gillis opens his eyes. Norma has equipped herselr with a derby hat, a cane, and blacked in a small moustache. She goes into a little Chaplin routine. While she is doing it, the telephone rings. After a moment Max comes to the living room door.
MAX: Madame is wanted on the telephone.
NORMA: You know better than to interrupt me.
MAX: Paramount is calling.
NORMA: Paramount studios.
MAX: Paramount studios.
NORMA: ( To Gillis ) Now, now do you belive me? I told you deMille would jump at it.
MAX: It is not Mr. deMille in person. It is someone by the name or Gordon Cole. He says it's very important.
NORMA: Certainly it's important. It's important enough for Mr. deMille to call me personally. The idea of having an assistant call me!
MAX: I myself was surprised at Mr. de Mille's manners.
NORMA: Say that I'm busy, and hang up.
MAX: Very good, Madam. He bows and exits.
NORMA: How do you like that? We've made twelve pictures together. His greatest successes.
GILLIS: Maybe deMille is shooting.
NORMA: I know that trick! He wants to belittle me. He's trying to get my price down. I've waited twenty years for this call. Now Mr. deMille can wait till I'm good and ready.
MAX: If you will pardon me, Madame. The shadow over the left eye is not quite balanced.
NORMA: Thank you, Max. With a handkerchief, she corrects it.
YOUNG POLICEMAN: Hold that noise!
MAX: To see Mr. de Mille. Open the gate.
YOUNG POLICEMAN: Mr. deMille is shooting. You got an appointment?
MAX: No appointment is necessary. I am bringing Norma Desmond.
YOUNG POLICEMAN: Norma Who? Norma has rolled down the window on her side. She calls to the old policeman.
NORMA: Jonesy! Come here, Jonesy!
OLD POLICEMAN: ( He comes forward slowly ) Why, if it isn't Miss Desmond! How have you been, Miss Desmond?
NORMA: Fine, Jonesy. Now open that gate.
OLD POLICEMAN: Sure, Miss Desmond. Come on, Mac.
YOUNG POLICEMAN: They can't drive on the lot without a pass.
OLD POLICEMAN: Miss Desmond can. Come on. They fling open the gate.
OLD POLICEMAN: ( As the car drives through ) Stage eighteen, Miss Desmond.
NORMA: Thank you, Jonesy. And teach your friend some manners. Tell him without me he wouldn't have any job, because without me there wouldn't be any Paramount Studio. Go on. They drive through the gates. The old policeman goes to wall phone beside the gate, dials a number.
OLD POLICEMAN: ( Into phone ) Norma Desmond coming in to see Mr. deMille.
STAGE HAND: Norma Desmond is coming to see Mr. deMille. The second assistant walks ( CAMERA WITH HIM ) to the first assistant. Norma Desmond coming in to see Mr. deMille. The first assistant ( CAMERA WITH HIM ) hurries to the set. Sitting with his back toward us is C.B. himself. He is rehearsing a scene with Hedy Lamarr.
1ST ASSISTANT: Norma Desmond is coming in to see you, Mr. deMille. C. B. turns his head.
DEMILLE: Norma Desmond? She must be a million years old.
DEMILLE: I hate to think where that puts me. I could be her father.
1ST ASSISTANT: I'm terribly sorry, Mr. de Mille. By this time de Mille is on his feet.
DEMILLE: It must be about that appalling script of hers. What can I say to her? What can I say?
1ST ASSISTANT: I can tell her you're all tied up in the projection room. I can give her the brush .
DEMILLE: Listen, thirty million fans have given her the brush. Isn't that enough?
1ST ASSISTANT: I didn't mean to
DEMILLE: Of course you didn't. You didn't know Norma Desmond as a plucky little girl of seventeen, with more courage and wit and heart than ever came together in one I hear she was a terror to work with.
1ST ASSISTANT: I hear she was a terror to work with.
DEMILLE: She got to be. A dozen press agents working overtime can do terrible things to the human Hold everything. He leaves, accompanied by his entourage.
NORMA: ( taking Gillis's hand ) Don't you want to come along, I don't think so. It's your script. It's your show. Good luck.
GILLIS: I don't think so. It's your script. It's your show. Good luck.
NORMA: Thank you, darling. She presses his hand against her cheek, descends from the car and walks toward -
DE MILLE: Hello, young fellow.
NORMA: Hello, Mr. deMille. She has reached him. They embrace.
NORMA: Last time I saw you was someplace very gay. I remember waving to you. I was dancing on a table.
DE MILLE: Lots of people were. Lindbergh had just landed in Paris. Come on in. He leads her into
DE MILLE: Norma, I want to apologize for not calling you.
NORMA: You'd better. I'm very angry.
DE MILLE: I'm pretty busy, as you can see.
NORMA: That's no excuse. You read the script, didn't you?
DE MILLE: Yes, I did.
NORMA: Then you could have picked up the phone yourself instead of leaving it to one of your assistants.
DE MILLE: What assistant?
NORMA: Don't play innocent. Somebody named Gordon Cole.
DE MILLE: Gordon Cole?
NORMA: And if you hadn't been pretty darned interested in that script, he wouldn't have tried to get me on the phone ten times.
DE MILLE: Gordon Cole. Look, Norma, I'm in the middle of a rehearsal. Make yourself comfortable. He walks onto the set, accompanied by his assistants.
DE MILLE: ( Sotto voce, to his Get me Gordon Cole on the phone.
A VOICE: Hey, Miss Desmond! Miss Desmond! She looks around her.
VOICE: Up here! Norma looks up at the scaffolding. On the scaffold stands one of the electricians, next to his light.
ELECTRICIAN: It's met It's Hog-eyel Norma waves at him.
NORMA: Hog-eye points his light at her.
EXTRAS: Say, it's Norma! Norma Desmond! They rush over and start wringing her hand. Into the shot comes a middle-aged hairdresser.
HAIRDRESSER: Hello, Miss Desmond. It's Bessie. Some elderly electricians and stagehands move in.
DE MILLE: D-15 GORDON COLE'S OFFICE IN THE PROPERTY DEPARTMENT,
COLE: Prop Department. Gordon Cole speaking.
DE MILLE: Cole, this is C. B. deMille. Have you been calling Norma Desmond?. What's it about?
COLE: It's that car of hers an old Isotta-Fraschini. Her chauffeur drove it on the lot the other day. It looks just right for the Crosby picture. We want to rent it for a couple of weeks.
DE MILLE: ( Troubled ) Oh. Well, thank you.
DE MILLE: Well, Norma . I got hold of Gordon Cole. Norma hasn't heard a word.
NORMA: Did you see them? Did you see how they came?
DE MILLE: You know, crazy things happen in this business. I hope you haven't lost your sense of humor . Suddenly he realizes that she is crying. She takes the handkerchief from his pocket and puts it over her What's the matter, Norma?
DEMILLE: What's the matter, Norma?
NORMA: Nothing. I just didn't realize what it would be like to come back to the old studio. I had no idea how I'd missed it.
DEMILLE: We've missed you too, dear.
NORMA: We'll be working again, won't we, Chief? We'll make our greatest picture.
DEMILLE: That's what I want to talk to you about.
NORMA: It's a good script, isn't it?
DEMILLE: It's got a lot of good things. Of course, it would be an expensive picture.
NORMA: I don't care about the money. I just want to work again. You don't know what it means to know that you want me.
DEMILLE: Nothing would thrill me more if it were possible.
NORMA: But remember, darling I don't work before ten in the morning, and never after 4:30 in the afternoon. The first assistant comes up.
1ST ASSISTANT: We're ready with the shot, Mr. deMille.
DEMILLE: You'll pardon me, Norma? Why don't you just sit and watch? O.K. Here we go.
1ST ASSISTANT: Roll 'em.
DEMILLE: The scene starts.
MAX: ( Pointing to the row You see those offices there, Mr. Gillis? They used to be her dressing room, The whole row.
GILLIS: That didn't leave much for Wallace He had a great big bungalow on wheels. I had the upstairs. See where it says 'Readers' Department'? I remember my walls were covered with black patent leather. The words "Readers' Department" have registered on Gillis' mind. He gets out of the car.
MAX: He had a great big bungalow on wheels. I had the upstairs. See where it says 'Readers' Department'? I remember my walls were covered with black patent leather. The words "Readers' Department" have registered on Gillis' mind. He gets out of the car.
GILLIS: I'll be with you in a minute. He crosses the street towards the green staircase leading to the second floor. Meanwhile, two prop men walking down the street come into the SHOT.
MAX: Go away. Go away.
GILLIS: Just so you don't think I'm a complete swine if there's anything in Dark Windows you can use, take it. It's all Well, for heaven's sake! She moves the book and the apple aside and points at the free space on the desk.
BETTY: Well, for heaven's sake! She moves the book and the apple aside and points at the free space on the desk.
BETTY: Have a chair. Gillis sits on the desk.
GILLIS: I mean it. It's no good to me anyway. Help yourself.
BETTY: Why should you do that?
GILLIS: If you get a hundred thousand for it, you buy me a box of chocolate creams. If you get an Oscar, I get the left foot.
BETTY: You know, I'd take you up on that in a minute. I'm just not good enough to do it all by myself.
GILLIS: What about all those ideas you had?
BETTY: See if they make sense. To begin with, I think you should throw out all that psychological stuff exploring a killer's sick mind.
GILLIS: Psychopaths sell like hotcakes.
BETTY: This story is about teachers their threadbare lives, their struggles. Here are people doing the most important job in the world, and they have to wprry about getting enough money to re-sole their shoes. To me it can be as exciting as any chase, any gunplay.
GILLIS: Now I see her teaching day classes while he teaches night school. The first time they meet . From below comes the SOUND of the Isotta's horn.
BETTY: Now I see her teaching day classes while he teaches night school. The first time they meet . From below comes the SOUND of the Isotta's horn.
GILLIS: Look, if you don't mind, I haven't got time to listen to the whole plot .
BETTY: I'll make it short.
GILLIS: Sorry. It's your baby now.
BETTY: I'm not good enough to write it alone. We'll have to do it together.
GILLIS: I'm all tied up. I can't.
BETTY: Couldn't we work in the evenings? Six o'clock in the morning? This next month I'm completely at your disposal. Artie is out of town.
GILLIS: What has Artie to do with it.
BETTY: We're engaged.
GILLIS: Good for you. You've got yourself the best guy in town.
BETTY: I think so. They're on location in Arizona, shooting a Western. I'm free every evening, every week- end. If you want, we could work at your place.
GILLIS: It's just impossible.
BETTY: Nobody can be that busy. There is another honk: from down below.
GILLIS: Look, Betty, It can't be done. It's out.
BETTY: You're tough, all right.
GILLIS: You're on your own. Stop being chicken-hearted and write that story.
BETTY: Honest to goodness, I hate you.
GILLIS: ( Turning 1n the open door ) And don't make it too dreary. How about this for a situation: she teaches daytimes. He teaches at night. Right? They don't even know each other, but they share the same room. It's cheaper that way. As a matter of fact, they sleep in the same bed in shifts, of oourse.
BETTY: Are you kidding? Because I think it's good.
GILLIS: So do I.
BETTY: Came on back. Let me show you where it fits in. She reaches in a drawer for her notes on Dark So long. Betty picks up the apple and is about to throw it after him.
GILLIS: ( At the door ) So long.
BETTY: Oh, you
GILLIS: And here's a title: AN APPLE FOR
GILLIS: What's the matter, Max?
MAX: I just found out why all those tele- phone calls. It is not Miss Desmond they want. It is the car they want to rent.
GILLIS: Max has seen something off.
MAX: With his head he indicates
DE MILLE: Goodbye, young fellow. We'll see what we can do.
NORMA: ( embracing him ) I'm not worried. Everything will be fine. The old team together. Nothing can stop us.
DE MILLE: Get Gordon Cole. Tell him to forget about her car. He can find another old car. I'll buy him five old cars, if necessary.
1ST ASSISTANT: Yes, Mr. De Mille. They turn back into Stage 18.
GILLIS: ( Apprehensively ) How did it go?
NORMA: It couldn't have gone better. It's practically set. Of course, he has to finish this picture first, but mine will be his next. There is an exchange of looks between Max and Gillis.
GILLIS: He must be quite a guy.
NORMA: He'a a shrewd old fox. He can smell box office. Only I'm going to outfox him a litt1e. This isn't going to be C. B. deMille's Salome. It's going to be Norma Desmond's Salome, a Norma Desmond Production, starring Norma Desmond.Home, Max.
MAX: Yes, Miss Desmond. As he says the words, he and Gillis exchange a glance in the rear view mirror.
SEQUENCE "E": DISSOLVE IN ON: E-1 CLOSEUP OF NORMA'S FACE Absolutely no makeup. A After that, an army of hand with a strong small beauty experts invaded flashlight comes into the her house on Sunset picture. The beam of the Boulevard. She went flashlight travels over the through a merciless face, exploring it merci- series of treatments, lessly. While the light is massages, sweat cabinets, still on it, two pairs of mud baths, ice compres- creamed hands come into the ses, electric devices. shot and start to massage it. She lived on vegetable DISSOLVE TO: at nine. She was deter- E-2 A SHORT MONTAGE of various that would never turn. beauty treatments applied to Norma.
GILLIS' VOICE: Absolutely no makeup. A After that, an army of hand with a strong small beauty experts invaded flashlight comes into the her house on Sunset picture. The beam of the Boulevard. She went flashlight travels over the through a merciless face, exploring it merci- series of treatments, lessly. While the light is massages, sweat cabinets, still on it, two pairs of mud baths, ice compres- creamed hands come into the ses, electric devices. shot and start to massage it. She lived on vegetable DISSOLVE TO: at nine. She was deter- E-2 A SHORT MONTAGE of various that would never turn. beauty treatments applied to Norma.
NORMA: Joe darling, are you there?
GILLIS: Yes, Norma. Through the slit in the door there is a suggestion of Norma.
NORMA: Don't turn around. Keep your eyes on the book.
GILLIS: Yes, Norma. Norma pushes the door open and comes in.
NORMA: I just came to say good night. I don't want you to see me I'm not very attractive.
GILLIS: Good night.
NORMA: I've lost half a pound since I was a little worried about the line of my throat. This woman has done wonders with it.
GILLIS: I was a little worried about the line of my throat. This woman has done wonders with it.
NORMA: I was a little worried about the line of my throat. This woman has done wonders with it.
GILLIS: You'd better get to bed yourself.
NORMA: You'd better get to bed yourself.
GILLIS: I think I'll read a little.
NORMA: You went out last night, didn't you, Joe?
GILLIS: Why do you say that?
NORMA: I just happen to know it. I had a nightmare and I screamed for you. You weren't here. Where were you?
GILLIS: I went for a walk.
NORMA: No you didn't. You took the All right, I drove to the beach. Norma, you don't want me to feel I'm locked up in this house?
GILLIS: All right, I drove to the beach. Norma, you don't want me to feel I'm locked up in this house?
NORMA: Of course not, Joe. It's just that I don't want to be left alone. Not now, while I'm under this terrible strain. My nerves are being torn apart. All I ask is for you to be a little patient and a little kind.
GILLIS: I haven't done anything, Norma.
NORMA: Of course you haven't. I wouldn't let you. She bends and kisses the top of his head.
NORMA: Good night, my darling. She goes into her room, shutting the door behind her. Gillis puts his book down and looks at her door.
BETTY: I got the funniest letter from Artie. It's rained every day since they got to Arizona. They re-wrote the whole picture for rain and shot half of it. Now the sun is out. Nobody knows when they'll get back. She moves back into the room.
GILLIS: What's good about it? I miss him something fierce.
BETTY: What's good about it? I miss him something fierce.
GILLIS: I mean this is good dialogue along in here. It'll play.
BETTY: It will?
GILLIS: Sure. Especially with lots of music underneath, drowning it out.
BETTY: Don't you sometimes hate yourself?
GILLIS: Constantly. No, in all serious- ness, it's really good. It's fun writing again. I'm happy here, honest I am. He resumes typing. Betty puts the water on. She picks up a pack of cigarettes on the desk, finds it's empty and throws it away, sees Gillis' open gold cigarette case and lighter on the table by the couch. Betty reaches for a cigarette. The inscription en- graved inside the case catches her eye. It reads:
BETTY: Who's Norma?
GILLIS: Who's who?
BETTY: I'm sorry. I don't usually read private cigarette cases.
GILLIS: Oh, that. It's from a friend of mine. A middle-aged lady, very foolish and very generous.
BETTY: I'll say. This is solid gold.
GILLIS: I gave her some advice on an idiotic script.
BETTY: It's that old familiar story, you help a timid little soul across a crowded street. She turns out to be a multimillionaire and leaves you all her money.
GILLIS: That's the trouble with you readers. You know all the plots. Now suppose you proof-read page ten while the water boils.
BETTY: Look at this street. All card- board, all hollow, all phoney. All done with mirrors. I like it better than any street in the world. Maybe because I used to play here when I was a kid.
GILLIS: What were you a child actress?
BETTY: I was born just two blocks from this studio. Right on Lemon Grove Avenue. Father was head elec- trician here till he died. Mother still works in Wardrobe.
GILLIS: Second generation, huh?
BETTY: Third. Grandma did stunt work for Pearl White. I come from a picture family. Naturally they took it for granted I was to become a great star. So I had ten years of dramatic lessons, diction, dancing. Then the studio made a test. Well, they didn't like my nose it slanted this way a little. I went to a doctor and had it fixed. They made more tests, and they were crazy about my nose only they didn't like my acting.
GILLIS: ( Examining her nose Nice job.
BETTY: Should be. It cost three hundred Saddest thing I ever heard.
GILLIS: Saddest thing I ever heard.
BETTY: Not at all. It taught me a little sense. I got me a job in the mail room, worked up to the Stenographic. Now I'm a reader.
GILLIS: Come clean, Betty. At night you weep for those lost closeups, those gala openings.
BETTY: Not once. What's wrong with being on the other side of the cameras? It's really more fun.
GILLIS: Three cheers for Betty Schaefer! I will now kiss that nose of yours.
BETTY: If you please. Gillis kisses her nose. As he stands there, his face close to hers -
GILLIS: May I say you smell real special.
BETTY: It must be my new shampoo.
GILLIS: That's no shampoo. It'smore like a pile of freehly laundred hand- kerchiefs, like a brand new auto- mobile. How old are you anyway?
BETTY: That's it there's nothing like being twenty-two. Now may I suggest that if we're ever to finish this story you keep at least two feet away from me . Now back to the They start walking in the direction of the office.
GILLIS: That's it there's nothing like being twenty-two. Now may I suggest that if we're ever to finish this story you keep at least two feet away from me . Now back to the They start walking in the direction of the office.
GILLIS: What is it, Max? Want to wash the car, or are you doing a little spying in your off hours?
MAX: You must be very careful as you cross the patio. Madame may be How about my going up the kitchen stairs and undressing in the dark. Will that do it?
GILLIS: How about my going up the kitchen stairs and undressing in the dark. Will that do it?
MAX: I'm not inquiring where Mr. Gillis goes every night.
GILLIS: Why don't you? I'm writing a script and I'm dying to finish it, no matter what.
MAX: It's just that I'm very worried about Madame.
GILLIS: Sure you are. And we're not help- ing her any, feeding her lies and more lies. Getting herself ready for a pioture . What happens when she finds out?
MAX: She never will. That is my job. It has been for a long time. You must understand I discovered her when she was eighteen. I made her a star. I cannot let her be destroyed.
GILLIS: You made her a star?
MAX: I directed all her early pictures. There were three young directors who showed promise in those days: D.W. Grirrith, C.B. deMille, and Max von Mayerling.
GILLIS: And she's turned you into a It was I who asked to come back, humiliating as it may seem. I could have gone on witn my career, only I found everything unendur- able arter she divorced me. You see, I was her rirst husband.
MAX: It was I who asked to come back, humiliating as it may seem. I could have gone on witn my career, only I found everything unendur- able arter she divorced me. You see, I was her rirst husband.
NORMA: You're here, Joe . When did you come home? Where were you? Is it a woman? I know it's a woman . Who is she? Oh Joe, why can't I ask you? I must know, I must! Her eyes fall on Gillis' coat, which hangs over a chair. In a pocket is part of the script. Norma takes it out, looks at it. She can't see it in the moonlight. She hurries with it into:
GILLIS: Hey, what's the matter. Betty, wake up! Why are you staring at me like that?
BETTY: Was I? I'm sorry.
GILLIS: What's wrong with you tonight? What is it, Betty?
BETTY: Something came up. I don't want to talk about it.
GILLIS: Why not?
BETTY: I just don't.
GILLIS: What is it you've heard. Come on, let's have it. Betty gets up.
GILLIS: Is it about me? Betty doesn't answer, walks out on
GILLIS: Betty, there's no use running out on it. Let's face it, what- ever it is.
BETTY: It's nothing. I got a telegram from Artie.
GILLIS: From Artie. What's wrong?
BETTY: He wants me to come on to Arizona. He says it only oosts two dollars to get married there. It would kind of save us a honeymoon.
GILLIS: Why don't you? We can finish the script by Thursday. Betty stands crying silently.
GILLIS: Stop crying. You're getting married. That's what you've always wanted.
BETTY: I don't want it now.
GILLIS: Why not? Don't you love Artie?
BETTY: Of course I love him. I always will. I'm just not in love with him any more.
GILLIS: What happened?
BETTY: You did. There is a moment's pause before he takes her in his arms. THE CAMERA MOVES AWAY.
NORMA'S VOICE: Is this Gladstone 0858?
NORMA: Can I speak to Miss Betty Schaefer? She must be home by Connie, a girl of Betty's age with whom she shares the flat, is on the phone. Betty, in a dressing- gown, comes from the bathroom, toothbrush in hand.
CONNIE: ( Hand over mouthpiece ) Betty, here's that weird-sounding woman again.
BETTY: What is this anyway? This is Betty Schaefer.
NORMA: Miss Schaefer, you must forgive me for calling you so late, but I really feel it's my duty. It's about Mr. Gillis. You do know Mr. Gillis? .Exactly how much do you know about him? Do you know where he lives? Do you know how he lives? Do you know what he lives on?
BETTY: Who are you? What do you want? What business is it of yours Miss Schaefer, I'm trying to do you a favor. I'm trying to spare you a great deal of misery. Of course you may be too young to even suspect there are men of his sort. I don't know what he's told you, but he does not live with relatives, nor with friends, in the usual sense of the word. Ask him . Ask him again. During the latter part of her call, the doors from Gillis' room have been pushed open and Gillis has walked towards her. Suddenly Norma senses his pre- sence and turns around. The telephone freezes in her hand. She tries to hang it up. Very calmly Gillis takes the receiver from her hand.
NORMA: Miss Schaefer, I'm trying to do you a favor. I'm trying to spare you a great deal of misery. Of course you may be too young to even suspect there are men of his sort. I don't know what he's told you, but he does not live with relatives, nor with friends, in the usual sense of the word. Ask him . Ask him again. During the latter part of her call, the doors from Gillis' room have been pushed open and Gillis has walked towards her. Suddenly Norma senses his pre- sence and turns around. The telephone freezes in her hand. She tries to hang it up. Very calmly Gillis takes the receiver from her hand.
GILLIS: ( Into phone ) That's right, Betty, ask me again. This is Joe.
BETTY: Joe, where are you? What's this all about?
GILLIS: Or maybe it would be a better idea if you came over and saw it for yourself. The address is 10086
NORMA: Don't hate me, Joe. I did it because I need you. I need you as I never needed you. Look at me. Look at my hands, look at my face, look under my eyes. How can I go back to work if I'm wasting away under this torment? You don't know what I've been through these last weeks. I got myself a revolver. You don't believe me, but I did, I did! I stood in front of that mirror, only I couldn't make myself. It wouldn't be fair to all those people who are waiting to see me back on the screen. I can't disappoint them. Only, if I'm to work, I need sleep, I need quiet, I need you! Don't just stand there hating me! Shout at me, strike me! But don't hate me, Joe. Don't you hear me, Joe?
GILLIS: Yes, I hear you. And I wish you'd keep still so I can hear the doorbell when she rings it.
CONNIE: Here's ten thousand seventy-nine, Betty. It must be over there. Betty turns the car into the driveway of Norma's place, stops at the entrance steps. Betty gets out.
CONNIE: Betty, let me come along with you. Please.
BETTY: No, I'll be all right. She shuts the door of the car and goes up the steps.
NORMA: ( In a whimpering monotone ) I love you, Joe. I love you, Joe. I love you, Joe. I love you, Joe.
NORMA: What are you going to do, Joe? Without a word, he leaves the room. Norma raises herself on the bed, reaching for a black negligee lying at the foot of it. As she does so, she dis- lodges her pillow a little, revealing a revolver hidden beneath it.
GILLIS' VOICE: It's all right, Max. I'll take it.
MAX: Yes, sir. He stands back as Gillis opens the door.
GILLIS: Hello, Betty.
BETTY: ( On the threshold ) I don't know why I'm so scared, Joe. Is it something awful?
GILLIS: Come on in, Betty, Betty enters. As he leads her into the living room, Gillis puts his arm around her shoulders.
GILLIS: Ever been in one of these old Hollywood palazzos? That's from when they were making eighteen thou- sand a week, and no taxes. Careful of these tiles, they're slippery. Valentino used to dance here.
BETTY: This is where you live?
GILLIS: You bet.
BETTY: Whose house is it? They have reached
GILLIS: Just look around. There's a lot of her spread about. If you don't remember the face, you must have heard the name of Norma Desmond.
BETTY: Just look around. There's a lot of her spread about. If you don't remember the face, you must have heard the name of Norma Desmond.
GILLIS: Just look around. There's a lot of her spread about. If you don't remember the face, you must have heard the name of Norma Desmond.
BETTY: That was Norma Desmond on the phone?
GILLIS: Want something to drink? There's always champagne on ice, and plenty of caviar.
BETTY: Why did she call me?
GILLIS: Jealous. Ever see so much junk? She had the ceiling brought from Portugal. Look at this. He pulls the rope, showing the projection screen under the picture.
GILLIS: Her own movie theatre.
BETTY: I didn't come here to see a house. What about Norma Desmond?
GILLIS: I'm trying to tell you. This is an enormous place. Eight master bedrooms. A sunken tub in every bathroom. There's a bowling alley in the cellar. It's lonely here, so she got herself a companion. A very simple set-up: An older woman who is well-to-do. A younger man who is not doing too well . Can you figure it out yourself?
BETTY: All right. I'll give you a few more clues.
GILLIS: All right. I'll give you a few more clues.
BETTY: No, no! I haven't heard any of this. I never got those telephone calls. I've never been in this house . Get your things together. Let's get out of here.
GILLIS: All my things? All the eighteen suits, all the custom-made shoes and the eighteen dozen shirts, and the cuff-links and the platinum key- chains, and the cigarette cases?
BETTY: Come on, Joe.
GILLIS: Come on where? Back to a one-room apartment that I can't pay for? Back to a story that may sell and very possibly will not?
BETTY: If you love me, Joe.
GILLIS: Look, sweetie be practical. l've got a good thing here. A long-term contract with no options. I like it that way. Maybe it's not very admirable. Well, you and Artie can be admirable.
BETTY: Joe, I can't look at you any more.
GILLIS: Nobody asked you to. Betty turns from him, to hide the fact that she is All right, baby. This way out. He leads her in the direction of the door.
GILLIS: All right, baby. This way out. He leads her in the direction of the door.
GILLIS: Good luck to you, Betty. You can finish that story on the way to Arizona. When you and Artie get back, if the two of you ever feel like a swim, here's the pool . He switches on the light.
NORMA: Thank you, Joe thank you, Joe. She tries to take his hand to kiss it as he passes. He doesn't stop. Norma catches his coat. Gillis moves right on into his room. Norma lies on the floor looking after him. She crawls toward a con- sole, pulls herself up by it, starts towards Gillis' door, passes a mirror, realizes how she looks, moves back to the mirror and takes the patches off her face and does a hasty job of removing the cream with her handkerchief, readjusts her expression to a poor travesty of a smile and goes to the door of Gillis' May I come in? I've stopped cry- ing. I'm all right again. Joe, tell me you're not cross tell me everything is just as it was, She opens the door.
NORMA: May I come in? I've stopped cry- ing. I'm all right again. Joe, tell me you're not cross tell me everything is just as it was, She opens the door.
NORMA: What are you doing, Joe? What are you doing? You're not leaving Yes, I am, Norma.
GILLIS: Yes, I am, Norma.
NORMA: No, you're not. Max! Max!
GILLIS: Max is a good idea. He can help with my luggage. Thanks for letting me wear the handsome wardrobe. And thanks for the use of all the trinkets. He takes the cigarette case and throws it on the chaise longue. Then he throws the lighter, the wrist watch, the platinum key-chain and the tie clip.
GILLIS: ( Indicating the bureau ) The rest of the jewelry is in the top drawer.
NORMA: It's yours, Joe. I gave it to And I'd take it in a second, Norma only it's a little too dressy for sitting behind the copy desk in Dayton, Ohio.
GILLIS: And I'd take it in a second, Norma only it's a little too dressy for sitting behind the copy desk in Dayton, Ohio.
NORMA: These are nothing. You can have anything you want if you'll only stay. What is it you want Norma, you'd be throwing it away. I don't qualify for the job, not any You can't do this! Max! Max! . I can't face life without you, and I'm not afraid to die, you That's between you and yourself, You think I made that up about the gun. She rushes into her room. Gillis closes the suitcase calmly, notices that he is still wearing some cuff- links Norma gave him, takes them off. Norma reappears in the door, carrying the revolver.
GILLIS: Norma, you'd be throwing it away. I don't qualify for the job, not any You can't do this! Max! Max! . I can't face life without you, and I'm not afraid to die, you That's between you and yourself, You think I made that up about the gun. She rushes into her room. Gillis closes the suitcase calmly, notices that he is still wearing some cuff- links Norma gave him, takes them off. Norma reappears in the door, carrying the revolver.
NORMA: You can't do this! Max! Max! . I can't face life without you, and I'm not afraid to die, you That's between you and yourself, You think I made that up about the gun. She rushes into her room. Gillis closes the suitcase calmly, notices that he is still wearing some cuff- links Norma gave him, takes them off. Norma reappears in the door, carrying the revolver.
GILLIS: That's between you and yourself, You think I made that up about the gun. She rushes into her room. Gillis closes the suitcase calmly, notices that he is still wearing some cuff- links Norma gave him, takes them off. Norma reappears in the door, carrying the revolver.
NORMA: You think I made that up about the gun. She rushes into her room. Gillis closes the suitcase calmly, notices that he is still wearing some cuff- links Norma gave him, takes them off. Norma reappears in the door, carrying the revolver.
NORMA: See, you didn't believe me!.. Now I suppose you don't think I have the courage!
GILLIS: Oh. sure if it would make a good scene.
NORMA: You don't care. do you? But hundreds of thousands of people will carel
GILLIS: Wake up, Norma. You'd be killing yourself to an empty house. The audience left twenty years ago. Now face it. During the preceding. Max has entered. He stands listening, paralyzed.
NORMA: That's a lie! They still want me!
GILLIS: No, they don't.
NORMA: What about the studio? What about De Mille?
GILLIS: He was trying to spare your feelings. The studio wanted to rent your car.
NORMA: Wanted what?
GILLIS: De Mille didn't have the heart to tell you. None of us has had the heart.
NORMA: That's a lie! They want me, they want me! I get letters every day!
GILLIS: You tell her, Max. Come on, do her that favor. Tell her there isn't going to be any picture there aren't any fan letters, except the ones you write yourself.
NORMA: That isn't true! Max?
MAX: Madame is the greatest star of them all. I will take Mr. Gillis' bags. He leaves.
NORMA: You heard him. I'm a star!
GILLIS: Norma, grow up. You're a woman of fifty. There's nothing tragic about being fifty - not unless you try to be twenty-five.
NORMA: I'm the greatest star of them Goodbye. Norma.
GILLIS: Goodbye. Norma.
NORMA: No one leaves a star. That makes one a star. Gillis picks up the typewriter and leaves.
NORMA: You're not leaving me!
NORMA'S VOICE: Joe! .Joe! There is the SOUND OF A SHOT. The glass of the front door is shattered. Gillis at the door opens it and walks out, without looking back. Down the staircase rushes Norma. a disordered wild- ness in the way she moves.
NORMA: You're not leaving me! She hurries after Gillis.
NORMA: You're not leaving me! She shoots twice in rapid succession. Gillis drops the typewriter. The shots have swung him around. He is now facing Norma. She shoots him. This shot hits him in the belly. He doubles up, instinctively backs away from her, plummets into the lit pool. Up the stone steps from the garage rushes Max. He sees the situation, hurries towards Norma, who stands exultant in the strange light from the pool.
NORMA: Stars are ageless, aren't they?
LIEUTENANT: Coroner's office? . I want to speak to the Coroner . Who's on this phone?
MISS HOPPER: I am! Now get off, this is more important . Times City Desk? Hedda Hopper speaking. I'm talking from the bedroom of Norma Desmond. Don't bother with a rewrite man, take this direct. Ready? As day breaks over the murder house, Norma Desmond, famed star of yesteryear, is in a state of complete mental shock . THE CAMERA PANS TO ANOTHER PART OF THE BEDROOM, where Norma sits at a mirror, staring at herself blankly. Firing questions at her are the Captain of the Holmby Hills Division and the L.A. Homicide Squad. Max stands by faithfully.
LIEUTENANT: The newsreel guys have arrived with the cameras.
NORMA: Cameras? .What is it, Max?
MAX: The cameras have arrived, Madame.
NORMA: They have? Thank you, Max. Tell Mr. DeMille I will be on the set at once. Max flashes a look at the Head of Homicide.
MAX: Please .
MAX: Is everything set up, gentlemen? Are the lights ready? From the stairway comes a murnur. They look up. Norma has emerged from the bedroom and comes to the head of the stairs. There are golden spangles in her hair and in her hand she carries a golden scarf. The police clear a path for her to descend. Press cameras flash at her every step. Max stands at the cameras.
MAX: Is everything set up, gentlemen?
CAMERAMAN: Just about. The portable lights flare up and illuminate the Are the lights ready?
MAX: Are the lights ready?
MAX: Quiet, everybody! Lights! Are you ready, Norma?
NORMA: ( From the top of the What is the scene? Where am I?
MAX: This is the staircase of the palace.
NORMA: Oh, yes, yes. They're below, waiting for the Princess . I'm ready.
MAX: All right. Norma arranges the golden GILLIS' VOICE scarf ebout her and proudy So they were grinding starts to descend the stair- after all, those cam- case. The cameras grind. eras. Life, which can Everyone watches in awe. be strangely merciful, At the foot of the stairs Norma stops, moved.
NORMA: I can't go on with the scene. I'm too happy. Do you mind, Mr. DeMille, if I say a few words? Thank you. I just want to tell you how happy I am to be back in the studio making a picture again. You don't know how much I've missed all of you. And I promise you I'll never desert you again, because after "Salome" we'll make another picture, and another and another. You see, this is my life. It always will be. There's nothing else - just us and the cameras and those wonderful people out there in the dark. All right, Mr. DeMille, I'm ready for my closeup.
THE END: Writers : Charles Brackett Billy Wilder D.M. Harshman Jr.
