ALEXANDER SALKIND: David Odell Copyright 1983
SUPERGIRL: David Odell Copyright 1983
TEACHER: And now, who can give me the electron wave functions for Kryptonian covalent The five year olds eagerly raise their hands. The teacher points to one.
CHILD: The cube root of the wavelength over the natural log of the integral of the speed of light squared. The teacher smiles.
TEACHER: Well, maybe that was a bit too easy. THE CAMERA ROAMS ON through the city, following the sound of a strange, ethereally beautiful singing. The CAMERA discovers the source of the sound: an ARTIST sculpting a beautiful crystalline object with a MATTERWAND. The wand makes the singing noise as it creates matter out of energy. The Artist, whose name is ZALTAR, sometimes whistles along in counterpoint. . A small girl is watching him with fascination. Her name is Kara, and she is seven. Behind her, the dome, which encloses the City, marks the edge of the limbo outside.
KARA: where your cousin went.
ZALTAR: where your cousin went.
KARA: where your cousin went.
ZALTAR: where your cousin went.
KARA: my head. Zaltar laughs.
ZALTAR: my head. Zaltar laughs.
KARA: my head. Zaltar laughs.
ZALTAR: Even I have trouble with that sometimes. Earth is in outer space. And we're in inner space.
KARA: Zaltar takes a small OMEGAHEDRON out of his pocket and holds it in his hand.
ZALTAR: Zaltar takes a small OMEGAHEDRON out of his pocket and holds it in his hand.
ZALTAR: You see, a tree is a living thing.
KARA: Can you create life?
ZALTAR: No, no, just the illusion of life. A kind of half-life, maybe. A pale shadow of the real thing. But it is lovely, the way the light plays over the surface. . . A woman's voice can be heard calling in the distance.
WOMAN'S VOICE: Kara calls out in reply.
KARA: Kara's mother ALURA appears through the lacey architecture of the city.
ALURA: Kara, you shouldn't be so near the Edge without a grown-up.
KARA: Alura puts her arm around her daughter affectionately, showing she's not really angry. Together they watch Zaltar's latest sculpture, flickering with the play of inner light and shadow.
ZALTAR: Alura puts her arm around her daughter affectionately, showing she's not really angry. Together they watch Zaltar's latest sculpture, flickering with the play of inner light and shadow.
ALURA: Thank you, Zaltar, but she has to obey the rules. Zaltar takes another swig from his flask. and lowers his voice confidentially.
ZALTAR: You and your husband have been kind to me, Alura. I have something to tell you: I'm going away. Soon.
ALURA: Zaltar bends down to Kara and hands her his matterwand.
ZALTAR: Put your fingers there, Kara. And press hard. She does, and the wand makes a horrible squawk. Kara laughs with delight.
ZALTAR: Good. Now, go make something pretty. Kara scampers away, hardly able to believe her good fortune, and starts to make all kinds of surprising sounds with the wand on the plaza nearby. Zaltar speaks to Alura in a low, confidential voice.
ZALTAR: to Argo City. I want to do something new. I'm starting to repeat myself here with this airy, glittery stuff.. Zaltar waves a hand deprecatingly at the city around him.
ALURA: to Argo City. I want to do something new. I'm starting to repeat myself here with this airy, glittery stuff.. Zaltar waves a hand deprecatingly at the city around him.
ZALTAR: to Argo City. I want to do something new. I'm starting to repeat myself here with this airy, glittery stuff.. Zaltar waves a hand deprecatingly at the city around him.
ALURA: But Zaltar-you founded the city! It's yours. We were all just refugees from Krypton when you gathered us together and brought us here, to the inner dimension. You can't abandon us now. You have a responsibility to us! In the background, Kara has been modeling a spiky insect-like CREATURE. Now she suddenly finds the OMEGAHEDRON on the ground beside her. She doesn't stop to wonder how it got there from beside Zaltar's feet. She simply picks up the OMEGAHEDRON and touches it to the spiky creature. The creature suddenly flicks its wings and COMES TO LIFE, unnoticed by the adults. Kara drops the wand and laughs out loud with delight as the magical creature takes off from the ground and starts flying in circles around her head, glittering as if it were made of diamonds.
ZALTAR: people come second.
ALURA: The spiky insect-creature flies closer and closer around the little girl's head, buzzing angrily. Her look of delight turns to fear. She tries to shoo the creature away. It flies off toward the thin membrane that encloses the city. The spiky creature flies into the membrane and tears a ragged hole in it. With a giant WHOOSH all the air in the city starts to rush out the hole. Kara is swept along toward the hole by the wind. She cries out and stretches pleading hands toward her mother. THE OMEGAHEDRON is swept toward the hole as well. Kara grabs onto the ragged edge of the membrane.
ZALTAR: Kara reaches for it, but it is too far from her, and the OMEGAHEDRON is sucked out into infinity by the wind. Zaltar picks up the matterwand from where Kara dropped it and touches her with the wand. She is instantly held fast. Zaltar pulls her back inside. He gives her to her mother Alura. Then Zaltar touches his wand to the membrane and seals the hole with masterful chords like a brass choir. The wind dies down and all is silent, except for the quiet sobbing of Kara in her mother's arms. Zaltar kneels down beside her and strokes her golden hair tenderly.
KARA: I'm sorry. I didn't know.
ZALTAR: It was my fault. You aren't old enough to use the wand. I shouldn't have given it to you.
ALURA: with three.
ZALTAR: with three.
ALURA: send me to the Phantom Zone. You see, I didn't really have permission to borrow it. I must go explain to them. Zaltar hurries off nervously. THE CAMERA HOLDS ON KARA'S FACE as she senses this may be her last sight of Zaltar.
ZALTAR: send me to the Phantom Zone. You see, I didn't really have permission to borrow it. I must go explain to them. Zaltar hurries off nervously. THE CAMERA HOLDS ON KARA'S FACE as she senses this may be her last sight of Zaltar.
SELENA: George sets down the wicker basket and Selena starts to unpack a scrumptious picnic of home cooked food. She unpacks fried chicken, hard-boiled eggs, potato salad, cold beer and a big rich creamy-frosted devils food cake.
GEORGE: You sure are a good cook, Selena. Man, that looks too pretty to eat.
SELENA: all covered with ants. She hands him a chicken drumstick and a hard-boiled egg.
GEORGE: Selena, I've been thinking. It's time I settled down-and I don't know a nicer lady to settle down with than you.
SELENA: Why George, are you proposing?
GEORGE: in much now, but.
SELENA: George-I thought you'd never ask. A shrill whistling sound from above makes them look up. With a loud plop and a spatter of icing the OMEGAHEDRON falls into the middle of the chocolate cake.
GEORGE: What the heck is that? They look up in the boughs of the tree overhead, and then down at the chocolate cake splashed all over the checked cloth.
SELENA: Selena reaches out and picks up the OMEGAHEDRON. It comes away from the cake without a trace of the chocolate icing sticking to its surface, as if made of some substance, which repels other kinds of matter. Selena holds the shining Omegahedron in her hand and examines it, turning it around and around as if hypnotized. Her face takes on a new expression. Almost as if the simple, wholesome innocence of her nature had been blasted away by some profound new knowledge of the universe.
SELENA: That's funny. I'd swear I know just what this is, but I've never seen it before. She stands up and walks across the checkered cloth, in a beeline for the pickup truck.
GEORGE: Hey, where you going?
SELENA: ( calling over her shoulder ) I've got things to do.
GEORGE: ( dismissively ) Call me next week. Maybe we can have lunch. She gets in the pickup and. drives away.
SELENA: ( dismissively ) Call me next week. Maybe we can have lunch. She gets in the pickup and. drives away.
GEORGE: DISSOLVE TO: She is ten years older now, a young lady. Almost ready to assume the long flowing gown of an adult, but still in the tunic worn by those under eighteen.
ALURA: ( voice over ) But Kara, you are too young to go.
KARA: I am almost an adult. This is what I want.
KARA: was sent there as an infant, all you have wanted to do was visit this place.
KARA: was sent there as an infant, all you have wanted to do was visit this place.
ALURA: was sent there as an infant, all you have wanted to do was visit this place.
KARA: scanning shows the Power Source has finally reached the Earth. It could destroy everything unless someone brings it back.
KARA: have returned from the neutron galaxy ages ago. He may be dead.
KARA: Our lights are fading. Look around you. When I was a child the City was bright and shining. Look at it now. Zor-El and Alura sigh. There is no denying that the brilliance of Argo City has been much dimmed since Kara was a little girl.
ALURA: What do your teachers think? Zor-El looks around the circle. A beautiful woman speaks.
TEACHER: It would be sad to lose one of our finest young ones to the dimension barrier but the City cannot last much longer without the Power Source. It is her future she's fighting for, Zor-El.
KARA: Don't worry, Mother, I'll be all right. I've studied the transmissions from Earth. I know their customs. Kara walks out of the amphitheater with her parents.
ALURA: But they are such strange, unstable people.
KARA: Then I will learn to act strange like them. Kara holds up a small handbag. Inside we glimpse red and blue material.
KARA: I have made clothing and copies of their money, I will be fine. Her father puts his hand on her shoulder .
KARA: As brave as my father. As wise. They embrace, briefly. Kara then steps onto a circular platform set into the pavement of the city. Instantly transparent bubble forms around her. Her parents watch as she floats away. She passes into an air lock through the membrane that surrounds the City, and off into an infinity of space.
BIANCA: Be careful. Nigel is going to try something.
SELENA: Don't worry about old Nigel, I can take care of him. He's just a sore loser. An ELDERLY MAN in a three-piece pin-stripe suit grabs her elbow.
ELDERLY MAN: I don't want much, Selena. I have simple tastes.
SELENA: ELDERLY MAN have Switzerland. You know how she loves to ski.
ELDERLY MAN: have Switzerland. You know how she loves to ski.
SELENA: have Switzerland. You know how she loves to ski.
ELDERLY MAN: Selena leaves him negotiating boundary lines with Bianca and strolls over to a sour-faced man in suede who has been scowling at her over his cigarette.
SELENA: It may well be. I know how you won that election Selena. You can't fool me.
NIGEL: It may well be. I know how you won that election Selena. You can't fool me.
SELENA: I'm going places.
NIGEL: You're not going anywhere. Except back to nowheresville. You're too impatient, Selena. Look around youall these people have served years and years of apprenticeship. Some of their families have been in the Craft for generations. You can't join and take over our whole organization in a few months. Selena smirks at him, self-confidently.
SELENA: I just did. Because I have the Power.
NIGEL: You're going to pay a terrible price. The power of Shadow is tricky. Use it too much and it takes over. Nigel drops his cigarette, stubs it out on the lawn, and takes out his platinum cigarette case.
SELENA: long as I don't go too far.
NIGEL: He holds the shiny mirror-like cigarette case in front of her so she can see her reflection. INSERT. SURFACE OF THE CIGARETTE CASE. Selena's reflection. She is still the glamorous beauty, but looming behind her.invisible to ordinary eyes.is a DARK EERIE SHAPE OF SOMETHING HIDEOUS.
NIGEL: Sorry. Forgot you were trying to quit. Nigel snags a glass of champagne off the tray of a nearby waiter and sips it insolently.
SELENA: Nigel, get out of here. And don't come slithering Nigel shakes his head.
NIGEL: You need me, Selena. I'm the only one who can save you from a terrible fate.
SELENA: burn rubber. Nigel locks eyes with her.
NIGEL: Make me. He takes another insolent sip of champagne.arid discovers a scorpion perched on the rim of his glass. Nigel spits out the champagne and, drops the glass. Everyone laughs at him.
NIGEL: Balefire on you, Selena!
SELENA: ( grinning ) You Scorpios can never take a joke. All quests have fallen silent, staring at the altercation between the two of them.
NIGEL: You think you are on top now. Well there is someone coming to challenge you. I saw it in the cards this morning.
SELENA: Two burly waiters seize Nigel and drag him off toward the valet parking.
NIGEL: You won't last a year, Selena. The cards don't lie! The crowd breaks into a buzz of conversation. Bianca stands up on a chair. The crowd falls silent.
BIANCA: Let's not let one rotten apple spoil the party. I give you the first woman in eight hundred years to head the Circle: Selena! Applause. Selena steps up onto a raised dais. And holds up her hands in an invocational gesture.
SELENA: Thank you, sisters and brothers of the Craft. It is a great honor you have given me, and I will try to be worthy. And when my secret plans are revealed you will learn that we are on the threshold of power and influence undreamed of when Nigel was our leader. More applause. One of the cooks applauding at the refreshment table knocks over a fuel-pot under a chafing dish. The fuel-pot falls on the ground at the base of the wicker goat statue.
SELENA: And now, ,I call upon the Great Motherthe spirit of Nature - to bless all our endeavors in the coming year. A woman in the .audience screams. Everyone looks where, she is pointing. The huge ten-foot tall wicker statue ,bursts into flames. Panic and pandemonium. Some of the quests run for safety. Others try to throw water onto the blazing, torch-like statue, but in vain. Selena frowns at the spectacle, and, without a word, turns and stalks into her house.
ELDERLY MAN: It's a warning, that's for sure.
SELENA: It's a warning, that's for sure.
ELDERLY MAN: Maybe it was just an accident.
SELENA: ( mysteriously ) There's no such thing as an accident. Everything has meaning, if you can read the signs. The elderly man looks down at the pattern of tarot cards Selena has cast on the floor.
ELDERLY MAN: Then what does it mean??? Selena shrugs and puts aside her cards.
SELENA: Don't ask me. I can't read the signs worth spit.
MYRA: Geeze, another barfy new student. They're really scraping the bottom of the barrel these days. Linda walks on up to the next f1oor.
MR. DANVERS: Don't you believe in knocking?
LINDA: She knocks on the open door. Her manner is so open and guileless that MR. Danvers, though he gives her a strange look, does not put it down to smart-aleckyness, as he normally would.
MR. DANVERS: My cousin wrote you. MR. Danvers stares at her blankly. He's a bit absent-minded.
LINDA: My cousin wrote you. MR. Danvers stares at her blankly. He's a bit absent-minded.
LINDA: The letter's in your files. Under K, for Kent. MR. Danvers opens his file and searches through it.
LINDA: I mean, it would probably be there, if you received it.
MR. DANVERS: Here it is. Oh.of course. You're the orphan. I'm so sorry about your parents. We'll try to make you happy here. He rises and walks around the desk toward her. He puts his hand on her shoulder in a fatherly fashion.
MR DANVERS: .since your school records were lost in the fire, we'11 start you out easy first. You'll have English, Latin, French, History, Art, Chemistry, Math, Biology and Computing. Later on, you can add some electives. I think we'll put you in "G" dorm. He opens the door and ushers her into the dorm.
STUDENT MONITOR: Man on the floor! Immediately, several of the room doors along the corridor slam shut. MR. Danvers smiles indulgently and leads Linda along to one of the rooms with an open door.
LUCY: Oh, MR. Danvers, come in and park it.
MR. DANVERS: Lucy, your roommate still home with anorexia?
LUCY: It wasn't anorexia. It was the food.
MR DANVERS: Linda, this is Lucy Lane. You can room with her. Show her around, Lucy; I believe you know her cousin, MR., uh, Kent. Lucy turns into a bundle of enthusiasm. She grabs Linda's suitcase and leads her into the room chattering away excitedly.
LUCY: Wow, you're Clark's cousin?? Fabuloso! Clark's a hunk. My sister Lois was a real nerd to let that one get away. You'll love it here, we have a great dorm, some really insane characters, I mean radical craziness.
LINDA: She looks down at the nearly empty suitcase.
LUCY: She looks down at the nearly empty suitcase.
LINDA: Lucy involuntarily glances over her shoulder at the bulging closet beside. her own bed. Lucy's bed is smothered with teddy bears, and the walls around it are covered with photos and posters of male rock singers, movie stars, and tennis players. Also a large painted poster of SUPERMAN.
LUCY: Lucy involuntarily glances over her shoulder at the bulging closet beside. her own bed. Lucy's bed is smothered with teddy bears, and the walls around it are covered with photos and posters of male rock singers, movie stars, and tennis players. Also a large painted poster of SUPERMAN.
LINDA: I have money to buy more, but I haven't had a chance since.
LUCY: you can borrow any of my clothes you want. Any time.
LINDA: you can borrow any of my clothes you want. Any time.
LUCY: you can borrow any of my clothes you want. Any time.
LINDA: you can borrow any of my clothes you want. Any time.
LUCY: you can borrow any of my clothes you want. Any time.
LINDA: Thank you. You're very kind.
LUCY: I'm real sorry, Linda, I should've known it was something tragic if you show up without a wardrobe. Here, try on this. And this. Lucy starts pulling clothes out of her closet and tossing to Linda.
LINDA: The pack turns and heads back toward them, the lead. Myra slaps the puck directly at. steps in front of it to protect Lucy. The and shatters. .Play stops. The girls mill confusion, picking up the little pieces of with Myra in Lucy. Linda puck hits Linda around in puck.
LUCY: The pack turns and heads back toward them, the lead. Myra slaps the puck directly at. steps in front of it to protect Lucy. The and shatters. .Play stops. The girls mill confusion, picking up the little pieces of with Myra in Lucy. Linda puck hits Linda around in puck.
LUCY: Must've been a defective puck.
LINDA: Must've been a defective puck.
LUCY: Keep an eye peeled for Myra. She's out to get you.
LINDA: She just hates anybody who isn't afraid of her.
LUCY: She just hates anybody who isn't afraid of her.
MYRA: ( whispering )
MYRA: Listen to the screams when I shut off the cold water. She takes a huge wrench and starts to shut off a valve. Her spy looks worriedly at the valve.
MUFFY: But, Myra, why don't you shut off the hot water and give them an ice bath? If you shut off the cold it, could scald them.
MYRA: So they lose a little skin. Serve 'em right. Myra pulls on the wrench.
MR DANVERS: Now, this is the kind of problem that used to take weeks before the computer. It still takes a long time without certain algorithms. Linda stares out through the solid wall with her X-RAY vision.
LINDA: Uh, yes, MR. Danvers. She looks at the board.
LINDA: The answer is 5,271,009,010. Linda smiles, proud that she got the right answer. The other girls in the class laugh at her. Even her friend Lucy snickers. Linda realizes she has made a mistake, but is not sure how serious it is. The class bell rings and the girls dash for the exit. Linda stays in her seat staring at Mr. Danvers as he goes around the room switching off the computers.
MR. DANVERS: You may go, Linda. But try not to clown around in the future. She meekly heads for the door. He turns to erase the blackboard. Something stays his hand, and he looks at the problem. Then he puts down the eraser and starts to copy the problem on a piece of paper.
SELENA: Bianca jams on the brakes and the car screeches to a halt.
SELENA: I said stop, I didn't say run into a brick wall.
BIANCA: The metal gargoyle box is glowing with an inner radiance.
SELENA: The metal gargoyle box is glowing with an inner radiance.
SELENA: The danger. The one Nigel spoke of. It must be near . They stare out the car window at the girls' softball game, which was resumed.
BIANCA: The danger. The one Nigel spoke of. It must be near . They stare out the car window at the girls' softball game, which was resumed.
SELENA: baseball game?
BIANCA: It must be the girls. One of the girls.
SELENA: It must be the girls. One of the girls.
BIANCA: Drive on. We have already attracted enough Bianca starts up the car again and drives smoothly away.
SELENA: Drive on. We have already attracted enough Bianca starts up the car again and drives smoothly away.
SELENA: We'll bide our time and keep watch. Young girls just can't keep a secret. If one of them's up to somethingwe'll find out.
BIANCA: The car swerves slightly.
SELENA: Bianca, try not to be so bloodthirsty when you're at the wheel. OK?
BIANCA: CUT TO: EXT. DORM. DAY Linda is standing at the bathroom' window of her dorm room, looking outside with a melancholy expression. She slides the curtain across the window, so no one can see in.
LUCY: Hey, Linda, you in there? LINDA ( o.s. ) Linda answers from inside the shut bathroom door.
LUCY: How much longer you gonna be? LINDA ( o.s. ) Not long. I'm cutting my hair. Lucy crosses to the bathroom door.
LUCY: You're a maniac! Let me do it for you. You'll look awful.
SUPERGIRL: I can manage, thanks. Supergirl holds out a lock of her blonde hair. She looks into the mirror and SHOOTS A BEAM OF ENERGY FROM HER EYE, which reflects off the mirror and strikes her hair, cutting off one inch of the blonde strand.
LUCY: I cut my own hair once. I looked so awful the only thing was to go totally punk! Linda opens the door and steps out of the bathroom. She is wearing her brunette wig and her Linda clothing. Lucy is puzzled.
LUCY: Your hair looks the same.
LINDA: It was just a trim. The student hall monitor sticks her head in the door and yells excitedly.
JODY: Hey guys, Gloria just got a package from home.
LUCY: A hair dryer that makes popcorn!
JODY: A hair dryer that makes popcorn!
LUCY: Lucy hurries to the door. Linda holds back.
LINDA: Linda nods bravely, and Lucy dashes off down the hall toward the lounge. Linda stands alone in the room. A beam of light from the setting sun shines through the room, and casts a pool of light on the opposite wall. Linda looks at the beam of light with nostalgia.
LUCY: Linda nods bravely, and Lucy dashes off down the hall toward the lounge. Linda stands alone in the room. A beam of light from the setting sun shines through the room, and casts a pool of light on the opposite wall. Linda looks at the beam of light with nostalgia.
LINDA: ALURA ( o.s. ) In Argo City. Have you found the Power Source?
LINDA: to begin to look. ALURA ( o.s. ) near you. I can feel it. Keep to your disguise. Let no one know who you are.
LINDA: But why? I have super powers. Nothing can hurt me. ALURA ( o.s. ) There are more powers in the universe than we know. And more than we can imagine. Be careful, Kara. And come home safely. The sun sets and the beam of light disappears as if a switch had been snapped off, leaving Linda alone in the warm afterglow of twilight. The soft strains of girls harmonizing float down the hall. GIRLS ( o.s. ) ".mid pleasures and palaces Where'ere I roam, Be it ever so humble, There's no place like home."
MR. DANVERS: No plans for the weekend, Linda?
LINDA: MR. DANVERS you come home with us for dinner?
MR. DANVERS: Can't have you moping around the campus. Why don't you come home with us for dinner?
LINDA: DISSOLVE TO: EXT. BACKYARD OF DANVERS'S HOUSE. DAY Mr. & Mrs. Danvers and Linda sit outside under the trees at a table piled high with delicious home cooked food. ,The dog begs for scraps. As the scene progresses ( MOS ) the Danvers bring Linda out of her shyness until they all laugh together sharing food, jokes and happiness. A. dreamlike moment of nostalgia from everyone's childhood.
BIANCA: Is he your entertainment for tonight?
SELENA: He will be. In about five minutes.
BIANCA: Have fun. Bianca exits, and Selena waves to Ethan from the French doors.
SELENA: Come in, have a drink, we'll talk. She ushers him inside and sits him down in front of the vast hearth.
ETHAN: Come in, have a drink, we'll talk. She ushers him inside and sits him down in front of the vast hearth.
SELENA: Come in, have a drink, we'll talk. She ushers him inside and sits him down in front of the vast hearth.
SELENA: You must be very popular in the neighborhood. I always see your truck parked around.
ETHAN: Ethan spreads his drawings out on his knees.
SELENA: Ethan spreads his drawings out on his knees.
ETHAN: Ethan spreads his drawings out on his knees.
SELENA: Ethan spreads his drawings out on his knees.
ETHAN: Now we could put in rhododendrons or lilacs.depending on how alkaline your soil is. Selena gives a cursory glance at the sketch, and then turns to a silver tray beside her. She picks up a frosty pitcher and pours an iced fruit drink into two tall glasses.
SELENA: I just love plants and growing things. It must be wonderful to have green thumbs. Cheers! Ethan looks at the drink with misgiving.
ETHAN: Uh, no thanks, I don't drink during the day. Selena gestures outside.
SELENA: But look, it's almost sundown! Ethan glances outside. Selena pours some poisonous looking red liquid into his glass from a tiny bottle hidden in her hand while his attention is distracted.
ETHAN: Really, I'm not thirsty. Now I could put in some honeysuckle there and there. Selena pouts exaggeratedly.
SELENA: recipe, I'm famous for them. Ethan pauses. He doesn't want to offend his rich new customer over such a trifle.
ETHAN: He takes his glass ( with the extra ingredient ) and clinks it against hers in a toast.
SELENA: He takes his glass ( with the extra ingredient ) and clinks it against hers in a toast.
ETHAN: He takes his glass ( with the extra ingredient ) and clinks it against hers in a toast.
SELENA: To us. And to the seeds we'll plant together.
ETHAN: He takes a careful sip of his drink, tastes, and smiles.
ETHAN: He tosses off the rest of it in one gulp. Selena watches him triumphantly.
ETHAN: He suddenly clutches his throat with a gasp and collapses unconscious on the couch. She leans over him and strokes his cheek delicately with her long red-nailed fingers.
SELENA: Sleep well. And when you wake, drown in my eyes and be all mine. The DOORBELL RINGS. Selena looks up with annoyance.
SELENA: If that's the Jehovah's Witnesses again. She angrily walks toward the hall, casting a fond look back at Ethan.
SELENA: Don't go away, gorgeous. I'll be right back.
SELENA: I have to talk to you.
NIGEL: I have to talk to you.
SELENA: You're wasting your breath.
NIGEL: You used to listen to me. When you asked me to teach you something of the Craft.
SELENA: INT. SELENA'S LIVING ROOM Ethan opens his eyes. He rises from the couch and stands there swaying deliriously.
NIGEL: .trust the wisdom of the ancients, trust the Great Mother to protect us. Why. are you staring at me like that?
SELENA: I was just thinking, if I had your skin problems, I'd use a good tannisroot ointment. Every night. Nigel is rather vain about his smooth olive complexion, so he is completely thrown off his stride.
NIGEL: Nothing's wrong with my skin.
SELENA: Such a shame. You ought to take better care of Selena closes the door while he's off his guard. Nigel takes a pocket mirror out of his shoulder bag and stares with horror at his reflection. His face is erupting all over in ugly red blotches.
NIGEL: EXT. GROUNDS OF SELENA'S MANSION. SUNSET Ethan staggers across the lawn, still clutching his head, obviously very ill. As he disappears through the shrubbery on the far side of the lawn, he mutters drunkenly to himself.
ETHAN: INT. SELENA'S LIVING ROOM Selena enters and finds Ethan gone. She is furious. She walks to the French doors.
SELENA: INT. THE DANVERS' LIVING ROOM. NIGHT Linda is playing chess with MR. Danvers, while his wife knits on the sofa.
MRS. DANVERS: I think you'd better be getting back to the dorm, Linda. The housemother'll expect you to sign in by eight. Linda stands up from the chessboard.
LINDA: Thank you both so much. It was a lovely lunch, Mrs. Danvers. I had a wonderful time. And you're a terrific chess player MR. Danvers.
MR. DANVERS: Sure. Mate in five moves. She moves the pieces chonk, chonk, chonk, chonk, chonk.
LINDA: Sure. Mate in five moves. She moves the pieces chonk, chonk, chonk, chonk, chonk.
LINDA: .and there goes my king. Got to hand it to you, I didn't see it coming. Well, bye. She walks out the door into the night.
SELENA: Show me Ethan. She rips aside the veil. The IMAGE IN THE MIRROR SHOWS ETHAN STAGGERING DRUNKENLY THROUGH THE NIGHT COWN THE CENTRE WHITE LINE OF A HIGHWAY. CARS WHIZZ PAST HIM IN BOTH DIRECTIONS.
SELENA: EXT. HAMBURGER HEAVEN. NIGHT Lucy is in front of the local hamburger drive-in in her Thunderbird convertible, talking to the foxiest dude at Rindge Tech. Other teens are hanging out and listening to rock music outside the drive-in. Lucy catches sight of Linda walking along the side of the road.
LUCY: ( to the boy ) It's my roommate. You'll love her. She's really off the wall! Lucy jumps out of her car, runs over to Linda, and whispers urgently in her ear.
LUCY: Linda babes! There's this all-night party at Eddie's. his folks are away.
LINDA: for an overnight.
LUCY: window. McCloskey's always zonked out: she'll never hear you.
LINDA: Linda catches sight of a figure teetering down the centre, white line of the highway. Cars honk and zoom past him.
LUCY: Linda catches sight of a figure teetering down the centre, white line of the highway. Cars honk and zoom past him.
LINDA: Lucy whirls around and looks.
LUCY: What a space cadet. Hey, you dingleberry! Get outta the street! Ethan ignores them, and continues to teeter deliriously.
LINDA: Why is he acting so strangely?
LUCY: I dunno, but he's gonna get creamed.
SELENA: Power of Shadows.bring him to me. The box in her hand glows with an inner light.
LUCY: Omigod, it's a runaway! Lucy sprints out into the street, running after the driverless bulldozer.
LINDA: Lucy dodges through the cars and alongside the bulldozer. She climbs bravely up into the driver's seat and tries to tug at the controls. They are frozen. In desperation Lucy yanks on the steering wheel. The bulldozer turns ninety degrees into the gas station.
LUCY: Lucy dodges through the cars and alongside the bulldozer. She climbs bravely up into the driver's seat and tries to tug at the controls. They are frozen. In desperation Lucy yanks on the steering wheel. The bulldozer turns ninety degrees into the gas station.
MOTHER: Instead of helping, the onlookers turn and flee the inevitable fire.
MOTHER: My baby. She grasps the child in her arms and helps her husband hobble to safety just as the river of gasoline reaches the sparking wires and BURSTS INTO FLAMES . The bulldozer, with Lucy Lane unconscious at the controls and Ethan imprisoned in the scoop, is surrounded by an IMPENETRABLE RING OF FIRE . Supergirl dashes through the ring of fire so fast that if there were any spectators who weren't running for their lives she would only be visible as a red and blue streak.
SUPERGIRL: Everything's going to be all right. She's just unconscious. No broken bones.
ETHAN: INT. SELENA'S LIVING ROOM Selena watches the image of Ethan and Supergirl in her mirror. Her face is a study in jealousy and dismay. ETHAN ( in the mirror ) God.you're beautiful.
SELENA: EXT. ACCIDENT SCENE/GAS STATION. BULLDOZER. RING OF FIRE She pulls the massive steel jaws shut and tears the scoop off the bulldozer with a sound of rending metal. Immediately afterwards, the flames reach the underground storage tank and the bulldozer is enveloped in a FIERY EXPLOSION.
SUPERGIRL: It's for your own protection. She pulls the massive steel jaws shut and tears the scoop off the bulldozer with a sound of rending metal. Immediately afterwards, the flames reach the underground storage tank and the bulldozer is enveloped in a FIERY EXPLOSION.
ETHAN: It's for your own protection. She pulls the massive steel jaws shut and tears the scoop off the bulldozer with a sound of rending metal. Immediately afterwards, the flames reach the underground storage tank and the bulldozer is enveloped in a FIERY EXPLOSION.
SUPERGIRL: It's for your own protection. She pulls the massive steel jaws shut and tears the scoop off the bulldozer with a sound of rending metal. Immediately afterwards, the flames reach the underground storage tank and the bulldozer is enveloped in a FIERY EXPLOSION.
ETHAN: ( calling from inside ) What's happening?
SUPERGIRL: ( shouting over the wind ) I'm taking you to the hospital.
ETHAN: ( within )
SUPERGIRL: EXT. ACCIDENT SCENE. POST FIRE. NIGHT The firemen have smothered the fire with a blanket of foam. The blackened bulldozer minus its front scoop stands next to the smashed station wagon. A bewildered policeman is searching for victims.
POLICEMAN: Where's the casualties? You can't tell me there's no casualties.
BIANCA: I came as quickly as I could. What is the danger?
SELENA: It's what we were warned about. Selena points to the mirror, which shows the IMAGE OF SUPERGIRL FLYING THROUGH THE AIR CARRYING THE BULLDOZER SCOOP. Bianca can't quite make out what it is at first.
BIANCA: EXT. HOSPITAL ENTRANCE. NIGHT Supergirl lands with the bulldozer scoop in front of the emergency entrance. There is no one around. Supergirl rips open the sealed scoop with a loud noise of rending metal.
SELENA: EXT. HOSPITAL ENTRANCE. NIGHT Supergirl lands with the bulldozer scoop in front of the emergency entrance. There is no one around. Supergirl rips open the sealed scoop with a loud noise of rending metal.
FIRST INTERN: SECOND INTERN EXT . HOSPITAL ENTRANCE. NIGHT Supergirl has strapped Ethan and the semi-conscious Lucy onto wheeled gurneys.
SECOND INTERN: EXT . HOSPITAL ENTRANCE. NIGHT Supergirl has strapped Ethan and the semi-conscious Lucy onto wheeled gurneys.
ETHAN: She gives the gurneys a shove.
SUPERGIRL: She gives the gurneys a shove.
ETHAN: She gives the gurneys a shove.
SUPERGIRL: She gives the gurneys a shove.
FIRST INTERN: Did we use the laughing gas tonight?
SECOND INTERN: FIRST INTERN Then this is really happening. The two interns catch the gurneys, and start examining Ethan and Lucy.
FIRST INTERN: Then this is really happening. The two interns catch the gurneys, and start examining Ethan and Lucy.
SECOND INTERN: Ethan begins to babble deliriously.
ETHAN: The girl. Where is she? It never hit me like this before. I love her. My angel. He sits up, tears brimming in his eyes, and grasps the , intern by the lapels.
ETHAN: Where is she? I love her, don't you understand? I'll die if I can't have her. The intern pulls away and points to Lucy, who is beginning to come to.
FIRST INTERN: through the air:. She can fly. She's an angel. The two interns exchange a glance. One of them steps to a wall intercom.
ETHAN: through the air:. She can fly. She's an angel. The two interns exchange a glance. One of them steps to a wall intercom.
SECOND INTERN: This is Stenzl in Emergency. We got a 412. Send down the boys from psycho.
ETHAN: No! She's real ! I saw her !
SELENA: Why did she have to show up now?
BIANCA: on Earth.
SELENA: on Earth.
BIANCA: on Earth.
SELENA: There is a pause as the implications reverberate.
BIANCA: Yes! You own the Coffer of Shadow. Nothing can withstand its power.
SELENA: That moment is now! What good is a sword unless it be unsheathed? Use it, and no one will dare oppose you again. No one. Selena toys with the idea in her mind, turning over the various arguments. A smile creeps across her face.
BIANCA: That moment is now! What good is a sword unless it be unsheathed? Use it, and no one will dare oppose you again. No one. Selena toys with the idea in her mind, turning over the various arguments. A smile creeps across her face.
SELENA: Selena goes to the secret compartment, opens it and takes out the metal gargoyle box. She looks at it with a dreamy, far-away expression on her face.
SELENA: What do I do? I don't know her name.
BIANCA: The Naming of Names is not necessary. Just concentrate on her face. Your Shadow will do the rest. Selena holds the gargoyle box out in front of her and opens the lid. Inside is the OMEGAHEDRON power source from Argo City, spinning around a strange dark region in its centre. Selena closes her eyes and whispers to the spinning ring.
SELENA: Power of Shadow hear me. Find her wherever she be. Find her and destroy her. A BLACK CLOUD OF SHADOW bursts out of the centre of the OMEGAHEDRON, filling the room. Selena drops the gargoyle box and shrinks back with sudden misgivings at what she has unleashed. Even Bianca's face has gone white. The two women huddle together as a HUGE INVISIBLE PRESENCE fills the room with darkness. Then the unseen presence suddenly SMASHES ITS WAY OUTSIDE THROUGH THE SOLID WALL OF SELENA'S LIVING ROOM, leaving a big hole and a trail of crushed furniture behind it. Light returns to the room as the shadow departs. And from outside the sound of crackling shrubbery dies away. Selena regains her composure and looks around at the mess of her once splendid living room.
SELENA: Next time, remind me to do this out in the yard.
BIANCA: Yes, of course, it was foolish of me. Bianca reaches down to the floor for the gargoyle box with the OMEGAHEDRON, which is still lying right where Selena dropped it. But Selena quickly picks it up herself before Bianca can touch it.
SELENA: I think I'd better keep it.
BIANCA: She shuts the lid of the gargoyle box, sealing the spinning OMEGAHEDRON safely inside.
SELENA: She shuts the lid of the gargoyle box, sealing the spinning OMEGAHEDRON safely inside.
MRS. DANVERS: The housemother still doesn't answer. Mrs. Danvers hangs up the phone with a worried expression.
MR. DANVERS: Probably drunk again. I'm sure Linda got back all right.
MRS. DANVERS: We should have driven her. Mr. Danvers stands up and puts on his jacket.
MR. DANVERS: I'll just drop by the school and. make sure she's all right.
LINDA: Hey, that's my roommate's car! Determination floods her face. She whips off her brunette wig and her civilian clothing to reveal the blonde hair and red blue tunic of SUPERGIRL!
SUPERGIRL: Leave this place and do no harm. Something picks Supergirl up and flings her against the wall of the dorm, crushing the soft drink dispenser under her and squirting cola in every direction. Lightning flashes and thunder booms overhead. Supergirl picks herself up, shaken. She launches herself directly at the space in mid-air ten feet above the monster's footprints. She crashes into something hard and invisible with the sound of a tremendous impact. Supergirl falls to the ground, staggered by the concussion. The irresistible force has met the immovable object. Supergirl looks up, and-altering the wavelength of her X-Ray vision to a transcendental frequency-paints this beam over the monster and just for an instant makes it visible: a HUGE NIGHTMARE SHAPE LOOMING OVER HER, AND REACHING OUT TO CRUSH HER WITH MASSIVE TALONS. Then the image fades. Supergirl is seized again and flung against the school flagpole, breaking it off at the base. Supergirl stands up and seizes the flagpole. She looks up at the flickering lightning in the sky. She flies straight upward into the storm with the bare flagpole held in front of her.
MR. DANVERS: A Supergirl. Linda.is it Linda? Supergirl looks up at him and smiles, weakly.
SUPERGIRL: I didn't want anyone to know. but I was so M. Danvers sits on the side of her bed.
MR. DANVERS: Are you all right?
SUPERGIRL: Just need rest, that's all. Sorry about all the damage outside. I had to fight some terrible thing.
MR. DANVERS: But why?
SUPERGIRL: An evil force. Trying to destroy me. She sits up and looks anxiously at him.
SUPERGIRL: ( image ) You won't tell anybody, will you?
MR. DANVERS: ( image ) Not even my wife. And, if there's anything I can do to help-I'd be honoured.
SUPERGIRL: Thank you, Mr. Danvers. She lapses into a deep sleep. Mr. Danvers stands up, and pulls the covers up over her in a fatherly gesture. He stands beside the bed for a long time looking down at her, and then walks out of the room, closing the door shut behind him.
LUCY: .come see me. And smuggle in a pint, they won't let me have anything, but make sure it's Jamocha Almond Fudge . . Listen, I got to run, my roommate just walked in. Bye. Lucy hangs up and turns to Linda.
LUCY: Hey, Linda-babes! I've got so much to tell you, I don't know where to begin! Oh this is Jimmy Olsen, he works with Clark and my sister at the Nice to meet you. Lucy's told me all about you. Your cousin Clark taught me everything I know about the newspaper business.
JIMMY: Nice to meet you. Lucy's told me all about you. Your cousin Clark taught me everything I know about the newspaper business.
LINDA: She shakes hands shyly with Jimmy, then turns to Lucy.
LINDA: I'm afraid I have some bad news about your car.
LUCY: Mr. Danvers called. I'll get a new one with the insurance money. B.F.D. Jimmy keeps looking at Linda.
JIMMY: Do you have any theories about last night?
LINDA: How Lucy and that guy got to the hospital. And all that damage at the school. The police are calling it a freak tornado. I'd like to interview you for the Daily- -
JIMMY: How Lucy and that guy got to the hospital. And all that damage at the school. The police are calling it a freak tornado. I'd like to interview you for the Daily- -
LUCY: ( overlapping ) Oh, Jimmy, can't you forget about your career for one Planet. I mean, you were there. Do you think it was natural, or like some people are claiming, supernatural?
JIMMY: Planet. I mean, you were there. Do you think it was natural, or like some people are claiming, supernatural?
LINDA: I believe there's a rational explanation for everything. But I don't know what it is.
JIMMY: Lucy hands Jimmy a stainless steel urinal.
LUCY: Jimmy, would you please put those poor flowers in water before they die?
JIMMY: Oh, sure. He steps into Lucy's bathroom with the urinal and fills it with water from her shower. Lucy grabs Linda's arm and whispers urgently in her ear.
LUCY: Listen, I know I've been saying you ought party more, but keep your hands off this one, will yak? He's private property. I've been waiting years for him to develop.
LINDA: Nice? He's cute enough to melt lead! Jimmy emerges from the bathroom with his daffodils neatly arranged in the stainless steel jug.
LUCY: Nice? He's cute enough to melt lead! Jimmy emerges from the bathroom with his daffodils neatly arranged in the stainless steel jug.
JIMMY: Where is your cousin Clark, by the way?
LINDA: He's off doing a top secret uh, investigation.
JIMMY: I knew it ! He's working on a hot scoop !
SELENA: ( to Bianca ) This won't take long. Keep the motor running.
ETHAN: Oh no, not you again.
SELENA: What an adorable hat.
ETHAN: They think I have a concussion.
SELENA: And you think you're in love.
ETHAN: a temporary love potion.
SELENA: a temporary love potion.
ETHAN: Why should I believe you?
SELENA: It's the truth. In twenty-four hours you'll forget all about that girl. Ethan. reaches out and grabs her cloak with a grip of such urgency that she is pulled slightly off balance.
ETHAN: Then I'm not the only one who saw her. You did too! Selena pulls his hand away from her cloak.
SELENA: Yes, yes I saw the whole thing. How could you be interested in that puny little girl?
ETHAN: Selena sits on the side of the bed. She removes a vial of liquid from her bodice. I saw you
SELENA: Selena sits on the side of the bed. She removes a vial of liquid from her bodice. I saw you
SELENA: ( continuing )
ETHAN: you don't know who I am.
SELENA: you don't know who I am.
ETHAN: Power. Give in, stop fighting me, Ethan. I always get what I want.
SELENA: Power. Give in, stop fighting me, Ethan. I always get what I want.
ETHAN: The door opens and a NURSE walks in.
NURSE: Would you stop screaming. There are sick people trying to sleep.
ETHAN: Get her away from me. She's crazy.
NURSE: ( to Selena )
SELENA: They're over for you sweetheart. Selena removes the gargoyle-shaped box from her sleeve and opens the lid. The OMEGAHEDRON inside spins and sends out a powerful force, which slides the nurse backwards out the door and pins her to the wall of the corridor outside. The door slams shut. Selena closes the lid of the Coffer and turns to Ethan.
SELENA: Now you see who you're dealing with. Ethan scrambles out of the bed and away from her, backing toward the window.
ETHAN: Selena, at the bed, discovers his sketch of Supergirl on the piece of cardboard.
SELENA: This is your problem, right here. This girl's driving you insane, Ethan. Let me help you.
ETHAN: Selena reaches out a hand to Ethan.
SELENA: Selena reaches out a hand to Ethan.
ETHAN: I never met a man I couldn't haveand you're no different from the rest! The door opens behind her and TWO SECURITY OFFICERS push inside, with guns drawn.
SELENA: I never met a man I couldn't haveand you're no different from the rest! The door opens behind her and TWO SECURITY OFFICERS push inside, with guns drawn.
SECURITY OFFICER: Okay, what's going on in h Selena gestures with the gargoyle box at the men and their guns fly out of their hands and up to the ceiling. The men stare at the ce1ling, astonished. Ethan takes advantage of the distraction to dash out through the open door. Selena turns to look at Ethan escaping and the guns fall to the floor and discharge. The security men run into Ethan's bathroom, slamming the door behind them. Selena ducks out into the corridor.
SELENA: Power of Shadow-seize him. The HEART-LUNG MACHINE comes to life-its lights flash, its array of tubes tipped with needle probes writhe like Medusa's hair, its wheels turn around, and it chases Ethan down the corridor. Selena laughs her deep throaty chuckle of triumph. Ethan looks behind, sees the machine chasing him and cries out with alarm. A CART OF SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS rolls out of a closet in front of him, its scalpels standing up and pointing at him, quivering eagerly, blocking his path. Ethan dives through a swinging door to his left.
NURSE: Doctor, I think you' re going to have a gas INT. X-RAY ROOM Ethan bursts into an empty surgical X-Ray room-the pursuing apparatus visible a few yards behind. He slams the heavy lead-lined door and bolts it shut. He hears the thud of the apparatus beating impotently against the door. He leans against the door panting, his cotton hospital gown and robe soaked with cold sweat. Suddenly, with a whir of motors, the giant multi-armed C.A.T. SCANNER behind him comes to life, its lights glowing, and reaches out its chrome steel arms toward him. Ethan yells, runs across the room, climbs on a gurney, rips a metal grill off the wall, and dives into the air conditioning duct.
DOCTOR: INT. X-RAY ROOM Ethan bursts into an empty surgical X-Ray room-the pursuing apparatus visible a few yards behind. He slams the heavy lead-lined door and bolts it shut. He hears the thud of the apparatus beating impotently against the door. He leans against the door panting, his cotton hospital gown and robe soaked with cold sweat. Suddenly, with a whir of motors, the giant multi-armed C.A.T. SCANNER behind him comes to life, its lights glowing, and reaches out its chrome steel arms toward him. Ethan yells, runs across the room, climbs on a gurney, rips a metal grill off the wall, and dives into the air conditioning duct.
LUCY: A DELIVERY BOY enters with A SPECTACULAR FLORAL ARRANGEMENT.
DELIVERY BOY: a tip, Jimmy. Jimmy is acutely aware how pathetic his daffodils look as he fumbles in his pocket for a dollar for the delivery boy. Suddenly overhead there is a loud banging and clattering from the air-conditioning duct. Everyone looks up at the ceiling with alarm. But Linda's X-RAY VISION lets her alone recognize Ethan.
LUCY: a tip, Jimmy. Jimmy is acutely aware how pathetic his daffodils look as he fumbles in his pocket for a dollar for the delivery boy. Suddenly overhead there is a loud banging and clattering from the air-conditioning duct. Everyone looks up at the ceiling with alarm. But Linda's X-RAY VISION lets her alone recognize Ethan.
JIMMY: Gosh, what do you suppose .that is?
LINDA: Well, Lucy, it's nice to see you're feeling better. Nice to meet you, Jimmy.
LUCY: be a straight-A student-just kidding, thanks for coming. Her phone rings and she picks it up.
LINDA: be a straight-A student-just kidding, thanks for coming. Her phone rings and she picks it up.
LUCY: be a straight-A student-just kidding, thanks for coming. Her phone rings and she picks it up.
LUCY: Phillip! When are you gonna come see me?
JIMMY: Can I give you a lift?
LINDA: Linda's heart sinks as she realises she doesn't know how to get rid of him politely.
JIMMY: Linda's heart sinks as she realises she doesn't know how to get rid of him politely.
SELENA: Give up? Ethan takes a beat to make sure he's not hallucinating, then he summons new reserves of strength and runs over to the TALL BRICK SMOKESTACK from the hospital's incinerator.
ETHAN: He starts to climb up the steel ladder on the side of the chimney.
SELENA: What goes up must come down.
JIMMY: on the windshield. Does Clark get many tickets? Linda pauses, looking up at the sky.
LINDA: ( distractedly ) I wouldn't know. Look. Up in the sky. Jimmy follows the direction of her gaze.
JIMMY: Jimmy opens the trunk of his car, takes out his camera bag, removes his Nikon, and starts fumbling around trying to change his 50mm lens for a telephoto. Linda watches Ethan with an expression of growing concern on her face.
SELENA: Come down from there, you foo1.
SELENA: ( continuing ) .before you get blown off and kill yourself. Ethan is so surprised at hearing her voice so close that he looks around with a start, misses his footing, and nearly falls off the ladder.
LINDA: accident with Lucy?
JIMMY: accident with Lucy?
LINDA: The scoop of the year! He starts shooting film. His motor drive whirrs.
JIMMY: The scoop of the year! He starts shooting film. His motor drive whirrs.
SELENA: It'll be dark soon. And cold. Come down while you've got the chance.
ETHAN: No. She'll come for me. Like she did the last time. My angel. He starts to cough from the smoke and nearly loses his balance.
SELENA: She's not coming for you. I killed her. She's dead.
ETHAN: No. I don't believe you. It's not true. She's alive somewhere. My angel. My love He falls off the chimney, and catches himself on the lip of the brickwork. He hangs there by one hand.
SELENA'S VOICE: EXT. HOSPITAL ENTRANCE. JIMMY'S CAR Jimmy runs out of film. He frantically rips off the magazine and tries to load a fresh one, while Ethan dangles.
JIMMY: There goes my Pulitzer Prize. Linda steps around to the other side of his car. Bianca is staring up at the chimney from the driver's seat of the Cadillac. She doesn't see Linda lift up a sewer grating with her toe and drop noiselessly and suddenly out of sight into the storm drain below.
JIMMY: He turns to Bianca, who is looking up in the sky from beside the Cadillac.
JIMMY: Hey lady, did you see that? Bianca gives him a glance of contempt.
BIANCA: See what?
JIMMY: The girl-dressed like Supermancaught that guy in have your head examined.
BIANCA: have your head examined.
ETHAN: You're alive! She didn't kill you!
SUPERGIRL: she knows I love you.
ETHAN: she knows I love you.
SUPERGIRL: life. I'll die if I can't spend the rest of my life just looking at you, holding you in my arms.
ETHAN: life. I'll die if I can't spend the rest of my life just looking at you, holding you in my arms.
SUPERGIRL: EXT. HOSPITAL ENTRY. TWILIGHT Selena comes striding out 'of the hospital, scowling. Jimmy Olsen notices her, and senses her aura of power. He drops his useless Nikon into his camera bag and starts rummaging for another camera.
ETHAN: EXT. HOSPITAL ENTRY. TWILIGHT Selena comes striding out 'of the hospital, scowling. Jimmy Olsen notices her, and senses her aura of power. He drops his useless Nikon into his camera bag and starts rummaging for another camera.
BIANCA: No way. I'm not going to let that little hussy make a monkey out of me.
SELENA: No way. I'm not going to let that little hussy make a monkey out of me.
BIANCA: ( shrewdly ) Is it her that's bothering youor your gardener?
SELENA: I use men, but I'm not addicted to them. I can quit whenever I want. She gets in the back seat of the car, just as Jimmy Olsen snaps a photo of her with a Polaroid. Selena slams the car door and Bianca drives off. Jimmy examines the instant photo he just took. His eyes widen with wonder and the hair prickles on the back of his neck as he sees the image.
ETHAN: This is my favourite place in the city.
SUPERGIRL: Are you sure it's all right for us to be here?
ETHAN: They don't care, they're tearing it down for a shopping centre. He flips the last switch, which starts the Ferris wheel revolving slowly, like a great spiral galaxy in space. Soft music plays.
ETHAN: Like it?
SUPERGIRL: Yes. It reminds me of home.
ETHAN: Krypton once-but we moved it to inner space.
SUPERGIRL: Krypton once-but we moved it to inner space.
ETHAN: find something and I think you can he1p me.
SUPERGIRL: find something and I think you can he1p me.
ETHAN: They walk to the slowly revolving Ferris wheel and hop aboard one of the gondola cars.
ETHAN: I used to work here summers when I was a kid.
SUPERGIRL: Ethan, tell me more about this woman who's after you.
ETHAN: Let's talk about us, not her.
SUPERGIRL: Tell me where I can find her.
ETHAN: I don't want you to go near her. She's bad news.
SUPERGIRL: But be reasonable. If I don't do something to stop her she'll try again. And maybe hurt you.
ETHAN: our lives.
SUPERGIRL: you. Love changes everything. Love makes everything possib1e.
ETHAN: you. Love changes everything. Love makes everything possib1e.
SUPERGIRL: you. Love changes everything. Love makes everything possib1e.
ETHAN: you. Love changes everything. Love makes everything possib1e.
SUPERGIRL: All this talk about love, it's silly.
ETHAN: You don't like me? You hate me? There is such a look of tragedy on Ethan's face, that Supergirl is afraid he might instantly fling himself to his death if she said yes.
SUPERGIRL: Of Course I don't hate you. I don't hate anyone.
ETHAN: What do you feel about me?
SUPERGIRL: I.I don't know. This is all so sudden.
ETHAN: There's one sure way to find out how you feel.
SUPERGIRL: You're not afraid are you?
ETHAN: You're not afraid are you?
SUPERGIRL: You're not afraid are you?
ETHAN: You're not afraid are you?
SUPERGIRL: Of course not, but.there are things we don't understand.
ETHAN: If we wait until we understand everything we'll be dead. Come on. You can learn more from one kiss than from years in school.
SUPERGIRL: She closes her eyes, parts her lips, and leans forward.
SUPERGIRL: Their lips meet. Zowie.
ETHAN: Their lips meet. Zowie.
SELENA: What a touching scene! Her voice is like having a bucket of ice water dashed over you. Ethan and Supergirl pull apart. The Ferris wheel has carried them all the way around and back down again. Selena is standing beside them. Supergirl stands up and steps boldly out of the gondola to confront her.
SUPERGIRL: Who are you ?
SELENA: I am Selena. Give him to me. Now. Or you'll both be sorry.
SUPERGIRL: I don't scare that easily. Selena rummages down deep in her handbag and pulls out the gargoyle box.
SELENA: All right, Miss Know-it-all. If I can't have him, nobody can. She holds the gargoyle box out toward the Ferris wheel.
SELENA: Coffer of Shadow, show your Power!
SUPERGIRL: That ought to keep you out of my hair for a while.
SELENA: INT. DODGEM CAR TENT Ethan is holding on to his car desperately as all the other cars viciously ram into it. Suddenly his car is lifted up, carried through a hole in the tent roof, and off into the night sky.
SUPERGIRL: INT. DODGEM CAR TENT Ethan is holding on to his car desperately as all the other cars viciously ram into it. Suddenly his car is lifted up, carried through a hole in the tent roof, and off into the night sky.
ETHAN: He looks under the car. There she is, carrying him to safety. She smiles reassuringly.
SELENA: Yookoohoo! No, that's not it. Sis-o-reb! Nope. Bianca appears out of the shadows. Selena looks up, embarrassed.
BIANCA: Sure glad you didn't let make a monkey of you.
SELENA: Shut up, and get me a hacksaw. Bianca pauses uncertainly.
BIANCA: Why don't you use the Coffer of Shadow?
SELENA: ( evasively )
BIANCA: She didn't take it from you, did she?
SELENA: That little girl? Ha. Now go on, get me some tools.
BIANCA: There's no need. I learned the Craft from my grandmother. Bianca takes out a bundle of twigs from her pocket and strokes the bars of the fence with it.
BIANCA: The bars fall down like boiled spaghetti. Selena steps out of the circle of confinement with queenly dignity.
SELENA: Good. Now bring the car. We must call a meeting of the seven. Bianca bows.
BIANCA: Bianca hurries off toward the parking lot. Selena watches her until she turns the corner of the Haunted House. Then Selena kneels down and carefully reaches under the deck of the carousel for the GARGOYLE BOX.
SELENA: There you are. Come to mama. She takes out the box, s1ips it inside her cloak, and stands up. She casts a last glance around the scene of her defeat, and strides off after Bianca.
SUPERGIRL: I thought I'd show you one of my favourite places.
ETHAN: But I have to go back. I brought you here so you'd be safe. From her.
SUPERGIRL: But I have to go back. I brought you here so you'd be safe. From her.
ETHAN: His words strike a sensitive nerve in her. She relents.
SUPERGIRL: Ethan is filled with enthusiasm.
ETHAN: Great! I'II build a house right over there, with a veranda looking out to sea. And I'll plant a garden! Papayas, pineapples, bananas, mangoes- anything'll grow here. And I'II fish in the lagoon, and we can go sailing in a dugout canoe, and-
SUPERGIRL: Ethan's face falls. He looks at her beseechingly.
SUPERGIRL: Well, maybe a little longer than that. She smiles and takes his hand. Together they walk along the beach.
SELENA: ELD ERL Y MAN walk out.
SELENA: ELDERLY MAN INT. SELENA'S LIVING ROOM. CANDLELIT. NIGHT Waiting for her are an extraordinary group of people, all of whom we met or glimpsed briefly at the garden party. Bianca is talking to ERICA, a red-haired female dwarf. A proud, barefoot AMERICAN INDIAN WOMAN in fringed doeskin is talking to a muscular, young BLACK MAN in a cashmere suit with lots of gold and diamond jewelry. NIGEL is sulking in the bar, his face covered with tannisroot ointment. Selena enters with the Elderly Man in the banker pinstripe. They all form a circle in the centre of the room.
ELDERLY MAN: INT. SELENA'S LIVING ROOM. CANDLELIT. NIGHT Waiting for her are an extraordinary group of people, all of whom we met or glimpsed briefly at the garden party. Bianca is talking to ERICA, a red-haired female dwarf. A proud, barefoot AMERICAN INDIAN WOMAN in fringed doeskin is talking to a muscular, young BLACK MAN in a cashmere suit with lots of gold and diamond jewelry. NIGEL is sulking in the bar, his face covered with tannisroot ointment. Selena enters with the Elderly Man in the banker pinstripe. They all form a circle in the centre of the room.
SELENA: Let us begin. I invoke the rule of seven.
NIGEL: this, Selena.
SELENA: with powers far beyond those of anyone member of the Craft.
INDIAN WOMAN: knows we exist..
SELENA: knows we exist..
ELDERLY MAN: ELDERLY MAN become curious and learn more. When she learns we plan to restore the ancient religion of this planet and avenge the centuries of persecution-she will try to stop us.
NIGEL: ELDERLY MAN become curious and learn more. When she learns we plan to restore the ancient religion of this planet and avenge the centuries of persecution-she will try to stop us.
ELDERLY MAN: become curious and learn more. When she learns we plan to restore the ancient religion of this planet and avenge the centuries of persecution-she will try to stop us.
BIANCA: By the Rite of Ultimate Power. One person must volunteer to take on the combined power of us all. Nigel stands up and points an accusing finger at Selena.
ERICA: By the Rite of Ultimate Power. One person must volunteer to take on the combined power of us all. Nigel stands up and points an accusing finger at Selena.
SELENA: By the Rite of Ultimate Power. One person must volunteer to take on the combined power of us all. Nigel stands up and points an accusing finger at Selena.
NIGEL: Selena reacts calmly, speaking in low, modulated tones, as if to an overstimulated child.
SELENA: Nige1, you know the one who takes on Ultimate Power must sacrifice the last sparks of her own spirit. Selena takes hold of a golden chain hanging around her neck and draws out a little glass vial attached to it. Inside the glass vial a tiny spark glows brightly.
SELENA: ( continuing ) Which of you is willing to make that sacrifice?
NIGEL: You would! You revealed our existence so you could have all of our power.
SELENA: of Shadow too much. It is beginning to rule your heart.
NIGEL: of Shadow too much. It is beginning to rule your heart.
SELENA: Nigel pulls aside the heavy veil covering her mirror.
BIANCA: They all draw their sacred white-handled knives out of concealment in their clothing. Nigel defiantly places his on the floor with its blade pointing inward. Then one by one, the others put down their knives with the blades pointing outward. They all look at Nigel. His shoulders sag with dejection.
SELENA: I invoke the rule of seven. Do you agree? Nigel speaks with the voice of someone pronouncing his own death sentence.
NIGEL: His knife turns by itself on the floor until its blade points outward. Everyone joins hands in the circle. A fire springs to life on the hearth. Someone starts to chant in a strange ancient tongue. Slowly the heavy, opulent living room begins to change: the carpet becomes the floor of an ancient stone temple with dark brown stains splattered across its massive granite blocks, the walls start to melt away. Outside the windows the dark night is replaced by hot, brutal sunlight pounding down on an endless desert stretching away to the horizon. The house completely dissolves and is replaced by monumental stone ruins. The smoky fire crackles and sends its dark plumes boiling skyward. The only thing remaining of Selena's house is the hearth and the Coffer of Shadow. Selena stands up And walks out of the centre of the circle toward the Coffer. She opens the lid. She pulls the glass vial off the golden chain around her neck and drops it into the Coffer.
SUPERGIRL: Ethan, what IS wrong? Ethan opens his eyes and looks at her. He speaks in a voice of bleak despair.
ETHAN: She said it wouldn't last.
SUPERGIRL: What wouldn't last? What's the matter with you? Ethan sits up, wincing like someone with a bad hangover.
ETHAN: I don't love you any more.
SUPERGIRL: He struggles to his feet and stands there unsteadily.
ETHAN: He struggles to his feet and stands there unsteadily.
ETHAN: I feel awful. All that romantic garbage. All that mushy talk. He lurches off into the undergrowth, toward the interior of the island. She plunges into the vegetation keeping pace with him.
SUPERGIRL: Because you remind me of all the dumb things I said.
ETHAN: Because you remind me of all the dumb things I said.
SUPERGIRL: Because you remind me of all the dumb things I said.
ETHAN: Because you remind me of all the dumb things I said.
SUPERGIRL: I sort of like what you said.
ETHAN: That makes it worse.
SUPERGIRL: But I don't understand. He stops and stares at her for a moment.
ETHAN: Of course you don't. We're from two different worlds, remember? He stalks off into the jungle, leaving her behind, hurt and bewildered.
SELENA: At last. Ultimate Power.
BIANCA: And the first thing we do is get rid of Supergirl!
SELENA: What do you mean we? She turns on the kneeling six. They cringe from her. Selena raises her hands and the kneeling six cry out in fear.
ETHAN: Hello. Are you still mad at me?
SUPERGIRL: Hello. Are you still mad at me?
ETHAN: I'm not mad at you.
SUPERGIRL: It seemed that way to me.
ETHAN: I know I was acting funny-I'm sorry. It's just.I miss it.
SUPERGIRL: What I had before. What's not there now. It's like I woke up and found part of me wasn't there any more: something that made me feel really alive and aware of things. It was like, for the first time in my life, everything fitted together perfectly-you and me and the world around uslike we were a wonderful song. He falls silent, and tosses a few pebbles into the stream.
ETHAN: What I had before. What's not there now. It's like I woke up and found part of me wasn't there any more: something that made me feel really alive and aware of things. It was like, for the first time in my life, everything fitted together perfectly-you and me and the world around uslike we were a wonderful song. He falls silent, and tosses a few pebbles into the stream.
SUPERGIRL: And now?
ETHAN: And now.the guitars are out of tune, and the words don't make sense, and somebody unplugged the mike.
SUPERGIRL: if you had that feeling once.it can, come back. He turns to her hopefully.
ETHAN: Feelings are real. Once you've had them, they're yours Ethan's face lights up. The future begins to exist for him again.
SUPERGIRL: Feelings are real. Once you've had them, they're yours Ethan's face lights up. The future begins to exist for him again.
ETHAN: Feelings are real. Once you've had them, they're yours Ethan's face lights up. The future begins to exist for him again.
SUPERGIRL: Feelings are real. Once you've had them, they're yours Ethan's face lights up. The future begins to exist for him again.
ETHAN: Hey, listen, when all this blows over, maybe we could get together every now and then and see each other. And maybe something might. happen again. What do you think?
SUPERGIRL: Why not? You're a good-looking girl. And I'm- INT. SELENA'S LIVING ROOM In the polished surface of her mirror, Selena makes a scene appear: Ethan and Supergirl on the tropical island.
ETHAN: Why not? You're a good-looking girl. And I'm- INT. SELENA'S LIVING ROOM In the polished surface of her mirror, Selena makes a scene appear: Ethan and Supergirl on the tropical island.
SUPERGIRL: CUT TO: INT. SELENA'S LIVING ROOM In the polished surface of her mirror, Selena makes a scene appear: Ethan and Supergirl on the tropical island.
ETHAN: CUT TO: INT. SELENA'S LIVING ROOM In the polished surface of her mirror, Selena makes a scene appear: Ethan and Supergirl on the tropical island.
SUPERGIRL: ( image ) There's something very dangerous about her. Something evil.
ETHAN: ( image ) I know what it is. She has this lead container shaped like a gargoyle. Inside there's a silvery ring.
SUPERGIRL: That's the Power Source that was lost from Argo City! That's what I came: to find! Where does she live?
ETHAN: stay away from there.
SUPERGIRL: thing I can't see through is lead, that's why I didn't see the Power Source at the amusement park. She stands up.
ETHAN: Wait. Don't leave me.
SUPERGIRL: You'll be safe here. I'll come back as soon as I have the Power Source. He stands up and takes her hand.
ETHAN: She closes her eyes and parts her lips. Slowly their lips come together and touch. Then a sudden rush of sheer desire flows through them and the simple experimental kiss become an ecstatic prelude to the heights of lovemaking. But before either one of them can go one step further, ETHAN DISAPPEARS WITH A FLASH OF BLINDING WHITE LIGHT. A cloud darkens the sun, and the trees are lashed into a frenzy by gale-force winds. Selena's laughter can be heard from somewhere far away.
SUPERGIRL: She closes her eyes and parts her lips. Slowly their lips come together and touch. Then a sudden rush of sheer desire flows through them and the simple experimental kiss become an ecstatic prelude to the heights of lovemaking. But before either one of them can go one step further, ETHAN DISAPPEARS WITH A FLASH OF BLINDING WHITE LIGHT. A cloud darkens the sun, and the trees are lashed into a frenzy by gale-force winds. Selena's laughter can be heard from somewhere far away.
ETHAN: She closes her eyes and parts her lips. Slowly their lips come together and touch. Then a sudden rush of sheer desire flows through them and the simple experimental kiss become an ecstatic prelude to the heights of lovemaking. But before either one of them can go one step further, ETHAN DISAPPEARS WITH A FLASH OF BLINDING WHITE LIGHT. A cloud darkens the sun, and the trees are lashed into a frenzy by gale-force winds. Selena's laughter can be heard from somewhere far away.
SUPERGIRL: She closes her eyes and parts her lips. Slowly their lips come together and touch. Then a sudden rush of sheer desire flows through them and the simple experimental kiss become an ecstatic prelude to the heights of lovemaking. But before either one of them can go one step further, ETHAN DISAPPEARS WITH A FLASH OF BLINDING WHITE LIGHT. A cloud darkens the sun, and the trees are lashed into a frenzy by gale-force winds. Selena's laughter can be heard from somewhere far away.
ETHAN: She closes her eyes and parts her lips. Slowly their lips come together and touch. Then a sudden rush of sheer desire flows through them and the simple experimental kiss become an ecstatic prelude to the heights of lovemaking. But before either one of them can go one step further, ETHAN DISAPPEARS WITH A FLASH OF BLINDING WHITE LIGHT. A cloud darkens the sun, and the trees are lashed into a frenzy by gale-force winds. Selena's laughter can be heard from somewhere far away.
SUPERGIRL: Supergirl flies into the air.
SUPERGIRL: Hey take it easy. I won't hurt you.
BIANCA: I thought .it was her, coming back. Spared me. But I thought. . . maybe changed her mind. Nigel warned us. Wouldn't listen to him.
SUPERGIRL: No. Don't want to know. She's bad. Don't go near her. Hurt you.
BIANCA: No. Don't want to know. She's bad. Don't go near her. Hurt you.
SUPERGIRL: Supergirl looks into Bianca's eyes with her calm, heroic gaze, and Bianca comes somewhat to her senses. Bianca points to the adjoining bar. Supergirl walks over warily and sees FIVE GOLDEN CAGES suspended among the bottles. Nigel and the four remaining members of the Circle are imprisoned in them, shrunken but alive. Nige1 is in a perpetually turning squirrel wheel. He sees her and calls out.
NIGEL: Supergirl! She's waiting for you. On Taliesen Mountain. Stop her before it's too late! Supergirl gets a look of determination on her face. She turns and flies out through the French doors and heads straight up into the air.
ETHAN: I'm wise to your tricks, lady.
SELENA: I could force you.
ETHAN: If that worked, you would've done it already. No, you want me to drink it of my own free will. Well let me tell you, sweetheart, it'll be a cold day in hell before I fall for that one again.
SELENA: She puts the glass of water in a, basket at the end of an iron chain hanging down from above. There is a straw in the glass at such an angle that Ethan can just reach it with his lips if he stretches as far as possible.
SELENA: You've been without water for a whole day. Let's see how thirsty you get in a week.
ETHAN: She glances meaningfully at the faggots piled around his feet and walks away. THE CAMERA FOLLOWS HER revealing that she has been talking to Ethan inside the mammoth fireplace of her living room. Her new house is enormous. Where before she lived in a mansion, now she dwells in a palace. The fireplace is seven feet high, the living room floor is wide as a football field, and. the French windows into the garden now tower like the windows in the North transept of Chartres Cathedral. Selena disappears out the imposing portals which lead to the wet bar and butler's pantryeach now the size of a basketball court. Back in the fireplace, Ethan cranes his neck to make sure she has gone, then reaches out toward the glass hanging nearby. He pokes the straw with his forehead. The glass swings slightly. The glass swings close enough for him to bump it with his forehead and set up a rhythm. He gauges the swing of the glass and, at the precise moment, grabs for it with his mouth. He catches hold of the rim of the glass with his teeth and holds it there for a moment as he summons his courage to do what must be done. He bites hard on the rim of the glass with his teeth. The glass shatters and falls to the floor with a crash, leaving Ethan with a small fragment of the rim in his mouth and a trickle of blood down his chin. He leans his head over until it is directly above his left hand tied to the stake two and a half feet below his shoulders. A droplet of blood falls into his hand. He drops the glass fragment down to his hand and catches it. He grins, and sighs with relief. Then spits to clear his mouth. Slowly he saws. at the ropes that hold him with the sliver of glass in his left hand. One by one the strands part. Ethan strains against his bonds and the weakened rope snaps. He quickly disentangles himself from the coils and steps out of the fireplace. He looks around the mammoth room. The coast is clear. He spits a few bits of glass out of his mouth, and dashes out of the doors to the garden.
SELENA: She glances meaningfully at the faggots piled around his feet and walks away. THE CAMERA FOLLOWS HER revealing that she has been talking to Ethan inside the mammoth fireplace of her living room. Her new house is enormous. Where before she lived in a mansion, now she dwells in a palace. The fireplace is seven feet high, the living room floor is wide as a football field, and. the French windows into the garden now tower like the windows in the North transept of Chartres Cathedral. Selena disappears out the imposing portals which lead to the wet bar and butler's pantryeach now the size of a basketball court. Back in the fireplace, Ethan cranes his neck to make sure she has gone, then reaches out toward the glass hanging nearby. He pokes the straw with his forehead. The glass swings slightly. The glass swings close enough for him to bump it with his forehead and set up a rhythm. He gauges the swing of the glass and, at the precise moment, grabs for it with his mouth. He catches hold of the rim of the glass with his teeth and holds it there for a moment as he summons his courage to do what must be done. He bites hard on the rim of the glass with his teeth. The glass shatters and falls to the floor with a crash, leaving Ethan with a small fragment of the rim in his mouth and a trickle of blood down his chin. He leans his head over until it is directly above his left hand tied to the stake two and a half feet below his shoulders. A droplet of blood falls into his hand. He drops the glass fragment down to his hand and catches it. He grins, and sighs with relief. Then spits to clear his mouth. Slowly he saws. at the ropes that hold him with the sliver of glass in his left hand. One by one the strands part. Ethan strains against his bonds and the weakened rope snaps. He quickly disentangles himself from the coils and steps out of the fireplace. He looks around the mammoth room. The coast is clear. He spits a few bits of glass out of his mouth, and dashes out of the doors to the garden.
SELENA: I told you I'd win.
SELENA: Kiss me.
SUPERGIRL: She leaps into the shallow pool, and sinks over her head. A polygonal section of the surface of the reflecting pool detaches itself from the water and rises up perpendicularly. It is a door to the Phantom Zone. Supergirl is trapped behind an impenetrable force field, looking out in despair. Ethan is not there with her. His image has disappeared. The real flesh and blood Ethan appears with Selena from behind the strangler fig. They look in at Supergirl trapped behind the shimmering polygon that la ads to the Phantom Zone. Selena laughs at her, but Ethan stares as if at a long forgotten acquaintance whose name he is trying to recall. Selena notices Ethan's wandering attention and she puts her arms possessively around him.
SELENA: Enjoy your prison, Supergirl. It's forever. Supergirl calls out to Ethan, her hands and face pressed against the transparent wall of her prison, but no sound can escape the impenetrable force field.
SUPERGIRL: Ethan! Don't let her do this! Beyond the threshold of the zone, Selena in her conservatory kisses Ethan with fierce lust. He returns her , emotion, forgetting all about Supergirl.
SUPERGIRL: The image of Selena and Ethan begins to recede, getting smaller and smaller, until it vanishes entirely in infinite blackness.
ALURA'S VOICE: ALURA. S VOICE from the scanners.
KARA: ALURA. S VOICE from the scanners.
KARA: I'm lost, Mother. In some awful place. I can't fly anymore. And I'm weak.
ALURA'S VOICE: Power Source. The City is dying.
KARA: Then send someone else. I failed.
ALURA'S VOICE: We can't. The' dimension barrier is stronger. We no longer have the power to push through.
KARA: But Mother, I'm lost.
KARA: Kara puts her face in her hands and starts to sob hopelessly.
SELENA: Nations of the world! I bring you tidings of a new age! The President of the General Assembly starts to shout at her and bang on the podium with his gavel. Selena looks over her shoulder with mild annoyance. Instantly the President's gavel turns into a live eel. The President drops it with horror. Selena continues her speech.
SELENA: I bring you a return to the ancient true worship of Nature, our Sovereign Queen and Mother. And I bring you myself as her representative here on Earth. The URITANIAN suddenly recovers his wits and tries to place a hand on Selena's shoulder. A whirlwind hurls him off the podium into the desks of the front row delegates. The delegates babble in consternation but keep to their seats. Selena raises her voice to be heard over the uproar.
SELENA: From this moment forth, all science, religion and other unnatural beliefs are forbidden. And in their place I will teach the One True Way of our ancient The President of the General Assembly has recovered enough from the surprise of the eel to interrupt Selena.
PRESIDENT: You are talking about the end of Civilisation as we know it.
SELENA: you represent, but it will take more than a few threats from you to make mankind turn back the clock and abandon thousands of years of progress. Selena has listened with a mocking smile as he speaks. He finishes to a smattering of applause from some of the delegates.
PRESIDENT: you represent, but it will take more than a few threats from you to make mankind turn back the clock and abandon thousands of years of progress. Selena has listened with a mocking smile as he speaks. He finishes to a smattering of applause from some of the delegates.
SELENA: Threats? I don't need threats to destroy civilisation. I have something better. She snaps her fingers in the air. Immediately a RAIN OF MONEY BEGINS TO FALL ALL OVER THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY. PAPER MONEY AND COINS OF ALL NATIONS. Selena looks at her work with pleasure. Then she disappears in a FLASH OF LIGHT. The delegates blink with astonishment. The only trace of her presence is the tang of sulfur in the air-and the money. One delegate forgets his dignity and starts scooping up money from his desk and stuffing it into his pockets. Suddenly all the delegates are doing the same thing. The only exception is the delegate from the United Kingdom who thinks it might be beneath his dignity, and looks about with mild disapproval.
SUPERGIRL: Zaltar drops his wand and comes running over to Supergirl. He kneels beside her on the sandy ground.
ZALTAR: Kara? Is it you? Supergirl nods. She is obviously exhausted. Zaltar takes the bulb full of liquid off his belt and offers her a drink. She drinks thirstily of the refreshing green liquid, and feels strength returning to her body.
SUPERGIRL: come here from Argo City?
ZALTAR: come here from Argo City?
SUPERGIRL: to the Phantom Zone.
ZALTAR: to the Phantom Zone.
SUPERGIRL: to the Phantom Zone.
ZALTAR: to the Phantom Zone.
SUPERGIRL: to the Phantom Zone.
ZALTAR: unleash all sorts of terrible forces-
SUPERGIRL: You can stay with me, until I build you your own place. I expect you won't want to mix with the others not our type of people. He helps her to her feet and over to his house, a sort of Argonian gothic cathedral half-buried in the sand. The curves of the arches and the materials are strongly reminiscent of Zaltar's work on Argo City.
ZALTAR: You can stay with me, until I build you your own place. I expect you won't want to mix with the others not our type of people. He helps her to her feet and over to his house, a sort of Argonian gothic cathedral half-buried in the sand. The curves of the arches and the materials are strongly reminiscent of Zaltar's work on Argo City.
SUPERGIRL: Zaltar gestures vaguely to the horizon on his right.
ZALTAR: Zaltar gestures vaguely to the horizon on his right.
ZALTAR: A few hundred parasangs that way. I avoid them. And you should too. Zaltar leads Supergirl past the singing sculptures. She smiles as she passes them, and remembers his "tree" in Argo City.
SUPERGIRL: Yes. Can't seem to get away from that style. Must try something new.
ZALTAR: Yes. Can't seem to get away from that style. Must try something new.
SUPERGIRL: Yes. Can't seem to get away from that style. Must try something new.
ZALTAR: Yes. Can't seem to get away from that style. Must try something new.
SUPERGIRL: just right. Nobody telling you to change this, move that around. Please yourself. That's the secret of happiness.
ZALTAR: just right. Nobody telling you to change this, move that around. Please yourself. That's the secret of happiness.
SUPERGIRL: What kind of a question is that? Of course: I am. I do whatever I want. All the time.
ZALTAR: What kind of a question is that? Of course: I am. I do whatever I want. All the time.
SUPERGIRL: They have reached the ground floor. Zaltar plucks one of the liquid filled bulbs from the stem of a large plant growing in a niche in the wall. He squirts some of the green liquid in his mouth with great satisfaction.
ZALTAR: I look at them all the time. Every planet in the galaxy. It's quite boring. Here, rub some of this onto that bruise. He carefully applies some of the green liquid to the wound on her scalp.
SUPERGIRL: You look at them? How?
ZALTAR: The Phantom Zone overlooks everywhere.. If you have the right tools. Zaltar sweeps the clutter off the table and onto the floor. He passes his hand over the table and instantly the table turns into a WINDOW INTO ANOTHER WORLD, showing an image of a herdboy riding on the back of a water buffalo in a rice paddy.
ZALTAR: There you see? What could be more boring than that? He waves his hand, and the image disappears.
SUPERGIRL: Wait. Could.could I see the place I just came from? Zaltar sighs with great martyrdom, and starts to fiddle with his controls.
ZALTAR: It'll only make you sad. He shows her the proper hand gestures to control the image.
ZALTAR: This goes closer. This moves it around. And this begins. He gestures with his hand and the WINDOW OPENS again. Supergirl ZOOMS THE IMAGE IN as fast as she can, trembling with desperate urgency. The IMAGE ON THE TABLE DISSOLVES FROM HIGH ABOVE A CITY DOWN TO :
SECRETARY: No more audiences today. Go home. All of you. Through the open door Selena can be glimpsed sitting .on her throne-like chair, with Ethan kneeling at her feet, resting his head in her lap like a pet animal.
SELENA: They want me. Doesn't it make you proud?
ETHAN: Selena gets up and walks over to the door leading out to her balcony.
SELENA: Ethan follows her sullenly.
SELENA: Smile, lunk-head. You're not a gardener any more, you're Prince Ethan now. Ethan lifts his hand and waves half-heartedly.
SUPERGIRL: make you sad. He starts to gesture the image away, but she puts her hand on his arm, stopping him.
ZALTAR: make you sad. He starts to gesture the image away, but she puts her hand on his arm, stopping him.
SUPERGIRL: No. I have to see this. Zaltar shrugs.
LUCY: I had to dump the papers in a trashcan. The Danvers have been arrested!
JIMMY: How do you know?
LUCY: I saw them dragged out of the Administration Building.
JIMMY: She kisses him on the nose.
LUCY: She kisses him on the nose.
JIMMY: She kisses him on the nose.
LUCY: Jimmy gives her another bundle of handbills. HELMETED GUARDS in the livery of Selena's service kick down the door. and rush in, weapons drawn. They smash up the print shop and arrest everybody. Jimmy and Lucy are handcuffed and dragged away.
JIMMY: I sure wish Superman was around. He wouldn't let any of this go on. Not for one minute.
LUCY: I heard stories. I don't think you wanna know. There is the clank of an iron door, and Ethan enters the prison with several of the guards in Selena's livery. He walks past the cells, glancing now and then with compassion at the poor wretches inside. Lucy calls out as he passes.
JIMMY: I heard stories. I don't think you wanna know. There is the clank of an iron door, and Ethan enters the prison with several of the guards in Selena's livery. He walks past the cells, glancing now and then with compassion at the poor wretches inside. Lucy calls out as he passes.
LUCY: Remember me? We were in a disaster together.
ETHAN: Remember me? We were in a disaster together.
LUCY: Remember me? We were in a disaster together.
LUCY: Right! Say, do you swing any weight around here?
ETHAN: A little.
LUCY: Can you get us out? It's all a misunderstanding. We thought they were selling hamburgers in that place.
ETHAN: He turns to go, but Jimmy reaches out and grabs his sleeve.
JIMMY: The blonde girl who saved your life-where is she now? Ethan pauses. Buried memories rise to the surface of his mind, bringing pain.
ETHAN: She's gone. No one will ever see her again.
SUPERGIRL: They need me. Zaltar looks pained, and takes several deep drinks of green plant sap before he answers.
ZALTAR: They need me. Zaltar looks pained, and takes several deep drinks of green plant sap before he answers.
SUPERGIRL: They need me. Zaltar looks pained, and takes several deep drinks of green plant sap before he answers.
ZALTAR: There's no way out of the Zone. No one's ever escaped. That's why they send the criminals here.
SUPERGIRL: If there's a way in, there must be a way out.
ZALTAR: No, that's not true-there's well.no He suddenly has an idea, vaguely forming at the back of his drink-sodden brain. He toys with it, while Supergirl leans forward eagerly, waiting. He changes his mind several times about whether it's possible or not, each time changing his facial expression. Supergirl has the feeling she's watching a debate conducted by squints and grimaces.
ZALTAR: if it didn't work you'd be swept into a singularity- no, you'd never make it. Forget I mentioned it. Supergirl's heart sinks. She rocks back, clutching her knees, trying not to show her sadness.
SUPERGIRL: if it didn't work you'd be swept into a singularity- no, you'd never make it. Forget I mentioned it. Supergirl's heart sinks. She rocks back, clutching her knees, trying not to show her sadness.
ZALTAR: if it didn't work you'd be swept into a singularity- no, you'd never make it. Forget I mentioned it. Supergirl's heart sinks. She rocks back, clutching her knees, trying not to show her sadness.
SUPERGIRL: if it didn't work you'd be swept into a singularity- no, you'd never make it. Forget I mentioned it. Supergirl's heart sinks. She rocks back, clutching her knees, trying not to show her sadness.
ZALTAR: if it didn't work you'd be swept into a singularity- no, you'd never make it. Forget I mentioned it. Supergirl's heart sinks. She rocks back, clutching her knees, trying not to show her sadness.
ZALTAR: I could do it. She is suddenly all excitement and hopefulness again.
SUPERGIRL: one go. A thing like that. No. Sure you don't want a sip of this? It's delicious, I think. He takes another sip of his drink.
ZALTAR: one go. A thing like that. No. Sure you don't want a sip of this? It's delicious, I think. He takes another sip of his drink.
SUPERGIRL: He looks at her shrewdly, appraising her abilities with a suddenly lucid glance.
ZALTAR: Takes a long time, you know, learning the wand. Just begun to understand it myse1f. Give things a kind of lifecan also take away life; works backwards too. Besides I can't let you take my wand. Only have the one, what would I do? I'd be helpless. It's out of the question.
SUPERGIRL: Leave the zone? What would I do on Earth?
ZALTAR: Leave the zone? What would I do on Earth?
SUPERGIRL: You could do anything. You could sculpt mountain ranges.draw with rainbows! You'd have superpowers.
ZALTAR: Superpowers. Got you in a lot of trouble, didn't they?
SUPERGIRL: in trouble. And unless I bring back the Power Source, Argo City will die. He looks at her kneeling beside his couch, tears streaming down her cheeks, pleading with him.
ZALTAR: He stands up, takes his matterwand, and heads for the stairs up to the surface. Supergirl can hardly believe her plea has been granted. She runs after him, up the stairs.
SUPERGIRL: You're going to take me back?
ZALTAR: Going to try. Didn't say I could.
SUPERGIRL: I heard my mother ask you once "how could a man with such a selfish heart create beauty?" She was wrong, Zaltar, you have a generous that's all. Wretched singing sculptures, always yowling at you. Boring! Supergirl scampers along beside him, smiling. Zaltar never looks back at his abandoned house, but keeps his gaze fixed on the horizon straight ahead.
ZALTAR: that's all. Wretched singing sculptures, always yowling at you. Boring! Supergirl scampers along beside him, smiling. Zaltar never looks back at his abandoned house, but keeps his gaze fixed on the horizon straight ahead.
LUCY: Hey, I thought you were gonna mention us upstairs.
ETHAN: I did.
LUCY: ( bitterly ) Well thanks a pile, fella. Ethan watches them dragged away. He has a puzzled expression on his face.
ETHAN: Selena snaps irritably at him.
SELENA: I don't know. You seem afraid.
ETHAN: I don't know. You seem afraid.
SELENA: You're a regular Einstein, aren't you?
ETHAN: ( the truth dawns on him ) Selena doesn't answer, but looks back at the mirror. Ethan moves to her side and watches with her the IMAGE OF THE PHANTOM ZONE.
SELENA: Quit staring so hard. You'll strain your eyes. She puts her hand on his cheek. He turns away from the image of Supergirl and looks deep in Selena's eyes.
ETHAN: You're not going to hurt her, are you? Selena is furious. Her eyes get that dangerous look.
SELENA: You can't put her out of your mind, is that it?
ETHAN: Well.I guess I can't.
SELENA: I'm ready for her. I'll show you. Selena walks out the French doors followed by the dazed Ethan.
SELENA: Unless Supergirl agrees to go away forever, the serpents will drop them one by one. Selena puts a small silver whistle to her lips and blows a high, melodious note. The fifth serpent opens his jaws and releases the empty cage into the pool.
ETHAN: Why the empty cage?
SELENA: see how you behave when Supergirl gets here. I'd hate to lose you, Ethan. Selena steps beside him and puts her hand on his shoulder. Ethan cries out with terror. Selena looks down at what he sees.
ETHAN: You don't get this far without paying.a certain price. She turns and walks quickly out of the conservatory, followed by Ethan.
SELENA: You don't get this far without paying.a certain price. She turns and walks quickly out of the conservatory, followed by Ethan.
MR. DANVERS: If only I hadn't made that speech denouncing her.
JIMMY: ( shyly ) I've been in love with you for years. Remember how you used to visit your sister in the newsroom? And put your fingerprints on my lens.
LUCY: Remember? I was trying desperately to get you're all this time?
JIMMY: all this time?
LUCY: She reaches out her hand through the bars and clasps his bravely, like the Danvers.
JIMMY: She reaches out her hand through the bars and clasps his bravely, like the Danvers.
LUCY: She reaches out her hand through the bars and clasps his bravely, like the Danvers.
SUPERGIRL: Why are you stopping?
ZALTAR: Stopping? Was I? Silly. One thing you musn't do. He continues forward, and upward, firming their path with the matterwand. The wand creates a warm circle of white light around them in contrast to the monochromatic energy field of the Phantom Zone. Because of the inherent curvature of the Phantom Zone vortex, they seem to be scrambling up a sheer vertical wall now. Supergirl is close beside Zaltar helping him along, not merely following as she had before. The throbbing sound of energy waves surging down the vortex is growing louder as they proceed. Zaltar stumbles, and drops the matterwand.
ZALTAR: Oh dear! The vortex starts to sweep the wand backwards, down to where they have just climbed from. Supergirl makes a desperate lunge and retrieves the wand as it sweeps past. But now she is being swept backwards.
ZALTAR: Supergirl somehow finds the right grip on the controls and points the wand at the undulating surface beneath her. She stills the moving surface and stops her backwards motion.
ZALTAR: Good girl! That's the way! But now Zaltar is being swept backwards toward her. She points the wand at his feet and halts his downhill slide.
ZALTAR: You can use the wand.
SUPERGIRL: Better than when I was a child. She hands it back to him and they resume their slow upward progress.
ZALTAR: I remember you then. Cute thing you were. Like your mother.
ZALTAR: What's that? Never saw anything like that.
SUPERGIRL: Don't stop. Keep moving.
ZALTAR: ( grimly ) It's Selena. I'm getting so I can recognise her work. Another flaming sphere whizzes toward them. It hits Zaltar on the shoulder and knocks him off the safe path. He starts to roll backwards down the vortex.
SUPERGIRL: ( grimly ) It's Selena. I'm getting so I can recognise her work. Another flaming sphere whizzes toward them. It hits Zaltar on the shoulder and knocks him off the safe path. He starts to roll backwards down the vortex.
SUPERGIRL: Too late. Too late. Save yourself. He is being swept faster and .faster away from her, receding like the image of Ethan when she was trapped in the zone. Zaltar throws the wand to her, and then is swept away, out of sight, downward to his death. He calls out after he disappears.
ZALTAR: Too late. Too late. Save yourself. He is being swept faster and .faster away from her, receding like the image of Ethan when she was trapped in the zone. Zaltar throws the wand to her, and then is swept away, out of sight, downward to his death. He calls out after he disappears.
ZALTAR: ( voice over )
SUPERGIRL: She begins to be swept backwards, but she uses the wand, and stops her slide. Gripping the wand fiercely, she starts to forge ahead. All the while she has to dodge the flaming spheres that Selena sends down the vortex.
SUPERGIRL: You're not going to win, Selena. I won't let you. Suddenly Supergirl enters another area of the vortex. She begins to move forward, upward, without clawing her way. She accelerates, moving faster and faster.
SUPERGIRL: Zaltar, Zaltar. You never had a selfish heart. She looks up at the sun shining down serenely, bathing the Earth in its life-giving rays-and returning her superpowers to her.
SUPERGIRL: Wherever you are, Zaltar, thank 'you. She stands up and flexes her muscles. She no longer looks tired or disheveled. Her red and blue costume shines in the bright sunlight. She picks up the matterwand and leaps into the air, flying faster than a speeding bullet.
SUPERGIRL: You've had your fun, Selena, the game is over.
ETHAN: Ethan points to the conservatory and mimes the words 'out there'. Selena blows on the silver whistle on the chain around her neck.
SELENA: Ethan points to the conservatory and mimes the words 'out there'. Selena blows on the silver whistle on the chain around her neck.
SUPERGIRL: Ethan points to the conservatory and mimes the words 'out there'. Selena blows on the silver whistle on the chain around her neck.
JIMMY: Hey, what gives? The blast of superbreath blows the cages of Lucy and the Danvers away from the pool as well. The serpents loose their grip, arid the Danvers and Lucy land beside Jimmy in the fern bank.
SELENA: All right, Supergirl. The game's not over till the last card's dealt. Selena opens the lid of the grotesquely swollen Coffer of Shadow sitting beside her on the floor. The OMEGAHEDRON inside spins. All the FURNITURE in the room suddenly launches itself at Supergirl. Huge oak refectory tables, alabaster thrones, marble urns, iron firegrates, shie1ds and armour, bronze statuary, and razor sharp panes of glass from the windows all shatter themselves against her invulnerable body. Ethan stands in the corner, ducking the stray fragments that come his way.
SUPERGIRL: You've run out of things to throw, Selena.
SELENA: Not yet. Selena points her hand at Supergirl with a gesture of attack. The COFFER OF SHADOW emits a dense black mist that darkens the room. A giant invisible hand seizes Supergirl and hurls her into the alchemical bar with a crash of bottles. Supergirl stands up with the wand held in front of her to ward off another attack.
ETHAN: It's her shadow-self! Her dark side!
SUPERGIRL: How do I fight it?
ETHAN: Turn it against her. Supergirl raises the wand and APPLIES IT TO HER OWN BODY. THERE IS A FLASH OF BLINDING LIGHT, and Supergirl is transformed into a perfect image of Selena-as she was at the fairgrounds. There are now two Selenas in the room-the real one beside the Coffer of shadow, and the one holding the matterwand in the alchemical bar. The Real Selena is first astonished, and then furious.
REAL SELENA: Power of Shadow, kill her!! The Second Selena calls out to the SHADOW-SELF in Selena's own unmistakable voice.
SECOND SELENA: REAL SELENA The Real Selena is distracted by the duel of willpower with her double and doesn't notice Ethan creeping along the wall toward the Coffer of Shadow. Ethan lunges for the shining OMEGAHEDRON inside, and snatches it out just as the heavy lid slams shut with a clang of metal. Ethan rolls over and over on the floor, away from Selena, clutching the, shining ring to him like a football in the end zone after a quarterback sneak on a fourth down trailing seven to six with three seconds on the clock.
REAL SELENA: SECOND SELENA The Real Selena is distracted by the duel of willpower with her double and doesn't notice Ethan creeping along the wall toward the Coffer of Shadow. Ethan lunges for the shining OMEGAHEDRON inside, and snatches it out just as the heavy lid slams shut with a clang of metal. Ethan rolls over and over on the floor, away from Selena, clutching the, shining ring to him like a football in the end zone after a quarterback sneak on a fourth down trailing seven to six with three seconds on the clock.
SECOND SELENA: The Real Selena is distracted by the duel of willpower with her double and doesn't notice Ethan creeping along the wall toward the Coffer of Shadow. Ethan lunges for the shining OMEGAHEDRON inside, and snatches it out just as the heavy lid slams shut with a clang of metal. Ethan rolls over and over on the floor, away from Selena, clutching the, shining ring to him like a football in the end zone after a quarterback sneak on a fourth down trailing seven to six with three seconds on the clock.
ETHAN: I've got it! The Power Source! The Real Se1ena cries out with despair. And then the SHADOW attacks her. The Real Selena cries out as she is surrounded by a black mist that starts slowly choking the life out of her.
REAL SELENA: ( terrified ) No! Stop! Please! Ethan hands the Power Source to the Second Selena in the bar.
SECOND SELENA: Thank you. I'll take this back to Argo City.
ETHAN: It is you, then, really? Without a word, the Second Selena kisses him on the lips.
SECOND SELENA: It's you all right.
ETHAN: It's you all right.
SECOND SELENA: I'll make it easy for you. She again APPLIES THE WAND TO HER OWN BODY. There is a flash of light, and once more Supergirl stands before him, clutching both the Power Source and the wand.
ETHAN: I couldn't help what I did, before. She drugged me.
SUPERGIRL: I never doubted you for a moment.
REAL SELENA: Supergirl. Please! Help! I'm dying. Supergirl steps toward the corner of the room beside the mirror where the Real Selena is imprisoned in the cloud of blackness. Supergirl touches the SHADOW with her wand. There is a cosmic musical chord, and the SHADOW is destroyed; it falls to the floor in a rain of hard, dark cinders. The Real Selena rises from the corner of the room where she was released from the grip of the shadow. She looks at herself in the mirror. She is changed into the softer, more innocent person she was at the picnic before she found the Omegahedron. THERE IS NO MORE EVIL SHADOW LOOMING BEHIND HER IN THE MIRROR REFLECTION. She turns to Supergirl and Ethan.
SELENA: I'm free. I can never thank you enough.
SUPERGIRL: For what?
SELENA: Ever since I found that thing I've been like a prisoner in a terrible nightmare. You have no idea how awful it is to be mean all the time.
SUPERGIRL: Your nightmares are over. I'm taking this back to Argo City where it won't be misused. You could come too. It might be safer for you.
ETHAN: No thanks. I have friends in the resistance. They'll vouch for me. I figure I might get a million bucks for my memoirs.
SUPERGIRL: I'll come back as soon as I can.
SELENA: What about me? They'll make, hash out of me around Supergirl and Ethan exchange a glance. Selena's innocence is the one problem they have not foreseen.
ETHAN: She's right. They'll string her up.
SUPERGIRL: Do you want to come to Argo City?
SELENA: What's it like?
SUPERGIRL: It's the most beautiful place in the universe.
SELENA: Sounds O.K. to me. Let's go. Supergirl holds out the matterwand to Selena.
SUPERGIRL: Grab hold of this. It forms a force field for the journey through inner space. Selena grasps the matterwand and the two of them fly together out the French doors.
SUNSET: Selena and Supergirl fly over the ocean toward the setting sun.
SELENA: It's everywhere. But water is always the door. They plunge down into the sun's reflection on the sea surface.
SUPERGIRL: It's everywhere. But water is always the door. They plunge down into the sun's reflection on the sea surface.
SELENA: Will they be angry with me for stealing the Power Source?
SUPERGIRL: it, it would still be lost. Look, up ahead.
SELENA: Yes, I see it. Shining like a jewel.
SUPERGIRL: That's home.
THE END: Writers : David Odell
