J.J. HUNSECKER: "They eyes of Broadway"
DETAIL: The bundle of newspapers. It hits the sidewalk with a smack. CAMERA PULLS BACK as Sidney Falco crosses the sidewalk. The owner of the newsstand, IGGY, comes to pick up the bundle; he is a grizzled gnome with a philosophical sense of humor; Sidney snaps his fingers with impatience. Iggy wears spectacles and is clearly more or less blind, he has to grope for the cord that binds the papers.
IGGY: Aw Lady, if I looked like you, I'd
SIDNEY: ( recognizing Sidney's voice ) Keep ya sweatshirt on, Sidney.
IGGY: ( recognizing Sidney's voice ) Keep ya sweatshirt on, Sidney.
IGGY: Hey, Fresh, the Globe just came in Hey, Sidney, want an item for Hunsecker's column? Two rolls get fresh with a baker! Hey, hot, hot, hot etc.
SIDNEY FALCO: From inside comes the sound of desultory typing. Sidney comes up the stairs two at a time and turns into the door.
SALLY: Just a minute, Mr. Weldon. I I'm sorry. I thought that was Mr. Falco returning. Yes, I'll tell him when he comes in. I know he's been trying to reach you.
SALLY: ( to phone ) I'm sorry. I thought that was Mr. Falco returning. Yes, I'll tell him when he comes in. I know he's been trying to reach you.
SALLY: That's the third time he's called He wants me to break a leg?
SIDNEY: He wants me to break a leg?
SALLY: ( literally ) No, an arm, he said. ( then ) I told him you were sure the item would be in Mr. Hunsecker's column in tomorrow's.
SIDNEY: ( interrupting, sharply ) It isn't. I've just seen the early But what?
SALLY: But what?
SIDNEY: But what?
SALLY: That makes five days in a row that Mr. Hunsecker's cut you out of his May I rent you out as an adding
SIDNEY: May I rent you out as an adding
SIDNEY: Get me Joe Robard.
SIDNEY: Who else phoned?
SALLY: The renting agent and the tailor.
SIDNEY: Pay the rent. Let the tailor wait.
SALLY: It won't leave much of a balance in the bank. Mr. Robard? Could you locate him?
SIDNEY: ( gloomily ) Watch me run a fifty yard dash with my legs cut off! ( effusively ) Sidney, Joe. How do you like it? I'm running out of alibis! No, I asked Hunsecker to withhold the item, until he could give it a fine, fat paragraph. The column was running over and I didn't want you kissed off with just a line.
SIDNEY: ( effusively ) Sidney, Joe. How do you like it? I'm running out of alibis! No, I asked Hunsecker to withhold the item, until he could give it a fine, fat paragraph. The column was running over and I didn't want you kissed off with just a line.
ROBARD: ( in answer to Sidney ) Of course. ( he listens to protest from Sidney ) What is this, Sidney, a kissing game? You're a liar - that's a publicity man's nature. I wouldn't hire you if you wasn't a liar. I pay you a C-and-a-half a week wherein you plant big lies about me and the Club all over the map. ( a pause ) Yeah, I mean in that sense. But also in the sense that you are a personal liar, too, because you don't do the work I pay you for. ( new protests on the other end of the line ) Oh, stop it, Sidney. You're from the country, not me.
RESUME SIDNEY: Sally is watching him, unhappy on his behalf.
SIDNEY: ( to phone ) Now, wait a minute, Joe. When I saw J.J. last night he said.
SALLY: I wish I could help in some way, Help me with two minutes of silence!
SIDNEY: ( aggressively ) Help me with two minutes of silence!
SIDNEY: Go home, Sally. It's late.
SALLY: I hate to see you like this
SIDNEY: ( horsing around ) Yes, but as a new subscriber you're under no obligation to take more than three books. And if you mail the enclosed card within ten days
SALLY: ( pleadingly ) Sidney, I know you by now. Don't do a dance with me.
SIDNEY: ( still clowning ) You mean you don't want the extra free gift of a colorful giant map of the world???
SALLY: ( distressed ) Sidney, please, dear, if you feel
SIDNEY: ( with cruelty ) So what'll you do if I feel nervous? You'll open your meaty, sympathetic ( breaking down ) Sid.you got me so.I don't know
SALLY: ( breaking down ) Sid.you got me so.I don't know
SIDNEY: You ought to be used to me by now.
SALLY: ( pathetically ) I'm used to you.
SIDNEY: ( with a touch of bitterness ) No. You think I'm a hero. I'm no hero. I'm nice to people where it pays me to be. I gotta do it too much on the outside, so don't expect me to kow-tow in my own office. I'm in a bind right now with Hunsecker so ( grimly ) Every dog has his day! ( going ) Lock up and leave the key.
SIDNEY: If that's for me, tear it up!
SALLY: Take a top coat.
SIDNEY: And leave a tip in every hat-check room in town?
SALLY: Sidney Falco office. Oh, Miss Kay, he tried to reach you. No, he's at the barbers now. No, that's held over till the Tuesday
STEVE DALLAS: .the guitar, the leader again. It comes in after this short preamble with the first statement of melody. ( The tune has a faint echo of significance because it is one of the themes of the film, already heard as a phrase in the background score of the title music. ) CAMERA lingers a moment on the guitarist, STEVE DALLAS. He is a youth of pleasant, intelligent appearance. He plays with the intent air of the contemporary jazz musician who takes his work very seriously indeed and affects a much greater interest in the music and his fellow musicians than in the listening A close shot. Sidney has just entered the club, strolling into the vestibule near the entrance. He wears an expression of oddly unsuitable antagonism, as he looks forward.
SIDNEY: A close shot. Sidney has just entered the club, strolling into the vestibule near the entrance. He wears an expression of oddly unsuitable antagonism, as he looks forward.
DALLAS: Seen in long shot from Sidney's viewpoint. CAMERA moves to include Sidney in foreground again. He turns as he is accosted by RITA, the cigarette girl of the club. She is a pert creature, attractive and not unaware of the fact.
RITA: Don't you ever get messages, Eyelashes? I called you twice.
SIDNEY: ( irked ) I've been up to here. Listen, honey, tell me something. You know Susan Hunsecker.? ( Rita nods ) Has she been in? I mean lately, in the last coupla days.?
RITA: I don't think so.
SIDNEY: You're sure. Find out for me.
RITA: ( with a nod ) Sidney, can I talk to you a minute?
SIDNEY: Is Frank D'Angelo around?
RITA: At the bar - Sidney.
D'ANGELO: He is at the bar, listening with satisfaction to the music, watching the performers and studying the audience. Sidney comes up behind him. We see Sidney's eyes flick from D'Angelo towards the bandstand and back again. Then, as he takes the stool next to D'Angelo, he assumes a different manner, a sulky resentment. D'Angelo sees Sidney.
D'ANGELO: ( to the bartender ) Joe, give my nephew a drink.
SIDNEY: ( sullen ) Your nephew doesn't want a drink.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Shooting past D'Angelo and Sidney towards the bandstand.
D'ANGELO: That's a lollipop that, boy. The kid is only great.
SIDNEY: And with ten percent of his future, you're great, too, Frank.
D'ANGELO: Went over to Philly yesterday an' seen the folks.it's nice you send them the fifty a month.
SIDNEY: ( after a pause ) See my mother?
D'ANGELO: ( shaking his head ) I only had a few hours.
D'ANGELO: Thanks for the publicity spread you got the boys for the benefit Robard's my client. I did it for him and his club, not your boys.
SIDNEY: ( begrudgingly ) Robard's my client. I did it for him and his club, not your boys.
SIDNEY: ( quietly ) Frank, I think maybe you lied to me.
D'ANGELO: ( quietly ) Looka, Sidney, you're my own sister's son, but where does that give you the right to call me a liar?
SIDNEY: ( looking towards Steve ) You told me that your boy was washed up with Susie Hunsecker, didn't you?
D'ANGELO: Yeah, and it's the truth, to the best of my knowledge. And, frankly, I'm glad. For Steve's sake, I'm glad, not yours. I manage these boys and I got their best interests at heart. Steve shouldn't get mixed up with no bimbo at his age.
SIDNEY: ( narrowly ) You told him that?
D'ANGELO: Not in those exact words - you know what a temper he's got.
SIDNEY: When do these hot-headed boys of yours go on the road?
D'ANGELO: Coupla weeks. For eight weeks.
SIDNEY: That's a nice tour. All booked? When was Susie around here last?
D'ANGELO: Four five nights ago. That's how I know the romance is off. Also Steve's in a very bad mood.
SIDNEY: ( abruptly ) Listen, Frank, you'd better make sure you're telling me the truth.
D'ANGELO: ( annoyed ) I don't like this threatening attitude. When it comes to it, what the heck is it your business what they do, this boy and girl.
RITA: Locating Sidney, she comes up behind him. He turns away from D'Angelo as she whispers to him. As she departs, Sidney turns back.
SIDNEY: If you knew Hunsecker as well as I did, you might understand why it's my business. Maybe you're walking around blind, Frank, without a cane.
SIDNEY: .and in case you didn't know it, Susie Hunsecker's out there on the back step right now.
D'ANGELO: He looks disturbed.
CLOSER ANGLE: This is SUSAN HUNSECKER. She wears an expensive mink coat. It is oddly in contrast with her personality; the face is sensitive and intelligent, but childlike and tragic. A girl in adolescence already burdened with problems beyond her capacity. Over scene, the music continues. Susan shifts her position, knowing that the session will soon be at an end and that the musicians will be coming backstage.
QUINTET: The music comes sharply, dramatically to its finish. There is some applause. The boys relax. Steve reaches for the microphone and in the characteristically casual manner of the "cool" musician, announces the end of the set, thanking the audience, identifying the quintet by name and introducing the intermission pianist. During this, Carson, Chico and Paul wander off the bandstand behind him.
CHICO: Hi! Susie.
SUSAN: Hello, Chico. Paul.
CHICO: ( to Paul ) Throw a rope round this chick while I go get Steve.
SUSAN: Full house.?
PAUL: Packin' 'em in.
DEVOTEE: I'm terribly interested in jazz serious jazz. You studied with Milhaud, didn't you? This is such an interesting fusion of the traditional, classical form with the new progressive style, I just wanted to ask you how you came to form the group.-
CHICO: He comes through the curtains of the doorway, pausing as he sees that Steve is involved with the Intellectual Young Woman.
REVERSE ANGLE: Steve glancing at Chico over the shoulder of the Intellectual Young Woman. Seeing that Chico has something to say to him, he wriggles out of the young woman's clutches by passing the buck to the unfortunate to Fred Katz, who is descending from the bandstand behind him.
STEVE: Well, we just sort of got together. Maybe if you ask Mr. Katz.He writes the stuff, you know.
FRED: ( blankly )
RESUME CHICO: Steve joins Chico and they go through the curtains into the corridor outside.
CORRIDOR: Chico, smiling, explains:
CHICO: Don't waste your time there, man. You've got something better waiting Susie's out there.
STEVE: His reaction betrays some emotion. ( Over scene the intermission pianist has begun to play a Blues number. ) Steve moves a quick step towards the door to the courtyard, then hesitates - almost as if he was afraid to go out. He meets Chico's eye again.
STEVE: What did she say.?
CHICO: He is amused, but sympathetic.
CHICO: You proposed to her, not me. Go get your answer.
COURTYARD: Susan, waiting at the foot of the iron steps, turns as Steve comes out on the fire escape above. Steve comes quickly down the steps towards her, slowing down when he gets a few paces away from her.
SUSAN: She looks up at Steve.
STEVE: A CLOSE SHOT. In his expression we read his mute inquiry.
RESUME SUSAN: Quite deliberately, with her eyes moistened by love and affection.she nods.
REVERSE ANGLE: Great relief and happiness can be seen in the boy's face. After a moment, he moves to her and she to him. They embrace swiftly, hold each other close and then kiss with passion. Presently, when the kiss is over, Susan speaks Steve is still too choked with relief to speak. For answer, he clasps her more tightly to him. The beam of light which falls on the iron stairs behind them, narrows and then is Paul has closed the door. Turning, he shares a look with the grinning Chico and Fred Katz who has managed to escape from the young woman. Before there is time for either of them to make a remark, Sidney comes through the curtains from the Club.
SUSAN: ( in a whisper ) Steve.I'll.I'll try to make a good wife.
CORRIDOR: Paul has closed the door. Turning, he shares a look with the grinning Chico and Fred Katz who has managed to escape from the young woman. Before there is time for either of them to make a remark, Sidney comes through the curtains from the Club.
SIDNEY: Hi, Fellows. Where's the Chief?
FRED: ( who gets the point ) Dallas. Is he around? ( unhelpfully ) Yeah, he's around somewhere. Upstairs, maybe.
SIDNEY: ( who gets the point ) Dallas. Is he around? ( unhelpfully ) Yeah, he's around somewhere. Upstairs, maybe.
CHICO: ( unhelpfully ) Yeah, he's around somewhere. Upstairs, maybe.
SIDNEY: ( coldly, as he goes )
COURTYARD: Steve and Susan are still embracing. Steve is exultantly proud and happy.
STEVE: ( incoherent ) This is big, you know. Very big! Let's go out later, drink some firewater. With the boys. Fred can call Millie and -
SUSAN: Steve, I'd rather you didn't say anything for a day or two.until I tell my brother.
STEVE: His sobering reaction shows this is something important.
STEVE: ( gently ) You haven't told him yet.
SUSAN: I'm telling him in the morning after breakfast.
SUSAN: I'm telling him in the morning after breakfast.
STEVE: He isn't going to like it.
STEVE: You sure you don't want me to be with you.? Steve, my brother isn't as bad as he's painted. He isn't perfect, but -
SUSAN: Steve, my brother isn't as bad as he's painted. He isn't perfect, but -
STEVE: But he isn't going to like this, Susie. And he makes you nervous, not me. No, I take that back - he makes me nervous, too. But I wouldn't give him a second thought if not for you.
SUSAN: Let's forget him and -
STEVE: His stooge, Falco, is around - I saw him walk in. He's been spying on me for weeks, Darling, I don't care - really I don't. Sidney'd had a secret crush on me for years, but nothing we do is his business -
SUSAN: ( quickly, perhaps too quickly ) Darling, I don't care - really I don't. Sidney'd had a secret crush on me for years, but nothing we do is his business -
STEVE: ( gently insisting ) But he could be reporting back to your brother, couldn't he?
SUSAN: ( pleading ) Steve, dear, please forget all of this. What can it matter after
STEVE: ( softly ) I have a message for you; I love ( kissing her lightly ) May I dedicate the next number to you?.And the next, and the next. Every Sunday I'll buy you a new bonnet -
SUSAN: ( amused, but moved ) If the stores are open -
STEVE: And on Monday, I'll take it off and stroke your light brown hair and -
SUSAN: And on Tuesday - Hasenpfeffer.
STEVE: ( abruptly grinning ) How do you think I realized I love I made you write a beautiful song.
SUSAN: I made you write a beautiful song.
STEVE: No, you had me eating that Chinese
SIDNEY: Can more than two enjoy this joke. Hello, Susie, I didn't expect to find you here.
SIDNEY: Where's those glossy prints you promised? Tonight's the latest I can place them -
STEVE: ( barely polite ) Well, thanks, anyway - let's forget ( to Susan ) It's cold out here, Susie.
SIDNEY: ( lightly sarcastic ) Let me apologize for getting you that press spread. It's been an honor to serve you gratis.
STEVE: ( levelly ) I get the feeling, Falco, that you're always snooping around.
SUSAN: ( quickly intervening ) Steve, stop it please.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Frank D'Angelo has followed Sidney out onto the fire escape; other members of the Quintet have also appeared.
D'ANGELO: What are you boys fighting about?
SIDNEY: ( sarcastic ) Kill me! Find me a door somewhere - I walked in without knocking!
STEVE: I'm feeling too good to fight with you, but that isn't what I said - I said you snoop. For instance, what were you doing around my hotel the other night?
SIDNEY: ( needling ) Begging your pardon, I haven't been down the bowery in years!
D'ANGELO: ( soothingly ) Come on boys, break it up.
STEVE: ( overriding D'Angelo ) The next time you want information, Falco, don't scratch for it like a dog - ask for it like a man!
SIDNEY: His face tightens; he appears to be mortally insulted and controlling himself with difficulty. He turns his back swiftly on Steve, addressing Susan in a voice that has a sharp edge.
SIDNEY: If you're going home, Susie, I'll drop you off.
CHICO: ( easily ) Time for the next set, Chief.
STEVE: Just a minute, Chico.
CORRIDOR: Sidney comes inside. When he is out of sight or the group in the courtyard, his manner swiftly changes. It's obvious now that his indignation was assumed; now he looks back towards the courtyard and there is shrewdness in his eyes; he is assessing Steve's temper. But, presently, seeing D'Angelo and the boys returning, he moves back to the curtains into the Club.
COURTYARD: As D'Angelo and the other boys go inside, Steve turns back to Susan.
STEVE: ( fondly ) Just so you don't leave me in a minor key.
SIDNEY: Don't tell me you started a polka with Leo Bartha?
RITA: ( shaking her head ) No. That's what I mean - I'm being fired for what I didn't do.
RITA: ( soto voce ) He came in last week on a very dull rainy night. I know who he was, but I didn't let on. ( emphatically ) He didn't take his eyes off me all night. Listening.?
SIDNEY: Avidly. He was staring.
RITA: ( continuing ) Staring. Consequently, when he approached me on his way out I wasn't surprised, but I didn't let ( prompting ) He was writing a special Sunday piece on.?
SIDNEY: ( prompting ) He was writing a special Sunday piece on.?
RITA: ( nodding ) .cigarette girls. And naturally -
SIDNEY: You were thrilled to be interviewed. Were you "interviewed"?
RITA: In his apartment -
SIDNEY: And where was his wife?
RITA: I don't know - it's a big apartment. But I wasn't interviewed. In fact, I was totally unprepared for what We're old friends, Chickie - quit it! A big columnist comes in this room, without his ball-and-chain and you make like a delicatessen counter! What did you think would happen in his house?
SIDNEY: ( grimacing ) We're old friends, Chickie - quit it! A big columnist comes in this room, without his ball-and-chain and you make like a delicatessen counter! What did you think would happen in his house?
RITA: ( with a nod ) But, Sidney darling, the man must be out of his mind - it was only eleven o'clock in the morning!
RITA: For a moment I was so taken aback that I said anything that popped into my sleepy head. If I'm not mistaken, I even ordered the man out of his own house.
RITA: ( rapidly ) He was furious and, by the time I could have put on a Tropical Island mood, I was out on the street!. ( dolefully ) That night Mr. Van Cleve calls me into his office here. He's got nothing against me, he says but he can't afford to antagonize columnists. I told him I still have Sonny at military academy, but Van Cleve's made of ice.
RITA: ( tentative ) Do you think you could do something, ( a quick nod ) That's what I'm thinking, Rita.
SIDNEY: ( a quick nod ) That's what I'm thinking, Rita.
RITA: Do you still keep your key under the mat?
SIDNEY: ( eyeing her ) Can you be there by two-thirty?
BANDSTAND: The quintet are resuming their positions on the stand. Steve lingers a moment, his guitar already in his hand while he talks to D'Angelo.
STEVE: Frank, I don't want any secrets from you. I proposed to Susie
D'ANGELO: Did she accept?
STEVE: You don't like it, do you. I think she will accept, but I'm not sure. She may be too dependent on her
D'ANGELO: ( solemnly ) Lots of good people in this town are dependent on her brother.
ANOTHER ANGLE: While D'Angelo watches him, the boy continues. CAMERA tracks slowly back through the club as the chatter and babble of the customers begins to diminish in appreciation of the quiet melancholy of the music.
SUSAN: You're touchy, Sidney - don't be so I wasn't looking for a brawl. I came to bring him a present. Wanna bite to eat?
SIDNEY: ( gruffly ) I wasn't looking for a brawl. I came to bring him a present. ( then ) Wanna bite to eat?
LONGER SHOT: They cross the sidewalk and get into the cab. It starts off and CAMERA PANS with it.
INSIDE CAB: Susan is relaxed, content but thoughtful. Sidney flicks her a quick, anxious look. Finally, gloomily:
SIDNEY: Feels like a Monday night, don't Not to me. Sometimes, the world feels like a cage. Then someone comes along and opens the door.and it's never Monday night again. I wish you and Steve could like each other.
SUSAN: ( softly ) Not to me. Sometimes, the world feels like a cage. Then someone comes along and opens the door.and it's never Monday night again. ( turning to Sidney ) I wish you and Steve could like each other.
SIDNEY: ( grimacing ) We stick in each others craw.
SUSAN: Yes, but why?
SIDNEY: Well, for one thing, he thinks J.J. is some kind of monster.
SUSAN: Quizzically, she studies Sidney.
SUSAN: Don't you?
SIDNEY: He looks up sharply, ( he is momentarily startled at Susan's insight. ) Swiftly, he assumes a protesting air.
SIDNEY: Susie, your brother's one of my best friends, and -
RESUME SUSAN: She is not totally convinced by this performance. She smiles skeptically.
SUSAN: I know. But someday I'd like to look into your clever mind and see what you REALLY think of him -
SIDNEY: Where do you come off to make a remark like that?
SUSAN: ( quietly ) Who could love a man who keeps jumping through burning hoops, like a trained poodle?
SUSAN: ( thoughtfully ) Do you think J.J. likes Steve.?
SIDNEY: ( glibly ) Frankly, yes, to my surprise. He thinks he's very gifted - those boys'll go a big mile, he thinks. ( gently ) You feel pretty strong about this Wedding bells, you mean?
SIDNEY: ( gently ) You feel pretty strong about this Wedding bells, you mean?
SIDNEY: Wedding bells, you mean?
SUSAN: He wants me to go on the road with them. It's an eight month tour, all the way to Oregon.
SIDNEY: The news has considerable impact on him. But he hides it, saying lightly:
SIDNEY: Well, congratulations. But don't go just for the ride! Or didn't you accept the proposal?
SUSAN: I'm going to discuss it with J.J. in the morning.
SUSAN: ( softly ) It's given me a big lift to know that some people want me for myself, not just because I'm my brother's sister.
SIDNEY: Chickie, I'll have to laugh at that - an attractive girl like
SUSAN: I hope that J.J. really likes Steve, that it isn't an act.
SIDNEY: ( with an indignant edge ) Why should he put on an act? Your brother has told PRESIDENTS where to go and what to do!
SUSAN: The act would be for my sake, not
SIDNEY: ( to cabbie ) Wait for me. I'll be right back.
LONGER SHOT: Sidney moves after the girl, calling: "Susie!"
SUSAN: Hearing him, Susan turns back. Sidney walks into shot to join her.
SIDNEY: ( lightly ) It's not my nature, Susie, but I'll talk to you like an uncle.
SUSAN: ( smiling ) But I don't need an uncle, Sidney.
REVERSE ANGLE: Sidney quickly corrects himself, saying earnestly:
SIDNEY: No, I mean because I admire you - in fact, more than admire you - although that's neither here nor Susie, don't sell your brother short. Talk this over with him, I mean - you'll find him a real friend.
SUSAN: Susan looks thoughtful, making no comment.
SIDNEY: Any message, in case I see J.J.
SUSAN: She looks back at Sidney, quietly firm.
SUSAN: Yes. Tell him for me that Steve Dallas is the first real man I've ever been in love with.
RESUME SIDNEY: The sincerity of the girl's manner strikes home to Sidney. Now that her back is turned we see the sharp twinge of pain with which he hears the statement of her feelings for another man. Angered, he wheels, striding out of the door onto Broadway.
SIDNEY: The Twenty One Club.
SIDNEY: Jimmy! This is a coincidence. I am just going -
WELDON: ( overlapping ) Yeah. A coincidence you should run into the very man you've been ducking all week! ( to the girl ) This is my press agent, Joan.
SIDNEY: ( quickly ) I tried to reach you twice -
WELDON: ( overlapping ) What do you do for that hundred a week. Fall out of bed?
SIDNEY: Jimmy, I'm on my way inside right now to talk to Hunsecker. I can promise you -
WELDON: ( horsing ) Joan, call a cop! We'll arrest this kid for larceny!
SIDNEY: Listen, when your band was playing at Roseland -
WELDON: ( cutting in ) That was two months ago. Take your hand out of my pocket, thief!
THE GIRL: Take it easy, Jimmy dear.
WELDON: ( indignantly ) Why? It's a dirty job, but I pay clean money for it, don't I?
SIDNEY: No more you don't! What is this - You're showing off for her? They're supposed to hear you in Korea?
WELDON: ( smirking to the girl ) He's intuitive - he knows he's getting fired!
SIDNEY: If you're funny, James, I'm a pretzel! Drop dead!
WELDON: It was nice knowing you, Sidney. Not cheap - but nice. Happy unemployment insurance.
CAPTAIN: How are you tonight, Mr. Falco?
SIDNEY: ( nodding towards the restaurant ) Is "he" inside?
CAPTAIN: But of course.
SIDNEY: Alone or surrounded?
CAPTAIN: A Senator, an Agent and Something - With - Long - Red - Hair.
REVERSE ANGLE: From Sidney's viewpoint. Shooting through the doorway into the restaurant, we can see the group at the table. ( Hunsecker's back is turned to us. ) CAMERA PULLS BACK to include Sidney in foreground. He decides not to go into restaurant and turns away out of shot.
PHONE BOOTHS: Sidney moves briskly past the girl at the switchboard, instructing her:
SIDNEY: Honey, get me Mr. Hunsecker.
OPERATOR: He's right inside, Mr. Falco.
SIDNEY: ( from inside the booth ) So it isn't Long Distance.
SIDNEY: ( to phone ) J.J.? It's me
SIDNEY: J.J., it's Sidney. Can you come outside for one minute? Can I come out? No.
SIDNEY: ( tensely ) I have to talk to you, alone, J.J., that's why.
SIDNEY: Can I come in for a minute?
HUNSECKER: From Sidney's viewpoint. Hunsecker is seated at a table which is cleverly his habitual position. We see him only in semi-back view, a broad and powerful back. He is listening to a man who has paused at his table, stooping over Hunsecker to whisper in his ear. As the columnist listens, his hands play with an omni-present pad and pencil which lie on the dinner table amongst an assortment of envelopes, mimeographed sheets and a telephone. Beyond Hunsecker and the man talking to him are the SENATOR, the AGENT, and an attractive, if fatuous GIRL.
HUNSECKER: I'll check it in the morning, Low -
REVERSE ANGLE: Sidney comes across to the table, nervous but deliberate. CAMERA PULLS BACK to include Hunsecker in foreground. Sidney, without accosting him, stands a few feet from the columnist's elbow and deliberately lights a cigarette. Hunsecker, barely turning his head, sees him. We have heard of Hunsecker as a monster, but he is evidently in a mild phase of his metabolism, for he seems gentle, sad and quiet, as he turns his gaze casually to the Senator, totally ignoring the young man who stands behind him.
HUNSECKER: ( softly ) Harvey, I often wish I were dead and wore a hearing aid.with a simple flick of a switch I could shut out the greedy murmur of little men.
SIDNEY: A close shot. Sidney shows no reaction to this insult. He steps in closer, an Indian fixity in his face.
SIDNEY: J.J., I need your ear for two Mac! I don't want this man at my I have a message from your sister. Forgive me, Harvey. We were interrupted before -
REVERSE ANGLE: Shooting across Sidney, onto Hunsecker. J.J. turns - but not to Sidney. He raises his hand in a small gesture which summons a passing Captain, who steps into picture at Sidney's The Captain is already there. But now Hunsecker's eyes have switched to Sidney's face. For the briefest of moments, nothing happens. Then Hunsecker, seeming to relax and ignoring the Captain whom he has summoned, turns back to casual conversation with the Senator as if nothing had In foreground, Sidney turns to the Captain with a carved smile, indicating that Hunsecker's change of topic is to be interpreted as sanction for Sidney to remain. The Captain, not entirely convinced, retreats. Sidney finds himself a chair, places it and takes a seat which is near enough to the table to establish his presence. During this:
HUNSECKER: Mac! I don't want this man at my I have a message from your sister. Forgive me, Harvey. We were interrupted before -
SIDNEY: ( quickly but quietly interrupting ) I have a message from your sister. Forgive me, Harvey. We were interrupted before -
HUNSECKER: Forgive me, Harvey. We were interrupted before -
SENATOR: ( who is mildly surprised and faintly embarrassed ) Err.the Supreme Court story, I was telling you - Justice Black.
HUNSECKER: ( nodding ) Yes, the Justice, that's right. But I think you had it in the column.
SIDNEY: ( smoothly, casually ) Last July, the lead item.
SENATOR: ( laughing ) And I believe that's precisely where I read it, too. You see, J.J., where I get my reputation for being the best-informed man in Now don't kid a kidder.
HUNSECKER: Now don't kid a kidder.
SENATOR: I don't think we caught your name, young man.
REVERSE ANGLE: Group shot. The Senator in foreground, Sidney beyond Hunsecker in background, and the others on edge of shot.
SIDNEY: Sidney Falco, sir. And, of course, everyone knows and admires you, Senator Walker.
SENATOR: ( humorously ) Every four years I get less convinced of that. This young lady is Miss Linda James. ( indicates the Girl ) She's managed by Manny Davis. ( he indicates the Agent )
SIDNEY: I know Manny Davis.
HUNSECKER: ( quietly ) Everyone knows Manny Davis. ( as the phone rings on the table ) .except MRS. Manny Davis.
HUNSECKER: Yes? Go ahead, Billy - shoot.
REVERSE ANGLE: To intercut with the above. The Senator, the Agent and the Girl watching Hunsecker. The Agent's reaction to Hunsecker's remark is a sickly smile.
RESUME HUNSECKER: He repeats aloud a story which is told him over the telephone.
HUNSECKER: Uh huh. Sports cars in California are getting smaller and smaller.the other day you were crossing Hollywood Boulevard and you were hit by one.you had to go to the hospital and have it You're not following the column: I had it last week.
SIDNEY: Do you believe in capital punishment, Senator?
SENATOR: RESUME HUNSECKER AND SIDNEY Sidney glances sidelong at Hunsecker.
SIDNEY: ( pointing to the phone ) A man has just been sentenced to
HUNSECKER: Manny, what exactly are the UNSEEN gifts of this lovely young thing that you manage.?
AGENT: Well, she sings a little.you know, sings.
GIRL: ( by rote ) Manny's faith in me is simply awe- inspiring, Mr. Hunsecker. Actually, I'm still studying, but -
RESUME HUNSECKER: He studies the Girl intently.
HUNSECKER: What subject?
GIRL: Singing, of course.straight concert and -
RESUME HUNSECKER: Hunsecker's glance flicks between the Girl and the Senator.
HUNSECKER: Why "of course"? It might, for instance, be politics. Me? I mean "I"? Are you kidding, Mr. Hunsecker? With my Jersey City
GIRL: Me? I mean "I"? Are you kidding, Mr. Hunsecker? With my Jersey City
RESUME HUNSECKER: Again his glance links the Girl and the Senator.
HUNSECKER: The brains may be Jersey City, but the clothes are Trainor-Norell.
SENATOR: Are you an actor, Mr. Falco?
GIRL: ( supporting the change of subject ) That's what I was thinking. Are you, Mr. Falco?
HUNSECKER: How did you guess it, Miss James?
GIRL: He's so pretty, that's how.
HUNSECKER: Mr. Falco, let it be said at once, is a man of FORTY faces, not one, none too pretty and ALL deceptive. See that grin? It's the charming street urchin's face. It's part of his "helpless" act - he throws himself on your mercy. I skip the pleading nervous bit that sometimes blends over into bluster. The moist grateful eye is a favorite face with him - it frequently ties in with the act of boyish candor: he's talking straight from the heart, get it? He's got about half-a-dozen faces for the ladies, but the real cut one to me is the quick dependable chap - nothing he won't do for you in a pinch. At least, so he says! Tonight Mr. Falco, whom I did not invite to sit at this table, is about to show in his last and most pitiful role: pale face with tongue hanging out. In brief, gentlemen and Jersey Lilly, the boy sitting with us is a hungry press agent and fully up to all the tricks of his very slimy
HUNSECKER: ( quietly ) Match me, Sidney.
SIDNEY: ( coolly ) Not just this minute, J.J..
HUNSECKER: A single close up, to intercut with the above.
SIDNEY: A matching single; Sidney's reaction to Hunsecker and to the others at the table.
GROUP SHOT: A florid MAN comes up to the table, obviously anxious to catch Hunsecker's attention. Hunsecker, in the act of lighting, his own cigarette, scarcely looks at the man as he dismisses him:
HUNSECKER: I know - that loafer of yours opens at the Latin Quarter next week. Say goodbye, Lester!
SENATOR: May I ask a naive question, Mr. Falco? Exactly how does a press agent work.?
HUNSECKER: Why don't you answer the man, Sidalee? He's trying to take you off the hook.
SIDNEY: ( to the Senator ) You just had a good example of it. A press agent eats a columnists dirt and is expected to call it What's manna?
GIRL: What's manna?
HUNSECKER: Heaven dust.
SENATOR: But don't you help columnists by furnishing them with items?
SIDNEY: Sure, columnists can't get along without us. Only our good and great friend, J.J., forgets to mention that. We furnish him with items -
HUNSECKER: What, some cheap, gruesome gags?
SIDNEY: ( to Hunsecker now ) You print them, don't you?
HUNSECKER: Yes, with your clients' names attached. That's the only reason those poor slobs pay you - to see their names in my column all over the world! Now, as I make it out, you're doing ME a favor!
SIDNEY: I didn't say that, J.J.
HUNSECKER: The day that I can't get along without press agents' handouts, I'll close up shop, lock, stock and barrel and move to Alaska.
AGENT: ( nodding ) Sweep out my igloo, here I come.
HUNSECKER: ( to the Agent ) Look, Manny, you rode in here on the Senator's shirt tails, so shut your mouth!
SENATOR: ( slowly ) Now, come, J.J., that's a little too harsh. Anyone seems fair game for you tonight.
HUNSECKER: ( not as harsh, but - ) This man is not for you, Harvey, and you shouldn't be seen with him in public. Because that's another part of a press agents life - he digs up scandal among prominent men and shovels it thin among the columnists who give him space.
SENATOR: He finds Hunsecker's manner disturbing, but addresses him
SENATOR: There is some allusion here that escapes me.
HUNSECKER: ( an edge of threat ) We're friends, Harvey - we go as far back as when you were a fresh kid Congressman, don't we?
HUNSECKER: ( an edge of threat ) We're friends, Harvey - we go as far back as when you were a fresh kid Congressman, don't we?
RESUME SENATOR: Why does everything you say sound like a threat?
SENATOR: Why does everything you say sound like a threat?
RESUME HUNSECKER: He leans back, speaking more quietly, enjoying himself.
HUNSECKER: Maybe it's a mannerism - because I don't threaten friends, Harvey. But why furnish your enemies with ammunition? You're a family man. Someday, with God willing, you may wanna be President. Now here you are, Harvey, out in the open where any hep person knows that this one.
AGENT: Hunsecker leans into shot pointing directly at the Agent.
HUNSECKER: ( continuing ) .is toting THAT one.
HUNSECKER: ( continuing ) .around for you.
RESUME HUNSECKER: He smiles disarmingly.
HUNSECKER: ( continuing ) .Are we kids or what?.
GROUP SHOT: As Hunsecker stands up, Sidney follows suit. The Agent, very nervous, gets to his feet and the Girl does likewise. The Senator, whose face is sober, also rises from the table.
HUNSECKER: ( to the Senator, affably ) Next time you come up, you might join me at my TV show. ( quietly and cautiously ) Thank you, J.J., for what I consider sound advice.
SENATOR: ( quietly and cautiously ) Thank you, J.J., for what I consider sound advice.
HUNSECKER: ( deadpan ) Go, Thou, and sin no more.
HUNSECKER: Mac, don't let the Senator pay that I'll take care of it, Mr. Hunsecker.
CAPTAIN: I'll take care of it, Mr. Hunsecker.
HUNSECKER: ( murmuring ) President! My big toe would make a better President!
ATTENDANT: Mr. Hunsecker's coat, Joe.
HUNSECKER: Find me a good one, Joe.
HUNSECKER: Putting on his overcoat, he addresses another of the Captains who has escorted him out of the Club.
HUNSECKER: Dan, anyone calls, tell 'em I'll be at the Morocco, maybe the Embers.
DAN: Very good, Mr. Hunsecker. Where's your coat, Sidalee? Saving
HUNSECKER: Where's your coat, Sidalee? Saving
HUNSECKER: ( to Sidney ) My curiosity is killing me; what are you so rambunctious about There's your fat friend.
SIDNEY: There's your fat friend.
HUNSECKER: ( as he approaches ) Hello, Harry.
KELLO: ( cheerfully ) Bonna sera, commendatore. Come sta?
HUNSECKER: ( turning to Sidney ) You see, Sidalee, that shows that Lt. Kello likes your people.
KELLO: It's my Brooklyn background, J.J. I'm good on Yiddish, too.
HUNSECKER: Harry, am I supposed to say "uncle"?
HUNSECKER: Anything fit to print, tonight? Hello, Phil. How're the kids.
PHIL: Fine, Mr. Hunsecker.
HUNSECKER: Any news fit to print tonight?
KELLO: ( joining Hunsecker ) I just checked "downtown". Quiet everywhere tonight.
HUNSECKER: Incidentally, what happened to that doll? - You gave me the item last night. Still alive?
KELLO: Yeah. At Bellevue. Still hanging on. But they still don't know if she was pushed.
HUNSECKER: She mighta jumped. Love suicide? Check it for me, Phil.it's a real heart throb.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Mischievously, Hunsecker nods at Sidney.
HUNSECKER: ( to Kello ) Say hello to Sidney Falco. Tickle him - he's been a bad boy tonight. He called you my fat friend.
KELLO: ( mildly ) I don't believe it.
SIDNEY: I know.I know you're the strongest cop in town.
KELLO: ( with a laugh ) I call him the boy with the ice cream face!
HUNSECKER: ( laughing ) Say, that's good - it's nice - in fact, it's APT, Harry!
KELLO: ( modestly ) Yeah, I got eyes. I put things I remember ONCE when you didn't quite "put things together". Boy! Was the Mayor mad!
HUNSECKER: I remember ONCE when you didn't quite "put things together". Boy! Was the Mayor mad!
KELLO: Citizens committees! I didn't mean to hit the boy that hard. Yeah, that's when a feller needed a friend and I won't forget his initials, J.J.
PHIL: ( to Hunsecker ) She died twenty minutes ago, Mr. Hunsecker. They're still ( shaking his head with total dismissal ) That's show business. Thanks, Phil. ( to Kello ) See you.
HUNSECKER: ( shaking his head with total dismissal ) That's show business. Thanks, Phil. ( to Kello ) See you.
KELLO: ( as he does so ) Hasta La Vista, J.J. Hasta Luego.
SIDNEY: Spahish.that must show he likes "spigs", too.
HUNSECKER: I like Harry, but I can't deny he sweats a little.
HUNSECKER: I love this dirty town.
HUNSECKER: ( after a pause ) Conjugate me a verb, Sidney. For instance, TO PROMISE!
HUNSECKER: ( continuing ) You told me you'd break up that romance - when?
SIDNEY: ( hesitantly ) You want something done, J.J., but I doubt if you yourself know what's ( soft and sardonic ) I'm a schoolboy - teach me, teach me.
HUNSECKER: ( soft and sardonic ) I'm a schoolboy - teach me, teach me.
SIDNEY: ( carefully ) Why not break it up yourself? You could do it in two minutes flat.
HUNSECKER: ( harshly ) At this late date you need explanations.? Susie's all I got - now that she's growing up, I want my relationship with her to stay at least at par! I don't intend to antagonize her if I don't have to. ( starting to walk again ) Now, be warned, son - I'll have to blitz you.
SIDNEY: Frankly, J.J., I don't think you got the cards to blitz me.
HUNSECKER: I don't?
SIDNEY: Correct me if I'm wrong, but I don't think so.
HUNSECKER: ( turning to eye him ) I'll listen one more minute. ( very rapidly ) About a year ago, you asked me to do a favor. It was a thing - well, I never did a thing that dirty in all my life.
SIDNEY: ( very rapidly ) About a year ago, you asked me to do a favor. It was a thing - well, I never did a thing that dirty in all my life.
SIDNEY: Awright, that brings us up to five weeks ago. "Sidney, I got a nasty little problem here." Did I say no? I'm frank to admit - it don't jell as fast as we like. But all of a sudden I CAN'T GET YOU ON THE PHONE NO MORE! WHY?. And why, as of this date, am I frozen out of the Are you finished?
HUNSECKER: ( scornfully ) Are you finished?
SIDNEY: ( quickly ) No, lemme finish. I DON'T LIKE THIS JOB! That boy is dumb only on matinee days - otherwise he's got a head. And Susan, like you said, she's growing up. Two heads. What I mean, we got a slippery, dangerous problem here!
HUNSECKER: ( incisively ) Not "we", Sidney, you!
SIDNEY: ( gamely ) Correct me if I'm wrong - WE! Because when I'm out on this very slippery limb for you, you have to know what's involved.
HUNSECKER: ( sardonically ) Ha! My right hand hasn't seen my left hand for thirty years! I'll do it, J.J. - don't get me wrong - in for a penny, in for a pound. I'll see it through, but stop beating me around the head. Let me make a living!
SIDNEY: I'll do it, J.J. - don't get me wrong - in for a penny, in for a pound. I'll see it through, but stop beating me around the head. Let me make a living!
HUNSECKER: ( his mouth tight and mean ) What you promised - do it! Don't finagle around. It's later than you think.
SIDNEY: ( as Hunsecker passes him ) Excuse it, but it's later than you think. That boy proposed tonight.
HUNSECKER: Hunsecker is HIT: he stops in his stride; he pauses and he turns slowly to look at Sidney. Lowering, he hesitates, mind clicking.
HUNSECKER: Susie told you that.?
HUNSECKER: No wonder you've been so 'feisty'
HUNSECKER: ( quietly ) Can you deliver?
SIDNEY: Uh huh.
HUNSECKER: Tonight. Before you go to bed. The cat is in the bag and the bag is in the river.
SIDNEY: Tonight. Before you go to bed. The cat is in the bag and the bag is in the river.
HUNSECKER: Expressionless, he examines Sidney. Then he walks off toward the car. He tips the attendant, who thanks him, but instead of getting into the back of the car, he makes a small authoritative gesture to Nikko ( double ) to move over so that Hunsecker himself may drive. While Nikko does so, Hunsecker turns back to Sidney, whom the CAMERA now includes.
HUNSECKER: ( quietly ) Don't be a two time loser, Sidalee. The sentence could be severe.
SIDNEY: He is satisfied.
HUNSECKER: Hunsecker gets into the driver's seat beside Nikko, the Japanese houseboy. CAMERA is CLOSE on Hunsecker who does not look back but is clearly aware of the position of Sidney as he puts the car into gear, revving the engine.
CLOSER ANGLE: REVERSE ANGLE. A CAPTAIN approaches Sidney.
CAPTAIN: Hello, Sidney. Wanna table?
SIDNEY: ( shaking his head ) Just hopping tonight. Leo Bartha been in?
CAPTAIN: Yeah, having supper with the Mrs. She's over there.
CAPTAIN: He's somewhere.
SIDNEY: ( interrupting ) Thanks, I see him.
BARTHA: Bartha comes forward ( from the Men's Room ) passing the Captain and Sidney. Sidney moves to intercept him.
SIDNEY: Hello, Leo. How goes that Sunday piece on cigarette girls?
ANOTHER ANGLE: A CLOSE SHOT on Bartha as he turns towards Sidney, stopping.
BARTHA: ( cautiously ) Who told you about it?
SIDNEY: Sidney smiles at Bartha, but the threat is clear.
SIDNEY: The cigarettes girl.Rita. And she took out all her hairpins, too.
RESUME BARTHA: He throws a quick glance at his wife in the booth in background. CAMERA PULLS BACK as Sidney, who has noted the look, moves closer to Bartha.
SIDNEY: I never had the pleasure of meeting your wife. You know what I wonder, Leo? Could you use a hot little item for tomorrow's column?
BARTHA: What is this, blackmail? Beat it!
SIDNEY: Sidney's face tightens. After a pause, he makes a decision and walks towards the booth.
SIDNEY: Leo, I've never had the pleasure of meeting your wife.
BARTHA: Loretta.Sidney Falco.
WIFE: ( chatty ) How do you do, Mr. Falco. If you know anything about horses, sit a minute. Help yourself to a glass of this N.Y. State champagne - that's what my husband buys me. All the imported wines aren't what they're cracked up to be.
SIDNEY: All the imported wines aren't what they're cracked up to be.
WIFE: Whose side are you on, Mr. Falco, his or mine?
SIDNEY: Frankly, Mrs. Bartha, I'm a neutral observer for the United Nations.
WIFE: Mrs. Bartha laughs, enjoying his deftness; then:
WIFE: What's your first name?
SIDNEY: ( over scene )
WIFE: ( searching the column ) No horse running tomorrow by that
BARTHA: You ought to stop this nonsense, Loretta, these two dollar bets.
WIFE: ( cheerfully ) It's compensation, Leo, for the marginal life we lead. ( to Sidney ) Sidney, did you hear the story about the cloak-and-suitor who ?
BARTHA: ( sharply interrupting ) That's right! Tell him, so I can read it in Hunsecker's column first!
WIFE: ( to Sidney, brightly ) Oh, are you a spy for the other side?
SIDNEY: No, I actually sat down to give Leo an item.
WIFE: Leo, he wants to give you an item - don't be sullen.
BARTHA: ( to his wife ) Will you mind your own business!
WIFE: ( calmly )
SIDNEY: Just in case you'd like to print it, Leo. It's a blind - no names mentioned. But for your private information, the guy's name is There isn't a single name here that gives off vibrations.
WIFE: ( concentrating on the tabloid ) There isn't a single name here that gives off vibrations.
SIDNEY: Anything there with a name like "cigarette girl"?
WIFE: MMmmmm."cigarette girl". No, no horse with a name like that.
WIFE: Mrs. Bartha's attention is attracted by Sidney's gesture. She looks up, made aware of this strange by-play.
BARTHA: I don't print blind items.
RESUME WIFE: She looks from Sidney to her husband and back.
WIFE: What is this, chess or checkers.?
SIDNEY: ( pointedly ) Neither does Hunsecker. ( fractional pause ) He likes to use the real names.
WIFE: Where are we running? What am I missing here?
BARTHA: Waiter, the check. This man is trying to hold a gun to my head!
WIFE: ( abruptly ) That's the horse! Shotgun - Shotgun in the fifth!
BARTHA: ( sternly ) What do you want to tell my wife,
WIFE: She is brushing her lap with her napkin.
WIFE: ( indignantly ) He wants to tell me that you poured champagne all over my lap.
BARTHA: Go on, tell her, I'm waiting!
SIDNEY: ( flustered ) What are you talking about? Are you nuts or what?
RESUME WIFE: Still mopping her dress with her napkin, she waits for her husband to speak.
BARTHA: He glances unhappily at his wife.
BARTHA: Lorry, I can't let this man blackmail me.
WIFE: Sidney decides to retreat. He turns, starts to go. But Bartha blocks his way, holding Sidney and explaining to the A momentarily pause. Then:
BARTHA: He wants me to print a dirty smear item for keeping his mouth shut
WIFE: About what?
RESUME BARTHA: He is uneasy, ashamed of himself.
BARTHA: Foolishly, Lorry, and I hope you'll understand. this cigarette girl.I was kidding around with her.this girl, I mean.I was kidding around and she took it seriously. It was a case of bad judgment, Lorry, bad taste.and I'm just sorry, Lorry, that's all.
RESUME WIFE: She says nothing.
BARTHA: Your friend Hunsecker - you can tell him for me - he's a disgrace to his profession. Never mind my bilious private life - I print a decent, responsible column - that's the way it stays! Your man - there's nothing he won't print if it satisfies his vanity or his spite! He'll use any spice to pepper up his daily garbage! Tell him I said so and that, like yourself, he's got the morals of a guinea pig and the scruples of a
SIDNEY: What do I do now? Whistle "The Stars and Stripes Forever?"
MRS. BARTHA: CAMERA PULLS BACK with her as she collects her belongings, slides out between the tables and comes forward, passing Sidney to her husband.
WIFE: ( lightly ) What you do now, Mr. Falco, is crow like a hen - you have just laid an
WIFE: Leo, this is one of the cleanest things I've seen you do in years.
OTIS ELWELL: A MEDIUM LONG SHOT. At a booth on the other side of the bar sits a dapper gentleman with a twinkle of malice in his eyes. He has been watching the altercation with keen interest and satisfaction. Elwell gives some instructions to a waiter who is serving him with drinks, pointing towards Sidney.
SIDNEY: Sidney's face shows a burning resentment. He glances about him to see how much of the embarrassing scene has been observed. As he moves away, the waiter walks into shot, addressing him.
WAITER: A waiter approaches Sidney. He has a message.
WAITER: Otis Elwell wants to see you, Sidney.
OTIS ELWELL: From Sidney's viewpoint. Elwell beckons.
SIDNEY: He comes round the circular bar. He shows no eagerness to join Elwell, but approaches the table. Elwell makes a gesture, inviting Sidney to sit. Sidney doesn't accept it.
ELWELL: ( pleasantly ) I see Bartha gave you cold tongue for supper. ( as Sidney starts to leave ) Hey, wait a minute!
SIDNEY: ( hesitating ) I'm late for a date with a dame.
SIDNEY: Otis, if you're trying to blow this brawl into an item for your column - forget it!
REVERSE ANGLE: Across Sidney and Elwell. Elwell is quietly enjoying Sidney's display of hurt dignity.
ELWELL: ( affably ) How is dear old J.J. by the way?
SIDNEY: ( his anger relapsing ) Call him up and ask - he might drop dead with shock.
ELWELL: ( lightly ) If it were that easy, you wouldn't find an empty phone booth for the next two hours.
SIDNEY: A CLOSE SHOT. While Elwell continues, he is not looking at Sidney. Elwell's expression of dislike of Hunsecker is not overemphatic; but Sidney senses, nevertheless, that it is very real - and this gives him a new idea.
ELWELL: ( continuing over scene ) .Talk of a wake! - they'd club each other to cater the affair for
ELWELL: ( happily ) By the way, did I hear something about J.J. giving you the flit gun treatment - he shut you out of the ( amused )
REVERSE ANGLE: Sidney has rapidly resumed his manner of resentment ( in order to exploit Elwell's dislike of Hunsecker ).
SIDNEY: You don't know that lunatic yet? Whims - egotistic whims! Like the gag - when you got him for a friend, you don't need an enemy! That's what the fight with Bartha was about. "Leo", I says, "Hunsecker froze me out. So I'm eating humble pie this month - please print me an And, instead, he printed his heel in your face?
ELWELL: ( pleased ) And, instead, he printed his heel in your face?
SIDNEY: ( morose ) I see you're full of human
ELWELL: He has lost interest in Sidney.
ELWELL: ( with a shrug ) Like most of the human race, Sidney, I'm bored. I'd go a mile for a chuckle.
REVERSE ANGLE: .three people are passing the table, squeezing their way past; a man with two very fetching young women. Elwell's eyes are riveted to the anatomy that is temptingly displayed.
SIDNEY: ( noting Elwell's preoccupation ) .and two miles for a pretty
ELWELL: He is unembarrassed at Sidney's all-too-accurate estimate.
ELWELL: ( lightly ) Three.even four.
ELWELL: ( continuing, casually ) Then you're really washed up with This is how much I'm washed with
REVERSE ANGLE: The nature of Elwell's reading tastes is also not lost on Sidney. With his eyes glancing at the magazine, Sidney now accepts the original offer to sit down. He produces the slip of paper that Bartha rejected, offering it as
SIDNEY: This is how much I'm washed with
SIDNEY: Look, Otis, I make no brief for my bilious private life, but he's got the morals of a guinea pig and the scruples of a gangster.
ELWELL: ( dryly ) A fine, fat dirty item. ( offering it back to Sidney ) Who's it about?
SIDNEY: A kid named Dallas, who runs a dinky jazz quintet. He keeps company with J.J.'s screwball sister.
ELWELL: This does get a reaction, a flicker of genuine interest. Elwell reads the item for a second time.
SIDNEY: It's a real goody if, like me, you wanna clobber J.J.!
SIDNEY: He's got his TV tomorrow. He'd read it just before rehearsals.
ELWELL: ( cautiously ) Mmm. Trouble is I can't think of any good reason why I should print anything you give me. I can't even think of a bad reason.
SIDNEY: Sidney drops his eyes to the magazine once more. He fingers it in a preoccupied but significant way.
SIDNEY: ( gently ) Suppose I introduce you to a lovely reason, Otis. One that's good and bad.and available?
ELWELL: His eyes go from the magazine to Sidney; he gets the point Elwell reaches for the slip of paper once more.
ELWELL: I'm not an unreasonable man.
SIDNEY: Waiter! The check.
SIDNEY'S OFFICE: The outer room is lit only by one of the lamps on the desk. Rita crosses and goes to the door. Sidney's shadow can be seen through the frosted glass. At the door, Rita opens it slowly and with a seductive manner.
RITA: ( coyly )
ANOTHER ANGLE: Otis Elwell stands on the landing outside. In most gentlemanly fashion, he takes off his hat.
RITA: This new arrival gets a dismal reaction from the girl.
SIDNEY: ( unembarrassed ) Rita, say hello to Otis Elwell.
RITA: ( with no welcome whatsoever )
ANOTHER ANGLE: Elwell is not unaware of his cool reception. He glances at Sidney as he comes into the room. But his manner is suave.
ELWELL: Friends call me Otis - sometimes Tricky Otis.
SIDNEY: Otis was outraged when I told him Van Cleve was going to fire you. Tell him not to pay any attention to anything you-know-who says about Right, Otis?
ELWELL: Elwell sits down on the sette, stretches his limbs, smiles at the girl. Rita still says nothing. Sidney mistakes her attitude for acquiescence. He swallows his drink, sets it Rita looks at him sharply.
SIDNEY: I thought you two could talk the whole thing over till I got back.
RITA: One of those business meetings, honey - always coming up in the middle of the night.
SIDNEY: One of those business meetings, honey - always coming up in the middle of the night.
RITA: ( sharply ) Hold on. You can drop me off on your way.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Elwell looks at Sidney; Sidney looks at Elwell. Elwell gets up slowly from the settee.
ELWELL: ( amused by acid ) Consternation reigns. ( quickly ) Now, Otis.
SIDNEY: ( quickly ) Now, Otis.
ELWELL: I hate J.J. but not that much at this moment.
SIDNEY: Give me a chance
SIDNEY: Don't you know who that man is?
RITA: ( bitingly ) Yeah. Otis Elwell. The columnist.
SIDNEY: ( nodding with emphasis ) ( aggressively ) And he's a perfect stranger to me.
RITA: ( aggressively ) And he's a perfect stranger to me.
SIDNEY: ( explosively ) So take five minutes! Get acquainted! He's an important man - he's lonely - don't be dumb!
RITA: What do you want all of a sudden - Lady Godiva.? Where's my other What kind of an act is this?
SIDNEY: What kind of an act is this?
RITA: Don't you think I have any feelings? What am I? A bowl of fruit? A tangerine that peels in a minute?
SIDNEY: ( caustic ) I beg your pardon! I turn myself inside out to help you and now I'm a heavy. ( stooping swiftly as he discovers her shoe ) Here's your shoe, there's your coat, that's the door!
RITA: Sidney.I.I don't do this sort of thing.
SIDNEY: What sort of thing?
RITA: ( emphatic ) This sort of thing!
SIDNEY: ( as emphatic ) Listen, you need him for a favor, don't you! And so do I! I need his columntonight. ( then ) Didn't you ask me to do something about your job? Don't you have a kid in Military School? You're a snake, Falco. You're a louse, a real louse. ( persuasively ) Honey - he's going to help you! You want to lose your job?
RITA: You're a snake, Falco. You're a louse, a real louse. Honey - he's going to help you! You want to lose your job?
SIDNEY: ( persuasively ) Honey - he's going to help you! You want to lose your job?
RITA: ( remonstrating ) A girl needs a little romancing before she -
SIDNEY: ( cutting in ) Next time I'll call in a guy to paint silver stars on the ceiling!
RITA: ( in a small voice ) What would you think of me if -
SIDNEY: ( cutting in to reassure her ) Nothing I didn't think of you before.
RITA: ( dryly, with significance ) - that's what I mean!
SIDNEY: ( as he opens the door ) How many snorts does it take to put you in that Tropical Island Mood?
SIDNEY'S OFFICE: Elwell overhears the last remark and as Sidney passes him, he winks. While Sidney pours another drink, Elwell faces the doorway. Rita comes into it, stands on the threshold. She is still far from enthusiastic.
ELWELL: ( an inspiration ) Havana! That's where we met!
RITA: ( to Otis ) Here's mud in your column!
SIDNEY: Blessings on thee, the both.well. Gotta run now. See you two kids Hurry back.
ELWELL: ( lightly ) Hurry back.
SIDNEY: Don't do anything I wouldn't do. That gives you lots of leeway.
RITA: Palm Springs. Two years ago.
ELWELL: ( delighted ) That's right!
RITA: Don't tell Sidney.
HUNSECKER: ( to phone ) Yes.? You sound happy, Sidney. Why should you be happy when I'm ( then ) I'll see the papers when I get up. How do you spell Picasso, the French painter? ( languidly writes down Picasso on his scratch pad, answering a query, dryly ) It's an item - I hear he goes out with three-eyed girls.
SIDNEY: ( to phone ) It would be nice if you mentioned R-O-B-A-R-D - Robard's jazz joint it's his 20th anniversary. Don't begrudge it to me, J.J. - I owe him lots of favors. ( glancing toward the attendant to see that he has not overheard ) I think you understand, don't you, that the Dallas skull is badly dented? Oh, real bad. starting today, you can play marbles with his eyeballs. ( even coquetting ) Don't hold out on me, J.J., mention Robard. R.O. - ( hangs up and walks to street )
HUNSECKER: We shall see what we shall see. And don't ever use this apartment phone again; I have a nervous sister.
NEWS VENDOR: The Globe?
SIDNEY: ( shaking his head ) Gimme The Record.
MARY: ( to phone ) I have no power to retract, Mr. Cummings. I'm only Mr. Hunsecker's secretary. No. Nor can I agree that can retraction is necessary. Thank you for calling.
LAWYER: ( huffily ) I fail to see what's amusing about these papers.
MARY: I'll get the boss to sign them.
LAWYER: ( giving her the papers ) They're important.
MARY: You've said that six times - that's why I'm smiling.
SIDNEY: Hello, Mary, me darlin' and phwat are ye up to today?
MARY: That's a question I usually like to ask YOU. Your secretary phoned.
SIDNEY: What about?
MARY: ( shrugging ) Something about a Frank D'Angelo trying to reach you.
MARY: ( continuing ) Is that the man who manages Susie's
MARY: Have you seen this? In Otis Elwell's column. "The dreamy marijuana smoke of a lad who heads a highbrow jazz quintet is giving an inelegant odor to that elegant East Side Club where he works. That's no way for a card-holding Party Member to act. Moscow won't like, you naughty boy!"
SIDNEY: ( into phone ) Sally? I got the message. If D'Angelo calls again, tell him I'll be at the office around noon.
MARY: Could this be that boy?
SIDNEY: ( casually ) Dallas? Could be. He doesn't look like a reefer smoker.
MARY: ( looking at The Record again ) If this is true, J.J.'s going to hit the ceiling.
SIDNEY: Can it be news to you that J.J.'s ceiling needs a plaster job every six weeks?
INSERT: From Sidney's viewpoint, Hunsecker's column. The shot is just too distant for us to be able to read the print.
MARY: ( quietly ) Sidney, you know that J.J. doesn't like people to look at the column proof in advance.
SIDNEY: Mary, I'm not "people" - there's Falco blood, sweat and tears in that column.
SIDNEY: How about dinner tonight?
MARY: Bribing me again?
SIDNEY: ( uncomfortable under her scrutiny ) And why should I bribe the woman who holds most of my heart?
MARY: You're a real rascal, Sidney. I'd certainly dislike you if I didn't like you. You're an amusing boy, but there isn't a drop of respect in you for anything alive - you're too immersed in the theology of making a fast buck. Not that I don't sometimes feel that you yearn for something better.
SIDNEY: ( cynical ) Mary, don't try to sell me the Brooklyn Bridge. I happen to know it belongs to the Dodgers.
MARY: ( affably ) I don't mind you looking at the proof of the column in advance, as long as J.J. doesn't know. But don't do it like a boy stealing gum from a slot machine.
SIDNEY: Who put this item in about the "If there's a more hilarious funny man around than Herbie Temple at the Palace, you'll have to pardon us for not catching the name. We were too busy screaming." Does this Temple have a press agent?
MARY: No. It's one of J.J.'s occasional beau gestes. Evidently the fellow's funny, so he gave him a plug.
SIDNEY: What's your favorite ribbon to go around your favorite chocolates?
MARY: Let's wait till Christmas - it's more legitimate then.
DOORMAN: ( calling out )
SIDNEY: Herbit Temple here yet?
DOORMAN: Yeah, but you can't come in now!
SIDNEY: I'm in, Sonny Boy!
EVANS: I didn't waste words, Herbie, take my word. I says, "look, Figo, I'm not selling you a dozen eggs, I'm selling you HERBIE TEMPLE", I says, so don't gimme your lip!
SIDNEY: Hiya, Al! Since when did you two get
EVANS: Since when did you two get
SIDNEY: How do you do, Mr. Temple.
EVANS: ( uncertain ) I'm Sidney Falco.
SIDNEY: I'm Sidney Falco.
TEMPLE: ( still dubious ) Yeah, delighted.
EVANS: Watch this guy, Herbie, he's a press agent.
TEMPLE: You watch him, Al, I s.s.stutter!
SIDNEY: ( in no way discouraged ) Temple, I caught your act the other night and -
TEMPLE: Did you now? On which bounce?
SIDNEY: - and I just had to drop by and tell you how great I thought you Cheers. What time is it, Al?
TEMPLE: ( dryly ) Cheers. What time is it, Al?
EVANS: You got ten minutes. Hope you don't mind, Falco: we're busy and if -
SIDNEY: No, I don't mind. I'm busy too.
TEMPLE: ( scowling ) Good! We're all off to Utica, so excuse me, Mr. Frannis-on-the-
SIDNEY: But can I ask one impertinent question here? With no criticism intended, because I know, Al, you earn your ten percent, how come you let a sock act like Herbie Temple tip-toe through town without a publicity build.?
EVANS: We're not buying it, Falco - no fish today.
SIDNEY: I'm not selling. I'm just curious, that's all.
TEMPLE: Answer the man, Al, if he asks you a question. Quick, before he thinks up another! Mr. Temple doesn't believe in press agents - does that answer you
EVANS: Mr. Temple doesn't believe in press agents - does that answer you
ANOTHER ANGLE: Evans makes the mistake of laying a hand on Sidney's elbow. Sidney doesn't like people touching him. He reacts in anger, as we have seen before - fixes a burning eye on Evans.
SIDNEY: Take your hand off, lump! No one believes in press agents, Temple, when they make claims they can't perform. I got nothing to sell - I didn't come here to peddle - but if I tell a client that Hunsecker will give him space, it's not just talk!
EVANS: ( after hesitation ) Listen, you bull artist - !
TEMPLE: Let him go, Al.
SIDNEY: But Sidney has already stepped to the phone booth and is
SIDNEY: ( to phone ) Hello? Mary, let me speak to J.J., please.it's Sidney Falco.
REVERSE ANGLE: Shooting past Sidney in foreground onto Temple and Evans beyond, they watch him, open-mouthed. Sidney notes their
SIDNEY: ( to phone ) Tell him it's important.
GLORIA: What? Is this Sidney?.
SIDNEY: ( to phone ) Sure, I'll wait.
EVANS: ( hesitant ) Look, nobody hired you! We didn't talk any deal, and -
SIDNEY: Relax, lump! I told you I'm not selling fish. J.J.Sidney!.How are you, Listen, I know it's late, J.J., but is it too late to add something important to the column? No, not a relative, but important.
REVERSE ANGLE: The comedian and the agent in foreground, Sidney still on the phone beyond.
SIDNEY: Yeah, if you got a pencil there I'll suggest a word or two.
SIDNEY: ( to phone, continuing ) If there's a funnier man in the world than Herbie Temple at the Palace.uh.pardon us for not catching the name, we were too busy laughing. No, make that 'screaming'. ( then ) It's sweet of you, J.J., thanks. Probably see you at Twenty One tonight. No, for supper, late. Right. 'Bye.
TEMPLE: Speak to this lad, Al, . to Mr. See me in my office.
SIDNEY: See me in my office.
CORRIDOR: Sidney walks off in the direction of the exit ( not so fast that he can't be overtaken ). Temple hurries into the corridor and comes after him. Evans also follows, though not so eagerly.
TEMPLE: Wait a minute. Speak to him, Al. Al makes all my deals.
SIDNEY: ( coolly, looking toward Evans ) I don't like a guy that's quick with the hands. ( to Temple ) Temple, you've been three passes behind for twenty years. This could start you off big - T.V. and
TEMPLE: And it would cost a pretty penny, You tell him, I stutter!
SIDNEY: ( to Evans ) You tell him, I stutter!
EVANS: ( shrewdly ) Uh.Why don't we wait till tomorrow?
SIDNEY: ( as he goes ) Wait as long as you like - you know where my office is.
ANOTHER ANGLE: .Steve and D'Angelo waiting for him. Sidney comes into SHOT. Sally remains at her desk while Steve and D'Angelo are silent, looking at Sidney.
SIDNEY: ( perkily ) What is here, a wake?
ANOTHER ANGLE: Steve notes Sidney's too-perfunctory reading.
STEVE: You read as you run, don't you?
SIDNEY: It's a habit with me. So now I'm briefed. So what?
STEVE: ( glancing at D'Angelo ) Frank thinks I shouldn't have come here -
D'ANGELO: ( a quick correction ) Excuse me, Steve. I said namely you shouldn't go around wild, blaming people without justification.
STEVE: ( watchfully, to Sidney ) I thought you might have a faint idea of how this item originated.
REVERSE ANGLE: Favoring Sidney. He pauses.
SIDNEY: Why me.?
STEVE: Why not you?
SIDNEY: That's your idea of logic? I tell the Judge I didn't murder the man - the Judge says, "Why not you?"
STEVE: Only two men in this town could be responsible for that smear - you or Hunsecker or both.
SIDNEY: ( explosively ) Dallas, ask your own manager - he's standing here like a pained wolfhound - Hunsecker and Elwell are enemies to the knife. So how do you get him doing J.J. a favor?
STEVE: ( quickly ) It is a favor, isn't it?
SIDNEY: ( as quickly ) According to you, yeah. ( continuing rapidly and with heat ) Dallas, your mouth is as big as a basket and twice as empty! I don't like you, comma, but neither do I go along with this column saying you smoke marijuana and belong with the Reds. Also, since we're talking repulsive, J.J. won't like this for two cents! Don't give me that look, Dallas - J.J. believes in fair play. And secondly, this could splatter his sister with rotten egg by implication - your her boyfriend!
STEVE: You're talking very fast.
SIDNEY: ( expostulating ) Well, I'll tell you what - excuse me for breathing, will ya? ( wheeling to Sally ) How do you like it? He comes to my office and -
D'ANGELO: Sensing the danger, D'Angelo moves forward soothingly between them.
D'ANGELO: Boys, this gets nobody nowhere - you're over excited, Steve and -
STEVE: ( sharply ) Don't apologize for me, Frank!
D'ANGELO: .excited with good reason, I wanted to say. Because this endangers the future of the whole quintet.
SIDNEY: ( lightly ) Should I cry.?
D'ANGELO: ( continuing ) .People catch on quick to such an item. Van Cleve already called me - he's firing the quintet.
SIDNEY: Then what are you doing here? Go over there and fight! If Van Cleve fires your boy, it gives a lie the ring of truth!
STEVE: I want to speak to Miss Hunsecker, We're on our way there now.
D'ANGELO: ( replying to Sidney's question ) We're on our way there now.
SIDNEY: ( who has wheeled on Steve ) What are you calling her for.?
STEVE: Sidney's reaction to the mention of Susan's name gives Steve food for thought. While he waits for Susan to be summoned to the phone, he studies Sidney.
STEVE: ( to Sidney ) I'm the boyfriend, remember? I hope one day she'll be my wife. ( into the phone, gently ) This is Steve, Susie. Don't be alarmed, Susie, but I want you to look at Elwell's column in The Record.today.No, about me.
SUSAN: A smear?.What.What kind of smear.? Where are you?
STEVE: ( to the phone ) We're on our way to the Elysian Room to dicker with Van Cleve - he's fired us already. I'll call you later, dear. 'Bye!. Come on, Frank.
STEVE: Come on, Frank.
ANOTHER ANGLE: As the door closes behind Steve, Frank follows, more slowly. As D'Angelo reaches the door, he pauses with his hand on the doorknob and turns back to study Sidney.
SIDNEY: He feels uneasy under D'Angelo's scrutiny. Sally, in background, is also watching Sidney.
SIDNEY: ( to D'Angelo ) What are you looking at.?
D'ANGELO: He does not answer for a moment. The unspoken accusation in his look is very clear. Then:
D'ANGELO: ( quietly ) The ugly world, Sidney. ( a pause ) If I told Steve what I really think, he'd tear your head off.
RESUME SIDNEY: He brazens it out.
SIDNEY: ( sneering ) Tell him.
RESUME D'ANGELO: D'Angelo shakes his head.
D'ANGELO: No. I'm interested in his future.
RESUME SIDNEY: He hesitates before turning towards Sally ( because he realizes that this exchange with D'Angelo must have confirmed Sally in her suspicions ).
SALLY: Her face shows that Sidney is right. Sally is deeply hurt, ANOTHER ANGLE Sidney turns to her, challenging.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Sidney turns to her, challenging.
SIDNEY: What's the matter?
SALLY: ( not looking at him )
SIDNEY: You know, Sally, sometimes I get the impression you think you live in Star-Bright Park. This is life, kid - get used to it!
SIDNEY: ( to phone ) Nikko, is Mr. Hunsecker there? This is Mr. Falco. Well, have him call me as soon as he can. It's
SIDNEY: Did you send my folks in Philly the
SALLY: Leaving the bedroom door open, Sidney comes up to her, watches her shrewdly, cautiously.
SIDNEY: ( softly ) I put a lotta trust in you, ( low-voiced ) I know you do, Sidney.
SALLY: ( low-voiced ) I know you do, Sidney.
SIDNEY: Don't judge a situation where you don't know what's involved.
SALLY: I'm not judging. I swear, Sidney, I can't help it - sometimes I wonder what I see in That's no way to talk.
SALLY: ( pathetically ) I swear, Sidney, I can't help it - sometimes I wonder what I see in ( murmuring ) That's no way to talk.
SIDNEY: ( murmuring ) That's no way to talk.
SALLY: Or what you see in me, for that Stay down town tonight. Maybe we'll take in a show, etc.
SIDNEY: Stay down town tonight. Maybe we'll take in a show, etc.
SALLY: If you want me to -
SIDNEY: ( exhilarated ) You see? Hunsecker's gotta phone ME!
SIDNEY: ( calmly ) Hello, J.J..I presume you saw the Elwell smear. ( smiling ) No, no medals - not yet. Oh, it's worse than that - Aunty Van Cleve is firing them.from the horse's mouth. They were just here - in a
HUNSECKER: Who was just there? You'll be the death of me. Sidalee! Why? Didn't you just tell me that they've already traced this smear to you? All they have to do now is to put two and two together and I'm a chicken in a pot!
SIDNEY: J.J., peace on earth, good will to men - it's working out just the way I planned. Yeah, I guarantee this bomb will pop right on schedule, but you have to play your part - you be a Saint and let me be the Devil. But I wanna talk to you
HUNSECKER: Don't come here. Susie is up and He called her? You'd better see me at the TV - three o'clock.
SALLY: What are you going to do?
SIDNEY: ( the wise one ) Chickie, a lotta people think they're smart. You watch. They're dumb: they'll do the work for me! Just watch.
HUNSECKER: The table can wait. No calls. I have to think about my TV show.
NIKKO: Pleased to do. I will come back Did you put the bread out on the terrace for the birds?
HUNSECKER: ( abruptly ) Did you put the bread out on the terrace for the birds?
NIKKO: Yes, but they don't come no more this time of year.
HUNSECKER: Susie! Come in a minute, dear. Susie, you're very much in my thoughts today.
HUNSECKER: Susie, you're very much in my thoughts today.
SUSAN: What a question, dear, with that newspaper in your hand.
HUNSECKER: What a question, dear, with that newspaper in your hand.
SUSAN: ( pausing ) Did Sidney tell you about it?
HUNSECKER: Yes, he phoned. I don't know this boy too well. Anything in these
HUNSECKER: Not being partial, are you?
SUSAN: ( with quiet certainty ) No, I'm not. I'm not!
HUNSECKER: Susie, take it easy. I'll trust your judgment - you don't have to protest with me.
HUNSECKER: Why are you trembling, dear.?
SUSAN: History repeats itself. Everything that happened to Alan Leslie.began with a smear like this.
HUNSECKER: She leaves his arms; he watches keenly.
SUSAN: ( incoherent ) It's just as if I've seen a ghost ( quickly ) But that wasn't your fault, dear, what happened to Leslie. I've told you that a million times.
HUNSECKER: ( quickly ) But that wasn't your fault, dear, what happened to Leslie. I've told you that a million times.
SUSAN: Then whose fault was it, J.J.? It was someone's fault, wasn't it?
HUNSECKER: ( gravely ) I wouldn't have called the boy exactly balanced.
SUSAN: ( stronger ) Alan was not.unbalanced when I married him. And he was not.'indifferent to women' no matter what they said!
HUNSECKER: ( simply ) I'm not fighting with you, puss.
SUSAN: He never would have killed himself if I hadn't gone through with the annulment. Don't you see that made all the rumors seem true? I should have stood up for him.not run out.
SIDNEY: J.J., I want you to get them back their job, Steve and the Quintet.
HUNSECKER: ( "incredulously" ) You mean they've been fired already, on the basis of this crude smear?
HUNSECKER: Susie, you're sure there isn't some fire where there's this much smoke?
SIDNEY: ( earnestly ) I know Steve. No.
HUNSECKER: Then maybe you can tell me if he's as solid as you say, why does he rap me every chance he gets?
SUSAN: ( involuntarily ) Sidney is a liar!
HUNSECKER: Who said Sidney?
SUSAN: ( defiantly ) I said Sidney!.
HUNSECKER: You know, dear, we're drifting apart, you and I, and I don't like I thought we were talking about Let me finish, dear. You had your say, now let me have mine.
SUSAN: I thought we were talking about Let me finish, dear. You had your say, now let me have mine.
HUNSECKER: ( with rasp ) Let me finish, dear. You had your say, now let me have mine.
SUSAN: ( interrupting ) I haven't said anything yet, J.J., but if -
HUNSECKER: ( gently ) I started to say we're drifting apart. A year ago, in your wildest dreams, would you have walked by that door without taking up this situation with me? Today I had to call you in!
SUSAN: I'm taking up the situation with you now.
HUNSECKER: ( interrupting ) Susie, I want to help you, there's nothing I won't do for you. You're all I've got in the whole, wide world.
HUNSECKER: ( continuing ) Well, what have I got? Alimony to a pair of tramps? They're of no concern to me. It's you who count, but don't get me wrong - I don't intend to let you break your neck J.J., you said you want to help me - prove it!
SIDNEY: J.J., you said you want to help me - prove it!
HUNSECKER: ( quietly ) Get Steve back his job.please.
SIDNEY: Get Steve back his job.please.
HUNSECKER: ( pausing ) He means that much to you.?
SIDNEY: ( simply ) ( then ) With your "prestige" it only takes a minute - ten cents worth of American Tel and Tel.
HUNSECKER: You're picking up my lingo, hon.
SIDNEY: ( levelly ) I read your column every day.
HUNSECKER: Susie, I like this new attitude of yours. You're growing up and I like it! I don't like it when you're limp and dependent, when you're odd and wayward. This gives you a chance for real survival in a very lousy world. Because, don't forget, dear, you won't always have me with you, will you.?
SIDNEY: No, I won't. This Dallas boy must be good for you. Why not bring him around today, before the show? This time I'll clean my glasses for a better
HUNSECKER: This Dallas boy must be good for you. Why not bring him around today, before the show? This time I'll clean my glasses for a better
SIDNEY: I'm not sure I can reach him in time.
HUNSECKER: ( easily ) Sure you can if you want to, and I know you'll want to. ( then ) By the way, what's your beef against little Sidney?
SUSAN: ( steadily ) When I'm certain, I'll let you A man couldn't ask for a squarer ( into phone ) Let me have Billy Van Cleve. ( then ) Don't ever tell anyone, Susie, how I'm tied to your apron strings. ( to phone ) Billy! J.J.! What's this about that boy? What boy? Where are we, lug, in a drawing room comedy? You're brain is warming up, sweetheart - yeah, Dallas!. ( then ) No, don't explain your point of view, but.
HUNSECKER: A man couldn't ask for a squarer Let me have Billy Van Cleve. Don't ever tell anyone, Susie, how I'm tied to your apron strings. Billy! J.J.! What's this about that boy? What boy? Where are we, lug, in a drawing room comedy? You're brain is warming up, sweetheart - yeah, Dallas!. No, don't explain your point of view, but.
SIDNEY: Sidney comes up Sixth Avenue towards the theatre. As he reaches the corner of the building, he halts, having seen.
SUSAN: Susan is seen in the act of paying the driver. As the taxi pulls away, Susan walks CAMERA left.
TV THEATRE: Susan pauses, deciding not to enter the theatre; turning she looks about her and waits on the sidewalk outside.
SIDNEY: Sidney decides that this is not the moment to approach Susan. He glances down the sidestreet then moves off in that Sidney moves down the sidestreet towards a stage entrance, through which are emerging some TV technicians. He slips INT. TV STATION Hunsecker is standing at a table, stop watch in hand, reading aloud from a script which he is rehearsing and timing. Beside him sits Mary busy typing more of the material from Hunsecker's handwritten note. Mary is calm, but he is irritable, trying to concentrate despite the bustle around him. An old movie star, MILDRED TAM, sits waiting in one of the canvas-backed chairs supplied for the guests on the show. BURTON, a manager, also waits, deadpan, at Hunsecker's elbow. Hunsecker clicks his stop watch as he reads:
SIDESTREET: Sidney moves down the sidestreet towards a stage entrance, through which are emerging some TV technicians. He slips INT. TV STATION Hunsecker is standing at a table, stop watch in hand, reading aloud from a script which he is rehearsing and timing. Beside him sits Mary busy typing more of the material from Hunsecker's handwritten note. Mary is calm, but he is irritable, trying to concentrate despite the bustle around him. An old movie star, MILDRED TAM, sits waiting in one of the canvas-backed chairs supplied for the guests on the show. BURTON, a manager, also waits, deadpan, at Hunsecker's elbow. Hunsecker clicks his stop watch as he reads:
HUNSECKER: "I was reminded of it this morning, when I noticed that the birds had gone South. We want the same kind of freedom for ourselves - that's what the man said! A man has the right to face his accusers! That's the American Way! Who said? The man said! From."
HUNSECKER: Burton, don't stand around. If I go over I'll cut some items off the
SIDNEY: SHOOTING towards the auditorium, from Hunsecker's viewpoint. Sidney mounts the steps onto the stage. Seeing that the columnist is surrounded but knowing that J.J. wants to talk to him privately, Sidney loiters so that J.J. can join him as soon as he chooses to. CAMERA PULLS BACK to include Hunsecker. Only momentarily distracted by private considerations connected with Sidney's arrival, Hunsecker returns to the business of timing the script. He clicks the watch again.
HUNSECKER: "From Washington through to Jefferson, from Lincoln and F.D.R. right up to today - the Democratic Way of Life! That's what the man said! Nowadays it doesn't export to well. But you know.and I know.that our best secret weapon is D-E-M-O-
ANOTHER ANGLE: Sidney lingers beside the old movie star who is listening, rapt, to Hunsecker's words. Sidney is less impressed with J.J.'s eloquence. At the conclusion, Mildred applauds lightly. She stands up and moves towards J.J. J.J. wants to talk to Sidney but is frustrated by the old movie star.
MILDRED TAM: That's grand, just grand, J.J.! Is my makeup all right? You know, despite the scads of movies I've made, I've never appeared on TV Of course, Mildred. Of course. You look fine. Mary, help Miss Tam - anything she wants; she's our star today.
HUNSECKER: ( cutting her short ) Of course, Mildred. Of course. You look fine. ( swiftly summoning Mary ) Mary, help Miss Tam - anything she wants; she's our star today.
ANOTHER ANGLE: A TRACKING SHOT. Sidney comes up beside Hunsecker, falls into step beside him. As they cross towards a water cooler at the back of the stage, they talk in rapid undertone.
HUNSECKER: I got that boy coming over here. What's so funny?
SIDNEY: ( who is smiling faintly ) With a pocket fulla firecrackers - ( narrowly ) I think you loused this up but good. If I can trust my eyes, and I think I can, Susie knows all about your dirty work.
HUNSECKER: ( narrowly ) I think you loused this up but good. If I can trust my eyes, and I think I can, Susie knows all about your dirty work.
SIDNEY: ( shrugging ) Can't hurt.
HUNSECKER: ( incredulously ) Can't hurt? I had to get him back his job.
SIDNEY: ( smugly ) I like that, too. ( closer, faster ) Look, J.J., we can wrap this up in one neat bundle, addressed to the dumps - to oblivion. We're going great, but please play it my way. I cased this kid. Know his ins and outs.He's fulla juice and vinegar, just begging for some big shot like you to give him a squeeze. Do little Sidney a favor: squeeze! - You know, J.J. - the porcupine bit - needles.
HUNSECKER: But it's too late. I got him back the job.
SIDNEY: ( impatiently ) No, that's the point - he won't accept your favor! The manager yes, but not the boy.
HUNSECKER: Well he's got her in a tizzy, I'll tell you that!
SIDNEY: Sure, he steams her up - wants her to stand on her own two feet and all that jazz!
HUNSECKER: And who's feet is she on now?
SIDNEY: Presumably yours. That's according to St. Dallas.
HUNSECKER: What's this boy got that Susie likes?
SIDNEY: Integrity - acute, like indigestion.
HUNSECKER: What does that mean - integrity?
SIDNEY: ( repeating as before ) A pocket fulla firecrackers - looking for a match! ( grinning ) It's a new wrinkle to tell the truth. I never thought I'd make a killing on some guy's "integrity".
HUNSECKER: Full of beans, ain't you? But you know that you'll stand or fall by what you're doing now.
SIDNEY: ( grins; confidently ) Calculated risk. Only we happen to know, J.J., that you like me. I'm your star pupil I reflect back to you your own talent.
HUNSECKER: I wouldn't like to take a bite of you; you're a cookie full of arsenic.
STEVE: ( depressed ) I still think he's responsible for the smear.
D'ANGELO: Not that I'm convinced, but you'll never prove it in a million years. Steve, you'll do what you want, but it can't hurt; he offers you an olive branch - so today like olives!
STEVE: I guess you're right, but -
D'ANGELO: D'Angelo studies the boy with a paternal affection.
D'ANGELO: Steve, sometimes it's better not to look at your own honesty; but to look the other man in the face. Not because you're my meal ticket - which you are - but because I like you and the boys, please take my advice: we -
STEVE: He is looking through the glass doors of the TV Theatre, no longer listening to D'Angelo's words; his face has hardened in anger.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Susan is waiting in the foyer. She is standing in a position where she has not been able to see Steve until he enters; now she moves forward to greet him. As soon as she is near him, she speaks in a quiet, urgent manner:
SUSAN: ( in an undertone ) Steve, before we go in - I'd like
SIDNEY: He is already strolling forward to join them. CAMERA PANS with him to include Susie, Steve and D'Angelo.
SIDNEY: Hey, Susie - This is a real surprise not one but three. J.J.'s just finishing up his
STAGE: Hunsecker comes forward to the front of the stage looking STEVE, SUSAN, D'ANGELO AND SIDNEY In the group that comes down the aisle of the empty theatre.
RESUME HUNSECKER: He studies them, then calls out:
HUNSECKER: Looks like a wedding.
REVERSE ANGLE: Hunsecker back to CAMERA in foreground; he begins to whistle The Wedding March to the rhythm of Steve and Susan's walk.
STEVE: He breaks the rhythm of his stride, his face rigid.
RESUME HUNSECKER: He descends to meet them; his manner is full of welcome.
REVERSE ANGLE: Susan nervously makes the introduction - Steve is nervous; D'Angelo hangs behind warily; Sidney is in background.
SUSAN: Steve, you remember my brother.
HUNSECKER: Well, son, looks like you went out and bought yourself a packet of You've been very kind about it, Mr. Give Susie credit for that. I took her word that there was nothing to the smear. Matter of fact, I'll have my say about smears on the show today. That's why I'd like YOUR personal assurance, too.
STEVE: You've been very kind about it, Mr. Give Susie credit for that. I took her word that there was nothing to the smear. Matter of fact, I'll have my say about smears on the show today. That's why I'd like YOUR personal assurance, too.
HUNSECKER: Give Susie credit for that. I took her word that there was nothing to the smear. Matter of fact, I'll have my say about smears on the show today. That's why I'd like YOUR personal assurance, too.
STEVE: ( quietly ) Mr. Hunsecker, there's nothing to that smear. You have my sincere ( nodding judicially ) I'll by that, son. Now, you owe ME a favor. ( pausing; to Susan ) Be good to my kid sister.
HUNSECKER: ( nodding judicially ) I'll by that, son. Now, you owe ME a favor. ( pausing; to Susan ) Be good to my kid sister.
SIDNEY: ( solemnly ) Yeah, she's had a peck of trouble for a kid.
HUNSECKER: Susie likes to keep her girlish secrets. But in her heart of hearts I imagine, Dallas, that she fancies you in an uncommon way. Now, what about YOU, son? Not just tom-catting around.I hope?
SUSAN: ( quickly ) J.J., Steve isn't.
HUNSECKER: Take it easy, Susie. He wouldn't be much of a man if he didn't understand my concern. Would you, No, I wouldn't.
STEVE: ( pausing, quietly ) No, I wouldn't.
HUNSECKER: ( nodding ) Serious as a deacon.I like it. I like your style, son! In a world of old rags and bones, I like it! For instance, take Sidney.
D'ANGELO: No, Mr. Hunsecker, and if I can Don't amplify.
HUNSECKER: ( motionless ) Don't amplify.
D'ANGELO: Steve wantsa thank you for this favor. He
GROUP SHOT: ( provocatively ) Frank, you don't listen! J.J. just told you to shut your mouth!
SIDNEY: ( provocatively ) Frank, you don't listen! J.J. just told you to shut your mouth!
STEVE: ( hotly ) Don't you think it's about time you shut yours? Who are you to tell a man like Frank D'Angelo to shut up?!
D'ANGELO: ( warningly ) Steve, that isn't important
STEVE: Does he have to be here in our hair?
HUNSECKER: Why, has he bothered you before?
HUNSECKER: Why, has he bothered you before?
STEVE: Is it news to you?
HUNSECKER: Son, lots of people tell me I'm a gifted man, but I still can't see around corners.
HUNSECKER: Son, lots of people tell me I'm a gifted man, but I still can't see around corners.
GROUP SHOT: ( tolerantly ) Just exactly what are you so hot ( waiting ) I mean, I know it's a difficult thing to be an artist in this crudest of possible worlds, but
HUNSECKER: ( tolerantly ) Just exactly what are you so hot ( waiting ) I mean, I know it's a difficult thing to be an artist in this crudest of possible worlds, but
STEVE: ( impatiently ) Nuts! I'm not here as an artist! I'm here as an average Joe, who happens to love your sister Susie!
HUNSECKER: ( with ironic smirk ) Well, just be careful you don't knock her down, huh?
HUNSECKER: ( affably ) Frankly, son, you lost me on that last hill. Just give us the punch ( agreeably ) No punch line. Maybe I was just admiring your know-how-yours and Why do you keep coupling me with ( innocently ) He's here, isn't he? Do you think, sir, when he dies he'll go to the dog and cat heaven?
STEVE: ( agreeably ) No punch line. Maybe I was just admiring your know-how-yours and Why do you keep coupling me with ( innocently ) He's here, isn't he? Do you think, sir, when he dies he'll go to the dog and cat heaven?
HUNSECKER: Why do you keep coupling me with He's here, isn't he? Do you think, sir, when he dies he'll go to the dog and cat heaven?
STEVE: ( innocently ) He's here, isn't he? Do you think, sir, when he dies he'll go to the dog and cat heaven?
SIDNEY: Let's forget cats and dogs and other pseudo-literary remarks- I'll just lay it on the line! What about that big rumpus in my office today? You were there, Frank! Where, according to St. Dallas, J.J. was responsible for the Elwell smear!
HUNSECKER: Don't go wild, Sidney.
HUNSECKER: Don't go wild, Sidney.
GROUP SHOT: Wild? Take a look at them and see who's wild. What about that.?
SIDNEY: Wild? Take a look at them and see who's wild. What about that.?
HUNSECKER: What about that.?
D'ANGELO: ( uneasily ) Steve was excited.he didn't mean it exactly the way it's stated ( to Steve ) How did you mean it.?
HUNSECKER: ( to Steve ) How did you mean it.?
HUNSECKER: Both of you keep quiet! You've made more damage here in one minute than a plague of locusts! If you're tired, Susie, sit down- this needs investigation! How did you mean it.? Come on, let's go! Let's go!. I don't take kindly to you and Falco selling me ethics. Who's the injured party here, you?
STEVE: I don't take kindly to you and Falco selling me ethics. Who's the injured party here, you?
HUNSECKER: ( with contempt ) Right now you're in no position to ask questions! And your snide ( stronger ) Wait a minute, I haven't handed over punishing privileges to you YET! Put the whip down and I might respect what you're saying.
STEVE: ( stronger ) Wait a minute, I haven't handed over punishing privileges to you YET! Put the whip down and I might respect what you're saying.
HUNSECKER: Susie, did you know about this Before you leave, son, I'll answer your question-Susan Hunsecker is the injured party here! Or will I be hearing next that I don't even have my sister's welfare at heart.
SUSAN: ( mutely ) ( abruptly ) Before you leave, son, I'll answer your question-Susan Hunsecker is the injured party here! ( balefully ) Or will I be hearing next that I don't even have my sister's welfare at heart.
SUSAN: ( mutely ) ( abruptly ) Before you leave, son, I'll answer your question-Susan Hunsecker is the injured party here! ( balefully ) Or will I be hearing next that I don't even have my sister's welfare at heart.
HUNSECKER: ( abruptly ) Before you leave, son, I'll answer your question-Susan Hunsecker is the injured party here! ( balefully ) Or will I be hearing next that I don't even have my sister's welfare at heart.
HUNSECKER: ( abruptly ) Before you leave, son, I'll answer your question-Susan Hunsecker is the injured party here! ( balefully ) Or will I be hearing next that I don't even have my sister's welfare at heart.
STEVE: Mr. Hunsecker, you've got more twists than a barrel of pretzels.
HUNSECKER: ( unturning ) You hear that, Susie. ( to Steve ) Continue please.
STEVE: ( shaking his head ) I'm afraid I can't cope with them.
REVERSE ANGLE: Susan in foreground, Steve, Hunsecker and Sidney beyond.
SIDNEY: Give him credit-the boy's gall is Why don't we hear what Susie has to That's stout of you, Dallas, but Susie may not care to air her dismal views in public.
STEVE: Why don't we hear what Susie has to That's stout of you, Dallas, but Susie may not care to air her dismal views in public.
HUNSECKER: ( sardonically ) That's stout of you, Dallas, but Susie may not care to air her dismal views in public.
STEVE: She stares at the floor.
SUSAN: She stares at the floor.
HUNSECKER: Susie, as always, is free to say anything she thinks. Go on, dear, say exactly what's on your mind, Those "dears" sound like daggers. May I suggest that you stop DARING her to speak?
STEVE: Those "dears" sound like daggers. May I suggest that you stop DARING her to speak?
HUNSECKER: May I lift my eyebrows? What is this? What are you trying to do?
STEVE: ( strongly ) I'm trying to get Susie to stand up to you. But your manner is so threatening that she's afraid to Son, you raise your voice again and you'll be outa here on your golden
HUNSECKER: Son, you raise your voice again and you'll be outa here on your golden
SUSAN: Suddenly Susan lets loose, with restrained nervous energy; she is near to tears.
SUSAN: Steve, if only for my sake, I want this stopped! And the same goes for you, too, J.J.!
HUNSECKER: He interjects.
HUNSECKER: ( contritely ) Susie, I'm sorry if-
RESUME SUSAN: ( bitterly ) Sometimes I think ALL men are
SUSAN: ( bitterly ) Sometimes I think ALL men are
HUNSECKER: You see, Dallas, a plague on both our houses. We may have to call this game on account of darkness.
HUNSECKER: If looks could kill, I'm dead.
STEVE: ( slowly ) No, I don't care about you you're fantastic. My whole interest, if it's not too late, is in Susie.and how to undo what you've done to her.
HUNSECKER: ( smiling ) And what have I done to her, besides not buy her a new fur coat lately? Sidney, you were right the boy's a dilly.
STEVE: ( stung ) Why? Because I don't like the way you toy with human lives? - Your contempt and malice? Because I won't be the accomplice of your sick ego - and the way it's crippled Susie.? You think of yourself - you and your column - you see yourself as a national glory.but to me, and thousands of others like me, you and your slimy scandal, your phony patriotics - to me, Mr. Hunsecker, you are a national ( blandly ) Son, I don't fancy shooting mosquitoes with elephant guns. So suppose you just shuffle along and call it a day.
HUNSECKER: ( blandly ) Son, I don't fancy shooting mosquitoes with elephant guns. So suppose you just shuffle along and call it a day.
STEVE: But my day with Susie isn't over yet and
HUNSECKER: ( cold ) Ten'll get you fifty you're playing hookey from a padded cell!
STAGE: Hunsecker comes up the steps from the auditorium, Sidney following closely behind. In background, beyond, Steve and D'Angelo are walking up the aisle to the exit. CAMERA TRACKS CLOSE on Sidney and Hunsecker. Hunsecker's face is rigid. Sidney, close at his elbow, whispers:
SIDNEY: ( softly ) You did it, J.J., you did it good.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Susan is still standing in the wings. Mary is with her, obviously sympathetic. The girl is drying her eyes with Kleenex, and Mary glances at her employer with a look of reproach. Hunsecker walks round the table, obviously trying to approach Susan; seeing this, Susan turns away and moves further from him. Hunsecker stops.
HUNSECKER: There is some emotion in his face as he looks towards the girl. More gently, he moves forward past CAMERA.
SUSAN: Sensing the approach of Hunsecker behind her, she moves away again; she is still crying, but is trying to recover. Presently Hunsecker approaches her again. He speaks very gently, soothingly, comforting.
HUNSECKER: ( softly ) You in a mood, Susie, to run over to Milgrim's later and buy a few new frocks?
SUSAN: ( a small voice ) No. I'm going home.
HUNSECKER: Want Sidney to drive you over?
HUNSECKER: Drive Susie home.
HUNSECKER: Again we see some emotion in his face as he studies the girl. His eyes flick towards the stage behind him where Sidney stands watching. He moves gently forward and then speaks in a quiet voice which reveals how desperately he needs her
HUNSECKER: Susie.I.I'd have to take it very much amiss if you ever saw that boy again.
SUSAN: After a pause, she turns towards him; she looks him straight in the face.
SUSAN: ( levelly ) I'll never see him again.
RESUME HUNSECKER: He seems to take this as a gesture of forgiveness from her. Now he touches her. His need for her is apparent; he tries to reach her, tries to find an excuse to embrace her. She submits to this very passively.
SUSAN: A VERY CLOSE SHOT. We see the effort with which she is controlling herself.
RESUME HUNSECKER: He goes back to Mary and the script. He instructs her:
HUNSECKER: Call Van Cleve. Tell him he was right. Tell him I said the Dallas boys are not worthy of his club.
HUNSECKER: ( without looking up ) Mary.for Susie's own good.don't give her misplaced sympathy.
SIDNEY: I'll get you a cab.
SUSAN: ( coldly ) Get away from me.
SIDNEY: J.J. asked me to drive you over and -
RESUME SIDNEY: Uncertain what to do, whether to follow her or not, he moves after her.
SUSAN: She has already opened the door of the taxi. She turns to see Sidney come up behind her. As he enters SHOT, she She starts to get into the cab.
SUSAN: I told you to leave! I don't know if Steve'll ever talk to me again and I'm ready to blame it all on you!
SIDNEY: Alert, he moves to detain her ( anxious to know exactly the extent of her suspicion. )
SIDNEY: ANOTHER ANGLE As Sidney steps up, he grasps at the door of the taxi, trying to hold it open, but Susan pulls it shut, catching his fingers in the door. Sidney steps back in pain.
ANOTHER ANGLE: As Sidney steps up, he grasps at the door of the taxi, trying to hold it open, but Susan pulls it shut, catching his fingers in the door. Sidney steps back in pain.
TAXI: It drives off down Sixth Avenue.
SIDNEY: Nursing the injury to his hand, he looks after the disappearing taxi. As he recovers from the pain, his expression slowly changes to one of thoughtful appraisal. ( Susan's suspicions maybe of less importance than some other considerations. )
HUNSECKER: So that's what "integrity" looks like. Well, I'm always willing to How is that slob, D'Angelo, your
SIDNEY: My mother's sideher brother. That reminds me, J.J., Susie looks run down. She can stand a vacation and so can you. People say, "Oh, the great J.J., he's made of iron!", but you can use a rest, guy.
HUNSECKER: What are you so chipper about? If I put a cross on every one of your mistakes, you'd look like a But not for anything I did today.
SIDNEY: ( smiling ) But not for anything I did today.
HUNSECKER: Sidney, I know human nature. Susie lied to me - she'll see that boy
SIDNEY: You're right, J.J. - she won't give him up, but it doesn't matter. Because the real "money ball" is the boy, not Susan. And if
MATRE D': Mr. Hunsecker this was to be delivered to you personally -
HUNSECKER: These drinks are warm.
WAITER: You said you like to have them on your table.
HUNSECKER: What are you a critic?
WAITER: I'll change
HUNSECKER: Forget it. The real money ball is the boy.
SIDNEY: Yeah, the boy.we're on the verge of a farce, a real farce. As I see it, if Susie had stood behind him today he might have proved a threat. But since primarily he's wedded to his work, he's not going to be able to take it. Stop tinkering, pal - that horse radish won't jump a fence!
HUNSECKER: ( to waiter ) Stop tinkering, pal - that horse radish won't jump a fence!
SIDNEY: In brief, J.J., it's all over because any hour now the boy will give her up. Is it a farce or not? This syrup you're giving out, Sidney, you pour over waffles, not J.J. Hunsecker! What do you mean that lousy kid will give up my
HUNSECKER: This syrup you're giving out, Sidney, you pour over waffles, not J.J. Hunsecker! What do you mean that lousy kid will give up my
HUNSECKER: Are you listening?
SIDNEY: ( warily ) How does it matter who's sister? The main thing, they're through and -
HUNSECKER: From Sidney's viewpoint. Without turning, Hunsecker
HUNSECKER: Am I supposed to forget how that boy talked to me today?
SIDNEY: J.J., is he worthy of a second glance from a man like you? Is he, I mean?.
HUNSECKER: From Sidney's viewpoint. Pausing during the process of eating, Hunsecker reaches into an inside pocket.
HUNSECKER: Brief epitaph: "The boy was talking when he should have been listening." Bite on this.
SIDNEY: Steamship tickets?
HUNSECKER: ( as he eats ) For the next sailing of the Mary. Susan's run down - she's never been abroad and as you so cogently put it, I'm not made of iron.
SIDNEY: That's good. Now that louse is outa Susie's hair for good.
SIDNEY: He has an instinct to laugh; but something tells him not to.
HUNSECKER: As Sidney makes no response, Hunsecker slowly, carefully continues in a voice which is dangerously soft:
HUNSECKER: I want that boy taken apart.
SIDNEY: ( seriously ) Why do something that would drive them right back into each other's arms? Not to mention that this time Susie would know who shot the ( interjecting quietly ) She knows now.
HUNSECKER: ( interjecting quietly ) She knows now.
SIDNEY: ( quickly ) Why give her real proof? You nearly ruined her with her first husband - and you were right, J.J., - but she almost followed him out the window. What do you want - a chronic invalid?
HUNSECKER: He wants no advice from Sidney. He interrupts with quiet
HUNSECKER: I know how to handle Susie. You just handle the boy, Sidney. .preferably tonight.
SIDNEY: Why, what's tomorrow - a holiday?
SIDNEY: I think I'll go home - maybe I left my sense of humor in another suit.
HUNSECKER: Hunsecker finishes eating. During the ensuing speech, which he begins quietly and sensibly, Hunsecker's venomous feelings are unexpectedly betrayed.
HUNSECKER: You've got that God-given brain - learn to use it! Do you think it's a personal matter with me, this boy? Are you telling me I see things in terms of personal pique? Don't you see that today that boy wiped his feet on the choice, on the predilections of sixty million men and women of the greatest country in the world! If you had any morals yourself, you would understand the immorality of that boy's stand today! It was not me he criticized - it was my readers!.
SIDNEY: Sidney's face has tightened. He has begun now to realize the extent of this man's megalomania. After a moment he
SIDNEY: I'm leaving, J.J..
HUNSECKER: ( a quiet warning ) Don't remove the gangplank, Sidney; you may wanna get back on board.
SIDNEY: Sidney feels the chill of despair upon him.
HUNSECKER: This crab gumbo - terrific!
SIDNEY: J.J., it's one thing to wear your dog collar.but when it gets to be a noose.I'd rather have my freedom.
HUNSECKER: The man in jail is always for
SIDNEY: ( as he rises ) Except, if you'll excuse me, I'm not in jail.
HUNSECKER: From Sidney's viewpoint.
HUNSECKER: ( easily ) Sure you're in jail, Sidney. You're a prisoner of your own fears, of your own greed and ambition; you're in jail.
SIDNEY: From Hunsecker's viewpoint.
SIDNEY: J.J. If you're trying to -
HUNSECKER: ( interrupting ) You, little boy, don't know who you are! Talking around corners with the big shots, ten dollar dinners - fourteen suits and cashmere coats - you tell yourself THAT'S who you are! Later you won't know who you are without a penthouse on upper Park! But underneath it all, ratting around from day to day, you DO know who you are! You're a fearful, ignorant nobody - a poor wop kid from the slums of Philly - hoping nobody else finds it out!
SIDNEY: A CLOSE UP. He knows the truth of what is said. But he takes refuge in quiet retaliation:
SIDNEY: A little hunch occurs to me - you have just painted a self-portrait. You know who YOU are because you scare people - that's what you've got against this boy. He -
HUNSECKER: Hunsecker is prepared to give it out, but not take it.
HUNSECKER: ( cutting in ) I told you what I want you to do
SIDNEY: He looks down on Hunsecker, leans over the table.
SIDNEY: You're blind, Mr. Magoo. This is a crossroads for me. I won't get Kello. Not for a life-time pass to the Polo Grounds. Not if you serve me Ingrid Bergman on a plate.
HUNSECKER: ( over patient ) Sidney, I told you -
SIDNEY: ( continuing ) J.J., I swear to you on my mother's life, I won't do it. ( he leans even closer ) If you gave me your COLUMN I wouldn't do a thing like that.
SIDNEY: We see that an idea has entered his head - an idea that takes the wind out of his indignation. His eyes lift rapidly to Hunsecker's face.
HUNSECKER: ( delicately touching the envelope ) And who do you think writes the column while Susie and I are away for three months?.
RESUME SIDNEY: He is quite speechless. Over scene Hunsecker's voice:
HUNSECKER: ( softly ) Thank you, Sidney.
HUNSECKER: And, Sidney, I'll have that piece of paper back.
STEVE: She'll be down in a minute.
D'ANGELO: What does she wanna see you about?
STEVE: She didn't say.
D'ANGELO: I could think of better places to meet her, instead of here. He lives on the whole top floor.
STEVE: ( carelessly ) I doubt that it matters any more.
D'ANGELO: He addresses Steve soberly.
D'ANGELO: Steve. You made a very dangerous enemy of him today. Matter of fact, I'm very glad we got the tour ahead. If I'm any judge, you hurt him today where he lives. He won't forget it and he won't
SUSAN: ( as she comes forward to join them ) Good evening, Mr. D'Angelo. Hello, Steve. I'm glad you could Why did you call me?
SUSAN: Hello, Steve. I'm glad you could Why did you call me?
STEVE: Why did you call me?
SUSAN: Would you buy me a cup of coffee? In there.
REVERSE ANGLE: Susan nods in the direction of the door into the little cafe.
STEVE: As he walks with her towards the cafe:
STEVE: We're on our way to Robard's for a benefit. I've only got five
COUNTERMAN: Too late for service.
STEVE: Just two cups of java.
COUNTERMAN: ( with a twinkle ) We serve here only moka coffee.
STEVE: ( smiling faintly ) Make it moke.
SUSAN: Steve.what you tried to do today.you tried to take me up on a high mountain.I couldn't go all the way.I failed you. Will you forgive me? Have I lost you, Steve? Have I.?
STEVE: Well, maybe I was wrong, too. But there's no doubt, Susie, that we have to face some serious things.
SUSAN: No one's ever stood up to my brother the way you did.
STEVE: ( quietly, to the point ) But you didn't do much about it, Susie. You walked out, and there I was.solo.and not too good at I just didn't think that I could antagonize him, Steve for OUR sake, I mean.
SUSAN: I just didn't think that I could antagonize him, Steve for OUR sake, I mean.
STEVE: Susie, I was there for OUR sake, too. But what a world it would be if we were all afraid to learn to walk and talk because it might offend poppa! By the way, I think your brother was completely responsible for the smears.
STEVE: Susie, I was there for OUR sake, too. But what a world it would be if we were all afraid to learn to walk and talk because it might offend poppa! By the way, I think your brother was completely responsible for the smears.
SUSAN: This accusation is made lightly, in passing. But Susan reacts to it, trying to interject:
SUSAN: Steve, I.
STEVE: ( overriding her ) But I don't care about that now. He knew what he was doing today. He was laying down the conditions under which he MIGHT consent to our marriage - if I would bend to every whim of his, like Sidney! I couldn't do that, Susie.
SUSAN: After a pause, she says:
SUSAN: You're saying goodbye, aren't you?
STEVE: No! I'm saying that for your sake you have to make a clean break with your brother!
SUSAN: ( wrenched ) But, please, Steve, please - one step at a time! I was born only ( pausing, softer ) I told your brother I couldn't be his accomplice. I can't be yours either, Susie, and encourage him to go on pulverizing you. I know what type - he's my old man all over
STEVE: ( pausing, softer ) I told your brother I couldn't be his accomplice. I can't be yours either, Susie, and encourage him to go on pulverizing you. I know what type - he's my old man all over
ANOTHER ANGLE: Steve stoops to pick it up, replaces it on her shoulders.
STEVE: This beautiful coat is more than just a coat. I hate it! It's a mink straight-jacket!
SUSAN: ( drooping ) Steve, I feel exhausted.what do you want me to do?
STEVE: ( not sure of himself ) Not what you're doing now. At least don't ask me - don't ask him. You're fighting for your life! What do YOU want to do?
SUSAN: ( pausing, woodenly ) You are saying goodbye, aren't
STEVE: He reacts vigorously, protesting:
STEVE: ( impatiently ) That's fish four days old.! I can't buy it, Susie! Right out of that mouth I love, like you're a ventriloquist's dummy, your BROTHER is saying goodbye! Gee!.you want me to be honest, don't you?!
SUSAN: A despairing cry:
SUSAN: No, Steve, I don't. I don't. Not if it KILLS me I don't!.
SUSAN: ( without luster ) Let's not talk any more.you have to go.
HALLWAY: D'Angelo is waiting for them. Silently they come up to join him, very depressed. Susan looks towards D'Angelo, speaks a little pathetically:
SUSAN: Goodbye, Mr. D'Angelo. Take care of Steve.
D'ANGELO: ( softly ) I will, Miss Hunsecker.
SUSAN: Say something funny.Mr.
SUSAN: She remains just in the attitude in which he left her.
STEVE: ( after a moment ) Look back, Frank, see if she's still standing there.
SUSAN: From D'Angelo's point of view. She is still standing where Steve left her.
D'ANGELO: Still there.
D'ANGELO: ( with sympathy ) Not that I don't like her - she's a very lovely person, but who can tell? A year from now you might thank your stars that it turned out this way. ( changing the subject ) By the way, Robard said that.
STEVE: Frank, I don't want to make the benefit. They'll be jammin' all night, and the way I feel I'd like to be alone I'd like just to walk and walk and never come back.
D'ANGELO: No. I don't leave you alone on a night like this. And, anyway, you
SUSAN: An angle, shooting sharply upwards against the night sky. Wind blows the girl's hair, as she looks fixedly downwards. Her face is blank, expressionless. ( For a moment we may fear for her, afraid that she may have suicide in mind. ) But presently she lifts her head looking towards the horizon.
DETAIL: As he hangs up his coat, Sidney identifies the other coat, a black and white check raglan which he ( and we ) saw Steve wearing when he visited Hunsecker at the TV Studio.
SIDNEY: A CLOSE SHOT. The coat appears to have some significance for him; Sidney is under tension. A waiter, carrying a carton of beer cans, comes out of the doorway just behind Sidney, moving between him and the overcoat. Thus interrupted, Sidney turns away.
D'ANGELO: Lew, Steve don't feel too good.
ROBARD: ( interjecting ) I'm sorry to hear it.
REVERSE ANGLE: CAMERA shoots past D'Angelo and Robard in f.g. towards Sidney, who overhears:
D'ANGELO: ( continuing ) .So, if you don't mind, he'll leave after this set.
ROBARD: I like that boy, Frank. Anything he does is okay with me.
SIDNEY: Sidney, thinking rapidly, leaves the bar, moving unobtrusively but purposefully towards a telephone booth. He enters and closes the door.
PHONE BOOTH: A CLOSER ANGLE. Shooting through the glass panel we see Sidney dialing. His manner is urgent.
CLOSER ANGLE: As the car comes to a stop, CAMERA shoots across the hood onto the windshield where we see the insignia: POLICE. The occupants of the car are not visible.
SIDNEY: A CLOSE UP. As he turns in swift apprehension, we note the moment of panic in his face.
REVERSE ANGLE: CAMERA shoots past Sidney in foreground towards D'Angelo who advances on Sidney. D'Angelo's manner is unfriendly; for an instant we feel, like Sidney, that D'Angelo may have seen Sidney tampering with Steve's coat, but then we are reassured as D'Angelo, deliberately using Sidney's surname, says:
D'ANGELO: ( continuing ) Mr. Falco.I hate to give you this satisfaction - they broke it off tonight for good.
REVERSE ANGLE: Shooting across D'Angelo onto Sidney, who now relaxes, his fears ungrounded.
D'ANGELO: ( continuing ) Tell that to Hunsecker - tell him we agree - he's a big man - he wins all the marbles!
SIDNEY: As D'Angelo moves away again Sidney looks after him. Once more his face goes tense. ( He asks himself, does this development - which he himself anticipated - change the situation? ) He turns away, moving out of shot.
ANOTHER ANGLE: CAMERA moves with Sidney as he walks towards the doorway. There he hesitates again; he looks back into the club.
DALLAS: From Sidney's viewpoint. A LONG SHOT of Steve on the bandstand. CAMERA PANS deliberately towards the coatrack in f.g. A group of newly arrived musicians walk into the shot, setting down their instrument cases and starting to hang up their coats. ( Clearly, Sidney could not now return to the coat rack - even if he decided that he did want to undo his handiwork. )
RESUME SIDNEY: CAMERA, shooting out across the square, frames Sidney in f.g. Facing the inevitable, Sidney turns away, walks across the sidewalk. On the other side of the square the headlamps of the car blink twice. Sidney walks towards it.
POLICE CAR: A big man gets out of the seat next to the driver. As he comes round the hood of the car, the headlamps of a passing truck illuminate him, identifying HARRY KELLO. CAMERA PANS as he walks to meet Sidney.
CLOSER ANGLE: Kello pauses as Sidney comes up to him, asks affably:
KELLO: What's all the rush? You said three o'clock.
SIDNEY: ( glancing back towards club ) He's leaving early. After this "set". He'll be out in a couple of
1ST POLICEMAN: What's this deal tonight?
MURPH: ( the 2nd policeman ) One of the lieutenant's "surprise parties", I think.
1ST POLICEMAN: One of these days I'd like to turn in my badge and tangle with "POPSIE" myself - he's no good.
SIDNEY: Can't you wait up the block? It's not going to look so good, right in front of the club.
KELLO: ( heavily humorous ) It's nice, Sidney, that you give me this tip.
SIDNEY: ( interjecting ) - He's got them on him.
KELLO: ( solemnly nodding his approval ) .And he's got them on him. I appreciate a thing like that - I appreciate where you are looking out for the virtue of the city.
KELLO: What's your hurry, Snooks?
SIDNEY: ( revolted ) Take your hands off, Kello. Murph, how do you like this face? Why, I'll be darned it's melting! Something got you scared, Sidney.? Listen, rectify me a certain thing. Wasn't you kidding, Snooks, when you told J.J. I was fat.?
KELLO: Murph, how do you like this face? Why, I'll be darned it's melting! Something got you scared, Sidney.? Listen, rectify me a certain thing. Wasn't you kidding, Snooks, when you told J.J. I was fat.?
SIDNEY: Sleep in peace, Kello you're skinny but J.J. says you sweat!
ANOTHER ANGLE: Sidney in foreground, Kello and Murph beyond. Kello laughs; but obviously he would like to be nearer to Sidney. Perhaps to detain Sidney, Kello drawls:
KELLO: Is that a fact? He's a dilly, ain't he? By the by, what did he have against this boy?
SIDNEY: He goes out with girls.
KELLO: Well, I'll be darned. And what does J.J. think he SHOULD do?
SIDNEY: ( impudently ) Go out with DIFFERENT girls!
KELLO: He moves forward a little.
KELLO: ( softly now ) I get the peculiar impression, Snooks, that you don't like me. Could I be wrong?
SIDNEY: He turns swiftly and goes up the stairs out of Kello's reach.
SIDNEY: ( as he goes ) You could be right, you fat slob?
ANOTHER ANGLE: From half-way up the stairs. Sidney comes up the steps two at a time. Kello and Murphy are seen beyond.
KELLO: ( with a guffaw ) Come back here, Sidney.I wanna chastise you!.
STEVE: He responds to the ovation, nicely but a little wearily. He gets down off the stand. There is too much noise to hear his parting words to his fellow musicians, but it is clear that he is urging them to stay without him. He walks off towards the entrance to the club.
D'ANGELO: D'Angelo leaves the bar, in search of Steve. He sees.
REVERSE ANGLE: Shooting into the club. D'Angelo comes forward from the bar. He is a little drunk, a little emotional. He waddles toward Steve, then takes the white carnation out of his buttonhole and puts it in the buttonhole of Steve's coat, saying:
D'ANGELO: ( fondly ) Press this in your friendship book.Love is a crooked thing, friendship not. ( then, sheepishly ) You see, it comes out in the wash of a few drinks I'm a very sentimental guy.
STEVE: I like it that way, Frank.don't
KELLO: CLOSER ANGLE downward from Sidney's viewpoint. Kello turns deliberately to look at the bridge above.
RESUME BRIDGE: Sidney sees Kello's look; he nods deliberately. Below him we see Kello and Murphy move swiftly to get into the car. Sidney, as if shrinking from a sight from which he doesn't wish to witness, draws back from the balustrade. He turns and begins to walk towards CAMERA.
POLICE CAR: A LOW ANGLE SHOOTING upwards at the car, the stairs to the bridge in background. As the doors of the car slam, it starts to move forward and, abruptly, its headlamps are switched on, glaring into the lens.
REVERSE ANGLE: CAMERA SHOOTS toward 2nd Avenue. The Police Car slows down again at the curb and Murph gets out of it, turning to face Steve, seeing the man ahead of him, notes something slightly menacing in his manner and slows down in his walk. Then, instinctively, he realizes that there is a second man behind him, turns to look at Kello. Kello approaches.
RESUME: Steve, seeing the man ahead of him, notes something slightly menacing in his manner and slows down in his walk. Then, instinctively, he realizes that there is a second man behind him, turns to look at Kello. Kello approaches.
KELLO: Hey, fella.!
SIDNEY: A bunch of nickels, mister!
SIDNEY: A double Johnny Walker Black. Or whatever you got. Scotch.
SIDNEY: He reaches for his drink, downs it. He is shivering.
BOUNCER: Hey, Robard, somebody just picked up one of your boys.
ROBARD: What sa Wha
REVERSE ANGLE: D'Angelo's face shows a bewildered astonishment and dismay as he turns back to the couple of people who are talking to Robard. D'Angelo is a little befuddled with drink. He pushes towards Robard.
D'ANGELO: ( dazed ) Whatsa matter, Lou?
ROBARD: ( turning to D'Angelo ) I'm trying to find out myself. They just picked up Steve.
LOITERER: ( blankly ) Some fat guy.
2ND LOITERER: A cop, a couple of cops.
LOITERER: They smeared him all over the lot.
D'ANGELO: He turns to look back towards the direction in which the Police Car has departed. He seems unable to comprehend what he has heard; but a slow and terrible fear is dawning on Susan opens the door to discover Frank D'Angelo in lobby. He speaks at once:
D'ANGELO: I'm looking for your brother. Is he home?
SUSAN: ( sensing the seriousness of his manner ) Mr. D'Angelo - is something wrong?
D'ANGELO: When does he usually gets in, your night-owl brother?
SUSAN: Seldom before five. What's the matter? Would you care to come in a minute?
D'ANGELO: No.no. Thanks.
SUSAN: ( taut ) Something's happened. To Steve.
D'ANGELO: ( in a broken voice ) He's in the hospital.He's under arrest, too. They planted reefer cigarettes on him.in his overcoat
SUSAN: ( wildly ) Where is he.I want to go to him.
D'ANGELO: Miss Hunsecker, if you see him again they might.might kill him.
SUSAN: ( slowly ) Who is "they"?
D'ANGELO: Don't ask foolish questions. Tell your brother I'm a sensible man. He understands only two things - power-politics and homage - tell him I came tonight to pay
LONGER ANGLE: The apartment appears empty. Only one light is lit; the place is eerie.
RESUME SIDNEY: Sidney closes the door, goes into the main living room, CAMERA pans with him. Something chills him, he calls softly, "J.J.?"
ANOTHER ANGLE: Sidney walks towards the study, there is nobody there either. He goes back towards the stairs to the upper floor; in doing so he repasses the door of Susan's bedroom, sees that it is half open, goes to look in.
SIDNEY: He looks at the empty room, disturbed.
RESUME BEDROOM: The curtains of the window onto the terrace are blowing: the window is open. Sidney walks into shot form behind CAMERA. He calls:
SIDNEY: Susan steps into the room from the terrace, confronting Sidney. She is dressed, wearing the fur coat over a skirt and blouse. Her manner is very strange; the effect of the drugs, no doubt.
RESUME SIDNEY: Sidney is very uncomfortable in her presence; Susan is the last person he wants to have conversation with.
SIDNEY: Where's J.J.?
SUSAN: He isn't here.
SIDNEY: But he called and said.
SUSAN: No, I called.
LONGER ANGLE: She walks listlessly across the room, moving like a
SUSAN: Mr. D'Angelo phoned about Steve.I went down to the hospital, but they wouldn't let me in. He promised to keep in touch with me - Mr. D'Angelo, I mean.
RESUME SIDNEY: He watches her cautiously, not sure of how to deal with her.
SIDNEY: ( carefully ) It's all over town about Dallas. ( moving towards her ) How is he?
SUSAN: A CLOSE UP. Susan's expression is blank; her eyes are There is a tone of great despair in her voice. Presently, she recovers, CAMERA eases back to include Sidney beyond. She glances at him.
SUSAN: There is a tone of great despair in her voice. Presently, she recovers, CAMERA eases back to include Sidney beyond. She glances at him.
SUSAN: I.I gave Steve up. Why did you and J.J. do it?
RESUME SIDNEY: Sidney looks at her, tensely. Her voice is so calm, so certain that Sidney finds it difficult to play-act innocence. He protests a little too loudly:
SIDNEY: Susie, if I get your meaning, you're pitching very wild balls. What -
SUSAN: Don't bother to lie, Sidney. I don't care anymore.
LONGER ANGLE: Sidney decides that it is wiser not to argue. He assumes a tolerant sympathy. He moves towards her.
SIDNEY: Listen, get a good night's sleep - tomorrow's another day. Feeling sorry for yourself won't help.
SUSAN: ( shaking her head ) I'm sorry about Steve, not myself. I'm even sorry for my brother. To be so lonely, without one real friend in the world - to have to hang on to a worthless rag of a girl like me because she's his only real family -
SIDNEY: ( moving towards her again ) Come on now, chickie, why don't you go to bed.?
SUSAN: And I'm sorry for you, too, Sidney. You're going down with the ship.
SIDNEY: What ship?
SUSAN: THIS ship.
SUSAN: Don't you know how my brother will see you after tonight? You'll be the man who drove his little stainless sister to suicide.
REVERSE ANGLE: Shaken, Sidney decides to ridicule the implied threat.
SIDNEY: Honey, I'll just have to smile at
RESUME SUSAN: Sidney walks into shot, going past her on his way to the door.
SIDNEY: ( as he goes ) It's late and I'm going home.
SIDNEY: He can't go. Probably, she's bluffing. But he can't be certain. He is suddenly angry.
SIDNEY: Susie, whatever problems you have with J.J. - I didn't invent them! What're you blaming me for? If you learned to let out your hatred you would be better off!
SUSAN: Like you?
SIDNEY: Yeah! Like me! I don't choke on my own gall - I fight back! Let THEM choke, not me!
SUSAN: I'm not a man, Sidney, I'm -
SIDNEY: I know that bit - you're a girl; you need a man to give you strength! So what do you pick such weak sisters for? Don't you know yet that you fight fire with fire, not with tear drops?
SUSAN: I could almost forgive you if what you did to Steve came from jealousy and love.
SIDNEY: ( quickly ) I didn't do anything!
SUSAN: .but you did it for greed, Sidney - and that's pathetic.
SIDNEY: Don't run away - I was always the man for you! I'm talking to you out of two years of silence - listen to what I say! Inside of six months -
SUSAN: ( helplessly ) Please, Sidney, I can't stand this -
HUNSECKER: He is taking off his overcoat near the door of the apartment. We don't know how long he has been there, how much he has overheard. Without appearing to be consciously spying, Hunsecker is listening to Sidney's voice over scene.
SIDNEY: ( over scene ) Listen to me, lunatic! All your life you've been doing penance for crimes you never committed! I could change that, I'd teach you, I'd show you - !
HUNSECKER: Go to bed, Susie. It's late.
HUNSECKER: ( to Susan ) What is he doing here?
SUSAN: I called him.
SIDNEY: ( carefully ) She was depressed - she heard about
HUNSECKER: ( "controlling" his feelings ) That subject it might be better not to start me on. ( angry ) He's made all the papers tonight.
SUSAN: She is staring at her brother. Suddenly, she is unable to suffer his authoritative air; she goes to him; he ignores HUNSECKER AND SUSAN Childishly, she snatches the paper from his hand, throws it to the floor. He looks at her. Patiently, as with a hysterical infant, he stoops, recovers the paper.
HUNSECKER: ( "mildly" ) Is there something you wanted to ( as she does not answer, continuing with growing viciousness ) I've put up with a lot of your guff, Susie, because you were a child. But you're a woman now and I suspect, despite my best intentions, more than a bit of a
SUSAN: Her head comes up sharply at the insult.
SIDNEY: ( quickly ) J.J., if you think -
SUSAN: ( cutting in ) Don't explain, Sidney. It doesn't matter now.
HUNSECKER: ( continuing ) Whose arms will I have to pry you out of next? Not that I don't think you didn't invite it! I know that look of yours, that pose of being wronged - and how it arouses the crusading instinct in even a Sidney Falco -
SIDNEY: I was trying to build her up, not tear her down -
HUNSECKER: ( viciously ) Is that why you were romancing her, you mutt! ( turning back to Susan ) Let's call it quits, my dear. I'd like it fine if you found another home. That means the front door is open! Pack your things, rent a moving van and GIT! ( pacing the room ) And as for marriage, let me hit you with a few choice facts: you aren't ready for marriage! You're incompetent - a capricious and shaky frail with a sick fatality for frail and useless men!
HUNSECKER: ( to himself ) Another crisis past. ( walking away ) She'll be fast asleep in five minutes, loaded with those headache
SIDNEY: Sidney seems not to hear this remark. He is concentrated on the door; he moves hesitantly towards it, apprehensive. CAMERA includes Hunsecker in background.
HUNSECKER: Now we'll get to you, Sidney. As far as the column is concerned - tonight you have forfeited every ethical consideration I ever felt for you. Look, J.J., I'll grant you anything you want. Susie's off her rocker tonight! Go in and see what she's doing! Go in and talk to her quietly - unless you want a corpse!
SIDNEY: ( cutting in ) Look, J.J., I'll grant you anything you want. ( as Hunsecker is about to interrupt ) Susie's off her rocker tonight! Go in and see what she's doing! Go in and talk to her quietly - unless you want a corpse!
HUNSECKER: ( acid ) Let me finish what I started to say -
SUSAN: A CLOSE UP. Susan rises to her feet, staring at the door. She begins to back away from it.
HUNSECKER: Hunsecker has come forward. But now, as he listens to the gramaphone record playing in the bedroom, Hunsecker relaxes, assuming that this is a sign that Sidney's suspicions are CAMERA TRACKS to include Sidney. He does not share Hunsecker's confidence; he knocks again, calling:
HUNSECKER: ( coming forward ) What a cornball you are, Sidney.
SIDNEY: ( anxiously ) ( in growing fear )
SUSIE!: CAMERA TRACKS closer to Sidney. As he tries the doorknob, CAMERA TILTS DOWN. Sidney's hand tries the doorknob, finds it locked, shakes it forcefully.
DETAIL: From inside the bedroom. We see the doorknob rattled.
RESUME SUSAN: A CLOSE UP. She realizes that Sidney means to insist. She turns away towards the blowing curtains in background.
HUNSECKER: ( with authority ) Susie, this is J.J.! Open up!
SUSAN: A CLOSE UP. She comes forward past the blowing curtains. The wind whips at her hair. Over scene we hear the rumble of the traffic on Broadway far below.
RESUME HUNSECKER: He is pounding on the door again. CAMERA makes a quick pan to Sidney who, in a split second, realizes that Susan may have gone out on the balcony. He turns, dashes towards the study to look out on the terrace.
RESUME SUSAN: She has now started to climb onto the parapet. Sidney leaps into shot, dragging her bodily off the parapet and out of shot. We hear Susan cry out, a hysterical gasp. CAMERA, looking through the windows of Susan's bedroom, sees the door fly open as Hunsecker bursts into the room. He looks swiftly around, advances towards the open window. Exasperated by the sound of the gramaphone, he switches it off; he steps out onto the terrace. CAMERA PANS with him as he turns to look back into the study where Susan's inanimate figure is sprawled on the floor, half across the low upholstered footstool. Sidney, white and shaking, is standing over her.
REVERSE ANGLE: CAMERA at floor level. Susan is framed in foreground. The lower half of Sidney can be seen beside her. Hunsecker is on the terrace in background. Shocked, he moves quickly into the room.
HUNSECKER: A CLOSE UP. He looks down at his sister. He is badly shaken. The sharp bite of terror produces a reaction of something akin to anger. But he swiftly controls it. He moves past CAMERA.
REVERSE ANGLE: Hunsecker stoops into shot. Tenderly, he lifts the girl's body to get it into the arm chair. Susan is quite lifeless, limp with the dead weight of a creature that has lost any instinct for self-preservation. But as she feels her brother's arms, and as she recognizes who it is, she breaks out in hysteria.
SUSAN: ( wildly ) No! NO! Don't touch me!
HUNSECKER: ( sharply )
SUSAN: ( her body shaking ) Go away!.Go away!.
SUSAN: ( sobbing bitterly )
GO AWAY!: Hunsecker sets down the drink, stands up.
HUNSECKER: ( in a choked voice ) Talk to her, Sidney.
SIDNEY: ( hushed ) Talk to her yourself.
SUSAN: A CLOSE UP. It is she who first becomes aware of the telephone. Her weeping has stopped now. Slowly, she raises her head. CAMERA EASES BACK to include Sidney beyond her; he notes this movement, seeing in it a revival of the girl's will to live; he is moved.
ANOTHER ANGLE: The telephone is framed in foreground, Susan beyond. It continues to ring. As Hunsecker crosses to his desk to pick up the instrument, CAMERA PULLS BACK. Hunsecker speaks:
HUNSECKER: ( he listens ) Just a minute. ( turning back to Susan ) Susie, it's Mr. D'Angelo - from the
RESUME SUSAN: A CLOSE SHOT. She raises her head higher, still weakly. We see in her face a mixture of terror and hope.
REVERSE ANGLE: Hunsecker comes forward to set down the telephone in front of her, on the footstool. Hunsecker and Sidney watch. She reaches a hand, which is still trembling, picks up the receiver. Her voice as she speaks to the instrument is barely audible.
SUSAN: Presently, she hangs up. When she becomes aware that Hunsecker and Sidney are waiting for an explanation, she tells them:
SUSAN: ( speaking with difficulty ) Steve.is out of danger.
HUNSECKER: Hunsecker nods. He already knows this. Then:
HUNSECKER: ( soberly ) That means a lot to you?
SUSAN: She does not look at him, she lowers her eyes but answers with a nod. And then, more positively:
SUSAN: RESUME HUNSECKER He studies the girl. His face has hardened. He moves, beginning to pace. ( And also beginning his 'manipulations'. )
RESUME HUNSECKER: He studies the girl. His face has hardened. He moves, beginning to pace. ( And also beginning his 'manipulations'. )
HUNSECKER: But I have to warn you, Susie - for your own sake - he'll still do
HUNSECKER: ( continuing, warming to his theme ) He's a hop-head - that's a felony in New York. I can try, of course,
SIDNEY: A CLOSE UP. Revolted, Sidney breaks in:
SIDNEY: You're unholy, J.J.! You'd rather kill this girl than let her go!
GROUP SHOT: Hunsecker wheels on Sidney, bellowing:
HUNSECKER: ( in blind rage )
SIDNEY: ( impulsively ) Susie, YOU get out of this house! - Get out before it's too late!
SIDNEY: Sidney has gone too far now to pull back. Inevitably, he continues. During the speech, CAMERA PULLS BACK to include Susan and then Hunsecker.
SIDNEY: ( with sincerity ) Listen with care - this will cost me everything, so you know I'm telling you the truth!
HUNSECKER: ( trying to stop him ) You're incapable of the truth.
SIDNEY: ( who will not by stopped ) Susie, there's nothing wrong with ( turning toward Hunsecker ) Your brother and I arranged it all. And if the Leslie boy is still a squooshy item in your life, forget it! - your brother arranged that one, too! I don't usually give away presents; but this is my gift to you: Get out of here! Leave this man!
HUNSECKER: He is perfectly controlled, smiling.
HUNSECKER: Like most Italians, Sidney's got a big gift for dramatics. I, however, prefer the cool and stubborn facts. Sidney has not appeared in my column in weeks - check that fact with Mary. That leads right to another fact: Sidney had nothing to lose tonight! To the contrary, dear - ONLY HIS OBVIOUS GREED TO
GROUP SHOT: Framing Hunsecker in foreground, Susan and Sidney beyond. Susan listens to Hunsecker objectively, with a mounting sense of his diseased reasoning.
HUNSECKER: ( continuing ) Mind you, not that one true fact didn't come out of Sidney's mouth tonight: self-admittedly, he committed a vicious crime of jealousy against Steve Dallas! ( pausing ) Now we have to clear Dallas, don't we?.But I'll have to sacrifice ( he indicates Sidney ) .to do it. ( turning to Susan ) Am I doing right?
SUSAN: She is looking at Hunsecker.
REVERSE ANGLE: SHOOTING ACROSS Susan onto Hunsecker. Hunsecker turns away from her and walks to the telephone. He picks it up and begins to speak. While the scene continues, we hear his voice off screen, speaking to the phone, saying: "This is J.J. Hunsecker. I want you to get a message through to Lieutenant Kello. Ask him to ring me back. It's urgent." Susan backs slowly away from Hunsecker. Then she turns into CAMERA, which TRACKS with her and includes Sidney. Susan looks at Sidney and then, ashamed, avoids his eye. But Sidney comes nearer to her. Susan is deeply distressed.
SUSAN: ( very quietly ) He's sick.
SIDNEY: ( quietly ) Yes, he's sick and you're the only idiot alive who didn't know it.
SIDNEY: But what are you going to do?
SIDNEY: ( with emphasis ) You don't owe your brother a cup of
SIDNEY: What are you going to do?
SUSAN: Go to Steve.
SIDNEY: Sidney is moved, having done his solitary act of chivalry. To hide his feelings, he is harsh:
SIDNEY: ( sharply ) For Pete's sake, straighten out the seams of your stockings - comb your hair - don't be so helpless all the
HUNSECKER: ( to phone ) No, he's admitted that, Harry. My kid sister's a witness.
SIDNEY: A CLOSE SHOT. He watches Hunsecker with a curious detachment. Producing a cigarette, he lights it and then looks up towards Hunsecker.
HUNSECKER: RESUME HUNSECKER AND SIDNEY Sidney turns on his heel, walking out of the apartment.
HUNSECKER: ( continuing ) .He's been trying to make my sister behind my back.
KELLO: ( to phone ) Oh, that's serious, J.J. Real
KELLO: ( to phone ) Don't worry, I'll get there. I'm on Broadway now.
SUSAN: Unaware that her brother is watching her, she picks up the fur coat on the bed. ( She is about to start packing her belongings. ) She turns as she hears Hunsecker speak.
HUNSECKER: ( over scene ) That's a pretty coat.
REVERSE ANGLE: SHOOTING ACROSS Susan, towards Hunsecker. Hunsecker comes into the room.
HUNSECKER: ( continuing ) - but it's about time you had a new
RESUME SUSAN: She braces herself to tell him:
SUSAN: ( soberly ) I'm leaving, J.J.
HUNSECKER: ( with a faint scoff ) Don't kid a kidder. I'll see you for breakfast around eleven.
TERRACE: Hunsecker opens the windows onto the terrace, comes out and looks over the parapet, ( looking to see how far Sidney has got, hoping to see Kello's squad car. )
RESUME SUSAN: She completes her simple packing, closing the suitcase. With a gesture that is obviously automatic, she starts to put on the fur coat; then she halts, realizing what she is doing. She pauses; CAMERA MOVES CLOSER. Now, deliberately she throws the coat back on the bed. CAMERA PANS down with the gesture. She looks down at the coat, the discarded symbol of her dependence upon her brother. CAMERA PULLS BACK again as she takes a quick look round, then goes to take a duffle coat from the wardrobe. She throws this over her arm, picks up the suitcase, goes to the door.
HUNSECKER: From Susan's viewpoint, SHOOTING through the big glass windows. Hunsecker is at the parapet. He is impatiently looking down into Broadway.
SUSAN: A CLOSE UP. She now realizes that there is no point in saying goodbye to him: she has already told him that she is leaving and, if she becomes involved in further argument with him, it can do no good. Yet there is some emotion on her face as she takes a last look at her brother; she turns Framing him in foreground at the parapet. Susan can be seen through the windows before she disappears to the door. Hunsecker reacts as he catches sight of a vehicle on Broadway EXT. BROADWAY The squad car comes down Broadway at speed.
HUNSECKER: Framing him in foreground at the parapet. Susan can be seen through the windows before she disappears to the door. Hunsecker reacts as he catches sight of a vehicle on Broadway EXT. BROADWAY The squad car comes down Broadway at speed.
SIDNEY: Sidney comes up towards CAMERA. Seeing something ahead, he SQUAD CAR From Sidney's viewpoint. The car breaks to a stop. It's door opens and a detective gets out slowly. It is Phil.
SQUAD CAR: From Sidney's viewpoint. The car breaks to a stop. It's door opens and a detective gets out slowly. It is Phil.
RESUME SIDNEY: Sidney is framed in foreground, the squad car beyond. Sidney knows what this means. He starts to speak before he turns to look over his shoulder.
SIDNEY: Hello, Harry.
REVERSE ANGLE: Kello, moving silently up behind Sidney, slows down, amused at Sidney's prescience.
KELLO: ( coming to join Sidney ) I just been on the phone to J.J.
KELLO: ( mildly ) You been a bad boy, Sidney. J.J.'s going to write about you in his column tomorrow.
REVERSE ANGLE: SHOOTING ACROSS Kello onto Sidney. Sidney's smile is tired.
SIDNEY: I thought he would.
KELLO: ( then ) And another thing - he's gonna say you 'resisted arrest'. ( as Sidney nods ) You know J.J..!
KELLO: Kello's head jerks back. Recovering at once, he guffaws, lurches into CAMERA with a sudden vicious movement. There is a sharp guttural cry over scene.
LONGER ANGLE: Phil runs forward towards the figures of Sidney and Kello seen beyond him. In doing so, he blocks the view so that we do not clearly see the violence with which Kello strikes Sidney down. Phil, in foreground, is seen to relax. When he moves aside, clearing the view, Sidney is writhing on the ground at Kello's feet.
CLOSER ANGLE: Kello wipes his knuckles on his handkerchief. He signals to Phil to help lift the body at his feet. Phil enters shot and they raise Sidney, half carrying, half dragging him out of shot.
LONG SHOT: The cops carry the figure of Sidney Falco across Duffy Square; they bundle him into the police car. The pigeons in the square, circle.
HUNSECKER'S TERRACE: CAMERA LOOKS down towards Duffy Square in the distance. The police car can be seen moving off, circling the square and disappearing southward on Broadway. CAMERA PULLS BACK to include Hunsecker in foreground.
HUNSECKER: A CLOSE SHOT, SHOOTING sharply upward at Hunsecker. He looks down, quiet impassively, and there is a slightly insane grandeur, a paranoiac superiority in the way that he turns back, dismissing Sidney from his thoughts.
HUNSECKER: ( gently ) ( getting no answer ) Are you in bed.?
HUNSECKER: ( continuing ) I don't have to tell you, of course, that I cleared your boyfriend's name; I didn't let you
HUNSECKER: A CLOSE SHOT, REVERSE ANGLE. We now see in his face a flicker of fear. With what is clearly an effort, he reassumes a confident manner.
HUNSECKER: .I was saving this news for breakfast, but I think I'll jump the gun! I'M GONNA GIVE YOU AND
HUNSECKER: INT. BEDROOM The room is quite empty. CAMERA SHOOTS across the bed towards the door in background. Susan's discarded fur coat lies on the bed. And the doors of the wardrobe are open. Hunsecker's voice can be heard continuing over scene:
HUNSECKER: A BIG CLOSE UP. The sight of the empty room freezes his face for a moment. His eyes look round.
REVERSE ANGLE: There is a dazed, incredulous look on his face. But, as he glances over his shoulder, CAMERA ZOOMS PAST him towards a little door in the wall behind him: It is ajar, showing a couple of inches of light.
RESUME HUNSECKER: Once again Hunsecker reassures himself that Susan must be behind the door. But his voice is even more false as he CAMERA NOW MOVES CLOSER and closer to Hunsecker. The ANGLE is a weird one, tilting grotesquely upward.
HUNSECKER: ( a note of anger appearing in his voice ) Susie!.You won't threaten me!.Nobody walks out on J.J.
HUNSECKER: ( continuing ) You need me - you all need me!.
HUNSECKER: ( continuing ) .I don't ask them to get on their knees, but they come to me for advice and guidance! Who are you to reject me!
HUNSECKER: ( continuing ) What makes YOU fit to sit in judgment on a man like me. Only a great person understands another great person, and that leaves you
HUNSECKER: ( continuing ) - That leaves you ALL out! You're pigmies! You're all sick, weak midgets! I'm proud to be alone!.
CLOSER ANGLE: Susan pauses on the sidewalk. She stays there for a moment. She breathes in the fresh morning air, looking around with the expression of someone who sees the world with new eyes. Then she starts up Broadway - away from the Times Square area. The girl's step has a purpose in it; she has confidence and courage. Music for the end titles is quiet, simple and lyrical.
