SYRIANA: Written by Stephen Gaghan Robert Baer
VICTOR HUGO: If a triangle could speak it would say that God is eminently triangular.
SPINOZA: FADE IN:
ARASH AMIRI: Have you ever tried liquid MDMA? Bob's forehead is sweating and his hair is sticking to it, which he wipes away as he sips his scotch.
BOB: Liquid MDMA? No, I never tried it. The music is louder. Arash proudly shouts over it
ARASH AMIRI: Tehran is the world capital!
BOB: Great. He's great. Arash just stares. Bob sips his drink.
ABASH AMIRI: After prayer
BOB: You said they were both for you. Arash tosses an envelope at Bob
ARASH AMIRI: What do you care? Bob glances in the envelope. Behind him, the Amiris are picking up the other case. Bob moves toward the curtain. IN THE BACK OF THE SHOP Bob's eyes adjust. Several robed shapes, ghosts in grey light, carry the case out a door. The BARREL OF A GUN touches the side of Bob's head. The SOUND of a SHELL CHAMBERED and a MOUTH BREATHER. Bob raises his hands. The barrel slides around to his forehead and Bob is staring into the blue eyes of MOHAMMED SHEIK AGIZA, 40's, bearded, and calm.
MARGARET: If you go back you get promoted. Which could open doors later. For Those people back there don't know what's going on. They don't wanna Have you thought about college? Has that made it onto the radar And it's not like anybody else could roll in here. It's not like it's just reading reports.
BOB: Those people back there don't know what's going on. They don't wanna Have you thought about college? Has that made it onto the radar And it's not like anybody else could roll in here. It's not like it's just reading reports.
MARGARET: Have you thought about college? Has that made it onto the radar And it's not like anybody else could roll in here. It's not like it's just reading reports.
BOB: And it's not like anybody else could roll in here. It's not like it's just reading reports.
MARGARET: I took Pakistan because of the hardship pay. The private school
TUITION: ( CONTINUED ) 8 CONTINUED: 8
BOB: Well, then here we are.
MARGARET: Here we are. In the street it's turning into a full-blown protest.
BOB: Let's say, somehow, I get a Branch or even a Group, then what? Will you come? Will you bring Robby? Now, Margaret looks away. A STUDENT-LEADER is up on a platform brandishing a Coke bottle, SHOUTING in Farsi into a bullhorn.
MARGARET: What's he saying?
BOB: He's against the ban on Coca-Cola. He says you have to fix your soul, which is not something you can put on a soft-drink. We see the faces of the protesters, silently staring, their mouths covered by black tape.
BRYAN: . An evolutionarily perfect machine for the spreading of imported Cheerios to all corners of the kitchen. The toddler smiles at him. Julie puts four plates down. They both notice the empty place setting. Just then, a golden boy, MAX, 6, enters the kitchen.
MAX: Mommy, I want bacon.
JULIE: You have bacon. Max sits at the table.
MAX: I want real bacon.
JULIE: You have real bacon, only it's made from soy beans. Max looks at his plate.
MAX: I want pig bacon.
BRYAN: Our position is that there is at least twelve dollars of instability premium in the market. Protests in Iran. Threat of more strikes in Venezuela. The Turks still making noise about Russian crude through the Bosphorus.
VINCENT: Bryan waves him off, keeps walking.
HEY: Bryan waves him off, keeps walking.
BOSS: The Emir's summer party. In Marbella. Any interest?
BRYAN: ( re: his piled desk ) I can't. I've got all this
BOSS: I'm not really asking.
BRYAN: It's Max's birthday. We've got stuff all weekend. Vincent sticks his head in the door
VINCENT: September T-I ticked up fifteen cents and is rebounding. Where's the next resistance level?
BRYAN: Read my report
VINCENT: ( noticing the invite ) The Emir's party; I'll take that. Vincent tries to snatch the invite.
BOSS: Through much finagling we have an audience with the Emir. He wrote the strategy and he's not slick.
BENNETT: Are you a director or executive of this company? The leader gnaws on a bone. Bennett points down to a mess of contracts and legal papers in front of him.
UNDERLING: He says, we eat every part of the Ask him if he's been receiving faxes'at this number? Ask him if this is his phone number? ( to the leader ) Is this a number to reach you? Again, the leader speaks in rapid Russian.
BENNETT: Ask him if he's been receiving faxes'at this number? Ask him if this is his phone number? ( to the leader ) Is this a number to reach you? Again, the leader speaks in rapid Russian.
UNDERLING: He says, the weather in Siberia is very cold!
BENNETT: I'm asking you about this payment. Who is this person on the account? Bennett notices a Russian, OSKAR WERNER-TYPE, wearing THICK-FRAMED GLASSES, smoking and staring at him. Another RUSSIAN glances at the paperwork.
UNDERLING: Bank is no more.
BENNETT: I know bank is no more. I'm trying to find out where the assets went. The Russians nod to the MUSIC coming from the poles. Now the leader speaks in surprisingly good English.
LEADER: This is marching music composed for Stalin. Inspiring for workers. The leader smiles at Bennett. It's a scary smile. The THICK-FRAMED GLASSES GUY is still staring.
PROBLEM: JAMES "JIMMY" POPE, 50's, a powerful presence leavened by Connecticut minor chords, speaks from the far end where an opposing faction is labeled: KILLEEN.
JIMMY: Is the Caspian a lake or a sea, That's an important legal point
TOMMY: That's an important legal point
JIMMY: Oh give me another lecture on subsurface rights, Thomas. Jimmy stands. He is imposing in a Lyndon Johnson visits Congress sort of way.
TOMMY: That's enough, Jimmy.
JIMMY: No, I want to talk about The Gulf and how a goddamn E-mir, what is an E-mir anyway
TOMMY: King. It's a king
JIMMY: How some podunk King tossed you out on your ass. Jimmy pulls out a sharpie, walks to the Resource Map and defaces it, drawing the outline of an actual country, Kazakhstan, in Central Asia, home of the Tengiz Field.
TOMMY: Thank you, Jimmy. You know how much we appreciate hearing your point of view; however, Mr. Janus and I have asked Connex's Washington counsel, Sydney Hewitt, to come down here and talk about strategy for the next thirty days. The eyes all shift to SYDNEY HEWITT,. 60's, Alabama smooth accent and ever-so-certain.
SYDNEY: In a way I feel like Switzerland and I'd like to remind everyone in this room that they've signed confidentiality agreements. Polite LAUGHTER.
SYDNEY: You just visited what someday soon could be the most profitable corporation in America.
BENNETT: Provided the government approves the merger
SYDNEY: Provided we don't start running cars on water. Provided there's still chaos in the Middle-East.
BENNETT: I know him. He taught a class of mine at Georgetown Law. Sydney knew this, of course. Sydney looks Bennett over, then he chuckles, the effect of which is unsettling.
SYDNEY: Well, there you go, he taught a class of yours at Georgetown Law. Mr. .Whiting did say to me, I have a feeling about this young man. He said, he can position himself. Sydney stands.
WASIM: They're letting us go.
SALEEM: The whole group?
WASIM: The whole group. In the distance, the engineer is droning on.
ENGINEER: We know you have worked hard and wish to thank you for that hard work with a small cash bonus which you may collect on your way out of the facility.
SALEEM: What did he say? I can't hear. I can't hear.
WASIM: He's telling us to scram.
SALEEM: Scram? What do you mean, scram? ANGLE ON: The engineer pointing toward the exit of the facility. He turns to another ENGINEER nearby.
CHINESE ENGINEER: ( SOTTO )
SALEEM: The Chinese are smart people, but such bad drivers. They should not be allowed even to wash cars. Wasim doesn't say anything. They walk in silence. Then
SALEEM: That's right. Three hours away, but right there, white across the sky, like you could reach out and touch them. Snow covered Ahead is transient worker housing. Wasim takes in plywood fencing surrounding identical huts.
FAROOQ: Ow, ow, ow, ahhh He throws up. The KIDS laugh. He comes up composed
WASIM: I'm afraid of your breath. Wasim points at a silent kid hanging back from the group.
FAROOQ: He thinks that little bracelet's gonna get him girls.
WASIM: ( to another kid ) What's wrong with your brother, Hakim looks to his brother, then lifts up his shirt. There is a recent scar where a kidney would be.
FAROOQ: You can drink with one. You don't need two.
GROUP: HAKIM, HAKIM, HAKIM. Hakim isn't sure.
WASIM: ( TO FAROOQ )
GROUP: HAKIM, HAKIM, HAKIM. Farooq. You have to introduce me.
WASIM: Farooq. You have to introduce me.
FAROOQ: There isn't any work. Quit pestering me. Hakim, Hakim Finally, Hakim sips and holds his side. The boys' cheers are thin and vulnerable in the immense desert. In the distance a luxury car is parked. And U.S. Military
CONTINUES: .I just finished convincing the. Brits and French Intel we had nothing to do with the Amiri job. Now what do we say: remember that thing we had nothing to do with, well, there's something missing. The Division Chief finishes listening patiently.
FRANKS: .I just finished convincing the. Brits and French Intel we had nothing to do with the Amiri job. Now what do we say: remember that thing we had nothing to do with, well, there's something missing. The Division Chief finishes listening patiently.
DIVISION CHIEF: Okay, here's something. Put him up for a promotion. Bob's a good guy. He saved our ass in Beirut in '85.
FRANKS: ( BEAT )
DOWNTOWN: Bob exits into downtown D.C, the traffic lightening. He goes through a tunnel.
FRANKS: Bob's a hero. They'll give him something good. He is an Iran Fred, Bob's never had a desk job, never done nine-to-five. Can he show up to work everyday? Can he stay on message?
DIVISION CHIEF: Fred, Bob's never had a desk job, never done nine-to-five. Can he show up to work everyday? Can he stay on message?
FRANKS: Yes, absolutely. I'll prep him.
TERRY GEORGE: I need data supporting known facts. Because what I know is that in the entire region when we even whisper our support, those people are delegitimized. TERRY GEORGE, 40's, Deputy CIA Chief, quite a good guy to those in power, speaks to a DISTINGUISHED GENTLEMAN, 60's. Through the partially open door, one third of Bob is visible.
DISTINGUISHED GENTLEMAN: Iraq had no established ethnic It's like trying to organize Louisiana. Iran, on the other hand, is Persian The Deputy National Security Advisor, MARILYN RICHARDS, 40's, sculpted hair, with the soul of a seventy year-old white, Republican male, is in charge
MARILYN: There has been some good news concerning Iran lately. Right, For Iran, yes
TERRY GEORGE: For Iran, yes
MARILYN: The President is very interested in Iran, Terry. Marilyn takes in the presence of the DISTINGUISHED GENTLEMEN sitting near her. Terry slides a file across the table to her.
TERRY GEORGE: I know that, Marilyn. In fact, we just pulled one of our officers out and I took the initiative to ask him to come down here. He infiltrated Hezbollah in Beirut in the eighties, won himself some nice medals. We're thinking about giving him a station.
MARILYN: Beirut in the eighties, is that a resume builder? Polite chuckles follow Terry George to the doorway.
TERRY GEORGE: Don't chomp down on any bait. He looms over Bob, pointedly taps Bob's files
BOB: And our analysis seems to be on the mark. And we're getting good satellite coverage. Bob is clearly working from a script. Terry George is pleased and gives Bob the slightest of approving nods.
MARILYN: Thank you for coming over, Mr. Baer. Welcome back and forgive me if I wade right in, but forgetting for a second your bureaucratic checklist, I'm trying to get undigested information, so if you could give me a reading of the temperature over there? Bob glances at Terry. Exasperated, Marilyn continues.
BOB: It's possible. It's complicated.
MARILYN: Of course it is, Mr. Baer. Thank you for your time. Bob looks to Terry who nods. Bob starts to leave.
BOB: They let young people march in the street and then the next day shut down fifty newspapers. They have a few satellite dishes up on roofs, let 'em have My Two Dads, but that doesn't mean the Ayatollahs have relinquished one iota of control over that nation. The steno guys hands are frozen.
DISTINGUISHED GENTLEMAN: Mr. Baer, the reform movement in Iran is one of the President's great hopes for the region and crucial to the petroleum security of the United States.
TERRY GEORGE: ( A WARNING )
DISTINGUISHED GENTLEMAN: The Committee for the Liberation of Iran, Mr. Baer.
BOB: We've had Iran in embargo for almost thirty years, we backed their neighbor, a neighbor we invaded twice, in a ten year war against them, we're hanging on by a thread with a massive occupation force, so I got news for you. Thomas Jefferson just ain't that popular over there right now. Silence except for the steno guys clicking away, then complete silence. Terry George stares at Bob a long beat.
TERRY GEORGE: That will be all, Mr. Baer.
DANNY DALTON: Last election cycle I spent three hundred thousand. I got pictures of myself with the President that I use all over the world. People don't know Danny Dalton, but they know the President of the United States and they see that I know the President of the United Bennett has showered and changed. He makes coffee. The man sits at a dinette. He lights a cigarette.
BENNETT: I'm not making this coffee for you. I'm making it for me. You I'm making oatmeal and then you sleep.
BENNETT SENIOR: You look like shit.
BENNETT: Are you working?
BENNETT SENIOR: I had a little trouble at work. Bennett grabs his travel coffee and starts away
BENNETT: There's some beer in the fridge for after you wake up, so you don't die on my floor of the DT's. And no smoking in my house. Bennett leaves the kitchen. The man yells after him.
BENNETT SENIOR: I don't need your goddamn The front door SLAMS. The man glances up at a photo of Bennett Jr. at his Howard University graduation. And next to it, the man, BENNETT SR., graduating 25 years earlier. ON TV: old, white senators listening judiciously.
BRYAN: .I'm probably the tenth guy this month to pitch something like this. It's like the Godfather. Emir, I come to you on this special day. Vincent is riding motorcycles through Cambodia, through land-mines. Some charity That's guilt not charity. He's Catholic and can't view himself as a shallow model f.u.c.k.e.r, which he is. And when war breaks out in some energy producing country, he's the first one into work. Bryan looks at her.
JULIE: That's guilt not charity. He's Catholic and can't view himself as a shallow model f.u.c.k.e.r, which he is. And when war breaks out in some energy producing country, he's the first one into work. Bryan looks at her.
BRYAN: I thought you like him. Vincent.
JULIE: I do, honey. For you, I like him very much. She takes his hand as they walk.
JULIE: Arabs are very family oriented, as a people. Is that racist? Max, a book-oriented, rather than water-oriented, child is afraid to jump in.
BRYAN: ( WATCHING-MAX )
JULIE: Don't. Let him work this out. It's important for his autonomy. Max finds his courage, jumps, and disappears beneath the surface, then bobs up happily. Julie smiles.
BRYAN: Hedge strategies are tough for these guys. Oil goes up the people wonder why those extra billions aren't in the treasury. Prices go down, no one's thanking them for saving a few bucks. Julie looks at her husband to determine whether he's testing his "pitch" or in need of encouragement.
JULIE: Make a game of it. Pretend they're six year-olds and you have to get them to eat carrots and all they want is dessert. Make it about good parenting.
EMIR: The house is a Genius-Home. One of my sons had it wired by experts from the United States.
PRINCE MESHAL: ON TV: the image of a rear guard house. Suddenly, the gate slides back, stops, slides the other way.
PRINCE NASIR: ( DISMISSIVE )
PRINCE MESHAL: Oh, look, it's getting dark, better turn on the lights ON SIX OF SEVEN MONITORS: pool lights turn on, shimmering turquoise. One pool remains dark. The Emir notices the dark pool. He presses the device. ON THE MONITOR: The lights go off. He presses again. Six pools light up, but one is still dark. The Emir ignores his son and speaks for the room.
EMIR: Send a fool on a fool's errand. Meshal frantically tries to make the pool light come on.
GULF BUSINESSMAN: We regret that His Highness will be unable to see you. However, we are authorized to hear your proposition on his behalf.
BRYAN: They nod. Bryan looks around. It's awkward.
OLDER KID: You're the shark and you try to tag us as we swim across. Max is uncertain, eyeing the dark water. From somewhere distant the LONDON PHILHARMONIC begins to play.
BYSTANDER: Cut the power! Cut the power! Bryan enters the area. He sees Julie being restrained. And a body in the water. As the estate goes dark, Bryan dives and holds Max, wading to the side with the lifeless body.
WASIM: ( PRACTICING )
WASIM: ( HALTING ARABIC )
ABU KHALIFA: I'm sorry. I already have a long list for that, too.
CUT TOÂ€¢: 50 EXT. CEMETERY - DAY 50 A mound of dirt under a blanket. A small mound. An Episcopal Minister saying something soundlessly. The mourners are Bryan and Julie's age which means they have small children. Mourners holding children.
FAROOQ: They gave us french fries at the Wasim's father, Saleem, enters with a few groceries.
WASIM: Papa, close the door.
ANOTHER FRIEND: His sister has a thing for you.
WASIM: His sister has a big ass.
FAROOQ: And lamb. We got skewers of lamb.
YUNUS: I like lamb. The children's faces are lit by the TV'S glowing light.
OLD MAN: Hot today. Can't remember the streets this hot. Saleem looks around, sees if anyone was listening, then takes the old man's arm.
SALEEM: You don't want to talk here. Suddenly, a POLICEMAN shoves Saleem from behind. Saleem turns to the officer, already apologizing, but Wasim steps between them. The cop pushes Wasim with his baton.
POLICEMAN: Tough guy? Is that right, tough guy? What's your name, tough guy? Wasim doesn't say anything. Yunus watches his father and brother. The cop pokes Wasim again with the stick
WASIM: The policeman swiftly brings his club down on Wasim's head, dropping him to his knees. other POLICEMEN close. Saleem gets in the middle, but is beaten down. Wasim tries to reach for Yunus who is SCREAMING and hitting at the policeman's legs. A club comes down on Wasim's head
NERVOUS DAUGHTER: I learned the value of diversity in my time at the Model U.N. And, across the rich leather and wood anteroom of a Princeton admissions office, Bob and Robby also wait.
ROBBY: Maybe you'll get made Ambassador to somewhere cool, like France or Italy or Ghana. What's your dad do? He's Ambassador to Ghana. That's so cool. I know. Bob looks over at his son like he doesn't really know who this person is, which he doesn't.
BOB: How's your mom?
ROBBY: ( FORCED GAIETY )
BOB: she's a secretary.
ROBBY: What did she do when you met her?
BOB: She was a secretary.
ROBBY: I've been airlifted out of foreign countries and I speak three languages because I have to. They'll feel sorry for me. An ADMISSIONS OFFICER signals to Robby who disappears through the door.
ROBBY: I know it's a year away but I'll have to have a car. A decent car. Nothing fancy, but it has to run. So I can get into Boston and New York. They have a great crew. That's what they told me. I said, crew of what? Ha, ha. They said, rowing. So.if I want to row. Bob quickly finishes a glass of cheap, white wine.
BOB: Robby, you know, I live. Where do I live? Maryland. I live in Maryland. Meaning you have residency there. In Maryland. For the University. Of Maryland. Robby liberally uses the hot sauce. Two LEBANESE MEN at another table nod in approval. Robby fires off Arabic.
BOB: Robby, it's complicated. I may have really screwed up at work.
ROBBY: I was supposed to keep my mouth shut and didn't. Robby is disappointed and angry.
BOB: I was supposed to keep my mouth shut and didn't. Robby is disappointed and angry.
ROBBY: What does Mom do again that we have to live in Islamabad?
BOB: She's a secretary. Robby turns back to the Arab men
BENNETT: You know, can't complain.
FARISH: That's not good, kiddo. That's suffering quietly. Married? Kids? Bennett shakes his head. Farish looks him over like a good diagnostician inspecting a patient. Then
BENNETT: Why don't you tell me what you have so I can respond? Farish looks at his guys. They all choke back laughs.
FARISH: I used to think something was wrong here. Now, I know something's wrong here. He stands, tall, imperious. Walks around his desk. Perches on the edge, towering over Bennett.
BENNETT: I guess you guys really have a handle on the angles. The U.S. Attorney team shares a moment at his expense.
FARISH: Let's talk about our old friend the Holder Memoranda. In charging a corporation or
BENNETT: Sentencing a company after a guilty plea, cooperation will be factored in, which includes waving the privileges afforded their Right. I remember you now. Strong A in Environmental Law.
FARISH: ( DAWNING )
BENNETT: ( to the Assistants ) He was an easy grader.
FARISH: Not anymore.
SYDNEY: I took a bit of a temperature reading. The other associates seem to like you. That's not really a good sign.
BENNETT: I'm sorry, Sir. HIGH ANGLE - down to the fishbowl aspect of the court. Sydney has a very good serve. As they talk he wins three points in a row, Bennett lunging at the spinning ball.
SYDNEY: Six apiece.
BENNETT: You got banker gangsters, gangster bankers. The Federal prosecutor is a good man. Smart.
HONEST: Inherited a ton of dough Seven.- Six. Already got his mind made up. Got his teeth in it like a little terrier. As Sydney is talking, he wins the point.
SYDNEY: Inherited a ton of dough Seven.- Six. Already got his mind made up. Got his teeth in it like a little terrier. As Sydney is talking, he wins the point.
BENNETT: I think they've got someone inside the deal. Somebody they can Like an informant?
SYDNEY: Like an informant?
BENNETT: Yes, Sir. Like an informant. Just my feeling based on their Sydney aces Bennett.
SYDNEY: He turns and holds out his hand.
SYDNEY: If people in oil deals talked to U.S. Attorneys, there'd be no oil DEAN WHITING, 60's, congenial, but powerful in build, an ex-marine, an insider for forty years, wanders over.
BENNETT: Good to see you again, Sir.
SYDNEY: We've been discussing the Connex- Killeen merger situation.
WHITING: Will they get approval? Helluva large company if they do. I mean, I don't know, Sir. The Tengiz field, Killeen's largest asset, is being looked at pretty heavily by the U.S. Attorney's office. Sydney Hewitt nods to another club member. Bennett turns to see DONALD FARISH III joining a far table.
BENNETT: I don't know, Sir. The Tengiz field, Killeen's largest asset, is being looked at pretty heavily by the U.S. Attorney's office. Sydney Hewitt nods to another club member. Bennett turns to see DONALD FARISH III joining a far table.
WHITING: Well, Bennett, as they say in the bible, there are many, many ways to light Europe.
JULIE: I wish I could just believe he's floating around on a cloud or in the corner watching us. Julie wants Bryan to comfort her, but he doesn't.
BRYAN: That minister eulogizing our child made me sick. How do you eulogize a child? He was great at playing. He loved popsicles. She rolls into him and he holds her, but he's staring at the ceiling as the child's cries echo down the hallway.
RILEY: ( his voice catching ) I want to look out the window. He holds up his arms for his father who lifts him. They walk to the window. Riley stops crying instantly, as children will, and shimmies out of his dad's arms. At the window, they stand together, silhouetted against the dark night and distant street light.
FRANKS: Nothing like the straight poop to wake 'em up on the 7th floor. And the Amiri brothers. Darn nice work. Darn nice. How're you finding everything? Must be a little slow-paced, a little dull?
BOB: Intelligence work isn't training seminars and little gold stars for What do you think intelligence work is, Bob? They turn a corner which gives way to another institutional white corridor.
FRANKS: What do you think intelligence work is, Bob? They turn a corner which gives way to another institutional white corridor.
BOB: It's two people in a room and one of them is asking a favor that's a capital crime in every country on earth. A hanging crime. Another corner. Another white hallway.
FRANKS: No, Bob. It's assessing the information gathered from that favor and balancing it against all the other information gathered from all the other favors. Franks smiles. Opens a door to a white, windowless room.
DIVISION CHIEF: Welcome, Bob. Good news. We have something for you, something we think you'll like, that makes use of your specific skill set.
DIVISION CHIEF: ( ADDRESSING BOB )
BOB: Prince Nasir Al-Subaai.
FRANKS: His money's in a lot of dark corners, paying for weapons that could be used against the USA. Franks slides Bob a thick file on Prince Nasir Al-Subaai.
DIVISION CHIEF: He's traveling to Beirut. You have some experience in Beirut, don't you, Bob?
BOB: It's a great city. Everybody chuckles.
DIVISION CHIEF: This is a bad guy and we need him off the table. Who knows, maybe you'll even find your blue-eyed I gotta get going a little early, my daughter's soccer tournament. The Division chief passes behind Bob's chair
FRANKS: I gotta get going a little early, my daughter's soccer tournament. The Division chief passes behind Bob's chair
BOB: Did you see my report on the missile? I reset guidance to blow ten feet off the ground
DIVISION CHIEF: Bob, you just don't get it. Nobody wants to hear about a missing missile, not right now. Besides, the ragheads'll never be able to figure out how it works. She leans down, taps the Nasir file, whispers.
STAN: How's Margaret? Divorced yet?
BOB: We're not getting divorced. Stan looks at him like he's kidding himself.
STAN: I'm telling you, Bobby my boy, number three is the charm.
BOB: What about this C.L.Z. - Committee to Liberate Iran?
STAN: Patriotic men donating their time, whose only goals are the full employment-and personal safety of every American. Bob glances sideways at him.
BOB: My goal was always to own a bar in Macau, before Macau got ruined like everywhere else.
STAN: There's nowhere left in the world to own a real bar, Bobby my boy, but I'll tell you one thing, you could quit right now, I'll get you hired back tomorrow as a. private consultant. You'll be doing the exact same job, sitting in the exact same office, only at double the salary.
BOB: I'm not doing anything sitting in that office. That's the problem. ( to the Bartender ) Bourbon rocks Bob glances up at the TV. ON TV: financial news, BRYAN WOODMAN in front of the trading floor at his company.
BRYAN: It's not like it's any secret Iran will refuse the snap inspections. ( after a pause ) okay. Thank you, Rebecca. Bryan nods and the lights go off on Bryan. He stares
BRYAN: It was a stupid question, Henry.
STAN: I like consulting. No, I love it. Love it. And I'll say this for it, private business is efficient. There I said it. Fucking cliche. And the CIA is like what, a thirty billion a year business. so anybody wants to sell anything, a pencil, a computer, they gotta interface through a security clearance don't give me shit I got two kids in college and we're doing our kitchen.
BOB: Stan, I got a chance to go back. I want to go back. Is it safe for You talking about with your wife or the wackos? Bob doesn't say anything. He looks away.
STAN: You talking about with your wife or the wackos? Bob doesn't say anything. He looks away.
BENNETT: Sea. Caspian Sea. Like seashore.
JIMMY: Caspian's surrounded. Like a pond. Caspian pond.
JIMMY: ( TO BENNETT )
BENNETT: The other side?
JIMMY: El Presidente Nazerbayev's best pal in the whole world.
Â€¢ JIMMY: Six billion barrels of oil, a billion of natural gas liquid, fourteen trillion cubic feet of
GAS: ( CONTINUED ) 69 CONTINUED: 69
JIMMY: That's Kenya, Danny, not one of these turkey shoots.
JIMMY: Fuck Connex. Fucking slant- drillers. Don't know why I ever sold 'em my company in the first place. Here, take your pick. He hands Bennett a thick catalogue. ANGLE ON CATALOGUE: Pages of animals you can shoot with pictures and description. ADDAX "this large African antelope is white with a gray masked face. It's horns corkscrew up making multiple twists in both sexes. Large males can weigh 275 lbs. Both males and females make handsome trophies.
BENNETT: I have a feeling this U.S. Attorney has a source.
JIMMY: Like somebody who didn't get into Tengiz and is pissed off about it.
BENNETT: Any idea who that might be? Jimmy looks at Bennett like he was just born.
JIMMY: How 'bout every other oil company in the world. ( re: the catalogue ) What's your fancy? Bennett randomly picks an animal from the list.
BENNETT: I'm not sure
JIMMY: Jesus H. Christ. Kudu is rare. Get that gun up. Bennett lifts the rifle. THROUGH THE CROSS-HAIRS the Kudu is gigantic and unaware of the hunters.
JIMMY: My granddaddy was a wildcatter. Same with my daddy. That's how I got my start. Luck and hard work. Nobody handed me shit. Now, I got libraries and parks named after me. And I'll probably ruin the grand-kids. You wearing a wire, Mind if I pat you down? Jimmy checks for a recording device. He's clean.
BENNETT: Mind if I pat you down? Jimmy checks for a recording device. He's clean.
JIMMY: Mind if I pat you down? Jimmy checks for a recording device. He's clean.
BENNETT: I don't know who my father is. On Bennett as Jimmy FIRES
CABBIE: Southern Suburbs. Bob happily waves him on. Streets narrow. People stare.
BOB: How can you tell if you're talking to a Shiite or a Sunni Muslim.
SAID HASHIMI: I have a good feeling about American people, Bob. A good people. A welcoming people. There U.S. I have over 300,000 followers in Detroit alone.
BOB: Thank you for this audience. I have a business proposal for Mussawi. One that benefits Hashimi nods magisterially.
SAID HASHIMI: Mussawi is an energetic young man.
BOB: I thought it would also be prudent to say, I have no interest in Hezbollah. This is business and it doesn't concern Hezbollah. In the distance a dog barks and chickens cluck. After a beat, Hashimi turns his rheumy eyes on Bob.
HASHIMI: If what you say is true, consider yourself welcome in Lebanon. The generator comes on with a distant WHIR. The lights come on. A man crosses to the air-conditioner, reaches up and trips the circuit breaker, bringing it back to life.
MUSSAWI: I gotta ask you one question. Amin Shehab. car accident? Bob turns to look at MUSSAWI, 30's, closely-shaved bullet head, seemingly good-natured, a businessman, he speaks English with a New Jersey accent.
BOB: Yeah, sure. Only one of them was propelled by gas and the other by
MUSSAWI: The papers said heart attack. Bob nods pleasantly.
BOB: He saw an engine coming at him at 27,000 feet per second and his heart stopped. This settles a beat.
MUSSAWI: Rumors of Bob, but never Bob. It is Bob, right? What is it you tell people you do these days, Bob?
BOB: I'm between State Department and Bob surreptitiously looks around to see if Mussawi is alone. It's clear Bob makes him nervous as well.
MUSSAWI: Just me, buddy, as requested. Bob reaches inside his jacket. Mussawi reaches in his.
BOB: I'm getting some information, My name is Mussawi. Bob hands a picture to Mussawi.
MUSSAWI: My name is Mussawi. Bob hands a picture to Mussawi.
BOB: Okay, Jimmy. Mussawi glances down at the picture. It surprises him. ANGLE on the picture of PRINCE NASIR crossing a street. Bob has a small pad on which he scribbles a dollar figure. Mussawi glances at the number. He's impressed.
MUSSAWI: He's traveling to Beirut. It's dangerous to travel. He'll I want you to drug him, put him in the front of a car and run a truck into it at fifty miles an hour.
BOB: I want you to drug him, put him in the front of a car and run a truck into it at fifty miles an hour.
MUSSAWI: It's good to have you back in town, Bob.
SUPPLICANT: Your generosity is bigger than a mountain that shades us from the burning sun. I humbly ask for my citizenship expiry date to be The Prince nods his assent. Across the deck Bryan sits with the PRINCESS AL-SUBAAI, 30, a Westernized young woman with dignity beyond her years. They watch as Nasir is served coffee by SERVANTS who make sure not to block his view of the financial news. The supplicants stare at the Princess.
SUPPLICANT #2: The money given for my children's education was spent on farming and camels, but your benevolence is like the shade of palm trees in an Nasir nods then makes his way over. Bryan watches the princess smile. Her husband kisses her cheek. Nasir sits.
PRINCE NASIR: My father has ordered the Marbella estate to be razed.
PRINCE NASIR: A house main was run in the wrong place. The covering for the wiring had deteriorated. Bryan just stares at him.
BRYAN: You can't possibly understand.
NASIR: An ancestor of mine owned this bird's ancestor before Christ was The falcon catches an updraft and rises effortlessly.
BRYAN: Six blocks. Which phase?
NASIR: Phase three.
BRYAN: ( CALCULATING )
NASIR: Okay, fine. I'll have the money forwarded to your firm And I'll give you another hundred million for the other kid. They look at each other.
BRYAN: Okay. You want an idea, here's an He draws in the sand: he draws Nasir's kingdom, the Persian Gulf, Iran. Turkey. And Europe.
REVERAND STEWART: And when Jesus had been Baptized, just as he came up from the water, suddenly the heavens were opened and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and alighting on him. And a voice from heaven said, "This is my Son, the Beloved, with whom I am well pleased." Let us pray: 0 God, open our hearts to your word and open your word to our hearts. Amen. AMENS. Danny Dalton, his WIFE and CHILDREN sit in good seats up front. Danny has a flag pin on his lapel.
PRINCE NASIR: We begin the process of empowering a new generation of Arabs with the skills and training necessary to succeed globally. Bryan claps dutifully. But he's on the phone, the cord dangling from ear to Blackberry which reads "work."
PRINCE NASIR: our 13 point document is an agreement on principles calling for greater political freedom, good governance and transparency, advanced civil liberties and human rights, women's rights, and judicial reforms. Bryan's phone vibrates again - JULIE HOME. He turns the phone off.
PRINCE NASIR: Nasir motions for them to squeeze together for Bob. The gate closes. The lift creaks and begins to rise.
BOB: Nasir motions for them to squeeze together for Bob. The gate closes. The lift creaks and begins to rise.
PRINCE NASIR: Don't see many Occidentals these Bob doesn't say anything.
BOB: ( RE: MSA )
MUSSAWI: The name is Mussawi. TIGHT ON the pliers and nail as, ever so slowly, it is ripped from Bob's hand.
MUSSAWI: You fucking fuck, fucking fuck stupid fuck, what the fuck. This is war you fuck. You're a P.O.fuckingW. Give me the fucking From Bob's POV Mussawi loses his shit. He starts battering Bob, blood flying in ropes, the chair sliding across the floor. The men watch without expression.
PARALEGAL: I found this. wire transfer. Bennett snaps awake. He looks at the document.
BENNETT: Russian. I don't read Russian. Get it translated.
BENNETT: What are these?
PARALEGAL #2: Orphans. Stuff that doesn't make any sense. Bennett idly fingers a piece of paper - a receipt.
BENNETT: Everybody stop what you're doing. They look up, bleary.
PARALEGAL: Yeah. Fuck you.
REZA BARHANI: Capitalism cannot exist without On the walls pictures of Meshal as a child with Reagan, Qaddafi. As a teenager with Clinton, King Fahd, Mitterrand, Chernomyrdin.
WHITING: You're certainly welcome. Ha, ha. Our pleasure, really. Bonhomie galore. But Meshal is either wary or stupid or both. Reza points to a glass case where a huge leather- bound book is displayed.
REZA BARHANI: Prince, that is a rare treasure.
WHITING: Prince, is there anything we can do for you? The Prince thinks about this for a beat.
PRINCE MESHAL: Americans are very happy to drill holes in other people's countries.
WHITING: I know your brother, the foreign minister. Very bright. I know your father, too. He threw the second creepiest party I've ever been to in Washington. And from what I can tell you could probably use a bit of a cat's paw yourself. Second born son so beaten down by his family he can't even tell me what he wants when he's asked straight out, a grown-up baby who hates his brother and maybe wants to be king, maybe.
PRINCE MESHAL: I do have one small dream, a selfless dream. At my house I have a perfect one-third replica of Hyde Park. I have ducks and deck chairs from the real Hyde Park.
REZA BARHANI: That already exists. It is called the Alhambra.
PRINCE MESHAL: A replica in my country to inspire the people and a new Cordoba Valley from which to view it. It took the masters a hundred years, but I believe we can do it in ten.
WASIM: The spider is a symbol of the sin of man. He bites the finger of Peter Parker who is now half dark and half light.
FAROOQ: A real spider captures, then stings and immobilizes, then watches as the prey takes days to They'd never show that. Suddenly they stop. MOHAMMED SHEIK AGIZA, the blue-eyed Egyptian, has been watching them. They are embarrassed.
WASIM: They'd never show that. Suddenly they stop. MOHAMMED SHEIK AGIZA, the blue-eyed Egyptian, has been watching them. They are embarrassed.
FAROOQ: Are we in trouble? MSA smiles a patient, charismatic, spooky smile. They already know each other.
FAROOQ: Wasim is still a virgin. Wasim lightly shoves Farooq.
FAROOQ: I'm a virgin, too.
FRANKS: We just received a dispatch from Damascus, eight minutes old. Mussawi's shopping a story that we sent Bob to Beirut to assassinate Prince Nasir. The Division Chief drops her cigarette in a coffee can.
TERRY GEORGE: Can we get this guy? I mean now - real time now.
FRANKS: TERRY GEORGE
TERRY GEORGE: Yes. Mussawi.
DIVISION CHIEF: Practical answer is no. Not before he goes into another mosque or newspaper and this story gains He's got Bob's name?
TERRY GEORGE: He's got Bob's name?
DIVISION CHIEF: Not his real name. But he's shopping photos of them doing the deal, long lens. Photos of Bob being held. He's lucky he's alive.
FRANKS: The whole contact was a set-up. Mussawi apparently now works for Iran. First, he tortures our guy, then peddles the CIA connection. This is not good at all. After a moment to think, he spits this out, quickly:
TERRY GEORGE: Put some air between us and Bob. Bob has a long history of entrepreneurial operations. We haven't really had a handle on Bob for years. After nine one one, some people got too much leeway, let their emotions get the best of them. These are complex times. There's already an active investigation into Bob's actions in, help me out here They begin to spin the line together.
FRANKS: Tehran? The Amiri brothers job?
TERRY GEORGE: .We're trying to find out who, might have hired Bob for the Amiri brothers job. Could the same people be behind the Nasir job? A lot of people seem to want this Prince Nasir dead and Bob knows a lot of people.
BOB: CIA SECURITY OFFICER ( O.S. ) You met them at a party in the South of France?
BOB: Bob is framed by two, not-bright CIA SECURITY OFFICERS.
BOB: CIA OFFICER #2
BOB: Of course I was aware. It's why I went after them.
BOB: what do you think?
MARGARET: In their helpful way they told me you were at one of six places but since you were a number and not a name did I happen to have that number. No. No is the answer to whether I have your number. She rests her hand on the railing of the bed. On the verge, she looks away, then back again.
BOB: I'm okay. I'm fine. Hey
MARGARET: ( into his chest ) They wouldn't tell me a thing. Not one thing. He holds her. As she becomes aware of the bandages on his hands, as her worry has been abating, anger has ineluctably filled in behind.
BOB: I saw these Shiites selling an Egyptian a missile. In Iran. I had a feeling about this guy, a Sunni nut-job, but I'm back here where I got on the wrong side of Terry, then an opportunity just happened to come up involving someone I worked with before, not a radical, I mean, he went to Rutgers, only now he flips, wants to cut my goddamn head off. And now they got me isolated away in here and they send these suits around asking me nonsense questions about bad people who are no longer with us, no longer with us on their goddamn orders. So you tell me what happened. You tell me, Margaret. Margaret doesn't know what to say so she says nothing.
ARAB YOUTH: Shit. Park Place. Shit Park Place with hotels. Bryan holds Park Place. The Arab Youth takes off his diamond encrusted Rolex and tosses it toward the bank.
BRYAN: El Segundo. No one has heard of it.
ARAB YOUTH: Movie stars, convertibles?
BRYAN: El Segundo is like Saudi Arabia with a surf break. They hoot and protest. They don't believe him.
ARAB YOUTH: If anyone works, it can't be Saudi They all LAUGH LOUDLY, then the laughter fades as they realize Julie and Riley are in the hotel room. Julie eyes the money and the Asian girl in the corner.
JULIE: He wanted to say good night to his Riley goes over and stiffly gives Bryan a hug.
ASSISTANT: she's in a meeting.
BOB: What about Fred?
ASSISTANT: He's in a meeting.
BOB: Fred turns and sees Bob, looks around uncomfortably.
FRED FRANKS: ( to his wife ) Honey, take the kids inside, would you? I'll be in in a sec. Bob and Fred watch the family go up the walk.
BOB: I was almost killed, Fred. My hands were mutilated. And they're asking me about the Amiri brothers? About Tehran?
FRED FRANKS: You gotta understand. This wrecks careers. I shouldn't even be talking to you.
BOB: I typed in Prince Nasir Al-Subai and my computer gets seized.
FRED FRANKS: I'm advising you to drop it.
BOB: Where did this Prince Nasir job come from? Why was I tortured. Why am I being investigated? Why was I NEIGHBORS stare. Fred's kids look out the window.
FRED FRANKS: Goodbye, Bob. Lifting up to see Bob isolated in the grid of identical, treeless houses.
BENNETT: Take this to Sydney Hewitt. Now.
TOMMY: Not to my recollection Bennett and Sydney square off against Tommy, Jimmy, their personal lawyers, one apiece.
BENNETT: Killeen Oil through Daniel Dalton and PetroKa Energy Consultants created assetless shell companies owned by the heirs of President Nazerbayev. This was. discussed. ( checks his notes ) At the Upstream Division Meeting held in January of 2003 in Sun Valley, Idaho?
TOMMY: I was at the meeting, but I don't focus on those kinds of details.
BENNETT: Wherein it was described that Killeen bore all financial risk, but President Nazerbayev's children, while attending The Lily School in Switzerland, were entitled to all of the profits - seventy million dollars. Tommy's personal lawyer leans in and whispers in his ear.
TOMMY: I attended the meeting but, as I said, I don't focus on those kinds of details.
BENNETT: Daniel Dalton Jr. and PetroKa Energy Consultants
TOMMY'S LAWYER: A firm retained by Killeen well prior to Connex's involvement
JIMMY: Oh, fer Chrissakes, Tommy, we both got letters from the Grand Jury, it's not your own private little pity party
BENNETT: A good faith purchaser is in good faith only if they didn't know about the problems at the time of the purchase
TOMMY: This is the oil business we're talking about, right?
JIMMY: The lowliest little shareholder knows we deal with some of the most stank places on earth
BENNETT: It is illegal to offer gifts, money or the promise of money or anything of value to influence foreign officials
JIMMY: Oh, is it? I have personally seen a bill from this law firm to the government of Saudi Arabia for 36 million dollars. A one line bill for services rendered.
BENNETT: The business of Whiting, Sloan is not under discussion at this time.
JIMMY: Well, it oughta be. Danny's a good man. He's a friend of mine.
ARAB YOUTH: They've sued the Emir on the Isle of Jersey and frozen his money. He was in Bulgari and his credit card stopped working.
PRINCE NASIR: Some people, cousins of mine actually, sued my father in The Commonwealth alleging that he broke agreements to repay funds transferred from the State. Bryan follows Nasir. He glances at a photo of AGGRIEVED ARABS leaving court with DEAN WHITING looking protective.
BRYAN: A Mareva injunction?
PRINCE NASIR: Aggrieved Royals. Aggrieved about what? That he tried to cut their allowances from one hundred thousand a month to eighty. They pass wife, children, hangers-on. Room after room.
BRYAN: What are they thinking? They're thinking we're running out. We're running out and ninety percent of what's left is in the Middle East. So if you look at the whole progression from Versailles, through Suez, 1973, Gulf War One, Gulf War II, it's really shaping up as a fight to the death.
PRINCE NASIR: Come with me, please.
PRINCE NASIR: I studied at Oxford. I have a PHD from Georgetown. I want to create a parliament. I want to give women the right to vote. I want an independent Judiciary. I want, to start a new petroleum exchange in the Middle-east and cut the speculators out of the business. why are the major oil exchanges in New York and London anyway? I'll put all of our energy up for competitive bidding, I'll pipe through Iran to Europe like you proposed, I'll ship to China, anything that achieves efficiency and maximizes profits for my people, profits which I'll then use to rebuild my country.
BRYAN: That's great, that's exactly what you should do.
PRINCE NASIR: Exactly, except your President calls my father, says, I've got unemployment in Texas, Kansas, Washington State. One phone call later we're stealing out of our social programs to buy overpriced airplanes. We owed the Americans, but we've repaid that debt.
STAN: Questions two and three seem obvious to me. Missiles are everywhere. Christ, Casey gave 'em out like party favors. This damage assessment, well, let's just say Nasir wasn't a home run. They're worried. About fall-out.
BOB: What about Mussawi?
STAN: Mussawi's a soldier. He's just like you. Bob stares at Stan who continues.
BOB: Did Prince Nasir hide Mohammed Sheik Agiza in the Water Ministry? Does he fund terrorist Tell people what they want to hear and they have a better chance of believing you. People were paid to lie, coached on their polygraphs. Single sources spread through different intelligence agencies that don't communicate with each other. You know how it's done.
STAN: Tell people what they want to hear and they have a better chance of believing you. People were paid to lie, coached on their polygraphs. Single sources spread through different intelligence agencies that don't communicate with each other. You know how it's done.
BOB: Who's worried about the Nasir job? Stan, who's worried about me On the screen: a LOUD, ACTION BEAT. Stan leans over and
WHISPERS: CUT TO:
BENNETT: You broke the law, Mr. Dalton.
BENNETT: You have 37 million dollars hidden away and the only question I can see of any relevance is whether you'll get to keep any of it. The two men are tiny against the architecture, the nation's capitol going on with it's day around them.
SYDNEY: How'd it go? Think you'll get invited on any more hunting trips?
BENNETT: He has kids. He's got a wife.
SYDNEY: He broke the law. Sydney holds out a golden envelope to Bennett.
EMIR: I am tired.
PRINCE NASIR: ( CONTINUED ) 141 CONTINUED: 141
FATHER: ( CONTINUED ) 141 CONTINUED: 141
EMIR: Your brother. Prince Nasir looks from his father to brother and back.
PRINCE MESHAL: I would ask you to remain as Foreign Minister. Prince Meshal sticks out his hand. Nasir ignores it and speaks to his father.
PRINCE NASIR: You cannot do this. He is barely qualified to run a brothel much less a country.
EMIR: ( VAGUELY )
PRINCE NASIR: I cannot do that.
BRYAN: Sure, it looks like just hanging around in a hotel but that's how these people do business. It's world historical stage time. With the delivery deals we can make in Europe, transport through Iran, this guy might be able to revolutionize not just his country, but the whole region.
JULIE: Stop it! Look at me. The fountain shoots up and cascades down. Riley leans toward the water and for a second his feet lift up. Bryan starts up, but then Riley is playing again.
BRYAN: Julie, the little trading company I work for is now the chief economic advisor to Prince Nasir. Do you know what this means? It's like someone put a giant ATM on our front lawn.
JULIE: Here's a question: how do you think it looks to profit off the death of your six year-old? This gets through, but then
BRYAN: Fuck you. I changed the diapers and put cream on rashes and gave bottles in the night and went to doctor's check-ups and worried about percentiles. I did everything right. I did everything They look at each other and, for a second, it seems he may melt and hold her, but he doesn't and it's cruel.
JULIE: Bryan, we're going back to She heads for Riley who lets go of a balloon. It floats up past the watch signs plastered on the buildings.
BRYAN: ( CONTINUED ) 142 CONTINUED: ( 2 ) 142
WHITING: ( SLEEPY VOICE ) ALARM COMPANY
ALARM COMPANY: Hello, is this Mr. Why-Teeng? This is HomeTech Security. He reaches for the bedside light and snaps it on. Mrs. Whiting is a lump on the far side of the bed.
WHITING: This is Mr. Whiting.
ALARM COMPANY: We're showing a motion sensor failure in your downstairs study.
WHITING: Whiting glances at the wall readout on his alarm DOWNSTAIRS STUDY flashing.
ALARM COMPANY: Like I said we're getting a failure message. You want me to stay on the phone with you while you walk around or send a car? Whiting reaches under his bed and pulls a gun box. He flips the combination. Three pistols. He selects the largest and switches off the light.
WHITING: I'll walk around.
WHITING: ( INTO PHONE )
ALARM COMPANY: How're we doing, Mr. Why-Teeng? It's secure. He tries another one. It's secure.
WHITING: ( INTO PHONE )
ALARM COMPANY: Did you leave it unlocked?
WHITING: Send a car, you imbecile. He looks at the alcove and closet. Just then, the desk phone RINGS, startling him. The phone rings and rings. on the wall behind Whiting's head are beautifully framed photos with Kissinger, Clinton, King Fahd. Rack focus off Whiting and slowly ZOOM to.
BOB: You were in Beirut in '84.
WHITING: I lost friends there as I'm sure you did.
BOB: I didn't used to need to know. A Grand Slam Breakfast is set in front of Bob.
WHITING: In this town, you're innocent until you're investigated. Bob looks up and squints at the waitress' name-tag.
BOB: Bacon looks perfect, Deborah. Bob puts syrup on the pancakes. Eats a piece of bacon.
WHITING: Beirut rules, Mr. Baer? Whiting loves the game. Bob looks tired, maybe a little I've made decisions that resulted in deaths, but I never lost a nights sleep. Never. I killed people, but I always had about 500 pages of U.S. law behind me, law that I believed in, and that was good enough.
BOB: I've made decisions that resulted in deaths, but I never lost a nights sleep. Never. I killed people, but I always had about 500 pages of U.S. law behind me, law that I believed in, and that was good enough.
WHITING: You still do, Mr. Baer. You still Bob stares at him.
BOB: I want my passports back.
FARISH: Bennett, hey. Come on. Take a ride with me. Bennett keeps jogging.
BENNETT: I do, Don. Very well.
FARISH: Then, you also know your client is into some shady stuff and it's starting to look like you could be involved in hiding the true nature of the transactions. Bennett stops. Farish's car stops. Bennett is panting.
BENNETT: That's quite a statement, Don.
BENNETT: One word. Dalton.
FARISH: Danny Dalton?
BENNETT: Defrauded the Government of Kazakhstan of funds to which it was entitled, defrauded the people of Kazakhstan of the right to the honest services of their elected and appointed officials. Seven years, does three, maybe two point seven, on your recommendation. out the window the bad neighborhood is giving way back to the developing neighborhood where Bennett lives.
FARISH: And let me guess: this was a solo act, without the knowledge of Connex or Killeen Oil, of Mr. Lee Janus or Jimmy Pope.
BENNETT: Dalton's a bit of a rogue, it's And he'll have a nice little trust fund waiting when he gets out.
FARISH: And he'll have a nice little trust fund waiting when he gets out.
BENNETT: Not so little, I imagine.
FARISH: I'm sorry, Bennett. I don't think Dalton's enough.
BENNETT: ( re: the cigarette ) What are you doing?
BENNETT: Really. Well, I'll tell you what I'm not doing: I'm not running a shelter. You going back to work? No answer.
BENNETT: Dalton's not enough. So they will sit on him until he explains the how and why and the who, and they will be forced to unravel this Jimmy turns from the grill.
JIMMY POPE: I'd be real careful. You dig a three foot hole, you'll find one body, but you dig a six foot hole and you might find twenty.
BENNETT: Dalton's not enough.
JIMMY POPE: We use one quarter of the oil in the world, Bennett. Your house is light and warm and my house is light and warm, but what if it was that way half the week, or none of the week. Hell, China's economy ain't growing as fast as it could because they can't get all the oil they need. I'm damn proud of that Bennett gives him nothing. A beat.
BENNETT: If he's as big as you say then when he goes down the merger will be approved. Despite himself, Jimmy is impressed
JIMMY POPE: Just like that.
BENNETT: We're looking for the illusion of due-diligence. Two criminal acts successfully prosecuted gives us that illusion. Jimmy hands Bennett a plate of ribs and smiles.
JIMMY POPE: Call me Jimmy.
SUICIDE BOMBER: Three: I don't want a pregnant woman to come and say good bye to me because I don't approve it.
WASIM: ( CONTINUED ) 153 CONTINUED: 153
OW: ( CONTINUED ) 153 CONTINUED: 153
FAROOQ: The questioning means that you have faith and makes it stronger
WASIM: That's a lot of shit, I think. Farooq looks around to see if anyone is listening.
FAROOQ: We'll get to intervene in the affairs of family members. We'll be able to help them with whatever they need.
PRINCE NASIR: Twenty seven tribes in my country and we all hate each other. My father arrested the malcontents. He crushed the religious zealots. Try reasoning with people who have one foot in the afterlife, he said, as he leveled village after Another angle and Bryan is approaching. Behind him is the desert house made mainly of tents and sails. DIGNITARIES wait on the deck and watch Nasir.
PRINCE: You know what place my children love most on earth? My children love Colorado. I could easily live in Colorado while my brother presides over a civil war. I could be very comfortable. Bryan watches Nasir.
BRYAN: I don't see you moving to 155 INT. BEDOUIN TENT - DAY 155 The tent is crowded with tribal and military leaders. Worried and suspicious, they.sit on rugs and recline against pillows. Nasir enters and takes his seat.
PRINCE NASIR: For centuries Islam has been ruled by people with no respect for law, monopolies handed out for the things that people want, commerce stifled, young people unable to find jobs, critics jailed or put to death, women are second-class
CITIZENS: He is interrupted by a BEDOUIN LEADER.
BEDOUIN LEADER: Tomorrow is the coronation. Your brother has the support of the United States. And 10,000 of their troops are stationed in our This is true. My father is ill and weak and unwilling to fight the Americans. But others are willing. And when a country has five percent of the world's population but does fifty percent of its military spending, then the persuasive powers of that country are on the decline. The crowd is unmoved. Rallying the men will not be easy.
PRINCE NASIR: This is true. My father is ill and weak and unwilling to fight the Americans. But others are willing. And when a country has five percent of the world's population but does fifty percent of its military spending, then the persuasive powers of that country are on the decline. The crowd is unmoved. Rallying the men will not be easy.
BOB: If I told you I knew of something that was going to happen to someone and that I felt I had to try and stop it even though it will probably cost me my job, what would you say? She really looks at him.
MARGARET: You can't tell me any more? No, of course not. She looks away. Outside the window a huge plane is pulling away from the gate.
SALEEM: I wanted to be on a bobsled in the Olympics. I wanted to drive. That was my dream. The men have no idea what he's talking about. He sees Wasim walking toward him.
WASIM: Can I borrow bus fare, papa?
SALEEM: Wasim, tell them about the It's a little car that goes down a track of ice and snow. Saleem pulls some change from his pocket and hands it to his son.
WASIM: It's a little car that goes down a track of ice and snow. Saleem pulls some change from his pocket and hands it to his son.
SALEEM: Oh, how snow sparkles, the crunch of it under your feet, the quiet and calm it brings Wasim suddenly hugs his father who is surprised but hugs him back. Then Wasim walks away.
FRANKS: ( TO HIMSELF )
WILLY: Just heard from Tampa, the J-STARS are tracking and we should have an image from the Predator in a few He eats some chips, offers some to another guy.
FRANKS: He eats some chips, offers some to another guy.
WILLY: CUT TO:
PRINCE NASIR: The Middle-East and the Arab people have seen empires come and go in six millennia. The Pax Romana, the Pax Ottomanica, the Pax Brittanica, were nothing more than invasions and occupations that ended. The Pax Americana will end, too. His wife and daughters proudly watch.
BODYGUARD: Silver Hummer
SYDNEY: His wife'll be there. Pat. Butter wouldn't melt in her mouth. The elevator TONES on every floor.
MRS. JANUS: Sydney, how are you? And you must be Mr. Holiday? she shakes his hand. Gives Sydney both cheeks. They cross the large suite, one wall of which is floor-to-ceiling windows giving a dazzling view of mid-town Manhattan.
MR. JANUS: Syd! Bennett! Lee Janus! How're we Janus is standing with his hand out
WILLY: Unmanned Aerial Vehicles. I love And it's quiet, right?
FRED FRANKS: And it's quiet, right?
WILLY: Baby cruises at eighty knots, about as audible as the clouds.
BENNETT: The lawyers are saying, hey, if you can't trust a Big Five accounting firm. And the accountants are saying, hey, we're not lawyers. Legal didn't understand. Accounting didn't understand. Nobody understood anything. The regulatory bodies had to scratch their heads for a minute that nobody at Connex or Killeen was at fault, but this merger is so balance-positive for American consumers that ultimately Justice wants it, the Federal court wants it. Everybody wants it. Our real client is US, the American people, and we're building our presence in Kazakhstan, so we had to give them a little something meaningful and they got out of our way. Mr. Janus glances at the TV where a pro golfer sinks a long, undulating putt.
MR. JANUS: Something besides Dalton?
BENNETT: Unfortunately, yes. And the best option seemed to be a secret deal for excess Iranian pipeline capacity that I uncovered during the diligence, a side deal benefiting the lead lawyer involved in the Connex-Killeen merger approval process. A slow dawning on Sydney's face
SYDNEY: What do you think you're doing?
BENNETT: Of course, it's illegal for an American to control these rights
SYDNEY: Stop. Right. Now. Bennett and Mr. Janus look at Sydney.
MR. JANUS: Is there something you want to tell me, Syd?
FUNCTIONARY: Each container holds over 20 million U.S. dollars of fuel, that's 100 million in total, quite a haul. A wide of the beautiful harbor. Fire boats spray water. And far away, a FLOTILLA of native fishing boats, dhows and sambuks and boums, makes its way out to sea.
SYDNEY: In our line of work, the guy with the documents is usually the guy who stole the documents.
BENNETT: Finesse. Strategize. Advise. But don't own. Your words.
SYDNEY: You aren't going to hurt me, Bennett. You'll wash out of the private sector. Fact, you're already gone. You'll end up working public defender cases. You'll make 1/50th the money. You could have been on the boards of Fortune Five Hundred companies. You could have been an advisor to Presidents. You could have helped us win like Romans instead of sitting on the sidelines hoping we don't turn into Visigoths.
BENNETT: A piece of advice Syd, one attorney to another. Bennett leans close
SYDNEY: Don. Not the perp walk, Don Farish nods as if to acknowledge they're barely out of round one. And they begin leading Sydney out. Across the room, silhouetted by the windows, Mrs. Janus helps Mr. Janus slip on his tux jacket. They see Bennett standing awkwardly in the middle of the room. Pat extends her hand for him to join them.
MR. JANUS: I'm a straight shooter, Bennett. I think it was Trollope who said the best capitalist is someone who's greedy and honest. We can't forget that second part.
MRS. JANUS: It was Trollope, honey.
MR. JANUS: We're creating a lot of jobs this quarter, Bennett, a lot of jobs. We're building a business and that's what America's all about.
SOMETHING: SOMEONE ELSE
SOMEONE ELSE: Target acquisition. ON THE MONITOR the silver roof unmoving in the desert.
WILLY: Right. Target acquisition. That's what we got here.
BRYAN: You guys should ride together. Nasir and Bryan exchange a glance then Nasir helps his wife into the vehicle. Bryan hands the baby up to them.
SIR DAVID: I would like to say, in making our selection of the recipient of this award, John Brown can't win every year. It would be like Formula One with Schumacher and Ferrari winning over and over. And I don't need to tell you whose fuel they're using. Faces in the crowd, eating and laughing
MR. JANUS: Thank you, Sir David. Thank you.
TRANSMISSION: How long?
FRANKS: How long?
WILLY: I don't know. I can find out. I think from Yemen to here was like four or five seconds.
BOB: It's okay. It's okay. Bob slowly. approaches Prince Nasir's vehicle. They stare at one another. Nasir lowers his window.
PRINCE NASIR: I remember you. You're the Tight on Bob. He starts to speak
MR. JANUS: I accept this award on behalf of the employees of Connex-Killeen, our people, the finest in the Guys, could I get you to stand up for a moment? At the CONNEX table, Tommy and Jimmy and the others get to their feet. The crowd APPLAUDS. Bennett applauds Jimmy who sees him clapping and applauds him right back
MR. JANUS: I want to thank our strategic friends from around the globe who are here tonight. More APPLAUSE. Emir Meshal Al-Subaai gives a little wave to both sides of the room.
WASIM: During the funeral I want everyone to be quiet. And I should be lying on my right side.
BENNETT: ( GENTLY )
THE END: Writers : Stephen Gaghan Robert Baer
