ED TV: Lowell Ganz & Babaloo Mandel This is the first eRelease for the script of the movie "Ed TV" This script was scanned, proof read and formatted by Ueli Riegg eMail: ueli.riegg@gmx.ch; URL: http://studiour.tsx.org
COACH: You quit! You gave up! He KICKS a CHAIR. Now Amy is really a mess. She's crying, coughing, shaking.
REVEAL: 2 INT. OFFICE - DAY BEGIN CREDITS We're in New York City. We're in the conference room of a modestly successful cable TV station called "Real TV." The people are young, energetic, clever. It's crowded, noisy -the furniture is beaten up, bulletin boards cover the walls, with large index cards all over them. This room is not for show work gets done here. SEVEN OR EIGHT PEOPLE are present. One of them is CYNTHIA REED. She's the boss.
BEGIN CREDITS: We're in New York City. We're in the conference room of a modestly successful cable TV station called "Real TV." The people are young, energetic, clever. It's crowded, noisy -the furniture is beaten up, bulletin boards cover the walls, with large index cards all over them. This room is not for show work gets done here. SEVEN OR EIGHT PEOPLE are present. One of them is CYNTHIA REED. She's the boss.
TERRY: ( to Cynthia ) What do you think?
CYNTHIA: It's horrible, it's depressing, I love it. What else?
ALICE: I want to re-pitch that pregnancy idea. Find six women early in their pregnancies and follow them all right through to the births.
KEITH: ( negative ) Yeah, when all that stuff comes Mixed reactions, mostly negative.
CYNTHIA: I have an idea.
IMMEDIATE ATTENTION: CYNTHIA ( CONT'D ) This is something I've been thinking about for a long time. We're "Real TV" right? I mean that's the name of the station.
AGREEMENT: CYNTHIA ( CONT'D ) So let's go real. We find someone. Just a regular person, someone. And we put their life on television - live. all day long. Silence. No movement at all.
KEITH: What do you mean, like PBS did in the seventies? What was that The Louds.
GREG: The Louds.
KEITH: No. We go way beyond that. We don't film it and edit it and put it on later. We go on the air live every morning and the show goes off each night, when our subject goes to bed. In between, we're on live all day, every day - the same person, for let's say a month. No one is wild for this. Some hate it some are unconvinced.
CYNTHIA: No. We go way beyond that. We don't film it and edit it and put it on later. We go on the air live every morning and the show goes off each night, when our subject goes to bed. In between, we're on live all day, every day - the same person, for let's say a month. No one is wild for this. Some hate it some are unconvinced.
FELICIA: That's not a show that's a surveillance camera.
GREG: You can't do that.
CYNTHIA: The hell we can't. Look, the beauty of being a cable channel is we can take chances. I've thought about this and I'm telling you, I think this can make a noise. A loud one. There are twelve thousand channels. You've got to do something that says "Look at me!" Hell, people look at fish tanks all day. This is people! Someone's real life an TV, all day long - live. And, you know what? I'm doing it. Pause. The others know the argument is over.
GREG: In that case, we love it.
END CREDITS: 3 EXT. POOL HALL - DAY A BUS passes. On the bus is an ad. It says, "Would you like to star in your own TV show? Call Real TV ( and a phone number ) Coming ( and a date )."
ED: I want to congratulate Kevin and Tracy on their engagement. I knew you guys were meant for each other from the moment Tracy told us she was pregnant.
TRACY: You asshole! Everyone else is cracking up.
ED: ( innocently ) What? What did I say?
TRACY: My mother's going to see this!
ED: Look at this people are getting married, they're getting married.
JOHN: Look at this people are getting married, they're getting married.
ED: You said that.
JOHN: We're falling behind. Ed waves dismissively.
ED: Tell me.
JOHN: We're the guys who clean up after the parade.
ED: I'm gonna stick this right in your I was at this comedy club last week and this comedian says "If you're over thirty and your job requires you to wear a name tag, you screwed up your life." And I'm laughing and then I realize I wear a nametag.
JOHN: I was at this comedy club last week and this comedian says "If you're over thirty and your job requires you to wear a name tag, you screwed up your life." And I'm laughing and then I realize I wear a nametag.
ED: So do I. So what? I'm doing all right.
JOHN: Your brother's here.
RAY: What's up?
ED: Where were you?
RAY: ( reluctantly ) I was. having dinner with Shari and her parents.
RAY: I'm telling you, it's closing in on me. All of a sudden it's like a thing, it's a whole What do you mean all of a sudden? You've been going with her six months.
ED: What do you mean all of a sudden? You've been going with her six months.
RAY: I know. I mean I'm sitting there and her father's asking me about my "career prospects" and I'm playing "Risk," with her kid brother, Leon and at dinner the dog's sniffing at my balls at least I hope it was the dog. 'Cause her mother disappeared for a while. They LAUGH.
ED: You know, those are for everybody. Ray waves dismissively, then gets an idea.
RAY: ( to Shari ) Show them that thing you can do. ( to the others ) This is great. I just found out she can do this, her brother told me. ( to Shari ) Come on.
SHARI: ( thinks it's stupid ) I don't -
RAY: Come on. She hesitates, but she really doesn't mind. Slightly, amused she takes her FIST and fits it completely INTO her MOUTH.
ED: Whoa!! Oh! Ray is cracking up.
RAY: Is that unbelievable? She removes her hand.
SHARI: And that concludes today's show. This is where you go around and collect the money. Ed LAUGHS. Ray gives her a KISS. Shari's roommate RITA sits down.
RITA: You guys know my roommate, Rita. They do, vaguely.
SHARI: You guys know my roommate, Rita. They do, vaguely.
ED: What's going on over there?
RITA: Everybody's making audition tapes for that Real TV Oh, that thing. Yeah. Did you hear about this?
JOHN: Oh, that thing. Yeah. Did you hear about this?
ED: ( not sure ) Yeah, what - they put some schmuck on TV all day long or something?
RAY: You know, that would be like a great That! Being that guy. Being the guy they watch.
ED: That! Being that guy. Being the guy they watch.
RAY: That! Being that guy. Being the guy they watch.
ED: What are you drunk?
RAY: Yeah, but let's stay on one subject. Whoever that person is is going to be famous. They'll be able to get whatever they want. They'll . trust me, this is my What is?!
ED: What is?!
RAY: Show business.
ED: You're in show business?
RAY: Yeah. I service video equipment.
ED: That's like. those people stitching Nikes in Panama saying they're in the NBA.
RAY: ( insulted ) I'm not stitching Nikes in Panama! . Bedwetter!
ED: I'm making a tape.
RAY: I'm making a tape.
ED: We're excited.
ED: So Ray met the family.
SHARI: I hear the dog really liked him.
ED: I hear the dog really liked him.
SHARI: Oh, the whole family loved him. Of course, they loved the last guy I went out with, and he strung me along for three years and dumped Really? You see, to me, you shouldn't have any trouble with men. There should be, like, a line behind you. She takes Ed's beer.
ED: Really? You see, to me, you shouldn't have any trouble with men. There should be, like, a line behind you. She takes Ed's beer.
SHARI: You shouldn't drink. They LAUGH.
ED: Shari wrings out her arm and picks up her beer.
SHARI: ( continuing a previous conversation ) And, you know, every guy I ever broke up with, the minute it was over, I could tell you what went wrong, how it went wrong, why it had to go wrong. but when I'm in it. lost. I'm like a love coroner. Bring me the corpse, I'11 tell you what killed it. But how to prevent it? Lost. Ed LAUGHS.
ED: Ray's on. They walk over.
RAY: ( to camera ) Hi. I'm Ray Pekurney. I'm from Paramus, New Jersey.
ED: Hello I'm Ed. He starts to sniff.
MOTHER: Oh for Put those Oh God. She grabs the boxes from them. The boxes are ripped more than she thought and candy goes flying all over. She bends to pick it up. Ed appears. He works here.
ED: ( to the Mom ) We'11 take care of it. Someone arrives with a broom.
ED: Lou, can I talk to you a second? Lou seems like he'd prefer to avoid this.
LOU: Um, yeah, I was gonna .
ED: What's the deal? Did anybody make a decision -
LOU: Ed, look, uh. you're not getting the job. They're gonna transfer someone from another store to manage this store when I leave to manage the new store. I'm sorry.
ED: Oh, Christ. Did you go to bat for I batted!
LOU: I batted!
ED: You batted or you bunted?
LOU: Hey. I went as far as I felt comfortable. I mean, you know, let's face it you come and go here as you please. You work when you feel like it you know, Bruce Springsteen's birthday is not a legal holiday.
ED: Well, then I'm quitting.
LOU: Ed, come on. What's that gonna do? You're gonna bring Blockbuster to their knees. Let me recommend a movie to you. It's called "Get your shit together before it's too late."
ED: ( wise-ass ) Who's in it?
CLERK: Ed, telephone. Ed goes to the phone.
ED: ( into the phone ) Yeah. Are you serious? . Come on, no kidding, who is this? . Holy shit!
ED: I had one year of college. And then one year of junior college.
ED: Oh, see, studying would've been a huge help. Where were you, then? They LAUGH.
ED: Well, there's Ray, my brother. He's. ambitious. Like a few years ago, he started this mobile dog-grooming business. But, like, out of his Camry. He had this bathtub in his trunk - he's throwing the dogs in there, they're fighting and splashing, then he'd slam the trunk down, let 'em run around inside screaming getting all wet. then he'd use the car exhaust to dry'em. Ah, Ray. he just can't get a 11B INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - LATER My sister Marcia, I mean she can't get a break. About seven years ago she falls in love with this Vietnamese guy who wants to marry her so he can stay in the country. So they get married, they have a kid, he gets his citizenship, immediately divorces my sister and marries this Vietnamese woman who, he was probably already married to all along. She can pick 'em. She's got a nice little boy, though. My nephew, Andy.
ED: My sister Marcia, I mean she can't get a break. About seven years ago she falls in love with this Vietnamese guy who wants to marry her so he can stay in the country. So they get married, they have a kid, he gets his citizenship, immediately divorces my sister and marries this Vietnamese woman who, he was probably already married to all along. She can pick 'em. She's got a nice little boy, though. My nephew, Andy.
ED: My Mom's okay. Kinda. I knew a guy who hated his mother - Stuey Shwam. He hated his mother so much, he had his belly button 11D INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - LATER No, I've never been married. The interviewer seems to be waiting for him to elaborate. He doesn't. He shrugs that's it.
ED: No, I've never been married. The interviewer seems to be waiting for him to elaborate. He doesn't. He shrugs that's it.
ED: Oh, my father -what an asshole. When I was twelve, my mother needed a hysterectomy my father ran off with her nurse! And that's the last I heard of him.
ED: Al, my stepfather he's opinionated. And you have to listen because he's like in a 11G INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - LATER I like my job I mean I'm doing all right. I'm not sure how long I want to stay there, you know. I mean, I'm thirty-one. I'm not sure I want to be a video store clerk when I'm forty. Of course, I didn't expect to be doing it 'til I was thirty-one, either. But. you know I'm. keeping my options open. Anything comes along, I'm ready to pounce.
ED: I like my job I mean I'm doing all right. I'm not sure how long I want to stay there, you know. I mean, I'm thirty-one. I'm not sure I want to be a video store clerk when I'm forty. Of course, I didn't expect to be doing it 'til I was thirty-one, either. But. you know I'm. keeping my options open. Anything comes along, I'm ready to pounce.
ED: A dream? Of course I have a dream I just don't know what the hell it is. Ed's image freezes, while he has a funny-cute expression on his face. PULL BACK TO REVEAL a TV in a conference room with Ed's frozen image on it. Cynthia is there with her bosses, the people who run the network that owns Real TV. The top man is MR. SCHARLACH. His deputies are MS. SEAVER and MR. McILVAINE. This is not the same place where we met Cynthia and her staff. This is richer, more corporate and formal.
CYNTHIA: He's who we want to go with.
SCHARLACH: ( doubtfully ) This guy.
CYNTHIA: I polled my staff. The men say they'd hang around with him and the women say he's fuckable. And one of the men said he's fuckable.
SCHARLACH: I'm not sure about the entire concept. Cynthia is frustrated.
CYNTHIA: Look it's not like we're burning up the airwaves now. We're running neck-and-neck with The Gardening Channel. If people just tune in to this twice a day for five minutes, we're a hit. Plus we can sell advertising every second, running at the bottom of the screen. and the beauty is this guy doesn't even have to be good. I mean if he's good, great. But if he winds up making an ass of himself, better. How is that better?
CYNTHIA: Come on. People cannot turn away from an accident. You drive by, you say "Ooh, I hope there's not a head lying in the road" but you look ! See, nobody in America wants to be nobody. This guy wants to be famous. So, basically, the deal is he agrees to drive down the highway a hundred miles an hour blindfolded and we get to see if his head winds up rolling down the highway. Fun for the whole family. So let's do it. She stops, waiting for approval.
SCHARLACH: ( coldly ) Good luck. Ed's RE-STOCKING the SHELVES He gets goosed from behind
ED: ( goosed ) Ed DROPS the BOXES. Ray is there with Shari.
RAY: I got your message. Way to go!
ED: Hi, Shari. Let's go in the stockroom.
RAY: So when do you start?
ED: I . I'm not gonna do it.
RAY: Look there's a million ways to humiliate yourself - I gotta think of a new way? I mean, it's all day! Every minute. Id be like a monkey at the zoo. I just.
ED: Look there's a million ways to humiliate yourself - I gotta think of a new way? I mean, it's all day! Every minute. Id be like a monkey at the zoo. I just.
RAY: ( disgusted ) Oh man! They couldn't pick me! They had to pick He slaps a tape off a shelf.
ED: You would do this? You would In a second! In a hot second. Let me ask you something
RAY: In a second! In a hot second. Let me ask you something
ED: Why do you do that?
RAY: Whenever you ask me something why do you always say "Let me ask you something?" Why don't you just ask me?
ED: Whenever you ask me something why do you always say "Let me ask you something?" Why don't you just ask me?
RAY: ( impatiently ) All right. Let me ask you something. are you happy like this?
ED: I'm doing all right.
RAY: Oh Yeah? What's your master plan here? Shari enters, curious about the yelling. She stands there quietly, unnoticed by the guys.
ED: Screw off.
RAY: How many opportunities are you going to get in your life?
ED: I don't know.
RAY: That's right. You don't know. Doors don't fly open for guys like us.
ED: Hey. You know we're not the same. I got a good life, this job suits me. I come and go when I please
RAY: Oh, don't bullshit a bullshitter. If you're happy like this you're an idiot, and you're not an idiot. Ed turns and sees Shari. She's self-conscious. She feels like she's been caught eavesdropping.
SHARI: Oh. I I heard Ray yelling. 1 didn't mean to
RAY: ( to Ed ) Give me a chance. I'm begging you. I need a break. Look, I'11 cover your ass. I'11 ride shotgun. Just bring those cameras over to me and I'11 make something happen for both of us. I swear. Come on, Eddie All right.
ED: All right.
RAY: Ray lifts Ed up. Ray kisses Ed.
ED: Ray lifts Ed up. Ray kisses Ed.
RAY: ( to Shari ) Is this guy a brother?!
AL: What happens when you go to the bathroom? Do they go in with you? Ed, Ray, Al, JEANETTE and MARCIA. Al is in a WHEELCHAIR and has an oxygen mask connected to a tank. He periodically takes a hit of oxygen. He's a little short of breath, but loves to talk. Jeanette is Ed's mother about sixty. Marcia is a little older than Ed.
ED: No. The bathroom is off limits -and when I go to sleep they go to other programming. Unless I get up. Then they go back on the air. Unless I get up to go to the bathroom, I guess, then -
AL: What ifyou're vomiting?
ED: ( amazed by the question ) What if I'm vomiting?
AL: Do they show it?
ED: I guess I don't it's all in the contract. There's this million-page contract
RAY: Look, can we all just sign the releases so we can get on with this?
MARCIA: ( accusing, to Ed ) What happened? You described this "crazy-kooky" family who'd be a million laughs on TV?
ED: No! I barely even mentioned -it's just that, my friends, the people at work, whoever I'm regularly in contact with they want releases from.
MARCIA: ( angrily ) They're gonna mock our foibles.
ED: Our what?
MARCIA: Our foibles, our foibles!
RAY: We don't have foibles.
MARCIA: Everyone has foibles. Then the whole country sees them on TV and mocks them. Then we have. mocked foibles.
JEANTTE: Eddie, please don't let them mock our foibles.
ED: ( losing it ) Stop saying foibles!
MARCIA: Look, my life is not so great, that I want it shown on television. And neither is yours.
RAY: That's the point this could change things.
MARCIA: For instance. me and my friend Bucky are buying out my boss. His equipment, trucks, client list, the whole shmear.
RAY: For instance. me and my friend Bucky are buying out my boss. His equipment, trucks, client list, the whole shmear.
MARCIA: ( points to Ed ) What does that have to do with. ?
RAY: If they keep Ed on for one full month, he gets a balloon payment. Ed nods. I borrow against that now, at the bank. Buy the business. And Ed becomes a silent partner. Now here's the beauty part. While we're on TV I plug the shit out of the business. Free advertising.
AL: How about sex? A STUNNED pause. They all look at Al.
ED: I'11 have to pass, Al. And it's not an age thing
AL: No! Do they show you having sex?
ED: No. Kissing and hugging, okay, but if it's actual sex they have to cut away.
AL: At what point?
ED: At the point I don't Look you'd be on TV maybe one or two times each. I'11 try to avoid I'11 go out of my way to avoid, getting together with you. Believe me. WE HEAR: A loud drilling sound.
SHARI: Are you sure about this?
ED: Hey, believe me -1 know I've got a great chance of making a fool of myself, here.
SHARI: Why do it?
ED: I saw this show once. It was about logging. I was home sick, there was nothing else on. Do you know how they break up really bad log jams? You know, when they're really tangled. ?
SHARI: Cream rinse?
ED: ( laughs ) So maybe this is my dynamite.
SHARI: So maybe this is my dynamite.
ED: So maybe this is my dynamite.
SHARI: Dynamite is dangerous.
CYNTHIA: Ed, can I see you a second.
ED: ( to Shari ) Excuse me.
CYNTHIA: Okay, so you understand? We're installing a permanent camera in your bedroom, one in the kitchen, one in the living room, plus, of course, there'll always be a couple of steady-cams following you.
ED: ( overwhelmed ) I want you to take this. She gives him a card.
CYNTHIA: I want you to take this. She gives him a card.
ED: ( barely listening ) Um, yeah thanks. Ed looks kind of overwhelmed. She doesn't like this.
CYNTHIA: Now look. Don't freeze up on me. I picked you because you had kind of a relaxed, go-with-the-flow quality. You're not going to lose that, are you?
ED: No, uh.
CYNTHIA: I bet my career on you. You'd better be good.
ED: ( annoyed ) Don't say that. That's like. telling a guy before you have sex you'd better be good. You don't do I do. Ed reacts.
CYNTHIA: I do. Ed reacts.
ED: 16 INT. ED'S BEDROOM - NIGHT He's in bed, watching TV. The news is on. He glances up at one of the cameras. On the news, they go to a story about him.
ENTERTAINMENT REPORTER: Tomorrow morning, the cable channel known as Real TV, begins broadcasting one of the most heavily promoted concepts in the history of cable television. In an experiment that they say will last at least a month. They're going to follow live - every waking minute of a thirty-one year old video store clerk from Paramus New Jersey. The Real TV press release on this promises that none of it will be scripted, none of it will be edited and in my opinion, none of it will be interesting. we're all just supposed to sit in front of our TV's and watch this guy. live.
ANCHOR: ( to the Entertainment Reporter ) What would be the interest here? What would. get people to tune in?
ENTERTAINMENT REPORTER: Betas me.
SIDEKICK: I don't know. I might check it out.
ANCHOR: Well, Len's here to check out sports. Len, would you watch this video clerk?
LEN: I'd sooner watch soccer. They all CRUCKLE.
TV SCREEN: Speaking of disasters, at the Meadowlands tonight. The set goes off. Ed, once again, stares up at the camera.
LEN: Speaking of disasters, at the Meadowlands tonight. The set goes off. Ed, once again, stares up at the camera.
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: Here we go. Ten-nine-eight-seven-
KEITH: ( mock cheerful ) Well, we're off to a great start. NOTE: The camera operators will change in shifts. We'11 see about four regulars over the course of the film. The one we will see most often is shooting Ed right now. His name is
ED: Oh, great. He turns to the camera and seems about to offer an excuse for his appearance, but, then, just moves on.
GREG: ( to Cynthia ) Start clearing a place for your Emmy.
ED: ( nervously ) Same people like to put the milk in first and then the cereal. I like to put in the milk first - I mean the cereal first and then the milk. Yeah, that's it. Now, watch this. He takes a KNIFE and a BANANA. He peels the banana. He holds the knife, blade up, over the cereal and chops down on it with the banana, several times, rapidly, slicing it into the cereal. He's proud of this.
JEANETTE: ( being positive ) So far.
KEITH: Somebody shoot me.
CYNTHIA: Get him out of the house! I want him moving!
DIRECTOR: ( on the phone ) Hey, I want him dead, but what can I do.
ANGLE ON: CAMERA OPERATORS. They're signaling Ed to get out.
ED: What. You want me to swim?
DIRECTOR: Oh God. Ed gets it.
ED: Oh, out? You want me to go out.
ED: ( to the camera ) Best pizza in New Jersey. As he walks down the street, PEOPLE call out "Hey Ed!" People in windows show him that they're watching him at that exact The camera shoots some of the people in the windows. They see themselves on TV and they go wild. Ed also is confronted by GUYS grabbing their crotches mockingly, calling out things like "Hey, Ed, holding your own?" or "Hey, Ed, howls the grand ballroom." Ed is slightly chagrined by all this, but handles it with good grace. He seems to be loosening up.
ED: Hey, Lou.
LOU: ( stiffly ) Welcome to work, Ed. He shakes Ed's hand and smiles at the camera. He WAVES a little. The BROOM GUY crosses, staring transfixed at the camera. He blocks Ed and Lou. He FREEZES, then panics. He tries to get out of the way and trips over his broom. He tumbles face-first into the camera lens, hurting himself. ANGLE ON ED, observing.
ED: ( mutters ) Oh, Jesus, I'm dying.
DIRECTOR: Carlos, give him some air, give him some room. Use a longer lens. We'11 mostly go with the stationary cameras in here. Less intrusive. Have any of you thought about your next career?
HUSBAND: Why are we watching this?
WIFE: ( a little guilty ) No reason. just. I just want to see what happens.
HUSBAND: Nothing's gonna happen. He's just. Oh, come on, they wouldn't put it on if nothing was gonna happen. He changes the channel. She changes it back. He doesn't get it at all. RAPID CUTS of VARIOUS PEOPLE around America, watching A couple, a young guy, a woman alone ending with a few college-age girls in what appears to be a dorm room. ONE GIRL is watching intently. Her roommates are mostly just hanging around not really watching.
WIFE: Oh, come on, they wouldn't put it on if nothing was gonna happen. He changes the channel. She changes it back. He doesn't get it at all. RAPID CUTS of VARIOUS PEOPLE around America, watching A couple, a young guy, a woman alone ending with a few college-age girls in what appears to be a dorm room. ONE GIRL is watching intently. Her roommates are mostly just hanging around not really watching.
COLLEGE GIRL: I think he's cute. one of her roommates glances over to see what she's so excited 41 EXT. STREET - NIGHT Ed is walking. He passes the little pizza place he touted earlier. There's a LINE out into the street. The STOREOWNER is working hard - - deliriously happy. Ed passes, oblivious to what he's created.
TOENAILS: Some guys work from the big toe down to the little toe. Not me. I save the big one for last. That's the one I really enjoy. It's thick, it's big, it's a challenge. Did you ever see old people's nails?
ED: Some guys work from the big toe down to the little toe. Not me. I save the big one for last. That's the one I really enjoy. It's thick, it's big, it's a challenge. Did you ever see old people's nails?
RAY: This is not working. Come to me!
CYNTHIA: ( into phone ) No, I haven't seen the spot ( she winces ) As she talks, she tries to LIGHT a CIGARETTE. She's shaking too much to use her lighter.
BARTENDER: The winner. Dashing Danny. Ed wins. MONEY changes hands.
ED: Next round's on me. One of the cameras is very close to John. He's very SELFCONSCIOUS. He doesn't look where he's walking. He trips. PEOPLE LAUGH.
ED: ( off-hand joke ) Polish acrobat.
RAY: ( loudly ) Hey. Check this out. ( to the cameramen ) Look at this. Ray TAKES OUT a big stack of QUARTERS and sets them on the bar next to a SHOT GLASS
DIRECTOR: Go with the desperate brother.
ED: Whoa, God bless Ray. First time I'm off-camera in two days. This is hard, you know? I'm, like, exhausted.
SHARI: ( calmly ) He did that at my parents' house.
RAY: ( selling hard to the camera ) Okay, I just wanted to get your attention. My name is Ray and my friend Bucky and I design video systems. You've got an office or a big home, we'11 come out there design you an entire system.
ED: See, they should've picked him. Look how comfortable he is out there.
SHARI: He is so wound up. He bought all new clothes for this. He flips the BAR STOOL and catches it. He accepts the plaudits of the crowd. He returns to Ed and Shari. So do the cameras. Ray is Whew! 1 am kicking hairy ass! Ray is still full of energy.
RAY: Whew! 1 am kicking hairy ass! Ray is still full of energy.
ED: ( worried ) No. What happened?
RAY: ( to the camera ) That's our sister. ( to Ed ) She's got a new boyfriend.
JEANETTE: BACK TO BAR
RAY: He's living with her!
ED: ( camera-conscious ) Ray, maybe this isn't .
RAY: No, this is great. You'll love this. He's a singer.
ED: Marcia's living with a singer?
RAY: Yeah. You know, piano bars. plays the piano and sings. That's how they met.
SHARI: He sang to her and they fell in No! Some drunk hit him over the head with his snifter you know, that thing they keep on the piano for tips and Marcia yanked a big hunk of glass out of his head.
RAY: ( enjoying this ) No! Some drunk hit him over the head with his snifter you know, that thing they keep on the piano for tips and Marcia yanked a big hunk of glass out of his head. ( cracks up, pounds the table )
RAY: I mean my question is what was she doing in a bar in the first place?
ED: She's an alcoholic, for Christ's sake.
RAY: She's an alcoholic, for Christ's sake.
ED: Oh, Jesus. Marcia, watching, HORRIFIED.
RAY: Remember the last guy she got involved with? What was his name?
ED: What's the dif
RAY: ( to Shari ) She spent six months dating a criminal
ED: ( to Shari ) She didn't know he was a criminal. They had a relationship. They
RAY: "Quick pull off the highway" is not a relationship. Oh man, I gotta pee. He KISSES Shari. She COVERS her FACE with her hand.
ED: ( to Ed ) While I'm gone, tell them about our cousin Lenny who's gay. We knew from when he was five. He minces off' effeminately, to the bathroom, LAUGHING. It's like a hurricane has just passed through. Everyone is sitting,
RAY: ( to Ed ) While I'm gone, tell them about our cousin Lenny who's gay. We knew from when he was five. He minces off' effeminately, to the bathroom, LAUGHING. It's like a hurricane has just passed through. Everyone is sitting,
ED: You do though, you look great.
SHARI: No, no, I as soon as you came in tonight I said to John, "Boy Shari looks beautiful." I said it on TV so you can ask anybody who saw it. She LAUGHS. They smile at each other. They make intermittent eye-contact a little self-consciously. Ed finally looks somewhere else and Shari, for just a moment, stares right at him. PULL BACK to TWO GUYS, watching this on TV in a bar more of a neighborhood bar.
ED: No, no, I as soon as you came in tonight I said to John, "Boy Shari looks beautiful." I said it on TV so you can ask anybody who saw it. She LAUGHS. They smile at each other. They make intermittent eye-contact a little self-consciously. Ed finally looks somewhere else and Shari, for just a moment, stares right at him. PULL BACK to TWO GUYS, watching this on TV in a bar more of a neighborhood bar.
TAD: Did you see that?
BARRY: Her. That look. She likes the Ed guy better than she likes the You're nuts.
TAD: Her. That look. She likes the Ed guy better than she likes the You're nuts.
BARRY: You're nuts.
TAD: Okay, I'm nuts.
A BEDROOM: The COUPLE we met earlier are in bed, the wife is holding the
HUSBAND: Give me the remote.
WIFE: Just a few more minutes. Read your book.
FIRST GUY: What do you like about it? I don't understand.
SECOND GUY: I don't know it just it's I don't know. Just let me watch.
"DAY THREE": The ALARM goes off. Ed starts to scratch his balls, but stops halfway down. He WINKS at the camera and starts his day.
ED: . my "Polish acrobat" remark was ill-considered. Although, I meant no harm, I should have recognized that such stigmatizing remarks bring pain and anguish to. He's having trouble reading the next word.
HYGIENIST: ( near hysterics ) Can I have some room please?!
ED: ( talking with the suction in his mouth ) Gi hu roo.
MODERATOR: Let's change topics for a moment. Does anybody have a viewpoint on something going on now called "Ed
CYNTHIA: Choke to death, you boring 58 INT. EWS BEDROOM - NIGHT Ed is sitting up in bed, wearing shorts and a tee-shirt, eating directly out of a cereal box.
TERRY: The audience likes you when you're moving.
ALICE: Yes. Try not to stay in one place too long. Get outside as much as you can.
KEITH: Also, we have some notions. Have you thought about becoming a Big Or coaching a Little League team?
GREG: Or coaching a Little League team?
FELICIA: How about a date?
ED: Are you asking me?
FELICIA: No, I mean.
KEITH: It's just, the ratings are still LONG PAUSE Are you going to cancel me?
LONG PAUSE: ( nervously ) Are you going to cancel me?
ED: ( nervously ) Are you going to cancel me?
CYNTHIA: Let's not worry about that vet.
ALICE: You're testing well.
FELICIA: There's another problem.
GREG: It's . Ray.
ED: What about Ray?
GREG: Well, the walrus impression - delightful as it was is just not wowing the audience. This is some audience research. He hands Ed a PRINTOUT. Ed doesn't know how to interpret the What does this mean?
ED: What does this mean?
FELICIA: It means they hate his freaking guts. It means if he were on fire they wouldn't put him out.
ED: He's just . trying a little too Ed, the audience can smell the desperation coming through the Could you. see him a little less often?
CYNTHIA: Ed, the audience can smell the desperation coming through the Could you. see him a little less often?
TERRY: Could you. see him a little less often?
ED: How much less?
FELICIA: Never would be plenty.
ED: I can't do that to him. He's pushing a little too hard - but. I just can't do that to He'11 be fine.
SILENCE: ED ( CONT'D ) He'11 be fine.
"DAY FIVE": Ed is driving slowly on a busy street. Suddenly an EIGHTEEN YEAR-OLD BOY lands heavily on Ed's windshield. Ed is badly startled. He can't see. He swerves and stops. The boy is not hurt. He's banging on the windshield, waving at the camera. Ed, furious, gets out.
ED: What the ?!
BOY: I'm on TV! I'm on TV! Ed just stares in disbelief.
GUY: Ed! Your show stinks! The Guy LAUGHS like he really got in a good one. Ed ignores him. TWO TEENAGERS run in, one has a camera and quickly snaps a picture of Ed and the other Guy. Merrily, they shake his hand and run off, whooping. There are PEOPLE who trail along. Many of them will show up again and again, throughout the movie, following Ed. Some of them will look mentally or emotionally impaired.
ED: ( to the camera ) This is Ray's apartment. Ray's got a big-screen TV and the Knicks are playing in L.A. tonight, so sometimes I come over after I work late and we watch the game here. He makes funny comments. He's really a good guy. He just.
ED: It's me, Ed. The door opens a crack, revealing Ray in a bathrobe. Ray's look is unwelcoming.
RAY: You watching the ballgame?
ED: You watching the ballgame?
RAY: Uh, no, uh I'm a little tired. I fell asleep.
ED: Oh. All right. I'11 watch at home, then.
RAY: WOMAN ( O.C. ) Ray, where do you keep the Oh, is Shari here? Why didn't you just say so? Why are you giving me a song-and-dance about being tired?
ED: Oh, is Shari here? Why didn't you just say so? Why are you giving me a song-and-dance about being tired?
ED: Ray looks pained. Ed realizes what's happening and freezes Ray's phone RINGS.
RAY: Oh shit. He turns to answer his phone, allowing the door to swing open a little. Ed can see into the kitchen. He sees a WOMAN, wearing just panties, facing away from him, searching for Hello. Shari, hi. Oh no! . Oh God!
RAY: ( into phone ) Hello. Shari, hi. Oh no! . Oh God!
ED: ( to the camera ) We'd better go. RAPID CUTS of VIEWERS loving this, some screaming "Don't go!, don't leave, stay" etc.
RAY: ( into phone ) No, honey, it's not what it looks She hangs up on him. He holds his head.
RAY: Oh God . Ed!
RAY: That was Shari. She saw the whole thing on TV
ED: What is this? What's going on, who is that?
RAY: ( embarrassed ) It's the receptionist at one of the places I service video equipment she's very pretty and, you know, she never even talks to me and then today I come in and she's all "I saw you on TV the other night. You were so great . " Next thing I know we're .
ED: Next thing you know! Why didn't you stop?
RAY: Stop? I'm a guy. I don't stop. The woman's supposed to stop. We're the gas, they're the Ray, I finished the Snapple.
RAY: WOMAN ( O.C. ) Is there more?
RAY: In the cabinet, but it's warm. There's ice in the tray. I Talk to her.
ED: I don't even know her. All I know is she likes Snapple.
RAY: No, not her. Shari. Go over there and talk to her
CYNTHIA: Yes! Go! She THROWS SOMETHING at the screen. She PICKS UP the PHONE.
ED: Why me?
RAY: You brought the cameras here!
ED: You brought the girl!
RAY: If I go over to Shari, the camera's going there, too. The Camera Operators are vigorously nodding and mouthing "Yes, Go." Ray is oblivious to this, but Ed picks it up.
ED: If I go over to Shari, the camera's going there, too. The Camera Operators are vigorously nodding and mouthing "Yes, Go." Ray is oblivious to this, but Ed picks it up.
RAY: That's good. She'11 you know control herself. Look. If I go over there, she's just gonna slam the door on me. Just go over and beg her to talk to me, that's all. Please. You owe me for Ed accepts the irony of Ray's attitude without comment
RITA: ( nervously ) Um. Shari knew you were coming over because she saw .
ED: Right, yeah
RITA: ( apologetic ) She really doesn't want you and the camera in here right now.
ED: No, I understand. That's - where is she, is she all right? Rita isn't sure how much she should reveal.
RITA: I . gave her a drink. I thought it . but she's not much of a drinker, so it's made her a little. belligerent. Shari appears in the doorway over Rita's shoulder. she's holding a liquor bottle and she's a little drunk.
SHARI: What do you want?!
ED: ( awkward ) Shari, I'm just really sorry. Look, I know this is. unbelievably awkward, but if I could come in for like a second and you know just say. two words, then. Shari indicates with her head, that Ed can come in. Ed and Carlos enter. Rita shuts the door. Shari crosses to a couch. Ed indicates for Carlos to give them some distance.
DIRECTOR: Don't lose them, Carlos. This is gold. Stay out of their way, but get everything.
RITA: I'm gonna go to bed. You okay? Shari shrugs.
ED: Shari, Ray feels
SHARI: ( starting to cry ) Don't defend that horse's ass to I'm not. I'm not. I'm just Look you know, in a way, it's good. He got this out of his system now and he knows it's not worth it and, you know, someday if you guys got married or something
ED: I'm not. I'm not. I'm just Look you know, in a way, it's good. He got this out of his system now and he knows it's not worth it and, you know, someday if you guys got married or something
SHARI: Okay .
ED: Okay .
SHARI: ( poking Ed as she talks ) I've got news for you I never intended to marry him.
ED: Oh. how come?
SHARI: Well, for one thing, he's a bad 72 INT. RAY'S APARTMENT His eyes bulge out and he begins to gasp. RAPID SHOTS of viewers reacting "Whoa!" laughs, etc. The college girls applauding. one of them SCREAMS "Tell it!"
ED: Oh my God.
SHARI: ( directly into the camera ) I mean bad.
ED: Look, not having been there. I just think you're hurt and you're saying this to, you know, get back at him. She starts to cry.
DORM GIRL: Kiss him! Kiss him!
SHARI: She tilts her head forward a little, hesitates, then kisses him, at first warmly, then passionately.
ED: She tilts her head forward a little, hesitates, then kisses him, at first warmly, then passionately.
TAD: I'm nuts, hah?! I knew it! I He dials the phone.
JOHN: Oh, Jesus!
WOMAN: I found the Snapple.
CYNTHIA: Yes! Yes! I win! Scharlach, you schmuck! I am the golden goddess of television! She begins beating her chest, one fist at a time while she SCREAMS in triumph.
SHARI: Oh my God. She looks at Carlos who has now moved closer to them
ED: It's. okay
SHARI: I kissed my boyfriend's brother on television!
ED: Well, when you put it that way.
SHARI: Leave. Go.
ED: Can't we just
SHARI: ( exiting ) All right. Okay. I'11 . see He and Carlos exit. Going through the door, he gives Carlos a little push then quickly steps back inside, slams the door and locks it.
ED: ( exiting ) All right. Okay. I'11 . see He and Carlos exit. Going through the door, he gives Carlos a little push then quickly steps back inside, slams the door and locks it.
DIRECTOR: Stay calm. Shoot the door. We're running sound. And we've got a camera in the street.
SHARI: What are we doing?
ED: I've got to tell you something. I have had a big thing for you for months.
SHARI: Yeah. I mean for months I've been seeing you with Ray you being his girlfriend and I kept wishing you were my girlfriend. But, you know, what could I do?
ED: Yeah. I mean for months I've been seeing you with Ray you being his girlfriend and I kept wishing you were my girlfriend. But, you know, what could I do?
SHARI: Me too. I mean I'm going out with Ray and I'm. thinking about you.
ED: Oh God, this is so weird.
SHARI: Oh God, this is so weird.
ED: Weird? If this happened last month it would've been weird. Now with. the TV and. now it's just too weird. They look at each other. They don't know what to do.
"DAY SIX": This is a fairly old, modest private home. Ed pulls up. He and Carlos get out of the car. Ed hurries up to the front door and enters.
ED: Hi, Al. Al is in his wheelchair and taking periodic hits off an oxygen mask connected to a tank. Al's watching himself on TV.
AL: ( excited ) Look. It's me. He WAVES.
ED: Yeah. I brought you some movies.
AL: Anything good? They LAUGH.
ED: No, I intentionally picked out a lot of crap 'cause I don't like Is Mom here? I gotta talk to She's in the kitchen. I'd yell for her, but I'd die. You had a busy night last night.
AL: She's in the kitchen. I'd yell for her, but I'd die. You had a busy night last night.
ED: ( calls ) Yeah. Ma.
ED: JEANETTE ( O.C. ) Are the TV people with you?
ED: Yeah. The camera guy is here.
ED: Send him? Ma, I can't. it's just come out here. Please, I
ED: Do you want us to come in the No. It's a mess.
ED: Look, Ma, come on out. Really. I need to talk to you. After a pause, Jeanette enters, very camera-conscious.
JEANETTE: Eddie, how could you do it? Your brother's girlfriend.
ED: Hey, he cheated on her.
JEANETTE: He made a mistake.
ED: I don't want to do you know where he is?
JEANETTE: No. Maybe he's watching. Tell him you're sorry. Tell him you'11 stay away from that girl.
ED: No! And that girl has a name.
AL: What do you love her or Come on.
ED: ( embarrassed ) Come on.
AL: ( teasing ) Look at your face. I had a car that color. VARIOUS REACTIONS OF VIEWERS really liking this.
JEANETTE: I know you. This Shari is a passing fancy.
ED: No! I All right, look, if you hear from Ray.. tell him to call me, okay? He KISSES her again.
JEANETTE: I don't know. She's living with that Well, who knows? Maybe she finally picked a winner this You and Al lived together a few months before you got married after Dad left.
ED: ( trying to make his mother feel better ) Well, who knows? Maybe she finally picked a winner this ( unconvinced ) You and Al lived together a few months before you got married after Dad left.
JEANETTE: ( unconvinced ) You and Al lived together a few months before you got married after Dad left.
ED: You and Al lived together a few months before you got married after Dad left.
JEANETTE: ( looks at the TV ) Oh my God!
ED: I mean, that worked out.
JEANETTE: Oh my God!! She gets in the closet and closes the door.
ED: ( to the camera ) I think we're through here. The Real TV group is there. They're smiling. Cynthia is ON the PHONE
CYNTHIA: ( into phone ) I will. I'11 tell them. ( hangs up ) That was Scharlach. All of you, scrub your asses. He's coming over to kiss them. They all WHOOP and LAUGH.
SHARI: ( into phone ) Um, I'd like to get a new phone number, please. Because I'm getting calls from every nut case in America. Right, unlisted. ( she holds )
RITA: Aren't you excited? He said he loved you on television!
SHARI: He didn't say it. His stepfather said it.
RITA: ( joking ) Well, the stepfather's cute. Seriously, how do you feel about I think he's great. He just makes me feel. oh, I'm really gonna get hurt, this time - Hello .
SHARI: I think he's great. He just makes me feel. oh, I'm really gonna get hurt, this time - Hello .
TAD: I'11 tell you something else. The old guy in the wheelchair? The stepfather? They're gonna have him die.
BARRY: What do you mean "they're gonna have him die?"
TAD: You know, for a tearjerker. The audience falls in love with this loveable old geezer in a wheelchair and then he dies, it's . They know what they're This is real, Bananahead!
BARRY: This is real, Bananahead!
TAD: So if it's a show and they have a guy die that's writing, but if it's real and they have a guy die that's murder.
BARRY: So if it's a show and they have a guy die that's writing, but if it's real and they have a guy die that's murder.
RAY: Ed stops.
ED: . Ray?
RAY: Oh, man, I've been trying to call I know.
ED: Oh, man, I've been trying to call I know.
RAY: I know.
ED: Look, we gotta talk.
RAY: Save it. A GUY in a car appears and points at Ray.
GUY: Hey, you're that French guy on TV.
RAY: French guy?
GUY: Monsieur Bad-a-lay. The guy drives away. Ray is steaming.
RAY: Let me just do what I came here to do. Ed thinks he means to fight. Ed tries to calm him.
ED: What are we gonna fight? Ray, please, listen to me
RAY: ( beckoning ) CASSIE, a woman about Ray's age, steps forward. She's slightly Go ahead. Ray points Cassie to the camera.
CASSIE: This is really hard.
RAY: You promised me.
CASSIE: ( to the camera ) I went out with Ray a few years ago for. a couple of months. And we. were intimate. And. he's really not as bad as that girl said he was. Ray nods.
RAY: That's enough. Ed is amazed that Ray would do this.
ED: Ray, come an Ray leaves, still angry. Cassie lingers.
CASSIE: ( flirting slightly ) So you're Ed. Ray returns and yanks Cassie away with him. Ed still hasn't recovered from the bizarreness he just witnessed. Two girls YELL in unison from across the street.
GIRLS: Ed. we love you!
CYNTHIA: We're not going to be able to come over there for anymore midnight meetings. People are starting to watch your building. The interest level in you is 95A INT. ED'S BEDROOM. Ed's OFF-CAMERA
ED: Soaring is good, right? I mean, that means you're not gonna cancel me, right?
KEITH: ( sotto ) Man, he wants that balloon Ed, why didn't you go over to see Shari today? That's what all our viewers were hoping you'd do.
TERRY: Ed, why didn't you go over to see Shari today? That's what all our viewers were hoping you'd do.
ED: Isn't she great? I mean, maybe just to me, but. I don't know, she's just
TERRY: ( impatiently ) She's great, she's great. Why didn't you go see her?
ED: I wanted to! I was dying to! Is it Ray? The audience hates Ray. Females, 18 to 35
GREG: Is it Ray? The audience hates Ray. Females, 18 to 35
ED: No, I don't need to hear that. Cynthia?
CYNTHIA: Yes, Ed.
ED: Could we just talk alone for a second? I
CYNTHIA: Good idea. Could you all leave us alone for a few minutes? She PANTOMIMES for them to stay in the room, but be quiet. The staff scrape chair legs and feign movement and ad lib "Bye Ed", "See you, buddy" etc. They all stay.
ED: I feel like when I was a kid and my mother sent me to school in orange corduroy pants.
CYNTHIA: ( no clue ) And all the kids stared calling me "Pumpkin Ass." "Hey Pumpkin Ass," for like a year. So, now, I feel like everyone's watching me and, you know, I'm "Pumpkin Ass" again. The staff are stifling giggles.
ED: And all the kids stared calling me "Pumpkin Ass." "Hey Pumpkin Ass," for like a year. So, now, I feel like everyone's watching me and, you know, I'm "Pumpkin Ass" again. The staff are stifling giggles.
CYNTHIA: Can I tell you something? I think you are fantastic. I think you have taken an idea and turned it into something explosive. The staff stifle laughter. One of the guys is doing a jerk-off gesture. Cynthia gives them the finger.
ED: Can I give you one bit of advice? About Shari?
CYNTHIA: Can I give you one bit of advice? About Shari?
ED: A woman wants to be pursued.
CYNTHIA: A woman wants to be pursued.
WOMAN: This is so exciting! A real celebrity delivering my figs.
SHARI: ( uncomfortable ) Sign here, please.
WOMAN: That Ray was a pig. Ed is doll. You latch on to him By the X.
SHARI: By the X.
WOMAN: Some more make-up wouldn't do you any harm. On TV you look a little washed out.
SHARI: What would I actually have to do to get you to sign this?
WOMAN: ( insulted ) Oh, an TV a minute and already an ( annoyed ) By the X. That's were two lines cross forming an X. ANGRILY, the Woman signs and slams the door. She heads back to her truck. She looks up and Ed is there with flowers. The TV cameras are there also. Shari is startled. But she's also glad to see him.
SHARI: ( annoyed ) By the X. That's were two lines cross forming an X. ANGRILY, the Woman signs and slams the door. She heads back to her truck. She looks up and Ed is there with flowers. The TV cameras are there also. Shari is startled. But she's also glad to see him.
SHARI: What are you doing?
ED: I missed you. She's camera-shy.
SHARI: Yeah, well. They both LAUGH.
ED: It's really a tremendous turnoff.
SHARI: You should see the one we wear when it rains.
ED: Sunday night at the Devils game, I'm driving the Zamboni.
SHARI: The what?
ED: You know, the big machine that cleans the ice.
SHARI: Oh yeah.
ED: It's quite an honor. Will you come with me? She looks at the camera.
CYNTHIA'S OFFICE: They tore her dress! .
ED: They tore her dress! .
CYNTHIA: We're going to get you a bodyguard, don't worry. Ed, I have some news for you. We're picking up Ed TV for another That means a balloon payment and a big raise for the second month.
ED: ( excited ) That means a balloon payment and a big raise for the second month.
CYNTHIA: That means a balloon payment and a big raise for the second month.
ED: Stand back I'm about to do my Happy Dance. He does.
ANCHOR: Well, welve had pet rocks, hula hoops, Davy Crockett, Beatle wigs, and leisure suits. But America's latest craze is a guy named Ed. Here with that story is entertainment reporter, Rick Pat, four weeks ago, no one in America had even heard of Ed Pekurny. Today, this thirty-one year-old video store clerk has become something of a national obsession. The words viewers use to describe him are "charming," "natural," and "appealing." And ratings indicate that "Ed TV" is being watched by more people, each day, than any show in the history of cable television.
ENTERTAINMENT REPORTER: Pat, four weeks ago, no one in America had even heard of Ed Pekurny. Today, this thirty-one year-old video store clerk has become something of a national obsession. The words viewers use to describe him are "charming," "natural," and "appealing." And ratings indicate that "Ed TV" is being watched by more people, each day, than any show in the history of cable television.
SCHARLACH: This idea just came to me. I told my staff if people just tune in twice a day for five minutes we're a hit. Sometimes you gotta go with your gut 106 INT. CYNTHIA'S OFFICE She's watching. She's ANGRY.
CYNTHIA: Sure it came to you! Because I brought it to you! You want a gut feeling?! How about a groin feeling?!
ENTERTAINMENT REPORTER: Ed TV has become so popular that when Ed goes to sleep Real TV is running highlights of Ed's day all night. Some viewers have become obsessed with Ed. They wake up when Ed wakes up, they go to sleep when Ed goes to sleep, and in between they try to watch as much of him as possible.
WOMAN #1: ( casually ) Yeah, I watch it. More than I'd like to admit sometimes.
MAN: ( about fifty ) Never. no.
YOUNGER MAN: Honestly? . I try not to go to the bathroom until Ed goes to the bathroom so I won't miss A GUY in an ice cream store.
WOMAN #2: I just kind of leave it an, you know, so it's. there.
YOUNG GUYS: GUY #1 To me, this Shari is like GUY #2 She's not even hot. I mean Ed's a celebrity. If that was me, I'd be dating the goods.
GUY #1: To me, this Shari is like She's not even hot. I mean Ed's a celebrity. If that was me, I'd be dating the goods.
GUY #2: She's not even hot. I mean Ed's a celebrity. If that was me, I'd be dating the goods.
GUY #1: There's something wrong with her. She's definitely not hot.
GUY #2: Not hot. Not.
GOSSIP QUEEN: What's wrong with her! Everytime you look at this chick, it's like she badly needs a Tampax. Ed, you can do better. Shari watching, in horror.
ED: I'11 have. Get this I'11 have the "Ed."
SHARI: I'm stunned. A WOMAN with her young SON approach.
WOMAN: Mr. Pekurny. I'm sorry to bother you. My son would just love to have your autograph.
ED: No problema. You want a picture? The boy nods.
SHARI: ( ironic ) That's lucky.
ED: Saturday, I think we should
ED: This used to be a regular thing. And the worst part, is while she'd be waiting for me to come down to some bar and get her, she'd start up with some guy and say "Wait 'til my brother gets here, he'11 kick your ass." So then I walk in and there's some rhinoceros in a windbreaker who tries to shove me into a shot glass. And Marcia's drunk and screaming "Kick his ass, Ed. Kick his ass." I think this is it.
CUSTOMER: Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. You're the guy on TV.
ED: What was the tip-off? The enormous camera?
CUSTOMER: Watch this. The guy does Ed's "Happy Dance."
ED: Yeah. Keep up the good work. Ed brushes by him. He sees a WOMAN passed out at a table.
ED: Hm? I'm, uh. Why isn't this drunken woman you? He lets go of the woman. Her head bounces on the table.
MARCIA: Cliff is here. He's performing. I wanted you to see him. For a second, Ed doesn't get it. Then.
ED: Oh! Oh okay, now I get it. It's "Star Search." You wanted me here because the camera comes with me.
MARCIA: Ed, he needs a break. You don't know what kind of bad luck he's I can imagine. You said you wanted nothing to do with this. You swore to me. "Don't come near me. Don't bring this into my life."
ED: I can imagine. You said you wanted nothing to do with this. You swore to me. "Don't come near me. Don't bring this into my life."
MARCIA: For God sakes, you said two words about some lousy pizza joint, the guy's a millionaire now. This could be my whole future we're talking about. Hi, I'm Ed's sister.
SHARI: ( politely ) I've heard so much about you.
ED: ( sotto ) I wish my stepfather was here.
SHARI: He could give me some oxygen.
ED: He could give me some oxygen.
BARRY: Oh boy! Here we go! Ed is passionate.
JEANETTE: ( cringing ) BACK TO ED AND SHARI She indicates the camera. Ed tries to allay her fears.
RAY: BACK TO ED AND SHARI She indicates the camera. Ed tries to allay her fears.
SHARI: She indicates the camera. Ed tries to allay her fears.
ED: She indicates the camera. Ed tries to allay her fears.
SHARI: I know, but even if they go away, everybody in America knows what we're doing because. they went So? What do they think we're not kids
ED: So? What do they think we're not kids
SHARI: ( overlapping ) I know, I .
ED: ( overlapping ) Shari, I really like you.
SHARI: ( overlapping ) I really like you too.
ED: .if this . . weren't here. ?
SHARI: . yeah, then, but.
CUTAWAYS: Ed. I think we should stop seeing each other. The guys who said she wasn't hot. They applaud.
ED: Ed. I think we should stop seeing each other. The guys who said she wasn't hot. They applaud.
SHARI: Ed. I think we should stop seeing each other. The guys who said she wasn't hot. They applaud.
A BAR: A very attractive woman ( JILL ) and her friend.
JILL: That girl's an idiot.
ED: What?. Why?
SHARI: ( starting to weep ) I can't take it anymore.
SHARI: ( crying ) I have no privacy. Even now! I'm crying and I can't stop and they won't go away. And now it's going to be another month!
ED: Everybody hates me!
SHARI: Everybody hates me!
ED: No. Who?
SHARI: Look at this. She picks up a N.Y. POST.
ED: ( knows what it is ) A poll. "Is Shari Good Enough for Ed?" Seventy-one per cent said "no." ( crying ) They hate me!
SHARI: A poll. "Is Shari Good Enough for Ed?" Seventy-one per cent said "no." They hate me!
ED: Who cares? I don't ca No. I do care. Shame on everybody. Shame on you! Well, just the seventy-one percent. The other.
SHARI: Exactly. Boy, you're smart. Why are you so mean to her? What did she do to you? "Is she good enough for Ed?" Who the hell am I? Who the hell do you think I should be dating?
ED: Exactly. Boy, you're smart. Why are you so mean to her? What did she do to you? "Is she good enough for Ed?" Who the hell am I? Who the hell do you think I should be dating?
SHARI: There's a list.
ED: ( he looks )
SHARI: He doesn't hear her. He's scanning the list.
ED: 114 INT. DAVID LETTERMAN SHOW ( OR SOMETHING ) Ed is a guest.
DAVE: I'm out here an hour a night and I feel like a dork. You're on every minute! Doesn't it just drive you nuts?
ED: ( cheerfully ) All this fame and the money you're making. Is this going to change you, do you think?
DAVE: All this fame and the money you're making. Is this going to change you, do you think?
ED: God, I hope so.
PRODUCTION ASSISTANT: You've got a ham in there and Dave's book and
ED: Hey, if it's free, it's me. You ready?
JOHN: Yeah. You did good. What's Aah, I wanted Shari to come.
ED: Aah, I wanted Shari to come.
JOHN: Oh so I'm just, what a poor He KISSES John.
ED: ( easily ) ( to the camera ) Honey, if you're watching this is for you.
JOHN: No! Don't Oh, wow.
ED: ANGLE ON JILL IN THE HALLWAY ( We met her earlier in a cutaway. ) She's saying good-bye to a CASTING ASSISTANT.
JOHN: No more calls, we have a Jill looks up, sees Ed and walks right up to him
JILL: SECURITY steps forward.
ED: SECURITY steps forward.
JILL: I'm Jill. I really like your show. I think you're great.
ED: Thanks. That's . Shari, watching this on television.
JILL: You must be John.
JOHN: I'm trying to remember.
JILL: ( to Ed ) Well, I don't want to bother you, I'm just I was here auditioning for a skit. You know, one of those things where Dave goes around town with models and whatever.
ED: Oh, yeah, I love those. Yeah. those are funny.
JILL: Well, it was really nice meeting you and, uh. I'd better get a cab. But she doesn't leave.
ED: Um. They gave me a limo, uh.
JILL: Oh, great! Thanks. I'm just going uptown. She takes his arm and leads him out.
WOMAN: V11 bet he goes out with her. It's like those actors as soon as they get famous Pfft - there goes the wife.
COLLEGE GIRL: He'll never cheat on Shari! The game includes Tad and Barry.
BARRY: You think she really likes him?
TAD: She doesn't give a shit about You know what would be great?
BARRY: You know what would be great?
TAD: If Ray would steal this girl from Ed. That would be great.
BARRY: If Ray would steal this girl from Ed. That would be great.
BARRY: POKER PLAYER #2 If you shut your hole and played cards. Goddam pineapple The same eggheads who, earlier, had no interest in Ed. Now they're all worked up.
ED: This is from a girl named Tawny. this goes in the nude picture pile. Thank you, Tawny. He places it in a large pile. He opens another envelope.
ED: Well. This is creative. This goes in the psychopath pile. The DOORBELL RINGS.
ED: Oh, I hope that's not this guy. He PICKS UP a baseball bat and crosses to the door. He opens the door. A handsome man in his early sixties is there. His name is HANK.
HANK: Ed waits.
ED: Ed waits.
HANK: You don't recognize me.
ED: No. Am I supposed to? Hank shrugs. Ed stares at him, then begins to look a little 121 INT. EWS MOTHER'S HOUSE Jeanette is putting a jar in the refrigerator. She glances at the television. She drops the jar. It SHATTERS.
HANK: It's me, Hank your father. RAPID CUTS of VIEWERS, excited. Many of them reach for the 125 INT. REAL TV OFFICE The Real TV staff react. Cynthia looks over stunned.
ALICE: ( to Cynthia ) Did you do this? Did you find him and get him to
CYNTHIA: No way. Oh, this just keeps getting better.
JEANETTE: I can't believe you're taking his I'm not! I'm just trying to get some facts.
ED: I'm not! I'm just trying to get some facts.
AL: ( to Ed ) Sign this one to Nancy. She's the nurse who handles my urine. Ed signs.
JEANETTE: I told you the facts! He abandoned us those are the So everything he told me yesterday was a lie. Everything. Al takes a loud breath.
ED: So everything he told me yesterday was a lie. Everything. Al takes a loud breath.
JEANTETTE: Yes! . practically
ED: What do you mean practically? Did he really run away or did you throw him out like he says.
REPAIRMAN: I need to replace the coil.
JEANETTE: ( to Ed ) He ran away after I threw him ( to repairman ) How much is a new coil?
REPAIRMAN: A hundred and fifty bucks.
ED: So he was telling the truth you threw him out.
REPAIRMAN: Should I go ahead?
JEANETTE: Yes to me or yes to the coil?
ED: Yes to me or yes to the coil?
JEANETTE: Holy sh
ED: Holy sh
AL: This one to Dr. Bamajian. Maybe he won't make me wait an hour. Ed signs.
JEANETTE: He had girlfriends!
ED: He says
JEANETTE: I don't care what he says. Look, I don't need to relive this. On Whatever happened to Norman Norman Rockwell. He painted magazine covers. Folksy. A mailman, a boy scout, a kid visiting a doctor.
AL: Whatever happened to Norman Norman Rockwell. He painted magazine covers. Folksy. A mailman, a boy scout, a kid visiting a doctor.
ED: Norman Rockwell. He painted magazine covers. Folksy. A mailman, a boy scout, a kid visiting a doctor.
AL: Norman Rockwell. He painted magazine covers. Folksy. A mailman, a boy scout, a kid visiting a doctor.
ED: Yeah, so. ?
AL: They celebrated the common Well, I don't think you can get more common than me, Al.
ED: Well, I don't think you can get more common than me, Al.
AL: No. Only celebrities now. Now, if you put a mailman on the cover of a magazine he'd better have killed someone or no one will buy it. This one to Dr. Rumpley. Jeanette storms back in.
JEANETTE: All right do you want to know the truth? I took you and Marcia and Ray to my sister's on the train for the weekend and you all got chicken pox. So I took you home a day early and there was your father with a woman in our bed. Okay?
ED: Chicken pox? I was six. He didn't leave 'til I was twelve.
JEANETTE: He. apologized, he begged me. He can be very. charming when it suits his purpose.
ED: But what was that whole story about him and a nurse?
JEANETTE: She could've been a nurse.
ED: Could've been a nurse?
JEANETTE: She had white shoes.
ED: So does Grandma. So does Shaquille O'Neal. You told me you had a hysterectomy and he ran off with your nurse.
JEANETTE: What's the difference?
ED: The difference is for twenty years I thought one thing and now it's another thing. Ed nods.
JEANETTE: He was no good. Do you remember how he used to scream at me? You used to cover your ears with dinner rolls.
ED: Wait a minute. I thought you didn't know Al, 'til after Dad Pause. Even the repairman pokes his head out of the Oh my God. You and Al were - and that's why you threw him out.
JEANETTE: He had a woman in my own bed! And how dare you call him "Dad" in front of Al. This is your father. This is who was there for you when you needed Jeanette, you're hurting me.
AL: Jeanette, you're hurting me.
ED: ( on the defensive ) I'm not I didn't Al, you know how I feel about you. Al breathes loudly.
JEANETTE: And what did he come back now Hank! All of a sudden. Because now you're famous and he can get something from you. I don't wan you to become a victim like Not that you're a victim, honey. You're not. Life's just been a little hard on you, sweetie.
ED: Hank! All of a sudden. Because now you're famous and he can get something from you. I don't wan you to become a victim like Not that you're a victim, honey. You're not. Life's just been a little hard on you, sweetie.
JEANETTE: Hank! All of a sudden. Because now you're famous and he can get something from you. I don't wan you to become a victim like Not that you're a victim, honey. You're not. Life's just been a little hard on you, sweetie.
ED: ( to Al ) What do you think. I mean about. him. Should I just. have nothing to do with him? I ( to Ed ) Have I ever said a bad word to you about your father?
AL: ( to Ed ) Have I ever said a bad word to you about your father?
ED: Well, now I will. He was a crazy mean, son-of-a-bitch. Al starts to wheel himself out. Ed looks weary.
AL: Well, now I will. He was a crazy mean, son-of-a-bitch. Al starts to wheel himself out. Ed looks weary.
ED: ( whispering ) Hi. it's me, Ed. It's been two days, I want to see you. No, I won't let them follow me, I'11 sneak out. No it's not allowed, but I'm going for it. I'm on my He takes CLOTHING OUT of the bathroom hamper. until he finds something acceptable.
ED: She looks down the hallway.
SHARI: I tried to tell you over the phone my parents went to Atlantic City.
ED: So my little brother's staying here. I'm sleeping with Rita.
SHARI: So my little brother's staying here. I'm sleeping with Rita.
ED: Oh Je couldn't he sleep with Rita? We'11 all have a good I'm sorry.
SHARI: I'm sorry.
ED: Come on, let's go.
SHARI: 133 INT. ED'S CAR - A FEW MINUTES LATER They get in. They look at each other.
ED: 133 INT. ED'S CAR - A FEW MINUTES LATER They get in. They look at each other.
ED: Do you want to go to a motel?
SHARI: I feel like a criminal or, like we're cheating on someone.
ED: ( nicely ) Just. just relax. Okay? We won't do anything. We'11 just sit here for a while.
SHARI: Come on. Gently he puts his arm around her. At first, she hesitates, but then curls up against him and relaxes.
ED: Come on. Gently he puts his arm around her. At first, she hesitates, but then curls up against him and relaxes.
SHARI: Are you all right?
ED: She lied to me. I mean all my life, she's telling me one story and then. it turns out to be a completely different story. Come to me at some point tell me the truth. No. Not in my house. The truth is a stranger. And this is why Ray and Marcia are the way they are. Marcia gets involved with all these losers and sees no problem with herself - "How do they find me" she says. Ray cheats on you and then blames me for it. I'm the only one in the family who takes any responsibility for himself. Oh, man. Are you all right?
SHARI: ( hesitantly ) Yeah. I saw that girl come on to you at the TV show.
ED: Oh that was. no, I . she just kind of trapped me into giving her a ride. It's you. I want He TOUCHES her. They KISS. Then again. Their hands are roaming. They're hot. They're breathing hard. He's unbuttoning her blouse. Their hands are all over each other. Her blouse comes off. LIGHTS GO ON. They see cameras, shooting at them. Shari SCREAMS and covers her breasts.
SHARI: He TOUCHES her. They KISS. Then again. Their hands are roaming. They're hot. They're breathing hard. He's unbuttoning her blouse. Their hands are all over each other. Her blouse comes off. LIGHTS GO ON. They see cameras, shooting at them. Shari SCREAMS and covers her breasts.
FRAT GUYS: They GYRATE LEWDLY.
SHARI: Get them away from me. She takes PACKAGES OUT OF the TRUCK and THROWS them at the It's not their fault.
ED: It's not their fault.
SHARI: No. It's your fault. She throws a package at him.
ED: What do you want me to do? You want me to quit the show?!
SHARI: No. Could you?
ED: No. If I quit I don't get the balloon payment.
SHARI: The what?
ED: Ray borrowed this whole tub of money against this balloon payment that I don't get if I qu it's too complicated. I Besides.
SHARI: You see how people look at me. Like when they ask for my autograph or say "Hi" to me. It's like I'm a basketball player or a. you know, like I'm Everybody's someone.
ED: You see how people look at me. Like when they ask for my autograph or say "Hi" to me. It's like I'm a basketball player or a. you know, like I'm Everybody's someone.
SHARI: Everybody's someone.
ED: Well, yeah, everybody's someone. But I mean someone they want to be. I mean let's face it, I'm working in the video store, no one's coming in saying "oh, I wish I was that guy. 1 wish was rewinding that huge pile of tapes." At least for a month I'm not just a guy with a name tag. I'm famous. A GUY YELLS from across the street.
GUY: Shari! Nice nipples.
ED: And so are you. GUYS keep YELLING "Shari!" She tries to go after them. Ed holds her back.
SHARI: I don't want to be famous for getting caught with my shirt off. If I'm going to be famous The camera is right in her face. She grabs it.
ED: Come on. He returns the camera. Shari starts for her truck.
SHARI: Look. maybe we just better put us on hold until this is over. She gets in her truck.
ED: Come on! Loosen up. See this is why seventy-one per cent of the people don't like She SLAMS the TRUCK DOOR.
ED: ( to the camera ) I'm gonna watch anything but me. Ed is flipping stations. Something makes him stop.
JOMA: Hey, Ed! I'm coming to get you, man! I'm gonna eat you right up!
ED: How did you get into my The BODYGUARD is pulling her out. REVEAL that Scharlach, McIlvaine, Seaver, Cynthia and Greg are all watching. What is she holding?
GREG: ( calmly ) A pair of Ed's underwear. Oh my God! ON the TAPE, the woman while being forcibly evicted, offers the underwear to Ed. Ed recoils.
ED: No keep it.
WOMAN: I love you! 1 want to marry you! She's hauled out. They stop the tape.
SCHARLACH: See that's television! This other thing, this Jama, that has "stink" written all over it.
GREG: The break-up with Shari was very big. Big ratings.
SEAVER: Only, Cynthia, seriously. Tell Ed not to sneak out anymore.
SCHARLACH: Cynthia . He wants it accomplished.
CYNTHIA: ( dutifully, but a tad resentfully ) I will see that he's properly Now what? What's on the young man's agenda? We don't want to see him sitting around like a lovesick puppy.
SCHARLACH: Now what? What's on the young man's agenda? We don't want to see him sitting around like a lovesick puppy.
GREG: Young males do not want to see Ed get back with Shari.
SCHARLACH: ( impatiently ) Enough with her. That sailed. Could Ed live with two girls?
GREG: You know who the audience is requesting a lot? That girl, Jill, that Ed met at the Letterman show. She really He wants it accomplished.
SCHARLACH: He wants it accomplished.
RITA: ( nervously ) Oh. Ed.
ED: Hi. Is Shari here?
RITA: What is she, at work?
ED: What is she, at work?
RITA: She left.
ED: Well, when will she be back?
RITA: She won't.
ED: What are you talking about?
RITA: She left. She moved. She got Fed-Ex to give her a transfer and she left. She couldn't stand it anymore. We had people, news people, regular people, just sleeping in our hallway, going through our mail, our garbage. I mean it was she couldn't take it anymore. Now I've got to move. I can't afford this place by myself.
ED: I'm sorry. Where'd they send She wouldn't tell me.
RITA: She wouldn't tell me.
ED: Remember when you were interviewing me?
CYNTHIA: You asked me if I had a dream. I said "Sure, I have a dream. I just don't know what it is yet."
ED: You asked me if I had a dream. I said "Sure, I have a dream. I just don't know what it is yet."
CYNTHIA: Great line.
ED: What if Shari's the dream?
CYNTHIA: Ed, do you want my advice?
ED: Yeah, that's why I called. I mean, maybe Fed-Ex would tell me where she moved
CYNTHIA: Leave her be.
ED: You said a woman likes to be Pursued, not harassed. Give it some space. Can I tell you something as a friend? My sister was going with a guy they hit a little rough spot they started seeing other people they got back together and last month they had their third child For what it's worth. OPEN ON ANDY, Ed's half-Asian nephew. He's eight. He's wearing a baseball glove.
CYNTHIA: Pursued, not harassed. Give it some space. Can I tell you something as a friend? My sister was going with a guy they hit a little rough spot they started seeing other people they got back together and last month they had their third child For what it's worth. OPEN ON ANDY, Ed's half-Asian nephew. He's eight. He's wearing a baseball glove.
ANDY: Throw me a high one, Uncle Eddie.
ED: JILL ( 0.C. ) We have to stop meeting like REVEAL JILL, walking a DOG. it takes just a second to recognize her.
ED: REVEAL JILL, walking a DOG. it takes just a second to recognize her.
ANDY: REVEAL the Real TV Staff watching this on television in their office. As Ed and Jill chat in the background.
ALICE: ( to Cynthia ) Did you arrange this?
CYNTHIA: ( points to the TV ) Whose dog is that?
ALICE: ( surprised ) That's your dog. Cynthia doesn't even smile.
MONTAGE: INTERSPERSED IN THE MONTAGE ARE SHOTS OF PEOPLE WATCHING THEM ON TV 1. Ed and Jill going into a chic club ushered in immediately. Here, as in the other times we see her, Jill is comfortable with the situation. She's the opposite of Shari. She poses willingly. She chats easily with paparazzi. She clings to Ed. There's nothing overt or obnoxious about her. She's just comfortable and good at it and always looks great. 2. INTERVIEW with the guys who didn't like Shari.
GUY #1: Way to go, Ed!
4. SHARI: In a new apartment. Watching Ed and Jill on TV. She's very unhappy. She turns it off. 5. Ed and Jill at the nice restaurant he was at with Shari earlier. It looks like he's starting to like her. 6. Ed is refereeing a pro-wrestling match. He counts out the villain who, then, jumps up and chases him out of the ring.
"DAY 47": Ed and Jill are in a HEAVY LIPLOCK. Carlos is right there with the camera. Unlike Shari, Jill seems unself-conscious. She's getting Ed pretty turned-on. SHOTS of VIEWERS, also turned on, especially the men.
JILL: You want to? It's clear what she means. Ed is conflicted. He's clearly Um. It's kind of . He looks for his watch on the wrong wrist, then seems to check all around his body until he discovers it.
ED: Um. It's kind of . He looks for his watch on the wrong wrist, then seems to check all around his body until he discovers it.
JILL: Are you busy tomorrow night?
ED: Why don't you come over. And I'11 make dinner. And you bring a movie. And . We'11 make a night of it . okay?
JILL: Why don't you come over. And I'11 make dinner. And you bring a movie. And . We'11 make a night of it . okay?
ED: ( nervously ) 145 EXT. STREET - DAY Written on the screen "Day 48" Ed is walking, the camera following. He looks tense. People SHOUT "Hey, Ed" "Ed-die" etc.
ED: Oh man.
STREET CHARACTER: Hey, man. This is Haitian Love Juice. You give her this, she be yours. Security grabs him and the vial falls and breaks. The liquid hits the pavement and smokes up.
ED: ( looking at the smoke ) More shouts "Be gentle", "We'11 be watching", "Use a condom" etc. A SCHOOL BUS passes. The KIDS YELL out the window to Ed.
KIDS: ( in unison ) Good luck!
PARTYGOER: He's buying wine!
ED: ( understating ) I'm starting to feel a little Ed carrying his wine enters to APPLAUSE and CHEERS.
JILL: Can I help with anything?
ED: Can I help with anything?
JILL: No. It's going to be about a What is? Oh, dinner! SELF-CONSCIOUSLY. He takes a vegetable, dips it and eats it.
ED: What is? Oh, dinner! SELF-CONSCIOUSLY. He takes a vegetable, dips it and eats it.
JILL: They look at each other. Jill leans forward and kisses him. She puts the tray of vegetables on the counter. They continue to kiss.
ED: They look at each other. Jill leans forward and kisses him. She puts the tray of vegetables on the counter. They continue to kiss.
BOYS: Ed Ed Ed Ed. COLLEGE GIRLS ( same ones as before ).
DIRECTOR: ( slightly panicky ) Someone say the word, how far can we go here?
ED: ( in pain ) Ohh. do you own a cat?
JILL: Ohh. do you own a cat?
ED: Ohh. do you own a cat?
JILL: Yeah. Why? He looks at her apologetically.
BIG LAUGHS: 163 INT. RESTAURANT - DAY Scharlach EATING. He's stunned.
SCHARLACH: REVEAL CYNTHIA
REVEAL CYNTHIA: Take him off the air.
CYNTHIA: Take him off the air.
SCHARLACH: What are you talking about? He's fine. He's out of the hospital already. The ratings are higher than ever.
CYNTHIA: I'm telling you, it's peaked. Ed TV is an over-inflated balloon. Get it off before it explodes all over us. He thinks.
SCHARLACH: With all due respect, Cynthia you're nuts. I'm giving him another month!
CYNTHIA: ( coldly ) Good luck.
"DAY 54": Ed is walking. He's wearing a white, Velcro support around his waist. He's agitated. He's carrying a copy of the New York WE SEE a headline "Ed: She Broke My heart."
ED: Look at this! WE SEE a headline "Ed: She Broke My heart."
ED: She did not! You know what she did?
GUY: Hey Ed! . She was a little too much for you, huh? Must run in the family.
ED: ( angry ) Oh like this guy's ever been with a woman. ( yells ) How about I kick your ass 'til the crack goes the other way? ( to the camera ) All of a sudden, I'm like fair game for everyone. I'm like He stops and looks like he's in shock. He stares in through the display window of a bookstore.
ANGLE ON,: a big DISPLAY of cheap, rushed-out, exploitation books. On the cover we read "My Brother Pissed On Me By Raymond L. Pekurny.11 And there's an old photo of two little boys. ( Ed and Ray )
ED: Oh my He wrote a book?! Ray wrote a book?! He never read a 165 INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT "DAY 58" It's the hallway of a cheap hotel. Ed and the camera come off the elevator. Ed looks at room numbers. He can HEAR the noise from all the rooms. A radio a domestic disturbance a baby crying it's a horror. He KNOCKS ON a door.
"DAY 58": It's the hallway of a cheap hotel. Ed and the camera come off the elevator. Ed looks at room numbers. He can HEAR the noise from all the rooms. A radio a domestic disturbance a baby crying it's a horror. He KNOCKS ON a door.
ED: It's Ed. The door opens REVEALING Ed's father.
HANK: Ed! Come in - They enter.
ED: It could be, if you fixed it up. How did you. ? I mean how does anyone . wind up like this?
HANK: I was in jail.
ED: The whole time? Eighteen years?
HANK: No. Two times.
ED: Check forging.
HANK: Check forging.
ED: Oh, man! So.
HANK: The last two years, I've been a limousine driver, but I don't see well anymore, so.
ED: So you saw me on TV and you said "Hey, let me jump on this."
HANK: I need help. How many times if just one little thing that I needed would've happened, it would've changed everything. If I had a few dollars when an opportunity came along or. the tumblers just never clicked for Ed doesn't know what to say. He's bitter towards Hank, but there's also some empathy.
ED: ( to the camera ) All right. This is my father, I don't know what the hell he can do, but if anyone out there can help him get him a job - I'11 . help you. I'11 . mention your business or . I don't know, we'11 figure it out. ( quickly, to Hank ) I gotta go.
HANK: Ed. I'm sorry.
ED: ( still bitter ) Yeah? That's good. Sorry is good. You know I finished that The pirate ship. Hank looks blankly at him.
HANK: The pirate ship. Hank looks blankly at him.
ED: The pirate ship. Hank looks blankly at him.
HANK: Do you still have it?
ED: No. Ray sat on it. I'11 see you. He exits. Out in the hallway, he leans back against the door, drained. The camera is right on him, soaking it up.
MODERATOR: Let's hear from our guest panelist. You've expressed some interesting thoughts on this, subject. What do you see as the meaning, if there is any, of Ed TV, John. REVEAL JOHN, sitting comfortably on the panel, looking very I feel that Ed is the apotheosis of a prevailing American syndrome. It used to be that someone became famous because they were special. Now people are considered special just for being famous. Fame, itself, is now a moral good in this country. It's its own virtue. The others NOD appreciatively as John puts a PIPE in his mouth.
JOHN: I feel that Ed is the apotheosis of a prevailing American syndrome. It used to be that someone became famous because they were special. Now people are considered special just for being famous. Fame, itself, is now a moral good in this country. It's its own virtue. The others NOD appreciatively as John puts a PIPE in his mouth.
TV INTERVIEWS: OLD GUY I was Ed's Little League coach. He had no coordination. The big game, he struck cut with the bases loaded. Then he cried like a woman. It was sickening.
OLD GUY: I was Ed's Little League coach. He had no coordination. The big game, he struck cut with the bases loaded. Then he cried like a woman. It was sickening.
OLD WOMAN: I was his third grade teacher. I said "Take him for tests. There's something wrong with him." They didn't listen.
ANOTHER GUY: He used to steal things from my store. At least I think it was him. Yeah, it was probably him.
CAT MAN: Hey, look, I just fell off a Suddenly, a TUBFUL OF WATER crashes down on him.
ED: ( yelling down ) Okay, is that funny? Then he throws the tub out the window.
"DAY 78": Again, everyone there, including Cynthia. A Honcho is reading a report.
HONCHO #1: Of more concern than the sag in Ed's ratings is what viewers are feeling about him now. The positives are down and the negatives are up. There's a feeling that Ed isn't cool anymore. We're starting to see a big L.F.
GREG: HONCHO #1 L.F. Loser Factor.
HONCHO #1: L.F. Loser Factor.
HONCHO #2: That's deadly. Not necessarily. I mean instead of running from the L.F., run with it. Create more moments like the table thing. We can package a video "Ed's Goofiest Moments." Let him be America's Isn't this getting kind of pathetic. I mean we drank the juice, now we're just licking peel. Let it go!
CYNTHIA: Isn't this getting kind of pathetic. I mean we drank the juice, now we're just licking peel. Let it go!
SCHARLACH: Cynthia, I think you're laboring under a misconception. You seem to believe that because you happened to predict this, we should be impressed. We're not. Anybody in any business can predict failure. 1 need people who prevent failure. I want to see this thing turned back in the right direction. Remember this was your baby.
"DAY 94": Tad and Barry as we met them, originally are watching TV. They're really enjoying it laughing, pounding the table.
TAD: I don't know, I still love this guy.
BARRY: Yeah only I wish they had the sister on more.
TAD: Ooh, the sister! She is hot.
BARRY: You know it. REVEAL that they are watching Joma. On the TV Joma is eating dinner in his apartment with TWO attractive WOMEN, who, apparently, both live there. Joma is upset ( but he's funny when he's upset ). What's upsetting him is that across the alley, in a window of another building, he can plainly see an OVERWEIGHT MAN, with his shirt off, exercising. The overweight man is apparently watching an exercise video and is bouncing up and down in place causing everything to jiggle unpleasantly.
JOMA'S FRIEND: Ignore him.
JOMA: I can't! It's like a mudslide. Put on a shirt!
JOMA'S FRIEND: ( to Joma ) Shut the curtains.
JOMA: No! Let him shut the curtains.
ED: This Joma is so phoney! I mean, those things aren't really happening. I think they have writers making that stuff up for him. Hey, couldn't we do that? Hire some writers and have them write up some crazy situations I could get into? She's listening, amazed.
CYNTHIA: Ed, everything goes off. "Cheers" went off. "Mash" went off
ED: ( getting angry ) Yeah, but when they went off people weren't making fun of them. They weren't bozos! I'm Pumpkin Ass again!
CYNTHIA: ( getting annoyed ) You know, everything you asked me to do I did. I call you for advice about Shari you say - ( mocking imitation ) "Leave her be, see other people for a while." You just wanted me to get involved with Jill because it made for a better show.
ED: You know, everything you asked me to do I did. I call you for advice about Shari you say - "Leave her be, see other people for a while." You just wanted me to get involved with Jill because it made for a better show.
CYNTHIA: No. You screwed up my life just so you could get higher ratings. You never gave a shit about me.
ED: No. You screwed up my life just so you could get higher ratings. You never gave a shit about me.
CYNTHIA: Yeah? Well I'm not starting now. She HANGS UP and has an acid reflux.
JOHN: Look, you put anybody on TV sixteen hours a day, at some point they're going to wind up rolling off a table on to a cat. I mean with no privacy, there's no. dignity. Ed thinks. You know about that fireman who rescued that little girl?
ED: You know about that fireman who rescued that little girl?
JOHN: When? Today?
ED: No! Like, ten years ago. In Texas. Baby. Oh right, right! She fell down, like a.
JOHN: Oh right, right! She fell down, like a.
ED: Yeah, a thing. He became a big hero. He was on TV and there was a parade and a movie about him
JOHN: Right, right.
ED: And then, uh. you know it blew over and he went back to being a fireman again.
JOHN: ( cheerfully ) So he killed himself.
ED: So he killed himself.
JOHN: ( a little shaken ) SILENCE. The cell phone RINGS. Ed PICKS UP the phone.
ED: INTERCUT WITH JEANETTE IN A HOSPITAL She's crying.
JEANETTE: I'm at the hospital.
ED: I'm at the hospital.
JEANETTE: I'm at the hospital.
ED: What's the matter?!
JEANETTE: He's dead! Eddie, he's dead! It was his heart.
ED: Oh God. What hospital?
JEANETTE: St. Joseph's.
ED: I'm coming right over. I'll be right there. He hangs up.
TAD: I told you! I told you he was gonna die!
ED: Hi. I'm looking for my mother. Her name is A DOCTOR spots him.
DR. GELLER: Mr. Pekurny.
ED: DR. GELLER I'm Dr. Geller. Your mother is just lying down for a few minutes. we gave her something to calm her down.
DR. GELLER: I'm Dr. Geller. Your mother is just lying down for a few minutes. we gave her something to calm her down.
ED: Thank you. Can I see her?
DR. GELLER: Just wait here. She's coming right back out.
ED: ( wearily ) Oh, man.
DR. GELLER: ( sympathetically )
ED: What about him did he suffer any or was it quick? I'd hate to think he.
DR. GELLER: Very quick. Between you and me, it's not a bad way to go. Making love to your wife. it's very Really? They were..
ED: Really? They were..
DR. GELLER: ( nods ) According to your mother. When the paramedics got to the hotel, she told them that
ED: Hotel? What were they doing in a hotel?
DR. GELLER: I . don't know. I .
AL: How's your mother?
ED: ( shocked ) Our neighbors gave me a ride.
AL: Our neighbors gave me a ride.
ED: Where is she? Is she all right? Ed turns to the doctor.
AL: Where is she? Is she all right? Ed turns to the doctor.
ED: I thought I thought he was dead.
DR. GELLER: DR. GELLER ( reads his chart ) The deceased is . Henry Pekurny.
ED: DR. GELLER ( reads his chart ) The deceased is . Henry Pekurny.
DR. GELLER: ( reads his chart ) The deceased is . Henry Pekurny.
TAD: ( stunned ) Good twist!
AL: You thought it was me?
ED: It's your father. Hank. Your mother went to see him and he had a heart attack.
AL: It's your father. Hank. Your mother went to see him and he had a heart attack.
ED: Again, Ed turns to the doctor.
NURSE: Dr. Geller, Dr. Stack wants to see you.
DR. GELLER: ( to Ed ) Excuse me.
NURSE: ( to Ed ) Could I get your autograph for my niece?
ED: ( distracted ) Um. yeah. Jeanette enters.
JEANETTE: Al! How did you
AL: The Burkharts drove me. Are you all right?
JEANETTE: ( nervously ) I'm fine. I .
AL: Good. I gotta pee. He wheels off. Jeanette and Ed are left alone.
ED: ( loud whisper ) What happened?
JEANETTE: It was horrible. He called me up.
ED: Hank! He said he wanted to talk to me to apologize for everything he begged he cried. So I went to this horrible hotel he was staying in. I felt so sorry for him
JEANETTE: Hank! He said he wanted to talk to me to apologize for everything he begged he cried. So I went to this horrible hotel he was staying in. I felt so sorry for him
ED: So you had sex with him? Jeanette GASPS.
JEANETTE: The doctor said you were having sex.
ED: The doctor said you were having sex.
JEANETTE: ( horrified ) To you? In front of him? ( indicates Carlos ) With the.
ED: Yes. He assumed Hank was your husband. He didn't know.
JEANETTE: Oh my god! On TV!
ED: Why? How.
JEANETTE: One thing led to another. He was my husband once.
ED: But Al is your husband now!
JEANETTE: Do you think it's been easy for me? It's been years. Al can't have sex.
ED: Apparently, neither can Hank. What the hell did you do to him? Al comes rolling back, SINGING.
AL: "Lovely Rita, the Meter Maid.
JEANETTE: ( whispers ) Don't tell Al. He doesn't know.
ED: ( points to the camera ) Well, he's the only one in America who doesn't! OPRAH or RICKI or GERALDO or someone.
OPRAH: Women who remarry but have sex with their first husbands. on today's Oprah.
PANELIST #3: Ed's family is the tip of the iceberg. You watch the daytime tabloid shows it's the same thing. I'm telling you, America is fast becoming a trailer park.
PANELIST #2: Let's not overstate the case. There are millions of hard- working, sensible, moral, educated people in this country. Not every family is like Ed's. REVEAL ED watching this discussion on TV.
ED: ( to Ray ) You're not going to talk to me? You're not even gonna say hello?
RAY: I have nothing to say to you. Ed gives up. He turns to Marcia.
ED: How are you doing? Is Cliff here? She doesn't answer. Ed reacts.
RAY: Cliff left her, thanks to you.
ED: That's right. You put Cliff on television. So then he decided he was too good for her and he left.
RAY: That's right. You put Cliff on television. So then he decided he was too good for her and he left.
ED: I put his who Look, Marsh, he's not that good a singer, he'll be back.
MARCIA: ( too loudly ) That's not funny!! Ed CRINGES.
ED: I'11 take it.
JEANTTE: ( to Al, uncomfortably ) Sweetheart, I'm gonna go ahead and sign all the papers.
AL: She touches him but he pulls away. Ed wheels Al.
ED: Are things gonna be okay with you and Mom? Is there anything I can
AL: I'm moving out.
ED: I'm going to be living with my brother. He's not in such good shape as I am, but. I'm looking forward to the pillow fights.
AL: I'm going to be living with my brother. He's not in such good shape as I am, but. I'm looking forward to the pillow fights.
ED: ( really upset ) Oh, Al . This is just.
AL: Hank was always good with the ladies. Always good-looking. Hell, he's been dead for two days, he still looks better than He stops wheeling and crouches down next to Al.
ED: I want to tell you something. I love you. You're my father. I love you, too. Al KISSES him.
AL: I love you, too. Al KISSES him.
ED: Hi, Ma.
JEANETTE: ( startled ) Ed! How did you know I was here?
ED: You're famous. Somebody called me. What are you doing in a place like this?
JEANETTE: Why shouldn't I be in a place like this? I'm a whore!
ED: ( cringes ) I'm a tramp ( pulls on the sleeve of the man next to her ) Meet your new father. The whole nation is laughing at us!
JEANETTE: I'm a tramp Meet your new father. The whole nation is laughing at us!
ED: And how is this helping? come on say, good-night to all your new friends and let's go home.
JEANETTE: ( exiting ) I'm a whore! ( yells at an employee ) Your bathrooms are filthy! They're out.
RAY: I'11 take her. You humiliated our mother on national television. You've single- handedly destroyed this family.
ED: I Oh, but that book you wrote was a real love-letter. That. toilet paper with covers.
BYSTANDER #1: That book sucked. I want my money back.
ED: Oh great. Where's Moe? He looks around. Moe is gone.
RAY: Come on, Ma.
ED: ( to Ray ) Let's remember how I got into this. "Please, Eddie, do this for me. I can't get a break." ( pretends to cry )
RAY: You know what your problem is?
ED: Yeah. My problem is I've got a brother who writes a sentence like "We grew up in a small, little bedroom." As opposed to a big, little bedroom?
RAY: I got paid by the word! No! Your problem is you don't ever want anything to be your fault.
ED: Me?! That's you!
RAY: I commit. I take a chance. You wanted to be the guy on TV, but you didn't want to say you wanted to. So you have me talk you into it so you get what you want, but if it goes bad it's not your Right. Like you say you love Shari, but, you wouldn't mind noodling that model.
BYSTANDER #2: Right. Like you say you love Shari, but, you wouldn't mind noodling that model.
ED: BYSTANDER #3 The truth hurts.
BYSTANDER #3: The truth hurts.
ED: Yeah? So does a kick in the For once in your life, be honest with yourself. I know you, Ed. I know you look at me and Marcia and Mom and you think you're You're like "How did I end up in this family?" You're not different. you're worse. Because you have no guts. You drift around, you don't commit, you make fun of me okay. Just don't kid yourself. Let's go.
RAY: For once in your life, be honest with yourself. I know you, Ed. I know you look at me and Marcia and Mom and you think you're You're like "How did I end up in this family?" You're not different. you're worse. Because you have no guts. You drift around, you don't commit, you make fun of me okay. Just don't kid yourself. Let's go.
JEANETTE: You're both good boys. Ray and Jeanette leave.
ED: Three more months?
MR. SCHARLACH: Absolutely! Ed TV is more popular than ever. Only, Ed, we want you, in the next few weeks to spend a lot more time with your family.
ED: You do?
SEAVER: Definitely. Cynthia, explain it to him. Cynthia just stares at her, COLDLY.
SCHARLACH: In fact, we have a new concept. Since your family signed releases, we can follow them on camera even when you're not with them. We can cut around from family member to family member. Whoever's the most exciting at that moment. And, of course, it's another big bonus payment for you. A couple of years ago my Uncle Roy got bit on the ass by a dog. Silence. What the hell is he talking about?
ED: A couple of years ago my Uncle Roy got bit on the ass by a dog. Silence. What the hell is he talking about?
SCHARLACH: I see.
ED: You know what that is? It's sad. I mean it was just so we could be heard. So we could stand out from the crowd for a second. So we did it. But we had nothing to say. Just "Whoop". That's it. And the stupid part I mean the really stupid part is we thought it like. elevated us above the crowd. Where the fact is it made us stupider than the I see.
SCHARLACH: I see.
ED: Stop saying "I see." You don't see. Cynthia, I owe you an I don't think so.
CYNTHIA: I don't think so.
ED: Yeah. Because, you didn't talk me into anything. Everything you wanted me to do, I wanted to do.
ED: ( to the camera ) Ray, you were right. It's like in school. I was always saying "the room was too hot, the teacher didn't like me" but it was me! Everything that's wrong with my life I did. Okay? So now this is it. My family has problems. Which are our fault. And TV is not the place to solve them. So I quit. I'm taking what very little dignity I've got left and I quit. Can someone validate my parking? Pause. SHOCK.
MR. SCHARLACH: Well, Ed, that's . not really All right, I'11 pay for the parking. Big network! Scharlach speaks carefully - gently. He's aware of the camera. He doesn't want to come off as a villain.
ED: All right, I'11 pay for the parking. Big network! Scharlach speaks carefully - gently. He's aware of the camera. He doesn't want to come off as a villain.
SCHARLACH: No, I mean you can't quit. Ed thinks.
ED: I can't?
MR. SCHARLACH: ( very gently ) Well, no. You agreed to stay on the air as long as we asked you to. The station entered into this on that understanding. If you had refused we'd have begun this with somebody else. You can't just change the rules in the middle of the game, son. It's not fair to us. More importantly, it's not fair to the viewers. They're interested in you. They've devoted hours and days and weeks of their lives to Look, if you don't let me out of this. I'11 just. I'11 just sit in my apartment all day. I won't go anywhere, I won't do anything. What kind of show will that be?
ED: Look, if you don't let me out of this. I'11 just. I'11 just sit in my apartment all day. I won't go anywhere, I won't do anything. What kind of show will that be?
MR. SCHARLACH: Not too good. That's why it states in your contract that if you do not continue to live a normal life, you're in violation and are liable for the station's financial losses. Ed, I urge you to reconsider. I urge you on behalf of all those people out there whose lives have become so entwined with yours. Play fair with them, Ed.
ED: All right. Let them decide. He turns right to the camera.
GREG: Ratings are up across the board. Look at this! Men 18 to 35, women 18 to 35 . Cynthia stares, amazed.
STEVE: This contract you signed? . It's a masterpiece. Don't go to war with these guys. You fart in the wrong direction they can take everything you own and leave you naked by the side of the road. You ever going to get back with that Jill? Ooh she was nice. Shari, I didn't like that much Shut up.
ED: Shut up.
SHARI: 1 bailed. I bailed on you.
ED: It's what I do. I yell "Geronimo" and jump out of a He laughs. You weren't able to make me feel safe or secure no easy job for any man, I admit and my problem is, if I think I'm losing, I pull myself out of the game. I bail. See? I told you, I'm the love coroner.
SHARI: It's what I do. I yell "Geronimo" and jump out of a He laughs. You weren't able to make me feel safe or secure no easy job for any man, I admit and my problem is, if I think I'm losing, I pull myself out of the game. I bail. See? I told you, I'm the love coroner.
ED: What did you do to your hair?
SHARI: My truck overheated, so I opened the hood and my hair got caught in the fan belt. So I had to get a haircut.
ED: It's nice. He touches her hair. They leap on each other. They're
MILDRED: Um. Mr. Scharlach, um you're not watching TV?
SCHARLACH: No, Mildred, we're working.
MILDRED: Um. Ed and Shari are
SEAVER: No. Here. They're in the building. They're on their way Scharlach indicates that he wants someone to turn on the TV. Someone does and they see Ed and Shari coming down the hall. They enter the conference room. The cameras, of course, are with them. Ed is carrying a CARTON.
MILDRED: No. Here. They're in the building. They're on their way Scharlach indicates that he wants someone to turn on the TV. Someone does and they see Ed and Shari coming down the hall. They enter the conference room. The cameras, of course, are with them. Ed is carrying a CARTON.
ED: Hi, kids. Busy?
MUCH CONFUSION: ED ( CONT'D ) I just came up to pass out these Ed TV hats. He takes a lot of HATS out of the carton and begins placing on the heads of the Honchos.
HONCHO #1: Well, we were thinking
ED: ( cheerfully ) Shut up. He takes back that Honcho's hat.
SHARI: ( rehearsed ) What do we have to do?
ED: My lovely assistant, Shari. I'm glad you asked. The contest is who can dig up legally, of course I'm not suggesting that anyone break any laws the most embarrassing and humiliating facts about any of the executives here at the North American Broadcasting System which owns Real TV. The Honchos staring blankly.
SHARI: So act now. Here's Ed's home phone number. She holds up a CARD.
SCHARLACH: Legal?! How can this be legal? It's defamation! It's slander! Not, technically. He is not showing a reckless disregard for the truth.
LAWYER: Not, technically. He is not showing a reckless disregard for the truth.
SCHARLACH: You're fired! The meeting continues ANGRILY.
RAY: ( into phone ) Uh-huh. uh-huh. Really?! She was how old? In the conference room one of the Execs looks DIZZY. The CAMERA PANS to Al on the phone.
AL: ( shocked ) He pays a prostitute to do what to him? I don't even want that on my shoes.
SCHARLACH: Stop laughing or you're fired. She stops. Then she gets up.
CYNTHIA: I've got this great idea. We put together a video. "The Network Executives Goofiest Moments." And listen, i've really loved working On the word "loved" she shot Scharlach THE FINGER. She exits,
ED: Okay. We have a winner. Now please don't feel badly if yours wasn't selected. In our eyes, you're all winners.
RAY: And each contestant gets one of An "I tried to screw a network executive" tee-shirt.
ED: A hundred per cent cotton. Okay, here we go, Andy. Ed grabs a sealed ENVELOPE. Andy plays a DRUM ROLL not terribly well.
ED: Hey, the winner is from right here in New York city. Carl Bowers a former orderly at the Martin Center a clinic that specializes in, what they call, male enhancement 201 INT. CONFERENCE ROOM Scharlach's EYES WIDEN in HORROR.
ED: ( to the camera ) How many of you know what a penile implant is? As it was explained to me, what happens is
ED: And the man of the hour the executive with the winning secret the man who, thanks to the miracle of space-age science and a pump he keeps in his pocket, can now A SHOT OF a television set tuned to Ed. Suddenly Ed is replaced by a Real TV logo.
MUSAK: 205 INT. CONFERENCE ROOM 206 INT. TV STUDIO An ENTERTAINMENT REPORTER.
ENTERTAINMENT REPORTER: A spokesperson for Real TV announced that Ed received a check covering his four months on the air, his balloon payment and an additional bonus to show the Network's appreciation for all his quote hard work and loyalty unquote. When asked
PANELIST #1: In five years no one will even remember this person.
PANELIST #4: Five years! Six months. He's the "macarena." He's
REPORTER: Marcia Pekurny, the woman known to most Americans as "Ed's sister" was married here today to Carlos Coto, who some of you may remember as the primary camera operator on "Ed TV"
NEWS ANCHOR: The current rage of "Reality Television" got a real dose of reality today. Lifestyle Televisions Joma was shot this evening, outside his apartment. Because Joma was on television twenty-four hours a day, Lifestyle's cameras were there to record the shooting. WE SEE Joma walking into his building. Somebody steps forward with a GUN. The ASSAILANT is jostled as he shoots and the bullet hits Joma in the ass. He falls to the sidewalk.
JOKA: Ohhhh!!! . my ass! He shot me in the ass! The CAMERA PANS to the Assailant, who we might recognize as someone who we've seen following Ed from time to time.
ASSAILANT: Now I'm famous. REVEAL Ed and Shari watching this on television.
ED: I know him. I gave him an autograph. Shari turns it off.
THE END: Writers : Emile Gaudreault Sylvie Bochard
