ED WOOD: by Scott Alexander & Larry Karaszewski
CRISWELL: Greetings, my friend. You are interested in the unknown, the mysterious, the unexplainable. that is why you are here. So now, for the first time, we are bringing you the full story of what We are giving you all the evidence, based only on the secret testimony of the miserable souls who survived this terrifying ordeal. The incidents, the places, my friend, we cannot keep this a secret any longer. Can your hearts stand the shocking facts of the true story of Edward D. Wood, Junior??
DOLORES: Eddie, my dove just flew out the She goes on in two minutes! What are we gonna do??
CREW MEMBER: She goes on in two minutes! What are we gonna do??
ED: Dolores, give me your shoes.
DOLORES: The ghost can be barefoot. me your shoes!
ED: The ghost can be barefoot. me your shoes!
CREW MEMBER: BACK ONSTAGE The soldiers suddenly look up.
BACK ONSTAGE: The soldiers suddenly look up.
ACTOR #1: Hey, I think I see something!
DOLORES: I offer you mortals the bird of peace, so that you may change your ways and end all this destruction.
ED: What a show! Everyone was terrific! Paul, your second-act monologue actually gave me chills,
PAUL MARCO: Aw thanks, Eddie.
CONRAD: I got the early edition! It was just dropped off at the newsstand.
ED: ( he smiles at everyone ) This is the big moment.!
WIDE: Everybody excitedly crowds around and starts reading. A moment. and then their faces drop. Clearly, this is a disastrous review. Their faces get sadder, and sadder. and then they finish. A melancholy beat, until
BUNNY: What does that old queen know? He wasn't even there! Sending a copy boy to do his dirty work. Well fuck him!
DOLORES: Do I really have a face like a horse?
PAUL MARCO: What does "ostentatious" mean?
ED: Hey. Hey, it's not that bad. You just can't concentrate on the negative. He's got some nice things to say. See, "The soldier costumes are very realistic." That's positive!
ED: Hell, I've seen a lot worse reviews. I've seen ones where they didn't even like the costumes! Like, that last "Francis the Mule" picture it got terrible notices. But it was a huge Lines around the block.
PAUL MARCO: Lines around the block.
ED: So don't take it too seriously. We're all doin' great work.
CONRAD: You really think so?
ED: Absolutely! It's just the beginning. I promise this: If we stick together, one day I'll make every single one of you famous.
ED: Honey, what if I'm wrong? What if I just don't have it?
DOLORES: Ed, it was only one review.
ED: Orson Welles was 26 when he made "Citizen Kane." I'm already 30!
DOLORES: Ed, you're still young. This is the part of your life when you're supposed to be struggling.
ED: I know. But sometimes I get scared this is as good as it's gonna get.
DOLORES: Things'll change for us. Nobody stays on the fringe forever.
DOLORES: God, where's my pink sweater? I can never find my clothes anymore.
RUDE BOSS: Hey big shot, get off your ass. They need a potted palm over in the Carl Laemmle Building.
ED: Sure thing, Mr. Kravitz.
ED: Whoa, look at all this sand. This is real sand! My God, where'd they get all this sand?!
SECURITY GUARD: Hey, YOU. This is a closed set.
ED: This is fantastic! What are you gonna do with it all?
ED: It's such a chance, I could make an entire movie out of this stock footage! See, the story opens with these mysterious explosions. Nobody knows what's causing them, but it's upsetting all the buffalo. So the military is called in to solve the Ya forgot the octopus.
ED: No, I'm saving that for the big underwater climax!
SECRETARY #1: They say he was a girl trapped in a man's body.
SECRETARY #2: I'll bet it hurt when they snipped his thing off.
ED: What are you ladies gabbin' about?
SECRETARY #1: You know that Christine Jorgensen freak? He/she/it's in "Variety." Some producer is making a biopic.
ED: ( startled ) R-really? I didn't see the story.
SECRETARY #1: Ah, it was buried in the back. The guy's a real small贸time operator.
DOLORES: Eddie, I don't understand. Why are you the most qualified director for the Christine Jorgensen Story?
ED: ( nervous, he lies ) Aw, er, it's just a bunch of hot air. I had to say something to get in the
GEORGIE: Can I help you?
ED: Yes, I'm Ed Wood. I'm here about directing the Christine Jorgensen Yeah, well a couple of things have changed. It ain't gonna be the Christine Jorgensen story no more. Goddamn "Variety" printed the story before I had the rights, and now that bitch is asking for the sky.
GEORGIE: Yeah, well a couple of things have changed. It ain't gonna be the Christine Jorgensen story no more. Goddamn "Variety" printed the story before I had the rights, and now that bitch is asking for the sky.
ED: ( disappointed ) So you're not gonna make the movie?
GEORGIE: No, of COURSE I'm gonna make the movie! I've already pre贸sold Alabama and Oklahoma. Those repressed Okies really go for that twisted pervert stuff. So we'll just make it without that she-male. We'll fictitionalize
ED: Is there a script?
GEORGIE: Fuck no! But there's a poster.
SEX!": It opens in nine weeks in Tulsa.
GEORGIE: It opens in nine weeks in Tulsa.
ED: ( mustering up his courage ) Well, Mr. Weiss, I'm your guy. I work fast, and I'm a deal: I write AND direct. And I'm good. I just did a play in Hollywood, and Victor Crowley praised its realism.
GEORGIE: Hmm. There's five-hundred guys in town who can tell me the same thing. You said on the phone you had some kind of "special qualifications."
ED: Well, Mr. Weiss, I've never told anyone what I'm about to tell you. but I really want this job. I like to dress in women's clothing.
GEORGIE: Are you a fruit?
ED: No, no, not at all! I Wearing their clothes makes me feel closer to them.
GEORGIE: So you're not a fruit?
ED: Nah, I'm all man. I even fought in
GEORGIE: You gotta be kiddin' me.
ED: Confidentially, I even paratrooped wearing a brassiere and panties. I'll tell ya, I wasn't scared of being killed, but I was terrified of getting wounded, and having the medics discover my secret.
GEORGIE: And this is why you think you're the most qualified to make my movie?
ED: Yeah. I know what it's like to live with a secret, and worry about what people are gonna think of you. My girlfriend still doesn't know why her sweaters are always stretched out.
GEORGIE: Ed, you seem like a nice kid, but look around you. I don't hire directors with burning desires to tell their stories. I make movies like "Chained Girls." I need someone with experience who can shoot a film in four days that'll make me a profit. I'm sorry. That's all that matters.
BARTENDER: Are you gonna get something else?
BELA: Too constrictive. This is the most uncomfortable coffin I have ever been Gee, Mr. Lugosi, I've never had any complaints before.
SALESMAN: Gee, Mr. Lugosi, I've never had any complaints before.
BELA: The selection is quite shoddy. You are wasting my time.
ED: Excuse me, Mr. Lugosi??
BELA: ( irritated ) I told you, I don't want any of your goddamn coffins.
ED: No. I don't work here.
BELA: Bela peers at Ed, then glances confusedly over his shoulder at the salesman. Oh. Bela looks back at anxious Ed.
BELA: Who are you? What do you want?
ED: I don't want anything. I'm just a really big, big fan. I've seen all your movies.
BELA: Bela strides out.
ED: Why were you buying a coffin?
BELA: Because I'm planning on dying soon.
ED: ( concerned ) Yes. I'm embarking on another bus- and贸truck tour of "Dracula." Twelve cities in ten days, if that's
BELA: Yes. I'm embarking on another bus- and贸truck tour of "Dracula." Twelve cities in ten days, if that's
ED: You know, I saw you perform "Dracula." In Poughkeepsie, in 1938.
BELA: Eh, that was a terrible production. Renfield was a drunk!
ED: I thought it was great. You were much scarier in real life than you were in the movie.
BELA: Thank you.
ED: I waited to get your autograph, but you never came outside.
BELA: I apologize. When I play Dracula, I put myself into a trance. It takes me much time to re-emerge.
BELA: Oh, there's my bus. Shit, where's my transfer?!
ED: Don't you bave a car?
BELA: I refuse to drive in this country. Too many madmen.
ED: Boy, Mr. Lugosi, you must lead such an exciting life. When is your next picture coming out?
BELA: I have no next picture.
ED: Ah, you gotta be jokin'! A great man like you. I'll bet you have dozens of 'em lined up.
BELA: Back in the old days, yes. But now no one give two fucks for Bela.
ED: But you're a big star!
BELA: No more. I haven't worked in four years. This town, it chews you up, then spits you out. I'm just an Make a right.
BELA: ( bitter ) They don't want the classic horror films anymore. Today, it's all giant bugs, giant spiders, giant grasshoppers who would believe such nonsense!
ED: The old ones were much spookier. They had castles, full moons.
BELA: They were to them. And you know what else? The women prefer the traditional monsters.
ED: The pure horror, it both repels and attracts them. Because in their collective unconsciousness, they have the agony of childbirth. The blood. The blood is horror.
BELA: The pure horror, it both repels and attracts them. Because in their collective unconsciousness, they have the agony of childbirth. The blood. The blood is horror.
ED: I never thought of that.
BELA: Take my word for it. You want to "score" with a young lady, you take her to see "Dracula."
BELA: Ugh, what a mess. My wife of twenty years left me last month. I'm not much of a
BELA: Shh! I'm coming! I will feed you!
ED: Well. I guess I should go. Perhaps we could get together again?
BELA: ( he shakes his hand ) Certainly. But now the children of the night are calling me.
ED: Sweetie, you won't believe it! I've got the most incredible news!
DOLORES: ( excited ) You got the job?!!
ED: ( confused ) Oh, uh, no, I didn't get the job. But something better happened!
DOLORES: Better than not getting a job?
ED: Yeah! I met a movie star! Somebody really big!
DOLORES: Who? Robert Taylor?!
ED: ( annoyed ) No! A horror movie star!
DOLORES: Boris Karloff!?
ED: Close! The
DOLORES: You met Basil Rathbone!
ED: Oh, the hell with you. I met BELA
LUGOSI!: I thought he was dead.
DOLORES: I thought he was dead.
ED: No! He's very alive. Well. sort of. He's old, and frail but he's still Bela Lugosi! And he's really Boy, I can't even remember the last time he was in a picture.
DOLORES: Boy, I can't even remember the last time he was in a picture.
ED: It's a shame. He's such a rest actor, and nobody uses him anymore.
DOLORES: So did you get his autograph?
ED: No. It wasn't like that at all. It was just the two of us, and we were talkin'. and he treated me like a friend.
RUDE BOSS: He's a
ED: No he's not! Do you realize how much money he made for this studio over the years? "Dracula"! "The Raven"! "The Black Cat"!
RUDE BOSS: Yeah? Well now he's a junkie. He don't deserve to work.
ED: That's not true
RUDE BOSS: He's so great,
ED: ( defensive ) Well, uh, if I could I would.
ED: Ugh! I hate the way she interrupts the pictures. She doesn't show 'em the proper respect.
BELA: ( glued to the TV ) I think she's a honey. Look at those
BELA: Vampira! You will come under my spell! You will be my slave of love.
ED: ( fascinated by Bela's hand ) Hey Bela, how do you do that?
BELA: You must be double-jointed, and you must be Hungarian. Vampira, look at me! Stare into my
BELA: I am getting tired. I need to take my medicine.
ED: Do you want me to get it for you?
BELA: No thank you, Eddie. I'll be
BELA: I feel better now.
BELA: Children! I love children.
OUTSIDE: Little kids in Lone Ranger and Howdy Doody costumes giggle Suddenly the door flies open, and standing there is Count Dracula! The real Count Dracula. YEOWWWW!!! The kids SCREAM and run. Bela chuckles. Every kid is gone. except one TOUGH BOY.
BELA: Aren't you scared, little boy? I'm going to drink your blood!
TOUGH BOY: Ehh, you're not a real vampire. You can't turn into a bat, and those teeth don't frighten me.
ED: Well how about
BELA: Hey, how'd you do that?
ED: Dentures. I lost my pearlies in the war.
ED: Are you sure this is okay?
BELA: Don't worry. I do it every
ED: Now what?
BELA: I am DRACULA!
BELA: I am the BAT!!
BELA: I am DRACUlA! I will LIVE FOREVER!!!
WIDE: Ed slowly walks over and lies next to Bela. They're happy, eyes alert, on top of the world. Ed peers in wonder at his new friend.
GEORGIE: So what's the big news you couldn't tell me over the phone. again?
ED: Mr. Weiss, I was thinkin' about what you said, about how all your movies have to make a profit. And I realized, what's the one thing, that if you put in a movie, it'll be No. Better than tits a
GEORGIE: ( he thinks ) No. Better than tits a
ED: No. Better than tits a
GEORGIE: Eddie, you must have me confused with David Selznick. I don't make major motion pictures. I make crap.
ED: Yeah, but if you took that crap and put a star in it, you'd have something!
GEORGIE: Yeah. Crap with a star.
ED: ( impassioned ) No! It would be something better! Something impressive. The biggest moneymaker you've ever had!
GEORGIE: Fine, maybe you're right. But it doesn't friggin' matter. I can't afford a star, so I don't even know what we're talking about.
ED: What if I told you you could have a star for $1000??
GEORGIE: ( skeptical )
GEORGIE: Isn't he dead?
ED: Isn't he dead?
GEORGIE: Isn't he dead?
ED: ( annoyed ) No, he's not dead! He lives in Baldwin Hills. I met him recently, and he wants to be in our picture.
GEORGIE: OUR picture?
ED: ( sheepishly ) Uh, yeah. Our picture.
GEORGIE: Why would Lugosi want to be in a sex-change flick?
ED: Because he's
GEORGIE: Alright, fine! You can direct it. I want a script in three days, and we start shooting a week from Monday.
ED: Thank you! Bless you, Mr. Weiss! I promise I won't let you down!
ED: You know these people. I need all the transsexuals and transvestites you can get. No, I don't care if they're not actors. I want realism. I want this film to tell the truth! I've waited my whole life for this shot, and I'm not gonna blow it.
BELA: Eddie, you got a new movie for me?!
ED: Yeah, it's gonna be a great picture! You'll love your character! Bunny, Bela's here. Look, hit the bars, work some parties, and get me transvestites! I need transvestites!
BELA: Eddie, what kind of movie is this?
ED: Well, It's about how people have two personalities. The side they show to the world, and then the secret person they hide inside.
BELA: ( delighted ) Oh, like Jekyll and Hyde! Ah, I've always wanted to play Jekyll and Hyde! I'm looking forward to this
ED: Ehh, your part's a little different. You're like the God that looks down on all the characters, and oversees I don't understand.
BELA: I don't understand.
ED: Well. you control everyone's fate. You're like the puppetmaster.
BELA: ( getting it ) Ah, so I pull the strings!
ED: Yeah. You pull the strings "Pull the strings". hey, that's pretty good!
ED: Wipe off your hands. I've got a little surprise for you. I finished my script.
DOLORES: Ed, I'm so proud! I'll read it as soon as I get home.
ED: ( apprehensive ) Well, I'd really like to know what you think. Why don't you go in the bedroom and take a look at it? I'll
DOLORES: Ed silently nods.
DOLORES: How long have you been doing this?
ED: Since I was a kid. My mom wanted a girl, so she used to dress me in girlie clothing. It just kinda became a habit.
DOLORES: Jesus Christ! And you never told me?
ED: This is my way of telling you
DOLORES: ( furious ) What, by putting it in a fuckin' script, for everyone to see?! What kind of sick mind would operate like
DOLORES: And what about this so-called "Barbara" character? It's obviously ME! I'm so embarrassed! This is our Of course it is. And that's why you should play the part.
ED: ( quiet ) Of course it is. And that's why you should play the part.
DOLORES: Oh! You got nerve, buddy.
ED: It's a damn good role.
DOLORES: ( she suddenly stops ) Ugh! How can you act so casual, when you're dressed like that?!
ED: It takes me comfortable.
DOLORES: Oh, just like in the script!
ED: ( he takes her hand ) So what do ya say? Do you wanna break up. or do you wanna do the movie with me?
CONRAD: It's good to have a job. Now I can get my phone reconnected.
GEORGIE: I thought this was gonna be a sex- change film!
ED: ( defensive ) There's still a sex-change
GEORGIE: Yeah! Five pages right before it ends! The rest of the show is about some schmuck who likes angora I don't think he's a schmuck.
ED: I don't think he's a schmuck.
GEORGIE: And what's with this new title?! My poster says "I CHANGED MY SEX"!
ED: So change the poster. Trust me, you'll be better off. This is a story that's gonna grab people. It's about this guy. He's crazy about this girl but he likes to wear dresses. Should he tell her? Should he not tell her? He's torn. George, this is DRAMA.
GEORGIE: Fine, shoot whatever baloney you want! I give up. Just make sure it's seven reels long.
ED: Everybody, we're about to embark on quite a journey. Four days of hard work. but when it's over, we'll have a picture that'll entertain, enlighten, and maybe even move millions of people.
ED: Now the only way we're gonna achieve all this is if we stay on schedule. Day one TODAY we'll start easy. We have eighteen silent scenes that can be shot quickly: Cars parking, Patrick's suicide, me strolling as a man, me strolling as a woman, etc. After lunch, we'll bring in the Inspector and the Doctor. The Doctor is very important to the plot, so we might have to spend time on retakes. But it's worth it. Scene totals for the first day is thirty-four. Day Two, we'll be a little busier
CAMERAMAN BILL: Excuse me Eddie, I don't mean to interrupt. but I'm gettin' a little worried about those clouds.
ED: Three and Four later. Now let's get that first shot off! It's Scene 17, Glenda looking in the window.
THE CREW: disperses. Ed quickly runs in his heels over to the burly make-up man, HARRY.
ED: Okay, do I need any touch-up?
ED: ( irritated ) Harry, we've discussed this a million times. I don't want to look like a girl. I want to look like myself.
ED: PLACES, EVERYONE! ROLL CAMERA!
CAMERAMAN BILL: ( nonchalant )
WIDE: Ed chucks the megaphone and runs crazily past the camera and behind a building.
ED'S VOICE: And ACTION!
ED: And, CUT! PRINT IT! LET'S MOVE ON!
CAMERAMAN BILL: Don't you want a second take, for What's to protect? It was perfect!
ED: ( exhilarated ) What's to protect? It was perfect!
CREW MEMBER: We don't have a permit. RUN!
ED: We don't have a permit. RUN!
ED: The set doesn't look right! It looks too. empty. Clutter it up. Put a skeleton in the corner. And what's that thing over there?
PAUL MARCO: I don't know.
ED: Well it looks good. Let's use it!
GEORGIE: Ed! What's with these revised pages?! A scene in a smelting factory? A buffalo stampede?? Three-hundred soldiers storming Anzio Beach??! What's going on here? I can't afford to film this nonsense!
ED: Don't worry. We're not gonna film any of it.
GEORGIE: I know a guy in Universal's stock house he's giving me the footage for free. This movie's gonna look like a million bucks.
ED: I know a guy in Universal's stock house he's giving me the footage for free. This movie's gonna look like a million bucks.
O.S. VOICE: Mr. Lugosi has arrived!
ED: Oh my God! Mr. Lugosi is here! Now everyone, when he walks on the stage Now everyone, when he walks on the stage, treat him normal. I know Bela Lugosi is a world-famous star, and you're all a little excited, but we're professionals. So if you treat him with respect, everything will be
ED: Bela! It's so great to see you! And eight o'clock on the dot. Right on time!
BELA: I am always on time.
ED: Of course! Well, we got a big day planned for you. First, we're gonna start off a little easy, with you in that armchair over there. Then, once you're up to speed and cooking, we'll reset and bring out the laboratory Uh, Eddie, do you have my money?
BELA: ( he leans in and WHISPERS ) Uh, Eddie, do you have my money?
ED: Huh?! Oh yeah, of course.
LATER: Bela is seated in the ratty armchair on the set. Harry does his make-up. Harry glances at Bela's arm, and it is full of TRACK MARKS. Harry grimaces, but doesn't say anything. Conrad eagerly scurries up.
CONRAD: Mr. Lugosi, I know you're very busy, but could I have your autograph?
BELA: ( cordial ) Of course.
CONRAD: You know which movie of yours I love, Mr. Lugosi? "The Invisible Ray." You were great as Karloff's sidekick.
BELA: "Sidekick"?? "KARLOFF"?!!
BELA: Fuck you!! Karloff doesn't deserve to smell my shit! That limey cocksucker can rot in hell, for all I care!!!
WIDE: Ed panickedly runs up.
ED: What happened?! Jesus, Connie, what did you do?
CONRAD: ( upset, close to crying ) Nothin'! I told him he was great.
BELA: How dare that asshole bring up Karloff?!! You think it takes talent to play Frankenstein?! NO! It's just make-up and grunting! GRRR!
ED: You're right, Bela. Now Dracula, that's a part that takes acting.
BELA: Of course! Dracula requires presence. It's all in the voice, and the eyes, and the hand
ED: Look, you seem a little agitated. Do you maybe wanna take a little break, go for a nice walk. and then we'll come back and shoot the scene?
BELA: BULLSHIT! I am ready now! Roll the
ED: Um, okay. roll camera
CAMERAMAN BILL: ( unsure ) Mark. Scene Thirty-One.
ED: CAMERA ASSISTANT
SOUNDMAN: CAMERA ASSISTANT
CAMERA ASSISTANT: Mark. Scene Thirty-One.
ED: And. action? "Beware. Beware! Beware, of the big green dragon that sits on your doorstep. He eats little boys! Puppy dog tails! Big fat snails! Beware. Take care. Beware!"
ED: WIPE TO:
DOLORES: How can you just walk around like that, in front of all these people?
ED: Hon', nobody's bothered but you. Look around they couldn't care Ed, this isn't the real world! You've surrounded yourself with
DOLORES: Ed, this isn't the real world! You've surrounded yourself with
WEIRDOS!: Say it a little louder. I don't think Bela heard you in his trailer.
ED: Say it a little louder. I don't think Bela heard you in his trailer.
ED: Dolores. I need your help.
ED: Music swells. and CUT and PRINT IT!
ED: And we fade out. "The End." What do you think?
GEORGIE: I think it's fifty-seven minutes Yeah? Whatever. So did you like it?
ED: Yeah? Whatever. So did you like it?
GEORGIE: ( like a lecturing teacher ) Ed, what was the one thing I asked you to do? Make it seven reels long. I've got contracts with my exhibitors. If it ain't over an hour, they won't play it.
ED: Gee, I used every frame of film we shot. Maybe they won't notice.
GEORGIE: They'll notice. Look, why don't you let me take over from here? I can do a few tricks: Pad it out with more stock footage, add establishing shots.
ED: Um, I guess
GEORGIE: Good. And one more thing. I think your "Written, Directed, and Starring Ed Wood" credit is a bad idea.
ED: Why?! I did all those things! Hell, I even built the props.
GEORGIE: And you did a bang-up job, too. But you don't want other producers to know that's you in drag. Trust me. It's a career killer.
ED: But I'm proud. I wrote, directed, and starred in it just like Orson Welles in "Citizen Kane"!
GEORGIE: Yeah?? Well Orson Welles didn't wear angora sweaters, did he??!
BUNNY: Dolores leans in to Ed.
DOLORES: Ed, who is Daniel Davis?
ED: ( sour ) Some weirdo who likes to wear "Glen. Is it another woman?" "Pull the string! Pull the string!"
CAMERAMAN BILL: I didn't shoot that!
ED: Georgie, what's with the stag footage?? You said you were cutting in establishing shots!
GEORGIE: I did. I established some tits and
BELA: Wasn't I something..? Did you see how I command the screen?!
BUNNY: Ed, it was superb.
CONRAD: A great show! A little strange. but great especially my scenes.
ED: Just like I always promised. Now you're among the immortals. You're movie stars.
PAUL MARCO: ( he raises his glass ) Here's to Ed. For making us into
ED: From today on, our lives are different! We'll be swimming laps in the same pool Jean Harlow did.
DOLORES: I don't know. It's so much money.
ED: Who cares?! We're on a ROLL! These are the moments in life you're supposed to grab.
DOLORES: But Ed, we're not even married. And you don't have a job.
ED: tons of new scripts. And now that I have a track record, studios are bound to hire me!
ED: Look on the bright side. If we miss the rent, what's the worst they can Toss us out on our ass.
DOLORES: Toss us out on our ass.
ED: INT. BUNGALOW - DAY The house is moved in. Ed's unkempt dogs run about. Pumped-up Ed sits on the bed typing fiendishly fast while wearing an angora sweater. A cigarette dangles from his mouth, and a bottle of booze lays in his lap. Bela sits quietly nearby.
ED: How 'bout a western? People love But, I don't like horses. Do I have to get on one?
BELA: But, I don't like horses. Do I have to get on one?
ED: Eh, forget it. What else is big? Teenagers! Jailbait pics! Yeah. You got the juvenile delinquent, his girlfriend from the wrong side of the Who do I play?
BELA: Who do I play?
ED: Uh, a cop. NO! You play the father. He's angry! He doesn't like seeing his son no he doesn't like seeing his daughter behave this way!
BELA: ( cautious, not to offend ) Well. can't I play the romantic part? I'm tired of always being the bad guy. You know, back in Hungary, I played Romeo! I would like to be the lover again me, in a boat, with the girl.
ED: Sure. Romance, that's great! To engineer your comeback, we're gonna need a whole slate of pictures. Once "Glen Or Glenda" takes off, we'll slam you into one, then another, then That's good. I could use the money.
BELA: ( he smiles ) That's good. I could use the money.
ED: But we need to start off with a bang! Something we know the audience will want to see. Mmm. What was your biggest hit?
BELA: ( he thinks ) Hmm. my biggest hit? That would probably be "Dracula."
ED: Of course!
BELA: Those bastards at Universal. I made so much money for them, and now I can't get the time of day.
ED: So let's make another "Dracula." Let's make "The Return of Dracula"!
BELA: We can't. Those sons-a-bitches control the rights.
ED: They do? Shoot. There way to get around that.
ED: Ha-ha! Dr. Acula!
BELA: wear the cape, have the fangs. but you're a doctor! Not a count.
ED: wear the cape, have the fangs. but you're a doctor! Not a count.
BELA: Ah! This is very exciting.
ED: ( inspired ) I gotta type this up, while it's still fresh!
ED: Excuse me, I'm here to see Mr. What's your name?
GUARD: What's your name?
ED: Edward D. Wood, Junior.
GUARD: Oh. Eh, he's in the Executive Building. You can park in the reserved section.
SECRETARY: Sir, Mr. Feldman will see you now.
MR. FELDMAN: Mr. Ward, it's a delight to meet you.
ED: ( shaking his hand ) It's Wood. Ed Wood.
MR. FELDMAN: Wood? Ward? Wood. Hey, what do you know. It is Wood. Dang secretaries, you can never get a good one. Right?
MR. FELDMAN: So what are you bringing me? Looks like you got some film cans.
ED: Well, Mr. Feldman, some people have resumes to show. I've got my own Really?! Well good for you.
MR. FELDMAN: Really?! Well good for you.
ED: I just made this picture, over at Screen Classics. It opens next week.
MR. FELDMAN: Screen Classics? Hmm, don't know Nobody in town has seen it, so I'm givin' you first crack at my talents.
ED: Nobody in town has seen it, so I'm givin' you first crack at my talents.
MR. FELDMAN: I can't wait to take a look. So what's up next?
ED: Well, Mr. Feldman, I don't believe in thinking small. So I've got a whole slate of pictures for you: "The Vampire's Tomb," "The Ghoul Goes West". and "Doctor Acula"!
MR. FELDMAN: Doctor Acula? I don't get it.
ED: Ed writes it out, "DR. ACULA," then waves it in Feldman's face. Feldman nods.
MR. FELDMAN: Oh, "Dr. Acula." I get it. I don't like it.
ED: But Bela Lugosi's in it!
MR. FELDMAN: Lugosi's washed-up. What else you
ED: Well. I've got another project I wasn't gonna tell you about. Lugosi's in it, but he's got a smaller part. The lead is an ingenue, a sterling young actress named Dolores Fuller. The title is "Bride Of The Atom."
MR. FELDMAN: Ah! Atomic Age stuff, huh? I like I'll tell you what, Mr. Ward. Why don't you leave those film cans, and my associates and I will take a look at your little opus. Maybe we can do business together.
EXECUTIVE #1: What the hell is this?!
EXECUTIVE #2: Is this an actual movie?!
EXECUTIVE #1: It can't be.
EXECUTIVE #2: It's fuckin' ridiculous!
FELDMAN: he's the one I met with today! This must be a big PUT-ON! It's probably another one of Billy Wellman's practical jokes!
ED: Georgie, what happened?! I thought "Glen Or Glenda" was opening next week! Where's the ads?
GEORGIE: ( pissed-off ) "Where's the ads"?! The ads are in Alabama, Indiana, and Missouri! You schmuck, it ain't gonna play L.A.!
ED: Why not??
GEORGIE: Because I can't sell it to save my life! You made a goddamn feathered fish. Is it an art film, a horror show, a hygiene flick? Nobody knows! I'm beggin' people to book it.
ED: ( insulted ) Maybe it needs special handling.
GEORGIE: Screw you, Wood! I even sunk more money into different titles: "Transvestite" "He Or She?" "I Led Two Lives". It DOESN'T MATTER! Nobody wants to see the piece of You can't talk that way about my "Your movie"?! I wish it was your movie! I wish I hadn't blown every dime I ever made into this stinkbomb. If I ever see you again, I'll kill
ED: You can't talk that way about my "Your movie"?! I wish it was your movie! I wish I hadn't blown every dime I ever made into this stinkbomb. If I ever see you again, I'll kill
GEORGIE: "Your movie"?! I wish it was your movie! I wish I hadn't blown every dime I ever made into this stinkbomb. If I ever see you again, I'll kill
BUNNY: So guess where I'm going next I don't know. Where?
ED: I don't know. Where?
BUNNY: Mexico! And guess what I'm going to do there?!
ED: ( not enjoying this game ) I dunno. Lie on the beach?
BUNNY: WRONG! I'm getting my first series of hormone shots! And once those babies kick in, they're gonna remove my organs, and MAKE ME A WOMAN!
ED: Jesus! Are you serious?
BUNNY: Yes! I've dreamed of it for years, but your movie made me realize I've got to take action. GOODBYE, PENIS!
DOLORES: Ssh! Will you keep it down? Now entering the ring, in the gold trunks, 350 bone-crunching pounds of pure strength, the "Swedish Angel". Tor Johnson!!!
ED: My God, look at that guy. He's a
ED: I've never seen anything like him!
BUNNY: And once I'm a woman, Jean-Claude and I are getting married
ED: ( eyes glued to the ring ) Ssh! He's so big! He's a monster! Can you imagine what that guy would be like in a movie?
ON TOR: He screams maniacally in Swedish. Tor lifts the Opponent over his head and tosses him into the stands. Three rows of chairs get knocked over.
ED: Mr. Johnson, over here!
ED: Glad you could fit me in your Da pleasure be mine.
TOR: ( in a hoarse SWEDISH ACCENT ) Da pleasure be mine.
TOR: Could we moovf to table?
ED: Oh, of course!
ED: So, Mr. Johnson
TOR: Tor. Have you ever thought about becoming an actor?
ED: Tor. Have you ever thought about becoming an actor?
TOR: ( he CHUCKLES ) Mm, not good-lookink enough.
ED: I think you're quite handsome.
TOR: No. With hair, yah. But I must shave head for wrestlink. It scare da crowds. Dey like that. Ed smiles.
ED: Well, I think you'd be a sensation in pictures.
TOR: But what bout accent? Some people tink I haf too much accent.
ED: Nah, that doesn't matter! It's a visual medium.
WAITRESS: Tor, what can I get ya?
TOR: I'll haf eight beers.
WAITRESS: ( nonchalant, to Ed ) And you?
ED: Uhh, I'll have just one.
TOR: And more nuts!
ED: So anyway, I've got this new script, "Bride Of The Atom," and there's a part you're ideal for: "Lobo." He's tough. A brute. But he has a heart and at the end he saves the girl.
TOR: ( he laughs merrily ) I like. When do movie shoot?
ED: Hopefully, very soon. I'm just awaiting the final okay from Mr. Feldman at MGM.
ED: Wood Productions. Eddie. help me.
ED: BELA ( on phone )
ED: Ed tries the door. It's unlocked.
BELA: Eddie. my friend.
ED: Bela, what happened?!
BELA: I didn't feel well.
ED: Let me take you to the hospital.
BELA: No hospital. Just take me to the
ED: Should I call a doctor?
BELA: Nah. This happens all the time.
ED: Is there anything I can get you? Water? A blanket?
BELA: ( distressed ) I don't know how to make goulash.
ED: ( distressed ) I don't know how to make goulash.
ED: What's in the needle?
BELA: Morphine, with a demerol chaser. Eddie, I'm so broke. I don't know what I'm gonna do.
ED: Don't worry. I'll do something.
ED: I'm no good.
DOLORES: Ed, it's just one man's opinion!
ED: Bela needs a job. I can't even get a film going. But of course I can't I made the worst movie of all time.
DOLORES: That's ridiculous.
ED: All I wanna do is tell stories. The things I find interesting.
DOLORES: Well maybe you're not studio kind of material. Maybe you just need to raise the money yourself.
ED: The movie is called "Bride Of The
ED: .It will star Bela Lugosi. Each of you would put up $20,000.
ED: Yes, that's right. He's still alive. Huh? Is he available Friday night? Gee, I suppose so. Why?
BELA: "Greetings. I am the Count."
ED: "Greetings. I am Slick Slomopavitz, Seeker of Adventure." Audience laughs. Applause. "Say, that's a funny place to sleep."
BELA: "It is my home."
ED: "Oh, tract housing, huh?" Laugh. "You need a new real estate agent."
BELA: "Beg to differ. This casket incarpratates, er, inporporates "
ED: No Bela, that's "incorporates." Look, just say "This casket has."
BELA: ( upset ) Ach! How do they expect a Hungarian to pronounce this dialogue? This live television is madness!
ASSISTANT: Five minutes, Mr. Lugosi.
HOST: And then what's gonna happen?
CRISWELL: In 1960, the automobile will have retractable wings, so it can fly.
HOST: Sounds like a heck of a way to beat
CRISWELL: By 1970, Man will have colonized Mars. Millions of people will live
ED: Wow! Ain't that something.
BELA: Greetings. I am the Count.
HOST: Greetings. I am Slick Slomopavitz, Seeker of Adventure.
HOST: Say, that's a funny place to sleep.
BELA: It is my home.
HOST: Oh, tract housing, huh? I guess I shouldn't complain about my duplex in Burbank. What a dump. Some places have a Murphy bed, this place has a Murphy shower. I still don't know where to hang the towels!
BELA: Uh, beg to differ.
HOST: "Beg to differ?!" Hey, I'm talkin' about my duplex in Burbank!
BELA: ( terrified, groping ) Uh, Greetings. I am the Count.
BACKSTAGE: Ed covers his face in embarrassment.
HOST: I told you we should've gotten
ED: Bela, don't worry. You're better than all this crap.
BELA: ( distraught ) I never said I could ad-lib.
ED: Forget about it. We'll make our new movie, and you'll be a star again.
CRISWELL: privilege to meet you. Allow me to introduce myself. I am CRISWELL!
BELA: ( morose ) It's a pleasure.
CRISWELL: Ah, cheer up! Don't lose heart over what happened tonight. I predict that your next project will be an outstanding success!
ED: And who may you be?
CRISWELL: And who may you be?
ED: Edward Wood, Sir.
CRISWELL: Ah. The director of "Glen Or H-how'd you know?!
ED: ( startled ) H-how'd you know?!
CRISWELL: I'm Criswell. I know all.
CRISWELL: Bring me two more Beefeater martinis. Eddie will have another whiskey, Dagmar's a Rum-and-coke, Moustapha and King are chablis hey Bela, would you like a wine?
BELA: No. I never drink wine. Hey Cris, how'd you know we'd be living on Mars by 1970? How'd you know it wouldn't be 1975, or even
ED: Hey Cris, how'd you know we'd be living on Mars by 1970? How'd you know it wouldn't be 1975, or even
CRISWELL: I guessed.
ED: I don't understand.
CRISWELL: I made it up. It's horseshit!
CRISWELL: There's no such thing as a psychic. People believe my folderol because I wear a turban and a black tuxedo.
ED: It's that easy?
CRISWELL: Eddie, we're in show biz! It's all about razzle-dazzle. Appearances. If you dress nice and talk well, people will swallow anything.
CONSERVATIVE MAN: Excuse me. We're here for the Wood Ah, that would be in the Venetian Room, sir.
DOORMAN: Ah, that would be in the Venetian Room, sir.
HIT!": In a private back room, Ed is throwing a LAVISH BACKERS PARTY. All his riff-raff friends are dressed in tuxedos and gowns, strutting about with flutes of champagne like they're extras in "The Great Gatsby." Bewildered POTENTIAL BACKERS wander around. Ed shmoozes them.
ED: We're gonna have the most terrifying monster ever seen on film! A ghastly creature created from an atomic I don't like scary movies. I go more for ones with love stories.
BACKER'S WIFE: I don't like scary movies. I go more for ones with love stories.
ED: ( without dropping a beat ) Well that's what this movie is. a heartbreaking romance! It's about a young reporter, Janet Lawton, in love with a young cop, Dick Craig.
ED: What do you think you're doin'?!
CONRAD: These shoes are itchy.
ED: around, with good posture. You want these people to think we have class. Otherwise they'll never invest in our
AMAZED BACKER: Bernie, get a load of this guy!
TOR: ( proud of his size ) Biceps 22! Chest 62! Stomach 54!
AMAZED BACKER: Whew! You're quite a specimen. And you're gonna be in the picture?
TOR: Yes. I play Lobo!
HICK BACKER: Mr. Lugosi, I can't believe I'm meeting you in person. This is one of the most exciting moments of my Thank you. And you are?
BELA: Thank you. And you are?
HICK BACKER: Charlie Johnson! I manufacture toothpaste tubes.
CRISWELL: I predict "Bride Of The Atom" will be the biggest moneymaker of all
ED: And this is lovely starlet Dolores Fuller, who will play Janet Lawton.
SOUTHERN BACKER: And how much will this picture cost?
ED: In a normal studio it would be half-a-million, with all their wasteful overhead and fancy offices. But because we're more efficient, we can bring it in for seventy grand!
SOUTHERN BACKER: Hmm. Well I'll consider it.
ED: Goodbye! Goodbye!
BELA: ( to Ed ) So how'd we do?
ED: ( faking a big smile, but SOTTO We didn't make a dime.
VALET: That's twenty-five cents, sir.
WIFE: I gave all my money to the
DOLORES: Ed, the landlord called again. He wants his money.
ED: Tell him "Bride" is in pre- Ed, the landlord doesn't care.
DOLORES: Ed, the landlord doesn't care.
ED: That's the problem! about my movie! I'm tryin' so hard, I don't know what else to do!
DOLORES: Don't get angry at me. Maybe you just need a day job.
ED: ( upset ) Dolores, don't you understand? I'm a director now! I made "Glen Or Glenda." Directing is my day job.
DOLORES: ( irate ) All I know is, ever since "Glen Or Glenda," all you do is booze it up and wear my clothes!
PAUL MARCO: Uh, yoo-hoo. Excuse me! Sorry to interrupt, but I got some big news.
ED: ( dour ) Well my cousin Fred met this dame from back East. She's from "old money," and he thinks she's loaded. And here's the kicker: She's very interested in the picture business!
PAUL MARCO: Well my cousin Fred met this dame from back East. She's from "old money," and he thinks she's loaded. And here's the kicker: She's very interested in the picture business!
LORETTA: Pleased to meet you. I'm Loretta I understand you just moved here?
ED: I understand you just moved here?
LORETTA: Yes. Hollywood is oh so exciting.
WAITER: Water, Ma'am?
LORETTA: ( suddenly freaking out ) No! No water! NO LIQUIDS! I'm terribly allergic to them!
ED: So my associate Mr. Marco tells me you may be interested in investing in a motion picture.
LORETTA: Perhaps a small amount of money. How much do one of your motion pictures cost?
ED: For this one, we need $60,000.
LORETTA: That's all?? That seems very reasonable for an entire picture.
ED: Perhaps you'd like to look at the Oh my, this is very interesting. Say. do you think it would be possible for me to maybe play one of these parts?
LORETTA: Oh my, this is very interesting. Say. do you think it would be possible for me to maybe play one of these parts?
ED: ( very enthused ) Oh, of course!! There's a couple characters you'd be perfect for: The secretary at the newspaper office, or the file clerk!
LORETTA: Hmm. Those sound kind of small. Oh, here's one that looks good: Janet Lawton. I'd sure like to play her.
ED: J-Janet Lawton???
LORETIA: Yes, Janet Layton is clearly the part to play. She's got some real meaty scenes! Can't you just see me in that part??
ED: Uh. yeah. You'd be perfect.
ED: It was the only way I could get the movie made!
DOLORES: Who do you think's been paying the rent?! Who helped type your script, and did all your grunt work?!
ED: I'm sorry! What did you want me to I wanted you to say, "No! I wrote the part for my girlfriend Dolores."
DOLORES: I wanted you to say, "No! I wrote the part for my girlfriend Dolores."
ED: But there's plenty of other parts.
DOLORES: ( nervous ) The secretary. Or the file clerk.
ED: ( nervous ) The secretary. Or the file clerk.
DOLORES: YOU ASSHOLE!
YOU ASSHOLE!: She hurls a pot at Ed. WHACK! It slams him in the head.
ED: This is gonna be Bela's laboratory, so it should be real impressive! Like one of those mad scientist movies. I want beakers, and test tubes, and one of those electrical things that buzzes!
BUNNY: You mean a Tesla coil?
ED: If you say so.
TOR: Edvard! I haf question 'bout script. My vife Greta, she read. And she no Really? Was the third act too No. She tink Lobo is waste of my time. Lobo don't talk.
ED: Really? Was the third act too No. She tink Lobo is waste of my time. Lobo don't talk.
TOR: ( trying to be polite ) No. She tink Lobo is waste of my time. Lobo don't talk.
ED: But Tor, it's a starring part! You're second billed.
TOR: Bela, he talk. Loretta, she talk. But Tor, he no talk.
ED: Tor, dialogue is overrated. You look at the classic film actors, who are they? Fairbanks. Chaplin. They didn't talk! They did it all with their face.
TOR: ( still bothered ) But Greta say
LORETTA: Eddie, which dress do you like I don't know. Hey Bill, which dress is better for you, the green or the red one?
ED: I don't know. Hey Bill, which dress is better for you, the green or the red one?
CAMERAMAN BILL: Which one
ED: ( confused ) What do you mean?
CAMERAMAN BILL: I mean I can't see the difference. I'm color-blind. But I like the dark gray one.
LATER: The crew is shooting on a spooky castle foyer set.
ED: Bela enters, wearing a lab coat costume. As he slowly crosses, the old man rubs his hands fiendishly. Ed YELLS live direction through a megaphone.
ACTION!: Bela enters, wearing a lab coat costume. As he slowly crosses, the old man rubs his hands fiendishly. Ed YELLS live direction through a megaphone.
ED: Okay, you're Dr. Eric Vornoff. You're upset. You've worked so hard on this experisent, and you don't want to see it fail. No, you're not that upset. You want to keep moving. You wanna cross the Okay, CUT! BEAUTIFUL! PRINT IT!
ED: Alright, let's go immediately to Scene 52. Tor, are you in place?
TOR'S VOICE: Okay, CUE RAINSTORM!
ED: Okay, CUE RAINSTORM!
ED: And roll camera! ACTION!
ED: Okay, you're Lobo. You're upset. You've worked so hard helping Dr. Vornoff on this experiment, and you don't want to see it fail. No, you're not that upset. You want to keep moving. You wanna cross the Okay, CUT! PERFECT! PRINT IT!
OFF STAGE: Bela talks to Tor.
BELA: At Universal, they shot two scenes a day. Eddie can knock off twenty or thirty! He's incredible.
CAMERAMAN BILL: Hey Ed, shouldn't we do another take? Big Baldy kinda got stuck in the No, it's fine. It's real! In actuality, Lobo would struggle with that problem every day.
ED: No, it's fine. It's real! In actuality, Lobo would struggle with that problem every day.
ED: Wow, this lab looks great. Except why is there a stove and We couldn't afford any more props. If it seems weird, maybe you can add a scene where they eat dinner.
PAUL MARCO: We couldn't afford any more props. If it seems weird, maybe you can add a scene where they eat dinner.
ED: Nah, it'll work. Where's Bela?
ED: Bela, are you ready?
BELA: ( he groggily wakes up ) Mmph? Where am I?
ED: You're shooting "Bride Of The Atom." Scene 85.
ED: You'll be sitting on the right.
BELA: ( he glares at the sparking Tesla I'm not getting near that goddamn thing. One of those burned me on "The Return Of Chandu."
ED: Okay. Then you'll be sitting on the
ED: Here's the scene. Loretta, you're in a trance. You glide in and get on the operating table. Now Tor, you're supposed to tie her down. But you have an angora fetish. and when you rub that swatch of angora, it makes you refuse so Bela has to discipline you.
TOR: WIPE TO:
ED: BELA ( as VORNOFF )
ACTION!: BELA ( as VORNOFF )
BELA: "Dear, you are a woman of super strength and beauty. A lovely vision of exquisitely beauty shit!" Damn! Eddie, I'm sorry I can't remember all this. I'm an old man. It's too long.
ED: That's fine, Bela. We're still rolling. Just say "Dear, you're "Dear, you're lovely." "Strap her to the table."
BELA: ( he snaps back into character ) "Dear, you're lovely." ( he turns to Tor ) "Strap her to the table."
BELA: "Do as I command you!"
BELA: "I'll teach you to disobey me!"
ED: And, CUT!!! Impeccable!
ON TOR: He dances about happily.
TOR: I love being movie star!
LORETTA: Ow. Not so hard, Tor.
ON ED: A SURLY STAGE MANAGER strides over to Ed.
ED: Okay, I'll get you the money later.
ED: Sorry to bother you while we're shooting, but the guy who owns the stage needs his money.
LORETTA: Well then you should pay him, shouldn't you?
ED: ( he smiles ) Yeah. Exactly!
ED: I kinda need it now.
LORETTA: ( baffled ) What are you looking at me like that for? I already gave you my three hundred.
ED: Yeah. Well I need the other What other sixty-thousand?
LORETTA: What other sixty-thousand?
ED: The other sixty-thousand you said you'd give me.
LORETTA: You misunderstood. I gave you everything I have in the world: Three-hundred dollars.
ED: Oh my God.
HIT!": The whole crowd is there, dressed up. Bela sits in the corner, knocking back a drink.
BELA: Here we go again.
PAUL MARCO: So is Dolores coming?
BUNNY: ( very catty ) I can't imagine why. I wouldn't put up with a boyfriend who sold me out for three-hundred dollars.!
ON ED: Ed stands with a circle of POTENTIAL BACKERS. He has an edge of desperation we've never seen before.
ED: .lemme tell you, you can't lose. It's scary! And if you don't like that, it's romantic! Bela Lugosi portrays Dr. Vornoff, and lovely ingenue Loretta King is reporter Janet Lawton.
POTENTIAL BACKER: Hmm. Lugosi looks pretty old. Which role is Vampira playing?
ED: ( bewildered ) Why do you ask??
POTENTIAL BACKER: Well I see her standing over there.
ED: Well. she's playing Could you excuse me one moment??
ED: Excuse me, Miss Vampira?
VAMPIRA: ( sweaty ) You don't know me, but my name is Ed Wood. I'm a film producer. I'm currently in production on a science-fiction piece, with Bela Lugosi and Swedish wrestler Tor Johnson. And I saw you here, and I thought: Kismet!
ED: ( sweaty ) You don't know me, but my name is Ed Wood. I'm a film producer. I'm currently in production on a science-fiction piece, with Bela Lugosi and Swedish wrestler Tor Johnson. And I saw you here, and I thought: Kismet!
VAMPIRA: I don't understand. Do you want my No. I think my film is perfect for You want me to show it on my TV program? Well I got nothing to do with that. You should call up the station manager at Channel Seven
ED: No. I think my film is perfect for You want me to show it on my TV program? Well I got nothing to do with that. You should call up the station manager at Channel Seven
VAMPIRA: You want me to show it on my TV program? Well I got nothing to do with that. You should call up the station manager at Channel Seven
ED: ( unyielding ) No! I don't want you to show the movie, I want you to be in it! See, maybe I should explain: We started shooting, but then after three days we got shut down. So we're having a backers party, to raise some more money. Perhaps you'd like to come next door and meet some of the
VAMPIRA: Uh, look, I'm with some friends, and we're about to eat
ED: ( begging ) Please! It'll only take a minute. You can have some hors d'oeuvres, and meet my backers! There's a really nice dentist from Oxnard.
VAMPIRA: ( pissed off ) Look buddy, I'm a big star. I've got real offers from real studios. I don't need to blow some dentist for a part. So forget it!
BACKER: ( to another backer ) I'm getting a bad feeling about this. Let's get out of here.
ED: Where are you guys going?! You can't Goodbye, Mr. Wood.
BACKER: ( running out ) Goodbye, Mr. Wood.
ED: ( insane ) You can't go! You haven't seen the
ED: Fine! SCREW YOU! If you don't have the balls to roll the dice, then I don't want your stinking money!!
ED: Please, come back!
ED: Goddamn landlord.
DOLORES: I told you this was gonna happen.
ED: Maybe if you'd come to the backers party, I would've gotten the money.
DOLORES: That's moronic. Why would a bit player impress a backer?
ED: ( he starts yelling ) Look, how many times can I say I'm sorry? I blew it! I thought she was That's a good reason to dump your your skull I just recast the part!
DOLORES: That's a good reason to dump your your skull I just recast the part!
ED: your skull I just recast the part!
DOLORES: You're a fuckin' mess.
ED: So WHAT?? Look, we gotta figure out where we're gonna stay.
DOLORES: I'm going to my mother's.
ED: Does she have room for me?
DOLORES: I think you should stay with one of your friends.
ED: Bela, I don't know what I'm doin' Stop worrying. This is going to raise your spirits.
BELA: Stop worrying. This is going to raise your spirits.
LECTURER: Thou eternal sun, who has covered the consciousness with thy golden disc, do thou remove the veil so that I may see the truth within?
ED: What is this place?
BELA: This is the Philosophical Research Society. A refuge for free thinkers. I've been coming here for twenty .for the truth which is within thee is within me. And I am Truth.
LECTURER: .for the truth which is within thee is within me. And I am Truth.
BELA: Most people in this country, they know nothing, about Eastern mysticism. They are afraid of it. But I am open-minded. It gives me We have the wisdom to govern and the divine right to inherit the earth in good condition. We have the power to build worlds.
LECTURER: We have the wisdom to govern and the divine right to inherit the earth in good condition. We have the power to build worlds.
ED: Was I wrong to cast Loretta?
BELA: Bad decisions are easy to live with. Forget. Just keep looking forward.
ED: But was it a bad decision? At the time, I thought her money would save the movie.
BELA: Eddie, you screwed up.
ED: ( he nods ) Yeah, I did.
LATER: The lecture is over. The speaker shakes hands with people. Bela leads Ed along.
BELA: In life, the decisions that haunt you are the ones where you just don't know. where right or wrong will never be answered. Years ago, the Hungarians contacted me. The government wanted me to come home, to be Minister of Culture.
ED: It was a very impressive offer. Fancy offices, a big home. I'd be treated like a king.
BELA: It was a very impressive offer. Fancy offices, a big home. I'd be treated like a king.
ED: So why didn't you do it?
BELA: I didn't know if it was a trick. They might arrest me and throw me in a gulag. I am Hungary's most famous emigrant. they'd use me as a lesson to anyone who tries to leave.
ED: But maybe not.
BELA: Correct. So instead, I stayed here, waiting for my comeback. Always hoping. the next film, the next film. that would be the one.
ED: Your next film. That
ED: .and then Dr. Vornoff falls in the pit, and his own octopus attacks and eats him! The End. Whew! That's quite a story. So you made the movie, and now you want to make it again?
ED: ( gently correcting him ) No. We shot ten minutes of the movie, and now we're looking for completion funds. Son, you're too vague. I come from the world of business. I need to know what I get for my investment.
ED: Movies are very popular. You could make a lot of money. Yeah, but most of 'em flop, don't they? What am I tangibly guaranteed?
ED: Well. you get "Executive Producer" That don't mean diddley. BILLY BOB! You're cutting 'em TOO
ED: Mr. McCoy, how can I make you happy? Cut to the chase, heh? That's good! That's very good. Okay, two things. Number one: I want the movie to end with a big explosion. Sky full of smoke.
ED: But the story ends with Dr. Vornoff falling in the pit Not anymore. And number two: I've got a son. He's a little slow but a good boy. And something tells me he'd make a hell of a leading man.
WRESTLING COACH: Tor, you got a phone call!
TOR: Heh? NOW?
WRESTLING COACH: They said it was an emergency!
TOR: ED'S VOICE
ED'S VOICE: Tor, this is Ed! Glad I could find you! I got the money, and we resume shooting tomorrow morning!
TOR: But I'm in Utah.
ED'S VOICE: Then you'll have to drive all night! I'm counting on you, big guy. Breakfast is at seven.
PAUL MARCO: This is unbelievable! I woulda bet a million bucks that Ed wouldn't finish this picture.
CAMERAMAN BILL: It ain't finished yet. Anything could happen. Uh-oh. Stay out of scratching
BUNNY: Uh-oh. Stay out of scratching
AT DOLORES: Ed runs over. Dolores is beautifully made-up, and wearing a furry angora sweater. Ed speaks, awkwardly.
ED: Honey, you made it! I wasn't sure you got my message.
DOLORES: ( icy ) Of course I'm here. Today is the file clerk's big scene.
ED: That's right.
DOLORES: I see the usual gang of misfits and dope addicts are here. Say, who's the lug?
TONY: "Now Janet, I want you straying away oops staying away from the old Willows Place." Ed shrugs.
ED: That's Tony McCoy. He's playing Lieutenant Dick Craig.
DOLORES: Oh really? How much money did he put But his dad gave me fifty grand.
ED: ( beat ) But his dad gave me fifty grand.
DOLORES: ( snide ) Wood Productions. The mark of That's the main thing.
ED: That's the main thing.
ON STAGE: The set is a one-wall "office hallway": A doorway and a water cooler. Loretta sits in a make-up chair, as Harry works on Harry turns, surprised. Dolores stands behind him. There's a thick tension. He smiles anxiously.
LORETA: Oh, you're Dolores?! I've heard so much about you! I'm Loretta King. Here, take the chair.
DOLORES: ( bitchy ) Don't be silly let Harry finish. You still need more work.
LORETTA: No, I'm done. All I needed was a Mm, that mole still shows.
DOLORES: Mm, that mole still shows.
ED: Ladies! You both look fine. Why don't we talk about the scene? Okay. Janet Lawton has discovered that Dr. Vornoff bought the old Willows estate. So now she wants to prove that all the monster stories are true.
DOLORES: Eddie, what's
ED: ( thrown off ) Oh. Er. well you're the file clerk. You're hurrying into the next room, when you bump into Janet.
DOLORES: But what's our relationship? Are we good friends, or is she just a casual acquaintance?
ED: ( annoyed ) Dolores, I got five days to shoot this movie. Quit kidding around.
DOLORES: Of course it was.
CRISWELL: Bravo! Bravo! Magnifico!
ED: ( he smiles ) Cris, you made it. Thanks a lot.
CRISWELL: My pleasure. I'm always happy to assist in a little larceny.
TOR: My head is cold.
CRISWELL: You know how much this car cost me?
CONRAD: Ten thousand dollars.
CRISWELL: ONE DOLLAR! Miss Mae West herself sold it to me. She said, Cris, you belong in a pink
CRISWELL: Incidentally, you going to scratch my car.?
ED: ( cocky ) I told you, the octopus is made of rubber. This is a piece o' cake.
PAUL MARCO: Ed, you said you were getting Uh, I couldn't reach the guy. he was in meetings all day. But this'll be great, I promise!
ED: Uh, I couldn't reach the guy. he was in meetings all day. But this'll be great, I promise!
TOR: I'm no good at climbink.
TOR: I'm good at bashink!!
CRISWELL: Hey, keep it down. My publicist will throttle me if we get caught.
ED: Oh. I thought they kept this open.
TOR: Lobo will fix!
CONRAD: PAUL MARCO
PAUL MARCO: This place gives se the creeps. Let's get the hell out of here.
ED: Not so fast. First we have to get it down.
THEIR POV: A giant OCTOPUS is lashed to the ceiling.
LATER: Conrad and Criswell are way up on the catwalk, holding onto dangling Paul by his belt. Paul leans way out, reaching for the octopus. He shouts nervously.
PAUL MARCO: You're sure this is gonna work?
PAUL MARCO: ED ( O.S. )
WIDE VIEW: Standing straight below is Tor. The Swede has his arms outstretched, waiting. Ed supervises a good distance away. He motions to Paul. Paul gulps, then unties the octopus. It drops incredibly fast. The thing must weigh half a ton. Tor's eyes widen. And the octopus smashes straight on top of him.
BAM!: Tor is gone from sight. One of the eight tentacles snaps off.
CRISWELL: Oh my God. We killed him.
ED: Tor! Are you okay?!
TOR: Bedder than wrestlink!
ANGRY VOICE: Hey! What are you doing?!
CRISWELL: Thank God Tor broke the fence.
TONY: "Now Janet, I want you staying away from the old Willows Place."
ED: You don't understand! The octopus is supposed to live in a lake!
CONRAD: This is kind of a stream
ED: NO! It has to be UNDERWATER!
BELA: Eddie, I'm so tired. I don't know if I can handle a night shoot.
ED: Nonsense! You look great Look, uh, why don't you lie down and take a little nap? We'll film around you for a while.
ED: Thanks, buddy.
ED: Hey. This is looking good! Paul, where's the octopus motor?
PAUL MARCO: What octopus motor?
ED: You know, to make the legs move
PAUL MARCO: ( defensive ) Hey, don't blame me! You didn't say anything about no motor when I was up on that ceiling!
BELA: Let's shoot this fucker! Where do I go?
ED: You'll be fighting with the octopus.
BELA: ( he points at the water ) What happened to the stream?
ED: This'll look a lot better. We have to match the stock footage of the octopus underwater.
BELA: Oh, for Christ's sake. Goddamn, it's cold!
BELA: Goddamn, it's cold!
ED: Once you're in it, it warms up.
BELA: Fuck you! Hey, toss me that J.D.
BELA: Okay! How do we turn this thing on?
ED: Bela, somebody misplaced the motor. So when you wrestle the octopus, shake the legs a bit, to make it look like it's killing you.
BELA: Do you know I turned down After I did "Dracula," the studio offered me "Frankenstein"! But I turned it down, the part wasn't sexy enough. It was too degrading for a big star like me.
ED: After I did "Dracula," the studio offered me "Frankenstein"! But I turned it down, the part wasn't sexy enough. It was too degrading for a big star like me.
BELA: After I did "Dracula," the studio offered me "Frankenstein"! But I turned it down, the part wasn't sexy enough. It was too degrading for a big star like me.
ED: Bela, I've got twenty-five scenes to shoot tonight.
BELA: Don't let me slow you down.
ED: Alright! Let's put it on film.
ED: Bela starts flailing around the octopus legs and SCREAMING in horror. This image is truly ridiculous. Ed is pleased. Some crew members nod: Pretty good.
ACTION!: Bela starts flailing around the octopus legs and SCREAMING in horror. This image is truly ridiculous. Ed is pleased. Some crew members nod: Pretty good.
ED: And CUT!
ED: C'mon! Just one more day! Just have some coffee, you'll feel better!
TONY: Mr. Wood, I only got one hour of Yeah? Well I got feel great!
ED: Yeah? Well I got feel great!
ED: Bela. I just wanna thank you again for last night.
BELA: ( exhausted ) That's fine, Eddie. All in the line of duty.
ED: No. Seriously. I want you to know how much I appreciate what you've done for me. A great man like you shouldn't have to run around in freezing water at four in the Well, there aren't too many other fellas I'd do it for.
BELA: Well, there aren't too many other fellas I'd do it for.
ED: ( he smiles, then pulls out a I wrote something special for you. I got to thinking about all the sacrifices you've made. and so I wrote you a new final speech.
BELA: ( still reading ) Eddie, this is quite a scene.
ED: I know it's a lot to give you at the last second.
BELA: These lines I'll have no problem
STROWSKI: "Our government wants you to return. to continue your experiments there. Where you can have everything at your disposal." "My dear Professor Strowski, twenty years ago I was banned from my home land. I was classed as a madman a charlatan outlawed in the world of science which previously honored me as a genius!" "Now here in this forsaken jungle hell, I have proven that I am "Yes, the authorities have learned how correct your findings were. So I am here sent to bring you home."
STROWSKI: "Yes, the authorities have learned how correct your findings were. So I am here sent to bring you home."
BELA: ( impassioned ) "Home. I have no home. Hunted. despised. living like an animal the jungle is my home! But I will show the world that I can be its master. I shall perfect my own race of people a race of atomic supermen that will conquer the
ED: Cut. It's a wrap.
CRISWELL: Yes. There is nothing more I can't believe this! YES! My father ran a mortuary it's an old habit!
BELA: Yes. There is nothing more I can't believe this! YES! My father ran a mortuary it's an old habit!
CRISWELL: I can't believe this! YES! My father ran a mortuary it's an old habit!
BELA: YES! My father ran a mortuary it's an old habit!
CRISWELL: YES! My father ran a mortuary it's an old habit!
GIRLFRIEND #1: "McCoy Meat Packing"? Are you sure there's a party here?
VAMPIRA: ( holding an INVITATION ) Yeah, I got this invitation. It's a "Bride Of The Atom" party, whatever that means.
PAUL MARCO: "Glen Or Glenda," now that was a hell of a picture.
CONRAD: Well, this new one's gonna be a hundred times better.
PAUL MARCO: Is that possible?
VOICE: Go, baby, go!
VAMPIRA: I don't believe it. It's
DOLORES: You people are INSANE! Take a look around you're all FREAKS!
DOLORES: You're wasting your lives making SHIT! Nobody cares! These movies are TERRIBLE! I can't take it any longer!
ED: Dolores, wait!
DOLORES: Ed, it's over. I need a normal life.
ED: ( hurt ) Did you really mean those things you
DOLORES: I'm tired of living on the fringe.
ED: But you used to say
DOLORES: Ed. I just stuck it out so you could finish your movie. Now that it's done, so am I.
ED: TOR ( on phone ) TOR ( on phone )
ED: No, I was just doin' a little work. Bullchit! You been like dis too many days. I want to cheer you up.
TOR: Edvard, you come!
TOR: I'm so happy you visit. Meet my family! Greta, Karl, and Connie!
CONNIE: Pass the meatballs.
KARL: This strudel is delicious, Mama.
TOR: Hey! You're not eatink.
ED: Uh, I don't have much of an appetite The food will make you feel bedder. Look at me I'm da happiest guy I
TOR: The food will make you feel bedder. Look at me I'm da happiest guy I
ED: I'd be happy too, if I had such a great family.
TOR: Don't worry. You just haven't met right woman yet. Oopsy. That cabbage goes right through me. Greta, your husband is a terrific actor. You should come down and visit the set.
ED: Greta, your husband is a terrific actor. You should come down and visit the set.
GRETA: I don't think so.
ED: No, it's really no problem at all!
GRETA: ( steely ) I do not approve of what you do with my husband Tor. He is not a monster. These horror pictures are
TOR: Look, it happened again!
ED: Tor, I should be getting home.
TOR: Nonsense! You must try our hot glug.
LATER: It's very late. Tor and Ed sit in the living room, drinking from a steaming pot of hot stilled wine. They are smashed.
TOR: My friend, you tink Greta is first woman I ever see? No! Many duds, before I find her.
ED: But I thought me and Dolores had Forget her! Move on. A good lookink boy like you as you can have any girl you wish.
TOR: Forget her! Move on. A good lookink boy like you as you can have any girl you wish.
ON ED: He stares at the TV, then picks up the phone.
VAMPIRA: God, we need some better jokes on this show.
ASSISTANT: Vampira, you got a phone call.
VAMPIRA: At this hour? Vampira! Hi, this is Ed Wood.
ED'S VOICE: Vampira! Hi, this is Ed Wood.
VAMPIRA: ED'S VOICE
ED'S VOICE: Ed Wood! You came to my party. I directed "Bride Of The Atom"!
VAMPIRA: Oh. Yeah. You.
ED'S VOICE: Well, I was wondering if maybe sometime you'd like to go out, and maybe grab some dinner.
VAMPIRA: You mean like a date? I thought you were a fag.
ED'S VOICE: ME?! No, uh, I'm just a Isn't that the same thing?
VAMPIRA: Isn't that the same thing?
ED'S VOICE: No, no! I like girls. So how 'bout Look, you seem like a nice guy, Ed, but you're just not my type. But keep in touch. Let me know when your movie opens.
VAMPIRA: ( uncomfortable ) Look, you seem like a nice guy, Ed, but you're just not my type. ( beat ) But keep in touch. Let me know when your movie opens.
ED'S VOICE: Excuse me. Is that angora?
NORMA: Why. yes.
ED: Don't you think angora has a tactile sensuality lacking in all other I suppose. It's very expensive.
NORMA: I suppose. It's very expensive.
ED: It's made from specially-bred rabbits that live in the Himalayas.
NORMA: What are you, an angora wholesaler?
ED: No, I work in pictures. I'm a Ah, c'mon! Nobody does all that.
NORMA: ( she laughs ) Ah, c'mon! Nobody does all that.
ED: Two people do. Orson Welles and me.
NORMA: You know, you're a very attractive
ED: You know, you're a very attractive
NORMA: My goodness, you're embarrassing me.
ED: You shouldn't be embarrassed by the Mind if I order some hotcakes.?
CRISWELL: So who's the surprise for?
PAUL MARCO: I dunno. Ed was real mysterious. All he'd say was it's a surprise Isn't that like him! And isn't that like us that we show up anyway.
CRISWELL: Isn't that like him! And isn't that like us that we show up anyway.
CRISWELL: Excuse me. We're here for the Wood They've rented Stage 12. Drive straight back.
GUARD: They've rented Stage 12. Drive straight back.
BELA: So what are we doing here?
TOR: Nobody knows. But there's a lotta
ED: Excuse me! Could everyone please quiet down? First of all, I want to thank you, all my good friends, for being here tonight. And second, if you're wondering what the big surprise is. well, TONIGHT I'M GETTING MARRIED!!
ED: Everybody, this is
BELA: Who the fuck is she??
TOR: I never heard of her.
ED: And Bela, I want you to be the best
LATER: The wedding is in progress. The crowd is seated. A MINISTER performs the ceremony with Ed and Norma.
MINISTER: .Norma, do you promise to love, honor, and cherish.
BUNNY: I didn't even know he had a I hear she's an actress who gave him Nah, I heard she's his childhood sweetheart from Poughkeepsie.
PAUL MARCO: ( he taps him on the shoulder ) I hear she's an actress who gave him Nah, I heard she's his childhood sweetheart from Poughkeepsie.
CONRAD: Nah, I heard she's his childhood sweetheart from Poughkeepsie.
CRISWELL: I predict it's Dolores in a mask.
MINISTER: .in sickness and in health, till death do you part?
ED: I do.
MINISTER: ( he smiles ) Then I now pronounce you man and
THE RECEPTION: Everyone's drinking and dancing. Ed proudly introduces Norma to his buddies.
ED: Norma, this is Bela Bela, this is Norma. Norma, this is Tor Tor, this is Norma. Norma, this is Paul Paul, this is Norma.
PAUL MARCO: ( he can't resist ) So how long have you known Eddie?
NORMA: ( sweetly ) Since Tuesday.
CRISWELL: Edward, are you sure you know what you're doing?
ED: Yeah. It seems a little crazy, but sometimes you just know. She's perfect for me.
ED: Oop, that's our cue! Honey, we gotta go. GOODBYE,
EVERYBODY!: Ed and Norma run out the door. The crowd hurries after them.
OUTSIDE: Ed and Norma jump into his Nash. It says "Just Married" and is festooned with dangling tin cans. The car screeches away. The cans RATTLE NOISILY, then slowly fade into the distance.
NORMA: Eddie, I'm just a small-town girl. I've never done this before.
ED: ( kissing her ) Don't worry, I'll teach you.
NORMA: Be understanding. I don't know
NORMA: What the heck is THIS?!!
ED: Honey, I have a little secret to share with you.
NORMA: Stay away from me! You're perverted!
ED: Please, be compassionate. I'm your No you're not! This marriage was never consummated. I'm getting an
NORMA: No you're not! This marriage was never consummated. I'm getting an
ED: Bela, let me in! Bela, it's Eddie.
BELA: Why are you here??
ED: Shit! Bela, what's with the gun?
BELA: Why aren't you on your honeymoon? Where's Myrna?
ED: Norma. She changed her mind. She doesn't wanna marry me. Can you put down the gun?
ED: What are you doing?
BELA: I was thinking about killing myself.
ED: Jesus Christ, what an evening. What happened?
BELA: ( near tears ) Eddie, I received a letter from the government. They're cutting off my unemployment. That's all I've got. Without it, I can't pay the rent.
ED: Don't you have any savings?
BELA: I'm obsolete. I have nothing to live for. Tonight, I should die. And you should come with me.
ED: Buddy, I don't know if that's such a good idea.
BELA: It'll be wonderful. We'll be at peace. In the afterlife, you don't have to worry about finding work.
ED: Bela, I'm on your side. C'mon, give me the gun. If you give me the gun, I'll make you a drink. What are you drinking?
BELA: Ed stares in anguish.
ED: Straight up or on the rocks?
ED: Don't worry.
BELA: I'm sorry, Eddie. I'm so sorry.
ED: Don't worry. Everything's gonna be all right.
NURSE: My goodness, you gave me the willies. You look like that Dracula guy.
BELA: ( very somber ) My name is Bela Lugosi. I wish to commit myself.
NURSE: For what reason?
BELA: I have been a drug addict for twenty years. I need help.
ED: ( beat ) You're sleeping in a tuxedo.
KATHY: ( beat ) You're sleeping in a tuxedo.
ED: I got married last night.
KATHY: Oh. Congratulations.
ED: The marriage already ended.
KATHY: Oh. My condolences.
ED: What are you making?
KATHY: Booties for my father. He gets cold in this hospital.
ED: How long's he been here?
KATHY: This is my thirteenth pair.
ED: Excuse me. Doctor? I'm with Mr. Lugosi. How is he?
DOCTOR: Well. there's a lot of junk in his system for such an old man. Apparently, he was addicted to morphine, tried to kick it, and got re-addicted to methadone.
ED: Will he be okay?
DOCTOR: We'll do our best.
ED: Hi, Lillian.
NURSE: ( she smiles ) Hi, Ed. Boy, he's got a lot of visitors today.
ED: He does?
ED: What's going on here?! Excuse me!
ED: Everybody out! This is a hospital! Get out of here.
ED: What happened?!
BELA: ( in a hoarse whisper ) Isn't it wonderful? After all these years, the press is showing an interest again in Bela Lugosi.
ED: ( surprised ) Bela, they're parasites! They just want to exploit you.
BELA: Fine. Let them! There is no such thing as bad press. A man from New York even said he's putting me on the front page! First celebrity to ever check into rehab. When I get out of here, I will be healthy. Strong! I will be primed for my comeback!
KATHY: Oh, it's you again.
ED: Oh, hi.
KATHY: You look beat.
ED: I am. How's your father?
KATHY: He's better. Thank you for asking. How's your friend?
ED: Not good.
KATHY: Well, I made him some booties to cheer him up. They're black to match his cape.
ED: Would you maybe like to get a
DOCTOR: We thought Mr. Lugosi was insured though the Screen Actors Guild.
ED: Isn't he?
DOCTOR: No. They say his eligibility ran out years ago.
ED: Look, he doesn't have any money. but I'll give you everything I've got. I have a few hundred dollars.
DOCTOR: That won't even begin to cover it. He's going to have to leave.
ED: Bela, wake up.
ED: I've got some good news. The doctor says you're all better. You can come Really? I don't feel so great.
BELA: ( so weak, he's barely audible ) Really? I don't feel so great.
ED: No, you look good. And the tests came back fine.
BELA: Eddie, I wanna make another picture. When are we gonna make another Soon, Bela. Soon.
ED: Soon, Bela. Soon.
ED: Please, I just need it for one Ed, if I cut a deal for you, I gotta cut one for everybody.
OLD MANAGER: Ed, if I cut a deal for you, I gotta cut one for everybody.
ED: This is different! It'll mean so much to me. All I need is a camera and a tripod. No lights, no sound. Nothin' fancy.
OLD MANAGER: And that's it?
ED: And one roll of film.
BELA: This is so exciting. Another
BELA: So Eddie, don't we need a sound crew?
ED: No, this is just the second unit. We'll do the main footage later.
BELA: Oh. So what is the scene about?
ED: ( improvising ) Uh. you're a very important and respected man. You're leaving your house. and you're in a hurry to a big social event.
BELA: Okay. But what if I'm not in a hurry? What if I take a moment to slow down and savor the beauty of life? To smell a flower?
ED: ( he smiles ) That's great. Let's do a take.
WIDE: Bela goes in the front door. Ed gets behind the camera, then turns it ON.
ED: Okay, roll camera! Rolling. Scene One, Take One! And. ACTION!
ED: And, cut.
BELA: Eddie, how was I?
ED: ( quiet )
BELA: ( beat ) Now what about my close up?
KATHY: Oh, flowers! I didn't know you were so traditional.
ED: ( a little embarrassed ) I just picked them up on the way They're very nice. ( she smiles sweetly ) Let me get my coat.
KATHY: They're very nice. Let me get my coat.
KATHY: So have you always lived in L.A.?
ED: No. I'm from back east. You know, All-American small town. everybody knew everybody, I was a Boy Scout, my dad worked for the post office.
KATHY: Sounds like you lived in Grovers
KATHY: Did you find it boring?
ED: Nah, 'cause I had my comic books. And I read pulp magazines. And I listened to the radio dramas.
KATHY: Oh. I loved those shows! "Inner Sanctum". "The Shadow"
ED: ( getting excited ) Yeah! Don't forget "Mercury Theatre". And then every Saturday, I'd go to the little movie theater down the street. I even started ushering there.
KATHY: You're not gonna believe the first picture I ever saw. Your friend's.
ED: What do you mean?
KATHY: Ed freaks out.
ED: That's INCREDIBLE! That's the first picture I ever saw!!
WIDE: Mechanical BATS drop down and flap around them.
KATHY: ( beat ) You know, I had to sleep with the lights on for a week after seeing that movie.
ED: I had to sleep with the lights on for a month. But I never missed a Lugosi picture after that.
KATHY: A few years ago, I actually saw him do "Dracula" live. I thought he was much scarier in person.
ED: Kathy, I'm about to tell you something I've never told any girl on a first date. But I think it's important that you know. I like to wear women's clothes.
KATHY: I like to wear women's clothes: Panties, brassieres, sweaters, pumps. it's just something I do. And I can't believe I'm telling you, but I really like you, and I don't want it getting in the way down the
ED: I like to wear women's clothes: Panties, brassieres, sweaters, pumps. it's just something I do. And I can't believe I'm telling you, but I really like you, and I don't want it getting in the way down the
KATHY: Does this mean you don't like sex with girls?
ED: No! I love sex with girls.
KATHY: Oh. Okay.
ED: ( surprised )
KATHY: Ed grins back. A moment.
ED: No, don't worry, I moved on. I was just calling to see if you want to attend the world premiere of my new film, "Bride Of The Monster."
VAMPIRA: ( confused ) Didn't you just make one called "Bride Of The Atom"?
ED: It's the same film. But the distributor wanted a punchier title. C'mon! It's gonna be a big event we're going all out! Bela, Tor, and Cris are coming. You'll have fun!
TOR: My eyes are killink me.
ED: Don't worry. We're almost there.
BELA: ( still hoarse ) Eddie, where are we? We passed that carwash twenty minutes ago.
CRISWELL: I predict we're lost.
VAMPIRA: ( to Bela ) Hey! You wanna watch the hands??
BELA: ( he looks around, baffled ) Has anyone ever been to Downey?
ED: ( he looks around, baffled ) Has anyone ever been to Downey?
THEATER MANAGER: Children, if you don't calm down, there won't be the entertainment.
ANGRY KID: It was supposed to start an hour ago!
TOR: My eyes are burnink.
KATHY: Hey look! There's the theater.
TOR: Where? I can't see nothink!
FRANTIC USHER: Thank God, you're here! They're tearing the place apart!
TOR: Bela moves slowly, very feeble. Vampira smooths out her slinky black dress, then puts her arm around Bela to help him.
FRANTIC USHER: C'mon! This way!
KATHY: I've never been to a premiere before.
INSIDE: It's PANDEMONIUM. People are screaming and shouting. Kids jump up and down, on top of the chairs. Bela, Tor, Vaspira, and Criswell are alarmed. The lights dim on and off. Scratchy SPOOKY MUSIC blasts over the sound system.
ED: Wow. Go knock 'em dead!
WOMAN'S VOICE: It's the blind leading the blind!
TOR: Dis is a nightmare.
CRISWELL: It's show biz.
BELA: What is that?
VAMPIRA: I think they're getting ready to burn this place down.
VAMPIRA: Fuck off!
ON STAGE: The Manager pleads to the mob.
THEATER MANAGER: Children, please! Be calm!
WIDE: The lights suddenly go off. Some girls SCREAM. Ed's panicked. He grabs Kathy and runs down to his friends.
ED: C'mon! We're getting the hell out of here!
TOR: What is happening?
ED: We're escaping!
VAMPIRA: We're gonna die.
ED: Kathy runs frenziedly into the street and throws herself at the cab. It screeches to a halt. Everybody sprints over and jumps in. The cab ROARS away.
KATHY: Kathy runs frenziedly into the street and throws herself at the cab. It screeches to a halt. Everybody sprints over and jumps in. The cab ROARS away.
STOP!: Kathy runs frenziedly into the street and throws herself at the cab. It screeches to a halt. Everybody sprints over and jumps in. The cab ROARS away.
BELA: All of them LAUGH.
BELA: Last night was quite a romp.
ED: Did you see that kid grab Vampira's I envied him. Hell, I envied you too, having a girlfriend that would jump in front of a car like that.
BELA: I envied him. Hell, I envied you too, having a girlfriend that would jump in front of a car like that.
ED: Yeah, she's really somethin'.
BELA: I know none of
BELA: Eddie, I want to thank you. These last few days have been a good time.
ED: I just wish you coulda seen the No problem. I know it by heart.
BELA: No problem. I know it by heart.
BELA: "Home. I have no home. Hunted. despised. living like an animal the jungle is my home! But I will show the world that I can be its master. I shall perfect my own race of people. a race of atomic supermen that will conquer the
TOURIST: Mr. Lugosi, could I have your Boy, that was incredible. You're just as good an actor as you always
BELA: Boy, that was incredible. You're just as good an actor as you always
TOURIST: Boy, that was incredible. You're just as good an actor as you always
BELA: ( beat ) I'm seventy-four, but I don't know it. If the brain is young, then the spirit is still vigorous. like a young man.
KATHY: Ed, this spaghetti sauce is Thanks. It's actually the only thing I know how to make. Hey, can you grab that strainer?
ED: Thanks. It's actually the only thing I know how to make. Hey, can you grab that strainer?
ED: Ugh! Always at the wrong time.
ED: Oh no.
KATHY: What was that?
ED: ( quiet ) Bela died.
THE CASKET: Bela lies inside, made up in his full Dracula outfit. His hair is died black, and he wears the famous cape.
PHOTOGRAPHER #1: Whose crazy idea was it to bury him in the cape?
PHOTOGRAPHER #2: I heard it was in the will. It was how he wanted to be remembered.
VOICE: Do you want me to run it again?
ED: I'd seen him in a coffin so many times, I expected him to jump out.
KATHY: Ed, you've got to snap out of this. Bela's dead you're not!
ED: I might as well be. I made shitty movies that nobody wanted to see. I blew it. All he wanted was a comeback. that last glory.
KATHY: Well you tried
ED: ( angry ) I was a fuckin' HACK! I let people recut the movies, cast their ( beat ) I let Bela down.
REYNOLDS: Mr. Wood?!
REYNOLDS: Mr. Wood, this is Mr. Reynolds, your landlord. Could you please open up?
ED: Mr. Wood, you have bounced your third and final rent check.
REYNOLDS: Mr. Wood, you have bounced your third and final rent check.
ED: ( he sloppily lies ) I'm real sorry. My stockbroker must have transferred the wrong account. C'mon in, I'll write you another one.
REYNOLDS: Hmm, so you're in the picture You could say that
ED: ( rummaging for a check ) You could say that
REYNOLDS: business. My associates and I wish to produce a series of uplifting religious films, on the Apostles. But unfortunately, we don't have enough money.
ED: ( distracted ) Raising money is tough.
REYNOLDS: Oh! Our church has the money for one film. We just don't have it for all
ED: Okay you know what you do? You produce a film in a commercially proven genre. And after it's a hit, you take the profits from that, and make the twelve Apostles' movies.
REYNOLDS: Would that work?
ED: Absolutely! You see this script..?
ED: "Graverobbers From Outer Space"! It's money in the bank.
REYNOLDS: Graverobbers from
ED: From outer space! It's science- fiction. Very big with the kids! If you make this picture, you'll have enough money to finance a HUNDRED religious films! And pay my back rent from the
REYNOLDS: I don't know. this is all a lot to It's a guaranteed blockbuster!
ED: It's a guaranteed blockbuster!
REYNOLDS: Um, I understand that this science friction is popular but don't the big hits always have big stars?
ED: ( in a frenzy ) Yeah, well we've GOT a big star! Bela Lugosi!!
REYNOLDS: ( mystified ) Lugosi??! Didn't be pass on?
ED: Yes, but I've got the last footage he ever shot!
REYNOLDS: Just, it doesn't look like very much.
ED: It's plenty! It's the acorn that will grow a great oak. I'll just find a double to finish his scenes, and we'll release it as "Bela Lugosi's Final Film"
ED: Bunny! We're making another film! Yeah I got the Baptist Church of Beverly Hills to put up the cash!
PAUL MARCO: Ed, I got the Lugosi lookalikes Great! Bring 'em in! Bunny, I gotta
ED: Great! Bring 'em in! Bunny, I gotta
ED: Too tall. too short. And this guy doesn't work at all.
PAUL MARCO: Well I was thinkin' like, when Bela played "Fu Manchu."
ED: That was Karloff. Paul, you gotta try harder. I don't want this film to be haif-assed. This time, we go for the quality.
ED: And by the way, keep Sunday free. The producers want all of us to get
ED: You know, when you rewrite a script, it just gets better and better!
KATHY: Do you want your buttons on the left or the right?
ED: The left. It's more natural. Hey, I've got a scene where the aliens have the ultimate bomb. What would that be made of?
KATHY: Uh, atomic energy?
ED: No. They're beyond that! They're smarter than the humans. What's more No, BIGGER! What's the biggest The sun.
KATHY: No, BIGGER! What's the biggest The sun.
ED: No, BIGGER! What's the biggest The sun.
KATHY: The sun.
ED: ( ecstatic ) Yes! BINGO! Solar energy! Oh that's gonna seem so scientific. ( he resumes TYPING ) This movie's gonna be the ultimate Ed Wood film. No compromises.
KATHY: Oh my God. Look at this!
ED: Those assholes.
KATHY: The poor girl's out of a job.
ED: ( he looks up ) I should give her a call.
ED: I'm really sorry.
VAMPIRA: It's terrible. People won't even return my calls. It's like I don't I know what Anyway, I brought a copy of the script. You would play the "Ghoul's The Ghoul's Wife?! God, I can't believe I'm doing this.
ED: I know what Anyway, I brought a copy of the script. You would play the "Ghoul's The Ghoul's Wife?! God, I can't believe I'm doing this.
VAMPIRA: ( she grimaces ) The Ghoul's Wife?! God, I can't believe I'm doing this.
KATHY: You should feel lucky. Ed's the only guy in town who doesn't pass judgment on people.
ED: ( he laughs ) Hell, if I did, I wouldn't have any
VAMPIRA: Look. would it be possible to make the "Ghoul's Wife" a little less prominent, so people won't really notice me in the movie?
ED: You don't wanna be noticed?
VAMPIRA: Exactly. Hey, how 'bout this what if I don't have any lines? I'll do the part mute! Kathy suddenly sees someone.
KATHY: Look, it's Dr. Tom. Hey, Dr. Tom!
ED: Who's Dr. Tom?
KATHY: My chiropractor!
DR. MASON: Kathy, how are you?! You're looking in alignment today.
KATHY: Actually, my neck's a little funny.
ON ED: Ed stares at the Doctor in astonishment. Ed is riveted.
ED: Wait a second. Don't move!
ED: What's uncanny?
VAMPIRA: What's uncanny?
ED: LOOK AT HIS SKULL!
TOR: He look nutink like Bela!
CONRAD: He's kinds got his ears.
TOR: You're stupid!
KATHY: No, cover up his face.
CRISWELL: Ah! Now I see it.
DR. MASON: ( goofily imitating Bela ) "I want to suck your blood!"
ED: SHHH! We want these Baptists to like
REVEREND LEMON: Brothers and Sisters, we've reached a special part of the service. The baptism of our new members! If the congregation will oblige, we'd like to adjourn and reconvene at Emma DuBois's back yard.
CRISWELL: Why couldn't we do this in the Because "Brother Tor卯 couldn't fit in the sacred tub.
VAMPIRA: Because "Brother Tor卯 couldn't fit in the sacred tub.
REVEREND LEMON: .Do you accept the Lord Jesus Christ as your savior?
ED: I do.
REVEREND LEMON: .Do you reject Satan and all his I do.
BUNNY: ( hiding a smirk ) I do.
REVEREND LEMON: .Do you repent for all your sins?
TOR: I do.
REYNOLDS: Oh my God, I dropped him
CRISWELL: ( mischievous ) I don't think he's coming up!
REVEREND LEMON: Lord no! The man's drowning!
REYNOLDS: ( scared ) What do we do?!
REVEREND LEMON: Help! HELP!!!
REVEREND LEMON: ( near tears ) Dear Jesus, please forgive us!
ON TOR: He suddenly rises, Poseidon-like, from the pool. Tor spits out water, then lets out a hearty BELLY LAVGH.
TOR: Tor make good joke!
VAMPIRA: She nervously walks down a dingy alley. Vampira gets to an unmarked grimy door, gulps, then slowly opens it.
TOR: I am so happy! Finally I am star wit dialogue! I memorized every wordt. Eddie will be so proud!
REYNOLDS: Before we start shooting, Mr. Wood, we have a few questions
REVEREND LEMON: The script refers on numerous occasions to graverobbing. Now we find the concept of digging up consecrated ground highly offensive. It's blasphemy.
ED: ( very annoyed ) What are you talking about?! It's the premise of the movie. It's even the title, for Christ's sake!
REVEREND LEMON: ( shocked ) Mr. Wood!
REYNOLDS: Yes, about that title, it strikes us as very inflammatory. Why don't we change it to "Plan Nine From Outer Space"?
ED: That's ridiculous!
CEMETERY SET: They're filming the COPS arriving at the pitch-black cemetery. There's a prop police car, and an assistant blows fog in.
ED: And, ACTION! "Medicul eksaminer been aroundt yet?"
COP: "Just left. The morgue wagon oughta be along most any time."
TOR: "You get statement frumk vitnesses?"
COP: "Yeah, but they're pretty scared."
TOR: "Findink mess like dis oughta make anyone frightened. Have one of da boyz take dem back to town. You take jarge."
REYNOLDS: What'd you give him all the lines for?? He's unintelligible!
ED: Look, Lugosi is dead and Vampira won't talk. Ihad to give somebody the dialogue.
REVEREND LEMON: That's not an answer.
ED: See, no talking. Isn't he good?
ED: YES, NOW! LURK HIM. AND BE SURE TO KEEP YOUR FACE COVERED!
ED: Isn't it wonderful? Bela lives!
REVEREND LEMON: Doesn't this strike you as a bit No, he would've loved it! Bela's returned from the grave like
ED: No, he would've loved it! Bela's returned from the grave like
CUE VAMPIRA!: Vampira steps out, walking in a trance. Tor is now cornered. He fruitlessly FIRES his gun, but bullets can't stop zombies. Vampira and Dr. Tom kill him. Tor screams.
ED: CUE THE FLYING SAUCER, RAY!
ED: And PERFECT. CUT!
REYNOLDS: ( freaking out ) "Perfect"? Mr. Wood, do you know anything about the art of film I like to think so.
ED: I like to think so.
REYNOLDS: That cardboard headstone tipped over. This graveyard is obviously phony!
ED: People won't notice. Filmmaking isn't about picky details it's about the big picture.
REYNOLDS: Oh, you wanna talk about the "big picture"?! How 'bout that the policemen arrive in the daylight, but now it's suddenly night???
ED: YOU DON'T KNOW ANYTHING! Haven't you ever heard of "suspension of
ED: ( baffled ) Who's he?
REVEREND LEMON: This is our choir director. He's gonna play the young hero.
ED: ( furious ) Are you IN5ANE? I'm the director! I make the casting decisions around I thought this was a group effort.
REVEREND LEMON: I thought this was a group effort.
ED: Ed spastically storms away.
NOOOOO!!!: Ed spastically storms away.
ED: They're driving me crazy! These Baptists are stupid, stupid, STUPID!
ED: Mmm. I need to calm. Take deep Ohh, it's so smooth.
ED: Okay, everyone! Let's set up for Scene 112! Move the crypt stage left and get ready with Tor's make-up
REVEREND LEMON: Mr. Wood? I'm directing.
ED: I'm directing.
REYNOLDS: Not like THAT, you're not!
REVEREND LEMON: Remove that get-up immediately. You shame our Lord.
ED: That's it. I give up!
ED: Take me to the nearest bar.
ED: Imperial whiskey, straight up.
ED: Oh my God. It's Orson Welles.
ED: Oh shit.
ED: Excuse me, Sir.?
ORSON WELLES: ( he casually looks up ) Uh, uh, I'm a young filmmaker, and a really big fan. and I just wanted to meet you.
ED: Uh, uh, I'm a young filmmaker, and a really big fan. and I just wanted to meet you.
ORSON WELLES: ( he extends his hand ) My pleasure. I'm Orson Welles.
ED: Oh. Um, I'm Ed Wood! So, what are you working on now?
ORSON WELLES: Eh, the financing just fell through for the third time on "Don Quixote." So I'm trying to finish a promo for something else. But I can't find the I think I left it in Malta.
ED: I can't believe it. These sound like my problems!
ORSON WELLES: It's the damn money men. You never know who's a windbag, and who's got the goods. And then they all think they're a director.
ED: Ain't that the truth! I've even bad producers recut my movies
ORSON WELLES: Ugh, I hate when that happens.
ED: ( on a roll ) And they always want to cast their buddies it doesn't even matter if they're right for the part!
ORSON WELLES: Tell me about it. I'm supposed to do a thriller at Universal, and they want Charlton Heston to play a
ED: Mr. Welles, is it all worth it?
ORSON WELLES: It is when it works. You know the one film of mine I can stand to watch? "Kane." The studio hated it. but they didn't get to touch a frame. Ed, visions are worth fighting for. Why spend your life making someone else's dreams?
ED: CUT TO:
ED: Mr. Reynolds!
REYNOLDS: We are gonna finish this film the way I want it! Because you can't compromise an artist's vision!
ED: We are gonna finish this film the way I want it! Because you can't compromise an artist's vision!
REVEREND LEMON: ( flustered ) B-but it's our money
ED: And you're gonna make a bundle. This movie's gonna be famous! But only if you SHUT UP, and let me do it my
ED: ALRIGHT! ACTORS IN POSITION! LET'S FINISH THIS PICTURE!!
EDITING ROOM: Ed and his stock footage buddy watch a moviola.
ED: Okay, I want that tank! And I want that bomb!
SOUNDSTAGE: Harry paints Bunny's face GREEN, like a Martian. Ed yells.
ED: NO! The aliens should look like I'm tellin' ya, aliens are always
ED: SCENE IN THE SPACESHIP SET Bunny's make-up is now normal. He wears an alien suit. A HAMMY ALIEN enters and salutes with a bizarre crossing gesture.
BUNNY: "What plan will we follow?"
HAMMY ALIEN: "Plan Nine."
BUNNY: "Plan Nine." "Ah yes. Plan Nine deals with the resurrection of the dead."
ED: Maybe you guys were right. "Plan Nine" is a good title.
COCKPIT SET: Ed stands in front of a masonite board and two chairs. An actor playing the AIRPLANE PILOT walks up.
PILOT: Where's the cockpit set?
ED: You're standing in it. Alright, bring in the shower curtain!
PILOT: "So what if we develop this solarnite bomb? We'd be even a stronger "Stronger? You see! You see!! Your stupid minds! Stupid! STUPID!"
HAMMY ALIEN: "Stronger? You see! You see!! Your stupid minds! Stupid! STUPID!"
PILOT: "That's all I'm taking from you."
CRISWELL: "Perhaps on your way home, someone will pass you in the dark, and you will never know it. For they will be from outer space."
ED: More fog! More fog!! And CUT! PRINT IT! IT'S A WRAP!
ED: I can't get it to go up.
KATHY: Ed, you're gonna miss your own C'mon! Let's just go.
ED: ( he gives up ) C'mon! Let's just go.
CRISWELL: You are about to see en extraordinary motion picture. But before it begins, I think we ought to give a hand to the man without whom we wouldn't be here tonight. Eddie, take a bow!
ED: Thanks a million. I just wanna say. this film is for Bela.
MINUTES LATER: The title "PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE" is projected onto the screen. As random IMAGES from the film play out, we drift over the happy faces of our friends watching. Paul and Conrad stare, enthralled. Tor laughs as he sees himself. Vampira giggles. Bunny nudges her playfully. Criswell mouths his own lines.
ON SCREEN: Bela appears, in his little suit. In the last footage he ever shot, he shuffles around in front of his house, then tenderly smells the flower.
ON ED: He watches, entranced. Then he smiles to himself.
ED: This is the one. I know I'll be remembered for this film.
KATHY: Ed, I'm so happy for you.
ED: Let's get married.
KATHY: ( startled ) But it's pouring. And the car top is stuck!
ED: But it's pouring. And the car top is stuck!
KATHY: But it's pouring. And the car top is stuck!
ED: ( he gives his killer grin ) So? It's only a five-hour drive. And it'll probably clear up, once we hit the desert. Heck, it'll probably clear up once we drive around the corner. I promise.
CRISWELL: My friend, you have just seen the story of Edward D. Wood, Junior. Stranger than fact. and yet every incident based on sworn testimony. A man. A life. Can you prove it didn't happen?
