BLACK: FADE IN: ABSTRACT DREAM CLOSE-UP of a gold framed miniature portrait of JOHN MERRICK'S MOTHER ( tune or melody over her picture, heartbeat ), which DISSOLVES TO CLOSE-UP of real Mother smiling A shadow comes over her face. CLOSE-UP of elephant ears, trunks, faces Dark, heavy feet stomping elephant trumpet, rearing up. Powerful hit and the Mother falls. Darker. Trunk slides over Mother's face and breasts and stomach, leaving a moist trail. MOTHERS POV of elephant's mouth, eyes, skin. Mother's face twists and freezes in a blurred snap roll. BLACK again. Knock, knock sound. Curtain opens to horrified CUT TO BLACK AND SILENCE FADE IN TO steam shooting out of a huge old half-rusted calliope. The music is very loud and raucous. Moving up and back we see the black awning entrance to the freak tent, where FREDERICK TREVES, Resident Surgeon and Lecturer on anatomy at the London Hospital, is standing with his back to us observing the posters of the freaks. Coming along a muddy walkway at the side of the tent is Treves' wife, ANNE, and their two DAUGHTERS. The shrill over- whelming music seems to engulf her. She looks discomfited, vulnerable, and protective of her daughters. The girls, oblivious to any fear, are finishing their chocolate sweets. CLOSE-UP of Treves looking at a poster. He hears:
CIRCUS: FADE IN TO steam shooting out of a huge old half-rusted calliope. The music is very loud and raucous. Moving up and back we see the black awning entrance to the freak tent, where FREDERICK TREVES, Resident Surgeon and Lecturer on anatomy at the London Hospital, is standing with his back to us observing the posters of the freaks. Coming along a muddy walkway at the side of the tent is Treves' wife, ANNE, and their two DAUGHTERS. The shrill over- whelming music seems to engulf her. She looks discomfited, vulnerable, and protective of her daughters. The girls, oblivious to any fear, are finishing their chocolate sweets. CLOSE-UP of Treves looking at a poster. He hears:
#1 DAUGHTER: Treves turns and looks down to a chocolate-covered face. He smiles at the children and Anne. Anne sees the dirty faces and begins cleaning one of them. The other daughter looks into the freak tent.
#2 DAUGHTER: Poppa. may we go in there?
ANNE: Alright. Your turn.
#2 DAUGHTER: Oh,look M-ummy! Elephants!
ANNE: Oh, elephants! We'll go see them.
ANNE: ( to Treves ) You won't be long?
TREVES: I'll join you shortly. A wicked birth.
OLDER MAN: A wicked birth.
BARKER: Ladies and Gentlemen, his lungs are larger than this mammoth blacksmith's bellows. So great is his power of exhalation, rivaling even that of the Great North Wind, that he will now challenge two grown men to attempt to hold the bellows shut as he applies the mighty blast of his herculean breath! Are there any volunteers?
BARKER: Ah! I see two likely lads! Come forward! Come forward! Pit your strength against the Mighty Wind-
BARKER: Gentlemen. Are you ready?
THE LADS: Yes we are. Right. etc.
BARKER: Ladies and Gentlemen!. Let the demonstration begin!!
BARKER: Ladies and Gentlemen!. "THE
BOBBIES: Make way! Make way!
SKELETON MAN: I refuse to believe it! I will not accept it! Those babies are simply too ugly, they cannot be mine!
SKELETON MAN: I don't want them! Get rid of them! I don't want to see them!
FAT LADY: Darling, don't be difficult! Let's take our sweet lovely children on an We'll take these miserable whelps on an outing, alright! We'll take them to the zoo. WHERE THEY WILL STAY! Children save yourselves! Prevail upon your Pappa!
SKELETON MAN: We'll take these miserable whelps on an outing, alright! We'll take them to the zoo. WHERE THEY WILL STAY! Children save yourselves! Prevail upon your Pappa!
FAT LADY: ( pausing at the screams ) Children save yourselves! Prevail upon your Pappa!
DWARVES: Poppa! Poppa! Poppa, please! This is too much! They should not allow it! They should not allow it!
FATHER: ( out loud, to no one in particular ) This is too much! They should not allow it! They should not allow it!
WOMAN: Beast, Beast.
BOBBY: No! That's right out! Drop the
OWNER: You can't do that! I've got my rights!
ALDERMAN: I have the authority to close you down, and I'm doing just that!
ALDERMAN: This exhibit degrades all who see it, as well as the poor creature He's a freak! How else can he live?
OWNER: He's a freak! How else can he live?
ALDERMAN: Freaks are one thing. No one objects to freaks, but this is entirely different. This is monstrous, and ought not to be allowed. These officers will see to it that you are on your way as soon as possible. Good day.
OWNER: ( to himself ) .Movin' again!
OWNER: Have a care, guv'nor.
TREVES: Forgive me.
TREVES: How long has this man been here?
FOX: Three quarters of an hour.
TREVES: Mmmm. Hodges, Pierce come closer. Mr. Hill, take hold of the rope please. It's a machine accident. I expect you'll be seeing a good deal of this.
TREVES: ( off handedly ) Abominable things these machines. One can't reason with them.
FOX: What a mess. What got you into medicine, Hodges?
TREVES: What got you into medicine, Hodges?
HODGES: My father, sir. He's built quite a successful practice. I hope to take it over one day.
TREVES: Is that your case as well, Pierce?
PIERCE: Yes sir. Though of course I do have a great desire to help my fellowman.
TREVES: Of course you do realize that medicine has changed quite a bit since your father's time. In those days we didn't even wash our coats. In fact, the sign of a truly accomplished surgeon was his black operating coat, so stiff with dried blood and pus that it could stand up by itself in the corner. I've still got mine upstairs. You don't mind blood, do Oh no, sir. ( etc. )
TREVES: Good, that's one thing we've always plenty of.
HALLWAY: A hospital MESSENGER BOY, dressed in a blue uniform and a can is making his way down the hall. He stops and looks into an operating room much like the one we have just seen. Inside, the room is empty. The Boy closes the door and continues on to another operating room. The Doctors move with great urgency around the operating table. Blood is draining down into a white porcelain bowl. A Woman can be heard moaning. The Boy looks carefully, but finally closes the door and continues on his way.
BOY: Excuse me, Mr. Treves, sir.
TREVES: I found it.
BOY: I found it.
TREVES: ( studying the Boy carefully ) Did you see it?
TREVES: I'll be with you in a moment .
FOX: ( quietly ) I say Freddie, what are you about?
TREVES: Oh nothing. nothing of any great
TREVES: Do you know where the proprietor is?
A PUB: A noisy pub, long and narrow. Benches run the length of the back wall, with small tables up against them. Men are clustered around the bar, talking in groups. We see the Boy standing at one of the tables talking to the Owner, greedily consuming his lunch as he listens. The Boy gestures outside.
OWNER: He's not a peeler.
BOY: No, I don't think so.
OWNER: No. I don't think so.
TREVES: Are you the proprietor?
OWNER: And who might you be, sir?
TREVES: Just one of the curious. I'd like to see it.
OWNER: I don't think so. No sir, we're
TREVES: I'd pay handsomely for a private showing. Are you the proprietor?
OWNER: Handsomely?. Who sent you?
TREVES: Pardon me?
OWNER: Never mind. I'm the owner.
OWNER: Here we are sir. Life is full of surprises. Ladies and gentlemen, consider the fate of this creature's poor mother. In the fourth month of her maternal condition, she was struck down by a wild elephant Struck down, if you take my meaning, on an uncharted African isle. The result is plain to see ladies and gentlemen. THE TERRIBLE ELEPHANT
MAN!: The rings rattle back, and the curtain is omen. We see a bent figure crouching on a stool, covered by a brown blanket. In front of it on a tripod is a large brick, heated from below by a bunsen burner. From the blanket protrudes a perfectly normal left arm and hand warming itself over the It does not move when the curtain is drawn. Treves steps closer. The Owner, watching his every move, turns-and smiles at him. He bangs his riding crop on the wall and yells to the crouched figure, as if speaking to a The Boy, excited by his own fear, mimics the Owner.
OWNER: Stand up!
BOY: Stand up!
OWNER: Turn around!
BOY: Turn around! Turn around!
TREVES: So you'll bring him to me, tomorrow, 10:00 a.m.? Mr.?
OWNER: Bytes. Mr. Bytes. He'll be there.
TREVES: I'll send a cab. Here is my card.
OWNER: Now we got a deal. We understand each other. guv. We understand each other completely.
OWNER: Don't just stand there. Help him up.
CABMAN: Not at all, sir. My. pleasure.
TREVES: I'll be in my rooms, Mothershead. I'm not to be disturbed.
TREVES: Come with me, please.
MATRON: You heard the doctor. Go on.
TREVES' OFFICE: The door opens and Treves leads the hooded figure to a chair in front of his desk and helps him to sit down, furtively trying to look into the eye-slit of the mask. In the small room the smell of the Elephant Man is overwhelming. Treves goes to the window and opens it. He nervously tries to compose himself, then turns to the hooded figure.
TREVES: My name is Frederick Treves. I am a surgeon here at the London Hospital, and I lecture in anatomy at the Medical College. I would very much like to examine you. Would that be all right?
TREVES: Ah. yes. Um, first I would like to ask you a few questions, would that be all right?
TREVES: Good. Now, let's see. Your Owner. um, the man who. who looks after you tells me that you are English and your name is John Merrick. Is that correct?
TREVES: Do you know where you were born? Where you come from?
TREVES: I tell you what, I'll ask you a question, and you shake your head like this for "no" and nod like this for "yes", alright? Do you understand?
TREVES: Are you in any pain? Um, no. Just nod your head like this for "yes" and shake it like this for "no". Now, are you in any pain?
TREVES: Um, no. Just nod your head like this for "yes" and shake it like this for "no". Now, are you in any pain?
TREVES: Are your parents still alive?
TREVES: Do you understand? Are they dead? Your father. your mother?
FOX: Freddie, what you doing for. I say do open a window in here or.
FOX: Oh, I'm dreadfully sorry, I had no idea that. I say!
FOX: Good Lord, Freddie! What have you got in there?
TREVES: You'll know presently. At the meeting of the society. But until then, I beg of you Fox, keep it to yourself.
FOX: Certainly, if you insist. You must have quite a find there.
TREVES: I don't know what I've got.
FOX: Nothing of any importance, eh?
TREVES: I'll tell you this much, Fox, it's beyond anything you or I have ever dealt with. Keep it to yourself,
TREVES' OFFICE: Treves turns the key in the door. He turns to the chair the figure had been occupying, but he is not there. The figure is hiding in the corner, crouched behind a black frock operating coat, so stiff with dried blood and pus it stands up by itself. Treves looks quickly around the room and finally sees him. He looks at the figure for a moment.
TREVES: Come sit down.
TREVES: Sit. down.
TREVES: I think I'll examine you now. I'll save the questions for later. Will you take off your hat now, please?
TREVES: Don't be frightened, I simply want to look at you. Do you understand?
TREVES: ( more to himself ) That's right, don't be frightened. Don't be frightened.
TREVES: Are you ready?
TREVES: Go ahead.
BRIGHT LIGHT: As we pull back and down in a slow spiral we see the light is coming through high windows. We now see several rows of distinguished doctors talking to each other in anticipation. As we continue to spiral down we see Treves before them at a podium. Behind him are two ASSISTANTS standing beside a curtained stall. Treves raps a pointer stick on the podium to bring the meeting to order. We move behind the stall as the Assistants part the curtains and we see the silhouette of the Elephant Man. The doctors talk among themselves Treves' voice fades as we DISSOLVE TO the Doctors, who at first were rigid and flustered, and now bent forward, concentrating, obviously consumed with interest. Spiraling down again we see Treves finishing his lecture.
TREVES: He is English, he is twenty-one years of age and his name is John Merrick. Gentlemen, in the course of my profession I have come upon lamentable deformities of the face due to injury or disease, as well as mutilations and contortions of the body, depending upon like causes; but, at no time have I met with such a dreaded or perverted version of a human being as this man. I wish to draw your attention to the insidious conditions affecting this patient. Note, if you will, the extreme enlargement of the skull. and upper limb, which is totally useless. The alarming curvature of the spine. Turn him, please. the looseness of the skin, and the varying fibrous tumors that cover 90% of the body.
TREVES: .And there is every indication that these afflictions have been in existence, and have progressed rapidly, since birth. The Patient also suffers from chronic bronchitis. As an interesting side-note, in spite of the afore-mentioned anomalies, the patient's genitals remain entirely intact and unaffected.
TREVES: So then, gentlemen, owing to this series of deformities: The congenital exostoses of the skull; extensive papillomatous growths and large pendulous masses in connection with the skin; the great enlargement of the right upper limb, involving all the bones; the massive distortion of the head and the extensive areas covered by papillomatous growth, the patient has been called, "The Elephant
TREVES OFFICE: The Elephant Man ( hereafter the E.M. ) wearing his cloak, is seated by the desk. Treves stands behind him, measuring his head with calipers. He removes the calipers and notes the span, then sets them on the desk. He places the hood over the E.M.'s head. Treves sits at his desk and makes some final notes. He becomes more absorbed in his notes than in the E.M. The E.M. makes an unintelligible sound.
TREVES: The E.M. is silent. Treves, only now realizing that the E.M. has said something, looks up at him.
TREVES: The E.M. is silent. Treves passes it off as a sigh and turns back to his work.
TREVES: It's been a long day for everyone.
TREVES: Oh, yes, you'll need a cab.
TREVES: Come with me.
FOX: You never mentioned his mental state.
TREVES: He's imbecile, no doubt from birth. He speaks, but. it's all gibberish. No, the man's a homeless idiot. I pray God he's an idiot.
THE FIRST: Quite a coup, Freddie. You'll look splendid in the journal.
THE SECOND: Where ever did you find that creature?
ANNE: Did it go well, darling?
TREVES: Yes, very well, I think. Are the girls in bed?
ANNE: Yes, and they send their kisses. Would you like your sherry now?
TREVES: No, I think a whiskey.
BYTES: Belt up, you misbegotten garbage. How can I eat with that?
BYTES: ( yelling ) How can I eat with THAT?
BYTES: Out of my sight!
BYTES: ( not satisfied with his speed )
NOW!: He jabs the E.M. again, spilling his potatoes and water onto the floor.
BYTES: You clumsy sod!
BYTES: The Boy wakes up in fear. Bytes moves quickly toward the E.M. raising his crop. The E.M. stumbles and falls backward onto the floor. His head goes back and he begins gasping for air. Bytes yanks him up and hits him in the face with his riding crop. The force of the blow knocks a glob of spit into the air from the E.M.'s mouth. The E.M. gasps and wheezes horribly as Bytes hits him again and again. From across the room.
YOU!: The Boy wakes up in fear. Bytes moves quickly toward the E.M. raising his crop. The E.M. stumbles and falls backward onto the floor. His head goes back and he begins gasping for air. Bytes yanks him up and hits him in the face with his riding crop. The force of the blow knocks a glob of spit into the air from the E.M.'s mouth. The E.M. gasps and wheezes horribly as Bytes hits him again and again. From across the room.
BOY: Bytes! DON'T.
BYTES: This won't do, my lad. This just won't do!
BOY: Our man is sick. Come right away.
TREVES: What is it?
BOY: Like this.
TREVES: I'll get my bag.
BYTES: What did you do to him? He's been like this all night!
TREVES: What do you mean?
BYTES: He was fine when he left here, and now look at him.
TREVES: I intend to.
TREVES: What happened?
BYTES: He fell. He falls.
TREVES: He must have taken quite a fall.
BYTES: He's a clumsy git. Never watches where he is going.
TREVES: Why is he sitting up like this? He needs rest.
BYTES: That's the way he sleeps. If he lays down, he'll die. Head's too heavy.
TREVES: This man belongs in hospital.
BYTES: ( apprehensively ) Can't you fix him up here? .He's my livelihood. Listen.
TREVES: You listen, you're not going to have much of a livelihood if this man dies. He's got the rale, he's very weak, and I don't know how much damage has been done by his "fall". Now stop wasting time and fetch a cab.
BYTES: I really appreciate this, guv. You know, there's lot of things that I can do for you. I move in the proper circles, for this type of thing.
E.M. ): In fact, anything at all, if you take my meaning.
BYTES: I like doing business with you. You and I understand each other, completely. I know I can trust you. Can't I?
TREVES: ( gazing at him levelly ) Everything will be seen to.
HALLWAY: NURSE NORA IRELAND is pushing a cart filled of empty breakfast trays down the hall. She glances into the stairwell and sees Treves and the E.M. coming through the door. She continues on, startled by the sight of the mysterious hooded figure. At the end of the hall, she goes into the kitchen.
STAIRWAY: Treves and the E.M. are laboriously climbing a flight of stairs. The E.M. is puffing and wheezing with the effort. Treves supports him under his right arm.
KITCHEN: Nora enters with the cart and waits for it to be restocked. She leans out the door for another look, but the hall is empty. A Nurse ladles mush into bowls. There is a lot of activity in the kitchen. Nora takes the cart stacked with full trays and pushes it out the door and down the hallway.
HALLWAY: Treves and the E.M. cross the hallway and head up a narrow stairway towards the attic. There is a sign reading Carr Gomm is leaning out the door to his office, unseen by Treves. He closes the door.
MOTHERSHEAD: ( startling Nora ) Nora! Mind your duties. if you don't concentrate dear, you'll only make more work for the rest of us. Now, get about your business. ( pauses, seeing Nora's collar ) .and do get your collar straight, ( fumbling with her collar ) I'm so sorry, Mrs. Mothershead.
NORA: ( fumbling with her collar ) I'm so sorry, Mrs. Mothershead.
MOTHERSHEAD: Do get on with it, Nora.
ISOLATION WARD: CU of a bottle of dark fluid and a bottle of light fluid. Treves mixes the two in a glass. We are in a small oddly shaped room off the attic ward. There is one tiny barred window located high up on the far wall. There is also a bed, two hard chairs and a table. The E.M. is sitting on the bed in shadow and his disguise is now hanging from a peg on the wall beside him. He is still wheezing and appears to be very weak. Treves serves the mixture to the E.M., who sputters and gags on it, but manages to get it down. Treves goes to the table and puts the two bottles in his bag. He goes to the door and turns to the
TREVES: I don't know if you will understand this, but you will never go back to that man again. You're safe now. No one will ever harm you. Do you
NURSE: Breakfasting with the patients this morning, Mr. Treves?
TREVES: It's for a patient.
CARR: Mr. Treves, come over here a moment, won't you?
CARR: Good morning, Treves.
TREVES: Good morning, sir.
CARR: ( seeing the bowl ) You've acquired a taste for this?
TREVES: It's quite nutritious, sir.
CARR: Don't be mad. This muck can kill
CARR: Take this up, to to the man in the isolation ward when you have a moment, won't you?
NORA: ( apprehensively ) Yes, sir.
TREVES: Don't be frightened. He won't hurt
CARR: He gestures toward his office door. As he and Treves enter the office, Nora looks apprehensively up the isolation ward MR. CARR GOMM'S OFFICE It is a small, elegantly furnished room with a large window. The two men sit, Carr Gomm behind his desk and Treves in a leather chair.
CARR: A hospital is no place for secrecy, Mr. Treves. Doctors spiriting hooded figures about are liable to cause comment. Why wasn't this patient properly admitted, and why is he in isolation? Is he contagious?
TREVES: No sir, he's got bronchitis and he's been badly beaten.
CARR: Why isn't he in the General Ward, Well sir, he's quite seriously deformed, and I fear the other patients would find him. rather Deformed? Is that it. Then am I to assume that he is ultimately Yes sir.
TREVES: Well sir, he's quite seriously deformed, and I fear the other patients would find him. rather Deformed? Is that it. Then am I to assume that he is ultimately Yes sir.
CARR: Deformed? Is that it. Then am I to assume that he is ultimately Yes sir.
TREVES: Yes sir.
CARR: What are your plans then, Treves. You are aware that the London does not accept incurables. The rules are quite clear on that point.
TREVES: Yes, I'm well aware of that. But this case is quite exceptional.
CARR: Oh, is he a friend of yours?
TREVES: No, more of an acquaintance.
CARR: I certainly sympathize with your problem, Treves. Why don't you try the British Home, or the Royal Hospital for perhaps they would have a place for him.
TREVES: Yes sir, I'll look into that. Would you like to meet him sir?
TREVES: Excuse me, sir.
CARR: The Elephant Man?
TREVES: I'm sorry, my dear, I should have warned you. I'm so terribly sorry, please forgive me. There, you're alright now. Go downstairs and please ask Mrs. Mothershead to come up. Tell her to knock on the door and wait for me. Alright?
NORA: Yes Sir. I'm sorry, Sir.
ISOLATION WARD: Closing the door, Treves steps over the spilt breakfast and goes to the E.M.
TREVES: I'm very sorry about that. Are you resting well? Ah good. Well then. oh yes, we'll have to get you some more food. I'm sure you must be simply famished.
TREVES: Ah good. Well then. oh yes, we'll have to get you some more food. I'm sure you must be simply famished.
TREVES: Of course you are. Now then, I think you'll be quite comfortable up here for awhile. I'll see to it you have everything you need, and, uh. yes.
GENERAL WARD: Several Nurses are taking bath things off a cart. At the other end of the room, Mothershead is talking to a patient. Nora enters and walks over to Mothershead. They talk, and Mothershead exits. Nora joins the other nurses.
OTHER NURSES: Did you see him?
NORA: OTHER NURSES
OTHER NURSES: What's wrong with him?
TREVES: Ah, Mothershead. How are you feeling Good. Excellent. Now then, Mrs. Mothershead, I want you to come into this room with me. Inside there is a man with a rather. unfortunate I've heard.
MOTHERSHEAD: ( suspiciously ) Good. Excellent. Now then, Mrs. Mothershead, I want you to come into this room with me. Inside there is a man with a rather. unfortunate I've heard.
TREVES: Good. Excellent. Now then, Mrs. Mothershead, I want you to come into this room with me. Inside there is a man with a rather. unfortunate I've heard.
MOTHERSHEAD: I've heard.
TREVES: Yes. Well, I want you to clear up a little mess, a breakfast tray was spilt. And bring up another breakfast. When you've done that, you and I shall give the man a bath. But, Mothershead, I'm counting on your many years of experience to get you through this, Above all, do not scream, do not cry out, or in any way show this man that you are frightened of him.
MOTHERSHEAD: Sir, you don't have to worry about me. I'm not the sort to cry out. Shall we go in?
TREVES: Yes. Yes, let's go in.
ISOLATION WARD: Mothershead goes right to the mess.
TREVES: ( to the E.M., hereafter Merrick ) I would like you to meet Mrs. Mothershead - Mrs. Mothershead, Mr. John Merrick.
MOTHERSHEAD: How do you do?
ISOLATION WARD: Merrick's seated in a tin bathtub trying to hide his nakedness. Mrs. Mothershead pours the water in. She scrubs his back with obvious distaste, but does her job. Months of filth and accumulated excrescence are turning the bath water a murky black. As Mothershead scrubs, Merrick slowly leans forward in the bath, closing his eyes, apparently oblivious to his surroundings. Treves sits beside him.
TREVES: The disease is shocking.
TREVES: I wonder how far it can go before
MOTHERSHEAD: Sit still. Don't wiggle about like a pup. I won't stand for any
MOTHERSHEAD: The workhouse.
TREVES: Yes! The workhouse! The workhouse.
TREVES: ( softly ) The workhouse.
ALLEY: The young PORTER is exiting with great difficulty through a large iron door carrying the two buckets. He sets one of the buckets down, takes the other and splashes it out into the alley. Some thick sludge dribbles from the empty bucket. Unseen by him, the NIGHT PORTER is standing just to the side and he now comes forward. The young Porter seems nervous in his presence. The Night Porter looks at his spattered shoes, then up to the Young Porter.
NIGHT PORTER: What's all this, then?
YOUNG PORTER: Mr. Treves is scrubbing his Elephant Elephant Man?
NIGHT PORTER: Elephant Man?
YOUNG PORTER: Yeah. I hear it's a real horror. Even made Mothershead scream.
NIGHT PORTER: Friend of the night, eh? The Elephant Man. I think I'll have me a look at Now, you need the scrubbing, ducks!
NIGHT PORTER: Now, you need the scrubbing, ducks!
ATTIC WARD: Through the high barred window, we see the dark sky. The E.M. is on his bed in his sleeping posture. A dim gaslight burns in the room. CLOSE-UP of his head on the points of his knees. His breathing is more regular now.
ANOTHER WARD: Lights go off.
BACK ENTRANCE: Large iron door is closed.
HALLWAY: Half the lights go off.
HALLWAY: Nurses leave for their quarters - half the lights go off.
NIGHT PORTER: Hush, love, I told you before one word from me, they'll toss you back on the street, and then those pretty little arms of yours will never grow straight. Now close your eyes.
ATTIC WARD: Merrick as before the light is very dim. We hear the echoing footfalls of the Night Porter coming up the stairs. Merrick's head immediately comes up from his knees. As it does, a small object falls from where his head rested. He picks it up and puts it in a pocket of his cloak. it is the portrait of the beautiful woman, which he saw in his Suddenly the door swings open and the Night Porter, bottle in hand, is standing there. He walks into the room and sees Merrick's shape on the bed.
NIGHT PORTER: Here he is, the old fiend of the night, the terror of the London. Let's have a look at you. Let's see what makes 'em scream.
NIGHT PORTER: Cor Blimey!
NIGHT PORTER: So this is the Elephant Man. I ain't never seen nothing like you before. What the bleedin' hell happened to
NIGHT PORTER: Oh. dumb, eh?
NIGHT PORTER: Good. I likes people what can keep
NIGHT PORTER: Like a drink? Go on. Go on have some. No? You should try being more sociable, mate.
NIGHT PORTER: ( grinning ) You and I are going to be good friends, we are. And, I've got lots of friends who I know would like to meet you. And they will, mate. they will.
NIGHT PORTER: Welcome to the London.
WHITECHAPEL ROAD: We see a horse's head in CU, snorting steam into the chill morning air. The horse is harnessed to a milk wagon parked in front of the London. Through the open back of the wagon we see the MILKMAN, and past him Treves, walking towards us.
MILKMAN: Here early again, eh Mr. Treves? If you don't mind my saying so, sir, with your early habits, you'd 'a made a fine milkman.
TREVES: Good morning, Charley. I'll keep that in mind!
TREVES: Mr. Merrick?
TREVES: ..Good morning. John. I've brought your breakfast.
TREVES: What are you doing down there? Come up John, come up on the bed. The cold floor is bad for you. I won't hurt you, come on now.
TREVES: You must eat. We must keep your
TREVES: .What on earth is the matter with
TREVES: Now please, John, you must do as I say. Come up from there.
MOTHERSHEAD: Good morning, Mr. Treves. It'll be his bath-time soon. Has he eaten?
TREVES: Not quite yet, Mrs. Mothershead. There seems to be some difficulty this morning.
MOTHERSHEAD: Won't come out, eh?
TREVES: No, he's very upset about something.
MOTHERSHEAD: Just being obstinate, sir. I'll handle
MOTHERSHEAD: Alright, my son, none of this fuss. Come up from there, this instant.
TREVES: No! Don't pull at him like that. We don't want to frighten him more than he already is.
MOTHERSHEAD: Honestly, sir, you must be very firm with this sort. Otherwise they'd lay about on the floor gibbering all day long. All he understands is a good
TREVES: He's had his share of "smacks", Mothershead. I expect that's what drives him under the bed. We must use patience and understanding with this man.
MOTHERSHEAD: Perhaps you've got the time for that, Mr. Treves, I certainly don't. I've got an entire hospital to look after, and you have your real patients. Don't waste your time with him sir, it's like talking to a wall. I don't mean to be harsh, but truthfully what can you do for him? I'll be back later for his bath. And Mr. Carr Gomm would like to see you when you have a moment. Good day sir.
TREVES: ( to himself ) What good am I to you.?
TREVES: .What is my purpose? .It's so important that I understand you. I want to help you, I want to be your but I can't help you unless you help me, unless I know what you are feeling. I believe there's something back there, there's something you want to say, but I've got to understand you. Do you understand
TREVES: No! You are going to talk to me! We are going to show them! We're going to show them that you're not a wall. We are going to talk! Do you understand? Nod your head if you understand me!
TREVES: You do understand me! You understand. Now you're going to say it. I've got to hear how you say things. Now, very slowly, say "yes."
TREVES: Merrick is still hesitant, from years of fear, but his eyes betray a growing excitement. Slowly, he tries to talk, his voice a tremulous whisper.
MERRICK: Yyyy. Yyye. yyyess.
TREVES: ( grabbing Merrick's arm ) Yes John! That's much better. I could understand that "yes".
MERRICK: That's much better. I could understand that "yes".
TREVES: That's much better. I could understand that "yes".
MERRICK: That's much better. I could understand that "yes".
TREVES: That's much better. I could understand that "yes".
MERRICK: ( pleased ) Very good! Oh yes! Now listen. I'm going to say some things to you and I want you to repeat them. um. I want you to say them back to me. Do you understand? I'm going to say some things to you and I want you to say them back to me. Do you Excellent! Now, say. "Hello"
TREVES: Very good! Oh yes! Now listen. I'm going to say some things to you and I want you to repeat them. um. I want you to say them back to me. Do you understand? I'm going to say some things to you and I want you to say them back to me. Do you Excellent! Now, say. "Hello"
MERRICK: Excellent! Now, say. "Hello"
TREVES: Excellent! Now, say. "Hello"
MERRICK: My name is.
TREVES: My name is.
MERRICK: My. name is.
TREVES: John Merrick.
MERRICK: John. Merrick
TREVES: Say "Merrick".
MERRICK: Say "Mmmerrick."
TREVES: Say "Mmmerrick."
MERRICK: Say "Mmmerrick."
TREVES: Say "Mmmerrick."
MERRICK: Well, that's alright. I understand you. Now, say the whole thing again, Hello .
TREVES: Well, that's alright. I understand you. Now, say the whole thing again, Hello .
MERRICK: ( haltingly ) Hello. my name is. John Merrick.
NORA: Oh, Mrs. Mothershead, please forgive my behavior yesterday. I'm sorry if you're having to do extra work on my account. It was just seeing it.
MOTHERSHEAD: Patients here are not "its". They are either "he's" or "she's", but that's alright, Ireland. This one's going to be more work for all of us. Good God girl! Mind your broth.
ISOLATION WARD: Treves and Merrick are absorbed in their work. A knock comes at the door.
TREVES: Come in.
TREVES: Why, my dear Mrs. Mothershead, how good of you to join us. Mr. Merrick, will you please introduce yourself?
MERRICK: ( hesitantly ) Hello, my name is John Merrick.
MOTHERSHEAD: Good Lord, Mr. Treves!
TREVES: ( exuberantly ) We've made tremendous strides today, Mothershead. He listens and repeats with great attention, and this certainly isn't easy for him.
MOTHERSHEAD: Parrots can do as much, Mr. Treves. It's all very nice, but I don't see the point. You know they won't let him stay here.
TREVES: ( lowering his voice ) I'm sure that if Mr. Merrick made a good impression on the hospital committee they'd see that he's the exception to their rule. Now I'm not expecting miracles. I'm not saying he'll be able to read or write, but I do think that I can get him to speak for himself. I'm going to arrange things with Carr Gomm right ( to Merrick ) That was very good, John, very good. That's all for today. We shall do some more tomorrow. Mothershead?
TREVES: I'll see you soon.
CARR: Have you contacted the British Home and the Royal Hospital?
TREVES: Ah, no sir. I had planned to see them in the morning.
CARR: Good! How is the patient?
TREVES: He's doing very well. In fact that's why I came to see you. I think that if I were to present Mr. Merrick to the hospital committee, then they would have a chance to see for themselves not only the extraordinary nature of the disease, but of the man as well. If the committee had a chance to speak with him, hear him say a few words for himself, I'm sure they would see him as a patient, rather than as a violation of the A few words? I thought he was Well sir, perhaps I should explain.
CARR: A few words? I thought he was Well sir, perhaps I should explain.
TREVES: Well sir, perhaps I should explain.
CARR: I really don't think that's necessary Treves. I'm quite sure the committee will be able to make an equitable decision on the merits of the case, such as they are.
TREVES: I don't agree. No one can make a reasonable decision about this man's future without at least meeting him. No doctor would presume to diagnose a patient he had never met.
CARR: No, Treves, it's out of the question. Now if it was up to me, I'd say "Certainly, let's meet the fellow, by all means," I'm sorry, I simply can't speak for the other members of the committee.
TREVES: Then will you meet him, as a representative of the committee.
CARR: Mr. Treves, it's out of the question. I want to hear as soon as possible what the other hospitals can do. I'm
BYTES: I want my man back.
TREVES: Just a moment, how did you get in Never mind that, I want my man!
BYTES: Never mind that, I want my man!
TREVES: He's still very sick. Please come downstairs with me. I'll explain the DON'T. Don't muck me about. You've had plenty of time to fix him up, and he's leaving with me, NOW. Do you understand me? Now, Mr. Treves. We had a bargain!
BYTES: ( shouting ) DON'T. Don't muck me about. You've had plenty of time to fix him up, and he's leaving with me, NOW. Do you understand me? Now, Mr. Treves. We had a bargain!
TREVES: You misunderstood. This man suffered a severe fall, if you take my meaning. He's my patient now and I must do Pull the other one, why don't you! We made a deal!
BYTES: Pull the other one, why don't you! We made a deal!
TREVES: I know what you've done to him and he's never going back to that.
BYTES: He's a freak! That's how they live. We're partners, him and I, business partners. You're willfully deprivin' me of my livlihood!
TREVES: All you do is profit from another man's misery!
BYTES: You think you're better 'n me? YOU wanted the freak to show all your doctor chums and make a name for yourself, you guv. So I gave him to you. On trust, in the name of science! And now I want him back.
TREVES: You don't own this man!
BYTES: I want him back!
TREVES: So you can beat him? So you can starve him? A dog in the street would fare better with you!
BYTES: I've got my rights, damn you, and I'm going to the authorities!
CARR: By all means do so. In fact, I'll fetch them myself. I'm quite sure they'd be very interested in your story, as well as ours. Now I think we really do understand one another.
TREVES: Now I think we really do understand one another.
BYTES: ( venomously ) Right. Right.
CARR: Singularly unpleasant chap. uh. I don't suppose there would be any harm in my meeting your. patient, Mr. Treves.
TREVES: ( gratefully ) Thank you very much Sir. Shall we say in a few days then?
CARR: Shall we say two o'clock tomorrow Wh. whatever is most convenient for you, sir.
TREVES: ( slightly taken aback ) Wh. whatever is most convenient for you, sir.
CARR: Two o'clock then. you know Treves. It seems this acquaintance of yours has become rather more than just an .Yes, Sir.
TREVES: .Yes, Sir.
TREVES: ( muttering ) Two o'clock?
CARR: ( mumbling out loud ) Elephant Man? I don't want to meet an Elephant Man.
ANNE: ( coyly )
ANNE: Freddie?. Freddie, don't look so I shouldn't be. We made great progress today. I taught him to repeat a few basic phrases. He did rather well, too, but I had to lead him every step of the way. Though frankly, at times I was unsure of who was leading What do you mean?
TREVES: I shouldn't be. We made great progress today. I taught him to repeat a few basic phrases. He did rather well, too, but I had to lead him every step of the way. Though frankly, at times I was unsure of who was leading What do you mean?
ANNE: What do you mean?
TREVES: Well, I wasn't sure whether he was parroting me because that's all he was capable of, or whether he sensed that that's all I wanted to hear, and he was trying to please me.
ANNE: But I thought you said that he was rather. simple?
TREVES: He is. I mean, I've always thought he was. I think he must be. Is he simple? Or is that just something I've wished upon him to make things simpler for myself?
ANNE: Frederick, why are you so interested in this particular case?
TREVES: I don't know. I can't explain it. If this is an intelligent man, trapped in the body of a monster, then I'm under a moral obligation to help free that mind, free that spirit as best I can, to help him live as full and content a life as possible. But! If he's an imbecile, who's body I can't treat and who's mind I can't touch, well, then my obligation is discharged. They can put him where they will; he won't be bothered, I won't be bothered, and everyone's conscience can remain free and untroubled. And that is my dilemma. what is in his mind?
ANNE: Perhaps you're just polishing a stone, endowing this Elephant Man with qualities he doesn't possess?
TREVES: ( impatiently ) And what qualities are those? Intelligence or stupidity?
ANNE: ( slightly hurt ) I'm sure I don't know, Freddie.
TREVES: I'm sorry. I don't know either. I just don't know.
ANNE: Well, these things take time.
TREVES: I've only got until two o'clock tomorrow afternoon, when Carr Gomm meets him. Somehow, between now and then I've got to make John Merrick at least seem like an intelligent man. Why am I fooling myself? Nothing short of John delivering the Sermon on the Mount is going to sway Carr Gomm.
ISOLATION WARD: Merrick is propped up in bed. Suddenly the door bursts open. The Night Porter, an arm around a drunken giggling tart, stands in the doorway. As soon as the Charwoman sees Merrick, she screams as does Merrick, and she wriggles free, making for the stairs. The Night Porter watches her go and then turns to Merrick laughing noisily. He then pulls the door shut with a bang. Merrick, very frightened, crawls down into his hiding place.
ISOLATION WARD: Merrick's disguise hangs on the wall.
TREVES: MERRICK ( V.O. )
TREVES: Very good, very good. Now, when your visitor comes today I want you to say it exactly the way you said it just now. I will introduce him to you and you will say the words you've learned. If you have any trouble with any of the words, I'll help you. I'm sure you'll be just fine. If you do as well for him as you've done for me these last two days, then I'm sure our visitor will be very pleased. Now, let's go through the whole thing again, shall we? I will say "May I introduce you to Mr. Carr Gomm." And you will say.
MERRICK: Hello, my name is John Merrick. I am very pleased to meet you!
HALLWAY: Treves and Carr Gomm are speaking together as they walk along.
TREVES: It's only a physical problem. He has trouble with certain sounds because of the constrictive deformity of the mouth. But he can talk, and has a great eagerness to make contact with people who will let him. So if you have any difficulty understanding what he is saying, just tell me and I'll make it clear.
CARR: Speaking is one thing, Treves, but can the man comprehend?
TREVES: .As I said, it's only a physical problem. but I do feel that Mr. Merrick is very flattered that you're taking the time and trouble to meet him, and he's most anxious to make a good impression, so he might seem rather nervous.
CARR: He needn't. I have no desire to cause him any discomfort. Did you make those inquiries we spoke about?
TREVES: Yes, I spoke to both the British Home and Royal Hospital for Incurables. I'm afraid that they weren't very encouraging, but they said they'd bring it up at their next committee meeting, so we should have their answers shortly.
CARR: Fine, fine. You know, your dedication to this patient is an inspiring thing, Treves. But you must remember that this is a hospital, and there are many patients here. Patients who can be made well, and you owe them your first consideration. Just don't become so obsessed, old man, that you begin to neglect them.
ISOLATION WARD: Merrick is standing beside his disguise on its hook. He nervously smooths the cloak down, repositions the Bible on the bedside table and smooths the cloak again. He looks at the door, expecting it to open. It doesn't. His hands smooths the cloak over and over again. Voices can be heard outside the door. Merrick freezes. There are two raps at the door. Merrick flinches, clutching the cloak. The raps are repeated. He pulls himself together and walks to the middle of the room. He takes a deep breath and closes his eyes.
MERRICK: Come in.
TREVES: John, may I introduce you to Sir Carr Gomm.
MERRICK: Hello. my name is John Merrick. I am very pleased to meet you.
CARR: I'm very. pleased to meet you.
CARR: How are you feeling today?
MERRICK: I feel much better. Thank you for asking. And you?
CARR: I'm feeling very fit, thank you. How is your bronchitis?
MERRICK: I feel much better. Thank you.
CARR: Are you comfortable here?
MERRICK: Everyone has been very kind. I am extremely grateful.
TREVES: Mr. Merrick likes the food here. Don't you John?
MERRICK: Oh yes! It is much better than what I am used to.
CARR: Oh yes?
TREVES: ( after a pause ) And what was that, John?
MERRICK: There is another agonizing silence.
TREVES: ( to Carr Gomm ) .Yes potatoes. but.
MERRICK: But the variety of food here is very pleasing. I commend you.
CARR: ( after a pause ) I understand that you were beaten? Oh no, everyone has been very kind.
DIERRICK: Oh no, everyone has been very kind.
CARR: No, I meant in your former situation.
MERRICK: I'm feeling much better now. Tell me, how do you like Mr. Treves? As a teacher?
CARR: Tell me, how do you like Mr. Treves? As a teacher?
MERRICK: .I. everyone has been very kind to me.
CARR: Of course. How long did you and Mr. Treves prepare for this interview?
MERRICK: .everyone has been very kind.
CARR: Yes, of course. Well, it's been a pleasure meeting you, Mr. Merrick. Good day.
TREVES: ( to John ) Thank you, John. You did very well. ( his voice is gaining strength ) The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures. ( he continues through the following dialogue ) It was a nice try, Treves, but the man is so obviously mouthing your Yes, I'm very sorry to have wasted your time, sir. I just felt that I had to do anything I could to protect I'm sorry too. He simply doesn't belong here. He's be much happier somewhere else, where he could be constantly looked after. Believe me, Frederick, it's better that it worked out this way. Good day.
MERRICK: ( his voice is gaining strength ) The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures. ( he continues through the following dialogue ) It was a nice try, Treves, but the man is so obviously mouthing your Yes, I'm very sorry to have wasted your time, sir. I just felt that I had to do anything I could to protect I'm sorry too. He simply doesn't belong here. He's be much happier somewhere else, where he could be constantly looked after. Believe me, Frederick, it's better that it worked out this way. Good day.
CARR: It was a nice try, Treves, but the man is so obviously mouthing your Yes, I'm very sorry to have wasted your time, sir. I just felt that I had to do anything I could to protect I'm sorry too. He simply doesn't belong here. He's be much happier somewhere else, where he could be constantly looked after. Believe me, Frederick, it's better that it worked out this way. Good day.
TREVES: Yes, I'm very sorry to have wasted your time, sir. I just felt that I had to do anything I could to protect I'm sorry too. He simply doesn't belong here. He's be much happier somewhere else, where he could be constantly looked after. Believe me, Frederick, it's better that it worked out this way. Good day.
CARR: I'm sorry too. He simply doesn't belong here. He's be much happier somewhere else, where he could be constantly looked after. Believe me, Frederick, it's better that it worked out this way. Good day.
CARR: What is it, Treves?
TREVES: I didn't teach him that part!
MERRICK: My cup runneth over. Surely goodness and loving kindness shall follow me all the days of my life, and I shall dwell in the house of the Lord
TREVES: How did you, know the rest? I never taught you the rest of it.
CARR: I don't understand.
TREVES: Tell me, John, how did you know the rest of the 23rd Psalm?
MERRICK: ( hesitantly ) I. I used to read the Bible every day. I know it very well. The Bible, and the Book of Common Prayer. The 23rd Psalm is very beautiful.
ISOLATION WARD: A few minutes later. We hear voices inside the room.
MERRICK: I am very pleased to meet you.
CARR: I hope we can talk together again sometime. Good day.
TREVES: ( to Merrick ) I'll be right back.
CARR: I want to see you in my office as soon as you're through up here. We've a good deal to discuss.
TREVES: Of course, sir. Thank you, thank you very much.
CARR: Treves. Well done.
TREVES: Not me, sir. Mr. Merrick. He succeeded in spite of my shortsightedness.
ISOLATION WARD: Merrick is on the bed, propped up by pillows. The door opens. Treves comes in, shuts the door and leans against it. They look at each other for a moment.
TREVES: Why did you let me go on like that, teaching you what you already knew? Why didn't you tell me you could You did not ask me.
MERRICK: You did not ask me.
TREVES: I never thought to ask. How can you ever forgive me?
MERRICK: Oh, no do not say that. You have been so kind to me. I was afraid to say too much. People always want me to be quiet. You wanted me to speak, but I was afraid. Forgive me.
TREVES: We do have a lot to talk about, don't Can you imagine what his life has been like?
CARR: Can you imagine what his life has been like?
TREVES: Yes, I think I can.
CARR: No you can't. You can't begin to know, no one can.
CARR: You are quite right, Treves, this is an exceptional case. And I quite agree that the committee should see Mr. Merrick.
TREVES: I could easily arrange.
CARR: No, not that way. Broadneck and the others don't like to deal with patients directly. It makes them queasy. Do you have any photographs of Mr. Merrick?
TREVES: Well, yes.
CARR: Excellent. We shall present them, along with the other particulars of the case to the committee. I want them to see, exactly, how horribly his body has been affected. You and I shall vouch for his inner qualities.
TREVES: Do you think they'll go along with Of course they will. They're reasonable men.
CARR: Of course they will. They're reasonable men.
ISOLATION WARD: Merrick is in bed, very tired. It's been an exhausting day. Suddenly the door opens and Mothershead comes into the room. Merrick looks up at her very apprehensively. She walks over to the bed, picks up the Bible from the table, opens it and hands it to Merrick.
MOTHERSHEAD: Read it.
MERRICK: Thou heardest my voice; hide not thine ear at my breathing, At my
MOTHERSHEAD: Credit where credit is due. You'll have the paper every morning at
NIGHT PORTER: I hear you have some trouble
NIGHT PORTER: Head's too heavy, eh?
NIGHT PORTER: And I heard a nasty rumor about you; I heard you can talk but you can't, can you. can you. can you?.
MERRICK: ( struggling )
NIGHT PORTER: No. No you can't! One word about me out of that stinking cakehole. Just ONE word, and you'll have no trouble at sleepin'. no trouble at all. You understand me? Do you!!
MERRICK: ( croaking )
NIGHT PORTER: There now, that's better, i'n' it?
HALLWAY: Treves and Carr Gomm are on their way to the committee meeting, confident of their position. Treves is holding a folder, and Carr Gomm is looking at the photographs of Treves is silent. They stop.
CARR: As far as I can see, the only obstacle might be Broadneck. He has enormous influence over the others, very old school, not an easy man to impress. In any case, if worse does come to worse, we still have the British and Royal Homes to fall back on, don't
CARR: Don't we?
TREVES: No, we don't. Their committees have informed me that they're unwilling to take Mr. Merrick, even if they were supplied with funds. They don't want him.
CARR: Well, it's up to us then, isn't it?
CARR: Don't worry Treves, we'll make them see it our way.
CARR: They've eyes, haven't they?
TREVES: Forgive the redundancy, gentlemen, but there is no other place for him. Both the Royal Hospital and the British Home have turned him down even if sufficient funds for his care were provided. The workhouse is certainly out of the question. The patient has an overwhelming fear of returning to the horrors of his past. His appearance is so disturbing that all shrink from him. He cannot, in justice to others, be put in the general ward of the workhouse. The police rightly prevent his being exhibited, and he is mobbed in the streets wherever he goes. What is to be done with him?
BROADNECK: I, for one, am sick and tired of this competitive freak-hunting by these overly ambitious young doctors, trying to make names for themselves. To parade then about in front of the pathological society is one thing, but to waste this committee's valuable time with requests for shelter for these abominations of nature is quite Gentlemen, John Merrick is not an animal, he is a man, fully aware of his condition. An intelligent, sensitive, literate man, with an intimate knowledge of the Bible. His horrible infirmities do not reduce him to anything less than what he is, a man; and it would be criminal if we of the London Hospital, his final refuge, the last place on earth where this man can find peace, were to cast him out.
TREVES: Gentlemen, John Merrick is not an animal, he is a man, fully aware of his condition. An intelligent, sensitive, literate man, with an intimate knowledge of the Bible. His horrible infirmities do not reduce him to anything less than what he is, a man; and it would be criminal if we of the London Hospital, his final refuge, the last place on earth where this man can find peace, were to cast him out.
CARR: Gentlemen, may I make a suggestion. There are two small rooms off Bedstead Square that are no longer in use and would be admirably suited to Mr. Merrick's needs. I also propose to write a letter to The Times, appealing to their readers for assistance. Knowing the generosity of the British public, I feel we would have little trouble in raising the funds for his maintenance. Indeed, this hospital's rules do preclude the admission of incurables, but if ever there was an exception to the rule, it is this patient. So therefore, I propose, if Mr. Treves is finished, that we put it to a vote. All those in favor of keeping Mr. Merrick here?
BROADNECK: One moment, as far as I'm concerned this creature has no business being in our hospital. I think Mr. Carr Gomm's letter would be an excellent idea, and when you appeal for funds, I think you should appeal for a more appropriate place for him as well. I agree the British public is generous, and I'm sure that somewhere the creature will find a happy and permanent home, but not here.
CARR: I see. All, then, that move we keep Mr. Merrick here? All those opposed?
CARR: All those opposed?
CARR: I see.
BROADNECK: ( triumphantly ) Well then. In the meantime, of course, he needn't be turned out. He may stay in the rooms off Bedstead Square until such time as more suitable arrangements can be made, thus freeing the Isolation Ward for more deserving patients. Well then, Mr. Chairman, if there is nothing further to discuss, I move that we adjourn this meeting and all go bout our normal
CARR: I second the motion gentlemen. This meeting is adjourned. Somehow I don't think they quite
WOMAN: .terrible though his appearance is, so terrible indeed that women and nervous persons fly in terror from the sight of him, and that he is debarred from seeking to earn his livelihood in any ordinary way, yet he is superior in intelligence, can read and write, is quiet, gentle, not to say even refined in his mind.
WOMAN: I'd very much like to meet that gentleman. He sounds almost
#1 DOCTOR: ".in life until he came under the kind care of the nursing staff of the London Hospital and the surgeon who has befriended him."
#2 DOCTOR: Good publicity for the Hospital, at any rate.
#3 DOCTOR: Treves comes off well too, eh Freddie?
#4 DOCTOR: It was pleasant of you to join us this evening, Frederick.
#2 DOCTOR: Your Elephant Man dining out this I understand the kitchen ran out of hay this morning.
#4 DOCTOR: I understand the kitchen ran out of hay this morning.
FOX: ( slightly sourly ) Do continue reading, Mr. Stanley, ".it is a case of singular affliction brought about through no fault of himself; he can but hope for quiet and privacy during a life which Mr. Treves assures me is not likely to be long,"
#1 DOCTOR: ".it is a case of singular affliction brought about through no fault of himself; he can but hope for quiet and privacy during a life which Mr. Treves assures me is not likely to be long,"
#4 DOCTOR: The Elephant Man. Makes you sound rather more like a zoo-keeper than a surgeon, Frederick.
TREVES: Excuse me gentlemen. I seem to have lost my appetite. Good evening.
#4 DOCTOR: I say, what's he on about?
#3 DOCTOR: He's getting a bit of a swelled head, if you ask me.
FOX: ( coldly ) Well, no one did ask you Atkins. Frederick Treves is not only the most skillful surgical operator here, he's also a humanitarian of the highest order. You sound like a pack of whining school boys with your petty jealousies.
#3 DOCTOR: Look here, Fox, I simply said.
FOX: Oh belt up!
1ST WOMAN: There are cleaner rooms in the
1ST WOMAN: Who's all the fuss for, then?
2ND WOMAN: ( wiping her mouth ) Don't you know? It's for that strange Mr. Treves' Elephant Man? I hear he's got a trunk.
1ST WOMAN: Mr. Treves' Elephant Man? I hear he's got a trunk.
2ND WOMAN: Right, right.
2ND WOMAN: Blimey, now we're cleanin' up for circus animals!
ISOLATION WARD: Merrick sitting on his bed, hunched over in concentration reading an Illustrated London News. He is staring at a picture of the Eddystone Lighthouse.
MERRICK: ( reading softly ) "A silent shaft of stone on a deserted promontory, the lonely Eddystone is a beacon of aid and comfort to mariners of all nations."
TREVES: Good evening. How are you feeling?
MERRICK: Good evening. Very well, thank you. And you?
TREVES: Very well, thank you. I have something for you, John. I'm sure you'll enjoy it, it's very popular.
MERRICK: ( surprised ) Thank you. so much. oh it's
TREVES: I came to tell you that I'll be here early tomorrow morning. We're moving you to your permanent home. I'm sure you'll be very happy there, John. So get a good night's rest, there'll be new people to meet tomorrow. Good
MERRICK: ( weakly ) Good night.
NIGHT PORTER: Here. listen to this. This is a letter to THE London Times from the guvnor of the hospital. There is now in a little room off one of our attic wards a man named John Merrick, so dreadful a sight that he is unable even to come out by daylight to the garden. He has been called The Elephant Man on account of his terrible deformity.
NIGHT PORTER: .His appearance is so terrible that woman and nervous persons fly in terror at the sight of him. .and guess who can get you tickets to see him? Your own Sunny Jim!
NIGHT PORTER: Keep your shirts on. .When the time is right. Right now he's in the attic but tomorrow they're movin' him into Bedstead Square, right into my lap. then. for the right price you'll see something you'll never see again in your life.
MERRICK: ( wheezing )
TREVES: This is your new home, John.
MERRICK: This. is my new home?
TREVES: ( incredulous ) The hospital?
MERRICK: ( incredulous ) The hospital?
TREVES: Of course! What did you think?
MERRICK: ( almost sobbing ) How long will I stay here?
TREVES: I promise you. You will never see the inside of that horrible place again. You will never, ever go back to the workhouse. or that man. It's a splendid room, don't you think?
MERRICK: When I'm next moved may I go to a lighthouse?. or to a blind-asylum?
HALLWAY: We see Carr Gomm walking to his office. He is met at the door by an anxious Treves.
TREVES: Has the response picked up?
CARR: Frankly, Treves, it's not what I'd expected. A few small cheques. Well- wishers. Don't worry, these things undoubtedly take time.
TREVES: But he's so afraid he's going to be carted off. I've promised him that won't happen.
CARR: Well. I'll let you know if there's something in the afternoon post.
TREVES: Please do.
MOTHERSHEAD: Well, I think I can safely hand the duties over to you girls now. Mr. Merrick will require a bath every day. that way he won't pong quite so much. Nora, you can instruct Kathleen on the finer points of Mr. Merrick's bath. You'll be on your own tomorrow.
MOTHERSHEAD: Don't look so glum girls. Such enthusiastic volunteers should be more cheerful.
MOTHERSHEAD: Oh, and girls, under no circumstances are there to be any mirrors brought into this room.
KATHLEEN: He's. so ugly!
NORA: Ugly or not, you're going to help
NORA: Feeling better now, Mr. Merrick?
MERRICK: Kathleen's eyes go wide at the sound.
NORA: You look very nice in your new
MERRICK: Thank you very much.
NORA: Well, if there is nothing more, I suppose we'll be leaving you now.
MERRICK: No, nothing.
TREVES: You look splendid, John.
MERRICK: Thank you very much.
TREVES: When one is invited to tea, one must look one's best.
TREVES: Come and meet our quest, my love.
TREVES: John Merrick, I'd like you to meet my wife, Anne Treves.
ANNE: ( smiling ) I'm very pleased to meet you, Mr.
MERRICK: I'm very. John. what's the matter? John. why are you upset?
TREVES: John. what's the matter? John. why are you upset?
MERRICK: ( sobbing ) I'm not used to such kindness. From a beautiful woman.
ANNNE: Would you like a nice cup of tea, Mr. Merrick?
MERRICK: ( still sobbing ) Yes. thank you.
TREVES: Yes, a cup of tea would go nicely.
TREVES: John. would you like to see the rest of the house?
TREVES: Come with me, John. I'll show it to
KITCHEN: Anne is composing herself by busily fixing the tea and cakes. She stops for a moment, takes a breath, and then resumes her Treves and Merrick coming down the stairs. Merrick is calm now. They go into the sitting room, where Anne is just setting the tea tray out. Treves ushers Merrick to a highbacked sofa and sits him down. Merrick is very shy of Anne. Treves and Anne sit on the other side of the table.
ANNE: Mr. Merrick, sugar?
MERRICK: Yes please, two.
ANNE: One or two?
MERRICK: Two, please.
TREVES: John loves the house.
ANNE: Do you?
MERRICK: Oh yes. You have so many nice things, and so much room.
ANNE: Yes, we do have a lot of room. But you should see the place on weekends, when I see patients here. Sometimes there are so many, we have to set them down wherever we can. In fact, Mrs. Treves sometimes says that the only room she can call her own is the bedroom.
TREVES: Yes, we do have a lot of room. But you should see the place on weekends, when I see patients here. Sometimes there are so many, we have to set them down wherever we can. In fact, Mrs. Treves sometimes says that the only room she can call her own is the bedroom.
MERRICK: ( earnestly ) Well, it's a lovely bedroom. What do you call that thing above the bed?
TREVES: That's a canopy, John.
MERRICK: How is your tea, John?
TREVES: How is your tea, John?
MERRICK: It's very good. I'm enjoying my visit with you very much. It's so very kind of you to have me as a guest in your home. I'm sorry I made a spectacle of myself.
TREVES: Not at all, John.
MERRICK: I love the way you've arranged your pictures on the mantlepiece. Is that the way it's done in most houses?
TREVES: Oh yes.
MERRICK: Who are they of?
TREVES: Oh, our relatives. the children.
MERRICK: The children! May I see?
TREVES: Of course.
MERRICK: ( as if looking at an icon ) The Children. Where are your children
TREVES: Oh, they're gone for the day. with Friends. Ah yes, friends! How nice.
MERRICK: ( the word gives him pleasure ) Friends. Ah yes, friends! How nice.
ANNE: And here is one of Frederick's mother.
MERRICK: How lovely.
TREVES: And here are my mother and father.
ANNE: And here are my mother and father.
MERRICK: They have noble faces.
ANNE: ( a cord is struck ) I've always thought that myself.
MERRICK: Oh, yes.
MERRICK: ( ever so timidly ) Would you. would you like to see my mother?
TREVES: ( startled ) Your mother?
MERRICK: He reaches into his cloak and brings out the small portrait of the beautiful woman. Treves is absolutely amazed. Merrick gently hands the picture to Anne.
ANNE: Oh. why Mr. Merrick she's beautiful.
MERRICK: She has the face of an angel. She was an angel. She was so kind. so kind to me. It's not her fault, for in the fourth month of her maternal condition she was knocked down by an elephant. I'm sure I must have been a great disappointment to her.
ANNE: ( visibly touched ) Oh no, Mr. Merrick. No. No son as loving as you are could ever be a If only I could find her. If only she could see me now, here, with such lovely kind friends. You, Mrs. Treves, and you, Mr. Treves. Then maybe she would love me as I am. I've tried to hard to be good. Please. please.
MERRICK: If only I could find her. If only she could see me now, here, with such lovely kind friends. You, Mrs. Treves, and you, Mr. Treves. Then maybe she would love me as I am. I've tried to hard to be good. Please. please.
MERRICK: Please. please.
MERRICK'S ROOM: Merrick goes to his table and puts the box down. He hangs up his disguise, then goes back to the window and pulls the curtains aside. Moonlight bathes the table, illuminating the portrait of his Mother. John seats himself and sets the box in front of him. He reaches for a pencil, and then begins to draw windows on the front of the box.
MERRICK'S ROOM: Merrick, as before, is hunched over the table, pencil in hand. The sides of the box are covered with carefully drawn windows and archways. There is a knock at the door and Merrick, startled, looks up. Nora enters and puts the tray on the table. She glances at the box.
NORA: Good morning, Mr. Merrick.
MERRICK: Good morning.
NORA: What is this that you're doing?
NORA: ( pointing at the box ) What is it?
NORA: What? Oh! I see! It's St. Phillips. Oh, of course. Why. why that's very good, I mean you've gotten the windows and arches just right.
MERRICK: But it's so good, I mean. it's so very good.
NORA: But it's so good, I mean. it's so very good.
MERRICK: Thank you. very much.
NORA: Where did you get this box?
NORA: The hallway? Oh, the wastecan!
MERRICK: I meant no harm, it was the only place where I could find cardboard. I thought it has been thrown away.
NORA: It's alright, it was thrown away. No one wants it. It's just that it's a little dirty, that's all.
NORA: What's this?
MERRICK: The main spire.
NORA: The. oh, the spire! How silly of me, it's as plain as day. Mr. Merrick, where did you learn to do .I learned a long time ago.
MERRICK: .I learned a long time ago.
NORA: Oh, but how will you finish it? You haven't any more cardboard.
MERRICK: I'll have to find some more.
NORA: ( uncomfortably ) Yes. well, good day, Mr. Merrick.
MERRICK'S ROOM: Merrick is at his table working on his cathedral. There is a knock at the door.
MERRICK: Come in.
TREVES: Good morning, John.
MERRICK: Good morning.
TREVES: John, there's someone here who would like to meet you. Would that be
TREVES: John, I'd like you to meet one of the brightest lights of the British stage, Mrs. Kendal. Mrs. Kendal, John Merrick.
KENDAL: Good day, Mr. Merrick.
MERRICK: Good day.!
KENDAL: I've brought you some things. I hope you'll like, Mr. Merrick. I hope you don't think it too forward.
MERRICK: Oh, no.
KENDAL: I knew you'd understand. Here.
KENDAL: I want you to know that I don't go about giving my pictures to just Oh, no. I would never think it! It's so beautiful. You are so. I'll give it a place of honor, here, next to my mother.
MERRICK: Oh, no. I would never think it! It's so beautiful. You are so. I'll give it a place of honor, here, next to my mother.
KENDAL: She's very pretty, your mother.
MERRICK: Treves smiles at them. Merrick is a trifle nervous but Mrs. Kendal smiles at him and he relaxes a little.
MERRICK: Mr. Treves says that you are in the theatre. Do you live there?
KENDAL: Oh no, Mr. Merrick. I just work there.
MERRICK: Well, even to work there would be wonderful. Is it beautiful?
KENDAL: You've never been?
MERRICK: Alas, no.
KENDAL: Well you must go. It is one of the most beautiful places on earth. Of course, I'm rather partial.
MERRICK: Tell me about it, please!
KENDAL: It's very difficult to put into a nutshell, but I should say the theater is the shrine of the imagination, where one may suspend disbelief and travel anywhere in the world, to any time you desire. You may look over the shoulders of kings, unobserved, battle with ruthless tyrants, and marry the beautiful princess, all in the space of a few hours. Onstage you may be whoever you wish to be, do anything you please, and always, always live happily ever after. The theatre is all the brightest and best things of the world, Mr. Merrick. It is lights and music, gaiety and joy. It's. well, it's romance.
MERRICK: ( the magic word ) That's one thing the theatre has in great store. which reminds me. I have something else for you.
KENDAL: That's one thing the theatre has in great store. which reminds me. I have something else for you.
KENDAL: Have you read it?
MERRICK: No, but I certainly shall.
MERRICK: Romeo and Juliet. I know of this. "If I profane with my unworthiest hand, This holy shrine, the gentle fine is this: My lips, two blushing pilgrims, ready stand, To smooth that rough touch with a tender kiss."
KENDAL: Good pilgrim, you do wrong your hand too much, Which mannerly devotion shows in this; For saints have hands that pilgrims hands do touch, And palm to palm is holy palmer's kiss.
MERRICK: Have not saints lips, and holy palmers Ay, pilgrim, lips that they must use in prayer.
KENDAL: Ay, pilgrim, lips that they must use in prayer.
MERRICK: O, then, dear saint, let lips do what hands do. They pray, grant thou, lest faith turn to despair.
KENDAL: Why, Mr. Merrick, you're not an Elephant Man at all.
MERRICK: Oh no?
KENDAL: Oh no. no. you're a Romeo.
BYTES: So, there you are, my boy, my
GIRL: Mummy, listen to this!
MUMMY: Hush, Jennifer, can't you see Mummy's But it's about Mrs. Kendal, mummy! The actress you go on so much about!
GIRL: But it's about Mrs. Kendal, mummy! The actress you go on so much about!
GIRL: "Mrs. Kendal, always at the forefront of fashion and form, was seen leaving The London the other afternoon. No, dear readers, the most facile actress of our day has not been taken ill, but rather said she was 'visiting a friend'. And who was the lucky recipient of this attention? Quick enquiries proved it to be none other than Mr. John Merrick, The Elephant Man, with whom our readers are undoubtedly familiar. After a chat of three-quarters of an hour, Mrs. Kendal was kind enough to leave Mr. Merrick with an autographed portrait of herself. Owing to a disfigurement of the most extreme nature, Mr. Merrick has never been properly presented to London society. But knowing that wherever Mrs. Kendal goes, others inevitably follow, the questions arises: Will London society present itself to him?"
WOMAN: ( to her driver ) Parkins, whose carriage is that?
DRIVER: Well mum, that looks like Alexander, Lord Waddington's driver.
WOMAN: Lord and Lady Waddington! Well. Drive back to the house. I can't be seen in this.
MERRICK: Thank you for your kind gifts. I can't say enough about this ring. And this walking stick is ever so dashing. So much more elegant than my old one. More tea?
MERRICK: If you have a chill I can close the Oh no, no, no, I'm fine. Please. I mean, thank you.
THE LADY: Oh no, no, no, I'm fine. Please. I mean, thank you.
MERRICK: I don't get out as often as I'd like to, for some people DO find my appearance disturbing. Of course, I can't fault them.
MOTHERSHEAD: ( under her breath ) Watery headed bunch.
TREVES: I regret that I must leave you here, m' Lord, m' Lady. Thank you so much for coming. It was an act of the greatest charity.
LADY WADDINGTON: Oh no, Mr. Treves, the pleasure was all ours. Good day.
TREVES: Incredible, isn't it? Well, I think John has had enough visitors for one day, Mothershead. I've got a lecture at the college, I'll be back this Excuse me, sir. I'd like to have a word with you.
MOTHERSHEAD: Excuse me, sir. I'd like to have a word with you.
TREVES: Oh?. Well, quickly please, Mothershead, I'm overdue.
MOTHERSHEAD: I can't understand why you let those people go in there, sir.
TREVES: Now Mothershead, you have to understand that this is very good for John. He relishes contact with people outside the hospital.
MOTHERSHEAD: But you saw them, sir. They couldn't hide their disgust. They don't care anything for John, they're just trying to impress their friends.
TREVES: Aren't you being just a little harsh, Mothershead? You yourself hardly treated John with much loving kindness when he first arrived.
MOTHERSHEAD: I bathed him, didn't I? I fed him and cleaned up after him! If loving kindness can be called care and practical concern, then yes, I did treat him with loving kindness, and I'm not ashamed to say it.
TREVES: You're right, Mothershead, please forgive me. Of course, I appreciate everything you've done for John, and I'm glad that you are concerned about his welfare. But, I'm the physician in charge and I must do what I think best. I'm also very late, so please forgive me. If you ask me, sir, he's just being stared at all over again.
MOTHERSHEAD: If you ask me, sir, he's just being stared at all over again.
MERRICK'S ROOM: We pan across Merrick's bookcase, now quite full, and we see a few titles: "Moll Flanders", "Emma', "Jane Eyre", "Pamela", and then to Merrick. He and Treves are reading poetry
MERRICK: When will the stream be aweary of flowing under my eye? When will the wind be aweary of blowing over the sky? When will the clouds be aweary of When will the heart be aweary of beating, and nature die?
TREVES: Never, oh! Never, nothing will die. the stream flows the wind blows the heart beats Nothing will die.
MERRICK: Mr. Treves, there is something I've been meaning to ask you for some Yes, John?
TREVES: Yes, John?
MERRICK: .Can you cure me?
TREVES: No John, I can't. I can care for you, but I can't cure you.
MERRICK: I thought as much.
TREVES: There's a knock at the door.
MERRICK: Come in.
TREVES: Are you looking for me, Sister?
NORA: No sir, Mr. Merrick. I have something for you.
NORA: I thought these things would be helpful with your cathedral. The cathedral is coming along nicely.
TREVES: The cathedral is coming along nicely.
MERRICK: ( bending over the model ) Yes, soon I will start the main spire, but I must finish these columns first, How kind of her!
TREVES: How blind of me. Is there anything else, John, anything at all that I could get for you?
MERRICK: Oh no! There is nothing! I have everything, you have given me everything I could possibly want. I am happy every hour of the day. I only wish there was something I could give to you.
TREVES: Please John, it would give me so much pleasure to give you something. Something just for yourself. Isn't there something you would like to
TREVES: You want a dressing bag, John?
MERRICK: You don't think it's too gaudy, do
HALLWAY: Mrs. Mothershead finds Treves walking slowly down the hall, looking at the ad.
MOTHERSHEAD: Mr. Treves, some more books arrived for Mr. Merrick.
TREVES: Thank you, Mothershead. Have a porter put them in my office.
MOTHERSHEAD: Yes sir. What's that?
TREVES: A dressing bag.
MOTHERSHEAD: Very smart indeed.
TREVES: Yes. John wants it.
MOTHERSHEAD: A dressing bag?
TREVES: You don't think it's too gaudy, do John thinks it's very dashing. Something no gentleman should be without. I'm inclined to agree.
MOTHERSHEAD: John thinks it's very dashing. Something no gentleman should be without. I'm inclined to agree.
TREVES: John thinks it's very dashing. Something no gentleman should be without. I'm inclined to agree.
MOTHERSHEAD: A dressing bag?
MERRICK: FADE TO BLACK:
TREVES: You stay with me.
ANNE: ( calling from the next room ) Dinner will be served, shortly, dear.
ANNE: More romances for John?
TREVES: ( far away ) .Freddie! What's the matter? You've been like this all evening.
ANNE: .Freddie! What's the matter? You've been like this all evening.
TREVES: Oh. I've just been thinking about something that man Bytes said.
ANNE: Oh, Freddie. What could that wretched vampire say to upset you?
TREVES: That I am very little different from Oh that's absurd, Frederick. No, no Frederick, that's all wrong! John is happier and more fulfilled now than he has ever been in his entire life. And, that is completely due to you.
ANNE: Oh that's absurd, Frederick. No, no Frederick, that's all wrong! John is happier and more fulfilled now than he has ever been in his entire life. And, that is completely due to you.
TREVES: But why did I do it? What was this all for? So John Merrick could live out his last days in peace and comfort? Or so I could become famous?
ANNE: Frederick, just what is it that you are saying?
TREVES: .Am I a good man or am I a bad Oh Frederick.
ANNE: Oh Frederick.
ANNE: You're a good man. A very good man.
CARR: Ahh! Broadneck! You'll no doubt be pleased to know that we've received a smashing response to my letter. It's all very heartwarming, though several letters do mention how beastly it would be to part the poor fellow from Mr. Treves and the staff, but since the committee insists.
BROADNECK: ( scowling ) Good day, Carr Gomm.
CARR'S OFFICE: Mothershead is standing by the desk looking through a small stack of mail.
MOTHERSHEAD: Is this all there is for John?
CARR: I'm afraid so, Mrs. Mothershead. Perhaps tomorrow.
HALLWAY: We see in a pair of hands holding a buff colored envelope embossed with the Royal Seal. We follow the hands down the hall to a door where one of the hands knocks next to the "F.C. Carr Gomm" sign, then enters the office.
CARR'S OFFICE: Carr Gomm and Mothershead look up to see a porter with the buff envelope enter. Carr Gomm takes the letter and the porter exits. Carr Gomm opens the letter and reads, his expression changing from concern to delight.
MOTHERSHEAD: What is it? What is it?
TREVES: Don't you think this is a bit premature? We don't have the backing yet to.
CARR: Steady on, Treves. Have a seat.
CARR: Gentlemen, I know we begin every meeting by reading the minutes, but in the interest of speed I think we should conclude a matter discussed previously, to wit, that of Mr. John Merrick, the Elephant Man.
CARR: Mr. Broadneck?
BROADNECK: Mr. Chairman! I was under the distinct impression that we had concluded discussion of this disagreeable matter. Had we not ascertained that an Elephant Man is not acceptable as a patient? Have we not, very generously, allowed the creature to use two of our rooms until such time as he could be properly disposed of? Have we not.
MERRICK: I must be more careful!
BROADNECK: Which brings to mind my next point. The rules, gentlemen, the rules. In a society such as ours, it is of paramount importance that we not stray from the established order. Has that order not already been fearfully strained by allowing this. this. sideshow exhibit to take up residence, however temporary, in two very useful rooms, the purpose of which would be far better served in accommodating treatable patients, patients to whom this hospital was originally dedicated? I believe we have a duty.
MERRICK: .Ladybug, ladybug, fly away home. it's cloudy out, I know, but remember; behind the clouds there is always the sun.
BROADNECK: .In light of these facts, our course is clear. The question is not whether to accept this creature as a patient, the question is when will those rooms be vacated for use by better qualified, more deserving cases? I move that this Elephant Man be removed from the premises immediately. We have a sacred duty to cure the sick, not care for circus animals. That is my last word on the subject. Mr. Chairman, shall we vote?
CARR GOMM: I take it, Mr. Broadneck, that your mind is fixed on this matter?
BROADNECK: Mr. Chairman! Don't you have ears? I am unalterably opposed to any.
BROADNECK: .No, my mind is made up on this, and I am resolved to stand firm. You shall not sway me. May we now vote, Mr. Chairman, at long last?
CARR: Yes, I believe that time has come.
1ST FOOTMAN: Gentlemen, Her Royal Highness Alexandra, Princess of Wales.
ALIX: Good morning, gentlemen. I hope I am not interrupting?
CARR: Indeed not, your Highness. Your presence is always greatly appreciated. We were just about to put the matter of Mr. Merrick to a The Princess is very interested in Mr. Merrick's fate.
ALIX: Indeed I am sir, as is the Queen. I have a brief communication from her Highness which she has requested I read to you: To the Governing Committee, London Hospital. I would very much like to commend you for the charitable face you have shown Mr. John Merrick, the Elephant Man. It is laudable that you have provided one of England's most unfortunate sons with a safe and tranquil harbour, a home. For this immeasurable kindness, as well as the many other acts of mercy on behalf of the poor, of which Mr. Carr Gomm has kept me informed, I gratefully thank you. Signed Victoria, Empress of India, Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland. I am sure you gentlemen may be counted on to do the Christian thing.
CARR: Thank you very much, your Highness, you may be sure we shall.
CARR: Well then, I move that Mr. John Merrick be admitted to the London Hospital on a permanent basis, on condition that the Hospital shall receive a yearly payment equal to the cost of occupying one bed, and that the funds for his care shall be clearly separate from hospital funds. All those in favor.
CARR: The motion is carried.
CARR: Well, now we may go about our normal
MERRICK'S ROOM: Merrick is working on his cathedral. It is almost finished. He is detailing the spire, carefully painting in the stonework. There is a knock at the door.
MERRICK: Please, come in.
TREVES: ( smiling broadly ) Good afternoon, John, Mr. Carr Gomm has something he would like to say to you.
CARR: Mr. Merrick, it is my great pleasure to welcome you, officially to The London Hospital. The Governing Committee this morning voted unanimously to provide you these rooms on a permanent basis. This is your home now. I'm so very, very pleased for you.
TREVES: So you see, John, there's no need for a lighthouse. All your friends are here.
MOTHERSHEAD: Welcome home, John.
MERRICK: .my. home?
TREVES: Yes, John.
MERRICK: You did this for me?
TREVES: Please. please thank the governing committee for me. I will do my utmost to merit their kindness.
MERRICK: Please. please thank the governing committee for me. I will do my utmost to merit their kindness.
MERRICK: ( trying the words on for size ) My home.
TREVES: There is one more thing, John. Here.
TREVES: Is it the one you wanted?
MERRICK: Oh, Mr. Treves. Mr. Treves.
TREVES: Are you sure? Because I can take it Mr. Treves. Thank you my. friends.
MERRICK: Mr. Treves. Thank you my. friends.
MERRICK'S ROOM: Merrick is alone, wearing his cloak and standing by the table, cradling the dressing bag. He takes each article out of the bag and lays it carefully on the table, all in very neat order. He stares at the elegant objects, then rearranges Merrick picks up the toothbrush, examining it with a sort of reverence. He does the same with the ivory-handled razors and the comb.
MAN: Here now, these lovely ladies ain't never seen it!
NIGHT PORTER: ( to Man ) You're on mate. ( to all the others ) Alright, alright, that's enough for this performance.
NIGHT PORTER: Hang on, hang on, there's always tomorrow night. Not to worry.
BYTES: Room for one more?
NIGHT PORTER: At the right price.
NIGHT PORTER: There's room.
BYTES: Well, let's be off then.
NIGHT PORTER: Quietly now! Quietly! We don't want to scare him.
MERRICK'S ROOM: ( Merrick as before ) he reaches over to the picture of Mrs. Kendal and picks it up. We see his face reflected in the glass. Merrick sets the picture down on the table. He takes up one of the silver brushes and, using the picture as a mirror, neatly brushes his hair over his monstrous skull. He lays the brush down in its specific spot. Merrick takes his ring and puts it on his left hand. He opens the cigarette case and stuffs one into his right hand. He takes up his walking stick, breathes deeply, then walks around the room in a slow circle. Merrick is transforming himself. Merrick comes back to the table and examines his reflection in the picture. With the ring, the stick, the cigarette and his neatly brushed hair, Merrick is the very image of a dashing young man about town. He inclines his head to the At this moment the door bursts open. The Night Porter stands Merrick is frozen, caught. Seeing Merrick in his outfit, the Night Porter's jaw drops. They both stare at each other. The Night Porter begins to laugh hysterically. Merrick frantically begins to put away his dressing bag articles. When Merrick starts taking off his ring, the Night Porter comes over to him and grabs him by the cloak.
MERRICK: Hello, my name is John Merrick. I am very, VERY pleased to meet you! Curtain time!!!
NIGHT PORTER: Curtain time!!!
NIGHT PORTER: No, no! You look lovely. Don't change a thing, darling. You look like the bleedin' Prince of Wales. My friends. The Elephant Man!
NIGHT PORTER: My friends. The Elephant Man!
BYTES: ( to Man ) Perhaps the ladies would like a closer
WHORES: Come on Jack. No. No, don't.
MAN: 'Cor, he's a real ladies' man, come on. give the ladies' man a kiss.
MAN: Come on, you'll give him a kiss.
WHORE: ( still laughing but a trifle scared ) Come on, Jack. Here that's enough romance. Now into A prince needs a harem!
MAN: Here that's enough romance. Now into A prince needs a harem!
NIGHT PORTER: A prince needs a harem!
NIGHT PORTER: Mind his head. You'll kill him.
NIGHT PORTER: ( yelling ) Quiet down. Quiet down. You'll have the whole place down on us.
BYTES: ( outside, yelling loudly ) Bring him out then, so's we all can see him. Everyone outside!!!
NIGHT PORTER: Everyone outside!!!
ONE MAN: Give 'im a drink.
NIGHT PORTER: ( to the crowd behind him ) Meet you at the Peacock.
NIGHT PORTER: ( laughs drunkenly ) He's had 'is fill for one night.
NIGHT PORTER: ( to Merrick ) I did real well tonight.
NIGHT PORTER: Here. buy yourself a sweet.
BYTES: Aren't you glad to see me?
MERRICK: Bytes lifts Merrick up off the bed. He reaches out for Merrick's cloak. We slowly PAN over all the smiling women's faces as we hear the following:
TREVES: Treves surveys the empty room. Quickly he goes into the side bathroom. He comes out with a very worried face. He goes to the cathedral model and is horrified by its condition. He finds the spire and then Merrick's Mother's picture. He quickly leaves the room and walks down the hall. The Young Porter, waiting in the hall, approaches Treves and stops Now we see Mrs. Mothershead entering Merrick's room surveying the same scene. Her face hardens as she sees the picture of Merrick's Mother.
YOUNG PORTER: Mr. Treves?
MOTHERSHEAD: Good God. John?
OPERATING THEATRE: The Night Porter is adding fresh coal to the operating room stove. The old coals were still quite hot and now smoke begins to rise. The Night Porter takes up the bellows and begins to pump the coals into a blaze. The door bangs open and Treves is there, standing stock still, in a cold murderous rage.
TREVES: WHERE IS HE? WHERE IS MR. MERRICK? I. I don't know what you mean,
TREVES: WHERE IS MR. MERRICK? I. I don't know what you mean,
NIGHT PORTER: I. I don't know what you mean,
TREVES: Don't lie to me. I know all about it. You were SEEN. Where did you take him?
NIGHT PORTER: Take him? Now wait. I didn't take him anywhere. We were just having some fun. We didn't hurt him. just having a laugh, that's all.
TREVES: HE'S GONE! When I left him, he was in his bed, safe and sound.
HE'S GONE!: NIGHT PORTER
NIGHT PORTER: When I left him, he was in his bed, safe and sound.
TREVES: YOU BASTARD! You tortured him. YOU TORTURED HIM, you bastard. WHERE is
HE?: NIGHT PORTER ( enraged )
NIGHT PORTER: ( enraged ) YOU'RE NOT LISTENING TO ME! I ain't done nothing wrong. People pay to see your monster, Mr. Treves. I just take the money.
TREVES: YOU'RE THE MONSTER! YOU'RE THE FREAK! GET OUT! YOU'RE FINISHED!
NIGHT PORTER: Have a care, Mr. Treves. I ain't afraid of you! You and your bleedin' Elephant Man! I'm glad what I did! And you can't do nothing! Only Mothershead can sack me.
MOTHERSHEAD: OUTSIDE THE SHOP ( DAY ) Treves is standing in the street looking at the now bare shop front. He walks to the window and tries to clean a small circle in the glass. He peers in. From inside, through the smeared dirty window, we see Treves' distorted face.
BYTES: Still haven't eaten, eh?
MERRICK: Bytes. please!
BYTES: Eat, my treasure, I want you healthy. I'm beginning to feel your weight.
BYTES: I'm beginning to feel your weight.
BYTES: .The result is plain to see. Ladies and Gentlemen. THE TERRIBLE ELEPHANT
MAN!: He raps twice with Merrick's silver-tipped walking stick and pulls the poster up. Merrick is standing unsteadily in the wagon. He is quite sick. The audience gasps and shudders. A few shrieks are heard. The Elephant Man is always the Elephant Merrick slowly turns around, the audience gasping at the sight of the horrible tumors. Bytes raps the walking stick Merrick begins a series of awkward movements, his pained version of a dance. Without his walking stick it is very difficult for him, but he strives to do it. Some of the crowd laughs at this, others shudder at the strange sight. Suddenly Merrick falters and comes to a stop, breathing irregularly. Seeing this, Bytes goes to him and bringing the stick behind Merrick, out of view of the audience, jabs him savagely in the back.
BYTES: Turn around!
BYTES: Merrick begins a series of awkward movements, his pained version of a dance. Without his walking stick it is very difficult for him, but he strives to do it. Some of the crowd laughs at this, others shudder at the strange sight. Suddenly Merrick falters and comes to a stop, breathing irregularly. Seeing this, Bytes goes to him and bringing the stick behind Merrick, out of view of the audience, jabs him savagely in the back.
BYTES: Merrick groans with pain and some of the people in the first row flinch back. Merrick begins to dance again as people throw coins onto the stage, which the boy gathers and puts into a cap.
BYTES: Eat, my treasure. Eat. I said eat!
BYTES: ( angry ) Eat. I said eat!
BYTES: Eat, damn you. EAT! EAT!
BYTES: I said EAT!!
BYTES: The result is plain to see. Ladies and gentlemen. THE TERRIBLE ELEPHANT
BYTES: Turn around!
BYTES: Merrick's eyes look painfully up to the heavens and he begins to shuffle clumsily about the platform. Without his stick this is very difficult for him, causing him great pain. It is a humiliating spectacle and the crowd unimpressed by the halting movements of the monster begins to heckle him. Bytes seeing that the dancing isn't being received well moves to place a stool next to Merrick.
BYTES: ( rapping ) Up! Up!
BYTES: Give the call of the elephant!
BYTES: Merrick tries again but there is no improvement. The crowd begins to jeer at Merrick, exhorting him to make the call of the elephant. Merrick is now almost swaying on the stool. He attempts to step down, but as he does it finally becomes too much for him and he collapses into a heap on the wagon floor. The crowd is no longer in the least bit challenged by this piteous mess and they break out into a vocal fury, throwing objects at the wagon. Bytes is humiliated at first, and then is quickly angry. He turns to Merrick.
BYTES: Get up you miserable bastard!
BYTES: I SAID, GET UP! I'm beatin' a dead horse.
BYTES: ( realizing it's no use ) I'm beatin' a dead horse.
BYTES: Another bleedin' heart!
BYTES: You sly bastard. You're doing this to spite me, aren't you!
BOY: Aw, Bytes, he's sick.
BYTES: He's doing it to spite me, I tell you, and it's got to stop!
BOY: He's sick, Bytes. He's going to die.
BYTES: ( enraged ) If he does it's his own fault! But I'm not burying that swollen bag of
BOY: What are you going to do?
BYTES: I'll show you! I'll show you! Shut up!
BOY: Shut up!
BYTES: Shut up!
BOY: Bytes, please.
BYTES: The boy looks to Merrick who is in a panic trying to keep himself away from the monkeys who scream loudly in all the excitement. We hear Bytes, cursing to himself, in the wagon. The boy, frightened, goes to the fire and pulls a blanket around him. Merrick crawls to one corner of the cage away from the screaming monkeys. Suddenly one of the braver ones leaps at Merrick with a scream, biting him on the arm, and moving quickly away. Merrick yelps with pain and struggles to move away. The other monkeys have gotten the idea now and they begin to move warily toward Merrick, screeching threateningly. Another leaps out and clings to Merrick's shoulder, biting and scratching furiously then he too jumps away. Merrick cries out. Now the monkeys are getting braver and more and more of them lash out at Merrick with their paws. They jump onto him with savage screams, biting him on the head and neck and shoulders. Merrick's eyes search for escape. The monkeys come on and on without a break, screaming madly all the while. With his good hand Merrick begins to pull himself up with the aid of a bar. The monkeys strive to pull him down. Merrick looks through the bars at the wagon and screams frantically.
MERRICK: Bytes! Bytes, please!!
MERRICK: NO! I AM NOT AN ELEPHANT! I AM NOT AN ANIMAL!! I AM A HUMAN BEING! I. AM. A MAN! I AM A MAN!!
PLUMED DWARF: You alright?
MERRICK: PLUMED DWARF
PLUMED DWARF: Want to come out?
MERRICK: You're English.
PLUMED DWARF: Of course! You want out?
MERRICK: PLUMED DWARF
PLUMED DWARF: Won't be a moment.
PLUMED DWARF: We've decided. You've got to get away from here.
BOY: ( handing over the things ) Here. you'll need these.
PLUMED DWARF: Good of you, mate.
BOY: ( to Merrick ) Good luck.
MERRICK: But. but.
BOY: I'll be alright.
MERRICK: Thank you, my friends.
PLUMED DWARF: I'll go in with you, you'll need a
PLUMED DWARF: I'm just going to help my friend on This'll do. I'm sorry I could only get you a third class ticket, but it's all we Oh no, my friend.
PLUMED DWARF: This'll do. I'm sorry I could only get you a third class ticket, but it's all we Oh no, my friend.
PLUMED DWARF: I'm sorry I could only get you a third class ticket, but it's all we Oh no, my friend.
MERRICK: Oh no, my friend.
PLUMED DWARF: Say hello to London for me. I miss Oh, yes.
MERRICK: Oh, yes.
PLUMED DWARF: You know, I saw you once there, in London. You're a great attraction.
PLUMED DWARF: Luck, my friend, luck. Who needs it more than we?
CONDUCTOR: I'm sorry, you'll have to leave now.
CONDUCTOR: This is the end of the line, you'll have to leave now.
TICKET TAKER: Wait! One more!
TICKET TAKER: You'll have to hurr.
ON BOARD: Merrick is crouched in a dark corner underneath a stairway, his head resting on the points of both knees, his arms clasped around them. He is asleep. A few drops of rain fall and hit his cap, then a few more and finally it begins to rain. He wakes up and looks around. He hears a voice.
YOUNG MAN: Finally! Dover!
MOTHER'S VOICE: Little beast! I thought mummy told you not to bring that horrid thing. Can't you behave? Mummy! Mummy! Look at that man! His head, it's huge! Mummy, why is his head so big? Mummy? Mummy?
BOY: Mummy! Mummy! Look at that man! His head, it's huge! Mummy, why is his head so big? Mummy? Mummy?
MOTHER: Do be quiet Little Jim. Can't you see Mummy is speaking?
LITTLE JIM: Hey Mister, why is your head so big?
LITTLE JIM: Two other BOYS join Little Jim. The three of them watch the escaping Merrick, then move off after him. Merrick is frantically trying to make it to the archway. The three boys appear behind him and call out.
BOYS: Mister! Mister!
LITTLE JIM: Why don't you answer me?
LITTLE JIM: Now I'll see you. My son! My son! Help!
MOTHER: My son! My son! Help!
MOTHER: Stop that man! Stop that man!
MERRICK: ( quietly to himself ) I am not an animal. I'm not. I'm not. I am a man.
MOTHERSHEAD: There's a policeman to see you, Sir.
BOBBY: Are you Frederick Treves, sir?
TREVES: The card changes hands.
THE URINAL: Treves enters and pushes through the crowd. He sees Merrick in a heap on the floor. The SERGEANT gets up to meet him in the middle of the room, but Treves keeps walking toward
SERGEANT: You know this man, sir?
TREVES: Yes, he's. my friend.
MERRICK: Mr. Treves! Treves.
TREVES: John.. how can you ever forgive
HALLWAY: Treves, Carr Gomm and Mrs. Kendal are walking down a hallway engaged in conversation.
KENDAL: It's all arranged. I'll send over some evening gowns for the sisters that you select to accompany Mr. Merrick. You'll be using the Royal entrance and Princess Alexandra herself will be there to welcome him to her private box.
TREVES: I'm very grateful to you, Mrs. Kendal. This is just the thing to help him forget his ordeal. John will be very excited.
KENDAL: Well it is a miracle he ever got back. And, I'm sure, Mr. Treves, under your expert care, he'll have many happy years ahead.
TREVES: I fear not, Mrs. Kendal. Even in the short time he was gone the size of his head has increased rapidly. as is his pain.
KENDAL: How awful for John.
TREVES: And yet, not once have any of us heard him complain.
KENDAL: Is he. dying then?
TREVES: Yes. There is nothing more frustrating, nothing that makes a physician feel more useless, than standing by watching his patient deteriorate. And when that patient is a friend, no. no, there's absolutely nothing I can do.
KENDAL: Well, it's all quite. I've never heard. It's quite.
TREVES: ( understandingly )
MERRICK: You women are such strange and wonderful creatures. Alas, it seems to be my fate to fall in love with each and everyone of you. I especially wish you could all be with me tonight. I'm finally going to the .The theatre.
MERRICK: .The theatre.
CHORUS: O for a Muse of fire, that would The brightest heaven of invention, A kingdom for a stage, princes to act And monarchs to behold the swelling scene! Then should the warlike Harry, like himself, Assume the port of Mars; and at his Leash'd in like hounds, should famine, sword and fire Crouch for employment. But pardon, gentles all, The flat unraised spirits that have On this unworthy scaffold to bring So great an object: can this cockpit The vasty fields of Rance? Or may we Within this wooden O the very casques That did affright the air at O, pardon! since a crooked figure Attest in little place a million; And let us, ciphers to this great On your imaginary forces work.
K. HEN: Fair Katharine, and most fair, will you vouchsafe to teach a soldier Such as will enter at a lady's ear And plead his love-suit to her gentle Your majesty shall mock at me; I cannot speak your England.
KATH: Your majesty shall mock at me; I cannot speak your England.
K. HEN: O fair Katharine, if you will love me soundly with your French heart, I will be glad to hear you confess it brokenly with your English tongue. Do you like me, Kate?
KATH: Pardonnez-moi, I cannot tell vat is "like me".
K. HEN: An angel is like you, Kate, and you are like an angel.
KATH: O bon Dieu! les langues des hommes sont pleines de tramperies.
K. HEN: What say you, fair one? That the tongues of men are full of deceits?
KATH: Oui, dat de tongues of de mans is be full of deceits.
K. HEN: I know no way to mince it in love, but directly to say "I love you". What! A speaker is but a prater; a rhyme is but a ballad. A good leg will fall; a straight back will stoop; a black beard will turn white; a curl'd pate will grow bald; a fair face will wither; a full eye will wax hollow; but a good heart, Kate, is the sun and the moon, or rather the sun and not the moon; for it shines bright and never changes, but keeps his course truly.
THE STAGE: The chorus steps out to give the epilogue.
CHORUS: Thus far, with rough and allunable Our bending author hath pursued the In little room confining mighty men, Mangling by starts the full course of their glory. Small time, but in that small most greatly liv'd This star of England: Fortune made his sword; By which the world's best garden he
MRS. KENDAL: Thank you for your warm greeting. Ladies and gentlemen, tonight's performance was very special to me, because it was very special to someone else, a man who knows the theatre and loves the theatre, and yet tonight is the first time he's ever actually been here. I would like to dedicate. the whole company wishes to dedicate, from their hearts, tonight's performance to Mr. John Merrick, my dear friend.
TREVES: Stand up, John. Let them see you.
MERRICK: Oh no, I couldn't.
TREVES: It's for you, John. It's all for you. Go ahead, let them see you.
MERRICK: ( quietly, to Treves ) I feel as if I've traveled my whole life just to stand here.
MERRICK'S ROOM: Merrick, in a night-shirt, is seated at his table working on his cathedral. Treves is nearby.
MERRICK: Wasn't Mrs. Kendal wonderful? I can't blame the King for wanting to marry
TREVES: Will the cathedral be finished soon, Yes, very soon.
MERRICK: Yes, very soon.
TREVES: Splendid. it's truly a masterpiece. Well, I suppose I'll be on my way now. I hoped your enjoyed yourself this evening.
MERRICK: Oh yes! It was wonderful!
TREVES: I'm glad, John. Goodnight.
MERRICK: Mr. Treves?
TREVES: Yes John?
MERRICK: Mr. Treves, tell me. tell me truly. Is it alright, did I make any mistakes that you can see?
TREVES: ( looking at the cathedral ) No, John, not one that I can see.
MERRICK: Then I shouldn't change anything?
TREVES: No, no, I wouldn't change a thing.
MERRICK: .I'll walk you to the door.
TREVES: Goodnight John. Sleep well.
MERRICK: You too, my friend. Goodnight.
MERRICK: It is finished.
MERRICK: John. Merrick!
JOHN'S MUM: Never, oh! Never, nothing will die; the stream flows, the wind blows, the cloud fleets, the heart beats.
JOHN'S MUM: Nothing will die.
THE END: Writers : Christopher De Vore Eric Bergren David Lynch
