ENTRAPMENT: Ronald Bass First Draft Screenplay December 2, 1996 Story by: Ronald Bass and Michael Herzberg
CRUZ: Baker. You got it solved? Actually. Yeh. What took you so long, Gin? I called 4:30 this morn.
GIN: I was with someone, all right? So? This is work.
CRUZ: So? This is work.
GIN: Hector, I hardly know the guy. Why be impolite to strangers?
CRUZ: Look at those assholes.
CRUZ: If the Vermeer were lying on that table, they'd toss their doughnuts on it.
GIN: Yeh, well, they didn't insure it, so they don't have to solve this. To them it's a crime. To us it's 24 mil, less re-insurance, which is. Only thirty percent, Gin.
CRUZ: Which is why you're on this.
GIN: He came in through the window.
CRUZ: That's not possib.
GIN: What's not possible is entry through the doors or the vents. That would have triggered instant alarm.
CRUZ: The windows are wired, too.
GIN: Only for trauma. They used smart glass, where the sensors respond to violation of the panel's integrity.
GIN: I think he scaled the wall, popped the frame. In one piece.
GIN: Then, he only had to deal with heat and motion sensors. They were on 60-second delay, so the owner wouldn't trigger the alarm just be walking arou.
CRUZ: The pane weighs 200 pounds, the building's 1100 feet high.
GIN: This particular guy is the best. The best there ever was.
CRUZ: Popping the frame would trigger the alarm. I wrote a program and ran it, Dumbo.
GIN: Here's how I figured it out.
GIN: No one arranges flowers like that. It was the draft from the window.
CRUZ: You said. This particular guy.
GIN: Andrew MacDougal.
CRUZ: Why not Houdini? Or Pretty Boy Floyd? Maybe Jesus Christ.
GIN: Because they couldn't do it.
CRUZ: He's been out of the business. For ten years.
GIN: Maybe not. No one ever proved, hell, even arrested him, for stealing anything. But we all know he was numero ichiban for thirty years. Why not forty?
CRUZ: Why? Because of the Bozo switch? Guys have been copying his pack- rat signature for decades. Maybe the thief wanted it to look like
GIN: A list of his private collection. Complete to three acquisitions last Thursday. No Vermeer. Nothing close.
CRUZ: No Vermeer. Nothing close.
GIN: Don't be a putz. This is his legitimate collection, which he buys. Presentable for any search warrant surprise party.
GIN: What he rips off, he fences. And the money feeds his portfolio of investments, which are daring, savvy, and obscenely succesf.
CRUZ: Oh, I get it. He has no interest in Vermeers, so that proves he stole one. By that logic, he oughta be a suspect most of the time.
GIN: You love to embarrass yourself. The auction. Where our client bought the painting.
GIN: The auction. Where our client bought the painting.
CRUZ: So he was there.
GIN: Staking it out. Why bid, when you can mark the buyer, and jack it within the month? At this moment, he is winging on JAL flight 307 to Narita, ostensibly to attend a prestigious auction at the Hotel Akura, which will include a mixed media collage/oil by Georges Braques, on which he supposedly has his eye.
GIN: At this moment, he is winging on JAL flight 307 to Narita, ostensibly to attend a prestigious auction at the Hotel Akura, which will include a mixed media collage/oil by Georges Braques, on which he supposedly has his eye.
CRUZ: But you know better.
GIN: Bet your ass. At Vegas odds. Research reveals three known fences, still at large, who are believed to have brokered Vermeers to black market buyers. Sandrine Palmer is hospitalized in Malta with ovarian
GIN: The other two. Live in Tokyo.
CRUZ: And you did all this since 4:30 this morning. Plus. You were polite to a Sounds like you're sorry you're already a friend.
GIN: Uh. I'm showing off.
MAC: Something of a habit?
MAC: You know the alleged value of this piece from some fucking computer, which has no clue of the price I can turn the scroll around for in 30 minutes.
GIN: No, you can't. It's sold.
MAC: Are you a confederate of my adversaries? Or are you just
MAC: Virginia Romay.
GIN: Gin, actually, Gin Romay. I was named after a card game.
MAC: Or a cheap cocktail. As in. I'll have a Gin Romay, please. With a twist.
GIN: You're supposed to be charming.
MAC: I'm supposed to be selective.
MAC: Art and Antiquities Acquisition Advisor, how alliterative.
MAC: And am I the antiquity?
GIN: In mint condition.
GIN: Look, I've studied you, I know. pretty much.everything.
GIN: Made your first millions selling scrap metal. Then, gold mining concessions, gems, art, and lately strategic metals for new technologies - platinum, zirconium, titanium.
MAC: You said. Everything.
GIN: The cat burglar stories? Why would anyone.with so much to lose.take those kinds of risks?
GIN: You'd have to be. Stupid.
MAC: Excuse me.
GIN: I didn't know Porsche made things like this.
MAC: Well, they don't.
MAC: .as a rule.
GIN: Recognize that?
GIN: My seller is in Shinjuku, we can go there tonight.
GIN: He wants 4.6 million. I can get it for three.
MAC: No, you can't.
MAC: Why you'd want to bring that foolishness to Japan, you're just pissing your investment down a bungee hole. You got Cubano this trip?
MAC: Seriously, put the money into pharmaceuticals or prostitution, something stable.
MAC: Garbage, perhaps. Or industrial
MAC: My favorite thing in life.
GIN: I'm staying here, what's your
MAC: Staying here, as well. You are in room.? One thirty-eight.
MAC: Will you send a half-bottle of Chateau d'Yquem '67 to Room 138, please? And some berries and chocolates for the lady to enjoy it with.
MAC: Actually, I was just across the room, dickering with a gentleman over the purchase of an interesting Spitzweg. Until I determined the painting was apparently stolen.
MAC: Goes against my grain. The DeKooning in your slide, the 4.6 million you can get for 3. Can you get it for 2 and a half?
GIN: And as if he believed her.
MAC: My checkbook is in my safe. You wait here.
GIN: Okay. I'll wait here.
GIN: That's my purse.
MAC: Just want to see if I'm with the person you say you are. Can't be too caref.
GIN: Are you all right? I have damaged the car of these kind people. Please help them call the police. May I use a washroom, please.
MAC: These are my papers, passport, car registration. If the police arri.
GIN: You're going to need stitches, let me get you to a hospital.
GIN: Really, this can all wait. I'll handle it.
MAC: That's actually. Very sweet. Might you have a First Aid kit, of some kind?
GIN: Mr. MacDougal? Sir?
GIN: Uh. Mr. Ma. Just 'Mac'. And whatever became of a gentleman's privacy?
GIN: I was worried, it's been twenty.
GIN: MAC ( O.S. )
MAC: I'm an old man. You probably You should see me without my teeth.
MAC: You should see me without my teeth.
MAC: Ah. Mustn't forget to zip up.
MAC: Odd place, this.
MAC: What do you suppose they make here? Video recorders?
GIN: Microchips, I think, for computers.
MAC: Bad investment. The best ones are here today.
GIN: This isn't the way to my sel. I've changed my mind. Mind telling me why?
GIN: Mind telling me why?
MAC: You can't get it for me at 2.5, can you?
GIN: Well, we can tr.
MAC: You were setting me up. The correct price is 2.8. You conspire with the seller to start at 4.6, so I'll be grateful when you 'bargain' him down to three. Close enough to fool some people. unfortunately.
MAC: I'm old. I know what everything is worth.
GIN: So where are we g.
MAC: I am going to the airport. You are going on to the rest of your life. Which.
MAC: .should be interesting.
GIN: You forgot your lugg.
MAC: The hotels deal with that. The things I need are always waiting at the next one. I don't carry. Baggage.
GIN: Sensible. And you're off to.?
MAC: Oh, that's highly personal.
GIN: I did so hope to impress you. I'm still hoping.
MAC: Young lady. I am old enough to be your grandfather. My father. That's part of the rush. Still on fo' airport?
GIN: Here. A reward.
MAC: A reward for what?
GIN: For not being old. After all.
MAC: You mean. Not as old as I look.
GIN: Do I deserve a reward?
GIN: It's so hard to find good casual sex, anymore. I'm probably out of practice.
MAC: What's hard to find. Is someone you truly want to be with.
MAC: Even for awhile.
GIN: It's lucky we stopped by my room, for the wine.
GIN: Otherwise, we'd never have found my bag was stolen. Until tomorrow.
MAC: Would that make it more stolen?
GIN: They even got my prescriptions.
MAC: Something you need? There are all-night chemists.
GIN: I take Prilosec. For stomach acid. And an inhaler. For asthma.
GIN: But since I didn't have to work all that hard tonight. Ouch. I had that coming.
GIN: Why would someone steal Every guest in this place must have more than a wannabe art dealer.
MAC: Ah. Maybe the thief thought you had something valuable in there.
GIN: Such as.
MAC: Well. Wannabe dealers make excellent fences. He thought I had a stolen painting. In my bag.
GIN: He thought I had a stolen painting. In my bag.
MAC: I'm joking, of course.
MAC: The Vermeer wouldn't fit.
GIN: Excuse me?
MAC: Why, did you do something wrong?
GIN: You said. Vermeer.
MAC: The most famous painting stolen this week.
MAC: If you don't keep up on your craft. You'll miss all the jokes.
MAC: I'm so glad I didn't leave Tokyo.
GIN: I love a guy who knows how to sweet talk.
MAC: There was a call. While you were sleeping.
MAC: An art dealer I know. He has a Monet. Minor, but it is Giverny. He'll let me have it for 5.3 million. We can maybe beat that. I agree. This is a bank debit card. It gives the bearer access to an account containing 4.6 and change. I dislike round numbers.
MAC: I'd like you to go down there, and pick up the painting. If that's all right.
GIN: If I'm there, he'll haggle. You just hand him the debit card, with that.luminous smile. And say, take it or leave it.
MAC: If I'm there, he'll haggle. You just hand him the debit card, with that.luminous smile. And say, take it or leave it.
MAC: Oh, dear. I thought you so wanted to make a good impression.
GIN: Thought I already did th.
MAC: And along with making an impression. You will also make 2 percent of the purchase price.
MAC: That's $92,000. And change.. For two hours work.
MAC: Any problems. Just give me a ring.
GIN: Stolen painting is it?
MAC: Of course not.
MAC: If it was. I wouldn't pay more than three.
OKATI: You doin' it.
GIN: I think there's some mista.
OKATI: You from Mac?
GIN: I'm from Mac.
OKATI: Lemme see card.
OKATI: Four million, six hundred thirteen thousand, five hundred?
GIN: You first.
GIN: Now bring me the real one.
OKATI: This as real as it gets, lady.
GIN: WITH her in SLO-MO, kicking and flailing and grasping her shoulder bag, and she. HITS the ocean like a ton of bricks. Disappears. Comes up, sputtering in the swirling water, as from out of the shadows of the pilings. .an engine ROARS to life, the BLUR of a custom JETSKI, Mac reaching to scoop the startled girl OUT of the water, and they. .BLAST OFF, as bullets RAIN helplessly after them. The AGENTS shouting into their cellulars, racing in frustration down the pier, which rapidly vanishes behind us, as. .Gin hangs onto Mac for dear life. This baby is REALLY hauling. He wears an orange waterproof slicker with matching trousers. Shouts back, against the noise.
MAC: ARE YOU PISSED OFF?
GIN: ACTUALLY. IT'S INCREDIBLY COOL! OH NOOOOOO.
GIN: OH NOOOOOO.
GIN: WE'RE GONNA DIE, AREN'T WE? JUST AS SOON AS I'M READY!
MAC: JUST AS SOON AS I'M READY!
GIN: FASTER, NOT SLOWER, YOU
MAC: HAVE TO GIVE THEM A SPORTING
MAC: .SOMETHING WE SCOTS LEARNED FROM THE BRITS!
GIN: I guess you're gonna explain all this, huh?
MAC: Dry clothes, you'll need them. In five minutes.
GIN: I'm supposed to change?
MAC: I won't look. Gentleman's word of hon.
GIN: There are a million
MAC: I've seen you naked. Give the boys a thrill.
MAC: You probably won't be dating any of them, so what the hell. These.these are mine!
MAC: Found 'em in your room. Perhaps the thief wasn't your size.
MAC: We have a business appointment. In four minutes.
GIN: Business, huh? Time has come to tell you. What business. I'm actually in.
GIN: Uh. Am I gonna like th. I'm a thief.
MAC: And now that I've told you. I'll have to kill you.
MAC: She slips the dry dress OVER her head.
MAC: .you can spend the most interesting three weeks of your life. Training.
GIN: Training for wha.
MAC: .followed by the most exciting night of your life. After which, you can walk away with 20 million untraceable dollars.
MAC: .which will come in handy. Things being what they are.
MAC: From now on. You can valet park.
GIN: And if I refuse? Don't. Please.
GIN: I mean, you won't me, I'm far too adorable.
MAC: Last night, at Fujitsu, I did some business. While you thought I was in the toilet. What could you possibly steal in 18 min.
GIN: What could you possibly steal in 18 min.
MAC: Each worth one million dollars. And change.
GIN: You hate round num.
MAC: I stole your suitcase when I left you at the bar. I have since sent it on to the States, with three chips, well hidden.
MAC: Since you aren't there to claim it, the bag will sit at Customs. Safe. Unless.
MAC: They receive. An anonymous. Tip.
GIN: That's entrapment.
MAC: No, entrapment is what cops do to robbers.
MAC: Blackmail. Is what robbers do to schmucks. Even adorable ones.
MAC: Pop quiz.
MAC: Admit it's a rush. The best day of your heretofore drab life.
GIN: Fuck you.
GIN: .accompanied by related foreplay.
MAN: Nickerson Carlsby, Mr. MacDuff, yes?
MAC: Banquo MacDuff. This is my associate-fiancee, Ms. Duncan.
CARLSBY: That is.fiancee I'm a hyphenate. Well, it's a pleasure, in this alien place, to do business with a countryman.
CARLSBY: Well, it's a pleasure, in this alien place, to do business with a countryman.
MAC: I'm a Scot. It's a different country. Culturally and historically. Well. They've brought you to quite the wrong place, I see. Thank God. In Penny Lane, the barber shaves another customer.
CARLSBY: Five feet thick with hidden rein- forcements, no way to drill through! Only the tip of our security iceberg. See these two Brinks
CARLSBY: Only the tip of our security iceberg. See these two Brinks
CARLSBY: The Captain keeps one key. The other is continually forwarded: to the Chief of Security at next port. There is no way to enter during voyage.
GIN: I like this.
CARLSBY: The best armed guard, rotated every six hours. A redundancy, of course, but we would rather be safe three times over than merely two.
GIN: Sound mathematics. What if there's a fire? In the
CARLSBY: Sprinklers. New design. Incredible power. The entire chamber is water- proof, fireproof, airtight. If the ship sinks, God forfend, your cargo is secure for salvage.
CARLSBY: And your cargo is.?
MAC: The bloody Japs bought up half the premium clarets in the universe. You may have heard.
MAC: The bloody Japs bought up half the premium clarets in the universe. You may have heard.
MAC: I'm in charge of shipping some 14,000 bottles, most quite rare, to a number of premium hotels in Hong Kong, Bangkok, Singapore, Phuket, and Penang.
MAC: All of which are destinations on your October voyage. Five months from now. However.
MAC: Wine. Doesn't prefer. To be
CARLSBY: Our 'delicate treasure' platforms, suspended on gimbals. Your cargo remains unruffled by roiling seas. Then, on arrival, is plucked.
CARLSBY: By that forklift, and gently deposited on dock through the cargo hatch.
MAC: Adequate. I suppose.
MAC: Did we see.a bathing pool. On deck?
CARLSBY: Oh, yes, sir. The Shikoku Maru carries sixteen luxury suite pas- senger cabins. The finest cuisine. For valued clients who prefer to cruise in privacy.
MAC: Mildly. Interesting.
MAC: Adequate. I suppose.
GIN: But dearest, in five months, we'll be in Cape Town.
MAC: Anything sooner? That goes perhaps from.say, Sri Lanka? To Jakarta.
CARLSBY: Why, yes. In three weeks.
GIN: At your insistence, I'm leaping to my death, and I don't know why!
MAC: Because. You're a greedy girl.
GIN: I'm not jumping until you about this, it's been two days!
GIN: Why are we going in three if the wine is on a different route months lat.
MAC: us a look at their security.
GIN: I knew that.
MAC: three weeks. Now can we jump?
GIN: The machine in those diagrams. on the back of the painting.
GIN: What does it do, make gold?
MAC: We're nearing the targ.
GIN: Why won't you trust me?
MAC: How do I know who you are, hmmn?
MAC: For all I know, your name isn't Virginia Romay. Maybe you're a cop.
GIN: Why would a cop do all th. Entrapment, remember? What cops do to robbers. Oh. That.
MAC: She THROWS her arms around his neck. Holds him close.
GIN: Mac, I'm afraid.
GIN: Of you. Smart girl. NEXT TIME, I'M ON TOP!
GIN: NEXT TIME, I'M ON TOP!
MAC: Consistent. And rather impressive.
MAC: All right, six and seven. Three and four.
MAC: Three and four.
GIN: What the hell are we building?
MAC: A chalet, I think. Or an outhouse.
MAC: Forty seconds.
GIN: Get your together, man, this is a professional operation!!
MAC: Very, very nice. Had a tour with the Mosad, did you?
GIN: Where does this fit in the game plan?
MAC: Oh, it doesn't. But one never knows.
MAC: You might need it with me.
GIN: .as she TUMBLES eighteen feet to. DISAPPEAR in an ocean of STYROFOAM packing bubbles, which EXPLODE in all directions like popcorn in a nuclear accelerator. She has totally VANISHED. Buried alive.
GIN: This one, I will
MAC: But you will, you'll get it all. You are actually.
MAC: Quite remarkable.
MAC: Take the rest of the evening off.
GIN: .no way I'm telling you shit.
GIN: .right now, than he is.
GIN: If I tell you where this is, you'll send back-up, and those morons will blow my cover, and I'll be too dead to accept your
GIN: Right to the wall.
GIN: Only romantically. I'll write to him in prison. Okay, it's your funeral. Next time I see you, I owe you a spanking.
GIN: Ooooo. Is that a promise?
GIN: Nope. I'm headed back to the hot tub. I'll call again, if I'm in the mood. Is it over?
MAC: What's amazing, is that only eleven workers died during construction of this thing. .thanks for sharing.
MAC: Of course, the others were saved by a safety net. Now, as for the suicides, they always jump facing the city. Avoids that tall fence about 50 stories down, see it, there?
GIN: I never liked you.
GIN: One act of fucking human kindness.
MAC: Call it a lapse.
GIN: And how does the game pl.
MAC: Oh, it doesn't. We came for the view.
MAC: To Ginger Baker.
GIN: I'm partial to drummers. If they played with Clapton and Winwood.
GIN: The prescription bottle. When you stole my suitcase.
GIN: Armand Baker was my husband, May 13 to October 27, 1982, he played alto sax, I was 17 years old.
GIN: He named me Ginger. He likes drummers, too.
MAC: And you get sentimental for him. Every time you order drugs.
GIN: I have I.D. in that name. I use it for various things I don't want traced. When credit unions turn their computers my way.
MAC: I could listen to you lie all night. Same here, fella.
MAC: Do you like diamonds?
MAC: You asked. Does the machine. Make gold.
MAC: Gold is shit. It's six thousand dollars a pound. Worth your weight in gold.?
MAC: That would put you at seven hundred thousand.
GIN: Would you pay it?
MAC: When the light hits you just right. I'd pay more.
GIN: The machine. That we are stealing. Makes diamonds?
GIN: Real ones?
MAC: Gem quality. First ever. God save Japan.
MAC: A diamond reactor takes graphite, runs it through a combination of lasers, electron beams, and scanning- tunnel mg microscopes.
MAC: This one uses krypton-fluorine laser, with a new isotope of krypton.
MAC: The atoms are rearranged. And the molecule of graphite becoznes a molecule of.
GIN: I hate it. When you make a point.
STEWARD: We will keep your passports in our safe until Jakarta.
MAC: Of course.
STEWARD: You are Suite 16.
GIN: .and never been kissed.
MAC: We had booked Suite 9.
STEWARD: 16 is our Tokugawa Suite, far superior, trust me.
STEWARD: You luggage is are your keys, the housekeeper will show you t. Oh. Can't we stroll around the port? Just a little?
STEWARD: I'd be on board in forty minutes. Just to be safe. Better safe. Than sorry.
MAC: Down there. Ten o'clock.
GIN: Are you dumping fuel?
MAC: Changed my mind. There's nothing on the instruments downrange. The longer she flies before she ditches, the less chance they notice on the
MAC: You should lose the oxygen tank at 8000 feet.
GIN: And how do I judge that? Babe's
GIN: So I just ask you on the way down? Or were you planning to e-mail me.
MAC: I hate a crybaby. You can do this.
GIN: FLARE, FLARE.
MAC: It's over, it's over.
MAC: Catch your breath, quickly. Hang on for the wake.
GIN: DO IT! GO!
MAC: HOLD TIGHT! IF YOU FUCKING INSIST!
HOLD TIGHT!: IF YOU FUCKING INSIST!
GIN: IF YOU FUCKING INSIST!
MAC: If I were you, I'd watch the desserts.
GIN: Boy, I'll bet you were in shape before you got old.
MAC: Too long ago to remember.
GIN: I can take it from here, thanks.
GIN: If you'd packed my primary chute right, I wouldn't ha.
MAC: Yes, you would. You're a girl.
MAC: Better angle.
MAC: You might want to move aside.
MAC: May I trouble you for the torch? Or would you rather just dance.
GIN: I know I packed it. Coal into diamonds. A wealth How do you know that's it? It's 12 by 9 by 7 feet. And it's the only thing worth waterproofing, in case the ship sinks. .you twit.
MAC: Coal into diamonds. A wealth How do you know that's it? It's 12 by 9 by 7 feet. And it's the only thing worth waterproofing, in case the ship sinks. .you twit.
GIN: How do you know that's it? It's 12 by 9 by 7 feet. And it's the only thing worth waterproofing, in case the ship sinks. .you twit.
MAC: I'm just finishing your sentence. Can't you answer a question with- out making me feel stupid?
GIN: I'm just finishing your sentence. Can't you answer a question with- out making me feel stupid?
MAC: Why would I bother? They don't look like flotation Shit. Well then, let's forget the whole thing.
GIN: Okay, it was a dumb ques. Let's get one thing straight. I don't work with partners much, because basically, I find most people to be idiots.
MAC: Let's get one thing straight. I don't work with partners much, because basically, I find most people to be idiots.
MAC: You, in contrast, are first-rate.
MAC: And if should start thinking the same. Now move your ass.
MAC: GPS transponder. Sends a scrambled signal by satellite.
MAC: Precise coordinates. You could find a golf ball in the Gobi Desert.
GIN: Where you g. Fork lift.
GIN: MAC ( turning back )
MAC: Finish up on the floaters.
GIN: Won't they hear it?
MAC: Thank God for redundant security.
GIN: How many tries do I get? One, before I beat you senseless, dump you over the side, and donate your share to charity.
GIN: You gotta work on that impatient How professional.
GIN: Uh. Thing on the left is the brakes? Or the thing on the right.
GIN: MAC, IT'S JAMMED!
MAC: JUMP, for God's sa.
MAC: You did activate the floaters.
GIN: I did say, 'Finish up on the floaters'. Surely, you heard me. Oh. Guess I did it m'self.
MAC: I did say, 'Finish up on the floaters'. Surely, you heard me. Oh. Guess I did it m'self.
GIN: .FLINGS them into the black ocean. Gone.
GIN: .I wouldn't do that.
MAC: Excuse me?
GIN: Well.I saw our suction things. .so I put 'em in my pack?
GIN: Or maybe. I put 'em there.
MAC: I like a quick study.
MAC: .no matter how many stones we make, the diamonds are just an And the meal.?
MAC: My contract. With DeBeers.
GIN: Oh my G.
MAC: Sensible folks, DeBeers. A world monopoly in diamonds based on one simple principle.something's only priceless if it's scarce.
MAC: These guys dig up all the diamonds on the planet, just to keep them out of circulation. Otherwise, you could buy 'em at the Five and Dime.
GIN: Watch the old guy stuff, they don't have dimestores anym.
MAC: Imagine the chaos
GIN: You said 'contract'.
MAC: We're sort of bounty hunters.
MAC: Our machine is worth dead. Than alive.
STEWARD: When you missed cocktails. supper. I thought of knocking on your door.
GIN: Oh, I strangers join us! Maybe later.?
MAC: Promise you an interesting time.
MAC: Or my name's not Banquo MacDuff.
MAC: .well, I doing with the rest of your life. But that's your own bloody affair, isn't it?
GIN: Yeh. Anyway, before you get too choked up on the farewell. I feel I owe you a confession.
GIN: Time has come to tell you. What business. I'm actually in.
MAC: Not here.
MAC: It only looks dangerous.
MAC: You couldn't fall off. Unless someone threw you over. More intimate. For a confession.
MAC: More intimate. For a confession.
MAC: What business. You are actually.
GIN: Yeh. I'm not an art dealer.
MAC: Of course not. You're a cop.
MAC: An insurance investigator for Webber Assurance, your boss is an idiot named Hector Cruz, you've been there four years and ten months, you're quite the rising star. I'm a thief, Mac.
GIN: I'm a thief, Mac.
GIN: For five years, I've used the database of every client Webber has to plan my jobs. Museums, banks, jewelers, rich people, I have floor plans, alarm codes, passwords, the works.
GIN: I've made a fortune. It's not Why n.
MAC: Why n.
GIN: Why wasn't it enough for you?
GIN: The Vermeer that was stolen from Hancock Tower? That was my job. I scaled the building with electromagnets, and parachuted down an air vent.
GIN: where we're going next, actua.
GIN: Yeh, we. You passed the audition. Imagine my relief.
GIN: I need a partner. For the biggest, smartest, job. Ever. The one you retire off of, because nothing else could ever compare with the rush.
MAC: Ever. Is such a long time.
GIN: This is a job that can only be done in one place, in one split-second in human history. If we miss that instant. We lose.
MAC: And it's worth.?
GIN: eight thousand million.
MAC: How much in shillings?
GIN: You're not a real trusting guy.
MAC: And I tried so hard to hide that.
GIN: It's two jobs. The first steals something priceless from the National Palace Museum in Taipei. We don't keep that. We trade it in for our ticket to the show.
MAC: One moment in time, you s.
GIN: Midnight, July 1, 1997. Eight days from now. The moment that Hong Kong is annexed by china.
GIN: 80-20 split.
MAC: Don't be so hard on yourself. It's your plan, you should take at least thirty perc.
GIN: He thinks this over.
MAC: 50-50. Or you can swim to Taipei.
MAC: What are you gonna do with six billion dollars that you can't do with four?
GIN: Hold the record. Alone.
MAC: Your share is 50%. And one dollar. I like what you left. In the hold.
GIN: I like what you left. In the hold.
MAC: You didn't even see wha.
GIN: A lump of coal. A pair of pliers. A note that said, 'Squeeze hard'.
GIN: Squeeze hard.
GIN: That's Madame Chiang Kaishek, she's my bud. An evil streak a mile wide.
MAC: No surprise.
GIN: I have a lot on my mind.
MAC: You look beautiful doing it.
MAC: Rather steal it.
GIN: National Palace Museum, Taipei, Taiwan. Repository of four thousand years of Chinese culture.
GIN: Works of gold, bronze, jade, onyx, pots and scrolls, paintings and porcelains and lacquer work. Every treasure the Kuomintang could loot before the Reds took over. Ever rob the place?
MAC: No. If memory serves.
GIN: You need to eat something, or are you ready for sex? The options seem so limited.
MAC: LOST in another brief subway rumble. He lightly VAULTS up through the doorway. Looks around, no Gin. Goes to the model. Lifts the note pinned to the Vermeer. Stumped. Not in his cultural database. He looks at the model, to see that the stretch of city between museum and mountain has been lifted away, revealing. .an underground RAILWAY TUNNEL between the two. Mac examines the tiny train, the tracks, the winding route. From the side walls, well above the tracks, huge VENTILATION PIPES open onto the tunnel. Starting at the museum end, they are labeled VENT #1, and so on. There are five. The last one shortly before. .the mountain. Where a cavernous opening is labeled BARRACKS. Tiny toy soldiers kneel on a landing, rifles in position to shoot at the oncoming train. And as Mac studies this curiously. .the nearby SUBWAY RATTLES the walls once more. Sounds like it's in the room, somehow. Mac rises. Saunters across the loft, and we see for the first time the enormity of this space. Suddenly, the floor ends, and we are looking down nearly thirty feet onto. .a spacious HANGAR, outfitted with 150 feet of RAILWAY TRACK, at the far end of which sits a full-sited TRAIN CAR, exactly like the one in the model. And just below us. .Gin crouches on a concave platform of corrugated metal, eighteen feet above the track. She holds a remote control device, which she uses to REV the train's engine, far down the line. She looks really tense.
MAC: Good morning.
MAC: Quite a parting gift. I would have settled for roses.
GIN: It's a joke. You know, a joke? People who have a sense of humor make them?
GIN: You're rich, go buy an American, have him fill you in on the culture.
MAC: Ah. American culture. Well, that is a joke. Relax. It's only eight billion Your Vermeer? I like this View Of Delft better than the larger one. The sky is more emotionally rendered.
GIN: Nice. When a sky is that.
MAC: Is it easier now? Not pretending.
MAC: Not pretending you're an innocent. Not pretending you.like me.
MAC: Here's a tip from an old-timer. Never forget who you are.
MAC: It gives you someone to be. When you stop pretending. So. Our train runs from the museum, through an underground tunnel. To a mountain.
GIN: Because the museum displays 10,000 relics at any given moment. But there are 60 times that many, stored in the mountain.
GIN: Which is why it's guarded. By an
GIN: The train shuttles relics to and from storage. It looks exactly like that.
GIN: I've been down the air ducts four times. The train always has two armed guards. Always travels between 32 and 36 miles per hour. Relics don't like to be jostled too much. Your model has five vents.
GIN: We go down the first. Back up the third, if you're lucky. If not, we have to get out by the fourth. Then we will.
GIN: Electromagnets, incredibly powerful. This switch is on-off.
MAC: Seems like overkill. For one simple jump.
GIN: Well, it's an eight billion dollar jump. You miss the train.you've missed the train.
GIN: We've got five days to grab the Bones, trade them for the Scan, and pull our 8 billion out of Hong Kong. Once midnight passes on July 1st.
MAC: .we've missed the train, yeh. The Bones? The Scan?
GIN: Oh. Have I neglected to fill in the details?
MAC: An oversight.
GIN: Which I learned from the master. Hey. Wish me luck. Jump sooner.
GIN: Be my fucking guest.
MAC: I'm too Know a dude named Wiley Coyote? Forget it.
GIN: Know a dude named Wiley Coyote? Forget it.
GIN: Isn't it easier now? Not pretending? Five years, you won't need
GIN: Five years, you won't need
MAC: We agreed. No underwear.
GIN: Overkill. I can do it with legs.
MAC: I'd lose the underwear.
GIN: The Oracle Bones date back to the Shang Dynasty, 3500 years ago. They are writings.carved into ox bones, tortoise shells.
GIN: The oldest Chinese writing any- where, the first proof of Chinese What makes Except it's Chien-lung, mimicking Sung Period. The color is far too It's all right, you have a nice
MAC: What makes Except it's Chien-lung, mimicking Sung Period. The color is far too It's all right, you have a nice
MAC: When you're old, you can do
GIN: There we are.
GIN: Last year, ancient artifacts were discovered in the Gulf of Mexico. An Olmec civilization, 3200 years old.
GIN: Amazingly, markings on these Olmec figures were identified as Shang Dynasty writing.
GIN: less, because it is the one that establishes the link. Proves that American civilizations descend from Chinese ancestors.
GIN: Exactly the kind of propaganda shit they eat up in Beijing. The mainland would pay anything to get its paws on th. SHIT! BLOODY HELL!!! Those are the coins. These are my legs. Amanda! Time for my pills!
GIN: .no, I don't think that way.
GIN: .and I suppose you do?
MAC: Get lonely? Sure, all the time. It's healthy.
MAC: What's unhealthy. Is denial.
GIN: Be real. you could never see yourself.you know, quitting the game. Settling.down.
MAC: Why, Ginger. This is so sudden.
MAC: You're in charge of ego and worrying. I'm in charge of keeping you alive.
MAC: These are plasma jet. All the force is directed forward, instead of dissipating in a sphere like a
GIN: I don't need th. Shut up.
MAC: You don't trust me, you won't get through this.
MAC: Try to adjust to that for three more days. After July 1.
MAC: .you'll never have to trust again.
MAC: Something. To look forward to.
GIN: WE HAVE TO ABORT!
MAC: HOW DO YOU EXPECT TO MAKE A CAREER OF THIS, IF YOU CAN'T TAKE A LITTLE
INCONVENIENCE?: The train LOUDER, closer, the alarm BLARING.
GIN: THEY'VE GOT AN
MAC: I can do this.
GIN: THERE'S THE FOURTH!
GIN: OUR LAST CHANCE, THE FIFTH IS AT THE BARRACKS!
GIN: WHAT ABOUT YOU? ALLOW US A MOMENT OF CHIVALRY.
MAC: ALLOW US A MOMENT OF CHIVALRY.
MAC: FIRST RULE. SAVE NUMBER ONE.
MAC: WHAT KIND OF A COUNTRY
SOLDIER: 21 Old Peak Road. In 45 minutes.
BUTLER: Will you please come this way?
MAC: I like this.
GIN: You like wha.
MAC: Not being told what the fuck we're doing.
GIN: You're on a 'need to know' basis. You'll get each step in time to execute, I thought you agreed to those condit. I like your not trusting me. Because it frees me to do the same.
GIN: I trust you. I only need to.
MAC: .remain in control.
MAC: Which is a sign of weakness.
MAC: I like that, too.
GIN: Col. Qiu glances up from his meal. Green PLA uniform, absurdly decorated, wraparound Gautier sunglasses. We recognize him as the man who took Gin's call in his Mercedes in Tienanmen Square. The man who accompanied the poor Minister of Finance to the ophthal-
QIU: You look lovely, Ginger. Is the rose for me?
GIN: Of course.
GIN: Col. Qiu Lai Chuen, this is Andrew MacDougal.
GIN: Real names here, darling. The Colonel and I have every incentive to keep each other's secrets.
QIU: Like the place, Andy?
MAC: Please. Mr. MacDougal will do.
QIU: This way. Doesn't matter if we My sentiments exactly.
MAC: My sentiments exactly.
QIU: This place was a gift. From its former owner. A Brit whose business will now happily continue to function. Perhaps.even expand. Planning to spend much time here?
QIU: Tho it has required many sacrifices.
GIN: The Colonel has divorced his wife. To facilitate the necessary entertaining of Western women.
QIU: Tho some are more entertaining than others.
MAC: Colonel. You are touching the woman I love.
MAC: From time to time.
QIU: You're a Scot. Would you like some 25-year-old Macallan?
MAC: Sure, I'll take a case. The Colonel told his Minister of Culture that he could mount a surgical raid to liberate this treasure from Taiwan.
GIN: The Colonel told his Minister of Culture that he could mount a surgical raid to liberate this treasure from Taiwan.
MAC: Ah. How much was the Minister told the raid would cost? Counting equipment, personnel, bribes, an even fifty million American. All in.
MAC: Which you can now keep.
QIU: He would have paid twice that. But my needs are modest.
QIU: Unlike. The woman you love. From time to time.
GIN: How do I look, honey?
MAC: Like a woman. Of mystery.
GIN: In the Hong Kong and Shanghai Bank Building. Is a room with two computers. One for you. And one for me.
MAC: Glad I have a function, here.
GIN: The room is a vault on the 14th floor. Access codes to that room are changed daily, computer pass- words on the hour, but.
GIN: codes. Their retinas will scan to unlock everything. One of these is China's Minister of Finance.
MAC: And his retinal plate is in there. Our trade for the great train robbery. All right, let's say we're in the door. Now what?
MAC: Our trade for the great train robbery. All right, let's say we're in the door. Now what?
GIN: Hong Kong has a huge portion of its holdings invested in foreign banks. In hundreds of separate accounts.
GIN: This CD ROM is programmed to send, instantaneously, thousands of instruc- tions, with all necessary confirmation codes, to transfer reasonably modest sums out of those accounts..
MAC: Two or three million at a crack, in odd numbers. Total, eight billion. And change.
GIN: Two or three million at a crack, in odd numbers. Total, eight billion. And change.
MAC: And you've set up a laundry.
GIN: Every wire transfer gets rocketed through a series of multiple switches, Austria, Uruguay, Antigua, The Channel Islands, the Caymans. I left that out.
MAC: You're forgiven.
GIN: Thank you. As soon as each deposit lands somewhere, it's shot somewhere else, til the Mafia couldn't find it.
MAC: But those transferring the 8 billion dollars. They're recorded in the main computer.
GIN: Nope. The CD instructs the computer to erase the real transactions. And replace them in its memory with an innocuous loan coded XJ6. Little homage to Limeyland, there.
MAC: Dearest. The
GIN: Wrong. The CD instructs the computer to over-report all account totals forever, in the exact amounts we've lifted. So the Chinese think the money's still there.
MAC: The money. Is still. Missing.
GIN: Sure, the foreign banks know they sent out some money. But they think Hong Kong knows it, too. And since we're leaving plenty in every account.
MAC: The shit doesn't splatter. Until the first account runs dry. brilliant part of the whole I was hoping there'd be one.
GIN: brilliant part of the whole I was hoping there'd be one.
MAC: I was hoping there'd be one.
GIN: Admit it, so far you're blown away. It does sound like the beginning of a beautiful friendship.
MAC: It does sound like the beginning of a beautiful friendship.
MAC: Pity it will be over. In 21 hours. Bet you say that. To all the
GIN: Bet you say that. To all the
MAC: No, ma'am.
MAC: Only the best of them.
MAC: Nice of the Colonel to provide an
GIN: Well, I promised him a bonus. Five million. Comes out of your share.
MAC: .long as I don't have to have sex with him.
MAC: So all that time, sitting at your computers. All the research, the access codes your job allowed you to steal, floor plans, schematics. setting up all your bank accounts.
MAC: Years of work, comes down to.. .six minutes. Don't be nervous. Easy come, easy go.
MAC: Your share prob'ly works out to, what? Dollar and a quarter an hour?
GIN: What's your point? That I like you, Ginger.
MAC: The dedication, the skill, the guts.
MAC: I'm going to see you get everything you deserve.
MAC: Woman. If you can't have fun, right now. You're in the wrong business.
GIN: Uploading. And you've got. two minutes, fifty seconds.
MAC: So let's see. Across town at the British Consulate.
MAC: .then, deep in the high-tech bowels of the Bank of China Building, just across the square.
MAC: I feel for these boys. Let's give them a breather, hmmn?
MAC: We'll let the Brits go off-line 4 seconds early.
MAC: And we'll give our new Chinese overlords 4 extra seconds of rest before they have to go on-line.
MAC: Playing God here, Ginger. We've created 8 seconds that do not exist, anywhere but in this room.
MAC: 8 seconds, where no one is on-line but your little CD-Rom.
MAC: And when, eventually, everyone discovers what transaction XJ6 was really about.
GIN: China will think it happened before midnight. Britain will swear it happened after midnight.
MAC: They'll each be positive. The other guy. Did it.
MAC: Liable to be an ugly international
GIN: Britain off-line in 18 seconds. We're bulletproof.
MAC: Baby girl. Nothing. Is bulletproof. Ever.
MAC: Britain goes bye-bye in 6.
MAC: Feel like a nightcap?
GIN: The CD won't come out of the driver.
MAC: Relax, don't jam it. FUCKING THING!!
MAC: Don't panic, now, there's no rush.
GIN: We can't leave it IN THERE, it's got all our accounts, everything that can NAIL us to a goddam CROSS!!
MAC: Easy with that, there's no ru.
GIN: There's a rush.
GIN: LET'S MOVE IT, WHAT ARE YOU WAITING F. The disc. Is still in there.
MAC: The disc. Is still in there.
GIN: We can't help it, we.we've
GIN: What a guy.
MAC: Was wondering where to leave Time to go.
GIN: They don't know we're the bad guys.
MAC: Time they find out.
GIN: Okay. How do we get down?
MAC: Down? I never liked down.
MAC: You can do this.
GIN: Okay, now what? Shut up. You're on a 'need-to- know' basis.
GIN: Mac, I'm sorry.
GIN: Turns out, I'm a screw-up.
MAC: Well. Something to be said for being self-aware.
MAC: May I have the last grenade, dear. It's about to rain.
MAC: You see, banking democratic under China.
MAC: Well. No more glass ceiling.
MAC: How refreshing. The night air. I can't do this.
GIN: I can't do this.
MAC: You can. If I say so.
MAC: If you stay. You'll have to pay for the damage.
MAC: Now that split. Did we say
GIN: He turns back. She points to the copter. It's over here.
HEY!: He turns back. She points to the copter. It's over here.
MAC: Got the keys? I thought you could.hot-wire
GIN: I thought you could.hot-wire
MAC: They fix those things so you can't steal them.
MAC: These, they're not so worried.
MAC: Go grab that hook.
MAC: Let me rephrase that. and grab that hook. Or die.
MAC: This only works if you shut your eyes.
GIN: You're not gonna lower me over the side.
MAC: Of course not. Now close baby Suit yourself.
GIN: OH NOOOOOOOOOO.. Let go NOW!!
MAC: Let go NOW!!
MAC: She WHIPS around, GLARING death at his eyes.
MAC: And dumb luck. God, I hate you. Good. I hate you, too.
GIN: God, I hate you. Good. I hate you, too.
MAC: You ran your calls.
GIN: transfers. It's a miracle.
MAC: Why? The CD erased the trans- actions, all accounts seem in order. It looks like the thieves were stopped in time.
GIN: The Colonel says police have nothing. A man in black-tie, a blonde in a gown. The elevator guards saw faces, but no mug shots to ID. I think it's over.
MAC: Except it never is, really. Quite. Over.
GIN: Well, one hopes not. The Bristol, huh? In.Paris? You're not going back to Mr. Cruz, and the nine-to-five?
MAC: You're not going back to Mr. Cruz, and the nine-to-five?
GIN: Not hardly. I've arranged to be killed in a car crash. On Taipei. Amazing how little it costs.
MAC: Well. You want to watch those
GIN: I could arrange for two. In that You know, for a bitch. You can be awfully sweet.
MAC: You know, for a bitch. You can be awfully sweet.
GIN: Woman of mystery. What do you say? I like the Bristol, just fine. mean, it's not the Ritz.
MAC: You know, all night I've been wrestling with something.
GIN: Not the most flattering way to put it.
MAC: I've changed your travel plans.
GIN: Instead of taking the subway to the airport, you change at Jordan Station for Kowloon Tong. Got that?
MAC: Instead of taking the subway to the airport, you change at Jordan Station for Kowloon Tong. Got that?
MAC: Jordan is only 90 seconds up the line. Like a wire transfer, you're gone. Vanished.
MAC: In this bag are passports, tickets, papers. An amber wig, a good one. A dress you can slip on in five seconds.
MAC: You're on a tight connection to the Trans-Siberian Express, be in Europe in a week.
GIN: Mac, wh.
MAC: Shhh. You always talk too much. Time has come to return the favor. One last time.
MAC: Time has come to return the favor. One last time.
MAC: Tell you. What business. I'm actually in. My God. You're a cop. That's my girl. See, my profession was cover, too. A notorious thief has access to colleagues, their plans.
MAC: See, my profession was cover, too. A notorious thief has access to colleagues, their plans.
MAC: I've turned in.well, couple hundred. over forty years. Scotland Yard, Interpol, FBI.
MAC: Thought I might retire. After you.
GIN: And all the.microchips, the diamond machine.
MAC: Well, the chips were returned. The machine was just a box, did you actually think it was real?
GIN: I thought.everything was real. Stupid girl.
GIN: Those were have claimed entrapment. You had to wait. For mine.
GIN: The Oracle Bone.
MAC: Well, the State Department liked that one. They have more fish to fry with Beijing than Taiwan.
MAC: So they're taking credit for letting it go through. Tho I'm afraid your Colonel may be in for a career disappointment.
GIN: And the 5 billion.
MAC: I haven't told them.
MAC: I said you hadn't revealed the job. That it wouldn't take place until after the changeover.
MAC: Don't look, they're there.
GIN: And my tickets. In the shopping bag?
MAC: Well. Kept my options open. If I give you up, they don't matter, do they?
GIN: Had lots of crazy thoughts. One was retirement. With four billion dollars. After all, I know some places where life could be private.
MAC: Had lots of crazy thoughts. One was retirement. With four billion dollars. After all, I know some places where life could be private.
GIN: But you couldn't do that, huh?
GIN: Otherwise. They wouldn't be here.
MAC: Creature of habit. I suppose.
GIN: Lots. Of thoughts, you s.
MAC: Keep smiling. They won't move, until I raise my left arm.
MAC: I thought. Well, I've got the CD. I could contact the banks, reverse all the transactions.
MAC: .except maybe. Leave you with. oh, a hundred million, say. To tide you over.
MAC: Then, I thought, nah. Not my style.
MAC: I figured. What the hell?
MAC: Let her keep the lot.
MAC: No rush. The doors won't close for 60 seconds.
MAC: There's a pistol in the bag. Reach in slowly. Take it out fast. Point it at my temple.
MAC: You can do it. If I say you can.
MAC: Step onto the car, keep the pistol trained on my face. Seems I was wrong.
MAC: Seems I was wrong.
MAC: Entrapment. Is what robbers. Do to cops, huh?
MAC: Twenty seconds. Shoot me in the shoulder, it'll slow them down.
GIN: Oughta shoot you in the face.
MAC: Come on, you can do it, if I sa.
GIN: No way. Not anymore.
MAC: Ten seconds, hold on.
GIN: When do I see you?
MAC: Airport. Changing at Mongkok Station, we can cut her off.
MAC: She might lose the wig, be looking brunette or blonde, navy pants suit.
AGENT: I think Yaumatei changes for the airport, and it's closer.
