ERIN BROCKOVICH: A True Story Susannah Grant
ERIN: Even when she talks dirty, there's a heartland goodness to her voice. Like Kansas corn fields swaying in the breeze. As she grabs the ticket from the windshield, her sunglasses accidentally CLATTER to the ground.
ERIN: When she picks them up, a fingernail snags on the pavement.
ERIN: She tends to the nail as she opens her car door and gets in.
ED: Don't ask that on Mondays, Rosalind. Whatever passion he once had for the personal injury law that is his career has long since dissipated. He trundles off toward his office.
BRENDA: Tony Marvin.
ED: Oh, Jesus. Who's responsible for his pain and suffering this time?
BRENDA: His dry cleaners. You want him?
ED: What do you think? What's this? He grabs a gift-wrapped bottle off her desk, reads the card.
BRENDA: Tequila. From your drug dealer friend.
ED: Carlos isn't a friend; he's a client.
BRENDA: He's a low-life. Speaking of which, that's your nine o'clock in there. Ed peers into his office. It's a mess papers everywhere, unopened mail. Standing in the middle of the room is Erin, in a teensy, leopard-print mini-dress. As she jiggles a spike-heeled foot, everything about her shimmies gloriously. Except her head, which is held in place by a neck brace.
ED: ( to Brenda )
BRENDA: Erin Brockovich. Car accident. Not her fault, she says. And she looks like such an honest girl, don't you think?
ED: You shouldn't judge, Brenda.
BRENDA: Right. Lap-dancers are people too. As Ed heads into his office, Brenda picks up the phone.
BRENDA: I can't find him, Tony. We'll have to call you back.
ED: Erin hi. Sorry you had to wait. Here, sit down, sit down. He clears a stack of papers off a chair.
ERIN: Thanks a lot. I tell you, I never thought just standing would take it out of me, but ever since that shithead hit me, it feels like my whole body's put together wrong. Ed gives her a look of pro-forma sympathy.
ED: Jesus, you poor thing. Well, listen, you came to the right place. Whoever did this to you made one hell of a mistake, and you and me, we're gonna make him pay for it. He takes out a pad and paper, gets ready to write.
ED: Why don't you tell me what happened?
ERIN: I was pulling out real slow, and out of nowhere, his Jaguar comes racing around the corner like a bat outta hell . She glances at the defendant's table, where a DOCTOR sits nobly in surgical scrubs. His WIFE and two beautiful KIDS are behind him. A frigging Norman Rockwell painting.
ERIN: They took some bone from my hip and put it in my neck. I didn't have insurance, so I'm about seventeen thousand in debt right now.
ERIN: . couldn't take painkillers cause they made me too groggy to take care of my kids.
ERIN: . Matthew's six, Katie's four, and Beth's just nine months.
ERIN: . just wanna be a good mom, a nice person, a decent citizen. Just wanna take good care of my kids. You know?
ED: ( oh so moved )
DEFENDING LAWYER: Seventeen thousand in debt. Whew. Is your ex-husband helping out?
ERIN: Which one?
DEFENDING LAWYER: ( feigning shock )
ERIN: Yeah. There's two. Why? Erin looks over at the jury. The personification of conservative family values. Oh, shit.
ERIN: ( getting defensive )
DEFENDING LAWYER: ( sarcastic )
DEFENDING LAWYER: So. You must've been feeling pretty desperate that afternoon.
ERIN: ( pointed )
DEFENDING LAWYER: Broke, three kids, no job. A doctor in a Jaguar must've looked like a pretty good meal ticket. Erin sees jurors nodding almost imperceptibly in agreement. She's on a sinking ship.
ERIN: What? Hey
DEFENDING LAWYER: So you say.
ERIN: He came tearing around the corner, out of An ER doctor who spends his days saving lives was the one out of control
DEFENDING LAWYER: An ER doctor who spends his days saving lives was the one out of control
ERIN: ( erupting )
ERIN: Open and shut?
ED: If you hadn't used profanity
ERIN: Oh, please, it was long over by then. God damn, he made me look like some cheap
ED: I told you the questions might get a little Bullshit. You told me I'd get half a million dollars. You told me I'd be set. Ed notices her ranting is starting to draw attention.
ERIN: Bullshit. You told me I'd get half a million dollars. You told me I'd be set. Ed notices her ranting is starting to draw attention.
ED: Okay let's try and settle down here.
ERIN: Masry! I can't afford to settle down! I'm sorry, Erin.
ED: I'm sorry, Erin.
ERIN: Yeah? Well, fuck you. Sorry doesn't feed my Erin turns away from him and heads for the stairway.
MRS. MORALES: Hi, Erin! You're back so soon. How was it? She hands Erin the baby. It's BETH, Erin's 9-month old. Erin avoids the question by focusing on her baby.
ERIN: Hi, sweetie. Were you a good girl? Where are Matt and Katie?
MRS. MORALES: Outside with the sprinkler. So it's good? The truth is too depressing to share.
ERIN: It'll be fine, yeah.
MRS. MORALES: Ai, bueno. Because I didn't want to tell you before, with your worries
ERIN: MRS. MORALES
MRS. MORALES: My daughter, she's bought a big house with a room for me. I'm going to move in with her.
ERIN: You're moving away? When?
MRS. MORALES: Next week.
ERIN: ( stunned )
MRS. MORALES: I know. But it's good for me. Now I can help my daughter take care of my grandkids. And it's good for you, too. Now you have money, you can find a good babysitter, huh? Not the old lady next door. Oh, God. In Erin's arms, Beth starts to COUGH.
ERIN: Insult added to injury. She heads up to the house, dragging her shoe, wiping off the bug guts.
MATTHEW: I don't like this part, it's all crusty.
KATIE: I like the crust. Erin switches the plates.
ERIN: Put your napkins in your laps and eat up.
KATIE: How come you're not eating? Cause there isn't enough food.
ERIN: Mamma's gonna eat later. From her baby seat on the table, Beth COUGHS some more. Thick, sick-sounding coughs. Erin looks at her.
ERIN: Don't go getting sick on me, baby. Okay?
ERIN: It's gonna be okay, sweetheart. I promise. But her face doesn't look like she believes it.
ERIN: Hi, remember me? I was in yesterday. Bought a whole mess of stuff? Round about five?
ERIN: Oh, shoot, yeah, I guess that'd be tough. Well, listen, I meant to buy my baby here some medicine, and by the time I got home, I realized I'd bought the adult stuff by mistake. And now, wouldn't you know, I can't find the receipt. I was wondering could I maybe exchange it anyway .
ERIN: Just remember. No matter what your Mamma does, lying and stealing is real bad. I don't ever wanna hear you doing something like that . On the table beside her sit the classifieds. Row after row of want ads circled, then X-'d out in red. A WATER BUG crawls across the edge of the paper.
ERIN: . Cause there's no excuse for it, you hear me? No excuse at all.
ED: Damn it! She pops her head in.
BRENDA: He grabs a tissue, swabs his shirt, then kicks at the box.
ED: What the hell is this doing here?
BRENDA: It's those files you asked for.
ED: I didn't mean for you to leave them in the middle of the floor. Jesus. Look at me. What do I have this afternoon?
BRENDA: Nothing you can't show up for with a stain. As Ed checks his reflection in the glass wall of his office, he notices, on the other side: ERIN, standing in the middle of the secretaries' area, in a miniskirt and leather bustier, talking to MARIO, the firm's mentally challenged office boy. Mario heads away from her.
ED: What's she doing here?
BRENDA: Ed goes to his office door and waves Mario over.
ED: Hey Mario what's she doing here?
MARIO: She works here. Ed looks back at her what the hell?
ED: Erin! How's it going? Up close, the wear and tear of worry show on her face.
ERIN: You never called me back. I left messages.
ED: You did? Wow, sorry about that. Listen, Mario's a little not so bright. He seems to think that you said
ERIN: There's two things I can't stand, Mr. Masry. Being ignored, and being lied to. You did Glances skitter between the secretaries get a load of this. Ed lowers his voice.
ED: I never lied. I may have miscalculated that happens sometimes, but
ERIN: You said things would be fine, and they're I'm sorry about that. Really. But
ED: I'm sorry about that. Really. But
ERIN: I don't need pity. I need a paycheck. And I've looked, but when you've spent the last six years raising babies, it's real hard to convince someone to give you a job that pays worth a damn. So I figure, since you're the one who said I was gonna be okay, you should be the one to hire me. Ed sees everyone watching him, listening.
ED: I'd love to help, Erin, but I'm sorry, I have a full staff right now, so He starts to escort her out, but she stays put.
ERIN: Bullshit. If you had a full staff, you'd have time to return your damn phone calls. She's backing him into a corner here. He shifts gears.
ED: Okay, look. If you really want to apply for a job here, you can do it the way everyone else does. Send in a rÈsumÈ, make an
ERIN: someone you made promises to that you didn't deliver on. I trusted you. With my kids' well-being. Now, I'm smart, and I'm hard- working, and I'll do anything. But if you think I'm leaving here without a job, you got another thing coming. Ed glances around the room. Not a whole lot of options here. He looks back at Erin.
ED: No benefits.
ANNA: . what we do in here is keep track of all the case files. That way, at any time, we can find out a case's status where it is in the office, stuff like that. We file 'em all here, alphabetically
ERIN: Oh, hell. I'm dyslexic.
ANNA: That's a joke, right? Erin shakes her head, no. Great, thinks Anna.
JANE: Just last week, he told my sister we weren't What's your sister look like?
BRENDA: What's your sister look like?
ERIN: Mr. Masry? He turns, sees her.
ED: I was wondering could you tell me who I'd talk to about maybe getting an advance on my paycheck? Just for the weekend.
ERIN: I was wondering could you tell me who I'd talk to about maybe getting an advance on my paycheck? Just for the weekend.
ED: Jane's the office manager. She handles payroll and petty cash. But she leaves early on Fridays.
ERIN: Oh. Okay. That's okay. Ed looks at her a moment, sees that it's far from okay.
ED: Oh, for Christ's sake . He takes out his wallet, looks in.
ED: All I have is hundreds.
ERIN: I don't wanna take your money, Mr. Masry.
ED: Bullshit, you don't. He slaps a hundred in her hand and leaves. When he's gone, she looks at the bill her life raft and gives it a great big kiss.
KATIE: Mommy, can I get a flower?
ERIN: Sweetheart, you can get a whole big bunch.
ERIN: But of course he can't hear her. She walks over to him, stands right in his line of vision.
ERIN: He sees her and kills the engine. Everything about GEORGE HALABY is tough his denim, his leather, his bike, his long hair. Everything but his eyes, which twinkle like Santa's.
HEY!: He sees her and kills the engine. Everything about GEORGE HALABY is tough his denim, his leather, his bike, his long hair. Everything but his eyes, which twinkle like Santa's.
GEORGE: Well, hello to you, darlin'.
ERIN: What the hell do you think you're doing, making all that Goddamn noise?
GEORGE: Just introducing myself to the neighbors.
ERIN: Well, I'm the neighbors. There, now we're introduced, so you can shut the fuck up. The guys on the porch chuckle. Erin turns and starts back to her house. George hops off his bike and follows her.
GEORGE: Ooh, now, see, if I'da known there was a beautiful woman next door, I'da done this different. Let's start over. My name's George. What's yours?
ERIN: Just think of me as the person next door who likes it quiet, and we'll get along fine.
GEORGE: Now, don't be like that. Tell you what. How about if I take you out on a date to apologize for my rudeness? Erin shakes her head in disbelief and keeps walking.
GEORGE: Come on. Gimme your number, I'll call you up proper and ask you out and everything. She stops at her porch, turns to him.
ERIN: You want my number?
GEORGE: I do.
ERIN: Which number do you want, George?
GEORGE: You got more than one?
ERIN: Shit, yeah. I got numbers coming out of my ears. Like, for instance, ten.
GEORGE: Sure. That's one of my numbers. It's how many months old my little girl is.
ERIN: Sure. That's one of my numbers. It's how many months old my little girl is.
GEORGE: You got a little girl?
ERIN: Yeah. Sexy, huh? And here's another: five. That's how old my other daughter is. Seven is my son's age. Two is how many times I been married and divorced. You getting all this? 16 is the number of dollars in my bank account. 454-3943 is my phone number. And with all the other numbers I gave you, I'm guessing zero is the number of times you're gonna call it. She turns and heads inside. He calls out after her:
GEORGE: How the hell do you know your bank balance right off the top of your head like that? See, that impresses me.
ERIN: Y'all got something you wanna discuss? The women go back to stirring their coffees. Erin walks on.
ED: Damn it!
BRENDA!: INT. MASRY & VITITOE, FILE ROOM - DAY Erin is alone, filing as she talks on the phone.
ERIN: How long's she been crying like that? . Well, she's got that tooth coming in Ed appears in the door, carrying the box of files.
ERIN: Give her a cold washcloth to suck on I gotta go there's a clean one in that bag I'll check back in a bit. Sorry. My kid
ED: Where's Anna?
ERIN: Out to lunch with the girls.
ED: Oh. Huh. Well, look, I got this file I need valued. Real estate thing. A lady has some property next to a PG&E plant that PG&E wants to buy. I need to know what to ask for it. He plunks the box of files on her desk. She stares at it, with no idea of how to go about that.
ERIN: Oh. Okay. He sees her staring at the box.
ED: You do know how to do that, don't you?
ERIN: Yeah. I got it. No problem.
ED: Ed heads out, but pauses before leaving.
ED: You're a girl.
ERIN: Excuse me?
ED: How come you're not at lunch with the girls? You're a girl.
ERIN: I guess I'm not the right kind.
ERIN: Anna? With this real-estate valuing stuff - - could you remind me, cause I'm a little confused about how exactly we do that.
ANNA: ( exasperated )
ERIN: As she wipes the bug guts off the bottom of her shoe:
ERIN: C'mon. I bought 'em for you, to make up for that night.
GEORGE: C'mon. I bought 'em for you, to make up for that night.
ERIN: Return 'em. Maybe you'll get your money He gets up and follows her to her house.
GEORGE: Now, why're you giving me such a hard time? I'm just trying to be a good neighbor. Erin turns to him. The kids are waiting at the door.
ERIN: I had a good neighbor, George. She was 60 and Mexican and she watched my kids for free. Something tells me you're not gonna be able to measure up to that.
GEORGE: You need help with your kids? I could probably do that. George reaches out and grabs the box from under her arm.
ERIN: I'm not gonna leave my kids with you.
GEORGE: Why not?
ERIN: Cause I don't even know you.
GEORGE: Yeah, and whose fault is that? He's got a point there. After a beat:
GEORGE: What, you got so many friends in this world, you don't have use for one more?
KATIE: What's that stand for?
GEORGE: That's for Harley Davidson. The best damn motorcycle ever made. Erin comes in from the kitchen.
ERIN: And if I catch either of you anywhere near one, I'll knock you silly. Go on to bed, now I'll come tuck you in in a minute. They get up .
GEORGE: . and head into bed. George starts cleaning up the cards.
GEORGE: Great kids. Erin bends down to help him.
ERIN: Yeah. I'm probably ruining them.
GEORGE: I'm never here. I gotta leave 'em with this weird sitter all afternoon who costs a fortune and smells like chicken fat.
ERIN: I'm never here. I gotta leave 'em with this weird sitter all afternoon who costs a fortune and smells like chicken fat.
GEORGE: I was serious before, you know. If you need someone to keep an eye on them after school or something I don't have a job now, so I'm around in the afternoons.
ERIN: Great. Another deadbeat.
GEORGE: I'm not a deadbeat. I work when I need to.
ERIN: Yeah? And what do you do the rest of the time, live off your trust fund?
GEORGE: I do construction, which pays real good. And I make it last by living cheap.
ERIN: ( with a little laugh )
GEORGE: Are you this hard on everyone who tries to help you?
ERIN: It's been a while. Maybe I'm just out of Then lemme remind you, the polite thing is to say, thank you, that's a real nice offer, I don't mind taking you up on it.
GEORGE: Then lemme remind you, the polite thing is to say, thank you, that's a real nice offer, I don't mind taking you up on it.
ERIN: Why in the hell would you want to watch my Cause I like kids. I like hanging out with She starts cleaning up the cards.
GEORGE: Cause I like kids. I like hanging out with She starts cleaning up the cards.
ERIN: She starts cleaning up the cards.
GEORGE: I do. I like how they keep it all simple, you know? They don't get all complicated about life, like grown-ups do. A bicycle and an ice cream cone boom, done, they're Erin thinks about the offer.
ERIN: You're around every afternoon?
GEORGE: Yup. Usually working on my bike. No big deal. If it doesn't work out, you can send 'em back to the chicken fat lady. Tempting. Erin looks him over.
ERIN: This isn't gonna get you laid, you know.
GEORGE: ( with a laugh )
ERIN: It was in this real estate file I'm valuing. And see, I know they're the medical records from the people selling the house but it talks about things like lymphocytes and T8 suppressers. Erin sees Ed pass behind Jane. She lowers her voice, so he won't see her asking for help.
ERIN: I mean, it's not a problem or anything, but I'm just a little unclear on what those things are. I thought maybe you'd know.
JANE: What do I look like, Erin? A library? And Jane walks away with her coffee.
ERIN: Dr. Paulsen?
PAULSEN: Hi, I'm Erin Brockovich. I was just over in the library there, asking a mess of questions about I guess they call it epidemiology? and the fella there told me to find you, cause you know all about it.
ERIN: Hi, I'm Erin Brockovich. I was just over in the library there, asking a mess of questions about I guess they call it epidemiology? and the fella there told me to find you, cause you know all about it.
PAULSEN: ( suspicious )
ERIN: Who's Baxter?
PAULSEN: He did, didn't he? BAXTER, another scientist, leans out of a door down the hall.
BAXTER: Baxter and Erin look at each other. No recognition, of course. Paulsen is immediately embarrassed.
PAULSEN: Oh. Oh.
ERIN: No one put me up to anything. I was just hoping I could ask you a couple questions.
PAULSEN: ( mortified )
PAULSEN: Well, look, there isn't a ton of information here, but from what there is, I'd say that these two people here what are their names? Shanna and Ashley?
ERIN: Right, I guess those are the kids
PAULSEN: They've both got some immune system problem. Can't say what from, whether it's viral or genetic or what, but something's wrong. And these guys Donna and Peter
ERIN: Their parents, I'm pretty sure.
PAULSEN: Well, from what this stuff says, I'd say they both have some form of cancer. Wow. That's more serious than Erin was expecting.
ERIN: Hi. Donna Irving?
DONNA: I'm Erin Brockovich, from Masry
ERIN: I'm Erin Brockovich, from Masry
DONNA: ( a little surprised )
ERIN: Hell, no. I hate lawyers. I just work for them. You got a minute?
ERIN: This is a real nice place you got here.
DONNA: I added air conditioning, put in the pool, made all those pillows by hand .
ERIN: Yeah? I should learn to do stuff like that. They make the place feel real homey. Donna corrects the positioning on a couple of pillows.
DONNA: Thank you. I think so too. That's why I'm being such a stickler on this house price thing. I don't mean to be a pain in PG&E's backside, especially after all they've done for Hinkley, but I look around here and I think, if they want this place, they're gonna have to pay for it. And I don't just mean pay for the house; I'd like them to pay me for the trouble of starting over.
ERIN: Cause first you gotta move, then there's decorating, and if the windows aren't the same size, you know you're making all new curtains. Honest to God, I don't know if I have the energy. You know, I've been sick. Me and Peter both have.
DONNA: Cause first you gotta move, then there's decorating, and if the windows aren't the same size, you know you're making all new curtains. Honest to God, I don't know if I have the energy. You know, I've been sick. Me and Peter both have.
ERIN: Yeah, I'm real glad you brought that up. I was going through your file here, and I ran into these medical records. They kinda surprised me This would be the perfect opportunity for many to get self- pitying. But not Donna. Life's handed her a shitload of lemons, and darned if she hasn't made a shitload of lemonade.
DONNA: I know. They're more than a bit unusual. See, two years ago, Pete got Hodgkin's disease. That's a kind of cancer
ERIN: Yeah, I'm real sorry to hear that.
DONNA: Thank you. It's in remission now, thank the Lord, but you never know. And then while that's going on, I end up having to have a hysterectomy. Plus a whole mess of lumps removed from my breasts. All benign so far, but still, no matter how positive you stay, an operation can still take it out of you.
ERIN: I'll say. Holy moley.
DONNA: So the whole idea of selling the house don't get me wrong, I'd be glad to move to some better place, but if they aren't gonna pay us properly, I just don't see the point.
ERIN: Yeah, I can see that. I guess the only thing that confused me is - - not that your medical problems aren't important, but how come the files about them are in with all the real estate stuff? Donna tops off their iced teas.
DONNA: Are you kidding? With how our lives are, if I start subdividing files, I'll be sunk. I just kept all PG&E correspondence in one Right, but I'm sorry, I don't see why you were corresponding with PG&E about it in the first place.
ERIN: Right, but I'm sorry, I don't see why you were corresponding with PG&E about it in the first place.
DONNA: Well, they paid for the doctor's visit.
ERIN: They did?
DONNA: You bet. Paid for a check-up for the whole family. And not like with insurance where you pay, then wait a year to be reimbursed, either. They just took care of it. Just like that. We never even saw a bill.
ERIN: Wow. Why would they do that?
DONNA: Cause of the chromium.
ERIN: The what?
DONNA: The chromium. Well, that's what kicked this whole thing off.
ERIN: What's chromium?
DONNA: It's a chemical they used over at that compressor station up the road there.
ERIN: Well, hell, maybe that's why you all have been so sick
DONNA: I thought the same thing, right off the bat. That's why we went to see the doctor. But hunh-uh. Turns out one's got nothing to do with the other. She rifles through the box.
DONNA: This is the info they gave us. You'll see if you look through it, chromium's good for you. When I saw what they charged for it at the health-food stores, I about fainted. She hands Erin a printed fact sheet. Erin scans it.
ERIN: Seems like an awful big coincidence your water being messed with and you being so Not around here. This is a rough part of the world. Hard times, not a lot of money, not a lot of luck. It's a challenge, staying healthy in a town like this. Heck, even our dogs up and die.
DONNA: Not around here. This is a rough part of the world. Hard times, not a lot of money, not a lot of luck. It's a challenge, staying healthy in a town like this. Heck, even our dogs up and die.
ERIN: What're you doing?
GEORGE: Better safe than sorry. She shakes her head, amused by his persistence.
ERIN: You want some coffee, George?
GEORGE: I'm gonna put a dead bolt on your front door, too. This isn't exactly the safest neighborhood in the world, you know.
ERIN: Thanks for reminding me.
GEORGE: I guess we get what we pay for, huh? Erin pours him some coffee, hands it to him.
ERIN: You think it could make you sick, living in a place like this?
GEORGE: What do you mean? George settles in, helps himself to sugar.
ERIN: I was talking to this lady she and her husband both got cancer, and she thinks it's cause they live in a bad neighborhood. You think that's possible? That living in a bad neighborhood could give you cancer? George laughs a little at the thought.
GEORGE: Man, I hope not. You got enough damn But Erin's still mulling it over.
ERIN: Hi, y'all how you doing today?
MAN 1: Hangin' in, baby. How about yourself?
ERIN: I'm okay, I'm just fine. I was wondering could I maybe ask you a couple questions? She settles down on the stoop with them for a chat.
ERIN: . and when I realized our area's just as bad as Hinkley, I thought maybe my neighbors are all sick too. So I went and asked.
PAULSEN: ( surprised )
ERIN: Uh-huh. Spent the last few days knocking on doors. And you know what? They're not. I mean, they got problems, but none of this cancer stuff. And their pets are fine. So I don't know I just can't shake the feeling that it wasn't no multivitamin they put in the water.
PAULSEN: Well, if you're talking about contamination, you're getting out of my area of expertise. Let me give you the name of a toxicologist friend of mine over at USC. Paulsen reaches for a notepad, scrawls on it.
PAULSEN: I gotta say, Erin first time I saw you, I did not peg you as the kind to go off and conduct her own epidemiological study.
ERIN: Don't go telling anyone. It'll ruin my EXT. USC CAMPUS - DAY Erin towers over DAVID FRANKEL as she walks across campus with him. He's the grittier variety of scientist: Patagonia, Birkenstocks, bushy beard. He's as dry as dust, and as much as Dr. Paulsen responded to Erin, Frankel barely notices her.
FRANKEL: What kind of chromium is it?
ERIN: There's more than one kind?
FRANKEL: Yes. There's straight-up chromium does all kinds of good things for the body. There's chrom 3, which is fairly benign, and then there's chrom 6, hexavalent chromium, which, depending on the amounts, can be very Harmful, like how? What would you get?
ERIN: Harmful, like how? What would you get?
FRANKEL: With repeated exposure to toxic levels God, anything, really respiratory disease, liver failure, heart failure, reproductive failure, chronic headaches, bone or organ deterioration plus, of course, any type of cancer. He rattles it off coolly. Just facts. Erin's stunned.
ERIN: So that stuff it kills people.
FRANKEL: Oh, yeah. Definitely. Highly toxic, highly carcinogenic. Bad, bad stuff.
ERIN: Well, how do I find out what kind of chromium is up in Hinkley?
FRANKEL: Have you been to the water board?
ERIN: Hunh-uh. What's that?
FRANKEL: Every county has one. They keep records of anything water-related within their jurisdiction. You should be able to find something there.
ERIN: County water board. All righty, thanks.
FRANKEL: Good luck. Oh I wouldn't advertise what you're looking for if I were you . His line continues over:
ERIN: Whew! God Ross looks up. It's like the girl from the ad walked right off the page. He jumps up, to help her with the door.
ROSS: Oh, hey lemme give you a hand there.
ERIN: Thank you very much. Aren't you a gentleman? Mr. .
ROSS: Ross. Real pleased to meet you. I'm Erin. She smiles. He can't believe his luck.
ERIN: Ross. Real pleased to meet you. I'm Erin. She smiles. He can't believe his luck.
ROSS: Erin. Cool. What can I do for you, Erin?
ERIN: Well, believe it or not, I am on the prowl for some water records.
ROSS: ( with a laugh )
ERIN: ( laughing along )
ROSS: You just tell me what you want to look at and I'll be glad to dig 'em out for you.
ERIN: I wish I knew. It's for my boss. He's fighting his water bill, and he wants me to find all manner of bills from all kinds of places. The easiest thing would probably be if I just squeezed back there with you and poked around myself. Would that be okay?
ROSS: Heck, yeah. Come on back. Just gonna need you to sign in here He hands her a pen. He reads over her shoulder as she signs her name Erin Pattee Brockovich.
ROSS: Pattee? That your middle name?
ERIN: Nope. Maiden.
ROSS: ( disappointed )
ERIN: Not anymore. She smiles and winks at him, then goes around the counter with him and looks at the stacks and stacks of files.
ERIN: Well. Here goes nothing. She heads down an aisle, reading the spines of the files. They're all town names Barstow, Victorville, Oro Grande, Helendale in no particular order. Finally, Erin spots one that says Hinkley. She pulls it down.
MATT: Our mom gives us sandwiches on Fridays.
GEORGE: That's a sandwich.
KATIE: No, it's not!
GEORGE: Sure it is. Here, I'll show you. He picks up Matt's chicken, tears it in two .
GEORGE: Most people think a sandwich's gotta have bread on the outside. Not true. Chicken is a perfectly good outside for a sandwich. . then places the broccoli neatly between the halves.
GEORGE: Katie and Matthew look at it, then up at George, and smile. This guy just might be all right, after all.
ERIN: Where's my stuff? Anna looks up.
ANNA: Where've you been?
ERIN: What the fuck did you do with my stuff?
ANNA: Don't use language with me But Erin's out the door before Anna can finish her sentence.
ERIN: Someone stole my stuff.
JANE: Nice to see you, Erin. We've missed you.
ERIN: I had photos of my kids, plus a mug Jane reaches under her desk for a box, looks through it.
JANE: toothbrush, toothpaste, and a pair of hose. Here.
ERIN: What's going on?
JANE: There may be jobs where you can disappear for days at a time, but this isn't one of them. Here, if you don't do the work, you don't get to stay. She hands her the box. Erin doesn't take it.
ERIN: been doing. Ask Mr. Masry. He knows.
ERIN: You said to fire me? He sets down the receiver.
ED: Erin, you've been gone for a week.
ERIN: I left a message. I've been dealing with that real estate thing. I was gonna write up a whole damn report and
ED: That's not how we work here. You don't just leave a message and take off. Jane follows her in, still carrying the box of stuff.
ERIN: What am I supposed to do, check in every two Yes. It's called accountability.
JANE: Yes. It's called accountability.
ERIN: I am not talking to you, bitch.
JANE: Okay, enough Now, look, Erin this incident aside, I don't think this is the right place for you. So what I'm gonna do is make a few calls on your behalf. Find you something else, okay?
ED: Okay, enough Now, look, Erin this incident aside, I don't think this is the right place for you. So what I'm gonna do is make a few calls on your behalf. Find you something else, okay?
ERIN: Don't bother. She turns to Jane, takes her box, and heads out.
ED: Come on, I'm trying to help here.
ERIN: Bullshit. You're trying to feel less guilty about firing someone with three kids to feed. Fuck if I'll help you do that. And she leaves.
ERIN: I don't suppose any one of you cunts could open the fucking door for me.
MAILMAN: Here ya go, Miz Brockovich. Erin looks at the top of the stack. It's the electric bill.
ERIN: What are you doing here?
GEORGE: Fixing a leak under your sink. She heads into the kitchen, weary and irritated.
ERIN: I didn't ask you to do that. Damn it, George, I don't ask you to do things like INT. ERIN'S HOUSE, KITCHEN - DAY Erin enters, sees all the cleaning stuff from under the sink is spread around the kitchen floor. A tool box lies open.
ERIN: I'm gonna clean it up. Erin gets down on her knees and starts putting things away.
GEORGE: I'm gonna clean it up. Erin gets down on her knees and starts putting things away.
GEORGE: Relax, Erin, I'll do it I'm not Before he can finish, a huge WATER BUG runs onto Erin's hand.
ERIN: She jumps and brushes it off.
GEORGE: Yeah you had a whole family of those things hanging out back there. She takes off her shoe and smacks at the bug, missing it.
ERIN: Damn it The bug skitters away from her, along the floorboard. Erin chases it, smacking at it repeatedly, missing it every time.
GEORGE: Don't worry about it, I'll get it later. But Erin keeps after it, corralling all her frustrations into killing that one bug.
ERIN: Come here, you little motherfucker The bug crawls up onto the table, zipping behind the salt, the pepper, the napkin holder. Erin keeps after it, BANGING the table harder and harder with each SMACK of her shoe.
GEORGE: Hey, whoa relax
ERIN: As Erin stands there staring at the wall, her breath starts to come heavily those deep breaths that precede tears. She slowly slides down into a chair, defeat overcoming her.
ERIN: ( almost a whisper )
ERIN: What kind of person lives like this? Huh? What kind of person lets her kids run around in a house crawling with bugs the size of It's a simple thing. Everybody gets them. All we gotta do is call an exterminator.
GEORGE: It's a simple thing. Everybody gets them. All we gotta do is call an exterminator.
ERIN: one. God, I can't even afford my phone. I got fired.
GEORGE: What? But you been working so hard
ERIN: Doesn't matter. Doesn't make one bit of Oh God, George, how'd this happen to me? How'd I end up so . so nothing?
GEORGE: You're not nothing, Erin.
ERIN: Well, I'm sure as hell not what I thought I was gonna be. I was supposed to have one of those great lives, with everything all laid- out and perfect. I mean, hell I was Miss Wichita, for God's sakes. Did I tell you that? You live next door to a real live beauty queen. I still got the tiara. I kept it cause I thought it meant something. I thought it meant I was gonna do something great with my life. I thought it proved I was gonna grow up to be someone.
GEORGE: You are someone.
ERIN: No I'm not. Look at me. I'm not.
GEORGE: You're someone to me. You're someone real special to me.
ERIN: I'm no good, George. I make people But he kisses her anyway. And for the first time in so long, she feels like something other than a failure. He pulls her into him, and she lets herself be pulled.
GEORGE: Man. Even your earlobes are beautiful.
ERIN: Don't be too nice to me, okay? It makes me INT. MASRY & VITITOE, ED'S OFFICE - DAY Ed is at his desk. The PHONE RINGS. And RINGS. And RINGS.
ED: ( no answer )
BRENDA!: Nothing. Ed growls in frustration, then gets the phone.
ED: Yeah, Ed Masry here . She doesn't work here anymore. Who's this?
ERIN: Come on, baby. Maybe that's Ed McMahon.
ERIN: What are you doing here?
ED: I got an interesting call this afternoon. It was from a Dr. Frankel.
ERIN: Oh, yeah?
ED: He wanted you to know the legal limit for hexavalent chromium, is .05 parts per million. And that at the rate you mentioned, .58, it could be responsible for the cancers in that family you asked about. The Irvings.
ERIN: Well, that was nice of him. Isn't it funny how some people go out of their way to help people and others just give 'em the ax?
ED: Look, I'm sorry. You were gone. I just assumed you were off having fun.
ERIN: Now, why in the hell would you assume that?
ED: I don't know. Maybe cause you look like someone who has a lot of fun.
ERIN: Boy, are you ever a shitty judge of people.
ED: So what's the story on this thing? This cancer stuff?
ERIN: You wanna know, you gotta hire me back. I got a lot of bills to pay.
ED: INT. ERIN'S HOUSE, LIVING ROOM - LATER Erin has let Ed in. They're sitting.
ED: But, PG
ERIN: They told her something, but it can't have been too specific, cause I talked to her, and she sure didn't think her water was bad.
ED: So what made you think it was?
ERIN: It doesn't take a genius to look at those medical records and think something's wrong.
ED: What medical records?
ERIN: The ones in the box of files. The box of files? The one from your office?
ED: I didn't see any medical records in there.
ERIN: Boy, you musta really fine-tooth-combed it then, huh? And you fired me. Jesus.
ED: That document you found, the one that says it was the bad chromium you didn't happen to make a copy did you?
ERIN: Course I did.
ED: Lemme see it, will you? Before getting it for him, she looks at him, weighs her odds.
ERIN: I want a raise. And benefits. Including Look, Erin, this is not the way I do business, this extortion nonsense.
ED: Look, Erin, this is not the way I do business, this extortion nonsense.
ED: Okay. A 5% raise, and
ERIN: ( off his look )
ED: A ten percent raise and benefits. But that's it. I'm drawing the line. She goes to her box of stuff from the office and digs out the document for him. He scans it.
ED: This is the only thing you found?
ERIN: So far. But that place is a pig sty. I wouldn't be surprised if there's more.
ED: Find out.
ERIN: There's no way a son of mine hates Funky Town. It's impossible.
MATTHEW: Well I hate it.
KATIE: I hate it too. I hate this trip.
ERIN: Oh, come on, where's your sense of adventure? We're going someplace you never been before.
KATIE: I'm gonna hate it.
MATTHEW: Me too. She glances at them, frowns a little.
ERIN: You know what I'm realizing for the first time? You kids are a couple of downers. I mean, you are the real thing a couple of honest-to-God depresso-types. Who in the heck raised you, anyway? Some kind of moron?
KATIE: Yeah. A real moron.
ERIN: Some kind of half-wit, no-good, big-haired, bimbo, I bet.
MATTHEW: ( also smiling )
ERIN: Thank God we got you away from her, huh? By now they're all smiling. Funky Town plays on.
ERIN: Stay out of the road. I'll be right back. She wanders up the drive, onto PG&E property, moving around the plant, taking pictures of it from every possible angle. As she wanders over a big, flat, dry field to the side of the plant, she glances over her shoulder to check on her kids and notices the trail she made in the dirt has a greenish hue. She looks at the dirt right her feet. Kicks the ground. Below the surface, the dirt turns from brown to green. Erin notes this, then looks back at her kids playing in the dirt. Worry comes over her face. She heads back to them.
ERIN: We'll go eat in a minute. Settle down. Whining, fussing. Ross goes over to her.
ROSS: You know what, Erin? I got nothing but time here. Why don't you let me do that for you, and you can get your kids some dinner.
ERIN: Ross you are an absolute angel. She hands Ross the STACK OF DOCUMENTS.
ED: Fax these to this number, okay?
BRENDA: All of 'em?
ED: All of them. He continues into his office and closes the door.
DONNA: An on-site monitoring well? That means
ERIN: It was right up on the PG And you say this stuff, this hexavalent chromium it's poisonous?
DONNA: And you say this stuff, this hexavalent chromium it's poisonous?
ERIN: Well then it's gotta be a different than what's in our water, cause ours is okay. The guys from PG&E told me. They sat right in the kitchen and said it was fine.
DONNA: Well then it's gotta be a different than what's in our water, cause ours is okay. The guys from PG&E told me. They sat right in the kitchen and said it was fine.
ERIN: I know. But the toxicologist I been talking to? He gave me a list of problems that can come from hexavalent chromium exposure. And everything you all have is on that list. Donna resists this idea hard.
DONNA: No. Hunh-uh, see, that's not what the doctor said. He said one's got absolutely nothing to do with the other.
ERIN: Right, but didn't you say he was paid by
PG&E?: Donna sits quietly, trying to make sense of this. The only sound is the LAUGHING and SPLASHING from the pool out back. Then, gradually, Donna realizes what it is she's hearing her kids playing in toxic water. She jumps up .
DONNA: ASHLEY! SHANNA! . and runs out to the pool. Erin follows her.
DONNA: OUT OF THE POOL! BOTH OF YOU, OUT OF THE How come?
SHANNA: How come?
DONNA: CAUSE I SAID SO, THAT'S WHY, NOW GET OUT! OUT! NOW!!! Erin watches compassionately as Donna flails to get her kids out of the contaminated water.
BRENDA: What's she doing here?
JANE: He hired her back. With a raise.
BRENDA: Well, let's see. It's not cause she's smart, and it's not cause she's professional. That leaves . Brenda's stunned. Takes a beat. Makes assumptions.
JANE: Well, let's see. It's not cause she's smart, and it's not cause she's professional. That leaves . Brenda's stunned. Takes a beat. Makes assumptions.
BRENDA: And dumb old me thought working hard and being loyal was the way to get ahead.
ED: I'm telling you, the minute Brenda sent the fax I'm talking the second she pressed that send button PG&E claims department is on the phone to me, scheduling a meeting.
ERIN: So you think we got 'em scared?
ED: It sure as hell sounded like they were sitting up and taking notice. Brenda pops her head in, ignores Erin.
BRENDA: David Baum from PG
ERIN: Nice to see you again, too, Brenda. Brenda leaves without acknowledging Erin.
ERIN: Not to question your judgment or anything, Mr. Masry, but that doesn't exactly look like sitting up and taking notice to me.
BAUM: . in the interest of putting this whole thing to rest, PG&E is willing to offer the Irvings 250,000 dollars for their home. Ed laughs a little in disbelief.
ED: In terms of land value out in Hinkley, Mr. Masry, we feel it's a more than fair price.
BAUM: In terms of land value out in Hinkley, Mr. Masry, we feel it's a more than fair price.
ED: What about in terms of medical expenses? 250,000 doesn't come close to what this family's gonna have to spend on doctors.
BAUM: I understand they've had a bad run of luck, health-wise, and they have my sympathies. But that's not PG&E's fault.
ED: You're kidding, right? Look at these readings for Christ's sake. PG&E's own technicians documented toxic levels of hexavalent chromium in those test wells, on numerous occasions. Ed shoves them across the table. Baum doesn't look at them.
ED: Everything the Irvings have had is a proven reaction to exposure to hexavalent chromium. They've had . He stalls a moment. Erin jumps in.
ERIN: breast cysts, uterine cancer, Hodgkin's disease, immune deficiencies, asthma, chronic nosebleeds. Despite their persuasiveness, Baum parrots what is obviously the party line:
BAUM: A million things could have caused those problems. Poor diet, bad genes, irresponsible lifestyle. Our offer is final and more than fair.
ED: Wait a minute I thought we were negotiating here.
BAUM: 250,000 is all I'm authorized to offer. Ed looks across at this pissant little kid.
ED: ( to himself ) ( he stands, to leave )
BAUM: Mr. Masry, before you go off on some crusade, you might want to remember who it is you're dealing with here. PG&E is a 28- billion dollar corporation.
ED: ( containing his anger )
ERIN: At least they made an offer.
ED: That wasn't an offer. A million would've been an offer. When they send the God damn mail clerk down to jerk me off, waste my time, it's a fuck you.
ERIN: I don't get why they'd do that.
ED: Because they can. You heard that kid they have 28 billion dollars at their disposal. They can afford to waste all the time in the world.
ERIN: And you can't?
ED: What, you think I'm made of money? Behind them, Baum steps out of the conference room.
BAUM: Hey, you know where I can get a cab? My plane leaves Burbank in forty-five minutes. Ed turns and looks at him. He gets a tiny smile.
ED: Tell you what, why don't you go on over to reception, tell them I said Mario should take you to the airport.
BAUM: Hey, excellent. Thanks. Baum heads out to the reception area.
ERIN: Mr. Masry, Mario gets lost going to the bathroom. They'll be driving around the valley for hours.
ED: ( gleeful )
ERIN: Well I'll be God damned.
ROSALIND: You've been reading for hours.
ERIN: I'm a slow reader, on account of the fact that I look at the word "dog" and see "god".
ROSALIND: Hey, just so long as you see Him. Rosalind turns on Erin's desk lamp and heads out. Outside the big glass office doors, Rosalind stops to talk to a lost-looking COUPLE IN THEIR MID-30's. These are MANDY and TOM BROWN. He's a security guard uniform, with an envelope under his arm. Rosalind points to Erin. The Browns enter the office and approach her.
MANDY: Excuse me, are you Erin Brockovich?
ERIN: Yeah. Who are you?
TOM: I'm Tom Brown. This is my wife Mandy. We used to live across the street from the Irvings. PG&E bought our house last year.
TOM: It's called wry neck. It's when they're born without any muscles in the neck. WIDEN to see Erin looking at them with Tom and Mandy.
ERIN: Wow. How many were born like this?
TOM: Twelve, maybe thirteen.
MANDY: When Donna told us about you, and what you told her about the chromium, we figured that might have something to do with this, too.
ERIN: It sure could, yeah. Thanks a lot. She tucks them into a file, as if that's it.
MANDY: There's something else, too.
ERIN: Well. Mandy here's had nine miscarriages.
TOM: Well. Mandy here's had nine miscarriages.
ERIN: Are you kidding? My God
MANDY: I know. It's an awful lot.
ERIN: I'm surprised Donna didn't say anything.
TOM: She doesn't know. No one does. It's not something you want to talk about, you know?
MANDY: I figured it musta been something I did, like when I smoked marijuana, maybe. Or took birth control pills. But then Donna told me you thought this chromium might be to blame for her problems, so I figured .
ERIN: Hey. You guys still awake? CLOSE ON MATT AND KATIE. They're awake and pissed.
ERIN: Come on, now. No faking. George told me he just shut out the light a few seconds ago. They still don't answer. She comes in and sits on a bed.
ERIN: Look, I know you're mad. But the way this job is, things come up at the last minute, real important things, and I gotta deal with them. Now I don't like me missing dinner any more than you do, but we're all gonna have to get used to it, cause the fact is, it's gonna happen sometimes.
KATIE: It happens all the time.
ERIN: That's not true; we had dinner together just last night.
MATT: You were reading the whole time. He's got a point there. Erin feels like shit.
ERIN: I'm sorry, pumpkins. I'll try a whole lot harder to be around, okay? I promise.
GEORGE: If it's any consolation,
ED: It's Sinatra's world, we just live in it. Whatever. Erin glances at the speedometer. Oy. So slow. His car phone rings. He picks it up.
ED: Hello? . Hi, babys. Baby's fine. Yes, I did. I did, too, you just didn't feel it. He starts swerving across the lane markers. THWACK THWACK THWACK. Ed doesn't notice. Erin's getting nervous.
ED: You think I could leave without kissing my babys? Okay, here you go. He kisses into the phone. Swerves. A car barely misses them. Erin's eyes widen. Not fun at all.
ED: Bye-bye . bye-bye . no, you. Okay, together. Bye-bye. He finally hangs up, smiling to himself. Erin clears her Um you mind pulling over? Just for a EXT. FREEWAY - DAY The Mercedes pulls to a stop on the shoulder. Erin gets out, walks around to the driver's side. Opens the door.
ERIN: Um you mind pulling over? Just for a EXT. FREEWAY - DAY The Mercedes pulls to a stop on the shoulder. Erin gets out, walks around to the driver's side. Opens the door.
ERIN: First of all, don't talk baby talk to your wife in front of me. It really undermines your authority. And second, I know you're my boss and all, but you are the worst fucking driver I've ever seen. Move over or I quit. He moves over. She gets in, turns off the Sinatra. They pull back out onto the freeway in silence.
PETE: If PG they bother saying anything about it to us? Why not just keep quiet about it?
ED: To establish a statute of limitations. See, in a case like this, you only have a year from the time you first learn about the problem to file suit. So PG&E figures, we'll let the cat out of the bag tell the people the water's not perfect; if we can ride out the year with no one suing, we'll be in the clear forever.
DONNA: But it was more than a year ago that they told us
ED: It's okay. We're not suing. All we're doing is using this information to get you a real nice purchase price on your house, and get you two a comparable retroactive bonus added to your sale price. This way, and PG&E can still look good to their shareholders, cause they're not involved in an ugly lawsuit; all they're doing is buying a little property. Roy looks up from his retainer agreement.
ROY: It doesn't say here how much this whole thing's gonna cost us.
ED: My fee's forty percent of whatever you get Erin watches them look around at each other, stunned by the Boy, do I know how you feel. First time I heard that number, I said you got to be kidding me. Forty God damn percent?
ERIN: Boy, do I know how you feel. First time I heard that number, I said you got to be kidding me. Forty God damn percent?
ED: I'm the one who's injured, and this joker who sits at a desk all day is gonna walk away with almost half my reward?
ERIN: I'm the one who's injured, and this joker who sits at a desk all day is gonna walk away with almost half my reward?
ED: Erin's enjoying Ed's discomfort almost too much to stop. But just almost. She shifts gears.
ERIN: Then I asked him how much he makes if I didn't get anything. They look at Ed. Well?
ED: Then I don't get anything either.
ERIN: And I realized, he's taking a chance too. When they hear this, and realize he's in it with them, they all reach for their pens and sign. They hand the agreements over to Erin, who takes them across the room to Ed. He stuffs them in his briefcase and closes it up. That's that.
ED: All right, then. Let's hit the road. Boy. Cold as ice. Erin stares at him, stunned by his brusque manner, then leans in to him, close.
ERIN: ( whispering )
ERIN: Donna, let me help you clean all this up. She picks up a tray of iced tea and cookies and heads to the kitchen. Donna and Mandy follow, leaving Ed alone with Pete and Roy. He stands there, awkwardly. Then, finally:
ED: So, what's, uh . what's new?
MANDY: You know that thing it says in here about Well, this old neighbor of mine, Bob Linwood he ran the dairy on Community seemed like someone in his family always had a rash somewhere or other. I just figured it was something in the genes. And you know how it is you don't like to ask about things like that . Erin listens, interested.
ERIN: Well, this old neighbor of mine, Bob Linwood he ran the dairy on Community seemed like someone in his family always had a rash somewhere or other. I just figured it was something in the genes. And you know how it is you don't like to ask about things like that . Erin listens, interested.
MANDY: Well, this old neighbor of mine, Bob Linwood he ran the dairy on Community seemed like someone in his family always had a rash somewhere or other. I just figured it was something in the genes. And you know how it is you don't like to ask about things like that . Erin listens, interested.
LINWOOD: I'm Erin Brockovich. I work at the law firm that represents your former neighbors the Browns. They suggested I give you a call. She steps in a cow patty. Laughs at herself good-naturedly.
ERIN: I'm Erin Brockovich. I work at the law firm that represents your former neighbors the Browns. They suggested I give you a call. She steps in a cow patty. Laughs at herself good-naturedly.
ERIN: Boy howdy, did I ever wear the wrong shoes.
ERIN: . and Mr. Linwood seemed to think that your husband had been sick as well.
MARY: Yes, Mr. DeSoto has lung cancer. Never smoked a day in his life, neither.
ERIN: Mrs. DeSoto said she wasn't sure exactly what it was that you had
PETE: She's not alone on that one.
LAURA: Well, they know what it is it's called fibrous dysplasia
PETE: The bones start growing again. Gives her headaches like you wouldn't believe.
LAURA: they just don't know what caused it.
ERIN: . then Mike Ambrosino remembered seeing you folks at the hospital from time to time too, so I thought I'd just stop by. You must be Annabelle.
ANNABELLE: Whew, are you ever a beauty. I mean, you must drive those boys crazy. Annabelle smiles a little.
ERIN: Whew, are you ever a beauty. I mean, you must drive those boys crazy. Annabelle smiles a little.
ERIN: Tell me something, George. What kind of God lets a beautiful little 10-year-old girl get brain cancer? Isn't He supposed to be in charge of stuff like that? Make sure it doesn't happen? I swear, any other job, He'd be fired.
ED: Hunh-uh. Absolutely not.
ERIN: That's crazy why not?
ED: Because I said no. Look the only reason PG&E's even talking to us is cause this is a quiet little real estate dispute. We add plaintiffs, and suddenly we're in the middle of a toxic tort with a statute problem against a massive utility. No, thank you. They go into their office building.
ERIN: Okay, so here's what I'll do. I'll go on up to Ted and Rita Daniels two of the nicest people you'd ever hope to meet, who spend every single day watching their little girl fight like a dog against this cancer I'll tell them we can't help them cause you don't feel like working that hard.
ED: It's not about working hard
ERIN: It's about being realistic. Something like this, Erin it could take forever. They're a huge corporation. They'd completely bury us in paperwork. I'm just one guy with a shitty little P.I. firm.
ED: It's about being realistic. Something like this, Erin it could take forever. They're a huge corporation. They'd completely bury us in paperwork. I'm just one guy with a shitty little P.I. firm.
ERIN: who happens to know they poisoned people and lied about it. The doors open. Ed gets off. Erin follows.
ERIN: And this shit is bad news, Mr. Masry. Not only does it attack every organ of the body, it fucks with your DNA, too. That means these people's genes, and the genes of their kids, and the genes of their grandkids
ED: I know how DNA works, Erin He gets to the Masry & Vititoe doors. Opens them.
ERIN: We can get these people. With a little effort, I really think we can nail their asses to the wall.
ED: Oh, you do? With all your legal expertise, you believe that?
ERIN: Okay, fine. I don't know shit about shit. But I know the difference He shuts his office door on her.
ERIN: BETWEEN RIGHT AND WRONG! INT. ED'S OFFICE - DAY Ed goes over to his desk, sits down. He sees a stack of messages there, starts flipping through them. Then he stops.
ED: Damn it. He shoves the messages aside and puts his head in his hands. He sits like that for a moment, GROANS to himself. Then he pushes himself up and heads over to his door. When he opens it, he finds Erin still standing there, exactly where he left her, arms crossed. She hasn't budged.
ED: How many families we talking about here?
ERIN: Four more. Eleven people. So far.
ED: You think there's more?
ERIN: Well I found one document at the water board that had a toxic test well reading from 1967. A hell of a lot of people have lived on that land since then. Ed pauses, groans again, realizing what decision he's making.
ED: This is a whole different ball game, Erin. A much bigger deal.
ERIN: Kinda like David and what's-his-name?
ED: Kinda like David and what's-his-name's whole fucking family. Okay, here's the deal if, and only if, you find me the evidence to back all this up I'll do it. I'll take it on. She smiles victoriously.
ERIN: You're doing the right thing, Mr. Masry.
ED: Yeah, yeah. Remind me of that when I'm filing for bankruptcy. He heads back to his desk. Erin follows him into his office.
ERIN: Course, gathering evidence now, that's a big job. A hell of a lot bigger than just filing. I'm gonna be working a lot harder now, taking on a lot more responsibility . He gives her a look. Knows what's coming.
ED: What now?
ERIN: Another raise wouldn't hurt. And with all the time I'm gonna be spending on the road, I'll probably be needing my own cel phone, won't I?
ERIN: You each can pick out four things. But nothing huge. Look at the price. Nothing Matthew and Katie fan out into the store. Erin keeps messing with the phone.
GEORGE: You can buy 'em all the toys you want, but come Monday, when you split again, they're still gonna be pissed. Erin looks over at him, weary.
ERIN: George, I am just trying to do something nice for my kids on my one day off. Could you please not give me a hard time about it?
GEORGE: One toy per kid is doing something nice. Four is . something else.
ERIN: Well, hell, I guess that's it, then, huh? They're scarred for life. They're gonna start holding up 7-11's any day now.
GEORGE: I'm just saying
ERIN: ( with intensity )
BRENDA: For God's sake, Erin, I can see your Erin turns to Brenda, relishing the chance to irritate her.
ERIN: Liar. I'm not wearing any. Ed, in his office, laughs. He's starting to like this gal.
ERIN: MALE VOICE ( O.S. )
ERIN: Yes. Who's this? CLICK. Erin stares at the phone, freaked.
ERIN: I'm not gonna quit cause of one creepy phone call, George.
GEORGE: Come on, Erin. A job's supposed to pay your bills, not put you in danger.
ERIN: I'm not in danger. I have a dead bolt. She goes to the living room, double-checks the window locks in there. George follows.
GEORGE: Look, don't take this the wrong way, but don't you think you might be out of your league here?
ERIN: No, see that's exactly what those arrogant PG&E fucks want me to think that because they got all this money and power, we don't stand a chance in hell against them. But you know what? They're wrong. She heads into the bedrooms.
GEORGE: It doesn't have to be this complicated, Erin. There's a lot of jobs out there.
ERIN: ( off-hand )
GEORGE: You mind telling me what that's supposed to If you got a problem with me taking care of your kids instead of getting some job, just say so.
ERIN: If you got a problem with me taking care of your kids instead of getting some job, just say so.
GEORGE: If you got a problem with me taking care of your kids instead of getting some job, just say so.
ERIN: I didn't say that.
GEORGE: Cause I can get a job. I will. And you can start leaving the kids with the chicken fat lady again. Would that make you happy?
ERIN: Keep your voice down.
GEORGE: I know what they can sleep through, Erin. I probably know it better than you. She gives him a glare, then leaves the room.
ERIN: Hey, Ross. Tell me something. Does PG pay you to cover their ass, or do you just do it out of the kindness of your heart?
ROSS: ( a bad liar )
ERIN: The fuck you don't. No one calls me Pattee. That heavy-breathing sicko that called the other night could've only found out about me from you. People are dying, Ross. You got document after document here, right under your nose, that says why, and you haven't said word one about it. I wanna know how the hell you sleep at night. Ross is speechless. He just stands there. Erin drags the box to the floor and goes to work.
ERIN: I'm so tired I'm about to drive off the road. Keep me awake, willya?
GEORGE: What do you want, a joke?
ERIN: No, no jokes, I gotta pee. Just tell me about your day. What went on back there?
GEORGE: Well, come to think of it, we did have a big event around here. Beth started talking.
ERIN: ( beat )
GEORGE: Yeah. We were sitting around at lunch and she pointed at a ball and said, "ball." Erin says nothing, just stares out at the empty highway, feeling all hollowed-out.
GEORGE: I'd never seen that before someone's first word. Pretty intense. Erin just nods. Keeps staring straight ahead as a tear rolls down her cheek.
ED: Is that what I think it is?
ERIN: She lived on the plume. You never know.
ERIN: This was the community pool?
WOMAN 1: Yeah, that PG thought it was algae that made it so green.
GEORGE: I'm bored, and so are the kids.
ERIN: Just a few more minutes, then we can go. Take her, will you? George drops the pamphlet and takes Beth from Erin. He heads over to Matt and Katie, sitting glumly on a log. As he steps away, a hand reaches down and grabs the flier he dropped. It belongs to a MAN IN A BLACK JACKET. He's in his 50's, strong and sinewy. Military-style dark glasses obscure his eyes. He scans the pamphlet, then watches Erin working the crowd. Watches her carefully. He slides the pamphlet into his inside pocket, and heads back his car the DIRTY OLD PICK-UP TRUCK that idled in front of the Water Board.
DONNA: Erin, this here's Frank Melendez. He works over at the compressor station Erin stops in her tracks, very interested.
ERIN: I'm sorry. What were you saying?
ERIN: I need a ride.
ED: You wanna talk about
ERIN: Another beat. Then Erin's cel phone rings. She digs into her bag, pulling it out as fast as she can. Answers.
ERIN: There's a pause. Then Mike Ambrosino's voice comes over the line, very strained:
MIKE: She was about to take a handful of these He shows them a bottle of prescription pills.
MIKE: It's a morphine thing for pain Erin nods, then leaves Ed with Mike and heads toward:
LAURA: I'm embarrassed.
ERIN: That's okay. I understand.
LAURA: It's just the pain. It's only getting worse. I can't be a good wife. I can't be a good mother.
ERIN: I'm real sorry, Laura. Erin sits down on the chair next to the bed. Takes a beat.
LAURA: Know what I always thought I wanted outta life, Erin? A Jaguar.
ERIN: Jaguar's a darn pretty car.
LAURA: I thought if I could spend that kinda money on a car, it'd mean everything else was I don't even know how much they cost.
ERIN: A lot. But you hang in there, maybe you'll get one. Laura shakes her head.
LAURA: Wouldn't mean the same thing. Erin watches her sadly.
ERIN: They used the hex chrom here, in these cooling tanks, as an anti-corrosive. Then they dumped it here, in these six ponds.
ED: I don't remember seeing any ponds up there. She bites into a forkful of food, keeps talking.
ERIN: They covered 'em over. And not too carefully either, cause you dig one inch under the surface, and the dirt is green as a fucking shamrock.
ED: And that's what caused the contamination?
ERIN: It didn't help, but no. The real problem's on the bottom. She reaches for a document, reads from it.
ERIN: See, according to this, they were supposed to line the ponds so this shit couldn't seep into the ground. But guess what
ED: They skipped that step.
ERIN: I guess it was a little too inconvenient. So for fourteen years, this stuff flowed into the groundwater, free as you please.
ED: ( beat )
ERIN: For your information, Frank cares what was in those ponds 'cause he used to spend half his day wading around them. That was his No shit.
ED: No shit.
ERIN: Suddenly, her eyes pop out of her head
ERIN: Tears spring to her eyes. She fans furiously at her mouth. Ed finds the tequila from the client and hands it to her. She takes a swig. There's a nanosecond of relief . until the tequila hits. Her eyes redden. She spews and gasps.
ERIN: You . Ed chuckles.
ED: Erin lemme tell you something. If I'da put three researchers on this, I wouldn't expect them to dig up all the information you got here. This is some damn good work.
ERIN: Yeah? Then gimme another raise.
ED: Hey, I got a staff to pay, plus rent, plus I haven't billed a minute of my time since I started on this case, so you can quit hitting me up like I'm rich or something. He gets up, grabs his trash can, and moves around the room with it, cleaning up all the Chinese food cartons.
ERIN: Don't give me that. You're gonna get plenty rich off of this, Mr. 40 percent. We got those PG&E fuckers by the balls here.
ED: We've got the PG balls. But nobody's getting rich unless we can pin this on the corporate PG&E fuckers in San Francisco.
ERIN: What do you mean?
ED: of knowing what was going on in Hinkley.
ERIN: Oh, they knew. They had to know.
ED: Show me the document that proves that. She doesn't have one.
ED: Then they didn't know. And if they didn't know, we can't hit 'em for punitive damages. And punitive damages is where the money is.
ERIN: Jesus Christ, Ed you know, the more I work on this thing, the more I realize what a crock of shit this legal system is. Here we got a company that poisoned a whole aquifer that built a pool for a town, then filled it with toxic water and we're the ones who've gotta bust our ass proving things? That's just not right. Beat. Ed smiles.
ED: I like this case.
ERIN: Really? It makes me sick.
ED: Me too. That's why I like it. It's been a long time since I had a case I cared about.
ERIN: You didn't care about my case?
ED: I would now. He gives her a long look.
ED: Hey. I like working with you.
ERIN: Well, good, Ed. I like working with you They both smile a little awkwardly. Take a beat. Then:
ED: When'd you start calling me Ed?
GEORGE: I'm just saying we have one night to ourselves, why do we have to spend it here?
ERIN: Cause it's my office party. If you had an office, I'd go to your party.
ERIN: And here, ta-daa, is my desk. She flicks on the lights. Brenda's desk is decorated and as a present on it. Erin's is empty.
GEORGE: Which one? Maybe they didn't think you were coming. Erin shakes her head. She's surprised by how hurt she is.
ERIN: ( quietly )
GEORGE: Hey. Fuck 'em, babe. Who needs 'em, huh? He kisses her. She leans into him. He kisses her some more.
GEORGE: ( quietly )
GEORGE: Good thing there isn't a present there, huh? That mighta hurt. She laughs a little. He slides his hands up her skirt. She pulls him into her, tugging his shirt out of his pants.
ED: I'll show you what we did back here
ERIN: That's Ed.
GEORGE: Lock the door.
ERIN: No, I wanna say hi. He pulls her back into him, not wanting to move.
GEORGE: We'll say hi later. Lock it. But Erin pulls away .
ERIN: Come on, George, it's a party. He watches her straighten her dress and take a step away from him. It's just one step, but it feels a hell a lot farther.
JOEY: Your wife's real pretty.
GEORGE: She's not my wife.
GEORGE: Fuck you. Just cause I don't spend all day trying to prove what hot shit I am
ERIN: That is not what I'm
GEORGE: The fight is interrupted by the sound of BETH CRYING.
ERIN: Great. Excellent. Thank you very much. She leaves the room.
ERIN: It's okay, baby. It'll be okay. She runs her hand over Beth's head, then slides down the wall and crumples onto the floor. As she curls around Beth, Erin starts to COUGH. Deep, raspy coughs from way down low.
DONNA: I'd got so used to having 'em come up benign, I guess I just didn't expect it. She looks down her shirt front.
DONNA: Sure wish I had longer to get used to the You think if you got no uterus, and no breasts, you're still technically a woman?
ERIN: Sure you are. You're just a happier woman, cause you don't have to deal with maxi-pads and underwire. Donna smiles a little. Then her face crumbles.
DONNA: We're gonna get them, aren't we, Erin? You gotta promise me we're gonna get them.
ERIN: If they've sent that little shmuck Baum again, I'm gonna be real pissed off.
ED: From their tone of voice on the phone, I'd say they're taking us more seriously.
ERIN: Yeah, I heard that one before. Brenda leans her head in.
BRENDA: Mr. Sanchez, Mr. Webster, Mr. Buda, and Ms. Cooper, from PG&E are here.
ERIN: Jesus. They look like the Secret Service.
ED: They're trying to intimidate us. Tell them to wait in the conference room.
ED: MR. SANCHEZ
MR. SANCHEZ: Ed and Erin sit down and get to work. Mario and Anna, clearly told to just follow along, sit down a moment later.
SANCHEZ: Let's be honest, here. Two million dollars is more money than these people have ever dreamed of. Erin has no patience for this today.
ERIN: Oh, see, now that pisses me off. First of all we got more'n a hundred plaintiffs. They may not be sophisticated, but they do know how to divide, and two million dollars isn't shit when it's split between them. Mario and Anna exchange a look. This is getting interesting.
ED: But there's no stopping her.
ERIN: And second of all these people don't dream about being rich. They dream about being able to watch their kids swim in a pool without worrying they'll have to have a hysterectomy at age 20, like Rosa Diaz a client of ours or have their spine deteriorate like Stan Bloom. Another client of ours. So before you come back here with another lame-ass offer, I want you to think real hard about what your spine is worth, Mr. Buda or what you'd expect someone to pay you for your uterus, Miss Sanchez then you take out your calculator and multiply that number by a hundred. Anything less than that is a waste of our time. And she gets up and storms out of the meeting.
ANNA: Um, Erin? Listen. Even though you're not necessarily my favorite person in the world . . sometimes you're not half-bad.
ERIN: I'm gonna assume that was meant as a compliment, Anna, and just say thank you.
ED: Hey. A new plaintiff called, wants to meet you. I told him we'd be out there Thursday.
ERIN: D'you get his name? Course not. Jesus, Ed
ED: He said he'd be at the gas station at six.
ERIN: Boy, this job takes me to some of the best damn places, huh?
ERIN: This is the only station in town, right?
ATTENDANT: He gets in his car and drives off. Erin sits down again. Looks down the road in both directions. Nothing. Then she spots, behind some bushes across the street, a glint of chrome. She shields her eyes against the sunset and sees: the BEAT-UP TRUCK parked behind some shrubbery. Erin looks around, realizes she's alone. As she looks back at the truck, the ASH of a cigarette brightens in the cab. She realizes she's being watched. The driver's door opens. Erin bolts for her car, scrambling to find her keys. She jumps in, locks her doors, and tries to start her car, but it won't turn over. Panic. The Man in the Dark Glasses has gotten out and is heading toward her car. Erin looks around again. Not a soul. She tries the engine again. And again. Just as he gets to her car, the engine engages. Erin peels out of the gas station.
ERIN: Someone's following me.
ED: What? Who?
ERIN: Some guy in a truck he waited till I was alone, then he followed me, like, two miles. Jesus, I'm shaking. Get me a beer. Ed gets up and heads toward the door.
ED: ( to the counter guy )
ED: What kind of truck?
ERIN: I don't know. Big. Dark.
ED: He's gone. Did you get a license plate? Or a make?
ERIN: No, Ed what with me running for my life, I didn't have time to check those things
ED: I was just asking. Are you all right?
ERIN: Yeah. Yeah, I'm . fine. Ed looks at her. She looks terrible. Shaky, tired, drawn.
ED: Jesus, you look like shit. When was the last time you had a decent night's sleep?
ED: Don't worry. I'm getting two rooms.
ED: Lock the door every which way you can. And if there's anything funny sound, whatever pound on the wall. I'll come right over. She nods a little. Then before she goes into her room:
ERIN: I think you should know there's very few people in the world who don't piss me off 90 percent of the time. You're one of 'em. It's as tender as she gets, and he's moved by it. They look at each other. Maybe even considering. But after a long beat, she reaches for her door again. Moment over.
ED: I'm triple locking my door, so don't even think of trying to take advantage. She smiles, goes inside. He watches her close her door behind her before going inside himself.
ERIN: What are you
KATIE: I don't know.
ERIN: She heads out.
ERIN: Jesus, George, they're turning the kitchen into a hellhole. You know you can't leave them alone like that. He doesn't answer. Doesn't move. She notices this.
ERIN: What's going on? What are you doing?
GEORGE: About what? He's very calm. He holds out a small jewelry box.
ERIN: About what? He's very calm. He holds out a small jewelry box.
GEORGE: About this.
ERIN: What's that?
GEORGE: It's a pair of earrings. I saw 'em in the mall one day, and I thought, damn, those would look good on those beautiful earlobes. So I bought 'em. And I said to myself, next time Erin says something nice, does something nice, I'll surprise her with 'em. Know how long ago that was? Six months. In six months, you haven't said one nice thing to me. That's a long time.
ERIN: I'm sorry. I'm just working so hard
GEORGE: I know. But still. Six months. I think you oughta either find a different job or a different boyfriend. Cause there may be men who don't mind being the maid and getting nothing in return, but I'm sure as shit not one of 'em.
ERIN: I can't leave my job, George.
GEORGE: Yeah, you can. You could just quit. People do it all the time.
ERIN: I can't. Look this job it's the best thing that ever happened to me. I mean it. For the first time in my life, I got people respecting me. Up in Hinkley, I walk into a room and everyone shuts up just to hear what I got to say. I never had that. Ever. Don't ask me to give it up. I need it.
GEORGE: More than you need me.
ERIN: I need it. He nods, then stands, to leave.
GEORGE: Maybe you didn't like who you were before, Erin, but I did. That's who I fell in love Only then does she see the packed duffel bag in the corner.
ERIN: You already packed up your stuff?
GEORGE: I pretty much knew what your answer was gonna be. He picks it up and walks out the door, tossing the earring box on the bed as he goes.
ERIN: Wait here. She gets out.
ERIN: Where's my paycheck?
JANE: Have you been logging on?
ERIN: I moved payroll onto the computer. It only knows to process paychecks for employees who log on in the morning and off at night.
JANE: I moved payroll onto the computer. It only knows to process paychecks for employees who log on in the morning and off at night.
ERIN: ( seething )
JANE: You're clever. I'm sure you'll think of Erin glares at her .
ERIN: I don't believe this . then turns and storms out of Jane's office.
ERIN: I want my fucking money
ED: ( into phone ) ( puts the call on
ERIN: ( seething )
ED: Oh, Jesus. You wanna tell me what the problem is here, or
ERIN: It's my paycheck. Which I earned. Which I deserve. Which I shouldn't have to beg for. That fat-ass bitch won't give it to me.
ED: Erin, you're a big girl. If you got a problem with Jane, work it out for yourself. I don't have time to deal with
ERIN: Fuck you. Make time. Cause I bust my ass for you. I watch everything else in my life go straight in the toilet, for you. And what do you do for me? Huh? You see the way I'm treated around here but have you ever stood up for me once? Have you ever mentioned to everyone what good work I'm doing? Have you ever bothered saying, hey, Erin doesn't get paid the most cause she has the best tits; she gets paid the most cause she's the best God damn employee I've ever Is that what you want?
ED: Is that what you want?
ERIN: I want my paycheck. By the end of the day. Ed sighs. Realizes he's going to have to take this on.
ED: I'll see what I can do.
ERIN: You might want to think real hard about the amount, too. My kids are sitting in the God damn parking lot right now, cause I still don't make enough to afford good child care. Makes me think about looking around for a job where I'm appreciated, for shit's sake. She storms out.
MATTHEW: Can I play roller hockey?
ERIN: We'll see.
MATTHEW: The DOORBELL RINGS. Erin goes to get it. Matthew follows
MATTHEW: Randy's mom said yes right away.
ERIN: ( snapping )
MESSENGER: Erin Brockovich?
ERIN: Package from Masry He hands her a manila envelope. She signs for the package, then tears into it as the Messenger heads away. A CHECK and a SET OF KEYS fall out. She looks at the check. It's made out for $5,000. A note attached reads "HIRE A
MESSENGER: Package from Masry He hands her a manila envelope. She signs for the package, then tears into it as the Messenger heads away. A CHECK and a SET OF KEYS fall out. She looks at the check. It's made out for $5,000. A note attached reads "HIRE A
ERIN: Believe it or not, I would've been satisfied with just the check. Ed turns, sees her.
ED: Well, you go threatening to leave, I can't take any chances. You're the only person around who understands what I'm doing. Things come up, I gotta know I got someone to turn to. She sits, reading him.
ERIN: What kind of things come up?
ED: Things like the head counsel for PG calling me with an offer. 20 million, plus attorney's fees. Take it or leave it.
ERIN: Whoa. No shit.
ED: It's about 50 thousand per plaintiff.
ERIN: So what are you thinking?
ED: I'm thinking . I wish someone else had to make this decision. 50 thousand bucks is more than any other California toxic plaintiff has gotten. Ever. But .
ERIN: . but it won't cover Annabelle Daniels's medical bills.
ED: And it's less than pocket change for PG
ERIN: Do you think we'd do better by going to Maybe. but maybe not. We still don't have anything linking this to PG&E corporate. Plus, there's the statute problem. Plus, we're way short on manpower, so we'd need to bring on more lawyers .
ED: Maybe. but maybe not. We still don't have anything linking this to PG&E corporate. Plus, there's the statute problem. Plus, we're way short on manpower, so we'd need to bring on more lawyers .
ERIN: Plus, 40 percent of 20 million's a whole lot of money.
ED: It's eight million dollars, Erin. Eight million dollars. That's a fucking fortune, Ed. And you know I'm the last person on Earth to walk away from a big payday. But you and me didn't get into this to get rich. We did it cause we both have this voice in our heads saying, do the right thing; get these plaintiffs what they deserve the right to live and die in some kind of comfort and peace. If 50,000 isn't gonna buy that, then we gotta say no. Trust me. If you don't do the right thing for these people, getting that 6 million dollars is gonna feel like shit. He nods to himself, and looks up at her, his mind made up.
ERIN: That's a fucking fortune, Ed. And you know I'm the last person on Earth to walk away from a big payday. But you and me didn't get into this to get rich. We did it cause we both have this voice in our heads saying, do the right thing; get these plaintiffs what they deserve the right to live and die in some kind of comfort and peace. If 50,000 isn't gonna buy that, then we gotta say no. Trust me. If you don't do the right thing for these people, getting that 6 million dollars is gonna feel like shit. He nods to himself, and looks up at her, his mind made up.
ED: I knew I put up with your bullshit for a INT. ERIN'S NEW CAR - DAY It's raining. They're driving through the tall buildings of Century City. Ed is full of nervous excitement.
ED: This guy, Erin he's got more toxic tort experience than anyone else in California. He's huge. And he said yes to me on the first phone call, right off the bat. That's it. The big one. They've got the top three floors.
ERIN: Holy shit. Who do they represent, God?
ED: Don't joke. They might. So do me a favor and behave yourself for once. Ed Masry to see Kurt Potter. As Ed turns to check his reflection, a YOUNG LAWYER comes through the reception area. Erin watches him pass, then, still miffed, calls out to him.
ERIN: Scuse me, sir, you got a real nice ass, you know that? The lawyer double-takes on her, then retreats into the office. Erin turns to Ed, smiles.
ERIN: Oh, I'm sorry. Was that not what you meant by behaving myself?
THERESA: Ed. Good to see you again.
ED: Theresa, hey this is Erin Brockovich.
THERESA: Kurt, Ed Masry's here. And this is Erin Brockovich, Ed's assistant. Erin, this is Kurt Potter.
POTTER: ( to Ed, with a wink )
POTTER: When'd they file the demur?
ED: What's a demur?
ERIN: What's a demur?
ED: It's PG have a case. Their lawyers go
POTTER: How many counts?
ED: Sixty-nine. We've got good answers to all of 'em.
ERIN: Reasons PG
ED: Reasons PG
POTTER: Who's the judge?
ED: Why good?
POTTER: Why good?
ERIN: Why good?
ED: He's got a reputation for doing all his
POTTER: How long's he gonna take? Erin's starting to steam at Potter. Theresa sees it brewing, tries to intercede.
THERESA: You know what? Why don't I take Erin down the hall, so we can start in on this stuff? Erin notices all her files in stacks against the wall.
ERIN: Hey those are my files
THERESA: Yeah, we had them couriered over. And listen, good work. They're a great start. We're just going to have to spend a little time filling in the holes in your research. Okay, these people are starting to piss her off.
ERIN: Excuse me Theresa, was it? There are no holes in my research.
THERESA: No offense. There are just some things we need that you probably didn't know to ask.
ERIN: Don't talk to me like I'm an idiot, okay? I may not have a law degree, but I've spent 18 months on this case, and I know more about those plaintiffs than you ever will.
THERESA: Erin. You don't even have phone numbers for some of them.
ERIN: Whose number do you need?
THERESA: Everyone's. This is a lawsuit. We need to be able to contact the plaintiffs.
ERIN: I said,
THERESA: You don't know six hundreds plaintiffs' numbers by heart. Erin just stares at her. Theresa sighs, reluctantly glances down at a file.
THERESA: Annabelle Daniels.
ERIN: Annabelle Daniels. 714-454-9346. As Theresa starts to write it down:
ERIN: 10 years old, 11 in May. Lived on the plume since birth. Wanted to be a synchronized swimmer, so she spent every minute she could in the PG&E pool. She had a tumor in her brain stem detected last November, had an operation on Thanksgiving, shrunk it with radiation after that. Her parents are Rita and Ted. Ted's got Chron's disease, and Rita has chronic headaches and nausea and underwent a hysterectomy last fall. Ted grew up in Hinkley. His brother Robbie and his wife May and their five kids Robbie, Jr., Martha, Ed, Rose, and Peter lived on the plume too. Their number's 454-9445. You want their diseases? Beat. Erin glares at Theresa, indignant.
THERESA: Okay, look I think we got off on the wrong foot here
ERIN: That's all you got, lady. Two wrong feet. In fucking ugly shoes.
ERIN: She insulted me!
ED: Bullshit. It was a misunderstanding. But instead of handling it politely, instead of treating her with respect
ERIN: Why the fuck should I respect her? Ed stops in his tracks, furious. He glares at her.
ED: Not in my world.
ERIN: Not in my world.
ED: Gee, I wonder why. On that, he gets in his car, slams the door, and drives off, leaving her standing alone in the pouring rain.
ERIN: Hey! You're my ride!
POTTER: I've also been thinking about the team. Responsibilities, who should cover what
ED: I think we should makes some changes.
POTTER: I think we should makes some changes.
ERIN: I know she isn't real warm, but they say she's a real good lawyer .
INTERCUT WITH: INT. DANIELS' HOUSE - DAY Ted Daniels is on the phone. Rita is next to him.
TED: That may be. But I don't want her coming to the house again. She's kinda stuck-up, and she upsets Annabelle. Now, I hate to say this, but when she left today, Rita asked if we should get a new lawyer.
ERIN: Ted, no don't do that. If you don't like Theresa, you don't have to work with her. Me and Ed are still here for you.
TED: I called Ed two days ago, Erin, and he still hasn't called me back.
BRENDA: Ed Masry's office . Sorry, he can't be INTERCUT WITH Erin at home, still in bed, so irritated.
ERIN: Don't be a pain in the ass, okay, Brenda? Just put him on.
BRENDA: ( with finality )
ROSALIND: Hey, Erin, I thought you were taking a sick So did I. She heads toward Ed's office, but stops when she sees a meeting in progress in the conference room. Ed is on the side of the table facing her, flanked by Potter and Theresa. On the other side of the table, are FOUR SUITED BACKS.
ERIN: So did I. She heads toward Ed's office, but stops when she sees a meeting in progress in the conference room. Ed is on the side of the table facing her, flanked by Potter and Theresa. On the other side of the table, are FOUR SUITED BACKS.
ERIN: What's going on in there?
ROSALIND: Some meeting. With PG
ERIN: Yup. They must be important, too, cause they came on a special plane. Erin feels this like a sock in the gut. She stares at the meeting, stunned.
ROSALIND: Yup. They must be important, too, cause they came on a special plane. Erin feels this like a sock in the gut. She stares at the meeting, stunned.
CORBIN: . we would enter into binding arbitration judge, no jury with a settlement to be between 50 and 400 million dollars. Ed and Potter hear this and think about it.
POTTER: Any preconditions on the settlements?
CORBIN: The plaintiffs have to agree to it unanimously. And they're barred from ever discussing their settlement with anyone.
ED: 50-400 million dollars isn't a whole hell of a lot of money for your company, Mr. Corbin.
HEAD COUNSEL: 50-400 million dollars is a great deal of money for your plaintiffs, Mr. Masry. As Ed mulls this, he sees, beyond Mr. Corbin,
ERIN: staring at him from the other side of the glass wall, her face cold with hurt and anger.
ED: Could I just take a brief break here for a moment? I'll be right back. He gets up and goes out into:
ERIN: If you tell me to relax, I'm gonna kick your fucking head off
ED: Erin, it's just a meeting.
ERIN: People don't fly down in their own god damn plane for "just a meeting"
ED: Look, you said you weren't feeling great. I thought you should rest.
ERIN: Bullshit. You'd drag me off my deathbed if it suited you.
ED: Okay, look. It's an important meeting. Kurt thought, if it was just lawyers
ERIN: Kurt thought? What about you? Do you think He resists being dragged into an knock-down, drag-out fight.
ED: Look, this is serious now. They're talking serious money
ERIN: And, what, I'm not serious?
ED: You're emotional. You're erratic. You say any God damn thing that comes into your head. And I'm not saying that's bad. That can be great; that can be a lot of fun
ERIN: "Fun?" Jesus, " year and a half, hand you the best case of your life on a God damn silver platter, remind you of why you became a lawyer in the first place, and you think of me as "fun?"
ED: Okay, now you're making this personal, and it isn't
ERIN: My sweat, my labor, my time. If that's not personal, I don't know what is. She starts to COUGH and CRUMBLE, but fights it.
ERIN: ( weakened )
ED: No one's taking anything
ERIN: Bullshit. You stuck me in Siberia dictating to some God damn steno clerk so you could finish this thing without me. After all I've done for you, that's the thanks I get. By now the entire office is watching. As are the lawyers in the conference room.
ED: Don't give me that. You've gotten plenty. You've been well-paid; you've gotten lots of perks .
ERIN: Perks? Jesus Erin reaches into her bag, pulls out her cel phone.
ERIN: If this piece of shit is supposed to take the place of your respect, you can take it and shove it up your ass. She throws it at him and storms away. The phone hits the glass wall of the conference room, CRACKING it. Ed just stands there, with the lawyers staring at him through the splintered glass wall.
ERIN: Holy shit She looks over her shoulder, but the sidewalk is too dark. She pulls a U-turn in the middle of the street. A CAR HONKS. Erin scans the sidewalk, finally sees him again. Holy shit, is right. It's Matthew, wandering the streets at night.
ERIN: She pulls ahead of Matthew and bumps up onto the sidewalk, blocking his path. When he sees her car, he turns and runs the other way. Erin leaps out and follows him.
ERIN: She catches up and collars him.
ERIN: God damn it, Matthew. What the hell are you doing out here?
MATTHEW: I'm gonna go live with George.
ERIN: If you leave here real fast, I might not kill you.
ERIN: We'll work out the roller hockey thing, okay? Whatever you want, we'll work it out. I promise.
MATTHEW: You always say that. Then you go to work and forget you promised.
ERIN: I never forget, honey. I try, real hard. It's just, for some reason, I don't seem to be able to organize things right and when it comes to you guys, I end up falling You never fall short for the work people. I guess maybe you just love them more.
MATTHEW: You never fall short for the work people. I guess maybe you just love them more.
ERIN: Oh, God, sweetheart, no. There's nothing on Earth I love more than you. Nothing. I promise. She lays her hand on his shoulder, but he shrugs it off and inches away from her.
GEORGE: I'm looking for Erin Brockovich. They brought her in in an ambulance?
GEORGE: Meningitis? What the hell is meningitis?
DOCTOR: It's an inflammation of the spinal cord and part of the brain.
GEORGE: She must be a tough cookie, cause it's a pretty advanced case. I'd say she's been walking around with it for a few weeks now.
DOCTOR: She must be a tough cookie, cause it's a pretty advanced case. I'd say she's been walking around with it for a few weeks now.
GEORGE: How does someone get meningitis?
DOCTOR: Usually, in adults, it's from exposure to bacteria or a virus or .
GEORGE: . or lemme guess toxic waste?
ERIN: They said that'd be tomorrow. They just wanna keep an eye on me another night.
GEORGE: Fine. I'll drop 'em off tomorrow afternoon. A moment of thick silence.
ERIN: Thank you.
GEORGE: ( giving nothing )
ERIN: George, hang on. Look . I'm sorry. I just There's a KNOCK at the door, and Ed enters. George looks at him. Not interested in her apologies.
GEORGE: I'll drop 'em by tomorrow. And Erin watches George leave the room, then turns to Ed.
ERIN: If you're here to fire me, your timing's I'm not gonna fire you. I wanted to. But then you got sick, and that woulda made me look like a shit. You embarrassed me, Erin.
ED: I'm not gonna fire you. I wanted to. But then you got sick, and that woulda made me look like a shit. You embarrassed me, Erin.
ERIN: I know. I'm sorry. Do I get to hear what happened anyway?
ERIN: Between 50 and 400 million, definitely?
ED: And if you had to guess .
ERIN: And if you had to guess .
ED: With nothing linking it to the corporate offices yet, I'd say we'll end up on the lower end of that. Still a lot of money.
ERIN: So why would PG
ED: Because. They know the evidence; they know they're gonna lose a jury trial. Maybe they wouldn't lose 400 million bucks, but once you factor in all they'd spend on this case in the next ten years, it makes a lot of
ERIN: Wait, what do you mean, ten years?
ED: Five years, maybe, for a trial. Double that for the appeal.
ERIN: ( confused )
ED: Hey, that's not so bad. Compare it to the Love Canal that was twenty years ago, and those people still haven't seen a dime. So in legal terms, ten years is
ERIN: Fuck legal terms. We're talking about human beings here. Sick people. A whole bunch of them are gonna be dead in ten years. They need their money now! We gotta get 'em to agree to the arbitration, Ed. We gotta get every damn one of those plaintiffs to
ED: set up
ERIN: When? Where?
ED: Tuesday at seven, at the Hinkley firehouse.
ERIN: Okay, good. I think I should be the one to tell 'em, cause they trust me more than
ED: You're not gonna be there.
ERIN: The fuck I'm not. I don't care what the doctor says
ED: This isn't doctor's orders. It's mine. I'm saying you can't come.
ERIN: Why not?
ED: Because Kurt doesn't want to work with you. He thinks you're a loose cannon.
ERIN: Fuck Kurt.
ED: No, I'm serious. You know what Kurt Potter is? He's the kind of guy who never would have taken this case in the first place. He's the kind of guy who would have sold these plaintiffs down the river when PG&E offered 20 million. He doesn't work like us, Ed. There's no little voice in his head telling him to do the right thing. But his mind's made up. He stands to leave.
ERIN: No, I'm serious. You know what Kurt Potter is? He's the kind of guy who never would have taken this case in the first place. He's the kind of guy who would have sold these plaintiffs down the river when PG&E offered 20 million. He doesn't work like us, Ed. There's no little voice in his head telling him to do the right thing. But his mind's made up. He stands to leave.
ED: Don't come, Erin. I mean it. If you do, I'm gonna have to fire you. Just . concentrate on getting well.
ERIN: Come on, kids, we're going for a ride.
POTTER: Binding arbitration isn't all that different from a trial. It's overseen by a judge. Evidence is presented in much the same way.
ERIN: Stay in the car, babies, I won't be long.
TOM BROWN: You don't even know what it's gonna be; how do you know we're gonna like it? Agreeing MURMURS ripple through the crowd.
POTTER: As I said before, it will somewhere between 50 and 400 million Which? There's a big difference there.
MANDY BROWN: Which? There's a big difference there.
POTTER: I wouldn't want to speculate at this point.
MANDY BROWN: Ed what do you think it'll be? Potter turns around and looks at Ed seated behind him.
ED: I think . Kurt's right. We shouldn't So then, what, that mystery number's divided up at the whim of some judge
MANDY BROWN: So then, what, that mystery number's divided up at the whim of some judge
POTTER: Judges don't make decisions based on whim, ma'am. They make them based on precedent and evidence. The GRUMBLE of discontent has overtaken the room. More whispering, more movement.
ERIN: Fucking idiot
POTTER: Look. Everyone. Is this a big decision? Absolutely. But I do believe that if you put a little faith in the system, you'll be quite pleased with the outcome. Ted Daniels gets up from his seat.
TED DANIELS: Mr. Potter, if you knew me from Adam, you'd know that being pleased isn't an option for me anymore. Now don't take this personally, sir, but I've never seen you before in my life. I'm not about to put my faith in anything just cause you tell me to. He drops his agreement form, unsigned, then takes Rita's hand and heads for the door.
ERIN: Can I have one of those counter thingies, The Employee gives it to her. Erin crosses to the copiers. She slips the release form into one, then taps in the number of copies: 635. Presses "START." The machine WHIRS to life.
ERIN: We got no choice. I'm not gonna make it home tonight. Now go wash up and climb into As the kids wander toward the bathroom, Erin picks up the phone and dials. RING, RING.
ERIN: Hi. It's me. I got a favor to ask you.
ERIN: It's not for me; it's for my kids. You're the only one I trust them with.
ERIN: I got you your own room. He takes it, glances toward the motel room.
GEORGE: They up?
ERIN: Hunh-uh. Not yet. Look, don't take any of 'em on your bike, okay? Call a cab if you wanna go somewhere. She hands him a wad of cash.
GEORGE: How long's this whole thing gonna take?
ERIN: I don't know. Few days. Thanks for helping me. I appreciate it. He nods. She gets into her car. Before closing the door, she turns back to him.
ERIN: And I miss you.
GEORGE: Yeah, well good help is hard to find. She sees how mad she's made him. Takes a beat.
ERIN: I treated you real bad, George. I know that. But, my problem was I never been with anyone who deserved better than that. You're the first nice guy who ever liked me. George softens, shifts. He steps toward the truck and gently closes her door, so he's standing close to her.
ERIN: I just . didn't know how to handle it. That's all. He thinks about this. Finally:
GEORGE: Think you could learn?
ERIN: ( with a smile )
GEORGE: You shouldn't be driving around, you know. You're sick.
ERIN: Yeah, but I'm gonna get better. A lot of these folks aren't. He nods, understanding. Then he taps the side of her truck and turns toward the motel room. She puts the truck in gear and pulls out.
DONNA: I don't know, Erin the way he was talking to us, telling us everything was gonna be fine I just didn't trust him.
PETE: And after all we been through no jury, no appeal. It just makes me nervous.
ERIN: I understand all that. And I don't wanna force you into anything. If you don't want to sign, that's fine. But why don't we talk it over a little, cause I'd sure hate for you to turn this down for the wrong reasons.
ERIN: You wouldn't happen to have a little time right now, would you, Donna?
DONNA: For what?
ERIN: Well, I was gonna head over to the Browns now. I was thinking Mandy really values your opinion .
RITA: I thought so, too, but Erin says a trial's gonna take years
ERIN: What time is it?
GEORGE: Real early. We're just gonna take your car to get some breakfast. Erin forces herself awake.
ERIN: No, I need my car
GEORGE: We'll just be a minute. Get a little more He picks up Beth, takes Katie's hand, and calls across the room to Matthew.
GEORGE: C'mon, pal. Leave that alone, we gotta go. Erin turns to see Matthew holding one of her release forms.
ERIN: Oh, baby, please don't play with that, okay? I got 'em all organized. Just put it back. But he's reading it. And something has caught his attention. He looks up at Erin.
MATTHEW: This girl's the same age as me. Erin gently takes the form away from Matthew, wanting to shield him from the harsh realities of this case.
ERIN: That's right, sweetheart. She replaces the form on top of the stack.
MATTHEW: She's one of the sick people?
ERIN: Yeah. She is. But you know what? That's why I'm helping her. So she can get some medicine to make her feel better. Matthew mulls this over a bit more.
MATTHEW: How come her own mom isn't helping her?
ERIN: Cause her own mom's real sick, too. Matthew thinks real hard about this, then heads over to the door, where George, Beth, and Katie are waiting for him. Before he leaves, though, he turns back to Erin.
MATTHEW: Maybe we'll bring you back some breakfast. You want eggs? She looks at the group of them, feels their shift toward acceptance. Smiles, moved.
ERIN: Eggs'd be great, baby. Eggs'd be perfect.
ERIN: Hey, y'all. How you all doing today?
ERIN: Mike! I been looking all over for you. Come here, I wanna talk to you.
ERIN: I will. Bye. She hangs up. As she turns to get into her car, she finds herself face-to-face with the Man in the Dark Glasses.
ERIN: He's just standing there, a foot away, blocking her exit. She recognizes his truck as the one that chased her.
ERIN: Okay, what're you gonna do? You gonna kill me? Dump my body in a ditch somewhere? Or maybe you just wanna inject me with some poison too why change tactics at this stage of the game? Get outta my way, you make me sick. She pushes past him. But he grabs her by the arm. He's a big guy; it's a strong grab. Now she's scared. For a moment, he does nothing. Just looks at her. Then:
DARK GLASSES: If PG documents would that matter to you? Erin takes a beat, realizing she completely misread him. She gently pulls her arm away.
ERIN: Well . I guess that depends on what the documents were. I'm sorry I didn't get your name.
DARK GLASSES: Embry. Charles Embry.
EMBRY: I was working in the compressor, and out of nowhere the supervisor calls me up to the office and says, we're gonna give you a shredder machine, and send you on down to the warehouse. We want you to get rid of all the documents stored out there.
ERIN: Did he say why?
EMBRY: Nope. And I didn't ask.
ERIN: Did you get a look at the stuff you Well, it's pretty boring work, shredding you gotta find some way to entertain your mind. So yeah, I took a look.
EMBRY: Well, it's pretty boring work, shredding you gotta find some way to entertain your mind. So yeah, I took a look.
ERIN: And .?
EMBRY: There was a lot of dull stuff vacation schedules, the like. But then there were a few memos about the holding ponds. The water in them. They had readings from test wells, stuff like that. Erin tries to hide her excitement at this information.
ERIN: And you were told to destroy those?
EMBRY: That's right. Destruction of evidence. Pretty big deal. Erin plays it down. Wipes her mouth with her napkin, takes a sip of beer.
EMBRY: Course as it turns out, I'm not a very good What do you mean?
ERIN: What do you mean?
EMBRY: Well. There were a few documents that I somehow didn't get around to shredding. That I kept instead. Erin stops, mid-bite.
ERIN: How come you didn't say anything when you found these things?
EMBRY: At the time, I thought, I got six kids, some of 'em want to go to college. I can't afford to lose my job. I told myself I was being honorable. But there's nothing honorable in what I did. Maybe that's why they picked me for the job. Maybe they knew what kind of man I was.
ERIN: Hey, Ros, where are they?
ROSALIND: In the conference But Erin's spotted them and headed off before Rosalind can finish. Anna, Brenda and Jane notice the purpose in her gait. They watch her with interest.
ERIN: Erin? What are you
ED: Erin? What are you
ERIN: ( ignoring Ed )
ERIN: 635. They all signed. Every single one. IN THE DOORWAY, Anna, Brenda and Jane appear, wondering what's up. A huge smile of appreciation slowly spreads across Ed's face.
ED: Ho - ly - shit.
ERIN: Oh, now don't get all jealous, Ed. I got a little something for you, too. Erin hands Ed a manila envelope. He opens it.
ERIN: Internal PG contamination. The one I like best says, and I'm paraphrasing here, but it says yes, the water's poisonous, but it'd be better for all involved if this matter wasn't discussed with the neighbors. It's to the Hinkley station, from PG&E Headquarters. Stamped received, March, 1966. Potter and Theresa reel. Ed shakes his head in disbelief.
POTTER: Where did how did you do this?
ERIN: Well, what with me not having any brains or legal expertise, I just went on up there and performed sexual favors. 635 blow jobs in five days. Whew, am I ever tired. And she struts out of the room, leaving everyone slack-jawed. The CLIP CLIP CLIP of her heels carry her away.
ED: Erin puts her hand in the door, keeping it from closing. He stares at her, in awe.
ED: I don't know what to say.
ERIN: Say you were wrong.
ED: I was wrong.
ERIN: Say you shortchanged me and you shortchanged I did. Both.
ED: I did. Both.
ERIN: Say you'd be the luckiest son of a bitch on Earth if I didn't up and quit over all this.
ED: The luckiest son of a bitch in the universe, Erin. The luckiest son of a bitch in He looks down the hall at her, standing so tall and proud in the elevator. He walks toward her, stops right outside the But I know you're not gonna quit on me.
ED: But I know you're not gonna quit on me.
ERIN: How do you know that?
ED: ( with a smile )
ERIN: How you feeling today? Donna turns, sees her. Smiles.
DONNA: It's a good day. I feel good.
ERIN: Well, then if you're feeling up to it, maybe we should talk shop. Erin sits down on a rock.
ERIN: The judge came up with a number.
DONNA: A number for the whole group, or for us?
ERIN: Donna sits down next to her.
ERIN: He's making them pay the maximum. Tears of vindication spring to Donna's eyes.
DONNA: Oh, my God.
ERIN: And he's making them give five million of it to you all.
DONNA: Five million dollars?
ERIN: Five million dollars. She reels. After a breathless beat:
DONNA: I don't even know how much money that is.
ERIN: It's enough for whatever you need, for whatever your girls need, for whatever your girls' girls need it'll be enough. Donna wipes the tears off her face, then watches the light flickering off her girls playing in the surf.
DONNA: I can put them in a good school.
ERIN: Any school you want.
DONNA: And get someone to help around the house.
ERIN: Oh my God. Oh my God. Donna is overwhelmed. Erin pulls her close.
DONNA: Oh my God. Oh my God. Donna is overwhelmed. Erin pulls her close.
DONNA: Oh, my God.
ROSALIND: She lost them. Her reaction indicates this isn't the first time. The front doors open and Erin enters.
ERIN: Hey, Ros. Nice view, huh?
ROSALIND: Yeah, I'm gonna start sleeping here. Masry & Vititoe, can I damn it. Does anyone know anything about these Erin heads on down a hall to:
ERIN: Careful you don't spit from here; you could kill someone.
ED: You see your office?
ERIN: Yeah. Yours is nicer.
ED: Oh, okay. Here it comes.
ERIN: Here what comes?
ED: The extortion, the threats .
ERIN: I wasn't gonna
ED: "I can always find someplace else to work. Someplace that'll pay me a fortune and give me a view of the French Riviera ."
ERIN: Ed, I swear, I'm not
ED: Okay, fine. corner again. You're holding me hostage . He reaches into his breast pocket, pulls out a check. Hands it to her.
ERIN: What is that?
ED: Take it. Erin does. Looks at it. Her eyes bug out.
ERIN: Two million dollars?
ED: The firm took in sixty. That's three percent. Seemed like a fair bonus to me. She stares at it, speechless. He goes back to unpacking
ED: Oh, now I suppose you're gonna say it's not enough. Well, tough, Erin. Too goddamn bad. Cause this is absolutely, positively where I draw the line.
