RECEPTIONIST: Oh, hi.
OLD WOMAN: ( apologetically ) Hi, I was in the neighborhood and thought I'd see
RECEPTIONIST: I think he's in a conference. Unfortunately. I'm really sorry.
OLD WOMAN: Would you just try him? You never know. As long as I'm here. You never know.
RECEPTIONIST: Of course. Please have a seat. The old woman smiles and sits, the bulky manuscript on her lap. She stares politely straight ahead.
OLD WOMAN: This book It's essential that people read it because It's the truth. And only I know it.
RECEPTIONIST: ( nodding sympathetically ) Maybe after the holidays then.
MARY: May I help you?
CLEMENTINE: ( approaching reception area ) Yeah, hi, I have a one o'clock with Dr. Mierzwiak. Clementine Kruczynski.
MARY: Yes, please have a seat. He'll be right with you. Clementine sits. She looks tired, maybe hungover. She picks up a magazine at random and thumbs without interest.
MARY: Howard, your one o'clock.
MIERZWIAK: ( not looking up ) Thanks, Mary. You can bring her in. She smiles and nods. It's clear she's in love. It's equally clear that Mierzwiak doesn't have a clue. Mary turns to MIERZWIAK ( CONT'D ) ( looking up ) ( turning back ) Order me a pastrami for after?
MARY: ( turning back ) Order me a pastrami for after?
MIERZWIAK: Order me a pastrami for after?
MARY: Cole slaw, ice tea?
MIERZWIAK: ( nodding ) Welcome, Howard. She smiles and heads down the hall. Stan, 30's, tall, spindly, and earnest in a lab coat pops out of a doorway.
MARY: Welcome, Howard. She smiles and heads down the hall. Stan, 30's, tall, spindly, and earnest in a lab coat pops out of a doorway.
STAN: She glances back nervously at Mierzwiak's open door.
MARY: She glances back nervously at Mierzwiak's open door.
STAN: Barely seen you all morning, kiddo. He leans in to kiss her. She cranes her neck to keep him Stan. c'mon.
MARY: ( reprimanding whisper ) Stan. c'mon.
STAN: Sorry. I just
MARY: ( somewhat guiltilly ) It's just.y'know. I mean.
STAN: I know. Anyway
MARY: Anyway, I've got to do my tap dance here. She indicates the door to the reception area. Stan nods.
STAN: See you later, alligator.
MARY: Hey, if you're ordering lunch for Mierzwiak, would you
STAN: Hey, if you're ordering lunch for Mierzwiak, would you
MARY: I better do this, Stan. Stan nods again and Mary opens the door to the waiting room.
MARY: ( professionally courteous ) How are you today?
CLEMENTINE: Okay, I guess.
MARY: ( at Mierzwiak's office ) Here we are. Mierzwiak steps out from behind his desk.
MIERZWIAK: Ms. Kruczynski, please come in. Clementine enters the office. Mary smiles at Mierzwiak and closes the door, leaving them alone.
MIERZWIAK: How are you today?
CLEMENTINE: Okay, I guess.
MIERZWIAK: ( nodding sympathetically ) Well, why don't you tell me what's going on? Do you mind if I turn this on? He indicates a tape recorder.
CLEMENTINE: I don't care. He turns it on, smiles at her, gestures for her to begin.
MIERZWIAK: You guess he's your boyfriend? Or you guess you're having a bad time with hm?
CLEMENTINE: What? No. I don't like the term boyfriend. It's so gay. Mierzwiak nods. He's attentive, pleasant, and neutral Maybe gay isn't the right word. But, anyway, it's been rough with him. whatever the fuck he is. Heheh. My significant other. heh heh. And I guess on a certain level, I want to break it off, but I feel. y'know. it's like this constant questioning and re questioning. Do I end it? Should I give it more time? I'm not happy, but what do I expect? Relationships require work. You know the drill. The thing that I keep coming back to is, I'm not getting any younger, I want to have a baby. at some point. maybe. right? So then I think I should settle which is not necessarily the best word I mean, he's a good guy. It's not really settling. Then I think maybe I'm just a victim of movies, y'know? That I have some completely unrealistic notion of what a relationship can be. But then I think, no, this is what I really want, so I should allow myself the freedom to go out and fucking find it. You know? Agreed? But then I think he is a good guy and. It's complicated. Y'know?
MIERZWIAK: I think I know. I think we can help. Why don't you start by telling me about your relationship. Everything you can think of. Everything about him. Everything about you. And we'll take it from there. She nods, thinks.
CLEMENTINE: Um, well, he's a fucking tidy one
JOEL: Hi, Cindy. Joel. Listen, I'm not feeling well this morning. No. Food poisoning, I think. Sorry it took me so long to call in, but I've been vomiting.
JOEL: January 13th, 2006. Today I skipped work and took the train out to Montauk. It's cold. The sky is gray. I don't know what else to say. Nothing happens. Nothing changes. I saw Naomi last night. We had sex. It was weird to fall into our old familiar sex life so easily. Like no time has passed. After two years apart suddenly we're talking about getting together again. I guess that's good. He has no other thoughts. He glances up, spots a female figure in the distance, walking in his direction. She stands out against the gray in a fluorescent orange hooded sweatshirt. It's Clementine. He watches her for a bit, then as she nears, he goes back to his writing, or at least pretends to. Once she passed, he watches her walk away. She stops and stares out at the ocean. Joel writes.
WAITRESS: God, yes. You've saved my life! The waitress pours the coffee.
CLEMENTINE: God, yes. You've saved my life! The waitress pours the coffee.
WAITRESS: You know what you want yet?
CLEMENTINE: ( laughing ) Ain't that the question of the century. The waitress is not amused.
WAITRESS: Yeah. We're having a run on it. The waitress heads to the grill. Clementine fishes in her bag, brings the coffee cup under the table for a moment, pours something in, then brings the cup back up.
CLEMENTINE: ( calling ) And some cream, please. Clementine looks around the place. Her eyes meet Joel's before he is able to look away. She smiles vaguely. He looks embarrassed, then down at his journal. Clementine pulls a book from her purse and starts to read. Joel glances up, tries to see the cover. It's blue. He can't read the EXT. BEACH - DAY Joel stares out at the ocean. Far down the beach Clementine stares at it, too. Joel glances sideways at her then back at the ocean.
CLEMENTINE: ( calling over the rumble ) Joel looks over.
JOEL: I'm sorry.
CLEMENTINE: Why what?
JOEL: Why what?
CLEMENTINE: Why are you sorry? I just said hi.
JOEL: No, I didn't know if you were talking to me, so. She looks around the empty car.
CLEMENTINE: ( embarrassed ) Well, I didn't want to assume.
JOEL: ( embarrassed ) Well, I didn't want to assume.
CLEMENTINE: Aw, c'mon, live dangerously. Take the leap and assume someone is talking to you in an otherwise empty car.
JOEL: Anyway. Sorry. Hi. Clementine makes her way down the aisle towards Joel.
CLEMENTINE: It's okay if I sit closer? So I don't have to scream. Not that I don't need to scream sometimes, believe me. But I don't want to bug you if you're trying to write or something.
JOEL: No, I mean, I don't know. I can't really think of much to say probably.
CLEMENTINE: Oh. So. She hesitates in the middle of the car, looks back where she came from.
JOEL: I mean, it's okay if you want to sit down here. I didn't mean to
CLEMENTINE: No, I don't want to bug you if you're trying to
JOEL: It's okay, really.
CLEMENTINE: Just, you know, to chat a little, maybe. I have a long trip ahead of me. How far are you going? On the train, I mean, of course.
JOEL: Rockville Center.
CLEMENTINE: Get out! Me too! What are the odds?
JOEL: The weirder part is I think actually I recognize you. I thought that earlier in the diner. That's why I was looking at you. You work at Borders, right?
CLEMENTINE: Ucch, really? You're kidding. God. Bizarre small world, huh? Yeah, that's me: book slave there for, like, five years now.
JOEL: Really? Because
CLEMENTINE: Jesus, is it five years? I gotta quit right now.
JOEL: because I go there all the time. I don't think I ever saw you before.
CLEMENTINE: Well, I'm there. I hide in the back as much as is humanly possible. You have a cell phone? I need to quit right this minute. I'll call in dead.
JOEL: I don't have one.
CLEMENTINE: I'll go on the dole. Like my daddy before me.
JOEL: I noticed your hair. I guess it made an impression on me, that's why I was pretty sure I recognized you.
CLEMENTINE: Ah, the hair. Blue, right? It's called Blue Ruin. The color. Snappy name, huh?
JOEL: I like it.
CLEMENTINE: Blue ruin is cheap gin in case you were Yeah. Tom Waits says it in
JOEL: Yeah. Tom Waits says it in
CLEMENTINE: Exactly! Tom Waits. Which song?
JOEL: I can't remember.
CLEMENTINE: Anyway, this company makes a whole line of colors with equally snappy names. Red Menace, Yellow Fever, Green Revolution. That'd be a job, coming up with those names. How do you get a job like that? That's what I'll do. Fuck the dole.
JOEL: I don't really know how
CLEMENTINE: Purple Haze, Pink Eraser.
JOEL: You think that could possibly be a full time job? How many hair colors could there be?
CLEMENTINE: ( pissy ) Someone's got that job. ( excited ) Agent Orange! I came up with that one. Anyway, there are endless color possibilities and I'd be great at it.
JOEL: I'm sure you would.
CLEMENTINE: My writing career! Your hair written by Clementine Kruczynski. The Tom Waits album is Rain Dogs.
JOEL: You sure? That doesn't sound
CLEMENTINE: I think. Anyway, I've tried all their colors. More than once. I'm getting too old for this. But it keeps me from having to develop an actual personality. I apply my personality in a paste. You?
JOEL: Oh, I doubt that's the case.
CLEMENTINE: Well, you don't know me, so. you don't know, do you?
JOEL: Sorry. I was just trying to be nice.
CLEMENTINE: Yeah, I got it. There's a silence.
JOEL: I'm Joel.
CLEMENTINE: No jokes about my name? Oh, you wouldn't do that; you're trying to be nice.
JOEL: I don't know any jokes about your name.
CLEMENTINE: Huckleberry Hound?
JOEL: I don't know what that means.
CLEMENTINE: Huckleberry Hound! What, are you nuts?
JOEL: I'm nut nuts.
CLEMENTINE: ( singing ) Oh my darlin', oh my darlin', oh my darlin' Clementine? No?
JOEL: Sorry. It's a pretty name, though. It means "merciful", right?
CLEMENTINE: ( impressed ) Yeah. Although it hardly fits. I'm a vindictive little bitch, truth be told.
JOEL: See, I wouldn't think that about you.
CLEMENTINE: ( pissy ) Why wouldn't you think that about me?
JOEL: Oh. I don't know. I was just. I don't know. I was. You seemed nice, so
CLEMENTINE: Now I'm nice? Don't you know any other adjectives? There's careless and snotty and overbearing and argumentative. Well, anyway. Sorry. They sit in silence for a while.
JOEL: Well, anyway. Sorry. They sit in silence for a while.
CLEMENTINE: I just don't think "nice" is a particularly interesting thing to be. The conductor enters the car.
CONDUCTOR: Joel hands the conductor his ticket. The conductor punches it and hands it back.
CLEMENTINE: What is nice, anyway? I mean, besides an adjective? I guess it can be an adverb, sort of. The conductor turns to Clementine. She fishes in her bag.
JOEL: Shit. Shit. I know it's here. Hold on. She dumps the contents of the bag onto the seat and sifts frantically through. Joel sees the book she was reading in the diner. It's The Play by Stephen Dixon.
CLEMENTINE: Shit. Shit. I know it's here. Hold on. She dumps the contents of the bag onto the seat and sifts frantically through. Joel sees the book she was reading in the diner. It's The Play by Stephen Dixon.
CONDUCTOR: Next stop Southampton. The conductor heads into the next car. Clementine shoves stuff back into her purse. Her hands are a little shaky. She pulls a airline-sized bottle of alcohol from her pocket, opens it, and downs it. Joel is watching all of this but pretending not to. She looks out the window for a while. The train pulls into the station. The doors open. Nobody gets on. The doors close. The train pulls out.
CLEMENTINE: Joel? It's Joel, right?
JOEL: I'm sorry I. yelled at you. Was it yelling? I can't really tell. Whatever, I'm a little out of sorts today.
CLEMENTINE: I'm sorry I. yelled at you. Was it yelling? I can't really tell. Whatever, I'm a little out of sorts today.
JOEL: That's okay.
CLEMENTINE: ( stares out window ) My embarrassing admission is I really like that you're nice. Right now, anyway. I can't tell from one moment to the next what I'm going to like. But right now I'm glad you said, "that's okay" to me. That was nice of you.
JOEL: It's no problem. Anyway, I have some stuff I need to
CLEMENTINE: Oh, okay. Well, sure, I'll just. Take care, then.
JOEL: ( pulling journal from Probably see you at the book store.
CLEMENTINE: ( heading toward other end of Unless I get that hair-color-naming job. Clementine sits and stares out the window.
JOEL: Hi. I could give you a ride if you need.
CLEMENTINE: No, that's okay. Thanks, though.
JOEL: You're sure? It's cold.
CLEMENTINE: I don't want to take you out of your way.
JOEL: It's okay.
CLEMENTINE: He pulls over. She climbs in. They drive.
JOEL: Where do you live?
CLEMENTINE: You're not a stalker or anything, right?
JOEL: Well, I probably wouldn't say if I were, but no.
CLEMENTINE: You can't be too careful. I've been stalked. I've been told I'm highly stalkable. I don't need that.
JOEL: I'm not a stalker.
CLEMENTINE: ( beat ) You know Wilmont?
JOEL: Wilmont. Near the high school. Joel turns. They drive in silence.
CLEMENTINE: Wilmont. Near the high school. Joel turns. They drive in silence.
JOEL: It's okay. I didn't think you were. There's a silence.
CLEMENTINE: So you like bookstores, huh?
JOEL: I like to read.
CLEMENTINE: Me too. It is Rain Dogs, by the way.
JOEL: Yeah? I can't remember that album very well. I remember liking it. But
CLEMENTINE: The song's 9th and Hennepin. I spent most of the train ride trying to remember. "Till you're full of rag water and bitters and blue ruin/And you spill out/Over the side to anyone who'll listen." Remember?
JOEL: Sort of, um.
CLEMENTINE: Remember? "And you take on the dreams of the ones who have slept there/And I'm lost in the window/I hide on the stairway/I hang in the curtain/I sleep in your hat." Oh, shit. I'm so stupid. Sorry.
JOEL: I'm just a bit of a wreck. "I sleep in your hat" makes me cry. Joel pulls over.
CLEMENTINE: I'm just a bit of a wreck. "I sleep in your hat" makes me cry. Joel pulls over.
JOEL: Well, I wouldn't want to be
CLEMENTINE: Oh, geez, I'm full of shit. I already told you that. Anyway. See Ya. Clementine opens the car door.
JOEL: Take care.
CLEMENTINE: ( turning back ) Hey, do you want to have a drink? I have lots of drinks. And I could
JOEL: Never mind. Sorry, that was stupid. I'm embarrassed. Good night, Joel.
CLEMENTINE: Never mind. Sorry, that was stupid. I'm embarrassed. Good night, Joel.
CLEMENTINE: Thanks. I like it, too. Been here about four years. It's really cheap. My downstairs neighbor is old so she's quiet, which is great. And the landlord's sweet, which is bizarre, but great, and I have a little porch in the back, which is great, because I can read there, and listen to my crickets and. Clementine is in the living room now with two gin and tonics.
JOEL: Very much.
CLEMENTINE: This. someone gave that to me, just like, recently. I like it, too. I like crows. I think I used to be a crow. She caws and hands Joel a drink.
JOEL: Thanks. That was good, that crow sound.
CLEMENTINE: Do you believe in that stuff? I don't know.
JOEL: I don't know.
CLEMENTINE: Me neither. Oh, there's an inscription on the back. The way a crow/Shook down on me/The dust of snow/From a hemlock tree/Has given my heart/A change of mood/And saved some part/Of a day I rued.
JOEL: ( impressed ) Yeah. I'm not, like, a Robert Frost lover by any stretch. His stuff seems strictly grade school to me. But this made me cry for some reason. Maybe because it is grade school. Y'know?
CLEMENTINE: ( impressed ) Yeah. I'm not, like, a Robert Frost lover by any stretch. His stuff seems strictly grade school to me. But this made me cry for some reason. Maybe because it is grade school. Y'know?
JOEL: It's pretty.
CLEMENTINE: I miss grade school. I don't know why I'm calling it grade school all of a sudden. When I went we called it elementary school. But I like grade school better. Sounds like something someone from the forties would call it. I'd like to be from then. Everyone wore hats. Anyway, cheers!
JOEL: They click glasses. Clementine giggles and takes a big gulp of her drink. Joel sips. She plops down on the couch and pulls her boots off.
CLEMENTINE: God, that feels so fucking good. Take yours off.
JOEL: I'm fine.
CLEMENTINE: Yeah? Well, have a seat, anyway. Joel sits in a chair across the room. Clementine finishes her drink.
JOEL: No, I'm okay for now. She heads toward the kitchen with her glass.
CLEMENTINE: Well, I'm ready. Put some music on. Joel crosses to the CD's and studies them.
JOEL: What do you want to hear?
JOEL: You just say. I'm not really
JOEL: Well, I should probably get going.
CLEMENTINE: No, stay. Just for a little while. No. I
JOEL: No. I
CLEMENTINE: I know a man who needs a refill. She grabs Joel's drink from his hand, takes it into the God bless alcohol, is what I say. Where would I be without it. Oh, Jesus, Mary, and Joseph, maybe I don't want to think about that. She giggles. Joel looks around the room again. There are several potatoes dressed as women in beautiful handmade costumes: a nurse potato, a stripper potato, a schoolteacher potato, a housewife potato. Clementine returns with Joel's drink and a refill for herself.
JOEL: Drink up, young man. It'll make the whole seduction part less repugnant. Joel looks a little alarmed.
CLEMENTINE: Drink up, young man. It'll make the whole seduction part less repugnant. Joel looks a little alarmed.
JOEL: Well, I go to a psychic and she's always telling me I'm psychic. She should know. Do you believe in that stuff?
CLEMENTINE: Well, I go to a psychic and she's always telling me I'm psychic. She should know. Do you believe in that stuff?
JOEL: I don't know.
CLEMENTINE: Me neither. But sometimes I have premonitions, so, I don't know. Maybe that's just coincidence. Right? Y'know, you think something and then it happens, or you think a word and then someone says it? Y'know?
JOEL: Yeah, I don't know. It's hard to know.
CLEMENTINE: Exactly. Exactly! That's exactly my feeling about it. It's hard to know. Like, okay, but how many times do I think something and it doesn't happen? That's what you're saying, right? You forget about those times. Right?
JOEL: Yeah, I guess.
CLEMENTINE: ( dreamy beat ) But I think I am. I like to think I am.
JOEL: Sorry. My life isn't that interesting. I go to work. I go home. I don't know what to say.
CLEMENTINE: ( considers this ) Does that make you sad? Or anxious? I'm always anxious thinking I'm not living my life to the fullest, y'know? Taking advantage of every possibility? Just making sure that I'm not wasting one second of the little time I have.
JOEL: I think about that. She looks at him really hard for a long moment. Joel tries to hold her gaze, but can't. He looks down at his drink. Clementine starts to cry again.
CLEMENTINE: You're really nice. I'm sorry I yelled at you before about it. God, I'm an I do have a tendency to use that word too I like you. That's the thing about my psychic thing. I think that's my greatest psychic power, that I get a sense about people. My problem is I never trust it. But I get it. And with you I get that you're a really good guy.
JOEL: I do have a tendency to use that word too I like you. That's the thing about my psychic thing. I think that's my greatest psychic power, that I get a sense about people. My problem is I never trust it. But I get it. And with you I get that you're a really good guy.
CLEMENTINE: I like you. That's the thing about my psychic thing. I think that's my greatest psychic power, that I get a sense about people. My problem is I never trust it. But I get it. And with you I get that you're a really good guy.
JOEL: And, anyway, you sell yourself short. I can tell. There's a lot of stuff going on in your brain. I can tell. My goal. can I tell you my goal?
CLEMENTINE: And, anyway, you sell yourself short. I can tell. There's a lot of stuff going on in your brain. I can tell. My goal. can I tell you my goal?
JOEL: ( ala Paul Simon ) What's the goal, Joel? ( laughs ) My goal, Joel, is to just let it flow through me? Do you know what I mean? It's like, there's all these emotions and ideas and they come quick and they change and they leave and they come back in a different form and I think we're all taught we should be consistent. Y'know? You love someone that's it. Forever. You choose to do something with your life that's it, that's what you do. It's a sign of maturity to stick with that and see things through. And my feeling is that's how you die, because you stop listening to what is true, and what is true is constantly changing. You know?
CLEMENTINE: ( ala Paul Simon ) What's the goal, Joel? ( laughs ) My goal, Joel, is to just let it flow through me? Do you know what I mean? It's like, there's all these emotions and ideas and they come quick and they change and they leave and they come back in a different form and I think we're all taught we should be consistent. Y'know? You love someone that's it. Forever. You choose to do something with your life that's it, that's what you do. It's a sign of maturity to stick with that and see things through. And my feeling is that's how you die, because you stop listening to what is true, and what is true is constantly changing. You know?
JOEL: Yeah. I think so. It's hard to
CLEMENTINE: Like I wanted to talk to you. I didn't need any more reason to do it. Who knows what bigger cosmic reason might exist?
JOEL: You're very nice. God, I have to stop saying that. You're nervous around me, I'm nervous. You don't need to be nervous around me, though. I like you. Do you think I'm repulsively fat?
CLEMENTINE: You're very nice. God, I have to stop saying that. You're nervous around me, I'm nervous. You don't need to be nervous around me, though. I like you. Do you think I'm repulsively fat?
JOEL: I'm nervous. You don't need to be nervous around me, though. I like you. Do you think I'm repulsively fat?
CLEMENTINE: I'm nervous. You don't need to be nervous around me, though. I like you. Do you think I'm repulsively fat?
JOEL: No, not at all.
CLEMENTINE: I don't either. I used to. But I'm through with that. Y'know, if I don't love my body, then I'm just lost. You With all the wrinkles and scars and the general falling apart that's coming 'round the bend. So, I've been seeing this guy. Joel looks slightly crestfallen.
JOEL: Oh, yeah.
CLEMENTINE: That made me cry. But, anyway, we went up to Boston, because I had this urge to lie on my back on the Charles River. It gets frozen this time of year.
JOEL: That's scary sounding.
CLEMENTINE: Exactly! I used to do it in college and I had this urge to go do it again, so I got Patrick and we drove all night to get there and he was sweet and said nice things to me, but I was really disappointment to be there with him. Y'know? And that's where psychic stuff comes in. Like, it just isn't right with him. Y'know?
JOEL: I think so.
CLEMENTINE: I don't believe in that soulmate crap anymore, but. he says so many great things. We like the same writers. This writer Stephen Dixon he turned me on to. And he's cute. It's fucked up. Joel, you should come up to the Charles with me Yeah? Oh, great! She sits closer to him.
JOEL: Yeah? Oh, great! She sits closer to him.
CLEMENTINE: Yeah? Oh, great! She sits closer to him.
JOEL: ( shy ) Sounds good. But right now I should go.
CLEMENTINE: ( pause ) You should stay.
JOEL: I have to get up early in the morning tomorrow, so.
CLEMENTINE: ( beat ) Joel puts on his overcoat. Clementine heads to the phone table, pulls out a notepad.
JOEL: She scribbles her phone number, hands it to him. He puts it in his pocket. He stands there uncomfortably for a moment, then forces himself to speak.
CLEMENTINE: You'll call me, right?
JOEL: Tonight. Just to test out the phone lines and all.
CLEMENTINE: Tonight. Just to test out the phone lines and all.
JOEL: Tonight. Just to test out the phone lines and all.
CLEMENTINE: Tonight. Just to test out the phone lines and all.
JOEL: We stay with Clementine as she watches Joel tromping through the snow and getting in his car.
JOEL: It was snowing.
JOEL: The driver waved. So casual, friendly.
JOEL: I might be making a mistake.
JOEL: Fuck you, Clementine. The colors bleach, the surroundings become slightly vague. Even Joel's persona and voice-over seem to alter, his emotional intensity becoming diffused. Joel does not seem aware of this. He stops pacing, takes a small vial from his pocket, dumps the lone pill onto his palm. He looks at it. It's pink. There's some illegible initials stamped on it.
AL 1718?: ( beat ) I have to follow through with this. I have no choice.
RECORDED VOICE: We're sorry, the number you have dialed is no longer in service. If you think you have reached this recording in error
JOEL: I should maybe talk to you.
JOEL: I love you and if you knew that. if I told you what happened. I'll explain everything, what we meant to each other. I'll tell you everything about our time together. You'll know everything again Maybe if I just explain what happened, I wouldn't have to go through this and I could tell you everything and it would be like you knew and we could rebuild and we could be happy again and. Right before Joel gets there, Patrick, a skinny young man approaches Clementine. Joel stops, watches. The young man seems out of breath. He glances over at Joel, then taps Clementine on the shoulder. She turns, annoyed, sees who it is and her face lights up.
JOEL: That's your look for me. Clementine giggles, stands and pokes Patrick playfully in the I just thought I'd say hi. I was in the You were not.
PATRICK: I just thought I'd say hi. I was in the You were not.
CLEMENTINE: You were not.
PATRICK: I was not. Joel is mesmerized by their familiarity. As he stands there, the scene starts to dry out. Clementine and Patrick continue their flirtation but it's turning lifeless, as if they are just reciting lines. The bookstore start to lose its color and immediacy.
CLEMENTINE: Come over after I'm done here?
PATRICK: I can't. I want to, but I have to study.
CLEMENTINE: You rat.
PATRICK: I really want to, but tonight's important. Test tomorrow.
JOEL: How could she have done this to me? How could anyone do this to anyone?
CLEMENTINE: ( to Patrick ) You didn't say anything about my hair.
PATRICK: It's so cool. You're by far the most sensational person in the room.
CLEMENTINE: In the room?
PATRICK: In the world. Joel seems dazed, in some sort of dream confusion, as he realizes the world around him is looking increasingly odd.
JOEL: What's happening here? Oh, God! I have to go home. They'll be there soon. Joel turns to leave.
JOEL: Gotta get home. How could she do this to How could she not care about what we meant to each other. What a fuck! What a fucking monster she is!
JOEL: EXT. NEW YORK STREET - DAY Joel trudges along carrying two big trash bags full of stuff. He's been crying. He looks behind him and finds himself looking out the window of his apartment at the dark van on the snowy street. He turns back to the New York Street and spots the address he was looking for: 610 11th Avenue.
MARY: Hello again, Mr. Barish. Good, you've got your stuff.
MARY: ( not looking back ) How are you today? ( at lab ) Here we are.
MIERZWIAK: Ah, Mr. Barish. This is Stan. He'll be in charge of your procedure tonight. Stan nods professionally.
STAN: Mr. Barish.
JOEL: How exactly is this going to work As Mierzwiak talks, the room colors start to fade, Mierzwiak's tone of voice is also affected; it becomes dry and monotonous.
MIERZWIAK: We'll start with your most recent memories and go backwards There is an emotional core to each of our memories As we eradicate this core, it starts its degradation process By the time you wake up in the morning, all memories we've targeted will have withered and disappeared. Like a dream upon waking.
JOEL: Is there any sort of risk of brain Well, technically, the procedure itself is brain damage, but on a par with a night of heavy drinking. Nothing you'll Joel looks quizzically at the eroding environment. Suddenly he gets it.
MIERZWIAK: Well, technically, the procedure itself is brain damage, but on a par with a night of heavy drinking. Nothing you'll Joel looks quizzically at the eroding environment. Suddenly he gets it.
JOEL: It's happening now! I'm already in my Mierzwiak looks at the fading room.
MIERZWIAK: Yes, I suppose you are. So, let's get started If we want the procedure underway tonight, we have some work to do. Joel is sitting in a chair. Electrodes connect him to some electronic machinery monitored by Stan. Mierzwiak watches from the corner.
STAN: We use the articles you brought to create a map of Clementine in your brain. Tonight while you sleep we'll be able to trace the map and erase.
JOEL: But you're tracing and erasing now. It's already started. I'm home in my bed. Stan pulls a snow globe from one of Joel's bags, shows it to Joel. The equipment registers Joel's reaction.
STAN: Very good. Stan pulls out a potato dressed as a Vegas showgirl. Joel studies it. The machines register his response.
MIERZWIAK: We'll dispose of these mementos when we're done here. That way you won't be confused later by their unexplainable presence in your home. Stan pulls out a coffee mug with a photo of Clementine printed on it. Joel looks at the cup. The machines record his reaction.
STAN: Good. We're getting healthy read-outs. The room, Stan, and Mierzwiak are now vague and wispy.
STAN'S VOICE: Patrick, do me a favor Joel is watching Stan. Stan is not speaking, yet his voice wiping as clean as I would like here. Joel looks up. Stan's voice seems to be coming from above.
PATRICK: The voltage looks fine.
STAN: Then check the connections. Patrick fiddles with some jacks.
PATRICK: Does that help?
STAN: Yeah, that looks better. Thanks.
MIERZWIAK: Ah, your journal. This will be December 15th, 2004. I met someone tonight. Oh, Christ: I don't know what to do. Her name is Clementine and she's amazing. So alive and spontaneous and passionate and sensitive. Things with Naomi and I have been stagnant for so The scene is just a shell of itself as Stan rattles on.
STAN: ( reading ) December 15th, 2004. I met someone tonight. Oh, Christ: I don't know what to do. Her name is Clementine and she's amazing. So alive and spontaneous and passionate and sensitive. Things with Naomi and I have been stagnant for so The scene is just a shell of itself as Stan rattles on.
STAN'S VOICE: I think we got this one. Let's push on. Joel looks up at the ceiling.
MARY: May I help you?
JOEL: My name is Joel Barish. I have an Please have a seat. Dr. Mierzwiak will be right with you.
MARY: Please have a seat. Dr. Mierzwiak will be right with you.
MARY: ( without turning ) How are you today?
JOEL: Not great.
MARY: ( at Mierzwiak's office ) Here we are. Joel glimpses Mary smiling coquettishly at Mierzwiak.
MIERZWIAK: I'm sorry you saw one of our notification cards. You never should have.
JOEL: Well. I did.
MIERZWIAK: We can help you through this. Why don't you start now by telling me everything you can remember about your relationship with Clementine.
JOEL: ( thinks, then: ) It was a mess. I don't know how it got this way.
PATRICK'S VOICE: It's kind of a dump, don't you think? Joel looks up, trying to locate the voice.
STAN: ( uninterested ) It's an apartment.
PATRICK: Not a dump, then, but kind of plain. Uninspired. And there's a stale smell. Sort of stuffy. I don't know. Stuffy.
STAN: Patrick, let's just get through this. We have a long night ahead of us.
PATRICK: Patrick returns to the bedside, focuses on the machines for a moment. He glances at the unconscious Joel.
MIERZWIAK: So we'll need you to go home and bring in everything you ever received from Clementine and anything that might remind you of her. The scene is faded and disappearing fast. It's gone.
JOEL: So then she just stops calling.
JOEL: Any messages, Carmen? Carmen the receptionist shakes her head. Next day: Joel approaches the receptionist.
CARMEN: Nothing, Joel.
JOEL: Sorry, Carmen. Any messages? Carmen shakes her head "no", goes back to her conversation.
RECORDED VOICE: The number you have dialed has been Joel's eyes bug.
JOEL: Why would she do that?
CARRIE: I don't know, honey. It's horrible.
JOEL: She's punishing me for being honest. I should just go to her house.
ROB: I don't think you should go there, Joel.
JOEL: Yeah, I don't want to seem desperate.
CARRIE: Maybe you need to look at this as a sign to move on. Just make a clean break.
JOEL: I don't know. I'm so. I can't believe she'd be so goddamn immature!
ROB: Joel, look, the thing is
CARRIE: ( agitated, interrupting ) Joel, honey. We have to feed the dog. Would you just wait here? Just a second. Joel nods, confused, as Rob and Carrie leave the room and close the door behind them. Joel hears a hushed argument ensue in the hall. He notices the dog asleep on the floor. He grabs a magazine off the coffee table, flips through it distractedly as he paces, puts it down, picks up another. A subscription card falls to the floor. He picks it up and is about to shove it back in the magazine when he sees it is not a subscription card at all. It reads: Clementine Kruczynski has had Joel Barish erased from her memory. Please never mention their relationship to her Joel stares at the card, incredulous. Later: Rob and Carrie are now back in the room.
JOEL: They can't erase memories. It's a joke. It's a nasty Clementine hoax.
CARRIE: Sweetie, we called the company. Joel just stands there. Close-up of a vague dictionary page.
CARRIE'S VOICE: You can't tell her, Joel. They explained that. Like waking a sleepwalker. It might have a devastating effect.
CARRIE'S VOICE: Think about it: to be told you lived an existence of which you have no But what am I supposed to do?
JOEL'S VOICE: But what am I supposed to do?
CARRIE'S VOICE: Move on, sweetie.
JOEL'S VOICE: How can I? How can I move on when I know I'm the only one to carry this love we had? How do I do that?
MARY: ( dead monotone ) Hi, May I help you? These degraded, faded memories allow Joel to detach himself and hear what's going on in his bedroom.
STAN'S VOICE: So, Mary's coming over tonight. Joel looks up.
PATRICK: Just wanted to let you know.
STAN: Just wanted to let you know.
PATRICK: I like Mary. I like when she comes to visit. I just don't think she likes me.
STAN: She likes you okay.
PATRICK: I wonder if I should invite my girlfriend over, too. I have a girlfriend now.
STAN: You can if you want.
PATRICK: Did I tell you I have a new girlfriend?
STAN: ( re: memory on monitor ) This one's history. Moving on.
PATRICK: The thing is . my situation is a little weird. My girlfriend situation.
STAN: Patrick, we need to focus. Stan aims the joystick.
CLEMENTINE: Yo ho ho!
JOEL: It's three.
JOEL: I can't believe you wrecked my car.
JOEL: You're driving drunk. It's pathetic.
CLEMENTINE: .a little. I was a little tipsy. Don't call me pathetic.
JOEL: Well it is pathetic. And fucking irresponsible. You could've killed The scene is starting to degrade. The acting becomes anemic.
CLEMENTINE: Oh Christ I didn't kill anybody. It's just a fucking dent. You're like some old lady or something.
CLEMENTINE: A wino? Jesus, Are you from the fifties? A wino! Face it, Joel. You're freaked out because I was out late without you, and in your little wormy brain, you're trying to figure out, did she fuck someone No, see, Clem, I assume you fucked someone tonight. Isn't that how you get people to like you? This shuts Clementine up. She is stung and she starts gathering up her belongings, which are strewn about the apartment. Joel is immediately sorry he said this. He follows her around.
JOEL: No, see, Clem, I assume you fucked someone tonight. Isn't that how you get people to like you? This shuts Clementine up. She is stung and she starts gathering up her belongings, which are strewn about the apartment. Joel is immediately sorry he said this. He follows her around.
JOEL: Let me drive you home.
CLEMENTINE: ( without turning ) Fuck you, Joel. Faggot.
JOEL: Look at it out here. It's falling apart. I'm erasing you. And I'm happy. She keeps clomping.
PATRICK'S VOICE: See, remember that girl? The one we did last week? The one with the potatoes? Joel looks up, startled.
STAN'S VOICE: Yeah, that's this guy's girlfriend. Was.
PATRICK: I gotta tell you something. I kind of fell in love with her last night.
STAN: She was unconscious, Patrick.
PATRICK: She was beautiful. So sweet and funky and voluptuous. I kind of stole a pair of her panties, is what.
STAN: Jesus, Patrick!
PATRICK'S VOICE: I know. It's not like. I mean, they were clean and all.
STAN'S VOICE: Look, just don't tell me this stuff. I don't want to know this shit.
PATRICK'S VOICE: Yeah, okay.
STAN'S VOICE: We have work to do. There's a click and Joel finds himself in
PATRICK'S VOICE: Okay, but there's more. Joel listens.
STAN'S VOICE: Patrick. do you know how unethical.
JOEL: That must be the guy I saw you with.
CLEMENTINE: How can you watch this crap?
JOEL: Where are you going?
CLEMENTINE: I'm fucking crawling out of my skin. The scene starts to fade. Clementine puts on her shoes and heads out the door.
JOEL: Oh shit. I remember this. Want to go?
CLEMENTINE: ( pissy ) I want to have a baby.
JOEL: Let's talk about it later.
CLEMENTINE: No. I want to have a baby. I have to have a baby.
JOEL: I don't think we're ready.
CLEMENTINE: You're not ready.
JOEL: Clementine, do you really think you could take care of a kid? She turns violently toward him, glaring.
CLEMENTINE: ( mumbly ) I don't want to talk about this here.
JOEL: ( mumbly ) I don't want to talk about this here.
CLEMENTINE: Joel, We're fucking gonna talk about it! Joel looks around. People are watching.
JOEL: Clem, I'm sorry. I shouldn't have
CLEMENTINE: ( screaming now ) I'd make a fucking good mother! I love children! I'm creative and smart and I'd make a fucking good mother! The scene starts to fade. Clementine's rant continues but becomes attenuated and vague.
JOEL: Oh, thank God. It's going.
CLEMENTINE: It's you! It's you who can't commit to anything! You have no idea how lucky you are I'm interested in you! I don't even know why I am! I should just end it right here, Joel. Leave you in the zoo. Maybe you could find a nice sloth to hang out with! She's crying now, but it's almost animatronic, no real emotion in it. The scene is a husk.
JOEL: It's going, Clementine. All the crap and hurt and disappointment. It's all being wiped away. She looks up at him.
CLEMENTINE: I'm glad. Their eyes lock. She is fading before his eyes.
JOEL: Me, too.
JOEL: So, um
CLEMENTINE: ( swiveling head toward him ) Would you get me another, Joely? Joel sighs, stands, and heads to the crowded bar.
MARK: I didn't know she was with someone, man.
CLEMENTINE: S'okay, Mark. Joel doesn't like my I don't think he likes girls. The bar gets quiet and vague.
JOEL: You're drunk.
CLEMENTINE: You're a whiz kid. So perceptive, so Clementine keeps talking but there are no more intelligible words, just a whisper like a breeze. A doorbell buzzes. Joel looks up.
MARY: ( coolly ) Oh, hey, Patrick.
PATRICK: Hi, Mary. How's it going? She walks past him.
STAN: Hey, you. Stan and Mary kiss. She looks down at Joel as she takes off her coat.
MARY: It's freezing out.
STAN: You found us okay?
MARY: ( re: Joel ) Poor guy. ( looking around ) Have anything to drink?
STAN: We haven't checked.
MARY: Well, allow me to do the honors. It's fucking freezing and I need something. She heads into the kitchen. Stan turns back to monitor the slivers of light.
PATRICK: Mary hates me. I've never been popular with the ladies.
STAN: Maybe if you stopped stealing their Okay, There's more, Stan Stan looks over at Patrick. Mary returns with a bottle of scotch and two glasses.
PATRICK: ( guilty beat ) Okay, There's more, Stan Stan looks over at Patrick. Mary returns with a bottle of scotch and two glasses.
MARY: Hey, hey. She pours the whiskey.
PATRICK: Nah, I don't know. Mary hands a glass to Stan. She holds hers up in a toast.
MARY: Blessed are the forgetful, for they get the better even of their blunders. Mary and Stan click glasses.
STAN: That's a good one.
MARY: Yeah, I can't wait to tell Howard! It seems really appropriate.
STAN: ( a little sulky ) It's a good one all right.
PATRICK: What's your bartlett's?
STAN: It's a quote book.
MARY: I love quotes. So did Winston Churchill. He actually has a quotation in Bartlett's about Bartlett's. Isn't that trippy?
PATRICK: ( trying to engage ) Yeah. Cool.
MARY: "The quotations when engraved upon the memory give you good thoughts."
PATRICK: Very cool. Trippy.
MARY: I like to read what smart people say. So many beautiful, important things.
STAN: Don't you think Howard's like that? Smart? Important?
MARY: Don't you think Howard's like that? Smart? Important?
STAN: ( beat ) I think he'll be in Bartlett's one day. Stan focuses on the monitor. Mary pours herself another INT. JOEL'S BEDROOM - NIGHT It's dark. Joel and Clementine are in bed. The memory is already in the midst of being erased. Clementine is talking in a monotonous, robotic manner.
PATRICK: I think he'll be in Bartlett's one day. Stan focuses on the monitor. Mary pours herself another INT. JOEL'S BEDROOM - NIGHT It's dark. Joel and Clementine are in bed. The memory is already in the midst of being erased. Clementine is talking in a monotonous, robotic manner.
MARY: I think he'll be in Bartlett's one day. Stan focuses on the monitor. Mary pours herself another INT. JOEL'S BEDROOM - NIGHT It's dark. Joel and Clementine are in bed. The memory is already in the midst of being erased. Clementine is talking in a monotonous, robotic manner.
PATRICK: INT. JOEL'S BEDROOM - NIGHT It's dark. Joel and Clementine are in bed. The memory is already in the midst of being erased. Clementine is talking in a monotonous, robotic manner.
CLEMENTINE: You don't tell me things, Joel. I'm an open book. I tell you everything. Every damn embarrassing thing. You don't trust No, it isn't that.
JOEL: No, it isn't that.
CLEMENTINE: I want to know you.
JOEL: I just don't have anything very interesting about my life.
CLEMENTINE: Joel, you're a liar. The scene is faded completely now and Joel just lies there for a moment, registering Clementine's statement.
JOEL: How's the chicken?
CLEMENTINE: He watches her as she downs her wine and pours herself another glass. She holds the wine bottle up to Joel.
JOEL: No. Thanks. There's a silence.
CLEMENTINE: How's the fish? The scene is fading.
JOEL: It's good. They continue to eat in silence as the scene dissolves.
PATRICK'S VOICE: Hi, Clementine! Why, what's wrong? Oh, I'm sorry. Well, I'm not sure, I kind of have to study for my test
PATRICK: Hold on. Let me ask my friend. Stan, can I leave for a little while? My girlfriend is very
STAN: Patrick, we're in the middle of
PATRICK: She's right in the neighborhood. She's Mary is in the kitchen. She pokes her head out. She's got some pie on a plate.
MARY: Let him go, Stan. I can help.
STAN: ( sighing, to Patrick ) ( quietly ) Mary hates me. ( into phone ) I'll be right over, Tangerine.
PATRICK: ( quietly ) Mary hates me. ( into phone ) I'll be right over, Tangerine.
CLEMENTINE: Yeah, Tangerine?
JOEL: Yeah, Tangerine?
CLEMENTINE: Do you know The Velveteen Rabbit?
JOEL: It's my favorite book. Since I was a kid. It's about these toys. There's this part where the skin Horse tells the rabbit what it means to be real. I can't believe I'm crying already. He says, "It takes a long time. That's why it doesn't often happen to people who break easily or have sharp edges, or who have to be carefully kept. Generally by the time you are Real, most of your hair has been loved off, and your eyes drop out and you get loose in the joints and very shabby. But these things don't matter at all, because once you are Real you can't be ugly, except to people who don't understand." She's weeping. Joel is stroking her hair. They kiss and begin to make love under the blanket. It's sweet and gentle and then it starts to fade.
CLEMENTINE: It's my favorite book. Since I was a kid. It's about these toys. There's this part where the skin Horse tells the rabbit what it means to be real. I can't believe I'm crying already. He says, "It takes a long time. That's why it doesn't often happen to people who break easily or have sharp edges, or who have to be carefully kept. Generally by the time you are Real, most of your hair has been loved off, and your eyes drop out and you get loose in the joints and very shabby. But these things don't matter at all, because once you are Real you can't be ugly, except to people who don't understand." She's weeping. Joel is stroking her hair. They kiss and begin to make love under the blanket. It's sweet and gentle and then it starts to fade.
JOEL: ( screaming ) No! Jesus, No! He looks down and Clementine's tear-streaked face is fading. She continues as if she's still being made love to, even though Joel is completely beside himself. He jumps up naked and yells at the ceiling.
MARY: It's amazing, isn't it? Such a gift Howard gave the world.
STAN: ( a sigh ) To let people begin again. It's beautiful. You look at a baby and it's so fresh, so clean, so free. And adults. they're like this messy tangle of anger and phobias and sadness. hopelessness. And Howard just makes it go away.
MARY: To let people begin again. It's beautiful. You look at a baby and it's so fresh, so clean, so free. And adults. they're like this messy tangle of anger and phobias and sadness. hopelessness. And Howard just makes it go away.
STAN: You love him, don't you? Mary seems surprised, taken aback, caught. She is silent for a long moment.
MARY: ( beat ) Besides, Howard's married, Stan. He's a very serious and ethical man. I'm not going to tempt him to betray all he believes in. Stan takes another drag on the joint, passes it to Mary.
PATRICK: Oh, baby, what's going on?
CLEMENTINE: I don't know. I'm lost. I'm scared. I feel like I'm disappearing. I'm getting old and nothing makes any sense to me.
PATRICK: Oh, Tangerine.
CLEMENTINE: Nothing makes any sense. Nothing makes any sense. She pushes herself out of the embrace and looks at Patrick.
PATRICK: Sure. We'll go next weekend and
CLEMENTINE: Now. Now! I have to go now. I have to see the frozen Charles! Now! Tonight!
PATRICK: Um, okay. I'll call my study partner.
CLEMENTINE: Yay! It'll be great! I'll get my shit. She runs into the bedroom. Patrick is at the phone and realizes he doesn't know Joel's number. After a moment's thought, he 69's. The phone rings.
JOEL'S VOICE: Hi, it's Joel. Please leave a message after the beep. Stan, it's Patrick. Pick up.
PATRICK: ( whisper ) Stan, it's Patrick. Pick up.
STAN'S VOICE: Hey, where are you?
PATRICK: I got into a situation with the old lady. Can you handle things tonight alone? I'm really sorry, man.
STAN: I can handle it. He's pretty much on auto-pilot anyway.
PATRICK: Thanks, Stan. I owe you. Patrick hangs up, rifles quickly through his backpack. He pulls out a silver bracelet, puts it in his pocket, then pulls out a journal, flips through it, keeping an eye on the bedroom door. The handwriting is a woman's. He finds what he's looking for. He reads:
CLEMENTINE'S VOICE: I took Joel to walk on Charles River with me last night. It was so beautiful and charming. Joel was nervous about stepping onto the ice, but he wanted to please me so much he's so sweet that he came out after me. We lay down right in the center and watched the stars. He took my hand and said "I EXT. CHARLES RIVER - NIGHT Joel and Clementine lie together holding hands on the frozen river. They look up at the stars.
JOEL: .die right now, Clem. I'm just. happy. I've never felt that before. I'm just exactly where I want to be. Clementine looks over at him. Her eyes are filled with love and tears. Then they get vague. The scene is being erased. Joel is panicked.
MIERZWIAK: We can help you through this. Why don't you start now by telling me everything you can remember about
JOEL: You have to stop this!
MIERZWIAK: What? What do you mean?
JOEL: I'm trapped in my head and everything I love is being erased! Stop it now!
MIERZWIAK: Yes, but. I'm just something you're imagining. What can I do? I'm in your head, too.
CLEMENTINE'S VOICE: . and we made love right on the ice. It was absolutely freezing on my ass! It was wonderful. Clementine enters, dressed for the cold. Patrick puts the notebook away.
CLEMENTINE: I'm so excited. Yay!
PATRICK: I'm excited, too. Oh, and I wanted to give you this. It's a little. thing. Patrick pulls the bracelet from his pocket, hands it to her.
CLEMENTINE: It's gorgeous. Just my taste. I've never gone out with a guy who brought me a piece of jewelry I Thanks. So let's get going. Long drive.
CLEMENTINE: Such a beautiful view.
JOEL: ( looking at her ) Yes indeed. ( snapping out of memory ) Fuck! They're erasing you, Clem!
CLEMENTINE: I hired them to. We're in my brain. But I want it to stop, before I wake up and don't know you anymore.
JOEL: I hired them to. We're in my brain. But I want it to stop, before I wake up and don't know you anymore.
CLEMENTINE: Wow. Um, well. can't you just force yourself awake?
JOEL: I don't know. He concentrates. Nothing happens.
JOEL: I loved you on this day. I love this memory. The rain. Us just hanging. Clementine looks over at him, smiles. Her brow furrows in What if you hide me?
CLEMENTINE: What if you hide me?
JOEL: What do you mean?
CLEMENTINE: ( formulating ) Well. if they're looking for me in memories I'm in, what if you take me to a memory I'm not in? ( proud ) And we can hide there till morning. Joel ponders this. The scene and Clementine are beginning to dissolve. Joel grabs Clementine's hand. She giggles with glee. He pulls her out of the scene as it degrades.
JOEL: Where? Where? Where? He drags her through the landscape of already decayed memories and turns off into:
CLEMENTINE: Jesus. What's this? Joel looks around at the kitchen, at his doll, at the woman.
JOEL: I must be about two. I want my mommy. She's busy. She's not looking at me. Look, my Huckleberry Hound doll! I told you about this! I want my mommy! He starts to cry. Clementine tries to comfort him. She hugs I want my mommy. I don't want to lose you, Clem.
CLEMENTINE: I'm right here.
JOEL: I'm scared. I want my mommy. I don't want to lose you. I don't want to Joel, Joely, look. it's not fading. The memory. I think we're hidden. Joel sucks in some snot. His mother scurries back and forth clanging pots. The room is not decaying. Joel smiles.
CLEMENTINE: Joel, Joely, look. it's not fading. The memory. I think we're hidden. Joel sucks in some snot. His mother scurries back and forth clanging pots. The room is not decaying. Joel smiles.
STAN: It's stopped.
MARY: Listen, it's not erasing. He makes his way, naked, to the computer screen.
STAN: Listen, it's not erasing. He makes his way, naked, to the computer screen.
MARY: I don't know. He's not on the map. Stan tries to break through his marijuana haze. He fiddles nervously with the equipment.
STAN: I don't know. He's not on the map. Stan tries to break through his marijuana haze. He fiddles nervously with the equipment.
MARY: Well, what should we do?
STAN: I don't know! I just said that!
MARY: ( beat ) We have to do something. He can't wake up half done.
STAN: He jerks the joystick spastically. Mary, also naked, gets up and looks over his shoulder at the screen.
MARY: ( definitely ) We should call Howard. Stan turns and looks at her. He's stoned and trying to understand her motivation.
STAN: No way. I can handle this.
MARY: This guy's only half cooked. There's no time to fuck around, Stan. Stan tries to think. He paces. Mary watches him. Finally:
STAN: ( without making eye contact ) He dials the phone, waits.
MIERZWIAK: Stan? What's going on?
STAN'S VOICE: The guy we're doing? He's disappeared from the map. I can't find him anywhere.
MIERZWIAK: Okay, what happened right before he I was away from the monitor for a second. I had it on automatic. I had to go pee.
STAN'S VOICE: I was away from the monitor for a second. I had it on automatic. I had to go pee.
MIERZWIAK: Well, where was Patrick?
STAN'S VOICE: He went home sick.
MIERZWIAK: Jesus. All right, what's the address.
STAN'S VOICE: 1062 Sherman Drive. Apartment 1E, Rockville Center. Mierzwiak writes it down on a bedside not pad. He hangs up.
MARY: He's coming?
STAN: You better go.
MARY: Hell no. She starts getting dressed.
MOTHER: How's my baby boy? She's gone.
JOEL: I really want her to pick me up. It's weird how strong that desire is. Clementine holds his hand. He looks over at her.
CLEMENTINE: You know, we're okay. They're not finding us. You'll remember me in the morning. And you'll come to me and tell me about us and we'll start over.
JOEL: I loved you so much this day. On my bed in your panties. I remember I thought, how impossibly lucky am I to have you on my bed in your panties. She kisses him.
CLEMENTINE: You remember what happened next?
JOEL: I came over to the bed and you smelled so good, like you just woke up, slightly sweaty. And I climbed on the bed with you and you said something like
CLEMENTINE: another rainy day. Whatever shall we He laughs. She unbuttons his pajamas. They begin to make love. Joel's mother hurries around the kitchen. Joel stops, looks at Clementine.
JOEL: There's this guy!
CLEMENTINE: There's this guy. I heard him talking in my apartment. He's one of the eraser guys. And he fell for you when they were erasing you, so he introduced himself the next day as if he were a stranger and now you're dating him.
JOEL: There's this guy. I heard him talking in my apartment. He's one of the eraser guys. And he fell for you when they were erasing you, so he introduced himself the next day as if he were a stranger and now you're dating him.
CLEMENTINE: Really? Is he cute?
JOEL: He stole a pair of your panties while you were being erased!
CLEMENTINE: Gross! You must remember to tell me this in the morning. I'm, like, so freaked out now.
CLEMENTINE: What's wrong with me?
PATRICK: Nothing is wrong with you. You're the most wonderful person I've ever met. She glances gratefully over at him then starts to cry even INT. JOEL'S BEDROOM - NIGHT Stan works on trying to get the signal back. His hair is combed and he's dressed neatly, looking professional but still stoned. Mary is pacing nervously to and from the window, looking out into the night. She's dressed also, and she's wearing more make-up now. Her hair is pulled up into some sort of style. Suddenly she freezes at the window.
MARY: There he is. Oh my God. Oh my God. Do I look okay? She doesn't say anything.
MIERZWIAK: Mary. What are you doing here?
STAN: She came to help, Howard.
MARY: I wanted to learn as much about the procedure as possible, Howard. I think it's important for my job.to help comfort the clientele. You know. Mierzwiak looks from Mary to Stan, nods, and enters. Mary closes the door. Mierzwiak crosses to the equipment.
MIERZWIAK: Let's get to the bottom of this. Shall He sits down in front of the computer and does some fiddling.
STAN: I tried that already.
MIERZWIAK: Did you try going through C-Gate?
STAN: Yeah. Of course. Mierzwiak ponders. He unzips his equipment bag, pulls out another laptop computer and plugs it in to the system.
MIERZWIAK: I'm going to do a Spectrum search throughout his memory, see if anything comes up. Mierzwiak presses some more buttons. The program starts up. A much more complex and detailed human brain appears on this screen. It rotates. Eventually Mierzwiak sees a small distant light in the brain. He zeroes in on it.
MOTHER: Little baby getting awwwl cleean. Awl I love getting bathed in the sink. It's such a feeling of security.
JOEL: ( to Clementine ) I love getting bathed in the sink. It's such a feeling of security.
CLEMENTINE: ( giggling ) I've never seen you happier. The elements of the scene flash explosively away: Joel's mother, his Huckleberry Hound doll, the details of the kitchen, Clementine. Joel is thrown into:
MIERZWIAK: Okay, we're back in.
MARY: That was beautiful to watch, Howard. Like a surgeon or a concert pianist.
MIERZWIAK: Well, thank you, Mary.
STAN: ( sighing ) You get some sleep, Howard. I'll take it from here.
MIERZWIAK: Yeah, probably a good idea.
CLEMENTINE: But can't you see. I love you, Antoine.
JOEL: Don't call me Antoine. My name is Wally.
CLEMENTINE: Yes, but I can't love a man named Wally. She starts to fade. The scene starts to fade. Joel remembers their previous plan.
JOEL: They found us before. The plan didn't work. I don't know what to do now.
CLEMENTINE: ( mouthing to woman on screen ) Hide me somewhere deeper? Somewhere Joel grabs her. They run off just as the scene decays into a husk behind them.
STAN: Howard, they've disappeared again.
MIERZWIAK: Oh dear.
MARY: I'm so sorry, Howard, you must be tired. He nods, distractedly. She smiles to herself as he heads back to the equipment.
CLEMENTINE: Look at you, cutey! What are we doing?
JOEL: This kid, Joe Early, is going to beat the shit out of me.
JOE EARLY: Hi, Jill.
JOEL: He calls me Jill. Everyone calls me Jill after this. The other kids laughs.
JOEL: Just shut up, Joe. I'm going home.
JOE EARLY: I don't think so. We're fighting.
JOEL: I don't want to fight you. The kids start chanting, "fight, fight, fight." Joe Early throws a wild punch that hits Joel in the side. joel falls and stays down, covering himself.
JOE EARLY: C'mon, Jill. Get up, faggot. C'mon. Joel doesn't say anything. He peeks humiliated at Clementine. She's watching him. She's got a tear in her eye. She kneels down beside him, puts her arm around him.
JOEL: I'm too scared to even throw a punch. When I tell people this story I leave that part out. The scene flashes violently to white and is gone.
MIERZWIAK: We got him back. Stan, I think I'm just going to have to get through this manually. We're running late.
CLEMENTINE: Our house! Our house! She runs ahead, laughing. The scene is decaying. Joel chases after her.
JOEL: Clem, c'mon, we've got to hide you. He grabs her arm and yanks and they are in:
CLEMENTINE: ( mock offended ) ( continuing to masturbate ) I don't like it either, but I'm just trying to find horrible secret place to Joel's mother pops her head in the door.
JOEL: ( continuing to masturbate ) I don't like it either, but I'm just trying to find horrible secret place to Joel's mother pops her head in the door.
MOTHER: Joel, I was just Oh. Um. I'll ask you in the morning, honey. Have a good night. The mother backs out, closes the door. Joel cringes. Clementine laughs, still in the mode of the memory she was swiped from. Flash! It's all gone.
JOEL: Happy Birthday.
CLEMENTINE: ( unwrapping the gift ) Thanks, Joely. A present! Oh boy! She pulls out the bracelet. It's the same bracelet Patrick gave her.
JOEL: I scoured the city for it.
CLEMENTINE: I love it! She leans across the table to kiss him. He grabs her and runs through the decaying scene and into the vague night.
BOYS: C'mon, Joel, you have to. Do it already. Joel doesn't want to. Clementine watches.
JOEL: I can't. I have to go home. I'll do it I didn't want to do this. But I had to or they would've called me a girl. Joel miserably smashes the bird repeatedly with the hammer. Red jelly guts cover the hammer and the wagon bottom. The kids hoot.
CLEMENTINE: It's okay. You were a little kid. This is a great birthday present. Getting to see you as a boy. She kisses him and they walk holding hands.
JOEL: ( pointing ) That's where I live. Lived. Joel looks down at her hand. It's fading. The bracelet is gone. Clementine is gone. His childhood house is gone.
MIERZWIAK: I'm getting the hang of it. I still understand it. But I'm finding him quickly enough. I'm hopeful there won't be too much peripheral eradication. Mary sits on the bed.
MARY: ( a little giggly ) I like watching you work. Stan sighs, grabs his coat.
STAN: I'll go out for a smoke. If no one That's fine, Stan. Mary doesn't say anything. Stan huffs and is out the door. Mierzwiak continues to find and erase points of light. Mary gets up her courage to speak.
MIERZWIAK: ( not looking up ) That's fine, Stan. Mary doesn't say anything. Stan huffs and is out the door. Mierzwiak continues to find and erase points of light. Mary gets up her courage to speak.
MARY: Do you like quotes, Howard?
MIERZWIAK: How do you mean?
MARY: Oh, um, like famous quotes. I find reading them inspirational to me. And in my reading I've come across some I thought you might like, too.
MIERZWIAK: Oh. Well, I'd love to hear some. Mary is thrilled, beside herself. She tries to calm down.
MARY: Okay, um, there's one that goes "Blessed are the forgetful, for they get the better even of their blunders."
MIERZWIAK: Is that Nietzsche?
MARY: Yeah, yeah it is, Howard. And here I was thinking I could tell you something you didn't know.
MIERZWIAK: It's a good quote, Mary. I'm glad we both know it. He smiles at her. She's flustered, flattered.
MARY: ( sputtering ) There's another one I like, I read. It's by Pope Alexander.
MIERZWIAK: Alexander Pope?
MARY: Yes, shit. Oops, sorry! Sorry. It's just I told myself I wasn't going to say Pope Alexander and sound like a dope and then I go ahead and do it. Like I psyched myself out.
MIERZWIAK: It's no big deal.
MARY: You are such a sweetheart. There's an embarrassed moment as that line hangs in the air. Then Mary plunges ahead to bury it.
MIERZWIAK: That's lovely.
MARY: Really? I thought it was appropriate maybe. That's all. I really admire the work that you do. I know it's not proper to be so familiar but I guess since we're outside the workplace I feel a certain liberty to
MIERZWIAK: It's fine, Mary. I'm happy to hear it.
MARY: Okay. Good. Great. Thanks. I like you, Howard. an awful lot. Is that terrible? Mierzwiak seems momentarily taken aback, then returns to his unflappable self.
MIERZWIAK: You're a wonderful girl, Mary. She leans over and kisses him, then pulls away quickly.
MARY: I've loved you for a very long time. I'm sorry! I shouldn't have said that.
MIERZWIAK: I've got a wife, Mary. Kids. You know I wish I was your wife. I wish I had your kids. Mierzwiak comforts her with a hug. It turns into kiss. He pulls away.
MARY: ( suddenly weepy ) I wish I was your wife. I wish I had your kids. Mierzwiak comforts her with a hug. It turns into kiss. He pulls away.
MIERZWIAK: We can't do this.
MARY: No you're right. Once again. You're a decent man, Howard. He smiles sadly at her. She smiles courageously at him.
MIERZWIAK: I want you to know it's not because I'm not interested. If that means anything. They look at each other a long while, then Howard goes back to locating and eradicating blips of lights.
MARY: She follows his eyes and sees the woman in the window, who turns and walks off in a huff.
MIERZWIAK: Hollis! Hollis!
MIERZWIAK: It didn't start out to be this. I came here to work. It's a one-time mistake. Mary is right behind Mierzwiak now. Hollis is in her car.
MARY: ( heroically ) Mrs. Mierzwiak, it's true. And it's not Mr. Mierzwiak's fault. I'm a stupid little girl with a stupid little crush. I basically forced him into it. I swear. Hollis turns, looks at Mary and then at Mierzwiak.
HOLLIS: Don't be a monster, Howard. Tell the Stan is out of the van now, listening. Mary shivers in the cold, hugs herself. There's a long silence. Then:
MARY: Tell me what? Hollis and Mierzwiak have locked eyes. Mary looks back and forth between them. Hollis starts her car.
HOLLIS: Poor kid. You can have him. You did. She drives off. Mary watches Howard with increased What, Howard?
MARY: What, Howard?
MIERZWIAK: We. have a history. I'm sorry. You wanted the procedure. You wanted it done. to get past. I have to finish in there. It's almost morning. We'll talk He shuffles inside. Mary stands there, unable to digest this, struggling in vain to remember. Stan watches.
STAN: Let me take you home. Mary shakes her head "no." She walks off, dazed.
PATRICK: I could die right now, Clem. I'm just happy. I've never felt that before. I'm just exactly where I want to be. Clementine looks over at him. Their eyes meet. She sobs.
CLEMENTINE: I want to go home. She hurries toward the shore, slips on the ice, gets up, and continues, now running.
CLEMENTINE: I love this book, Joel. Thank you so much for telling me about it. Joel is his father. The father is drunk and sullen. He faces away from Joel, looks out at the lake.
FATHER: Don't be like me, son. Don't waste your life. You'll come to a point someday where it'll be too late. You'll be sewn into your fate.
JOEL: It was horrifying, seeing my father like There was no hope for me if his life was such a failure. And he saw failure in me, too, written in my future. Clementine watches the frightened, confused Joel.
FATHER: .and there'll be nowhere to go except where you're headed, like a train on a track. Inevitable, unalterable. The scene poops out of existence with a flash of light.
JOEL: I'm done, Clem. I'm just going to ride it out. Hiding is clearly not working.
CLEMENTINE: I want to enjoy my little time left with This is our first "date" date.
JOEL: I want to enjoy my little time left with This is our first "date" date.
CLEMENTINE: This is our first "date" date.
JOEL: Do you remember what we talked about?
CLEMENTINE: Naomi, I guess.
JOEL: What was I wearing?
CLEMENTINE: What was I wearing?
JOEL: God, I should know. Your hair was red. I remember it matched the wallpaper.
CLEMENTINE: Egad, were you horrified?
JOEL: No! I think you were wearing that black dress, y'know, with the buttons. She is wearing the black dress.
CLEMENTINE: No, you were with me when I bought that. At that place on East 6th. It was later.
JOEL: Right. Something black though.
CLEMENTINE: I'll buy that. Black's always good.
JOEL: We did talk about Naomi.
CLEMENTINE: I said: Are you sure? You seem unsure.
JOEL: I'm sure, I said.
CLEMENTINE: But you weren't. I could tell.
JOEL: I was so nervous. I remember I couldn't think of anything to say. There were long silences. There is a long silence.
CLEMENTINE: So what. Infatuation is good, too.
JOEL: And I didn't have an argument.
JOEL: I dropped you off after. You said
CLEMENTINE: ( Mae West ) Come up and see me. now.
JOEL: It's very late.
CLEMENTINE: Yes, exactly. Exactly my point.
JOEL: This was our first time. The scene starts to fade. Joel watches Clementine disappear.
MIERZWIAK VOICE: Okay, so just tell me what you remember. And we'll take it from there.
MARY'S VOICE: ( shaky ) Um, I liked you immediately. At the job interview. You seemed so. important and mature. And I loved that you were helping all these people. You didn't come on to me at all. I liked that. I was tongue-tied around you at first. I wanted you to think I was smart. You were so nice. I loved the way you smelled. I couldn't wait to come to work. I had these fantasies of us being married and having kids and just. ( starts to cry ) .and so. then. when. that one day, when I thought you looked at me back. like. Oh, Howie, I can't do this? How can I do this?
MIERZWIAK VOICE: It's what's best, Mary. You know that. Mary slumps to the floor. We move into her eyes.
MARY'S VOICE: Yeah, I know. Oh, God. Okay, well, I was so excited.
JOEL: On the couch. Dark. Quiet. I wondered if I had made a terrible mistake. I almost reached for the phone about a thousand times. I thought I could take it back, erase it, explain I had momentarily lost my mind. Then I told myself we weren't happy. That was the truth. That what we were was safe. It was unfair to you and to me to stay in a relationship for that reason. I thought about Clementine and the spark when I was with her, but then I thought what you and I had was real and adult and therefore significant even if it wasn't much fun. But I wanted fun. I saw other people having fun and I wanted it. Then I thought fun is a lie, that no one is really having fun; I'm being suckered by advertising and movie bullshit. then I thought maybe not, maybe not. And then I thought, as I always do at this point in my argument, about dying.
NAOMI: You take it. I don't know. She tosses it in a box.
JOEL: You take it. I don't know. She tosses it in a box.
NAOMI: Don't do this to me now, Joel. Really.
JOEL: I told her today I need to end it.
CLEMENTINE: Is that what you want?
JOEL: I did it. I guess that means something. Clementine shrugs. The scene fades.
NAOMI: So what's going on, Joel?
JOEL: I don't know, I've just been thinking, maybe we're not happy with each other.
NAOMI: Y'know, we've been, I don't know, sort of, unhappy with each other and
JOEL: Y'know, we've been, I don't know, sort of, unhappy with each other and
NAOMI: Don't say "we" when you mean "you."
JOEL: I think maybe, we're both so used to operating at this level that How can one person be unhappy? If one person is unhappy, both have to be. by Bullshit. Who is it? You met someone.
NAOMI: Bullshit. Who is it? You met someone.
JOEL: No. I just need some space, maybe.
NAOMI: The thing is, Joel, whatever it is you think you have with this chick, once the thrill wears off, you're just going to be Joel with the same fucking problems.
JOEL: It's not somebody else.
JOEL: Is there a Clementine who works here?
JOEL: She turns.
CLEMENTINE: I didn't think you'd show your face around me again. I figured you were humiliated. You did run away, after all.
JOEL: Sorry to track you down like this. I'm not a stalker. But I needed to see you.
CLEMENTINE: ( seemingly uninterested ) I'd like to. take you out or something.
JOEL: I'd like to. take you out or something.
CLEMENTINE: Well, you're married.
JOEL: Not yet. Not married.
CLEMENTINE: Look, man, I'm telling you right off the bat, I'm high maintenance. So I'm not going to tiptoe around your marriage or whatever it is you got going there. If you want to be with me, you're with me.
JOEL: So make your domestic decisions and maybe we'll talk again. She goes back to stacking. Joel stands there helplessly.
CLEMENTINE: So make your domestic decisions and maybe we'll talk again. She goes back to stacking. Joel stands there helplessly.
JOEL: I just think that you have some kind of. quality that seems really important to me. The scene is disintegrating. Clementine's speech is delivered without passion.
CLEMENTINE: Joel, I'm not a concept. I want you to just keep that in your head. Too many guys think I'm a concept or I complete them or I'm going to make them alive, but I'm just a fucked-up girl who is looking for my own peace of mind. Don't assign me yours.
JOEL: I remember that speech really well.
CLEMENTINE: ( smiling ) I had you pegged, didn't I?
JOEL: You had the whole human race pegged.
CLEMENTINE: I still thought you were going to save me. Even after that.
JOEL: I still thought you were going to save me. Even after that.
CLEMENTINE: I know.
JOEL: It would be different, if we could just give it another go around.
CLEMENTINE: Remember me. Try your best. Maybe we The scene is gone.
JOEL: Thanks, guys.
CARRIE: I hope you feel better, sweetie.
JOEL: Say hi to Naomi. The car door closes.
CARRIE: Say hi to Naomi. The car door closes.
NAOMI: ( full of sleep ) How was it?
JOEL: How was it?
NAOMI: How was it?
JOEL: You didn't miss much. Rob Carrie say Hi, Rob and Carrie.
NAOMI: Hi, Rob and Carrie.
JOEL: Go back to sleep. The room is starting to decompose.
NAOMI: Yeah. Come to bed. I'm cold.
JOEL: In a minute. Naomi turns over. Joel goes back to his writing.
JOEL: So you don't mind?
NAOMI: I've got to finish this chapter anyway. The scene is fading.
JOEL: Okay. I wish you could come.
JOEL: I hope you get your work done.
NAOMI: ( sighing ) INT. ROB AND CARRIE'S CAR - NIGHT Rob drives. Carrie fiddles with the radio dial in the front passenger seat. Joel sits in the back.
CARRIE: I'm sorry Naomi couldn't make it. You okay? You seem quiet.
JOEL: Just a little overworked, maybe.
JOEL: I remember you turned around. Your face was dark and your hair was backlit I could see a halo of frizz you asked me if things were okay between Naomi and me.
CARRIE: I did. You said, things were fine.
JOEL: I remember.
CARRIE: This is the night you met Clementine, Joel. I remember watching you walk down the beach with her and I thought, oh Yeah, you told me that later.
JOEL: Yeah, you told me that later.
CARRIE: I told you that later. Joel looks out he window. He sees the husk of a memory on the darkened roadside. It's Joel and Carrie in:
CARRIE: Who was the girl you walked off with?
JOEL: No one.
CARRIE: Is this the right way?
JOEL: You were down by the surf. I could just make you out in the dark. Joel looks down to the water. There's Clementine, in her orange hooded sweatshirt, looking out to sea.
CLEMENTINE: Hi there.
JOEL: I was so nervous. What were you doing there, I wondered. Your hair was lime green. Green revolution. A shot of her green hair.
JOEL: You said.
CLEMENTINE: I saw you sitting over here. By yourself. I thought, thank God, someone normal, who doesn't know how interact at these things either.
JOEL: Yeah. I don't ever know what to say.
CLEMENTINE: I can't tell you how happy I am to hear that. I mean, I don't mean I'm happy you're uncomfortable, but, yknow. I'm such a loser. Every time I come to a party I tell myself I'm going to be different and it's always exactly the same and then I hate myself after for being such a clod.
JOEL: Even then I didn't believe you entirely. I thought how could you be talking to me if you couldn't talk to people?
CLEMENTINE: But, I don't know, maybe we're the normal ones, y'know? I mean, what kind of people do well at this stuff?
JOEL: You know what I did.
CLEMENTINE: Yeah, I know. I'm fishing.
JOEL: You said She picks a drumstick off of Joel's plate.
CLEMENTINE: I'm Clementine. Can I borrow a piece of your chicken?
JOEL: And you picked it out of my plate before I could answer and it felt so intimate like we were already lovers.
CLEMENTINE: Oh God, how horrid.
JOEL: I'm Joel.
JOEL: You mean, like. Oh, my darlin', oh, my darlin', oh, my darlin', Clementine. ? Huckleberry Hound? That sort of thing?
CLEMENTINE: Yeah, like that.
JOEL: Nope. No jokes. My favorite thing when I was a kid was my Huckleberry Hound doll. I think your name is magic. She smiles.
CLEMENTINE: ( eyes welling ) This is it, Joel. It's gonna be gone I know.
JOEL: I know.
CLEMENTINE: What do we do?
JOEL: Enjoy it. Say good-bye. She nods. Joel and Clementine are walking near the surf.
CLEMENTINE: No, I stopped. I didn't want to feel like I was being artificially modulated.
JOEL: I know what you mean. That's why I But my sleeping is really fucked up.
CLEMENTINE: But my sleeping is really fucked up.
JOEL: I don't think I've slept in a year.
CLEMENTINE: You should try Xanax. I mean, it's a chemical and all, but it works. and it works just having it around, knowing that it's there. Like insurance.
JOEL: I'll give you a couple. See what you Have you ever read any Anna Akhmatova?
CLEMENTINE: I'll give you a couple. See what you Have you ever read any Anna Akhmatova?
JOEL: Have you ever read any Anna Akhmatova?
CLEMENTINE: Have you ever read any Anna Akhmatova?
JOEL: I love her.
CLEMENTINE: Really? Me, too! I don't meet people who even know who she is and I work in a book store.
JOEL: I think she's great.
CLEMENTINE: Me too. There's this poem
JOEL: Did this conversation come before or after we saw the house?
CLEMENTINE: I think, before.
JOEL: Seems too coincidental that way.
CLEMENTINE: Yeah, maybe. Joel and Clementine wander near some beach houses closed for the winter.
JOEL: Yeah, yeah. It goes "Perhaps there is someone in this world to whom I could send all these lines"?
CLEMENTINE: Yes! I love that poem. It breaks my heart. I'm so excited you know it. Look, houses in which we don't live. Joel chuckles appreciatively.
JOEL: Um, no.
CLEMENTINE: Let's move into this neighborhood. Clementine tries one of the doors on a darkened house. Joel is nervous.
JOEL: I do sort of live with somebody though.
CLEMENTINE: She walks to the next house, tries the door.
JOEL: At least I haven't been barking up the wrong tree. She finds a window that's unlatched. She lifts it.
CLEMENTINE: At least I haven't been barking up the wrong tree. She finds a window that's unlatched. She lifts it.
JOEL: What are you doing?
CLEMENTINE: It's freezing out here. She scrambles in the window. Joel looks around, panicked.
JOEL: ( whisper ) I couldn't believe you did that. I was paralyzed with fear. The front door opens and Clementine stands there beckoning.
JOEL: I hesitated for what seemed like forever.
CLEMENTINE: I could see you wanted to come in, Joel. He walks cautiously toward the door.
JOEL: I knew.
CLEMENTINE: I knew by your nervousness that Naomi wasn't the kind of girl who forced you to criminally trespass.
JOEL: It's dark.
CLEMENTINE: Yeah. What's your girlfriend's name?
JOEL: She's searching through drawers for something. She pulls out a flashlight, shines it in Joel's face.
CLEMENTINE: Ah-ha! Now I can look for candles, matches, and the liquor cabinet.
JOEL: I think we should go.
CLEMENTINE: No, it's our house! Just tonight we're David and Ruth Laskin. Which one do you want to be? I prefer to be Ruth but I'm flexible. Alcohol! You make drinks. I'm going find the bedroom and slip into something more Ruth. I'm ruthless at the moment. She runs upstairs, giggling. The room is drying out, turning into a husk.
JOEL: ( calling after her ) I really should go. I really need to catch my ride.
JOEL: I did. I walked out the door. I felt like I was a scared little kid. I thought you knew that about me. I ran back to the bonfire, trying to outrun my humiliation. You said, "so go" with such What if you stay this time?
JOEL: I walked out the door. There's no more Come back and make up a good-bye at least. Let's pretend we had one. Clementine comes downstairs, vague and robotic, making her way through the decaying environment.
CLEMENTINE: Come back and make up a good-bye at least. Let's pretend we had one. Clementine comes downstairs, vague and robotic, making her way through the decaying environment.
JOEL: I love you. She smiles. They kiss. It fades.
CLEMENTINE: EXT. BEACH - NIGHT Joel finds himself hurrying back to the bonfire. This scene, too, is disintegrating. It dries up and Joel is just standing there on a faded beach at night, the bonfire frozen in the distance like a photograph.
I: EXT. BEACH - NIGHT Joel finds himself hurrying back to the bonfire. This scene, too, is disintegrating. It dries up and Joel is just standing there on a faded beach at night, the bonfire frozen in the distance like a photograph.
CARRIE: Did you have fun? Joel nods glumly. Carrie continues to talk, but her voice goes under as Joel studies the faded husks of memories, piled like refuse outside the moving car window. He sees dried-out version of previous interactions with Clementine playing out in loops. He looks back and sees the memory of his ride home from the beach with Rob and Carrie. It, too, is decaying. Soon all has crumbled into dust. Everything goes black.
HOWARD: Stan turns and wordlessly begins the clean-up. He pulls the electrodes off of Joel's scalp, coils cable, packs bags. Howard dials the bedside phone. He waits as it rings.
HOLLIS'S VOICE: Hi, you've reached the Mierzwiaks. We can't come to Howard hangs up.
STAN: So, I've got to drop the van off.
MIERZWIAK: Thanks, Stan. Thanks.
PATRICK: You want to stop for coffee or something? Mary shakes her head "no." Long silence.
STAN: ( beat ) Do you swear you didn't know?
MARY: ( beat ) Do you swear you didn't know?
STAN: I swear.
MARY: And you never even suspected? Never saw us behaving in any unusual way together?
STAN: Once, maybe. She watches him closely, waiting for him to continue.
MARY: How did I look?
STAN: ( beat ) Happy. Happy with a secret. Mary starts to cry.
MARY: And after that?
STAN: I never saw you together like that again. So I figured I was imagining things. Mary says nothing.
MARY: Do you remember anything else? What I was wearing? Was I standing close to him? Was I leaning against his car like I owned it? How did he look at me when I giggled? Tell me everything.
STAN: ( thinking ) You were in red. That red sweater with the little flowers, I think. You were leaning against his car. ( thinking ) He looked a little like a kid. Kind of goofy and wide-eyed. I'd never seen him look like that before. Happy. You looked beautiful. You looked in love.
MARY: ( heading toward the levator ) Thanks, Stan. She stops but doesn't turn to face him.
JOEL: Hi. Naomi? Yeah, hi! How are you? I know, I know. It's been a long time. Not too much. You? Oh, that's great! Congratulations! Maybe I could buy you dinner to celebrate? Tonight? I'm free. Okay, good!
MARY: I need this signed, Howard. He takes it, unable to make eye contact. He signs it, hands it back.
MIERZWIAK: I don't know what I'm supposed say, Mary. I want to do the right thing here.
MARY: Do you love me? Did you love me? Something. I listened to my tape. I can't believe I've been sitting right in front of it for a year. It's like listening to someone else's story. I mean, I hear myself talking about having sex with you and I can't even imagine you naked. I can't even say "naked" to you!
MIERZWIAK: I have a family, Mary.
MARY: You made me have an abortion.
MIERZWIAK: It was a mutual decision.
MARY: You made me have you erased! I loved you. I love you! How could you
MIERZWIAK: I didn't make you. You thought it best. But, look, I take full responsibility. She looks at him for a long while. Then, out of frustration, she screams.
NAOMI: ( oddly cautious ) So. you haven't been involved with anyone in all this time?
JOEL: It's been a pretty lonely couple of I'm sorry.
NAOMI: I'm sorry.
JOEL: Well, it was my fault the break-up. I'm sorry.
NAOMI: Oh, sweetie. It really does cut both ways. We were taking each other for granted and
JOEL: I miss you.
NAOMI: Miss you, too. I have been seeing someone for a little Oh! Great. That's great!
JOEL: ( trying for enthusiasm ) Oh! Great. That's great!
NAOMI: A religion instructor at Columbia. A good guy. He's a good guy.
JOEL: I'm sorry. I really shouldn't have
NAOMI: I'm glad you called.
JOEL: So you think the dissertation will get I don;t know. I'm not sure there's a big public demand for books on Calvinism and INT. CLEMENTINE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT Clementine lies in bed with Patrick.
NAOMI: I don;t know. I'm not sure there's a big public demand for books on Calvinism and INT. CLEMENTINE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT Clementine lies in bed with Patrick.
CLEMENTINE: So you'll call me, right?
JOEL: Tonight. Just to test out the phone Joel exits. We stay on Clementine as she watches Joel head to his car, tromping through the snow.
CLEMENTINE: Tonight. Just to test out the phone Joel exits. We stay on Clementine as she watches Joel head to his car, tromping through the snow.
JOEL: Tonight. Just to test out the phone Joel exits. We stay on Clementine as she watches Joel head to his car, tromping through the snow.
CLEMENTINE: Tonight. Just to test out the phone Joel exits. We stay on Clementine as she watches Joel head to his car, tromping through the snow.
JOEL: Joel exits. We stay on Clementine as she watches Joel head to his car, tromping through the snow.
JOEL: Hi, Naomi, it's Joel.
NAOMI'S VOICE: How's it going?
JOEL: How's it going?
NAOMI'S VOICE: Good. I called you at work today. They said you were home sick.
JOEL: I know. I had to take the day to think.
NAOMI'S VOICE: Yeah, I tried you at home. Did you get my message?
JOEL: I just got in.
NAOMI'S VOICE: Long day thinking. Joel flips on messages with volume down.
JOEL: Yeah, I suppose so.
NAOMI'S VOICE: That's me.
JOEL: There you are. Naomi, it's just. I'm afraid if we fall back into this fast without considering the problems we had.
NAOMI: Okay, Joel. I suppose you're right.
JOEL: I had a good time last night. I really So I'm going to get some sleep. I'm glad you're okay.
NAOMI: So I'm going to get some sleep. I'm glad you're okay.
JOEL: We'll speak soon.
NAOMI: She hangs up and Joel stands there for a minute feeling creepy, then he dials the number on a piece of paper.
CLEMENTINE'S VOICE: What took you so long?
JOEL: I just walked in.
CLEMENTINE'S VOICE: Hmmm. Do you miss me?
JOEL: Oddly enough, I do.
CLEMENTINE'S VOICE: Ha Ha! You said, I do. I guess that means we're married.
JOEL: I guess so.
CLEMENTINE'S VOICE: Tomorrow night. honeymoon on ice.
CLEMENTINE: Don't worry. It's really solid this time of year.
JOEL: I don't know. She takes his hand and he is suddenly imbued with confidence.
CLEMENTINE: Isn't it? She runs and slides on the ice. Joel is by himself now.
JOEL: I don't know. What if it breaks?
CLEMENTINE: What if? Clementine lies on her back and stares up at the stars. Joel is paralyzed. He looks back at the shore.
JOEL: I think I should go back.
CLEMENTINE: Joel, come here. Please. He hesitates then gingerly makes his way over to her. She reaches for his hand and gently pulls him down. He lies on his back beside her, their bodies touching. He wants to turn to her, but out of shyness, doesn't. She holds his hand. They look up at the stars. She smiles, doesn't say anything and snuggles closer to him.
JOEL: Listen, did you want to make love?
CLEMENTINE: Make love?
JOEL: Have sex. Y'know
CLEMENTINE: Oh, um.
JOEL: Because I just am not drunk enough or stoned enough to make that happen right That's okay. I
CLEMENTINE: That's okay. I
JOEL: I'm sorry. I just wanted to say that. This seems like the perfect romantic exotic place to do it and
CLEMENTINE: Hey, Joel
JOEL: and I'm just too nervous around you right now.
CLEMENTINE: I'm nervous, too.
JOEL: Yeah? I wouldn't have thought that.
CLEMENTINE: Well, you obviously don't know me.
JOEL: I'm nervous because I have and enormous crush on you. She smiles up at the sky.
CLEMENTINE: Show me which constellations you know.
MONTAGE: We see people going to their mailboxes, finding manila envelopes. One by one they open the envelopes and pull out tapes. We see stunned, confused, disbelieving reactions as people listen to their tapes.
CLEMENTINE'S VOICE: Did you send this? Is it a joke?
JOEL: Did you send this? Is it a joke?
CLEMENTINE'S VOICE: I probably got the same thing as you.
JOEL: I mean, I haven't even told anyone I've met you. Who would even know to do this?
CLEMENTINE'S VOICE: ( matter of fact ) Maybe it's true then. It's my voice on the tape.
JOEL: That's what you have to say? How could it be true? I never even heard of any procedure like this. It's a joke.
CLEMENTINE: Maybe. Call someone who'd know.
MONTAGE: We see the people we saw opening envelopes, now on the phone. We hear over and over: "Is this true?", "Did this really happen?", "Do I know you?", "Is it true?"
CARRIE: Yes, Joel. It is true. We weren't supposed to say anything. They say it's like waking a sleepwalker.
JOEL: It's true.
CLEMENTINE'S VOICE: I know. I spoke to my friend Magda. Joel is immersed in the several page document.
JOEL: Look, I have to go. I have to think.
CLEMENTINE'S VOICE: Joel, we've fucked. We've made love. Like a million times. And we were so sweet and shy and inept with each other last night. Isn't that lovely? Joel doesn't know what to say as this registers. He just stands there dumbly.
CLEMENTINE: Says you were closed off, non communicative, never told me what you were feeling.
JOEL: Says you were a bully.
CLEMENTINE: ( laughing ) A bully? Moi?
JOEL: That's what it says. You drank too much, you picked on me for being passive and Well, sounds like me. Sorry, man. Says you were jealous and suspicious.
CLEMENTINE: Well, sounds like me. Sorry, man. Says you were jealous and suspicious.
JOEL: Says you would sometimes disappear all night, then brag to me about your sexual Did I use the term "sexual conquests" or is that your way of putting it.
CLEMENTINE: Did I use the term "sexual conquests" or is that your way of putting it.
JOEL: I don't know.
CLEMENTINE: Doesn't sound like me.
JOEL: Says you were a slob, leaving trails of panties and dirty socks in your wake.
CLEMENTINE: Says you were constantly calling me a It's sexy that we were like a married couple, griping and overly-familiar and bored. Don't you think?
JOEL: ( considering ) I sort of do. But I only see it as a fantasy version of reality. Cleaned up enough to be erotic.
CLEMENTINE: We should have sex. It's old hat for us. She smiles at nervous Joel.
JOEL: You're so beautiful. She approaches him, kisses him, his arms wrap around her waist for the first time.
RECEPTIONIST: May I help you?
STAN: I work here. I used to work here. Stan. Please just tell Howard I'm here to clean out my desk.
RECEPTIONIST: ( into phone ) Mr. Mierzwiak, Stan is here to Yes ( to Stan ) He says he needs to see you.
MIERZWIAK: She should not have done this, Stan. As mad as she was. as justifiably
STAN: I don't know what you're talking about, Mary has stolen our files and is sending them back to people.
MIERZWIAK: Mary has stolen our files and is sending them back to people.
STAN: Mierzwiak turns up the volume on a small video monitor looking in on the lab, where Patrick has clearly taken over Stan's position. He is in the process of interviewing a sad young woman.
YOUNG WOMAN: . so I called everybody I know and asked them to tell me everything. Now I know my entire history with him, but it's in the form of a story, I'm losing my This is why people must never be told. It's like waking a
MIERZWIAK: This is why people must never be told. It's like waking a
YOUNG WOMAN: I don't know what to do. Before I thought I was depressed for no reason. Now it's like I've been assigned a This never should've happened, ma'am. We'll take care of it.
PATRICK: This never should've happened, ma'am. We'll take care of it.
MIERZWIAK: I know you don't like me much, Stan, but please talk to Mary. She of all people should know this is a dangerous thing she's doing.
JOEL: Hi, it's Joel.
CLEMENTINE'S VOICE: Hey, lover. Whatcha doing?
JOEL: I'm just, y'know, passing the time best I can till I can see you.
CLEMENTINE'S VOICE: God, I can't believe I ever hated you.
JOEL: You must have been crazy.
CLEMENTINE'S VOICE: Guess what I'm wearing.
JOEL: I don't know. Panties and
CLEMENTINE'S VOICE: Your dried cum.
JOEL: You're still excited by my irreverence. You haven't yet started to think of it as my "gratuitous need to shock."
CLEMENTINE: You're still excited by my irreverence. You haven't yet started to think of it as my "gratuitous need to shock."
JOEL: I can't stop thinking about you.
CLEMENTINE: Yay. Meet me after work by the old mill.
JOEL: What old mill? Is that somewhere we
CLEMENTINE: I just wanted to say that. Come by my INT. MARY'S APARTMENT - DAY Mary opens the door. Stan stands there with two cups of take out coffee.
MARY: What do you want, Stan?
STAN: What do you want, Stan?
MARY: What do you want, Stan?
STAN: Can I. I brought some She steps aside for Stan to enter. He does, looks around, sees the tapes and the stuffed envelopes on the floor.
MARY: I know what it is.
STAN: I know what it is.
MARY: Then why did you ask me?
STAN: I don't know. I just there are a lot of really confused people showing up at the office.
MARY: They have a right to know. Howard is a thief. He steals the truth. I can't remember my baby! I can't remember my baby. It existed and I can't even remember. Do you understand that? Stan doesn't know what to say. He stands there dumbly. Mary slumps into a ball on a chair.
STAN: Mary, people come to him voluntarily.
MARY: I won't allow it. Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it. What do you think of that? That's from my quote book.
STAN: The office is filled with people who want their memories re-erased.
MARY: ( hysterically ) Remember the Alamo! Remember the Alamo!
STAN: Mary. please. This is hurting people. Long pause, then:
MARY: ( small ) I don't want to hurt people. ( breaking down ) But these things happened! All these little sadnesses, the big ones. What if no one remembers? What does that do to the world? ( beat, quietly ) Someone has to remember, Stan. They look at each other.
MAN: He won't bite. You can pet him if you Shot of the girl petting the dog.
MAN: Do you want to give him a biscuit? The girl nods.
MARY: May I help you?
DISTRAUGHT WOMAN: I'm here for Dr. Mierzwiak. My name is Helene Kernfeld.
MARY: Yes, please have a seat. The doctor will be with you momentarily. The woman sits. Mary presses an intercom button.
MAN: I.I. I. find you physically repulsive! I can't even look at you! They look at each other in silence. A little boy being called "faggot" by an endless succession of boys. The aftermath of a car accident from the driver's POV. Mary having an abortion.
OLD MAN: How are you today, Mary?
THE END: Writers : Charlie Kaufman Michel Gondry Pierre Bismuth
