SHOOTING DRAFT: INT. CAVE NIGHT There is a huge ancient hourglass made of animal skins, and acorns plop through the waist of the hourglass one by one. It sits in a pool of water. In the water swim EYELESS CATFISH in geometric patterns. An underground stream feeds the pool of water and then flows into a huge underground crevasse that on occasion emits a LOW RUMBLE. INDIANS with torches surround the hourglass, which now we can see is in a cave. And as soon as the acorns have finished passing through the hourglass, a crew of Indians turn it on its opposite end. One of the Indians appears to be JAPANESE. ONE INDIAN stands at the wall of the cavern in front of a series of symbolic carvings and scratches, with stone in hand he makes a few hatchmarks, and keeps an eye on the
ANOTHER INDIAN: She dreams of loving.
STILL ANOTHER: She has the blues.
BIG THUMBS: INT. RICHMOND VIRGINIA SUBURBAN HOME DAY We see CANDLES burning on a cake. It is somebody's birthday. And there are six candles on the cake. SISSY HANKSHAW is six years old. Her DADDY and a visiting UNCLE, finishing their rendition of Happy Birthday, are staring down at Sissy and looking at her young THUMBS, WHICH ARE UNUSUALLY LARGE and twitch with a mind of their own. She manages to blow out all six candles.
UNCLE: Well, you're lucky that you don't suck 'em.
DADDY: Sissy couldn't suck 'em, she'd need a mouth like a fish tank.
UNCLE: ( agrees ) The poor little tyke might have a hard time finding herself a hubby. But as far as getting along in the world, it's a real blessing that Sissy's a girl-child. Lord, I reckon this youngun would never make a Nope, and not a brain surgeon, Course she'd do pretty good as a butcher. She could retire in two years on the overcharges alone.
DADDY: Nope, and not a brain surgeon, Course she'd do pretty good as a butcher. She could retire in two years on the overcharges alone.
UNCLE: Course she'd do pretty good as a butcher. She could retire in two years on the overcharges alone.
DR. DREYFUS: She is, if I may speak frankly, somewhat of a medical oddity. Due to impaired dexterity, her life activities and career potentialities will be reduced. It could be worse. Bring her back to me if there ever is pain. Meanwhile, she will have to learn to live with them.
MRS. HANKSHAW: That she will. That she will. The Lord made them things big for a purpose. God don't never git tired of testing our kind. It's a punishment of some sort, for what I don't rightly Oh Doc, if a young man ever shows up here with, a young man with ugly fingers, you know, something similar, a similar case, Doc, would you Remember the words of the painter Paul Gauguin, dear lady. "The ugly may be beautiful, the pretty never." I don't suppose that means very much to you.
DR. DREYFUS: Remember the words of the painter Paul Gauguin, dear lady. "The ugly may be beautiful, the pretty never." I don't suppose that means very much to you.
MRS. HANKSHAW: It's a judgement. She's gotta bear the punishment.
MADAME ZOE: I am the enlightened Madame Zoe.
MADAME ZOE: There is nothing about your past, present or future that your hands do not know, and there is nothing about your hands that Madame Zoe does not know. There is no hocus-pocus involved. I am a scientist, not a magician. I, Madame Zoe, chiromancer, lifelong student of the moldings and markings of the human hand. I, Madame Zoe, to whom no facet of your character or destiny is not readily revealed. I am prepared to.
MADAME ZOE: Jesus fucking Christ!
MADAME ZOE: You have a strong will. Will power and determination are indicated by the first phalanx. The second phalanx indicates reason and logic. You obviously have both in large supply. What's your name, dearie?
SISSY: MADAME ZOE
MADAME ZOE: Hmmm. I'd say that you have an intelligent, kindly, somewhat artistic nature. However, Sissy, however, there is a heavy quality to the second phalanx- the phalanx of logic that indicates a capacity for foolish or clownish behavior, a refusal to accept responsibility or to take things seriously and bent to be disrespectful of those who do. Your mama tells me that you're pretty well behaved and shy, but I'd watch out for signs of irrationality. All
MADAME ZOE: I guess the most important aspect of your thumbs is the, ahem, over all size. Uh, what was it, do you know, that caused.?
MRS HANKSHAW: Don't know; the doctors don't know.
SISSY: Just lucky I guess.
MADAME ZOE: Do you study history in school? Galileo, Descartes, Newton? Lebinitz had very large thumbs; Voltaire's were enormous, but, heh heh, just pickles compared with yours.
SISSY: What about Crazy Horse?
MADAME ZOE: Crazy Horse? You mean the Indian? Nobody that I've ever heard of ever troubled to study the paws of savages. Well, I guess that about covers the three-fifty charge.
MRS. HANKSHAW: Mrs. Hankshaw withdraws a bill from her rat-skin bag.
MADAME ZOE: Beg your pardon?
MRS. HANKSHAW: Husband. Will she find a husband?
MADAME ZOE: Oh, I see.
MADAME ZOE: I see men in your life, honey. I also see women, lots of women.
MADAME ZOE: A husband, no doubt about it, though he is years away. There are children, too. Five, maybe six, but the husband is not the father. They will inherit your characteristics.
COWGIRL INTERLUDE: ( Delores del Ruby )
DELORES: I've traveled through the Yucatan with a circus, popping false eyelashes off a trained monkey with a bullwhip. When I ate peyote one night and had a vision. Niwetükame, the Mother Goddess, came to me on the back of a doe, hummingbirds sipping the tears she was shedding, crying 'Delores, you must lead my daughters against their natural enemy. You must come to the Rubber Rose Ranch and prepare for your mission, the details of which will be revealed to you in a third vision..' That night I whipped the shit out of my black lover and ran away. For a while I drove around, making a living selling peyote buttons to hippies, until I made my way
SISSY: Going north?
MAN: You bet your raggedy white ass I am.
MAN: ( taking an alarming interest in her thumbs ) American Cheese. The king of road
SISSY: American Cheese. The king of road
MAN: Are you in show business?
SISSY: I was a successful model once.
MAN: For magazines?
SISSY: I was the Yoni Yum feminine-hygiene Dew girl from 1965 to 1970, but got laid off.
MAN: So now you're bummin' around?
SISSY: I'm the best.
MAN: I'm the best.
SISSY: I'm the best.
MAN: You're the best?
SISSY: When I was younger, I hitchhiked one hundred and twenty-seven hours without stopping, without food or sleep, crossed the continent twice in six days, cooled my thumbs in both oceans and caught rides after midnight on unlighted highways.
MAN: As I developed, however, I grew more concerned with subtleties and nuances of style. Time in terms of M.P.H. no longer interested me. I began to hitchhike in something akin to geological time: slow, ancient, vast. When I am really moving, stopping car after car after car, moving so freely, so clearly, so delicately that even the sex maniacs and the cops can only blink and let me pass, then I embody the rhythms of the universe. I am in a state of grace.
SISSY: As I developed, however, I grew more concerned with subtleties and nuances of style. Time in terms of M.P.H. no longer interested me. I began to hitchhike in something akin to geological time: slow, ancient, vast. When I am really moving, stopping car after car after car, moving so freely, so clearly, so delicately that even the sex maniacs and the cops can only blink and let me pass, then I embody the rhythms of the universe. I am in a state of grace.
THE COUNTESS: I will send this out to Sissy, she should get it in a week, and you will be able to meet her. When I send a letter to Sissy, duplicates must be sent to U.S. Post Office Boxes in LaConner, Taos, Pine Ridge, Cherokee and that other place, for her to pick up. Why she's probably out there right now in Hibbing, Minnesota, or Deluth, Montana. hitching her way across the country.
SISSY: Right off, I don't remember how old I was when I found out I was part Indian. My mamma's family, a lot of them, had lived out West, in the Dakotas, and one of them had married a squaw. Siwash tribe. My pleasure in Indianhood and my passion for car travel might be incongruous if not mutually exclusive.... After all, the first car that ever stopped for me had been named in honor of the great chief of the Ottawa:
SISSY: NEW YORK CITY. It's still a helluva
THE COUNTESS: Sit down dear, do sit down. Take a load off those lovely tootsies. Yes, sit right down. Would you fancy some sherry?
THE COUNTESS: Take a load off those lovely tootsies. Yes, sit right down. Would you fancy some sherry?
THE COUNTESS: Shit O goodness, I'm all out of sherry; how about some Red Ripple?
THE COUNTESS: You know what Red Ripple is don't you? It's Kool-Aid with a hard on. Tee Hee.
THE COUNTESS: ( he toasts ) To my own special Sissy. Cheers! And welcome. So my letter brought ya flying, eh? Where were you? Salt Lake City? La Conner? Well, I may have a little surprise for you. But first, tell me about yourself. It's been six months, hasn't it? In some circles that's half a year. How are That's the very first time in the eons that I've known you that I've ever heard you complain. And now you're tired, poor darling.
SISSY: THE COUNTESS
THE COUNTESS: That's the very first time in the eons that I've known you that I've ever heard you complain. And now you're tired, poor darling.
SISSY: A born freak can only go uphill.
THE COUNTESS: Freak, schmeek. Most of us are freaks in one way or another. Try being born a male Russian countess into a white middle class Baptist family in Mississippi and you'll see what I I've always been proud of the way nature singled me out. It's the people who have been deformed by society I feel sorry for. I've been steady moving for eleven years and some months. Maybe I should rest up for a spell, I'm not as young as I used to Shit O goodness, you won't be thirty for another year, and you're more beautiful than ever.
SISSY: I've always been proud of the way nature singled me out. It's the people who have been deformed by society I feel sorry for. I've been steady moving for eleven years and some months. Maybe I should rest up for a spell, I'm not as young as I used to Shit O goodness, you won't be thirty for another year, and you're more beautiful than ever.
THE COUNTESS: Shit O goodness, you won't be thirty for another year, and you're more beautiful than ever.
SISSY: Does that mean you might have an assignment for me? You were the Yoni Yum girl from, let's see, from nineteen sixty-eight through nineteen seventy. You've always smelled so nice. Like a little sister. The irony has just killed me. You, the Dew Girl, one of the few girls who doesn't need Dew. I loath the stink of females! They are so sweet the way God made them, then they start fooling around with men and soon they're stinking. Like rotten mushrooms, like an excessively chlorinated swimming pool, like a tuna fish's retirement party. They all stink. From the Queen of England to Bonanza Jellybean, they stink.
THE COUNTESS: You were the Yoni Yum girl from, let's see, from nineteen sixty-eight through nineteen seventy. You've always smelled so nice. Like a little sister. The irony has just killed me. You, the Dew Girl, one of the few girls who doesn't need Dew. I loath the stink of females! They are so sweet the way God made them, then they start fooling around with men and soon they're stinking. Like rotten mushrooms, like an excessively chlorinated swimming pool, like a tuna fish's retirement party. They all stink. From the Queen of England to Bonanza Jellybean, they stink.
SISSY: Bonanza Jellybean?
THE COUNTESS: What? Oh yes. Tee-hee. Jellybean.
THE COUNTESS: She's a young thing who works on my ranch. Real name is Sally Jones or something wooden like that. She's cute as a hot fudge taco, and, of course, it takes verve to change one's name so charmingly. But she stinks like a slut just the same.
SISSY: Your ranch?
THE COUNTESS: Oh my dear yes, I bought a little ranch out West, sort of a tribute to the women of America who have cooperated with me in eliminating their odor by using my vaginal products, Dew spray mist and Yoni Yum spray powder. A tax write-off,
THE COUNTESS: Sissy, Sissy, blushing bride, you can desist from wearing paths in those forgotten highways. The Countess has arranged a job for you. And what a job.
SISSY: A job for me?
THE COUNTESS: I am once more about to make advertising history. And only you, the original Yoni Yum/Dew Girl, could possibly assist me.
SISSY: The Food and Drug Administration said Wednesday female deodorant sprays may cause such harmful reactions as blisters, burns and rashes. Although the FDA judges that the reported reactions are not sufficient to justify removal of these products from the market, they are sufficient to warrant the proposed mandatory label warnings.
THE COUNTESS: Shit O dear, that's enough to make me asthmatic. The nerve of those twits. What do they know about female odor? Don't interrupt. Here's my concept. My ranch out West? It's a beauty ranch. Oh, it's got a few head of cattle for atmosphere and tax purposes. But it's a beauty ranch, a place where unhappy women divorcees and widows, mainly can go to lose weight, remove wrinkles, change their hair styles and pretty themselves up for the next disappointment. My ranch is named the Rubber Rose, after the Rubber Rose douche bag, my own invention, and bless its little red bladder, the most popular douche bag in the world. So get this. It's on the migratory flight path of the whooping cranes. The last flock of wild whooping cranes left in existence. Well, these cranes stop off at my little pond Siwash Lake, it's called twice a year, autumn and spring, and spend a few days each time, resting up, eating, doing whatever whooping cranes do. I've never seen them, understand, but I hear they're magnificent. Very big specimens I mean, huge mothers and white as snow, to coin a phrase, except for black tips on their wings and tail feathers, and bright red heads. Now, whooping cranes, in case you didn't know it, are noted for their mating dance. It's just the wildest show in nature. It's probably the reason why birdwatching used to be so popular with old maids and deacons. Picture these rare, beautiful, gigantic birds in full dance leaping six feet off the mud, arching their backs, flapping their wings, strutting low to the ground. Dears, it's overwhelming. And picture the birds doing their sex dance on TV. Right there on the home screen, creation's most elaborate sex ritual yet clean and pure enough to suit the Pope. With lovely Sissy Hankshaw in the foreground. In a white gown, red hood attached, and big feathery sleeves trimmed in black. In a very subdued imitation of the female whooping crane, she dance/walks over to a large nest in which there sits a can of Yoni Yum. And a can of Dew. Off-camera, a string quartet is playing Debussy. A sensuous voice is reading a few poetic lines about courtship and love. Are you starting to get it? Doesn't it make the hair on your neck stand up and applaud? My very goodness gracious! Grandiose, lyrical, erotic and Girl Scout- oriented; you can't top it. I've hired a crew of experts from Walt Disney Studios, the best wildlife cinematographers around. You're my eternal favorite. Princess Grace herself couldn't be better, not even if she had your personality which she doesn't; Anyway, dear, I'm out of photography now and into water colors. Ah how circuitous conversation is! We're back at the beginning. The exact man I've wanted you to meet is my artist the watercolorist.
SISSY: If you don't want me to pose for him, why do you want me to meet him?
THE COUNTESS: Purely personal. I believe you might enjoy one another.
SISSY: But Countess.
THE COUNTESS: Now, now. Don't get exasperated. I realize that you've always avoided all but the most rudimentary involvements with men, and I might add, you've been wise. Heterosexual relationships seem to lead only to marriage. For men, marriage is a matter of efficient logistics: The male gets his food, bed, laundry, TV, pussy, offspring and creature comforts all under one roof, where he doesn't have to dissipate his psychic energy thinking about them too much, then he is free to go out and fight the battles of life, which is what existence is all about. But for a woman marriage is surrender.
THE COUNTESS: But here you are, still a virgin you are virginal yet, aren't you?
SISSY: Why, yes, technically. Jack Kerouac and I came awfully close, but he was afraid of me, I think.
THE COUNTESS: Yes, well, what I'm getting at is that there comes a time when it is psychologically impossible for a woman to lose her virginity. She can't wait too long, you know. Now, there's no reason why you must lose yours. I mean, just ponder it a bit, that's all.
SISSY: ( her brow spaghettied ) What makes you think this watercolorist and I would develop a romantic relationship?
THE COUNTESS: I can't be certain that you would. But what have you got to lose?
SISSY: Well, okay. I'll try it. I don't see the point in it, but I'll try it. Just for you. It's kind of silly, actually, me going out with an artist in New York City. However.
THE COUNTESS: Good, good, good. you'll enjoy it, you'll see. Julian is a gentleman.
THE COUNTESS: By the way, Sissy. he's a full blooded Indian.
COWGIRL INTERLUDE: INT. RUBBER ROSE OUTHOUSE DAY The Outhouse Radio is playing "The Starving Armenians Polka" and Bonanza Jellybean and Delores del Ruby are in the privy, caught in the rain.
JELLY: Well, I'm not scared of a little Me neither.
DELORES: Me neither.
JELLY: Might as well brave it.
DELORES: Right. I don't know about you but I'm sure not sweet enough to melt.
JELLY: ( musing ) Someday.. if that Sissy Hankshaw ever shows up here, I'm gonna teach her how to hypnotize a chicken. Chickens are the easiest critters on Earth to hypnotize. If you can look a chicken in the eyes for tens seconds, it's yours forever.
MARY: I want to complain that some of the cowgirls have been sleeping two to a bunk again, in violation of the agreement that "crimes against nature" are to be confined to the hayloft.
DEBBIE: I don't care who lay with whom or where or how, but the moaners, groaners and screamers ought to turn down their volume when others are trying to sleep or meditate.
BIG RED: I want to complain about the food around here! It's rotten to the core.
DELORES: My sacred crocodile! She's flipped.
ELAINE: I move that the meeting be adjourned.
DEBBIE: At the end of the endless game, there is friendship.
HEATHER: What the heck did she mean by that!
JELLY: Just that in Heaven all business is conducted this way.
RUPERT: We'd better take you home.
JULIAN: I beg your pardon. I've been enthralled with your photographs for years. When the Countess hinted that you might like to meet me he never explained why I was ready to paint for him free of charge. And now I had to go and spoil it.
MARIE: This is dreadful. You know, asthma attacks are brought on by emotional stress. Poor Julian is so high strung. The excitement of meeting you my dear, you look so stunning! must have upset his chemical balance.
RUPERT: Come on, Sissy, don't be afraid of I've never ridden in a cab. The whole idea of paying for a ride makes my thumbs hurt.
SISSY: I've never ridden in a cab. The whole idea of paying for a ride makes my thumbs hurt.
CARLA: It'll be all right, dear. It isn't as serious as it sounds.
RUPERT: There, that ought to beat them bronchial buggers into submission.
RUPERT: I was a medic in the Army. I really should have become a doctor. Sometimes, though, I feel that pushing books is a whole lot like pushing medicine. Think of books as pills. I have pills that cure ignorance and pills that cure boredom. I have pills to elevate moods and pills to open people's eyes to the awful truth.
CARLA: Too bad you don't have a pill for
HOWARD: ( changing the subject ) Where do you live, Miss Hankshaw?
SISSY: I'm staying with the Countess.
HOWARD: I know, but where do you reside when you aren't visiting New York?
SISSY: I don't.
HOWARD: You don't?
SISSY: Well, no, I don't reside anywhere in particular. I just keep moving. A traveler, eh?
HOWARD: A traveler, eh?
SISSY: You might say that, although I don't think of it as traveling.
CARLA: How do you think of it?
SISSY: As moving.
CARLA: How. unusual.
MARIE: How. unusual.
HOWARD: Rupert bites into his Scotch again. Julian issues a watery wheeze. Then, silence.
CARLA: Rupert, before you get too engrossed in your research on Scotch as a cure for aging, don't you think you'd better phone Elaine's and cancel our dinner reservations?
SISSY: No Indian blankets. no Indian
SISSY: Where are the others?
HOWARD: Oh, Rupert and Carla had a little hassle and went home.
MARIE: Julian fell asleep on the couch; we covered him up.
HOWARD: We thought that we should make you comfortable too.
SISSY: Yes, thanks.
MARIE: Mine are fuller but yours are more perfectly shaped.
HOWARD: Highly debatable. I'll wager they're the exact same size. Hmm. Yours are larger, Marie, but Miss Hankshaw's Sissy's are more firm. You'd think they would have started to droop; I mean, from not wearing a bra.
HOWARD: Hmm. Yours are larger, Marie, but Miss Hankshaw's Sissy's are more firm. You'd think they would have started to droop; I mean, from not wearing a bra.
MARIE: Howard! Watch your manners. You've made her blush. Here, Sissy, let me
SISSY: ( in ecstasy ) This place is finer than the place I
SISSY: So this is what it's like. so this is what it's really like.
JULIAN: Oh, Sissy. I am sorry about all the
JULIAN: ( with downcast eyes ) I apologize.
JULIAN: It is the measure of Western Civilization that it can encompass in harmony, balance off, as it were, such divergent masterworks as A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM and THE AMERICAN DREAM, as the dome of the Sistine Chapel and the ceiling of the Paris opera. What's the matter?
JULIAN: What's the matter?
SISSY: I'm cold.
JULIAN: Here. I'll turn down the air It's not the air conditioner that's making me cold. Nothing moves in here. Not even your birds.
SISSY: It's not the air conditioner that's making me cold. Nothing moves in here. Not even your birds.
JULIAN: What are you doing?
SISSY: Getting dressed. I've got to go.
JULIAN: But I don't want you to leave. Please stay. We can go to dinner. I owe you a dinner. And tonight. we can. really make love.
SISSY: I have to go, Julian.
JULIAN: Why? Why do you have to go?
SISSY: ( somewhat frantic ) My thumbs hurt. I've made a mistake. I've been negligent. I haven't exercised. I have to hitchhike a little bit every day, no matter what. It's like a musician practicing his scales. When I don't practice, my timing gets off, my thumbs get stiff and sore.
SISSY: I will hitch with you, out where tall birds wade in a lake named for my Siwash kin. Out where Smokey the Bear lay down his shovel to romp with more playful beasts. Out where starlight has no enemies and the badland wind no friends. Out where the boogie stops and the woogie
THE COUNTESS: So she left town. Well, that shouldn't surprise you. Leaving town is what Sissy is all about. But tell me, how did she strike you?
JULIAN: THE COUNTESS
THE COUNTESS: She's obviously that. Jesus! Which would you rather have, a million dollars or one of Sissy's thumbs full of pennies?
JULIAN: Oh, you! I'm not talking about her hands. They're difficult to ignore, I confess, but I'm speaking of her whole being. Her whole being is extraordinary. The way she talks, for example. She's so articulate.
THE COUNTESS: It's high time you realized, honey babe, that a woman doesn't have to give the best years of her life to Radcliffe or Smith in order to speak the English language.
JULIAN: Countess. I'm really in a dither. She's turned my head.
THE COUNTESS: Ninety degrees to the left, I hope. How does she feel about you?
JULIAN: I think she's disappointed that I'm not more, ah, sort of atavistic. She's got some naive, sentimental notions about Indians. I'm sure she liked me, though; but.. then she left town.
THE COUNTESS: She always leaves town, you dummy. That doesn't mean anything. What about in bed? How does she like it in bed?
JULIAN: How does she like what in bed?
THE COUNTESS: Like what?
THE COUNTESS: What do you think?
JULIAN: Well.. er.
THE COUNTESS: Shit O dear, Julian. Do you mean to tell me you didn't get it on?
JULIAN: Oh, we didn't get it all the way on.
THE COUNTESS: Whose fault was that?
JULIAN: I suppose it was mine. Yes, it definitely was my fault.
THE COUNTESS: What do they do to you boys in those Ivy league schools, anyway? Strap you down and pump the Nature out of you? They can even press the last drop of Nature out of a Mohawk buck. Why, send a shaman or cannibal to Yale for four years and all he'd be fit for would be a desk in the military-industrial complex and a seat in the third row at a Neil Simon comedy. Jesus H.M.S. Christ! If Harvard or Princeton could get hold of the Chink for a couple of semesters they'd turn him into a candidate for the Bow Tie Wing of the Hall of Wimps. Oogie boogie.
JULIAN: If we Ivy Leaguers aren't earthy enough to suit you hillbillies, at least we don't go around indulging in racist terms such as 'Chink.' Next thing I know, you'll be calling me 'chief.'
THE COUNTESS: Chink's the guy's name, for Christ's What guy?
JULIAN: What guy?
THE COUNTESS: Aw, he's some old fart holyman who lives in the hills out West. Gives my ranch the creeps and the willies, too. But though he be old and dirty, he's alive, I'll bet, clear down to his toes. They don't have his juice in a jar in New Haven. Well I suppose that I'll have to write Sissy out on the road.
WOMAN: Are you a pilgrim?
SISSY: No, I'm more of an Indian The trio doesn't smile.
DRIVER: She means are you going to see the Oh, I may and I may not. But seeing him is not my main objective out That's good. Because he won't see you. We came all the way from Minneapolis to see him and the crazy bastard tried to stone us to death
SISSY: Oh, I may and I may not. But seeing him is not my main objective out That's good. Because he won't see you. We came all the way from Minneapolis to see him and the crazy bastard tried to stone us to death
DRIVER: That's good. Because he won't see you. We came all the way from Minneapolis to see him and the crazy bastard tried to stone us to death
OTHER MAN: Yeah, but I no longer believe that guy's a master. He's just a dirty, uptight old mountain man. Why, he pulled out his pecker and shook it at Barbara. I'd stay away from there if I were you, lady.
MISS ADRIAN: By any chance are you Sissy Hankshaw?
SISSY: Yes I am.
MISS ADRIAN: My goodness. Why didn't you telephone? Someone would have driven into Mottburg to pick you up. I'm Miss Adrian. From the ranch. The Countess wrote that I should expect you. Get in, won't you? You must be exhausted. Gloria, assist Miss Hankshaw with her luggage.
MISS ADRIAN: Little twit. You really ought to have phoned. We were just in Mottburg escorting some guests to the afternoon train. More guests leaving ahead of schedule. Three checked out today. They decided to transfer to Elizabeth Arden's Maine Chance spa in Phoenix, Arizona. It costs two hundred and fifty dollars a week less at the Rubber Rose, so why are our guests leaving and going to Elizabeth Arden's?
MISS ADRIAN: I'll tell you why, it's that plague of cowgirls. They've gradually infiltrated every sector of our program. The one named Debbie considers herself an expert on exercising and diet. With Bonanza Jellybean's permission and against my explicit orders, she's been coercing the guests into trying something called kundalini yoga. Do you know what that is? It's trying to mentally force a serpent of fire to crawl up your spinal column. Miss Hankshaw, our guests can't comprehend kundalini yoga, let alone do it. Yesterday, she ordered a new cookbook by a Tibetan Negro, entitled Third Eye in the Kitchen: Himalayan Soul Food. God knows what that will be like. The little barbarians are destroying everything that I've built, mocking all that the company stands for. And there's a new one, one they call del Ruby. She has the good will of a scorpion. I've considered it prudent to avoid a confrontation that might further upset the guests. But now that the season is practically over we operate April through September and the Countess is finally coming.
MISS ADRIAN: We have a team of fifteen hair experts from all over the world.
MISS ADRIAN: And fanny flab flies off in this room at the rate of six hundred and seventy-five pounds a day. that's a lot of salted ham, Sissy..
MISS ADRIAN: Our special guest Miss Sissy Hankshaw is with us.
COWGIRL: Cool! We're going to make a movie!.
BIG RED: Get rid of the furniture.. it's too masculine. Get rid of all the furniture and use it for kindling!!! Break away from these pig-like chauvinist masculine influences..
MISS ADRIAN: O merciful Jesus! They're murdering the guests!
MISS ADRIAN: Where are the guests?
MAN: Take it easy, lady. They went on a short ride with the cowgirls. Rode over the hill yonder. You're Miss Adrian, aren't you? We need to talk to you about the filming.
MISS ADRIAN: Not now, you fool, not now. Those crazed bitches have led innocent women out and are slaughtering them at this moment. We'll all be killed. Oh! Ohhh!
CAMERAMAN: There's a slaughter going on all right, but it's not the fat ladies that are getting it. Your hired hands are killing the cattle.
MISS ADRIAN: The cattle? They're killing the cows? All of them?
CAMERAMAN: ( interrupted while putting a zoom lens on his camera ) That's what they said, Miss Adrian.
MISS ADRIAN: How dare you slaughter the Countess's cattle! What is a ranch without cows?
COWGIRL: We're going to replace them with goats. Most of the cattle are diseased and in pain. We're just putting them out of their misery. According to Bon-an-za Jellybean, the Rubber Rose is in-di-cat-ive of the Countess's values. He has purchased a cheap weak strain of cow to begin with and with improper care..
MISS ADRIAN: Oh heavens! I don't want to hear what Bonanza Jellybean has been telling you girls.. Come on Sissy. I'll show you to your quarters.
MAID: Excuse me, Miss. Do you care for your breakfast now?
SISSY: Yeah. I feel a bit hungry.
SISSY: Road food. How did you know?
MAID: Well it is a change of our usual grapefruit and melba toast, I'm sure.
SISSY: Bonanza Jellybean..
MAID: She will be up to see you directly.
JELLY: Welcome, podner. By God, it's great to have you here. It's an honor. Sorry I took so long getting to you, but we've had a mess of hard work these past few days and a heap of planning to do.
SISSY: Er, you seem to know who I am, and maybe even what I am. Thanks for the Oh, I know about Sissy Hankshaw, all right. I've done a little hitchhiking myself. Ah shucks, that's like telling Annie Oakley you're a sharpshooter because you once knocked a tomato can off a stump with a fieldstone. I'd heard tales about you from people I'd meet in jail cells and truckstops. I heard about your, uh, your, ah, your wonderful thumbs, and I heard how you were Jack Kerouac's girl
JELLY: Oh, I know about Sissy Hankshaw, all right. I've done a little hitchhiking myself. Ah shucks, that's like telling Annie Oakley you're a sharpshooter because you once knocked a tomato can off a stump with a fieldstone. I'd heard tales about you from people I'd meet in jail cells and truckstops. I heard about your, uh, your, ah, your wonderful thumbs, and I heard how you were Jack Kerouac's girl
SISSY: No, I'm afraid that part isn't true. Jack was in awe of me and tracked me down. We spent a night talking and hugging in a corn field, but he was hardly my lover. Besides, I always travel alone.
JELLY: Well, that doesn't matter; that part never interested me anyway. The beatnicks were before my time, and I never got anything outta the hippies but bad dope, clichés and the clap. But the example of your life helped me in my struggle to be a cowgirl. Tell me about it.
SISSY: Tell me about it.
JELLY: About being a cowgirl. What's it all about? When you say the word you make it sound like it was painted in radium on the side of a pearl.
SISSY: About being a cowgirl. What's it all about? When you say the word you make it sound like it was painted in radium on the side of a pearl.
JELLY: Cowgirls exist as an image. A fairly common image. The idea of cowgirls especially for little girls prevails in our culture. Therefore, it seems to me, the existence of cowgirls should prevail. Otherwise, they're being fooled. In the Rodeo Hall of Fame in Oklahoma City there are just two cowgirls. Two. And both of 'em are trick-riders. Trick-riding is what cowgirls have almost always done in rodeos. Our society sure likes to see its unconventional women do tricks. That's what prostitutes call it, you know: 'tricking.'
SISSY: You're political, then?
JELLY: No, ma'am. No way. There's girls on the Rubber Rose who are political, but I don't share their views. I got no cowgirl ideology to expound. "Politics is for people who have a passion for changing life but lack a passion for living it."
JELLY: Did that last comment sound too profound to be coming outta my mouth? It's not original. It's something I picked up from the Chink.
SISSY: Really? The Chink, huh? I've gathered that you sometimes speak with him. What else have you learned from the Learned from the Chink? Oh my. Ha ha. That's hard to say. We mostly.. Uh, a lot of his talk is pretty goofy.
JELLY: Learned from the Chink? Oh my. Ha ha. That's hard to say. We mostly.. Uh, a lot of his talk is pretty goofy.
JELLY: Oh yeah, now that I think of it, the Chink taught me something about cowgirls. Did you realize that cowgirls have been around for many centuries? Long before America. In ancient India the care of the cattle was always left up to young women they called gopis. Being alone with the cows all the time, the gopis got awfully horny, just like we do here. Every gopi was in love with Krishna, a good-looking young god who played the flute like it was going out of style When the moon was full, this Krishna would play his flute by a river and call the gopis to him. Then he would multiply himself sixteen thousand times one for each gopi and make love to each one the way she most desired. There they were, sixteen thousand gopis balling Krishna on the river bank, and the energy of their merging was so great that it created a huge oneness, a total union of love, and it was God. Wow! Quite a picture, huh?
JELLY: That couldn't be Krishna, could it? A bit shrill for a flute. Just our rotten luck.
JELLY: Gotta run now. Delores says I'm needed. Somebody's here. Maybe it's the Countess.
JELLY: Sissy, cowgirl history is about to be made. I'm damn glad you're here to witness it.
KYM: It's cute. Way cuter than a cow.
DEBBIE: Goats are always testing you. They're like Zen masters. They can tell instantly if you're faking your feelings. So they play games with you to keep you true. People should go to goats instead of psychiatrists.
GLORIA: It's so loving.
HEATHER: Look at those playfully wise eyes.
GLORIA: Ooo! It licked me!
JELLY: More and more people are discovering that cow's milk isn't fit for human consumption. Billy West says if we can produce enough goat's milk on the ranch to make it worth his while, he'll run it into Fargo regularly.
DELORES: I'm aware that Tad Lucas rode broncs until her ninth month, but I don't think pregnant cowgirls are going to be any asset on this ranch. I hope you itchy clits who are sneaking down to the lake every night are taking precautions. It's bad enough we've got cranes coming; we don't need storks. I feel that those film makers should be removed from the Rubber Rose as soon as possible. Men can cause nothing but trouble here. I also feel that our guest should be excused while we discuss this matter further.
JELLY: ..Delores zonks out on peyote at least once a week, but so far her Third Vision hasn't happened. Niwetükame, the Mother Goddess has not gotten back in touch with her. Meanwhile she and Debbie are rivaling each other like a couple of crosstown high schools. Tension. Cowgirl tension! What a drag.
SISSY: What is Debbie's position?
JELLY: Debbie says that if women are to take charge again, they must do it in the feminine way; they mustn't resort to aggressive and violent masculine methods. She says it is up to women to show themselves better than men, to love men, set good examples for them and guide them tenderly toward the New Age. She's a real dreamer, that Debbie-dear.
SISSY: You don't agree with Debbie, then?
JELLY: I wouldn't say that. I expect she's right, ultimately. But I'm with Delores when it comes to fighting for what's mine. I can't understand why Delores is so uptight about the Chink; he could probably teach her a thing or two. Ee! That grass tickles, doesn't it? God knows I love women, but nothing can take the place of a man that fits. Still this is cowgirl territory and I'll stand with Delores and fight any bastards who might deny it. I guess I've always been a scrapper. Look. This scar. Only twelve years old and I was felled by a silver
DELORES: He's here.
DELORES: Look at him. Perverse as a pink Sick as a vice squad.
BIG RED: Sick as a vice squad.
DELORES: He's in a snit. He wants to see you right after the barbecue.
JELLY: Get the girls. He's gonna see me right now.
JELLY: Any of you ladies who would like to join us, you're welcome to stay on as a full working podner at the Rubber Rose. Rest of you get packed and I mean now. You've got fifteen minutes to move your lard asses off this
MISS ADRIAN: You will all be rounded up and sent to prison if you take this any farther! This is not your ranch!!!!
THE COUNTESS: You pathetic little cutesy-poos. Do you actually suppose this exhibition of childlike melodrama is advancing the cause of freedom?
JELLY: You owe us this here ranch, as a token payment for your disgusting Then take it.
THE COUNTESS: ( tranquilly ) Then take it.
JELLY: Go for it, girls!
MISS ADRIAN: ( shaking her fist ) Go to your bunkhouse and remain there!
GLORIA: Better reach for your spray cans!
JELLY: Not one of these pussies has been washed in a week!
CHINK: Ha ha ho ho hee hee. Ha ha ho ho and hee hee.
CHINK: Ha ha ho ho and hee hee.
SISSY: Warily he stops and turns, poised to flee again. Sissy smiles. SHE RAISES her ripe right thumb. And jerking it and swooshing it, she hitchhikes the Chink and his mountain. THERE HE STANDS where Sissy's thumbs have stopped him. The Chink wears the wary look of a wild animal. He's not going to stay stopped long. It is Sissy's move.
SISSY: Well, aren't you going to shake your whanger at me?
CHINK: ( laughter dies a nervous chipmunk death ) Follow me. I'll fix you supper.
SISSY: I'm a friend of Bonanza Jellybean's.
CHINK: I know who you are.
SISSY: Oh? Well, there's been some trouble on the ranch. I came up here to get out of the way. It's so dark now I doubt if I could find my way back down. If you could help.
CHINK: ( voice that wears no pants ) Save your breath for the climb.
CHINK: Yip! Yip! Ha ha ho ho and hee hee.
CHINK: Personally, I prefer Stevie Wonder, but what the hell. Those cowgirls are always bitching because the only radio station in the area plays nothing but polkas, but I say you can dance to anything if you really feel like dancing. But I don't know how to polka.
SISSY: But I don't know how to polka.
CHINK: Neither do I. ha ha ho ho hee hee.
SISSY: ( thinking ) So this is how Jelly spends her visits to the Chink.
SISSY: What was that?
CHINK: The Chink pauses to decide whether he should talk any further, then proceeds.
SISSY: The Chink pauses to decide whether he should talk any further, then proceeds.
CHINK: The Clockworks is one reason that I am here on Siwash Ridge. I accepted the invitation to be initiated as a shaman by an aged Siwash chief who was the principle outside confederate of the Clock People.
SISSY: Siwash, huh?
CHINK: He was a degenerated warlock who could turn urine into beer, and the honor that he extended me gave me rights of occupancy in this sacred cave on this far-away Siwash Ridge. I came to the Dakota hills to construct a clockworks of my own.
CHINK: But unlike the clockworks of the Clock People, my ticks more accurately echo the ticks of the universe.. ..ha ha ho ho and hee hee.
SISSY: The Clock People?
CHINK: During the Second World War I busted out of Tule Lake detention camp; as a Japanese-American, I had been put there and watched over. I found refuge with the Clock People, who discovered me in a snow bank, near dead, I had been climbing across the Sierra Nevada Then if you are Japanese, then why are you called the Chink?
SISSY: Then if you are Japanese, then why are you called the Chink?
CHINK: The Clock People mistook me for Chinese. And the name stuck. In the same way that all Indian tribes came to be labeled "Indians" through the ignorance of an Italian sailor with a taste for oranges, it is only fitting that "Indians" misnamed me. The Clock People, however, are not a tribe, rather they are a gathering of Indians from various tribes. They have lived together since 1906.
CHINK: The pivotal function of the Clock People is the keeping and observing of the clockworks. It is a real thing, and is kept at the center, at the soul, of the Great Burrow. Insofar as it is possible, all Clock People deaths and births occur in the presence of the clockworks. Aside from birthing or dying, the reason for the daily visits to the clockworks is to check the time.
CHINK: These people have no other ritual than this one. Likewise, they have but one legend or cultural myth: that of a continuum they call the Eternity of Joy. It is into the Eternity of Joy that they believe all men will pass once the clockworks is destroyed. The destruction must come from the outside, must come by natural means, must come at the will of this gesticulating planet whose more acute stirrings thoughtless people call "earthquakes."
CHINK: The Earth is alive. She burns inside with the heat of cosmic longing. She longs to be with her husband again. She moans. She turns softly in her sleep. In the Eternity of Joy, pluralized, deurbanized man, at ease with his gentle technologies, will smile and sigh when the Earth begins to shake. I loved those loony redskins, but I couldn't be a party to their utopian dreaming. After a while it occurred to me that the Clock People waiting for the Eternity of Joy was virtually identical to the Christians waiting for the Second Coming. Or the Communists waiting for the worldwide revolution. Or the Debbies waiting for the flying saucers. All the same. Just more suckers betting their share of the present on the future, banking every misery on a happy ending to history. Well, history is ending every second - happily for some of us, unhappily for others, happily one second, unhappily the next. History is always ending and always not ending. ha ha ho ho and hee hee.
SISSY: What do you believe in then?
CHINK: Ha ha ho ho and hee hee.
SISSY: If this be adultery, make the most of it.
THE COUNTESS: Sissy, don't play dumb with me! You're a good model but a shitty actress. The cowgirls are involved in this whooping crane disappearance. You know perfectly well they are. Last seen in Nebraska. Didn't make it to Canada. Siwash Lake is between Nebraska and Canada. The cowgirls have possession of Siwash Lake. And who else but Jellybean's wild cunts could possibly conceive of doing something so diabolical as to tamper with the last flock of some nearly extinct birds? How much do you know about it? Have they murdered those cranes the way they murdered my moo I don't know anything about it.
SISSY: I don't know anything about it.
THE COUNTESS: Sissy. You're trying to protect those scuzzy bitches. Well, let your conscience be your guide, as my mommy used to say, but it won't work. Those stinking sluts are going to suffer.
THE COUNTESS: ( gasping ) Shit O dear.
SURGEON: Well, he's not out of danger, but I think we can safely say he's going to make it. I'd be pretty surprised if he didn't. However, there is evidence of injury to the frontal lobe, and I have reason to fear that this injury may be permanent. The patient may never again function as a normal human being.
SISSY: Brain damage? You mean he's going to be a vegetable?
SURGEON: Vegetable? Vegetable? I wouldn't say that, no. We won't ascertain the extent of the injury for some days. But there is a genuine possibility of severe and lasting behavioral defects. I wouldn't classify it in the vegetable category, however.
DRIVER: I'm going to give it to you like you've never had it before. Oh, you didn't know it could be this good. You're gonna like it. You're gonna like it. You're gonna like it so good. You're gonna love it so much you're gonna cry. You're gonna cry. You're gonna cry and cry. Do you like to cry? Do you like it when it hurts a little bit? Whatever happens to you, it'll be worth it. The way I'm gonna give it to you, it'll be worth anything. Everything. Go ahead and cry if you want to. I like it when women cry. It means they appreciate me.
BALTIMORE MD: WASHINGTON D.C.
RICHMOND, VA: EXT. DR. DREYFUS'S HOUSE DAY An older Dr. Dreyfus answers the door. Without Sissy's asking he speaks.
DR. DREYFUS: I'm afraid I can't help you.
SISSY: But Doctor.
DREYFUS: Please, child, don't be dismayed. We all have problems these days. But as the painter Van Gogh said, 'Mysteries remain, sorrow or melancholy remains, but the everlasting negative is balanced by the positive work which thus is achieved, after all.' I don't suppose that means very much to you. I have retired. A victim of a malpractice suit.
SISSY: ( embracing him ) Oh, Doctor! You've got to do it. You and nobody else should be allowed to take away my gift.
DR. DREYFUS: Ah, the thumb.
DR. DREYFUS: The thumb the thumb the thumb the thumb the thumb the thumb. One of evolution's most ingenious inventions; a built-in tool sensitive to texture, contour and temperature: an alchemical lever; the secret key to technology; the link between the mind and art; a humanizing device. The marmoset and the lemur are thumbless; none of the New World monkeys has opposable thumbs; the spider monkey's thumbs are absent or reduced to a tiny tubercle; the thumbs of the potto are set at an angle of one hundred eighty degrees to the other digits. And so you are demanding at last the privileges of thumb that nature has perversely denied you?
DR. DREYFUS: And so you are demanding at last the privileges of thumb that nature has perversely denied you?
SISSY: I just want to be normal, give me that old-fashioned normality. It was good enough for Crazy Horse and it's good enough for me.
DR. DREYFUS: Ah, yes. Very well, my dear. Here is what we can do.
JELLY: Yep, the whooping cranes are here all right. They're in fine shape, and as you musta saw from your fucking whirly machine, unrestrained, free to go as they please. But this is private property and you aren't laying a foot on it. None of you.
SHERIFF: We'll be back with a court order and a fistful of search warrants.
JELLY: Just come back with a couple of people who know what they're doing and we'll let'em in for a nice close look at the birds.
DELORES: And make sure at least one of them is female, and you better do as we say or there may be trouble.
UNDERSECRETARY: It will be my extreme pleasure to report to the President.
UNDERSECRETARY: .who has been gravely concerned about the fate of our whooping
UNDERSECRETARY: .and to the Interior Secretary and to the American people that the entire flock of cranes is, indeed, at.
UNDERSECRETARY VOICE: .Siwash Lake and in apparently healthy condition.
UNDERSECRETARY VOICE: ..The cranes have built brooding nests around the whole circumference of the small lake, and have.
UNDERSECRETARY: ..hatched chicks there. Counting the young birds, there are now approximately sixty cranes in the flock. While this is good news, it is also quite bewildering.
NEWS REPORTER: The Rubber Rose Ranch has issued a communiqué that was sent to the federal judge and copies of a recording to the press, today.
JELLY: ( over the radio )
SISSY: That's Jellybean!
JELLY: OBVIOUSLY, A PATERNALISTIC SOCIETY DOES NOT DESERVE ANYTHING AS GRAND AND BEAUTIFUL AND WILD AND FREE AS THE WHOOPING CRANE. YOU MEN HAVE FAILED IN YOUR DUTY TO THE CRANE. NOW IT IS WOMEN'S TURN. THE CRANES ARE IN OUR CHARGE NOW. WE WILL PROTECT THEM AS LONG AS THEY STILL REQUIRE
PROTECTION: INT. HOSPITAL RECOVERY ROOM DAY Sissy listens to the radio.
JELLY'S VOICE: WHILE WORKING TOWARD A DAY WHEN THE CREATURES OF THE WORLD NO LONGER HAVE TO SUFFER MAN'S EGOISM, INSENSITIVITY AND GREED. WE REFUSE YOUR ORDER. WE SAY TAKE YOUR ORDER AND SHOVE IT. THIS FLOCK OF BIRDS IS STAYING WITH US. GET LOST, MAC.
KYM: Man, this is the stupidest music I've ever heard. This radio should have stayed in the privy where it
SISSY: Kym gets off her horse and hugs Sissy.
KYM: You know what you're getting into if you come over to the lake.
SISSY: Yes, but I want to be there. I want to see Jellybean. I want to see the
KYM: We heard on the radio that the judge has set Delores's bail at fifty thousand dollars. Now she won't be here when we really need her.
JELLY: Let's celebrate!
AGENT: Ain't that just like women.
JELLY: Looks like every time we get together things are in a mess.
SISSY: So be it. It looks serious this time, though. All these guns. are you actually prepared to kill and die for whooping cranes?
JELLY: Hell no, the cranes are wonderful, okay, but I'm not in this for whooping cranes. I'm in it for cowgirls. If we cowgirls give in to authority on this crane issue, then cowgirls become just another compromise. I want a finer fate than that for me and for every other cowgirl. Better no cowgirls at all than cowgirls How did this business get started, anyhow? Why are the birds nesting You were aware that we were feeding them, weren't you? We fed them brown rice and they stayed over a couple of extra days. Then we decided to try something different. We mixed our brown rice with fishmeal whoopers love seafood, and fishmeal is cheap. Then Delores suggested another ingredient, and we think that's what did the trick.
SISSY: How did this business get started, anyhow? Why are the birds nesting You were aware that we were feeding them, weren't you? We fed them brown rice and they stayed over a couple of extra days. Then we decided to try something different. We mixed our brown rice with fishmeal whoopers love seafood, and fishmeal is cheap. Then Delores suggested another ingredient, and we think that's what did the trick.
DEBBIE: You were aware that we were feeding them, weren't you? We fed them brown rice and they stayed over a couple of extra days. Then we decided to try something different. We mixed our brown rice with fishmeal whoopers love seafood, and fishmeal is cheap. Then Delores suggested another ingredient, and we think that's what did the trick.
SISSY: You mean.
PEYOTE!: They're drugged.
SISSY: They're drugged.
JELLY: Aw, come off it, Sissy. What do you mean, 'drugged'? Every living thing is a chemical composition and anything that is added to it changes that composition. When you eat a cheeseburger or a Three Musketeers bar, it changes your body chemistry. The kind of food you eat, the kind of air you breathe, can change your mental state. Does that mean you're
SISSY: No, I guess not.
JELLY: 'Drugged' is a stupid word.
SISSY: But the peyote is obviously affecting their brains. It's made them break a migratory pattern that goes back thousands of years.
DEBBIE: The way I see it, is that the peyote mellowed them out. Made them less uptight. They were afraid of bad weather and humans. That's why they migrated and kept to themselves. But the peyote has enlightened them. It's taught them there is nothing to fear but fear itself. Now they're digging life and letting the bad vibes slide on. Don't worry, be happy. Be here now.
SISSY: Fear in wild animals is completely different from paranoia in people. In the wilderness ecosystem, fear is natural and necessary. It's merely a mechanism for maintaining life. If the cranes hadn't had a capacity for fear, they would have disappeared long ago and you'd be having to get loaded with common old everyday meadowlarks and mallards.
JELLY: This here discussion is destined to become academic. Because we've got less than half a bag of peyote buttons left and Delores's run ended up in the Mottburg jail. So any day now we'll get a chance to see how the whoopers behave when they come down, to see if the peyote experience really changed them or not. But in the meantime, I want to say this about
ANNOUNCER: Judge Greenfield, at the request of the ACLU, has granted a forty-eight- hour extension of the deadline by which the Rubber Rose cowgirls must comply with his order. Negotiations between the cowgirls and the government are expected to follow. Another item in, the forewoman of the Rubber Rose Ranch, a Delores del Ruby is now free on bond after having been arrested in Mottburg with more than fifty pounds of peyote buttons. Her bail has been paid by the owner of the besieged ranch, Countess Products, Inc. Miss del Ruby's bail having come from the tycoon's personal advisor, a certain Dr. Robbins of New York City.
SISSY: Dr. Robbins?
JELLY: Every time I tell you that I love you, you flinch. But that's your If I flinch when you say you love me, it's both our problems. My confusion becomes your confusion. Students confuse teachers, patients confuse psychiatrists, lovers with confused hearts confuse lovers with clear hearts..
SISSY: If I flinch when you say you love me, it's both our problems. My confusion becomes your confusion. Students confuse teachers, patients confuse psychiatrists, lovers with confused hearts confuse lovers with clear hearts..
DELORES: It isn't for ourselves that we take this stand. It isn't for cowgirls. It's for all the daughters everywhere. This is an extremely important confrontation. This is womankind's chance to prove to her enemy that she's willing to fight and die. If we women don't show here and now that we aren't afraid to fight and die, then our enemy will never take us seriously. Men will always know that, no matter how strong our words and determined our deeds, there's a point where we'll back down and give them their way.
DELORES: I'm prepared to win! Victory for every female, living or dead, who's suffered the temporary defeats of masculine insensitivity to their inner lives!
DONNA: I'll fight the bastards.
BIG RED: I'll fight 'em with bean gas, if
DELORES: The sun's going down. Let's those of us not standing watch get some sleep. In the morning we'll plan our fight. Tomorrow afternoon those of you who'd like can join me in the reeds, where the cranes and I will be sharing the last crumbs left in the peyote sack.
DELORES: It is woman's mission to destroy as well as to give birth. We will destroy the tyranny of the dull. But we can't destroy it with guns. Or whips. Violence is the dullard's Breakfast of Champions and the logical end product of his or her misplaced pride. Violence fertilizes that which we would starve. No, we will destroy the enemy in other ways. The Peyote Mother has promised a Fourth Vision. But it won't come to me alone. It will come to each of you, to every cowgirl in the land, when you have overcome that in your own self which is dull. The Fourth Vision will come to some men too. You will recognize them when you meet them, and be their steady sidekicks in equal and ecstatic escapades of poetic behavior and
DELORES: First thing, you must end this business with the government and the cranes. It's been positive and fruitful, but it's gone far enough. Playfulness ceases to serve a serious purpose when it takes itself too seriously. Sorry I won't be with you at the conclusion. As you know, I've been sick and stupid for a long time. I have a lot to make up for, a lot to accomplish, and there's someone important that I've got to see. Now.
JELLY: Well, what we got to do is one of us has got to go up that hill and tell them boys that America can have its whooping cranes back. Since I'm the boss here, and since I'm responsible for a lot of you choosing to be cowgirls in the first place, it's gonna be me that goes.
JELLY: No buts about it. It's getting lighter by the second. You podners keep your heads down. Ta ta.
COWGIRL: Jelly! Please!
JELLY: Better get rid of these. Might give those greenhorn dudes a fright.
AGENT: She's going to fire..
VOICE: You've got two minutes to come out with you hands over your heads!
JELLY: Right in the scar where I fell on a wooden horse when I was twelve. Haw, I wasn't really shot with a silver
JELLY: Or was I?
BONANZA JELLYBEAN: "Ha ha ho ho and hee hee"
A VOICE: The brown paper bag is the only thing civilized man has produced that does not seem out of place in nature. Crumpled into a wad of wrinkles, like the fossilized brain of a dryad; its kinship to tree ( to knot and nest ) unobscured by the cruel crush of industry; absorbing the elements like any other organic entity; blending with rock and vegetation as if it were a burrowing owl's door mat or a jack rabbit's underwear, a No. 8 Kraft paper bag lay discarded in the hills of Dakota and appeared to live where it lay. Once long ago, it had borne a package of buns and a jar of mustard to a kitchenette rendezvous with a fried hamburger. More recently, the bag had held.... love letters.
VOICE: As a hole in an oak hides a squirrel's family jewels, the bag had hidden love letters in the bottom of a bunkhouse trunk.
VOICE: Then one day after work, the button- nosed little cowgirl to whom the letters were addressed gathered bag and contents under her arm, slipped out to the corral.
VOICE: .past ranch hands pitching horseshoes and ranch hands flying Tibetan kites, saddled up and trotted into the hills.
VOICE: A mile or so from the bunkhouse, she dismounted and built a small fire; she fed the fire letters.
VOICE: .one by one, the way her girl friend had once fed her french fries.
VOICE: As words such as sweetheart" and "honey britches" and "forever" and "always" burned away, the cowgirl squirted a few tears. Her eyes were so misty she forgot to burn the bag.
DELORES: You know, podner, you can tune a guitar but you can't tuna fish.
DELORES: God, but it's good to be a cowgirl.
SISSY: Is everything getting worse?
CHINK: Yes, everything is getting worse. But everything is also getting better.
SISSY: The Countess has come to our aid. The Rubber Rose Ranch is officially deeded to all the cowgirls. And I have been asked to oversee the ranch. For $300 a week. And as it turns out, the Countess is not going to be the vegetable the doctors thought he was. here's a picture!
CHINK: I want to go back to the Clock People. I kind of miss those fool redskins and wonder what they're up to. What's happened to Jelly?
SISSY: She had a one way-ticket to Kansas You mean she's dead?
CHINK: You mean she's dead?
SISSY: But that's an old story now.. I can't believe that you would leave the Butte.
CHINK: Easy come, easy go.
DELORES: Wow, you sure have a way with words.
CHINK: I can't help it if I grew up in an antipoetic culture. Language will be different when I'm with the Clock People though. They're from an oral tradition. And I'm not talking about what you horny hop toads do in bed every night.
SISSY: Well, if the Clock People give you any inside information on the end of the world, drop us a postcard.
CHINK: The world isn't going to end, you dummy; I hope you know that much. But it is going to change. It's going to change drastically, and probably in your lifetime. The Clock People see calamitous earthquakes as the agent of change, and they may be right, since there are a hundred thousand earthquakes a year and major ones are long overdue. But there are far worse catastrophes coming. unless the human race can bring itself to abandon the goals and values of civilization, in other words, unless it can break the consumption habit and we are so conditioned to consuming as a way of life that for most of us life would have no meaning without the yearnings and rewards of progressive consumption. It isn't merely that our bad habits will cause global catastrophes, but that our operative political-economic philosophies have us in such a blind crab grip that they prevent us from preparing for the natural disasters that are not our fault. So the apocalyptic shit is going to hit the fan, all right, but there'll be some of us it'll miss. Little pockets of humanity. Like the Clock People. Like you two honeys, if you decide to accept my offer of a lease on Siwash Cave. There's almost no worldwide calamity famine, nuclear accident, plague, weather warfare or reduction of the ozone shield that you couldn't survive in that
CHINK: Suppose that you bear five or six children with your characteristics. All in Siwash Cave. In a postcatastrophe world, your offspring would of necessity intermarry, forming in time a tribe. A tribe every member of which had giant thumbs. A tribe of Big Thumbs would relate to the environment in very special ways. It could not use weapons or produce sophisticated tools. It would have to rely on its wits and its senses. It would have to live with animals and plants! as virtual equals. It's extremely pleasant to me to think about a tribe of physical eccentrics living peacefully with animals and plants, learning their languages, perhaps, and paying them the respect they deserve.
SISSY: How am I going to be the progenitor of a tribe when I'm living on an isolated ridgetop with Delores?
CHINK: That's your problem.
CHINK: Listen to the way I'm babbling. That bullet must have loosened one of my transistors. Don't pay any attention to me. You've got to work it out for yourself. The westbound choo-choo leaves Mottburg at one-forty. I want to be on it. Will you drive me to the station?
CHINK: Schedules! Ironic how I have to follow timetables in order to get back to the clockworks.
CHINK: Don't ever bet against paradox,
CHINK: ..if complexity doesn't beat you, then paradox will. Ha ha ho ho and hee hee...
THE END: Writers : Tom Robbins Gus Van Sant
