EXCALIBUR: Written by Thomas Malory
MERLIN: Lord Uther! Lord Uther!
MERLIN: It's done. A truce. We meet at the Talk. Lovers murmuring to each I spit on your truce, Uther. If you want peace, throw down your swords.
UTHER: ( disgusted ) Talk. Lovers murmuring to each I spit on your truce, Uther. If you want peace, throw down your swords.
UTHER: I should butcher all and every one of them. Merlin, what is this wagging of tongues?
MERLIN: Just show the sword.
MERLIN: ( waxing eloquent ) Behold the sword of power, Excalibur. Before Uther, it belonged to Lud, before Lud, to Beowulf, before Beowulf to Baldur the Good, before Baldur to Thor himself and that was when the world was young and there were more than seven colors in the rainbow. ( and in an aside to Uther ) Speak the words.
UTHER: ( bellowing ) One land, one king! That is my peace!
UTHER: Me, yield!?
MERLIN: ( a whisper ) He has given. Now you must. The land from here to the sea is yours if you will enforce the King's
UTHER: The land from here to the sea is yours if you will enforce the King's
UTHER: I must have her.
LOT: What? You're mad! What about the I must have her.
UTHER: ( oblivious ) I must have her.
LOT: And risk all you've won? This castle commands the sea gate to the kingdom.
UTHER: You will be mine. Wife and queen, bed and crown.
IGRAYNE: ( a fierce whisper ) I want no other crown and no other bed than those I have.
UTHER: ( bellowing in all directions ) Merlin! Where are you!? Have you found him?
UTHER: Have you found him?
ULFIUS: But he cannot finish. He is taken aback by the sudden appearance of a hideous hag who approaches, rattling a beggar's pan.
HAG: What a hurry you were in this morning, good sir. You forgot to give this old woman a coin.
ULFIUS: I saw you half a day's gallop from here. I asked you if you had seen Merlin. I returned here straight away. How did -
HAG: I heard. I have come. I am also
MERLIN: I have walked my way since the beginning of time. Sometimes I give, sometimes I take. It is mine to know which, and when.
UTHER: ( exploding ) Dumb riddles, Merlin. I am your King.
MERLIN: I know the storm inside you, and what it has wrought. The alliance I forged is wrecked.
UTHER: For Igrayne. One night with her. Do it. Use the magic.
MERLIN: You will swear by your true kingship to grant me what I wish. Then you shall have it.
UTHER: I swear it. By Excalibur and the What issues from your lust will be mine. Swear it again.
MERLIN: What issues from your lust will be mine. Swear it again.
UTHER: I swear it.
MERLIN: Uther starts to make the sign of the cross, but Merlin halts him with a gesture. Uther's hand drops, and he enters the circle with his horse. Merlin and Uther look out across the sea, to Tintagel Castle high upon the cliff. Merlin solemnly raises his arms toward that distant castle, and chants in an ancient language, the sounds of which he marries to the roaring and whining of the wind. The wind becomes stronger, and Merlin's incantations become more intense, and the wind in turn becomes wilder still. Until Merlin is charged with a fierce, nonhuman power, as the wind buffets his slight frame. And then, for all to understand:
MERLIN: I hold the balance of all things in my summoning. Arise mists. Come fog.
MERLIN: Mount your horse.
MERLIN: Ride straight to the castle, across the sea of fog.
UTHER: But the cliff, the sea.
MERLIN: Ride across! Across the bridges of desire. Your lust will hold you up. For I have just woven it into the fabric of the world. This is magic - making solid what is in the mind, and unsolid, that which is already
RIDER: ( calling ) Wake up in there. It is I.
MORGANA: Papa. Papa.
MORGANA: My father is dead.
IGRAYNE: Look, here is your father. It was just a dream, little one.
MERLIN: It is done. The future has found root in the present.
IGRAYNE: When did it happen? Where?
LIEUTENANT: In the camp of Uther, my lady, just after nightfall.
IGRAYNE: It can't be. He came to me, to his bed, last night.
LADY: It was his spirit, yearning for you in his hour of death, that visited His spirit?
IGRAYNE: His spirit?
IGRAYNE: Tintagel Castle falls to Uther. But what shall become of me, and the child I bear?
UTHER: I want her, Merlin. I cannot be without her. Tintagel is mine. Can I take her now? Tell me!
UTHER: ( bellowing ) Three horses died under me, so hard did I spur them here. Is it born? Is it alive?
UTHER: The ladies slip past him to the door, and he goes up to Terrified of him, Igrayne faces him the best she can.
UTHER: What is it, lady?
IGRAYNE: A boy, sir. Rest yourself.
UTHER: Send the girl away.
IGRAYNE: She is just a child -
UTHER: Igrayne draws the child to her and kisses her cheek.
IGRAYNE: ( whispering ) Go now. Come back later.
UTHER: She watches me with her father's
UTHER: Igrayne, is he mine, or - The night he died, a man loved me with great fierceness. He looked like my husband, spoke like, smelled like, felt like my own husband. But it was not he, for he was already dead. It wasn't his spirit, for this child, who was conceived that night, is flesh and blood. I know nothing
IGRAYNE: The night he died, a man loved me with great fierceness. He looked like my husband, spoke like, smelled like, felt like my own husband. But it was not he, for he was already dead. It wasn't his spirit, for this child, who was conceived that night, is flesh and blood. I know nothing
IGRAYNE: But he uses it before Igrayne can move. He severs the leather thongs that bind the iron breastplate to his chest. He casts it to the floor. His chest is smooth and milk-white in striking contrast to his creased, weathered face. And beaming, he holds the baby to it.
UTHER: Through him, I will learn to love them, for I am tired of battle. I will stay by his side and his mother's.
UTHER: Here. It's hungry.
UTHER: Merlin! Out of the sick sleep at Doing what I did for you, it wasn't easy, you know. It takes it's toll. It took nine moons to get back my
MERLIN: Doing what I did for you, it wasn't easy, you know. It takes it's toll. It took nine moons to get back my
MERLIN: Now you must pay me.
UTHER: The child is mine, Uther. I have come for him. The oath. You didn't say
I?: The child is mine, Uther. I have come for him. The oath. You didn't say
MERLIN: The child is mine, Uther. I have come for him. The oath. You didn't say
UTHER: The oath. You didn't say
MERLIN: You didn't ask!
IGRAYNE: Uther, is it true? Don't let him take the child.
UTHER: I swore an oath, Igrayne. I made a pact with Merlin.
IGRAYNE: It was you? You came to me that night. You are the father. It's not for you, Uther, hearth and home, wife and child.
MERLIN: It's not for you, Uther, hearth and home, wife and child.
UTHER: To kill and be king, is that all?
MERLIN: Maybe not even that, Uther. I thought once that you were the one to unite the land under one sword. But it'll take another, a greater king.
UTHER: You strike me with words as hard as They are not weapons, my friend, but truths. You betrayed the Duke, stole his wife and took his castle, now no one trusts you. Lot, Uryens, your allies will turn against you. Give me the child, Uther, I will protect him. Go back to your war tent.
MERLIN: They are not weapons, my friend, but truths. You betrayed the Duke, stole his wife and took his castle, now no one trusts you. Lot, Uryens, your allies will turn against you. Give me the child, Uther, I will protect him. Go back to your war tent.
UTHER: ( in torment ) By the oath, take the devil child. Take him!
IGRAYNE: WHY?. Why must he have the baby?
MORGANA: Merlin, are you now the father, and the mother, of the baby?
URYENS: ( to his men ) The King's sword. I must have it.
UTHER: Merlin, where are you? To weave a mist, to hide us.
UTHER: No one shall have the sword. No one shall wield Excalibur but me.
MERLIN: Into the spine of the dragon! Uther. I loved you, mighty child.
LOT: Let me.
SIR ECTOR: It is a dark hour. everywhere lawlessness and destruction, and no one to lead us out of it.
SIR ECTOR: Listen all. I am Sir Ector of Morven and these are my sons. You would wrong me, for I have never stolen from others, or destroyed the fruit of the land.
SIR ECTOR: The people's anger is just. It is sad that for our own safety, we will have to ride to the tournament with these robber knights.
BISHOP: This is Easter day, when Christ rose again. Who will find strength in victory of arms? Who will draw the
SIR ECTOR: Arthur, where is Kay's sword? A good squire doesn't forget his knight's
ARTHUR: I left it in the tent, sir.
SIR ECTOR: Well hurry then, and get it.
ARTHUR: It's been stolen..
SIR KAY: Father, I'll go and see what's keeping
ARTHUR: If only Kay could have it.
ARTHUR: ( breathless ) Your sword was stolen, Kay, but here is Excalibur. Is it too late? I
SIR KAY: Look, Father. Excalibur. Does that mean that I am to be king?
SIR ECTOR: Did you free the sword, boy?
SIR KAY: I. did, Father.
SIR ECTOR: We must go to the stone at once.
SIR ECTOR: Draw it, son!
SIR KAY: Sir, I didn't draw the sword. Arthur gave it to me.
SIR ECTOR: Arthur ?! How did you get the sword, child?
ARTHUR: ( frightened ) Sir. Kay needed a sword. His was stolen. I saw Excalibur, and. I took it.
SIR ECTOR: You freed it, son?
ARTHUR: I did, Father. I beg your forgiveness.
SIR ECTOR: Try the sword, Arthur.
URYENS: Stand back, Sir Ector, and take your We will try again.
LOT: We will try again.
SIR ECTOR: Let the boy try the sword.
BISHOP: Let the boy try.
SIR ECTOR: Go ahead, boy. Don't be afraid.
BISHOP: We have our King, thanks be to God.
ARTHUR: Please, Father, rise up. I was your son before I became your King. if I am King.
SIR ECTOR: My Lord, you are King, all the more because you are not my son, and I am not your father.
ARTHUR: Who is, then?
SIR ECTOR: I don't know. Merlin brought you to me when you were newly born and charged me to raise you as my own. At first, I did so because I feared Merlin, later because I loved you.
ARTHUR: Who is Merlin?
MERLIN: Speak of the devil!.
MERLIN: I am Merlin. Counselor to kings. Wizard and beggar. Prophet and. I have feasted on thunderbolts, I savored my death before I got myself born. I Whose son am I?
ARTHUR: Whose son am I?
MERLIN: You are the son of King Uther, and the fair Igrayne. you are King
LOT: Merlin, we haven't forgotten you. This is more of your trickery.
URYENS: You're trying to foist a boy of dubious birth upon us. You want to shame us?
LOT: Lord Leondegrance, join us against the boy. Surely you can see he is only Merlin's tool.
LEONDEGRANCE: No. I, Leondegrance, Lord of Camelyarde, saw the drawing of Uther's sword, and witnessed no trickery. If a boy has been chosen, a boy shall be king.
ARTHUR: .Merlin. Merlin.
ARTHUR: A huge eye opens in the foreground of what had appeared to be shadow, bark and tufts of weeds is really Merlin's head.
MERLIN: You called, sir?
ARTHUR: You saved me from the arrow.
MERLIN: ( a flicker of mischief ) But not from your destiny.
ARTHUR: I want to thank you.
MERLIN: That's not why you came.
ARTHUR: Merlin, help me. I need your help. I don't know how
MERLIN: ( irritated ) 'Help me, Help me.' Help me get up.
MERLIN: I'm tired. Doing magic takes its toll, you know. My arms ache Onceor is it yet to happenI stood exposed to the Dragon's breath so that a man could lie one night with a woman. It took me ten moons to recover. I'm sure that story would interest you, since. Well, we'll have to talk about it another time. You're too busy now. It is whispered in the forest that. .Leondegrance's castle is under siege by Lot and Uryens.
MERLIN: It is whispered in the forest that. .Leondegrance's castle is under siege by Lot and Uryens.
ARTHUR: ( pressing ) Yes, yes, I know that. Everybody does. Lord Leondegrance is my only ally among the barons and the great knights. I can't lose him.
MERLIN: Well there. You don't need me half as much as you think you do. You already know what must not happen.
ARTHUR: ( exasperated ) I must find the means to save him, then. I was hoping I could ask you for a little magic help, but if it makes you so tired.
MERLIN: Thank you.
ARTHUR: It's just that I have no experience, and no men to speak of. How can I
MERLIN: ( suddenly fierce ) Because you must! You and only you. Have you forgotten that it was you who freed Excalibur?
MERLIN: Besides, it will be a good lesson. The best, if it's not the last.
MERLIN: Maybe you'd like to meet the power that gave you the sword?
ARTHUR: How? Where?
MERLIN: In the great book.
ARTHUR: What book is that?
MERLIN: ( melodramatic ) The book without pages. Open before you, all around us. You can see it in bits and pieces, for if mortal men were to see it whole and all complete in a single glance, why, it would burn him to cinders.
ARTHUR: EXT. FOREST AND ELSEWHERE - DAY AND NIGHT A deep cleft at the edge of the forest, where far below lava boils with a phosphorescence that lights up a great cloud, billowing upward.
MERLIN: The dragon! There.
MERLIN: Coiled in the unfathomed depths, it
MERLIN: .It unfolds itself in the storm
MERLIN: .it washes its mane sparkling white in the blackness of seething
MERLIN: .its claws are the forks of lightning. its scales glisten in the bark of trees.
MERLIN: .its voice is heard in the
MERLIN: .it is so much more than a scaly monster. It is Everything!
ARTHUR: And if I am to be King of everything, lord and commoner, beast, leaf and rock, I must use its voice, its claws, its power.
GUENEVERE: Father, it's the boy King.
LEONDEGRANCE: It is. I will fight my way to his War-wise fighters, grown gray in battle, checkmated by a boy.
URYENS: War-wise fighters, grown gray in battle, checkmated by a boy.
LOT: It's Merlin's trickery, nothing more. I won't swear faith to that wizard's
ARTHUR: Let's finish this with a show of force. We have no more tricks and no more advantages.
GUENEVERE: EXT. OUTSIDE THE CASTLE - NIGHT The old knight rushes after the boy, sword drawn, to defend his flank, and the others follow, a battle cry issuing from them that is terrifying in its fierceness.
SIR ECTOR: No. Arthur
ARTHUR: You are in my hands, to slay or spare. I need battle lords such as you. Swear faith to me and you shall have Noble knights swear faith to a mere
URYENS: Noble knights swear faith to a mere
ARTHUR: You are right. I'm not yet a knight. You, Uryens, will knight me.
ARTHUR: Then as knight to knight I can offer you mercy.
MERLIN: ( to himself ) What's this, what's this?!
MERLIN: I never saw this.
URYENS: In the name of God, of Saint Michael and Saint George, I give you the right to bear arms, the power to mete justice.
ARTHUR: That duty I will solemnly obey as knight and King.
URYENS: Rise, my King. I am your humble knight, and I swear allegiance to the courage in your veins, for so strong it is, it's source must be Uther. I doubt you no more.
ARTHUR: With water from the spring, she is bathing a large cut on his chest that has been stitched closed. Wounds on his arms, and one on a calf also show evidence of her neat sewing. She's just finishing, and she dabs his chest with a dry cloth.
GUENEVERE: It didn't hurt too much, did it?
ARTHUR: I'm pretty good at stitchery. I've sewn my father's wounds more than
GUENEVERE: I'm pretty good at stitchery. I've sewn my father's wounds more than
GUENEVERE: Careful! You'll have to stay still for a few days or you'll tear them
ARTHUR: But I have to leave tomorrow. The forests are thick with rebels, invaders plunder our shores.
GUENEVERE: And damsels in besieged castles are waiting to be rescued?
ARTHUR: I didn't know Leondegrance had a Well, then, I shall tell you which knights have maiden daughters, so you can avoid their castles.
GUENEVERE: Well, then, I shall tell you which knights have maiden daughters, so you can avoid their castles.
GUENEVERE: No, I think it's better if you just stay here to heal. At least a week.
ARTHUR: I'm going.
GUENEVERE: Quiet, or I'll sew up your mouth
GUENEVERE: Would you rescue me from a fiery dragon, sir?
GUENEVERE: It's just a furry little rabbit that took the bait and sprung the trap.
GUENEVERE: You'll find him served up to you tonight, cooked in a most excellent
MERLIN: A king must marry, after all.
ARTHUR: .of course.
ARTHUR: I love her. If she would be my queen, my dreams would be answered.
MERLIN: ( mischievous ) There are maidens as fair, and fairer than Guenevere. If I put my mind to it, I could see them now, many of them, weeping for love of you, watching the hills for you coming from the high towers of their castles. Offering you their every favor. Rich, cleverbut if it is to be Guenevere, so be it.
ARTHUR: Who will it be? Put your mind to it, Guenevere. And a beloved friend who will betray you.
MERLIN: Guenevere. And a beloved friend who will betray you.
ARTHUR: ( smiling ) You're not listening. Your heart is not. Love is deaf as well as blind. They are only for you, for in them I mixed things that heal, but not too quickly; and things that make limbs sleepy, preventing escape, but keep one's mind sharp.
MERLIN: You're not listening. Your heart is not. Love is deaf as well as blind. They are only for you, for in them I mixed things that heal, but not too quickly; and things that make limbs sleepy, preventing escape, but keep one's mind sharp.
GUENEVERE: They are only for you, for in them I mixed things that heal, but not too quickly; and things that make limbs sleepy, preventing escape, but keep one's mind sharp.
ARTHUR: What's in them?
GUENEVERE: It is an ancient mixture, containing only soft, unborn grains, and flavored with roses. The rest is secret. Looking at the cake is like looking at the future. Until you have savored its bitterness and its sweetness, its texture and its perfume, what do you really know? And then, of course, it will he too late.
MERLIN: Looking at the cake is like looking at the future. Until you have savored its bitterness and its sweetness, its texture and its perfume, what do you really know? And then, of course, it will he too late.
MERLIN: Too late.
SIR ECTOR: He is the mightiest and fairest of We fought and won battles, and now one man defeats all my knights? I will go.
ARTHUR: We fought and won battles, and now one man defeats all my knights? I will go.
SIR KAY: A king must not engage in single contest. I'll go again.
ARTHUR: Where is Merlin?
ARTHUR: ( angry ) I should have left you to fend for I had to weave a little enchantment on the bees so I could get some honey, and I didn't feel up to using any more magic just yet. Anyway, I was in less danger than you'll be in
MERLIN: I had to weave a little enchantment on the bees so I could get some honey, and I didn't feel up to using any more magic just yet. Anyway, I was in less danger than you'll be in
ARTHUR: So you were stealing their honey. They should have killed you.
MERLIN: Come now. So much anger for such a little crime? Are you sure there is nothing else troubling you?
ARTHUR: You know full well there is, and I go to meet it now. Come witness my
LANCELOT: Good day to you, sir.
ARTHUR: Move aside. This is the King's road, and the knights you joined arms against were his very own.
LANCELOT: I await the King himself. His knights are in need of training.
ARTHUR: I am King, and this is Excalibur, sword of kings from the dawn of time. Who are you, and why do you block the way?
LANCELOT: I am Sir Lancelot of the Lake, from across the sea. I am the best knight in the whole of Christiandom, and I look for the king who is worthy of my sword's service.
ARTHUR: That is a wild boast. You lack a knight's humility.
LANCELOT: Not a boast, sir, but a curse. Never have I met my match in joust or duel.
ARTHUR: Move aside!
LANCELOT: I will not. You must retreat or prove your kingship in the test of arms, under the eyes of God.
ARTHUR: Then may He give me the strength to unhorse you and send you with one blow back across the sea.
LANCELOT: Hold! I offer you another lance.
LANCELOT: You joust well, sir. Battle learnt, but tournament fancy. You should ride more forward in the saddle,
LANCELOT: Yield. I have the advantage.
ARTHUR: I will not.
ARTHUR: Fight me from your horse or on foot, but fight me. Your avoidance mocks I sought only not to harm you, sir.
LANCELOT: I sought only not to harm you, sir.
LANCELOT: Sir, your rage has unbalanced you. It seems you would fight to the death against a knight who is not your enemy, for a length of road you can ride around.
ARTHUR: So be it, to the death.
LANCELOT: It is you, sir, who knows not the virtue of humility, as a true king
ARTHUR: What horror is this?
MERLIN: The sword is broken. Hope is broken.
ARTHUR: My pride broke it, my rage broke it. Humiliation and defeat lie in ambush even for a king. This excellent knight who fought with fairness and grace was meant to win. With Excalibur, I tried to change that verdict.
ARTHUR: I have lost for all time the ancient sword of my fathers whose power was meant to unite all men, to serve the vanity of a single man.
ARTHUR: I am nothing.
ARTHUR: Excalibur! Is it true?
MERLIN: The Lady of the Lake. Take it. Take it, quickly!
MERLIN: There are infinite worlds within the infinite coils of the Dragon. In one of them, which I have not traveled, the sword was forged. I only know that the King is returned to us through the instrument of his power. The game continues!
ARTHUR: Thanks to God, you are alive.
LANCELOT: ( sitting up ) I, the best knight in the world, bested! This is a great day, for my search is over. I love you, my King.
ARTHUR: You are still the best knight in Christiandom. You gained a hundred advantages over me. It is I who must love you, for through your courage and patience you taught me a bitter Then make me your champion and I will always fight in your place.
LANCELOT: Then make me your champion and I will always fight in your place.
ARTHUR: But your life and lands are far from I gave up my castles and my lands!
LANCELOT: I gave up my castles and my lands!
LANCELOT: My domain is here, inside this metal skin. And I would pledge to you all that I still own: muscle, bone, blood and the heart that pumps it.
ARTHUR: And a great heart it is. Sir Lancelot, you will be my champion.
LANCELOT: In the name of Jesus Christ and His holy blood, I swear eternal faith to Arthur, King.
KNIGHT: .We killed every one of them. Burnt their ship.
ARTHUR: Lancelot, how did you fare in the We spared the lives of a few, so they could sail home and tell their fellows what fate they met at the hands of King Arthur's knights.
LANCELOT: We spared the lives of a few, so they could sail home and tell their fellows what fate they met at the hands of King Arthur's knights.
ARTHUR: And you, Uryens?
URYENS: Lot, and you?
ARTHUR: Lot, and you?
LOT: We drove the invaders into the sea.
ARTHUR: You, Gawain, the East?
GAWAIN: The East is ours again.
ARTHUR: The war is over. One land, one King.
KNIGHT: Let me through. I fought the King's battle too. He must know my story.
MERLIN: Chaos. confusion. brutes. savages. troglodytes. Stand back. make space.
MERLIN: The moon. the sun. the stars. they spin. they turn. they circle. around us. us. You, and you, and you, take up your place. Be wedded to the world. Respect its perfection. All of you, together, be one.
MERLIN: You, and you, and you, take up your place. Be wedded to the world. Respect its perfection. All of you, together, be one.
ARTHUR: Your ancient wisdom and infinite sight have forged this circle, Merlin. Hereafter we shall come together in a circle, to tell and hear of deeds good and brave. I will build a table where this fellowship shall meet. And a hall around the table. And a castle about the hall.
ARTHUR: And I will marry.
ARTHUR: And the land will have an heir to wield Excalibur.
ARTHUR: Knights of the Round Table, good friends, brothers in arms. I send you on a quest harder by far than the battles we have fought together, a quest to uphold always, and everywhere, justice, honor, and truth. Each day shall bring forth a cause, and may each cause bring forth a
LANCELOT: I swear never to rest twice on the same pillow till all men live at
KNIGHT: Good day, sir.
LANCELOT: Good day to you.
LANCELOT: I hear the stifled cry for help, I smell the reek of fear.
LANCELOT: These men repented before God for their evil deeds. Those who would not, met their fate at the end of my Accept the fruit of my first quest as my wedding gift.
ARTHUR: I do. Rise, Lancelot, come with me.
ARTHUR: Sit beside me, Lancelot.
ARTHUR: Your deeds set an example for all other knights. For your gift, ask a gift of me.
LANCELOT: Only give me leave to ride out again, to do what I am most able to do, and happiest doing.
GUENEVERE: ( to Arthur ) He must stay for the feasting days of our wedding, and tell his deeds ( to Lancelot, smiling ) I grant you your wish if you grant Lady Guenevere hers.
ARTHUR: ( to Lancelot, smiling ) I grant you your wish if you grant Lady Guenevere hers.
LANCELOT: I will stay Madame.
MERLIN: The knights of Galys approach the camp. It would be politic.
ARTHUR: .to ride out and meet them.
ARTHUR: I will ride with Sir Kay. Lancelot, rest here.
GUENEVERE: Don't start a war on my wedding day!
ARTHUR: Without Lancelot?!
GUENEVERE: Look Lancelot. The maids and ladies whisper about you. They all dream of winning you, young and old, fair and
GUENEVERE: But surely that's no secret to you, dear Lancelot. You're the bravest and strongest knight they've ever seen, and beauty has kissed your
GUENEVERE: The well-kept secret is whether any of them has won your heart.
LANCELOT: I am a fighting man and I am married to the quest. That is enough.
GUENEVERE: I am a fighting man and I am married to the quest. That is enough.
LANCELOT: I am a fighting man and I am married to the quest. That is enough.
GUENEVERE: And there is no maiden in the whole world who inspires you?
LANCELOT: There is one.
GUENEVERE: Yes. I would swear my love to you.
LANCELOT: Yes. I would swear my love to you.
GUENEVERE: Yes. I would swear my love to you.
LANCELOT: Yes. I would swear my love to you.
GUENEVERE: To me? But why?
LANCELOT: I cannot love as a woman the lady who will be wife to my King and my friend. And, in pledging my love to you, I cannot love any other woman.
LANCELOT: I will see you in all women, and I will defend them as I would defend
LANCELOT: Lord Merlin, are you ill?
MERLIN: No, no, I need air.
URYENS: Merlin, don't you join the
URYENS: My wife, Merlin. Lady Morgana of I remember you, Merlin. I was a child. You took my brother away.
MORGANA: I remember you, Merlin. I was a child. You took my brother away.
MERLIN: You left your husband's side? You left your brother's wedding?
MORGANA: Is that Mandrake, Lord Merlin?
MERLIN: It is.
MORGANA: Can it truly be used for magic?
MERLIN: Yes. sometimes.
MERLIN: .There are many powers in this
BISHOP: Drink this the blood of Jesus Christ our Lord.
PERCEVAL: ( to the rabbit ) Sorry. Hungry.
PERCEVAL: ( stuttering ) Have I taken too much?
PERCEVAL: ( desperately trying to ingratiate ) I had rabbit yesterday. Today I'll eat fish. No?
LANCELOT: Don't be afraid.
PERCEVAL: You're an angel! Not a devil.
LANCELOT: Just a man. A knight in the King's You're a man?! .with metal skin!
PERCEVAL: You're a man?! .with metal skin!
PERCEVAL: Can I grow metal skin?
LANCELOT: You've got a lot to learn.
PERCEVAL: I'll learn. take me. to the King. What's a. King?
LANCELOT: Very well. Climb up.
PERCEVAL: I will run.
LANCELOT: Listen, boy, it's more than twenty days from here.
PERCEVAL: Twenty days!? The world is that big?
PERCEVAL: Who will give me my sword? Kitchen knives and greasy spits will be your weapons, boy.
KAY: Kitchen knives and greasy spits will be your weapons, boy.
FAT MAN: I brew ale, sirfrom old shoesI am an honest tradesman sir. I must sell what I produce. He won't buy ale and he won't pay. Pay up! He leans over the barrel and sucks in the vapors. The vapors are mine.
THIN MAN: How would you know I, sir, have the misfortune to live next to this criminal. What loss in that? Not to me! Pay for what? Why?! They are floating on the wind.
ARTHUR: Enough!. What is a fair price for the smell of your ale?
FAT MAN: That's why we have come to you, sir There's no one else who can tell us.
ARTHUR: What does it cost to get drunk on your ale?
FAT MAN: At least three shillings, sir.
ARTHUR: Give me three shillings.
ARTHUR: For the smell of your ale, the jingle of his coins.
MORGANA: What did I see today in the wizard's eyes? Censure, because I enjoy a few words with a young handsome knight?
MERLIN: No, no, of course not. You are I'm not jealous!
MERLIN: I'm not jealous!
MORGANA: It's clear you are, and it irks me.
MERLIN: No. Yes, I am. I am jealous. I want to write poems about you with moonbeams, make the sea sing your A lovestruck page!
MORGANA: A lovestruck page!
MERLIN: Shh. yes, yes. Sit with me, please. Morgana.
MORGANA: A steamy, panting, lovestruck page. But what good are songs and poems to me? They are the barter of ordinary love. A gift that reflected your greatness is the only one worthy of your love.
MERLIN: I showed you all my conjuring The deepest secrets, the forbidden Maybe. maybe.
MORGANA: The deepest secrets, the forbidden Maybe. maybe.
MERLIN: Maybe. maybe.
ARTHUR: Merlin, are you counselor to the King, or to my sister?
MERLIN: At your service, sir.
ARTHUR: Then answer me this. For years peace has reigned in the land. Crops grow in abundance, there is no want. Every one of my subjects enjoys his portion of happiness and justice, even those whose tiresome misunderstandings we must resolve here each day. Tell me, Merlin: have we defeated evil, as it Good and evil; there is never one without the other.
MERLIN: Good and evil; there is never one without the other.
ARTHUR: Where hides evil, then, in my kingdom?
MERLIN: Never where you expect it, that's all I know.
SIR GAHALT: If we have peace and justice, why is Lancelot never with us? Why is he always riding out on his quests? He must know where this evil is.
SIR GAWAIN: Could there be evil within Lancelot himself? To live above human folly, as is his aim, is to be overly proud.
SIR GAHALT: He pays no heed even to the Queens longing for his company.
GUENEVERE: ( lashing out ) What is it you would have your words mean, Sir Gahalt?
MORGANA: Don't listen to him. You are the
ARTHUR: Sir Gahalt, answer the Queen.
GUENEVERE: No. I meant not to be angry with you, Sir Gahalt. In the idleness that comes with peace gossip has bread its own evil. You merely repeat it. Please, sir, have one of those apples that Lancelot loves, and in that gesture partake of its goodness.
GUENEVERE: Take one, Sir Gahalt.
SIR GAHALT: I am most honored, my lady.
SIR GAWAIN: Hear me, Lord Arthur, and knights and chieftains: I charge Guenevere with the murder of my brother.
GUENEVERE: I didn't. I am innocent. I champion this truth: That Queen Guenevere murdered Sir Gahalt with the aid of sorcery.
SIR GAWAIN: I champion this truth: That Queen Guenevere murdered Sir Gahalt with the aid of sorcery.
ARTHUR: The Queen will be in my charge till a champion steps forward to fight on her behalf.
GUENEVERE: Not you, my husband?
SIR GAWAIN: She must be burnt at the stake. That is the sentence for murder done with It is. Lords and knights of the Round Table, as her husband I say that this deed was not done by Guenevere. Who among you will champion this
ARTHUR: It is. Lords and knights of the Round Table, as her husband I say that this deed was not done by Guenevere. Who among you will champion this
ARTHUR: Sir Caradoc! You!
CARADOC: I am torn.
PERCEVAL: I will champion you, my lady.
GUENEVERE: I thank you, but you are not yet a I will find Lancelot! He will come! Boys!. boys will be boys.
PERCEVAL: I will find Lancelot! He will come! Boys!. boys will be boys.
MERLIN: Boys!. boys will be boys.
PERCEVAL: I have found you. The Queen. An apple. Tomorrow. Sir Gawain.
LANCELOT: It must wait, child. These good ladies, for whom I intervened once, will honor me with a meal. I am beholden to them now as I was when they begged my protection.
GUENEVERE: Why can't you be my champion?
ARTHUR: If I am your judge, I cannot be your champion. When I act as your King, I cannot be your husband.
GUENEVERE: And you cannot love me.
ARTHUR: The laws, my laws, must bind everyone, high and low, or they are not laws at all. Lancelot will come.
GUENEVERE: And if he cannot be found, no other knight will champion me, though you beseeched each and every one of them. Why be king if there is no one you can call loyal subject but an eager
LANCELOT: Guenevere, I fight against myself.
ARTHUR: Is he coming?
PERCEVAL: He heard Lady Guenevere's request and he said nothing. That is all.
SIR GAWAIN: My Lord, the sun is upon the field. The Queen has no champion. I demand justice, as is my right.
ARTHUR: So it is.
PERCEVAL: Let me champion the Queen!
SIR GAWAIN: ( to Arthur ) Since no knight comes forward, I demand justice
ARTHUR: Boy, kneel.
ARTHUR: In the name of God, of St. Michael, and St. George, I make you a knight. Rise, Sir.
PERCEVAL: Gawain shakes his head disdainfully as Perceval mounts back into the saddle, his eyes burning with fervor. Sir Gawain and Perceval ride to opposite ends of the field. The spectators fall silent, all staring blankly, their senses dulled by the tragedy, at the uneven combatants. A cry goes up. Lancelot rides out of the forest. He rides up to the King and salutes him. Arthur smiles at his old friend, tears of joy in his eyes. Lancelot bows toward Guenevere and rides on to where Perceval waits. Lancelot reaches out to touch Perceval's cheek.
LANCELOT: It's my task to prove the Queen's
SIR GAWAIN: The Queen is innocent. I yield to your mercy, Sir Lancelot.
MERLIN: Flesh on flesh. You must press on the wound, Guenevere, hold it, and it will begin to bind.
ARTHUR: Merlin, tell me. Now that Guenevere is returned to me.
MERLIN: What is it my child? Will I have a son?
ARTHUR: Will I have a son?
MERLIN: Just yes? No mad laughter, no riddles, nothing but a simple yes? That frightens me.
ARTHUR: Just yes? No mad laughter, no riddles, nothing but a simple yes? That frightens me.
MERLIN: A king should be afraid, always. The enemy is everywhere. Waiting in ambush in the dark corridors of his castle, on the deer paths of his forest, or in the gray and winding paths of a more tangled forest, in here.
GUENEVERE: Flesh on flesh. I will heal you.
ARTHUR: They miss the battlefield. I think we do too.
LANCELOT: But one can still keep a sword sharp riding out in the name of the King's
ARTHUR: It is not easy for the young ones to learn knightly virtues without the hard teaching of war and quest. It is only your example, Lancelot, that binds them now.
ARTHUR: Which is the greatest quality of knighthood? Courage? Compassion? Loyalty? Humility? What do you say,
MERLIN: ( then seeing he has an audience ) The greatest? They blend together like the metals we mix to make a good sword.
ARTHUR: I didn't ask for poetry. Which is
MERLIN: All right. Truth. It must be truth, above all. When a man lies he murders some part of the world.
LANCELOT: Conversation and court life don't suit me. I must take my rest in the
ARTHUR: Hasn't Merlin mended your wound?
LANCELOT: It is deep.
ARTHUR: You will be sorely missed. Heal yourself and come back.
LANCELOT: Why? You will destroy Arthur, and
LANCELOT: The law forbids it.
GUENEVERE: Love demands it.
LANCELOT: There are things about love
GUENEVERE: He steps back, drawing his sword. He holds it up by the blade between them.
LANCELOT: By my knight's sword, I swore faith
LANCELOT: He folds her in his arm, and their bodies lock together as though a trap had sprung. Their mouths meet, each devouring the other.
ARTHUR: I am alone and betrayed. By my wife, by my beloved friend, by my knights. And by you. Perhaps most of all by you. For you made me, you forged this wretched life. And like a child tired of a toy, you toss me aside, a babbling lecher trotting after my That is my destiny. I have a destiny, With all your powers, you are content to be ridiculed, laughed at.
MERLIN: That is my destiny. I have a destiny, With all your powers, you are content to be ridiculed, laughed at.
ARTHUR: With all your powers, you are content to be ridiculed, laughed at.
MERLIN: My powers fade, Arthur. I resort to cheap tricks. Yes! I enjoy every moment of my foolishness, I join in the making of it, so no one can betray me. But you! You betray yourself.
ARTHUR: Me? I have lived by the oath of king and knight.
MERLIN: You betray the boy who drew the sword, the boy who saw the Dragon. the Dragon who moves close by, coiling and uncoiling, restless, looking down, waiting for the King to be a
ARTHUR: I must do it myself. I must kill them both. Lancelot and Guenevere. Will you ride with me, Merlin?
MERLIN: I cannot. I must not. Here I must
MORGANA: Crazy old fool. You think yourself a kingmaker. Ha! A meddler, more likely. Look what a mess you've made of
MERLIN: I? Perhaps, perhaps. I'm losing interest, Morgana. I have helped menor meddled in their affairs, if you would have it that waysince the dawn of time. Now let them live by their own laws. Let them stand on their own feet. The gods of once are gone forever, it is time for men. Morgana, make a man out of me. Kiss
MORGANA: You know what I want. I want the secret of true magic, how to thicken the stuff of dreams and wishes with the flesh of the world.
MERLIN: That I cannot.
MORGANA: Then I will not.
LANCELOT: Why didn't he kill us?
GUENEVERE: He has given up.
LANCELOT: The King without his sword, the land without a king.
GUENEVERE: We are to blame.
MERLIN: When Arthur built the castle, I carved out a place for myself, where I could laugh or sleep, and no one would bother me.
MORGANA: People make you laugh?
MERLIN: They do.
MORGANA: He leans close to her ear, whispering into it.
MERLIN: They don't know how close they live to the edge of delight or disas.
MERLIN: Happiness or horror.
MERLIN: In the folds of the earth where the forces that hold the world together are more alive, my power is strongest. Here I will possess you, as a man possesses a woman. And the god, the eunuch, the mule that I was, will be no more.
MORGANA: You are truly magnificent!
MERLIN: Flattery! Do you think I am ignorant of your stupid little games? Preying on you weakness of others. That's your power, a petty evil. Mine is great. Great plans. Impossible dreams. Laughable endings. Merlin, the powers of Summoning, the true Name of the charms of Doing and Undoing. Show me!
MORGANA: Merlin, the powers of Summoning, the true Name of the charms of Doing and Undoing. Show me!
MERLIN: I won't. You would misuse such power. I have paid enough for you, and I will have you.
MORGANA: Make magic, my foolish wizard. For our love. Weave a marvelous room around us, a room worthy of our
MERLIN: What do you want? You must desire it for me to weave it.
MORGANA: Walls of shining crystals, burning with red fire, furnishings of metals and jewels never seen by man.
MERLIN: Desire it and it will be as you It's only a semblance. You disappoint
MORGANA: It's only a semblance. You disappoint
MERLIN: Don't touch the walls. Come close to
MORGANA: Do it, Merlin, the deepest secret. Fix it with the charm of Making, for our endless pleasure.
MERLIN: For you.
ARTHUR: Has no one seen Merlin?
KNIGHT: Did you see? The King was without
MORGANA: I'll weep for you, brother, for a King must not weep.
MORGANA: Do you know what Guenevere's maids have whispered?
MORGANA: That when the King returned from .Guenevere would unlace his armor and massage the burns where metal rubbed on flesh.
MORGANA: .Guenevere would unlace his armor and massage the burns where metal rubbed on flesh.
MORGANA: .She would prepare a bath for you, mixing special ointment in the
ARTHUR: Guenevere! You are
"GUENEVERE": Don't speak. A thousand words, a hundred thousand words, would only be prologue to the truth that must be. That you, King, and I, your Queen, beget a son to bond our love and to strengthen our weak kingdom with a successor. Come, my lord.
MORGANA: The moon flows in my blood to meet your seed. And already I bear him who will be King. I could easily kill you, brother. But I want you to live to see our son be King. In me, the blood of Cornwall will have its revenge; in me, the blood of Uther will show its dark side.
MORGANA: I could easily kill you, brother. But I want you to live to see our son be King. In me, the blood of Cornwall will have its revenge; in me, the blood of Uther will show its dark side.
MORGANA: Stand back, all of you. Through my own body I have nurtured him with my potions. I made him. I alone can give him life.
ARTHUR: Who will ride the labyrinths of the forest, to the very root of his soul, to the very ends of the earth, to find the secret that will redeem us from the evil that has fallen upon us, and make this chalice, and ourselves, whole again?
SIR GAWAIN: I will ride forth in the name of that quest, and commit my strength and my soul to it. I will go.
PERCEVAL: I will go.
ARTHUR: Gawain, a dreadful fear is upon me, that we may never meet again, that the fellowship will be no more.
PERCEVAL: We will find the secret or die.
ARTHUR: Kay, I know your heart yearns to go, but I am prisoner to my duties, and you must be to yours, at my side.
MORGANA: ( intoning ) The blood of this knight will feed the god in the earth, he is weak with hunger, and he will be made strong by this blood. Then he will plant his seed, and the land will be fertile once again.
GAWAIN: Arthur, forgive me. I die without the secret. I have failed.
MORGANA: Look, Mordred, a true prize for the giant. The lamb rides into our jaws.
MORGANA: ( to Mordred ) You must kill him, for this knight is dear to your father. You must do it and learn to enjoy your father's
MORGANA: Have you found what you search for? Have you found what Arthur seeks?
MORGANA: You haven't, or you would be smiling now in the face of death. Your quest is an impossible one.
PERCEVAL: That it might be impossible makes it all the more necessary.
MORGANA: ( to the men holding Perceval ) Uncover him. I'll show you the mystery of life. It's death. ( to Mordred ) Do it, Mordred! Feel the life through the dagger, child. It belongs to you.
MORGANA: Feel the life through the dagger, child. It belongs to you.
MORDRED: I feel it, Mother. I will give his blood to the giant.
MORGANA: You didn't kill him! You didn't kill
MORGANA: My dear, sweet boy.
PERCEVAL: We'll become good friends.
LANCELOT: Where are you going, Lancelot, in your iron tomb? Still trying to save the world? The best. the bravest. the greatest. fool that ever lived. Now the world rots. Death is king of the earth. And it is you who make it so, Lancelot.
FIGURE: What is the secret of the chalice? Who does it serve?
PERCEVAL: The chalice. The secret was in my grasp. I let it slip, afraid for myself. A question was asked. I didn't understand. I didn't try. I failed.
KAY: Your son Mordred is at the gate.
ARTHUR: At last.
KAY: Don't recognize him. You were trapped by Morgana's sorcery.
ARTHUR: ( staring off ) .Gawain and Perceval, Bors and Bohort, Caradoc and Ector, and all the otherslost to me. Only the echo of their voices remains in this empty hall. All I have left is the memory of their fellowship. Echoes and memories. I am a ghost of the King that once was. ( he turns to Kay and with sudden harshness ) .Mordred is real, alive, my own flesh and blood. I will see him, I
MORDRED: Rise, Mordred.
ARTHUR: Rise, Mordred.
MORDRED: I have come to claim what is mine, I recognize you only as my son, no And you are the great King? The lords have rebelled. Invaders attack the coasts. Crops don't grow. There is nothing but plague and hunger in the land. Only I am feared. I will be king. You may have lost Excalibur, but I have found my own weapon of power. There.
ARTHUR: I recognize you only as my son, no And you are the great King? The lords have rebelled. Invaders attack the coasts. Crops don't grow. There is nothing but plague and hunger in the land. Only I am feared. I will be king. You may have lost Excalibur, but I have found my own weapon of power. There.
MORDRED: ( his tone is scathing ) And you are the great King? The lords have rebelled. Invaders attack the coasts. Crops don't grow. There is nothing but plague and hunger in the land. Only I am feared. I will be king. You may have lost Excalibur, but I have found my own weapon of power. There.
MORDRED: The very spear that pierced the side of Christ as he died on the cross.
ARTHUR: Your mother told you that?
ARTHUR: I cannot offer you the land, only my And I offer only this, Father. To commit with passion and pleasure all the evils that you failed to commit, as man and king.
MORDRED: And I offer only this, Father. To commit with passion and pleasure all the evils that you failed to commit, as man and king.
MORDRED: We will embrace only in battle. Father, and I will touch you only with the blade of my spear.
MORDRED: I will muster a great force of knights, and I will return to fight for what is mine.
ARTHUR: So be it.
PERCEVAL: Illusions. I will never find it again. I am sorry, woman, that I frightened you.
PERCEVAL: Good woman, do you have any food? Some water?.
PEASANT: The little we had, we gave to Mordred's knights. He has taken this land. Tell the King that now we must look to Mordred.
SECOND PEASANT: But we will give you some water.
PERCEVAL: I have lost my horse, my armor, my sword. I have lost my way. I have lost my strength. I have lost everything. I will not lose hope.
FIGURE: Who does it serve?
PERCEVAL: You, my lord.
FIGURE: I have waited long for you. Once you almost saw, but fear blinded you. Why am I served from the chalice?
PERCEVAL: Because you and the land are one.
FIGURE: I am wasting away and I cannot die. And I cannot live.
PERCEVAL: You and the land are one. Drink from the chalice. You will be reborn and the land with you.
FIGURE: But who am I?
PERCEVAL: You are my lord and King. You are
ARTHUR: I didn't know how empty was my soul until it was filled.
KAY: Perceval, you have returned!
ARTHUR: Ready my knights for battle; they will ride with their King once more. I have lived through others far too long! Lancelot carried my honor and Guenevere my guilt. My knights have fought my causes. Mordred carries my sins. Now, at last, I will rule.
NUN: Go away. No man is allowed beyond these doors.
ARTHUR: I am Arthur.
ARTHUR: Guenevere, accept my forgiveness, and put your heart to rest. We have suffered to long. I have always loved you, and I still love you.
GUENEVERE: I loved you much, as King, and sometimes as husband, but one cannot gaze too long at the sun in the sky.
ARTHUR: Forgive me, my wife, if you can. I was not born to live a man's life, but to be the stuff of future memory. The fellowship was a brief beginning, a fair time that cannot be forgotten; and because it will not be forgotten, that fair time may come again. Now once more I must ride with my knights to defend what was, and the dream of what could be.
GUENEVERE: I have kept it. I never dared to hope all these years that it was in your keeping.
ARTHUR: I never dared to hope all these years that it was in your keeping.
ARTHUR: I have often thought that in the hereafter of our lives, when I owe no more to the future and can be just a man, that we may meet, and you will come to me and claim me as yours, and know that I am your husband. It is a dream I have.
ARTHUR: EXT. WOODS - DAY Excalibur gleams in the sunlight. Arthur holds it high, at the head of a small force of knights under the banner of the Dragons. Kay and Perceval ride at his side. Plumed helmets, shields blazing with armorial colors, pennants flying in the clean wind from their lances; it is a brave sight. The trees are in blossom and dandelion fluff billows up at their EXT. PIT, MOORS - DAY Arthur's group comes to a halt. Two knights and a few squires galloping from the opposite direction rein in before the King. The knights draw their swords in homage, and the older one addresses Arthur.
KNIGHT: It is only me and my son. All other knights of the dukedom have rallied to Mordred.
ARTHUR: What horror is that?
KNIGHT: Mordred, sir. He digs for precious metals, with which he buys the loyalty of men at arms, binding them to his
ARTHUR: I am outnumbered ten to one by Mordred's forces. Merlin, I need you at my side as you were once, my friend, to give me courage. There are no war tricks that will fool Mordred. He was weaned on blood. More than I ever did, I need you now. Where are you, Merlin? Is it true that Morgana has trapped you?
ARTHUR: More than I ever did, I need you now. Where are you, Merlin? Is it true that Morgana has trapped you?
ARTHUR: .If only you could be at my side, Merlin, to see me wield Excalibur once more.
ARTHUR: What is this place? It is rumored Merlin, that you drew your power from these circles.
ARTHUR: Quiet. You'll wake the men, and they must fight tomorrow for their very I know. I have heard noises and echoes through the stones.
MERLIN: I know. I have heard noises and echoes through the stones.
ARTHUR: What is this place, Merlin?
MERLIN: It is like a tree. The roots of the stones spread out across the land and they draw on the thoughts and actions of men. Like sap those human matters course through the stones feeding the stars that are the leaves of the tree. And the stars whisper back to men the future course of But the earth is being torn apart, its metals stolen, and the balance is broken and the lines of power no longer converge. In fact, I nearly didn't make it in one piece.
MERLIN: But, I'm here.
ARTHUR: Where have you been these many years? Is it true that Morgana
MERLIN: Stories. You brought me back. Your love brought me back. Back to where you are now, in the land of Is this a dream? Tell me, Merlin!
ARTHUR: Is this a dream? Tell me, Merlin!
ARTHUR: He hurries away toward the camp.
KAY: Merlin, will I live.? .I was dreaming.
ARTHUR: Of Merlin?
KAY: Yes. He spoke to me. He said I would fight bravely tomorrow. I have never dreamed of Merlin before.
ARTHUR: I dreamed of him too. Merlin lives! He lives in our dreams now, in that dark and shadowy place that is as strong and real as this more solid one. He speaks to us from there.
MERLIN: I have returned, enchantress. You are beautiful, magnificent. Have you used up all the magic you stole from me to keep yourself young? Have you any magic left to do battle with
MORGANA: You provoke me, Merlin.
MERLIN: What's behind that beauty? A wizened, cold-hearted snake.
MERLIN: You are a snake about to strike!
MERLIN: And I am the staff that drives the snake back.
MORGANA: Burning with the fire of desire, I am the flames that consume the staff to ashes. I am the cloudburst that quenches the flames.
MERLIN: I am the cloudburst that quenches the flames.
MORGANA: I am the desert, where water I am the sea, which covers the desert forever under its weight.
MERLIN: I am the sea, which covers the desert forever under its weight.
MORGANA: I am the fog and mists that rise up from the sea, escaping.
MERLIN: Fog and mist! You couldn't be that. You don't have enough magic.
MORGANA: .I have the desire and I have the
MERLIN: You are mine at last. I am the sea and you will never escape me. Fog and Mist.!?
LIEUTENANT: A fog is rising, sir.
MORDRED: That cannot be.
MORDRED: ( to the lieutenant ) My mother has a sense for such things. She said there would be no fog.
MORDRED: Morgana, withered, old, lies dead in the bed, wisps of smoke rising from within her ruptured body.
ARTHUR: Kay, you will lead the attack. Perceval, you will stay with me.
ARTHUR: Be cautious, my brother.
ARTHUR: In this battle there is one thing I must do, that no one else can. Find Mordred and kill him.
PERCEVAL: There are too many on Mordred's side. We cannot hold out much longer.
KAY: He can be no other.
ARTHUR: Lancelot?. It is Lancelot!
PERCEVAL: No, my lord. We seek Mordred.
KAY: I will join him.
ARTHUR: Has anyone seen Lancelot?
SQUIRE: He lies over there, sir.
ARTHUR: Squire! Here!
LANCELOT: Lancelot, I will save you. Don't
ARTHUR: Lancelot, I will save you. Don't
LANCELOT: My salvation is to die a Knight of the Round Table.
ARTHUR: You are that and much more. You are its greatest knight, you are what is best in men. Now we will be together
LANCELOT: It is the old wound, that has been opened. I have always known it would be the gateway to my death, for it has never healed. Let my heart do its job, my King, and pump me empty.
LANCELOT: ( a death whisper ) Guenevere, has she come to you, is she Queen again?
ARTHUR: She is, Lancelot.
PERCEVAL: The fog is lifting. Only we remain
ARTHUR: But for Mordred. Where is Mordred?
MORDRED: Where is Arthur?
ARTHUR: No, Perceval. Now it is time for me to raise my sword. Mordred, prepare to meet your death.
MORDRED: I wait for you, Father.
ARTHUR: Draw the spear from me. Do it.
ARTHUR: There is one thing left to do. Excalibur. And you must do it, Perceval. Leave my wounds, I command I cannot
PERCEVAL: I cannot
ARTHUR: Take Excalibur. Find a pool of calm water and throw the sword into
ARTHUR: Obey me, Perceval. You must act for me. It is my last order as your King. Do it, and be back!
PERCEVAL: It is too precious a thing. I can't.
ARTHUR: When you threw it in, what did you .I saw nothing.
PERCEVAL: .I saw nothing.
PERCEVAL: My King, I couldn't do it. Excalibur cannot be lost. Other men
ARTHUR: By itself it is only a piece of steel. Its power comes from he who wields it. For now there is no one. Do as I have ordered!
PERCEVAL: But Arthur isn't there. Perceval looks around him, he doesn't understand. He sees a trail of blood. He spurs his horse and follows the trail down to the sea.
PERCEVAL: Arthur! Will you return? All the knights of the Round Table are dead. Excalibur is returned. Arthur is gone. Maybe he lives, maybe he will return.
PERCEVAL: All the knights of the Round Table are dead. Excalibur is returned. Arthur is gone. Maybe he lives, maybe he will return.
PERCEVAL: Only I remain, and this.
THE END: Writers : Rospo Pallenberg John Boorman
