EXTRACT: Written by Mike Judge
JOEL: You always give me free drinks DEAN ( v.o. ) Oh yeah. Well come by anyway.
JOEL: Yeah?. Might as well. No action going on at my house, that's for DEAN ( v.o. ) Really? The wife out of town?
JOEL: No. I just haven't been laid in a month.
JOEL: No. This is pretty much normal these days. As CREDITS continue, camera PULLS OUT, back down to the manufacturing area, past a big vat of orange extract, down through various stages of assembly line production, then follows several bottles of orange extract moving past HECTOR, a Mexican immigrant employee in his thirties. The camera stops on him. Talking to Hector is STEP, a short, beady-eyed Charles-Manson-looking guy with a beard and mustache. Step is in his forties. He makes everything he says sound as macho and important as possible.
STEP: You get this job through Manpower?
HECTOR: I started here with Manpower too. Started out on the line just like Beat. Hector is not quite sure what he's talking about. STEP continues telling his tale in such a way that the only polite reaction would be one of total amazement.
STEP: I started here with Manpower too. Started out on the line just like Beat. Hector is not quite sure what he's talking about. STEP continues telling his tale in such a way that the only polite reaction would be one of total amazement.
RORY: ( hands them each a flier ) My band's playing this Friday, come check us out. Hector looks down at the flier. It's xeroxed with fifties clip-art, cut out letters and the name of the band, "God's Cock". Hector just looks at it confused, not knowing much English, not sure what he's supposed to be doing with the AT THE END OF THE LINE, where boxes are loaded onto pallets, sits MARY, 58 years old, wearing a 15-year-old pair of acid- wash jeans, and an oversized tweety-bird T-shirt, fanny pack, and dayglow yellow triangle-shaped earrings. She's pear- shaped with short hair. She's bitter and bossy, always shaking her head at everyone. She sits on a stool with a clipboard, looks over her glasses at Hector, shaking her head. She talks to Gabriella, a Hispanic woman in her You see that. That new guy. He's holding us up. It's not my job to tell them to hold the line And then Joel's gonna come yell at us, cuz he's not doing his job.
MARY: You see that. That new guy. He's holding us up. It's not my job to tell them to hold the line And then Joel's gonna come yell at us, cuz he's not doing his job.
GABRIELLA: And then Joel's gonna come yell at us, cuz he's not doing his job.
MARY: ( folds her arms, fed up ) I'm just gonna sit here.
GABRIELLA: You're not gonna shut it off?
MARY: I'm not gonna hold the line. If they're not gonna do their job, why should I do mine. Mary sits there, arms folded, lips pursed, refusing to pause the conveyor belt.
JOEL: If I don't get home before about 8:00, she puts on the sweatpants and once the sweatpants are on, it's over I get nothing. ( notices something down
BELOW ): Shit. I'm gonna have to call you Joel hangs up and runs downstairs.
STEP: What are you doing?!
MARY: What are YOU doing?! ( pointing at Hector ) What is he doing? A YELLING/BICKERING MATCH breaks out between Mary, Step, Rory and Gabriella. Joel runs over, shuts off the conveyor belt.
STEP: That's what I was tryin' to say.
JOEL: And Step, if you wanna be Floor Manager, this is the kind of thing you're going to have to deal with.
STEP: ( KISS-ASS )
JOEL: Okay, now Step, Rory, Hector, let's get this cleaned up, and get rolling again. We can't afford to fall behind today. Joel walks away. People resume their posts. Mary starts right back up with Gabriella.
MARY: You see that? We always get the INT. JOEL'S OFFICE - A LITTLE LATER Joel sits in his swivel chair, looking down at the production floor, shaking his head. BRIAN, Joel's second in command, walks in. He's a little older than Joel, neatly trimmed beard, aviator glasses, and a bit of a gut. He wears a Reynold's Extract golf shirt and Khaki pants. He walks over to the window, joins Joel, looking down at the employees.
JOEL: Jesus. They're like a bunch of goddamned children.
BRIAN: Tell me about it. Sorry I missed the drama; I was showing boy-genius down there how to back up a ANGLE ON Rory, driving the forklift, handing out a flier as he passes someone.
JOEL: Well, I guess he's got that band he's in too.
BRIAN: ( disgust at the word
"BAND" ): "Band", ugh.
JOEL: Who, Mary?
BRIAN: No, the other one what's-her- face she asked me or rather "axed" me for more personal days. Just like that. I told her maybe if she figures out how to fill out the time sheets correctly I'll give her more personal days. ( Off Joel's look ) Don't worry, she will never fill out her time sheets correctly. Joel looks down at the production floor. Joel's POV: old hens.
JOEL: ( to himself, praying ) Please go back inside. Please just turn around.. .Come on.don't notice me.
JOEL: ( TO HIMSELF )
NATHAN: Hi there Joel! Glad I caught ya. Nathan settles in like he's going to be there a while, leaning with his arms folded, hanging inside the car, trapping Joel.
NATHAN: How've ya been? I left you a message last week. I don't know if you got it or not.
JOEL: Yeah, actually Nathan, I'm kind of in a hurry here.
NATHAN: Oh yeah? You been busy?
JOEL: Yeah, in fact. ( checks his watch ) I should go right now actually. I gotta call the office before they Well, real quick while I got ya here what're you guys doing November 17th?
NATHAN: Well, real quick while I got ya here what're you guys doing November 17th?
JOEL: Ah, I don't ah. ( realizes his should fake
IT ): Actually we're going to be out of town that weekend.
NATHAN: Oh yeah? Where you going?
JOEL: Oh, wait a minute I'm sorry, I meant the 7th. Yeah, November 7th. You'll be in town then right?
NATHAN: Oh, wait a minute I'm sorry, I meant the 7th. Yeah, November 7th. You'll be in town then right?
JOEL: ( DEFEATED )
NATHAN: Great. There's this dinner Leslie and I are going to. It's an annual thing we do it every year with the Rotary Club it's for charity. It's just a whole lot of fun, and we wanted to invite you and Suzie to be our guests at our table. It's
JOEL: I'm sorry, I ah. I just don't think that's something we're gonna want to do.
NATHAN: Really? Why not? It's a lot of Oh, I don't know. Suzie doesn't really like going to stuff like
JOEL: Oh, I don't know. Suzie doesn't really like going to stuff like
THAT: Why not?
NATHAN: Why not?
JOEL: Well, we wouldn't know anybody there. She get's kind of Oh no It's not like that. She won't be uncomfortable. I guarantee it. No, it's not like that at all. It's not formal or anything. Trust me. It's just a real loose bunch.
NATHAN: Oh no It's not like that. She won't be uncomfortable. I guarantee it. No, it's not like that at all. It's not formal or anything. Trust me. It's just a real loose bunch.
JOEL: I just don't.
NATHAN: I tell you what. Why don't we do this I'll go ahead and get tickets, since they're gonna sell out fast. You talk to Suzie. See what she says. Like I say, she won't be uncomfortable at all. Maybe I'll have Leslie give her a call you know how it is when the wives talk, heh heh Joel is about to snap.
JOEL: Um, why don't we talk about this ( looks at his watch ) I gotta make this call before they Joel pulls away, forcing Nathan to raise off the window sill.
NATHAN: Sorry, I almost forgot the tickets are forty dollars a plate. I know that's a little steep, but the food is fantastic and it's for a good cause. So that'd be eighty dollars total. There's no tax or Ah, look Nathan, I really gotta get inside and make this call. Let's talk about this another time. Joel has his finger on the button to shut the garage door, waiting for Nathan to get out. Nathan stops, just inside.
JOEL: Ah, look Nathan, I really gotta get inside and make this call. Let's talk about this another time. Joel has his finger on the button to shut the garage door, waiting for Nathan to get out. Nathan stops, just inside.
NATHAN: Oh, and if you need us to look out for the house or anything when you go out of town Joel's finger still on the garage door button.
NATHAN: Well, just let us know. Where you guys going anyway?
JOEL: ( BULLSHITTING )
NATHAN: Alright then. We'll see ya. Nathan finally steps out of the garage. Joel breaths a huge sigh of relief. Then,
NATHAN: Oh, Joel one more thing Joel lets the door shut on him, and bolts into the house.
JOEL: Man, that Nathan won't shut up.
SUZIE: Yeah, what an asshole. I don't even go into the front yard anymore. That wife of his is even Suzie plops down on the couch looking tired and pissed off. Joel sits down next to her.
JOEL: I'm sorry. It's just. I'm a little tired, and, I don't know, it's the middle of the week.
SUZIE: I'm sorry. It's just. I'm a little tired, and, I don't know, it's the middle of the week.
JOEL: It's not the middle of the week. It's Monday. Why can't
SUZIE: ( Freezes, suddenly
JOEL: ( WORRIED )
SUZIE: Suzie jumps up with newfound energy, runs for the remote and turns on the TV. Joel just sits there.
JOEL: I gotta get a house with a bathroom that's doesn't share a wall with the TV.
DEAN: Why don't you do that in another bathroom. You've got three of 'em.
JOEL: It would look suspicious. We never use those other bathrooms. Maybe if I had some insulation put in.
DEAN: Insulation?. All I know is, you shouldn't move man; you've got a nice house. I mean you've got the American dream really you own your own company. I can't believe you used to bar back for me here, and now you've got all that.
JOEL: But what do I have really? It's a big pain in the ass.
DEAN: ( trying to help ) Yeah, but he probably lives in a crappy apartment.
JOEL: Hell, I'd move into a crappy apartment if the bathroom wasn't right next to the TV.
SALESMAN #1: Yeah, it's expensive but it's sweet. Are you familiar with the Gibson humbucking pickups?
CINDY: No, sorry. I don't play. It's for my Dad actually for his fiftieth birthday. My sisters and I are all pitching in.
SALESMAN #2: Ah, that's nice. Your Dad would love these humbuckings. They really kick ass. An annoyed MALE CUSTOMER has been waiting behind Cindy, trying to get some help, but he might as well be invisible. He tries to address Salesman #2, off to the side.
MALE CUSTOMER: Excuse me. I just have a quick Salesman #2 is oblivious, never takes his eyes off Cindy.
SALESMAN #2: ( OBLIVIOUS )
CINDY: I think he played like, jazz or something. I'm not sure.
SALESMAN #2: Well this is an excellent jazz guitar. It's what Pat Metheny Is your Dad into Metheny at all?
SALESMAN #1: Is your Dad into Metheny at all?
CINDY: Oh, I don't know who that is. He's like, a totally kickass fusion guitarist. Are you into fusion?
SALESMAN #2: He's like, a totally kickass fusion guitarist. Are you into fusion?
CINDY: I don't really know much about I play fusion guitar so. Just Um, do they come in any other You mean different finishes? There's a sunburst finish we might have in stock.
SALESMAN #2: I play fusion guitar so. Just Um, do they come in any other You mean different finishes? There's a sunburst finish we might have in stock.
CINDY: Um, do they come in any other You mean different finishes? There's a sunburst finish we might have in stock.
SALESMAN #1: You mean different finishes? There's a sunburst finish we might have in stock.
SALESMAN #2: Yeah, do you wanna see it? I'll go get it.
SALESMAN #1: Or I could go. Whatever.
CINDY: Are you sure?
SALESMAN #1: Oh shit!.
AROUND ): THE GIBSON! They run out the front door, but Cindy is long gone.
THE GIBSON!: They run out the front door, but Cindy is long gone.
BRIAN: You're not gonna believe this. Remember the guy from General Mills that called a while back? Talking like he wanted to buy us out?
JOEL: I thought you said he wasn't serious; he was just sniffing Yeah, well he's serious now. He just made an offer I mean a real offer this time.
BRIAN: Yeah, well he's serious now. He just made an offer I mean a real offer this time.
JOEL: You're kidding.
BRIAN: No. It must be part of some bigger strategic move, because it's over market value I think.
JOEL: Joel lets it sink in. He walks over to the window, looking down on the production floor.
JOEL: I could unload all this. I could probably retire.
BRIAN: I mean, yeah, there's a lot of details to work out, but this could be great. They'll be calling back next week, what should I tell them? Joel looks down, sees Mary sitting with her arms folded, shaking her head.
JOEL: Tell 'em hell yes.
MARY: I already warned him. This is the last time. I'm just gonna sit In SLOW MOTION, we see:
MARY: I knew it. That's what happens when you don't pay attention.
JOEL: ( to the person on the
PHONE ): Uh-huh. Alright. Let me know if you hear anything else. He hangs up, talks to Dean.
DEAN: ( shaking his head ) Yeah. I'm not sure how it happened, but we have a great safety record and we comply with all the safety codes so. it was just a freak accident. There'll be an investigation of some kind I'm Well, you have insurance for that kind of thing, right?
JOEL: Yeah. I'm not sure how it happened, but we have a great safety record and we comply with all the safety codes so. it was just a freak accident. There'll be an investigation of some kind I'm Well, you have insurance for that kind of thing, right?
DEAN: Well, you have insurance for that kind of thing, right?
JOEL: Oh yeah. Of course. In fact, he'll probably get a huge Yeah. I would think so. I mean, it's your balls. Beat, as they contemplate the profundity of it.
DEAN: Yeah. I would think so. I mean, it's your balls. Beat, as they contemplate the profundity of it.
JOEL: Boy it really makes you stop and think about how fragile we are especially our balls. They're just hanging there in a little sack between our legs. At any moment they could be cut off forever.
DEAN: Yeah. And your balls are really important man. Your balls are everything. What kind of life would you have with no testicles? Can you imagine that shit?
JOEL: JOEL ( CONT'D ) ( MORE ) JOEL ( CONT'D )
DEAN: Wait. Three months? I thought you said it was once a month.
JOEL: I did? I must've been lying. I don't know. Maybe things'll get better when I sell the company. I'll be around more.
DEAN: Well, I hope so. That would suck. I get laid all the time. ( off Joel's reaction ) Ah, it's all right.
JOEL: Ah, it's all right.
DEAN: Yeah, sexual frustration is bad news. You know what you oughtta Get some Xanax.
JOEL: Get some Xanax.
DEAN: Get some Xanax.
JOEL: Xanax? Isn't that for anxiety?
DEAN: Yeah it is, but I find it's good for just about any phsychological problem. I mean, basically it just makes you feel good, so it sort of works for anything. I even take it when I have a cold. It's probably great for sexual frustration. Want me to get you some?
JOEL: You know what else is good? Codeine cough syrup.
DEAN: You know what else is good? Codeine cough syrup.
JOEL: For what?
DEAN: It's just good. Joel looks at Dean for a beat.
DEAN: No. Well, I guess I took some Vicodin this morning. But that was just 'cause I was hung-over.
CINDY: Oh, that's okay. Thanks. But I just kind of wanna get it over with, you know? It's kind of hard for me.
BRIAN: So obviously Step's not coming back anytime soon. I had to hire a couple temps. Is that okay?
JOEL: Yeah, sure. How is Step?
BRIAN: Better. They say he's going home in a couple of days. Speaking of which, the guys at General Mills heard about this whole Step thing. They're worried. If Step decides to sue us beyond the insurance settlement it could be a serious liability. They don't want to make an offer until this thing has Really? They think it's that big of a liability?
JOEL: Really? They think it's that big of a liability?
BRIAN: Well yeah. Don't you? I mean, think about it. Imagine if you asked a bunch of jurors how much you'd have to pay 'em to cut their balls off? I mean, I wouldn't let someone cut my balls off for a billion dollars. Seriously unless there were some kind of really expensive operation that could give you artificial balls or something. Would you?
JOEL: No, I guess not.
BRIAN: Anyway, I wouldn't worry. He says he's not going to sue us. Says he
JOEL: Boy, Step sure is being mellow about all this.
BRIAN: Yeah, well I think when you lose your balls it mellows you out. You don't get as pissed off and aggressive about things. I know it's true for horses, and bulls.
JOEL: Boy, it sure does make you think..
BRIAN: Oh, by the way, guess who asked for a raise today?
JOEL: ( GESTURES INDISCRIMINATELY
BRIAN: ( GESTURES INDISCRIMINATELY
JOEL: Brian, you call everyone here "Dinkus." I don't know who you're talking about.
BRIAN: You know, Forklift-Dinkus?
JOEL: Oh. I thought you call him "boy- Yeah, well boy-genius asked for a raise. I said, "are you kidding? You nearly got someone killed last week," and then he blamed it on Dinkus over there.
BRIAN: Yeah, well boy-genius asked for a raise. I said, "are you kidding? You nearly got someone killed last week," and then he blamed it on Dinkus over there.
JOEL: You know Brian, you really ought to learn the employees' names.
BRIAN: Well, I was thinking about that, but hey, if this deal goes through next week, I won't have to. It's not like I'm gonna be inviting Dinkus and Boy-Genius over for INT. JOEL'S OFFICE - NEXT DAY Joel stands on one side of his office looking down through a long window overlooking the manufacturing area. Dean comes in, walks over to the window, looks down at the production floor with Joel.
DEAN: Hey man. What's goin' o Whoa! the assembley line.
JOEL: Yeah. She's a temp.
DEAN: She's a tramp?
JOEL: No a temp. Quit staring.
DEAN: Damn, she's hot! Way to go.
JOEL: Hey, I didn't hire her. She came here through Manpower, like everybody else. They just sent her Manpower, huh? Maybe I should give them a call. You don't usually have girls anywhere near that hot working here. What's the deal?
DEAN: Manpower, huh? Maybe I should give them a call. You don't usually have girls anywhere near that hot working here. What's the deal?
JOEL: Yeah, I know. I guess it makes sense though if you think about it. Hot girls need a job just as much as anyone else.
DEAN: ( thinks for a second ) Do they really?. Huh. You just don't see 'em here. Usually your temps look like winos. And they're You wanna hear something really She came on to me.
JOEL: You wanna hear something really She came on to me.
DEAN: She came on to me.
JOEL: She came on to me.
DEAN: No way! Really?
JOEL: Yeah. I mean, I'm pretty sure. I could be wrong, but.
DEAN: Hey, I'm sure she did. Are you kidding? You could have any girl down there.
JOEL: I don't know about that.
DEAN: I'm serious. Dude, you're the big shot here. You're the king of. What do you call that shit you make here again?
JOEL: Extract. And spray-dried flavoring, and we're branching out
INTO: Yeah, you're the Extract King man. You could have any girl here. I mean, I wouldn't want most of 'em, but her. Way to go Joel. Dean looks down at manufacturing area, taking it all in.
DEAN: Yeah, you're the Extract King man. You could have any girl here. I mean, I wouldn't want most of 'em, but her. Way to go Joel. Dean looks down at manufacturing area, taking it all in.
JOEL: Well, first she started asking me about what happened to Step and all that stuff you know, just sort of making conversation?
DEAN: But it really seemed like she was flirting with me, you know?
JOEL: But it really seemed like she was flirting with me, you know?
DEAN: Really? How?
JOEL: Well, you see that guy down there by the fork lift? ANGLE ON Rory, the indi-rock guy with tattoos, etc.
DEAN: Wow. So, you gonna do anything about it?
JOEL: What? No. No way. I couldn't live with myself if I cheated on Suzie. It'd be nice if I got laid at home once in a while ( still staring at her ) Man, she is fine. You mind if I hit that then? Yeah, I do sort of. We see a COMMOTION down on the floor. Mary runs out of the
DEAN: ( still staring at her ) Man, she is fine. You mind if I hit that then? Yeah, I do sort of. We see a COMMOTION down on the floor. Mary runs out of the
JOEL: Yeah, I do sort of. We see a COMMOTION down on the floor. Mary runs out of the
ACTION: Mary runs over to where Hector is working, hysterical.
MARY: My purse is stolen! It's gone! ( pointing at Hector ) He did it! He stole my purse!
BRIAN: Now hold on
MARY: I won't hold on! I'll call the ( confused, frightened ) What? I don'. No comprende.
HECTOR: ( confused, frightened ) What? I don'. No comprende.
BRIAN: ( HORRIBLE SPANISH )
JOEL: Now wait a second. Calm down Mary. How do you know it was stolen?
MARY: It's gone! That's how.
JOEL: Well, what did it look like.
MARY: It was black with a fur, leopard style border. As Mary describes the purse, we
STEP: You can go ahead of me if that's all you have.
CINDY: ( SWEETLY )
STEP: Really? I work there too. Or, ah, I used to.
CINDY: Really? You're kidding! I just started there. What's your name?
STEP: I go by Step. Yeah, I'm the fastest sorter there. As Cindy and Step get to know each other we
JOEL: I'm sick of it Dean. I'm sick of being turned down in my own house by my own wife. We're turning into one of those brother-sister Huh.Now that you mention it, you guys kind of look alike too.
DEAN: Huh.Now that you mention it, you guys kind of look alike too.
JOEL: ( GROSSED OUT )
DEAN: ( takes a drink ) Maybe things will be better after I sell the company. Or maybe it's just going to mean more time to sit around and contemplate not getting Dean nods sympathetically.
JOEL: ( takes a drink ) Maybe things will be better after I sell the company. Or maybe it's just going to mean more time to sit around and contemplate not getting Dean nods sympathetically.
DEAN: What about that girl at work? She still into you?
JOEL: Yeah. she was really coming on to me. She gave me her phone number and everything. Told me to call her if I wanted to go to that party. Can you believe that? And there's nothing I can do about it, but just be sexually frustrated.
DEAN: I've got some Xanax if you want it. Like I say, that always works for No thanks.
JOEL: No thanks.
DEAN: Well maybe you should call that No, I can't. I can't cheat on Suzie. I just gotta power through it until I'm so old that I can't get it up anymore.
JOEL: No, I can't. I can't cheat on Suzie. I just gotta power through it until I'm so old that I can't get it up anymore.
DEAN: What about if Suzie cheated on you?
JOEL: Hmm. I hadn't even thought of I wish she would.
DEAN: You wish she would cheat on you? Wouldn't that bother you? Joel thinks about it.
JOEL: No. I don't think it would ( occuring to him ) I guess that's weird huh?
DEAN: Yeah, it's a little weird. Sort But see, then I could do something about all this sexual frustration, without feeling guilty about it.
JOEL: But see, then I could do something about all this sexual frustration, without feeling guilty about it.
DEAN: Do you think she would cheat on You sure?
JOEL: You sure?
DEAN: You sure?
JOEL: ( CONSIDERS IT )
DEAN: So you're saying she would probably cheat on you if she was put in temptation's way?
JOEL: Yeah, maybe.
DEAN: You know what you oughtta do?
JOEL: ( WEARY )
DEAN: No, no. Check this out If you really wish your wife would cheat on you, it's not that hard to make it happen.
JOEL: Hire a gigolo to have an affair with your wife.
DEAN: Hire a gigolo to have an affair with your wife.
JOEL: I'm serious. I know a guy.
DEAN: I'm serious. I know a guy.
JOEL: ( INCREDULOUS )
DEAN: How do you know a gigolo?
JOEL: How do you know a gigolo?
DEAN: This guy Brad. He comes in here all the time. He's a friend of Vic's. You could hire him to have an affair with Suzie.
JOEL: Come on Dean.
DEAN: Why not? You said you wouldn't care if she cheated on you. Then you'd be free to go out with that Cindy chick and get your ya-yas out with no guilt. Problem solved. ( proud of himself ) Man, what a great idea. Joel just shakes his head at the whole thing.
JOEL: You know, maybe I will try some of that Xanax. Dean reaches down under the cash register and whips out a little box and pulls out a pill.
STEP: I just believe that what's right is right.
CINDY: That's right Step, and what's right is for you to send a message.
STEP: A message?
CINDY: You need to send a message so that a horrible accident like this never happens to anyone else ever again. That's what's right. And the way you do that is to take them to You think?
STEP: You think?
CINDY: Yes Step. That's why I called a lawyer for you that guy on all the bus stop benches.
STEP: Joe Adler?
CINDY: Mmm hmm. I just want you to do what's right Step. They start cuddling, kissing. Cindy pulls away.
CINDY: I'm sorry Step, your doctor said you shouldn't get aroused.
STEP: No he didn't.
CINDY: Maybe it was your lawyer, but he talked to your doctor. And your doctor said it's very important not to get aroused until after the trial. I'm sorry.
STEP: That's okay. You're so good to me They start cuddling again.
CINDY: Look Step, you're getting me turned on, I'm getting you turned on. I better just go.
DEAN: Shit. Do you remember what color that pill I gave you was?
JOEL: Damn. I don't think it was Xanax. I think that might've been Ritalin. Or "Special K."
DEAN: Damn. I don't think it was Xanax. I think that might've been Ritalin. Or "Special K."
JOEL: ( feeling the buzz ) Ah, who cares?
DEAN: It's just that, ah, Special K is a horse tranquilizer, kinda has a weird effect when people take it but. well, don't worry about it. You might not want to drink too much more though.
JOEL: ( beginning to slur his
SPEECH ): You know that thing you were talking about? About the gigolo?
DEAN: Do you think it would be wrong to do that? I mean morally wrong?
JOEL: Do you think it would be wrong to do that? I mean morally wrong?
DEAN: ( with full authority ) Oh nooo. Definitely not. What could be morally wrong about it?
JOEL: I don't know.
DEAN: Look, if she doesn't want to go for it, she doesn't have to. And if she does, then she's the one who sinned, and then it's perfectly morally right for you to go out and boff whoever you want.
JOEL: ( SLURRED SPEECH )
JOEL: And this guy, he's a friend of yours? What's his name?
DEAN: Brad. You want me to give him a I don't know. It's kinda weird even talking about it.
JOEL: I don't know. It's kinda weird even talking about it.
DEAN: Look, this is no big deal Joel. I'm serious.
JOEL: Yeah. I mean, you can't lose. Just say you're hiring him to come clean the pool or something. See what happens. If she doesn't go for it, then at least you know you're doing the right thing by being faithful.
DEAN: Yeah. I mean, you can't lose. Just say you're hiring him to come clean the pool or something. See what happens. If she doesn't go for it, then at least you know you're doing the right thing by being faithful.
JOEL: Yeah, I guess you're right. I don't know. It's crazy. Dean pours Joel another drink.
DEAN: Look. Have another drink. Think about it. You know what? Why don't I just call Brad and see what he has to say?
JOEL: Alright. What the hell. Joel takes a big swig of liquor.
JOEL: So it's two-hundred dollars then?
BRAD: Yeah, two-hundred.
DEAN: Well yeah, but don't forget, I'm getting ten percent.
JOEL: What, so you're a pimp now?
DEAN: ( CONDESCENDING CHUCKLE )
JOEL: Alright, alright.
DEAN: Two-hundred and twenty.
JOEL: Wait a minute
BRAD: Um, I have a question?
JOEL: Brad looks at Joel, deeply concerned.
BRAD: So like, are you gonna, like, watch or something?
JOEL: No no no. God no! It's not like that. I won't even be there. I'll be at work. Remember? We already talked about this. Brad looks blank, like he's not getting it.
JOEL: What you'll do, is come to my house pretending to be the new pool cleaner. Then you simply try to seduce my wife. Okay? If she doesn't respond, you simply clean the pool and leave. That's all. It's that simple. Hold on Brad for a long beat.
BRAD: So, uh, you're not gonna touch my ass or anything.?
JOEL: NO! Try to pay attention okay? I will not be there. I will be at work. You come over to my house while I'm not there, posing as the new pool cleaner and then try to seduce her. Brad finally makes a breakthrough.
BRAD: Oooh, I see. Sorry man. Yeah, yeah. I get it now. You're not even gonna be there.
JOEL: Yeah, that's right.
BRAD: Yeah. cool. No problem. This is gonna be great!
JOEL: Remember, she might not go for it Brad starts to get a little too excited.
BRAD: Yeah, this is gonna be cool! I can hardly wait! Awesome. Hey man, if you know anyone else who needs you know what I do, like you know, lonely housewives and shit, maybe you could tell 'em about me, you know. Joel looks on with growing concern as Brad can't seem to stop Cuz like, I figure if I did a few jobs and I was, like, really good? Then maybe they'd tell their friends, you know, and they'd give me a. what do you call those Yeah yeah, those things. Then those women could tell more women and then it'd be like I was, like, uh. branching or..
BRAD: Cuz like, I figure if I did a few jobs and I was, like, really good? Then maybe they'd tell their friends, you know, and they'd give me a. what do you call those Yeah yeah, those things. Then those women could tell more women and then it'd be like I was, like, uh. branching or..
DEAN: Yeah yeah, those things. Then those women could tell more women and then it'd be like I was, like, uh. branching or..
BRAD: Yeah yeah, those things. Then those women could tell more women and then it'd be like I was, like, uh. branching or..
DEAN: Yeah, networking! Totally. Then if I got enough of 'em, maybe I could quit my landscaping job and do this full time. That would be awesome! Cause I hate landscaping. I like getting laid a lot better, and my boss is a total dick.
BRAD: Yeah, networking! Totally. Then if I got enough of 'em, maybe I could quit my landscaping job and do this full time. That would be awesome! Cause I hate landscaping. I like getting laid a lot better, and my boss is a total dick.
BRAD: Like I say, if your wife has any housewife friends who might Dean finally puts his foot down.
DEAN: Okay, you've said that a few times now Brad. Go on to your car. Alright. Cool. Like I say
BRAD: Alright. Cool. Like I say
DEAN: Goodnight Brad.
BRAD: Okay. See you later. Brad finally leaves.
DEAN: Let me drive you home. You're in no condition to drive. Joel stumbles into Dean's car.
JOEL: Are you sure about this guy Dean? He acts like he's never done this Oh no. He does it all the time. Don't worry. He just gets a little excited sometimes. He's cool.
DEAN: Oh no. He does it all the time. Don't worry. He just gets a little excited sometimes. He's cool.
JOEL: I don't know. He sure doesn't seem too bright.
DEAN: Yeah well, what do you excpect? He's a whore.
CINDY: Looks like you had one of those Where was I? Joel nods, tries to grin and look cool as he takes a sip of his alkaseltzer. Then his eyes go wide, he almost does a spit-take as something suddenly dawns on him.
JOEL: Oh shit! He runs out of the room.
JOEL: DEAN ( V.0. ) Oh, hey Joel.
JOEL: Thank God you're home. Ah,. did that really happen last night? I mean, did we go through with it with that gigolo stuff?
DEAN: Ah, yeah. As far as I know.
JOEL: Shit! What was I thinking?! We gotta call it off. Right now. Can you call that guy, Brad?
DEAN: Tell him I'll pay him anyway, whatever, just don't come over. God, what was I thinking?!
JOEL: Tell him I'll pay him anyway, whatever, just don't come over. God, what was I thinking?!
DEAN: Sure, I'll call him. No problem. Oh wait a second. I don't think I have his number.
JOEL: What? I thought you called him last night.
DEAN: Yeah, but I got his number from Well get it from him again.
JOEL: Well get it from him again.
DEAN: Vic doesn't have a phone right now.
JOEL: Shit! I'll try information. What's Brad's last name? Hmm. it's something like,. I think it's a Mexican name.
DEAN: Hmm. it's something like,. I think it's a Mexican name.
JOEL: ( LOSING PATIENCE )
DEAN: Yeah, I thought it was weird too a guy like that with a Mexican last name. It's like Lopez, or Sanchez or something. Joel looks at his watch. It's 11:15.
JOEL: Joel hangs up the phone, and rushes out the door.
CONTINUOUS ACTION: Brian walks in.
BRIAN: ( CONCERNED )
JOEL: Not now Brian.
BRIAN: Ah yeah, it's kind of important kind of really important. It's
JOEL: Not now! We FOLLOW Joel as he rushes past his SECRETARY.
SECRETARY: Excuse me Joel? There's a Brad Chavez on line one for you.
JOEL: I can't, I Joel stops suddenly.
JOEL: Brad Chavez. He said he's done with the job you guys talked about at your house? Do you want me to take a message? Joel looks pale.
SECRETARY: Brad Chavez. He said he's done with the job you guys talked about at your house? Do you want me to take a message? Joel looks pale.
JOEL: Um, no. He's the ah, pool cleaner. I better take that. Joel goes back in his office. HOLD on Brian, confused.
JOEL: BRAD ( V.0. ) Hey, is this Joel?
JOEL: BRAD ( V.0. ) Hey, it's Brad. Mission accomplished dude.
JOEL: What do you mean?
JOEL: What? What're you.? ( looks at his watch ) You weren't even supposed to be there for another 45 minutes.
JOEL: ( reality setting in ) So you mean she actually ah. you BRAD ( V.0. ) Yup. It was easy.
JOEL: ( AGITATED )
JOEL: No. Tell me. Tell me how it I wanna hear everything.
BRAD: You sure?
JOEL: BRAD ( V.0. ) Okay. Well, she let me in, so I went back like I was cleaning the EXT. JOEL'S HOUSE - POOL DAY
BRAD: This is a really nice house.
SUZIE: Is it your Dad's house?
BRAD: Is it your Dad's house?
SUZIE: No. It's ours.
BRAD: Wow, you look so young to be living in a house this nice.
SUZIE: Oh, thanks. Do you have any sunscreen? I forgot mine.
BRAD: Do you have any sunscreen? I forgot mine.
JOEL: Okay that's enough! Stop!
JOEL: I don't need to hear anymore.
JOEL: NO! No. Look, I gotta go. Bye. Joel hangs up the phone and falls back into his chair, in a state of shock.
JOEL: ( quietly, to himself ) Holy shit.
JOEL: Dammit ! JOEL'S POV: Nathan, the guy across the street is in his front yard, puttering around with the mail.
JOEL: ( TO HIMSELF )
NATHAN: How's it goin'?
JOEL: Oh, I'm kind of busy actually.
NATHAN: Yeah. Well I won't keep you. I just wanted to let you know, I got those tickets to that dinner we talked about on the 7th. I think I told you they were forty dollars a piece, but it turns out it's a tad more this year fifty-five so if I could go ahead and just get a check from you guys.
JOEL: Look, ah, we can't go. Remember?
NATHAN: No, this is the 7th. You said you're going out of town on the Yeah, but remember, I told you we didn't really want to go to this Nathan looks dumbfounded. Joel is about to snap.
JOEL: Yeah, but remember, I told you we didn't really want to go to this Nathan looks dumbfounded. Joel is about to snap.
NATHAN: But I already bought the tickets. I know you said something about her feeling uncomfortable, but, like I say, she won't feel uncomfortable at all I guarantee it.
JOEL: Look, I gotta get going.
NATHAN: Alright then. Joel starts to pull away.
SUZIE: So. How's work?
JOEL: It sucks.
SUZIE: Really? What's wrong?
JOEL: Suzie looks a little puzzled. They keep eating in silence for a beat.
JOEL: I don't feel well. I'm going to INT. REYNOLD'S EXTRACT BUILDING - JOEL'S OFFICE - DAY From the window in his office, Joel watches Cindy working down on the production floor. Cindy looks up, they make eye contact for a brief moment. She gives him a flirtacious wave. Joel waves back. Then Rory comes by, starts talking to INT. REYNOLD'S EXTRACT /MANUFACTURING AREA - CONTINOUS So you're in a band?
CINDY: So you're in a band?
RORY: .Actually, I'm in five bands right now. But Godscock is basically the same four guys as Fighthead, but Fighthead's more of a thrash/skatepunk thing. Godscock is more melodic stuff. Cindy nods politely. Rory thinks she's interested.
CINDY: Yeah, definitely. ( looks at her watch ) Ooh, I gotta go. Dentist Cindy leaves. ANGLE ON Mary, on the other side of the room, watching them. She talks to Gabriella.
RORY: Cindy leaves. ANGLE ON Mary, on the other side of the room, watching them. She talks to Gabriella.
MARY: See, there he goes again, slowing us down.
GABRIELLA: She's so nice too. Hector walks by. Mary just shakes her head.
MARY: I can't believe he's still working here. You know Silvia can't find her wallet. Thinks it was stolen. And guess who was in the locker room last? Hector. They both look at Hector and shake their heads in disgust.
MARY: You know, I could get a job at Southwest Airlines. My Niece works there. I'd get better benefits than we get here too.
GABRIELLE: Mmm hmm. I could get a job at Gemco. You think they would put up with this stuff at Gemco? Mmm mmn. They run a tight ship.
MARY: That's right.
JOEL: ( TO HIMSELF )
BRIAN: You got a second? I think we might have a big problem here. I'm not sure what happened, but all of the sudden Step says he doesn't want to settle anymore. I think he might've talked to a lawyer. Joel goes to his desk, sits down.
BRIAN: Like I say, General Mills isn't going to make their offer official until this settles. Joel considers this.
JOEL: I think Step is just chest-beating. He does this all the time. He gets all wound up, talks big, then he always backs down. And that's with his balls.
PAROLE OFFICER: I'm sorry to even bring this up, but you're not living with the drug dealer anymore are you? Cindy's parole officer is a sad schlub of a guy, about 50 with bushy grey hair and a mustache, he has a badge and a gun on his belt.
CINDY: Nope. I'm staying at Extended Stay until I can find a place. She smiles, flirtatiously waves her key/card.
PAROLE OFFICER: ( ALMOST BLUSHING )
CINDY: Huh? No. I was probably at work that day.
PAROLE OFFICER: Look Cindy, you realize you can't screw up anymore right? I mean, even something minor, and you could go back to jail for a while this time. I'd hate to see that happen.
CINDY: Well yeah, but why would I steal a guitar? I've got no musical talent. I'm tone deaf. They both laugh.
PAROLE OFFICER: Heh heh, So am I. I can't carry a tune to save my life.
CINDY: Really? Wow. Cindy acts fascinated by Parole Officer's lack of musical talent. He happily goes on about it, forgetting about the Yeah, I could barely sing the Star Spangled Banner in school.
PAROLE OFFICER: Yeah, I could barely sing the Star Spangled Banner in school.
CINDY: Hey Mr. Reynolds.
JOEL: Oh, hey Cindy. You can just call me Joel.
CINDY: ( FLIRTATIOUS )
JOEL: Oh yeah. Right, that's tonight.
CINDY: Yeah, definitely. Maybe I'll see you there?
JOEL: Yeah, I think I'll probably go.
CINDY: Do you have the directions?
JOEL: I'm not sure.
CINDY: Here, I'll write it down just in
CASE: Cindy opens her purse. We see at least FIVE WALLETS, SEVERAL WATCHES, JEWELRY, etc. She takes out a pen and a piece of pink, girly stationary and starts writing.
JOEL: Um. Okay. Sure.
NATHAN: Hi there. Almost missed ya.
JOEL: Hi. I can't talk right now
NATHAN: Hey, I noticed you guys got a new pool cleaner today. How is he? We're thinking of changing Look Nathan, I gotta. Wait, you mean yesterday, don't you?
JOEL: Look Nathan, I gotta. Wait, you mean yesterday, don't you?
NATHAN: The new pool cleaner. You saw him yesterday right? Not today.
JOEL: The new pool cleaner. You saw him yesterday right? Not today.
NATHAN: No. It was today. The new guy.
JOEL: What'd he look like?
NATHAN: Blonde haired kid, about this high, good looking. Real good looking.
IN FACT: You sure it was today? Not You're absolutely sure?
JOEL: You sure it was today? Not You're absolutely sure?
NATHAN: You're absolutely sure?
JOEL: You're absolutely sure?
NATHAN: Yeah. I know it was today, because I came home for lunch. I was gone all day yesterday. Anyway, you think I could go ahead and get that Nathan leans up to scratch his back. Joel seizes the
JOEL: What the hell were you doing at my house today?!
JOEL: BRAD ( V.0. ) Look, don't worry about it bro'. I won't charge you for this one.
JOEL: Won't charge me for.? You had sex with my wife again?!
JOEL: Not gonna charge.? God damn you! Yes you are gonna charge me! I'm gonna pay you! You're not having sex with my wife for free! And I better not ever catch you anywhere near my house ever again! Joel slams down the phone. Then realizes it's a cell phone, picks it back up and hits the "End" button.
JOEL: I can't believe my wife slept with that guy.
DEAN: Well. I thought you said it wouldn't bother you.
JOEL: I guess I didn't really think about it long enough. I just wish it hadn't been so easy for him.
DEAN: Yeah, I'm tellin' ya, chicks really go wild for that Brad. ( Off Joel's look ) No, you're right. He may be a stupid, dull-witted moron, but he can get any girl he wants. Me, I had to work for it. I had to work hard, get a career going, take Suzie out a bunch of times, marry her. But not Brad. He gets to waltz into my house and have sex with my wife just like that. Oh, and by the way? That little prick was at my house again today.
JOEL: No, you're right. He may be a stupid, dull-witted moron, but he can get any girl he wants. Me, I had to work for it. I had to work hard, get a career going, take Suzie out a bunch of times, marry her. But not Brad. He gets to waltz into my house and have sex with my wife just like that. Oh, and by the way? That little prick was at my house again today.
DEAN: No shit? What was he doing?
JOEL: Take a wild guess.
DEAN: Wow. You pay a guy to do a job, then he comes back and does it for I'm not going to let him do it for free. No way. I'm paying him.
JOEL: I'm not going to let him do it for free. No way. I'm paying him.
DEAN: Really? How much?
JOEL: Oh, I don't know. The same, I guess. Why?
DEAN: Hmm. So should I get my twenty dollars from Brad then or. Joel shoots Dean an angry look.
JOEL: I don't know. I feel weird about it. Besides, she's at the party, she probably won't be home 'til You know what you need to do?
DEAN: You know what you need to do?
JOEL: ( rolling his eyes ) I don't wanna do drugs Dean.
DEAN: Look, I know I joke around a lot, but this time I'm serious. ( like a doctor ) You should try smoking a little pot. It's just an herb, it heals. Stress can kill you, and
JOEL: I get paranoid when I smoke pot.
DEAN: Not when you just smoke a little. Come on. You ever meet my friend Willie? Great guy. Really great ( as if it's a positive ) He's the guy I got that horse tranquilizer from.
JOEL: Oh, wonderful.
DEAN: I've been reading about it they're making technological advances now, coming up with great drugs that can make you happy and won't leave you with a hangover or ( holding in bong-hit ) Right on. Willie finally exhales. The exhale seems to go on way longer than humanly possible, endless amounts of pot-smoke billowing out ( accomplished with special FX ). He finally hands the bong and lighter to Joel.
WILLIE: ( holding in bong-hit ) Right on. Willie finally exhales. The exhale seems to go on way longer than humanly possible, endless amounts of pot-smoke billowing out ( accomplished with special FX ). He finally hands the bong and lighter to Joel.
JOEL: Oh, I don't know. I'm kind of a light weight. I think that's too much for me
WILLIE: ( still holding out the bong and lighter ) Come on Joel. Don't worry, this stuff isn't that strong. ( to Willie, re: Joel )
DEAN: Come on Joel. Don't worry, this stuff isn't that strong. ( to Willie, re: Joel )
JOEL: Ah, what the hell. Willie instructs Joel on the bong usage in the same condescending way a weight-lifting instructor would.
WILLIE: Okay, now this is a gravity bong. Have you ever used one before?
JOEL: Umm, I think. no.
WILLIE: Okay, pay attention. Put your thumb right here on the carburetor. When I pull the plunger up and say, "let go" I want you to let go and inhale hard. Joel's POV: Looking down the barrel of the three-foot bong with macho-man Willie holding the lighter at the bowl.
JOEL: You know, maybe I should just let
YOU GUYS: ( starting to get scary ) Bullshit! EXHALE HARD! Mostly out of fear, Joel exhales. Willie puts the bong up to Joel's face, lights it and starts lifting the plunger. Then pushes it down.
WILLIE: ( starting to get scary ) Bullshit! EXHALE HARD! Mostly out of fear, Joel exhales. Willie puts the bong up to Joel's face, lights it and starts lifting the plunger. Then pushes it down.
JOEL: Long pause.
DEAN: Joel's POV: looking from Dean to Willie. Willie sits there with red eyes barely open. Willie turns slowly to Joel.
WILLIE: Oh, I thought somebody said Willie looks at Joel, stone-faced, adding even further to Joel's paranoia. He stares at Joel for a long beat. Then, in an instant, he's right up in Joel's face.
JOEL: Oh, I thought somebody said Willie looks at Joel, stone-faced, adding even further to Joel's paranoia. He stares at Joel for a long beat. Then, in an instant, he's right up in Joel's face.
WILLIE: Joel jumps back, scared shitless. Willie starts laughing his ass off.
BWAAAAAAAAAAAH!!!: Joel jumps back, scared shitless. Willie starts laughing his ass off.
WILLIE: Haaaah ha. The look on your face!
JOEL: ( fake, timid laugh ) Yeah, heh heh.
DEAN: Hey Joel, why don't you call that chick now?
JOEL: What time is it?
WILLIE: Time for you to call her and finally get laid man! ( handing him the phone ) Come on!
DEAN: It's twelve thirty. She might be back by now.
JOEL: Joel gets the phone number out of his pocket.
WILLIE: So what's this chick look like?
JOEL: Oh, she's got brown hair. Pretty hot. Kind of working-class What do you mean by that? offended Willie or not.
WILLIE: What do you mean by that? offended Willie or not.
JOEL: Umm. Oh you know,.
WILLIE: Is she kind of slutty lookin'?
JOEL: Beat. Joel's not sure if that was the right answer either.
WILLIE: Alright! That's how I like 'em.
JOEL: ( UNCOMFORTABLE LAUGH )
DEAN: Alright. At least you know she's Try her again. Come on. Joel hits redial.
JOEL: Try her again. Come on. Joel hits redial.
WILLIE: Try her again. Come on. Joel hits redial.
JOEL: Still busy. Man, what kind of person doesn't have call-waiting.
WILLIE: I don't have call-waiting. I hate call-waiting. Every time I hear that goddamn clicking sound, I wanna put my fist through someone's Beat. Once again, Joel doesn't know whether to shit or wind his watch. Willie stares at him, then
WILLIE: Haaa ha! Man you really do get paranoid when you're stoned. Seriously though, I fuckin' hate Willie grabs the phone.
JOEL: ( NERVOUS CHUCKLE )
WILLIE: Here let me dial. You're too Willie grabs the piece of paper with Cindy's number. He looks at it, starts to dial, then pauses, realizing Willie looks up at Joel, with slowly building rage, then hangs up the phone.
WILLIE: I'll tell you why you're getting a busy signal. This is my number.
JOEL: Huh? But. Oh. You're joking right? Trying to make me paranoid? Joel waits for Willie to start cracking up. He doesn't. He just continues glaring at Joel. We hear the FRONT DOOR UNLOCK. Everyone looks. CINDY enters.
JOEL: Oh. You're joking right? Trying to make me paranoid? Joel waits for Willie to start cracking up. He doesn't. He just continues glaring at Joel. We hear the FRONT DOOR UNLOCK. Everyone looks. CINDY enters.
CINDY: Hi. Sorry I'm late, I.
DEAN: Well, it looks like you guys got a lot to talk about here so I think I'm just gonna go ahead and take off. Later guys. Dean bolts. Willie moves in closer on Joel. Joel starts to leave, but Willie blocks him.
WILLIE: Kinda slutty? Willie grabs Joel and throws him against the wall. Joel tries to make a break for the door, but Willie hauls off and punches him across the face. The ass-kicking begins as we
SUZIE: Oh my God Joel, are you alright? What happened?
JOEL: I'm fine. I'm fine. I just ah. got my ass kicked. Go back to What? By who? What happened?
SUZIE: What? By who? What happened?
JOEL: It was just. some guy over at Let me drive you to the hospital. You need to get checked out.
SUZIE: Let me drive you to the hospital. You need to get checked out.
JOEL: No. I'll be fine. I just want to sleep right now, okay?
SUZIE: You sure you're okay? It looks like your nose is broken, and your
EYE: ( AGITATED )
JOEL: ( AGITATED )
SECRETARY: Hi Joel. Brian wanted to see you
BRIAN: Hi. Did you talk to Step yet?
JOEL: He isn't returning my calls.
BRIAN: Shit. We've got problems. He did hire a lawyer Joe Adler he's that personal injury lawyer you see on all the bus-stop benches. You oughtta see this guy. He's a real piece of shi ( noticing Joel's face ) Oh man, what happened to you?
JOEL: Oh, I fell down some stairs.
BRIAN: Damn. Well anyway, I hate to say this, but I think we're screwed. There's no way this Adler guy is gonna settle for anything less then bankrupting us. Says he'll sue us into the stone age.
JOEL: ( clutches his head
MISERABLE ): Shit. I gotta talk to Step. Brian looks at Joel's bruised face.
BRIAN: Man, everyone's getting hurt. Cindy came in with a black eye today. You hear how she got it?
JOEL: Ah. no.
BRIAN: Step did it. Can you believe that?
JOEL: No he!
BRIAN: That's what she told Mary.
JOEL: But. Step? Does he even know Apparently they've been going out.
BRIAN: Apparently they've been going out.
JOEL: I know, it's weird. They didn't even meet here. They met at a grocery store or something. Just a total coincidence. Joel looks down at Cindy on the production floor, his mind Anyway, we're gonna have to hire a couple of new people because
BRIAN: I know, it's weird. They didn't even meet here. They met at a grocery store or something. Just a total coincidence. Joel looks down at Cindy on the production floor, his mind Anyway, we're gonna have to hire a couple of new people because
BRIAN: Anyway, we're gonna have to hire a couple of new people because
CINDY'S QUITTING: Yep. And if it's okay with you, I'd like to go ahead and fire Fire Hector? What for?
JOEL: Yep. And if it's okay with you, I'd like to go ahead and fire Fire Hector? What for?
BRIAN: Yep. And if it's okay with you, I'd like to go ahead and fire Fire Hector? What for?
JOEL: Fire Hector? What for?
BRIAN: You know, Mary's purse? Sylvia's wallet? It's gotta be him. Who else could it be? Joel looks down at Cindy with growing suspicion.
JOEL: No. Don't fire him. Just trust me on this. Give him another week. If anything else is stolen, then you can fire him.
BRIAN: ( PUZZLED )
JOEL: Okay, thanks.
DEAN: Hey man. Sorry I bailed on you like that last night. It's just that I don't like to get involved in other people's personal shit, you know what I mean?
JOEL: I didn't even know Willie had a girlfriend. She must be new. Man, Willie looked pissed.
DEAN: I didn't even know Willie had a girlfriend. She must be new. Man, Willie looked pissed.
JOEL: He did take a swing at me Dean. Several swings. In fact, he beat the living shit out of me.
DEAN: Whoa, really?
JOEL: Wow. Man, that really goes to show you this town is smaller than you think. You really gotta be Joel hangs up and walks out of his office, past his I'm not feeling well. I'm going to go home early.
DEAN: Wow. Man, that really goes to show you this town is smaller than you think. You really gotta be Joel hangs up and walks out of his office, past his I'm not feeling well. I'm going to go home early.
JOEL: I'm not feeling well. I'm going to go home early.
JOEL: Joel slams on the brakes, turns around, chases Brad's truck down and cuts him off, forcing him to stop. They both get out of their vehicles. Joel is livid.
JOEL: What the hell were you doing on my street again?!
BRAD: Dude, you weren't supposed to be home for another four hours Whoa, what happened to your face?
JOEL: ( trying to improvise a tough, snappy comeback, but can't quite make it
WORK ): ( MORE ) JOEL ( CONT'D )
BRAD: For what? Suzie let me in. Joel is stumped Brad actually has a point.
JOEL: What the hell is wrong with you anyway? Do you do this with all your clients just keep coming back and hanging around?
BRAD: I don't know. This is my first What?! I thought you were a Look man, I know she's your wife an' shit, but you might as well know I think we're in love.
JOEL: What?! I thought you were a Look man, I know she's your wife an' shit, but you might as well know I think we're in love.
BRAD: Look man, I know she's your wife an' shit, but you might as well know I think we're in love.
JOEL: In love?!
BRAD: I don't think so dude.
JOEL: Oh, you don't think so "dude?" Well did you ever think about this: she doesn't even know that I paid you to have sex with her did that cross your small mind?
BRAD: How about I go home right now and tell her? Tell her you did it for the money. How about that loverboy? Brad suddenly looks worried. This really freaks him out.
JOEL: How about I go home right now and tell her? Tell her you did it for the money. How about that loverboy? Brad suddenly looks worried. This really freaks him out.
BRAD: You wouldn't do that.
JOEL: You don't think so? Watch me.
BRAD: ( realizing he's serious ) Joel starts back to his car.
BRAD: Look man, we really have a special thing going on. Please don't mess it up. Joel stops.
JOEL: Don't mess it up?! You're talking about my wife! My house! Stupid- Joel gets in his car and starts it.
BRAD: ( calls out to him ) Dude, you can't do this to me.
JOEL: Oh yes I can. Joel peels out, drives half a block and turns into his INT. JOEL'S HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER Joel walks in, still pissed off. Suzie is sitting on the couch, a little surprised to see him.
SUZIE: Oh hi. You're home early.
JOEL: ( COLD )
JOEL: So how was that new pool cleaner? she plays it cool.
SUZIE: Um. What do you mean?
JOEL: What do you think I mean?. Did he do a good job cleaning the pool?
SUZIE: Ah. well
JOEL: Did he get all the. leaves? It doesn't really look that clean. I mean I'm looking at it, and I'd say it's pretty goddamn filthy. Did the guy even clean it at all? It sure doesn't look like it.
SUZIE: ( NERVOUS )
JOEL: I think he did a horrible job. I don't think we should use him Suzie watches Joel leave, a slight look of guilt on her face.
SUZIE: Suzie watches Joel leave, a slight look of guilt on her face.
JOEL: Suzie watches Joel leave, a slight look of guilt on her face.
SUZIE: Are you all right, Joel? You want an aspirin or anything?
JOEL: INT. JOEL'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - MOMENTS LATER head, can't believe all this.
STEP: Wow, I don't think you've ever been to my house before. Have you?
JOEL: ( talking above the TV ) Yeah, I don't think so. I would've This is my half brother Phil. Joel starts to motion "don't get up," then realizes that's not happening anyway. Phil nods.
STEP: This is my half brother Phil. Joel starts to motion "don't get up," then realizes that's not happening anyway. Phil nods.
JOEL: Hi. Hey Step, can we talk in another room.
STEP: Sure, let's go out back.
STEP: You know, my lawyer told me not to talk to you.
JOEL: Oh, no. No, I'm just kind of curious about. ah. So you've been going out with Cindy, huh?
STEP: Yes sir. She's my girlfriend. We might even get married after all this lawsuit-settlement stuff gets worked out.
JOEL: .so some of the guys at work are saying you gave Cindy that black What? That ain't true at all.
STEP: What? That ain't true at all.
JOEL: Yeah, I know it's not.
STEP: She got it from falling down some Hmm. Look, you might wanna be careful with Cindy.
JOEL: Hmm. Look, you might wanna be careful with Cindy.
STEP: ( DEFENSIVE )
JOEL: Well, I'm not sure how to put this, but. You know, you got a lot of money coming your way with this settlement. You might wanna be
CAREFUL: Oh no. No, she didn't even know about that 'til after we started going out.
STEP: Oh no. No, she didn't even know about that 'til after we started going out.
JOEL: You sure about that?
STEP: Oh yeah. I didn't tell her about it for a while 'cuz I was kind of embarrassed, you know? You don't tell a girl you just met that you lost one of your balls. Especially a girl as hot as Cindy.
JOEL: ( DELICATELY )
STEP: That's her ex. She broke up with him. She's gonna move out. She just needs to get all her stuff outta there.
JOEL: You sure about that?
STEP: Oh yeah. She's moving in with me.
JOEL: Oh. Hmm.
STEP: Look, I know Cindy's got some problems, but she means well. She's the best thing that ever happened to me.
JOEL: Well, okay. If you say so. Another thing you just might want to watch your back. Some of the guys at work who think you gave Cindy the black eye were talking about paying you a visit you know, getting even.
STEP: Oh. Well I'm not worried about ( dead-serious, proud ) I could kick anyone's ass at that whole company.
SUZIE: No Brad, we can't. I'm sorry, but we have to stop doing this.
BRAD: It's not right. I feel horrible. Besides, I think Joel's getting suspicious. And you gotta start cleaning the pool too.
SUZIE: It's not right. I feel horrible. Besides, I think Joel's getting suspicious. And you gotta start cleaning the pool too.
BRAD: But I've never felt this way about anyone before. And I've been with a lot of chicks.
SUZIE: ( TURNED OFF )
BRAD: Uh. This doesn't mean we can't still see each other though, right?
SUZIE: Ah, yes it does.
BRAD: Because of all the things I just Do you need me to say them again?
SUZIE: Because of all the things I just Do you need me to say them again?
BRAD: Can I see you tomorrow?
SUZIE: ( PLEADING )
BRAD: ( PLEADING )
SUZIE: No. Look, you gotta go Brad. Joel could be home any second.
BRAD: I'll call you tomorrow.
SUZIE: ( just trying to get rid of
HIM ): Okay. Okay, just go and we'll talk Brad leans to kiss her, she pushed him away and he finally God, what a moron.
SUZIE: ( TO HERSELF )
BRIAN: So. you ready?
JOEL: The meeting with Step's lawyer. Or lawyers I should say. It's today Oh shit. Alright. Joel drags himself out of the chair.
BRIAN: The meeting with Step's lawyer. Or lawyers I should say. It's today Oh shit. Alright. Joel drags himself out of the chair.
JOEL: Oh shit. Alright. Joel drags himself out of the chair.
ADLER: .You see, if both his balls had been knocked clean off, he would be a good case, but not a great case: A man with no balls is no man at all. He's a freak. He's barely human. He's gross. And a jury will never feel like they can walk in the shoes of a ball-less, neutered, he/she freak. But Step. He's still got one ball - barely. He's still a man. A man who's very manhood has been jeopardized, but still a man. And that manhood, that very sense of what you are as a human being is hanging by a thread. Jesus, you can't get more dramatic than that. That brave ball, hanging on for dear life, hanging on for justice, is going to be the hero of this trial. I'm tellin' ya this Step guy is the fuckin' Holy Grail, the Powerball Jackpot. And you all laughed at me when I bought those bus bench ads. But I knew the asses of those poor slobs that sit on those benches and ride those sweaty, stinking, cattle cars are our future. And I Joel and Brian walk in.
ADLER: Oh, hello. I'm Joe Adler. Everybody starts introducing each other.
RORY: .And when they sell the company, Joel and Brian are gonna be the one's who get rich, and
MARY: And we're the ones doing all the That's right.
GABRIELLE: That's right.
RORY: It's bullshit man. We should get a piece of it. I work my ass off.
MARY: Gabrielle and I work harder than anybody. I should be making what Brian makes. If you add up all the crates I move, I lift 10,000 pounds a day. Minimum.
GABRIELLE: That's right. Here he's gonna make a million dollars, and we're the ones who do everything. I went to college. For three years.
MARY: If we quit, this place couldn't run. They wouldn't be able to sell this place for anything. JIM, a tall skinny 50-something guy with a ridiculously big mustache and a little paunch, chimes in.
JIM: That's why what we should do is, is we should all go on strike demand stock in the company before it sells. If General Mills knew we were on strike, they wouldn't buy this place until the strike was over. That way they'd have to give us stock. Jim points to his head, gives everyone a "how's that" nod. It starts to build steam.
RORY: That's right man. We should do it. We should strike.
MARY: That's right. I could get a job at Gemco like that. At Gemco, all the employees are owners even says so on the name tags.
GABRIELLE: Mmm hmm. I could get a job at Southwest Airlines.
ADLER: Ok gentlemen. We've gone through everything and the only way we would even begin to consider a settlement would be to the tune of the number you see on the bottom of page 18. Does everyone have this? the number.
JOEL: ( so pissed he can barely get the words out ) We don't have this much money! Not even close!
ADLER: Not in cash you don't. Of course not. But if you were to sell off your assets: the property lease, the equipment, the
JOEL: What the ff Are you shitting me!? That would bankrupt us!
BRIAN: This is what I've been trying to tell you Joel.
JOEL: If you think I'm just going to give up this entire company that I built from the ground up Adler jumps up, dripping with phoney, forced indignation.
ADLER: How about what my client gave up!? His testicles! How about that!? He walks over to the door.
ADLER: In fact, I'll make a deal with you - - we will drop this case right now if you come over here and put your testicles right here ( indicates the space between the door and the
HINGES ): and let me slam this door like Adler SLAMS the door ridiculously hard.
ADLER: Go ahead. We can settle this right now call it even. I will drop this case right now if you let me slam your balls in this door,
CLIENT!: It was an accident!
JOEL: It was an accident!
ADLER: Not according to our investigation. We believe that, in fact, there was gross negligence.
RORY: I heard those guys up there are the guys from General Mills.
MARY: Mmm hmm.
JIM: See, now they're probably up there negotiating right now cuttin' up the pie that we baked. That's what it looks like to me. The employees all nod in agreement. Employees POV: Adler pointing at his balls, pointing to the door again, about to slam it. One of his lawyers stops him.
RORY: We gotta act fast. They could be about to close the deal.
JIM: Yeah, and leave us out in the cold.
RORY: Yeah, then it's too late. If they've already sold it we can't get a piece of it. We gotta act fast. We need to do one of those walk outs.
JIM: Well, we better do it now.
RORY: Okay, who's in? We need a show of force. Come on, it's now or We PAN around the employees as the idea builds momentum, ending on HECTOR, who looks completely confused by it all.
ADLER: Okay then, let me go back to my previous offer: I will gladly come down on that price I'll come all the way down to zero and drop this case if you go over there right now and slam your testicles in that door! Because
JOEL: I don't wanna slam my testicles in the door! I want you to be reasonable! You won't even budge one penny! Come on!
ADLER: Like I say, if you slam your
JOEL: I'll slam your balls in the door!
ADLER: I'm sorry, did you just threaten Brian puts his hand on Joel, motions him to calm down.
BRIAN: Look, we need to cool off a minute. We'll be right back. Brian leads Joel out of the room.
JOEL: I don't need this. I'm going home.
JOEL: Yeah?. What? But they are ill-prepared. No one knows who should talk first. It's incredibly awkward. They all look at each other and mutter things like, "go ahead" "you first". Finally.
RORY: Umm. We were just uh.
JIM: Well, Rory was talking about how you guys are doing this deal with General Mills and we just think that ah. We were considering the idea of ah.
RORY: Well, we just think that we should maybe get a piece of it, you know cuz we do all the work. And if we don't. um. Joel's in no mood for this. He goes off on them.
JOEL: You know what? Fine. Fine. You're all in charge all of you. ( gestures to all the
EMPLOYEES ): As of now. You run the goddamn place. Go ahead. In fact, you can go up there right now and meet with Adler. He may slam your balls in the door, but woohoo! You're the Joel storms out, leaving the employees standing there. A BICKERING MATCH erupts over who was supposed to do the talking, who said they would say what, who backed down first, etc. "I was gonna say something but you interrupted," "You didn't say anything when he was leaving, so I thought you were quitting. I would've stood up to him." As the argument dies down, one by one they all go back to their posts, muttering.
SUZIE: Listen Joel, there's something I have to tell you. I think we need to be honest with each other. Suzie sits down.
JOEL: You banged the pool cleaner.
SUZIE: Suzie is stunned.
JOEL: That's what you're trying to tell me right? You had sex with Brad?
SUZIE: You knew?
JOEL: Yes I knew. I hired him.
SUZIE: Well I know you hired him, but how did you know about
JOEL: I don't mean I hired him to clean the pool, I mean I hired him to have sex with you.
SUZIE: He's a gigolo Suzie. Suzie is stupefied.
JOEL: He's a gigolo Suzie. Suzie is stupefied.
SUZIE: But. what. Why? Joel is so fed up, he just tells her everything.
JOEL: I hired him to have an affair with you so that I could have an affair without feeling guilty. I was really drunk and on some kind of horse tranquilizer and
SUZIE: Brad was getting paid?. ( disbelief, hurt ) So you've been paying Brad this whole time? All fifteen times?!
JOEL: FIFTEEN TIMES?! Jesus Christ Joel sinks into his chair, shaking his head.
SUZIE: You wanted to have an affair with another woman?
JOEL: Yes. But I didn't. Suzie paces around for a moment, reeling, processing all this. Then, decisively,
SUZIE: You asshole.
JOEL: Oh, I'm the asshole?
SUZIE: Yes! How could you?
JOEL: ( LAUGHS )
SUZIE: None of this would've happened if you hadn't hired him.
JOEL: Okay. I'll admit, I made a big mistake. I was drunk, on drugs, stressed, sexually frustrated and I shouldn't have hired a male prostitute to seduce you. But if you had simply been faithful, none of this would've happened. Suzie just looks at him for a beat.
SUZIE: You're sick, you know that? Beat. Joel can't really argue this point.
JOEL: What do you see in Brad anyway? He's borderline retarded. You probably could've been arrested for having sex with a guy that dumb.
SUZIE: That's it. I'm leaving. Suzie heads for the door. Joel follows after her.
JOEL: No. You're not leaving me. I'm leaving you!
SUZIE: Joel opens the door, about to storm out, only to find NATHAN, standing right there about to ring the doorbell.
NATHAN: Oh, hey guys. Glad I caught ya. You guys hardly ever answer the door. Heh heh. They are both so flustered, they can barely talk.
SUZIE: Now's not a good time Nathan. Joel turns around, storms off back into the house.
NATHAN: Oh, you guys goin' somewhere?
SUZIE: No. Look, we can't talk right now.
NATHAN: Well, you think I could go ahead and get that check from ya then? I'm just trying to balance my checkbook here.
SUZIE: Now's not a good time.
NATHAN: When would be a good time, you I don't know.
SUZIE: I don't know.
NATHAN: See the thing is
SUZIE: Okay tomorrow.
NATHAN: Great, what time?
SUZIE: I don't know. Just come by tomorrow. I can't talk now.
NATHAN: Okay great. And if you could just go ahead and have that check, that'd be great. It's a hundred and ten. That's two plates at
SUZIE: Yeah, Okay. Suzie shuts the door, cutting him off.
BRAD: Hey man. I know you probably want to kick my ass, but
JOEL: I couldn't kick your ass if I wanted to. You're a good 10 years younger than me, and I'm a pussy. So why don't you just leave me I just wanted to tell you, I'm not gonna see Suzie anymore. You don't have to worry. Joel keeps drinking his beer, stares straight ahead.
BRAD: I just wanted to tell you, I'm not gonna see Suzie anymore. You don't have to worry. Joel keeps drinking his beer, stares straight ahead.
BRAD: The last time I was over there, she broke it off; told me to quit coming over. She said she was gonna tell you everything you know, about us. She's really into you dude. I guess that's why she married you an' shit. You're a lucky guy. Sorry if I messed shit Beat. Joel takes another swig.
JOEL: Why'd you have to get hung up on Suzie? You could have any girl you Yeah, but I want Suzie. And I can't have her.
BRAD: Yeah, but I want Suzie. And I can't have her.
JOEL: You had her fifteen times.
BRAD: Yeah, but she doesn't love me dude. It's just not the same. Anyway, just wanted to tell you that.
JOEL: Well. You told me.
BRAD: Alright, later. Brad starts to leave. Then he stops, turns around.
BRAD: Oh, one more thing. I quit my landscaping job. And I don't think I'm really cut out to be a gigolo. So I was wondering if you had any openings over there at your extract place?
JOEL: ( EXASPERATED SIGH )
BRAD: Okay. Sorry man. Brad walks away. Joel stares at his beer for a beat, thinking. He calls out to Brad.
JOEL: Hey Brad?. Brad stops.
BRAD: I don't know. Maybe come by the office tomorrow. Fill out an application. I'll see what I can Cool. Thanks man.
JOEL: I don't know. Maybe come by the office tomorrow. Fill out an application. I'll see what I can Cool. Thanks man.
BRAD: Cool. Thanks man.
BRIAN: We're screwed. General Mills has pretty much withdrawn the offer pending a really favorable settlement with Step. ( shaking his head ) Not only do we not sell the company, we could wind up bankrupt.
JOEL: ( muttering to himself ) So I don't sell the company, don't get the money, I'm bankrupt, I don't get Cindy, I paid a guy to have sex with my wife, and she actually did it.
BRIAN: Excuse me?
JOEL: EXT. JOEL'S HOUSE - POOL DAY Suzie is trying to clean the pool herself, struggling with the long pole with the net at the end. She looks miserable.
SUZIE: ( MUTTERS )
NATHAN: Why are you cleaning the pool yourself? That new guy didn't work Yeah, didn't work out.
SUZIE: Yeah, didn't work out.
NATHAN: Boy, you just can't get good help, So, did you get a chance to write that check?
SUZIE: So, did you get a chance to write that check?
NATHAN: So, did you get a chance to write that check?
SUZIE: Look Nathan, Joel and I aren't going to that dinner okay? Nathan acts deeply disappointed.
NATHAN: Well gee, I wish you would've told me that before I went and bought the tickets.
SUZIE: Joel never agreed to this Nathan, and neither did I.
NATHAN: Well, it sure sounded like you guys were going. Leslie was gonna talk to you about it, but you didn't return our calls. I mean, I already bought these tickets. They're nonrefundable. I really wish you guys had been a little more clear with me. It's the last straw. Suzie has had enough. She unleashes all her pent-up aggression on Nathan.
SUZIE: Okay, let me be really clear with you then. When we say "I don't think so," or even "I'm not sure," that means "no." Why can't you understand that?
NATHAN: Well, I just
SUZIE: Shut up! In fact, let me be even more clear with you. We don't like you! Is that clear enough? You're dull, you never shut up, you never listen, and we don't want anything to do with you ever again! Nathan freezes, in some kind of state of shock. He starts to shake a little. Suzie just keeps going it feels too good to stop.
SUZIE: Is that clear enough for you Nathan?! Is that.? Nathan starts to go into some kind of seizure.
SUZIE: ( WORRIED )
JOEL: ( TO HIMSELF )
CINDY: Oh. Joel. I ah,.
JOEL: What're you.? What's up? How'd you know I was here?
CINDY: What're you.? What's up? How'd you know I was here?
JOEL: Ah, actually, I'm staying here too. Down on the first floor, around the back. I thought I saw you so I Well, come in. Joel enters, stands in the living room. Cindy heads in to the kitchen.
CINDY: Well, come in. Joel enters, stands in the living room. Cindy heads in to the kitchen.
JOEL: No thanks. Cindy comes back in with a Diet Coke.
CINDY: Have a seat. Joel remains standing, looking at the purse.
JOEL: That's Mary's purse. Isn't it?
CINDY: Right there. That's Mary's purse.
JOEL: Right there. That's Mary's purse.
CINDY: Oh that? No, that's mine. So how are things at work?
JOEL: That's Mary's purse. You stole it, didn't you?
CINDY: No. It probably just looks like it. There's a lot of those.
JOEL: I've never seen another one. You probably have Sylvia's wallet in here somewhere too, don't you? And everything else that's been stolen from my employees.
CINDY: Joel, are you okay?
JOEL: No, I'm not. That's Mary's purse Goddammit! Okay? Everyone blamed Hector. He almost got fired. Doesn't that bother you?
CINDY: ( innocent, sweet ) Joel, I don't know what you're
JOEL: Hector! Hard working guy, never did anything wrong. And what are you doing with Step? You're trying to screw him out of his settlement money aren't you?
CINDY: I have no idea what you're talking Yes you do! You're the only reason he's suing us aren't you? You know how much work it took for me to build up that company? You just don't care about anybody do you? What are you, some kind of Cindy looks like Joel might be getting to her.
JOEL: Yes you do! You're the only reason he's suing us aren't you? You know how much work it took for me to build up that company? You just don't care about anybody do you? What are you, some kind of Cindy looks like Joel might be getting to her.
JOEL: I bet Cindy's not even your real name is it? Who are you? Where the hell are you from? Cindy, still looking away, doesn't answer.
JOEL: ( COMPOSES HIMSELF )
JOEL: And I'm taking this purse with me. If it really is yours, you can call the police and tell 'em I stole it. In fact, I'm gonna call the police and report it. Joel walks towards the door. Then Cindy slumps down on the couch, mutters something, still looking down at the floor, her voice cracking slightly.
CINDY: Please don't. Joel stops.
JOEL: ( still looking down ) Please don't report it to the police. I'm on probation. I'll go to jail. For a long time.
CINDY: ( still looking down ) Please don't report it to the police. I'm on probation. I'll go to jail. For a long time.
JOEL: Well. Maybe you should've thought about that before you started ripping off my employees. Joel starts to open the door.
CINDY: Joel? Please? I'll leave Step alone. I promise. He'll drop the Joel considers this.
JOEL: How do I know that?
CINDY: You can keep the purse. If I don't leave him alone; if he doesn't drop the lawsuit, then you can report me. Please? Hmm. I guess that ah. Do you have Sylvia's wallet, and Jim's watch? Can I get those too? Beat. Cindy nods, still looking down. Joel considers it.
JOEL: Hmm. I guess that ah. Do you have Sylvia's wallet, and Jim's watch? Can I get those too? Beat. Cindy nods, still looking down. Joel considers it.
JOEL: Well. Okay then. I guess that And I guess you just admitted that you stole the purse. That's good, I guess. A step in the right Joel sits down on the couch also. With her head still down, Cindy is weeping quietly. Joel doesn't notice, looking straight ahead.
JOEL: So what's your deal anyway?. I mean, how did you end up like this? Joel finally looks over, notices that she's crying. He's caught off guard.
JOEL: .Ah. Cindy? Cindy breaks down and starts bawling.
JOEL: I'm sorry, I was just curious, you know, how a person ends up like. Cindy suddenly starts BAWLING hysterically. Joel stands there awkwardly, not sure if he should hug her or comfort her in any way.
JOEL: Never mind. I'm sorry. Joel tentatively puts a comforting arm around her and she leans in to him, crying on his chest. He puts his other arm around her and she snuggles in even closer. As her crying gradually subsides she snuggles in even more. Finally, she lifts her head and they start kissing. As they get hot and heavy we
JOEL: He looks around, realizes he's alone. Then suddenly looks Oh shit! He scrambles for his pants, then looks relieved as he realizes his wallet is still there. He sets down the pants, then after a beat, picks them up again, checks inside the wallet and sees there's still cash and credit cards. Then he looks up at the chest of drawers and sees: Mary's purse, Sylvia's wallet, and a watch, placed side by side. He lies back in bed, and shuts his eyes, grinning again.
MARY: ( looks at her watch ) Joel hasn't been in all morning. can you believe that?
GABRIELLE: If we come in late, we get fired. And here we're working our tails off, and he's gonna get rich. Joel walks in, bright-eyed and cheery, greeting people. He walks over to Mary carrying her PURSE.
JOEL: Here you go Mary.
MARY: Can you believe that? Blaming Cindy just to protect Hector.
BRIAN: Step's here to see you.
JOEL: Really? Bring him in.
BRIAN: No, he's outside. At the loading dock. Wants to talk to you alone back there for some reason.
JOEL: Hi Step.
STEP: How you doin'? How's your, ah.
JOEL: How you doin'? How's your, ah.
STEP: ( looking down at his
CROTCH ): Oh it's okay. Some days it still hurts, but they've got me on some pills. It's not too bad I guess.
JOEL: Well. that's good. They both sit down on the edge of the dock.
STEP: Look, ah. Cindy left me. Joel's nods, not surprised, but sympathetic.
JOEL: Wow. Bummer.
STEP: Yeah, it is a bummer. You know, I thought the worst part was having my balls knocked off, but you know what the worse part is? Dealin' with all this bullshit. I'm sick of that Adler guy tellin' me what to do. He's a real dick.
JOEL: Yeah, he sure is.
STEP: The truth is, I just want to have my old life back I just want to go back to work. I'm a workin' man; that's what I do.
JOEL: Yeah. I'm beginning to think I might be the same way. I'm a little worried about what I'd do with too much time on my hands.
STEP: I just lay around and watch TV all Yeah,. I think I do a lot worse.
JOEL: Yeah,. I think I do a lot worse.
STEP: The problem is, if I bankrupt the company, there won't be a job to go back to.
JOEL: You don't have to bankrupt the Yeah, but then if I drop the lawsuit, you'll sell the company, and the new company might not hire Well, maybe I don't have to sell the company. You know I've been thinking; all these years I've been building this company, dreaming about the day I could sell it and retire, but what would I really do if I retired? It's like that old saying it's not about the destination, it's about the Step just stares at him blankly, he lost him.
STEP: Yeah, but then if I drop the lawsuit, you'll sell the company, and the new company might not hire Well, maybe I don't have to sell the company. You know I've been thinking; all these years I've been building this company, dreaming about the day I could sell it and retire, but what would I really do if I retired? It's like that old saying it's not about the destination, it's about the Step just stares at him blankly, he lost him.
JOEL: Well, maybe I don't have to sell the company. You know I've been thinking; all these years I've been building this company, dreaming about the day I could sell it and retire, but what would I really do if I retired? It's like that old saying it's not about the destination, it's about the Step just stares at him blankly, he lost him.
JOEL: I guess what I'm saying is, too much free time might not be such a good thing like that old saying, idle hands are the Devil's Step's never heard that one either.
STEP: I'm sorry, I don't do much book What I'm saying is, I'm thinking maybe I won't sell the company.
JOEL: What I'm saying is, I'm thinking maybe I won't sell the company.
STEP: that is, if you dropped the lawsuit. and remember, you'll still get that insurance money probably a couple hundred thousand. What do you think?
JOEL: that is, if you dropped the lawsuit. and remember, you'll still get that insurance money probably a couple hundred thousand. What do you think?
STEP: Hmm. That sounds fair. But under one condition.
JOEL: What's that?
STEP: You make me floor manager.
JOEL: They shake hands.
JOEL: Hold the line! Mary shuts off the conveyer belt.
JOEL: Okay, listen up everybody. ( Waits for them to settle ) I've decided not to sell the Gasps and murmurs among the employees.
JOEL: And I'm making Step the new Floor More gasps and murmurs.
JOEL: And if anyone doesn't like it, I hear they're hiring over at Gemco. But just remember, at Gemco, the owner doesn't know your names; you never even meet him, he's at an office up in Chicago somewhere and you get an auto- response if you try to email him to complain about anything. Here, you can come up to my office any time you have a problem. Thanks. Joel walks off. Brian catches up with him.
BRIAN: Huh? You're not selling?
JOEL: It's about the journey Brian. The ANGLE on Mary. She and Gabrielle start right back up.
MARY: You know, if Joel's going to put him in charge, we should go on strike. You know, at Gemco, the union handles the strikes and you don't even have to PULL OUT as Step cuts her off.
STEP: Quit yapping and get back to work or you're fired. Step walks off maybe pops a testosterone pill. Mary and Gabrielle keep muttering and shaking their heads. LONG PULL OUT as things get back to normal at the factory.
JOEL: Hi. You doing okay?
SUZIE: Yeah, I'm okay.
JOEL: I heard you were right there when it happened. That must've been It was horrible Joel. He came over to ask for that check, and I Suzie breaks down, starts CRYING.
SUZIE: It was horrible Joel. He came over to ask for that check, and I Suzie breaks down, starts CRYING.
JOEL: It's okay, it's not your fault. It's not your fault. Suzie's crying subsides a little.
SUZIE: It could happen to any of us Joel. Any of us could have an aneurism. We could die at any moment.
JOEL: Yeah, I know. I know. But we probably won't. It'll be alright. Suzie starts to regain her composure. They stand there for a beat.
JOEL: You wanna go get something to eat. or something? Beat. Suzie still sniffling a little.
SUZIE: Yeah, okay. Sure.
JOEL: They walk a little further. Joel looks at the Chapel nearby.
SUZIE: They walk a little further. Joel looks at the Chapel nearby.
JOEL: Maybe we should've been married in a Church like that one. Instead of the Botanical Gardens.
SUZIE: I thought you liked the Botanical Yeah, but. a church just seems more I don't know official.
JOEL: Yeah, but. a church just seems more I don't know official.
SUZIE: You think it would've made a I don't know. So, are we still Well, legally yes.
JOEL: I don't know. So, are we still Well, legally yes.
SUZIE: Well, legally yes.
JOEL: I mean otherwise.
SUZIE: Hmmm. We can talk about it I They walk for a beat.
JOEL: They walk for a beat.
JOEL: You know, this is really bad, but. Oh never mind.
SUZIE: Well, as I was looking down at Nathan there, I was thinking. That's the longest I've ever seen him with his mouth shut. Suzie LAUGHS in spite of herself.
JOEL: Well, as I was looking down at Nathan there, I was thinking. That's the longest I've ever seen him with his mouth shut. Suzie LAUGHS in spite of herself.
SUZIE: They walk off into the distance as we
THE END: Writers : Mike Judge
