as she walks across the courtyard toward the brick building. The WOMAN is JOANNE GALLOWAY, a navy lawyer in her early 30's. She's bright, attractive, impulsive, and has a tendency to speak quickly. If she had any friends, they'd call her JO. As she walks, she mutters to herself .
I'm requesting. I'm. Captain, I'd like to request that I be the attorney assigned to rep I'd like to request that it be myself who is assigned to represent "That it be myself who is assigned to represent"? .Good, Jo, that's confidence inspiring.
Jo, come on in.
Thank you, sir.
Captain West, this is Lt. Commander Galloway. Jo, you know Mike Lawrence.
Yes sir. Captain, I appreciate your seeing me on such short notice.
I understand there was some trouble over the weekend down in Cuba.
Yes sir. This past Friday evening. Two marines, Corporal Harold Dawson and Private Louden Downey, entered the barracks room of a PFC William Santiago and assaulted him. Santiago died at the base hospital approximately an hour later. The NIS agent who took their statements maintains they were trying to prevent Santiago from naming them in a fenceline shooting incident. They're scheduled to have a hearing down in Cuba at 4What's the problem?
Dawson and Downey are both recruiting poster marines and Santiago was known to be a screw-up. I was thinking that it sounded an awful lot like a code red.
I'd like them moved up to Washington and assigned counsel. Someone who can really look into this. Someone who possesses not only the legal skill, but a familiarity with the inner workings of the military. In short, Captain, I'd like to suggest that. I be the one who, that it be me who is assigned to represent them. 
I'd like them moved up to Washington and assigned counsel. Someone who can really look into this. Someone who possesses not only the legal skill, but a familiarity with the inner workings of the military. In short, Captain, I'd like to suggest that. I be the one who, that it be me who is assigned to represent them.
Joanne, why don't you get yourself a cup of coffee.
Thank you, sir, I'm fine.
Joanne, I'd like you to leave the room so we can talk about you behind your back.
Certainly, sir.
I thought this Code Red shit wasn't going on anymore.
With the marines at GITMO? Who the hell knows what goes on down there.
Well lets find out before the rest of the world does, this thing could get messy. What about this woman?
Jo's been working a desk at internal affairs for what, almost a year now.
And before that?
She disposed of three cases in two Three cases in two years? Who was she handling, the Rosenbergs?
Three cases in two years? Who was she handling, the Rosenbergs?
She's not cut out for litigation.
She's a hall of an investigator, In Internal Affairs, sure. She can crawl up a lawyer's ass with the best of 'em, but when it comes to trial work
In Internal Affairs, sure. She can crawl up a lawyer's ass with the best of 'em, but when it comes to trial work
I know. All passion, no street smarts. Bring her back in. Commander, we're gonna move the defendants up here in the morning.
Commander, we're gonna move the defendants up here in the morning.
Thank you, sir.
And I'll have Division assign them But. not me.
But. not me.
From what I understand from your colleagues, you're much too valuable in your present assignment to be wasted on what I'm sure will boil down to a five minute plea bargain and a week's worth of paper work.
Don't worry about it. I promise you, division'll assign the right man for the job.
Don't worry about it. I promise you, division'll assign the right man for the job.
Alright, let's get two!
Nothing to be sorry about, Sherby. Just look the ball into your glove.
Nothing to be sorry about, Sherby. Just look the ball into your glove.
You gotta trust me, Sherby. You keep your eyes open, your chances of catching the ball increase by a factor of ten.
Let's try it again.
Let's try it again.
Dave. You seem upset and distraught.
Dave. You seem upset and distraught.
We were supposed to meet in your office 15 minutes ago to talk about the McDermott case. You're stalling on this thing. Now we got this done and I mean now, or no kidding, Kaffee, I'll hang your boy from a fuckin' A yardarm? Sherby, does the Navy still hang people from yardarms?
A yardarm? Sherby, does the Navy still hang people from yardarms?
I don't think so, Danny.
Dave, Sherby doesn't think the Navy hangs people from yardarms anymore.  Let's go, let's get two!
I'm gonna charge him with possession and being under the influence while on duty. Plead guilty and I'll recommend 30 days in the brig with loss of rank and pay.
It was oregano, Dave, it was ten dollars worth of oregano.
Yeah, well your client thought it was marijuana.
My client's a moron, that's not against the law.
Ow. That had to hurt.  Way to keep your head in the play, Lester. Walk it off!
I've got people to answer to just like you, I'm gonna charge him.
With what, possession of a condiment?
Dave, I've tried to help you out of this, but if you ask for tall time, I'm gonna file a motion to dismiss.
Dave, I've tried to help you out of this, but if you ask for tall time, I'm gonna file a motion to dismiss.
You won't got it.
I will get it. And if the MTD is denied, I'll file a motion in liminee seeking to obtain evidentiary ruling in advance, and after that I'm gonna file against pre-trial confinement, and you're gonna spend an entire summer going blind on paperwork because a Signalman Second Class bought and smoked a dime bag of B Misdemeanor, 20 days in the brig.
B Misdemeanor, 20 days in the brig.
C Misdemeanor, 15 days restricted I don't know why I'm agreeing to 'Cause you have wisdom beyond your years. Dave, can you play third base?
I don't know why I'm agreeing to 'Cause you have wisdom beyond your years. Dave, can you play third base?
'Cause you have wisdom beyond your years. Dave, can you play third base?
'Morning Captain Whitaker.
'Morning Captain Whitaker.
Sam, how's the baby?
I think she's ready to say her first word any day now.
How can you tell?
She just looks like she has something to say.
Excuse me, sorry I'm late.
I'm sure you don't have a good excuse, so I won't force you to come up with a bad one.
Thank you, Isaac, that's nice of Sit-down, this first one's for you.
Sit-down, this first one's for you.
You're moving up in the world, Danny, you've been requested by Division.
Requested to do what?
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. A marine corporal named Dawson illegally fires a round from his weapon over the fenceline and into Cuban territory.
What's a fenceline?
A big wall separating the good guys from the bad guys.
A big wall separating the good guys from the bad guys.
Teachers pet.
PFC William Santiago threatens to rat on Dawson to the Naval investigative Service. Dawson and another member of his squad, PFC Louden Downey, they go into Santiago's room, tie him up, and stuff a rag down his throat. An hour later, Santiago's dead. Attending physician says the rag was treated with some kind of toxin.
They poisoned the rag?
Not according to them.
What do they say?
Not much. They're being flown up here tomorrow and on Thursday at 0600 you'll catch a transport down to Cuba for the day to find out what you can. Meantime, go across the yard and see Lt. Commander Joanne Galloway. She's the one who had 'em brought up here. She'll fill you in on whatever she has. Any questions?
The flight to Cuba, was that 0600 in the morning, sir?
It seems important to Division that this one be handled by the book, so I'm assigning co-counsel. Any I have a stack of paper on my desk
I have a stack of paper on my desk
I have a stack of paper on my desk
I have a stack of paper on my desk
Work with Kaffee on this.
Doing what? Kaffee'll finish this up in four days.
Do various. administrative. you know. things. Back-up. Whatever.
In other words I have no responsibilities whatsoever.
My kinda case.
My kinda case.
I'm Daniel Kaffee. I was told to meet with  Commander Galloway.
About a briefing.
You're the attorney that Division I'm lead counsel. This is Sam I have no responsibilities here
I'm lead counsel. This is Sam I have no responsibilities here
I have no responsibilities here
Come in, please, have a seat.
Lieutenant, how long have you been in the Navy?
Going on nine months now.
And how long have you been out of law school?
A little over a year.
I see.
Have I done something wrong?
No. It's just that when I petitioned Division to have counsel assigned, I was hoping I'd be taken seriously.
No offense taken, if you were Commander, Lt. Kaffee's generally considered the best litigator in our office. He's successfully plea bargained 44 cases in nine months.
Commander, Lt. Kaffee's generally considered the best litigator in our office. He's successfully plea bargained 44 cases in nine months.
One more, and I got a set of steak Have you ever been in a courtroom?
Have you ever been in a courtroom?
I once had my drivers license Commander, from what I understand, if this thing goes to court, they won't need a lawyer, they'll need a No. They'll need a lawyer.
Commander, from what I understand, if this thing goes to court, they won't need a lawyer, they'll need a No. They'll need a lawyer.
Commander, from what I understand, if this thing goes to court, they won't need a lawyer, they'll need a No. They'll need a lawyer.
No. They'll need a lawyer.
Dawson's family has been contacted. Downey's closest living relative is Ginny Miller, his aunt on his mother's side, she hasn't been Contacted yet.
Would you like me to take care of Sure, if you feel like it.
Sure, if you feel like it.
One of the people you'll be speaking to down there is the barracks C.O., Colonel Nathan Jessep, I assume you've heard of him.
Who hasn't?
He's been in the papers lately. He's expected to be appointed Director of Operations for the National Security
These are letters that Santiago wrote in his 8 months at GITMO
Guantanamo Bay.
I know that one.
He wrote to his recruiter, the fleet commander, HQ, Atlantic, even his senator. He wanted a transfer. Nobody was listening. You with me?
This last letter to the Naval investigative Service
This last letter to the Naval investigative Service
where he offers information about Corporal Dawson's fenceline shooting in exchange for a transfer, was just a last ditch effort.
Right. Is that all?
Lieutenant, this letter makes it look like your client had a motive to kill Santiago.
And Santiago is. who?
The victim.
Write that down.  Am I correct in assuming that these letters don't paint a flattering picture of marine corps life in Guantanamo Bay?
Yes, among other
And am I further right in assuming that a protracted investigation of this incident might cause some embarrassment for the security counsel Colonel Jessep, yes, but
Colonel Jessep, yes, but
Twelve years.
I'm sorry?
Twelve years. I can get it knocked down to Involuntary Manslaughter. Twelve years.
You haven't talked to a witness, you haven't looked at a piece of paper.
Pretty impressive, huh?
You're gonna have to go deeper than Commander, do you have some sort of jurisdiction here that I should know My job is to make sure you do your job. I'm special counsel for Internal Affairs, so my jurisdiction's pretty much in your face. Read the letters. You're not under any obligation, but I'd appreciate a report when you get back from Cuba.
Commander, do you have some sort of jurisdiction here that I should know My job is to make sure you do your job. I'm special counsel for Internal Affairs, so my jurisdiction's pretty much in your face. Read the letters. You're not under any obligation, but I'd appreciate a report when you get back from Cuba.
My job is to make sure you do your job. I'm special counsel for Internal Affairs, so my jurisdiction's pretty much in your face. Read the letters. You're not under any obligation, but I'd appreciate a report when you get back from Cuba.
KAFFEE gets up without waiting for JO to say
You're dismissed.
Sorry, I always forget that.
He's a little preoccupied. The team's playing Bethesda Medical next week.
Tell your friend not to get cute down there. The marines in Guantanimo are fanatical.
About what?
About being marines.
Who the fuck is PFC William T.
Sir, Santiago is a member of Second Platoon, Delta.
Yeah, well, apparently he's not very happy down here at Shangri-La, cause he's written letters to everyone but Santa Claus asking for a transfer. And now he's telling tales about a fenceline shooting.
I'm appalled, sir.
I'm appalled, sir.
You're appalled? This kid broke the Chain of Command and he ratted on a man of his unit, to say nothing of the fact that he's a U.S. Marine and it would appear that he can't run from here to there without collapsing from heat exhaustion. What the fuck's going on over at Windward, Matthew?
Colonel, I think perhaps it would be better to hold this discussion in That won't be necessary, Colonel, I'll handle the situation.
That won't be necessary, Colonel, I'll handle the situation.
The same way you handled the Curtis Barnes incident? You're doing something wrong, Lieutenant this
My methods of leadership are
Don't interrupt me, I'm still your superior officer.
And I'm yours, Matthew.
I want to know what we're gonna do about this.
I think Santiago should be transferred off the base. Right away.
He's that bad, huh?
Not only that, but word of this letter's bound to get out. The kid's gonna get his ass kicked.
Transfer Santiago. Yes I suppose you're right. I suppose that's the thing to do. Wait. Wait. I've got a better idea. Let's transfer the whole squad off the base. Let's on second thought Windward. The whole Windward division, let's transfer 'em off the base. Jon, go on out there and get those boys down off the fence, they're packing their
Got me the President on the phone, we're surrendering our position in Yes sir!
Got me the President on the phone, we're surrendering our position in Yes sir!
Yes sir!
Wait a minute, Tom.
Don't call the President just yet. Maybe we should consider this for a second. Maybe and I'm just spit balling here but maybe we as officers have a responsibility to train Santiago. Maybe we as officers have a responsibility to this country to see that the men and women charged with its security are trained professionals. Yes. I'm certain I once read that somewhere. And now I'm thinking that your suggestion of transferring Santiago, while expeditious, and certainly painless, might not be in a manner of speaking, the American way. Santiago stays where he is. We're gonna train the lad. You're in charge, Jon. Santiago doesn't make 4.1 on his next fitness report, I'm gonna blame you. Then I'm gonna kill you.
Yes sir.
I think that's a mistake, Colonel.
Matthew, I believe I will have that word in private with you now. Jon, that's all. Why don't you and I have lunch at the "O" club, we'll talk about the training of young William.
Yes sir, I'd be delighted to hear any suggestions you have.
KENDRICK is gone.
Matthew, sit, please.
What do you think of Kendrick?
I don't know that
I think he's kind of a weasel, myself. But he's an awfully good officer, and in the end we see eye to eye on the best way to run a marine corps unit. We're in the business of saving lives, Matthew. That's a responsibility we have to take pretty seriously. And I believe that taking a marine who's not yet up to the job and packing him off to another assignment, puts lives in danger.
Matthew, siddown.  We go back a while. We went to the Academy together, we were commissioned together, we did our tours in Vietnam together. But I've been promoted up through the chain with greater speed and success than you have. Now if that's a source of tension or embarrassment for you, well, I don't give a shit. We're in the business of saving lives, Captain Markinson. Don't ever question my orders in front of another officer.
DAWSON doesn't say anything.
Is this Washington, D.C.?
Alright, let's get tough out there!
Excuse me.
You want to suit up? We need all the help we can get.
No, thank you, I can't throw and catch things.
That's okay, neither can they.
I wanted to talk to you about Corporal Dawson and Private Downey.
Say again?
Dawson and Downey.
Those names sound like they should mean something to me, but I'm just Dawson! Downey! Your clients!
Dawson! Downey! Your clients!
The Cuba thing! Yes! Dawson and I've done something wrong again, haven't I?
I was wondering why two guys have been in a jail cell since this morning while their lawyer is outside hitting a ball.
We need the practice.
That wasn't funny.
It was a little funny.
Lieutenant, would you feel very insulted if I recommended to your supervisor that he assign different I don't think you're fit to handle this defense.
I don't think you're fit to handle this defense.
I don't think you're fit to handle this defense.
You don't even know me. Ordinarily it takes someone hours to discover I'm not fit to handle a defense.
Oh come on, that was damn funny. I do know you. Daniel AlliStair Kaffee, born June 8th, 1964 at Boston Mercy Hospital. Your father's Lionel Kaffee, former Navy Judge Advocate and Attorney General, of the United States, died 1985. You went to Harvard Law on a Navy scholarship, probably because that's what your father wanted you to do, and now you're just treading water for the three years you've gotta serve in the JAG Corps, just kinda layin' low til you can get out and get a real job. And if that's the situation, that's fine, I won't tell anyone. But my feeling is that if this case is handled in the same fast-food, slick-ass, Persian Bazaar manner with which you seem to handle everything else, something's gonna get missed. And I wouldn't be doing my job if I allowed Dawson and Downey to spend any more time in prison than absolutely necessary, because their attorney had pre- determined the path of least
I do know you. Daniel AlliStair Kaffee, born June 8th, 1964 at Boston Mercy Hospital. Your father's Lionel Kaffee, former Navy Judge Advocate and Attorney General, of the United States, died 1985. You went to Harvard Law on a Navy scholarship, probably because that's what your father wanted you to do, and now you're just treading water for the three years you've gotta serve in the JAG Corps, just kinda layin' low til you can get out and get a real job. And if that's the situation, that's fine, I won't tell anyone. But my feeling is that if this case is handled in the same fast-food, slick-ass, Persian Bazaar manner with which you seem to handle everything else, something's gonna get missed. And I wouldn't be doing my job if I allowed Dawson and Downey to spend any more time in prison than absolutely necessary, because their attorney had pre- determined the path of least
I'm sexually aroused, Commander.
I don't think your clients murdered What are you basing this on?
What are you basing this on?
There was no intent.
The doctor's report says that Santiago died of asphyxiation brought on by acute lactic acidosis, and that the nature of the acidosis strongly suggests poisoning. Now, I don't know what any of that means, but it sounds pretty bad.
Santiago died at one a.m. At three the doctor was unable to determine the cause of death, but two hours later he said it was poison.
Oh, now I see what you're saying. It had to be Professor Plum in the library with the candlestick.
I'm gonna speak to your supervisor.
Okay. You go straight up Pennsylvania Avenue. It's a big white house with pillars in front.
Thank you.
I don't think you'll have much luck, though. I was assigned by Division, remember? Somebody over there thinks I'm a good lawyer. So while I appreciate your interest and admire your enthusiasm, I think I can pretty much handle things myself.
Do you know what a code red is?
What a pity.
Sir, Lance Corporal Harold W. Dawson, sir. Rifle Security Company Windward, Second Platoon, Delta.
Someone hasn't been working and playing well with others, Harold.
Sir, yes sir!
Sir, PFC Louden Downey.
I'm Daniel Kaffee, this is Sam Weinerg, you can sitdown.
Is this your signature?
Yes sir.
You don't have to call me sir. Is this your signature?
Sir, yes sir.
And you certainly don't have to do it twice in one sentence. Harold, what's a Code Red?
Sir, a Code Red is a disciplinary What does that mean, exactly?
What does that mean, exactly?
Sir, a marine falls out of line, it's up to the men in his unit to get him back on track.
What's a garden variety Code Red?
Harold, you say sir and I turn around and look for my father. Danny, Daniel, Kaffee. Garden variety; typical. What's a basic Code Red?
Harold, you say sir and I turn around and look for my father. Danny, Daniel, Kaffee. Garden variety; typical. What's a basic Code Red?
Sir, a marine has refused to bathe on a regular basis. The men in his squad would give him a G.I. shower.
What's that?
Scrub brushes, brillo pads, steel Was the attack on Santiago a Code Yes sir.
Was the attack on Santiago a Code Yes sir.
Was the attack on Santiago a Code Yes sir.
Yes sir.
Do you ever talk?
Sir, Private Downey will answer any direct questions you ask him.
Swell. Private Downey, the rag you stuffed in Santiago's mouth, was there poison on it?
No sir.
Silver polish, turpentine, anti- No sir. We were gonna shave his head, When all of a sudden.?
No sir. We were gonna shave his head, When all of a sudden.?
When all of a sudden.?
We saw blood drippinq out of his mouth. Then we pulled the tape off, and there was blood all down his face, sir. That's when Corporal Dawson called the ambulance.
Did anyone see you call the ambulance?
No sir.
Were you there when the ambulance got there?
Yes sir, that's when we were taken under arrest.
On the night of August 2nd, did you fire a shot across the fenceline into Cuba?
Yes sir.
My mirror engaged, sir.
My mirror engaged, sir.
His mirror engaged?
For each American sentry post there's a Cuban counterpart. They're called mirrors. The corporal's claiming that his mirror was about to fire at Santiago's letter to the NIS said you fired illegally. He's saying that the guy, the mirror, he never made a move.
Santiago's letter to the NIS said you fired illegally. He's saying that the guy, the mirror, he never made a move.
Oh, Harold?
You see what I'm getting at? If Santiago didn't have anything on you, then why did you give him a Code Red?
Because he broke the chain of command, He what?
He what?
He went outside his unit, sir. If he had a problem, he should've spoken to me, sir. Then his Sergeant, then Company Commander, then
Yeah, yeah, alright. Harold, did you assault Santiago with the intent of killing him?
No sir.
What was your intent?
To train him, sir.
Train him to do what?
Train him to think of his unit before himself. To respect the code.
What's the code?
Unit Corps God Country.
I beg your pardon?
Unit Corps God Country, sir.
The Goverrment of the United States wants to charge you two with murder. You want me to go to the prosecutor with unit, corps, god, country?
That's our code, sir.
We'll be back. You guys need anything? Books paper, cigarettes, a ham Sir. No thank you. Sir.
Sir. No thank you. Sir.
Harold, I think there's a concept you better start warming up to.
I'm the only friend you've got.
I'm the only friend you've got.
Dan Kaffee.
Sailin' Jack Ross.
Welcome to the big time.
You think so?
I hope for Dawson and Downey's sake you practice law better than you play softball.
Unfortunately for Dawson and Downey, I don't do anything better than I play softball. What are we lookin' They plead guilty to manslaughter, I'll drop the conspiracy and the conduct unbecoming. 20 years, they'll be home in half that time.
They plead guilty to manslaughter, I'll drop the conspiracy and the conduct unbecoming. 20 years, they'll be home in half that time.
I want twelve.
Can't do it.
They called the ambulance, Jack.
I don't care if they called the Avon Lady, they killed a marine.
The rag was tested for poison. The autopsy, lab report, even the initial E.R. and C.O.D. reports. They all say the same thingThe Chief of Internal Medicine at the Guantanamo Bay Naval hospital says he's sure.
What do you know about Code Reds?
Oh man.
Are we off the record?
You tell me.
I'm gonna give you the twelve years, but before you go getting yourself into trouble tomorrow, you should know thisI'll talk to you when I get back.
Hey, we got a little four-on-four going tomorrow night. When does your plane get in?
Hi there.
Any luck getting me replaced?
Is there anyone in this command that you don't either drink or play softball with?
Listen, I came to make peace. We started off on the wrong foot. What do you say? Friends?
Listen, I came to make peace. We started off on the wrong foot. What do you say? Friends?
Look, I don't
By the way, I brought Downey some comic books he was asking for. The kid, Kaffee, I swear, he doesn't know where he is, he doesn't even know why he's been arrested.
You can call me Joanne.
You can call me Joanne.
or Jo.
or Jo.
Jo, if you ever speak to a client of mine again without my permission, I'll have you disbarred. Friends?
Jo, if you ever speak to a client of mine again without my permission, I'll have you disbarred. Friends?
Jo, if you ever speak to a client of mine again without my permission, I'll have you disbarred. Friends?
I had authorization.
From where?
Downey's closest living relative, Ginny Miller, his aunt on his mother's You got authorization from Aunt Ginny?
You got authorization from Aunt Ginny?
I gave her a call like you asked. Very nice woman, we talked for about an hour.
You got authorization from Aunt Ginny.
Perfectly within my province.
Does Aunt Ginny have a barn? We can hold the trial there. I can sew the costumes, and maybe his Uncle Goober can be the judge.
I'm going to Cuba with you tomorrow.
And the hits just keep on comin'.
How's it goin', Luther?
Another day, another dollar, captain.
You gotta play 'em as they lay, What comes around, goes around, you know what I'm sayin'.
What comes around, goes around, you know what I'm sayin'.
If you can't beat 'em, join 'em.
Hey, if you've got your health, you got everything.
Love makes the world go round. I'll see you tomorrow, Luther.
When Nancy gets back, you're my witness. The baby spoke. My daughter said a word.
Your daughter made a sound, Sam, I'm not sure it was a word.
Oh come on, it was a word.
You heard her. The girl sat here, pointed, and said "Pa". She did. She said "Pa".
You heard her. The girl sat here, pointed, and said "Pa". She did. She said "Pa".
She was pointing at a doorknob.
That's right. Pointing, as if to say, "Pa, look, a doorknob".
Jack Ross came to see me today. He offered me twelve years.
That's what you wanted.
I know, and I'll. I guess, I mean I'll take it.
It took albout 45 seconds. He barely put up a fight.
It took albout 45 seconds. He barely put up a fight.
Danny, take the twelve years, it's a
You don't believe their story, do you? You think they ought to go to jail for the rest of their lives.
I believe every word they said. And I think they ought to go to jail for the rest of their lives.
I'll see you tomorrow.
Remember to wear your whites, it's hot down there.
I don't like the whites.
Nobody likes the whites, but we're going to Cuba in August. You got Dramamine keeps you cool?
Dramamine keeps you cool?
Dramamine keeps you from throwing up, you get sick when you fly.
I get sick when I fly because I'm afraid of crashing into a large mountain, I don't think Dramamine'll I've got some oregano, I hear that works pretty good.
I've got some oregano, I hear that works pretty good.
Yeah, right.
You know, Ross said the strangest thing to me right before I left. He said the platoon commander Lieutenant Jonathan Kendrick had a meeting with the men and specifically told them not to touch Santiago.
I never mentioned Kendrick. I don't even know who he is. What the hell. I'll see you tomorrow.
I never mentioned Kendrick. I don't even know who he is. What the hell. I'll see you tomorrow.
Lieutenants Kaffee and Weinberg?
Commander Galloway.
Commander Galloway.
I'm Corporal Howard, ma'am, I'm to escort you to the Windward side of the base.
Thank you.
I've got some camouflage jackets in the back of the jeep, sirs, I'll have to ask you both to put them on.
Camouflage jackets?
Regulations, sir. We'll be riding pretty close to the fenceline. The Cubans see an officer wearing white, they think it's someone they might wanna take a shot at.
Good call, Sam.
We'll just hop on the ferry and be over there in no time.
Whoa! Hold it! We gotta take a boat?!
Yes sir, to get to the other side of the bay.
Nobody said anything about a boat.
Is there a problem, sir?
No. No problem. I'm just not that crazy about boats, that's all.
Jesus Christ, Kaffee, you're in the Navy for cryin' out loud!
Nobody likes her very much.
Yes sir.
Nathan Jessep, come on in and siddown.
Thank you. I'm Daniel Kaffee, I'm the attorney for Dawson and Downey. This is Joanne Galloway, she's observing and evaluating
Pleased to meet you, Commander.
Pleased to meet you, Commander.
Sam Weinberg. He has no responsibility here whatsoever.
I've asked Captain Markinson and Lt. Kendrick to join us.
Lt. Kaffee, I had the pleasure of seeing your father once. I was a teenager and he spoke at my high
Lionel Kaffee?
Yes sir.
Well what do you know. Son, this man's dad once made a lot of enemies down in your neck of the woods. Jefferson vs. Madison County School District. The folks down there said a little black girl couldn't go to an all white school, Lionel Kaffee said we'll just see about that. How the hell is your dad?
He passed away seven years ago, Well. don't I feel like the fuckin, Not at all, sir.
Well. don't I feel like the fuckin, Not at all, sir.
Not at all, sir.
Well, what can we do for you, Danny.
Not much at all, sir, I'm afraid. This is really a formality more than anything else. The JAG Corps insists that I interview all the relevant The JAG Corps can be demanding that
The JAG Corps can be demanding that
Jonanthan'll take you out and show you what you wanna see, then we can all hook up for lunch, how does that Fine, sir.
Fine, sir.
I understand you had a meeting with your men that afternoon.
What'd you guys talk about?
What'd you guys talk about?
I told the men that there was an informer among us. And that despite any desire they might have to seek retribution, Private Santiago was not to be harmed in any way.
What time was that meeting?
KAFFEE turns around and looks at SAM.
Four o'clock.
Sam, somebody should see about getting this stuff to his parents. We don't need it anymore.
Actually, the uniforms belong to the marine corps.
Lt. Kendrick can I call you Jon?
No, you may not.
Have I done something to offend you?
No, I like all you Navy boys. Every time we've gotta go someplace and fight, you fellas always give us a Lt. Kendrick, do you think Santiago was murdered?
Lt. Kendrick, do you think Santiago was murdered?
Commander, I believe in God, and in his son Jesus Christ, and because I do, I can say thisHow do you feel about that theory?
Sounds good. Let's move on.
You planning on doing any investigating or are you just gonna take the guided tour?
I'm pacing myself.
.And they spent the next three hours running around, looking for Americans to surrender to.
( continuing; to the
That was delicious, men, thank you.
Our pleasure, sir.
Colonel just need to ask you a couple of questions about August 6th.
On the morning of the sixth, you were contacted by an NIS angent who said that Santiago had tipped him off to an illegal fenceline shooting.
On the morning of the sixth, you were contacted by an NIS angent who said that Santiago had tipped him off to an illegal fenceline shooting.
Santiago was gonna reveal the person's name in exchange for a transfer. An I getting this right?
Santiago was gonna reveal the person's name in exchange for a transfer. An I getting this right?
If you feel there are any details that I'm missing, you should free to speak up.
If you feel there are any details that I'm missing, you should free to speak up.
Thank you.
Now it was at this point that you called Captain Markinson and Lt. Kendrick into your office?
And what happened then?
And what happened then?
We agreed that for his own safety, Santiago should be transferred off the base.
Santiago was set to be transferred?
On the first available flight to the states. Six the next morning. Three hours too late as it turned out.
There's silence for a moment. KAFFEE takes a sip of his coffee. Then drains the cup and puts it down.
Alright, that's all I have. Thanks very much for your time.
The corporal's got the jeep outside, he'll take you back to the airstrip.
Thank you.
Wait a minute, I've got some No you don't.
No you don't.
Yes I do.
No you don't.
Colonel, on the morning that Santiago died, did you meet with Doctor Stone between three and five?
Of course I met with the doctor. One of my men was dead.
Of course I met with the doctor. One of my men was dead.
See? The man was dead. Let's go.
I was wondering if you've ever heard the term Code Red.
I've heard the term, yes.
I've heard the term, yes.
Colonel, this past February, you received a cautionary memo from the Naval Investigative Service, warning that the practice of enlisted men disciplining their own wasn't to be condoned by officers.
I submit to you that whoever wrote that memo has never served on the working end of a Soviet-made Cuban Ml-Al6 Assault Rifle. However, the directive having come from the NIS, I gave it its due attention. What's your point, Jo?
She has no point. She often has no point. It's part of her charm. We're outta here. Thank you.
My point is that I think code reds still go on down here. Do Code Reds still happen on this base, colonel?
Jo, the colonel doesn't need to answer Yes he does.
Yes he does.
No, he really doesn't.
Yeah, he really does. Colonel?
You know it just hit me. She outranks you, Danny.
Yes sir.
I want to tell you something Danny and listen up 'cause I mean thisColonel, the practice of code Reds is still condoned by officers on this base, isn't it?
You see my problem is, of course, that I'm a Colonel. I'll just have to keep taking cold showers 'til they elect some gal President.
I need an answer to my question, Take caution in your tone, Commander. I'm a fair guy, but this fuckin' heat's making me absolutely crazy. You want to know about code reds? On the record I tell you that I discourage the practice in accordance with the NIS directive. Off the record I tell you that it's an invaluable part of close infantry training, and if it happens to go on without my knowledge, so be it. I run my base how I run my base. You want to investigate me, roll the dice and take your chances. I eat breakfast 80 yards away from 4000 Cubans who are trained to kill me. So don't for one second think you're gonna come down here, flash a badge, and make me nervous.
Take caution in your tone, Commander. I'm a fair guy, but this fuckin' heat's making me absolutely crazy. You want to know about code reds? On the record I tell you that I discourage the practice in accordance with the NIS directive. Off the record I tell you that it's an invaluable part of close infantry training, and if it happens to go on without my knowledge, so be it. I run my base how I run my base. You want to investigate me, roll the dice and take your chances. I eat breakfast 80 yards away from 4000 Cubans who are trained to kill me. So don't for one second think you're gonna come down here, flash a badge, and make me nervous.
Let's go. Colonel, I'll just need a copy of Santiago's transfer order.
What's that?
Santiago's transfer order. You guys have paper work on that kind of thing, I just need it for the file.
For the file.
Of course you can have a copy of the transfer order. For the file. I'm here to help anyway I can.
Of course you can have a copy of the transfer order. For the file. I'm here to help anyway I can.
Thank you.
You believe that, don't you? Danny? That I'm here to help anyway I can?
Of course.
The corporal'll run you by Ordinance on your way out to the airstrip. You can have all the transfer orders you Let's go.
Let's go.
But you have to ask me nicely.
I beg your pardon?
You have to ask me nicely. You see, Danny, I can deal with the bullets and the bombs and the blood. I can deal with the heat and the stress and the fear. I don't want money and I don't want medals. What I want is for you to stand there in that faggoty white uniform, and with your Harvard mouth, extend me some fuckin' courtesy. You gotta ask me nicely.
Colonel Jessep. if it's not too much trouble, I'd like a copy of the transfer order. Sir.
No problem.
I hate casualties, Matthew. There are casualties even in victory. A marine smothers a grenade and saves his platoon, that marine's a hero. The foundation of the unit, the fabric of this base, the spirit of the Corps, they are things worth fighting for.
Dawson and Downey, they don't know it, but they're smothering a grenade.
Who is it?
I've really missed you, Jo. I was just saying to myself, "It's been almost three hours since I last saw
Markinson resigned his commission.
This afternoon. Sometime after we I'll talk to him in the morning.
This afternoon. Sometime after we I'll talk to him in the morning.
I'll talk to him in the morning.
I already tried, I can't find him.
You tried? Joanne, you're coming dangerously close to the textbook definition of interfering with a government investigation.
I'm Louden Downey's attorney.
Aunt Ginny. She said she feels like she's known me for years. I suggested that she might feel more comfortable if I were directly involved with the case. She had Louden sign the papers about an hour ago. I suppose it's way too much to hope that you're just making this up to bother me.
I suppose it's way too much to hope that you're just making this up to bother me.
Don't worry, I'm not gonna make a motion for separation, you're still lead counsel.
I think Kendrick ordered the Code So do you.
I think Kendrick ordered the Code So do you.
Officer on deck, ten hut.
Did Kendrick order the code red?
Don't say sir like I just asked you if you cleaned the latrine. You heard what I said. Did Lt. Kendrick order you guys to give Santiago a code Yes sir.
Don't say sir like I just asked you if you cleaned the latrine. You heard what I said. Did Lt. Kendrick order you guys to give Santiago a code Yes sir.
Yes sir.
Did he?
Yes sir.
You mind telling me why the hell you never mentioned this before?
You didn't ask us, sir.
Cutie-pie shit's not gonna win you a place in my heart, corporal, I get paid no matter how much time you spend in jail.
Yes sir. I know you do, sir.
Fuck you, Harold.
Alright. Let's sort this out. There was a platoon meeting on August 6th at four in the afternoon. And Lt. Kendrick, he gave strict instructions that nothing was to happen to Santiago. Now is that true? I want you to speak freely.
Ma'am, that's correct. But then he dismissed the platoon and we all went to our rooms.
And what happened then?
Lt. Kendrick came to our room, ma'am.
About five minutes after the meeting broke, sir. About 16About five minutes after the meeting broke, sir. About 16And what happened then?
Lt. Kendrick ordered us to give Santiago a Code Red.
But ROSS is into the game.
Hang on.
Hang on.
They were given an order.
How long have you known about the I didn't Who is this?
I didn't Who is this?
This is Jo Galloway she's Downey's lawyer. She's very pleased to meet What exactly are you accusing me of, I'm accusing you of
What exactly are you accusing me of, I'm accusing you of
I'm accusing you of
Jack didn't know about the order. Because if he did and he hadn't told us, Jack knows he'd be violating about 14 articles of the code of ethics. As it is, he's got enough to worry about. God forbid our clients decide to plead not guilty and testify for the record that they were given an order.
Kendrick specifically told the men not to touch Santiago.
That's right. And then he went into Dawson and Downey's room and specifically told them to give him a code red.
That's not what Kendrick said.
Kendrick's lying.
You have proof?
I have the defendants.
And I have 23 marines who aren't accused of murder and a lieutenant with four letters of commendation.
Why did Markinson resign his We'll never know.
We'll never know.
You don't think I can subpoena You can try, but you won't find him. You know what Markinson did for the first 17 of his 21 years in the corps? Counter Intelligence. Markinson's gone. There is no Markinson.
You can try, but you won't find him. You know what Markinson did for the first 17 of his 21 years in the corps? Counter Intelligence. Markinson's gone. There is no Markinson.
Jessep's star is on the rise. Division'll give me a lot of room to spare Jessep and the corps any How much room?
How much room?
I'll knock it all down to assault. Two years. They're home in six months.
No deal, we're going to a jury.
No you're not.
No you're not.
Why not?
'Cause you'll lose, and Danny knows it. And he knows that if we go to court, I'll have to go all the way, they'll be charged with the whole truckload. Murder, Conspiracy, Conduct Unbecoming, and even though he's got me by the balls out here, Dan knows that in a courtroom, he loses this case. Danny's an awfully talented lawyer, and he's not about to send his clients go to jail for life when he knows they could be home in six
That's the end of this negotiation. From this moment, we're on the record. I'll see tomorrow morning at the
Here's the story"Wow, Kaffee, you're the greatest lawyer in the world. How can we ever thank you?" Fellas, you hear what I just said, you're going home in six I'm afraid we can't do that, sir.
I'm afraid we can't do that, sir.
Do what?
Make a deal, sir.
What are you talking about?
We did nothing wrong, sir. We did our job. If that has consequences, then I accept them. But'I won't say I'm guilty, sir.
Did you Did she put you up to this?
We have a code, sir.
We have a code, sir.
Well zippity-doo-dah. You and your code plead not guilty and you'll be in jail for the rest of your life. Do what I'm telling you and you'll be home in six months.
Do it, Harold. Six months. It's nothing. It's a hockey season.
Permission to
What do we do then, sir?
What do we do then, sir?
After six months. We'd be dishonorably discharged, right sir?
After six months. We'd be dishonorably discharged, right sir?
What do we do then, sir? We joined the corps 'cause we wanted to live our lives by a certain code. And we found it in the corps. And now you're asking us to sign a piece of paper that says we have no honor. You're asking us to say we're not marines. If a judge and jury decide that what we did was wrong, I'll accept whatever punishment they give. But I believe I was riqht, sir. I believe I did my job. And I won't dishonor myself, my unit, or the Corps, so that I can qo home in six months.
What do we do then, sir? We joined the corps 'cause we wanted to live our lives by a certain code. And we found it in the corps. And now you're asking us to sign a piece of paper that says we have no honor. You're asking us to say we're not marines. If a judge and jury decide that what we did was wrong, I'll accept whatever punishment they give. But I believe I was riqht, sir. I believe I did my job. And I won't dishonor myself, my unit, or the Corps, so that I can qo home in six months.
Commander, I want to talk to corporal Dawson alone for a minute.
Let's go in another room. Louden, everything's gonna be alright.
We're gonna go into a holding room.
You don't like me that much, do you? Forget it, don't answer that, it doesn't matter.
You know, Downey worships you. He's gonna do whatever you do. Are you really gonna let this happen to him because of a code? Harold?
Do you think we were right?
It doesn't matter what I
Do you think we were right?
I think you'd lose.
You're such a coward, I can't believe they let you wear a uniform.
I'm not gonna feel responsible for this, Harold. I did everything I could. You're going to Levenworth for the better part of your life, and you know what? I don't give a

KAFFEE and DAWSON are staring each other down. The M.P. shows up and unlocks the cell door. KAFFEE steps out to leave.
What happened to saluting an officer when he leaves the room?
Dawson's gonna go to jail just to spite me. Fine. If he wants to jump off a cliff, that's his business. I'm not gonna hold his hand on the way down. I want to get him a new lawyer. How do I do it?
You just make a motion tomorrow morning at the arraignment. The judge'll ask you if you want to enter a plea. You tell him you want new counsel assigned.
Then that's that.
Yeah. One thing, though. When you ask the judge for new counsel, Danny, be sure and ask nicely.
What do you want from me?
I want you to let 'em be judged! I want you to stand up and make an An argument that didn't work for Calley at My Lai, an argument that didn't work for the Nazis at For Christ sake, Sam, do you really think that's the same as two teenage marines executing a routine order that they never believed would result in harm? These guys aren't the Nazis.
An argument that didn't work for Calley at My Lai, an argument that didn't work for the Nazis at For Christ sake, Sam, do you really think that's the same as two teenage marines executing a routine order that they never believed would result in harm? These guys aren't the Nazis.
For Christ sake, Sam, do you really think that's the same as two teenage marines executing a routine order that they never believed would result in harm? These guys aren't the Nazis.
Don't look now, Danny, but you're making an argument.
Tomorrow morning I'll get them a new Why are you so afraid to be a lawyer? Were daddy's expectations really that high?
Why are you so afraid to be a lawyer? Were daddy's expectations really that high?
Please, spare me the psycho-babble father bullshit. Dawson and Downey'll have their day in court, but they'll have it with another lawyer.
Another lawyer won't be good enough. They need you. You know how to win. You know they have a case. And you know how to win. You walk away from this now, and you have sealed their Their fate was sealed the moment Santiago died.
Their fate was sealed the moment Santiago died.
Do you believe they have a defense?
You and Dawson both live in the same dreamland. It doesn't matter what I believe, it only matters what I can prove. So please don't tell me what I know and don't know. I know the
You know nothing about the law. You're a used car salesman, Daniel. You're an ambulance chaser with a rank. You're nothing. Live with that.
.So I told duncan if we leverage the acquisition of Biotech, the interrogatories would be there on demand. All I have to do is not pick up the phone and it'll run Flaherty ten thousand a day in court costs.
Where are we?
Does defense wish to enter a plea?
They're not guilty.
Enter a plea of not guilty for the defendants. We'll adjourn until ten- hundred, three weeks from today, at which time this Court will reconvene as a General Court-Martial.
Why does a junior grade with six months experience and a track record for plea bargaining get assigned a murder case? Would it be so that it never sees the inside of a courtroom? We'll work out of my apartment. Every night, seven o'clock. Jo, before you come over tonight, pick up a carton of legal pads, a half-dozen boxes of red pens, a half-dozen boxes of black pens. Sam get a couple of desk lamps. I need you to start on a preliminary medical profile and Jo, we need all the fitness reports on Dawson, Downey and Santiago. The only thing I have to eat is Yoo-Hoo and SugarSnacks, so if you want anything else, bring it with you.
We'll work out of my apartment. Every night, seven o'clock. Jo, before you come over tonight, pick up a carton of legal pads, a half-dozen boxes of red pens, a half-dozen boxes of black pens. Sam get a couple of desk lamps. I need you to start on a preliminary medical profile and Jo, we need all the fitness reports on Dawson, Downey and Santiago. The only thing I have to eat is Yoo-Hoo and SugarSnacks, so if you want anything else, bring it with you.
KAFFEE's at the door, stops, turns around, and takes it all in for a moment.
So this is what a courtroom looks
Were you able to speak to your friend at NIS?
She said if Markinson doesn't want to be found, we're not gonna find him. She said I could be Markinson and you wouldn't know it.
Are you Markinson?
Well, I'm not Markinson, that's two
Well, I'm not Markinson, that's two
I was wondering, now that Joanne's working on this. I was wondering if you still need me.
I was wondering, now that Joanne's working on this. I was wondering if you still need me.
They were following an order, Sam.
An illegal order.
You think Dawson and Downey know it was an illegal order?
It doesn't matter if they know, any decent human being would've refused They're not permitted to question Then what's the secret? What are the magic words? I give orders every day, and nobody follows them.
They're not permitted to question Then what's the secret? What are the magic words? I give orders every day, and nobody follows them.
Then what's the secret? What are the magic words? I give orders every day, and nobody follows them.
We have softball games and marching bands. They work at a place where you have to wear camouflage or you might get shot.
I need you. You're better at research than I am and you know how to prepare a witness.
I've got medical reports and Chinese food. I say we eat first.
Did you get any dumplings?
This is our defense. IntentWhat about motive?
We're a little weak on motive. They had one.
Just because a person has a motive doesn't mean
Relax. We'll deal with the fenceline shooting when it comes up. For now we start here I don't know what made Santiago die, I don't want to know. I just want to be able to show it could've been something other than poison. Jo, talk to doctors. Find out everything there is to know about lactic acidosis. Let's start prepping for As long as we're on the subject of the doctor
As long as we're on the subject of the doctor
Here we go.
Listen to me, three o'clock he doesn't know what killed Santiago, then he meets with Jessep, and at five o'clock he says it was poison? The doctor's covering up the truth.
Oh, that's a relief. I was afraid I wouldn't be able to use the "Liar, Liar, Pants on Fire" defense. We can't prove coercion!! Alright, fitness reports and biographical Cartons 3 and 4. No Cliff-Notes on these things?
Cartons 3 and 4. No Cliff-Notes on these things?
No Cliff-Notes on these things?
Captain Hill, this is Lt. Commander Galloway, I'm an internal affairs officer with the JAG Corps in Washington, D.C. I'm trying to track down a Captain Matthew Andrew Markinson, USMC.
Doctor, other than the rope marks, was there any other sign of external No scrapes?
No scrapes?
No scrapes?
No cuts?
No cuts?
He resigned his commission a week ago Thursday.
Bruises? Broken bones?
No, please don't put me on hold
No, please don't put me on hold
Doctor, was there any sign of You mean other than the dead body?
You mean other than the dead body?
Fuck!! I walk into that every goddam Don't ask the last question.
Don't ask the last question.
Lt. Kendrick, the type of disciplinary action, or "training'' as you say
Please the Court, I maintain that nothing could be more relevant than what the defendants learned by the example of, among others, the witness.
Please the Court, I maintain that nothing could be more relevant than what the defendants learned by the example of, among others, the witness.
CUT TOAnd what happened after Kendrick came into your room?
He ordered me and Corporal Dawson to give Willy a Code Red.
His answers still have to come faster, Jo. The Iowa farmboy thing'll play for a while, but in the end it looks like he's searching for the truth.
( to Dawson He's right, and from now on, "Willy" is Private Santiago. You start calling him Willy and all of a sudden he's a person who's got a mother who's gonna miss him.
Poker faces. Don't flinch in front of the jury. Something doesn't go our way, don't hang your head, don't shift in your seat, don't scribble furiously. Whatever happens, you have to look like it's exactly what you knew was gonna happen. When you pass me documents
And don't wear that perfume in Court, it wrecks my concentration.
I was talking to Sam.
I was talking to Sam.
What time is it?
Time to go home. Try to get some sleep tonight.
I'll give you a ride.
You're a good man, Charlie Brown.
See you in court.
I know what you're gonna say. You don't have to. We've had our differences. I've said some things I didn't mean, you've said some things you didn't means but you're happy that I stuck with the case. And if you've gained a certain respect for me over the last three weeks that you didn't have before, well, of course I'm happy about that, but we don't have to make a whole big deal out of it. You like me. I won't make you say it.
I know what you're gonna say. You don't have to. We've had our differences. I've said some things I didn't mean, you've said some things you didn't means but you're happy that I stuck with the case. And if you've gained a certain respect for me over the last three weeks that you didn't have before, well, of course I'm happy about that, but we don't have to make a whole big deal out of it. You like me. I won't make you say it.
I was just gonna tell you to wear matching socks tomorrow.
Okay. Good tip.
We're ready.
Bet your ass.
We're gonna get creamed.
You're gonna save our son, aren't I'll do my best.
I'll do my best.
Danny, I want you to meet Ginny Miller, Louden's aunt.
You're Aunt Ginny?
I'm sorry, I was expecting someone So was I.
I'm sorry, I was expecting someone So was I.
So was I.
Last chance. I'll flip you for it.
Too late.
No objection, your honor.
No objection.
Is the Government prepared to make an opening statement?
Yes sir.
The facts of the case are thisLt. Kaffee?
There was no poison on the rag and there was no intent to kill and any attempt to prove otherwise is futile because it just ain't true. When Dawson and Downey went into Santiago's room that night, it wasn't because of vengeance or hatred, it wasn't to kill or harm, and it wasn't because they were looking for kicks on a Friday night. It's because it was what they were ordered to do. Let me say that againIs the Government ready to call its first witness?
Please the Court, the Government calls Mr. R.C McGuire.
How you doin'?
Mr. McGuire, would you state your full name and occupation for the record, please?
Mr. McGuire, would you state your full name and occupation for the record, please?
Robert C. McGuire, Special Agent, Naval Investigative Service.
Mr. McGuire, did your office receive a letter from PFC William Santiago on 3 August of this year?
We did.
What did the letter say?
That a member of Private Santiago's unit had illegally fired his weapon over the fenceline.
Was that marine identified in the No sir. I notified the barracks C.O., Colonel Jessep, that I would be coming down to investigate.
No sir. I notified the barracks C.O., Colonel Jessep, that I would be coming down to investigate.
And what did you find?
For the shift reported, only one sentry returned his weapon to the switch with a round of ammunition And who was that?
And who was that?
Lance Corporal Harold Dawson.
Your witness.
Mr. McGuire, have you questioned Corporal Dawson about the fenceline Yes. He claims to have been engaged in some manner by the enemy.
Yes. He claims to have been engaged in some manner by the enemy.
But you don't believe him.
It's not my place
Corporal Dawson's been charged with a number of crimes, why wasn't he charged with firing at the enemy without cause?
There wasn't enough evidence to support such a charge.
Thank you.
Mr. McGuire, I don't understand what you mean when you say there wasn't enough evidence to support such a charge. You had Willy Santiago's Santiago was the only witness, but I never had a chance to interview him. So I don't know what he saw.
Santiago was the only witness, but I never had a chance to interview him. So I don't know what he saw.
And now we won't ever know, will we, Mr. McGuire?
No more questions.
No more questions.
Corporal Carl Edward Hammaker, Marine Barracks, Rifle Security Company Windward, Second Platoon Charlie.
Corporal, were you present at a meeting that Lt. Kendrick held on the afternoon of August 6th with the members of second platoon.
Yes sir.
Would you tell the Court the substance of that meeting?
Lt. Kendrick told us that we had an informer in our group. That Private Santiago had gone outside the chain of command and reported to the NIS on a member of our platoon.
Did that make you mad? You can tell the truth, corporal, it's alright. Did it make you mad?
Yes sir.
How mad?
Private Santiago betrayed a code that we believe in very deeply, sir.
Were the other members of the squad Were Dawson and Downey?
Were Dawson and Downey?
Were Dawson and Downey?
Please the Court, is the judge advocate honestly asking this witness to testify as to how the defendant felt on August 6th?
Corporal, did Lt. Kendrick leave a standing order at that meeting?
Corporal, did Lt. Kendrick leave a standing order at that meeting?
Yes sir.
What was it?
Well it was clear that he didn't want us to take matters into our own hands, sir.
What was the order?
Sir, he said that Santiago wasn't to be touched.
Your witness.
Corporal Hammaker, were you in Dawson and Downey's barracks room ten minutes after this meeting?
No sir.
Thanks, I have no more questions.
The Government calls Corporal Raymond Please the Court, I understand Lt. Ross is planning on calling all the other members of Rifle Security Company Windward to testify.
Please the Court, I understand Lt. Ross is planning on calling all the other members of Rifle Security Company Windward to testify.
In light of the defense that Lt. Kaffee is planning to mount, the explicit instructions of the platoon leader seems particularly relevant The defense is willing to concede that all 23 witnesses will testify substantially as Corporal Hammaker did, if the Government is willing to concede that none of them were in Dawson and Downey's room at 16The defense is willing to concede that all 23 witnesses will testify substantially as Corporal Hammaker did, if the Government is willing to concede that none of them were in Dawson and Downey's room at 16The Government'll agree to the stipulation, sir.
The Government'll agree to the stipulation, sir.
Then we'll adjourn for the day. You can call your next witness in the
.And he was pronounced dead at Dr. Stone, what's lactic acidosis?
Dr. Stone, what's lactic acidosis?
If the muscles and other cells of the body burn sugar instead of oxygen, lactic acid is produced. That lactic acid is what caused Santiago's lungs to bleed.
How long does it take for the muscles and other cells to begin burning oxygen instead of sugar?
Twenty to thirty minutes.
And what caused Santiago's muscles and other cells to start burning An ingested poison of some kind.
An ingested poison of some kind.
Your Honor, we object at this point. The witness is speculating.
Commander Stone is an expert medical witness, in this courtroom his opinion isn't considered speculation.
Commander Stone is an internist, not a criminologist, and the medical facts here are ultimately A point which I'm confident you'll illustrate to the jury under cross- examination, so I'm sure you won't mind if his opinion is admitted now.
A point which I'm confident you'll illustrate to the jury under cross- examination, so I'm sure you won't mind if his opinion is admitted now.
Not at all, sir. Objection withdrawn.
Doctor Stone, did Willy Santiago die of poisoning?
Are you aware that the lab report and the coroners report showed no traces of poison?
Are you aware that the lab report and the coroners report showed no traces of poison?
Yes I am.
Then how do you justify
There are literally dozens of toxins which are virtually undetectable, both in the human body and on a fabric. The nature of the acidosis is the compelling factor in this Thank you, sir.
Thank you, sir.
Commander, you testified that it takes lactic acidosis 20 to 30 minutes before it becomes lethal.
Let me ask you, is it possible for a person to have an affliction, some sort of condition, which might, in the case of this person, actually speed up the process of acidosis
Let me ask you, is it possible for a person to have an affliction, some sort of condition, which might, in the case of this person, actually speed up the process of acidosis
Commander, is it possible?
What might some of those conditions If a person had a coronary disorder. or a cerebral disorder, the process would be more rapid.
What might some of those conditions If a person had a coronary disorder. or a cerebral disorder, the process would be more rapid.
If a person had a coronary disorder. or a cerebral disorder, the process would be more rapid.
Commander, if I had a coronary condition, and a perfectly clean rag was placed in my mouth, and the rag was accidentally pushed too far down, is it possible that my cells would continue burning sugar after the rag was taken out?
It would have to be a very serious Is it possible to have a serious coronary condition, where the initial warning signals were so mild as to escape a physician during a routine medical exam?
Is it possible to have a serious coronary condition, where the initial warning signals were so mild as to escape a physician during a routine medical exam?
Possibly. There would still be symptoms though.
What kind of symptoms?
There are hundreds of symptoms of a
Chest pains?
Shortness of breath?
Shortness of breath?
Of course.
Of course.
Of course.
Doctor, is this your signature?
Yes it is.
This in an order for Private Santiago to be put on restricted duty. Would you read your hand written remarks at the bottom of the page, please, "Initial testing negative. Patient complains of chest pains, shortness of breath, and fatigue. Restricted from running distances over five miles for one week."
"Initial testing negative. Patient complains of chest pains, shortness of breath, and fatigue. Restricted from running distances over five miles for one week."
Commander, isn't it possible that Santiago had a serious coronary condition, and it was that condition, and not some mysterious poison, that caused the accelerated chemical No. I personally give the men a physical examination every three months. And every three months Private Santiago got a clean bill of health.
No. I personally give the men a physical examination every three months. And every three months Private Santiago got a clean bill of health.
And that's why it had to be, poison, right, Commander? 'Cause Lord knows, if you put a man with a serious coronary condition back on duty with a clean bill of health, and that man died from a heart related incident, you'd have a lot to answer for, wouldn't you, doctor?
Object. Move to strike.
Sustained. Strike it.
No more questions, judge.
Dr. Stone, you've held a license to practice medicine for 21 years, you are Board Certified in Internal Medicine, you are the Chief of Internal Medicine at a hospital which serves over 8000 men. In your professional opinion, was Willy Santiago poisoned?
Your Honor, we re-new our objection to Commander Stone's testimony, and ask that it be stricken from the record. And we further ask that the Court instruct the jury to lend no weight to this witness's testimony.
The objection's overruled, counsel.
Sir, the defense strenuously objects and requests a meeting in chambers so that his honor might have an opportunity to hear discussion before ruling on the objection.
The objection of the defense has been heard and overruled.
Noted. The witness is an expert and the court will hear his opinion.
Noted. The witness is an expert and the court will hear his opinion.
Doctor, in your expert, professional opinion, was Willy Santiago poisoned?
Thank you, sir, I have no more Commander, you may step down.
Thank you, sir, I have no more Commander, you may step down.
Commander, you may step down.
Please the Court, while we reserve the right to call rebuttal witnesses if the need arises, the Government We'll stand in recess until ten- hundred hours this Monday, the l9th at which time the defense will call it's first witness.
We'll stand in recess until ten- hundred hours this Monday, the l9th at which time the defense will call it's first witness.
I strenuously object? Is that how it works? Objection. Overruled. No, no, no, no, I strenuously object. Oh, well if you strenuously object, let me take a moment to reconsider.
I got it on the record.
You also got it in the jury's head that we're afraid of the doctor. You object once so they can hear you say he's not a criminologist. You keep after it and it looks like this great cross we did was just a bunch of fancy lawyer tricks. It's the difference between paper law and Christ, you even had the Judge saying Stone was an expert!
Christ, you even had the Judge saying Stone was an expert!
Christ, you even had the Judge saying Stone was an expert!
Sam, she made a mistake. Let's not relive it.
I'm gonna go call my wife. I'll meet you tonight.
Why do you hate them so much?
They beat up on a weakling, and that's all they did. The rest is just smokefilled coffee-house crap. They tortured and tormented a weaker kid. They didn't like him. And they killed him. And why? Because he couldn't run very fast.
Alright. Everybody take the night I apologize, I,
I apologize, I,
It's alright. We've been working 20 hour days for three and a half weeks straight. Take the night off. Go see your wife, see your daughter. Jo, do whatever it is you do when you're not here. What day is tomorrow?
We'll start at ten.
We'll start at ten.
Why do you like them so much?
'Cause they stand on a wall.  And they say "Nothing's gonna hurt you tonight. Not on my watch."
Don't worry about the doctor. This trial starts Monday.
I'm sorry to bother you, I should've called first.
No, I was just watching a baseball I was wondering if how you'd feel about my taking you to dinner tonight.
I was wondering if how you'd feel about my taking you to dinner tonight.
Jo, are you asking me out on a date?
It sounded like you were asking me out on a date.
It sounded like you were asking me out on a date.
I wasn't.
I've been asked out on dates before, and that's what it sounded like.
Do you like seafood? I know a good seafood place.
My third case was a Drunk and Disorderly. The trial lasted nine weeks. I rounded up 31 people who were in the bar that night.
Nine weeks on a D and D? What was the prosecutor offering?
15 days.
Well, you sure hustled the shit outta After that, they moved me to internal Tough to blame them.
After that, they moved me to internal Tough to blame them.
Tough to blame them.
Where I've earned two distinguished service medals and two letters of Why are you always giving me your Because I want you to think I'm good I do.
Why are you always giving me your Because I want you to think I'm good I do.
Because I want you to think I'm good I do.
I do.
No you don't. I think you're an exceptional lawyer. I watch the jurors, they respond to you, they like you. I see you convincing them. I think Dawson and Downey are gonna end up owing their lives to you.
Jo. I think you have to prepare yourself for the fact that we're gonna lose.  Ross's opening speech, it was all  I mean, let's pretend for a minute that it would actually matter to this jury that the guys were given an order. We can't prove it ever  We'll keep doing what we're doing, and we'll put on a show, but at the end of the day, all we have is the testimony of two people accused of We'll find Markinson.
We'll find Markinson.
Jo, we're gonna lose. And we're gonna lose huge.
Corporal Howard, name some reasons why a marine would get a code red?
Being late for platoon or company meetings, keeping his barracks in disorder, falling back on a run.
Have you ever received a code red?
Yes sir. We were doing seven man assault drills, and my weapon slipped. It's just cause it was over a hundred degrees and my palms were sweaty and I'd forgot to use the resin like we were taught.
And what happened?
That night the guys in my squad threw a blanket over me and took turns punching me in the arm for five minutes. Then they poured glue on my hands. And it worked, too, 'cause I ain't never dropped my weapon since.
Was Private Santiago ever late for platoon meetings?
Yes sir.
Was his barracks ever in disorder?
Yes sir.
Did he ever fall back on a run?
All the time, sir.
Did he ever, prior to the night of August 6th, receive a code red?
No sir.
No, sir.
No, sir.
You got a code red 'cause your palms were sweaty. Why didn't Santiago, this burden to his unit, ever get Dawson wouldn't allow it, sir.
Dawson wouldn't allow it, sir.
Dawson wouldn't allow it.
The guys talked tough about Santiago, but they wouldn't go near him. They were too afraid of Dawson, sir.
Object. The witness is characterizing.
I'll rephrase. Jeffrey, did you ever want to give Santiago a code red?
Yes sir.
Why didn't you?
'Cause Dawson'd kick my butt, sir.
Good enough. Lt. Ross is gonna ask you some questions now.
Corporal Howard, I hold here The Marine Guide and General Information Handbook for New Recruits. Are you familiar with this book?
Yes sir.
Have you read it?
Yes sir.
Would you turn to the chapter that deals with code reds, please.
Just flip to the page in that book that discusses code reds.
Just flip to the page in that book that discusses code reds.
Sir, you see, Code Red is a term we use it's just used down at GITMO, sir. I don't know if it actually
We're in luck, then. The Marine Corps Guide for Sentry Duty, NAVY BASE Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. I assume we'll find the term code red and its definition in this book, am I correct?
No sir.
No? Corporal Howard, I'm a marine. Is their no book, no manual or pamphlet, no set of orders or regulations that let me know that, as a marine, one of my duties is to perform code reds?
No sir. No books, sir.
No further questions.
Corporal, would you turn to the page in this book that says where the enlisted men's mess hall is?
Lt. Kaffee, that's not in the book, I don't understand, how did you know where the enlisted men's mess hall was if it's not in this book?
I don't understand, how did you know where the enlisted men's mess hall was if it's not in this book?
I guess I just followed the crowd at chow time, sir.
No more questions.
Corporal Howard, you can step down.
Thank you, sir.
Seven tonight, we'll do a final Kendrick review. I want to slam- dunk this guy.
as it drives along a street in the D.C. business district. it's evening now and the windshield wipers are fighting against a rain KAFFEE pulls over at his usual newsstand. He hops out, leaving the lights flashing and the door open, and runs to the stand.
Hey, Luther.
Admiral, how's the big case goin'?
Nose to the grindstone.
No flies on you.
A rolling stone gathers no moss.
Yeah, well it ain't over til the fat lady sings.
Ain't that the truth. Catch you
Jesus fucking Christ!!
You left the door unlocked.
Scared the shit outta me.
Are you aware you're under subpoena?
Are you aware you're under subpoena?
Yes. I'm also aware that the lives of two marines are in your hands. If there was something I could do about that, I would, but since I can't, all I can do is help you. Why don't you drive, Lieutenant.
What do you know?
I know everything.
Was it a code red?
Did Kendrick give the order?
Did Kendrick give the order?
Did you witness it?
Did you witness it?
I didn't need to
Did you witness it?!
Then how do you know?
Then how do you know?
I know.
You know shit.
He was never gonna be transferred off the base.
Jessep was going to keep him on the base. He said he wanted him trained.
We've got the transfer order. It's got your signature.
I know. I signed it the morning you arrived in Cuba. Six days after Santiago died.
I'm gonna get you a deal. Some kind of immunity with the prosecutor. In about four days, you're gonna appear as a witness for the defense, and you're gonna tell the court exactly what you told me. Right now I'm gonna check you into a motel, and we're gonna start from the beginning.
I don't want a deal. And I don't want immunity.
I want you to know, I'm proud neither of what I've done nor what I'm doing.
Where is he?
The Route 23 Best Western.
I want him guarded.
That's probably a good idea.
This is Lt. Commander Joanne Galloway. My clearance code is 411273.
Clearance code?
Thank you.
I don't have a clearance code. Do you have a
It's Jo Galloway. I need to secure a
He also said that Jessep's lying about the transportation off the base. Jessep said six the next morning was the first flight Santiago could've left on, Markinson says there was a plane that left seven hours earlier.
That was impressive. Did you hear what I just said about the flight?
That was impressive. Did you hear what I just said about the flight?
Sam, when a plane takes off from a base, there's gotta be some kind of record kept, right?
Sam, when a plane takes off from a base, there's gotta be some kind of record kept, right?
We need the Tower Chief's Log for
Get it.
We're gonna win.
Jo, don't get crazy about this. We don't know who Markinson is. We don't know what the log book's gonna say. You just concentrate on Downey. I'm gonna talk to Ross and tell him where we are.
"Kaffee's got his case now, Kaffee's got his case now."
You are like seven of the strangest women I have ever met.
That was nice work today. The redirect on Howard.
I have Markinson.
Where is he?
A motel room in Arlington with 14 Federal Marshals outside his door. Take a sip of your drink.
The transfer order that Parkinson signed is phoney. And Jessep's statement that the six a.m. flight was the first available is a lie, we're checking the tower chief's log. But in the meantime I'm gonna put the Apostle Jon Kendrick on the stand and see if we can't have a little fun.
The transfer order that Parkinson signed is phoney. And Jessep's statement that the six a.m. flight was the first available is a lie, we're checking the tower chief's log. But in the meantime I'm gonna put the Apostle Jon Kendrick on the stand and see if we can't have a little fun.
I have an obligation to tell you that if you accuse Kendrick or Jessep of any crime without proper evidence, you'll be subject to Court-Martial for professional misconduct. And that's something that'll be stapled to every job application you ever fill out. Markinson's not gonna hold up, he's a crazy man. I'm not saying this to intimidate you. I'm being your lawyer.
Thanks, Jack. And I wanna tell you that I think the whole fuckin' bunch of you are certifiably insane. And this code of honor of yours makes me wanna beat the shit outta something.
Don't you dare lump me in with Jessep and Markinson and Kendrick because we wear the same uniform. I'm your friend, Danny, and I'm telling you, I don't think your clients belong in jail. But I don't get to make that decision. I represent the Government of the United States. Without passion or prejudice. And my client has a I want you to acknowledge that the judge advocate has made you aware of the possible consequences involved in accusing a marine officer of a felony without proper evidence.
I've been so advised.
You got bullied into that courtroom, Danny. By everyone. By Dawson, by Galloway, shit, I practically dared you. Not for a second have you believed you could win. You got bullied into that room by the memory of a dead lawyer.
You're a lousy softball player, Jack.
Your boys are going down. I can't stop it anymore.
Batter up, J.J.
Lt. Kendrick, in your opinion, was Private Santiago a good marine?
I'd say he was about average.
Lieutenant, you signed three fitness reports on Santiago. On all three reports you indicated a rating of Below Average.
Yes. Private Santiago was Below Average I didn't see the need in trampling on a man's grave.
We appreciate that, but you're under oath now, and I think unpleasant as it may be, we'd all just as soon hear the truth.
I'm aware of my oath.
Lieutenant, these are the last three fitness reports you signed for Lance Corporal Dawson and PFC Downey. Downey received three straight marks of Exceptional. Dawson received two marks of Exceptional, but on this most recent report, dated June 9th of this year, he received a rating of Below Average. It's this last report that I'd like to discuss for a moment.
That's fine.
Lance Corporal Dawson's ranking after Infantry Training School was perfect. Records indicate that over half that class has since been promoted to full corporal, while Dawson has remained a lance corporal. Was Dawson's promotion held up because of this last fitness report.
I'm sure it was.
Do you recall why Dawson was given such a poor grade on this report?
I'm sure I don't. I have many men in my charge, Lieutenant, I write many fitness reports.
Do you recall an incident involving a PFC Curtis Barnes who'd been found stealing liquor from the Officer's Did you report private Barnes to the proper authorities?
Did you report private Barnes to the proper authorities?
Did you report private Barnes to the proper authorities?
I have two books at my bedside, Lieutenant, the Marine Code of Conduct and the King James Bible. The only proper authorities I'm aware of are my Commanding Officer, Colonel Nathan R. Jessep and the Lord our God.
Lt. Kendrick, at your request, I can have the record reflect your lack of acknowledgment of this court as a proper authority.
Objection. Argumentative.
Watch yourself, counselor.
Did you report Private Barnes to your superiors?
I remember thinking very highly of Private Barnes, and not wanting to see his record tarnished by a formal You preferred it to be handled within the unit.
You preferred it to be handled within the unit.
I most certainly did.
Lieutenant, do you know what a Code Red is?
Yes I do.
Have you ever ordered a code red?
No, I have not.
Lieutenant, did you order Dawson and two other men to make sure that Private Barnes receive no food or drink except water for a period of seven days?
That's a distortion of the truth. Private Barnes was placed on barracks restriction. He was given water and vitamin supplements, and I assure you that at no time was his health in danger.
I'm sure it was lovely for Private Barnes, but you did order the barracks restriction, didn't you? And you did order the denial of food.
Wouldn't this form of discipline be considered a code red?
Wouldn't this form of discipline be considered a code red?
Not necessarily.
If I called the other 8000 men at Guantanamo Bay to testify, would they consider it a Code Red?
Please the court, the witness can't possibly testify as to what 8000 other men would say. We object to this entire line of questioning as argumentative and irrelevant badgering of the witness.
The Government's objection is sustained, Lt. Kaffee, and I would remind you that you're now questioning marine officer with an impeccable service record.
Thank you judge.
Lieutenant, was Dawson given a rating of Below Average on this last fitness report because you learned held been sneaking food to Private Barnes? Not so fast. Corporal Dawson was found to be Below Average because he committed a crime.
Corporal Dawson was found to be Below Average because he committed a crime.
What crime did he commit? Lieutenant Kendrick? Dawson brought a hungry guy some food. What crime did he commit?
He disobeyed an order.
And because he did, because he exercised his own set of values, because he made a decision about the welfare of a marine that was in conflict with an order of yours, he was punished, is that right?
Corporal Dawson disobeyed an order.
Yeah, but it wasn't a order, was it? After all, it's peacetime. He wasn't being asked to secure a hill. or advance on a beachhead. I mean, surely a marine of Dawson's intelligence can be trusted to determine on his own, which are the really important orders, and which orders might, say, be morally questionable. Lt. Kendrick? Can he? Can Corporal Dawson determine on his own which orders he's gonna
No, he can not.
A lesson he learned after the Curtis Barnes incident, am I right?
I would think so.
You know so, don't you, Lieutenant.
Lieutenant Kendrick, one final questionLieutenant Kendrick, one final questionLieutenant Kendrick, one final questionplease the court
I told those men not to touch would've disobeyed you again?
is it reasonable to think that he would've disobeyed you again?
Lieutenant, don't answer that.
You don't have to, I'm through.
Lieutenant Kendrick, did you order Corporal Dawson and Private Downey to give Willy Santiaga code red?
Lt. Kendrick, did you
No I did not.
Thank you.
What's the word?
This is the tower chief's log for that night. Jessep was telling the truth. The six a.m. flight was the first plane out.
Let me see that.
Workin' late, lieutenant?
There was no flight out at eleven o'clock. What the fuck are you trying to pull?
The first flight stateside left Guantanamo Bay at eleven and arrived at Andrews Airforce Base, Maryland, at a few minutes past two.
Then why the hell isn't it listed in the Tower Chief's log?!
Why the hell did you think it would
What are you telling me? He fixed the log book?
Well, maybe he can make it so a plane didn't take off, but I can sure as hall prove that one landed. I'll get the log book from Andrews.
He made an entire flight disappear?
Nathan Jessep is about to be named Director of Operations for the National Security Council. You don't get to that position without knowing how to side-step a few land mines. And putting me on the stand isn't gonna make him step on one.
You're taking the stand. Thursday.
There's gotta be someone who can testify to the flight. A ground crew member. Someone.
Do you have any idea how many planes take off and land every day? A kid from the ground crew isn't gonna remember a flight that landed four weeks ago.
Forget the flight. We'll put Markinson on the stand and we'll deal with Jessep's refusal to transfer Santiago and he'll testify to the forged transfer order. That'll be enough. That and Downey's testimony really oughta be enough.
Private Downey, why did you go into Santiago's room on the night of the To give Private Santiago a Code Red, And why did you give him a Code Red?
To give Private Santiago a Code Red, And why did you give him a Code Red?
And why did you give him a Code Red?
I was ordered to give him a Code Red by the Executive officer for Rifle Security Company Windward, Lieutenent Jonathan James Kendrick.
You're gonna do fine.
You think they'll let us go back to our platoon soon, ma'am?

You remember the order of the Are you sure?
Are you sure?
Are you sure?
And you'll use small words?
And you'll use small words?
He gets rattled when he doesn't understand something.
He gets rattled when he doesn't understand something.
I'm just saying go slow.
I'm just saying go slow.
I'm gonna go slow.
And get him off as fast as you can.
And get him off as fast as you can.
And get him off as fast as you can.
He's gonna be fine.
He's gonna be fine.
He's gonna be fine.
Private, I want you to tell us one last timeA code red was ordered by my platoon commander, Lt. Jonathan James Thank you. Your witness.
Thank you. Your witness.
Private, for the week of 2 August, the switch log has you down at Post 39, is that correct?
I'm sure it is, sir, they keep that log pretty good.
How far is it from Post 39 to the Windward barracks?
It's a ways, sir, it's a hike.
About how far by jeep?
About ten, fifteen minutes, sir.
Have you ever had to walk it?
Yes sir. That day, sir. Friday. The Pick-up Private sir, that's what we call the fella who drops us at our posts and picks us up. also, 'cause he can get girls in New York City the Pick-up Private got a
.Right at 39. He pulled up and blam! .A blowout-with no spare. The two of us had to double-time it back to the barracks.
And if it's ten or fifteen minutes by jeep, I'm guessing it must be a good hour by foot, am I right?
Pick-up and me did it in 45 flat, Not bad. Now you say your assault on Private Santiago was the result of an order that Lt. Kendrick gave in your barracks room at 16Not bad. Now you say your assault on Private Santiago was the result of an order that Lt. Kendrick gave in your barracks room at 16Yes sir.
But you just said that you didn't make it back to Windward Barracks until 16If you didn't make it back to your barracks until 16If you didn't make it back to your barracks until 16You see sir, there was a flat tire.
Private, did you ever actually hear Lt. Kendrick order a Code Red?
No, sir.
Please the court, I'd like to request a recess in order to confer with my Why did you go into Santiago's room?
Why did you go into Santiago's room?
The witness has rights.
The witness has been read his rights, The question will be repeated.
The question will be repeated.
The question will be repeated.
Why did you go into Santiago's room?
Your honor
Did Corporal Dawson tell you to do
Did Corporal Dawson tell you to do
He did, didn't he? Dawson told you to give Santiago a code red.
Don't look at him.
Don't look at him.
Private. Answer the Lieutenant's Yes, Lieutenant. I was given an order by my squad leader, Lance Corporal Harold W. Dawson of the U.S. Marine Corps. And I followed it.
Private. Answer the Lieutenant's Yes, Lieutenant. I was given an order by my squad leader, Lance Corporal Harold W. Dawson of the U.S. Marine Corps. And I followed it.
Yes, Lieutenant. I was given an order by my squad leader, Lance Corporal Harold W. Dawson of the U.S. Marine Corps. And I followed it.
Where do you think he is?
As far as Downey was concerned, it was an order from Kendrick. It didn't matter that he didn't hear it first hand. He doesn't distinguish between the two.
Danny. I'm sorry.
Don't worry about it.
Sam and I were just talking about how all we really have to do is call some witnesses who'll talk about implied orders. or maybe we put Downey back on the stand before we get to Dawson.
Maybe if we work at it we can get Dawson charged with the Kennedy
Are you drunk?
Pretty much. Yeah.
I'll make a pot of coffee. We have a long night's work ahead.
She's gonna make coffee. That's nice. He wasn't in his room. He wasn't even there. That was an important piece of information, don't you think?
Danny, it was just a setback. I'm sorry. But we'll fix it and then move on to Markinson.
Markinson's dead. You really gotta hand it to those Federal Marshals, boy. It's not like he hanged himself by his shoelaces or slashed his wrists with a concealed butter knife. This guy got, into full dress uniform, stood in the middle of that room, drew a nickle plated pistol from his holster, and fired a bullet into his
You really gotta hand it to those Federal Marshals, boy.  It's not like he hanged himself by his shoelaces or slashed his wrists with a concealed butter knife. This guy got, into full dress uniform, stood in the middle of that room, drew a nickle plated pistol from his holster, and fired a bullet into his
Anyway, since we seem to be out of witnesses, I thought I'd drink a I still think we can win.
I still think we can win.
Then maybe you should drink a little.
Look, we'll go to Randolph in the morning and make a motion for a continuance. 24 hours.
Why would we want to do that?
To subpoena Colonel Jessep.
Listen for a second
Listen for a second
Just hear me out
Just hear me out
No. I won't listen to you and I won't hear you out. Your passion is comforting, Jo. It's also useless. Private Downey needed a trial lawyer You chicken-shit. You're gonna use what happened today as an excuse to give up.
You chicken-shit. You're gonna use what happened today as an excuse to give up.
It's over!
Why did you ask Jessep for the transfer order?
What are you
In Cuba. Why did you ask Jessep for the transfer order?
What does it matter
I wanted the damn transfer order!
I wanted the damn transfer order!
Bullshit! You could've gotten it by picking up the phone and calling any one of a dozen departments at the Pentagon. You didn't want the transfer order. You wanted to see Jessep's reaction when you asked for the transfer order. You had an instinct. And it was confirmed by Markinson. Now damnit, let's put Jessep on the stand and end this thing!
What possible good could come from putting Jessep on the stand?
He told Kendrick to order the Code He did?! Why didn't you say so!? That's qreat! And of course you have proof of that.
He did?! Why didn't you say so!? That's qreat! And of course you have proof of that.
Ah, I keep forgettingAh, I keep forgettingAh, I keep forgettingYou put him on the stand and you get it from him!
Yes. No problem. We get it from him. Colonel, isn't it true that you ordered the Code Red on Santiago?
Look, we're all a little
I'm sorry, your time's run out. What do we have for the losers, Judge? Well, for our defendants it's a lifetime at exotic Fort Levenworth. And for defense counsel Kaffee? That's right it's a court martial. Yes, Johnny, after falsely accusing a marine officer of conspiracy, Lt. Kaffee will have a long and prosperous career teaching typewriter maintenance at the Rocco Columbo School for Women. Thank you for playing "Should We or Should-We-Not Follow the Advice of the Galacticly Stupid". I'm sorry I lost you your set of steak knives.
I'm sorry I lost you your set of steak knives.
Stop cleaning up.
Sam. Stop cleaning up.
You want a drink?
SAM takes a swig from the bottle.
Is your father proud of you?
Don't do this to yourself.
I'll bet he is. I'll bet he bores the shit outta the neighbors and the relatives. "Sam, made Law Review. He's got a big case he's making He's arguing making an argument." I think my father would've enjoyed seeing me graduate from law school. I think he would've liked that. an awful lot.
Did I ever tell you that I wrote a paper on your father in college?
He was one of the best trial lawyers Yes he was.
He was one of the best trial lawyers Yes he was.
Yes he was.
And if I were Dawson and Downey and I had a choice between you or your father to represent me in this case, I'd take you any day of the week and twice on Sunday. You should have seen yourself thunder away at Would you put Jessep on the stand?
Would you put Jessep on the stand?
You think my father would've?
You think my father would've?
With the evidence we've got? Not in a million years. But here's the thing and there's really no way of getting around this neither Lionel Kaffee nor Sam Weinberg are lead counsel for the defense in the matter of U.S. versus Dawson and Downey. So there's only one question. What would you do?
JO ignores them and keeps walking. The car crawls along with JO starts walking faster.
Jo, we look ridiculous.  Stop the car.

I apologize. I was angry and. I'm sorry about what I said.
I'm gonna put Jessep on the stand.
I say we hit him with the phoney transfer order.
What's the transfer order without a We have a witness.
We have a witness.
A dead witness.
And in the hands of a lesser attorney, that'd be a problem.
Look at this. Last night he was swimming in his Jack Daniels, now he can leap tall buildings in a single I'm getting my second wind. Siddown. Both of you.
I'm getting my second wind. Siddown. Both of you.
Jessep told Kendrick to order a code red. Kendrick did, and our clients followed the order. The cover-up isn't our case. To win, Jessep has to tell the jury that he ordered the code red.
And you think you can got him to just say it?
I think he wants to say it. I think he's pissed off that he's gotta hide from us. I think he wants to say that he made a command decision and that's the end of it. He eats breakfast 80 yards away from 4000 Cubans who are trained to kill him, and no one's gonna tell him how to run his base. Least of all the pushy broad, the smart Jew, and the Harvard clown. I need to shake him and put him on the defensive.
That's it? That's the plan?
That's the plan.
You're gonna trip Jessep and he's gonna confess.
I'm not gonna trip him. I'm gonna lead him right where he's dying to And how are you gonna do that?
And how are you gonna do that?
I have no idea. I need my bat.
I need my bat. I think better with my bat. Where's my bat?
I need my bat. I think better with my bat. Where's my bat?
I put it in the closet.
You put it in the closet.
I was tripping over it.
He thinks better with his bat?
Stay here, I'm going to the office for a while.
Boy, he does think better with that
I need you to do something.
What's goin' on?
I've gotta go out to Andrews.
Is Sam here?
Not yet.
Where is he?
He's on his way.
Did he got the guys?
Yes. Listen, can I talk to you for a
How're you feeling?
I think he's gonna have his hands full today.
When you're out there. If it's not gonna happen he's not gonna say it  .don't go for it.
If you feel like. if you feel like. You could get in trouble.  I'm special counsel for internal affairs, and I'm telling you, you could get in a lot of trouble.
Why Lt. Commander Galloway. are you suggesting I back off a material If you think you can't get him. Do you think I can get him?
If you think you can't get him. Do you think I can get him?
Do you think I can get him?
I think it doesn't matter what I think. I'm an administrator.  I can't seem to defend people.
You're my hero, Joanne. From the first day, you were a lawyer. Live with that.
Call your witness.
Where's Sam?
He'll be here.
Lieutenant, call your witness.
Defense calls Colonel Nathan Jessep.
Colonel, do you solemnly swear that the testimony you will give in this General Court-Martial will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth so help you God?
Yes I do.
Would you state your name, rank, and current billet for the record please, Colonel Nathan R. Jessep, Commanding officer, Marine Ground Forces, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Colonel Nathan R. Jessep, Commanding officer, Marine Ground Forces, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Thank you, sir, would you have a seat, please.
Colonel, when you learned of Santiago's letter to the NIS, you had a meeting with your two senior officers, is that right?
The Executive Officer, Lt. Jonathan Kendrick, and the Company Commander, Captain Matthew Markinson.
The Executive Officer, Lt. Jonathan Kendrick, and the Company Commander, Captain Matthew Markinson.
And at present, Captain Markinson is dead, is that right?
And at present, Captain Markinson is dead, is that right?
Objection. I'd like to know just what defense counsel is implying?
I'm implying simply that, at present, Captain Markinson is not alive.
Surely Colonel Jessep doesn't need to appear in this courtroom to confirm that information.
I just wasn't sure if the witness was aware that two days ago, Captain Markinson took his own life with a .45 caliber pistol.
Yes sir. Colonel, at the time of this meeting, you gave Lt. Kendrick an order, is that right?
I told Kendrick to tell his men that Santiago wasn't to be touched.
And did you give an order to Captain Markinson as well?
I ordered Markinson to have Santiago transferred off the base immediately.
I felt that his life might be in danger once word of the letter got Grave danger?
I felt that his life might be in danger once word of the letter got Grave danger?
Grave danger?
Is there another kind?
We have the transfer order that you and Markinson co-signed, ordering that Santiago be lifted on a flight leaving Guantanamo at six the next morning. Was that the first flight off the bass?
The six a.m. flight was the first flight off the base.
Colonel, you flew up to Washington early this morning, is that right?
I notice you're wearing your Class A appearance in dress uniform for court As are you, Lieutenant.
I notice you're wearing your Class A appearance in dress uniform for court As are you, Lieutenant.
As are you, Lieutenant.
Did you wear that uniform on the Please the Court, is this dialogue relevant to anything in particular?
Please the Court, is this dialogue relevant to anything in particular?
The defense didn't have an opportunity to depose this witness, your honor. I'd ask the Court for a little A very little latitude.
A very little latitude.
I wore fatigues on the plane.
I wore fatigues on the plane.
And you brought your dress uniform with you.
And a toothbrush? A shaving kit? Change of underwear?
And a toothbrush? A shaving kit? Change of underwear?
Your honor.
Is the Colonel's underwear a matter of national security?
You better get somewhere fast with this, Lieutenant.
Yes sir. Colonel?
I brought a change of clothes and some personal items.
Thank you.
After Dawson and Downey's arrest on the night of the sixth, Santiago's barracks room was sealed off and its contents inventoried.  Pairs of camouflage pants, 6 camouflage shirts, 2 pairs of boots, 1 pair of brown shoes, 1 pair of tennis shoes, 8 khaki tee-shirts, 2 belts, 1 sweater
Please the Court, is there a question anywhere in our future?
Lt. Kaffee, I have to
I'm wondering why Santiago wasn't
I'll tell you what, we'll get back to that one in a minute.
This is a record of all telephone calls made from your base in the past 24 hours. After being subpoenaed to Washington, you made three calls.
I've highlighted those calls in yellow. Do you recognize those I called Colonel Fitzhuqhes in Quantico, Va. I wanted to let him know I'd be in town. The second call was to set up a meeting with Congressman Ramond of the House Armed Services Committee, and the third call was to my sister Elizabeth.
I called Colonel Fitzhuqhes in Quantico, Va. I wanted to let him know I'd be in town. The second call was to set up a meeting with Congressman Ramond of the House Armed Services Committee, and the third call was to my sister Elizabeth.
Why did you make that call, sir?
I thought she might like to have dinner tonight.
I'm gonna put a stop to this now.
I'm gonna put a stop to this now.
Your honor, these are the telephone records from GITMO for August 6th. And these are 14 letters that Santiago wrote in nine months requesting, in fact begging, for a transfer. Upon hearing the news that he was finally getting his transfer, Santiago was so excited, that do you know how many people he called? Zero. Nobody. Not one call to his parents saying he was coming home. Not one call to a friend saying can you pick me up at the airport. He was asleep in his bed at midnight, and according to you he was getting on a plane in six hours, yet everything he owned was hanging neatly in his closet and folded neatly in his footlocker. You were leaving for one day and you packed a bag and made three phone calls. Santiago was leaving for the rest of his life, and he hadn't called a soul and he hadn't packed a thing. Can you explain that? The fact is there was no transfer order. Santiago wasn't going anywhere, isn't that right, Colonel.
Object. Your Honor, it's obvious that Lt. Kaffee's intention this morning is to smear a high ranking marine officer in the desperate hope that the mere appearance of impropriety will win him points with the jury. It's my recommendation, sir, that Lt. Kaffee receive an official reprimand from the bench, and that the witness be excused with the Court's deepest apologies.
Your honor
Your honor
The objection's noted.

Is this funny, sir?
No. It's not. It's tragic.
Do you have an answer?
Absolutely. My answer is I don't have the first damn clue. Maybe he was an early morning riser and he liked to pack in the nq. And maybe he didn't have any friends. I'm an educated man, but I'm afraid I can't speak intelligently about the travel habits of William Santiago. What I do know is that he was set to leave the base at 0600. Now are these really the questions I was called here to answer? Phone calls and footlockers? Please tell me you've got something more, Lieutenant. Please tell me there's an ace up your sleeve. These two marines are on trial for their lives. Please tell me their lawyer hasn't pinned their hopes to a phone Do you have any other questions for me, counselor?
Lt. Kaffee?
Lieutenant, do you have anything further for this witness?
Thanks, Danny. I love Washington.
Excuse me, I didn't dismiss you.
I beg your pardon.
I'm not through with my examination. Sit down.
What's that?
What's that?
I'd appreciate it if he addressed me as Colonel or Sir. I believe I've earned it.
Defense counsel will address the witness as Colonel or Sir.
I don't know what the hell kind of an outfit you're running here.
And the witness will address this Court as Judge or Your Honor. I'm quite certain I've earned it. Take your seat, Colonel.
What would you like to discuss now! My favorite color?
Colonel, the six a.m. flight, was the first one off the base?
There wasn't a flight that left seven hours earlier and landed at Andrews Airforce Base at 2 a.m.?
There wasn't a flight that left seven hours earlier and landed at Andrews Airforce Base at 2 a.m.?
Lieutenant, I think we've covered this, haven't we?
Your Honor, these are the Tower Chief's Logs for both Guantanamo Bay and Andrews Airforce Base. The Guantanamo log lists no flight that left at eleven p.m., and the Andrews log lists no flight that landed at 2 a.m. I'd like to admit them as Defense Exhibits "A" and "B".
I don't understand. You're admitting evidence of a flight that never We believe it did, sir. Defense'll be calling Airman Cecil O'Malley and Airman Anthony Perez. They were working the ground crew at Andrews at two a.m. on the seventh.
We believe it did, sir. Defense'll be calling Airman Cecil O'Malley and Airman Anthony Perez. They were working the ground crew at Andrews at two a.m. on the seventh.
Your Honor, these men weren't on the list. Rebuttal witnesses, Your Honor, called specifically to refute testimony offered under direct I'll allow the witnesses.
I'll allow the witnesses.
This is ridiculous.
Colonel, a moment ago
Check the Tower Logs for christ's We'll get to the airmen in just a minute, sir. A moment ago said that you ordered Kendrick to order his men not to touch Santiago.
We'll get to the airmen in just a minute, sir. A moment ago said that you ordered Kendrick to order his men not to touch Santiago.
That's right.
And Kendrick was clear on what you Any chance Kendrick ignored the order?
Any chance Kendrick ignored the order?
Any chance Kendrick ignored the order?
Ignored the order?
Any chance he just forgot about it?
Any chance Kendrick left your office and said, "The 'old man's wrong"?
Any chance Kendrick left your office and said, "The 'old man's wrong"?
When Kendrick spoke to the platoon and ordered them not to touch Santiago, any chance they ignored Have you ever spent time in an infantry unit, son?
When Kendrick spoke to the platoon and ordered them not to touch Santiago, any chance they ignored Have you ever spent time in an infantry unit, son?
Have you ever spent time in an infantry unit, son?
No sir.
Ever served in a forward area?
No sir.
Ever put your life in another man's hands, ask him to put his life in No sir.
No sir.
We follow orders, son. We follow orders or people die. It's that simple. Are we clear?
Yes sir.
Are we clear?
KAFFEE speaks with the quiet confidence that comes from knowing you're about to drop your opponents
Colonel, I have just one more question before I call Airman O'Malley and Airman PerezPrivate Santiago was a sub-standard marine. He was being transferred off the base because
But that's not what you said. You said he was being transferred because he was in grave danger.
Yes. That's correct, but
You said, "He was in danger". I said, "Grave danger". You said
Yes, I recall what
I can have the Court Reporter read back your
I know what I said. I don't need it read back to me like I'm a damn
Then why the two orders? Why did you
Sometimes men take matters into their own hands.
No sir. You made it clear just a moment ago that your men never take matters into their own hands. Your men follow orders or people die. So Santiago shouldn't have been in any danger at all, should he have,
You little bastard.
Your Honor, I have to ask for a recess I'd like an answer to the question, The Court'll wait for answer.
I'd like an answer to the question, The Court'll wait for answer.
The Court'll wait for answer.
If Kendrick told his men that Santiago wasn't to be touched, then why did he have to be transferred?

Kendrick ordered the code red, didn't he? Because that's what you told Kendrick to do.
KAFFEE will plow through the objections of ROSS and the admonishments of RANDOLPH.
KAFFEE will plow through the objections of ROSS and the admonishments of RANDOLPH.
And when it went bad, you cut these guys loose.
Your Honor
That'll be all, counsel.
You had Markinson sign a phony transfer order
You doctored the log books.
You doctored the log books.
Damnit Kaffee!!
I'll ask for the forth time. You You want answers?
You want answers?
I think I'm entitled to them.
You want answers?!
I want the truth.
You can't handle the truth!
Son, we live in a world that has walls. And those walls have to be guarded by men with guns. Who's gonna do it? You? You, Lt. Weinberg? I have a greater responsibility than you can possibly fathom. You weep for Santiago and you curse the marines. You have that luxury. You have the luxury of not knowing what I knowDid you order the code red?
I did the job you sent me to do.
Did you order the code red?
You're goddamn right I did. Please the court, I suggest the jury be dismissed so that we can move to an immediate Article 39a Session. The witness has rights.
Please the court, I suggest the jury be dismissed so that we can move to an immediate Article 39a Session. The witness has rights.
Lt. Ross?

The Sergeant at Arms will take the jury to an ante-room where you'll wait until further instruction. What the hell's going on? Captain, what the hell's going on? I did my job. I'd do it again. Now I'm getting on a plane and going back to my base.
What the hell's going on? Captain, what the hell's going on? I did my job. I'd do it again. Now I'm getting on a plane and going back to my base.
Captain, what the hell's going on? I did my job. I'd do it again. Now I'm getting on a plane and going back to my base.
M.P.'s, guard the prisoner.
Guard the prisoner.
What the hell
Colonel Jessep, you have the right to remain silent. Any statement you do make can be used against you in a trial by court-martial or other judicial or administrative proceeding. You have the right.
I'm being charged with a crime? I'm that's what this is I'm being charged with a crime? I'm that's what's happening? This I'm this is funny, you know that, this
I'm gonna tear your eyes right outta your head and piss in your dead skull. You fucked with the wrong marine.
Colonel Jessep, do you understand those rights as I have just read then to you?
I saved lives. That boy was there was a weak link. I saved lives, you hear me?
You fuckin' people.  You have no idea how to defend a  All you did was weaken a country today, Kaffee. That's all you did. You put people in danger. Sweet dreams, son.
Don't call me son. I'm a lawyer, and an officer of the United States Navy. And you're under arrest you sonofabitch.
The witness is excused.
Have the jurors reached a verdict?
We have, sir.
On the charge of Murder, the Members find the defendants Not Guilty.
On the charge of Conspiracy to Commit Murder, the Members find the defendants Not Guilty.
On the charge of Conduct Unbecoming a United States Marine, the members find the defendants Guilty as Charged.
The defendants are hereby sentenced by this court to time already served, and are ordered.
.And are ordered to be dishonorably discharged from the marine corps.  This Court-Martial is adjourned.
Harold, I'm sorry.
Harold, I'm sorry.
I don't understand. Colonel Jessep said he ordered the Code Red.
I don't understand. Colonel Jessep said he ordered the Code Red.
I know, but
Colonel Jessep said he ordered the Code Red, what did we do wrong?
It's not as simple as
What did we do wrong?
We did nothing wrong.
Yes you did! A jury just said your conduct was unbecoming a marine. What does that mean?!
You're the lawyer.
You're the marine.
Not anymore.
I never meant to hurt Willy. Kaffee, I've gotta take these guys over to personnel for some paper
They stop and turn around.
You don't need to wear a patch on your arm to have honor.
You don't need to wear a patch on your arm to have honor.
DAWSON and DOWNEY come to attention.
There's an officer on deck.
Airmen Cecil O'Malley and Anthony Perez? What exactly were these guys gonna testify to?
Unless I'm mistaken they were gonna testify, under oath, that they have absolutely no recollection of
Strong witnesses.
And very handsome, too, don't you I'll see you around the campus. I've gotta go arrest Kendrick.
I'll see you around the campus. I've gotta go arrest Kendrick.
Tell him I say "Hi".
Will do.
What do you say we take the rest of the day off. Go out someplace. Sam? Champagne? Yoo-Hoo?
Thanks, I can't. I'm gonna go home and talk to my daughter. I think she's gotta be bilingual by now.
So what's next for you?
Staff Sargeant Henry Williamson. He went to the movies on company time. What about you?
Me? Oh. you know. the usual.
Just pretty much generally annoying So what do you say? How 'bout a No. How 'bout a date. A real date. Dinner. Attractive clothes. The works.
So what do you say? How 'bout a No. How 'bout a date. A real date. Dinner. Attractive clothes. The works.
No. How 'bout a date. A real date. Dinner. Attractive clothes. The works.
Sounds good. Who do you think I should call?
I'll pick you up at seven.
What are you gonna do now?
I'm gonna get started on Henry Stand my post for a while.
Wear matching socks.
WritersOpen on ABEL MORALES. It is early morning and still almost dark out. He has a rugged yet prosperously-handsome face and is in his mid-thirties. He is struggling to get started with his morning jog.
Good morning. JULIAN speaks English with a well-sanded accent. Is it Central American or Mexican? The female collector gives him a He heads through the booth, but there is still traffic on the other side as the lanes merge together. Just as the traffic is about to pick up he looks in his rearview mirror and we see TWO GUYS come walking through the traffic and towards the cab. Before we know it they are climbing up the cab steps. The GUY on the driver's side, LOUIS SERVIDIO, is small and very slight but he moves with great speed and strength. He shatters the glass side window with his elbow. Unlocks the door just as his partner, THUG #2, does the same thing on the passenger side, but he is holding a gun. They are not wearing masks. It's very brazen. Before THUG #2 even asks JULIAN to get out of the cab LOUIS SERVIDIO crushes him in the jaw with three swift punches then pulls him out of the cab and down onto the roadway. LOUIS SERVIDIO pulls the door shut and they drive away with the truck leaving JULIAN sitting in the middle of the road staring, as blood starts to flow from his jaw.
You look very nice.
You look very nice.
You look very nice.
Thank you.
You sure?
ABEL walks around and opens his trunk. He takes out two large empty briefcases. He carries the briefcases as they both walk over to a large, unmarked, armored van that is idling in the middle of the parking lot. Two ARMED GUARDS get out of the van. One is holding a clipboard. He walks up to ANNA and ABEL. He hands them the clipboard. They look at each other one last time and then both sign the document. The other GUARD opens up the back of the truck. ABEL hands him the briefcases and the guard begins to fill them with cash. Lots of cash. ABEL and ANNA stand at the open back of the van and just watch. Finally he finishes and hands the now- heavy cases to ABEL. ABEL picks up the two cases and walks a bit away from the truck. He turns to ANNA.
We don't have any more money so what else could I do. She gives a small smile. He looks at his watch. They kiss.
So how are we this morning?

Well I woke up feeling very good about this.
They both take a look at their watches.
Well we are going all in. so now I love it. Gives him another slight smile. They stand around in awkward silence. Finally a late-model Ford Ltd. station wagon pulls into the lot.
So why is it you want this land?
I'm sorry?
It has been difficult for you to get me here, no? Over a year?
Almost two.
There are many like it around? And thanks to all these tests you paid for, we now know it is as much of a mess below the ground as it is above. My people have looked at your books, I know this is a lot of money for you, so why have you kept on us so. just for this ugly and polluted little piece of the earth.
I have been looking over my fence at this property for a very long So it is just proximity?
So it is just proximity?
No. I imagine I want it for the same reason you did.
And what's that?
To grow.
Well, I am in the garment business so I appreciate that sentiment. But I inherited this land from my uncle. Sadly he had no children of his own. He was the one that let them build these tanks here. So this place can do little for me. in fact thanks to all those tests you've done it may be a liability. As you know I offered to lease the site to you at a fair price, but you were not interested?
Why not?
Why not?
I like to own the things I use.
I can see that. Long pause.
Yes. This contract here, your lawyers have fully reviewed it?
Yes. This contract here, your lawyers have fully reviewed it?
Of course.
And you have brought the money?  So you realize you have only thirty days to close this transaction?
I understand.
I want you to know this up front. I am a very fair man but I believe in honoring contracts. You will fulfill your end of this contract and the property is yours. If you can't we will keep your money and will sell it to your competitor who has been chasing us almost as badly as you have. I like you, but know that the only reason I am choosing you is because of the favorable terms of this contract. So this is business. and when you sign I understand.
I understand.
Well then, let's see this money, and then I will sign these papers. ABEL turns to ANDREW and gives a slight nod. ANDREW pulls the black briefcase onto the table and opens it. It has seven hundred thousand dollars in cash in it. He slides it over to their side. The old man signs the contract and they shake EXT. MASSIVE OIL TANK FARM PARKING LOT - DAY ABEL stands next to ANDREW's car.
It's not ours yet.
It's not ours yet.
Well, it was a hell of a job just getting them to this point. It's a good day for us. Take a walk around. Enjoy it for a second. ANDREW gets in his car and drives away. ABEL looks around and decides to go for a little walk.
There he is. He walks up behind him and they both look out in silence for a beat.
There he is. He walks up behind him and they both look out in silence for a beat.
Thank you.
I mean it. You and your men should be very proud.
We are.
Most people don't have anything beautiful like this to show for their day's work. You are a lucky I am.
I am.
Well I thank you. my family will be very happy here.
I hope so.
Now I think I owe you some money.
That may be true.
It is. ABEL reaches into his jacket pocket and takes out a thick envelope of cash. As he does we see a transformation of his personality from pleasant philosopher to a direct voice of unquestioned authority.
Well, I'll let you go. He says this as he leads him to the door.
Well, I'll let you go. He says this as he leads him to the door.
It's being replaced, as I mentioned to your wife, that was an error on our part. Congratulations on your Thank you.
Thank you.
They broke his jaw.
Have they found the truck?
Are you alright?
Are you alright?

Have the police been here yet?
He was left in the middle of the highway without a truck, they brought him in.
Can you speak? ANNA'S temper is rising.
Not for a couple days. Can I speak with you outside? ANNA heads out into the hallway. ABEL looks around a beat then follows.
Did they sign the contract?
And took the deposit?
And took the deposit?
So it's a go?
So it's a go?

To you as well.
To you as well.
We have thirty days? He nods ever so slightly yes, and she gives him a knowing smile back of equal measure. We are beginning to see that they actually work quite well together.
These fucking guys. This poor kid has been working his ass off.
Do you want me to speak to my Brother about this?
No.don't talk to him or your This can't continue.
This can't continue.
It won't.
It will if we don't do something.
I'm meeting with the D.A. in the Oh, fuck the D.A. He's more interested in coming after us than helping us. ABEL looks around in disapproval. She thinks this through and then looks in at JULIAN.
Oh, fuck the D.A. He's more interested in coming after us than helping us. ABEL looks around in disapproval. She thinks this through and then looks in at JULIAN.
No we are not.
Really. because they are.
Well I'm not. They look each other over. She then finally leans in and gives him a caring kiss, she walks off.
And you're going out to check on the new house?
He watches her walk away then looks back into the hospital room. He enters.
I have to get going. JULIAN gives a nod.
May I take it?
Excuse me?
May I take it now?
Is it yours?
BEAT COP
Well, I'm sorry about that. Once the owner or an owner's representative files the claim form in Corona she's yours. again.
So you guys have done what you needed to?
And what was that?
And what was that?
I'm sorry?
You just said you've done what you needed to. so what was it that you've done?

Did you fingerprint or anything?
No need, these guys always wear So you've done nothing.
So you've done nothing.
I'm not exactly sure, I just got here at four. My shift is actually So who's coming? They stare at each other, then the truck. ABEL then climbs up and we see he knows his way around the truck. He goes up top and opens and looks into a valve, the tank is empty.
So who's coming? They stare at each other, then the truck. ABEL then climbs up and we see he knows his way around the truck. He goes up top and opens and looks into a valve, the tank is empty.
The cop gets in his car and prepares to drive away.
They stole the $6,000 of fuel that was in it. The cop leaves. ABEL is left standing on top of the truck in the parking lot alone with his battered truck. He looks down at the open loading valve and begins to come up with an idea. The sun is setting.
ANDREW WALSH
Lawrence. Thank you for seeing us on such short notice.
Of course. And Mr. Morales. Please sit. I didn't realize you were coming as well.
A.D.A. LAWRENCE So what can I do for you?
So what can I do for you?
We need your help.
In what way?
Our trucks. They are being robbed.
( he looks over at DEPUTY
ANDREW WALSH
We have a serious security issue.
There have been a series of hijackings of bulk-fuel delivery A.D.A. LAWRENCE Our drivers are being put in A.D.A. LAWRENCE Mr. Walsh, as I know you know, this office has been investigating your entire industry.
ANDREW WALSH
Our drivers are being put in A.D.A. LAWRENCE Mr. Walsh, as I know you know, this office has been investigating your entire industry.
Mr. Walsh, as I know you know, this office has been investigating your entire industry.
Of course. There is an awkward pause as LAWRENCE decides how he should A.D.A. LAWRENCE And as much as I'd like to be able to help you, you know this is a police issue. It's not what we do I understand. But this is turning into an urgent and pressing matter for us.
And as much as I'd like to be able to help you, you know this is a police issue. It's not what we do I understand. But this is turning into an urgent and pressing matter for us.
I understand. But this is turning into an urgent and pressing matter for us.
ANDREW WALSH
A.D.A. LAWRENCE I'm not sure what you mean. There were more murders and rapes in this city last year then there ever have been, so if you have come to tell me that we have a urgent security issue here, trust me I'm aware. ABEL cuts in. He can't help himself.
I'm not sure what you mean. There were more murders and rapes in this city last year then there ever have been, so if you have come to tell me that we have a urgent security issue here, trust me I'm aware. ABEL cuts in. He can't help himself.
My people are at risk just driving around in this city, just trying to do their jobs. And I. I have done everything you have asked of me. It's been two years since you first started investigating my company and I have spent thousands of dollars hiring lawyers for this and that to provide you with every piece of information your office has requested. And I expect that you have been asking the same from my competitors. So with all this information that you have gained. We are just asking if you have any idea who has been doing this to us?
I don't. This sits unanswered.
First, please know that we respect the work you are doing to try to help our business and the city. But also know I have never taken anything I haven't earned from anyone so when you say you've. He pulls himself back.
Well yes and no. See, all that I can do is to try and put people away in the simplest and most economical way possible with the limited resources at my disposal. It doesn't really matter to us who it is or how we do it as long as it's progress.
Well, it makes a difference to me.
I know it does. This city is a very difficult place to do business right now.
This more conciliatory tone makes LAWRENCE think through his next reply for a long beat.
You know. Mr. Morales you seem like a decent man, and because of that I'm really not comfortable just sitting here with you pretending that the elephant perched on the corner of my desk isn't there. LAWRENCE looks over at DEPUTY LANGE whose body language says `don't go down this road'. But he does.
I understand. ABEL stands up to leave and ANDREW is still a little stunned but stands.
I'm sure you will. They turn to leave. And LAWRENCE has one more thought.
I'm sorry?
I'm just looking here through these reports. It looks like out of the nineteen registered heating oil companies in the city your trucks have been getting hit three to one.
A.D.A. LAWRENCE So are you maybe doing something to bring this on yourself?
So are you maybe doing something to bring this on yourself?
Like what?
Like enter a new market?
I am always trying to expand my A.D.A. LAWRENCE Of course. But I think you understand what I'm saying. there are always some markets that are more difficult than others to Every new market is a difficult But my driver was assaulted and my truck and oil were stolen in broad daylight in front of fifteen toll collectors and six police officers yesterday. And yet no one saw anything. That is a problem. no?
Of course. But I think you understand what I'm saying. there are always some markets that are more difficult than others to Every new market is a difficult But my driver was assaulted and my truck and oil were stolen in broad daylight in front of fifteen toll collectors and six police officers yesterday. And yet no one saw anything. That is a problem. no?
Every new market is a difficult But my driver was assaulted and my truck and oil were stolen in broad daylight in front of fifteen toll collectors and six police officers yesterday. And yet no one saw anything. That is a problem. no?
I have a lot of problems coming across my desk every day Mr. I'm sure you do.
I'm sure you do.
Abel. Abel. He stops and turns.
ANDREW WALSH
No. let's not overreact. We don't even know what they are bringing against us. It could be total bullshit, and they are just trying to use us along the way. This isn't anything yet.
I know.
How'd it go?
The DA. He said he's going to bring down charges on us next week.
For what?
We don't know yet.
Who else?
Right now they are just saying us. Where are we exposed?
We follow standard industry practice on every front.
I need to know what they are saying we did. INT. HOSPITAL LONG HALLWAY - DAY ABEL walks down the long hallway and enters a room.
I need to know what they are saying we did. INT. HOSPITAL LONG HALLWAY - DAY ABEL walks down the long hallway and enters a room.
INT. HOSPITAL LONG HALLWAY - DAY ABEL walks down the long hallway and enters a room.
I'm very sorry this happened. Do you need anything else?  If you do, you call the office. Okay then. He turns to leave and walks back to the stairs.
ABEL turns and looks at him.
I don't.
I. I'm not sure I will be able.
You will. JULIAN changes the subject.
Did you get the truck back?
Yes. They took the load.
This is the sixth one?
Seventh. you get some rest.
Well, look who it is.
ARNOLD KLINE
Just a touch off the side Jimmy. Not all of us are as lucky as Mr. Morales here in terms of keeping our hair.
You're a good looking man.
I know I am. So I hear congratulations are in order?
What's that?
You got yourself in contract over We are working on it.
We are working on it.
Thirty day close I hear, you better We are, thanks for your concern.
We are, thanks for your concern.
I saw a couple of your trucks over in Rego Park the other day. This brings ABEL around to look at him square.
Really? When was that?
A couple times.
It's possible.
Is it?
ARNOLD KLINE
That's a tough market.
It is.
My father struggled for years before he broke in there.
Any new market is a tough one. I'll see you. ABEL walks out of the shop and looks around. It is now dark EXT. COUNTRY ROAD - NEXT MORNING ABEL is jogging again but this time he is deep in the woods. He runs along the road. We then hear a car coming from behind him. The car noise then turns into more of a truck noise. He stops and turns around as we see a large truck coming towards He gets himself over to the side of the road. We have a slight fear it might hit him. But as it passes we see it's a large moving truck. There's a second one following right behind it.
I know it has been a long road, and that not all of you wanted to do this, but thank you. For me.
A toast. All six raise a glass.
So you made the move? ABEL turns and sees PETER FORENTE standing there. He's in his mid-forties, very well-dressed, and handsomely bald.
Peter. it's official as of ABEL picks up his coffee, and they both walk back over to the sideline together. Although they are standing a bit off to the side from everyone else.
ABEL picks up his coffee, and they both walk back over to the sideline together. Although they are standing a bit off to the side from everyone else.
So I heard about your rig getting picked off again.
PETER FORENTE
We should probably get together to discuss this and go over some of the preventative measures that we've been taking. We haven't had an incident since November. It doesn't do any of us any good to have this kind of attention brought to us. They both stare out at the court for beat.
That's possible.
The driver looked like a member of the Hitler Youth. I haven't seen a teamster that blond and blue-eyed since I was a kid.
He's from Ohio. Played football. I like my drivers to fit in with the That's new territory for you, no? This brings them both back in to look at each other.
That's new territory for you, no? This brings them both back in to look at each other.
Just picked up a few new accounts over there. Weekend houses of some old clients from in the city. PETER gives a bit of a stronger look. Then finally turns back towards the field.
Which one is yours?
Right there. They look out.
She's beautiful.
Thank you.
Welcome to the neighborhood. You should be proud.
PETER FORENTE
INT. GARAGE OF THE NEW HOUSE - DAY The garage is filled with boxes. ABEL stands in the middle of a few that are partially unpacked. He has set up an old radio in the corner of the garage, and it is playing a New York Giants football game. ABEL takes an object out of one of the boxes and looks at it with significance. Coming from the main house we hear the doorbell ring. ABEL'S oldest daughter, ANNIE, comes to the door of the garage.
Dad. Mr. Walsh is here. ABEL looks around behind ANNIE to see ANDREW standing there. He waves him into the garage. The boxes are stacked almost to the ceiling around them.
I'm sorry for the dramatic drop in but your phone doesn't seem to be It's not set up yet. So I am guessing this isn't good news here on a Sunday night.
It's not set up yet. So I am guessing this isn't good news here on a Sunday night.
No. It looks like they are coming after us.
That describes many people at this Slight smile.
The D.A.
How bad?
I still haven't seen it yet. But my guy in his office just gave me a heads up an hour ago. It's not Where are we exposed?
Where are we exposed?
I'm not sure, a couple places A couple places? This hits ABEL. He thinks for a beat than goes over to the door to the house and calls for his wife.
A couple places? This hits ABEL. He thinks for a beat than goes over to the door to the house and calls for his wife.
ANDREW WALSH
Anna. sorry you've got no phone.
As of tomorrow I'll have my new radio hooked up though so you should be able to reach me wherever I am. He is making light of the situation, but as she looks at their faces she knows there is a problem.
The D.A. is going to bring down charges on us tomorrow.
For what?
We don't know yet.
Who else?
Right now they are just saying us.
Where are we exposed? ABEL looks at his wife. She looks at ANDREW.
We follow standard industry practice on every front. They all give each other a long look, as this means they have been bending the rules in several places, as do all their What does that mean?
What does that mean?
You know what that means.
It means we may have some accounting exposure where we have pushed things a little too far.
How far?
You always told us to push until we couldn't push any further. Well, we may have hit that line. So we will handle it and move on.
ABEL shoots her a stinging worried glance.
I need to know what they are saying we did.
Let's not get ahead of ourselves here. You have always followed standard industry practices. We aren't even sure what this is yet. I just wanted to make sure you had all the information I do. This is a badge of honor, it means we are big enough to give a shit about now. Don't worry. That sits for a beat.
Thank you for coming by Andrew. ABEL reaches into his pocket and takes out a remote for the automatic garage door opener. As it opens you can see the pride in his face as this remote is a fairly high-tech new item. They all sit and watch as it opens the whole way then stops in silence. ANDREW is now standing outside in the driveway.
Thank you for coming by Andrew. ABEL reaches into his pocket and takes out a remote for the automatic garage door opener. As it opens you can see the pride in his face as this remote is a fairly high-tech new item. They all sit and watch as it opens the whole way then stops in silence. ANDREW is now standing outside in the driveway.
Very impressive.
Thank you.
It only cost him a year of the kid's tuition.
And one more thing. I got a call from the union. O'Leary. This grabs both their attention.
What word?
There is real concern about their All of them.
All of them.
All of them.
The drivers are feeling Because they are.
Because they are.
I just think you should talk to them about it. Before it grows into Good night.
ANDREW WALSH
Good night.
What's he doing?
Quiet. don't worry. It's nothing. ANNA tries to go back to sleep.
Quiet. It's nothing. Come down He snaps his fingers and calls the dog. The dog finally comes down the stairs. ABEL now heads towards the kitchen in a relaxed state, but then the dog starts growling again and looking out the windows next to the front door. ABEL comes over, he opens the front door but the dog refuses to go out.
Where were you?
A lot of help you were.
They both look down at his bare feet. He has been in some kind of shock and hasn't even noticed that his bare feet are cut up to pieces from running in the woods through the ice. His feet are bleeding all over the walkway.
Who was it?
What do you mean, how am I supposed to know who it was? She gives him a look.
If you.
Ouch! If they had wanted to send a message he could have. and he Seems like a message was sent loud and clear.
Seems like a message was sent loud and clear.
Please. Don't get going on this. We are a big new house. He probably wanted the TV. He didn't have a gun, he had nothing. The alarm will be in on Monday. It was some kid. They aren't coming back. She looks at him with considerable concern. He leans in and starts kissing her. She holds still at first then gives in.
What you are looking for here is the opening to the burn chamber. Now at this point you have not tipped your hat in anyway. From the minute you walked in the house you should have been working to create an impression of total impartiality. But now. He reaches over and opens the small door. A fire is burning inside. On cue the instructor hands ABEL a crisp clean white When this door opens you begin to close. It must always be spotless. If they see you have ever done this before it is over. He takes it and reaches up into a small exhaust chimney.
Do you hear that noise. that's the noise.
It means you are close. Then after sitting in silence way longer than is comfortable, you turn. And say "I'd love to run a few numbers for you. Is there somewhere more comfortable we could sit." They will almost always take you to the dining room table and will offer you something. And whatever it is you always take the fancy option.
Can I get you a coffee or tea?
A tea please.
We have some homemade lemonade or a I'd love a lemonade, thank you.
I'd love a lemonade, thank you.
Because, we are never going to be the cheapest option, so we have to be the best. And they want. no, need. to feel that you want the best too. That's why our trucks are the newest or cleanest, and our drivers are approachable. Just then the woman who works behind the front desk  comes to the door.
I gotta go, but the final point I will make is the hardest one. Once you have done the math and shown them what we can save them over the long haul through proper maintenance, you need them to sign. And the problem is by hiring you that means they are firing someone else. And that's never easy. So to get them over the line you need to close them. So when you show them the number look up at them both. and just stare at them. ABEL begins staring at the recruits. He continues to stare.
Good morning. First off, I picked up Julian yesterday and he is back home and doing much better. And I just wanted to make sure you are all aware that we are doing everything we can to deal with this situation. We are working with law enforcement, and they seem to be closing in on these guys. But, sadly these are the times we are living in and we must rise above them. So, on that front we have He puts one of the new radios on the dais. ANDREW comes into the room behind ABEL and stands.
Yes, Eddy.
We have been in constant contact with the union and they aren't considering any new course of action at this time.
EXT. ABEL AND ANNA'S HOUSE - DAY ANNA is walking back from the mailbox looking through the day's mail. As she approaches the house she looks up and sees the two younger daughters, ELIZABETH  and CATHERINE , playing in front of the house. CATHERINE comes out from under a bush near the side door with something in her hand. ANNA looks back down at the mail. As she gets closer to the house we see a look of concern come across her face. The look then turns to one of complete horror but as she gets closer to CATHERINE she tries to control her emotions.
Catherine. Catherine. Katie! She drops the mail. And goes right up to her daughter.
As ANNA comes up to CATHERINE we now see that the little girl is holding a large very real looking handgun in her little hands. ANNA is besides herself.
Where did you get this? Catherine where did you find this?
Right here. The little girl points over towards the bushes near the side door where LOUIS SERVIDIO was hiding and got hit the night Show me. The little girl walks over to bushes and kneels down.
Show me. The little girl walks over to bushes and kneels down.
It was just sitting right here. ANNA turns to the middle daughter, ELIZABETH.
Did you see this?
Yeah, she went under there to get that ball and came out with it.
ANNA yells towards in the house.
What is it? ANNA walks towards the front door to retrieve the NANNY
Mom, is it real?
Mom, is it real?
What is that?
A gun. It's a gun Abel.
Where did you get it?
Your youngest daughter found it in the bushes outside our front door. She was playing with it. ABEL is totally speechless.
Let me see that. I'll take care of Damn right we will. Who is this?
Damn right we will. Who is this?
I don't know, but I will take care of it.
What does that mean you will take care of it. This isn't a brick through our car window or some other cute little warning that I've put up with in the past. This is your daughter playing with a loaded He turns back quickly. And stares at her.

You better. Because you won't like what's going to happen once I start getting involved. This causes him to stop in his tracks. He turns very You are not to tell your father about this. She looks back at him with a tinge of a smile.
You are not to tell your father about this. She looks back at him with a tinge of a smile.
.I won't. ANDREW comes to the door and knocks.
Can I talk with you both?
I found a gun outside our front door. Somebody left it there last I don't know. ANNA looks over to ANDREW letting him know her disgust.
I don't know. ANNA looks over to ANDREW letting him know her disgust.
I don't know. ANNA looks over to ANDREW letting him know her disgust.
He looks around then closes the door behind him and gets their attention.
That truck just went out filthy. ABEL looks out the window as a truck leaves the yard.
ANDREW WALSH
We are going to owe them some This brings him back.
How much?
That depends on a bunch of factors. But that's an accounting question. They both look to ANNA
You need to get home and start going through our set of books. How far back are they going?
Seems like all the way back to when you bought out Anna's father.
I'll get into it.
What is O'Leary doing here?. Abel looks to ANDREW.
He's been wanting to talk to you for days.
ABEL gets up to go out. As ANDREW shuffles to leave ANNA
Andrew can I talk to you for a ABEL leaves and they stay.
How are you Bill?
I'm ok. Can't say I'm used to making house calls like this anymore though.
I would have come to see you.
That's alright. You've got bigger things to worry about.  So, I can't have this situation with your guys continuing.
My guys.
Your drivers.
Good. I would love you to help on this. Because I can't have it going on any longer either.
So let them protect themselves, that would stop all this very I respectfully disagree.
I respectfully disagree.
They are picking on your men because they are just sitting there. weak.
They are taking shots at me because I am growing, expanding, getting stronger not weaker. This frustrates Bill because he knows ABEL is right. He tries a new tack.
It's quite simple for meWell, it appears that you can't. This is a little too sharp for the head of the NYC teamster's I can. And will. Because of all my job descriptions that is the one I consider most sacred.
I can. And will. Because of all my job descriptions that is the one I consider most sacred.
I agree. But these are truck drivers, not soldiers, this will lead to chaos.
It will stop immediately.
No, it won't.
You seem to be under pressure from many sides right now. which I understand. Trust me I understand. So let me think this through. But whatever decision I make on this, it stands. Those men show up every morning for you because I tell them to. It's important for you to realize that these are very dangerous times, and we need to adapt. It's not like when we were Sometimes the weak man is the stronger man if he has the right It may seem that way. but if you are weak eventually it will show. it always does. And if you want this to all be behind us, help me find out who is doing this. You know a lot of people, and that would be the most help to me.
BILL O'LEARY
Sometimes the weak man is the stronger man if he has the right It may seem that way. but if you are weak eventually it will show. it always does. And if you want this to all be behind us, help me find out who is doing this. You know a lot of people, and that would be the most help to me.
It may seem that way. but if you are weak eventually it will show. it always does. And if you want this to all be behind us, help me find out who is doing this. You know a lot of people, and that would be the most help to me.
It's not always as simple as it I'm sure that's true.
I'm sure that's true.
It is. well, I got to get going.
Thank you for coming Bill.
How did that go?
Not well.
He feels very strongly about this.
I can see that.
I don't think he fully understands What's to understand?
What's to understand?
It's illegal.
It's not illegal if I say it isn't. My responsibility is to provide safe and timely passage of goods and products into and around this city. And because of this situation it is appearing to those whose opinions I care about that I can't do my job. That can not and will not continue.
I understand.
So talk to him. You need to protect yourself. This is very serious. Just know that. ANDREW thinks this through.
How would this work?
What does that mean?
I guess I'm not even sure exactly what you are suggesting.
Are you kidding me with this?
BILL O'LEARY ANDREW WALSH
Every driver in your fleet gets a And a permit? O'LEARY nods yes.
And a permit? O'LEARY nods yes.
By Friday.
Are the permits legit?
That depends what they do with it. If they kill their wife with them, then no. Then that is a very fake permit, and I'll walk away very quickly. But they just need to show that they are defending themselves, and this will stop.
Who is it?
I don't fucking know.
I'll talk to him.
He's not here. Her face fills with building anger as she hears.
How did that go?
Not well.
He feels very strongly about this.
I can see that.
I don't think he fully understands What's to understand?
What's to understand?
It's illegal.
It's not illegal if I say it isn't. This takes ANDREW back a step.
I understand.
So talk to him. You need to protect yourself. As a company.
I will try to talk with him.
This is very serious. Just know ANDREW WALSH thinks this through.
How would this work?
What does that mean?
I guess I'm not even sure exactly what you are suggesting.
Are you kidding me with this?
BILL O'LEARY ANDREW WALSH
Every driver in your fleet gets a And a permit? O'LEARY nods yes.
And a permit? O'LEARY nods yes.
By Friday.
Are the permits legit?
That depends what they do with it. If they kill their wife with them, then no. Then that is a very fake permit, and I'll walk away very quickly. But they just need to show that they are defending themselves, and this will stop.
Who is it?
I don't fucking know.
They just got another truck.
I know.
Who was driving?
ANDREW WALSH
Is he alright?
ANDREW WALSH
The drivers' security aside. this shit is starting to have a very significant financial effect on us here. It can't continue.
I know.
How was your talk?  I spoke with him after. He's going to keep going `til he gets the answer he's looking for.
I said I wouldn't do it. They sit for a long beat.
I'm not sure we are in a position to say that.
What's that? ANDREW looks around. He's getting paranoid.
Do you want to go for a walk?
Are you really serious with this, this is what it's come to, walking around outside like fucking I am and it is.
I am and it is.
It is looking like we must do this.
I must? This gets a little personal.
They will shut you down.
These men, they work for me. These trucks they drive, the customers they serve. They are here because we built this.
That's true, until its not. And the last person in the world right now that we need working against us is the president of the fucking teamsters. This company is out of business in a month if he gets these guys to walk. We are running out of cash.
What are you even talking about The union provides a handgun and a permit to every one of the drivers. And they think this whole thing is over in a week.
The union provides a handgun and a permit to every one of the drivers. And they think this whole thing is over in a week.
These men are fucking truck drivers. This is insane. You know who is gonna get it in the end here, me. This comes back to me.
It does either way.
I'm not doing it.
Would you put everything at risk to stand by that. ABEL thinks this through.
It will be the end of everything I have worked for. If one of these guys shoots somebody it's me they will bring down for it.I'll talk to him. And we need to close this deal. We can't stay like this any longer. We must close on that property. We are so weak right They are now standing on top of one of the trucks tanks as a worker pours the additive into the tank. The container says "GREEN DYE #7" on it. ABEL looks down as it flows in. He stands up and looks out across the fence at the container Why do you want this so badly?
Why do you want this so badly?
Because I have my entire savings at risk with this deposit. It is That's not what I mean. Why did you want it so badly in the first place? It was a risk. always. ABEL thinks this through.
That's not what I mean. Why did you want it so badly in the first place? It was a risk. always. ABEL thinks this through.
I don't know.
You don't know? Have you ever thought about it?
I've thought about it every day for the last five years. This place was sitting over that fence mocking..
I didn't mean have you ever thought about that place.
I don't know what you mean. ABEL looks to him in a sincere way wanting him to answer but ANDREW just waits. Finally.
That's very simple.
With this he gives him a deadly serious look.
You take these risks.
Only when necessary.
We have to get going, we need them to show up.
ARTHUR LEWIS
Anna, you look amazing as always.
Thank you.
Gentlemen. Do you know Ian Thompson? One of our new VP's.
They all shake hands and sit. The WAITER comes over.
So what can I get you to drink?
A lot. Awkward laughter.
I'll be right back.
So how are you?
We've been better. but we are Yes I heard about that. if you stay in business long enough it's bound to happen eventually.
Yes I heard about that. if you stay in business long enough it's bound to happen eventually.
Well that's exactly right. And we wanted to sit down with you tonight to make sure we were being totally up-front with everything that is going on and make sure that you understand the nature of the complaints and are comfortable that it is not going to affect our business in an adverse way.
Did you have a chance to look over the outline that I sent over?
Yes, we did.
Hopefully it made clear that even in a worst case situation we will pay off any and all fines and be able to move forward with very comfortable capital on hand. ABEL jumps in taking some offense.
But you should know Arthur that this man has been digging through our industry for over two years looking for anything he can find. And as you know probably better than anyone, having worked with some of our competitors the thought that he would have singled us out is ridiculous. It reeks of everything that is wrong with this city right now. We run a fair and clean business and follow every standard industry practice and I will fight `til my last day to prove that. This silences the table for a long beat.
That's a very good question. This property gives us many things. firstly direct access to the river. So I can bring in fuel directly from any provider in the world straight to my tanks, then it has over 10 million gallons of storage capacity, so I can buy in the summers when my price is low and sell to my customers and most importantly some of my competitors when the price is high. I won't just drive trucks anymore. I will control my fate. but the real answer to your question. Now ABEL stares right at IAN THOMPSON.
We've always been there with you and know that we will continue to INT. ABEL'S CAR - NIGHT ABEL is driving, and ANNA sits in silence looking out the passenger window. They are heading along the main backwoods road to their house.
Well, that went about as well as could be expected.
Yes. Arthur is a good man.
Do you think they will close?
Of course.
Yes. you need to go put it out of its misery.
I mean it. We can't just leave it EXT. BACKWOODS ROAD - NIGHT ABEL gets out of the car and looks at his smashed hood. He then walks back and approaches the animal. It is laying on the side of the road. He comes right up to it and stares into its eyes. It stares back at him. ABEL walks back to the car.
I mean it. We can't just leave it EXT. BACKWOODS ROAD - NIGHT ABEL gets out of the car and looks at his smashed hood. He then walks back and approaches the animal. It is laying on the side of the road. He comes right up to it and stares into its eyes. It stares back at him. ABEL walks back to the car.
Is it dead?
Well you need.
Well you need.
I know. He reaches down to open the trunk.
What are you doing?
Getting the tire iron! This whole situation has stressed them out and they are on ABEL goes to the trunk and gets out the large wrench. He walks back over to the deer. He bends down next to it and stares into its eye again. ABEL is thinking back on something, or many things. He makes a small starting movement like he is going to hit it over the head but he stops himself. He can't quite do it. Then he sits with the animal a beat longer. We come in very close to ABEL and see his hand is struggling to deliver the blow. Just as he grips the tire iron waiting. BANG! BANG! Two very loud GUNSHOTS go off from right over his shoulder. He ducks for cover then slowly turns behind him. ANNA stands there holding a small-yet-powerful Saturday Night Special- style handgun. Smoke is still rising from the end of the pistol. The deer is dead. He looks at her dumbfounded. where did she get this gun? She gives him a look. Then turns and walks back to the car. He stays and struggles to get the deer out of the road.
Hello Maria, sorry we are a bit late. They were fine?
Oh yes. All is good.
Great, thank you. We'll see you in the morning then.
NANNY MARIA comes around the corner and passes ABEL who is just standing in the living room. He only gives her a nod. ANNA is standing on the other side of the room just waiting in silence as well. NANNY MARIA goes over to the closet and gets her coat out and puts it on. The tension is building like a kettle. Finally NANNY MARIA gets herself together and walks out and as the door shuts they come immediately at each
Yes. what?
Yes. what?
Yes. what?
Are you kidding?
Okay then. what is this gun?
Okay then. what is this gun?
I told you I wasn't going to just continue to stand around and let these people come and get me and my children. So unlike you who seems to be totally comfortable just standing around like some. fucking pussy. I did something about it. ABEL is slightly stammering at this point, not quite sure what to do. They are still standing on opposite sides of the room from each other. He just waits. finally.
Where did you get it?
You know where I got it.
Do you have a permit?
Not yet. This sets him off. He comes walking across the room at her as if he might hit her. He gets closer and closer.
You must be a bigger fucking idiot than I even thought. You are trying to protect your children? Protect them? Do you have any idea what happens if you get caught using that thing? He is now standing right over her.
You've given me? You? Are you delusional? Do you even understand how ridiculous that makes you They are really going at it now. He tries to grab her purse, which she still has over her shoulder. They struggle for it.
Where is this thing? Let me see it.
Let me see it. Is this going to make you safe? With that he uses brute force, probably hurting her arm, but she doesn't let on. He takes the purse from her. He opens it and takes out the small gun.
Let me see it. Is this going to make you safe? With that he uses brute force, probably hurting her arm, but she doesn't let on. He takes the purse from her. He opens it and takes out the small gun.
You need to protect us.
That is what I'm doing. He walks out the front door.
Happy Birthday! Just as ELIZABETH blows out the candles the doorbell rings. NANNY MARIA heads to the front door. The camera stays with the party. NANNY MARIA comes back into the room and standing behind her, we see a POLICE OFFICER holding some kind of ABEL walks over quickly trying not to create a scene. He leads the POLICE OFFICER back over to the front door. The PARENTS certainly notice and start stirring.
I understand. But as you can see this is a terrible time for us. I am having my daughter's birthday ABEL is trying to remain calm and not lose his temper.
I understand and I apologize, I do. But this is a warrant and we need to gain complete access to the They stare at each other just as ANNA comes to the door. She sees the scene in her driveway.
What is this?
Let me go check something.
Are they serious? ABEL is seething and can only manage a slight nod. As they look across the driveway they see the OFFICER talking to someone. The officer shifts out of the way and they see he is talking to ASSISTANT D.A. LAWRENCE.
I'm going to kill this guy.
ANNA is trying to get his attention quietly.
He turns and they look at each other. She signals towards the library and they share a knowing, concerned glance.
Mr. Lawrence is it?
Anna Morales. She reaches out her hand to shake his with a smile.
Anna Morales. She reaches out her hand to shake his with a smile.
They walk away from the others down the driveway a stretch.
I understand you and your men have a job to do here. But we are in the middle of a seven-year-old's birthday party.
I understand, and I'm sorry. But we are coming in. She turns a little on him.
That's not a problem, as we have nothing to hide from you. It's just that, we recently moved to this area, and there are twenty guests in our house. please. can you give me five minutes so we can ask everyone to leave calmly before you come into my home? He thinks this through.
You can get them out of the house.
Thank you.
Where are you going?
Bring the last few out.
You've got three minutes.
What's going on out there.
Our guests are leaving. ABEL tries to speak but can only shake his head. Finally he jumps over the edge and she starts handing boxes down to him. He then stops again.
Do we even need to be doing this? What exactly are we hiding here? She thinks this through.
I don't want them going through all this before I've had a chance to.
Is that the last one. Get back out ABEL looks around for a place to stash them.
Thank you for coming. Here you go. Bye, Rebecca. Thanks. I'm sorry. When the last one goes she looks up at the ASST. DA to give him the all-clear. But as she does she gives him a look that could kill. The police file into the house in front of her.
This is probably one that you are going to regret. LAWRENCE looks at her trying to figure her out.
Excuse me?
My husband is a very honorable man. Coming on a Saturday? It's very A.D.A. LAWRENCE This is standard.
This is standard.
Really? I know you think you are just doing your job. But we are not what you think we are. And you have embarrassed him in front of his family and friends. She gives him a long, almost scary look.
I think I know your father.
Good for you. My husband is not my father. Not even close. So if I were you I would start treating us with a little more respect or he'll make it our only mission to ruin you. This was very disrespectful. and you are not going to find a fucking thing. With that she walks back towards the house as the POLICE start filing out.
Hey, how are you?
You'll do great. Remember. When you get them there. Hold the eye contact longer than you would like. but you watch what happens. He gives him a big smile and a pat on the back and sends him on his way.
It is good to see you back here. You look good.
Thank you. JULIAN is very quiet and timid. He is missing a spark.
Are you ready to get back to work?
I think so.
You are.
Thank you.
Where are you heading?
Bulk delivery to Chase.
Manhattan. That's a cakewalk. JULIAN does not agree. ABEL can no longer ignore his young protege's concern.
I feel very vulnerable. ABEL jumps on this.
Good. Because you are. We all are. Someone came to my house a couple nights ago to rob me. A large truck rumbles by and they wait for silence to return.
Of course, come in.
Oh good, it's my husband.
Here he is. The SALES KID stands up to shake his hand.
SALES STUDENT ALEX I was just showing your wife the results of my inspection. Should we head upstairs to run through some Sure. I just had one question about our exhaust chimney. Would you be willing to take a look.
Sure. I just had one question about our exhaust chimney. Would you be willing to take a look.
It's just outside on the other side of this wall here.
I'm going to head up. Can I get you something to drink? Coffee. tea?
I/E. DOORWAY OZONE PARK BASEMENT - DAY As the SALES KID goes through the door a massive fist of SOMEONE who has been waiting on the other side of the door comes swinging into frame and pounds the side of our KID'S head. Knocking him out instantly.
Cathy! They are coming again. Over. Help. Help. On Bridge. He then fumbles the CB and it drops to the floor of the cab. He looks up into the mirrors again and sees that they are still coming for him. The camera now comes in tight on his face and he pauses for a long second, and he then makes his decision. He reaches under his seat and takes out a handgun. He doesn't really seem to know what he is doing with it. But he opens the door of the truck and gets out. He aims the gun at LOUIS SERVIDIO walking towards him. LOUIS SERVIDIO sees him and is very surprised and stops.
Whoa, whoa, whoa! Take it easy He glances over at THUG #2.
Get the fuck away from me!
Okay, man. People in the cars behind the truck are starting to honk. Then LOUIS SERVIDIO gives a nod signal to THUG #2 who is on the other side of the truck, and JULIAN'S gun fires by mistake. It totally misses THUG #2. He jumps out of the way and is hiding behind the wheel.
Over here.
Where is he?
Over here. JULIAN is just trying to decide what to do next. The sirens are now getting much closer.
Get the car! THUG #2 takes off. This now leaves JULIAN and LOUIS SERVIDIO all alone with the police coming. As JULIAN is hiding, trying to figure out what to do next, LOUIS SERVIDIO goes running by him. As he doesOh, there he is. Had to be the hero Fuck you.
Fuck you.
Couldn't just let us take the Fuck you! JULIAN is screaming in a fit of panic at this point.
Fuck you! JULIAN is screaming in a fit of panic at this point.
Hey man relax. calm down. Did they see you come in here? JULIAN can't stop breathing very heavy at this point.
I don't think so.
Did they or not? He thinks.
LOUIS SERVIDIO
Alright, there's a door down here about four more flights. Don't go out there, that's the street. Go down about two more flights after that and you'll come out below the bridge. They won't be there.
Fuck you!
You're welcome. Then LOUIS SERVIDIO's head disappears and we can hear his feet flying down the steps again. JULIAN thinks for a beat, then he starts off down the stairs again as well. The camera stays right where it was as JULIAN heads down out of sight. We just hear the sounds of his feet getting lower and lower.
It's a pretty cool machine, isn't ABEL nods.
This causes PETER to look up and see the serious look on ABEL's face. He hits one last shot and walks a little closer to ABEL. The machine is still hitting balls behind PETER.
I need to speak with you.
I need to speak with you.
I see that. PETER walks over to the machine and unplugs it. He points over towards the chairs courtside. He and ABEL sit down.
This has gotten out of control. There was a guy with a gun at my ABEL lets this sit for a minute, and he is intently reading PETER's face. He hopes not, but he is judging to see if PETER had anything to do with all these attacks. PETER just looks back at him with a very strong poker face.
Is everyone okay?
Yes. I managed to chase him off.
Well, I'm sorry, that must have been scary. what can I do.
I need to know who is doing this.
It's one thing to come after my trucks and drivers. and to steal from me. but this. it's Have you ever dealt with anything like this?
It's one thing to come after my trucks and drivers. and to steal from me. but this. it's Have you ever dealt with anything like this?
Have you ever dealt with anything like this?
Have you ever dealt with anything like this?
Have you met my father? They both smile. His father is an old-school gangster.
I refuse to live my life that way. I won't do it. I am going to ask for a meeting. They both look out and think it through a bit.
Anyone with more than 20k of storage. Can I count on you being PETER looks away for a long beat.
Anyone with more than 20k of storage. Can I count on you being PETER looks away for a long beat.
Yes. When are you closing on the Hold that. it's not done yet. you may be hearing from me. 
PETER FORENTE
Hold that. it's not done yet. you may be hearing from me. 
Hold that. it's not done yet. you may be hearing from me. 
Well, good luck. ABEL stands up ready to go.
Thank you for seeing me. I want more than this.
I know you do. My father is in jail. as you know. And I have always wanted to conduct myself differently than he did.
And you have.
Almost exclusively, yes. But I know why he did what he did. Because at the time it's easier.
But it's not.
Yes it is. You are a good man. I will see what I can find out. This isn't good for any of us.
Thank you.
Joanne it's me. What are you talking about. what shots? The camera now comes around to the outside of the car looking back at ABEL through the windshield. The mansion is looming in the background. We see ABEL'S face react as he hears the news of the incident on the bridge. The camera pulls back as ABEL'S face goes totally cold.
I heard.
I need to make sure you know that we had nothing to do with this. It's not the way I do business. In fact I have been warning my men against doing this sort of thing. It is terrible for me.
It's not good. for either of us.
A.D.A. LAWRENCE In my job we use whatever leverage we can gain, as I'm sure you do in your business. It's an ongoing investigation, and it will be just one piece of many. So while I appreciate you coming here. I have nothing I can tell you. LAWRENCE looks around the room thinking while ABEL says nothing, just waiting.
In my job we use whatever leverage we can gain, as I'm sure you do in your business. It's an ongoing investigation, and it will be just one piece of many. So while I appreciate you coming here. I have nothing I can tell you. LAWRENCE looks around the room thinking while ABEL says nothing, just waiting.
No. but I'll find him.
You should. And when you do, bring him to us. A situation like this, happening in such a dangerous and public way, within an industry I'm charged with cleaning up. It's very bad for me. professionally They look at each other one last time. ABEL gets the message.
ARTHUR LEWIS
ARTHUR LEWIS
I wanted to come and talk to you in person. We aren't going to be able to show up for you on Monday. We can't do the loan.
ARTHUR LEWIS
I wanted to let you know as soon as possible so that you could try to put something else together.
Thank you for coming. This is not I know.
I know.
What can I do?
Nothing. The loan review committee met this afternoon and won't meet again for two weeks.
And you are aware of the position this is putting me in?
I am.
I paid off my first loan to you eleven years ago.
I know.
Do you remember the term on that I don't.
I don't.
I had seven years to pay you back. They both nod knowing what's coming next.
Seven months?
Six and a half.
I'm sorry.
I put 40 percent down as a deposit on this. It's all we had.
You now have three separate serious pending legal cases against you. One with sixteen counts of misconduct ranging from fraud to tax evasion. And then in the middle of our meeting today I get a report saying you had armed your entire fleet of drivers which led to a shoot-out on the 59th Street None of it is true.
None of it is true.
That may be.
They look at each other.
It doesn't matter.
It does matter, that you know we didn't do this.
I do. I do. But it doesn't matter, I can't do anything. I'm ABEL's demeanor shifts.
I'll find it.
I know you will. The banker gets into his car and backs out. The gate opens and he drives out. Just as it is about to close it starts opening again. SALES STUDENT ALEX drives in with his car trashed. He pulls up and gets out of the car looking at ABEL. He knows what has happened and is crushed. Neither of them say a word, finally ABEL gives the kid a cautious but meaningful hug around the shoulder and leads him inside.
It's horrible.
Where is he?
Where is he?
We're looking for him.
And they haven't gotten the other Of course not.
Of course not.
Are you okay?
No. I'm not. They're out. This gets her attention.
The bank. With that ABEL walks out of the room and heads up the stairs to his bedroom. When he's halfway up the stairs she stops So what does that mean?
The bank. With that ABEL walks out of the room and heads up the stairs to his bedroom. When he's halfway up the stairs she stops So what does that mean?
So what does that mean?
It means we need to find the money somewhere else.
We have two days!
I'll figure it out.
You move.
You move.
You move.
Stop. I've told you guys not to push it this morning, this is not the morning to be doing this. but since the second you all woke up. It's this, it's that. Just stop. The world does not revolve around This shuts them up for a beat. ABEL is seething. But then ELIZABETH  nudges ANNIE  so she gives CATHERINE  a good hit. ANNA sees it and freaks.
You are thirteen years old. What are you doing? Your mother asks you an hour ago to help her get out of the house smoothly and you are acting like an.
Oh fuck you!
What? What? What are you talking ABEL is looking around for someone to help him and witness this. He then switches, he has had enough and gets right up in her face.
The world revolves around me? Me! What about her? And what about you? You're both so totally obsessed with your stupid business. You walk around like you are saving the world but what are you doing. This stings. He now changes his tone to a quiet low roar. But he can't keep quiet and by the end of the line he is yelling First off I don't walk around like I am saving anything. I chose this business because I looked at the world and said `What's the last bill people stop paying every month when they are low on cash?' `Cause that's a business I want to be in. `Cause failure wasn't much of an option for me. I lived in reality. not whatever this world is you are living in. And we help people stay warm. which isn't all that bad.  Maybe you've got grander ambitions but for now this is how you eat, sleep, and get all dressed up. So you better shape the fuck up and NEVER speak to me like this again!
First off I don't walk around like I am saving anything. I chose this business because I looked at the world and said `What's the last bill people stop paying every month when they are low on cash?' `Cause that's a business I want to be in. `Cause failure wasn't much of an option for me. I lived in reality. not whatever this world is you are living in. And we help people stay warm. which isn't all that bad.  Maybe you've got grander ambitions but for now this is how you eat, sleep, and get all dressed up. So you better shape the fuck up and NEVER speak to me like this again!
They both look over and ANNA is standing there. A calmness suddenly falls down on all of them.
She looks up with a small but sweet smile.
How's it coming?
How's it coming?
I've made it to 1975.
That was a good year. ANNA gives a slight look that the numbers may not totally support that claim.
I'm not sure yet. but it's not as bad as they are saying it is. Turns out I kinda knew what I was They give each other a slight smile.
I got us a three more days. and one piece. from Saul. But we're still about a million short. They look at each other with concern.
You're going to see your little First thing.
First thing.
And Peter?
As they look at each other ABEL
This is all worth it. He pauses just long enough to think.
Of course. A sense of caring and resolve comes over them. At least now they know what needs to be done.
I'll be up.
I love you.
I love you too. ABEL turns to go upstairs as ANNA starts in again with the INT. HALLWAY, OUTSIDE OF JULIAN'S APARTMENT - DAY ANDREW stands in the hallway about to knock, but he waits for a beat. He knocks. The door opens to a young woman, presumably JULIAN'S wife,
Is Julian here?
ANDREW WALSH
Abel would like to speak with him. To help him.
I will tell him. JULIAN steps into the frame from behind her.
He's turning me in? ANDREW looks at him without much remorse.
Of course we are turning you in. You have put everything that man has worked for for the last 20 years at risk. If it was up to me we would be dealing with this in a very different way.
But I know things. This causes ANDREW to turn quickly back to him with as sharp a look as he has.
ANDREW WALSH
ANDREW WALSH
And what things do you know? JULIAN looks back at him.
I'm sorry.
I am too. ANDREW now changes his tone.
I don't know.
Where's the gun? JULIAN stutters for a moment, then.
I threw it in the river.
Good. Your background check with us says you have never been arrested, is that true?
Why is this putting everything at Have you ever been arrested?
Have you ever been arrested?
ANDREW WALSH
Because no bank will touch us right now. So we can't close on the new property. And he's going to lose everything on his deposit. This sits heavily on JULIAN. ANDREW hands him a card.
I'm sorry.
I know.
I was scared.
I know.
Aren't you scared?
What do you do? ABEL thinks this through long and hard.
What do you do? ABEL thinks this through long and hard.
I have always been much more scared of failure than anything else.
It wasn't always like this.
It wasn't always like this.
Are you ruined?
Not today. but by the end of the week. maybe.
I'm sorry.
No. I am not strong.
No. I am not strong.
That does not have to be true.
Trust me. I am not. I'm sorry. With that JULIAN walks across the parking lot towards the POLICE to turn himself in. ANDREW walks up behind ABEL and stands there looking.
I'm late. I will meet you at four.
I'm gonna try to get us a little more time. The three COPS are standing waiting as JULIAN walks towards them. ABEL turns around, facing the camera, and closes his eyes in sadness. With ABEL in the foreground we see JULIAN make it halfway to the COPS, then he stops.
ABEL'S face tells us he knows what is coming. JULIAN sets off running. Before the COPS can get close to him he is off. ABEL turns and sees what is happening. He does not follow chase. His head just drops.
Thank you for seeing me.
Of course.
I need more time.
Of course you do.
I know our agreement doesn't allow for that. But. I need more time.
This takes ABEL back a bit.
Thank you for asking. Many, many It's a difficult time to do Yes. it is.
It's a difficult time to do Yes. it is.
Yes. it is.
I'll give you three more days. Then it's over.
Thank you.
So. I should start by thanking you for your assistance in. in attempting to bring in your driver?
We didn't think he'd react that A.D.A. LAWRENCE Yes. Well, the officers there didn't set it up very well on their end either.
Yes. Well, the officers there didn't set it up very well on their end either.
I'm sorry.
We are looking for him.
So are we. it's very sad. He was very close to Abel.
I understand. Well. Ms. Lange.
It has been brought to our attention that it might be beneficial on your end to resolve this issue in a time sensitive way.
DEPUTY LANGE
So we have prepared an offer for you to review. They slide the offer across the table. ANDREW opens it and gives it a once over.
I'll show this to them. He'll never go for it, but it's a start.
This could get a lot worse for you I know. I will present it to him. ANDREW gets up and prepares to leave. LAWRENCE stands with him and walks him out into the hallway.
I know. I will present it to him. ANDREW gets up and prepares to leave. LAWRENCE stands with him and walks him out into the hallway.
And Andrew, one other thing. He turns. They are now alone in the hallway.
I need this to stop.
You need what to stop?
This fucking bullshit with the open warfare. I won't put up with it. It's starting to be a real problem.
Starting to be? No shit.
Not for you. but for me. This lingers for a beat as the meaning sinks in.
I understand. The kid went out and got his own gun. This was not us. No matter what you think of him, Abel doesn't work this way.
I really could give a fuck, but you need to get your man to talk to these people, give in, stop doing whatever you are doing to bring this shit on you. It needs to stop.
He wants to talk to them. We've been trying to set up a meeting. O'Leary hasn't been able to get it A.D.A. LAWRENCE I'll talk to him. ANDREW gives him a look.
I'll talk to him. ANDREW gives him a look.
I talked to the Hasid, I got us three days. ANDREW nods.
Is that enough?
I don't know.
Well here it is. It's just a first He hands him the plea deal from the DA. ABEL looks it over but shows almost no emotion. Then.
Felons can't vote. This takes ANDREW back.
I'm sorry?
This plea has me.
I know. It's just a first offer.
I would never take this.
I know. ABEL looks off and resets.
ANDREW WALSH
Lawrence, he's tight with O'Leary.
Of course he is.
Does Julian have anything? ABEL gives him a look?
All the drivers could have us on scales. Why?
If we are cutting deals, we can't have anything new come up at the last minute.
He would never do that.
We need to find him. Lawrence needs him.
Thank you for letting me in.
Of course. ABEL moves his chair closer. It's meant to be, and is a bit Have you seen Julian?
Have you seen Julian?
ABEL questions her with a look.
We need to find him.
I know.
I am worried about him.
So am I.
You know we were going to support him. I do not know why he ran.
He was scared. ABEL shakes his head.
I know.
He has always wanted to make you proud. You know that right?
Yes. Well this time that hasn't worked out.
No. How did you do it?
Do what?
She motions towards his suit.
I know. It makes me very sad, because he is a very talented young man. But there are some decisions that you cannot come back from. I need to know where he is. And I need him to turn himself in. His actions are hurting me and my business. And I refuse to let other people's weaknesses hurt me. I don't know how it has come to this, but it has. If he does the right thing I will help to take care of his responsibilities. You and your family. When you see him. Tell him this. Please.
I will. ABEL gets up and starts looking around the apartment a bit. He walks over to a small cabinet.
Does he have any money?
I'm sorry?
Money? Has he taken money out of your bank account?
I don't know?
You need to start looking into these things. It is very important that we find him safely. And with that JULIAN comes smashing out of the tiny cabinet where he was hiding and knocks over ABEL. JULIAN runs to the front door with ABEL chasing him. He starts flying down the stairs at top panic speed. ABEL follows him down half the flight and realizes it is useless.
I understand why you lied, but it is not smart.
Fuck You! You better run!
Thank you both for agreeing to meet with me.
Of course.
I think we have met before but I didn't realize you were Saul's I am.
I am.
I'm sorry to ask but how old are I'm 23.
I'm 23.
LORRAINE LEFKOWITZ
My Grandfather didn't trust any of his children to run the business.
LORRAINE LEFKOWITZ LORRAINE LEFKOWITZ
I know that you tried to buy the company from my Grandfather several His goal was to stay healthy long enough to be able to give the company to me. Which he thankfully They both give a slight smile.
LORRAINE LEFKOWITZ
His goal was to stay healthy long enough to be able to give the company to me. Which he thankfully They both give a slight smile.
I understand. And I hope that your Grandfather was able to communicate to you how much I have always respected him. And it was only out of respect for the business he had built, and because I knew of his reservations and feelings about your uncles and your father that I made those offers.
I understand.
But, I am not here to offer to buy your company.
As I'm sure you will soon learn some years are good. others not so. I am in contract with a significant hard deposit at risk to purchase the old Bayfront terminal.
As I'm sure you will soon learn some years are good. others not so. I am in contract with a significant hard deposit at risk to purchase the old Bayfront terminal.
I see.
And due to circumstances beyond my control my bank has left me at the I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
So, I am here, hat in hand, looking for a loan. I certainly expect the terms to be in your favor as I could not be at a weaker place. But, if your Grandfather trusted you with his company, I would be willing to trust you as my lien They all stare at each other. Then the old man shifts in his How much?
How much?
I need $500,000. SAUL and his GRANDDAUGHTER look at each other. They say nothing but clearly know each other well.
Would you give us a minute.
Of course.
You can go back in.
We can offer you the 500k at 20 percent for a year.
Okay. Thank you. They shake hands and then he hugs the old man good bye.
So, I guess we will see you Tonight? Oh yes, of course.
Tonight? Oh yes, of course.
Abel. Please sit. Finally everyone settles and the room falls quiet.
ABEL is deadly serious. He just lets this sit and looks around the room at each person. They all seem to be waiting for him to continue. But he doesn't. He just lets this sit. Finally PETER FORENTE, who is across from ABEL, shifts in his seat and leans forward.
Um. Abel. we had a chance to meet for a little bit before you got here and. of course everyone in this room is fully capable of lying to their own mothers on their deathbeds, but. the conclusion we have come to. I should say we are fairly convinced after a very frank conversation. that these guys who are doing this. that they don't actually work for anyone in this room. As you know there are many other smaller providers in the area that might be responsible who are not here tonight. This sits in the room for a long beat. Everyone then shifts back their attention to ABEL waiting for his response. Peter. thank you. That may be He stops and thinks about how to continue.
Peter. thank you. That may be He stops and thinks about how to continue.
She looks up with a small but sweet smile.
How's it coming?
How's it coming?
I've made it to 1975.
That was a good year. ANNA gives a slight look that the numbers may not totally support that claim.
I'm not sure yet. but it's not as bad as they are saying it is. I guess I knew what I was doing. They give each other a slight smile.
I got us a three more days. and one piece. from Saul. But we're still about a million short. Concern and exhaustion creep onto Abel's face.
You're going to see your little First thing.
First thing.
And Peter?
Abel is now sitting down on the chair.
They're fine. ANNA gets up from her desk and comes over to him.
Of course.
Look at us.it is.
I know. A sense of caring and resolve comes over them. At least now they know what needs to be done.
I'll be up.
I love you.
I love you too. ABEL turns to go upstairs as ANNA starts in again with the INT. ABEL'S CAR - DRIVING - DAY ABEL is driving towards the office and is listening to the idle chatter on the radio between the dispatcher and the drivers who are out. They are underneath the Brooklyn Queens Expressway in stop and go traffic. Suddenly a panic stricken VOICE blasts through on the radio.
Please. Please. They stare at each other.
Your friend is dead. who do you work for.
You know I could never tell you Stop. just stop.
Stop. just stop.
This was it anyway. Okay. Okay. ABEL looks right through him and then finally lowers the gun and releases his hands from around his jacket and he gets up and looks back at ABEL.
Jimmy, can you give me a minute? Jimmy looks around then walks into the back.
Jimmy, can you give me a minute? Jimmy looks around then walks into the back.
Abel, that was well said.
Thank you.
What can I do for you?
I've just come to collect that check you owe me. This takes him back a step.
What check is that?
The one for $213,000.
I'm sorry?
That's how much has been taken from me over the last six months.
I had nothing to do with that.
Your Far Rockaway facility bought a load of fuel last week off one of my stolen trucks.
That's not possible.
I was standing on top of one of my hi-jacked trucks a couple weeks ago thinking about the cowards who did this when I remembered I had bought the load of fuel off a friend's tanker straight from Texas. As I'm sure you know Texas #4 is marked. But that was just one load, so every truck that has left my lot for the last two weeks has been marked with dye that I've put in. And luckily four more of my trucks got jacked since.. My guess is there are at least 4600 gallons of marked fuel in your small tank right now. No answer. Finally.
How much?
I said.213,000.
I'll need a day.
ABEL gets ready to leave.
I've just been buying this stuff off these guys, it was only a couple loads, I don't know who they are. I would never do that.
My goal was to have you out of business by the end of next year. And if you're this fucking desperate it doesn't seem like it will even take that long. He walks away.
Abel, I wasn't the only person buying this shit. He turns.
I don't care.
It may ruin me.
When you find out who else it was you can get them to pay you back the difference. Kinda makes you miss having your father around? But I need the whole lot tomorrow or the feds will be at your doorstep by noon. He leaves.
You look good out there.
I didn't know you were coming.
I didn't either. I didn't mean to take you away.
We're done. He sits down next to him. They both look out for a long, long Thanks for coming.
Of course. You've grown.
You saw me a month ago.
I know. but you have. ABEL looks across as a small group of GIRLS FIELD HOCKEY PLAYERS walk across the field in front of them. They watch them pass and walk away.
I don't know how you get anything done around here.
I don't know how you get anything done around here.
I don't. Slight smile at each other.
I'm in a bit of a rough patch.
It happens.
It happens.
I know.
ABEL stands and looks around for a good bit. Then thinks about sitting down again.
What will?
Not having had one. Then he sits.
What is it?
I need to take out a short term mortgage on our apartment building.
That thing isn't worth more than 150 grand though?
Since when do you need to be taking out sucker mortgages for 200 grand?
Since when do you need to be taking out sucker mortgages for 200 grand?
I'm up against it a bit. It will be They look at each other for a long beat. And then he signs Thank you. It's good to see your I love you.
I love you.
I love you too. They hug and then ELIAS walks off. ABEL sits back down and just watches him walk away.
Well here he is. The caped Come over. Are you alright?
PETER FORENTE
Come over. Are you alright?
I am.
Did they catch any of them? Sit.
The one guy didn't make it out of the crash, and the other guy That was very well said last night.
That was very well said last night.
Thank you. And thanks for seeing Of course. So what is it?
Of course. So what is it?
I need a loan.
You don't want to do that.
No shit. but I'm here.
What are we talking about here.
Six hundred thousand.
Jesus. Abel, that's a problem.
Yes. but if I don't get it.
What's my collateral?
The terminal.
Yeah me and how many other people will be coming after it. No way.
You'll get your money.
Abel, you know I respect everything you've done. Because of it we haven't come down on you the way I should have for coming into my service area and poaching my customers. You're good at what you do, probably better than us, and I accept that. But this would be different. I don't want you to be in this position. We are not nice people to borrow three quarters of million dollars from.
I know that.
Let's sleep on this. Both of us.
What a day.
Are you okay?
Are you okay?
Car chases?
Car chases?
Who knew? She gives him a loving look.
Who knew? She gives him a loving look.
He seemed good. But the girls up at that place are.
I can tell you the girls didn't look like that where I went to After a brief light moment the cloud comes back over him.
I can tell you the girls didn't look like that where I went to After a brief light moment the cloud comes back over him.
After a brief light moment the cloud comes back over him.
How are we here?
It was a lot of things all at once.
How did it go?
How did it go?
We can probably pull it off. Three different parties. it'll be a mess. and the terms. Peter suddenly showed me his true colors. He lets out a brutal sigh.
I'm sorry.
I spent my whole life trying not to become a gangster.
I know.
.And now. on the biggest deal in my career they will all control He sits there for a long beat and then she comes and hands him a piece of paper with a series of numbers on it. He looks up at her.
It's a bank account. ABEL just waits for more but gets nothing.
How much is in it?
How much is in it?
How much is in it?
A lot.
What does that mean?
It will help. You could replace Peter's money and get him out of the deal.
Where did it come from?
Where did it come from? She stops and thinks, thenWhere did it come from? She stops and thinks, thenSince 1971 I have been skimming money out of the company. Some years a little. others a lot. In the beginning it was just in case times got tough but then it was because you were taking all these chances. I didn't know what else to do. I couldn't risk having us be left with nothing. This knocks him back.
What do you expect me to do with Use it.. Abel.
Use it.. Abel.
Is it clean?
What does that mean? He thinks that through.
It means if you walked into the office of the people who have been trying to put us in jail right now and slapped a check from that account down on their desk would it push me further into hell or help to get me out?
It's as clean as every other dollar we've ever made.
That's a fucking bullshit answer.
I can clear it on the books.
Well it sounds like you should take this money and keep it right where it is. because I'm going to pretend that we never had this conversation. And you can use that when they drag me off to jail! With that he tries to get passed her and head upstairs. She follows and is standing looking up at him.
So what's your plan here? He turns to her and squares off.
I'll get it done. And it won't be as a cheat.
Oh you are too much. You've been walking around your whole life like this all happened because of your hard work, good luck, and charm. Mr. Fucking American Dream. Well this is America. but it's not a dream, and that wasn't good luck helping you out all those years. IT WAS ME! Doing the things you didn't want to know about.
You stole from me! This stops her in her tracks. And eventually a little smile comes across her face. She comes way down and almost delivers this line in a whisper.
Oh. You have always been very good about not letting your ego get in the way of business. Don't start now just because it's me. With that ABEL turns up the stairs and heads to bed.
We'll use the money. your money. It's the smart play.
It's our money.
I know.
These fucking guys.what's this additional $11,000?
I guess there is still some fuel in two of the tanks. they gave us a fair price on it. With that they both smile, she signs it and then gives him a INT. TEMPORARY TRAILER - DAY ABEL comes back in and hands the docs to JOSEPH, the oldest Hasid, who signs them.
Mazel Tov.
To you too. Did you know.about the money?
To you too. Did you know.about the money?
ANDREW looks him right in the eye.
You should have told me.
You should have told me.
I know. I'm sorry.
Abel.congratulations. Now cheer up. And can someone give me a tour of this place we just paid two million bucks for? ABEL, ANDREW, and ANNA walk towards the tanks looking around. They come around the corner to THE VIEW.
What a hell-hole this city is.
ANDREW WALSH
I don't know why but I guess I never realized we even had this view from back here. That line sits for a long beat.
I did. Then they hear someone behind them. They turn. It's JULIAN. He is standing holding a gun. They stare for a long beat.
I didn't.
I see that.
I have nowhere to go.
Nowhere easy.
Fuck you. I have nothing. And somehow you've ended up with everything you wanted. ABEL looks at the gun in his hand.
It wasn't meant to be.
What is that supposed to mean?
I know what you wanted. But you need to forget that. You are looking backward. Only look forward, that is what you can I'm sorry. You gave me a very good chance. Right?
I'm sorry. You gave me a very good chance. Right?
Probably a better chance than I Please take care of my family.
Probably a better chance than I Please take care of my family.
Please take care of my family.
Please take care of my family.
ABEL looks at him trying to read where this poor kid is at.
ABEL looks at him trying to read where this poor kid is at.
I will. With that JULIAN takes the gun and puts it in his mouth and pulls the trigger. The gun goes off and the red blood sprays on the white side of the fuel tank that is behind him. ABEL and the rest are left totally in shock. They are beside themselves. But out of the corner of his eye ABEL notices that the bullet has also pierced through the tank and amid the red spray a flow of black heating oil is pouring out through the bullet hole onto the ground. ABEL steps around JULIAN'S body and goes over to the hole. He picks up an old rag from the ground and stuffs it into the hole plugging the flow of oil.
What. what should we do?
We call the police.
With that he walks off behind the tanks.
With that he walks off behind the tanks.
I'm very sorry. Did you know him I did.
I did.
He must have been under a hell of a lot of pressure.
Yeah. For a while I thought he was. it's just.
I'm sorry. They look out across the city.
You really do have to be lucky.
Yes. so you are chasing down hijackers now?
I was right there. I couldn't help myself. LAWRENCE nods approval.
You'll find him.
You'll find him.
Probably not.
Well, thank you for coming. I wanted to make sure this was handled correctly.
Of course.
I'm not sure how I got here.
So. I should tell you that I won't be able to take that deal you offered. There is no way I would ever accept a felony charge for anything we've done.
So. I should tell you that I won't be able to take that deal you offered. There is no way I would ever accept a felony charge for anything we've done.
I know.
I am not a felon.
That's probably true.
But I also can't have you digging around my life and keeping this hanging around my neck for the next ten years. I love fighting a good battle but this. it's very bad for my business. This gets Lawrence's attention.
We can probably do that.
They both look out for a beat.
I hear you closed on this terminal It looks that way.
It looks that way.
I didn't realize that you had that in the works.
For a very long time.
That will put you in quite a powerful position.
Within my business it has that LAWRENCE shifts his tone ever so slightly.
If you get this place up and running again it will have significant influence. politically speaking. ABEL picks up on the word POLITICALLY and stares down
LAWRENCE gives a slight smile and then pauses.
And sometimes we need help to get there. You've come a very long Yes, I have.
Yes, I have.
In a very short time.
It doesn't feel that way. But please know that I have always chosen the path that was the most A.D.A. LAWRENCE The most right?
The most right?
A.D.A. LAWRENCE That one makes my head hurt a The result is never in question for me. Just what path do I take to get there. And I have never questioned my path. There is always one that is most right. And that is what this is.
That one makes my head hurt a The result is never in question for me. Just what path do I take to get there. And I have never questioned my path. There is always one that is most right. And that is what this is.
The result is never in question for me. Just what path do I take to get there. And I have never questioned my path. There is always one that is most right. And that is what this is.
I hope so. They look at each other and then out over the city.
WritersWhat a marvel. what a marvel.
As its door opens and the man enters.
The man crosses to the stove with his bundle of wood. The voice . Can you help me with the ice? The man dumps the wood into a box by the stove as his wife enters with an ice pick. . I expected you hours ago.
The man crosses to the stove with his bundle of wood. The voice . Can you help me with the ice? The man dumps the wood into a box by the stove as his wife enters with an ice pick. . I expected you hours ago.
You can't imagine what just happened. I was coming back on the Lublin road when the wheel came off the cart thank heavens it was the way back and I'd already sold the How much?
How much?
Fifteen groshen, but that's not the story. I was struggling to set the cart upright when a droshky approaches from the direction of Lvov. How lucky, you think, that someone is out this late.
Yes, very remarkable.
But that's the least of it! He stops to help me; we talk of this, we talk of that-it turns out this is someone you know! Traitle Groshkover!
God has cursed us.
Traitle Groshkover has been dead for three years.
Traitle Groshkover has been dead for three years.
Why do you say such a thing! I saw the man! I talked to him!
You talked to a dybbuk. Traitle Groshkover died of typhus in Pesel Bunim's house. Pesel told me-she sat shiva for They stare at each through a silence broken only by the sound of the quickening wind. A rap at the door. Neither immediately responds. Finally, to her husbandFor some soup, to warm himself. The wind moans. He helped me, Dora!
We are looking in from the outside as it unlatches and creaks in, opened by the husband in the foreground, who has arranged his face into a strained look of greeting. In the background the wife stares, hollow-eyed.
REB GROSHKOVER! You are welcome here! Reverse on REB GROSHKOVERYou are too kind, Velvel! Too kind!
Yes! A ray of sun, a ray of sun! Sit!
My husband said he offered you soup.
Yes, but I couldn't possibly eat this late, or I'd have nightmares. No, noI knew it.
I see! You think I'm fat enough already!
No. A dybbuk doesn't eat.
What a wife you have!
I assure you, REB GROSHKOVER, it's nothing personal; she heard a story you had died, three years ago, at Pesel Bunim's house. This is why she think you are a dybbuk; I, of course, do not believe in such things. I am a rational REB GROSHKOVER is still chuckling.
Oh my. Oh my yes. What nonsense. And even if there were spirits, certainly. He thumps his chest. I am not one of them!
Pesel always worried. Your corpse was left unattended for many minutes when Pesel's father broke shiva and left the room-it must have been then that the Evil One- She breaks off to spit at the mention of the Evil One. -took you!
"My corpse!" Honestly! What a wife you have!
Oh yes? Look, husband.
I shaved hastily this morning and missed a bit-by you this makes me a dybbuk?
Woman, what have you done?
Why would she do such a thing?
What do you say now about spirits? He is unharmed!
On the contrary! I don't feel at all well.
Dora! Woe, woe! How can such a thing be!
Perhaps I will have some soup. I am feeling weak.
Dear wife. We are ruined. Tomorrow they will discover the body. All is lost.
Nonsense, Velvel. She walks to the door. Blessed is the Lord. Good riddance to evil and shuts it against the wind.
A drumbeat thumps in the black. Music blaresA pull back-a reverse on the preceding push in-from the cheap white plastic earpiece of a transistor radio. The Jefferson Airplane continues over the cut but becomes extremely compressed. The pull back reveals that the earpiece is lodged in someone's ear and trails a white cord.
Mee yodayah? Reuven? Rifkah? Mah zeh "anakim"? Efsheh mashooach ba-avodah?
HEBREW SCHOOL Close on Hebrew characters being scribbled onto the blackboard as the TEACHER talks. The TEACHER, talking. A bored child, staring off. His point-of-viewClose on Hebrew characters being scribbled onto the blackboard as the TEACHER talks. The TEACHER, talking. A bored child, staring off. His point-of-viewFagle!.. . The TEACHER drones on, writing on the blackboard. DANNY's eyes flit from the TEACHER to the student sitting kitty-corner in front of him-a husky youth with shaggy hair. He hasn't heard the prompt. . Fagle! The TEACHER turns from the blackboard and DANNY leans back, eyes front, folding the twenty up small behind his book.
Ahnee rotzeh lalechet habait hakisai. Mee yodayah? Misaviv tamid anachnoo tamid. The clock-watching child, eyelids sinking, is beginning to drool out of one side of his DOCTOR'S OFFICE The light again flaring the lens. ReverseThe light again flaring the lens. ReverseHEBREW SCHOOL A bored child is excavating a bugger from his nose. The TEACHER turns back to the chalkboard to circle something.
A bored child is excavating a bugger from his nose. The TEACHER turns back to the chalkboard to circle something.
Hamrah oomoh- He interrupts himself briefly to make a couple of phlegm-hawking sounds. He resumesHamrah oomoh- He interrupts himself briefly to make a couple of phlegm-hawking sounds. He resumesThe DOCTOR palpates LARRY's midriff, digging his fingers into the hairy, baggy flesh. DOCTOR's Voice Uh-huh. We'll do some routine X-rays.
A young girl holds a hank of her bangs in front of her face, separating out individual hairs to examine them for split ends.
Ahnoo ahnoo mah? Mah? Talmidim? D'vorah?
Ahnee to yodayah. The TEACHER begins to pace the desk aisles, looking back and forth among the students.
Mee yodayah? The bugger-seeker, having succesfully withdrawn a bugger, carefully drapes it over the sharp end of his pencil, to what end we cannot know. DANNY, apprehensively eyeing the TEACHER, slides the twenty into the transistor radio's X-RAY CONE A huge white rubberized cone, pointed directly at us. We hear a rush of static and the DOCTOR's voice filtered through a talk-backThe clock-watching student's head is making descending bobs toward his chest.
Nefsheh shelach hamilamid-eh?! The TEACHER's circuit of the classroom has taken him around behind DANNY. DANNY's book lies face-down on the desk, covering the radio, but the white cord snakes out from under it up to his ear. The TEACHER yanks at the cord.
Shechet! Shechet bivakasha! The nodding student's head droops ever lower. Other students join in the chantLARRY, now fully clothed, is seated across from the DOCTOR. The DOCTOR is looking at his file. He absently taps a cigarette out of a pack and lights up. He nods as he smokes, looking at the file.
Well, I-sorry. He holds the pack toward LARRY.
No thanks.
Well, you're in good health. How're Judith and the kids?
Good. Everyone's good. You know. The DOCTOR takes a long suck.
Good. Daniel must be-what? About to be bar mitzvah?
Two weeks.
Well, mazel tov. They grow up fast, don't they?
Hmm. eh. nu?
You put the- The old man holds up one hand.
In ivrit. 
The old man looks down at the little earpiece pinched between two fingers. He examines it as a superstitious native might a Coca-Cola bottle. The source of the electrical humYeah, you- The principal's tone is harderIn ivrit! This time his cold look holds until he is sure that the admonishment has registered. He looks back down at the earpiece. We hear the door open. The principal ignores it. An old woman walks slowly in with a teacup chattering on a saucer. She has thick eyeglasses. She wears thick flesh-colored support hose. She takes slow, short steps toward the desk. The principal is studying the radio.
The old woman continues to take slow short steps toward him. The tableau looks like a performance-art piece. She reaches the desk and sets the teacup down. She summons a couple of phlegm- hawking rasps and turns to go. She takes slow short steps toward the door. The principal raises the earpiece experimentally toward his ear. in the earpiece. The i f ngers push and wobble and tamp the earpiece into place, hesitate, and then do some more pushing and wobbling and tamping. The principal keeps DANNY fixed with a stare as his hand hesitantly drops from his ear, ready to reach back up should the earpiece loosen. Satisfied that neither the student nor the earpiece are about to make any sudden moves, he looks down at the radio. He turns a dial. Faintly and tinnily from the earpiece we hear the compressed jangle of rock music. The rabbi stares blankly, listening. DANNY slumps, looking warily at the rabbi. The rabbi continues to stare down at the radio. The compressed rock music jangles on. The rabbi is expressionless, mouth slightly open, listening. TableauWe are behind a man who writes equations on a chalkboard, shoulder at work and hand quickly waggling. Periodically he glances back, giving us a fleeting look at his faceYou following this?. Okay?.. So. Heh-heh. This part is exciting. Students follow along, bored. LARRY continues to write. . So, okay. So. So if that's that, then we can do this, right? Is that right? Isn't that right? And that's Schrodinger's paradox, right? Is the cat dead or is the cat not dead? Okay?
LARRY is entering the physics department office. The department's secretary wheels her castored chair away from her typing.
Messages, Professor Gopnik. He takes the three phone messages.
Thank you, Natalie. Oh-CLIVE. Come in. A Korean graduate student who was been waiting on a straightbacked chair rises.
He is flipping through the messages. AbsentlySo, uh, what can I do for you? The messagesUh, Dr. Gopnik, I believe the results of Physics Mid-Term were unjust.
Uh-huh, how so?
I received an unsatisfactory grade. In factUh, yes. You failed the mid-term. That's accurate.
Yes, but this is not just. I was unaware to be examined on the mathematics.
Well-you can't do physics without mathematics, really, can you.
If I receive failing grade I lose my scholarship, and feel shame. I understand the physics. I understand the dead cat.
You understand the dead cat?
Very difficult. very difficult.
Well, I. I'm sorry, but I. what do you propose?
Passing grade.
No no, I-
Or perhaps I can take the mid-term again. Now I know it covers mathematics.
Well, the other students wouldn't like that, would they. If one student gets to retake the test til he gets a grade he CLIVE impassively considers this.
Secret test. LARRY wraps a hand wearily over his eyes.
. No, I'm afraid-
No, that's just not workable. I'm afraid we'll just have to bite the bullet on this thing, CLIVE, and-
No, that's just not workable. I'm afraid we'll just have to bite the bullet on this thing, CLIVE, and-
Very troubling. He rises. . very troubling. He goes to the door, shaking his head, as LARRY looks on in surprise. He leaves. LARRY stares at the open door. The secretary outside, her back to us, types on. LARRY. looks stupidly around his own office, shakes his head. He picks up the phone message from Sy Ableman-"Let's talk"-and dials. As he dials his other hand wanders over the papers on the desktop. There is a plain white envelope on the desk. LARRY picks it up as the phone rings through. A ring is clipped short and a warm basso-baritone rumbles through the lineHello, Sy, LARRY Gopnik.
LARRY. How are you, my friend. LARRY picks idly at the envelope.
Good, how've you been, Sy?
Oh fine. Shall we talk LARRY. LARRY reacts to the money.
What?! Oh! Sorry! I, uh-call back! He slams down the phone.
He rushes out the door, through the secretarial area, and into the hallway, and looks up toward the elevators. He looks at the stuffed envelope he still holds. He goes back to the departmental office. The secretary sits typing. She glances at him and, as she goes back to her typingSy Ableman just called. Said he got disconnected.
A hand enters to knock. Man's Voice Out in a minute! SARAH, the sixteen-year-old girl who has just knocked, rolls her eyes.
I gotta wash my hair! I'm going out tonight!
Out in a minute!
Jesus Christ! She stomps down the hall.
Judith, a woman of early middle age, is at the stove. SARAH enters.
W is Uncle Arthur always in the bathroom?
He has to drain his sebacious cyst. You know that. Will you set the table?
Why can't he do it in the basement? Or go out in the We are raking the exterior of an orange school bus as it rattles along. Hebrew characters on the side identify it-to some, anyway.
We are raking the exterior of an orange school bus as it rattles along. Hebrew characters on the side identify it-to some, anyway.
We are locked down on DANNY as the bus rattles like an old crate, squeaking, grinding gears, belching exhaust. DANNY and the children around him vibrate and pitch about but, from their lack of reaction, seem used to it. They raise their voices to be heard over the engine noise and the various stress noises in the chassis and a transistor radio somewhere that plays Jefferson I had twenty bucks in it too. Inside the case.
I had twenty bucks in it too. Inside the case.
I bought a lid from Mike Fagle. Couple weeks ago. I still owed him twenty. Mark Sallerson He already gave you the pot?
Yeah but a couple weeks ago my funding got cut off. Fagle said he'd pound the crap out of me if I didn't pay up. Howard Altar What funding got cut off? Where do you get your money? Another boy, with thick glasses, is Ronnie Nudell. Ronnie Nudell What happened? Mark Sallerson Rabbi Turchik took his radio. Had money in it. Ronnie Nudell That fucker!
Yeah. I think he said he was confiscating it. Ronnie Nudell He's a fucker! Where do you get your money? Mark Sallerson Mike Fagle's gonna kick his ass. Last week he pounded the crap out of Seth Seddlemeyer.
A hand enters to knock. Uncle Arthur's Voice Out in a minute!
Are you still in there?! Uncle Arthur I, uh.. . Just a minute!
I've gotta wash my hair! I'm going out tonight, to the hole! Uncle Arthur LARRY pulls into the driveway and gets out of the car. The purr of a lawn mower. He His point-of-viewLARRY pulls into the driveway and gets out of the car. The purr of a lawn mower. He His point-of-viewLARRY sits in. His wife and two children are already seated. There is one empty place. LARRY projectsA muffled voiceOkay! Out in a minute!
Okay! Out in a minute!
Okay! Out in a minute!
We should wait.
Are you kidding! They start eating.
Mr. Brandt keeps mowing part of our lawn.
Does that matter?
Is it important? LARRY shrugs.
Is it important? LARRY shrugs.
It's just odd.
Any news on your tenure?
I think they'll give me tenure.
You think.
Well, I don't know. These things aren't, you know.. .
No, I don't know. Which is why I ask.
Mom, how long is Uncle Arthur staying with us?
Mom, how long is Uncle Arthur staying with us?
Ask your father.
LARRY is stepping onto a hose as he unwheels it from the drum of a traveling sprinkler, laying out an are to cover the back yard. Intermittent thwacks from next doorLARRY walks over to the boundary defined by the fresh mowing. He sights down it. Gar Brandt looks over his shoulder at LARRY, looking. Gar Brandt is expressionless. He
Evening. Lights on. LARRY sits at the kitchen table, a briefcase open on the chair next to him. Blue books-examination booklets-are spread on the table in front of him. He reads, occasionally making marginal scribbles, grading. From off, faint and dulled by intervening walls, rock musicEvening. Lights on. LARRY sits at the kitchen table, a briefcase open on the chair next to him. Blue books-examination booklets-are spread on the table in front of him. He reads, occasionally making marginal scribbles, grading. From off, faint and dulled by intervening walls, rock musicDid you talk to Sy? Still absent, without looking upDid you talk to Sy? Still absent, without looking upDid you talk to Sy? Still absent, without looking upSy?-Sy Ableman!-That's right, he called, but I-
You didn't talk to him.
No, I-
You know the problems you and I have been having. Sympathetic, but still absentWell, Sy and I have become very close. This brings LARRY's head up. He focuses on JUDY, puzzled. She In.shortWell, Sy and I have become very close. This brings LARRY's head up. He focuses on JUDY, puzzled. She In.short. Sy Ableman!
This is not about Sy.
You mentioned Sy!
Don't twist my words. We-
A divorce-what have I done! I haven't done anything- What have I done!
LARRY, don't be a child. You haven't "done" anything. I haven't "done" anything.
Yes! Yes! We haven't done anything! And I-I'm probably about to get tenure!
Nevertheless, there have been problems. As you know.
And things have changed. And then-Sy Ableman. Sy has come into my life. And now-
And things have changed. And then-Sy Ableman. Sy has come into my life. And now-
Come into your-what does that mean?! You, you, you, you barely know him!
We've known the Ablemans for fifteen years.
Yes, but you you said we hadn't done anything! JUDY suddenly is stonyI haven't done anything. This is not some flashy fling. This is not about woopsy-doopsy. LARRY stares at her.
Sy Ableman! From down the hall, a knock on a door. A muffled voiceOut in a minute!
Look, I didn't know any other way of breaking it to you. Except to tell you. And treat you like an adult. Is that so LARRY does not seem to be listening. His eyes roam the room as he thinks.
Where do I sleep? JUDY narrows her eyes.
Arthur's on the couch!
Arthur's on the couch!
Look. Sy feels that we should-
Esther is barely cold!
Esther died three years ago. And it was a loveless marriage. Sy wants a Gett. This derails the conversation. LARRY stares, trying to pick up the thread.
. A what?
A ritual divorce. He says it's very important. Without a Gett I'm an Aguna.
A what? What are you talking about? She turns to go, shaking her head, peevedYou always act so surprised. As she leavesLARRY has fallen asleep at the kitchen table, face-down in a pile of blue books. Cold blue light sweeps across him and he looks up.
BLEGEN HALL LARRY enters the departmental office. His eyes are red-rimmed and dark-bagged. He has beard stubble. The department's secretary wheels her castored chair away from her typing.
LARRY enters the departmental office. His eyes are red-rimmed and dark-bagged. He has beard stubble. The department's secretary wheels her castored chair away from her typing.
Messages, Professor Gopnik. He takes the two phone messages.
LARRY looks at the messagesYes-thanks for coming, CLIVE. CLIVE Park enters the office.
I didn't leave it.
Wellyou don't even know what I was going to say.
I didn't leave anything. I'm not missing anything. I know where everything is. LARRY looks at him, trying to formulate a thought.
Well. then, CLIVE, where did this come from? He waves the envelope. . This is here, isn't it? CLIVE looks at it gravely.
Yes, sir. That is there.
This is not nothing, this is something.
Yes sir. That is something. A beat. . What is it.
You know what it is! You know what it is! I believe. And
Of course, sir.
I'll have to pass it on to Professor Finkle, along with my suspicions about where it came from. Actions have Yes. Often.
Yes. Often.
Always! Actions always have consequences! He pounds the desk for emphasis. In this office, actions have consequences!
Yes sir.
Not just physics. Morally.
And we both know about your actions.
And we both know about your actions.
No sir. I know about my actions.
I can interpret, CLIVE. I know what you meant me to Meer sir my sir. LARRY cocks his head.
Meer sir my sir. LARRY cocks his head.
. Meer sir my sir?
Mere. surmise. Sir. He gravely shakes his head. . Very uncertain.
Rabbi Youssele wears a caftan and a felt hat and has sad eyes. They peer out from the dark beard that covers most of the rest of his face like owl's eyes peering out of the Wider, on DANNY, in his bedroom, evening. He lifts the tone arm on the portable He chants the passage. He drops the tone arm at the same place; Rabbi Youssele chants the passage again. DANNY listens, eyes narrowed. He lifts the tone arm and chants the passage again. He replays the passage again; before he can lift the tone arm to echo it his door bursts open. Rabbi Youssele continues to chant.
You little brat fucker! You snuck twenty bucks out of my Studying torah! Asshole!
Studying torah! Asshole!
You little brat! I'm telling Dad!
Oh yeah? You gonna tell him you've been sneaking it out of his wallet?
All right, you know what I'm gonna do? You little brat? If you don't give it back? We hear the thunk of the front door opening. DANNY stands, callingLARRY is entering with his briefcase. As he stows it in the foyer closet DANNY's voice continues, offLARRY is entering with his briefcase. As he stows it in the foyer closet DANNY's voice continues, offDad, you gotta fix the aerial. Judith emerges from the kitchen.
Hello LARRY, have you thought about a lawyer?
Honey, please! DANNY emerges from the hall.
We're not getting channel four at all.
Can we discuss it later?
I can't get F Troop.
LARRY, the children know. Do you think this is some secret? Do you think this is something we're going to keep quiet? SARAH enters.
Dad, Uncle Arthur is in the bathroom again! And I=m going to the hole at eight! She hits DANNY on the back of the head.
Stop it!
SARAH! What's going on!
She keeps doing that!
LARRY sits in a reclining chair in the living room, head back, listening to Sidor Belarsky on the hi-fi. On top of the music is a hissing-sucking sound. There is also the sound of a pencil busily scratching paper. We cut to its sourceUncle Arthur does not look up from his scribbling. Uncle Arthur LARRY continues to stare at the ceiling.
What're you doing? Still without looking upAny luck, um, looking for an apartment? More scribbling. Uncle Arthur The doorbell chimes.
LARRY enters, glances through the front door's head-height window, and-freezes, one hand arrested on the way to the doorknob. His point-of-viewSy, entering, thrusts out a hand. His voice vibrates with a warm, sad empathyGood to see you, LARRY. He is a heavy-set man wearing a short-sleeved shirt that his belly tents out in front of him. In his left hand he holds a bottle of wine.
I'll get Judith.
No, actually LARRY, I'm here to see you, if I might. He shakes his head. . Such a thing. Such a thing.
Shall we go in the. He is leading him into the kitchen but Sy, oblivious to surroundings, plows on with the conversation, arresting both men in the narrow space between kitchen sink and stove, and invading LARRY's space.
You know, LARRY-how we handle ourselves, in this situation-it's so impawtant.
Absolutely. Judith told me that she broke the news to you. She said you were very adult.
Absolutely. Judith told me that she broke the news to you. She said you were very adult.
Did she.
Absolutely. The respect she has for you.
Absolutely. But the children, LARRY. The children. He shakes his head. . The most impawtant.
Absolutely. But the children, LARRY. The children. He shakes his head. . The most impawtant.
Well, I guess.
Of coss. And Judith says they're handling it so well. A tribute to you. Do you drink wine? Because this is an incredible bottle. This is not Mogen David. This is a wine, LARRY. A bawdeaux.
You know, Sy-
Open it-let it breathe. Ten minutes. Letting it breathe, so Thanks, Sy, but I'm not-
Thanks, Sy, but I'm not-
I insist! No reason for discumfit. I'll be uncumftable if you don't take it. These are signs and tokens, LARRY.
I'm just-I'm not ungrateful, I'm, I just don't know a lot about wine and, given our respective, you know- He is startled when Sy abruptly hugs him.
S' okay. He finishes the hug off with a couple of thumps on the back. S'okay. Wuhgonnabe fine.
The bathroom door cracks open in the foreground. DANNY peeks His point-of-viewThe photo-portrait on the wall of Mar Turchik's office lit by late-day sun. We hear a scraping sound.
We are behind the two boys who sit side by side on the last pew, staring at the front of the empty sanctuary. Its stained glass windows further weaken the late-afternoon light. In deference to the location, the boys wear yarmulkas. A long hold on their still backs. At length, some movement in DANNY's back, his head dips, and we hear him sucking on the joint. He holds it, exhales, and passes it wordlessly to Ronnie Nudell.
We are pulling DANNY as he walks along the street, eyes red-rimmed, still wearing his yarmulka. It is dusk. After a few beats of walking, the front door of a house just behind DANNY opens. A husky, shaggy-haired youth emerges on the run. The sound has alerted DANNY. Seeing Mike Fagle, he too begins to run. He reaches up and grabs his yarmulka and clutches it in one of his pumping Pursued and pursuer both run wordlessly, panting, feet pounding. Mike Fagle is closing. But DANNY is already cutting across the Brandt's front yard, approaching his own. He plunges into the house and slams the Mike Fagle draws up, panting, gazing hungrily at the house.
Foreshortened Gar Brandt and Mitch are playing catch in their back yard. With each toss the ball pops, alternately in father's mitt and son's. Precariously balanced, LARRY reaches out for the aerial. He tentatively touches it. He grasps it. He twists the aerial.
Faintly, under the wineglass sound, and clouded by static, a high, ringing tenor sings in an unfamiliar modality. Cantorial music. LARRY drops his hand. Inertia keeps the aerial rotating slowly til it dies, the sound drifting away into the sybillant shushing of trees. LARRY reaches out again to turn the aerial. The same crystal hum. cantorial singing. and now, layering in, the theme from F Troop. Music. Crystal hum. Wind.
LARRY's look travelsA pencil scratches equations into a lamplit spiral notebook. Sidor Belarsky comes in at the cut. So does the spluttering suck-sound of Uncle Arthur's Wider on Uncle Arthur, in his pyjamas, propped up on the narrow fold-out sofa, writing with one hand as he holds the evacuator hose to his neck with the other. Squeezed into the living room next to the fold-out sofa is a camp cot of plaid-patterned nylon stretched over an aluminum frame. On the camp cot is LARRY, lying half-in, half- out of a rumpled sleeping bag. He stares at the ceiling, a damp washcloth pressed against his forehead. His face is flaming red. Arthur speaks absently as he scribblesWill you read this? Tell me what you think? LARRY continues to stare at the ceiling.
Uncle Arthur glances up from the notebook, focuses on LARRY.
Boy. You should've worn a hat.
The lights are out. Very quiet. Uncle Arthur lightly snores. LARRY still stares at the ceiling. He shifts his weight. The aluminum frame of the cot squeaks. He shifts again. Another creak. LARRY fishes his watch from the jumble of clothes on the floorLARRY, in his underwear, spoons ground coffee into the percolator. Uncle Arthur snores softly on in the other room. From outside, a dull thunk. LARRY pulls back a curtain. Next door, Gar Brandt is going down the walk, wearing camouflage togs and camo billed cap, a rifle bag slung over his shoulder. He is carrying an ice chest, its contents clicking and sloshing. The boy Mitch, also wearing camo clothes and cap and also with a rifle bag, has just closed the front door. He now lets the screen door swing shut behind him and follows his father down the walk to the car in the driveway. The twitter of early morning birds. Gar's voice, though not projected, stands out in the pre-dawn quietLet's see some hustle, Mitch.
This brings LARRY's look up from the Mentaculus. We are in LARRY's office. Standing in the office doorway is Arlen Finkle.
This brings LARRY's look up from the Mentaculus. We are in LARRY's office. Standing in the office doorway is Arlen Finkle.
Hi Arlen. Arlen Finkle LARRY, I feel that, as head of the tenure committee I should tell you this, though it should be no cause for concern. You should not be at all worried. LARRY waits for more. Arlen seems to need a prompt.
Arlen Finkle I feel I should mention it even though we won't give this any weight at all in considering whether to grant you tenure, so, I repeat no cause for concern.
Okay, Arlen. Give what any weight? Arlen Finkle We have received some letters, uh. denigrating you, and, well, urging that we not grant you tenure.
From who? Arlen Finkle They're anonymous. And so of course we dismiss them Well. well. what do they say? Arlen Finkle They make allegations, not even allegations, assertions, but
Well. well. what do they say? Arlen Finkle They make allegations, not even allegations, assertions, but
But. I think you're saying, these won't play any part in your deliberations. Arlen Finkle None at all.
Um, so what are they. Arlen Finkle Moral turpitude. You could say.
Uh-huh. Can I ask, are they, are they-idiomatic? Arlen Finkle I, uh.
The reason I ask, I have a Korean student, South Korean, disgruntled South Korean, and I meant to talk to you about this, actually, he- Arlen Finkle No. No, the letters are competently-even eloquently written. A native English-speaker. No question about Arlen Finkle But I reiterate this, LARRYArlen Finkle But I reiterate this, LARRYYes, okay, thank you Arlen.
Inside the bus, now moving. Engine noise bangs in louder and air roars in through open We are on the driver, a sallow man in a short-sleeved white shirt with earlocks and a yarmulke. He pitches about, stoically wrestling with the wheel and gear shift as the vehicle bucks. The pitching children. Somewhere, Jefferson Airplane plays.
I gotta get my radio back. Ronnie Nudell Maybe the fucker lodged it up his fucking asshole.
I gotta get it back. Or Mike Fagle's gonna pound the crap out of me. Ronnie Nudell
And I'll still have to get my sister the money back or she's gonna break four of my records. Twenty bucks, four Howard Altar How do you buy all those records. Where do you get your CLOSE ON LARRY Standing in his yard. His eyes are darkly pouched. He is staring at something, it seems in distress. We hear a fluttering sound. His point-of-viewGo scrub up, Mitch.
Uh, good afternoon. This brings Gar's look around. Apparently he is unused to talking with his neighbor. There is a short beat before his response.
In the background of his angle is the dead buck, staring off through sightless eyes.
. Been hunting?
Is that a, uh. He is indicating the staked area. Gar looks around at it, looks back at LARRY.
Is that a, uh. He is indicating the staked area. Gar looks around at it, looks back at LARRY.
Gonna be a den.
Uh-huh, that's great. Uh, Mr. Brandt- Gar barks at Mitch, who has lingered to listen to the grown-upsI said scrub up, Mitch! The child quickly goes. LARRY frowns.
Isn't this a school day?
Took him out of school today. So he could hunt with his He nods. . That's.. . nice. Gar stares at him with button eyes. Small talk is not his thing. LARRY clears his throat.
He nods. . That's.. . nice. Gar stares at him with button eyes. Small talk is not his thing. LARRY clears his throat.
Property line's the poplar.
Property line's the poplar.
. the. ?
. Well.. . even if it is, you're just about over it
. Well.. . even if it is, you're just about over it
We hear two pairs of pounding footsteps coming up the street.
I don't have to measure, you can tell it's.
Line's the poplar. He indicates. . It's all angles. Gar Brandt turns and goes. LARRY turns, reacting to the pounding footsteps. One of the two pairs belongs to DANNY who arrives, slowing to a walk, panting, a bookbag over his shoulder. A half-block back the pursuing boy also stops running. Husky, shaggy-haired, he watches, scowling, as DANNY goes up the walk to his house. LARRY addresses DANNY's retreating backWhat's going on?
IN THE HOUSE As LARRY enters. Judith 
Judith  Did you go to Sieglestein Schlutz? No, I-not yet.
Judith  Did you go to Sieglestein Schlutz? No, I-not yet.
I'm going to the hole.
At five o'clock? He looks out the front-door window. Four girls of SARAH's age are coming up the walk
We're stopping at Laurie Kipperstein's house so I can wash my hair. LARRY pulls open the door just as the doorbell rings. From the four dark girlsHi, Mr. Gopnik.
You can't wash it here? From somewhere in the house, Jefferson Airplane starts. As she brushes past LARRYUncle Arthur's in the bathroom.
Out in a minute! Judith enters.
Are you ready?
We're meeting Sy at Embers.
We're meeting Sy at Embers.
I am?
Both of us. I told you.
LARRY has his arms pinned at his sides by hugging Sy Ableman.
LARRY. How are you.
Hello Judith.
Hello Judith.
Hello Sy. Once Sy releases LARRY, all seat themselves at Sy's booth, Judith next to Sy, LARRY Thank you for coming, LARRY. It's so impawtant that we be able to discuss these things.
Thank you for coming, LARRY. It's so impawtant that we be able to discuss these things.
I'm happy to come to Embers, Sy, but, I'm thinking, really, maybe it's best to leave these discussions to the lawyers.
Of coss! Legal matters, let the lawyers discuss! Don't mix apples and oranges!
I've beamed you to see the lawyer.
I told you, I'm going Monday.
Monday is timely! This isn't-please!-Embers isn't the forum for legalities, you are so right!
No, Judith and I thought merely we should discuss the practicalities, the living arrangements, a situation that will conduce to the comfit of all the parties. This is an issue where no one is at odds. LARRY isn't sure where this is leadingNo, Judith and I thought merely we should discuss the practicalities, the living arrangements, a situation that will conduce to the comfit of all the parties. This is an issue where no one is at odds. LARRY isn't sure where this is leading. Living arrangements.
Absolutely. I think we all agree, the children not being contaminated by the tension-the most impawtant.
We shouldn't put the kids in the middle of this, LARRY.
The kids aren't-
I'm saying "we." I'm not pointing fingers.
No one is playing the "blame game," LARRY.
I didn't say anyone was!
Well let's not play He said, She said, either.
I wasn't! I. -
Aw right, well let's just step back, and defuse the situation,
Really, to keep things on an even keel, especially now, leading up to DANNY's bar mitzvah-
A child's bar mitzvah, LARRY!
Sy and I think it's best if you move out of the house.
. Move out?!
It makes eminent sense.
Things can't continue as they-
Move out! Where would I go?!
Well, for instance, the Jolly Roger is quite livable. Not expensive, and the rooms are eminently livable.
This would allow you to visit the kids.
There's convenience in its fava. There's a pool-
Wouldn't it make more sense for you to move in with Sy? Judith and Sy gape at him, shocked. After a long beatLARRY, you're jesting!
LARRY, you're jesting!
LARRY, you're jesting!
LARRY, there is much to accomplish before that can happen. Sy is sadly shaking his head.
LARRY, LARRY, LARRY. I think, really, the Jolly Roger is the appropriate coss of action. He shrugs. It has a pool.
Stop it!
Creep fucker!
Stop it! I'm getting it! I'm gonna get it! Wider shows that the brain is on television, which DANNY has muted while he plays the Cantor Youssele Rosenblatt record and drills his torah portion. He and SARAH are in a stand-off, hands tensed to either deliver or ward off blows.
LARRY enters.
What's going on?
She closes the door behind her.
What was that?
How's the haftorah coming? Can you maybe use the hi-fi?
How's the haftorah coming? Can you maybe use the hi-fi?
We hear the doorbell off. LARRY indicates the portable record Can I borrow this? I'm taking some stuff. To, you know, the Jolly Rodger.
Can I borrow this? I'm taking some stuff. To, you know, the Jolly Rodger.
Sure Dad. On TV, the handsome man shouts defiance at the brain. From off, SARAH projectsDad. Chinese guy.
A middle-aged Korean man, well groomed. He wears a nicely cut suit and a jeweled tie- Culcha clash. He bangs his two knuckles together, illustrating. . Culcha clash. He faces LARRY in the driveway. LARRY's car is half-loaded with open boxes that are haphazardly stuffed with clothing and effects. LARRY is leaning against the hood, arms folded, gazing at the man, unimpressed. A long Finally he bestirs himself.
Culcha clash. He bangs his two knuckles together, illustrating. . Culcha clash. He faces LARRY in the driveway. LARRY's car is half-loaded with open boxes that are haphazardly stuffed with clothing and effects. LARRY is leaning against the hood, arms folded, gazing at the man, unimpressed. A long Finally he bestirs himself.
With all respect, Mr. Park, I don't think it's that. Mr. Park No. It would be a culture clash if it were the custom in your land to bribe people for grades. Mr. Park So-you're saying it is the custom? Mr. Park No. This is defamation. Grounds for lawsuit.
No. It would be a culture clash if it were the custom in your land to bribe people for grades. Mr. Park So-you're saying it is the custom? Mr. Park No. This is defamation. Grounds for lawsuit.
So-you're saying it is the custom? Mr. Park No. This is defamation. Grounds for lawsuit.
You-let me get this straight-you're threatening to sue me for defaming your son? Mr. Park But it would- Gar Brandt Is this man bothering you. Gar Brandt stands on the strip of lawn separating the two neighbors. He is giving Mr. Park a hard stare.
But it would- Gar Brandt Is this man bothering you. Gar Brandt stands on the strip of lawn separating the two neighbors. He is giving Mr. Park a hard stare.
Is he bothering me? No. We're fine. Thank you, Mr. Gar Brandt, not entirely convinced, withdraws, glaring at the LARRY turns back to Mr. Park. . I, uh. . See, if it were defamation there would have to be someone I was defaming him to, or I. All right, I. let's keep it simple. I could pretend the money never appeared. That's not defaming anyone.
Mr. Park Yes. And passing grade.
Passing grade. Mr. Park Or you'll sue me. Mr. Park For taking money.
Or you'll sue me. Mr. Park For taking money.
So.. . he did leave the money. Mr. Park This is defamation. LARRY stares at him.
Look. It doesn't make sense. Either he left the money or he didn't Mr. Park Please. Accept mystery.
You can't have it both ways! If Mr. Park Why not. LARRY stares. We hear Sidor Belarsky music.
Sidor Belarsky's singing crosses the cut. The tone arm of DANNY's portable record player rides on a spinning LP. Wider shows LARRY grading bluebooks at a small formica table crowded into a corner of his motel room. It is a depressingly generic budget motel room of the mid-sixties with cheaply paneled walls, thin carpet, formica night tables, plastic lamps, and twin beds with stained nubby bedspreads. The phone rings.
He brightens. . Fine, Mimi, how are you?. Uh-huh. No, it's not that bad. It's not that bad. There's a pool. Arthur emerges from an alcove in the dim depth of the room that has a dressing-room mirror and apparently connects to the bathroom. He has a hand towel pressed to the back of his neck. . Oh sure, that sounds great. . . Oh, great, then I'll bring
The beachAbove the lake. The beach noise has some distance. It also has a faintly bizarre canyon echo. There is a present, sybillant shushing of breeze in the It is dark here with intense hot spots where sun sifts through the leaf cover. We are close on DANNY, who sits very still, leaning back against a tree trunk.
Gimme that fucker. DANNY passes the joint to Ronnie Nudell, who sits opposite.
On a woodless rise above the lake. Each of the separate picnic areas consist of a redwood table and benches placed next to a firepit. Here in the sun both LARRY and Mel Nudell, a man slightly older than LARRY, glisten with sweat. Mel, in the background, bounces a bag of charcoal briquettes to spill some into the firepit. LARRY sits at the table in the foreground with Mimi Nudell who alone seems unaffected by the heat-or by anything else in the physical environment. Her pale, gravely composed Giacometti face is shaded by a large-brimmed No. Almost a year and a half since Touche Ross let him go. He's very good with numbers. I think his, his social skills have held him back.
No. Almost a year and a half since Touche Ross let him go. He's very good with numbers. I think his, his social skills have held him back.
Such a sweet man though.
Arthur has a good heart. And he never complains, unlike me. Sometimes I don't give him enough credit.
He tried to tell me about this thing he's working on, this, The Mentaculus? He says it's a, uh. a probability map. Of the universe. He asked if I could help him publish it. Um, it was a little hard for me to evaluate.
The Mentaculus? He says it's a, uh. a probability map. Of the universe. He asked if I could help him publish it. Um, it was a little hard for me to evaluate.
Does he go out socially at all?
He tries. He's been going to the singles mixers at Hillel House.-Well, I should talk, I'm not doing any better.
How is Judith?
Fine. She's fine. I'm the odd man out. Mimi smiles.
Sometimes these things just aren't meant to be. And it can take a while before you feel what was always there, for better or worse.
I never felt it! It was a bolt from the blue! What does that mean! Everything that I thought was one way turns out to be another!
Then-it's an opportunity to learn how things really are. LARRY broods. Mimi softens. . I'm sorry-I don't mean to sound glib. It's not always easy, deciphering what God is trying to tell you.
I'll say.
But it's not something you have to figure out all by your- self. We're Jews, we have that well of tradition to draw on, to help us understand. When we're puzzled we have all the
I guess.
Have you talked to Rabbi Nachtner? Arthur is climbing the hill from the lake, dripping wet. He projectsBoy! The air out here is magnificent! Mimi, looking at LARRY, responds to his dark silenceWhy not see him? Mel Nudell has finished spreading and lighting the coals. He now comes and sits next to Mimi, draping an arm over her shoulder. She strokes his hand, still looking at LARRY.
What's the rabbi gonna tell me?
If I knew I'd be the rabbi. He looks at her glumly. She laughs. . Life is beautiful, LARRY. Nobody's sick. Nobody died. You just need help remembering how to enjoy it. She rests her head against Mel's shoulder. . Where are the kids?
Woods. Exploring. Uncle Arthur approaches, swim trunks plastered to his thighs, hair dripping, one hand
If somebody could bottle this air they'd make a million A white title comes upOh-Rabbi Scott. Rabbi Scott Ginzler is the junior rabbi, a man in his twenties. Rabbi Scott Hello LARRY.
I thought I was going to see Rabbi Nachtner. Rabbi Scott He was called away on an etz monimAnd she wants a Gett. A long silence. The hum of ventilation. At lengthShe wants a- Rabbi Scott Oh, a Gett. Uh-huh, sure.
I feel like the carpet's been yanked out from under me. I don't know which end is up. I'm not even sure how to react; I'm too confused. Rabbi Scott What reasons did she give? For the rupture?
She didn't give-reasons. Just that, oh, you know, things haven't been going well. Rabbi Scott And is that true?
I guess. I don't know. She's usually right about these Rabbi Scott I feel so. addled. Rabbi Scott Yes, I can see.
I feel so. addled. Rabbi Scott Yes, I can see.
I was hoping that. Rabbi Nachtner. Rabbi Scott That he would. yes?
Well, with the benefit of his life experience. no
Rabbi Scott Because with the right perspective you can see Hashem, you know, reaching into the world. He is in the world, not just in shul. It souunds to me like you're looking at the world, looking at your wife, through tired eyes. It sounds like she's become a sort of. thing. a problem. a Well, she's, she's seeing Sy Ableman.
Well, she's, she's seeing Sy Ableman.
She's, they're planning, that's why they want the Gett. Rabbi Scott Oh. I'm sorry.
It was his idea. Rabbi Scott Well, they do need a Gett to remarry in the faith. But this is life. For you too. You can't cut yourself off from the mystical or you'll be-you'll remain-completely lost. You have to see these things as expressions of God's will. You don't have to like it, of course.
The boss isn't always right, but he's always the boss. Rabbi Scott Ha-ha-ha! That's right, things aren't so bad. Look at the parking lot, LARRY. Rabbi Scott gazes out, marveling. . Just look at that parking lot.
We hear the front door being flung open and slammed shut, and in the background foyer DANNY appears, panting heavily. He gives one glance back toward the front door and then looks at his mother and sister eating soup in the foreground. His sister has a towel wrapped turbanlike around her head. She holds it with one hand to keep it from tipping off when she tilts her head down for the soup.
We eating already?
I'm going to the hole. DANNY enters the kitchen and sits at the setting across from his sister. He picks up his Some movement in SARAH's body; DANNY recoils from a kick.
Ow! Cut it out!
What's going on? The siblings slurp soup, neither answering. After a couple slurpsHe's at the Jolly Roger.
Oh yeah. More eating.
SIEGLESTEIN, SCHLUTZ In a small windowless conference room lined by bookshelves filled with law reference books, LARRY rises to greet Don Milgram, entering.
In a small windowless conference room lined by bookshelves filled with law reference books, LARRY rises to greet Don Milgram, entering.
How are you, LARRY, Jesus, I am so sorry to be seeing you under these circumstances.
How are you, LARRY, Jesus, I am so sorry to be seeing you under these circumstances.
Oh, well.
I always thought you and JUDY were rock solid. This is so terrible, LARRY. This is devastating.
Well, the way I look at it, it's an opportunity for me to really sit down and figure things out, and, and, look at the world afresh instead of just, you know, settling for the routine, tired old way of looking at things. Don Milgram stares at him.
. Really?
I don't know. Maybe not.
Well, legally, I have to warn you, it's never easy for the husband. Unless, of course, there's some question of the wife having violated the marriage contract.
Oh no, nothing like that. She's planning to marry Sy Ableman, but they-
Sy Ableman!
Yes, but they-
Esther is barely cold!
She passed three years ago.
Well, okay, still-this changes the complexion, LARRY! Sy Not in the sense that. there hasn't been hanky-panky. To my knowledge.
Not in the sense that. there hasn't been hanky-panky. To my knowledge.
No. I'm fairly certain this is not an issue. And in fact they, uh, Judith wants a Gett. Beat. Don stares blankly at LARRY. LARRY clears his throat. A ritual divorce.
No. I'm fairly certain this is not an issue. And in fact they, uh, Judith wants a Gett. Beat. Don stares blankly at LARRY. LARRY clears his throat. A ritual divorce.
So that they can remarry in the faith-
So that they can remarry in the faith-
Uh-huh, sure, not really a legal matter. Okay. Well. My goodness. How are the children taking it?
Oh, they're very. He gropes. . resilient.
Good. Well. On the other thing, the neighbor's property line, I've asked Solomon Schlutz to take a look. There's very little having to do with real estate that'll get by Sol.
Okay. Good. How do you-I guess I'm a little worried, how do you, I have money pressures and-
Our fee structure? We bill by the hour. Dave Sieglestein and Solomon Schlutz bill at a hundred and ten, the associ- ates, me for instance, bill at A secretary sticks her head in.
A call for Mr. Gopnik. DANNY. At home.
DANNY? ! You can take it here.
You can take it here.
You can take it here.
LARRY punches a button on a row of four on the conference-room DANNY? ! Are you all right? Are you all-is everything-
DANNY? ! Are you all right? Are you all-is everything-
Are you all right? Are you all-is everything-
Are you all right? Are you all-is everything-
Are you all right? Are you all-is everything-
F Troop is fuzzy.
. What?
F Troop is still fuzzy. LARRY stares.
Everything okay?
LARRY is driving, hollow-eyed, to work. After a long beat of staring, the ka-ching of a bicycle bell.
He starts frantically pumping down his window, shoutingHe starts frantically pumping down his window, shoutingLARRY enters the outer office, hugging his paper-stuffed briefcase to his chest. The secretary is just crooking the phone into her shoulder.
Oh-Professor Gopnik. It's Dick Dutton again.
Dick Dutton.
He sits in and picks up the phone.
Hello, Mr. Gopnik, this is Dick Dutton from the Columbia Record Club. I'm calling because it is now, what, four months and we have yet to receive your first payment.
Hello, Mr. Gopnik, this is Dick Dutton from the Columbia Record Club. I'm calling because it is now, what, four months and we have yet to receive your first payment.
I-there's some mistake. I'm not a member of the Columbian Record Club.
Sir, you are Lawrence Gopnik of 1425 Flag Avenue South?
No, I live at the Jolly Roger.
Excuse me?
No, I-well, yes, okay.
Yes you are Lawrence Gopnik?
Okay means.
Okay means.
Okay, yes, Lawrence Gopnik, yes.
Okay, well, you received your twelve introductory albums and you have been receiving the monthly main selection for four months now-
"The monthly main selection?" Is that a record? I didn't
To receive the monthly main selection you do nothing.
That's right! I haven't done anything!
Yes, that's why you receive the monthly main selection. The last
But I-
The last one was Santana Abraxis. You-
I didn't ask for Santana Abraxis!
You request the main selection at the retail price by doing nothing. It is automatically mailed to you. Plus shipping and handling. You're about to-
I can't afford a new record every month! I haven't asked
You're about to get Cosmo's Factory, sir. The June main selection. And you haven't-
Look, something is very wrong! I don't want Santana Abraxis! I've just been in a terrible auto accident! I'm sorry sir.
I'm sorry sir.
Well-thank you. But I-
Are you okay?
Yes. Yes, no one was hurt.
Okay. Good. Well, you had fourteen days to listen to Santana Abraxis and return it if you weren't completely satisfied. You did nothing. And now you-
I didn't ask for Santana Abraxis! I didn't listen to Santana Abraxis! I didn't do anything! The secretary is sticking her head in.
Sir. Please. We can't make you listen to the record. We-
Sir. Please. We can't make you listen to the record. We-
Professor Gopnik, your son. He said it's urgent.
Okay, look, I have to call you back, this is, this is I'm He irritably punches a button on the bottom row of four.
Did you join the Columbia Record Club?!
Did you join the Columbia Record Club?!
Did you join the Columbia Record Club?!
DANNY, this is completely unacceptable. I can't afford to-
DANNY, this is completely unacceptable. I can't afford to-
DANNY, this is completely unacceptable. I can't afford to-
Okay Dad, but you gotta come home.
Is it F Troop?
Huh? No no. Mom's real upset.
LARRY enters. We can hear weeping, semi-hysterical, from somewhere in the house. SARAH's Voice She enters.
She enters.
Does this mean I can't go to the hole tonight?
Does what mean-what happened?
Sy Ableman died in a car crash. DANNY's Voice
DANNY enters.
So are you coming back home? Can you fix the aerial? The weeping, off, grows louder and more hysterical.
It's still, you know. Loud wailing.
It's still, you know. Loud wailing.
After a beat in black, a white titleWe are close on LARRY. He sits hunched forward, hands clasped in front of him, staring at the floor, sadly shaking his head. After a long beatIt seems like she's asking an awful lot. But then-I don't know. Somebody has to pay for Sy's funeral. Rabbi Nachtner, sitting opposite, nods. Rabbi Nachtner
His own estate is in probate. But why does it have to be me? Or is it wrong to complain? JUDY says it is. But I'm so strapped for cash right now-paying for the Jolly Roger, and I wrecked the car, and DANNY's bar mitzvah. I. Rabbi Nachtner Something like this-there's never a good time.
I don't know where it all leaves me. Sy's death. Obviously it's not going to go back like it was. Rabbi Nachtner Mm. Would you even want that, LARRY?
No, I-well yeah! Sometimes! Or-I don't know; I guess the honest answer is I don't know. What was my life before? Not what I thought it was. What does it all mean? What is Hashem trying to tell me, making me pay for Sy Ableman's funeral? Rabbi Nachtner And-did I tell you I had a car accident the same time Sy had his? The same instant, for all I know. Is Hashem telling me that Sy Ableman is me, or we are all one or Rabbi Nachtner How does God speak to usAnd-did I tell you I had a car accident the same time Sy had his? The same instant, for all I know. Is Hashem telling me that Sy Ableman is me, or we are all one or Rabbi Nachtner How does God speak to usDOCTOR Sussman? I think I-yeah. Rabbi Nachtner Did he ever tell you about the goy's teeth?
No. I-What goy? Rabbi Nachtner So Lee is at work one day; you know he has the orthodontic practice there at Texa-Tonka.
Rabbi Nachtner Right next to the Gold Eagle Cleaners. We cut toStaring at the Rabbi. He waits a good beat. He promptsSo what did you tell him? The Rabbi seems surprised by the question. Rabbi Nachtner Rabbi Nachtner Is it. . relevant?
Rabbi Nachtner Is it. . relevant?
Well-isn't that why you're telling me? Rabbi Nachtner Mm. Okay. Nachtner says, look.. . We are back in the scene, narrated by voice-over, of the Rabbi silently advising the fretful Sussman. . The teeth, we don't know. A sign from Hashem, don't know. Helping others, couldn't hurt. LARRY's voice-over question plays over Sussman asking the same LARRY  But is that what it meant?-tet resh nun lamed nun shin isayin, was it "Help me"? or a number? Or was it Rabbi Nachtner  We can't know everything. Sussman stares blankly at the Rabbi. A beat. LARRY  It sounds like you don't know Mthing!
Smiling equably at LARRY. He reacts to the ejaculation with a LARRY scowls.
Why even tell me the story? Rabbi Nachtner
What happened to Sussman?
In his office. Working on different patients as the Rabbi resumes his voice-over. Rabbi Nachtner What would happen? Not much. He went back to work. For a while he checked every patient's teeth for new messages; didn't see any; in time, he found he'd stopped Sussman, at home, chats with his wife over dinner. . These questions that are bothering you, LARRY-maybe they're like a toothache. We feel them for a while, then they go away. Sussman lies in bed sleeping, smiling, an arm thrown across his I don't want it to just go away! I want an answer! Rabbi Nachtner The answer! Sure! We all want the answer! But Hashem doesn't owe us the answer, LARRY. Hashem doesn't owe us anything. The obligation runs the other way.
I don't want it to just go away! I want an answer! Rabbi Nachtner The answer! Sure! We all want the answer! But Hashem doesn't owe us the answer, LARRY. Hashem doesn't owe us anything. The obligation runs the other way.
I don't want it to just go away! I want an answer! Rabbi Nachtner The answer! Sure! We all want the answer! But Hashem doesn't owe us the answer, LARRY. Hashem doesn't owe us anything. The obligation runs the other way.
Why does he make us feel the questions if he's not gonna give us any answers? Rabbi Nachtner smiles at LARRY for a beat.
And what happened to the goy? Rabbi Nachtner's forebearing smile fades into puzzlement. Rabbi Nachtner The goy? Who cares?
Sy Ableman was a serious man!
In close-up he gazes around, weighing the effect of the words just delivered. After a long beat during which he seeks to establish eye contact with as much of his audience as possibleArthur Gopnik? LARRY is momentarily dumb. Inside the house we can see a corner of a card table set up in the living room with food laid out on it. SARAH sits with her back to us, head wrapped by a towel-turban. Arthur, on the far side of the table, his balding head domed by a yarmul- ka, half-leans out so that he may sneak looks toward the men at the door without totally revealing himself. From somewhere down the hall come Judith's muffled sobs. . Are you Arthur Gopnik?
I'm. Laurence Gopnik. Cop I Do you go by the name Arthur Gopnik?
COP 1 Is that Arthur Gopnik? Arthur ducks away. From inside the living roomIs that Arthur Gopnik? Arthur ducks away. From inside the living roomCan you tell me what's going on. We're sitting shiva here.
You're what.
A religious observance. We're. bereaved. The cop standing behind gazes in over his partner's shoulder.
Who died?
My wife's um. it's a long story.
Look. Tell Gopnik-you know, Arthur Gopnik-he's breaking the law. We're not arresting him now but next time we will. Gambling is against the law in this state. That's just the way it is. All right. Go back to your.
Sorry, sir.
A minute later. The family-except for Judith, whose weeping continues around the card table. A long beat. At lengthDad, we get Channel 4 now but not Channel 7.
Arthur, how could you do that to this family. On Sy's. on Sy's-
It's a victimless crime.
That doesn't make it right! And you-
He won a lot of money, Dad! The Mentaculus really LARRY's gaze swings onto his son.
You knew about it?!
Well, um.
They must have finked me out. They knew I could just keep on winning, so a couple weeks ago they blackballed me, and now they've-
What did you do with the money you won? Silence. Arthur sneaks a look at DANNY. LARRY looks back and forth between them. . What's going on? Arthur shrugs.
I didn't want it. DANNY said he could use it
What have you been-
What have you been-
What's unfair is these guys saying I can't play in their card Why give him the money?! You know what he spends it  I know about the records.
Why give him the money?! You know what he spends it  I know about the records.
I know about the records.
Records?! You think he buys records from Mike Fagle? Movement in DANNY's body; SARAH recoils from a kick. . Ow! Little brat!
Hey! What's going on!
At least I'm not saving up for a nose job!
Nobody in this house is getting a nose job! You got that?!
Nobody in this house is getting a nose job! You got that?!
Nobody in this house is getting a nose job! You got that?!
Struck by a thought he leaps up and bolts from the room.
DANNY! You weren't excused! We're still talking!
What a brat.
What was this card game, Arthur?
Some goys run a private game. We hear the TV go on down the hall and the theme from F Troop. I think they're Italians.
DANNY, what's going on! He rises.
LARRY enters to look down at DANNY's back. Beyond him F Troop flickers on the TV.
DANNY! We're sitting Shiva!
She's retained Barney Silver at Tuchman, Marsh. This is a, uhthis is an aggressive firm, LARRY.
These are not pleasant people. Judith is free of course to retain whoever she. I take it you don't talk to her? LARRY raises his head, squinting against the light.
These are not pleasant people. Judith is free of course to retain whoever she. I take it you don't talk to her? LARRY raises his head, squinting against the light.
It's hard. I think she emptied our bank account. I tried to ask her about it, very civilly.
She, uh.
She, uh.
Yeah, yeah you better open an account in your name only, put your paychecks in there from here on out. Til we know where we stand.
Can I?
Oh, absolutely!
That's not, um, dishonest?
Oh, absolutely! You, uh-
I hate to say this, but I think she's also been sneaking cash out of my wallet.
Ouch. Well, yes, this is definitely, um, adversarial. The
Just a sunburn. I've been spending a lot of time on the roof. For. perspective. He trails off and his head drops back down onto his arms. Don gives him an appraising . Have you seen the Rabbi?
. Have you seen the Rabbi?
Talked to Nachtner.
You should talk to Minda.
They told me Minda doesn't do pastoral work any more. Just.. . ceremonial.
Mm. Congratulates the bar mitzvah boy every week, so LARRY nods miserably. . That's too bad. A very wise man, Minda. LARRY raises his head.
Getting old.
Very old.
No, me.
LARRY, you're fine. It's a bump in the road. Was Nachtner helpful at all? LARRY gives a helpless shrug. Don rolls his eyes. . What-did he tell you about the goy's teeth? A knock on the door. Don projectsSolomon Schlutz's face now passes from the red end of the spectrum to the purple. Solomon Schlutz The pipe clatters out of his hand. The hand grabs at his own shirt front. . Glufffl. Now his head pitches back. His backflung weight and twisting body send his chair tipping over, one hand still clutching at his chest while the other frantically waves. He disappears behind the conference table and lands with a floor-shaking thump. His writhing and gurgling remain audible.
Sol! Sol! Don Milgram has risen to look down at his fallen colleague; now he flings open the conference room door and bellows into the officeA secretary looks in and screams. Solomon Schlutz Garf!. Nnlogl.
LARRY walks into the outer office clutching his briefcase, eyes wide, shell-shocked. The secretary is at her typewriter but holding the phone, one hand covering its mouthpiece.
Dick Dutton. Columbia Record Club.
Call back.
LARRY sits in heavily behind his desk. A beat. He opens the top left desk drawer. He withdraws the bulging white envelope and opens its flap. He runs a finger over the wad of bills.
He looks up, startled. Arlen Finkle stands in the doorway. . As you know, the tenure committee meets-are you all LARRY sits frozen with the white envelope in his hands.
He looks up, startled. Arlen Finkle stands in the doorway. . As you know, the tenure committee meets-are you all LARRY sits frozen with the white envelope in his hands.
I'm. fine. Arlen Finkle I'm sorry. I know you've hit a rough patch.
Thank you. I'm fine. He puts the envelope in the desk drawer and closes it.
Arlen, I am not an evil man! Arlen looks at him, shocked. Arlen Finkle LARRY! Of course not!
I am not- Arlen Finkle We don't make moral judgments!
I went to the Aster Art once. I saw Swedish Reverie. Arlen Finkle It's okay, LARRY, we don't need to know! The Tenure
It wasn't even erotic! Although it was, in a way. Arlen Finkle It's all right, LARRY. Believe me. LARRY calms somewhat.
. Okay. Arlen Finkle Okay. Okay. We, uh, we decide on Wednesday, so if there's anything you want to submit in support of your tenure application, we should have it by then. That's all.
Submit. What. What do you- Arlen Finkle Well. Anything. Published work. Anything else you've done outside of the institution. Any work that we might not be aware of.
I haven't done anything. Arlen Finkle I haven't published. Arlen Finkle Are you still getting those letters? Arlen Finkle Those anonymous- Arlen Finkle Yes, I know. Yes. A beat. LARRY nods.
I haven't published. Arlen Finkle Are you still getting those letters? Arlen Finkle Those anonymous- Arlen Finkle Yes, I know. Yes. A beat. LARRY nods.
Are you still getting those letters? Arlen Finkle Those anonymous- Arlen Finkle Yes, I know. Yes. A beat. LARRY nods.
Those anonymous- Arlen Finkle Yes, I know. Yes. A beat. LARRY nods.
Okay. Okay. Wednesday. Arlen Finkle Okay. Don't worry. Doing nothing is not bad. Ipso facto.
We are close over LARRY's shoulder as he scribbles symbols onto the chalkboard.
We are close over LARRY's shoulder as he scribbles symbols onto the chalkboard.
. and that means. so that. from which we derive. His glances back toward the class show that he is wearier, baggier-eyed, more haggard than ever. There is also something odd about his posture. He writes smaller and smaller so as to finish before hitting the right edge of the . and also.. which lets us. and. Wider as he finishes and straightens up, revealing that he has been stooping to write across the very bottom of the board. The equation covers every inch of the classroom-wide three-paneled chalkboard. LARRY is an off balance figure at the right edge of frame. Reverse on the classWell, it might be that, in, you know, in L'olam ha-bah- Sy Ableman Excuse me. Not the issue. In this world, LARRY. He nods at the chalkboard. . I'll concede that it's subtle. It's clevva. But at the end of the day, is it convincing?
Well-yes it's convincing. It's a proof. It's mathematics. Sy Ableman Excuse me, LARRY. Mathematics. Is the art of the possible. LARRY's brow furrows.
I don't think so. The art of the possible, that's. I can't remember. something else. Sy Ableman I'm a serious man, LARRY.
I know that. So if I've got it wrong, what do I- Sy Ableman holds up one hand to silence him. Sy Ableman So simple, LARRY. See Minda.
I know, I want to see Minda! I want to see Minda! They told me that oonh! Without our having seen him rise or cross the room Sy Ableman has body-slammed LARRY into the chalkboard. Now he grabs LARRY by the hair and whips his head against the equation. As he slams LARRY's head, again and again, the chalkboard chatters and the fringes on Sy's tallis dance. Sy Ableman See Minda! See Minda! I fucked your wife, LARRY! I seriously fucked her! That's what's going on! See Minda!
Very close on his eyes as they open. His head is on a pillow. Dull early light. A hissing LARRY looks blearily over. On the vanity table just outside the motel bathroom door sits Uncle Arthur's cyst evacuator. Its waggling hose snakes into the cracked bathroom door as the machine On a doorpost. A hand enters to knock. A long beat. The person knocking gives up and his footsteps start to go away just as the door opens to reveal an attractive woman the sunbathing neighbor, now wearing plaid shorts and a buttoned white blouse. Her point-of-viewOn a doorpost. A hand enters to knock. A long beat. The person knocking gives up and his footsteps start to go away just as the door opens to reveal an attractive woman the sunbathing neighbor, now wearing plaid shorts and a buttoned white blouse. Her point-of-viewMr. Gopnik.
Oh. Hello, Mrs. Samsky. I knocked, and then thought you weren't here. I, uh. Mrs. Samsky's voice is soft and breathyNo, I- One hand on the door, she steps back. Mrs. Samsky It's cooler.
Oh. Okay. I just wanted to let you know. He is entering.
After the outside glare the house does indeed seem cooler. LARRY looks around the living room, dim but neat. Wavering light sifts through closed vertical blinds which drift and click over floor-vented air-conditioning. Mrs. Samsky closes the door, shutting out all sound from outside.
I've noticed that Mr. Samsky isn't around, and I- Mrs. Samsky He travels.
Uh-huh. Yeah, I never seem to see him, so I thought I should let you know, since you're somewhat new here, if you ever have, whatever, chores that you'd, um, or just help with something-I've decided to help others-you know, in a neighborly way. She gazes at him with the least hint of a smile and waits for the speech to dribble away to silence. In the ensuing beat, quiet except for the clicking of the blinds, she is perfectly still. Finally, only her mouth movesOh it's nothing. It's just good to know your neighbors. And to help. Help others. Although I don't care much for my neighbors on the other side, I must say. Mrs. Samsky lets another smiling silence pass before responding. Mrs. Samsky . Goys, aren't they?
Mm. Very much so. Maybe it's not fair to judge; I have to admit I- Mrs. Samsky Won't you sit down?
Oh! Um. Okay. Thank you. Mrs. Samsky Iced tea? I have some. She is already turning to the kitchen.
Okay.. . He watches her and reacts toYes. Actually I haven't been home a lot recently, I, uh, my wife and I are, uh, well, she's got me staying at the Jolly Roger, the little motel there on- Mrs. Samsky is reentering with two tall glasses of iced tea beaded with moisture. The click of the ice cubes joins the clicking of the blinds. Mrs. Samsky You're in the doghouse, huh? She hands him a glass as she sits on the couch next to him, not invasively close, one bare leg folded onto the couch, the other draped over it.
Yeah, that's an understatement I guess, I -thank you-I,
. What do you mean. Her look holds for one more beat and then she swivels and opens the drawer of an end She turns back with a joint. Mrs. Samsky It's something I do. For recreation. She lights it.
That's. Marijuana? Mrs. Samsky She hands the joint over. . You'll find you'll need the iced tea. LARRY handles the bitty cigarette with trepidation.
Is it. . well.. . okay.
Maybe Rabbi Scott was right. Mrs. Samsky Who's Rabbi Scott?
The junior rabbi. Mrs. Samsky The junior rabbi.
He spoke of.. perception. All my problems are just. just a. a mere.. He trails off, listening. . Is that a siren? Mrs. Samsky No. Some people get a little paranoid when they. Holy cow. That is a siren.
The Samsky's door opens and LARRY stumbles out. He stares. The police car has stopped in front of his own house next door, lights still flashing. Two cops are going up the walk with Uncle Arthur between them in LARRY, stunned, walks woodenly toward his house.
Neither the cops nor Uncle Arthur has heard. They have rung the doorbell and now disappear inside. LARRY projects louder-
-and starts to sprint. Mrs. Samsky has emerged from her house LARRY takes the stoop steps two at a time. His door stands open and the theme from F
Sort of. He sleeps on the couch.
This is crazy! This brings the cops' look around. Uncle Arthur also turns, shamefaced, to LARRY.
Does this man live here?
I didn't know what to tell them! They asked for my address.. .
It's just mathematics! You can't arrest a man for I didn't know whether to say I lived here or at the Jolly You know this man?
I didn't know whether to say I lived here or at the Jolly You know this man?
You know this man?
I figured this would sound more. I don't know. Mrs. Samsky appears behind LARRY on the stoop.
Dad, why is Uncle Arthur in handcuffs?
It's all a mistake. I mean, not a mistake, a, a-
Hello, Mrs. Samsky.
-a miscarriage-
Does this man live here?
He sleeps on the couch.
Look! What did he do!
Nothing! I didn't do anything!
It folds out. Dad sleeps on a cot.
You can't just-
Sir, we picked this man up at the North Dakota. LARRY is brought up short.
The North Dakota!
But I didn't do anything!
Dad, what's the North Dakota?
Solicitation. Sodomy. Very serious.
. The North Dakota! We hold on LARRY's shocked reaction as we hear DANNY, offWhat's Sodomy, Dad?
He wears a black armband. He sits thinking, bouncing steepled fingers against his nose.
What does Arthur say?
He says he didn't do anything.
He says. . . he just went in for a drink.
He says. . . he just went in for a drink.
Long beat. . Does Arthur drink?
. He says he was confused.
. He says he was confused.
. He says he was confused.
Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Well. The North Dakota. Well. You'll need a criminal attorney.
Okay. Who's-
Ron Meshbesher.
Is he good?
Ron is very good. LARRY's gaze wanders. He becomes wistful.
I don't understand. He goes to mixers at the Hillel House.
A beat. . I would call Ron Meshbesher.
Is he expensive?
Ron is not cheap. Don focuses on LARRY. Cheerful change of subjectThis week.
This shabbas! Great! He nods. . It'll be okay. Try to relax, LARRY. Try to relax.
Oh my God, Mrs. Samsky. Beyond her head LARRY can see the low cottage-cheese ceiling of the bedroom. Outside we can hear Gar Brandt mowing the lawn. Suddenly we hear muffled laughter and the front door opening. LARRY panics. He hissesHe stands looking down in low shot. Above him is cheap Johnson-Armstrong Please. I need help. I've already talked to the other rabbis. Reverse shows an elderly eastern European woman seated behind a desk, looking up at
He stands looking down in low shot. Above him is cheap Johnson-Armstrong Please. I need help. I've already talked to the other rabbis. Reverse shows an elderly eastern European woman seated behind a desk, looking up at
Please. I need help. I've already talked to the other rabbis. Reverse shows an elderly eastern European woman seated behind a desk, looking up at
The rabbi is busy.
He didn't look busy! As she starts shuffling papersHe's thinking.
Sidor Belarsky comes in at the cut.
Arthur. ? Arthur? Arthur is a dim mound on the next bed. His weeping continues. For no reason LARRY continues to keep his voice to a whisperShockingy loud, the scream is hard to interpret. Arthur flings off his bedclothes. He leaps from the bed and runs to the door. In boxer shorts and undershirt he flings the door open and runs out of the room.
Shockingy loud, the scream is hard to interpret. Arthur flings off his bedclothes. He leaps from the bed and runs to the door. In boxer shorts and undershirt he flings the door open and runs out of the room.
LARRY leaps from his bed, also in his underwear. He goes to the door but pauses, peering cautiously outside. Satisfied that the courtyard is deserted, he plunges into it.
The courtyard/parking lot is hardlit by ghastly mercury vapor lights. The pool, surrounded by chain-link fence, has been drained. Its white concrete interior is cracked
He opens the creaking gate and scurries over to Arthur. . You've got to pull yourself together! Arthur is suddenly angry. His voice bounces off the concreteIt's all shit, LARRY! It's all shit!
Arthur. Don't use that word.
It's all fucking shit!
Arthur! Come on!
Look at everything Hashem has given you! And what do I get! I get fucking shit!
Arthur. What do I have. I live at the Jolly Roger.
You've got a family. You've got a job. Hashem hasn't given me bupkes.
It's not fair to blame Hashem, Arthur. Please. Sometimes -please calm down-sometimes you have to help your- Don't blame me! You fucker!
Don't blame me! You fucker!
Arthur. Please.
Hashem hasn't given me shit. Now I can't even play cards. He starts weeping again. LARRY looks around.
Arthur. This isn't the right forum. Please. Not by the Arthur weeps. Arthur. It's okay. It's okay.
LARRY and Arthur are driving. We are looking at the two of them square through a windshield in which towering conifers stream by in reflection. It seems to be a glorious Is this it? Both men peer out.
Is this it? Both men peer out.
I think so. yeah. there. He indicates the road ahead.
The old-fashioned kind with wooden fingers pointing the different One points toward CANADA.
Beautiful, wooded, remote. The car is parked at water's edge, having backed down a lane of two tracks worn through the undergrowth. LARRY and Arthur are lowering the canoe into water.
Okay.. . He straightens. Arthur straightens. LARRY hugs him. They separate and LARRY pulls a white envelope from his pocket and gives it to Arthur. . This'll help you get back on your feet. Arthur looks into the envelope.
Oh my God. Where did you get this?
Doesn't matter. When you-
This is a lot of money!
It should get you started.
This is a lot of money! Are you sure you don't need it?
Arthur, I'm fine. Come on, get in. When you're settled.
Are you sure this is okay?
It's fine. It's fine. LARRY waves. Arthur waves bravely back, then turns to pick up the oars. A couple of strokes and he turns back again with a last thought. He callsLARRY. I'm sorry. What I said last night.
I know. It's okay. A lingering look from Arthur, and then he turns back to row. A gunshot. Blood spurts from the back of Uncle Arthur's neck. He slumps forward, dead.
Good shot! LARRY looks wildly around. He seesGasping awake in the motel room. He looks around. It is dawn. Arthur sits on the edge of his bed in his underwear, staring off into space, slackjawed, vacant-eyed, drained. LARRY gazes around the room, waiting for things to fall into Finally, blearilyWere we. out at the pool last night? Arthur, still staring off, responds in a flat, empty voiceYes. I'm sorry. LARRY blinks sleep away. After a beatIt's shabbas. Another beat. Arthur heaves a deep sigh.
I'll go drain my cyst.
Day. A two-urinal, two-stall men's room of old tile and yellowed We are low. One of the stall doors is closed. Under it we see the dress shoes and dress pants of two young men standing inside. We hear a long sucking inhale. Ronnie Nudell's Voice Gimme that fucker. A loudly projected echoing male voiceYa'amod hab'rayshit.
DANNY, seated in the second pew next to his parents and sister and Uncle Arthur, rises and shuffles along the row to the aisle. His eyes are wide and The prelapped voice was his call to the torah. All eyes in the congregation, which fills the large sanctuary, are on him. In great echoing silence he walks to the steps on the right side of the bema and climbs. The right-side lectern is surrounded by a gaggle of old Jewish men. They busy themselves with the preparation of the pair of scrolls on the lectern, rolling them, pausing, rolling some more, muttering prayers, kissing the scrolls by means of their tsitsim. They pay DANNY no attention. DANNY takes his place centered behind the lectern. His chin comes up to the bottom of the reading platform. Men continue to mutter prayers around him. A pair of hands appear on his shoulders from behind. DANNY looks down at the strange hands. They pull him back. A foot drags a small riser out from under the lectern. Hands push DANNY up onto the riser.
Nefesh echad sheichayim, yitzeh gamor shel effashot. DANNY is still staring at the end of the yad against the parchment Someone's hand enters and moves the yad to a different place in the text. The voice repeatsNefesh echad shelchayim, yitzeh gamor shel effashot. .
DANNY continues to boom out the torah portion. He moves the yad along the line of In the congregation, LARRY and Judith watch. We hear DANNY chanting fluently and LARRY squeezes the hand Judith has laced through his arm. Juith whispersI'm sorry that. things have been so hard for us.
It's okay.
Sy had so much respect for you, LARRY. He pats her hand. A beat. . He wrote letters to the tenure committee.
The congregation is loudly singing V'Zos Hatorah. A tallised man of late middle age
Jesus Christ.. .
DANNY stands behind the left lectern facing Rabbi Nachtner who holds a small kiddush cup out to him. Although Rabbi Nachtner seems to be addressing DANNY, he is projecting . taking your place as a member of our tribe. You will go and see Rabbi Minda after the service. You will cele- brate in a reception downstairs in Schanfield Hall. And then you will be a member of B'Nai Abraham and of the Nation of Israel. DANNY Gopnik, the Sisterhood makes a gift to you of this kiddush cup so that you will remember this blessed day on the next shabbas and the next, and on every shabbas of a long and fruitful life, and, until that wonderful day when you stand under the chupa, we say.. .
. taking your place as a member of our tribe. You will go and see Rabbi Minda after the service. You will cele- brate in a reception downstairs in Schanfield Hall. And then you will be a member of B'Nai Abraham and of the Nation of Israel. DANNY Gopnik, the Sisterhood makes a gift to you of this kiddush cup so that you will remember this blessed day on the next shabbas and the next, and on every shabbas of a long and fruitful life, and, until that wonderful day when you stand under the chupa, we say.. .
DANNY, still red-eyed, tries to focus. His point-of-view shows the kiddush cup large in the foreground, extended toward him by the Rabbi beaming above. His own hand rises into frame to grasp the kiddush cup. The congregation starts Adon Olam.
Creaking open. The cut has snapped off the robust Adon Olam, leaving sepulchral quiet. DANNY, clutching his kiddush cup, hesitantly enters the dim study. Minda's elderly eastern European gatekeeper closes the door behind him. Minda is an old man staring at him from behind a bare desktop. His look, eyes magnified by thick glasses, is impossible to read. DANNY creeps to the chair facing the desk. He gingerly sits on the squeaking leather upholstery, self-conscious under Minda's stare. Minda breathes regularly through his mouth. It is the only sound in the room. A long beat. The two sit face to face. Minda smacks his lips a couple of times, preparing to speak. Another beat.
When the truth is found. To be lies. He pauses. He clears his throat. At lengthLARRY is at his desk sorting through mail. Arlen Finkle ( off DANNY was magnificent. LARRY looks upOh. Thank you, Arlen. Arlen Finkle Mazel tov. It was wonderful.
Yes it was. Thank you. Arlen Finkle Such a time of nachas, LARRY. He's your youngest. You have to savor it.
I do. I will. Arlen Finkle See you at the staff caf.
Arlen shoves off to go, but hesitates. Arlen Finkle I just. I shouldn't tell you. I'm not telling you officially. The tenure candidates aren't notified til Monday.
. Yes? Arlen nods. Arlen Finkle You'll be very pleased. LARRY stares at him.
Thank you, Arlen. Over his back as he goesMail in front of him. He opens an envelope from RONALD MESHBESHER, ESQ. In it are two pieces of paper. Topmost is a letter headed RETAINER
He fingers the invoice. Close on a printed detailHe is staring down at his desktop. He reaches up and scratches his nose as he stares at his desk. On the desk. Hello?
. Yes?
. Yes?
. Yes?
Hi, Len Shapiro.
Oh. Hello Dr. Shapiro. Dr. Shapiro Listen, mazel tov on DANNY.
Yes, thank you. Dr. Shapiro Listen, could you come in to discuss these X-ray results? LARRY sits frozen, phone to his ear. . Hello?
Dr. Shapiro LARRY, could you come in and discuss these X-ray results? Remember the X-rays we took?
. We can't discuss them on the phone? Thunder. Pattering rain.
Dr. Shapiro Now. Now is good. I've cleared some time now.
We are looking through a windshield lashed by rain at LARRY, driving. His hands are clenched tight on the wheel. Wipers pump to keep up with the rain. The cars behind have their lights on. It has gotten quite dark. Passing streetlights rhythmically sweep LARRY's face, their light stippled and bent by the rain on the windows.
Hey! Fagle! From behind DANNY, over his shoulderWritersMarch 27, 1987
You ever see chemical interrogation
These assholes are agency?
We're all C.I.A. But these guys are from a page that ain't on the map.
How long till we're across the border?
We've been over for the past hour.
What are you looking at, hotshot?
( indicates cigarette Why don't you light a bonfire?
Just drive the taxi, ace.
They're in there.
I don't trust these yo-yo's.
That's the nice thing about modern technology. You don't have to wait for results.
Where is it, Charley? You got six tons of our shit
Don't you die on me, fucker
What the hell's wrong?
( throws the prisoner This pussy can't hold his liquor.
So my little doctor bag doesn't scare you, eh? Well I don't need it to open your yap.
I'm gonna teach you good. I'm gonna teach you never to fuck with my
You're a hard nigger, aren't you, boy? You took it from the Chinks. you took it from the French. You'll be fucked if some Yankee peckerwood's gonna start your gums flapping Well, you're gonna chirp for me, tough guy. You're gonna sing like a
Well, you're gonna chirp for me, tough guy. You're gonna sing like a
What the fuck does this have to do with military intelligence?
Your orders are 'assist and observe' Zagon turns to face Nico
Back off, partner
I'm gonna start carving at your ankles. We'll throw your feet in that box right over there. Then I'm gonna take off your arms Shut up, Nico.
( can't take Shut up, Nico.
Shut up, Nico.
You can disappear as easy as this slope, kid
Are you crazy?!! What the fuck's the matter with you?!!! I don't cap him now, he's gonna do me
I don't cap him now, he's gonna do me
I don't cap him now, he's gonna do me
I'll cover this. Get back to the
I'll call for a chopper. get outa
Mama, look at this all done by hand.
Nico had one just like this. Thank you, Cora.
I think we got a little problem here.
I carried him for the last nine months, you take him for the next diaper.
That's what you get for not marrying a
My brave husband. He's not afraid of thieves and muggers, but he's terrified when his son poops in his pants.
( indicates Nico Toscani holds the record. for havin' more relatives under federal indictment than any other cop in Chicago.
Look at these stiff dicks. A free meal and they come out like flies.
I didn't do nothing, Counselor. I'm Eight more days, Lieutenant. You better start preparing your defense.
Eight more days, Lieutenant. You better start preparing your defense.
Baby, I'm gonna put you on retainer.
You passed the bar? I make it a point never to pass the bar.
Now this cop. She can bust me any
Look at this little bundle. What a You give up being the D.A. and hurry up and find the right fella, Jax. You might have time for one of these
You give up being the D.A. and hurry up and find the right fella, Jax. You might have time for one of these
Nico, will you let the woman catch her breath?
Watanabe! Say hey, Doc. They begin jabbering in Japanese. We will meet Watanabe again later. She's a brainy-looking woman reserved, a bit mysterious who talks quietly and intensely in Japanese with Nico like they're old friends who go back a long way.
You're a father now. Are you gonna take me up on my offer?
I'm happy, Branca. I like what I do. Branca glances seriously to the other uncles, then, with a smile, pats Nico's cheek.
Look at this face! Six-foot-four, pretty as the statue of David. And he's a cop! Branca laughs. From a distance, Watanabe watches, missing nothing. Across the porch, Lukich and several other cops observe and try to listen.
This face should be sticking up from a white shirt. It should be a banker, a businessman, someone who earns a decent living for his family!
We're happy.
Nickels and dimes. Your wife's a woman with class. What did she run a ballet school.?
An art gallery.
Same thing. She wants a husband who carries a briefcase, not a shoulder Jackson watches Nico trying to keep his good humor. This is serious stuff, despite the light tone. Branca's eyes meet Nico's.
You wanted to get shot, you got shot. You wanted to get knifed, you got knifed. You've had your fun. Basta! Let your family help you, Nico.
Let your family help you, Nico.
Uncle Gio, that kind of help I don't need. I'd rather get shot by someone I don't know.
What are you doing in here, Mama? Go join the party.
Mrs. Z. Is this a way to act on the day of my son's baptism?
It's Lucy. She's gone again.
It's that kid from the bar on Damen? The one with the drugs?
Listen to me, Mrs. Z. Are you I have to go to work now. But I'll come by tonight. You'll be at the bakery?
Si, Nico.
We'll talk, okay? We'll find a way to take care of this.
Unit Ten Tango X-ray. We're up and clear.
And then you're gonna come visit me in a nice, clean, air conditioned
I gotta take a quick leak. Stay
Why the fuck don't you assholes leave me alone? He continues mouthing off to Nico. Nico moves to one stool, then another; the same exchange is repeated.
One Jacket treats him like he doesn't exist, and begins to pick his nose.
You seen this girl?
That's witty.
Come on. Show me something.
I get it. It's a gay bar. Is that it?
You seen the top of her head, huh? Like I seen your mother's Or was it yours? Or yours? I couldn't tell, it looked like her ass
Come on, motherfuckers. Do it. Do it! One man Nico lunges for the Bad Dude, grabs him like he's about to tear his face off
She's upstairs! 4-D!
You cocksuckers are brave enough with 14-year-old girls.
Get outta here.
This ain't your day, kid.
Wait, man. It ain't like it That's two years.
That's two years.
That's four. She'll get you eight more. And I'm just warming up
( to Nico, indicat- Take it, baby. It's all yours
Get your clothes on, Lucy.
There's money. Three grand in the . I can get ya more
Hey, sister, what it be?
Don't you fuckin' move. Nico steps back into the apartment, hauls out Lucy in a dressing gown.
Let him alone! He's beautiful!
Not when I get through with him.
No, man, wait! I'll give you something! Something big!
Please, Nico! Don't!
It's huge! I swear it! A shipment. coming in next Shipment, my ass.
Shipment, my ass.
This is square! On my mother's soul! You can't send me up
I heard it from a hooker friend of mine. She's banging some big coke lawyer, he told her. I swear to Jesus!
What lawyer?
I don't know. That platinum chola. Carla DeCarlo. she knows.
She got popped this afternoon. She's downtown. Red dress, lizard
It's okay, girl. Mama Jax is
That was some leak you took.
Broken windows and lost pussy cats,
You're one crazy bastard, Toscani.
We'll get her some clothes and a bath. I'm not bringing her home to her grandmother like this.
I don't get you, Toscani. What the hell are you doing being a shitheel cop? With your background?
When I was overseas, I saw some things. Things that eat your guts out. Things that stay in front of your eyes like they were burned in and branded.
You can walk away from them, Jax. You can quit, but you know it's still going on. You try something I know I'm not going to change the world. I can't stop the tonnage coming in, I can't fight the boys behind the desks pushing their But maybe here, huh? Maybe in my own city, my own neighborhood, on my own block maybe here I can do something.
But maybe here, huh? Maybe in my own city, my own neighborhood, on my own block maybe here I can do something.
That's why I'm a shitheel cop.
Carla. Carla I just want the name of your boyfriend
I got 200 boyfriends. The hooker, Carla DeCarlo, slaps the box away, cursing in Pinchi cabron, cabeza colon!
Pinchi cabron, cabeza colon!
Why can't you sons-a-bitches ever treat someone with a little  Take it easy, sister.
Take it easy, sister.
I ain't your goddamn sister. We ain't got the same mother,
The lawyer's name is Abandano. He's on the third floor. I got a look at him. I couldn't get how he's connected, but according to Carla, he's a lousy lay.
Maybe we can bust him for that.
That's our stud.
I brought you in for your muscles, Nardo, not your mouth.
I'm sorry, boss.
Your English is getting good. You're showing it off. Showing it off on the street
I keep quiet. I never talk no Salvano glowers at Nardo like he's about to punch him. Instead he reaches over, playfully chokes the busboy then releases him, as if all is forgiven.
Make yourself useful. Get downstairs, bring me one of Then get back to work.
I thought I was dead, man. ( whistles with I thought I was fucking dead.
You were right, cabron.
Clean up this mess.
Who knows who else is talking
He was a young fool.
We're crazy waiting for this bullshit 'shipment.' Let me waste the other fucker now. Salvano puts a hand on Chi Chi's shoulder.
Be patient. This will be done the way it was planned.
Toscani, you're going to have me doing time.
Lighten up, Jax. No one's bringing this into court.
Except against us.
I don't give a shit how we do it. I just wanna get there.
I thought you said you were gonna protect me. Cover my butt. Be my guardian angel
I got the shipment.
What? What's he saying?
'. Engine block has cleared customs. Serial number VA-748. Pick up Tuesday, 3 May as
I want to know when he wipes his
88 EXT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT
88 EXT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT
Two for dinner?
Two for drinks.
Gimme something stiff. I need it.
Who doesn't?
Why couldn't it be a week from Tuesday? I could read about it in the paper.
Cheer up, partner. I'm gonna make you famous.
You missed a few spots, boys.
I'm takin' it home t'a make kilbasa, boss.
This ain't a bust it's a Don't you like company, Luke? We got all the scouts here Drug Enforcement Agency, the Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms
Don't you like company, Luke? We got all the scouts here Drug Enforcement Agency, the Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms
This is our channel, dickhead. And our collar.
'. And so I quit the police department. got myself a steady job ' They spotted me. I'm too good- looking to be a meat slopper.
They spotted me. I'm too good- looking to be a meat slopper.
You're too ugly.
Here we go, boys and girls  You stay put.
It's going down now. Move!
105 QUICK CUTS - VAN AND STATION WAGON MEN
Nico! The Lincoln!
How many kilos you got in there,
What kinda fuckin' high is this?
I'll tell you what this cop is. He's a fucking menace!
You see what he did to me?!
Your problem is being handled right now, Mr. Salv
Yeah? Well, it shoulda been handled twelve hours ago. I don't know who's running this outfit, but somebody better get his goddamn wires yes, sir. yes, sir, I understand
yes, sir. yes, sir, I understand
That maniac should be wearing a number, not a badge.
count on it, sir. Right. You'll have our full cooperation.
You're free to go.
( to Nico, DEA This is no reflection on the work you officers have done. I feel, and the whole department feels, extremely proud of your initiative and gallantry.
As all of you are well aware, possession of these explosives is a federal offense and under jurisdiction of the F.B.I.
Sir. With all respect to our brothers in the Bureau That's no answer. It's no answer to why one of the biggest dealers in the city is out on the street now, free as a bird!
Keep it in your pants, Nico. These men have a job to do, just like us.
Lieutenant, I think these officers are entitled to a fuller
What I'm about to say doesn't leave this room. Is that clear?
Mr. Salvano has been working for some time in cooperation with certain federal agencies.
Mr. Salvano's role is crucial to an extremely sensitive ongoing investigation. Any further surveillance, harassment, or unauthorized operations against this individual are forbidden. I must order you gentlemen with all respect for your work and your courage, to stand down.
The tapes too.
That's my Lawrence Welk I want everything you got on this
I want everything you got on this Reluctantly, Nico hands over the tapes. The Lieutenant eyes the bugs and wires.
I know you don't give a shit about yourself, Toscani. But you're gonna put Jackson's ass in a sling, too, with these illegal wires.
What's the story on your partner, Jackson? Did he learn this style or was he born with a brick up his Jackson checks Halloran out. He's black too and, despite herself, there's a certain rapport.
He has ethics. Unlike certain others on this case. Halloran watches the illegal bugs and tapes come out of Nico's drawer.
His 'ethics' are gonna cost him his badge and his gun. This "white" talk gives Jackson a pain. She slips into her jive mode.
You don't wanna catch him without no gun. Halloran's look asks why not?
'Cause what he do with his hands. make bullet holes look pretty. Across the room, Nico turns over the tapes.
He bad?
Bad bad.
Is that enough? Can we do something normal now like eat lunch?
Anything you say, Jax. How about Salvano's?
Let it be, Nico.
What. you kept his tape, too?
Poetry, ain't it?
This is your mother's church, isn't it?
Yeah. But I bet she's never seen these boys in the choir.
Father Genarro. The priest seizes Nico's hand warmly, smiles at Jackson.
This must be your partner in I'm Father Genarro. I saw you at the baptismal party. What a partner.
Dolores Jackson Nico, we gotta go
No, please It's good you stopped by. I have to show you something. Please. The priest begins leading Nico and Jackson. Jackson keeps glancing back out the alley to see Salvano's car slowly driving by.
The rats are getting bigger.
When did this happen?
Two nights ago. I didn't call the police.
It's all right, son. These are
These are friends.  This is Father Tomassino.
How do you do? Nico shakes the young priest's hand. There is a moment between them as Nico meets Tomassino's eyes, liking what he sees. The refugees are relieved, however, when Father Genarro, Nico and Jackson take their leave.
I didn't know this church was a sanctuary, Father.
Yes. But, perhaps not such a safe one.
How long have they been here?
Too long. At least the kids can go to our school.
Who did it, Father?
Kids, maybe. Maybe worse. It's not the first We can have a car check by, every No. please. Police frighten these people.
We can have a car check by, every No. please. Police frighten these people.
No. please. Police frighten these people.
Really, I don't mind coming by.
Tell me, Nico. When was your last confession?
I'm a married man, Father. I've got no sins to confess.
You're a police officer, you have many sins to confess.
Nico and Jackson start off.
You come back Sunday. I feel better when I see Nicola in  You don't show, I'm phoning your
Father Genarro! I have you to thank for getting my son back into church!
It's amazing what shame can
In nomine patris, filius et spiritu sancti. 
( examines Julian's Way to go, Julian perfect timing.
We're okay! We're okay!
Help the others! Help them, Nico!
Help each other move outside. Be
Call 911. Tell 'em to send everything they got! Sara, get the baby and Mama
I want a list of everyone that's been treated here today. Everyone.
Then find those sanctuary people, the ones we saw in the church
Then find those sanctuary people, the ones we saw in the church
Find out where they're from, why anyone would want to harm them.
Where are you gonna be?
Just stay near a radio. I'll find
Sara. go down to the car; I'll be with you in a minute.
I need to talk to you. . Alone.
What the hell is it, Toscani?
You. That's what the hell it is!
Get your goddam hands off me!
You let Salvano walk.
Salvano?! Are you crazy? What does he have to do with this?
That was no cherry bomb in there. That was C-fucking-4! I've used that shit.
Salvano never came near that C-4. It's in federal holding now! Besides, why would he blow up a I tailed Salvano. Two days ago. Him and one of his apes were in that church and they weren't taking communion. I saw some broad saw who was with his lawyer plant the bomb. Now I want some goddamn You tailed him? After I ordered you off?
I tailed Salvano. Two days ago. Him and one of his apes were in that church and they weren't taking communion. I saw some broad saw who was with his lawyer plant the bomb. Now I want some goddamn You tailed him? After I ordered you off?
You tailed him? After I ordered you off?
Where is he? Where's Salvano?
My orders were release him. Not babysit him. Neeley brushes Nico's fingermarks off his lapels.
You think you're rough stuff, Toscani martial arts hero, chop suey crap. Well I'll tell you somethingI want the agent who signed for the explosives.
I'll do my job. You do yours.
Bank on it, pal.
You gonna be in real trouble, mister, when El Senor Salvano find out about dis.
'Cuse me, sir. Can I bum a light?
Don't even think about it,
We ain't gonna shoot you, man. We gonna beat you to death. You gonna learn what it means to 'get moment of stillness, as if all senses are clicking out of normal gear and into some hyper-combat readi- ness. ThenFly, baby!
No, hermano. Please
Who put up the money?
What money?
You didn't come after me for a piece of ass. Who paid you?
I told ya! No one!
Shut up!
Give it to me!
Jimmy Constanza!
If you're lying to me, I'll come and kill you right in your own fucking kitchen.
Salvano! Bautista Salvano!
Gracias, muchacho.
I can't sleep. Will you come and hold me?
Of course I will. I've been waiting to hear from Jax. She was supposed to get back to me by now.
Thank God you couldn't find your shoes. We would of have been sitting in the front row. Alright, I know the rules I don't ask you don't tell. But could've died today and I deserve to know. Why did we go to church this I'm willing to break the rules; I'm willing to tell you whatever I know. But I need some time. Could you just give me some time?
I'm willing to break the rules; I'm willing to tell you whatever I know. But I need some time. Could you just give me some time?
I'll bet that's her.
This better be good, Jax.
Long time, Nelson.
You should know not to use a name on an open line. I'm gonna talk for fifteen seconds, then I'm getting off. You're in trouble, Nico.
You hear me? Now. I'm risking my ass by telling you this. Good luck, kid.
That was Fox, wasn't it?
Why is the C.I.A. calling you at two in the morning?
It's okay, sweetheart You know what a crazy bastard Fox is. He gets drunk and forgets he's halfway around the world. He calls me.
He just wanted to make sure we got his Christmas card.
It's a little early for breakfast, Sorry, Nico.  You're under arrest.
Sorry, Nico. You're under arrest.
( reaches for Nico's I'll take this, thank you.
No, you won't. I'm gonna give it to you.
This is ridiculous there's no need for this!
It's all right, darling. Who do you think you are coming in here like this, treating my son like a criminal?
Who do you think you are coming in here like this, treating my son like a criminal?
Why are you terrifying us? There's an infant here!
Check that coat.
Get your hands off him!
( to Sara, It's all a mistake, Sara It's gonna be all right.
The Police Association's got lawyers for this, you bastards!
Illegal wiretaps. Unauthorized When were you born, asshole?
When were you born, asshole?
Associating with known felons. Disobeying direct orders
Where's Jackson?
She's outa this.
You're the rotten apple in this barrel, Toscani. We don't have to look any farther than you and your 'family.' Nico comes out of his chair, going for Halloran. Strozah tries to block him, but it's useless.
Nico! You damn fool! You wanna go to prison?! Nico stops. He's speechless with rage. His finger points toward Halloran like a loaded gun.
( indicates more Unlawful entry. Illegal search and seizure
You'll never build a frame on this  You were ordered to back off on Salvano. But you had too big a hard-on for that, didn't you
You were ordered to back off on Salvano. But you had too big a hard-on for that, didn't you
Fred. You can't be in on this.
You're officially suspended, Toscani. I want your tin. and your iron. Neeley leans past Nico; drops Nico's gun  onto the table. Nico looks to Strozah, who averts his eyes. Nico flips his badge onto the table.
You holding me?
You can walk for now. But don't walk far.
Sara, I'm okay. I love you.
Where are you? Why aren't you coming home?
I'll be home later. Lukich will be there. Tell mama not to worry.
I found the sanctuary people.
Ready for this? One of the people killed at the church was definitely not a congregation member.
Alan Singletary. He's an aide to Senator Harrison.
That's right. Harrison. Foreign relations committee. The guy who's been crawling all over the Central American drug connections.
You're gonna make a helluva D.A., God help us.
God help us.
( savors the com- I've been at the Tribune all night, wearing out their Xerox machine. Harrison's staff has been compiling some kind of white paper. He's due to release it next week.
That's how Fox knew.
Nico turns to Lukich, dead earnest.
Luke. I want you to go to my house. Call Branca. my mother has the number. Get my family ready to move out.
You got it, buddy.
Stay with 'em. We'll be there.
What's going on, Nico? What I got a call last night. An old agency friend. He told me my family was in danger.
I got a call last night. An old agency friend. He told me my family was in danger.
You got a weapon?
Try this on.
Sister. you know me. Tell them there's no need for fear.
There is rubble all over the yard, I was there. in the church. They tried to kill my family, too.
I was there. in the church. They tried to kill my family, too.
I know there was a man here, from an American senator's office. Who was he going to speak to?
Was it you, senora?  Was it you?
The priest.
Father Genarro?
The other one.
No. The young one. From Costa
Father Tomassino.
He came alone. two weeks ago. He had papers. Papers to give to the senator.
But the bomb. The bomb was planted to destroy the pulpit.
Father Tomassino was going to give the Mass that day. Father Genarro talked him out of
It was Father Tomassino they were trying to kill.
Where is Tomassino? Where is he
He run, mister. He go
If you know where he is, you've got to tell me. I want to help him. I can help him.
You're outa this, Jax. Go home.
You see this list? Well, I'm not
I'm not a rookie, Toscani. Now, go home. Get your family out of
( calls after Just paperwork, you understand?
Over here, you sons-a-bitches!
( eyes like an Try it. Be my guest.
Over there! Move it! Now!!
Hands on the counter! Three men do it; the fourth is slow.
Don't tempt me, ASSHOLE The fourth obeys. Nico moves to the pay phone on the wall, covering the men with his .45. He grabs the re- ceiver in his free hand; tries to dial. Adrenaline makes his hand shake; the dials spin wrong One of the men sees Nico's dilemma. To hit 911, Nico has to take his eye momentarily off his captives. As Nico turns again to the dial A free-standing sales display hurtles toward him, crashing into his gun hand. One of the men has lunged into the display; now he dives atop Nico a second later. The whole human pile crashes, thundering into a glass freezer. Somehow Nico gets to his feet. One of the men grabs Nico's gun; Nico swings one of the freezer doors Wham! smack into the man's face. The GLASS SHATTERS; the man drops like a rock. Now it's three against one prime odds for Nico. He wades into his attackers. A coffee stand goes flying. A body sails into a makeup display. One fool is lucky enough to land a blow that bloodies Nico's nose; he pays with a shattered forearm and a head-first heave into an ice cream locker
Get their stuff into the car now. Do it in the alley, not the driveway. I'll be there in five
Get their stuff into the car now. Do it in the alley, not the driveway. I'll be there in five
Your job and your family in one day, Nico. You're batting a thousand.

You'll be safe with Uncle Branca. It's gotta be this way. I'm sorry. He turns her around to face him.
Don't you think I'd rather be with He holds her passionately. Rosa coughs loudly in the doorway.
Mama. you got your medicine? Don't forget the baby's sweater
I know about babies. We glimpse other relatives in the hallway; Nico hands them a pair of suitcases; they hurry off
( of Nico's bloodied You sure you're all right?
I am if you are.
Don't worry  We needed a vacation, anyway.
( crossing yard with I'll give you five minutes start. We have to do it this way. Where's Jax?
Where's Jax?
She thinks there may be documents at some guy's apartment.
They killed the wrong priest.
There was a second priest. from Costa Rica. hiding at the church. He was the one they meant to kill.
And you know where to find him?
The hole in the foundation holds several shotguns and a couple of pistols, some passports and some cash.
You're gonna need help.
Just stay with my family ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 68.
What are you gonna do?
You don't want to know.
My sister's cousin's place. You're safe not even I can find this joint.
Don't forget your seat belt.
Congratulations, Toscani. You just made number four on the most wanted Keep walking  I'm bucking for number one.
Keep walking I'm bucking for number one.
What can I do for you, lads?
There was a quantity of C-4 explosive brought in four days ago
Hell, that's gone.
Right away, pardner. They scooped that stuff outa here before we even got it tagged.
Right away, pardner. They scooped that stuff outa here before we even got it tagged.
Who? Who took it?

We'd like to see the paperwork.
You gotta sign. Neeley signs the book. The Clerk starts leafing through his files, searching for the release form.
Yeah. I remember that guy. Flew in special from Langley. Bomb tech. Real nice fella Here it is. Fox. Nelson Fox.
Thank you. That's what I wanted.
Dump your shoes. Ditch your I.D. on the floor.
So you think I'm a lousy cop, huh, Neeley? Maybe I am. But I haven't got my face buried up Washington's ass.
Nobody buys me, Toscani.
Yeah? Then somebody pulled the plug on your brain, pal. You didn't come up with the second priest, did you? Or Harrison's dead aide. Hurry up! You heard the radio. The Agency's pushing buttons and bodies are dropping like flies. You assholes are missing half the case!
Listen. Toscani Watch your step.
Watch your step.
The officer is alleged to be involved in illicit drug trafficking, racketeering and kidnapping
So good to see you again, sir! Come back near closing. five- thirty. we'll place your order Nico nods, fades like a shadow into the throng. MUSIC
emerges with Nico from behind a booth divider, leads her old friend at a brisk pace across the deserted floor.
Listen, Wat. you know I wouldn't call in a favor
Of course not. Just because you kept a few 'friendly' tribesmen from cutting my heart out and serving it up as Pad Thai?
The last six years I've been risking nothing but money. It's a kick to risk my ass again.
The old Spook.

Yes. yes, of course, sister, I know who you are.  where. where are you?
No way to access Covert Ops directly. But Ornstein's at Princeton, he's got a database bigger than Langley If I can't crack that turkey's code, it's time to hang up my rock and roll shoes
ah, here! Here's a little trap door. Let's see if we can wriggle up Personnel files! Operative dossiers. Will that do?
It's a start.
Fox has had a helluva career. '69 to '76, Cambodia, Laos. Operation Phoenix. Operation Green Mountain. Operaton Northstar. This is all Vang Pao, it's all heroin
You friend has found his metier. Run personnel retrievals on all these operations. I want the names of every company man who was on them.
Run personnel retrievals on all these operations. I want the names of every company man who was on them.
( finger tracks down Central American desk. Central American desk. Central
Thirty names from secret drug operations. and two-thirds of 'em are in Central America. All right. Run these two namesThose street dealers you were talking about? They're not gonna be in here.
There's nothing left, Nico. We've wrung these files dry.
. Listen. Can this thing tap into airlines? Reservations records
I can get you the ball scores, too.
Five agents from Central American desk. All trained assassins. All arrived in Chicago in the last week and none of them has left.
Thanks, Wat. You finally may have done some good for your country.
Where are you going?
To find a priest.
How did ya find him?
The nun phoned me. She said two men had been sneaking around the church. She sounded scared
There's more. I got the papers from that senator's aide's apartment. Everything Harrison's been working on. It's all at my place.
You'll be in heaven in a few minutes, padre. But first I'm going to put you through hell.
You came here to talk to the Senator's aide, didn't you?
I tried. But you killed him first.
Who told you about our plans?
This is from confession. I tell no You wouldn't lie to me, Father? It's a sin.
You wouldn't lie to me, Father? It's a sin.
If you spoke to anyone, tell me now  and I won't have to use this.
You're our backup. If we come out running, then you can shoot.
Speak to me, Father who did you tell?
I know what you are. I know what beasts you are.
I want to know who you told.
I told them. you make the ninos. see. castrating their fathers raping. mutilating their mothers . And.  . and sometimes. to the ninos.
Can we kill him? If you told anyone, about our plans to kill the senator, we cannot do it.
Nadie. Nadie. Nadie.
Go! Go!
( in Spanish, from Get him! Finish him!
Nico bolts for the stairwell to the roof, clawing for a new clip as he goes. Salvano and Zagon burst into the hallway, SHOOTING at Nico.
Had to be a hero. another fucking hero. I'm sorry Jax.
dumb fuck. think they're gonna let you put 'em outta business
You call Nico's goddamn Uncle and find out if he's heard anything.
You just shutup and take it easy,
We don't know what happened to him, Branca. Ya, she's gonna be alright.
Jesus Christ!
The motherfuckas got Jackson.
Lukich called. She's not dead. She's gonna make it. She was wearing a vest.
That broad didn't trust me.
It was picked up with your mail this
Don't worry, they're booked on an early plane. They'll be out of the country
Oh my God, Nico!
He's fine. The boy has ribs of steel!
Enough of your humor.
( to doctor and Leave them. Leave them alone.
You've got to do it, Nico. You know you have to.
Listen to her, Nicola. Whatever you think of him, Federico is family. He is our family.
Ever notice how clean babies smell? Like nothing in the world has touched them yet.
If you won't go to him, I will.
Don't push me like this
Branca can put us on a plane but where can we fly to? Tibet? The moon? There's nowhere they can't find us.
You don't know what the hell you're talking about.
I'm talking about everything I've learned from you in the past five
You know I can't go to him.
Do you know why I love you? Do you know what it is about you that I've always loved? Pride. It's what you have inside. You don't live the way other people live. You trust what you see as right and won't let anyone or anything make you stray from it.
I am only an old man. An old man with a cancer.
I don't have much time, Uncle. So I must speak plainly.
( this is very painful For as long as I've been old enough to think, I've hated you and hated everything you stood for.
I was so sure that you and I were on opposite sides of the fence. and that you and your people were destroying this country
The most painful realization of my life was that the people I worked for and you are not far apart. And there's not much difference between what you are and what I was.
I will be candid with you. I knew, probably before you did, that you would be coming to me. I knew what you would ask. and I had every intention of refusing you.
But it is a form of wisdom to know when to cease relying only upon
You know, of course, that this Senator Harrison will never live to make his speech tomorrow. You know, too, that as long as this man. this torturer
Kurt Zagon.
As long as this Zagon lives, nothing I can do will guarantee your family's 'Ecce non uomine, ecce bestie.' You know Dante? 'These are not men, these are animals.'
Memorize this address.
Have you got it in your mind?
Thank you, Mr. Carlucci. I trust you will give my love to my niece, Rosa.
I will do that, Mr. Larusso. I hope you will be well.
You got the architect's drawings? Wiring, floor plans
It's all here.
I could help you from here on.
It's not your business.
Grazie, tio caro.
Take care of yourself, Nicola.
That wasn't the plan, Nelson.
Close range, huh? Never work. Place is rigged, scanned every 35 seconds.
I was thinking of a mine on the roof. Remote-triggered, when the chopper comes in.
Roof's wired too. Sensors every fifteen feet.
You can turn now. Slowly. Slooowly.
I figured you'd do your recon from this
You're looking fit, Nelson.
Getting a bit of a tire.
Your own tailor?
Hong Kong.
You've gone a long way.
Uh uh. Uhhh-uh. I know what you can do when you get too close to a man.
I don't believe you, Fox.
What's so hard to believe. I want to help you, you dumb guinea!
Fox the fixer.
If I wanted to cap you, I'd have saved myself this chit-chat. Make big points for me to bring in your scalp. I'd be White House material.
Is that what Zagon is? One of your basement boys?
Zagon's a rancher. 4000 acres in Costa Rica. Beautiful place.
Bought with what opium from Cambodia?
And a ton a week of coke from other Which he funnels here through Salvano. With the Company getting its cut.
Which he funnels here through Salvano. With the Company getting its cut.
Legal tender.
Still dodging appropriations committees, eh, Nelson?
That's my job, Nico.
Keep your nose in the corner. When we get out, stay five paces ahead of me. Cross down to the garage.
The Senator couldn't be bought, could he? He was gonna blow the lid off, so you cleared Zagon to frost him
Keep walking.
ran here. You couldn't do the Senator's number 'till you knew if the priest had talked. So Zagon flew in with his little medical bag. Only by then I was in on it and you thought I might recognize his handiwork.
If your name was Joe Smith I never would have caught it. But how many Nicola Toscani's are there?
You got it off the arrest sheet. Fox hands his ticket to the cashier, motions Nico to the side, away from the guests, still keeping his distance should Nico try to make a move.
I tried to warn you, old buddy. I knew you had wiretaps. and I knew you wouldn't let 'em go.
Only I was too dumb to crack it. I was so busy trying to figure a code, I didn't even recognize Zagon's voice. It's all crystal clear to Nico now.
So we kill our own senators now.
Why not? The Romans did. A Cadillac pulls up; the valet hops out, two particularly florid, well-fed guests get in, tipping the valet.
( to Fox, watching the Are we the Romans?
We're an empire too. Fox doesn't like the look Nico gives him.
Would you rather spoon borscht and quote Lenin? I'm trying to save you, asshole! I got a spot for you. Thailand, deep under, no names, no numbers
Doing what processing heroin?
You 'consult.' You 'assist.' You send checks to your family. Zagon won't touch you, you'll be on the team
Fuck you.
In five years you're out, with a fat Swiss account and a GS-15 pension. Nico stares at his old friend with contempt. He sees the gun under Fox's coat, but he's too tired and too disgusted to care
You know, Fox, right now in Israel they're trying some 80-year-old camp guard for war crimes. And all around our country there are guys on Death Row for killing one person, two people. And probably they all deserve it He takes a step toward Fox. Fox's hand tightens on his gun.
but you and I know a couple guys personally who are responsible for the murder of at least what. 60,000 non- military personnel.  Viet. Lao. Thai. Cambodian. Librarians, teachers, doctors. women, children. and that's just a sliver of
We've wiped out entire fucking countries. And not one agent
( moves gun into Nico's Stop right there!
not one C.I.A. agent has ever been tried or convicted, much less accused of any crimes.  You motherfuckers think you're above the law  Well, you ain't above mine.
Well. well. What a team we have We've been looking for you, Nelson. I see you've found our friend.
We've been looking for you, Nelson. I see you've found our friend.
Thanks for the help, Fox.
I didn't bring him, Nico. I swear it!
Have you two been sharing fond memories? Reminiscing about the good old days?
Stay still! Don't fucking move!! Fox pulls his .45 from concealment, covering Nico. An EVENING-GOWNED WOMAN, waiting with her husband for their car, hears Fox's shout, sees his gun.
Bring in our friend, Nelson.
Be a good boy
Dive, Nico!!
( to first agent,
378 ZAGON
No! I want him! I want him alive!
We've got an hour before the honorable senator. You've got to learn to take time, smell the roses. Zagon turns to Nico.
How are you gonna do him, Zagon? In a motorcade? Or passing through a hotel kitchen? The Noose agent jerks his cable tight, making Nico gag and choke. Zagon motions to slacken off. He stops at a small table before Nico unrolls a well-worn felt pouch. Zagon watches Nico's reaction as the tools of the inter- rogator's trade come into view drug vials, syringes, scalpels, surgical tools.
I've used these little beauties many times to extract information This'll be the first time I've ever used them. just for fun. Zagon sets the syringe down, slips on a heavy, weighted Take his arms. Pistol agent and Bad Dude move in, one on each side, seizing Nico's forearms. Shotgun agent holds his weapon tight to Nico's head.
Take his arms.
Hold him up! Pistol agent and Bad Dude lift Nico. Zagon slams him again. Again. Nico's cheekbone is broken; blood drains from his nose. Zagon aims a two-handed blow; backhands Nico, crushing the other side of his face! Zagon backs off, chest heaving. Pistol agent and Bad Dude plop Nico back in the chair, gagging, choked by the noose. Nico looks like the Viet prisoner the one we saw in the opening sequence. Like the prisoner, Nico takes his beating still conscious, still meeting Zagon's eyes with defiance.
This is where you came in, Toscani. Only, now it's where you're gonna check out. He takes off his glove, grabs the syringe. Pistol agent and Bad Dude clamp Nico's right arm down tight. Zagon injects Nico.
That's it. Fight it, cherry. Fight it, so it speeds faster on its way Nico struggles more violently.
Fight it. Till the vessels burst in your brain. Till the arteries rupture in your heart Slowly, the struggle goes out of Nico. His muscles go limp; he slumps drooling, babbling incoherently.
That's my boy. That's what I was waiting for Zagon produces his famous knife. He motions Pistol agent and Bad Dude to release Nico's arms. Noose agent slackens his grip on the choke cable. Zagon moves in closer, gloating, cooing
A fool learns from his own mistakes. But a wise man learns from the mistakes of others You should have killed me when you had the chance, Toscani
Can you feel the chemicals, cherry? You can't fight 'em much Long enough to finish you.
Long enough to finish you.
( shouting for Is there a hotel doctor? Call 911!
Detective Toscani. I wanted to personally thank you. You are making it possible for a sliver of truth to finally come out.
And this is Clayton Alspaugh of the fifth circuit court.
Your Honor.
Are you sure you're feeling well
If you're ready to listen, I'm ready to talk.
THIS SCRIPT WAS PREPARED SCRIPT PROCESSING DEPARTMENT WritersBased on the book by
May 1996 Draft
PURPOSES ONLY 1 INT. WASHINGTON MUSEUM - DAY 1
FADE INDon't give up.
I never do.
May I?
You work with your hands, don't
( as they nod to ( as Luther hands Your life would be a whole lot simpler if you could learn to operate a V.C.R.
( as Luther hands Your life would be a whole lot simpler if you could learn to operate a V.C.R.
My only failing.
It's okay I told him I was sick anyway, he's gone
You fucking bastard.
You little whore
Kill her?
No choice in the matter.
Jesus, Tim, what did we do?
No choice in the matter.
Do you realize what a shitstorm we're in?  Go on tell me.
Nothing to tell. He screamed.
And you heard no sounds of violence 'til then?
Nothing we haven't heard before.
Maybe I should call the police Bill? Why don't you think about Take a second and just think about Think. real. fucking. hard.

He is strong enough to snap her neck with one hand.
Probably not a good idea.
Okay here's what happened tonight poor Christy came home alone and interrupted a burglary. That sound logical?
We're going to have to sanitize this place. Alan, did you have sex with her?
. Don'. 'member.
Bill, you're going to have to examine her.
I'm no gynecologist.
( she takes nothing I just made you one.
I'll take that.
It's got their prints on it.
( she holds out her Thanks for sharing. Gloria I killed her
Gloria I killed her
It's all going to be fine, Alan.
. But she's dead.
. I'll take care of everything just like I always do.
In reply, Collin dashes back toward the bed table, grabs Russell's purse, snaps it shut, tucks it under one arm and leaves. Burton flicks the light out, closes the door. The room is lit by moonlight now. Christy looks beautiful and still. HOLD for a moment.
In reply, Collin dashes back toward the bed table, grabs Russell's purse, snaps it shut, tucks it under one arm and leaves. Burton flicks the light out, closes the door. The room is lit by moonlight now. Christy looks beautiful and still. HOLD for a moment.
Collin, looking around the table and the letter opener is And without another word, they bolt out the door.
And without another word, they bolt out the door.
I got his license number.
Gee, guys, maybe it was the bogeyman don't forget to check under the bed  You may have buried us!
relax, I got his license number, remember?
you think he's going to just sit around waiting for us? take it easy, Miss Russell
take it easy, Miss Russell
everybody shut up, all right?
Oh boy.
A two-way mirror.
I better get cracking on that license number
it's all we've got and he's got the letter opener blood, fingerprints Jesus, think what he can do
( a powerful man who the man is a thief a thief who witnessed a murder
Jordan beat us at the buzzer.
Bad night.
Probably too late for me to take it up.
Probably too late for me to take it up.
The jogging.
Dumb way to start this, I guess. Wanted to talk to you.
Wanted to talk to you.
Believe it or not, the weather. Nights are starting to get cold.
Believe it or not, the weather. Nights are starting to get cold.
That happens this time of year.
I was thinking of maybe relocating. Someplace with a kinder climate. I just wanted to check it out with you first. . you're the only family I've
Luther, you don't have me.
you know what it's like being the only kid in show and tell who got to talk about visiting day?
you know what it's like being the only kid in show and tell who got to talk about visiting day?
This move I'm talking permanent, you understand.
We don't see each other anyway we haven't seen each other since Mom died and that's a year. Look, you chose your life. You had that right. You were never around for me. Fine. But I have no plans to be around for you.
wait a minute you're lying about something, aren't you?
are you active again? is that why you're here now?
are you active again? is that why you're here now?
Kate moves in close now
I don't believe you Christ, Father, what have you
Christy Sullivan?
Wife of Walter most likely came home and stumbled onto a some burglary.
I wish my carpets were this clean. And I can't find a single decent You serious, Laura?
You serious, Laura?
It's like Mary Poppins was here.
Could someone have let him in?
Sorry, Seth, but the entire Sullivan household went to Barbados two days ago.
Thank you for your support.
Wait it gets worse the shots came from here. If she interrupted a burglary, she should have been here she was killed where she is all the blood patterns indicate that. But she was looking toward the bed what in hell was she looking at?
Looks like someone sat here but I couldn't find any prints. You think Sullivan holed up in the chair and watched his wife I hope not he's such a great man.
I hope not he's such a great man.
Careful digging that out.
Looks like he tried to strangle So he tried to strangle her, then went to the door and shot her from He also inspected her vagina.
So he tried to strangle her, then went to the door and shot her from He also inspected her vagina.
He also inspected her vagina.
He did what? Why?
Maybe he couldn't remember if he fucked her.
A strong burglar with a weak mind obviously another open and shut
Mr. Sullivan? I'm Seth Frank, senior homicide detective for Middleton County
my client is in no mood for conversation, sir.
It's all right, Sandy you're in charge of the case?
I have to ask some questions, but it can be tomorrow.
You want what, positive identification? Yes, that was my wife. Anything else?
You'd been in Barbados for two  I took the entire staff down always do this time of year.
I took the entire staff down always do this time of year.
But Mrs. Sullivan didn't come.
She was, had it all planned, but you know women, they change their
I think that's enough for today.
I have to ask about the vault.
You mean the contents of the vault of course Sandy, you go on, I'm all Really. Go to the reception obviously I can't make it, but I'm sure everyone will understand.
I know it's not the contents You mean the chair. You have to ask about the chair.
Yessir, I do.
But why? Are they connected?
I think someone sat in it and I think that someone may have been involved in the murder. You were my father's hero, Mr. Sullivan, I promise you this won't make my highlight reel.
I'd hoped I could satisfy her. but you know. she had needs and she didn't want to go behind my back. she suggested the chair. she hoped I might get to like sitting there. . I didn't. I've tried for eighty years to live a decent life. I've given a billion dollars to charity. If this comes to trial, none of that will be remembered I'll just go out as the joke of the world.
I understand, sir; I'll do what I Will you listen to me whine? Please forgive me, Mr. Frank. Just do your job. And I'll do mine.
Will you listen to me whine? Please forgive me, Mr. Frank. Just do your job.  And I'll do mine.
Mr. President.
Take a walk with me.
Tell me about Walter how is he?
Eighty and alone, Mr. President.
He understands officially my hands are tied?
Mr. President, he's touched at your concern.
Any news of the killer? Well, why isn't there? Who's in charge of the case?
Top man eight years homicide work in New York. But I understand how you feel it's hard to be patient.
No one understands how I feel I'm supposed to have all this power but I can't help my oldest friend you know and I know that more than any man alive Walter Sullivan put me here and now when he most needs me, he must feel abandoned.
I'll hold a press conference and I'll have Walter come and I will embrace him before the world.
He'll treasure that, Mr. President. What a generous gesture. Thank you. Thank you. Damn tennis elbow is killing me.
Damn tennis elbow is killing me.
( throws off his jacket, This thing's worse, Gloria. I need to see a doctor.
The country would have to be informed, Mr. President.
What happened to my right to I think she nicked a tendon.
Burton says it's a flesh wound
when did you become such an expert, Bill? Ever been  Yes, sir. Many times.
Yes, sir. Many times.
Are you serious about that press conference, Alan?
Of course I am Walter's been like a father to me.
Shall I bring Mrs. Richmond home for it?
I think Mrs. Richmond's mission to help the poor in Asia should not be interrupted. We know anything yet?
We checked his license plate he stole the car from a police impoundment lot.
We're not dealing with a fool Has he initiated contact?
Burton doesn't think he will.
I agree. Sorry about my behavior won't happen again; think of it as a blip on the screen. And as far as I'm concerned, so is he.
He could be a little more than that, Alan he saw.
He saw nothing a drunk woman who liked rough sex too much. And he's a burglar. Who's going to believe him? After all, it's not as if he had evidence or anything.
Luther holds it. It's the middle of the night. Luther turns the weapon over and over in his big hands.
( as they study the You always did disappear good, You mean I've got a weak face. Thanks, Val.
You mean I've got a weak face. Thanks, Val.
You're lucky is all some of my customers, they stand out no matter what. How many passports you need?
How many passports you need?
Four should cover it.
Now you'll want different looks, and matching international driver's licenses I'll throw in some dummy credit cards, seeing it's you. How the rugs I made you holding up?
They're good. Beards and mustaches, too.
I try to give value for money. Leaving the country permanent?
It may come to that.
Matter where you've been? I hate doing those goddam Asian passport stamps.
Europe's fine. Maybe the Caribbean for winters. When can I pick up?
Usually takes some time, but for you, I'll rush it.
Thanks, Val. I've always been able to count on you.
I don't want to know what you're into, but leaving forever.
I don't want to know what you're into, but leaving forever.
Finish it.
I never figured you for a runner thirty percent of my runners kill themselves within five years.
Five years doesn't sound so bad to me just now.
See if any of this makes sense.
I am Christy Sullivan and I walk in and surprise a burglar.
Now you're the burglar coming out of the vault and being surprised.
Gold star. I draw my gun
then why do you bother to strangle her when you could just
That's nothing why do I bother to have her strip and then put her clothes back on?
There I can help you see, before you were a burglar you were a dry cleaner and you still love beautiful clothes.
And I dress her because?
She was a good customer and you didn't want her embarrassed when the police came.
She had a point-21 blood alcohol level. she was too drunk to drive. I've checked every cab and limo company in the area and not one of them knows anything. Someone drove her home. Goddamit, who? And why haven't they come Maybe whoever drove her home killed her.
Maybe whoever drove her home killed her.
You saying the burglar drove her I hate this case.
Lieutenant? sorry to bother you
Good service, thanks.
( dazzling smile Part of the job.
Oh yeah remember that bullet hole in the wall? Had the lab dig out the slug guess what no slug why does the burglar take the time to do that?
Different from the one in her
And oh, by the way, why does he or they go out the window in the first place when he or they got in by breaking a zillion- dollar security system?
A Bill Burton of the Secret Service in the parking lot.
A Bill Burton of the Secret Service in the parking lot.
Did I mention that I hate this case? I really truly hate this case you cannot imagine how much I hate it
Bill Burton, hi
hi, Seth Frank
I know you must be going crazy but the boss is very interested in your progress. Maybe we can help each other.
What did you have in mind?
You know how close he and Sullivan The minute anything breaks, if you'd call me, I'd tell the President. That way, he'd be the first to alert Mr. Sullivan it would mean a lot to him. And any red tape you want cut done. Here are my numbers.
Still trying to figure out what might have happened
Still trying to figure out what might have happened
I loved playing Sherlock You Secret Service guys do that?
You Secret Service guys do that?
I was State Trooper here ten years ago before the Government got me.
You're that Bill Burton.
I was younger and dumber then. Keep in touch.
( noting McCarty's The chef makes them especially for me I promise you they're You're a salesman, Mr. Sullivan.
This is a new arena for me, but from what I'm told, you have a flawless reputation, Mister McCarty which is why I need to employ you. I have no idea who I'm after. Until I do, you will have to wait in Washington for instructions.
I have no idea who I'm after. Until I do, you will have to wait in Washington for instructions.
When I was 10 my father died he was a miner and lung disease killed him. I became rich at 25 and the first thing I did was purchase that mine, close it, and give every miner there fifty thousand dollars to retire on. You will come to Washington, Mr. McCarty. You will put one million dollars expenses into the Swiss bank account of your choosing. And, when the time comes, two million dollars a bullet. You are a salesman, sir.
Selling sin is easy.
PULL BACK to reveal. . Seth and Laura, in his office. The mug shot is on his desk, along with some folders. Seth beckons to her.
Who is he?
Luther Whitney one of the great thieves of the
Been going nuts with this thing, up all night and I remembered your notion how it might be two burglars, and around dawn I thought, wait, what if it wasn't two burglars but what if it was one guy trying to throw us off by making it look like two? Called a buddy at the Bureau they keep track of this stuff internationally he says maybe only a half a dozen guys alive could have pulled off the Sullivan job I'm tracing all six but Whitney's the only one lives in Washington. Why haven't I ever heard of him?
Why haven't I ever heard of him?
Because he hasn't been arrested in thirty years.
This his graduation picture from  Ancient history he wasn't a jewel thief back then. Just a kid, just part of a gang, a three- time loser. But since he got out the last time, he's only worked and no one's touched him. He gets questioned whenever anything big comes up. But nothing sticks.
Ancient history he wasn't a jewel thief back then. Just a kid, just part of a gang, a three- time loser. But since he got out the last time, he's only worked and no one's touched him. He gets questioned whenever anything big comes up. But nothing sticks.
Seth we can make this stick I'll bet you anything this is our guy a local? can't ask for  We've got a problem.
We've got a problem.
Whitney hasn't killed anyone in 45 Laura doesn't get it.
Whitney hasn't killed anyone in 45 Laura doesn't get it.
Big deal, so he's a veteran.
Big deal, so he's a veteran.
Not just a veteran a wounded Got his combat record here. Battles, commendations, decorations up the kazoo. Lives alone on his disability. Says he does anyway. And I don't do war heroes.
Boy, you must be smart.
Usually takes a week for you guys to get to me.  You look just like your picture, Seth. I'm Luther Whitney.
Usually takes a week for you guys to get to me. You look just like your picture, Seth. I'm Luther Whitney.
So, do you want my confession now or after coffee?
Before I send you away for life, I should probably check out your Watched the Bullets game with Red Bransford. Prison buddy of mine runs a bar want to question me about the game? I'm probably
Watched the Bullets game with Red Bransford. Prison buddy of mine runs a bar want to question me about the game? I'm probably
You been following the case?
I love true crime
F.B.I. feels only a few guys could have handled something as hard as the Sullivan job. I've got a list here; you're on I wish it was true. Your robber actually went in the front door but came out down a rope in the dark in the middle of the night? If only I could do stuff like that I'd be the star of my A.A.R.P. Luther? Why was this so hard?
I wish it was true.  Your robber actually went in the front door but came out down a rope in the dark in the middle of the night?  Luther? Why was this so hard?
Luther? Why was this so hard?
You want me to help solve your Just looking for insight. How would you scratch that how would one go about it? What kind of person do you think I should be looking for?
Just looking for insight. How would you scratch that how would one go about it? What kind of person do you think I should be looking for?
Older fella. Like me.
Need patience. The secret is just research, research, research from everything I've read.
Need patience. The secret is just research, research, research from everything I've read.
Research for what?
Well, from what I can tell on the tube, it's not a small house. There had to be an architect, right? You'd be able to tell which one from public records in the library. And once you know the office, you could break in and find the plans and Xerox them, get them back before morning.
Not just steal them?
Seth breaking in isn't hard what's hard is breaking in so no one knows you've been there. Now, after the architect, next you'd want the contractor's office and the security company's office. You know the skill involved breaking the security of a security company? I wonder how those guys do it?
Why go to all that trouble?
Papers said he kept the money in a vault, yes? Well, I'm guessing there was probably some secret way to open must have been a lot of money Five million.
gizmo looked like a V.C.R. must have been a lot of money ( sipping casually; Five million.
gizmo looked like a V.C.R. must have been a lot of money ( sipping casually; Five million.
gizmo looked like a V.C.R. must have been a lot of money Five million.
must have been a lot of money  Five million.
( sipping casually; Five million.
Why's that funny?
The way you said it as if you were trying to surprise me.
I was trying to surprise you.
There you go.
Would the burglar use a disguise?
Seth, you've got to get with the program you expect to catch this guy most likely it is a guy, am I right? Some kind of weird Maybe like you.
Maybe like you.
I'm the perfect prototype.  But you see any face often enough, you'll start putting things together. That's why these top guys disguise themselves. I read a great article a couple of years back damn, I wish I could remember where anyway, it was about these makeup experts some of them use wigmakers, people like  Go on about the wigmakers.
Go on about the wigmakers.
I'd love that but I'm late as it is got to get my pacemaker  all this excitement, you  A ) You don't have a pacemaker, and B ) I'll be back tomorrow.
A ) You don't have a pacemaker, and B ) I'll be back tomorrow.
Tomorrow is promised to no one.
Not 'til morning? I'll be by early
Katie darling, you've gotta try real food sometime.
. it is here, at this courthouse, that Christine Sullivan's killer will be tried for his crime.
Turn that off, okay?
( finishing up the In a sec.
As you know, I came from an impoverished family in an impoverished town but we lived with our doors unlocked.
We are locking our hearts to the cries of the weary, we are locking our hearts to the poor and their
Put it back on.
You said
Do it
You heartless prick you fucking bastard
I'm not running not from you.  I'm going to bring you down.
He was in the building he took a guided tour.
I've never dealt with blackmail
he doesn't want money
you a mind reader too?
No, I just looked on the back 
'I don't want money.'
This guy sure has the guts of a burglar. Wish we had him.
You finished your recruiting speech? Because I'd like to know how I handle this.
Like you handled the letter
Gee, Bill, that could be construed as criticism. Do you really want me as an enemy?
Miss Russell, I should have called the police that night. But I was weak. You convinced me to stay silent. I regret that. Know thisFine you win the pissing what should I do?
Nothing because he's making a terrible mistake, he thinks he has time he doesn't Seth Frank's too good. He'll bring him in.
Then what?
Then I kill him.
For a tough prosecutor, you don't resemble your reputation, Miss  Is that good or bad?
Is that good or bad?
What would you do if I just turned around and left?
Report you as an incompetent.
You're exactly like your reputation, Miss Whitney
( the instant I'm assuming your father's a big part of you
You think it's all coincidence? He's a thief and you just happen to be the toughest prosecutor in the area?
You think it's all coincidence? He's a thief and you just happen to be the toughest prosecutor in the area?
Wow that never crossed my mind you think there might be some connection? Like maybe I'm somehow compensating? I better write that down.
Luther disappeared.
I think you can help me.
Lieutenant I don't know the man he was in jail when I was a kid, when he got out my mother and I went off to live by ourselves. We don't make contact. He doesn't care about me. I've seen him all of once this past year.
Couple days ago. He said he might be going away. There. I just helped you. Can I go back to work Any idea where he might have gone?
Couple days ago. He said he might be going away. There. I just helped you. Can I go back to work Any idea where he might have gone?
Any idea where he might have gone?
Quit wasting my time if he doesn't want you to find him, you're not going to find him.
You saying he's left town, skipped the country, what?
I'm saying you won't recognize him. I'm saying he could be just around the corner he always kept a safe house
He never said
He never said
Then where'd you hear this?
my mother loved him, all right? Even after she left him even when she was dying she always talked about him 'If only he hadn't this,' 'if only he could have that'
I meet a lot of asshole cops like you guys who O.D.'d on Lady, I may be an asshole cop but you don't know me well enough to call me one
I meet a lot of asshole cops like you guys who O.D.'d on Lady, I may be an asshole cop but you don't know me well enough to call me one
Lady, I may be an asshole cop but you don't know me well enough to call me one
There's something else, isn't there? Something you want me to do? But you won't say -
How long did he live here?
Never been.
Never been.
Strange place for a thief to leave a key, don't you think?
He always did that.
He sure took off in a hurry. What scares a professional thief like
. but he wasn't at those  . I used to think. sometimes I'd come home and I'd sense he'd been in my apartment, checking the fridge, shaking his head because he never thought I ate right. It's crazy but I just knew Daddy was watching over me.
You can do a good thing, Kate help me bring him in. Just leave a message on his phone machine, you're worried about him.
. No.
It's the truth you are worried about him this isn't your normal case his life may be in danger you can save him, make the call
. He won't come.
( indicating the Of course he'll come. You're all he has.
Kate, he's on the run and he's scared and he's right to be scared because he's going to get caught you don't know the heat on this.
He's not a murderer.
Maybe you're right. Maybe he is innocent. If so I'll have him home and dry in a few hours. But what happens if some hotshot who's trying to make a reputation tracks him down? I can guarantee his safety. You make the call, I make a promiseI left a message on his machine, he called back within an hour; we're meeting tomorrow afternoon.
KATE 
taking it down.
I need to look really good today.
Never too late, is it?
You got that right.
The Boss is very grateful. Figured he'd like an eyewitness report of the capture. This is our guy if he's innocent, he sure took off awful fast.
Figured he'd like an eyewitness report of the capture. This is our guy if he's innocent, he sure took off awful fast.

( as she spins What you want please?
Nothing, thank you.
Got to.
You sit you eat please.
You sit you eat please.
This is not part of my brilliant master plan.
They both crunch away.
I'm waiting for someone.
He must eat too, please.
Oh he will, we both will we'll order half the menu but just not now
Cheesecake gone.
Thank you so much.
Collin. He holds a very high-powered weapon. It looks like it could kill from a thousand yards away. Where he is and it's not a thousand yards away he's in an unmarked van on the street, even closer than Collin, loading his weapon. His movements are skilled. His concentration is total.
I did not kill that woman, Kate.
I like that in a woman.
I like that in a woman.
Top number's local police other two are my office and I live alone, too, call anytime. Want me to get someone to spend the night?
I just need some sleep.
I've got surveillance outside. And I'm keeping it on 'til this is over. I've got a feeling he's going to try and contact you.
You're on a hot streak, I guess.
Listen, I'm sorry.
Anything unusual, call me right away not a bother, I live You said.
You said.
Feeble, huh?
Anything for the road? I've got water and water.
278 INT. KATE'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN - NIGHT 278
Pelligrino would be great. What's funny, I say it wrong?
Tired is all.
I don't think I've told you this, but I live alone. Lock it behind me.
How's that?
( still facing door, I betrayed you, Luther. You better know that now.
Why'd you come?
You have to know I'm not a No, this afternoon. To the restaurant. Why'd you come then? You must have suspected something, or you wouldn't have been My daughter wanted to see me.
No, this afternoon. To the restaurant. Why'd you come then? You must have suspected something, or you wouldn't have been My daughter wanted to see me.
My daughter wanted to see me.
The robbery went fine 'til they came in. They were drunk. I hid in the vault. Sex got rough. He was going to kill Christy, but she turned the tables, was going to kill him. Two guys came in, shot her dead.
The same two guys who tried for you this afternoon?
Probably only one of them. I think Walter Sullivan might have hired the other.
Pretty powerful enemy; good going.
Not as powerful as the President of the United States.
Richmond was drunk. The two guys are Secret Service. Chief of Staff Russell planned the coverup.
Every word true.
You're saying you're innocent of the murder? Why in the world should I believe you?
Because I swear on Mattie's grave.
Luther, going to her.
On your mother's grave, Kate you know I'd kill myself before I'd lie about that. Jesus, Luther.
Jesus, Luther.
I know.
They'll kill you.
I know.
Can you run?
I was set to. At the airport. All the money I'd ever need.
But I saw that bastard using Sullivan on the T.V. maybe I couldn't have saved that woman, Kate. But I didn't even try. I know what you think of me and I know what we've been to each haven't been to each other. And it's not the time to try and explain my life
watching his face now.
but I've never robbed anyone couldn't afford it and I've never stiffed a waitress. And Alan Richmond has to pay.
What can you do?
Not much, maybe but I only went to jail when I had partners. People betray each other, Kate nowadays, when there's a group, someone wants to write a book
This is probably it; you understand that. I was never going to tell you this, but I watched you argue a case last year thank God you got your brains from your mother.
It's dangerous outside.
It always is and I may not make you proud, but I'm not going down alone.
Want me to sign anything?
I trust you.
Russell smiles, and as she opens the package
You're a vision this evening, Miss Thank you, Mr. President.  And thank you, Mr. President.
Thank you, Mr. President. And thank you, Mr. President.
( off her, radiant, Come again?
You sent it to me this afternoon.
Well, of course. Excuse me, all I am overcome with the desire to dance with my Chief of Staff.
What is this nonsense? I'm hoping there's an explanation.
Your gift, Alan I was overwhelmed and your note was so gratifying
I sent a note?
Yes, yes, you think I don't know your writing? I assumed you wanted me to wear it tonight.
It is lovely, Gloria and you know what else?
What, Alan?
Christy Sullivan wore it the night she was killed.
You realize what this means? Whitney's been heard from.
It's not precisely the first time, Mr. President.
You've been keeping things from Only because you have so much on your plate, Alan; we wanted to spare you.  He sent me a Polaroid of the letter opener yesterday.
Only because you have so much on your plate, Alan; we wanted to spare you. He sent me a Polaroid of the letter opener yesterday.
Well, now I need time to think come see me in my office in the This will certainly make for an interesting chapter in my memoirs.
What are you doing?
( closes the desk, Needed a pen.
you don't trust me?
I don't answer to you, asshole
You're both assholes, now move
( holding the note now, Any idea who could have forged it?
I talked to Seth Frank apparently Whitney learned how in Very gifted man.
Very gifted man.
And are we close to stopping him?
We're working round the clock.
Good to know that.
He'll make a mistake.
Good to know that too.
There is one other thing you'll want to take care of.
You're sure you want to do that?
She's a young prosecutor, prosecutors ask questions she might know what he knows.  Let's get cracking, shall we?  Show you love your country.
Sorry, Miss Whitney, but this thing's giving us a little
Where are you?
I'm not staying on long enough for you to track this, just answer me.
She couldn't be in better hands talk about catching a break, Secret Service called me. They're taking over surveillance
Got it working fine, Miss Whitney.
312E EXT. ROAD NEAR JOGGING PARK - DAY 312E 312F EXT. JOGGING PARK - PARKING LOT - ENTRANCE ROAD - DAY 312F 312G EXT. JOGGING PARK - PARKING LOT - DAY 312G
. Kate.?
Scream. Go on. Which do you want most, for me to kill you or life in jail forever?
Going to guess this wasn't to pep her up.
. you're not going to kill me.
. why do you think that.?
. you could have but you
That's because you didn't know your crime, prick.
but you fucked with blood.
. mercy.
I'm fresh out.
. go to sleep, honey.
I need one answer when you interviewed Walter Sullivan, did he say why Christy didn't go to Just that she changed her mind. You know who did it, don't you?
Just that she changed her mind.  You know who did it, don't you?
So will you check your who'd tap a police officer?
who'd tap a police officer?
Is this a shortcut, Tommy?
I'm your replacement driver for the evening, sir. Don't worry, Tommy's fine.
Very unusual what do I call Luther, sir.
Luther, sir.
And are you familiar with how to get to my home, Luther?
I know the way, sir I'm the man who robbed you
and you're the man who tried to have me killed
I'm sorry I missed I believe in the Old Testament, sir there is nothing wrong with an eye for an eye when a terrible deed has been done. A deed such as yours.
You want to believe that, don't you? Makes your life a lot simpler if you believe that, isn't that right? What do you think I gain being
Have no idea you going to rob me again?
I don't need your money, Mr. Sullivan. Look in your vault I'm afraid we're a little late for an attempt at leniency.
I'm afraid we're a little late for an attempt at leniency.
Shit's coming down tonight, Mr. Sullivan, do you want to be a player or not? Do you want to know what happened, or not? I saw. Your call.
I want to know.
Are you up to hearing about it? Do you want to hear how he beat the shit out of her and tried to strangle her you have enough left for that?
I could walk through fire
I was in the chair when they came They were drunk at first he only wanted to bruise her she fought back, he went for the kill she turned the tables. Then he screamed for help. Who else was in my house?
Who else was in my house?
Secret Service shot her.
Gloria Russell handled the cover Stop this
Gloria Russell handled the cover Stop this
Stop this
don't you want to know who the man was?
It was you.
We're too old to bullshit each other, Mr. Sullivan.
Who was it then?
You know!
You fucking well do, don't shake your head at me when you're alone at night, when the rage takes you and you think of what you'd do to revenge her, on those nights you put a face to your
Stop the car
we're going all the way, it's too terrible.
it's too terrible.
It sure is.
. I know about Alan's reputation as a philanderer. but. he would never dream of betraying me. I gave him the Presidency. Luther and Walter as Luther turns a sharp corner and the
The press conference remember? he held you in his arms and said if only Christy hadn't gotten sick she would have been with you in Barbados
The press conference remember? he held you in his arms and said if only Christy hadn't gotten sick she would have been with you in Barbados
That's not real proof.
And this?
You could have stolen this.
I did steal it. But that isn't my blood and those aren't my prints.
( turns quiet now, I did love her, you know.
Is he working late? I haven't an appointment but I'd like to see him if I might.
You don't need an appointment, Mr.
. you're still here.?
Haven't budged.
. was that Seth.?
He was just checking in. When you're up to it, he said we might come over for dinner. He I know, he lives alone
I know, he lives alone
Watch it now.
. you don't have to fuss.
You were forever catching colds.
. am I going to be all We'll be fine.
We'll be fine.
WritersAN ORIGINAL SCREENPLAY
JAMES CAMERON August 2, 1988 Director's Revision
August 2, 1988 Director's Revision
OMITTED 1 OMITTED 2 TITLESixty knots? No way, Barnes. the reds don't have anything that fast.
Checked it twice, skipper. It's a real unique signature. No cavitation, no reactor noise. doesn't even sound like screws.
What the hell is it?
I'll tell you what it's not, it's not one of Sir! Contact changing heading to two-one-four, diving. Speed eighty knots! Eighty knots!
Sir! Contact changing heading to two-one-four, diving. Speed eighty knots! Eighty knots!
Eighty knots.
Still diving, depth nine hundred feet. Port clearance to cliff wall, one hundred fifty feet.


We can still give him a haircut. Helm, come right to oh six niner, down five degrees.
Coming right to oh six niner, sir. Down five Port side clearance one hundred twenty feet narrowing to seventy-five. Sir, we have a proximity warning light.
Port side clearance one hundred twenty feet narrowing to seventy-five. Sir, we have a proximity warning light.
That's too damn close! We've gotta back off.
Range to contact, two hundred. Contact junked to bearing two six oh and accelerated to. one hundred thirty knots, sir!
Nothing goes one thirty!
Turbulence! We're in its wake!
Helm, all stop! Full right rudder!
All stop. Full right rudder. Hydraulic failure. Planes are not responding, sir!
Hydraulics restored, sir.
Collision alarm! Collision alarm! Lighten her up, Charlie!
The torpedo room is flooded, sir!
Blow all tanks! Blow everything!
Passing twelve hundred feet.
Blowing main tanks!
Twelve hundred fifty feet.
Main forward tanks ruptured!
Passing thirteen hundred feet.
Too deep to pump auxiliaries!
All back full! All back full!
Answering all back full. Passing thirteen hundred fifty feet. fourteen hundred. fourteen
We're losing her. Launch the buoy!
Does not look good at all.
I need them to go to over two thousand.
They can do it. Get Brigman on the line.
Hey, you guys are milking that job.


Kirkhill? That guy doesn't know his butt from a rathole. Hey, Perry!
Do me a favor and square away the mud hose and those cable slings. This place is starting to look like my apartment.
I'm coming. Keep your pantyhose on.
Brigman here. Kirkhill? What's going on? I am calm. I'm a calm person. Is there some reason why I shouldn't be calm?
Son of a bitch. All divers. Drop what you're doing. Everybody out of the pool.
All divers. Drop what you're doing. Everybody out of the pool.
Here you go, hon'.
Just in time, sugar.
Dammit, we just got out here.
There was a time when I would have asked why.
What's goin' on? How come we got recalled?
Hell is I know.
Just follow standard procedure, will ya. flog the dog till somebody tells us what's Hey, Catfish, I'll sell you my October Penthouse for twenty bucks.
Hey, Catfish, I'll sell you my October Penthouse for twenty bucks.
Save you money, darlin'. the pages are all stuck together by now.
What's goin' on, Boss?
Folks, I've just been told to shut down the hole and prepare to move the rig.
We're being asked to cooperate in a matter of national security. Now you know exactly as much as I do. So just get your gear off and get up to control. There's some kind of briefing in ten
We're being asked to cooperate in a matter of national security. Now you know exactly as much as I do. So just get your gear off and get up to control. There's some kind of briefing in ten
At 09Your company has authorized the Navy's use of this facility for a rescue operation. The code name is Operation Salvor.
You want us to search for the sub?
No. We know where it is. But she's in 2000 feet of water and we can't reach her. We need divers to enter the sub and search for survivors, if
Don't you guys have your own stuff for this type of thing?
By the time we get our rescue submersible here the storm front will be right on us. But you can get your rig in under the storm and be on- site in fifteen hours. That makes you our best option right now.
Why should we risk our butts on a job like this?
I have been authorized to offer you all special- duty bonuses equivalent to three times normal dive pay.
Hell, for triple time I'd crawl through razor blades and shower off with lime juice.
I'm here to tell ya', you could set me on fire and call me names.
Look, I don't know what kind of a deal you guys worked out with the company, but my people are not qualified for this. they're oil workers.
A four-man SEAL team will transfer down to you to supervise the operation.
You can send down whoever you like, but I'm the toolpusher on this rig, and when it comes to the safety of these people, there's me. then there's God. Understand? If things get dicey, I'm pulling the plug.
I think we're all on the same wavelength, Brigman. Now let's get the wellhead uncoupled, shall we?
When Lindsey finds out about this, it's not gonna be a pretty sight.
They're going to have to shoot her with a tranquilizer gun.
No way I'm putting her down. I shouldn't even be flying in this shit.

You want to be on that ship, there's only one way it's going to happen.
Fred, huh? I don't know. Hurricanes should be named after women.
I can't believe you let them do this!
Hi, Lins. I thought you were in Houston.
I was, but I managed to bum a ride on the last flight out here. Only here isn't where I left it, is it, Bud?
Wasn't up to me.
We were that close to proving a submersible drilling platform could work. We had over seven thousand feet of hole down for Chrissake. I can't believe you let them grab my rig!
Your rig?
My rig. I designed the damn thing.
Yup, a Benthic Petroleum paid for it. So as long as they're hold the pink slip, I go where they tell me.
You wimp. I had a lot riding on this. They bought you. more like least rented you cheap
I'm switching off now.
Virgil, you wiener! You never could stand up to fight. You
Hippy looks over him, trying very hard not to crack up.
God, I hate that bitch.
God, I hate that bitch.
Yeah, well you never should have married her then.
Let's go, gentlemen! We either launch now or we don't launch.
Take her up, Byron!
What the hell is she doing out there? Son of a Lindsey. get out of Cab Three. Bates is taking her down.
Bates is sick. Besides I've got more hours in this thing than he does. A little change of plan.
Lady, we better fish or cut bait.
Just hold your water, okay? So Kirkhill, we gonna do this or we gonna talk about it?
I don't care who drives the damn thing. Just get my team in the water.
Alright, alright. Christ Almighty!
Cab Three, you are clear to launch.

Touchdown. The crowd goes wild. Explorer. Cab Three. We are styling. Roger, Cab Three.
Oh no. you gotta be kidding me.
Howdy, y'all. Hey, Lindsey! I'll be damned! You shouldn't be down here sweet thing, ya'll might run ya stockings.
Couldn't stay away. You running mixture for us? Good. Couldn't ask for better.
Okay, here we go. Start equalizing, y'all.
Get comfortable. The bad news is we got six hours in this can, blowing down. The worse news is it's gonna take us three weeks to decompress back to the surface later.
We've been fully briefed, Mrs. Brigman.
Don't call me that, okay. I hate that. Alright, from now on we watch each other closely for signs of HPNS.

Very good. About one person in twenty just can't handle it. They go buggo. They're no way to predict who's susceptible, so stay alert.
Look, we've all made chamber runs to this depth. We're checked out.
Oh. chamber runs. Uh huh, that's good. Well, hey. you guys know any songs?
Those guys ain't so tough. I fought plenty of guys tougher'n them.
Now we get to hear about how he used to be a
You see this? They used to call this the Hammer.
Hippy wasn't born then.
Curiosity killed the cat.
Y'all'er done to a turn and ready to serve. Everybody okay?
Hey, was there a wall here before? I don't remember a wall here. Oh, Jammer! Hi.
Howdy, there, little lady.

Those guys are about a much fun as a tax audit.
Hippy, you're going to give that rat a disease.
Well, well. Mrs. Brigman.
Not for long.
You never did like being called that, did you?
Not even when it meant something. Is that One Night up in Flatbed?
Who else?
Hi, One Night, it's Lindsey.
Oh, hi, Lindsey.
I can't believe you were dumb enough to come down. Now you're stuck here for the storm. dumb, hot-rod. dumb.
Look, I didn't come down here to fight.
Then why'd you come down?
You need me. Nobody knows the systems on this rig better than I do. What is something was to go wrong after the Explorer clears off? What would have you done?
Wow, you're right! Us poor dumb ol' boys might've had to think for ourselves. Coulda been a

Not particularly. Jeez, look where this is set!
I think you were worried about me.
That must be it.
No, I think you were. Come on, admit it.
I was worried about the rig. I've got over four years invested in this project.
Oh, yeah, right. and you only had three years with me.
You've got to have priorities.
My bunk's the only one I can guarantee won't be occupied. You can grab a couple hours before we get there.
What are you still wearing that for?
I don't know. Divorce ain't final. Forgot to take it off.
I haven't worn mine in months.
Yeah, what's-his-name wouldn't like it. The Do you always have to call him that? The Suit? It makes you sound like such a hick. His name is Michael.
Do you always have to call him that? The Suit? It makes you sound like such a hick. His name is Michael.
So what about "Michael" then. Mr. Brooks Brothers. Mr. BMW. You still seeing him?
No, I haven't seen him in a few weeks.
What happened?
Bud, why are you doing this? It's not part of you life any more.
I'll tell you what happened. you woke up one day and realized the guy never made you laugh.
You're right, Bud. It was just that simple. Aren't you clever? You should get your own show. Ask Dr. Bud, advice to the lovelorn from three hundred fathoms.
She flops down on the bed, sitting. staring at the wall. Her armor is gone. She looks small and vulnerable. A long beat. She reaches over to the tiny sink. Amid the clutter is a bottle of Bud's aftershave. She unscrews it and takes a sniff. Catches herself. Tosses it.
She flops down on the bed, sitting. staring at the wall. Her armor is gone. She looks small and vulnerable. A long beat. She reaches over to the tiny sink. Amid the clutter is a bottle of Bud's aftershave. She unscrews it and takes a sniff. Catches herself. Tosses it.
INT. QUARTERS/HEAD 56 Bud barges into the tiny head and puts some soap on his ring finger. He pulls the ring off roughly and throws it into the toilet. He reaches forward to flush. Can't do it. Now really pissed off at himself, he reaches into the toilet bowl, wrist deep in the chemical-blue water, and salvages the ring. He puts it on and washes his hands. The right hand stays faintly blue no matter how hard he scrubs.
CUT TOThis tells us how much radiation we get?
Hey, whoah. I can't handle no radiation, man. Forget it! Include me out.
Hippy, you pussy.
What good's the money if your dick drops off in six months?
We'll take reading as we go. If the reactor's breached or the warheads have released radioactive debris, we'll back away. Simple.
Okay. Hippy's not going. McWhirter, you can run Little Geek. No way! No way! He can't fly an ROV worth shit. I'll go. Shit!
No way! No way! He can't fly an ROV worth shit. I'll go. Shit!

Look, it's three AM. These guys are running on bad coffee and four hours sleep. You better start cutting them some slack.
I can't afford slack, Brigman.
Hey, you come on my rig, you don't talk to me, you start ordering my guys around. It won't work. You gotta know how to handle these people. we have a certain way of doing things I'm not interested in your way of doing things. Just get your team ready to dive.
I'm not interested in your way of doing things. Just get your team ready to dive.
Hey, you know your hand is blue?
Shut up and get your gear on.
I've been meaning to ask you what this thing is.
Fluid breathing system. We just got them. We use it if we need to go really deep.
How deep?
It's classified. you know. Anyway, you breathe liquid, so you can't be compressed. Pressure doesn't get to you.
You're saying you get liquid in your lungs?
Oxygenated fluorocarbon emulsion. Check this out. See? He's diggin' it. This is no bullshit hands down the goddamnedest thing I ever saw.
Check this out. See? He's diggin' it. This is no bullshit hands down the goddamnedest thing I ever saw.
Check this out. See? He's diggin' it. This is no bullshit hands down the goddamnedest thing I ever saw.
See? He's diggin' it. This is no bullshit hands down the goddamnedest thing I ever saw.
This is no bullshit hands down the goddamnedest thing I ever saw.
Com-check, everybody. Flatbed, you on line?
Ten-four, Lindsey, read you loud and clear.
Cab Three?
Cab Three, check. Right behind you.
1840. 50. 60. 70. Going over the wall. Coming to bearing 065. Everybody stay tight and in sight.
Going over the wall. Coming to bearing 065. Everybody stay tight and in sight.
Starting out descent. Divers, how're you doing?
Okay so far.
How deep's the drop-off here?
This here's the bottomless pit, baby. Two and a half miles straight down.
Knock off the chatter. Cab One, you getting
Cab One, do you see it yet?
The magnetometer is pegged. Side-scan is showing a big return, but I don't see anything yet. Are you sure you got the depth right on this? You should be almost to it, ace.
Uh, yeah, roger that. uh, found it.
Cab One, radiation readings?
Neutron counter's not showing very much.
Wilhite, anything?
Negative. Nominal.
Just continue forward along the hull.
Copy that, continuing forward. You just want me to get shots of everything, right?
Roger, document as much as you can, but keep moving. We're on a tight timeline.
Copy that.
That's the midship hatch. You see it, Cab Three?
Roger, I see it.
Just get around so your lights are on the hatch.
Check. Then I just hang with these guys, right?
ONE NIGHT
How do you want me?
Just hold above it. Alright, A team.
Perry, stand by on the ROV. Sorry about this, little buddy. Better you than me, know what I mean?
It's flooded. Alright, I'm opening her up.
How many are there?
That's 192 warheads. And how powerful are Your MIRV is a tactical nuke, 50 kilotons nominal yield. Say times time Hiroshima.
Your MIRV is a tactical nuke, 50 kilotons nominal yield. Say times time Hiroshima.
It's twitching but it's below the line you said was safe.
Alright. Let's get in there.
We'll go in through that large breach.
Let's go, guys.
Take it slow, stay on the line, and stay in sight. Watch for hatches that could close on you, or any loose equipment that could fall.
It's jammed. Give me a hand.
Alright, let's keep moving. We knew we were going to see this.
How you guys doing?
I'm alright, I'm dealing.
Triple time sounds like a lotta money, Bud. It ain't. I'm sorry.
We're here now. Let's get her done.
This part I do alone. Brigman, take you men and continue aft. Split up into two teams of two. Let's get moving. we head back in fourteen
Okay, Cat, Lew, Sonny. You guys stay on this deck. Hook you line onto mine. Any problem, you tug my line. Two pulls. Jammer, you're with me.
Where are we?
Missile compartment. Those are the launch tubes.
Lord Almighty.
Hey, you okay?
Deep and slow, big guy. Deep and slow. Just breathe easy.
I. they're all dead, Bud. They're all dead. I thought. some of them. you know.
I'm taking you back out.
No! I'm okay now. I just don't. I can't go any further in.
Okay, Jammer. No problem. You stay right here. I have to go there to the end. you'll see my lights. We'll stay in voice contact. Just hold onto the rope. Five more minutes. Okay?
Yeah, okay. Okay.
Bud? BUD?! You readin' me? BUD?!!
Bud? Is that you?
Jammer? Answer me, buddy, JAMMER?!
Hang on, big guy. Hand on!
He's convulsing!
It's his mixture! Too much oxygen!
Crank it down, man! We're gonna losing him.
SHIT, it's stuck. goddamnit!
You got it?! You got it?
Yeah, yeah. yeah. It's turning.
We gotta get him out of here. Come on! Hang on, buddy.
Copy you, Bud. On my way.
Whattya think?
I'm a medic, which is mostly about patching holes. This type of thing. there's not much I can do. The coma could last hours or days.
Negative. But there was definitely a Russian bogey. The Brigman woman saw it.
CINCLANTFLT's gonna go apeshit. Two Russian attack subs, a Tango and Victor, have been tracked within fifty miles of here. and now we don't know what the hell they are. Okay, I don't have any choice. I'm confirming you to go to Phase
Is there any problem?
Yes. I mean no. Negative, sir.
Did you get anything on the cameras. Video or No. Look, forget it. I don't want to talk about it.
No. Look, forget it. I don't want to talk about it.
Fine. Be that way.
I don't know what I saw. Okay? Coffey wants to call it a Russian submersible, fine. It's a Russian submersible. No problem.
But you think it's something else. What? One of ours?
Whose then? Lindsey? Talk to me.
Whose then? Lindsey? Talk to me.
Jammer saw something in there, something that scared the hell out him
His mixture got screwed up. He panicked and pranged his regulator.
But what did he see that made him panic?
What do you think he saw?
I don't know. I DON'T KNOW!
Hey, you guys. hurry up, check this out! They're announcing it.
Quiet! Quiet!
Turn it up, bozo.
. the Kremlin continues to deny Russian
Hey that's us!
are apparently participating in the recovery operation but we have little information about their involvement. On the scene now is
are apparently participating in the recovery operation but we have little information about their involvement. On the scene now is
are apparently participating in the recovery operation but we have little information about their involvement. On the scene now is
BOOOOH! We want names!
Hey, hey! There's the Explorer. there is a tremendous amount of activity. With Cuba only 80 miles away, the massive buildup of US ships and aircraft in the area has drawn official protest from Havana and Moscow and has led to a redirection of Soviet warships into the Caribbean theater.
there is a tremendous amount of activity. With Cuba only 80 miles away, the massive buildup of US ships and aircraft in the area has drawn official protest from Havana and Moscow and has led to a redirection of Soviet warships into the Caribbean theater.
How would you describe the mood there?
The mood is one of suspicion, even confrontation. A number of Russian and Cuban trawlers, undoubtedly surveillance vessels, have been circling within a few miles throughout the day, and Soviet aircraft have repeatedly been warned away from the area.
This sucks.
What's the matter with you?
Now we're right in the middle of this big-time international incident. Like the Cuban Missile Crisis or something.
Figured that out for yourself, did you?
We got Russian subs creeping around. Shit! Something goes wrong they could say anything happened down here, man. Give our folks medals, know what I mean?
Hippy, just relax. You're making the women Cute, Virgil.
Cute, Virgil.
No, I mean it. Those SEALs aren't telling us diddly. Something's going on.
Hippy, you think everything's a conspiracy.
Everything is.
Hurry up! Coffey's splitting with Flatbed! He got me to show him the controls, then his guys suited up and they're rolling.
Goddamnit! D'you tell him we need it right now?
I told him we had to get the umbilical unhooked
CUT TOWe're trying to get unhooked and get out of here. and your boys go sightseeing!
They'll be back in two hours.
Two hours?! We're gonna be getting the shit kicked out of us by our friend Fred in two hours!
Soviet military spokesmen have claimed that the collision constituted an unprovoked attack. This was denied
Bud, this is big time.
. US and NATO military forces have been put on
It's on every channel.
You just feel so hopeless. You can see it coming, but what can you do? What can anyone do?
Hey, they don't want war any more than we do. You think about it, you say. hey, they love their kids too. So why are we doing this?
If the Russians sank that submarine, they deserve what they got and a lot more, if you ask me, and you did. I think we've been pussyfooting around with them long enough.
Scared? I'm scared ____-less. But if it happens it happens, nothing I can do about it. Right? So why think about it?
Don't touch that. Just step away. Now!
Excusez moi.
Coffey, we're a little pressed for time.
Monk, Schoenick. secure the package.
This ain't no drill, slick. Make me proud.
Piece of cake, baby.
We're losing number two thruster. Bearing's
It's not holding. We're swinging out of
Topside, topside. pay out some slack, we're getting dragged!
We're heading right for the drop off!
Bud! We've lost the crane!
THE CRANE! WE'VE LOST THE CRANE. IT'S ON ITS WAY TO YOU!!
Got it! It's dropping straight to us.
Rig for impact! Seal all exterior hatches. Move it! Let's go!
Oh shit.
Hey! Get on this hose, you turkeys!
No! Hold it on me!
Heeyy!! HHHEEEYYY!!
Benthic Explorer, Benthic Explorer. Do you read, over? This is Deepcore
Forget it, Sonny. They're gone.
Did you find Wilhite?
He and Bud lock eyes. Bud bites back on his recriminations, but his gaze blames Coffey. He turns away.

What's the scoop, ace?
I can get power to this module and sub-bay if I remote these busses. I've gotta get past the mains, which are a total melt-down.
Need some help?
Thanks. No, I can handle it. Bud. there won't be enough to run the heaters. In a couple hours this place is going to be as cold as a meat locker.
What about O-2?
Brace yourself. We've got about 12 hours worth if we close off the sections we're not using.
The storm's gonna last longer than 12 hours.
I can extend that. There's some storage tanks outboard on the wrecked module. I'll have to go outside to tie onto them.
Hey, Lins. I'm glad your here.
Yeah? Well I'm not.
Right through the brainpan. Deader'n dogshit, Where're you?

Quarters. Level two.
That's Perry.
That's it then. Finler, McWhirter, Dietz, and Perry. Jesus.
Do we just leave him there?
Yeah, for now. Our first priority's to get something to breathe.
Cat, you tie onto this manifold. There's some tanks on the other side; I'm gonna go check them out.
You watch yourself.
Gimme a three-eighths socket on a long extension. So there you were
There we were, side by side, on the same ship, for two months. I'm tool-pusher and we're testing this automated derrick of hers. So, we get back on the beach and. we're living Doesn't mean you had to marry her.
Doesn't mean you had to marry her.
We were due to go back out on the same ship. Six months of tests. If you were married you got a state-room. Otherwise it was bunks.
Okay, good reason. Then what?
It was alright for a while, you know. But then she got promoted to project engineer on this thing, couple years ago.
She went front-office on you. Tighten that for me, right there. That's it.
Well, you know Lindsey, too damn aggressive Son of a!! She didn't leave me. she just left me behind.
She didn't leave me. she just left me behind.
Bud, let me tell you something. She ain't half as smart as she thinks she is.
Hey, Lindsey, you reading me? Over.
Yeah, Hippy, I read you. What's the matter?
Lins, how're you doing? Lindsey?
Catfish. I got a problem here. You there?
You better not say you missed that.
Missed what?
Nice shot, Lins.
What is that? You drop your dive light?
Come on, you guys. look, this is the little one right here. You can see how it's kind of zigging around.
If you say so. It could be anything.
I'm telling you what is there. You're just not hearing. The impulses somehow aren't getting from you ears to your brainpan. There's something down there. Something not. us.
Y'all could be more specific.
Not us. Not human. Get it? Something non- human, but intelligent.
You mean like Coffey?
A non-terrestrial intelligence.
Non-Terrestrial Intelligence. NTIs. Yeah, I like that better then UFOs. Although that works too. Underwater Flying Objects.
Are we talkin' little space friend here?
Right on! Hot rods of the Gods. Right, Lins? Hey, no really! It could be NTIs. The CIA has known about them for years. They abduct people all the time. There was this woman I knew in Albuquerque who
Hippy, do me a favor. stay off my side.
Lindsey, will you step into my office for a
Jesus, Lindsey
Bud, something really important is happening Look. I'm just trying to hold this situation together. I can't allow you to cause this kind of hysteria
Look. I'm just trying to hold this situation together. I can't allow you to cause this kind of hysteria
Who's hysterical? Nobody's hysterical!
All I'm saying is when you're hanging on by your fingernails, you don't go waving you arms around.
I saw something! I'm not going to go back there and say I didn't see it when I did. I'm sorry.
God, you are the most stubborn woman I ever knew.
I need you to believe me, Bud. Look at me. Do I seem stressed out? Any of the symptoms of pressure sickness, any tremors, slurred speech?
Bud, this is me, Lindsey. Okay? You know me better than anybody in the world. Now watch my lips. I saw these things. I touched one of them. And it wasn't some clunky steel can like we would build. it glided. It was the most beautiful thing I've ever seen. It was a machine, but it seems almost alive. Like a. dance of light. Bud, you have to trust me. please. I don't think they mean us harm. I don't know how I know that, it's just a How can I go on a feeling? You think Coffey's going to go on you 'feeling'?
Bud, this is me, Lindsey. Okay? You know me better than anybody in the world. Now watch my lips. I saw these things. I touched one of them. And it wasn't some clunky steel can like we would build. it glided. It was the most beautiful thing I've ever seen. It was a machine, but it seems almost alive. Like a. dance of light. Bud, you have to trust me. please. I don't think they mean us harm. I don't know how I know that, it's just a How can I go on a feeling? You think Coffey's going to go on you 'feeling'?
It was a machine, but it seems almost alive. Like a. dance of light. Bud, you have to trust me. please. I don't think they mean us harm. I don't know how I know that, it's just a How can I go on a feeling? You think Coffey's going to go on you 'feeling'?
How can I go on a feeling? You think Coffey's going to go on you 'feeling'?
We all see what we want to see. Coffey looks and he sees Russians, he sees hate and fear. Bud, you have to look with better eyes than
I can't, Lindsey. I'm sorry. How can I?
I want 'round-the-clock manning of the sonar shack and the exterior cameras. We need early warning if the Soviet craft try another incursion.


I was having my nails done.
Get something straight. You people are under my Look, podner. we don't work for you, we don't take orders from you, and we don't much like you. In addition to which your momma dresses you
Look, podner. we don't work for you, we don't take orders from you, and we don't much like you. In addition to which your momma dresses you
Take the first watch in sonar. Hippy, you handle the exterior surveillance. One Night, see if you can get that transmitter working for me, Gimme a couple of hours.
Take the first watch in sonar. Hippy, you handle the exterior surveillance. One Night, see if you can get that transmitter working for me, Gimme a couple of hours.
Take the first watch in sonar. Hippy, you handle the exterior surveillance. One Night, see if you can get that transmitter working for me, Gimme a couple of hours.
Gimme a couple of hours.
Come on. move to the left. just a little more. come on, A.J. Squared Away. that's
Pretty radical, guys. Pretty radical.
Come on, man. What else could it be?
Why bring it here?
It's gotta be, like, an emergency plan to keep it away from the Russians. Hotwire one of the nukes with some kinda detonator, put it back in the sub, and fry the whole thing, slicker'n snot. Oh, uh. hi, Lins.
Look, goddamnit, if you won't do something about it, I will.
Lindsey! Wait a second
You've got some huevos bringing this. thing. into my rig! With everything that's been going on up in the world, you bring a nuclear weapon in here? Does this strike anyone as particularly psychotic, or is it just me?
You don't need to know the details of this mission. you're better off if you don't.
You're right. I don't. I just need to know that this thing is out of here! You hear me, Roger Ramjet?
Mrs. Brigman, you're becoming a serious impediment to this mission. I believe the stress is affecting you. Escort her to quarters and have Monk prepare a
Bullshit, you can't do that. Oww. goddamnit!
Emergency! Maintenance room B. Emergency! Let her go. Do it. right now.
Let her go. Do it. right now.
You dumb jarhead motherf
Chill out, Lindsey!!
What's the problem?
Nothing. We were just leaving. Weren't we?
They can't be trusted. They're turning against us. We may have to take. steps.
Lins, stay away from that guy. I mean it.
Yeah. The dude's in bad shape. you see his He's got the shakes?
He's got the shakes?
Look, the guy's operating on his own, cut off from chain of command. He's exhibiting symptoms of pressure-induced psychosis. And he's got a nuclear weapon. So, as a personal favor to me. will you put your tongue in neutral for a while?
Man, I give this a sphincter-factor of about nine point five.
Look, you can just punch into his little chip where you want him to go, and he goes, right?
Well, yeah, but the tether off it ain't gonna be fancy. When he gets down there he'll just sit, like a dumb-shit. Unless something wanders through view of the camera, you'll get nada.
Let's go for it. We could get lucky.
Lindsey sips hers, staring. Her thoughts are far away. in the bottomless pit. She is leaning up against the table where Bud is sleeping. His soft snoring downshifts into a loud rasp. Lindsey touches him gently on the Bud grunts and turns without waking, an automatic response. The snoring stops. It is a quiet, intimate moment, a reminder of the mileage these two have logged together.
Virgil, turn on your side.
All set, big guy. Hey, I told you to wipe that grin off your face.

It's trying to communicate.
The pseudopod pulls back from her. It loops in the air dramatically, full circle. and ties itself into a knot. As the knot tightens down, it melts back into the body. The 'disappearing knot' trick. Lindsey laughs, grinning with the open wonder and delight of a child at a magic show. She is transported.
Show off.
Okay, raise your hand if you think that was a Russian water-tentacle. Lieutenant? No? Well, a breakthrough.
You done impressing yourself, ace?
No way that could just be seawater.
They must've learned how to control water. I mean at a molecular level. They can plasticize it, polymerize it. whatever. Put it under intelligent control.
Maybe their whole technology is based on that. Controlling water.
That thing was probably their version of Big Geek. like an ROV.
Just checking is out, huh? How come?
They're curious, maybe. We could be the first people they've seen up close.
Hope they don't judge the whole race offa us.
Maybe I oughta shave.
It went straight for the warhead. And they think it's cute.
You need to get some sleep.
We have no way of warning the surface. Do you know what that means?
It means. whatever happens is up to us.
You think they're from down there originally? Or from. you know.
I think they're from 'you know'. Some place that has similar conditions. cold, intense pressure. No light.
Happy as hogs in a waller down there, prob'ly.
Sniff something did you, rat boy?
FREEZE! Don't move. That's it. Here, hold this a second. We're going to phase
They're using Big Geek to take the bomb to the NTIs! We set it up to go right to them.
Oh my God. Oh no. Please, you can't. Coffey, think about what you're doing. for God's sake
GET BACK!
Bud freezes. The rifle's muzzle is aimed for a heart-shot. Coffey moves up close to Lindsey.
This is something I've wanted to do since I first met you.
You boss is having a full-on meltdown. Guy's fixing to pull the pin on fifty kilotons and we're all ringside!
What's the timer set for?
Three hours.
Shut up! Don't talk!
We can't get to minimum-safe-distance in three hours. The shockwave will kill us. It'll crush this rig like a semi driving over a beer can.
Shut up! SHUT UP! What's the matter with you?!
Just stay calm. The situation is under control.
Stay here.
Schoenick. your Lieutenant is about to make a real bad career move.
That guy's crazier'n a shithouse rat!
We have to stop him! Schoenick!!
. he's about to declare war on an alien species,
The door opens. Jammer is standing there. Schoenick is in a heap against the far wall, moaning. Jammer hands the rifle to Hippy as he walks in. Hippy turns to cover the other SEAL. Monk puts his hands up, passively.
I'm the least of your problems.
Thanks. How you feeling, big guy?
Figured I was dead, there, when I seen that angel comin' toward me.
Uh, okay, right. You can tell us about it later. Let's go.
He's jammed the mechanism.
Now what?
Okay, I'm gonna free-swim to hatch six. get inside, get the door open from the other side.
Bud, that water's only a couple degrees above Then I guess you better wish me luck, huh?
Then I guess you better wish me luck, huh?
Wish us luck. 'Case I don't die. Okay, Bud. let's go, podner, I ain't got all day.
Hafta. go on to. the moonpool. Only way.
I can't. make it. podner.
Okay, Cat. You head back.
He can't get to the door. I think he's going to try and take him himself.
He couldn't be that dumb. The guy's a trained killer. Bud's idea of a fight is arm-wrestling One Night over laundry duty.
INT. SUB BAY 167 Bud chucks a tool across the chamber, creating a clattering distraction, then wades in with the pipe in a vicious swing to the back of Coffey's knees, taking him down. Coffey spins even as he falls, catching Bud in a scissor kick that topples him. Grappling, they fall together into the freezing water. Coffey is momentarily stunned by the cold, giving Bud time to haul himself out, hoping to make it to the door. Coffey launches from the water and grabs him legs. He pulls himself up as Bud kick out. Claws his way viciously over Bud's body until he has him pinned to the deck. Then he pulls out the .45. Put it unceremoniously to Bud's forehead.
INT. SUB BAY 167 Bud chucks a tool across the chamber, creating a clattering distraction, then wades in with the pipe in a vicious swing to the back of Coffey's knees, taking him down. Coffey spins even as he falls, catching Bud in a scissor kick that topples him. Grappling, they fall together into the freezing water. Coffey is momentarily stunned by the cold, giving Bud time to haul himself out, hoping to make it to the door. Coffey launches from the water and grabs him legs. He pulls himself up as Bud kick out. Claws his way viciously over Bud's body until he has him pinned to the deck. Then he pulls out the .45. Put it unceremoniously to Bud's forehead.
INT. SUB BAY 169 Coffey pulls the trigger. CLICK. Bud flinches, then opens his eyes, staring cross-eyed at the muzzle of the .45. Coffey cocks it and tries again. CLICK. Nothing. Really pissed off beyond description, Bud hurls the commando off him with a powerful heave, sending him clattering against a rack of equipment. They face off, panting.
INT. SUB BAY 169 Coffey pulls the trigger. CLICK. Bud flinches, then opens his eyes, staring cross-eyed at the muzzle of the .45. Coffey cocks it and tries again. CLICK. Nothing. Really pissed off beyond description, Bud hurls the commando off him with a powerful heave, sending him clattering against a rack of equipment. They face off, panting.
I tool the liberty of removing this before I gave it back to him.
Catfish is right behind him. Dripping wet. A trail of water goes back to the moonpool a few feet away. CRACK! Catfish's 'Hammer' punch comes in so hard and so fast, Coffey is knocked right on his ass. He doesn't get up. Just sort of flops around. Catfish helps Bud to his feet. They advance on Coffey, who crab-scuttles sideways, his eyes rabid. He picks up a helium tank and hurls it at them. As they duck he sprints to Flatbed and drops through the hatch and slams it down.

Hippy's squeezing the trigger and nothing's happening. Flatbed's hatch tower goes under.
Hippy's squeezing the trigger and nothing's happening. Flatbed's hatch tower goes under.
Safety's on! On the side. the lever! Up, push it up!
Give me that!!
Give me that!!
Give me that!!
Forget that. go for Big Geek!
Gimme a hand!
Get the rest of my gear. Grab that hat there. let's go guys! Come on, come on!
Helmet. helmet! Work fast.
I'll unhook. GO! You're better in these than I am.
You owe me one, Virgil.
Can we negotiate later? There's Big Geek.
Go after it! We gotta catch it!
You did okay, back there. I was fairly Not good enough. We still gotta catch Big Geek.
Not good enough. We still gotta catch Big Geek.
Not in this thing.
You totaled it, huh?
Yeah. So sue me.
It's flooding like a son of the bitch.
You noticed.
Deepcore, Deepcore, this is Cab One, over.
Try again.
Deepcore, this is Cab One. We need assistance, over. Deepcore, this
Well, that's that.

Over there. It's the rig.
Good hundred yards, I'd say.
They'll come out after us.
Yeah, but it's gonna take them a while to find us. We better get this flooding stopped.
You see where it's coming in?
Somewhere behind this panel. Hold this.
Can't get to it. Have to pull this panel off. You go any tools?
I don't know, look around. Nothing. Son of a bitch. All I need's a goddamn crescent wrench.
Nothing. Son of a bitch. All I need's a goddamn crescent wrench.
Son of a bitch!
Calm down, Bud.
Okay. okay. We gotta get you out of here.
I don't know how!
I don't know how!
We've only got one suit.
I know! I know! But we better come up with Aaargh!! I'm freezing!
Aaargh!! I'm freezing!
Okay, look, you swim to the rig and come back with another suit.
Seven, eight minute swim each way. not enough time. Look at this. Time I get back you'll be
Alright, put this on.
What, you growing gills all of a sudden? You got it on, keep it on.
Don't argue, goddamnit, just
No way! Forget it. Not an option.
Lindsey, just put the thing on and shut up
NO!! Now be logical, Bud, you're
FUCK LOGIC!!
They're both right up against the ceiling, water up to their chests. Lindsey's lips are blue and trembling from the cold.
Listen. will you listen to me for a second!? You're for the suit on and you're a better swimmer than me. Right? So I got a plan.
What's the plan?
I drown, you tow me back to the rig
WHAT KIND OF PLAN IS THAT!??
Look, this water is only a couple degrees above freezing. I drown. I go into deep hypothermia. my blood like icewater. I can maybe be revived after ten, fifteen minutes. You got all the stuff to do it on the rig.
It is insane.
It's the only way, Bud. Now trust me.
Jesus, I don't believe this is happening.
Oh God, Lins. I
Tell me later. This is maybe not such a great plan, is it?
This is maybe not such a great plan, is it?
Hold me. Hold me, Bud. I'm so scared.
The freezing seawater races into her lungs. Her finger go slack, and her hands float lifelessly. Bud stares, transfixed, as the last tiny bubble trickles out of Lindsey's open mouth. He kicks himself into gear, fingers frenzied as he spins the wheel of the lockout hatch.
The freezing seawater races into her lungs. Her finger go slack, and her hands float lifelessly. Bud stares, transfixed, as the last tiny bubble trickles out of Lindsey's open mouth. He kicks himself into gear, fingers frenzied as he spins the wheel of the lockout hatch.
It's Bud. Oh my God. that's Lindsey! Deepcore, Deepcore, do you read?
Read you, Bud. We're here.
Go to the infirmary. get the cart .. oxygen. de-fib kit. adrenaline in a. ten cc syringe. and some. heating blankets. You got all that?
Meet me in the moonpool. Move fast.
Here he comes!
Turn her over!
Come on, hurry! Gimme the de-fib.
Here, here, here. no, you got to have bare skin, or it won't.
Jesus. Gimme those, come on. Catfish, move it, man! Come on. come on!
Is that it? Is this right?
Yeah! I mean, I don't know. it looks right.
All right. Do it!
Do it again, One Night. Zap her again!
Aw. Christ. come on, baby. Again! Do it
Come on, One Night. what are you waiting for? Bud, it's over, man. It's over.

No! NO! She's not. her heart is strong, she wants to live. can't you see that? Come on, Lins. Come on, baby! Zap her again! Do it. DO IT!
Come on, breath! Goddamn it, you bitch, you never backed down from anything in life. now
Fight, Goddamnit!
TIGHT ON LINDSEY, still. Then something incredible happens. Something they will never forget as long as they live. Lindsey coughs once, weakly, and her hands clench in a spasm. Bud see it and his expression becomes beatific.
TIGHT ON LINDSEY, still. Then something incredible happens. Something they will never forget as long as they live. Lindsey coughs once, weakly, and her hands clench in a spasm. Bud see it and his expression becomes beatific.
Come on, Lins. You can do it. fight your way back, baby.
You did it, ace.
Hey. big boys don't cry, remember?
Hi, lady.
Hi, tough guy. I guess it worked, huh?
'Course is worked. You're never wrong, are you? How d'you feel.
I've been better. Next time it's your turn,
Well, you got that right.
No, Bud, no. not you.
Who then? So I'll hear you, but I can't talk?
The fluid prevents your larynx from making sound. It'll feel a little strange. Warning you now, folks, I'm a lousy typist. The moment of truth, huh?
Okay. Let's rock and roll.
Relax now, Bud. Just keep breathing as it fills. don't fight it. Take it in. Just let yourself take it in.
Hold him. Hold him. This is normal. it'll pass in a second. You're gonna be okay. We all breathe liquid for nine months, Bud. Your body will remember.
Can you hear me okay? Try your keypad.
I already have, moron. I redid Little Geek's chip the same as Big Geek! He should take you right to it. All you gotta do is hang on!
I redid Little Geek's chip the same as Big Geek! He should take you right to it. All you gotta do is hang on!
4800 feet. It's official.
Bud, according to Monk here, you just set a record for the deepest suit dive. Bet you didn't think you'd be doing this when you got up this morning. One mile down and still grinnin'.
One mile down and still grinnin'.
8500 feet, Bud. Everything okay?
Ask him a pressure effects. Tremors, vision problems, euphoria.
Ensign Monk want to know how you feel.
Big baby.
It's starting. It hits the nervous system Keep talking, Lindsey. Just let him hear your voice. It doesn't matter what about.
Keep talking, Lindsey. Just let him hear your voice. It doesn't matter what about.
Don't forget Bud, you're being graded on spelling as well as sentence structure, so concentrate, Bud, I. uh, there's some things I want to say. It's hard for me. I'm not of those softy, gooey- center-type people. It's not easy, you know, being a cast-iron bitch. It takes discipline and years of training. A lot of people don't appreciate that.
But is wasn't all bad. I know that. You remember that bike trip. we rode the Honda up through Oregon? It took me a week to get my hair untangled, but I've never been happier. It was the most. free. I've ever felt. I'm sorry I can't tell you these things to your face.
Two miles down and still grinnin' Comin' up on the big ten thou'.
Bottom's still a mile and a half down.
12000 feet. Jesus, I don't believe he's doing Shut up, Hippy. Bud, how you doing?
Shut up, Hippy. Bud, how you doing?
Uh, oh.
What kind of luminous things, Bud?
Maybe it's. you know. them.
He's losing it. Talk to him. Keep him with us.
Bud, it's the pressure. Try to concentrate. Concentrate on my voice. Just listen to my voice.
I'm not going away, Bud. I'm right here, right here with you. This is Lindsey, Bud. I'm right Signal's fading.
Signal's fading.
We're losing juice. kill everything we don't need. Catfish, knock out those lights.
Run it through the digital processor, cook it as much as you can.
Seventeen thousand feet. Good Christ Almighty, this is insane.
Little Geek just folded.
Bye, little buddy.
He can still make it.
I know how alone you feel. alone in all that cold blackness. but I'm there in the dark with you, Bud you're not alone.
. and you lit another candle and put it beside
How you doin', podner? Still with us, come-back? Talk to us, Buddy boy.
Bud? You hangin' in there? Talk to me, Bud. Are you okay?
What kind of light?
He's hallucinating badly.
Okay, Bud, we'll go step by step. Take the cover plate off the firing box.
All right, Bud, you have to cut the ground wire, not the lead wire.
Would we see the flash?
Through three miles of water? I don't know.
Quiet, quiet! Save you air, goddamnit.
Bud, give me a reading off you liquid oxygen
It took him over an hour to get down there
Drop you weights and start back now! The gauge could be wrong.
No! You can make it! You hear me? Drop your weights. you. can breathe shallow. you. it could be wrong
No! You can make it! You hear me? Drop your weights. you. can breathe shallow. you. it could be wrong
Oh God, Virgil, please.
Love you.
Howdy, Uuuh. how you guys doin'?
You watch out TV? That what you're trying to say? That you know what's been going on up
. a Caltech scientist who is among those
They're acoustic shockwaves, like tsunamis, but with no seismological source. The waves are propagating toward the shorelines of every Yeah. I'll be right there. I have to go. Look, we don't know what it is! Okay? Not the slightest goddamn idea!
Yeah. I'll be right there. I have to go. Look, we don't know what it is! Okay? Not the slightest goddamn idea!
You're doing it! Right? That's what you're telling me. Yeah, you can control water. that's your technology. But why?
Hey, you don't know they're really gonna do it. Where do you get off passing judgment on us, when you can't be sure? How do you know?
The horizon has gone dark. the crowd is starting to run. some are just staring, unable to move. the wave. the wave is. it's. I don't know. maybe a thousand feet high already. getting bigger as I'm watching. still miles out. oh my God, Jesus. I can hear it.
Somebody just laid it down to us, man. Things ain't never gonna be the same!
Why? You could've done it. Why didn't you?
Hell yes, we read! Good of you to join us. How's that storm doin'?
Well, it's strange. it just kind've blew itself out all of the sudden. We're up here in a flat sea with no wind. But then a lot of weird things've been happening.
Well, hell, son. You better get us a line down here, we're in moderately poor shape.
They figure is was over a half mile high.
I wish I could have seen it
Hey. Hey! HEY!! Look. it's Bud.
That's impossible.
No it's not.
It says.
"THEY SENT A MESSAGE/HOPE YOU GOT IT" I'd say that's a big 10-4, jack.
I'd say that's a big 10-4, jack.
"THEY WANT US TO GROW UP A BIT AND PUT AWAY CHILDISH THINGS/OF COURSE ITS JUST A SUGGESTION."
Looks like you boys might by out of business.
Something's going on down there. I'm getting some big readings..
Whew! Whatever this is, it's major.
Active is pinging back something big. it's enormous! Coming up right under us.
Where? EVERYWHERE!! Over there! Port bow.
Where? EVERYWHERE!! Over there! Port bow.
WHAT THEY SEE Fifty yards away, between them and the Albany, sits Deepcore Two. It looks like a particularly ugly and unwanted toy, sitting on the glistening plain of the NTI Ark's hull. CLOSER, ON TRIMODULE C, as the hatch at the bottom opens. Catfish's feet appear, bicycling. He swings down to the pearlescent 'deck'. Stands there blinking in the sunlight, mole-like. Jammer plonks down behind him. He turns, lifts Lindsey down. Hippy, Sonny, and the rest, emerge into the light of the sun. A deliverance from the blackest night they will ever
We should be dead. We didn't decompress.
Out blood oughta be fizzin' like a warm, shook- up Coke.
They must've done something to us.
Oh, yes. I think you could say that.
Hello, Brigman.
Hello, Mrs. Brigman.
As natural selection works solely by and for the good of each being, all corporeal and mental endowments will tend to progress towards perfection.
It is interesting to contemplate an entangled bank, clothed with many plants of many kinds, with birds singing.
Laroche is asleep at the wheel.
Crazy White Man is now Drowsy White Man.
Two years ago I went to Florida to meet Laroche after reading a small article about a white man and three Seminole men arrested with rare orchids they'd stolen out of a place called the.
We got a Seminole, or Seminoles, in the swamp. I'm on Janes Scenic Drive just east of Logging Road Twelve. I repeat, Indians in the swamp. Indians in the swamp.
I don't know what you want me to say.
Barry, Indians do not go on swamp walks. If there are Indians in the swamp, they are in there for a reason.
We think you're just great.
Oh, thank you.
And we're thrilled you're interested.
Oh, thanks, wow. That's nice to hear.
You have a really unique voice.
Well, thanks. That's. I appreciate Very talented. Really.
Very talented. Really.
Thanks. Thank you. Thanks.

Sort of hot in here.
Yeah, it is a bit. So, why don't you tell me your thoughts on this crazy little project of ours.
First, I think it's a great book.
Laroche is a fun character, isn't he? And Orlean makes orchids so fascinating. Plus her musings on Florida, orchid poaching. Indians. Great, sprawling New Yorker stuff. I'd want to remain true to that, let the movie exist rather than be artificially plot driven.
And Orlean makes orchids so fascinating. Plus her musings on Florida, orchid poaching. Indians. Great, sprawling New Yorker stuff. I'd want to remain true to that, let the movie exist rather than be artificially plot driven.
Okay, great, great. I guess I'm not exactly sure what that means.
Oh. Well. I'm not sure exactly yet either. So. y'know, it's.
Oh. Okay. Great. So, um, what
It's just, I don't want to compromise by making it a Hollywood product. An orchid heist movie. Or changing the orchids into poppies and turning it into a movie about drug running. Y'know?
Oh, of course. We agree. Definitely.
Or cramming in sex, or car chases, or guns. Or characters learning profound life lessons. Or characters growing or characters changing or characters learning to like each other or characters overcoming obstacles to succeed in the end. Y'know? Movie shit. See, we thought maybe Susan Orlean and Laroche could fall in love during the course of
See, we thought maybe Susan Orlean and Laroche could fall in love during the course of
Alienated journalist writes about passionate backwoods guy and he teaches her to love. I mean, it didn't happen, it wouldn't happen. It's Hollywood.
So anyway I just wanted to stop by to congratulate you on your promotion.
Well, thanks again. It's all so stupid.
I think it's great. Your photo in the trades and everything. Pretty cool.
Anyway. Yeah. So what's up with you?
I'm considering jobs. Mostly crap. There's one you might like, about Flowers? Really? What is it?
Flowers? Really? What is it?
They want me to do an adaptation of a book called The Orchid Thief.
Oh my God! You're kidding? I read that! I loved that book! See, see, see! I'm not lying to you!
I loved the book.
Oh, Charlie, orchids are the most amazing flowers. So complex.
I know. They're really great.
You should take this job. Doesn't it sound exciting, to immerse yourself in a real subject and learn everything about it? Blake wrote about seeing heaven in a wild flower. And after you learn all this stuff, you can teach me!
That'd be fun.
God, they're such beautiful flowers. And so sexy. Y'know? Did you know that orchid means
Testicle. I just read that.
Testicle! Can you believe it! I swear, it'd be fucking great for someone to have the testicles to make that book into a movie, man. Instead of this bullshit all the time. Something not about sex and violence and car chases and love stories, people learning profound lessons. Jesus, isn't nature
Pseudemys floridana. Did you fellas know you fellas believe the world rests on the back of a turtle? Not you fellas specifically. Although, maybe you fellas specifically. That I can't speak to. Cut it down, Russell.
.plus I love the idea of learning all about orchids. I really admire those guys who know everything about ants or fungus or whatever. I'd like to be more like that. See, I tend to write self- involved, self-loathing. even masturbatory stuff.
And it's wonderful, by the way.
Thanks. That's nice to hear. But I need to challenge myself as a writer. I've arrived at an age where I want to think about the world in a different way.
Adapting someone else's work is certainly an opportunity to think differently.
Yes. And I welcome the challenge of taking a small subject, like orchids, something that would never draw people into a theater and making that fascinating. I want to show people heaven in a wildflower. As Blake wrote.
Any one at all, ma?
A wonderful choice! And spiritually significant! Did you know that Native Americans believe the whole world rests on the back of a turtle?
Cool! I can't wait to tell the guys.
To a fucking awesome assignment, man.
Hey, I'm going to an orchid show Sunday? For research? Maybe you'll come?
Absolutely. I think David, this guy I'm seeing, would enjoy it, too. He's a real naturalist. Okay if he comes along?
Yeah, of course. Sure.
He wants to meet you anyway. All I do is tell him how great you are.
Oh, thanks. That's nice to hear.
You'll like him. He's so honest and smart. It's rare to find someone in this town who thinks about things other than this fucking business, y'know?
Yeah. That's great. He sounds great.
Like the other day we were in bed discussing Hegel. Hegel! In bed! It was fucking amazing. Have you read much?
Y'know, a long time ago. A bit. Y'know.
Well, anyway, David and I were discussing his Philosophy of History and I was. . struck by his notion that history is a human construct.
. that nature doesn't exist historically, but rather cyclically.
. that nature doesn't exist historically, but rather cyclically.
How's that Injun round-up going, Tony?
Fuck you, Barry, you fuckin'. We got poachers. We got fuckin' poachers, Barry. Ha!
Morning. May I ask what you gentlemen have in those pillowcases?
Yes, sir, you absolutely may.
Okay, I'm asking then.
Oh, Okay then! Let's see. Five kinds of bromeliad, one peperomia, nine orchid varieties. About a hundred and thirty plants all told, which my colleagues have removed from the swamp.
You're aware that it's illegal to remove plants or animals from state owned land?
And don't forget these plants are all endangered, sir. Every one of them.
Exactly. Well, that's exactly the issue. This is a state preserve.
Yes, sir, it is. Oh, and my colleagues are all Seminole Indians. Did I mention that? You're familiar, I'm sure, with the State of Florida v. James E. Billie. So you know that even though Seminole Chief Billie killed a Florida panther, one of, what, forty in the entire world? The state couldn't successfully prosecute him. Because he's an Indian and it's his right. As repugnant as you or I as white conservationists might find his actions.

Not to mention the failed attempts on three separate occasions to prosecute Seminoles for poaching palm fronds, which, I believe, they use to thatch the roofs of their traditional chickee huts.
He's right. That's exactly what we use them for. Chickee huts.
Yeah, but I don't. I can't let you fellas go yet. Just hold on while I. Hey, Barry, can I get some help? Barry?
Yeah, but I don't. I can't let you fellas go yet. Just hold on while I. Hey, Barry, can I get some help? Barry?
Yeah, but I don't. I can't let you fellas go yet. Just hold on while I. Hey, Barry, can I get some help? Barry?
Yeah, but I don't. I can't let you fellas go yet. Just hold on while I. Hey, Barry, can I get some help? Barry?
Nothing in Florida seems hard or permanent. The developed places are just little clearings in the jungle, but the jungle is unstoppably fertile, everything is always growing or expanding. At the same time, the wilderness disappears before your eyes.
Did you open your present from mom yet?
What's with you?
My back. Hey, Charles, you'll be glad, I have a plan to get me out of your house pronto.
A job is a plan. Is your plan a job?
I'm gonna be a screenwriter! Like you! I know you think this is just one of my get-rich-quick schemes. But I'm doing it right this time. I'm taking a seminar!
Screenwriting seminars are bullshit.
Donald, don't say "industry."
I'm sorry, I forgot. Charles, this guy knows screenwriting. People from all over come to study his method. I'll pay you back, man. As soon as I sell
Let me explain something to you.
Yeah, okay.
Anybody who says he's got "the answer" is going to attract desperate people. Be it in the world of religion
I just need to lie down while you explain this to me. Sorry. I apologize.  Okay, go ahead. Sorry. Okay. Go.
There are no rules to follow, Donald, and anybody who says there are, is just
Not rules, principles. McKee writesThe script I'm starting, it's about flowers. No one's ever done a movie about flowers before. So, there're no guidelines, and that's good because
What about Flowers for Algernon?
That's not about flowers. And it's not a Oh, okay, I never saw it. Go ahead.
Oh, okay, I never saw it. Go ahead.
My point is, those teachers are dangerous if your goal is to do something new. And a writer should always have that goal. Writing is a journey into the unknown. It's not building a model airplane. Each being is, because posited, an op- posited, a conditional and conditioning, the Understanding completes these its limitations by positing the opposite.
McKee is a former Fulbright scholar. Are you a former Fulbright scholar, Charles?
Turtles are of the order Testudine!
Really? Testudine?
Yeah. And they're found on every continent! Except Antarptica!
Antarctica. Every continent, huh?
Uh-huh. The turtle shell has remained unchanged for two hundred million years! And there's all different kinds, Pelusio gabonensis, Phyrnops rufipes, Chitra indica, Dermochelys coriacea coriacea.
. and what we have here, my friend, is . thirteen Encyclia Cochleata. four Encyclia Tampensis
I'm sorry, Encyclia what?
Coch-le-ata. Tem-pen-sis.  Okay, let's see, twenty-two Epidendrum Nocturnum. A very good haul. Two Catopsi Floribunda. Three Polyrrhiza Lindenii, the ghost orchid. What I really came for. These sweeties grow nowhere in the U.S. except in your swamp.
That true? Boy, you really know your plants, Mr. Laroche.
Yeah. I do. I'm one of the world's foremost experts. But that'll all be revealed at the hearing.
Maybe you should watch what you eat, Donald. Did you ever consider maybe you're a bit fat? Does it ever occur to you, you kind of represent me in the world? That people look at you and think, he's Charlie's twin, therefore that's what Charlie must look like?
By the way, mom's paying for the seminar.
Did you even hear what I said?
Yeah. Anyway. I pitched mom my Jesus, don't say "pitch."
Jesus, don't say "pitch."
Sorry. Anyway, she loved my. telling of my story to her. She said it's like "Silence of the Lambs" meets "Psycho."
Hey, maybe you and mom could collaborate. I hear she's really good with structure.
You think you're so superior, Charles. Well, I'm really gonna write this. And you'll see. And, and. you suck, okay?
Florida is a landscape of transition and mutation, a hybrid of unruliness and orderliness, nature and artifice.
Finally, Mr. Laroche, what is your experience in the area of horticulture?
Okay, I've been a professional horticulturist for twelve years. I've owned a plant nursery of my own which was destroyed by the hurricane. I'm a professional plant lecturer. I've given at least sixty lectures on the cultivation of plants. I'm a published author, both in magazine and book form. I have extensive experience with orchids, and the asexual micropropagation of orchids under aseptic cultures. This is laboratory work, not at all like your nursery work. I'm probably the smartest person I know.
Thank you.
You're very welcome.
The door opens. Donald stands there for a moment in shadows.
Look, you wanna hear my pitch, or what?
Go away. God damn it.
Y'know, I'm just trying to do something.
It's a little obvious, don't you think?
Okay, but there's a twist. See, we find out the killer suffers from multiple personality disorder. Okay? See, he's really also the cop and the girl. All of them. It's all him! Isn't that crazy?
Look, the only idea more overused than serial killers, is multiple personality. On top of that you explore the notion that cop and criminal are really two aspects of the same person. See every cop movie ever made for other examples of Mom called it psychologically taut.
Mom called it psychologically taut.
The other thing is, there's no way to write this. Did you consider that? I mean, how exactly would you show a character holding himself hostage?
Trick photography?
Okay, that's not what I'm asking. What I'm asking is in the reality of this movie, if there's only one character, right?. Okay? How could you. What exactly would the scene. How. I agree with mom. Very taut. Sybil meets.. I dunno, something very taut.
They're gonna fucking crucify me.
I'll go into the Fakahatchee with a chainsaw. I swear to God.
Buster, for crying out loud, I reminded her the Indians used to own Fakahatchee. Look, we'll deal with all this at trial.
Mr. Laroche?
I'm familiar with the New Yorker. The New Yorker, yes, the New Yorker. Right?
Right. So I was interested in doing a piece about your situation down here.
Yeah? Put this inSo what looks good today?
Um. Hi. Thank you. The key lime pie, please. A small slice. I'm watching my. And a coffee, please. Skim milk.
Orchids! I absolutely love orchids.
Yes. They're really great.
So, I'll be right back with your pie.
I absolutely love orchids.
A few days after the hearing, Laroche took me to an orchid show in Miami. Hi. Thanks for picking
I want you to know this van is a piece of shit. When I hit the jackpot, I'll buy myself an awesome car, maybe an Aurora. Sit on top of that. You won't hurt it.
The thing you gotta know is my whole life is looking for a goddamn profitable plant. And that's the ghost.
Why the ghost orchid?
The sucker's rare. Collectors covet what is not available. I'm the only one in the world who knows how to cultivate it. The plan was, get the Indians to pull it from the swamp. I researched it. As long as I don't touch the plants, Florida can't touch us. Then I'd clone hundreds of them babies in my lab, sell 'em, and make the Seminoles a shitload of change.
What do you want, Donald?
What do you want, Donald?
Nothing. I just read about that Swamp Ape that supposedly lives in the swamp? Like bigfoot? You should put that in your script, like, killing people or something. That'd be very, very cool.
Why are you in here now?
Nothing, I was just. Oh, one thing, I need a cool way to kill people. Don't worry! For my script! Ha ha!
Um, okay, killer's a literature professor who cuts off little chunks of his victims' bodies until they die. He'd be known in the tabloids as "The That's kinda good. I like that.
That's kinda good. I like that.
See, I was kidding, Donald.
Oh, okay. Sorry. You got me! Heh-heh. Do you mind if I use it, though?
For certain is death for the born/And certain is birth for the dead/Therefore over the inevitable/Thou shouldst not grieve. Sweet, sweet Diane.
Mom, there's something I feel I have to do. I don't know how to do this, but I feel in my stomach that I have to.
What do you have to do, honey?
Collect one of every turtle in the world. It's a long list, ma. Cuora galbinifrons, Graptemys versa, Callagur borneoensis, all the Galapagos species, people think there's only one, but that's hardly the case. Cycloderma frenatum, Cuora pani. I don't think my life is worth living if I can't do this.
Well, we'd better get started, huh, baby?
Wow, that's some story. So how many turtles did you end up collecting?
Oh, I lost interest right after that.
I dropped turtles when I fell in love with Ice Age fossils. Learned everything about them. Collected the shit out of 'em. Fossils were the only thing made any sense to me in this fucking world.
I dropped turtles when I fell in love with Ice Age fossils. Learned everything about them. Collected the shit out of 'em. Fossils were the only thing made any sense to me in this fucking world.
Okay, now what is lap
Ditched lapidary for resilvering old mirrors. Did that with my mom for a while. We had the largest collection of 19th Century Dutch mirrors on the planet. Perhaps you read about us. Mirror World October '88? I have a copy somewhere.
So, did you ever miss the turtles? The only thing that made you ten year old life worth living?
I'll tell you a story. I once fell deeply, profoundly in love with tropical fish. I had sixty goddamn fish tanks in my house. I'd skin-dive to find just the right ones. Anisotremus virginicus, Holacanthus ciliaris, Chaetodon capistratus. You name it. Then one day I say, fuck fish. I renounce fish.
But why?
Done with fish.
I'm still obsessed with that girl.
I'm still obsessed with that girl.
The Burger King girl? Dimples and sparkly California Pizza Kitchen.
California Pizza Kitchen.
Oh. Red hair and nice? Likes orchids?
Yeah. She's really nice. I feel pretty certain she likes me maybe.
So do you think you'll talk to this one?
Hey! Some key lime pie for ya today?
Hey! Some key lime pie for ya today?
Okay, yeah! That sounds great! Yeah!
I'll pick you out an extra large piece. Preferred customer.
Thank you. That's really sweet of you.
Still reading about orchids, I hope.
Yes, I am, in fact! Beautiful flowers.
A friend of mine has a pretty little pink one, grows right on a tree branch.
That's what's called an epiphyte.
Right! Boy, you know your stuff, huh?
Not really. I'm just learning. Epiphytes grow on trees, but they're not parasites. They get all their nourishment from the air and rain.
Well, I'm impressed. That's great.
There are more than thirty thousand kinds of orchids in the world.
Wow, that's a lot, huh? Okay, then, so I'll be right back with a nice big slice of key lime pie for my orchid expert.
But, so, anyway, I was also wondering. I'm going up to this orchid show on Saturday in Santa Barbara and I
Oh, um, well
I'm sorry. I apologize. I'm sorry.
So I'll be right back with your pie then.
There are more than thirty thousand known orchid species. One species looks like a German shepherd.
Encyclia tempensis. The butterfly.
"You will find something more in woods than in books. Trees and stones will teach you that which you can never learn from masters." Saint Bernard said that.
That's pretty, ma.
Diane would've loved this flower, Johnny.
Maybe somehow she can see it. Y'know?
So. after this one how many, honey?
Only one hundred and seventeen more.
And you have to have a photo of every single type of orchid in Florida?
I have to, ma. You know that.
I'm successful, right? I mean, I could say to a woman, I'm a screenwriter and she'd look at me differently. I could get laid. But I want someone to like me. For me. Y'know? The way I like them. The way I'd do anything for that woman walking down the street. A million women walking down the street. I don't need to know what their jobs are. No one will ever love me like that. Like I love almost every woman I see.
Once you get the sickness, it takes over your life. I started out just photographing 'em. Now look at me. It'll happen to you. You'll see.
I don't think so. I'm not prone to
Angraecum sesquipedale! Beauty! God! Darwin wrote about this one. Charles Darwin? Evolution guy? Hello?
I know who Darwin is.
Okay, opening of movie. Four billion years ago. Life has not begun. Endless, barren terrain. Silence. Silence.
See that nectary all the way down there? Darwin hypothesized a moth with a nose twelve inches long to pollinate it. Everyone thought he was a loon. Then, sure enough, they found this moth with a twelve inch proboscis proboscis means nose, by the way and
I know what proboscis means.
Every one of these flowers has a specific relationship with the insect that pollinates it. There's an orchid that looks exactly like this particular insect. So the bug humps the flower and gets covered with its pollen. Thusly.
I get it.
That's called pseudo-copulation. These flowers are smart! You gotta fall in love with them. Once you learn anything about orchids, you'll devote your life to learning everything about them.
I wanted to want something as much as people wanted these plants but it isn't part of my constitution. I suppose I do have one unembarrassed I want to know how it feels to care about something passionately.
McKee is a genius! And hilarious! He just comes up with these great jokes, and everyone laughs! But he's serious, too. You'd love him. He's all for originality, just like you! But he says, we have to realize we all write in a genre, so we must find originality within that genre. See, it turns out there hasn't been a new genre since Fellini invented the mockumentary!
You and I share the same DNA. Is there anything more lonely than that?
You want to do something tonight?
I should work. I've got stuff.
Asclepiadaceae. From thirty yards. Yes.
. I broke my back. Exactly how my dad did. Isn't that a psycho coincidence?  Y'know, the way I see it, we're a family of ailments and pain.  But, anyway, it was a godsend.
I consider the broken back in three places, by the way. I have x-rays a stroke of goddamn luck. I got disability, married the sweetest woman in the world. And me and my lovely new wife my now ex-wife, the bitch got to open our nursery.
People started coming out of the woodwork, to ask me stuff, to admire my plants, to admire me.
John, what is this? It's so beautiful.
Catasetum tenebrosum. From Peru. It's neat 'cause its dimorphic, which means.
Johnny baby!
Henry! Look at that Dracula vampira! It's gorgeous, man.
Take me in to the Fakahatchee. Show me a ghost in bloom, and it's yours.
CUSTOMER #3
Mr. Laroche, would you be able to
Bromeliad Tree. Hey, Dora! Good, good. Well, sure, you gotta watch the temperature. Don't want an odontoglossum above seventy-five. Uh-huh, that should be fine. Yeah, damp it down. Oh, I'm doing well. She's fine, too. Sure.
I believe some folks'd call me up to talk and just talk because they were lonely. You know why I love plants? Because they're so mutable, so adaptable. Adaptation is such a profound process. Adaptation means you figure out how to survive in the world. People aren't too good at that sometimes.
I don't know how to adapt this. I should've just stuck with my own stuff. I don't know why I thought I could
See her? I fucked her up the ass.
Just kidding. Hey, maybe I can help. What's the problem, buddy?
It's about flowers.
It's not only about flowers. It's got that crazy plant nut guy. He's funny,
"There is not nearly enough of him to fill a book," blah blah blah, so Orlean "digresses in long passes" blah blah blah "no narrative really unites these passages." Blah blah blah blah blah.
Oh man. I'd fuck her up the ass.
There's no story. The book has no story.
So make one up. The book's a jumping off point. No one in town can make up a crazy story like you. You're the king.
I didn't want to do that this time. It's someone else's material. I have a responsibility. Anyway, I wanted to grow as a writer, do something profound and simple. Show people how amazing flowers are.
Are they amazing?
I don't know. I think they are.
Look, what I tell a lot of guys is pick another film and use it as a model. I always thought this one could be like Apocalypse Now. The journalist spends the whole movie searching for the crazy plant nut guy what's his name?
John Laroche.
She has to travel deep into the darkest swamps to find the mysterious "Laroche."
I need you to get me out of this.
Charlie, at the end of the day, I think it would be a terrible career move.
Jumble of imagesThe nursery was going well, but sometimes bad things happen. Darkness descends.
Sure you don't want to come, dad?
Nursery business good, Johnny?
Everything's good, Uncle Jim. This last year's been a dream, I'm telling you. We're finally pulling out of this debt.
Amen, honey. Praise Allah, Buddha, Vishnu. And all the rest of 'em.
She divorced me soon after she regained consciousness. Then the hurricane destroyed my greenhouse. Everything. I knew it would break my heart to start another nursery, so when the Seminoles wanted a white guy, an expert, to get their nursery going, I took it.
But I wasn't gonna give them a conventional little potted-plant place. So I came up with the "ghost" plan. I was gonna give them something amazing.
. see, Laroche researched it and found that Indians have the legal right to take endangered plants off state lands.
What an amazing opening! So then it's a courtroom drama. A Few Good Men! And all those Indian rights issues are so complex. There are valid arguments on both sides. I mean we took their land! We gave them smallpox!
Well, actually, there wasn't much of a trial. Florida got 'em on a technicality, about cutting down non- endangered trees. Even the Indians aren't allowed to do that. They all plead no contest. Laroche got fined five hundred bucks and banned from the Fakahatchee for six months.
Oh, wow. So, like, then what happens?
Nothing much. That's what I like. I mean, most people's lives don't include a lot of drama and I wanted to sort of be compelling without having to resort to big, um. Y'know what I mean?
Absolutely. I absolutely do.
It's, like, Blake talked about seeing the world in a grain of sand and heaven in a wild flower. Y'know? Or like Hegel?
Oh, hi. Hi. Hey! Hi!
Yeah, me too.
It's good. It's complicated what I'm trying to do, but it's going very well.
Hello, John? It's Susan.
So I was thinking it'd be good for the article for me to go into the Fakahatchee to see a ghost. Would you take me?
Travelling into the Fakahatchee, Donald, is a perfect metaphor for writing. I'm stepping into the confusion of the unknown. I'm taking the big risk here.
It's dark, dangerous, as dense as steel wool. I don't know if I'll come out alive, but if I do, I'll have something true to give the world. That's the difference between writing and aping some moron's "principles."
Hey, Charles, I'm thinking of putting a song in. Y'know like when characters sing pop songs in their pajamas and dance around. I thought it might be a nice way to break the tension. So, try to think of a song about split personality.
You would have to want something very
Hey! How was Denver?
Oh, God, sweetie, I'm so glad to be home. Can I get you something to drink?
The swamp's darkness and denseness can rattle your nerves. A sailor on a pluma- collecting expedition wrote in his diaryThe swampy part of the Fakahatchee is hot and wet and buggy and full of cottonmouth snakes and diamond back rattlers and.
It's Kaufman standing there.
Yes. Hi.
So the whole ecosystem is six thousand years old. Five to six thousand years old. About that. Five or six.
MIKE OWEN
Now the Fakahatchee is the largest of all the cyrpess strands, probably in the world. I don't know of any cypress strand bigger. It's about twenty miles long, or nineteen, nineteen to twenty, nineteen. and right here it's about five miles wide, four and a half, five. So, again, it's twenty miles long, three to five miles wide. And over here
The oldest carbon dating they've done on any of the peat out here is fifty-seven hundred years. That's with carbon-14.
Why isn't it wet? Orlean wrote about wading through black, corrosive water. She said it was the scariest experience of her life. And when I spoke to you on the phone, you said wear heavy boots, long pants and.
There's usually water. We've been going through a bit of a drought. Say, have you seen that movie, Medicine Man? That's a good movie about protecting nature. It shows there could be something important in a rain forest we don't even know about, like a cure for It's not even hot. I was expecting it to be awful. Sun beating down, wading through water, looking out for snakes, wild hogs. I was thinking it would be dramatic. Alligators. Something!
It's not even hot. I was expecting it to be awful. Sun beating down, wading through water, looking out for snakes, wild hogs. I was thinking it would be dramatic. Alligators. Something!
The alligators are over by the lakes. The temperature's a blessing for us. This time of year can get uncomfortably Green anole. Florida's most common. I try to keep a log of sightings.
What Laroche did was wrong. Those flowers belong to all of us, all 250 million of us 250? I think it's up to 270 now And belonging to all of us means they belong to none of us. Nobody has a right to take them. Not me, not you, not John Laroche, not.
Listen, um, Susan Orlean wrote about a legendary creature called a Swamp Ape. Have you ever heard stories or
Tourist garbage! I don't know why people need to invent silly creatures to make nature fascinating. Isn't nature amazing  I just asked because she mentioned it.
I just asked because she mentioned it.
That night I called Laroche.
I didn't see anything but bare roots.
Thank you. Thanks very much.
We're big fans.
Oh, thank you.
And Laroche is such a fun character.
Yeah, John's a character all right.
It's funny and fresh. And sad in a way.
Well, thanks. Thank you.
So we were wondering, what's next?
Oh, um, Random House wants me to expand it into a book. So I'll be doing that.
And there'll be more of Laroche?
Yeah. More John, more orchids.
Y'know, we'd really like to option it.
You want to make this into a movie?
Laroche is such a fun character. So.
No shit I'm a fun character. Who's gonna play me?
I've got to write it first. Someone's gotta write the screenplay. Most things never get made. It's premature to
I think I should play me.
I've got all the right qualities. While you write, I'll take an acting class.
I wear this just to screw with 'em.
Most of them don't even bother calling me John anymore. It's "Crazy White Man" "Crazy White Man" is a good title for the movie. Call the book "Crazy White Man." Or, I don't know, "Collector of Hearts" or something. You won't hurt anything. Hello? Hello? Hi? This is John Laroche from the Seminole Nursery. Sem-ih-nole! How do you say Seminole in Spanish? That's right, yes! Yeah, I want to order some more of those pink string beans! Pink string beans! Pink String Beans! Pink String Beans! I'll call back. Hey, Buster.
I was trying to order some pink string beans from Argentina.
I was trying to order some pink string beans from Argentina.
No kidding.
I figure just because Project Ghost Orchid is dead, we're not closing shop.
Listen, John
We'll get into plant multiplication. Buy little ones, turn 'em into big ones, sell 'em at a profit. Simple plant multiplication for the masses.
John, we're thinking maybe now's a good time for you to take a few weeks.
I don't need a vacation, Buster.
It's a good time. Things are slow.
Y'know, the guys on my crew here, all they do is smoke weed all day. I been meaning to talk to you about that. So if it's a question of productivity
They're gonna fire me. Goddamn politics. Crazy White Man's bad publicity. I can't believe I'm dealing with this! Like I could give a damn. If they fire me, I'll sue. I already did some legal research on this when I was doing the other shit. They can't fire me. And I ain't going to quit.
Gray skies. Kaufman drives his rental carJohn, it's Susan. So, I was just wondering if you might be willing to talk some more.
C'mon, John, I'm trying to put together a book. Don't just abandon me down here.
I'm no longer interested in orchids. I'm pursuing other avenues. I apologize for any inconvenience this might cause you.
Thank you for your time.
GUY ON BENCH  
You kind of need a car. I guess West Hollywood would be okay.
I'm not recommending it. I moved down here for a change, and I wrote the screenplay. Just like that. It's a great idea. It's about a mob guy, but it's not your regular mob story. There's a twist. A cop tells this mob guy's wife that the mob guy's cheating on her. But the truth is, the cop's lying because he wants her for himself. See, they used to go together in high school. You know anything about screenplays?
No. Not really.
I don't know.
I'd smell it.
It could be poison. I don't know you.
GUY ON BENCH 
Susan Orlean talks to various orchid enthusiasts, visits nurseries, sits in lecture halls, attends orchid shows, sits in the library reading orchid books. She is bored and INT. AIRPLANE - NIGHT A stewardess places a cup and an airline-sized bottle of vodka down in front of a lost Kaufman. He smiles at her. No response. He opens the bottle and smells the vodka.
Mr. Kaufman, do you mind if I ask what type of work you do for Sony?
I'm a writer.
A song writer?
No, I'm a screenwriter.
Oh, wow! Good for you. You mind if I ask what your movie's about?
It's about flowers. It's about this poacher who steals orchids out of a swamp.
I heard about that! Drug flowers, right?
Yeah. That's it.
I heard about that! That's great! Action-adventure is my favorite genre.
How was Florida, man?
Cool! Hey, my script's going amazing! Right now I'm working out an Image System. Bob calls it an invaluable asset. Because of my multiple personality theme, I've chosen the motif of broken mirrors to show my protagonist's fragmented self. Bob teaches that an Image System greatly increases the complexity of an aesthetic You sound like you're in a cult.
Cool! Hey, my script's going amazing! Right now I'm working out an Image System. Bob calls it an invaluable asset. Because of my multiple personality theme, I've chosen the motif of broken mirrors to show my protagonist's fragmented self. Bob teaches that an Image System greatly increases the complexity of an aesthetic You sound like you're in a cult.
You sound like you're in a cult.
No, it's just good writing technique.
You shouldn't have done that. 'Cause it's extremely helpful. Hey, any sign of that Swamp Ape?
There is no Swamp Ape. It was invented for people who can't find the actual world fascinating. Y'know?
Oh, okay. I didn't know that. Sorry. Hey, I got a song! "Happy Together." I was worried about putting a song in a thriller, but Bob says, Casablanca, the greatest screenplay ever written, did exactly that. Mixed genres.
I need to go to bed, Donald. I haven't slept in a week.
Donald remains on the floor.
Mishmash of imagesDamn it.
Such sweet, sad insights. So true.
And you're. I like looking at you.
I like looking at you, too. Charlie.
I don't know how to do this. I'm afraid I'll disappoint you. You've written a beautiful book. I can't sleep. I'm losing my hair. I'm fat and repulsive
Shhh. You're not. Whittle it down, focus on one thing in the story, find the thing you care passionately about and write about that.
We see Susan Orlean, delicate, fragile, beautiful, haunted by loneliness, typing at her desk. She looks at the camera and talks to usHey, hey.
Hey, hey.
You seem chipper.
I'm good. I have some new ideas.
Cool. Me too. I'm putting in a chase sequence now. The killer flees on horseback with the girl. The cop is after them on a motorcycle. It's like a battle between motors and horses.
They're all still one person, right?
Yeah, hey, that's the big pay-off.
Well, it sounds exciting.
Thanks, man. Thanks.
I suppose what I'd been doing in Florida was trying to understand how people found order and contentment and a sense of purpose in the universe by fixing their sighs on one single desire. Now I was also trying to understand how someone could end such intense desire without a
Hello, John, it's Susan.
So, how's everything going?
That sounds good.
So I've been meeting a lot of orchid people, going to shows, I thought you might want to hear about it.
If you really loved something, wouldn't a little of it always linger?
I'm so thrilled I get to adapt your book, get to merge my thoughts with yours. I love that. It's intimate, like a Not like a marriage.
Not like a marriage.
Maybe what marriage could be.
Isn't it ironic? You adapting my book? My three years in Florida meditating on my inability to experience passion resulted in my finding it with you.
. and in the final sequence Susan as a young girl swings alone in the backyard. From high in the air she sees her parents in separate rooms staring blankly in opposite directions. This symbolizes the profound scarring their waning passion has had on the girl's psyche, how she became afraid to ever really love something because it would go away. This is good. I'm finding you.
VALERIE 
Good. I think really good now.
Oh. Uh-huh, uh-huh.
Oh. Good.
Um, well, y'know, for me it's distracting to. or confusing to discuss what I'm exploring in the screenplay at this point. before I finish. it. So.
Tell Susan I'd be very happy to meet her at a future date. As she sees fit.
And tell her how much I love her book. Say I think she's such a great writer. Will do. Just keep us posted, Charlie.
Okay. Nice talking to you. Okay then.
You can sit here and pretend to be a writer, mocking the seriousness of what I do, like some kind of fucking funhouse mirror version of me! But let me tell you, you don't know what writing is!
. we need to talk about the orchid script. Valerie called yesterday. They're getting antsy.
I think I've got it on track now.
Good. She said you sounded weird.
No Hollywood bullshit. Just raw truth. Sometimes that takes a while to find.
Okay. What's the time frame here?
It's goddamned honest, Jerry. It's true.
Oh, hey, my friend sent me this fucked- up internet thing. It's a girl taking a shit, but a trout comes out. You got e- mail yet? I'll send it to you.
This is more honest than anything anyone's ever done before in a movie, I'll tell you that. The only truth we can offer is the truth that's our own experience of the world. "The great poet, in writing himself, writes his time." T.S. Eliot.
It sounds good, buddy. But we do need to give Valerie a ballpark
I'm sick of their constant harassment!
You've been checking out the displays?

It's the Miami centennial, we're supposed to illustrate something about Florida Right. Now Laroche is part of Florida history. As a mannequin.
Right. Now Laroche is part of Florida history. As a mannequin.
It's a world of words to the end of it./In which nothing solid is its solid self. You'll have to forgive me, I'm a reformed poetry professor.
Who is that?
Wallace Stevens.
John, it's Susan.
I went to the Orchid Society Show a couple of days ago.
There was a display of you stealing the ghost orchids. You're famous.
So, look, John, I still haven't seen a ghost. And I was wondering
Really? Thank you so much! I just.
What?! What do you want?
I finished. My script. I'm done.
I don't know what that means.
I don't know what that means.
The snake is called Ourobouros.
I don't think so. But it's cool for my killer to have this modus operandi. Because at the end when he forces the woman, who's really just him, to eat herself, he's also eating himself to I'm insane. I'm Ourobouros.
I'm insane. I'm Ourobouros.
I don't know what that is.
I've written myself into my screenplay. It's eating itself. I'm eating myself.
Oh. That's kinda weird.
It's self-indulgent. It's narcissistic. It's solipsistic. It's pathetic. I'm pathetic. I'm fat and pathetic.
I'm sure you had a good reason, Charles. You're an artist.
The reason is I'm too timid to speak to the woman who wrote the book. Because I'm pathetic. Because I have no idea how to write. Because I can't make flowers fascinating. Because I suck.
Hey, am I in the script, too?
I'm going to New York. I'll meet her. That's it. That's what I have to do.
Don't get mad at me for saying this, Charles, but Bob's got a seminar in New York this weekend. So if you're stuck
Where are our supplies?
Got everything I need right here. Look, don't worry about it. We'll get crap at the Indian trading post on Alligator Alley. Hey, want me to drive?
I remember one time when I was a kid, fifteen or so, my mother and I came to the Fakahatchee to look for a ghost to photograph. We walked for hours, through the most intense heat I'd ever felt. We couldn't find one. I wanted to turn back. But my mom said, no.
He made it sound like a Bible story, the hopeful journey through darkness into light. I never thought many people in the world were like John, but I was realizing more and more that Laroche was an extreme, not an aberration most people in some way or another do strive for something exceptional, something to pursue, even at their peril, rather than abide an ordinary life.
Here we go. Encyclia tempensis.
Laroche continues walking and Orlean attempts to keep pace. He points at a tiny orchid on another tree.
Clamshell orchid. You know that.
See, I found you two already. I'll show you every orchid you want today. I'll find you a fucking ghost if it kills me. Rigid Epidendrum. That's an ugly-ass orchid. But I'm no snob. I'm interested in all orchids. Not just pretty ones.
See, I found you two already. I'll show you every orchid you want today. I'll find you a fucking ghost if it kills me. Rigid Epidendrum. That's an ugly-ass orchid. But I'm no snob. I'm interested in all orchids. Not just pretty ones.
They're right nearby. Just follow me.
Thanks. Could I get some lemon please?
Laroche, can I ask you a personal
We're not lost.
We're not lost. I'm just turned around a little. A sundial. I'll just set this up, wait a few minutes, and we'll be able to tell which way the sun is moving. We want to be heading southeast. This is no big deal. You should eat
Not really.
Well, y'know it's not really about collecting the thing, it's about
The sundial isn't working.
It is so working. The thing about computers. The thing I like is that I'm immersed in it but it's not a living thing that's going to leave or die or something. I prefer having the minimum number of living things to worry about in my life.
So, John.
Okay, fuck the sundial. We'll just go straight and eventually we'll get there. What I mean is we'll get somewhere. Out of here. I mean, logically, we have to get out as long as we walk straight.
JERRY 
No, it's okay.
Yeah. Susan Orlean.
You can't rush inspiration. Y'know?
What the hell is Me, Myself, and I?
Oh. Good.
Jerry, don't say that. I mean
Jerry, I gotta go. I have an appointment. I gotta go.
I've done this a million times. Whenever everything's killing me, I just say to myself, screw it, and go straight ahead.
May I help you?
Years from now you'll be standing around a posh cocktail party congratulating yourself on how you spent an entire weekend locked in a room with an asshole, an opinionated arrogant asshole, for your
So. what is the substance of writing? Nothing as trivial as words is at the heart of this great art, my friends.
Literary talent is not enough. First, last, and always, the imperative is to tell a story.
Twenty three hundred years ago, Aristotle said, when storytelling goes bad in a society, the result is decadence. Well, just look around you. Aristotle also said. and God help you if you use voice- over in your work, my friends.
God fucking help you! It's flaccid, sloppy writing. Any idiot can write voice-over narration to explain the thoughts of a character. You must present the internal conflicts of your character in image, in symbol. Film is a medium of movement and image. Okay, one hour for lunch.
You want your writing to be original. You want to have an original voice like Neil Simon or Nora Ephron. Well, let me tell you something, my friends. The key to originality is not eccentricity.
Long speechs are antithetical to the nature of cinema. The Greeks called it stykomythia the rapid exchange of ideas. A long speech in a script, say a page long, requires that the camera hold on the actor's face for a minute. Look at the second hand on your watch as it makes one complete rotation around the clock face and you'll get an idea of how intolerable that would be for an audience. The ontology of the screen is that it's always now and it's always action and it's always vivid. Life is rarely vivid. And that's an important point. We are not recreating life on the screen. Writers are not tape recorders. Have you ever eavesdropped on people talking in a coffee shop? Then you know how dull and tedious real conversation is. Real people are not interesting. There's not a person in this world and I include myself in this who would be interesting enough to take as is and put in a movie as a character.
Someone asked me recently, Bob, do you think Michelle Pfeiffer is pretty. Michelle Pfeiffer is proof, my friends, that there's a fucking God. Okay. That's it for tonight. Remember, there'll be a Q and A tomorrow morning before class starts.
Anyone else? You talked about Crisis as the ultimate decision a character makes, but what if a writer is attempting to create a story where nothing much happens, where people don't change, they don't have any epiphanies. They struggle and are frustrated and nothing is resolved. More a reflection of the real world
You talked about Crisis as the ultimate decision a character makes, but what if a writer is attempting to create a story where nothing much happens, where people don't change, they don't have any epiphanies. They struggle and are frustrated and nothing is resolved. More a reflection of the real world
The real world? The real fucking world? First of all, if you write a screenplay without conflict or crisis, you'll bore your audience to tears. SecondlyOkay, thanks.
Mr. McKee?
I'm the guy you yelled at this morning.
I'm the guy you yelled at this morning.
I need more.
I was the one who thought things didn't happen in life.
Oh, right, okay. Nice to see you.
I need to talk.
I make it a rule not to give private tutorials to my seminar students. It wouldn't be fair to the others.
Mr. McKee, please. My even standing here is very scary. I don't meet people well. I'm self-conscious and timid. But what you said this morning shook me to the bone. What you said was bigger than my screenwriting choices. It's about my choices as a human being. Please.
I could use a drink, my friend.
. We followed it like a beacon all the way to the road.
Then what happens?
That's the book. I wanted to present it simply, without big character arcs or sensationalizing the story. I wanted to show flowers as God's miracles. I wanted to show that Orlean never saw the blooming ghost orchid. It's about I see. That's not a movie. You must go back and put in the drama.
I see. That's not a movie. You must go back and put in the drama.
I've got pages of false starts and wrong approaches. I'm way past my deadline. I can't go back.
Ah, the everpresent deadline. Yes, I was doing a Kojak once and. it was hell. Tell you a secret. The last act makes the film. You can have an uninvolving, tedious movie, but wow them at the end, and you've got a hit. Find an ending. Use what you've learned this weekend. Give them that and you'll be fine.
You promise?
You've taken my course before?
My brother did. My twin brother Donald. He's the one who got me to come.
Twin screenwriters. Julius and Philip Epstein,who wrote Casablanca were twins.
You mentioned that in class.
The finest screenplay ever written.
DONALD 
Yeah. Listen, I'm calling to say congratulations on your script.
That's great, Donald.
I wasn't any help.
Well, look, I've been thinking, maybe you'd be interested in hanging out with me in New York for a few days.
So, like, what would you do?
Script kind of makes fun of me, huh?
Sorry. I was trying something. I
Hey, I don't mind. It's funny.
Okay. So, what would you do?
You and me are so different, Charles. We're different talents.
I know. Just for fun. How would the great Donald end this script?
The great Donald.  Well, I mean. do you need the whole court case?
Uh, it's what happened to Laroche. It's kind of important.
It's boring. No offense. A courtroom scene should be dramatic. Stick the ruling in a line of dialogue, maybe.
Um. Okay.
Too much about orchids. Get rid of it. Pare that stuff down to a minimum. Frankly, I'd focus more on the relationship between the brothers. I think that's the gold here. No one cares about orchids.
The book's about orchids.
That's a problem. But don't let it ruin the movie. I mean, for example, use the orchids in a more dramatic way. Have some kind of bang-up, crazy action sequence in the swamp. Use the swamp better. It's a tremendous fictional world. A setting of great dramatic
That's true. But
And put some twists in. Reveal some surprising thing about Laroche. God, what am I doing giving suggestions to you? I mean you're like a seasoned professional. You're an artist.
C'mon, you're the "mill-five" kid.
Shut up!  I love the Laroche porno web-site stuff. Is that real? Maybe make a bigger deal of that. I don't know.
I think it's real. I haven't actually seen the site.
It's sex, man! Incorporate it.
Oh, hi, I was doing some research. I found Laroche's site and. I'm Jesus, Donald.
Jesus, Donald.
What? She's kinda cute. You don't like her? I dunno, I think she's okay. It's not like I'm marrying her. Oh, wow. That's kind of a twist, huh?
Jesus. Jesus!
I think this is maybe a good thing for the script. Go ask her about this.
I'm not gonna ask her about this.
You want me to? I don't mind.
No, I don't want you to.
I could easily pretend I'm you.
No! No!
So you'll pick me up? Yeah, tomorrow. Ten-twenty. TWA. Yes, of course I will.
What was she wearing?
I don't know. Like a dress maybe.
Did she look at me? At you?
Finally! Da-da-da-daaaaah! S. Orlean, TWA flight 651. Arriving Miami 10I don't want to do this, Donald.
We'll go together. It'll be good.
It's so weird to actually see that van in real life.
So you want to build the symbolic charge of the story's imagery from the particular to the universal. Okay?
Okay, but when you're creating an image system, how do you know
I'll get a closer look. You wait here.
No, I want to go. I should go. I mean, it should be me, right? I mean.
Go for it, bro. You the man.
There's movement in a window in the house. Kaufman ducks.
Don't stop, Johnny.
Who the hell are you?
I just. nobody, I just
Who the fuck are you?
Um. I'm just. I was at the wrong house. I'm looking for the Johnson family.
I got your Johnson family right here.
Honey, come back to bed.
Who the hell sent you? Rudy?
I'm not I'm the screenwriter.
What the fuck does that mean?
I'm the guy adapting her book. Her book about you.
Jesus Fucking Christ. Why the fuck were you in my backyard?
I was, um, trying. I don't know.
Who's the bloody fat guy?
This is the fellow adapting your book for the movies, darling'.
Really? I wanted to meet  Oh. What does he know?
I don't know anything. I swear.
He knows about the greenhouse. We can't have this appear on the silver It won't. I don't even under
It won't. I don't even under
Johnny, I'm so tired now.
He needs to be gotten rid of.
Donald's eyes widen. Laroche paces. Orlean watches Laroche, fascinated by his every muscle movement.
Small article in newspaper. Screenwriter doing research for movie about notorious orchid poacher was found drowned in the Fakahatchee after accidentally slipping and hitting his head on a rock. End of story. Is that credible from a journalistic standpoint?
Johnny, come lie on top of me.
Focus, darling'. Is this credible?
Um, oh. this screenwriter was killed doing research in Jamaica a few years  Screenwriter, you have a car?
I, um, no, I A rental, a rental.
We drive his car there, leave it on the side of the swamp. That works.
Good. I like that.

Donald disappears from the window.
I thought I had a sense of you from your I had a little crush on you, to tell the truth. You're different than I thought.
Look, I don't care what you two are you doing. Please don't kill me.
Look, I don't care what you two are you doing. Please don't kill me.
Hey, here's one of my lines. "Isn't it ironic? You adapting my book? My three years in Florida meditating on my inability to experience passion resulted in my finding it with you."
I was trying to do something.
Well, it's kind of pathetic, dontcha
Here's me! Here's me again! "I wanted to know what it's like to care about something passionately."
You can laugh, but I didn't make that line up. That's a quote from your book.
Yeah, I know, Charlie-boy. Chill. I'm laughing at who I used to be. It's sad.
So now you learned about passion. From Weirdo Laroche. Bully for you.
You can't learn about passion. You can be passion. And it wasn't John who made me passion. It was orchids.
I thought you didn't even like orchids.
I lied about what happened at the end of the book. On the way out of the swamp.
The jewel of the Fakahatchee.
I still don't get it. I mean, there it is. I can see it's pretty, but
You'll get it.
The first time I tried it, the split second it took effect, I understood orchids. I loved them with a passion I'd never felt for anything. For anyone.
Isn't it curious? An orchid made me passionate about orchids.
You're throwing the truth away for a chemical confusion of your synapses
With this powder I am passionate about I'm alive in a profound world now. It sizzles with beauty and horror and sex. Now writing is words are a way to remove yourself from passion. So I'm done with writing. John and I are making a fortune with this extract. It's big in the Miami club scene. We call it Isn't that cute? Follow him, please.
This spot looks good. Now how do we do this? Hit him in the head with a rock first? Keeping in mind we can only hit him once and only with as much force as would be created by him slipping and falling onto the rock.
Holy Jesus. Holy. Hey, baby, hey.
Should we drown him, then hit him on the head? Uh-uh. A body bleeds different if the heart's stopped. These new forensic guys are very smart. We really have to know our corpses to stand a chanceI don't write this kind of bullshit.
Don't get all huffy, I was simply
Yeah, let's, baby.
Not now. We got to kill that guy. And now I guess that other guy as well.

For Christ's sake, why didn't you do something while we were in the car?
My back had seized. I couldn't move.
It rams them again, this time sending them down into the swamp. The van stops. Donald tries to back the car onto the road; the wheels just spin. Laroche steps out of the van.
We've gotta ditch this thing.
It's a rental! It's a rental!
Kaufman and Donald climb from the car, make their way deep into the swamp. Laroche follows them in on foot, dragging Orlean, who is admiring all the plant life.
That's beautiful! What's that, Johnny? What's that one called? I just so want to fuck that flower, don't you?
Asclepias lanceolata. Red milkweed. Extremely fuckable. But we don't have
What's his name?
Um, y'know. Charlie or something.
Charlie! Listen, let's talk! This pie is big enough for four people! Why are there two of him?
Identical twigs? Did I say twigs? I meant twins.
Cladium jamaicense, guys. Sawgrass. You want to watch out for that. That's some evil shit. Cut you up.
Fuck you, Laroche!
Just tryin' to be helpful. Walk with us and I'll be sure you avoid all the pitfalls. I know these swamps forwards and backwards. There's alligators and poisonous snakes, fellas. Wild hogs.
Wait. Do you hear something?
Donald, that sounds bad.
Watch out, watch out, watch out!
I think we're okay. Hold on! Charles?! Charles?! Where are you?
Fuck! Fuck, Donald, we're dead.
We're okay. How's your leg?
I don't know. How's your back.
It's fine. My back is fine.
Kaufman sloshes to shore. His right leg is bloody and mangled. He lifts his brother's head onto his lap.
You're gonna be okay.
No. But don't let them get you, too. You got a fucking awesome third act.
Donald, this is an awful, bizarre thing to say and an awful time to say it, but I'm sorry I didn't get to know you better. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry.
It's really. You've been really nice.
See, it's just I thought I knew you already. I thought you were me. And I hated me.
Well, don't do that anymore. Okay?
Donald dies. Kaufman screams heavenward. The van appears out of the bush, barreling for them. Kaufman rolls his brother out of the way, and limps off into a slough. The van follows, smashes into a tree, and comes to a halt.
Jesus, that writer guy.
Water sounds so sparkly. Like lemon plastic jewels plopping onto a silver trampoline! Dontcha think?
Darlin', please.
Can we fuck now, baby? Fuck like lemons?
You gotta help me. You gotta help me.
What the hell is going on here?
They're after me. They've got guns. They killed my brother.
Who's got guns? What are you Holy shit.
Hey, it's the screenwriter!
There's a thing back there! You don't want to be here.
You're right, I don't want to be here. I'm tired, let's get this over with.
I love your gun, baby. Can we trade?
Stand back, sweetness. Susie! Susie!
Where'd Johnny go?
Oh, Johnny.
I'd just stare at your picture, and you looked so sweet. I read your words and I thought you were smart and maybe lost and lonely like me. And the way you wrote about Laroche. You said he was handsome even though he had no front teeth
Oh, Johnny. Johnny's teeth. Oh.
I figured you could look at me and see something, even with all my flaws you could look at me and find something, you could maybe someday write a description of me that would be nicer than the one I write day in and day out in my head. Would it be?
You're really so wonderful.
So wonderful. I can see inside your soul. It glows with orange sadness. It's raining inside you. I want to run through your dripply dripples. It's so beautiful. I love you. I do.
So wonderful. I can see inside your soul. It glows with orange sadness. It's raining inside you. I want to run through your dripply dripples. It's so beautiful. I love you. I do.
It's the drugs.
No, it's me. It's the real me. Look at you. I just want to hold you and Oh, crap, it's wearing off. Crap! I'm out. I'm fucking cleaned out.
Okay, bye.
I can't let you go, fatty. I can't let you make this public. You hear me? You pathetic, fat, bald. You don't even know how to write! You're not even. You're not leaving here! I need a fix! Everything's so ugly!
Kaufman limps back. Donald and Orlean roll on the ground.
My brother is not fat. He's not bald. My brother is a great writer! He was trying to do something important!
That's Mike Owen. John Laroche. Susan Orlean. I don't know what that is. I think it might be a Swamp Ape. And that's Donald, my twin brother. He saved my life.
You two really look alike.
Yeah. Yes, we do.
Oh, I love McKee! Oh, hi. Haven't seen you in a while.
Hi. Yeah, I've been away.
So you studying screenwriting?
I'm actually finishing one up.
Good for you! Me too. God, it's so hard to get in, huh? Everyone and their brother is writing a screenplay.
Yeah. Actually I'm writing this one for Sony Pictures.
Really? Wow. Really? That's so cool.
That's tough. Let's see. about being yourself, maybe. It's about learning that if you can't love yourself, you can't really love anyone.
That's true. God, that's so true. It's such an important message, y'know?
See, my twin brother was murdered Oh God! I'm sorry. That's so horrible.
Oh God! I'm sorry. That's so horrible.
Thanks. Like part of me ripped away. Forever. It was a wake up call.
I'm so sorry. You poor man.
Anyway, it helped put things in perspective. Life is a miracle. All life, from the flower to the human being. You. Me. And I want to show people that. For my brother. For everyone.
Listen, do you mind if I sit for a sec?
But you're working.
It's a stupid job, y'know. I'm Alice.
I like that name. Charlie. I've always really liked that name. Charlie.
I like that name. Charlie. I've always really liked that name. Charlie.
An enormous chunk of rock, dimly lit by faraway stars, floats by. Silence.
WritersApril 11, 1991
Think of it, Thing. He's been gone for twenty-five years. For twenty- five years we've attempted to contact Fester in the great
. And for twenty-five years, nothing. Not a whisper, not a clue. I'm beginning to think my my brother truly is lost.

Look at her I would die for her. I would kill for her. Either way what bliss.
Unhappy, darling?
Oh, yes, yes. Completely.
Thank you, Grandmama.
You kids are going to have to kill your own breakfast this morning.
Gomez. the sun. il me perce comme un poignard.
Tish. that's French!
Cara mia!
Cara mia!
En garde monsieur sole! He thrusts and parries, pantomiming a duel with the shaft of light.
Last night, you were. unhinged. You were like some desperate, howling demon. You frightened me. Do it again. Gomez, instantly aflame.
Last night, you were. unhinged. You were like some desperate, howling demon. You frightened me. Do it again. Gomez, instantly aflame.
Last night, you were. unhinged. You were like some desperate, howling demon. You frightened me. Do it again. Gomez, instantly aflame.
Lousy bucket of bolts.! The FOG MACHINE, straight out of a Jules Verne nightmare, is malfunctioning this morning, struggling to churn out its patches of fog.
Granny - where's your fog?
the fog machine hurtles downwards, missing decapitating Gomez by millimeters. It crashes below, smashing through the front porch roof.
Thank you, Lurch.
Gomez is HITTING GOLF BALLS Thing serving as his tee while Morticia sips tea.
Damn you, Addams!
Sorry about the window, Judge! Keep the ball! I have a whole
The little ones, off to school. Bless them.
They grow up so fast, don't they?
Too fast.
Tires smoking, the school bus strains to chug down the road. Gleefully hanging from the rear bumper is Pugsley, dragging his heels.
It's a milestone, Tish. This very evening our twenty-fifth seance. All those years, gnawed by guilt, undone by woe, burning with Oh Gomez, don't torture yourself. That's my job.
Oh Gomez, don't torture yourself. That's my job.
Imagine, Darling, if Fester did come back. Half-alive, barely human, a rotting shell.
Imagine, Darling, if Fester did come back. Half-alive, barely human, a rotting shell.
Don't tease.
Let me go! Ignoring Tully, Margaret continues stiffly up the walk.
Gimme that! Stop it! I'm warning you! It's not a good day!
Tully is here, darling.
Please, Gordon, by all means - go.
Mother, I'm. I'm so terribly  It was just a party. It's over. It means nothing. Those Siamese twins, that hunchback, Cousin It - they're not you.
( clutching him Say it, Gordon. Make me believe it.
I love you. And I want money.
We've got to find Tully.
Look - our little boy.
All tuckered out.
So sweet. He looks just. like a little entree.
Where. where's the party?
It's over, darling - have you seen your sister?
Not since before the Mamushka.
Don't fret - we'll find her.
Don't fret - we'll find her.
Fan out. Pugsley - head for the dung heap. Mama and Morticia - the shallow graves. I'll take the abyss, and Lurch - check the bottomless pit.
Her favorite.
Up here.
Fester! You take the ravine! And the unmarked, abandoned well!
Somebody should stay behind - in case she comes back.
Good man! Good thinking!
Then who'll take the swamp?
That's the spirit, Thing - lend a hand! Let's go!
Spread far and wide over the grounds, the various members of the family search for Wednesday, tiny lights aloft, They head out.
Where the hell is Tully?
What are you doing?
Relaxing. Taking a little sun.
Have you gone mad?
Au contraire.
Torch aloft, Pugsley searches through the primeval forest.
Wednesday! Wednesday!
Oh, Mama, I was sure we'd find her Gomez reaches a stately mausoleum at the far end of the cemetery. Two proud marble vultures guard the entryway. Gomez lowers the uplifted claw of one of the vultures and the stone doors slide open. He steps into -
What's all this?
hurries down the walkway, waving his legal document.
This is a restraining order, Gomez.
A restraining order?
It requires you to keep a distance of one thousand yards from this house. You've got about nine hundred and ninety-nine yards to go - catch my I am restrained - from my own house!?
I am restrained - from my own house!?
Not your house, moustache! Not any more! It belongs to the eldest living descendant, the older of the brothers Fester Addams!
But - this is lunacy!
Fester adores Gomez!
He's afraid of him. Seeing the twins brought it all back. You're bitter rivals, Gomez - always were, always will be!
It's not so! Those girls meant nothing - he knows that! I demand to see Sorry - no can do. He's very hurt - it's not a good time. Leave it alone. Or better yet - just leave.
Sorry - no can do. He's very hurt - it's not a good time. Leave it alone. Or better yet - just leave.
But he isn't even Uncle Fester.
Do not fear - justic shall prevail. The courts will decide!  They say a man who represents himself has a fool for a client. Well, with God as my witness - I am that fool!
hammers on the Judge's bench. PULL BACK to reveal
is the presiding judge. He hammers the bench again, then reads his decision.
Given applicable standards of proof, the attempts to impugn this man's character or question his identity have been woefully inadequate. It is with no small amount of personal satisfaction that I declare Fester Addams legal executor of the Addams estate and rightful owner of all properties and possessions contained herein. Gomez Addams. I believe this is yours.
already sits in the passenger seat of the Duesenberg, his coat draped over his shoulders as if he were an invalid, his head thrown back. Morticia carries out Cleo, her carnivorous plant. Granny carries her favorite cauldron, Wednesday one of her Marie Antoinette dolls, Pugsley his chemistry set. Lurch uproots his favorite tree and joins the procession. Thing follows, dragging a toy wagon packed with his rings, his glove.
standing at a second story window, watches the car drive THE ADDAMS FAMILY - 11/28/90 92 . 130 EXT. WAMPUM COURT - LATER. 130 A two-story NEON ARROW points the way to this bungalow court Bright and awful ersatz western. LOG CABINS OF SIMULATED WOOD surround the TEEPEE-SHAPED OFFICE. The Addams' Duesenberg is parked in front of the furthest cabin. The asphalt has been ripped up in big chunks and Lurch's tree is parked next to the Addams' new home.
I like it.
Just as long as we're together, n'est pas, mon cher?
sits slumped in a chair made from wagon wheel and nauga- hyde. It's as if all of his insane, vibrant energy has been leeched from him. He's a broken man. He looks back at her as if he's never heard French.
Wednesday tends to him. She and her mother exchange a worried look.
comes from the bathroom, nibbling a wrapped bar of motel
This place isn't so bad. They even put candy in the bathroom.
That's the soap, dear.
He takes another greedy bite. Wednesday pats her father's arm.
Do you want a cigar, Father?
They're very bad for you.

But maybe I'll have one of those.
You're doing this on purpose.
We are Addamses, and we will not submit. Who recalls the fable of the tortoise and the hare? The swift, yet lazy little cottontail, and his slow but determined companion? What does that story teach us, as Kill the hare. Skin it. Boil it.
Kill the hare. Skin it. Boil it.
Put the tortoise on the highway.
During rush hour.
Yes! We will survive! Poison us, strangle us, break our bones - we will come back for more. And why?
Because we like it!
Because we're Addamses!
We're Addamses.
Here, Lurch. On the house.
We have so many homemakers re-entering the work force - your domestic skills can be very valuable. College?
Private tutors.
Spells and Hexes.
Spells and Hexes.
Liberal Arts. Have you been a volunteer, PTA, service organizations?
Well, one day each week I visit Death Row at our local prison, with my With your children?
With your children?
PERSONNEL OFFICER
Well, what about your husband? Is he currently employed?
He's. he's going through a bad patch at the moment. But it's not his fault.
Of course not. What is he - A loafer? A hopeless layabout? A shiftless dreamer?
Not anymore.
The Mediterranean, the Riviera - once we find the money, we'll go everywhere. We'll try again, right after lunch. Gordon - where should we go first?
I don't know.
Acapulco? Cancun? Ariba! Ariba!
You choose.
Is this made from real lemons?
GIRL SCOUT
I only like all-natural foods and beverages. Organically grown, with no preservatives. Are you sure they're real lemons?

Well. I tell you what. I'll buy a cup, if you buy a box of my delicious girl scout cookies. Do we have a deal?
Are they made from real girl scouts?
. and so the witch lured Hansel and Gretel into the candy house, by promising them more sweets. And she told them to look in the oven, and she was about to push them in, when, low and behold, Hansel pushed the poor, defenseless witch into the oven instead. Where she was burned alive, writhing in agony. Now, boys and girls, what do you think that feels like? After a beat, all the toddlers begin to CRY and WAIL.
Here kitty, kitty, kitty.
( reading from Monsters Of History for $200. "He was known as the Butcher of Bavaria."
Grandfather Addams! ( smacks his forehead, Damn! Not in the form of a question!
Voodoo zombies - the stuff of legend, or a living nightmare? Do zombies really exist? How are they made? Where can we find them? Call in with your comments.
After lunch, we'll try again.
Yes, Mother.
We'll find the money. And meanwhile, we have this little nest. Quiet and cozy. Without that dreadful family.
Yes, Mother.
Just the two of us, away from the world. Our dream come true.
Yes, Mother. As Fester repeats "Yes, Mother", in his drone, Abigail mimics him, silently.
So your son was brainwashed by voodoo slave masters and forced to recruit others. Let's take a call.
Mr. Addams, please stop calling. We don't know where they meet.
Mr. Addams, please stop calling. We don't know where they meet.
He switches off the set and stares at the blank screen.
I don't understand. All he does is watch TV and eat.
I know - Gomez, let's go for a drive. The whole family.
A drive? And miss "Matlock"?
Dinner's going to be late. She slams the door. We hear her whistling.
If that man isn't Uncle Fester, then who is he, mother?
I don't know, darling. I wish I did.
Why is that lady doing all this?
It's hard to say. Sometimes people have had terrible childhoods. And sometimes they just haven't found their special place in life. And sometimes they're dogs from hell and must be destroyed. Morticia kisses Wednesday and she closes her eyes to go to sleep.
I know why you've been so glum. It's because it's taking us a little longer than we'd hoped to find the gold. Isn't that right? Fester turns away, depressed.
Of course it is. Well, don't you worry - we're right on the verge. Tomorrow, for certain, my darling. You know, some people might think it's strange, for a mother and son to be so close. I think it's beautiful. Don't you, Gordon? Fester mumbles something, under his breath.
Yes, mother. It's beautiful.
Yes, mother. It's beautiful.
( instantly very sweet, Look - I'm weeping.
Stop it, you two.
I would like to speak with Fester.
We've been expecting you.
You are a desperate woman, consumed by greed and infinite bitterness.  We could have been such friends.
I don't think so. The vault, Mrs. Addams - any thoughts?
Despite everything, I don't hate you. I pity you. Persecution, fiendish torture, inhuman depravity - sometimes it's just not enough.
Gordon - let's get started.
But, Mother.
Stop stalling!
I'm not stalling! Stop badgering me!
Tully, take over! Tighten it!
I'd love to, you know that, but - I've got this stomach thing. When I torture people. It's just me.
( shoving Tully toward
( to Morticia, Where's your bathroom?
Tully shuts his eyes and tightens the rack. Morticia's bones make a horrible POPPING, STRETCHING SOUND. She MOANS, rather sensually.
Tully shuts his eyes and tightens the rack. Morticia's bones make a horrible POPPING, STRETCHING SOUND. She MOANS, rather sensually.
Tully tightens the rack again. More BONE-POPPING NOISES. Morticia MOANS again, even more orgasmically.
Tully tightens the rack a third time. BONE-POPPING NOISES. Morticia MOANS, very voluptuously. She opens her eyes. She sighs, in afterglow. She glances at Tully.
You've done this before.
Slow down, Thing! It's terrible when you stutter!
Morticia in danger. stop! Send help at once . stop!
You can't! Not with red-hot pokers!
Is this gonna smell?
( graciously, with Tully Alford - charlatan. Deadbeat. Parasite. How Gomez adored you.
Well, not enough.
Morticia, please.
Dear Fester - or whomever you are. Which is the real you - the loathsome, under-handed monster you've become? Or the loathsome, underhanded monster we came to love?
Don't ask me.
Fester - I saw you tonight, at my window. I know it was you.
I was. restless! I couldn't sleep.
I was. restless! I couldn't sleep.
Gordon, I have a thought. Just a notion, top of my head. Tell me what you think. Since you and Mrs. Addams are so very close. Abigail takes a red-hot POKER out of the fire and hands it to Fester.
. be my guest.
Cara mia!
Mon cher!
Thing tosses Gomez a saber off the study wall. Tully also grabs a saber, and approaches Gomez from behind.
Darling, take care! Without even looking, Gomez parries Tully's blow from behind. Then he whirls on Tully.
Dirty pool, old man. Never again!
This is for keeps, Gomez! Not just doubloons! Tully feints, then slashes - shredding the front of Gomez's One for you, Tully, and. Gomez ATTACKS - HIS BLADE FLASHING LIKE LIGHTNING. In a blur of action, Tully's sword is knocked from his hand and he's sent tumbling backwards, finally landing on his knees.
One for you, Tully, and. Gomez ATTACKS - HIS BLADE FLASHING LIKE LIGHTNING. In a blur of action, Tully's sword is knocked from his hand and he's sent tumbling backwards, finally landing on his knees.
. one for me! Tully looks up at Gomez with cowardly, pleading eyes.
Gomez. it's Tully. I'm your lawyer. I'm on retainer.
That's right! Now get moving - Addams, take him to the vault. And if you're not back in one ( the pistol aimed I displace her.
Tish - seeing you like this. My blood boils.
As does mine.
( touching the This wheel of pain.
Our wheel. To live without you - only that would be torture.
To live without you - only that would be torture.
A day alone - only that would be
Knock it off! The vault, Addams - right now!
But, Mother can't we. Can it, Gordon! Stop dragging your feet! You disgust me - you're nothing but a useless, snivelling baby! A stone around my neck! What was I thinking - I should've left you where I found you!
Can it, Gordon! Stop dragging your feet! You disgust me - you're nothing but a useless, snivelling baby! A stone around my neck! What was I thinking - I should've left you where I found you!
No tricks, Gomez! That's the wrong
Gomez's hand is on the right book, "Greed," but Fester stops him from pulling it.
Allow me.
Good show, old man.
Put that book down, Gordon! You don't know what it can do! It's not just literture!
Oh, really?
I'm your friend, Gordon - think of the doubloons!
They're not yours, Tully! Back off! ANGLE on Gomez, releasing Morticia from the torture wheel.
Quickly, my darling! He helps her down from the wheel.
Leather straps, red-hot pokers.
Later, my dearest. ANGLE on Fester, facing off with Abigail, as Tully cowers.
Keep the book closed, Gordon - listen to mother!
I'll never listen to you - not ever again!
I had to be strict with you - because I cared! Put it down!
You never really loved me! ANGLE on Gomez and Morticia, nearing the bookcase.
Come, my love - to safety!
But what of Fester?
Old man, this way!
Stop whining, you little good- for-nothing! Be a man!
You're a terrible mother! There, I said it!
Old man! This way!
Trick or. They freeze in mid-chant. We do not see who has opened the door, but the children do. After a beat, they SCREAM IN HORROR and run, terrified, back toward the street.
Well, it's their loss. I even made finger sandwiches. Perched on Fester's shoulder, Thing shakes in fear.
Oh, calm down.
Pugsley, old man!
Look at you.
How do you like it?
What can I say? He's going to break hearts.
Let's get a picture! Lurch?
Oh yes - in the den.
Trick or treat!
Ooot oot glibber.
Look, everyone! We have guests!
Hello, Margaret. Cousin It - I almost didn't recognize you.
Isn't he handsome? Everyone keeps asking where he bought his costume.
It is a wonderful hat.
And what are you, darling? Where's your costume?
This is my costume. I'm a homicidal maniac. They look just like everyone
Halloween - it's such a special time. Ghosts and goblins. Witches on broomsticks.
Children begging in the streets.
I'm so glad I can share this night with my family - my real family. Now that I've got my memory back.
That unfortunate woman. Filled with But not enough.
She wasn't your mother. She just said that.
Ooot oot gleep.
You remember, old sport - she really did find him tangled in a tuna net, twenty-five years ago. With amnesia.
From the Bermuda Triangle.
Ooot oot oot.
How true. Stranger things have I'm sorry, and I'm not bitter, but I blame Tully.
I'm sorry, and I'm not bitter, but I blame Tully.
Ooot blipper gleep.
Oh, stop. I'm blushing.
Thank God for that lightning. Knocked some sense into you.
Please, Uncle Fester?
For the picture?
For the picture? Fester pops a light bulb into his mouth. It lights. Pugsley giggles. Gomez stands up, having finished the pumpkin. He places it on a table, and lights the candle inside. The pumpkin glows. It has ONE EYE IN THE MIDDLE OF ITS FOREHEAD. Everyone oohs and ahhs.
You know, all the old sayings are true. There's no place like home. And blood is thicker than water.
And just as refreshing.
All right, everybody - time for a game! What shall it be - bobbing for apples?
COUSIN IT
Ooot glibber glip.
Of course - "Wake The Dead."
( delighted, to Gomez "Wake The Dead"!
"Wake The Dead"! Out to the cemetery! Come on, everyone!
I've never played this before - how does it go?
Did you bring a shovel?
Uncle Fester, will you be on my team?
No, mine!
I tell you what - we'll give you a head start. Three skulls and a pelvis - how's that? My own dear brother - who could be more precious?
My own dear brother - who could be more precious?
Blood is thicker than water, old man.
( touched by the And just as refreshing. Let us never be parted.
Let us never be parted.
Let us always be as one. Fester flips Gomez in a JUDO FLIP. Gomez LANDS - At the foot of a glass display case. The camera pans up the case. It contains ABIGAIL AND TULLY, EXPERTLY
( joyfully, to Gomez Come on!
We'll catch up. Fester runs out.
Our family. what are they?
Oh, Tish - what a night. Everyone together at last. What more could we ask?
Morticia holds up the garment she's been knitting - it's a BABY JUMPER WITH THREE LEGS.
Cara mia. is it true?
( shaking her head Oui, mon cher.
WritersThe sounds of a large crowd, but muffled, as if we're inside, and hearing the crowd through a window or door. FADE IN ONCongressman Norris-? Now REVEAL that we're flJust wait 'till you see how they respond to him.. David pops a cherry lozenge into his mouth and straightens his lapel pin, which is shaped like New York State.
Don't build me up like that, Charlie. He'll be disappointed.
Hi there. I'm David Norris. And I'm running for the US Senate.
DAVID  

What the hell? What happened to "I'm going to have softie tea, rest my voice, and go to bed early?" You have Diane Sawyer tomorrow and you have to be up at four AM for us to make it in time. David is holding ,a beer, in his left hand. With his free hand he picks up a cup and saucer.
I had some tea. ( sees Charlie's not in the
Come on, man. We're eight points up in the polls. I've gotta cut loose every once in a while and have a life. This provokes a quizzical look from Charlie. Fifteen strangers in a crappy upstate Sheraton doesn't seem like having a life to him.
Latest poll has you ten points up. A slow smile spreads across David's face.
Latest poll has you ten points up. A slow smile spreads across David's face.
Latest poll has you ten points up. A slow smile spreads across David's face.
The sound of a busy room. Then one voice, much louder
Eddie, call Boyd! Where the hell are the. Suffolk numbers? We've got to get the Suffolk numbers!
Congressman Norris has a reputation for being very direct, even blunt, in his campaign speeches, which is great until you say too many things you wish you hadn't. Then you start to look like an amateur.
That's bad for any candidate but it's fatal if you're running for Senate at the age of 33, your opponent keeps calling you an "impulsive kid," and you almost killed your entire political career five months ago with an act of immaturity that ended up on the front page of`.the New York Post. David winces slightly. This is excruciating. Just then Charlie enters.. The nerve center.suite is visible through the open door behind him.
Suffolk County Numbers! Charlie and David emerge from the private room to listen.
I really thought we'd win Suffolk.
Kings County just came in too.
He shows a piece of paper to Charlie and David. Well, it's over. And it's going to be a blowout. David puts on a brave face. . .but this is the first moment that he realizes not only is he going to lose, but he's going to lose big. It's going to be a grand,. public humiliation.
Well, it's over. And it's going to be a blowout. David puts on a brave face. . .but this is the first moment that he realizes not only is he going to lose, but he's going to lose big. It's going to be a grand,. public humiliation.
NBC has us up next. Charlie takes a clicker and turns the closest TV to NBC.
Turning now to the New York Senate race, NBC is now calling the election for Roger'Lynfield. After a shockingly poor showing in both Suffolk county and in his home county, Kings, it now appears that David Norris will lose this election badly, perhaps by as much as 10 points.
This is a.bignight, gentleman.
You look tired. You should take a vacation when we finish with this. You'll have earned it.
I'm not sure the kind of tired I feel would be fixed by a vacation.
Sure it would. Everybody needs a vacation. Even us.

Good evening, Congressman. You're in the Grand Ballroom if that's what you're looking for.
Actually just looking for a place to be alone for a minute before I head in there.
None of the banquet rooms on the third floor are in use tonight.
Thank you.
Hi. I hope I didn't startle you.
What are you doing in here?
Hiding from security.
Oh. . What did you do?
Crashed a wedding. One floor up.
It's almost midnight. They'just caught on now?
Ivana Trump finally realized I wasn't her niece. I think after the fifth; glass of champagne my Czech accent started slipping. spite of David's state that gets a grin.
Are you for real?
Life is short.
Hard to argue with that.
You're that guy running for Senate aren't you?
I'm "that guy."
You winning?
Too bad. The other guy's a tool.
Too bad. The other guy's a tool.

Personally, I think mooning your friends at a college reunion is no big deal.
At least not full page. He can't help but crack up.
Listen, I've done it.
You weren't running, for Senate at the time.
Do you still have a chance or is it He crushed me. She has beautiful eyes. And an exceptional gift for conveying empathy.
He crushed me. She has beautiful eyes. And an exceptional gift for conveying empathy.
You must .I don't know what you must be feeling.
Winning would feel better. But losing has its advantages.
Like what?
The only time a politician is alone is when he's asleep.. .or in the bathroom. After eight years in politics that gets kind of hard to She tilts her head a little, gives him a curious look.
Watching you, you'd never know it. The way she looks at him, the way she says it, David knows she sees what others miss in him even if he isn't even quite sure what it is. Not yet.
Thank you.
Well, everything happens for a reason, right? Even losing. God, I'm really rollrng out the platitudes tonight, aren't I?
It's the champagne. Brines out the Hallmark in people.
After it kills their Czech accents. She offersWhy not? I have to think up some good platitudes for my speech. He takes a gulp of champagne.
Why the hell would you do that?
Apparently, even if I hadn't been caught dropping my drawers in the middle of a senate campaign I would have lost the election anyway because I'm too blunt.
Says who?
The TV pundits.
Fuck 'em. They just wish they had the balls to be candidates She hands him the champagne bottle again.
And they work for the Man anyway.


Otherwise the-country will be run by tools. like Lynwood.
A beat. She shrugs. Then they lean toward each other. and kiss. It turns more and more passionate. When they finally pull apartHoly shit. She seems just as surprised. They look at each other and Just then the bathroom door opens. It's Charlie. He sees David and the woman.


INT. 3RD FLOOR BALLROOM AREA The woman comes out of the bathroom. David is right behind her. Then Charlie.
INT. 3RD FLOOR BALLROOM AREA The woman comes out of the bathroom. David is right behind her. Then Charlie.
The woman turns to face David. Suddenly two hotel guards turn the corner and spot the woman.
They rush toward her.
Gotta go.  Don't let the bastards grind you She spins and sprints away. The hotel guards chase her.
What the hell was that?
I'm really not sure. David has a huge grin on his face.
But I think I'm ready to give my INT. GRAND BALLROOM NIGHT David as he walks out from behind a curtain onto the dais. His supporters start clapping. . but clearly they're heartbroken. David looks completely peaceful.
I grew up in Red Hook and I don't want to shock anybody but I got in a few fist fights along the way. Laughter ripples through the crowd. We don't know enough yet to get the joke.
And we used to have a saying when you got in a fightBut I am.  But I am going to get backup. I wanted to come out here tonight and give you a victory speech, a speech I've dreamed of giving foremost of my life. But life doesn't always deal you the cards you want. The audience sobered now. Reflective.
My life changed when I was ten years old. My entire world turned His audience,. knows exactly what he's talking about.
And as I looked for something to -hang ;on to, something; to help me cope' with what had. happened the only thing that made sense to me was service. Finding a way to do something with my life that left this world a little better than I found it. The audience is moved. Tears begin to well up. People dab at their eyes.
He spills his coffee when he steps out of Starbucks. The moment he comes through the door.
Got it.
Our models indicate between 7You planned that vacation, right?
Two weeks. Richardson claps him din-the shoulder and leaves. Harry watches him go.
He served four terms in the House The blackberry rings.
prior to his unsuccessful bid for Senate in last week's election. David rushes over and ?icks=up the blackberry. He has to
RSR, one ofthe country's fastest- growing hedge funds is run by NO ris's former Goldman colleague and campaign chairman, Charles
The blackberry rings again. It's very loud.
. his . electrifying concession speech led commentators to Finally David finds the answer button as he mutes the TV.
CHARLIE  Tom Frankel from the Journal is calling you in five minutes. I just gave him this number.
Give him 3227. I'm not used to this phone yet.
Can't. He's going to ask you about joining the firm. My compliance guys say all firm business has to be done on the blackberry.
Sarbanes-Oxley. You voted for it, pal. In fact, you cosponsored it.
Sarbanes-Oxley. You voted for it, pal. In fact, you cosponsored it.
.As David pays, he notices Harry sprinting for the bus.
Sir, there's someone
There's another M1 right behind me.
INT. BUS MORNING As David walks down the aisle a couple of passengers recognize his face. . .but they don't say anything. David nears an empty aisle seat. A woman is curled up in the window seat, sleeping. She wears a funky mini-dress, knee- high argyle socks under leather boots, and a  argyle bucket cap. David sits next to her. And stares.
No way. It's the woman from election night.', He leans around to try to see the front of her face. "It's definitely her. His eyes drift down at her legs. Just then she opens her eyes. She recoils for a second;. Then` her eyes soften when she realizes who it is.

I think. we "ve met.

Your skirt was so short I couldn't help it.
Skirt, dress, same thing.
Skirt, dress, same thing.
If you're a pervert, yeah. All that matters is they both show leg.
So do shorts, dear.
Yeah, but there's that pesky piece of fabric right here that interferes with your fantasy life. She shuts her eyes and leans against the window.
Wake me when you have a good come back to that.
I have one but, unlike you, I wouldn't say it in public.
David laughs. Can not believe this woman. In a good way. His blackberry RINGS. Her eyes pop open. David.picks up.
Hello.? Hello? David looks at his. phone. The signal has gone to zero.

That ringer get any-louder or do you pretty much have it maxed out?
You're relentless.
I never sleep through the night. I catch up on the bus.
I just started a new job, today.

Something got into me. He means her. They stare at each other.
What's the deal with you and What's the deal with you and boring shades of blue? David is wearing a Navy blue suit, blue shirt, and blue tie. A beat.
What's the deal with you and boring shades of blue? David is wearing a Navy blue suit, blue shirt, and blue tie. A beat.
At least my clothes match.
That's easy if you. restrict yourself to one color.
The belt and shoes are black.
Variety is the spice of .life .
There you` go with the platitudes again. I guess it wasn't the ch mpagne . His blackberry goes again. RING-RING.
Hello? Hello? He shakes his head. It's dead again.
Your phone sucks. Don't guys like you get special phones that actually work in the middle of the biggest city in the country?
Depends what the telecom lobby thinks of your voting record.
INT. BUS MORNING David's phone rings again. As he reaches for the phone he fumbles his coffee cup, the lid comes off, and a slosh of coffee crests the brim and splashes on the woman's dress.
Oh, Jesus.
He's looking at a leather portfolio. We catch a glimpse insideI'll pay for the damage. He pulls out his wallet. There's $7 inside. She laughs.
Hope your new job pays better than your old one.
Give me your number and I'll send you a check.
God, that is smooth. Spill coffee on me then ask for my number. She takes the coffee from his hands and casually takes a sip, then turns back to him with a devilish look in her eyes.
Just let me spill some on you and we'll be even. She thrusts the cup toward his tie. David parries.
It's my first day at the office!
Tell your boss some crazy chick dumped coffee on you on the MI. It's New York; he'll understand. She thrusts the cup back at him-
He grabs the cup with both his hands over hers.


Who was that? She shrugs. Sorry, pal. He lunges for his phone, but she holds it on the other side of her body.
What is this, third grade?
You forgot what that was like, didn't you? How fun it was. That stops him for a moment. Until the phone RINGS again.
Oh my God! How do you stand it? She drops the phone into the coffee.
There. We're even. He stares at her. Incredulous. They lock eyes. God knows what would come next if they were in private. The fourth RING gurgles up through the coffee. A beat.
Sturdy little fucker, isn't it? She pulls the phone out of the cup and wipes it off with her scarf, pushing the button which sends the call to voice mail. Then she reaches out her hand, as if to shake.
By the way, I'm Elise.
The morning after .I lost I woke up thinking about you . That melts her. Instantly. All her bravado drops.
Harry sprints out onto lark Avenue now, right behind the bus HONK! Harry turns just in time to see a.taxi skid into him. TRUNK! He rolls up onto the hood
The woman from election night.
The woman from election night.
She kissed me. I just didn't fight it.
David looks at his phone. "Call Lost" on the screen. David hits redial. Gets a fast busy.
' . This is ridiculous. He pockets his phone.
Are you okay? Harry is sitting now, wincing, but still searching intently for something.
I'm fine Will you hand me that? feet away. We'll come to know it as a "PLANBOOK."
EXT. CITY STREET MORNING David's still grinning as he reaches his downtown office tower. He enters through the revolving door
Daviddecides he doesn't need to announce himself.
Doesn't anybody bother getting in before eight at this place? David passes a couple of empty offices on his way towards a large corner suite where a secretary sits outside an office marked "Charles Traynor, Chairman." She's smiling.
Call 911! Something's wrong with INT. CHARLIE'S OFFICE MORNING and rushes in to find that Charlie is frozen too with the phone up to his ear. Like he's in a wax museum. He is surrounded by four men in bulky, metallic silver protective suits .. One of the men adjusts three metal. probes which are attached to the left side.of Charlie's skull.
Three men in business suits talking by the window spin to see David. it's Mr. Richardson and-two aides we recognize as the "security guards" who chased Elise away on election night.
Grab him! David bolts out of the office as they lunge at him
You can't get away, David. David spins and rushes back into the main office, then down an internal staircase to the floor below. Jumps the last five steps and hits the floor hard. As he comes up he runs smack into another RSR employee who is frozen solid. David curses, then dives around the frozen employee to find Richardson, coming out of another office. down the hall. Again, physically impossible for him to get there that fast David spins and A DISTORTED WIDE ANGLE SHOT of a chloroform rag shoved right at us. FOCUS GOES IN AND OUT. FROM DAVID'S POV, BLURRY FOCUS as he's carried toward one of the large corner offices on the 40th floor. The nameplate reads "Steve Kincaid." Richardson opens the door and ushers his men, carrying David,
Except when they walk through the door they're not in an office 40 floors above lower Manhattan,Silence. Then voices come up slowlyRe-setting's off the table. This is our faultThe suits stare back in silence for a beat, then turn back to talking amongst themselves though at a lower volume.
What are my options?

Can somebody tell me what's going 2/12/09 29.  The questions will burn in him till the day he dies. You'll have to monitor him constantly.
The questions will burn in him till the day he dies. You'll have to monitor him constantly.
He can hear little snippets of what Burdensky's saying
If it were me, I'd level with him.
That's the only way to extinguish his curiosity. Richardson turns and studies David. Then walks over to him. An uncomfortable pause.
Who are you guys?
We're the people v ho make sure things happen according to Plan. David stares back at him for a moment. then leaps up. His rope comes off and the chair falls. He sprints toward an open door forty feet across the warehouse. Richardson makes a little gesture with his hand
David is dragged back to the center of the room and placed back in his chair in front of Richardson.
Did you really think I couldn't see that coming? David dabs blood from his lip, which split during the fall.
Now,. why are you still deciding whether or not to run? David's hands go to his head`, involuntarily, an atavistic response, as if;s.omehow that will keep his thoughts from spilling out into view.
You saw the futility of that back at the office. David's entire reality has finally been bent to the breaking point. He can't hang on any longer to an explanation for all this based in the world he's known to date.
What the hell is happening to me?
You just saw behind a curtain you weren't even supposed to know was there, Mr. Norris. Its jarring. I'm sure.
I just. came to work.
It wasn't your fault. Your Path through the world this morning was supposed to be adjusted.  Your coffee was supposed to.spill onto your shirt as you left Starbucks near your apartment. You would have gone up to change and arrived at work ten minutes later than you did. By then we would have left.
Whatever you were doing to Charlie back there. it wasn't misplacing his keys.
Sometimes. when nudging a person back on Plan isn't enough we intervene directly.
Why Charlie? What did you do to You need to worry about getting back on your Plan, David, not worry about us putting him back on his. David stares back, still trying to get his bearings.
You need to worry about getting back on your Plan, David, not worry about us putting him back on his. David stares back, still trying to get his bearings.
Do you understand what I just said?
Not a word. Not one word about us. ( long beat as he studies
Not a word. Not one word about us. ( long beat as he studies

He said I could go.
How is that possible? Why didn't we get an alert?
You said I could go. Richardson walks over to him.
You ran into a woman named Elise on the bus this morning?
(You weren't ever supposed to see her again.
Why do you care.?
Because, David, you can't be with her. And we didn't want to have to resort to this Four big guys grab David and pull his arms backwards like prison guards incapacitating a prisoner. Richardson reaches into David's pocket and pulls out his wallet
What the hell What are you Richardson removes the piece of paper that Elise wrote her number on from David's wallet
2/12/09 34. Richardson places the wallet back in David's pocket, then pulls out a lighter
You're David Norris, right?
Ice water.
That's it? David nods. Harry arrives.
We should talk. But not here. Go back to work and I'll contact you later today with a place to meet.
Harry can see that David is still very shaken.
The world's exactly the same as it's always been. You just understand it more completely now.
David walks away, still trying to get his bearings in the new reality he now knows. Charlie comes around a corner.
There you are. I called your cell ten times. You left me hanging.
2/12/09 36. ( seeing the look in
( seeing the look in
You sure you're okay.
Fine. How about you?
Great. Why?
No headaches or
I feel fantastic, -man. Is it just, me or is this an odd conversation?  What the hell happened with the After the meeting.
After the meeting.
INT. DAVID'S OFFICE DAY David hesitates. It's like his friend is an alien.. .but then again he's totally normal.
I lost her number.
You lost her number?
I was pickpocketed.
Come on. You can't be serious.  You're serious. Oh, man.dude. I'm sorry. I'm really sorry.
A lot of people just collapse when they see what you've s'een. Their personal choices suddenly seem meaningless to them. Life starts to feel pointless.
I was` raised to believe there's something behind the curtain. I just never pictured it quite like Most people don't. Harry looks over his shoulder, scans for any signs of his colleagues. He's far from relaxed.
Most people don't. Harry looks over his shoulder, scans for any signs of his colleagues. He's far from relaxed.
How are you feeling?
You should know. You can read my mind, right?
Richardson was just trying to scare He knew what color I was thinking.
He knew what color I was thinking.
Because he set it up as a choice. "Choose a color. Choose a number"
Harry looks away. He's crossing a line. He's really putting himself out thereWe can't read your mind or hear your thoughts. But before you make a choice your brain weighs options, and we percpite that. We know if you're going to go off Plan "or not because, as long as we're close enough, we cansense it when it's about to happen.
it-;' s like a sixth sense for you?
Seventh, actually.
What did they do too Charlie?
Made some small change in the way he assesses risk.
What type of risk?
I don't know. Something arcane. Something to do with mortgage- backed securities.
That's all?
What would your colleagues do to you if they knew what you were telling me? This is precisely what Harry has been worried about.
What would your colleagues do to you if they knew what you were telling me? This is precisely what Harry has been worried about.
That's why we're meeting out here.
They're not following me?
We don't have the manpower to follow everybody all the time. They're checking in on you. Just not here. Not right now. ON David's face considering this.
Why are you helping me?
I have my reasons. David studies him. Ha=rry's' clearly not ready to go into
Why do they care if I'm with Elise?
Your entire reality gets shattered this morning and you want to know about a woman?
Why do they care? Harry looks back at him. Taken aback a bit by how much David seems to care.
I don't know.
You have no idea?
All I know is, given the amount of resources they've used, keeping you from her is pretty important to  You're going to look for her aren't Again, David is silent.
They send you here to tell me that?
I'm ready. I changed a few things last night.
Stop the bus.
The next stop
EXT. EAST VILLAGE MORNING The bus stops. David jumps out on Broadway. FOLLOW him as he takes off across the street and runs down 12th. He catches up to her at University Place.
The woman turns around. And it's her.
Wow. How areyou. Reeling from the adrenaline; David takes a moment, thenWow. How areyou. Reeling from the adrenaline; David takes a moment, thenWow. How areyou. Reeling from the adrenaline; David takes a moment, thenI rode the Ml to work every day for the last three years hoping one day I'd run into you again. She's amused, rather than moved, because she doesn't buy it.
Calling would have been easier.
I couldn't.
Girlfriend wouldn't let you?
No girlfriend. She looks at him with continued skepticism. But his expression is dead serious.
( reI just got sick.
"I haven't seen you in three years - - You make me sick" is not an ideal come-on. For the record. David smiles. She's softening. A little. His phone vibrates. He pulls it out of his pocket.
One second.
And.I might have to push the CHARLIE  What? Are you crazy?!
I just ran into Elise. He hangs up.
You just hung up on your best We've known each other since we were kids. We have a shorthand.
We've known each other since we were kids. We have a shorthand.
What speech?
Doesn't matter. Let's take a walk. His focus on her is absolute. But she's wary of getting reeled in again.
Somewhere far. We have a lot to talk about.
Somewhere far. We have a lot to talk about.
I don't think you should cancel your speech. What if I don't like you at the end of our walk?
I'll take my chances.
Seri6us1y, my number hasn't changedMy-speech will always be there, you might not be.

Walk with me and I'll explain that. She's still dubious. His phone vibrates. This time he turns it off .
2/12/09 45. Can we walk? The moment she finally relents, CUT TOCan we walk? The moment she finally relents, CUT TOPolished black shoes running down a corridor on an impossibly shiny black floor with inlaid decorative silver borders.
We have a problem.
It's been years, David. How do you know I don't have a boyfriend? Oh, shit. He hasn't even had time to think about that.
you have a boyfriend?
Would it-Matter?

So all the stuff about me being in your mind constantly for the last three years was just talk. The truth is you don't have any real It wouldn't matter.
It wouldn't matter.
So you don't care about being a 2/12/09 46. Okay. if you were married it would Now you're just trying to say what you think I want to hear. A beat. She lets David twist in the wind.
Okay. if you were married it would Now you're just trying to say what you think I want to hear. A beat. She lets David twist in the wind.
Now you're just trying to say what you think I want to hear. A beat. She lets David twist in the wind.
I'm single. ON David's faceNow let's hear your bullshit excuse for never calling me.
I didn't have your number.
It was taken from me. I was Oh, come on.
It was taken from me. I was Oh, come on.
Oh, come on.
Your number was in my Wallet and they ,Come on..
I'm serious. What else could possibly-explain my fawning all over you on that bus three years ago.and again today and not calling you in between?

I swear to God I didn't have your number. I swear on my parents' I didn't even have a last name to try to track you down. Do you know how many pages come back when you type "Elise" into Google?
You really are smooth.
That's not fair.
It's okay. I like it. I probably shouldn't, but I do.
Tell me you're kidding. How could our Path-analysis miss this? McCrady just shakes his head, mystified. Richardson walks to the closet and pulls out his fedora'rlhek,e are they now?`
Central Park. Bethesda Fountain.
I read somewhere you're running I haven't announced yet but. soon.
I haven't announced yet but. soon.
I hope I had a little something to do with that.
That concession speech I gave sure did. You had everything to do with Elise smiles.
You know entirely too much about me given how little I know about you.
According to Cosmo I'm supposed to keep it that way.
According to Maxim, I'm supposed to "maintain eye contact and ask you what you do for a living." It's the first witty comment h6'
Not like that, you pervert. In a dance company. The. Manhattan Modern Ballet.
Not like that, you pervert. In a dance company. The. Manhattan Modern Ballet.
I think you have the wrong idea about me.
I think it was the first thing that crossed your mind.
Is there a performance of this company coming up that I could Actually, we have a show opening tomorrow night.
Actually, we have a show opening tomorrow night.
I'm there. You hungry yet?

We could wait an hour and call it I bet lines like that work wonders with the "dancers" you normally hang out with.
I bet lines like that work wonders with the "dancers" you normally hang out with.
So unfair.
Good morning. It's good to see you Thank you. You're.  Paul, right? De.Santo?
Thank you. You're.  Paul, right? De.Santo?
Wow, yeah. How did you remember that? It's been a year.
Morris is on the artistic director. Melton is on Charlie Traynor.
This whole thing will be over in an  We may not have that long.
We may not have that long.
INT. BOATHOUSE RESTAURANT DAY Thewaiter leaves David and Elise.
How do you do that? I can't remember the names of people I just  Right.. Thanks_.'
Right.. Thanks_.'
Right.. Thanks_.'
Her decision tree is diverging from our models.

No, something is wrong. I'm already seeing inflection points. Off Richardson's surprised look
Ballet is basically impossible to do correctly.
You just do absurd things. with your body. The movement is completely unnatural. It requires incredible strength in all sorts of random muscles. And you have to be born with ridiculous amounts of flexibility in your hip or you'll never be an y good.
You just do absurd things. with your body. The movement is completely unnatural. It requires incredible strength in all sorts of random muscles. And you have to be born with ridiculous amounts of flexibility in your hip or you'll never be an y good.
What's that?
If they kiss.

A real kiss. But once they do that every possible adjustment that's strong enough to break them up will cause ripples over your limit.
If Melton and Morris do their jobs right we'll be okay. But Richardson is clearly worried.
In the history of ballet there've only been a handful of people who actually did ballet the way it's supposed to be done. Forme that just made it completely addictive.
Do you ever get nervous when people watch you?
Not really. Do you get anxious when you make 'a speech?
I get more anxious alone in my apartment than in front of an auditorium full of people. Everything's backwards for me.
( reHow did you find me?
Does it matter?
Your speech?
He's announcing today.
At the speech?
It's okay.
What's okay? It's not okay. The one thing you can't be this. time around is impulsive. That's why we're announcing the way we are,
God, don't skip this for me.
God, don't skip this for me.
I told you I'm not letting you out of my sight.
David, what the hell?
Come with me. Come and watch.

Great. Perfect solution. Now, let's pay and get you over there. Charlie waves the waiter over to give them the check.
The speech is in 30 minutes.
The speech is in 30 minutes.
I can't then.  They just moved my dress rehearsal to noon. David's own sixth sense kicks in. Has he been discovered?
We can reschedule the speech.


I'll meet you right after the Where does your company perform?
Where does your company perform?
We're n in our space. There was a`;power ot outage or something. We're using a space" on Murray and West Broadway today.

You can literally walk there after the speech. David nods, his suspicions fading.

The "four blocks" thing was a brilliant move, boss.
We're not out of the woods yet. He looks down at the inflection points in McCrady's Planbook.
( POINTING WESTDavid and Elise stop to say goodbye to-each other.
You know, the speech on election night, you said I inspired you. I wish I could do that again now.

just want to
Thanks. Thanks a lot. David turns back to Elise.

I'm wrangling him right now
Whatever happens.I'm not going to let anything stand between us this It's such an odd thing to say, if you don't know what David has gone through. She gives him a quizzical look. But she's also moved by his,tone
Okay.Not this time. He leans in to kiss her
I'll see you in two hours.
We're okay.
That was way too close. What the hell is going on with this case?
I've just never seen you like that. David can't possibly explain.
I've just never seen you like that. David can't possibly explain.
"I'm going to-postpone my announcement to have brunch with a woman?" Postpone any speech. I know she made an impression on you but this is . Charlie just shakes his head, unable to comprehend. A beat.
"What is it about her?

Richardson. Yes, sir. Believe me, it was a surprise to me too. But I think we have it under control.
Oh, you're clone. You're gone.
.I'm here today to honor that, and to announce my intention to run for the United States Senate.
Just tell me if he disappears one more time you'll never take his call again.
Don't worry. That's definite.
Good Morning America at 7am tomorrow, then you have the bankers group. David, are you listening? David's staring out the window. The sunlight has caught the building across the street just right to illuminate Richardson and McCrady on the second floor.
D` emit ! Richardson-steps back out of the sunlight.
Get out of the sunlight. McCrady, notices David looking, jumps back out of the light.

I have to see Elise now.
After you go back out there and talk to the New York channels
Tomorrow. After GMA. He heads for the door. Charlie follows.
No, we need this on the nightly ( catching up to David and
Every time we get close.. .you do something to derail it. A beat. There's a truth to that. David knows it. But
This is different. Trust me, it's David leaves.
Elise .I doubt you'll ever get this message but
David dials 411.
Can I have the number for the Manhattan Modern Ballet.
He's going to go next doorYou can't keep.-thephones and internet down on the whole block, for too much. longer without running into ripple problems.
Do you have a phone book?
David gets to the phone book page that ends with "Manhattan Mobile Phone Company." The next page is torn out. David slams his fist down.
There is an entire world of women out there. I thought I made it clear this one was off limits. David takes off walking.
I must have forgotten. It's been a Doesn't change the fact. David looks around, trying to figure out his next move.
Doesn't change the fact. David looks around, trying to figure out his next move.
Why are you so.determined to keep us apart?
You knowThe Plan? If there is a Pi ri you misread it.
There's no misreading what the Plan says about you and Elise. It's Then your Plan's wrong.
Then your Plan's wrong.
Do you realize who wrote this Plan?
I don't care. Richardson grabs him and pushes him against a brick wall.
Well you should. You need to learn a little more respect. David shoves him off. Looks like he might take a swing at Richardson. Then his eye catches the complex diagram that McCrady is looking at in his Planbook.
Why are you keeping us apart?
Because the Plan calls for it.


That was chance. That wasn't us.
Three times? Bullshit! If I'm not supposed to be with her then why do I feel like this?
It doesn't matter what you feel. It matters what's in black and David's ready to explodeYou don't know, do you? You don't know why they're keeping us 'It's not something your mind could You're in a nice suit but the reality is you're just a minion aren't you? David pushes past Richardson and walks into a busy restaurant. McCrady quickly consults his Planbook.

You're in a nice suit but the reality is you're just a minion aren't you? David pushes past Richardson and walks into a busy restaurant. McCrady quickly consults his Planbook.
He's deciding how to

Son of a bitch.
He's smart. He's very smart. David exits the restaurant from another door. He hurries toward West Broadway.
Maybe you should try the subway. David holds him in a steely gaze.
Don't all those cab drivers you're diverting have Plans too? What about all the other people looking for cabs in this part of the city right n6t? What about their Plans? The ripples must be endless. Richardson is taken aback that David has figuredthis out.
I don't care what you put in my way, I'm not going to give up. David walks off, leaving Richardson standing there.
You've got two more minutes keeping taxis off West Broadway before

Is this how far you people will He rushes toward the accident
An hour later. Four police cars and an ambulance. They treating one of the accident"s victims for minor scrapes ]avid is getting intervie,ved by a police officer.
Unfortunately you're the only witness, Congressman.
How much longer?
A few more minutes. I'm sorry. I know you have to meet somebody.
I didn't say I had to meet anyone.
Well .I just assumed
Amateur! That's an amateur's BACK TO SCENE EXT. SITE OF ACCIDENT DAY You're not a real cop, are you? You're one of them. Somebody could have been killed in that crash! Doesn't that make you
You're not a real cop, are you? You're one of them. Somebody could have been killed in that crash! Doesn't that make you
Sir, calm down. But David's already walking away.
He goes to the highest ranking guy on the. scene.
I know you heed a statement from me, but do I have to stay here to give it to you or
No, sir, we know ow to get in touch with you.
Thank you. '.Is this man under your David turns to see that the "Police Officer" who was interviewing him is gone.
17th Street between 10th and 11th. And sir, you might have to break some traffic laws getting there. So take this. He hands him a $100 bill. A light that just turned green
Go through that The driver blows through it as it turns re
Go through that The driver blows through it as it turns re
I want more red liUhtss
There are too many, ripples in the system.. Cumm.lative effects are. coming into play.
A traffic jam.
That's even w r. We have to get more localize. Richardson looks at the taxi disappearing up Hudson.
He's getting out of range!
2/12/09 69. The chef charges over and pulls open the door to find refrigerated food. And nothing else. Richardson and McCrady have disappeared. The chef blinks.
Wrong one. .. Two doors down. God, I hate EXT. 17TH ST DAY David's taxi heads down 17th from 8th Avenue.
( RE2/12/09 70. EXT. / INT. DANCE STUDIO DAY David opens the door to Elise's dance company, oblivious to Richardson's pursuit.
Is she expecting you? He nods.
I hope you realize how lucky you are. I'm the friend. Lauren.
Can 'I block the front door?
He's already through Pit.
The next one!
It goes without saying that I'll kill you if you hurt her.
( re
Wait, he's
Hat! Hat! McCrady is behind him He points. at Richardson's fedora, which is on the sidewalk. Fell off when he ran. Richardson sprints to grab it
I'm in serious trouble here.

Dammit ! McCrady's phone buzzes. He pulls it out and looks at the caller ID.

Celebrate while you can. They'll just kick it upstairs now You have no idea what you're up David just looks at him. He'll deal with that when it Richardson grabs the phone and answers .going outside to David turns back to the dance studio. He opens the door to get an unobstructed view of Elisee,. She spins, arches, dips. David can't take his eyes off hey` When the artistic director pauses the routine to give notes, Elise gives David a. little wave. Then they start again. David looks back out at Richardson on the street, but he's TNT. ADJUSTMENT BUREAU HEADQUARTERS DUSK A defeated Richardson trudges up a long flight of stairs.
Richardson grabs the phone and answers .going outside to David turns back to the dance studio. He opens the door to get an unobstructed view of Elisee,. She spins, arches, dips. David can't take his eyes off hey` When the artistic director pauses the routine to give notes, Elise gives David a. little wave. Then they start again. David looks back out at Richardson on the street, but he's TNT. ADJUSTMENT BUREAU HEADQUARTERS DUSK A defeated Richardson trudges up a long flight of stairs.
He's waiting for you.
You're incredible. How did you get that good?
It's all I do. It's the only thing I ever wante& to be. And I started How young?
How young?
By third grade I was going every day after school.
That's a lot of motivation for an eight year-old. She waves to the other dancers and receptionist in the lobby and they exit on to
We moved around a lot then. Dance was kind of my stability.
Sure. it was the only constant in your life, aside from your 2/12/09 74. Really more the dance. She doesn't make a big deal of it but we get it.
Really more the dance. She doesn't make a big deal of it but we get it.
David's phone buzzes. Caller ID shows it's Charlie.
I take it this is an unauthorized social break.
I'm a candidate for the US-Couple houtrs while I'm out of touch won'tCouple houtrs while I'm out of touch won'tCouple hour, huh? Well, we better make them,,-,'count.
What's it look like? We see the reflection of a dance club in the window.
I'm a terrible dancer. I don't Elise climbs out. David follows.
You don't now. By the end of the night, you will.
You're going to teach me to dance in one night? Not happening.
Are you doubting me?
She spins and shoves him against the wall. Forcefully kisses him. Then pulls free.
She turns and walks into the club. David stands there.
Holy shit.
The disciplinary rules requ-te me to. demote you in rank and re-assign yot to a less desirable post. Donaldson ingers the document he just signed.
I'm going-'to interpret those rules loosely. I'm going to go easy on you because,I feel the deck was stacked ,against you. In a WIDER shot we see that both Burdensky and Donaldson's AIDE sit nearby.
I'm talking about the intense chemistry between them, the constant inflection points, and the kicker of courseIt seems like these two were meant to be together because they were meant to be together.
Were, in the past, in an earlier version of the plan. Actually a dozen earlier versions.
Were, in the past, in an earlier version of the plan. Actually a dozen earlier versions.
Serious, serious.trouble.
Salt, Patron, lime .'-.and two glasses dotin on the bar.
She yanks him onto the dance floor.
She yanks him onto the dance floor.
Why was it changed?
Something important. They went from "meant to be together" to "red- letter denied relationship" in a single Plan revision a few years back. As for why, specifically, that's apparently above even my pay INT. PLAN B NIGHT David and Elise dance. He sucks, but doesn't care. A couple of people in the club recognize him and give him thumbs up.
You spend your whole career hoping that one day you'll get a "red- letter" case. Something you can really make a name for yourself with. Finally I get one. and it's. .booby-trapped.
Okay, we've al-ready used up an hour, we >etter hurry. She pills him toward the exit.
Hurry where?
You've got to let yourself feel the 2/12/09 78. I've been told I have trouble Whoever said that hasn't seen you That's different. I mean
I've been told I have trouble Whoever said that hasn't seen you That's different. I mean
Whoever said that hasn't seen you That's different. I mean
That's different. I mean
In private. With women AlthOugh that might be changing. Is there any style of dance you canIn private. With women AlthOugh that might be changing. Is there any style of dance you canNext stop, the best 80s club in the city. You ready?
To make an ass of myself for the third time in one night? 4`r, 6'.

What are'the rules of the race-
No rules.
Hmmm, could get ugly. He looks down an alley as if he's noticed something. When she looks, he takes off like a bat out of hell
You bastard! He's got a good lead, so he flips around and runs backwards.
Quit complaining and run. She catches up. He spins and digs it out. He can't dance, but he sure can run. He pulls away and wins.
He pumps his arms in a victory dance.

You said "no rules". She punches him in the stomach. Hard. He crumples, completely unprepared for it.


You're insane.
We. need a cab. He'laughing through the'pain.
I'm serious. You're a maniac. You should come with a warning label.
I do. You just can't see it with my clothes on. OFF David biting his lip. and PRE-LAPPING the music
Doesn't this song make you feel like you're at your high school I was six when it came out. So, not really. Brutal. David just shakes his head and smiles as, she pulls him to the dance floor.
I was six when it came out. So, not really. Brutal. David just shakes his head and smiles as, she pulls him to the dance floor.
Baby.1-I-I can't wait
As the song kicks in and David and Elise start dancing. A couple of kids next to them notice David and start pointing and signaling their approval- The kids who first spotted David have alerted a few others. More people in the crowd cheer him on.
So we're going operational? This is exciting. It's been a while.
We r t no ti go p etational No taking stupit ris,s .
SO WHAT-ARE-=
We're going to kick this case upstairs.. .to someone with the latitude to clean up this mess without breaking into a sweat. We're going to walk this upstairs to Thompson.
Thompson? Are we even allowed to go to him directly? He's a Senior
Exec VP.
Isn't he the one.. .when he was in the field his nickname was
"The Hammer?" Yes. He'll crush this romance with the flick of his hand. And he'll thank me for giving him the opportunity.
David and Elise dancing.
Cause I can't wait,. this .is what I've been waiting for People on the dance floor are literally screaming in support.
You grew up over there? She indicatesa residential area just behind the docks.

What were you like as a. kid?
Before sixth grade I spent about half my time in the principal's You? Really?
You? Really?
The only person who spent as much time down there as me was a girl I had a huge crush on so I didn't mind too much.
( reNo. My dad filled vending And you're going to be a After my brother died my Dad wanted to get me out of town for a while. We went to Washington and the day we arrived he took meto the. Capitol. We ended up sitting in the Senate gallery;,all day. ( reAnd you're going to be a After my brother died my Dad wanted to get me out of town for a while. We went to Washington and the day we arrived he took meto the. Capitol. We ended up sitting in the Senate gallery;,all day. ( reAfter my brother died my Dad wanted to get me out of town for a while. We went to Washington and the day we arrived he took meto the. Capitol. We ended up sitting in the Senate gallery;,all day. ( reSo.areyou doing all this-I want to matter. I don't think that's just forrhim. Elise,. tucks her head into his shoulder.
I don't want tonight to mess anything..up for you, for the Just make sure I make it to Diane Sawyer on time and I'll be fine. Elise looks at him for a long beat.
Just make sure I make it to Diane Sawyer on time and I'll be fine. Elise looks at him for a long beat.
You're different. somehow you make me believe.
Believe what?
Just. believe, period.
I don't let people in, David. And I never let them in this quickly. David pulls her close., He-,can't see her eyes. But we can. She's struggling with something more.
I haven'I. don't want perfect.,.
I haven't stopped thinking about you since the moment I met you. I want you in my life
There are skeletons in my closet, David. The kind that
Listen to me
The kind that people use against
Elise, listen! I don't care. We'll work it out. I've spent my whole life wondering why it takes auditoriums of people to fill the empty space inside me. Then I met you.and realized it doesn't. She looks at him. He means it.
You scare me.
That wasn't the effect I was going She smiles.then laughs out-loud
Let it happen again. 7 Thompson's aides seem surprised by the answer.
You been up long?
2/12/09 85. Did you wake up in. the middle of the night?
Did you wake up in. the middle of the night?
Slept straight through.
I thought you never sleep through.
I don't.
I won't hurt you. They kiss more. and then get swept up by it.
They lie in bed, post-coital, drained. Blissful. Until the phone rings. It's 6Hello?What's wrong..
That was my , ex. Adrian.
Oh. I didn't I guess we hadn't gotten to that stuff yet.
He hasn't called since we broke up.
How long?
Three months.
Was it serious?
We were engaged.
What happened? Complete honesty.
He left. David can feel this in the pit of his stomach now.
What an idiot.
You don't know me that well yet. You're still in the wishful thinking phase.
But it wasDAVID `'
that him? DtTid paints at pica re of Elise with an attractive man, arms wound each other. lis'e looks surprised, shocked even, to tY%'e photo on her b okcase. She nods.
David. . It's not. It's over between us. Completely over.I want to be clear about that. I'm pretty sure yesterday was the most perfect day I've ever had.
Me too. David looks at the clock.
I have this Diane Sawyer interview.
I know. So did that. They look at each other. Then David reaches for his clothes
Can I come? My dress rehearsal's not until nine. David's face lights up.
I'm afraid if I let you out of my sight. . .you know.I might never see you again. A smile creeps across his face.
You've overcome enormous obstacles in your life and risen to-such heights so quickly. People are fascinated by you.
Only people who haven't spent enough time with ' me to know the INT. GREEN ROOM . DAY- Elise watches theAs a speaker and politician you've been repeatedly compared to JFK.
By my campaign manager mostly.
With a childhood friend. So I don't think that counts. And, truthfully, that's how we celebrate things we're I'm from.
Let's just say you have a habit of getting into the press for.other uniquely human things as well
that a euphemism, Diane? She laughs.
Most politicians.
I think Americans are tired of electing automatons whose every word and move is stage-managed so as not to offend anyone. I think they want somebody who doesn't hide who he is or what he really believes. I guess I'm hoping they want to elect someone who's actually like them.
And if you are?
You'd be surprised at the number of underwear companies that have approached me to be their Diane bursts out laughing. The floor techs are laughing too.
( to David, reYou can call her that. And yes. David is looking at a text from Elise as he speaks. It saysThey're saying she's getting a tour of the control room in studio C. Can somebody take Congressman Norris to studio C? Thompson's aide signals David to follow him. David does. They walk through a couple thick doors into the corridor.
God dammit!
If people could hear you out there it wouldn't be a very good soundstage, would it? David turns to see Thompson, in the now familiar dark suit and fedora.
My name's Thompson.
What happened to Free Will?
Who said anything about Free Will? David stares back at him.
You know, we actually tried Free Will before. After taking you from hunting and gathering to the height of the Roman Empire we stepped back to see how you'd do on your own. You gave us the Dark Ages for five centuries until finally weYou expect me.'to believe that?

If you're in control of the important things then you're incompetent cause when I look around at the world these days it seems pretty fucked.
It's still here. If we'd left things in your hands, it wouldn't Why are you trying to keep me from Elise? Or are you just another lackey who doesn't really know? Thompson studies David for a long beat. Then decides it's time to level with him.
Why are you trying to keep me from Elise? Or are you just another lackey who doesn't really know? Thompson studies David for a long beat. Then decides it's time to level with him.
We put Elise in front of you three years ago to inspire you to, .g `ve that speech the speech that pulled you back from the brink of oblivion and, overnight, itiade.you the front runner for this coming election. The intervention on Charlie was to prevent the hedge fund you had just become vice chairman of from going belly up in the sub-prime=crisis, bringing two major banks down. with it, arid in , the process making you unelectable. David blinks. Tries to, process this. Are you s aying you warit me to win
This 'one and six mom, after it. And t'm not just talking about `elections ' for Senate. lowly dawns on David what Thompson is saying.
You can matter, David. Really matter. What you wanted your whole life. What your father wanted when he took you to the Senate gallery when you were ten. What your brother wanted when he made you promise, the day before he overdosed, that you wouldn't be like him.
Stop. Don't tell me this.
Why do you think you have that yearning to be in front of people. . .and that terrible emptiness when you're not?
David you are meant to change the world. But that doesn't happen if you stay with her.
David you are meant to change the world. But that doesn't happen if you stay with her.
Why does it matter to you who I love? Some skeleton of hers `is so bad I won't get elected? I don't believe that!
It's not about her-Yes. The speech. Put it this wadStop. JustDavid, the president can't be a
Stop talking. It's not working.
Stop talking. It's not working.
Why do you refuse to accept what should be completely obvious by now? You've seen what we can do. You can't doubt we are who we say we are.
I don't care who you are. I don't care who's orders you're following.
You can't outrun your fate, David.
Who said anything about running.
Maybe we should just reset you.
We both know if you could have we wouldn't be standing here having this conversation. Thompson stares back. He's never dealt with such You fight us, we will take everything from you.
You fight us, we will take everything from you.
You already did once.' And I'm still standing.
You'd still be living in caves if it weren't for us.

It's 6What do you want?
There's one more piece to all this I haven't told you. I guess I didn't have the heart. If you stay with her, it doesn't just kill your dreams, it kills hers.
2/12/09 97. Elise is about to become one of the most famous dancers in the country. and eventually one of the greatest choreographers in the If she stays with you. she ends up teaching dance to eight year-olds.
Elise is about to become one of the most famous dancers in the country. and eventually one of the greatest choreographers in the If she stays with you. she ends up teaching dance to eight year-olds.
I don't believe you. I thought we already established that. A beat.
When you look back at all this, David, just remember, we tried to reason with you. Thompson gets up and leaves.just as the lights go down for the next dance. David watches him go.then turns around just in time to catch Elise's entrance into the dance a graceful jump. When she lands, her ankle cracks, and she falls. The audience gasps. INSERTIf it's broken.my career's over.
Don't say that. Don't.
I always hear people saying "you yourself for what can't bla M4' hpens fih other people," but in this case, really, you can. David stands up. h T ompson is knocked onto his ass. People in the waiting room stare at David. Almost everyone here knows his fade. He looks at them, unable to summon his usual wit.
This is what you do, David.
How bad is it? The surgeon turns to her with a classic doctor's detachmentHow bad is it? The surgeon turns to her with a classic doctor's detachmentEXT. HOSPITAL COURTYARD NIGHT David sits alone on a bench. Thompson arrives.
EXT. HOSPITAL COURTYARD NIGHT David sits alone on a bench. Thompson arrives.
You're an educated man. You've read the Greek tragedies`. In the end Fate always wins. David looks back at him in steely silence.
It a sprain.
This time.
This time.
Walk away. If you truly love her, walk away. She'll hate you for it.but that way she'll be able to let you go quickly. You can give her that at least.
It's a sprain! It's just a sprain! David gives her a tight hug.
It's going to be okay. The doctor said it would heal in' a month. . .maybe even less.
You're going toThey want to do an MRI.to assess the ligament. damage but.It's; going to be fine. And as incredible of a dancer as you already are, yot're just going to get better and better. DavidV;embraces her again, so she won't see the tears welling in his eyes.
I.I have to go make a few calls. His voice cracks. Elise notices.
You okay?
I'm just.happy for you.
You're doing the right thing, David. Not just for her, and the world. . .but for yourself. David looks at him for a beat, then turns and walks away into the night.
How's he doing?
They still love him. Papers? The aide hands Charlie a stack of papers2/12/09 102. The aide leaves. Charlie glances at the front page of the Times, then reaches for the New York / Region section. As he does the front page of the Arts section catches his eye. There is a big photo of Elise, doing an "airborne split," accompanying an article titled "Dance Takes a Quantum Leap." Charlie glances through the window at David who is climbing down from the pickup truck to applause from his parking lot EXT. PARKING LOT MORNING David shakes hands with people in the aftermath of his speech. They really do love him.
As he makes his way, towards the diner'f-tom the parking lot, shaking handb and allowing his picture to be taken.
I'm started.
I'm going to show you this because you'd find out eventually and because I want to be here when you Charlie turns the Arts section around for David to see it. Elise's photo has a noticeable impact on David. He glances at the article for a moment. Then Charlie points down near the bottom, at a particular
I think I need. I.
I think I need. I.
Take a day off. Take a couple. We're sixteen points up.

Do you still serve neighborhood guys here or just the tourists? The bartender smiles big. A couple people at the bar notice him. Then others notice and they start whooping it up for him. He doesn't know any of them-but they sure know him.
Why are you here? REVERSE to REVEAL Harry, in a suit and raincoat.
I would have come earlier but I had to wait for the rain.  Water interferes with their ability to sense your decision tree. That's why we met on a boat last I guess I'm here to set the record About what?
About what?
Why, then? Why do they care so 8ecause.,..she's enough, David. If you have =her r tau rtt .ght not need to fill the d side you with votes and ataplause'and dreams of one day becoming p sident. if Harry has8ecause.,..she's enough, David. If you have =her r tau rtt .ght not need to fill the d side you with votes and ataplause'and dreams of one day becoming p sident. if Harry hasI've watched you a long time. They're right to want you in the White House. It would be good for the world. That's important but it can't be the only thing that Why are you so different than they 2/12/09 105. A long beat, thenWhy are you so different than they 2/12/09 105. A long beat, thenYou know, your Dad was a smart man. He could have been a lot more and he wanted to be. So did your brother. But the Plan didn't call for that. This hits David hard.
In my job, you implement the And most of the time.. .you don't even know why.
My mom?
That wasn't me. that wasn't us at a drink as well.
When Thompson told methe choice as Elise or the White House I barely hesitated.
But the trt t i `is after making that choice I went into a free-fall. Don't get=me wrong, it killed me to see Thompson hurt her.but I used it as an excuse. I think I left her more to save my career than Thompson wasn't lying. The press is already talking about me as a future president. I'm phoning in my speeches and I'm still sixteen points up in the polls.
The public loves you.
Before I met Elise that was all that mattered. Now I hardly notice. She's all I think about.
Front of a judge. Tomorrow Is she happy with him? Tell me she is and I'll walk away.
Is she happy with him? Tell me she is and I'll walk away.
Thompson won't let you get near that courthouse.
Harry. is she happy?
A beat.
Will you help meThey'll sense )tOu coming a mile What if Icould move as fast as you What do you mean?
What if Icould move as fast as you What do you mean?
What do you mean?
Teach me about the doors.
How do you know about that?
The first day, after they caught me, they carried me through one.I thought it was a hallucination at first. Eventually I realized it's how you move around so fast.  If you don't want to help me because of what they'll do to you.okay, that's your choice. But if this is about protecting me then shouldn't the choice be mine?
Do you have any idea how complicated it is to navigate through those doors. how many thousands of permutations there are in even a simple several block You know, when I do town hall meetings I usually get introduced to forty or fifty people between when I walk, through' the door and when I start speaking. But when I'm done with the speech I can call on each one of them by `game. A beat.
You know, when I do town hall meetings I usually get introduced to forty or fifty people between when I walk, through' the door and when I start speaking. But when I'm done with the speech I can call on each one of them by `game. A beat.
I've seen you do that  The rain is supposed to stop in the nexthou'r. We're going to need all night to do this. And we're going to need aplace surrounded by water to do it.
Harry and David stand outside a door to a dock office at the end of the pier. Harry dons his hat.
Put your hand on my shoulder. And don't let go until we've crossed the threshold.
Are they ever locked?
Maybe if you have a defective hat. They step through the door and onto
Harry runs David to the front dooraf a brownstone. Opens the door. They move through i into
We're underneath Canal Street, which c as ,,A canal before rt, was a street. This is the jcity's'Floor open?
You okay, sweetie?
I just feel like being on the Everything still on for tomorrow? Elise nods, trying to cover her ambivalence.
Everything still on for tomorrow? Elise nods, trying to cover her ambivalence.
Lower Manhattan is a nightmare. Layer upon layer of substrate that's what we call the system of doors has been added over time. That makes it a lot more complex to navigate down here than it is uptown. And a lot slower. Harry dumps out several hundred photos of doors, interior and exterior, all below Canal Street.
You ready?
Let's go. Harry smiles and hblds,.up a photograph of.the Manhattan County Court Building in Foley SquaYour destination. Courtroom Six.
North Moore St. Just south of the coffee shop. Red door. I come out on Broadway, near Leonard St. Harry looks at a photo of what David just described.
Good. Keep going.
( eyes closed, trying to
Thompson's there.
Okay .so.  I hightail it East-to Lafayette no, it's Crosby Street there. INT. DANCE COMPANY Nit;HT Elise dances.
one wearing a hat Is. a threat. vv1Le. h e rea lizes w hat' = g oin g on , Okay, you said he's right in front of me, right? Harry nods.
Okay, you said he's right in front of me, right? Harry nods.
I'd knock the Yankees cap off his head and go through the door before he has a chance to pick it up. A thinsmile forms on Harry's face and grows.
Good. good. improvisation. We have trouble with that.
How am I doing?
Don't get cocky. You know ten permutations out of ten thousand. Get back to work.
Harry drilling David with photd'after photo of Manhattan doors INTERCUT with Elise dancing .until she finally quits from physical and emotional exhaustion.
Yourbrain can only put so much in at once. Take- a brreak. DaCould I ever learn to read that? Harry shakes his head. Impossible.
No matter how hard I tried?
For the same reason you can't breathe underwater or flap your arms and fly. You're not built to do it.
( reElise. Her decision tree. What it was a few hours ago, before the rain, before we were down here. David looks at it, then looks away.
I want to ask you what it says.. .what she's thinking.. .bit somehow that feels .wrong.
You know what she's thinkin-g,'David as much as you need to know. The rest .well.you're`built to feel that.
ready to get back to work? Sometl`ing about that strikes Harry.
Your father used to say that. Off David's reaction
The fastest path is getting to the blue door right off the bat.
But you're exposed the whole way there. It's a lot riskier than leapfrogging through doors
But if I can make it.I'.Il have caught them completely bysurprise.
Assuming you make it.
Do you have your license? Adrian hands her his marriage license.
Is your fiancee here?
Getting out of a cab downstairs. The registrar glances at the license to make sure it's in order. Then stamps itCourtroom Six.
You got lucky. It's raining again.
The marriage is scheduled for ten minutes from now.
You can't jump the gun on this,,.. Getting there too early is almost as bad as getting there too late. Harry looks at his updated Planbook and consults his watch.
It ',.t time. David breathes a sigh of relief. Harry takes the hat off h1znrhead wand hands it to -David.
I'm going for the blue door.
Of course. MUSIC CUE .
Run fast.
It was a momentary flash, and given the weather we can't be sure, but it looks like Mr. Norris may be
Hi, honey.  You okay?
Just a little queasy.
I'm not sure. Nervous. I just need a minute in the bathroom.
I'm not sure. Nervous. I just need a minute in the bathroom.
Cars! Cars! From here it's faster in the cars!
Where is heribw?!
GREENWICH STREET-
2/12/09 117. Thompson's Aide is speechless as he stares at his Planbook.
Thompson's Aide is speechless as he stares at his Planbook.
THOMPSON'S AIDE
He just went into the substrate. Off Thompson's reactionDocket #22 please come forward The guy next to Adrian stands up. AdrianWe're next. Will you check on her?
It's an emergency.
We all have emergencies, pal.
Am I making the biggest mistake of my life?

If you have doubts I'm okay.
I'm just nervous. You haven't done this yet. It's overwhelming.
I'm okay. I'm going to clean up. Tell Adrian I'll be right there.
I'm okay. I'm going to clean up. Tell Adrian I'll be right there.
I'm okay. I'm going to clean up. Tell Adrian I'll be right there.
Congressman! You left. your
Docket #23 please come forward. Adrian looks at Lauren. Stands. Motions urgently for Lauren to get Elise from the bathroom
Where is she? Water drips from his clothes onto the marble floor.
Where is she? Water drips from his clothes onto the marble floor.
You want to explain to me

INT. LADIES ROOM DAY Elise turns to see him and stops cold.
Why are you doing this to me? Just then the door bursts open. The suspicious man from the
Why are you doing this to me? Just then the door bursts open. The suspicious man from the
Why are you doing this to me? Just then the door bursts open. The suspicious man from the
David elbows him in the face. The man drops.
2/12/09 120. David calmly turns back to her.
You're not supposed to be weeping on your wedding day, Elise. Elise fights the emotion again welling inside.
You were never happy with Adrian. You told me that. Elise puts her head in her hands.
This is so screwed up. Oh,-God..
I love you. I know I've acted strangely. But, I love you.
Don't do this to me.
I've never felt anything like. this in my life.
If you care 'so much, why the hell did you disappear on me in that What are you ha.d1 g from me? Why did you diS pp`ear " Again! You fucking bastard! Why? Tears are streaming down her face.
What are you ha.d1 g from me? Why did you diS pp`ear " Again! You fucking bastard! Why? Tears are streaming down her face.
They'll reset me.
They'll scramble my brain
They'll scramble my brain
They'll scramble my brain
David, stop talking like this! 2/12/09 121. David looks back at her. Just looks at her. Then he leans over and wipes a tear from her face. And he decides. He just decides.
But at least you'll know the truth.
It's not in their "Plan" for us to be together. So they're trying to stop us.
Oh myGod. He just revealed us.
Stop talking like a crazy person. Stop making things up
They said if we were together they'`d take dance from you and politic,s,from me. They hurt your ankle that night. They The door flies open again. David picks up a trash can and clobbers the fedora-wearing man who enters. He drops.
Call the Intervention Team! Tell them it's a square-one reset!
Jesus.. .the cops are after you?! David grabs the shield and uses it to wedge the door closed. Kicks it in so it's jammed tight.
He's not a cop. He's one of them. Another body slams into the door now. But the shield holds it shut.
Who's "them?" SLAM! SLAM! The door cracks
Jesus, David!. What's going on?! David is impossibly calm. He puts his hat back on.
I'm going toCome on. We need to lose them. David walks her across the street and picks a door at random,
EXT. DOOR DAY David and Elise exit through a door. Her jaw drops. REVERSE TO REVEAL Central Park's Sheep Meadow spread before them. . Elise steps out onto the grass, touches it, falls to her knees in the rain, completely overwhelmed.
The rain slows them down but they can track us. We have two orthree minutes. Maybe less. Elise is still speechless. He takes her hand.
The ten year-old in me always mixed up winning elections with being loved. Then I met` you;,..
Now you know. Youknota everything. And you have to leave mitie.
BAVA )
They'll take` dance from you. You saw what they-'did before. 'fihe foundations of her world have just collapsed. but somehow she pulls herself together to say thisYou're not safe with me. If you
You're not safe with me. If you
She puts her finger to his lip. Shhhh.
It doesn't make any sense but, right now I feel safer than I've ever felt before.
Every door? tavid nods.as they walk into another.
Let's go.
We can't keep running forever,. If they find us .they'll take you from me.
If they find us .they'll take you from me.
I won't let..them.
They'll take you from here. David touches his head'.
No, I won't let them. She leans,-.over and kisses hi's forehead.
David picks a door. It's locked. He tries another. It's
locked too. He tries a third. Locked. Elise tries shakes her head.
They're not supposed to be locked! David hears sounds coming from the building's central staircase. He looks down it to see four men in silver suits climbing up the stairs.
This one's open! Elise is standing at the door to the roof. David runs to her and they go up the stairs together to
Kiss me. Tears well in her eyes. And his.
Close your eyes and kiss me. He does. And they kiss in the rain.
I love you, David Norris.
Hello, David. Good morning, His voice is gentle, paternal.
Who are you?
I think you know. David and Elise stand in awe'-'as they realize.
You can't oti{rn Fate. Tft , CHAIRMAN It's .more- complicated t,}an that, Fate am Free Will coexist They're;in tension with each other. And pure chance. A beat. David looks back at him.
TH2;.>HAT, RMAN I could control 'everything. You'd be ha` 3 ou' d be puppets. I try to .keep things from getting too out of control. But that has a cost. Most people go through life like pinballs, reacting predictably to the stimuli I apply. They accept the path they find themselves on. And perform accordingly. But every once in a while someone comes along who refuses to be bound by his fate, someone who understands that Free Will is a gift most people are too afraid to use.
And all the misery, all the pain.
I sit up there and I watch it and it hurts me. . but if you could see the incredible courage people show, the random acts of kindness, the love. If you could see huitan beings choosing every moment every day to be better thAn'' I made them, you would know it's all Good luck, David. And good luck to you, Elise. You're a-beautiful dancer. And so much more. The Chairman turns to his aide, who we didn't know was there.
Their case isclosed.
Not anymc3e . David and Elise watc]i The Chairman walk away, still awed by what=they've just experienced. As He disappears around a corner, the sun comes out from behind the clouds . After a long beat, Elise turns back to David, as if to say "what do we do now?"
Maybe we should go dancing. A smile slowly spreads across her face .
WritersMarch 30, 1983 BUCKAROO BANZAI CARD OVER.WHITE LETTERS ON A DARK BACKGROUNDCARD OVER.WHITE LETTERS ON A DARK BACKGROUNDof the Cold War as the decade of the 1950s looms. Stung by this Soviet challenge and the rapid race to develop ever more sophisticated weapons, the United States resurrects maverick Professor Toichi Hikita's work in electromagnetic particle acceleration.despite the dismal record of failure that has dogged the project. TOICHI HIKITA, one of the group, walks forward, taking the CAMERA from its present operator, a four-year-old child.A LITTLE BOY IN CHAPS AND COWBOY HAT who now joins the other adults, in particular Caucasian woman and the elder Oriental man who pick him up and hug him.
himself anxious to work for the Allies. Enamored of the great American West, Banzai sires a precocious son and tags the tiny child "Buckaroo." A tribute to his adopted homeland.
disaster at Princeton, Doctor Hikita finds new life at the Texas School of Mines, where he assembles a team of crack scientists willing to gamble he's right in his bold assertion that man can indeed pass unharmed through solid matter. The SECOND "PILOT," a fair-haired Caucasianwith Whitehead and Lord Russell of the world's most advanced theoretical gravity catapult.
.wife of Dr. Masado Banzai. .as the four-year-old BUCKAROO BANZAI now approaches the speed machine and gives his father a good-bye kiss.Dr. Banzai saying something to the boy, Buckaroo bowing respectfully, as his father and mother exchange last-minute assurances. The cockpit canopy comes down, and Sandra Banzai tugs a reluctant little Buckaroo toward a sandbagged shelter.
THIRTY YEARS LATER VOICE OF MISSION CONTROL INT. BLOCKHOUSE - DAY 8 CLOSE ON AN OLDER, WISER PROFESSOR HIKITAEXT. JET CAR - PROVING GROUNDS - DAY 9 One hundred yards from a concrete blockhouse, a SERIES OF MYSTERIOUS CLOSEUPS of an UNUSUAL STRATEGIC AUTOMOBILE sitting ready to roll, as TECHNICIANS in asbestos suites fill its tanks with HIGHLY FLAMMABLE
.amid television screens, monitoring devices.an elite assortment of GOVERNMENT VIPS, MILITARY MEN, AND NEWS MEDIA REPRESENTATIVES standing unpleasant news in his ear.
The aide shrugging, the General leaning over to a nervous man sitting next to him.SECRETARY OF DEFENSE McKINLEY.
Another angle. Two of Buckaroo's men, RENO and PERFECT TOMMY, sitting with their boots on a computer console.
.an attractive NETWORK TV ANCHORWOMAN headed this way.
.an attractive NETWORK TV ANCHORWOMAN headed this way.
INT. OPERATING ROOM - DAY 13 THE EYES OF DOCTOR BUCKAROO BANZAI, THE REST OF HIS FACE HIDDEN BY A INT. SURGICAL SCRUB ROOM - DAY 14 .a phone ringing, a NURSE answering it, thenJacketless, A SINISTER PISTOL visible in the tooled leather shoulder holster, RAWHIDE takes the receiver.
Buckaroo, I need an estimate. They're getting antsy over at Mission INT. OPERATING ROOM - DAY 15 Buckaroo Banzai speaks into his GO-FONEREVEALING DOCTOR BANZAI, the great surgeon, surrounded by a well-oiled team of physicians and nurses.his steady, miraculously skilled hands working a LASER KNIFE on the brain of a PATIENT sitting clamped in a serious chair.
The chief needs ten more minutes. I got the chopper waiting. Don't start without us.
PERFECT TOMMY Whadda you need Buckaroo for? The anchorwoman catching his drift, smiling, knowing Perfect Tommy perhaps intimately.Perfect Tommy glancing across the crowded room at Reno raising ten fingers.
Whadda you need Buckaroo for? The anchorwoman catching his drift, smiling, knowing Perfect Tommy perhaps intimately.Perfect Tommy glancing across the crowded room at Reno raising ten fingers.
doing tonight?
Flying to Cambodia. Perfect Tommy frowning severely as she tried on his Stetson, the anchorwoman promptly getting the message and putting it back down.
hadda kill you.
PERFECT TOMMY INT. SURGICAL SCRUB ROOM - DAY 18 Another STAR SURGEON, scrubbing for an operation next door now peeking at his wrist watch TVINT. SURGICAL SCRUB ROOM - DAY 18 Another STAR SURGEON, scrubbing for an operation next door now peeking at his wrist watch TVThe surgeon curious, studying the big TV monitor, Rawhide sensing an explanation is in orderThe surgeon curious, studying the big TV monitor, Rawhide sensing an explanation is in orderoriginal, bypassing massive stroke damage. A subcutaneous microphone's gonna allow the patient to transmit verbal instructions to his own STAR SURGEON gonna come from all over. This guy's an Eskimo.
gonna come from all over. This guy's an Eskimo.
gonna come from all over. This guy's an Eskimo.
BUCKAROO BANZAI JEWISH PHYSICIAN I just lost my nerve.I panicked.again. Buckaroo picking a NIKON up off a table, snapping some pictures of his BUCKAROO BANZAI endeavor, Dr. Zwibel. Ever thought about joining me full-time?
JEWISH PHYSICIAN I just lost my nerve.I panicked.again. Buckaroo picking a NIKON up off a table, snapping some pictures of his BUCKAROO BANZAI endeavor, Dr. Zwibel. Ever thought about joining me full-time?
I just lost my nerve.I panicked.again. Buckaroo picking a NIKON up off a table, snapping some pictures of his BUCKAROO BANZAI endeavor, Dr. Zwibel. Ever thought about joining me full-time?
endeavor, Dr. Zwibel. Ever thought about joining me full-time?
DR. ZWIBEL Buckaroo glancing at the clock on the wall.
Buckaroo glancing at the clock on the wall.
MISSION CONTROL General Catburd and other VIPS happy to observe on their TV monitors the sight of a MAN IN BLACK COMMANDO PARACHUTE SUIT, carrying a BATTERED OLD BRIEFCASE, climbing into the cockpit of.THE JET CAR.
General Catburd and other VIPS happy to observe on their TV monitors the sight of a MAN IN BLACK COMMANDO PARACHUTE SUIT, carrying a BATTERED OLD BRIEFCASE, climbing into the cockpit of.THE JET CAR.
supposed to do anyway?
GENERAL CATBURD SECRETARY OF DEFENSE EXT. JET CAR - DAY 28 The Jet Car undergoing an amazing transformationSECRETARY OF DEFENSE EXT. JET CAR - DAY 28 The Jet Car undergoing an amazing transformationEXT. JET CAR - DAY 31 No kidding. A TWENTY FOOT SHEET OF FIRE ROCKETING FROM THE BACK OF THE
INT. JET CAR - DAY 33 PROF. HIKITA'S VOICE As Buckaroo Banzai twists his steering-wheel mounted TWIN ACCELERATORS, the sudden forward lurch of the Jet Car slamming him back against the EXT. PROVING GROUNDS - DAY 34 THE JET CAR BLASTING OFF! MORE FIRE! MORE SMOKE! INT. BLOCKHOUSE - DAY 35 Technicians and VIPS eye their monitors.
SENATOR CUNNINGHAM Catburd moving aside as Senator Cunningham takes her turn with the viewing device.
Catburd moving aside as Senator Cunningham takes her turn with the viewing device.
INT. HELICOPTER - DAY 38 HIGH OVERHEAD, manned by a TV NEWS CREW.
able to keep that thing on the ground?
EXT. PROVING GROUNDS - DAY 42 Talk about a road hugger.the JET CAR SCREAMS PAST A BANK OF HIGH
three one seven nautical-four hundred.
INT. JET CAR - DAY 44 .as if in response to Catburd's comment, Buckaroo does an amazing thing, NOW FLICKING HIS DIRECTIONAL SIGNAL.
MISSION CONTROL INT. JET CAR - DAY 49 BUCKAROO BANZAI INT. BLOCKHOUSE- DAY 50 Buckaroo's voice through STATIC AND CRACKLE. Professor Hikita white- INT. JET CAR - DAY 51 Buckaroo STILL ACCELERATING, struggling with his mighty machine.fierce vibrations, OIL AND SMOKE filling the cockpit.as he wipes hot oil off his goggles.
INT. JET CAR - DAY 49 BUCKAROO BANZAI INT. BLOCKHOUSE- DAY 50 Buckaroo's voice through STATIC AND CRACKLE. Professor Hikita white- INT. JET CAR - DAY 51 Buckaroo STILL ACCELERATING, struggling with his mighty machine.fierce vibrations, OIL AND SMOKE filling the cockpit.as he wipes hot oil off his goggles.
INT. BLOCKHOUSE- DAY 50 Buckaroo's voice through STATIC AND CRACKLE. Professor Hikita white- INT. JET CAR - DAY 51 Buckaroo STILL ACCELERATING, struggling with his mighty machine.fierce vibrations, OIL AND SMOKE filling the cockpit.as he wipes hot oil off his goggles.
INT. BLOCKHOUSE - DAY 54 A TV MONITOR.A HELICOPTER SHOT revealing that the course thus far traveled by Buckaroo is ON FIRE, the ground literally set ablaze by the incredible speed of his JET CARsevered.that firestorm apparently interfering with communications.Buckaroo Banzai in serious trouble.
Professor Hikita, on pins and needles, face taught, concerned.
SECRETARY OF DEFENSE MISSION CONTROL Buckaroo heard faintly in a STORM OF NOISE.SPEAKING JAPANESE.
Buckaroo heard faintly in a STORM OF NOISE.SPEAKING JAPANESE.
PROF. HIKITA He said, "This Bud's for you, Professor." What does that mean?
He said, "This Bud's for you, Professor." What does that mean?
take the friends of the Earth with him. Rawhide and Reno exchanging very concerned glances.
GENERAL CATBURD INT. JET CAR 67 BUCKAROO'S COCKPIT POV. like a roller coaster ride through a meteor shower - THE EIGHTH DIMENSION, AN ORGANIC ASTEROID HURTLING RIGHT AT US
INT. JET CAR 67 BUCKAROO'S COCKPIT POV. like a roller coaster ride through a meteor shower - THE EIGHTH DIMENSION, AN ORGANIC ASTEROID HURTLING RIGHT AT US
OSCILLATION OVERTHRUSTER again, amid fire and smoke!
He's through it! He's gone through the mountain without a scratch! Oh, my God! Oh, my God in Heaven!
INT. JET CAR - DOWN RANGE - DAY 75 Fifty miles downrange, Buckaroo tries to slow the speeding, smoke- filled JET CAR.
his Brodi knob hard to the right!
EXT. JET CAR - DAY 84 Buckaroo ignoring the phone, taking his lunch bag from the front seat and removing a sandwich, taking a bite of it, and using the foil to pick up the BIZARRE PARASITE from the desert floor.wrapping the weird thing up.now at last reaching for the car phone.
EXT. JET CAR - DAY 86 Buckaroo leaning in to check his gauges, talking on his telephone. TWO FIGURES from the news copter approaching, still a hundred yards off.
Broke my windshield.
The creatures? They attacked you? They tried to possess you?
Buckaroo, Catburd here. I got egg all over my face, but that's okay. No room for egos here. We're all Americans and I wanna buy that thing of yours. What's it gonna run me?
GENERAL CATBURD .as the Secretary of Defense picks up a RED PHONE.
.as the Secretary of Defense picks up a RED PHONE.
INT. HOME FOR CRIMINALLY INSANCE - DAY 88 CLOSE ON the haunting, unsettling eyes of DOCTOR LIZARDO, AN ORANGE- HAIRED OLD MAN watching NETWORK FOOTAGE of the Jet Car Test on his battered Philco TV set.his eyes practically burning a whole through the screen. .PULLING BACK TO REVEAL a room in an insane asylum, a room designed for several inmates but occupied by only one, this crazy old fiend.the empty beds piled with books and Italian memorabilia, the walls covered with mathematical equations.
The Overthruster! The Overthruster! Lizardo looking back at his equation, at first puzzled to find it erased, then becoming angry.
The Overthruster!
Doctor Lizardo pulling on a leather helmet, Professor Hikita nodding grimly at the LAB ASSISTANTS who tug on a GIANT LEVER.the
PROF. HIKITA AT A FANTASTIC SPEED down the rails!
AT A FANTASTIC SPEED down the rails!
dragging him back into the room only to find this SUDDENLY ORANGE- HAIRED LIZARDO a fearsome, changed individual.a beast!
too damn much juice.ten thousand kilowatts again this month. Beats me how one old homicidal loony could use that much power. The guard leaving with Lizardo's TV.Lizardo trying to control himself, his eyes rolling up at the ceiling where yet another UNUSUAL EQUATION has been scrawled in an angry hand.
I want it.
admitting an out-of-breath and hastily tuxedoed Buckaroo Banzai, A SMALL CROWD OF ASSORTED FEMAL FANS locked outside.
BUCKAROO BANZAI Rawhide taking a half-eaten sandwich out of his hat and tossing it to BUCKAROO BANZAI  Check in with the Institute, Reno, see if everything's kosher.
BUCKAROO BANZAI Rawhide taking a half-eaten sandwich out of his hat and tossing it to BUCKAROO BANZAI  Check in with the Institute, Reno, see if everything's kosher.
Rawhide taking a half-eaten sandwich out of his hat and tossing it to BUCKAROO BANZAI  Check in with the Institute, Reno, see if everything's kosher.
Check in with the Institute, Reno, see if everything's kosher.
you pulled off the Jet Car drive shaft.
crack in her windshield.
PERFECT TOMMY Perfect Tommy producing a highly sophisticated SLIDE VIEWER.Buckaroo slipping in a transparency.
Perfect Tommy producing a highly sophisticated SLIDE VIEWER.Buckaroo slipping in a transparency.
PERFECT TOMMY Rawhide reclaiming his raunchy slide, Buckaroo looking back into the sleek device.
Rawhide reclaiming his raunchy slide, Buckaroo looking back into the sleek device.
dead now, although it still conducts electricity even better than copper does.
PROF. HIKITA  .notice.although certain components resist identification, it corresponds very closely to an ordinary praying mantis.
.notice.although certain components resist identification, it corresponds very closely to an ordinary praying mantis.
Too closely. Gotta be more than sheer coincidence. Rawhide, you're keen on bugs. What do you think? Rawhide takes a look as Reno hangs the phone up.
Car and she's under lock and key. He's retiming her valves. Buckaroo nodding, as he's interrupted by Perfect Tommy who's now brought over the female reporter.
BUCKAROO BANZAI PERFECT TOMMY Perfect Tommy quickly taking a place beside Buckaroo, smiling into the camera, as Reno and Rawhide exchange disgusted looks.
PERFECT TOMMY Perfect Tommy quickly taking a place beside Buckaroo, smiling into the camera, as Reno and Rawhide exchange disgusted looks.
Perfect Tommy quickly taking a place beside Buckaroo, smiling into the camera, as Reno and Rawhide exchange disgusted looks.
band. I want some music outta you characters.
BUCKAROO BANZAI PERFECT TOMMY A pair of no-nonsense BLUE SHIELD IRREGULARS appearing to escort them on-stage.as Rawhide returns the spectroscope to Professor Hikita.
PERFECT TOMMY A pair of no-nonsense BLUE SHIELD IRREGULARS appearing to escort them on-stage.as Rawhide returns the spectroscope to Professor Hikita.
A pair of no-nonsense BLUE SHIELD IRREGULARS appearing to escort them on-stage.as Rawhide returns the spectroscope to Professor Hikita.
hadda guess? A mutated species.
I said is someone out there crying in the darkness? Yes, indeed.Penny's voice, weaklyADDRESS SYSTEM. BUCKAROO BANZAI PENNY PRIDDY This is so embarrassing.
PENNY PRIDDY This is so embarrassing.
This is so embarrassing.
your name?
For reasons out of their control, Penny's name coming across to Buckaroo and the Cavaliers as "Peggy," said name immediately eliciting a surprised reaction from the Cavaliers. .Buckaroo amazed as well.a not-too-distant pain deep in his soul momentarily manifesting itself, although he makes a brave attempt at nonchalance.as now Penny is given that microphone.
PENNY PRIDDY anything to you. I'm a nobody. The business of the names settled, Buckaroo and the Cavaliers breathing a bit more easily.
anything to you. I'm a nobody. The business of the names settled, Buckaroo and the Cavaliers breathing a bit more easily.
PENNY PRIDDY Did I say anything was wrong? I just sponged up a little too much Vat 69, okay? I'm down to my last nickel in this lousy town, I can't get my luggage outta hock 'cause I met this jerk who said he was a record producer when all he had was a record. He offered to set me up for life, and like a fool, well, I.
Did I say anything was wrong? I just sponged up a little too much Vat 69, okay? I'm down to my last nickel in this lousy town, I can't get my luggage outta hock 'cause I met this jerk who said he was a record producer when all he had was a record. He offered to set me up for life, and like a fool, well, I.
PENNY PRIDDY  I lost my room this morning. I don't know where I'm gonna sleep tonight, but I keep going. What the hell else can I do? I've still got my figure, and like this bozo said, as long as there's a sidewalk, I'll always have a job. A few snickers.BUCKAROO shooting a disapproving look at those guilty of laughing at another person's misfortune.
I lost my room this morning. I don't know where I'm gonna sleep tonight, but I keep going. What the hell else can I do? I've still got my figure, and like this bozo said, as long as there's a sidewalk, I'll always have a job. A few snickers.BUCKAROO shooting a disapproving look at those guilty of laughing at another person's misfortune.
been there. Buckaroo moving to a piano.starting to play.
your luck.
My name's, Penny! But who cares?
BUCKAROO BANZAI ARTIE DUNCAN'S VOICE postures.Buckaroo too.but his mind still half on Penny Priddy.
ARTIE DUNCAN'S VOICE postures.Buckaroo too.but his mind still half on Penny Priddy.
catches the astonished guard around the throat, lifting him off the floor, Lizardo's left hand picking up the telephone.
Yoyodyne Propulsions Systems. Grover's Mill, New Jersey. Tell him it's John Whorfin calling. That's W-H-O-R-F-I-N. Got it, honey? John! J-O-H-
Lizardo waiting for the call to go through as he strangles the last breath of air out of the helpless guard, drops him to the linoleum, reaching for the dead man's keys.
Of course it's me, John Bigboote, you fool! Prepare for my return! The time has come. Haven't you heard? Don't you watch TV? Banzai and Hikita have done it! I'll meet you at the factory. Get that overthruster! And the little Jap! Alive! Banzai's too dangerous. Lizardo ripping the phone out of the wall, hurling it across the .those inmates playing their video games fleeing like rabbits when they see that.Lizardo obviously no ordinary lunatic, as he proves by simply reaching out and.
.Perfect Tommy getting up and peeking at the newspaper over Buckaroo's shoulder.then returning to Reno.their voices low.
.Perfect Tommy getting up and peeking at the newspaper over Buckaroo's shoulder.then returning to Reno.their voices low.
PERFECT TOMMY PERFECT TOMMY so too or else he wouldn't be ready to go make a fool of himself, appearing, offering a COMPUTER PRINT-OUT.
PERFECT TOMMY PERFECT TOMMY so too or else he wouldn't be ready to go make a fool of himself, appearing, offering a COMPUTER PRINT-OUT.
PERFECT TOMMY so too or else he wouldn't be ready to go make a fool of himself, appearing, offering a COMPUTER PRINT-OUT.
PERFECT TOMMY so too or else he wouldn't be ready to go make a fool of himself, appearing, offering a COMPUTER PRINT-OUT.
so too or else he wouldn't be ready to go make a fool of himself, appearing, offering a COMPUTER PRINT-OUT.
notified. That old pal of the professor's, Dr. Emilio Lizardo? The one you did the brain scan on? He killed a guard last night, broke outta the Trenton Home for the Criminally Insane, stole a Masarati, totaled it a block away. Buckaroo's expression changing at the mention of the name Lizardo.taking the BUCKAROO BANZAI PERFECT TOMMY PERFECT TOMMY with crazy eyes and flaming orange hair that once upon a time was mousy brown like yours.
PERFECT TOMMY PERFECT TOMMY with crazy eyes and flaming orange hair that once upon a time was mousy brown like yours.
PERFECT TOMMY PERFECT TOMMY with crazy eyes and flaming orange hair that once upon a time was mousy brown like yours.
PERFECT TOMMY with crazy eyes and flaming orange hair that once upon a time was mousy brown like yours.
PERFECT TOMMY with crazy eyes and flaming orange hair that once upon a time was mousy brown like yours.
with crazy eyes and flaming orange hair that once upon a time was mousy brown like yours.
with crazy eyes and flaming orange hair that once upon a time was mousy brown like yours.
PERFECT TOMMY Why? What's going on? Anything I oughta know? C'mon, Rawhide, spill Buckaroo nodding his permission.
PERFECT TOMMY Why? What's going on? Anything I oughta know? C'mon, Rawhide, spill Buckaroo nodding his permission.
Why? What's going on? Anything I oughta know? C'mon, Rawhide, spill Buckaroo nodding his permission.
discover the Eighth Dimension. Almost fifty years ago. Before Buckaroo's parents even knew each other. But there was trouble, a rocket catapult failed and Dr. Lizardo got sucked half in, half out.when they hauled him back ,he wasn't the same guy. His hair was BUCKAROO BANZAI got caught and judged insane. The professor told us they threw away the key.
got caught and judged insane. The professor told us they threw away the key.
got caught and judged insane. The professor told us they threw away the key.
BUCKAROO BANZAI Buckaroo heading for the door.Rawhide drawing a receipt book from his Buckaroo and Reno automatically turning to Perfect Tommy.
Buckaroo heading for the door.Rawhide drawing a receipt book from his Buckaroo and Reno automatically turning to Perfect Tommy.
Buckaroo and Reno automatically turning to Perfect Tommy.
INT. WORLD WATCH ONE/BUS - DAY 134 .the guys following Buckaroo into an amazing ELECTRONIC NERVE CENTER, like the rugged interior of an AWACS, dimly lighted instrument panels manned by two BLUE SHIELD TECHNICAL EXPERTS.
her up statistically, check it for the next twenty-four hours, then shovel the data over to Reno.
had time to pack my saddlebags.
Fellas, meet a medical colleague, Sid Zwibel. He'll be riding with us from now on, so get acquainted while I snoop around. Buckaroo heading over to the DESK SERGEANT on duty.
PERFECT TOMMY DR. ZWIBEL New Jersey!
DR. ZWIBEL New Jersey!
New Jersey!
DR. ZWIBEL PERFECT TOMMY and introduce him to the rest of the hands.
PERFECT TOMMY and introduce him to the rest of the hands.
and introduce him to the rest of the hands.
PERFECT TOMMY Reno picking up Doctor Zwibel's huge stereo and suitcase.
Reno picking up Doctor Zwibel's huge stereo and suitcase.
INT. CELL - DAY 138 Penny sitting on her bunk, a disheveled mess.depressed, her head buried in her hands as Buckaroo arrives. She sees his reflection in the pitiful mirror above her toilet.
BUCKAROO BANZAI any of this craziness.
any of this craziness.
BUCKAROO BANZAI PENNY PRIDDY BUCKAROO BANZAI Silence. Penny realizing you don't fool this man with the sloppy bowtie.coming over to the bars.
PENNY PRIDDY BUCKAROO BANZAI Silence. Penny realizing you don't fool this man with the sloppy bowtie.coming over to the bars.
BUCKAROO BANZAI Silence. Penny realizing you don't fool this man with the sloppy bowtie.coming over to the bars.
Silence. Penny realizing you don't fool this man with the sloppy bowtie.coming over to the bars.
BUCKAROO BANZAI PENNY PRIDDY BUCKAROO BANZAI PENNY PRIDDY Meaning fixing his tie.which she's trying to do.
PENNY PRIDDY BUCKAROO BANZAI PENNY PRIDDY Meaning fixing his tie.which she's trying to do.
BUCKAROO BANZAI PENNY PRIDDY Meaning fixing his tie.which she's trying to do.
PENNY PRIDDY Meaning fixing his tie.which she's trying to do.
Meaning fixing his tie.which she's trying to do.
PENNY PRIDDY BUCKAROO BANZAI PENNY PRIDDY right, sure, I forgotBUCKAROO BANZAI PENNY PRIDDY right, sure, I forgotPENNY PRIDDY right, sure, I forgotright, sure, I forgotPenny taking too long to retie Buckaroo's tie.an excuse to be near BUCKAROO BANZAI PENNY PRIDDY Things really heating up between these two.Buckaroo changing the subject.blocking Perfect Tommy's view.
PENNY PRIDDY Things really heating up between these two.Buckaroo changing the subject.blocking Perfect Tommy's view.
Things really heating up between these two.Buckaroo changing the subject.blocking Perfect Tommy's view.
PENNY PRIDDY BUCKAROO BANZAI PENNY PRIDDY was adopted.
BUCKAROO BANZAI PENNY PRIDDY was adopted.
PENNY PRIDDY was adopted.
was adopted.
PENNY PRIDDY BUCKAROO BANZAI what you have. Buckaroo touching her moist cheek, wiping away a tear. Perfect Tommy and the Desk Sergeant exchanging looks.
BUCKAROO BANZAI what you have. Buckaroo touching her moist cheek, wiping away a tear. Perfect Tommy and the Desk Sergeant exchanging looks.
what you have. Buckaroo touching her moist cheek, wiping away a tear. Perfect Tommy and the Desk Sergeant exchanging looks.
BUCKAROO BANZAI PERFECT TOMMY Buckaroo and Penny unable to look away from each other.
PERFECT TOMMY Buckaroo and Penny unable to look away from each other.
Buckaroo and Penny unable to look away from each other.
INT. PRESS CONFERENCE - AFTERNOON 139 REPORTERS, cameras, microphones, and a small audience of VIPS, civilian and military, in a large hotel conference room.eyes on the ticking clock.examining charts and MODELS OF SUBATOMIC PARTICLES.on the dais, Professor Hikita, Secretary of Defense McKinley and Senator Cunningham, waiting for Buckaroo.
BUCKAROO BANZAI I'm assigning a couple Blue Shields to protect you around the clock, just in case. Professor Hikita removing the OSCILLATION OVERTHRUSTER from his battered briefcase and laying it on the table. Buckaroo taking a sip of water.
I'm assigning a couple Blue Shields to protect you around the clock, just in case. Professor Hikita removing the OSCILLATION OVERTHRUSTER from his battered briefcase and laying it on the table. Buckaroo taking a sip of water.
ago, nearly to this day, my mother and father and Sir Alan Motley, all former colleagues of Professor Toichi Hikita at the Texas School of Mines, gave their lives for what was considered at the time an insane notionSOMEONE ELSE'S NEARSIGHTED POV, PEERING AT THE BACK OF PROFESSOR HIKITA'S HEAD THROUGH A CRACK IN THE CURTAINS BEHIND THE DAIS. several packs of 'Sweet 'n' Low' to their thick coffee as.
talking twister physics. Quantum Mechanics. Now you see, now you don't. This table I'm sitting behind? It appears to be solid matter, Buckaroo demonstrating by picking up his plastic water glass, dropping it, splashing water left and right as the container naturally bounces off the table.
quarks, your neutrons and electrons.they comprise only about one quadrillionth of its total volume.
solid matter is mostly empty space, a person oughta be able to discover a to travel inside things like tables. And mountains.
gradient synchronizer that softens solid matter by attenuating its electroweak forces!
2nd REPORTER What about the Pentagon? The possibility of war in the Eighth Dimension, Mr. Secretary?
SOME APPLAUSE, the Secretary of Defense eyeing Penny critically as the lights dim.as RADAR SHIELD ONE slips into the room, approaches the dais, and the FIRST SLIDE is projected onto the screen.
RADAR SHIELD ONE plainly visible.7541.
RADAR SHIELD ONE Can't tell. It's real fuzzy. I patched him through to a pay phone down the hall.
in the North Atlantic. Long thought to have been torpedoed, these pictures of 7541 were taken yesterday in the Eighth Dimension.
A loud murmur from the audience as the next slide in the projector proves to be a remarkable image. .of AN UPSIDE DOWN SEVENTEENTH CENTURY PIRATE VESSEL. 151 .Buckaroo starting from the table only to be reminded by Penny.handing him the OSCILLATION OVERTHRUSTER.Buckaroo declining it.
PENNY PRIDDY EXT. OUTER SPACE - AFTERNOON 153 Meanwhile, several thousand miles overhead, a HUGE SPIKEY SPACECRAFT
EXT. OUTER SPACE - AFTERNOON 153 Meanwhile, several thousand miles overhead, a HUGE SPIKEY SPACECRAFT
Nothing from the other end except ODD SOUNDING COMPUTER BEEPS and the STATIC-LADEN VOICES of several operators.
BUCKAROO BANZAI Go back to the bus and reroute the call.
BUCKAROO BANZAI Go back to the bus and reroute the call.
Go back to the bus and reroute the call.
is on the level. We're busy people here.
Reno complying, the lights returning to normal, Buckaroo dazed, his hand moving automatically, writing on any surface available. A SPARK flying when he touches the metal-tipped pen to metal! 160 Buckaroo finally settling for his hand, SCRIBBLING NUMBERS ON HIS PALM.
sophisticated rifle accelerator firing a steady stream of protons at a target-in this case a mountain-and the Jet Car as a giant super- conducting magnet. The Secretary of Defense fascinated. 163
I don't guess they matter. It's like cheesecloth, I think. Minkowiski .as all eyes turn to see a still woozy Buckaroo Banzai returning, pointing dramatically at John Gomez and John O'Connor in the BUCKAROO BANZAI The Cavaliers haven't a clue what he's talking about.
The Cavaliers haven't a clue what he's talking about.
BUCKAROO'S POV.SOMETHING EXTRAORDINARY.ACROSS THE ROOM, TWO GHASTLY ALIENS, GIANT RED ARACHTOIDS WEARING SUITS AND TIES, HOLDING COFFEE BUCKAROO BANZAI in the room seeing what Buckaroo does, seeing instead only those two redheaded gents who like their coffee sweet, John O'Connor and John Gomez.COULD THEY POSSIBLY BE THE CRIMSON CREATURES BUCKAROO THINKS
in the room seeing what Buckaroo does, seeing instead only those two redheaded gents who like their coffee sweet, John O'Connor and John Gomez.COULD THEY POSSIBLY BE THE CRIMSON CREATURES BUCKAROO THINKS
SENATOR CUNNINGHAM RED ALIENS racing for the nearest exit!
RED ALIENS racing for the nearest exit!
.the masked John Bigboot FIRING once, wounding Reno in the JOHN BIGBOOT The pistol stuck in Professor Hikita's ear convincing the Cavaliers to obey, to watch helplessly as the kidnapper backs his victim through the curtain and out of sight.as new Jersey administers first aid to Reno and Penny strokes the fallen Cavalier's hair, berating the idle bystanders around themThe pistol stuck in Professor Hikita's ear convincing the Cavaliers to obey, to watch helplessly as the kidnapper backs his victim through the curtain and out of sight.as new Jersey administers first aid to Reno and Penny strokes the fallen Cavalier's hair, berating the idle bystanders around themjellyfish wallowing in self-pity, prey to ruthless hoodlums who pick us off like flies?
with the cry "So far and no farther will we be pushed!"
INT. CORRIDOR - LATE AFTERNOON 170 The Cavaliers coming from two directions, colliding at an PERFECT TOMMY EXT. CITY STREETS - LATE AFTERNOON 171 The van speeds by.the motorcycle pursues!
EXT. CITY STREETS - LATE AFTERNOON 171 The van speeds by.the motorcycle pursues!
EXT. CITY STREETS - LATE AFTERNOON 171 The van speeds by.the motorcycle pursues!
EXT. CITY STREETS - LATE AFTERNOON 171 The van speeds by.the motorcycle pursues!
The FRIGHTFUL sound of the CREATURE'S FAILING LUNGS.a terrific noise as the duck hunters hurry to where their unnatural kill hangs obscured in a gigantic tree.their dog running ahead, intent on retrieving this unusual "BIRD".
The other hunter following the ODD SPERE as it backs his buddy into a shallow swamp.the thing coming to a stop and.
EXT. COUNTRYSIDE - TWILIGHT 184 Buckaroo still on his MOTORCYCLE in pursuit of the van, taking a daring shortcut down a treacherous hillside.
A black thermopod's been shot down ten miles back.
John Bigboot looking at John Gomez for any possible explanation.
JOHN O'CONNER six hundred sixty million miles away.
six hundred sixty million miles away.
They know everything! I told Whorfin to sit tight. This could be the end of us all! We gotta get Banzai's Overthruster and get off this EXT. VAN - TWILIGHT 186 The van making a 180( turn!
JOHN O'CONNOR John Gomez opening the glove compartment, taking out a pistolJohn Gomez opening the glove compartment, taking out a pistolJOHN O'CONNOR John Bigboot just driving.his strange eyes set.
John Bigboot just driving.his strange eyes set.
INT. PRESS CONFERENCE ROOM - TWILIGHT 190 Back in the press conference room, the anxious Cavaliers try to help several LAW ENFORCEMENT TYPES reconstruct the professor's kidnapping. A TINY BUZZER going off in Rawhide's pocketlotta static.
homing beacon, mark two minute intervals.
BUCKAROO BANZAI  That crate!
That crate!
BUCKAROO BANZAI dig up everything you can on an outfit called Yoyodyne.
dig up everything you can on an outfit called Yoyodyne.
Yoyodyne Propulsion Systems? You think they're mixed up in this? .Reno sitting down next to Penny at the piano, his wounded arm in a sling but his fingers nimble as ever.
PENNY PRIDDY some action. Seen plenty of it too. So will you if you stick around.
PENNY PRIDDY some action. Seen plenty of it too. So will you if you stick around.
some action. Seen plenty of it too. So will you if you stick around.
some action. Seen plenty of it too. So will you if you stick around.
Rawhide calling from across the room.
Rawhide calling from across the room.
Reno getting up, Penny unsure at that moment whether she's being included, as those steely eyes of Rawhide zero in on her.
EXT. ROAD - NIGHT 193 Darkness as Buckaroo races on, the taillights of the van far ahead.
EXT. CRASH SITE - NIGHT 195 The Yoyodyne van approaching the scene of the downed spacecraft, the headlights of the single HIGHWAY PATROL CAR illuminating the CORPSE OF THE DEAD CREATURE in the water.the HIGHWAY PATROLMAN pulling the figure out of the water, the hunters standing by.
2ND HUNTER The other hunter tossing a plastic tarp over the body as they all turn to regard the headlights of the Yoyodyne van.the cop heading that heavy brush, creeping closer to the crash site for a better look.
The other hunter tossing a plastic tarp over the body as they all turn to regard the headlights of the Yoyodyne van.the cop heading that heavy brush, creeping closer to the crash site for a better look.
JOHN GOMEZ One of our birds. The highway patrolman returning Bigboot's I.D., still a little skeptical about the whole thing, pointing to THE DEAD CREATURE UNDER
One of our birds. The highway patrolman returning Bigboot's I.D., still a little skeptical about the whole thing, pointing to THE DEAD CREATURE UNDER
John Bigboot having a ready answer.
rear door with a locksmith's pick attached to his special SWISS ARMY
John O'Connor stepping out for a smoke.
INT. VAN - NIGHT 205 .as Buckaroo stealthily enters, working the lock on the crate now with his all-purpose lighter.
they're nothing like this-
John Bigboot shooting John Gomez a hard stare.
JOHN BIGBOOT HIGHWAY PATROLMAN Right up his alley, I think. John Bigboot's mood suddenly changing.tensing.
HIGHWAY PATROLMAN Right up his alley, I think. John Bigboot's mood suddenly changing.tensing.
Right up his alley, I think. John Bigboot's mood suddenly changing.tensing.
HIGHWAY PATROLMAN The three of them looking up at another pair of headlights arriving, A SEDAN, the cop yelling at themThe three of them looking up at another pair of headlights arriving, A SEDAN, the cop yelling at themJOHN GOMEZ could become a zoo, not to mention a haven for gawkers. The highway patrolman moving off to deal with the sedan.
could become a zoo, not to mention a haven for gawkers. The highway patrolman moving off to deal with the sedan.
HIGHWAY PATROLMAN John Bigboot frowning, telling John GomezJohn Bigboot frowning, telling John GomezJohn Gomez nodding, heading back to the van.
BUCKAROO BANZAI PROF. HIKITA BUCKAROO BANZAI Form the Eighth Dimension, I think. Look. Buckaroo trying to show Professor Hikita the MATHEMATICAL FORMULA written on his hand.
PROF. HIKITA BUCKAROO BANZAI Form the Eighth Dimension, I think. Look. Buckaroo trying to show Professor Hikita the MATHEMATICAL FORMULA written on his hand.
BUCKAROO BANZAI Form the Eighth Dimension, I think. Look. Buckaroo trying to show Professor Hikita the MATHEMATICAL FORMULA written on his hand.
Form the Eighth Dimension, I think. Look. Buckaroo trying to show Professor Hikita the MATHEMATICAL FORMULA written on his hand.
Buckaroo holding a finger to his lips.whispering.
What is it?
BUCKAROO BANZAI scribble this and gave me the ability to penetrate their disguises. Buckaroo opening the door to the van. BUCKAROO SEES the red alien John Gomez coming closer. 211
scribble this and gave me the ability to penetrate their disguises. Buckaroo opening the door to the van. BUCKAROO SEES the red alien John Gomez coming closer. 211
BUCKAROO BANZAI PROF. HIKITA BUCKAROO BANZAI There's a Harley behind those bushes. Get back to the laboratory and start working on the formula. We don't have time to ask questions. Just synthesize it- The professor still without the crucial information, however.John Gomez approaching.
PROF. HIKITA BUCKAROO BANZAI There's a Harley behind those bushes. Get back to the laboratory and start working on the formula. We don't have time to ask questions. Just synthesize it- The professor still without the crucial information, however.John Gomez approaching.
BUCKAROO BANZAI There's a Harley behind those bushes. Get back to the laboratory and start working on the formula. We don't have time to ask questions. Just synthesize it- The professor still without the crucial information, however.John Gomez approaching.
There's a Harley behind those bushes. Get back to the laboratory and start working on the formula. We don't have time to ask questions. Just synthesize it- The professor still without the crucial information, however.John Gomez approaching.
Thinking fast, Buckaroo presses the palm of his hand to Professor Hikita's forehead, the ball-point ink transferring.THE IMPORTANT
EXT. ROAD - NIGHT 213 The highway patrolman talking to the sedan.TWO SHADOWY FIGURES
INT. WOLD WATCH ONE/BUS - NIGHT 214 Meanwhile back on Buckaroo's bus, in the nerve center, Rawhide and Perfect Tommy look at a BLANK OSCILLOSCOPE operated by a Blue Shield PERFECT TOMMY known location
known location
known location
PERFECT TOMMY EXT. CRASH SITE - NIGHT 217 Buckaroo moving dangerously closer to the thermopod as the alien John Gomez returns with the crowbar.his other-worldly comrade demandingEXT. CRASH SITE - NIGHT 217 Buckaroo moving dangerously closer to the thermopod as the alien John Gomez returns with the crowbar.his other-worldly comrade demandingSEDAN SITTING TIGHT. INT. GAS STATION - NIGHT 219 Inside an all-night gas station somewhere in New Jersey, a young black kid named SCOOTER LINDLEY at his SPECIAL HAM RADIO SET, hearingEXT. GAS STATION - NIGHT 220 Scooter racing outside toward his father, CASPER LINDLEY, the station owner, an everyday no-nonsense guy in grungy overalls, presently trying to sell a crushed velvet sofa from the top of a three-tier display rack to a PAIR OF DISCRIMINATING CUSTOMERS.
CASPER LINDLEY INT. PASSENGER SECTION/BUS - NIGHT 221 A weary, worried Rawhide comes back into the front of the bus and takes a seat near Penny and Reno.
INT. PASSENGER SECTION/BUS - NIGHT 221 A weary, worried Rawhide comes back into the front of the bus and takes a seat near Penny and Reno.
Reno wondering if there's more to it than Rawhide's saying.Rawhide losing himself in a copy of American Horseman. Penny leaning forward, thinking, picking at a guitar left on the seat in front of her, watching the mysterious Hong Kong Cavaliers.
Reno wondering if there's more to it than Rawhide's saying.Rawhide losing himself in a copy of American Horseman. Penny leaning forward, thinking, picking at a guitar left on the seat in front of her, watching the mysterious Hong Kong Cavaliers.
PENNY PRIDDY EXT. CRASH SITE - NIGHT 223 Buckaroo jockeying for an improved position, as the alien John Gomez prepares to strike the pod-TWO MEN getting out of the sedan now.ARACHTOIDS in baggy suits. .THE CROWBAR HITTING THE POD for the first time!
PENNY PRIDDY EXT. CRASH SITE - NIGHT 223 Buckaroo jockeying for an improved position, as the alien John Gomez prepares to strike the pod-TWO MEN getting out of the sedan now.ARACHTOIDS in baggy suits. .THE CROWBAR HITTING THE POD for the first time!
EXT. CRASH SITE - NIGHT 223 Buckaroo jockeying for an improved position, as the alien John Gomez prepares to strike the pod-TWO MEN getting out of the sedan now.ARACHTOIDS in baggy suits. .THE CROWBAR HITTING THE POD for the first time!
The cop in a jam, heading back toward the pod, as the two newly arrived redheads follow him despite his instructionsoutta here! .the two goons halting.but as soon as the cop turns, they follow him again.
MRS. JOHNSON MRS. JOHNSON The Cavaliers quickly dispersing.Penny left alone under Mrs. Johnson's curious eyes.
MRS. JOHNSON MRS. JOHNSON The Cavaliers quickly dispersing.Penny left alone under Mrs. Johnson's curious eyes.
MRS. JOHNSON The Cavaliers quickly dispersing.Penny left alone under Mrs. Johnson's curious eyes.
MRS. JOHNSON The Cavaliers quickly dispersing.Penny left alone under Mrs. Johnson's curious eyes.
The Cavaliers quickly dispersing.Penny left alone under Mrs. Johnson's curious eyes.
Department checked into last year-Yoyodyne Propulsion Systems?
Department checked into last year-Yoyodyne Propulsion Systems?
systems. Up to it?
the big ice cream social.
EXT. CRASH SITE - NIGHT 230 Buckaroo watches the alien John Gomez deliver ANOTHER BLOW to the black space pod, as inside.
EXT. CRASH SITE - NIGHT 230 Buckaroo watches the alien John Gomez deliver ANOTHER BLOW to the black space pod, as inside.
ones. John Valuk is dead. He fell on his head, but perhaps John Parker will get through! The screen going dark.
The cop reaches for his pistol when suddenly John Bigboot whirls and lunges out with HIS TELESCOPING ARM, chopping the cop's Adam's apple, knocking him to the ground. .the hunters stunned, one of them reaching for a shotgun when the two newly-arrived Yoyodyne goons attack, easily knocking the hunters to the ground, beating them!
Buckaroo face-to-face with RED ARACHTOID John O'Connor, the latter surprised to discover it's.
Buckaroo taking advantage of this creature's momentary amazement to kick O'Connor below the belt.dropping him to the turf.now spying yet another set of headlights coming down the road.
It's Buckaroo Banzai! Get him! He let the professor outta the box!
Blue Shield, at your disposal. And my son, Scooter.
tonight. Mind if I get on the horn and radio the Cavaliers? They'll be worried. Buckaroo reaching for the mike, relieved to feel only a SLIGHT ELECTRICAL CHARGE on touching it.
SCOOTER LINDLEY EXT. FRONT GATES/BUCKAROO'S HOUSE - NIGHT 242 Professor Hikita on motorcycle, being waved through the front gate by a BLUE SHIELD GUARD while a second Shield, PINKY CARRUTHERS , telephones ahead.
EXT. FRONT GATES/BUCKAROO'S HOUSE - NIGHT 242 Professor Hikita on motorcycle, being waved through the front gate by a BLUE SHIELD GUARD while a second Shield, PINKY CARRUTHERS , telephones ahead.
INT. STUDIO COMPUTER ROOM - NIGHT 243 Reno on the phone, getting the word on Hikita while the other Cavaliers watch Billy call up a strange senseless MAZE OF LETTERS AND NUMBERS on his monitor.
NEW JERSEY coherent.a batch of names and dates, vital statistics.headed
NEW JERSEY coherent.a batch of names and dates, vital statistics.headed
coherent.a batch of names and dates, vital statistics.headed
Could be highly revealing.
Could be highly revealing.
The professor just pulled in, jabbering something about space monsters, locked himself in his lab.
INT. HALLWAY/BUCKAROO'S HOUSE - NIGHT 246 Mrs. Johnson leading Penny down a richly paneled corridor past pictures and momentoes of Buckaroo and the Cavaliers, past and present.
then see what happened to Buckaroo's last sweetheart happen to you.
Mrs. Johnson biting her tongue.
PENNY PRIDDY MRS. JOHNSON Penny staring at this strange young girl, not knowing what to say.
MRS. JOHNSON Penny staring at this strange young girl, not knowing what to say.
Penny staring at this strange young girl, not knowing what to say.
MRS. JOHNSON .Mrs. Johnson opening a guest room door.Penny eyeing those forbidden stairs.
.Mrs. Johnson opening a guest room door.Penny eyeing those forbidden stairs.
Billy staring intently at the monitor.the others leaning in.
Jersey on the exact same date.
birth. And all of them with the same first namebirth. And all of them with the same first namebirth. And all of them with the same first namebirth. And all of them with the same first nameNovember.when short February's done, all the rest have thirty-one. October 31st! Halloween! Don't you get it?  Orson Welles!
NEW JERSEY that got everybody scared, thinking that real live Martians were landing in Grover's Mill, New Jersey! But then it all just turned out to be a hoax.
that got everybody scared, thinking that real live Martians were landing in Grover's Mill, New Jersey! But then it all just turned out to be a hoax.
NEW JERSEY EXT. FRONT GATES/BUCKAROO'S HOUSE - NIGHT 250 Pinky Carruthers aboard his palomino as JOHN PARKER  rides up outside the gate on a bicycle.holding a STRANGE YELLOW RECORD in his grasp.
NEW JERSEY EXT. FRONT GATES/BUCKAROO'S HOUSE - NIGHT 250 Pinky Carruthers aboard his palomino as JOHN PARKER  rides up outside the gate on a bicycle.holding a STRANGE YELLOW RECORD in his grasp.
EXT. FRONT GATES/BUCKAROO'S HOUSE - NIGHT 250 Pinky Carruthers aboard his palomino as JOHN PARKER  rides up outside the gate on a bicycle.holding a STRANGE YELLOW RECORD in his grasp.
EXT. FRONT GATES/BUCKAROO'S HOUSE - NIGHT 250 Pinky Carruthers aboard his palomino as JOHN PARKER  rides up outside the gate on a bicycle.holding a STRANGE YELLOW RECORD in his grasp.
EXT. FRONT GATES/BUCKAROO'S HOUSE - NIGHT 250 Pinky Carruthers aboard his palomino as JOHN PARKER  rides up outside the gate on a bicycle.holding a STRANGE YELLOW RECORD in his grasp.
JOHN PARKER PINKY CARRUTHERS Pinky Carruthers snatching the ODD YELLOW RECORD through the gate.
PINKY CARRUTHERS Pinky Carruthers snatching the ODD YELLOW RECORD through the gate.
Pinky Carruthers snatching the ODD YELLOW RECORD through the gate.
PINKY CARRUTHERS see" Buckaroo in person. And with that Pinky Carruthers is gone, trotting up toward the mansion on his palomino. .as a frustrated John Parker suddenly sticks his nose in the air, getting a whiff of something, causing him to get on his bike and EXT. OUTSIDE SECURITY WALL - NIGHT 251 .around the corner of Buckaroo's estate where he notices a PARKED VAN and THREE SHADOWY FIGURES lowering themselves into the ground near the high security wall.disappearing. .John Parker approaching, beholding.that familiar "Yoyodyne" van.and a FRESHLY DUG HOLE, crawling into the hold himself.
see" Buckaroo in person. And with that Pinky Carruthers is gone, trotting up toward the mansion on his palomino. .as a frustrated John Parker suddenly sticks his nose in the air, getting a whiff of something, causing him to get on his bike and EXT. OUTSIDE SECURITY WALL - NIGHT 251 .around the corner of Buckaroo's estate where he notices a PARKED VAN and THREE SHADOWY FIGURES lowering themselves into the ground near the high security wall.disappearing. .John Parker approaching, beholding.that familiar "Yoyodyne" van.and a FRESHLY DUG HOLE, crawling into the hold himself.
John Parker jerking his head around, finding himself confronting the FRIGHTENING SILHOUETTE of a Blue Shield in camouflage commando gear.
EXT. GARAGE - NIGHT 255 In the buses, CLOSE ON SOMETHING WEIRD EMERGING SLOWLY FROM TEH ALIEN
JOHN BIGBOOT JOHN O'CONNOR JOHN GOMEZ EXT. GARAGE - NIGHT 257 Outside, John Gomez making a startling discoveryJOHN O'CONNOR JOHN GOMEZ EXT. GARAGE - NIGHT 257 Outside, John Gomez making a startling discoveryJOHN GOMEZ EXT. GARAGE - NIGHT 257 Outside, John Gomez making a startling discoveryEXT. GARAGE - NIGHT 257 Outside, John Gomez making a startling discoveryBUCKAROO BANZAI MRS. JOHNSON A shaken Rawhide, Reno, Perfect Tommy appearing on the stairway.
MRS. JOHNSON A shaken Rawhide, Reno, Perfect Tommy appearing on the stairway.
A shaken Rawhide, Reno, Perfect Tommy appearing on the stairway.
BUCKAROO BANZAI Buckaroo heading up the stairs.
Buckaroo heading up the stairs.
Buckaroo heading up the stairs.
Tommy? The invisible body?
at Grover's Mills, New Jersey.
they fooled Orson Welles into covering it up! And then they founded Yoyodyne Propulsion Systems and hid there for.
PERFECT TOMMY around with his own stupid Overthruster.
around with his own stupid Overthruster.
that stole the good doc's body the year before in the Eighth Dimension when Prof. Hikita's lab exploded.
that stole the good doc's body the year before in the Eighth Dimension when Prof. Hikita's lab exploded.
snapped? Of course! What else?
talk to the head honcho.
INT. INSTITUTE LABORATORY - NIGHT 261 Professor Hikita and his assistant toil away, starting at.
of SMOKE AND SPARKS, A GORGEOUS BLACK HUMAN FEMAL sizzles up from the grooves of the record and hovers in mid-air.A HOLOGRAM!
A common grave danger confronts both our worlds.
Reno picking her things up, as Mrs. Johnson backs away from the HOLOGRAM and sticks the burritos in a portable microwave oven in the corner of Buckaroo's desk.
the self-proclaimed "Lord" Whorfin, a bloodthirsty butcher as evil as your Hitler was overthrown by freedom-loving forces, tried, and condemned, along with several hundred of his followers, to spend eternity in the formless void of the Eighth Dimension. Death was deemed too good for their ilk.
MRS. JOHNSON BUCKAROO BANZAI JOHN EMDALL the real Doctor Lizardo, then John Whorfin would still be locked safely away on another plane of existence.
BUCKAROO BANZAI JOHN EMDALL the real Doctor Lizardo, then John Whorfin would still be locked safely away on another plane of existence.
JOHN EMDALL the real Doctor Lizardo, then John Whorfin would still be locked safely away on another plane of existence.
the real Doctor Lizardo, then John Whorfin would still be locked safely away on another plane of existence.
dressed up in aluminum foil. With a weird album.how the hell was I supposed to know he came from outer space? Buckaroo moving dangerously close to the HOLOGRAM. John Emdall suddenly pointing right at the great man. 273
further with your Oscillation Overthruster! For our intelligence warns us that John Whorfin is about to make good his escape from Earth back through the Eighth Dimension.and on to Planet 10! If he should attempt this we will have no choice but to disrupt worldwide electronic communications and fire a particle beam weapon from your airspace to Smolensk, in the Union of the Soviet Socialist Republics.
first strike!
Widmark will launch a massive counterforce strike.and within twenty minutes the danger to Planet 10 will be removed.
JOHN EMDALL planet. Stop John Whorfin before sunrise! If you fail we will be forced to help you destroy yourselves. End of discussion.
planet. Stop John Whorfin before sunrise! If you fail we will be forced to help you destroy yourselves. End of discussion.
BUCKAROO BANZAI CASPER LINDLEY BUCKAROO BANZAI Mrs. Johnson, take Casper and Scooter, gas up the Jet Car.
CASPER LINDLEY BUCKAROO BANZAI Mrs. Johnson, take Casper and Scooter, gas up the Jet Car.
BUCKAROO BANZAI Mrs. Johnson, take Casper and Scooter, gas up the Jet Car.
Mrs. Johnson, take Casper and Scooter, gas up the Jet Car.
Buckaroo heading for the door.
BUCKAROO BANZAI PERFECT TOMMY INT. INSTITUTE LABORATORY - NIGHT 276 .Professor Hikita and his assistant leaning over the electron tube apparatus, removing a rubber stopper from one of the receptacles, in the process GETTING AN ACCIDENTAL WHIFF of that BIZARRE GLOWING GREEN COMPOUND.Professor Hikita and assistant letting out gasps, seeing a sight that nearly stops their hearts.
PERFECT TOMMY INT. INSTITUTE LABORATORY - NIGHT 276 .Professor Hikita and his assistant leaning over the electron tube apparatus, removing a rubber stopper from one of the receptacles, in the process GETTING AN ACCIDENTAL WHIFF of that BIZARRE GLOWING GREEN COMPOUND.Professor Hikita and assistant letting out gasps, seeing a sight that nearly stops their hearts.
INT. INSTITUTE LABORATORY - NIGHT 276 .Professor Hikita and his assistant leaning over the electron tube apparatus, removing a rubber stopper from one of the receptacles, in the process GETTING AN ACCIDENTAL WHIFF of that BIZARRE GLOWING GREEN COMPOUND.Professor Hikita and assistant letting out gasps, seeing a sight that nearly stops their hearts.
PENNY PRIDDY thought you liked me for myself. But why should you, huh? A jerk like Buckaroo understanding at last the reason for Penny's odd behavior, seeing THE PHOTOGRAPH on his bedstand of a younger, possibly not-yet- so-world-famous Buckaroo Banzai in tuxedo.his pretty companion A DEAD
thought you liked me for myself. But why should you, huh? A jerk like Buckaroo understanding at last the reason for Penny's odd behavior, seeing THE PHOTOGRAPH on his bedstand of a younger, possibly not-yet- so-world-famous Buckaroo Banzai in tuxedo.his pretty companion A DEAD
PENNY'S VOICE BUCKAROO BANZAI maybe coming to an end and I can't stand here and talk to a closet PENNY'S VOICE remind you of her. Buckaroo fidgeting, precious seconds ticking away.
BUCKAROO BANZAI maybe coming to an end and I can't stand here and talk to a closet PENNY'S VOICE remind you of her. Buckaroo fidgeting, precious seconds ticking away.
maybe coming to an end and I can't stand here and talk to a closet PENNY'S VOICE remind you of her. Buckaroo fidgeting, precious seconds ticking away.
remind you of her. Buckaroo fidgeting, precious seconds ticking away.
arachtoids and all.but briefly she was your long lost twin sister, we got married, and that's about all I can say. Right now.  A silence from the other side, the closet door unlocking.slowly opening, revealing Penny standing in the middle of a pile of female PENNY PRIDDY she? With the kids some place? Buckaroo turning.Penny eyeing him, penetrating his soul.
she? With the kids some place? Buckaroo turning.Penny eyeing him, penetrating his soul.
BUCKAROO BANZAI PENNY PRIDDY BUCKAROO BANZAI A pregnant pause, the pain evident on Buckaroo's face as he turns back to the job at hand, picking up his holster and rummaging through the dresser drawer, fighting back the painful memories.
PENNY PRIDDY BUCKAROO BANZAI A pregnant pause, the pain evident on Buckaroo's face as he turns back to the job at hand, picking up his holster and rummaging through the dresser drawer, fighting back the painful memories.
BUCKAROO BANZAI A pregnant pause, the pain evident on Buckaroo's face as he turns back to the job at hand, picking up his holster and rummaging through the dresser drawer, fighting back the painful memories.
A pregnant pause, the pain evident on Buckaroo's face as he turns back to the job at hand, picking up his holster and rummaging through the dresser drawer, fighting back the painful memories.
BUCKAROO BANZAI PENNY PRIDDY BUCKAROO BANZAI PENNY PRIDDY BUCKAROO BANZAI PENNY PRIDDY League? Supreme Commander of the Legion of Death? The Pivot of Mystery himself? You're putting me on. He's a cartoon character.
PENNY PRIDDY BUCKAROO BANZAI PENNY PRIDDY BUCKAROO BANZAI PENNY PRIDDY League? Supreme Commander of the Legion of Death? The Pivot of Mystery himself? You're putting me on. He's a cartoon character.
BUCKAROO BANZAI PENNY PRIDDY BUCKAROO BANZAI PENNY PRIDDY League? Supreme Commander of the Legion of Death? The Pivot of Mystery himself? You're putting me on. He's a cartoon character.
PENNY PRIDDY BUCKAROO BANZAI PENNY PRIDDY League? Supreme Commander of the Legion of Death? The Pivot of Mystery himself? You're putting me on. He's a cartoon character.
BUCKAROO BANZAI PENNY PRIDDY League? Supreme Commander of the Legion of Death? The Pivot of Mystery himself? You're putting me on. He's a cartoon character.
PENNY PRIDDY League? Supreme Commander of the Legion of Death? The Pivot of Mystery himself? You're putting me on. He's a cartoon character.
League? Supreme Commander of the Legion of Death? The Pivot of Mystery himself? You're putting me on. He's a cartoon character.
Penny having to sit down and think about this as Buckaroo straps on his guns.changes his torn and shredded jacket.Penny looking at a BUCKAROO BANZAI COMIC BOOK on the night stand.then at the framed photograph of Peggy.
I guess is good, under the circumstances. I bet you'll never forget her though. One look at Buckaroo says it all.
PENNY PRIDDY mixed emotions-I don't know if I can handle this. Oh, boy.
mixed emotions-I don't know if I can handle this. Oh, boy.
PENNY PRIDDY BUCKAROO BANZAI Please, Penny. You just gotta trust me now. Okay? And don't panic. Because it's gonna be all right.
BUCKAROO BANZAI Please, Penny. You just gotta trust me now. Okay? And don't panic. Because it's gonna be all right.
Please, Penny. You just gotta trust me now. Okay? And don't panic. Because it's gonna be all right.
BUCKAROO BANZAI PENNY PRIDDY BUCKAROO BANZAI Penny looks into his eyes.
PENNY PRIDDY BUCKAROO BANZAI Penny looks into his eyes.
BUCKAROO BANZAI Penny looks into his eyes.
Penny looks into his eyes.
adventure? Oh, my God, it's all real.it really is real. I should go with you. Please.
PENNY PRIDDY Starry-eyed, she leans forward to kiss him, Buckaroo about to oblige when their fingers touch, Penny getting a MILD ELECTRICAL SHOCK. .the door suddenly opens and Perfect Tommy sticks his head in.
Starry-eyed, she leans forward to kiss him, Buckaroo about to oblige when their fingers touch, Penny getting a MILD ELECTRICAL SHOCK. .the door suddenly opens and Perfect Tommy sticks his head in.
Buckaroo! Sorry
PERFECT TOMMY haywire over at the lab. Buckaroo running for the door, calling over his shoulder to Pennyhaywire over at the lab. Buckaroo running for the door, calling over his shoulder to PennyPENNY PRIDDY EXT. BUCKAROO'S HOUSE - NIGHT 282 Buckaroo, the Cavaliers, and the Lindleys race out of the house toward the research building.
EXT. BUCKAROO'S HOUSE - NIGHT 282 Buckaroo, the Cavaliers, and the Lindleys race out of the house toward the research building.
John O'Connor, remembering her from the press conference.
John O'Connor vanishing.Penny again at a loss.
PERFECT TOMMY NEW JERSEY BUCKAROO BANZAI INT. INSTITUTE CORRIDORS - NIGHT 286 SHOTS of Cavaliers in empty hallways, guns drawn, discovering evidence of intruders.OFFICES RANSACKED, FURNITURE UPSET.EXPERIMENTS FOULED
NEW JERSEY BUCKAROO BANZAI INT. INSTITUTE CORRIDORS - NIGHT 286 SHOTS of Cavaliers in empty hallways, guns drawn, discovering evidence of intruders.OFFICES RANSACKED, FURNITURE UPSET.EXPERIMENTS FOULED
NEW JERSEY BUCKAROO BANZAI INT. INSTITUTE CORRIDORS - NIGHT 286 SHOTS of Cavaliers in empty hallways, guns drawn, discovering evidence of intruders.OFFICES RANSACKED, FURNITURE UPSET.EXPERIMENTS FOULED
NEW JERSEY BUCKAROO BANZAI INT. INSTITUTE CORRIDORS - NIGHT 286 SHOTS of Cavaliers in empty hallways, guns drawn, discovering evidence of intruders.OFFICES RANSACKED, FURNITURE UPSET.EXPERIMENTS FOULED
BUCKAROO BANZAI INT. INSTITUTE CORRIDORS - NIGHT 286 SHOTS of Cavaliers in empty hallways, guns drawn, discovering evidence of intruders.OFFICES RANSACKED, FURNITURE UPSET.EXPERIMENTS FOULED
INT. INSTITUTE CORRIDORS - NIGHT 286 SHOTS of Cavaliers in empty hallways, guns drawn, discovering evidence of intruders.OFFICES RANSACKED, FURNITURE UPSET.EXPERIMENTS FOULED
Rawhide putting himself in the line of fire, suddenly clutching his lower back.Buckaroo starting toward Rawhide but.
Rawhide putting himself in the line of fire, suddenly clutching his lower back.Buckaroo starting toward Rawhide but.
Buckaroo turning as THE SHADOW OF THE ALIEN JOHN O'CONNOR falls on his .Buckaroo firing his guns, wounding the creature, the disoriented FIGURE retreating out into the corridor as Buckaroo turns in time to see Rawhide's assailant dive into a hole in the floor! A hole in the BUCKAROO BANZAI Buckaroo edging toward that strange orifice in the linoleum, going into it himself.
Buckaroo edging toward that strange orifice in the linoleum, going into it himself.
Buckaroo edging toward that strange orifice in the linoleum, going into it himself.
PROF. HIKITA'S VOICE SOUNDS IN THE DARKNESS, Buckaroo holding his pistol still at the ready but useless in these cramped quarters.Buckaroo finding a worklight, flicking it on.
that very office.the wounded John O'Connor sitting in a swivel desk chair behind the door, oozing blood of a strange color and consistency, staring ferociously at Penny.MORE CLATTER OVERHEAD.as Penny elevates herself partially into the hole.
BUCKAROO BANZAI New Jersey extracting a strange MANY-PRONGED STINGER from Rawhide's back. Buckaroo looking at it.Rawhide maintaining a sense of humor.
New Jersey extracting a strange MANY-PRONGED STINGER from Rawhide's back. Buckaroo looking at it.Rawhide maintaining a sense of humor.
BUCKAROO BANZAI Across the room, Pinky Carruthers comes in with Casper and Scooter Lindley, and that black man from Planet 10, John Parker.
Across the room, Pinky Carruthers comes in with Casper and Scooter Lindley, and that black man from Planet 10, John Parker.
Across the room, Pinky Carruthers comes in with Casper and Scooter Lindley, and that black man from Planet 10, John Parker.
Pinky's words catching in his throat as he sees Rawhide's condition.
John Parker holding the stinger in his palm.
.as it suddenly comes alive! He drops it to the floor, stomps it to PERFECT TOMMY We gotta stop 'em, Buckaroo. Buckaroo turning from the BLACK ARACHTOID to his dying buddy.
We gotta stop 'em, Buckaroo. Buckaroo turning from the BLACK ARACHTOID to his dying buddy.
We gotta stop 'em, Buckaroo. Buckaroo turning from the BLACK ARACHTOID to his dying buddy.
BUT RAWHIDE CLOSING HIS EYES FOR THE FINAL TIME, as Buckaroo feels for a pulse.the look in the great man's eyes saying it all.sadness mixed with anger.
BUT RAWHIDE CLOSING HIS EYES FOR THE FINAL TIME, as Buckaroo feels for a pulse.the look in the great man's eyes saying it all.sadness mixed with anger.
.THE SOUND OF A HELICOPTER STARTING UP. CASPER LINDLEY The Cavaliers racing for the window.
The Cavaliers racing for the window.
BUCKAROO BANZAI PROF. HIKITA JOHN PARKER BUCKAROO BANZAI  We'll get it back. Buckaroo shoving Perfect Tommy aside, at the window himself now.
PROF. HIKITA JOHN PARKER BUCKAROO BANZAI  We'll get it back. Buckaroo shoving Perfect Tommy aside, at the window himself now.
JOHN PARKER BUCKAROO BANZAI  We'll get it back. Buckaroo shoving Perfect Tommy aside, at the window himself now.
BUCKAROO BANZAI  We'll get it back. Buckaroo shoving Perfect Tommy aside, at the window himself now.
We'll get it back. Buckaroo shoving Perfect Tommy aside, at the window himself now.
PRESIDENT WIDMARK SECRETARY OF DEFENSE We've never had a weapon like the Jet Car in the past, Mr. President. Light-weight, highly mobile, stick on some anti-tank missiles, a couple grenade launchers, hell, we could buy ourselves two hundred Jet Cars for the price of ten tanks, send 'em swarming all over Ivan like bumble bees, sir, right clear through their precious little Iron Curtain like it was Swiss cheese! They gotta be just scared shitless!
SECRETARY OF DEFENSE We've never had a weapon like the Jet Car in the past, Mr. President. Light-weight, highly mobile, stick on some anti-tank missiles, a couple grenade launchers, hell, we could buy ourselves two hundred Jet Cars for the price of ten tanks, send 'em swarming all over Ivan like bumble bees, sir, right clear through their precious little Iron Curtain like it was Swiss cheese! They gotta be just scared shitless!
SECREATRY OF DEFENSE submit his boys to at least a routine government security check, that Jet Car should be in the hands of Defense, and if they won't sell us the technology, then Mr. President, by God, sir, we have got to take it! In the national interest. The lighter in the Secretary's hand suddenly BEEPING, startling him and prompting the President to claim the gizmo and point it at.
BUCKAROO BANZAI ON TV PRESIDENT WIDMARK like out there in the real world? Secretary of Defense McKinley stepping around behind the bed, coming into Buckaroo's field of vision.
like out there in the real world? Secretary of Defense McKinley stepping around behind the bed, coming into Buckaroo's field of vision.
EXT. BUCKAROO'S BUS - NIGHT 304 On a highway somewhere near the Eastern seaboard, Buckaroo's bus speeds toward Yoyodyne.
that there are moving freely among us, vicious red aliens disguised as the owners and operators of Yoyodyne Propulsion Systems. .Perfect Tommy, Reno, even Casper Lindley, coming in and out of the picture, transforming themselves into a crack commando unit donning assault/chemical-warfare uniforms.little Scooter Lindley among them, too, doing like his dad.
camouflaged as human beings.and what they're really building, forget your Truncheon bomber, Mr. Secretary, is this enormous rocketship to escape back through the Eighth Dimension and then on to Planet 10.
corroborate everything I've said because he's from Planet 10 too.
JOHN PARKER ON TV Time is short, Mr. President. To prevent John Whorfin's escape, my comrades are at this moment taking up a geostationary position over New Jersey. This situation is explosive!
BUCKAROO BANZAI President. He's a black arachtoid.
President. He's a black arachtoid.
BUCKAROO BANZAI ON TV ready to exploit Soviet-American tensions and get us to blow each other off the face of the earth, sir, if necessary.
other pretty well, I think.
PROF. HIKITA NEW JERSEY our consciousness. Diabolical. We only see what they want us to see.
NEW JERSEY our consciousness. Diabolical. We only see what they want us to see.
our consciousness. Diabolical. We only see what they want us to see.
John Parker nearby, helping Reno synthesize more of Professor Hikita's ARACHTOIDAL ANTIDOTE and pour the liquid into GAS MASK FILTERS. SECRETARY OF DEFENSE McKINLEY STEPPING CLOSER INTO THE PICTURE.
Overthruster is in Penny Priddy's possession and she's been kidnapped and taken to Yoyodyne, further exacerbating the situation. We're on our way there right now.
The Secretary of Defense giving the President a sly 'I told you so' INT. WORLD WATCH ONE/BUS - NIGHT 314 Perfect Tommy coming over, interrupting.
INT. WALTER REED ARMY HOSPITAL - NIGHT 315 BUCKAROO BANZAI ON TV And his image fades.
The President picks up the phone.
some hard data on that cloud. We got any killer satellites over Jersey-
BUCKAROO BANZAI John Parker, tell them we're doing our best. Stall.
John Parker, tell them we're doing our best. Stall.
Buckaroo Banzai says patience is a virtue, Wing Commander, sir. Perfect Tommy interrupting again, holding yet another telephone.
BUCKAROO BANZAI INT. SPEED OPERATOR'S PULPIT  - NIGHT 318 Meanwhile in a grimy narrow control booth high above the factory floor, a terrified Penny Priddy sits BOUND and GAGGED, John O'Connor SPREADING THE CONTENTS FROM A HONEY-BEAR SQUEEZE BOTTLE over her naked arms while long trails of ORDINARY PICNIC ANTS make their way up her legs.John Bigboot looking on. Penny's UNOPENED big clear plastic purse on Doctor Lizardo's desk, the OVERTHRUSTER right under his nose and he doesn't even know it as he speaks into the phone handed to him by an ASSISTANT. BEGIN
INT. SPEED OPERATOR'S PULPIT  - NIGHT 318 Meanwhile in a grimy narrow control booth high above the factory floor, a terrified Penny Priddy sits BOUND and GAGGED, John O'Connor SPREADING THE CONTENTS FROM A HONEY-BEAR SQUEEZE BOTTLE over her naked arms while long trails of ORDINARY PICNIC ANTS make their way up her legs.John Bigboot looking on. Penny's UNOPENED big clear plastic purse on Doctor Lizardo's desk, the OVERTHRUSTER right under his nose and he doesn't even know it as he speaks into the phone handed to him by an ASSISTANT. BEGIN
flattered. We know the same people. In fact, one of them is here with me now.your associate, Doctor Penny Priddy.
DOCTOR LIZARDO miserable annals of the Earth, you will be duly enshrined! However.  .Miss Priddy claims to be unable to solve my problem. And provide the crucial missing circuit for my Overthruster. Perhaps you can convince her to try. Lizardo holding the phone toward Penny, ripping her gag off.
miserable annals of the Earth, you will be duly enshrined! However.  .Miss Priddy claims to be unable to solve my problem. And provide the crucial missing circuit for my Overthruster. Perhaps you can convince her to try. Lizardo holding the phone toward Penny, ripping her gag off.
BUCKAROO BANZAI Doctor Lizardo yanking the phone from Penny, remaining silent for a second to torture Buckaroo's soul.
Doctor Lizardo yanking the phone from Penny, remaining silent for a second to torture Buckaroo's soul.
DOCTOR LIZARDO place. Yoyodyne, Dr. Banzai. Come alone, with your Overthruster!  He'll bring it. I know his type. Penny glancing surreptitiously at her large transparent purse, THE
place. Yoyodyne, Dr. Banzai. Come alone, with your Overthruster!  He'll bring it. I know his type. Penny glancing surreptitiously at her large transparent purse, THE
Smiling smugly, Lizardo heads for the door, Penny squirming in her seat as the TINY ANTS dig in.
Well, you're not destroying me like you did my sister! Lizardo simply sneering at her as he goes out the door.
them like I have since yesterday, as arachtoidal creatures. They won't be pretty, nothing personal, John Parker. But just remember.if we fail tonight, there's no tomorrow.
Buckaroo nodding.THE CAVALIERS BREATING THEIR ANTIDOTE FILTERS,
That'll be my jobbuilt-in tracking device should make it relatively simple to locate.maybe hard to get.
figure this lighter out?
NATIONAL SECURITY MAN report all surveillance satellite communication jammed.
NATIONAL SECURITY MAN cause for alarm. Intelligence reports the Soviets are having the same PRESIDENT WIDMARK GENERAL CATBURD half-cocked, Mr. President. The President twisting around to glower at Catburd eating an orange, sitting near a table of flowers and fruit baskets.
GENERAL CATBURD half-cocked, Mr. President. The President twisting around to glower at Catburd eating an orange, sitting near a table of flowers and fruit baskets.
half-cocked, Mr. President. The President twisting around to glower at Catburd eating an orange, sitting near a table of flowers and fruit baskets.
Senator Cunningham pacing nervously.
it did to his brain.maybe scrambled his molecules. All I'm saying is, let's not panic here! I'm sure there's a rational explanation.
The National Security Advisor turning back to his telephone.or persons. I'm a soldier and I'm a damn good one, enough decorations to snap a Christmas tree, but I don't mind telling you, I'm sure I speak for everyone in this room when I say I am scared. I'm barely holding my fudge right now.
PRESIDENT WIDMARK  Forget we're the good guys and we'd never attack first. They think we're godless monsters just like them. Put yourself in their samovars.sitting in the dark without radar, bells ringing all over the damn Kremlin, little men in fedora hats getting out of Zils, coming into the Great Hall of the People. Now, do you think they're gonna listen to reason? I'll give Buckaroo his Planet 10 space cloud, but do you think they will?
Forget we're the good guys and we'd never attack first. They think we're godless monsters just like them. Put yourself in their samovars.sitting in the dark without radar, bells ringing all over the damn Kremlin, little men in fedora hats getting out of Zils, coming into the Great Hall of the People. Now, do you think they're gonna listen to reason? I'll give Buckaroo his Planet 10 space cloud, but do you think they will?
PRESIDENT WIDMARK GENERAL CATBURD primero.blast 'em off the face of the Earth before they lose their heads and do it to us first.
GENERAL CATBURD primero.blast 'em off the face of the Earth before they lose their heads and do it to us first.
primero.blast 'em off the face of the Earth before they lose their heads and do it to us first.
NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR INT. WALTER REED HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - NIGHT 326 An apple-cheeked Marine Lieutenant sits watching a television soap opera, only the sinister BLACK BRIEFCASE chained to his wrist setting him apart from missions of other viewers.General Catburd sticking his head out of the President's room.
.as an out-of-breath Mrs. Johnson rounds the corner on rollerskates, out-foxing SECRET SERVICE AGENTS and the rest of the President's entourage, cutting through, clutching the YELLOW RECORD.
EXT. RENDEZVOUS POINT - NIGHT 327 A dimly lighted parking lot not far from Yoyodyne. A KOLODNY BROS. PLUMBING VAN arrives, disgorging several tough BLUE SHIELDS as Buckaroo and Professor Hikita confer.the alien John Parker doing some highly unusual warm-up exercises on the tarmac.Reno telling the arriving Blue ShieldsPERFECT TOMMY NEW JERSEY BUCKAROO BANZAI not much for speeches, but things could get rough out there tonight. It's a fight we didn't ask for, but it's a fight we're stuck with and we all saw what happened to Rawhide. So if for any reason this is good-bye, I want you all to know that.well.that.you crazy lugs. Buckaroo finding it difficult to put into words what they all mean to him, the Cavaliers smiling, needling him.
NEW JERSEY BUCKAROO BANZAI not much for speeches, but things could get rough out there tonight. It's a fight we didn't ask for, but it's a fight we're stuck with and we all saw what happened to Rawhide. So if for any reason this is good-bye, I want you all to know that.well.that.you crazy lugs. Buckaroo finding it difficult to put into words what they all mean to him, the Cavaliers smiling, needling him.
BUCKAROO BANZAI not much for speeches, but things could get rough out there tonight. It's a fight we didn't ask for, but it's a fight we're stuck with and we all saw what happened to Rawhide. So if for any reason this is good-bye, I want you all to know that.well.that.you crazy lugs. Buckaroo finding it difficult to put into words what they all mean to him, the Cavaliers smiling, needling him.
not much for speeches, but things could get rough out there tonight. It's a fight we didn't ask for, but it's a fight we're stuck with and we all saw what happened to Rawhide. So if for any reason this is good-bye, I want you all to know that.well.that.you crazy lugs. Buckaroo finding it difficult to put into words what they all mean to him, the Cavaliers smiling, needling him.
The JET CAR racing up, skidding to a stop, Billy jumping out, the big engine still running.
Buckaroo embracing Professor Hikita, turning back to his men, pulling on his helmetBuckaroo tossing a quick Blue Shield salute, shutting himself into his speed machine.
President's National Security Advisor places a call on that ominous STRANGE PHONE, a palpable tension rising, urgency bordering on panic. .General Catburd and the young Marine lieutenant rummaging through a confusion of envelops in the BLACK BRIEFCASE.
Documents for your eyes only.John-Hancock these, and we got ourselves a knockout little force posture.
more so that future generations of. THE LIGHTS IN THE ROOM START TO BLINK ON AND OFF.silencing the Senator.Catburd handing the President a writing implement.pulling out a special writing tray from the bed.
earth can I even.have to stay awake, alert.that's my job. That's what the people put me here for.
must move! Escape or die!
the Eighth Dimension and free our trapped comrades! So we can return to our homeland and seize power once again! .Lizardo's followers extending their three-fingered hands in fascist salutes as he whips them into a feverish stateRED ARACHTOIDS DR. LIZARDO RED ARACHTOIDS Dr. Lizardo peers down at the hangar floor.
DR. LIZARDO RED ARACHTOIDS Dr. Lizardo peers down at the hangar floor.
RED ARACHTOIDS Dr. Lizardo peers down at the hangar floor.
Dr. Lizardo peers down at the hangar floor.
THEIR POV 341 An angry John Bigboot racing down the stairs toward the Jet Car.as over the PUBLIC ADDRESS BOOMSWHERE IS THE OVERTHRUSTER! BACK TOFor that seemingly flippant but honest answer, Buckaroo gets punched by John Bigboot.doubling him over.
brutal charge to your auditory meatus.
DR. LIZARDO about to be destroyed, and you're wasting time like this.
about to be destroyed, and you're wasting time like this.
CLOSE ON THE POLYGRAPH NEEDLE SUDDENLY JUMPING! 344 THE TOWER ZAPPING BUCKAROO, A FIERCE ELECTRIC SHOCK TOSSING HIM BACK AND FORTH LIKE A RAG DOLL. DOCTOR LIZARDO damned is your life! Lizardo pressing a button, administering a second SHOCK to Buckaroo, while an aide turns a dial, INCREASING THE VOLTAGE
damned is your life! Lizardo pressing a button, administering a second SHOCK to Buckaroo, while an aide turns a dial, INCREASING THE VOLTAGE
INT/EXT. PRESIDENT'S HELICOPTER - NIGHT 346 A VIEW OVER THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE'S SHOULDER as the chopper descends, lands in a parking lot where Buckaroo's bus sits guarded by Cavaliers and Blue Shields.THE CAMERA FOLLOWING the Secretary right out into it all.A CARPET CLEANING VAN ARRIVING, THREE MORE TOUGH BLUE
DOCTOR LIZARDO Lizardo indicates his favorite monitor.the INCOMPLETE OVERTHRUSTER equation flashing across its face.
Lizardo indicates his favorite monitor.the INCOMPLETE OVERTHRUSTER equation flashing across its face.
this equation. I must have the crucial missing circuit. CLOSE ON THE MONITOR.a riot of circuits and junctions. 348
DR. LIZARDO BUCKAROO BANZAI Buckaroo smiles at Lizardo's surprise, Lizardo signaling John Bigboot who turns on the voltage, ZAPPING Buckaroo!
BUCKAROO BANZAI Buckaroo smiles at Lizardo's surprise, Lizardo signaling John Bigboot who turns on the voltage, ZAPPING Buckaroo!
Buckaroo smiles at Lizardo's surprise, Lizardo signaling John Bigboot who turns on the voltage, ZAPPING Buckaroo!
SECREATARY OF DEFENSE .Scooter Lindley, wearing a gas mask, approaches the alien John Parker with a BLUE SHIELD BALLPOINT PEN and a piece of paper.
John Parker at first not understanding the nature of the request.looking at the ball-point pen, Scooter flipping the point for SCOOTER LINDLEY JOHN PARKER .the Secretary of Defense, NERVOUSLY CRACKING HIS KNUCKLES.moving up the aisle, suddenly screamingJOHN PARKER .the Secretary of Defense, NERVOUSLY CRACKING HIS KNUCKLES.moving up the aisle, suddenly screaming.the Secretary of Defense, NERVOUSLY CRACKING HIS KNUCKLES.moving up the aisle, suddenly screamingTen minutes more. Buckaroo's orders.
SECRETARY OF DEFENSE PERFECT TOMMY That answer alone enough to drive the Secretary up the wall.
That answer alone enough to drive the Secretary up the wall.
EXT. HIGHWAY NEAR YOYODYNE - NIGHT 353 The double bus leaping forward, heading down the long approach road to Yoyodyne.past a BILLBOARD touting the aerospace achievements of.YOYODYNE-AN EXCITING, GROWING COMPANY.JUST ONE MILE
Hey, so we get into action quicker this way. We tell Buckaroo our watches were fast. Ordinary citizen John Parker taking a step toward the Secretary, offering him a gas mask.the Secretary turning on him.
SECRETARY OF DEFENSE The Secretary pushing the astonished guards aside and picking up the telephone, the guards trying to stop him and in the process turning their backs on the bus as it SILENTLY CRUISES PAST THE GATE INTO
PERFECT TOMMY But John Parker entering a crawl space beneath the huge building.Chaparral Team having no choice, following.
But John Parker entering a crawl space beneath the huge building.Chaparral Team having no choice, following.
starting to whistle. A FORM suddenly dropping from the ceiling, landing on Perfect Tommy, a fierce struggle in the darkness.John Parker to the rescue, garroting a RED ARACHTOID, Perfect Tommy helping himself up.
JOHN PARKER PERFECT TOMMY INT. BIVOUAC ROOM - NIGHT 362 .John Parker leading the way again, up some unusual stairs.into the MAIN BIVOUAC ROOM, RED ARACHTOIDS apparently asleep in bizarre tents, others hanging from the ceiling like sloths, A STRANGE HEAVY HUMMING NOISE starting to fill the room.
PERFECT TOMMY INT. BIVOUAC ROOM - NIGHT 362 .John Parker leading the way again, up some unusual stairs.into the MAIN BIVOUAC ROOM, RED ARACHTOIDS apparently asleep in bizarre tents, others hanging from the ceiling like sloths, A STRANGE HEAVY HUMMING NOISE starting to fill the room.
INT. BIVOUAC ROOM - NIGHT 362 .John Parker leading the way again, up some unusual stairs.into the MAIN BIVOUAC ROOM, RED ARACHTOIDS apparently asleep in bizarre tents, others hanging from the ceiling like sloths, A STRANGE HEAVY HUMMING NOISE starting to fill the room.
John Parker breaking into a run for the far end of the room, Perfect Tommy and the others following, John Parker hitting the door.and AN ALARM GOES OFF.Perfect Tommy opening fire at a HUGE GENERATOR.THE
INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT 364 Buckaroo ducking into a recessed doorway, taking cover against a wall wet with strange algae as various ARACHTOID GUARDS scramble past, ALARM
Kill the girl! .Buckaroo losing sight of the swift arachtoid John Bigboot, resorting instead to his ELECTRONIC TRACKING DEVICE while.
SECRETARY OF DEFENSE JOHN BIGBOOT SECRETARY OF DEFENSE bomber? Look at this place.where's your pride? It's like a pigsty down here!
SECRETARY OF DEFENSE bomber? Look at this place.where's your pride? It's like a pigsty down here!
.BIZARRE LAMPS SWAYING as GUNFIRE upstairs prompts Bigboot to release the Secretary, to urge O'Connor to head for a door off the JOHN O'CONNOR JOHN BIGBOOT INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT 375 Bigboot and O'Connor emerging in the hallway.seen by Buckaroo Banzai and New Jersey as RED ARACHTOIDS.
JOHN BIGBOOT INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT 375 Bigboot and O'Connor emerging in the hallway.seen by Buckaroo Banzai and New Jersey as RED ARACHTOIDS.
INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT 375 Bigboot and O'Connor emerging in the hallway.seen by Buckaroo Banzai and New Jersey as RED ARACHTOIDS.
Buckaroo turning and just in time, the alien JOHN GOMEZ right behind him.and behind Gomez, John Parker and Perfect Tommy with flame .Buckaroo and New Jersey hitting the deck as the RED ARACHTOID gets smoked, the aliens John Bigboot and John O'Connor escaping in the INT. THE PIT - NIGHT 376 The Secretary of Defense still on the floor, spotting the OVERTHRUSTER in Penny's purse, taking it just as Buckaroo and New Jersey rush into the room.lights swaying.shadows dancing. .the Secretary struggling to his feet as Buckaroo cuts Penny down.spraying her with a white insecticide, New Jersey checking her vital signs, Buckaroo shocking New Jersey accidentally with a jolt of STATIC ELECTRICITY, as the Secretary slips the OVERTHRUSTER under his SECRETARY OF DEFENSE It's not over yet.I'll bounce back.always have. I'll come through this thing smelling like a goddamn rose-just watch me. The Secretary limping out of the room.New Jersey trying to get penny's pulse while Buckaroo peels back her eyelids.
BUCKAROO BANZAI Buckaroo looking at New Jersey, knowing he can trust him, rummaging through Penny's purse.no Overthruster.
Buckaroo looking at New Jersey, knowing he can trust him, rummaging through Penny's purse.no Overthruster.
JOHN BIGBOOT JOHN O'CONNOR Lizardo picking up a primitive INCOMPLETE OVERTHRUSTER THE SIZE OF AN
JOHN O'CONNOR Lizardo picking up a primitive INCOMPLETE OVERTHRUSTER THE SIZE OF AN
Lizardo picking up a primitive INCOMPLETE OVERTHRUSTER THE SIZE OF AN
INT. FLOODED CORRIDOR - NIGHT 378 Buckaroo joining the alien John Parker, the two of them tearing down one of the flooded passages.suddenly covering their ears from those
Dr. Lizardo pushing his own soldiers aside, scurrying into his SPACESHIP with John Bigboot and John O'CONNOR.
INT. LAUNCH HANGAR - DAWN 382 Meanwhile, the floor of the hangar.the alien John Parker using strange judo, the amazing Blue Shields fighting like Samurai, ducking STINGERS, FIREING into the enemy at point blank range.
JOHN PARKER INT. LIZARDO'S BIG SPACESHIP - DAWN 388 John Bigboot in the co-pilot's seat, as Doctor Lizardo attempts to connect his clumsy overthruster.
INT. LIZARDO'S BIG SPACESHIP - DAWN 388 John Bigboot in the co-pilot's seat, as Doctor Lizardo attempts to connect his clumsy overthruster.
JOHN BIGBOOT DOCTOR LIZARDO John O'Connor pushing John Bigboot aside as Lizardo hits another switch and for a fraction of a second ALL HELL BREAKS LOOSE, A BLINDING
DOCTOR LIZARDO John O'Connor pushing John Bigboot aside as Lizardo hits another switch and for a fraction of a second ALL HELL BREAKS LOOSE, A BLINDING
John O'Connor pushing John Bigboot aside as Lizardo hits another switch and for a fraction of a second ALL HELL BREAKS LOOSE, A BLINDING
INT. LAUNCH HANGAR - DAWN 389 The spacecraft lurches forward twelve feet! Stops.
INT. LAUNCH HANGAR - DAWN 391 .AS WITHOUT WARNING LIZARDO'S BIG SHIP LURCHES AGAIN LIKE A TETHERED ANGLE ON THE WALL PULSING! 392 INT. THERMOPOD - DAWN 393 BUCKAROO BANZAI INT. LIZARDO'S BIG SPACESHIP - DAWN 394 Dr. Lizardo, a raging madman in the cockpit, using a RADIO MIKEANGLE ON THE WALL PULSING! 392 INT. THERMOPOD - DAWN 393 BUCKAROO BANZAI INT. LIZARDO'S BIG SPACESHIP - DAWN 394 Dr. Lizardo, a raging madman in the cockpit, using a RADIO MIKEINT. LIZARDO'S BIG SPACESHIP - DAWN 394 Dr. Lizardo, a raging madman in the cockpit, using a RADIO MIKEJOHN BIGBOOT INT. THERMOPOD - DAWN 395 THE DOOR SLAMMING SHUT, TRAPPING THEM. JOHN PARKER BUCKAROO BANZAI INT. JET CAR/LAUNCH HANGAR - DAWN 396 Meanwhile, unnoticed, Secretary of Defense John McKinley reaches the JET CAR, starts to climb in.
INT. THERMOPOD - DAWN 395 THE DOOR SLAMMING SHUT, TRAPPING THEM. JOHN PARKER BUCKAROO BANZAI INT. JET CAR/LAUNCH HANGAR - DAWN 396 Meanwhile, unnoticed, Secretary of Defense John McKinley reaches the JET CAR, starts to climb in.
BUCKAROO BANZAI INT. JET CAR/LAUNCH HANGAR - DAWN 396 Meanwhile, unnoticed, Secretary of Defense John McKinley reaches the JET CAR, starts to climb in.
INT. JET CAR/LAUNCH HANGAR - DAWN 396 Meanwhile, unnoticed, Secretary of Defense John McKinley reaches the JET CAR, starts to climb in.
The Secretary turning, not seeing anyone at first.then little Scooter Lindley with an M-14 trained on him.
Scooter means business.as he suddenly demonstrates, blowing away an oncoming ARACHTOID before turning the gun back on the Secretary, who raises his hands.
SECRETARY OF DEFENSE Scooter taking the CURIOUS OBJECT from his prisoner, not fooled for a INT. LIZARDO'S BIG SPACESHIP - DAWN 397 AWFUL THUMPING VIBRARIONS as John O'Connor hits the Overthruster switch INT. LAUNCH HANGER - DAWN 398 THE HANGER WALL BEGINNING TO OOZE.GLOWING. INT. LIZARDO'S BIG SPACESHIP - DAWN 399 Dr. Lizardo and John O'Connor ecstatic.John Bigboot terrified.
JOHN WHORFIN JOHN BIGTOOTE WHORFIN'S ARM ELONGATING, FLASHING OUT, breaking John Bigboot's neck! John O'Connor moving up a notch at Yoyodyne.
JOHN BIGTOOTE WHORFIN'S ARM ELONGATING, FLASHING OUT, breaking John Bigboot's neck! John O'Connor moving up a notch at Yoyodyne.
WHORFIN'S ARM ELONGATING, FLASHING OUT, breaking John Bigboot's neck! John O'Connor moving up a notch at Yoyodyne.
floor rushing up as.
JOHN PARKER BUCKAROO BANZAI John Parker talking to the father ship as Buckaroo struggles to unlock the strange little saucer from Whorfin's big vehicle.
BUCKAROO BANZAI John Parker talking to the father ship as Buckaroo struggles to unlock the strange little saucer from Whorfin's big vehicle.
John Parker talking to the father ship as Buckaroo struggles to unlock the strange little saucer from Whorfin's big vehicle.
JOHN PARKER John Parker trying a likely button.
John Parker trying a likely button.
EXT. THERMOPOD - DAWN 421 The little ship dropping like a stone, barely avoiding a head-on with Whorfin and company!
INT. WHORFIN'S BIG SPACESHIP - DAWN 423 John Whorfin and John O'Connor scrambling into evasive action, but it's too late.
INT. THERMOPOD - DAWN 426 FLYING ON A COLLISION COURSE once again, THE OVERTHRUSTER BEAM FINALLY HITTING HOME AND THE BIG SPACESHIP DISINTEGRATING, VAPORIZING.John Whorfin and his ilk history.
JOHN PARKER BUCKAROO BANZAI EXT. YOYODYNE - DAWN 428 As the Cavaliers and Blue Shields anxiously watch, THE SKY CRACKLES AND
BUCKAROO BANZAI EXT. YOYODYNE - DAWN 428 As the Cavaliers and Blue Shields anxiously watch, THE SKY CRACKLES AND
EXT. YOYODYNE - DAWN 428 As the Cavaliers and Blue Shields anxiously watch, THE SKY CRACKLES AND
Now it's the young Doctor Lizardo's turn to stare incredulously.
The two scientists approaching one another.afraid to touch as if the other might prove a mirage.
PERFECT TOMMY if you want my opinion. Perfect Tommy and Reno pacing Buckaroo.
if you want my opinion. Perfect Tommy and Reno pacing Buckaroo.
illegal aliens, the way I figure, been here forty years, you could throw the book at 'em.
illegal aliens, the way I figure, been here forty years, you could throw the book at 'em.
to the Eighth Dimension as soon as we find the Overthruster. It wasn't in Penny's purse.so if we have to run this joint upside down and inside out. Perfect Tommy whistling.
Scooter's eyes lighting up as he runs over.
The Oscillation Overthruster, safe and sound. Buckaroo amazed, receiving the precious object, giving Scooter a Blue Shield salute.the Secretary of Defense watching jealously from a short distance, his clothing disheveled.
SCOOTER LINDLEY  I'll have to ask my dad.
I'll have to ask my dad.
Scooter running off.
Buckaroo racing past new Jersey and into the bus.
Buckaroo going into his PRIVATE REAR SECTION of the bus.
.shaking her, exhorting her.
.but nothing, no more signs of life.
CRACKLING GOOD as the tiny bedroom heats up and we do the decent thing.IRIS OUT.as CREDITS ROLL and the FANTASTIC VOICE OF Dr. Buckaroo Banzai serenades us home. .the Hong Kong Cavaliers harmonizing like honey, the world once again a safe, snug harbor.
Buckaroo Banzai Shooting Script - 3rd Draft Page 98 Across The Eighth Dimension WritersStill-life tableaus. Lawford, N.H., a town of fifty buildings on a glacial ridge, neither mountain nor plateau. Developed as 1880's forestland, discarded in the Depression. Winter has set in. Halloween day. Snowy fields yield to overcast skiesStill-life tableaus. Lawford, N.H., a town of fifty buildings on a glacial ridge, neither mountain nor plateau. Developed as 1880's forestland, discarded in the Depression. Winter has set in. Halloween day. Snowy fields yield to overcast skiesINT./EXT. POLICE CAR - NIGHT WADE WHITEHOUSE, driving, sits beside JILL, his daughter, ten years-old, wearing a black-and-yellow tiger plastic mask.
I'm sorry for the screw-up. But I couldn't help it it's too late to go trick-or-treating now. I couldn't help it I had to stop at Penny's for the costume. And you were hungry, Who's fault is it then if it's not yours? You're the one in charge, Look. Those kids are still trick-or- treating. They're still out.
Who's fault is it then if it's not yours? You're the one in charge, Look. Those kids are still trick-or- treating. They're still out.
Look. Those kids are still trick-or- treating. They're still out.
Look. Those kids are still trick-or- treating. They're still out.
Those are the Hoyts.
I don't care. They're out.
Can't you see. look out there. Nobody's got their porch lights on anymore. It's too late. Those Hoyt kids are just out to get in trouble. See, they put shaving cream all over that mailbox there. They chopped down Herb Crane's new bushes. Little bastards. Jesus H. Christ.
Why do they do that?
Do what?
You know.
Break stuff?
Yeah. It's stupid.
I guess they're stupid.
Did you do that when you were a kid?
Well, yeah. Sort of. Nothing really mean. Me and my pals, me and my brothers. It was kind of funny then. Stealing pumpkins, soaping windows. Stuff like that.
Was it funny?
To us it was.
But it's not funny now.
It's not funny now. I'm a cop and I gotta listen to all the complaints people make. I'm not a kid anymore. You change.
I bet you did lots of bad things.
What are you talking about?
I just think you used to be bad.
No. I didn't used to be bad. No sir. Where do you get this stuff? From your mother?
No. She doesn't talk about you
We're looking for the funniest costume! And the scariest! And the most imaginative! And the best costume of all!
Got here just in time. Go ahead. Jump in line. Maybe you'll win a
Go on, Jill. Some of those kids you still know.
I don't want to.
Why? Why not? You know these kids from when you went to school here. It hasn't been that long.
It's not that.
What then?
It's stupid.
It's fun.
I want to go home.  I don't like it here.
Oh, Jesus, come on, will you? Don't mess this up anymore than it's already been messed up. Join the other kids. Do that and before you know it you'll be as happy as a goddamned clam. Wade! And who's that tiger? Is that Jill? Come and join us.
Wade! And who's that tiger? Is that Jill? Come and join us.
What are you boys up to?
Same old shit.
You see the damage these little sons- of bitches been raising tonight?
You're going to have to move your I know.
I know.
Take a bite.
Don't mind if I do.
LaRiviere's having a hell of a time in there. Master of fucking Where's that gun you were bragging on today?
Where's that gun you were bragging on today?
No brag. Just fact.
Got you for 450, 500 bucks? 
See you got Jill tonight. How'd you manage that?
See you got Jill tonight. How'd you manage that?
Don't forget to move your truck. 
Some party, huh? Sorry I lost sight of you. I had to step outside for a smoke. You find anybody you know here? There must be some kids you used to know from school. You want to go tomorrow? See your old teachers? Be more fun than hanging out with me all day.
No what?
No what?
No I didn't see anybody I know. No I don't want to go to school here tomorrow. I want to go home.
You are home. There are lots of kids you still know here.
I don't want to be here. Don't worry, I love you, Daddy, I do. But I want to go home.
Jesus. Listen, Jill, tell you what. Tomorrow morning, you still want to go home, I'll drive you down. I'll get off work or something.
I called Mommy.
What? You called Mommy? Just now?
Jesus, why?
Jesus, why?
I. because I want to go home. She said she'd come and get me.
Come and get you! Shit! It's a damn half hour drive each way. Why didn't you talk to me about it first?
See, I knew you'd be mad.
Yeah. Yeah, right, I'm mad. What'd you tell her, for Christ sake?
I told her I wanted to come home. Daddy, don't be mad at me.
Well, I guess I am. I planned this, I planned all this, you know. I mean, it's sort of pathetic, but I planned it. You shouldn't have called your C'mon, we're gonna call her before she leaves.
She's gone already! Gone already! Couldn't wait.
That's all you got to say? "Yes".
That's all you got to say? "Yes".
She won't be here for a half hour. Think you can stand it that long?
She won't be here for a half hour. Think you can stand it that long?
Where do you expect to wait for her? Obviously downstairs with the other kids isn't good enough.
Where do you expect to wait for her? Obviously downstairs with the other kids isn't good enough.
Sit right there by yourself if you want. Wait for her by yourself. That's fine with me. Just dandy. I'm going That's fine with me too. When Mommy comes, tell her I'm up here.
That's fine with me too. When Mommy comes, tell her I'm up here.
I thought I told you to move that Relax, Chief. We're leaving. You wanna toke?
Relax, Chief. We're leaving. You wanna toke?
You gotta be more careful about that shit. Gordon or one of those guys sees you smoking that wacky tabacky around me they'll expect me to bust you. And I'll be outta a job.
Some job. Here, have a hit. Don't be such a hardass. I know you got problems, but everybody's got
Not here.
Well, c'mon, then. Get in and we'll take a little ride, my man.
Got a job first thing in the morning, first day of season. Saturday I'll hunt for myself. Twombley something. - Evan. He's a mucky-muck union official from Massachusetts. You're lucky.
Evan. He's a mucky-muck union official from Massachusetts. You're lucky.
Don't know about lucky. The guy's a full-blown asshole. Pay's good, though. $100 a day. I got to guarantee a kill, of course. Which I can do. There's some monster bucks hiding out up there.
How'd you get the job?
Gordon, he's always got some angle working. He wants to keep Twombley happy, I'm his boy.
What's wrong with you?
You should get close to him. Make yourself irreplaceable. Guy's loaded.
Like you and Gordon?
Right. The sonofabitch couldn't get along without me.
Yeah, he'd go broke tomorrow if you quit him.

Bastard's got his high beams on.
My ex-wife Lillian and her husband. That was them in the Audi that just passed us.
My ex-wife Lillian and her husband. That was them in the Audi that just passed us.
My ex-wife Lillian and her husband. That was them in the Audi that just passed us.
Audi's a good car.
What's she up here for?
Aw, shit, she's here to get Jill. Me and Jill had a little argument. Jack, I got to get back, get back to town. Move this thing, will you? See if you can get back to the Town Hall before they get there, okay?
Piece of fucking cake.
Where's Jill?
Where's Jill?
Me and Jill, we just had a little spat. She felt kind of left out, I guess, from not knowing some of the new kids
Where is she now? Is she in the truck with your friends?
She told me she wanted to wait for you. Inside.
While you went off for a few beers with your friends? Is that Hettie Rodgers there, with whatzizname?
She's grown up some, hasn't she?
She's grown up some, hasn't she?
Oh, Jesus, lay off, will you? It looks like you've won this fucking round already, so lay off a little, for Christ's sake. Horner! Leave her be. This's got nothing to do with you, so just act like the chauffeur. Got it?
Horner! Leave her be. This's got nothing to do with you, so just act like the chauffeur. Got it?
Wade. Nobody wants any trouble.
I don't want her to go, Lillian.
Don't cause a scene. No one's trying to win any 'rounds'. Don't make it any worse.
I'm not making it any worse. You are. Me and Jill could've worked this thing out. It's normal, it's even normal for me to get a little touchy about it. Believe it or not. How do you think this makes me look, treating her like some tragic victim or something? Just wait till we're through,
Just wait till we're through,
Don't you say a word. I didn't hit him. I'm not going to hit anybody. New hat? Jill's up, I see.
New hat? Jill's up, I see.
For a while.
How's she doing?
Okay. She's fine.
You two want to do anything tomorrow and need a third party, give me a call, okay? I'm off.
Like hell you are. Tomorrow's first day of deer season. I'll need you at least in the morning.
Well, that's that.
Take care, Wade.
You be careful of that little bastard. He's dying to get in your pants, you Don't worry. I can protect my virtue. I mean, c'mon, Wade, give me a break.
Don't worry. I can protect my virtue. I mean, c'mon, Wade, give me a break.
See you tomorrow, maybe.
You okay?
Wade, lost in thought, continues toward Town Hall. At the door, LaRiviere, one of the last to leave, eyes him. Wade tosses Horner's hat inside.
Tomorrow, Gordon.
Watch this snow. It's coming down
Lugene? Wade. Hoya doin?  Look, I was wondering, with the snow and all, if you got school today?  How the hell do I know? You're the principal. All I'm supposed to do is direct traffic from 7It's not enough snow, not for tracking the bastards. No advantage there, Don't worry, Mr. Twombley, I know where those suckers are. Rain or shine, snow or no snow. I know deer. We'll kill us a buck today. Guaranteed. Before ten.
Don't worry, Mr. Twombley, I know where those suckers are. Rain or shine, snow or no snow. I know deer. We'll kill us a buck today. Guaranteed. Before ten.
Guaranteed, eh?
Yep. Right about now the does are holing up in the brush piles. The bucks are right behind them and we're right behind the bucks. This gun gets fired before ten o'clock. Whether it kills a deer or not is more less up to you. I'll put you inside 30, 35 yards of a buck the first four hours of the season. That's what you're paying me for, ain't it?
Damn straight!
Done much shooting with that rifle Tell you what. You get me close to a big buck by ten, kid, there's another hundred bucks in it.
Tell you what. You get me close to a big buck by ten, kid, there's another hundred bucks in it.
If you get it?
You might not kill it.
You might not kill it.
You think so.
You might gut-shoot it or cripple it for somebody else to find and tag. Can't guarantee that won't happen, especially with a new gun. I may have to shoot it.
You take care of your end, kid, I'll take care of mine.
You understand what I'm saying? I want a deer, a dead one, not a cripple or whatthefuck.
You understand what I'm saying? I want a deer, a dead one, not a cripple or whatthefuck.
I get it. No sweat. You'll get yourself a deer and you'll get him dead. And you'll have him by coffee time.
And you'll get your extra hundred

Are you okay, Wade? What was wrong? Why were you holding everyone up?
Did you see that sonofabitch in the BMW? He could've killed somebody.
Did you get his number?
I know who it is.
Good. Who?
Mel Gordon.
I still don't understand
From Boston. Evan Twombley's son-in- law he was driving. I know where they're headed. Up the lake, Agaway. The old man's out deer hunting with Jack Hewitt, so they probably got some big weekend party planned.
Safety on?
I'm okay.
Follow close. We'll cross the next
I used to play ball.
Drafted by the Red Sox.
Drafted by the Red Sox.
You played for the Sox?
Double A. New Britain.
Pitcher. "Best ballplayer to come out of New Hampshire since Carlton They said.
Pitcher. "Best ballplayer to come out of New Hampshire since Carlton They said.
They said.
They said.
The only difference between me and that Clemens on TV is luck, shit What happened?
The only difference between me and that Clemens on TV is luck, shit What happened?
What happened?
Ruined my arm. Brought me along too fast. Why'd it have to be my fucking arm, I used to think. Then I realized it had to be somebody's fucking arm.
Hey, Hewitt! Slow the fuck down! Safety on?
Safety on?
This way.
This way.
Sun's gettin high.
Deers have ears too.
Told you the snow was coming down. Take the grader.
Where's the plow?
Jimmy took it. Jack's out hunting with Evan Twombley.
His son-in-law damn near killed me.
At the school crossing. In his BMW. Coulda hurt some kids. I'm gonna bust his ass.
At the school crossing. In his BMW. Coulda hurt some kids. I'm gonna bust his ass.
Don't go playing policeman.
What am I a security guard? You hired me, you and your Selectman You don't want the extra police pay?
You don't want the extra police pay?
I'm not saying that.
Get the grader. Go out 29 past Toby's. Don't let Lillian get to you. She didn't belong here. That's why she Fuck you.
Fuck you.
That's what I love about a small town. You know everybody.
Stay here, stand where I am.
Fresh tracks. Deer shit. Big one. Here's your buck, Mr. Twombley. I'll circle around.
You only got a little while if you want your hundred bucks.
How's it goin?
Cold. How you think?
Sorry about that. Why's it every year, come first snow, you get stuck with the grader?
School. Traffic crossing. I gotta quit these things.
What we doing after? Wells? Don't work too fast. Business the way it is, Gordon's probably looking to lay me off earlier than usual this year. He's got too much money as it is. Why's it always the little guy that gets kicked in the butt in hard times?
.That was no pisser. I'll tell you who was a pisser. Glen Whitehouse. There was a real pisser. He was mean normal, but when he drank it was like he burst on fire. Canadian Club. Always drank CC. One Christmas there's this cord of wood out back he forgot about and he decides to have his two boys stack it. Except it's been out back two months and it's snowed and rained and froze so now the wood's all iced in. He takes the boys. He was drunk, of course.
Move it! Daylight in the swamps!
Pop, the kids are waiting for us.
A lesson in work and its rewards. You'll thank me for this one day.  Sally, turn off that TV!
A lesson in work and its rewards. You'll thank me for this one day. Sally, turn off that TV!
Just do it.
Please, Pop. Let's go back.
Please, Pop. Let's go back.
What are you, a quitter?
Beats me. That's all I heard. Wade would know more about it. Wade! We were just talking about your Old Man. "What are you, a
Jesus, LaCoy, you got nothing better to do than sit around and tell stories. Pity is, some college student will come some day and believe this shit cause you're the only one dumb enough to talk to him. Take care.
That was some job.
We'll work at it everyday, promise.
I think we made the point.
You just needed a drink.
What was that? You got something to say, say it! Say it!
You no-good pup!
You no-good pup!
It don't look right.
The sign. It looks like it's spelled wrong or something.
The sign. It looks like it's spelled wrong or something.
Fuck. Wade Whitehouse. It's people like you that keep this fucking town from prospering. Whatever somebody does to improve things around here, you gotta find fault with it.
I'm not finding fault. It's a good idea, good for you, good for the town. Real modern too.
This town sucks.
Aw, c'mon, I was only saying there's something wrong with "Home Made Cooking", that's all. The sign's fine. What it says is wrong.
Who needs it? Everybody who comes here has been coming for years so what they need a sign for?
You okay?
I'm sorry about what I said.
I'm sorry about what I said.
Said what?
About you and Jill and needing a third person. She went back to Forget it.
Forget it.
I'm sorry.
I'm going to start one of those custody suits. I don't give a fucking shit. You know?
You don't mean that.
Yeah. I mean that.
No you don't. You're pissed, that's all. You ought to cool off for a few days then have a long talk with Lillian. You know? Work it out with her, tell her how you feel. Lillian's not out to get you.
The hell she isn't. Lillian's been trying to nail me to a cross since the day I met her. I'm gonna hire me a fucking lawyer from Concord and get this thing, this divorce thing, rearranged. I've been thinking about it a lot. It's like she owns Jill or something. Nobody owns nobody, especially not kids. And I pay her.
That goddamned woman. Thinks she can cart Jill off and leave me alone like this. I'm more than pissed, Margie. I'm a whole lot more than pissed. I been that plenty and I know the difference. This is Marg! You got orders!
That goddamned woman. Thinks she can cart Jill off and leave me alone like this. I'm more than pissed, Margie. I'm a whole lot more than pissed. I been that plenty and I know the difference. This is Marg! You got orders!
Marg! You got orders!
Call me.
Tonight. Let's get together.
Wade meets Nick halfway to the door.
You talked to Jack?
Not since last night. He took a guy The fucker shot himself. Ker-bang! That's what it sounds like. Not on purpose. I assume accidental.
The fucker shot himself. Ker-bang! That's what it sounds like. Not on purpose. I assume accidental.
The other guy.
The other guy.
Where. how'd you hear that?
CB. Little while ago. One of the boys on the way in picked up Jack on the CB calling for state troopers. I figured you'd know what really happened. The fucking guy kill himself? This Twombley, who the fuck is he, anyhow?
No, I. I've been out on the grader all morning. Twombley's summer people. Massachusetts. Friend of Gordon's. It was his idea for Jack to take him I gotta go.
He don't care for you.
Stop being jealous.
What's the hurry?
A hunting accident. Jack and Twombley.
I figured you already heard.
I figured you already heard.
Twombley, Jesus. We got to get movingFuck. Turn it off. All you heard was there was some kinda accident?
Twombley's shot. I heard that. Not Jack. He's okay, I assume.
Fuck. You don't know how bad or You mean Twombley?
You mean Twombley?
Yes, Wade, I mean Twombley. Put out that cigarette. Fuck. Fuck. Fuck. He more than likely just shot himself in the foot or something. That's what usually happens.
He more than likely just shot himself in the foot or something. That's what usually happens.
I shoulda sent you instead of Jack.
I wish you had. I'd rather be deer hunting instead of freezing my ass on that fucking grader.
You ain't the hunter Jack is. And he can't drive the grader worth shit.
Like hell.
That must've been Twombley. Jesus. I bet that was Twombley.
You want me to follow them to Let's get to the top and talk to Jack first. He'll know what happened. He fucking better. If this coulda been avoided, I'll put that kid's ass in a sling.
Let's get to the top and talk to Jack first. He'll know what happened. He fucking better. If this coulda been avoided, I'll put that kid's ass in a sling.
You heard the news.
I hear Twombley got shot.
Wade walks over to trooper ASA BROWN, pets the shepherd.
Watch the dog, Wade. Takes a mind to, he'll tear your fucking head Thirty-thirty at close range.
Thirty-thirty at close range.
Thirty-thirty at close range.
Will he make it?
Will he make it?
D.O.A. Blew the bastard wide open. Had a hole in back you could put your head into. Pretty big hole in front too. You could've put your fist into that one.
You see it?
Nope. Heard it. We wasn't far apart. I spotted this buck, then I heard the gun go off and Twombley was gone. I looked over the little cliff we was using for a stand and there the fucker was, deader'n shit. Called it right in.
This is gonna be one fucking mess to clean up. Twombley's son-in-law and daughter are up the weekend. Didn't you say you'd seen him, Wade?
I seen 'em. Near ran me over.
You wanna tell 'em, Gordon? You knew the old man.
What the fuck. My day's already Give me the keys. You can go back with Jack. You still got a shitload of plowing to do.
It ain't done, if that's what you Something bugging you?
Something bugging you?
Yeah. A few things.
Well, right now we're not too interested. Finish up what you gotta do, then you can get bugged on your own time.
Might as well take the rest of the day off. You look sort of fucked up. You've been paid for the day, anyhow, Not exactly. I mean, he never paid You'll get your money. Don't talk to any newspapers about this. Twombley's a big deal down in Massachusetts, you know. Tell them your lawyer says you shouldn't comment.
Not exactly. I mean, he never paid You'll get your money. Don't talk to any newspapers about this. Twombley's a big deal down in Massachusetts, you know. Tell them your lawyer says you shouldn't comment.
You'll get your money. Don't talk to any newspapers about this. Twombley's a big deal down in Massachusetts, you know. Tell them your lawyer says you shouldn't comment.
Lawyer? I don't need no lawyer, do
No, of course not. Just say it, that's
No, of course not. Just say it, that's
Where'd Twombley get shot?
In the chest.
No, I mean whereabouts.
A half mile in, along the old lumber You bring him up yourself? That's a steep climb.
You bring him up yourself? That's a steep climb.
The ambulance guys lugged him up.
You stayed away?
Where'd you get the blood?
Where'd you get the blood?
What blood?
On your sleeve.
Musta. How'd I know? What're you doing, playing cop?
I gotta make a report to Fish and Game. I was just wondering, that's all. What'd he do, to shoot himself, I mean?
Who the fuck knows? Musta slipped or something. I just heard the gun go I never seen a man shot before. Not even in the service. Must be Well, I didn't actually see him do it. Like I said.
I never seen a man shot before. Not even in the service. Must be Well, I didn't actually see him do it. Like I said.
Well, I didn't actually see him do it. Like I said.
Sure you did.
Saw him do it?
Saw him do it?
What the fuck you telling me, Wade? I never seen the guy get shot, I told you that.
You musta seen him get shot. I know you did.
Let's get the fuck outta here. You're not making any sense, man.
There's your old twenty-gauge, and that there's the new Browning you was showing me last night. This must be Twombley's gun. Brand new. Very fancy tooling. Probably fired one time. It's a beautiful piece of work. But what the hell, Jack, I guess you deserve it. Right's right.
Twombley sure as hell won't be shooting it again.
Twombley sure as hell won't be shooting it again.
He sure as hell won't.
ROLFE  ROLFE 
Yeah, brother, look, I was calling cause has there been anything on TV in Boston about a hunting accident with a guy named Twombley, Evan There was something. It happened up your way.
Yeah, I know him the kid that was with him. Maybe you do too. Jack Hewitt. He works for LaRiviere with me. He's my best friend.
No, not tonight. I'm in bed too. I'm calling because I need you to listen. You're supposed to be a smart guy. You're a professor. I got this theory. Jack says he didn't see Twombley shot but he did.
It'll come out Jack lied and the kid'll get hung for it.
ROLFE 
No shit.
Well, it was an accident.
Lillian was here. In Lawford.
The night before the shooting.
Picked up Jill. She was supposed to visit for the weekend for Halloween. She wanted to go home.
Jill. I was thinking of getting a lawyer. Maybe you can help me.
A divorce lawyer. A custody lawyer. You know, 'cause of Jill.
Yeah, I guess.
I get to feeling like a whipped dog some days, Rolfe, and some night I'm going to bite back. I swear it.
No, no, I haven't. Not really. I've growled a little, but I haven't bit.
Who are you?
I was. I'm Wade Whitehouse. I was wondering, is your husband here?
He's asleep. We were up very late.
Well, yes, I'm. I want to say that I'm real sorry about your father, Mrs. Twombley.
Mrs. Gordon. Thank you.
Well, yeah, I suppose. Sure. I just had a little business to settle with Mr. Gordon. I'm the local police Something about my father?
Something about my father?
Oh, no. No, it's a. it's a traffic thing. No big deal.
Can't it wait, then?
Whitehouse. Next time, phone ahead.
How's that?
I said, 'Next time, phone ahead.'
Jesus Christ. Mr. Gordon, when I come all the way to serve somebody a summons, I don't call ahead for an What the hell are you talking about?
What the hell are you talking about?
I'm issuing you a ticket. Moving Moving violation! I just got out of bed and you're telling me you're giving me a goddamn speeding ticket? Now? Are you nuts? Is that it, Whitehouse? You're nuts?
Moving violation! I just got out of bed and you're telling me you're giving me a goddamn speeding ticket? Now? Are you nuts? Is that it, Whitehouse? You're nuts?
Yesterday morning, you passed a stopped school bus, which was flashing its lights, then you
Hold on!
Don't ever put your hands on me, Mr. You're talking about a goddamned ticket, from when I passed you at the school where you were deciding to hold up traffic while dreaming of becoming a traffic cop or something?
You're talking about a goddamned ticket, from when I passed you at the school where you were deciding to hold up traffic while dreaming of becoming a traffic cop or something?
Don't give me a hard time, Mr. Gordon. I'm just
Doing your fucking job. I know. I watch television too.
Yes. Here's your ticket.
You get the hell out of my house now, asshole. And know this you are going to be a lucky asshole if I haven't got you fired before the day is out. I can do it with one phone call, and I'm pissed enough to do it
Jack's sort of sensitive, I guess. More than most. But he'll be okay in a few weeks.
There's something funny about that shooting. There's lots funny about it, actually.
I heard he was drunk at Toby's last night and got in a fight with Hettie. He drove off without her.
I'm sure, I'm positive it didn't happen the way Jack says it did.
.Jack's turned into one of those men who are permanently angry. He used to be a sweet kid, but it's like, when he found out he couldn't play ball anymore, he changed. Now he's like everyone else.
I've been wondering if maybe Jack shot Twombley, instead of Twombley shooting himself. I've been wondering maybe Jack shot him on purpose.
Wade! How can you even think such a thing? Why would Jack Hewitt do that, shoot Twombley on purpose?
Jack doesn't need money.
Jack doesn't need money.
Everybody needs money. Except guys like Twombley and that sonofabitch son-in-law of his. People like that.
Jack wouldn't kill for it. Besides, who would pay him?
Lots of people. Guy like Evan Twombley, Boston union official, probably got lots of people want to see him dead. The Government's been investigating his links with the The Mafia hire Jack Hewitt?
The Mafia hire Jack Hewitt?
No, I just know Jack's lying about what happened. He just seemed I know that kid, what he's like inside. He's a lot like I was at his age.
You wouldn't have done anything like that, shot someone for money.
No. Not for money. But, if somebody'd given me half a damned excuse I was pretty fucked up, you know.
But not now.
When you gonna get that tooth fixed?
I can see what you looked like as a You knew me as a kid.
You knew me as a kid.
Yeah, but never what you looked like. Not really. Never really studied your face, like now. I was never able to see you as a kid when you were a kid until now, this way.
What way?
After making love. I like it. It's nice to see that in a grown-up person.
It's nice.
Don't you think, do you still think it's a good idea to press this custody thing just now?
I'm her father supposed to be, but I'm not able to. Yes. Yes, I am. It may be the only thing in my life I've been so clear about wanting. Even if it takes a big fight.
Then. I guess you have to.
There's another thing I've been thinking about. I don't know how you feel about the idea, Margie, because we've never talked about it. But I've been thinking lately, I've been thinking we should get married sometime. You and me.
Oh, Wade.
I've been thinking about it, that's You've been married twice
You've been married twice
It was to the same woman. I was just a kid. It's not like a marriage proposal or anything, just a thought. Something for you and me to talk about and think about. You know?
Alright. I'll think about it.
He kisses her. His jaw winces in pain.
I've got sons, Goddamnit, oh my God, have I got sons! Wade? Rolfe? Elbourne? You love me boys? Do you love your Pop? Of course you do!
Glen, stop
Oh, Jesus, Sally, you are such a Goddamned good person! Capital G. You are so much better than I am, I who am no good at all, you who are a truly good person, like a fucking saint! Beyond fucking com-pare.
My big boy bursting out of the seams of his jeans!
You little prick!
You little prick!
Glen, stop!
Did you tell them? That we were coming?
Don't you think it's proper for a fella to introduce his girl to his I know your parents.
I know your parents.
I just want to pick up my divorce papers. For the lawyer. It won't take long.
Are you sure they're home? Did you The truck's here. Looks like they've stayed inside since the snow started.
The truck's here. Looks like they've stayed inside since the snow started.
Think they're alright?
Think they're alright?
Of course! I would've heard.
I don't know for Christ's sake!
I don't know for Christ's sake!
Pop, Pop, you okay? Jesus, Pop, how can you stand the cold, dressed like that? Where's Ma?
Jesus, Pop, how can you stand the cold, dressed like that? Where's Ma?
You remember Margie Fogg?
You remember Margie Fogg?
From Wickham's. Been a while. Like some coffee?
How you and Ma doing? Haven't seen you in town for a while.
We're alright. Your Ma's sleeping. You want me to get her?
Pop goes to the bedroom.
Jesus. Nothing's changed around here.
Where's Ma?
She's coming.
Have you been heating the house? Not just with the stove.
There's a furnace.
You're not using it today?
It's broke I guess. There's an electric in the bedroom.
Maybe Wade should take a look at it. Your pipes'll freeze. Wade, would you do that?
Ma? It's Wade. Can I come in?
Oh, Lord.
Coffee's perked.
When did she die?
Is.? She's dead then?
I checked on her. She had the electric heater. Cold don't bother her as much as me. Which is why I give her the heater.
I checked on her. She had the electric heater. Cold don't bother her as much as me. Which is why I give her the heater.
Is there something wrong with the In the living room.
In the living room.
Why didn't you call and have the furnace fixed?
Wade. I thought she was alright. Till this morning she was.
It makes me sad.
Can ?
Makes me sad it was her. Instead of me. I shoulda froze.
Shouldn't we get this show on the road, now that Rolfe's here?
Pointless to stand around in church with nothing to do, I guess.
What about Jill? Is Lillian bringing
They'll be at the church and the
Anyone else want one? Rolfe?
No thanks. I don't drink.
Yeah. I forgot.
How you holding up, Wade?
I'm fine, fine.
You Rolfe? I remember you from high school. You're a teacher now? Harvard?
I haven't seen you around. I don't suppose there's much reason for you to come this way.
I haven't seen you around. I don't suppose there's much reason for you to come this way.
Come, Glen, join us. Let's kneel for a moment of prayer before the service. Wade? Rolfe?
Wade, expressionless, looks at Rolfe. Rolfe, embarrassed, trying to do the right thing, helps his father kneel beside Rev. Doughty. The others join the circle.
This is nuts.
Dear Heavenly Father, Lord of Hosts, we come to Thee to beseech Thy blessings and commend to You the soul of our beloved wife and mother, Sally Whitehouse, to be one with You and walk with You
Dear Heavenly Father, Lord of Hosts, we come to Thee to beseech Thy blessings and commend to You the soul of our beloved wife and mother, Sally Whitehouse, to be one with You and walk with You
.goddamned hair on her head.
Not a one of you is worth a goddamned hair on that good woman's head!
Pop! Don't do this now, Pop.
Maybe I'll head on over to the church.
This is a difficult time.
Listen, it's no big deal, Pop.
Come on, smart guy. Tell how it's no big deal. Tell me how a single one of you is worth a single hair on that woman's head.
Give up this demon.
Go fuck yourself!
Wade, just leave it.
Listen to your little brother. 'Wade, just leave it.' Candy-asses. All of you. That's what I've got for children. Candyasses. 'Wade, just leave it.' Praise the Lord! 'Just leave it!' If you ever touch her again, I'll kill you. I swear it.
If you ever touch her again, I'll kill you. I swear it.
I'm glad you're here. Can you stay for a while?
I'm glad you're here. Can you stay for a while?
You ever come to your father's grave No, not anymore. It's too. it's too far.
No, not anymore. It's too. it's too far.
We should talk.
We've done all our talking, Wade.
It's just.
Let the past be. I'm sorry about your mother. I liked her. You never know how much women like that suffer. It's like they live their lives with the sound turned off and then they're gone.
She has an ice-skating lesson at I'm taking ice-skating, Daddy!
She has an ice-skating lesson at I'm taking ice-skating, Daddy!
I'm taking ice-skating, Daddy!
Let's dig out Pop's truck before the skin of the snow freezes up.
What about Margie?
What about her?
Well, do you still plan to get Yeah. She'll probably quit her job and stay out here with Pop. We can't leave him alone here, he'll set the damn place on fire. With Jill here a lot, it'll be good to have Margie around. Things are going to change in that department, by the way. I got a custody lawyer in Concord. I'm gonna see him tomorrow. All hell's gonna break loose, but it's worth
Yeah. She'll probably quit her job and stay out here with Pop. We can't leave him alone here, he'll set the damn place on fire. With Jill here a lot, it'll be good to have Margie around. Things are going to change in that department, by the way. I got a custody lawyer in Concord. I'm gonna see him tomorrow. All hell's gonna break loose, but it's worth
I want to let the gas run out. I don't want the bastard driving drunk, and he's always drunk now. After, we'll hide the keys.
Anything new about the shooting? I guess it was an accident, like everybody thinks.
I guess it was an accident, like everybody thinks.
Want to know what I think happened?
Find them everywhere.
I think your first response to the Twombley shooting was the correct Which is?
Which is?
That it wasn't an accident.
Then who shot him?
Well, your friend, I think. Jack Motive. You gotta have a motive.
Motive. You gotta have a motive.
Who'd pay him that kind of money? Not the mob. They got their own guys. They wouldn't deal with a guy like Jack. Who else benefits if Twombley is suddenly dead?
Who'd pay him that kind of money? Not the mob. They got their own guys. They wouldn't deal with a guy like Jack. Who else benefits if Twombley is suddenly dead?
They wouldn't deal with a guy like Jack. Who else benefits if Twombley is suddenly dead?
I don't know. You tell me.
Okay. It's likely there are people in the union who don't want Twombley to testify. They probably include his son-in-law who's vice-president and will probably be the next president. I read that in the papers. What's his name, Mel Gordon?
Yeah, the guy with the BMW I told you about. I did, didn't I?
Here's my theory. Twombley, unaware of illegal union loans or whatever, starts nosing around cause of the investigation and finds out. Finds out his son-in-law is involved.
So Mel Gordon wouldn't want a professional hit. That'd make the feds dig deeper. He wants an accident.
A hunting accident is perfect.
Shit, around here, you shoot somebody in the woods, you say it was an accident, you get fined fifty bucks and your hunting license lifted. Jack's probably saying the guy shot himself cause he ain't got his deer yet and don't want his license pulled.
It's too neat. Things ain't that neat. It makes me mad. That somebody can pay to kill somebody, his own father-in-law, and not be punished for it. Don't that piss you off?
Not particularly.
Right's right, goddamnit! Don't you care what's right?
I care about what happened. The truth. I'm a student of history, remember?
I was thinking about that story you told me, about Pop and chopping the firewood out of the ice and after.
I hate to disappoint you, but I don't think it happened.
I hate to disappoint you, but I don't think it happened.
Of course it happened. Why would I lie about it?
It may have happened, but not the way you said.
You think I wouldn't remember a thing like that?
It wasn't me. I wasn't there, but I heard about it. When I heard about it, it was about Elbourne.
We'd have to go digging in Vietnam to ask him.
And Elbourne and Mom took you to the doctor and told him you fell from the hay loft.
Well, I never heard that one.
I remember clearly cause when I heard I became real careful around Pop. I was a careful child and I became a careful adult, but at least I wasn't afflicted by that man's violence.
That's what you think.
I gotta head back. It's a long drive.
Put out that fucking cigarette!
Not there, asshole. Flush it!
Morning, Gordon.
I'm fucking out of here.
Out of this fucking job. This job sucks. Working outside in the winter
Out of this fucking job. This job sucks. Working outside in the winter
Open the door, will ya?
Why don't you quit now, you want out so bad?
Open the door. We're late.
I mean it you got enough money now. Head out for California. Surf's up, Jack, and you're digging wells in the snow.
What do you mean I got money? I'm as broke as you.
Looney Tunes, Jack. Fucking Looney
The boss in?
I screwed up the divorce. I agreed with everything she said. I wanted her to like me. I just want to be a good father.
It would help if you were married, if there was someone at home while you work.
I plan to. Soon.
How soon?
This spring.
Good. It would help if there were some drug or alcohol abuse on the part of your ex-wife. Sexual problems upsetting to the child.
It looks pretty hopeless, don't it?
No, not exactly. I'll look at the divorce decree, see if we can get it redrawn. Interview your daughter. Jill, right?
Fine. I'll need a $500 retainer. You can mail it.
Fine. I'll need a $500 retainer. You can mail it.
Jesus. How much. how much will the whole thing cost?
Hard to say. If we go for custody, depositions, psychiatric evaluations, it could drag on. Ten or twelve thousand dollars. She could win on appeal. If we just want to get the visitation rights redrawn, assuming they're unduly restrictive, it wouldn't be more than twenty-five You might be better off legally as well as financially to just go for Yeah. I know. The custody suit thing was just my getting back at her. I'm not as dumb as I look. Whatever you say. I love my daughter. I'll send you the five hundred.
You might be better off legally as well as financially to just go for Yeah. I know. The custody suit thing was just my getting back at her. I'm not as dumb as I look. Whatever you say. I love my daughter.  I'll send you the five hundred.
You might be better off legally as well as financially to just go for Yeah. I know. The custody suit thing was just my getting back at her. I'm not as dumb as I look. Whatever you say. I love my daughter.  I'll send you the five hundred.
Yeah. I know. The custody suit thing was just my getting back at her. I'm not as dumb as I look. Whatever you say. I love my daughter. I'll send you the five hundred.
Sorry about the long lunch. My clutch is going out again.
You ever think of getting a new car, On what you pay me?
On what you pay me?
Elaine! Call Chub Meritt and have him pick up Wade's car, fix the Use the pickup. I'll bill it to the town. You're the town police officer and the town police officer should have a decent car. You want a new car or not?
Use the pickup. I'll bill it to the town. You're the town police officer and the town police officer should have a decent car. You want a new car or not?
What do I have to do for it?
Nothing, Wade, I've been thinking. You don't get enough appreciation around here and it's time we changed things a little.
I saw Mel Gordon in here this morning.
He say anything about the summons I tried to give him? Sonofabitch wouldn't accept it.
He say anything about the summons I tried to give him? Sonofabitch wouldn't accept it.
Wade, that wasn't smart. Going out right after the man's father-in-law shot himself. Let it go. Call it a favor to me.
You? Why?
Mel's doing some business with me. It's nice to do favors for people you do business with. He was in a hurry. No big deal.
That was before Twombley was shot. Before he knew.
What's the difference? Take my truck, take a rest stop worrying about Mel Gordon. Have you decided what to do with your old man's place he going to stay there?
Want to buy?
Don't light that in here. I'm I won't. You interested?
I won't. You interested?
You and Mel Gordon?
You and Mel Gordon?
Could be.
Always count on old Wade for a good screwing. Why should I always pay more, sell cheap? Why should you guys make all the money. You and Mel and Jack. Right's right.
Out! Out!
You crazy sonofabitch! You'll sink us both! Get off the fucking ice! Get off!
I'll shoot you, Wade, I swear it! I'll fucking shoot you dead if you don't move away from that truck!
Don't move! I'll shoot you dead if you move!
Your father's in back, Wade. Marg had to babysit him. She moved in with you, huh? What happened?
Ah, the prodigal son.
About fucking time.
Look, got me a new job, second cook and bottle washer!
What happened?
Jesus Christ, Pop, let's go home. I got waylaid. Sorry.
The fuck you got waylaid. You follow your prick around like it was your Can it, Whitehouse. Get him out of here. It was funny at first, but I'm tired.
Can it, Whitehouse.  Get him out of here. It was funny at first, but I'm tired.
There's clothes in the back.
Let's go home? What home is that? Your home? My home? Let's have a talk about that. You're fucking sly, Wade. Your mother's dead so she can't make any excuses for you anymore! You gotta deal with me! No more sugar tit, asshole.
Pop, for Christ's sake!
You think you can take me now? Come on, try.
Marg, get out of this. Fast.
I can't.
I wish you would die.
Stop it! Stop it! Just stop it!
Then you accidentally see your body, or your face, or whatever, and you don't know who the hell it belongs to. Strange. It's the business with the old man, I know, and how incredibly pissed I was at him, and also chasing Jack Hewitt like that, and the Goddamned truck going through the ice, not to mention Margie's being so upset one thing on top of another.
But you gotta hear this. You won't believe it. Mel Gordon had come by to visit LaRiviere and so now I'm in his office.
He's on to us!
Shit! What are we gonna do?
Maybe I can buy him off. I gotta talk to Mel.
You can't buy Wade off.
We bought you.
That was me.
Wade! Come in! Have a cup of coffee.
You got yourself a computer, Alma.
Been putting my files into it. You take sugar and milk?
No. Black.
Are you alright, Wade?
Yeah, sure. Why? I got this damned tooth, I got a few things bugging me, like everybody else. But I'm Well, you look. sad. Upset. I don't mean to pry. I'm sorry about your mother. It was a nice funeral.
Well, you look. sad. Upset. I don't mean to pry. I'm sorry about your mother. It was a nice funeral.
Alma, I think there's some dirty business going on in this town.
Always has been.
This is maybe worse than you and I are used to. What I'm talking about, I'm talking about murder. Among other things.
Evan Twombley, the union boss who got shot. Somebody murdered him.
Evan Twombley, the union boss who got shot. Somebody murdered him.
You know Jack Hewitt, the kid I work
You know Jack Hewitt, the kid I work
.if Jack told the truth, he could be free by the time he's my age.
Sometimes things are simpler than you think. Let me ask you a question.
You don't believe me?
About Jack? No. Have you checked out the tax bill on your father's farm I know he's due for the last two years. I was thinking of paying it when the insurance comes in.
I know he's due for the last two years. I was thinking of paying it when the insurance comes in.
Has anybody offered to buy it?
As a mater of fact, yes. LaRiviere.
This is all the real estate transactions in this town the last year. Most of it unused land. Most of it for little more than the back taxes owed.
This is from three years ago. Some difference, huh?
What is the Northcountry Development I went down to Concord to check it out. The president is Mel Gordon. The vice-president and treasurer is Gordon LaRiviere. Those boys are buying up the mountain, Wade. $364,000 this year. I believe that's out of LaRiviere's league.
I went down to Concord to check it out. The president is Mel Gordon. The vice-president and treasurer is Gordon LaRiviere. Those boys are buying up the mountain, Wade. $364,000 this year. I believe that's out of LaRiviere's league.
Twombley involved?
He musta found out. They had to get rid of him. And Jack'll get blamed.
He musta found out. They had to get rid of him. And Jack'll get blamed.
All the figures show is that Gordon LaRiviere is going to be a very rich man using his position as Selectman. In a year or two, you won't recognize this town.
You sneaky sonofabitch! I've got your number now, Gordon! All these years I actually thought you were a decent man. Can you believe that?
Wade, you're done. Let me have the shop keys.
You two, don't you get it? He's using you. You're his slaves.  Jesus Christ, Jack, don't you see The key, Wade.
The key, Wade.
Yeah, you can have the key. It's the key that's kept me locked to you all these years. I give it to you with Now I'm free. See how easy it is, Jack? All you got to do is give back what the man gave you, and you're free of him. I've got to call my brother. I know what it means. I'm just running out of ways to use it.
The good news is we haven't got to your car yet. The bad news
Just tell me when you'll have it with Gordon's truck what somebody drove through the ice last night. Figured you'd know something about that, Wade.
the bad news is there's a problem with Gordon's truck what somebody drove through the ice last night. Figured you'd know something about that, Wade.
Yeah. I know about that.
LaRiviere says he ain't gonna pay for the fixin' of your car. A couple hundred for the clutch. I got some more bad news. Wanna hear it?
Tell me.
Chub says you're fired.
He can't fire me. LaRiviere already did that this morning.
He's a Selectman. The town. He said to tell you to turn your badge in and clean out your office. I'm supposed to pull the CB and police light out of your car. They're town
What do you mean, you can't take me today? I told you
What on earth is happening to you? Why are you acting this way?
It's my tooth! My fucking tooth! I can't even think anymore because of I heard you talking. You got fired this morning, didn't you?
I heard you talking. You got fired this morning, didn't you?
Look, that's temporary, believe me. There's so much shit gonna hit the fan the next few days, my getting fired by LaRiviere and Merritt won't matter a bit.
I'll get another job. People are going to need me. After this is over, they'll make me into a Goddamned hero. You waitLeave the bottle out!
Wait there. She'll be right out. Is there snow on the ground up in Yeah, lots.
Yeah, lots.
See. Get your boots.
Hi honey.
Have her back tomorrow night by six.
Have her back tomorrow night by six.
No problem. Look, I.
You make me sick. I can't believe you've sunk so low.
Low as what? What have I done? It's bad to want to see your own daughter?
You know what I'm talking about. For what you're doing to me and to the child you say you love so much. Love. You won't get away with it. Bye, honey! Call me tonight if you
Bye, honey! Call me tonight if you
Are we going in this?
Yeah. My car's in the shop. This'll be fine.
It's pretty old.
It belongs to Pop.
Grandpa. My father. It's his.
Grandpa. My father. It's his.
Wade opens the truck door. Jill climbs in with her overnight bag, looks back to the door where Lillian watches.
How about a Big Mac?
Mommy won't let me eat fast food. You know that. It's bad for you.
C'mon, we can always sneak a Big Mac. And a cherry turnover. Your favorite. What do you say?
What do you want, then?
What do you want, then?
You can't have nothing, Jill. We need lunch. Mr. Pizza?
You can't have nothing, Jill. We need lunch. Mr. Pizza?
Same thing, Daddy. Mommy says
I know what Mommy says. I'm in charge today, though.
Okay. So we'll get what you want. What do you want?
Nothing, I guess. I guess I can wait till we get home. Maybe we'll stop by Wickham's for a hamburger when we get to Lawford. That suit you? You always like Wickham's.

Pause. Wade looks over at Jill and realizes she is crying.
Oh, Jesus, Jill, I'm sorry. What's the matter, honey?
Please don't cry. Please, honey.
What are you sorry for?
I don't know. For the food business. I guess. I just thought, you know, we'd sneak a Big Mac on Mommy, like we used to.
I want to go home.
You can't.
That's illegal, you know.
I know.
You're a policeman.
Nope. Not anymore. I'm nothing
CUT TOJillie, you want a cheese grilled It's called a grilled cheese sandwich, you dub.
It's called a grilled cheese sandwich, you dub.
Jill, please, it's alright. Nothing I want to go home.
I want to go home.
Okay, let's go home, then.
Wade, I got a message for you.  Jack Hewitt, he's looking for you. Wants you to clear your stuff out of his office in Town Hall.
His office. You mean my old office.
Well, I guess that's what he said.
He got his deer yet?
No, he's out now. Somewhere on the mountain. I'd stay away from him if I were you. He's real pissed.
Going somewhere, Margie?
I'm just cleaning out some of this stuff that's built up. For the rummage sale. And some things for the cleaners. And the laundromat.
Don't lie to me. You're leaving me, I can see that.
Don't be silly. Hi, Jill.

Leave me alone! Leave me alone!
Leave her alone! Leave her alone!
Get in.
I want to go home. Will you take me
She closes the front door, starts the car. She backs out the In her rear view mirror she sees the image of Wade receding, standing frozen, staring down at the snow. Pop emerges from the house, looks at his son, grinning. Wade looks at his old man, that dumb devilish grin plastered on his father's face. Glen Whitehouse holds an empty whiskey bottle like a pistol. Hunters' gunshots echo in the distance.
You! By Christ, you I know you.  Yeah, you goddamn sonofabitch, I know you. You're a goddamn fucking piece of my heart!
You don't know me. You don't know  So fuck you. Fuck you.
Nah-nah-naw! You done done finally done it! Like a man done it. Done it right. I love you, you mean
Love! What the fuck do you know about Love! I'm made of love!
Love! I'm made of love!
Call it what you want.
Everything you know is from me.
You and me.
You and me.
You and me.
Where the Christ you going? You sonofabitch, you leave my fucking truck where it is! I need. Give me the Goddamn keys! I need to get me to town!
Nothing in the fucking house to drink. Not a fucking thing. My house, my money, my truck stolen!
Nothing in the fucking house to drink. Not a fucking thing. My house, my money, my truck stolen!
I don't know you. My goddamn father and I don't know you.
I know you now. I love you too.
Joke. You scared me.
WritersDeacon! What are you doing? I was watching that.
Come on, let's go. We're going to be And when I say film appreciation, I mean film duplication. Fred steals them, Matt copies them, and I sell them.
First, I go to Yale, then Harvard law, then when I'm making a hundred grand a year, I'll have a whole stable of hot chicks sitting around topless on my
Will that work?
You are a complete moron.
FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT 3. 4 INT. WILLIAM WALL HIGH SCHOOL - HALLWAY - DAY 4 The video monitors up and down the hallways display an image that reads "Fifteen Days Till Midterms." Fred sees two AMAZING GIRLS walking towards him.
That test was sooo hard.
We're going to be late. Are you coming?
What are you doing?
All great directors start this way. I'm documenting the essence of high school. Teenagers running to meet their destiny only to find it's just home room. It's very existential.
So's my balls. See you later.
Dirty Darla #7 is a modern classic. This is grade-A porn, my friend. Worth a lot more than twenty dollars.
He hands him the money and Deacon makes the exchange for the tape. The freshman clutches it like gold and scurries away. Deacon heads out down the hallway towards his locker. He sees a gaggle of teenage GIRLS gossiping.
. the increase in the hormone testosterone causes certain physiological changes in the adolescent male.
Two GUYS are whispering.
Did you hear about Rachael?
No, what happened?
John Baldwin nailed her.
Are you talking about Rachael Unger?
Yeah. It was at Richard Rosenblatt's party. In the bathroom.
You're kidding.
Rachael! What are you doing?
We've been together for a year now, and I thought it was time to take our relationship to the next level.
You've been talking about this for I didn't think you were listening to me.
You've been talking about this for I didn't think you were listening to me.
I didn't think you were listening to me.
Don't you want to?
Of course I do. But, I, um. I don't have anything.
I do.
I have a math test tomorrow.
Did you videotape it?
Yeah. I took my camera to gym class with You are the biggest moron I have ever
You are the biggest moron I have ever
Hey, guys. Here's the money.
Something wrong?
Yeah. I heard Rachael Unger did it with John Baldwin.
Well, you had your chance. I told you to seal that deal.
Shut up, Fabio. I don't see you sealing any deals.
I'm biding my time.
Whatever. It just wasn't good timing.
It doesn't get any better than that. You and Rachael were perfect for each other. And naked girls don't just appear out of thin air. "I have a math test tomorrow."
Will you shut up already? Look, I've been thinking about this all day. We're juniors now. Upperclassmen.
They reach the bike rack and start unlocking their bikes.
So we have a responsibility to ourselves to start having fun and getting girls. This year is our year. There's nothing holding us back any more.
That's not going to be us this year, or next year, or any year, ever.
Why not? All we have to do is follow the simple lessons of Tony Montana in "Scar Ooh. Good movie.
Ooh. Good movie.
So, we're going to become Cuban drug FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT 10. Fred and Matt look at Deacon warily. Is this a plan? Then, the hot girls and Jake drive past the guys.
Listen, the porno pirating operation is bringing in plenty of money. When I get my new car tonight for my birthday, we'll have the power to go wherever we want. Then, there's nothing stopping us from getting the girls.
Bye, Sphincter!
Nothing's going to change, Deacon. You're still going to be the kid who shit his pants in fifth grade and no one will ever let you forget it.
I had a stomach virus, asshole.
Oh, that's just not fair.
Fred makes sure Russ isn't looking and ducks into the porno section. Hurriedly, he pulls out "Half-Cyborg 5.right into.
Fred SCREAMS.
The Customers stop to stare at the scene. Fred breaks free, and Russ chases after him.
Come back here, you bastard!
I'm Candy. Let's play dress-up.
FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT 12. Fred sits there, whimpering on the ground.
And I signal exactly two hundred feet before the turn. Rule 108-1.
Great. Now after the right, I want you to parallel park in the open space.
I begin the parallel parking maneuver by pulling within three feet of the forward vehicle. I now shift into reverse while turning the wheel two revolutions
Deacon's picture is taken. He passed.
Deacon pretends to be surprised.
Wow. This is great.
Were you surprised?
Really. I was.
Really. I was.
Really. I was.
Happy birthday, Deacon. It's Lois Lane #2. Be careful. It's still in the
23 INT. DEACON'S HOUSE - LATER 23
Are you ready for the big present?
You mean there's more?
It's in the garage. Come with us.
It's a new computer system. You've been talking about it for months.
What? That's not what you wanted?
No, it is. It's just
I'll take it.
MR. LEWIS
We can exchange it if it's not the right No, I just thought I thought you guys were buying me that car I wanted.
No, I just thought I thought you guys were buying me that car I wanted.
A car? Why do you need a car?
You can ask permission to use our car whenever you want, champ.
Like you know what anyone in this house really wants.
Now what are we going to do?
At least you got this great party.
Actually, we were expecting a lot more
You invited more people?
Well, we did send out flyers to like three hundred people from school.
And no one showed up?
I did.
Uh, guys. No one showed up because they're all at Tom Cooperman's house. He's having a keg party.
Uh, guys. No one showed up because they're all at Tom Cooperman's house. He's having a keg party.
What? Why didn't I hear about this? That shit's not right.
I heard it from Rahim. He beamed me the 411 in study hall.
Let's go.
Yeah. Tom Cooperman kicked me in the balls in third grade, and I swear there is still a footprint on my nutsack.
Yeah. Tom Cooperman kicked me in the balls in third grade, and I swear there is still a footprint on my nutsack.
Come on, guys. Can I just get one thing that I ask for on my goddamn birthday?
He's got a point.
Fine. Watch your balls.
Hey, Coop. Can we come in?
Hey, Coop. Can we come in?
Sorry, son, that dog won't hunt. Y'all ain't on the list.
Coop. It's my birthday today, so cut me some slack, all right?
Well, pickle my turnips, why didn't you say so? Happy birthday, friend.
Little help?
Oh, my God. There's Naomi.
She looks good.
She spilled her beer.
Fred adjusts his pants. Deacon makes a decision. One that he'd normally never make.
Your dignity?
She's Rachael's friend. It's not like I don't know her.
Ask her if she has any unusual hats. Girls like that.
Hey, Naomi.
Happy Birthday, Deacon.
You remembered.
Well, I got this flyer and
Oh, right. So where's Jake?
Like I care.
So you two aren't going out any more?
Deacon's mind is racing with possibilities whenScrew off. I'm talking to Deacon.
Jake gives Deacon a dirty look, nods a "let's go" to J.T. and Mark, and heads out back.
Jake gives Deacon a dirty look, nods a "let's go" to J.T. and Mark, and heads out back.
No, that's okay.
No, seriously. It's cool.
Come on, Deacon.
Yeah. Come on.
All right.
Dude, what are you doing? Take off your We're skinny dipping, Deacon.
We're skinny dipping, Deacon.
We're skinny dipping, Deacon.
Oh. Okay. Sorry, I'll just leave you guys alone then
No, come on in. Join us.
shorts. He gets into the pool in his underwear, then slips them off, too, and throws them on the side of pool.
Wow. This feels amazing.
Hey, give me back my clothes!
Freakin? I can't see you. Maybe I need to turn on the LIGHTS.
No, I didn't! Give them back!
Sphincter boy shit his pants!
Hey, watch the nads!
What the hell kind of sick shit is this?
You know how long it's going to take to save up for a car selling porno tapes twenty bucks a pop?
There's a small problem.
I got fired yesterday. Russ caught me and went berserk. Some sort of sting operation he's been planning for months. I don't know.
I got fired yesterday. Russ caught me and went berserk. Some sort of sting operation he's been planning for months. I don't know.
You're kidding me, right? Tell me you're No. And now I have to work twice a week at my dad's office. I told you this Scarface plan was stupid.
No. And now I have to work twice a week at my dad's office. I told you this Scarface plan was stupid.
Great. So now we've got no girls, no car, and no money.
And no porn.
Tony Montana would be very disappointed.
Now turn your textbooks to chapter six, the Animal Kingdom. As you should know by now, biology is the study of life, in all its infinite varieties.
Is this some kind of extortion racket? I'll pay you double if you can get me something today.
I'm sorry. There's nothing we can do for a while. We don't have anything new.
I'm dying. I just need something.
Hey, Naomi. What are you up to?
Going home to cram for midterms.
Oh. I could help you. I mean, if you needed any help.
That's okay. I'll be all right.
She went to Paris with the French Club. We're seeing other people.
Look, can you please stop calling me that? I think we're old enough to just let it go. All right?
Oh, sure. Sorry about that. Shit-pants.
She turns her back to Jake and his smile fades. He revs the engine and peels out BACKWARDS. Deacon jumps out of the way, but his bike is CRUSHED by the car.
Oops. Sorry.
Look, mom. I need a car.
But I thought we agreed
I need a car of my own.
Well, honey. A car is a lot of Jesus, Mom. I'm seventeen now. I think I can handle it.
Jesus, Mom. I'm seventeen now. I think I can handle it.
Well, it's also a lot of money. I'll tell you what. Maybe you can get an after school job to earn money for a car. I'll talk to your father.
Goddamn it.
Your dad really knows his firewalls.
Hey, asshole. Don't just come barging in here. We could have been naked.
Shut up. I figured out how to get back on the Tony Montana track.. So, I'm at the zoo today.
People! People! Come quickly. Witness the miracle of nature at its most primal. And these monkeys are doing it. I mean, they're going wild. And Miss Ariel is videotaping it.
With one final thrust of his engorged penis, the male deposits his seed and moves on.  Probably to a younger, more desirable female. One who doesn't have any "issues." Whatever that means.
A little help!
Let's make one.
Let's make one.
One what?
A movie.
Great! That's perfect! I've already got an idea for a kind of sci-fi horror thing. It's like "The Shining" meets "The No, you moron. A porno film.
No, you moron. A porno film.
Even better.
And check this out. The best part of all, is I've got an angle.
What kind of angle?
We can make pornos that cater to guys like us.
You mean virgins.
Yes. Adult films made by virgins for With good cinematography.
With good cinematography.
And cute, nice girls. The kind you'd want to take to dinner with your parents.
Right. No shots of sweaty guys' faces.
And nothing up the butt.
These have to be nicely edited. We should shoot on super 16 and transfer to video.
No, Matt. We'll shoot it on your video camera. We're not getting any expensive How are we going to get the women to star in the film?
How are we going to get the women to star in the film?
And the guys.
I don't know. We'll surf the net. We'll figure it out.
That was really funny.
I'm serious about this.
We can't make a porno movie.
Do you have any idea how much trouble we'd get in?
Do you have any idea how much money we'd
Like how much?
Enough for a car. Enough for more camera shit. To take girls out. I don't know. For whatever we want.
What about the moral implications?
It's a free market transaction between consenting adults. What's the problem?
We're not adults.
He's got a point, Deacon.
Guys, tell me the truth. Haven't you ever wondered. haven't you ever imagined what it would be like to make one?
Not really.
Okay. Sure. I've thought about it. I've thought about shaving Principal Taggert's ass, too.
Look. This is an opportunity we shouldn't let slip away. If we make this movie, it could be the best year of our lives. We'll go in boys and come out men. And at the end, we'll have the money, the power, and the women. But you losers would rather play it safe. Well, I'm not going to waste another minute. I'm making this porno movie with or without you. And when I show up at school in my new set of wheels, and you two limp dicks are begging me for my sloppy seconds, I'll just have to tell you, "Sorry, guys. That ship has sailed. You blew it."
That was a really good speech, Deacon.
Did you work that out before?
Did you work that out before?
No, Matt.
Okay. So say we were to do this. What would we call our company?
I've got it. "After School Special."
That was good. Some good action.
I've got a question for you Mike, and I want you to promise to be completely Sure. Of course, Vic.
Sure. Of course, Vic.
Do you think I'm too fat?
Are you kidding? The camera loves you.
Thanks, man. Darla, sweetheart. Ready for number
Thanks, man. Darla, sweetheart. Ready for number
Thanks, man. Darla, sweetheart. Ready for number
Sure, Vic, lemme freshen up first.
Is he in there?
So, you think you can just walk into my town and move in on my territory?
We've got to have two forms of i.d. to prove she's over eighteen.
How much money do we need?
A first time porno actress makes only two fifty to five hundred bucks.
That's it? Does that include the sex?
Yes, Matt.
So how do we get women for this movie?
We place an ad in the Cleveland X-Press for "body models." That's like some sort of code word in the industry.
Are we supposed to have sex with these No, Matt.
No, Matt.
Fred, your father wants you to take these urine samples down to the lab.
Okay. In a minute.
Let's use Principal Taggert's name.
Oh yeah, good idea. That'll never come back to haunt us.
Then whose name should we use?
I'm Ronald Greitzer here for my 4Okay, Mr. Greitzer. I'll let the doctor know you're here for your. rectal exam. Have a seat.
No way.
Why not? It's perfect. My dad's got Mr. Greitzer's signature on file, his credit card number, and his social security
And he'll never find out?
It's not like we're going to send him our annual report. It'll just be like an official name of record or something.
Okay. Cool.
And take these fecal and semen samples,
And we need porno names.
What do you mean?
It's a basic rule of porno. All people affiliated with the production of an adult film have porno names so their friends don't recognize them.
Oh, you mean like "Johnny Hardmember"?
Exactly. That's a good one. I'll be Balls Ooh, I like it.
Ooh, I like it.
Guys. Those kind of names are just for the actors.
You're just jealous that you don't have a cool porno name like us.
Okay, fine. Then I'm Sam . Slam. Sam Slam. The Back Door Man.
That name sucks.
You don't get it, do you? A porno name needs to be a very subtle thing.
Sorry, Balls. I guess I'm still new at Matt, pick that up.
Matt, pick that up.
And I'm telling the guy, he's got to use form ND-45 for a third-party beneficiary, but Johnson's gotta be the big man. "We've been using ND-90 for twenty-two years." But Johnson's an idiot. He doesn't know ND-90 doesn't even exist
Deacon, it's for you. It's a young lady named Palomina.
Yeah. 345 Remson. That's right. Great. Wednesday, three to five. Looking forward to working with you, too.
No, we don't pay bus fare.
Sure, you can bring your dog. Oh. No, that's okay. Better leave him Thanks. You sound sexy, too.
Thanks. You sound sexy, too.
I can't believe this is working.
When you have sex with a strange man, do you imagine it's like your boyfriend or
Roger. Over.
Take a seat please.
Hi, I'm Balls McLongcock and this is Sam Tequila. You boys seem kind of young.
Tequila. You boys seem kind of young.
Don't worry. We're old enough.
Tequila. Nice name. So, have you done any films before?
I been in some home movies. Stuff like that. Some pictures.
Okay, then. I think we have what we need. We'll call you.
So you don't want me to suck you two off?
No, I don't think that will be necessary at this time.
Maybe later.
Maybe if we put another ad in and say we're only looking for good looking
There's got to be another way to recruit porno actresses.
Three digital images of the guys are lined up on Deacon's computer monitor . Deacon is digitally altering the photo of Fred to give him a goatee. Matt's photo has already gotten mutton chops and Deacon's looking sweet with a fu-manchu.
I say we make them from Hawaii.
It's perfect. Do you know what a Hawaii driver's license looks like?
It's perfect. Do you know what a Hawaii driver's license looks like?
But isn't it going to seem a little suspicious? Like why are we in Cleveland?
But isn't it going to seem a little suspicious? Like why are we in Cleveland?
But isn't it going to seem a little suspicious? Like why are we in Cleveland?
Vacation. People from Cleveland vacation in Hawaii, where do you think people from Hawaii go?
48 INT. DEACON'S HOUSE - FAMILY ROOM - NIGHT 48
Hey, mom. Can I borrow the car?
I have to go to the video store later.
But, mom. You said I could use the car, but it's never free.
All right, Deacon. I'll walk to the Where are you guys going?
Where are you guys going?
MR. LEWIS
Why are you boys dressed like Don Ho?
This is the new style, Mr. Lewis.
Yeah, for ass-wranglers.
49 INT. AEROSTAR - NIGHT 49
Are we really going to do this?
Oh, yeah.
They confidently pull out the i.d.'s and hand them over.
We're on business, he's on vacation.
Well, "tiki-alohi-noa-lohi."
That's Hawaiian for "welcome."
That's Hawaiian for "welcome."
Right. Of course. We just moved to Hawaii a few months ago. Haven't picked up the local lingo yet.
Okay. Have a good time, guys.
The Bouncer closes the door on them. Busted.
Look. We have to get into this strip bar.
The next two years of high school depend on it.
How old are you guys?
Fred smacks him.
Fred smacks him.
Fred smacks him.
Sorry, guys. We've got money.
We've got money.
What'll you boys have? Two drink minimum.
Huh? Oh. I'll have a scotch. Straight up. On the rocks.
I'll have a seven and seven.
Uh, same.
I don't know. But I heard that guy over there order one and I like the way it sounds. Numerical.
To After School Special.
It tastes like poison.
She takes Fred's hand and walks him over to a private dance couch. As the next SONG starts, a curtain lowers around Fred and the Stripper. Fred is a little freaked out.
She rubs up and down Fred's body, shaking her hair in his face. Matt and Deacon watch intently.
BACK TO SCENE FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT 42. The song ends, the curtain comes up, and Fred is smiling ear to ear. The Stripper gets dressed and Fred pays her.
Uh, not right now, thank you. I have to go to the bathroom.
She sits down on Fred's lap. Right on his boner.
You want mine?
We're from Hawaii.
Actually, we're filmmakers. We're here looking for new talent.
Yeah, we're looking for some beautiful ladies looking to break into film. You
Hi, I'm Ashley. You guys are filmmakers?
Video actually. They won't let me shoot on film.
Look. We're paying top dollar, hetero only, no anal, and we're distributing through our web site.
Aren't you kind of young?
Aren't you? You know we're going to need two forms of i.d. to prove you're over I'm eighteen. Don't worry.
I'm eighteen. Don't worry.
Then you're hired.
Shouldn't we audition her first?
Don't worry. You guys relax and have a few drinks. By the time the night's over, you'll know I'm your girl.
Someone's been recruiting new talent.
Jimmy Rimmer says they're from Hawaii.
Why the hell would someone from Hawaii come to Cleveland?
Vacation? There's the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.
That's true.
Who you gonna shoot?
I don't know.
Calm down, Vic. I don't need you all agitated. You still got five films to star in today.
You're right, Mikey.
Don't worry. I'll find these guys and take care of it.
You hungry?
Yeah, I could eat.
Grab some lunch?
Yeah, okay.
What are you guys doing?
We came up with a great idea. We're going to presell the videos by posting the scripts on the website.
Will that work?
I don't know. But it's kind of fun. We just wrote this whole thing about the girls' locker room.
One thing, though. If our motto is "by virgins, for virgins," I was thinking we should put a picture of one of us on the web site to sort of sell the image.
You're not putting my picture up there.
It doesn't really have to be one of us, though, does it?
Deacon, look who's here. Your friend,
Hi, guys.
You kids have fun.
What the hell's going on, Sphincter?
What are you doing here?
I saw the strippers. And some crack whore named Saffron came over my house the other day looking for you guys.
We don't know what you're talking about.
What's this? "Oh, my God. There's a boy at the door looking at us naked in the
Are you crazy?
Are you crazy?
They're not whores if we film them, you
You retards are making a porno movie?
You can't prove anything.
Who's the girl?
A stripper. Her name's Ashley.
Who's the guy?
No, that's not a good idea.
Why not?
It's a lot harder than it looks.
You don't think I can do it? Trust me, I've nailed enough girls.
Forget it.
Look, you little butt munch. I want to do this, and if you don't let me, I'll go and tell your mommy what kind of sick shit you're doing.
So, um, I'll be directing.
Okay. So I want you to play this very understated. It's a very visceral scene, so it's important not to play it too over the top.
Okay. So I want you to play this very understated. It's a very visceral scene, so it's important not to play it too over the top.
Uh huh. Hey, did you guys shave or something?
Okay. I think we're ready here.
Boom in position.
Deacon pushes him over to position.
Ashley, get into position.
Are we actually going to do this?
I guess so.
So, um, we're starting with the masturbation and then Phillip, the yearbook editor, is going to surprise FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT 50.
FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT 50.
And . action.
These yearbook photos of the Debate Club are making me so hot. I can't help
FRED smiles ear to ear. DEACON gulps. MATT peers out from behind the camera.
Close up.
Close up.
Close up.
Oh yeah. Right.
Okay, CUT!
What? Did I so something wrong?
Uh, no. You were great. I think I've got what I need there. I want to set up for I need a bathroom break.
I need a bathroom break.
Not now, Fred. Jake.
Jake opens a makeshift door to the office.
Oh, my God. What are you doing?
I couldn't help myself. Please don't tell the principal.
Give me one good reason why I shouldn't.
Cut. Perfect. Okay, then. Let's get to the, uh, sexual material.
Jake, you okay?
Sure. No problem.
And ACTION!
Still nothing.
Come on, Jake. We're filming.
All right. Hang on a second.
My arm's getting tired.
So's his.
Jake finally whips off his underwear and faces Ashley.
That's it?
Hey, it's not hard yet.
I can see that.
Um, okay. Ashley, maybe you can help him Wait! I'm not set up for that shot!
FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT 53.
Wait! I'm not set up for that shot!
Can I put down the boom?
Jake? What's happened?
This has never happened before. She got me too excited.
Me? How did you . without even getting hard first?
What do you want to hear? I've got a tiny pee-pee? I'm a premature e-jac-u-la-tor? Sometimes before I get a boner? Okay?
Calm down, Jake. We can shoot this scene again. Just relax. We can splice it We'd have to do it like twenty times to get enough footage.
We'd have to do it like twenty times to get enough footage.
I'm out of here. And if you dickwads tell anybody about this, first I'll kill you, and then I'll bust you guys. Now what?
Now what?
Deacon. You do it.
No way.
Come on. This is your big chance.
No. You do it.
Come on.
Come on.
Come on.
I have to run the camera.
I have to run the camera.
Oh, like you're the only one who can do Fine. I'll do it. I'll do it for the sake of the film. Hold this.
Fine. I'll do it. I'll do it for the sake of the film. Hold this.
Matt. Stop it.
No, I'll do it.

Fine with me.
No. We can get someone else.
CUT TODeacon, standing a little too close to him.
Good issue. You ever think about getting into film?
Don't you want to get it on with a sexy And that guy had real screen presence,
And that guy had real screen presence,
Hey, dudes.
Oh, I've got it. What if the Math Team Captain is in detention for something.
For fixing grades for a girl.
Yeah, and the cheerleader is in there and she's going to get grounded if she fails one more test.
In a minute!
Are you okay?
Yeah. Thanks. I'm so embarrassed.
Really? I didn't think you got embarrassed about anything.
Deacon, wait. Block me for a second while I change my shirt.
Facing the other way.
Facing the other way.
He turns around and she changes her shirt behind him. Deacon can't help but sneak a peek.
I haven't seen you around here in a Yeah, I'm working on this project at Cool. You can turn around now.
Yeah, I'm working on this project at Cool. You can turn around now.
Cool. You can turn around now.
Why not?
Why not?
Okay. Cool.
Deacon, come quick.
Matt, what's wrong?
Our site got linked by another bigger site. Someone must have seen our stories and liked them.
We got a few more pre-orders and a ton of How many?
We got a few more pre-orders and a ton of How many?
How many?
A thousand?
A thousand?
Twelve thousand.
Holy shit!
We need to hurry up and make this movie.
We should go over the schedule for tomorrow. And make sure the script is
Uh, I can't tonight guys.
Why? Where are you going?
It's this thing I have to go to.
Is it a travelling carnival?
No. Look, it's this party Naomi invited me to.
Can we come?
Uh. Okay. I guess that's cool.
We can just meet you there.
Yeah. Okay. That's cool. Look, it's at Mark and J.T. Slistak's house. I'll see you guys there. I've got to get back to
Deacon walks back to the group.
We're not really going to the party, you Why not?
Why not?
Because I said so.
But we told Deacon I mean, we can't just not show up. What if Deacon is looking for us
All right. All right. Stop crying already. We'll make an appearance.
66 INT. MARK'S HOUSE - NIGHT 66
You know, Rachael's coming back from Paris in a couple of weeks.
So, aren't you even a little interested in seeing her?
So, aren't you even a little interested in seeing her?
No. There's someone else I'd rather
Hey, guys.
So what's this project you guys are working on?
We can't really talk about it.
What's your problem, Jake?
What's yours?
What was that all about?
He really pisses me off. Jake is such an Tell me about it.
Tell me about it.
When we were going out, he was so mean to me all the time. I think he's compensating for his little dick that never even gets hard.
Well at least you were smart enough to dump him. I mean, you deserve someone who will treat you . I don't know. Really You know what you are?
You know what you are?
I've been wanting to do that for a long So why didn't you?
So why didn't you?
Hey, where's Coop?
He was supposed to be here a half hour Maybe he got sucked into a black hole.
Maybe he got sucked into a black hole.
Good one, Spock. I can't understand why you're not more popular with the ladies.
Look, we're wasting time. Deacon, why don't you just go in there? Come on.
Okay. Okay. All right already.
And action!
And maybe I could throw in the sausage for free.
Fred, you get in there, too.
Are you sure?
Yeah, it'll be a great shot.
How's it going?
How's it going?
How's it going?
Yeah. They said there's going to be a massive eruption next year.
You said "massive eruption."
Hey, quit the chatter.
Hey, why don't you guys kiss?
Hey, why don't you guys kiss?
You know. Make out with each other.
You know. Make out with each other.
All right.
All right.
Wait. Why do you want us to kiss?
Deacon looks over at the camera. It's Ashley filming. PANIC! He slowly looks down at the person he and Fred are having sex with. He can barely look. It's Matt!
More sausage please.
CUT TOWhere the hell is Coop? There's no way I'm making out with Fred.
What's going on?
Deacon is talking about making out with No way. I'm holding the mike and that's I thought we were doing straight porn.
No way. I'm holding the mike and that's I thought we were doing straight porn.
I thought we were doing straight porn.
If you guys want to do gay porn, you still have to pay me.
Hang on. Relax. It was just this stupid dream I had.
You dreamed about making out with Fred?
No. Well, yes. And we were both having sex with you. But it was just a dream so let's forget it.
It's a "special effect." If you want this film to look amateurish, you're going to have to get someone else to do it.
Okay. Relax.
Come on. Let's do it already.
Matt starts his cheesy "projector light effect" and Coop takes a seat next to Ashley.
This summer tent-pole event-movie is making me so scared.
Hide your head down here and I'll tell you when it's safe to come up.
How's Naomi?
COOP 
Hey. Can I ask you a question?
The coiled cord to the massive light is burning a circular hole in the smouldering carpet.
Unplug the light!
Wait, it's hot!
Ashley and Coop run up the stairs. Fred isn't far behind.
Quick, get the fire extinguisher!
Where is it?
Over there!
It's not working!
Oh. Me and Fred used it when we wrote the foamy cat fight script last week.
Large load.
are standing in the doorway to the kitchen with Max, whose arm is in a splint. Max stares at Ashley. She covers herself some more. Then, Deacon and Matt enter the kitchen from downstairs.
Nice rack.
Mom! Dad! What are you doing home?
Max sprained his wrist at soccer practice. What is going on here?
Well, I'm sure there's a reasonable explanation why there's a naked girl in our kitchen. Right, Deacon?
I, uh.
I, uh.
I'm Deacon's girlfriend. Ashley.
Yes, my girlfriend.
And what were you doing with your clothes off in my kitchen?
We were having a make out party.
Where are the other girls?
Their dates stood them up?
Yeah. My date wasn't feeling well.
Mine has mono. From too much making out. With me.
What's that smell?
We had a small fire, Mrs. Lewis. I tipped over a candle. It was to set the right A fire? Let me see the damage.
A fire? Let me see the damage.
Dad, don't. Let me take responsibility. We'll pay to have it fixed.
Damn right you will.
Well, Ashley. I didn't know Deacon even had a girlfriend.
Maybe you can join us for dinner tonight.
I think Ashley's busy tonight
Oh, shit.
Okay, then.
So get this. Johnson comes up to me today and he's all like "where's the ND-90's?" I'm like, "Johnson, they discontinued the ND-90 like six weeks ago." I've been telling this guy.
Johnson sounds like a moron.
Mr. Lewis is psyched that someone is finally paying attention to him. Mrs. Lewis doesn't like the way he's looking at her.
So, Ashley. If I could ask you a personal question, exactly how old are you?
Nineteen. But I tell people eighteen.
Isn't that funny?
Deacon open the door. It's Naomi.
What are you doing here?
I thought I'd come by and surprise you. Maybe we could hang out in your bedroom.
Now's not a good time.
What's wrong?
Nothing. Let's talk later.
Hi, Mrs. Lewis. I'm Naomi. I'm Deacon's
His girlfriend?
Deacon has two girlfriends?
Shut up, Max!
What do you mean? What's going on?
Deacon's other girlfriend is having dinner with us.
I can explain.
This is Deacon's other girlfriend, FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT 73. Dad's beaming with pride. The two girls size each other up.
His other girlfriend?
Oh, my God. How old are you, you slut?
Oh, my God. How old are you, you slut?
I thought you were a nice guy.
I thought you were a nice guy.
You need to have a talk with him. He could be having S-E-X.
I need to give him a goddamn medal.
Deacon watches Naomi go. Ashley consoles him.
Let her go.
Are you insane? I've been fantasizing about Naomi Feldman since the seventh Fantasy and reality are two different things, Deacon. Don't fall in love with who you think she is. You have to be sure you love the real person.
Fantasy and reality are two different things, Deacon. Don't fall in love with who you think she is. You have to be sure you love the real person.
So what should I do?
Go after her then. Or don't. Whatever.
She's a porno actress in your porno film. She had to pretend to be your girlfriend because she ran upstairs naked when the light caused a fire. And you've never had sex with her or even kissed her.
Yeah, pretty much.
Not necessarily.
No, I don't think that's a good idea.
Why not? I'm curious. I've never seen a porno movie actually being made.
Matt and Fred will get really mad. We're not supposed to tell anyone.
Tell them I'm a . creative consultant. For the female point of view.
No offense, but the female point of view doesn't really matter in these films.
This After School Special shit is amazing. They're getting a ton of hits off their stupid stories and they don't even have any product.
Are you sure those are the guys from the Pretty Kitty?
It's the same guys. Bingo. I just found out where they live.
Give me that address. I'm gonna teach these assholes a little lesson about the adult film business.
He pops back in.
Oh, yeah. Thanks Mike.
Goddamn amateurs. Think they can screw with Vic Ramalot.
Let's do this.
You Greitzer?
Yes. That's me.
Ronald J. Greitzer?
Yes. That's right.
Oh, I get it. Brilliant. You're not even a fuckin' kid.
What are you doing?
What am I doing? I'm retiring you from the porno business. Permanently. Yes. Yes. Please don't hurt me.
Yes. Yes. Please don't hurt me.
No more sweet young pussy, no more hot school-girl fantasies, no more goddamn pornos "for virgins by virgins." You got
Please don't hurt my husband!
FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT 77.
I'm sorry! I'll never rent them again! It was only that one time my wife was at her sister's! Please! I promise you!
You rented a dirty movie? You told me it was Jakob the Liar!
What? I shouldn't be entitled to a little joy in life?
Now look at the trouble you've brought to this house.
And I'm supposed to know the Religious Right would come after me for renting an adult film?
Five hundred dollars a night?
Yeah, but if you can break into films, like these ones, you can get featured dancing gigs and make ten times that No way.
No way.
Seriously. If these guys ever get their act together.
What is she doing here?
Naomi is my girlfriend.
Jesus, Deacon. Didn't you see that Beatles documentary on the History Channel? You're pulling a Yoko Ono on us.
Fine. Whatever. Let's get started. I'm sure she'll be really helpful.
Fine. Whatever. Let's get started. I'm sure she'll be really helpful.
Oh, hey, Naomi.
Hey, Coop. Are you helping these guys, Sort of.
Sort of.
Okay, people. Places everybody. Let's try to do this with a little heart, okay? And
This quadratic equation is so hard.
Well, maybe we should just stick to long
Wait a second. Cut. This is all wrong. She wouldn't be fantasizing about some He's not a geek. He's the Math Team No, he should be really well-dressed, and maybe he's a foreign exchange student from Portugal.
He's not a geek. He's the Math Team No, he should be really well-dressed, and maybe he's a foreign exchange student from Portugal.
No, he should be really well-dressed, and maybe he's a foreign exchange student from Portugal.
Um, and the director is the only one who's allowed to say "cut."
Who cares, Naomi?
Deacon agrees with me, don't you?
Dudes, come on. My nuts are getting cold.
I'm out of here.
Shut up, Coop. This is important.
And my nuts aren't?
Are you okay?
I'm sorry, Ashley.
Look. This is ridiculous. Who does dress rehearsals for a porno shoot?
Oh, sure. Why don't we throw out the script while we're at it and "improvise."
Guys, I appreciate the money. It's nice to get paid for sitting around doing nothing, but this isn't helping my career. I've got no footage for my reel.
Where are you going?
She leaves.
Ashley, wait. I'm sorry. Ashley!
Now what are we going to do? Your "girlfriend" ruined everything.
Coop's the one that smacked her.
Besides, if you losers knew anything about women, we wouldn't have this Who asked you?
Who asked you?
I don't have to take this.
Mrs. Lewis!
What are you doing here?
I, um, I'm. I'm going where you're To yoga class?
To yoga class?
Yes. Exactly.
I haven't seen you in class before.
It's my first time.
Well, that's great, Ashley. You're really going to love it.
is essentially folded in half, her legs pinned well beyond her ears. She's obviously been in this position before.
You're quite flexible, Ashley.
Yeah, people tell me that all the time. You know, I could teach you some of those moves. Mr. Lewis would love it.
Oh. Okay. Maybe later. Listen, Ashley. I want to ask you something. personal. About you and Deacon.
Uh huh.
You know Deacon is only seventeen.
Uh huh.
Right. So I was just wondering. You know. If you and Deacon. Well, if Deacon and you were.
Um, no.
Good. Good. That's very good.
Listen, Mrs. Lewis. You don't have to worry about Deacon. He's a good kid. If you just let him make his own mistakes in life, he's going to turn out fine.
So, do you have anything?
Like what?
You know. Protection.
Oh. Oh yeah. Of course.
Don't you want to?
Of course I do.
Then what's the problem?
It's my first time.
That's okay. Just go slow.
I don't know. It was weird. Is it supposed to be so weird?
Of course it was weird. True love can only exist between two women.
Of course I do.
Your heart is telling you that you don't. And I think it's time you start listening to your heart.
Thanks, Dave.
He turns to leave just as another GUY  comes up to Dave with a pad of paper.
What's it for?
What did you just say?
Did you say "After School Special"?
What are we doing here?
What? I thought you might want some new I don't need any new clothes.
I don't need any new clothes.
And guess what? I booked facials for us at the Serenity Spa.
Naomi. Wait. Stop.
What's wrong?
I have to meet up with Matt and Fred this afternoon. I already blew them off Deacon, you don't have to hang out with those guys any more. Besides, you really need a facial. And I mean, I thought we could spend the day together. You know, after last night.
Deacon, you don't have to hang out with those guys any more. Besides, you really need a facial. And I mean, I thought we could spend the day together. You know, after last night.
But what about Matt and Fred?
Well what about me?
What's going on? Are we going to find another girl? Matt and I have been talking.
Matt and I have been talking.
Yeah. About what?
We want to make this movie.
I know. I do, too.
No, Deacon. We want to make the movie we wrote. We want to make it without you.
Okay. I know what this is about, guys. I'm sorry about Naomi.
That's not the problem, Deacon.
Then what is it?
I thought this was about us having fun and doing something crazy together. But as soon as you got what you wanted, you blew us off.
You don't understand.
Do you even like her?
Fine. Go ahead without me.
Matt and Fred get up and leave.
So, Deacon. How'd you think you did on your midterms?
I found a dead bird on the soccer field. Its head was missing.
I found a dead bird on the soccer field. Its head was missing.
I have to go back to the office tonight. Johnson screwed the pooch again.
88 INT. DEACON'S HOUSE - GARAGE - NIGHT 88
90 INT. THE PRETTY KITTY CLUB - BACKSTAGE - NIGHT 90
Ash, you ready? You're up now.
Hello, naughty school girl whom I've never met before.
You, too, are someone whose kitchen I've never been in.
You get everything done at work?
Yeah. All set.
Oh, guess who I ran into? Deacon's girlfriend, Ashley.
Where did you see Ashley?
Over on Industrial Way.
You were on Industrial?
You know, she is so flexible. It's really amazing some of the positions that girl can twist herself into.
MRS. LEWIS
She even offered to teach me. So I could move like that.
Yeah, that would be great! I mean, if you're into that.
Maybe. I like her. I know she's a little older, but I think she's good for Deacon.
You do?
So, what did you want to talk to us I wanted to say I'm sorry.
I wanted to say I'm sorry.
For what?
For blowing you guys off.
That's okay, Deacon.
No, it's not. It's just sometimes I feel like the whole world is passing us by and we're just sitting still. I don't know. Anyway, I'm sorry.
You know, you can be a real dick
Naomi and I did it the other night.
No way!
You're kidding, right?
No, it's true.
How was it?
Good. At first. But then I kept thinking about all the pornos. Trying to hit the right spots, positions. I don't know. After a while it kind of seemed like I find that extremely difficult to
I find that extremely difficult to
So what now? Do we make this thing?
I don't know. Maybe we should just call it quits.
What are you doing here?
I need you.
I need you to make this movie. For my Well, actually we were
I need you to make this movie. For my Well, actually we were
Well, actually we were
Ooh, look. An eyelash.
So, I'm thinking about getting into You have any tips on how to break in?
You have any tips on how to break in?
You have any tips on how to break in?
Uh, no. Not really. Acting classes, I Really? I didn't think there was a lot of acting in those films.
Really? I didn't think there was a lot of acting in those films.
Well, I guess it kind of depends.
You think you could get me an audition?
For what?
Come on. How long have I been cutting your hair?
Since I was like eight.
I know who you are. Don't worry. Your secret's safe. Come on. I just want to make one film to see what it's like.
That's great. But how can I help you?
Oh, I get it. You help me, I have to help you. That's how it works. Okay.
What're you Oh, God!
No, no, it's a municipal bond fund.
But what about the capital gains?
Sure there's short term capital gains, but the dividends are tax free.
State and federal?
Hey, guys. I hope you don't mind, Plantain and Baxter want to be in the movie, too.
Hey! Mr. Runningbear!
Ira, I have something important to tell What is it?
What is it?
This prom is making me so hot. I'm ready to lose my virginity to you tonight.
My dress is ruined!
I'm so sorry, Miss Jorgensen. What are we going to do?
That was the best prom ever.
You can say that again.
MATT 
Hi, how are you?
Hi, how are you?
Good. Good. How was France?
It was so fun. We just got back yesterday. The school totally screwed up my class schedule.
So, how's John Baldwin?
Who told you about that?
Everybody knows.
Well everybody is a liar. I never did it with John Baldwin.
You didn't?
Jesus, Deacon. I don't even know him. It's not like it was with us.
How does it look?
How does it look?
It looks great. It's the best porno film I've ever made.
So what's the problem?
Are you done with it?
Well, I cut together some footage to give to Ashley for her reel, but I don't think I can finish this film.
Why not?
I can't even watch it. Every time I turn it on, I keep thinking about that tuna fish sandwich and Coop farting all day That was pretty gross.
That was pretty gross.
That's just it. The movie looks great, but seeing everything else all the disgusting, nasty stuff that's what's taken all the fun out of it. And I just don't want to do it any more.
Great. I knew it. I knew you couldn't handle this.
Take it easy, Fred.
No, I knew that when it came down to it, Matt would wuss out.
You know what? Fuck you, Fred. You're the wuss here. At least I don't have to whack off every time I see a girl in the
Shut up, Matt.
No, you shut up! For once in your life, be a man and admit this movie was a Why don't you make me?
Why don't you make me?
No. Matt's right. This movie was a FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT 99.
What are you talking about? This whole thing was your idea.
Come on, Fred. Didn't you think this movie was going to be . I don't know,
How long have you guys known about the bathroom thing?
If you didn't like making the movie, why didn't you say something?
I don't know. I thought you guys were having fun. I didn't want to be the wuss.
The Aerostar's not so bad.
What about the money and the power and the women? What about Tony Montana?
Scar Face is just a stupid movie, Fred.
Hey, guys. Great party.
I've got some big news. I sent the reel to Vivid and they want to fly me and Coop to L.A. to talk about a contract.
I've got some big news. I sent the reel to Vivid and they want to fly me and Coop to L.A. to talk about a contract.
Wow. That's great, Ashley.
Deacon hugs her.
Hang on, guys. I'll be right back.
Hey, Ashley. Can I ask you a question?
Do you think me and Matt will ever get Are you kidding? Come on, guys. You have it made. You're smart, funny, fun to be with. In a couple of years, girls will be dying to meet men like you.
Do you think me and Matt will ever get Are you kidding? Come on, guys. You have it made. You're smart, funny, fun to be with. In a couple of years, girls will be dying to meet men like you.
Are you kidding? Come on, guys. You have it made. You're smart, funny, fun to be with. In a couple of years, girls will be dying to meet men like you.
Well, no. Popular, good looking guys always get the girls. Hey, what was I supposed to say?
Well, no. Popular, good looking guys always get the girls. Hey, what was I supposed to say?
Hey, guys. Great party.
Hey, you're not on the list, dude.
Plantain kisses him, while nonchalantly grabbing his crotch.
Plantain kisses him, while nonchalantly grabbing his crotch.
Come on. You don't need to wait in this line. Deacon and the guys are already
I can't believe Naomi dumped Jake for Deacon Lewis.
Let me tell you something about Deacon. That boy is amazing in bed.
And you are.?
Ashley. Deacon's ex.
Seriously. Have your boyfriends ever given you an orgasm?
Seriously. Have your boyfriends ever given you an orgasm?
I think so. Have you ever felt so completely satisfied in bed that you just wanted to sleep for a week?
I think so. Have you ever felt so completely satisfied in bed that you just wanted to sleep for a week?
Have you ever felt so completely satisfied in bed that you just wanted to sleep for a week?
You're wasting your time giving those Neanderthals blowjobs. I mean, they'll probably wind up unemployed wife beaters So, are Deacon's friends seeing anybody?
So, are Deacon's friends seeing anybody?
Matt and Fred? I don't think so. But if you're interested, you better move fast. Those guys know how to do this thing .
How's Naomi?
I don't know. Good, I guess.
I thought she was your fantasy girl.
Yeah. She was.
You're gonna dump her.
I don't want to. I don't know. It's not like it was when I was with Rachael. Rachael and I used to talk about stuff. We just, I don't know, connected.
Very good, Deacon.
What do you mean?
Oh, nothing. I guess I'm just glad that you finally figured it out.
Yeah, I guess I did. So I have to do this, don't I?
I guess. Or not. Whatever.
There's something I want to talk to you I've been thinking. Maybe we should see other people.
I've been thinking. Maybe we should see other people.
I've been thinking. Maybe we should see other people.
Well, I mean, we don't really have anything in common. And we don't really even get along.
Well, I mean, we don't really have anything in common. And we don't really even get along.
You're breaking up with me? Can we still have sex?
Listen to what I'm saying, Naomi.
The only reason I went out with you was because I thought you were a nice guy. And now you're breaking up with me?
Yeah. I guess so.
If you tell anybody about this. I have a reputation.
I won't. You can tell people you dumped me if you want.
Sure. What do I care?
Sure. What do I care?
You see? You are a nice guy.
Just don't tell anyone about the movies. All right?
No one's listening to you, Jake. Give it a rest.
Oh, really, skidmarks? I know someone who will believe me. Your parents.
The web site is in someone else's name. All our records are encrypted. There's no tracing it to us, jerk off.
Oh, really? Well, good thing I took the tape of Ashley masturbating in your basement. When they see that, they'll see what kind of movies their perfect little Deacon is making.
Did you make a copy of it?
You sent the original tape to my parents?
You sent the original tape to my parents?
You know, Jake, you're a real dick!
You know, Jake, you're a real dick!
You should probably avoid pissing her Noted. Guys. We've got a problem.
You should probably avoid pissing her Noted. Guys. We've got a problem.
Noted. Guys. We've got a problem.
Too bad you're not going to be able to use it any more.
Too bad you're not going to be able to use it any more.
Who the hell are you?
The competition. And who the hell are you, coming into my town, paying girls double what I'm paying them? This stupid After School Special shit is cutting into my business. So now I'm putting you out of business.
Please don't kill us, Mr. Porno Man.
Relax. We're not going to kill you.
We're going to cut your balls off.
The guys freak out, but Mike's gun keeps them in place.
( reWhy me? It was all Deacon's idea!
Okay. Do the leader kid.
Okay. Do the leader kid.
Okay. Do the leader kid.
Quit squirming. It hurts a lot more if you struggle.
Wait! Wait! Wait!
Come on, kid. Take it like a man.
We've got pre-orders!
What did you say?
We pre-sold copies of our video.
How many? Fifty? A hundred?
No. Sixty-three thousand, two hundred That's a lot of product, Vic.
That's a lot of product, Vic.
That's a lot of product, Vic.
We've got orders from all over the world.
We'll give you the website if you let us
Okay, so what's your cut?
What except? There's no except!
What except? There's no except!
What except? There's no except!
Except you promise to supply us with quality porn free of charge.
No, Matt!
No, Matt!
And you have to maintain the artistic vision of After School Special.
And what's that?
The key is to try and remember what it was like before you had sex. What did you used to fantasize about? A math teacher who bends over a little too far. The door to the girls' locker room open just a sliver. Going over to visit your friend and catching his mother coming out of the Not you. Deacon's mom.
Not you. Deacon's mom.
Not you. Deacon's mom.
Oh yeah. I've been there.
Deacon? Are you in here?
Okay. We've got a deal, but you gotta give me all your master tapes. And kid. If you ever need a job, give me a call.
Okay. We've got a deal, but you gotta give me all your master tapes. And kid. If you ever need a job, give me a call.
It's been a pleasure doing business with you, Mr. .
Ramalot. Vic Ramalot.
Good name.
The guys savor the moment, then simultaneously realize the clock's still ticking. They run!
Did you go through the mail today?
Not yet. I'll go get it.
It's a minivan! It can't go that fast!
It's a minivan! It can't go that fast!
Looking for something in the mail, No, I just
No, I just
Maybe something you'd rather not have us
Mom, Dad.
It's too late, Deacon.
MRS. LEWIS
We just want you to know how deeply disappointed we are in you.
I can explain.
Explain? Explain?
If you'll just give me a chance.
How are you going to explain this?
How did you manage to get a "C" in
Let alone two
Is that what this is about? My biology class? It's just a stupid midterm grade.
I don't like your tone, mister.
Mom, Dad. I'm seventeen now. I'm driving. I've got a girlfriend. Well, actually, we broke up. But you guys treat me like a kid. Is it too much to ask for to be a normal teenager with a normal life?
You broke up with Ashley?
No. Naomi. Look. I just want to have fun with my friends, okay?
Okay, then. Just make sure you don't repeat this performance on your finals.
I won't.
Pretty much everything. Mr. Slam.
Did you know all along?
Are you kidding? Who do you think made the first pre-order?
I'm really nervous.
My advice is to go slow. If you feel you're losing control, just try to relax. Don't worry. It's easier than it looks.
Fred gets his picture taken.
What do you think?
This is for me?
Are you crazy? It's for me. You want a new car, you get an after school job.
But we are letting you have the Aerostar. It may not be "cool," but it'll get you where you're going.
Thanks, guys. Really.
We're going away for the weekend. Your father surprised me!
It's not even in focus. This is really shoddy work.
Too bad we burned the film. You could have submitted it as your sample.
Good idea, Balls.
So, I guess we all got what we deserved. No money, no power, no women.
Tony Montana would be pissed.
Speak for yourself, guys.
Hey, guys. Deacon.
Hey, guys. Hey, Deacon. I heard Naomi broke up with you.
Yeah. But I think it worked out better this way.
Hey, Fred. I hear you know a thing or two about giving women pleasure.
No, I don't.
We should go out some time.
Maybe all four of us could go out.
That could work, you know, depending on my schedule.
Cool. So call me.
Watch where you're going, sphincter boy.
I thought I told you not to call me that What are you going to do about it?
What are you going to do about it?
Some people never learn.
I've got a tiny pee-pee? I'm a premature
Stop it! Stop the video!
You probably shouldn't have mailed that tape back to us.
You know, guys, I've been thinking about What's that?
What's that?
About how making the movie didn't turn out to be so fun. I think I figured out
FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT 117. The guys smile and dial the combinations on their lockers. In the background, Jake is still on the ground crying. We TRACK through the hallway, outside.
I think he's got something there. Making that movie felt like we were tampering with forces we couldn't possibly Exactly. The fun part about high school is unravelling the mystery of what's going to happen next.
Exactly. The fun part about high school is unravelling the mystery of what's going to happen next.
FADE INWhy do they always have to show the guy's To make you think you can get girls as hot as her. It's a basic rule of porno.
To make you think you can get girls as hot as her. It's a basic rule of porno.
Hey. Isn't that our basement?
WritersWritten by
We hear a MAN GASPING softly. Rhythmically. A LUMINOUS PALE SHAPE slowly forms out of the searing whiteness. Gradually we realize we're moving across the ALABASTER BODY of a WOMAN. Her skin translucent.
What's wrong?
Anna leans down and picks up her RED SLIP from the floor.

.it's like fucking a corpse.
Shit. I'm sorry. That was
Anna. I'm sorry. That was a stupid thing to say. But you know sometimes. sometimes it's like you're not here anymore. Like you're somewhere else.
Is this about us?
her head bowed as she lets the water wash over her.
It's not about us.
I don't know.
I'm happy.
her nose is bleeding. She touches her lips. Looks impassively at the blood on her fingertips. The SOUND OF WATER carries into the next scene.
The Antique Carlisle. Solid cherry. Hand rubbed satin finish. Tufted sovereign interior. Eternal-Rest adjustable mattress with matching pillow.
Or perhaps the Aegean? Solid bronze exterior. Hand brushed finish with Grecian bronze highlights.
The Antique Carlisle. Definitely the Antique Carlisle.
Excellent choice.
An antique coffin for an antique lady. We suit each other.

Mrs. Ayres?
I'm sorry. Yes. A private visitation.
It's different every time. Each person dies in their own way.
Hey. Jack-off!
He must be deaf.
You deaf Jack-off?
Can't fucking speak either.
What's going on?
Nothing Miss Bryant.
Nothing Miss Bryant.
Nothing? The incubator didn't just fall by itself.
I tripped. It was an accident.
Show's over. Get to your classes.
I think it's dead.
No. The poor thing's just scared.
OK. Who took the last pepperoni?
Great. Broccoli. Who the fuck ordered broccoli?
Oh that's just disgusting.
What's wrong with vegetarian pizza? It's Pizza isn't supposed to be healthy.
Pizza isn't supposed to be healthy.
You ordering in another pizza?
Yeah. With wheatgrass and alfalfa sprouts.

Hi baby. I'm really sorry about this morning. I fucked up. I know.
I don't know Paul.
Please Anna. It took me weeks to get the Maybe we can change it to Thursday
No. It has to be tonight.
Nothing. Don't worry. I just need. I just want us to have dinner tonight.
PAUL  
And Anna. Everything's going to be fine.
I promise.

Is someone there?
Did I scare you Miss Bryant?
Did I scare you Miss Bryant?
It's locked.
Shouldn't you be home?
My mom's picking me up.
I didn't know the park was open yet.
My mom's friends with the manager. They're opening it specially for me.
Sounds like fun.
Yes. It will be fun.
Jack. Those boys. Do they bother you a lot?
You know you can always talk to me about it if you want to.
You sure you don't need a ride?
Well. I better run.
Where are you going?

Can I come?
No Jack. Funerals are very private I've never been to a funeral.
I've never been to a funeral.
It wouldn't be appropriate Jack. Anyway wouldn't your mom worry about you?

I'm sure she would. I'll see you tomorrow in class. Have a wonderful
Startling white. A stream of water flows into the sink. Then after a moment the spiralling clear water gradually turns a deep crimson red.
Yes Mother.
Terrible color.
Can I get you something to eat?
I'm not hungry.
You have to eat.
I don't have to do anything.
The doctor said
The doctor's an idiot. He doesn't know what he's talking about.
Why did you do it? Today of all days.
What have I done wrong this time?
You've forgotten haven't you?
No I haven't forgotten. The service isn't till six.
Then you've got plenty of time to wash it It's permanent. You can't wash it out.
It's permanent. You can't wash it out.
Then dye it back. You can't show up at the funeral looking like that. Like some I don't look
I don't look
Don't argue with me. Why are you constantly arguing with me?
Where are you going?
To do the washing up.
The sheets need changing. They haven't been changed in months.
I changed them Monday.
You weren't here Monday. You never sleep at home anymore. What if something happened to me in the middle of the night?
Nothing is going to happen to you.


That's enough Mother!
That's it. Go and cry to Paul.
Go and bitch to Paul about your mean old
We have entrusted our brother James Hutton to God's mercy in sure and.
White roses. They were his favorite. How did you know?
They just seemed appropriate somehow.
He looks so peaceful. As if he's only
Mrs. Hutton. I'm so sorry.
Thank you Anna. You were always his favorite student.
How's your mother?
Fine. She sends her condolences.
You look tired dear.
No. I'm fine. Everything's fine.
James Hutton lies peacefully amongst the velvet trimming. Suddenly his LIPS PART. as he GASPS SOFTLY.
Anna steps back terrified. Stares at Hutton. His face serene again. It must have been her imagination. She glances up quickly. Embarrassed. Eliot's still observing her. He nods to her cordially.
Anna's by her car rummaging in a bag for her keys. Getting increasingly frustrated.
You scared the life out of me.
Your hair.
You don't like it.
I didn't say that. It's just very. red. I mean it's not really you is it?
Are you ready to order?
Yes. We'll have the duck.
What? You always have the duck here.
What? You always have the duck here.
I don't always have the duck.
I'll have the duck.
The duck is very good.
Let's not argue tonight. OK?
Anna takes a sip of wine.
This is good.
And looks very expensive.
Actually there is something I need to talk to you about.
I've been offered a transfer to head office in Chicago.
It'll mean more work of course. More responsibility. A lot of changes. But it's an incredible opportunity. I'd be crazy to turn it down. And.
You're going to leave me.
You could've just told me this morning. You didn't need to buy me off with an expensive meal.
Anna wait.
Why did you lie to me? You promised everything was going to be OK.

I'm not being ridiculous. Why do you always talk to me like I'm a small child?
See? There you go again. Do you know how irritating that is?
See? There you go again. Do you know how irritating that is?

Fuck you!
Keep your voice down, everyone's watching.
FUCK YOU! You're crazy. You know that? Just like your mother.
You're crazy. You know that? Just like your mother.
You're crazy. You know that? Just like your mother.
I'm nothing like my mother!

Paul's suddenly aware that everyone's looking at him. He quickly sits down. Drains his glass of wine. Furious.
Anna. Open the door. Please. I want you to come with me. I want to.
She hesitates. For a moment we think she might go back to him.
Anna swerves into the next lane. We hear the blaring horn from the car behind her.
OK. OK. I saw you.
Paul? You home yet? Can you pick up? I just don't want it to end like this.
Where am I?
You're in a funeral home.
You had a car accident. It was raining. You hit a truck loaded with metal pipes.
I'm not dead.
You were pronounced dead eight hours ago. Your blood no longer circulates through your body. Your brain cells are slowly dying. Your body's already decomposing.
I'm not dead.
It's Anna's death certificate.
You were dead on arrival. The attending physician signed here. .at 9.45 last night. I picked up your body from the hospital morgue at 12.10 this morning. I'm sorry.
You were dead on arrival. The attending physician signed here. .at 9.45 last night. I picked up your body from the hospital morgue at 12.10 this morning. I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
Who are you?
Don't touch me! Why are you touching me?
I'm preparing your body. You have to look beautiful for your funeral.
I'm not dead.
You all say the same thing.
The lights go off. O.S. the door clicks shut as it locks automatically behind Eliot.

Paul? You home yet? Can you pick up? I just don't want it to end like this.
It's the schoolteacher's. From the car crash. Should I answer it?
Someone's in for a surprise.
How many times do I have to tell you? You can't leave their stuff laying around. It should've been returned to the family.
I've been busy, OK.
What shall I do with this?
Where's the other one?
Just burn it. You can't send them back one shoe. It's not respectful.

Still no answer. Paul looks around. Notices the driveway's empty. He heads back to his car.

. the shell grows slowly.
Oh hi. I'm looking for Anna Bryant.

I'm Anna's. fiance. Paul Conran. I thought this was her class.
We had a little misunderstanding last She didn't come in today.

Did she call in sick?
She hasn't called in at all. It's not like her. She always calls in.
Please don't hurt me.

But I'm not dead.
Then why are you here?
Please. Just let me go. I won't go to the police. I won't tell anyone.
You're still in denial. You have to trust me. I'm only here to help you.
Don't be scared.
What are you doing?
This will relax your muscles. Stop the rigor mortis setting in so I can work on your body.

I'm so very sorry Mrs. Bryant. It's always so tragic when you lose a child.
I lost her years ago.
If you'd care to come to my office we can discuss the arrangements.
I want to see her.
But she hasn't been
I don't care. I want to see her.
Of course.
Ah. Forgive me.
As I said. I've only just started preparing her.
What's the point of preserving the body if the soul's already left?
No. The soul never leaves.
It's us who are left behind. It's us who Who's going to look after me now? Did you think about that?
I'll confirm the date with Father Graham this afternoon. Friday as you requested.
Just do what you think's best. It's just
Oh there is one thing.
Her hair. She was a brunette. I'd like it back to that color.
Her hair. She was a brunette. I'd like it back to that color.
Beatrice's car pulls up. Diane gets out. Pulls the wheelchair out of the car.
Paul grabs the flowers.
Mrs. Bryant.
Hi Diane. I need to talk to Anna.
What's wrong?
I think you better come in.
What happened? Where's Anna?

A car crash? When?

They said it happened just before 8.30.
But. we were at the restaurant.
You shouldn't have let her drive in that
No. She can't be dead. There must be some mistake.
There's no mistake. We just got back from the funeral home.

Why didn't you call me?
You took her away from me. I don't want you anywhere near her.
I must be in shock. That's all. It's just shock.

Paul stands in the middle of the driveway staring blankly at the Funeral Home.
Can I help you?
Mr. Deane?
My name's Conran. Paul Conran.
My name's Conran. Paul Conran.
Of course. The lawyer. It's a small town. In my line of work you get to know everyone eventually.
I'm Anna Bryant's fiance.
That's strange. She wasn't wearing an engagement ring.
Well not quite fiance.
I'm very sorry for your loss Mr. Conran.
I'd like to see her.
I'm afraid the viewing isn't until
I'd need to see her now. If that's I'm sorry. It's not possible. You're not family and
I'm sorry. It's not possible. You're not family and
Please. It'd only take a minute.
I understand. But
NO. YOU DON'T UNDERSTAND!

I tried to stop her. She didn't hear me.
Mr. Conran. There really is nothing I can do. I'm so sorry.
Who was that?
No one.
No one?
It was Paul.

Did you love him?
That's none of your business.
You weren't going to tell me Paul was here, were you?
Why not?
Why not?
Because it would only hurt you. You have to let go of the living. Just like they have to let go of you.
I don't believe you. Why are you doing this to me?
You're all the same. You all blame me for your death. As if it were my fault.
No. You drugged me. So my mother
The others. They just see you as a dead body on a slab. Only I can see you as you really are.
The others. They just see you as a dead body on a slab. Only I can see you as you really are.
You're crazy!
I'm a busy man. I don't have time for this.
Oh I nearly forgot. How tall are you?
He looks her up and down. Gauging her height.
Five seven.
I need to know how tall you are. For your coffin.
I need to know how tall you are. For your coffin.
He ignores her. The door CLICKS shut behind him.
Oh God. Please. I don't want to die.
Schoolteacher Dies in Tragic Car Crash.
You were supposed to pick me up from school yesterday.
I waited.

Is Tom in?
The captain just stepped out. He won't be long. You can wait in his office if you want.
Thanks. I'll just go and grab a coffee.

Come on.
You piece of shit.
Glass everywhere. Paul glances at the KITSCHY BOBBLEHEAD DOLL on the dashboard flecked with blood. He places his hands on the steering wheel. Suddenly he hears a strange noise. He looks up. The KITSCHY DOLL. Its head NODDING SLOWLY. Its smiling face now unnaturally sinister. Turning towards us until it abruptly stops. Staring straight at us. Paul looks at the doll transfixed. Just then a PALE WOMAN'S HAND slowly reaches through the window. and touches Paul's shoulder. He jumps. Turns. ANNA stands by the car. Staring blankly at him. The color drains from Paul's face.
Paul gets out awkwardly. He can't look Tom in the eye.
You OK?

I just found out. I'm so sorry Paul. If you need anything
I need to see Anna.

The funeral director won't let me see her Tom. He says I'm not family. Can you talk to him? Put some pressure on him.
I can't do that.
Tom. You're my friend.
Paul. I can't do it.
You sure you're OK?
I fucked up.
Paul. It was an accident. You should get some rest. Let me drive you home.
I always fuck everything up.
Eliot opens a cabinet full of boxes of hair dye with photographs of smiling women. As he prepares the dye he looks across at Anna. She's staring at something behind him. Eliot turns. Sees the uncovered body of the Old Woman on the gurney. He quickly walks over. Carefully pulls the white sheet over the Old Woman.
Who is she?
Mrs. Whitehall.
You shouldn't be afraid of her. The dead can't harm the dead.

Stay where you are.
Give me the scissors. I only want to help you.
Don't come any closer. I swear to God I'll kill you.

Go on.
For a moment we think she might do it. But then she wavers.
What are you waiting for?
I'm breathing! Look. I'm still alive!
You think you're still alive because you're still attached to life. It's normal. You're just imagining you still have symptoms of life.
Maybe I was in some kind of coma. The doctors made a mistake. They're always making mistakes.
You died. Everyone dies.
How can I be dead if we're talking?
We're talking not because you're alive. But because I have a gift.
To help them make the transition.
To help them make the transition.
Is this what happens when you die?
It depends on how you lived your life.
What do you mean?
Not everyone needs my help. Some let go as soon as their body dies. Others don't let go until long after they're in the grave.
Am I a ghost? Is that why I'm here?
You're here so I can bury you.
Come. We've wasted enough time already.

You're a corpse. Your opinion doesn't count anymore.
But I can breathe. I must be alive.
You people. You all think that if you breathe, shit, piss you're alive.
You clutch onto life as if your life was worth clutching onto. Was your life worth clutching onto Anna?
Was it? Maybe you died a long time ago.
I have to tell you I'm surprised you're still arguing with me. You don't have much time left. Look. She's accepted her death. Her life has been examined. She has no more regrets. And now she's at peace. She used her time well. You still have so much to learn.
I have nothing to learn!
Are you sure?
Your funeral's in three days. Soon you'll be enclosed in a coffin. Then buried in the ground. No-one will hear you then. No-one will talk to you there.
Are you cold?
I'm so cold.
You had a long life.
You had a long life.
You look so peaceful.
I'm scared. I'm so scared.
The music's strangely distorted now. Almost silent. As if we were inside Paul's head.
Anna reaches forward. Her hand disappears into the thick blackness. She snatches her hand back. Scared. Then. .a CHILD'S HAND darts out of the darkness. Grabs Anna's wrist. Pulling her in with surprising strength. Anna struggles to free herself. But the hand drags her deeper into the darkness. The door slams shut behind her.
Who are you?
You promised me so many things.
I am you. I've been waiting for you. You shouldn't have disappointed me.
You're not ready.
The Old Woman. Her long hair braided. She looks serene.
Can I help you?
Then perhaps you can help me. Could you throw these away for me?
Eliot turns and arranges fresh flowers in the vase.
as he looks at the wilted flowers. He crushes a petal then sniffs his fingers.
Jack looks up. Eliot's watching him carefully.
They belong in the garbage.
I've seen you round here before.
Did you know Mrs. Whitehall?
I thought it was Miss Bryant's funeral.
Ah. Miss Bryant. No. Her funeral's not until Friday.
Where is she now?
She's downstairs.
Why? Because she's not ready.
Why? Because she's not ready.

And you are?
Jack holds out his hand. A serious look on his face. Eliot's amused. He shakes Jack's hand.
Well Jack. What did you think?
About what?
Mrs. Whitehall's funeral. Did you find it interesting?

Oh. I see.
Are all funerals the same?
No Jack. They're never the same. Each one is special. The dead always speak to us in different ways.

It was a pleasure talking to you Jack.

WHY DID YOU DO THIS?
Is this the afterlife? Am I in heaven? Or am I in hell?
The door.

I used to believe in God. I thought I'd see him when I died. Instead I saw you.

You'll be at peace soon. I promise.
She lets out a DESPONDENT SIGH. The SIGH carries into the next scene.
Anna stands in front of the shower with her back to him. She slips off her bathrobe and hangs it on a hook. Then her hand moves to her chest. There's a STRANGE WET SUCKING sound. .as Anna rips out her heart and hangs it casually on the hook next to her bathrobe.



What's that?
It's your dress. For your funeral. Your mother brought it round this morning.
This isn't my dress. This is my mother's dress! It was supposed to be for her funeral. Why has she given it to me?
Eliot looks at it for a moment. Then glances over at Anna. She's still staring at the dress. He opens a drawer beneath the counter. It's full of rosaries and printed Holy cards. He quickly drops the rosary into the drawer. Closes it. Then turns back to Anna.
It should have been her not me. She was the one dying. Not me.
I'm not ready to die.
Why are you still struggling?

There's nothing out there for you
as he gets up and turns to Anna.
Anna looks at him calmly. We can't tell if she managed to get his keys or not. Eliot pulls on his jacket and wheels the gurney through the door. He steps back into the room. Nudges the door stop away with his foot.
I'll be back soon.

Anna looks around desperately. Sees a tray of instruments on the steel trolley. She scrambles over. Finds a pair of surgical pliers. She moves back to the door.
Thirty-four fifty.
Sir. Your change.

Eliot's van pulls up in front of the house.
Anna's trapped. We hear the CRUNCH of Eliot's footsteps on the gravel outside. Anna looks round desperately.
Eliot turns towards her. then at the last moment changes his mind. Heads in the opposite direction towards the viewing room.

Paul. Please pick up.

Leave me alone.
Suddenly the light comes on.
I'm the only one who can hear you now.
I'd be very careful if I were you. The dead have such a hold over the living.
What do you mean?
He still feels your presence. You're only causing him more pain. If you really loved him, you'd accept your death and let him go.
Then prove to me I'm really dead.
You people. You always need proof.
A PALE CADAVEROUS WOMAN. Sunken eyes. A blood-stained tear in the side of her RED SLIP.
Anna's stunned. She moves closer to the mirror. Touches her reflection through a thin layer of dust.
Why do I look like a corpse?
Because you are a corpse.
Anna stares blankly at her image in the mirror.
I am dead.
Eliot smiles. Like a father proud of his child's first step. Just then he notices something outside. We see a brief flicker of unease in Eliot's eyes.
Jack stands in the driveway holding his bicycle. Looking up at the Funeral Home. Transfixed.
Anna in her RED SLIP by the mirror. She looks frightening in the harsh light. Deathly pale. Like a ghost.
Strangely Jack isn't scared. He continues staring up at the window. Calmly. Curiously.

Bad dream?
I was dead. I had a car accident. Did you ever dream you were dead?
PAUL 
The light comes back on. Paul stands by the light switch.
What are you doing?
Ssh. Don't talk so loud. You'll wake the neighbors.
What neighbors? You don't have any
Did you ever love me Anna?
Aren't you going to pick it up?
Is it always like this?
What do you mean?
I thought when you died you wouldn't feel anything. You wouldn't feel any more pain. You wouldn't have to struggle anymore.
No. It's no problem at all.
I'll pick up the deceased from the hospital. Yes. This afternoon? That'll be fine. It's my pleasure Mr. Merano.
Well here he is. Frank Merano.
FRANK , the top half of his head has been flattened. His head split open. Grotesquely distorting his face.
Eliot glances at the Assistant with disdain. Signs the release form and hands the clipboard back to the Old Guy.

Thank you.

My name's Jack. Miss Bryant was my I saw her last night.
I was going past the funeral home. Miss Bryant stood there. In the window. In a red dress.

You think I'm lying. I'm not lying.
Jack. I'm in no mood
She needs your help.

I can't help her anymore.
Maybe you just don't love her anymore?
You little fuck. You think this is funny?
The CHILDREN stare at Paul. A SECURITY GUARD runs across talking into a walkie-talkie. Another TEACHER bends down.
Are you alright sweetie?
The police are on their way.
Jack. I'm sorry.
Step back sir.
You're lucky.
Am I?
They're not pressing charges.
What the hell's wrong with you? You're this close to fucking up your You know what he told me? He told me Anna's alive.
You know what he told me? He told me Anna's alive.
You didn't believe him did you?
No. Of course not.
It's just. I'm having these.
Nothing. Forget it.
Nothing. Forget it.
Frank stares back at her with open dull eyes. His face partially reconstructed with plaster of Paris.
Eliot smooths the wax over the plaster to give Frank's face a more natural texture. Then picks up a piece of wire with a fishhook-like barb at each end.
His mouth. To keep it closed.
Now his eyes.
Is this how you'll prepare my body?
No. There's no need. I had to rebuild his face. You're still beautiful.
Does he have family?
Yes. A brother. He's coming in later.
My mother. She didn't cry did she? When she came to see me?
I'm sorry.
And Paul?
It's not important anymore.
I need to know.

I knew he wouldn't. He always got upset when I cried. He said crying never helped.
You should rest.
You're getting weaker. It's almost time.
Can I ask you something?
Yes. Of course.
Why do we die?
To make life important.
The Old Woman, Mrs. Whitehall, lying in her casket.
Suddenly Eliot looks up sharply. As if someone had spoken to him.
Think nothing of it Mr. Houseman. No need to apologize.
I really enjoyed our time together.
A POLICE OFFICER stands at the front door. A SQUAD CAR parked on the driveway.
Eliot steps back. Calmly continues to dry his hands.
How can I help you Officer?
I'd like to see the body.
Frank Merano. I'm his brother. Vincent Merano? I called this morning.
Mr. Merano. Yes. Of course.
It's no trouble at all.
Your brother's here.
He looks so peaceful. You've done a beautiful job. Thank-you.
You should remember him as he used to be.
That's the schoolteacher isn't it?

Something's not right here.
Not right?
His smile. It was a bit more.
ON FRANK'S MOUTH Eliot manipulates Frank's lips.
ON FRANK'S MOUTH Eliot manipulates Frank's lips.
That's much better. Thank-you.
That's much better. Thank-you.
I'm glad I could help.
Do you mind if I have a couple of minutes alone with him?
No. Not at all. I'll wait outside.
I'm sorry. I didn't see.
Well. I guess I should be off then. I'll see you at the service. Thanks again.
I just told you. That was your brother. You had an accident. You're dead. Why do you people never listen to me?
No. It's not a gift. It's a curse.
I take care of each of you as if you were my children. I wash the shit from your bodies. I dress you. I do everything to make you look more beautiful than when you were alive. And what do you do?
You argue with me. As if it were my fault you're dead. As if I was to blame. What? You're not talking to me now? You don't want to?
From Eliot's reaction it seems as if Frank has started to talk again.
No. Now I don't want to talk to you
I'm off to school now.
Frank Merano lies nestled in the velvet interior. His face placid. No sign of the gaudy make-up.
Jack stares in fascination at Frank's body. He reaches into the casket. Touches Frank's cold hand. In the b.g. Eliot walks into the viewing room. He stops surprised. Watches Jack intently.


Jack turns quickly. Eliot stands over him.
You have empathy with the dead. You're drawn to them. Just as they're drawn to you. It's a rare gift.
I know you saw Anna.
You're frightened by it. I was scared too the first time. But you shouldn't be. Christ had the same gift. He raised Lazarus and spoke to the dead.

You've spoken to others?
You've spoken to others?
Yes. Many others.
Who was the first one you spoke to?
My mother. You shouldn't be afraid.
You shouldn't be afraid.
Your fingernails are dirty.
Your hands are normally so clean.
I've been gardening.
Is it sunny outside?
Yes. The tulips love the sun.
I miss the sun.
Are they your favorite flower?
Tulips? Yes. I think so.
I thought it'd be lilies. White lilies. Don't they symbolize death?
No. They symbolize purity.
And tulips?
Unrequited love.
Eliot softly washes her legs.
A beautiful flower. They need shade and lots of water.
What do they symbolize?


Roses are red, violets are blue.
No. Leave it on. It's so peaceful.
The light's turned green. The DRIVERS HONK angrily. Paul doesn't hear them. He places his hand against the plate glass. Stunned.
Mr. Conran. A pleasure.
I love gardening, but I'm not sure gardening loves me anymore.
She's not dead is she?

Someone saw her.
I'm sorry?
One of Anna's students. In the window.
Do you mean Jack?
You know him?
Of course I know him. He's often round here. He seems to have a strange fascination with death. He's eleven years old Mr. Conran. And like all young boys has a vivid imagination. Now if you'll excuse me
I don't think he imagined it. I think he really saw her.
Maybe you just want to believe he saw her.
Fuck you.
Mr. Conran!

Mr. Conran. I think you should leave before I call the police.
What's down there?
She's in here isn't she? Give me the
Give me the fucking key.
I'm here Anna.
I can't live without you.
Eliot gently puts his hand on Paul's shoulder.
Mr. Conran. She's dead.
I know what you're going through. Denial's a natural part of grieving.
She needs my help.
You can't help her anymore. Believe me.
I need you to issue a search warrant.

Paul. Sit down.

Just what the hell do you think you're doing? I got a call from Eliot Deane. Are you out of your fucking mind?
Anna's not dead Tom. He won't let me see her. He's keeping her there
Anna was in a car accident. Her car was wrecked Paul. Remember? It's downstairs.
She's not dead.
Here's the Coroner's report.
The paramedics phoned it in. They only checked for eye dilation and pulse. The doctor signed the death certificate without even seeing her body.

There was no EEG. Nothing. He could have drugged her to make it look like she was dead.
Drugged her? Are you serious?
There are drugs like that chief. Hydronium Bromide. Total paralysis within seconds. The heartbeat slows to almost nothing.
See? I'm telling you. She's not dead. The boy at school. Jack. He saw her.
She was on the slab. Dead.
I've seen dead bodies. Believe me, she was definitely dead.
I've seen dead bodies. Believe me, she was definitely dead.
Tom. Just go down there and check the place out.
On what grounds Paul? Do you have any No. But
No. But
Do you have anything?
I think she called me.
Called you?

Collect or long distance?
First you hit a fucking kid. Then you attack Deane. And now you're telling me your dead girlfriend called you? What the fuck's going on? You're loosing it Paul.
I know you feel guilty but you've got to pull yourself together.
Maybe you're right. But why won't he let me see her?
Look Paul. The funeral's tomorrow. You'll see her then. It'll help. It will give you closure. Trust me.
You said you could teach me.
It's only a hole in the ground. I'm digging it for
Miss Bryant.
Exactly. For Anna. She belongs here.
Because she's dead.
No. Because there's no life left in her.
Don't you see? I have no choice. I'm the only one who can see all these corpses. Wandering the earth aimlessly. All they do is piss and shit. Suffocating us with their stench. Doing nothing with their lives. Taking the air away from those who actually want to live. I have to bury them all. I have no choice.
You did well this morning.
This morning?
When Paul came. You did the right thing. You let him go.
He'll be all right now? Won't he?

Tomorrow's your funeral.
I told you. You only had three days.
I told you. You only had three days.
I told you to use your time well.
I need to. I have so many regrets. I have nothing but regrets.
That's why I'm here isn't it? To be
You're here to understand your life. So you can finally be at peace.
I wanted a different life.
Then why didn't you do anything about it?
No matter what I did everything just stayed the same. I'd wake up. I'd shower. Sit in the same traffic everyday on my way to work. Go home. Go to sleep. Then wake again.
What did you really want from life?
I just wanted to be happy.

I don't know. Don't you understand? That's the whole point. I don't know.
Yes you do! You're just too scared to admit it to yourself.
I don't want to talk about it anymore. I just want this to be over.
What did you want from life?
I don't fucking know!
WHAT DID YOU WANT ANNA? I WANTED LOVE! OK!


You had love. Paul loved you.
No. You don't understand. I was scared. I wanted to love but I didn't know how. I was.
When I was a child. I learnt that love. That when you love someone. You get hurt. So I learned not to love. That way no one could ever hurt me again.
I was always pushing Paul away. He thought I didn't love him.
Did you?
He was the only one I ever loved. But I never told him that. And then he stopped loving me.
What would you do if you had another
Well? Isn't this what you wanted?
Spit it out.
Spit it out.
INT. FUNERAL HOME. PREP ROOM - NIGHT Anna's eyes snap open. She's still in the Prep Room. She steps back from the doorway. Terrified.
I thought you were different. You all say you're scared of death. But the truth is you're more scared of life.
Paul strains to open the window when suddenly. he's caught in a circle of bright light. Paul turns quickly. A DARK FIGURE stands over him. Menacing.
What the fuck are you doing here?
I'm taking you home.
Don't be scared. It's better this way.
Her eyes still closed.
Eliot pauses. Too confused to look back at her.


You have to look beautiful for your
We glimpse the labelThis is how they'll all remember you.
This is how they'll all remember you.
Can I see myself for the last time?
Anna looks peaceful. Beautiful. Serene.
Is this the end?
Eliot glances anxiously at the fogged mirror, then at Anna.
You lied to me.
Anna. We've been through this before. You're just imagining
You lied to me.

.delicately closes Anna's eyelids.
Anna lies in an open casket. Her eyes closed. She can hear the DISTORTED VOICE of the Priest.
Eliot gestures to Beatrice. Diane wheels her to the casket. Beatrice looks at Anna for a moment, then touches the violets in Anna's hands.
Violets. They were her favorite flowers. How did you know?
Violets just seemed appropriate somehow.
Anna looks serene.
Paul takes out the ring box from his pocket. Gently slides the engagement ring onto Anna's stiff finger. Suddenly he looks alarmed. Turns quickly to Tom.

She's so cold.
I'm sorry Anna.
She's at peace now.
A drop of blood falls onto the polished wood.
Eliot stares at the blood for a moment. Takes out a pristine white handkerchief. Carefully wipes off the blood. Then places his hand on the coffin.

You sure you're going to be OK?
Yeah. Thanks Tom.
We pan slowly across the other photographs we saw before. But now we look at them differently. In some faces there is the glimmer of life. In some a despairing pleading look. In others passive resignation.
Eliot moves towards the window.
The dark cemetery. In the distance flickering candles illuminate Anna's grave.
They've said their good byes and gone back to their TV dinners and shopping malls. Thinking that this is never going to happen to them. Until it's their turn to be buried. Think about it Anna.
They've said their good byes and gone back to their TV dinners and shopping malls. Thinking that this is never going to happen to them. Until it's their turn to be buried. Think about it Anna.
.think about it while you still can.
You said she was alive.
I never said she was alive. I just said I saw her.
You need a ride?
OK. See you.
Mr. Conran?
Eliot stands in the window smiling at him.
Go to hell.

I know she wasn't dead.
Wasn't she?
Mr. Conran. You come to my Funeral Home, making wild accusations. You have no idea what happens when someone dies. What happens to their body. What happens to their soul.
Maybe she's still alive. You obviously don't believe a word I say. So why don't you go and find out for yourself Mr. Conran. Find out whether she's alive or dead.

You don't have much time left.
Please. Paul. You're not well.
Come on. Come on.
Paul looks through the front windshield. Nothing. He frowns. Where did the ambulance go?
We see the Funeral Home. Bone white in the moonlight. The cemetery next to it.
Anna. I'm here. Please God. Anna.
Baby. Thank God.
Baby. Thank God.
You came back for me.
I came back for you. You're safe now.


Paul looks round desperately. Runs between the stone crosses and statues of grieving angels searching for her.
Just then he glimpses SOMETHING MOVE among the trees. Runs over. Nothing. The cemetery is empty. The trees appear to SHIMMER for a moment. Paul shivers. Pulls his jacket around him. He doesn't notice the candles on Anna's grave behind him suddenly BLOW OUT.
Suddenly the interior light in his car comes on. Paul looks at the car nervously. He heads over to it. Apprehensive. Then. the car door slowly CLICKS open. Paul stops. Stares into the car. There's no one there.
Are we going home?
Or do you want to make love here?
Where did you go?

I love you. I always did.

It's only the scissors.
Scissors? What scissors?
Scissors. For your clothes. Eliot just put them on the table.
You're safe now. We're finally together.
Where am I?
You're in a funeral home.
I'm not dead.
You had a car accident. You swerved off the road. On the way to the cemetery. Hit a tree.
I saw Anna. You buried her alive.
I'm sorry Mr. Conran. You never made it to the cemetery. You never saw Anna. You're dead.
I'm not dead.
Your skull was crushed. Your spinal cord pulverized. Your brain cells are slowly dying. Your body's already decomposing.
I'm not dead.
You people. You all say the same thing.
