"JACOB'S LADDER": Bruce Joel Rubin
JERRY: Strong stuff.
ROD: ( to JACOB, a soldier squatting several yards away ) Hey, Professor, how many times can you shit in an hour?
GEORGE: Don't bug 'im.
DOUG: Where are those gooks already?
FRANK: Some offensive. I don't even think they're out there.
PAUL: Jesus, this grass is something else. JACOB SINGER returns to the group, pulling up his pants.
ROD: Why even bother to pull 'em up?
FRANK: You jackin' off out there again, huh Hey, get off his back.
PAUL: Hey, get off his back.
ROD: It's called philosophizing, right JACOB gives them the finger.
JACOB: Up yours, you adolescent scum. Mount your bayonets.
FRANK: ( frightened ) Oh shit!
PAUL: Gimme that joint!
ROD: Gimme that joint!
JERRY: Hey, something's wrong.
GEORGE: What is it?
JERRY: My head.
GEORGE: It's nerves. Take another toke. GEORGE reaches out, extending a joint. Suddenly he gasps and falls to the ground, his body convulsing uncontrollably. The others stand back, startled. JACOB grabs him and shoves a rifle barrel between his chattering teeth.
ROD: What's going on? Before anyone can answer JERRY grabs his head, screaming. He turns frantically in all directions.
JERRY: Help me! Help me!
PAUL: What the hell . ? In seconds JERRY is spinning wildly out of control, his head shaking into a terrific blur. He crashes into FRANK with the force of a truck. FRANK slams into the ground as all the air rushes from his lungs. He begins gasping and hyperventilating. His eyes grow wide and frenzied as he gulps for air. Fear and confusion sweep across his face. The MEN watch, horrified, as FRANK's terror escalates beyond reason into all- out panic. Suddenly FRANK begins howling. He lunges for his bayonet and, without warning, attacks the MEN around him.
PAUL: God Almighty! PAUL spins out of the way as FRANK's bayonet impales the ground. JACOB jumps on top of FRANK and wrestles him into the tall grass. PAUL rushes to his assistance. JACOB stares at FRANK's face as FRANK struggles beneath him. It is the face of a madman.
PAUL: Good God! What's happening? The sudden chaos is intensified by the sound of fighting erupting behind them. Guns crackle and bursts of light penetrate the darkening Behind you! Look out! This is it! The MEN spin around. PAUL panics and jumps to his feet, leaving JACOB alone with FRANK. FRANK's eyes burn with demonic force as he gathers his strength.
ROD: Behind you! Look out! This is it! The MEN spin around. PAUL panics and jumps to his feet, leaving JACOB alone with FRANK. FRANK's eyes burn with demonic force as he gathers his strength.
JACOB: Don't leave me. Dark figures, silhouetted by the setting sun, are storming at them. SOLDIERS squint to see. It is a horrifying vision.
PAUL: They're coming! Gunfire explodes on all sides. Suddenly PAUL flips out. He begins screaming uncontrollably, ripping at his clothes and skin. FRANK is struggling like four men and JACOB is weakening in his effort to restrain him. Bayonets glimmer in the exchange of fire. Bodies fall. More bodies keep coming. The first wave is upon them. ROD shoots into the air. Shadowy forms hurl forward screaming like banshees. ROD, squinting, jabs with his bayonet, piercing the belly of his attacker. Agonizing cries accompany his fall. ROD yanks the bayonet out and stabs again. In the midst of this madness FRANK shoots to his feet and slams the butt of his rifle into JACOB's back. There is a cracking sound. JACOB's eyes freeze with pain. His hands rush for his spine. As he spins around one of the ATTACKERS jams all eight inches of his bayonet blade into JACOB's stomach. JACOB screams. It is a loud and piercing wail. CUT ON THE SOUND OF THE SCREAM to a sudden rush through a long dark tunnel. There is a sense of enormous speed accelerating toward a brilliant light. The rush suggests a passage between life and death, but as the light bursts upon us we realize that we are passing through a SUBWAY STATION far below the city of NEW YORK.
JACOB: Excuse me, do you know if we've passed Nostrand Avenue yet? Excuse me. Look, I'm asking a simple question. Have we hit Nostrand Avenue? I fell I no from around here.
WOMAN: ( speaking with a Puerto Rican accent ) I no from around here.
JACOB: ( glad for a response ) Yeah, you and everyone else. JACOB walks to the other end of the car and sits down. The only other passenger is an OLD MAN lying asleep on the fiberglass bench. Occasionally his body shudders. It is the only sign of life in him. The train begins to slow down. JACOB peers out of the window. Nostrand Avenue signs appear. He is relieved. He gets up and grabs hold of the overhead bar. The OLD MAN shudders and stretches out on the seat. As he adjusts his position, tugging at his coat, JACOB catches a brief glimpse of something protruding from beneath the coat's hem. His eyes fixate on the spot, waiting for another look. There is a slight movement and it appears - a long, red, fleshy protuberance. The sight of it sends shivers up JACOB's spine. It looks strangely like a tail. Only the stopping of the train breaks JACOB's stare.
JACOB: Goddam it. He turns in a huff and hikes to the other end of the platform. As he approaches the far exit, his eyes widen. The gate there is also locked. His hands reach for his hips as he studies an impossible situation. CUT TO JACOB stepping cautiously onto the ladder going down to the tracks. A rat scampers by and he gasps.
JACOB: No way! He starts to climb back up the ladder but sees that there is nowhere else to go. He juts out his jaw and steps back down. JACOB is not comfortable on the tracks. He cannot see where he is stepping. His shoes slpash in unseen liquid which makes him grimace. The steel girders are coated in subway grime. The oily substance coats his hands as he reaches for support.
JACOB: Goddam fucking city! He wipes the grime on his postal uniform as he steps toward the center track. He reaches for another girder when it begins to vibrate. Two pinpoints of light hurl toward him. Then the noise arrives confirming his fear. A train is bearing down on him. JACOB looks frightened, not sure which way to go. He steps forward, up to his ankle in slime. He cannot tell which track the train is on. It is moving at phenomenal speed. The station is spinning. The train's lights merge into one brilliant intensity. In near panic JACOB jumps across the track as the train spins by. Its velocity blows his hair straight up as though it is standing on end. He clings to a pillar for support, gasping in short breaths. A few PEOPLE are staring at JACOB from the train. Their faces, pressed up against the glass, seem deformed. A lone figure waves at him from the rear window. The train bears them all away. Then it is quiet again. For a moment JACOB is afraid to move but slowly regains his composure. He continues to the other side of the tracks and stumbles up the ladder to the UPTOWN PLATFORM.
JACOB: Hey, is someone in there? There is no answer. JACOB stands silently for a moment, not sure what to do. He can hear whispering. He chews his lower lip nervously and then reaches for the door. It pushes open. The light from the station penetrates the darkness. He gasps. He sees a MAN tied naked to the stall with ANOTHER NAKED MAN grabbing quickly for his clothes. The BOUND MAN screams.
BOUND MAN: Fuck off! Mind your own business! A THIRD MAN spins out of the shadows, pointing a kinfe at JACOB's You cocksucker! Get outta here. The MAN's face is barely human. Before JACOB can even react the door slams shut. The lock engages. The crack of light reappears. JACOB can hear laughter coming from inside, followed by a scream. He backs away from the door. His face is white. JACOB turns with full fury and storms the gate. The chain gives wayto his anger. It flies apart and the gate flings open. He stands in amazement, observing the chain as it slides from between the bars and drops to the concrete below. The gate squeaks loudly as JACOB pushes it aside and clangs with an almost painful burst as he slams it shut.
MAN: You cocksucker! Get outta here. The MAN's face is barely human. Before JACOB can even react the door slams shut. The lock engages. The crack of light reappears. JACOB can hear laughter coming from inside, followed by a scream. He backs away from the door. His face is white. JACOB turns with full fury and storms the gate. The chain gives wayto his anger. It flies apart and the gate flings open. He stands in amazement, observing the chain as it slides from between the bars and drops to the concrete below. The gate squeaks loudly as JACOB pushes it aside and clangs with an almost painful burst as he slams it shut.
JACOB: What the hell did you do, move all the furniture?
JACOB: I didn't want to wake you.
JACOB: Where is the lamp?
JACOB: If I knew I wouldn't have to ask. What did you do? I was happy the way it was.
JACOB: Where to? JACOB crashes into it. A light suddenly goes on. JEZEBEL "JEZZIE" PIPKIN, 33, is standing in the BEDROOM door tying a man's terrycloth bathrobe around her waist. Although sleepy, disheveled, and not looking her best, it is obvious that JEZZIE is a beefy woman, juicy and That help?
JEZZIE: That help?
JACOB: ( nearly sprawled over the couch ) He pushes himself up.
JEZZIE: What do you think?
JACOB: What do you mean?
JEZZIE: The room!
JACOB: Oh God, Jezzie, ask me tomorrow.
JEZZIE: It is tomorrow. Four A.M. How come you're so late?
JACOB: Roberts didn't show up. What could I say? Besides, it's double time.
JEZZIE: ( seeing the grease on his uniform ) What happened to you?
JACOB: ( unbuttoning his shirt as he walks to the
BATHROOM ): Don't ask. JACOB steps into the BATHROOM and pulls at his clothes, leaving them in a pile on the floor. He reaches for the faucet and sends a stream of water pouding against the porcelain tub. JEZZIE enjoys JACOB's nakedness. She reaches out to his chest and squeezes one of his nipples. His body tenses slightly. JEZZIE drops her robe. They enter the shower together.
JACOB: Help me. Someone. Suddenly a flashlight beam can be seen in the distance. It dances around the bamboo trees and draws closer to JACOB. It is impossible to see who is carrying it. The light darts near the ground where JACOB is lying and then bursts directly into his eyes.
JEZZIE: You up?
JACOB: No. Have you seen my glasses?
JEZZIE: ( shaking her head ) Where'd you leave 'em?
JACOB: I don't know.
JEZZIE: Did you look around the headboard?
JACOB: ( wearily ) Jezzie, I can't see.
JEZZIE: ( she scans the shelf ) Maybe you left 'em in the bathroom. She leaves and returns moments later with his glasses and a large paper bag. She tosses them both onto the bed.
JACOB: ( he puts on his glasses and notices the bag ) What's that?
JEZZIE: Your kid dropped it off.
JACOB: Who? Jed?
JEZZIE: ( stooping to pick up the phone ) No. The little one.
JACOB: Eli. Why can't you remember their They're weird names.
JEZZIE: They're weird names.
JACOB: They're Biblical. They were prophets.
JEZZIE: Well, personally, I never went for church names.
JACOB: And where do you think Jezebel comes I don't let anybody call me that.
JEZZIE: I don't let anybody call me that.
JACOB: ( shaking his head ) You're a real heathen, you know that, Jezzie? Jesus, how did I ever get involved with such a ninny?
JEZZIE: You sold your soul, remember? That's what you told me.
JACOB: Yeah, but for what?
JEZZIE: A good lay.
JACOB: And look what I got.
JEZZIE: The best.
JACOB: I must have been out of my head.
JEZZIE: Jake, you are never out of your head!
JACOB: ( ignoring the criticism and reaching for the paper bag ) What's in here?
JEZZIE: Pictures. Your wife was gonna toss 'em so "what's his name" brought 'em over on his way to school. JACOB lifts the bag and pours the photographs onto the bed. There are hundreds of them. He examines them with growing delight.
JACOB: Look at these, will ya? I don't believe it. Jesus, these are fantastic. Look, here's my Dad . And here's my brother, when we were down in Florida.
JEZZIE: Lemme see.
JACOB: ( rummaging excitedly through the pile ) Here. Look. This is me and Sarah when I was still at City College.
JEZZIE: ( looking closely ) That's Sarah? ( she studies the photo ) I can see what you mean.
JACOB: Why you left.
JEZZIE: Why you left.
JACOB: What do you mean you can see?
JEZZIE: Look at her face. A real bitch.
JACOB: She looked good then.
JEZZIE: Not to me.
JACOB: Well, you didn't marry her. He digs through more photos. Suddenly he stops.
JEZZIE: What's wrong? To JEZZIE's surprise and his own, tears well up in his eyes. For a moment JACOB is unable to speak. He just stares at one of the photos. JEZZIE looks at the picture. It is an image of JACOB carrying a small child on his shoulders.
JEZZIE: Is that the one who died?
JACOB: ( nodding ) JEZZIE is silent. JACOB grabs a Kleenex and blows his nose.
JACOB: ( continuing ) Sorry. it just took me by surprise. I didn't expect to see him this morning . God, what I wouldn't . He was the cutest little guy. Like an angel, you know. He had this smile . ( choking up again ) Fuck, I don't even remember this Hiding his emotions, JACOB scrambles over the bed and reaches for a pair of pants. He pulls out his wallet and then carefully puts the photo of GABE inside. It joins photos of his two other boys. JEZZIE begins shoving the remaining pictures back into the paper bag.
JACOB: Wait. Don't.
JEZZIE: I don't like things that make you I just want to look . He reaches into the pile for other snapshots. We see an array of frozen moments, happy, unfocused, obscure. Suddenly he stops and stares at a yellowing snapshot.
JACOB: I just want to look . He reaches into the pile for other snapshots. We see an array of frozen moments, happy, unfocused, obscure. Suddenly he stops and stares at a yellowing snapshot.
JACOB: God, this is me! Look. It's dated right after I was What a kid. Cute, huh? So much JEZZIE surveys the scene.
JEZZIE: It's amazing, huh Jake? Your whole life . right in front of you. What a mess!
JACOB: Just gettin' rid of the garbage. JACOB and JEZZIE, both wearing postal uniforms, head for the ELEVATOR. They are surprised that it has arrived promptly. JEZZIE reaches out and playfully sticks her tongue into JACOB's ear. He pulls her into the ELEVATOR. They disappear, laughing, behind its closing doors.
JEZZIE: Just gettin' rid of the garbage. JACOB and JEZZIE, both wearing postal uniforms, head for the ELEVATOR. They are surprised that it has arrived promptly. JEZZIE reaches out and playfully sticks her tongue into JACOB's ear. He pulls her into the ELEVATOR. They disappear, laughing, behind its closing doors.
WOMAN: Where do you expect me to put those? I don't have any room. She tries clearing the counter, but it doesn't help.
WOMAN: ( continuing ) How 'bout over there? ( she points to a table ) No wait. Do me a favor. Bring 'em to the back room.
JACOB: They're awfully heavy.
WOMAN: I know. That's why I'm asking. JACOB waddles reluctantly toward the back of the store. CHINESE LAUNDERERS are hovering over piles of clothes. Steam from the pressing machines shoots into the air.
JACOB: ( huffing and puffing ) Where's Wong?
WOMAN: That's what I'd like to know. If you see him on the street somewhere, tell him he's fired. JACOB stoops to put the boxes on the shelf. There is a snapping sound and he winces in pain. Massaging his back, JACOB unfolds some papers for the WOMAN's signature.
JACOB: How was Palm Springs?
WOMAN: Hot. Where do I sign?
JACOB: ( pointing to the line ) You got a nice tan, though.
WOMAN: Tan? What tan? It faded on the airplane. I'd try to get my money back, but who do you ask? Two hundred dollars a night, for She hands JACOB the wrong sheet.
JACOB: No. I'll take the other one. Right. Well it's good to have you back. See you tomorrow, probably.
WOMAN: If you're lucky. JACOB smiles to himself as he leaves the store. He walks carefully. His back is out.
JACOB: Goddamn it! What the hell . ?
WINO: ( pleading ) I didn't take nothin'. I was just napping. Don't hit me. I was cold.
JACOB: ( lifting the man up ) What the hell do you think you're doing? You can't do this. This is government property. He begins opening the door. The WINO begs.
WINO: Don't throw me out. They're gonna get me. They'll tear me to pieces. He holds on to JACOB's leg. JACOB tries to pull away.
JACOB: Come on. You can't stay here.
WINO: Please! I never hurt anybody when I was alive. Believe me. I don't belong JACOB gives the WINO a strange look and then escorts him from the truck. A hundred eyes peer out of motionless cars and follow him as he leads the WINO to the sidewalk. JACOB pulls a dollar bill from his pocket and places it in the WINO's hand. The OLD MAN crumples it into a ball and turns away. He has a frightened look on his face. JACOB returns to the truck shaking his head.
JACOB: New York! He climbs into his seat and glances into his rear view mirror. He notices the WINO edging fearfully along the side of a building. A horn honks and traffic begins moving. When JACOB looks back the WINO is no longer there.
JEZZIE: How's it going? She takes the hamburger and shrugs.
JACOB: How's it going? She takes the hamburger and shrugs.
JACOB: ( continuing ) I'm going home.
JEZZIE: What's wrong?
JACOB: I don't know. One of these days, I'm gonna see Louis. My back's killing Now? What about the boss? He's not gonna like it. JACOB shrugs.
JEZZIE: Now? What about the boss? He's not gonna like it. JACOB shrugs.
JEZZIE: ( continuing ) Well, I'll miss riding home with you. I was looking forward to it.
JACOB: I'll be glad to avoid the crush.
JEZZIE: I enjoy crushing into you. She grabs him and hugs him tightly.
JACOB: Gently. My back. JEZZIE ignores him and squeezes again.
LOUIS: Come on, Jake. That didn't hurt.
JACOB: How do you know?
LOUIS: I know you. How come you're so tense What can I tell you?
JACOB: What can I tell you?
LOUIS: I saw Sarah the other day.
JACOB: Her knee acting up?
LOUIS: A bit.
JACOB: What did she have to say?
LOUIS: Turn on your right side. How about the other "right?" I don't understand you philosphers. You've got the whole world figured out but you can't remember the difference between right and left.
JACOB: I was absent the day they taught that in school. What did she say?
LOUIS: Not much. She's like you that way. Two clams. No wonder your marriage didn't last. Put your hand under your head. Take a breath and then let it He makes a rapid adjustment pushing down on JACOB's thigh. JACOB Ah, good. Now turn to your left.
JACOB: Not much. She's like you that way. Two clams. No wonder your marriage didn't last. Put your hand under your head. Take a breath and then let it He makes a rapid adjustment pushing down on JACOB's thigh. JACOB Ah, good. Now turn to your left.
LOUIS: Not much. She's like you that way. Two clams. No wonder your marriage didn't last. Put your hand under your head. Take a breath and then let it He makes a rapid adjustment pushing down on JACOB's thigh. JACOB Ah, good. Now turn to your left.
LOUIS: ( continuing ) Ah, good. Now turn to your left.
JACOB: She talk about the boys?
LOUIS: She says she can't get them new coats because you haven't sent the alimony for three months.
JACOB: She told you that? Did she tell you about the $2,000 I'm still paying for the orthodontist? I'll bet she didn't mention that.
LOUIS: She said you were a son of a bitch and she regrets the day she set eyes on you.
JACOB: I thought you said she didn't say She didn't. That's about all she said. Put your hand up. Good. I think she still loves you. Take a breath and let it out. He makes an adjustment. JACOB screams.
LOUIS: She didn't. That's about all she said. Put your hand up. Good. I think she still loves you. Take a breath and let it out. He makes an adjustment. JACOB screams.
JACOB: Loves me!? She hasn't said a kind word about me in years!
LOUIS: Right. She doesn't stop talking about you. You're always on her mind. That's love, Jake.
JACOB: She hates me, Louis.
LOUIS: You should go back to her.
JACOB: What? She threw me out, remember. She wanted some professor to carry her far away from Brooklyn. Only we didn't make it. She can't forgive me that she still lives in the same house she grew up in.
LOUIS: Her problem is that you spent eight years getting a PhD and then went to work for the post office.
JACOB: What can I tell you, Louis? After Nam I didn't want to think anymore. I decided my brain was too small an organ to comprehend this chaos.
LOUIS: ( looking at JACOB with affection ) If it was any other brain but yours, I might agree. Relax, this is going to be strong.
JACOB: I can't relax.
LOUIS: Wiggle your toes. JACOB wiggles his toes. At that instant, LOUIS twists JACOB's neck rapidly. There is a loud cracking sound.
MAN: I found one. He's alive. He shines a flashlight into the lens creating rings and halos.
JACOB: God almighty. What did you do to me?
LOUIS: I had to get in there. A deep adjustment. Rest a moment and let it set a bit.
JACOB: I had this weird flash just then.
LOUIS: I don't know. I've been having them You know, you look like an angel, Louis, an overgrown cherub. Anyone ever tell you that?
JACOB: I don't know. I've been having them You know, you look like an angel, Louis, an overgrown cherub. Anyone ever tell you that?
LOUIS: Yeah. You. Every time I see you. No more Errol Flynn, okay? Your back won't take it. You tell your girl friend to calm down if she knows what's good for you.
JACOB: Louis, you're a life saver.
LOUIS: I know.
JACOB: When there are gray skies, I don't mind the gray skies, as long as there's you . He hums. It is near dusk and lights are just coming on. The shop windows have a particularly garish look about them. The mannequins are dressed in inexpensive, almost tawdry, clothes and have a pathetic appearance. A few shops have set up their Christmas decorations. The ornamentation seems strangely out of place; almost blasphemous. JACOB passes a street gang standing in the doorway of a local drug store. They chortle and make taunting sounds.
GIRL: ( shaking her tits, singing ) "Hey, Mr. Postman . " JACOB stops and stares at them. To their surprise, he begins to sing with them. He knows the words. They like that. It is a sweet moment. JACOB continues walking. He comes to a cross street. The light is green. He is still singing to himself and does not notice a BLACK CAR sharging around the corner. The car is moving at full speed, heading straight toward him. A YOUNG MAN walking a few steps behind yells out.
YOUNG MAN: Look out! JACOB turns and sees the car. He scoots out of the way but it swerves in his direction. The YOUNG MAN calls out again.
YOUNG MAN: With a huge thrust, JACOB hurls himself onto the curb as the car shoots by. Two MEN are peering at him from the back seat. They are laughing like madmen and shaking their heads. They do not look human. JACOB yells and waves his fist, to no effect. After a moment he turns to thank the YOUNG MAN whose scream had saved him, but he is gone.
JEZZIE: Maybe it's all the pressure, Jake. The money. Things like that. Or your Why do you bring her up?
JACOB: Why do you bring her up?
JEZZIE: 'Cause she's always on your mind.
JACOB: When was the last time I said a word?
JEZZIE: It has nothin' to do with talkin'. She pauses for a while, long enough to suppose that the conversation is over. Then she continues.
JEZZIE: ( continuing ) Or maybe it's the war. JACOB closes his eyes.
JEZZIE: ( continuing ) It's still there, Jake. ( she points to his brain ) Even if you never say a word about it. You can't spend two years in Vietnam .
JACOB: ( annoyed ) What does that have to do with anything? Does it explain the barricaded subway stations? Does it explain those Godforsaken creatures?
JEZZIE: New York is filled with creatures. Everywhere. And lots of stations are They're like demons, Jez.
JACOB: They're like demons, Jez.
JEZZIE: Demons, Jake? Come on. They're winos and bag ladies. Low life. That's all they are. The streets are crawling with 'em. Don't make em into somethin' they're not. It's the pressure, honey. That's all it is.
JACOB: Those guys tried to kill me tonight. They were aiming right at me.
JEZZIE: Kids on a joy ride. Happens all the They weren't human!
JACOB: They weren't human!
JEZZIE: Come on. What were they, Jake? JACOB doesn't answer. He turns over on his stomach. JEZZIE stares at his naked back and drags her fingernails down to his buttocks. Scratch marks follow in their wake.
JEZZIE: You still love me? He does not respond.
JEZZIE: Says here the world's comin' to an end. The battle of heaven and hell they call it. Should be quite a show; fireworks, H-bombs, and everything. You believe them, Jake? JACOB doesn't answer.
JEZZIE: ( continuing ) Me neither . God, look at this. Two heads. Only lived two days. A day for each head. Could you imagine me with two heads? We'd probably keep each other up all night - arguing and whatnot. You wanna see the picture? He does not respond. JEZZIE gets up and walks over to JACOB. Standing in front of him she slowly unties her robe and lets it fall apart. She is naked underneath it. Sensuously she leans forward, unbuttons his shirt, and strokes his chest. She waits for a response from him, but there is none. He sits silently, disinterested. Furious, JEZZIE turns away. Grabbing the vacuum cleaner from the broom closet she angrily unravels the cord and switches it on. Breasts flash from beneath her gown as the vacuum roars back and forth across the ( continuing ) Goddamn you son-of-a-bitch! My uncle's dogs used to treat me better than you do. At least they'd lick my toes once in a while. At least they showed some fucking interest. A NEIGHBOR bangs on the wall, shouting.
JEZZIE: ( continuing ) Goddamn you son-of-a-bitch! My uncle's dogs used to treat me better than you do. At least they'd lick my toes once in a while. At least they showed some fucking interest. A NEIGHBOR bangs on the wall, shouting.
JEZZIE: All right! All right! All right! JACOB peers at the courtyard eighteen stories below and watches the patterns of early morning movement. Tiny figures drift purposefully over the concrete. Suddenly the vasuum cleaner goes off. In the silence, JACOB realizes that JEZZIE is crying and turns to see her curled over the kitchen table. He walks to her side and strokes her hair. JEZZIE begins to sob. After a moment she looks at him with puffy eyes.
JEZZIE: You love me? He nods his head "yes." She smiles coyly and rubs her hair like a kitten against his crotch. After a few moments she speaks.
JEZZIE: ( continuing ) Della's party's tonight. Why don't we go? It'll take your minf offa things. And I won't make you dance. I promise. Huh? ( he nods his head in consent. JEZZIE hugs him ) You still love me, Jake? He nods his head again, only heavily, as though the question exhausts INT. BELLVUE HOSPITAL - DAY JACOB is in the "Mental Health Clinic" at BELLVUE HOSPITAL walking through the PSYCHIATRIC EMERGENCY ROOM. It is overflowing with people. Some are handcuffed to their chairs. POLICEMEN are with them. JACOB approaches the main RECEPTION DESK. He speaks nervously.
JACOB: I'd like to speak to Dr. Carlson, Carlson? Is he new here?
RECEPTIONIST: Carlson? Is he new here?
JACOB: New? He's been here for years. She shrugs and looks at a log book.
RECEPTIONIST: Not according to my charts. Do you have an appointment?
JACOB: ( shaking his head ) Look, I need to see him. I know where his room is. Just give me a pass. I won't be long. Ten minutes.
RECEPTIONIST: Our doctors are seen by appointment Damn it. I was in the veteran's out- patient program. He knows me.
JACOB: Damn it. I was in the veteran's out- patient program. He knows me.
RECEPTIONIST: ( not happy ) What's your name?
JACOB: Jacob Singer. She walks over to a file drawer and goes through it several times before coming back over to JACOB.
RECEPTIONIST: I'm sorry but there's no record of a Jacob Singer in our files.
JACOB: Whataya mean, no record?
RECEPTIONIST: You want me to spell it out? There's nothing here.
JACOB: That's ridiculous. I've been coming here for years. Listen to me. I'm going out of my fucking mind here. I need to see him.
RECEPTIONIST: If this is an emergency we have a staff of psychiatric social workers. There's about an hour's wait. I'll be glad to take your name. Why don't you just fill out this form?
JACOB: Goddamn it! I don't want a social worker. Carlson knows me. JACOB pounds the desk, rattling a tiny African violet and knocking the RECEPTIONIST's forms to the floor. She grunts angrily and stoops to retrieve them. Standing up her cap hits a drawer handle and slips off. TWO KNUCKLE-LIKE HORNS protrude from her skull where the cap had been. JACOB's eyes lock on them like radar. He backs away. She immediately replaces her cap and breaks the spell, but her eyes glare at him with demonic intensity. JACOB, freaked, angry, turns and runs toward the "In Patient" door.
RECEPTIONIST: Hey! You can't go in there! JACOB doesn't stop. A POLICEMAN, guarding the entrance, runs after him. JACOB charges through the interior corridors of the aging institution. A LINE OF MENTAL PATIENTS, all holding hands, is moving down the hall. They break ranks as he charges by and begin to scream. Their ATTENDANT tries to calm them down but the sight of the POLICEMAN increases their hysteria. They grab hold of him as he tries to get by.
POLICEMAN: LET GO! GET AWAY! INT. GROUP ROOM - DAY JACOB dashes out of view. He runs down another corridor, wildly searching for a specific room. He finds it and rushes inside. He is surprised to find A GROUP OF MEN AND WOMEN seated in a circle. They all look up at him.
LEADER: Can I help you?
JACOB: I'm looking for Dr. Carlson. Isn't this his office? The LEADER stares at him uncomfortably. After a moment he gets up and takes JACOB into a corner of the room. Everyone is watching them. The LEADER speaks quietly.
LEADER: I'm so sorry. Obviously you haven't . Dr. Carlson died.
JACOB: ( stunned ) A car accident.
LEADER: A car accident.
JACOB: Jesus, Jesus! . When?
LEADER: Last month, before Thanksgiving.
JACOB: How did it happen?
LEADER: No one knows. They say it blew up.
JACOB: ( growing pale ) Blew up? What do you mean it blew up? The LEADER shrugs and tries to put his arm around JACOB, but he pulls Do you want me to get someone?
LEADER: Do you want me to get someone?
JACOB: No. No. It's okay. I'm okay. He backs quickly to the door. As he turns to leave he realizes that all of the PEOPLE in the group are watching him intently. Unsettled, JACOB hurries back into the hallway. He is frightened and confused. Suddenly a voice calls out.
POLICEMAN: HEY YOU! MAILMAN! JACOB turns and sees the POLICEMAN waiting for him. His gun is drawn.
POLICEMAN: Hold it. Just hold it. Where the hell do you think you are? This is Bellevue, for God's sake. People running around here get shot. The GROUP LEADER pokes his head out of the door and motions to the
LEADER: It's alright. He's okay.
POLICEMAN: ( nodding, reholstering his gun ) Come on, get out of here. I wouldn't want to interfere with the U.S. Mail. He leads JACOB toward the lobby. JACOB does not look back.
ELSA: Hey, you! Let me look at your hand! JACOB shrugs. DELLA, dancing nearby, calls out.
DELLA: Go on Jake. She reads 'em like a No, thanks.
JACOB: No, thanks.
DELLA: It's fun. CUT TO A CLOSE UP OF JACOB'S HAND. ELSA is squeezing the mounds and examining the lines. What begins as a playful expression on her face turns suddenly serious. She reaches for his other hand and compares the two of them. JEZZIE looks over from her dancing and eyes the scene You have an unusual hand.
ELSA: You have an unusual hand.
JACOB: I could have told you that.
ELSA: You see this line here? It's your life line. Here's where you were born. And this is where you got married. You're a married man, huh? Oh oh. Nope. Divorce. See this split. She studies his life line with growing concern. JEZZIE tries to get JACOB's attention. He ignores her.
ELSA: ( continuing ) You know, you got a strange line ( examining it ) It's short, huh?
JACOB: ( examining it ) It's short, huh?
ELSA: Short? It's ended.
JACOB: ( laughing ) Oh, terrific.
ELSA: It's not funny. According to this . you're already dead.
JACOB: ( smiling ) Just my luck.
DANCERS: Come on man, show your stuff. JACOB is easily intimidated. Relenting, he glares at JEZZIE and nods apologetically to ELSA. It is obvious that he is embarrassed at his inadequacy on the dance floor.
MAN: Come on professor. You got feet, too. JACOB tries to smile but it is pained and unconvincing. JEZZIE is playing with him, mimicking his movement. A number of DANCERS notice and laugh, which only increases his discomfort. JEZZIE's taunting has a strange effect on JACOB. He grows distant and withdrawn, even though his body is still going through the motions of the dance. A MAN taps JEZZIE on the shoulder. She spins around, smiling, and begins dancing with him. JACOB is left alone, dancing by himself. He looks away, uncomfortable. In the shadows a WOMAN kneels close to the floor. She seems to be urinating on the carpet. JACOB is shocked. Several DANCERS obscure his view. He turns around. A PREGNANT WOMAN stands half naked in the kitchen. JACOB cannot believe what he sees. In the next room, past JEZZIE, JACOB glimpses a terrifying image, a MAN whose head seems to be vibrating at such enormous speed that it has lost all definition. Something about the image compels and frightens JACOB. Slowly he approaches it. As he draws nearer to it the tortured image lets out a scream of such pain and unearthly terror that JACOB backs away. A WOMAN, laughing, grabs JACOB, spins him around, and begins dancing with him. He is totally disoriented.
WOMAN: Hold me, baby! She takes JACOB's arm and guides it to her back. THE CAMERA follows his hand as it reaches the smooth skin beneath her sexy, loose fitting dress. He runs his fingers up to her shoulder blades. Then, suddenly, he recoils. Her back is a mass of shoulder blades, hundreds of strange, bony protrusions. JACOB gasps. Out of the blue, JEZZIE leans into him and wiggles her tongue in his ear. JACOB, startled, jerks his head and his glasses go flying to the floor.
JACOB: He stoops down blindly to pick them up. Shoes just miss his fingers as he digs between dancing legs trying to recover them. Miraculously, he grabs the spectacles just before they are crushed and slips them back on. Instantly his world comes back into focus. As he stands, JACOB is surprised to find JEZZIE facing him, gyrating in wild abandon. There is a huge, satisfied smile on her face. She grabs his hand as if encouraging him to dance but it is obvious that she is dancing to her own rhythm. JACOB stares at her, confused. It takes him a moment to realize that her smile is not for him. Standing behind JEZZIE is another DANCER, his hands around her waist. They are moving together, locked in erotic embrace. It appears that he is mounting her from behind. Looking down we see that the DANCER's feet are deformed. They have a bizarre clubbed appearance and look very much like hooves. They skid and careen amidst the dancing feet. Something horrible and winglike flaps behind JEZZIE's back. We cannot make out what it is, but it elicits a primal terror. Before JACOB can react, JEZZIE opens her mouth. With a roaring sound, a spiked horn erupts from her throat. It juts menacingly from between her teeth and thrusts into the air. A CIRCLE OF DANCERS scream out in excited CUT TO JACOB's face as it registers terror and disbelief. He stares at the DANCERS who are crowding around him. They have become perverse, corrupt aspects of their normal selves. JACOB grabs his eyes as though trying to pull the vision from his head but it won't go away. The music throbs. His actions become spastic, almost delirious. JACOB is out of control. His frenzy becomes a kind of exorcism, a desperate attempt to free himself from his body and his mind. WE MOVE IN ON HIM as his eyes pass beyond pain. The dark walls of the APARTMENT fade away.
VOICE: He's burning up.
VOICE: Total delirium.
VOICE: That's some gash. His guts keep spilling out.
VOICE: Push 'em back.
ADMIRER: You are out of your mind, man. Out of your fuckin' mind.
WOMAN: Jake, you little devil. You never told me you could dance like that.
MAN: Jezzie, what did you put in his JEZZIE smiles while pulling JACOB to a corner chair. He plops down. His chest is heaving and he is grabbing hold of his stomach. Hie face is frightened and distorted.
JEZZIE: You okay?
JACOB: I wanna leave. Get me out of here.
JEZZIE: Oh, come on. It's early.
JACOB: ( pulling JEZZIE close to him, his voice filled with paranoia ) Where are we?
JEZZIE: ( surprised by the question ) We're at Della's.
JACOB: What do you mean? Where do you think?
JEZZIE: What do you mean? Where do you think?
JACOB: Where's Della? Bring her here?
JEZZIE: Why? What for?
JACOB: Show me Della!
JEZZIE: ( confused ) Hey, I'm here. JACOB eyes her with a pleading look. Annoyed, JEZZIE leaves JACOB and crosses the room. He watches her as she goes. JACOB is holding his stomach and rocking painfully. Moments later JEZZIE returns with DELLA.
DELLA: Hiya Jake. That was some dance.
JACOB: ( staring at her closely ) ( feeling the strangeness ) You want to see me? Well, here I am.
DELLA: ( feeling the strangeness ) You want to see me? Well, here I am.
JACOB: I see.
DELLA: What do you want?
JACOB: Just to see you. That's all.
DELLA: ( a bit uncomfortable ) Well, how do I look?
JACOB: Like Della. Suddenly JACOB breaks out in a dense sweat and begins shaking. His entire body is convulsive.
JEZZIE: Are you feeling all right? Shit, you're burning up. Feel his forehead.
DELLA: ( checking his forehead and cheeks ) Damn, that's hot. Maybe from dancing.
JEZZIE: I think you should lie down. JACOB is shaking uncontrollably. People are gathering around.
JEZZIE: ( continuing ) Can't you stop it?
JACOB: If I could stop it, I'd stop it.
WOMAN: Is he sick?
DELLA: He's on fire.
ELSA: Let me help you. She reaches out to JACOB. Unexpectedly he recoils, jumping to his feet like a wild man. He begins to scream.
JACOB: Stay away from me! Don't you come near me! All of you. Go to hell! Go to hell, goddamn you! Stay away! JEZZIE stares at JACOB with a confused and embarrassed look. A MAN whispers to her.
MAN: I'll call a cab.
JEZZIE: I've never been so mortified in my whole life. Never! Screaming like that. I don't understand what's gotten into you, Jake, to make you do a thing like that. You're not acting normal. I've lived with too many crazies in my life. I don't want it anymore. I can't handle it. I'm tired of men flipping out on me. Shit, you'd think it was my fault. Well you picked me, remember that. I don't need this. The NEIGHBOR pounds on the wall.
JEZZIE: ( continuing ) All right! All right! JEZZIE jabs her finger at the wall.
JEZZIE: ( continuing ) If you go crazy on me you're goin' crazy by yourself. You understand? JEZZIE reaches for his mouth and pulls out the thermometer. She looks at it closely and then squints to see it better.
JACOB: What's it say? A hundred and two?
JEZZIE: I don't believe this. I'm calling the She runs out of the room. JACOB calls after her.
JACOB: What does it say?
JACOB: How high is that?
JACOB: What the hell are you doin'?
JEZZIE: Get your clothes off.
JACOB: What are you talking about? I'm Get your clothes off! JACOB gives her a confused look as she rushes back to the KITCHEN.
JEZZIE: Get your clothes off! JACOB gives her a confused look as she rushes back to the KITCHEN.
JACOB: What'd the doctor say?
JACOB: Coming here?
JACOB: You're out of your mind. I'm not getting in there. I'd rather die.
JEZZIE: That's your decision.
JACOB: Look at me. I'm ice cold.
JEZZIE: You're red hot, damn it. Get in there. I've got to get more ice. She runs out of the room. The door to the apartment slams shut. JACOB sticks his toe into the water and pulls it out again instantly.
JACOB: Oh Jesus! He sticks his whole foot in and grits his teeth as the ice cold water turns his foot bright red. He keeps it in as long as he can and then yanks it out, quickly wrapping it in a towel. JACOB rubs his foot vigorously to get rid of the sting and stares at the water, afraid of its pain.
JACOB: I can't do it.
JEZZIE: What kind of man are you? She unloads two trays into the water.
JACOB: Don't gimme that.
JEZZIE: Lie down!
JACOB: ( pleading ) Jezzie! My feet are throbbing!
JEZZIE: ( calling out ) Sam, Tony, come in here.
JACOB: Hey, I'm not dressed.
SAM: You got nothin' we ain't seen before. SAM and TONY grab hold of JACOB who wrestles to get away.
JACOB: Get the hell off me.
TONY: He's like a hot coal.
SAM: It's for your own good, Jake.
JACOB: Let go of me, you sons of bitches. The TWO MEN struggle with JACOB and force him into the water. TONY winces when the water hits his arm. JACOB nearly flies out of the tub. The TWO MEN fight to hold him down. JACOB screams and cries for the MEN to let him go but they keep him flat on his back.
JACOB: ( continuing ) I'm freezing! I'm freezing! Goddamn ( his hand turning red ) Sam, I can't take it.
TONY: ( his hand turning red ) Sam, I can't take it.
SAM: Don't you let go.
TONY: Jez, get help. My hands are killing Help me! Help me!
JACOB: Help me! Help me!
JEZZIE: ( to TONY ) Here. I'll do it.
TONY: Take his legs.
SAM: Run your hands under hot water. MRS. CARMICHAEL comes in.
MRS. CARMICHAEL: I have some ice from the machine.
JEZZIE: Bring it in.
MRS. CARMICHAEL: Is he all right?
JEZZIE: He doesn't like it.
MRS. CARMICHAEL: I don't blame him. What should I do with the ice?
JEZZIE: Pour it in.
MRS. CARMICHAEL: On top of him?
JEZZIE: He's melting it as fast as we dump it Okay. My husband's got two more bags. He's coming. They're heavy. TONY helps her pour the ice into the water. JACOB yells.
MRS. CARMICHAEL: Okay. My husband's got two more bags. He's coming. They're heavy. TONY helps her pour the ice into the water. JACOB yells.
JACOB: Oh God! You're killing me! Stop!
JACOB: Damn! You and your fresh air. He jumps out of bed and goes over to the window. He pushes at the frame and it comes flying down with a loud bang. A woman in the bed sits up. It is SARAH.
SARAH: What was that?
JACOB: It's freezing.
SARAH: I'm not cold.
JACOB: Of course not. You have all the blankets. It must be ten degrees in here. I'm telling you, Sarah, if you want to sleep with fresh air, you sleep on the fire escape. From now on that window is closed.
SARAH: It's not healthy with it closed.
JACOB: This is healthy? I'll probably die of pneumonia tomorrow and this is He settles back into bed and pulls the covers back over to his side. He lies quietly for a moment, thinking.
JACOB: ( continuing ) What a dream I was having. I was living with another woman . You know who it was?
SARAH: I don't want to know.
JACOB: Jezebel, from the post office. You remember, you met her that time at the Christmas party. I was living with her. God, it was a nightmare. There were all these demons and I was on fire. Only I was burning from ice.
SARAH: Guilty thoughts. See what happens when you cheat on me, even in your She was good in bed, though.
JACOB: She was good in bed, though.
SARAH: Go to sleep.
JACOB: She had these real beefy thighs. I thought you said it was a Suddenly, out of nowhere, we hear the tinkling sound of a music box. A YOUNG BOY enters the room, carrying a musical LUNCH BOX in his arms. He is wearing a long T-shirt nearly down to his ankles. We recognize him from his photograph. It is GABE.
SARAH: I thought you said it was a Suddenly, out of nowhere, we hear the tinkling sound of a music box. A YOUNG BOY enters the room, carrying a musical LUNCH BOX in his arms. He is wearing a long T-shirt nearly down to his ankles. We recognize him from his photograph. It is GABE.
GABE: Daddy, what was that noise?
JACOB: ( surprised to see him ) ( he stares curiously at his son ) What are you doing . ?
GABE: There was a bang.
JACOB: It was the window.
GABE: It's cold.
JACOB: Tell your mother.
GABE: Mom, it's .
SARAH: I heard you. Go back to sleep.
GABE: Will you tuck me in?
SARAH: ( not happily ) Oh . all right. She starts to rise. JACOB stops her and gets up instead. He whisks GABE upside down and carries him into his
JED: Jed. It's the middle of the night. What's up?
JACOB: Jed. It's the middle of the night. What's up?
JED: You forgot my allowance.
JACOB: Your allowance? It's five A.M. We'll talk at breakfast.
JED: Okay, but don't forget. Suddenly another voice pipes in from the top bunk.
ELI: I love you, Dad. JACOB smiles.
JACOB: What is this, a convention? I love you, too, Pickles. Now go back to He turns to leave.
GABE: Wait . Daddy.
JACOB: Now what?
GABE: Don't go.
JACOB: Don't go? I'm not going anywhere. I'm right here, Gabe. Come on, go back to sleep. You can still get a couple of hours. He hugs him warmly and then walks to the door.
GABE: . I love you. There is deep emotion and seriousness in GABE's words. JACOB is struck by them.
GABE: ( continuing ) Don't shut the door. JACOB nods and leaves it a tiny bit ajar.
GABE: ( continuing ) A bit more . a bit more. JACOB adjusts the opening enough to please GABE and make him secure. GABE smiles and cuddles in his bed.
JACOB: I love you, Sarah. She smiles warmly. His eyes close and in a matter of seconds he is back EXT. VIETNAM - PRE DAWN WE HEAR SUMMER MORNING SOUNDS, CRICKETS and BIRDS. The image of trees materializes overhead and a beautiful pink sky, just before sunrise, can be seen through the branches. It is an idyllic setting. Suddenly a strange sound can be heard in the distance, a metallic humming, growing louder. There is a scramble of feet and a sound of heavy boots moving through the tall grass. Voices can be heard. Men's They're here.
VOICE: They're here.
VOICE: Thank God. Move 'em out!
VOICES: Bust your balls!
VOICE: Move it! Move it! There is an instant swell of activity. Trees and branches blur and speed by overhead. The idyllic image of moments before reveals itself as a P.O.V. SHOT. The CAMERA races out of a JUNGLE covering and into a huge CLEARING. High overhead a helicopter appears. Its blades whirl with a deafening whine. Long lines drop from its belly and dangle in mid-air. SOLDIERS leap up into the air reaching for them. The air is filled with turbulence. Tarps fly off dead bodies. SOLDIERS hold them down. Voices yell but the words are not clear. They are filled with urgency. The CAMERA leaves the ground. The edges of the sky disappear as the helicopter's gray mass fills the frame. It grows larger and darker as the CAMERA approaches. Rivets and insignias dotting the underbelly come into view. Suddenly the stretcher begins spinning, out of control. Hands emerge from inside, reaching out to grab it. Watery, womb-like sounds rise out of nowhere, the rippling of water, a heart beating. Gradually voices can be heard mumbling; distant sounds, warm and familiar.
DOCTOR: You are a lucky man, my friend. A lucky man. You must have friends in high places, that's all I can say. SAM and TONY appear next to the DOCTOR. They are extending their hands to the P.O.V. CAMERA. JACOB'S arms, nearly blue, reach out to them. Slowly they lift him from the icy water. JACOB takes one step onto the tile and collapses to the floor.
JEZZIE: ( she places her hand on his head and strokes his hair ) You're gonna be all right, Jake. You're gonna be fine.
JACOB: Am I home?
JEZZIE: You're here. Home. The doctor said you're lucky your brains didn't boil. What a night, Jake. It was crazy. You kept sayin' "Sarah, close the window," over and over. And talkin' to your kids. Even the dead one. Weird. You know you melted 200 pounds of ice in 8 hours. Amazing, huh?
JACOB: Are we in Brooklyn?
JEZZIE: You're right here, Jake. You just The doctor said you had a virus. That's what they say when they don't know what it is. You can't do anything for a week. He says you gotta recuperate. Now you just lie here. Mrs. Sandelman made you some chicken soup. It'll warm you up. JEZZIE leaves the room. JACOB watches her as she goes. He seems lost and confused.
JEZZIE: You know, you really ought to get out today. You can't just sit around like this all the time. It's not healthy. It's not good for your mind. Go take a walk, or somethin'. Go to a movie. Christ, who's gonna know? You think I care? I don't give a shit. Go. Enjoy yourself. One of us should be having a good time. Hello! Anybody home? Anybody in there?
JACOB: JEZZIE just stares at him. She does not respond. JACOB returns to his CUT TO CLOSE UP IMAGES OF WINGED DEMONS, real demons, with spindly horns and long tails. JACOB's huge finger, magnified, scans page after page of ancient images and archaic text. JEZZIE, enraged at his lack of attention, returns to packing her lunch box. Suddenly she spins around.
JEZZIE: Goddamn it! I can't stand it anymore. I've had it up to here. Go ahead and rot if you want . You son-of-a- bitch, I'm talking to you. CUT BACK to the DEMONS. Suddenly a crashing sound catches JACOB's attention as a KITCHEN POT flies by his head. He looks up to see JEZZIE knocking pots and pans off the kitchen counter and kicking them wildly across the room. The noise is terrible. The intensity of her rage is shocking. The pots crash into every surface, knocking all his books onto the floor. And then, suddenly, she stops. JEZZIE stoops down to the floor and picks up her sandwich, stuffs it back in its plastic Baggie, and puts it back in her lunch box. She is about to leave when she stops and looks at JACOB.
JEZZIE: ( continuing, her anger in check ) I made you a tuna fish sandwich. It's in the fridge. Eat a carrot with it. The aspirin's on the bottom shelf. We're out of soap so, if for some reason you decide to wash yourself again, use the dishwashing stuff. ( she walks out of the room and returns with her coat ) I'm sorry I yelled, but you get on my ( she bends down and makes eye contact with
JACOB ): Hello? Listen, I gotta go. JEZZIE sits on his lap, gives him a big kiss, and then, unexpectedly, raises two fingers, like horns, over her head. The gesture catches JACOB's full attention.
JEZZIE: ( continuing ) Look, I'm horny. Keep it in mind. ( she kisses his cheek ) Love me a little?
JACOB: ( speaking with affection ) You are the most unbelievable woman I have ever met. One second you're a screaming banshee and the next you're Florence Nightingale. Who are you? That's what I want to know. Will the real Jezzie Pipkin please stand up. Suddenly the telephone rings. It startles them.
JEZZIE: Oh shit. Tell 'em I've left. JEZZIE grabs her jacket and shoves her arm in it upside down. A pocketful of change falls on the floor. JACOB smiles. JEZZIE curses as she struggles to pick it up and get the jacket on right. JACOB gets the Jacob Singer?
JACOB: PAUL ( V.O. ) Jacob Singer?
JACOB: PAUL ( V.O. ) Paul Gruneger!
JACOB: Paul Gruneger! Well I'll be JACOB indicates it's for him. JEZZIE throws him a kiss goodbye and hurries out the door.
JACOB: ( continuing ) Paul! You son-of-a-bitch, how the hell are you? I haven't seen you in what, five, six, years?
JACOB: Jesus Christ. How've you been? What's happening in your life?
JACOB: Me neither. Nothing too exciting. So tell me, to what do I owe the honor?
JACOB: Shit, Paul. I'd love to see you. But I'm kind of laid up here. I've been I need to see you.
JACOB: Jesus, man, you look terrific. You must have put on twenty pounds.
PAUL: I work in a bakery.
JACOB: You're lucky. How many vets you know are even employed?
PAUL: Count 'em on one hand.
JACOB: It's almost like a conspiracy, huh?
PAUL: No joke. Fuckin' army! That goddamn war. I'm still fightin' it.
JACOB: It's not worth it. You'll never win.
PAUL: You tellin' me? How many times can you die, huh? PAUL looks in his rear view mirror before changing lanes. He sees a black car tagging close behind him. He pulls out. So does the car.
PAUL: ( continuing ) Still married, Jake?
JACOB: You and everybody else. God I hate this area. Makes me nervous.
PAUL: You and everybody else. God I hate this area. Makes me nervous.
JACOB: Why the hell we drivin' here?
PAUL: I just need to talk.
JACOB: You can't talk in Brownsville?
PAUL: I'm not sure where I can talk What's wrong?
JACOB: What's wrong?
PAUL: Let's get a couple drinks, okay? Hey, take a look behind us. Do you think that car is followin' us?
JACOB: ( turning to look ) That black car?
PAUL: Pull the mirror down on the sun Just watch 'em.
JACOB: What's goin' on Paul?
PAUL: I don't know.
JACOB: You in trouble?
PAUL: JACOB notices PAUL's left arm. It is shaking. The black car passes on the left. Both PAUL and JACOB stare at it as it speeds by.
PAUL: Somethin's wrong, Jake. I don't know what it is but I can't talk to anybody about it. I figured I could with you. You always used to listen, you know? JACOB nods. PAUL takes a sip of his drink and stares deliberately into JACOB's eyes.
PAUL: ( continuing ) I'm going to Hell! JACOB's face grows suddenly tense.
PAUL: ( continuing ) That's as straight as I can put it. And don't tell me that I'm crazy 'cause I know I'm not. I'm goin' to Hell. They're comin' after me.
JACOB: ( frightened, but holding back ) Who is?
PAUL: They've been followin' me. They're comin' outta the walls. I don't trust anyone. I'm not even sure I trust you. But I gotta talk to someone. I'm gonna fly outta my fuckin' mind. PAUL cannot contain his fear. He jumps up suddenly and walks away from the booth. JACOB follows him with his eyes but does not go after him. A YOUNG MAN in the next booth observes the scene with interest. He looks vaguely familiar, like we have seen him before. PAUL stares out the window for a moment and then walks over to the juke box. He pulls a quarter out of his pocket and drops it in the slot. His finger pushes a selection at random. Some '60's rock hit blares out. JACOB's mind is reeling by the time PAUL sits back down.
PAUL: ( continuing ) Sorry. Sometimes I think I'm just gonna jump outta my skin. They're just drivin' me wild.
JACOB: Who, Paul? What exactly . ?
PAUL: I don't know who they are, or what they are. But they're gonna get me and I'm scared, Jake. I'm so scared I can't do anything. I can't go to my sisters. I can't even go home.
JACOB: Why not?
PAUL: They're waitin' for me, that's why. PAUL's hand starts to shake. The tremor spreads rapidly to his whole body. The booth begins to rattle.
PAUL: ( continuing ) I can't stop it. I try. Oh God! Help me Jake. JACOB slides quickly out of his side of the booth and moves in toward PAUL. He puts his arm around him and holds him tightly, offering comfort as best he can. PAUL is obviously terrified and grateful for JACOB's gesture. A few PEOPLE at the bar look over in their direction.
JACOB: It's okay, Paul. It's okay.
PAUL: ( crying ) I don't know what to do.
JACOB: Don't do anything. Paul, I know what you're talking What do you mean?
PAUL: What do you mean?
JACOB: I've seen them too . the demons!
PAUL: ( staring at JACOB ) You've seen them?
JACOB: Everywhere, like a plague.
PAUL: God almighty. I thought I was the only one.
JACOB: Me, too. I had no idea. It's like I was coming apart at the seams.
PAUL: Oh God. I know. I know.
JACOB: What is it Paul? What's happening to They keep telling me I'm already dead, that they're gonna tear me apart, piece by piece, and throw me into the fire. I carry these everywhere but they don't help. Nothing helps. Everyone thinks I'm crazy. My mother filed a report with the army.
PAUL: They keep telling me I'm already dead, that they're gonna tear me apart, piece by piece, and throw me into the fire. I carry these everywhere but they don't help. Nothing helps. Everyone thinks I'm crazy. My mother filed a report with the army.
JACOB: ( stunned ) The army?
PAUL: She said I haven't been the same since then. Since that night. There's still this big hole in my brain. It's so dark in there, Jake. And these creatures. It's like they're crawling out of my brain. What happened that night? Why won't they tell us?
JACOB: I don't know. I don't know.
PAUL: They're monsters, Jake. We're both seein' 'em. There's gotta be a connection. Something. JACOB leans back in the booth, his mind racing. The YOUNG MAN in the next booth is watching them with rapt attention.
PAUL: I'm afraid to go by myself anymore. I keep thinkin' one of 'em's gonna come up behind me. Somethin's wrong when a guy can't even take a leak by himself. I've seen 'em take people right off the street. I used to go home a different way every night. Now I can't even go home.
JACOB: You come home with me.
PAUL: What about your girlfriend? You don't think she'll mind?
JACOB: Are you kidding? We've put up more of her cousins. You wouldn't believe how they breed down there. PAUL smiles.
PAUL: Merry Christmas. PAUL steps into the street and walks to the driver's side of his car. He pulls out his keys and opens the door. JACOB looks down on the sidewalk and notices a dime.
JACOB: Goddamn, this is my lucky day. He bends down to pick it up. PAUL inserts the key into the ignition and steps on the gas. He turns the key. THE CAR EXPLODES. Pieces of metal and flesh fly into the air. JACOB sprawls out flat on the ground as the debris hurls above him. He covers his head.
JACOB: Help me!
MEDIC: We're doing the best we can.
JACOB: Get me out of here!
YOUNG MAN: Just hold on.
JACOB: Where am I? Who are you? The YOUNG MAN yanks JACOB around the corner just as another explosion consumes the car. The air is filled with flames and flying debris. The YOUNG MAN pulls JACOB into the bar.
YOUNG MAN: Just lie still. You're okay. You're not hurt. The CUSTOMERS are in a state of bedlam. Part of the wall has blown apart and bricks and glass are everywhere. The cross from around PAUL's neck is buried in the debris. Sirens are heard in the distance. A BLACK CAR speeds off down the street. JACOB looks for the YOUNG MAN who had helped him. He is gone.
FRANK: Did anyone see the police report? It sounds like a detonation job to me.
JERRY: The paper said it was electrical; a freak accident.
ROD: Bullshit. Someone's covering somethin'. That was no accident.
GEORGE: Why do you say that?
ROD: Cars don't explode that way. Any simpleton knows that.
GEORGE: But the paper .
ROD: That was set. I'm tellin' you.
DOUG: By who? Why? Paul didn't have an enemy in the world.
JERRY: How do you know?
DOUG: Hey, you're talkin' about Paul. Who'd want to hurt him?
FRANK: What did he talk about when you guys went out? Did he say anything?
JACOB: He was upset. He thought people were following him.
JERRY: You're kidding. Who?
JACOB: He didn't know . Demons.
GEORGE: ( obviously struck by the word ) What do you mean, demons?
JACOB: He told me he was going to Hell. The statement has a surprising impact on the group. There is immediate silence and eyes averted from one another.
ROD: What'd he say that for? What made him say that? Strange, huh? Strange.
GEORGE: What else did he say, Jake?
JACOB: He was scared. He saw these creatures coming out of the woodwork. They were tryin' to get him, he said.
GEORGE: ( his arm shaking ) How long had that been going on?
JACOB: A couple of weeks, I think. He notices GEORGE's beer can rattling.
GEORGE: He say what they looked like?
JACOB: No. Not really .
GEORGE: Excuse me a minute. I'll be right In one end, out the other, huh GEORGE tries to smile as he hurries to the bathroom. His arm is nearly out of control and beer is spilling on the carpet as he walks.
ROD: In one end, out the other, huh GEORGE tries to smile as he hurries to the bathroom. His arm is nearly out of control and beer is spilling on the carpet as he walks.
ROD: ( continuing ) Still a spastic, huh? I hope you can hold your dick better than you hold that can. No one laughs. There is an uncomfortable silence.
DOUG: I know what Paul was talking about. I don't know how to say this . but in a way it's a relief knowing that someone else saw them, too.
ROD: You're seeing . ?
DOUG: They're not human, I'll tell you that. A car tried to run over me the other day. It was aiming straight for me. I saw their faces. They weren't from Brooklyn.
ROD: What are you tellin' me? They're from the Bronx?
DOUG: It was no joke, Rod.
JERRY: Something weird is going on here. What is it about us? Even in Nam it was always weird. Are we all crazy or Yeah, ever since that . He hesitates. They all understand.
DOUG: Yeah, ever since that . He hesitates. They all understand.
ROD: What's that have to do with anything?
FRANK: It was bad grass. That's all it was.
JERRY: Grass never did that to me.
DOUG: You know, I've been to three shrinks and a hypnotist. Nothing penetrates that night. Nothing.
ROD: It's not worth goin' over again and again. Whatever happened, happened. It's over.
JACOB: . I've seen them, too.
ROD: So have I.
JERRY: So have I.
JACOB: Look, there's something fucking strange going on here. You know Paul's not the only one who's died. You remember Dr. Carlson over at Bellevue? His car blew up, too.
ROD: Dr. Carlson's dead?
JACOB: An explosion, just like Paul's.
JERRY: You think they're connected?
FRANK: You think they're connected?
GEORGE: You think they're connected?
JACOB: ( he nods ) I think something's fucking connect- ed. I mean, a car tried to run me over the other day. Doug too, right? We've got six guys here going fucking Not me, buddy.
ROD: Not me, buddy.
JACOB: Okay, not you Rod. But the rest of us are flipping out for some goddamn reason. They're tryin' to kill us. Fuck it man, we need to find out what's going on.
DOUG: Do you think it has something to do with . the offensive?
JACOB: It's got something to do with some- thing. I think we've got to confront the army. If they're hiding shit from us, we better find out what it is.
ROD: Come on, Professor. The army's not gonna give you any answers. You'll be buttin' your head against a stone Maybe that's the only way to get through. Besides, six heads'll be better than one.
JACOB: Maybe that's the only way to get through. Besides, six heads'll be better than one.
ROD: Not my head, buddy. Not me. I'm gettin' a headache just listenin' to We should get ourselves a lawyer.
JACOB: We should get ourselves a lawyer.
ROD: I say you should get a shrink.
DOUG: Too late. I've tried. I think you're right, Jake. I'm game.
JERRY: Me, too.
ROD: You guys are fucking paranoid. It was bad grass. That's all it was. There's no such thing as demons.
GEARY: I'm sorry, Mr. Singer, but do you have any idea how many people come to me with the injustices of the world? It'd break your heart.
JACOB: This isn't injustice, Mr. Geary. The army did something to us and we've got to find out what.
GEARY: The army. The army. What is it with you guys? We're not talking about a trip to the library here. This is the United States Government for God's sake. This is red tape coming out of your ass. You know what I mean?
JACOB: Exactly. And we need someone to cut through it. We hear you're the man.
GEARY: Oh yeah? What am I - Perry Mason GEARY stands up and grabs a bag of Cheetos from a file drawer. He chomps down a few and offers the bag to the others. There are no takers. Thirsty, he downs the ice cube and cracks it between his teeth.
GEARY: ( continuing ) Okay. I'll look into it. The MEN are surprised and excited.
PAUL: Wow! Do you think we have a chance?
GEARY: What do you want, a fortune teller or a lawyer? . I'll need sworn depositions from each of you and a list of the other members of the platoon, or their survivors.
DOUG: Hey, this is great.
GEARY: I'll tell you, if we find the military is implicated in any way, you could stand to recover quite a lot of money. Not that I can predict anything, but some class action suits of this kind have been awarded fairly generous judgements. That wouldn't be so bad, would it Mr. Singer?
JACOB: ( GEARY looks at him oddly ) Ah! I thought you were a mailman.
GEARY: Ah! I thought you were a mailman.
JACOB: I am.
GEARY: ( confused ) Then why aren't you teaching? Why aren't you in a university?
JACOB: I'm too messed up to teach.
GEARY: ( smiling ) Ah! Well then, they're going to have to pay for that, aren't they? The MEN all nod in agreement.
JEZZIE: So tell me . am I still an angel?
JACOB: ( smiling broadly ) With wings. You transport me, you know that? You carry me away. JEZZIE kisses him softly around his face and gently probes his ear with her pinky. JACOB loves it.
JEZZIE: We're all angels, you know . . and devils. It's just what you choose to see.
JACOB: I love you, Jez.
JEZZIE: I know.
JACOB: Underneath all the bullshit, just Remember that.
JEZZIE: Remember that.
JACOB: You know what? I feel . exorcised . like the demons are gone.
JEZZIE: How come? The army?
JACOB: In a way. At least now I have some idea of what was happening. If we can only get them to admit . to explain what they did . I don't know. Maybe it'd clear things up in my head. I'll tell you something, Jez, honestly . I thought they were real. Silence. Suddenly JEZZIE roars like a monster and scares JACOB half to death. They laugh and tumble back to the floor.
JEZZIE: I put a frozen dinner in the oven, a Manhandler. It'll be ready at a quarter of. I threw a little salad together. It's in the fridge. I also bought some apple juice, Red Cheek. Don't drink it all. Oh, and Jake, your lawyer called.
JACOB: He did? When?
JEZZIE: ( grabbing her coat ) While you were in the shower.
JACOB: Why didn't you call me?
JEZZIE: He didn't give me a chance. Look, honey, don't get upset, but he's not taking your case.
JACOB: ( stunned ) What? What do you mean?
JEZZIE: He said you didn't have one.
JACOB: What's he talking about?
JEZZIE: I don't know. That's all he said. He wasn't very friendly. Oh, yeah. He said your buddies backed down. They chickened out, he said.
JACOB: I don't believe this.
JEZZIE: Baby, I'm sorry. I feel terrible. I'd stay and talk but I'm so late. Look, don't be upset. We'll talk when I get home. See you around midnight. Bye. And don't brood. Watch T.V. or JACOB'S APT./FRANK'S APT. - INTERCUT The door slams securely. The locks set. JACOB begins instantly rifling through a desk drawer. He comes up with a frayed address book and looks up a number. He dials.
JACOB: Frank. It's Jake. Jacob SInger. We see FRANK standing at a window fingering the Venetian blinds. He does not reply. The scene intercuts between the two men.
JACOB: ( continuing ) Listen, I just got a strange call from Geary. He said the guys backed down. What's he talking about?
FRANK: ( fingering the Venetian blinds ) That's right. We did.
JACOB: What does that mean, Frank? I don't get it. Why?
FRANK: It's hard to explain.
JACOB: ( angry ) Well, try, huh.
FRANK: I don't know if I can. It's just that war is war. Things happen.
JACOB: Things happen? What the fuck are you talking about? They did something to us, Frank. We have to expose this.
FRANK: There's nothing to expose.
JACOB: Jesus Christ! Who's been talking to What's going on? How can you just turn away? What about the others?
FRANK: They're not interested, Jake.
JACOB: Shit! You know it's not half the case if I go it alone. We're all suffering the same symptoms, Frank. The army is to blame. They've done something to us. How can you not want to know?
FRANK: ( pausing ) Maybe it's not the army, Jake.
JACOB: What do you mean?
FRANK: Maybe there's a larger truth.
JACOB: What are you talking about?
FRANK: Maybe the demons are real.
JACOB: Goddamn it. What kind of bullshit is Listen, Jake. I gotta go.
FRANK: Listen, Jake. I gotta go.
JACOB: What the hell? What kind of mumbo jumbo . ?
FRANK: I'm hanging up.
JACOB: Hey, wait!
FRANK: Don't bother to call again, okay? FRANK hangs up. JACOB stands holding the phone for a long time, until the high pitched whine from the receiver reminds him it's off the hook. The sound frightens him and he slams the receiver down. QUickly JACOB tears through his address book looking for other phone numbers. They aren't there.
JACOB: INT. JACOB'S APT. JACOB hurries into the BEDROOM and pulls an old shoe box from the closet. The box is filled with yellowing army papers, dog tags, and photos of old comrades. Beneath his discharge papers he finds a sheet scribbled with the names and addresses of platoon buddies. JACOB grabs it. Then his eyes fall on the frayed remains of an old letter. He picks it up and unfolds it with great care. The letter is written in a child's handwriting. "DEAR DADDY, I LOVE YOU. PLEASE COME HOME. JED GOT
JACOB: INT. BROOKLYN COURT HOUSE - LATE AFTERNOON A huge wooden door slams open. JACOB charges through it. He is chasing his lawyer, DONALD GEARY, through a crowded court house corridor. GEARY, sweaty and unshaven, is cradling a Coke in one hand, a sandwich and a briefcase in the other. His stomach bounces wildly as he GEARY keeps walking. JACOB catches up to him.
NO!!!: INT. BROOKLYN COURT HOUSE - LATE AFTERNOON A huge wooden door slams open. JACOB charges through it. He is chasing his lawyer, DONALD GEARY, through a crowded court house corridor. GEARY, sweaty and unshaven, is cradling a Coke in one hand, a sandwich and a briefcase in the other. His stomach bounces wildly as he GEARY keeps walking. JACOB catches up to him.
JACOB: Geary! Mr. Geary! Listen, goddamn it! You can't just walk away from this. GEARY keeps walking. JACOB catches up to him.
JACOB: ( continuing ) Who's been talking to you? The army? Have they been talking to you, huh?
GEARY: Nobody's been talking to nobody. You don't have a case, you hear me? It's pure and simple. Now leave me alone. JACOB grabs the back of GEARY's jacket and pulls him up short.
GEARY: ( continuing ) Take your hands off me! JACOB lets go. He stares into GEARY's eyes.
JACOB: Listen, will you listen? They're trying to get me. They're comin' out of the walls. The army's done something to me. I need you.
GEARY: You need . a doctor.
JACOB: A doctor? And what's he gonna do, tell me I'm crazy? They've fucked with my head. I've got to prove it. You've got to do something. GEARY gives JACOB a pitiful look.
GEARY: There's nothing I can do. He turns and walks away. JACOB stands there a moment, and then rushes after him. GEARY is biting into his sandwich. Mayonnaise spills onto his hand. He licks it with his tongue. JACOB catches up to him.
GEARY: You mind? I'm eating, huh?
JACOB: Something's going on here. You're not telling me something. What the hell's gotten into you?
GEARY: I'll tell you what's gotten into me. I don't know you from Adam, right? You come to my office with this bizarro story and demand I look into it. Okay. I said I'd check it out and I did. Now I don't know what kind of fool you take me for, but you have used and abused me, and I don't like Used you?
JACOB: Used you?
GEARY: I talked to the Army's Bureau of Records. You've never even been to Viet Nam.
JACOB: What the hell is that supposed to It means that you and your buddies are whacko, that you were discharged on psychological grounds after some war games in Thailand.
GEARY: It means that you and your buddies are whacko, that you were discharged on psychological grounds after some war games in Thailand.
JACOB: ( stunned ) War games? Thailand? That's not true! How can you believe that? Can't you see what they're doing? It's all a lie. We were in Da Nang, for God's sake. You've got to believe me.
GEARY: I don't have to do any such thing. I'm eating my lunch, okay? GEARY takes a swig of his COKE and begins walking away. JACOB, enraged, charges after him. With a wild swipe he sends the COKE CAN shooting out of GEARY's hand. It reverberates down the corridor. GEARY is stunned.
JACOB: You slimy bastard! You goddamn piece of shit! With a powerful thrust, JACOB rips the sandwich from GEARY's other hand. Tossing it on the floor, he grinds his heel in it. Tomato and mayonnaise squirt onto GEARY's shoe. JACOB turns away. CUT TO JACOB walking down the COURT HOUSE CORRIDOR to the elevators. There is a look of satisfaction on his face. CUT BACK TO GEARY. He picks up a telephone and dials. Someone comes on the line. GEARY speaks quietly.
GEARY: He's on his way. CUT TO JACOB stepping onto the elevator. The doors close. The Muzak is playing "Sonny Boy" with Al Jolson singing. JACOB is surprised to hear it. He presses the down button for the main floor. The elevator stops at the LOBBY. The doors open swiftly. SEVERAL SOLDIERS are standing there. They approach JACOB.
SOLDIER 1: Let's go, Singer. JACOB is shocked to see them. He tries to get away but two of the SOLDIERS yank him toward the LOBBY doors.
SOLDIER 2: You're coming with us.
JACOB: Who are you? What do you want?
SANTA: Merry Christmas.
BEARER: He's been screaming like a madman. You better get something in him.
RESIDENT: ( approaching JACOB ) Hi. I'm Doctor Stewart. Can you tell me what happened?
JACOB: My back. I can't move. I need my Your back? Did you fall?
RESIDENT: Your back? Did you fall?
BEARER: They said he slipped on the ice. May have hit his head.
ATTENDANT: Does he have any identification?
BEARER: No waller. Nothing.
JACOB: They stole it.
RESIDENT: Who did?
JACOB: I don't know. Santa Claus. I had my son's picture in it. Gabe's picture. It's the only one I had.
RESIDENT: We better get an orthopedic man in here. Is Dr. Davis on call?
NURSE: I'll page him.
JACOB: Call my chiropractor.
NURSE: We're doing everything we can.
JACOB: Louis Schwartz. Nostrand Avenue.
RESIDENT: I'm going to have to move you a bit, just to check for injuries. This may hurt a little.
JACOB: No. Don't move me. The RESIDENT ignores him. JACOB screams.
RESIDENT: I don't have to ask if you can feel Goddamn it. I want Louis.
JACOB: Goddamn it. I want Louis.
NURSE: Who's Louis?
RESIDENT: He's out of it. I'm taking him down to X-ray. An ORDERLY pushes the gurney through a pair of sliding doors. JACOB tries to get up but the pain keeps him immobilized.
JACOB: Where are you taking me? Where am I?
ORDERLY: You know where you are. JACOB, panicked, tries again to get up but to no effect. He glances to the side and sees mournful CREATURES being led into dark rooms. No one fights or struggles. We hear muffled screams from behind closed doors. Occasionally he glances inside the rooms and sees mangled bodies in strange contraptions, people in rusty iron lungs, and hanging from metal cages. Dark eyes peer out in horror. In one room a baseboard heater bursts into flame. No one seems concerned. A door opens. A bicycle with plastic streamers on the handlebars lies crushed and mangled. One of its wheels is still spinning. JACOB cries out but it is not his voice we hear. Rather it is a familiar unearthly roar. His whole body stiffens. As he rounds the corner he sees a figure, its head vibrating in endless terror. it is the same image he has seen before. JACOB screams.
JACOB: Oh God! The "DOCTORS" laugh. There is the sound of a huge door closing. JACOB is left in semi-darkness. Suddenly a new group of "DOCTORS" emerges from the shadows. They are carrying sharp surgical instruments. They surround JACOB, their eyes glistening as bright as their blades. JACOB is panting and sweating in fear. One of the "DOCTORS" leans over JACOB. He gasps with horror. It is JEZZIE.
JACOB: She pays no attention to him. He stares at her, THE CAMERA TILTING DOWN HER BODY. As it gets to her foot we see it is a decaying mass, swarming with maggots. The "DOCTORS" laugh. They take great pleasure in his suffering. Their voices are strange and not human. Each utterance contains a multitude of contradictory tones, sincere and compassionate, taunting and mocking at the same time. The confusion of meanings is a torment of its own.
JEZZIE!: She pays no attention to him. He stares at her, THE CAMERA TILTING DOWN HER BODY. As it gets to her foot we see it is a decaying mass, swarming with maggots. The "DOCTORS" laugh. They take great pleasure in his suffering. Their voices are strange and not human. Each utterance contains a multitude of contradictory tones, sincere and compassionate, taunting and mocking at the same time. The confusion of meanings is a torment of its own.
JACOB: ( continuing ) Get me out of here.
"DOCTOR": Where do you want to go?
JACOB: Take me home.
"DOCTOR": ( they all laugh ) This is your home. You're dead.
JACOB: Dead? No. I just hurt my back. I'm not dead.
"DOCTOR": What are you then?
JACOB: I'm alive.
"DOCTOR": Then what are you doing here?
JACOB: I don't know. I don't know. This isn't happening.
"DOCTOR": What isn't happening?
JACOB: Let me out of here!
"DOCTOR": There is no out of here. You've been killed. Don't you remember? A "DOCTOR" approaches JACOB. As he turns, we notice with horror that he has no eyes or eye sockets. He extracts a long needle from his belt and positions it over JACOB's head. Like a divining rod it locates a particular point near the crown of his head. With a powerful thrust the "DOCTOR" shoves the needle into JACOB's skull and pushes it slowly into his brain. JACOB howls.
"DOCTOR": No! That was years ago! I've lived years since then.
JACOB: No! That was years ago! I've lived years since then.
"DOCTOR": It's all been a dream.
JACOB: No! The army did this to me! They've done something to my brain. Jezzie! I want my boys! Sarah! I'm not dead! I want my family! The "DOCTORS" laugh and back away, disappearing into the darkness.
NURSE: He's still pretty doped up. I don't think he'll be able to talk yet and I doubt that he'll recognize you.
SARAH: I just want to see him.
JED: ( eating a Snickers bar ) Dad. Hi. It's us. We just found out.
ELI: You look terrible. Does that hurt?
NURSE: I'll be outside if you need me.
SARAH: Jake. It's me. We heard what I'm not dead. I am not dead.
JACOB: ( his voice hoarse, nearly whispering ) I'm not dead. I am not dead.
SARAH: No. Of course you're not. You've just hurt your back. That's all. You're going to be fine. It'll just take some time.
JED: A month, they said.
ELI: ( trying to joke ) You just hang in there, Dad.
SARAH: ( smacking him ) That's not funny. ( she reaches over and rubs JACOB's brow ) What a mess, huh? God I wish there was something I could do. I love you, Jacob. For whatever that's worth. I There is a sudden sound of "DOCTORS" laughing. JACOB jerks his head painfully, but does not see them.
JACOB: ( yelling at the unseen voice ) No! Oh God.
SARAH: Jacob, what can I do?
JACOB: Save me! JACOB's plea confuses SARAH. She responds with a kiss.
NURSE: Well, don't we look better this morning? That was a hard night, wasn't it?
JACOB: Where am I?
NURSE: Lennox Hospital.
JACOB: I'm awake?
NURSE: You look awake to me. Here. Drink some of this.
JACOB: ( staring at her intently ) Where's Sarah? Where did she go? ( the NURSE gives him a strange look ) She was here .
NURSE: No. No. You haven't had any visitors.
JACOB: That's a lie. My family was here.
NURSE: I'm sorry.
JACOB: Last night! They were as real as you The NURSE smiles and nods in appeasement.
JACOB: This is not a dream! This is my life.
NURSE: Of course it is. What else could it She giggles nervously. There is a funny glint in her eyes. JACOB looks away. He doesn't want to see it.
OMIT: INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - EVENING There is a loud commotion in the HALL. We see LOUIS SCHWARTZ, JACOB's chiropractor, screaming JACOB's name.
LOUIS: Jacob! Jacob Singer! JACOB yells.
JACOB: Louis! I'm here! In here!
JACOB: NURSE 1 You can't go in there!
LOUIS!: NURSE 1 You can't go in there!
NURSE 1: You can't go in there!
ORDERLY: You're going to have to leave. LOUIS stares furiously at JACOB stretched out on the traction apparatus. He begins to yell.
LOUIS: Good God, Jake. What have they done? What is this, the Middle Ages? And they call this modern medicine. This is barbaric! Barbaric! It's okay, Jake. It's not serious. I'll get you out of here. What is this, the Inquisition? Why don't you just burn him at the stake and put him out of his misery? LOUIS charges over to the traction equipment and begins working the pulleys that suspend JACOB over the bed. The NURSES and ORDERLIES become instantly hysterical and start screaming.
ORDERLY: What the hell do you think . ?
LOUIS: Don't you come near me.
NURSE 2: You can't do that!
LOUIS: What is this, a prison? Stay back.
NURSE 1: You can't. Call the police. One of the ORDERLIES lunges at LOUIS who swings back at him with one of the pulley chains. It just misses.
LOUIS: ( to the ORDERLIES ) You take one step and I'll wrap this around your neck. LOUIS lowers JACOB into a wheelchair while holding the others at bay.
LOUIS: ( continuing ) Hold on, Jake, we're getting out of NURSES and ORDERLIES part as he pushes him quickly from the room.
OMIT: INT. CHIROPRACTIC OFFICE - EVENING LOUIS helps JACOB over to an adjusting table in a room that, compared with the hospital, is comfortable and serene. He pushes a lever and the table rises to a vertical position. JACOB leans against it and rides it down to a horizontal position. Every moment is agony for him.
LOUIS: Half an hour from now and you'll be walking out of here all by yourself. Mark my words. Well, you've done it to yourself this time, haven't you?
JACOB: ( nearly whispering ) Am I dead, Louis? ( LOUIS leans over to hear ) Am I dead?
LOUIS: ( smiling ) From a slipped disc? That'd be a I was in Hell. I've been there. It's horrible. I don't want to die, Louis.
JACOB: I was in Hell. I've been there. It's horrible. I don't want to die, Louis.
LOUIS: Well, I'll see what I can do about I've seen it. It's all pain.
JACOB: I've seen it. It's all pain.
LOUIS: ( working on JACOB's spine like a master mechanic ) You ever read Meister Eckart? ( JACOB shakes his head "no" ) How did you ever get your Doctorate without reading Eckart? ( LOUIS takes hold of JACOB's legs and yanks them swiftly ) Good. Okay, let's turn over gently. Right side. JACOB turns to his left. LOUIS shakes his head in dismay.
LOUIS: The other "right," okay? You're a regular basket case, you know that? Eckart saw Hell, too. LOUIS positions JACOB's other arm, bends his legs, and then pushes down on his thigh. His spine moves with a cracking sound. JACOB groans.
LOUIS: ( continuing ) You know what he said? The only thing that burns in Hell is the part of you that won't let go of your life; your memories, your attachments. They burn 'em all away. But they're not punish- ing you, he said. They're freeing your soul. Okay, other side. He helps JACOB and repositions him. Again he pushes and the spine ( continuing ) Wonderful. So the way he sees it, if you're frightened of dying and hold- ing on, you'll see devils tearing your life away. But if you've made your peace then the devils are really angels freeing you from the earth. It's just a matter of how you look at it, that's all. So don't worry, okay? Relax. Wiggle your toes. JACOB's toes dance as LOUIS gives him a quick, unexpected jab to the lower vertebrae in his back.
LOUIS: ( continuing ) Wonderful. So the way he sees it, if you're frightened of dying and hold- ing on, you'll see devils tearing your life away. But if you've made your peace then the devils are really angels freeing you from the earth. It's just a matter of how you look at it, that's all. So don't worry, okay? Relax. Wiggle your toes. JACOB's toes dance as LOUIS gives him a quick, unexpected jab to the lower vertebrae in his back.
LOUIS: ( continuing ) Perfect. We got it. ( LOUIS pushes a lever and the table rises back up ) Okay. Let's just give it a little try. See if you can stand.
JACOB: What? By myself?
LOUIS: You can do it. Come on. Easy. Just give it a try. JACOB steps cautiously away from the table. He moves hesitantly, with deliberate restraint. LOUIS encourages him like a faith healer coaxing the lame. His first steps have an aura of the miraculous about them. JACOB walks slowly, without help. LOUIS smiles impishly. He looks like a giant cherub.
LOUIS: LOUIS puts his arm around him. Then JACOB tries again, gradually rediscovering his balance and strength. With each step his confidence returns. LOUIS is pleased. Then, suddenly, without warning, JACOB turns and heads toward the door.
LOUIS: What are you doing?
JACOB: There's something I've gotta take care of, Louis.
LOUIS: What are you talking about? You can barely stand.
JACOB: I'm walking, aren't I?
LOUIS: Jake, you need to rest.
JACOB: Not tonight, Louis. No more rest. He walks slowly out the door. LOUIS starts to go after him. JACOB turns around and shakes his head "no." The look on his face is firm and defiant. LOUIS stands back and lets him go.
JACOB: I love you, Louis.
JACOB: Listen to me. There were four companies in our batallion. Five hundred men. Seven of us were left when it was over. Seven! Four companies engaged in an enemy offensive that not one of us who survived can remember fighting.
BYSTANDERS: Use the torch!
ONLOOKER: Shut up! Let him talk! POLICE AMBULANCES are arriving at the scene. FIREMEN ready hoses at nearby hydrants. T.V. CAMERAS are rolling.
JACOB: ( shouting ) You don't forget a battle where 500 men were killed. They did something to us. I want to know the truth, the goddamn truth. We have a right to ( he yells toward the cameras ) Are you getting all this? I want this on national T.V. I want the whole country, the whole world to know. He holds up the torch. A loudspeaker blares through the crowd.
VOICE: Throw that torch away, young man. Give yourself up. You're under For what? For seeking the truth?
JACOB: For what? For seeking the truth?
VOICE: Please come quietly.
JACOB: You come near me and I'll blow us all We're not going to hurt you.
VOICE: We're not going to hurt you.
ONLOOKER: Give him a chance to talk!
JACOB: The army will deny it. They've falsified my records. They've lied to my lawyer, threatened my buddies. But they can't threaten me.
BYSTANDER: You tell 'em!
BYSTANDER: Use the torch!
VOICE: Okay, let's clear the area. Everyone Suddenly a lighted match flies in JACOB's direction. JACOB is enraged. He brandishes the torch at the crowd.
JACOB: What the fuck do you think you're Another match hurls toward him and dies in mid-air. PEOPLE on the fringe of the crowd begin to run. JACOB does not move.
VOICE: Clear the area. This is an order!
JACOB: What is wrong with you? We hear laughter from PEOPLE in the crowd. As JACOB looks out into some of their eyes he sees demons looking back. One of them throws another match. Crazed, JACOB runs toward them. PEOPLE jump back. Suddenly JACOB freezes. Standing on the sidelines, he sees one of the ARMY OFFICIALS who trapped him in the car. He is reaching for a gun. JACOB, stunned, yells at the top of hhis lungs.
JACOB: With a defiant roar, he hurls the torch straight up into the air. We see it from high above the crowd spinning higher and higher. All eyes stare upward watching it in a kind of wonder. Then, reaching its apex, just below the camera, it begins its descent. The eyes of the crowd turn to fear. SOMEONE yells.
NO!: With a defiant roar, he hurls the torch straight up into the air. We see it from high above the crowd spinning higher and higher. All eyes stare upward watching it in a kind of wonder. Then, reaching its apex, just below the camera, it begins its descent. The eyes of the crowd turn to fear. SOMEONE yells.
ONLOOKER: He'll burn us all! Screams fill the air as PEOPLE scramble to escape the potential conflagration. Only JACOB remains motionless, standing silently, almost heroically, in the middle of it all. Suddenly the torch hits the ground and a pool of gasoline ignites with a blinding flare that sends flames shooting in all directions. PEOPLE panic. T.V. REPORTERS and CAMERAMEN run for their lives. The ARMY OFFICIALS run, too. The flames travel toward the Army Headquarters and rush along the curb. Water hoses are trying to douse them as they spread. JACOB, surprisingly untouched by the fire, walks slowly through the frightened crowds, as if in a daze. Viewed through the flames the scene momentarily resembles a vision of Hell.
JACOB: Who's there? Who is it? JACOB struggles to rinse the soap from his eyes. They are burning. There is a shadow behind the curtain.
JACOB: ( continuing ) Goddamn it! Who's there? JACOB rubs his eyes, fighting to see. Suddenly the shower curtain is thrown back. JACOB backs against the wall. A hand reaches in and pulls his nipple, pinching hard.
JEZZIE: It's just me.
JACOB: Who else were you expecting?
JEZZIE: Who else were you expecting?
JACOB: Let go!
JEZZIE: Where were you, Jake? Where've you been? Why haven't you called?
JACOB: Stay away from me, Jez.
JEZZIE: I want to know. You tell me!
JACOB: You wanna know? Turn on the T.V. Watch the fucking news! He pushes her away and jumps out of the shower. CUT TO JACOB dressing and piling the last of his clothes into his suitcase. JEZZIE, in a robe, is watching him.
JEZZIE: Why are you doing this to me? You can't just go away like that.
JACOB: I can do anything I want. She stares at him with confusion. THE PHONE RINGS.
JACOB: It might be for me.
JEZZIE: It might be for me.
JACOB: I'm not here. You haven't seen me.
JEZZIE: ( picking up the receiver ) Hello . No. He's not here. I haven't seen him all night . I don't know when . What? Tell him ( JACOB looks up ) Vietnam? . What experiments? JACOB lunges for the phone.
JACOB: Hello. This is Jacob Singer. God almighty! . Yes. Yes. Right. Where would you like to meet? How will I know you. Okay. I'll be there. He hangs up the phone and stands silently for a moment.
JEZZIE: Who was that?
JACOB: A chemist. Part of a chemical warfare unit out of Saigon. He said he knows me and that I'll know him when I see him.
JEZZIE: I have no idea. I was right. There were experiments. I knew it. I knew it. My God.
JACOB: I have no idea. I was right. There were experiments. I knew it. I knew it. My God.
JEZZIE: How do you know he's telling the JACOB stares at JEZZIE for several moments but does not respond. The 11:00 NEWS is coming on. JACOB's image can be seen on the screen. We hear the NEWSCASTER speaking.
NEWSCASTER: Leading the news tonight, a bizarre demonstration on the steps of the U.S. Army Recruiting Headquarters, in downtown Manhattan. Jacob Singer, an alleged Vietnam vet .
JACOB: Alleged? Alleged?
NEWSCASTER: . challenged the United States Army to admit conducting secret experi- ments involving hundreds of American soldiers during the Vietnam war. JEZZIE stares at the T.V., dumbfounded. JACOB takes his suitcase and hurries to the front door. He opens it a crack and peers into the hallway. JEZZIE runs after him.
JEZZIE: ( almost threatening ) Don't leave me, Jake.
MICHAEL: Jacob? Hi. I'm Michael Newman. Friends call me Mike. JACOB is startled when he sees him. He is the same YOUNG MAN who has appeared throughout the film, assisting JACOB in moments of crisis.
MICHAEL: ( continuing ) Surprised, huh? I told you you'd know me. I've been tracking you for a long time. I just wish I'd spoken to you before tonight.
JACOB: I don't get it. Who are you? Why have you been following me?
MICHAEL: Observation, mainly. Clinical study. You were one of the survivors. A POLICE CAR passes them on the street. MICHAEL grabs JACOB's shoulder and turns him away nervously.
MICHAEL: ( continuing ) Come on, we're not safe around here.
MICHAEL: So first I'm arrested, right? Best LSD I ever made, right down the drain. I figure this is it, twenty years in the joint, if I'm lucky. That was '68.
JACOB: Long time ago.
MICHAEL: ( nodding his head ) Next thing I know I'm on Rikers Island. Ever been there? ( JACOB shakes his head ) Suddenly they take me from my cell to the visitors room with those bank teller windows, you know. Four army colonels, medals up their asses, are standing on the other side. They tell me if I'll come to Vietnam for two years, no action, mind you, just work in a lab, they'll drop all the charges and wipe the record clean. Well, I'd only been in jail for thirteen hours and I already knew that Nam couldn't be any worse.
JACOB: Shows how much you knew.
MICHAEL: No shit. They had me by the balls. Next thing I know I'm in Saigon . in a secret lab synthesizing mind- altering drugs. Not the street stuff mind you. They had us isolating special properties. The dark side, you know? They wanted a drug that increased aggressive tendencies.
JACOB: Yeah, sure. We were losing the war.
MICHAEL: Right. They were worried. They figured you guys were too soft. They wanted something to stir you up, tap into your anger, you know? And we did it. The most powerful thing I ever saw. Even a bad trip, and I had my share, never compared to the fury of the Ladder.
JACOB: The Ladder?
MICHAEL: That's what they called it. A fast trip right down the ladder. Right to the primal fear, the base anger. I'm tellin' you, it was powerful stuff. But I don't need to tell you. You know. JACOB can barely catch his breath, the information he is receiving is so powerful to his mind.
MICHAEL: ( continuing ) We did experiments on jungle monkeys. They bashed each other's heads in, gouged out their eyes, chewed off their tails. The brass loved it. Then they made us try it on Charlie. ( he pauses ) They took these POW's, just kids really, and put 'em in a courtyard. We fed 'em huge doses of the stuff. ( he stops for a moment; a tear rolls down his cheek ) They were worse than the monkeys. I never knew men could do such things. The whole thing still blows me away. MICHAEL stands up and begins walking in circles around the PIER. JACOB, astounded, gets up and walks beside him.
MICHAEL: ( continuing ) Anyway, this big offensive was coming up. Everyone knew it; Time Magazine, Huntley-Brinkley. And the brass was scared 'cause they knew we couldn't win. Morale was down. It was gettin' ugly in the States. Hell, you Like it was yesterday.
JACOB: Like it was yesterday.
MICHAEL: A couple days later they decided to use the Ladder, on one test battalion. Yours. Just in an infintessimal dose in the food supply, to prove its effectiveness in the field. They were sure your unit would have the highest kill ratio in the whole goddamn offensive. And you did, too. But not the way they JACOB is beginning to shake. MICHAEL pulls a container of pills out of his jacket pocket.
MICHAEL: ( continuing ) Hey, want something to calm you down? Made 'em myself. JACOB shakes his head no.
JACOB: None of us can remember that night. I get flashes of it but they don't make sense. We saw shrinks for years. But nothing they did could ever touch it. What happened? Was there ever an A couple of days later. It was fierce. You guys never saw it.
MICHAEL: A couple of days later. It was fierce. You guys never saw it.
JACOB: But there was an attack. I can still see them coming. There was a fight, wasn't there?
MICHAEL: Yeah. But not with the Cong.
JACOB: Who then? He hesitates, obviously uncomfortable. His eyes grow puffy. He looks at the river for a moment and then turns to JACOB.
MICHAEL: You killed each other. JACOB's mouth drops open. The words hit him like a truck.
ROD: Oh my God! WHAT'S HAPPENING? JACOB looks up from the trench and sees a continuing wave of AMERICAN SOLDIERS bearing down on them. FRANK jumps up, knocking JACOB to the ground and slamming his rifle into JACOB's back. As he spins around JACOB sees another SOLDIER charging at him. His bayonet is aimed at JACOB's stomach. For the first time JACOB remembers the face of his attacker. He is a YOUNG MAN, about 19 years old, clean cut, wearing glasses. The two men stare at each other in terrible confusion. It seems like a moment out of time. And then the SOLDIER lurches forward and rams his bayonet deep into JACOB's abdomen. CUT TO MICHAEL BACK ON THE PIER. JACOB is ashen-faced.
MICHAEL: It was brother against brother. No discrimination. You tore each other to pieces. I knew it would happen. I warned them. I WARNED THEM. But I was just a hippie chemist, right? Jesus! And I helped 'em make the stuff . I talked to the guys who bagged the bodies. They're in worse shape than you, believe me. They saw what was left. It's a blessing you don't remember. Of course the brass covered the whole thing up right away. Blamed it all on a surprise attack. I needed to find you. The Ladder was my baby. Tears start flowing down MICHAEL's face. He wipes them with his sleeve. It takes him a moment to regain his composure. JACOB is shivering. MICHAEL takes off his jacket, drapes it over JACOB, and leads him to the wooden planks overhanging the water. They sit and gaze at the
MICHAEL: I always suspected the effects might come back. That's why I had to follow you. I had a hell of a time getting hold of your records.
JACOB: If you knew, why didn't you say The truth can kill, my friend. Five hundred men died out there. This isn't a story they'd ever want out. When Paul's car blew up I realized the scope of the thing. I knew they meant business.
MICHAEL: The truth can kill, my friend. Five hundred men died out there. This isn't a story they'd ever want out. When Paul's car blew up I realized the scope of the thing. I knew they meant business.
JACOB: So why tell me now?
MICHAEL: Because I can get rid of the demons. I can block the Ladder. I have an antidote. We can kill them off, chemically speaking. They'll all disappear. It's chemistry, my friend. I know. I created it. Come with me. I can help.
JACOB: You come here often?
MICHAEL: Sometimes. When it's convenient.
JACOB: How do I know this isn't just some kind of, you know, seduction or Hey, I'm not the problem. You've got bigger problems than me. MICHAEL reaches into his pocket and casually extracts a vial.
MICHAEL: Hey, I'm not the problem. You've got bigger problems than me. MICHAEL reaches into his pocket and casually extracts a vial.
MICHAEL: ( continuing ) I came up with the formula back in Nam but I never got a chance to use I'd hoped I'd never have to. Just open your mouth and stick out your What is it?
JACOB: I'd hoped I'd never have to. Just open your mouth and stick out your What is it?
MICHAEL: I'd hoped I'd never have to. Just open your mouth and stick out your What is it?
JACOB: What is it?
MICHAEL: Don't worry. Take it. It'll free your head. Come on.
JACOB: ( fearful ) I don't know.
MICHAEL: "Yea though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death I shall fear no evil," but no one ever said I wouldn't be shittin' in my pants every step of the way, huh? Stick out your tongue. That'a boy. Now why don't you just lie down and relax.
JACOB: One drop?
MICHAEL: It's strong stuff. JACOB stretches out on the bed. He stares up at the ceiling and examines its pock-marked lunar look. Long cracks and shallow craters erode the surface. It is an alien terrain.
JACOB: I think I'm falling asleep.
MICHAEL: Pleasant dreams. The words send a jolt through JACOB's body. He tries to get up but can't. He's frightened.
JACOB: I can't move.
MICHAEL: Just relax.
JACOB: What's happening? Help me. The ceiling begins to rumble. Cracks split wide open. Huge crevasses tear through the plaster. JACOB's world is crumbling. He stares in horror as DEMONIC FORMS attempt to surge through the rupture above him. Piercing eyes and sharp teeth glimmer in the darkness. Hooved feet and pointed claws clamor to break through.
JACOB: ( continuing )
HELP ME!: Instantly MICHAEL appears standing over him. He is holding the vial with the antidote. He draws an eyedropper full of the fluid and holds it over JACOB's mouth.
MICHAEL: Take it! JACOB fights him, but MICHAEL forces the entire contents of the eyedropper down his throat. JACOB gags. He tries to spit it out, but Suddenly the ceiling erupts in violent clashes as whole chunks break off and collide like continental plates. The collisons wreak havoc on the DEMONS, chopping and dismembering them. Body parts fall from the ceiling like a Devil's rain. Horrible screams echo from the other side.
MICHAEL: ( continuing ) Don't fight it. It's your own mind. It's your own fears. Flashes of light and dark storm over JACOB's head, thundering like a war in the heavens. It is a scene of raw power and growing catastrophe. It builds in fury and rage until suddenly the ceiling explodes. JACOB's eyes stare into the formlessness expanding around him. All space is becoming a dark liquid void. Gradually the liquid grows bluer, clearer. There is an undulating sense to the imagery, a feeling of womb-like comfort. Strange lights appear and sparkle before us like sunlight on the ocean. JACOB is rushing upward, toward the surface. With the delirious sound of water giving way to air, JACOB breaks through. To his amazement, he finds himself floating out-stretched on shimmering sunlit water. Above him are clouds of such wondrous beauty that they cannot possibly be of the earth. Pillars of golden light reach down from the heavens creating a cathedral of light. It is a vision of heaven, a vast, almost mythic paradise. JACOB is awed. A sudden movement catches his attention. He looks over and sees MICHAEL standing before him. Only MICHAEL looks different. His face seems to radiate an inner light, a transcendental beauty. JACOB is nearly blinded by his presence and must shield his eyes to look at him.
MICHAEL: So, how you doin'? The casualness of the words catches JACOB by surprise. He sits up. To his shock and amazement, he finds that he is back in THE HOTEL ROOM. MICHAEL is standing at the foot of the bed. JACOB is totally disoriented. His eyes move slowly around the room, taking everything in. He doesn't speak.
MICHAEL: ( continuing ) It was better than you expected, huh? JACOB just stares at him for a while and then suddenly begins to laugh. It is a huge laugh, full of energy and life.
MICHAEL: ( continuing ) And no more demons. I told you they'd be gone.
JACOB: I don't believe this. It's a miracle, Michael. A miracle.
MICHAEL: Better living through chemistry, that's my motto.
JACOB: It was paradise, Michael. You showed it to me. You were there.
MICHAEL: Well that's good to know.
JACOB: Mike, it was real. It was glorious.
MICHAEL: Glorious. I'm not surprised. I fed you enough of that stuff to send a horse to heaven. I'm just glad you came back.
JACOB: I would have stayed there if I could.
MICHAEL: I'm sure. You've got nothing but troubles waitin' for you here. He points to two POLICEMEN on the far side of the SQUARE.
MICHAEL: ( taking JACOB's arm ) Come on.
MICHAEL: Here. I've got every credit card ever printed. Take this. Stay here till you can arrange to get away. It's on No. I couldn't.
JACOB: No. I couldn't.
MICHAEL: What? You want the Plaza? Don't be foolish. Here. Take this, too. This is my place on Prince Street. It's got my phone, everything. Call if you need me . but you won't. Everything's gonna work out. You just get outta town as fast as you can. The New York police can be effective when they want to be.
JACOB: I don't know what to say.
MICHAEL: Save the words . Just send back my credit card. MICHAEL laughs, hugs JACOB, and walks away.
JEZZIE: What are you doing here? Are you all right? How do you expect to pay for Everyone's looking for you, Jake. I dodged people all over the place, reporters, police. I don't know what you're gonna do.
JACOB: I'm gonna make love to you. That's what I'm gonna do.
JEZZIE: Are you out of your mind?
JACOB: Yep. Finally. I love you, Jez.
JEZZIE: God, I can't keep up with all your Me neither.
JACOB: Me neither.
JEZZIE: What's gotten into you? JACOB grins. CUT TO JACOB and JEZZIE lying in bed gently caressing one another. For all his ardor JACOB is exhausted from the events of the preceding day. While stroking JEZZIE's hair he begins to fall asleep. JEZZIE crawls on top of him and shoves her hand down his pants. JACOB smiles. DISSOLVE TO JACOB and JEZZIE making love.
JEZZIE: It's amazing, you know, that a drug could change things like that, destroy a life and then give it back. It's hard to believe that the world could be so hellish on day and like heaven the next.
JACOB: I tell you, it was so wonderful. I felt like a little boy. I saw Paradise, Jezzie.
JEZZIE: It's so hard to believe. There is a knock at the door. JACOB throws on a bathrobe. JEZZIE jumps under the sheets.
JACOB: Who's there?
JEZZIE: This is one of my dreams, Jake. Ever since I was a little girl. I never thought it would happen.
JACOB: Stick with me, kid. JEZZIE smiles.
JEZZIE: I want to go with you, Jake. Wherever you go.
JACOB: It's not practical, Jez. It'll be hard enough alone.
JEZZIE: I can waitress. I'm good.
JACOB: No. Things are too hot. Later. I'll send for you.
JEZZIE: I promise.
JACOB: I promise.
JEZZIE: No. I'm a marked man, Jez. I'm the only one left. I don't want to expose you to that. It's not right for you or me. Be reasonable.
JACOB: No. I'm a marked man, Jez. I'm the only one left. I don't want to expose you to that. It's not right for you or me. Be reasonable.
JEZZIE: Reasonable? Reasonable? Jake . You're gettin' me angry.
JACOB: I love you when you're angry.
JEZZIE: Oh yeah? Try leavin' without me. JACOB laughs. JEZZIE doesn't. Unexpectedly she grabs JACOB and pushes him onto the bed. In seconds they are all over each other, their clothes flying in all directions. They seem as happy as could be.
OMIT: INT. GRAND CENTRAL STATION - DAY JACOB enters GRAND CENTRAL STATION. He checks out all the PEOPLE around him. Not a DEMON in sight. Hurrying to the TICKET WINDOW he gets in line. The TICKET SELLER looks up.
JACOB: Chicago. One way. For tomorrow.
SELLER: How many?
JACOB: That'll be $119.75. JACOB pulls out MICHAEL's credit card. The SELLER rings it up. While he is waiting JACOB notices a POLICEMAN looking at him. The stare unsettles him. The SELLER hands JACOB his ticket. He takes it and hurries into the CROWD. Looking back he notices the POLICEMAN is following him.
SELLER: That'll be $119.75. JACOB pulls out MICHAEL's credit card. The SELLER rings it up. While he is waiting JACOB notices a POLICEMAN looking at him. The stare unsettles him. The SELLER hands JACOB his ticket. He takes it and hurries into the CROWD. Looking back he notices the POLICEMAN is following him.
JACOB: Goddamn it! Fucking pervert. Two lips form around the hole. A tongue wags obscenely.
VOICE: Dream on!
JACOB: ( shocked ) The mouth is gone. JACOB hears the stall door fly open and feet running from the room. He jumps up and grabs his pants. He dashes out of the MEN'S ROOM. He hears footsteps and chases after them.
OMIT: INT. SOHO LOFT BUILDING - EVENING JACOB runs up the stairs in a SOHO LOFT BUILDING. It is a dingy, industrial staircase, poorly lit. He reaches a door with MICHAEL's name painted on it in large black letters. He knocks loudly. There is no answer. He pounds on it. Another door opens on the floor above. A head sticks out.
MAN: You lookin' for Mike?
JACOB: ( panting hard ) Where is he?
MAN: Don't know. Hasn't picked his mail up in days. It's not like him. JACOB has a frenzied look in his eyes. He searches around the staircase and sees a pile of lumber stacked in a corner. He grabs a two-by-four and lunges at the door.
MAN: What the hell are you doing? JACOB doesn't answer. He smashes wildly at the door until the lock flies open.
MAN: Oh my God! JACOB stumbles to pull himself up. He is in a state of unrelieved panic. He runs past the MAN and spills out the doorr. He takes two and three stairs at a time, nearly flying to the street.
JACOB: ( barely audible ) I'm going to Brooklyn.
DRIVER: Sorry, Mac. Not with me you're not. I get lost in Brooklyn.
JACOB: I know the way. JACOB reaches into his pants pocket, pulls out a twenty dollar bill, and hands it to the DRIVER. He takes it.
JACOB: ( continuing ) Look, this is all the money I've got in the world. Take me home and it's . Where's your home? CUT TO THE TAXI heading down WEST BROADWAY, approaching the BROOKLYN BRIDGE, crossing the EAST RIVER, and driving through dark BROOKLYN
DRIVER: . Where's your home? CUT TO THE TAXI heading down WEST BROADWAY, approaching the BROOKLYN BRIDGE, crossing the EAST RIVER, and driving through dark BROOKLYN
DOORMAN: Dr. Singer. It's been a long time.
JACOB: ( greeting him warmly ) Hello, Sam.
DOORMAN: ( noticing JACOB's battered condition ) Are you all right?
JACOB: I'm okay.
DOORMAN: Do you want some help? I can call No, don't. But thanks.
JACOB: No, don't. But thanks.
JACOB: Hello. It's me.
JACOB: Hello? Is anybody home? Jed? Eli? Daddy's here. There is still no answer. JACOB is surprised. He peers into the dark LIVING ROOM and then walks to the KITCHEN. No one is around. A photo of JACOB, SARAH, AND THEIR BOYS is sitting on the counter. He picks it up and carries it with him through the apartment. He walks into his old BEDROOM and then into the BOYS' ROOM. The beds are still unmade. There is no one home. He sees his image in the BATHROOM mirror and turns away in disgust. He walks back to the LIVING ROOM. He is about to switch the lights on when he hears footsteps coming down the hall. He calls out.
JACOB: Sarah, is that you? I hope you don't mind. I needed to come home. JACOB is startled to see JEZZIE enter the room. She does not seem he usual self. She appears larger, more imposing.
JEZZIE: Hello, Jake. I knew you'd come here in the end. JACOB is nervous.
JACOB: What're you . ? Where's Sarah? Where are the boys?
JEZZIE: Sit down, Jake.
JACOB: Where are they?
JEZZIE: Sit down.
JACOB: No! What's going on? Where's my It's over, Jake. It's all over.
JEZZIE: It's over, Jake. It's all over.
JACOB: Where have they gone?
JEZZIE: Wake up. Stop playing with yourself. It's finished. JEZZIE stares at JACOB with a frightening, powerful glare. The edge of her coat rustles and flutters as she moves toward him. It is an innocent sound at first, but after a moment it transforms into something else, an obsessive flapping noise, the sound of a wing. JACOB's body feels the first waves of an inner tremor. His legs are What's going on?
JACOB: What's going on?
JEZZIE: Your capacity for self-delusion is remarkable, Dr. Singer. JEZZIE begins walking around the dark living room as she talks to him. Something about her walk is very unnatural. JACOB eyes her fearfully. In the darkness JEZZIE's movements become increasingly strange and elusive. We see her pass before a shadow and disappear within it, only to reappear, seconds later, in a doorway on the other side of the room. JACOB spins around, confused. Suddenly JEZZIE is inches from his face, although it seems like there has been no time for her to get there. Her movements are totally impossible, defying all logic, all physical laws.
JEZZIE: ( continuing ) What's wrong, Jake? ( she mocks him ) Forget to take your antidote?
JACOB: Who are you? What are you doing to me?
JEZZIE: You have quite a mind, Jake. I loved your friends. That chemist - the Ladder. What an imagination you have! JACOB freezes.
JEZZIE: ( continuing ) And your vision of paradise . fantastic! You're a real dreamer, you know that? Only it's time to wake up. JEZZIE has disappeared in the darkness of the room. Only the sounds of flapping wings remain. They grow louder and more menacing, whooshing past him with no visible source.
JEZZIE: ( continuing ) Your mind is crumbling, Jake. No more "army." No more conspiracies. You're dying, Dr. Singer. It's over. JACOB, frightened, turns toward the door as if to hurry out. "JEZZIE" ( continuing ) Where's to run, Jacob? Where's to go? JACOB pauses a moment and then turns to confront the terror behind him.
JEZZIE: ( continuing ) Where's to run, Jacob? Where's to go? JACOB pauses a moment and then turns to confront the terror behind him.
JACOB: WHO ARE YOU? How many times have you asked me that? How many times?
JEZZIE: How many times have you asked me that? How many times?
JACOB: TELL ME, DAMN YOU!
JEZZIE: ( with consummate power )
JACOB: ( whispering to himself ) This isn't happening. New terrible sounds arise, chain saws slashing through the air, knives, and sabers ripping through space with unrelenting anger. Guns fire and explode past his head. It is as though all the sounds of destruction are closing in on him. JACOB yells but his own voice is lost in the melee. Terrified, he looks heavenward, as if crying for help. Suddenly, from the noise, a calm voice rises, speaking, as if from a distance. It is LOUIS. JACOB is shocked to hear him. He stands If you're frightened of dying you'll see devils tearing you apart. If you've made your peace then they're angels freeing you from the world. The voice fades. JACOB just stands there, not sure what to do. And then the sounds return. Only now they are more terrifying than ever. Hideously loud, they become a cacophony of sounds, voices of parents, friends, lovers, the sounds of battle, fighting, and dying. JACOB looks up and sees the creature in the center of the room. All the sounds seem to emenate from it. The more JACOB stares at it the louder they become. After a moment, JACOB takes a huge breath. We sense a great resolve forming inside him. Then, slowly, courageously, he begins moving toward it. NEw and more terrifying noises assault JACOB, attempting to drive him back, but he will not be stopped. He continues walking toward the In the hallway a standing lamp slams sparking to the floor. It rolls back and forth like a living thing, with a maddening hypnotic regularity. Doors slam open and closed, unlatching, snapping, shutting, with deafening force. The room itself seems like an organic presence. It is alive, angry, and threatening. The CREATURE sits in the midst of the insanity like the source of madness itself. It writhes, contorts and vibrates with unstoppable fury. JACOB, terrified, but unrelenting, continues to approach it. AS THE CAMERA DRAWS CLOSER TO THE CREATURE'S HEAD the density of its featureless form overwhelms the screen. It is like staring into emptiness itself, the ultimate darkness. With superhuman effort JACOB grabs hold of the creature. It is like grabbing hold of a live wire. His body begins shaking uncontrollably like a man being electrocuted. He is flying in all directions but does not let go. His fingers claw at the creature's head. JACOB struggles defiantly with the monster. Suddenly a terrible voice emerges from within it.
CREATURE: WHO DO YOU THINK YOU'RE FIGHTING! JACOB does not respond. It cries out again.
CREATURE: WHO THE HELL DO YOU THINK YOU'RE Deep inside the darkness JACOB begins to make out the presence of a form, something writhing and tortured lurking before us. It looks briefly like an animal until we realize it is the image of a human face. It is covered by a dark suffocating film, like a mask. JACOB digs into it with all his might and pulls it off.
FIGHTING?: Deep inside the darkness JACOB begins to make out the presence of a form, something writhing and tortured lurking before us. It looks briefly like an animal until we realize it is the image of a human face. It is covered by a dark suffocating film, like a mask. JACOB digs into it with all his might and pulls it off.
JACOB: There is no response. Suddenly the music stops. JACOB freezes for a moment. He sees someone standing in the shadows at the other end.
JACOB: ( continuing ) Who is it? Who's there? Tentatively JACOB moves forward. As he draws closer he begins to see the outline of a child. Then, all of a sudden, he realizes who it is. His eyes well up as he stands there, the full impact of the moment registering inside him. It's his son, GABE. He is carrying the same musical lunch box we have seen before. The young boy smiles warmly at his father. It is the smile of an angel. JACOB swallows hard.
JACOB: ( continuing ) Gabe? Gabe! JACOB runs to his son. Unable to hold back the tears, he embraces him in a rush of love and emotion.
JACOB: ( continuing ) Gabe. Oh God. I don't believe . They hug one another over and over. JACOB, overcome, sits down on the stiars. After a moment GABE puts his arm around his father's shoulder in a gesture of surprising maturity and compassion. We sense for an instant that their roles have reversed. GABE reaches for JACOB's hand and gently encourages him to stand up. With a sweet tug GABE leads his father up the steps. Sunlight streams down from the top of the stiars, hitting the first landing. GABE is bathed in its warm glow. As JACOB reaches the landing, he too is surrounded by the comforting light. GABE hurries up the last set of stairs. JACOB turns to follow but is stunned by the brilliance of the light pouring in from above. Squinting, he cannot see his son. Then suddenly GABE steps back out of the light and takes his father's hand once more. His eyes sparkle with Come on Dad . You know what we've got? A sandbox just like the Williston's, only it's bigger and the sand's all white. You won't believe JACOB smiles at his son. GABE smiles at him. It is a moment of total euphoria. THE CAMERA HOLDS as they continue up the stairs.
GABE: Come on Dad . You know what we've got? A sandbox just like the Williston's, only it's bigger and the sand's all white. You won't believe JACOB smiles at his son. GABE smiles at him. It is a moment of total euphoria. THE CAMERA HOLDS as they continue up the stairs.
GABE: ( continuing ) And my parakeet. Remember, the one grandma let out of the cage? He's okay. And he's talking now. He knows my name. GABE's voice slowly trails off as he and his father disappear in the intenstity of the light. THE CAMERA HOLDS on the image. For a brief but stunning moment there appears to be a huge ethereal staircase shimmering before us. It rises up into infinite dimensions. Then the brilliance of its blinding light overwhelms the screen. Suddenly the brightness condenses into a smaller light source. It holds for a second and then flashes off. An overhead surgical lamp remains stubbornly in view.
DOCTOR: He's gone. CUT TO JACOB SINGER lying on an operating table in a large ARMY FIELD TENT in VIETNAM. The DOCTOR steps away. A NURSE rudely pulls a green sheet over his head. The DOCTOR turns to one of the aides and throws up his hands in defeat. AN ORDERLY wheels JACOB's body past rows of other DOCTORS and NURSES fighting to save lives. A YOUNG VIETNAMESE BOY pulls back a screen door to let them out of the tent. It is a bright, fresh morning. The sun is "JACOB'S LADDER" ( DELETED SCENES ) Bruce Joel Rubin
THE END: "JACOB'S LADDER" ( DELETED SCENES ) Bruce Joel Rubin
STERN: Thus at the core of today's discu- sion we find four fundamental doc- trines. First, that the world of matter and individual consciousness are both manifestations of one Divine One of the STUDENTS seems about to fall asleep and keeps nodding his head.
STERN: Even you, Mr. Palmer, are part of it, as amazing as that may seem. MR. PALMER sits up quickly in his seat as other STUDENTS smile.
STERN: Second, human beings are capable not only of kowledge about this Divine Re- ality by inference but can realize its existence by direct intuition, superior even to reason. A door opens in the upper reaches of the lecture hall. JACOB enters and walks quietly down the stairs to within hearing range of the professor.
STERN: Third, man possesses a double nature, an ego and an eternal self, what we call "spirit" or "soul." JACOB takes a seat at one of the desks. There is a pencil lying on it which he fingers distractedly.
STERN: Fourth, and most important, man's life on earth has only one end and purpose, to learn to let go of the separate ego and to identify with the Divine spark within. MR. PALMER is nodding off again.
STERN: Almost impossible to believe, isn't it Mr. Palmer, that somewhere in that unconscious head of yours lies the source of all consciousness?
PALMER: Yes, Sir. Very hard.
STERN: ( nodding his head ) Well now, having reached this apotheosis there seems little, if anything, left to say. So rather than try, you are dismissed. The STUDENTS seem surprised but not unhappy with the sudden dismissal. They quickly gather their books and begin the long climb to the exits. Only JACOB remains seated.
JACOB: Hello Prof. PROFESSOR STERN looks up and stares at KACOB for several seconds before recognizing him.
STERN: My oh my. Doctor Singer. Isn't this a happy surprise? JACOB comes down the aisle and clasps hands with his old
STERN: ( looking at JACOB's uni- form ) Are you in the service?
JACOB: The postal service. I'm a mailman.
STERN: ( surprised but non- judgemental ) Ah. Neither snow nor sleet, nor dark of night . I always admired that.
JACOB: ( smiling ) It's good to see you.
STERN: EXT. CITY COLLEGE - DAY JACOB AND PROFESSOR STERN walk down the city streets that constitute the CAMPUS of CITY COLLEGE.
STERN: And how is your wife? Sarah, no?
JACOB: ( shrugging his shoul- ders ) I haven't seen her in months.
STERN: ( understanding ) I'm with another woman now. We're both with the post office, Midtown, 34th Street branch.
JACOB: I'm with another woman now. We're both with the post office, Midtown, 34th Street branch.
STERN: Hmm. I don't suppose there are too many philosophers in the post office?
JACOB: Oh, you'd be surprised. They just don't have their doctorates, that's all.
STERN: ( he smiles ) Last I heard you were offered a posi- tion in the West somewhere. Tuscon was it?
JACOB: Oh, that goes way back. They had a hiring freeze, one of those last min- ute things. Bad timing for me though. Middle of the war. The draft. I'll tell you Prof, after Viet Nam . I didn't want to think anymore. I decided my brain was just too small an organ to comprehend this chaos.
STERN: ( looking at JACOB with affection ) Jacob, if it was any other brain but yours, I might agree. ( he pauses ) Tell me, does your lady friend know what a brilliant thinker, what a sub- lime intellect she's living with?
JACOB: ( smiling coyly ) I doubt it's my mind that interests her. I tell you Prof, she's a fiery ( with a fatherly demeanor ) Well, try not to get burned. You have a great mind, Jacob. Don't let anyone tempt you away from it.
STERN: ( with a fatherly demeanor ) Well, try not to get burned. You have a great mind, Jacob. Don't let anyone tempt you away from it.
JACOB: I've got a problem, Prof. More Augus- tine than Kierkegaard, if you know what I mean. I need to know about . demons.
STERN: ( surprised ) Demons, Jacob? Why demons? Are you writing . ?
JACOB: ( he pauses a moment ) I see them.
STERN: See them? What do you mean? Physically?
JACOB: ( hesitantly ) STERN pauses. He looks at JACOB. The intensity of his gaze is unsettling and JACOB reaches for his tea. The cup rattles.
STERN: I know very little about demons, Ja- cob, fleshy ones anyway. I know them as literary figures, biblical ones . Dante, Milton . but Jacob, this is the 20th Century. We don't see demons now.
JACOB: I see them, Prof. Everywhere. They're invading my life. A look of concern fills STERN's eyes.
JACOB: ( continuing ) Christ, I know how it sounds.
STERN: Have you considered a doctor? A psy- I don't want them. I'm not looking for analysis or drugs. It's too easy to dismiss as some kind of psychosis. It's more than that. I can feel it. I need you Prof. You're the only one I can talk to.
JACOB: ( suddenly uneasy ) I don't want them. I'm not looking for analysis or drugs. It's too easy to dismiss as some kind of psychosis. ( he pauses uncomforta- bly ) It's more than that. I can feel it. I need you Prof. You're the only one I can talk to.
STERN: I don't know what to say.
JACOB: I need your insight, your intuition. STERN sips his tea slowly. He is thinking.
STERN: Demons? I don't know what to tell you. It sounds like a spiritual mat- ter to me. The problem, Jacob, is that you have no context for it. You're a renegade Existentialist suf- fering demons a hundred years after Freud. How the hell am I supposed to make it fit?
JACOB: I'm afraid, Prof. Nothing makes Please help me.
STERN: ( trying to be delicate ) Jacob, I don't believe in demons, not in the empirical sense. I don't be- lieve in devils fighting for our souls. I don't believe in enternal damnation. I don't believe in other- worldly creatures tormenting us. We don't need them. We do a good enough job on ourselves.
JACOB: ( disturbed ) But I see them.
STERN: Look. I don't pretend to know what's going on inside your head. For all I know it's pathological and they should be pumping Valium into your veins by the quart. But if you're not willing to accept the help of sci- ence; and believe me, I admire you for that: then you'll have to do bat- tle on your own. What can I say? It's a lonely pilgrimage through our times even for the strongest souls. But to be pursued by . demons no less . There are no guides, Jacob. You wanna know what I'd do if I sud- denly started seeing demons? I'd hail the first taxi that came along, shoot over to Bellvue and beg them for shock treatment. I'm no saint.
JACOB: Hell, you think I am?
STERN: I'venever understood you, you know that? You were by far the best pupil I've ever had, bar none. Intellectu- ally, you were the most original, the most imaginative. Who knows, maybe you've been "elected" to see demons. Maybe you're in touch with . some- thing. Nothing would surprise me about you Jacob. Nothing. JACOB gazes at his old friend and mentor, frustration blazing in his eyes. They are both surprised to see tears form and run down his cheek. JACOB reaches for a napkin and dries them quickly. STERN, uncomfortable in the face of emotion, turns away.
VOICE: He's burning up.
VOICE: Total delirium.
VOICE: He'll never make it.
VOICE: That's some gash. His guts keep spilling out.
VOICE: Push 'em back.
VOICE: I think we're losing him. Suddenly the flickering rings begin to define a tangible image, a kind of CELESTIAL STAIRCASE, rising up into infinite dimensions. As we speed toward it, it grows increasingly majestic. The image is so awesome and other-worldly that it is difficult to grasp what is being seen. Music can be heard in the distance. It too is celestial in its beauty. Then, unexpectedly, it grows hard and insistent, like a heartbeat. Heavy breathing accompanies the sound. The image of the STAIRCASE shatters and disappears, replaced by intense flashes of red and blue light. The music grows louder and reaches a thundering crescendo. Then silence.
HAYES: The Reverend Norman Murphy, leader of one of the largest groups supporting the Armageddon Committee, told our cameras that we are no longer dealing in decades but years. THE REVEREND fills the T.V. screen.
MURPHY: The battleground is being readied. Our planet is the battlefield. Our souls are the prize. All the signs point to the inevitable confrontation between the forces of good and evil. People must choose sides. There is no draft evasions in this war. All are called. All must take up weapons. Are you prepared? That's the question we The toilet flushes and JACOB walks back into the LIVING ROOM and turns down the sound.
HAYES: Do you find people scoffing at you, Reverend? After all, there have been doomsayers for thousands of years and we're still here.
MURPHY: People are less apt to laugh these days. The prophecies are too close for comfort. I mean, all you have to do is watch the news.
HAYES: There are some who claim that your pessimism is defeatist and what the world needs now is hope, a positive I think the time for hope has passed. The seeds have been planted. We shall reap what we've sown. Pessimists, no. I think we are percieved as the only realists Other movement leaders agree. In an interview . Suddenly the telephone rings. It startles JACOB. He jumps. It rings again. He reaches down, turns off the T.V., and picks up the phone. His eyes continue to stare at the blank screen as he ADDENDUM 4: JACOB'S BEDROOM INT. JACOB'S BEDROOM - NIGHT THE BEDROOM is dark. JACOB and JEZZIE are making love. A half- smoked joint is smouldering in an ashtray by the bed. JEZZIE is poised on top of JACOB and his eyes are focused on her face. A hurricane lamp casts a warm glow over their bodies. Its flickering light plays games with JACOB's eyes and for a moment JEZZIE seems to disappear. JACOB reaches out for her breasts and his hands seem to vanish into the shadows dancing across her. With sudden, hallucinogenic impact, JACOB feels himself drawn into a starry universe opening from inside her. THE CAMERA plunges through her image into a galxy of stars and rushes toward one that is twinkling brightly. Pulsations of its light whiten the screen. Out of the whiteness appears a momentary flash of the CELESTIAL STAIRCASE, accompanied by sounds of sexual The STAIRCASE sparkles for an instant and then it's gone. The sparkle becomes a glimmer in JEZZIE's eye as her face fills the screen. She looks especially lovely and radiant. Her image moves with the lamplight. JACOB's face is ecstatic. He can barely talk and simply basks in JEZZIE's glow. Slowly, she leans forward and whispers in his ear.
MURPHY: I think the time for hope has passed. The seeds have been planted. We shall reap what we've sown. Pessimists, no. I think we are percieved as the only realists Other movement leaders agree. In an interview . Suddenly the telephone rings. It startles JACOB. He jumps. It rings again. He reaches down, turns off the T.V., and picks up the phone. His eyes continue to stare at the blank screen as he ADDENDUM 4: JACOB'S BEDROOM INT. JACOB'S BEDROOM - NIGHT THE BEDROOM is dark. JACOB and JEZZIE are making love. A half- smoked joint is smouldering in an ashtray by the bed. JEZZIE is poised on top of JACOB and his eyes are focused on her face. A hurricane lamp casts a warm glow over their bodies. Its flickering light plays games with JACOB's eyes and for a moment JEZZIE seems to disappear. JACOB reaches out for her breasts and his hands seem to vanish into the shadows dancing across her. With sudden, hallucinogenic impact, JACOB feels himself drawn into a starry universe opening from inside her. THE CAMERA plunges through her image into a galxy of stars and rushes toward one that is twinkling brightly. Pulsations of its light whiten the screen. Out of the whiteness appears a momentary flash of the CELESTIAL STAIRCASE, accompanied by sounds of sexual The STAIRCASE sparkles for an instant and then it's gone. The sparkle becomes a glimmer in JEZZIE's eye as her face fills the screen. She looks especially lovely and radiant. Her image moves with the lamplight. JACOB's face is ecstatic. He can barely talk and simply basks in JEZZIE's glow. Slowly, she leans forward and whispers in his ear.
HAYES: Other movement leaders agree. In an interview . Suddenly the telephone rings. It startles JACOB. He jumps. It rings again. He reaches down, turns off the T.V., and picks up the phone. His eyes continue to stare at the blank screen as he ADDENDUM 4: JACOB'S BEDROOM INT. JACOB'S BEDROOM - NIGHT THE BEDROOM is dark. JACOB and JEZZIE are making love. A half- smoked joint is smouldering in an ashtray by the bed. JEZZIE is poised on top of JACOB and his eyes are focused on her face. A hurricane lamp casts a warm glow over their bodies. Its flickering light plays games with JACOB's eyes and for a moment JEZZIE seems to disappear. JACOB reaches out for her breasts and his hands seem to vanish into the shadows dancing across her. With sudden, hallucinogenic impact, JACOB feels himself drawn into a starry universe opening from inside her. THE CAMERA plunges through her image into a galxy of stars and rushes toward one that is twinkling brightly. Pulsations of its light whiten the screen. Out of the whiteness appears a momentary flash of the CELESTIAL STAIRCASE, accompanied by sounds of sexual The STAIRCASE sparkles for an instant and then it's gone. The sparkle becomes a glimmer in JEZZIE's eye as her face fills the screen. She looks especially lovely and radiant. Her image moves with the lamplight. JACOB's face is ecstatic. He can barely talk and simply basks in JEZZIE's glow. Slowly, she leans forward and whispers in his ear.
JEZZIE: So tell me . am I still an angel?
JACOB: ( smiling broadly ) With wings. ( he strokes her hair ) You transport me, you know that? You carry me away.
JACOB: ( yelling at the top of his lungs )
NO!: Suddenly JEZZIE appears, the light from the BEDROOM flooding the paneled wall. The DEMON vanishes instantly.
JEZZIE: Jake, are you all . ? She stops dead in her tracks. CUT TO JACOB pressed up against the wall, defying gravity and logic, as though about to merge with the solid surface. His body holds there for a moment and then collapses to the floor. JEZZIE goes to him.
JEZZIE: Jake? Jake? He doesn't answer. He looks at JEZZIE with a blank stare. His body begins shaking.
JEZZIE: It's going to be all right, Jake. It's going to be all right. Don't be afraid. I've got you now.
JACOB: Hold me, Jezzie. Hold me. JEZZIE wraps herself around his shivering body and warms him with her own. The image seems tender and comforting until we notice JEZZIE's tongue darting nervously in and out. It looks strangely like a snake's.
JACOB: Oh God! The DEMONS laugh. There is the sound of a huge door closing. JACOB is left in darkness. The darkness is hallucinogenic. Fires appear beyond the boundaries of the wall; images of Dante's Inferno, souls of the dead in endless torment. JACOB is but one of countless beings sharing a vastness of torment. His own screams for help are lost in the magnitude of voices crying. Suddenly, out of the meancing shadows, a contingent of DEMONS emerges. They are carrying sharp surgical instruments. They surround JACOB, their eyes glistening as bright as their blades. JACOB is panting and sweating with fear. For an instant, one of the DEMONS looks like JEZZIE. JACOB calls out to her.
JACOB: Jezzie! Help me! The DEMONS laugh as she changes form. They take great pleasure in his suffering. Their voices are strange and not human. Each utterance contains a multitude of contradictory tones, sincere and compassionate, taunting and mocking at the same time. The confusion of meanings is a torment of its own.
JEZZIE: You're completely off your rocker, you know that? You'd think you fell on your head instead of your back. What are you planning to do, burn down the apartment along with your She begins to remove the gasoline can.
JACOB: ( yelling ) Don't you touch it. ( he glares at her ) JEZZIE lets go of the can and grabs the vacuum. She moves it furiously across the carpet. Suddenly JACOB sees her tongue darting in and out, unconsciously. She looks strange, not human. JACOB freezes. He yells out.
JACOB: Who are you? The sound of the vacuum cleaner drowns out his voice. He yells again. JEZZIE sees him and turns off the machine. His voice booms Who the hell are you? JEZZIE ignores the question and turns the vacuum cleaner back on. JACOB rolls over and pulls out the plug.
JACOB: ( continuing ) Who the hell are you? JEZZIE ignores the question and turns the vacuum cleaner back on. JACOB rolls over and pulls out the plug.
JACOB: Why won't you answer me?
JEZZIE: ( angry ) Cause you know goddamn well who I am.
JACOB: I don't know you.
JEZZIE: You've lived with me for two years.
JACOB: That doesn't mean shit. Where do you come from, huh? And I don't mean What do you want me to say? My mother's tummy?
JEZZIE: What do you want me to say? My mother's tummy?
JACOB: You know goddamn well what I mean.
JEZZIE: You're out of your fucking mind. I'm not gonna stand around here gettin' interrogated by you.
JACOB: Well leave then. Go to Hell.
JEZZIE: ( furious ) You son-of-a-bitch. Who do you think you are? I don't deserve this. Who takes care of you day and night? Who cleans the floor and washes your goddamn underwear? Well, I've had it. You flip out on your own, you ungrateful bastard. I'm done holding your hand. I don't want anything to do with you, you hear? Nothing! She storms out of the room, kicking the vacuum cleaner as she goes. JACOB can see flashes of her through the open crack of the bedroom door. Occasional curses and epithets hurl through the opening along with a flood of tears. JACOB catches glimpses of her as she grabs her coat from the hall closet and as she pulls her money out of the desk drawer. He can see the lamp as she shoves it to the floor and hears it shatter as she stomps on it with her foot. There is a blur as she heads to the front door and a deafening bang as she leaves. JACOB's eyes drift up to the ceiling. They hardly blink. He stares at the plaster, chipped and cracked, above him. Suddenly the cracks begin to move. JACOB jumps up. A DEMON is materializing over his head. JACOB yells and grabs hold of the extension pole for the vacuum cleaner. With a furious cry he begins jamming it at the ceiling. Rather than blot out the evolving image his attack helps to define it. JACOB slams harder. Plaster and wood lath cover the floor. The DEMON is gone. Panting hard, JACOB reaches for matches and the gasoline can. He stops and stares at them with great intensity.
JACOB: ( continuing )
HELP ME!: Instantly MICHAEL appears standing over him. He is holding the vial with the antidote. He draws an eyedropper full of the fluid and holds it over JACOB's mouth.
MICHAEL: Take it! JACOB fights him but MICHAEL forces the entire contents of the eyedropper down his throat. JACOB gags. He tries to spit it out, but can't. Suddenly the ceiling erupts in violent clashes as whole chunks break off and collide with one another like continental plates. The collisions wreak havoc on the DEMONS, chopping and dismembering them. Body parts fall from the ceiling like a Devil's rain. Horrible screams echo from the other side. Flashes of light and dark storm over JACOB's head, thundering like a war in the heavens. It is a scene of raw power and growing catastrophe. It builds in fury and rage until suddenly the ceiling explodes. Matter atomizes instantly. Trillions of particles hurl chaotically in all directions. The walls shatter into a dazzling brightness. For a moment there is a sense of intense forward movement, a rush toward oblivion. And then, suddenly, it stops. There is absolute quiet and stillness. JACOB's eyes stare into the formlessness sparkling around him. All space has become a shining void. Gradually faint pastel colors appear like colored molecules, dancing and spinning, redirecting space into new formations. They weave patterns of intricate complexity and stunning beauty. As the colors grow brighter and more vivid their abstraction gives way to solid form. A GARDEN SCENE emerges. It is a GARDEN OF LIGHT, a vast, almost mythic, Rousseau paradise. It radiates an intense shimmering light. JACOB's eyes are cpativated by the vision before him. A sudden movement catches his attention. He looks up and notices MICHAEL still standing beside him. MICHAEL, however, is rapidly changing form. It is a full, plastic, three-dimensional metamorphosis. His very flesh seems to expand and glow with its own inner light. His face shines and radiates an almost transcendental beauty. JACOB is nearly blinded by MICHAEL's presence and must shield his eyes to look at him. MICHAEL smiles an extraordinary and joyous smile that radiates such intense luminosity that JACOB has to squint to see it. Suddenly MICHAEL steps off the ground. He rises into the air and floats above JACOB. JACOB can barely breathe as he watches him. MICHAEL rises into a sky filled with orbs and blazing lights. The lights shine on JACOB's head. He effervesces and shimmers in their glow. One of the orbs sends a burst of light exploding over JACOB. So intense is the light that JACOB grabs his eyes. As he opens them again he sees that the GARDEN is fading back into pure light. MICHAEL, too, is fading. Another burst of light and the GARDEN is reabsorbed by the void. Only the brightness remains. It is many seconds before we realize that the HOTEL ROOM is coming together, reconstructed by the light. In moments it is fully formed. Sunlight is pouring through the window. MICHAEL is sleeping lightly in a chair. He hears JACOB stare and sits up. JACOB is sitting on the bed. He does not seem to know where he is. His eyes are filled with awe. They move slowly around the room, taking everything in. He doesn't speak. MICHAEL gets up and sits beside him. He respects his silence.
WOMAN: It's been four days. No word. It's not like him. He's never done any- thing like this before. It's like he just disappeared from the face of the The Bureau of Missing Persons is con- founded by the continuing surge of reports . JACOB snaps off the T.V.
REPORTER: The Bureau of Missing Persons is con- founded by the continuing surge of reports . JACOB snaps off the T.V.
JEZZIE: What'd you do that for? It's an in- teresting story. All these people are still disappearing. Right off the Hey, what's wrong? Are you all right?
JACOB: I'm okay. I just don't want to lis- You look upset.
JEZZIE: You look upset.
JACOB: ( angry ) I'm not upset.
JEZZIE: Jake, what is it?
JACOB: I'm tired.
JEZZIE: You look terrible. What happened? Jake . is it the antidote?
JACOB: Goddamn it. Why do you say that?
JEZZIE: Look at yourself. You look like you've seen a ghost.
JACOB: Shit! Can't I just have a bad day?
JEZZIE: You can have anything you want.
JACOB: Then don't bug me.
JEZZIE: I'm not bugging you. Come and lie down. I'll give you a massage. Where'd you go today?
JACOB: ( evasively ) Mid-town mostly.
JEZZIE: Oh yeah? What was happenin' there?
JACOB: ( looking away from her ) I picked up my ticket. ( he pauses ) I'm leaving in the morning, Jez.
JEZZIE: ( tensing ) ( acting innocent ) Where you going?
JACOB: ( nervously ) ( growing angry ) Where's West? New Jersey?
JEZZIE: ( growing angry ) Where's West? New Jersey?
JACOB: Don't be funny.
JEZZIE: I always liked the West, west of Il- linois anyway. But you gotta give me time to pack.
JACOB: Stop it, Jez. Don't do that.
JEZZIE: Do what? I haven't done a thing.
JACOB: Don't play games with me. There's nothing more to say. There is a quiet rage building in JEZZIE's eyes as she continues to stroke JACOB's chest. He tries to relax and give himself over to the movement of her hand. Silently she leans over and begins licking his stomach. JACOB's eyes close. His stomach hardens. He reaches back and adjusts the pillow beneath his head. Slowly, JEZZIE works her way back up to his chest. Her tongue darts in and out suggestively. He eyes are burning with anger. Her mouth poises itself over his nipple. She toys with it for a few seconds and then chomps down hard. The bite draws blood. JACOB screams. His eyes shoot open. For the flash of an instant he sees a DEMON hovering over him, a hideous horned creature licking his blood. JACOB flies off the bed as the creature hurls to the floor. JACOB is ready to pounce on it when he sees that it is JEZZIE lying at his feet. His head begins reeling. He backs away from the bed, not taking his eyes off JEZZIE for a second. He backs to the closet and grabs his coat.
JEZZIE: Jake. What are you doing? Look, I'm sorry, I didn't mean to bite. Let me get you a towel. JACOB grabs his wallet and his glasses. He backs toward the door.
JEZZIE: Jake, don't. You can't leave. You're not seeing things clearly. The drug's wearing off. She stands up and begins to approach him. JACOB lifts up a desk chair and holds it in front of him. Blood is running down his Jake, don't leave me! JACOB throws the chair at the floor, opens the door, and hurries into the HALLWAY. JEZZIE scurries around the chair and runs to the door. She yells after him, but he is already gone.
JEZZIE: Jake, don't leave me! JACOB throws the chair at the floor, opens the door, and hurries into the HALLWAY. JEZZIE scurries around the chair and runs to the door. She yells after him, but he is already gone.
JACOB: ( calling out ) Hello. It's me.
JACOB: Hello? Is anyone home? Jed? Elie? Dad- dy's here. There is still no answer. JACOB is surprised. He walks into the LIVING ROOM and then the KITCHEN. No one is around. He walks into his old BEDROOM and then the BOYS' ROOM. He is surprised to hear footsteps coming down the hall. He turns around and calls out.
JACOB: Sarah, is that you? I hope you don't mind. I needed to come home. JACOB is startled to see JEZZIE enter the room. She does not seem to be her usual self. She seems larger, more imposing.
JEZZIE: Hello, Jake. I knew you'd come here in the end. JACOB is nervous.
JACOB: Where's Sarah? Where are the boys?
JEZZIE: Sit down, Jake.
JACOB: Where are they?
JEZZIE: Sit down!
JACOB: No! What's going on? Where's my It's over, Jake. It's all over.
JEZZIE: It's over, Jake. It's all over.
JACOB: Where have they gone?
JEZZIE: Wake up! Stop playing with yourself. It's finished. JEZZIE stares at JACOB with a frightening, powerful glare. Her lips snarl. Her tongue begins darting in and out, only now it is not a nervous habit but a conscious act. JACOB's body feels the first waves of an inner tremor. His legs are shaking.
JACOB: What's going on? JEZZIE smiles at him. Her tongue wags and suddenly shoots from her mouth beyond human extension. JACOB recoils.
JACOB: ( whispering to himself ) This isn't happening.
JEZZIE: Your capacity for self-delusion is remarkable, Dr. Singer. JEZZIE's head begins to tighten and squeeze, as though she is suffering from cramps. JACOB watches in horror as her skull gives birth to pointed horns.
JACOB: Oh God!
JEZZIE: What's wrong, Jake? Forget to take your antidote?
JACOB: ( screaming ) Goddamn you!
JEZZIE: ( smiling and then laughing ) I loved your chemist, Jake. The height of fantasy. And your vision of ( she laughs with a hu- miliating tone ) A most romantic creation. You're quite a dreamer, Jake. Only it's time to wake up. JACOB's eyes are locked on JEZZIE. His mouth is wide open. His body is shaking badly. He tries to back away from her but his legs barely move.
JEZZIE: There is nowhere to run, Jacob. You're home. Suddenly the pictures on the wall crash to the floor. Plaster from the ceiling breaks off in huge chunks and slams to the carpet. Light bulbs and lamps explode. JACOB runs to the door. He pulls it open and screams. He is on the edge of a fiery abyss. JEZZIE laughs with a new intensity of demonic force. JACOB spins WHO ARE YOU? How many times have you asked me that? How many times?
JACOB: WHO ARE YOU? How many times have you asked me that? How many times?
JEZZIE: How many times have you asked me that? How many times?
JACOB: TELL ME, DAMN YOU! You know who I am. Suddenly JEZZIE reaches for her tongue and pulls at it with all her might. It is an act of total, unrelieved grotesqueness. With each yank the horror grows as JEZZIE literally pulls herself inside out before JACOB's eyes. The emerging creature is JEZZIE transfigured, a demonic presence beyond anything we have seen before. It is black and covered with a thick oozing slime. Its head, still recognizable as JEZZIE, is rodent-like, with piercing green eyes and terrible horns protruding from its brow. Its powerful arms have long spiked claws. Its feet are cloven hooves. Extending from its back is a long, thick, muscular tail that whips around the room with devastating force. It throws furniture crashing through the air. A sudden cracking sound emerges from the DEMON's back. Dark forms penetrate the air. JACOB is breathless as huge wings unfold and spread out to the living room walls. The sound of their flapping is deafening. The walls shatter from their blows. As they crumble darkness appears on the other side. There are no other rooms. The VOID envelops them. The INFERNO emerges in all directions. The DEMON roars.
JEZZIE: ( with consummate power ) You know who I am. Suddenly JEZZIE reaches for her tongue and pulls at it with all her might. It is an act of total, unrelieved grotesqueness. With each yank the horror grows as JEZZIE literally pulls herself inside out before JACOB's eyes. The emerging creature is JEZZIE transfigured, a demonic presence beyond anything we have seen before. It is black and covered with a thick oozing slime. Its head, still recognizable as JEZZIE, is rodent-like, with piercing green eyes and terrible horns protruding from its brow. Its powerful arms have long spiked claws. Its feet are cloven hooves. Extending from its back is a long, thick, muscular tail that whips around the room with devastating force. It throws furniture crashing through the air. A sudden cracking sound emerges from the DEMON's back. Dark forms penetrate the air. JACOB is breathless as huge wings unfold and spread out to the living room walls. The sound of their flapping is deafening. The walls shatter from their blows. As they crumble darkness appears on the other side. There are no other rooms. The VOID envelops them. The INFERNO emerges in all directions. The DEMON roars.
DEMON: ( with JEZZIE's voice ) Still love me, Jake? ( it laughs and reaches out to him )
COME!: CUT TO JACOB's face. He has gone beyond fear. An intensity of rage is building in him that we have not witnessed before. His whole image seems transformed by it. He glows like a volcano before it erupts. Suddenly he explodes. The full fury of the Ladder detonates inside him. He yells at the DEMON with all his might.
JACOB: With a power and energy of devastating force he attacks the DEMON. JACOB is battling for his very soul and tears at the DEMON with an animalistic fury that takes it by surprise. Its giant wings flap furiously, lifting them both up off the floor. JACOB keeps fighting. He claws, bites, and rips at the wings, decimating their delicate fabric. The DEMON, shocked, and trying to gain control, crashes up through the last fragments of the ceiling. JACOB does not let go. They burst into the fiery darkness. The room crumbles beneath them and disappears into the void. The abyss opens beneath them. JACOB continues his attack. His legs are locked around the DEMON's waist. His hands dig into her eyes. The DEMON shrieks and surges downward with awesome The DEMON charges into a rocky slope, smashing JACOB into its cliffs. JACOB claws at her wings, shredding as much of them as he can reach. The DEMON takes a huge chunk out of JACOB's arm. JACOB screams, grabs a rock, and shatters the DEMON's teeth. The DEMON falls to the ground. JACOB holds on. All of a sudden the DEMON begins to shrink. JACOB is shocked and struggles to contain it. As it dwindles in size it reorders its shape. Within seconds a powerful INSECT is cupped in his hands. JACOB tries to crush it but it stings with such force that JACOB's entire body recoils. The stinging persists. JACOB hurls himself to the ground on top of his arms to hold the CREATURE down. So massive is the INSECT's attack. however, that JACOB's whole body heaves off the ground with each sting. Then the attacks subside. JACOB waits for the next blow. Suddenly JACOB's body shoots straight up. His hands fly apart as a new life form erupts between them. He holds on tightly as flesh and blood mold and expand between his fingers. The new body takes rapid shape. It is a CHILD. JACOB grasps it with all his might as it completes its identity. He is horrified when he sees it. It is his son.
NO!!!!!: With a power and energy of devastating force he attacks the DEMON. JACOB is battling for his very soul and tears at the DEMON with an animalistic fury that takes it by surprise. Its giant wings flap furiously, lifting them both up off the floor. JACOB keeps fighting. He claws, bites, and rips at the wings, decimating their delicate fabric. The DEMON, shocked, and trying to gain control, crashes up through the last fragments of the ceiling. JACOB does not let go. They burst into the fiery darkness. The room crumbles beneath them and disappears into the void. The abyss opens beneath them. JACOB continues his attack. His legs are locked around the DEMON's waist. His hands dig into her eyes. The DEMON shrieks and surges downward with awesome The DEMON charges into a rocky slope, smashing JACOB into its cliffs. JACOB claws at her wings, shredding as much of them as he can reach. The DEMON takes a huge chunk out of JACOB's arm. JACOB screams, grabs a rock, and shatters the DEMON's teeth. The DEMON falls to the ground. JACOB holds on. All of a sudden the DEMON begins to shrink. JACOB is shocked and struggles to contain it. As it dwindles in size it reorders its shape. Within seconds a powerful INSECT is cupped in his hands. JACOB tries to crush it but it stings with such force that JACOB's entire body recoils. The stinging persists. JACOB hurls himself to the ground on top of his arms to hold the CREATURE down. So massive is the INSECT's attack. however, that JACOB's whole body heaves off the ground with each sting. Then the attacks subside. JACOB waits for the next blow. Suddenly JACOB's body shoots straight up. His hands fly apart as a new life form erupts between them. He holds on tightly as flesh and blood mold and expand between his fingers. The new body takes rapid shape. It is a CHILD. JACOB grasps it with all his might as it completes its identity. He is horrified when he sees it. It is his son.
ELI: Oh God!
JACOB: Oh God!
ELI: You're hurting me!
JACOB: ( yelling ) Daddy. Let go.
ELI: Daddy. Let go.
JACOB: What do you want from me?
ELI: LET GO! JACOB does not let up. In an instant his SON explodes into a gelatinous form, constantly undulating and changing shape. Within its translucent mass a new body is forming. JACOB stares at it with growing terror. It is himself. A terrible perplexity fills JACOB's eyes as he struggles to dig in and destroy his own image. He recoils as his own voice calls out to him.
LET GO!: JACOB does not let up. In an instant his SON explodes into a gelatinous form, constantly undulating and changing shape. Within its translucent mass a new body is forming. JACOB stares at it with growing terror. It is himself. A terrible perplexity fills JACOB's eyes as he struggles to dig in and destroy his own image. He recoils as his own voice calls out to him.
VOICE: Who the Hell do you think you're The words shock him and for the first time, he lets go. Instantly the image disappears and the jelly-like mass dissolves into an oily liquid rapidly encircling his feet. JACOB looks down at the shallow pool spreading out beneath him. Its surface reflects a smoky, unearthly light. JACOB gazes into the darkness. He is all alone. The quiet overwhelms him. The only sound is his own breath. He looks around, in all directions, but can see nothing. The CAMERA holds on him as he stands waiting for the next assault, but nothing comes. He is left only with his anticipation and with hinself. He stares at the terrible darkness. A subtle phospheresence begins to glow in the liquid beneath JACOB's feet. He steps away from it, but it follows his movement. Suddenly, as if by spontaneous combustion, it bursts into flames. JACOB screams and tries to run but the flames move with him, lapping at his legs. He cannot escape them. As far and as fast as he runs the fire is with him. He yells and cries and screams as the fire eats at his lower limbs. He falls and jumps back up again, his hands charred. His eyes grow wild.
JACOB: Oh God, help me. Instantly the flames roar and engulf him. It is total conflagration. JACOB's skin blisters and turns black. His flesh crackles. Writhing in pain he runs through the flames but can find no freedom from his suffering. All at once JACOB stops running. He throws his hands up into the burning air and stands motionless, in absolute agony. It is a gesture of total submission and surrender to forces beyond himself. His flesh bubbles and chars but something is suddenly quiet inside him. Through the flames JACOB's dark form can be seen as it slowly sits down, like a Buddhist monk, in the midst of the holocaust. He appears a figure of sudden nobility as the flames annihilate Gradually the fire dies. JACOB's body, his flesh like a charred and brittle shell, sits motionless, beyond pain. An orange glow from the embers of his body slowly fades, leaving him in the final darkness. The SCREEN stays dark for as long as possible. Then, slowly, an eerie light appears in an unfamiliar sky. It backlights JACOB, revealing his silhouette. The CAMERA dollies slowly toward him. It approaches the burned and unrecognizable remains of JACOB's face. It is the face of death. The CAMERA holds on the image. Suddenly, with shocking impact, JACOB's eyes move. Within the crumbling shell of a body something is still alive, still conscious. The eyes survey the darkness and the first stirrings of a new light. It is dawn. JACOB's dark remains are suffused by a preternatural glow. Slowly, huge orbs begin to appear on the horizon. JACOB's eyes open to the growing light as they seek out the familiar in the still dark lansdcape. Gradually the orbs begin their ascent like a thousand suns rising at the same time. JACOB's eyes widen as his new world stands revealed. He is sitting in a GARDEN OF LIGHT, the Rousseau paradise he has visited once before. A sudden burst of light fills the sky directly overhead. The vegetation around him is instantly illuminated with its soft glow. Like a gentle breeze MICHAEL descends from the light and stands radiant before JACOB. He smiles and the air itself seems to brighten. MICHAEL quietly approaches JACOB's body.
MICHAEL: I am with you, Jacob. JACOB stares at him through dark eyes with a mixture of awe and It's all right now. It's over. You've won. You're here. Trust me. Softly MICHAEL places his hands on top of JACOB's head and begins to peel at the charred flesh. Layer by layer he strips it away. Then, with an unexpected gesture, he rips away a whole section with one quick pull. A BLAZE OF LIGHT bursts through the gaping hole in JACOB's head and beams into the air around them. It is an astounding sight.
MICHAEL: ( speaking with a gentle compassion ) It's all right now. It's over. You've won. You're here. ( JACOB stares at him questioningly. MICHAEL reaches out his hands ) Trust me. Softly MICHAEL places his hands on top of JACOB's head and begins to peel at the charred flesh. Layer by layer he strips it away. Then, with an unexpected gesture, he rips away a whole section with one quick pull. A BLAZE OF LIGHT bursts through the gaping hole in JACOB's head and beams into the air around them. It is an astounding sight.
MICHAEL: Come on. Don't make me do it all. Stand up. You can do it. Slowly JACOB begins to stir. He moves feebly at first, like an old man. His black flesh creaks and cracks and through each sudden fissure another beam of light blasts out with laserlike Stop hobbling. Your flesh can't hold you anymore. JACOB nods in response and takes a huge, gigantic breath. His lungs expand and suddenly all the old flesh bursts from his body as a radiant being of light breaks through beneath it. JACOB stands transfigured, filled with his own luminosity. His face is like a child's as he stares in amazement at his own hands, glowing with light. MICHAEL directs JACOB's vision to the sunrise. It is majestic, almost Biblical in its grandeur. Great rays of light penetrate vast cloud formations and descend into the GARDEN. Slowly the clouds, as if orchestrated by some higher power, begin to part. A massive light complex emerges from behind them. JACOB watches, awestruck, as the CELESTIAL STAIRWAY stands revealed. It reaches down from unknown heights, radiating an infinite power and grace. It touches down far in the distance, hovering over many acres of teh GARDEN. JACOB's eyes are filled with its splendor. MICHAEL looks at him and nods.
MICHAEL: Stop hobbling. Your flesh can't hold you anymore. JACOB nods in response and takes a huge, gigantic breath. His lungs expand and suddenly all the old flesh bursts from his body as a radiant being of light breaks through beneath it. JACOB stands transfigured, filled with his own luminosity. His face is like a child's as he stares in amazement at his own hands, glowing with light. MICHAEL directs JACOB's vision to the sunrise. It is majestic, almost Biblical in its grandeur. Great rays of light penetrate vast cloud formations and descend into the GARDEN. Slowly the clouds, as if orchestrated by some higher power, begin to part. A massive light complex emerges from behind them. JACOB watches, awestruck, as the CELESTIAL STAIRWAY stands revealed. It reaches down from unknown heights, radiating an infinite power and grace. It touches down far in the distance, hovering over many acres of teh GARDEN. JACOB's eyes are filled with its splendor. MICHAEL looks at him and nods.
MICHAEL: Go on, Jacob. It has come for you. JACOB cannot speak. His eyes are fixed on the STAIRWAY dazzling him from afar. He can see ANGELIC FORMS moving up and down it. Suddenly, as if transported by light itself, he feels himself floating up into the air. He looks down upon EDEN sparkling below him. His mouth is wide open as he soars above it. The light pulsating from the STAIRWAY is brilliant and thrilling. JACOB's own inner light intensifies as he approaches it. The STAIRWAY grows increasingly wondrous as we draw nearer. It pulls JACOB toward it. STREAMS OF ANGELS enter the STAIRWAY like a fast flowing river. It carries them instantly within its current up beyond the visible reaches of the glittering sky. Billowing clouds glow in a parade of colors and the starry heavens seem to part as the STAIRWAY reaches beyond all known dimensions. JACOB stares at the light that is about to absorb him. It is a moment of total euphoria. He surges into the stream as the brilliant light of the STAIRWAY overwhelms the screen. Slowly the brightness of the screen condenses into a smaller light source. An overhead surgical lamp remains stubbornly in INT. VIETNAM FIELD HOSPITAL - DAY A DOCTOR leans his head in front of the lamp and removes his mask. His expression is somber. He shakes his head. His words are simple and final.
DOCTOR: He's gone. CUT TO JACOB SINGER lying on an operating table in a large ARMY FIELD TENT in VIET NAM. The DOCTOR steps away. A NURSE rudely pulls a green sheet up over his head. The DOCTOR turns to one of the aides and throws up his hands in defeat. TWO ORDERLIES wheel JACOB's body past rows of other DOCTORS and NURSES fighting to save lives. A YOUNG VIETNAMESE BOY pulls back a screen door to let them out of the tent. It is a bright, fresh morning. The sun is rising.
THE END: Writers : Bruce Joel Rubin
