JANE EYRE: Written by Moira Buffini Adapted from the novel by Charlotte Bronte
CUT TO:: Jane sinks into a dark corner. Her fellow passengers look shocked by her dishevelled appearance at such an early hour. She undertakes a tremendous effort not to betray her emotional state. She doesn't sob, she doesn't howl - although her breathing threatens to. Slowly, unable to bear the day, she closes her eyes.
CUT TO:: Jane leaning into the pigpen. She picks a stiffened mould of porridge out of the mud. She lets the rain wash it. She eats it ravenously.
CUT TO:: Jane is crawling through the narrow garden. On her knees, she peers through a window. On either side of a bright little fire sit two young women. They look exactly like Jane; slight, neat, dressed in black. One, Diana, has her hair slightly curled and hides her gentle eyes behind spectacles. The other, Mary, is very young; no more than seventeen. Each has a book on her knee. They are talking intimately. They look so close, so loving and the room looks so cosy that it pains Jane considerably.
CUT TO:: Jane knocking at the door. Hannah, an old servant answers. She is suspicious; Jane looks like a wretch.
HANNAH: What do you want? Jane manages to find her voice.
JANE: Shelter. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 4.
HANNAH: I can't take in vagrants. Here's a penny. Now take it and go.
JANE: I have no strength to go.
HANNAH: You can move off. And if there are others with you tell them we are not alone. We have a gentleman here, and dogs.
JANE: But I must die if I am turned away. The door slams shut. Jane lets out a hopeless wail.
JANE (CONT'D): God help me. I will die. She turns away, her hope gone. As she collapses, she finds herself supported by a strong pair of black-clad arms.
ST JOHN: All of God's creatures must die. But not prematurely - and not on my doorstep I hope. Jane is lifted up. She finds herself looking into the face of the handsomest man she has ever seen; St John Rivers. He lifts her over the threshold into the warmth of Moor House.
HANNAH: We've had a beggar woman come, Mr Rivers. I sent her - For shame! Hannah falls silent as she sees Jane.
ST JOHN: You did your duty in excluding her. Let me do mine in admitting her. He sets Jane down before the hearth. She can barely stand. She is soaked to the bone, filthy with mud. Her skin has a ghastly pallor. Diana and Mary enter.
DIANA: St John, who is it? Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 5.
ST JOHN: I don't know; I found her at the door.
HANNAH: I thought her one of the gypsies from the cross.
MARY: She's as white as death. Jane can hold herself up no longer. Diana moves forward. She and St John catch Jane and help her into a chair. The rain hammers on the windows.
DIANA: Hannah, some water.
MARY: She's worn to nothing. She looks like a spectre. St John, if you hadn't taken her in, we would have fallen upon her dead body in the morning.
DIANA: Mary.
ST JOHN: She's no vagrant; I'm sure of it.
HANNAH: There's milk and bread for you. Jane tries to mouth her thanks. She sips the milk. Eats a mouthful of bread. Diana kneels at her side.
ST JOHN: Ask her her name.
JANE: I - I am J - Jane cannot speak. She's incapable of uttering her own name. She hears John Reed's voice calling from far away.
JOHN REED: Jane Eyre!
DIANA: Please, tell us how we may help you.
ST JOHN: Can we send for anyone? Who are your people? Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 6. The questions are deeply troubling to Jane. She is losing consciousness. She sees an image of a small girl of ten, running away through a great darkening room. Jane tries to follow her. The action draws her up out of the kitchen chair. She hears John Reed's voice again.
JOHN REED: Come out, rat. I know you are in here. Come out now and I won't punish you. Jane watches him pass by her. He practises a perfect lunge.
CUT TO:: Jane is sitting cross-legged, completely absorbed in her book - a beautifully drawn picture of a cormorant. She runs her finger over it. We hear the sound of great waves plunging on to a shore.
JOHN REED: I have been looking for you these last ten minutes.
JANE: What do you want?
JOHN REED: Say forgive me, Master Reed.
JANE: I have done nothing wrong. Master Reed. John grabs the book.
JOHN REED: Who gave you permission to read my book?
JANE: I wasn't aware it was yours.
JOHN REED: Everything in this house is mine. You're lucky to live here with gentleman's children like us. Your father had nothing. You should go and beg. Jane stares him out. John can sense her contempt. He belts her with the book. Jane hits her head on the window clasp, drawing blood. She is shocked.
JANE: Wicked and cruel - you are a slaver - a murderer -
JOHN: I shall tell mother -
JANE: I hate you John Reed. I hate you - Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 8. John is flabbergasted. Like all bullies, he is terrified.
JOHN: Mamma! Mamma! There's a rat! Rat! Jane bites him. Hard. At that moment, Mrs Reed appears on the scene. John screams. We see Mrs Reed's shocked face. She is an overweight woman pushing forty in a bright, elaborate dress.
BESSIE: For shame, hitting your master.
MISS ABBOT: If you don't sit still you must be tied down! The fight goes out of Jane. She sits, defeated. Bessie, young and plump, quickly wipes her bleeding forehead. She has some compassion. Miss Abbot has none.
BESSIE: What we do is for your own good. If you are passionate and rude like this, your Aunt Reed will send you away.
MISS ABBOT: You're worse than us servants. We work for our keep; you do nothing. Pray for forgiveness Miss Eyre or something bad will come down that chimney and fetch you away. The door slams. They are gone. Jane slowly grips the edge of the stool. The room is chill, silent. Red walls and curtains, murky in the fading light. In front of Jane, a stone fireplace gapes like a mouth. Beside it, a full length looking-glass in which her pale reflection stares out. Behind her, a bed supported on pillars of mahogany, hung with red. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 9. The piled up pillows and mattresses glare in cold white. Jane's breathing is the only sound in the room. A sudden gust sends rain pelting against the windows like fingernails. A distant moan of wind seems to breathe out of the black hearth. Jane reverts her nervous gaze to the pitted mirror. Her eyes lock on the small figure trapped in the mirror's visionary hollow; her white, bleeding face, her eyes glittering with fear. It is a phantom. The eyes are black, the skin a deathly grey. Blood. Jane's breathing becomes choked with terror. She can't get her breath. We hear blood rushing through her ears. It sounds like the beating of great wings. Slowly, a light appears over her. It may be something shining in from outside. But to Jane it seems as if it is surrounding her, enveloping her. The figure in the looking glass opens its mouth. The scream, held in so long, finally rips from Jane's throat.
BESSIE: Miss Eyre what is it?
JANE: Bessie!
BESSIE: Have you seen something?
JANE: There was a light. We see Bessie's own fear as she glances into the dark room. Mrs Reed is storming towards them, furious.
MRS REED: Bessie, I gave orders that she was to be left in the red room until I came. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 10.
BESSIE: But she screamed so loud ma'am.
MRS REED: It is play-acting. Let her go. I know your tricks Jane Eyre and I abhor such artifice. Loose Bessie's hands, child. Mrs Reed prises Jane away from Bessie as she speaks.
JANE: No - Aunt, have pity -
MRS REED: And only when you are perfectly submissive will I let you out.
JANE: Please - I cannot bear it -
MRS REED: Silence. This violence is repulsive.
JANE: I shall be killed -
MRS REED: Get back!
JANE: Have mercy, have mercy I beg you - Mrs Reed throws her back into the room, slams the door and turns the key. We hear Jane's unspeakable howls of terror, her anguished bangs upon the door. Bessie is looking at Mrs Reed aghast. Mrs Reed withers her with a frozen glare.
MARY: She's awake. St John approaches in his parson's collar, blocking out the light as he looks down. Jane gazes at him remotely.
ST JOHN: I'm sure we'll find she's simply had a misunderstanding with her people. I hope she's not done anything deplorable; there's nothing so sad as a fallen young woman.
MARY: Look at the suffering in her eyes. They're like dark pools - Diana smiles at Mary's tendency to over-dramatise.
DIANA: She has a peculiar face; I rather like it.
ST JOHN: She's not at all handsome.
DIANA: She's so ill, St John.
ST JOHN: Ill or well, she'll always be plain. Jane's eyes slide away from him and close.
BROCKLEHURST: There is no sight so sad and so deplorable as that of a wicked little girl. Do you know, Jane Eyre, where the wicked go after death?
JANE: They go to hell.
BROCKLEHURST: And what is hell, can you tell me that? Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 12.
JANE: A pit full of fire.
BROCKLEHURST: And should you like to fall into that pit and be burning there forever?
JANE: No sir.
BROCKLEHURST: What must you do to avoid it?
JANE: I must keep in good health and not die. Mrs Reed is by the fireside in an ultra-feminine dress. She puts down her tea cup in irritation.
MRS REED: I've been her sole benefactress and her kindest friend. But she shows no gratitude and brings nothing but discord into my house.
BROCKLEHURST: What is her parentage?
MRS REED: She's an orphan. Her mother was my late husband's sister. On his deathbed he exhorted me to care for her. I have always treated her as one of my own. Jane silently revolts against this lie.
BROCKLEHURST: All liars will have their portion in the lake burning with fire and brimstone. She shall be watched, Mrs Reed.
MRS REED: I wish her to be made useful, to be kept humble. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 13.
BROCKLEHURST: You can rest assured dear lady that we mortify our girls in the sentiments of vanity and pride. They are taught to be quiet, plain and modest. A passion of resentment is forming in Jane.
BROCKLEHURST (CONT'D): We shall root out the wickedness in this small, ungrateful plant. Mrs Reed smiles sweetly.
MRS REED: And as for its vacations, it must spend them all at Lowood.
JOHN: So, Rat, you're being sent away. It's as I thought; you're not fit to associate with me. Jane snaps. She cries out:
JANE: You are not fit to associate with me!
JANE: You said I was a liar. Well I am not. If I was, I should say that I loved you and I don't. I dislike you the worst of anybody in the world except John Reed. He is a liar, not I.
MRS REED: How dare you speak in this manner.
JANE: I'll never call you Aunt again as long as I live and if anyone asks how I liked you I'll say that the very thought of you makes me sick. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 14.
MRS REED: You wouldn't dare.
JANE: I'll remember how you thrust me back into the Red Room and locked me there to my dying day. Even when you knew it was haunted and I begged to be let out. People think you are good but you are bad and hard-hearted and I'll let everyone at Lowood know what you have done!
MRS REED: Children must be corrected for their faults.
JANE: Deceit is not my fault!
MRS REED: But you are passionate.
JANE: My Uncle Reed is in heaven and can see all that you do and think; so can my mother and father. They know how you hate me and wish me dead. They can see. They see everything you do and they will judge you, Mrs Reed. Mrs Reed has turned quite pale. Jane blazes with victory.
BESSIE: You're such a queer, solitary little thing. If only you could make yourself more appealing. Perhaps if you tried smiling from time to time, people would find you more pleasant -
JANE: Don't scold me Bessie. I know you dislike me -
BESSIE: I don't dislike you Miss; I'm fonder of you than of anyone.
JANE: You don't show it. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 15.
BESSIE: Miss Jane - Jane throws her arms around Bessie and embraces her with great force. Bessie returns the embrace, surprised, moved. Jane gets into the coach. Bessie looks up at the driver.
BESSIE (CONT'D): You take good care of her. Jane's small, pale face peers out of the coach window, watching Gateshead recede. She doesn't cry. But Bessie can't stave off her tears.
MISS TEMPLE: What's your name, child?
JANE: Jane Eyre.
MISS TEMPLE: You are very young to be sent alone, Jane Eyre. She gently touches Jane's cheek with her finger. Jane manages the ghost of a smile.
JANE: My name is Jane Elliott...
MARY: Jane Elliot.
DIANA: Where do you come from, Miss Elliott? Jane gives no answer.
ST JOHN: Who can we send for to help you? Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 16.
JANE: No one. There is an intake of breath from Mary.
ST JOHN: Do you mean to say that you are absolutely without home and without friends?
JANE: Yes sir.
ST JOHN: How did you come to be roaming the moors, Miss Elliott?
DIANA: Don't upset her, St John. She must not be interrogated so.
JANE: Mr Rivers, you and you sisters have done me a great service, the greatest man can do - you have rescued me from death.
ST JOHN: How are we to help you if we know nothing about you?
JANE: I'll tell you as much as I can. I am an orphan; brought up a dependent; educated in a charity school where I passed six years as a pupil and two as a teacher. I left a year since to become a private governess -
JANE: A good situation, where I remained until...
MARY: Diana, didn't I say so? Didn't I say she was a governess?
DIANA: We did wonder. We mean no offence but you have a certain look. Mary and I work as governesses too. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 17.
JANE: (with great interest) Do you?
MARY: We are currently trying to teach ourselves German, so we may find better positions.
JANE: You're not working at present?
DIANA: We came home only for our father's funeral.
MARY: He died three weeks ago.
JANE: I am very sorry to hear it. St John has no patience with the change of subject.
ST JOHN: Why did you leave your place of employment? Jane sinks back in the pillows.
JANE: I... It was a catastrophe.
ST JOHN: What did you do?
JANE: I am free from any blame, sir. I was happy. Jane is deeply distressed.
DIANA: That's enough for now, St John.
MARY: You must rest, Miss Elliott. The name sounds strange to Jane.
ST JOHN: Why did you start?
JANE: Because that is not my name. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 18.
DIANA: You haven't given us your real name? Jane shakes her head.
ST JOHN: Why not?
JANE: Because I must not ever be found. Diana and Mary glance at each other, fascinated.
ST JOHN: Join me to thyself with an inseparable band of love... For thou, even thou alone, dost satisfy him that loveth thee... Jane finds herself staring at St John, who prays ardently.
DIANA: Welcome to our table, Miss Elliott.
JANE: I'd appreciate it if you called me Jane. It is my own name.
MARY: It's wonderful to see you on your feet, Miss Jane. Jane turns her attention to St John.
JANE: I trust I will not be eating long at your expense, Mr Rivers.
ST JOHN: You wish to be independent of my charity?
JANE: I wish to work, sir. Show me how to work or how to seek work; that's all I ask.
DIANA: You're not fit enough to work.
ST JOHN: My sisters have always taken pleasure in keeping injured birds but I'm more inclined to put you in a way of keeping yourself - and shall endeavour to do so, if that's what you wish.
JANE: With all my heart, sir.
DIANA: It's a shame she has no choice of helpers, St John, and must put up with such crusty people as you.
ST JOHN: This school you were at, Miss Elliot, this charitable institution; what did it prepare you for?
CUT TO:: We see a bundle of sharp twigs come down on a girl's bare neck, like a whip.
CUT TO:: Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 20. Jane flinches at the memory.
JANE: Most thorough.
MISS SCATCHERD: Burns, Helen Burns! Jane, aged ten, looks up. She is wearing a brown stuff frock with a puritanical cap like all the other girls. Silence reigns in the school hall. A red haired girl of about thirteen stands up; Helen Burns. Miss Scatcherd holds up an apron in which a hole has been mistakenly cut.
BROCKLEHURST: I might have known. The new girl. Step forward, Jane Eyre. Filled with dread, Jane steps forward.
BROCKLEHURST (CONT'D): It is my duty dear children, to warn you that this girl is not one of God's own lambs. We see the look of frustration on Miss Temple's face. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 21.
BROCKLEHURST (CONT'D): She is a castaway and an alien in his flock and you must be on your guard against her. For this child... is a liar! He points to a tall stool. Jane stands on it.
BROCKLEHURST (CONT'D): This is the pedestal of infamy - and you'll remain upon it all day. You'll receive no sustenance and no comfort, for you must learn how barren is the life of the sinner. Children, I exhort you to shun her, exclude her, shut her out from this day forth. Withhold the hand of friendship and deny your love to Jane Eyre, the liar.
HELEN: Come now, don't cry.
JANE: You're not allowed to speak to me. I must be shunned.
HELEN: Mr Brocklehurst is not a God. He's not liked or admired here -
JANE: He said I was a liar.
JANE: I am not a liar!
HELEN: If your own conscience approves you, then so will I. Jane is deeply gratified.
JANE: How do you bear it? Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 22.
HELEN: Bear what?
JANE: Being struck.
HELEN: I'm a trial to Miss Scatcherd. She hits me to improve me.
JANE: If she hit me I would get that birch from her hand and break it under her nose.
HELEN: You'd just be punished even more. It's part of life here.
JANE: I have always been excluded and alone and hated. Miss Abbott used to call me an ugly little toad. Helen approaches Jane.
HELEN: You're not ugly. Do you know what is inside you?
JANE: What?
HELEN: The spark of your spirit, the principle of light and thought, pure and bright, as perfect as anything created.
JANE: What do you mean?
HELEN: Your soul. Your soul is beautiful, your soul has value - more value than anything on earth.
JANE: Is that true?
HELEN: Yes. God sees your beauty. Even as you stand on that stool, there is an invisible world around you, a kingdom of spirits. It is everywhere. Angels see your pain. Angels know your innocence. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 23.
JANE: Angels? Helen smiles a wide smile.
HELEN: Do you not believe in angels? They hear the door. Helen runs back to her place; cowers. Miss Temple appears in a shaft of light at the door.
MISS TEMPLE: Come here, Girls. The girls approach, dreading more punishment.
MARY: We've lived here all our lives but the house must be shut up now.
JANE: Why?
MARY: We can't afford to keep it on. Diana and I will return to our charges in a few days and St John will go to his parsonage. Down below them, St John leaves Moor House and walks towards the village. Jane watches him. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 24.
DIANA: It'll be a hard parting for us. We may not see him again for years.
JANE: Why ever not?
MARY: He means to be a missionary. He's going to India to do Gods's work.
JANE: Can he not do God's work here?
MARY: This quiet parish will never do for him; he almost raves in his restlessness. It breaks our hearts.
DIANA: St John burns with talents and ambition. But he lacks the means for advancement here. Our poverty thwarts him at every turn and so he has chosen to lay all his gifts on God's altar.
MARY: We've tried to persuade him to stay but in some things our brother is - he is -
DIANA: Inexorable as death.
MARY: We are now without father. We'll soon be without home and brother. Jane feels a powerful compassion for them.
JANE: In one thing you are fortunate. She looks over at the horizon.
JANE (CONT'D): You have each other.
MISS TEMPLE: This is the result of semi- starvation and neglected colds; Brockelhurst's idea of mortifying their bodies to save their souls.
TYPHUS -: Miss Temple can't say more.
MADAME PIERROT: Write to the governors. You must. Jane creeps on.
JANE: Helen.
HELEN: Is it you, Jane? Have you come to say goodbye?
JANE: You're cold.
HELEN: I'm very happy. I am going home.
JANE: Back to your father?
HELEN: My father has a new wife. He'll not miss me much.
JANE: Then where?
HELEN: To my future home, where all is light. I am going to God. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 26.
JANE: No... Jane is devastated. She climbs into bed next to Helen. For a moment, they hold each other. Jane's tears silently fall.
HELEN: Don't be sad. I will escape great suffering by dying young.
JANE: No...
HELEN: I don't have any talent to make my way in life. I should be always at fault. But God is my friend. He loves me.
JANE: Then he must save you.
HELEN: He is saving me. Jane cannot articulate her distress at Helen's words.
HELEN (CONT'D): I feel like I could sleep now. I like to have you near -
JANE: I won't leave you.
HELEN: You're so warm and alive. Jane, you have a passion for living.
MISS TEMPLE: Jane... Jane realises what has happened. We hear the sound of her distress begin. She is inconsolable.
JANE: No, no, no -
JANE: Have you something for me to do?
MARY: You are doing something already. May I see? Jane hands her a book. She has drawn a bride.
JANE: That's Miss Temple on her wedding day. She was my teacher; a great influence on me. Under her guidance I became a teacher too. Mary turns the page. It shows a sketch of St John Rivers. Mary gasps in delight. She takes the book straight to St John, who is diligently working at his desk.
MARY: St John -
JANE: No, Mary, please -
MARY: See how skilled Jane is. St John looks at the sketch of himself. He is quite taken aback. He looks over at Jane, who is quite embarrassed.
MARY (CONT'D): She is better than any drawing master we have ever had. For a moment, St John seems to be weighing up whether to be insulted or not.
ST JOHN: How fierce I am, Miss Elliott.
JANE: Mr Rivers, I wondered if you had yet heard of any work that I could do.
ST JOHN: I found you a situation some days ago but I've delayed telling you because the work is lowly and I fear you'll scorn it. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 28.
JANE: I shan't mind what I do.
ST JOHN: As I am poor and obscure, the help I can offer is of the meanest sort.
DIANA: St John, what are you going to offer her? Not washerwoman, I hope?
ST JOHN: When I took over the parish two years ago it had no school. I opened one for boys; I now intend to open one for girls. The school mistress will have a two-roomed cottage paid for by local benefactors and she will receive fifteen pounds a year. You can see how humble, how ignoble it is. On the contrary, Jane is deeply gratified.
JANE: Mr Rivers, I thank you heartily and I accept with all my heart.
ST JOHN: But you comprehend me? It's a village school - cottagers daughters. What will you do with all your fine accomplishments?
JANE: I will save them until they are wanted. They will keep. Jane smiles at him. St John is impressed.
BROCKLEHURST: I hear you are to leave us, Miss Eyre. She spins around as if he is there.
JANE: Yes. Excuse me. She walks into the graveyard. There are over forty small graves marked with wooden crosses, each bearing a child's name. One of them says Helen Burns. Jane lays down her flowers. She looks up at Brocklehurst. He cannot meet her eye. We hear the voice of Mrs Fairfax.
MRS FAIRFAX: How do you do, my dear? What a long and tedious journey you must have had of it. John is quite the slowest driver in the county. You must be cold to the bone.
JANE: Are you Mrs Fairfax?
MRS FAIRFAX: Indeed I am; come and warm yourself in here. Mrs Fairfax leads Jane up the dark corridor and into a cosy parlour. Leah, a young maidservant, follows.
MRS FAIRFAX: Draw nearer the fire. John is taking your trunk up to your room. Knitting apparatus lies abandoned on a fireside chair. Mrs Fairfax moves it and gestures for Jane to sit. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 31.
JANE: Am I to have the pleasure of meeting Miss Fairfax tonight?
MRS FAIRFAX: Who?
JANE: Miss Fairfax - my pupil?
MRS FAIRFAX: Oh you mean Miss Varens; Mr Rochester's ward. She is to be your pupil.
JANE: Who is Mr Rochester?
MRS FAIRFAX: Why, the owner of Thornfield.
JANE: I thought Thornfield Hall belonged to you.
MRS FAIRFAX: (bursting into laughter) Oh bless you child, what an idea. To me? I am only the housekeeper.
JANE: Forgive me - Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 32.
MRS FAIRFAX: There is a distant connection between Mr Rochester and I - his mother was a Fairfax - but I'd never presume on it. Heavens, me, owner of Thornfield? She continues to laugh. A bashful smile is playing on Jane's lips. Mrs Fairfax is beginning to thaw her.
MRS FAIRFAX: We shall have a cheerful house this winter... As Jane follows Mrs Fairfax up the stairs, light is thrown on portraits of dour, craggy, long dead ancestors.
MRS FAIRFAX: I'm sure that last winter - and what a severe one - if it didn't rain it snowed and if it didn't snow it blew a gale - last winter I declare that not a soul came to the house from November to February. Mrs Fairfax leads Jane through the wood-panelled darkness.
JANE: She is utterly speechless. Her eight years of physical discomfort and hardship are over.
MRS FAIRFAX: Good night, my dear. I hope you'll be comfy.
JANE: Thank you. Mrs Fairfax can see how affected she is - and how hard she is trying to button it down.
JANE: What a beautiful house.
MRS FAIRFAX: Mr Rochester's visits here are always unexpected. He doesn't like to arrive and find everything all swathed up, so I keep it in constant readiness. Now, come and meet Miss Varens. Did I mention she was French?
ADELE: Sophie has been crying because no one understands. Nobody can speak to us except for Mr Rochester and he has gone away. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 34.
MRS FAIRFAX: Would you ask her about her parents? Mr Rochester's neglected to tell me anything about her.
JANE: Where did you live Adele, before you came to Thornfield?
ADELE: With Maman - but she is gone to the Holy Virgin now.
JANE: Her mother has passed away.
ADELE: Maman used to teach me to dance and say verses. When gentlemen came to see her I used to dance for them or sit on their knees and sing. May I sing for you now?
JANE: Well - that would be lovely. (To Mrs Fairfax) Adele is going to show us her accomplishments. Adele adopts a lovelorn pose. She sings an operetta song; a forsaken lady plotting vengeance on her lover. Her high voice warbles with pretended emotion. The effect is rather weird. Jane and Mrs Fairfax watch, open-mouthed.
MRS FAIRFAX: How very French...
ADELE: Me! It is me! Mrs Fairfax shakes out the finished shawl and puts it round Jane's shoulders, departing before Jane can protest.
MRS FAIRFAX: Here. For you. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 35. Jane is delighted at the kindness of the gift.
JANE: Who's there? Her own huge shadow is the only thing that moves. She hears the laugh again. She follows it through the darkness, alert with fear. A door clicks shut at the end of the corridor. To her relief Jane sees Mrs Fairfax approach with a lamp.
JANE (CONT'D): Who sleeps up here?
MRS FAIRFAX: No one. This part of the house is quite empty, except for you and me.
JANE: I heard someone.
MRS FAIRFAX: You can't have done.
JANE: A laugh. Someone laughed. Mrs Fairfax flounders for a second.
MRS FAIRFAX: Oh - that must be Grace Poole. She likes to sit up here with her sewing. Rather an eccentric soul. (She shouts sharply) Grace? Grace! A door opens. Jane sees a broad-faced woman with slow, intelligent eyes. She looks as if she has just woken up.
MRS FAIRFAX: I thought I might find you up here. I've been waiting to pour our tea.
JANE: I'm not in need of tea, thank you. Mrs Fairfax approaches, concerned.
MRS FAIRFAX: What is it, child? You've been here three months now and I'm worried that the position is not enough / to occupy your -
JANE: Oh, Mrs Fairfax, no. I'm so thankful to be at Thornfield. Please don't think I'm so ungrateful as to be discontented.
MRS FAIRFAX: But it's a quiet life, isn't it? This isolated house; a still doom for a young woman... Jane looks out at the view once more.
JANE: I wish a woman could have action in her life, like a man. It agitates me to pain that the sky- line over there is ever our limit. I long sometimes for a power of vision that would overpass it. If I could behold all I imagine... I've never seen a city, never spoken with men. I've never even seen a town of any size. And I fear my whole life will pass, without ever having... Mrs Fairfax's troubled look makes Jane fall silent. Mrs Fairfax looks as if she is about to say something - then puts on her practical face, the moment of intimacy gone.
MRS FAIRFAX: Well now - exercise is a great cure for anything, they say.
(MORE): Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 37.
ROCHESTER: What the deuce - The rider gets the horse under control and continues, only to have his horse slip on the ice. Both man and horse fall with a crash. The dog begins to bark, until the hills echo with the sound. The horse is on one side; the man is lying, trapped beneath it on the ice; Edward Fairfax Rochester.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): Hellfire. Jane is confounded.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): Pilot, get down! GET DOWN I SAY!
JANE: Can I do anything, sir? Rochester stares at her; a tiny black figure, surrounded by darkening frost, the low moon behind her. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 38.
ROCHESTER: Get back. Jane doesn't move. Rochester turns to his horse.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): Mesrour. Mesrour. With much stamping and clattering, the horse clambers to its feet. Rochester seems relieved. He tries to stand himself. His ankle will bear no weight. He lets out an involuntary cry. It echoes:
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): Damnation.
JANE: Are you injured, sir? Rochester looks at her once more. He manages to get himself off the ice. He sits on a nearby stile. Jane approaches him. She now has the moon on her face. She begins to look less like a phantom and more like a girl.
JANE (CONT'D): If you are hurt and want help I can fetch someone from the village. I'm on my way there to post a letter. Rochester looks as if he doesn't believe her.
ROCHESTER: Where do you come from?
JANE: Thornfield Hall.
ROCHESTER: Whose house is that?
JANE: Mr Rochester's.
ROCHESTER: Do you know Mr Rochester?
JANE: No, I've never seen him. Rochester is trying to place her. She is a puzzle to him.
ROCHESTER: You're not a servant there...
JANE: I am the governess, sir. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 39.
ROCHESTER: The governess. (A slow smile) Deuce take me, I had forgotten. Examining Jane once more, he laughs a low laugh.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): The governess. Jane does not like to be laughed at.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): Have you got an umbrella I can use as a stick?
JANE: No.
ROCHESTER: Then try to get hold of his bridle and lead him to me. Jane doesn't like his imperious tone. She looks at the horse; huge, trampling, nervous. Rochester is amused.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): If you would be so kind... Jane obeys. She endeavours to catch the bridle but the horse rears away. Jane falls on the ice. Rochester bursts out laughing. Jane picks herself up.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): Perhaps it would be easier to bring me to the horse. Come here. Jane resists.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): Forgive me. I must beg of you to come here. Jane approaches. Rochester instantly leans all his weight on her. She almost crumples under it; the first time she has ever touched and been touched by a man. She holds him up. And walks him closer to his horse.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): Mesrour. The horse approaches him. Rochester calms it. He springs into the saddle, grimacing as he wrenches his sprain.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): Thank you. (He bows.) Now, make haste with your letter. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 40. Rochester's spurred heel makes the horse start and rear. Jane steps back. The horse bounds away, the dog rushing in its traces. All three disappear. Jane doesn't move until the sound of hooves has faded away. Her face is flushed, her eyes glitter in the dark.
MRS FAIRFAX: Mr Rochester is here.
JANE: Oh?
MRS FAIRFAX: Go and change your frock; he wishes to meet you.
JANE: I have to change?
MRS FAIRFAX: Oh yes - I always dress for the evening when Mr Rochester is here.
JANE: But all my dresses are the same.
MRS FAIRFAX: You must have one that is better? He's in a terrible humour; the doctor has been. His horse fell in Hay lane and his ankle is sprained. Mrs Fairfax anxiously hurries back into the library. A large dog wanders out. Jane finds herself looking at Pilot. She smiles.
MRS FAIRFAX: Here is Miss Eyre, Sir.
ROCHESTER: (Without looking up) Let her sit. Jane sits. Rochester continues to study her work.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): I have examined Adele and I find you've taken great pains with her. She's not bright, she has no talents - yet in a short time she's made much improvement. Adele is gazing at him uncomprehending, her face radiant.
JANE: Thank you.
ROCHESTER: You've been resident here three months?
JANE: Yes, sir.
ROCHESTER: And from whence do you hail; what's your tale of woe?
JANE: Pardon?
ROCHESTER: All governesses have a tale of woe; what's yours?
JANE: I was brought up by my Aunt, Mrs Reed of Gateshead, in a house far finer than this. At ten years old I went to Lowood school where I received as good an education as I could hope for. I have no tale of woe, sir.
ROCHESTER: Where are your parents?
JANE: Dead.
ROCHESTER: Do you remember them? Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 42.
JANE: No.
ROCHESTER: And why are you not with Mrs Reed of Gateshead now?
JANE: She cast me off, sir.
ROCHESTER: Why?
JANE: Because I was burdensome and she disliked me.
ROCHESTER: Lowood; that's a charity school, isn't it?
JANE: Yes.
ROCHESTER: How long did you survive there?
JANE: Eight years.
ROCHESTER: No tale of woe...
MRS FAIRFAX: I daily thank providence for sending us Miss Eyre. She's a kind and patient teacher and an invaluable / companion -
ROCHESTER: Don't trouble yourself to give her a character. I'll judge for myself. She began by felling my horse.
MRS FAIRFAX: Sir?
ROCHESTER: I have her to thank for this sprain. Mrs Fairfax looks at Jane, bewildered. Rochester lifts one of her watercolours.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): Adele has brought me these; are they yours? Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 43.
JANE: Yes sir. A swollen sea. A cormorant, a golden bracelet held in its beak. A girl's arm coming out of the water, white and deathly, her drowned figure underneath.
ROCHESTER: Where did you get your copies?
JANE: Out of my head.
ROCHESTER: That head I now see on your shoulders?
JANE: Yes sir. He turns the next. The top of a hill. An expanse of twilight sky. Rising up, a girl's shape, her forehead crowned with a star, red hair flowing; Helen Burns.
ROCHESTER: Who's this?
JANE: The evening star. Rochester gives her a direct gaze.
ROCHESTER: Why did you bewitch my horse? Jane cannot reply.
ADELE: Tonight I will have my cadeaux. He always bring me a cadeaux. Mrs Fairfax breathlessly enters.
MRS FAIRFAX: Sorry to disturb. He's asked for your art. Jane looks at her in disbelief.
JANE: What for? Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 44.
MRS FAIRFAX: He wishes to have it.
JANE: Why?
MRS FAIRFAX: To show to his company, I should think. Is this it here? Thank you. Jane watches helplessly as Mrs Fairfax takes her portfolio.
ADELE: Monsieur! All eyes turn upon the landing. Jane tries to find a shadow to back into but there are none. Adele curtsies.
ROCHESTER: Ah, there she is... It is unclear whether he is referring to Adele or Jane. He makes a bow. The men are staring at Jane with great curiosity. It makes her uncomfortable. She tugs Adele away.
ADELE: Ma boite, ma boite! Rochester is leaning against the mantelpiece, drinking.
ROCHESTER: Take it away you genuine daughter of Paris and amuse yourself with disembowelling it.
MRS FAIRFAX: We'll open it together, shall we? Mrs Fairfax kindly leads Adele away. Jane is about to cross the room with them.
ROCHESTER: Miss Eyre. Sit there. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 45. He gestures to a chair by the fire. Jane obeys. She studies Rochester. He is intent on Adele, who is pulling a pink satin dress out of the box.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): I'm not fond of children.
ADELE: Oh Ciel! Que c'est beau!
ROCHESTER: Nor do I particularly enjoy simple-minded old ladies. But you might suit me - if you would.
JANE: How, sir?
ROCHESTER: By distracting me from the mire of my thoughts. Adele, irrepressible, runs across the room embracing the dress. She drops on one knee at Rochester's feet.
ADELE: Monsieur, je vous remercie mille fois de votre bonte... She looks up, seeking his approval.
ADELE (CONT'D): That is how Maman used to say, is it not?
ROCHESTER: Precisely.
MRS FAIRFAX: Let's try it on, shall we? Adele skips off with Mrs Fairfax.
ROCHESTER: And that is how she charmed my English gold out of my English breeches pocket. Rochester notices how keenly Jane is observing him.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): Your gaze is very direct, Miss Eyre? D'you think me handsome?
JANE: No sir. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 46. Rochester laughs.
JANE (CONT'D): I was too plain; I beg your pardon.
ROCHESTER: What fault do you find with me? I have all my limbs and all my
JANE: Mr Rochester, it was a blunder. I ought to have replied that beauty is of little consequence -
ROCHESTER: Now you stick a knife under my
JANE: You have other qualities, sir.
ROCHESTER: Just so; other qualities... When I was your age I was a felling enough fellow. I might have been insulted then. You're blushing Miss Eyre.
JANE: Not at all.
ROCHESTER: And though you're not pretty any more than I am handsome, I must say it becomes you.
(HE LAUGHS): And now I see you're fascinated by the flowers on the rug. Jane senses his mockery.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): I'd like to draw you out. Come, speak to me.
JANE: What about, sir?
ROCHESTER: The choice of subject is entirely yours.
JANE: How can I introduce a subject when I don't know what'll interest you? Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 47.
ROCHESTER: The fact is, Miss Eyre, I don't wish to treat you like an inferior.
JANE: Yet you'd command me to speak?
ROCHESTER: Well I probably have a right to be a little abrupt and exacting on the grounds of my superiority in age. There must be twenty years between us and a century's advance in experience.
JANE: I don't think you have a right to command me just because you're older. Your claim to superiority depends on the use you've made of your time and experience.
ROCHESTER: I've made indifferent use of both. And this is why I sit, galled by my own thoughts - and order you to divert me. Are you very hurt by my tone of command? Jane smiles.
JANE: There are few masters who'd trouble to enquire whether their paid subordinates were hurt by their commands.
ROCHESTER: Oh yes... paid subordinate; I'd forgotten the salary. Well on that mercenary ground, will you consent to speak with me as my equal - without thinking that the request arises from insolence?
JANE: I'd never mistake informality for insolence, sir. One, I rather like. The other, nothing free born should ever submit to - even for a salary.
ROCHESTER: Humbug. Most free-born things would submit to anything for a salary. But I mentally shake hands with you for your answer.
(MORE): Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 48.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): Not three in three thousand schoolgirl governesses would have answered me as you've just done.
JANE: You've clearly not spent much time in the company of schoolgirl governesses. I'm the same plain kind of bird as all the rest, with my couple of accomplishments and my common tale of woe.
ROCHESTER: I envy you.
JANE: How?
ROCHESTER: Your openness, your clear conscience, your unpolluted mind. If I were eighteen I think we truly would be equals. Nature meant me to be a good man, one of the better kind and as you see, I am not so.
JANE: Are you a villain then, sir?
ROCHESTER: I'm a trite commonplace sinner, hackneyed in all the dissipations that the rich and worthless try to put on life.
(HE SIGHS): When I was your age, fate dealt me a blow. I was - cursed with a burden to carry through life. I lacked the wisdom to remain cool and I turned desperate. Dread remorse, Miss Eyre. It is the poison of life. Rochester takes in her open, compassionate face.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): And since happiness is denied me, I've a right to get pleasure in its stead. And I will get it, cost what it may.
JANE: Then you'll degenerate still more.
ROCHESTER: Are you preaching to me? Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 49.
JANE: I'm reminding you of your own words; remorse is the poison of life.
ROCHESTER: But, Miss Eyre, if the pleasure I was seeking was sweet and fresh; if it was an inspiration; if it wore the robes of an angel of light... what then?
JANE: I don't know. To speak truth, I don't understand you at all.
ROCHESTER: My heart has long been a charnel house. Perhaps it'll transform into a shrine.
JANE: Sir, I find the conversation has got out of my depth.
ROCHESTER: You're afraid of me because I talk like a sphynx.
JANE: I'm not afraid.
ROCHESTER: Yes you are.
JANE: I've simply no wish to talk nonsense.
ROCHESTER: If you did it would be in such a grave, quiet manner that I would mistake it for sense. Do you never laugh, Miss Eyre? This question cuts Jane to the quick.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): Only rarely, perhaps. But you're not naturally austere, any more than I'm naturally vicious. I can see in you the glance of a curious sort of bird through the close set bars of a cage: a vivid, restless, resolute captive. Were it but free, it would soar. Cloud high. Jane opens her mouth to speak - but she cannot. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 50.
JANE: Just as it turns to come down - that's when you hit it. Adele serves. The game continues apace. Rochester wanders out of the open double doors of the library. He watches. Something lands at his feet. A rook's feather. He looks up at the battlements. A shape disappears, too fast to see. Rochester's features cloud over with an expression of shame and detestation. He stands in a terrible inner conflict. Jane notices him - she misses her shot.
JANE (CONT'D): Mademoiselle has got to rest.
ADELE: Because I start to win!
JANE: Have mercy, Adele. Play with Pilot for a while. Rochester is leaning over the balustrade, his head bowed.
JANE (CONT'D): Is our game disturbing you, sir? He looks up. A hard and cynical expression has mastered his countenance, something resolute. Jane is taken aback.
ROCHESTER: On the contrary. I like your game. I like this cold, hard day. I like Thornfield. Rochester picks up the black feather. He starts to walk across the grounds at a fast pace. Jane follows.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): I've been arranging a point with my destiny, Miss Eyre. My destiny stood up there by that chimney, like one of the hags who appeared to Macbeth. 'You like Thornfield?' She said. 'Like it if you dare'. Well, I dare. It's felt like a plague house for years - He turns, the whole house now in his sights. He shouts: Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 51.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): But Thornfield is my home and I shall like it! Adele is running after them.
ADELE: Mademoiselle - Il faut jouer - Rochester snaps at her with shocking ferocity.
ROCHESTER: Get back! Keep at a distance child, or go in! Adele's face crumples into tears. Rochester sees Jane's shock at his outburst. He walks away. Jane isn't sure whether she has been dismissed or not. Adele has run back to Pilot. Jane watches her. She suddenly finds Rochester is back at her side. He walks her along.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): She's the daughter of an opera dancer, Celine Varens. Celine was a beauty and she professed to love me. Her ardour was so great that, ugly as I am, I believed myself her idol. So I installed in her in a hotel, gave her servants, gowns cashmeres, diamonds - in short, I was an idiot.
JANE: To fall in love, sir?
ROCHESTER: You've never felt love, have you Miss Eyre? Your soul still sleeps.
JANE: Does it?
ROCHESTER: You're still floating gently in the stream of life, unaware of the rocks ahead waiting to dash you to pieces.
JANE: Were you dashed to pieces, Mr Rochester?
ROCHESTER: Not by Celine. How can one ever truly love a woman one has paid for?
(MORE): Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 52.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): It ended when I visited her unexpectedly one night and caught her with her handsome, charmless lover. I overheard her waxing lyrical on all my defects - she was mercenary, heartless, senseless. The whole intoxication fell away like a dream. I left her money to support the little French floweret over there, whom she swore blind was mine. I see no proof of my grim paternity in her features; I think Pilot is more like me than she.
JANE: But you took her on? Adele is curled up, seeking comfort from the dog.
ROCHESTER: Some years later, I heard that Celine had abandoned the brat, disappeared to Italy and left it destitute. So I lifted it from the mud and slime of Paris and brought it here, to grow up clean in the wholesome soil of an English country garden. My one good work in a sea of countless sins. Jane is looking at Adele full of compassion.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): You listen, Miss Eyre, as if it was the most usual thing in the world for a man like me to tell stories of his opera-mistresses to an inexperienced girl like you. Adele? Adele looks up. Rochester speaks graciously.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): Forgive me; for keeping Miss Eyre from your game for so long. Adele is immensely gratified by his apology.
JANE: Who's there? Footsteps run away. Jane springs out of bed and pulls the door open. A door shuts at the end of the corridor. There is a single candle burning in its holder on the rush matting, flickering in the draft. Jane picks it up. She notices something else - a curling wreath of grey smoke. She follows its trail through the pitch darkness. It is coming thickly from a half-open door at the front of the house - Rochester's. Jane rushes in. Rochester's bed is on fire; the hangings, the curtains, all are alight. The flames are leaping. Rochester is asleep. She shakes him.
JANE (CONT'D): Wake up! Wake up! Sir! Rochester only stirs. The smoke has stupefied him. Jane pulls the burning sheets off - then stops; he is naked. She takes his basin and douses the bed - soaking him.
ROCHESTER: Who's there?
JANE: It is I, Jane Eyre, sir. Jane takes the ewer and throws water on the curtains. She pulls the soggy fabric from its rail and smothers the burning couch. When all the flames are out, she rushes to the windows and opens them. Smoke billows out. She stands in the moonlight, coughing. Rochester is sitting up, staring at her.
ROCHESTER: What in the name of all the elves in Christendom have you done with me?
JANE: For heaven's sake get up. Somebody has plotted something; you must find out who. I'll light the lamp - Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 54.
ROCHESTER: Light the lamp at your peril. Rochester is springing out of bed. Jane turns away, mortified - having caught sight of his silhouetted shape.
JANE: I heard a laugh outside my door loud enough to wake me. I opened it. Someone was running towards the third floor. Rochester is putting on a dressing gown, lighting the lamp.
JANE (CONT'D): And a candle was left burning in the middle of the floor. Shall I fetch Mrs Fairfax, sir?
ROCHESTER: What the deuce can she do?
JANE: Then I'll wake John and Martha.
ROCHESTER: Not at all. Stay here. You're shivering. Rochester gets his coat and puts it round her.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): I have to go to the third floor. Don't make a sound. Sit there. I shan't be long. He goes. Jane looks at his ruined chamber; The blackened drapes on the four poster bed, the fireplace, the huge wardrobe. It is not unlike the red room.
ROCHESTER: Did you see anything when you opened your chamber door?
JANE: Only the candle on the ground. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 55.
ROCHESTER: But you heard a laugh?
JANE: Yes.
ROCHESTER: Have you heard that laugh before?
JANE: There's a woman who sews here; Grace Poole - She laughs in that way, I think.
ROCHESTER: Just so. Grace Poole - you have guessed it. Well, you're no talking fool; please say nothing about this.
ROCHESTER: I will account for this state of affairs. Go back to your room and say nothing.
JANE: Yes, sir. (She takes off his coat) Good-night.
ROCHESTER: Is that how you're going to leave me?
JANE: You said I should go. Rochester approaches her.
ROCHESTER: Jane, fire is a horrible death. You have saved my life. Don't walk past me as if we were strangers.
JANE: What am I to do then, sir?
ROCHESTER: At least... shake hands. Rochester holds out his hand. Jane takes it. They shake. Rochester wraps Jane's hand in both of his. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 56.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): I have a pleasure in owing you my life.
JANE: There is no debt.
ROCHESTER: I knew you would do me good in some way. I saw it in your eyes when I first beheld you. Their expression did not - did not strike delight into my very inmost being so, for nothing. People talk of natural sympathies... You. Rochester is drawing her slowly closer. Jane, disconcerted, is trying to resist.
JANE: Good night then, sir.
ROCHESTER: So you will leave me?
JANE: I'm cold.
ROCHESTER: Go. At last, he relaxes his grip. She backs away. She goes.
GRACE: Good day to you, miss.
JANE: What's happened here?
GRACE: Only master reading in his bed last night.
(MORE): Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 57.
GRACE (CONT'D): Fell asleep with his candle lit and the curtains got on fire. Managed to put it out with the water from his stand. Did you not hear anything, miss?
JANE: I did. I heard a strange laugh.
GRACE: It's hardly likely the master would laugh when he was in such danger. Perhaps you were dreaming.
JANE: I was not.
GRACE: Then you didn't think of opening your door and looking out? Jane is infuriated. She turns on her heel.
JANE: Has Mr Rochester not sent for us today?
MRS FAIRFAX: Why, he's gone away. Were you not aware? He left after breakfast. Jane takes this piece of news like an invisible shock.
JANE: Oh?
MRS FAIRFAX: I saw her two years ago when Mr Rochester had a party here. Oh, she was a beauty; I daresay the most elegant girl I've ever seen. So tall, with raven hair cascading down her back; I don't know how she'd had it done. She sang a duet with Mr Rochester. They made a lovely harmony.
(MORE): Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 58.
ADELE: Qu'avez vous mademoiselle?
JANE: (without looking at her) Nothing. Speak in English, please. Jane turns, expecting to see Adele.
JANE: Thank you, girls. You may go.
ST JOHN: Do you find the work too hard? Jane immediately puts on a sprightly face and continues clearing up.
JANE: Not at all. I'm getting on very well.
ST JOHN: Do you feel the solitude an oppression?
JANE: I hardly have time to notice it.
ST JOHN: Then perhaps your accommodations have disappointed you. They are in truth scanty enough - Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 59.
JANE: A few months ago I had nothing. I was wretched. Now I have a home and work; free and honest. I wonder at the goodness of God and at the generosity of my friends. St John approaches her; speaks intimately.
ST JOHN: What you had left before I met you, I don't know. But I counsel you to resist firmly every temptation to look back.
JANE: It's what I mean to do.
ST JOHN: We can overcome every kind of human weakness. A year ago I was myself intensely miserable. I considered my life was so wretched that it must be changed - or I would die. After a season of darkness and struggling, light broke. I heard my call from God. Put your trust in him, Jane. Let him lead you to your future.
JANE: Thank you. St John is turning to go.
JANE (CONT'D): Why were you intensely miserable?
ST JOHN: A year ago, I was weak enough to fall in love. Jane moves involuntarily towards him.
JANE: You could have been happy.
ST JOHN: A slave in a fool's paradise? I'd rather my life had purpose - St John suddenly snatches up a piece of paper.
JANE: Yes. His eyes, in an instant, seem to take in everything about her. He opens his mouth to speak - then checks himself.
JANE (CONT'D): What's the matter?
ST JOHN: Nothing in the world. He folds the paper and takes it.
MRS FAIRFAX: He's back in three days he says - heavens that's Thursday - and not alone. He gives directions to prepare all the best rooms. I'm to get more staff from the George Inn. The ladies will bring their maids, the gentlemen, valets. We must accommodate them all. Supplies to be got; linen, the
MATTRESSES -: Mrs Fairfax has worked herself up into quite a panic. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 61.
JANE: May I assist you, Mrs Fairfax? We see Mrs Fairfax approach Jane in a rush of gratitude.
UNDER COOK: She gets good wages, I'd guess?
LEAH: Wish I had as good; not one fifth what Mrs Poole receives. Jane affects not to listen, but is keenly interested.
LEAH (CONT'D): And she's laying it all by. I shouldn't wonder if she's saved enough to keep her independent.
UNDER COOK: She's a good hand, I daresay.
LEAH: Not everyone could do it, that's for sure, not even for the money.
UNDER COOK: No wonder the master relies on
HER -: Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 62. Leah notices Jane's curious glance. She nudges the under cook. Jane, picks up the bottles and carries them away. As she passes she hears:
ADELE: They're here! They're here! Mrs Fairfax tries to get her apron off. She becomes flustered. Jane helps her.
MRS FAIRFAX: Thank you. Mrs Fairfax and Adele go. Jane looks out of the window. Her attention is focussed on two equestrians who lead the arriving party; Rochester and Blanche, the dark beauty at his side. She is laughing at something. The sun shines behind her. Jane is dazzled. She turns away.
JANE: Excuse me, miss. Blanche gives her a look of ice. Rochester is at the top of the stairs.
ROCHESTER: Good evening. They both turn. Rochester has seen Blanche, not Jane. He offers her his arm, his gaze full of admiration. Jane sinks back into the shadows.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): May I? Blanche lays her gloved hand on Rochester's arm, barely touching him. They glide away. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 63.
JANE: What is it, darling?
ADELE: She sing like Maman. Jane, full of compassion, takes Adele back to her room.
MRS FAIRFAX: Tonight. He wants you both in the drawing room after dinner. Adele leaps up, delighted. Jane is crestfallen.
JANE: Not me, surely.
MRS FAIRFAX: It's his particular wish.
JANE: He was being polite.
MRS FAIRFAX: I'm instructed to tell you that if you resist, he'll come up and get you himself. You needn't stay long. Just let him see you and then slip away. Don't worry; no one'll look at you.
JANE: May I present Miss Adele Varens?
ADELE: Bon jour, mesdames, monsieurs. Jane finds it hard to get a proper impression of the guests, as she cannot raise her eyes to look at them. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 64. Adele makes a dainty curtsey - pink frock, hair in ringlets, little lace gloves. In the midst of the crowd is Blanche.
BLANCHE: Why, what a little puppet.
LADY INGRAM: (mutton dressed as lamb) Is this your ward, Mr Rochester?
ROCHESTER: Yes.
LOUISA ESHTON: (English rose; nineteen) What a love of a child. Adele blissfully disappears into a moving sea of dresses. Only one guest is still looking in Jane's direction; Blanche. Her lip curls in distaste. Jane backs into a nearby window seat; always her place of refuge. She closes her eyes. A great Atlantic wave hits the sash window behind her, drenching it with foam and brine. When she opens her eyes, Rochester is in her line of vision, standing out in a crowd of unmanly men. He senses her gaze; glances at her. Jane looks down, pulling her work on to her lap; a beaded purse. She does not lift her eyes from the beads, fully feeling the humiliation of her class - and of her love. Blanche sidles up to Rochester.
BLANCHE: I thought you weren't fond of children?
ROCHESTER: You're right; I'm not.
BLANCHE: Then what induced you to take charge of that little doll? Rochester turns away from Jane.
ROCHESTER: She was left on my hands.
BLANCHE: Why don't you send her to school?
ROCHESTER: She has a governess. Jane glances up; sees Rochester's back to her, throws her eyes down, once more. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 65.
BLANCHE: You should hear mamma on the chapter of governesses. I had half a dozen in my day - all detestable, ridiculous incubi - were they not, mamma?
LADY INGRAM: Did you speak, my lily flower?
BLANCHE: I said governesses. The reaction is instant.
LADY INGRAM: Oh, don't mention them; the very word makes me nervous! I've suffered a martyrdom from their incompetence and caprice. I thank heaven we're now done with them.
BLANCHE: I have just one word to say of the whole tribe; nuisance. Jane's fingers sew. Only the briefest flash of her eyes towards the company shows her mortification. Blanche has started playing a brilliant prelude on the piano.
BLANCHE (CONT'D): We shall have music - and new subject, if you please. Signor Eduardo, what shall it be?
ROCHESTER: Donna Bianca, I give you beauty.
BLANCHE: Beauty? Why there's nothing new to be said. I give you back male beauty. Mamma, what's your idea of male beauty?
LADY INGRAM: My son, of course.
LORD INGRAM: Hear hear.
BLANCHE: Oh, Tedo's quite typical of the young men of today. They're so absorbed in the pursuit of fashion that they've forgotten how to be men at all. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 66.
LORD INGRAM: I say -
BLANCHE: A woman who neglects herself is a blot on humanity. But a man should pay no heed to his looks. (Glancing at Rochester) A man should possess only strength and valour. He could be a gentleman or a highwayman. His beauty lies in his power.
ROCHESTER: So a Levantine pirate would do for you?
BLANCHE: As long as he resembled you. Rochester laughs loudly. Jane is heading for the door.
BLANCHE (CONT'D): I am serious. To my mind, a man is nothing without a spice of the devil in him. Jane closes the door on Blanche. She breathes in fresh air, nauseous. Blanche's splendid prelude drifts out. Rochester comes into the hall from the other door. Jane instantly bends down and pretends to be tying her shoe.
ROCHESTER: Why did you leave the room?
JANE: I am tired, sir.
ROCHESTER: Why didn't you come and speak to me? I haven't seen you for weeks. It would have been normal and polite to wish me good evening.
JANE: You seemed engaged, sir.
ROCHESTER: What have you been doing while I've been gone?
JANE: Teaching Adele.
ROCHESTER: You look pale. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 67.
JANE: I am well.
ROCHESTER: You're depressed; your eyes are shining with tears. What's the meaning of this? Jane catches sight of Mrs Fairfax, who is watching them with an expression of unease. Rochester glares at her.
MRS FAIRFAX: A gentleman has arrived to see you, sir.
ROCHESTER: Who?
MRS FAIRFAX: He says he's travelled a long way, from Spanish Town, Jamaica - Rochester seems winded.
ROCHESTER: Spanish Town...
MRS FAIRFAX: Mr Richard Mason. He says you're old friends. I've put him in the morning room. Rochester cannot speak.
ROCHESTER: Not at all. Please tell him I'll see him directly. Mrs Fairfax goes.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): Oh Jane - Jane. This is a blow.
JANE: Can I help you sir? In the drawing room, Blanche's prelude finishes to enthusiastic applause. Rochester has Jane's hand. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 68.
ROCHESTER: Jane, if all those people came and spat at me, what would you do?
JANE: Turn them out of the room sir, if I could.
ROCHESTER: And if they cast you out for adhering to me?
JANE: I should care nothing about it.
ROCHESTER: You'd dare censure for my sake? Jane is frightened of his passion.
JANE: For the sake of any friend who deserved it. Rochester lets her hand go. He steps back. He goes to the morning room. Jane peers through the door, worrying how her last words have given offence. She sees a man rising to meet Rochester; handsome but gaunt and painfully thin. His smile doesn't reach his eyes - as if his soul is not quite his own.
MASON: Fairfax...
ROCHESTER: Richard. How the devil are you? They embrace, Rochester doing a fine impression of delight.
HELEN: He is yours. Jane looks down at the bundle. In it, is a newborn boy. Jane looks up to ask Helen for help. But Helen has gone. Jane alone with her burden, teeters on the stool. The baby starts to cry. Jane panics. The crying becomes deafening, terrifying. It is not a baby's cry but a human scream. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 69.
LADY INGRAM: Oh what is it?
BLANCHE: Who is hurt?
LORD INGRAM: Where the devil is Rochester? Rochester comes forth from the door at the end of the gallery, holding a candelabra.
ROCHESTER: I'm here, be composed. Blanche flies towards him like a banshee.
BLANCHE: What awful event has taken place? She embraces him. Rochester patiently removes her.
ROCHESTER: A servant has had a nightmare, that's all. She's an excitable, nervous person and has taken a fit with fright. Jane, the only person behind Rochester, sees by the light of her candle that his dressing gown is trailing blood.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): Now I must see you back into your rooms because until the house is settled, she can't be properly looked after. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 70.
BLANCHE: Is there anything I might do?
ROCHESTER: Miss Ingram, ladies, please return to your nests like the doves that you are. You'll take cold for certain if you stay in this icy gallery any longer. The candles flicker and fade as the guests make their way back to their rooms. Rochester sees Jane.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): Come this way. Make no noise.
ROCHESTER: Be steady. I need you. He unlocks it. A room hung with tapestries; a four poster bed with its curtains half drawn. One part of the tapestry is hooked up over a hidden door - which lies open to an inner chamber. A dull, sickly light shines out.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): Wait. He goes to the inner chamber. A grim laugh greets him.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): Thank you, Mrs Poole. He locks the door. Jane shudders. He goes to the bed.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): Here. Bring the candle. Jane obeys. Richard Mason is lying, one arm and all the linen soaked in blood. Jane controls her reaction and makes herself useful. Rochester is cleaning the wound.
MASON: Am I dying?
ROCHESTER: No.
MASON: She bit me - while the knife was in - Bit me - Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 71.
ROCHESTER: It was folly to attempt the interview tonight and alone.
MASON: I thought I might have done some good.
ROCHESTER: It makes me impatient to hear you.
MASON: She sucked the blood. Said she'd drain me - like a vampire -
ROCHESTER: Think of her as dead, dead and buried. Say nothing! Mason is silenced. Rochester puts the bloody sponge into Jane's hand.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): I am going for a doctor. I must leave you here with him. Sponge the blood away when it returns. Give him water if he wants it. Do not speak to him for any reason. And Richard - on pain of death - do not speak to her. Rochester takes the candelabra. He is gone. Mason is staring at Jane. There is something about the pupils in his eyes that she finds deadly, chilling. She dips the sponge in the bloody water and wipes away the trickling gore. She hears a low moan. She looks over at the door to the inner chamber, aching to know the mystery behind it. Mason makes her start by taking her wrist. He is trying to say something. Jane puts her finger to her lips. She is begging him not to speak.
DR CARTER: I only wish I could have got here sooner. He'd not have bled so much.
ROCHESTER: Jane, make sure the way is clear. Jane looks out on to the gallery. She is pale, drawn. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 72.
ROCHESTER: I'll ride over tomorrow to see how you do. Goodbye, Richard.
MASON: Fairfax - Let her treated as tenderly as may be -
ROCHESTER: I do my best and have done it and will do it! The carriage goes. Jane prepares to go inside but Rochester walks her towards the orchard.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): Come, Jane. That house is a dungeon, don't you feel it?
JANE: It seems to me a splendid mansion, sir.
ROCHESTER: It is slime and cobwebs.
JANE: Will Grace Poole stay here now?
ROCHESTER: Oh yes, don't trouble your head about her.
JANE: But sir -
ROCHESTER: Grace Poole is not the danger. He walks off, pulling the heads off flowers as he passes.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): You've noticed my tender feelings for Miss Ingram? Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 73.
JANE: Yes sir.
ROCHESTER: Keep vigil with me again, the night before I marry. For now you've met my lovely one and you know her. She's a rare one, isn't she?
JANE: Yes sir.
ROCHESTER: A strapper, a real strapper; big and buxom... He throws a cankered rose across the orchard. Jane manages to articulate her anxiety.
JANE: I'd do anything for you sir, anything that was right.
ROCHESTER: And if I ever bid you do what was wrong, you'd turn to me, quiet and pale and say 'I cannot do it.' And you'd be as immutable as a fixed star. Rochester, gazing at her, seems to have decided something. He turns a corner and is gone. Jane is left alone. We hear the sound of a blow.
JOHN: That's for the look you had on your face.
JANE: Excuse me, sir. Jane has ruined Blanche's shot. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 74.
BLANCHE: Does that creeping creature want you?
JANE: If you please, I want leave of absence for a week or two.
ROCHESTER: What to do? Jane shows him the letter.
JANE: This is from my old nurse, Bessie. She says my cousin John Reed is dead. He ruined himself and has committed suicide. The news has so shocked his mother, my Aunt, that it's brought on a stroke.
ROCHESTER: What good can you do her?
JANE: She's been asking for me. I parted from her very badly and I can't neglect her wishes now.
ROCHESTER: Promise me you won't stay long.
JANE: Sir, it seems you are soon to be married.
ROCHESTER: What of it?
JANE: Adele should go to school.
ROCHESTER: To get her out of my bride's way who might otherwise trample her?
JANE: And I must seek another situation. I intend to advertise. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 75.
ROCHESTER: At your peril you advertise. Trust it to me. I'll find you a good situation in time. He is on the point of returning to the billiard room.
JANE: And sir? Forgive me but I have had no wages as yet.
ROCHESTER: How much do I owe you?
JANE: Fifteen pounds. Rochester looks in his wallet.
ROCHESTER: Here's fifty.
JANE: That's too much.
ROCHESTER: Take your wages.
JANE: I cannot.
ROCHESTER: Then I only have a ten.
JANE: Now you owe me five.
ROCHESTER: Just so. Come back for it quickly. Meantime, I shall safeguard it in here. He taps the wallet, which is in his breast pocket.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): Do you trust me to keep it, Jane?
JANE: Not a whit, sir. You are not to be trusted at all. Rochester strides away, grinning. Jane turns. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 76.
BESSIE: Bless you! - I knew you'd come. They embrace.
JANE: Bessie... I'm not too late? How is Mrs Reed?
BESSIE: She may linger yet a while. She's spoken of you daily. At first we couldn't tell what she was saying but when her speech came clear we heard 'Jane Eyre, get Jane Eyre.'
JANE: Shall I see her now?
BESSIE: I'll take you up directly. But look at you. What a lady you've become. Why you're almost pretty.
JANE: Aunt Reed? It is Jane Eyre. You sent for me, and here I am. Mrs Reed, with an effort, pulls her hand away from Jane's.
MRS REED: No one knows the trouble I have with that child. Such a burden. Left on my hands. Speaking to me like a fiend. The fever at Lowood. She should have died!
JANE: Why do you hate her so?
MRS REED: Her mother. Reed's sister - his beloved. When news came of her death he wept like a fool. Sent for the baby. Sickly thing - not strong like mine. But Reed loved it. Kept it by his bed. Made me vow to bring the creature up. Why did he not love mine? Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 77. The words are a revelation to Jane. Mrs Reed gazes at her.
JANE: I am Jane Eyre, Aunt.
MRS REED: You. Is there no one in the room? Jane motions Bessie to go.
JANE: We are alone.
MRS REED: I've twice done you wrong. I broke the vow I made to Reed -
JANE: Please, don't think of it -
MRS REED: I am dying; I must get it out! Mrs Reed indicates a box on her bedside table.
JANE: 'Madam, will you have the goodness to send me the address of my niece, Jane Eyre. I desire her to come to me at Madeira. Fortune has blessed my endeavours and as I am childless I wish to adopt her and bequeath her at my death whatever I may have to leave. Yours, John Eyre, Madeira.' Jane is stunned.
JANE (CONT'D): This is dated three years ago. Why did I never hear of it?
MRS REED: Because I wrote and told him you had died of typhus at Lowood school. You fury. You were born to be my torment. I'll never forget how you turned on me and raged.
(MORE): Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 78.
JANE: Forgive me.
MRS REED: You cursed me.
JANE: I would have loved you if you'd let me.
MRS REED: My life has been cursed.
JANE: Please, let us be reconciled. Mrs Reed shrinks from Jane's touch. Jane wipes her tears.
JANE (CONT'D): Then love me or hate me as you will. You have my full and free forgiveness. Now ask for God's - and be at peace. Mrs Reed's eyes close.
JANE: My mother. Bessie nods. A tear rolls down Jane's face. She clasps the picture, looking round the room.
JANE (CONT'D): Why ever was I so afraid?
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): Just like one of your tricks to steal into your home along with the twilight. Where the deuce have you been this last month?
JANE: I have been with my aunt sir, who is dead. Rochester laughs.
ROCHESTER: A true Janian reply. If I dared I'd touch you, to see if you were real... Jane puts out her hand. Rochester takes it. He helps Jane over the stile.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): Go home - stay your wandering feet at a friend's threshold. Jane lets go of his hand.
JANE: Thank you Mr Rochester. I'm strangely glad to get back again to you. Wherever you are is my home. Jane, knowing she has said too much, turns and runs over the fields towards Thornfield.
MRS FAIRFAX: We're expecting the announcement very soon. He went down to London only last week to buy her a new carriage.
JANE: Then we must accept it. He'll soon bring home his bride. Mrs Fairfax nods.
ROCHESTER: Come and look at this fellow, Jane. Jane approaches, wondering how he has sensed her presence. Rochester is looking at a huge moth.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): Look at his wings. He looks West Indian - I have never seen one like him, here. There; flown. They watch the moth as it flies towards the house.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): Thornfield is a pleasant place in summer, isn't it?
JANE: I'll be sad to leave it.
ROCHESTER: Yes, but it can't be helped. I soon hope to be a bridegroom.
JANE: Have you found me a new situation, sir?
ROCHESTER: A situation, yes of course. It's the least I can do for a faithful paid subordinate such as yourself. You're to undertake the education of the five daughters of Mrs Dionysus O'Gall of Bitternut Lodge, Connaught. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 81.
JANE: Connaught?
ROCHESTER: You'll like Ireland. They're such warm-hearted people, they say.
JANE: It is a long way away, sir.
ROCHESTER: From what?
JANE: From here. From you.
ROCHESTER: We've been good friends, Jane haven't we? But with the Irish sea between us you'd soon forget me. Jane's great distress escapes her.
JANE: I wish I could. I wish I'd never come here. I love Thornfield - I've lived a full life here. I've not been trampled on or petrified or buried with inferior minds. I've talked face to face with what I reverence, with what I delight in. I've known you Mr Rochester -
ROCHESTER: Then why must you be torn from me?
JANE: Because of your bride.
ROCHESTER: I have no bride.
JANE: But you will have.
ROCHESTER: Yes, I will.
JANE: Then I must go.
ROCHESTER: You must stay.
JANE: Do you think I could stay to become nothing to you? Am I an automaton, a machine without feelings?
(MORE): Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 82.
JANE (CONT'D): Do you think that because I am poor, obscure, plain and little that I am soulless and heartless?
JANE: I have as much soul as you and full as much heart. I'm not speaking to you through mortal flesh. It's my spirit that addresses your spirit as if we'd passed through the grave and stood at God's feet, equal - as we are. Rochester takes Jane in his arms.
ROCHESTER: As we are. Jane struggles away from him.
JANE: Let me go.
JANE: I'm a free human being with an independent will, which I now exert to leave you. Rochester releases her. She stands in front of him.
ROCHESTER: Then let your will decide your destiny. I offer you my hand, my heart and a share of all this. He gestures towards the house, the land. Jane is stunned.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): I ask you to pass through life at my side. Jane, you are my equal and my likeness. It is you I intend to marry.
JANE: Are you mocking me?
ROCHESTER: Do you doubt me?
JANE: Entirely. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 83.
ROCHESTER: You have no faith in me?
JANE: Not a whit.
ROCHESTER: You little sceptic.
JANE: Your bride is Miss Ingram -
ROCHESTER: What love have I for Miss Ingram? What love has she for me? I caused a rumour to reach her that my fortune was lost and got instant coldness. I wanted to make you jealous, to move you to love me. It's you - you strange, unearthly thing. I love you as my own flesh. You - poor and obscure as you are - please accept me as your husband. Jane begins to believe him.
JANE: Are you in earnest?
ROCHESTER: I must have you for my own.
JANE: You wish me to be your wife?
ROCHESTER: I swear it.
JANE: You love me.
ROCHESTER: I do.
JANE: Then sir, I will marry you. They embrace. Neither Jane nor Rochester moves. Darkness is almost complete. Still the intensity of the embrace is held.
ROCHESTER: It will atone. It will atone. A sheet of lightning momentarily lights up the sky. Some moments later a distant rumble of thunder. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 84.
JANE: I must go.
ROCHESTER: Good night. Good night. He kisses her. They kiss again. Jane will not let him go.
JANE: Good night. As Jane runs upstairs she sees Mrs Fairfax, deeply shocked.
MRS FAIRFAX: Have you accepted him?
JANE: Yes.
MRS FAIRFAX: Well I never would have thought. Jane is hurt.
JANE: Am I a monster? Is it so impossible that Mr Rochester should love me?
MRS FAIRFAX: No, I've long noticed that you were a sort of pet of his. But you're so young and so little acquainted with men. I don't want to grieve you child, but let me put you on your guard. Gentlemen in his position... Let's just say they're not accustomed to marry their governesses. Until you are wed, distrust yourself as well as him. Please, keep him at a distance - Jane has heard enough. She turns away.
JANE: Thank you. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 85.
ROCHESTER: Is this my pale elf? This sunny faced girl with the radiant eyes?
JANE: It is I, Jane Eyre sir.
ROCHESTER: Soon to be Jane Rochester.
JANE: It can never be, sir. Human beings were not meant to enjoy complete happiness on this earth. It's too much like a fairy tale.
ROCHESTER: Let the fairy tale begin.
ROCHESTER: This morning I wrote to my banker in London to send certain jewels. In a day or two I hope to pour them into you lap -
JANE: Oh, no sir -
ROCHESTER: I will put the diamond chain around your neck myself -
JANE: I don't want jewels -
ROCHESTER: I'll dress you in these satins -
JANE: Then you won't know me. I'll not be Jane Eyre any longer but an ape in a harlequin's jacket. Put them away. Jane pushes the silks away. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 86.
ROCHESTER: Well for cool native impudence and pure innate pride, you haven't your equal.
JANE: I'm naturally proud. And hard and flinty. You ought to know what sort of bargain you've made while you've still got time to rescind it. I want only one thing from you, Mr Rochester.
ROCHESTER: And what's that?
JANE: Your regard. Jane puts her arm through Rochester's. He smiles.
ROCHESTER: It's your time now, little tyrant but it'll soon be mine and when I have seized you, to have and to hold, I'll attach you to a chain, like this... Rochester flicks his watch into the air.
JANE: Adele? Jane wakes. There is a candle alight at the end of her bed. Her eyes focus. Her wardrobe is open. Jane is unnerved.
JANE (CONT'D): Adele, is that you? Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 87. A form emerges, a woman, tall and gaunt, with thick, black hair hanging down her back. She is dressed in a nightgown - like a shroud. Over her head, she wears Jane's bridal veil; a phantom bride. Jane is paralysed with terror. The form takes the veil and slowly tears it in half; bruised arms, dirt, predatory nails, neglect. The last thing to be revealed is the woman's face, pale and ghastly. Her eyes are glittering with hatred. The figure takes the candle and bends down to Jane. Her intention looks deadly. Jane's breath catches. She cannot breathe. The figure moves closer, then blows out the candle. Darkness.
ROCHESTER: What is it?
JANE: I'm afraid.
ROCHESTER: Jane, this is the only explanation. It must have been half-dream, half- reality. A woman did enter your room last night and that woman was - must have been - Grace Poole - Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 88.
JANE: It was not Grace Poole. Rochester keeps talking over her.
ROCHESTER: You know how strange she is. What did she do to me? To Mason? In a state between sleeping and waking -
JANE: I was not asleep.
ROCHESTER: You noticed her entrance and her actions but you've ascribed to her an appearance different from her own. That was your nightmare -
JANE: I know what I saw.
ROCHESTER: I see you'd ask why I keep such a woman in my house. When we've been married a year and a day, I promise I'll tell you. Are you satisfied Jane? Do you accept my solution? Jane clearly doesn't. Rochester takes her in his arms.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): Dear God. It was only the veil...
ADELE: Mademoiselle... Adele gives her a small bouquet. Jane hugs her, very moved - as if she is leaving her childhood behind. She turns to go.
SOPHIE: Please, you must look. Jane gazes stupefied at the stranger in the mirror.
ROCHESTER: Come. Rochester grips her hand. They quit the house.
WOOD: I require and charge you both, as ye will answer at the dreadful day of judgement when the secrets of all hearts shall be revealed, that if either of you know any impediment why ye may not be lawfully joined together in matrimony, ye do now confess it. There is not a sound. Rochester still doesn't look at Jane. The clergyman prepares the rings.
WOOD (CONT'D): Edward Fairfax Rochester, do you
TAKE -: A commotion at the back of the church. Two men rapidly enter. One of them Briggs, hurries up the aisle.
BRIGGS: The marriage cannot go on. I declare the existence of an impediment. Rochester moves, shaken.
ROCHESTER: Proceed. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 90.
BRIGGS: The ceremony is quite broken off. An insuperable impediment to this marriage exists.
ROCHESTER: Proceed.
BRIGGS: Mr Rochester has a wife now living. Wood is utterly dismayed.
ROCHESTER: Where is your proof? Briggs starts to read out a document.
BRIGGS (CONT'D): The record of the marriage will be found in the register of that church - a copy of it is now in my possession. Signed, Richard Mason. Rochester turns to Briggs.
ROCHESTER: That does not prove that my wife is still living.
BRIGGS: She was living two months ago.
ROCHESTER: How do you know?
BRIGGS: I have a witness to the fact.
ROCHESTER: Produce him or go to hell. The figure by the door steps out of the shadows. It is Richard Mason. Rochester flies down the aisle, a groan of rage escapes him. He lifts his arm. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 91.
MASON: Good God -
WOOD: Sir, you are in a sacred place - Mason flinches away. Rochester swallows his rage.
ROCHESTER: What have you to say?
MASON: She is at Thornfield Hall. I saw her there in April. I'm her brother. A grim smile contorts Rochester's lips. He turns towards Jane. She remains where she was abandoned - at the altar - tiny, under he vaulted arch. The bouquet falls from her hand. Rochester walks to her.
ROCHESTER: This girl knew nothing. She thought all was fair and legal. She never dreamt she was going to be entrapped into a feigned union with a defrauded wretch. A tiny breath is the only noise Jane utters. Rochester pulls her from the altar to his side.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): Come, Jane, come all of you and meet Mrs Poole's charming patient. Come and meet my wife. The sun outside is blinding. Jane closes her eyes.
ROCHESTER: Get back! Do not come near! Go, all of you - keep your congratulations - they come fifteen years too late! Adele has crumpled into frightened tears. Mrs Fairfax has her hand over her mouth, pale with shock. Jane meets her eye as Rochester pulls her up the stairs. A revelation. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 92.
GRACE: Sir, you can't be bringing folk in here. It's madness. Bertha Antoinetta Mason stands, amazed at the sight of her visitors. She wears a white shift. There are black rook feathers twined in her hair; her only ornament.
ROCHESTER: This clothed hyena is my wife. Bertha's pose is dignified, her expression grows triumphant. She approaches Rochester - her eyes locked with Jane's. Jane gazes: fear, disgust, compassion.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): I was duped into marriage with this lunatic fifteen years ago. Briggs and Wood are deeply repelled.
WOOD: Let us go. We have seen enough. Bertha puts her arm through Rochester's; lays her head on his shoulder; smiles at Jane, magnanimous in her victory.
ROCHESTER: My own demon, Bertha. With shocking speed and strength Bertha lays her nails into Rochester's cheek. He struggles with her. Grace assists Rochester. They do not hit; they subdue. Bertha's attack is effectively contained. They have her on her knees, her arms behind her. Bertha lifts her head and screams. If a scream could express the agony of a whole soul then this would. Jane turns on her heels. She stumbles, finds the door, exits.
BRIGGS: You, madam, are clearly not to blame. Your uncle will be glad to hear it. Jane looks at Briggs, only dimly comprehending him.
BRIGGS (CONT'D): You wrote to your uncle, did you not? To inform him you were going to marry Mr Rochester? Mr Mason was staying with him when your letter came. Briggs gets only a blank look of puzzlement from Jane.
BRIGGS (CONT'D): Mr John Eyre has been the Madeira correspondent of the Mason trading house for some years. You can imagine his distress when Mason revealed the real state of matters. Jane starts walking towards the sanctuary of her room.
BRIGGS (CONT'D): He would have come himself but I'm sad to tell you that his health is in mortal decline. He implored Mr Mason to prevent this false marriage and referred him to me for assistance. I only hope that he survives long enough to hear that you are safe. Jane opens her door. She turns to Briggs.
JANE: Thank you. She shuts the door on Briggs and on the world.
CUT TO:: Jane, standing in stillness with the pearl dress crumpled around her feet.
CUT TO:: Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 94. Jane has taken a black stuff dress off its hangar. She slowly puts her arms around it, as if it is her old self. She holds it, her eyes staring at nothing.
CUT TO:: Jane in her underclothes, sitting down on the bed. She closes her eyes.
CUT TO:: Jane, dressed in black in the silver light, putting her brush, comb and brooch in a bag. She looks in her purse. She has some coins.
ROCHESTER: Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 95. His cheek has been cut by Bertha's nails.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): Five minutes more of that death- like hush and I'd have forced the lock. He examines her face. He is desperate.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): No tears. Your heart has been weeping blood. Forgive me. Rochester buries his head in Jane's arms. She automatically comforts him.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): How could I? I am a worthless sinner. Don't spare me. Rain your tears up on me.
JANE: I cannot.
ROCHESTER: I deserve a hail of fire. Jane extricates herself from his embrace.
JANE: I'm tired and sick. I need some water. Rochester perceives Jane's inanition. He carries her down the gallery. Jane clings on to her bag of belongings. She has nothing else left.
ROCHESTER: How are you now?
JANE: Much better, sir. I shall be well again soon. Rochester paces away to the fire. He comes back. Stoops his head down to Jane to kiss her. She turns her head away.
ROCHESTER: I know you. You are thinking. Talking is no use; you are thinking how to act. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 96.
JANE: All is changed, sir. I must change too.
ROCHESTER: Yes. There is no doubt that we both must change. I was wrong ever to keep you here; this narrow stone vault with its one real fiend. I'll shut it up. I'll pay Mrs Poole two hundred a year to care for its inmate and then no one will be harmed when she is prompted to burn people, to stab them, to bite the flesh from their bones -
JANE: Sir - you speak of her with hate - it is cruel. She cannot help being mad.
ROCHESTER: It's not because she's mad that I hate her. If you were mad do you think that I'd hate you?
JANE: I do.
ROCHESTER: Then you know nothing about me, nothing about the way I love. Your mind is my treasure - and if it were broken it would be my treasure still. You are my sympathy, my better self, my angel. I will wrap my whole existence round you. Let us leave here tomorrow. Come with me - as my wife.
JANE: No.
ROCHESTER: I'll pledge you my fidelity -
JANE: You can't.
ROCHESTER: You'll live a happy, most innocent life -
JANE: I must leave you, sir. Rochester cannot take this in. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 97.
ROCHESTER: Don't you love me?
JANE: I do love you - But I mustn't show it or speak it ever again. I must begin a new existence - strange scenes among strange faces. I must part from you.
ROCHESTER: Must be a part of me; that's what you mean. You are my wife, Jane. In truth -
JANE: You have a wife already.
ROCHESTER: I was tricked, duped into wedlock with that demon-hate, that harlot, that succubus upstairs. My father wanted her money and so I was sent to Spanish Town and the match was made. I hardly spoke with her. I was dazzled, ignorant, raw. My senses were besotted and I married her - gross, grovelling mole-eyed blockhead that I was. Rochester sits, staring at the fire.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): I lived with her for four years. She dragged me through all the degrading agonies which attend those bound to the intemperate and unchaste. Her excesses developed germs of madness and the doctors shut her up. One night, unable to bear her screaming hate and knowing I could never be rid of her, I put a gun to my head to kill myself. Jane is both appalled and moved.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): I would have pulled the trigger, died in that tropical place but for a breeze which blew in from the sea and smelt of home. With it, I came to my senses. Bertha Antoinetta Mason had abused my long suffering, sullied my name, outraged my honour and blighted my youth. It was enough. At that moment, as I decided to live, she ceased to be my wife.
(MORE): Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 98.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): Only my father and brother knew of the marriage and by then they were both dead. I let my connection with her be buried in oblivion and I brought her here. I have seen that she's cared for as her condition demands and that is all that God and humanity asks.
JANE: I earnestly pity you, sir. He sees that Jane is silently crying.
ROCHESTER: Jane, it's not pity that I see in your face. It's not pity -
JANE: Do not say it -
ROCHESTER: It is love.
JANE: They are holding each other.
ROCHESTER: I was wrong to deceive you. It was cowardly. I should have appealed to your spirit - as I do now - should have opened my life, described my hunger for a better existence - shown you my chains. I give you my life. I give you my pledge. Please, be my wife.
JANE: I can not.
ROCHESTER: You would be my equal.
JANE: How?
ROCHESTER: I would make it so.
JANE: You once told me that hiring a mistress is the next worse thing to buying a slave.
ROCHESTER: Not my mistress - Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 99.
JANE: I would not degrade you by having you live with a slave.
ROCHESTER: I said wife, my wife - Jane tries to rise. Rochester keeps hold of her hand. He gently pulls her down again. Comforts her.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): Do you really mean to leave me?
JANE: I do.
ROCHESTER: Jane... He kisses her gently, lovingly.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): Do you mean it now?
JANE: I do. He runs his hands over her, with great tenderness. Jane offers no resistance.
ROCHESTER: And now? Jane nods.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): Oh Jane... Rochester lays her down.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): What friends would you offend by living with me? Who would be injured? Who would care? Jane is almost lost. She speaks in a small voice.
JANE: I would.
ROCHESTER: Jane, it would not be wicked to love me...
JANE: It would be to obey you. I care for myself. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 100. Jane's resolve grows. She resists.
JANE (CONT'D): The more alone, the more friendless, unsustained I am, the more I must respect myself -
ROCHESTER: Will you listen to me?
JANE: I must listen to myself -
ROCHESTER: Will you hear reason?
JANE: Let me go -
ROCHESTER: Because if you won't I'll try violence. Jane instantly stops resisting. She looks at him with utter shock. He is above her.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): I could bend you with my finger and thumb; a mere reed you feel in my hands. Jane neither moves nor speaks.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): But your eye; resolute, free. What ever I do with this cage I cannot get at you. And it is you, soul, that I want. Why don't you come of your own free will here, to my heart? Oh come, Jane, come -
JANE: God help me! All the life seems to go out of Rochester. He lets Jane go. She pulls herself away from him. She stands. He remains, his face buried. She goes to the door. Rochester turns his eyes to her.
ROCHESTER: You have never called me by my name. My name is Edward. Jane cannot speak it. She turns away. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 101.
JANE: Edward. There is a loud knock on the door. Jane starts.
CUT TO:: Jane opening the door. Rochester is there, standing in the frozen hurricane and howling darkness.
ROCHESTER: Jane. Jane pulls him inside. She falls into his arms. They embrace passionately. Jane is actively pulling him towards her, delirious with love and longing.
CUT TO:: The exact same shot of Jane opening the door. St John Rivers is there, having waded through the drifting snow.
JANE: Mr St John - What on earth brings you away from your hearth on a night like this? Has anything happened? There's no bad news I hope?
ST JOHN: How easily alarmed you are. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 102. He takes off his cloak; stamps the snow off his boots.
JANE: You are recklessly rash about your own health.
ST JOHN: Nonsense. St John's eyes alight on Jane's charcoal drawing. Jane snatches it away too late. There is a moment of silence.
JANE: Why are you come?
ST JOHN: An inhospitable question.
JANE: I mean on a night like this -
ST JOHN: I got tired of my mute books and empty rooms. Besides I've been told half a story and I'm most impatient to find out the end.
JANE: Please... Jane motions to St John to sit. He doesn't. She becomes increasingly uneasy as he speaks.
ST JOHN: Twenty years ago, a poor curate fell in love with a rich man's daughter and married her. She was disowned by her family and two years later the rash pair were both dead. They left a daughter which charity received into her lap - as cold as that snow drift I almost stuck fast in. Charity carried the friendless thing to the house of its rich maternal relations. It was reared by an aunt-in-law; I come to names now - Mrs Reed of Gateshead. Jane starts. She is on her feet.
(MORE): Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 103.
JANE: Mr Rivers! -
ST JOHN: I can guess your feelings but hear me to the end. Of Mr Rochester's character I know nothing but he professed to offer honourable marriage to this young girl and at the very altar she discovered that he had a wife yet alive. His subsequent conduct is a matter of pure conjecture but when the governess was enquired after it was discovered that she had fled Thornfield Hall and no trace of her has since been found. Now isn't that an odd tale?
JANE: Since you know so much, perhaps you can tell me how he is.
ST JOHN: Who?
JANE: Mr Rochester; how is he?
ST JOHN: I'm ignorant of all concerning him. St John opens his pocket book and removes a piece of paper.
JANE: The solicitor - Mr Briggs - does he have any news of Mr Rochester?
ST JOHN: Are you not going to enquire why he has gone to such lengths to find you?
JANE: What does he want with me?
ST JOHN: Merely to tell you that your uncle, Mr John Eyre of Madeira, is dead; that he has left you all his property and that you are now rich.
JANE: What?
ST JOHN: You are rich; quite an heiress. Silence. Jane is flabbergasted.
JANE: How much am I worth?
ST JOHN: Oh a trifle. Twenty thousand pounds - but what of that? The news literally takes Jane's breath away.
JANE: Twenty thousand pounds? St John begins to laugh at Jane's reaction. She has never seen him laugh before. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 105.
ST JOHN: If you'd committed a murder and I'd found you out, you could scarcely look more aghast.
JANE: There must be some mistake. It's two thousand, surely.
ST JOHN: It's twenty. You look desperately miserable about it, I must say. Jane still cannot take it in. She frowns in disbelief.
JANE: Why did Mr Briggs write to you?
ST JOHN: You see, that is the strange thing. It makes me wonder what power or providence led you to our door. Your name is Jane Eyre.
JANE: Yes.
ST JOHN: Then I'm you namesake. I was christened St John Eyre Rivers.
JANE: St John Eyre -
ST JOHN: My mother had two brothers, one was a clergyman, your father, the other was John Eyre of Madeira. Mr Briggs wrote to inform us that the clergyman's daughter was lost. I have been able to find her out; that is all.
JANE: Your mother was my father's sister?
ST JOHN: Yes.
JANE: My uncle John was your uncle John?
ST JOHN: That is correct. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 106.
JANE: So you, Diana and Mary -
ST JOHN: We are cousins, yes. Jane is deeply moved.
JANE: Oh, I am glad! - I am glad! She throws her arms around St John. Tears of happiness start to flow. He, finding it peculiar to be held, gently tries to calm her.
ST JOHN: Here you are neglecting essential points to pursue trifles. You were utterly downhearted when I told you that you were rich and now, for a matter of no moment, you are deliriously happy.
JANE: Of no moment? You have sisters and maybe don't care for a cousin but I have nobody. I have been alone, always. And now three relations are born into my world full grown. Oh, I am glad. You, who saved my life -
ST JOHN: You must try to tranquillise your feelings. Jane finally releases him, still radiant with joy.
JANE: Write to Diana and Mary. Tell them to hand in notice and come home. They will have five thousand each and so will you.
ST JOHN: I've told you the news too quickly. You're confused.
JANE: Don't put me out of patience, cousin. I am rational enough. Twenty thousand divided equally between the nieces and nephews of our uncle, gives five to each.
ST JOHN: This is acting on first impulse. You don't know what it is to have
WEALTH -: Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 107.
JANE: And you cannot imagine - family - I never had a home. I never had brothers and sisters - A terrible thought occurs to her.
JANE (CONT'D): You are not reluctant to own me, are you? St John takes her hand. She has surprised and moved him. He looks at her, seeing her anew.
ST JOHN: Jane, I will be your brother.
ST JOHN: Good night.
DIANA: You call Jane your sister but you don't treat her as such. You should kiss her too. Jane turns to Diana, embarrassed.
JANE: Di, you are very provoking. As she turns back, she finds St John's face right in front of her. He kisses her. A kiss with no warmth; an experiment. He examines its effect. He is satisfied. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 108.
ST JOHN: Good night.
ST JOHN: You are wasted here.
JANE: Am I not being useful?
ST JOHN: You should look beyond Moor House, beyond the selfish calm and comfort of affluence.
JANE: Beyond to what?
ST JOHN: I go to India in six weeks.
JANE: So soon? - St John draws Jane away from her work.
ST JOHN: I can see what your gifts are and why they were given. Come with me. Jane is utterly crestfallen.
JANE: I'm not fit for it. I have no vocation.
ST JOHN: You're far too humble. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 109.
JANE: St John have mercy. I feel my mind shrinking -
ST JOHN: Don't be afraid. You are diligent, faithful, docile, courageous, gentle and heroic. Cease to mistrust yourself. I trust you unreservedly. Let me give you time to think. But know this; in you, I recognise a fellow soul, a soul that would revel in the flame and excitement of sacrifice. Jane is chilled to the bone by his words. St John leaves the garden and walks away over the moors.
CUT TO:: Jane leaning against the garden wall, trying to think, trying to compose herself. The sun is setting.
JANE: I used to long for a life of action, to overleap the horizon, to move in the world of men. Maybe God is giving me this. And what is there for me here? Pain and longing for what can't be. I don't know how long I would survive in India. My frame isn't strong. But I'll go with you, if I may go free.
ST JOHN: Free?
JANE: You and I had better not marry.
ST JOHN: Why not?
JANE: Because I am your sister.
ST JOHN: But you'll go with me.
JANE: Conditionally - as your curate. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 110.
ST JOHN: Jane, I don't need a curate; I need a wife.
JANE: I must have my heart and mind free, my own self to turn to. I couldn't become part of you -
ST JOHN: A part of me you must become or the whole bargain is void. How can I, a man not yet thirty take out to India a girl of nineteen, unless she is my wife? Don't offer God half a sacrifice. He must have all. And undoubtedly enough of love would follow to make the union right, even in your eyes. Jane is shocked.
JANE: Enough of love?
ST JOHN: Yes, quite enough.
JANE: St John, I scorn your idea of love. I scorn the counterfeit sentiment you offer and I scorn you when you offer it! St John is mortified. A slow rage begins to boil in him.
ST JOHN: I've uttered nothing that deserves scorn.
JANE: Forgive me but the very name of love is an apple of discord between us. My dear cousin, please abandon your scheme of marriage.
ST JOHN: No; and if you reject it, it's not me you deny but God. Jane is stung. St John has turned from her. His face is icy in the moonlight.
JANE: Do not be angry with me please. It makes me wretched. I want us to be friends. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 111.
ST JOHN: We are friends. I hope we can be more.
JANE: I cannot come as your wife.
ST JOHN: Why this refusal? It makes no sense!
JANE: If I were to marry you, you'd kill me. You're killing me now.
ST JOHN: I'd kill you? I am killing you? Your words are violent, unfeminine and untrue -
JANE: You'd kill me without drawing any blood or receiving on your conscience any stain of crime.
ST JOHN: What nonsense is this?
JANE: You'd experience no pain - but I tell you it would kill me!
ST JOHN: Why?
JANE: Because I would inevitably come to conceive love for you, because you are so talented and good, because there is such grandeur in your look. You wouldn't want this strange and torturing love; if I showed it you would find it unbecoming. And my lot would be wretched.
ST JOHN: Jane...
JANE: You're a good man, but you forget the feelings of little people. We'd better keep out of your way lest you trample us. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 112. St John's anger has faded. He is compassionate. This is far harder to resist.
ST JOHN: I wouldn't trample you. You'd walk at my side towards God's altar. He'd be your solace, heaven your reward. We seek to do the greatest work, to open death's gates, to save souls. Love God Jane, love God. St John puts his hand on her forehead; Christlike. Jane is falling under his power.
JANE: If I were sure; if I were certain - She suddenly hears a voice: Rochester's; clear, urgent.
JANE: Oh God, what is it? She looks wildly about the room; rushes to the window.
ST JOHN: What have you heard? What can you see? Jane glances at him, seeing him for what he is; a cold, controlling man. She shouts:
JANE: I am coming! She runs out, leaving St John aghast, behind her.
JANE: Wait for me! She looks all around her at the moonlit landscape. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 113.
JANE (CONT'D): Where are you? The moors send her question back in an echo. We see Jane's face. Her path is clear.
CUT TO:: Jane finds herself at the side of the house. The ground is pitted with weeds. The windows are dark. She half runs round to the front. What she sees takes her breath away. The great walls and battlements are blackened with fire. Windows gape on a hollow shell. The inside of the house has collapsed. Through the hanging door, only its charred remains can be seen. Weeds grow through utter devastation. Jane gazes in horror and distress.
JANE: They sent me from the inn. I've been up at the house - Jane can say no more.
MRS FAIRFAX: Come in, come in.
JANE: Is he dead? Mrs Fairfax takes Jane in her arms.
MRS FAIRFAX: No, no. Mr Rochester still lives. Jane is crying tears of relief. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 114.
JANE: Tell me - please -
MRS FAIRFAX: Why did you run away in the night like that? I would have helped. I would have helped.
MRS FAIRFAX: He sought you as if you were a lost and precious jewel. He didn't rest. And as days turned into weeks and no word came, he grew quite savage in his disappointment.
JANE: He stayed at Thornfield?
MRS FAIRFAX: Didn't leave the house...
GRACE: Antoinetta? Responsibility floods over him. He goes to her side, lifts Grace, helps her down the stairs.
MRS FAIRFAX: He's alive child, but many think he'd be better off dead. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 117.
JANE: Why?
MRS FAIRFAX: When he was taken out from under the ruins, a beam had fallen in such a way as to protect him, partly - but his eye was taken out and his left hand so crushed that he lost it. The other eye inflamed and - he is blind. He's blind. Tears fall from Jane's eyes.
JANE: I had dreaded worse. I'd dreaded he was mad. A great sense of urgency is coming over her.
JANE (CONT'D): Where is he?
ROCHESTER: I can see the candles, Martha, at your side like a luminous glow. And the fire; a red haze. Pilot notices Jane. He leaps up with a whine, wagging his tail, madly. Jane spills half the water. She cannot help finding it funny. Her entrance has been ruined by the dog.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): Martha? Jane giggles. Rochester's face falls.
ROCHESTER (CONT'D): Martha, is that you?
JANE: Martha is in the kitchen, sir.
ROCHESTER: Who's there?
JANE: Pilot knows me. Will you have some more water? I've spilt half the glass. Rochester stands, holding out his hand.
ROCHESTER: If you are real, touch me. Jane touches his fingers; puts her hand in his. Rochester pulls her into his arms. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 119.
JANE: And her voice.
ROCHESTER: Jane Eyre - Jane Eyre.
JANE: My Edward, I am Jane Eyre: I have found you out. I am come back to you. For some while neither is able to speak.
ROCHESTER: You're not lying dead in some ditch? Not an outcast among strangers?
JANE: I've been with good people; far better than you, quite more refined and exalted.
ROCHESTER: She insults me -
JANE: And I'm an independent woman. My uncle in Madeira died and left me five thousand pounds -
ROCHESTER: This is real. This is practical.
JANE: I'm here. I'm home. I am where I love best.
CUT TO:: Jane curled on Rochester's knee by the fire. He is running his fingers over her face, feeling its contours.
ROCHESTER: You're altogether a human being, Jane?
JANE: I conscientiously believe so, sir. She is running her hands through his hair. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 120.
JANE (CONT'D): But I see that you're turning into a lion. It's time someone undertook to rehumanise you.
ROCHESTER: I'm a sightless block -
JANE: I know. She kisses his eyes.
JANE (CONT'D): And the worst of it is, I'm in danger of loving you too well for this, and making too much of you.
ROCHESTER: Am I hideous, Jane?
JANE: Very. But you always were, you know. A smile cracks Rochester's face. Jane runs her fingers over it, feeling its contours. He holds her. Silence falls.
