"JAWS": Carl Gottlieb Peter Benchley From the novel Peter Benchley
OVER BLACK: Sounds of the innerspaces rushing forward. Then a splinter of blue light in the center of the picture. It breaks wide, showing the top and bottom a silhouetted curtain of razor sharp teeth suggesting that we are inside of a tremendous gullet, looking out at the onrushing undersea world at night. HEAR a symphony of underwater sounds: landslide, metabolic sounds, the rare and secret noises that certain undersea species share with each other. Also, the hint of familiar music, twisted and distorted by the depths.
TOM: Makes a clumsy attempt at snaring Chrissie, cups her from behind. She squirms playfully out of his grasp. We discover he's not especially sober.
TOM: Hey! Hey hey! I'm with you, right?
CHRISSIE: She runs headlong into the inviting sea, plunges cleanly into the water with a light "Whoops!" as the cold water sweeps over her. Behind all this, we continue to hear the sentimental, beery chorus of alma maters. Then we see it a gentle bulge in the water, a ripple that passes her a dozen feet away. A pressure wave lifts her up, then eases her down again, like a smooth, sudden swell.
CHRISSIE: Tommy? Don't dunk me.
BRODY: How come the sun didn't used to shine in here?
ELLEN: 'cause when we bought the house it was Autumn. This is summer. Feed the
BRODY: Do you see the kids?
ELLEN: Do you see the kids?
BRODY: Probably out in the back yard.
ELLEN: In Amity, you say 'Yahd.'
BRODY: The kids are in the yahd, playing near the cah. How's that sound?
ELLEN: Like you're from N'Yawk.
BRODY: Give me 30 years, I'll get it.
BRODY: Did you burn another kettle? Y'know you're a fire hazard? This is the third one!
BRODY: Feed the dogs.
ELLEN: You want to go through those? I'm taking them to the Thrift Shop. It's Marcia Vaughn's pet charity. Pick out what you want to keep it's mostly your city clothes.
BRODY: ( looking through bag, remembering ) I used to wear this to the Garden. Garbage strikes. Dog shit. Muggers. ( he puts it all behind ) Ship it.
ELLEN: Don't be silly -– You're going to make summer better for them.
MICHAEL: Cut my hand. Hit by a vampire.
BRODY: On the swing? I told you not to play near there until I sanded it down. See what your son did?
ELLEN: Go upstairs and bring Mommy a band- Don't forget these.
ELLEN: Don't forget these.
BRODY: Oh, yeah. How do I look? Older, huh?
ELLEN: I think they make you look sexy.
BRODY: Sexy, hm? What was I before?
ELLEN: Older, sillier.
BRODY: ( as he goes to make coffee, he fumbles with the new glasses ) I don't want to depend on these things, y'know -– sometimes you can weaken your eyes.
BRODY: Let's see.
BRODY: Brody. yeah, what's up. mmm. Well, what do they usually do, float or wash up? Really?. okay, I'll meet both of you at the beach in .20 minutes, okay? Okay. First goddamn weekend of the summer.
ELLEN: ( to Brody ) What was that?
BRODY: ( struggling to get his shirt on over his glasses ) The office.
ELLEN: Be careful.
BRODY: Here? You gotta be kiddin'.
BRODY: Love ya.
ELLEN: ( kissing him back ) Hey Chief. Bring my cup back.
CLOSER ANGLE: Deputy Hendricks is searching the shore about one hundred yards down wind. Meanwhile, Brody, in his casual police attire, and Tom Cassidy, still in the clothing we saw him in last night, walk down the beach. Brody fingers the missing girl's shoes, purse and clothes. In the daylight, Cassidy misconducts himself, wavering between inflated maturity and tear-blown adolescence.
BRODY: Christine what?
CASSIDY: Worthingsly. Worthington no one ever died on me before.
BRODY: You picked her up on the ferry.
CASSIDY: I didn't know her.
BRODY: And nobody else saw her in the water?
CASSIDY: Somebody could've I was sort of passed out.
BRODY: Think she might've run out on you?
CASSIDY: Oh, no, sir. I've never had a woman do that. I'm sure she drowned.
BRODY: You from around here?
CASSIDY: No. Cambridge. Harvard. My family's in Tuxedo, New York, though.
BRODY: You here for the summer?
CASSIDY: Some friends and me took a house.
BRODY: ( genuinely curious ) What d'you pay for a place just for the summer?
CASSIDY: A thousand apiece, something like that. There's five of us. And we each kick in a hundred a week for beer and cleaning, stuff like that.
BRODY: Pretty stiff. Maybe that's your girl. You can't make me look !
BRODY: Maybe that's your girl. You can't make me look !
CASSIDY: ( pathetically ) You can't make me look !
BRODY: If this is going to work, you've got to keep current stuff out here, and put 'closed' files in there. The 'Pendings' stay on my desk, okay? This is in no order of importance, Chief: There's a meeting on the Amity Town Council on Aging this Monday night, Bentoncourt Hall. The Fire Inspector wants you to go over the fireworks site with him before he catches the one o'clock ferry. Mainly, you have a batch of calls about that new Karate school.
POLLY: This is in no order of importance, Chief: There's a meeting on the Amity Town Council on Aging this Monday night, Bentoncourt Hall. The Fire Inspector wants you to go over the fireworks site with him before he catches the one o'clock ferry. Mainly, you have a batch of calls about that new Karate school.
POLLY: Searle's Rent-a-Bike, the Rainy Ale, Tisberry's Hardware. they say it's those nine-year-olds from the school practicing karate on all those nice picket fences.
POLLY: It's the Coroner. Somebody pass away in the night?
BRODY: Jesus, Santos.
BRODY: leans forward, staring at what he just wrote. Polly cocks her head and removes the phone from his ear.
POLLY: What's the matter?
BRODY: Polly, I want to know what water recreation is on for today.
POLLY: Right this minute?
BRODY: ( To Hendricks ) Where'd you hide the 'Beach Closed' We never had any. What's the problem?
HENDRICKS: We never had any. What's the problem?
LOCAL MERCHANT: Glad I caught you. There's a city truck with New Hampshire plates parked right in front of my.
KEISEL: ( he stares at Brody's face ) ( stares some more ) Glasses, right?
KEISEL: Look at those fences! Little guys about eight to ten years old. And look at this!
KEISEL: They did that with their bare hands.
BRODY: Call me later in the day, okay, Harry?
LYNWOOD: Stuff's no good to me in August when the Pilgrims come in June. Go on and help yourself to whatever you need, Chief. Can you work the
HENDRICKS: Polly told me to tell you there's a scout troop in Avril Bay doing the mile swim for their Merit Badges. I couldn't call them in, there's no phone out there.
BRODY: ( hands him the sign material ) Get out of there – take these back to the office and make up some 'Beach Closed' signs, and let Polly do the What's the matter with my printing?
HENDRICKS: What's the matter with my printing?
VAUGHN: What have you got there, Lenny?
HENDRICKS: We had a shark attack at South Chop this morning, Mayor. Fatal. Gotta batten down the beach.
VAUGHN: Who've you told this to, Lenny?
HENDRICKS: I just found out about it but there's a bunch of Boy Scouts in the water a coupla miles down the coast from where we found the girl. Avril Bay, thereabouts. Chief went to dry them off.
VAUGHN: ( to Meadows ) Take my car, okay? ( to Hendricks ) You come with us, Lenny.
HENDRICKS: I've got all these signs here.
VAUGHN: C'mon, it'll give us time to think about what they're going to say.
SCOUTMASTER: ( bullhorn effect ) Let's go, Robbie. You too, Hofner. Boyle, keep your head up. Alberts, keep kicking. ( etc., ad lib )
VAUGHN: ( he catches up with him ) Are you going to shut down the beach on your own authority?
BRODY: Do I need any more authority?
MEADOWS: Technically, you need the instruction of a civic ordinance, or a special meeting of the town selectmen.
VAUGHN: ( the good guy ) That's just going by the book. We're just a little anxious that you're rushing into something serious here. This is your first summer.
BRODY: Now tell me something I don't know.
VAUGHN: All I'm saying is that Amity is a summer town we need summer dollars, and if they can't swim here, they'll use the beaches at Cape Cod, or Long So we should set out a smorgasbord?
BRODY: So we should set out a smorgasbord?
MEADOWS: We're not even sure what it was.
BRODY: What else could've done that?
VAUGHN: ( to Doctor ) Boat propeller?
DOCTOR: I think, possibly. sure. A boating Some weekend tramp accidentally goes swimming too far, she's a little drunk, a fishing boat comes along
VAUGHN: Some weekend tramp accidentally goes swimming too far, she's a little drunk, a fishing boat comes along
MEADOWS: Remember when Fred Ganz went scalloping in his BVD's? He was going to swim to New Bedford, he said. .and Bill Mayhew almost caught him in his net.?
MEADOWS: .and Bill Mayhew almost caught him in his net.?
BRODY: ( interrupting the merriment ) Doctor, you're the one who told me what it was!
DOCTOR: I was wrong. We'll have to amend the We never had that kind of trouble I don't think you can appreciate the gut reaction people have to these I was only reacting to what I was
MEADOWS: We never had that kind of trouble I don't think you can appreciate the gut reaction people have to these I was only reacting to what I was
VAUGHN: I don't think you can appreciate the gut reaction people have to these I was only reacting to what I was
BRODY: I was only reacting to what I was
VAUGHN: ( taking Brody aside ) It's all psychological, anyway. You yell 'Barracuda' and everyone says 'huh'. You yell 'Shark' and we've got a panic on our hands. I think we all agree we don't need a panic this close to the 4th of July.
BRODY: I can't work in a vacuum. Why don't you make Hendricks Chief? His family's been here since the Puritans half this island are his cousins.
VAUGHN: Martin, we hired the best man we could find.
VAUGHN: We need someone who isn't prejudiced by old feuds or family ties, someone who can referee things.
MEADOWS: You have our complete support.
VAUGHN: Now then. We've got a vandalism problem we ought to talk about.
SHOPKEEPER: Hello, Mr. Quint.
QUINT: Four spools of Number 12 piano wire, Okay? I ordered them.
SHOPKEEPER: ( finding them under the counter ) Yessir, right here. What do those fish do, eat this stuff?
QUINT: They choke on it.
SHOPKEEPER: Bye now.
MAX TAFT: ( an adult ) Looks like another big season. Gets worse every year.
MRS. TAFT: And none of them from the Island. Just a lot of bother.
THE ADULTS: ( to Taft ) Present company excepted, but off- islanders are a pain in the butt. Pardon my French.
BRODY: ( to Taft ) Present company excepted, but off- islanders are a pain in the butt. Pardon my French.
TAFT: Present company excepted, but off- islanders are a pain in the butt. Pardon my French.
ELLEN: What about this kid? What if he were born here. That make him an islander?
TAFT: Just 'cause a cat has kittens in an oven, it don't make them muffins.
SEAN: I'm not a muffin! I'm a boy!
MRS. KINTNER: Alex! Alex Kintner! Where do you think you're going?
ALEX: Water. Just once more, please?
MRS. KINTNER: Let me see your fingers
MRS. KINTNER: They're beginning to prune. 10 minutes
ELLEN: Do you want the boys to come in? Honey, if you're worried.
BRODY: ( to Keisel ) How's the water?
KEISEL: Too cold. I'm going in again Labor Day. Hope we get this weather next You're very tight, y'know? Right there.
ELLEN: You're very tight, y'know? Right there.
BRODY: ( he sees something ) He's gotta be more careful in the
DOG MAN: Buster! Hey, Buster! Here boy! He continues to ad lib calling his dog, but there's no answer, no dog in the water.
THE WATERFRONT: A huge splash explodes in the water near the gang, an eruption of foam and spray that stops everyone cold for a moment. They stop to see who was responsible.
TOURIST: Something in the water. Right there! Didn't anyone see it?
WOMAN: There's blood in the water.
ELLEN: What is it.?
BRODY: Michael! Sean! Out of the water. Everybody out of the water! Michael! Get out!
MRS. KINTNER: Alex! Alex? Alex.!
BRODY: Look, I've got to talk to her. This isn't a contest we want the whole country entering.
MEADOWS: I agree. If she's going to advertise, I wouldn't recommend out-of-town papers. Amity people could take care of this.
BRODY: I'm responsible for public safety around here.
VAUGHN: Then go out tomorrow and make sure no one gets hurt. Everybody, could I have your attention? Since this affects all of us, I suggest we move into council chambers, where there's more room.
VAUGHN: Well, here we all are; anyone have any special questions?
DENHERDER: Is that $3000 bounty on the shark in cash or check?
VAUGHN: That's private business between you brave fishermen and Mrs. Kintner. I'd like to tell you what we're doing so far. These are some of the steps I've taken as Chief of Police.
BRODY: ( stepping in ) I'd like to tell you what we're doing so far. These are some of the steps I've taken as Chief of Police.
MEADOWS: ( leading the direction of the discussion ) What's going on with the beaches,
BRODY: I'll get to that in a minute. First, I plan to start our seasonal summer help early, and to use shark spotters on beaches open to the sea. I'd like cooperation from local fishermen, and I've also contacted the Oceanographic Institute over on the No need to involve outsiders in our business, Martin.
VAUGHN: ( Interrupting sotto voice to Brody ) No need to involve outsiders in our business, Martin.
WOMAN: Are you going to close the beaches?
BRODY: Larry and I have also decided to close the beaches for a short time.
VAUGHN: Only 24 hours!
BRODY: I didn't agree to that!
MRS. TAFT: That official business could take all summer!
MR. KEISEL: Maybe it's better to close.
MR. WISEMAN: We should make sure there is no danger.
MR. HASSETT: I didn't raise my kids to be some fish's lunch!
THOSE OPPOSED: MRS. TAFT The motel is all I own you pull the plug on this town and I go down the drain with it.
MRS. TAFT: The motel is all I own you pull the plug on this town and I go down the drain with it.
MR. POSNER: Nobody's seen a shark.
MR. POLK: We'll lose business, we lose taxes, we lose our
QUINT: ( after taking a deep breath ) You all know me. You know what I do for a living. I'll go out and get this bird for you. He's a bad one and it's not like goin' down the pond chasing blue-gills and tommy- cods. This is a fish that can swallow a man whole. A little shakin', a little tenderizing and down ya' go. ( a look to Vaughn ) You gotta get this fellow and get him quick. If you do, it'll bring a lot of tourist business just to see him and you've got your business back on a paying basis. ( beat ) A shark of that size is no pleasure and I value my neck at a hell of a lot more'n 3,000 bucks. ( a deadly look ) I'll find him for three. But I'll kill him for ten.
QUINT: ( he rises up ) The bastard is costing you more'n that every day. Do you wanna stay alive and annee up the ten or play it cheap and be on welfare next ( a final moment ) I'm gonna kill this thing. just a matter of whether I do it now or at the end of summer.
VAUGHN: Thank you very much, Mr. Quint, the Selectmen will take your offer under
BRODY: his reading glasses reflecting a stack of twelve library books, all on the subject of sharks and shark attacks. The door opens and Ellen enters, quietly, in respect for Brody's
ELLEN: Can you stand something to eat?
BRODY: Love a cup of tea. With lemon.
ELLEN: Mikey loves his birthday present.
BRODY: Where is he?
ELLEN: ( with a slight laugh ) He's sitting in it.
ELLEN: Honey. He has it tied up to the jetty with a double-knot.
BRODY: Son! Out of the water now!
MICHAEL: My boat's neat, dad!
BRODY: ( turning to Ellen ) I want him out of the ocean.
ELLEN: It's three feet deep, Martin
BRODY: ( angry now ) Michael! Come inside!
ELLEN: It's his birthday present, and you closed the beach, Honey. I told him not to go in the water after what happened yesterday. I don't believe he'll ever do it again.
BRODY: I told him not to go out until he memorized the handbook and the safety safety regulations, until he was sure of himself.
ELLEN: You heard your father! Out right
DENHERDER: You wanna call it a night after here?
CHARLIE: It's only two-thirty. What, are you Yeah, Charlie, I got my second wind three nibbles back.
DENHERDER: Yeah, Charlie, I got my second wind three nibbles back.
DENHERDER: ( reaching into the bag ) Leg of lamb this time?
CHARLIE: Screw lamb let's shoot the sirloin!
DENHERDER: ( a hyena laugh ) We're blowin' half the bounty on
DENHERDER: One more after this, then I'm going
CHARLIE: Denherder tugs the chain against the piling to prove that it is. Charlie heaves the bait. Splash! The inner tube follows and both men eagerly watch as it floats seaward, the chain playing out from the wheelbarrow.
CHARLIE: Tide's taking it right out.
DENHERDER: You do this all the time, right, Twenty years.
CHARLIE: Twenty years.
DENHERDER: I can't believe that people pay money to go fishing. This is really dumb. This isn't even relaxing. it's just boring.
DENHERDER: Hey! What's this?
CHARLIE: Look at him take it!
DENHERDER: Do I set the goddam hook?
CHARLIE: Let him do it! Go-go-go-go-go!
DENHERDER: CHARLIE! JUMP!
CHARLIE! JUMP!: Charlie rolls into the water, sputters, turns to watch the flotilla of wood draw away.
CHARLIE: Holy Jesus Christ!
DENHERDER: Get the hell out! Charlie! Swim!
HENDRICKS: .So then Denherder and Charlie sat there trying to catch their breath, and figuring out how to explain to Charlie's wife what happened to her freezer full of meat.
BRODY: That wasn't funny.
HENDRICKS: Mrs. Kintner must've put her ad in Field and Stream.
BRODY: Looks more like the readers of the National Enquirer.
BRODY: Hey! You know how many men that's supposed to hold?
BRODY: What you got ain't safe. You take some guys off or you don't go out.
HOOPER: Hello, back.
GARDNER: Hello, back.
BRODY: You going out too, Ben?
GARDNER: Might give it a try. That three thousand bounty beats working for a We ready?
BRODY: Just back up! No, the other way! Cut it to your left! Your other left! The big boat, your front end is out way too far. Little boat, stay still! Dammit, a vessel under sail has the right of way!
HOOPER: ( stepping in to help ) Ahoy, sail! You got an oar? Well, scull it out!
SAILBOAT SKIPPER: Tell that stinkpotter to belay!
MOTORBOAT SKIPPER: Tell that ragsetter I'm going to poke him in the snoot!
HOOPER: Just cast off in turn and make for the channel, OK?
BRODY: Brody starts back towards the shore, Hooper is by his side.
HOOPER: Excuse me, I wonder if you could tell me.
HOOPER: ( noticing something ) Is that dynamite?
BRODY: If that's dynamite, give it here, or don't leave port.
MAN: Aw, c'mon, it's just fireworks. Sharks like fireworks, it attracts them.
BRODY: Hand it over.
HOOPER: There's a fantail launch out there that won't make it beyond the You're tellin' me. I swear, this town has gone crazy.
BRODY: You're tellin' me. I swear, this town has gone crazy.
HOOPER: Officer, I wonder if you could tell me where I could find Chief Brody?
BRODY: Who are you?
HOOPER: Hooper, Matt Hooper. From the Oceanographic Institute.
PRATT: Well, get over there! He ain't caught it yet!
HARRY'S BOAT: Everyone wants to get into the act. They are attacking the threshing beast with all they've got. Pratt uses his automatic, another blasts point blank with a shotgun. There are occasional water ricochets and the bounty hunters duck from time to time as bullets skip by. Finally, the shark stops threshing.
PRATT: ( exultant ) Hand me that pole! Quick!
HARRY: Beat it! I hooked him!
PRATT: How's the family, Harry? Go on and do it!
HARRY: ( a tug-of-war ) Let go my shark!
BRODY: Let's show Mr. Hooper our accident.
HOOPER: Victim One, identified as Christine Watkins, female Caucasian.
HOOPER: .height and weight may only be estimated from partial remains. Torso severed in mid-thorax, eviscerated with no major organs remaining. May I have a drink of water? Right arm severed above the elbow with massive tissue loss from upper musculature. Portions of denuded bone remaining. did you notify the coast guard?
BRODY: No, it was local jurisdiction.
HOOPER: Left arm, head, shoulders, sternum and portions of ribcage intact. Please don't smoke. With minor post- mortem lacerations and abrasions. Bite marks indicate typical non-frenzy feeding pattern of large squali, possibly carchaninus lonimanus, or isurus glaucas. Gross tissue loss and post-mortem erosion of bite surfaces prevent detailed analysis; however, teeth and jaws of the attacking squali must be considered above average for these waters. Did you go out in a boat and look No, we just checked the beach.
BRODY: No, we just checked the beach.
HOOPER: ( turns off the recorder ) It wasn't an 'accident,' it wasn't a boat propeller, or a coral reef, or Jack the Ripper. It was a shark. It was a shark.
MEADOWS: Ginny, get this out on the state wire to AP and UPI in Boston and New York. Have one of them pick it up for the national and call Dave Axelrod in New York and tell him this is from me and he owes me one. let's get a picture.
HOOPER: Well, if one man can catch a fish in 50 days, then I guess 50 of these bozos can catch a fish in one day beginner's luck.
BRODY: ( crossing to men around shark ) You did it! Did Ben Gardner catch
MEADOWS: Okay, everybody, I want to get a picture for the paper could everyone clear out of the way?
MEADOWS: Could you get out of the shot, young Who, me? Okay.
HOOPER: Who, me? Okay.
BRODY: Larry, if you'd see these clowns leave, you'd never believe they'd come back with anything. But they got him!
VAUGHN: That's good. That's real good. Ben Meadows getting pictures for the Sure he is.
BRODY: Sure he is.
VAUGHN: Who's that young man?
BRODY: Matt Hooper, the specialist they send down from the Oceanographic I think we all owe a debt of gratitude to these men for catching this
VAUGHN: ( speaking to everyone ) I think we all owe a debt of gratitude to these men for catching this
PRATT: Whadya mean, 'Bite Radius?' What's Teeth are teeth, right?
GAFFER: Teeth are teeth, right?
HOOPER: I didn't say this wasn't the shark, I just said I wasn't sure this was the one.
BRODY: What d'ya mean?
HOOPER: There are hundreds of different kinds of sharks; makos, blues, hammerheads, white-tips. any one of them could've attacked. Look shark digestion is slow. We could open this one up, and find whatever he's been eating is still inside.
VAUGHN: That's disgusting! This is the largest, meanest, most vicious shark ever landed off Amity Island, and a known maneater!
HOOPER: Let's just cut him open and see what's Why not, Larry? We could get a positive confirmation that way.
BRODY: Why not, Larry? We could get a positive confirmation that way.
VAUGHN: Be reasonable, boys this isn't the time or the place to do some kind of half-assed autopsy on a fish. do you have all the pictures you Wait a minute.
MEADOWS: Wait a minute.
HOOPER: Wait a minute.
VAUGHN: ( seeing something offstage, with low intensity ) I am not going to stand here and watch this fish cut open and see some kid fall out on the dock. ( he indicates off )
VAUGHN: ( to Brody ) Chief, I'll take responsibility for this. Boys, cut this ugly sonofabitch down before he stinks up the whole island. Harve, tomorrow you and Carl take him out and dump him right in the drink.
MRS. KINTNER: Chief Brody?
MRS. KINTNER: My Alex was a beautiful little boy and you killed him. Did you know that? You knew there was a shark out there. You knew a girl got killed here last week. I just found that out. But you knew. You knew it was dangerous, but you let people go swimming anyway. You knew all those things, and still my boy is dead now and there's nothing you can do about that. My boy is dead. I wanted you to know that.
VAUGHN: I'm sorry, Martin. She's in a sick, terrible state.
HOOPER: Look, maybe this is the wrong time to pursue this, but I'm not sure.
BRODY: ( almost to himself ) She's right.
VAUGHN: Let's all get out of here, this place I'm going home.
BRODY: I'm going home.
BRODY: C'mere and give Daddy a kiss.
SEAN: Because he needs it.
BRODY: Because he needs it.
HOOPER: Hi. I'm Matt Hooper. If your husband is here, I'd like to talk to him.
ELLEN: So would I. Come on in.
ELLEN: Would you like something? Some coffee?
HOOPER: ( seeing Brody's plate ) Is anyone having this.? ( to Brody ) How was your day.?
HOOPER: ( to Brody ) How was your day.?
BRODY: They exchange a long look that evolves into a slightly desperate, but shared laughter.
HOOPER: ( producing wine ) Here. one red, one white.
HOOPER: ( boning his fish ) Ummm. Really good.
ELLEN: My husband tells me you're in sharks.
HOOPER: I wouldn't put it that way. But I love sharks.
ELLEN: You love sharks?
HOOPER: I do. But you've still got a problem here, there's a shark just off the island How come you have to tell them that?
BRODY: How come you have to tell them that?
ELLEN: Excuse me, but what are you talking about? Didn't they catch the shark this afternoon? It was on the Cape station news.
HOOPER: They caught a shark, not the shark. Big difference. I could've proved it this afternoon, by cutting that one open and examining his stomach contents. Also, his bite was too
HOOPER: I was lucky to find that in town it's an estate bottled vintage year.
HOOPER: ( as Brody pours ) We ought to let it breathe. Let's all have a drink.
BRODY: Let's all have a drink.
BRODY: You too, sweetheart.
ELLEN: Thank you.
HOOPER: ( toasting ) Here's to your husband, the only other rational man on the island. Day after tomorrow, I'll be gone, and he'll be the only one.
ELLEN: You're leaving?
HOOPER: Going out on the 'Aurora.'
ELLEN: Is that a boat?
HOOPER: Is it! The best-funded research expedition to ever study the shark. around the world in 18 months.
ELLEN: Like those Cousteau specials on television? I think it's for the kids, but I love them.
HOOPER: Better than Cousteau, or Compagno with computers, telemetry, Defense Department funding.
ELLEN: I saw a show with sea otters, and a big turtle. Mikey loved it. Made me promise to get him one. Will you live on the boat?
HOOPER: Martin hates boats. Hates the water. On the ferry to the mainland, he sits in the car the whole way over. He's got this childhood thing, there's a clinical word for it.
ELLEN: Martin hates boats. Hates the water. On the ferry to the mainland, he sits in the car the whole way over. He's got this childhood thing, there's a clinical word for it.
BRODY: Drowning. Lemme ask you something. Is it true most attacks take place in three feet of water, around 10 feet from the beach?
HOOPER: Yeah. Like the kid on your beach. I wish I could've examined that shark they caught.
BRODY: Something else. Do most attacks go About half of them. A lot of 'missing swimmers' are really shark victims.
HOOPER: About half of them. A lot of 'missing swimmers' are really shark victims.
BRODY: There's a kind of a lone shark, called, uh.
HOOPER: Yeah. Rogue. Picks out an area where there's food and hangs out there as long as the food supply lasts?
BRODY: Yeah. Rogue. Picks out an area where there's food and hangs out there as long as the food supply lasts?
HOOPER: It's called Territoriality. It's a And before 1900, when people first starting swimming for recreation, before public bathing and resorts, there were very few shark attacks, cause sharks didn't know what they were missing?
BRODY: And before 1900, when people first starting swimming for recreation, before public bathing and resorts, there were very few shark attacks, cause sharks didn't know what they were missing?
HOOPER: You could say that.
BRODY: Why don't we have one more drink, you and I, and then we go down and cut open that old shark and see for sure what's inside him, or not.
ELLEN: Can you do that?
BRODY: I am Chief of Police. I can do anything I want. You want to come?
HOOPER: I'm flattered you should ask.
HOOPER: .And it was Dartmouth Winter weekend, and she was Homecoming Queen, and I was her date; then she got into the fact that her family had more money than my family, and she was right her great-grandfather was in mining, and my ancestors were Yankee shipbuilders. So we broke up and I went home with some beatnik from Sarah Lawrence.
BRODY: What stinks so bad?
HOOPER: Our friend, the shark.
HOOPER: We always had a summer place on the water Newport, the Vineyard, so I figured I'd major in something I knew about. Oceanography, marine biology. It was that, or design racing yachts like my older brother. Hmmm. He we go. Up the old alimentary canal. Hold the light.
HOOPER: We open the abdominal cavity and check the digestive tract. Simple.
BRODY: What's that?
HOOPER: Half a flounder. Hmmm. a burlap bag. a paint can. aha!
BRODY: What? What?!
HOOPER: Just as I thought. He drifted up here with the Gulf Stream, from southern waters.
BRODY: How can you tell?
HOOPER: ( showing it ) Florida license plate.
BRODY: He ate a car?
HOOPER: ( laughs ) No, but Tiger sharks are the garbage cans of the ocean. They eat anything. But this one didn't eat any people. There's nothing here.
HOOPER: What do we do?
BRODY: What do we do?
HOOPER: If you're looking for a shark, you don't look on land. You go out and chum for him.
BRODY: Only one sure way to find him offer him a little something to eat. Chum blood, waste meat, fish, anything. They can sense it miles away. If he's out there, we might be able to get a closer look at him. It's a good time, too. They're night
HOOPER: Only one sure way to find him offer him a little something to eat. Chum blood, waste meat, fish, anything. They can sense it miles away. If he's out there, we might be able to get a closer look at him. It's a good time, too. They're night
HOOPER: ( indicating distant flashing beacon ) That's the Cape Light we're on the stretch where he's feeding, if he's still here.
BRODY: What is all this stuff?
HOOPER: ( ticking them off ) Depth-finder, fathometer, sonar, closed-circuit TV fore and aft RDF, single side band. ( points to themselves ) And two loose nuts behind the wheel.
BRODY: Can you tell from that if a big man- eater is around?
HOOPER: ( indicates display ) Look here something big, probably a school of mackerel clumped together. And staying right with us.
BRODY: Where'd you get all this?
HOOPER: I Bought it. Both sets of grandparents set up trust funds for me; stocks went up, so I don't have to touch my principal.
BRODY: You're at the Institute full time? Or do you have a job?
HOOPER: ( a nerve has been touched ) It is a job. I'm not fooling around like some amateur. It's my life!
BRODY: We gotta get back soon.
BRODY: Hooper looks up and cuts the wheel hard, as the same time dropping the engines into neutral, and then reverse. The sudden change throws Brody to his knees.
BRODY: What the hell?
BRODY: That's Ben Gardner's boat! It's the Flicka! Ben? Ben!
HOOPER'S BOAT: Something he has seen moves Hooper.
BRODY: What happened?
HOOPER: I want to check something. Hold my
BRODY: Don't they have lifejackets or something? An extra boat?
HOOPER: ( surfacing ) They must've hit something.
HOOPER: He didn't have a dinghy aboard. I'm going down to take a look at his Why don't we just tow it in?
BRODY: Why don't we just tow it in?
HOOPER: ( hyperventilating ) We will. There's something I've got to find out.
BRODY: Be careful, for chrissake.
BRODY: You all right?
HOOPER: A White! A Great White, I found a tooth buried in the hull. He must've attacked. I knew it. Gardner's dead in there. I didn't see the No shark did that to a boat!
BRODY: No shark did that to a boat!
HOOPER: Jesus Christ! A Great White! Who'd believe it! We're not talking about a shark, we're talking about a Shark! There is a kind of shark called a Great White Shark that every expert in the world agrees is a maneater.
BRODY: There is a kind of shark called a Great White Shark that every expert in the world agrees is a maneater.
HOOPER: You're situation here suggests that a Great White has staked out a claim in the waters around Amity Island, and that he will continue to feed here as long as there is food in the There's no limits to where he can strike, and we've had three attacks and two deaths in the past few days. It happened like this before, in 1916, when a Great White killed five swimmers at Jones Beach, in Long A shark's attack is stimulated by the kind of splashing and activity that occurs whenever humans go swimming you can't avoid it!
BRODY: There's no limits to where he can strike, and we've had three attacks and two deaths in the past few days. It happened like this before, in 1916, when a Great White killed five swimmers at Jones Beach, in Long A shark's attack is stimulated by the kind of splashing and activity that occurs whenever humans go swimming you can't avoid it!
HOOPER: A shark's attack is stimulated by the kind of splashing and activity that occurs whenever humans go swimming you can't avoid it!
BRODY: A 4th of July beach is like ringing a dinner bell, for Chrissake!
HOOPER: I just pulled a shark tooth the size of a shot glass out of the hull of a wrecked boat out there.
BRODY: We towed Ben Gardner's boat in, Larry; he was dead and his boat was all chewed up.
VAUGHN: Is that tooth here? Did anyone see I don't have it.
HOOPER: I don't have it.
BRODY: He lost it on the way up.
VAUGHN: What kind of a shark did you say it Carcaradon carcharias. A Great White.
HOOPER: Carcaradon carcharias. A Great White.
VAUGHN: Well, I'm not going to commit economic suicide on that flimsy evidence. We depend on the summer people for our lives, and if our beaches are closed, then we're all finished.
BRODY: We have got to close the beaches. We have got to get someone to kill the shark, we need non-corrosive mesh netting, we need scientific support. It's gonna cost money just to keep the nuts out and save what we have.
VAUGHN: I don't thing either of you is familiar with our problems.
HOOPER: I'm familiar with the fact that you are going to ignore this thing until it swims up and bites you on the ass! There are only two ways to solve this thing: you can kill it, or you can cut off its food supply.
BRODY: That means closing the beaches.
VAUGHN: Come here, I want to show you
VAUGHN: Sick vandalism! Brody, that's a deliberate mutilation of a public service message! I want those little paint-happy bastards caught and hung up by their baby Buster Browns!
HOOPER: ( who has followed them around ) That's it! I'm standing here arguing with a guy who can't wait to be a hot lunch. Goodbye.
BRODY: Wait a minute! I need you.
HOOPER: Out there is a Perfect Engine, an Eating Machine that is a miracle of evolution it swims and eats and that's all. Look at that! Those proportions are correct. I know sharks.
VAUGHN: You'd love to prove that. Getting your name in the National Geographic.
BRODY: Larry, we can re-open the beaches in August! Tomorrow is the 4th of July, and we are going to open for business. It's going to be our best summer in years. If you're so concerned about the beaches, you two, you do whatever you have to to keep them safe, but with you or without you, the beaches stay open this weekend.
VAUGHN: August! Tomorrow is the 4th of July, and we are going to open for business. It's going to be our best summer in years. If you're so concerned about the beaches, you two, you do whatever you have to to keep them safe, but with you or without you, the beaches stay open this weekend.
OFFICER: Martin Brody? I'll need your signature here. here. and here.
BRODY: What is this?
OFFICER: Authorization for direct payment of flight expenses not directly connected to a normal mission of this command. You pay for the gas. I signed on the wrong line.
BRODY: I signed on the wrong line.
OFFICER: Just erase your signature and initial your erasure.
BRODY: I want to thank you guys from local agencies for cooperating, and I hope we won't actually be needing your services. But I'm glad to have you
ENSIGN: I want to get our lines and repellent out, so we better shove off.
BRODY: ( a last caution ) We're all on one channel, so let's keep radio traffic to a minimum,
HOOPER: I hope we get some more help.
BRODY: I wish it would rain.
AT SEA: Hooper is methodically patrolling in his boat. Tactically flanking a three-hundred-yard apron of black repellent are four small watch-boats. A tiny pleasure boat darts around the repellent line. Farther out, crossing back and forth, are patrol boats. To top it all off, a Coast Guard helicopter hovers and patrols three hundred feet above.
TV DIRECTOR: Put 1 on the line. In five. 4. 3. 2. 1. Roll.
ANNOUNCER: .and with me is the Mayor of Amity, Lawrence Vaughn. Mr. Vaughn, how about those rumors?
VAUGHN: How about them indeed. I'm pleased and happy to repeat the news that we have, in fact, caught and killed a large predator that supposedly injured some bathers here. As you can see, it's a beautiful day, the beaches are open, and the folks here are having a wonderful time. Amity, y'know, means 'Friendship.'
ANNOUNCER: Also here today is a Marine Biologist and Research Fellow from the Oceanographic Institute, Matthew Hooper. Mr. Hooper, what've you heard?
HOOPER: What I've heard and what I've seen are two different things. I believe there is a large Great White Shark Carcharodon Cacharias - in the waters off this very beach, that he has killed and that he will kill again.
ANNOUNCER: ( moving into center frame ) And there you have it two different opinions, by men of good will. The holiday crowd here at Amity seems to be making up its own mind.
BRODY: I'm sorry, I just don't have the Recue the machines. 2, pan off the Chief and show me some tits and ass. 1, get me some cute kids. 3. see if you got a shot at the water.
TV DIRECTOR: Recue the machines. 2, pan off the Chief and show me some tits and ass. 1, get me some cute kids. 3. see if you got a shot at the water.
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ( holds up stopwatch ) Mayor, 43 seconds, Biologist 45 seconds. That's equal time, right?
DIRECTOR: ( he presses "Talkback" button to his announcer ) Jerry, come on in and look at this. ( to his headset ) Roll 2. In five, 4. 3. 2. 1.
DIRECTOR: Close enough for remote.
DIRECTOR: Think we ought to stick around?
ANNOUNCER: What else you got?
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: Teachers' strike downtown.
DIRECTOR: That's five minutes, guys. Coffee.
VAUGHN: Why don't you get in the water?
SELECTMAN: I don't want to wash off my suntan lotion. I'll get a burn.
VAUGHN: ( some urgency ) Nobody's going in!
WOMAN: Is there nobody going in? What a shame. Arthur, should I be going in?
ARTHUR: ( as he enters the waves ) It's very nice. Not too cold. Quite refreshing. Very pleasant..
ARTHUR: No sharks, m'lady.
WOMAN: This is marvelous! Arthur, I want to come back to this very spot. Will you make a note of where we are?
BOAT #7: Hendricks is on the radio while a Coast Guard spotter works the sonar.
HENDRICKS: Anything? Thought I saw a shadow.
UNDERWATER: As before, 400 pairs of enticing, yummy swimmers' legs, kicking like animated hors d'oeuvres.
COPTER SPOTTER: Nothing from up here, Daisy. Over.
HENDRICKS: ( into walkie-talkie ) False alarm. Must be this glare.
VOICES: Who's scared to go in! I was in! Up to your knees, yeah So come with me I'll go again.
MEADOWS: Beautiful day, Chief!
BRODY: Hey Mikey !
BRODY: You're not going to the ocean with that, are you son?
MICHAEL: I'm all checked out for light surf and look at it.
BRODY: Do me this favor just once. Use the Dad, the ponds are for old ladies.
MICHAEL: Dad, the ponds are for old ladies.
BRODY: Just a favor for your old man.
MICHAEL: ( confused ) Sure, Dad.
COPTER SPOTTER: Copter to Daisy! Red Four, Red Four!
HENDRICKS: ( into walkie-talkie ) Where ?
COPTER SPOTTER: Went under your There!
SONAR OPERATOR: Jesus Christ Shark!
BRODY: Everybody out! Out of the water, please leave the water, please
BRODY: No whistles! No whistles!
THE BEACH: Dozens of bathers halfway out of the water, turn to see. More whistles, and they start toward shore. We hear panicky voices ad-libbing; "Shark," "Look Out," etc. The loudhailers sounding more urgent now, and a contagious dread seizes one person after another. Entire groups of people begin pulling toward shore, some of them obviously trying to control a growing hysteria in others.
HOOPER'S BOAT: Caught on the other end of the line, he is wheeling in a broad, hot-dogger's circle turn, headed back.
TV DIRECTOR: Why did we wrap? Get that! Somebody get that!
AERIAL VIEW: The circle of boats around the little pranksters, the crowds huddled on the beach, Hooper's boat suddenly arrowing towards the estuary, leaving a huge boiling wake.
THE VICTIM: ( passing a horrified Michael, who half extends one hand, as if to help ) It's no good. I'm dead. ( and he is )
HOOPER: Block the estuary! The estuary!
BRODY: ( feeling his face ) He's in shock. Get blankets!
NURSE: The doctor said it's okay mild shock. He can come home in the Hey, big guy you want anything from home?
ELLEN: ( to Michael ) Hey, big guy you want anything from home?
MICHAEL: My cars. And a comic book.
BRODY: ( sees Vaughn ) ( gives baby to Ellen ) Take him home.
ELLEN: Home. New York?
BRODY: No. Home here.
BRODY: ( crossing to Vaughn ) Got a pen on you?
VAUGHN: There's only one thing you're good for anymore signing a damn voucher. Here. It's an authorization to employ a contractor.
BRODY: There's only one thing you're good for anymore signing a damn voucher. Here. It's an authorization to employ a contractor.
VAUGHN: I don't know if I can do that without I'm going to hire Quint to kill the fish. I want to see that shark dead.
BRODY: ( interrupting ) I'm going to hire Quint to kill the fish. I want to see that shark dead.
VAUGHN: Maybe we can save August.
BRODY: Forget it. This summer's had it. Next summer's had it. You're the mayor of Shark City. You wanted to keep the beaches open. What happens when the town finds out about that?
VAUGHN: I was acting in the town's best The best interest in this town would be to see that fish belly-up in the water with a hole in his head. You do the right thing. You authorize Right there. Whatever it costs.
BRODY: The best interest in this town would be to see that fish belly-up in the water with a hole in his head. You do the right thing. You authorize Right there. Whatever it costs.
VAUGHN: My kids were on that beach.
BRODY: Just sign it, Larry.
BRODY: This has got to be one big This is quite a place.
HOOPER: ( handling some gear ) This is quite a place.
QUINT'S VOICE: Keep your hands off my stuff.
QUINT: Did you bring a check?
BRODY: Cash? Or do we do this on a handshake and a promise?
QUINT: Cash? Or do we do this on a handshake and a promise?
BRODY: I'm authorized by the township of Amity to hire you as an independent contractor. We'll meet your price.
QUINT: And my regular daily rate $200, whether we catch him or not.
BRODY: You got it.
QUINT: And incidental damages, if any.
BRODY: You got it.
QUINT: And you get the Mayor off my back with this zoning crap. Nobody tells me how to run my property.
BRODY: You got it.
QUINT: And, uh, a case of apricot brandy and you buy the lunch.
BRODY: Two cases. And dinner when you land.
QUINT: ( pours drink ) Try some of this. I made it myself.
QUINT: Here's to swimmin' with bowlegged
HERSCHEL: Mr. Quint.
HERSCHEL: I'm not goin'. No sir.
QUINT: You want to get paid, you go.
HERSCHEL: Forget the money. You can't pay me enough. I ain't crazy. I worked some big mean fish with you, but I ain't goin' on this one.
QUINT: This is the last time I hear from you. I don't want anyone with piss for blood on my vessel. Put that blackfish on board, pump the bilges, and top off the fuel tanks, and finish up in the morning. Then you're on the beach.
HOOPER: You're going to need an extra hand. This is Matt Hooper.
BRODY: This is Matt Hooper.
QUINT: I know who he is.
BRODY: He's from the Oceanographic Institute.
HOOPER: I've been to sea since I was 12. I've crewed three Trans-pacs
QUINT: and an America's Cup Trials.
HOOPER: and an America's Cup Trials.
QUINT: I'm not talking about day sailing or pleasure boating. I'm talking about working for a living. Sharking.
HOOPER: And I'm not talking about hooking some poor dogfish or sand shark. I'm talking about a Great White.
QUINT: Are you now. I know about porkers in the water Here. Tie me a sheepshank.
HOOPER: I don't need to pass basic seamanship.
QUINT: Let me see your hands.
QUINT: Ha. City hands. You been counting money. If you had a $5000 net and $2000 worth of fish in it, and along comes Mr. White, and makes it look like a kiddy scissors class has gone to work on it and made paper dolls. If you'd ever worked for a living, you'd know what that means.
HOOPER: Look, I don't need to hear any of this working class hero crap. Some party boat skipper who's killed a few sharks.
BRODY: ( interrupting ) Hey. Knock it off. I don't want to have to listen to this while we're out there.
QUINT: What do you mean 'We.?'
BRODY: It's my charter. My party.
QUINT: All right, Commissioner. But when we're on my ship, I am Master, Mate and Pilot. And I want him. .along for ballast.
BRODY: You got it.
QUINT: 5 lengths of 1/2-inch, 20 number 14's, straight gaff, flying gaffs, tail rope, eye splice, M-1, 20 clips, pliers, irons.
HOOPER: Powerhead, CO2 darts, hypo, regulator, tanks, depth gauge, camera, extra magazines, cage.
ASSISTANT: You got everything you asked for?
HOOPER: All of it. And thank Dr. Miro for me. And tell Borack I'll catch up with them in New Zealand.
ASSISTANT: This is actually a killing expedition?
HOOPER: An eye for an eye, you know.
QUINT: Hey, Squirt! You want to stow this gear or you want me to use it for ballast? It ain't good for much but I'll see ya. Tell Dorothy hello.
HOOPER: ( to Assistant ) I'll see ya. Tell Dorothy hello.
QUINT: Hello, Junior. What are you? Some kind of half-assed astronaut? Jesus Christ, when I was a kid, every little squirt wanted to be a harpooner or a sword fisherman. What d'ya have there a portable shower?
HOOPER: Anti-Shark cage.
QUINT: Who's inside, you or the shark?
QUINT: You're in the cage? The cage is in the water? The shark is in the water too? You're in the water with the shark.
HOOPER: Comin' aboard.
ELLEN: Did you take your dramamine?
QUINT: Hurry up, Chief, daylight's a wastin'.
ELLEN: Is that him?
BRODY: ( to Ellen ) Colorful, isn't he?
ELLEN: You going to be all right?
BRODY: Nothing to worry about I'll survive I'll see you back soon. There's an extra pair of glasses in your black socks, and there's some suntan lotion and blistex in your kit.
ELLEN: I'll see you back soon. There's an extra pair of glasses in your black socks, and there's some suntan lotion and blistex in your kit.
BRODY: Yo-ho-ho and a bottle of rum.
ELLEN: ( hugging him ) What'll I tell the kids?
BRODY: Tell 'em I went fishin'!
QUINT: Cast off the bow line! Now your stern!
QUINT: ( to Brody ) Front-Bow, Back-Stern, Port, Starboard. Aloft, Below. It's not a staircase, it's a ladder, it's not a rope, it's a line, and if you don't get it right. ( indicates porthole ) I'll throw your ass through that little round window.
QUINT: Now hear this. You're aboard the fishing vessel 'Orca,' and I'm her Captain, Master, Mate, and Owner. You'll jump when I holler. We're doin' a job here, and Christ, I ain't got time to watch you birds get hooks in your ass and fall overboard. Ship with me, and you'll do all right. Cross me, and I'll slap you upside your heads. Now if you boys are ready let's go fishin'.
QUINT: Here's something for you.
QUINT: These greedy sons-a-bitches will eat their own guts.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Fins closing in on the wounded shark.
QUINT: Go ahead, you cannibals. Tell 'em where you got it!
SHARK FRENZY: A boil of water and the flash of fins and teeth as the local sharks erupt in a feeding frenzy, jaws snapping, blood spewing, a sudden display of the fury and blind predatory drive of the fearsome species.
HOOPER: What's that supposed to prove?
QUINT: Just a little appetizer. I want our porker to know we're serving. I want to put some iron into that big yap.
QUINT: Keep that chum line going we've got five good miles. Don't break it.
BRODY: Who's driving the boat?
QUINT: Nobody. We're drifting with the Nothing. Nothing, nothing, nothing.
HOOPER: ( using the fish finder ) Nothing. Nothing, nothing, nothing.
QUINT: ( to Hooper ) Hell, in the old days we went out with good charts, good sounding lead, and a damn good compass. Nowadays, these kids are afraid to go out without depth finders, radar, radio, electric toothbrush, every stupid
QUINT: ( to Brody ) Get a fresh barrel.
HOOPER: ( jumping up ) Watch it! Compressed air you screw around with one of those and Boom! Careful, huh?
QUINT: ( mutters ) Real fine stuff but it won't mean a thing to Mr. Whitey, of course. he didn't go to schools in electronics. He was born with what he does best. Eat. He's a swimming appetite. 'Course he might eat this stuff, but then I've seen him eat a rocking chair, ( to Brody ) Next time, ask me.
LATER: The men are in different positions on the boat. Hooper on the flying bridge. Quint in the stern, Brody hanging over the rail, puking. Quint takes a wide red strip of whale meat and a gnarled squid from the garbage pail, and searches for a No. 2 hook rig. He holds up a strip of whale.
HOOPER: ( eyeing bait ) That's pilot whale, isn't it?
QUINT: It ain't a Big Mac. The expert don't approve. What do you thing? You're closer to the
BRODY: ( croaky ) Why are we way out here, when the shark's back there?
QUINT: ( snapping bait to his leader ) .'cause this is where he lives. You gotta think like they do.
HOOPER: ( to himself ) Easy for you they got a brain the size of a radish.
QUINT: ( to Brody ) Now if he weren't around, we'd of hooked something else by now, wouldn't we? But he scared 'em all away. Big lonesome son of a bitch.
LATER: Quint at ease in his chair, Brody near him, practicing tying knots. The line starts to move, a few feet at a time; both men watch. Then the line whizzes off the reel. Brody jumps up. Hooper springs to the deck. Quint puts his hand on the drag and addresses the situation softly.
QUINT: he'll gulp it down now. You got it?
BRODY: You got it?
QUINT: ( turning with the pull ) Get behind me, dummy! ( shouts to Hooper ) Reverse her and turn he's taking too much line! ( to Brody ) Wet my reel, quick! ( straining, muscles popping ) Starboard, for Chris'sake
QUINT: ( straining, muscles popping ) Starboard, for Chris'sake
QUINT: ( to Hooper ) Hey, you! Farmer! Half-speed there.
HOOPER: ( almost to himself ) Aye, Aye SIR. Stand by to repel boarders. Poop the mainsail. Argh, Jim Boy.
QUINT: ( to Hooper ) ( to himself ) Where the hell is he going?
QUINT: Oh, this ain't foolin' me Sure try it!
QUINT: Makin' believe it's easy now.
QUINT: Gettin' ready to run again no? What's he playin' here? Put the gloves on! Let's see who's gonna tease who now!
HOOPER: Let it go, don't waste your time.
QUINT: ( to Hooper ) Down here, Hooper!
HOOPER: I don't know what it is, but it's not a shark.
QUINT: ( bathed in sweat; hauling, reeling ) Look you may be a big Yahoo in the lab, but out here you're just supercargo, and you'll do as I say, or you can take your gear and backstroke home. Now get down here!
BRODY: The wire's showing!
QUINT: ( to Brody ) Unbuckle me fast! ( to Hooper ) Grab the leader. He ain't normal, this one. they never
HOOPER: It's too wild, too erratic. It's a marlin or a stingray. It's a gamefish.
QUINT: Watch your hands Grab onto this!
QUINT: ( to Hooper ) A marlin, or a stingray. Huh. Don't ever tell me my business again. Get back up on the bridge.
HOOPER: ( stunned ) I'm okay.
QUINT: ( to Brody ) Fasten the pole.
BRODY: What's the point with hooks and Lines?
QUINT: Don't tell me my business! Quarter-mile, that way. Full throttle.
BRODY: ( nursing forehead, gesturing at rod and reel ) How if they're gonna keep on What I do is trick him to the surface, got that? Then I can jab him, ( goes to flybridge, muttering ) Think I'm gonna haul it in as if he's a catfish, like everyone else
QUINT: What I do is trick him to the surface, got that? Then I can jab him, Think I'm gonna haul it in as if he's a catfish, like everyone else
QUINT: ( suddenly, pointing ) Over there!
HOOPER: What do you see?
QUINT: ( still looking ) At least you handle the boat all right. Stop. Here. Cut the engine.
HOOPER: 20 feet, if it's an inch.
QUINT: 25 feet. And three tons of him there.
QUINT: ( quietly, to Brody ) I never saw one that big.
BRODY: What do we do? Get some help? Radio
BRODY: How're we gonna handle this? There's a formula! Girth, about 150 inches, squared, divide by 800 son of a bitch, they are not going to believe this! divide by 2000. three tons! You're right, you old fart! Three
HOOPER: ( very, very high ) There's a formula! Girth, about 150 inches, squared, divide by 800 son of a bitch, they are not going to believe this! divide by 2000. three tons! ( after Quint ) You're right, you old fart! Three ( ad libs ecstasy )
QUINT: Orca here.
QUINT: Put her on.
ELLEN'S VOICE: .push this? Oh. It's working. Hello, This is Quint, Missus.
QUINT: This is Quint, Missus.
ELLEN'S VOICE: I just wanted to know if you were all right. the Coast Guard let me use their radio. Is Chief Brody there?
QUINT: He's busy.
ELLEN'S VOICE: Well. is everything all right?
QUINT: Just fine, Missus. We'll be back soon. Everything's fine. We haven't seen anything yet. Orca out.
HOOPER: ( on deck ) Damn it! I need something in the foreground to give it some scale. Martin! Stand here! No, to your left!
ON DECK: Quint appears with the harpoon gun. He throws one end of the line to Hooper.
QUINT: Here. Rig this to the forward keg up
QUINT: ( to Brody ) Get up there and steer her. Follow my hand, and hold 'er steady. I've got to get a clean shot at that porker's head.
QUINT: Hurry up, rig the line!
QUINT: ( to Brody ) Come to port. Watch my hand. Steady The line, man, the line!
QUINT: The line, man, the line!
QUINT: Get clear, damn you!
HOOPER: Quint fires. The harpoon slams into the shark behind his head, half-way along the back in front of the big dorsal
QUINT: Jesus H. Christ On a Crutch!
QUINT: Now you've done it, you piss-ant. Stop and rig a goddam tinker toy to my gear. Let the bastard fight the keg for a while. He can't stay down with that on.
HOOPER: ( to Quint ) Rig another keg! I'm bringing her
HOOPER: ( to himself ) God damn it! We had him! ( to Quint ) I'm coming about!
BRODY: Why don't we go in? Get another crack at him tomorrow.
QUINT: We got a barrel on him. We can't lose him. We stay out here until we find him.
BRODY: Let's call in we can radio and have a big boat here in an hour.
QUINT: ( grim ) You hired me, remember? It's my $10,000. It's my shark.
QUINT: He's up again.
QUINT: That's not so bad. Look at this: .St. Paddy's Day in Knocko Nolans, in Boston, where some sunovabitch winged me upside the head with a
HOOPER: Look here. Steve Kaplan bit me during recess.
QUINT: Wire burn. Trying to stop a backstay from taking my head off.
HOOPER: ( rolling up a sleeve ) Moray Eel. Bit right through a wet
QUINT: Face and head scars come from amateur amusements in the bar room. This love line here. .that's from some crazy Frenchie come after me with a knife. I caught him with a good right hand right in the snot locker and laid him amongst the sweetpeas.
HOOPER: Ever see one like this?
HOOPER: Bull shark scraped me while I was taking samples.
QUINT: Nothing! A pleasure scar. Look here
QUINT: Slammed with a thresher's tail. Look just like somebody caressed me with a nutmeg grater. I'll drink to your leg.
HOOPER: I'll drink to your leg.
QUINT: And I'll drink to yours.
QUINT: Wait a minute, young fella. Look. Just look. Don't touch.
QUINT: .Mako. Fell out of the tail rope and onto the deck. You don't get bitten by one of those bastards but twice your first and your last.
HOOPER: ( considerably drunker ) I think I can top that, Mister.
HOOPER: Gimme a hand, here. I got something to show you
HOOPER: ( indicating his chest ) There. Right there. Mary Ellen Moffit broke my heart. Let's drink to Mary
QUINT: And here's to the ladies. And here's to their sisters; I'd rather one Miss than a shipload of Misters.
QUINT: ( shows belly ) Look a' that Bayonet Iwo Jima.
BRODY: ( aside ) C'mon. Middle appendix
QUINT: ( aside ) I almost had 'im. ( pointing ) What's that one, there?
BRODY: ( pointing ) What's that one, there?
QUINT: ( changing ) Tattoo. Had it taken off.
HOOPER: Don't tell me 'Death Before Dishonor.' 'Mother.' 'Semper Fi.' Uhhh. 'Don't Tread on Me.' C'mon 'U.S.S Indianapolis.' 1944.
QUINT: 'U.S.S Indianapolis.' 1944.
BRODY: What's that, a ship?
HOOPER: ( incredulous ) You were on the Indianapolis? In '45? Jesus.
QUINT: Yeah. The U.S.S. Indianapolis. June 29th, 1945, three and a half minutes past midnight, two torpedoes from a Japanese submarine slammed into our side. Two or three. We was still under sealed orders after deliverin' the bomb.the Hiroshima bomb.we was goin' back across the Pacific from Tinian to Leyte. Damn near eleven hundred men went over the side. The life boats was lashed down so tight to make the bomb run we couldn't cut a single one adrift. Not one. And there was no rafts. None. That vessel sank in twelve minutes. Yes, that's all she took. We didn't see the first shark till we'd been in the water about an hour. A thirteen-footer near enough. A blue. You measure that by judgin' the dorsal to the tail. What we didn't know. of course the Captain knew.I guess some officers knew. was the bomb mission had been so secret, no distress signals was sent. What the men didn't know was that they wouldn't even list us as overdue for a week. Well, I didn't know that I wasn't an officer just as well perhaps. So some of us were dead already in the water just hangin' limp in our lifejackets. And several already bleedin'. And the three hundred or so laying on the bottom of the ocean. As the light went, the sharks came crusin'. We formed tight groups somewhat like squares in an old battle You know what I mean so that when one come close, the man nearest would yell and shout and pound the water and sometimes it worked and the fish turned away, but other times that shark would seem to look right at a man right into his eyes and in spite of all shoutin' and poundin' you'd hear that terrible high screamin' and the ocean would go red, then churn up as they ripped him. Then we'd reform our little squares. By the first dawn the sharks had taken more than a hundred. Hard for me to count but more than a hundred. I don't know how many sharks. Maybe a thousand. I do know they averaged six men an hour. All kinds blues, makos, tigers. All kinds. In the middle of the second day, some of us started to go crazy from the thirst. One fella cried out he saw a river, another claimed he saw a waterfall, some started to drink the ocean and choked on it, and some left our little groups our little squares and swam off alone lookin' for islands and the sharks always took them right away. It was mainly the young fellas that did that the older ones stayed where they was. That second day my life jacket rubbed me raw and that was more blood in the water. Oh my. On Thursday morning I bumped up against a friend of mine Herbie Robinson from Cleveland a bosun's mate it seemed he was asleep but when I reached over to waken him, he bobbed in the water and I saw his body upend because he'd been bitten in half beneath the waist. Well Chief, so it went on bombers high overhead but nobody noticin' us. Yes suicides, sharks, and all this goin' crazy and dyin' of thirst. Noon the fifth day, Mr. Hooper, a Lockheed Ventura swung around and came in low. Yes. He did that. Yes, that pilot saw us. And early evenin', a big fat PBY come down out of the sky and began the pickup. That was when I was most frightened of all while I was waitin' for my turn. Just two and a half hours short of five days and five nights when they got to me and took me up. Eleven hundred of us went into that ocean three hundred and sixteen got out. Yeah. Nineteen hundred and forty five. June the Anyway, we delivered the bomb.
BRODY: What the hell?
HOOPER: It's a whale out there.
QUINT: ( singing ) Show me the way to go home. I'm tired and I want to go to bed. I had a little drink about an hour ago, and it went right to my head. ( etc. )
QUINT: ( quietly, to Hooper ) Start the engines.
QUINT: He's busting the shaft! Start the The bilge pumps. There
BRODY: The bilge pumps. There
QUINT: The bilge pumps. There
QUINT: Cut the engines!
HOOPER: Rudder bearings?
QUINT: ( to Brody ) Get up forward! Watch for him!
QUINT: Keep your eyes open, Mr. Hooper! Nobody sleeps! Nobody.
QUINT: Nobody sleeps! Nobody.
QUINT: ( sings ) Show me the way to go home. I'm tired and I want to go to bed. ( etc. )
QUINT: More left rudder! More! Left hand down now, Chief.
HOOPER: ( shifting his grip ) Lemme get a better angle on it. Now.
QUINT: He's bent the housing. You can hear
BRODY: The barrel!
QUINT: It's him. He's under the keg. Careful
QUINT: He's under the keg. Careful
QUINT: ( suspicious ) Easy just want to goose him up. The minute he runs, drop it or you'll lose your hands.
QUINT: Here gimme. I don't see what he's been doin'.
BRODY: ( top of his lungs ) Shark! Starboard!
QUINT: ( to Hooper ) Haul in that rope it'll foul us! ( then to Brody on the bridge ) Start the engine!
QUINT: Easy! It'll tear right out!
HOOPER: ( hauling ) The shaft is giving.
BRODY: ( on bridge ) That's it! Radio in for help!
QUINT: Shut up! Just pump her out!
BRODY: ( coming down off the bridge ) Yeah, Captain, as soon as I make a
QUINT: Duty first and pleasure after
QUINT: Excuse me!
BRODY: Some great idea! Now where are we? Some goddamn skipper you are. You're certifiable, y'know that? You're a real treat! Certifiable! Bananas!
HOOPER: Coming right to us!
QUINT: No comin' right at us! Slow ahead, he'll hit us head on Slower! Throttle back -
QUINT: ( raising harpoon ) Hard to port! Try shakin' that out!
QUINT: Try shakin' that out!
BRODY: ( shouting to Quint ) Did you get him in the head?
QUINT: ( to Brody ) No! No! No! ( to Hooper ) Swing around! After him!
QUINT: More gas. go to half! Get me right alongside him
HOOPER: ( shouting down ) We can't rev it up this high
QUINT: Watch it!
QUINT: Atta boy!
QUINT: Take two, they're small!
HOOPER: ( shouting at Brody ) Don't shoot him any more! He's crazy on his own blood already!
BRODY: I can't stand here doing nothing!
QUINT: Order in the court!
QUINT: ( racing over ) Three'll do it! He's havin' trouble with two!
QUINT: Grab yourselves a couple of poles!
QUINT: Get ready! Now snag 'em!
QUINT: Pull in the ropes and tie 'em onto the transom free ride.
QUINT: Get tired! That's the idea! Here's a little reverse for you!
QUINT: Haul in watch the prop! Now! Untie 'em! Quick! He'll tear us to pieces.
QUINT: Now! Untie 'em! Quick! He'll tear us to pieces.
QUINT: Damn head is too far away. He's too
QUINT: ( amazed at the shark's strength ) He can't go so deep. Not with all those on him.
BRODY: What about us?
QUINT: ( mentally assessing the damage ) Have to pump her steady, s'all.
QUINT: ( to Hooper ) Follow him ( to Brody ) You start pumpin' out here.
QUINT: ( incredulously ) No way! He can't!
BRODY: Where'd he go?
QUINT: ( helplessly ) He can't stay down with three barrels on him! Where is he?!
BRODY: Have you ever had one do this?
QUINT: ( and he means this )
QUINT: Follow him!
HOOPER: He's under!
BRODY: ( points wildly ) He's trying to sink us!
BRODY: He's trying to sink us!
QUINT: ( to Hooper ) Dead astern! Zig-zag!
BRODY: He's chasing us! I don't believe it.
QUINT: Full throttle! To port!
HOOPER: ( suddenly giving Quint the wheel ) Hold her.
HOOPER: ( loading ) Keep him there! Keep him!
QUINT: Throttling back!
QUINT: ( very quietly, to Hooper ) What can that gun of yours do?
HOOPER: Power head with 20 ccs of strychnine nitrate. If I can hit him. I can kill him. But I gotta be close. Very close.
BRODY: ( the awful realization ) You gotta go in the water.
HOOPER: ( in command now ) Rig the cable to the roof eyebolts.
HOOPER: Take me up.
HOOPER: Lower away, Chief. Try and keep him off me till I'm
THE SEA: The barrels have come to a stop. Delicately, they change course and meander toward the lowered cage.
SURFACE: The trailing barrels gong and scratch the keel of the Orca above. Brody and Quint leap back.
SURFACE: One of the barrel ropes snakes around the cage rope and pulls HOOPER - DEEP Turning to meet the monster which though held back for a moment by the snarled rope now surges forward.
QUINT: Let go of it!
QUINT: ( a horrible scream ) He's comin' up !
BRODY: He's taken him!
MASTER ANGLE: The shark breaks water right beside the Orca, rising with a great whooshing noise. It rises vertically, towering overhead, blocking out the sun. The pectoral fins seem to reach forward. The shark, in all of its monstrous glory, falls onto the stern of the boat with a shattering crash, narrowly missing Quint and Brody. It drives the stern underwater, the ocean pours in over the transom. The jaws snap from side to side. Brody flounders backwards away from it.
UNDERWATER: The shark's carcass floating down in a cloud of blood and A shadow clouds the waters, and the Orca's mass begins to slip into the frame.
HOOPER: ( notices something
BRODY: ( notices something
O.S. ): You think we can get back with those?
BRODY: What day is this?
HOOPER: Wednesday. No, it's Tuesday, I Think the tide's with us?
BRODY: Think the tide's with us?
HOOPER: Just keep kicking.
BRODY: Y'know, I used to hate the water.
HOOPER: I can't imagine why.
THE END: Writers : Peter Benchley Carl Gottlieb
