CHYRON: A long time ago, in front of a convenience store far, far EXT. QUICK STOP YEARS AGODAY We FADE IN on the block of stores ( Quick Stop/RST ), from sometime ago, In fact, RST isn't RST; it's THE RECORD RACK a 45's store with head shop paraphernalia in the window. A white-trash MOTHER ( maybe seventeen ) wearing a baseball cap comes into frame carrying a chubby BABY. The Baby wears an oversized t-shirt under what looks like a little bathrobe, and messily eats a CHOCOLATE BAR. There are food stamps in the Mother's hands.
MOTHER: Bobby-Boy stay here while mommy picks up the free cheese, 'kay?
MOTHER: This'll keep the sun out of your eyes. You be good now.
MOTHER: Don't fucking move, you little shit- machine. Mommy's gonna try to score.
PASSERBY: Excuse mewho's watching these The fat one's watching the little Oh, nice parenting. Leave'em out here like that and see what happens.
MOTHER: The fat one's watching the little Oh, nice parenting. Leave'em out here like that and see what happens.
PASSERBY: Oh, nice parenting. Leave'em out here like that and see what happens.
MOTHER: FUCK YOU, YOU FUCKING SQUARE! Ah, keep on truckin'.
PASSERBY: ( waving her off ) Ah, keep on truckin'.
MOTHER: ( to baby ) D'jou hear the crazy fuck tellin' me how to fuckin' raise you? Motherfucker, man! Who's he fucking think he is? What's the worse fuckin' thing could happen to you sitting outside the fuckin' stores? Fuck!
BABY: Fuck, fuck, fuck.
THE PRESENT: JAY and SILENT BOB stand where the Babies sat. The Record Rack is now RST VIDEO. Jay is mid-chant.
JAY: ( as a chant ) fuck, fuck, fuck, mother-mother fuck, mother-mother fuck-fuck! Mother- fuck-, mother-fuck, mother-fuck, noinch, noinch, noinch, smoking weed, smoking weed, doing coke, drinking beers! Drinking beers, beers, beers, rolling fatties, smoking blunts! Who smokes the blunts? We smoke the
TEEN 1: Lemme get a nickel bag.
JAY: Fifteen bucks, little man. Put the money in my hand. If the money does not show, then you owe-me-owe-me- My Jungle Love! Yes, Oh-we-oh-we-oh! I think I want to know ya', know ya'
TEEN 1: ( digging in pockets ) What the hell are you singing?
JAY: You don't know "Jungle Love"? That shit is the mad notes. Written by God Herself and handed down to the world's greatest bandthe motherfucking Time.
TEEN 2: The guys in that Prince movie?
TEEN 1: Purple Rain.
TEEN 2: Man, that shit was so gayfucking eighties style.
JAY: Bitch, don't you NEVER say an unkind word about The Time! Me and Silent Bob modeled our whole fucking lives after Morris Day and Jerome! I'm a smooth pimp who loves the pussy, and Tubby here's my black manservant!
RANDAL: What'd I tell you two about dealing in front of the store? Drop the kid and peddle your wares someplace else, And for the record, The Time sucked
JAY: Yo-youse guys wanna hear something fucked up about him and the Quick Stop guy?
RANDAL: Hey, can't we do something about those two stoners hanging around outside all the time?
DANTE: Why? What'd they do now?
RANDAL: I'm trying to watch Clash of the Titans, and all I can hear is the two them screaming about Morris Day at the top of their lungs.
DANTE: I thought the fat one didn't really talk much.
RANDAL: What, am I producing an A about 'em? I'm just saying they shouldn't be loitering around the stores like they do.
DANTE: Neither should you, but we let you See, manif you were funnier than that, ABC never would've canceled
RANDAL: See, manif you were funnier than that, ABC never would've canceled
DANTE: Enter Teen 1 and Teen 2, chuckling.
RANDAL: Enter Teen 1 and Teen 2, chuckling.
TEEN 1: Two packs of Wraps. Yohow was the service?
RANDAL: What service?
TEEN 2: The one at the Unitarian church where you two got married to each other last week.
RANDAL: What the hell are you talking about?
TEEN 1: Jay said you had a Star-Warsthemed wedding and you guys tied the knot dressed like storm troopers.
TEEN 2: Yeah. And he said you're the bitch and you're the butch. Oh, sorrythe Leia and the Luke.
DANTE: I'm the bitch?!
RANDAL: Well if we were gay, that's how I'd see it.
DANTE: Would you shut up?!
TEEN 1: ( to TEEN 2 ) Holy shit, dude. The honeymoon's We're not married to each other.
DANTE: We're not married to each other.
TEEN 1: Well, sure. Not in the eyes of the state or any real church, Skywalker.
RANDAL: ( heading for the phone ) That does it. I'm gonna do something about those two. I shoulda done a long time ago
TEEN 2: In a galaxy far, far away!
TEEN 1: ( exiting ) May the Foreskin be with you. Hand Jabba the Hutt.
RANDAL: ( into phone ) Yeah, I want to report a couple of drug dealers out in front of the Quick Stop.
JAY: What the Fuck, Serpico? What'd we We got a report that two guys were hanging around outside the stores, selling pot?
COP: We got a report that two guys were hanging around outside the stores, selling pot?
JAY: We don't smoke pot, yo.
TEEN 1: Here're the rolling papers you wanted for your pot. And your change. Thanks. And The Time sucks ass!
COP: No pot, hunh? What do you need this What? I got a wiping problem. I stick these little pieces of paper over my brown-eye, and bamno shit stains in my undies. You don't believe me? Lemme show
JAY: What? I got a wiping problem. I stick these little pieces of paper over my brown-eye, and bamno shit stains in my undies. You don't believe me? Lemme show
JAY: Just spread my cheeks a little and you can see the fucking stink nuggets
COP: Pull up your pants up sir, Now! Let's take a ride down to the station.
COP: Let's take a ride down to the station.
JAY: What? It's suddenly a crime to fart, No fucking way!
BRODIE: Dante and Randal slapped you with a restraining order?!
JAY: Judge said if we go within a hundred feet of the stores, we get thrown into County.
BRODIE: So you gonna abide by the court's ruling or you gonna go Bandit Reynolds style?
JAY: Fuck yeah! You know what they make you do in county? Toss the fucking salad! I don't like this fuck's asshole; I'm gonna do it for some I guess if you really wanted to hang out in from of a convenience store, you could just buy your own now what with all that money you guys Hell yeah, bitch. Wait a secondwhat money?
BRODIE: I guess if you really wanted to hang out in from of a convenience store, you could just buy your own now what with all that money you guys Hell yeah, bitch. Wait a secondwhat money?
JAY: Hell yeah, bitch. Wait a secondwhat money?
BRODIE: The money from the movie, dumb-ass.
JAY: What the fuck are you babbling about?
BRODIE: ( pulling a bagged-and- boarded issue down from the wall ) The Bluntman and Chronic movie. ( dawns on him ) Oh my Goddon't tell me you have no idea there's a movie being made of the comic you two were the basis What?! Since when?
JAY: What?! Since when?
BRODIE: Goddamit, man Here's the pulse, alright. And here's your finger far from the pulse, jammed straight up your ass. Saywould you like a chocolate covered pretzel?
BRODIE: You see, kids, if you read Wizard, you'd know it's the top story this month. Check it out. When the fuck did this happen?!
JAY: When the fuck did this happen?!
BRODIE: Well, after X-Men hit at the box office, all the studios started buying up every comic property they could get their hands on. Miramax optioned Bluntman and Chronic.
JAY: Miramax? I thought they only made classy flicks like The Piano and The Crying Game?
BRODIE: Yeah, well once they made She's All That, everything went to hell. So you're saying you haven't gotten a cut of the movie? Didn't Holden McNeil and Banky Edwards used to pay you likeness rights for the comic book?
JAY: We haven't seen a fucking dime for no movie!
BRODIE: Well boys, I'm no lawyer, but I think Holden and Banky owe you some of the proverbial phat cash. I mean they're making a movie based on characters that are based on you and Quiet It ain't me and Quiet Robert. It's a pair of stupid-ass superheroes that run around saying "Snitchy-Nitchies" or something.
JAY: It ain't me and Quiet Robert. It's a pair of stupid-ass superheroes that run around saying "Snitchy-Nitchies" or something.
BRODIE: I believe it "Snootchie Boochies." Regardlessyou're getting screwed. If I was you guys, I'd confront Holden McNeil and ask him for my movie check.
JAY: Shit yeah. We gotsa get paid.
BRODIE: And on that note, we cue the music.
HOLDEN: Well! I have been waiting years to do this. Look at these morose motherfuckers right here. Smells like someone shit in their cereal. Bunngg! What the fuck took you so long answering your damn door? You trying to talk another girlfriend of yours into some of that gay-ass three-way action with your buddy?
JAY: What the fuck took you so long answering your damn door? You trying to talk another girlfriend of yours into some of that gay-ass three-way action with your buddy?
HOLDEN: No, I was just showering your mother's stink off me after I gave her a quick jump and sent her home. But now that you mention it Thanks, you know. You could've made the moral of that story you told me a bit more clear.
HOLDEN: So what brings you two dirt merchants to my neck of the woods?
JAY: Oh, I'll tell you what our necks are doing in your woods
JAY: Where's our motherfucking movie check?
HOLDEN: You heard about that too, Hunh? Well, I've got nothing to do with it. That's Banky's deal. He owns the property now. I signed my half of the Bluntman and Chronic right over to him years Why the fuck would you do a thing like that?
JAY: Why the fuck would you do a thing like that?
HOLDEN: Because I'm almost thirty, for God's sakewhy on earth would I want to keep writing about characters whose central preoccupations are weed and dick and fart jokes? You gotta grow, man. Don't you ever want more for I know this poor, hapless sonovabitch does. I look in his doe eyes and I see a man crying out, "When, Lord? When the fuck can your servant ditch this foul-mouthed little chucklehead to whom I am a constant victim of his folly, and who bombards me and those around us with grade-A foolishness that prevents me from even getting to kiss a girl? Fuck!
JAY: I'm the chucklehead? Fuck youyou're the dumb-ass who gave away his comic, and now you ain't got no fat movie check neither.
HOLDEN: When you're right, you're right. I wish I'd broken off a little piece for myself. Because if the buzz is any indication, the movie's gonna make some huge bank.
JAY: What buzz?
HOLDEN: The Internet buzz.
JAY: What the fuck is the Internet?
HOLDEN: The Internet is a communication device that allows people the world over to bitch about movies and share pornography with one another. Here's what we're looking for: "Movie "PoopChute." Yeaaahhh.
JAY: ( to Bob ) "PoopChute." Yeaaahhh.
HOLDEN: This is a site full of militant movie buffs: sad bastards who live in their parents' basements, downloading scripts and trading what they believe to be inside info about movies and actors they despise yet can't stop discussing. This is where you go if you wanna hear frustrated would-be filmmakers mouth off with their two- bit, arm-chair-director's opinions on how they all could've made a better Episode One.
HOLDEN: Here. This is about the Bluntman "Inside sources tell me Miramax is starting production this Friday on their adaptation of underground comic fave Bluntman and Chronic."
JAY: Friday?! Shit. Does it say who's playing us in the movie?
HOLDEN: No, but if it's Miramax, I'm sure it'll be Ben Affleck and Matt Damon. They put'em in a bunch of movies.
JAY: You knowthe guys from Good Will You mean the fucking movie with Mork from Ork in it?
HOLDEN: You knowthe guys from Good Will You mean the fucking movie with Mork from Ork in it?
JAY: You mean the fucking movie with Mork from Ork in it?
HOLDEN: Yeah, I'm not too big a fan either. Though Affleck was the bomb in Word, bitch. Phantoms like a
JAY: Word, bitch. Phantoms like a
HOLDEN: Now down here is where you can gauge the buzz. This is the Shoot Back area. It's where people who read the news get to chime in with their two cents. Here's what a guy who goes by the chick-magnet Net handle of "Wampa- One" thinks about Bluntman and "Bluntman and Chronic and their stupid alter egos Jay and Silent Bob only work in small doses, if at all. They don't deserve their own movie." He's got a point.
JAY: Fuck him. What's the next one say?
HOLDEN: ( reading ) "Bluntman and Chronic is the worst comic I ever read. Jay and Silent Bob are stupid characters. A couple of stoners who spout dumb-ass catchphrases like a third-rate Cheech and Chong or Bill and Ted. Fuck Jay and Silent Bob. Fuck them up their stupid asses."
JAY: Who the fuck said that shit?!
HOLDEN: A guy who calls himself "Magnolia- Fan." Check out what the guy after him said: "Jay and Silent Bob are terrible, one-note jokes that only stoners laugh at. They're fucking clown shoes. If they were real, I'd beat the shit out of them for being so stupid. I can't believe Miramax would have anything to so with this shit. I, for one, will be boycotting this movie. Who's with me?" And then there are about fifty more posts from people who agree to join Spartacus-here's boycott of the flick.
JAY: ( grimly ) I'm gonna kill all these fucks
HOLDEN: Ah, let it go. Number one, they're a bunch of jealous little dicks who use the anonymity of the Net to insult people who're doing what they wish they were doing, and number two, they're not really talking about you guysthey talking about Bluntman and Chronic.
JAY: But they said Jay and Silent Bob! They used our real names. It doesn't matter that there's a comic book version of us and a real version, 'cause nobody knows we're real in real life.
HOLDEN: Yeah! And all these people who read that shit think the real Jay and Silent Bob are a couple of faggots 'cause of that all these dicks are writing about the comic book Jay and Silent Bob! And maybe one night, me and Lunchbox'll be macking some bitch, and she'll be like "Oooo! I want to suck youse guys dicks off. What's your names?" And I'll be like, "Jay and Silent Bob." And she'll be like, "OhI read on the Internet that youse guys were little fucking jerkoffs." And then she goes and sucks two other guys's dicks off instead! Well fuck that! We gotta put a stop to these hateful sonsa- bitches before they ruin our good First off, I don't know how good your names really are. Secondly, there's not much you can do about stopping this bile. The Internet's given everyone in America a voice, and everyone in American has chosen to use that voice to bitch about movies. As long as there's a Bluntman and Chronic movie, the Net-nerds are gonna have something negative to say about it. Jay steams, thinking. Then, a light dawns on him.
JAY: Yeah! And all these people who read that shit think the real Jay and Silent Bob are a couple of faggots 'cause of that all these dicks are writing about the comic book Jay and Silent Bob! And maybe one night, me and Lunchbox'll be macking some bitch, and she'll be like "Oooo! I want to suck youse guys dicks off. What's your names?" And I'll be like, "Jay and Silent Bob." And she'll be like, "OhI read on the Internet that youse guys were little fucking jerkoffs." And then she goes and sucks two other guys's dicks off instead! Well fuck that! We gotta put a stop to these hateful sonsa- bitches before they ruin our good First off, I don't know how good your names really are. Secondly, there's not much you can do about stopping this bile. The Internet's given everyone in America a voice, and everyone in American has chosen to use that voice to bitch about movies. As long as there's a Bluntman and Chronic movie, the Net-nerds are gonna have something negative to say about it. Jay steams, thinking. Then, a light dawns on him.
HOLDEN: First off, I don't know how good your names really are. Secondly, there's not much you can do about stopping this bile. The Internet's given everyone in America a voice, and everyone in American has chosen to use that voice to bitch about movies. As long as there's a Bluntman and Chronic movie, the Net-nerds are gonna have something negative to say about it. Jay steams, thinking. Then, a light dawns on him.
JAY: But wait a secondif there wasn't a Bluntman and Chronic movie, then no one would be saying shit about Jay and Silent Bob, right?
HOLDEN: They're not saying anything about you nowthey're talking about fictional characters!
JAY: ( oblivious to Holden; to Bob ) So all we gotta do is stop 'em from making the movie!
HOLDEN: Yeah, and kiss-off the hundreds of thousands of dollars in royalties you're due in the process. Are you fucking retarded? Look, I'm probably not alone in the opinion that this flick is the worst idea since Greedo shooting first. I mean, a Jay and Silent Bob movie? Who would pay to see that?
HOLDEN: But since it is happening, you might as well just ignore the idiots on the Internet, go find Banky, and get your "motherfucking movie check." As you so succinctly put it. That's what's important here.
JAY: No, Holden McNeilwhat's important here is that there's a bunch of motherfuckers we don't even know calling us assholes on the Internet to a bunch of teenagers and guys who can't even get laid. Putting a stop to that is the most important thing we could ever do. When did it say they're making that They start this Friday.
HOLDEN: They start this Friday.
JAY: So if today's Tuesday, that gives us Eight days.
HOLDEN: It's more like three days.
JAY: Right. Three days to stop that stupid fucking movie from getting made! C'mon, Silent Bob
JAY: We're going to Hollywood.
HOLDEN: Now that's what I call the Blunt leading the Blunt.
JAY: Tickets? Since when did they start charging for the bus?
JAY: Didn't we used to ride that shit to school every day for free?
JAY: We in Hollywood yet?
DRIVER: It's a threeday ride to Los Angeles, sir. We left twenty minutes ago.
JAY: I didn't ask you about Los Angeles. I asked you about Hollywood.
DRIVER: Hollywood's in Los Angeles, sir.
JAY: Don't change the subject! Are we in Hollywood yet or not?
DRIVER: Please sit down, sir.
JAY: Why don't you take your seat Ralph
JAY: I'm fucking bored, man. There ain't shit to so on this bus.
JAY: I already did that. Twice.
JAY: Yo, Gretzkylemme get a turn.
CHILD: Leave me alone, little kid.
JAY: That fuck called me a little kid and gave me the finger! Go kick his ass!
JAY: You're my muscle, ain'tcha?
JAY: So go open a can of whup-ass on that little fuck, and get me his game!
JAY: You're one tough motherfucker, you know that?
PASSENGER: They been in there going on half an hour now! Two of them! Doing God knows what!
DRIVER: This bus isn't moving another inch unless you clear out of there right
DRIVER: DO YOU HEAR ME?! OPEN THIS DOOR!
NOW!!: The door handle turns, the door swings wide, and massive amounts of smoke suddenly billow through the back of the bus. The smoke clears to reveal Jay and Silent Bob squeezed into the bathroom, holding a massive joint.
JAY: UmI think something's burning back The whole fucking world's against us, dude. I swear to God.
JAY: The whole fucking world's against us, dude. I swear to God.
JAY: This sucks balls, man. How come we ain't getting no rides?
VOICE: 'Cause you're doing it all wrong.
GUY: You gotta induce the drivers a little.
JAY: Like how?
GUY: Like this.
JAY: Yeah, but what happens when you get in the car, and you don't make with the head? Don't they kick your ass to the curb?
GUY: Sureif you don't make with the
JAY: Eww! You eat the cock?!?
GUY: Yeah. If it'll get me a few hundred miles across country. I'll take a shot in the mouth.
JAY: Yeah, but we ain't gay.
GUY: Well, neither am I. But have you seen the price of bus tickets lately? ShitI don't wanna cough up two hundred bucks just to get to Chicago.
JAY: Well, I don't wanna cough up some dude's sperm!
GUY: Don't be so suburbanthis is the new millennium. Gay, straightit's all the same now. There're no more
JAY: There's one. On this side of it, we ain't gay.
GUY: All hitchers do this. Why do you think people pick us up? If you get a ride, it's expectedI don't care who the driver is. It's the first rule in the Book.
JAY: What book?
GUY: The unwritten Book of the Road.
GUY: Follow the rules of the Book, and you'll get where you're going in no time. Excuse me.
NUN: You two boys need a ride?
NUN: You both don't have to sit back there. One of you can sit up here with me.
NUN: So where are you boys from?
JAY: New Jersey.
NUN: What brings you to Indiana?
JAY: We're going to Hollywood.
NUN: Hollywood, hunh? That's a long ways Yeahwe're lucky you picked us up.
JAY: Yeahwe're lucky you picked us up.
NUN: Well, do unto others. That's what the Book says.
JAY: ( misinterpreting completely ) Wait a minuteyou follow the Book, I live my life by it.
NUN: I live my life by it.
JAY: Really? You?
NUN: Of course. You know how lonely it gets on the road? Thanks to the Book, I'm never aloneif you know what I I guess. This guy back there explained it to us. But I didn't think you'd be into that.
JAY: I guess. This guy back there explained it to us. But I didn't think you'd be into that.
NUN: Are you kidding? I've dedicated my life to it. Every hour of every day.
JAY: Shityou nuns are alright.
NUN: You live by the Book, too?
JAY: You picked us up, didn't you? I gotta.
NUN: That's good to hear. But it takes deed, not words. It's a lot easier to say you live by the Book than to actually do it. Can you do it?
JAY: You want me to do it right now?
NUN: No time like the present, right?
JAY: ( he suddenly stops ) You hear that? She's not a Catholic. She's a Presbyterian.
JAY: Dudeshe had seventies bush.
JAY: I can't believe this shit. Five hours and not a single ride. Every day, millions of people hitch to Hollywood and stop studios from making movies about 'em. But when you and me try it, it's like we're trapped in a fucking cartoon!
JAY: Zoinks, yo
GUY: And now we can finally solve the mystery of the Hitchhiking Ghouls! Pull off their masks and let's see who they really are!
BOOKISH: I don't think they are masks.
BEAUTY: I don't think they're Hitchhiking Girls either.
BOOKISH: Ghouls, you fucking moron. Not Girls. Though I wish they were hitchhiking girls. Sexy, skimpily clad hitchhiking Let's kick them out. We've got a mystery to solve.
GUY: Let's kick them out. We've got a mystery to solve.
DUDE: The only mystery here is why we take our cues from a dick in a neckerchief!
GUY: Keep it up, Beatnik! I'll feed you to the fucking dog!
BEAUTY: ( covering her ears; shrieking )
JAY: The Gang look to Jay and Bob.
YO!: The Gang look to Jay and Bob.
JAY: Youse guys need to turn those frowns upside down! And we got just the thing for that. We call them Doobie Snax.
GREAT DANE: Ri, Ray rand Rirent Rob Look at his fuckin' lipstick!!! He's got a stoner-boner!!!
JAY: Look at his fuckin' lipstick!!! He's got a stoner-boner!!!
BEAUTY: I think they passed out.
GUY: Great. What do we do with them now?
DUDE: Let's cut out their kidneys to sell on the black market and leave them in a seedy motel bathtub full of Oh God, not again?
BOOKISH: Oh God, not again?
JAY: Holy shit, I had a horrible dream. Yo, I'm hungry. Where can we get some breakfast?
JAY: Yocheck that shit out: the Internet. Let's see if those fucks said something new about us and that stupid
JAY: "Any movie based on Jay and Silent Bob is gonna lick balls, because they both, in fact, lick balls. Namely each other's."
JAY: ( reading further ) "Yesthey are real people. Real stupid people. Signed, Darth Randal." ( to Bob ) Motherfucker! It's time we wrote something back! Type this shit down.
JAY: All you motherfuckers are gonna pay. You are the ones who are the ball- lickers. We're gonna fuck your mothers whole you watch and cry like little bitches. Once we get to Hollywood and find those Miramax fucks who are making the movie, we're gonna make 'em eat our shit, then shit our shit, then eat their shit which is made of our shit that we made 'em eat. Then all you motherfuckers are next. Love, Jay and Silent Bob.
JAY: That'll fucking show 'em. Now we eat our Egga-Mooby-Muffins, then get back on the road, get to Hollywood, and stop that fucking movie from getting made. No more hairy-bush nuns, no more dogs. We keep our eye on the prize, and not let nothing and I mean NOTHINGdistract me.
JAY'S POV: The Girl smiles at us. His POV goes from her face, down to her breasts, then down to her crotch. Jay moves past Silent Bob and meets the Girl in the middle of the floor. He embraces her and lands a long, sweet kiss on her mouth. After a beat, he starts fumbling like a teenager to get to second base under her shirt, totally incongruous with the music. The Girl kindly tries to deter him. But it's just a fantasy. Jay's still standing there next to Silent Bob, but he is sporting a huge BONER. Silent Bob rolls his eyes. He grabs a soda cup off the counter and sticks it over Jay's boner, just as the Girl joins them in line. She smiles at the zombified Jay.
GIRL: ( off cup ) Oh my God. Do you get free refills with that?
JAY: Oh, whatthis? I just wear this for protection. You knowso no guys try to grab my shit.
GIRL: Hi. I'm Justice.
JAY: ( dreamily ) And I am so fucking yours
JAY: I mean hi. I'm Jay. And this is my hereto life-mate, Silent Bob.
JUSTICE: It's nice to meet you.
JAY: Justice, hunh? That's a nice name. Jay'n'Justice, sitting in a tree. F-
JUSTICE: Oh, I'm not from around here. My friends and I are taking a road trip, and we just stopped to grab something to eat.
JAY: Your friends, hunh? Where they at?
JUSTICE: ( pointing ) Out there. By that van.
JAY: DudeI think I just filled the cup.
JAY: Ladies, ladies, ladies! Jay and Silent Bob are in the Hizz-ouse!!!
SISSY: Who the fuck are these guys?
JUSTICE: This is Jay and Silent Bob. Guys, this is Sissy, Missy, and Where the fuck did they come from?
CHRISSY: Where the fuck did they come from?
JUSTICE: I met 'em inside. They're gonna hitch a ride.
SISSY: I don't know if that's such a great idea. Jussy.
JAY: Sure it is, Juggs.
MISSY: Oh my godhe just called Sissy I'm on it.
CHRISSY: I'm on it.
JUSTICE: Chrissy, no!
SISSY: We're in the middle of suburbia, Chrissy. Let's try to act like it.
CHRISSY: And what-stupid ass little foul- mouthed bitch-boys don't get their balls cut off in suburbia?
JAY: ( oblivious ) What's with the knife? We having cake or something?
CHRISSY: Holy shithe's retarded, to boot.
JAY: ( to Silent Bob ) Yoshe called you retarded.
SISSY: ( to Justice ) What's wrong with you, Justice? You do remember where we're going, don't That we do have a job to do?
MISSY: That we do have a job to do?
JUSTICE: They're just gonna tag along for a few miles. They won't get in the way, I promise. Finethey can ride with us. But they're so out of here before we get to Boulder.
SISSY: Finethey can ride with us. But they're so out of here before we get to Boulder.
JUSTICE: Honest Injun.
CHRISSY: "Honest Injun"? I can't believe what a pushover you And I can't believe fine-ass bitches like yourselves eat that shit. Don't you know fast food makes girls fart?
JAY: And I can't believe fine-ass bitches like yourselves eat that shit. Don't you know fast food makes girls fart?
BRENT: Saywhat's all this talk about
SISSY: This is Brent. He's with us, too.
CHRISSY: Brent, tell these sillies that girls don't fart.
BRENT: Of course they don't! Only skeevy stoners fart.
BRENT: What up, homies? Wow, Three guys, four girls What's the count boys?
BRENT: Hey there mister science-guy. Don't spray that aerosol in my eye. For I don't really want to die. I'm a noble What're you guys, like a cover band or something?
JAY: What're you guys, like a cover band or something?
SISSY: We're the Kansas State chapter of S.A.A.C.Students Against Animal And we're on our way to Colorado to give Provasik a piece of our minds!
CHRISSY: And we're on our way to Colorado to give Provasik a piece of our minds!
JAY: What the fuck are you bitches babbling Hey! Watch the language little boy. There are females present. Provasik Pharmaceuticals is a medical lab where they perform gross experiments on animals.
BRENT: Hey! Watch the language little boy. There are females present. Provasik Pharmaceuticals is a medical lab where they perform gross experiments on animals.
JUSTICE: Provasik Pharmaceuticals is a medical lab where they perform gross experiments on animals.
JAY: So, what kind of animals are we talking about herelike bears and Nomore like rabbits, dogs, cats. heck, even monkeys, If we don't speak for them, who will? Right, Jussy?
BRENT: Nomore like rabbits, dogs, cats. heck, even monkeys, If we don't speak for them, who will? Right, Jussy?
JAY: Hey, uhBrent? Can I talk to you over here for a second? Be honest, yoyou're down with this for the fine-ass pussy, right?
JAY: Be honest, yoyou're down with this for the fine-ass pussy, right?
BRENT: I'm down with this because I love animals, stupid.
JAY: Even sheep?
BRENT: Of course. Sheep are beautiful They are beautiful, aren't they?
JAY: They are beautiful, aren't they?
BRENT: Oh God, yes.
JAY: So then you'd fuck a sheep?
BRENT: What is your damage little boy? You've got a sick and twisted world No, you misunderstand me, Prince Valiant. I mean if you were another sheep. Would you fuck a sheep if you were another sheep?
JAY: No, you misunderstand me, Prince Valiant. I mean if you were another sheep. Would you fuck a sheep if you were another sheep?
BRENT: Isuppose so.
JAY: That's what I thought.
JAY: YA DIRTY SHEEP FUCKER!!!
CHRISSY: What the fuck are we gonna do now?
SISSY: Shut up, I'm thinking.
JAY: Is Hollywood near where we're going?
JUSTICE: Is that where you guys are from?
JAY: Ch'yeah, right. Jersey represent!
JUSTICE: Oh, a Jersey Boy. What brings you all the way out here?
JAY: Well, we couldn't hang in front of the Quick Stop no more, 'cause of the strainen-en order, which sucks ass 'cause it's been like our home since we were kids. Silent Bob even busted his cherry there.
JUSTICE: ( to Bob ) You did? I'll bet she was a lucky Look, fuck that fat fuckI'm trying to tell a story here.
JAY: Look, fuck that fat fuckI'm trying to tell a story here.
JUSTICE: Anyway, we were talking to Brodie and he said there's gonna be a Bluntman and Chronic movie. So we went to see Holden McNeil, and he showed us the Internet, and that's where we found all these fucking little jerkoffs were saying shit about us. So we decided to go to Hollywood and stop the movie from getting made. And now we're here.
JAY: Anyway, we were talking to Brodie and he said there's gonna be a Bluntman and Chronic movie. So we went to see Holden McNeil, and he showed us the Internet, and that's where we found all these fucking little jerkoffs were saying shit about us. So we decided to go to Hollywood and stop the movie from getting made. And now we're here.
JUSTICE: Wow. I have no idea what you just Yeah, I get that a lot. So you like animals, huh?
JAY: Yeah, I get that a lot. So you like animals, huh?
JUSTICE: That's cool. Even snakes?
JAY: That's cool. Even snakes?
JUSTICE: You can't exclude an animal just because it's not cuddly. Of course I like snakes.
JAY: How about trouser snakes?
JUSTICE: What's a trouser snake?
JAY DEVIL: ( to Jay ) What the fuck are you waiting for? She went for the setup! Reach in your fucking pants, and pull yer cock out, bitch! That's the kinda shit girls like! Right about here's where the angel's supposed to show up and tell you not to pull your dick out. But we bitch- slapped that little fuck and sent him packing, so it's smooth sailing. Let 'er rip, boy!
JAY ANGEL: Sorry I'm late. So what's the deal Oh, shityou're not thinking of whipping your dick out at this fine piece of woman, are you?
JAY ANGEL: Tell you what: look at Silent Bob. See if he thinks it's a good idea to whip your dick out. That's it, boyput the dick down. You gotta go from the heart, yo. No little perv bullshit will do for this one. Be smooth. Be Don Juan de la Nootch. Now I gotta go beat the shit out of two suckerpunching little bitches. Rememberdon't pull your dick out until she asks you to. Or until she sleeping. Bunnnnggg! The Jay Angel blinks away. Justice looks at Jay, a bit confused.
JAY ANGEL: That's it, boyput the dick down. You gotta go from the heart, yo. No little perv bullshit will do for this one. Be smooth. Be Don Juan de la Nootch. Now I gotta go beat the shit out of two suckerpunching little bitches. Rememberdon't pull your dick out until she asks you to. Or until she sleeping. Bunnnnggg! The Jay Angel blinks away. Justice looks at Jay, a bit confused.
JAY: Don't ask. So, uhwhat can a pimp-daddy like me do to help the animals?
JUSTICE: You really don't want to help us
JAY: What the fuck are you talking about? Sure I do. I'd do anything for you.
JAY: I mean, youse guys! I'd do anything for youse guys. For the lift and You sure?
JUSTICE: You sure?
JAY: Sure, I'm sure. I said it, didn't I. Wellokay. Let me talk it over with the other girls and get back to you.
JUSTICE: Wellokay. Let me talk it over with the other girls and get back to you.
JAY: You do that.
JAY: I'll be right here.
JAY: Fuck you. Fatty.
JUSTICE: You guys want anything from inside?
JAY: No, we're cool, thanks hon.
JAY: It just ain't the same, is it? This place licks balls compared to Quick
JAY: And speaking of licking ballshow 'bout that Justice chick? She is too fine. And she smells so fucking pretty. She's got a nice voice, too. And that body? Smoking. You know, she never once said "fuck off," when I was talking to her, or pulled out the pepper spray, or nothing. I tell ya, Lunchboxshe could be the one.
MISSY: Smooth move, Justice.
CHRISSY: ( slapping Justice upside the head ) Nice going, Four Eyes!
JUSTICE: Why the fuck did you let that little stoner throw Brent our of the van?!
SISSY: Why the fuck did you let that little stoner throw Brent our of the van?!
JUSTICE: Oh pleaseif I had to listen to one more of those stupid songs, I was going to throw him out myself.
SISSY: We needed Brent, Justice! He was our We'll find someone else. Besides, I didn't see you trying to stop Jay from throwing him out.
JUSTICE: We'll find someone else. Besides, I didn't see you trying to stop Jay from throwing him out.
SISSY: Because I didn't want to blow our Cover, shmoveryou all hated his songs, too.
JUSTICE: Cover, shmoveryou all hated his songs, too.
CHRISSY: Not as much as I hate you.
CHRISSY: Fuck, if I don't get to kill someone soon, I'm gonnafucking kill someone!
SISSY: ( rubbing Chrissy's shoulders ) Don't mind Chrissy. She's just a little too wound for sound.
CHRISSY: Then how about you help me take the edge off?
JUSTICE: ( to Customers ) They're really good friends.
SISSY: ( TO CHRISSY AND MISSY ) Would you two knock it off? We're in the fucking heartland here! Try to They already doshe's the milkmaid, and she's the cow.
JUSTICE: They already doshe's the milkmaid, and she's the cow.
CHRISSY: Oh, I'm a cow, am I? I'm a mad cow, bitch. And now I'm gonna rip your head off and fuck your spine stump.
SISSY: ( calm to Justice ) We have a very simple gang here, Justice. I'm the brains, Chrissy's the brawn, and Missy's the tech-girl. But lately, I'm having a hard time figuring out what you're doing here.
JUSTICE: That makes two of us.
CHRISSY: Shityour name doesn't even fit the rhyme scheme.
JUSTICE: That's because very few names rhyme with "douchebag."
CHRISSY: ( getting in her face ) You're dancing on my last nerve, Strawberry Shortcake. ( to Sissy ) You deal with the weak link. I'm gonna take Missy into the dirty convenience store bathroom and hate- fuck the shit out of her.
JUSTICE: And you said letting them read all that Anais Nin wouldn't amount to Don't change the subject. You know what you have to do now, right? Since you let our patsy slip away, you've gotta convince the little kid and that fat guy to take his place. They've gotta break into Provasik Uh-huh. You'll do it; or you're out of this gang. Just use the little one's crush to convince him, since he's so fucking in love with you.
SISSY: Don't change the subject. You know what you have to do now, right? Since you let our patsy slip away, you've gotta convince the little kid and that fat guy to take his place. They've gotta break into Provasik Uh-huh. You'll do it; or you're out of this gang. Just use the little one's crush to convince him, since he's so fucking in love with you.
JUSTICE: Uh-huh. You'll do it; or you're out of this gang. Just use the little one's crush to convince him, since he's so fucking in love with you.
SISSY: Uh-huh. You'll do it; or you're out of this gang. Just use the little one's crush to convince him, since he's so fucking in love with you.
JUSTICE: Jay? No he's not.
SISSY: Whatam I blind? He wasn't kissing your hand back in the van like he was fucking Lord Byron?
JUSTICE: Well, maybe he was just raised with
JAY: ( to exited Girl )
SISSY: You're the one that brought the kid in, Jussy. So you've gotta make Jay is not taking Brent's place as the patsy.
JUSTICE: Jay is not taking Brent's place as the patsy.
SISSY: That kid and his quite friend are our only options at this point. Now we got about two hours before we get to Boulder. That gives you plenty of of time to work on him.
JUSTICE: I'm not gonna do it.
SISSY: Why the fuck not?
JUSTICE: Because he's just to so innocent!
JUSTICE: Look at him
JAY: I'm gonna finger-fuck her tight little asshole! Finger-bang and tea-bang my ballsin her mouth! Where? Where? In her mouthballs-a-plenty in her mouth! Balls, balls, sweaty balls
SISSY: Who's it going to be, Jussyhim or
JAY: Steal a monkey? Shitno problem.
JUSTICE: It's not really stealingit's liberating it, and Wait a seconddid you say, "No Yeah, Fuckwe steal monkeys all the Right, Lunchbox?
JAY: Yeah, Fuckwe steal monkeys all the Right, Lunchbox?
JUSTICE: It's not like it's a bad thing. It's for a good cause.
JAY: Oh, it for the best cause, mon cheri The cause of love. What the heck is that?
JUSTICE: What the heck is that?
JAY: What's what?
JUSTICE: "Snoogans," I believe it was.
JAY: What the fuck do you think it means? It means "I'm kidding."
JUSTICE: Ohhh. Well, that's too bad.
JAY: ( singing ) I can't believe I'm gonna get some pussy for stealing a monkey! ( speaking ) If I'd known it was that easy, I'd've been stealing monkeys since I was like seven and shit.
JAY: Don't, motherfucker. Don't you ruin this for me. Me and Justice are gonna get married one day, so don't be giving me that "we-ain't-stealing-no- monkey" look. I'm Morris Day; you're Jerome, bitch. Don't forget that. That girl? That girl's in love with
JUSTICE: They're gonna do it.
SISSY: Good. They do their part And we'll do ours.
JUSTICE: Rememberwe meet back here when you're done. You sure you're okay with this?
JAY: As sure as I am that you're the hottest bitch I ever seen. What's twisting that bitch's tits?
JAY: What's twisting that bitch's tits?
JUSTICE: Maybe it's because women don't like to be called "bitches," Jay.
JAY: They don't? Well how 'bout "piece of How about not.
JUSTICE: How about not.
JAY: Well, what the fuck am I supposed to call you, then?
JUSTICE: Something sweet, you big goof. Something nice.
JAY: ( thinks; then ) Boo-boo kitty fuck.
JUSTICE: ( laughing ) Okay. That's a start.
SISSY: Jay, before you go, could you say something into the camera about the Man you are such a bitch
JAY: ( to Sissy ) Man you are such a bitch
JUSTICE: ( to Sissy ) Man you are such a bitch
SISSY: ( off Justice; to Jay ) She's just a little embarrassed. See, Jussy and I are putting together this documentary for our Human Sexuality class, and we need a male perspective on the clitoris.
JAY: The female clitoris?
SISSY: Jay, you don't have to do this.
JUSTICE: Jay, you don't have to do this.
JAY: Nah, it's cool, hon. There's a few things I can say about the clit that I's like you to hear. I am the master of the clit! I make that shit work! It does what ever the fuck I tell it to do! No one rules the clit like me! Not this little fuck! None of you little fucks out there! I am the clit commander!!! Remember that commander of all clits!
SISSY: Awesome. Knock 'em dead, Tiger.
JAY: ( to Justice ) Socan I get a little kiss for good
JAY: Socan I get a little blow job for good luck?
SISSY: Jussy. C'mon.
SISSY: Hey, Lover-girl. You cock-block my authority again, you lose your fucking fronts, you got that?
JUSTICE: Yes, sir.
SISSY: Phase One, down. While we're executing Phase Two, you edit that tape and grab a new car.
MISSY: No sweat.
SISSY: Let's suit up.
JAY: You fat fuck
SISSY: They in?
MISSY: You can say that.
SISSY: Time to shine. Let's go.
JUSTICE: You are so gay.
SISSY: Once we're inside, I want complete Missy whipped this up. It counts our decibel level. If it goes into the redalarm, we're dead. So not even the slightest noise, got it?
SISSY: ( pokes her head back out ) Justice! Move your ass!
JAY: Stay frosty, you big fucking softie. We've got a job to do.
JAY: Check this out, Lunchbox. Animal tranquilizer. This shit fucks you up like Percocets!
JAY: Hold this. Later, me and Justice can shoot each other with it and fuck like stoned test bunnies. Bunnggg.
JAY: ( reading ) "Suzanne." Boo-yah.
CHRISSY: Holy fuckthe little stoner was
CHRISSY: Boom Box! I can't believe it. Months of planning and it's all blown by a fucking fart.
SISSY: I can't believe it. Months of planning and it's all blown by a fucking fart.
JUSTICE: We can't just leave them like this! That alarm's gonna bring the cops here any minute!
SISSY: That was always the plan, Justice! They take the heat off of is long enough until we can get out of town!
CHRISSY: Kaboom, you little stoner fucks.
CHRISSY: It's set. Let's roll.
JAY: What the fuck are you looking at? There ain't no snacks here, man! Now we got what we came for, so let's get the fuck out!
JAY: Yeah, it's sad! But what the fuck are we supposed to do about it?
JUSTICE: JUSTICE! OPEN THE DOORS!
JAY: Oh shit
COP: DROP THE BAG! BEFORE THIS THING TURNS
EXPLOSIVE!: The counter on the device attached to the van hits "0," and the van BLOWS UP. Jay and Bob get thrown backwards in one direction, the Cops in the other. On all fours, Jay looks at the burning shell of the van, a tear forming in his eye.
JAY: We crane up from him as he bellows
JAY: Silent Bob grabs Jay and drags him out of frame, still carrying the bag.
JUUUSSSTTTTIIIICCCCEEEE!!!!!!: Silent Bob grabs Jay and drags him out of frame, still carrying the bag.
DEPUTY: Oh, fudge. Marshal Willenholly!
WILLENHOLLY: Yeah, you chug that ass-cock baby It takes two hands to hold doesn't it? Uhhh
WILLENHOLLY: WHAT?! WHAT?! I'M READING! Sir, we got a report of a break-in at Provasik Pharmaceuticals' testing
WILLENHOLLY: Have you read this article on the mule-suckers in Tijuana? Good God, I wish that was in our jurisdiction I'd shut down every last one of those ass-cock chuggers, personally.
WILLENHOLLY: What? "Ass" means "donkey."
DEPUTY: Yes, sir.
WILLENHOLLY: ( looks at fax ) Boulder, hunh? Well, gas up the jet.
DEPUTY: We don't have a jet, sir. And Boulder's only ten minutes away.
WILLENHOLLY: Then gas up the next best thing.
WILLENHOLLY: My, oh my, oh my. Who let the cats Waitis that right?
WILLENHOLLY: Federal Wildlife Marshal. This investigation is now under my Oh really? And why is that?
COP 1: Oh really? And why is that?
WILLENHOLLY: Because someone let a whole mess of animals out of their cages, sir.
COP 1: Well, we believe that was just a diversionary tactic used to call attention away from the real heist over here at the Diamond Exchange.
WILLENHOLLY: Yeah, right. That's a believable scenario. It sounds more like something out of a bad movie.
COP 2: Sir, the Provasik people say they've rounded all their animals up, except for one: an orangutan.
WILLENHOLLY: Listen up, ladies and gentlemen! Our fugitive has been on the run for 6 hours! Average simian foot speed over uneven groundbarring injuries or preoccupation with tire tubes, mites or bananasis four miles an hour. That gives us a radius of twenty Twenty-four, sir!
COP 3: ( calling out from crowd ) Twenty-four, sir!
WILLENHOLLY: COP 3
COP 3: Six hours times four miles an hour is twenty-four.
WILLENHOLLY: ( doing the math in his head ) Yes. Yes, you're right. My bad. Twenty- four miles. Now what I want out of all of you is a hard target search.
COP 4: Excuse me, sir?
WILLENHOLLY: COP 4 COP 4
COP 4: What does that mean, exactlya "hard target search"? What's a "hard Well. It'sa targetthat'shard. So are you referring to the search's level of difficulty? Or is the hard target the monkey?
WILLENHOLLY: Well. It'sa targetthat'shard. So are you referring to the search's level of difficulty? Or is the hard target the monkey?
COP 4: So are you referring to the search's level of difficulty? Or is the hard target the monkey?
COP 3: Or the people who stole the monkey?
WILLENHOLLY: Okay, how about this? What I want out of all of you is a thorough search of every gas station, residence, warehouse, farmhouse, henhouse, outhouse, and doghouse in that area! Checkpoints go up at fifteen miles!
COP 1: Wouldn't it make sense to put them up at every twenty-four milesseeing as that's how far they'd have gotten in the last six hours?
WILLENHOLLY: This is so frustrating. It's just so hard sometimes
FIND HER!: Another COP joins Willenholly, carrying a large, fat envelope.
COP 5: Sir, this was just delivered to the What is it?
WILLENHOLLY: What is it?
COP 5: It's a tape from the terrorists who're claiming credit for the break-in.
WILLENHOLLY: Is it VHS or Beta? You know what never mind. Do you have a VCR?
WILLENHOLLY: Oh my God Have the jet gassed up and ready to go at a moment's notice.
COP: Sir, we don't have a jet; just a Doesn't anybody have a jet anymore? Plafsky? It is Willenholly. You gotta get me on the national news, pronto. Why?! Because we may very well be dealing with the two most dangerous men on the planet!
WILLENHOLLY: ( dialing his cell phone ) Doesn't anybody have a jet anymore? ( into cell phone ) Plafsky? It is Willenholly. You gotta get me on the national news, pronto. Why?! Because we may very well be dealing with the two most dangerous men on the planet!
JAY: This is Jussy's monkey
FUCK!: Suzanne covers her eyes with her hands suddenly. Jay and Silent Bob, startle, with Jay leaping behind Silent Bob and pulling back as if he's going to strike.
JAY: ( to Silent Bob ) Do something. Tons of Fun!
JAY: Is that fucking thing waving at us?
JAY: Holy shit? That monkey understood us! Maybe it's some sort of super- What the fuck was that for? It's not a stupid idea! I seen it in Congo? You're my bitch. You get my back. Don't go joining this chimp's side.
JAY: What the fuck was that for? It's not a stupid idea! I seen it in Congo? You're my bitch. You get my back. Don't go joining this chimp's side.
JAY: You're my bitch. You get my back. Don't go joining this chimp's side.
JAY: Yowhat if there's more super monkeys up in the lab? Maybe they're making an army of 'em up there! Holy shit! Maybe it's a conspiracylike on the X-Files Roswellstyle!
JAY: ( at statue )
JAY: Not on my watch, motherfucker!
JAY: DIE, YOU SUPER-MONKEY FUCK! DIE!!!
JAY: Alrightyou can live. For now.
JAY: You see that? Bitches love me. Besideswe're in the fucking clear, yo. It's not like anyone knows we stole the monkey.
ANCHORMAN: I'm Reg Hartner and this is a News Now bulletin. A Provasik animal testing facility in boulder was the focus of an attack by a terroristic primate rescue syndicate calling themselves the Coalition for Liberation of Itinerant Tree-Dwellers. Or simply, C.L.I.T.
ANCHORMAN: In a videotape sent to authorities this morning, credit for the liberation of an orangutan from the lab last night is taken by these men
ANCHORMAN: identified in literature that accompanies the tape as Jay and Silent Bob. In this chilling clip, they make it very clear that they are in control of the C.L.I.T.
DIGITIZED VOICE: We are the C.L.I.T. None of you are safe. Now tremble before the might of our merciless leader. I AM THE CLIT COMMANDER!!!
JAY: I AM THE CLIT COMMANDER!!!
ANCHORMAN: Terrifying. Here to help us understand this footage is Federal Wildlife Marshal Willenholly.
ANCHORMAN: Marshal, what can you tell us about the C.L.I.T.?
WILLENHOLLY: From the intelligence we've been able to gather, we've discovered that the C.L.I.T. is a tiny offshoot of the L.A.B.I.A.
ANCHORMAN: The Liberate Apes Before Imprisoning Apes movement.
WILLENHOLLY: Exactly. The men you saw in the video are believed to be the masterminds responsible for the frenzied C.L.I.T. activity last night. They go by the obvious code names "Jay" and "Silent If you should come across them or any other C.L.I.T.-ies, please exercise extreme caution.
HOLDEN: ( shakes his head ) Nights like this, I miss dating a ( from TV ) Is there also speculation that Jay and Silent bob may be responsible for the Diamond Exchange jewel heist that occurred in the same vicinity of downtown Boulder last night?
RANDAL: ( to Dante ) I told you that restraining order was a good idea.
ANCHORMAN: ( on TV ) Is that your cell phone?
WILLENHOLLY: ( on TV ) Yes, Excuse me. ( on TV, into cell phone ) Federal Wildlife Marshal. I'm on my ( shuts phone; to anchorman ) We got 'em. They're in Utah. ( to camera ) Citizens of Utahsteer clear of the C.L.I.T. Stimulation of the C.L.I.T. is not recommended.
JUSTICE: Your tape worked. The news is all about Jay and Silent Bob's Provasik break-in, with almost no mention of the Diamond heist.
SISSY: ( yelling down to Justice ) I told you those two were the perfect patsies. Now we lay low for awhile just in caseand start planning the next job.
JUSTICE: Don't you feel any regret? Jay and Bob don't deserve this. They were really sweet.
CHRISSY: The only thing I regret is not gutting that little trout-mouthed prick like a fish and playing Twister with his You are so nasty.
MISSY: You are so nasty.
CHRISSY: I'll show you nasty, you little slut.
SISSY: Would you two get a room?
CHRISSY: Finewe'll take yours. I am gonna stain your sheets, bi-
SISSY: Sarah Lawrence girls. Go figure.
JUSTICE: They're your gang.
SISSY: Oh and not yours? You know, I don't get you, Justice. You used to be all about the girl stuff: stealing, boning, blowing shit up. Now you're like this little priss with a conscience. It's really a fucking We all gotta grow up some time.
JUSTICE: We all gotta grow up some time.
SISSY: If moping around over some little boy you're crushing on is being grown- up, then pass me my Wonder Woman Don't you feel the least bit of guilt for what we did to those guys?
JUSTICE: Don't you feel the least bit of guilt for what we did to those guys?
SISSY: Awww. Does Jussy-wussy feel all dirty about setting up her boyfriend? Then how about taking a shower?
SISSY: This dopey bitch ordered the large plain, but I could go for some hot, thick, Sicilian.
JUSTICE: ( quietly ) I'm sorry, Jay.
JAY: You know, Justice died trying to save this monkey, so maybe we should keep her around. That way, we can honor her memory. Look at you Tubby Bitches. I'm waxing all sentimental, and you're all about a fucking meal and shit. Now ain't you glad we stopped to eat? And you were all piss-scared the cops'd bust us or something. You know what I
JAY: Look at you Tubby Bitches. I'm waxing all sentimental, and you're all about a fucking meal and shit. Now ain't you glad we stopped to eat? And you were all piss-scared the cops'd bust us or something. You know what I
THE ORANGUTAN!: Jay and Bob freeze and go wild-eyed for a beat. Then
JAY: You think they're talking to us?
SHERIFF: YOU HAVE SIXTY SECONDS TO COMPLY. Fuck it, Let's give 'em thirty.
SHERIFF: The ape.
WILLENHOLLY: An orangutan's a member of the great ape family. It's not a monkey.
SHERIFF: An orangutan's a member of the great ape family. It's not a monkey.
WILLENHOLLY: Look, who's the Federal Wildlife Marshal here?
JAY: What the fuck are you waiting for? Go out there and give 'em the monkey.
JAY: Oh, what, man? I said that shit before I knew they were gonna shoot us! YesJussy was a hottie, but I ain't takin' no bullet for no monkey!
JAY: Oh, brotherthis is like something out of fucking Benji! Look man, maybe it's not that bad back at the lab! Maybe they experiment on 'em by, like making 'em fuck a bunch of different, good-looking monkeys. We don't know! Maybe they got it real
JAY: ( to Suzanne ) You stay out of this, you weepy little ( looks around thinking ) Fuck man, I ain't no strategist! You're the guy that makes the blueprints! I don't even have the fucking smarts of a little
JAY: EXT. DINERDAY Willenholly's on the bullhorn, yelling at the diner. The Sheriff looks on.
WILLENHOLLY: ANYONE NOT HARBORING A FUGITIVE MONKEY BETTER HIT THE DECK! WE'RE GOING TO OPEN FIRE! Everyone has bullets in their guns,
OPEN FIRE!: ( to cops ) Everyone has bullets in their guns,
JAY: Don't shoot! We're just trying to take our son out of this hostile
SHERIFF: Their "son"?
WILLENHOLLY: Maybe they're one of those gay
JAY: Yeah! We're gay! And this is our adopted love child! We're not from around here! Don't make us go back to our liberal city home with a tales of prejudice and bigotry in the heart of Utah! You see the shit I gotta put up with for you! Now I got this guy thinking I'm gay!
WILLENHOLLY: Oh God, this is the last thing I needa bunch of uppity homosexuals shooting their mouth off in the liberal press that the Federal Wildlife Marshal's Office persecutes ARE YOU FUCKING CRAZY! THOSE TWO MAY BE GAY, BUT THAT AIN'T THEIR SON! THAT'S THE APE! You see this badge? I think I'd recognize an ape if I saw one. And the only thing I do recognize here is a political fiasco I'm, going to avoid by letting this butt-fucking Brady Bunch go!
SHERIFF: ARE YOU FUCKING CRAZY! THOSE TWO MAY BE GAY, BUT THAT AIN'T THEIR SON! THAT'S THE APE! You see this badge? I think I'd recognize an ape if I saw one. And the only thing I do recognize here is a political fiasco I'm, going to avoid by letting this butt-fucking Brady Bunch go!
WILLENHOLLY: You see this badge? I think I'd recognize an ape if I saw one. And the only thing I do recognize here is a political fiasco I'm, going to avoid by letting this butt-fucking Brady Bunch go!
JAY: And I'll tell you another thing: what if that guy shows up around the stores one day and starts telling everybody you and me are poo-gilists? How are we gonna get any pussy then, YOU ARE FREE TO LEAVE, SIRS!
WILLENHOLLY: ( via bullhorn )
JAY: ( calling over ) So we can just go?
WILLENHOLLY: ( via bullhorn ) Yes, siror ma'am. Please accept my apologies for detaining you and your protected-family unit.
SHERIFF: ( amazed ) Un-fucking believable.
JAY: I'd like to offer a big gay thank- you, sir. We'll tell all our gay friends that Utah is Gay friendly country for gays who are gay.
WILLENHOLLY: I'm sure Utah appreciates that. You might also want to make it clear that the Federal Wildlife Marshal's Office is also pro-'mo as well. And might I add, that's one fine- looking boy you're raising.
JAY: Well, that's 'cuz he's from my sperm. See, I knocked up a hot woman friend of ours who I also fuck on the side. So as not to be all-the-way-gay. But my tubby husband here is one hundred percent queer. He loves the cock.
WILLENHOLLY: He certainly looks insatiable.
JAY: Jay, silent Bob and Suzanne head off down the road. Willenholly and all watch them go. The Sheriff is livid.
WILLENHOLLY: Jay, silent Bob and Suzanne head off down the road. Willenholly and all watch them go. The Sheriff is livid.
WILLENHOLLY: Well, it's not my waybut damned if there doesn't go one happy family. Now, we just shoot some tear gas into that diner, and when the two guys run out with the monkey, we'll That was the them, wasn't it?
WILLENHOLLY: That was the them, wasn't it?
JAY: I said you "love the cock"! I gotta be the craftiest motherfucker alive!
JAY: FLEE, FAT-ASS, FLEE!!!
JAY: HEAD FOR THE SEWERS!
JAY: Take your stinking paws off me, you damn dirty ape!
JAY: You fat fuck.
JAY: You justhad toorder pancakes didn't ya?
WILLENHOLLY: Fire a warning shot into that bulbous One rectal breach, coming up!
SHERIFF: One rectal breach, coming up!
JAY: SUCK IT IN! THINK THIN! THINK THIN!!!
SHERIFF: Open up and say "ahhhhh," you stoner
SILENT BOB: EXT. DAM ROADDAY The Sheriff's gun fires.
AAAAAHHHHHHHHH!!!: EXT. DAM ROADDAY The Sheriff's gun fires.
JAY: SILENT BOB
INCOMING!!!: SILENT BOB
SILENT BOB: EXT. DAM ROADDAY The bullet ricochets off the curb, as Silent Bob's feet slip INT. SEWER TUNNELSAME Jay, Silent Bob, and Suzanne are in various states of collapse. Jay and Bob look up at the hole.
AAAIIIGGGGGHHHHHHHH!!!: EXT. DAM ROADDAY The bullet ricochets off the curb, as Silent Bob's feet slip INT. SEWER TUNNELSAME Jay, Silent Bob, and Suzanne are in various states of collapse. Jay and Bob look up at the hole.
SUZANNE: EXT. DAM ROADDAY The bullet ricochets off the curb, as Silent Bob's feet slip INT. SEWER TUNNELSAME Jay, Silent Bob, and Suzanne are in various states of collapse. Jay and Bob look up at the hole.
OOOOOOOOO!!!: EXT. DAM ROADDAY The bullet ricochets off the curb, as Silent Bob's feet slip INT. SEWER TUNNELSAME Jay, Silent Bob, and Suzanne are in various states of collapse. Jay and Bob look up at the hole.
JAY: Just like Winnie-the-Pooh.
WILLENHOLLY: Wow! That was an incredibly daring You must see that a lot, hunh?
SHERIFF: Shut up!
WILLENHOLLY: Sire, you're very taciturn.
WILLENHOLLY: You and your men stay up here. When I corner them, I'll call you for What're you doing? They're trapped. The only way they can get out of there is right here.
SHERIFF: What're you doing? They're trapped. The only way they can get out of there is right here.
WILLENHOLLY: A Federal Wildlife Marshal doesn't wait for his prey to come to him. He comes to it. Or goes to it. Is it "comes to it" or "goes to it"? I'm going in there. I'm counting on you Sheriff.
WILLENHOLLY: You've taught me so much.
SHERIFF: Fuck this asshole. Let's go back to the station and get some donuts.
JAY: This reminds me of the night I fucked your mom, yo. One big-wet, smelly, gaping hole, and me wishing I had a board tied to my ass
JAY: to keep from falling in.
WILLENHOLLY: PUT THE MONKEY DOWN AND YOUR HANDS
UP!: Willenholly aims his gun at the trio's backs.
WILLENHOLLY: MISTERS, DO YOU WANNA GET SHOT?!?
JAY: LOOK MANSHE DOESN'T WANT TO GO BACK! THEY'RE EXPERIMENTING ON HER!
GAY!: I DON'T CARE!
WILLENHOLLY: I DON'T CARE!
JAY: SURE, FOR ONE MORE RECORD
WILLENHOLLY: ON YOUR KNEES!
JAY: See, man?! He's lining us up like fucking circus seals! Well, I'm going firstI don't want no mouthful of monkey-spit when I gotta blow this fucking G-Man. GET OFFA ME!!! GET OFFA ME!!!
JAY: GET OFFA ME!!! GET OFFA ME!!!
AAAAIIIGGGGGHHHHH!!!: INT. SEWER TUNNELDAY Willenholly goes wide-eyed, holstering his gun.
WILLENHOLLY: Oh, nothink you can pull a Peter Pan on me?!
WILLENHOLLY: EXT. DAMDAY As Willenholly plummets, he passes Suzanne hanging by her feet off a pipe that pokes out from beneath the mouth of the tunnel. She's hanging upside down, holding Jay and Silent Bob's hands.
AAAIIIGGGGHHHHH!!!: EXT. DAMDAY As Willenholly plummets, he passes Suzanne hanging by her feet off a pipe that pokes out from beneath the mouth of the tunnel. She's hanging upside down, holding Jay and Silent Bob's hands.
JAY: HEY LAW-DOG! SEE YOU IN HELL, COCK
SMOKER!!!: EXT. DAM BOTTOMDAY Willenholly plummets toward the water below and ker-splashes into the drink.
JAY: You see that shit? Damnremind me not to get on the monkey's bad side. Yoboost her up. So we can talk, so we can get the fuck out of here.
JAY: HEY! GET THE FUCK OFF HER, MAN! THAT'S MY EX-GIRLFRIEND'S MONKEY?!
JAY: Man! Who the fuck just steals a
JAY: Oh yeah. Well this fucking blows! We got one more day to stop those fucks from making that movie, and someone goes and takes the only thing I had left from the one woman I ever loved enough NOT to try to stick my hand down her
JAY: Go after the monkey? How the fuck are we supposed to know where that thing's going?
JAY: What? What is that supposed to mean?! Don't just fucking point like You ain't the broad in the Children of a Lesser God. Use you fucking mouth for more than eating, ya tubby
JAY: You gotta take a shit? Noyou gotta take a salad? Take a salad? What the fuck are you trying to say?
JAY: JUST FUCKING SAY IT ALREADY?!?
SILENT BOB: THE SIGN ON THE BACK OF THE CAR SAID CRITTERS OF HOLLYWOOD, YOU DUMB
FUCK!!!: Bob releases Jay, breathing heavily and storms off in the direction of the car went. Jay watched him go for a beat, then follows, muttering under his breath
JAY: Say it, don't spray it, bitch.
SHERIFF: Well, if it isn't the wildlife experts. Did you come to it or go to Do you have a microwave here, Sheriff?
WILLENHOLLY: Do you have a microwave here, Sheriff?
SHERIFF: We have a toaster oven. Why?
WILLENHOLLY: Because I need to dry my gun out so I can SHOOT YOU WITH IT ! TWICE!
SHERIFF: This might cheer you up. Your office just faxed this over. Guy there say it's a post from an Internet chat board, signed by a "Jay and Silent Bob." Your man thinks it's a lead as to where those fellas are taking the ape.
WILLENHOLLY: ( reading ) "All you motherfuckers are gonna pay. You are the ones who are ball- lickers. We're gonna fuck your mothers while you watch and cry like little bitches. Once we get to ( looks up ) They're going to Hollywood.
JAY: What? It's not like it's cheating. Justice blew up.
HOOKER 1: Hey, little man. You want some of How about you, Big Boy?
HOOKER 2: How about you, Big Boy?
HOOKER 1: If you've got fifty bucks we can get Oh yeah? How nasty?
JAY: Oh yeah? How nasty?
HOOKER 2: As nasty as you wanna be, poppie.
JAY: Alrightfirst, I'll want to tongue your bung while you juggle my balls in one hand and play with my asshole with the other. But don't stick you finger in. Then. I'll wanna pinky you and put it in your friend's brown, while Silent Bob spanks into a Dixie cup. After that, I'll wanna smell your titties, for a while, and you can pull my nutsack up over my dick, so it looks like a Bullfrog. Then I want you to flick at my nuts while your friend spanks me into the same Dixie cup Silent Bob jizzed in. Then we throw the Dixie cup out.
HOOKER 1: Oh, that's it honey. I quit. This job just passed the point of no You one fucked up puppy, poppie.
HOOKER 2: ( to Jay ) You one fucked up puppy, poppie.
JAY: ( watching them go ) What?! You said 'nasty'? ( shakes his head; to Bob ) Man, chicks in Hollywood are so stuck
JAY: Alright, here's the plan: first, we find out where they're shooting that movie at. After we shut that shit down, we can start looking for the monkey. But before we do any of that shit, we gotta find a motherfucker in the know. Someone who's like, the mayor of Hollywood. Crack? You want some crack? Sweet- ass rock. Get you high.
DEALER: ( subtly ) Crack? You want some crack? Sweet- ass rock. Get you high.
JAY: No man, but you want some weed?
DEALER: ( beat ) You on the job?
JAY: ( pulling out a card ) Yeah, boy. Jersey Local 408.
DEALER: I'm Los Angeles Local 305! You guys got medical in Jersey yet?
DEALER: You guys got medical in Jersey yet?
JAY: Shit, no, we might have to strike in Norma Rae like a motherfucker. You gots to get your benefits, you know what I'm saying?
DEALER: Norma Rae like a motherfucker. You gots to get your benefits, you know what I'm saying?
JAY: I hear that. Yomaybe you can help us out. You know where they're shooting a movie around here.
DEALER: You in this town and you gonna ask that question? Be a little more It's a Miramax flick. We gotta bust it up so people stop calling us names on the Internet, even though they're not really talking about us but these characters based on us, and at the same time, find my ex-girlfriend-who-
JAY: It's a Miramax flick. We gotta bust it up so people stop calling us names on the Internet, even though they're not really talking about us but these characters based on us, and at the same time, find my ex-girlfriend-who-
DEALER: I don't know that the fuck you just said, little kid. But you touched a brother's heart, so I'm gonna help you out with some directions to the You know where Miramax is at?
JAY: You know where Miramax is at?
DEALER: Fuck, yes. Miramax accounts for seventy-eight percent of my business.
STEVE KMETKO: Is Hollywood ready for Jay and Silent Bob? A source at the Federal Wildlife Marshal's Office tells us a posting was pulled off an Internet movie chat board that was allegedly written by the two domestic terrorists themselves. It's sending a shockwave through Hollywood. Jules Asner's on the scene at Miramax Studios, Jules?
JULES ASNER: Steve, the tenor of Tinseltown is one of terror today, after the Federal Wildlife Marshal's Office learned that hot, new terrorists Jay and Silent Bob are targeting Miramax Studios for their next campaign of blood, violence and monkey-theft. In the posting, pulled off Movie Poop Shoot.com, the gruesome twosome threatened, quote "Once we get to Hollywood and find those Miramax Expletive-Deleted who are making the Bluntman and Chronic movie, we're gonna make 'em eat our Expletive-Deleted, then Expletive- Deleted, which is made up of our Expletive-Deleted, then eat their Expletive-Deleted, which is made up of our Expletive-Deleted that we made 'em eat. Unquote. So far, we haven't been able to get a statement from anyone here are the studio.
STEVE: Jules, word has it that Ben Affleck and Matt Damon are on the lot, shooting a super-secret project. Have you seen then roaming around?
JULES: No, Steve. But I did see Casey Affleck buying a soda at a concession stand But no sign of Jay and Silent Bob?
STEVE: But no sign of Jay and Silent Bob?
JULES: None whatsoever. However, to be fair, all the feds have to work with is murky videotape, so no one's even a hundred percent sure what Jay and Silent Bob look like, exactly. For all we know, they could already be on the lot.
JUSTICE: Oh my God! Jay! No!
JUSTICE: Fuck it.
SISSY: That bitch! That fucking, fucking Get dressed. We're going after her.
CHRISSY: Fuck that, I didn't get to cum yet.
SISSY: Which is more important to you: a fortune in diamonds or busting a
CHRISSY: Chrissy races back up the stairs.
JAY: We gotta play this right.
JAY: I hate how fake Hollywood is.
SECURITY GUARD: Where do you think you're going?
JAY: GET OFFA ME! RAAAAAPE!!! This is L.A., sir. We don't rape our suspects in custody. We just beat Echo Base, I've got a ten-o-seven here: two unauthorizeds on the lot. Request back-up.
SECURITY GUARD: This is L.A., sir. We don't rape our suspects in custody. We just beat Echo Base, I've got a ten-o-seven here: two unauthorizeds on the lot. Request back-up.
VOICE: ( from walkie-talkie ) I thought that was a ten-eighty-two.
SECURITY GUARD: No, sira ten-eight-two is the code for vanishing a dead hooker from Ben Affleck's trailer.
VOICE: ( from walkie-talkie ) Oh, that Affleck. Backup on the way.
JAY: Hey! I make you a deal: this guy'll suck your dick off if you let us go!
SECURITY GUARD: Contrary to what you believe, not everyone in the movie business is Well, how about this deal: he sucks my dick while you watch and jerk
JAY: Well, how about this deal: he sucks my dick while you watch and jerk
SECURITY GUARD: Alright. But make is fast. And sexy.
JAY: Dude, it's either this or jail. And you know what they make you do in
JAY: Well what are you waiting for, bitch? Start sucking. Bunnggg! Alrightwhere they shooting this movie at?
JAY: Worth a shot. Like a shot in the mouth, you gay bitch. Eww, dudeyou were really gonna suck my dick.
PHONE VOICE: Federal Bureau of Investigation
WILLENHOLLY: Yes, this is Federal Wildlife Marshal Willenholly. Can I speak with Agent Sid Enmarty, please?
PHONE VOICE: One moment, please.
SPEAKER VOICE: Agent Enmarty? A Marshal Willenholly Holy shit! Yeah, put him through.
AGENT SID: ( perking up ) Holy shit! Yeah, put him through. ( calling off )
AGENT SID: BEGIN CROSS-CUTTING WITH WILLENHOLLY.
WILLENHOLLY: Sid? Hey, buddy. I'm calling because I could really use your help on this killer case I'm working.
AGENT SID: I'll bet, Will. What's it this time. Beaver trouble? Some kind of unauthorized marsupial trafficking?
WILLENHOLLY: ( taking it in stride ) No, nonothing like that. Saythere aren't other people listening in, are there?
AGENT SID: No way, man. It's just me and you talking here.
WILLENHOLLY: Good. I'm tracking a monkey down that's on it's way to Los Angeles, and I could use some bureau backup.
AGENT SID: Los Angeles, hunh? Maybe we should stake out Clint Eastwood's place. Didn't he used to drive around with a monkey that'd punch people and drink beer?
WILLENHOLLY: Am, uhAm I on speaker phone?
AGENT SID: No wayDunston!
WILLENHOLLY: Alright, now that's not fair. I know I didn't make it as high up as you guys, but my job's just as important.
AGENT SID: Calm down, Will. Don't go all. bananas on us!
WILLENHOLLY: I come to you as a friendas a fellow professionaland this is the shit I You're right, Will. Tell you what we'll get our best man on your case right away. You might've heard of him. He's a doctor.
AGENT SID: You're right, Will. Tell you what we'll get our best man on your case right away. You might've heard of him. He's a doctor.
WILLENHOLLY: ( excited ) Oh, a doctor?
AGENT SID: His name's Doctor Zaius!
WILLENHOLLY: SCREW YOU GUYS!
BEN: Where are we taking it from, Gus?
GUS: I'm busy.
BEN: You're a true artist, Gus
MATT: Just take it from "It's a good Oh, now you're the director.
BEN: Oh, now you're the director.
MATT: Hey, shove it. Bounce-boy. Let's remember who talked who into doing this shit in the first place. Talking me into Dogma was one thing, but I'm sorry this is taking you away from whatever-gay-killers-on-horses- flick you're supposed to be doing this week.
BEN: I'm sorry this is taking you away from whatever-gay-killers-on-horses- flick you're supposed to be doing this week.
MATT: OhI'm touchy-feely? I take it you never saw Forces of Nature?
BEN: You're like a child. What've I been telling you? Sometimes you've gotta do the safe picture. Sometimes, you do it for art. Sometimes, it's the payback picture your friend says you owe him
BEN: And sometimes, you go back to the And sometimes, you do Reindeer Games.
MATT: And sometimes, you do Reindeer Games.
BEN: Now that's just mean.
JAY: This has gotta be the Bluntman Flick, 'cause that's those two fucks from that Mork movie! Now all we gotta do is figure out a way to get close to
JAY: ( off A.D.'s comment ) That's pretty funny.
JAY: On the count of three, we rush those fucks and beat the shit out of 'em. 'Cause if they're all fucked up, they can't make the move, right? Alright, then. Onetwo
BEN: Action, Gus?
GUS: Jesus, BenI said I'm busy.
CLARK: You know, I don't doubt that it was. I remember that class. It was just between recess and lunch.
CLARK: There's no problem. I was still just hoping you might give me some insight into the evolution of the market economy in the Southern Colonies. See, Wood says
CLARK: No, I just read Vickers, so I'm up on inherited wealth, Hunting. But you're not the angry, brilliant young mind you once were, just itching to vent your frustrations.
CLARK: Once Sean told you it wasn't your fault, you lost the edge, William. You stopped hitting the books with a vengeance, and now I've read shit you haven't even heard about yet. Face facts, my friendlove made you a soft little pussy boy, unable to stand up to an academic showdown, like you used to. You're just no longer that goodWill Hunting. Now how do you like them apples?
SECURITY GUARD: Sorry to interrupt, sirs, but have a ten-oh-seven on our hands.
BEN: Wait a second! I wasn't with any hookers today!
SECURITY GUARD: THERE THEY ARE!
JAY: Affleck, you're the bomb in Phantoms,
MATT: If anyone's looking for me, I'll be in my trailer trying to figure out how I got here from an Academy Award.
WES CRAVEN: The Killer chases Shannen around the room, falling over stuff, until she hits him with a lamp, knocking him out.
SHANNEN DOHERTY: Alright, you bastard! Let's see who you really are!
SHANNEN DOHERTY: Fucking Miramax
CUT!: Shannen heads over to Wes, holding the mask.
WES CRAVEN: Shannen, usually I say "cut."
SHANNEN DOHERTY: A monkey? Jesus, you guys aren't even trying anymore, are you?
WES CRAVEN: The market research suggest that people love monkeys.
JAY: WE LOVE THIS MONKEY!
WES CRAVEN: Security Guards race through, chasing after the exited pair.
JAY: What the fuck are we gonna do?
JAY: PUNCH IT!!!
PUNCH IT!!!: Bob pops a wheelie and the Bike races up the front of the vehicle, taking flight, Below, the Security Guards stare in awe as Jay and Silent Bob atop the bikewith Suzanne in the front basketgo past a moon ( on a billboard, on the side of a soundstage ) a la E.T. Jay and Bob look down, then at each other. They smile. Then they look ahead and let out a scream. The bike crashes through a window in the side of a Soundstage INT. DRESSING ROOMDAY The Bike lands, and Jay and Bob, and Suzanne go tumbling onto the floor covered in glass. They look up to see. JAMES VAN DER BEEK AND JASON BIGGS dressed as Jay and Silent Bob, looking down as them.
JAMES: Holy shitthat looked like it hurt.
JASON: Are you guys alright? Hey! They've got a monkey!
JAY: Yo, I think that shit just kicked Let's get you guys on your feet. See man? Its never, "Heyyou were in Loser, or, "Dudeyou rocked in Boys and Girls." It always comes back to that fucking pie! I'm haunted by it.!
JAMES: Let's get you guys on your feet. See man? Its never, "Heyyou were in Loser, or, "Dudeyou rocked in Boys and Girls." It always comes back to that fucking pie! I'm haunted by it.!
JAY: ( to James ) See man? Its never, "Heyyou were in Loser, or, "Dudeyou rocked in Boys and Girls." It always comes back to that fucking pie! I'm haunted by it.!
JAMES: Well, you put your dick in a pie, Jason Biggs.
JASON: ( to Jay ) Jason Biggs.
JAY: Yo-you really get to third base with the Russsian chick like you did in the movies?
JASON: You mean Shannon? Sadly, no.
JAY: She's fucking hot, man. If I was you, I'd been like
JAY: ( off James's-look ) What, man? You never did one of these?
JAY: Holy shit? You're the Dawson!
JAMES: It's James, actually. James Van Der Yo, what's up with Pacey stealing Joey away from you? If I was you, I would've drowned his ass in your Creek and shit!
JAY: Yo, what's up with Pacey stealing Joey away from you? If I was you, I would've drowned his ass in your Creek and shit!
JAMES: I know, Because whatis Josh better looking than me? Fuck, no. I mean, who on earth is better looking that me? I ask you.
JAY: Joey, man! She's too fine! Yodid you ever get to third base with her?
JAMES: Well, there was this one time Wait a secondwho are you guys?!
JASON: They're our stunt doubles, dumbass. Stunt doubles for what?
JAY: Stunt doubles for what?
JAMES: The movie we start shooting in a few minutesBluntman and Chronic Strike You're doubling me. I'm playing Bluntman, AKA Silent Bill.
JASON: ( to Bob ) You're doubling me. I'm playing Bluntman, AKA Silent Bill.
JAMES: Right. And he's playing Chronic. AKA Jay! Shit, did you even read the There's a script?
JASON: Right. And he's playing Chronic. AKA Jay! Shit, did you even read the There's a script?
JAMES: Jay! Shit, did you even read the There's a script?
JASON: There's a script?
JAY: These are the guys who are playing us, yo. We take them out, and bickety- bam! No movie.
JASON: ( off Jay and Bob, to James ) What's with the weird, gay huddle going on over there?
JAMES: What's gay about it? It's two guys talking in a corner. Manwhy are you such a homophobe.
JASON: I'm not a homophobe.
JAMES: You are. You're always calling things gay. "Ooolook at the gay huddle,
JASON: Heylook at the monkey.
JAMES: Next you're going to tell me the monkey's gay.
JASON: He's so cute C'mere. Monkey. C'mere
JAY: Alright, here's what we do: start swinging, and don't stop until those young Hollywood fucks are out of commission. Ready? Break!
JAY: That's one funky monkey.
JAY: ( to door; deepening voice ) Uhyeah. They're in here.
SECURITY GUARD: Do they have you hostage? Should we call your publicists?
JAY: NO! I mean, we kicked those guys' asses bad. They'reknocked out.
SECURITY GUARD: Great work, sirs! If you let us in, we'll take over
SECURITY GUARD: Uhokay. We'll just beoutside the door, sirs.
JAY: What the fuck are we gonna do?! How are we gonna get out of here without them seeing us?
JAMES: YOU'VE GOT THE WRONG GUYS! HEY! DON'T YOU RECOGNIZE ME?! I'M THE PIE-FUCKER. He'll be the piein prison.
JASON: HEY! DON'T YOU RECOGNIZE ME?! I'M THE PIE-FUCKER. He'll be the piein prison.
SECURITY GUARD: ( to Cops ) He'll be the piein prison.
JAY: This was a good idea, Lunchbox. In these outfits we're totally incognito.
DIRECTOR: Look at all these crackers, Seventy million dollars and I can't even get a black grip?
DIRECTOR: ( eyes the coffee ) You spit in this? Because I know all you white folks are pissed off that the studio'd entrust a multi- million dollar to a brother.
DIRECTOR: Then taste it! Go on!
DIRECTOR: No it ain't all good. Oh, you think I want it now, after your lips touched the cup? Get the fuck off my set!
DIRECTOR: No you the Man! And that's the
BANKY: Uh, Chaka? Yeah, hiI'm Banky Edwards, the creator of Bluntman and Chronic. We met a few weeks back. I'm the executive producer.
BANKY: Banky. I just wanted you to know that I respect your work as an artist. I'm something of an artist myself. I was the inker on the comic book.
CHAKA: An inker? What, like you trace?
CHAKA: I don't see 'em. Where are they?
JAY: This must've set 'em back a couple hundred bucks.
CHAKA: Look at this shit. A gay hood ornament, and the color Who the fuck are you?
JAY: Who the fuck are you?
CHAKA: Who the fuck am I? I'm the fucking director, is who I am. Chaka Luther King. The creator of all of this.
JAY: Wait a secI thought Holden and Banky created this shit.
CHAKA: And I'm stealing it. I'm taking it back for all the shit you people have stolen from us! Did you know, I came up with the idea for Sesame Street before PBS? I was going to call it N.W.P.Niggaz with Puppets. Alrightenough small talk. Let's shoot it.
JAY: Wait, wait, wait!! Aren't you gonna direct us?
CHAKA: I'll be directing you to the food stamps line after I fire your ass, if you talk back like that to me But we don't know what we're supposed to do here. We didn't even read the So? Neither did I. Shit, neither did the studio. Look man, it's not hard. In this scene, the bad guy breaks into the Bluntcave. You make up some shit, fight him for a while, I film it, I yell "cut," and then head back to my trailer, where I got more white women waiting for me there than the first lifeboat off the Titanic! They all want a part of the movie, and I got just the part for 'em.
JAY: But we don't know what we're supposed to do here. We didn't even read the So? Neither did I. Shit, neither did the studio. Look man, it's not hard. In this scene, the bad guy breaks into the Bluntcave. You make up some shit, fight him for a while, I film it, I yell "cut," and then head back to my trailer, where I got more white women waiting for me there than the first lifeboat off the Titanic! They all want a part of the movie, and I got just the part for 'em.
CHAKA: So? Neither did I. Shit, neither did the studio. Look man, it's not hard. In this scene, the bad guy breaks into the Bluntcave. You make up some shit, fight him for a while, I film it, I yell "cut," and then head back to my trailer, where I got more white women waiting for me there than the first lifeboat off the Titanic! They all want a part of the movie, and I got just the part for 'em.
CHAKA: LET'S ROLL WITH THE NEW! QUIET ON THE SET! THIS IS A TAKE!
CHAKA: Jay and Bob ( as Bluntman and Chronic ) look at each other for a beat. Then
ACTION!: Jay and Bob ( as Bluntman and Chronic ) look at each other for a beat. Then
CHAKA: ( from behind monitor ) Damn! Now that was one special effect! This picture's gonna make House Party look like House Party Two!
CHAKA: Shut the fuck up!
JAY: Call me Darth Balls. Bunngg. I think George Lucas is going to sue
CHAKA: ( from behind the monitor ) I think George Lucas is going to sue
WILLENHOLLY: ( looking around ) So, this is Hollywood? ( suddenly full of purpose ) Lights, camera, action, Jay and Silent
WILLENHOLLY: FREEZE YOU TERRORIST SONSABITCHES!!!
WILLENHOLLY: Oh my God Umsorry. That was supposed to be a warning shot. Uhit looks like I'm on the wrong, uhwrong set.
KID: You killed Mooby
"CUT"!: On cue, Jay delivers a kill-shot to one of Cock-Knocker's huge fists, cutting it off ( a la Empire ). Silent Bob joins Jay, as Jay turns off this double-Bong Saber, Jay grins at Cock-Knocker.
JAY: Now whose balls have been busted,
WILLENHOLLY: The C.L.I.T. stops here, Jay and Silent Bob! Everyone stay calm. I'm a Federal Wildlife Marshal. These men are the leaders of a terrorist organization wanted for the abduction of a monkey.
JUSTICE: It was just a diversion so we could steal these. And they're not the leaders of C.L.I.T. The C.L.I.T. is not real.
JUSTICE: And they're not the leaders of C.L.I.T. The C.L.I.T. is not real.
WILLENHOLLY: Nothe clit's real. The female orgasm is a myth.
JUSTICE: ( to Jay ) Are you guys alright?
JAY: I thought you blew up, Boo Boo Kitty You remembered. It was a frame-up, Jay. Sissy. Missy, Chrissy, and I are international jewel thieves. We were setting you up as a patsy, but I couldn't go through with it, because I. because I love you.
JUSTICE: ( smiling ) You remembered. ( back to business ) It was a frame-up, Jay. Sissy. Missy, Chrissy, and I are international jewel thieves. We were setting you up as a patsy, but I couldn't go through with it, because I. because I love you.
JAY: Yeah? So that means you'll fuck me, If she does, it'll be considered
SISSY: Because she's gonna be one dead bitch. Hi, Jussy. We catch you at a bad You should've just let these guys go down, Jussy.
MISSY: You should've just let these guys go down, Jussy.
JAY: Hey, I wanted to go down, but I was waiting until I got to know her a little better. See, there was this little angel on my shoulder, and he Shut the fuck up before I shoot you where you stand in your pansy red Holy shit, I am wearing pansy red Manwhy the fuck didn't you tell Let's have those diamonds, Jussy.
CHRISSY: Shut the fuck up before I shoot you where you stand in your pansy red Holy shit, I am wearing pansy red Manwhy the fuck didn't you tell Let's have those diamonds, Jussy.
JAY: ( looking down ) Holy shit, I am wearing pansy red ( to Bob ) Manwhy the fuck didn't you tell Let's have those diamonds, Jussy.
SISSY: Let's have those diamonds, Jussy.
JUSTICE: I can't do that, Sissy
SISSY: ( points her gun at Jay ) Then loverboy gets one in the brain.
CHAKA: All turn to look at Chaka.
YO!: All turn to look at Chaka.
CHAKA: Would any of you lovely ladies like a private audition to be in my movie?
WILLENHOLLY: WHY ARE YOU SHOOTING AT ME?!?! I'M JUST A FEDERAL WILDLIFE MARSHAL!!! TWO REASONS: ONEWE'RE WALKING, TALKING BAD GIRLS, CLICHES! AND TWO: BECAUSE YOU'RE A MAN. ONLY ON THE OUTSIDE!
CHRISSY: TWO REASONS: ONEWE'RE WALKING, TALKING BAD GIRLS, CLICHES! AND TWO: BECAUSE YOU'RE A MAN. ONLY ON THE OUTSIDE!
MISSY: AND TWO: BECAUSE YOU'RE A MAN. ONLY ON THE OUTSIDE!
WILLENHOLLY: ONLY ON THE OUTSIDE!
CHAKA: A shitload of white people with guns? Time to get my black ass out of here!
SISSY: You really let me down, Justice. Throwing it all away for a little stoner with bad pronunciation.
HEY!: ( ignoring him ) What's it gonna be, Sissy? Which fighting style do you want me to kick your ass in?
JUSTICE: ( ignoring him ) What's it gonna be, Sissy? Which fighting style do you want me to kick your ass in?
SISSY: Are you kidding me? I taught you all all your moves myself. There's not a style you can bust that I can't defend You're no match for my "Shaolin Monk."
JUSTICE: You're no match for my "Shaolin Monk."
SISSY: Yeah, but I can bury you with my "Crouching Tiger."
JUSTICE: A little "Venus'sflytrap"?
SISSY: I'll counter with "Dragon Crane."
JUSTICE: How about a little "Bitch, My Man Ain't Yo Baby's Daddy"?
SISSY: ( beat; smiles ) Bring it on.
JAY: YoI hope one of 'em rips the other one's shirt off and we see some tit.
BANKY: Mister Biggs? Mister Van Der Beek? I just wanted to say hi. I'm
JAY: Banky fucking Edwards! Just the motherfucker we came to see!
BANKY: ( shocked ) Holy shit! What the fuck are you guys doing here?!
BANKY: Stop the movie?! Are you crazy?!
JAY: All these assholes are calling us names on the Internet, 'cause of this stupid movie!
BANKY: I feel for you boysI really do. Those Net snipers can be really cruel. But Miramax paid me a shitload of money for Bluntman and Chronic, so it occurs to me that people bad- mouthing you on some web-site is none of my FUCKING CONCERN!
SILENT BOB: Ohbut I think it is.
JAY: Here we go again
SILENT BOB: Shut the fuck up. We had a deal with you on the comics for likeness rights. And as we're not only the artistic basis but also the character basis for your intellectual property, Bluntman and Chronic, when we said property was optioned by Miramax Films you were legally obliged to secure our permission to transfer the concept to another medium. As you failed to do that, you're in breach of the original contractergo, you find yourself in a very actionable
JAY: Justice now has the advantage over Sissy, holding her head and kicking her in the face, repeatedly, screaming.
BANKY: So, what do you guys want, to go away and take your lady friends with Shitcan this movie so we don't get called names on the Internet anymore.
JAY: Shitcan this movie so we don't get called names on the Internet anymore.
BANKY: Even if there's no movie, people are still free to talk shit about you on the Internet. That's what the Internet's for: slandering others anonymously. Stopping the flick isn't going to stop that! Well this isn't fair! We went to Hollywood, I fell in love, we stole a monkey, we got shot at, and got punched in the motherfucking nuts! We ain't leaving empty-handed!
JAY: Well this isn't fair! We went to Hollywood, I fell in love, we stole a monkey, we got shot at, and got punched in the motherfucking nuts! We ain't leaving empty-handed!
JAY: What's up baby? You look good!
BANKY: Isn't that your girlfriend's enemy?
JAY: Oh yeah. Get the fuck offa me, pig!
BANKY: You guys are gonna ruin my movie Well, we want something for our mental Tell you what: we'll settle this monetarily. I'll give you half of what I made.
JAY: Well, we want something for our mental Tell you what: we'll settle this monetarily. I'll give you half of what I made.
BANKY: Tell you what: we'll settle this monetarily. I'll give you half of what I made.
JAY: Half's not good enough? FineI'll give you two-thirds of what I made!
BANKY: Half's not good enough? FineI'll give you two-thirds of what I made!
JAY: Fuck-youyou already said half? You can't take it back!
BANKY: Justice throws Sissy off, onto the floor. Both get up, facing each other.
SISSY: Your shit is so tired, Justice!
JUSTICE: Call me Boo-Boo Kitty FuckBITCH!
WILLENHOLLY: Hello? Truce? I think I killed both of them.
JUSTICE: C'mon guys. It's over.
JAY: Yo, I was just about to jump in there and get your back.
JAY: Holy shit, the cops! We gotta get out of here!
JUSTICE: No. I'm tired of running.
JUSTICE: You awake, Marshal? Marshal?
WILLENHOLLY: ( tries to move but can't ) Oh my God, I'm paralyzed. The monkey shot me in the ass and paralyzed me! Oh the irony!
JUSTICE: ( off Suzanne's gun ) You're not paralyzed. It was just a Jesus! Tranqued by a little monkey! My friends in the Bureau are never gonna let me live this down!
WILLENHOLLY: Jesus! Tranqued by a little monkey! My friends in the Bureau are never gonna let me live this down!
JUSTICE: You have friends in the F.B.I.?
WILLENHOLLY: ( crying ) They all made it in, but I failed the exam. Why the hell else do you think I became a Federal Wildlife Marshal? 'Cause I'm a joke! Maybe not. I can make you a deal that'll get you into the F.B.I., regardless of test scores.
JUSTICE: Maybe not. I can make you a deal that'll get you into the F.B.I., regardless of test scores.
WILLENHOLLY: What kind of deal?
JUSTICE: You drop the charges against Jay and Silent Bob and say you never found the ape. Make sure the world knows they're not in control of any C.L.I.T.
JAY: Now wait a second
JUSTICE: I'll explain later, Jay In exchange, I'll give you the diamonds I stole, and turn in Sissy, Missy, Chrissy, and myself. But I want a reduced sentence.
WILLENHOLLY: You'd be willing to do that?
JUSTICE: ( off Jay ) For him? I'd be willing to do
JUSTICE: I'm an international jewel thief who's facing a jail sentence.
JAY: That's alright. I'm a junkie with a If I go to prison, will you wait for I don't know. Will we fuck when you get out?
JUSTICE: If I go to prison, will you wait for I don't know. Will we fuck when you get out?
JAY: I don't know. Will we fuck when you get out?
JAY: Don't change the subject. Will we fuck when you get out?
JUSTICE: Justice and Jay kiss again. Suzanne reached up to Silent Bob, who picks her up. She grabs his face and kisses him. Willenholly looks to Banky.
WILLENHOLLY: Wow. There's a lot of love in the Regardless of what you may have heard. I do not kiss guys.
BANKY: Regardless of what you may have heard. I do not kiss guys.
WILLENHOLLY: Sorry, Justice. We've gotta go. Heystop stealing monkeys.
JAY: Fuck you.
WILLENHOLLY: Fair enough. Wait for me.
JUSTICE: ( to Jay ) Wait for me.
JAY: Jay looks at Justice, confused, as the Cruiser pulls away, leaving Jay, Bob, Suzanne, and Banky. They start walking down the lot.
BANKY: Well, boysyou're rich in love Well, you're in love. And to top that off, you've got your own monkey. What more could two guys from Jersey possibly want?
JAY: All those fucks to stop talking shit about us on the Internet, for What do I keep telling you? There's not much you can do to stop that. Well, short of showing up at all their houses and beating the shit out of them, I guess. You knowwith all that money we're gonna make we can buy a lotta plane
BANKY: What do I keep telling you? There's not much you can do to stop that. Well, short of showing up at all their houses and beating the shit out of them, I guess. You knowwith all that money we're gonna make we can buy a lotta plane
JAY: ( to Bob ) You knowwith all that money we're gonna make we can buy a lotta plane
MOTHER: Can I help you?
JAY: Yes. Ma'am, Does William Dusky live here?
MOTHER: Yes. He's my son.
JAY: May we talk to him, please.
MOTHER: One moment.
KID: Yodo you post as Magnolia-Fan on Movie Poop Shoot.com?
JAY: Yodo you post as Magnolia-Fan on Movie Poop Shoot.com?
KID: And did you write "Fuck Jay and Silent Bob. Fuck them up their stupid asses?
JAY: And did you write "Fuck Jay and Silent Bob. Fuck them up their stupid asses?
KID: Yeah, a while ago. So? On Movie Poop Shoot.com. did you say Jay and Silent Bob "are fucking clown shoes. If they were real, I'd beat the shit out of them for being so stupid."
JAY: On Movie Poop Shoot.com. did you say Jay and Silent Bob "are fucking clown shoes. If they were real, I'd beat the shit out of them for being so stupid."
KID: ( chuckling )
JAY: Again, Jay and Bob pull the Kid outside and beat the shit out of him.
WORLD PREMIERE!: The front doors open and the CROWD lets out. First we see DANTE and RANDAL.
RANDAL: Now that was worse then Clash of the I still can't believe Judy Dench played me.
DANTE: I still can't believe Judy Dench played me.
RANDAL: Heyremind me to renew that restraining order.
DANTE: Because I'm gonna blast the flick on the Internet tonight.
RANDAL: Because I'm gonna blast the flick on the Internet tonight.
WALT: Tell'em Steve-Dave!
TRISH: Well, that was just another paean to male adolescence and its refusal to grow up.
ALYSSA: Yeah, sisbut it was better than Mallrats. At least Holden had the good sense to keep his name off of Why wouldn't Miramax option his other comic instead? You knowthe one he drew about you and him and your You mean Chasing Amy? That would never work as a movie.
TRISH: Why wouldn't Miramax option his other comic instead? You knowthe one he drew about you and him and your You mean Chasing Amy? That would never work as a movie.
ALYSSA: You mean Chasing Amy? That would never work as a movie.
BANKY: I'm so fucking embarrassed
HOOPER: Honey, you should be. They took your characters and reduced them to one ninety-minute-long-gay joke. It was like watching Batman and Robin again.
BANKY: Thanks. That means a lot coming from the guy who pretends to be Shaft as opposed to the guy who takes shaft.
HOOPER: I don't hear you complaining nightly. In fact, the only thing I do hear you say is "Yes, Hooper! Cradle the balls and work the shaft!"
BANKY: ( looking around ) Hey! Hey! What'd we say? Not in
GUY: Nice movie, you fucking Tracer!
BANKY: ( recognizing him ) That's right, you sonovabitch! I'm back for round two!
GUY: That's right, you sonovabitch! I'm back for round two!
WILLENHOLLY: You know, I don't get out to the movies much. But I'd have to say Bluntman and Chronic was Blunt-tastic!
JUSTICE: Are these leg cuffs really necessary?
WILLENHOLLY: Don't make me shoot you, Justice.
JAY: YO! THE PARTY'S ACROSS THE STREET, FEATURING THE GREATEST BAND IN THE WORLD: MORRIS DAY AND THE TIME!!!
CODA: Bluntman and Chronic Strike Back went on to make a mere 2.3 million at the box office. It was the biggest commercial failure in the history of Miramax films. The film was roundly drubbed as a bad idea by the denizens of the Internet chat boards, and over the course of the next year, while they waited for the Quick Stop restraining order to expire, Jay and Silent Bob tracked them all down and beat the shit out of them.
CREDITS. THEN: INT. NOWHERE A familiar WOMAN closes a book that's marked: THE VIEW ASKEWNIVERSE. She puts the book down, smiles at us and skips THE END
THE END: Writers : Kevin Smith
