FADE IN: Credits run in counterpoint through a 7 to 10 minute sequence of documentary images setting the tone of John F. Kennedy's Presidency and the atmosphere of those tense times, 1960 through 1963. An omniscient narrator's voice marches us through in old time Pathe' newsreel fashion.
VOICE: January, 1961 - President Dwight D. Eisenhower's Farewell Address to the Nation -
EISENHOWER ADDRESS: The conjunction of an immense military establishment and a large arms industry is new in the American experience. The total influence - economic, political, even spiritual - is felt in every city, every statehouse, every office of the Federal Government. In the councils of government we must guard against the acquisition of unwarranted influence, whether sought or unsought, by the military industrial complex. The potential for the disastrous rise of misplaced power exists and will persist. We must never let the weight of this combination endanger our liberties or democratic processes. We should take nothing for granted.
EISENHOWER: The conjunction of an immense military establishment and a large arms industry is new in the American experience. The total influence - economic, political, even spiritual - is felt in every city, every statehouse, every office of the Federal Government. In the councils of government we must guard against the acquisition of unwarranted influence, whether sought or unsought, by the military industrial complex. The potential for the disastrous rise of misplaced power exists and will persist. We must never let the weight of this combination endanger our liberties or democratic processes. We should take nothing for granted.
ELECTION IMAGERY: School kids reciting the Pledge of Allegiance. WPA films of farmers harvesting the Texas plains. Rain, thunderheads, a dusty car coming from far away on a road moving towards Dallas. Cowboys round up the cattle. Young marrieds in a church. Hillsides of tract homes going up. The American breadbasket, the West. Over this we hear Eisenhower's address. As we move into the election campaign of 1960, we see the TV debates, Nixon vs. Kennedy, Mayor Daley, Kennedy Against this is juxtaposed other forces: segregation, J. Edgar Hoover, military advisors, Castro, Marilyn Monroe, Lumumba. three frames of the Zapruder film counter-cut. ending with the Kennedy inauguration and the irony of Earl Warren administering the oath as he will Kennedy's eulogy.
VOICE 2: November, 1960 - Senator John F. Kennedy of Massachusetts wins one of the narrowest election victories in American history over the Vice- President Richard Nixon by a little more than 100,000 votes. Rumors abound that he stole the election in Illinois through the Democratic political machine of Mayor Daley. At his inauguration, at a time when American males all wore hats, he let his hair blow free in the wind. Alongside his beautiful and elegant wife of French origin, Jacqueline Bouvier, J.F.K. is the symbol of the new freedom of the 1960's, signifying change and upheaval to the American public, scaring many and hated passionately by some. To win the election and to appease their fears, Kennedy at first takes a tough Cold War stance.
VOICE 3: He inherits a secret war against the Communist Castro dictatorship in Cuba, a war run by the CIA and angry Cuban exiles out of bases in the Southern United States, Panama, Nicaragua and Guatemala. Castro is a successful revolutionary frightening to American business interests in Latin America - companies like Cabot's United Fruit, Continental Can, and Rockefeller's Standard Oil. This war culminates in the disastrous Bay of Pigs invasion in April 1961, when Kennedy refuses to provide air cover for the exile brigade. Of the 1600 men who invade, 114 are killed, 1200 are captured. The Cuban exiles and the CIA are furious at Kennedy's irresolution. Kennedy, taking public responsibility for the failure, privately claims the CIA lied to him and tried to manipulate him into ordering an all-out American invasion of Cuba. He vows to splinter the CIA into a thousand pieces and fires Director Allen Dulles, Deputies Charles Cabell and Richard Bissell, the top leadership of the Agency.
VOICE 4: The CIA, however, continues it's secret war on Castro with dozens of sabotage and assassination attempts under it's ZR/RIFLE and MONGOOSE programs - The Agency collaborates with organized crime elements such as John Roselli, Sam Giancana, and Santos Trafficante of Tampa, whose casino operations in Cuba, worth more than a hundred million dollars a year in income, Castro has shut
VOICE 5: In October 1962, the world comes to the brink of nuclear war when Kennedy quarantines Cuba after announcing the presence of offensive Soviet nuclear missiles 90 miles off American shores. The Joint Chiefs of Staff and the CIA call for an invasion. Kennedy refuses. Soviet ships with more missiles sail towards the island, but at the last moment turn back. The world breathes with relief but backstage in Washington, rumors abound that J.F.K. has cut a secret deal with Russian Premier Khrushchev not to invade Cuba in return for a Russian withdrawal of missiles. Suspicions abound that Kennedy is "soft on
VOICE 6: In the ensuing months, Kennedy clamps down on Cuban exile activities, closing training camps, restricting covert operations, prohibiting shipment of weapons out of the country. The covert arm of the CIA nevertheless continues its plan to assassinate Castor. In March '63, Kennedy announces drastic cuts in the defense budget. In November 1963, he orders the withdrawal by Christmas of the first 1000 troops of the 16,000 stationed in Vietnam. He tells several of his intimates that he will withdraw all Vietnam troops after the '64 election, saying to the Assistant Secretary of State, Roger Hilsman, "The Bay of Pigs has taught me one, not to trust generals or the CIA, and two, that if the American people do not want to use American troops to remove a Communist regime 90 miles from our coast, how can I ask them to use troops to remove a Communist regime 9,000 miles away?". Finally, in August 1963, over the objections of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the United States, Great Britain and the Soviet Union sign a treaty banning nuclear bomb tests in the atmosphere, underwater and in space. Early that fateful summer, Kennedy speaks of his new vision at American University in What kind of peace do we seek? Not a pax Americana enforced on the world by American weapons of war. We must re-examine our own attitudes towards the Soviet Union. If we cannot now end our differences at least we can help make the world safe for diversity. For, in the final analysis, our most basic link is that we all inhabit this small planet. We all breathe the same air. We all cherish our children's future. And we are all mortal.
JFK: What kind of peace do we seek? Not a pax Americana enforced on the world by American weapons of war. We must re-examine our own attitudes towards the Soviet Union. If we cannot now end our differences at least we can help make the world safe for diversity. For, in the final analysis, our most basic link is that we all inhabit this small planet. We all breathe the same air. We all cherish our children's future. And we are all mortal.
ROSE: They're going up to Dallas. to whack Kennedy. Friday the 22nd, that's when they're going to do it. In Dealey Plaza. They're gonna whack him! You gotta call somebody, these are serious fuckin' guys.
DOCTOR: ( to the police officer ) Higher'n a kite on something. Been like this since she came in.
VOICE 7: More rumors emerge of J.F.K.'s backdoor efforts outside usual State Department and CIA channels to establish dialogue with Fidel Castro through contacts at the United Nations in New York. Kennedy is seeking change on all fronts. Bitter battles are fought with Southern segregationists to get James Meredith into the University of Mississippi. Three months after Kennedy submits a sweeping civil rights bill to Congress, Martin Luther King leads 250,000 in a march on Washington. Robert Kennedy, as Attorney General, for the first time ever vigorously prosecutes the Mafia in American life, bringing and winning a record number of cases - 288 convictions of organized crime figures including 13 grand juries against Jimmy Hoffa and his Teamsters Union. The President also takes on Big Business, forcing back steel prices, winning 45 of 46 antitrust cases during 1963 and he wants to help everyday taxpayers by ending age- old business privileges like the oil depletion allowance and the fees paid to the Federal Reserve Bank for printing America's currency. Revolutionary changes are foreseen after J.F.K.'s assumed re-election in 1964. Foremost in the political consciousness of the country is the possibility of a Kennedy dynasty. Robert Kennedy in '68, Teddy Kennedy in '76. In November, 1963 John Kennedy travels to Texas, his popularity sagging to 59% largely due to his civil rights stand for which he is particularly hated in the South. Texas is a crucial state for him to carry in '64. With him is Vice-President, Lyndon Johnson and Texas Governor John Connally. On November 21, they visit Houston and San Antonio. On the morning of November 22, he speaks in Fort Worth, then flies 15 minutes to Love Field in Dallas, where he takes a motorcade through downtown Dallas on his way to speak at 12:30 at the International Trade Mart. Later, the motorcade takes him through Dealey Plaza at
AMBULANCE VOICE: We are en route to Parkland.
VOICE: We'll be there in about five minutes.
JACKIE KENNEDY: ( voice restaged ) And in the motorcade, you know I usually would be waving mostly to the left side and he was waving mostly to the right, which is one reason you're not looking at each other very much. And it was terribly hot. Just blinding all of us. We could see a tunnel in front of us. Everything was really slow then. And I remember thinking it would be so cool under that tunnel. Mr. President, you can't say that Dallas doesn't love you.
CBS BULLETIN: ( full screen ) We interrupt this program to bring you this flash bulletin. A burst of gunfire! Three bursts of gunfire, apparently from automatic weapons, were fired at President Kennedy's motorcade in downtown Dallas.
VOICES: OH NO! MY GOD THEY'RE GOING TO KILL US ALL! Be still. You're going to be all right. LET'S GET OUT OF HERE.
VOICES: ( blending under )
JIM: What's wrong, Lou?
LOU: Boss, the President's been shot. In Dallas. Five minutes ago. Oh no!. How bad?
JIM: Oh no!. How bad?
LOU: No word yet. But they think it's in the head.
JIM: Come on. Napoleon's has a TV set.
NEWSMAN 1: Apparently three bullets were found. Governor Connally also appeared to be hit. The President was rushed by the Secret Service to Parkland Memorial Hospital four miles from Dealey Plaza.
JIM: There's still a chance, dammit! Come on, Jack - pull through.
MANAGER: ( Italian, distracted ) I don't believe it. I don't believe it. Here, in this country.
WALTER CRONKITE: From Dallas, Texas - the flash apparently official, President Kennedy died at 1 p.m. Central Standard Time, 2 o'clock Eastern Standard Time, some 38 minutes ago. Vice-President Johnson has left the hospital in Dallas, but we do not know to where he has proceeded. Presumably, he will be taking the oath of office shortly, and become the 36th President of the United
JIM: I didn't always agree with him - too liberal for my tastes - but I respected him. He had style. God, I'm ashamed to be an American today.
NEWSMAN 2: Many arrests have been made here today. Anyone looking even remotely suspicious is being detained. Most of the crowd has gone home but there are still many stunned people wandering around in Dealey Plaza unable to comprehend what happened here earlier today.
BLACK WOMAN: ( crying ) It's all so terrible. I jes' can't stop crying. He did so much for this country, for colored people. ( Bill Newman, with wife and kids ) I grabbed my kids and wife and hit the ground. The bullets were coming over our heads - from that fence back on the knoll - I was just so shaken. I saw his face when it hit. he just, his ear flew off, he turned just real white and then went stiff like a board and flopped over on his stomach, with his foot sticking out.
MAN: ( Bill Newman, with wife and kids ) I grabbed my kids and wife and hit the ground. The bullets were coming over our heads - from that fence back on the knoll - I was just so shaken. I saw his face when it hit. he just, his ear flew off, he turned just real white and then went stiff like a board and flopped over on his stomach, with his foot sticking out.
WOMAN 2: I thought. it came from up there, that building.
MAN 2: I heard shots from over there.
NEWSMAN 2: How many shots?
WOMAN 3: About 3 to 4. I don't know.
MAN 3: I never thought it could happen in
BANISTER: All this blubbering over that sonofabitch! They're grieving like they knew the man. It makes me want to puke.
MARTIN: God's sake, chief. The President was shot.
BANISTER: A bullshit President! I don't see any weeping for all the thousands of Cubans that bastard condemned to death and torture at the Bay of Pigs. Where are all the tears for the Russians and Hungarians and Chinese living like slaves in prison camps run by Kennedy's communist buddies - All these damned peace treaties! I'm telling ya Jack, that's what happens when you let the niggers vote. They get together with the Jews and the Catholics and elect an Irish bleeding heart.
MARTIN: Chief, maybe you had a little too much to drink.
BANISTER: ( yells across the room ) Bartender, another round. ( finishes drink ) Here's to the New Frontier. Camelot in smithereens. I'll drink to that.
NEWSMAN 3: This is the rifle, it is a Mannlicher - Carcano Italian rifle, a powerful World War II military gun used by infantry and highly accurate at distances of 100 yards.
NEWSMAN 3: The assassin apparently fired from this perch. but so far no word, much confusion and.
NEWSMAN 4: A flash bulletin. the Dallas Police have just announced they have a suspect in the killing of a Dallas police officer, J.D. Tippit, who was shot at 1:15 in Oak Cliff, a suburb of Dallas.
NEWSMAN 4: The suspect, identified as Lee Harvey Oswald, was arrested by more than a dozen police officers after a short scuffle at the Texas movie theatre in Oak Cliff, several blocks from where Officer Tippit was killed, apparently with a .38 revolver found on Oswald. There is apparently at least one eyewitness.
TV OSWALD: No, I don't know what I'm charged with. I don't know what dispatches you people have been given, but I emphatically deny these charges.
LOU: One little guy with a cheap rifle - look what he can do.
JIM: Let's get outta here, Lou. I saw too much stuff like this in the war.
BANISTER: Well, the kid musta gone nuts, right? I said Oswald must've flipped. Just did this crazy thing before anyone could stop him, right?
MARTIN: I think I'll cut out here, chief. I gotta get home.
BANISTER: ( strong-arms Martin ) Get home my ass. We're going to the office, have another drink. I want some company tonight.
BANISTER: ( repetitive ) Who'd ever thought that goofy Oswald kid would pull off a stunt like an ( Martin waits ) Just goes to show, you can never know about some people. Am I right, ( Martin, frightened now, doesn't reply ) Well, bless my soul. Your eyes are as red as two cherries, Jack. Don't tell me we have another bleeding heart here. Hell, all these years I thought you were on my side.
MARTIN: Chief, sometimes I don't know whether you're kidding or not.
BANISTER: I couldn't be more serious, Jack. Those big red eyes have me wondering about your loyalty. Who the hell opened my files! You've been looking through my private files, haven't you, you weasel?
BANISTER: Who the hell opened my files! You've been looking through my private files, haven't you, you weasel?
MARTIN: You may not like this, chief, but you're beginning to act paranoid. I mean, you really are.
BANISTER: You found out about Dave Ferrie going to Texas today and you went through all my files to see what was going on. You're a goddamn spy.
MARTIN: ( angry ) Goddammit chief, why would I ever need to look in your files? I saw enough here this summer to write a I always lock my files. And you were the only one here today. ( stops as he hears Martin ) What do you mean, you son of a bitch?
BANISTER: I always lock my files. And you were the only one here today. What do you mean, you son of a bitch?
MARTIN: You know what I mean. I saw a lot of strange things going on in this office this summer. And a lotta strange people.
BANISTER: You didn't see a goddamn thing, you little weasel. Do you get it? You didn't see a goddamn thing.
NEWSMAN 5: ( over the din ) Did you shoot the President?
TV OSWALD: I didn't shoot anybody, no sir. I'm just a patsy.
LIZ: My god, he sure looks like a creep. What's he talkin' 'bout. a patsy? Well, I was questioned by a judge. However, I protested at the time that I was not allowed legal representation during that very short and sweet hearing. Uh, I really don't know what the situation is about. Nobody has told me anything except that I am accused of, uh, murdering a policeman. I know nothing more than that and I do request that someone come forward to give me, uh, legal assistance.
TV OSWALD: Well, I was questioned by a judge. However, I protested at the time that I was not allowed legal representation during that very short and sweet hearing. Uh, I really don't know what the situation is about. Nobody has told me anything except that I am accused of, uh, murdering a policeman. I know nothing more than that and I do request that someone come forward to give me, uh, legal assistance.
NEWSMAN 5: Did you kill the President?
TV OSWALD: No. I have not been charged with that. In fact nobody has said that to me yet. The first thing I heard about it was when the newspaper reporters in the hall, uh, asked me that question.
NEWSMAN 6: You have been charged.
TV OSWALD: NEWSMAN 6
NEWSMAN 6: You have been charged.
NEWSMAN 5: Were you ever in the Free Cuba Movement or whatever the.
RUBY: ( a voice in the back ) It was the Fair Play for Cuba
NEWSMAN 6: What did you do in Russia? What happened to your eye?
TV OSWALD: A policeman hit me.
GARRISON: He seems pretty cool to me for a man under pressure like that.
LIZ: Icy, you mean. He gives me the willies. come on sugarplums, it's past your bedtimes. Come on, let's go upstairs. Mattie - get ahold of yourself.
MATTIE: Why, Mr. Jim? He was a great man, Mr. Jim, a great man. There is no one else but him. He has been charged in the Supreme Court with murder with malice. We're gonna ask for the death penalty.
TV WADE: There is no one else but him. He has been charged in the Supreme Court with murder with malice. We're gonna ask for the death penalty.
FRANK: ( Newsman 7 ) So several hours after the assassination, a disturbed portrait is emerging of Lee Harvey Oswald. Described as shy and introverted, he spent much of his childhood in New Orleans, Louisiana and went to high school there. After a stint in the Marines, he apparently became fascinated by Communism and in 1959 defected to the Soviet Union.
BOB: ( Newsman 8 ) He married a Russian woman there, Frank, had a child, and then returned to the United States after 30 months. But he is still believed to be a dedicated Marxist and a fanatical supporter of Fidel Castro and ultra left wing causes. He spent last summer in New Orleans and was arrested in a brawl with anti-Castro Cuban ( Newsman 7 ) And apparently, Bob, Oswald had been passing out pro-Castro pamphlets for an organization called Fair Play for Cuba, a Communist front he reportedly belongs to.
FRANK: ( Newsman 7 ) And apparently, Bob, Oswald had been passing out pro-Castro pamphlets for an organization called Fair Play for Cuba, a Communist front he reportedly belongs to.
BOB: ( Newsman 8 ) And we have Marina Oswald, his Russian- born wife, who has identified the rifle found in the Book Depository as belonging to her husband. And we
JIM: ( on the phone ) Lou, I'm sorry to disturb you this late. yeah, matter of routine but we better get on this New Orleans connection of Oswald's right away. Check out his record, find any friends or associates from last summer. Let's meet with the senior assistants and investigators day after tomorrow, Sunday, yeah, at 11. Thanks Lou.
MARINA OSWALD: ( on TV ) Lee good man. he not shoot anyone.
LOU: As far as Oswald's associates, boss, the one name that keeps popping up is David Ferrie.
JIM: I know David - a strange character.
LOU: He's been in trouble before. Used to be a hot shot pilot for Eastern Airlines, but he got canned after an alleged homosexual incident with a 14-year old boy.
BILL: ( on phone, excited ) Get Kohlman. he told somebody the Texas trip. yesterday mentioned to somebody about Ferrie. find it
NEWSMAN 1: These backyard photos were found yesterday among Oswald's possessions in the garage of Janet William's home in Riving, Texas, where Marina Oswald and her children are living. The picture apparently was taken earlier this year. Police say the rifle, a cheap World War II Italian- made Mannlicher-Carcano, was ordered from a Chicago mailing house and shipped to Oswald's alias A. Hidell at a post office box in March, 1963. This is the same rifle that was used to assassinate the President. That ties it up.
COX: That ties it up.
NUMA: Another nut. Jesus, anybody can get a rifle in Texas.
BILL: ( hangs up ) So it seems that Dave Ferrie drove off on a Friday afternoon for Texas - a source told Kohlman he might have been a getaway pilot for Oswald.
JIM: Hold your horses. What kinda source?
BILL: ( grins ) The anonymous kind, Chief.
OSER: I think I remember this guy Ferrie speaking at a meeting of some veteran's group. Ranting against Castro. Extreme stuff.
NEWSMAN 1: We go back now to the basement of police headquarters where they're about to transfer Oswald to County
ANNOUNCER: He's been shot! Oswald's been shot!
VARIOUS VOICES: Goddamn! Look at that. Look at that. I don't believe this. Right on TV! What is going on? Who is this guy. oh Jesus.
LOU: Seventy cops in that basement. What the hell were they doing?
NEWSMAN 1: Jack Ruby. Who is Jack Ruby? Oswald is hurt.
LOU: Well, no trial now. Looks like somebody saved the Dallas D.A. a pile of work.
JIM: ( quietly ) Well, let's get Ferrie in here anyway.
LOU: Chief. David Ferrie.
JIM: ( shakes hands ) Come in, Dave. Have a seat, make yourself comfortable. Coffee?
FERRIE: Do you remember me, Mr. Garrison? I met you on Carondolet Street right after your election. I congratulated you, remember?
JIM: How could I forget? You make quite a first impression. Sharon, could you please bring us some coffee? I've heard over the years you're quite a first-rate pilot, Dave. Legend has it you can get in and out of any field, no matter how small. I'm a bit of a pilot myself, you know. Flew grasshoppers for the field artillery in the war.
FERRIE: Do you mind if I smoke, Mr. Garrison?
JIM: ( holds up his pipe ) How could I? Dave, as you know, President Kennedy was assassinated on Friday. A man named Lee Harvey Oswald was arrested as a suspect and then was murdered yesterday by a man named Jack Ruby. ( on each name, watching Ferrie's reaction ) We've heard reports that Oswald spent the summer in New Orleans and we've been advised you knew Oswald pretty That's not true. I never met anybody named Oswald. Anybody who told you that has to be crazy.
FERRIE: That's not true. I never met anybody named Oswald. Anybody who told you that has to be crazy.
JIM: But you are aware, he served in your Civil Air Patrol unit when he was a No. if he did, I don't remember him. There were lots of kids in and out. y'know.
FERRIE: No. if he did, I don't remember him. There were lots of kids in and out. y'know.
JIM: ( hands him a current newspaper ) I'm sure you've seen this. Perhaps you knew this man under another name?
FERRIE: No, I never saw him before in my Well that must've been mistaken information we got. Thanks for straightening it out for us. There is one other matter that's come up, Dave. We were told you took a trip to Texas shortly after the assassination of Friday.
JIM: Well that must've been mistaken information we got. Thanks for straightening it out for us. There is one other matter that's come up, Dave. We were told you took a trip to Texas shortly after the assassination of Friday.
FERRIE: Yeah, now that's true. I drove to What was so appealing about Houston?
JIM: What was so appealing about Houston?
FERRIE: I hadn't been there ice skating in many years, and I had a couple of young friends with me, and we decided we wanted to go ice skating.
JIM: Dave, may I ask why the urge to go ice skating in Texas happened to strike you during one of the most violent thunderstorms in recent Oh, it was just a spur of the moment thing. the storm wasn't that bad.
FERRIE: Oh, it was just a spur of the moment thing. the storm wasn't that bad.
JIM: I see. And where did you drive?
FERRIE: We went straight to Houston, and then Saturday night we drove to Galveston and stayed over there.
JIM: Why Galveston?
FERRIE: No particular reason. Just to go And then Sunday?
JIM: And then Sunday?
FERRIE: In the morning we went goose hunting. Then headed home, but I dropped the boys off to see some relatives and I stayed in Hammond.
JIM: Did you bag any geese on this trip?
FERRIE: I believe the boys got a couple.
JIM: But the boys told us they didn't get Oh yes, well, come to think of it, they're right. We got to where the geese were and there were thousands of them. But you couldn't approach them. They were a wise bunch of Your young friends also told us you had no weapons in the car. Dave, isn't it a bit difficult to hunt for geese without a shotgun?
FERRIE: ( fidgeting, lighting another cigarette ) Oh yes, well, come to think of it, they're right. We got to where the geese were and there were thousands of them. But you couldn't approach them. They were a wise bunch of Your young friends also told us you had no weapons in the car. Dave, isn't it a bit difficult to hunt for geese without a shotgun?
JIM: Your young friends also told us you had no weapons in the car. Dave, isn't it a bit difficult to hunt for geese without a shotgun?
FERRIE: Yes, now I remember, Mr. Garrison. I'm sorry, I got confused. We got out there near the geese and it was only then we realized we'd forgotten our shotguns. Stupid, right? So of course we didn't get any geese.
JIM: I see. Dave thank you for your time. I'm sorry it has to end inconveniently for you, but I'm going to have you detained for further questioning by the FBI.
FERRIE: ( shaken ) Why? What's wrong?
JIM: Dave, I find your story simply not Gentlemen, this afternoon the FBI released David W. Ferrie of New Orleans. After extensive questioning and a thorough background check, the Bureau found no evidence that.
FBI SPOKESMAN: Gentlemen, this afternoon the FBI released David W. Ferrie of New Orleans. After extensive questioning and a thorough background check, the Bureau found no evidence that.
FBI SPOKESMAN: ( on TV ) .Mr. Ferrie knew Lee Harvey Oswald or that he has had any connection with the assassination of President Kennedy. The Special Agent in Charge would like to make clear that Mr. Ferrie was brought in for questioning by the District Attorney of Orleans parish, not by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The Bureau regrets any trouble this may have caused Mr. In national news, President Johnson has announced the creation of a blue ribbon presidential commission to probe the events in Dallas.
NEWSMAN 9: In national news, President Johnson has announced the creation of a blue ribbon presidential commission to probe the events in Dallas.
LOU: Correct me if I'm wrong. I thought we were on the same side. What the hell business is it of theirs to say Pretty fast, wasn't it. The way they let him go.
BILL: Pretty fast, wasn't it. The way they let him go.
JIM: They must know something we don't. So, let's get on with our lives, gentlemen. we got plenty of home grown crimes to prosecute.
NEWSMAN 9: The Commission will be headed by Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court, Earl Warren, and is expected to head off several Congressional and Texas inquiries into the assassination. On the panel are Allen Dulles, ex-chief of the CIA, Representative Gerald Ford, John J. McCloy, former head of Chase Manhattan Bank.
LONG: ( continuing ) Sad thing is the way it's screwing up this country, all these hippies running around on drugs, the way young people look you can't tell a boy from a girl anymore. I saw a girl the other day, she was pregnant - you could see her whole belly, and you know what she painted on it? "Love Child." It's fuckin' outa control. Values've gone to hell, Jim. Course it figures when you got somebody like that polecat Johnson in the White House.
JIM: I sometimes feel things've gone downhill since John Kennedy was killed, Senator.
LONG: Don't get me started on that. Those Warren Commission fellows were pickin' gnat shit out of pepper. No one's gonna tell me that kid did the shooting job he did from that damned Here you go, Senator Long.
STEWARDESS: Here you go, Senator Long.
JIM: ( surprised ) I thought the FBI test-fired the rifle to make sure it could be done?
LONG: Sure, three experts and not one of them could do it! They're telling us Oswald got off three shots with world-class precision from a manual bolt action rifle in less than six seconds - and accordin' to his Marine buddies he got Maggie's drawers - he wasn't any good. Average man would be lucky to get two shots off, and I tell ya the first shot would always be the best. Here, the third shot's perfect. Don't make sense. And then they got that crazy bullet zigzagging all over the place so it hits Kennedy and Connally seven times. One "pristine" bullet? That dog don't hunt.
JIM: You know, something always bothered me about that from day one, and I can't put my finger on it.
LONG: If I were investigatin', I'd round up the 100 best riflemen in the world and find out which ones were in Dallas that day. You been duck hunting? I think Oswald was a good old-fashioned decoy. What'd he say? "I'm just a patsy." Out of the mouth of babes y'ask me.
JIM: You think there were other men involved, Russell?
LONG: Hell, you're the District Attorney. You read the Warren Report - and then you tell me you're satisfied Lee Oswald shot the President all by his lonesome.
JIM: Russell, honestly you sound like one of those kooky critics spreading paranoia like prairie fire. I just can't believe the Chief Justice of the United States would put his name on something that wasn't true.
LONG: ( to the stewardess ) Honey, another one of these. This one's as weak as cricket pee-pee. Yessir, you mark my words, Jim, Vietnam's gonna cost Johnson '68 and it's gonna put that other varmint Nixon in - then watch your hide, 'cause there ain't no offramps on a freeway to Hell!
LIZ: Jim, dinner's just about ready. I've got a surprise for you. tried something new. Jim? Jim, dinner.
JIM: ( lost in thought ) Mmmmm. sure smells good. but Egghead, do you realize Oswald was interrogated for twelve hours after the assassination, with no lawyer present, and nobody recorded a word of it? I can't believe it. A police captain with 30 years experience and a crowd of Federal agents just had to know that with no record anything that Oswald said would be inadmissible in court.
LIZ: Come on now, we'll talk about it at the table, dinner's getting cold. What are you doing in here?
JASPER: Daddy said it was all right if I was real quiet.
JIM: ( rising to dinner ) Sure it is. Freckle Face, if I ever handled a minor felon like that, it'd be all over the papers. I'd catch hell. And this is the alleged murderer of the President?
JIM: Again and again they ignore credible testimony, leads are never followed up, its conclusions are selective, there's no index, it's one of the sloppiest, most disorganized investigations I've ever seen. Dozens and dozens of witnesses in Dealey Plaza that day are saying they heard shots coming from the Grassy Knoll area in front of Kennedy and not the Book Depository behind him, but it's all broken down and spread around and you read it and the point gets I never did believe it either!
MATTIE: I never did believe it either!
LIZ: ( politely listening ) Uh huh. Mattie, I'll do the dishes, you take Be up now. And Elizabeth, too, your bedtime, honey.
LIZ: Honey, that was three years ago - we all tried so hard to put that out of our minds, why are you digging it up again? You're the D.A. of New Orleans. Isn't the Kennedy assassination a bit outside your domain? I mean all those important people already studied it.
JIM: I can't believe a man as intelligent as Earl Warren ever read what's in those volumes.
LIZ: Well maybe you're right, Jim. I'll give you one hour to solve the case. until the kids are in bed. Then you're mine and Mr. Kennedy can wait 'til morning. Come on, everybody say goodnight to Daddy.
JASPER: ( showing his drawing ) Dad, look what I drew.
JIM: ( rising ) That's something, Jasper. What is A rhinoceros. Can I stay up another
JASPER: A rhinoceros. Can I stay up another
JIM: ( dancing ) Pickle and Snapper, my two favorite dancing partners.
JIM: Goodnight, my doodle bugs.
KIDS: Goodnight, Daddy.
LIZ: One hour, y'hear? Some Saturday night date you are. Mama warned me this would happen if I married such a serious man.
JIM: Oh, she did, huh? When I come up I'll show you how Saturday night got
BOWERS: I sealed off the area, and I held off the trains until they could be examined, and there was some transients taken on at least one Mr. Bowers. is there anything else you told me I haven't asked you about that you can think of?
ATTORNEY: Mr. Bowers. is there anything else you told me I haven't asked you about that you can think of?
BOWERS: Nothing that I can recall.
ATTORNEY: Witness is excused.
SGT. HARKNESS: Well we got a long freight that was in there, and we pulled some people off of there and took them to the
JIM: ( astounded ) ( writes "incomplete" )
BOWERS: Towards the underpass, I saw two men standing behind a picket fence. they were looking up towards Main and Houston and following the caravan as it came down. One of them was middle-aged, heavyset. The other man was younger, wearing a plaid shirt and jacket.
BOWERS: There were two other men on the eastern end of the parking lot. Each of 'me had uniforms.
BOWERS: At the time of the shooting there seemed to be some commotion. I just am unable to describe - a flash of light or smoke or something which caused me to feel that something out of the ordinary had occurred there on the embankment.
JIM: Liz stirs, shaken.
NO!: Liz stirs, shaken.
LIZ: Honey, you all right?
JIM: It's incredible, honey - the whole thing. A Lieutenant Colonel testifies that Lee Oswald was given a Russian language exam as part of his Marine training only a few months before he defects to the Soviet Union. A Russian exam!
LIZ: ( sitting up, angered ) I cannot believe this. It's four- thirty, Jim Garrison. I have five children are gonna be awake in another hour and .
JIM: Honey, in all my years in the service I never knew a single man who was given a Russian test. Oswald was a radar operator. He'd have about as much use for Russian as a cat has for pajamas.
LIZ: These books are getting to your mind, Mr. Garrison. I wish you'd stop readin' them.
JIM: And then this Colonel tries to make it sound like nothing. Oswald did badly on the test, he says. "He only had two more Russian words right than wrong." Ha! That's like me saying Touchdown here. .is not very intelligent because I beat him three games out of five the last time we played chess.
LIZ: ( gives up ) Jim, what is going on, for heaven's sake! You going to stay up all night every night? For what? So you'll be the only man in America who read the entire 26 volumes of the Warren Liz, do I have to spell it out for you? Lee Oswald was no ordinary soldier. That was no accident he was in Russia. He was probably in military intelligence. That's why he was trained in Russian.
JIM: Liz, do I have to spell it out for you? Lee Oswald was no ordinary soldier. That was no accident he was in Russia. He was probably in military intelligence. That's why he was trained in Russian.
LIZ: ( with a quizzical look ) Honey, go back to sleep, please!
JIM: Goddammit! I been sleeping for three
LIZ: Will you stop rattling on about Kennedy for a few minutes, honey. come on.
JIM: Morning, boys. Ready for a walking At 7:30 Sunday morning? It's not exactly fresh blood we're sniffing here, boss.
BILL: At 7:30 Sunday morning? It's not exactly fresh blood we're sniffing here, boss.
JIM: ( points ) Old stains, Bill, but just as telling.
JIM: Remember whose office this was back in '63? 531 Lafayette Street.
LOU: Yeah, Guy Banister. Ex-FBI man. He died couple years ago.
JIM: 544 Camp Street. Same building as 531 Lafayette, right. but different address and different entrances both going to the same place - the offices on the second and third floors.
JIM: Guess who used this address?
BANISTER: ( under ) See this? What the hell is this doing on this piece of paper? ( he moves away ) My God! Lee Harvey Oswald.
JIM: He was arrested that day for fighting with some anti-Castro Cubans. but actually he had contacted them a few days earlier as an ex-Marine trying to join the anti-Castro crusade. When they heard he was now pro-Castro, they paid him a visit.
CARLOS: ( haranguing passerby ) He's a traitor, this man! Don't believe a word he tells you! ( to Oswald ) You sonofabitch, you liar, you're a Communist, go back to Moscow.
OSWALD: Okay, Carlos, if you want to hit me, hit me.
JIM: But the arrest gets him a lot of publicity and as a result Oswald appears on a local TV debate that established his credentials as a But you're a Communist, are you not, and you defected to Russia.
BRINGUIER: But you're a Communist, are you not, and you defected to Russia.
OSWALD: No, I am not a Communist. But I am a Marxist-Leninist.
BRINGUIER: What did you do when you were in I worked while I was there. I was always under the protection of. that is to say, I was not under the protection of the U.S. Government.
OSWALD: ( defensive ) I worked while I was there. I was always under the protection of. that is to say, I was not under the protection of the U.S. Government.
BILL: What the hell's a Communist like Lee Oswald doing working out of Y'ever heard of a double agent, Bill? I'm beginning to doubt Oswald was ever a Communist. after the arrest, 544 Camp Street never appeared on the pamphlets again. Now here's another one for you: What would you say if I told you Lee Oswald had been trained in the Russian language when he was a Marine?
JIM: Y'ever heard of a double agent, Bill? I'm beginning to doubt Oswald was ever a Communist. after the arrest, 544 Camp Street never appeared on the pamphlets again. Now here's another one for you: What would you say if I told you Lee Oswald had been trained in the Russian language when he was a Marine?
LOU: I'd say he was probably getting intelligence training.
JIM: Lou, you were in the Marines. Who would be running that training?
LOU: The Office of Naval Intelligence.
JIM: Take a look across the street.
LOU: Post Office.
JIM: Upstairs. In 1963 that was the Office of Naval Intelligence - And just by coincidence, Banister, before he was FBI, was ONI. What do they say?
LOU: "Once ONI, always ONI"?
BILL: Well, he likes to work near his old
JIM: Bill, Lou, we're standing in the heart of the United States Government's intelligence community in New Orleans. That's the FBI there, the CIA, Secret Service, ONI. Doesn't this seem to you a rather strange place for a Communist to spend his spare time?
LOU: What are you driving at, boss?
JIM: We're going back into the case, Lou - the murder of the President. I want you to take some money from the Fees and Fines Account and go to Dallas - talk to some people. Bill, I want you to get Oser on the medical, the autopsy, Susan on Oswald and Ruby histories, tax records.
BILL: Lord, wake me, please. I must be No, you're awake, Bill, and I'm dead serious. And we're going to start by tracking down your anonymous source from three years ago. How did you find out Dave Ferrie drove to Texas that day?
JIM: No, you're awake, Bill, and I'm dead serious. And we're going to start by tracking down your anonymous source from three years ago. How did you find out Dave Ferrie drove to Texas that day?
JIM: You're not under cross-examination here, Jack.
JIM: Here's my problem, Jack. You told me you and Guy were good friends for a long time?
MARTIN: More than ten years.
JIM: And he never hit you before?
MARTIN: Never touched me.
JIM: Yet on November 22, 1963 - the day of the President's murder - our police report says he pistol-whipped you with a .357 Magnum. But the police report says you had an argument over the phone bill. Here, take a look at it. Now, does a simple argument over phone bills sound like a believable explanation to you?
MARTIN: ( shaking his head slowly, dreamily ) No, it involved more than that.
JIM: How much more?
MARTIN: ( waits ) I don't know if I should talk about Well, I'd ask Guy - we were friendly, you know - heart attack, wasn't it?
JIM: Well, I'd ask Guy - we were friendly, you know - heart attack, wasn't it?
MARTIN: If you buy what you read in the paper.
JIM: You have other information?
MARTIN: I didn't say that. All I know is he died suddenly just before the Warren Report came out.
JIM: Why did Guy beat you, Jack?
MARTIN: Well, I guess now that Guy's dead, it don't really matter. it was about the people hanging around the office that summer. I wasn't really part of the operation, you know. I was handling the private-eye work for Guy when that came in - not much did - but that's why I was there. it was a nuthouse. There were all these Cubans coming and going. They all looked alike to me.
MARTIN: Dave Ferrie - you know about him?
MARTIN: Anyway, late summer the party ended. Kennedy didn't want another Bay of Pigs mess, so he ordered the FBI to shut down the camps and confiscate the napalm and the C-4. There were a buncha Cubans and a couple Americans arrested, only you didn't read about it in the papers. Just the weapons got mentioned. 'cause the first ones behind bars would've been Banister and Ferrie, but I think the G-men were just going through the motions for Washington. Their hearts were with their old FBI buddy
MARTIN: Like I said, a fuckin' nuthouse.
JIM: And Oswald?
MARTIN: ( finally ) Yeah, he was there, too. sometimes he'd be meeting with Banister with the door shut. Other times he'd be shooting the bull with Ferrie. But he was there all right.
JIM: Anything more specific, Jack? It's
SECRETARY: I can't believe it, Mr. Banister. Lee Oswald is down on Canal Street giving out Communist leaflets supporting Castro!
BANISTER: It's okay, Delphine, he's with us.
JIM: Anyone else involved at Banister's There was one guy, I don't know, big guy, business guy, white hair - I saw him come into the office once. He looked out of place, y'know - like a society guy. Can't remember his name. Oswald was with him.
MARTIN: ( shrugs ) There was one guy, I don't know, big guy, business guy, white hair - I saw him come into the office once. He looked out of place, y'know - like a society guy. Can't remember his name. ( thinking ) Oswald was with him.
MARTIN: He had something to do with money. I remember him cause Guy, who didn't kiss anybody's ass, sure kissed his.
MARTIN: Clay something, that was his name - Bertrand. Clay Bertrand?
JIM: Bertrand. Clay Bertrand?
MARTIN: Yeah! That's it. I don't know. Maybe it wasn't. I gotta go.
JIM: ( to Bill ) Clay Bertrand. He's in the Warren Report. He tried to get Oswald a ( to Martin ) Was Kennedy ever discussed, Jack?
MARTIN: Sure. 'Course they hated the sonofabitch, but.
JIM: The assassination, Jack?
MARTIN: ( tightens ) Never. Not with me sir, never. Listen, I think I'd better go. I said enough. I said all I'm going to say. ( rises suddenly )
JIM: Hold on, Jack. What's the problem?
MARTIN: What's the problem? What's the problem? Do I need to spell it out for you, Mr. Garrison? I better go.
JIM: Nobody knows what we're talking about, You're so naive, mister.
MARTIN: You're so naive, mister.
BILL: Well, it's a terrific yard, Chief, but the man's an obvious alcoholic with a reputation lower than crocodile Does that bother you, Bill? I always wondered in court why it is because a woman is a prostitute, she has to have bad eyesight.
JIM: Does that bother you, Bill? I always wondered in court why it is because a woman is a prostitute, she has to have bad eyesight.
BILL: He'll never sign a statement, boss, let alone get on a witness stand.
JIM: When something's rotten in the land, Bill, it generally isn't just one fish, we'll get corroboration. find this Clay Bertrand. If I were a betting man, I'd give you 10 to 1 it's an alias. Start checking around the Quarter.
BILL: And the six of us, with almost no budget and in secret, are going to solve the case that the Warren Commission with dozens of support staff and millions of dollars couldn't solve. We can't keep up with the crimes in the Parish as it is, Chief.
JIM: The murder of a President, Bill, is a crime in Orleans Parish too. I didn't pick you because of your legal skill, you know.
BILL: Gee, thanks boss.
JIM: But because you're a fighter. I like a man who isn't scared of bad
BLACK WOMAN: How ya doing, Mr. Garrison? Remember me - from the piano bar at the Royal I sure do. We sang "You're the Cream in My Coffee."
JIM: I sure do. We sang "You're the Cream in My Coffee."
JIM: ( to Numa ) Make sure we come back here, now.
MAITRE D': Mr. Garrison, we have not seen enough of you lately.
JIM: Been too busy, Paul - an elected man can't have as much fun as he used Welcome back, Lou. Find out anything on those hobos?
LOU: They took 'em to the Sheriff's office, not the police station, and they let 'em go. No record of them ever being I can't say that comes as a surprise A photographer from The Dallas Times Herald got some great shots of them never published.
JIM: I can't say that comes as a surprise A photographer from The Dallas Times Herald got some great shots of them never published.
LOU: A photographer from The Dallas Times Herald got some great shots of them never published.
LOU: .take a good look, chief, do any of 'em look like the hoboes you Hoboes I knew of old used to sleep in their clothes - these two look pretty young.
JIM: Hoboes I knew of old used to sleep in their clothes - these two look pretty young.
LOU: .not a single frayed collar or cuff, new haircuts, fresh shaves, clean hands - new shoe leather. Look at the ear of the cop. That's a wire. What's a cop wearing a headset for? I think they're actors, chief; they're not cops.
JIM: Who the hell are they, then! Hi, Susie, sit down. This could be it. Let's start looking for 'em.
LOU: Graveyard dead. August this year. A single car accident on an empty road in Midlothian, Texas. The doctor said he was in some kind of strange shock when he died.
JIM: ( shares the look ) We need to find more witnesses, Lou.
LOU: There was Rose Cheramie. A whore. Two Cubans threw her out of a car on the way to Dallas.
JIM: Can we find her?
LOU: Graveyard dead near Big Sandy, Texas in '65. Two in the morning on some highway. A hit and run.
BILL: Why not go right to the horse's mouth,
JIM: If we go to him our investigation'll hit the front pages by sunrise. Blow up right in our face. Ruby was just given a new trial. If he has something to say, it'll be there. Susie, what did you find out on Negative on his tax records. Classified. First time I know a D.A. can't get a tax record. I put together a list of all the CIA files on Oswald that were part of the Warren Report and asked for them. There are about 1200 documents. Oswald in the USSR, in Mexico City, Oswald and the U2, a CIA 201 personnel file, a memo from the Director on Oswald, travel and activities - can't get one of them. All classified as secret on the grounds of national security. It's real strange.
SUSIE: Negative on his tax records. Classified. First time I know a D.A. can't get a tax record. I put together a list of all the CIA files on Oswald that were part of the Warren Report and asked for them. There are about 1200 documents. Oswald in the USSR, in Mexico City, Oswald and the U2, a CIA 201 personnel file, a memo from the Director on Oswald, travel and activities - can't get one of them. All classified as secret on the grounds of national security. It's real strange.
BILL: Maybe there's more to this, Susie. The CIA's keeping something from our Yes, but we're talking about a dead warehouse employee of no political significance. Three years later and he's still classified? They gave us his grammar school records, a study of his pubic hairs. Put it in context, Bill, of what we know about Oswald. Lonely kid, no father, unstable childhood, high school dropout - wants to grow up and be a spy, joins the Marines at 17. He learns Russian, he acts overtly Marxist with two other marines, but he's stationed at a top secret base in Japan where U2 spy flights over Russia originate. He's discharged from the Marines supposedly because his mother's sick. He stays home 3 days, then with a $1500 ticket from a $203 bank account, he goes to
SUSIE: Yes, but we're talking about a dead warehouse employee of no political significance. Three years later and he's still classified? They gave us his grammar school records, a study of his pubic hairs. Put it in context, Bill, of what we know about Oswald. Lonely kid, no father, unstable childhood, high school dropout - wants to grow up and be a spy, joins the Marines at 17. He learns Russian, he acts overtly Marxist with two other marines, but he's stationed at a top secret base in Japan where U2 spy flights over Russia originate. He's discharged from the Marines supposedly because his mother's sick. He stays home 3 days, then with a $1500 ticket from a $203 bank account, he goes to
OSWALD: ( voice stilted ) I want to renounce my citizenship and become a Soviet citizen. I'm going to make known to them all information I have concerning the Marine Corps and my specialty therein, radar operation.
OSWALD: I will never return to the United States for any reason. It is a capitalist country, an exploitive, racist country. I am a Marxist since I was 15. I've seen poor niggers and that was a real lesson. People hate because they're told to hate, like school kids. It's the fashion to hate people in the U.S.
SUSIE: Finally they shuttle him to a radio factory in Minks where he lives as high on the hog as he ever has - he's given 5,000 rubles, a roomy apartment with a balcony, has affairs with local girls.
JIM: Makes sense - he's a spokesman.
SUSIE: But he never writes, speaks, or does any propaganda for the Russians. He meets Marina, whose uncle is a colonel in Soviet intelligence, at a trade union dance; she thinks he's Russian the way he speaks, six weeks later they marry, have a daughter.
NUMA: Didn't someone say he didn't speak good Russian?
JIM: It's a contradiction, Numa, get used to them. The only explanation for the royal treatment is he did give them radar secrets. Or fake secrets.
BILL: Susie, you're an assistant D.A., remember. Stick to what you can prove in court.
SUSIE: You want facts, Bill? Okay. From 1945 to '59 only two U.S. soldiers defect to Russia. From '59 to '60, seven defect, six return, one of them another Marine a month before Oswald. All of them young men made to seem poor, disenchanted.
JIM: Don't get sidetracked! How does he get back to the States? That's the point. Does he have any problems?
SUSIE: None! The State Department issues him a new passport in 48 hours and loans him the money to travel. He's never investigated or charged by the Navy for revealing classified information or, as far as we know, debriefed by the CIA.
JIM: This is a man whose secrets cause us to change our radar patterns in the Pacific! He should've been prosecuted as a traitor!
SUSIE: The FBI finally gets around to talking to him in Dallas and runs a file on him as a miscreant Communist type.
JIM: But who meets him when he gets off the boat in New York in June '62?
JIM: Dammit, it doesn't add up! Ordinary people get blacklisted for leftist affiliations! The State Department did everything short of dispatching a destroyer to Minks to insure Oswald's return. Only intelligence people can come and go like that.
JIM: Sort of like Benedict Arnold coming back to George Washington's cabinet.
SUSIE: Equally incongruous is Oswald becoming chummy with the White Russian community of Dallas - all rabid anti- His closest friend is an oilman named George de Mohrenschildt who's about 35 years older than Oswald, who's only 23 and supposedly broke. De Mohrenschildt is a member of the Dallas Petroleum Club, speaks five languages and was in French Vichy Intelligence during the War. Also rumoured to have been a Nazi sympathizer and member of the "Solidarists", an international anti- Communist organization with many Eastern Europeans and ex-Nazis, many of them brought here by the CIA after the war, many of them involved in oil and munitions interests in Dallas and the Southwest. You figure it.
SUSIE: His closest friend is an oilman named George de Mohrenschildt who's about 35 years older than Oswald, who's only 23 and supposedly broke. De Mohrenschildt is a member of the Dallas Petroleum Club, speaks five languages and was in French Vichy Intelligence during the War. Also rumoured to have been a Nazi sympathizer and member of the "Solidarists", an international anti- Communist organization with many Eastern Europeans and ex-Nazis, many of them brought here by the CIA after the war, many of them involved in oil and munitions interests in Dallas and the Southwest. You figure it.
AL: Where'd you get all this Nazi stuff?
SUSIE: ( hands him a file ) Read it. They called it "Project This is the guy that keeps turning up in colonial countries and each time something strange happens. Coup d'etats, presidents overthrown. He shows up on a "walking tour" of Guatemala's Cuban invasion camps just before the Bay of Pigs invasion. If we don't know he's CIA, let's circle him very probable - Oswald's
OSWALD: I think he's made some mistakes on Cuba, but he's doing a pretty good job. If he succeeds, in my opinion, he'll be a great President. And a really attractive one too - open features, great head of hair.
JIM: That's scenery. Don't get sidetracked. This is the man, bottom line, who nailed Oswald to the Warren Commission as a potentially violent man, and linked him to the rifle.
GEORGE: So, Lee, what are you taking a potshot at this week - rabbits or fascists?
SUSIE: The only Russian that suspects Oswald of still being a Communist is Anna Meller. But her Russian friend tells her "he's checked" with the local FBI and was told Oswald is all right.
SUSIE: The Oswalds are introduced by George de Mohrenschildt to Janet and Bill Williams. It's through Janet Williams in October '63 that Lee gets the warehouse job, right smack on Elm Street at the Book Depository, which is owned by another oilman with ties to defense and military intelligence.
JIM: I wonder about the Williams'. Just where did the first description of Oswald come from at 12:44? No one knows. They claimed it was Brennan's, but his description came after 1 P.M. Who called? Somehow the FBI's been tapping the Williams' and picks up a call between Bell Helicopter and Janet's phone, an unidentified voice saying "We both know who's responsible." Who called? Why's the Bureau been tapping them?
SUSIE: When he's arrested, Marina buries him with the public. Her description of him is that of a psychotic and violent man.
MARINA: I do not want to believe, but I have too much facts.. tell me that Lee shot Kennedy.
BILL: I'm lost, boss. What are we saying We're saying that when Oswald went to Russia, he was not a real defector, that he was an intelligence agent on some kind of mission for our government and he remained one till the day he died, that's what we're And therefore because Oswald pulled the trigger, the intelligence community murdered their own commander in chief. That's what you're saying!
JIM: We're saying that when Oswald went to Russia, he was not a real defector, that he was an intelligence agent on some kind of mission for our government and he remained one till the day he died, that's what we're And therefore because Oswald pulled the trigger, the intelligence community murdered their own commander in chief. That's what you're saying!
BILL: And therefore because Oswald pulled the trigger, the intelligence community murdered their own commander in chief. That's what you're saying!
JIM: I'll go you one better! Maybe Oswald didn't even pull the trigger, Bill. The nitrate test indicates he didn't even fire a rifle on November 22nd. And on top of that, they didn't even bother to check if the rifle had been fired that day.
BILL: He had his palm print on the weapon.
JIM: It went to the goddamn FBI and they didn't find a goddamn thing. It comes back a week later and one guy in the Dallas police department suddenly finds a palm print which for all I know he could've taken off Oswald at the morgue. There's no chain of evidence, Bill. And what about the tow guns actually seen in the Depository? One an Enfield photographed by a newsman and the other a Mauser, described by Deputy Weitzman. Maybe, just maybe, Lee Oswald was exactly what he said he was Bill - "a patsy". Take it at face value. Lou, Susie, I'm going with my gut here. He's got an alias of Hidell to buy the rifle, "O.H. Lee" to rent the room, right? What's in a name, right? In intelligence, they're assumed to be fake. A name is sort of like a postbox number, a code - several different people can use the same name, right? Then why can't somebody be using Oswald's
BILL: But why?
JIM: To frame him, obviously. You got to get in your minds how the hell spooks think, Bill! They're not ordinary I never could figure out why this guy orders a traceable weapon to that post office box when you can go into any store in Texas, give a phony name and walk out with a cheap rifle which can never be traced.
LOU: I never could figure out why this guy orders a traceable weapon to that post office box when you can go into any store in Texas, give a phony name and walk out with a cheap rifle which can never be traced.
JIM: Unless he or someone else wants him to get caught. Maybe he never ordered the weapon, Lou. Somebody else did. It was picked up at the post office early morning when Oswald's time sheet shows him clocked in at his job. Lou, come alive. These things are not adding up.
BILL: I still have to question what the legal basis is that supports this, boss. Susie's stuff is colorful, Let's start making some assumptions about the man. Why would he leave a path as big as Lee Harvey Oswald's? This is not a thin trail, gentlemen, it is a very wide one. Who found the evidence? Who set him up? Lou, Bill, Susie, I want you to go back and check all the sightings of Oswald in Dallas, New Orleans and Mexico in the summer and fall of '63 - see if it's the same guy.
JIM: Let's start making some assumptions about the man. Why would he leave a path as big as Lee Harvey Oswald's? This is not a thin trail, gentlemen, it is a very wide one. Who found the evidence? Who set him up? Lou, Bill, Susie, I want you to go back and check all the sightings of Oswald in Dallas, New Orleans and Mexico in the summer and fall of '63 - see if it's the same guy.
AL: Boss, Oswald impersonators? Sounds like James Bond now.
JIM: Al, you can't tell a mink from a coonskin unless you see the fur up close. Goddamn, Sam! If we don't start reading between the lines here! Y'all gotta start thinking on a different level - like the CIA does. We're through the looking glass. Here white is black and black is What do you think, Lou?
BILL: What do you think, Lou?
LOU: I'm just an investigator, Bill. I leave the theories to you lawyers.
BILL: You, Numa?
NUMA: A week ago I would've said this is nuts, but now . There's a lot of smoke there, but there's some fire.
BILL: Now you guys, come on. You're talking about the United States Government We're talking about a crime, Bill. No one is above the law. Reduce it. A crime was committed. Let's get to
JIM: We're talking about a crime, Bill. No one is above the law. Reduce it. A crime was committed. Let's get to
RUBY: Christ, what the hell kinda needle is that? I just got a cold for Chrissake. I don't want any shot!
DOCTOR: Please relax, Mr. Ruby. This'll calm you down and clear this up.
RUBY: Doc, I'm telling you, I don't need any shots.
DOCTOR: Mr. Ruby, I don't want to involve the guards. It'll just take a few
RUBY: Then do you understand that I cannot tell the truth here? In Dallas. That there are people here who do not want me to tell the truth. who do not want me to have a retrial?
OFFICIAL: Mr. Ruby, I really can't see why you can't tell us now.
RUBY: When are you going back to Washington, I am going back very shortly after we finish this hearing - I am going to have some lunch.
OFFICIAL: ( looks at watch ) I am going back very shortly after we finish this hearing - I am going to have some lunch.
RUBY: Can I make a statement? If you request me to go back to Washington with you right now, that is if you want to hear further testimony from me, can you do that? Can you take me with you?
OFFICIAL: No, that could not be done, Mr. Ruby. There are a good many things involved in that.
RUBY: What are they?
OFFICIAL: Well, the public attention it would attract. And we have no place for you there to be safe, we're not law enforcement officials, and many things are at stake in this affair, Mr. But if I am eliminated there won't be any way of knowing. Consequently a whole new form of government is going to take over this country, and I know I won't live to see you another time. My life is in danger here. Do I sound screwy?
RUBY: But if I am eliminated there won't be any way of knowing. Consequently a whole new form of government is going to take over this country, and I know I won't live to see you another time. My life is in danger here. Do I sound screwy?
OFFICIAL: Well I don't know what can be done, Mr. Ruby, because I don't know what you anticipate we will encounter.
RUBY: Then you don't stand a chance, Mr. Chief Justice, you have a lost cause. All I want is a lie detector test, and you refuse to give it to me. Because as it stands now - and the truth serum - how do you pronounce it - Pentothal - whatever it is. They will not give it to me, because I want to tell the truth. And then I want to leave this world.
ANDREWS: Why you keep dancing on my head for, my man? We been thicker'n molasses pie since law school.
JIM: Because you keep conning me, Dean. I read your testimony to the Warren Commission and.
ANDREWS: There you go. Grain of salt. Two sides to every coin.
JIM: You tell them the day after the assassination you were called on the phone by this "Clay Bertrand" and asked to fly to Dallas and be Lee Oswald's layer.
ANDREWS: Now that's pretty important, Dean. You also told the FBI when you met him, he was six foot two. Then you tell the Commission he was five foot eight. How the hell did the man shrink like that, Dean?
JIM: Now that's pretty important, Dean. You also told the FBI when you met him, he was six foot two. Then you tell the Commission he was five foot eight. How the hell did the man shrink like that, Dean?
ANDREWS: They put the heat on, my man, just like you're doing. I gave'em anything that popped into my cabeza. Truth is, I never met the dude.
ANDREWS: I don't know what the cat looks like and furthermore I don't know where he's at. All I know is sometimes he sends me cases. So one day he's on the phone talkin' to me about going to Dallas and repping Oswald. Hey, pipe the bimbo in red. What ever happened to that little gal you was dating in the Quarter - from Opelousas, y'know, elevator didn't go to the top floor but tits could smother gumbo with.
JIM: ( remembering ) Yeah, she was pretty, all right, but not half as cute as you, Deano. You shoulda tried a legitimate line of ( chuckles ) You can't ever say crime don't pay in Louisiana, Jim - only not as good as it used to. Good chowder, ain't When did you first do business with this Bertrand?
ANDREWS: ( chuckles ) You can't ever say crime don't pay in Louisiana, Jim - only not as good as it used to. Good chowder, ain't When did you first do business with this Bertrand?
JIM: When did you first do business with this Bertrand?
ANDREWS: ( bored ) Oh, I first heard these street cats jiving about him back in '56, '57 when I lived down in the Quarter.
JIM: Street cats?
ANDREWS: Swishes. They swish, y'know. Young fags, you know. They'd come into my bureau needing help, no bread, and I'd say, hey man, I ain't Rockefeller, who gonna back you up? These cornmuffins go to the phone and
ANDREWS: The dude on the other end says.
CLAY BERTRAND: I'm Clay Bertrand. Whatever they owe, I guarantee.
ANDREWS: Hey, suits me fine, Daddy Warbucks - how do I get in touch with you?
CLAY BERTRAND: I'm around.
ANDREWS: You knew you weren't talking to some low life fag, you know. He had command of the king's English.
JIM: Did he pay?
ANDREWS: Always - like tits on a pig. I wish I had a million of those bimbettes.
JIM: And Oswald?
ANDREWS: ( just a slight hesitation ) Like I told to the Washington boys, Bertrand called that summer and asked me to help the kid upgrade his Marine So you saw Oswald how many times?
JIM: So you saw Oswald how many times?
ANDREWS: Three, four. He came in with a few Cubano swishes one time I remember.
ANDREWS: ( in present ) Mario, Jose - they wear names like you and I wear clothes. Today the name is Candy, tomorrow it's Butsie. I wish I could help you, Jim.
JIM: Did you speak to Oswald in Dallas?
ANDREWS: ( knee-jerk reaction ) Hell, no! I told this Bertrand cat right off, this isn't my scene, man. I deal with muni court, I'm a hack in nigger town, that kid needs a hot Then how the hell did you get in the Warren Commission, Dean? Except through the phone records in the Dallas jail?
JIM: Then how the hell did you get in the Warren Commission, Dean? Except through the phone records in the Dallas jail?
ANDREWS: ( nervous moment ) There were no phone records.
JIM: Of course there weren't. 'Cause they disappeared. And yet the Commission found you, Dean.
ANDREWS: I don't know how they got to me. Maybe cause I repped him here. The Feebees run background checks. On my mama's breasts, man, that's all I There wasn't no conspiracy, Jim. If there were, why the hell didn't Bobby Kennedy prosecute it as Attorney General, he was his brother for Chrissake. How the fuck three people could keep a secret like that, I don't know. It was Oswald. He was a nut job. Faggot, y'know, hated this country.
JIM: Dean, I think we're having a communication problem. I know you know who Clay Bertrand is. Now stop eating that damn crabmeat for a minute and listen. I'm aware of our long friendship, but I want you to know I'm going to call you in front of a grand jury. I took nine judges on, Deano, right here in New Orleans, and I beat 'em all. If you lie to the grand jury as you've been lying to me, I'm going to charge you with perjury. Now, am I communicating with you?
ANDREWS: Is this off the record, Daddy-o? In that case, let me sum it up for you real quick. If I answer that question you keep asking me, if I give you the name of the "Big Enchilada", y'know, then it's bon voyage, Deano - I mean like permanent. I mean like a bullet in my head. You dig? Does that help you see my problem a little better? You're a mouse fighting a gorilla. Kennedy's dead as that crab meat. The government's still breathing. You want to line up with a dead man?
JIM: Read my lips, Deano. Either you dance into the Grand Jury with the real identity of Clay Bertrand or your fat behind is going to the slammer. Do you dig me?
ANDREWS: You're just as crazy as your mama. Goes to show it's in the genes! Do you have any idea what you're getting into, my man? You think Jack Ruby just up and died of cancer in four weeks after he gets a retrial? That's some kinda new cancer - I'd say that's a "going out of business cancer". You got the right ta-ta, but the wrong ho-ho. The government's gonna jump all over your head, Jimbo, and go "cock-a-doodledoo!"
GUARD: ( with evident pride ) .we don't need no gates out there, sir, we got the "swamp". Many of 'em gone in there but none come out. Hey, Willie!
GUARD: You got some company, wants to talk wid you. You behave now, boy, y'hear. I want to thank you, Mr. O'Keefe, for this time.
JIM: I want to thank you, Mr. O'Keefe, for this time.
O'KEEFE: Call me Willie. I ain't got nuthin' but time, Mr. Garrison. Minutes, hours, days, years of'em. Time just stands still here like a snake sunnin' itself in the road.
BILL: Clay Bertrand, Willie?
O'KEEFE: Yeah. Clay. I met him sometime in June of '62 at the Masquerade Bar. Dave Ferrie took me there, for the express reason to meet him.
JIM: For sexual purposes?
O'KEEFE: Well. yeah.
O'KEEFE: .there were about nine or ten people, Cubans, friends of Dave doing some stuff in the bush with him. Place was a mess. Dave's mind was a Y'know he had all those mice cages around cause he's working on this cure for cancer. Dave's smart - real smart - speaks five languages, knows philosophy, medicine, military history, politics. He wanted to be a priest but they defrocked him 'cause he was queer.
FERRIE: Willie, say hello to Leon Oswald.
O'KEEFE: ( over the racket ) How ya doing?
OSWALD: ( sullen, to Ferrie ) What the fuck's he doing here?
O'KEEFE: Fuck you, man.
FERRIE: ( to O'Keefe ) Leon's in a bad mood, don't get excited, he's all right.
O'KEEFE: ( in present ) Fuck, yes. Hell, I'm already in jail. I got no reason to lie to you. I ain't no nigger.
BILL: Go on, Willie.
O'KEEFE: ( present merging to past ) .well the party got crazier and crazier, one of those, y'know "beatnik" type things.
FERRIE: ( to O'Keefe ) We're having a little meeting here. ( indicates the second player ) That's Castro. Sounds like Hitler doesn't he? Sonofabitch is going to go. Real soon.
CUBANS: Muerte a Fidel! Muerte!
BERTRAND: ( irritated at the noise ) Oh, stop it already! What are all these people doing here anyway? I can't bear all this infernal noise.
FERRIE: Clara, don't be so sensitive.
BERTRAND: I didn't come here for a pep rally. Get all this riffraff out of here.
FERRIE: Okay, okay.
FERRIE: ( waving a clipping, drunk ) Kennedy fucked us in '61, '62, and he's fuckin' us now! And that fuckin' zealot Bobby Kennedy is the fuckee! The nerve of that little asswipe closing the camps. Took all our C- 4! Took ten thousand rounds, 3,000 pounds of gunpowder, all our weapons. Next we'll be living in a world where only the cocksucking Reds will have all the weapons and we'll be surrounded. If we want a free Cuba, we gotta whack out the fucking beard.
CUBAN: That faggot Kennedy won't let us. Our hands are empty - how can we kill him?
BERTRAND: ( moving with a drink, walks with a slight limp ) It's a real problem getting at him. Castro's got informers on every block.
FERRIE: ( pointing to a map of Cuba on the wall ) Bullshit! There's all kinds of new stuff. I heard about rockets in an umbrella - they're tested at Fort Detrick? I can show you a dozen poisons. Stick it in his food, he'll die in three days, no trace. We can put something in his beard, make it fall out, he'll look fuckin' ridiculous without his beard.
CUBAN: ( drunk ) Why don't we just take care of the main problem? Which is that piece of shit Kennedy. He's doing all kinds of deals! Kissing Khrushchev's ass. I wouldn't even call him President Kennedy.
FERRIE: See, what Kennedy done, with him you should take a knife and stab and kill the fucker where he is now. I mean it. This is true. But I tell you something. I hope I get a week's notice. I'll kill. Right in the fuckin' White House. Somebody's got to get rid of this fucker.
O'KEEFE: Oh, c'mon, Dave, you're never gonna get that sonofabitch.
FERRIE: No? It won't be long, mark my words. That fucker'll get what's coming to him. And it can be blamed on Castro. Then the whole country'll want to invade Cuba. All we got to do is get Kennedy in the open.
BERTRAND: David, David, always some harebrained scheme or another. Oh? What do I see here? Oooooh, let's have some more champagne, shall we!
O'KEEFE: ( interested in Ferrie's proposal ) What about the Secret Service, the ( pacing, hyper ) No problem if it's planned right. Look how close they got with de Gaulle. Eisenhower was always riding around in an open top. I know somebody who actually went up and touched Eisenhower once. We need to have three mechanics at three different locations. An office building with a high-powered rifle. Triangulation of crossfire is the key. You get the diversionary shot gets the Secret Service looking one way - Boom! You get the kill shot. The crucial thing is one man has to be sacrificed, then in the commotion of the crowd the job gets done and the others fly out of the country to someplace with no extradition. I could do that myself. I could fly to Mexico, and then Brazil.
FERRIE: ( pacing, hyper ) No problem if it's planned right. Look how close they got with de Gaulle. Eisenhower was always riding around in an open top. I know somebody who actually went up and touched Eisenhower once. We need to have three mechanics at three different locations. An office building with a high-powered rifle. Triangulation of crossfire is the key. You get the diversionary shot gets the Secret Service looking one way - Boom! You get the kill shot. The crucial thing is one man has to be sacrificed, then in the commotion of the crowd the job gets done and the others fly out of the country to someplace with no extradition. I could do that myself. I could fly to Mexico, and then Brazil.
BERTRAND: Why don't we drop this subject. it's one thing to engage in badinage with these youngsters, but this sort of thing could be so easily
FERRIE: O'KEEFE ( V.O. ) ( merging to the present )
JIM: Willie, are you willing to repeat your statements under sodium pentothal? Under the supervision of a doctor?
O'KEEFE: Fuck, yeah! I told you so. And you can tell'em all I told you so.
JIM: You realize the things you're saying, Willie, are going to be attacked by a lot of different people.
O'KEEFE: Bring on all the motherfuckers! Bring their college degrees in here! I got nuthin' to hide. They can't buy me. You can't buy me. I don't even need the parole. This is about the truth coming out. You're a goddamn liberal, Mr. Garrison, you don't know shit, cause you never been fucked in the ass. Fascism is here now, Facism is.
JIM: No one's trying to buy you, Willie. It's important to know why you're telling us this.
O'KEEFE: ( pauses ) You wanna know why? 'Cause that mother fucker Kennedy stole that fuckin' election, that's why! Nixon was gonna be one of the great Presidents 'til Kennedy wrecked this fuckin' country. Got niggers all over the fuckin' place asking for their rights, where do you think we got all this fuckin' crime now, 'cause Kennedy promised 'em too damned much. Revolution comin'. Fascism's coming back. I tell ya this - the day that Communist sumbitch died was a great day for this country. I jes' hate to think they're blaming it on some silly fuckin' Oswald who didn't know shit anyway. People should know why that sumbitch was killed. 'Cause he was a Communist. Put me on the stand, go ahead, I'll tell the same goddamn story, I'm proud of it, don't matter fuck all to me, things don't change.
SUSIE: Your hunch was right, boss, but it's even spookier than we thought. Starting in September '63 on, two months before the assassination, there are sightings of Oswald all over Dallas, buying ammunition, getting a telescopic sight fixed, going to rifle ranges. Early November, a Dallas downtown Lincoln- Mercury dealership where he tells the salesman Albert Bogard.
"OSWALD": Let's take it out for a test drive. The salesman, Bogard, is hesitant. "Oswald" doesn't look like he's got a dime to his name.
"OSWALD": ( SENSING BOGARD'S HESITANCY )
BOGARD: Three hundred bucks down, Mr. Oswald, you can drive outta here with it.
"OSWALD": Who you kidding! For this heap? Forget it. No honest working man can afford a car anymore in the goddamn country! Maybe I'll have to go back to Russia to buy a car.
LOU: .several witnesses see him on several separate days at different firing ranges.
LOU: .one time, November 9, he decides he needs to practice on the target of the guy next to him. Says something really dumb to the guy, who says Oswald was a great shot.
MAN: Hey, watcha doing, boy. that's my Hey, sorry, buddy. I just thought it was that sonofabitch Kennedy, y'know. I couldn't help myself.
"OSWALD": Hey, sorry, buddy. I just thought it was that sonofabitch Kennedy, y'know. I couldn't help myself.
JIM: ( in present ) .about as subtle as a cockroach crawling across a white rug.
SUSIE: I'll go you one better, Lou. He shows up at Silvia Odio's, a Cuban lady in Dallas working in the anti- Castro underground - remember that name, a solid witness. The two Cubans introduce him as "Leon Oswald".
SUSIE: .the Cubans want Silvia, whose parents are political prisoners in Cuba, to help them raise money to assassinate Castro. Something about the men bothers her. She tells them she doesn't want anything to do with violence. about 48 hours later one of the Cubans calls her back.
THE BULL: ( on the phone, in Spanish ) This guy Leon Oswald's great, he's kinda nut. he told us we don't any guts, us Cubans, cause Kennedy should've been whacked after the Bay of Pigs, and some Cubans should've done that, it's easy to do, he says - you know he's a Marine, an expert
SUSIE: It's like he's giving her information she doesn't even ask for. She's scared, doesn't see them again till she sees Oswald's picture in the paper. But the Warren Commission says she has bad eyesight because they have Oswald in Mexico at this time, trying to get back into Cuba. The Cubans think he's a double agent so they won't take him. The CIA has a camera outside the Cuban Embassy and says this is Oswald in Mexico. You figure it.
AL: If this is Oswald, it must be our third Oswald.
JIM: The interesting thing is the extent to which the Warren Commission went to make him a Communist. They got almost 150 pages and 130 exhibits of the report on this Mexico trip and the picture doesn't even match. I'm beginning to think the point of the Mexican episode was to lay the blame at Castro's door. If Oswald, or someone purporting to be Oswald, had gotten into Cuba, come back, then killed the President, the American public once again would've screamed for a Cuban invasion.
SUSIE: I even have doubts about this photo, boss. It pretty much convicted Oswald in the public mind. Well, according to Captain Fritz, Oswald told him during his interrogation the photo was fake.
OSWALD: That's not me.
FRITZ: It came from Janet William's garage.
OSWALD: Well, I never saw that picture. It is my face, but my face has been super-imposed - the rest of the picture is not me at all. I've done a lot of photographic work, and that picture was made by someone else.
FRITZ: So who the hell are you? Alex Hidell or Oswald?
OSWALD: Well, you're the policeman, you work it out.
SUSIE: ( in the present ) Oswald, who worked for Jaggars-Chiles- Stovall, did know spy photography pretty well. I took this picture to two experts. Look at the way the shadows on the nose fall in a straight line like it's high noon. But the shadow here on the ground reads like late afternoon or early morning. It's not the same time. Also look at the crop marks across the chin. It seems like his head is pasted on somebody else's body implicating him with this rifle and gun.
SUSIE: And of the two newspapers in his hands, one is Leninist, the other Trotskyite. Any genuine Socialist would know they hate each other's
MOBSTER: Clay Bertrand? Sure I know him. He comes around the Quarter.
BILL: Who is he, Joe? I've been to every bar, no one wants to talk.
MOBSTER: I told your uncle I never met a lawman who wasn't a punk. You too, Bill, even if you're family. He's a big shot businessman. I seen him on the TV news a lot with all the other big shots. A fag, you know. Goes by another name down here.
BILL: ( excited ) What's the other name?
MOBSTER: Shaw. Clay Shaw.
BILL: ( stunned ) Clay Bertrand is Clay Shaw? The guy who used to run the International Trade Mart?
MOBSTER: Yeah, what's the big mystery? Everybody down here knows the guy.
BILL: So why does he call himself Bertrand?
MOBSTER: Who gives a shit what he calls .now it gets positively spooky. In January, 1961 - in New Orleans, at the Bolton Ford Dealership - when the Oswald we know is in Russia - there is a man using the name "Oswald" to buy trucks for the Friends of Democratic Cuba. The salesman never saw him again, but guess who's on the articles of incorporation of the Friends of Democratic Cuba? Guy Banister has someone using the name "Oswald" to buy the trucks. Hoover, at the FBI, writes a memo dated June, 1960, that there could be someone using Oswald's passport and identity.
SUSIE: .now it gets positively spooky. In January, 1961 - in New Orleans, at the Bolton Ford Dealership - when the Oswald we know is in Russia - there is a man using the name "Oswald" to buy trucks for the Friends of Democratic Cuba. The salesman never saw him again, but guess who's on the articles of incorporation of the Friends of Democratic Cuba? Guy Banister has someone using the name "Oswald" to buy the trucks. Hoover, at the FBI, writes a memo dated June, 1960, that there could be someone using Oswald's passport and identity.
JIM: Goddamn! They put Oswald together from Day One! Like some dummy corporation in the Bahamas - you just move him around a board. Sent him to Russia, in and out, no passport problems. You got the word "microdots" in his notebook, you got the Minox camera and the electronic devices they find in his possessions, the sealed DIZ201 personnel file. For all we know, there could be a dozen Oswalds in different cities, countries - all of them leaving a trail of incriminating evidence that could easily be traced to a scapegoat after the assassination. Does the real Oswald know he's been put together? Who knows. It doesn't matter, does it? He's a low level spy, he doesn't know who he really works for.
LOU: Mobbed up all the way. Tight with the Dallas cops. I'm digging, chief. I just need 10 more men and some more dollars.
JIM: I know you do, Lou. I'm doing three more lectures this month. You're all doing an incredible job, Sue, Al, Numa. But this is one where if you don't nail the other guy, you're How did Jack Ruby dies so quick? Of what? Cancer, right? A history of Nazi Germany, Lou. They were studying viral cancers as a weapon in the 30's. We learned a lot more than you think from the Nazis. Read this. Our biological warfare lab is in Fort Detrick, Maryland. Close to where the National Cancer Institute is located. Think about it. Think the unthinkable - question everything.
NUMA: Even my own wife, chief, Who's wondering where I am?
JIM: ( looking at Liz ) Even your own wife, Numa. Any of you want to quit, do me a favor. put us out of our misery.
BILL: I fould Clay Bertrand.
SUSIE: Grab your socks and pull. Clay Bertrand is Clay Shaw.
BILL: Grab your socks and pull. Clay Bertrand is Clay Shaw.
SUSIE: ( stunned ) No!. Shaw! Director of The Trade Mart? This is incredible.
NUMA: Pillar of the community by day, gay bars at night. Can you get some sworn statements?
JIM: Can you get some sworn statements?
BILL: That's gonna be tough. Nobody's I think we should have him in for a little talk.
JIM: I think we should have him in for a little talk.
LIZ: Do you have any evidence against him, Jim? Clay Shaw's done so much for the city with all that restoration in the Quarter. He's well connected, all his friends, the money, people, be careful, Jim.
JIM: It'll be off the record, honey. I'll bring him in on a Sunday. A quiet little chat between gentlemen.
NEWSMAN 10: ( announcer ) In heavy fighting in Vietnam today, seven more American soldiers died and 23 were wounded. The body count for this week now stands at 67 Americans and 626 enemy soldiers killed in action.
LIZ: Jim, come on, honey, get down on your hands and knees and hunt for Jasper's Easter egg.
JIM: You know I don't like these tribal rituals, Freckle Face. I'm interviewing Clay Shaw this morning.
NEWSMAN 10: ( as TV cuts to President Johnson ) President Johnson, meanwhile at an informal press conference, said he regretted that there is no end in sight to the war in Vietnam, where 500,000 American troops are now fighting. "We face more cost, more loss, and more agony." In his proposal to raise taxes, Johnson.
LIZ: ( surprised ) But Jim, we're going to Antoine's with the kids - like we do every No. I told you I was going to talk to Shaw.
JIM: No. I told you I was going to talk to Shaw.
LIZ: But why in the Lord's name would you do it in the middle of Easter Sunday when you knew we were.
JIM: ( annoyed with her look ) Because when I scheduled it I didn't realize it was a holiday. You were there, why didn't you say something?
LIZ: Look at the calendar, for Christ's sake. You said a Sunday, not Easter I'm sorry, but it's important. Clay Shaw is important. I'm sorry.
JIM: I'm sorry, but it's important. Clay Shaw is important. I'm sorry.
LIZ: You're missing most of your life, Jim, and you don't even know it. The kids are missing out too. It's not just you making the sacrifice here, honey.
JIM: Look, I'll rush and be there by two, I promise. Go ahead without me.
CLAY SHAW: Mr. Garrison - what can I do for you on Easter Sunday?
JIM: I'm sorry, Mr. Shaw, to interrupt this holiday, but I feel this is a conversation we might better have out of the everyday bustle in this I'm not sure I understand.
SHAW: ( sitting ) I'm not sure I understand.
JIM: ( bringing some papers forward ) Well. in an investigation we're conducting your name has come up a number of times.
SHAW: I wouldn't imagine where.
JIM: We recently talked to a number of men who claim to know you. Are you acquainted with a David Logan?
SHAW: No. Never heard of him.
JIM: A Perry Russo?
SHAW: A Willie O'Keefe?
JIM: A Willie O'Keefe?
SHAW: No, I don't believe I know anyone by that name.
JIM: Mr. O'Keefe told us he met you at the Masquerade Bar down in the Quarter and several evenings later you had him over for dinner at your apartment on Dauphine Street. Do you recall
SHAW: ( in present ) Not at all. But on the other hand, I do have a lovely Chippendale dining table and I often have a friend over sitting at one end while I sit at the other. That is precisely the point of a long dining table. The splendor of the meal adds to the enjoyment of it.
JIM: I would imagine a uniformed waiter It adds a taste of elegance for which I must confess a weakness for now and then. I call him Smedley. His real name is Frankie Jenkins - but I could hardly imagine anything more uncouth during dinner than my turning toward the kitchen and hollering "Frankie!" .. Where is this leading to, Mr. Garrison?
SHAW: It adds a taste of elegance for which I must confess a weakness for now and then. I call him Smedley. His real name is Frankie Jenkins - but I could hardly imagine anything more uncouth during dinner than my turning toward the kitchen and hollering "Frankie!" .. Where is this leading to, Mr. Garrison?
FERRIE: ( to Shaw ) You're mine, Mary. Go get the fucking tools out, bitch. Now! I want some ( to Shaw ) Come here, bitch. ( Ferrie grabs Shaw by the hair ) You want this? The only way you get this is do what I say. ( Ferrie whacks Shaw ) I'm the man. Don't ever forget it. ( Shaw begs and whines ) You want it? You want it? ( Ferrie spits on Shaw ) Fuck you and your rich friends. You're nothing but a rich whore! You're my woman! Get the cat! ( to young man ) Strip! Now, woman. I want to see
FERRIE: ( to Shaw ) Come here, bitch. ( Ferrie grabs Shaw by the hair ) You want this? The only way you get this is do what I say. ( Ferrie whacks Shaw ) I'm the man. Don't ever forget it. ( Shaw begs and whines ) You want it? You want it? ( Ferrie spits on Shaw ) Fuck you and your rich friends. You're nothing but a rich whore! You're my woman! Get the cat! ( to young man ) Strip! Now, woman. I want to see
JIM: ( in present ) Let me show you his picture. ( he hands Shaw a general photo of Ferrie )
SHAW: ( in present ) No. I'm sure I've never met anyone of such a bizarre appearance.
JIM: Does the name Clay Bertrand mean anything to you?
SHAW: Clay Bertrand? Clay Bertrand? I believe there was a man with a name similar to that who worked at the Chamber of Commerce. Is that the man you had in mind?
JIM: No, it was not. Do you know an attorney by the name of Dean Andrews?
SHAW: One meets so many attorneys in my business. No, I don't believe I know Dean Andrews.
SNAPPER: I'm hungry! When're we gonna eat!
LIZ: We're going to start without him and he'll be here for dessert. Snapper, you put that back!
VIRGINIA: I want a Shirley Temple!
SNAPPER: Me, too.
JASPER: ( disappointed ) When's Daddy coming, Mama?
LIZ: Soon. He's real sorry he can't start with us but he's promised to be here. Mr. Shaw, can you identify this man?
JIM: ( handing a photo to Shaw ) Mr. Shaw, can you identify this man?
SHAW: ( he looks up ) Are you claiming, Mr. Garrison, that Mr. Oswald also had dinner with me?
JIM: ( humorless ) Mr. Shaw, did you ever meet Lee Harvey You really have me consorting with a cast of sordid characters, don't you, Mr. Garrison.
SHAW: You really have me consorting with a cast of sordid characters, don't you, Mr. Garrison.
JIM: Please answer the question.
SHAW: Of course not! Such a pity, that assassination. In fact, I admired President Kennedy. A man with true panache, and a wife with impeccable
JIM: Mr. Shaw, this is an Italian newspaper article saying you were a member of the Board of Centro Mondo Commerciale in Italy, that this company was a creature of the CIA for the transfer of funds in Italy for illegal political-espionage activities. It says that this company was expelled from Italy for those activities.
SHAW: I'm well aware of this asinine article. And I am thinking very seriously of suing this rag of a It says that this company has heavily Fascist ties to the French secret army organization that tried to assassinate de Gaulle in 1960.
JIM: It says that this company has heavily Fascist ties to the French secret army organization that tried to assassinate de Gaulle in 1960.
SHAW: Nonsense. What next?
JIM: .and that this company is linked to the Schlumber tool company here in Houma, Louisiana - which is where their arms may have come from to David Ferrie and his Cubans.
SHAW: Mr. Garrison, you're reaching. I am an international businessman. The Trade Mart which I founded is America's commercial pipeline to Latin America. I trade everywhere. I am accused, as are all businessmen, of all things. I somehow go about my business, make money, help society the best I can and try to promote free trade in this world.
JIM: Mr. Shaw, have you ever been a contract agent with the Central Intelligence Agency?
SHAW: ( with powerful contempt ) And if I was, Mr. Garrison. do you think I would be here today. talking to somebody like you?
JIM: No, people like you don't have to, I guess - people like you walk between the raindrops.
SHAW: ( rising ) May I go? Regardless of what you may think of me, Mr. Garrison, I am a patriot first and foremost.
JIM: I've spent half my life in the United States military serving and defending this great country, Mr. Shaw, and you're the first person I ever met who considered it an act of patriotism to kill his own president.
SHAW: Now just a minute, sir! You're way out of line!
BILL: Come on, chief. I'm sorry, Mr. Shaw, it's getting late. That's all the questions we have. Thank you for your honesty and for coming in today.
SHAW: I enjoyed meeting with you gentlemen, and you, Miss Cox. It was most pleasant. I wish to extend to each of you - and to each of your families - my best wishes for a happy Easter.
JIM: ( beat, excited ) "One may smile and smile and be a villain." Goddammit! We got one of
JASPER: Daddy! Where have you been?
JIM: ( kisses Liz ) Hi, Freckle Face.
LIZ: ( seething ) Tough day.
JIM: Tough day.
LIZ: My sympathies.
JIM: Liz, I'm really sorry. The meeting went much longer than expected.
LIZ: We waited for you. hours, Jim. You could have telephoned, for God's sake. It's Easter! You promised, I don't know what to say except I'm sorry. I just don't have rabbits on my mind.
JIM: I don't know what to say except I'm sorry. I just don't have rabbits on my mind.
LIZ: I think you care more about John Kennedy than your family! All day long the kids are asking, "Where's Daddy?" What am I supposed to tell your kids, Jim!
JIM: I don't know what to tell them. How 'bout the truth - I'm doing my job to make sure they can grow up in a country where justice won't be an arcane, vanished idea they read about in history books, like the dinosaurs or the lost continent of Atlantis.
LIZ: That sounds dandy, but it doesn't replace a father and a husband on Easter Day.
JIM: ( angry, turns away ) It's going to get worse, honey.
LOU: Congratulations, Boss - you're page
JIM: ( striding into his office reading the paper ) Goddamn Sam!
LOU: And it ain't pretty ."the AD has spent more than $8,000 on unexplained travel and investigative expenses since November,
NUMA: They went to the public records and got the vouchers we requested for Shaw must've gotten them on our tail.
SUSIE: Shaw must've gotten them on our tail.
AL: Could be Ferrie, Martin, Andrews, any of 'em.
BILL: We didn't talk to Ruby 'cause of them and they're on our asses for a measly $8,000!
JIM: They hunted down the news, it's their business. Getting angry doesn't accomplish a damned thing, but this changes everything. We either pull out now or we go through some heavy flack together.
JIM: Bear in mind, each of you, this may affect the rest of your careers, your lives. .if any of you pull out, I assure you I will bear no ill feelings towards that person and will reassign you to regular duties.
JIM: There it is then. Thank you. It means very much to me. I'm giving this office $6,000 from my National Guard savings so we can continue. I will make speeches where I can to pick up additional money. Some local businessmen are putting together a fund for us and.
SHARON: ( coming in ) Mr. Garrison, what shall I tell them? They're piling up outside the door. They want a statement, the phones are going crazier than bugs on a
JIM: Neither confirm, deny, nor discuss, Sharon. Goodbye, ladies, gentlemen, I'm going home where I can get a decent day's work done.
NEWSMAN 11: ( editorial ) Mr. Garrison's own silence on the subject has raised some interesting questions. With taxpayer money has he uncovered some valuable new evidence or is he merely saving the information which will gain for him exposure on a national level? Mr. Garrison it seems, should have some
LOU: DAVE FERRIE ( V.O. ) ( very agitated )
LOU: Who is this?
LOU: FERRIE ( V.O. )
LOU: Dave, do you think we're out of our minds? The whole building's been a zoo since that broke. We can't get a thing done. Reporters crawling everywhere. You think we want that?
FERRIE: ( yelling ) Somebody planted that fucking story! And somebody tipped off the press I'm one of Garrison's fucking suspects. I can't go home. I'm out on the street. The maggots are everywhere! Do you know what you've done to me? It's all over the national news now. You know what you've done to me?
LOU: Calm down, Dave, what?
FERRIE: I'm a dead man! From here on, believe me, I'm a dead man.
LOU: What are you talking about, Dave? You weren't mentioned in the story. Don't jump to conclusions.
FERRIE: You think your investigation's been all that secret? You know, when you talk to people, they talk to other What did they.
LOU: What did they.
FERRIE: You still questioning any Cubans?
LOU: Dave, you know that's where this road leads.
FERRIE: It leads farther than that.
LOU: Dave, just calm down. Meet me in the lobby of the Fontainbleau in 20 minutes. I'll have a suite reserved for you under an assumed name.
FERRIE: ( unsure ) The Fontainbleau? 20 minutes?
LOU: ( hopeful ) Yeah. Come on, Dave, come on our side. I guarantee you the boss'll protect you. ( there's a long silence as Ferrie, torn, agonizes ) ( dreamy ) .give me protection?
FERRIE: ( dreamy ) .give me protection?
LOU: Yeah! He'd kill for you Dave. He likes you. Your mind.
FERRIE: I got no place to sleep. I'll meet you in 20 minutes.
KING: ( on TV ) President Kennedy said on one occasion, "Mankind must put an end to war, or war will put an end to mankind." I pray God that America will hear this before it's too late, because today we're fighting a war I'm convinced is one of the most unjust wars that has ever been fought in the history of the world.
LIZ: ( on the phone meanwhile, testy ) No, he's not here now. And he would not take calls here if he were! So please call the office number. Thank ( hangs up ) Two of them even had the gall to come to the door this afternoon, one all the way from England.
JIM: Did they live?
LIZ: It's not funny, Jim, I'm scared.
JIM: Don't be. Nothing to be scared about, honey, I been through four years of war - this is nothing.
KING: ( on TV ) .sending them 8,000 miles away to guarantee liberties in Southeast Asia which they have not found in Southwest Georgia or East Harlem. So we have been repeatedly faced with the cruel irony of watching Negro and white boys on TV screens as they kill and die for a nation that has been unable to seat them together in the same school.
LIZ: I haven't, Jim.
JIM: Nothing is going to happen to you. I won't let it.
LIZ: Leave us ALONE for God's sake! .Oh, it's Lou.
FERRIE: I'm caught in the middle. They're after me. It's almost over.
LOU: Listen, Dave, why don't we order some room service, have a bite, relax. I'll stay as long as you want.
FERRIE: I don't know who to trust anymore. Yeah, sure I could use a pot of hot coffee and a few packs of Camels. You got anything new in the You mean about the Cubans getting trained north of the lake?
JIM: You mean about the Cubans getting trained north of the lake?
FERRIE: ( incoherent ) Oh, you got that? Banister's pet project. Getting paid by the government to work against the government. Beautiful. What a mind he had, what a guy, Guy. He had all those files.
JIM: Who was paying you, Dave?
FERRIE: You think I was a getaway pilot for the assassination, don't you?
JIM: I don't know. Were you? Who you scared of, Dave?
FERRIE: Everybody! The Agency. The Mob. The Cubans. Yeah, follow the Cubans. Check them out. Here, in Dallas, Miami. Check out a guy named Eladio del Valle. My paymaster when I flew missions into Cuba - he's somewhere in Miami. You're on the right track.
FERRIE: Hold it! Hold it! I'm not cooperating with anyone. There's a death warrant for me, don't you get it? Wait a minute. You're not bugged, are you?
LOU: Dave, I always play square. No bugs. I'd love you to go on the record, but I"m in no hurry. Whenever you're I don't have much time. They don't even need bugs anymore. They got these fuckin' satellite waves. They put a bug in a friend of mine when he was born, right up his nostrils, subcutaneous, between his eyes. He was one of those products of a crossbreading experiment. A Nazi rocket scientist father and a Commie spy mother. You'd never believe half the shit the Agency does. I'm so fuckin' tired. Haven't slept since that shit article came out. Why'd you guys have to go and get me involved with this?
FERRIE: ( checking the room ) I don't have much time. They don't even need bugs anymore. They got these fuckin' satellite waves. They put a bug in a friend of mine when he was born, right up his nostrils, subcutaneous, between his eyes. He was one of those products of a crossbreading experiment. A Nazi rocket scientist father and a Commie spy mother. You'd never believe half the shit the Agency does. ( holding his neck ) I'm so fuckin' tired. Haven't slept since that shit article came out. Why'd you guys have to go and get me involved with this?
LOU: Did we involve you, Dave, or did Clay Shaw?
FERRIE: That cocksuckin' faggot! He's got me by the balls.
LOU: What do you mean?
FERRIE: Photographs - compromising stuff. And he'll use 'em. The Agency plays for keeps. I knew Oswald. He was in my Civil Air Patrol unit. I taught him everything. A "wanna be," y'know, nobody really liked him cause he was a snitch. I treated him good. He'd talk about his kid, y'know, really wanted her to grow up with a chance, but. He got a raw deal. The Agency fucked him. Just like they're gonna fuck me.
JIM: Let me get this straight, now. Clay Shaw is blackmailing you?
FERRIE: Fuckin' A. How do you think the Agency gets people to do their bullshit? Fuck knows what they got on Oswald! Who is it?
FERRIE: Who is it?
JIM: Was it the same Oswald, Dave, that was in Dallas, or was it an Same one. I didn't know no
FERRIE: Same one. I didn't know no
JIM: Did you take a good look at the TV when they had Oswald?
FERRIE: ( shrugs, can't be bothered ) Black, black - just give it to me. ( takes the fresh coffee from Lou, lights a Camel ) Shit. I'm so exhausted. My neck is killing me. I've got cancer. Had it for years. I been working with mice, y'know, trying to come up with a cure.
JIM: Dave, can I just ask you this directly? Did you ever work for the
CIA?: ( laughs ) You make it sound like some remote fuckin' experience in ancient history. Man, you never leave the Agency. Once they got you, you're in for And Shaw?
FERRIE: ( laughs ) You make it sound like some remote fuckin' experience in ancient history. Man, you never leave the Agency. Once they got you, you're in for And Shaw?
JIM: And Shaw?
FERRIE: Shaw's an "untouchable", man - highest clearance. Shaw, Oswald, the Cubans - all Agency.
JIM: What about Ruby?
FERRIE: Jack? Jack was a pimp. A bagman in Dallas for the Mob. He used to run guns to Castro when he was still on our side. Check out Jack Youngblood. Shit - we almost had Castro. Then we tried to whack him. Everybody's flipping sides all the time. It's fun 'n' games, man fun 'n' games.
LOU: What about the mob, Dave? How do they figure in this?
FERRIE: They're Agency, too. Don't you get it? CIA and Mafia together. Trying to whack out the Beard. Mutual interests. They been doing it for years. There's more to this than you dream. FBI fucking hates the CIA. Navy Intelligence got something to do with it too. Check out "Alan Pope" in Miami. Jack Youngblood. Bill Harvey. Colonel Roselli. The shooter, I hear, was a Dallas cop - the bagman at Ruby's club. I heard he shot his own partner. Got that? Check out the rich fucks in Dallas. H.L. Hunt. He's dirty. That's all I know. But the Agency always runs the show. Check out something called "Mongoose" Operation Mongoose. Government, Pentagon stuff, they're in charge, but who the fuck pulls whose chain who the fuck knows, fun 'n' games man - check out Southeast Asia - that's the next big number - the heroin trail. "Oh, what a deadly web we weave when we practice to Then who killed the President?
JIM: Then who killed the President?
FERRIE: Oh man, why don't you stop. This is too fuckin' big for you! Who did Kennedy? It's a mystery wrapped in a riddle inside an enigma. Even the shooters don't fuckin' know! Don't you get it yet? I can't be talking like this. They're gonna kill me. I'm gonna die! I don't know what happened. All I wanted in the world was to be a Catholic priest - live in a monastery, study ancient Latin manuscripts, pray, serve God. But I had this one terrible, fatal weakness. They defrocked me. And then I started to lose everything.
FERRIE: Shit! Forgot to glue this fuckin' rug today. You know, at one time I even had a full head of hair like everyone else. And then I lost that. That fuckin' Clay Shaw. I hate the bastard. All I got left is in his rotten, bloody hands. He tipped the newspapers - I know it. That's how the Agency works. They use people, chew them up, spit 'em out. Now it's my turn.
JIM: ( empathetic ) Dave, it's going to be okay. Just talk to us on the record and we'll protect you. I guarantee it.
FERRIE: They'll get to you, too - they'll destroy you. They're untouchable, I'm so fucking exhausted I can't see Get some rest, Dave, and you'll feel better in the morning. We'll talk Yeah, yeah. But leave me alone for awhile. I got to make some calls.
JIM: Get some rest, Dave, and you'll feel better in the morning. We'll talk Yeah, yeah. But leave me alone for awhile. I got to make some calls.
FERRIE: Yeah, yeah. But leave me alone for awhile. I got to make some calls.
LOU: Whatever you say, Dave. I'll be home. Okay?
FRENCH REPORTER: ( waving credentials ) Paris Match. We are the largest magazine in all of France.
SOVIET REPORTER: My name is Bulgarinov. I am with Literaturnaya Gazeta of Moscow.
AMERICAN REPORTER: Bill Turner. Ramparts.
MAILMAN: Coming through, out of the way.
RECEPTIONIST: You know who killed the President? Mr. Garrison is busy but his
CAESAR: ( raising arm ) Hail! Et tu, Brutus?
BILL: And you, too, my friend.
NUMA: Love a duck! It takes twenty minutes to get into this office these days. Are we famous or what?
JIM: Notorious is more like it. "Jim Garrison is right. There has been a conspiracy in New Orleans - but it's a plot of Garrison's own making". and this - "one of the D.A.'s investigators offered an unwilling witness $3000 if only he would fill in the facts of the alleged meeting to plot the death of the President". How can they write that? Where did they come up with this? . "A charlatan," "power-mad," a "hulking
D.A.": ( New York Post ) "Morbid Frolic in New Orleans."
BILL: The crazies have taken over the asylum! It's a zoo out there.
NUMA: Sensational garbage sells newspapers, Jim. What else is new? Look at the thousands of letters you're getting. That's where the heart of the country "Dear Mr. Garrison, God bless you for having the courage to go after the murderers of President Kennedy. Please don't stop till they're behind bars. I am a beautician here in Hannibal, Missouri, and my husband is a janitor in the local high school. We have four kids and not an extra lot of money but we enclose a contribution to help with your work. We are praying for you. God bless, Judith Hardy, Hannibal, Missouri."
NUMA: That's what it's about, boss. For every lousy article in the press there's a hundred of these.
BILL: That's fine, Numa, but what about all the people who aren't writing letters. They're sitting home reading all these lies. I just heard NBC crew's in town to do a "White Paper" - not on the Kennedy killing, but on us. One of their top guys, Harry Stoner, is talking to everybody he can find about you, boss.
JIM: Oh Jesus, Stoner!. Why doesn't he call me?
NUMA: ( to Bill ) What do you want to do, Bill - fold up and close the store? You sound like it.
BILL: Look, this is bigger than all of us. We can't try a case in this
SHARON: Mr. Miller's been waiting.
JIM: ( remembering ) Oh! Send him in. ( to Numa ) Denver oilman wants to support the ( specifically to Bill ) Bill, I know what you're thinking, but sometimes when it makes no sense that's exactly when you just gotta stick to it, head down.
JIM: Welcome, Mr. Miller. Jim Garrison. Would you care for some coffee?
MILLER: Yes, thank you, Mr. Garrison. Your coffee's almost Turkish down here but I could get used to it.
MILLER: I'm glad you could find time to see me. I flew down from Denver this morning on my private jet.
JIM: Yes, your letter indicated you were in he oil business up there.
MILLER: I've done quite well in Denver, Mr. Garrison, but I have to admire someone like you - and I have the means to back up what I say.
JIM: We can use all the support we can get. I think these might interest
JIM: They've been enlarged and show a lot of detail.
MILLER: Splendid, love to see them.
MILLER: Where were you? Europe, Pacific?
JIM: You were lucky. I spent three years in the Pacific. I've never seen an avenue with such a profusion of bail-bonding companies. Why is that?
MILLER: You were lucky. I spent three years in the Pacific. I've never seen an avenue with such a profusion of bail-bonding companies. Why is that?
JIM: ( nettled by Miller's moving around ) I imagine because this is the Criminal District Court Building ( showing a photo ) This is an enlargement of a potential shooter standing behind the picket fence. We.
MILLER: I know about that shot. A terrible How much do you have for carrying on your investigation?
JIM: If you must know, virtually nothing.
MILLER: How many men are working with you on Less than you would guess. Most days two to three assistant D.A.'s. A handful of police investigators.
JIM: Less than you would guess. Most days two to three assistant D.A.'s. A handful of police investigators.
MILLER: That's all you've had all this time?
JIM: That's it.
MILLER: I admire you, Mr. Garrison. How did you manage to make your way into Guy Banister's operation?
JIM: That was never in he newspapers, Mr.
MILLER: I'm going to be very frank with you. You've done a great job, an astounding job considering the limited resources available to you. But the best you can ever hope for is to stir up a lot of confusion. You're not going to do this country any good, and you're not going to do yourself any You don't belong here. On this Mickey Mouse street with that cheap strip of bail bond shops.
JIM: The job manages to keep me pretty Nonsense. You should be in a job where you can make decisions that have impact, affect the world. Here you're trying to climb up the steep side of Mount Everest.
MILLER: Nonsense. You should be in a job where you can make decisions that have impact, affect the world. Here you're trying to climb up the steep side of Mount Everest.
MILLER: I propose you accept an appointment to the bench in Federal District Court and move into a job worthy of your talent. Do you have any idea, do you have any conception of how easily such an appointment can be arranged?
JIM: And what would I have to do?
MILLER: Stop your investigation. it was a magnificent effort but it's over and done with. The press is already on your behind and that's only the beginning, my boy, only the beginning.
JIM: How long do you think it would take me to be appointed?
MILLER: ( smiling, thinking Jim is hooked ) Well, ordinarily these things take a long time. But in your case, with your record it can be expedited - easily. I guarantee it.
JIM: Who are you, Mr. Miller? You see that helmet over there? I picked that up at the Dachau concentration camp when we liberated it in 1945. It was the most horrifying sight I've ever seen, Mr. Miller. Pyramids of decaying, stinking bones and skin one on top of the other. I don't enjoy looking at that swastika every day, Mr. Miller, but I keep it there to remind me of what can happen when a country turns from free democratic principles to Fascism, when a few madmen turn human beings into digits and millions sit in silence and do nothing about
JIM: Mr. Miller, you and I have met under a great misunderstanding. I haven't the remotest interest in becoming a Federal Judge. And nothing is going to keep me from going ahead with my investigation of John Kennedy's
JIM: Bill, Mr. Miller and I have finished our conversation. Would you show him out?
JIM: Those bastards! That's proof enough right there of what we're up against. The whole goddamn Federal Government, Well, they offered you the carrot, and you turned it down. you know what's coming next, don't you, boss?
BILL: Well, they offered you the carrot, and you turned it down. you know what's coming next, don't you, boss?
HUNT.": Boss, I tell you something or somebody is putting tremendous heat on David Ferrie. If we sit on our behinds any longer, I don't think the guy's going to hold on.
LOU: Boss, I tell you something or somebody is putting tremendous heat on David Ferrie. If we sit on our behinds any longer, I don't think the guy's going to hold on.
SUSIE: ( raps the newspaper ) Look at this bullshit! He keeps changing what he says. We can't possibly call him to a Grand Jury.
JIM: Susie, watch the language, would you My instinct is that Ferrie is going to keep on deteriorating, and we'll end up getting more out of him when he finally cracks. If we call him now, he might freeze up and we could lose the best shot we've ever had.
AL: My instinct is that Ferrie is going to keep on deteriorating, and we'll end up getting more out of him when he finally cracks. If we call him now, he might freeze up and we could lose the best shot we've ever had.
LOU: You don't get it, guys - he can't go down any further. We got to protect him full time.
JIM: ( rises, looks at his watch ) I have a plane to catch. going to Washington. An interesting lead, says he's closely connected to these events, but he won't come down here. I know what you're going through with Ferrie, Lou. We'll talk I'm onto Ferrie's Cuban paymaster, Eladio del Valle, in Miami. I gotta get him in, boss. I need more men - I can't even pull the teams to watch Ferrie. This is our case!
LOU: I'm onto Ferrie's Cuban paymaster, Eladio del Valle, in Miami. I gotta get him in, boss. I need more men - I can't even pull the teams to watch Ferrie. This is our case!
NUMA: HOLD IT, CHIEF. You just need some sleep, Lou. It won't look so bad when.
JIM: ( to Lou ) You just need some sleep, Lou. It won't look so bad when.
JIM: What the hell is.
NUMA: Williams found this in your office. We think the conference room is also bugged. And maybe the phones. The whole place needs debugging. I don't believe it!
JIM: I don't believe it!
SUSIE: Bugging the District Attorney's office of New Orleans! It's outrageous!
SHARON: It's urgent for you, Mr. Ivon.
NUMA: Well, believe what you want, boss, but we got to be more careful. All these new volunteers, any one of them could be.
JIM: Okay, you handle it, Numa. I don't have time for this nonsense. We've obviously got the bastards worried now. I'm going to Washington.
LOU: Dave Ferrie's dead. The body was found at his apartment two hours
JIM: ( to chief police officer ) This case is in our jurisdiction. I don't want anyone from a Federal agency in here without an explicit Federal court order. You got that, ( Hank looks at him weirdly )
NEWSMAN 10: Was Ferrie murdered, Mr. Garrison? Do you have any leads?
JIM: What's it look like, Nick?
CORONER: I don't see any violence, Jim. Heart attack, maybe an aneurysm. Looks like natural causes.
BILL: It's addressed to no one and no signature. "To leave this life is, for me, a sweet prospect. I find nothing in it that is desirable and on the other hand, everything that is loathsome."
LOU: Pretty flowery for Dave Ferrie.
FERRIE'S BEDROOM: Jim hands Lou the medicine bottle.
LOU: I took it once for a low thyroid It raises the metabolism, Lou. Did David Ferrie strike you as the kind of person who had a low I'd say the opposite - hypertension.
JIM: I took it once for a low thyroid It raises the metabolism, Lou. Did David Ferrie strike you as the kind of person who had a low I'd say the opposite - hypertension.
LOU: I'd say the opposite - hypertension.
JIM: Ferrie was the only one to express some kind of remorse about this whole thing. I think it got him killed.
SUSIE: Boss, we just got bad news from Miami. They found Ferrie's Cuban friend - Eladio del Valle - this morning, hacked to death with a machete in his car. He was tortured, shot in the heart at point-blank range and his skull was split open with an Jesus - if that ain't the Devil's piss! Those bastards!
LOU: Jesus - if that ain't the Devil's piss! Those bastards!
BILL: Found another note, same thing, no name, no signature. "When you receive this, I will be quite dead, so no answer will be possible. I offered you love. All I got in return in the end was a kick in the teeth."
JIM: Jesus, they must've been hard pressed to come up with that one.
JIM: ( gives the coroner the empty bottle ) Nick, what would happen if a man suffering from hypertension were to take an entire bottle of Proloid?
CORONER: He'd die pretty quick, either a heart storm or a ruptured blood vessel in the brain.
JIM: Can you ascertain if there's Proloid in his system?
CORONER: Not in a routine autopsy, but if we looked at the spinal fluid, there might be a high level of iodine, but it's difficult to know. Whatcha thinkin', Jim?
JIM: Well, it doesn't make sense, Nick - he was afraid of dying, then he kills himself in a way that leaves no trace, but he leaves two unsigned suicide If it's a suicide, I seen weirder,
CORONER: ( shrugs, skeptical ) If it's a suicide, I seen weirder, ( exits )
BILL: The fact is he's gone, chief, and so's our case.
LOU: Not unless we go for Shaw now.
BILL: With whose testimony? Willie O'Keefe? A male prostitute. Jack Martini? A drunk? Vernon Bundy? A dope fiend. Shaw's got respect, the newspaper editors, the American Bar Association - they're not.
SUSIE: I'm afraid I'm with Bill on this one. We haven't got the goods yet.
LOU: We wait, Shaw's gonna get whacked. Oswald, Ruby, Ferrie, del Valle, Banister, Bowers. how many corpses you lawyers gotta see to figure out what's going on?
JIM: All right, all right. Break it up.
BILL: Where you going, boss?
JIM: I don't know, Bill, I just don't Hey, where y'at, Frank? You're wasting your time here. Big Jim gave strict orders. No FBI allowed.
FRANK: Hey, where y'at, Frank? You're wasting your time here. Big Jim gave strict orders. No FBI allowed.
BILL: Hey, where y'at, Frank? You're wasting your time here. Big Jim gave strict orders. No FBI allowed.
FRANK: It's you I want to talk to, Bill.
BILL: ( laughs ) Boss would fry me in hog fat if he ( motions to car )
FRANK: ( getting in the car ) Your boss got a serious problem, Bill. Real serious. We know what's been going on at your office
BILL: ( smiles ) Yeah, I guess you do.
FRANK: You've got nothin', Bill. I'm talking as a friend now. You're riding on the Titanic. Time to jump off before you get destroyed along with Garrison.
BILL: Frank, I don't want to hear it.
FRANK: Senator Long set your boss up, my
FRANK: Who do you think fed him that information? Garrison's going down. We're talking your career here, Bill, your life. You're a young guy. we know you're working that Castro thing.
BILL: No, I'm not.
FRANK: Yes, you are. Look we know Oswald didn't pull that trigger. Castro did. But if that comes out, there's gonna be a war, boy - millions of people are gonna die. That's a hell of a lot more important than Jim Goddammit, look at me when I talk to you! You're too goddamn self- opinionated, now shut up. If you got a brain in that thick skull of yours, listen to me. Listen real
X: Jim Garrison?
JIM: ( shakes hands ) I'm glad you came. I'm sorry about the precautions.
X: ( shakes hands ) I'm glad you came. I'm sorry about the precautions.
JIM: Well, I just hope it was worth my while, Mr.
X: I could give you a false name, but I won't. Just call me X.
JIM: I've already been warned by the Agency, Mr. Whoever. If this is another type of threat, I don't.
X: I'm not with the Agency, Mr. Garrison, and I assume if you've come this far, what I have to say interests you. But I'm not going to name names, or tell you who or what I represent. Except to say - you're close, you're closer than you think.
X: Everything I'm going to tell you is classified top secret. I was a soldier, Mr. Garrison. Two wars. I was one of those secret guys in the Pentagon that supplies the military hardware - the planes, bullets, rifles - for what we call "black operations" - "black ops", assassinations, coup d'etats, rigging elections, propoganda, psych warfare and so forth. World War II - Rumania, Greece, Yugoslavia, I helped take the Nazi intelligence apparatus out to help us fight the Communists. Italy '48 stealing elections, France '49 breaking strikes - we overthrew Quirino in the Philippines, Arbenz in Guatemala, Mossadegh in Iran. Vietnam in '54, Indonesia '58, Tibet '59 we got the Dalai Lama out - we were good, very good. Then we got into the Cuban thing. Not so good. Set up all the bases for the invasion supposed to take place in October '62. Khrushchev sent the missiles to resist the invasion, Kennedy refused to invade and we were standing out there with our dicks in the wind. Lot of pissed-off people, Mr. Garrison, you understand? I'll come to that later. I spent much of September '63 working on the Kennedy plan for getting all U.S. personnel out of Vietnam by the end of '65. This plan was one of the strongest and most important papers issued from the Kennedy White House. Our first 1,000 troops were ordered home for Christmas. Tensions were high. In November '63, one week after the murder of Vietnamese President Diem in Saigon, and two weeks before the assassination of our President.
X: .a strange thing happened. I was sent by my superior officer, call him Y, to the South Pole as the military escort for a group of international VIP's. This trip had nothing to do with my nine years of work in Special Operations. It was sort of a "paid vacation".
X: It wasn't until I was on my way back in New Zealand that I read of the President's murder. That was 2 in the afternoon the next day New Zealand time, but already the papers had the entire history of an unknown 24-year- old man, Oswald - a studio picture, detailed biographical data, Russian information - and were pretty sure of the fact he'd killed the President alone, although it took them four more hours to charge him with the murder in Texas. It felt as if, well, a cover story was being put out like we would in a black op.
X: Anyway, after I came back I asked myself why was I, the chief of special ops, selected to travel to the South Pole at that time to do a job that any number of others could have done? One of my routine duties if I had been in Washington would've been to arrange for additional security in Texas. The Secret Service is relatively small, and by custom the military will augment them. I checked it out when I got back and sure enough, I found out someone had told the 112th Military Intelligence Group at 4th Army Headquarters at Fort Sam Houston to "stand down" that day, over the protests of the unit Commander, a Colonel Reich.
X: Now this is significant, because it is standard operating procedure, especially in a known hostile city like Dallas, to supplement the Secret Service. Even if we had not allowed the bubbletop to be removed from the limousine, we'd've put at least 100 to 200 agents on the sidewalks, without question! There'd already been several attempts on de Gaulle's life in France. Only a month before in Dallas UN Ambassador Adlai Stevenson had been spit on and hit. We'd have arrived days ahead of time, studied the route, checked all the We never would've allowed all those wide-open empty windows overlooking Dealey. never. We would have had our own snipers covering the area. The moment a window went up they'd have been on the radio. We would've been watching the crowds - packages, rolled up newspapers, a coat over an arm, never would have let a man open an umbrella along the way - Never would've allowed that limousine to slow down to 10 miles per hour, much less take that unusual curve at Houston and Elm. You would have felt an Army presence in the streets that day, but none of this happened. It was a violation of the most basic protection codes we have. And it is the best indication of a massive plot in Dallas. Who could have best done that? People in my business, Mr. Garrison. People like my superior officer could've told Col. Reich, "Look - we have another unit coming from so and so providing security. You'll stand down." That day, in fact, there were some individual Army Intelligence people in Dallas and I'm still trying to figure out who and why. But they weren't protecting the client. One of them, by the way, was caught in the Book Depository after police sealed it off.
X: Army Intell had a "Harvey Lee Oswald" on file, but all those files have been destroyed. Many strange things were happening that day, and Lee Harvey Oswald had nothing to do with them. We had the entire Cabinet on a trip to the Far East. We had a third of a combat division returning from Germany in the air above the United States at the time of the shooting, and at 12:34 P.M., the entire telephone system went dead in Washington for a solid hour, and on the plane back to Washington, word was radioed from the White House Situation Room to Lyndon Johnson that one individual performed the assassination. Does that sound like a bunch of coincidences to you, Mr. Garrison? Not for one moment. The cabinet was out of the country to get their perception out of the way. The troops were in the air for possible riot control. The phones didn't work to keep the wrong stories from spreading if anything went wrong with the plan. Nothing was left to chance. I bet you there were even backup teams and cars on the other side of the underpass in the event that Kennedy got through wounded. They would have moved in with vehicles like they did with de Gaulle. He could not be allowed to escape alive.
X: I never though things were the same after that. Vietnam started for real. There was an air of, I don't know, make-believe in the Pentagon and the CIA. Those of us who'd been in secret ops since the beginning knew the Warren Commission was fiction, but there was something. deeper, uglier. And I knew Allen Dulles very well. I briefed him many a time in his house. He was also General Y's benefactor. But for the life of me I still can't figure out why Dulles was appointed to investigate Kennedy's death. The man who had fired him. I got out in '64. I retired from the U.S. Air I never realized Kennedy was so dangerous to the establishment. Is that why?
JACKIE KENNEDY: I never realized Kennedy was so dangerous to the establishment. Is that why?
X: ( chuckles ) That's the real question, isn't it - "Why?" - the "how" is just "scenery" for the suckers. Oswald, Ruby, Cuba, Mafia, it keeps people guessing like a parlor game, but it prevents them from asking the most important question - Why? Why was Kennedy killed? Who benefitted? Who has the power to cover it up?. You know in '61 right after the Bay of Pigs - very few people know about this - I participated in drawing up National Security Action Memos 55, 56, and 57. These are crucial documents, classified top secret, but basically in them Kennedy instructs General Lemnitzer, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, that from here on forward.
X: . the Joint Chiefs of Staff would be wholly responsible for all covert paramilitary action in peacetime. This basically ended the reign of the CIA - "splintered it", as J.F.K. promised he would, into a "thousand pieces", - and now was ordering the military to help. This was unprecedented. I can't tell you the shock waves this sent along the corridors of power in Washington. This and, of course, firing Allen Dulles, Richard Bissell, and General Charles Cabell, all of them sacred cows of Intell since World War II. You got some very upset people here.
X: Kennedy's directives were never really implemented, because of bureaucratic resistance, but one of the results was that the Cuban operation was turned over to my department as "Operation Mongoose", which meant that people like my superior officer, General Y, took over the Cuban personnel that were being trained to invade Cuba - and the bases like the training camp at Pontchartrain in your home state that were closed down by Kennedy. and that's how the "black ops" people, people like General Y, ended up taking the rules of covert warfare they'd used abroad and brought'em into this country. Now they had the people, the equipment, bases and the motivation. check out an old CIA man, Bill Harvey - ran something called "Executive Action", which carried out foreign assassinations. Harvey was also involved with the fake defection program that got Oswald into Russia. Check out the Cabell brothers. Interesting links to this case.
X: .don't underestimate the budget cuts Kennedy called for in March of '63 either - close to 52 military installations in 25 states, 21 overseas bases, you're talking big money. You know how many helicopters have been lost in Vietnam? About three thousand so far. Who makes them? Bell Helicopter. Who owns Bell? Bell was near bankruptcy when the First National Bank of Boston approached the CIA about developing the helicopter for Indochina usage. How 'bout the f-111 fighters? General Dynamics in Fort Worth. Who owns that? Find out the defense budget since the war began. $75 going on a hundred billion . $200 billion'll be spent before it ends. In 1950 it was $13 billion. No war, no money. Sometimes I think the organizing principle of any society is for war. The authority of the state over it's people resides in it's war powers. Even Eisenhower - military hero of WWII - warned us about it: "beware the military - industrial complex", he said. Kennedy wanted to end the Cold War in his second term. He wanted to call of the moon race in favor of cooperation with the Soviets. He signed a treaty with the Soviets to ban nuclear testing, he refused to invade Cuba in '62, and he set out to withdraw from Vietnam. But that all ended on November 22, 1963.
X: Only four days after J.F.K. was shot, Lyndon Johnson signed National Security Memo 273, which essentially reversed Kennedy's new withdrawal policy and gave the green light to the covert operations against North Vietnam that provoked the Gulf of Tonkin incident. In that document lay the Vietnam War.
JIM: I don't. I can't believe it. They killed him because he wanted to change things. In our time - in our country?
X: ( shrugging ) Kings are killed, Mr. Garrison. Politics is power, nothing more. But don't believe me. Don't trust me. Do your own work, your own The size of this is. beyond me. No chance in hell, Mr. Garrison. I'd be arrested and gagged, declared insane and hospitalized. maybe worse. You, too. I can only give you background, you got to find the foreground, the little things. Keep digging. Y'know you're the only person to ever bring a trial in the murder of John Kennedy. That's important - it's historic.
JIM: The size of this is. beyond me. No chance in hell, Mr. Garrison. I'd be arrested and gagged, declared insane and hospitalized. maybe worse. You, too. I can only give you background, you got to find the foreground, the little things. Keep digging. Y'know you're the only person to ever bring a trial in the murder of John Kennedy. That's important - it's historic.
X: No chance in hell, Mr. Garrison. I'd be arrested and gagged, declared insane and hospitalized. maybe worse. You, too. I can only give you background, you got to find the foreground, the little things. Keep digging. Y'know you're the only person to ever bring a trial in the murder of John Kennedy. That's important - it's historic.
JIM: I haven't yet. I don't have much of a case.
X: ( rising to leave ) But you don't have a choice anymore. You've become a significant threat to the national security structure. They would've killed you already, but you got a lot of light on you. Instead, they're gonna destroy your credibility; they already have in many circles in this town. You're some kinda ego-crazed southern caricature to many folks. Be honest - the best chance you got is come up with a case, something, anything, make arrests, stir the shitstorm. You gotta hope to reach a point of critical mass where other people will come forward and the government will crack. Remember, fundamentally people are suckers for the truth, and the truth is on your side, 'bubba. I hope you get a break.
LOU: Mr. Shaw, you're under arrest, charged with conspiracy and entering into an agreement with other persons for the specific purpose of committing the crime of murder of President John F. Kennedy in violation of.
LOU: .we have a warrant to search the
NUMA: It's either a Mardi Gras outfit, or we got the Marquis de Sade here, I don't care if he was doing it with giraffes in the zoo, Numa, it's none of our business. Let's keep this side of it quiet, shall we?
JIM: I don't care if he was doing it with giraffes in the zoo, Numa, it's none of our business. Let's keep this side of it quiet, shall we?
AL: When you're in a war, boss, you use every weapon you got.
JIM: Not one word. That's an order.
OFFICER: Name? First, middle, last.
SHAW: Clay Lavergne Shaw.
OFFICER HABIGHORST: 1313 Dauphine, New Orleans.
SHAW: 1313 Dauphine, New Orleans.
OFFICER HABIGHORST: Ever use any aliases?
SHAW: Clay Bertrand.
OFFICER HABIGHORST: Next of kin?
NEWSMAN 12: Mr. Shaw - What do you have to say?
ATTORNEY GENERAL: Yes, Mr. Shaw was included in our investigation and there was no connection found at all between Shaw and the President's assassin.
JIM: If Mr. Shaw had no connection to the assassination, why did the FBI investigate him? And why, if they did, is his name not mentioned once in the entire 26 volumes of the Warren Report, even it if is to clear his name? I doubt this Attorney General would qualify for my staff. No, I don't think so. Mr. Garrison has presented absolutely nothing publicly to contradict our findings. As yet I have not heard one fact to refute the Commission determination that Lee Oswald was the lone killer.
CHIEF JUSTICE: No, I don't think so. Mr. Garrison has presented absolutely nothing publicly to contradict our findings. As yet I have not heard one fact to refute the Commission determination that Lee Oswald was the lone killer.
JIM: I congratulate Mr. Shaw. Most witnesses have to wait for trial before they're allowed to produce sacred cows like the Chief Justice of the land as a character witness, who is of course not under oath and free from the laws of perjury.
NEWSMAN 13: Mr. Garrison, if what you say is even partly true in this case, you realize you are damaging the credibility of our government, possibly destroying it?
JIM: Let me ask you. is a government worth preserving when it lies to the people? It has become a dangerous country, sir, when you can't trust anyone anymore, when you can't tell the truth. I say let justice be done, though the heavens fall.
JIM: In the sheriff's report, Mrs. Mercer, it says you were at Dealey Plaza two hours before the assassination but Yes, it was about 11 in the morning. I was driving west on Elm Street toward the Triple Underpass, in a rented car - a blue Valiant. I'll never forget that day.
MERCER: Yes, it was about 11 in the morning. I was driving west on Elm Street toward the Triple Underpass, in a rented car - a blue Valiant. I'll never forget that day.
MERCER: .there was quite a bit of traffic and I was stopped alongside a green pickup truck. It was very noticeable because it was blocking traffic and it was parked with two wheels on the curb. When I saw the gun, I thought - the Secret Service is not very secret.
MERCER: The next morning, Saturday, I went to the FBI office and the agents showed me photographs.
MERCER: I picked out three pictures that looked generally like the driver of the truck and then.
MERCER: That's the man.
FBI AGENT: ( to Second Agent ) Jack Ruby.
SECOND AGENT: What about these others? You said they might be him.
MERCER: They look a little like him. But I'm sure this is the man.
JIM: You mean you identified him on Saturday, the day before Ruby shot That's right. When I saw him on TV, I was shocked. I said to my family, "that was the man I saw in the truck."
MERCER: That's right. When I saw him on TV, I was shocked. I said to my family, "that was the man I saw in the truck."
JIM: ( skeptical ) But you didn't seem nearly so sure in your statement to the Warren That's what bothers me, Mr. Garrison. You see, they've been altered. My
MERCER: That's what bothers me, Mr. Garrison. You see, they've been altered. My
MERCER: This says "Mercer could not identify any of the photographs as being identical with the person she had observed slouched over the wheel of a green Ford pickup truck." That's not true. I recognized him and I told them so. They also said it was a dark green air conditioning truck, which it was not. And here. .on the Dallas Sheriff's report. This is really strange. See that notarized signature on the bottom of each page? That's not my signature. And there never was any notary present during any of my questioning. I guess that's all.
JIM: Mrs. Mercer, as a former FBI man, it's difficult to accept this.
MERCER: I know, but Mr. Garrison, the FBI is just not doing their job.
HUSBAND: I'm a Republican, Mr. Garrison, and I don't go in for this kind of government bashing, but I must tell you something's not right when they don't even bother to call Julia in front of the Warren Commission.
JIM: They didn't call a lot of people, Mr. Mercer. I think it's safe to say the Warren Report is a work of
LOU: Beverly, tell Mr. Garrison about the Carousel club.
LOU: Beverly, what about Lee? Oh, yeah. One time I came in, Jack introduces me to these two guys. He said, "Beverly, this is my friend Lee." and I didn't catch the other guy's name. He was a weird-looking guy with those funny little eyebrows. The other guy, Lee, didn't make much of an impression either. He wasn't good-looking or nuthin', he didn't look like he had any money, and he was in a bad mood, so I didn't pay him much mind. Well, I might not remember a name, but I always remember a face. When I saw him tow weeks later on the television, I screamed, "Oh, my God - that's him! That's Jack's friend!" I knew right then it had something to do with the Mafia. Well, about a week later, after she told the newspapers she'd met this guy Lee with Jack, Jada disappears off the face of the Never knew what happened to her till Herman offered to sell me her wardrobe. I said, "but Jada's coming back," and I remember the way he smiled. and I knew she was never coming back.
JIM: Will you testify, Beverly?
BEVERLY: I don't think so, sir.
LOU: I thought when we came here, we had an agreement.
BEVERLY: I just don't want to become another statistic like her. If they can kill the President, do you think they're gonna think twice about a two-bit showgirl like me?
LOU: We could call you in, Beverly.
JIM: I know the pressure you're under, Beverly. Don't think I don't. I understand.
PRICE: I saw a man run from this spot and go behind the Book Depository - 30 minutes later I gave this information to the Sheriff. I made it very clear to the Warren people one of the shots came from behind that picket fence. I heard the report and saw the smoke come out about 6 or 8 feet above the ground, right out from under those trees. There is no doubt whatsoever in my mind.
HOLLAND: I made it very clear to the Warren people one of the shots came from behind that picket fence. I heard the report and saw the smoke come out about 6 or 8 feet above the ground, right out from under those trees. There is no doubt whatsoever in my mind.
DODD: ( pointing ) .we, all four of us, all railroad men, standing here, seen about the same thing. The smoke came from behind the hedge - and a motorcycle policeman dropped his cycle in the street and run up the embankment.
HOLLAND: .we came around here to look for tracks. It rained that morning and we found a bunch of cigarette butts. Someone'd been standing about here.
LOU: This is a good spot, chief, for the head shot.
JEAN HILL: I was standing here next to my friend Mary Mooman, who took the photograph when he was killed. I jumped out in the street and yelled, "Hey Mr. President, look over here, we wanna take your picture." He looked up and then shots rang out. Mary fell to the ground right away, shouting, "Get down, they're shooting, get down, they're shooting." I knew it but I was moving to get closer to him. The driver had stopped - I don't know what was wrong with that driver. And then, out of the corner of my eye, I saw this flash of light, in the bushes and that last shot. just ripped his head off, I mean, blood, brains, just blew everything.
JEAN HILL: I jumped out in the street and yelled, "Hey Mr. President, look over here, we wanna take your picture." He looked up and then shots rang out. Mary fell to the ground right away, shouting, "Get down, they're shooting, get down, they're shooting." I knew it but I was moving to get closer to him. The driver had stopped - I don't know what was wrong with that driver. And then, out of the corner of my eye, I saw this flash of light, in the bushes and that last shot. just ripped his head off, I mean, blood, brains, just blew everything.
JEAN HILL: I looked up and saw smoke from the Knoll. And everything was frozen - seemed like people wasn't even breathing, like you're looking at a picture - except this one guy. I saw this one guy running from the Book Depository towards the railroad tracks. And that was the same man I saw on TV two days later shooting Oswald. That was Jack Ruby. No question about it.
JEAN HILL: It was him I was chasing up the Grassy Knoll, thinking our guys had shot back and maybe we got one of them. I don't know what I would have done if I had caught him, but I knew something terrible had happened and somebody had to do something. I never did catch him. All I saw in that parking area were railroad workers and Dallas' finest.
JEAN HILL: I never did catch him. All I saw in that parking area were railroad workers and Dallas' finest.
FIRST AGENT: Secret Service, ma'am. You're coming with us.
JEAN HILL: Oh no, I'm not. I don't know you. We gotta catch this shooter - don't you realize?
SECOND AGENT: ( grabbing her other shoulder ) I said you're coming with us. I want the pictures in your pocket.
JEAN HILL: I don't have any pictures! I have to go back and find my friend Mary. Lemme alone!
FIRST AGENT: Hush! Just smile and keep walking.
MAN: How many shots you say you heard?
JEAN HILL: Four to six.
MAN: That's impossible. You heard echoes .echoes. We have three bullets and three shots which came from the Book Depository and that's all we're willing to say.
JEAN HILL: No, I saw a guy shooting from over there. He was behind that fence. What are you going to do about it?
MAN: We have that taken care of. You only heard three shots and you are not to talk to anyone about this. No one, you hear?
JEAN HILL: He asked me why I thought I was in danger and I said:
JEAN HILL: Well if they can kill the President, they can certainly get me.
LAWYER: That doesn't make sense, Mrs. Hill. We have the man that killed the No, you don't!
JEAN HILL: No, you don't!
JEAN HILL: He kept trying to get me to change my story about the shots. He was getting hot under the collar, and telling the woman not to write when he wanted.
JEAN HILL: Look, do you want the truth, or just what you want me to say?
LAWYER: I want the truth.
JEAN HILL: The truth is that I heard between four and six shots. I'm not going to lie for you.
LAWYER: .you heard echoes.
JEAN HILL: No. I had guns all my life. I used to go turtle shooting.
LAWYER: I realize you're under a great deal of stress .. it's clouded your So off the record, he starts talking about my family, and even mentioned my marriage was in trouble like I didn't know it or something. He got angrier and angrier and then:
LAWYER: Look, we can put you in a mental institution. We can make you look crazier'n Marguerite Oswald, and everybody knows how crazy she is.
JIM: Are you willing to testify, Mrs.
JEAN HILL: ( without hesitation ) Damned right I would. Somebody's got to tell the truth around here 'cause the Government sure ain't doing it.
LOU: The Zapruder film establishes 3 shots in 5.6 seconds. Here. I'm Oswald. Time me.
JIM: Lou pulls, quickly recharges the bolt, fires, recycles, fires.
LOU: Between six and seven seconds.
JIM: Between six and seven seconds.
LOU: The key is the second and third shots came right on top of each other, and it takes a minimum 2.3 seconds to recycle this thing. The other problem is there was a tree right there. Blocking the first two shots at the time they occur in the Zapruder film.
JIM: Didn't Hoover say something about that? The leaves had fallen off in It was a Texas Live Oak, boss. It sheds it's leaves the first week of March. You try to hit a moving target at 88 yards through heavy foliage with this cheap 13-dollar sucker, the world's worst shoulder weapon. No way. The FBI tried two sets of tests and not one of their sharpshooters could match Oswald's performance. Not one. And Oswald was at best a medium shot. The scope was defective on it, too. I mean this is the whole essence of the case to me. The guy couldn't do the shooting. Nobody could. And they sold this lemon to the American The Zapruder film is the proof they didn't count on, Lou. We gotta get our hands on it.
LOU: It was a Texas Live Oak, boss. It sheds it's leaves the first week of March. You try to hit a moving target at 88 yards through heavy foliage with this cheap 13-dollar sucker, the world's worst shoulder weapon. No way. The FBI tried two sets of tests and not one of their sharpshooters could match Oswald's performance. Not one. And Oswald was at best a medium shot. The scope was defective on it, too. I mean this is the whole essence of the case to me. The guy couldn't do the shooting. Nobody could. And they sold this lemon to the American The Zapruder film is the proof they didn't count on, Lou. We gotta get our hands on it.
JIM: The Zapruder film is the proof they didn't count on, Lou. We gotta get our hands on it.
LOU: That means we gotta subpoena Time- Life on it.
JIM: ( looks out the window ) Why not just shoot Kennedy coming up Houston? There's plenty of time - he's out in the open - a frontal
LOU: I asked myself the same thing. Common sense. Even if you miss the first shot, if he accelerates you still got him for a second shot. No. the only reason for waiting to get him on Elm is you got him in a triangulated crossfire. You got him on a flat low trajectory from the front at the fence there.
LOU: .you put a third team there - in that building, on a low floor.
LOU: When Kennedy gets to the kill zone, it's a turkey shoot.
JIM: ( aiming ) How many men?
LOU: One shooter. One spotter on a radio. Maybe three teams. I'd say these were professional riflemen, chief, serious people. Hunters. patient. It takes skill to kill with a rifle, that's why there's been no execution of an executive with one in 200 years. "3-2-1. green!" Or else "Abort! Abort!"
LOU: Main Street's over there - the original parade route on the way to the Trade Mart. Too far right? Impossible shot.
LOU: So they changed the route to bring it this way.
JIM: Who do you think changed the parade Beats me. City officials. Secret Service. Dallas police. They did a dry run with Chief Curry a few days before. But they didn't bother running through Dealey. They stopped right there, said something like, "and afterwards there's only the freeway," and went home.
LOU: Beats me. City officials. Secret Service. Dallas police. They did a dry run with Chief Curry a few days before. But they didn't bother running through Dealey. They stopped right there, said something like, "and afterwards there's only the freeway," and went home.
JIM: You know who the mayor was?
LOU: Earle Cabell. And guess who his brother is?
JIM: Earle Cabell. And guess who his brother is?
LOU: General Charles Cabell. Deputy Director of the CIA. Fired by Kennedy in '61 because of the Bay of Pigs fiasco, he moved back to the Pentagon, called Kennedy a "traitor". When he came to New Orleans to address the Foreign Policy Association, you know who introduced him? Our friend Clay The Warren Commission call him?
JIM: General Charles Cabell. Deputy Director of the CIA. Fired by Kennedy in '61 because of the Bay of Pigs fiasco, he moved back to the Pentagon, called Kennedy a "traitor". When he came to New Orleans to address the Foreign Policy Association, you know who introduced him? Our friend Clay The Warren Commission call him?
LOU: The Warren Commission call him?
JIM: ( shaking his head ) His boss was the one on the Warren Commission who handled all the leads to the intelligence community.
LOU: Allen Dulles?
JIM: ( he nods ) Head of the CIA since '53. Kennedy fired them both. Cabell was his deputy for nine years. ( sickened ) Talk about the fox investigating the chicken coop. Now we'll have to subpoena them, Lou.
LOU: They're gonna love you, chief.
JIM: Maybe we should just call it a day, Lou. Go home. While we're still a little behind. We got two people killed, maybe more we never thought You never got anyone killed, boss. Their actions killed them years before. If we stopped now, it'd be even more wrong.
LOU: You never got anyone killed, boss. Their actions killed them years before. If we stopped now, it'd be even more wrong.
JIM: ( in present ) Subpoena them, Lou - Dulles, the Cabells, Time-Life. the whole damned lot of 'em!
AL: The U.S. Attorney in Washington "declines" to serve our subpoena on Allen Dulles, Charles Cabell, CIA Director Richard Helms, or any FBI agent we named.
JIM: Well, what do you expect from a pig but a grunt.
AL: Without them, it's going to be near impossible, chief, to prove Shaw's connection to the CIA. We got the same problem with the governors. All of them. Reagan in California won't give us Brading, Ohio refuses Orville Townsend, Texas on Arcacha, and Nebraska on Sandra Moffet.
BILL: What the hell is going on? Never before has an extradition request from this office been refused.
AL: We haven't tried to get Julia Anne Mercer in?
JIM: No, she could get hurt. If you believe what's happening to these other people.
NUMA: She's the best damn witness we have!
JIM: I just don't want to do it. What
NUMA: Hate mail here. Fan mail here. The bad news is the IRS has just requested an audit on your income from this I expected that two months ago, and they're wasting their time. The bad news is the National Guard has just asked me to resign after 18 Well, maybe that's good news - it was never as good as combat, but this is. Bill, any more on Oswald and Shaw?
JIM: ( he snorts ) I expected that two months ago, and they're wasting their time. The bad news is the National Guard has just asked me to resign after 18 ( we see his hurt ) Well, maybe that's good news - it was never as good as combat, but this is. Bill, any more on Oswald and Shaw?
BILL: Yeah. They were seen together in Clinton in early September. The Civil Rights Movement was running a voter registration drive.
BILL: .rumor is Shaw, a local boy, was working on some arms deal to discredit the civil rights movement. No one really knows what they were doing there, but everyone sure saw 'em. They stood out like cottonballs. I got whites and blacks saw 'em, but last time I checked there was nothing illegal with registering to vote. We still got the Negro junkie, Vernon Bundy, saw 'em talkin' at the seawall near Lake Pontchartrain. But it's tough, boss - no one wants to talk about Shaw. He's.
LOU: ( back to present ) You know you keep saying that.
BILL: Keep saying what?
LOU: You're not digging.
JIM: I think Clinton is a breakthrough. Shaw denies he knows Ferrie or Oswald. Is that right? It proves he's a liar. Keep on it, Bill.
SUSIE: This is interesting - are you ready for this? Oswald went to see the FBI two weeks before the assassination. It seems Special Agent Hosty made three routine visits to his house, supposedly to keep an eye on Marina Oswald.
OSWALD: I want to see Special Agent Hosty.
RECEPTIONIST: I'm sorry, he's not in. Can someone else help you?
OSWALD: Can I use a pen?
SUSIE: But what the note really said no one knows because his boss Shanklin told Oswald's dead now. There's no trial. Get rid of it. I don't even want this in the office. Get rid of it,
SHANKLIN: ( reading the note ) Oswald's dead now. There's no trial. Get rid of it. I don't even want this in the office. Get rid of it, ( he gives it back to Hosty )
JIM: ( in present ) This is just speculation, people, but what if the note was describing the assassination attempt on J.F.K.? ( the staff seem surprised by the thought ) Come on guys, think - that's the only reason to destroy it, because if it was any kind of threat, like Hosty said, they would've kept it 'cause it makes their case against the "angry lone nut" stronger! Remember the New Orleans meeting with Agent Quigley the day he got
JIM: .there again Quigley destroyed the notes of the meeting. I think we can raise the possibility that Oswald not only was an informant but that he may well have been the original source for the telex we have dated November 17 warning of the Kennedy assassination in Dallas on November
FROM DIRECTOR.": William Walter, the night clerk on duty here in the FBI office, gave me a copy of this. It went all over the country. Nothing was done, and the motorcade went ahead on schedule - and this wasn't even mentioned in the Warren Report! Read it, Al.
JIM: William Walter, the night clerk on duty here in the FBI office, gave me a copy of this. It went all over the country. Nothing was done, and the motorcade went ahead on schedule - and this wasn't even mentioned in the Warren Report! Read it, Al.
JIM: I have a hunch that from the get go, Oswald had infiltrated this group, probably Cubans or right-wing extremists. He was at the Book Depository that day, told to be there by their handlers, either to prevent the assassination or to take part in it. They coulda told him anything, either 1 ) they were going to close down the plotters that day, or 2 ) they were going to fake an attack on Kennedy to whip up public opinion against Russia or Cuba and reverse his policies - it doesn't really matter what they told him, 'cause he was under orders, he was a foot
OSWALD: ( to the two young Cubans ) I can get you in and up there. This is a shot out the southeast window of the sixth floor. That floor will be unoccupied between noon and one.
BULL: What about the elevator?
OSWALD: I can close it off. The only access is a stairwell.
BULL: We get them in as an air-conditioning No. A floor refurbishing group. Got the van, the uniforms.
RUBY: No. A floor refurbishing group. Got the van, the uniforms.
OSWALD: ( his back to the screen ) .if we can get the motorcade to turn from Main onto Houston, that'll do the trick, 'cause it'll slow down to make the turn here. You can't ( to the two young Cubans ) He's a dead duck.
BILL: I don't buy it, chief - why would the FBI cover it up? You're talking the whole FBI here. A telex that disappears from every single FBI office in the country?
JIM: There's a word - orders.
SUSIE: Or a cover up! Jesus, Bill, don't you have enough proof of the FBI's complicity now?
BILL: ( to Susie ) Maybe I have a little more respect for this country's institutions than you do, Susie. You tell me how the hell you can keep a conspiracy going between the Mob, the CIA, FBI, and Army Intelligence and who knows what else, when you know you can't even keep a secret in this room between 12 people! We got leaks everywhere! We're going to trial here! What the hell do we really got? Oswald, Ruby, Banister, Ferrie are dead. Shaw - maybe he's an agent, I don't know, but as a covert operator in my book he's wide open for blackmail 'cause of his homosexuality.
JIM: Shaw's our toehold, Bill. I don't know exactly what he is, where he fits, and I don't care. I do know he's lying through his teeth and I'm not gonna let go of him!
BILL: So for those reasons, you're going to trial against Clay Shaw, chief? Well, you're gonna lose! We should be investigating all our Mafia leads here in New Orleans - Carlos Marcello, Santos Trafficante - I can buy that a hell of a lot easier than the Government. Ruby's all Mob, knows Oswald, sets him up. Hoffa - Trafficante - Marcello, they hire some guns and they do Kennedy and maybe the Government doesn't want to open up a whole can o'worms there because it used the Mob to get to Castro. Y'know, Castro being assassinated sounds pretty wild to John Q. Citizen. So they close the book on J.F.K. It makes sense to I don't doubt their involvement, Bill, but at a low level. Could the Mob change the parade route, Bill, or eliminate the protection for the President? Could the Mob send Oswald to Russia and get him back? Could the Mob get the FBI, the CIA, and the Dallas Police to make a mess of the investigation? Could the Mob appoint the Warren Commission to cover it up? Could the Mob wreck the autopsy? Could the Mob influence the national media to go to sleep? And since when has the Mob used anything but .38's for hits, up close? The Mob wouldn't have the guts or the power for something of this magnitude. Assassins need payrolls, orders, times, schedules. This was a military-style ambush from start to finish. a coup d'etat with Lyndon Johnson waiting in the wings.
JIM: I don't doubt their involvement, Bill, but at a low level. Could the Mob change the parade route, Bill, or eliminate the protection for the President? Could the Mob send Oswald to Russia and get him back? Could the Mob get the FBI, the CIA, and the Dallas Police to make a mess of the investigation? Could the Mob appoint the Warren Commission to cover it up? Could the Mob wreck the autopsy? Could the Mob influence the national media to go to sleep? And since when has the Mob used anything but .38's for hits, up close? The Mob wouldn't have the guts or the power for something of this magnitude. Assassins need payrolls, orders, times, schedules. This was a military-style ambush from start to finish. a coup d'etat with Lyndon Johnson waiting in the wings.
BILL: Oh, now you're saying Lyndon Johnson was involved? The President of the United States?
JIM: I know this, Bill - Lyndon Johnson got $1 billion for his Texas friends, Brown and Root, to dredge Cam Ranh Bay for the military in Vietnam. That's just for openers.
BILL: Boss, are you calling the President a murderer?
JIM: If I'm so far from the truth, why is the FBI bugging our offices? Why are our witnesses being bought off and murdered? Why are Federal agencies blocking our extraditions and subpoenas when we were never blocked before?
BILL: Maybe 'cause there's some rogue element in the Government!
JIM: With a full-blown conspiracy to cover it up? Y'ever read your Shakespeare, Julius Caesar: "Brutus and Cassius, they too are honorable men." Who killed Caesar? Twenty, twenty-five Senators. All it takes is one Judas, Bill - a few people, on the inside, Pentagon, CIA.
BILL: Julius Caesar: "Brutus and Cassius, they too are honorable men." Who killed Caesar? Twenty, twenty-five Senators. All it takes is one Judas, Bill - a few people, on the inside, Pentagon, CIA.
JIM: Julius Caesar: "Brutus and Cassius, they too are honorable men." Who killed Caesar? Twenty, twenty-five Senators. All it takes is one Judas, Bill - a few people, on the inside, Pentagon, CIA.
BILL: ( he gets up ) This is Louisiana, chief. How the hell do you know who your daddy is? 'Cause your momma told you so. You're way out there taking a crap in the wind, boss, and I for one ain't going along on this one. ( he exits ) Jim sighs, saddened. Bill was one of his best men.
LOU: Chief, I've had my doubts about Bill for a long time. He's fighting We need him back.
JIM: We need him back.
AL: Bill wasted a goddamn month trying to prove that mob boys like Barding and Jack Ruby played ball in right field with Hunt Oil.
LOU: I don't trust the guy.
JIM: ( standing ) Gentlemen, I will not hear this. I value Bill as much as anyone here. ( Lou reacts angrily ) We all need to make room for someone else's ideas, Lou, especially me. Maybe Oswald is what everyone says he is and I'm just plain dumb wrong.
AL: I've seen him copying files, leaving here late at night.
LOU: I just plain don't trust him anymore.
JIM: ( angry ) Maybe you didn't hear what I said. I will not tolerate this infighting among the staff, I warn you that.
LOU: ( suddenly ) Boss, then I'm afraid I can't continue working with Bill.
JIM: ( pause, then quietly ) Are you giving me an ultimatum, Lou?
LOU: Well, if that's what you want to call it. I didn't ever think it would come to this. I guess I am, I will not have any damned ultimatums put to me, Lou. I'll accept your You sure got it. You're one stubborn and stupid sonofabitch D.A. and you're making one hell of a mistake!
JIM: I will not have any damned ultimatums put to me, Lou. I'll accept your You sure got it. You're one stubborn and stupid sonofabitch D.A. and you're making one hell of a mistake!
LOU: You sure got it. You're one stubborn and stupid sonofabitch D.A. and you're making one hell of a mistake!
SUSIE: Aren't you being a little hard?
JIM: No, I don't think I am, Susie. Anyone
MATTIE: My God! My God! What have they It's lynchin' time!
VIRGINIA: I'll get it. Hello. Is this Jim Garrison's Virginia or Elizabeth?
MALE VOICE: Hello. Is this Jim Garrison's Virginia or Elizabeth?
VIRGINIA: MALE VOICE
MALE VOICE: Virginia or Elizabeth?
VIRGINIA: MALE VOICE
MALE VOICE: Virginia, you're a lucky little girl. Your daddy has entered you in a beauty contest. Would you like to be in a beauty contest?
VIRGINIA: That sounds fun.
MALE VOICE: I need some information from you then. How old are you?
VIRGINIA: MALE VOICE NEWSMAN 9
MALE VOICE: And how tall are you? To repeat - 39-year-old Martin Luther King, who preached non-violence and won the Nobel Peace Prize, was cut down earlier today by a sniper's bullets while standing on the porch of the Lorraine Motel in Memphis, Tennessee. He was surrounded by his closest aides. The police say they have no suspects at this time. Mr.
NEWSMAN 9: To repeat - 39-year-old Martin Luther King, who preached non-violence and won the Nobel Peace Prize, was cut down earlier today by a sniper's bullets while standing on the porch of the Lorraine Motel in Memphis, Tennessee. He was surrounded by his closest aides. The police say they have no suspects at this time. Mr.
MALE VOICE: And you get of from school at 3 every Do you walk home?
VIRGINIA: MALE VOICE
MALE VOICE: Do you walk home?
VIRGINIA: Uh huh.
LIZ: ( taking the phone ) Who are you talking to?
MALE VOICE: Okay, Virginia, that's all I need to know. I'll call you again when it's time for the beauty contest.
LIZ: Who's this?. Hello?. Hello?
VIRGINIA: ( excited ) Mama, I'm going to be in a beauty What did he ask you?
LIZ: What did he ask you?
VIRGINIA: Well, he asked me everything. He asked me.
LIZ: Did you enter Virginia into a beauty A man just called. He asked her
JIM: ( absorbed in the TV ) ( hysterical ) A man just called. He asked her
LIZ: ( hysterical ) A man just called. He asked her
JIM: ( distracted ) Honey, some crackpot. Martin Luther King was killed in Memphis today!
LIZ: ( screaming ) Your daughter's life was just Just a crank making phone calls. Happens a dozen times a day at the Our home, Jim! A kidnapper, a murderer, who knows!
JIM: Just a crank making phone calls. Happens a dozen times a day at the Our home, Jim! A kidnapper, a murderer, who knows!
LIZ: Our home, Jim! A kidnapper, a murderer, who knows!
JIM: Only cowards make crank calls, sweetheart, nothing is going to How do you know? How do you even know what goes on in this house anymore! You're too busy making speeches, stirring up every crazed Klansman in Louisiana after us!
LIZ: How do you know? How do you even know what goes on in this house anymore! You're too busy making speeches, stirring up every crazed Klansman in Louisiana after us!
JIM: Get a hold of yourself.
LIZ: I'm leaving. I'm taking the kids and I'm leaving! I won't stand it
JIM: Honey, come on. The government wants you to be scared. They want everybody to be scared to speak out. They count on it. But there's nothing to be scared of.
LIZ: You and your government! What's the matter with you? Don't you have any feelings? Your daughter! What kind of man are you?
JIM: I'll take them up to my mother's if it'll make you feel better. Spend a week. I'll change the locks, the phone lines, I'll even get a bodyguard, all right? Elizabeth, get a hold of yourself.
LIZ: Jim, before this Kennedy thing, nothing mattered to you in this life more than your children. The other night Jasper tried to show you a drawing. You didn't even notice he was there. He came to me bawling his little eyes out. Jim, he's sensitive - he needs more from you.
JIM: I promise I'll make more time for Is it such a chore? I don't understand you.
LIZ: Is it such a chore? I don't understand you.
JIM: Damn it, if I say I'll spend more time with him, I'll spend more time with him. I can't fight you and the world too, Liz.
LIZ: I'm not fighting you, Jim, I'm just trying to reach you. You've changed.
JIM: Of course, I've changed! My eyes have opened, and once they're open, believe me, what used to look normal seems insane! And now King. Don't you think this has something to do with that? Can't you see?
LIZ: ( she explodes ) I don't want to see, goddammit! I'm tired. I've had enough! They say you don't have anything anyway! Everybody in town's talking. You're ruining this man Shaw's life! You're attacking him because he's homosexual! Going ahead with this stupid "trial"! Did you ever once stop and consider what he's going through?
JIM: ( astounded ) That's not why I'm attacking him! You don't believe me - all this time you never believed me.
LIZ: Oh, I don't know anymore! I believe there was a conspiracy, but not the government. I just want to raise our children and live a normal life! I want my life back!
JIM: Well so do I, goddammit! So do I! I had a life too, y'know - I had a life, too. But you just can't bury your head in the sand like some ostrich, goddammit, Elizabeth! It's not just about you - and your well- being and your two cars and your kitchen and your TV and "I'm jes fine honey." While our kids grow up into a shithole of lies! Well, I'm not "fine" about that, I'm angry. My life is fucked, Liz! And yours is, too! And if you don't want to support me I can understand that but don't you go start making threats of taking the children away.
LIZ: You never talked to me this way before, Jim Garrison. I'm not making any threats. I'm leaving you. I'm taking the kids to my mother's. I am - I am.
JIM: Go on then, get out! Go hide someplace. Join the rest of them! They'll tell you I'm crazy. You got plenty of people'll tell you Jim Garrison's crazy. You won't have a problem filing your divorce papers on me .somebody's got to try, goddammit, somebody!
JASPER: Are we going away, Daddy?
JIM: Well, it looks like it, Jasper.
JASPER: Because of Kennedy? Are the same people gonna kill us, No, Jasper, nobody's gonna kill us.
JIM: No, Jasper, nobody's gonna kill us.
VIRGINIA: Do you love us?
JIM: Yes, of course I do, honey.
VIRGINIA: No. I mean like mommy loves us. She really loves us.
JASPER: I'm scared.
JIM: ( bending down ) There's nothing wrong with feeling a little scared, Jasper, Virginia. Telling the truth can be a scary thing. It scared President Kennedy, but he was a brave man. If you let yourself be too scared, then you let the bad guys take over the country, don't you - and then everybody gets Stay with Mom, Daddy. please.
SIDEKICK: And now, Jerry, here's Big Jim Garrison, District Attorney of New Orleans, Louisiana.
JOHNSON: Welcome, District Attorney Garrison. May I call you Jim?
JIM: I've been called everything under the sun, Jerry. Call me whatever you like.
JOHNSON: First we had your charge that the Cuban exiles killed the President, then the Mob, then you said the oil billionaires did it, then you said the Minutemen and the Ku Klux Klan collaborated to do it, now your latest theory seems to be that the CIA and the FBI and the Pentagon and the White House all combined in some elaborate conspiracy to kill John Kennedy. Let me ask you, is there anyone besides Lee Harvey Oswald who you think did not conspire to kill the President?
JIM: How many hours do I have to answer that one? Well let's just say this, Jerry - I've stopped beating my wife. Or maybe you should ask Lyndon Johnson. We know he has some answers.
JOHNSON: There have been a number of reports in reputable news media - Time, Newsweek, our own NBC - that you have gone way beyond the legal means available to a prosecutor, that you've intimidated and drugged witnesses, bribed them, urged them to commit perjury. What is your response?
JIM: Your faith in the veracity of the major media is touching, Jerry. It indicates that the Age of Innocence is not yet over. But seriously, Jerry, people aren't interested in Jim Garrison - they want the hard evidence! They want to know why he was killed and what forces were opposed to.
JOHNSON: ( interrupting ) Some people would say you're paranoid.
JIM: Well, if I am, why is the Government concealing evidence?
JOHNSON: Are they? Why would they?
JIM: ( pulling out his briefcase ) That's exactly my question, Jerry. Maybe I'd better show you some pictures so you can begin to understand what I am talking about.
JIM: These arrests were photographed minutes after the assassination, and were never shown to the American public. They show. Pictures like this don't show up on Sure they do. The camera can pick this up.
JOHNSON: ( sharply ) Pictures like this don't show up on ( holding the picture up again ) Sure they do. The camera can pick this up.
JIM: ( holding the picture up again ) Sure they do. The camera can pick this up.
JOHNSON: ( yanking his arm down ) No, it can't!
JIM: ( quickly realizes he's about to be cut off ) Those men you just saw were arrested in Dallas minutes after the assassination. They were never seen again. No record of arrest, no fingerprint, no mugshot, nothing. They all got away.
JOHNSON: We'll be back after these messages.
AL: Jim, bad news. Bill's turned, boss. I think he's given everything we've got to the Feds.
NUMA: We studied the memos - there was nothing there, chief, nothing! When we went to confront him, the landlady said that sonofabitch just took off, left everything.
SUSIE: I'm sorry.
JIM: I know.
LIZ: ( to Jim ) I'm sorry.
NUMA: Something sure scared him.
JIM: Bill doesn't scare that easy. Somebody got to his thinking. He was never that good a thinker.
NEWSMAN 9: Much is at stake tonight in California. Public opinion polls show Senator Robert Kennedy of New York leading Senator Eugene McCarthy of Minnesota. Their anti-Vietnam War message is obviously striking a chord with the voters, and whoever wins tonight will certainly emerge as the favorite over Vice-President Humphrey to win the nomination in Chicago in August. That man now seems to be Senator Kennedy. Sure sounds like he's winning.
NUMA: Sure sounds like he's winning.
JIM: He'll never make it. If he wins, they'll kill him. He wants to avenge his brother. He'll stop that war. No, they'll kill him before they let him become President.
AL: Boss, with Broussard they have everything. All our witnesses, our strategy for the trial. We'd have to doublecheck all his work, there could be false leads. we gotta rethink this trial.
JIM: I don't think so, Al. You remember the Hemingway story, "The Old Man and the Sea"? The old fisherman manages to catch this great fish - a fish so huge he has to tie it to the side of the boat to get it back in. But by the time he reached shore, the fish had long since been picked apart by sharks and nothing was left but the skeleton.
NUMA: Then what are we going through all this trouble for?
JIM: It's a means to an end. This war has two fronts - in the court of law, we hope, against the odds, to nail Clay Shaw on a conspiracy charge. In the court of public opinion, it could take another 25 or 30 years for the truth to come out, but at least we're going to strike the first And if you're wrong?
LIZ: And if you're wrong?
JIM: ( rising ) I never doubted for a second that I ( softly ) Will you come to the trial, Elizabeth?
LIZ: I don't think so, Jim.
NEWSMAN 1: With 53% of the precincts reporting, Senator Kennedy continues to hold a lead of 48% to 41% over Senator McCarthy. CBS News has projected Senator Robert Kennedy the winner of the crucial California primary.
ROBERT KENNEDY: ( voice over on TV ) .and that is what has been going on within the United States over the last three years - the division, the violence, the disenchantment, whether it's between blacks and whites, between poor and the more affluent, or between age groups or the war in Vietnam - we can start to work together. We are a great country, an unselfish country and a compassionate country. I intend to make that my basis for running.
NEWSMAN 1: ( shaken )
JIM: They killed him, honey.
LIZ: ( groggily ) ( strangled ) He won. and they killed Robert Kennedy. They shot him down.
JIM: ( strangled ) He won. and they killed Robert Kennedy. They shot him down.
LIZ: ( realizing, with terror ) Oh no! No! I can't believe it. I can't believe it. Both of them, both brothers, oh my God!
LIZ: You're right, it hasn't ended, has
JIM: ( awkward ) I wish I could've loved you more. I feel sometimes like I didn't ever.. love you or the children enough. I'm sorry.
O'KEEFE: That's Clay Bertrand. That's the man I saw at David Ferrie's.
DYMOND: ( words wafting ) That's who you say you saw. a confessed homosexual, convicted of solicitation, pandering. a man who has lied about most everything, who. It was that man there, yessir. He was at the Pontchartrain wall with the man who shot the President. I remember him cause o' his limp there.
BUNDY: It was that man there, yessir. He was at the Pontchartrain wall with the man who shot the President. I remember him cause o' his limp there.
DYMOND: A heroin addict, injecting himself at the wall, barely conscious.
COLLINS: ( pointing at Shaw ) .that was the man there. He dropped Oswald off on the voter line. I remember 'cause they were the only white strangers around that morning. That big, black Cadillac of his made me think they might be FBI.
TOWN MARSHALL: ( looking at Shaw ) .said he was a representative of one International Trade Mart in New .more than five years ago, for two minutes. It's fair to say you could be mistaken, isn't it? .figment of my imagination. The cat's stewing me, the oyster's shucking me I told him, you got the right at-at but the wrong oh-oh. Bertrand is not Shaw, scout's honor and you can tell him I said so.
DYMOND: .more than five years ago, for two minutes. It's fair to say you could be mistaken, isn't it? .figment of my imagination. The cat's stewing me, the oyster's shucking me I told him, you got the right at-at but the wrong oh-oh. Bertrand is not Shaw, scout's honor and you can tell him I said so.
ANDREWS: .figment of my imagination. The cat's stewing me, the oyster's shucking me I told him, you got the right at-at but the wrong oh-oh. Bertrand is not Shaw, scout's honor and you can tell him I said so.
SUSIE: ( counter-arguing ) Objection, your Honor. This office has won a conviction of perjury against Dean Andrews on this matter.
DYMOND: Exception taken. That case is on
DYMOND: ( relishing this ) Mr. Goldberg, you claim you met David Ferrie and Clay Shaw while on a vacation here from your accounting business in New York, you had drinks and, under the influence discussed killing Kennedy, is that not so?
GOLDBERG: I did.
DYMOND: Well, I wanted to make sure she's the same girl I sent.
GOLDBERG: Well, I wanted to make sure she's the same girl I sent.
DYMOND: I see. and why are you experiencing this paranoia?
GOLDBERG: ( launching into his explanation ) Well, you see, I've been subject to hypnosis and psychological warfare ever since 1948, when I was in
AL: He was one of Broussard's witnesses, chief. I'm sorry. He was totally sane when we took his affidavit.
SUSIE: But how does Dymond know what to ask? FUCK! We're dead.
GOLDBERG: When someone tries to get your attention - catch your eye - that's a clue right off.
GARRISON: Your Honor, I call police officer Aloysisus Habighorst to the stand.
JUDGE HAGGERTY: I'm going to have to ask the jury to leave the courtroom.
GARRISON: This is an ugly surprise for Jim. We see him at the bench arguing loudly with the judge. Susie, Dymond and Al are also there.
JUDGE HAGGERTY: I'm sorry, Jim, but the defendant did not have his lawyer present when
HABIGHORST: Any alias?
SHAW: Clay Bertrand.
JUDGE HAGGERTY: I call'em as I see'em, Jim. I'm ruling it inadmissible.
GARRISON: That's our case!
JUDGE HAGGERTY: If that's your case, you didn't have a case. I wouldn't believe whatever Habighorst said, anyway.
GARRISON: I can't believe you're saying this in the courtroom.
JUDGE HAGGERTY: ( feistier ) Well, I am saying it. Bring in the We're filing for a writ to the appellate court.
AL: We're filing for a writ to the appellate court.
JUDGE HAGGERTY: You do that.
DYMOND: No, I did not.
SHAW: No, I did not.
DYMOND: .ever called Dean Andrews?
SHAW: No, I did not.
DYMOND: .and have you ever met David Ferrie?
SHAW: ( with a smirk of amusement ) No, I would not even know what he looked like except for the pictures I've been shown.
DYMOND: .did you ever use the alias Clay No, I did not.
SHAW: No, I did not.
DYMOND: Thank you. Mr. Shaw.
JIM: Well, a very great actor has just given us a great performance, Your Honor, but we are nowhere closer to the truth. Let it be noted, my office is charging Clay Shaw with outright perjury on the fifteen answers he has given, not one word of this.
JUDGE HAGGERTY: You're out of order, Jim Boy, now sit down. Strike those remarks!!
JIM: To prove their was a conspiracy involving Clay Shaw we must prove there was more than one man involved in the assassination. To do that, we must look at the Zapruder film, which my office has subpoenaed. The American public has not seen that film because it has been kept locked in a vault in the Time-Life Building in New York City for the last five years. There is a reason for that.
JIM: A picture speaks a thousand words. Yet sometimes the truth is too simple for some. The Warren Commission thought they had an open and shut case: three bullets, one assassin - but two things happened that made it virtually impossible: 1 )the Zapruder film which you just saw, and 2 )the third wounded man, Jim Tague, who was nicked by a fragment down by the Triple Underpass. The time frame of 5.6 seconds established by the Zapruder film left no possibility of a fourth shot from Oswald's rifle, but the shot or fragment that left a superficial wound on Tague's cheek had to come from a bullet that missed the car entirely. Now they had two bullets that hit, and we know one of them was the fatal head shot. So a single bullet remained to account for all seven wounds in Kennedy and Connally. But rather than admit to a conspiracy or investigate further, the Commission chose to endorse the theory put forth by an ambitious junior counsellor, Arlen Specter. One of the grossest lies ever forced on the American people, we've come to know it as the "magic bullet"
JIM: The magic bullet enters the President's back, headed downward at an angle of 17 degrees. It then moves upward in order to leave Kennedy's body from the front of his neck - his neck wound number two - where it waits 1.6 seconds, turns right and continues into Connally's body at the rear of his right armpit - wound number three. Then, the bullet heads downward at an angle of 27 degrees, shattering Connally's fifth rib and leaving from the right side of his chest - wounds four and five. The bullet continues downward and then enters Connally's right wrist - wound number six - shattering the radius bone. It then enters his left thigh - wound number seven - from which it later falls out and is found in almost "pristine" condition on a stretcher in a corridor of Parkland Hospital. That's some bullet. Anyone who's been in combat can tell you never in the history of gunfire has there been a bullet like this. The Army Wound Ballistics experts at Edgewood Arsenal fired some comparison bullets and not one of them looked anything like this one. Take a look at CE 856, an identical bullet fired through the wrist of a human cadaver - just one of the bones smashed by the magic bullet. Yet the government says it can prove this with some fancy physics in a nuclear laboratory. Of course they can. Theoretical physics can prove an elephant can hang from a cliff with it's tail tied to a daisy, but use your eyes - your common sense - Seven wounds, skin, bone. This single bullet explanation is the foundation of the Warren Commission's claim of a lone assassin. And once you conclude the magic bullet could not create all seven of those wounds, you have to conclude there was a fourth shot and a second rifleman. And if there was a second rifleman, there had to be a conspiracy, which we believe involved the accused Clay Shaw. Fifty-one witnesses, gentlemen of the jury, thought they heard shots coming from the Grassy Knoll, which is to the right and front of the
JIM: Key witnesses that day - Charles Brehm, a combat vet, right behind Jean Hill and Mary Moorman, S.M. Holland and Richard Dodd on the overpass, J.C. Price overlooking the whole Plaza, Randolph Carr, a steelworker, who served in the Rangers in North Africa, William Newman, father of two children who hit the deck on the north side of Elm, Abraham Zapruder, James Simmons - each of these witnesses has no doubt whatsoever one or more shots came from behind the picket fence! Twenty six trained medical personnel at Parkland Hospital saw with their own eyes the back of the President's head blasted out.
PETERS: ( describing the wound ) .a large 7 cm opening in the right occipitoparietal area, a considerable portion of the brain was missing ( he gestures to his head )
MCCLELLAND: .almost a fifth or perhaps a quarter of the back of the head - this area .had been blasted out along with the brain tissue there. The exit hole in the rear of his head was about 120 mm. across. There was also a large piece of skull attached to a flap of skin in the right temporal area.
MEDICAL EXAMINER: Texas Law, sir, requires the autopsy be done here. You're not taking him with you!
KENNY O'DONNELL: Sonofabitch, you're not telling me what to do! Get the hell outta the
JUDGE: JIM ( V.O. )
JUDGE: Sustained. Mr. Garrison, would you please bottle the acid.
JIM: The three Bethesda Naval Hospital doctors picked by the Military left something to be desired inasmuch as none of them had experience with combat gunfire wounds. Through their autopsy we have been able to justify eight wounds - three to Kennedy, five to Connally - from just two bullets, one of these bullets the "magic bullet".
JIM: Colonel Finck, are you saying someone told you not to dissect the neck?
FINCK: I was told that the family wanted examination of the head.
JIM: As a pathologist it was your obligation to explore all possible causes of death, was it not?
FINCK: I had the cause of death.
JIM: Your Honor, I would ask you to direct the witness to answer my question. Why did Colonel Finck not dissect the track of the bullet wound in the Well I heard Dr. Humes stating that - he said.
FINCK: Well I heard Dr. Humes stating that - he said.
HUMES: Who's in charge here?
ARMY GENERAL: I am.
KENNEY: ( in Bethesda scene ) Gentlemen, what you've seen in this room is intensely private to the Kennedy family and it is not our business to.
JIM: In addition to which, 1 ) the chief pathologist, Commander Humes, by his own admission voluntarily burned his autopsy notes, 2 )never released the autopsy photos to the public, 3 ) President Johnson ordered the blood soaked limousine filled with bullet holes and clues to be immediately washed and rebuilt, 4 ) sent John Connally's bloody suit right to the cleaners, and 5 ) when my office finally got a court order to examine President Kennedy's brain in the National Archives in the hopes of finding from what direction the bullets came, we were told by the government the President's brain had
JIM: So what really happened that day? Let's just for a moment speculate, shall we? We have the epileptic seizure around 12:15 P.M.. distracting the police, making it easier for the shooters to move into their places. The epileptic later vanished, never checking into the hospital. The A Team gets on the 6th floor of the Book Depository.
ARNOLD: ( under ) .probably a security agent.
POWELL: ( under ) .quite a few of us saw them. Everybody was hollering and yelling and that. We thought is was security .they don't shoot him coming up Houston, which is the easiest shot for a single shooter in the Book Depository, but they wait till he gets to the killing zone between three rifles. Kennedy makes the final turn from Houston onto Elm, slowing down to some 11 miles per
JIM: Frame 232, the third shot - the President has been hit in the back, drawing him downward and forward. Connally, you will notice, shows no signs at all of being hit. He is visibly holding his Stetson which is impossible if his wrist has been
JIM: ( pausing for effect ) What else was going on in Dealey Plaza that day? At least 12 other individuals were taken into custody by Dallas police. No records of their arrests. Men acting like hoboes were being pulled off trains, marched through Dealey Plaza, photographed, and yet there is no records of their
JIM: ( VO ) At the same time, Bonnie Ray Williams is supposedly eating his chicken lunch on the sixth floor, at least until 12:15, maybe 12:20 . he sees
BAKER: Hey you! Do you know this man? Is he an Yes he is. The President's been shot!
TRULY: Yes he is. The President's been shot!
JIM: The story gets pretty confusing now - more twists in it than a watersnake. Richard Carr says he saw four men take off from the Book Depository in a Rambler that possibly belongs to Janet Williams. Deputy Roger Craig says two men picked up Oswald in the same Rambler a few minutes later. Other people say Oswald took a bus out of there, and then because he was stuck in traffic, he hopped a cab to his rooming house in Oak
ROBERTS: ( watching TV ) My God, did you see that, Mr. Lee? A man shot the President.
OSWALD: This is it!
POLICEMAN: Kill the President, will you?
CROWD: Kill him! Kill him!
FRITZ: Thank you, Mr. President. We're doing our best.
FRITZ: Yes, sir.
OSWALD: Now everyone will know who I am.
JIM: The Official Legend is created and the media takes it from there. The glitter of official lies and the epic splendor of the thought-numbing funeral of J.F.K. confuse the eye and confound the understanding. Hitler always said "the bigger the lie, the more people will believe it." Lee Oswald - a crazed, lonely man who wanted attention and got it by killing a President, was only the first in a long line of patsies. In later years Bobby Kennedy and Martin Luther King, men whose commitment to change and to peace would make them dangerous to men who are committed to war, would follow, also killed by such "lonely, crazed men," who remove our guilt by making murder a meaningless act of a loner. We have all become Hamlets in our country - children of a slain father - leader whose killers still possess the throne. The ghost of John F. Kennedy confronts us with the secret murder at the heart of the American dream. He forces on us the appalling questions: Of what is our Constitution made? What is our citizenship, and more, our lives worth? What is the future of a democracy where a President can be assassinated under conspicuously suspicious circumstances while the machinery of legal action scarcely trembles? How many political murders, disguised as heart attacks, cancer, suicides, airplane and car crashes, drug overdoses will occur before they are exposed for what they are? "Treason doth never prosper," wrote an English poet, "What's the reason? For if it prosper, none dare call it treason." The generals who sent Dreyfus to Devils Island were among the most honorable men in France, the men who killed Caesar were among the most honorable men in Rome. And the men who killed Kennedy, no doubt, were honorable men. I believe we have reached a time in our country, similar to what life must've been like under Hitler in the 30's, except we don't realize it because Fascism in our country takes the benign disguise of liberal democracy. There won't be such familiar signs as swastikas. We won't build Dachaus and Auschwitzes. We're not going to wake up one morning and suddenly find ourselves in gray uniforms goose - stepping off to work . "Fascism will come," Huey Long once said. "in the name of anti-fascism" - it will come in the name of your security - they call it "National Security," it will come with the mass media manipulating a clever concentration camp of the mind. The super state will provide you tranquility above the truth, the super state will make you believe you are living in the best of all possible worlds, and in order to do so will rewrite history as it sees fit. George Orwell's Ministry of Truth warned us, "Who controls the past, controls the
JIM: "Treason doth never prosper," wrote an English poet, "What's the reason? For if it prosper, none dare call it treason." The generals who sent Dreyfus to Devils Island were among the most honorable men in France, the men who killed Caesar were among the most honorable men in Rome. And the men who killed Kennedy, no doubt, were honorable men. I believe we have reached a time in our country, similar to what life must've been like under Hitler in the 30's, except we don't realize it because Fascism in our country takes the benign disguise of liberal democracy. There won't be such familiar signs as swastikas. We won't build Dachaus and Auschwitzes. We're not going to wake up one morning and suddenly find ourselves in gray uniforms goose - stepping off to work . "Fascism will come," Huey Long once said. "in the name of anti-fascism" - it will come in the name of your security - they call it "National Security," it will come with the mass media manipulating a clever concentration camp of the mind. The super state will provide you tranquility above the truth, the super state will make you believe you are living in the best of all possible worlds, and in order to do so will rewrite history as it sees fit. George Orwell's Ministry of Truth warned us, "Who controls the past, controls the
JIM: The American people have yet to see the Zapruder film. Why? The American people have yet to see the real photographs and X - rays of the autopsy. Why? There are hundreds of documents that could help prove this conspiracy. Why have they been withheld or burned by the Government? Each time my office or you the people have asked those questions, demanded crucial evidence, the answer from on high has been "national security." What kind of "national security" do we have when we have been robbed of our leaders? Who determines our "national security"? What "national security" permits the removal of fundamental power from the hands of the American people and validates the ascendancy of invisible government in the United States? That kind of "national security," gentlemen of the jury, is when it smells like it, feels like it, and looks like it, you call it what it is - it's Fascism! I submit to you that what took place on November 22, 1963 was a coup d'etat. Its most direct and tragic result was a reversal of President Kennedy's commitment to withdraw from Vietnam. War is the biggest business in America worth $80 billion a year. The President was murdered by a conspiracy planned in advance at the highest levels of the United States government and carried out by fanatical and disciplined Cold Warriors in the Pentagon and CIA's covert operations apparatus - among them Clay Shaw here before you. It was a public execution and it was covered up by like - minded individuals in the Dallas Police Department, the Secret Service, the FBI, and the White House - all the way up to and including J. Edgar Hoover and Lyndon Johnson, whom I consider accomplices after the fact.
JIM: An American naturalist wrote, "a patriot must always be ready to defend his country against its government." Well, I'd hate to be in your shoes today. You have a lot to think about. Going back to when we were children, I think most of us in this courtroom thought that justice came into being automatically, that virtue was its own reward, that good would triumph over evil. But as we get older we know that this just isn't true. "The frontier is where a man faces a fact." Individual human beings have to create justice and this is not easy because truth often presents a threat to power and we have to fight power often at great risk to ourselves. People like Julia Ann Mercer, S.M. Holland, Lee Bowers, Jean Hill, and Willie O'Keefe have come forward and taken that risk. I have here some $8000 in these letters sent to my office from all over the country - quarters, dimes, dollar bills from housewives, plumbers, car salesmen, teachers, invalids . These are the people who cannot afford to send money but do, these are the ones who drive the cabs, who nurse in the hospitals, who see their kids go to Vietnam. Why? Because they care, because they want to know the truth - because they want their country back, because it belongs to us the people as long as the people got the guts to fight for what they believe in! The truth is the most important value we have because if the truth does not endure, if the Government murders truth, if you cannot respect the hearts of these people. .then this is no longer the country in which we were born in and this is not the country I want to die in. And this was never more true than for John F. Kennedy whose murder was probably the most terrible moment in the history of our country. You the people, you the jury system, in sitting in judgement on Clay Shaw, represent the hope of humanity against Government power. In discharging your duty, in bringing the first conviction in this house of cards against Clay Shaw, "Ask not what your country can do for you, but what you can do for your country." Do not forget your young President who forfeited his life. Show the world this is still a government of the people, for the people, and by the people. Nothing as long as you live will ever be more important. It's up to you.
JURY FOREMAN: We find Clay Shaw. not guilty on all counts.
FOREMAN: We believe there was a conspiracy, but whether Clay Shaw was a part of it is another kettle of fish.
ENGLISH REPORTER: Mr. Garrison, the American media is reporting this as a full vindication of the Warren Commission, do you.
JIM: I think all it proves is you cannot run a trial even questioning the intelligence operations of the government in the light of day.
NEWSMAN 13: We understand that The Times - Picayune will call for your resignation - unfit to hold office. You've ruined Clay Shaw's reputation - are you going to resign?
JIM: Hell, no. I'm gonna run again. And I'm gonna win. Thank you very much. If it takes me 30 years to nail every one of the assassins, then I will continue this investigation for 30 years. I owe that not only to Jack Kennedy, but to my country.
JIM: Well, thanks for coming.
X: You didn't get that break you needed, but you went as far as any man could, What can I do for you?
JIM: Just speculating, I guess. How do you think it started?
X: I think it started in the wind. Money - arms, big oil, Pentagon people, contractors, bankers, politicians like L.B.J. were committed to a war in Southeast Asia. As early as '61 they knew Kennedy was going to change things. He was not going to war in Southeast Asia. Who knows? Probably some boardroom or lunchroom somewhere - Houston, New York - hell, maybe Bonn, Germany. who knows, it's international now.
Y: ( into phone ) In the fall. Probably in the south. We want you to come up with a plan.
X: He's done it before. Other countries. Lumumba in the Congo, Trujillo, the Dominican Republic, he's working on Castro. No big deal. In September, Kennedy announces the Texas trip. At that moment, second Oswalds start popping up all over Dallas where they have the mayor and the cops in their pocket. Y flies in the assassins, maybe from the special camp we keep outside Athens, Greece - pros, maybe some locals, Cubans, Maria hire, separate teams. Does it really matter who shot from what rooftop? Part of the scenery. The assassins by now are dead or well paid and long gone.
JIM: Any chance of one of them confessing .don't think so. When they start to drool, they get rid of 'em. These guys are proud of what they did. They did Dealey Plaza! They took out the President of the United States! That's entertainment! And they served their country doing it.
X: .don't think so. When they start to drool, they get rid of 'em. These guys are proud of what they did. They did Dealey Plaza! They took out the President of the United States! That's entertainment! And they served their country doing it.
JIM: ( in present ) .and your General?
X: .got promoted to two stars, but he was never military, you know, always CIA. Went to Vietnam, lost his credibility when we got beat over there, retired, lives in Virginia. I say hello to him when I see him at the supermarket.
JIM: Ever ask him?
X: You never ask a spook a question. No point. He'll never give you a straight answer. General Y still thinks of himself of the handsome young warrior who loved this country but loved the concept of war more.
JIM: His name?
X: Does it matter? Another technician. But an interesting thing - he was there that day in Dealey Plaza. You know how I know? That picture of yours. The hoboes. you never looked deep enough.
JIM: .some story. the whole thing. It's like it never happened.
X: It never did.
JIM: Just think. just think. What happened to our country .. to the world. because of that murder. Vietnam, racial conflict, breakdown of law, drugs, thought control, guilt, assassinations, secret government fear of the frontier.
X: I keep thinking of that day, Tuesday the 26th, the day after they buried Kennedy, L.B.J. was signing the memorandum on Vietnam with Ambassador
JOHNSON: Gentlemen, I want you to know I'm not going to let Vietnam go the way China did. I'm personally committed. I'm not going to take one soldier out of there 'til they know we mean business in Asia. You just get me elected, and I'll give you your damned war.
