JIMMY: Do you like that nigger? Come on nigger, do you like it?
PROSTITUTE: ( humors him ) Oh yeah baby, I like it.
PROSTITUTE: This costs you an extra fifty.
PROSTITUTE: It felt like nothing.
PROSTITUTE: You ain't the first person to call me a nigger when we was fucking.
PROSTITUTE: Johns call me nigger all the time. Especially white guys. Nothing new. Just dirty talk.
PROSTITUTE: That it?
PROSTITUTE: What about you? You like calling me nigger? You get your nut off?
PROSTITUTE: Then why'd ya call me that?
PROSTITUTE: Yeah, so?
PROSTITUTE: Why ya wanna die?
PROSTITUTE: ( trying not to care ) Yep. Everyone. Everyone that knows or who has ever met me.
PROSTITUTE: Your parents don't hate you. Look at this room in this big 'ole house you got.
PROSTITUTE: You wanna know what I think?
JIMMY: Yes, I really do.
PROSTITUTE: I think you're a spoiled ass white boy, thinks you everything, but you don't know shit. All you do is bullshit complain and there's folks out there that'd kill for all this.
PROSTITUTE: I don't feel sorry for you.
JUDY'S DAD: I strictly buy American anyway.
JUDY: As Judy leaves the table she walks towards camera as it shuts INT. JIMMY'S HOUSE - JIMMY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT Judy sits on Jimmy's bed, staring into the camera. She's uncomfortable sitting there. It's poorly framed.
JUDY: Can we start already?
JUDY: ( kind of bitchy ) Why? Who cares?
JUDY: God, I just wanted to come up here to say "hi" and get away from my parents' bullshit for like two seconds and you have to put the stupid camera in my face.
JUDY: You're weird Jimmy. You were weird when we were kids and now you're just getting weirder.
JUDY: ( scoffs ) Yeah right.
JUDY: You're a loser. You're twenty one and you're still living with your
JUDY: I heard that you got kicked out of college because you tried to talk your roommate into killing himself.
JUDY: From everyone.
JUDY: JIMMY ( O.C. )
JUDY: I swear to God, you're a fucking Like you're normal.
JUDY: More than you.
JUDY: I was bored.
JUDY: I can't believe I'm doing this.
JUDY: ( offended; turns to Can you start the tape?
JUDY: Don't think this means I like you or anything.
JUDY: And as soon as this is over I'm going back downstairs.
DAY: Someone ( Jimmy ) has placed the camera on the ground and is facing a car in a parking lot at school.
JUDY: Why did you do that?
JUDY: JIMMY ( O.C. )
JUDY: I don't understand.
JUDY: Please tell me.
JUDY: ( screams ) Please turn off the FUCKING CAMERA!
LIVING ROOM: The place is full of More Party Guests. Frame moves across a huge mirror on the wall over a cocktail bar. We catch a glimpse of Jimmy's image and realize.
JIMMY'S DAD: That's enough.
DR. WALTERS: Jimmy, we discussed this. You can't tape our sessions. It's not
DR. WALTERS: You know, you can't film someone who doesn't want their image and voice recorded. Technically, you're actually breaking the law.
DR. WALTERS: Does your defiance make you feel more powerful?
DR. WALTERS: Filming people makes you feel like you're in control of the situation doesn't it?
DR. WALTERS: I can sit here as long as you can. You're not going to be able to force me to participate in your little game here.
DR. WALTERS: Jimmy, this isn't something that friends do to each other is it?
DR. WALTERS: Jimmy, put the camera away, please.
DR. WALTERS: You're wasting your time and mine, Jimmy. We could be doing something
DR. WALTERS: That's enough.
DR. WALTERS: Put it away.
DR. WALTERS: Now Jimmy!
DR. WALTERS: Come on Jimmy.
DR. WALTERS: Gimme the Goddamn fucking camera!
JIMMY'S BEDROOM: Judy is sitting on his bed. She sees Jimmy come in with the camera and freaks out.
JUDY: No. No filming. I'm leaving, I
JIMMY: Okay, okay. Wait.
JUDY: I don't know how I said it.
JUDY: Do what?
JUDY: You mean paraphrase it.
JUDY: I didn't hear you.
JUDY: I'm waiting for you.
JUDY: Tell me when.
JUDY: You want me to paraphrase it?
JUDY: I can't remember what I said.
JUDY: JIMMY ( O.C. )
JUDY: I don't know what that means.
JUDY: ( confused ) Do you want me to make something up or paraphrase what I did the first
JUDY: I'm not good on camera. It makes me nervous.
JIMMY: Forget about the camera. Talk to Tell me what you said earlier. About me about how you felt when you saw the video.
JUDY: Tell me what you said earlier. About me about how you felt when you saw the video.
JIMMY: Tell me what you said earlier. About me about how you felt when you saw the video.
JUDY: ( relaxes ) It felt like someone had been reading my mind.
JIMMY: Go on.
JUDY: It was like someone had jumped into my head and watched what was being
JIMMY: And earlier, what you said about
JIMMY: ( off her look ) Tell me.
JUDY: I said that it felt like God had sent someone to protect me, and to look out for me.
JUDY: And I said that you are the only person in my life who has ever looked after me like that.
JUDY: God, I hate it when you film me
JIMMY: I don't like it or dislike. I'm used to it.
JIMMY: Generally I'd place the camera further away from my nose, but if this is your preferred shooting style then I guess I'll have to adjust to it.
JIMMY: How's this work for you?
JIMMY: Now Judy's the interviewer. Her framing is not quite as adept as Jimmy's.
JIMMY: I don't film everything.
JIMMY: I don't.
JIMMY: Because it's rare that I get to find someone that lets their emotions go. When a person is crying, I mean truly crying, or truly laughing or smiling or frowning or gasping. For a few seconds or minutes I get a chance to see that person's soul. And really, now that you've forced me to think about it. I think it's a very rare and beautiful thing to be afforded that opportunity.
JIMMY: Anything else?
JIMMY: Jimmy sits still. Judy doesn't know what to do with that.
JIMMY: Why do you think?
JUDY: JIMMY ( O.C. ) ( soft )
JUDY: ( blows her top ) Because we're both fucking weird!
JUDY: Because we're the two weirdest kids in the world. And God made us for each other and I fucking love you, and you did all this because you love me too, and fuck everyone and everything that doesn't get it!
JUDY: That's right, right?
JIMMY: To a beautiful place.
JIMMY: Chuck E. Cheese.
JIMMY: I can't tell you. It'll ruin it.
JIMMY: JUDY ( O.C. )
JIMMY: Yes, but I understand them.
JIMMY: Lots of things.
JIMMY: I understand that my ascension into young adulthood triggered their descent into mid-life crisis. Generally when an only child leaves the nest, the parents begin reassessing their own lives. They see us as a younger, better version of themselves.
JIMMY: When you don't have any friends, don't play sports, don't go out, have no one talk to, nowhere to go, no one to listen to you, or no one to help you figure things out, you sort of have to figure things out by yourself. And without any of those things I have nothing but time to think about stuff.
JIMMY: You are so beautiful.
JIMMY: I think you're the most beautiful person I have ever met. The most beautiful person in the universe.
JIMMY: Get used to hearing it.
JIMMY: JUDY ( O.C. )
JIMMY: JUDY ( O.C. )
JIMMY: Oh, I'm sorry. I thought you said flat. As in flat chested.
JIMMY: Prove it.
JIMMY: I still can't tell.
JIMMY: Show me. Take em out.
JIMMY: It's already out.
JUDY: I'm embarrassed.
JUDY: ( struggling ) I just realized something.
JUDY: I just showed you my breasts and I saw your penis and we haven't even
JUDY: You haven't even asked me to be your girlfriend and I did that. I'm a slut. I don't want to be a slut.
JUDY: JIMMY ( O.C. )
JUDY: ( sniffling ) Yes. Will you turn off the camera?
JUDY: ( whispers ) I wanna see your smiley face again.
JUDY: ( whispering ) Turn the camera off. Turn the camera off. Turn it off.
JIMMY: Relaxed, happy, confident, studly, excited, relieved, delighted. I love you Judy.
JIMMY: Very much so. I always have.
JIMMY: Are you getting this?
JIMMY: Come on. Are you getting this?
JIMMY: Yeah, what's the matter?
JIMMY: Don't fuck this up. Please don't fuck this up.
JIMMY: Just try to be normal. Just be normal! God damn it why do you have to fuck everything up?
JIMMY: Be normal. Be normal. Be normal!
JUDY: ( big smile ) So how do you feel now, right at this moment?
JUDY: I don't know. That was soooo good.
JUDY: I don't know. I've just really been wanting you lately. Really Why's that?
JUDY: I'm embarrassed. I can't say.
JUDY: It was after yesterday.
JUDY: Yeah, it was after I saw you shoot that gun.
JUDY: I was scared at first. Really scared. I didn't expect it to be so loud and you looked so mean. But then I got home and started thinking about it. About how your muscles looked and how dangerous it all seemed. It made me like. all excited, and like.
JIMMY: One sec!
JIMMY: My dad keeps it in his closet. It's heavy.
JIMMY: Now I see the appeal. Give me the
JUDY: What do you think of this?
JUDY: Do you like that?
JIMMY'S DAD: Hi sweety.
JIMMY'S MOM: Are you ready for me, you fucking Not quite.
JIMMY'S DAD: Not quite.
JIMMY'S MOM: I don't feel like waiting. Hurry up bitch. What do you have left to I just need to put on my makeup.
JIMMY'S DAD: I just need to put on my makeup.
JIMMY'S MOM: Come on slut.
JIMMY: Hi mom. Hi dad. What are you guys up to?
JIMMY'S DAD: What the fuck are you doing here?
JIMMY'S MOM: ( to his dad ) I told you he would find out you fucking freak! No wonder he's a fucking psycho. Look a his father.
JIMMY'S DAD: Turn off the that fucking camera! Turn off that fucking camera right fucking now god damn it!
JIMMY: Gee dad, what do you say the two of us go out to the front yard and throw some ball together? We'll have a nice friendly game of catch.
JIMMY'S DAD: You little mother fucker. Turn off that fucking camera!
JIMMY'S MOM: Stop it! You're going to kill him.
JIMMY'S DAD: Jimmy's Mom keeps swinging the dildo at Jimmy's Dad even though he's let go.
JIMMY'S MOM: Fuck you! You think you know me? You don't know me! You piece of You little beast! You want to film something? Film this!
JIMMY: ( laughing ) You little beast! You want to film something? Film this!
JIMMY'S MOM: You little beast! You want to film something? Film this!
JUDY: I'm so glad you're out. Next time your dad wants to take it in the ass, DON'T FILM HIM!
JUDY: I thought I was going to die without you. What if you and I could live here together? Forever.
JUDY: I'm serious. Maybe not here, but eventually we'll buy some land, and we can live together on it, and be naked whenever we want.
JUDY: Excuse me. What do you think?
JUDY: I think you're right mister.
JUDY: I don't want this to ever end. I want to be here forever. I want to dance and be naked and be free, and I want us to ball our brains out everyday, and I want to feel the air on my body and I want to get drunk and not care about anything in the world. I just want us to be together in this moment.
JUDY: You do?
JUDY: We can? Where is it?
JUDY: ( doesn't buy it ) Yeah Erlanger. Everybody was talking about it in the nut house. That's ALL anybody fucking talked about was this dude who lives up there named Uncle Rodney. He supposedly has a commune where we can do this kind of thing every Uncle Rodney's commune?
JUDY: Uncle Rodney's commune?
JUDY: That's funny.
JIMMY: JUDY ( O.C. )
JIMMY: I'm thinking.
JIMMY: ( adoringly ) You're such a hippie all of sudden.
JIMMY: Judy's not getting what she wants from him. Camera shuts EXT. FOREST/MEADOW - RUNNING NAKED - DAY Judy films Jimmy. The camera is close and intimate as they lie on their sides staring into each other's eyes. Judy is still naked, but is being shot in an extreme close up.
JIMMY: Okay, you really wanna hear
JIMMY: I want to go one day without masturbating. I want to liberate my penis. I want to clone you so we could have a three way and neither of us would be cheating. I want you to scrape my balls with a cheese grater.
JIMMY: And I love you. I love you so much it hurts.
JIMMY: Like God is stabbing me in heart with a thousand knives at the same time and you're the only one who can make the pain go away. Do you love me that much?
JIMMY: Jimmy grabs the camera and points it at Judy.
JUDY: You mean get married?
JUDY: JIMMY ( O.C. ) ( grabs the camera )
JIMMY: It's transcendental because it transcends everything. Life, love, law, people, things. A bond so strong that our souls will become one and it can never end, even in death. If you swear on the bond, it means you'd rather die than break your promise.
JIMMY: You're so beautiful. I want to love you forever.
JIMMY: I swear on the bond.
JIMMY: Not even death. I swear. Nothing will come between us, ever.
JUDY: We'll be together forever.
JIMMY: ( whispers ) Together forever.
JIMMY: This is action ten news reporter Jimmy Van Muffmuncher reporting to you live from the parking lot of Dick's grocery store where we're going to witness the beautiful, the talented, the amazing Judy, commit her first crime.
JUDY: Well Mr. Van Muffmuncher. I just want to say that I look forward to losing, my, um.
JUDY: What did you call it before?
JUDY: Yes, I am very much looking forward to losing my conformist crimeless virginity. I would also like to share with my fans these.
JUDY: Jimmy, turn it off. We're gonna get busted.
STORE MANAGER: What the hell do you think you're
STORE MANAGER: Turn that damn thing off. You can't be running around the store playing with a camera. It's against the store policy. Now get out of here.
JUDY: What is the matter with you Jimmy? You almost got us caught. You're so worried about that camera. What is it? What is it!
JUDY: Well you freak me out sometimes. Why do you have to tape everything? It's like you have a problem or
JUDY: You know, most of the reason kids think you're so weird is because of it. Why do you think everybody makes fun of you? And then I have to hear it and I have to deal with So everybody makes fun of me, huh?
JUDY: Yeah. Can't you give the thing a fucking rest?
JIMMY: You're not getting it. It doesn't matter how it feels right now.
JIMMY: Can you?
JIMMY: Well can you at least try?
JIMMY: And you can never, ever, ever ask me to not film you or anything we do. That's the only thing I'll ever ask of you. Agreed?
JIMMY: Will you swear to it? On camera, will you swear to it?
JUDY: I Judy.
JUDY: Do hereby solemnly swear.
JUDY: That I will never ask, request, or even insinuate to Jimmy to cease filming, no matter the situation.
JUDY: I do hereby solemnly swear to g.
JIMMY: Here, you're definitely going to want to tape this.
WHAM!: Jimmy reels back and clocks the kid right in the face with the bat. The Kid falls over into the front seat of the car.
JUDY: Hi baby. I miss you. Mwaa! I'll be waiting for you when you get out. Be good and don't wait too long. Look what I did for I can't wait to use it on you!
JUDY: I can't wait to use it on you!
JIMMY: Can I get a double cheese burger, no pickles, large fries and a coke?
JIMMY: That's what I fucking missed more than anything. Fast food.
JIMMY: And a number two.
JIMMY: Masturbated mostly.
JIMMY: I hope you're willing to be on call twenty four hours a day.
JIMMY: Well, besides masturbating, I talked and talked and talked and fucking talked until they were satisfied. But basically I told them what they wanted to hear. I said shit like.
JIMMY: "Now that I'm finally able to talk about my problems, I now realize that my behavior was inappropriate and harmful to others."
JIMMY: Then I figured it out. I had to cry as much as possible. Whenever someone would cry they'd call it a "break through." So I'd be like.
JIMMY: You start out slow, then you build it up like this. "Now I know that using violence is not the
JIMMY: Then you go like this: I was wrong, I know I was wrong and I'll never do it again. I don't want to hurt people or myself.
JIMMY: Boo hoo, waaaaaa, boo-hoo-hoo, Then you always give them the obligatory hug at the end. After a couple of weeks, then they officially diagnose you with something, give you a prescription, then you're done.
JIMMY: ODD. Oppositional Defiance You're so lucky. I wish I was diagnosed with something. What does it mean?
JIMMY: ODD is a disorder characterized by an overwhelming pattern of negative, hostile, and defiant behavior which causes severe delusions where the patient can no longer distinguish fantasy from Wow. I love that!
JIMMY: You see. They fucked up my order. I specifically asked for no Oh, no! How will ODD Boy handle this? Will his ODD brain be able to withstand a pickle screw up at the drive thru?
JIMMY: Ooow, jeez, they're hot! I burnt my nipples with the pickles.
JUDY: I love it when you're out of the looney bin. Do you think you might be able to try to avoid the place for a while?
JUDY: I'm serious. You act like it's no big deal when you go away!
JUDY: No it's not all right! When you're in there I have to be out in the real world alone, by myself Jimmy. You go away and come back like it's no big deal. Well it is a big deal. I don't want to spend another day without you. Do you understand me? I'd rather die.
JUDY: If you swear on our bond, then I believe you.
JUDY: I love you so fucking much.
JUDY: I was thinking, the last time you got out we did it like five times, like as soon as we saw each other, we got naked and started doing it. And today, my parents weren't even home and I tried to do some stuff to you, but you were acting like you weren't interested.
JUDY: Was it because you jerked off so much while you were locked up?
JUDY: ( voice cracking ) Then why don't you want to have sex with me Jimmy? You don't think I'm pretty anymore?
JUDY: God, that's awful. I didn't know.
JUDY: How do you like this?
BOOM!: A loud THUMP hits the car, shaking the camera.
SSSHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!: JUDY ( O.C. )
THUMP!: The car is shaking, we hear intense struggling going on Judy unleashes a piercing, high pitched scream.
POP: A gunshot is fired.
AAAAAHHHHHHH!: POP. Another shot is fired.
JUDY: What? I'm not in the mood.
JUDY: Okay, where are we gonna go?
JUDY: Who's Dinko, Jimmy?
JUDY: JIMMY ( O.C. )
JUDY: I can't get sexy with that smell. I just can't.
DINKO: Hey! The video-man. I remember that shit when we was in together. Said you video-ed everything.
DINKO: Hey man, it's cool if you guys stay here for a while, but I have a small business to run man. There's going to be some people knocking on the door and shit. I can't have you guys answering the door or the phone. That's the only rule. Other than that man, we're going to getting fucked up together all the time. I got a shit load of crank dude, that shit is off the fucking hook. Here, take a hit.
JUDY: You're not even paying attention to me Jimmy.
JUDY: Don't I look sexy?
DINKO: You know some hustling, some good money. I'll teach you how to mix the shit. Your girlfriend too if she wants.
DINKO: ( big smile ) Yeah, man! Fuckin' high five.
DINKO: ( re: Judy ) So is she, like, your girlfriend or are you guys just fucking?
DINKO: It's all good man. I ain't gonna touch your old lady. Shit man, she's so into you anyway.
DINKO: So there's this dude. Fucker taught me everything I know about meth and shit. He'd fucking flip for your girl, man. You should go up and see him. He's in Erlanger.
JUDY: I want to meet your uncle.
JUDY: We're always naked, Jimmy.
JUDY: ( re: crank ) Fuck. Woah, that's cool.
JUDY: ( disoriented ) Uh huh.
DINKO: So you guys should like, totally go see him, man. I don't fuckin' go up there no more, 'cuz like, I got all the shit I need right here man, 'cuz my place is cool and all, but there's no fucking room here, ya know? So like you should go see him and shit.
JUDY: You like this, Jimmy?
JUDY: Do you want me to be into chicks?
JUDY: Yeah, I'm not into chicks.
DINKO: Well Hazel here will do anything we want. Ain't that right Hazel?
DINKO: You're into chicks aren't you Um, I really just want to get some stuff and get out of here.
HAZEL: Um, I really just want to get some stuff and get out of here.
DINKO: Shut up you fat fucking junkie and take your clothes off or you ain't getting shit.
DINKO: Come on!
HAZEL: I don't.
DINKO: ( screaming ) Just do it, you fucking whore!
JUDY: Jimmy doesn't do anything. He just keeps filming.
JUDY: Jimmy, stop him!
DINKO: Ever made a porno?
DINKO: Well all right! Keep filming mother fucker, I'm gonna fuck this junkie for you. You guys are free to join in whenever you like.
JUDY: I swear to God Jimmy if you let him go through with this I'll never talk to you again!
DINKO: You ready? You filming?
JUDY: ( screaming )
DINKO: ( to Jimmy ) How's this? You getting good camera angles and shit?
DINKO: ( laughing it up ) Take off them panties bitch. Oh yeah! Come on bitch. Move.
DINKO: That's it. Just like that.
DINKO: We're going to be doing this shit all the time brother.
DINKO: Fuck yeah!
DINKO: You don't have to hold a gun to her head man. There's plenty of other chicks we can do that to. If that's what you're into, then fuck it, I'll.
BAM!!!: Dinko takes a shot in the throat and falls onto Hazel. Jimmy's shot him.
JIMMY: Take it!
JIMMY: Finish him off! He deserves a bullet right in the fucking face, doesn't he?
JUDY: ( nervous, cranked out ) Yeah. Yeah. He does.
JIMMY: Then do it.
BAM: Shoots Dinko right between the eyes. Jimmy helps her again.
JUDY: I feel calm. I don't care about
JUDY: What are we going to do with the car Jimmy?
JUDY: The crank?
JUDY: The cash.
ELVIS: You know the video's gonna cost you twenty extra, right?
JIMMY: Well alright then. Let's get this sum bitch started!
ELVIS: Well alright then. Let's get this sum bitch started!
ELVIS: Weeeeeelllll, you ain't nothing but a young bride. walking down the
JIMMY: Here she comes.
ELVIS: Well, if you don't marry Jimmy, then you ain't no friend of mine.
ELVIS: Do you.
JIMMY: ( helping ) Judy. And here, we wrote our own
ELVIS: Do you Judy promise to always swallow, to never cut your hair, or have another man's penis injected into any part of your body for as long as you both shall live?
JUDY: I do.
ELVIS: Do you Jimmy promise to always fuck Judy with enthusiasm, to take a shower once a day, and promise not to inject your penis into any part of another person's body as long as you both shall live?
JIMMY: I do.
ELVIS: Can I get the rings?
ELVIS: With the power vested in me by the great state of Nevada. I do herby pronounce you husband and wife. You may kiss the bride.
ELVIS: All right you two. We got a schedule to keep.
ANCHORMAN: .press conference in a few moments. The suspect's names are James Wright and Judy Elizabeth No it's not! I'm Judy Wright now! I'm Judy Wright now!
ANCHORMAN: .from Burlington, Kentucky are wanted for questioning in the alleged murder of a Hamilton County Sheriff's Deputy that was killed two nights ago while on Patrol in the Over the Rhine section of Cincinnati. On a very serious note, the producers here at KPX-TV 4 would like to warn you that the images we are about to show are violent and graphic in nature and may not be suitable for young children. Once again, these are the images that were taken from a video camera that was mounted on board the patrol car. Viewer discretion is advised.
COP: ( on TV ) Go ahead and open it.
COP: ( on TV ) Put your hands on the vehicle.
COP: ( on TV ) On the vehicle, now!
BOOM!: A gunshot is fired.
JUDY: That's the most romantic thing I've ever even heard of.
JUDY: Oh my God, that's my parents! And your parents!
JIMMY'S MOM: ( on TV ) We are very shocked about recent events. Our son has always been a dear sweet boy who is sometimes confused, but we want him to know that we love him very, very much and just want this whole thing to be over.
JUDY'S DAD: Jimmy if you're out there, we know you're scared, but you're only making it worse. Please bring Judy back to us. We really miss her
JIMMY: Wait a second.
JUDY: I just want to look at myself one last time with hair.
JIMMY: I just want to look at myself one last time with hair.
JUDY: OK, that's enough.
JIMMY: What's the matter?
JUDY: What's the matter?
JIMMY: I'm not sure about this.
JUDY: Come on. I changed mine.
JIMMY: Yeah, but you look fucking great.
JUDY: This was your idea Jimmy.
JIMMY: Fuck it. Let's do this thing.
JIMMY: This is the look.
JIMMY: ( joking ) Let's just leave it like this.
JUDY: Don't be stupid.
JIMMY: I am one ugly mother fucker.
JUDY: It feels funny.
JIMMY: I look like Dr. Evil.
JIMMY: Come on. Let's go across the street and get a shit burger.
JIMMY: JUDY ( O.C. )
JIMMY: JUDY ( O.C. )
JIMMY: Shhhh. Shut up. Give it to me.
PARKING LOT: Action continues, the camera still rolling without Jimmy realizing it. They run at a fast clip along the parking lot as they head toward.
DINKO'S CAR: JIMMY ( O.C. )
JIMMY: I know. Just shut up! Let me
JIMMY: Are they coming?
JIMMY: ( relief ) Oh, fuck. ( to Judy ) That was close.
DAY: Jimmy films Judy, who is sleeping in the front seat of the Jimmy gently wakes her.
JUDY: Where are we?
JUDY: ( big smile )
JUDY: What am I gonna see?
JUDY: I hate it when you do that. Tell Nope. Keep looking.
JUDY: How much further! Aaa!
JUDY: Oh my God. Is that it?
JUDY: Is this where your friend lives?
JUDY: We do?
JUDY: This is sooo amazing. It's like a
JIMMY: No, that's Buddy. He said Rodney's been expecting us. We're, like, celebrities or something Judy.
JIMMY: Yeah! He wants to meet you.
JUDY: Camera shakes as Judy starts out of the car. Camera shuts EXT. RODNEY'S WUNDERLAND - OUTSIDE RODNEY'S TRAILER - DAY Buddy is standing outside of a Piece Of Shit Trailer. He's the douche bag type that we saw from a distance give Jimmy a hug in the previous scene.
BUDDY: We got like thirty five trailers here. Long as we've got some that's empty you can stay in one. Sometimes people come in and we got get you a tent or fuck, everybody's friendly- you can always find a bed to crash in.
BUDDY: It don't look like much but we do some pretty good partying around here. Ya'll are welcome to stay as long as ya like. Fuck it, you can stay forever. There's only two rules. Don't mess around with the labs which are down back there.
BUDDY: Woah. No filming that shit. Seriously. That's part of rule number one.
BUDDY: Other than that, ya'll can do whatever the hell you want, whenever the hell you want. You wanna do some of the stash at the parties, that's cool too. We'd like it if you do it, normally we'd say you gotta sell some too, but Rodney says y'all's is a special case 'cuz you ain't leaving 'til the heat's off for sure, that could be months or. shit, years for you guys. But no one up here's in a fucking hurry.
BUDDY: Look at you. Little bitch from the nut house, and you got yourself one sweet looking bride! I still can't get over the tits on this girl. Come here sweetheart.
BUDDY: We're gonna have a party for y'all tonight. You know that? We have parties damn near every night, but this one's gonna be special just for you guys. You like that sweety?
JUDY: Sure Buddy.
BUDDY: ( to Jimmy ) Nice piece of ass you got here. Best you keep an eye on it so it don't wander off on ya.
BUDDY: We're here!
BUDDY: Shit! Y'all's on your honeymoon. Ain't gonna film it yourselves.
BUDDY: How do you turn this thing off?
DAY: Jimmy is filming SALLY, a very sexy and very stoned 18 year old girl wearing sunglasses and cowboy hat.
SALLY: Just give your love to Uncle Rodney and you'll get it back ten times. Don't be afraid to love him and you'll learn to love yourself in return. He'll teach you the cycle, how we're all connected. If you give yourself freely and completely to him, you'll have nothing to worry about. That's what I did.
DAY: Jimmy is filming Random Teens at a barbecue. Jimmy is interviewing SAM, a long greasy haired, nineteen year old wearing a heavy metal T-shirt. We see people partying and hanging out in the background.
SAM: Ya'll are going to love it here man. See this?
SAM: This shit goes on every day. I been here for six months man and I love it. Thank God my parents kicked me out. All you got do is listen to Uncle Rodney and you'll have the best fucking time of your life. Oh, yeah. And don't fuck with him, 'cuz he'll kick your ass!
JUDY: Jimmy, come swimming. The water's Is it?
JUDY: Come on.
JUDY: Jimmy thinks. She smiles an oh so sweet smile.
JUDY: Hey again.
JUDY: How long will they let us stay?
JUDY: What's he like?
JUDY: Well if he's weird, he's great weird, whatever he is.
JUDY: The cops won't come will they?
JUDY: ( surprised ) The Sheriff?
JUDY: ( lights up ) Can I?
JUDY: He does?
JUDY: Oh my God!
JUDY: ( whispers ) I love you Jimmy.
JIMMY: Me too.
JIMMY: ( lying ) I would be.
JIMMY: He's suppose to be cool.
JIMMY: Um. Judy wants to meet him. I don't know if I can ask.
JIMMY: What the fuck does that mean?
UNCLE RODNEY: Take your time man. I want you to feel comfortable. More importantly, I want you to get this
UNCLE RODNEY: Just a second. I have to take care of my baby.
UNCLE RODNEY: She's beautiful isn't she?
HAZEL: ( begging, pleading )
UNCLE RODNEY: Some people come here too far gone. Like Hazel here. The only thing I can do for her is ease her pain.
HAZEL: UNCLE RODNEY ( to Hazel )
UNCLE RODNEY: ( to Hazel ) Shhhhh. How about a baby one?
HAZEL: Uncle Rodney takes his pinky and dips it into a small plastic bag of powder. He then places it to Hazel's nostril.
UNCLE RODNEY: ( to Hazel ) There you go.
UNCLE RODNEY: There's something about addiction that brings out something beautiful in a person. Addiction is pure. Addiction reduces a person to an infant. And there's nothing more pure and beautiful in the world than an infant.
UNCLE RODNEY: Hazel is no longer an adult. She's an infant and I'm the surrogate mother who provides her with much needed breast milk. It's a role that both of us have accepted and
UNCLE RODNEY: ( proudly ) That's my girl!
UNCLE RODNEY: She's a little jumpy.
UNCLE RODNEY: Let's begin shall we? And please. I'm going to use this tape for my fans, so let's try to get this right.
UNCLE RODNEY: I apologize if any of this frightens you or makes you I'll be fine.
UNCLE RODNEY: No. You won't be fine. What I'm going to teach you will be frightening. The truth is an acquired taste but once you get to it, it's all you'll ever want.
UNCLE RODNEY: Those kids out there. we, the so called "undesirables" - you and me, we know the truth. You know that society doesn't want you, your parents don't want you, corporate America sure as fuck doesn't want you. You wouldn't be here If this government had a choice, they'd gas us all in a heartbeat, exterminate us like the Jews, enslave us like niggers, cuz don't kid yourself, WE ARE the new niggers in this country. No one respects us. No one sees what we have to offer. No one has compassion for us.. They don't care, or they're too naive to see that we're a by-product of a wasteful society that has failed to educate, embrace, influence, or inspire any of us. We're societal garbage. The counter culture no longer exists. It's dead. It's been replaced by us
UNCLE RODNEY: The garbage culture. thrown aside, imprisoned, institutionalized, systematically abused, executed, and enlisted into wars started by government ass- fuckers just to kill us off. JUST TO KILL US OFF. And every week one of you shows up here, disillusioned, addicted, angry, pissed 'cuz they tossed you aside. into the garbage. Every time someone like you shows up here the garbage culture gets a little bit stronger and they get a little bit weaker. Until the "them" and the "they" of this country run out of places to put us, to put its garbage, and the garbage OVER-FLOWS into their cities from out of the confines of the spaces that they have set aside for us.
UNCLE RODNEY: ( biblical ) And we will SET FIRE to their world! And we will burn it, until a living HELL REIGNS over what was their former world, and we will fornicate in their ashes!
UNCLE RODNEY: That's what's here for you. That's what's here.
JIMMY: Where's Judy?
JUMP CUT: Who knows how much later. Minutes or hours, the party rages forward. The camera spins around. The party has reached a new level of drunken absurdity. Most of those who are dancing are drunk, stoned or both.
JUMP CUT: Moments later. Camera catches Judy who hasn't missed a step along the way to being a high, drunken mess. The rhythm of the drum beats is ever present.
UNCLE RODNEY: I'm so glad you guys came down here. We never would have guessed you'd come and see us.
JIMMY: You've been awesome. Judy loves it
UNCLE RODNEY: I knew she would. By the way.
UNCLE RODNEY: I know what you did to Dinko.
JUDY: Jimmy! Jimmy!
JIMMY: RODNEY'S BIG GUY #1 ( O.C. )
JIMMY: ( defiant ) Fuck you!
NIGHT: By the fire pit, the site where the teenage drunken of orgy took place, the bonfire has been put out and there are dozens of drunken/passed out teenagers lying on the ground in sleeping bags and in tents.
UNCLE RODNEY: Who the fuck.!
BAM!: A gunshot goes off. We hear a Uncle Rodney collapse, followed by more gun shots. The camera has fallen from Jimmy's hand and dangles by the wrist strap. Camera comes to rest on.
BUDDY: BAM, BAM, BAM! Three more rounds are fired, hitting Buddy square in the chest, knocking him down. Jimmy points the camera at a dead Buddy on his back then whip pans it back to Judy in the bed. Finally we hear Jimmy speak.
PARKING AREA: Another DISTANT SHOT, then Jimmy gasps in pain. He's been shot, but decides to run, trying to carry a groggy Judy anyway. Their car is in sight as we hear guns going off and bullets whizzing by them. One hits Dinko's car.
JIMMY: Judy? Judy?
JIMMY: Judy wake up.
JUDY: Hi, baby.
JUDY: Am I with you?
JUDY: Then I'm okay.
JUDY: Judy points the camera up at Jimmy. This is the first time we've seen him at all since he was beaten up by Uncle Rodney's group. He's a wreck. His face is puffy. His lip is cut up. His eye is swollen. He looks like a flyweight boxer who just went fifteen rounds with a heavyweight.
JIMMY: Come on. Not the camera.
JIMMY: Yeah, those were the good old days. How much money do we have?
JIMMY: How do you feel about Canada? It's Are we going together?
JIMMY: I think I should take you home.
JIMMY: I could write you a letter. Or I could make a video saying I made you do everything. They'd believe you. You could tell them it was all my fault. You could tell them I was going to Mexico and I'd really go to Canada.
JIMMY: We swore on the bond we'd never be apart. but.
JIMMY: Judy leans in and kisses him.
JIMMY: Judy comes back into the passenger seat and just films him. She likes looking at him through the lens.
JUDY: You wanted to ask me something?
JUDY: You know I do.
JUDY: JIMMY ( O.C. ) JIMMY ( O.C. )
JUDY: JIMMY ( O.C. )
JUDY: What do you mean?
JUDY: Don't do this.
JUDY: ( freaks ) Shut up!
JUDY: I love you too.
JUDY: ( soft ) It is.
JUDY: The car stops short. Jimmy turns the camera to point out the windshield. They're stuck. The road has come to a dead end.
JUDY: ( lying ) Come on, it's over. I'll do what I said before. I'll tell them I made you do it. It'll be okay.
JUDY: No. I want us to be together.
JUDY: Yes we can. I won't give you up. I won't let you go. No way.
JUDY: ( murmurs ) We'll be together. We'll be together. We'll be together. We'll be together.
THE ROADBLOCK: Impact sends the camera flying against the windshield,
