JUNO: Written by Diablo Cody
WHISPERED VOICE: Do you know how long I've wanted
JUNO: WHISPERED VOICE
WHISPERED VOICE: EXT. CENTENNIAL LANE - CONTINUED A DOG barks, jarring Juno back to reality.
JUNO: Quiet, Banana. Hey, shut your gob for a second, okay?
ROLLO: Well, well. If it isn't MacGuff the Crime Dog! Back for another test?
JUNO: I think the last one was defective. The plus sign looked more like a division sign.
JUNO: I remain unconvinced.
ROLLO: This is your third test today, Mama Bear. Your eggo is preggo, no doubt about it!
TOUGH GIRL: Three times? Oh girl, you are way pregnant. It's easy to tell. Is your nipples real brown?
TOUGH GIRL: Juno crosses and crosses her legs awkwardly, hopping. It's obvious she has to use the bathroom urgently.
ROLLO: Maybe you're having twins. Maybe your little boyfriend's got mutant sperms and he knocked you up twice!
JUNO: Silencio! I just drank my weight in Sunny D. and I have to go, pronto.
ROLLO: Well, you know where the lavatory You pay for that pee stick when you're done! Don't think it's yours just because you've marked it with your Jesus, I didn't say it was.
JUNO: Jesus, I didn't say it was.
ROLLO: Well, it's not. You're not a lion in a pride! These kids, acting like lions with their unplanned pregnancies and their Sunny Delights.
JUNO: Oh, and this too.
ROLLO: So what's the prognosis, Fertile Myrtle? Minus or plus?
JUNO: ( examining stick ) I don't know. It's not. seasoned yet. Wait. Huh. Yeah, there's that pink plus sign again. God, it's
ROLLO: That ain't no Etch-a-Sketch. This is one doodle that can't be undid,
LEAH: ( answering phone ) I am a suicide risk.
JUNO: I am a suicide risk.
LEAH: Is this Juno?
JUNO: No it's Morgan Freeman. Got any bones that need collecting?
LEAH: Only the one in my pants.
JUNO: ( in low tones ) Dude, I'm pregnant.
LEAH: Maybe it's just a food baby. Did you have a big lunch?
JUNO: It's not a food baby. I took three pregnancy tests today. I am definitely up the spout.
LEAH: How did you even generate enough pee for three pregnancy tests?
JUNO: I drank like ten tons of Sunny Delight. Anyway, yeah. I'm pregnant. And you're shockingly cavalier.
LEAH: Is this for real? Like for real, for Unfortunately, yes.
JUNO: Unfortunately, yes.
LEAH: Oh my God! Oh shit! Phuket Thailand!
JUNO: That's the kind of emotion I was looking for in the first take.
LEAH: Well, are you going to go to Havenbrooke or Women Now for the abortion? You need a note from your parents for Havenbrooke.
JUNO: I know. Women Now, I guess. The commercial says they help women now.
LEAH: Want me to call for you? I called for Becky last year.
JUNO: Eh, I'll call them myself. But I do need your help with something very
LEAH: Heavy lifting can only help you at this point.
JUNO: That is sick, man.
LEAH: So, you were bored? Is that how this blessed miracle came to be?
JUNO: Nah, it was a premeditated act. The sex, I mean, not getting pregnant.
LEAH: When did you decide you were going to do Bleeker?
JUNO: Like, a year ago, in Spanish class.
LEAH: Aha! You love him.
JUNO: It's extremely complicated, and I'd rather not talk about it in my fragile
LEAH: So, what was it like humping Bleeker's bony bod?
JUNO: It was magnificent, man!
JUNO: Hey Bleek.
BLEEKER: Hey, cool tiger. Looks proud.
JUNO: Yeah, I swiped it from Ms. Rancick.
BLEEKER: Your shorts are looking especially gold today.
JUNO: Your shorts are looking especially gold today.
BLEEKER: My mom uses color-safe bleach.
JUNO: Go Carole. So, guess what?
BLEEKER: ( shrugs ) I don't know.
JUNO: I'm pregnant.
BLEEKER: I guess so. What are you going to do?
BLEEKER: I'm supposed to be running.
JUNO: I know.
BLEEKER: So, what do you think we should do?
JUNO: I thought I might, you know, nip it in the bud before it gets worse. Because I heard in health class that pregnancy often results in an infant.
BLEEKER: Yeah, typically. That's what happens when our moms and teachers get So that's cool with you, then?
JUNO: So that's cool with you, then?
BLEEKER: Yeah, wizard, I guess. I mean do what you think is right.
JUNO: I'm real sorry I had sex with you. I know it wasn't your idea.
BLEEKER: Whose idea was it?
JUNO: I'll see you at school, O.K.?
BLEEKER: ( to nobody in particular ) Whose idea was it?
NERD: You did not! You don't have the armor. That Orc Armor you bought from the wizard doesn't have the power level to parry my hit!
STEVE RENDAZO: Hey, your book fell apart!
JUNO: STEVE RENDAZO
STEVE RENDAZO: It must have looked at your face.
PWAH!: He high-fives his klatch of buddies and moves along.
LEAH: ( from a distance ) Me too! I love Woody Allen!
MR. TINKER: People! We're doing our photomagnetism lab today, so find your partner and break out into fours.
JUNO: Well! Nothing like experimenting.
BLEEKER: I did the prep questions for this lab last night. You can copy my answers if you need to.
JUNO: Oh, I couldn't copy your work.
BLEEKER: But you copy my work every week.
JUNO: Oh yeah. I'm kind of a deadbeat lab partner, huh?
BLEEKER: I don't mind. You definitely bring something to the table.
JUNO: Or something.
BLEEKER: Or something.
JUNO: So, who's ready for some I have a menstrual migraine, and I can't look at bright lights today.
BLEEKER: Okay. I'm going to set up the apparatus. Juno, want to get a C clamp out of that drawer?
JUNO: Snow Peak Peach is the best flavor of Boone's. Right, Bleek?
JUNO: ( talking along with voice prompt ) "Para instruciones en Espanol, oprima numero dos."
JUNO: Yes, hello, I need to procure a hasty abortion?. What was that? I'm sorry, I'm on my hamburger phone and it's kind of awkward to talk on. It's really more of a novelty than a functional appliance.
JUNO: Better? Okay, good. Yeah, as I said, I need an abortion, two. sixteen. Um, it was approximately two months and four days ago that I had the sex. That's a guestimate. Okay, next Saturday? Great.
MAC: You should have seen this octopus furnace. I had to get out my Hazmat suit just to get up in there.
MAC: So Juno, how did your maneuver go last night?
JUNO: Which maneuver, sir? The one in which I moved an entire living room set from one lawn to another, or the one in which I cleared a sixty-four ounce blue slushie in ten minutes?
BREN: Juno? Did you happen to barf in my urn? Mac, you know that nice urn by the front door, the one I got up in Stillwater? I found some weird blue shit, I mean stuff, gunk, in there this morning.
JUNO: I would never barf in your urn, Brenda. Maybe L.B. did it. Liberty Bell, if I see one more Baco on that potato, I'm gonna kick your monkey ass.
MAC: Liberty Bell, if I see one more Baco on that potato, I'm gonna kick your monkey ass.
MURDERING.": LONE PROTESTER ( chanting in extremely shy, accented voice )
LONE PROTESTER: ( chanting in extremely shy, accented voice ) All babies want to get borned! All babies want to get borned!
JUNO: Uh, hi Su-Chin.
JUNO: Good. I'm good. Did you finish that paper for Worth's class yet?
JUNO: You should try Adderall.
JUNO: Wise move. I know this girl who had a huge crazy freakout because she took too many behavioral meds at once. She took off her clothes and jumped into the fountain at Ridgedale Mall and she was like, "Blaaaaah! I'm a kraken from the sea!"
JUNO: Well, it was nice seeing you.
JUNO: Really? Fingernails?
PUNK RECEPTIONIST: Welcome to Women's Choice, where women are trusted friends. Please put your hands where I can see them and surrender any bombs.
JUNO: Hi. I'm here for the big show?
PUNK RECEPTIONIST: Your name, please?
JUNO: Juno MacGuff.
PUNK RECEPTIONIST: I need you to fill these out, both sides. And don't skip the hairy details. We need to know about every score and every sore.
PUNK RECEPTIONIST: Would you like some free condoms? They're boysenberry.
JUNO: No thank you. I'm off sex.
PUNK RECEPTIONIST: My partner uses these every time we have intercourse. They make his balls smell like pie.
JUNO: She takes a seat in the WAITING ROOM and rifles through a pile of old magazines. The magazine selection is lots of "mommy mags" and health related periodicals. She selects an issue of Family Digest and gingerly flips through for a few Then she looks over and notices the FINGERNAILS of a nearby teen, who looks as nervous as she does. The girl bites her thumbnail and spits it onto the floor. Juno looks away, but immediately notices another waiting woman, who absently scratches her arm with long fake nails. Suddenly, she sees fingernails EVERYWHERE. The receptionist clicks her nails on the front desk. Another woman blows on her fresh manicure. Everyone seems to be fidgeting with their fingers somehow. Juno suddenly looks terror-stricken.
PUNK RECEPTIONIST: Excuse me, Miss MacGoof?
LEAH: What are you doing here, dumbass? I thought I was supposed to pick you up at four.
JUNO: I couldn't do it, Leah! It smelled like a dentist in there. They had these really horrible magazines, with, like, spritz cookie recipes and bad fiction and water stains, like someone read them in the tub. And the receptionist tried to give me these weird condoms that looked like grape suckers, and she told me about her boyfriend's pie balls, and Su-Chin Kuah was there, and she told me the baby had fingernails. Oh, gruesome. I wonder if the baby's claws could scratch your vag on the way out?
LEAH: Oh, gruesome. I wonder if the baby's claws could scratch your vag on the way out?
JUNO: I'm staying pregnant, Le.
LEAH: Keep your voice down dude, my mom's around here somewhere. She doesn't know we're sexually active.
JUNO: What does that even mean? Anyway, I got to thinking on the way over. I was thinking maybe I could give the baby to somebody who actually likes that kind of thing. You know, like a woman with a bum ovary or something. Or some nice lesbos.
LEAH: But then you'll get huge. Your chest is going to milktate. And you have to tell everyone you're pregnant.
JUNO: I know. Maybe they'll canonize me for being so selfless.
LEAH: Maybe they'll totally shit and be super mad at you and not let you graduate or go to Cabo San Lucas for spring break.
JUNO: Bleeker and I were going to go to Gettysburg for spring break.
LEAH: Well, maybe you could look at one of those adoption ads. I see them all the time in the Penny Saver.
JUNO: There are ads? For parents?
LEAH: Oh yeah! "Desperately Seeking Spawn." They're right by the ads for like, iguanas and terriers and used fitness equipment. It's totally legit.
JUNO: Come on, Leah. I can't scope out wannabe parents in the Penny Saver! That's tacky. That's like buying clothes at the Pump n' Munch.
JUNO: The Penny Saver sucks.
LEAH: Yeah, but it sucks for free.
LEAH: Look at this one "Wholesome, spiritually wealthy couple have found true love with each other." "All that's missing is your bastard."
JUNO: ( reading a different page ) There's a guy in here who's giving away a piano. Free for the hauling! We should put it in Bleeker's yard.
LEAH: You're not listening to me.
JUNO: No, I heard you. I just can't give the baby to people who describe themselves as "wholesome." I'm looking for something a little edgier.
LEAH: What did you have in mind, a family of disturbed loners who are into gunplay and incest?
JUNO: I was thinking a graphic designer, mid-thirties, and his cool Asian wife who dresses awesome and plays bass. But I'm trying to not be too All right, how about this one? "Healthy, educated couple seeking infant to join our family of five. You will be compensated. Help us complete the circle of love."
LEAH: All right, how about this one? "Healthy, educated couple seeking infant to join our family of five. You will be compensated. Help us complete the circle of love."
JUNO: Yeesh, they sound like a cult. Besides, they're greedy bitches. They already have three kids!
LEAH: Hey, Juno. Juno! Look at this one.
BLEEKER'S MOM: Paul? Are you coming downstairs to I don't think so.
BLEEKER: I don't think so.
BLEEKER'S MOM: You ran eight miles today, Puppy.
BLEEKER: I'm not hungry, oddly.
BLEEKER'S MOM: But it's breakfast for supper. Your favorite, Paulie. I made French toast and sausage. Patties, not linkies, just like you like it.
BLEEKER'S MOM: Juno MacGuff called while you were out running. She wants to know if you're coming to her little coffeehouse performance on Saturday.
BLEEKER: Thanks for the message.
BLEEKER'S MOM: You know how I feel about her.
BLEEKER: You've mentioned it about fifty times.
BLEEKER'S MOM: I just hope you don't consider her a close friend.
JUNO: I have no idea how to spit this out.
BREN: Hon, did you get expelled?
JUNO: No. The school would probably contact you in the event of my expulsion.
BREN: Well, I was just asking. It seemed Do you need a large sum of money? Legal counsel?
MAC: Do you need a large sum of money? Legal counsel?
JUNO: No, no, I'm definitely not asking for anything. Except maybe mercy. Like, it would be really great if nobody hit me.
MAC: What have you done, Junebug? Did you hit someone with the Previa?
LEAH: Best to just tell them, man. Rip off the Band-Aid and let it bleed.
JUNO: I'm pregnant.
BREN: Oh, God.
JUNO: But I'm going to give it up for adoption. I already found the perfect
JUNO: They say they're going to pay my medical expenses and everything. I promise this will all be resolved in thirty-odd weeks, and we can pretend it never happened.
MAC: You're pregnant?
JUNO: I'm so sorry, you guys. If it's any consolation, I have heartburn that's like, radiating down to my kneecaps and I haven't gone number two since Wednesday. Morning!
BREN: ( interrupting ) I didn't even know you were sexually
MAC: Who is the kid?
JUNO: The baby? I don't know anything about it yet. I only know it's got fingernails, allegedly.
BREN: Nails? Really?
MAC: No, I mean the father! Who's the father, Juno?
JUNO: Oh. It's, well, it's Paulie Bleeker.
JUNO: Paulie Bleeker? I didn't know he had it in him!
MAC: Paulie Bleeker? I didn't know he had it in him!
BREN: ( giggling ) He just doesn't look, well, virile.
LEAH: I know, right?
MAC: Okay, this is no laughing matter.
JUNO: ( indignant ) No, it's not. Paulie is virile, by the way. He was very good in. chair.
MAC: Did you say you were thinking about Yeah, well, there's this couple who've been trying to have a baby for five We found them in the Penny Saver by the exotic birds section.
JUNO: Yeah, well, there's this couple who've been trying to have a baby for five We found them in the Penny Saver by the exotic birds section.
LEAH: We found them in the Penny Saver by the exotic birds section.
JUNO: But they have a real lawyer and everything. I'm going to meet with them next weekend.
BREN: Junebug, that is a tough, tough thing to do. Probably tougher than you can understand right now.
JUNO: Well, I'm not ready to be a mom.
MAC: Damn skippy, you're not! You don't even remember to give Liberty Bell her breathing meds.
JUNO: Once! And she didn't die, if you Honey, had you considered, you know, the alternative?
BREN: Honey, had you considered, you know, the alternative?
JUNO: Well, you're a brave young lady. You're made of stronger stuff than I thought. You're a little Viking!
BREN: Well, you're a brave young lady. You're made of stronger stuff than I thought. You're a little Viking!
JUNO: Cool it.
BREN: First things first, we have to get you healthy. You need prenatal vitamins. Incidentally, they'll do incredible things for your nails, so that's a plus. Oh, and we need to schedule a doctor's appointment. Find out where you're going to The term "deliver" is so weird. Can we not say "deliver"?
JUNO: The term "deliver" is so weird. Can we not say "deliver"?
LEAH: How does "crap it out" sound?
MAC: Juno, I want to come with you to meet these adoption people. You're just a kid. I don't want you to get ripped off by a couple of babystarved Sure, Dad.
JUNO: Sure, Dad.
MAC: I thought you were the kind of girl who knew when to say when.
JUNO: I have no idea what kind of girl I Why don't you girls go upstairs for a while? I think Mac's gonna blow.
BREN: ( sensing tension ) Why don't you girls go upstairs for a while? I think Mac's gonna blow.
MAC: Just tell it to me straight, Bren. Do you think this is my fault? Her mother's fault?
BREN: I think kids get bored and have intercourse. And I think Junebug was a dummy about it. But we have to move on from here and help her figure it out.
MAC: I'm not ready to be a Pop-Pop.
BREN: You're not going to be a Pop-Pop. And Juno's not going to be a ma. Somebody else is going to find a precious blessing from Jesus in this garbage dump of a situation. I friggin' hope.
MAC: ( conspiratorially ) Did you see it coming when she sat us down here?
BREN: Oh God yeah. But I was hoping she was expelled or into hard drugs.
MAC: That was my first instinct too. Or D.W.I. Anything but this. And I'm going to punch that Bleeker kid in the weiner the next time I see him.
BREN: Oh Mac, no! He's a sweet kid. You know it wasn't his idea.
VANESSA: Hi! I'm Vanessa. You must be Juno and Mr. MacGuff. I'm Vanessa.
JUNO: Vanessa, right?
MAC: Hello. Thank you for having me and my irresponsible child over to your Oh no. Thank you. Come on in.
VANESSA: Oh no. Thank you. Come on in.
VANESSA: Can I take your coats?
JUNO: She takes off her hooded sweatshirt and thrusts it into Vanessa's arms who sets it on a bench.
JUNO: Wicked pic in the Penny Saver, by the way. Super classy. Not like those other people with the fake woods in the background. Like I'm really going to fall for that, you know?
VANESSA: You found us in the Penny Saver?
MARK: Hi. I'm Mark Loring. I'm the husband.
MARK: This is our attorney, Gerta Rauss.
JUNO: ( in exaggerated, growling German accent ) Geeeerta Rauuuss!
GERTA: ( straight ) Nice to meet you.
MAC: I'm Mac MacGuff, and this, of course, is my daughter Juno.
MARK: Like the city in Alaska?
JUNO: Cool. Well, let's sit down and get to know each other a bit.
MARK: Cool. Well, let's sit down and get to know each other a bit.
VANESSA: I'll get drinks. What would everyone like? I've got Pellegrino, Vitamin A Maker's Mark, please. Up.
JUNO: A Maker's Mark, please. Up.
MAC: She's joking. Junebug has a wonderful sense of humor, which is just one of her many genetic gifts.
JUNO: I also have good teeth. No cavities. We finally got fluoridated water in Dancing Elk.
MAC: We're fine, thank you.
GERTA: So, Juno. First off, how far along are you?
JUNO: I'm a junior.
GERTA: No, I mean in your pregnancy.
JUNO: Oh. Uh, my stepmom took me to the doctor yesterday and they said I was twelve weeks.
VANESSA: Oh, that's marvelous. So you're almost into your second trimester, then?
JUNO: Yeah, apparently. I'm having it on May 4.
VANESSA: The tough part's almost over for you. I mean, my girlfriends always tell me the first couple months are the hardest.
JUNO: Yeah, but I hardly noticed it. I'm more worried about the part where I have to start wearing jeans with an elastic panel in the front.
VANESSA: I think pregnancy is beautiful.
JUNO: Well, you're lucky it's not you.
MARK: ( clearing throat ) So, let's discuss how we're gonna do this. thing.
JUNO: Well, I just have the baby and give it to you, right?
GERTA: Mark and Vanessa are willing to negotiate an open adoption.
MAC: ( protective ) Wait. What does that mean?
GERTA: It means they'd send annual updates, photos, let Juno know how the baby is doing as he or she grows up. Of course, Juno's legal rights would be Whoah. I don't want to see pictures. I don't need to be notified of anything. Can't we just kick it old school? I could just put the baby in a basket and send it your way. You know, like Moses in the reeds.
JUNO: Whoah. I don't want to see pictures. I don't need to be notified of anything. Can't we just kick it old school? I could just put the baby in a basket and send it your way. You know, like Moses in the reeds.
MARK: Technically, that would be kickin' it Old Testament.
JUNO: Yeah. Yeah! The way people used to do it. Quick and dirty, like ripping off a Band-Aid.
GERTA: Well, then we agree a traditional closed adoption would be best for all involved, then?
JUNO: Shit, yeah. Close it up.
MARK: Obviously, we'll compensate you for your medical expenses.
VANESSA: Are you looking for any other Excuse me?
MAC: Excuse me?
JUNO: Well, no. I'm not going to sell the baby. I just want it to grow up with people who are ready to love it and be parents. I'm in high school, dude. I'm ill-equipped.
VANESSA: You're doing an amazing and selfless thing for us.
MARK: Vanessa has wanted a baby since we got married.
VANESSA: I want to be a mommy so badly!
MAC: You don't say.
VANESSA: Well, haven't you ever felt like you were born to do something?
MAC: Yes. Heating and air conditioning.
VANESSA: Well, I was born to be a mother. Some of us are.
JUNO: Mark, are you looking forward to being a dad?
MARK: Sure, why not? I mean, every guy wants to be a father. Coach soccer, help with science projects and. I don't know. Fatherly stuff.
VANESSA: Well, shall we start looking over the paperwork? Gerta has already drafted some preliminary documents.
JUNO: Can I use the facilities first? Being pregnant makes you pee like Sure. The powder room down here is being re-tiled, but you can use the master bath upstairs. Go up, then turn left and on your right.
VANESSA: Sure. The powder room down here is being re-tiled, but you can use the master bath upstairs. Go up, then turn left and on your right.
JUNO: Room with a toilet, got it.
JUNO: Whoops! Yikes, I didn't expect to see you up here.
MARK: Sorry. I was just getting something.
JUNO: Did your wife send you up here to spy on me?
MARK: What? No! Do we come off like paranoid yuppies or something?
JUNO: Well, you don't just invite a random pregnant teenager into your house and leave her unsupervised. I could be a total klepto, for all you know.
MARK: I don't get a klepto vibe from you. Evil genius? Maybe. Arsonist? Wouldn't rule it out.
JUNO: I did steal a squirt of perfume. What do you think? It's Clinique
JUNO: Smell those sparkling topnotes!
MARK: Am I supposed to feel happy now?
JUNO: You should be happy, Holmes. I'm giving you and Vanessa the gift of life. Sweet, screaming, pooping life! And you don't even have to be there when the baby comes out of me all covered in.
MARK: Blood and guts.
JUNO: Blood and guts.
MARK: We'd better get back downstairs ASAP.
JUNO: ( halting ) Wait a minute. Is that a Les Paul?
MARK: Oh. That's, uh, my room. Vanessa lets me have a room for all my old Wow, you get a whole room in your own house? She's got you on a long leash there, Mark.
JUNO: Wow, you get a whole room in your own house? She's got you on a long leash there, Mark.
MARK: Shut up.
JUNO: It's beautiful. I've always liked Gibson better than Fender.
MARK: What do you play?
JUNO: I rock a Harmony.
MARK: ( holding back a chuckle ) What? I'm a pawn shop rocker.
JUNO: What? I'm a pawn shop rocker.
MARK: Sorry. I swear I'm not a gear snob.
JUNO: What is that, Mahogany? What happens if you crack the neck?
MARK: Tell me about it. I used to play in a really tight band back when I lived in Chicago, and one night we opened for the Melvins. do you know who the Melvins are?
JUNO: ( lying ) Well, we were playing with them and I busted this guitar onstage. It cost me $800 and a dime bag just to have it fixed.
MARK: Well, we were playing with them and I busted this guitar onstage. It cost me $800 and a dime bag just to have it fixed.
JUNO: When was this, like '96?
MARK: '93. I'm telling you that was the best time for rock and roll.
JUNO: Nuh-uh, 1977! Punk Volume 1. You weren't there, so you can't understand the magic.
MARK: You weren't even alive!
MAC: So. What's that thing?
VANESSA: A Pilates machine?
MAC: What do you make with that?
VANESSA: You don't make anything. It's for
MAC: My wife just ordered one of those Tony Little Gazelles off the TV, you know, from the guy with the ponytail?
MAC: That guy just doesn't look right to
VANESSA: ( to her guests ) Will you excuse me?
MARK: ( passionate singing )
VANESSA: You guys are playing music?
MARK: Juno just wanted a closer look at Kimber here.
JUNO: Your guitar is named Kimber?
MARK: That's all right. My axe is named Roosevelt. After Franklin, not Ted. Franklin was the hot one with the I think Gerta is waiting for us downstairs with some important stuff for us to go over.
JUNO: That's all right. My axe is named Roosevelt. After Franklin, not Ted. Franklin was the hot one with the I think Gerta is waiting for us downstairs with some important stuff for us to go over.
VANESSA: I think Gerta is waiting for us downstairs with some important stuff for us to go over.
VANESSA: Didn't mean to interrupt the jam
GERTA: So, look those over and give me a call at my office if you have any Juno, we'd really appreciate it if you could keep us updated on any doctor's appointments, ultrasounds, other things of that nature.
VANESSA: Juno, we'd really appreciate it if you could keep us updated on any doctor's appointments, ultrasounds, other things of that nature.
JUNO: Oh. Sure. Of course you'd want to know how your kid is cooking.
VANESSA: So, then, you really think you're going to go ahead with this?
JUNO: Yeah. For sure. I like you guys.
VANESSA: How sure? Percentage-wise, would you say you're 80% sure, 90% sure?
JUNO: I'm going to say I'm 104% sure.
VANESSA: Oh really?
JUNO: Look, if I could give it to you now, I would. But it probably looks like a Sea Monkey at this point, so I think we should leave it in there for a while until it gets cuter, you I think that's a great idea.
MAC: I think that's a great idea.
MARK: That's great, right? Stellar news. Well, you guys drive safe, and we'll hear from you soon, all right?
MAC: All right, take care of yourselves.
GERTA: ( overly aggressive ) All RIGHT!
VIJAY: Hey man.
BLEEKER: Oh, hey Vijay.
VIJAY: Did you hear Juno MacGuff is pregnant?
BLEEKER: Just like our moms and teachers!
VIJAY: Just like our moms and teachers!
BLEEKER: Did you hear it's yours?
VIJAY: Did you hear it's yours?
BLEEKER: What a trip, man.
VIJAY: What a trip, man.
BLEEKER: I don't really know anything about You should grow a moustache. You're a real man now.
VIJAY: You should grow a moustache. You're a real man now.
BLEEKER: I can't grow a moustache. It never comes in evenly.
VIJAY: Me neither. But I'm going to stop wearing underpants in order to raise my sperm count. See you.
BLEEKER: Hey Juno. A couple of us are going to the cineplex after school to donut that movie with the guy with eighteen Sorry, Bleek. Going for my ultrasound. Gotta note and everything.
JUNO: Sorry, Bleek. Going for my ultrasound. Gotta note and everything.
BLEEKER: Okay, cool.
JUNO: I'll try to drop by later.
ULTRASOUND TECH: That's the feet.
ALL THREE: ULTRASOUND TECH
ULTRASOUND TECH: And there's a hand.
ALL THREE: ( various ) Check that out. No way.
BREN: ( dreamily ) Would you look at that?
LEAH: Check out Baby Big-Head. That kid is Hey, I'm a sacred vessel. All you've got in your belly is Taco Bell!
JUNO: Hey, I'm a sacred vessel. All you've got in your belly is Taco Bell!
LEAH: ( gazing at the monitor ) It is really weird looking. It's like it's not even real. I can't believe there are saps who actually cry at these things. What? I'm not made of stone.
JUNO: ( gazing at the monitor ) It is really weird looking. It's like it's not even real. I can't believe there are saps who actually cry at these things. What? I'm not made of stone.
BREN: What? I'm not made of stone.
ULTRASOUND TECH: Well, there we have it. Would you like to know the sex?
LEAH: Aw, please Junebug?
JUNO: No way. No, I definitely don't want to know.
ULTRASOUND TECH: Planning to be surprised when you I want Mark and Vanessa to be surprised, and if I know, I won't be able to keep myself from telling them and ruining the whole thing.
JUNO: I want Mark and Vanessa to be surprised, and if I know, I won't be able to keep myself from telling them and ruining the whole thing.
ULTRASOUND TECH: ( condescending ) Are Mark and Vanessa your friends at No, they're the people who are adopting the baby.
JUNO: No, they're the people who are adopting the baby.
ULTRASOUND TECH: Oh. Well, thank goodness for that.
BREN: Wait, what's that supposed to mean?
ULTRASOUND TECH: I just see a lot of teenage mothers come through here. It's obviously a poisonous environment for a baby to be raised in.
JUNO: How do you know I'm so poisonous? Like, what if the adoptive parents turn out to be evil molesters?
LEAH: Or stage parents!
BREN: They could be utterly negligent. Maybe they'll do a far shittier job of raising a kid than my dumbass stepdaughter ever would. Have you considered that?
ULTRASOUND TECH: No. I guess not.
BREN: What is your job title, exactly?
ULTRASOUND TECH: Excuse me?
BREN: I said, what-is-your-job-title, Missy?
ULTRASOUND TECH: I'm an ultrasound technician, ma'am.
BREN: Well I'm a nail technician, and I think we both ought to stick to what we know.
ULTRASOUND TECH: What are you talking about?
BREN: You think you're special because you get to play Picture Pages up there?
BREN: My five year-old daughter could do that, and let me tell you, she is not the brightest bulb in the tanning bed. So why don't you go back to night school in Manteno and learn a real trade!
JUNO: Bren, you're a dick! I love it.
MARK: Juno? Wow, I didn't expect to see you here.
JUNO: I've got something really cool to show you guys. Is Vanessa here?
MARK: No, she's working late tonight. She's trying to accrue some extra time off for when, you know.
JUNO: Right. I hear they can be kind of a Come on in. You wanna Ginseng Cooler?
MARK: Come on in. You wanna Ginseng Cooler?
JUNO: Sure. What is it with you rich people and your herb-infused juices?
MARK: I don't know. Something to do with the four-packs. .They're not bad.
JUNO: Why aren't you at work?
MARK: I mostly work from home. I'm a No shit. Like Johannes Brahms?
JUNO: No shit. Like Johannes Brahms?
MARK: No, more commercial stuff.
JUNO: Like what?
MARK: Have you seen those ads for Titanium Power men's deodorant?
JUNO: Have you seen those ads for Titanium Power men's deodorant?
MARK: Have you seen those ads for Titanium Power men's deodorant?
JUNO: ( singing ) Titanium Power! Get more snatch by the batch!
MARK: I wrote that.
JUNO: You're kind of a sellout, aren't you? What would the Melvins say?
MARK: They'd say you came a long way out here not knowing if anyone would be
JUNO: Come on, you're going to want to sit down for this.
JUNO: Park it, dude.
JUNO: Behold, good sir! The very first photo of your future child.
MARK: You're kidding!
JUNO: I think it kind of looks like my friend, Paulie.
MARK: ( joking ) Oh, is he bald and amorphous?
JUNO: No, he's the dad.
MARK: Can you tell if it's a boy or a girl?
JUNO: The doctor can tell, but I decided not to know. I want it to be a big Well, it can really only go two ways.
MARK: Well, it can really only go two ways.
JUNO: That's what you think. I drink tons of booze so you might get one of those scary neuter-babies that's born without junk.
MARK: You know. it's parts.
JUNO: You know. it's parts.
MARK: I know what junk is.
JUNO: ( teasing ) We definitely want it to have junk.
MARK: We definitely want it to have junk.
JUNO: Well don't worry about it. My stepmom is forcing me to eat really healthy. She won't even let me stand in front of the microwave or eat red M&Ms. Hope you're ready.
MARK: Wait.do you hear that?
JUNO: What is it?
MARK: It's only my favorite song. It's Sonic Youth doing "Superstar" by the I've heard the Carpenters before. Chick drummer and freaky dude. Not unlike the White Stripes.
JUNO: ( excited ) I've heard the Carpenters before. Chick drummer and freaky dude. Not unlike the White Stripes.
MARK: You haven't heard the Carpenters like this. Listen.
MARK: ( lipsynching ) Don't you remember you told me you loved me, baby.
JUNO: Hey, I like this.
MARK: This album is all Carpenters covers by alt-rock bands. It's called If I Were a Carpenter. It is God. I'll rip a copy for you before you leave.
JUNO: You don't have to do that.
MARK: It's the least I can do. What did you say your favorite band was?
JUNO: I didn't. But it's a three-way tie between the Stooges, Patti Smith and the Runaways.
MARK: Yeah, I definitely need to make you some CDs. At least while my kid is hanging out in there.
JUNO: ( reading title ) The Wizard of Gore?
MARK: ( distracted ) Oh yeah. It's Herschel Gordon Lewis. He's the ultimate master of horror.
JUNO: Please. Dario Argento is the ultimate master of horror.
MARK: Argento's good, but Lewis is completely demented. We're talking buckets of goo. Red corn syrup everywhere. And fake brains up the Frankly, this looks kind of stupid.
JUNO: ( examining the tape box ) Frankly, this looks kind of stupid.
JUNO: ( watching movie ) This is even better than Suspiria. You've got decent taste in slasher movies, Mark.
MARK: Here's to dovetailing interests.
JUNO: So, have you and Vanessa thought of a name for the baby yet?
MARK: Well, sort of. Vanessa likes Madison for a girl.
JUNO: ( aghast ) Madison? Isn't that kind of. I don't know, gay?
MARK: God, pretentious much? I guess everyone should have a mysterious name like Juno, huh?
JUNO: My dad went through this phase where he was obsessed with Greek and Roman mythology. He named me after Zeus's wife. I mean, Zeus had other lays, but I'm pretty sure Juno was his only wife. She was supposed to be really beautiful but really mean. Like Diana Ross.
MARK: That suits you.
JUNO: Uh, thanks.
MARK: You know, not many teenage girls in your situation would actually go through with this.
JUNO: I weighed my options. But after all this, I'm glad I didn't, you know, get rid of it. I want to have it. For you guys.
MARK: You're something else.
MARK: Vanessa. Shit, you better get out of Why? What the big deal?
JUNO: Why? What the big deal?
MARK: Nothing. She just hates when I sit around watching movies and 'not I'll handle this. I'm really good at diffusing mom-type rage.
JUNO: I'll handle this. I'm really good at diffusing mom-type rage.
MARK: Wait. aww, crap!
VANESSA: Mark? Are you home? I want to show you some things I picked up.
JUNO: Hi Vanessa!
VANESSA: Juno! God, you startled me. What are you doing here? What's wrong?
JUNO: Then what's going on?
VANESSA: Then what's going on?
JUNO: I went to the doctor today.
VANESSA: Is the baby okay?
JUNO: Sure. It's the right size and everything. I even saw its phalanges today! Check this.
VANESSA: This is the baby. Your baby.
JUNO: This is the baby. Your baby.
VANESSA: Oh my God.
JUNO: ( kindly ) Doesn't it look like it's waving? It's kind of like it's saying "Hi, Vanessa. Will you be my mommy?"
VANESSA: Yeah. Yeah, it kind of does.
MARK: Juno was nice enough to bring this by for us.
JUNO: I came over as soon as I got that cold ultrasound goo off my pelvis. My stepmom verbally abused the ultrasound tech so we were escorted off the premises.
VANESSA: ( distracted ) Oh, that's great!
JUNO: See? Nothing to worry about.
JUNO: Hey, what kind of swag did you score?
MARK: Yeah. Mall madness, huh?
VANESSA: Oh it's just some stuff I picked up. For, you know, the baby. Babies need a lot of things. I want everything to be just right.
JUNO: I thought people got all that stuff at baby showers. When my stepmom had my sister I remember she got about a million presents. They were all lame though, so I wasn't jealous.
MARK: I doubt anyone's throwing us a shower.
JUNO: Um, I think people are kind of unsure about the situation because it's not, you know, set in stone.
VANESSA: Um, I think people are kind of unsure about the situation because it's not, you know, set in stone.
JUNO: What do you mean? You mean. Do you think I'm going to flake out on you?
VANESSA: No, no, I don't think that, Juno. It's just that, we went through a situation before where it didn't work out. Cold feet.
MARK: Cold feet.
JUNO: You should have gone to China. I heard they give away babies like free iPods. They shoot 'em out of those T-shirt guns at sports events.
VANESSA: ( abruptly ) Right. Well, Juno, your parents must be wondering where you are. You might want to head home.
JUNO: Naah. I'm already pregnant, so they figure nothing worse could happen to me. I gotta bounce anyway. It was nice seeing you guys again.
MARK: ( to Juno ) Hey, don't forget your bag.
BREN: Where the hell have you been, Junebug?
JUNO: I drove to St. Cloud to show Mark and Vanessa the ultrasound. And I wound up staying for a couple of A couple of hours? Why are you going up there in the first place?
BREN: A couple of hours? Why are you going up there in the first place?
JUNO: They said they wanted to know about this stuff. They said to keep them updated, so I did!
BREN: You could have sent it to them. Why would you drive an hour out to East Jesus, Nowhere?
JUNO: I don't know, I just did. And while we were waiting for Vanessa, Mark and I watched The Wizard of Gore and he burned me some CDs of weird music. He's kind of cool.
BREN: That was a mistake, Juno. Mark is a married stranger. You overstepped a Listen, Bren-duhhh, I think you're the one overstepping boundaries. You're acting like you're the one who has to go through this and get huge and push a baby out of your vag for someone else. Besides, who cares if he's married? I can have friends who are married.
JUNO: Listen, Bren-duhhh, I think you're the one overstepping boundaries. You're acting like you're the one who has to go through this and get huge and push a baby out of your vag for someone else. Besides, who cares if he's married? I can have friends who are married.
BREN: It doesn't work that way, kiddo. You don't know squat about the dynamics of marriage.
JUNO: You don't know anything about me!
BREN: I know enough.
JUNO: ( gesturing to the magazine ) We don't even have a dog!
BREN: Yeah, because you're allergic to their saliva. I've made a lot of sacrifices for you, Juno. And in a couple years you're going to move out and I'm getting Weimaraners.
JUNO: Wow, dream big!
BREN: Oh, go fly a kite.
BLEEKER'S MOM: Hi Juno. What can I do for you?
JUNO: I borrowed Paulie's physics notes in school today. I'm pretty sure he needs them back, or his grade could plummet to an A minus.
BLEEKER'S MOM: Fine. Come in.
JUNO: Hey, don't concentrate so hard, man. I think I smell hair burning.
BLEEKER'S MOM: Ten minutes.
BLEEKER: What's up?
JUNO: I just wanted to come over. You know, say hi. I miss hanging out with you on school nights.
BLEEKER: I miss it too.
BLEEKER: So, it looks like you're getting pregnant-er these days.
JUNO: Yeah. Um, I hooked up a whole private adoption thing. These married people in Saint Cloud are going to be the
BLEEKER: Really? What are they like?
JUNO: The guy is super cool! His name is Mark and he's into old horror movies and he plays guitar. I actually hung out with him today.
BLEEKER: Is that normal?
JUNO: I asked my dad and Bren not to narc us out to your folks, so we should be safe.
BLEEKER: Oh. That's a relief.
JUNO: I'm going to really start looking like a dork soon. Will you still think I'm cute if I'm huge?
BLEEKER: I always think you're cute. I think you're beautiful.
JUNO: Jesus, Bleek.
BLEEKER: Well, I do.
BLEEKER: Hey Junebug, when all this is over we should get the band back together Yeah. Sure. Once Tino gets a new drumhead we should be good to go.
JUNO: Yeah. Sure. Once Tino gets a new drumhead we should be good to go.
BLEEKER: We could get back together too.
JUNO: Were we together?
BLEEKER: Well, we were once. You know, that What about Katrina De Voort? You could go out with Katrina De Voort.
JUNO: What about Katrina De Voort? You could go out with Katrina De Voort.
BLEEKER: I don't like Katrina.
JUNO: I totally heard you did.
BLEEKER: I don't. Katrina smells like soup. Her whole house smells of soup.
VANESSA: What do you think? Custard or They're yellow.
MARK: They're yellow.
VANESSA: Well, I wanted to pick something gender-neutral for now. Once we get the baby, God willing, we can create a more decisive palette.
MARK: Why do people think yellow is gender- neutral? I don't know one man with a yellow bedroom.
VANESSA: I think I'm leaning toward Custard in this light. I don't know. I should paint a small area.
MARK: Or you could just wait a couple months. It's not like the baby's going to storm in here any second and demand dessert-colored walls.
VANESSA: What to Expect says that readying the baby's room is an important process for women. It's called Nesting, huh? Are you planning to build the crib out of twigs and You should read the book. I even flagged the "daddy chapters" for I just think it's too early to paint. That's my opinion.
MARK: Nesting, huh? Are you planning to build the crib out of twigs and You should read the book. I even flagged the "daddy chapters" for I just think it's too early to paint. That's my opinion.
VANESSA: You should read the book. I even flagged the "daddy chapters" for I just think it's too early to paint. That's my opinion.
MARK: I just think it's too early to paint. That's my opinion.
VANESSA: And I disagree.
VANESSA: That wall is going to need something. Maybe we could put our first family picture there.
MARK: Can you see it?
VANESSA: Can you see it?
LEAH: Yum. This pretzel tastes like a friggin' donut!
JUNO: Share the love, Tits!
JUNO: ( to eavesdroppers ) She's assaulting me! She's denying me fresh-baked goodness!
JUNO: ( muffled ) Hly shht!
LEAH: Juno drags Leah behind a pillar and peers out from behind it. They're watching a group of well-heeled women and their children shopping en masse. One of the women is pushing a toddler in an ultramodern stroller. And one of the women is VANESSA, looking vaguely detached.
JUNO: ( hushed ) That's her. That's Vanessa Loring.
LEAH: Of the Penny Saver Lorings?
LEAH: No way! She's pretty.
JUNO: You sound shocked or something.
LEAH: I just thought she'd look really old in real life.
WOMAN #1: And I was like, "No offense, sweetie, but nobody looks good in gauchos."
WOMAN #2: Especially not with her build.
JUNO: ( mimicking the women, Peanuts-style )
LEAH: She's gonna steal that kid for her Right, seriously.
JUNO: Right, seriously.
LEAH: Leah stands up. Juno lingers for a moment.
JUNO: I want a huge cookie. And like, a lamb kebob. Simultaneously.
LEAH: God, Spermy. Must you always feed?
VANESSA: Juno tries her best to look enthused.
JUNO: Well hi Vanessa! What brings you to the mall today?
VANESSA: Just, you know, shopping with my You're gay?
LEAH: You're gay?
VANESSA: ( confused ) Please excuse Leah. She's mentally Oh, okay. So. how are you feeling?
JUNO: Please excuse Leah. She's mentally Oh, okay. So. how are you feeling?
VANESSA: Oh, okay. So. how are you feeling?
JUNO: Happy? Oh, you mean like, physically. I'm good. Look, I have a snooze button
VANESSA: That's great.
JUNO: Dude, it's moshing all over.
JUNO: ( explains ) It's kicking.
VANESSA: Um. Juno, can I Can I touch it?
JUNO: Are you kidding? Everyone at school is always grabbing at my belly. I'm like a legend. They call me the Cautionary Whale.
VANESSA: I can't feel anything.
VANESSA: It's not moving for me.
JUNO: Oh, you should try talking to it. They can apparently hear speech in there, even though it sounds all ten thousands leagues under the sea.
VANESSA: Hi. Hi, baby. It's me. My name is Vanessa. I can't wait to meet you.
VANESSA: Can you hear me sweet angel?
VANESSA: Oh my God It moved! I felt it!
JUNO: ( nods ) Wow! It's magical.
VANESSA: Wow! It's magical.
MARK: IF YOU'RE TIRED OF BREAKFAST BUT NOT HUNGRY FOR LUNCH, MICROWAVE YOURSELF A HEALTHY BOWL OF BRUNCH!
MICROWAVE YOURSELF: A HEALTHY BOWL OF BRUNCH!
MARK: ( picks up ) So, I've been spending a lot of time listening to that weird CD you made
JUNO: So, I've been spending a lot of time listening to that weird CD you made
MARK: Oh really? What's the verdict?
JUNO: I sort of like it. I mean, it's cute.
MARK: Well, when you're used to the raw power of Iggy and the Stooges, everything else sounds kind of precious by comparison.
JUNO: Well, when you're used to the raw power of Iggy and the Stooges, everything else sounds kind of precious by comparison.
MARK: I imagine you have a collection of punk chestnuts to prove your point.
JUNO: Consider it your musical education.
MARK: I'm dying to see what you've got to teach me.
JUNO: Okay, stop surfing porn and get back to work. Just wanted to say hi.
MARK: Go learn something.
LEAH: God, you're getting huge. How many months has it been now?
JUNO: Almost eight. You wouldn't believe how weird I look naked.
LEAH: I wish my funbags would get bigger.
JUNO: Trust me, you don't. I actually have to wear a bra now. And I have to rub this nasty cocoa butter stuff all over myself or my skin could get stretched too far and explode.
LEAH: INT. DANCING ELK SCHOOL - CORRIDOR - DAY Juno and Leah are sitting inside an emptied awards case on the wall, eating their lunch. Juno notices that the other kids in the cafeteria can't help but glance her way. Some look derisive, others are amused.
JUNO: God, why is everyone always staring at me?
LEAH: Well, you are kind of. convex.
JUNO: Wow, someone's been actually doing her geometry homework for once!
LEAH: I don't have a choice. Keith's been grading me really hard lately.
JUNO: Please do not refer to Mr. Conyers as "Keith," okay? My barf reflex is already heightened these days.
LEAH: Keith's hot.
JUNO: Eww, he's all beardy!
LEAH: Did you hear Bleek is going to prom with Katrina De Voort?
JUNO: Katrina? Pfft, no way. He doesn't like Katrina. It must be a pity date.
LEAH: ( shrugging ) He asked her. I heard they were going to Benihana, then the prom, then to Vijay's parents' cabin.
JUNO: Bleeker told me Katrina's whole house reeks of soup!
LEAH: Oh, it totally does. I was there for her birthday about four years ago and it was like Lipton Landing. But you know, boys have endured worse things for nookie.
JUNO: There's no way in hell they're having sex or even holding hands.
LEAH: I wouldn't be so sure about that. He did it with you. He's a man now.
JUNO: Yeah, well, Bleek trusted me. We're best friends.
LEAH: Are you jealous? I thought you said you didn't care what he did.
JUNO: I'm not jealous, and I don't care. I just know he doesn't like Katrina and I don't think he should toy with her emotions like that. She seems so nice and all.
LEAH: Okay Juno, I'm really convinced.
JUNO: Prom is for wenises, anyway. Once you're old enough to go, it's not cool anymore.
JUNO: Are you honestly and truly going to prom with Katrina De Voort?
BLEEKER: Um, hi?
JUNO: Leah just told me you were going with her.
BLEEKER: Yeah, I did ask her if she wanted to go. A bunch of us from the team are going to Benihana, then the prom, then Vijay's parents' cabin.
BLEEKER: ( meekly ) We're getting a stretch limo.
JUNO: Your mom must be really glad you're not taking me.
BLEEKER: You're mad. Why are you mad?
JUNO: I'm not mad. I'm in a fucking great mood. Despite the fact that I'm trapped in a fat suit I can't take off, despite the fact that everyone is making fun of me behind my back, despite the fact that your little girlfriend gave me the stinkeye in art class yesterday.
BLEEKER: Katrina's not my girlfriend! And I doubt she was actually giving you the stinkeye. She just looks like that all the time.
JUNO: Whatever. Have fun at the prom with Soupy Sales. I'm sure I can think of something way more cool to do that night. Like I could pumice my feet, or go to Bren's dumb Unitarian church, or get hit by a ten-ton truck full of hot garbage juice. All those things would be exponentially cooler than going to the prom with you.
BLEEKER: You're being really immature.
JUNO: ( turning around )
JUNO: That's not how our thing works! I hurl the accusations and you talk me down, remember?
BLEEKER: Not this time. You don't have any reason to be mad at me. You broke my heart. I should be royally ticked at you, man. I should be really cheesed off. I shouldn't want to talk to you Why? Because I got bored and had sex with you one day, and then I didn't, like, marry you?
JUNO: Why? Because I got bored and had sex with you one day, and then I didn't, like, marry you?
BLEEKER: Like I'd marry you! You would be the meanest wife of all time. And anyway, I know you weren't bored that day because there was a lot of stuff on TV. The Blair Witch Project was on Starz, and you were like, "Oh, I want to watch this, but we should make out instead. La la la."
JUNO: Forget it, Bleek. Take Katrina the Douche Packer to the prom. I'm sure you guys will have a really bitchin' Yeah, well. I still have your I still have your virginity!
BLEEKER: ( searching for a comeback ) Yeah, well. I still have your I still have your virginity!
JUNO: I still have your virginity!
BLEEKER: ( looking around, panicked ) Oh my God, SHUT UP!
JUNO: What? Are you ashamed that we did Well at least you don't have to walk around with the evidence under your sweater. I'm a planet!
BLEEKER: Well at least you don't have to walk around with the evidence under your sweater. I'm a planet!
JUNO: Well at least you don't have to walk around with the evidence under your sweater. I'm a planet!
BLEEKER: Wait, let me take that.
JUNO: You shouldn't be carrying that heavy bag. I'll take it.
BLEEKER: You shouldn't be carrying that heavy bag. I'll take it.
JUNO: Oh. It's fine. What's another ten
MARK: Wow. That shirt is working hard.
JUNO: ( furtive ) Is Vanessa here?
MARK: Nope. We're safe.
JUNO: Come on, I have something for you.
MARK: Come on, I have something for you.
JUNO: Oh, Mark! Is this the baby's room? It's beautiful!
MARK: Hilarious. No, I just keep all of my old comics down here, and I want to show you one of them.
JUNO: Oh God, you're one of those guys.
MARK: You're gonna like this, I promise.
MARK: ( extracting a bagged COMIC from the box ) Here it is. "Most Fruitful Yuki"? What is. Oh my god, she's a pregnant superhero!
JUNO: "Most Fruitful Yuki"? What is. Oh my god, she's a pregnant superhero!
MARK: Isn't that great? I got it when I was in Japan with my band. She reminds me of you. Wow, I actually feel like less of a fat dork now.
JUNO: Wow, I actually feel like less of a fat dork now.
MARK: Most Fruitful Yuki is bad ass, man. You should be proud to be the same
JUNO: Okay, how about some tunes?
JUNO: Now this first one is kinda slow. But it's Mott the Hoople so it's still totally rad and hardcore.
JUNO: I actually know this one.
MARK: I actually know this one.
JUNO: You do?
MARK: Yeah, this song's older than me, if you can believe that. I danced to it at my senior prom.
JUNO: That's almost interesting, Mark. Who did you dance with?
MARK: Her name was Cynthia Vogel and she was a good dance partner. Even let me put my hands on her butt.
JUNO: Oh man, I can just picture you slow dancing like a dork!
MARK: No, I put my hands on your waist. Then you put your arms around my neck. That's how we did it in '88.
JUNO: Oh, okay. Like this.
MARK: You've never been to a dance, have Only squares and nerds go to dances.
JUNO: ( casually defensive ) Only squares and nerds go to dances.
MARK: What are you?
JUNO: I don't know. I feel like there's something between
MARK: I feel like there's something between
MARK: I'm leaving Vanessa.
JUNO: ( quiet at first ) It's just not working out, but I'm getting my own place in the city. and I've got it all planned out. It's something I've wanted to do for a long time.
MARK: It's just not working out, but I'm getting my own place in the city. and I've got it all planned out. It's something I've wanted to do for a long time.
JUNO: ( growing ) No. No, you definitely cannot do that, Mark. That's a big, fat sack of no!
MARK: No. No, you definitely cannot do that, Mark. That's a big, fat sack of no!
JUNO: No. No, you definitely cannot do that, Mark. That's a big, fat sack of no!
MARK: What's the matter?
JUNO: This isn't what we agreed on. You guys have to take care of. this! You are the chosen custodians of the big-ass bump!
MARK: But I thought you'd be cool if.
JUNO: ( interrupting ) I want you guys to adopt the Buglet. I wanted everything to be perfect. Not shitty and broken like everyone else's family. Listen, once I have the baby, Vanessa is going to finally be happy, and everything will be all right. Believe me on this one!
MARK: A baby is not going to fix everything. Besides, I don't know if I'm ready to be a father.
JUNO: ( aghast ) But you're old!
MARK: I. How do you think of me, Juno? Why are you here?
JUNO: I don't know. I just liked being your friend. I sort of liked becoming furniture in your weird life.
MARK: ( he gestures to the dank surrounding room ) .this is what my life has become. Stuff in boxes. Stuff underground. Is that so appealing to you?
JUNO: Yeah, I guess. Is this my fault? Is Vanessa mad at you because of me?
MARK: That's not the point. We're just not in love anymore.
JUNO: Yeah, but didn't you love Vanessa when you married her? If you love someone once, you can love them again, I know it. My friend Leah has gone out with the same guy, like, four times. You're just not trying.
MARK: I'm such an idiot. I can't believe what an idiot I am.
JUNO: Please don't get a divorce! God, Mark, just do me a solid and stay with your wife.
MARK: God, you're so young.
JUNO: Not really. I'm sixteen. I'm old enough to tell when people are acting like total a-holes! Oh and by the way, I bought another Sonic Youth album and it's the worst thing I've ever heard! It's just noise, man!
JUNO: Oh and by the way, I bought another Sonic Youth album and it's the worst thing I've ever heard! It's just noise, man!
VANESSA: Juno? What's going on?
JUNO: It's obvious from Juno's tears and flushed face that she's lying. Vanessa instantly goes pale with fear, but she tries her hardest to seem serene and "together" in front of Juno.
VANESSA: ( pretending to be calm ) Mark? Why is Juno crying?
JUNO: I'm not crying. I'm allergic to fine home furnishings. See you later.
VANESSA: Hold on.
VANESSA: Juno, what's the matter?
MARK: She's hormonal. Right, June? It's just part of the whole process.
VANESSA: What did you do?
MARK: I didn't do anything. I just. I've just been thinking.
VANESSA: ( you've been thinking? ) Just thinking if this is really the right thing for us.
MARK: Just thinking if this is really the right thing for us.
VANESSA: What are you referring to?
MARK: I've been just wondering if we're, you know, ready.
VANESSA: Of course we're ready. We've taken all the classes. The nursery. The I know we're prepared. I just don't know if. I'm ready.
MARK: I know we're prepared. I just don't know if. I'm ready.
VANESSA: ( to Juno ) Juno, don't worry about this. He just has cold feet. That's how boys are. The books all say the same thing. A woman becomes a mother when she gets pregnant. A man becomes a father when he sees his baby. He's going to get there. He'll get there.
VANESSA: ( to Mark ) Why don't we let Juno go home and we can discuss this later on, okay?
MARK: It all just happened so fast. We put that ad in the paper. I thought it would take months if, you know, ever and then boom Two weeks later, she's in our living room.
VANESSA: ( quietly ) She answered our prayers.
MARK: ( ignores the comment ) Ever since, it's just been like a ticking clock.
VANESSA: What are you saying?
MARK: It just feels a little like bad
VANESSA: What would be a good time for you?
MARK: I don't know. There's just things I still want to do.
VANESSA: Like what? Be a rock star?
MARK: Don't mock me.
VANESSA: You're trying to do something that's never going to happen. And you know what? Your shirt is stupid. Grow up. If I have to wait for you to become Kurt Cobain, I'm never going to be a
MARK: I never said I'd be a great father.
MARK: I called Gerta Rauss. She says she can represent both of us. They call it "collaborative divorce." It's apparently all the rage right now. And it's easy because we don't have No, it's fine. Thanks for making the call, I guess.
VANESSA: No, it's fine. Thanks for making the call, I guess.
VANESSA: We're actually, finally doing this?
MARK: Looks like it, yeah.
VANESSA: Have you found a place to stay?
MARK: Yeah, downtown.
VANESSA: A hotel?
MARK: It's a loft.
VANESSA: ( lightly teasing ) Aren't you the cool guy?
VANESSA: I wanted a baby so bad. So bad.
MARK: I know you did.
MARK: It looks like a bill from Jiffy-Lube.
VANESSA: It's for me.
JUNO: Hi Dad.
MAC: Hey, big puffy version of Junebug. Where have you been?
JUNO: Dealing with stuff way beyond my maturity level. Where is everyone?
MAC: Bren took Liberty Bell to her tot ice skating class.
JUNO: Tot ice skating? Tots can't ice skate. Liberty Bell's still getting the hang of stairs.
MAC: No, but you know Bren. She dreams Yeah, she does.
JUNO: Yeah, she does.
MAC: You look a little morose, honey. What's eating you?
JUNO: I'm losing my faith in humanity.
MAC: Think you can narrow it down for me.
JUNO: I guess I wonder sometimes if people ever stay together for good.
MAC: You mean like couples?
JUNO: Yeah, like people in love.
MAC: Are you having boy trouble? I gotta be honest; I don't much approve of you dating in your condition, 'cause. well, that's kind of messed Dad, no!
JUNO: Dad, no!
MAC: Well, it's kind of skanky. Isn't that what you girls call it? Skanky? Please stop now.
JUNO: Please stop now.
MAC: ( persisting ) Tore up from the floor up?
JUNO: Dad, it's not about that. I just need to know that it's possible for two people to stay happy together forever. Or at least for a few years.
MAC: It's not easy, that's for sure. Now, I may not have the best track record in the world, but I have been with your stepmother for ten years now, and I'm proud to say that we're very
MAC: In my opinion, the best thing you can do is to find a person who loves you for exactly what you are. Good mood, bad mood, ugly, pretty, handsome, what have you, the right person will still think that the sun shines out your ass. That's the kind of person that's worth sticking with.
JUNO: I sort of already have.
MAC: Well, of course. Your old D-A-D! You know I'll always be there to love and support you, no matter what kind of pickle you're in.
MAC: Juno laughs and hugs her father, planting a smooch on his She salutes and dashes out of the kitchen.
JUNO: I need to go out somewhere for just a little while. I don't have any homework, and I swear I'll be back by ten.
MAC: You were talking about me, right?
BLEEKER: Did you put like a hundred things of Tic Tacs in my mailbox?
JUNO: Yeah. That was me.
BLEEKER: ( blushes ) Because they're your fave. And you can never have too much of your favorite one-calorie breath mint.
JUNO: ( blushes ) Because they're your fave. And you can never have too much of your favorite one-calorie breath mint.
BLEEKER: Well. thanks. I think I'm pretty much set until college on the Tic Tac front.
JUNO: You know, I've been thinking. I'm really sorry I was such a huge bitch to you. You didn't deserve that. You never deserve any of the poo I unload on you.
BLEEKER: You know it's okay.
JUNO: Also, I think I'm in love with you.
BLEEKER: What, you mean as friends?
JUNO: No, for real. I think you are the coolest person I've ever met. And you don't even have to try.
BLEEKER: I try really hard, actually.
JUNO: No, you're naturally smart. You always think of the funniest things to do. Remember when you passed me that postcard during Spanish class, and it was addressed like, "Junebug MacGuff, Row 4, Third Seat From the Blackboard"? And it said, "I'm having fun in Barcelona wish you were here"? That was hilarious.
BLEEKER: I was just bored. I only think school is awesome like, 80% of the time.
JUNO: Plus, you're the only person who doesn't stare at my stomach all the fucking time. You actually look at my face. And every time I look at you, the baby starts kicking me super It does?
BLEEKER: It does?
BLEEKER: I think it's because my heart starts pounding when I see you.
JUNO: I think it's because my heart starts pounding when I see you.
BLEEKER: Mine too.
JUNO: Basically, I'm completely smitten with you, and I don't care if I'm making an ass out of myself right now, because you've seen me make an ass out of myself a million times, and you still want to be my friend.
BLEEKER: Well, yeah. You're the best friend I've ever had, even when you're being kind of evil.
JUNO: That's all I need from you. That's more than I could ever ask for. You're just golden, dude.
BLEEKER: Can we make out now?
JUNO: Bleeker and Juno KISS, oblivious to the gawking track team guys in the background. In the distance, near the school entrance, we see STEVE RENDAZO ( the kid who always TORMENTS Juno ) regarding the makeout session with a sad, envious expression. LEAH passes by, does a double take, then hurries up to the fence, rolling her eyes.
LEAH: ( disgusted ) You know, you can go into early labor sucking face like that!
JUNO: INTERCUT WITH: INT. MACGUFF HOUSE - MAC'S WORK DESK - SAME Mac looks up from the lure he's working on.
JUNO: Either I just pissed my pants or.
JUNO: Thundercats are go!
JUNO: ( panicked ) Ow, ow, fuckity-ow. Bren, when do I get that Spinal Tap thing?
BREN: It's called a spinal block, and you can't have it yet, honey. The doctor said you're not dilated enough.
JUNO: You mean I have to wait for it to get even worse? Why can't they just give it to me now?
BREN: Well, honey, doctors are sadists who like to play God and watch lesser people scream.
BREN: ( checking her watch ) ( To the doctor ) Hey, can we give my kid the damn spinal tap already?
VIJAY: ( admiringly ) His legs are as swift as his seed.
MRS. BLEEKER: What did you say?
ANNOUNCER: P. Bleeker has just broken a district record in the 400.
NURSE: Would you like to meet your son?
VANESSA: I have a son?
NURSE: ( amused ) You are the adoptive mother?
VANESSA: I have a son.
NURSE: Healthy kid, too. Didn't waste any time getting out.
VANESSA: How do I look?
BREN: ( gently ) Like a mom. Scared shitless.
MAC: Someday, you'll be back here, honey. On your terms.
JUNO: Bleeker nods. Juno begins strumming her guitar and playing "Anyone Else But You," by the Moldy Peaches. Bleeker joins in. At first their playing is discordant, but suddenly it works.
BLEEKER: You're a part time lover and a fulltime friend. The monkey on your back is the latest trend. I don't see what anyone can see, in anyone else but you.
JUNO: Here is the church and here is the steeple. We sure are cute for two ugly people. I don't see what anyone can see, in anyone else but you.
BLEEKER: We both have shiny happy fits of rage. You want more fans, I want more stage. I don't see what anyone can see, in anyone else but you.
JUNO: You are always trying to keep it real. I'm in love with how you feel. I don't see what anyone can see, in anyone else but you.
BLEEKER: I kiss you on the brain in the shadow of a train. I kiss you all starryeyed, my body's swinging from side to side. I don't see what anyone can see, in anyone else but you.
JUNO: The pebbles forgive me, the trees forgive me. So why can't you forgive me? I don't see what anyone can see, in anyone else but you.
THE END: Writers : Diablo Cody
