JURASSIC PARK: Screenplay by
ISLA SORNA: 87 miles southeast of Nublar Two SHIP HANDS, dressed in white uniforms, have set up a picnic table with three chairs on the sand and are carefully laying out luncheon service fine china, silver, crystal decanters with red and white wine. PAUL BOWMAN, fortyish, sits in a chair off to the side, reading. MRS. BOWMAN, painfully thin, with the perpetually surprised look of a woman who's had her eyes done more than once, supervises the settings of the table. She looks up and sees a little girl, CATHY, seven or eight years old, wandering off down the beach.
MRS. BOWMAN: Cathy! Don't wander off! Cathy keeps wandering. Cathy, come back! You can look for shells right here! Cathy gestures, pretending she can't hear.
BOWMAN: ( eyes still in his book ) Leave her alone.
MRS. BOWMAN: What about snakes?
BOWMAN: There's no snakes on a beach. Let her have fun, for once.
CATHY: Please be quiet, please be quiet please be quiet. Rounding a curve in the beach, her parents disappear from view behind her. A RUSTLING sound draws her attention, and she turns, toward where the thick jungle foliage gives way to the A large bush, maybe twelve feet tall, is moving, its branches swaying and shaking. Curious, Cathy walks up to the bush, which abruptly stops moving. A small, lizard-like animal, dark green with brown stripes along its back, steps out from the bush. Only about a foot tall, it stands on its hind legs, balancing on its thick tail. It walks upright, bobbing its head like a chicken.
CATHY: Well, hello there! The animal ( a COMPSOGNATHUS ) just stares at her. Cathy squats down on her haunches. What are you? A little bird or She opens her hand. She's got a handful of goldfish crackers. Are you hungry? You want a goldfish? The compy bobs forward a few steps, cautiously. Come on. I won't hurt you. The compy draws closer. Cathy holds the cracker in the palm of her hand. The compy gets closer still and hops numbly up onto Cathy's palm. Her arm dips a bit under the weight, but it's not that heavy, and she holds it up easily. It bobs its head, scarfs up the goldfish, and eats Enchanted, Cathy breaks into an enormous grin and returns her hand, calling back over her shoulder. Mom! Dad! You gotta come see this! I found something! She turns back. Thirty more compys have come out onto the sand. They're standing there, bobbing anxiously, staring at her from a few feet away. Cathy's smile fades. She turns her head slowly to the right. TWENTY MORE COMPYS have come in from that side, forming a semi-circle, bobbing and CHIPPING as they surround her. What do you guys want?
MRS. BOWMAN: Cathy, sweetheart! Lunch is ready! From around the curve of the beach, a flock of birds bolts from the jungle trees as Cathy's shrill SCREAMS suddenly pierce the air.
MRS. BOWMAN: She takes off, running down the beach, Mr. Bowman leaps out of his chair and follows, and all available deck hands race off to help, kicking up geysers of sand behind them.
PAUL!: She takes off, running down the beach, Mr. Bowman leaps out of his chair and follows, and all available deck hands race off to help, kicking up geysers of sand behind them.
CHAIRMAN: Thank you, John. Mr. Ludlow? He turns to PETER LUDLOW, late thirties, a man with the anxious look of someone who insists the buck stop on his desk. Ludlow flips open a file, pulls out a stack of black and white eight by tens, and tosses them on the table.
LUDLOW: ( an accent similar to These pictures were taken in a hospital in Costa Rica forty-eight hours ago, after an American family on a yacht cruise stumbled onto Site B. The little girl will be fine, but her parents are wealthy, angry, and very fond of lawsuits. But that's hardly new to us, is it? ( takes a paper from the Wrongful death settlements, partial list: family of Donald Gennaro, 36.5 million dollars; family of Robert Muldoon, 12.6 million. Damaged or destroyed equipment, 17.3 million. Demolition, de-construction, and disposal of Isla Nublar facilities, organic and inorganic, one hundred and twenty-six million dollars. The list goes on, gentlemen research funding, media payoffs. Silence is He's warming up. Not a bad performer. This corporation has been bleeding from the throat for four years. You, our board of directors, have set patiently and listened to ecology lectures while Mr. Hammond signed your checks and spent your money. You have watched your stock drop from seventy-eight and a quarter to nineteen flat with no good and in sight. And all along, we have held a significant product asset that we could have safely harvested and displayed for profit. Enormous He reaches out to a model on the table and gives it a shove, sending it sliding down the length of the table in front of them. It's a mini-mall version of a zoo. Cages hold tiny replicas of various kinds of dinosaurs while Boy Scout troops and Tourists look on in wonder. Enough money to wipe out four years of lawsuits and damage control and unpleasant infighting, enough to not only send our stock back to where it was but to double it. And the one thing, the only thing standing between us and this asset is a born-again naturalist who happens to be our own CEO. Well, I don't work for Mother Nature. I work for you. Two of his Backbenchers distribute documents from a stack. Ludlow takes one and reads from it. "Whereas the Chief Executive Officer has engaged in wasteful and negligent business practices to further his own personal environmental beliefs Whereas these practices have affected the financial performance of the company by incurring significant losses Whereas the shareholders have been materially harmed by these losses Thereby, be it resolved that John Parker Hammond should be resolved from the office of Chief Executive Officer, affective immediately." Mr. Chairman, I move the resolution be put to an immediate vote. Do I have a second?
BOARD MEMBER: I second the motion, Mr. Chairman, Please poll the members by a show of The CHAIRMAN signs heavily, feeling like a traitor. He can't bear to look at Hammond on the TV monitor.
CHAIRMAN: All those in favor of InGen Corporate Resolution 213C, please signify your approval by raising your right hand. It starts slowly, guiltily, but every hand in the room goes up. Ludlow sits back, victorious. Hammond, furious, raises his right hand, which holds a remote control, and points it at the TV screen. It goes blank.
DIETER: He takes a deep drag while someone talks on the other end. He smiles and blows out a cloud of smoke.
MALCOLM: ( under his breath ) The Curious Man sits down next to Malcolm, grinning.
MAN: You're him, aren't you?
MALCOLM: Excuse me?
MAN: The guy. The scientist. I saw you on TV. I believed you. No response from Malcolm. The guy leans in even closer. I was misquoted. I was merely speculating on the evolutionary scenario of a Lost World. I never said I was in any such place. He gets up and moves to another seat on the car, away from the Curious Man. As he sits down, he notices two other COMMUTERS across from him are staring at him. He looks at them. They looks away. He pulls the collar of his coat up tight around him. Nowhere to hide.
MALCOLM: ( a withering look ) I was misquoted. I was merely speculating on the evolutionary scenario of a Lost World. I never said I was in any such place. He gets up and moves to another seat on the car, away from the Curious Man. As he sits down, he notices two other COMMUTERS across from him are staring at him. He looks at them. They looks away. He pulls the collar of his coat up tight around him. Nowhere to hide.
BUTLER: Whom shall I tell Mr. Hammond is MALCOLM stands in the foyer of an expensively decorated Park Avenue apartment.
MALCOLM: Ian Malcolm A door opens and a little dog comes YAPPING out of the back. It bounds straight at Malcolm, GROWLING, jaws SNAPPING. It and Malcolm BATS it away with one swift swing of his cane. The dog rolls across the floor and slinks away, WHINING. The Butler looks at Malcolm disapprovingly.
BUTLER: Not an animal lover?
MALCOLM: Not really.
HAMMOND: Ian! Don't linger in the doorway like an ingenue, come in, come in! Malcolm steps further into the room. It's good to see you. It really is. How's the leg?
MALCOLM: When you have a lot of time to think, it's funny who you remember. It's the people who challenged you. It is the quality of our opponents that gives our accomplishments meaning. I never told you how sorry I was about what happened after we returned.
HAMMOND: When you have a lot of time to think, it's funny who you remember. It's the people who challenged you. It is the quality of our opponents that gives our accomplishments meaning. I never told you how sorry I was about what happened after we returned.
MALCOLM: I didn't know you weren't well.
HAMMOND: It's the lawyers. The lawyers are finally killing me.
MALCOLM: They do have motives. Why did you want to see me? Your message said it was urgent.
HAMMOND: You were right and I was wrong. There! Did you ever think you'd hear me say that? Spectacularly wrong. Instead of observing those animals, I tried to control them. I squandered an opportunity and we still know next to nothing about their lives. Not their lives as man would have them, behind electric fences, but in the wild. Behavior in their natural habitat, the impossible dream of any paleontologist. I could have had it, but I let it slip away. Thank God for Site B.
MALCOLM: ( a spark in his eye ) Well? Didn't it all seem a trifle compact to you?
HAMMOND: ( a spark in his eye ) Well? Didn't it all seem a trifle compact to you?
MALCOLM: What are you talking about?
HAMMOND: The hatchery, in particular? You know my initial yields had to be low, far less than one percent, that's a thousand embryos for every single live birth. Genetic engineering on that scale implies a giant operation, not the spotless little laboratory I showed you.
MALCOLM: I don't believe you.
HAMMOND: Isla Nublar was just a showroom, Ian, something for the tourists, Site B was the factory floor. We built it first, on Isla Sorna, eight-some miles from Nublar.
MALCOLM: No, no, no, no, no, no . . .
HAMMOND: After the accident at the park, a hurricane wiped out our facility on Site B. We had to evacuate and leave the animals to fend for themselves. And they did. For four years I've fought to keep them safe from human meddling, now I want you to go there and document them.
MALCOLM: Are you out of your mind? I still have nightmares, my reputation's a joke, my leg is shot you think I need more of that?
HAMMOND: It would be the most extraordinary living fossil record the world has ever seen.
MALCOLM: So what? Hammonnd picks up a thick file folder from the night table near to him and open it on his lap. Inside, there are memos, charts, maps and photographs.
HAMMOND: I've been putting this together for over a year.
MALCOLM: John . . .
HAMMOND: You'll need an animal behaviorist, someone with unimpeachable credentials. I believe you already know Sarah Harding. She's got theories about parenting and nurturing among hunter/scavengers I bet she'd be dying to prove on a scale like this. If you convince her to go, it'll be a major coup. When she publishes, the scientific community must take it seriously. Malcolm just shakes his head, flipping through the file sadly.
HAMMOND: Your documentation, you should use forensic photographic methods, Hasselbladt still cameras, high definition video. When the trick photography analysts take your evidence apart, make it impossible for them to say there was enhancement or computer graphic imaging. Oh, this is very important avoid the island interior at all costs. Stick to the outer rim. Everything you need to know can be found there. Vindication lies on the outer rim. Malcolm gently closes the file and pushes it back to Hammond.
MALCOLM: I'm not going, John.
HAMMOND: ( fatigue returning ) Ian, you are my last chance to give something of real value to the world. I can't walk so far and leave no footprints; die and leave nothing with my name on it. I will not be known only for my failures. And you will not allow yourself to go down in history as a lunatic. You're too smart. You'e too proud. Dr. Malcolm. Please. This is a chance at redemption. For both of us. There's no time to equivocate, we must seize it now, before He stops, staring over Malcom's shoulder. Malcom turns. PETER LUDLOW, still in his overcoat, is standing in the doorway to the bedroom. He looks back and forth from Hammond to Malcolm suspiciously.
LUDLOW: Hello, Uncle John. Dr. Malcolm. Malcolm doesn't answer. He seems to know Ludlow, and dislikes Did I interrupt something? Malcolm turns back to Hammond.
MALCOLM: Find someone else.
LUDLOW: So, you two were just, uh, telling old campfire stories, were you?
MALCOLM: Do me a favor. Don't pretend for a second that you and I don't know the truth. You can convince Time magazine and the Skeptical Inquirer of whatever you want, but I was You signed a non-disclosure agreement before you went to the island that expressly forbade you from discussing anything you saw. You violated that You cost me my livelihood. That on which I relied to support my If your university felt you were causing it embarrassment by selling wild stories to Hard Copy, I hardly see how I am to
LUDLOW: You signed a non-disclosure agreement before you went to the island that expressly forbade you from discussing anything you saw. You violated that You cost me my livelihood. That on which I relied to support my If your university felt you were causing it embarrassment by selling wild stories to Hard Copy, I hardly see how I am to
MALCOLM: You cost me my livelihood. That on which I relied to support my If your university felt you were causing it embarrassment by selling wild stories to Hard Copy, I hardly see how I am to
LUDLOW: If your university felt you were causing it embarrassment by selling wild stories to Hard Copy, I hardly see how I am to
MALCOLM: I didn't tell anything, I told the You version of it.
LUDLOW: You version of it.
MALCOLM: There are no versions of the truth! This isn't a corporate maneuver, it's my life.
LUDLOW: We made a generous compensatory offer for your injuries.
MALCOLM: It was a payoff and an insult. InGen InGen is my livelihood, Dr. Malcolm, and I will jealously defend its interests. People will know what I want them to know when I want them to know it. Ludlow tosses something to Malcolm, hard. It sails across the foyer, upright, and Malcolm reaches out and catches it with one hand. It's his cane. Don't forget that. Malcolm stares at him for a long moment. Finally, he turns and walks away. But he does not out of the apartment. Instead, he walks directly past Ludlow, crosses the living room, and steps back into Hammond's bedroom, closing the door behind him with a determined CLICK.
LUDLOW: InGen is my livelihood, Dr. Malcolm, and I will jealously defend its interests. People will know what I want them to know when I want them to know it. Ludlow tosses something to Malcolm, hard. It sails across the foyer, upright, and Malcolm reaches out and catches it with one hand. It's his cane. Don't forget that. Malcolm stares at him for a long moment. Finally, he turns and walks away. But he does not out of the apartment. Instead, he walks directly past Ludlow, crosses the living room, and steps back into Hammond's bedroom, closing the door behind him with a determined CLICK.
MALCOLM: Do you have a satellite phone?
ROLAND: He turns around. AJAY ( AH-jay ) SIDHU, a wiry East Indian in his late forties, is standing behind him, caught trying to sneak up.
AJAY: ( delighted ) How did you know?
ROLAND: ( taps his nose ) That cheap aftershave I send you every Christmas, you actually wear it. I'm touched. Sit down, sit down, what brings you to Mombassa?
AJAY: You. Tell me, Roland, when was the last time you answered your phone?
ROLAND: Last time I plugged it in, I suppose. Behind them, the group of TOURISTS, all men, laughs loudly. One of them, the MOST OBNOXIOUS TOURISTS, berates the WAITRESS.
AJAY: I got a call from a gentleman who's going to Costa Rica, or thereabouts. If he's to be believed, it's a most, uh, unique expedition. And very Well, I'm a very well-funded old son of a bitch. You go. The Most Obnoxious Tourist bellows for the Waitress. His buddies LAUGHS. Roland throws a glance, annoyed.
ROLAND: Well, I'm a very well-funded old son of a bitch. You go. The Most Obnoxious Tourist bellows for the Waitress. His buddies LAUGHS. Roland throws a glance, annoyed.
AJAY: But alone? We always had great success together, you and I.
ROLAND: Just a little bit too much, I How do you mean?
AJAY: How do you mean?
ROLAND: A true hunter doesn't mind if the animal wins. If it escapes. But there weren't enough escapes from you and me, Ajay. I've decided to spend a bit less time in the company of death. Maybe I just feel too close to it my The Waitress comes to the Tourists' table and the Most Obnoxious Tourist actually paws her ass. Roland is out of his chair in a second. Excuse me. Romand walks over to the Tourists' table, says something to the Waitress in the local dialect, and she walks away, behind him. He stares down at the Most Obnoxious Tourist. You, sir are no gentleman.
TOURIST: Is that supposed to be an insult?
ROLAND: I can think of none greater. The Tourist looks at his Buddies and laughs.
TOURIST: Buzz off, you silly old bastard.
ROLAND: What do I have to do to pick a fight with you, bring your mother into it?
TOURIST: Are you kidding? I could take you with one arm tied down.
ROLAND: IN THE MIDDLE OF THE FLOOR, the Waiter finishes tying a man's wrist to his belt in the back of his pants with a napkin. He pulls the knot tight and the man turns around. It's Roland, with his arm tied down. The Tourist stands across from him.
TOURIST: I mean my arm. POW! Roland punches him square in the jaw. The Tourist reels, stunned. Enraged, he lunges at Roland, swinging with both arms. Roland bobs, neatly ducking the punches, waits for the Tourist to turn around, and POPS him thrice in the face. The Tourist spins and goes down to the floor, face first. A cloud of sawdust and a loud CHEER from the locals rise up in the bar.
ROLAND: Sorry. We were saying?
AJAY: You broke that idiot's jaw for no reason other than your boredom. Tell the truth, Roland. Aren't you even interested in knowing this expedition's quarry?
ROLAND: Ajay. Go on up to my ranch, take a look around the trophy room, and tell me what kind of quarry you think could possibly be of any interest to me. Ajay just smiles.
SARAH: Hyenas. Ace Face is the striped Sarah is thirty, with a compact, athletic body built for the outdoors. She loos through the goggles again, sweeping ahead of the hyenas to their prey. It's a herd of African buffalo, standing belly-deep in the grass, agitated, bellowing and stamping their feet. Sarah turns to MAKENA, her African assistant. They'll try to take down a calf. Come on.
MAKENA: Sarah scurries up and over a rock face. Makena follows. Closer now, they watch as the hyenas rush the herd, running through it, trying to break it up.
SARAH: No way.
MAKENA: But the view would
SARAH: No cliffs. F1 headed sough, F2 and F5 flanking, twenty yards. F3 center. F6 circling wide east. Can't see F7. While she talks, breathless, fascinated by the drama before her, Sarah continues to creep closer and closer to the action. Makena follows, with growing unease.
MAKENA: F8 circling north. F1 straight through, disrupting. Herd moving, stamping. There's F7. Straight through. F8 angling through from the She's practically on top of the animals now.
SARAH: F8 circling north. F1 straight through, disrupting. Herd moving, stamping. There's F7. Straight through. F8 angling through from the She's practically on top of the animals now.
MAKENA: Dr. Harding. Makena has a hold of Sarah's sweatshirt and is tugging her back, at least trying to slow down her progress as Sarah, wide-eyed with fascination, creeps even closer. Suddenly there is a tremendous BELLOWING and the grass right in front of them rips apart, trampled under the feet of the hyenas as they cluster around a fallen buffalo calf. They yelp and jump, their muzzles bloody. The adults move aside, making room as the hyena pups come forward, squealing to get at the kill. Sarah's eyes shine with excitement and she moves even closer, whispering into the tape recorder.
SARAH: Brooding behavior in evidence at the kill site, pups are ushered forward and adults help them eat, pulling flesh away from the carcass and A telephone rings. Sarah stops in mid-sentence, unsure if she heard what she thought she heard. It rings again, the unmistakable CHIRPING of a cellular phone. Sarah and Makena both move at once, pawing at a backpack. I thought you turned it off! Two hyenas look inquisitively in the direction of the phone. Sarah comes up with it and jabs at a button in irritation. Someone speaks on the other end. Sarah rolls her eyes. Ian. This better be important. Sarah doesn't say anything for a long moment, just listens as the voice on the other end talks. And talks. INT. MOBILE FIELD SYSTEMS - DAY Ian Malcolm's leg, badly scarred, is bared and draped over the end of a bench. Two sandbags are fastened to his ankle and MALCOLM is lifting them, painfully rehabbing his injury while talking on a satellite phone.
MALCOLM: We leave in twenty-four hours. Five member team. Behind them, the SPARKS of a acetylene torch fly as WORKMEN make modifications on several vehicles, including a dark-green Mercedes Benz AAV ( all-activity vehicle ). The hood of the AAV is up and the V-6 engine has been pulled out; a new, smaller engine is lowered in its place. To one side are two long trailers, connected by an accordion-like passageway, like on a subway car, allowing one to be towed behind the other.
MALCOLM: Eddie Carr's handling all our equipment and he'll be there to maintain it. He's designing special field trailers now, top of the line mobile research units. EDDIE CARR, fortyish, is barking out orders to the Workmen.
EDDIE: No, no, look at the plans, Henry, you can't place that strut laterally, it has to be crosswise, LOOK AT THE
PLANS!: From the ceiling, a large metal age CRASHES down, landing next to them on the floor with a deafening CLANG. They leap back and look up. A WORKMAN waves from a scaffolding.
WORKMAN: Sorry, Eddie! Specs say it can't deform at 12,000 PSI, we had to test Eddie bends down to inspect the cage, which is rectangular, constructed of inch-thick titanium-alloy bars. Malcolm hangs up the phone and walks up, joining him.
MALCOLM: Any damage?
EDDIE: "Minimal" is too much. It has to be light, it has to be strong
MALCOLM: "Minimal" is too much. It has to be light, it has to be strong
EDDIE: Light and strong, light and strong, sure, why not, it's only impossible. God save me from academics.
MALCOLM: You are an academic.
EDDIE: Former academic. Now I actually make things. I don't just talk.
MALCOLM: You think I'm all talk, Eddie?
EDDIE: ( doesn't look at him ) It doesn't matter what I think.
MALCOLM: Is there anything we've forgotten? Anything at all? Behind them, someone CLEARS THEIR THROAT. Eddie and Malcolm turn around. KELLY MALCOLM, an African-American girl around twelve years old, stands in the doorway to the garage, a duffel bag slung over one shoulder. She looks at Malcolm and breaks into a wide grin.
KELLY: Hi, Dad.
MALCOLM: Kelly! What are you doing here? She drops the bag on the floor, and wraps her arms around him in a warm embrace. He responds stiffly.
KELLY: Vacation. I'm all yours. You didn't forget, did you? She pulls back and looks at him. Did you?
MALCOLM: Okay, Karen is expecting you in half an hour. You only have to stay with her one night, she'll put you on a bus in the morning and your mother will be at the station when you get I don't even know this woman.
KELLY: I don't even know this woman.
MALCOLM: Well, I do, and she's fantastic. She'll take you to the museum, maybe to a movie if you play your cards right. You're going to have a fantastic time.
KELLY: Stop saying fantastic. Where are you I can't tell you. But I'll be back within a week.
MALCOLM: I can't tell you. But I'll be back within a week.
KELLY: My vacation is over in a week.
MALCOLM: I'll make it up to you this summer. I promise.
KELLY: I'm your daughter all the time, you know. Not just when it's convenient.
MALCOLM: Very hurtful. Your mother tell you to say that?
KELLY: No, Dad. I have thoughts of my own once in a while. From the construction floor, EDDIE calls out. Dr. Malcolm! Malcolm looks at her, trying to make peace. Quickly.
MALCOLM: Is that kid still bothering you?
KELLY: Which one?
MALCOLM: You know, at the bus stop. With the That was about a year ago.
KELLY: That was about a year ago.
MALCOLM: Well, is he?
KELLY: No. Richard talked to his parents.
MALCOLM: That Richard. Ian, come here a minute!
KELLY: ( to Malcolm ) I could come with you.
MALCOLM: Out of the question. You'd miss the gymnastics trials. You've been training for that for a year.
KELLY: I don't care about the trials, I want to be with you. I could be your research assistant, like I was in This is nothing like Austin. Forget about it.
MALCOLM: This is nothing like Austin. Forget about it.
KELLY: You like to have kids, you just don't want to be with them, do you? He looks at her, hurt. Eddie calls out a third time, impatient now. Grateful for the escape, Malcolm gets up and heads for the door. He pauses guiltily.
MALCOLM: I'm not like you wan me to be. I've what I can be. He leaves.
JUTTISON: ( as the waves pound the Couldn't we just airlift into the island?
MALCOLM: Dr. Harding insisted we go by sea! Helicopters are too disruptive. These aren't piles of bones you'll be studying this time, Dr. Juttson, they live, they breathe, and they react! Juttson looks at him skeptically and throws up.
SARAH: So what's your story, Nick?
NICK: I was a cameraman for Nightline for six years, been freelance since '91. Do a lot of work for Greenpeace.
SARAH: That must be interesting. What drew you there?
NICK: Women. 'Bout eighty percent female in Greenpeace.
SARAH: Very noble of you. You don't think you're bringing that thing onto the island, do you? Nick grins and shuts it off.
NICK: Hey, I wouldn't want to spook the woolly mammoths.
SARAH: You think this is all a joke?
NICK: Oh, please. How am I supposed to keep a straight face when Johnny Cash here tells me I'm going to Skull Island?
SARAH: ( not amused ) Ian's a very good friend of mine.
NICK: He doesn't need a friend, he needs a I believe in him. But her face says even she has her doubts.
SARAH: I believe in him. But her face says even she has her doubts.
NICK: Come on, there's only one reason any of us are here. His check cleared. She looks at him.
SARAH: Drop the cynical pose. You can't pull it off while playing Donkey The boat's CAPTAIN, a Costa Rican, points ahead and SHOUTS to There it is! They all turn and look out over the bow. Up ahead, shear, reddish-gray cliffs of volcanic rock rise dramatically out of the fog-heavy ocean. Isla Sorna! The boat ROARS ahead, plowing into a heavy wreath of fog. The mist swirls and encircles it.
CAPTAIN: There it is! They all turn and look out over the bow. Up ahead, shear, reddish-gray cliffs of volcanic rock rise dramatically out of the fog-heavy ocean. Isla Sorna! The boat ROARS ahead, plowing into a heavy wreath of fog. The mist swirls and encircles it.
MALCOLM: Be back in three days, but keep the satellite phone on and your radio tuned to the frequency I specified in case we need you sooner.
CAPTAIN: Don't worry. I've lived around here all my life, these islands are In the distance, they hear the faint, strange ROAR of a very large animal. The Captain looks at Malcolm, eyes wide. EXT. GRASSY PLAIN - DAY The jeep tows the double trailer to the edge of a grassy plain just beyond the lagoon, overlooking the interior of the island. The noon sun is high overhead; below, the valley shimmers in midday heat. EDDIE connects a flexible cable to the jeep's power winch and flicks it on. The cable turns slowly in the sunlight. Moving along the length of it, we see the cable leads to a pile of aluminum, some kind of strut assembly painted a camouflage As the winch pulls the cable tight, the jumble of thin struts begins to move, slowly rising into the air. The emerging structure climbs, spidery, struts unfolding, fifteen feet into the air. The light house at the top ( the cage that was tested back at Eddie's workshop ) is now just beneath the lowest branches of the nearby trees, which almost conceal it from view. NICK lights a cigarette and carelessly tosses the match on the ground. Malcolm notices.
MALCOLM: Listen. I know you all have probably concluded that I'm out of my mind. Is it our imagination, or did the trees behind Malcolm just sway slightly? That's all right, for now. But just humor me and be careful. No, it's not our imagination, there they go again. Whole trees shivering and swaying from left to right and back Even if you think I'm harmless and deluded, I promise Now the trees CREAKS and GROAN as they sway. Everyone has seen it, and now Malcolm turns around too. this place is for real.
EDDIE: Lindstradt air rifle. Fires a subsonic Fluger impact-delivery dart. He cracks open the cartridge bank, revealing a row of plastic containers filled with straw-colored liquid. Each is tipped with a three inch needle and carries a bright yellow warning tag "EXTREME DANGER! LETHAL TOXICITY!" I loaded the enhanced venom of Conus purpurascens, the South Sea cone shell. Most powerful neurotoxin in the world. Acts within a two-thousandth of a second. Faster than the nerve-conduction velocity. The animal's down before it feels the prick of the dart. From their right, the shaking trees seen closer now. By walking down the stream bed, the humans are tracking right along with the animals as they move in the foliage.
MALCOLM: ( to Eddie ) Is there an antidote?
EDDIE: Like if you shoot yourself in the foot? Wouldn't matter. You'd be dead before you realized you'd accidentally pulled the trigger. Ahead of them, thick foliage blocks the path of the dried up stream bed to the height of about fifteen feet. But around them, the CRASHING sounds get louder and closer, the swaying trees shiver right beside them. Eddie raises the rifle in defense as the trees right at the edge of the stream bed sway and part. Above the foliage, they see the sudden of a row of STEGOSAUR fins. The spade-shaped fins run along a ridge down the middle of the animal's back, about three feet tall each. The group freezes, amazed, and as the stegosaur continues on, they get a good look at it through a break in the foliage. It's a large dinosaur with a small head, a thick neck, and a huge lumbering body. A double row of plates runs along the crest of its back, and it has a dragging trail with long spikes in it. The gum drops out of Nick's mouth, FLOPS onto his shirt, and sticks there.
NICK: It's beautiful! A second stegosaur, a baby about a quarter the size of the first animal, breaks through the foliage, following the adult. While the group is reaching to that, the earth vibrates and a third stego, by far the biggest of the three, walks out of the foliage right behind them, crossing within ten feet. Apparently unconcerned about these little creatures in their environment, the stegos continue on across the stream bed. Sarah raises a still camera and shoots pictures. Her shutter is muted, so that a muffled CLICK is all that's audible. Juttson raises a pocket recorder to his lips and whispers into it breathlessly.
JUTTSON: It's beautiful! A second stegosaur, a baby about a quarter the size of the first animal, breaks through the foliage, following the adult. While the group is reaching to that, the earth vibrates and a third stego, by far the biggest of the three, walks out of the foliage right behind them, crossing within ten feet. Apparently unconcerned about these little creatures in their environment, the stegos continue on across the stream bed. Sarah raises a still camera and shoots pictures. Her shutter is muted, so that a muffled CLICK is all that's audible. Juttson raises a pocket recorder to his lips and whispers into it breathlessly.
EDDIE: It's beautiful! A second stegosaur, a baby about a quarter the size of the first animal, breaks through the foliage, following the adult. While the group is reaching to that, the earth vibrates and a third stego, by far the biggest of the three, walks out of the foliage right behind them, crossing within ten feet. Apparently unconcerned about these little creatures in their environment, the stegos continue on across the stream bed. Sarah raises a still camera and shoots pictures. Her shutter is muted, so that a muffled CLICK is all that's audible. Juttson raises a pocket recorder to his lips and whispers into it breathlessly.
SARAH: It's beautiful! A second stegosaur, a baby about a quarter the size of the first animal, breaks through the foliage, following the adult. While the group is reaching to that, the earth vibrates and a third stego, by far the biggest of the three, walks out of the foliage right behind them, crossing within ten feet. Apparently unconcerned about these little creatures in their environment, the stegos continue on across the stream bed. Sarah raises a still camera and shoots pictures. Her shutter is muted, so that a muffled CLICK is all that's audible. Juttson raises a pocket recorder to his lips and whispers into it breathlessly.
JUTTSON: Stegosaurus, family Stegosauridae, infraorder Stegosauria, suborder Thyreophora. Length, adult male, estimate twenty-five to thirty feet. His breathy words turn into almost helpless laughter, of all things, as he can't contain his astonishment. Eddie covers his mouth, trying to keep him quiet.
SARAH: ( to Juttsn ) That was a pair bond! A family group, even, long after that infant was nestbound!
JUTTSON: I want to see the nesting ground! Nick turns to Malcolm, eyes like saucers, and makes a futile, wordless, boy-was-I-wrong-on-this-one gesture. Malcolm smiles, leans over, and TAPS softly on Nick's video camera. Nick raises it to his shoulder and flicks it on as the group continues on into the bush after the animals.
SARAH: Lone nest not colonial. I don't see an egg clutch. She gestures and Juttson peers through a pair of field The empty shells are crushed and trampled. The young stay in the birth environment, that's conclusive!
JUTTSON: ( whispering back ) The empty shells are crushed and trampled. The young stay in the birth environment, that's conclusive!
SARAH: Not without a shot of the nest. She sees an opportunity. As the baby heads back to its parents, Sarah scoots right along with it, moving behind it, using its body as a shield to block her from the view of the other two. Nick and Eddie's faces whiten in alarm. Nick reaches out to stop her, but he barely gets hold of the sole of her boot before she pulls away from him and duckwalks out into the IN THE CLEARING, Sarah slinks along behind the baby stego as it walks back, toward the nest, chewing the branches it carries in its south. She raises up sightly, squeezing off pictures of the herd, ever better as she gets closer.
NICK: She's gutty.
MALCOLM: She's nuts.
SARAH: Ian, you're not insane! I'm so Dr. Malcolm the world owes you an apology.
JUTTSON: ( out of breath ) Dr. Malcolm the world owes you an apology.
SARAH: No more smoking. We leave no scent of any kind. No hair tonics, no cologne, seal all our food in plastic bags. We will observe and document, but we will not interact.
MALCOLM: That's a scientific impossibility, you know. Heisenberg uncertainty principle. Whatever you study, you also change. Nick ejects the used videotape from his camera and pulls out a sharpie, to label it.
NICK: What should I call this? "Jurassic Eddie, next to him, laughs.
SARAH: ( still to Malcolm ) And let's forget about the high hide. We can't do this kind of work up in a tower, we need to be out in the field, as close to the animals as I'm not surprised stegosaur lived in a family group, but there's never been anything in the fossil record to prove the carnivores did.
JUTTSON: I'm not surprised stegosaur lived in a family group, but there's never been anything in the fossil record to prove the carnivores did.
SARAH: Why wouldn't they? Look at hyenas, jackals, nearly all species of predator birds
JUTTSON: That doesn't say a thing about T-rex, they could have been rogues. Robert Burke certainly thinks they were.
SARAH: We've got to see one to find out. Is there any
MALCOLM: No way.
NICK: Oh, my God.
SARAH: way we could safely
NICK: Oh, no! He takes off, running as fast as he can, down the trail, toward base camp. They look ahead, in the direction Nick is running. A plume of black smoke is rising up over the trees.
EDDIE: CUT TO: EXT. BASE CAMP - DAY NICK bursts out of the trees and races toward the thick plume of smoke. In the middle of the base camp, someone has neatly built a campfire surrounded by stones. Flames burn in the Nick races over to it and stomps it out as the OTHERS emerge from the trees behind him.
MALCOLM: A campfire?! Nick grabs a jug of water, but Sarah steps in.
SARAH: No! Water mixes the smoke billow, use dirt! They start to kick and rake dirt onto the fire with their hands and feet. Eddie and Dr. Juttson jump in and help out.
MALCOLM: Who the hell started a campfire?! It was just to make lunch. Malcolm turns toward the source of the voice. KELLY stands in the doorway of the trailer, sheepish. The whole group stares, stunned, none more so than Malcolm Oh . man.
MALCOLM: Oh . man.
MALCOLM: You know you were putting yourself in a potentially dangerous situation, but you didn't bother to find out how dangerous before you leapt in. You don't have the faintest idea what's going on on this island!
SARAH: ( loading a backpack ) What do you want to do, Ian, lock her up for curiosity? Where do you think she gets it?
JUTTSON: ( to Nick ) Do you have chromium tapes? The others fog in high-
NICK: -humidity, I know. Highest lead density on the market.
EDDIE: ( to Malcolm ) We've got a lot of heavy marching ahead of us. I'm not carrying I can keep up.
KELLY: I can keep up.
MALCOLM: You're going home. I'm sending a radio call for the boats. We'll all go down to the lagoon and wait for Lighten up, Ian, you sound like a high school vice-principal.
SARAH: Lighten up, Ian, you sound like a high school vice-principal.
MALCOLM: I'm her father.
KELLY: Sure, now. Nick leans over and whispers to Eddie, gesturing to Malcolm and Kelly.
NICK: Do you see any family resemblance You can't stay, Kelly, that's it. It's too dangerous.
MALCOLM: You can't stay, Kelly, that's it. It's too dangerous.
SARAH: If it's so dangerous, why'd you bring any of us?
KELLY: You're wrong, Dad. I do know what's going on on this island.
MALCOLM: How could you possibly?
KELLY: Because you said so. Maybe nobody else believed you, but I always He looks at her, touched. Nick mutters to Eddie again.
NICK: The kid scores with cheap sentiment.
SARAH: Ian, if we recall the boat now, we've made two invasive landings in one day. That'll have to go in any paper I write, and it will leave room for people to say our findings were contaminated. You know the academic world as well as I do, once they smell blood in the water, you're dead. Our presence has got to be one hundred percent antiseptic. That means if we bend a blade of grass, we bend it right back the way it- A low sound has been rising while she speaks, and now it comes BOOMING over the jungle around them, a THUNDEROUS racket that shakes the very ground beneath them. Suddenly, three C-130 military cargo planes THUNDER overhead and ROAR toward the island interior, flying very low. The planes are enormous, fat-assed creatures, their rear cargo doors hanging open.
DOWN BELOW,: huge metal equipment containers are shoved out the back of the cargo bays. They SNAP off trees like matchsticks, CRUSH flat anything foolish enough to exist where they want to land. Now MEN pour out the rear of the planes, their low-altitude parachutes billowing open behind them.
NICK: You were saying something about EXT. HUNTERS' CAMP - DAY Metal container doors CLANG to the ground, jeep engines ROAR to life in a cloud of thick black diesel smoke, blue laser barriers SIZZLE and BURN through foliage as this group of HUNTERS establishes a perimeter around their new camp. PETER LUDLOW, dressed in brand new Banana Republic safari wear, steps into the center of the camp and surveys the surroundings. He turns to DR. ROBERT BURKE, a ragged, pony-tailed man in wire-rimmed glasses.
LUDLOW: Welcome to your dream come true, Dr. Burke has a detailed set of satellite recon photographs that he spreads out on the hood of a jeep.
BURKE: I believe the large herbivores forage in open plains, like bison, which would explain the great variety of heat dots we're reading in the flatlands around this waterhole. Right here.
LUDLOW: Then that's where we're going. Burke flips open a manifest that he will carry with him at all times. Inside, there are dozens of sketches of various kinds underneath. As each vehicle ROARS out of the equipment container, Burke slips a waterproof eight by ten card with an icon of the various dinosaurs on the island into a slot in the Hadrosaurus! Carinthosaurus! As the procession goes on, Ludlow turns to DIETER STARK, the man we saw welding earlier.
BURKE: ( calling them off ) Hadrosaurus! Carinthosaurus! As the procession goes on, Ludlow turns to DIETER STARK, the man we saw welding earlier.
LUDLOW: This is as good a place as any for base camp. First priority is the laser barriers, I want them all up and running in thirty minutes. Half an hour, understand? Dieter nods and turns to some of the HUNTERS, who number about twenty in all, that are working nearby. But someone steps in front of Dieter, cutting him off. It's ROLAND TEMBO, the hunter from the bar in Mombassa.
ROLAND: Cancel that, Dieter.
LUDLOW: What? Why? Roland points to a stream running nearby.
ROLAND: Carnivores hunt near stream beds. Do you want to set up base camp or an all-you-can-eat people bar?
LUDLOW: ( thinks ) You heard his, Dieter. Find a new spot. And remember, we're after herbivores only no unnecessary Dieter SIGHS and goes to work. Roland puts an arm around Ludlow and pulls him aside.
ROLAND: Peter, if you want me to run your little camping trip, there are two conditions. First I'm in charge, and when I'm not around, Dieter is. Your job is to sign the checks, tell us we're doing a good job, and open your case of scotch when we have a good day. Second condition my fee. You can keep it. All I want in exchange for my services is the right to hunt one of the tyrannosaurs. A male. Buck only. Why and how are my business. If you don't like either of those conditions, you're on your own. Go ahead and set up your camp right here, or in a swamp, or in the middle of a rex nest, for all I care. But I've been on too many safaris with rich dentists to listen to any more suicidal ideas. Okay?
LUDLOW: ( what else can he say? ) Good lad.
ROLAND: Good lad.
BURKE: ( enchanted ) Huh? No! No, herbivore, late Cretaceous. Very unusual plant eater, see that distinctive domed skull? That's nine inches of solid ( who cares? ) Just get them out of the way, Dieter.
LUDLOW: ( enchanted ) Huh? No! No, herbivore, late Cretaceous. Very unusual plant eater, see that distinctive domed skull? That's nine inches of solid ( who cares? ) Just get them out of the way, Dieter.
BURKE: ( enchanted ) Huh? No! No, herbivore, late Cretaceous. Very unusual plant eater, see that distinctive domed skull? That's nine inches of solid ( who cares? ) Just get them out of the way, Dieter.
LUDLOW: ( who cares? ) Just get them out of the way, Dieter.
DIETER: COME ON, MOVE IT!! The pachys look up at him sluggishly, still eating, like cows chewing their cuds. As unimpressive with him as he is with them, they go back to their grass. Oh, for God's He slings his rifle off his shoulder and aims it at the closest animal. Behind him, Roland has climbed out of the second jeep.
ROLAND: Dieter. This is a round-up, not a war. Use your powers of persuasion. Dieter gestures to the speedbird to pull ahead, which it does, slowly, toward the animals. The pachys look up, alert, but do not move. Dieter walks toward them.
DIETER: Come on, come on, don't have all See, the pachy's neck attaches at the bottom of its skull instead of the back of its head, as with reptiles. The speedbird draws closer. The first pachy stares at it intently. The lead vehicle gets closer, closer and BANGS into the pachy, knocking it back a few feet, out of the way. So when it lowers its head, its neck lines up directly with its BEHIND DIETER, Ajay is staring at something on the ground at his feet. He takes a few steps further into the foliage, then turns back toward Roland.
BURKE: ( going on to no one in See, the pachy's neck attaches at the bottom of its skull instead of the back of its head, as with reptiles. The speedbird draws closer. The first pachy stares at it intently. The lead vehicle gets closer, closer and BANGS into the pachy, knocking it back a few feet, out of the way. So when it lowers its head, its neck lines up directly with its BEHIND DIETER, Ajay is staring at something on the ground at his feet. He takes a few steps further into the foliage, then turns back toward Roland.
BEHIND DIETER,: Ajay is staring at something on the ground at his feet. He takes a few steps further into the foliage, then turns back toward Roland.
AJAY: UP AT THE FRONT, the pachys turn and hop away. Dieter turns and heads back to the speedbird. As he reaches for the door, a VOICE calls "look out!" from behind him. Dieter spins around, just in time to see the first pachy in full charge. It SLAMS headfirst into the speedbird, SMASHING the headlights and denting the grill.
BURKE: ( concluding his lecture ) Which is perfect for absorbing Dieter turns and runs around to the front of the car. The pachy has backed up for another run and is now CHARGING RIGHT
AJAY: It matches the pictures.
ROLAND: It certainly does. Roland gets up and goes back to his vehicle, ignoring the pachy demolition derby that continues up at the speedbird. Roland opens a case in the back of the jeep, revealing his gun. It's an antique elephant gun, a double barreled .600 Nitro Express. Nearly a hundred years old, it's still in immaculate condition, its rosewood stock buttery smooth, bisons delicately engraved along its silver breach. The barrels are twenty-four inches long, topped with an ivory bead foresight at the business end. Roland scoops up the gun, breaks the breach, and pulls two rounds of ammunition from his shirt pocket. Four inches long and three-quarters of an inch in diameter, these are the largest full metal jacket cartridges ever made. He slips one into each barrel and heads back into the bush. Roland pauses before he goes, as if noticing the animals trashing the speedbird for the first time.
ROLAND: The pachys all freeze, staring at him. Roland waves one hand, HISSES sharply between his teeth and the pachys scatter, back into the jungle. Takes care of that problem. Roland turns and heads back into the jungle, calling out over his shoulder to Ludlow.
HEY!: The pachys all freeze, staring at him. Roland waves one hand, HISSES sharply between his teeth and the pachys scatter, back into the jungle. Takes care of that problem. Roland turns and heads back into the jungle, calling out over his shoulder to Ludlow.
LUDLOW: Where do you think you're going?!
ROLAND: To collect my fee. And with that he disappears into the foliage. The Driver of the Speedbird drops it into gear and the battered car GROANS forward. As it moves ahead, it reveals DIETER, lying underneath it, ego bruised worse than body.
ROLAND: Ajay turns. Roland points in the direction in which the footprints lead.
AJAY: Do you wish to go where the animal has been, or where the animal is? Roland smiles. Ajay sets off in his direction and Roland EXT. ISLAND RIDGE - DAY Seen from a ridge above them, the hunters' convoy continues to plow through the jungle. But how the hunters themselves are being tracked, followed by the GATHERERS. They scurry along as fast as they can, trying to keep pace with the moving vehicle below.
EDDIE: Why didn't you tell us about these guys, Ian?!
MALCOLM: Because I didn't know! I don't have the faintest idea what they're doing Ruining everything, that's what they're doing. You could choke on the diesel smoke already!
NICK: ( angry ) Ruining everything, that's what they're doing. You could choke on the diesel smoke already!
SARAH: Ian, nothing we observe will be valid if we're trailing along in the wake of an army. Kelly has a pair of binoculars and is studying the vehicles as they move below.
KELLY: "InGen." What's InGen?
MALCOLM: Where does it say that?
KELLY: On the side of that one truck. Malcolm takes the binoculars and stares down there himself.
JUTTSON: InGen is a genetics corporation, isn't it?
NICK: ( to Malcolm ) Is that who we're really working for?! Gene splicers?!
MALCOLM: No! We're an independently funded Funded by whom?
SARAH: Funded by whom?
MALCOLM: John Hammond.
JUTTSON: But he's the head of InGen!
NICK: You gotta be kidding. You dragged me out of Greenpeace to be a corporate stooge? You couldn't get anybody else?
KELLY: Yeah, what have you done, Dad?
SARAH: We'd better keep moving, or we'll lose them. The group moves on ahead, but Malcolm lingers, angry, staring through the binoculars.
MALCOLM: What are you doing to me, John?
ROLAND: It's the rex nest. Ajay nods. The baby tyrannosaur hears the whisper and looks up, cocking its head in curiosity.
AJAY: Make a blind here? Wait for the buck to return?
ROLAND: ( shakes his head no ) If the nest is upwind, so are we. When he comes back, he'll know we're here before we have a chance. The In the nest below, the baby SQUEAKS angrily at the intruders. is to get him to come where we want him. The baby SQUEAKS again, indignant. Roland turns and looks down at it. Thinking.
HUNTER: LOOK AT THESE THINGS! THEY'RE BEAUTIFUL, MAN, THEY'RE One of the pursuit vehicles ( a "snagger" ), pulls ahead of the others. DIETER STARK stands in the passenger seat, holding a long pole with a noose dangling from the end of it. He swings the pole out over the side of the jeep and SHOUTS to the driver.
HUNTER 2: THEY'RE BEAUTIFUL, MAN, THEY'RE One of the pursuit vehicles ( a "snagger" ), pulls ahead of the others. DIETER STARK stands in the passenger seat, holding a long pole with a noose dangling from the end of it. He swings the pole out over the side of the jeep and SHOUTS to the driver.
BEAUTIFUL!!!: One of the pursuit vehicles ( a "snagger" ), pulls ahead of the others. DIETER STARK stands in the passenger seat, holding a long pole with a noose dangling from the end of it. He swings the pole out over the side of the jeep and SHOUTS to the driver.
DIETER: The Driver hits the gas and the snagger leaps forward, gaining on the herd. Aware of the danger behind them, the herd veers to the right, toward the cover of thick jungle but the motorcycle ROARS in from the right side, cutting them off, herding them back out into the open.
FASTER!: The Driver hits the gas and the snagger leaps forward, gaining on the herd. Aware of the danger behind them, the herd veers to the right, toward the cover of thick jungle but the motorcycle ROARS in from the right side, cutting them off, herding them back out into the open.
LUDLOW: Alive, Dieter, and uninjured!
DIETER: ( to the Driver ) Turn that off! The Driver SNAPS off the radio as Dieter grabs a long-barreled rifle from the back of the vehicle.
THE MOTORCYCLE: guns it again, forcing the herd back into the middle of the plain. From the trees to the left, two heads on enormous necks rise up in alarm. Two APATOSAURS are startled from the bush and lumber out across the middle of the plain. The herd doesn't even break stride, but keeps running, scampering after the giants and stampeding right between their massive legs. One smaller pachycephalosaur bolts loose, but the motorcycle cuts it off and herds it back into the middle, which now takes the motorcycle right through the rising and falling legs of the apotosaurs. The bike chases the pachy out the other side, and as the apatosaurs disappear into the distance, the cycle isolates the Another truck, a "scissor rig," spots the isolated animal. High in the back of the truck, a HUNTER mans a tranquilizer cannon, drawing a bead on the pachy as the cycle runs it down. He FIRES and the tranquilizer dart hits the animal in the neck. Its pace slows and another HUNTER from the truck tosses a lasso around its neck. They crank a winch, reeling in the animal. As the truck gain on it, two six-foot padded arms with what look like heavy airbags on the insides open up on the front of the truck. As the animal is pulled in, the scissors close with a hydraulic WHIR, trapping the animal between its airbags. Now a pick-up rig ROARS up and drops its back gate. The scissor rig rolls forward, depositing the squirming pachy in this dino-contaiment vehicle. Two HUNTERS throw levers on the side of the scissor bars and the scissor rig backs away, leaving the animal, still pinched between the bars, imprisoned in the back of the pick-up rig. The Hunters quickly fit new scissor bars onto the scissor rig and it takes off, back into the hunt.
BANG!!: The carinthosaur staggers as a tranquilizer dart sticks in its left hindquarter.
DIETER: Easy easy not too close! Full extension! The Wranglers adjust their poles, extending them another three feet, which allows them to stay further from the reeling, ten foot tall animal. Almost as one, the Wranglers flip their noose over the stunned animal's neck. It thrashes, but the Wranglers hold their poles tightly, surrounding and immobilizing it.
DIETER: Next case.
JUTTSON: Carinthosaurus compsognathus triceratops pachycephalosaurus or small scavengers only. Malcolm, also with binoculars, furrows his brow, seeing something below.
MALCOLM: Ludlow. That's why Hammond was in such a hurry for me to get here. He knew they were coming. He gives the binoculars to Sarah, who moves forward gingerly. You okay?
SARAH: ( irritated ) Heights, I can't help it. Put your arm here, will you? She puts his arm around her waits, to steady her while she is close to the cliff edge.
JUTTSON: What do they want?
MALCOLM: They want their money back. To InGen, this island is nothing more than a bed investment.
JUTTSON: We should get back to base camp. Eddie's waiting for us.
MALCOLM: I can't believe Peter Ludlow's running all this.
SARAH: He isn't. Check out the guy walking past the fire. She hands the binoculars to Malcolm.
MALCOLM: Well, if that's true the man in charge just left camp. Nick, who has been quietly fuming next to them, now steps Then this is our chance.
NICK: Then this is our chance.
MALCOLM: Our chance to do what?
NICK: I don't know these guys, but I know 'em. I've seen 'em on Japanese whalers, French barges trying to dump barrels of nuclear waste in the North Atlantic. They're all the same. They spray us with water cannon when we try to stop 'em, sink our boats, and then call us crazy. He rummages through his pack, coming up with various tools. A hunting knife. A bolt cutter. Nobody has to come with me. I've done this before.
SARAH: Why, Nick. You are a tree-hugger. He looks at her, hurt.
NICK: There' no reason for name calling.
MALCOLM: Dr. Juttson, please take Kelly back to camp right away. Leave the other car for us and we'll meet you there in an hour or so.
KELLY: What are you guys gonna do?
MALCOLM: ( signs ) Exactly what John Hammond wanted us to do.
ROLAND: Offering a little incentive. Ludlow laughs and shakes his head. He takes a drink and offers Roland one. Roland accepts. Ludlow notices Roland's gun leaning against a tree.
LUDLOW: What kind of gun is that?
ROLAND: My father's .600 Nitro Express. Made in 1904. Karimojo Bell gave it to him after he took down his last elephant. 8700 foot pound striking How close do you have to be?
LUDLOW: How close do you have to be?
ROLAND: Forty yards. Less, maybe. I assume it'll take a slug in the brain case to bring him down.
LUDLOW: Why not just use a scope and a poison dart and snipe him from a hill? Roland just looks at him.
ROLAND: Or a laser beam from a satellite? Ludlow leans down, close to the baby rex, and examines it while it thrashes on its chain. Its mouth has been bound shut with a leather strap.
LUDLOW: You rally think this'll draw the I once saw a bull elephant die charging a jeep. All the jeep had done was startle the bull's calves. I saw a lioness carry wounded prey four and a half miles, all the way back to its den, just to teach its cubs how to finish off a kill.
ROLAND: I once saw a bull elephant die charging a jeep. All the jeep had done was startle the bull's calves. I saw a lioness carry wounded prey four and a half miles, all the way back to its den, just to teach its cubs how to finish off a kill.
LUDLOW: Killing lessons? Heartwarming.
ROLAND: Rex won't be any different. It'll You're kidding yourself. An adult T-rex cares about one thing filling its own belly. It acts the way people wish they could, that's why everyone's fascinated by it. If people had the chance to see one dinosaur and one only, ninety-nine percent would He stops, an idea on his face. Wait. Why not? Sedatives. growth inhibitors.
LUDLOW: You're kidding yourself. An adult T-rex cares about one thing filling its own belly. It acts the way people wish they could, that's why everyone's fascinated by it. If people had the chance to see one dinosaur and one only, ninety-nine percent would He stops, an idea on his face. Wait. Why not? Sedatives. growth inhibitors.
ROLAND: I hadn't planned on bringing carnivores back because of the liability risk, but I only thought of adults, it never occurred to me You are a billion dollar idea, my little f- CRACK! The tyrannosaur, even with its jaws clamped shut, lunges at Ludlow's face, head-butting him right across the bridge of the nose. Ludlow staggers back, WAITING in pain, clutching his bleeding face. Roland laughs. Ludlow, like an enraged child, snatches up Roland's gun and brings the butt down viciously on the rex's leg. The bone breaks with a dry SNAP and the animal HOWLS in Roland lunges and throws Ludlow to the ground, but the damage is done.
LUDLOW: I hadn't planned on bringing carnivores back because of the liability risk, but I only thought of adults, it never occurred to me You are a billion dollar idea, my little f- CRACK! The tyrannosaur, even with its jaws clamped shut, lunges at Ludlow's face, head-butting him right across the bridge of the nose. Ludlow staggers back, WAITING in pain, clutching his bleeding face. Roland laughs. Ludlow, like an enraged child, snatches up Roland's gun and brings the butt down viciously on the rex's leg. The bone breaks with a dry SNAP and the animal HOWLS in Roland lunges and throws Ludlow to the ground, but the damage is done.
ROLAND: What the hell you do that for?! As his pain eases, Ludlow feels a bit foolish, but he attempts to cover.
LUDLOW: Had to. To keep him still for the You've broken its leg!
ROLAND: You've broken its leg!
LUDLOW: We've got to transport it seven thousand miles. Would you prefer it bit off the leg of a crew member? He gets up, brushes himself off, and heads back to the camp, trying to salvage his dignity. Roland watches him go.
NICK: Hang on. We may encounter some INT. HUNTERS' CAMP - NIGHT In one of the hunter tents, PETER LUDLOW leans over the satellite recon pictures of the island, planning the next day's assault with DIETER and DR. BURKE, their paleontologist. There are small wooden dinosaur models scattered around the photos, indicating where certain species can be found.
BURKE: If you're really interested in infants, we'll have better luck at the seaside, because the sands offer a cushioning surface where the egg clutches can can He trails off. A low RUMBLING sound can be heard outside, and the little wooden dinosaurs start shaking on the board. They look at each other. The RUMBLING gets louder. Outside, someone SHOUTS; on the board, the little dinosaurs start hopping and bouncing from the vibrations, the SHOUTS outside turn to SCREAMS, they turn and look at the back of the tent and the triceratops bursts right through the canvas!
ROLAND: What in God's !
ROLAND: Last time I leave you in charge.
NICK: Sick bastards. He goes to the animal, which now BLEATS in pain, its broken leg hanging at an odd angle. With one strong tug, Nick pulls the stake out of the ground.
LUDLOW: What in Christ's name is going on?!
ROLAND: Isn't it obvious? He holds up the sniped padlock from one of the animal cages. We're not alone on this island.
SARAH: Nick, thank God, we didn't know Malcolm opens the rear door.
NICK: Wait, don't - With a piercing SHRIEK, the BABY TYRANNOSAUR, now in the back of the AAV, flings itself at the open doorway, jaws SNAPPING just short of Malcolm's nose.
MALCOLM: HOLY SHIT!! He SLAMS the door.
HOLY SHIT!!: He SLAMS the door.
ROLAND: Do we have anyone up there?
MALCOLM: It has a broken leg!
NICK: It has a broken leg!
MALCOLM: So do it a favor and put it out of its misery!
NICK: No! Get in the car before they hear He runs around and leaps in the driver's seat. Sarah slips into the passenger seat, quickly, leaving Malcolm no choice but the rear.
SARAH: Ian, close the window, it's going to wake every predator in the jungle! Malcolm leans over the enraged animal and cranks up its window. The tyrannosaur SLASHES with one of its powerful hind legs, ripping the flesh of his forearm. He SHOUTS in pain. Outside, the listening jungle whizzes by.
JUTTSON: There they are! They all turn and look, but Eddie furrows his brow, watching them pull the wounded animal from the back seat.
EDDIE: What is that they have with them?
MALCOLM: This is exceedingly unwise. Sarah turns away from a drawer of medical supplies, holding a small syringe. Her shirt is streaked with blood from the baby's injured leg.
SARAH: Too late to worry about that! Hold him together, Nick! Nick tightens his grip on the animal and Sarah makes an injection into its thigh, over its loudly voiced objections.
MALCOLM: Just do whatever you have to do and get it out of here as quickly as Sarah picks up a small ultrasound transducer and runs it over the animal's leg. A green and white skeletal image appears on a monitor next to the table.
SARAH: Okay, there's the metatarsals tibia, fibula there it is! See it? That's a fracture, just above the epiphysis. They peer closely at the monitor.
NICK: That little black line?
SARAH: That little black line means death for this infant. The fibula won't heal straight, so the ankle joint can't pivot when he stands on his hind feet. The baby won't be able to run, and probably can't even walk. It'll be crippled, and a predator will pick it off before it gets more than a few weeks old.
MALCOLM: Can you set up?
SARAH: ( thinking ) It has to be temporary, something that'll break apart and fall off as the animal grows.
MALCOLM: Think fast, Sarah. The tyrannosaur, still in pain, SHRIEKS again.
KELLY: What are they doing? Why don't they hurry?!
EDDIE: Give me the radio. From the trailer, the baby lets out a long, plaintive
SHRIEK: One by one, Eddie, Kelly, and Juttson turn around and stare into the night jungle.
NICK: Give it more morphine!
SARAH: We'll kill it with too much, we'll put it into respiratory arrest! I'm almost done. Damn it, I need another adhesive, something pliable I Her eyes fall on Nick. She holds out her hand, urgently. He spits his bubblegum into the palm of her hand. The baby rex CRIES OUT again.
KELLY: What is it? Dr. Juttson puts an arm around Kelly, instinctively pulling her closer to him. Eddie WHISPERS urgently into the Sarah, come in!
EDDIE: Sarah, come in!
JUTTSON: It's moving. Fast.
SARAH: Hold it down, Nick!
NICK: I'm trying! Is anybody there?! Malcolm moves to answer the radio, but Sarah SHOUTS to him.
SARAH: Ian, get the bottle of amoxicillin and fill a syringe! Quick injection of antibiotics and I can get it out of here! Forsaking the radio, Malcolm moves to the medicine drawer and comes up with what she wants. Working fast, he draws twenty cc's of the pink liquid.
EDDIE: WE ESTIMATE TWO LARGE ADULTS HEADED IN YOUR DIRECTION! I REPEAT INT. TRAILER - NIGHT Nick, Sarah, and Malcolm spin around at hearing that terrible piece of information.
MALCOLM: Oh, Christ. He bolts over to the wall speaker and hits the button. Let me talk to Kelly, is she A deafening ROAR sound from just outside the trailer, followed immediately by a CRASHING sound. They whirl and look to the window, just in time to see the AAV tumbling by, rolling on its side! There is another ROAR, and the baby, on the table, ROARS in response. Outside the window, the head of a full-grown TYRANNOSAURUS REX lowers and peers inside. Malcolm, Sarah, and Nick all freeze in absolute terror. The rex outside GURGLES, making material cooing noises. The baby rex, calm for the first time, GURGLES back. But across the trailer, in the opposite window, ANOTHER T-REX
NICK: What do they want?!
MALCOLM: What do you think they want?!
SARAH: That's impossible, they can't have the sensory equipment to track it all the way here!
MALCOLM: Current evidence seems to be to the contrary, wouldn't you say?! GIVE IT
TO THEM!: Nick, hands shaking, grabs the shoulder video camera he used earlier. He whips out the cassette that's in there, hurls it into an open duffel bag with half a dozen others, SLAMS a fresh cassette in, and flicks the "ON" switch. Sarah and Malcolm, meanwhile, hurry to the other end of the trailer, carrying the baby rex. Outside, the two adult rexes stay with them, walking in the same direction, watching them through the window.
SARAH: Malcolm reaches for the door handle.
NICK: He dives down on the floor under them, pointing the video camera up at the door, getting the best shot. Malcolm takes a breath, turns the knob, and throws open the door. Outside, the enormous rex heads pause for a moment, staring, Although terrified, Sarah actually starts to sing.
SARAH: ( softly ) Born free, as free as the wind blows. As free as the grass grows
MALCOLM: Are you insane?!
SARAH: I swear to God, it works with lions sometimes! There we are your baby is free The baby, excited, wriggles free of them and lands on the ground outside. Not wasting a second, Malcolm SLAMS the door The three of them freeze, not daring to breath. Outside, they can hear the SNUFFLING and COOING of the animals as they inspect their young and then the soft THUD of their footsteps, growing fainter as they move away. From the wall, EDDIE'S VOICE comes over the radio, relieved.
EDDIE: They're going back into the jungle.
EDDIE: Thank God. Thank God. MALCOLM'S VOICE comes over the radio. Kelly? Are you all right? She takes the radio, her voice shaky.
KELLY: Uh huh.
MALCOLM: Wait there. I'll come up in a minute. Don't move, understand? I understand. Malcolm slump against the wall of the trailer. SARAH and NICK sit on the floor leaning against the opposite wall, completely drained. Sarah pulls out her pocket recorder and speaks shakily into it.
SARAH: Note to Dr. Juttson Tyrannosaurus rex does nurture its young. They laugh weakly.
NICK: There's, uh there's an unwritten rule when a news crew is in a war zone. You stop the van every two miles and decide whether or not to go on. Whether or not you feel lucky. One "no" from anybody in the group and you turn around right there, no question asked, nobody embarrassed. Well? Do we go on? No way. They all laugh.
SARAH: No way. They all laugh.
MALCOLM: No way. They all laugh.
NICK: No way. They all laugh.
MALCOLM: All right. I'm satisfied with the evidence we have right now. I feel vindicated. John Hammond will Do you have enough to publish?
SARAH: They will come after me. But I can collect some stool samples, for DNA with that, Nick's tapes, and the rest of you to back me up, it should stand when we get back.
MALCOLM: ( getting up ) Then the only thing left to do is make sure we do get back. I'll call the mainland on the satellite phone and have them send the boat right now. This expedition is over. He goes to the desk and picks up the heavy gray satellite phone that's resting in a battery pack. The front panel lights up, a brilliant green. But from the wall speaker, the radio CRACKLES and EDDIE'S VOICE breaks through, soft and empty. Oh, God. I am so sorry. Malcolm and Sarah look at the speaker box.
MALCOLM: What the hell is he sorry f- A low RATTLE sneaks into the trailer. Malcolm, Sarah, and Nick takes a step forward from the walls, looking around. The RATTLE gets louder, the trailer shakes and vibrates, everything in it starts to BANG against the walls and something huge SMASHES into the side of the trailer. They're all thrown against the far wall, there is an earsplitting CRACK of electricity, the entire trailer rocks and sparks a brilliant blue, and then everything goes black. The satellite phone flies out of Malcolm's hands and SMACKS against the wall. It lands on the floor, its number pad still glowing green. Nick crawls over and looks out one of the windows. Outside, the flank of one of the tyrannosaurs wipes past the window, revealing the second tyrannosaur, charging straight at the HANG ON TO SOMETHING! They hurl themselves at the nearest solid object and hang on for dear life. The charging rex SLAM into the side of the trailer, which rocks up on one side, BANGS back down, and is quickly RAMMED again by the furious animal. This time the entire trailer rolls over, completely upside down. Sarah, Nick, and Malcolm let go of their precarious handholds and drop onto the ceiling. The tables, chairs, lab equipment, everything that's bolted down clings to the floor above them; everything that isn't RAINS DOWN ON THEM. But the rexes aren't done. The trailer JOLTS INTO MOTION, sliding forwards.
NICK: HANG ON TO SOMETHING! They hurl themselves at the nearest solid object and hang on for dear life. The charging rex SLAM into the side of the trailer, which rocks up on one side, BANGS back down, and is quickly RAMMED again by the furious animal. This time the entire trailer rolls over, completely upside down. Sarah, Nick, and Malcolm let go of their precarious handholds and drop onto the ceiling. The tables, chairs, lab equipment, everything that's bolted down clings to the floor above them; everything that isn't RAINS DOWN ON THEM. But the rexes aren't done. The trailer JOLTS INTO MOTION, sliding forwards.
SARAH: They're pushing us! Malcolm, frantic, crawls up to a window to get a look outside. He looks down and sees a T-rex footprint in the earth outside as they move past it. He cranks his head to get a look at the direction in which they are being pushed. His eyes widen at something he sees outside the window.
MALCOLM: Oh, God.
SARAH: They're pushing us over the cliff. Sure enough, out the back window, we see a few more feet of muddy earth, and then nothing but inky black. The three of them look at each other for a moment and then crawl like hell toward the other end of the trailer. The opposite end reaches the edge of the cliff and starts up to tip ever-so-slightly downward. They reach the accordion-like connector and Malcolm crawls into it.
MALCOLM: They're pushing us over the cliff. Sure enough, out the back window, we see a few more feet of muddy earth, and then nothing but inky black. The three of them look at each other for a moment and then crawl like hell toward the other end of the trailer. The opposite end reaches the edge of the cliff and starts up to tip ever-so-slightly downward. They reach the accordion-like connector and Malcolm crawls into it.
NICK: SARAH! DON'T MOVE! Sarah, stunned by the fall, blinks a few times, regaining her senses. She looks down, at the crashing surf so far below. For a person with a fear of heights, this is a real drag. As she stares, the rocks seem to move even farther away from her. She blanches; the world spins around her.
SARAH: OH. GOD . please. Her breath fogs the cracked glass. Slowly, she tries to get up, caaaaaarefully pulling herself up to her hands and knees. But as she puts pressures on her hands, the glass CRACKS even more, tiny spiderwebs shooting out around her fingers. The whole glass panel sags, bowing out around the bottom of the UP ABOVE HER, Malcolm looks down and sees the satellite phone precariously balanced on one leg of the kitchen table, its number pad still glowing green. Nick is closest to it.
MALCOLM: Nick! Grab the phone!
SARAH: looks to her right, at a metal grating that runs along the wall of the trailer. She shifts her weight, leaning on one hand to reach for the grating with the other.
NICK: reaches for the satellite phone, its antenna just six inches from his outstretched fingers.
SARAH: leans toward the metal grating, all hairline cracks shoot out around her pivot hand, shaking through the glass. The splintered glass spread like a disease, it reaches the edge of the frame and her hand CRACKS right through the glass. She GASPS and pulls her hand out, but now she knees SMASH through the has two fingers on the phone, but suddenly the whole trailer shudders and the heavy phone tips off the table leg and falls.
NICK: has two fingers on the phone, but suddenly the whole trailer shudders and the heavy phone tips off the table leg and falls.
NICK: SARAH LOOK OUT! lunges for the metal grating and clings to it just as the heavy phone whizzes past her head and SMASHES into the glass, opening up a huge hole in the center of the back window.
SARAH: lunges for the metal grating and clings to it just as the heavy phone whizzes past her head and SMASHES into the glass, opening up a huge hole in the center of the back window.
BELOW HIM,: Sarah mountain-climbs through the trailer's kitchen, inadvertently kicking the faucet on as she struggles for the tree branch SNAPS and the trailer jerks, stretching down again. The bellows expands to its full length, stretching like a Slinky.
OUTSIDE,: the tree branch SNAPS and the trailer jerks, stretching down again. The bellows expands to its full length, stretching like a Slinky.
INSIDE,: Nick knows he has to hurry. He climbs down, bouncing off the built-in furniture, moving ever closer to Sarah. But Sarah slips and loses her grip, dropping a few feet. She gabs hold of the sink, the flowing water spraying her face.
EDDIE: Hang on hang on The foliage SMACKS the windshield, then clears suddenly, revealing the endangered trailers on the cliffside ahead of him. The jeep bounces through the deep footprints left by the rex and SKIDS to a halt.
OUTSIDE,: Eddie bolts out of the car and runs to the front trailer. He SHOUTS in through the broken front window.
EDDIE: HEY! HELLO?! IN THE REAR TRAILER, The three look up from their precarious positions.
MALCOLM: WE'RE IN HERE! GET SOME ROPE! Eddie turns and run back to the jeep. He grabs a coil of rope, secures one end around a tree, and hurries back to the IN THE REAR TRAILER, Eddie dashes over the mess in the front trailer and crawls out into the extended connector. He peers over the edge, down into the second trailer, and tosses the rope.
OUTSIDE,: Eddie turns and run back to the jeep. He grabs a coil of rope, secures one end around a tree, and hurries back to the IN THE REAR TRAILER, Eddie dashes over the mess in the front trailer and crawls out into the extended connector. He peers over the edge, down into the second trailer, and tosses the rope.
EDDIE: The rope falls through the center of the trailer, its end dangling all the way out the smashed rear window. But the trailer SHUDDERS, starting to move again.
SARAH: We're sliding!
EDDIE: Climbs up if you can!
OUTSIDE,: Eddie runs out of the trailer in time to see the wheels dragging forward through the mud as the weight of the dangling trailer pulls the whole thing toward the edge of the cliff. He runs for the jeep and grabs hold of the power winch on the front grill. Behind him, the trailer rolls closer to the edge of the cliff. Eddie races back to the trailer, pulling out a length of cable behind him. He runs up to the still-moving trailer, dives for its towing hook, the cable goes taut and he falls short. Just by six inches, but he's out of
EDDIE: Damn it!
OUTSIDE,: dirt and rocks pile up around the wheels and spill over the edge of the cliff. Eddie, back at the jeep, reels out more winch cable. He turns and races back to the trailer just as gravity starts to LIFT
MALCOLM: ( softly ) He looks at the other two. They glance around, then drop their heads. Sarah hears a SOUND in the distance.
SARAH: Oh, God. Now what? From the edge of the jungle, a cris-cross of flashlight beams moves toward them. But rather than the three or four that would signify their own group, there are nearly twenty of The HUNTERS, PETER LUDLOW is in the lead, ROLAND and AJAY with him. DIETER is there too, shepherding KELLY and DR. JUTTSON along in front of him. Malcolm sees Kelly, they call out to each other, and race together. Malcolm falls to his knees and hugs her as tightly as he possibly can.
MALCOLM: Are you all right?! Anything broken?
KELLY: I'm fine, I'm fine, I was scared, I thought you, are you okay?!
MALCOLM: I'm fine. I'm fine. Roland looks around, at the mess that was their base camp.
ROLAND: ( mostly to himself ) That's what you think.
LUDLOW: Trespassing, sabotage you could go to jail just for being here, did you know that?
SARAH: Don't start a legal argument with me, this island isn't your property, and neither are these animals! DR. JUTTSON has encountered DR. BURKE.
JUTTSON: What are you doing here, Burke? There's no TV cameras, what's the Dr. Juttson, you exist outside the classroom. I am amazed. Dieter continues to get in Nick's face.
BURKE: Dr. Juttson, you exist outside the classroom. I am amazed. Dieter continues to get in Nick's face.
NICK: Are you looking for a problem?
JUTTSON: ( an urgent whisper ) Everyone, keep your voices down!
ROLAND: Back off, Dieter.
JUTTSON: Listen to me, by moving the baby rex into our camp, we changed the adults' perceived territory!
LUDLOW: Their what?
SARAH: ( she understands ) Oh, God.
JUTTSON: That's why they persisted in destroying the trailers, they now feel they have to defend this entire area! We're not safe here.
LUDLOW: ( of Sarah and Nick ) Thanks to you people.
SARAH: Hey, we came here to observe, you came here to strip-mine the place! It's a looter mentality, all you care about is what you can take.
ROLAND: None of that matters. Our communications equipment's been destroyed. If your radio and satellite phone were in those trailers that went off the cliff, and I'm guessing by the look on his He points at Malcolm, who is still off to the side, sitting in stunned silence. Malcolm looks up and nods, slowly. The grimness of their situation sinks in. We are stuck here, ladies and gentlemen. And we're stuck together.
ROLAND: If we can't stay in the rex's territory, we have to move tonight.
SARAH: Move where? Our boat's not coming for two days, your airlift is waiting for an order you have no way to Ludlow refers to the charred and trampled satellite photographs of the island, which are still mostly legible.
LUDLOW: There's a communication center, here, in the old worker village. Hammond put in some kind of renewable power source replenishing. It may still work. If we could get there, we could send a radio call for the How far is the village?
NICK: How far is the village?
LUDLOW: I said if we could get there.
NICK: Well, how far is it?
LUDLOW: A day's walk, maybe more. That's not the problem.
ROLAND: What is?
LUDLOW: The velociraptors. Malcolm looks up sharply. Our infrareds show their nesting sites are concentrated in the island interior. That's why we planned on keeping to the outer rim. Malcolm shepherds Kelly away from the conversation and mutters something to her quietly in the background.
DIETER: What are velociraptors?
JUTTSON: Carnivores. Pack hunters. About six feet long, three or four hundred pounds, and very, very fast. Dieter brandishes his weapon.
DIETER: I think we can handle ourselves against them. Malcolm rejoins the conversation, alone. He keeps his voice No. I'm quite certain you can't.
MALCOLM: No. I'm quite certain you can't.
ROLAND: Look, we have two choices. We can hike back down to the lagoon, where we can sit for two days, in the open, next to a heavily used water source while we're waiting for your boat to arrive, or we can head for the village, where we might find some shelter and we can call for help.
MALCOLM: We'd never make it past the raptors. Trust me, I have some experience in this matter. Roland looks at him.
ROLAND: That may be. But you weren't with me at the time. Malcolm just shakes his head, then turns and walks back to Kelly. Roland turns to the others. Load up. Let's get this moveable feast underway.
MALCOLM: Damn it. He looks away as Kelly looks up at him, questioning. ROLAND falls into step with Malcolm and notices his limp.
ROLAND: You all right? Malcolm looks at him, then looks away without answering. Wrong question?
MALCOLM: You ever heard of Gambler's Ruin?
ROLAND: What's that?
MALCOLM: A statistical phenomenon. Says everything in the world goes in streaks. It's real, you see it everywhere in weather, in river flooding, in baseball, in blackjack, in stock markets. Once things go bad, they tend to stay bad. Bad things cluster. They go to hell Feeling a bit blue, are we? Malcolm glances at Kelly, who has taken a slightly faster pace and is a few steps ahead of them now.
ROLAND: Feeling a bit blue, are we? Malcolm glances at Kelly, who has taken a slightly faster pace and is a few steps ahead of them now.
MALCOLM: Just flawed. Very deeply flawed.
ROLAND: Why did you come here?
MALCOLM: So that others would know about this Why should they?
ROLAND: Why should they?
MALCOLM: Because it exists.
ROLAND: It'll still exit if they go on not knowing, won't it?
MALCOLM: Yes. And people will live in the absence of truth.
ROLAND: So the truth is more important to you than your life?
MALCOLM: ( lowers is voice ) I don't care about my life. But if I'd ever thought for a second that she would be in danger Roland follows his gaze forward, to Kelly, who's about ten yards ahead now.
ROLAND: She yours?
BEHIND HER,: Malcolm, unaware, continues with Roland.
ROLAND: Somewhere on this island, there exits the greatest predator that ever lived. And the second greatest predator must take him down.
MALCOLM: But why?
ROLAND: You remember that guy, about twenty years ago, I forget his name, but he climbed Everest without any oxygen, came down almost dead. And they asked him, "why did you go up there to die?" And he said "I didn't. I went up there to live."
MALCOLM: ( nods ) It's called self-testing. But in your case, it sounds more like self-destruction. A uniquely human characteristic. In fact, human beings destroy things so well that I sometimes think that's our function. Maybe every few sons, some animal comes along that kills off the rest of the world, clears the decks, and lets evolution proceed to his next phase. Maybe death and destruction are our job, maybe we're supposed to destroy ourselves and every other living thing that- Every person on the trail within earshot has stopped and is staring at Malcolm, shaken by his words. Roland grabs Malcolm by the shirt collar and pulls him close, GROWLING in his ear.
ROLAND: Tell you what. You can see whatever you want to, to me, but you will not spew any more nihilist rants at anyone else in the group. I'm fighting panic, and you push the wrong buttons. Understand? Malcolm just blinks. This guy's in charge.
KELLY: I don't think my dad doesn't think we're going to make it. Sarah looks at her.
SARAH: Your dad is wrong. About a lot more than he knows. She puts an arm around her. Kelly looks up at her, grateful. The long march continues.
NICK: I think you should call a break.
ROLAND: Another half hour.
NICK: Some of them won't make another half hour. We didn't come this far to start dropping in the middle of the jungle. If you don't call it, I Roland looks at him, steely, then SHOUTS to the group.
ROLAND: FIVE MINUTES BREAK! Immediately, the marchers drop where they stood, absolutely AT THE REAR OF THE GROUP, DRS. BURKE and JUTTSON are bickering.
JUTTSON: I can't believe you're still angry about that.
BURKE: You know, it's very easy to criticize the first person who studies No, it's easy to criticize sloppy research and hasty conclusions.
JUTTSON: No, it's easy to criticize sloppy research and hasty conclusions.
NEARBY,: MALCOLM checks Nick's bag of videotapes, making sure they're still dry and undamaged. Sarah comes up, watching him.
SARAH: You know, even if we do get those tapes back, people are going to say it's just another hoax. Ian Malcolm's alien autopsy.
MALCOLM: Maybe. Maybe not.
SARAH: Ian, they will misplace our evidence, shoot holes in our testimony, and say some special effects genius created the animals. The only way people will ever believe that dinosaurs exist is if you dump a T-rex in the middle of times Square. He doesn't look at her. She sits down beside her. There's something more important that you should be thinking about instead.
BEHIND THEM,: Dr. Burke, furious, has stalked away from Juttson and sits down on a rock. H does a double take, noticing something behind the rock. He leans over and picks it up. It's an oval shape about eight inches long, with a pebbled exterior. A dinosaur egg. Burke's face lights up, fascinated, and he carefully pieces the egg in a satchel he wears over one shoulder.
DIETER: Wait here for me, would ya Carter? He steps off the path, into the jungle. But as we come around the front of Carter, we see he's wearing a Walkman, the headphone BLARING tinnily in his ears. And he didn't hear a word.
DIETER: It's not polite to He pulls the steel rod out of a loop in his belt and touches it to the compy's back. The blue bolt of electricity CRACKS and dances over the compy's body and it convulses in pain. sneak up on people. The wounded compsognathus scurries back into the jungle, whimpering. Dieter clambers through the foliage ten or twelve paces, pushes aside two large palm fronds, and steps out more jungle. He stops, puzzled, not sure if he went back or forward. He looks behind him. He pauses, recalculating the path he took coming into the jungle, MUTTERING to himself, gesturing with his hands, retracing his steps. He adjusts his angle slightly to the right and heads off in that direction. But after five or six hard-fought steps, he stops again. Still nothing but jungle.
DIETER: HEY! CARTER! YELL OR SOMETHING, I GOT TURNED AROUND IN HERE! ON THE TRAIL, Dieter's cries are faint, but audible. The only Marchers hear enough to hear him is CARTER, but the Walkman is blaring in his ears. .Carter. me?.
DIETER: Easy wait one more sec- As one, the compys SHRIEK and hurl themselves forward, covering Dieter's body. Their teeth and claws FLASH as they each try to grab a scrap of his flesh, tearing savagely. Dieter SCREAMS and flails, waving his arms and legs wildly. Some of the tiny animals lose their grip and sail off, SMASHING into trees or the ground. But dozens of others hang on, and Dieter falls over backwards, now lying on his back on the ground. Hysterical, he fights like hell to get to his feet, SCREAMING, shaking, swatting the compys loose. He spins, and that tactic seems to work, as the compys themselves begin to panic and drop off of him. But he also loses his grip on his weapon, which goes flying, landing in the thick foliage five or six feet from him. Losing the attack, the compys turn and dart away en masse, stopping ten yards away from him. But they turn and regroup, facing him in a line, hopping up and down, CHIRPING and SHRIEKING. Dieter bounds into the foliage, looking for his gun. But the compys follow him in and he's forced to flee, abandoning his lost weapon. Ten feet on, he stops, knowing he's screwed without the gun. He turns to face the pursuing compys. They stop. Dieter charges them, SHOUTING, waving his arms. The compys turn and run. Dieter stops. The compys stop. They stare back at him. There is a moment of quiet, then they start to hop again, CHIRPING and
ROLAND: Break's over, move on! The exhausted marchers drag themselves back to their feet and start to march again. At the rear of the group, someone taps Carter, who is still listening to his music. Carter gets up, hoists his backpack, and marches away. Behind him, Dieter's pack is left, forgotten, on the jungle EXT. DEEP IN THE JUNGLE - DAY DIETER stumbles along, exhausted. He reaches the edge of a stream that runs under the foliage, and his feet slip on the stones. He falls, into the rocky stream. Behind him, the army of compys pours over the little hill he just crested. They disappear for a moment, down an incline And then swarm over his body. In a frenzy of splashing, Dieter shrugs them off and crawls away, through the stream. He gets to his feet but falls again, this time over a log. A geyser of water splashes up in the air behind the log as Dieter drops out of sight. The compys leap over the log and disappear from view too, throwing up their own splashes of water. SCREECHING, CHIRPING, and the sound of TEARING flesh mixes with Dieter's
ROLAND: How long ago was this?
CARTER: Seven, eight minutes. Roland looks at them, thinking. Finally:
ROLAND: Then he's dead. Nobody tells the little girl. Last thing we need is screaming hysterics. He turns and heads back to the front of the column.
SARAH: We have to send someone to look for You go if you like, but we're not waiting for you. MOVE IT OUT!! They look at each other, appalled, but the column starts to move. Numbed, shocked, but left with no choice, they move on, one by one.
ROLAND: You go if you like, but we're not waiting for you. MOVE IT OUT!! They look at each other, appalled, but the column starts to move. Numbed, shocked, but left with no choice, they move on, one by one.
MALCOLM: You okay? She doesn't look at him, just gets up and walks away, going to sit over next to SARAH. Malcolm watches, pained, but Sarah puts an arm around her and makes a "she's okay" gesture to Malcolm.
ROLAND: Looks like the worker village is down in there, about a mile and a half northeast from the base of these MALCOLM is next to him.
MALCOLM: There must be a game trail, some kind of path that goes down there. Roland looks around at the exhausted MARCHERS.
ROLAND: They'll have to rest before we look for it. Eat. Sleep. Two hours. Then we hit it.
SARAH: There you are. Your dad's looking for you.
KELLY: I doubt that. Sarah takes off her outer shirt and hangs it over a bar to dry the broad red smear across its front.
SARAH: Oh, come on. Go talk to him.
KELLY: Why? He likes to be alone. I can stay with you.
ROLAND: You hear something?
AJAY: No. I feel something. Roland looks at him. This isn't so good. He looks out at the shifting jungle. He notices a thin plume of smoke rising up over the trees just barely outside the edge of camp.
ROLAND: Oh, no.
ROLAND: ( hisses )
BMBB!: Roland, Ajay, and Burke all freeze. What was that?
BMBB!: AT THE COCKING FIRE, Ajay turns and trots away a few steps, then stops cold, staring down at the ground.
ROLAND: Get my weapon. Ajay turns and trots away a few steps, then stops cold, staring down at the ground.
BMBB!: A recent rain has all left puddles scattered around the camp, and impact tremors now create ripples in the puddles concentric circles spreading to the outer edges.
BMBB!: IN SARAH'S TENT, Sarah and Kelly are frantically sealing up any opened food into Ziploc bags.
BMBB!: Now they leap into Sarah's sleeping bag, to seal themselves, and draw the zipper up, all the way around. Outside, the silhouette of the rex's head passes by the tent. Sarah works faster, her fingers struggling to close the last few inches, but the rex head pokes through the flap of the tent. It sniffs, SNORTING the air in and out. It looks around the It sniffs Sarah's hanging shirt, the one that is stained with the blood of the baby tyrannosaur. The adult tyrannosaur GURGLES again, COOING and cocking its head curiously. In the sleeping bag, Sarah and Kelly's eyes are barely visible, wide in panic. The rex sniffs and nudges the bag, trying to figure out what this thing is. It rolls the bag over once, decides it's uninteresting, and then rises, straights up taking the whole tent with it! The stakes pop out of the ground as the tent rises high up into the air and flutters away, leaving the sleeping bag fully exposed on the ground beneath it.
ROLAND: FOR CHRIST'S SAKE, DON'T RUN! But they ignore him, sweeping him up in the wave of flushed prey that pours across the campsite. Some toss random and ill-aimed GUNSHOTS back at the rexes.
MALCOLM: KELLY? KEEEEELLLY?! But he can't see her.
ROLAND: MALCOLM! OVER HERE! Malcolm runs over and hurls himself at the rock face, scrambling to climb up the smooth, steep boulders. Behind him, one of the rexes spots him and lunges across the camp toward him.
FASTER!!: Malcolm gives it everything he's got, clawing his way up the rock face and rex draws closer and pounces at his legs and Roland reaches down, grabs Malcolm by the hair and pulls him up, out of the rex's grasp. The rex falls short, but he's close enough that we can hear his teeth SNAP together, closing around nothing but air. It turns, sees easier prey in the fleeing Hunters, and takes off after them. Malcolm lands on top of the rock ledge with a CRUNCH. Roland unceremoniously dumps a fistful of hair in his lap.
MALCOLM: ( shouting )
MALCOLM: I gotta get down there!
NICK: SARAH KELLY COME HERE! He grabs each of them and hauls them forward, running straight at the waterfall. Apparently, he intends to jump right into the rock, and he's dragging them along with him.
SARAH: WHAT ARE YOU- The three of them spring right at the waterfall and disappear THROUGH the water. DR. BURKE, fleeing along with everyone else, is watching as they vanish.
NICK: The three of them spring right at the waterfall and disappear THROUGH the water. DR. BURKE, fleeing along with everyone else, is watching as they vanish.
JUMP!: The three of them spring right at the waterfall and disappear THROUGH the water. DR. BURKE, fleeing along with everyone else, is watching as they vanish.
NICK: Shhhh. shhhh. With an enormous SPLASH, something bursts through the cascading water and crashes into them. Dr. Burke.
BURKE: Get out of the way! He pulls his way up against the far wall, as far away from the water as he can. FOOOOM! Now another shape bursts through the watery curtain. A Tyrannosaur head. Burke gave away the hiding spot. The four SCREAM as the rex's jaws SNAP left and right, searching for them, falling just inches short. They squeeze as far back against the wall as they can get. The rex can't quite get its head all the way through the so it uses its tongue. A long, dark blue shape slithers out of its mouth and touches the humans, trying to wrap around them, to pull them out of the cave. Burke, blind with panic, forces himself even further into the cave, which pushes Kelly further out.
SARAH: STOP IT YOU'RE PUSHED HER OUT STOP But Burke doesn't listen, throwing elbows to make room for himself. His movements dislodge a portion of muddy earth, and a flurry of enormous cockroaches, eight or nine inches long each, pour out of the wall and swarm over his face and neck. Burke SCREAMS and instinctively leaps away, toward the flowing And that's all the leverage the rex needs. It curls its tongue, wrapping Burke up in it and pulling him between its teeth. SCREAMING hideously, he is dragged out, through the waterfall, and disappears. Sarah, Nick, and Kelly stare in horror as the white screen of water turn pink.
IT!: But Burke doesn't listen, throwing elbows to make room for himself. His movements dislodge a portion of muddy earth, and a flurry of enormous cockroaches, eight or nine inches long each, pour out of the wall and swarm over his face and neck. Burke SCREAMS and instinctively leaps away, toward the flowing And that's all the leverage the rex needs. It curls its tongue, wrapping Burke up in it and pulling him between its teeth. SCREAMING hideously, he is dragged out, through the waterfall, and disappears. Sarah, Nick, and Kelly stare in horror as the white screen of water turn pink.
ROLAND: She's okay! They'll stay in there, she's okay!
AWAY: NO! DON'T GO INTO THE LONG GRASS! Not in the frenzy, they ignore him. Behind Ajay, the enormous shadows of the two pursuing tyrannosaurs stop as well, holding up at the edge of the jungle. Ajay, torn between a sense of responsibility and his better judgement, opts for the former and races into the grass after the other Hunters, waving his arms.
ROLAND: Elephant grass!
HUNTER: They gave up! They're not chasing There are CHEERS, SIGHS OF relief. In the distance, AJAY'S VOICE can be heard, faintly calling to them to come back. Up on the rock in the distance, they can see Roland, waving his arms madly. But in the giddiness of their escape, they pay it no mind. They continue plowing into the high grass, anything to get further away from the tyrannosaurs.
ROLAND: How many rounds did you find for that Four, counting the one in the Don't let it out of your hands again. Can the kid walk?
MALCOLM: Four, counting the one in the Don't let it out of your hands again. Can the kid walk?
ROLAND: Don't let it out of your hands again. Can the kid walk?
SARAH: Ask her.
ROLAND: Can the kid walk?
KELLY: I can. I can walk. While he addresses the group, Roland straps on one of the servo-lights, the shoulder-mounted flashlights that follow your gaze.
ROLAND: We're going to find a path down into the interior of the island. Load up whatever you think you need, and I mean need. If you can't carry it indefinitely, don't bring it. We'll hit the worker village in a couple hours and be out of here before dawn.
LUDLOW: What is that?
ROLAND: Ludlow doesn't ask.
SARAH: God help us. They're standing in a flat, sandy area lined with boulders at the sides. The flat area stretches fifty yards from side to side and as far as they can see ahead. But that's not what amazes them so. Everywhere, the sand is dotted with dinosaur skeletons. Some are huge, apatosaurs, sixty feet from head to tail tip. Others are smaller, herbivores of many different kinds. The more intact skeletons lie on their sides, their ribcages arcs of pale bone. but just as many have been ripped apart, bits of carcass tossed in every direction.
NICK: I do not feel lucky.
ROLAND: Keep moving. They march on, tiny figures moving among the mountainous skeletons by the light of the full moon. Roland notices one carcass in particular, a recent kill. It's an enormous HADROSAUR with fresh bites taken out of it. He bends down, studying the soft earth around it for FURTHER ON, Malcolm looks up, noticing the bony shapes around them, which fall in heavy shadows like cell bars, seem to be changing. He turns, and his servo-light shines on the bones. But they're not bones any more at all, they're pipes, the animal graveyard now given over to the lifeless skeletons of manmade objects twisted, rotting machinery.
FURTHER ON,: Malcolm looks up, noticing the bony shapes around them, which fall in heavy shadows like cell bars, seem to be changing. He turns, and his servo-light shines on the bones. But they're not bones any more at all, they're pipes, the animal graveyard now given over to the lifeless skeletons of manmade objects twisted, rotting machinery.
LUDLOW: We made it! They hurry over a small rise
MALCOLM: The jungle. It's always ready to Roland catches up and looks at Ludlow.
ROLAND: Where's the power and radio setup?
LUDLOW: Operations building. Far end of the A light rain falls as they start down the street, carefully, silently, Roland and Malcolm with their weapons at the ready. They pass the skeleton of a fallen water tower. An empty gas station, its vine-snarled pumps now useless. The only sound is the low mechanical HUM of the servo-lights as they follow the group's gazes obediently. Every few feet, the group encounters strange, grayish lumps that lies in random places in the middle of the street. Malcolm, curious, stops and taps one of them. It's a rock-hard. Nick looks over his shoulder.
NICK: What are they?
MALCOLM: What are they?
NICK: What are they?
MALCOLM: I don't know. Finally, they reach the operation building, at the far end of the town.
LUDLOW: The radio rig is inside. It runs directly from the geothermal generator, so power shouldn't be a He pulls out his canteen. Ludlow watches as he screws the top off, moves toward the building, and starts splashing the contents on the outside of it. The rest of the group just stares at him.
ROLAND: He pulls out his canteen. Ludlow watches as he screws the top off, moves toward the building, and starts splashing the contents on the outside of it. The rest of the group just stares at him.
MALCOLM: What's he got in there?
LUDLOW: Don't ask me. The guy's completely out to lunch.
SARAH: Don't ask me. The guy's completely out to lunch.
LUDLOW: Don't ask me. The guy's completely out to lunch.
NICK: What in God's name would he want Roland rejoins them.
ROLAND: Tyrannosaur urine. I don't want anything to do with it, and neither does any other animal on this island. This building is now demarcated as the rex's territory. As long as you stay in that building, you'll all be safe until the helicopter comes. He drops his pack, swings his gun off his shoulder, and checks the load. Dr. Juttson looks fearful.
JUTTSON: Where are you going?
ROLAND: After the rex. I saw a fresh kill back in the valley with tyrannosaur tracks all around it. If I'm not back in time, don't wait for me.
SARAH: You've got to be kidding.
ROLAND: Runs against my nature to hole up in a cave and wait.
LUDLOW: Do you think the rex might have the infant with it?
ROLAND: Ludlow takes off his hat and turns to Nick.
LUDLOW: You know how to work a radio, don't You're going too?
SARAH: You're going too?
LUDLOW: I lost everything I came after on this trip, but one T-rex in one theme park could single-handedly bail InGen out of Chapter 11. He takes a slip of paper from the brim of his hat and hands it to Nick. This is the broadcast frequency. ID yourself as "Harvest Leader." You know what to tell 'em.
MALCOLM: You gentlemen feel you have to do this now?
ROLAND: Now's the perfect time. The animal just fed, so it won't stalk us for food. Predators don't hurt when they're not hungry. Ludlow double checks the clip on his semi-automatic rifle
NICK: and SMACKS it back into the belly of the gun.
NICK: ( into microphone ) CQ, CQ. This is InGen Operation Harvest Leader to Harvest Base. Come in, please. The remaining SURVIVORS, minus Ludlow and Roland, shine their flashlights around the dusty, vine-hung interior of the communications room. On the wall a row of chrome letters says "We Make The Future," but the words are obscured by a tangle of vines. Mushrooms and fungi sprout from the carpet. On one wall, there is a mural of what the completed Jurassic Park would have looked like. Big hotels, Ford Explorers with tourists leaning out the windows taking pictures, big crowds at the fences around the animal exhibits. But none of it came true, and now even the mural is runny and dust-covered. There is a pause, filed only with radio static. Sarah looks at Nick tensely, waiting. Finally, a VOICE comes over the radio, clean as can be. Go ahead, Harvest Leader. They all breath a sign of relief.
LUDLOW: We're downwind. Good. Roland darts a contemptuous look at him. He puts a finger to his lips, gesturing for silence, then steps up, onto the shore. Ludlow follows. They creep forward, toward the sounds. They round the bend and Roland hits his belly, edging up over a small rise. Over the rise, he sees the TYRANNOSAUR, about a hundred yards ahead. It's stooped over the stream bed, drinking. Like a bird, it dips its head in the water and then straightens up, to let the water fall down its throat. A dozen COMPYS are at the water as well, drinking. Roland gently FLICKS the safety on his gun to "off." Ludlow edges toward the cover of a low-hanging branch. As he puts his weight on one knee, it presses down hard on the middle of a small stick, which CRACKS in half. Roland turns, eyes blazing. Out in the open, the tyrannosaur snaps its head sharply as well, staring in the direction of the sound. But since Roland's own head is turned, he doesn't see the dinosaur's reaction. Roland holds a warning finger out to Ludlow. Roland turns his head back. The tyrannosaur is gone.
FURTHER ON,: the trail of three-toed tyrannosaur footprints stops abruptly. Roland stops too, gesturing for Ludlow to freeze behind him. Roland glances both ways, looking for any sign of the track. To the right, the ground gives way to hard black volcanic rock. A short distance behind them, the rock is solid, a massive, green, pebbled boulder ten feet high. Roland frowns and WHISPERS in Ludlow's ear again.
ROLAND: We took to the rock.
LUDLOW: In front of Roland, a palm frond sways gently in the night breeze. Roland's eyes widen. He pulls out another pinch of campfire ash and releases it on the wind. This time, the ash blows off, straight away from him.
ROLAND: Wind shift. They freeze, terrified. Behind them, the enormous green pebbled boulder opens an eye. That's no boulder, that's the MALE TYRANNOSAUR, standing rock-solid still, its natural camouflage blending into the surrounding foliage perfectly. Very slowly and almost silently, the rex brings its head all the way around until it is staring directly down at them from about ten feet away. Roland and Ludlow stand frozen, their back to the rex, unaware of its presence. Until it exhales. The soft SNORT of its breath isn't quite audible, but it brushes the hair on the backs of their necks ever so slightly. Their hearts drop into their stomachs. Ludlow speaks, his voice a queasy HISS.
LUDLOW: It's. behind. us.
ROLAND: ( the very softest whisper ) It's just fed. It won't attack unless it's threatened. Don't move. As the rex silently cocks its head, sizing up the danger from these intruders, it breathes again. A few strands of Ludlow's hair flap in the exhalation. He closes his eyes, near tears. He can't take it. His eyes dart, glancing down at the weapon he holds in his hands. Unfortunately, it's extended in front of him, away from the rex. He risks another HISS.
LUDLOW: If I don't move, I can't shoot it.
ROLAND: Let it go, Peter. The animal won. Behind them, the rex appears satisfied. It starts to swing its massive head around, back toward the jungle. It lifts one great leg and takes a step into the trees. Roland signs and closes his eyes, relieved. But Ludlow seizes the opportunity. He whips his weapon around and drops to one knee.
NO!: The rex is infinitely quicker. Ludlow just has time to squeeze off a short burst of semi-automatic gunfire when the animal whirls, takes one elegant step forward, and POUNCES. Ludlow's bullets rip harmlessly through the foliage between the rex's legs as its big head snaps forward and comes down, jaws wide. They close around Ludlow's body, lift his straight up into the air, and toss him once, readjusting their grip so it is firmly around his midsection. The whole combination of movements takes but half a second. By the time Roland turns around, the animal has pivoted and darted back into the jungle, carrying Ludlow, still SCREAMING and writhing in its mouth. Roland raises his gun, to draw a bead on the animal, but through the shivering trees, he can only see that the tyrannosaur is gone.
KELLY: What's going on?! Above them, the rotting wooden roof of the building starts to actually tear away, chunks of moldy timber flying up into the night. They look up, a deafening ROAR fills the room and a helicopter's searchlight floods in! As the chopper dips lower, looking for a place to land, the violent prop wash rips away huge chunks of the roof over their INT. HELICOPTER - NIGHT Up above the operations building, the helicopter circles. The roof of the building is all arches and rotten timber, impossible to land open. Below, the PILOTS see the SURVIVORS through the torn roof of the building. They wave frantically, their flashlight beams piercing the night sky.
PILOT: There they are! The Co-Pilot scans the street below, but it's choked with overturned cars and fallen trees.
PILOT: Check the other buildings! The Co-Pilot nods and they peel off, swooping over the rest of the village. At the far end of the street, the Co-Pilot brings the searchlight to bear on the large, flat roof of a three story The Pilot gives him a thumbs-up.
MALCOLM: There it is! Happily, the group double-times it down the street, headed for the chopper. Again, those strange rock formations are everywhere. Some seem to be on the sides of buildings, as if they once dripped there and then turned to stone. This time Sarah pauses at one that is dripping over to the side of a car like solidified lava. Her face falls as a thought occurs to her.
SARAH: Ian. It's guano.
MALCOLM: These formations. They're dried
SARAH: These formations. They're dried
MALCOLM: A VELOCIRAPTORS jumps onto a fallen tree trunk behind them. They don't see it.
NICK: Who cares? Let's go! Unaware of the raptor's presence, they resume their trot toward the helicopter. Behind them, the raptor crouches and SNARLS, but the sound is lost under the WHINE of the helicopter's engines. It springs, covering the distance between them quickly. The animal SLAMS into JUTTSON, the last person in the group, and takes him down. Juttson is thrown forward, into the others, who fall like dominoes. Juttson SCREAMS, his voice an unnatural, high-pitched SQUEAL, as the raptor flips him over and lowers its jaws into him. Sarah looks up, panicked. Her eyes widen at the sight of a SECOND RAPTOR, this one running straight at hr at top speed. She buries her face in the dirt, covering her head with her and the raptor's foot SLAMS into the ground between her legs as it bounds over her and dives onto Juttson, joining the first raptor in the kill. Panicked, the group scatters in all directions. Kelly jumps up and scrambles into the middle of the street, where she hits the dirt and crawls under a fallen shed in the middle of the Malcolm rolls over to the space where Kelly was, but she's gone now. He looks around frantically.
MALCOLM: Kelly?! KELLY?! Sarah rolls onto her feet and sprints toward the building nearest her. Behind her, a THIRD RAPTOR gives chase, bounding after her with horrifying speed. Sarah runs flat-out, but her speed is nothing compared to the raptor's, and it gains on her rapidly. The walls of a structure of some kind close in around Sarah, and as she leaps across a leather seat and SLAMS a door behind her, we realize she's crawled into the back seat of an abandoned car. But the car door is thin protection against the charging raptor, which SLAMS into the window, head first. The window spinderwebs, but does not yield. The raptor crumples to the Sarah looks up, through a three inch hole in the middle of the web. The raptor leaps back to its feet and plunges its nose into the tiny hole, thrashing, widening it. Sarah SCREAMS and the animal forces its entire head through the hole, SNAPPING its jaws just short of her face. She hurls herself over the seat and into the front as the animal penetrates even further into the car, but its torso will not fit through the window opening. It pulls away. In the front seat, Sarah gets some very bad news. There's no windshield. The raptor springs up onto the hood, its claws CLATTERING on the sheet metal, and tosses its body through the opening just as Sarah hurls herself out the door. While the raptor struggles to right itself in the front seat, Sarah runs to the nearest building, ducks inside, and SLAMS the heavy wooden EXT. GAS STATION - NIGHT MALCOLM races between the idled gas pumps and into the gas station building, closing the door behind him. A moment later, a raptor bounds after him, SLAMMING into the door. Meeting resistance, it bounces off, notices the plate glass window next to the door, and pounces at that. The window SHATTERS and the raptor clings to the ledge, staring inside, its tail hanging out. Just as it gets inside, Malcolm opens the door and comes back out, keeping the place of wall between them. He pulls the Lindstradt rifle off his back and tries to take aim but the raptor whirls and springs, forcing him back inside, through the door again. Willing to play along, the raptor turns and jumps through the window again.
NICK: Come on!
MALCOLM: Where's Kelly?
NICK: She's with Sarah! They race off, down the street.
INSIDE,: Sarah runs to the opposite wall, falls to her knees, and starts digging a tunnel of her own, clawing frantically at the ganging tools always and CLANKS as it tears at the earth below Sarah digs faster. So does the raptor. With about eight inches of space under the wall, Sarah grabs hold of the bottom of one of the plans and pries it up as hard as she can. It snaps off with a loud CRACK. At the door, the raptor stops digging. It's silent for a Sarah has a good foot and a half of space under her wall now. She starts to lower her body into it
SIDE!: Sarah falls back, SCREAMING, leaps to her feet, and jumps up, grabbing hold of one of the catwalks above. She starts to climb, up, anywhere up, as the RAPTOR now squirms and thrashes its way inside, coming in through her hole. Sarah climbs, hauling herself up, leaping from one catwalk to The raptor leaps up onto a catwalk as well and follows her.
MALCOLM: We can't stay in here!
NICK: We're sure as hell not going back out This is single-wall construction! It's just a shack!
MALCOLM: This is single-wall construction! It's just a shack!
NICK: It'll hold!
MALCOLM: For sixty seconds, maybe! Look at You could- With a CRASH, the wood SPRINTERS around the lock and the door swings open violently. Malcolm is thrown aside, landing hard on the floor. A VELOCIRAPTOR stands HISSING in the doorway. Nick throws his weight against the door. SLAMMING it hard against the raptor. Malcolm rolls over and paws the gun off his back. SLAM! The raptor charges the door again, this time BLASTING it off its hinges, knocking Nick to the floor beneath it. The raptor turns and SNARLS at Malcolm. Malcolm swings the gun around the raptor lunges at him Malcolm's finger closes on the trigger and the raptor lands on top of him. The weight of the animal CRUSHES him into the floor, but the gun barrel now stands between them. The raptor CHOMPS down hard on the barrel, its teeth GRINDING on the metal, and SNAPS its head, to tear it from Malcolm's hands. Malcolm pulls the trigger. The raptor's eyes pop wide as the dart SLAMS into the back of its throat. It makes a GURGLING sound, then convulses violently and rolls off of Malcolm, yanking the gun from his hands as it falls and dies. Nick scrambles out from under the door. Malcolm tries to wrench the gun from the raptor's clenched jaws, but it won't Head for the roof!
NICK: ( helping him out ) Head for the roof!
MALCOLM: I have to find Kelly!
NICK: I think she's with Sarah!
MALCOLM: DAMN IT, BE SURE!! EXT. MAIN STREET - NIGHT KELLY remains huddled under the fallen shed, trembling with fear. She holds her breath and freezes, as just outside, only two feet from where she's hiding a RAPTOR'S FEET pick their way past her, down the middle of the street. Kelly closes her eyes and suppresses a scream.
MALCOLM: It's too wide! Nick looks around, desperate. A fallen power pole leans against the building they're standing on, its lines gone Help me push this! Malcolm understands. He and Nick throw a shoulder into the pole and give it a mighty push, tipping it over in the other direction. One good hard shove and it falls to the far building, THUDDING against it solidly. Its power lines are not taut, a lifeline from this rooftop to the next. Nick grabs hold and starts to pull himself across the gap, hand over hand. Behind them, the door of the building SPLINTERS and CRASHES open as a raptor throws all its weight into it. Malcolm leaps onto the power line without hesitation and starts pulling himself across. But even with the door wide open, the raptor on the other side hesitates. It SNARLS and backs away, refusing to come out onto the roof.
NICK: Help me push this! Malcolm understands. He and Nick throw a shoulder into the pole and give it a mighty push, tipping it over in the other direction. One good hard shove and it falls to the far building, THUDDING against it solidly. Its power lines are not taut, a lifeline from this rooftop to the next. Nick grabs hold and starts to pull himself across the gap, hand over hand. Behind them, the door of the building SPLINTERS and CRASHES open as a raptor throws all its weight into it. Malcolm leaps onto the power line without hesitation and starts pulling himself across. But even with the door wide open, the raptor on the other side hesitates. It SNARLS and backs away, refusing to come out onto the roof.
NICK: It's afraid to come onto the roof! Malcolm looks around, at the rooftop. Strange bits of scrap and debris seem to have been arranged there, in an odd, concentric pattern.
MALCOLM: Something's wrong.
NICK: Look! Sarah! He points to the roof of the kilm house, in the distance. Malcolm turns, and sees SARAH crawling across the tile. His face turns white.
MALCOLM: SHE'S ALONE!! EXT. KILM HOUSE ROOF - NIGHT SARAH has problems. Still on top of the kilm house, she reaches the edge and pushes off the roof, leaping to the roof of the next building. She lands at the peak of the intersection of the two sides of sloping roof. As she pulls herself up a RAPTOR appears on the rooftop behind her. In full stride, it leaps, sails over her, and lands on the roof ahead of her. Sarah swings to her left and starts to crawl down the slope, away from the raptor. Suddenly the roof board under her SPRINTERS and CRACKS under her weight. The whole section pulls up and starts to slide off the roof. Sarah, clinging to it, rides the roof planks down, away from the raptor. She looks over her shoulder, down and sees ANOTHER RAPTOR, waiting for her on the roof of the building below. Sarah quickly rolls off the sliding section of roof, which keeps sliding, falling. The raptor below jumps up, just in time to get WHACKED in the head by the falling roof section. Sarah tries to cling to the Spanish tile roof, fingers and nails slipping on the slick ceramic surface. She slides all the way to the edge, grabs hold of the gutter, and dangles there, suspended above one raptor and trapped below another. The raptor above works its way down. The one below leaps up, at her dangling legs. She has left them in time with its jumps, to avoid losing her feet. This can't go on for long. Desperate, she pulls one of the Spanish tiles up from the roof and hurls it at the raptor below. It hits the animal in the head, for all the good that does. But Sarah keeps on, pulling and throwing more tiles. She edges to the right, toward a fresh supply. The raptor above edges even closer, claws CLICKING on the slick roof. Something interesting is happening. As Sarah pulls the loose tiles free, the ones above slide down, to take their place. Sarah sees this and pulls more free, knocking them out of the way as fast as she can. Suddenly an avalanche of loose tiles breaks loose and the footing underneath the raptor above disintegrates. The animal's feet flail and grasp, it slides towards the edge amid the tumbling tiles. Sarah, seeing it coming, swings in close to the building, hugging it as closely as she can. The raptor falls off the roof, right past her and CRUNCHES into the raptor below. Both animals SNARK and attack one another. Now Sarah, her grip exhausted, falls too, landing right next to the enraged animals. They fight and roll, RIGHT OVER HER. She GROANS and hugs the wood below her, the raptors continue to thrash and bite, they roll back, toward her, she rolls out of their way and plunges through a hole in the roof.
SHE'S ALONE!!: CUT TO: EXT. KILM HOUSE ROOF - NIGHT SARAH has problems. Still on top of the kilm house, she reaches the edge and pushes off the roof, leaping to the roof of the next building. She lands at the peak of the intersection of the two sides of sloping roof. As she pulls herself up a RAPTOR appears on the rooftop behind her. In full stride, it leaps, sails over her, and lands on the roof ahead of her. Sarah swings to her left and starts to crawl down the slope, away from the raptor. Suddenly the roof board under her SPRINTERS and CRACKS under her weight. The whole section pulls up and starts to slide off the roof. Sarah, clinging to it, rides the roof planks down, away from the raptor. She looks over her shoulder, down and sees ANOTHER RAPTOR, waiting for her on the roof of the building below. Sarah quickly rolls off the sliding section of roof, which keeps sliding, falling. The raptor below jumps up, just in time to get WHACKED in the head by the falling roof section. Sarah tries to cling to the Spanish tile roof, fingers and nails slipping on the slick ceramic surface. She slides all the way to the edge, grabs hold of the gutter, and dangles there, suspended above one raptor and trapped below another. The raptor above works its way down. The one below leaps up, at her dangling legs. She has left them in time with its jumps, to avoid losing her feet. This can't go on for long. Desperate, she pulls one of the Spanish tiles up from the roof and hurls it at the raptor below. It hits the animal in the head, for all the good that does. But Sarah keeps on, pulling and throwing more tiles. She edges to the right, toward a fresh supply. The raptor above edges even closer, claws CLICKING on the slick roof. Something interesting is happening. As Sarah pulls the loose tiles free, the ones above slide down, to take their place. Sarah sees this and pulls more free, knocking them out of the way as fast as she can. Suddenly an avalanche of loose tiles breaks loose and the footing underneath the raptor above disintegrates. The animal's feet flail and grasp, it slides towards the edge amid the tumbling tiles. Sarah, seeing it coming, swings in close to the building, hugging it as closely as she can. The raptor falls off the roof, right past her and CRUNCHES into the raptor below. Both animals SNARK and attack one another. Now Sarah, her grip exhausted, falls too, landing right next to the enraged animals. They fight and roll, RIGHT OVER HER. She GROANS and hugs the wood below her, the raptors continue to thrash and bite, they roll back, toward her, she rolls out of their way and plunges through a hole in the roof.
MALCOLM: Kelly! KELLY!
KELLY: Come on! He grabs her by the hand and they take off down the street.
MALCOLM: Come on! He grabs her by the hand and they take off down the street.
NICK: Where's Kelly?
SARAH: Where's Ian? Eyes wide with panic, they both turn and look down at the street below, where they see KELLY and MALCOLM, racing at top speed down the middle of the street
MALCOLM: Kelly leaps ahead of him and grabs hold of one of the poles, pulling herself neatly up to her feet and reaching for the next one. Malcolm stretches and makes the same effort, but for him it's much harder. Below them, the raptor springs and SLAMS into the struts, shaking the whole structure. It pulls itself up. Higher up, Kelly climbs fast, hands gliding over the poles. She breaks out into the open, where a long, narrow pole runs on a slight incline up to the roof. She scampers across it, running the balance beam. She reaches the other side, on a ledge below the roofline, and looks back. Malcolm is at the other end, hesitating, drained, breathing hard.
CLIMB!: Kelly leaps ahead of him and grabs hold of one of the poles, pulling herself neatly up to her feet and reaching for the next one. Malcolm stretches and makes the same effort, but for him it's much harder. Below them, the raptor springs and SLAMS into the struts, shaking the whole structure. It pulls itself up. Higher up, Kelly climbs fast, hands gliding over the poles. She breaks out into the open, where a long, narrow pole runs on a slight incline up to the roof. She scampers across it, running the balance beam. She reaches the other side, on a ledge below the roofline, and looks back. Malcolm is at the other end, hesitating, drained, breathing hard.
KELLY: DAD, COME ON! Below him, the raptor closes in. Malcolm sets out across the beam, his legs shaking. He places his feet carefully, he doesn't have nearly the balance Kelly did. The raptor draws closer.
FASTER!: Malcolm slips. One foot twists right off the bar and he spins, arms flailing, trying to regain his tenuous balance. But he overcompensates and his whole body, wrenches out from under him. He falls, the bar SMACKS him hard in the chest, knocking the wind out of him, and he drops, flipping right off the bar and bouncing painfully through the maze of bars below. He drops right past the pursuing velociraptor, CRUNCHING to a halt in a nest of bars ten feet off the ground, probably cracking a rib. Kelly SCREAMS from above him.
DAD!: She stares down in horror at her father. Wrenched in among the bars, Malcolm is helpless as the animal crouches only six feet above him now, with an open attack route. The animal SNARKS and goes into its pre-attack crouch. Up above, Kelly wipes the palms of her hands on her jeans and leaps out into space, grabbing hold of one of the bars. The raptor springs. Kelly spins around, over the top of the bar, and, at the very peak of her trajectory, she lets go. The raptor sails through down from above, feet first, SLAMMING both of them squarely into the raptor's side, sending it hurtling into space. She lands hard and awkwardly, CLANGING into the spidery scaffolding next to Malcolm as the raptor SMASHES to the ground below. But Kelly manages to hold on.
KELLY: GET UP! She grabs hold of Malcolm and pulls him to his feet.
GET UP!: She grabs hold of Malcolm and pulls him to his feet.
PILOT: LET'S GO LET'S GO LET'S GO!! Malcolm and Kelly scramble toward the helicopter. But at the opposite side of the roof, a RAPTOR claws its way over the edge as well. Malcolm sees it and they lunge for the helicopter, but the animal is far faster. It's only ten feet away, then five, they're surely done for this time, when
PILOT: HURRY! THE ROOF'S GIVING WAY! The skid dips even further, ripping right through the thatch-and-wood construction. Kelly, who had one foot in the helicopter, loses her balance as the roof caves in beneath her.
MALCOLM: She falls, SCREAMING, through the hole and down, into the building below.
KELLY!: She falls, SCREAMING, through the hole and down, into the building below.
MALCOLM: Kelly! I'm coming! Kelly climbs to her knees, but behind her, a large, dark shape is moving. Rising. Unfolding, in a way.
ROLAND: Give me a ladder!
MALCOLM: GO GO GO GO GOG GO! The helicopter lurches up a few feet, but it yanked to an abrupt stop. The engines WHINE, the chopper just hovers We're snagged on something! They loos down. BOTH PTERANODONS have come out through the hole in the roof and are clinging to the skids of the helicopter. They flap their gigantic wings in unison, and drag the helicopter off, into the air, away from the nest and let go. Freed, the helicopter gains altitude quickly.
PILOT: We're snagged on something! They loos down. BOTH PTERANODONS have come out through the hole in the roof and are clinging to the skids of the helicopter. They flap their gigantic wings in unison, and drag the helicopter off, into the air, away from the nest and let go. Freed, the helicopter gains altitude quickly.
PILOT: Hang on! If I tip it hard, I can cut 'em with the rotors!
SARAH: NO! Don't! They're not attacking! They look out the windows, where, indeed, the magnificent animals are merely accompanying them, flying escort as the chopper gains altitude. They're protecting their nest. That's all. That's all they're Kelly, completely drained, sits between Sarah and Malcolm, each of whom has a protective arm around her. She sags against her father's chest, nothing left. He holds her tight and WHISPERS in her ear.
MALCOLM: Thank you. Kelly, thank God. Thank God for you.
MALCOLM: Hello, Lex. Tim. LEX stands on her tiptoes and kisses Malcolm on the cheek. TIM extends a hand and Malcolm shakes it. This is Kelly. My daughter. They nod their hellos.
LEX: I'm glad you came, Dr. Malcolm
MALCOLM: I'm sorry about your grandfather.
TIM: Thank you.
LEX: We were going to call you, in a few days. Tim and I have been thinking, and we've decided we want people to know about the island. About what we all saw.
TIM: We think it's something our grandfather would want us to do.
MALCOLM: ( pause ) Because it's true. Malcolm looks at her for a long moment.
LEX: Because it's true. Malcolm looks at her for a long moment.
MALCOLM: I know, Lex. But even if we're the only ones who ever know, it'll still be true. You see, I've decided that if the world found out about what your grandfather created, it wouldn't be around for very long.
LEX: But it was real. You can't let people go on saying it's not.
MALCOLM: That's the thing about reality. He looks down at Kelly. Even when people stop believing in it, it doesn't go away. Kelly smiles and takes his hand, her slender fingers interlocking with his.
FADE OUT: Writers : David Koepp
