SHOOTING DRAFT: Still-life tableaus. Lawford, N.H., a town of fifty buildings on a glacial ridge, neither mountain nor plateau. Developed as 1880's forestland, discarded in the Depression. Winter has set in. Halloween day. Snowy fields yield to overcast skies: oppressive, horizonless, flourescent. Wickham's Restaurant. Where Route 29 bends. 24-hour diner. Margie Fogg works here. Trailer park in shadow of Parker Mountain. Home of Wade Toby's Inn. Roadhouse three miles from town on the river side of Route 29. Everything not tied down ends up here. Glen Whitehouse farm. White clapboard. First Congregational Church. North on the Common from City Hall. LaRiviere Co. Ramshackle well-digging firm embarrassingly near the town center. Wade works here. Merritt's Shell Station. Cinder-block. Alma Pittman's house. Like so many others. Town Hall. ROLFE WHITEHOUSE'S VOICE, thirtiesh, articulate, speaks over credit tableaus:
CREDITS: Still-life tableaus. Lawford, N.H., a town of fifty buildings on a glacial ridge, neither mountain nor plateau. Developed as 1880's forestland, discarded in the Depression. Winter has set in. Halloween day. Snowy fields yield to overcast skies: oppressive, horizonless, flourescent. Wickham's Restaurant. Where Route 29 bends. 24-hour diner. Margie Fogg works here. Trailer park in shadow of Parker Mountain. Home of Wade Toby's Inn. Roadhouse three miles from town on the river side of Route 29. Everything not tied down ends up here. Glen Whitehouse farm. White clapboard. First Congregational Church. North on the Common from City Hall. LaRiviere Co. Ramshackle well-digging firm embarrassingly near the town center. Wade works here. Merritt's Shell Station. Cinder-block. Alma Pittman's house. Like so many others. Town Hall. ROLFE WHITEHOUSE'S VOICE, thirtiesh, articulate, speaks over credit tableaus:
END CREDITS: INT./EXT. POLICE CAR - NIGHT WADE WHITEHOUSE, driving, sits beside JILL, his daughter, ten years-old, wearing a black-and-yellow tiger plastic mask.
WADE: I'm sorry for the screw-up. But I couldn't help it it's too late to go trick-or-treating now. I couldn't help it I had to stop at Penny's for the costume. And you were hungry, Who's fault is it then if it's not yours? You're the one in charge, Look. Those kids are still trick-or- treating. They're still out.
JILL: Who's fault is it then if it's not yours? You're the one in charge, Look. Those kids are still trick-or- treating. They're still out.
WADE: ( shakes cigarette from pack ) Look. Those kids are still trick-or- treating. They're still out.
JILL: Look. Those kids are still trick-or- treating. They're still out.
WADE: Those are the Hoyts.
JILL: I don't care. They're out.
WADE: Can't you see. look out there. Nobody's got their porch lights on anymore. It's too late. Those Hoyt kids are just out to get in trouble. See, they put shaving cream all over that mailbox there. They chopped down Herb Crane's new bushes. Little bastards. Jesus H. Christ.
JILL: Why do they do that?
WADE: Do what?
JILL: You know.
WADE: Break stuff?
JILL: Yeah. It's stupid.
WADE: I guess they're stupid.
JILL: Did you do that when you were a kid?
WADE: Well, yeah. Sort of. Nothing really mean. Me and my pals, me and my brothers. It was kind of funny then. Stealing pumpkins, soaping windows. Stuff like that.
JILL: Was it funny?
WADE: To us it was.
JILL: But it's not funny now.
WADE: It's not funny now. I'm a cop and I gotta listen to all the complaints people make. I'm not a kid anymore. You change.
JILL: I bet you did lots of bad things.
WADE: What are you talking about?
JILL: I just think you used to be bad.
WADE: No. I didn't used to be bad. No sir. Where do you get this stuff? From your mother?
JILL: No. She doesn't talk about you
LARIVIERE: We're looking for the funniest costume! And the scariest! And the most imaginative! And the best costume of all!
WADE: ( nudges Jill ) Got here just in time. Go ahead. Jump in line. Maybe you'll win a
WADE: Go on, Jill. Some of those kids you still know.
JILL: I don't want to.
WADE: Why? Why not? You know these kids from when you went to school here. It hasn't been that long.
JILL: It's not that.
WADE: What then?
JILL: It's stupid.
WADE: It's fun.
JILL: ( voice breaking ) I want to go home. ( Wade kneels down ) I don't like it here.
WADE: Oh, Jesus, come on, will you? Don't mess this up anymore than it's already been messed up. Join the other kids. Do that and before you know it you'll be as happy as a goddamned clam. Wade! And who's that tiger? Is that Jill? Come and join us.
LARIVIERE: Wade! And who's that tiger? Is that Jill? Come and join us.
WADE: What are you boys up to?
CHICK: Same old shit.
FRANKIE: You see the damage these little sons- of bitches been raising tonight?
WADE: ( to Jack ) You're going to have to move your I know.
JACK: I know.
CHICK: ( offers whiskey pint ) Take a bite.
WADE: Don't mind if I do.
JACK: LaRiviere's having a hell of a time in there. Master of fucking Where's that gun you were bragging on today?
WADE: Where's that gun you were bragging on today?
JACK: No brag. Just fact.
WADE: ( admires gun ) Got you for 450, 500 bucks? ( passes it to Frankie )
FRANKIE: ( to Wade ) See you got Jill tonight. How'd you manage that?
JACK: ( to Wade ) See you got Jill tonight. How'd you manage that?
WADE: ( turns ) Don't forget to move your truck. ( walks inside )
WADE: Some party, huh? Sorry I lost sight of you. I had to step outside for a smoke. You find anybody you know here? There must be some kids you used to know from school. You want to go tomorrow? See your old teachers? Be more fun than hanging out with me all day.
JILL: No what?
WADE: No what?
JILL: ( lifts mask atop head ) No I didn't see anybody I know. No I don't want to go to school here tomorrow. I want to go home.
WADE: You are home. There are lots of kids you still know here.
JILL: I don't want to be here. Don't worry, I love you, Daddy, I do. But I want to go home.
WADE: ( sighs ) Jesus. Listen, Jill, tell you what. Tomorrow morning, you still want to go home, I'll drive you down. I'll get off work or something.
JILL: ( pause ) I called Mommy.
WADE: What? You called Mommy? Just now?
JILL: Jesus, why?
WADE: Jesus, why?
JILL: I. because I want to go home. She said she'd come and get me.
WADE: Come and get you! Shit! It's a damn half hour drive each way. Why didn't you talk to me about it first?
JILL: See, I knew you'd be mad.
WADE: Yeah. Yeah, right, I'm mad. What'd you tell her, for Christ sake?
JILL: I told her I wanted to come home. Daddy, don't be mad at me.
WADE: Well, I guess I am. I planned this, I planned all this, you know. I mean, it's sort of pathetic, but I planned it. You shouldn't have called your C'mon, we're gonna call her before she leaves.
WADE: She's gone already! Gone already! Couldn't wait.
JILL: That's all you got to say? "Yes".
WADE: That's all you got to say? "Yes".
JILL: She won't be here for a half hour. Think you can stand it that long?
WADE: She won't be here for a half hour. Think you can stand it that long?
JILL: Where do you expect to wait for her? Obviously downstairs with the other kids isn't good enough.
WADE: Where do you expect to wait for her? Obviously downstairs with the other kids isn't good enough.
WADE: Sit right there by yourself if you want. Wait for her by yourself. That's fine with me. Just dandy. I'm going That's fine with me too. When Mommy comes, tell her I'm up here.
JILL: That's fine with me too. When Mommy comes, tell her I'm up here.
WADE: I thought I told you to move that Relax, Chief. We're leaving. You wanna toke?
JACK: Relax, Chief. We're leaving. You wanna toke?
WADE: ( steps over ) You gotta be more careful about that shit. Gordon or one of those guys sees you smoking that wacky tabacky around me they'll expect me to bust you. And I'll be outta a job.
JACK: Some job. Here, have a hit. Don't be such a hardass. I know you got problems, but everybody's got
WADE: Not here.
JACK: Well, c'mon, then. Get in and we'll take a little ride, my man.
JACK: Got a job first thing in the morning, first day of season. Saturday I'll hunt for myself. Twombley something. - Evan. He's a mucky-muck union official from Massachusetts. You're lucky.
WADE: Evan. He's a mucky-muck union official from Massachusetts. You're lucky.
JACK: Don't know about lucky. The guy's a full-blown asshole. Pay's good, though. $100 a day. I got to guarantee a kill, of course. Which I can do. There's some monster bucks hiding out up there.
WADE: How'd you get the job?
JACK: Gordon, he's always got some angle working. He wants to keep Twombley happy, I'm his boy.
HETTIE: What's wrong with you?
WADE: ( to Jack ) You should get close to him. Make yourself irreplaceable. Guy's loaded.
JACK: Like you and Gordon?
WADE: Right. The sonofabitch couldn't get along without me.
JACK: ( laughs ) Yeah, he'd go broke tomorrow if you quit him.
WADE: ( laughs )
JACK: Bastard's got his high beams on.
WADE: ( watching ) My ex-wife Lillian and her husband. That was them in the Audi that just passed us.
HETTIE: My ex-wife Lillian and her husband. That was them in the Audi that just passed us.
WADE: My ex-wife Lillian and her husband. That was them in the Audi that just passed us.
JACK: Audi's a good car.
HETTIE: What's she up here for?
WADE: Aw, shit, she's here to get Jill. Me and Jill had a little argument. Jack, I got to get back, get back to town. Move this thing, will you? See if you can get back to the Town Hall before they get there, okay?
JACK: Piece of fucking cake.
WADE: Where's Jill?
LILLIAN: Where's Jill?
WADE: Me and Jill, we just had a little spat. She felt kind of left out, I guess, from not knowing some of the new kids
LILLIAN: Where is she now? Is she in the truck with your friends?
WADE: She told me she wanted to wait for you. Inside.
LILLIAN: While you went off for a few beers with your friends? Is that Hettie Rodgers there, with whatzizname?
WADE: She's grown up some, hasn't she?
LILLIAN: She's grown up some, hasn't she?
WADE: Oh, Jesus, lay off, will you? It looks like you've won this fucking round already, so lay off a little, for Christ's sake. Horner! Leave her be. This's got nothing to do with you, so just act like the chauffeur. Got it?
WADE: Horner! Leave her be. This's got nothing to do with you, so just act like the chauffeur. Got it?
HORNER: Wade. Nobody wants any trouble.
WADE: I don't want her to go, Lillian.
LILLIAN: Don't cause a scene. No one's trying to win any 'rounds'. Don't make it any worse.
WADE: I'm not making it any worse. You are. Me and Jill could've worked this thing out. It's normal, it's even normal for me to get a little touchy about it. Believe it or not. How do you think this makes me look, treating her like some tragic victim or something? Just wait till we're through,
WADE: Just wait till we're through,
WADE: Don't you say a word. I didn't hit him. I'm not going to hit anybody. New hat? Jill's up, I see.
MARGIE: New hat? Jill's up, I see.
WADE: ( vague ) For a while.
MARGIE: How's she doing?
WADE: Okay. She's fine.
MARGIE: You two want to do anything tomorrow and need a third party, give me a call, okay? I'm off.
WICKHAM: Like hell you are. Tomorrow's first day of deer season. I'll need you at least in the morning.
MARGIE: ( shrugs ) Well, that's that.
NICK: ( walks off ) Take care, Wade.
WADE: You be careful of that little bastard. He's dying to get in your pants, you Don't worry. I can protect my virtue. I mean, c'mon, Wade, give me a break.
MARGIE: ( laughs ) Don't worry. I can protect my virtue. I mean, c'mon, Wade, give me a break.
WADE: See you tomorrow, maybe.
MARGIE: You okay?
WADE: Wade, lost in thought, continues toward Town Hall. At the door, LaRiviere, one of the last to leave, eyes him. Wade tosses Horner's hat inside.
WADE: Tomorrow, Gordon.
LARIVIERE: Watch this snow. It's coming down
WADE: ( on phone ) Lugene? Wade. Hoya doin? ( fumbles for cigarette ) Look, I was wondering, with the snow and all, if you got school today? ( lights cigarette ) How the hell do I know? You're the principal. All I'm supposed to do is direct traffic from 7:30 to 8:30. ( listens ) Yeah, okay, I'm sorry I only just now saw it was snowing, that's all. My whole day is fucked. I gotta plow all day. If I don't get over to LaRiviere's early enough, I'm stuck with the grader. I was just hoping you'd have called school off. ( beat ) You check the weather bureau? ( acquiesces ) Okay, I hear you. I'll be over in a ( hangs up )
TWOMBLEY: It's not enough snow, not for tracking the bastards. No advantage there, Don't worry, Mr. Twombley, I know where those suckers are. Rain or shine, snow or no snow. I know deer. We'll kill us a buck today. Guaranteed. Before ten.
JACK: Don't worry, Mr. Twombley, I know where those suckers are. Rain or shine, snow or no snow. I know deer. We'll kill us a buck today. Guaranteed. Before ten.
TWOMBLEY: Guaranteed, eh?
JACK: Yep. Right about now the does are holing up in the brush piles. The bucks are right behind them and we're right behind the bucks. This gun gets fired before ten o'clock. Whether it kills a deer or not is more less up to you. I'll put you inside 30, 35 yards of a buck the first four hours of the season. That's what you're paying me for, ain't it?
TWOMBLEY: Damn straight!
JACK: Done much shooting with that rifle Tell you what. You get me close to a big buck by ten, kid, there's another hundred bucks in it.
TWOMBLEY: ( eyes him ) Tell you what. You get me close to a big buck by ten, kid, there's another hundred bucks in it.
JACK: If you get it?
TWOMBLEY: You might not kill it.
JACK: You might not kill it.
TWOMBLEY: You think so.
JACK: You might gut-shoot it or cripple it for somebody else to find and tag. Can't guarantee that won't happen, especially with a new gun. I may have to shoot it.
TWOMBLEY: You take care of your end, kid, I'll take care of mine.
JACK: You understand what I'm saying? I want a deer, a dead one, not a cripple or whatthefuck.
TWOMBLEY: You understand what I'm saying? I want a deer, a dead one, not a cripple or whatthefuck.
JACK: I get it. No sweat. You'll get yourself a deer and you'll get him dead. And you'll have him by coffee time.
TWOMBLEY: And you'll get your extra hundred
JACK: ( smiles )
LUGENE: Are you okay, Wade? What was wrong? Why were you holding everyone up?
WADE: Did you see that sonofabitch in the BMW? He could've killed somebody.
LUGENE: Did you get his number?
WADE: I know who it is.
LUGENE: Good. Who?
WADE: Mel Gordon.
LUGENE: I still don't understand
WADE: From Boston. Evan Twombley's son-in- law he was driving. I know where they're headed. Up the lake, Agaway. The old man's out deer hunting with Jack Hewitt, so they probably got some big weekend party planned.
JACK: Safety on?
TWOMBLEY: I'm okay.
JACK: Follow close. We'll cross the next
JACK: I used to play ball.
TWOMBLEY: Drafted by the Red Sox.
JACK: Drafted by the Red Sox.
TWOMBLEY: You played for the Sox?
JACK: Double A. New Britain.
TWOMBLEY: Pitcher. "Best ballplayer to come out of New Hampshire since Carlton They said.
JACK: Pitcher. "Best ballplayer to come out of New Hampshire since Carlton They said.
TWOMBLEY: They said.
JACK: They said.
TWOMBLEY: The only difference between me and that Clemens on TV is luck, shit What happened?
JACK: The only difference between me and that Clemens on TV is luck, shit What happened?
TWOMBLEY: What happened?
JACK: Ruined my arm. Brought me along too fast. Why'd it have to be my fucking arm, I used to think. Then I realized it had to be somebody's fucking arm.
TWOMBLEY: Hey, Hewitt! Slow the fuck down! Safety on?
JACK: Safety on?
TWOMBLEY: This way.
JACK: This way.
TWOMBLEY: ( walking loudly ) Sun's gettin high.
JACK: ( fingers to lips ) Deers have ears too.
LARIVIERE: Told you the snow was coming down. Take the grader.
WADE: Where's the plow?
LARIVIERE: Jimmy took it. Jack's out hunting with Evan Twombley.
WADE: His son-in-law damn near killed me.
LARIVIERE: ( hangs up ) At the school crossing. In his BMW. Coulda hurt some kids. I'm gonna bust his ass.
WADE: At the school crossing. In his BMW. Coulda hurt some kids. I'm gonna bust his ass.
LARIVIERE: Don't go playing policeman.
WADE: What am I a security guard? You hired me, you and your Selectman You don't want the extra police pay?
LARIVIERE: You don't want the extra police pay?
WADE: I'm not saying that.
LARIVIERE: Get the grader. Go out 29 past Toby's. Don't let Lillian get to you. She didn't belong here. That's why she Fuck you.
WADE: Fuck you.
LARIVIERE: That's what I love about a small town. You know everybody.
JACK: Stay here, stand where I am.
JACK: Fresh tracks. Deer shit. Big one. Here's your buck, Mr. Twombley. I'll circle around.
TWOMBLEY: You only got a little while if you want your hundred bucks.
JIMMY: How's it goin?
WADE: Cold. How you think?
JIMMY: Sorry about that. Why's it every year, come first snow, you get stuck with the grader?
WADE: School. Traffic crossing. I gotta quit these things.
JIMMY: What we doing after? Wells? Don't work too fast. Business the way it is, Gordon's probably looking to lay me off earlier than usual this year. He's got too much money as it is. Why's it always the little guy that gets kicked in the butt in hard times?
LACOY: .That was no pisser. I'll tell you who was a pisser. Glen Whitehouse. There was a real pisser. He was mean normal, but when he drank it was like he burst on fire. Canadian Club. Always drank CC. One Christmas there's this cord of wood out back he forgot about and he decides to have his two boys stack it. Except it's been out back two months and it's snowed and rained and froze so now the wood's all iced in. He takes the boys. He was drunk, of course.
POP: Move it! Daylight in the swamps!
ROLFE: Pop, the kids are waiting for us.
WADE: ( reproving ) A lesson in work and its rewards. You'll thank me for this one day. ( to house ) Sally, turn off that TV!
POP: A lesson in work and its rewards. You'll thank me for this one day. Sally, turn off that TV!
WADE: ( to Rolfe ) Just do it.
POP: Please, Pop. Let's go back.
ROLFE: Please, Pop. Let's go back.
POP: What are you, a quitter?
LACOY: Beats me. That's all I heard. Wade would know more about it. Wade! We were just talking about your Old Man. "What are you, a
WADE: Jesus, LaCoy, you got nothing better to do than sit around and tell stories. Pity is, some college student will come some day and believe this shit cause you're the only one dumb enough to talk to him. Take care.
POP: That was some job.
ROLFE: We'll work at it everyday, promise.
POP: I think we made the point.
WADE: ( mumbles ) You just needed a drink.
POP: What was that? You got something to say, say it! Say it!
WADE: ( soft ) You no-good pup!
POP: You no-good pup!
WADE: It don't look right.
NICK: The sign. It looks like it's spelled wrong or something.
WADE: The sign. It looks like it's spelled wrong or something.
NICK: Fuck. Wade Whitehouse. It's people like you that keep this fucking town from prospering. Whatever somebody does to improve things around here, you gotta find fault with it.
WADE: I'm not finding fault. It's a good idea, good for you, good for the town. Real modern too.
NICK: This town sucks.
WADE: Aw, c'mon, I was only saying there's something wrong with "Home Made Cooking", that's all. The sign's fine. What it says is wrong.
MARGIE: Who needs it? Everybody who comes here has been coming for years so what they need a sign for?
MARGIE: You okay?
WADE: I'm sorry about what I said.
MARGIE: I'm sorry about what I said.
WADE: Said what?
MARGIE: About you and Jill and needing a third person. She went back to Forget it.
WADE: Forget it.
MARGIE: ( touches his arm ) I'm sorry.
WADE: I'm going to start one of those custody suits. I don't give a fucking shit. You know?
MARGIE: You don't mean that.
WADE: Yeah. I mean that.
MARGIE: ( arm around his shoulders ) No you don't. You're pissed, that's all. You ought to cool off for a few days then have a long talk with Lillian. You know? Work it out with her, tell her how you feel. Lillian's not out to get you.
WADE: The hell she isn't. Lillian's been trying to nail me to a cross since the day I met her. I'm gonna hire me a fucking lawyer from Concord and get this thing, this divorce thing, rearranged. I've been thinking about it a lot. It's like she owns Jill or something. Nobody owns nobody, especially not kids. And I pay her.
NICK: ( calls ) That goddamned woman. Thinks she can cart Jill off and leave me alone like this. I'm more than pissed, Margie. I'm a whole lot more than pissed. I been that plenty and I know the difference. This is Marg! You got orders!
WADE: That goddamned woman. Thinks she can cart Jill off and leave me alone like this. I'm more than pissed, Margie. I'm a whole lot more than pissed. I been that plenty and I know the difference. This is Marg! You got orders!
NICK: Marg! You got orders!
MARGIE: Call me.
WADE: ( genuine ) Tonight. Let's get together.
MARGIE: Wade meets Nick halfway to the door.
NICK: You talked to Jack?
WADE: Not since last night. He took a guy The fucker shot himself. Ker-bang! That's what it sounds like. Not on purpose. I assume accidental.
NICK: The fucker shot himself. Ker-bang! That's what it sounds like. Not on purpose. I assume accidental.
WADE: ( shocked ) The other guy.
NICK: The other guy.
WADE: Where. how'd you hear that?
NICK: CB. Little while ago. One of the boys on the way in picked up Jack on the CB calling for state troopers. I figured you'd know what really happened. The fucking guy kill himself? This Twombley, who the fuck is he, anyhow?
WADE: No, I. I've been out on the grader all morning. Twombley's summer people. Massachusetts. Friend of Gordon's. It was his idea for Jack to take him I gotta go.
NICK: He don't care for you.
MARGIE: Stop being jealous.
LARIVIERE: What's the hurry?
WADE: A hunting accident. Jack and Twombley.
LARIVIERE: I figured you already heard.
WADE: I figured you already heard.
LARIVIERE: ( urgent ) Twombley, Jesus. We got to get moving: I got to get up there. How would I know? C'mon, you drive. We'll take my truck.
LARIVIERE: Fuck. Turn it off. All you heard was there was some kinda accident?
WADE: Twombley's shot. I heard that. Not Jack. He's okay, I assume.
LARIVIERE: Fuck. You don't know how bad or You mean Twombley?
WADE: You mean Twombley?
LARIVIERE: Yes, Wade, I mean Twombley. Put out that cigarette. Fuck. Fuck. Fuck. He more than likely just shot himself in the foot or something. That's what usually happens.
WADE: He more than likely just shot himself in the foot or something. That's what usually happens.
LARIVIERE: I shoulda sent you instead of Jack.
WADE: I wish you had. I'd rather be deer hunting instead of freezing my ass on that fucking grader.
LARIVIERE: You ain't the hunter Jack is. And he can't drive the grader worth shit.
WADE: Like hell.
LARIVIERE: ( frightened ) That must've been Twombley. Jesus. I bet that was Twombley.
WADE: You want me to follow them to Let's get to the top and talk to Jack first. He'll know what happened. He fucking better. If this coulda been avoided, I'll put that kid's ass in a sling.
LARIVIERE: Let's get to the top and talk to Jack first. He'll know what happened. He fucking better. If this coulda been avoided, I'll put that kid's ass in a sling.
JACK: You heard the news.
LARIVIERE: I hear Twombley got shot.
JACK: Wade walks over to trooper ASA BROWN, pets the shepherd.
BROWN: Watch the dog, Wade. Takes a mind to, he'll tear your fucking head Thirty-thirty at close range.
LARIVIERE: ( to Jack ) Thirty-thirty at close range.
BROWN: Thirty-thirty at close range.
LARIVIERE: Will he make it?
WADE: Will he make it?
BROWN: ( shakes head ) D.O.A. Blew the bastard wide open. Had a hole in back you could put your head into. Pretty big hole in front too. You could've put your fist into that one.
LARIVIERE: ( to Jack ) You see it?
JACK: Nope. Heard it. We wasn't far apart. I spotted this buck, then I heard the gun go off and Twombley was gone. I looked over the little cliff we was using for a stand and there the fucker was, deader'n shit. Called it right in.
LARIVIERE: This is gonna be one fucking mess to clean up. Twombley's son-in-law and daughter are up the weekend. Didn't you say you'd seen him, Wade?
WADE: I seen 'em. Near ran me over.
BROWN: You wanna tell 'em, Gordon? You knew the old man.
LARIVIERE: What the fuck. My day's already Give me the keys. You can go back with Jack. You still got a shitload of plowing to do.
WADE: It ain't done, if that's what you Something bugging you?
LARIVIERE: Something bugging you?
WADE: Yeah. A few things.
LARIVIERE: Well, right now we're not too interested. Finish up what you gotta do, then you can get bugged on your own time.
LARIVIERE: ( to Jack ) Might as well take the rest of the day off. You look sort of fucked up. You've been paid for the day, anyhow, Not exactly. I mean, he never paid You'll get your money. Don't talk to any newspapers about this. Twombley's a big deal down in Massachusetts, you know. Tell them your lawyer says you shouldn't comment.
JACK: Not exactly. I mean, he never paid You'll get your money. Don't talk to any newspapers about this. Twombley's a big deal down in Massachusetts, you know. Tell them your lawyer says you shouldn't comment.
LARIVIERE: You'll get your money. Don't talk to any newspapers about this. Twombley's a big deal down in Massachusetts, you know. Tell them your lawyer says you shouldn't comment.
JACK: Lawyer? I don't need no lawyer, do
I?: No, of course not. Just say it, that's
LARIVIERE: No, of course not. Just say it, that's
WADE: Where'd Twombley get shot?
JACK: In the chest.
WADE: ( offers cigarette ) No, I mean whereabouts.
JACK: ( points ) A half mile in, along the old lumber You bring him up yourself? That's a steep climb.
WADE: You bring him up yourself? That's a steep climb.
JACK: The ambulance guys lugged him up.
WADE: You stayed away?
JACK: Where'd you get the blood?
WADE: Where'd you get the blood?
JACK: What blood?
WADE: On your sleeve.
JACK: Musta. How'd I know? What're you doing, playing cop?
WADE: I gotta make a report to Fish and Game. I was just wondering, that's all. What'd he do, to shoot himself, I mean?
JACK: Who the fuck knows? Musta slipped or something. I just heard the gun go I never seen a man shot before. Not even in the service. Must be Well, I didn't actually see him do it. Like I said.
WADE: I never seen a man shot before. Not even in the service. Must be Well, I didn't actually see him do it. Like I said.
JACK: Well, I didn't actually see him do it. Like I said.
WADE: Sure you did.
JACK: Saw him do it?
WADE: Saw him do it?
JACK: What the fuck you telling me, Wade? I never seen the guy get shot, I told you that.
WADE: You musta seen him get shot. I know you did.
JACK: Let's get the fuck outta here. You're not making any sense, man.
WADE: There's your old twenty-gauge, and that there's the new Browning you was showing me last night. This must be Twombley's gun. Brand new. Very fancy tooling. Probably fired one time. It's a beautiful piece of work. But what the hell, Jack, I guess you deserve it. Right's right.
JACK: ( starts engine ) Twombley sure as hell won't be shooting it again.
WADE: Twombley sure as hell won't be shooting it again.
JACK: He sure as hell won't.
WADE: ROLFE ( O.S. ) ROLFE ( O.S. )
WADE: Yeah, brother, look, I was calling cause has there been anything on TV in Boston about a hunting accident with a guy named Twombley, Evan There was something. It happened up your way.
WADE: Yeah, I know him the kid that was with him. Maybe you do too. Jack Hewitt. He works for LaRiviere with me. He's my best friend.
WADE: No, not tonight. I'm in bed too. I'm calling because I need you to listen. You're supposed to be a smart guy. You're a professor. I got this theory. Jack says he didn't see Twombley shot but he did.
WADE: It'll come out Jack lied and the kid'll get hung for it.
WADE: ROLFE ( O.S. )
WADE: No shit.
WADE: Well, it was an accident.
WADE: Lillian was here. In Lawford.
WADE: The night before the shooting.
WADE: Picked up Jill. She was supposed to visit for the weekend for Halloween. She wanted to go home.
WADE: Jill. I was thinking of getting a lawyer. Maybe you can help me.
WADE: A divorce lawyer. A custody lawyer. You know, 'cause of Jill.
WADE: Yeah, I guess.
WADE: I get to feeling like a whipped dog some days, Rolfe, and some night I'm going to bite back. I swear it.
WADE: No, no, I haven't. Not really. I've growled a little, but I haven't bit.
MRS. GORDON: Who are you?
WADE: I was. I'm Wade Whitehouse. I was wondering, is your husband here?
MRS. GORDON: He's asleep. We were up very late.
WADE: Well, yes, I'm. I want to say that I'm real sorry about your father, Mrs. Twombley.
MRS. GORDON: Mrs. Gordon. Thank you.
WADE: Well, yeah, I suppose. Sure. I just had a little business to settle with Mr. Gordon. I'm the local police Something about my father?
MRS. GORDON: Something about my father?
WADE: Oh, no. No, it's a. it's a traffic thing. No big deal.
MRS. GORDON: Can't it wait, then?
MEL GORDON: Whitehouse. Next time, phone ahead.
WADE: How's that?
MEL GORDON: I said, 'Next time, phone ahead.'
WADE: Jesus Christ. Mr. Gordon, when I come all the way to serve somebody a summons, I don't call ahead for an What the hell are you talking about?
MEL GORDON: What the hell are you talking about?
WADE: I'm issuing you a ticket. Moving Moving violation! I just got out of bed and you're telling me you're giving me a goddamn speeding ticket? Now? Are you nuts? Is that it, Whitehouse? You're nuts?
MEL GORDON: Moving violation! I just got out of bed and you're telling me you're giving me a goddamn speeding ticket? Now? Are you nuts? Is that it, Whitehouse? You're nuts?
WADE: ( writing ) Yesterday morning, you passed a stopped school bus, which was flashing its lights, then you
MEL GORDON: ( stops Wade's arm ) Hold on!
WADE: ( wrenches hand free ) Don't ever put your hands on me, Mr. You're talking about a goddamned ticket, from when I passed you at the school where you were deciding to hold up traffic while dreaming of becoming a traffic cop or something?
MEL GORDON: You're talking about a goddamned ticket, from when I passed you at the school where you were deciding to hold up traffic while dreaming of becoming a traffic cop or something?
WADE: Don't give me a hard time, Mr. Gordon. I'm just
MEL GORDON: Doing your fucking job. I know. I watch television too.
WADE: Yes. Here's your ticket.
MEL GORDON: ( refusing ticket ) You get the hell out of my house now, asshole. And know this you are going to be a lucky asshole if I haven't got you fired before the day is out. I can do it with one phone call, and I'm pissed enough to do it
MARGIE: Jack's sort of sensitive, I guess. More than most. But he'll be okay in a few weeks.
WADE: There's something funny about that shooting. There's lots funny about it, actually.
MARGIE: I heard he was drunk at Toby's last night and got in a fight with Hettie. He drove off without her.
WADE: I'm sure, I'm positive it didn't happen the way Jack says it did.
MARGIE: .Jack's turned into one of those men who are permanently angry. He used to be a sweet kid, but it's like, when he found out he couldn't play ball anymore, he changed. Now he's like everyone else.
WADE: I've been wondering if maybe Jack shot Twombley, instead of Twombley shooting himself. I've been wondering maybe Jack shot him on purpose.
MARGIE: Wade! How can you even think such a thing? Why would Jack Hewitt do that, shoot Twombley on purpose?
WADE: Jack doesn't need money.
MARGIE: Jack doesn't need money.
WADE: Everybody needs money. Except guys like Twombley and that sonofabitch son-in-law of his. People like that.
MARGIE: Jack wouldn't kill for it. Besides, who would pay him?
WADE: Lots of people. Guy like Evan Twombley, Boston union official, probably got lots of people want to see him dead. The Government's been investigating his links with the The Mafia hire Jack Hewitt?
MARGIE: ( laughs ) The Mafia hire Jack Hewitt?
WADE: No, I just know Jack's lying about what happened. He just seemed I know that kid, what he's like inside. He's a lot like I was at his age.
MARGIE: You wouldn't have done anything like that, shot someone for money.
WADE: No. Not for money. But, if somebody'd given me half a damned excuse I was pretty fucked up, you know.
MARGIE: ( smiles ) But not now.
MARGIE: When you gonna get that tooth fixed?
WADE: I can see what you looked like as a You knew me as a kid.
MARGIE: You knew me as a kid.
WADE: Yeah, but never what you looked like. Not really. Never really studied your face, like now. I was never able to see you as a kid when you were a kid until now, this way.
MARGIE: What way?
WADE: After making love. I like it. It's nice to see that in a grown-up person.
MARGIE: It's nice.
MARGIE: Don't you think, do you still think it's a good idea to press this custody thing just now?
WADE: I'm her father supposed to be, but I'm not able to. Yes. Yes, I am. It may be the only thing in my life I've been so clear about wanting. Even if it takes a big fight.
MARGIE: Then. I guess you have to.
WADE: ( silence ) There's another thing I've been thinking about. I don't know how you feel about the idea, Margie, because we've never talked about it. But I've been thinking lately, I've been thinking we should get married sometime. You and me.
MARGIE: ( uncertain ) Oh, Wade.
WADE: I've been thinking about it, that's You've been married twice
MARGIE: You've been married twice
WADE: It was to the same woman. I was just a kid. It's not like a marriage proposal or anything, just a thought. Something for you and me to talk about and think about. You know?
MARGIE: Alright. I'll think about it.
WADE: He kisses her. His jaw winces in pain.
POP: I've got sons, Goddamnit, oh my God, have I got sons! Wade? Rolfe? Elbourne? You love me boys? Do you love your Pop? Of course you do!
SALLY: Glen, stop
POP: Oh, Jesus, Sally, you are such a Goddamned good person! Capital G. You are so much better than I am, I who am no good at all, you who are a truly good person, like a fucking saint! Beyond fucking com-pare.
POP: My big boy bursting out of the seams of his jeans!
SALLY: You little prick!
POP: You little prick!
SALLY: Glen, stop!
MARGIE: Did you tell them? That we were coming?
WADE: Don't you think it's proper for a fella to introduce his girl to his I know your parents.
MARGIE: I know your parents.
WADE: I just want to pick up my divorce papers. For the lawyer. It won't take long.
MARGIE: ( getting out ) Are you sure they're home? Did you The truck's here. Looks like they've stayed inside since the snow started.
WADE: The truck's here. Looks like they've stayed inside since the snow started.
WADE: Think they're alright?
MARGIE: Think they're alright?
WADE: Of course! I would've heard.
MARGIE: I don't know for Christ's sake!
WADE: I don't know for Christ's sake!
WADE: Pop, Pop, you okay? Jesus, Pop, how can you stand the cold, dressed like that? Where's Ma?
WADE: Jesus, Pop, how can you stand the cold, dressed like that? Where's Ma?
POP: You remember Margie Fogg?
WADE: You remember Margie Fogg?
POP: From Wickham's. Been a while. Like some coffee?
WADE: How you and Ma doing? Haven't seen you in town for a while.
POP: We're alright. Your Ma's sleeping. You want me to get her?
WADE: Pop goes to the bedroom.
WADE: ( to Marg ) Jesus. Nothing's changed around here.
WADE: Where's Ma?
POP: She's coming.
MARGIE: Have you been heating the house? Not just with the stove.
POP: There's a furnace.
MARGIE: You're not using it today?
POP: It's broke I guess. There's an electric in the bedroom.
MARGIE: Maybe Wade should take a look at it. Your pipes'll freeze. Wade, would you do that?
WADE: Ma? It's Wade. Can I come in?
WADE: Oh, Lord.
POP: Coffee's perked.
MARGIE: When did she die?
POP: Is.? She's dead then?
WADE: I checked on her. She had the electric heater. Cold don't bother her as much as me. Which is why I give her the heater.
POP: I checked on her. She had the electric heater. Cold don't bother her as much as me. Which is why I give her the heater.
WADE: ( kneels over mother ) Is there something wrong with the In the living room.
POP: In the living room.
WADE: Why didn't you call and have the furnace fixed?
POP: Wade. I thought she was alright. Till this morning she was.
POP: It makes me sad.
MARGIE: Can ?
POP: ( sits ) Makes me sad it was her. Instead of me. I shoulda froze.
WADE: ( finishing a beer ) Shouldn't we get this show on the road, now that Rolfe's here?
WADE: Pointless to stand around in church with nothing to do, I guess.
ROLFE: What about Jill? Is Lillian bringing
MARGIE: They'll be at the church and the
WADE: Anyone else want one? Rolfe?
ROLFE: No thanks. I don't drink.
WADE: Yeah. I forgot.
LARIVIERE: How you holding up, Wade?
WADE: I'm fine, fine.
LARIVIERE: You Rolfe? I remember you from high school. You're a teacher now? Harvard?
ROLFE: I haven't seen you around. I don't suppose there's much reason for you to come this way.
LARIVIERE: I haven't seen you around. I don't suppose there's much reason for you to come this way.
REV. DOUGHTY: Come, Glen, join us. Let's kneel for a moment of prayer before the service. Wade? Rolfe?
ROLFE: Wade, expressionless, looks at Rolfe. Rolfe, embarrassed, trying to do the right thing, helps his father kneel beside Rev. Doughty. The others join the circle.
WADE: This is nuts.
MARGIE: ( reproving ) Dear Heavenly Father, Lord of Hosts, we come to Thee to beseech Thy blessings and commend to You the soul of our beloved wife and mother, Sally Whitehouse, to be one with You and walk with You
REV. DOUGHTY: Dear Heavenly Father, Lord of Hosts, we come to Thee to beseech Thy blessings and commend to You the soul of our beloved wife and mother, Sally Whitehouse, to be one with You and walk with You
POP: .goddamned hair on her head.
POP: Not a one of you is worth a goddamned hair on that good woman's head!
WADE: Pop! Don't do this now, Pop.
LARIVIERE: Maybe I'll head on over to the church.
REV. DOUGHTY: This is a difficult time.
WADE: Listen, it's no big deal, Pop.
POP: ( raising fists ) Come on, smart guy. Tell how it's no big deal. Tell me how a single one of you is worth a single hair on that woman's head.
REV. DOUGHTY: Give up this demon.
POP: Go fuck yourself!
ROLFE: Wade, just leave it.
POP: ( mocking ) Listen to your little brother. 'Wade, just leave it.' Candy-asses. All of you. That's what I've got for children. Candyasses. 'Wade, just leave it.' Praise the Lord! 'Just leave it!' If you ever touch her again, I'll kill you. I swear it.
WADE: If you ever touch her again, I'll kill you. I swear it.
JILL: ( to Lillian ) I'm glad you're here. Can you stay for a while?
WADE: ( to Lillian ) I'm glad you're here. Can you stay for a while?
WADE: You ever come to your father's grave No, not anymore. It's too. it's too far.
LILLIAN: No, not anymore. It's too. it's too far.
WADE: We should talk.
LILLIAN: We've done all our talking, Wade.
WADE: It's just.
LILLIAN: Let the past be. I'm sorry about your mother. I liked her. You never know how much women like that suffer. It's like they live their lives with the sound turned off and then they're gone.
JILL: ( tugging at Lillian ) She has an ice-skating lesson at I'm taking ice-skating, Daddy!
LILLIAN: She has an ice-skating lesson at I'm taking ice-skating, Daddy!
JILL: I'm taking ice-skating, Daddy!
WADE: Let's dig out Pop's truck before the skin of the snow freezes up.
ROLFE: What about Margie?
WADE: What about her?
ROLFE: Well, do you still plan to get Yeah. She'll probably quit her job and stay out here with Pop. We can't leave him alone here, he'll set the damn place on fire. With Jill here a lot, it'll be good to have Margie around. Things are going to change in that department, by the way. I got a custody lawyer in Concord. I'm gonna see him tomorrow. All hell's gonna break loose, but it's worth
WADE: Yeah. She'll probably quit her job and stay out here with Pop. We can't leave him alone here, he'll set the damn place on fire. With Jill here a lot, it'll be good to have Margie around. Things are going to change in that department, by the way. I got a custody lawyer in Concord. I'm gonna see him tomorrow. All hell's gonna break loose, but it's worth
WADE: I want to let the gas run out. I don't want the bastard driving drunk, and he's always drunk now. After, we'll hide the keys.
ROLFE: Anything new about the shooting? I guess it was an accident, like everybody thinks.
WADE: ( reluctant ) I guess it was an accident, like everybody thinks.
ROLFE: Want to know what I think happened?
WADE: Find them everywhere.
ROLFE: I think your first response to the Twombley shooting was the correct Which is?
WADE: Which is?
ROLFE: That it wasn't an accident.
WADE: Then who shot him?
ROLFE: Well, your friend, I think. Jack Motive. You gotta have a motive.
WADE: Motive. You gotta have a motive.
ROLFE: Who'd pay him that kind of money? Not the mob. They got their own guys. They wouldn't deal with a guy like Jack. Who else benefits if Twombley is suddenly dead?
WADE: Who'd pay him that kind of money? Not the mob. They got their own guys. They wouldn't deal with a guy like Jack. Who else benefits if Twombley is suddenly dead?
ROLFE: ( agreeing ) They wouldn't deal with a guy like Jack. Who else benefits if Twombley is suddenly dead?
WADE: ( swigs ) I don't know. You tell me.
ROLFE: Okay. It's likely there are people in the union who don't want Twombley to testify. They probably include his son-in-law who's vice-president and will probably be the next president. I read that in the papers. What's his name, Mel Gordon?
WADE: Yeah, the guy with the BMW I told you about. I did, didn't I?
ROLFE: Here's my theory. Twombley, unaware of illegal union loans or whatever, starts nosing around cause of the investigation and finds out. Finds out his son-in-law is involved.
WADE: So Mel Gordon wouldn't want a professional hit. That'd make the feds dig deeper. He wants an accident.
ROLFE: A hunting accident is perfect.
WADE: Shit, around here, you shoot somebody in the woods, you say it was an accident, you get fined fifty bucks and your hunting license lifted. Jack's probably saying the guy shot himself cause he ain't got his deer yet and don't want his license pulled.
WADE: It's too neat. Things ain't that neat. It makes me mad. That somebody can pay to kill somebody, his own father-in-law, and not be punished for it. Don't that piss you off?
ROLFE: Not particularly.
WADE: Right's right, goddamnit! Don't you care what's right?
ROLFE: I care about what happened. The truth. I'm a student of history, remember?
ROLFE: I was thinking about that story you told me, about Pop and chopping the firewood out of the ice and after.
WADE: I hate to disappoint you, but I don't think it happened.
ROLFE: I hate to disappoint you, but I don't think it happened.
WADE: Of course it happened. Why would I lie about it?
ROLFE: It may have happened, but not the way you said.
WADE: You think I wouldn't remember a thing like that?
ROLFE: It wasn't me. I wasn't there, but I heard about it. When I heard about it, it was about Elbourne.
WADE: We'd have to go digging in Vietnam to ask him.
ROLFE: And Elbourne and Mom took you to the doctor and told him you fell from the hay loft.
WADE: ( laughs ) Well, I never heard that one.
ROLFE: I remember clearly cause when I heard I became real careful around Pop. I was a careful child and I became a careful adult, but at least I wasn't afflicted by that man's violence.
WADE: ( laughs again ) That's what you think.
ROLFE: I gotta head back. It's a long drive.
LARIVIERE: Put out that fucking cigarette!
LARIVIERE: Not there, asshole. Flush it!
WADE: Morning, Gordon.
JACK: I'm fucking out of here.
WADE: Out of this fucking job. This job sucks. Working outside in the winter
JACK: Out of this fucking job. This job sucks. Working outside in the winter
JACK: Open the door, will ya?
WADE: Why don't you quit now, you want out so bad?
JACK: Open the door. We're late.
WADE: I mean it you got enough money now. Head out for California. Surf's up, Jack, and you're digging wells in the snow.
JACK: What do you mean I got money? I'm as broke as you.
WADE: Looney Tunes, Jack. Fucking Looney
MEL GORDON: The boss in?
WADE: I screwed up the divorce. I agreed with everything she said. I wanted her to like me. I just want to be a good father.
HAND: It would help if you were married, if there was someone at home while you work.
WADE: I plan to. Soon.
HAND: How soon?
WADE: This spring.
HAND: Good. It would help if there were some drug or alcohol abuse on the part of your ex-wife. Sexual problems upsetting to the child.
WADE: It looks pretty hopeless, don't it?
HAND: No, not exactly. I'll look at the divorce decree, see if we can get it redrawn. Interview your daughter. Jill, right?
WADE: Fine. I'll need a $500 retainer. You can mail it.
HAND: Fine. I'll need a $500 retainer. You can mail it.
WADE: Jesus. How much. how much will the whole thing cost?
HAND: Hard to say. If we go for custody, depositions, psychiatric evaluations, it could drag on. Ten or twelve thousand dollars. She could win on appeal. If we just want to get the visitation rights redrawn, assuming they're unduly restrictive, it wouldn't be more than twenty-five You might be better off legally as well as financially to just go for Yeah. I know. The custody suit thing was just my getting back at her. I'm not as dumb as I look. Whatever you say. I love my daughter. I'll send you the five hundred.
WADE: ( sensing situation ) You might be better off legally as well as financially to just go for Yeah. I know. The custody suit thing was just my getting back at her. I'm not as dumb as I look. Whatever you say. I love my daughter. ( Hand nods ) I'll send you the five hundred.
HAND: ( sensing situation ) You might be better off legally as well as financially to just go for Yeah. I know. The custody suit thing was just my getting back at her. I'm not as dumb as I look. Whatever you say. I love my daughter. ( Hand nods ) I'll send you the five hundred.
WADE: Yeah. I know. The custody suit thing was just my getting back at her. I'm not as dumb as I look. Whatever you say. I love my daughter. I'll send you the five hundred.
WADE: Sorry about the long lunch. My clutch is going out again.
LARIVIERE: You ever think of getting a new car, On what you pay me?
WADE: On what you pay me?
LARIVIERE: Elaine! Call Chub Meritt and have him pick up Wade's car, fix the Use the pickup. I'll bill it to the town. You're the town police officer and the town police officer should have a decent car. You want a new car or not?
LARIVIERE: ( to Wade ) Use the pickup. I'll bill it to the town. You're the town police officer and the town police officer should have a decent car. You want a new car or not?
WADE: What do I have to do for it?
LARIVIERE: Nothing, Wade, I've been thinking. You don't get enough appreciation around here and it's time we changed things a little.
WADE: I saw Mel Gordon in here this morning.
LARIVIERE: He say anything about the summons I tried to give him? Sonofabitch wouldn't accept it.
WADE: He say anything about the summons I tried to give him? Sonofabitch wouldn't accept it.
LARIVIERE: Wade, that wasn't smart. Going out right after the man's father-in-law shot himself. Let it go. Call it a favor to me.
WADE: You? Why?
LARIVIERE: Mel's doing some business with me. It's nice to do favors for people you do business with. He was in a hurry. No big deal.
WADE: That was before Twombley was shot. Before he knew.
LARIVIERE: What's the difference? Take my truck, take a rest stop worrying about Mel Gordon. Have you decided what to do with your old man's place he going to stay there?
WADE: ( takes out cigarette ) Want to buy?
LARIVIERE: Don't light that in here. I'm I won't. You interested?
WADE: I won't. You interested?
LARIVIERE: You and Mel Gordon?
WADE: You and Mel Gordon?
LARIVIERE: Could be.
WADE: ( voice rising ) Always count on old Wade for a good screwing. Why should I always pay more, sell cheap? Why should you guys make all the money. You and Mel and Jack. Right's right.
LARIVIERE: ( waving arms ) Out! Out!
JACK: You crazy sonofabitch! You'll sink us both! Get off the fucking ice! Get off!
JACK: I'll shoot you, Wade, I swear it! I'll fucking shoot you dead if you don't move away from that truck!
JACK: Don't move! I'll shoot you dead if you move!
NICK: Your father's in back, Wade. Marg had to babysit him. She moved in with you, huh? What happened?
POP: Ah, the prodigal son.
NICK: About fucking time.
POP: Look, got me a new job, second cook and bottle washer!
MARGIE: What happened?
WADE: Jesus Christ, Pop, let's go home. I got waylaid. Sorry.
POP: The fuck you got waylaid. You follow your prick around like it was your Can it, Whitehouse. Get him out of here. It was funny at first, but I'm tired.
NICK: ( enters ) Can it, Whitehouse. ( to Wade ) Get him out of here. It was funny at first, but I'm tired.
MARGIE: There's clothes in the back.
POP: Let's go home? What home is that? Your home? My home? Let's have a talk about that. You're fucking sly, Wade. Your mother's dead so she can't make any excuses for you anymore! You gotta deal with me! No more sugar tit, asshole.
WADE: Pop, for Christ's sake!
POP: You think you can take me now? Come on, try.
NICK: Marg, get out of this. Fast.
MARGIE: I can't.
WADE: I wish you would die.
MARGIE: Stop it! Stop it! Just stop it!
WADE: Then you accidentally see your body, or your face, or whatever, and you don't know who the hell it belongs to. Strange. It's the business with the old man, I know, and how incredibly pissed I was at him, and also chasing Jack Hewitt like that, and the Goddamned truck going through the ice, not to mention Margie's being so upset one thing on top of another.
WADE: But you gotta hear this. You won't believe it. Mel Gordon had come by to visit LaRiviere and so now I'm in his office.
LARIVIERE: He's on to us!
JACK: Shit! What are we gonna do?
LARIVIERE: Maybe I can buy him off. I gotta talk to Mel.
JACK: You can't buy Wade off.
LARIVIERE: We bought you.
JACK: That was me.
ALMA: Wade! Come in! Have a cup of coffee.
WADE: You got yourself a computer, Alma.
ALMA: Been putting my files into it. You take sugar and milk?
WADE: No. Black.
ALMA: Are you alright, Wade?
WADE: Yeah, sure. Why? I got this damned tooth, I got a few things bugging me, like everybody else. But I'm Well, you look. sad. Upset. I don't mean to pry. I'm sorry about your mother. It was a nice funeral.
ALMA: Well, you look. sad. Upset. I don't mean to pry. I'm sorry about your mother. It was a nice funeral.
WADE: Alma, I think there's some dirty business going on in this town.
ALMA: Always has been.
WADE: This is maybe worse than you and I are used to. What I'm talking about, I'm talking about murder. Among other things.
ALMA: Evan Twombley, the union boss who got shot. Somebody murdered him.
WADE: Evan Twombley, the union boss who got shot. Somebody murdered him.
ALMA: You know Jack Hewitt, the kid I work
WADE: You know Jack Hewitt, the kid I work
WADE: .if Jack told the truth, he could be free by the time he's my age.
ALMA: Sometimes things are simpler than you think. Let me ask you a question.
WADE: You don't believe me?
ALMA: ( crosses to her desk ) About Jack? No. Have you checked out the tax bill on your father's farm I know he's due for the last two years. I was thinking of paying it when the insurance comes in.
WADE: I know he's due for the last two years. I was thinking of paying it when the insurance comes in.
ALMA: Has anybody offered to buy it?
WADE: As a mater of fact, yes. LaRiviere.
ALMA: This is all the real estate transactions in this town the last year. Most of it unused land. Most of it for little more than the back taxes owed.
ALMA: This is from three years ago. Some difference, huh?
WADE: ( looking ) What is the Northcountry Development I went down to Concord to check it out. The president is Mel Gordon. The vice-president and treasurer is Gordon LaRiviere. Those boys are buying up the mountain, Wade. $364,000 this year. I believe that's out of LaRiviere's league.
ALMA: I went down to Concord to check it out. The president is Mel Gordon. The vice-president and treasurer is Gordon LaRiviere. Those boys are buying up the mountain, Wade. $364,000 this year. I believe that's out of LaRiviere's league.
WADE: Twombley involved?
ALMA: He musta found out. They had to get rid of him. And Jack'll get blamed.
WADE: He musta found out. They had to get rid of him. And Jack'll get blamed.
ALMA: All the figures show is that Gordon LaRiviere is going to be a very rich man using his position as Selectman. In a year or two, you won't recognize this town.
WADE: You sneaky sonofabitch! I've got your number now, Gordon! All these years I actually thought you were a decent man. Can you believe that?
LARIVIERE: Wade, you're done. Let me have the shop keys.
WADE: ( to Jack and Jimmy ) You two, don't you get it? He's using you. You're his slaves. ( soft ) Jesus Christ, Jack, don't you see The key, Wade.
LARIVIERE: The key, Wade.
WADE: Yeah, you can have the key. It's the key that's kept me locked to you all these years. I give it to you with Now I'm free. See how easy it is, Jack? All you got to do is give back what the man gave you, and you're free of him. I've got to call my brother. I know what it means. I'm just running out of ways to use it.
CHICK: The good news is we haven't got to your car yet. The bad news
WADE: Just tell me when you'll have it with Gordon's truck what somebody drove through the ice last night. Figured you'd know something about that, Wade.
CHICK: the bad news is there's a problem with Gordon's truck what somebody drove through the ice last night. Figured you'd know something about that, Wade.
WADE: ( beat ) Yeah. I know about that.
CHICK: LaRiviere says he ain't gonna pay for the fixin' of your car. A couple hundred for the clutch. I got some more bad news. Wanna hear it?
WADE: Tell me.
CHICK: Chub says you're fired.
WADE: He can't fire me. LaRiviere already did that this morning.
CHICK: He's a Selectman. The town. He said to tell you to turn your badge in and clean out your office. I'm supposed to pull the CB and police light out of your car. They're town
WADE: What do you mean, you can't take me today? I told you
MARGIE: What on earth is happening to you? Why are you acting this way?
WADE: It's my tooth! My fucking tooth! I can't even think anymore because of I heard you talking. You got fired this morning, didn't you?
MARGIE: I heard you talking. You got fired this morning, didn't you?
WADE: Look, that's temporary, believe me. There's so much shit gonna hit the fan the next few days, my getting fired by LaRiviere and Merritt won't matter a bit.
WADE: I'll get another job. People are going to need me. After this is over, they'll make me into a Goddamned hero. You wait: you'll see, I'll deliver. I'll be the best father who ever lived. You need me, even Pop, for Christ's sake, he needs me. This town needs me. Maybe now they think they can send me howling into a corner like a kicked dog, but my God, it'll be different soon.
WADE: Leave the bottle out!
LILLIAN: Wait there. She'll be right out. Is there snow on the ground up in Yeah, lots.
WADE: Yeah, lots.
LILLIAN: ( to Jill ) See. Get your boots.
WADE: Hi honey.
JILL: ( going back inside ) Have her back tomorrow night by six.
LILLIAN: Have her back tomorrow night by six.
WADE: No problem. Look, I.
LILLIAN: You make me sick. I can't believe you've sunk so low.
WADE: Low as what? What have I done? It's bad to want to see your own daughter?
LILLIAN: You know what I'm talking about. For what you're doing to me and to the child you say you love so much. Love. You won't get away with it. Bye, honey! Call me tonight if you
LILLIAN: Bye, honey! Call me tonight if you
JILL: Are we going in this?
WADE: Yeah. My car's in the shop. This'll be fine.
JILL: It's pretty old.
WADE: It belongs to Pop.
JILL: Grandpa. My father. It's his.
WADE: Grandpa. My father. It's his.
JILL: Wade opens the truck door. Jill climbs in with her overnight bag, looks back to the door where Lillian watches.
WADE: ( winking ) How about a Big Mac?
JILL: Mommy won't let me eat fast food. You know that. It's bad for you.
WADE: C'mon, we can always sneak a Big Mac. And a cherry turnover. Your favorite. What do you say?
JILL: What do you want, then?
WADE: What do you want, then?
JILL: You can't have nothing, Jill. We need lunch. Mr. Pizza?
WADE: You can't have nothing, Jill. We need lunch. Mr. Pizza?
JILL: Same thing, Daddy. Mommy says
WADE: I know what Mommy says. I'm in charge today, though.
JILL: Okay. So we'll get what you want. What do you want?
WADE: Nothing, I guess. I guess I can wait till we get home. Maybe we'll stop by Wickham's for a hamburger when we get to Lawford. That suit you? You always like Wickham's.
JILL: ( looking ahead )
WADE: Pause. Wade looks over at Jill and realizes she is crying.
WADE: Oh, Jesus, Jill, I'm sorry. What's the matter, honey?
WADE: Please don't cry. Please, honey.
JILL: ( regains composure ) What are you sorry for?
WADE: I don't know. For the food business. I guess. I just thought, you know, we'd sneak a Big Mac on Mommy, like we used to.
JILL: I want to go home.
WADE: ( quick ) You can't.
JILL: ( quiet ) That's illegal, you know.
WADE: I know.
JILL: You're a policeman.
WADE: Nope. Not anymore. I'm nothing
JILL: CUT TO:
WADE: Jillie, you want a cheese grilled It's called a grilled cheese sandwich, you dub.
NICK: It's called a grilled cheese sandwich, you dub.
WADE: Jill, please, it's alright. Nothing I want to go home.
JILL: I want to go home.
WADE: ( rigid ) Okay, let's go home, then.
NICK: ( delicate ) Wade, I got a message for you. ( Wade turns ) Jack Hewitt, he's looking for you. Wants you to clear your stuff out of his office in Town Hall.
WADE: His office. You mean my old office.
NICK: Well, I guess that's what he said.
WADE: He got his deer yet?
NICK: No, he's out now. Somewhere on the mountain. I'd stay away from him if I were you. He's real pissed.
WADE: Going somewhere, Margie?
MARGIE: I'm just cleaning out some of this stuff that's built up. For the rummage sale. And some things for the cleaners. And the laundromat.
WADE: Don't lie to me. You're leaving me, I can see that.
MARGIE: Don't be silly. Hi, Jill.
WADE: ( hurt )
MARGIE: ( crying ) Leave me alone! Leave me alone!
JILL: Leave her alone! Leave her alone!
MARGIE: ( to Jill ) Get in.
JILL: I want to go home. Will you take me
MARGIE: She closes the front door, starts the car. She backs out the In her rear view mirror she sees the image of Wade receding, standing frozen, staring down at the snow. Pop emerges from the house, looks at his son, grinning. Wade looks at his old man, that dumb devilish grin plastered on his father's face. Glen Whitehouse holds an empty whiskey bottle like a pistol. Hunters' gunshots echo in the distance.
POP: ( Satanic delight ) You! By Christ, you I know you. ( points bottle ) Yeah, you goddamn sonofabitch, I know you. You're a goddamn fucking piece of my heart!
WADE: ( dead ) You don't know me. You don't know ( beat ) So fuck you. Fuck you.
POP: Nah-nah-naw! You done done finally done it! Like a man done it. Done it right. I love you, you mean
WADE: Love! What the fuck do you know about Love! I'm made of love!
POP: Love! I'm made of love!
WADE: Call it what you want.
POP: Everything you know is from me.
WADE: You and me.
POP: You and me.
WADE: You and me.
POP: Where the Christ you going? You sonofabitch, you leave my fucking truck where it is! I need. Give me the Goddamn keys! I need to get me to town!
WADE: Nothing in the fucking house to drink. Not a fucking thing. My house, my money, my truck stolen!
POP: Nothing in the fucking house to drink. Not a fucking thing. My house, my money, my truck stolen!
WADE: I don't know you. My goddamn father and I don't know you.
WADE: I know you now. I love you too.
WADE: ( smiles ) Joke. You scared me.
THE END: Writers : Russell Banks Paul Schrader
