FIRST DRAFT: March 29, 1990 "But how will you die when your time comes, Narcissus, since you have no mother? Without a mother, one cannot love. Without a mother, one cannot die." - Hesse
ALIEN III: THE SCREEN IS BLACK A pinpoint of light appears. Red. An ember. Unseen BELLOWS blow.
GLASS FURNACE: The embers glow. Flame. The fire GROWS.
GLASS FACTORY: Flickering flame casts dancing shadows on wooden walls. Coarsely grained wood. Moisture blasted out by years of intense heat. Timbers split. Patched with new wood, it too now old and dry.
SMOKE: Billows up the walls. Hangs as an angry, black cloud amongst the rafters and beams of the vaulted ceiling. Almost obscures
A MAN: On a narrow LEDGE, twenty feet about the Glassworks' floor. His clothing is Medieval. A rough textured cassock. He is a MONK. LOUVERS are set into the wall. He angles them open. The smoke begins to escape. The Monk turns, raises arms and LEAPS from his lofty perch Gently gliding down to the floor with the aid of a FLOWING FOX a primitive hand-held pulley that runs down a rope. He lands next to the glass furnace, surrounded by
MORE MONKS: By their dress. With Blowing Iron and Pontil. They blow and shape the molten glass. Crack off the finished pieces. The old way.
BROTHER KYLE: Well would he guess the ascending of the star, Wherein his patient's fortunes settled were. He knew the course of every malady, Were it of cold or heat or moist or dry. Brother John, would-be Doctour of Physick. We see the object of his song:
BROTHER JOHN: Not yet forty. Strong features, but fear behind the eyes. The fear that comes from a lack of inner confidence. A good face, nonetheless. He stirs a thick mixture in a mortar. Next to him another MONK sits holding his arm out in front of him, cassock sleeve rolled up, revealing a vicious BURN.
BROTHER KYLE: Tend you quickly he will, with bottles from a shelf. But heals not, so easily, The ills which plague himself. Brother John stops stirring.
BROTHER JOHN: ( to Kyle ) He scoops the salve out with his fingers and applies it to the Burned Monk's arm. The Burned Monk INHALES sharpley as the cool mixture contacts the injured area.
BROTHER JOHN: ( to the burned Monk ) ( to Kyle ) Put those lungs of yours to better Yes, Doc Tor. Kyle laughs, removes the blowing iron from the molten glass a BLOB of white hot glass hanging on the end. He rolls the blob on the Marver, a flat, polished piece of iron, then begins to blow a bottle shaped container. John wraps a fray-edged cloth bandage around the burn.
BROTHER KYLE: Yes, Doc Tor. Kyle laughs, removes the blowing iron from the molten glass a BLOB of white hot glass hanging on the end. He rolls the blob on the Marver, a flat, polished piece of iron, then begins to blow a bottle shaped container. John wraps a fray-edged cloth bandage around the burn.
JOHN: Keep this from getting wet. Go home at late afternoon mealtime and don't come back to work today
BURNED MONK: But John
JOHN: I'll tell the Abbot. Just rest today. You're lucky you only burned yourself on the side of the furnace. If some of that glass had gotten on your arm He points to the top of his forearm.
JOHN: it would've burned clean through to the other side. He mimes a drop down from the bottom of his arm. The Burned Monk shudders at the thought. BELLS toll.
JOHN: That's late afternoon. Now get on.
BURNED MONK: Thank you, John. I
JOHN: You're welcome. Go! The Burned Monk trundles off, injured arm against his chest. John gathers his mortar, pestle, and extra bandages into a burlap sack. Kyle comes over.
KYLE: Good work.
JOHN: All right, but I'm no Father Anselm.
KYLE: You're yourself, that's better. Kyle pushes him through the door.
KYLE: The Abbot will be pleased.
JOHN: Don't what?
KYLE: Don't what?
JOHN: Please don't tell him. At least until I know if there's an infection.
KYLE: You want to be the Abbey's Physician, and you haven't learned the first rule: Don't worry about the patient. John's face drops.
KYLE: I shouldn't have. Sorry. Look, I know how you must
JOHN: You don't, but thanks anyway.
KYLE: Not coming down?
JOHN: I have someone waiting for me. Kyle disappears into the crowd. John moves up.
THE STAIRWAY: A river of brown cassocks running downstream. John is the only one moving against the flow. He exits the stairwell
JOHN: Come on, Mattias. The dog, MATTIAS, joins him in the hall. Monk and pet disappear up a flight of stairs. Past another dozen or so Monks who are on their way down.
PHILIP: Brother John.
JOHN: Brother Philip.
PHILIP: Feeding the mind instead of the body My training has taught me to feed what's Philip pats his broad stomach and heads down the hallway.
JOHN: My training has taught me to feed what's Philip pats his broad stomach and heads down the hallway.
PHILIP: As did mine. As long as you're alone. Enjoy yourself and remember, no book leaves the library.
JOHN: How could I forget? Have a good meal. John watches the corpulent librarian head down the stairs. When he's gone from sight John lifts the bottom of his cassock to reveal Mattias.
JOHN: They move into the library.
THE ABBOT: Leader of the monastery. In his seventies but looks younger. His Cassock is adorned with a large, ornately carved, wooden CHAIN in place of a rope belt. He crosses to the table. John closes the book and stands, head bowed in respect.
ABBOT: Mind? Just Philip, if he knew. I passed him on the way up. He said you'd come in alone. I knew better. He scratches the back of Mattias' neck.
ABBOT: Hello, Mattias. How are you, boy? The dog snuffles in response.
ABBOT: You know what Philip says about Mattias' hair and his breathing. You'll have to take him out of here.
JOHN: He likes when I read to him and I John looks down sheepishly. Though nearly forty, he feels almost adolescent in the presence of the Abbot. The Abbot pulls a large key from his pocket.
ABBOT: ( smiles ) Someone must have left this one unlocked. Take the book with you. He hands the key to John, who is shocked this is a great honor.
JOHN: Father, I ?
ABBOT: Kyle tells me you did a good job at the glassworks today.
JOHN: I'll reserve judgement until the patient John crosses to the shelf and unlocks his book. He returns the key.
ABBOT: It will get easier. Father Anselm was. an unexpected loss. You'll do fine. The Abbot walks towards the door.
ABBOT: Just have it back before the end of lunch. Oh And I didn't see you in here.
JOHN: Thank you. Let's go upstairs, boy. John takes his book Moves to a spiral wooden staircase. Mattias at his heels. Goes UP
JOHN: Walks to the shore of an inland SEA. Sits on a bare patch of wood. Looks up. His eyes grow accustomed to
JOHN: In the year of our Lord 1348 I, Brother Gerhado of the Minorite Abbey helped bury the Abbot and my sixty fellow monks, day by day, one by one, until I am the only one left. I stayed as long as I could bear it, then with my dog Mattias lifts his ears at this part. His favorite part.
JOHN: - fled. I have put this to parchment lest this pestilence - this Black Death - stay my hand. This was finished by another hand. John closes the book. Something catches his eye Something among the myriad points of light in the sky. Millions of miles away:
THE STAR: Growing brighter. Drawing nearer.
JOHN: Joined by three other MONKS. They are older than he. The Four men watch the sky.
THE STAR: Brighter still. Closer.
MORE MONKS: Two dozen. A hundred. They come up through the planet's surface. Out of wooden trap doors. Join the others. Days pass. Now three hundred. Necks bowed back. Mouths agape. A SUBTITLE identifies.
THE STAR: Fills the sky. Burns brighter still as it hits the planetoid's atmosphere.
JOHN: Is the first to hit the shore. Small leather and wood fishing boats tossed by the wake. His coracle is the first into the water. The others running up behind him. He cannot hear the SHOUTS of warning.
THE STAR: Ship. Star Ship. Sulaco escape vehicle #4 rocks on the water. White metal skin blackened by the heat.
JOHN: Rows right into it. His coracle pitches in the choppy surf. He scrambles onto the ship's cracked tile surface. Teeters balances moves to the unmistakeable HATCH. Looks around for a knob, a handle
KYLE: John! Wait ! Don't go in! John turns back to the open hatch. Machine recirculated air flows out. He feels it on the skin of his face. Cool. Cool, and artificial. It calls to him. He steps in. Swallowed by the blackness
COMPUTER VOICE: ( sotto ) Seal broken.seal broken. John finds himself moving towards the tube. Looks through the broken lid:
THE FLOOR: Drag marks. His eyes follow the stains to a pile of Bloody clothing against a control panel. A jumpsuit. Torn. Child size. The head of child's DOLL, but no body to be found.
JOHN: Looks back towards the door. Part of him wants to get the hell out here but he fights back his fear. He is a doctor - or trying to be - someone in here may need his help. He presses forward Averts his gaze from the clothing, UP to the blinking and glowing instrument panels and their myraid
LIGHTS: Pressure lights. Data lights. Warning lights. Thousands of lights. Like the stars in the sky. It's been decades since he's seen technology like this and never this close up. He steps further into the ship, his fear now replaced by fascination, follows the lights..
WOMAN: .taking pod four. The Crew of the SS Sulaco and all Marine commandoes are dead. Ship's sensors have interrupted the hyper sleep cycle. An overlooked alien egg has hatched. Bishop and Hicks have been killed. Xenomorphs have infested the cruiser. Newt and I are taking pod four. The Crew of. The WARNING TONE of the Woman's message rekindles John's fear. He moves more hesitantly around the periphery of the ship, following the trail of blinking instruments Drawn to touch a button. Click.
A WOMAN: The woman from the screen. This is RIPLEY. In hypersleep. Wearing a white cotton tank top and boxer-type shorts. Christ, she looks beautiful. John looks from Ripley to her image on the monitor, then back. Sinks to his knees, reverent. Fascination has replaced fear again. Moves his face closer to the lid. Closer to hers. DAYLIGHT spills in John's head WHIPS towards the source of the light
THE DOOR: Open. Kyle and the other monks.
KYLE: John - what is it? Is this a Supply ship?
JOHN: No. No supplies. Kyle, there's someone in here The Second Monk looks at Kyle.
SECOND MONK: This is forbidden.
KYLE: John. Just get the hell out of there
JOHN: I don't want to stay. I have to get her out before this sinks. You come in, give me a hand
KYLE: Her? Look, this is not the supply ship, so this is technology forbidden to us. Get out of there now! John looks down at Ripely. A KEYPAD is mounted at the head of the tube. A red button: "EMERG-OPEN" That's plain enough.
JOHN: All right He presses it. The Tube opens with a loud BLAST of compressed air. The Monks at the door recoil at the sound.
FIRST MONK: ( reverent ) A space ship.
SECOND MONK: ( even more reverent )
KYLE: You shouldn't have gone in
JOHN: I'm supposed to be a doctor. He pushes Ripley's hair away from her forehead.
JOHN: She could've been lost.
FIRST MONK: Been a long time since I saw either.
SECOND MONK: It isn't sinking. Look at it. What are we supposed to do with it?
KYLE: What was it like in there ?
JOHN: Lights. So many lights
THIRD MONK: Tow it in. Bring it in.
SECOND MONK: It's evil.
FIRST MONK: It's just technology.
SECOND MONK: Evil technology. Look at these fish
THIRD MONK: The Abbot will know what we should do with it
KYLE: Just lights?
JOHN: Machines. Buttons. Metal.
SECOND MONK: See? Just look at the fish.
THIRD MONK: The Abbot will know.
SECOND MONK: They're boiled. These fish are boiled.
JOHN: Thousands of lights. Like the stars. Like Heaven on Earth. Ripley stirs in John's arms. Groans. Fights to come out of her fugue state. Looks around through half-lidded eyes She is surrounded by rowing, cassocked Monks. MONKS? She closes her eyes. Tries to clear the imagine. Opens: They're still there. She looks down at the bloodied hands around her waist realizes she's sitting on someone's lap. Looks back over her shoulder
JOHN: He smiles at her. Friendly, not sexual.
RIPLEY: Shakes her head. Tries to speak Her lips form soundless words. She looks over her other shoulder, sees
RIPLEY: Brows knit. Fights the cobwebs in her brain. Tries to focus on the ship Turns to John, tries to speak
RIPLEY: Wait. New. She loses consciousness.
JOHN: Sits next to her. Quite asleep. Hands swathed in white bandages. Book resting on his lap. She squints to make the figure standing in the shadows behind him it's skin picks up and reflects tiny points of flickering cangle light - seems to ripple as it moves
THE ALIEN: Big, black shiny-smooth head moves into the taper light. It moves towards her, cable-like arms held out at its side moving out of sync with its feet Ripley tries to move - to cry out She can't. She can only move her eyes. She looks over at John, sleeping peacefully. He doesn't notice the Alien The Alien moves closer. She can feel his breath it evaporates the sweat on her forehead a CHILL runs through her but she still can't move The Alien stands alongside her bed. Extends a six-fingered hand. Gently rests it on her stomach. Cocks its head like it's listening to something. The implication is clear. Ripley finds her voice
RIPLEY: Her eyes open wide She sits bolt upright. A hand moves to her forehead. Gently pushes her head back to the pillow. John's.
AAAAAAAAAAAARGH!: Her eyes open wide She sits bolt upright. A hand moves to her forehead. Gently pushes her head back to the pillow. John's.
JOHN: You're out of it. Out of it. Ripley falls back, eyes glued to where the alien appeared. John sees her focal point, looks back over his shoulder: Ripley's eyes roll back into her head. She tries to speak It was there. Her hand, at her side, tightens into a fist John's hand covers hers. Eases the fingers open again. She feels the coarse bandages against her palm. He starts to read quietly from Saint Augustines' Confessions. She begins to drowse again as his soft voice flows over her like waves lapping against the shore.
ABBOT: How is the woman, John?
JOHN: I don't think she's here yet. At the sound of John's voice the SLIGHTEST smile plays across Ripley's sleeping lips.
JOHN: She is close, though. As they continue talking, Ripley wakes. Opens her eyes. Rolls over onto her side There is a window right next to the bed. Ripley lifts herself up on one elbow, looks out:
HER POV: Garden of Earthly delights. Monks laboring under a beautiful, celestial blue sky picking apples, fishing on the water on small inland lakes. Working with hammer and saw on small wooden cottages. Lyrical. It makes her feel good. She scans the countryside. Sheep graze around wooden ladders stretching hundreds of feet up to the Ripley does a take
RIPLEY: What the hell ?
SUDDENLY: SWINGS past her window suspended by ropes. Then disappears up, out of sight. Ripley checks her pulse.
RIPLEY: This must be a dream. A bad one. She rolls back onto the bed. Stares up at the ceiling.
RIPLEY: Hears the SOUND and then another - her door OPENING. She turns to find the Abbot and John standing in the doorway. John waits in the doorway as the Abbot crosses to the chair by the bed and sits.
RIPLEY: Who are you?
ABBOT: I am the Abbot. Leader of this Colony. And you? He smiles. Open. Friendly.
RIPLEY: Ripley. How did I get here?
ABBOT: Your vehicle crash landed. Brother John found you and brought you here.
RIPLEY: Where is here?
ABBOT: This is the Minorite Abbey within the manmade orbiter Arceon.
RIPLEY: Can I use a radio to
ABBOT: We have no radio here. We are a monastic order that has renounced all modern technology. We live the old way. The pure She shakes her head.
RIPLEY: Uh, I - I still don't feel 100%. Whoever took me out of the stasis tube must not have run the full D-F program. Where's Newt? The Abbot looks at her blankly.
RIPLEY: There was a little girl with me
ABBOT: You were alone.
RIPLEY: No. She was with me. I put her in her stasis tube We launched when the
ABBOT: You were the only living thing found aboard that vessel. The Abbot watches Ripley as the terrible truth overcomes her
RIPLEY: ( slowly ) Oh, God. Newt. She stops gets that chill up her spine She realizes that she MUST have brought the Alien with her.
RIPLEY: It came with us. The Abbot leans in.
ABBOT: What came with you?
RIPLEY: Listen there is a danger here. It came with me. How long have I been here?
ABBOT: Almost two days
RIPLEY: ( calculates ) Loose for two days. This planet could be overrun within the week. Ripley grabs the Abbot by his cassock
RIPLEY: Look, there's a xenomorph An Alien creature. A killer. A monster. And now it's here. The Abbot looks at her the way you look at that guy on the corner of Santa Monica and 3rd who's babbling about Judgement Day. The guy with his pants down around his kness. She sees this, releases her hold on him.
RIPLEY: Calm down, Ripley. Okay, I was with a platoon of Colonial Marines on a mission to planetoid LV426. We left Earth six months ago - maybe a year
ABBOT: ( interrupts ) Wait a moment The Abbot becomes aware of John's presence in the doorway. Turns over his shoulder at him.
ABBOT: Leave us. John waits there a beat, then backs out and closes the door.
ABBOT: We launched in the Cruiser Sulaco from Gateway sub-orbital space station
RIPLEY: We launched in the Cruiser Sulaco from Gateway sub-orbital space station
ABBOT: Not possible.
RIPLEY: What do you mean?
ABBOT: When we left Earth seventy years ago, it was on the brink of a New Dark Age. Technology was on the verge of destroying the planet's environment. A computer virus was threatening to wipe away all recorded knowledge. There didn't seem to be any way it could be averted. In the almost forty years since we were towed out here in hypersleep, the news that came with occasional supply ships only got worse. Finally, the ships stopped coming. We had to resign ourselves to the fact that worst had come to pass, and the Earth no longer existed. Now she gives him that look.
RIPLEY: ( slowly ) Uh.All right. Forget the Earth - How many people do you have here? Let's worry about them. Warn them A new look overtakes the Abbot's face. A look of fear. Now she's getting to him - or is she? He abruptly stands.
ABBOT: Your mind is troubled. You need to rest some more.
RIPLEY: I don't need rest - I need to get to your people. You've got to get to them tell them about the alien He heads for the door
ABBOT: I have had enough for now.
RIPLEY: Enough? Didn't you hear what I said? It could wipe out the entire population of this planet. It may have started already - Have there been any unusual deaths since I got here? The Abbot stops in the door -
ABBOT: No. And there won't be. The Abbot SLAMS the door behind him.
ABBOT: Bolt it. The guards move to bolt the door.
JOHN: What is it What's wrong?
ABBOT: Your patient is in a dangerous mental state. Nobody gets in or out until I say so.
JOHN: But I. Her meals
ABBOT: Father, I don't understand The Abbot turns and disappears down the hall. John looks from the departing Abbot to the two Guard/Monks.
JOHN: Father, I don't understand The Abbot turns and disappears down the hall. John looks from the departing Abbot to the two Guard/Monks.
WHAM!: John sits bolt upright A HYSTERICAL MONK bursts in. Rushes to John's table.
HYSTERICAL MONK: Brother John! You're here! The Abbot said you'd I need you're the My Sandy she's ill John tries to rub the fitfull sleep out of his eyes.
JOHN: HYSTERICAL MONK My Sandy she's ill John tries to rub the fitfull sleep out of his eyes.
HYSTERICAL MONK: My Sandy she's ill John tries to rub the fitfull sleep out of his eyes.
JOHN: Huh? A woman?
HYSTERICAL MONK: Sandy. My ewe. John returns his head to the table.
JOHN: One of your sheep? Jesus Christ. Call a vet.
HYSTERICAL MONK: Father Anselm was the vet. John looks under his arms at Mattias The dog just stares at him.
JOHN: You're no help. Okay, let me get my bag. All creatures great and small.
HYSTERICAL MONK: I just gave her dinner and she keeled over.
JOHN: So would I. It's freezing in here.
HYSTERICAL MONK: Been using the wood from the walls for the fire in my cabin.
JOHN: Haven't we all. John kneels at the ewe. She's breathing heavy. Rapidly. John puts his left hand down on the hay covered floor while he checks the animal's neck pulse with his right hand. She gives a weak "Baa-ah."
JOHN: May be pneumonia. Pitch some of that hay around her. Stop this damn cold breeze. The Hysterical Monk props the torch up in an empty bucket and retreives a crude iron pitchfork from the wall. Starts to pile hay around the fallen animal.
JOHN: First, I'll He sits up to reach for his back, then stops when he sees what's on his left hand
JOHN: Wait a minute. The Hysterical Monk stops on mid-pitch. John rubs the material between his fingers. Brings it close to his nose. Sniffs.
HYSTERICAL MONK: What is it?
JOHN: I don't know. It's all over the ground. Some sort of
HYSTERICAL MONK: What?! WHAT?!
JOHN: Jesus! Help m The ewe is shaking so violently that John is thrown back He knocks over the bucket the torch falls into the hay The light is cut off as the torch almost smothers. Then the hay starts to burn Weak fire light revealing: THE EWE EXPLODES -! Stomach BURSTS SPRAYING the two Monks with entrails and blood They start SCREAMING. The flickering FIRE LIGHT grows as.
JOHN: Face contorted, eyes glued to the burning creature. Heaving lungs push air through his diaphram, but no sound comes from his open mouth The Doctor in training has seen the devil.
RIPLEY: What the -? Four BURLY MONKS rush in and grab her. TEAR her out of bed
WHAM!: What the -? Four BURLY MONKS rush in and grab her. TEAR her out of bed
RIPLEY: What the -? Four BURLY MONKS rush in and grab her. TEAR her out of bed
ABBOT: You heard Brother Graham tell of the devil inside sheep's wool He motions towards the Hysterical Monk, sitting in the crowd.
ABBOT: An evil brought by this woman in her vessel of technology.
RIPLEY: Considers the faces that surround her. Fear. Hate.
RIPLEY: This can't be happening.
RIPLEY: You must listen to me! You're all in terrible danger! It came with me on the ship
ABBOT: We know that. At first we believed its arrival was a good omen. But it has only brought pestilence. Dead sheep. Dead fish.
RIPLEY: Yes, the ship brought it. Not evil. It brought the Alien. I told you, it's here.
ABBOT: We know the name of the evil it brought. It brought technology. Technology to destroy our planet, as surely as it destroyed the Earth.
RIPLEY: I was on the Earth less than a year ago. It's still there. People, cities, all still there! A murmur through the crowd. Some are listening to her. The Abbot looks around. He must be in command.
ABBOT: ( matter of fact ) All dead.
RIPLEY: ( screams ) It's still there! The Abbot smiles to himself for making her crack. He stands and begins to pace.
ABBOT: You could not have been on the Earth a year ago, because there is no Earth to be on for at least twenty years.
RIPLEY: I haven't been floating in space for twenty years. Let me get to my ship and I'll prove it.
TRIBUNAL MEMBER: This woman is a danger. She denies The New Dark Age. She denies reality.
RIPLEY: This is reality. There is a Xenomorph loose on this planetoid - a alien it must have stowed away on my ship must have Newt. Killed the girl I brought with me. You can't stop it. It goes inside you like an egg - grows - Explodes out of you - keeps growing into some sort of monster. Kills you Kills all of you. She looks at the Medieval people around her. They stare at her in complete confusion. To them, she does sound like a madwoman.
RIPLEY: Who are you people? Look at you all of you the way you're dressed. This isn't the Middle Ages. You're in space on a artifical planet. What are you doing out here? There, in the upper tier John. They make eye contact. She looks to him pleadingly.
RIPLEY: Isn't there anyone here who will John looks from Ripley to the Abbot. The Abbot stares him down. John turns away.
RIPLEY: ( defeated ) I guess not. I can't believe this. The gavel BANGS. The Abbot sits in a moment of contemplation.
ABBOT: Then there is no choice. The Four Monks grab Ripley roughly Bind her arms.
ABBOT: ( to Ripley ) The evil is inside you. I cast you down. To be sealed away. And God have mercy on your soul.
RIPLEY: You won't be able to fight it. You don't know what it is ! She's put into the cage. The door is secured. Two monks begins to pull the ropes. The cage is lifted out over the abyss a vast cavernesque space. The other Monks move closer. Crowd around the edge John pushes through them - right to the edge Watches as the cage is slowly lowered down. Ripley looks directly at John
RIPLEY: You've sentenced yourselves to John watches as she disappears down into the darkness. Then turns and pushes his way through the crowd Down the hall
ABBOT: No trouble?
ABBOT: I had that wood earmaked for the Cloister next winter. Well, we might not get to the winter if we don't take care of this. By winter time we can start taking the penitent cells apart. No one in them.
ABBOT: Neither are we He becomes aware of John's presence, and motions the other Tribunal members out of the room. John moves to the Abbot. The Abbot knows what's coming.
ABBOT: Go ahead.
JOHN: This woman. Ripley. I tended her
ABBOT: Yes, and you did a good job. You shouldn't feel responsible. You couldn't have known
JOHN: Please, sir, let me finish. I feel that there may be something to what she says.
ABBOT: There isn't. The Abbot moves to his table, begins to gather up his gavel, notebook. John follows him
JOHN: I don't understand what you are doing.
ABBOT: This colony is my responsibility. I am protecting the colony.
JOHN: From what? This woman? You never gave her a chance. How can you be so sure you're right?
ABBOT: A better question is what makes you think I'm wrong?
JOHN: You didn't see this thing this demon Brother Graham and I we both saw it.
ABBOT: ( realizes ) That's right. You both did. ( beat ) And what was it?
JOHN: I I don't know what it was. But I don't think Ripley was a party to it.
ABBOT: She admits she brought it.
JOHN: But she tried to warn us
ABBOT: You know that's how the devil works. But I believe her. I don't know how to describe it A feeling.
JOHN: But I believe her. I don't know how to describe it A feeling.
ABBOT: You haven't seen a woman in thirty years. Where does this feeling originate, John?
JOHN: ( points to his head ) I believe you. But your feelings are fooling you.
ABBOT: I believe you. But your feelings are fooling you.
JOHN: It's - It's her conviction. I just think The Abbot snaps at him
ABBOT: Don't think. John takes a step back at the Abbot's tone. A tone he's never heard before. The Abbot runs a hand through his thinning hair. Forces a smile.
ABBOT: It's been a long night. For all of us. You really don't understand what you're dealing with here.
JOHN: That's what she said. The Abbot chafes.
ABBOT: These are ideas which threaten the very system we live under. The creature is dead and the woman is gone. Forget them. Both. Go read. Go fishing. Go anywhere, but leave this alone.
JOHN: But I
ABBOT: Alone. I'll get Philip to let Mattias into the Library, all right? For your own good, just stay out of this. John looks like he's going to protest.
ABBOT: I mean it.
JOHN: ( slowly ) Yes, Father. John turns and leaves the room. The Abbot stares after him.
RIPLEY: Watching them work.
RIPLEY: Only her face is visible. Another board.
WORKER: Here you go, woman. Something from your ship. Something to keep you company He tosses it into the cell. Ripley catches it. Watches as the last of the light is covered over.
RIPLEY: You fucking idiots! You're dead! You're all dead! BEATS the walls. KICKS. SMASHES her HEAD against the wall. Her nose starts to bleed. Her hand goes to her nose. She squints in the darkenss. Sees the BLOOD. Tastes the iron taste in her mouth. Death is with her again.
RIPLEY: ( sotto ) The "widest" part of her cell, the middle, allows her to slide down into a sitting position. She does.
RIPLEY: Christ. Jesus Christ. It's here. Here. Shit. Here. I can't get rid of it. Looks at the Doll's head
RIPLEY: Newt. This isn't what I wanted. She throws the doll's head away It bounces off the wall and rolls back to an upright position so that it is staring at her.
RIPLEY: ( snaps ) Don't stare at me! VOICE O/S Ripley looks down at the base of the wall facing her Where it meets the floor, in the rotting timbers: A HOLE. In it:
JOHN: Picks his way through the mess. Like a man possessed he fumbles through book after book. The first golden rays of daylight filter through the huge stained glass windows. John rapidly flips through the Medieval tome in front of him - past an illustration of Satan depicted as having a FACE on his ASS further still then stops. This is it. We can't see what the illustration is, but we see his REACTION: His eyes open wide as saucers. SLAMS the book closed as if the image would strike blind. He turns to Mattias as if to say something Decides not to wake the sleeping dog. John wraps the book's chain around his hand and puts one foot up against the shelf. Pulls SPANKT! The old chain gives way. Face set, he loops the shoulder strap of his burlap medical bag over his shoulder. Clutches the book to his chest, gently pets his sleeping dog and goes.
JOHN: Now find John and have him brought to me immediately.
ABBOT: Start in the library. And keep it quiet. The Third Burly Monk nods and moves off. The Abbot watches him leave, then goes back into the room and closes the door. John stares at the closed door a beat and then makes up his mind. He turns and runs back down the hallway.
KYLE: At the glass furnace. About to dip his blowing iron into the MOLTEN GLASS. John runs over to him. Almost knocks him over
KYLE: Hey! Watch it! He sees that John is agitated
KYLE: What? What is it? The other monks begin to notice the commotion, start moving in for a look.
JOHN: I Abbot. Must John tries to catch his breath. He gestulates wildly. Kyle puts down his blowing iron.
KYLE: John - relax. Take a deep breath - Christ, now I sound like you He sees the book clutched in John's white knuckled hands.
KYLE: Is that it, John? Is it the book ?
JOHN: ( panting ) Yes. Devil. Kyle moves closer to him. Cautiously. John sees the other monks gathering around Closing in on him - whispering
WHISPERING MONKS: He's got it.
WHISPERING MONK: He's infected. John sees one of the Monks run out undoubtedly going to tell the Abbot. John looks into his friend Kyle's face Fear.
KYLE: Everything's gonna be fine. Now, let's see the
JOHN: Don't humor me I'm
KYLE: Sure. Everything's gonna be fine. If only he could explain - he can't. John YANKS the book away spins Bursts through the crowd.
KYLE: Wait JOHN!
LADDERS: Extending down through huge open areas beneath the upper level. Past vast underground viaducts that held up by wooden rafters. Beyond that - a great underground sea that marks the center of the planet - below that, the cells. And Ripley.
JOHN: Can smell the dank air from the lower tunnels. He MUST go down The hard way. He climbs into the darkness.
ABBOT: Cold tonight continuing to the last, Bald Tribunal Member.
ABBOT: And every day. Never this bad. Taken so much wood out of the structure the surface wind blows right through the colony. Right under the floor The Bald Tribunal Member SHIVERS as a cold breeze runs along the waste trough under the floor and chills the air in his bowl.
ABBOT: Matthew? Matthew? Jesus, what's wrong? SKINNY MONK washing his hands, sees all this. Looses control of his bodily functions as blood sprays from the faucet
OTHER MONKS: In their stalls as the toilets reject a torrent of gore! Blood and viscera spraying the walls converting the Abbey into an abattoir.
SPACE: Angle on the Orbitor Arceon: An orb of wood hands peacefully against a tapestry of celestial INT. RIPLEY'S CELL - NIGHT Darkness. Somewhere water drips into a puddle. Ripley lays on her side on the floor with her head resting near the hole in the floor. Her eyes are closed.
RIPLEY: Wherever I go. A HAND pushes a crust of bread through the hole. She opens her eyes to look at the food. The White-Haired Man's head appears
RIPLEY: Thanks, but no thanks, Anthony. She knows his name.
ANTHONY: You waiting for meat? They don't bring me meat because they know I'm an android. Really don't need it. Bread's better for you anyway. Harder to digest, so it makes you feel fuller than you are.
RIPLEY: Not hungry. Anthony takes a bite.
ANTHONY: Mmmm. Just a little crunchy. Ripley twists onto her back until she's staring up at the Waste of time.
RIPLEY: Waste of time.
ANTHONY: You don't eat, you'll starve to death, That was the plan when they put me down here. And why should you care?
RIPLEY: That was the plan when they put me down here. And why should you care?
ANTHONY: Because I'm a synthetic person you don't think I can care?
RIPLEY: Believe me, that's a discussion you don't want to have with me.
ANTHONY: You told me you had a bad experience and a good one with androids
RIPLEY: That's one of each. That means you could go either way. I'm tired of talking about He pushes the bread towards her again.
ANTHONY: You've still gotta eat. You gotta fight the bastards
RIPLEY: I'm tired of fighting. Maybe I'll be dead before he finds me. Maybe he won't get the satisfaction.
ANTHONY: He? You make it sound like this Alien has a personal score to settle with you. The biology you describe: Queen laying eggs, larvae, drone that's very insectoid. Insects usually don't bear And Androids usually aren't the prisoners of lunatics that believe they're ancient Medieval Monks.
RIPLEY: And Androids usually aren't the prisoners of lunatics that believe they're ancient Medieval Monks.
ANTHONY: Medieval Monks.
RIPLEY: And they've only chose to live the life style, they don't believe they're What's that? Ripley strains to listen. In the distance: KNOCKING. Someone is knocking on the walls. A VOICE calls out
ANTHONY: And they've only chose to live the life style, they don't believe they're What's that? Ripley strains to listen. In the distance: KNOCKING. Someone is knocking on the walls. A VOICE calls out
JOHN: ( hoarse ) He moves down the hallway. BANGS his fist against the walls every few feet Waits a moment for a reply, then moves on.
ANTHONY: Hey you knocking cut it out You're going to wake everybody up. John moves to Anthony's door. Looks at him through the slot. Anthony recognizes him.
ANTHONY: Brother John? John unbolts Anthony's door. Picks him up by his cassock
JOHN: Anthony? Thought you dead fifteen years.
ANTHONY: Made too good for that. What're you doing?
JOHN: I I'm looking the Abbot
ANTHONY: What? You look like you've seen the He has. Anthony turns to look back at Ripley moves aside so John can see her face at the hole
ANTHONY: You mean he Anthony turns back - John is gone.
RIPLEY: I was right, wasn't I? You've seen it, you've seen the Alien? John pauses at that. His eyes tighten at the memory.
RIPLEY: I can tell you have. I was right. It came with me. Go away. John stops. Looks at the wall. Ripley's voice comes clearly through the wood.
RIPLEY: Listen, priest, or whatever you are, I know what you want. I can't help you. I couldn't help any of the others. Just stop what you're doing. Go away. Do you understand? John has opened a crack that exposes Ripley's eyes. He stares at her a beat, tries to think of what to reply He goes back to work as she continues her confession.
RIPLEY: You going to stay, Father? But you're not going to talk. Okay. Then you can listen. You should listen. Your Abbot was right. I am guilty. But not of heresy. Of murder. John stops again. Just stares at her eyes.
RIPLEY: The murder of the crew of the Nostromo. That was when I first met the Alien. That reminds him of why he's here. He doubles his efforts at the boards.
RIPLEY: No, not the same one that's here now. Or maybe it is. Maybe they're all the same one. I couldn't save my crew then. I should have been able to. But I couldn't. When I went the second time Her eyes soften.
RIPLEY: Then I met Newt. Newt. I fought stayed alive to keep Newt alive. Hoped maybe that would make up for. She trails off. Slides down the wall.
RIPLEY: Now he got her too. What's the point? Just go away. Leave me in here. If you let me out you'll want me to help you and it will start all over again. Let it end. John breaks through, flickering torch light streams in the mote filled air around him. Ripley looks up at him.
RIPLEY: I can't help you. John, heaving and panting from the excertion. Puh. ( pant ) Please.
JOHN: Puh. ( pant ) Please.
RIPLEY: It never ends.
ANTHONY: It must be able to take on some of the characteristics of the animal it grows in. Maybe they are from some sort of aggressive soldier race warring parties drop the eggs on opposing planets
RIPLEY: And the alien takes on the form of the creature that finds it, assuming that animal is the dominant life form on the planet. So when it gestates in a man Ripley shudders at the memory.
ANTHONY: It's a biped. In a sheep or cow, a quadroped.
RIPLEY: Shit. I just didn't think it could do that to animals.
JOHN: Wait a minute - I thought you were the expert on this monster.
RIPLEY: Is that the only reason you came to get me out? Because I knew about this thing?
JOHN: Yes. I mean no. I mean, that was part of it. Look. I never thought you were wrong. I was wrong not to say anything. I was afraid to speak up. It's hard to be a monk, you know? Ripley stops. Looks at him. A long beat.
RIPLEY: Thank you. If anything, you're honest.
JOHN: We all are. Took vows.
RIPLEY: I don't know about the Abbot.
JOHN: I'm sure he thinks what he did was right.
RIPLEY: Is that speaking up for someone?
JOHN: No. Charity. She smiles. They turn a corner.
RIPLEY: All right, let's forget about the past and get on to our survival. No more prisoners behind us?
ANTHONY: Not for years.
RIPLEY: Okay If the Alien's had a few days to lay his eggs our only hope is to get off this - What is this?
JOHN: Get to my ship and get off this Satellite.
ANTHONY: Get to my ship and get off this Satellite.
RIPLEY: Get to my ship and get off this Satellite.
JOHN: We can't.
RIPLEY: We can't what?
JOHN: Leave Arceon. Can't leave the library
RIPLEY: A Tape Library?
JOHN: The reason we are out here. Like the Monks who guarded Monastery Libraries on remote islands off England during the First Plague
RIPLEY: The reason we are out here. Like the Monks who guarded Monastery Libraries on remote islands off England during the First Plague
JOHN: The reason we are out here. Like the Monks who guarded Monastery Libraries on remote islands off England during the First Plague
RIPLEY: There must be books on other colonies
JOHN: Some of these books survived the burning of the Libraries of Alexandria. They contain knowledge that exists in no other record. Their value is unestimable. He runs his hand along the spine of the book in his bag.
JOHN: We're supposed to protect them.
RIPLEY: ( to Anthony ) And what does an android have to do with all this?
JOHN: He's a spy.
ANTHONY: The Company planted me here.
RIPLEY: The Company? What does the Company have to do with this?
ANTHONY: They built this prison.
RIPLEY: Prison. They are all political heretics. Ripley looks at John.
JOHN: Prison. They are all political heretics. Ripley looks at John.
ANTHONY: Prison. They are all political heretics. Ripley looks at John.
RIPLEY: You left that part out.
JOHN: The order was more of a counter culture, a reaction to the Technology that was beginning to take over everyone's lives. It was a simple enough idea - Read, don't watch disk. Walk, don't pump more carbons into the air. The earliest members renounced technology. Started to collect the remaining books. Nobody would have noticed if it hadn't been for the Virus.
RIPLEY: Your Abbot talked about that. The New Plague.
ANTHONY: A computer virus. A bad program. By this time the Corporate structure was transglobal, all the world's data storage systems were linked. It spread through two countries before it was stopped.
JOHN: After a scare like that, thousands flocked to our retreat. People started clamoring for written information. For our books. They abandoned the modern ways
RIPLEY: I think I can see how this comes out. They gave up their possessions.
ANTHONY: This was a threat
RIPLEY: To the Company.
JOHN: They sold the technology. A movement to live simply was quickly twisted by Federal agents into a political movement against the Company-controlled World Government. Too much was at stake.
RIPLEY: Too much profit.
JOHN: We were sentenced as political dissidents. This orbiter is our gulag. All the men were packed up with all our books, and towed into space. Ten thousand men. The eldest died very quickly.
RIPLEY: The Company had such a sense of irony. Sending you out on this wooden tub.
ANTHONY: I was placed among them as a sensor. Keeps tabs on the movement.
RIPLEY: So how'd they find out about you?
ANTHONY: I told them. After the supply ship's stopped coming I saw no point in keeping up the charade. Since I was a sort of walking reminder of technology, they cast me down.
RIPLEY: Join the club. I figured this wasn't planned. You don't have to be a genius to see it wouldn't be prudent to try to preserve man's written works for generations without women. John looks embarrassed.
RIPLEY: And I don't know about your New Plague, but I was just on Earth and everything's John has a doubtful look.
RIPLEY: I was right about the Alien, wasn't I? Means I must be right about the Earth. The logic behind her argument is uncomfortable.
JOHN: ( beat ) That's better than nothing. Come on. They reach the end of the corridor. It opens into
RIPLEY: That's better than nothing. Come on. They reach the end of the corridor. It opens into
RIPLEY: At any rate, let's forget about the Earth completely - whether you're right or I'm right what's important is getting the hell out of here. From here my ship John points up at the ceiling.
ANTHONY: In Heaven.
RIPLEY: Right. And this is. Anthony and John nod.
ANTHONY: This orbiter was patterned after a medieval concept of the universe They call the top half "Heaven - "
JOHN: The Abbey, the fields
ANTHONY: The bottom half is "Hell." Where we are.
RIPLEY: Aptly named. What's in the middle?
JOHN: The sea.
ANTHONY: Work with me here. How far is it back to the surface of the planet?
RIPLEY: Work with me here. How far is it back to the surface of the planet?
JOHN: As a stone falls - Five miles through the center.
RIPLEY: And the elevator the thing they lowered me down in?
JOHN: Ropes cut.
ANTHONY: It's smart. First he cuts their escape off, then works his way down through the monastery level by level until there isn't a thing left alive. Interesting.
RIPLEY: Well, you start appreciating him more than me and I'll find a way to shut you down, capisce, Andy? How do we get up?
JOHN: There are ladders. She stops. John and Anthony continue on a few steps and then stop and walk back to her.
RIPLEY: Five miles with the Alien between us and there? Good luck, boys. She turns and heads back towards her cell John catches her shoulder
JOHN: You can't
RIPLEY: Can't what? Not help you go to your deaths? I've had my fill of that.
JOHN: I need you. I can't do it alone.
RIPLEY: I've fought these creatures twice before. It take a lot to kill these things. Heavy artillery.
ANTHONY: We don't have weapons here.
RIPLEY: How about something we can make weapons from? Do you have anything like that any modern things here? John SHAKES his head vehemently
JOHN: We renounced technology. It was those things that caused the Plague.
RIPLEY: This is a man-made planet. Something has to be recirculating your air, your water.
JOHN: I don't know. I just took it for granted.
RIPLEY: I don't know. I just took it for granted.
JOHN: I don't know. I just took it for granted.
RIPLEY: Most people do. Without some sort of technology we haven't got a chance. From behind them:
ANTHONY: There is technology. John and Ripley turn to look at him.
ANTHONY: A room. A Technology room. Fresh air and water come out.
RIPLEY: An atmosphere processing plant
ANTHONY: The heart and lungs of Arceon.
RIPLEY: Where is it?
ANTHONY: One level beneath the underground sea.
JOHN: That's five levels up
ANTHONY: ( points into the gloom ) On the other side of the orbiter. John looks at Ripley
JOHN: A chance. Ripley looks from John's earnest face to the darkness and back.
RIPLEY: All right. You've got me - so far. But here's the deal: I don't know how many of your brethren are going to be alive when we get up there, but if we make it to my ship, you're all coming with me. We'll take as many of your precious books as we can carry, but we're going. I'm not going to fight this thing again to end up alone again. Understand? John nods his head.
RIPLEY: We're all dead anyway. We might as well go fi She feels a TWINGE in her midsection Doubles over. Anthony and John each take an arm
RIPLEY: Ugh - I'm all right. She takes a deep breath.
RIPLEY: Still thawing out. I hate hyper sleep. Come on.
THE CEILING: A lattice-work of suspended troughs and wooden pipes the "plumbing," the understructure, of the Monastery.
THE MONKS: Descend the ladders single file. Fear is in all of their faces though most have only heard the stories. They move cautiously into the wheat. Spread out through the field in the jaggedly drawn skirmish line.
THE ABBOT: The Bald Tribunal Monk's dried blood splattered on his cassock, stands atop an empty wooden wagon. From this vantage point he THE MONKS IN THE FIELD THRASH and POKE their way forward leaving trails through the high grass. Their attempt at an orderly progression quickly falls apart as they get strung out all over the field.
ABBOT: ( sotto ) Stay together. Together. Then another movement catches the Abbot's eye AHEAD of the Monks - the wheat waves against the wind. Begins to ripple the wheat flattens. a TRAIL forms. SomeTHING is MOVING in the long grass. Moving towards the Lead Monk FAST. The Abbot opens his mouth as if to shout a warning - even though the Monk closest to the moving trail is too far away to hear him - before he can make a sound The Alien closes the gap - Feeling horribly helpless he can only watch as AARGH-Aa -! The Lead Monk gives one strangled CRY before he disappears beneath the surface of the long grass. His taper falls among the long, dry stalks begins to SMOKE. The Abbot can see the trail moving towards his men before they can. He finds his voice:
ABBOT: Run! RUN! The Monks in the field turn from the spot where the Monk screamed towards the Abbot TURN THEIR BACKS to the now moving again trail
ABBOT: No - NO. The The Alien hits the skirmish line at a flanking angle RAKING through five Monks like a scythe through wheat. His tail, arms WHIP out SNAP their spines like kindling. Lost torches ignite the wheat. The field BURSTS INTO FLAME. Smoke fills the air. In the smoky commotion the Monks break rank and start running. Weapons in front of them SWINGING wildly Screaming. Crying. DYING. One Frightened Monk runs through another with his pitchfork. Another hears something crashing through the grass towards him and buries his scythe in his best friend's chest. And through it all the Alien seems to be everywhere. Using the chalky smoke for cover as it SLASHES and TEARS its way across the field
THE ABBOT: Frozen in terror to the spot. Squints through the smoke to see what has happened to his flock. Hears the WAILS of defeat rising up from the wounded. The waving grass is flattened as The Alien moves towards him He can finally pry himself from his perch on the wagon. He climbs down. As his feet hit the wooden floor he feels a shadow fall over him. The little hairs on the back of his neck stand up. He slowly turns.
THE ALIEN: Rises out of the grass in front of the Holy Man. Slowly rises up to its height of almost three meters. It's long, smooth head is no longer black and slimy. It is golden. It's cable-like arms are sheathed in a straw-like covering. It has adapted to the environment of the wheat field. Its now grass-like lips draw back into a ghastly parody of a smile. The Abbot SCREAMS and RUNS.
RIPLEY: Those things you said before Ripley remembers her "confession."
JOHN: Those things you said before Ripley remembers her "confession."
JOHN: I read about it in psychology books. Sometimes when people outlive someone they cared for, they transfer some of the guilt for that person's death to I got a belly full of that from the Psychtechs when I was on Earth. Yeah. "Survivor Guilt syndrome," or something like that. But that's not what I was thinking about. I was thinking about my "friend" up there. She looks up.
RIPLEY: I got a belly full of that from the Psychtechs when I was on Earth. Yeah. "Survivor Guilt syndrome," or something like that. But that's not what I was thinking about. I was thinking about my "friend" up there. She looks up.
RIPLEY: He was on the pod. He killed Newt but not me. Why not me? It's almost like he's playing with me. Maybe they have some sort of race memory. Maybe he knows what I did to his "mother." That's why he didn't just kill me. That would be too easy. He has to torment me.
JOHN: You make it sound human.
RIPLEY: Hell, I don't know what it is. John unconsiously fingers his book.
JOHN: I think I do.
RIPLEY: Down the corridor HEARS the scream, turns back sees Anthony fighting with himself, struggling against John's grasp -
ANTHONY: Balanced precariously on the top of the ladder in the real world as he fights against the demons in his android mind He JERKS Pulls his left ankle out of the grasp of the DEMON SHEEP OFF the ladder - forty foot drop waiting below him.
JOHN: Struggles to keep his death grip on Anthony's hand. It's all that keeps Anthony from falling back down the shaft
JOHN: Jesus Christ. Ripleeeee -! He PULLS with all his might.
ANTHONY: SEES a horrible BIRD-DEMON grasping his hand in its beak BITING through his wrist. He waves his staff in the air He aims for its head:
WHACK!: HITS Ripley on the head.
WHACK!: John tries to take hold of Anthony's staff arm
WHACK!: Ripley sets her feet and pulls on Anthony's cassock Opens her mouth - GRUNTS ANTHONY sees the terrible Alien open it's maw to devour him.
WHACK!: She sees flashes of light loses her balance Pitches forward, starts to go over with Anthony
JOHN: Breathing heavy - opens his eyes He's staring right into Ripley's face. Less than an inch away. He's laying on top of her. She's breathing heavy too. A long, uncomfortable moment.
RIPLEY: You're welcome. They roll off each other. Her hand goes up to her nose. I'm all right. John reaches into his bag, withdraws a small cotton bag.
JOHN: You're welcome. They roll off each other. Her hand goes up to her nose. I'm all right. John reaches into his bag, withdraws a small cotton bag.
RIPLEY: I'm all right. John reaches into his bag, withdraws a small cotton bag.
JOHN: Hold this against your nose. It'll stop the flow. She looks over at him questioningly.
JOHN: I'm a doctor. She holds the small bag against her nose. The bleeding stops. They move over to Anthony - try to help him to his feet. He shakes them off.
ANTHONY: No - please. Just let me sit. He rubs his temples. White, milk-like sweat runs down his Damn it.
ANTHONY: Damn it.
RIPLEY: What was that?
ANTHONY: The reason I'm down here. John points to his own eyes.
JOHN: Androids can't dream.
ANTHONY: Androids can't dream.
RIPLEY: Androids can't dream.
ANTHONY: That's probably what they thought when they built me. But my brain is cyber- organic - patterned after the human brain - it functions the same way a human brain does. It accumulates random images and sensations during waking hours, but unlike the human brain that sloughs them off during sleep
RIPLEY: Androids don't sleep.
ANTHONY: Right. Maybe they've fixed this on later models, but I don't. Do you know what happens to the human brain when it is deprived of sleep? It starts to run off the dreams while you're awake, as hallucinations. Same thing with me. For twenty years I absorbed data on this planetoid. A little after we lost contact with Earth the visions started. They thought I was insane. I had to explain that it was because I was an android. They liked that even less.
RIPLEY: What did you see?
ANTHONY: What I always see. Images of Monsters. They're portents. They stand for an evil yet to come.
JOHN: They're portents. They stand for an evil yet to come.
ANTHONY: Just images I've absorbed from those old books and have no way to get rid of.
RIPLEY: I saw the inside of your cell.
ANTHONY: ( shrugs ) My head is full of them. I try to get them out any way I can. His eyelids droop.
JOHN: You need sleep.
ANTHONY: I know that. I'll settle for rest. He closes his eyes. Ripley recovers the torch.
RIPLEY: Stay with him. Ripley tried to stand - John takes her arm, pulls her down.
JOHN: No. We all need rest. You especially. Ripley considers him.
JOHN: Doctor's orders. She smiles and sits.
JOHN: Besides, you see what happens when you get ahead of us. We should stay together.
RIPLEY: All right. He's still above us, anyway.
JOHN: What do you mean?
RIPLEY: I've faced this evil twice before - I guess I've gotten sensitive to it You're really a Doctor? John pats his canvas bag.
JOHN: See my bag?
RIPLEY: What's that book?
JOHN: Just a book.
RIPLEY: I don't buy "just a book" from a guy who says we can't leave the planet without the library.
JOHN: It's just. a medical book I might need.
RIPLEY: You don't have any food in there, do you?
JOHN: Only if you can eat bandages. Ripley rubs her midsection.
RIPLEY: In a few hours that's going to sound good. Going in and out of suspended animation - Christ I probably haven't eaten in a year.
ANTHONY: ( without opening eyes ) You should've eaten the bread.
JOHN: You all right?
RIPLEY: You weren't hurt when I landed on you? Bruised a rib? He reaches over and puts his hands beneath her cassock. Feels her midsection. His hands are warm.
JOHN: You weren't hurt when I landed on you? Bruised a rib? He reaches over and puts his hands beneath her cassock. Feels her midsection. His hands are warm.
RIPLEY: Are you sure you're a doctor? He withdraws his hands.
JOHN: Sort of. My father passed on when we first came here. The Abbey's Physician - Father Anselm - took me in. He really raised me Taught me what he could before he passed away. He was schooled on Earth.
RIPLEY: Well, I'm just hungry.
JOHN: You haven't eaten since I took you out of your tube.
RIPLEY: You did that. She reaches out and takes hold of his hands. Turns them over.
RIPLEY: You burned yourself on the escape pod. Her hands on his makes him feel.uncomfortable.
RIPLEY: Thank you, I guess. They look into each other's eyes
ANTHONY: Enough rest. There's beasties afoot. They start into.
JOHN: ( sniffs ) Mixed with sea water.
ANTHONY: We're getting close to the center of the arc near the sea.
RIPLEY: Getting close. John HEARS somthing. Raises his hand "stop" The group stops. Flatten themselves against the wall. John takes Anthony's staff. Moves forward with it held out in front of him. WHIRLS around a blind corner SHOVES something against the wall It struggles Ripley and Anthony run up raise their tapers The Abbot. Cassock torn, dirty. Hair, eyes wild. Anthony's staff across his throat. John pulls back.
JOHN: Getting close. John HEARS somthing. Raises his hand "stop" The group stops. Flatten themselves against the wall. John takes Anthony's staff. Moves forward with it held out in front of him. WHIRLS around a blind corner SHOVES something against the wall It struggles Ripley and Anthony run up raise their tapers The Abbot. Cassock torn, dirty. Hair, eyes wild. Anthony's staff across his throat. John pulls back.
RIPLEY: The Abbot. Cassock torn, dirty. Hair, eyes wild. Anthony's staff across his throat. John pulls back.
JOHN: ( sarcastic ) What are you doing down here, father? You look like you've seen something that doesn't exist. The Abbot runs his fingers through his hair. Smoothes it down.
RIPLEY: ( sarcastic ) What are you doing down here, father? You look like you've seen something that doesn't exist. The Abbot runs his fingers through his hair. Smoothes it down.
ABBOT: I was their spiritual leader. I was not prepared to lead them in battle. Not against that thing.
JOHN: No one could be.
RIPLEY: I thought you said the evil was inside me that sealing me up was the answer to all your problems?
ABBOT: Destruction. The destruction YOU brought to us!
RIPLEY: I only tried to warn you.
ABBOT: What are you doing with this woman ?
JOHN: We are going to the Technology Room. Trying to find some way to fight
ABBOT: You don't join the devil to fight the She's helping us
ANTHONY: She's helping us
ABBOT: Look who defends the deceiver the one who isn't even human. John, can't you see what is happening? On ancient Earth, during the Black Death - many believed that God had abandoned them, so they appealed to the Devil. Flocked to him hoping to save their bodies - losing their souls in the bargain.
RIPLEY: Father, we're all on the run from the same monster so let's not resort to the fire and brimstone routine. I've been enlightened about your "movement." Pretty funny to be tried for heresy on a planet of heretics.
JOHN: The time for pretense is past.
ABBOT: All right. I was trying to keep you quiet.
JOHN: Sir ?
ABBOT: I do what I have to do to keep the Brotherhood together. We all gave up believing in Earth a long time ago. How do you think they would feel if told their exiled was in vain? That the holocaust they were trying to avoid never occured? Those men up there have grown to live with it.
RIPLEY: And with you as their leader. The Abbot smiles. Ripley is sharp.
ABBOT: You threatened the status quo.
RIPLEY: So you, protector of knowledge and truth, lied to them.
ABBOT: Only about you. The rest I still believe. If Earth still orbits its sun there is no way it could have survived being reduced to Barbarism.
RIPLEY: You're as bad as the Company.
JOHN: That's why you ran. After all your talk death stared you in the face and you were afraid.
RIPLEY: That's why you ran. After all your talk death stared you in the face and you were afraid.
ABBOT: Not afraid of death.
RIPLEY: The Alien.
ANTHONY: The Organism.
ABBOT: The Devil.
ANTHONY: Bringing up the rear, puts his walking stick down
SNAPP!!!: What was that? Anthony pulls his stick from the grasp of a
ABBOT: What was that? Anthony pulls his stick from the grasp of a
ANTHONY: Man trap. They lower their candles. Look to:
THE FLOOR: Interspersed throughout the timbers Spring jawed, steel toothed, BEAR TRAPS. Rusted. Open. And all around them.
ANTHONY: In case anyone tried to get in and tamper with the technology. The four of them are standing in the middle of a mine-field of man traps. Nobody moves.
ABBOT: What do we do?
RIPLEY: Don't move. Don't breath.
ABBOT: We can't just stand here and wait.
RIPLEY: Floor's too unstable to try to walk around them. John pulls a loose board from the corridor wall. Turns and kneels at the trap in front of him. Pokes the end of the board into the jaws.
SNAP!!: The others jump at the sound
ABBOT: John - what are you doing? John pulls the stick out of the rusted jaws. Moves to the next trap He's thinking like a leader. Everyone: Grab wood. Spring the traps. Clear a path. Good work, Father John.
RIPLEY: He's thinking like a leader. Everyone: Grab wood. Spring the traps. Clear a path. Good work, Father John.
JOHN: Brother. Let's go. Ripley pulls a plank from the wall next to her. Exposes a bit of the surface underneath It's METAL. She touches the cool, familiar material. Smiles. Now she knows this is not a dream. She turns and SPRINGS the trap in front of her
RIPLEY: Brother. Let's go. Ripley pulls a plank from the wall next to her. Exposes a bit of the surface underneath It's METAL. She touches the cool, familiar material. Smiles. Now she knows this is not a dream. She turns and SPRINGS the trap in front of her
SNAP!!: THE FOUR Slowly make their way down the corridor, one hand holding a candle high, the other poking a piece of wood into the trap in front of them. SNAP-SNAP.SNAP. SNAP. walking carefully around the yet unfired traps..
THE FOUR: Slowly make their way down the corridor, one hand holding a candle high, the other poking a piece of wood into the trap in front of them. SNAP-SNAP.SNAP. SNAP. walking carefully around the yet unfired traps..
JOHN: I just - are you allright?
RIPLEY: Tied. Without sleep, food I just feel my age. Figuring hyperspace time, I'm almost a She wipes her brow and goes back to knocking.
JOHN: The wall beneath his fist sounds hollow. Fingernails find the edge of the plank and pull The plank slides aside on tiny, rusty pneumatic pistons.
JOHN: I think this is it. Ripley and the Abbot move over to see.
ABBOT: Yeah - a hundred years ago. An antique.
RIPLEY: Yeah - a hundred years ago. An antique.
ABBOT: ( to Ripley ) Go ahead.
RIPLEY: Go ahead and what?
ABBOT: Open the door, woman.
RIPLEY: I'll get to it, but listen to me you may dress like you're living in the middle ages but you can't treat me like your chambermaid, or whatever Monks had.
THE ALIEN: Adapted itself to look like WOOD. It's body changes transmutes Cable-like sinew snaking over grained limbs to approximate the more traditional bio- mechnoid alien appearance.!
ANTHONY POV: The weary android sees the Alien as a conglommoration of his many Medieval images of demons. He hears the Alien's hollow, raspy breath. It glides towards him. Anthony steps back directly INTO A TRAP as his mind goes
SNAP!!: Milky blood-fluid starts to flow. He finds himself in the same predicament as his vision Ankle pinned, the Alien's appendages circling him He screams. AAAAAAAAAAAARGH !
ABBOT: OPEN IT!! Ripley knits her brows. Forces herself to focus. Her fingers punch the keys.
OPEN IT!!: Ripley knits her brows. Forces herself to focus. Her fingers punch the keys.
THE ALIEN: Steps towards Anthony Traps snap closed on its tail, its legs
SNAP!!: He TEARS right out of it
JOHN: Picks up Anthony's staff. Begins to FLAIL away at the demon.
ABBOT: What's wrong?! Ripley slides the keyboard out of the wall compartment. The wires are so old they've broken.
RIPLEY: She BITES the ends off the wires - spits out the insulation. TWISTS the bare wire ends together. Sweat runs into her eyes.
JOHN: WHACKS the Alien with Anthony's staff Again. Again. The creature will not let Anthony go. The Android writhes in its grasp, his face now a blistered, pulpy mass, eyes gone.
RIPLEY: Finishes hot wiring. The keyboard hums to life. Her fingers FLY across the keys
THE ALIEN: Tail wraps around John's waist Pulls him towards it LIFTS him - turns him upside down Lips PULL BACK John's hands GROPE at the floor Sharp metal teeth SPREAD
JOHN: His hand closes around the end of one of the traps He brings it up
SNAP!!: The Beast bellows!! Whips its head from side to side Can't shake off the trap ACID BLOOD sprays out ! Lands as pools of FIRE on the wooden floor.
THE DOOR: Opens with a strained blast of dust SEE-WHORCSSH! The Abbot LEAPS inside
RIPLEY: It's open!!
JOHN: PRIES Anthony's ankle out of his trap. Scoops up his staff, drags the moaning Android Back up the corridor
RIPLEY: Stands in open Technology Room doorway
ABBOT: Close it close it it's coming -
RIPLEY: We wait. John!! John and Anthony appear out of the shadows Run/hobble towards the door
THE ALIEN: Acid Blood DISSOLVES the traps' steel jaws. PULLS itself free. Head whips towards the escaping Monks if it had eyes they would narrow to slits in anger RUNS up the hall
RIPLEY: Follows John and Anthony into the Technology Room. On the other side of the doorway: another keyboard. She punches keys
ABBOT: THE ALIEN Yards away Limping. Hissing.
JOHN: THE ALIEN Yards away Limping. Hissing.
HURRY!!: THE ALIEN Yards away Limping. Hissing.
THE ALIEN: Yards away Limping. Hissing.
THE KEYBOARD: Acceptance tone "bings." The Door starts to slide down The Alien is feet away
WINDMILLS: Real Man of LaMancha wood and cloth windmills. Two story high arms slowly rotating. Moving enormous volumes of air through the wind tunnel-like room. As far as the eye can see. Turning, creaking.
RIPLEY: She's breathing heavy. She's wearing a sweat soaked tank top. Her eyes flit from side to side. Then up. Then down. She pokes the weapon out ahead of her and moves into the pod. She silently crosses the distance to Newt's sleep tube:
RIPLEY: No. NO! I beat you! I beat you mother The Alien spins her pushes her over across the sleep tube Like it's taking her from behind! Ripley looks down into the sleep tube: Newt is gone. Her doll's head lays in a pool of blood. The Alien wraps his arms around Ripley. Thin lips pull back for a kiss. She SCREAMS.
JOHN: I thought we'd lost you.
RIPLEY: What are you writing?
JOHN: Last will and testament. Just kidding. She looks to her left: Anthony is lying on his back, cotton bandage wrapped around his eyes. His ankle is a swollen mess. Wires are hanging out.
RIPLEY: Is he ?
JOHN: ( shakes his head ) He'll be fine.
ANTHONY: No I won't. He's a terrible liar.
RIPLEY: I'm sorry.
ANTHONY: It's ironic. I guess my visions were prescience after all. How will I ever resolve that with my artifical con- A creaking floorboard to Ripley's right draws her attention to The Abbot. He's pacing.
ABBOT: Do you see what you've delivered us Yeah. Lead me not into temptation to kick your ahh Ripley tries to stand - her head spins.
RIPLEY: Yeah. Lead me not into temptation to kick your ahh Ripley tries to stand - her head spins.
RIPLEY: Oh shit. The entire room THROBS with the rhythm of the wind.
RIPLEY: Where is the Big Boy -? The Abbot points to the door.
ABBOT: On the other side of that door. Waiting for us to starve to death. Ripley moves to the door and feels it's cold surface.
RIPLEY: It's playing with us. It could get in here any time it wants.
ABBOT: Why should he enter? He knows that one of the people in this room is in league with him.
JOHN: Sir. We're all in the same coracle, so to speak.
ABBOT: Maybe more than one of us.
RIPLEY: Let's talk about the facts, Mr. Abbot. She looks at the windmills.
RIPLEY: This is your technology?
ABBOT: Even this is forbidden to us.
RIPLEY: Well then, the facts are that we're screwed. She moves into the room. Walks around one of the Windmills.
RIPLEY: An Eco system. Nothing to recycle your atmosphere except the green plants. Winds generated down here Windmills use the natural surface winds to turn wheels underground, create tides on the seas to recirculate your water.
ANTHONY: More than that. There are pumps beneath the floor - I can feel their vibration.
RIPLEY: Probably pumping this air through charcoal It gets colder all the time here, right? John looks at her questioningly.
RIPLEY: It gets colder all the time here, right? John looks at her questioningly.
JOHN: Your wood burning fires throw soot into the atmosphere, building the cloud layer - cutting off the sun's rays - cooling the planet, forcing you to burn more wood.
RIPLEY: Your wood burning fires throw soot into the atmosphere, building the cloud layer - cutting off the sun's rays - cooling the planet, forcing you to burn more wood.
ANTHONY: The Greenhouse Effect. It's how the Earth almost destroyed itself in the late 20th Don't you see? This is a planet set to self destruct. Not in ten minutes or two hours but soon. Your atmosphere here is finite. If the plants die the fires will eat up all the oxygen - this planetoid will be dead - Everyone will die. The Abbot has the look of a man who has been beaten in the last few meters of a Marathon.
RIPLEY: Don't you see? This is a planet set to self destruct. Not in ten minutes or two hours but soon. Your atmosphere here is finite. If the plants die the fires will eat up all the oxygen - this planetoid will be dead - Everyone will die. The Abbot has the look of a man who has been beaten in the last few meters of a Marathon.
ABBOT: It's here. I was just hoping I would be dead long before it came to this.
JOHN: We're supposed to die here. That's the point.
ABBOT: We're supposed to die here. That's the point.
RIPLEY: Wait a minute you were exiled ?
ABBOT: The punishment for our crime was death. Anthony sits up.
ANTHONY: This planet is the supreme triumph of planned obsolesence. A certain amount of primitive materials with an atmosphere processing system as fragile as a real environment but not replenishable. The Abbot has a faraway look in his eyes.
ABBOT: Poetic justice for the anti-technologists. The Company's best work. You know, I used to be a corporate executive. Middle range V.P. Then my wife got hit by a speed craft. I chucked it all and joined the order. Be a monk see the world. Being here, being chairman of the board.
RIPLEY: No, now I understand why I landed here. To join you happy lunatics in your Ripley moves away. John starts after her.
JOHN: Ripley, wait The Abbot stands, blocks his way.
ABBOT: Where can she go? She's trapped. Trapped inside her own prison. A prison in her mind. Inside her mind. Dancing. Sparklets of light - dance with the june bugs in the recesses of ourmindstheyare coming to danceintheshadowof. John and Ripley turn to look at the Abbot. He begins to speak faster. Faster. He shakes. Vibrates is more accurate A trickle of BLOOD runs from his left ear.
ABBOT: Like a ripe melon dropped ten stories onto pavement. Blood, bone, hair and brain matter SPRAY John. John SCREAMS.
RIPLEY: BASTARD!! It came out of his fucking I didn't have to see that to know what that means.
ANTHONY: I didn't have to see that to know what that means.
RIPLEY: He sent him to us. That bastard outside. I can't get away from him. He's fucking with my mind. He's my punishment!
ANTHONY: I'm confused. Before you said it came out of the torso, not the head
RIPLEY: I don't feel like a discussion of Alien biology. John comes up next to her.
JOHN: Ripley, don't She pushes him away and sinks to the floor.
RIPLEY: I should just wait for the air to run out.
JOHN: I believe - I know - that we can win there is an answer in our books.
RIPLEY: Your books? Your books are gone, Brother. Your world is gone. Once that thing starts to lay its eggs, all your brothers - if they aren't already - are dead.
JOHN: If that's true, then all of us, the books, are consigned to ashes. He clasps his hands and bows his head. The Abbot's blood drips off his hands. Plip - plop! Into a little puddle at Ripley's feet. She stares at the blood. Aahk. Feels the PAIN again. Runs her hand across her chest.
RIPLEY: There are several inconsistancies between this and the other Aliens you described.
ANTHONY: There are several inconsistancies between this and the other Aliens you described.
RIPLEY: Give it up.
ANTHONY: I think this is important. This may help us fight it. The creature that I fought in the hall - when I first saw it, it had camoflaged itself to look like wood. Ripley looks up.
RIPLEY: Wood? When I saw it in my room it looked the way it did before black, mechanical unless that was a dream.
ANTHONY: I don't think it was. I think that this creature, if it is the efficient predator that you say it is, has the ability to adapt to its environment.
RIPLEY: Then the reason they've always looked the same to me is that I only ever saw them in the same environment.
ANTHONY: Or this may be an as yet unseen stage of development you saw a queen This could be like a King ant more highly advanced than the drone, bred for survival -?
JOHN: How does this explain the thing that came out of the ewe's chest? The Abbot's head?
RIPLEY: Maybe it can deposit different types of eggs. The chest burster is probably dormant until the host eats - The first one I ever saw came out of Kane after he started to eat And in one horrible moment she realizes: She hasn't eaten. The pain in her chest.
RIPLEY: Anthony "looks" towards her - does he realize as well?
JOHN: No what?
RIPLEY: No, we're not beat yet, Father
JOHN: Ripley gets up.
RIPLEY: Brother. Not yet. If he's taunting me, then maybe we can use that. We can beat this bastard. We can get to my ship. We can live.
ANTHONY: Don't have second thoughts. Blind and crippled I would only slow you down. Give him time to figure out what you're doing. Just leave me my staff.
RIPLEY: Okay. Good luck. She shakes his hand. He pulls her closer. Anthony's empty eye sockets seem to see as he looks at Ripley.
ANTHONY: Ripley, I know. Good luck.
RIPLEY: Sit tight. Ripley crosses to John. Poised at the bottom of the ladder they look up at the trap door on the ceiling.
RIPLEY: He could be waiting on the other side of that door. We might not get ten feet before he kills the three of us. He shakes his head.
JOHN: We had better go, then. He smiles. She smiles back. They move up the ladder. It leads up a damp, short shaft, walls GREEN with algae, to
JOHN: Must be day on the surface of the planet.
RIPLEY: Where is the light coming from?
JOHN: Mirrors. Reflect the outside light down great shafts through lenses. That's what they make in the glass factory. Lenses. Look She turns:
JOHN: Opens to the surface. Water flows in and out. I don't know how. There's one at either end. I came down on the other What do we do? John points to three small leather and wood coracles bobbing at the end of their ropes.
RIPLEY: What do we do? John points to three small leather and wood coracles bobbing at the end of their ropes.
JOHN: We cross.
ANTHONY: Now the seer can only see what God wants him to. Forty years on a planet of Monks and I've finally found religion. A floor board CREAKS. Anthony strains to hear:
ANTHONY: John? Ripley?
ANTHONY: Well come then. I haven't got forever. A shadow falls across his face. He can feel it. He doesn't have to see what is here.
RIPLEY: Your hands okay?
JOHN: They'll be fine. You've been on a boat before. Ripley squints ahead of them. The ocean seems to go on forever.
RIPLEY: I was a warrant officer on a ship but I did all my sailing in space.
JOHN: Father Anselm used to take me on his coracle when I was little. Ripley leans forward - scans his face.
RIPLEY: How old were you when they towed this satellite out here?
JOHN: Five. The Abbot said they put us to sleep for the thirty years it took to get here. We've had almost forty more. Until now.
RIPLEY: What happened to your mother?
JOHN: Never had one. I mean, never knew her. I mean, I did, once. She left my father when he joined the movement. If she hadn't I wouldn't be here. They kept the other children with the women, on Earth. That was too long ago now. Like a dream. Ripley's face grows strangely dark. She turns to the water.
RIPLEY: Did you know that I was a mother?
JOHN: The girl in the ship with -?
RIPLEY: No. On Earth. I never mentioned my daughter. My daughter. I have - had I guess, by now - a daughter on Earth. Kathy. She was nine when I signed on to the Nostromo. Mommy will be home before you know it I said. My shares would have set us up good. Then I lost sixty years floating around in a rescue pod. Thanks to the Alien. I came home to face a bitter, 70 year old woman. My daughter. A little girl who's mother never came home.
JOHN: Jesus Christ.
RIPLEY: They said I should have been happy to be alive. Funny, huh? That's why I went back the second time. Not so I could fight it You can't fight it So I could let it kill me. She rubs her chest
JOHN: You didn't choose to get lost in space.
RIPLEY: Thanks for the try Father
JOHN: Brother, but I'm not looking for absolution. I couldn't be a good mother to my daughter. I couldn't be a good mother to Newt. But I can be a good mother to you. I can make sure you survive. Suddenly they feel rain Ripley holds out her hand. Her eyes open wide at what she sees. John takes the oars as she holds the torch over the side: The Ocean has become red with BLOOD. Blood DRIPS down from the ceiling around them.
RIPLEY: Brother, but I'm not looking for absolution. I couldn't be a good mother to my daughter. I couldn't be a good mother to Newt. But I can be a good mother to you. I can make sure you survive. Suddenly they feel rain Ripley holds out her hand. Her eyes open wide at what she sees. John takes the oars as she holds the torch over the side: The Ocean has become red with BLOOD. Blood DRIPS down from the ceiling around them.
RIPLEY: John looks up.
JOHN: From the levels above. His face goes white.
JOHN: He must have slaughtered all
RIPLEY: Don't think about it. Don't think about what's up there. Just row. As Ripley takes the torch away from the water, tiny ripples move across the surface. She doesn't notice.
A SHAPE: Passes underneath the boat. A swimming CREATURE. The Alien. Thanks to the reflective qualities of water, it appears HUGE. Dwarfs their coracle.
RIPLEY: Holy shit. John crosses himself. Another testament to the terrible battle with the Alien. Reduced to just a huge, blackened floor. All the crops burned to ash Their charred stalks mingled with the corpses of roasted Monks. Their nostrils assailed by the stench of the dead Ripley would puke if she had any food in her body.
JOHN: There's Andrew. And Raphael. Peter.
RIPLEY: Stop. How far?
JOHN: We're right below the Abbey now. They cross the smoldering field. The scorched floor threatens to give way under John's feet Ripley pull him to one side.
THE MONASTERY: Flickering fires lit the first few floor windows. Ripley takes a step towards it Reaches back and pulls John.
JOHN: This is the glassworks. They have tools here He runs across the room
BROTHER KYLE: Sits calmly at the Marver table. He places playing cards on the table in front of him. He sings to himself quietly.
KYLE: ( sotto ) Can't see my baby. Don't see my baby. Bay be. John grabs him by the lapels - pulls him to his feet. The playing cards fall to the floor Kyle watches them, not John.
JOHN: Kyle. Brother Kyle.
KYLE: Cards on the floor, fifty two pickup. Black king on red queen, put the ace up John SHAKES him.
JOHN: Kyle goddammit! Ripley moves closer.
RIPLEY: John - it's too late Kyle begins to sing faster. Faster.
KYLE: Ace up. Put the ace up. Redaceupup. boomloommawhacka Booomalooma Ripley and John look at each other. They know what this means. John pulls a length of rope off a nearby table. Moves in front of Kyle. Looks into his glassy eyes. A tear runs down his cheek.
JOHN: Keep singing, my friend. John loops the rope around Kyle's neck. Strangles him. Eases the lifeless body to the floor. Stares at it.
RIPLEY: Pulls a blowing iron from the rack. Feels its weight and balance. A reasonable weapon. She crosses to John.
JOHN: I killed him. I'm a doctor and I killed him.
RIPLEY: You had to. You're supposed to end She hands him a pontil, a pointed iron spear used to form the molten glass shapes.
RIPLEY: Let's get the hell out of here.
RIPLEY: He's made a mess. John pushes ahead of her.
JOHN: No. He hasn't been up here yet. I did this. He moves to the nearest shelf and uses his pontil to pry open the lock
JOHN: Here - philosophy - we'll start here
AAAROO !: WHUMPH! Knocks John to the floor Licks his face.
JOHN: The happy dog leaps all over his master.
JOHN: He waited. Ripley, this is Mattias. My dog. Good fellow. Ripley crosses to them.
RIPLEY: I'm glad. Really. But we've probably only got a few minutes before this entire place goes up in flames. Just grab whatever books you want and Ripley leans in to pet Mattias. Mattias draws his lip back. Growls. He's looking over Ripley's shoulder. She turns around slowly.
THE ALIEN: Standing in the open doorway. It's in bad shape from the man traps. Lost a foot. Tongue hanging out, useless. Parts of it look like wood. Parts of it look like wheat. It carries Anthony's waterlogged, limp body POPS off his head like a grape from the bunch. Tosses the corpse at Ripley's feet. I could swear it's trying to smile.
JOHN: Easy, boy.
RIPLEY: Is there another way out?
JOHN: Not that will do us any good.
THE ALIEN: Limps into the room dragging one foot. It's breathing is labored. Dripping acid blood leaves a thin trail of fire behind it.
JOHN: We hurt it. The Alien draws itself up to its full height Even wounded it is one dangerous mother fucker.
RIPLEY: You wanna give it a bandage? Look Where is my ship from here?
JOHN: On the roof directly above this room.
RIPLEY: Here's the plan
JOHN: But the books
RIPLEY: Forget the books!
RUFF!!: Runs to the Alien
RIPLEY: Snaps and barks at the Alien Leaping about to dodge its claws. Draws its attention
MATTIAS: Snaps and barks at the Alien Leaping about to dodge its claws. Draws its attention
JOHN: No! THE BOOKS!!
RIPLEY: Don't ! John steps forward Ripley grabs for him The ACID EATS through the wooden floor
JOHN: Finds himself HANGING over the bubbling glass vat - Caught - DANGLING on the Flying Fox rope. Five feet away - the ledge the Flying Fox is launched from. He looks down: He can see the huge open vat of molten glass below him. To its right, the Water DUMP TANK - a large wine cask-looking affair where finished pieces are cooled. He looks up: Ripley holding onto the edge of the broken floor above.
JOHN: Are you all right? Ripley grunts an affirmative response. At least is she falls, it will only be a twenty-foot drop to the floor. John is looking at instant par-boiling. John starts to move hand over hand UP the rope. He begins to A drop of sweat falls.
HSSS!: Tries to pull herself up to the floor above The next level is a raging fire. She can only hang and DROP. She DOES -! Falls the two stories. Bends her knees and ROLLS on impact.
RIPLEY: Tries to pull herself up to the floor above The next level is a raging fire. She can only hang and DROP. She DOES -! Falls the two stories. Bends her knees and ROLLS on impact.
JOHN: Has reached the ledge overlooking the furnace. He stands. Sees Ripley slowly rising
JOHN: Ripley -! Ripley shakily gets to her feet. Hops on one foot.
RIPLEY: Aargh. I'm fine. Let's get the fuck out of
SUDDENLY: THE ALIEN'S head breaks the surface of the molten glass. SCREAMING. STEAMING. It is white-hot - translucent covered with It looks like MOLTEN GLASS!! Hook-like hands grasp the edge of the tank It tries to climb out Ripley turns to run. Tender ankle gives out. She falls face down on the floor Rolls over THE ALIEN is going to climb out of the vat She SCREAMS
JOHN: Grabs the Flying Fox handle. SWINGS down the rope - across the room PAST the Alien It turns away from Ripley - She scrambles across the floor. John lands HARD. Ripley looks next to her: a burning wooden lever. The Alien has one foot out of the glass furnace RIPLEY grabs the lever Hssssst! Putting out the fire with her hand THE HUGE DUMP TANK OF WATER DUMPS. Empties a thousand gallons RAINS DOWN on the Alien. It HOWLS in pain The Molten Glass instantly COOLS The rapid extreme temperature change causes the beast to BE-THWOOOoooOOM -!! EXPLODE into a million pieces.!!!! Ripley helps John off the floor. They are battered. Bloody. They look into the vat. The steam clears. The room is littered with Alien Bits. Each piece is encased in glass Trapped like a fly in amber.
JOHN: Ripley - the lever!! Ripley looks next to her: a burning wooden lever. The Alien has one foot out of the glass furnace RIPLEY grabs the lever Hssssst! Putting out the fire with her hand THE HUGE DUMP TANK OF WATER DUMPS. Empties a thousand gallons RAINS DOWN on the Alien. It HOWLS in pain The Molten Glass instantly COOLS The rapid extreme temperature change causes the beast to BE-THWOOOoooOOM -!! EXPLODE into a million pieces.!!!! Ripley helps John off the floor. They are battered. Bloody. They look into the vat. The steam clears. The room is littered with Alien Bits. Each piece is encased in glass Trapped like a fly in amber.
JOHN: Saw that happen to a bottle once.
RIPLEY: ( panting ) Beat. Beat him - ugh She grabs her stomach as her knees give out. John gives her an arm for support.
JOHN: We've got to get to the Library
RIPLEY: Don't worry. Ship. Just They look up: Mattias looks down through the hole in the floor.
RIPLEY: Don't be stupid
JOHN: Some of them! I've got to save some of them! Mattias!! Mattias yelps in response. Threads his way through to them. Ripley spins him to face her. Tears stream down his cheeks.
RIPLEY: They're lost. You did your best. If you get out, it wasn't in vain. We've got to live!! She YANKS him into the hallway
JOHN: The Library
RIPLEY: I told you the Earth is still there Ripley checks an instrument: Elapsed travel time. Her brows knit. She TAPS the gauge.
RIPLEY: Not working.
JOHN: What does that mean?
RIPLEY: It means I don't know how long I was in hyper sleep.
JOHN: It means the Abbot could've been right
RIPLEY: It means my clock isn't working. We have to get out of here. Even if he was right this ship's onboard computer is filled with man's knowledge.
JOHN: Not everything. Some things will be lost forever.
RIPLEY: Then man starts over. He's done it She pushes a few buttons. Somewhere under the floor a propulsion source HUMS to life. THROBBING through the soles of John's feet. Ripley is absorbed in her work.
RIPLEY: Okay. The seals weren't broken so we're probably clear. But those dead monks out there are going to start hatching soon. Let's get ready to take off.
JOHN: What can I do?
RIPLEY: Here, I need a compressor tank from in that compartment. She motions towards an open door. John enters the compartment. Whoosh-CLANG -! The door closes behind him.
JOHN: Hey! What?! He looks out the window in the door. Ripley is staring at him, punching keys on a pad next to the Hey - I'm locked in. Mattias scratches at the door.
JOHN: Hey - I'm locked in. Mattias scratches at the door.
RIPLEY: I know. I locked you in.
JOHN: I'm not going with you. I've got one inside me.
RIPLEY: I'm not going with you. I've got one inside me.
JOHN: What?! You can't She runs a hand across her midsection.
RIPLEY: I figured it out. That's why it didn't kill me. He must have impregnated me when I was in the stasis tube. It hasn't come out yet because I haven't eaten, It's still dormant. So either I eat and it kills me or I don't eat and I starve to death. Either way I die. John pulls the Medieval Tome out of his medical bag.
JOHN: My book I know what to do
RIPLEY: What, an exorcism? No good.
JOHN: You can't do this. Ripley - listen to me - you're confusing feeling of guilt for actual sin - I can help you
RIPLEY: ( ignoring ) I've set a time lock. When the pod escapes the Colony's gravitational pull this compartment will open. Then all you have to do is get into the Stasis tube with Mattias and press the blue button. With any luck a freighter or something will pick you up. Good luck. He pounds his fists against the door.
JOHN: NO! No, Goddammit - you can't do this. You can't let it win. She turns away from the door.
RIPLEY: It always wins. We killed it, but it's still inside me You're my last chance. If I can keep you alive it'll make up for all those I've lost.
JOHN: Listen to me! You have to let me try! Ripley: You're MY only chance! She's listening.
JOHN: I told you Father Anselm raised me. He raised me and when he was dying I couldn't do anything to save him. I didn't know enough. It was my fault he died. If you don't let me try to save you my body will live but my soul will be dead. Ripley turns and stares at him.
JOHN: CUT TO: THE PAGE A MEDIEVAL ETCHING. Pull back as John lowers Ripley to the pod floor. John closes his eyes. Closes the book. He pours some water into a small plastic cup. Retrieves a small pouch of herbs. Opens it. Wrinkles his nose - they smell pours these ancient medicines into the space age cup.
THE PAGE: A MEDIEVAL ETCHING. Pull back as John lowers Ripley to the pod floor. John closes his eyes. Closes the book. He pours some water into a small plastic cup. Retrieves a small pouch of herbs. Opens it. Wrinkles his nose - they smell pours these ancient medicines into the space age cup.
RIPLEY: What is this stuff?
JOHN: ( forceful ) Something that will make you well. Something that will make you sick.
RIPLEY: I don't
JOHN: Shut up and drink. He lifts the back of Ripley's head FORCES the drink down her throat. John swings his leg over her midsection. STRADDLES her. Presses his two hands together in prayer. Then balls them into one fist. Takes a deep, preparatory breath. Ripley starts to GAG Cough. Her body starts to JERK John BRINGS HIS FIST DOWN INTO HER STOMACH
HEAVES: Ripley's back arches She SCREAMS a gut wrenching WAIL Her torso BULGES as the creature is forced upwards. John BEARS down Pushes UP under her ribs FORCING the chest-burster up her throat Ripley fights for air as the alien STOPS halfway up her esophagus She's choking John crosses himself takes a deep breath Lowers his mouth to hers Inhales. Exhales. CPR.
INTO JOHN'S!!: John falls back against a computer console. Gagging. Fights to speak. Ripley raises herself up on one elbow. Alien mucous drooling down her chin. Hair matted against her forehead.
RIPLEY: Choking. It was the only way. He drops the open book in front of her: She sees the etching.
JOHN: Choking. It was the only way. He drops the open book in front of her: She sees the etching.
JOHN: Gulps back the oozing slime. Struggles to his feet.
JOHN: They knew.
RIPLEY: But you Ripley tries to stand - to go after him She can't sit up feels like a rib might be cracked.
RIPLEY: You'll die John stumbles to the Pod door. Turns back.
JOHN: That's idea. Join.my brothers. If we were right, Heaven. If we were wrong either way, where we belong. World of books. Pages. He draws the parchment out of his bag. Drops it to the floor.
JOHN: You. are from the real world. He starts to step through the door Mattias tries to follow.
JOHN: Stay both of you. He exits the Pod. Ripley drags herself across the floor.
RIPLEY: No - wait! John! To the Door. Looks out:
BROTHER JOHN: Dawn's rays are peeking through the battered ceiling as he walks slowly across the smoking roof. Into the inferno that is the burning Abbey. Ripley watches as John and the alien horror inside him are
JOHN'S PARCHMENT: Ripley picks it up and unrolls it. She hears John's voice:
DEEP SPACE: The escape pod moves through the jet-black void.
ARCEON: Dwindles into the darkness behind her, a smouldering, slowly dying ember.
