GIRL'S VOICE: My mom always said there were no monsters no, real ones but there The girl stops, looks around her. The wheat comes all the up to her chest, and nothing else is visible as far as she see. She looks back at the woman but the woman is already more than fifty yards away. The girl's expression becomes perplexed. She slaps a bug on the back of her neck. Pulls it off and is HUGE, wriggling fleshily in her hand. Her expression becomes even more distraught, but she cannot muster forth a shout. The sound of insects-fills the air. Another bug lands on her, another. She looks down in growing horror and sees: Blood. At her feet, rising, filling the field, rising above the wheat, a sea of blood now, dark, thick. The girl tries again to scream, raises her arms. She is completely covered in insects, a skittering black shroud of them, and when she finally does SCREAM they flood into her mouth.
WREN: Careful . ready with the amnio. Gediman finishes cutting. Another man steps in with a clamp. Sets it. Pulls apart the chest.
GEDIMAN: There she is. He says it like he's found a lost kitten. He reaches in an pulls out a sleeping, fetal but nearly ready to burst ALIEN. Others work at severing umbilical threads that tie it to Ripley's chest.
GEDIMAN: Here we go. He holds it up and others step in with the amnio, a sort of incubator filled with amniotic fluid. The alien SCREAMS, its tiny mouth full with teeth, and wriggles out of his grasp.
WREN: Watch it! Everybody panics but before the thing can get completely away from him, Gediman grabs it and sticks it in the amnio. Someone shuts the top rapidly. Everybody looks at each other for a moment.
GEDIMAN: Well .
WREN: The host? A surgeon looks at Ripley's readings.
SURGEON: Doing fine. Gediman looks at Wren, hopefully. Wren nods.
WREN: Sew her back up. Gediman and the surgeon get to work, as the others carefully remove the Well, that went as well as could be expected Ripley's hand LASHES OUT, GRABS the surgeon's forearm. He yells in pain as her fingers dig into him, the others scramble knocking things over and we HEAR HIS BONE CRACKING.
GEDIMAN: Well, that went as well as could be expected Ripley's hand LASHES OUT, GRABS the surgeon's forearm. He yells in pain as her fingers dig into him, the others scramble knocking things over and we HEAR HIS BONE CRACKING.
WREN: How's our number Eight today?
WREN: ( noticing his tone ) How good?
GEDIMAN: Extraordinary. As in, completely off our projected charts. ( shows him some photos ) Look at the scar tissue. See the recession?
WREN: This is from
GEDIMAN: This is good. This is very good.
WREN: This is good. This is very good.
GEDIMAN: I'd like to run some tests: strength, coordination. We're not looking at a normal cloning arc.
WREN: Well, it looks like you're going to make us all very proud. She grabs his throat with dazzling speed, applying deadly pressure as she brings his face to hers. Her eyes are burn but lost.
RIPLEY: Oh my God. He is as wide eyed as WREN, and he isn't having his windpipe crushed. After a moment the shock wears off and he slams his hand into the Klaxons, red light fire up. A guard rushes in, levels his weapon at Ripley. After a moment of staring him down, she opens her hand. Wren falls to his knees gasping. The guard FIRES his rifle at her a powerful electrical charge lashes out and sends her flying back into the corner.
GEDIMAN: Oh my God. He is as wide eyed as WREN, and he isn't having his windpipe crushed. After a moment the shock wears off and he slams his hand into the Klaxons, red light fire up. A guard rushes in, levels his weapon at Ripley. After a moment of staring him down, she opens her hand. Wren falls to his knees gasping. The guard FIRES his rifle at her a powerful electrical charge lashes out and sends her flying back into the corner.
WREN: No! No! I'm all right! The guards keep their weapons 'burners', these shockrifles are called leveled at Ripley. She has recovered from the shock quickly, sits crumpled in the corner, looking at nothing in particular. RIPLEY ( wearily ) CUT TO: INT. OBSERVATION ROOM Wren and Gediman watch through a one way mirror as a scientist tests With them is General PEREZ, the man in charge this boat. Ramrod straight and about as gruff as you would expect, he stares at Ripley ANGLE: RIPLEY The scientist is holding up cards with pictures on them: house, dog, Ripley gives answers we can't hear through the glass, looking pissed off and bored.
WREN: It's unprecedented.
GEDIMAN: Totally! She's operating at a completely adult capacity.
PEREZ: And her memories?
WREN: There are gaps. And there's some degree of cognitive dissonance.
GEDIMAN: She's freaked. Wren shoots Gediman a stern look at his unscientific parlance.
WREN: "It" has some connective difficulties. A kind of low level emotional Certain reactions.. Perez looks at Ripley through the glass, then exits into the hall.
PEREZ: You haven't told me what you think has caused this. Cloned genes don't contain memory cells, not even when they're brought to adult term. I'm right?
GEDIMAN: There's been cases..
PEREZ: Not like this.
WREN: Well, we don't have nearly enough data. but in some cases there is a collective memory passed down generationally. At a genetic level. Like instinct, only more complex structurally.
PEREZ: In some cases. You're talking about the alien.
WREN: You promised me there wasn't going to be any crossing.
PEREZ: You promised me there wasn't going to be any crossing.
WREN: It's not like the other ones.. Perez punches code, puts his hand on the scanner and the second observation room door opens.. He steps in, the other two right behind him.
PEREZ: But there is some genetic mix.
WREN: Will there be further mutation?
PEREZ: Will there be further mutation?
GEDIMAN: Mutation isn't exactly. I don't think so.
WREN: That's one of the things we need to study.
PEREZ: All right. You can keep it. But secure, under obsorvation, and for God's sake keep it away from here. I don't want any more surprises. And as he speaks the ALIEN RISES RIGHT BEHIND HIM it's big, the ridges on its head indicating a young queen it hisses and LUNGES at the back of his head. The reinforced plastic window between them, which we couldn't see, stops it. As it hits, a thin laser grid buzzes to life, sparks crackling on the alien's face. Its bile trails darkly on the glass as it backs off. Perez turns to look at it with the others.
PEREZ: It took a hell of a lot to get us here.
GEDIMAN: No shit. Wren shoots him another look.
PEREZ: How soon before this one's ovulating?
WREN: Is that normal?
PEREZ: Is that normal?
WREN: No way of knowing for sure, but I'd say it's accelerated. ( After a moment ) We're going to need the supplies.
PEREZ: They're coming. Soon.
GEDIMAN: The memory comes, and she shakes her head wearily. RIPLEY ( softly ) GEDIMAN ( pretending to correct her ) Ever so slightly, she smiles. The smile fades, and after a moment:
RIPLEY: How did you.
GEDIMAN: How did we get you? Blood samples from Fiori 16. On ice. Do you remember that place?
RIPLEY: Does it grow?
GEDIMAN: Does it...Yeah. Rapidly.
RIPLEY: It's a queen.
GEDIMAN: How did you know that?
RIPLEY: It'll breed. You'll die. Everyone in the . fucking.. ( searches for the word, then spits it out ) . Company. Will die.
GEDIMAN: WREN ( O.S. ) Weyland Yutani. He has entered behind her, comes up to the table.
WREN: Our Ripley's former employers. Terran Growth conglom, had some defense contracts under the military. Before your time, Gediman they went under decades ago, bought out by Walmart. Fortunes of war. ( to Ripley ) You'll find things have changed a good deal since your time.
RIPLEY: 1 doubt that.
WREN: We're not flying blind here, you know. This is United Systems military, not some greedy corporation. The potential benefits of this race go way beyond urban pacification. New alloys, new vaccines . there's nothing like this in any world we've seen. You should be very proud. She laughs, bitterly.
RIPLEY: Oh, I am.
WREN: And the animal itself is wonderous. They'll be invaluable once we've harnessed them.
RIPLEY: It's a cancer. You can't teach it tricks. This stops Wren, and he retreats silently. Ripley repeats word to herself, thinking.
RIPLEY: "Them" .
ENSIGN: Doctor, General Perez is asking for you. We've been hailed.
ELGYN: ( good naturedly ) My authorization code is 'fuck you', son. Now open the goddamn bay or General Perez is gonna do a Wichita stomp on your virgin ass. He switches off.
RANE: Wichita stomp?
ELGYN: I guarantee that boy's. Never seen the inside of a woman. ( to Hillard ) Bring us in on three-oh descent, ride the parallel.
HILLARD: Darlin', it's done.
ELGYN: Don't cut thrust till six hundred meters. Give em a little fright. He puts his hand on her shoulder, runs it up along her cheek as he They're more than friends. He moves through a hallway, sticks his head in a cubicle.
ELGYN: Christie! St Just! Rise and shine. We're docking. He proceeds into:
ELGYN: Call! CALL! The music is louder here it's blasting from a box in the corner. Elgyn switches it off.
ELGYN: We're docking! Are the cargo trucks secured?
CALL: We're docking! Are the cargo trucks secured?
ELGYN: We're docking! Are the cargo trucks secured?
CALL: I checked 'em an hour ago.
ELGYN: I don't want em so much as rattled. Any leakage, I take it out of your Trust me, boss. ELGYN ( laughs ) Not my style. He leans down, looks under the thresher. Lying on a gurneylike steel dolly, working under the machine, is VRIESS, chie mechanic. Late forties, in pretty good shape considering he's got no legs.
CALL: Trust me, boss. ELGYN ( laughs ) Not my style. He leans down, looks under the thresher. Lying on a gurneylike steel dolly, working under the machine, is VRIESS, chie mechanic. Late forties, in pretty good shape considering he's got no legs.
ELGYN: How's it looking? VRIESS It's never gonna be pretty. but she'll fly. The other one's a total fucking write-off.
ELGYN: You'll make it good.
VRIESS: Don't be so sure. ( calls out ) Call! Adjust the generator plugs! ELGYN ( straightening up ) They just gotta run, Vriess. They don't gotta run far. He exits.
CHRISTIE: What's our status?
ELGYN: We're coming in. Time to enjoy a little of the general's hospitality.
ST JUST: Oh great. Army food.. ST JUST ( "San-Jhoost" ) is slim, Asian and the epitome of cool. Moves quickly and silently, a sly grin playing about lips. He is strapping a contraption to his forearm. It resembles a deringer holder, but a very complex one. ELGYN: We could use a rest, till the heat's off and Vriess can get those harvesters on their feet. This'll keep us for a couple of days, assuming the natives are We expecting any trouble?
CHRISTIE: We expecting any trouble?
ELGYN: From Perez? I doubt it. Still, let's be ever vigilant.
VRIESS: I'm patched in. Check the sequence timer. ( no answer ) ANGLE: THE CONTROLS A hand reaches in toward the ON switch.
VRIESS: The thresher GRINDS TO LIFE a hundred blades and claws spinning at Vriess's head! Vriess wheels out from under the machine in a second flat.
VRIESS: The second he's out he hits a lever and the back of the dolly flies up, transforming it-into a wheelchair. VRIESS Johner! You son of a whore! JOHNER jumps down from the machine, laughing. He's thickset, mean and ugly, with ugly scars crisscrossing his ugly bald head. Thought I'd give you a little haircut there.
VRIESS: You fuck! Call, who has been over on the other side of the thresher, ably climbs up on it and switches it off.
JOHNER: You should see your face. Vriess, you must have soiled yourself. VRIESS One of these days I'm gonna kill you. My hand to God.
JOHNER: Well, you already gave him your feet . CALL ( jumping down ) You're a limp fucking scrotum, you know that?
JOHNER: Either of you want a piece of me, I'm less than busy.
VRIESS: Any time.
CALL: Vriess. Forget it. He's been sucking down too much homebrew.
JOHNER: Don't push me, little Annalee. You hang with us a while, you'll learn I'm not the man with whom to fuck. He exits, full of annoying bravado.
VRIESS: That inbred cocksucker. He feels his forehead, comes up with a bit of blood. Realizes how close it was . Call looks up at the thresher.
CALL: 1 hate machines.
VRIESS: Well, now we know it works .
SOLDIER: No projectile weaponry is allowed on board the vessel, sir. Johner opens his jacket, shows what he's packing: a large thermos.
JOHNER: Moonshine. My own. Much more dangerous.
SOLDIER: Sorry, sir. ELGYN ( to Perez ) What, do you think we're going to hijack the vessel? All eight of us? No, I think one of your asshole crew is going to get drunk and put a bullet through the hull. we are in space, Elgyn. He enters from the antechamber, motions for the crew to follow him. Vriess comes abreast of the soldier.
VRIESS: Wanna check the chair? The soldier makes no response, simply falls in behind Call, the last of CUT TO: INT. ANTECHAMBER The long neck that connects the bay to the body of the ship. The group proceeds down it, the crew looking about them at the sterile grandeur.
ST JUST: This place is really clean. JOHNER ( to a guard ) Hey. You got any whores on this vessel? ( the guard remains stonefaced ) Any loose women with bad eyesight?
PEREZ: I think you'll find our accomodations somewhat spartan. Although the cook sets a good-table. JOHNER: That ain't what I'm hungry for. VRIESS ( to Call ) What's the matter? She is looking around her, somewhat tensely.
CALL: I don't like army.
HILLARD: Yeah, join the fucking club.
PEREZ: This wasn't easy to come by.
ELGYN: Neither was our cargo. You're not pleading poverty, are you?
PEREZ: We're well funded. I mean the bills. There's not many that still deal in coin.
ELGYN: Just the ones that don't like their every transaction recorded. The fringe element. I guess that would include you, though, wouldn't it?
PEREZ: Constantly. I'm guessing whatever you've got going here wasn't exactly approved by congress. Perez pours two whiskeys. PEREZ ( changing the subject ) So where do you go from here?
ELGYN: Constantly. I'm guessing whatever you've got going here wasn't exactly approved by congress. Perez pours two whiskeys. PEREZ ( changing the subject ) So where do you go from here?
ELGYN: Out by the Handle. We've got a couple of harvesters, we can unload 'em on one of the collectives if Vriess and Call get 'em working.
PEREZ: Call. Where'd you find her?
ELGYN: She is severely fuckable, isn't she? - And the very devil with a socket I think Vriess somewhat pines. He takes a stack of bill, smells it. He likes the smell.-
ELGYN: She is curious about this little transaction. You can hardly blame her, Awfully cloak and dagger. Perez hands a drink to ELGYN.
PEREZ: This is an army operation.
ELGYN: Most army research labs don't have to operate outside regulated space. And they don't call for the kind of cargo we brought.
PEREZ: Do you want something, Elgyn?
ELGYN: Just bed and board, couple of days worth. If we're not imposing.
PEREZ: Not at all. Keep out of the restricted areas, don't start any fights, and mi casa is yours too. Elgyn drinks to that.
PEREZ: I trust, of course, that you can mind your own business. ELGYN ( smiles ) I'm famous for it. They drink.
JOHNER: Johner comes up to Ripley. Her expression makes it clear how much she enjoys having him in her face.
JOHNER: How about a little one on one? She keeps dribbling, says nothing.
JOHNER: What do you say?
RIPLEY: Get away from me.
JOHNER: Why should I?
RIPLEY: Because pain hurts. He falters a moment at her quiet threat, then: JOHNER Are you gonna hurt me then? 1 think I might enjoy that. He smiles his ugly smile. She smiles back. She hits, him solidly in the chest and he flies back ten feet, landing badly on a group of chairs. His mates fly into action, Christie grabs a standing ashtray. Hillard jumps Ripley from behind. She throws her off with e chucks the basketball at her hard enough to pop the air out of it. Christie swings at her and SMASHES her right in the face. She arcs back. and right back up, at Christie's throat before he has a chance to react, squeezing, batting away the ashtray just a trickle of blood coming down her nose Johner cames at her again and she leaps on him, throws him to the ground, snarling,
WREN: Ripley looks up and four guards are pointing burners at her. Wren and Gediman behind them. Call, standing to one side with Vriess, reacts visibly to the name. Everybody is slowly backing off. St Just stands with his hands behind his back, as if concealing something. Call watches in rapt silence.
WREN: Don't let's have a scene. Ripley lets go of Johner, stands.
RIPLEY: He. smells
WREN: I imagine he does. JOHNER ( barely breathing ) What the fuck are you? She looks down on him - in both senses of the phrase. - Look around at everyone staring at her. She wipes the bit of blood from under her nose, flicks it away. Exits. WREN ( to Gediman, amused ) Social skills, less than a hundred' percent.
WREN: What's the status on the Queen?
GEDIMAN: We still haven't detected the origin of the reproductive anomalies. But the egg laying stage appears to be over.
WREN: Did we do something wrong?
GEDIMAN: I don't know. I think we covered everything. But these redundancies. A soldier lifts a panel in the pen and then doors to the cage come open Everyone waits. A fullgrown alien suddenly bolts into the pen. The soldier shut it as quickly as humanly possible.
WREN: Father, check security status, observation pen six. Father, the voice of the ship, replies after a moment in a dulcet, comforting tone.
FATHER: Pen six secure, security systems functional at 100%.
WREN: Good. Now the others.
GEDIMAN: How did you get in here?
RIPLEY: Beautiful, aren't they?
GEDIMAN: Yes. Yes they are. I've been monitoring their interaction. He points at a audiograph by the wall, blips and waves interrupting the vibrating line, indicating sound. He notices that her hand is still on her shoulder.
GEDIMAN: They communicate. Through ultrasonic soundwaves. Sort of like bats.
RIPLEY: I know. She looks at him.
RIPLEY: I can hear them. GEDIMAN ( smiling ) Amazing . She runs her hand through the back of his hair, gently urging him up off his chair.
GEDIMAN: She pulls him close, kisses him. Lightly at first, then deeply - holding his head with both hands. He responds with surprising warmth, the kiss drawing out, pulling slowly apart. She looks at him, smiles. An alien tongue SHOOTS out of her mouth, burying itself in his face.
RIPLEY: She pulls him close, kisses him. Lightly at first, then deeply - holding his head with both hands. He responds with surprising warmth, the kiss drawing out, pulling slowly apart. She looks at him, smiles. An alien tongue SHOOTS out of her mouth, burying itself in his face.
JOHNER: I'm in.
CHRISTIE: All right.
ST JUST: Raise you two hundred.
JOHNER: Oh, fuck you!
CALL: That's it. I'm out. I'm fucked. She throws down her cards, takes a swig of Johner's patented moonshine. It tastes horrible.
CHRISTIE: That takes me down, too. Johner?
JOHNER: Uh, Uh, fuck it. I fold. ( to St Just ) What do-you got? St Just calmly shuffles his cards back into the deck.
ST JUST: You'll always wonder.
JOHNER: You asshole.
CHRISTIE: Johner, your deal.
CALL: Deal me out. It's not my night. She tries to stand up, takes a spill over her chair. The others laugh.
CALL: Jesus, Johner, what do you put in that shit, battery acid?
JOHNER: Just for coloring. ST JUST ( producing a small vial ) I got something that'll take the edge off that. CALL Thanks, I'll walk it off. She stumbles out of the room. Johner shuffles the deck.
JOHNER: Bitches should not play with the boys, they will get cleaned out. ( dealing ) Eight card throwback, fuck your sister and the sevens are wild.
RIPLEY: Call starts, moving back a pace.
RIPLEY: You gonna kill me or what?
CALL: There's no point, is there? A flick of her wrist and the stilletto whips back up her sleeve. Ripley sits up.
CALL: It's already out of you. Christ. Is it here? Is it on board? RIPLEY ( smiling ) You mean my baby? CALL I don't understand. If they've got it, why are they keeping you alive?
RIPLEY: Curious. I'm the latest thing.
CALL: Those sick fucks. She raises her arm, the stilletto gliding out again.
CALL: I can make it stop. The pain. this nightmare.. That's all I can offer you. Ripley holds her palm up, presses it against the point of the blade.
RIPLEY: What makes you think I would let you do that? Ripley pushes her hand out - the blade goes RIGHT THROUGH HER PALM. She keeps pushing her hand out slowly, a good five inches of the blade sticking out the back of her hand before she stops. Call stares at What are you?
CALL: What are you?
RIPLEY: Ripley, Ellen, Lieutenant first class, number 36706.
CALL: Ellen Ripley died two hundred years ago. Ripley pulls her hand back suddenly, grimacing at the pain.
RIPLEY: What do you know about it?
CALL: I've read Morse I've read all the banned histories. She gave her life to protect us from the beast. You're not her.
RIPLEY: If I'm not her. What am I?
CALL: You're a thing. A construct. They grew you in a fucking lab.
RIPLEY: But only God can make a tree.
CALL: And now they've brought the beast out of you. RIPLEY ( smiling ) Not all the way out.
CALL: It's in my head. Behind my eyes. I can hear it moving. The beast. The smile is gone, some real vulnerability showing through. Call softens, trying a different tack.
RIPLEY: It's in my head. Behind my eyes. I can hear it moving. The beast. The smile is gone, some real vulnerability showing through. Call softens, trying a different tack.
CALL: Help me. If there's anything human in you at all, help me stop them before this thing gets loose.
RIPLEY: It's already loose. Call's expression changes. Those words terrify her, but she's not sure if Ripley means what she thinks. Ripley raises her hand at Call's head Call flinches but Ripley stops a few inches away. Then touches her forehead gently, almost sensually.
RIPLEY: Once the thought .. the hope for it . grows here.. it has found its way. It will come, because. man will bring it. Bring it forth.
CALL: You want that.
RIPLEY: I've come to terms with the fact of it. It's inevitable.
CALL: Not so long as there's breath-in me. Ripley LASHES OUT and GRABS CALL'S THROAT. Call swings wit the blade but Ripley has her arm pinned before she can connect. Ripley squeezes the girls neck. Ripley looks at the girl with a world of sadness.
RIPLEY: I can. make it . stop. Call's eyes are pleading, terrified. Ripley finally lets go and she drops to the ground gasping for air. RIPLEY Go. They're coming for you. As soon as she can move, Call scrambles up and heads out.
WREN: I think you're gonna find that this was ill advised. ( to the men ) Where are her friends?
GUARD: Mess hall, most of them.
WREN: Sound the alarm. I want them rounded up. Now!
ELGYN: What the fuck is going on here?
CHRISTIE: Looks like a doublecross, boss.
WREN: Where's the other one? With the chair? JOHNER ( to a soldier ) Get your fucking hands off me!
ELGYN: Do you mind telling me what the fuck you're up to?
WREN: Shut up! ( to a guard ) Get the general. Wake him up.
ELGYN: Look, if there's a problem tell me what it is. We can work this out, there is no need to get emotional . St Just is silent, standing in the same position he was when Ripley attacked Johner. Hands behind his back.
CALL: They got nothing to do with this, Wren. ELGYN ( to Call ) To do with what? WREN I don't give a fuck. It's way too late for that. You're all looking at a firing squad. You hear me?
ELGYN: I do. St Just? With lighting precision, St Just raises his hands and blows of the guards away. He takes out a third to his left without even looking that way. One guard gets off a shot with his burner, frying Rane before Hillard's elbow knocks his teeth well into his throat. Christie tackles the next as Johner presses a latch on the bottom of his thermos the top half flies off, revealing handle of a gun inside. He grabs it and another guard runs. Johner doesn't have time to pull the gun-out of the the so he SHOOTS right through it, sending the guard flying..
GEDIMAN: What the fuck. You three! Go! Sector two. All but one of the guards rush out to investigate. Gediman works the surveilliance screen, trying to see what's happening
ELGYN: Nice and easy, boys . Call starts to take off.
CALL: I'm gonna finish this. Elgyn grabs her by the hair, roughly pulls her back.
ELGYN: You're going nowhere, Annalee.
GEDIMAN: Oh, God He bolts for the failsafe but it's too late as the blood eats all the way through - the two aliens DIVE through the hole. just as Gediman hits the button freezing gas fills the chamber but there's nothing to freeze.
GEDIMAN: No no no! He hits another sequence and the door slides open. He rushes in, kneels by the hole and looks down.
GEDIMAN: Christ. They could be anywhere. He looks up at the guard and an alien FLIES UP at him through the It was hanging on the ceiling below and it pulls him through before he can breathe a decent scream. The guard just stares, shaking.
CHRISTIE: Who gives a shit! We have to get out of here.
ELGYN: If Call's got something going here I want to know what it is!
WREN: You brought her here.. Two more guards rush in. Johner shoves' his gun in Wren's mouth.
JOHNER: Drop them! I'm not fucking with you! CHRISTIE ( indicating the dead soldiers ) Boss, we got bodies here. It doesn't matter what Call's up to, we're all fucked now.
CALL: I have to stop him. If I don't we'll all die. WREN ( pulls his mouth away ) Elgyn, tell me what you know. If she's alone in this.
HILLARD: In what? Johner puts his gun to Call's temple now.
JOHNER: Does anyone want me to make this simple? Far away, a SCREAM. Everyone stops. Wren turns slowly in the direction it came from.
WREN: CUT TO: INT. HALLWAY BY LABS A technican RUNS screaming just as an alien LEAPS on him from behind. The CAMERA RUSHES AWAY, frenzied as the scene, to pick up a guard in the next hall firing wildly at the ceiling as an alien dissappears up an airvent. There are three bodies lying dead before us.
PEREZ: Ensign! Damage Report! Ensign! Nothing. On one of the screens, an alien is briefly visible. Perez stiffens at the sight of it. He punches up a different sector. The labs, and here is a badly wounded Containment is impossible, sir. I think they swept the barracks. PEREZ ( to himself ) A military strike.. Christ Jesus . After a beat, he starts punching in the emergency override codes.
PEREZ: Containment is impossible, sir. I think they swept the barracks. PEREZ ( to himself ) A military strike.. Christ Jesus . After a beat, he starts punching in the emergency override codes.
LIEUTENANT: Containment is impossible, sir. I think they swept the barracks. PEREZ ( to himself ) A military strike.. Christ Jesus . After a beat, he starts punching in the emergency override codes.
FATHER: Emergency. Initiate evacuation procedures immediately. All hands. This is not a drill. One soldier gets a bead on an alien with his burner - fries italong with two of his friends. They're out of commission, but the alien is hurt only momentarily. It bounds forward, takes out his face.
FATHER: Emergency. Initiate evacuation procedures .
PEREZ: Bay three! Go! The late soldiers make for the next boat as Perez seals the hatch. He hits the eject button and steps back.
WREN: ( to Call ) What have you done?
NO!: ( to Call ) What have you done?
CALL: Nothing. Not a goddanm thing. You thought you could control it.
ELGYN: All right. We make for the Betty. Can he walk? He is pointing at Rane, who nods, standing. HILLARD Betty's all the way across the ship! Who knows what's in CALL ( indicating Wren ) He does. One of the soldiers steps forward. DiStephano. DISTEPHANO ( to Wren ) Sir, we have to go. ( to Elgyn ) Let him go. No quarrel.
ELGYN: You can have him when we're off. Not before. They start out, dragging Wren along. Guns still on Call and the What about Vriess?
JOHNER: Fuck Vriess!
SERGEANT: Seal off that sector! A soldier runs to obey, working the door controls.
VRIESS: The soldier sees him, but the fear on the boy's face telegraphs his- Vreiess starts pumping toward the door. He's strong, picking up speed, but the alien rounds the corner and bolts after him. Vriess can't even look back as the thing gains on him. The door begins to come down, the soldier finishing the sequence and running off. Vriess rolls, face set the alien a few feet behind, reaching for him An EXPLOSION far away ROCKS THE SHIP the hall tilted momentarily, Vriess gets a boost as he rockets downhill, the beast still on him, the door closing, too low for him to clear. He gets there and SLAMS a lever, his chair FLATTENS out to a dolly position, his head just CLEARS the closing door as the alien SLAMS into it, Vriess spinning out and flying off the chair it tilts, landing in a heap next to him. Lying still on the ground, he listens as the beast slams against the door a few more times, then fades off.
VRIESS: Fuck everything.. He reaches up for the chair and from the back of it he pulls out a CUT TO: INT. LIFEBOAT BAY 5 - CONTINUOUS Perez is trying to maintain order. He is failing. Grabs a corporal.
PEREZ: Muster a squad to search for survivors!
CORPORAL: Fuck no! Fuck no! Fuck you! Perez slams him to the ground with his fist. An ALIEN LEAPS OUT at him from the ceiling. The soldiers scatter, Perez just leaping out of the way
PEREZ: Shoot it! Fry it! A couple of men fire their burners, to little effect. One soldier runs up to the action. His head is bloodied, his expression vengefully grim. The soldier whips out a pistol, private.issue, he takes a bead on the And the soldier FIRES pumps three bullets into the beast sends it flying back toward the window. Perez is riveted by the sight of: ANGLE: DROPS OF BLOOD big ones, hitting the window. Everything seems to move slowly now - the alien, struggling as the soldier pumps two more bullets into it, the other soldiers, Perez the monster falls and the BLOOD EATS THROUGH
PEREZ: And the soldier FIRES pumps three bullets into the beast sends it flying back toward the window. Perez is riveted by the sight of: ANGLE: DROPS OF BLOOD big ones, hitting the window. Everything seems to move slowly now - the alien, struggling as the soldier pumps two more bullets into it, the other soldiers, Perez the monster falls and the BLOOD EATS THROUGH
NO!: And the soldier FIRES pumps three bullets into the beast sends it flying back toward the window. Perez is riveted by the sight of: ANGLE: DROPS OF BLOOD big ones, hitting the window. Everything seems to move slowly now - the alien, struggling as the soldier pumps two more bullets into it, the other soldiers, Perez the monster falls and the BLOOD EATS THROUGH
PEREZ: Get out! Everyone! Now! Soldiers are beginning to get it.. The window CRACKS, begins to SHAKE as the blood is almost through it. Even the soldier who shot the alien has stopped, his face frozen in horror at what he's about to accomplish. Perez shoves him, herds the rest out, looking back
PEREZ: Clear the sector! at the window, the blood is almost through Men are pouring out of the hall some move down a side hall and SLAM the door shut behind them, but most are making for the main exit Warning. Potential hullbreach. Clear sector. The blood eats a hole in the window the nearest soldier is sucked back against the window he SCREAMS as he is sucked through a hole no bigger than his fist. Still men are falling over each other, Perez herding them out. A huge CRACKING sound, and Perez shuts his eyes. The window explodes outward, the air blowing everything int space. Debris, vehicles, men, all tangled and dead as they blown out into the ANGLE: THE SECTOR DOORS SLAM shut instantly one cutting right through a soldier halfway out.
FATHER: Warning. Potential hullbreach. Clear sector. The blood eats a hole in the window the nearest soldier is sucked back against the window he SCREAMS as he is sucked through a hole no bigger than his fist. Still men are falling over each other, Perez herding them out. A huge CRACKING sound, and Perez shuts his eyes. The window explodes outward, the air blowing everything int space. Debris, vehicles, men, all tangled and dead as they blown out into the ANGLE: THE SECTOR DOORS SLAM shut instantly one cutting right through a soldier halfway out.
FATHER: Breach contained. Sector five nonfunctional.
DISTEPHMO: I can't. Johner puts his gun to the soldier's head.
WREN: He can't! The sector's closed. The hull's been breached!
ELGYN: Okay, which way?
WREN: We'll have to go through the holding cells. Here.
ELGYN: All right. They turn left, entering
ELGYN: Can you get that one open? It comes from the rafters, dropping down on Elgyn in a heartbeat. He barely has time to scream before it shoots its tongue through the back of his skull. Hillard has time. She SCREAMS as her lover's brains come out his The beast leaps at the group, scattering them like bowling pins as it claws into one of the guards. Everybody else is scrambling for cover. St Just tries to escape by running past the beast - its tail lashes out, tangling his feet and tripping him up, his head smashing against a Another guard hits it with the burner it shrieks and lands on him. Johner shoots at it but is far too panicked to hit it. Call has backed to the far wall she desperately works the controls to open the door. It starts to rise.
CALL: Christie! Hillard! Come on! The door rises fully. Ripley stands behind it. Call starts back, not sure what the woman will do. Ripley surveys the scene. The Alien, burrowing its head into the belly of the guard, stops. Looks up. Everyone watches as the two creatures sense each other. ThE alien hisses. rears back. Ripley looks away, contemplative We see a gamut of emotions cross her face, but her posture passive, sacrificial. She does not move. Everyone watches, too afraid to breathe. The alien LUNGES at her, leaping across the room in two bounds. It's on her and she SPINS, GPABBING IT, and HURLS IT AWAY. It lands in a tangle but is up again in a microsecond, jumps at her, knocks her back into the room, on her, its claws digging into her skin, piston tongue at her face, inches away. She locks an arm around its slick, long head and pulls back we hear its tendons strain, snap. CALL ( to a guard ) Shoot it! Shoot them both! She grabs his gun and BURNS them both. Two less-than-human SCREAMS fill the room as they briefly disentangle, thrown apart. The beast recovers first, dodging the next blast and going for Ripley Ripley, on her back, reaches behind her, grabs a table leg and with inhuman strength brings the table down on the monster's head. She dives at it as it comes out from under.. Call shoots as Ripley hits the alien, they're both fried as Ripley's momentum sends them over a railing and they FALL TWENTY FEET the Alien lands with a spine snapping crunch, Ripley only slightly better. A few crew members rush to look over the railing. Christie starts down the spiral staircase to that level.
JOHNER: Where are you going? The creature rolls back onto Ripley, grabbing her with its dying strength. Her face is rigid with pain and anger as she holds it off. its jaws open, dripping shaking. The tongue SHOOTS OUT and Ripley GRABS IT. HOLDS IT. A scream wells up in her throat. A totally animal killshriek that she SCREAMS, victorious, as she RIPS THE ALIEN'S TONGUE OUT OF ITS FACE. She stands, bellows another warrior cry. The crew has gathered near. They watch her, awed, wary. Ripley walks slowly up to them up to Call. Ripley looks a tad pissed. Call tenses, maybe wishing she hadn't shot Ripley as well. Ripley takes Call's hand, puts the tongue in it. walks on. Call looks at the dripping souvenier. The pincers at the end still What the FUCK is going on here?
CHRISTIE: What the FUCK is going on here?
RANE: What was that thing? Are there more of that thing? JOHNER ( to Call ) Make a hell of a necklace.
CHRISTIE: Same thing we were doing. We get the fuck.
RANE: What if there's more? Let's stay here and let the army guys deal. Someone will come. I mean, where are the fucking army guys? St Just is very calmly looking up at the rafters, guns drawn
CHRISTIE: Doctor. You know what that thing is?
WREN: I do.
CHRISTIE: And there's others. How many? The doctor looks around, almost guiltily.
WREN: Thirty! We are fucked in our pink bottoms if there's thirty of those There'll be more. Everyone looks around at her. She is squatting in the corner facing away from them.
JOHNER: Thirty! We are fucked in our pink bottoms if there's thirty of those There'll be more. Everyone looks around at her. She is squatting in the corner facing away from them.
RIPLEY: There'll be more. Everyone looks around at her. She is squatting in the corner facing away from them.
RIPLEY: They'll breed. In a few hours there'll be twice that number. ( she stands, approaches them ) So who do I have to fuck to get off this boat?
CHRISTIE: You bought your ticket when you killed that thing. welcome aboard.
CALL: Christie, she's not human. Wren cloned her because she was carrying an alien in her. She could turn
JOHNER: Nobody cares about your opinion, you bitch, you fucking mole
CALL: She'll turn on us! Just like that!
CHRISTIE: I don't give a syphallitic fuck whether you people can get along or not. If we've got a wish to live then we work together, and that includes bug-lady.
CALL: You can't trust her.
CHRISTIE: I don't trust anyone. CUT TO: INT. CHAMBER/CELLBLOCK - A BIT LATER The group is still in the adjoining chamber, but looking here into the cellblock where Ripley had been. DiStephano and St Just come first, guns ready, looking about them. They are followed by Christie and Wren.
WREN: There's a console in the guards, station. We can punch up a diagnostic of the ship and plan a route. To your ship.
CHRISTIE: That likes me fine. He signals for the others to follow, everyone moving cautiously.
JOHNER: Via con Dios, man. Hillard stands. Call puts ahand on her shoulder but Hillard moves away, a distrustful look on her face. Ripley, bringing up the rear, watches the whole group with a sort of fascinated detatchment. Call looks back at her. Ripley smiles, coldly.
VRIESS: Who sits in his chair, a shotgun in each hand, eyes wide. twitchier than they.
JOHNER: Oh, fuck.
CALL: VRIESS ( mock casual ) Hey, whatchyou guys doing? Hey, Annalee.
CHRISTIE: Thought you were toast for certain.
VRIESS: You've seen that fucking thing? WREN ( suspiciously ) Where were you?
VRIESS: I was down by what do you mean? I was in maintenance, checking out your oxidation systems.
JOHNER: Doc's got a bug up his ass 'cause Call's a mole and he thinks we're a VRIESS ( looking at Call ) She's a what?
JOHNER: A mole. A fucking spy. Vriess looks hit harder by that information than anyone.
CHRISTIE: We got'a mission here, people. Let's keep moving. They do.
WREN: We've had hull breach by the lifeboats, here on level five, and down Jesus, right by the engine room. We're very lucky. ST JUST ( sarcastically ) Lucky we.
CHRISTIE: What about the Betty? Our ship.
WREN: The dock seems to be intact.
CHRISTIE: Then we head for it.
JOHNER: Can we track those fucking things?
WREN: We could get to the Betty and they could be all over it!
JOHNER: We could get to the Betty and they could be all over it!
RANE: Are you toting a better fucking idea?
WREN: All of the activity seems'to have been in the aft-sector, by the There's no reason to suppose they'd move
RIPLEY: They won't. Everybody looks at her.
RIPLEY: They're breeding. They've got new bodies to work on. They'll stay close. If they send anybody out, it'll be here. Where the. meat is.
CALL: 'The meat' . Jesus.
ST JUST: They're breeding. How long does that take?
RIPLEY: Or less. The process has accelerated, something to do with the cloned Faster we get from here to there, the better.
WREN: Or less. The process has accelerated, something to do with the cloned Faster we get from here to there, the better.
CHRISTIE: Faster we get from here to there, the better.
ST JUST: With all the devils of hell in between.
JOHNER: Well, if we want to make decent time I say we ditch the cripple. ( to Vriess ) No offense. VRIESS ( giving him the finger ) None taken.
HILLARD: Nobody's left behind, Johner. Not even you. Her voice is quiet, mourning still thick in it. Nobody backtalks her.
CHRISTIE: So what's our route?
WREN: I'm trying to figure it. we can cut through the labs, but we're blocked on both sides here, I'm not sure
DISTEPHMO: Sir? There is the lift.
WREN: Show me. DiStephano works the console and the hologram splits, the route he's indicating revealed.
DISTEPHMO: The lifts. They run straight from the top of the ship down to engineering. No stops, but if we can get in the shaft, there's a maintenece access tunnel here ( points to the center of the shaft ) that runs above level one deck. Take us right to the dock.
CHRISTIE: Sounds reasonable.
DISTEPHANO: I don't have the code for the access tunnel door.
WREN: I can override.
DISTEPHMO: ( indicating the route ) Then we head through the labs, then down to the kitchen. To the bottom of the shaft. Up, through the tunnel, and onto the ship. Home free.
VRIESS: They never check the chair. He pulls out a grenade launcher. It's so compact it's almost cute, cradled one handed like an uzi.
VRIESS: She looks around and he tosses it to her. The gesture is not acconmpanied by any show of warmth.
VRIESS: Try not to shoot your foot off.
WREN: You people should know
ST JUST: We.won't shoot at the windows, Doc.
WREN: No. The aliens, they bleed molecular acid.
CHRISTIE: That's right, I saw that.
VRIESS: So did I.
JOHNER: We can't shoot them? Fuck that, I'm shooting them.
WREN: This is a big vessel, and for the most part we should be okay. But if we get anywhere near the outer hull and start strafing them. He indicates the hologram, the sections of the ship missing. Everyone gets it.
CHISTIE: If we're clear then let's get on it. We'll go by twos
RIPLEY: We're moving.
CHRISTIE: The ship is moving. 1 can feel it.
RIPLEY: The ship is moving. 1 can feel it.
RANE: I don't feel shit what, do you mean they're piloting this fucking This ship has stealthrun, even if we were moving there's no way she could feel it. CALL She's right. Call is working the computer now.
VRIESS: This ship has stealthrun, even if we were moving there's no way she could feel it. CALL She's right. Call is working the computer now.
CALL: The ship's been going since the attack.
WREN: It's uh, it's standard, I think.
DISTEPHANO: That's right. If the ship takes on any serious damage it autopilots back to homebase. CALL ( to Wren, pissed ) You were planning to let us know this?
WREN: I forgot.
HILLARD: What is homebase?
WREN: Oh, God. Oh, you bastard.
CALL: Oh, God. Oh, you bastard.
JOHNER: Earth? I'm not going to that fucking slum.
CALL: If those things get to Earth, It'll be. RIPLEY ( not very concerned ). The end.
ST JUST: That's not our problem.
CALL: We've got to blow the ship.
CHRISTIE: We don't have to do anything till we get off it. How long till we get Three hours. Almost.
CALL: Three hours. Almost.
CHRISTIE: Then that's what we got. Let's move.
CALL: Don't you understand what this means?
CHRISTIE: I understand my hide. And I like it on me. Let's go. ( to Ripley ) What are you called, Ripley? You mind taking point? She moves to the head of the line, and they start.
RIPLEY: Johner moves up next to her.
JOHNER: You've come up against these things before?
RIPLEY: So what did you do ?
JOHNER: So what did you do ?
RIPLEY: I died. He lags behind a bit, thrown.
JOHNER: That wasn't really what I wanted to hear. DiStephano points to a door.
DISTEPFANO: This way. And Ripley leads them in.
JOHNER: Fuck me .
CHRISTIE: Let's keep moving. The door to the next chamber is ajar. Christie and Vriess in, then St Just, then Ripley.
PURVIS: Get away from me!
CHRISTIE: Drop the rod, man. Do it!
PURVIS: What's going on? St Just looks at his name, stitched in his coveralls.
ST JUST: Purvis. What's going on is that we're getting the fuck off this ghost What ship? Where am I? 1 was in cryo on the way to Xarem, work crew for the nickel refinery. I wake up, I don't understand. I saw something. horrible .
PURVIS: What ship? Where am I? 1 was in cryo on the way to Xarem, work crew for the nickel refinery. I wake up, I don't understand. I saw something. horrible .
CALL: Look, you come with us. It's dangerous here. Ripley SNIFFS. Cocks her head.
RIPLEY: Leave him.
CALL: Fuck you. We're not leaving anyone on this boat.
RIPLEY: He's carrying..
JOHNER: He's what?
RIPLEY: He's got one.. inside him. I can smell it.
PURVIS: Inside me? What?
JOHNER: Shit, I don't want one of those things birthing anywhere near my ass.
VRIESS: It's a bad risk.
CALL: We can't just leave him.
VRIESS: I thought you came here to stop them from spreading. CALL ( to Wren, torn ) Isn't there a process, can't you stop it?
ST JUST: We've got no time for that.
WREN: I couldn't do it here. The lab's torn apart. ST JUST ( quietly ) I could do him. Painless, back of the head. Might be the best way.
CALL: There's gotta be another way. If we freeze him
PURVIS: WHAT'S IN-FUCKING-SIDE ME?!?!? They all look at him, a bit sheepishly.
WREN: A parasite. A foreign element that .. Ripley steps in front of the doctor.
RIPLEY: There's a monster in your stomach. They ( indicating the smugglers ) hijacked your cryotube and sold you to him ( indicatingWren ) and he put an alien in you. In a few hours it will punch its way through your chest and you'll die. Any questions? Purvis is wide-eyed, stunned. After a moment he stammers
PURVIS: Who are you?
RIPLEY: I'm the monster's mother. She starts heading out of the chamber. Call turns to the others.
CALL: He comes with us. We can freeze him on the Betty and get the doctor to remove it later.
WREN: All right.
JOHNER: Since when are you in fucking charge?
CALL: Since you were born without balls.
VRIESS: Ease off, people. CHRISTIE ( to Purvis, herding him along ) Come with us. You might even live. Get twitchy on me and you will be They move out.
WREN: She's gone.
ST JUST: The Queen.
WREN: The Queen.
JOHNER: He is loooking into the room.the queen was kept in. A residue of slime is all that's left here. Beyond the queen's chamber is another observation room. Wren indicates that they have to go through. Suddenly a burner blast FIRES at them, just missing them as they duck. They hear more blasts, not aimed at them, and screams.
CALL: We've got to help them!
RIPLEY: You bitch, let go of me! She does, and Call rises. The noise is gone. What she can see of the soldiers-is parts. She is shaking at the vision when an alien RISES in front on the soldiers. Call ducks back down, terrified. Christie hisses at her.
CALL: You bitch, let go of me! She does, and Call rises. The noise is gone. What she can see of the soldiers-is parts. She is shaking at the vision when an alien RISES in front on the soldiers. Call ducks back down, terrified. Christie hisses at her.
CHRISTIE: You want to get yourself killed, then you run solo.
ST JUST: How many?
RIPLEY: At least two.
ST JUST: Think they heard us?
RIPLEY: Fine by me .
HILLARD: Fine by me .
JOHNER: Yeah, let 'em come.
CHRISTIE: Wren. Any other way around? Wren shakes his head.
CHRISTIE: We can't just walk in there. WREN ( thinking ) No. No, but they can.
CHRISTIE: Say again?
WREN: The cages all have failsafes. Liquid nitrogen. Get 'em to come to us and I can freeze em.
CHRISTIE: Excellent. Get-ready. Wren goes over to the failsafe button. The others look out at the Okay. ( calls out ) Hey!
CHRISTIE: Okay. ( calls out ) Hey!
VRIESS: Hey, guys!
JOHNER: Here, kitty. The aliens react, start for the cage. Four 'of them. They reach the edge of it and stop. Look around, at each other.. But go nowhere.
DISTEPHMO: They're not coming.
JOHNER: Hey! Fresh meat here!
RANE: Oh, bullshit!
CHRISTIE: What do we do?
JOHNER: Shoot the fucking things!
VRIESS: There's too many, and we don't have the angle.
RIPLEY: Give em a reason to go in there. Throw somebody in.
CALL: Give em a reason to go in there. Throw somebody in.
RIPLEY: Give em a reason to go in there. Throw somebody in.
HILLARD: Fuck you!
RIPLEY: DO we want to live? Give em her. She indicates Call, who looks around, nervous at the lack of protest about this idea. Ripley points at Rane.
RIPLEY: Or the skinny one, it doesn't matter. We can't resist the smell of We ?
CALL: We ?
JOHNER: Fuck, I'm with her! Give 'em Annalee!
CHRISTIE: Now hold on
DISTEPHMO: You people are insane.
JOHNER: Now you're not exactly in the club either, soldier. People start pointing guns at each other.
RANE: Fuck you all, I'm not dying for you.
CALL: Stop this. Ripley grabs her. Looks at the others.
RIPLEY: Come on! Do you want to live or not? ( to Call ) It won't hurt long. CALL ( terrified ) RIPLEY ( to Wren )
NOW!: Wren hits the button just as three aliens are bounding across the cage they're almost to the posse, people screaming, scrambling, when the freezing gas hits, turning the beasts to statues. The forth one sees this and flees, but St Just stands and put four bullets in it from forty yards. It slumps over. Everyone is silent, stunned. Breathing hard. VRIESS ( realizes ) Ripley nods.
VRIESS: That's how they knew it was a trap. They couldn't smell the fear. RIPLEY ( looking at Call ) So I gave them some. JOHNER ( gleefully ) Son of a bitch! He pops up and FIRES at the frozen aliens - - they EXPLODE into CUT TO: EXT. AURIGA Gildihg through space, passing Jupiter's moons with dazzling speed.
CALL: I think you still might. Ripley smiles. She may be right.
RIPLEY: I want to live.
CALL: And you don't care about anything else.
RIPLEY: CALL ( bitterly ) I guess you're more human than I thought.
RIPLEY: Why did you come here?
CALL: To kill you, remember? ( after a beat ) Because somebody has to.
RIPLEY: well it's not me. I did my time. Now I just want to. She stops dead, staring at a door. CLONING STORAGE FACILITY is written on it. Stencilled beneath that is `numbers 1-7`. Ripley stares. Tries the door, which opens.
DISTEPHMO: That's not the way.
CHRISTIE: Ripley, we got no time for sightseeing. Ripley is looking down at her arm, at the 8 tattooed on it. She looks at Call. Looks back at wren.
WREN: Ripley. don't. She enters.
NUMBER SEVEN: Kill . us . Ripley's eyes go saucered as it speaks speaks out of nothing resembling a mouth. Ripley staggers back a step, shaking now. This is too much to bear.
CALL: Ripley turns, slowly, still in a fever dream. Call cocks the grenade launcher with a loud CRACK. Her eyes meet Call tosses it to Ripley as the crew steps back and even a catches it Ripley FIRES, a grenade chugging to the end of room and BURSTING in fire and noise, she FIRES another, tissue and steel exploding into flame, she turns to number seven, hand shakes momentarily.And she FIRES, the poor creature dissolving in a cloud of flame. Freezing gas jets fill the room, extinguishing potential spread, but the heart of the firestorm continues to rage in the chamber. She backs out, the crew waiting for her outside. The launcher falls loudly to the ground. Ripley turns to Wren, her face rigid with pain. Wren backs up a step, looking around him for protection that the others have no thought of providing.
CALL: Ripley. Don't do it. Ripley stops. weariness suffusing her expression.
RIPLEY: Don't do what? The tension pases. Wren breathes a little sigh of relief. Call PUNCHES him across the jaw, his head whipping around as collapses to the ground. Call starts down the hall, not even looking at him.
CALL: Don't do that. Feeling his jaw, Wren actually smiles at the absurdity of all this. It's kind of winning. Christie helps him up.
CHRISTIE: Had it coming, Doc. Johner looks in at the burning lab.
JOHNER: What's the big deal? Fucking waste of ammo.
ST JUST: Let's move before anything comes to check out the noise.
JOHNER: Chicks, man..
DISTEPHANO: We go down from here. CHRISTIE ( to Vriess ) We got to lose the chair. Vriess.
VRIESS: I know.
CHRISTIE: Kawlang maneuver, all right? Vriess is pulling a coil of cords from the chair.
VRIESS: Just like old times.
RIPLEY: No. You can't. Ripley looks down. The floor here is covered with a foot or so of dark Ripley steps into it, moves up a few paces. The others gingerly follow. Vriess is facing the back. He looks up.
VRIESS: The cooling tanks. They must have blown during the trouble.
JOHNER: The nasties couldn't have done it, could they?
HILLARD: What for.?
WREN: Down here. He is at the front with Ripley and-Call, where the water is waste deep. He looks down at a stairwell, just the top of the railing visible above the murky water.
RIPLEY: There's no other way?
WREN: We're at the bottom of the ship. Some of the worst damage is down Most of the sections are sealed off.
RIPLEY: You're sure?
WREN: There's the noncom's entrance back there, but it's flooded too, and it's a longer run.
CALL: He's right. We're gonna have to do it this way.
WREN: It's just through the kitchen, then up, maybe seventy feet.
RIPLEY: I don't like it.
ST JUST: What's to like? CHRISTIE ( to vriess ) You ready to get wet, partner?
VRIESS: Oh yeah.
HILLARD: You sure about the distance?
WREN: No locked doors?
CALL: No locked doors?
WREN: It's an open hall. Just keep left when you hit the bottom of the This sucks.
JOHNER: This sucks.
ST JUST: These are disposables. They can take it.
DISTEPHANO: Disposables. I heard about those. How many rounds?
ST JUST: Twenty. Split points, give you a good hole even at the smaller caliber.
DISTEPHANO: ST JUST They're big with hitters. 'Cause you throw em away after the job. Nobody likes throwing away a weapon they're attached to. You know? He smiles at Di Stephano, who looks a little uneasy about the turn the conversation has taken. He joins the others who are getting ready to dive..
ST JUST: They're big with hitters. 'Cause you throw em away after the job. Nobody likes throwing away a weapon they're attached to. You know? He smiles at Di Stephano, who looks a little uneasy about the turn the conversation has taken. He joins the others who are getting ready to dive..
CALL: Do I have to tell everyone to take a deep breath? A couple of the guys smile.
VRIESS: Christie, do me a favor. When we hit the surface on the other side. no backstroke. Okay? CHRISTIE ( laughing ) You'll be forever blowing bubbles. On three. He counts down, the two suck in enormous breaths and dive right behind Call and Ripley. One by one the entire crew slips down into the black water.
CHRISTIE: Get it! Kill it!
CALL: The blood'll burn you! Throw it! He does, and Johner nails it in midflight. Hillard and Johner pull Di Stephano out of the water, but he is not ANGLE: UNDER THE SURFACE Ripley is grabbed by an alien and St Just comes up behind her and shoots it. They swim up and away from the spreading, lethal bloodpool.
CHRISTIE: A trap! They set a goddamn ambush!
JOHNER: Give me that! He pulls the burner off Di Stephano's body, even as Call is giving him mouth to mouth. Johner flips the gun open and FIRES at the water, the whole thing SMOKING and sizzling with the electrical charge. we hear an alien wail bubble from below the surface. JOHNER ( grinning feverishly ) Okay! Everybody out of the pool!
VRIESS: Let's get the fuck! Di Stephano sputters back to life. Ripley picks him up with one hand, HILLARD ( to Wren ) Which way?
WREN: Up here. He takes off, the others following.
WREN: Up through the lift shaft! He stops at a pair of sliding doors, starts working the panel. Ripley come up to the doors and pulls them apart with a grunt.
ST JUST: He's refering to the noise and shadow of approaching aliens. She herds them into the shaft.
WREN: He starts climbing. It's not that hard there are ladders in each shaft section. Call comes up behind him. Ripley and others pair off on other ladders. They climb fast, they're three stories up before the aliens begin POUNDING on the metal door, it buckles under their might.
UP!: He starts climbing. It's not that hard there are ladders in each shaft section. Call comes up behind him. Ripley and others pair off on other ladders. They climb fast, they're three stories up before the aliens begin POUNDING on the metal door, it buckles under their might.
JOHNER: Not far! Still POUNDING one alien gets its head in, looks up, hisses, pulls it out.
WREN: Not far! Still POUNDING one alien gets its head in, looks up, hisses, pulls it out.
CALL: It's jammed! Shit! Gun! She hands him her gun and without hesitation he SHOOTS HER THROUGH THE
WREN: It's jammed! Shit! Gun! She hands him her gun and without hesitation he SHOOTS HER THROUGH THE
VRIESS: He fires up at Wren, but Wren has punched in the code and slipped through the opening door.. Ripley LEAPS through the air and grabs the ledge, hauling herself up just in time to see the door shut. The lock lights turn red. She SLAMS against the door, but to no avail. The aliens are getting closer. St Just, the closest to the bottom, suddenly lets go of the ladder. His knees hooked over a rung, he drops, hangs up side down, his guns filling his hands. He blows several holes in the nearest alien. Ripley is furious, maybe surprised just how so. Suddenly an alien RISES OVER THE LEDGE, it's not three feet away from her and she SCREAMS, HURLS herself at it and they both go FLYING OFF into-space, they hit the wall on the other side, they fall. RIPLEY GRABS a pole, it practically tears her arm out of her socket but she holds on, the alien isn't so lucky, it plummets unable to find puchase. We see it fall past the unmoving body of Call.
NOO!: He fires up at Wren, but Wren has punched in the code and slipped through the opening door.. Ripley LEAPS through the air and grabs the ledge, hauling herself up just in time to see the door shut. The lock lights turn red. She SLAMS against the door, but to no avail. The aliens are getting closer. St Just, the closest to the bottom, suddenly lets go of the ladder. His knees hooked over a rung, he drops, hangs up side down, his guns filling his hands. He blows several holes in the nearest alien. Ripley is furious, maybe surprised just how so. Suddenly an alien RISES OVER THE LEDGE, it's not three feet away from her and she SCREAMS, HURLS herself at it and they both go FLYING OFF into-space, they hit the wall on the other side, they fall. RIPLEY GRABS a pole, it practically tears her arm out of her socket but she holds on, the alien isn't so lucky, it plummets unable to find puchase. We see it fall past the unmoving body of Call.
VRIESS: It's on us! Christie turns, aims Vriess grabs the ladder as Christie FIRES, but the alien is too close, it grabs Christie, spurting blood all over him. He SCREAMS, lets go of the ladder Vriess takes the weight of both as Christie fires again, the alien flying off and down the shaft.
HILLARD: We gotta go! The last alien suddenly starts scurrying back down after his brothers.
RIPLEY: We're locked in.
JOHNER: How far to the next door?
PURVIS: How far to the next door?
DISTEPHANO: All the way.
RIPLEY: Then we climb. They start, moving as fast as they can. VRIESSS ( to Christie ) You just hang on, man. I'll get us there. He starts climbing up, impressively fast considering the burden hanging from his back. JOHNER ( to Ripley ) Are they going for reinforcements?
RIPLEY: Fucked if I know. They climb. And climb, the minutes stretching out, still no door. Ripley easily ahead of the rest. I think I see the door. PURVIS ( exhausted ) Vriess is having increasing trouble. Hillard notices him lagging behind, and why.
RIPLEY: I think I see the door. PURVIS ( exhausted ) Vriess is having increasing trouble. Hillard notices him lagging behind, and why.
HILLARD: Vriess! Jesus! Vriess is moving very quickly, considering. But the effort is becoming too much.
VRIESS: We're coming. Johner scrambles down next to Vriess. he checks the pulse in Christie's neck. Vriess, man. he's dead. Refusing to hear it, Vriess struggles to climb further.
VRIESS: We'll get him to medlab. just a little while . Johner looks over at Hillard. Without saying a word, she pull out a good-sized hunting knife, flicks it open. She slices through the cord holding them together, and Christie's body falls free. Vriess shuts his eyes, feeling it. ANGLE: DOWN THE SHAFT There is silence as Christie's body drops down the black abyss Until, from up the shaft next to where he fell, we see two ALIENS
PURVIS: Fuck! Company! Hillard looks up the shaft.
HILLARD: How much further?,
JOHNER: Too fucking far. Let's G0 ! They start to climb, but the aliens are making much better time. A loud CLACKING sounds from the bottom of the shaft. A few of them look down.
JOHNER: They can work the elevators? Is there anything fucking else we should know about them?! He's addressing this at Ripley, but she's as puzzled as the rest of The lift comes up to them, stops suddenly as emergency brake is They wait, guns ready. Out of the hatch pops Call, not especially dead.
CALL: Get on! A moment of stunned silence, then they all jump on top of the lift. Call drops back down inside. An alien comes up level with the lift, prepares to jump. St Just shoots the shit out of it.
HILLARD: Where are the others?
RIPLEY: ANGLE: INSIDE Call hits the emergency button and the lift stops halfway in front of the door - - giving both Ripley and Call access. Bu the alien is still grabbing for her Ripley pries open the doors again, the crew pouring out into the hall. Ripley follows, jumps down and opens the lift doors The alien hisses at Ripley as she pulls Call out the -alien grabs Call's ankle, but Ripley wrenches her free. They roll out but the alien is still fighting, Pulling itself inside the lift. Ripley grabs Hillardl's shotgun. Levels it at the cables holding the lift. FIRES. The lift PLUMMIETS, the alien still halfway in. It shoots down the shaft picking up the second alien on its way down, neither beast able to get its bearing and get out of the way as The lift SMASHES into the bottom of the shaft, crushing both the Aliens to jelly.
JOHNER: Eat that, fuckneck!! They all breathe hard, exhausted, before they can muster for the next Call stands with her back to them.
VRIESS: Baby, am I glad to see you. I thought dickbag took you out for sure. Are you, hurt?
CALL: I'm fine.
DISTEPHANO: You got body armour on?
CALL: Yeah. Come on. Ripley isn't buying.
RIPLEY: You were Gunshot. I saw.
CALL: I'm fine! Ripley spins her around. Call stares at Ripley, sullenly a small trickle of milky white fluid comes from her nostril. Ripley looks down.
JOHNER: Call's a goddam sythetic!
HILLARD: Son of a bitch. Little Annalee's just full of surprises. RIPLEY ( quietly ) I should have known.
ST JUST: Couldn't smell this one out?
RIPLEY: No, I mean. all that crap about being human - there's no one so zealous as a Born Again. VRIESS ( to Call ) You're an LM7, aren't you? Is that it?
CALL: Leave me alone. Her voice shocks her more than anyone her vocal track slip affected by the wounds. The voice is a shade slow, and echoes strangely.
VRIESS: Call .. CALL ( bitterly ) ST JUST LM7? Shit. That explains a lot. YRIESS ( to Ripley ) The latest and best. They were supposed to revitalize the synthetic Instead they buried it. Ripley looks at the girl.
ST JUST: LM7? Shit. That explains a lot. YRIESS ( to Ripley ) The latest and best. They were supposed to revitalize the synthetic Instead they buried it. Ripley looks at the girl.
RIPLEY: They were-too good.
VRIESS: Oh yeah. Overrode their own behavioral inhibitors. Didn't feel like being told what to do. The government ordered a recall. Fucking massacre.
HILLARD: 1 always heard there were a few that got out alive, but man. I never thought I'd see one. Johner starts laughing.
JOHNER: Oh, Christ. Doing fucking nickel and dime border runs, selling second hand junk to the farm belt. and we're carrying the most expensive piece of contraband in the system. That's rich. PURVIS ( getting anxious ) It's great, she's a toaster oven. Can we leave now? Vriess tries to touch Call's wound.
VRIESS: Let me see. Call pulls away.
JOHNER: Yeah, get your socket wrench, Vriess. Maybe she just needs an oil change.
RIPLEY: Let's go. They start off again, Johner and St Just bringing up the rear
JOHNER: Can't believe I almost fucked the thing.
ST JUST: Yeah, like you've never fucked a robot.
RIPLEY: DiStephano. Where are we?
DISTEPHANO: Upper decks. Storage. the chapell's up here, not much else.
RIPLEY: Can we get to the ship?
DISTEPHANO: Well, we're a ways out,of the way, but I think we can get through to the garden. From there, it's down a few levels, it's do-able. What if the fucking doctor gets there first?
VRIESS: It's a good point.
DISTEPHANO: They have reached an access door. Debris blocks the way.
RIPLEY: Another way?
DISTEPHANO: Uh, yeah. Through the wall. We'll have to get one of these panels off. It'll take a while. ( to Vriess ) You got tools?
VRIESS: Yeah, but no torch.
JOHNER: Fucking blow the door!
HILLARD: Assface, We're on the top of this thing. ( pointing to the ceiling ) That's hull.
VRIESS: What about Wren? if he gets in the computer he can really fuck us We have to get in too.
RIPLEY: We have to get in too.
DISTEPHANO: There's no access console on this level. We'd have to-backtrack.
HILLARD: Fuck that.
DISTEPHANO: And I don't have the security access that Wren does anyway. Ripley turns to Call.
RIPLEY: No. I can't.
CALL: No. I can't.
CALL: There's another way.
DISTEPHMO: Just tell her to access it on remote.
VRIESS: Shit, that's right. Any of the new model droids can access the Just by blinking.
JOHNER: Just by blinking.
CALL: I can't.
ST JUST: No time to get coy, Annalee.
CALL: I can't. I burned my modem drive. We all did.
VRIESS: You can still patch in manually. You know that. Call looks over at the group, staring at her. She knows she doesn't have a choice.
DISTEPHANO: There's ports in the chapel.
RIPLEY: Come on. ( to the others ) You get started on that wall.
CALL: Don't make me do this.
RIPLEY: Don't make me make you.
CALL: I don't want to go in there.
RIPLEY: Get over it.
CALL: It's like. your insides are liquid. It's not real.
RIPLEY: You can blow the ship. Before it reaches Earth. Kill them all. Just give us time to get out first. That convinces Call. She pulls up her sleeve, and begins. pushes a part of her forearm, just below the crook of her elbow. It has a spring release catch, and a small panel rises up with two computer ports on it. She takes the cable from Ripley and plugs it in. It looks almost like she's mainlining heroin. She cocks her head.
CALL: Hold on. She reaches in her chest, reconnects some tubes. She twitches then shuts her eyes. It's beginning. She begins speaking very rapidly, eyes still shut.
RIPLEY: Hold on. She reaches in her chest, reconnects some tubes. She twitches then shuts her eyes. It's beginning. She begins speaking very rapidly, eyes still shut.
CALL: Hold on. She reaches in her chest, reconnects some tubes. She twitches then shuts her eyes. It's beginning. She begins speaking very rapidly, eyes still shut.
CALL: Breach in sector seven sector three sector nine unstable engines operating at eighty six percent -forty six minutes until earthdock. Her voice has a slight mechanical quality as she rattles this off. Her eyes open.
CALL: We burned too much energy I can't make critical mass. I can't blow Then crash it.
RIPLEY: Then crash it.
CALL: Ground level recalibrated. new destination 760, 403. Done. Forty one minutes until impact.
RIPLEY: Try to clear us a path to the ship.
CALL: Tracking movement in sublevels six through nine. Video is down. Attempted rerouting nonfunctional, wait, partial visual in waste tank 5, unauthorized How many? Please wait.. emergency override on. console 45V, level one. handprint ID. ( like herself ) It's Wren. He's almost at the Betty.
VRIESS: How many? Please wait.. emergency override on. console 45V, level one. handprint ID. ( like herself ) It's Wren. He's almost at the Betty.
CALL: How many? Please wait.. emergency override on. console 45V, level one. handprint ID. ( like herself ) It's Wren. He's almost at the Betty.
RIPLEY: How many? Please wait.. emergency override on. console 45V, level one. handprint ID. ( like herself ) It's Wren. He's almost at the Betty.
RIPLEY: And how do you feel about that?
FATHER: Emergency override validated. The door begins to rise. Looking around him, Wren waits to through. The door grinds to a halt, still too low to climb under. The lights go out, only the faintest glow coming from various instrument panels. wren's expression drains.
WREN: Father, reboot systems on 45V, authorization 'starling'. Nothing happens. Wren looks about him, beginning to sweat. Did the aliens do this?
WREN: Father, locate power drain, report. CALL - ( on the system ) Father's dead, asshole. Wren spins in shock at the sound of Call's voice. it,s everywhere around him. She has downloaded her vocal matrix place of Father's. ( She's not just speaking over a PA, she is the PA. ) The door SLAMS back-down, locks clack into place. The doors behind him open up, emergency lighting pulsing along toward him.
CALL\SHIP: Intruder on level one. all aliens please proceed to level one. Wren is freaking. He turns back down the corridor, looking about him CUT TO: INT. CHAPEL - CONTINUOUS Call pulls the cord out of her port.
RIPLEY: You got a mean strak.
CALL: It's done. That should hold the fuck. This as her voice track slips even more. She works the wires in her cheest, trying to fix it.
RIPLEY: Let me see
CALL: Don't touch me. Ripley backs off.
CALL: You must think this is pretty funny.
RIPLEY: Yes. But I'm finding a lot of things funny lately. And I'm not sure they are.
CALL: Why do you go on living? How can you stand it? How can you stand. Ripley shrugs.
RIPLEY: Not so hard. Not much choice.
CALL: At least there's part of you that's human. I'm just. fuck. Look at She looks at the hole in her chest, the white and sticky fibers.
CALL: I'm disgusting. Her voice is at its slowest here, low and eerie. It's a mechanical problem, but it sounds just like despair.
RIPLEY: Do you dream?
CALL: I . we have neural processors that run through.. ( stops ) Yes.
RIPLEY: When I sleep, I dream about it. Them. Every night. All around me . in me. I used to be afraid to dream, but I'm not anymore.
CALL: Because no matter how bad the dreams get . when I wake up it's always Purvis enters.
RIPLEY: Because no matter how bad the dreams get . when I wake up it's always Purvis enters.
PURVIS: I guess we're almost there.
RIPLEY: He exits again. Call finishes fiddling with her internal wiring. We hear her voice slip back to normal as she says:
CALL: Let's get going.
DISTEPHANO: Not far now.
PURVIS: God, I'm so tired.
JOHNER: Yeah, well, we'll sleep when we're dead. Ripley follows him through.
RIPLEY: Don't count on it. The rest of them come through and walk into:
JOHNER: What's this fucking deal?
DISTEPHMO: This supplies most of the food for the unit. VRIESS ( holding a lucious ripe pear ) You guys got something against spam?
DISTEPHMO: And there's some lab work here too. Hybridization.
RIPLEY: At the other end?
DISTEPHMO: Runs down to the by the waste tanks. We can get to the dock from there. You, okay? Ripley is holding her head. She shuts her eyes.
CALL: What is it? Ripley shakes it off.
RIPLEY: Nothing. I'm okay. She looks out at the jungle, they have to cross.
CALL: We should get moving.
ST JUST: Hey! Check it out! He has come upon a small loading truck, a sort of platform jeep. Vriess checks it out, takes a huge bite of his pear.
VRIESS: Beats walking. He hauls himself up-into it. Everybody piles onto the back flatbed just a foot or so off the ground and just big enough to hold everyone but Vriess, Call and Ripley, who pushes into the driver's seat.
VRIESS: Quickly and quietly, people. Ripley stares unconprehendingly at the controls for a momen till Call flips on the ignition.
RIPLEY: The jeep pulls out. It's electric, so it emits just a low hum as she takes it at a good clip toward the other side. The access paths are just a bit wider than the jeep itself, plants rising tall all around them. Ripley concentrates on driving. The pass through as section of wheat , then of corn. As they come to another section, The crew's expressions change to one of pleased disbelief. You gotta be fucking me. St Just! Is this real?
ST JUST: So this is what heaven looks like. We see they have driven into a healthy section of CANNABIS plants growing ten feet high. The car screeches to a halt. Ripley's at a crossroads of sorts.
RIPLEY: Which way? HILLARD ( looking at the plants ) I always wondered where the military got its funding. An alien SHOOTS out of the brush and lands on Hillard everyone SCREAMS Ripley SLAMS her foot on the pedal The jeep PEELS OUT, as more emerge from the brush.
HILLARD: Get it off MeeeaaaaAAGGHRE!!!! It bores into her head before St Just can blow it away. It's head exploding in fragments of bone and sizzling blood as it falls away from the jeep, Hillard's body still clutched in arms. Another leaps out at them, but the jeep is going a good clip and it The crew peppering it with bullets. They look,about them, guns ready.
RIPLEY: Which way? DISTEPRMO ( looking over ) Left! Left! She swerves left, the jeep-bouncing into the hall
JOHNER: St Just! Come on, man. St Just looks down at the wound. Back at Johner. He walks calmly away, towards the aliens.
CALL: St Just!
ST JUST: You go. He looks at the appraching aliens.
ST JUST: I'm bored.
CALL\SHIP: Warning. Evacuate sector. A moment, then the crew takes off. St Just takes a handful of pills, pops them into his mouth. Only the slightest grin suffuses his face ,as he waits for the aliens. They close on him, and he raises his guns.
CALL\SHIP: CUT TO: INT HALL NEARBY - CONTINUOUS The crew runs full out.
DISTEPHANO: We have to get out of the sector!
RIPLEY: He points at a door that's down two flights and across the hall.
DISTEPHANO: He points at a door that's down two flights and across the hall.
ST JUST: and BOOM!!!!, the hall BURSTS OPEN, everything explodes into space, the wind rushes out as BOOM!!!, the whole garden sector rips open, sucked out, as
CALL\SHIP: and BOOM!!!!, the hall BURSTS OPEN, everything explodes into space, the wind rushes out as BOOM!!!, the whole garden sector rips open, sucked out, as
CALL: Can you walk? RIPLEY I think I.
CALL: I'm not fucking carrying you Ripley doesn't even hear her; something else drowns Call out. Ripley puts her hands over her ears.
RIPLEY: Mistake . mistake.
CALL: I can hear them, in the hive. it's close. We're on the hive.
RIPLEY: I can hear them, in the hive. it's close. We're on the hive.
CALL: Jesus. Come on.
RIPLEY: I can hear them. the queen.
CALL: What. ?
RIPLEY: She's in pain. They CRASH UP through the floor panels, six of them, surrounding the two women. Call can barely spin before Ripley GRABS her and HURLS her fifteen feet down the corridor, out of harm's way. The aliens close on Ripley. She struggles but she's still weak. One slams her onto the ground call recovers, looks back at Ripley As the aliens drag her unconscious body back down under the floor.
CALL: CUT TO: INT. AIR VENT - CONINUOUS Dark, cramped, and already covered with a hardening layer of resin. Skittering, insectile motion at one end heralds the aliens, as two of them crawl rapidly along. The third craw upside down, the semiconscious Ripley draped over its chest If she were awake, and out.vf her mind, she could be kissin the beast. Her eyes flutter open, but she is obviously still groggy.
RIPLEY!: CUT TO: INT. AIR VENT - CONINUOUS Dark, cramped, and already covered with a hardening layer of resin. Skittering, insectile motion at one end heralds the aliens, as two of them crawl rapidly along. The third craw upside down, the semiconscious Ripley draped over its chest If she were awake, and out.vf her mind, she could be kissin the beast. Her eyes flutter open, but she is obviously still groggy.
PURVIS: We got to be moving, miss. Best gift you can give her right now is a quick death.
CALL: It's not right.
PURVIS: I've been saying that all day, we need your help. A moment more, and she heads out with him.
GEDIMAN: Complete asexual reproductive cycle, self-impregnating, we found six different sets of ovaries in her. Egg laying is the first cycle, immature. Redundancies, redundancies . she'll bring forth legion.
RIPLEY: They didn't impregnate you? Now he looks at her, regret and glee at what has happened battling for his expression.
GEDIMAN: No. they've just been draining me. She looks down, to see
RIPLEY: I'm getting out of here. Goddamnit, I'm getting the fuck out of here! He looks at her, the last glimmerof his sanity sinking beyond the Don't you want to see what happens next?
GEDIMAN: Don't you want to see what happens next?
JOHNER: How long till we can get airborn?
VRIESS: I'll need Call to patch in to the ship again, open the hatch.
CALL: We hit atmo in a few minutes, only gonna make it harder. They all run on board
JOHNER: We hit atmo in a few minutes, only gonna make it harder. They all run on board
CALL: Johner, take Purvis to the freezer.
JOHNER: All right.. Nap time, buddy. A GUNSHOT and Purvis goes flying, blood spurting out of his shoulder, Johner draws but Wren emerges from the shadows too fast. Wren grabs Call and very carefully holds his gun to her back right below her shoulderblades.
WREN: Fuck with me and I put a bullet where her brain is! Johner stands, uncertain.
WREN: DiStephano! Take their weapons.
DISTEPHANO: Begging your pardon, sir, but eat my fuck. DiStephano aims at Wren. Wren backs up a step.
WREN: Drop it! Drop it or we all die together! Heaped in the, corner, Purvis suddenly jerks forward. His eyes go CUT TO: INT. WASTE TANK 5 CONTINUOUS Ripley is frantically trying to pull at her bonds. It's just beginning to work. But the noise in here is getting worse, the aliens franitcally agitated as the Queens belly begins moving more violently. SHRIEKS, and RIPLEY does as well, from effort or sympathy, it is hard to tell, as THE QUEENS BELLY POPS OPEN. Blood shoots everywhere, burning into the And all the screaming stops. The movement stops. Even Ripley stops. Something emerges from the wound. An alien, to be sure, but nothing we've seen so far, its forelegs arch out of its back like spiders legs, its back legs set on enormous haunches, thick and powerful. Its head is long, eyeless, like the others, but along its white expanse red veins, coming out of the skin and running like thick black hairs to the back. It has retracted pincers at the side of head that come out when its tongue does. Its much bigger the the others, nearly the size of the queen herself. And it's bone white.
GEDIMAN: Beautiful.. beautiful butterfly. He is crying with revelatory joy. Ripley is not. Grimacing the sight and smell of the new beast, she begins pulling again at her bonds. One of the soldiers, at the 'other end of the room from Ripley wakes Dangling uselessly at his side is a rifle the real deal, not a No, God. He SCREAMS in uncomprehending horror. The newborn stops, tilting its It LEAPS up to the ceiling in a second, quick and effortless as a monstrous flea. Leaps again and lands on the screaming soldier, gripping his sides with its four forelegs as he screams lustily. pincers SWING out and pin either side of his head.. His eyes go wide Its tongue SHOOTS into his throat. Stays there, and we watch it drain the blood from his body. We can see it, see its stomach swell, red tinged, as his body goes blue and slack. His rifle drops into the black pool. Gediman stares, transfixed, and it LANDS ON HIM.
SOLDIER: No, God. He SCREAMS in uncomprehending horror. The newborn stops, tilting its It LEAPS up to the ceiling in a second, quick and effortless as a monstrous flea. Leaps again and lands on the screaming soldier, gripping his sides with its four forelegs as he screams lustily. pincers SWING out and pin either side of his head.. His eyes go wide Its tongue SHOOTS into his throat. Stays there, and we watch it drain the blood from his body. We can see it, see its stomach swell, red tinged, as his body goes blue and slack. His rifle drops into the black pool. Gediman stares, transfixed, and it LANDS ON HIM.
WREN: The fucking robot is going to plug back into the Auriga and land it according to standard operational procedure.
CALL: No she's not.
DISTEPHMO: You're fucking nuts. You still want to bring those things back to Have you been paying any attention today?
JOHNER: Have you been paying any attention today?
WREN: I can handle the animals!
CALL: Fucking shoot me.
WREN: Shut up!!! And Purvis LAUNCHES from the corner, screaming, jumps on wren - Wren gets off a couple of shots nails DiStephano in the face. The soldier drops like a sack. The other shots hit the ship, Call dives for cover as Purvis SLAMS his fist across Wren's face, Wren fires again and Jo is on the ground, rolling, grabbing his gun Purvis is a man possessed. He grabs Wren's gunhand and SMAS it against an instrument panel, bone cracking audibly as wren drops the gun. Purvis jerks. Blood blooms in his chest. Everybody stops, mesmerized. wren drops to his knees, going for the gun, and Purvis grabs him from behind, pulls him so that the back of Wren's head is against his chest. Purvis jerks again. It takes Wren a moment to understand what's They both scream. Then alien BURSTS out of Purvis's chest, STRAIGHT INTO WRENS SKULL. Everyone else is still frozen. Then the little critter bursts out of Wrens face, flying straight at Vriess. CUT TO: INT. WASTE TANK 5 -
CONTINUOUS: Ripley TEARS one of her arms free as the newborn feeds beside her. Gediman is already a shell. Having drained the scientist, it leaps blindingly fast onto the ceiling. Looks around. Targets Ripley. It has no eyes, but she can feel them on her anyway. She rips at her bonds with a terrible effort the newborn LEAPS at her and she PULLS FREE with a scream, PLUNGING the thirty feet to the pool as the alien flies over her, missing, landing on the far wall instead. Ripley disappears beneath the surface of the water. The newborn turns its head, trying to locate its lost prey. other aliens scutter closer to the pool. Ripley stands up out of the pool, covered in blood, HOISTING THE
CALL: Don't shoot it! Betty's hull is too thin!
JOHNER: Look out! it knocks over cannisters as it speeds across the table and behind some instruments. VRIESS Where'd it go?
CALL: Don't shoot it!
JOHNER: Fuck that! It LEAPS out of the darkness and heads straight for Call, she stumbles back, trips it comes at her, leaps right at her face, she pulls her hand back and-flicks her wrist The stilletto pops out as the creatu flies at it, the blade slides right into its mouth, ramming eight inches through its innards before it pokes out the other end. Blood spurts on Call, on the floor. The creature wriggles and finally falls free as the stilletto melts inside it.
JOHNER: Vriess! Get behind the fucking wheel!
RIPLEY: She doesn't bother to try the door, she HURLS herself through the window, landing
RIPLEY: A SLAM against the metal door behind her tells her the aliens are here. She picks herself up and RUNS and she can run fast. Speeds across the platform, faster, faster, the Betty sinks of sight as the airlock doors move closer together, fifteen feet apart, ten. Ripley reaches the edge of the platform and LEAPS, just hurls herself off of the platform, sails through the air, thirty, forty feet, and down, the airlock doors thirty feet below almost closed She DROPS right through just before they close, falls another fifteen feet and lands WHAM!! on top of-the Auriga, hard, rolls, lies there in extremes of pain.
NO!!: A SLAM against the metal door behind her tells her the aliens are here. She picks herself up and RUNS and she can run fast. Speeds across the platform, faster, faster, the Betty sinks of sight as the airlock doors move closer together, fifteen feet apart, ten. Ripley reaches the edge of the platform and LEAPS, just hurls herself off of the platform, sails through the air, thirty, forty feet, and down, the airlock doors thirty feet below almost closed She DROPS right through just before they close, falls another fifteen feet and lands WHAM!! on top of-the Auriga, hard, rolls, lies there in extremes of pain.
VRIESS: Something's on us!
JOHNER: Forget it! we'll shake it off on descent. Airlock secure. Outer doors opening. . CUT TO:
RIPLEY: And above her, through a window into the docking bay, we see the newborn appear.
CALL: Almost there.
JOHNER: We got about forty seconds till we kiss the ground! Go full thrust on the downdraft! We'llget clear!
JOHNER: It's gonna be fucking close.
CALL\SHIP: Warning. Procedural interruption. Ship not leveling for vertical drop. Braking system nonfunctional. Collision imminent.
JOHNER: No shit.
CALL: Almost there.
RIPLEY: NOO!! NOOO! CUT TO: INT. BETRY - CONTINUOUS Vriess punches it
CALL: Vriess punches it
NOW!!!: Vriess punches it
VRIESS: Look out!
CALL: I am!
CALL\SHIP: Collision in six seconds . five. four. ( softly ) Here we go.
CALL: Johner! Fire!
VRIESS: Vector control's fucked! we gotta put down!
CALL: Find me a path! Johner sprays foam on the fire. There is a loud BANGING heard far What the fuck is that?
RIPLEY: She looks around at the alien. It's almost on her. Working its way painfully toward her, gripping with its legs and tendrils. Hissing. It slams a tentacle down at Ripley, but she rolls, just holding on
JOHNER: It's Ripley! Ripley's on the fucking hatch! In the cockpit, Call nearly goes white.
CALL: Let her in!
JOHNER: Fuck no! There's something else out there with her!
VRIESS: One of them. Johner looks at the image, realizes how masive the newborn is. Awed fear creeps into his voice:
JOHNER: No. it's something else. Frustrated, Call jumps out of her seat.. Vriess fights to control the ship as she climbs up toward the hatch.
VRIESS: Goddamnit, Call! Johner grabs her, practically throws her at the monitor.
JOHNER: Look at that fucking thing! We can't open up! They both tumble as the ship jerks
VRIESS: Call! NOW! Call and Ripley head into the cockpit.Johner continues looking at the vidscreen at the beast.
VRIESS: We can't to do a vertical setdown! Braking systems are shot!
CALL: Find me a patch of land! I'll put her down. Call jumps back into the pilot's seat by Vriess. He pulls up hard on the wheel, but the ship is still dangerously close to the ground.
JOHNER: That thing isn't going anywhere!
VRIESS: Johner, strap in! We're coming down hard! ANGLE: -BETTY Approaches the rough, wooded terrain, just above the trees. Hits a relatively clear patch, touches down bounces back up and then down again
JOHNER: That things gone back behind the thrusters! Call and Ripley look at each other.
RIPLEY: Hit it. Call throws on the thrusters, the ship ROCKETS forward ANGLE: THE
NEWBOM: Engulfed in flame, losing its grip
THE BETTY: Going too fast Call can't control it
VRIESS: Kill thrust! Now! Call does.
RIPLEY: is thrown bodily into the windshield
THE BETTY: mows down a half acre of trees before finally grinding to a halt. As soon as they've recovered, Call throws off her seatbelt. CALL Is everbody all right-?
JOHNER: Where're you going? Call opens the hatch.
CALL: To make sure that thing is really dead Its giant face LUNGES down at her, piston tongue shooting out. It has charred black skin in some places that skin has fallen off and wet pink flesh shows through. Call drops to the floor, the tongue just missing her. Johner scrambles for his gun as Ripley drags her out of the way. AS quickly as it came, the head lurches back out.
JOHNER: I think it's gone!
VRIESS: No, it's waiting for us to come out! Can we fly?
VRIESS: We can't fucking crawl!
RIPLEY: It's gone. Call looks at her.
CALL: Are you sure?
JOHNER: Good! Great!
CALL: Call grabs a grenade launcher.
CALL: I've got to stop it.
VRIESS: That thing is thirty minutes old! In a few hours it'll grow up. If it reaches a place with people. She heads for the door but Ripley is on her way. They exchange a look.
CALL: That thing is thirty minutes old! In a few hours it'll grow up. If it reaches a place with people. She heads for the door but Ripley is on her way. They exchange a look.
RIPLEY: You'll never catch it. Call tosses her the grenade launcher.
RIPLEY: No! Over here! Calling out to distract it, she runs, waving her arms.
CALL: Ripley! Let it come! Let it come! Tears run through her voice as she strains for the lever. The beast is torn, and for a moment doesn't move. Ripley looks over to where Call is, and understanding blooms on her She looks around and spots:
CALL: Galvanized by the cry, Ripley TEARS herself out of the beast's dying grasp, flips backwards off the Harvester as it begins to smoke and spark, blood eating through the controls. Call writhes, blood everywhere now. She is lost in primal terror. Ripley wriggles her way under, and, regardless of the streams of blood splattering her, wrenchs Call free. She drags her' out. A section of the harvester explodes, raining fire and debris or the dying alien. Call lies on the ground, Ripley behind her, arms wrapped tight around Covered in blood and grime, the two watch the alien go up in flames, breathing hard, holding each other as if their lives depended on it DISSOLVE TO.- ANGLE: THE NEWBORN'S SKULL Burning, hollowed out by the licks of flame that caress it. Collapsing gently on itself.
RIPLEY!: Galvanized by the cry, Ripley TEARS herself out of the beast's dying grasp, flips backwards off the Harvester as it begins to smoke and spark, blood eating through the controls. Call writhes, blood everywhere now. She is lost in primal terror. Ripley wriggles her way under, and, regardless of the streams of blood splattering her, wrenchs Call free. She drags her' out. A section of the harvester explodes, raining fire and debris or the dying alien. Call lies on the ground, Ripley behind her, arms wrapped tight around Covered in blood and grime, the two watch the alien go up in flames, breathing hard, holding each other as if their lives depended on it DISSOLVE TO.- ANGLE: THE NEWBORN'S SKULL Burning, hollowed out by the licks of flame that caress it. Collapsing gently on itself.
JOHNER: The bitch takes her time in burning.
VRIESS: Well, it looks like she's finally giving it up.
JOHNER: Troopers should be finding our ship any time now. 1 don't much love the idea of being around when they do. Ripley gets up, looks out over the cliffs edge at the lights the city. Christie offers the bottle to Call. She takes it and drinks. VRIESS ( to Call ) I guess you won't want to be answering any official Questions either.
CALL: I guess not. She is grateful for the suggestion that they are in it together.
VRIESS: Well, we're on Earth, for Chrissake. Plenty of places to get lost here.
CALL: So I've heard. After a moment, she gets up as well, goes over to Ripley. She hands her the bottle. Ripley looks at it.
CALL: It's a drink. You drink it. RIPLEY ( smiling ) I remember. She drinks.
CALL: So, what do you think?
RIPLEY: What should we do now?
CALL: What should we do now?
RIPLEY: I don't know. She looks out in the distance. RIPLEY I'm a stranger here myself The two of them stand side by side staring out at the unfamiliar horizon, as the newborn dwindles in the dancing flame.
THE END: Writers : Joss Whedon
