ALIEN NATION: Original Screenplay
CRAIS: That was the scene in California's Mojave Desert three years ago today the historic first view of the Newcomer ship upon its dramatic arrival. As with the assassination of John Kennedy, who among us does not remember exactly where he was that October nineteenth morning, when news first broke: that people have landed. from another star. We PULL BACK from a large television set to reveal.
FEDORCHUK: I remember where I was pissing off my balcony at the neighbor's Others laugh.
ALTEREZ: ( yells at Crais on TV ) Get to the goddamn ball scores! ON THE TV SCREEN, an on-location interview with a CAL-TECH PROFESSOR comes up. Her name and title appear across the bottom of the screen.
CRAIS: These "Newcomers," we soon learned, were a genetically-engineered race, adapted for hard labor in almost any environmental condition. In effect, their ship was a slave ship. washed ashore on Earth with no way to get back to where they came A dishwasher tray filled with beer glasses CUTS ACROSS FRAME, and we PAN WITH IT as it is slammed down on the Now an interview with a FRESNO HOUSEWIFE standing outside a supermarket comes on the TV SCREEN.
FRESNO HOUSEWIFE: When the Newcomers were first let out of the ship, they were quarantined in a camp not ten miles from the town here. You can imagine how the people around here felt about that. But once they were releases from the camp and we got a chance to know them, we saw what nice, quiet people they really are.
WIDER: revealing a MASSIVE ALIEN FIGURE in a filthy white busboy's uniform. His back is to us as he picks up two trays from the counter. The bartender is dwarfed by this Newcomer, but works around him without apparent concern. Fedorchuk addresses the alien busboy.
FEDORCHUK: Hey, Henry, how you doin' tonight? Workin' hard? The Newcomer turns his face is humanoid, but disturbingly alien.
FEDORCHUK: You got your green card, buddy? You didn't leave home without it? The cops at the bar crack up. Henry looks at Fedorchuk his eyes carrying no malice. or pain. He merely blinks.
SYKES: Jeez. they call that gang-bang a A billboard for Pepsi featuring an alien. The sedan has pulled to a stop at a red light. Suddenly a hand thumps against the glass next to Sykes' head. and alien hand. Sykes jumps. It's a NEWCOMER DERELICT standing there, weaving, mumbling in his own language. In one filthy hand holds a quart carton of milk. We know immediately what he wants. Sykes rolls down the window.
SYKES: Take a hike. Sykes gets a whiff of the derelict's breath as the light changes and the sedan pulls away, leaving him in the street. Sykes grimaces at the smell.
SYKES: Why's it have to be sour milk that these guys get wasted on? What the hell's wrong with Jack Daniels, or Thunderbird for chrissakes? Slagtown. Shit. Aliens hanging around outside their homes. Alien hookers plying their trade.
SYKES: Hope their plumbing's the same.
TUGGLE: It is. A Newcomer lowrider pulls up beside the slug-mobile. An alien couple exit a theater playing "Terminator
ANGLE: TITLES END, and we start to PULL BACK into the slug-mobile and HEAR:
SYKES: How can I go?
TUGGLE: Put on your wash-and-wear suit and your clip-on tie, have your landlady tie your shoes for you, and show up at the church. Simple. Me and Carol are going.
SYKES: Hey, look we've known Kristin since. since she was conceived in that cabin up in Big Bear. Remember? You and Edie banged the wall so hard, me and Carol were picking plaster out of our hair for a week.
TUGGLE: Hey, look we've known Kristin since. since she was conceived in that cabin up in Big Bear. Remember? You and Edie banged the wall so hard, me and Carol were picking plaster out of our hair for a week.
SYKES: Goddammit, Tug I want to see Kristin get married, okay? But
TUGGLE: But you're bummed because your ex and her new husband are paying for the whole thing.
SYKES: Shit, if Kristin had to get married where I could afford it, we'd be holding the reception at Buddy's Sykes stares out the window, wallowing in his pissed-off mood. Then he spots something that twinges his street-cop Uh-oh. Check it out. THROUGH THE WINDOW Tuggle sees what Sykes sees: two ALIENS in long coats moving down the sidewalk, entering a mom- and-pop mini-mart on the corner. One of them wears dark glasses and a red bandana ( KIPLING ): the other has on a black vinyl raincoat.
SYKES: Uh-oh. Check it out. THROUGH THE WINDOW Tuggle sees what Sykes sees: two ALIENS in long coats moving down the sidewalk, entering a mom- and-pop mini-mart on the corner. One of them wears dark glasses and a red bandana ( KIPLING ): the other has on a black vinyl raincoat.
SYKES: Does that look at all suspicious to Whatever gave you that idea?
TUGGLE: Whatever gave you that idea?
TUGGLE: This is one-Henry-seven, we've got a possible two-eleven in progress at Porter's Mini-Mart, corner of Court and Alvarado. Requesting backup. Impulsive Sykes is already opening his door and climbing Let's do it, partner. Tuggle drops the radio mike and follows Sykes as the Radio Dispatcher confirms the call.
SYKES: Let's do it, partner. Tuggle drops the radio mike and follows Sykes as the Radio Dispatcher confirms the call.
SYKES: You got your vest?
TUGGLE: Of course. Right in the trunk of the car.
SYKES: Yeah, that's comforting. Mine, too. Through the store window the robbery continues in pantomime. Kipling gestures viciously with the shotgun, yelling orders in the alien language. The Proprietor is quickly filling a paper bag with cash from the register. The PROPRIETOR'S WIFE, a middle-aged alien woman, stands in the doorway from the back, frozen in fear. The Raincoat alien dances from foot to foot, antsy, wired. Sykes and Tuggle crouch at the car directly across the street from the store entrance.
TUGGLE: Watch the driver. I'm going for a better angle on the door.
SYKES: I got him. Don't get pinned. Tuggle leaves the cover provided by the car, runs cater- corner across the intersection. Through the store window Sykes sees Kipling grab the bag of cash, shove it in his coat pocket. Bills fall out, but he doesn't care. Then, without warning, Kipling whips up the twelve gauge and blows a hole in the Proprietor's chest! The Proprietor slams back against the shelves, slides to the floor. Kipling leans over the counter and FIRES another round into the Proprietor.
SYKES: ( under his breath ) Aw, shit. Tuggle is almost across the street when he hears the The human DRIVER of the getaway car ( parked at the curb a few doors down from the mini-mart ) glances up, spots Tuggle. He leans on the HORN, reaches for a machine pistol on the seat next to him.
SYKES: Get outta there!
TUGGLE: I can't! Do you mind!
SYKES: I'll cover you! Get outta there!! Sykes rises and runs across the street toward the getaway car, firing toward the store as he goes. Kipling and Raincoat dodge behind cover. Tuggle seizes the opportunity, jumps from behind the lamp post and runs to the stalled civilian car. He slides across the hood and drops behind the car for cover. Tuggle slowly pokes his head up to peer through the car window. His gaze is met by the face of the OLD MAN driver who is still inside the car.
OLD MAN: Can I get out now?
TUGGLE: Move it! Sykes doesn't have a clear firing line on the aliens in the store. As he considers his next move Tuggle fires at the two aliens. They return fire and he slides down to safety behind the car. Or so he thinks. Glass rains down on him as the car windows are cremated by the shotgun blasts. He flinches as another blast hits the car. He looks over. There's a big exit hole in the fender beside him. THE SHOT WENT RIGHT THROUGH THE CAR. Another exit hole is BLASTED, inches from his shoulder. Panicked, he scrambles along the side of the car BLASTS and exit holes following him until he reaches the front of the car. He has nowhere left to go and a BLAST comes through the car and catches him squarely in the chest throwing him back onto the street. Sykes' head jerks around in time to see his partner of nine years blown away. Kipling keeps firing in Tuggle's direction until his shotgun CLICKS empty.
SYKES: Aw shit, Tug, Jesus! Goddamn it! He stares, shocked and incredulous. He can't find a way to think or feel about this. Then we see him going crazy right before our eyes, the rage revving. He takes off toward the store as SIRENS are HEARD rapidly approaching in background.
ANGLE: The alien rears back, and as he does, the approaching SIREN suddenly WAILS louder as a backup patrol car swings onto the street heading this way. Kipling sees this and leaves Sykes, running off down the dark tunnel.
ON SYKES: dazed, struggling to rise. WE HEAR running FOOTSTEPS approaching. Sykes turns, his eyes wild and unfocused.
ANGLE: Sykes whips around in a roundhouse swing with all his weight on it, pistoning his fist straight into the alien face. The alien, caught by surprise and off balance, sprawls backward OUT OF FRAME. Sykes is grabbed by a human uniformed cop, as he tries to swing again.
HUMAN COP: Whoa, whoa. hold it. Take it easy. You okay? Sykes stops struggling, and his eyes focus. He looks at the alien he just decked, sprawled on his ass ten feet away. The alien is a uniformed cop. his name is JETSON.
JETSON: I am all right. He gets up. A trickle of purple blood runs from his nose.
HUMAN COP: I better call in. He moves off. Jetson moves toward Sykes and the Raincoat alien's body. Sykes tenses, thinking Jetson might retaliate in some way. But Jetson simply steps past him to kneel beside the dead alien. He checks for a pulse on the underside of the dead alien's upper arm. Nothing. Sykes is holding his punching hand in obvious pain. He struggles to rise. Jetson gets an arm around him to help him up.
JETSON: Your hand will require attention. Sykes roughly jerks himself free of Jetson's grip.
SYKES: Get the hell away from me! I don't need your goddamn help. He almost loses his balance and has to steady himself against the tunnel wall. Sykes leans there, the picture of impotent rage and frustration. Jetson looks at him, with that slight inquisitive expression aliens exhibit when trying to understand human nature.
NATUZZI: Looks like a standard combat pump- It is.
MINKLER: It is.
NATUZZI: So what punched holes clear through that car out there? Minkler pulls an evidence baggie from his work box. Inside are four unfired twelve gauge shells.
MINKLER: BRI Sabot slugs. These puppies are nasty. Two plastic sabots fall away in flight leaving a fifty-caliber slug going two thousand feet per second. Tug might as well've been hiding behind a rosebush. Minkler senses somebody has just stepped up beside him. He looks. It's Sykes.
NATUZZI: Pretty heavy artillery for knocking over a liquor store. A new voice enters the conversation.
MINKLER: Yeah? So why the extra fire power?
JETSON: Perhaps because even the larger caliber handguns aren't always effective against my people.
SYKES: ( mulls this, then ) You saying there's some connection to this other homicide? Before Jetson can say, the female cop who was talking to the Proprietor's Wife steps up.
FEMALE COP: Hey, give me a hand with this woman, will ya Jetson? We've got to get her to Division for her statement and she won't budge.
JETSON: ( to Sykes ) Excuse me. And he moves off with his partner. Sykes calls after him, but Jetson is already approaching the woman and doesn't So, you think there's a connection, or what? Hey!
SYKES: So, you think there's a connection, or what? Hey!
KRISTIN'S VOICE: ( bouncy, bride-to-be Hi, Daddy, it's me. I'm over at Danny's parents' house. talking about Sunday. I thought maybe you'd be home by now. Anyway, uh, nothing really. I just wanted to call and say I love you. I love you, Daddy. ( she giggles ) Uh-oh, I shouldn't'a done that. Knowing you, you'll probably pull this tape out of your machine and save it in that drawer where you keep every card I ever gave you, and all of my old baby teeth. gross! Anyway, Daddy, don't save this tape but I do love you, and I'll talk to you before Sunday. ( beat ) Oh, Tug and Carol came by and met Danny last week. ( Sykes stiffens ) Danny thought Tug was the greatest but, then, who doesn't? Anyway, love you, talk to you soon. 'Bye. The machine BEEPS and HISSES. Sykes take the glass and the bottle of vodka, crosses back toward the living room, switching off the answering machine as he goes. Then he stops, turns back, takes the message tape out of the machine and tosses it into a drawer.
SYKES: So what've you got on Tuggle's Jesus, Sykes it's been less than ten hours. Me and Alterez are on it, okay?
FEDORCHUK: Jesus, Sykes it's been less than ten hours. Me and Alterez are on it, okay?
SYKES: You don't have squat.
FEDORCHUK: You ever try to make a case in Slagtown? The list of Newcomer informants is about as long as the list of Mexican war heroes.
ALTEREZ: Up yours.
FEDORCHUK: . Nobody talks to nobody down there. Half of them don't speak English and the other half only when it suits them. It's gonna take some Yeah, I know it's gonna take time. Like until the Ice Capades opens in Hell, with you two on it. Across the room, the Captain's door BANGS open and CAPTAIN WARNER pounds out, his deep voice booming through the squad room.
SYKES: Yeah, I know it's gonna take time. Like until the Ice Capades opens in Hell, with you two on it. Across the room, the Captain's door BANGS open and CAPTAIN WARNER pounds out, his deep voice booming through the squad room.
WARNER: Nobody wanders off! I got an announcement. Get your asses back in here. Two detectives on their way out, stop, and head back into the room. Everybody gathers around, curious, as Warner stands holding a sheet of paper.
WARNER: I'll make this short. This is a directive from Chief Evaner, who is acting on orders from the Mayor, who is under mandate from the Federal Bureau of Newcomer Relations. As of nine o'clock this morning, one Newcomer uniform officer has been promoted to the rank of Detective, third grade. The detectives GROAN. some angrier ones grumble, "This is bullshit!", etc.
WARNER: And we've got him, gentleman. Volunteers for duty with the new detective should see me in my office. otherwise I will choose a volunteer myself. That is all. He turns and heads back to his office in the wake of continued grumbling from the detectives. Sykes, standing to one side, absently watches Warner return to his glass- walled office. Waiting inside are a balding man and an alien in a grey suit. Sykes reacts. The alien in the suit is Jetson. The grumbling continues around him as Sykes considers Unbelievable bullshit.
FEDORCHUK: Unbelievable bullshit.
ALTEREZ: How long has this Slag been on the force? A year, max right?
DETECTIVE: I don't know about the rest of you, but I sure as hell ain't gonna sit still for this. I'm calling the union, pronto. Others grumble. "Yeah!". Meanwhile, Sykes has decided something. He heads toward Warner's office. Fedorchuk sees this.
FEDORCHUK: Where the hell is he going?
WARNER: Yeah, Sykes?
SYKES: Captain. I'd like to volunteer for duty with the new detective. Warner is surprised. He never expected Sykes.
WARNER: . All right. Detective Sergeant Sykes, this is Detective. Jetson.
JETSON: We have met. Warner looks up, clocking this. He looks at Sykes, starting to smell something fishy. The balding man, GOLDRUP, rises to shake their hands.
GOLDRUP: Victor Goldrup, Mayor's office. Congratulations, gentlemen. Warner is starting to suspect what Sykes is up to.
WARNER: ( to Sykes ) You are to have nothing to do with the investigation into Bill Tuggle's death. You know that. Leave that for Fedorchuk.
SYKES: ( nodding ) Departmental policy.
WARNER: ( to Jetson ) Yes, sir.
JETSON: Yes, sir.
WARNER: There's another case I'd like to take. A homicide a Newcomer named Hubley. Jetson looks over at Sykes, knows he's up to something. Sykes avoids his look.
SYKES: There's another case I'd like to take. A homicide a Newcomer named Hubley. Jetson looks over at Sykes, knows he's up to something. Sykes avoids his look.
WARNER: Granger and Pitts are already on it.
SYKES: Granger and Pitts have one hell of a caseload. and I would have thought with Jetson here being the first Newcomer plainclothes, and Hubley's body being found over in the Newcomer community.
WARNER: Don't tell me what to think.
GOLDRUP: He's got a point. That's the sort of thing we should be doing with this early advancement program. Long-suffering Warner looks up at Goldrup, then finally sighs with resignation. Sykes grins.
SYKES: . and we work my hours. I'll do the driving, you do the paperwork. You gotta learn it so you might as well do it all.
JETSON: ( after a moment ) Sergeant. I'd like to thank you for what you're doing.
SYKES: What's that? Look, Jetson. Get this straight in your head. We're not pals, we're not married, and we ain't gonna take long moonlight walks together. We're just partners. And don't call me Sergeant. Call me Sykes. or Matt if you have to.
JETSON: I am George. Sykes nods absently, and they walk on. four and a half steps to be exact. Then it hits Sykes. He seizes up Wait a minute. George? George Jetson nods. he's used to this. Sykes cracks up.
SYKES: Wait a minute. George? George Jetson nods. he's used to this. Sykes cracks up.
SYKES: ( between laughs ) Man, somebody really hung one on you! I've heard some good ones for you guys. Humphrey Bogart, Harley Davidson. I guess the people at immigration got a little punchy after a while, coming up with names for a quarter of a million of you. You weren't at the back of the line, were you, George?
JETSON: My true name is Ss'tangya Gesundheit. You don't mind if I stick to George, do you?
SYKES: Gesundheit. You don't mind if I stick to George, do you?
SYKES: Anyway, what's it matter to you if we think it's funny, right? Whatta you care?
JETSON: That is exactly so. It is like your name. Sykes. I'm sure it doesn't bother you at all that it sounds like "ss'ai k'ss", two words in my language which mean "excrement" and "cranium". Sykes looks at him, perplexed.
JETSON: "Shit. head". Jetson gets in and slams the door, leaving Sykes standing there, the smirk dropping from his face.
SYKES: Let's talk Hubley.
JETSON: ( refers to a folder His body was discovered three days ago, in an alley off of Central Avenue, near downtown.
SYKES: With two BRI Sabot slugs in the Through the chest. Rupturing both the primary and secondary hearts.
JETSON: ( gently correcting Through the chest. Rupturing both the primary and secondary hearts.
SYKES: ( out the window ) Nice signal, dickwad! Jetson is momentarily thrown by this outburst from Sykes. He was employed at the Northwest Petroleum Refinery in Torrance. He was manager of the Methane Facility. He was also a principle partner in a real estate venture to develop low- cost housing for Newcomers. Sykes grimaces at the mention of "Newcomer housing".
JETSON: He was employed at the Northwest Petroleum Refinery in Torrance. He was manager of the Methane Facility. He was also a principle partner in a real estate venture to develop low- cost housing for Newcomers. Sykes grimaces at the mention of "Newcomer housing".
SYKES: Terrific. A real pillar of the Was Hubley missing anything when they found him? Was he ripped off?
JETSON: ( checks file ) There was no wallet. but he was still wearing a watch and two rings.
SYKES: The guys at the mini-mart last night made a half-assed stab at the money in the till but I don't think that's what they were there for. I think we got us a couple'a executions on our hands, George.
JETSON: The murder at the mini-mart is not our case. The Captain said Sykes looks over at Jetson, pissed.
SYKES: Look, you want to fit in here, right? You want to learn how to get Well, there's a thing about partners, about being somebody's partner. You do for each other. And other people's rules don't mean shit. It's the rules set up between the two of you, that's all that counts. Understand? Okay. Well, my friend and partner was shot last night and I'm after the shitbag that did it. As my partner, I'm asking you to respect me and help me find him. Jetson considers this several moments, then
JETSON: Well, there's a thing about partners, about being somebody's partner. You do for each other. And other people's rules don't mean shit. It's the rules set up between the two of you, that's all that counts. Understand? Okay. Well, my friend and partner was shot last night and I'm after the shitbag that did it. As my partner, I'm asking you to respect me and help me find him. Jetson considers this several moments, then
SYKES: Well, there's a thing about partners, about being somebody's partner. You do for each other. And other people's rules don't mean shit. It's the rules set up between the two of you, that's all that counts. Understand? Okay. Well, my friend and partner was shot last night and I'm after the shitbag that did it. As my partner, I'm asking you to respect me and help me find him. Jetson considers this several moments, then
JETSON: And as my partner, I ask you to respect me and my desire not to break with procedure. Sykes stares at him, exasperated. Without warning, he slams the car to a stop right in the middle of heavy traffic, puts it in "Park." Jetson, who is already a little too close to the dashboard, bangs up against it. HORNS instantly go crazy behind them.
JETSON: What is wrong?
SYKES: ( very calm ) Nothing's wrong. I just want to get something straight. You agree that there's a good chance these two shootings are somehow related, YELLING joins the HORNS outside. Jetson is visibly unsettled by the chaos.
JETSON: Well. yes, quite possibly.
SYKES: Possibly. Good. Well, would you be willing to accept the theory, George, that. possibly. by examining the evidence from one case we might shed some small ray of light on the other? Does that sound unreasonable to you?
JETSON: Yes. no, it is not unreasonable. Although I
SYKES: ( a relieved sigh ) Well, I'm sure glad that's settled, aren't you? And with that he puts the car in gear and pulls rapidly I think we're really starting to click now, George hmmm? Jetson doesn't know what to think he just holds on.
SYKES: I think we're really starting to click now, George hmmm? Jetson doesn't know what to think he just holds on.
WINTER: You know I've been over all this with Fedorchuk and Alterez this Come on. You got nothin' better to do, cushy county job like yours.
SYKES: Come on. You got nothin' better to do, cushy county job like yours.
WINTER: Yeah, right. Don't push your luck. Anyway, according to the sheet, the guy you nailed outside by the car
SYKES: The human?
WINTER: Yeah. he was one Martin Helder. White male, twenty-seven. Let's see. wrap sheet shows one armed robbery conviction, a couple for sale of a controlled substance. Oh yeah, and he was wired on coke when you stopped his clock. They have reached a table holding a covered body. Winter unceremoniously throws back the cover. There lies the pale naked body of the Raincoat alien.
JETSON: Have you identified this one?
WINTER: So far he's a John Doe. Or a Sam Slag, if you like. Jetson smiles slightly out of politeness.
WINTER: No I.D. on him and well, you know, no fingerprints so it could be tough. Your buddies this morning went through the mug book but couldn't make a facial match.
SYKES: Fedorchuk couldn't find his ass with his hands in his back pockets. Jetson nonchalantly looks over the alien body while Winter and Sykes continue talking off to one side.
WINTER: ( referring to You took this gut out, too, didn't Lucky for you, you got him in both of his. well, what we loosely refer to as. hearts.
SYKES: Lucky for you, you got him in both of his. well, what we loosely refer to as. hearts.
WINTER: Lucky for you, you got him in both of his. well, what we loosely refer to as. hearts.
SYKES: Lucky nothing. I had to empty my damn gun into him.
WINTER: That's the way these people are. You don't hit both pumps you just piss them off. During this, Jetson has turned the dead alien's hand over sees something that brings a frown of curiosity to his face. He leans closer, examining the palm carefully. Then he peels back the alien's upper lip. Jetson frowns anew, with concern this time. He looks around, spots a Newcomer lab assistant nearby BENTNER. Jetson motions him over. Jetson begins questioning him using the alien language. Sykes and Winter nearby, remain Oh, here's an extra headshot if you need one. We're just about to start cutting in. You're welcome to stick around if you want. It's really fascinating stuff.
WINTER: Oh, here's an extra headshot if you need one. We're just about to start cutting in. You're welcome to stick around if you want. It's really fascinating stuff.
SYKES: Yeah, I'll bet. Sykes looks over, now noticing Jetson and Bentner in earnest conversation. He only catches snatches of the alien language. Bentner appears very unsettled by what Jetson is telling him. In response to Jetson's final statement, Bentner nods as if agreeing to do something Jetson has requested. Sykes goes over to Jetson.
SYKES: What's this? What's going on?
JETSON: ( really suspicious ( looking away ) Shouldn't we examine their personal Jetson moves off, leaving Sykes there wondering.
SYKES: ( really suspicious ( looking away ) Shouldn't we examine their personal Jetson moves off, leaving Sykes there wondering.
JETSON: ( looking away ) Shouldn't we examine their personal Jetson moves off, leaving Sykes there wondering.
JETSON: What is this?
SYKES: ( looks, then ) A rubber. A condom. You know. Coney Island whitefish? ( Jetson doesn't know Men, human men, put them on their, uh penises to protect against having babies. ( Jetson still doesn't You need this for anything?
ORTIZ: Nope, got my own. Anything you guys don't use gets stuffed away in Sykes tears open the packet, unrolls the condom, dangles it before Jetson.
SYKES: Get the picture?
JETSON: ( frowning ) And that fits?
SYKES: Well. Yeah, it's rubber. It And still it fits? Sykes looks at Jetson's serious expression. He tosses the condom and packet back into the counter and continues searching. A beat, then he can't stop himself he steals a glance at Jetson's crotch. Still searching, Sykes picks up one of the dead alien's well-worn heavy work boots. He grimaces. the sides and soles are painted with a viscous black substance. He very tentatively sniffs it. and is grateful that it's not what he thought it might be.
JETSON: And still it fits? Sykes looks at Jetson's serious expression. He tosses the condom and packet back into the counter and continues searching. A beat, then he can't stop himself he steals a glance at Jetson's crotch. Still searching, Sykes picks up one of the dead alien's well-worn heavy work boots. He grimaces. the sides and soles are painted with a viscous black substance. He very tentatively sniffs it. and is grateful that it's not what he thought it might be.
SYKES: What is this stuff? Sykes gets some on his hands, doesn't know where to wipe it. Jetson glances over.
JETSON: It is a resin. Sykes looks at him. surprised that he knows.
JETSON: ( continuing ) Newcomers working near methane gasses at oil refineries must paint it on their boots to protect against How the hell do you know that?
SYKES: How the hell do you know that?
JETSON: A large number of my people were hired by refineries because the methane fumes are not harmful to us. My spouse's brother is one.
SYKES: So the Slag they're cutting into upstairs worked at a refinery just like Hubley worked at a refinery. I'd say that "possible" connection between the two cases just got a hell of a lot more possible. Okay, next step I gotta go talk to the wife of the Slag store owner blown away last night.
JETSON: I believe I should interview the widow alone.
SYKES: Why the hell?! Great, fine. You talk to the wife.
O'NEAL: ( yelling over the Mr. Hubley was an all right guy and a damn good manager. The men liked him. I'm really gonna have to scramble to fill his shoes.
SYKES: Well, one of the men didn't like him so much. They stop and Sykes hands O'Neal the polariod photo of Raincoat alien. They have stopped near the heavy refrigeration-type door leading to the "METHANE SECTION". Newcomer workers move in and out through the door during:
O'NEAL: ( looking at photo ) You think this is the guy who did We think he could'a been involved, yeah. You know him?
SYKES: We think he could'a been involved, yeah. You know him?
O'NEAL: To be honest, it's hard to say. I hate to admit it but they all still kinda look alike to me.
SYKES: ( impatient ) Who else can I ask around here?
O'NEAL: ( looking at photo Wait. You know who it looks like? Yeah. Anderson. Uh. James Anderson. He isn't in today. He took the afternoon off.
SYKES: I think you're gonna find he's taken the rest of his life off. O'Neal reacts. Sykes notices the door to the Methane That where Anderson worked?
SYKES: That where Anderson worked?
O'NEAL: Yes it is. Thirty-five percent pure Methane gas in there. I don't know how these fellas do it. Sykes watches two more alien workers pass back through the door. O'Neal watches Sykes' expression for signs of HIGH ANGLE SHOT - SYKES AND O'NEAL We see Sykes hand O'Neal a card, then move off. O'Neal watches him briefly, then crosses to some steps and starts up this way. We PAN with him as he enters a door here on the second INT. METHANE SECTION CONTROL ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON O'Neal enters, moves to a telephone, begins to dial. Beyond is a glass wall overlooking the Methane Section.
SYKES: Jesus. Welcome back Ozzie and He HONKS the horn. Jetson looks up, then moves to his wife and kisses her goodbye. Moves to his son, kisses him on the top of his head. Sykes watches all this. and as he does, slowly his derisive expression softens. As corny as this tableau may be, there's something very appealing about the innocence of it. even to an unrepentant cynic like Sykes. Jetson starts to climb into the car, and we
JETSON: Mrs. Porter is not taking her husband's death well.
SYKES: ( impatient ) Did you learn anything?
JETSON: A week ago two men came to see her husband. After they left, he was very frightened. She identified one of the men from a photo I showed her. It was Hubley.
SYKES: Aw-right. What about the other guy?
JETSON: She didn't know him. But she said her son might.
SYKES: Did you talk to him?
JETSON: He has not been home since that day. But she told me where to find him. Sykes nods.
MAYOR: . Our guest speaker tonight has done so much in his community and for his community in such a short period of time. And I must say, as the founder of the first Newcomer owned and operated corporation in Southern California, he certainly has come quite far in the last few years. Granted, not as far as he came in the years before reaching Los Angeles. There is laughter from the VIPs. Kipling slides into a seat at one of the front tables. He leans over and whispers something into the ear of the person seated to his right. We see this CLOSE UP, and don't see who he is whispering to yet. Whoever it is, nods.
MAYOR: ( continuing ) As Mayor of this city, it gives me great pleasure to introduce someone who has so readily made our city his home. and all of us who live here, his friends. Ladies and gentlemen, William Harcourt. The VIPs applaud as the spotlight sweeps over to a front table. At first it hits Kipling, then it adjusts to capture WILLIAM HARCOURT, seated to Kipling's right. Harcourt is an exemplar of the successful Newcomer entrepreneur. handsome, charming, with cool blue eyes that glint with his piercing intellect. He rises, smiling warmly, steps past his striking ALIEN DATE seated to his right, to make his way to the podium. He shields his eyes somewhat from the bright spotlight. Once behind the podium, he slips his notes from a breast pocket as the applause ebbs.
HARCOURT: Thank you all for that very warm I'm particularly grateful because I actually had the gall to write that in my notes: "Thank you all for that very warm reception". Imagine how embarrassed I would've been if it hadn't have been such a warm The VIPs laugh. He's won them over instantly with his charm and candor.
SYKES: William Harcourt?
HARCOURT: I'm Sergeant Sykes, and this is Detective Jetson, Los Angeles Police Sergeant. Detective. I wasn't aware there were any Newcomers at the rank of Detective yet.
SYKES: I'm Sergeant Sykes, and this is Detective Jetson, Los Angeles Police Sergeant. Detective. I wasn't aware there were any Newcomers at the rank of Detective yet.
HARCOURT: ( nodding greeting ) Sergeant. Detective. I wasn't aware there were any Newcomers at the rank of Detective yet.
JETSON: I am the first.
HARCOURT: Congratulations. This is my administrative assistant, Rudyard Rudyard Kipling? No shit? Listen, we just need a minute of your time.
SYKES: ( throw away ) Rudyard Kipling? No shit? ( to Harcourt ) Listen, we just need a minute of your time.
JETSON: We'd like to ask you about a business associate of your, Warren Yes, I heard about poor Warren. You were partners with him on some Slag uh, Newcomer real estate That's right. He and I, along with seven or eight others. Listen, gentlemen, I will be happy to assist you in any way I can unfortunately, at the moment, I'm overdue at another function. Suddenly there's a voice from O.S.:
HARCOURT: Yes, I heard about poor Warren. You were partners with him on some Slag uh, Newcomer real estate That's right. He and I, along with seven or eight others. Listen, gentlemen, I will be happy to assist you in any way I can unfortunately, at the moment, I'm overdue at another function. Suddenly there's a voice from O.S.:
SYKES: You were partners with him on some Slag uh, Newcomer real estate That's right. He and I, along with seven or eight others. Listen, gentlemen, I will be happy to assist you in any way I can unfortunately, at the moment, I'm overdue at another function. Suddenly there's a voice from O.S.:
HARCOURT: That's right. He and I, along with seven or eight others. Listen, gentlemen, I will be happy to assist you in any way I can unfortunately, at the moment, I'm overdue at another function. Suddenly there's a voice from O.S.:
HARCOURT: Mr. Mayor.
MAYOR: William, I was wondering if you wouldn't rather ride with Luisa and me. Two limousines trying to make it across town in all this traffic, we're bound to be later than we already are.
HARCOURT: Excellent idea. Ray, I wonder if you know two of your police officers. Detective Jetson and A pleasure. We really should be going. The wind is knocked from Sykes' sails by the presence of the Mayor with a very impatient expression. Harcourt Please feel free to call my office Monday morning for an appointment. Congratulations again on your promotion, Detective. Remember. you're out there setting an example in our community. I'll be keeping an eye on you. Harcourt is smiling as he says this last, but his eyes are penetrating. telegraphing a subliminal warning. Harcourt and entourage move off. leaving Sykes steaming.
MAYOR: ( shaking their hands, A pleasure. ( to Harcourt ) We really should be going. The wind is knocked from Sykes' sails by the presence of the Mayor with a very impatient expression. Harcourt ( continuing ) Please feel free to call my office Monday morning for an appointment. ( to Jetson ) Congratulations again on your promotion, Detective. Remember. you're out there setting an example in our community. I'll be keeping an eye on you. Harcourt is smiling as he says this last, but his eyes are penetrating. telegraphing a subliminal warning. Harcourt and entourage move off. leaving Sykes steaming.
HARCOURT: ( continuing ) Please feel free to call my office Monday morning for an appointment. ( to Jetson ) Congratulations again on your promotion, Detective. Remember. you're out there setting an example in our community. I'll be keeping an eye on you. Harcourt is smiling as he says this last, but his eyes are penetrating. telegraphing a subliminal warning. Harcourt and entourage move off. leaving Sykes steaming.
KIPLING: That cop, the human, he was the one who killed Anderson and the driver.
HARCOURT: This is becoming a serious breach of He didn't recognize me.
KIPLING: He didn't recognize me.
HARCOURT: It is his new partner that I'm worried about.
SYKES: Go on ahead. I'll be right in. What'd you dig up for me? Maffet slides open a drawer, takes out a paper bag containing a massive pistol with an enormous bore. By his manner this deal is definitely not kosher. Sykes hefts the weapon.
MAFFET: You said you wanted the biggest thing I could find. Well, this is What is it?
SYKES: What is it?
MAFFET: Casull .454 Magnum. You're talking twice the impact energy of .44 Magnum hot loads.
SYKES: ( flips open cylinder ) Only holds five.
MAFFET: Yeah, the shells are too big for six in an cylinder. Hell, Matt, you don't need but one.
SYKES: ( sighting ) No. two.
SYKES: Well, let's see what you got, Cochise. Gimme six, rapid fire. Jetson, a little nervous at this command performance, turns, sets, and FIRES at the silhouette target. It's a large, sloppy grouping.
SYKES: ( continuing ) How long you been shooting? That's pitiful. Whattya gonna do if somebody draws down on you, wave your scores on the written exam at Sykes starts loading the thumb-sized bullets into the Why did you do it?
JETSON: Why did you do it?
SYKES: Why'd I do what?
JETSON: Agree to work with me? You don't like me. you don't like any of us. You have nothing but contempt for us. And yet you become an outcast from your club of detectives by making me your partner.
SYKES: My partner is dead! Because one of you bastards killed him then disappeared into a rathole down in Slagtown, where he's home and dry, 'cause nobody sees nothing, nobody says nothing. Sykes grabs a bullet-proof vest from nearby, slaps it onto the hanging target form. He hits the switch, running the target down to the end of the lane.
SYKES: ( continuing ) But he didn't figure on you, George. You're going to get me through that wall of silence. You're going to make them talk to me. You're going to help me find that Slag son-of-a- bitch. Comprendo? And if Fedorchuk and the boys in the bullpen don't like it, screw them. and if the Captain doesn't like it, screw him. and if all the Slags down in Slagtown don't like it. well screw them too! Sykes raises the Casull, fires. KA-BOOM!!! The shell rockets clean through the bullet-proof vest on the target form. The recoil slams Sykes back, jerks his arm up. KA- BOOM!!! again, and another hole is drilled through the vest. Other shooters look over. Sykes sets the gun down. sees his hand is bleeding. Jetson absorbs all this, as we
SYKES: ( to Jetson ) Okay, just stay back and do what I do. Watch and learn, watch and INT. "X" BAR - NIGHT Sykes and Jetson walk into the almost total blackness of this all-Newcomer place. A few near-infrared indigo lamps dot the blackness.
SYKES: I can't see dick in here. We can dimly make out booths along one wall, some tables, and the bar. There are maybe twenty figures seated or standing in the darkness. The room falls silent in a wave as Sykes' presence becomes noticed. Sykes saunters forward, commanding the space with his unhurried movements.
SYKES: ( calling into the Which one'a you Slags is Porter?
VOICE: ( from the back of Who wants to know? Sykes squints into the darkness, then
SYKES: ( aside to Jetson ) Who said that?
JETSON: ( tilts his head to At the end of the bar. Sykes nods, starts in that direction.
SYKES: My name is Sykes. I'm
ALIEN VOICE: Ss'ai k'ss? The whole place roars with LAUGHTER. Too late Sykes remembers what his name sounds like to them. He continues down the bar and a figure in one of the booths sticks his leg out and trips Sykes with his size 16 work boot. Sykes stumbles, then recovers and pivots on the offender. Hoots and derisive LAUGHTER. He sees only shadows.
OFFENDER: ( merely a voice in Careful, ss'loka', you might hurt More laughter. Sykes gives the darkness where the offender sits a hard stare, then turns and shoulders his way to the end of the bar. Jetson follows. Sykes stops behind a big Newcomer in greasy work clothes.
ANGLE: The punk Newcomer in the next seat is keeping his head down, trying to be inconspicuous. He glances over at the two cops. his expression shifting to recognition as he spots Jetson.
SYKES: You Porter? The Big Newcomer continues to sip his mug of sour milk. Doesn't turn. Sykes grabs him by the shoulder and turns him around. The alien grabs Sykes' hand off, rising to his full height. He and Sykes lock eyes. Meanwhile. the punk Newcomer ( PORTER ) has started to slip away unnoticed. Jetson spots him, reaches out with one arm, and grabs him by the jacket.
JETSON: No, Matthew. I believe this is the one you want. He pulls Porter back into play. Now Jetson sees Porter's face. and he, too, reacts with recognition. Sykes gives Jetson a sour look, releases the Big Newcomer, and turns his malice on the punk Newcomer.
SYKES: Your name wouldn't happen to be Porter, would it?
JETSON: Uh, Matthew.
SYKES: ( over his shoulder Back off, George.
JETSON: But I ( know this man ).
SYKES: I'll handle it. Jetson backs off, letting him handle it.
SYKES: ( to Porter ) Jesus, are the questions too tough for you already? Let's try again ( slowly ) Is your name Porter?
PORTER: ( to Jetson ) What's that?
SYKES: ( to Jetson ) What's that?
JETSON: Screw you.
SYKES: ( back to Porter ) Screw me? That can't be right.
PORTER: Ss'kya ta' ss'loka'. Ss'trokya' ss'lato na'!
JETSON: ( to Sykes, low ) You don't want to know.
SYKES: Tell me.
JETSON: Your mother mates out of season.
SYKES: ( to Porter ) That's very colorful. But see now I've got a problem. I don't seem to be getting much cooperation from you, Porter. So I guess we're gonna have to take this little session down to my office, ya And instantly Sykes whips out this flashlight, snaps on the beam, and arcs it into the faces of the aliens around him. Jetson gets a blast of it, too. The aliens are momentarily blinded. Sykes has Porter pinned to the bar, the flashlight in his face, as he starts to handcuff him. But Porter gets a hand free and crushes the head of the flashlight. Darkness falls. along with Sykes' expression of Porter hurls Sykes back, slamming him into a table. The crowd HOOTS and CHEERS. Sykes finds his way to his feet.
JETSON: Matthew, you don't have to ( do this ).
SYKES: Stay back! I'm okay. He charges Porter, brandishing the flashlight like a club. The two of them battle, then Sykes sees his opportunity and brings his knee up viciously into the alien's groin. Porter doubles over in feigned agony, then slowly rises again smiling.
PORTER: Don't they teach you anything about us in cop school, little ss'loka'? Porter grabs Sykes by the shirt front, is about to deliver a crushing blow, when another arm cuts into FRAME, locking with Porter's, blocking the punch. It is Jetson.
JETSON: ( eyeing Jetson ) Ss'tangya T'ssorentsa'. You're a ( with some contempt ) It fits you. Jetson says something to him in the alien language. Porter gives him a hard stare, then moves toward the back exit. Sykes stumbles over to Jetson.
PORTER: ( eyeing Jetson ) Ss'tangya T'ssorentsa'. You're a ( with some contempt ) It fits you. Jetson says something to him in the alien language. Porter gives him a hard stare, then moves toward the back exit. Sykes stumbles over to Jetson.
SYKES: You know that guy?
JETSON: ( nods ) From quarantine, when my people first arrived here. He and I were housed together.
SYKES: How could a straight-arrow like you ever pick a roommate like him?
JETSON: In the camps, we were lodged four to a room. The selection process was entirely random. We did not get to stay with our friends. or And he moves toward the back exit. Sykes watches him go.
JETSON: You don't know what your father and these two men were arguing about?
PORTER: I told you I was in the back of the store. I just heard voices, muffled like.
SYKES: One of the two men was Hubley, right? What about the other one? Did you know him?
PORTER: Yeah. I seen him around. High- roller dude named Strader. Joshua Strader. Runs a club on the west side. Encounters.
SYKES: Yeah, I heard of it.
PORTER: That's all I know. You want anything more, you ask somebody He pushes away from the wall, heads for the door to the I am sorry about your father. Porter throws him a look over his shoulder, then disappears through the door. Sykes and Jetson start down the alley.
JETSON: I am sorry about your father. Porter throws him a look over his shoulder, then disappears through the door. Sykes and Jetson start down the alley.
JETSON: If I may make a suggestion. We have different weak spots than you do. Next time, a blow to the nerve plexus under the arm, here, will produce the effect I think you were looking for.
SYKES: Yeah, sure. I knew that.
KID: ( serving them ) Six forty-two. They both put money on the counter. The kid goes to put the order together. Sykes looks at the alien characters on the menu.
SYKES: I don't think I could ever learn to read that shit. How long did it take you to learn Three months. We learn quickly. We adapt. It is our strength. what we were bred for, to adapt to hostile The Serving Kid puts their bags on the counter.
JETSON: Three months. We learn quickly. We adapt. It is our strength. what we were bred for, to adapt to hostile The Serving Kid puts their bags on the counter.
JETSON: ( continuing ) Thank you. They take the bags and walk off, digging the food out of the bags as they talk:
SYKES: My neighbor's kid has a Newcomer girl in his class. She's six years old and in seventh grade already. They climb into the car.
SYKES: Oh, God. I think I got yours He holds up two strips of raw meat with patches of animal fur still on them. Jetson meanwhile is grimacing at the dripping cheeseburger he's just unwrapped. They quickly Which one is that? Raw what?
SYKES: ( continuing ) Which one is that? Raw what?
JETSON: ( eating a strip ) This is mole. It's good.
SYKES: I'll bet. Would it really put you out if they tossed that on the grill for a minute or two?
JETSON: Our bodies do not assimilate the nutrients if the food has been Jetson looks over at him, smiling.
SYKES: Oh, that's real attractive. You got fur in your teeth, George. Come on, man, we're gonna be talking to people. jeez. Sykes looks at his burger, his appetite gone, shoves it back into the sack and tosses it into the back seat.
SYKES: So what was that other word for Human. Slow ka?
JETSON: Ss'loka'. It means literally "small but intelligent creature". It loses much in the translation.
SYKES: And what was that one about my mother? That was a good one.
JETSON: Ss'trokya ss'lato 'na'.
SYKES: Yeah, that's it. Say it slow. Jetson pronounces the words and Sykes follows along haltingly. After several tries, he can say it passably INT. ENCOUNTERS - NIGHT An upscale, mostly yuppie-human dance club. The antithesis of the "X" bar. A human HOSTESS in a slit dress has just finished seating Sykes and Jetson at a table. She moves off. The two cops look up at the stage.
REVERSE ANGLE: revealing the exotic alien dancer named CASSANDRA. She moves with a feline blend of strength and grace. Framing her face is a silvery nylon wig that she tosses like a mane as she undulates to the MUSIC. Sykes watches with fascination. The MUSIC ends and Cassandra steps down from the stage, to be replaced by a human DANCER as the next SONG cranks up. Sykes and Jetson quickly intercept her as she heads backstage.
JETSON: You are Cassandra?
CASSANDRA: That's right.
JETSON: We are with the Police Department. This is Sergeant Sykes, and I am
CASSANDRA: ( laughing ) Ss'ai k'ss? Perfect.
SYKES: We're looking for your boss She eyes the two of them warily, then moves backstage, assuming they will follow.
CASSANDRA: He's not here. Why ask me?
JETSON: The young woman at the front said you might know where he is.
CASSANDRA: She did, did she? Well, she was wrong. Excuse me, I have to change.
SYKES: No problem. She moves through a door. Sykes follows closely so does INT. ENCOUNTERS - DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT Cassandra grabs some clothes and goes into a stall.
SYKES: Look, we're not here doing an interview for the school paper. This is a homicide investigation. and if you don't stop jerkin' us around, I'm ready to start playin' Jetson has waited politely half-in half-out of the room. Sykes rapidly motions to him to "go look around". Jetson mimes back, "Huh?"
CASSANDRA: ( slipping out of her Oooh. Hardball. That sounds interesting. Are you going to strike me? You could tie me up and then do whatever you want with me. I've got my own ropes.
SYKES: ( still miming to Does that cost extra or you throw them in?
CASSANDRA: You've got me all wrong. I don't charge money for something that I myself find pleasurable. Finally Jetson gets what Sykes is trying to tell him. He says in the uncertain, stagy voice of a bad liar:
JETSON: I am going out to the car. I will meet you there. Sykes rolls his eyes as Jetson exits into the corridor. Cassandra emerges from the stall, wearing a long, stylish, low-cut dress.
CASSANDRA: Look, I don't know where Mr. Strader might be. He comes and he The girl out front mentioned Strader's assistant, somebody named Watson. Maybe he knows.
SYKES: ( starting to feel a The girl out front mentioned Strader's assistant, somebody named Watson. Maybe he knows.
CASSANDRA: ( tensing slightly ) Todd? Todd doesn't know either. She is very close to Sykes now. She fingers the lapel of his jacket.
CASSANDRA: ( continuing ) I know. Why don't you hang around for a while, let me entertain you? It's Matt, right? Now tell me the truth, have you ever. made it. with one of us?
SYKES: Not unless I got real drunk and nobody told me about it later.
CASSANDRA: A virgin. I find that very INT. SECOND FLOOR CORRIDOR - NIGHT MUSIC drifts up from downstairs. Jetson moves along the corridor, scoping things out. He tries a door. Locked. Tries another one. Open. He eases it wider, then enters the darkened office.
SYKES: There's lots of things I haven't done, but his ain't high on the list. Don't take it personally.
CASSANDRA: I think you're just a little scared now, about what you might find once the lights go out. A little scared. and a lot curious. Maybe more than you want to admit. But doesn't that turn you on, that curiosity and fear, swirling Think of it as broadening your I like my horizons narrow.
SYKES: I like my horizons narrow.
CASSANDRA: ( pressing herself Your voice is saying no, but your body is saying yes. He quickly disengages from her.
SYKES: My voice, body, and everything else is saying I'll be back in two hours for Strader, and he better damn well be here. He shoves a business card at her, then retreats through the door.
SYKES: Freeze! Now! The assailant does. He looks at Sykes, scared, breathing hard. He's a Newcomer in a snappy Armani suit. This is TODD WATSON. Jetson, on the floor, starts to rise. Suddenly somebody flies at Sykes from the side, knocking him sideways down the corridor. It's Cassandra. Watson seizes the moment and shoves the off-balance Jetson into some furniture and dives for the door.
SYKES: ( struggling with Fire escape! End of the hall! Jetson nods, takes off down the corridor. Sykes manges to get one handcuff on Cassandra's wrist, the other cuff around a pipe sticking out of the wall. She SCREECHES at him in the alien language as he collects the Casull and charges down the corridor.
SYKES: ( breathing hard ) I'll be damned. It worked. ( sees Jetson run up ) How'd you like that, huh? Whammo! Both barrels. Dropped him like a bag of cement. Jetson picks up Watson's fallen wallet. He looks at the
SYKES: Who is he?
JETSON: Todd Watson. The assistant manager. Watson is still doubled over, just trying to draw one agonized breath.
WATSON: I don't believe this. Look at my suit. Look at what you made me do to my car.
SYKES: ( laughing ) Your girlfriend put up a better fight than you did, pal.
JETSON: We are looking for your employer, Joshua Strader.
WATSON: He's out of town.
JETSON: Why did you run?
WATSON: Because you two were chasing me.
SYKES: We were chasing you because you ran, you dumb son-of-a-bitch.
JETSON: When will Strader return?
WATSON: Who knows. He's the boss he doesn't have to check in with me.
SYKES: ( wearily ) Watson. this is my partner here's first coupla days, and he wants to make a good impression. Me, though, the way I feel this could be my last day, know what I mean? And I'm ready to rain on you like a cow pissin' on a flat rock.
WATSON: Look Mr. Strader hasn't been around for a coupla days. He didn't tell me where he was going or when he'd be back. I swear it.
SYKES: ( to Jetson ) What do you think?
JETSON: I believe he is probably lying.
SYKES: Through his ass. Next time you see him, tell him to call me. unless you want us to keep coming back on you like a bad case of herpes. Sykes shoves a business card in Watson's breast pocket. They walk away and Watson slumps against his car.
SYKES: George, you can handle the women from now on, you mind?
QUINT: ( to other Thugs ) Okay, scrape him up.
HARCOURT: Any progress?
QUINT: My arm's gettin' tired and so far, He is ss'verdlatya ss'alo to What's that mean?
KIPLING: He is ss'verdlatya ss'alo to What's that mean?
QUINT: What's that mean?
KIPLING: Duty-bonded. His allegiance to Strader is above pain or life.
QUINT: You tellin' me this guy would die before he'd screw his boss and work for us? Nobody's that dumb.
KIPLING: It is something you couldn't comprehend, Quint. Harcourt approaches Watson, kneels beside him, careful to keep the knee of his designer pants out of the sand.
HARCOURT: I understand you have been resisting my offer Mr. Watson. Your sense of duty to Mr. Strader is noble, but no longer an issue, I'm afraid. Harcourt signals and the two Thugs drag an alien body from the back if the van: a middle-aged alien, Strader, shot twice through the front of his silk suit. Watson's eyes widen in fear.
HARCOURT: ( continuing ) I will not make this offer again. I want you to work for me, to manage the nightclub as Strader's successor. If you do, you will know a wealth and comfort our people never dared Watson stares at Harcourt, scared but defiant.
WATSON: Sss'k'a ta'! Harcourt studies Watson a moment, perhaps even admiring his resolve. Then
HARCOURT: It is such a pity to die for an outmoded value. Mr. Quint, I believe it's time for our friend's swimming lesson. Watson freaks out, howling and lashing against the chains.
HARCOURT: ( to Watson ) It's important to learn new skills. Essential to your growth as a Quint and the Thugs free Watson from the bumper. He bucks and lunges as they drag him toward the surf. Quint addresses one of the Thugs, a new guy.
QUINT: You never seen this before, have you, Billy? oh, man, you ain't gonna believe it. seawater is like battery acid to these guys. I don't know what it is, some kinds chemical reaction. Whatta you think it is, Watson? Whoa, hold him. What I love about the surf is you can never tell how far up it's going to come until it. whoops, got a little wet there. The wave just sloshes over Watson's lower legs. He screams. Flailing, one of his hands dips below the surface of the water. He howls and yanks out his hand. We see the alien hand dripping seawater. then a thousand droplets of purple alien blood begin to bead all over the hand. The Thugs get Watson swinging.
QUINT: Last call, sucker. One. two.
THREE!: Watson is flung into the surf.
ANGLE: Harcourt and Kipling have walked down almost to the waterline. We HEAR Watson's GURGLES and SCREAMS. then nothing. Kipling is very nervous this close to the water. Harcourt seems unperturbed.
KIPLING: When we picked him up, he was talking to those two cops the two who came to question you about This is getting out of hand. I want you to deal with it. Immediately. A wave rushes up the sand. Kipling quickly steps back. Harcourt stands firm, staring it down, and the foam stops six inches from his dress shoes.
HARCOURT: This is getting out of hand. I want you to deal with it. Immediately. A wave rushes up the sand. Kipling quickly steps back. Harcourt stands firm, staring it down, and the foam stops six inches from his dress shoes.
HARCOURT: ( continuing ) We must learn to embrace the things we fear. and from that grow A moment, then he turns and starts back toward the limo. He motions to Strader's body and the surf. The Thugs grab the body and heave it into the waves.
JETSON: ( holds up milk Would you mind? Sykes shrugs, tosses him a glass. Jetson pours the semi- lumpy milk and takes a big swallow. Sykes grimaces. ( indicates phone ) So, she keeps you on a pretty short leash, does she?
SYKES: ( indicates phone ) So, she keeps you on a pretty short leash, does she?
JETSON: My wife? She worries about me. Sykes leans against the counter, getting comfortable, his voice more weary then bitter.
SYKES: Yeah. I know the routine.
JETSON: You are married?
SYKES: Was. Divorced.
JETSON: We mate for life. Divorce. is a strange concept to us.
SYKES: It's like having an eleventh finger removed. It hurts like hell, but you never really needed the damn thing in the first place. Jetson nods even though he doesn't really understand this. They drink. Jetson gazes around.
JETSON: Your home is quite disordered. I thought perhaps you had been burglarized when I walked in.
SYKES: ( growling ) I appreciate your honesty, George. He smacks his glass against Jetson's. They drink.
SYKES: Ignore the bitch on the left, that's Edie. I call her Edi Amin. This is Kristin, my daughter. It's kinda an old picture. she's twenty now. Getting married, in fact. on Jetson sitting across the table from Sykes, looks at the proffered photo. They're both a little drunk now.
JETSON: Human children can be very Getting married? Congratulations. You will be taking Sunday off, Maybe not. I don't know. I'm not sure I'm gonna go. She doesn't need her burn-out of a father there. Jetson looks at him. Sees something he never thought possible in Sykes. Vulnerability. Trying to break the melancholy mood, Jetson reaches for his wallet.
SYKES: ( uneasy ) Maybe not. I don't know. I'm not sure I'm gonna go. ( mumbles ) She doesn't need her burn-out of a father there. Jetson looks at him. Sees something he never thought possible in Sykes. Vulnerability. Trying to break the melancholy mood, Jetson reaches for his wallet.
JETSON: ( upbeat ) I must show you. ( flips open wallet, And this is Richard. My son. He's four years old. We named him after the former President, Richard Nixon. Sykes looks at all the photos sprawled out on the table. and has to laugh. He looks up at Jetson's sincere face. He may be starting to like this guy.
SYKES: You open to a piece of advice? Tell people you named him after Richard Burton, the actor. Just take my word for it. And he clacks his glass against Jetson's sitting on the table, and
SYKES: . and so, and so the doctor says, "If this is the thermometer, then where'd I leave the pen?" You're not. you don't think that's funny? George, work with me, I always get a laugh with that one. Look, if the doctor's got the thermometer in his hand, then where's his pen gotta be?
JETSON: ( straight-faced ) In the other man's rectum.
SYKES: ( laughing ) Sticking out of his ass. yeah! See, that's what makes it a joke. There's like a surprise, and your mind fills in the funny picture. Here's this guy with a pen stuck in his ass and he thinks it's a ( Jetson just blinks ) Nada, huh? Jetson shrugs apologetically. Sykes pours them each another round.
SYKES: ( continuing ) Your health.
JETSON: Ta ss'trakyona'. They CLACK glasses, and
JETSON: There is so much our two peoples don't understand about each other.
SYKES: No shit, Holmes. You're only from another goddamn planet, for You humans are very curious to us. You invite us to live among you, in an atmosphere of equality we've never known before. You lay before us a beautiful green world, full of freedoms and opportunities. You give us ownership of our lives for the first time. and you ask no more of us than you do of yourselves: to live by the rules. rules that aren't made to keep one people subordinate to another, but rules that exist to preserve equality. You aspire to very high ideals here. Sykes is watching Jetson, mesmerized. The guy's never said this much at one time before. If he wasn't drunk, Jetson would never let himself open up to a human like this.
JETSON: You humans are very curious to us. You invite us to live among you, in an atmosphere of equality we've never known before. You lay before us a beautiful green world, full of freedoms and opportunities. You give us ownership of our lives for the first time. and you ask no more of us than you do of yourselves: to live by the rules. rules that aren't made to keep one people subordinate to another, but rules that exist to preserve equality. You aspire to very high ideals here. Sykes is watching Jetson, mesmerized. The guy's never said this much at one time before. If he wasn't drunk, Jetson would never let himself open up to a human like this.
JETSON: ( continuing ) I hope you can understand how special your world is. how unique a people you humans are. So it us all the more painful and confusing to us that so few of you seem capable of living up the the ideals you set for yourselves.
SYKES: Don't count on me, George. I never had any ideals. Jetson smiles a little. He knows that's bullshit.
JETSON: We don't understand the hatred, the contempt. But we must bear it. we must not react in anger. because our situation here is still fragile. The separationists would see us returned to the quarantine camps. The fundamentalists say we have no more human rights than dogs or cats. But the prejudice we face here is so insignificant compared to the pain that we've known before. And that is why we are so grateful. Sykes studies him a long time through heavy-lidded eyes. Yeah, well. except I did hear you eat your dead. Jetson looks at him a long beat, then
SYKES: Yeah, well. except I did hear you eat your dead. Jetson looks at him a long beat, then
JETSON: ( deadpan ) Only on Fridays. Sykes stares at him for about five seconds and then explodes with laughter.
SYKES: You son-of-a-bitch. You're okay. Jetson stands unsteadily, and announces:
JETSON: I'm going home.
SYKES: Yeah, go home. Get some sleep. You do sleep, don't you? Jetson, going out the front door, just waves over his shoulder without turning around. He's gone.
SYKES: What a wildman. Sykes, stands there wobbling, then he collapses backward onto the sofa, unconscious. And we MATCH DISSOLVE TO
SYKES: This better be good news or money. He shambles to the door and gets it open, admitting Jetson. Jetson holds the C-4 charge in a handkerchief with one hand and gives it to Sykes.
JETSON: Hold this. I feel very terrible. Sykes registers what he's holding. He moves to Jetson, who is running his head under the tap.
SYKES: Where'd you get this?!!
JETSON: A man, a human, was wiring it to your car. I didn't get a good look at him. I must call my wife.
JETSON: She's going to divorce me.
SYKES: George, she's not gonna divorce you. You mate for life, remember?
JETSON: She's very progressive. I'm certain she's considering it.
SECRETARY: You guys are looking for somebody named Strader, right?
SYKES: Fedorchuk and Alterez just phoned in. They found him. Or at least what's left of him, washed up on the beach at Zuma. Sykes and Jetson react again.
SECRETARY: Fedorchuk and Alterez just phoned in. They found him. Or at least what's left of him, washed up on the beach at Zuma. Sykes and Jetson react again.
SECRETARY: ( continuing; handing They're still there if you wanna catch them. She moves off.
SYKES: Well, let's roll, George.
JETSON: ( with a stricken To the. to the beach?
SYKES: Come on, let's go, dude. Surf's up!
SYKES: All right, okay. Keep your pantyhose on. Jeez, when in doubt, freak out, for chrissake. Sykes sees that his partner is covered with a sudden sheen of sweat, his hands shaking. Sykes softens.
SYKES: ( continuing ) It's all right, George. It's cool. Just wait here, all right? I'll be back in a coupla minutes.
JETSON: Thank you. He climbs out and Sykes drives down to the beach. toward a cluster of vehicles: a Sheriff's black-and-white, a coroner's wagon, and Fedorchuk's unmarked sedan.
FEDORCHUK: Found his wallet in his jacket pocket. Joshua Strader, big as Jesus, what a mess. It's gonna be a bear to make a positive determination, but it looks to me like he was shot before being tossed in the drink. At least twice here, and here. Sykes absorbs this. He rises along with Fedorchuk and How're you two doing on Tuggle's The store owner's son is in a street gang, so now we're thinking maybe it's gang related.
CORONER'S TECH: Jesus, what a mess. It's gonna be a bear to make a positive determination, but it looks to me like he was shot before being tossed in the drink. At least twice here, and here. Sykes absorbs this. He rises along with Fedorchuk and How're you two doing on Tuggle's The store owner's son is in a street gang, so now we're thinking maybe it's gang related.
SYKES: How're you two doing on Tuggle's The store owner's son is in a street gang, so now we're thinking maybe it's gang related.
ALTEREZ: The store owner's son is in a street gang, so now we're thinking maybe it's gang related.
SYKES: Yeah, that's real good. You guys follow up on that for a coupla Fedorchuk looks up at Jetson standing on the bluff above.
FEDORCHUK: Look at your dildo partner. He's too scared to even come down to the You're not gonna get wet standing here, moron!
SYKES: I'd like to see you next to a sea of hydrochloric acid, Fedorchuk. see how much surfin' you'd do. Alterez shoots a polaroid of the body. Sykes grabs it as it emerges from the camera and walks back toward the car. Fedorchuk flips him the bird. As Sykes rounds the car, he sees that someone has drawn on the door in yellow liquid chalk marker a big star with "E.T. P.D." printed inside it. Sykes looks around. Fedorchuk and the others stand together chuckling, conspicuously not looking in his EXT. BEACH ROAD - DUSK Sykes has stopped to pick Jetson up. He's wiping the "E.T. P.D." from the door as Jetson approaches from the edge of the bluff. Fedorchuk pulls up alongside in his n.d. sedan. He calls off to Jetson, who is still twenty yards away.
SYKES: EXT. BEACH ROAD - DUSK Sykes has stopped to pick Jetson up. He's wiping the "E.T. P.D." from the door as Jetson approaches from the edge of the bluff. Fedorchuk pulls up alongside in his n.d. sedan. He calls off to Jetson, who is still twenty yards away.
FEDORCHUK: Well, if it isn't Detective Jetson. Forget you hip waders, big guy?
SYKES: Lay off, asshole.
FEDORCHUK: I may be an asshole, but at least I'm a real detective, not some outer shit space thing. Sykes, his face neutral, which we should by now know to be highly dangerous, saunters to Fedorchuk's car and leans against it.
SYKES: Yeah? you're a real honest-to-god Sykes grabs the back of Fedorchuk's head and slams it into the steering wheel, BAM-HONK!, and in doing so, has hurt his hand again ( the hand he hit Jetson with ). He shakes that hand while lunging in and grabbing Fedorchuk's car keys with the other.
SYKES: ( continuing ) Then detect these! Fedorchuk, holding his bloody nose, watches as his car keys sail out in an arc out over the bluff. Jetson, just climbing into the slug-mobile, witnesses the last of this scene without knowing how it began.
JETSON: What was that about?
SYKES: ( embarrassed that he On Jetson's confused expression, we
SYKES: . So we've got three guys dead. All Newcomers, all killed the same way execution style.
JETSON: Warren Hubley was in middle management at a refinery. Joshua Strader operated a successful bar and nightclub.
SYKES: . and Porter ran a piece of shit mom-and-pop mini-mart. So what the hell's the connection?
SYKES: You guys finished the postmortem on Strader yet?
WINTER: ( his mouth full ) You mean the Blob? They're finishing up now.
JETSON: Is Bentner here? I must speak with He went home early his kid was Jetson frowns.
WINTER: He went home early his kid was Jetson frowns.
WINTER: ( continuing ) Yeah, but he left something for you. He wipes his greasy fingers on a napkin, then finds an envelope on the desk and hands it to Jetson. Jetson tears open the sealed envelope. The message inside is written in the alien language.
WINTER: ( continuing ) Does this have something to do with the test he ran that he wouldn't tell me about?
SYKES: ( getting very curious What kind of test?
WINTER: Looking for some foreign compound in the blood of that alien you dropped the other day.
SYKES: Did he find anything? Winter shrugs, indicates the message Jetson reads, as if to say, "Maybe it says in there".
SYKES: ( to Jetson ) Jetson refolds the paper and puts it in his pocket. He is clearly disturbed by what he has read. He looks at Sykes a moment, then quickly breaks eye contact.
JETSON: It is nothing. Jetson quickly moves off. Sykes hurries off after him.
SYKES: What's this nothing shit? It wasn't nothing yesterday when you asked Bentner to run that test and he looked like he was about to shit peach pits, and it's not nothing now. Don't lie to me, George, you're bad at it.
JETSON: ( distant, closed ) You must leave me alone on this. The elevator arrives, he steps in. Sykes follows.
SYKES: No, see, I don't leave you alone. I'm your partner. I don't work that way. Tug didn't work that way. Jetson remains steadfast. Sykes, about to explode, slams his palm against the red Emergency Stop button and the elevator lurches to a halt between floors.
SYKES: ( continuing ) No secrets, goddammit! You don't hold back from me. Whatever is going on, you're gonna tell me now!
JETSON: ( agonizing ) No. I cannot involve you. This is not your concern.
SYKES: The hell it isn't, when somebody wires up enough C-4 explosive to my car to turn me into pink mist! That Slag was on something, and not sour milk, either? Am I right? TELL ME! What is it?
JETSON: ( finally ) . It is called ss'jabroka'. To us it is a potent narcotic.
SYKES: How potent?
JETSON: Like your cocaine, I suppose. The "high" lasts several hours. We would receive small amounts of it. as a reward for our labor.
SYKES: We? You've taken it?
JETSON: We all did.
SYKES: Where did he get it? Was there any of it on the ship?
JETSON: No. I am sure not. That is why I am so concerned. someone must now be producing it here. But none of my people know how to make it. The process was carefully Jesus, this is major. Why didn't you tell me sooner? Why'd you hold out on me?
SYKES: ( as the enormity Jesus, this is major. ( then ) Why didn't you tell me sooner? Why'd you hold out on me?
JETSON: Your people don't know about this part of out past. And they can't know It would threaten our entire existence here. The voltage runs out of Sykes. He seems to understand Jetson's dilemma.
SYKES: George. look me in the eye. George, you don't ever lie to me I must trust you, Matthew. I cannot stop this without you. Sykes stare at Jetson. absorbing the enormity of the earth-shattering secret this alien has asked him to keep.
JETSON: I must trust you, Matthew. I cannot stop this without you. Sykes stare at Jetson. absorbing the enormity of the earth-shattering secret this alien has asked him to keep.
SYKES: George? How about you drive. Jetson looks over at him. gently reacting to this vote of confidence. They walk quickly around to the opposite doors, climb in.
SYKES: There's gotta be some other They enter a door marked BUREAU OF NEWCOMER AFFAIRS.
OPERATOR: Here's Hubley. Left Quarantine on November thirtieth, relocated first to Riverside, then moved to Los Angeles early in February the following year. Field of expertise: chemical manufacturing. Looks like he passed up several other better paying jobs waiting for that one at the Try Joshua Strader, will ya, For you, anything. The Operator punches up STRADER, JOSHUA. The screen fills with information.
SYKES: Try Joshua Strader, will ya, For you, anything. The Operator punches up STRADER, JOSHUA. The screen fills with information.
OPERATOR: For you, anything. The Operator punches up STRADER, JOSHUA. The screen fills with information.
OPERATOR: ( continuing, reading Released on November twenty-ninth. Came immediately to L.A. Ten weeks after arriving he took over the abandoned club which is now ( to Operator ) Now the store owner, please. Cecil She types it in.
JETSON: ( to Operator ) Now the store owner, please. Cecil She types it in.
OPERATOR: Released December one. He and his wife moved first to Modesto, then Coalinga, California wherever that is settled in L.A. in April. Field of expertise: organic chemical engineering. He and his wife have one child, a son.
SYKES: Yeah we met him. Wonderful boy. close personal friend of George's here.
OPERATOR: I'm sorry, Matt. Nothing here seems to be matching up. But Sykes wasn't listening. He's starting off. an idea forming. He stands there a moment, considering it, his face looking like he's chewing something sour. It's so off-the-wall it takes a moment for him to assimilate it. Holy shit. Look what we're staring at: three Newcomers with nothing in common, right? What if it's just one other guy who killed these three? Three and one make four. Four Newcomers. of totally different You and the store owner's son that punker! Suddenly the realization hits Jetson, too. He looks at . Quarantine. Sykes spins to the Operator, excited.
SYKES: Holy shit. Look what we're staring at: three Newcomers with nothing in common, right? What if it's just one other guy who killed these three? Three and one make four. Four Newcomers. of totally different You and the store owner's son that punker! Suddenly the realization hits Jetson, too. He looks at . Quarantine. Sykes spins to the Operator, excited.
JETSON: . Quarantine. Sykes spins to the Operator, excited.
SYKES: Can you dig up their Quarantine records in this thing?
OPERATOR: Sure. Just a minute. She moves up a screen to the top of Porter's information.
OPERATOR: ( to herself ) Porter was in Lodge seven seven two. She rapidly types in additional information. The screen shifts as she jumps files. Finally she gets a line that reads: ENTER LODGE NUMBER: She types: 7-7-2. Sykes and Jetson lean in as the screen goes blank. then information flashes past as the computer searches. then, finally: Occupants, Quarantine Lodge 772: HUBLEY,
HARCOURT: Quite lovely. What is your name again?
CASSANDRA: ( flinching ( a chilling smile ) I will have to remember that. He continues down toward the office door. Cassandra watches him go.
HARCOURT: ( a chilling smile ) I will have to remember that. He continues down toward the office door. Cassandra watches him go.
JETSON: They had months in quarantine to develop the plan. Porter, with his chemistry background, must have somehow come up with the formula for the drug. Hubley manufactured it at the refinery. Strader, through the nightclub, established a distribution network. And Harcourt was the brain who brought it all together.
SYKES: Harcourt was the brain who brought it all together.
SYKES: Okay, George we gotta play this real smart.
JETSON: If the drug is here, we must destroy No, George you're missing the point. The drug is evidence. We need to have the evidence, ya know? Jetson doesn't reply he's focused beyond what Sykes is saying. Sykes spots O'Neal up ahead by the refrigeration door to the METHANE SECTION.
SYKES: No, George you're missing the point. The drug is evidence. We need to have the evidence, ya know? Jetson doesn't reply he's focused beyond what Sykes is saying. Sykes spots O'Neal up ahead by the refrigeration door to the METHANE SECTION.
SYKES: ( continuing ) That's the guy. O'Neal recognizes Sykes and doesn't wait around for the big Newcomer bearing down on him. He dodges quickly through the refrigeration door and swings it closed. Jetson's hand hits the door an instant later, before it is latched, and he pushes it open despite O'Neal's body weight against the other side.
O'NEAL: Hey, what are you, crazy?! You can't come in here like this! Hey! Sykes reaches the doorway, stops and stares.
SYKES: So much for playing it smart. O'Neal's feet are barely touching the ground as Jetson moves along the row of drug-manufacturing equipment. Finally he reaches a stainless steel tub. he runs a long finger along the inside, comes up with some residue of the drug. It glistens blue on his finger. It holds him mesmerized for several moments. his expression that of a former junkie beholding the stuff he used to covet so.
SYKES: ( tentatively Is that it.? A beat, than Jetson explodes he sweeps a rack of equipment off the worktable, savagely wipes the drug from his hand onto O'Neal's shirt-front as he slams and pins the bug-eyed O'Neal to the wall.
SYKES: Uh, George.
JETSON: ( in O'Neal's face ) Where is the drug? Where have they taken it?
O'NEAL: ( choking ) What drug? This is an oil refinery, ( pushing harder )
JETSON: ( pushing harder )
WHERE?!: ( unable to breathe ) You. can't do. this!
O'NEAL: ( unable to breathe ) You. can't do. this!
SYKES: George, uh. you're gonna break his little chest bones.
JETSON: Stay out of this, Matthew. Tell me where the drug has been taken or I will crush your lungs against this wall. O'Neal is experiencing real fear now. Sykes has decided to back Jetson up, for better or worse. He takes the "good cop" role.
SYKES: Don't piss him off, O'Neal. When he gets like this, I can't control him. I've seen this before. He got like this once I saw him jerk a guy's spine out and show it to him. Nothing I could do. I hadda go throw up.
O'NEAL: ( at length, with . They took the stuff out, all of it this afternoon.
JETSON: How much?
O'NEAL: About fifty kilos. of concentrate. and some street grade. in tubes. Jetson reacts to this. then increases the pressure. O'Neal is really in bad trouble now. Even Sykes takes a half-step forward thinking Jetson might actually crush this man.
JETSON: Where have they taken it?
O'NEAL: Encount. Encounters Club. Finally, Jetson eases off. O'Neal slumps to the floor, gasping for air.
SYKES: George, c'mon lighten up. It's a beauty of a case. Don't sweat it we got him by the short hairs. He ain't gonna make any more of the The fifty kilos, Matthew. I have to find it. I can't let it get out on the street.
JETSON: The fifty kilos, Matthew. I have to find it. I can't let it get out on the street.
SYKES: Why? What's the big goddamn deal? Jetson has reached the driver's door of the slug-mobile, yanks it open.
SYKES: ( continuing; as You destroy that drug, you destroy the case. Don't blow the whole thing now by not following ( through the open Fuck procedure. And to Sykes' shock, he throws the car in gear and peels Jetson accelerates toward the security gate. The guard in the shack starts yelling and runs out as the slug-mobile bashes through the barricade bar.
JETSON: ( through the open Fuck procedure. And to Sykes' shock, he throws the car in gear and peels Jetson accelerates toward the security gate. The guard in the shack starts yelling and runs out as the slug-mobile bashes through the barricade bar.
SYKES: Jetson accelerates toward the security gate. The guard in the shack starts yelling and runs out as the slug-mobile bashes through the barricade bar.
SYKES: GEORGE! GODDAMMIT!! Sykes stands there like a moron with no partner, no car. A pickup truck carrying a Worker just getting off his shift starts ambling past. Sykes runs in front of it, waving his badge. The pickup skids to a stop.
SYKES: Police. Get out. I need this thing. Out, now! The poor guy bails out and Sykes jumps in, jamming it into gear. The truck has seen better days. it doesn't have much power to give as Sykes floors it toward the exit.
JETSON: I am here to take Harcourt. Where is he? She hesitates, then decides to cooperate, indicates with a nod toward the office door.
CASSANDRA: In there.
JETSON: ( pulling his gun ) Show me.
HARCOURT: ( to alien dealers ) It's been a long time, hasn't it, HUMAN DEALER What is it?
HUMAN DEALER: What is it?
HARCOURT: A sweet indulgence from out past. resurrected for our future. Harcourt sees the hungering expressions on the alien Dealers' faces. smiles knowingly. He slides one of the dispensers from the suitcase.
HARCOURT: ( continuing; to Please feel free to sample the quality. The experience will be everything you remember it to be. One of the alien Dealers takes the dispenser, brings it to his tongue. The other alien dealer turns to Harcourt
ALIEN DEALER: Where'd you get it?
HARCOURT: I arranged to spend some time with three very resourceful men. With a certain amount of coaxing, one of them was able to reconstitute the formula for me. They worked very well together. Unfortunately, they are no longer with us. but I was fortunate enough to reap the benefit of their He indicates the drug. The first alien Dealer sways gently, enjoying the sensation. The second alien Dealer takes his hit. shudders as the first rush washes over him. The human Dealer is no fool. he grabs the Let me try some. Jesus! Tastes like detergent!
HUMAN DEALER: Let me try some. Jesus! Tastes like detergent!
HARCOURT: And that's all the effect it will have on you. But when my fellow Newcomers learn they can obtain it here, they will work very hard. to make as much money as they can. to give it to me. Suddenly, a voice from the shadows near the open door to the other office:
VOICE: You haven't told him all of it. Harcourt and the others react. Quint leaps to his feet, caught off guard. Kipling reaches for his shoulder holster. A silhouette beside the open door to the outer office nudges Cassandra into the light of the room, then steps out himself. It is Jetson. Quint gets his gun out, is about to aim. when his eyes go wide at the sight of something Jetson holds. It is the plastic explosive charge that Quint was wiring to the slug-mobile. The wires are connected and Jetson's finger squeezes down hard on the detonation push-switch.
QUINT: He's got the C-4 charge! Jetson moves forward slowly, holding the bomb in front of him. He is sweating rivers. The others quickly join him. He nudges Cassandra ahead of himself, keeping her where he can see her.
QUINT: ( continuing ) Just take it real casual, buddy. Keep your finger on that button and don't do nothing squirrely.
HARCOURT: If you release that button, you not only kill us, but yourself.
JETSON: To get you and that I would do it. He says it with such straightforward eye contact, that Harcourt ( and we ) know he isn't bluffing.
JETSON: Everyone up against that wall. Very slowly. Except you. Harcourt remains behind the desk. Cassandra stays where she is, near Jetson. The others move to the wall. Kipling in particular is going nuts, letting this happen. Jetson takes the "sample" dispenser from the table, tosses it into the suitcase, then closes the lid and locks it. All the while keeping his eye on Harcourt and the others.
HARCOURT: One small matter seems to have escaped your attention. That is not on any books as a controlled substance. Legally it might as well be fifty kilos of. grape jelly.
JETSON: The charge is murder. and conspiracy to commit murder. Hubley, Porter, Strader. probably There's a flicker of concern behind Harcourt's icy blue Cassandra stares at Harcourt.
CASSANDRA: You. you killed Strader? Cassandra runs to Harcourt grabbing his jacket.
CASSANDRA: Where's Todd?! Did you do something to Todd?! Harcourt looks down at her, totally uninvolved.
HARCOURT: Todd? Who is Todd. Ah, poor Mr. Watson. Cassandra's eyes go wide as the horror of what he said sinks in. Jetson nudges Harcourt with the suitcase. They start out. Cassandra, wild with rage, grabs Quint's .357 and with a KEENING WAIL, brings it up toward Harcourt's Jetson drops the suitcase as he lunges for the gun. He manages to knock it away just as she fires the bullet going into the wall behind Harcourt. Striking like a mongoose, Kipling leaps forward, grabbing the two lead wires on the bomb in Jetson's hand and jerking them apart. Jetson reacts an instant late. releasing the switch. and nothing happens.
JETSON: Jetson drops the suitcase as he lunges for the gun. He manages to knock it away just as she fires the bullet going into the wall behind Harcourt. Striking like a mongoose, Kipling leaps forward, grabbing the two lead wires on the bomb in Jetson's hand and jerking them apart. Jetson reacts an instant late. releasing the switch. and nothing happens.
NOOO!: Jetson drops the suitcase as he lunges for the gun. He manages to knock it away just as she fires the bullet going into the wall behind Harcourt. Striking like a mongoose, Kipling leaps forward, grabbing the two lead wires on the bomb in Jetson's hand and jerking them apart. Jetson reacts an instant late. releasing the switch. and nothing happens.
KIPLING: I got it! Kipling tackles Jetson and they both go crashing to the floor. Quint grabs the gun from Cassandra and hammers her with it, hard. She drops to her knees and Quint viciously hits her again. Meanwhile, Jetson struggles to regain his feet. Kipling rears back and delivers a crushing blow under Jetson's arm to the nerve plexus. Jetson instantly folds over forward and Kipling savagely brings up his knee into Jetson's face, flipping him back. Kipling slams him into the wall face-first, pinning him there.
HARCOURT: Kill them both.
KIPLING: ( raging ) Do it! Quint brings the gun up, places the muzzle against the base of Cassandra's skull, starts to squeeze the trigger. There's a loud BLAM! and Cassandra flinches. then looks Quint is blown backward away from her. Sykes stand in the doorway from the private office, the Casull smoking in his hand. Quint hits the wall behind him only it's not a solid wall, but the huge window overlooking the club. He crashes through it.
HARCOURT: ( raging ) Do it! Quint brings the gun up, places the muzzle against the base of Cassandra's skull, starts to squeeze the trigger. There's a loud BLAM! and Cassandra flinches. then looks Quint is blown backward away from her. Sykes stand in the doorway from the private office, the Casull smoking in his hand. Quint hits the wall behind him only it's not a solid wall, but the huge window overlooking the club. He crashes through it.
ALIEN DEALER: Don't shoot, man we're unarmed Sykes looks at these harmless wimps. then at Cassandra.
SYKES: You okay?
CASSANDRA: ( dazed, but all And he charges out the adjoining office door.
HARCOURT: He throws the suitcase into the passenger side door, jumps in. Kipling dives in behind the wheel, slams it into gear and floors it. Jetson and Sykes hit the ground just as the unit peels out. Sykes raises the Casull and fires at the fleeing car. One slug shatters a tail light, others pepper the rear of the trunk, but the car keeps going.
JETSON: This way! He indicates the slug-mobile parked nearby. They race to it, jump in. Sykes driving. He burns rubber as he pulls A second arriving police unit pulls into the alley, heading straight for the slug-mobile. Sykes has to grate between the alley wall and the arriving police unit to get EXT. WEST SIDE STREET - NIGHT Harcourt and Kipling in the first police unit come thundering down the street zig-zagging through traffic. The slug-mobile is three-quarters of a block behind them.
JETSON: Slow traffic on your right. you're clear at the left rear. Careful, red light ahead. With Jetson's help, Sykes is able to dice through the cross-traffic without incident.
JETSON: Yellow light ahead turning red. But Sykes doesn't slow instead he floors it.
JETSON: ( continuing; wide- Red light! Red light!
JETSON: Green light, Matthew. Green light! Now Sykes looks. The light at the intersection has just turned green and the rows of the cars that were waiting start coming. It's a wall of headlights coming right for the slug-mobile.
SYKES: EXT. WEST SIDE STREET - NIGHT Sykes locks up the brakes. Kipling veers around a couple of cars and speeds away. Because of the other traffic, Sykes has only one course of action. He skids a left onto a side street.
JETSON: EXT. WEST SIDE STREET - NIGHT Sykes locks up the brakes. Kipling veers around a couple of cars and speeds away. Because of the other traffic, Sykes has only one course of action. He skids a left onto a side street.
SYKES: Move your goddamned cars! People climb out of their cars dazed and bewildered ignoring Sykes. Sykes slides behind the wheel, bangs his bumper into the car in front of him, and pushes the car far enough forward to get around. He speeds off.
JETSON: Sykes sees it. Thinking fast, he eases off, using another car as a blind. He waits until the police unit is parallel to an off-ramp, then guns ahead and swings right, directly for the police unit. Kipling looks over, reacts, just as the slug-mobile broadsides the police unit. Sykes forces the police unit up the off-ramp.
ON SYKES: He eases cautiously toward the shadows where he knows Harcourt is. There's some movement among the shadows, and Sykes straight-arms the Casull, his finger white against the trigger. Perspiration drips into Sykes' eye, but he doesn't blink. A long moment then
SYKES: Move a finger, Harcourt, and you're No, Sergeant not history. And now Sykes sees it Harcourt has been holding one of the one-kilo glass cylinders of the drug concealed behind his arm. He brings it up over his head, grins at Sykes, then tilts back his head and cracks the cylinder open. The blue gel pours into his mouth and down his chin. His mouth fills. He looks back at Sykes, making eye contact. his eyes mad, defiant. And he swallows. Long hold then the wallop of the overdose hits him. his face contorts in agony as he begins to convulse. Sykes, wide-eyed, lowers the Casull and watches as Harcourt drops to the ground and goes into a massive violent seizure. His limbs hammer against the deck. his back arches fiercely. It is a brutal, agonizing ten seconds. Then, finally, his body becomes still. Sykes, stunned at what he's just witnessed slowly goes to him and takes his pulse the way he saw Jetson do it.
HARCOURT: No, Sergeant not history. And now Sykes sees it Harcourt has been holding one of the one-kilo glass cylinders of the drug concealed behind his arm. He brings it up over his head, grins at Sykes, then tilts back his head and cracks the cylinder open. The blue gel pours into his mouth and down his chin. His mouth fills. He looks back at Sykes, making eye contact. his eyes mad, defiant. And he swallows. Long hold then the wallop of the overdose hits him. his face contorts in agony as he begins to convulse. Sykes, wide-eyed, lowers the Casull and watches as Harcourt drops to the ground and goes into a massive violent seizure. His limbs hammer against the deck. his back arches fiercely. It is a brutal, agonizing ten seconds. Then, finally, his body becomes still. Sykes, stunned at what he's just witnessed slowly goes to him and takes his pulse the way he saw Jetson do it.
ANGLE: Jetson, half sitting up, holds the smoking Casull. Kipling recovers enough to come at Sykes again with the suitcase again. Jetson, shaking but determined, fires again, and again, and again. Kipling is driven backward by the fusillade, the suitcase still over his head. until he is blasted at last and forever, suitcase and all, into the molten core of the Sykes rises, makes his way to Jetson's side. Jetson has let the weight of the gun carry his hand to the ground. Sykes kneels beside him, gently taking the gun from the alien's hand. The two partners remain like this, bathed in the orange flickering glow of the fire.
JETSON: With Harcourt and Kipling dead, I assume you will be requesting reassignment now.
SYKES: ( cool ) It'd be for your own good. I think you'd be better off with a partner who's a little more. by the book. ( smiles ) . Still, I gotta tell you, George, for a quiet guy, you're sure hell on wheels once you get going. I'd kinda hate to miss your next two days as a detective. Jetson smiles. He glances up as they are bathed in red and blue light. A patrol car has pulled up next to them. Inside is Wiltey, a uniformed cop.
WILTEY: I'll give you guys a lift to the station. They're waiting to take your statements on the shootings.
SYKES: ( to Jetson ) Let's go, partner. ( then casually And it's shooting. Singular.
WILTEY: They said two.
SYKES: Nope. I didn't shoot Harcourt. he SHOCK CUT - JETSON We rapidly PUSH IN ON HIM as his head snaps around toward Sykes. His expression tells us his blood has just turned to ice.
DRIVER: So it's just me and her left in the hot tub, right?
ATTENDANT: You and the blonde?
DRIVER: No, man, the redhead. The blonde's gone in the house with some other guy. But a few minutes later she comes back out, alone, when me and the redhead are going at it fast and furious in the tub, ya know. and she sees us, and. she climbs right in with us.
ATTENDANT: You're full of shit!
DRIVER: I swear it! If I'm lyin', I'm And, without warning, A LARGE INHUMAN HAND FLIES UP IN F.G., having ripped through the sealed body bag just below
JETSON: You are certain this is the route they would have taken?
WILTEY: I'm not positive but probably.
SYKES: ( warily ) What's this about, George? I know that look.
JETSON: ( spots something out There! Go back. Down that side Wiltey brakes, backs up, then turns into the side street.
JETSON: ( both Sykes and We must do this alone.
SYKES: Do what?! George ?! Jetson is already sliding out of the car.
WILTEY: Oh, God. Sykes and Jetson look. The bodies of the coroner wagon Driver and Attendant, as well as the two OFFICERS from the patrol car, are crushed and beaten and stretched out on the asphalt. Their arms are twisted as though by a mad force each pointing down the street toward the dock warehouses ahead. Wiltey stumbles away, backward.
WILTEY: I'm calling for back up, now.
JETSON: Wiltey, no. But Wiltey is going. Jetson starts after him. but Sykes grabs his arm, hard, and spins him.
SYKES: What is this?!
JETSON: ( low ) . It's Harcourt.
SYKES: Harcourt is dead.
JETSON: No he's not. Not if he overdosed on the drug. Massive amounts trigger a. a change. Your body functions seize up, you appear to be dead, but it's really a state of incubation. When you emerge you're.
SYKES: ( looks at the four Tell me about it.
MOVING POV: as they move past the shadowy dock warehouses. watching for any signs of movement.
SYKES: I never thought I'd say this, but for once in my life I think I'm willing to wait for back-up.
JETSON: We can't let him get away.
SYKES: Why the hell are you so dead set against back-up?
JETSON: ( a difficult Because. because of what will happen if humans see what we are capable of becoming.
SYKES: But there's no more drug.
JETSON: You understand that. But how many others will? Sykes looks across at Jetson's troubled expression. Just then, Wiltey spots a flit of movement cutting across his headlight beams fifty yards ahead. Whatever it was, was large and fast. It darted into an open warehouse There he is! And Wiltey floors it. Sykes and Jetson watch, unable to stop him.
WILTEY: There he is! And Wiltey floors it. Sykes and Jetson watch, unable to stop him.
JETSON: He and Sykes take off running. Wiltey skids to the left, rockets in through the open warehouse door, out of sight. Sykes and Jetson pour it on. They hear a SCREECH OF BRAKES. They reach the warehouse door and race through.
THEIR POV: There are two paths to go. Both dark and scary as hell. The sound of a distant FOG HORN blends with the CREAKS and DRIPS of this waterfront building.
WITH JETSON: As he moves into a dark area. He slowly picks his way along a long wall, having to step over all sorts of piled debris, heading toward us. We PAN slightly to the left to HOLD a door in CLOSE UP. The door, already ajar, eases open slightly wider. Jetson hears this. He reaches the door, sets himself, then spins and kicks the door open all the way. There's nothing inside. now. Jetson looks up, sees movement in the distance. It is Sykes, quite far away, in another section of the warehouse. Sykes leaves Jetson's field of view.
ON SYKES: He stumbles back, gets tangled in the nets, brings up the Casull, is about to fire when. he sees what the face is. It's the maiden's figurehead from the bow of an old ship. The wood is worm-eaten and decayed, creating a hideous visage. Sykes stands there a moment, trying to jump-start his heart again.
HARCOURT: ( his voice a guttural Looking for me, Sergeant? Sykes stumbles back several steps, wildly brings up the Casull, and fires. The powerful Casull round catches Harcourt in the shoulder, jerking him back.
JETSON: On that boat out there! Jetson indicates the fishing boat headed toward the mouth of the channel. The helicopter tilts forward and goes.
CAPTAIN: EXT. FISHING BOAT - NIGHT Harcourt turns, sees the Captain on the bridge above him. He reaches for a wood-handled gaff nearby. He rears back with it and lets it fly like a spear.
JETSON: Take it down! Take it down!
JETSON: ( to Pilot )
PILOT: I CAN'T IT'LL DITCH! Sykes' outreached hand stretches up from the water, but the skid is just too high. Jetson has no alternative, and he does the bravest thing he has ever done. He moves out onto the narrow helicopter skid. Hanging on, three feet above the water, he reaches down for Sykes' up reaching The fingertips of the two hands waver mere inches from each other. Jetson stretches farther, farther. and the two hands meet! Jetson winces from the pain of the seawater on Sykes' hand. He starts pulling Sykes up. HARCOURT'S HEAD BREAKS THE SURFACE A FOOT FROM SYKES' gone. The nearly skeletal body heaves blindly onto Sykes, breaking his grip from Jetson's, and dragging him under Jetson is frantic. He keeps waiting but this time Sykes doesn't come up. Jetson doesn't know what to do. Finally he leans down as far as he can, his face a foot from the water, SCREAMS to block the pain, and plunges his own arm below the surface! He feels around, gets hold of something, and pulls. It is Sykes' wrist. He pulls hard, bringing the sputtering Sykes up out of the water.
JETSON: ( to Pilot ) Take it up! The Pilot does. Sykes comes up out of the water. His feet are just clear of the surface when Harcourt's hand and arm rocket out of the water, grabbing Sykes' ankle. Sykes looks down in horror. The helicopter keeps moving up, and before Harcourt's body breaks the surface, the arm tears away from the torso at the shoulder. Sykes wildly shakes the clinging severed arm from his ankle, and it falls back into the water below. Jetson continues pulling him up into the helicopter as it moves off toward shore.
PILOT: What the hell was that down there? It was weird. Jetson looks at Sykes, wondering if he will say. Sykes looks at Jetson a long moment, then
SYKES: Looked like every other damn slag to me. Just plain ugly. Despite the pain, Jetson smiles.
SYKES: How do I look?
JETSON: You look very good. There's a knock at the door. Sykes opens it. There stands Sykes' daughter, KRISTIN, twenty years old, looking radiant in her wedding dress. She is in a foyer, and behind her is the interior of the church with all the assembled guests, including Mrs. Jetson & son.
KRISTIN: Ready, Daddy.? Sykes' heart melts. Before moving to the door:
SYKES: George, uh. I want to apologize now, in advance, for all the rotten things I'll ever say or do to you over the years. Sykes moves to join his daughter. As he does:
JETSON: That is all right, Matthew. After all, you are only human. Sykes, caught off guard, has to laugh.
SYKES: ( under his breath ) What a wildman. Sykes takes his daughter's arm and the two of them start down the aisle.
THE END: Writers : Rockne O'Bannon James Cameron
