UNTITLED: Cameron Crowe December, 1998
UNTITLED: 1 FADE IN 1 A close-shot of a yellow legal tablet. A young hand comes into frame, holding a pencil. For a few moments, we hear only the soft scratching of pencil on paper, as credits are written in a series of dissolves. The hand carefully erases and corrects an error or two along the way. And then the sound of an old friend. the warm crackle of a vinyl record. as we now hear Alvin and the Chipmunks' "Christmas Song."
ELAINE: Excuse me, I'm a teacher. There is no word in The English Language "Xmas." It's either Merry Christmas. or Happy The Workman nods thanks, with faux appreciation, as Mom turns away. The Workman shares a look with William, who shrugs - that's my Mom.
WILLIAM: - so Livia -
ELAINE: killed everyone off so her son Tiberius could inherit the throne. ( thoughtful pause ) Just like Nixon. William nods, intrigued. He has a good disposition. The world of knowledge engages him, and he loves what it brings out in his Mom. There is a small clatter at the front door, as the girl we've just seen enters, barely brushing some chimes. She silently curses herself. Anita, is that you?
ANITA'S VOICE: Hey Mom! I already ate. Mom moves to the living room to greet William's sister. William peers into the next room.
ELAINE: You sure? I'm making soy cutlets. The words "soy cutlets" sends a small shiver through the girl.
ANITA: I'm fine. Already ate. William stands in the doorway now, watching, monitoring, as Mom moves closer to his sister. She sees something curious about her daughter.
ELAINE: Wait. You've been kissing.
ANITA: ( too quickly ) No I haven't.
ELAINE: ( peering at her lips ) Yes. yes, you have.
ANITA: No I haven't.
ELAINE: Yes you have. I can tell.
ANITA: ( boldly ) You can't tell. Mom steps closer and examines the lips even more carefully. To her, everything is a quest for knowledge.
ELAINE: Not only can I It's Darryl. Anita is stunned silent. She turns slightly to look at herself in a hall mirror, searching for clues, implicating herself And what have you got under your coat? This is the booty Anita didn't want to give up. Mom picks at the corner of an album cover now visible under her jacket. She withdraws the album. It's Simon and Garfunkel's Bookends.
ANITA: ( busted ) It's unfair that we can't listen to our music!
ELAINE: ( weary of the issue ) Honey, it's all about drugs and promiscuous sex.
ANITA: Simon and Garfunkel is poetry!
ELAINE: Yes it's poetry. It's the poetry of drugs and promiscuous sex. Look at the picture on the cover.
ANITA: First it was butter, then sugar and white flour. Bacon. Eggs, bologna, rock and roll, Nearby, William squirms as he watches the gently escalating conversation. Anita glances at her brother. He silently urges her to downshift. She can't. Then it was celebrating Christmas on a day in September When you knew it wouldn't be "commercialized."
ELAINE: That was an experiment. But I understand -
ANITA: What else are you going to ban?
ELAINE: Honey, you want to rebel against I'm trying to give you the Cliff's Notes on how to live in this world.
ANITA: ( simple and direct ) We're like nobody else I know. These are the words that sting Mom most.
ELAINE: I'm a teacher. Why can't I teach my own kids? Use me.
ANITA: Darryl says you use knowledge to keep me down. He says I'm a "yes" person and you're trying to raise us in a "no" environment!
ELAINE: ( immediately, can't help it ) Well, clearly, "no" is a word Darryl doesn't hear much. Anita gasps. Ever the peacemaker, William weighs in. Nearby is a poster - "No More War."
WILLIAM: Everything I say is wrong.
ELAINE: Everything I say is wrong.
ANITA: I can't live here! I hate you! William hates you!
WILLIAM: I don't hate her.
ANITA: ( to William ) You don't even know the truth! William looks vaguely confused.
ELAINE: Sweetheart, don't be a drama queen. Anita takes a breath and then out of her mouth comes the strangled-sounding words of a kid swearing at her parent for the first time.
ANITA: Anita runs down the hall to her room. Elaine turns to William, relating to him more as a fellow parent than a child.
ELAINE: Anita runs down the hall to her room. Elaine turns to William, relating to him more as a fellow parent than a child.
WILLIAM: I think she said
ELAINE: ( sputtering ) What's the difference?
WILLIAM: ( encouraging ) Well. The letter "u". Shot moves in on the kid, as we hear the opening strains of The Moody Blues' "Nights in White Satin."
VOICE: ( louder ) Are you really in our grade? William turns to see tall, adenoidal TIM TOBIN. The most mature looking kid we've seen yet, he challenges William in a loud theatrical tone. It is a voice right out of Guys and Dolls, which incidentally is the school play in which Tobin had just starred. William answers in a respectful voice. He is desperate for acceptance.
WILLIAM: Hey guys! Check it out! William doesn't have any pubes! Others now begin to gather around, examining William. He has never been more naked.
TOBIN: Hey guys! Check it out! William doesn't have any pubes! Others now begin to gather around, examining William. He has never been more naked.
TOBIN: He's not a man, he's a little baby kid. He Doesn't even get zits yet.
TOBIN: ( in loud, funny voice ) Where are your pubes???!! Their voices echo off the tiled walls. Now everyone is watching the hairless William. He is confused by their meanness.
WILLIAM: ( cool, dismissive ) I had 'em. I shaved 'em off. It is a new persona for the kid the witty guy. And it works. Guy #2 cracks up, then others. William's new accuser is suddenly surrounded by the impressed gales of laughter of these older boys. Others turn away, on to other things. Tobin stares at William, and then also turns away.
ELAINE: ( cheerfully, by rote, to William in back ) Put on your seatbelt. I don't want you flying through the windshield. Anita examines her own un-fastened seatbelt, which Mom hasn't We got our annuals today
WILLIAM: We got our annuals today
ELAINE: ( cheerful, automatic ) "Received" your annual.
WILLIAM: ( looking at his photo ) I look so much younger than everyone Enjoy it while you can. Camera drifts from Mom to Anita, who can take it no longer.
ELAINE: Enjoy it while you can. Camera drifts from Mom to Anita, who can take it no longer.
ANITA: Mom. It's
ELAINE: ( pleasant, pointed ) Can this wait until we get home?
ANITA: Tell him how old he is. Mom pulls over, and stares straight ahead with deep irritation.
ELAINE: ( as in "be quiet" ) He knows how old he is.
ANITA: The other kids make fun of him because of How young he looks. Nobody includes They call him "The Narc" behind his back.
WILLIAM: They do?
ELAINE: What's a "Narc?"
ANITA: ( bleeding for her brother ) A Narcotics Officer!
ELAINE: ( ever the peacemaker ) Come on you guys. It's no big deal. I'm 12. It's okay. She skipped me a grade, it's okay. Big deal. I'm a year younger. They're 13, I'm 12 ( beat ) Aren't I? Their silence is eloquent.
WILLIAM: ( ever the peacemaker ) Come on you guys. It's no big deal. I'm 12. It's okay. She skipped me a grade, it's okay. Big deal. I'm a year younger. They're 13, I'm 12 ( beat ) Aren't I? Their silence is eloquent.
ELAINE: ( confessing, in a rush ) I also put you in first grade when you were five and never told you.
WILLIAM: ( trembling ) So. I'm. how old? A heavy quiet. She and his sister ignore him, as they now debate the subject with each other.
ANITA: You lied to him! You make such a big deal about the truth and you lied!
ELAINE: ( that one hurts ) He never asked.
ANITA: What like he's going to ask if he's as old as he thinks he is? Don't you realize, this is going to scar him Honey. sweetheart. don't be Cleopatra. We have to be his mother and his Dad.
ELAINE: Honey. sweetheart. don't be Cleopatra. We have to be his mother and his Dad.
ANITA: You put too much pressure on him!
WILLIAM: ( apprehensive ) How. old.
ANITA: And when he rebels in some strange and odd way, don't blame me.
WILLIAM: . am I?
ELAINE: ( matter of fact ) I skipped you an extra grade. You're ( horrified, voice crackling ) He looks at his body, the information affects him physically. New sounds come from way down deep inside. Mom now begins speed-rapping, trying to stem the leak. She starts the car.
WILLIAM: ( horrified, voice crackling ) He looks at his body, the information affects him physically. New sounds come from way down deep inside. Mom now begins speed-rapping, trying to stem the leak. She starts the car.
ELAINE: So you skipped fifth grade. There's too much padding In the grades. I taught elementary school. 5th grade - unnecessary. Nothing happens in the 5th grade. All Teachers know it, no one talks about it.
WILLIAM: ( still in shock ) E - leven.
ELAINE: And you skipped kindergarten because I taught it to you when you were four.
WILLIAM: ( still horrified, looking This explains. so much.
ANITA: You've robbed him of an adolescence!
ELAINE: Adolescence is a marketing tool.
ANITA: He's got no "crowd". no friends.
WILLIAM: Anita reaches out to her brother. With the compassion of a saint, she offers this:
ANITA: Honey, I know you were expecting puberty. You're just going to have to shine it on for a while. Deeply embarrassed, William shrinks down in the seat. Mom monitors his face constantly. She is raw and sincere. and yes, inspiring:
ELAINE: Who needs a "crowd?" You're unique. You're two years ahead of everybody. Take those extra years and do what you want. Go to Europe for a year! Take a look around, see what you like! Follow your dream! You'll still be the youngest lawyer in the country. Your own great grandfather practiced law until he was 93. Your dad was so proud of you. He knew you were a pronominally accelerated child.
ANITA: What about me?
ELAINE: ( heartbroken, can't help herself ) You're rebellious and ungrateful of my Well, somebody's gotta be normal around ( blinking, still can't believe it ) 11 INT. WILLIAM'S BEDROOM DAY 11 William finishes the last of many candy bars. A mound of wrappers sit just below the mirror. He examines his face hopefully for zits. Nothing coming. We begin to hear Simon and Garfunkel's "America."
ANITA: Well, somebody's gotta be normal around believe it ) 11 INT. WILLIAM'S BEDROOM DAY 11 William finishes the last of many candy bars. A mound of wrappers sit just below the mirror. He examines his face hopefully for zits. Nothing coming. We begin to hear Simon and Garfunkel's "America."
WILLIAM: ( blinking, still can't believe it ) 11 INT. WILLIAM'S BEDROOM DAY 11 William finishes the last of many candy bars. A mound of wrappers sit just below the mirror. He examines his face hopefully for zits. Nothing coming. We begin to hear Simon and Garfunkel's "America."
ANITA: I want to play you a song that explains why I'm leaving, and try to listen.
ELAINE: We can't talk? We have to listen to rock music?
WILLIAM: Take good care of her in San Francisco, Darryl gives the kid a sub-human look. He's invisible, too young to converse with.
ELAINE: How can she leave such a loving family? Anita turns and heads towards them. She focuses on William, placing her hands on his young shoulders. Her face is very close to him now, as she delivers this sage prediction of the One day you'll be cool. He nods stoically, hopefully. He is utterly lost. She leans forward and whispers in his ear. Look under your bed. It'll set you Anita shakes hands with Mom, and exits. As the car takes off:
ANITA: One day you'll be cool. He nods stoically, hopefully. He is utterly lost. She leans forward and whispers in his ear. Look under your bed. It'll set you Anita shakes hands with Mom, and exits. As the car takes off:
ELAINE: She'll be back. In the distance we hear the whoop of her daughter.
ANITA: Maybe not soon. William watches wistfully. He moves away from his mother. She pulls him closer. Shot moves in on his slightly fearful 14 INT. DARRYL'S CAR - DAY 14 Anita looks back at the receding American Gothic-image of her mother and brother. Sister waves to brother. She feels for him. Music now shifts to The Who's "Sparks."
ELAINE: Maybe not soon. William watches wistfully. He moves away from his mother. She pulls him closer. Shot moves in on his slightly fearful 14 INT. DARRYL'S CAR - DAY 14 Anita looks back at the receding American Gothic-image of her mother and brother. Sister waves to brother. She feels for him. Music now shifts to The Who's "Sparks."
LESTER BANGS: What is this hippie station?! Where's Iggy Pop? Don't you have a copy of Raw Power?!
BANGS: Found it!!
BANGS: So you're the one who's been sending me those articles from your school newspaper -
WILLIAM: I've been doing some stuff for a local underground paper, too.
BANGS: What are you like the star of your They hate me.
WILLIAM: They hate me.
BANGS: You'll meet them all again on their long journey to the middle. The kid nods, they walk. Well, your writing is damn good. It's just a shame you missed out on rock and roll.
WILLIAM: I did?
BANGS: Oh yeah. It's over.
WILLIAM: Over. You got here just in time for the death rattle, the last gasp, the last grope.
BANGS: Over. You got here just in time for the death rattle, the last gasp, the last grope.
WILLIAM: Well. At least I'm here for that. Bangs looks at the much smaller kid, shaking his head. It's too late for newcomers. But if the kid's age is an issue, he doesn't mention it. Like a machine-gun:
BANGS: What do you type on?
WILLIAM: Smith-Corona Galaxis Deluxe.
BANGS: You like the new Lou Reed?
WILLIAM: ( automatic ) The early stuff. The new stuff, he's trying to be Bowie, he should be himself. I'm not a big Lou man.
BANGS: Yeah, but if Bowie's doing Lou, and Lou's Doing Bowie, Lou's still doing If you like Lou.
WILLIAM: ( standing his ground ) If you like Lou.
BANGS: Take drugs?
WILLIAM: Smart kid. I used to do speed and sometimes Nyquil and stay up all night writing and writing, like 25 pages of dribble about, you know, the Guess Who, or Coltrane, just to write, you know, with the music blasting.
BANGS: Smart kid. I used to do speed and sometimes Nyquil and stay up all night writing and writing, like 25 pages of dribble about, you know, the Guess Who, or Coltrane, just to write, you know, with the music blasting.
WILLIAM: For a moment, the serious demeanor dissolves and the oddest thing happens. Bangs laughs. It's an odd and charming laugh, the kind a tough guy keeps well-hidden. It surprised the kid, who smiles back. Bangs stops at the corner, and offers a pleasant but very final nod of the head.
BANGS: Well, alright. It's been nice to meet you. I'll see you around. Keep sending me your stuff.
WILLIAM: Okay. See you.
BANGS: I can't stand here all day talking to my many fans.
BANGS: so anyway, you're from San Diego and that's good. Because once you go to L.A., you're gonna have friends like crazy but they'll be fake friends, they're gonna try to corrupt you. The publicists! The bands! You got an honest face, they're gonna tell you everything. But you CANNOT make friends with the rock stars. The kid takes out a green collegiate notebook and gestures can I make a note? Bangs nods. Cannot make friends with the rock stars. ( savage bite ) That's what's important. If you're a rock journalist, a true journalist first you will never get paid much. But you will get free records from the record company. The kid's eyes widen. Bangs, in direct conflict with his brutal writing style, is looking suspiciously like a compassionate And they'll buy you drinks, you'll meet girls. they'll try to fly you places for free.. offer you drugs. I know. It sounds great. But they are not your friends. These are people who want you to write sanctimonious stories about the genius of the rock stars and they will ruin rock and roll and strangle everything we love about it. Privately, William thrills. We. Our. It all sounds great to him. He listens to the grouping of the words, every one of them. He madly scribbles. They are trying to buy respectability for a form that is gloriously and righteously - The kid leans forward as Lester finds the right word. - dumb! And you're smart enough to know that. And the day it ceases to be dumb is the day it ceases to be real. Right? And then it will just Become an Industry of Cool.
WILLIAM: . Industry. of. cool.
BANGS: happening right now. I'm telling you, you're coming along at a very dangerous time for rock and roll. The war is over. They won. 99% of what passes for rock now. SILENCE is much more compelling. It's over. I think you should turn around and go back and be. a lawyer or something. but I can see from your face that you won't. I can pay you thirty-five bucks. Gimme a thousand words on Black Sabbath.
WILLIAM: ( attempting cool ) An assignment.
LESTER: Yeah. And you should build your reputation on being honest. and Honest. unmerciful.
WILLIAM: ( writing in notebook ) Honest. unmerciful.
BANGS: And if you get into a jam call me. I stay up late. Bangs reaches across the table, and William watches as he scribbles his number on the back of the kid's green collegiate notebook. The notebook has just become valuable. They sit together, listening to the beautiful and compelling silence.
ELAINE: Look at this. An entire generation of Cinderellas and there's no slipper William looks out the window at the sign: TONIGHT - SOLD OUT - BLACK SABBATH with special guest Stillwater.
WILLIAM: You can drop me off here.
ELAINE: Black. Sabbath. Just remember - you wanted to be Atticus Finch in To Kill a Mockingbird. The kid doesn't answer. He silently goes over his questions. As long as I know this is just a hobby, I'll go along with it.
WILLIAM: All I have to do is what Lester Bangs said.
ELAINE: ( dryly ) I'll be waiting right here at eleven 'o clock sharp. If you get lost, use the family whistle. He unhooks his seatbelt, stuffs his questions into an orange canvas shoulder-bag and exits. Elaine watches her son disappearing into the stony rock-concert crowd. It's a windy night. Everything about this image troubles her. She fights with herself, and then uses the family whistle immediately. He turns. ( sweetly, too loud ) Don't take drugs!! Fifteen concert-goers turn around instinctively, at the sound of a Mother, and then identify William as the object of her concern. All around him, we hear:
WILLIAM: Hi. I'm William Miller and I'm here from Creem Magazine to interview the band Black Sabbath. Scotty, immediately suspicious, moves to a nearby podium and snaps through three clipboard pages. He moves back to the door and grabs the handle.
SCOTTY: Not on the list. He shuts the door with finality. The kid stands silently for a moment. He looks over his shoulder, at two chattering Groupies watching his dilemma from the top of the ramp. They look at him sympathetically, but he turns away. William rings the buzzer again, withdrawing a copy of Creem from his bag. The door opens.
WILLIAM: Sir, I'm a journalist, and here's a copy of the magazine. The magazine hangs in mid-air.
SCOTTY: top of the ramp with the girls! Slam. William stands there for a moment. Unsure of what to do next, he looks back to the top of the ramp. Rejected by him just moments earlier, the groupies now feign disinterest. Bracing himself, William rings again. The door opens slowly this time. Scotty stands peering at him.
WILLIAM: ( in a rush ) the-ramp with-the-gi - Slam. Lock.
ESTRELLA: Who are
WILLIAM: ( embarrassed to be alive ) Me? I'm with myself.
ESTRELLA: No, who are you
WILLIAM: I'm here to interview Black Sabbath. I'm a journalist. I'm not a. you Estrella stares at him. Moving into the parking lot light, introducing herself, is a luminous girl in a green faux-fur trimmed coat. This is PENNY LANE. There is an inviting warmth and real interest in the way she asks:
PENNY LANE: . you're not a
WILLIAM: ( enthralled ) Oh. I'm just. not a. you know.
PENNY LANE: Not a "what"?
WILLIAM: ( charmed ) You know. A "groupie." The two girls are deeply insulted by the word.
ESTRELLA: Sorry, I -
WILLIAM: Sorry, I -
PENNY LANE: We. Are not. "Groupies." Estrella indicates Penny with great reverence.
ESTRELLA: This is Penny steps closer, focusing completely on the kid. Behind her, concert-goers throw a few woo-woos their way. She seems not to hear them.
WILLIAM: Penny steps closer, focusing completely on the kid. Behind her, concert-goers throw a few woo-woos their way. She seems not to hear them.
PENNY LANE: "Groupies" sleep with rock stars because they want to be near someone famous. We are here because of the music. We are Band Aids.
ESTRELLA: She used to run a school for Band Aids.
PENNY LANE: We don't have guys. We support the music. We inspire the music. We are here because of the William is nodding like a doll in a dashboard window. Marc Bolan broke her heart, man. It's It's a long story. I'm retired now. I'm just visiting friends.
ESTRELLA: Marc Bolan broke her heart, man. It's It's a long story. I'm retired now. I'm just visiting friends.
PENNY LANE: It's a long story. I'm retired now. I'm just visiting friends.
ESTRELLA: She said "no more sex, no more exploiting our bodies and hearts. "
WILLIAM: Right. Right.
ESTRELLA: ". just blow-jobs, and
WILLIAM: Okay. Well, see, now I get the Shot drifts off him and picks up, out of the darkness, another breathless girl teetering on tall shoes. She is in the vicinity of 16. Her black hair is cropped short and died red, just like the cover of Bowie's Aladdin Sane. She is POLEXIA, the voluptuous one, from Riverside.
POLEXIA: ( the usual greeting ) It's all happening. It's all happening.
ESTRELLA: Polexia!! Did you tell Sabbath we were going to be here?
POLEXIA: I talked to Dick with Stillwater, I talked with Sabbath. They're all dying to see us. It's all happening.
PENNY LANE: This is our journalist friend. Journalist Friend, meet Estrella Starr, and Polexia Aphrodisia. And you are
WILLIAM: Silent beat. His name lands like a thud.
POLEXIA: Here comes Sabbath!
ESTRELLA: Ozzy!!! Tony!!! It's us!! A long black limo with darkened windows swishes past, beeps twice. The metal backstage gate rises and the limo rolls inside. And then silence again. The girls do not discuss being rebuffed. I think I saw Sapphire in there.
POLEXIA: ( can't hold it in any longer ) Okay. I was with Ian Hunter all night at Rodney's Last night. Wanna see his spoo? I saved it in a baggie. She opens her purse and shows the girls something inside. William edges away.
ESTRELLA: ( peering into purse ) I'm really happy he's doing so well.
PENNY: ( regarding what's in purse ) Yeah. I know he's such a talented guy. I mean, look at him. Who deserves it more?
POLEXIA: ( looking in purse ) Nobody he's so sweet.
ESTRELLA: ( with compassion ) Don't you just root for him, you know. To go that little distance between good and great?
PENNY: Wait. That's not his. I would know A very odd look on his face, William now cranes for a discreet look. What's in that purse?
SAPPHIRE: ( as they turn ) Come and GET 'EM! The girls scream and happily head down the ramp to Sapphire. Penny looks back and grabs William with a well-placed arm hooked around his. He joins the clacking sea of legs moving down the ramp. Sapphire slaps passes on the girls. As Scotty ( The Keeper of the Backstage List ) watches, Penny now slips William forward for a pass.
SCOTTY: Oh no. Not this one
SAPPHIRE: ( off William ) Who brought Opie? The kid looks over his shoulder. Who's Opie?
PENNY: He's with us.
SCOTTY: ( hand blocking William ) He wasn't with you.
SAPPHIRE: ( to Scotty ) Are you going to turn this into a All of you can wait outside! Top of the ramp!
SCOTTY: All of you can wait outside! Top of the ramp!
WILLIAM: I don't want to cause a Thing. I'll I'll go take care of this. Sadly, they leave him behind. The thundering arena sound of the collecting crowd, the p.a. system blasting Yes' "Roundabout". purposeful roadies carrying guitar cases. the glimpse of backstage rock and roll. everything he wants to be a part of is on the other side of this door. And then it shuts. He stands alone. At the top of the ramp, a tour bus unloads. It reads STILLWATER TOUR 73. Moving loudly out of the bus is the opening band. This is Stillwater. Four road-weary band members, and their road manager. Voices booming. RUSSELL HAMMOND, 27, presses the buzzer with the nose of his guitar-case. It's obvious from moment one. This is the star of the band, the charismatic one. He's tired. They're late. William recognizes him instantly, as the guitarist stretches. The buzzer goes unanswered. The kid is invisible to him, as the others now arrive behind Russell. Tour/band manager DICK ROSWELL, 27, follows, loudly banging on the steel door. He has the flaxen-haired look of a former hippie, but he carries the emblem of a real pro the newest silver Halliburton briefcase covered with backstage passes. His direction is always - forward.
PENNY: ( privately, to William ) I'll go take care of this. Sadly, they leave him behind. The thundering arena sound of the collecting crowd, the p.a. system blasting Yes' "Roundabout". purposeful roadies carrying guitar cases. the glimpse of backstage rock and roll. everything he wants to be a part of is on the other side of this door. And then it shuts. He stands alone. At the top of the ramp, a tour bus unloads. It reads STILLWATER TOUR 73. Moving loudly out of the bus is the opening band. This is Stillwater. Four road-weary band members, and their road manager. Voices booming. RUSSELL HAMMOND, 27, presses the buzzer with the nose of his guitar-case. It's obvious from moment one. This is the star of the band, the charismatic one. He's tired. They're late. William recognizes him instantly, as the guitarist stretches. The buzzer goes unanswered. The kid is invisible to him, as the others now arrive behind Russell. Tour/band manager DICK ROSWELL, 27, follows, loudly banging on the steel door. He has the flaxen-haired look of a former hippie, but he carries the emblem of a real pro the newest silver Halliburton briefcase covered with backstage passes. His direction is always - forward.
DICK: Let us in, we're Stillwater! We're on the show!! William is surrounded by them now. They stand together under the single lightbulb, familiar faces, a live-action album cover. JEFF BEBE the singer, his shiny black hair hanging in sheets around his head. ED VALLENCOURT the quiet drummer, his long arms hanging limply at his sides. His is a face made for the background. LARRY TURNER the compact bass-player. Dick now kicks at the door with his foot, as William produces a copy of Creem Magazine.
WILLIAM: ( to Dick ) Hi, I'm a journalist. I write for Creem Once again, the magazine hangs there. He can't give it away.
JEFF: The enemy! A rock writer!
WILLIAM: ( struggling forward ) I'd like to interview you or someone from the band.
DICK: ( busy, running behind ) I'm sorry but could you please fuck William blinks a little, takes it in stride. Russell sizes him up, moving in the background.
WILLIAM: Okay. Okay. I could do that.
JEFF: You guys You're all just frustrated musicians. Do you know what your magazine SAID about us? What was it - "the singer's incessant cater walling distracts From an assault with no clear purpose."
LARRY: ( in background ) That was Rolling Stone.
RUSSELL: Yeah. Okay. Fuck off anyway. We play for fans, not critics. Stung, William shrugs. It's been a terrible night, but at least thrillingly so.
WILLIAM: Russell. Jeff. Ed. Larry. I really love your band. I think the song "Fever Dog" is a big step forward for you guys. I think you guys producing it yourselves, instead of Glyn Johns, was the right thing to do. And the guitar sound was incendiary. Way to go. He turns and leaves, beginning his long trek back up the ramp. Russell looks at the others. That kind of love is hard to give up.
RUSSELL: ( good humored, yelling ) Well don't stop there.
JEFF: Yeah, come back here!! Keep going! They wave him back, as the backstage door opens again. The kid moves back down the ramp. They herd him in with them, through the door. Scotty quickly spots the kid and squares Russell notes the kid's swirling emotional state, shoves him Not this one.
SCOTTY: Not this one.
RUSSELL: He's with us.
SCOTTY: He's not on the list. He's not coming in. And this is my arena. And furthermore - Russel craves the confrontation and moves forward closer to - have a good time tonight. Welcome to San Diego.
RUSSELL: Red Dog!
RED DOG: We're playing here tomorrow night.
JEFF: ( aside, to the kid ) This is Red Dog, the Allman Brothers Band's number one roadie. Russel clamps an arm around Red Dog's neck.
RUSSELL: How're the guys?
RED DOG: Havin a ball, man. When we have a party, we have an Allman Brothers Band party. Everybody boogies. Everybody gets off. It's family, man. We all got These now. on forearm ) We'll see you guys in Boston, right? Dicky and Gregg send you their love. Camera catches flash of envy on the face of Jeff Bebe, as Stillwater sweeps forward into a small dressing room.
RUSSELL: . and it's roll is a LIFESTYLE. and a way of thinking and it's not about money and Jeff sprays some shaving cream into his palm, and rubs it into his scalp - poor man's mousse.
JEFF: Jeff sprays some shaving cream into his palm, and rubs it into his scalp - poor man's mousse.
RUSSELL: - but it's a voice that says am. and FUCK YOU if you can't understand me. Russell smooths the strings of his guitar with a small cloth from his guitar case. The kid notices all these close-up details of rock. And one of those people is gonna save the world and that means that ROCK AND ROLL CAN SAVE THE WORLD all of us together. The kid's eyes dance. He checks to make sure he's getting the recording. He listens intently.
JEFF: And the chicks are great.
RUSSELL: But we didn't do it for that! We are here because we needed to fuckin be here, not just 'cause we needed to away from Troy, Michigan, WHICH WE DID. but what it all comes down to is that thing. The Indefinable Thing, when people catch something from your music, the thing you put into it. I'm talking about. what am I talking The buzz?
WILLIAM: ( elegantly ) The buzz?
RUSSELL: THE BUZZ! And the chicks, the whatever, is an off-shoot of THE BUZZ. And like you saying you liked "Fever Dog?" That is the fucking buzz, man. All we get are these fucking old-ass interviewers who don't understand, don't LISTEN, don't appreciate why we are here, which is the fuckin' BUZZ. William nods, holds his microphone steady. Russell tunes his guitar, ripping through unamplified guitar licks as he speaks. Jeff hustles to reclaim his own connection to the interviewer.
JEFF: The next album will be even better. More texture.
RUSSELL: But. it's not what you put in, is it? It's what you leave out. Listen to. listen to Marvin Gaye. Russell's face grows rapturous as he discusses this piece of A song like "What's Going On." That single "woo" at the end of the second verse - you know that woo - that single I know that, "woo."
WILLIAM: ( proudly ) I know that, "woo."
RUSSELL: ( he does it ) That's what you remember. The silly things, the little things. there's only one, and it makes the song. It's what you leave out. That's rock and William nods, says nothing, keeps the microphone pointed. Activity surrounds him.
JEFF: ( impressed ) We used to talk more about this stuff.
RUSSELL: Okay. See, this is maybe the most honest we've ever been in an interview because you know our music. You're the first press guy we've made friends with. We don't normally talk like this to them. And you're supposed to be The Enemy! What are you - 18?
WILLIAM: There you go. Still young enough to be honest.
RUSSELL: There you go. Still young enough to be honest.
DICK: ( walkie talkie crackling ) Ten minutes 'till showtime, anyone who isn't in the band out! Russell takes a last swig of beer. A roadie whisks his guitar All this luggage is going to L.A.! William is swept out in the chaos of the pre-show ritual, past the pile of luggage by the door. It's a colorful heap of suitcases, featuring colorful laminated band tags, each with a 29 INT. BACKSTAGE STEPS NIGHT MINUTES LATER 29 William sits on the backstage steps, writing feverishly in his notebook. Behind him, two steps higher, Penny Lane scoots into place.
PENNY LANE: I found you a pass.
WILLIAM: ( amped, distracted ) Thanks. I got in with Stillwater. ( as he writes ) The guitarist, Russel Hammond, he just thoroughly opened up. He is by far the best and most honest interview I've ever done. ( she nods ) I've only done two, but you know. He's number one.
PENNY LANE: You're learning. They're much more fun on the way up. William nods, still scribbling. She eases down into place on the step next to him. Her proximity cause him to look at her, his eyebrows rising. She smooths them down with two single How old are you?
WILLIAM: PENNY LANE Me too. ( beat ) How old are we really?
PENNY LANE: Me too. How old are we really?
WILLIAM: PENNY LANE Me too.
PENNY LANE: Me too.
WILLIAM: Actually I'm 16.
PENNY LANE: Me too. Isn't it just sounds Different.
WILLIAM: ( confesses ) I'm 15.
PENNY LANE: You want to know how old I really am?
WILLIAM: ( immediately ) She looks upstairs, soaking in the sound of another band tuning up. Music is her religion. How did you get started in all this?
PENNY LANE: It's a long story.
WILLIAM: ( quick study ) Right. Right.
PENNY LANE: We live in the same city. We should be friends. She takes his backstage pass form his shirt and puts it on his thigh - the cooler location. Nearby, the dressing room door opens, and the Stillwater exits. Excitement level rises as they mass in the hallway with instruments. We hear the amped voice of Russell growing nearer.
RUSSELL: The Enemy! He approaches, as William stands. Penny watches, hanging out of Russell's eyesight. Standing in the supercharged hallway, the kid is anxious to introduce his new friends.
WILLIAM: Russell, this is Penny Lane.
PENNY LANE: ( stepping into view ) Penny Lane? Like the song, right?
RUSSELL: Penny Lane? Like the song, right?
PENNY LANE: Have we met?
THEY SHAKE: And do not let go, for too long. There is history in their shake. Their eyes tell all. Shot takes us to William, who puts two and two together. It isn't hard. They clearly know each other. Well.
WILLIAM: Well, I guess you've. you've met.
DICK: Penny Lane! God's gift to rock and roll!! You're back! Marc Bolan. Please. Other band members pass, adjusting clothes for show time, waiting in the hallway. and now singing the Beatles song "Penny Lane."
RUSSELL: Come on, let's go. Both of you.
RUSSELL: - get in the huddle. Russell pulls William into the band's huddle.
DICK: From Troy, Michigan. Please welcome Light hits the stage, and the band launches into their opening song, "If You Say Nothing." Audience response is strong. Shot lingers on the face of William as he soaks in the most undeniably exciting moment of any concert, the first thirty Jeff the singer grabs the microphone and launches into some vocal pyrotechnics. Russell looks over to Penny and William, at stage right, grinning, pretending to trip on his cord, an elegant show-off move of a musician who is now where he belongs. before seriously stepping forward for the first guitar lead of the night. The kid looks over to see Penny watching Russell.
RUSSELL: ( privately ) So. You want to come up to L.A., we'll be at the "Riot House" all week.
WILLIAM: "The Riot House?"
RUSSELL: The Continental Hyatt House! It's on Sunset Strip.
WILLIAM: ( attempting cool ) Right. Right. All the while, just over the kid's shoulder, Russell scans the backstage crowd of hangers-on. Looking perhaps for Penny Lane.
DICK: Let's blow this burg!
RUSSELL: ( exiting ) Well tell your friend Miss Penny Lane to Call Me. Tell her "It ain't California without her. We want her around like last summer." Say it like that.
WILLIAM: Got it.
RUSSELL: ( returns, whispers ) Oh, I'm under the name - Harry Houdini.
JEFF: ( exiting, to William ) The Enemy!! Yeah!! Come to L.A., we'll take some more. Russell joins Jeff, exiting and laughing. A good show is still in the air.
WILLIAM: Later Jeff! See you, Dick. Larry. Mick, Gregg, Red Dog, Scully, Frosty, Estrella, The Wheel!
WILLIAM: ( calming him ) Hey. Hey. Be cool.
PENNY!: ( calming him ) Hey. Hey. Be cool.
PENNY: ( calming him ) Hey. Hey. Be cool.
WILLIAM: You just missed Russell! He says he's at the "Riot House" all week and to call him. He's under the name Harry Houdini. Do you know about the "Riot House?"
PENNY LANE: I think I've heard of it.
WILLIAM: He had a message for you! He said, "It's not California without you. We want you around like last summer." Actually he said "ain't." "It ain't California - "
PENNY LANE: I get the gist.
WILLIAM: How well do you guys know each other? She smiles privately. I got it. No problem. Long story. Alright! I gotta go. Elsewhere in the arena, Black Sabbath is performing "Sweet Leaf." The kid could care less. He has bonded with Stillwater. He heads for the door. Penny walks with him. He's loving it. They pass a still-scowling Scotty, flashing passes, as they exit out into the ramp area.
PENNY LANE: Call me if you need a rescue. We live in the same city.
WILLIAM: I think I live in a different world. They stand in the night air. The parking lot is largely silent now, save for the thudding bass sounds of Black Sabbath. In the distance, we hear Elaine's insistent whistle.
PENNY: Speaking of the world. I've made a I'm going to live in Morocco for one year. I need a new crowd. He nods. He is a rapt audience for this flashy girl. Do you want to come?
WILLIAM: In the distance, we hear the family whistle growing louder.
PENNY: It's a plan. You've got to call me.
WILLIAM: It's all happening.
PENNY: It's all happening.
WILLIAM: It's all happening. He nods cooly. He waits until she turns, and the sprints through the parking lot, to the distant family whistle.
WILLIAM: Hey Darryl.
DARRYL: Darryl climbs in the window, looks around the room that was once the site of his previous glory.
WILLIAM: Yeah. She and Mom are still sorta. I'd say "not speaking," but I don't know if they ever did.
DARRYL: Your sister. A stewardess. The things your sister and I did inside these four walls.
WILLIAM: That's okay. I don't want to know. It's my room now.
DARRYL: We flew the friendly skies -
WILLIAM: I don't want to put you in the middle of anything. We don't have to talk about it.
DARRYL: I don't want to put you in the middle of anything. We don't have to talk about it.
WILLIAM: You seem cooler.
DARRYL: You seem cooler.
WILLIAM: Yeah. I'm thinking about going to Lemme know if you need a little help with your Mom.
DARRYL: Lemme know if you need a little help with your Mom.
WILLIAM: A little might not be enough.
DARRYL: She still freaks me out.
WILLIAM: ( nods, an old issue ) Yeah -
DARRYL: She's famous.
WILLIAM: Listen -
DARRYL: Go ahead and do what you were doing. I just wanna hang in here for a moment.
WILLIAM: Cool. Alright. William nods and continues his work, self-consciously, as Darryl sits on his bed and soaks in the memories of the room. A long moment passes. Darryl pats his thighs, and rises.
DARRYL: Okay, man.
WILLIAM: Okay, man.
ELAINE: I worry about the drunk drivers.
WILLIAM: Mom. I'm 15. Yes, you're 15. "And here's that money I owed you." She reaches in a small box near the door, gives him twenty bucks. It's their routine. Your dad's favorite joke. I don't do it as well.
ELAINE: Yes, you're 15. "And here's that money I owed you." She reaches in a small box near the door, gives him twenty bucks. It's their routine. Your dad's favorite joke. I don't do it as well.
WILLIAM: I thought it was pretty good.
ELAINE: Keep the small bills on the outside. And call me if anyone gets drunk.
WILLIAM: I will call you if anyone anywhere gets drunk.
ELAINE: ( anticipating her, like a parent ) And don't take drugs.
WILLIAM: ( anticipating her, like a parent ) And don't take drugs.
ELAINE: ( stoic ) Ha ha. Very funny. See sense of humor. Have fun at the dance. I'm glad you're making friends. They move to the door, and he steadies her, as if to remind her she's not going. He opens the door. She's a wreck, and she knows it.
WILLIAM: Yeah -
ELAINE: Yeah -
WILLIAM: ( loving but firm, as if to a dog. ) Oh. okay.
ELAINE: Oh. okay.
WILLIAM: He opens the door. Neil Young. "Sugar Mountain." Watching him leave is always a killer. She's not getting any better at it either. She folds her arms tightly across her chest.
PENNY LANE: The Continental Hyatt House. Also known as The Riot House. Every band stays here, all the ones that matter. The Who. Zeppelin. Alice. Bowie. English bands. American bands. We all know each other. Twenty- four hour room service. Like us, they were outsiders. They were so outside, they're inside, and insiders never even knew it, because they're outsiders and they are inside a place outsiders will never be. And why are we even talking about it? If you're really an insider, you're never gonna say it. You know what I mean?
WILLIAM: ( beat, working it out ) Yeah. Yes. She makes a swift turn into a secret parking spot near the And we're Russell. You can, but not me.
PENNY: And we're Russell. You can, but not me.
WILLIAM: What is it with you and Russell?
PENNY LANE: It's all happening. And I'm about to use you as protection.
PENNY LANE: ( aside ) These guys are with Alice Cooper. I'm going to pretend I don't know them.
PENNY LANE: I'm just showing my very dear, very wonderful friend around. He's a very important writer - he knows Lester I'm responsible for his moral conduct while he's abroad.
PENNY LANE: I'm retired. And don't argue with me!
PENNY LANE: ( moving, English accent ) Have we met? Effortlessly touching an arm here and there, charming all - she had four men suddenly circling her. I've made a decision. I'm going to go traveling in India. Then I'm going to learn how to play the violin. Then I'm going to go to college for one William looks at her, perplexed and a little hurt. What about ( exiting, not buying it ) There's nothing they could teach you in college, darling. ( whispers ) Call Alice. He's under the name Bob I heard you were with Russell from Lusty laughs circle William. Overlapping this dialogue is the appearance of our friend Polexia.
PENNY: Lusty laughs circle William. Overlapping this dialogue is the appearance of our friend Polexia.
POLEXIA: ( in tears, in pieces, emotional ) Ian Hunter is a fucking asshole!
WILLIAM: She hugs him like a long-lost friend, knocking the air out of him. And now overlapping this action, appears Superfan RIC NUNEZ, 14. His eyes are forever moist, but he's oddly formal and never feels worthy of the rockers he idolizes. Tonight he wears a custom homemade t-shirt with iron-on block letters. It features the four Led Zeppelin symbols and the words: "TO BE A ROCK AND NOT TO ROLL." A felt-tip pen is still in his quivering hand. Nunez walks with them, backpedaling as he says:
POLEXIA: She hugs him like a long-lost friend, knocking the air out of him. And now overlapping this action, appears Superfan RIC NUNEZ, 14. His eyes are forever moist, but he's oddly formal and never feels worthy of the rockers he idolizes. Tonight he wears a custom homemade t-shirt with iron-on block letters. It features the four Led Zeppelin symbols and the words: "TO BE A ROCK AND NOT TO ROLL." A felt-tip pen is still in his quivering hand. Nunez walks with them, backpedaling as he says:
RIC: It's all happening. I just saw them on the seventh floor! Mr. Jimmy Page. Mr. John Paul Jones. Mr. Robert Plant signed my shirt in the elevator!! Five minutes ago, he touched this pen. Please don't smear it. And Bonzo's gotta new motorcycle in the hotel!
PENNY: Ric is a Zeppelin fan.
WILLIAM: Yeah, I picked that up.
PENNY: He tours with them, but not "with" They're on the 12th floor, but there's guards there! So you gotta go to the tenth floor and go up the back steps.
RIC: They're on the 12th floor, but there's guards there! So you gotta go to the tenth floor and go up the back steps.
PENNY LANE: This is my very dear, very close, very wonderful friend William Miller, he is very close with Lester Bangs.
RIC: It's all happening!! See you in Ric rushes back to the elevators.
PENNY LANE: I'm retired! Doesn't anybody believe 39 INT. HYATT HOUSE LOBBY PHONE NIGHT MINUTES LATER 39 Penny nearby as William picks up the house phone. He shouts over the din.
WILLIAM: Harry Houdini, please. As he waits, he discreetly pockets the matches, hotel pad and pencil next to the housephone.
PENNY LANE: Okay. Time to put on the lampshade. Up ahead, the door to their smallish hotel room is open. Inside, a band party in full swing. A clunky early-model boom box segues from James Brown's "Make It Funky" to Led Zeppelin's "Gallows Pole." Russell Hammond is the center of this party, jabbing out the chords, playing along on guitar. Much singing echoes all around. It's a hotel-room Hootenanny, and all members of the band are present. Penny Lane takes a breath and enters, with arms extended and pointing in opposite directions. She does a flawless stewardess imitation, with proper hand gestures, to a loud party ovation. "Ladies and Gentlemen. Please extinguish all smoking materials and notice that the captain has turned on The No Smoking sign. Your seat and tray tables should be locked in their full and upright positions."
RUSSELL: ( impressed to see him ) ( happy to be there ) Russell places a beer in William's hands, and exits.
WILLIAM: ( happy to be there ) Russell places a beer in William's hands, and exits.
PENNY LANE: ( continuing ) "In the unlikely event of a water landing, the seat below you will serve as a -" ( give up ) Oh, the hell with it. They all applaud her, laughing. William watches her with wonder, as she turns his way and winks. Jeff approaches the alluring Polexia, and goes to get her a beer. Meanwhile, Polexia sidles up to William. She sees him watching Penny at the other side of the room.
POLEXIA: ( privately ) Act One, in which she pretends she doesn't care about him. POV shot travels to Russell, strumming the guitar that is always a part of his body. Russell is watching Penny Lane Act Two, in which he pretends he doesn't care. and goes right for her. Russell moves towards Penny. Act Three, in which it all plays out the way she planned it. She'll eat him alive.
WILLIAM: ( worried ) We've got to stop them.
POLEXIA: Stop them? You were her excuse for coming here.
ON PENNY: I need ice! Penny disappears out the door, across the hallway. Russell follows a moment later. The kid's eyebrows rise. Polexia regards the kid with affection, adjusting his collar and peeling a hair off his jacket.
PENNY: I need ice! Penny disappears out the door, across the hallway. Russell follows a moment later. The kid's eyebrows rise. Polexia regards the kid with affection, adjusting his collar and peeling a hair off his jacket.
POLEXIA: I just worry about people using her. You know? 'Cause she brings out the good side in everybody else, but what do they do for her? Life kills me. Do you have any pot?
WILLIAM: Not on me.
POLEXIA: Do you smoke?
WILLIAM: ( attempting to fit in ) But I. I grow it. I grow it. Polexia looks at the kid, laughing at his poor job of lying.
POLEXIA: You're funny. You know, if you were only taller, English, rich, a guitar- player and older.
WILLIAM: I'd be someone else.
POLEXIA: Yeah. Good point. Jeff appears with her beer, and she whispers in the kid's ear before she exits with Jeff Bebe. Bless me father for I may sin tonight. The kid watches, as the boom box plays an obscure favorite of Russell's, Eddie Giles' "Losin' Boy." There is the sound of a motorcycle somewhere down the hallway.
PENNY: ( with real indignation ) How does it end?
RUSSELL: You know - the story about the girl who dumps the guy who has an ex-ex wife the one we don't talk about and gets a hundred. okay, five letters from him, and then doesn't even leave a pass in San Diego. Wake up! I'm retired and I never believed you anyway. You're too talented and too good-looking to be trusted and everybody knows it.
PENNY: You know - the story about the girl who dumps the guy who has an ex-ex wife the one we don't talk about and gets a hundred. okay, five letters from him, and then doesn't even leave a pass in San Diego. Wake up! I'm retired and I never believed you anyway. You're too talented and too good-looking to be trusted and everybody knows it.
RUSSELL: ( smiling, loves it ) You're retired like Frank Sinatra is She makes a scoffing noise. He moves to the ice machine, with a glass of his own. Miss Penny Lane. Let me tell you what rock and Roll will miss the day you truly retire. He tosses cubes in his glass, one by one. After the first cube: The way you turn a hotel room into a ( cube ) The way you pick up strays wherever you go. Like Pied Piper. ( cube ) The way you know the words to every song. Every song. Especially the bad ones. Mostly the bad ones. ( cube ) That green coat in the middle of summer. ( cube ) The real name you won't reveal. ( cube ) And. I'd keep going, but my glass if ( quietly ) He kisses her powerfully, hands at his sides. She fights to keep her hands off him. Bonham's motorcycle rips by, just outside the door.
PENNY: ( quietly ) He kisses her powerfully, hands at his sides. She fights to keep her hands off him. Bonham's motorcycle rips by, just outside the door.
RUSSELL: Come to Arizona.
PENNY: We leave Thursday morning. 9 AM. And pack light this time. Jesus. They kiss. The motorcycle speeds by again, just outside.
RUSSELL: We leave Thursday morning. 9 AM. And pack light this time. Jesus. They kiss. The motorcycle speeds by again, just outside.
WILLIAM: This is he.
BEN: Crazy. William, this is Ben Fong- Torres. I'm the music editor at Rolling Stone Magazine. We've got a copy of your stories from the San Diego Door. This is the same William Miller? William instantly, nervously alters his voice to sound older.
WILLIAM: Yes it is.
BEN: ( rifling through tearsheets ) Voice of God, howling dogs, the spirit of rock And roll. this is good solid ( immediately, suddenly deeper ) Thanks. thanks.
WILLIAM: ( immediately, suddenly deeper ) Thanks. thanks.
BEN: You should be writing for us. Any How about Stillwater?
WILLIAM: ( voice now to deep ) How about Stillwater?
BEN: Crazy. New album. their third. starting to do something. Ben shuffles through papers, looking for a tour itinerary on his promotional-material laden-desk, automatically plotting the piece aloud. Stillwater. Hard-working band makes good. Get 'em to respond to the critics who dismissed the first two albums as workmanlike. Guitarist is the clear star of the band. Crazy. Let's do three- thousand words. You'll catch up to them on the road. We'll set up billing don't let the band pay for anything.
WILLIAM: ( affecting casualness ) Sounds good.
BEN: We can only pay lemme see, three- thousand words seven hundred dollars. The kid's eyes widen. Alright, a grand. What's your background? You a journalism major?
WILLIAM: ( deeply ) What college
BEN: What college
ELAINE: Honey, I need you to do that thing that fixes the garbage disposal She hangs up.
BEN: Well, I know how don't Snap to it -
WILLIAM: Crazy! I'll let you go. Call me at the San Francisco office tomorrow.
BEN: Crazy! I'll let you go. Call me at the San Francisco office tomorrow.
LESTER BANGS: will change your story, they'll re- write it and turn it into swill. But besides that, what would be wrong with it?
WILLIAM: But besides that, what would be wrong with it?
LESTER BANGS: ( laughs, entertained ) You have starry eyes, my friend. ( beat ) Look. Do the story. It's a good break for ya. But remember this The kid listens intently, and makes notes. . don't do it to make friends with people who are trying to use you to further the big business desire to glorify worthless rock stars like Stillwater. And don't let those swill merchants re-write you.
WILLIAM: ( still copying ) . swill merchants.
LESTER BANGS: 45 EXT. TEACHER'S LOUNGE DAY 45 William knocks on the teacher's lounge door. A Teacher answers, protective of their sanctuary.
WILLIAM: ( urgently ) I need to talk to Mrs. Deegan, from Mrs. Deegan appears in the doorway.
ELAINE: Whatever it is, the answer is no.
MRS. DEEGAN: Elaine, we need to talk to you. Nothing is wrong. I am a teacher. You're a teacher. We speak the same Mom sits down. She is fully engaged and worried, her natural Now I'm not a jump-up-and-down person, but something wondrous has happened to William. And you have every reason to be happy. . and calm. Carefully gauging Elaine's face, the teacher continues. William has been gifted with a shining opportunity in the world of journalism. Through a love of music, and at an oddly-young age, he has received a major assignment from a national publication called Rolling Stone Magazine. Mrs. Deegan produces a copy, and places it on Elaine's lap. It sits there like the plague. Now you are rather famously not a fan of rock music, but such are the ironies of life, that happens to be the very topic of William's assignment - - rock music. A band.
ELAINE: ( warily, to Darryl ) Honey, what are you doing here?
DARRYL: Moral support. Mom looks evenly at her son, seated opposite her in this small living room.
ELAINE: What's involved?
MRS. DEEGAN: Well. It's a great opportunity. He'll be well-paid, and published nationally and he'll go on tour with a rock band for four days. No small planes. he travels on a bus.
ELAINE: Is it time for me to say something?
MRS. DEEGAN: MRS. DEEGAN And in anticipation of that response -
ELAINE: MRS. DEEGAN And in anticipation of that response -
MRS. DEEGAN: And in anticipation of that response -
ELAINE: MRS. DEEGAN William has prepared
MRS. DEEGAN: William has prepared
ELAINE: ( rueful ) "Lo, that which I have feared has come upon me."
WILLIAM: ( lightening fast ) "He who jealously guards his fears, quietly yearns to bring them about!" Mrs. Deegan admires their high-strung intellectual parrying, makes an impressed noise.
ELAINE: ( with compassion ) No. I have raised him to be an honor student, which he is. We have agreed on all our goals. We raised him to be a lawyer, we moved here to be near the finest law school in the West. Plus, he has finals coming up, and in one week he graduates with all his friends
DARRYL: He's got no friends!!
WILLIAM: Darryl. Please. Nearby, having anticipated all of the above, William nods to Mrs. Deegan, and stands.
MRS. DEEGAN: Elaine, may I present to you. your own son. William takes a lawyerly stroll, turns to face his mom.
WILLIAM: ( beat ) I wish to disprove the prevailing false belief that rock music is based on drugs and sex. True, perhaps at one time. but rock music is different now. It is now performed by hard-working intellectuals, with. with blazing intellectual pursuits, and I am going to play for you a piece of music designed to show you that my thesis is correct.
ELAINE: This is going to be hell. Across the room, Darryl takes his position near the stereo.
WILLIAM: The song is based on the literature of Tolkien. and it's mystical attempt to elevate humanity has been successful throughout the world. this song will change your life. Mom stifles a cough. William nods to Darryl, who reverentially drops the needle with a thud. Mom is trapped, as we listen to silent static. and then. the opening notes of Led Zeppelin's "Stairway to Heaven." William gives his Mother the album cover's inner-sleeve with lyrics. We ask you only to listen. Camera passes across their serious and expectant faces. The intro in not short. We listen, just watching their faces, as Elaine becomes increasingly impatient.
ELAINE: What am I supposed to say? You say it's Tolkien, fine. They sound like nice kids. Is it meant to elevate humanity? "Sure, let's elevate humanity. After we sell you drugs and sex." All I have is my honesty. That's what I believe, and that's what I know. Oh. Here's a nice ad. She holds up the magazine. And ad reads, in large bold type:
DICK: C'mon, Doris! Darling Bus. You can make it!
PENNY: Jeff grumbles from the depths of a hangover. Penny stuffs the shot in her pocket. William watches, his private heart pounds. Polexia appears and sits next to him, noticing his shyness.
POLEXIA: Do you have any pot?
WILLIAM: No. I'm a
POLEXIA: Well, go do your job then. You're on the road, man. It's all happening! Get in there. Go talk to 'em! Challenged, William rises and approaches Russell. He fixes the charismatic guitarist in his sights. Shot takes him down the aisle to the jamming star guitarist. He crouches in the aisle and talks to Russell who immediately seems moody. His mood is in the air.
WILLIAM: ( very professional ) Russell. Do you think we might be able to find some time to talk when we get to Phoenix? I want to interview everyone separately. and I felt we'd start with you and me. Nearby, Jeff now listens in, feeling immediately jealous.
RUSSELL: Russell turns away. The kid squats uncomfortably in the aisle, babbling on.
WILLIAM: Because I've got a thing in a couple It's a. thing where. uhm. you go there to graduate. School.
RUSSELL: ( self-conscious ) It's a. thing where. uhm. you go there to graduate. School.
WILLIAM: ( self-conscious ) It's a. thing where. uhm. you go there to graduate. School.
RUSSELL: ( sharply ) I never graduated. And look what happened. You're here interviewing me. Good point. Laughs from everybody listening nearby. It's a good line. William makes a quick jot in his notebook. No no no. Don't put that in Rolling Stone. My bio says I graduated. We'll come up with something better later. Just enjoy the ride. Russell eyes the notebook suspiciously before turning away. Penny notices William's discomfort, laughing warmly, all while grabbing a Coke and giving one to nearby bassist Larry.
LARRY: How did you know I was thirsty? He didn't even realize he was thirsty, but he is. He nods thanks to Penny, the perfect road companion for all. And then Penny gives the other Coke, her Coke, to William. He accepts it too, and starts back to his seat. He's been blown off, and he knows it, but before he exits Penny grabs his arm and whispers in his ear:
PENNY: I may need to stay in your room tonight. Russell's in a bad mood. He's very Bob Dylan in Don't Look Back today. He's trying to write. William nods cooly they are comrades and returns to his seat. A large joint passes in front of him, across him, to Polexia, as everyone cheers Doris the Bus rumbling up another Want some?
POLEXIA: ( inhaling deeply ) Want some?
WILLIAM: No thanks. A wall of pot smoke is exhaled, right into his face. It surrounds him like a cloud. The bus shudders, as Russell continues playing slide up ahead.
ELAINE: Has William Miller arrived yet? He hasn't. Could you give him a message as soon as you see him? -
DICK: Jeff, Tony. Keys. keys. keys. room list. bellman ) If it doesn't have a number on it, it ain't ours! He gives key and a stack of messages to Russell, and turns to William who he makes feel more important. Penny is nearby with her suitcase and tackle box purse. William watches Russell's guitars whisked away - they are luggage-numbered 1, 3, and 4. The Enemy! Here you go, here's the key to your palatial suite, room list, plus let me give you a luggage tag. You're Number 42.
CLERK: Is this Mr. Miller? You have a message from Elaine.
WILLIAM: ( confidentially ) She's a handful.
CLERK: ( confidentially ) She's a handful.
WILLIAM: I know. William cooly takes the folded message, doesn't look at it, and tries to pretend this embarrassing moment didn't happen. Jeff exchanges a look with Russell. Nearby, the walking commotion arrives, clacking through the lobby. It's Sapphire. Last night's clothes are now today's. She holds a travel case, and hanger with some odd blouses.
SAPPHIRE: Finally, you're here!! They kicked me out of my room! Fuck Ozzy! She hugs Penny Lane. Estrella appears, happy to have help with Sapphire.
ON RUSSELL: who approaches William.
RUSSELL: Come by in a few minutes. We'll do the interview. The kid exits and goes to join Penny, who is still comforting Sapphire. Russell looks through his messages. The guitar, now in a case, never leaves his hand. Jeff Bebe approaches, regarding William standing with Penny and the girls. Intrigue is swirling in the lobby.
JEFF: I'm worried, man.
RUSSELL: Naw, we can trust him. He's a fan.
JEFF: But it's harmless, but he does represent the magazine that trashed Eric Clapton, broke up Cream, ripped Led Zeppelin, and wrote that lame story about the Allman Brothers Band that bummed Duane out before he died. Don't forget the Rules. This little shit is the Enemy. He writes what he sees. But it would be cool to be on the cover.
RUSSELL: Leave it to me. We'll get a good story.
JEFF: Plus our girlfriends read this magazine and - you know.
RUSSELL: You made your point. I'll take to ON WILLIAM BY ELEVATOR Penny speaks confidentially to him. If she is slightly bossy, it is only because she's good at logistics, emotional and Can Sapphire stay in your room tonight? She had a big fight with Ozzy, and Polexia's not working out with Jeff You just have to remember. these guys are jealous, insecure, talented, egocentric, and manipulative geniuses. they're lead-singers. They can say "I love you" to 20,000 people. but any fewer is a real problem. continues to the kid ) Jeff Bebe has so much jealousy over Russell that he can't express. Plus, he never slept last night. You keep Sapphire and I'll stay with Russell. William covers his disappointment over losing Penny as a roommate. Cooly:
PENNY: Can Sapphire stay in your room tonight? She had a big fight with Ozzy, and Polexia's not working out with Jeff You just have to remember. these guys are jealous, insecure, talented, egocentric, and manipulative geniuses. they're lead-singers. They can say "I love you" to 20,000 people. but any fewer is a real problem. continues to the kid ) Jeff Bebe has so much jealousy over Russell that he can't express. Plus, he never slept last night. You keep Sapphire and I'll stay with Russell. William covers his disappointment over losing Penny as a roommate. Cooly:
WILLIAM: Sure. I'll take her.
POLEXIA: Me too?
WILLIAM: Estrella arrives with travel bag, equally homeless, looking Penny squeezes him. He feels cool. but the girl he really wanted to stay in his room now joins Russell, disappearing into the elevator. He looks down at the message in his hand, and opens it. It reads: DON'T TAKE DRUGS! He snaps it closed quickly, before anyone can see. 59A IN. RUSSELL's ROOM NIGHT 59A Russell plays acoustic guitar, a notebook cradled on his lap. Trying to write. It's coming slowly. Shot moves off him, past a flickering television, onto Penny who silently and intently watches Russell as if he's a rare and beautiful bird. He looks over at her - she turns away quickly. He goes back to work. Tries to catch her watching him again. She turns away just in time.
WILLIAM: All these people. And they all live in Phoenix.
POLEXIA: ( on phone ) Hi Dad!! I can't talk long! I'm here in Paris. I'm staying in another Youth Hostel with no phone and no address for mail!!
WILLIAM: ( still wondrous, from phone Alex. Lowbatz.
SAPPHIRE: ( emerging from bathroom ) I was the one who told him what to tattoo on his fingers, I was the one who made his shirts. I was there when his wife left him.
WILLIAM: Charles. C.
POLEXIA: ( on phone )
WILLIAM: Paul and Debbie
ESTRELLA: ( looking out window ) Oh my God. Simon Kirke of Bad Company is by the pool. The girls mobilize by the window. William is increasingly aware that he is an outsider in his own tiny room. He tries to organize his stuff in the corner.
POLEXIA: I GOTTA GO! I'LL CALL FROM ROME! Is anybody here as worried about Penny and Russell as I am?
ESTRELLA: Is anybody here as worried about Penny and Russell as I am?
POLEXIA: ( the perfect daughter )
SAPPHIRE: ( to Polexia and William ) Ooo, watch out - whoever you look at when you say that - that's who you really mean. Polexia hands up and throws a pillow at Sapphire, the kid watches these girls like a tennis match.
RUSSELL: You know. We should talk about what we don't talk about.
PENNY: We don't have to.
RUSSELL: No, I - I went to Catholic school. I believe in guilt and. you know, if there's any to be had, I pretty much want to roll around in it.
PENNY: I don't believe in attachments. No boundaries. Just the music.
RUSSELL: I'm just saying, it's okay to talk about it. Penny stands and turns. She speaks the word.
PENNY: Russell nods. The name is out in the open.
RUSSELL: ( somehow satisfied ) Alright - now we're talking. But she continues, saying the name in a multitude of different ways, in different accents, and with different degrees of indifference and passion and lust and play-acting and mock- PUSH IN ON HIS FACE As he listens and studies this ethereal creature for meaning. Is she mocking him? In love with him? Taunting him? Seducing Leslie. Leslie. Leslie. Lesssssslie. Leslie. Leslie. Leslie. Leslie. Leslie. Leslie. Leslie. Leslie. LESlie. Leslie. She continues saying it until it no longer has meaning. And finally she sits next to him. ( beat ) Now. Have I helped you get that off your chest? They kiss.
PENNY: Leslie. Leslie. Leslie. Lesssssslie. Leslie. Leslie. Leslie. Leslie. Leslie. Leslie. Leslie. Leslie. LESlie. Leslie. She continues saying it until it no longer has meaning. And finally she sits next to him. Now. Have I helped you get that off your chest? They kiss.
SAPPHIRE: Opie, can I order room service? The nickname "Opie" re-opens a nagging wound. Polexia hangs up, and begins to dial again.
WILLIAM: Okay. You guys. Wait. Put down the phone, Polexia. First, this is my room.
SAPPHIRE: Come on, you're a fan like us. You're on our side of the line.
WILLIAM: Second. I'm not Opie. Alright? Opie is a little boy. I'm here to do a job. I am a professional.
ESTRELLA: ( flipping luggage tag ) Ooooooo, sorry, Mr. 42.
WILLIAM: ( has their attention now ) . this phone is a big, big deal. In a minute, I have to go interview Russell. Do not answer this phone if it rings. I have family members with severe anxiety Problems. She will not ( wounded ) But what if Ozzy calls Sapphire? And I gave Jimmy Page this number.
POLEXIA: ( wounded ) But what if Ozzy calls Sapphire? And I gave Jimmy Page this number.
ESTRELLA: Or a guy who William looks at their troubled faces, full of too much-longing and too much make-up.
WILLIAM: Okay. I have a solution. Answer the phone. But if anyone without an English accent is on the phone. Just hang up. Or say it's the wrong They nod. It's a good plan.
WILLIAM: SHOULD I COME BY LATER? A group of golf conventioneers are now trapped behind the maid cart. They ease past William as he negotiates with Russell through the door.
WILLIAM: MAYBE THAT'S A GOOD THING!! I'LL SEE YOU AT THE RADIO INTERVIEW LATER!! TEN-THIRTY IN THE LOBBY. GO AWAY! We hear Penny's giggle. Then the door opens, and it's Penny looking ravishing. In the background, Russell sits shirtless at the table. He playfully pelts the kid with crumpled up wads of hotel stationery.
WILLIAM: GO AWAY! We hear Penny's giggle. Then the door opens, and it's Penny looking ravishing. In the background, Russell sits shirtless at the table. He playfully pelts the kid with crumpled up wads of hotel stationery.
OKAY!: GO AWAY! We hear Penny's giggle. Then the door opens, and it's Penny looking ravishing. In the background, Russell sits shirtless at the table. He playfully pelts the kid with crumpled up wads of hotel stationery.
RUSSELL: GO AWAY! We hear Penny's giggle. Then the door opens, and it's Penny looking ravishing. In the background, Russell sits shirtless at the table. He playfully pelts the kid with crumpled up wads of hotel stationery.
GO AWAY!: We hear Penny's giggle. Then the door opens, and it's Penny looking ravishing. In the background, Russell sits shirtless at the table. He playfully pelts the kid with crumpled up wads of hotel stationery.
WILLIAM: We hear Penny's giggle. Then the door opens, and it's Penny looking ravishing. In the background, Russell sits shirtless at the table. He playfully pelts the kid with crumpled up wads of hotel stationery.
OKAY!: We hear Penny's giggle. Then the door opens, and it's Penny looking ravishing. In the background, Russell sits shirtless at the table. He playfully pelts the kid with crumpled up wads of hotel stationery.
PENNY: Don't worry. Some to the radio No, I'm fine. I'll just interview Jeff Bebe some more.
WILLIAM: No, I'm fine. I'll just interview Jeff Bebe some more.
RUSSELL: ( as in "you're on of us" )
GO AWAY!: She shuts the door quickly. It hurts a little. He picks up the wadded pieces of paper, stuffs them in his pocket. He leaves the door and helps himself to some soap and pencils and matches from the nearby maid's cart. Then he returns to Russell's door. He can't help but listen to the muffled sounds of laughter, just for a moment, escalating. He flips the sign over: HOUSEKEEPING PLEASE ENTER - CLEAN ROOM.
QUINCE ALLEN: The guitar of Russell Hammond. "Fever Dog". The band is Stillwater. Watch with your mind as they Band members gets closer to the microphone, preparing to speak. Quince lowers his head, shutting his eyes and getting into the music as the song plays out.
ESTRELLA: William's room.
BEN: Can I please speak to him? This is Ben Fong-Torres at Rolling Stone. Estrella panics, hangs up quickly, as if the phone has just caught fire.
ESTRELLA: I think I just messed up!
QUINCE: Look at the dogs, wearing the funny hats. Juggling just for you. Freaks and family. Penny shoots William a look. Do you believe this guy? It's Quince, with Stillwater. Here. Live. It's the Night Circus. The band scoots closer to the microphone, ready to talk. Quince continues, looking meaningfully at the band. They are waiting. eager for a chance to speak. Every minute a baby is born somewhere.. Life. Death. Hermetically sealed bags of human emotion. Bags of love. bags of kindness? How'd you get together? As Jeff eagerly speaks, Quince lowers his head and listens. feels. the words of his guests.
JEFF: Well. not to get into a "me" thing. this is Jeff talking. but I did start the band, some time, actually, ago. This is back when we were the Jeff Bebe band, and I placed an ad in a magazine called Peaches looking for a guitarist and Russell Hammond answered. Quince nods, head bowed, swaying slowly.
QUINCE: ( with deep understanding ) Jeff watches Quince's head lower. It's hard to know when to talk with Quince. The depth of his mellowness is tough to get in rhythm with.
JEFF: I think he was a gift from God, actually. Nobody plays like Russell Well, shit. Thank you. He instantly realizes he's slipped, on the air. Ooops. Better hit the delay button. All eyes turn to Quince, whose head stays down, grooving to some inner beat. He says nothing. The band looks at each other. We become increasingly aware that Quince may now be asleep. Long silence. William shares an amazed look with Penny. Quince is definitely asleep. Russell leans forward and continues talking quietly, with hilarious sincerity. Okay - we're talking now, right? Why the fuck do you wait until and interview in Arizona to say something nice about me. Why don't you say it to my fucking face sometime? Because I tell you every time I think you nailed something.
RUSSELL: ( sorta moved ) Well, shit. Thank you. He instantly realizes he's slipped, on the air. Ooops. Better hit the delay button. All eyes turn to Quince, whose head stays down, grooving to some inner beat. He says nothing. The band looks at each other. We become increasingly aware that Quince may now be asleep. Long silence. William shares an amazed look with Penny. Quince is definitely asleep. Russell leans forward and continues talking quietly, with hilarious sincerity. Okay - we're talking now, right? Why the fuck do you wait until and interview in Arizona to say something nice about me. Why don't you say it to my fucking face sometime? Because I tell you every time I think you nailed something.
JEFF: Everybody pays you compliments. It's not my fucking job to kiss your fucking ass all the time.
RUSSELL: Well then who's fucking job is it? Because my ass is dying for a kiss. And I know yours is too.
DICK: It's my fucking job. You're all geniuses. And let me just add this thought - smegma. Penny covers her mouth as offers a look of absurdity to William. He offers one back, as laughs are stifled throughout the room. William shares a look. Quince is still deeply asleep, as the usually quiet tony leans forward to speak.
TONY: He cracks himself up, silently. Quince snaps awake, fully in- "Love Thing" takes over, as Quince swivels in the chair.
QUINCE: The dong is called "Love Thing." Your mind is Starting to take effect. They're all here to see you swallow fire. You scream soundlessly. on the Night Circus. It's Quince, with "Love Thing" takes over, as Quince swivels in the chair. I thought that went well.
RUSSELL: ( to William ) See, this is what nobody writes about! The in-between times! This! Us! Right now!!
ESTRELLA: ( suspiciously ) INT. WILLIAM'S HOUSE NIGHT It's Mom on the phone.
ELAINE: ( measured, very proper ) May I speak with William please?
ESTRELLA: ( cheerfully ) He's not here. I think he's in the bar with the Band. They just got back from the radio station. Is this Maryann with the pot? No this isn't Maryann with the pot. This is Elaine. his Mother. Estrella physically recoils.
ELAINE: No this isn't Maryann with the pot. This is Elaine. his Mother. Estrella physically recoils.
ESTRELLA: ( cringing ) I thought you were English.
ELAINE: Could you please give him a message? Could you tell him to call home immediately? And could you also tell him - I know what's going on.
ESTRELLA: Alright. Okay. But I'm just going to say this, and I'm going to stand by You should be really proud of him. 'Cause I know guys. and I'll bet you do too. And he respects women, and he likes women, and let's just pause and appreciate a man like that. You created him out of thin air, and you raised him right, and we're all looking out for him. And that's more than I've ever said to my own parents, so there you go. This is the maid speaking, by the way.
WILLIAM: ( very professional ) Now that you're starting to be successful, you had twenty-six years to write your first Album. and you'll have maybe four months for the second. Do you worry that the pressure of the business will get in the way of the original joy of making your music? Or
RUSSELL: ( laughing ) I need three more beers and my guitar before I can answer that question. Let's take a walk.
RUSSELL: For a minute I thought you were actually a real journalist. which is. you know, it's great. Shut that thing off, and I'll tell you the truth. William shuts his tape recorder off.
WILLIAM: It's off.
RUSSELL: Look. I trust you. I'm going to lay this right on you. Just make us look I will quote you warmly and accurately.
WILLIAM: I will quote you warmly and accurately.
RUSSELL: That's what I'm worried about. See - some of us have girlfriends back home. Some of us have wives. And. some of the people you meet on the road are really amazing people. They both watch Penny Lane, sparkling, fresh from the pool. She places hotel furniture into the shallow end and inviting all, even other curious hotel guests, to join them in the pool. Like you. And some of the things that happen are good for just a few people to know about - as opposed to, say, a million people. Dawn is breaking for William.
WILLIAM: You know what I mean?
RUSSELL: You know what I mean?
WILLIAM: Right. Yeah.
RUSSELL: See, you're dangerous. Most people are just waiting to talk, but you Right. Right.
WILLIAM: Right. Right.
RUSSELL: So your question you asked me. I think about It every fucking night. The "business." I hate it! I grew up with these guys, okay? I can't play all that I can play, I'm past these musicians, do you understand?
WILLIAM: I do.
RUSSELL: The more popular we get, the more I can't walk on them, the bigger their houses get, the more pressure. you forget, man. You forget what it was like to be real, to be a fan. You can hear it in a lot of bands who've been successful - it doesn't sound like music anymore. It sounds like. like lifestyle maintenance. I used to be able to hear the sounds of the world. Everything, to me, used to sound like music. Everything. Now I don't hear it. You know what I'm trying to say?
WILLIAM: ( ruefully ) Man, it feels good to say this stuff out loud. But what am I doing? I'm telling secrets to the one guy you don't tell secrets to.
RUSSELL: Man, it feels good to say this stuff out loud. But what am I doing? I'm telling secrets to the one guy you don't tell secrets to.
WILLIAM: ( feeling included ) No, that's okay. We'll do the interview This is good. So there's the "friend" and then there's the "interview guy."
RUSSELL: This is good. So there's the "friend" and then there's the "interview guy."
WILLIAM: So tonight it's "friend".. and when we wake up tomorrow - "interview guy." We'll figure it out as we go, buddy.
RUSSELL: So tonight it's "friend".. and when we wake up tomorrow - "interview guy." We'll figure it out as we go, buddy.
WILLIAM: Hey - for whatever it's worth - you guys are really good. Russell laughs at the kid's easy naivete. He hands his guitar to the kid, and joins the party. William watches, part of the crowd. somehow feeling a little compromised. He doesn't care. Penny gestures for him to join them.
WILLIAM: How would you describe your role in Stillwater? What is the chemical that you add to the chemistry?
LARRY: I'm the bass-player.
WILLIAM: ( pressing for some poetry ) Right. And when you take that away. what would be missing? Stylistically? What chemical?
LARRY: ( not getting it ) The bass? Larry doesn't give him much.
DICK: Good evening Phoenix. From Troy, Michigan. Please welcome, Lights come up, as the band launches into "Fever Dog." Jeff begins singing. Russell reaches to adjust the microphone for a back-up vocal and is hit with something unexpected. A sharp electrical shock. It's just a slight pop in the loud din of music, but within a moment something is clearly wrong. Russell holds onto the microphone stand with a surprised look, conducting high-voltage for two seconds and then he snaps his hand off the metal. His face is white, he takes off his guitar and walks off-stage, collapsing a couple steps later.
DICK: Get in, get in!! William boards the bus, as the extremely agitated PROMOTER arrives to confront Dick.
PROMOTER: Are you the manager of this band?
DICK: That, and more. Get in!
PROMOTER: You didn't even play a full set! Dick whirls and unleashes an anger we've not yet seen, gesturing with the silver briefcase that does not leave his hand.
DICK: Your shoddy stage set-up almost killed our guitarist!
PROMOTER: You trashed the dressing room - you didn't play your thirty-five minutes. You didn't fulfill your contract -
DICK: Everybody in! Get in the bus!
PROMOTER: I'll report you to every promoter in the country! I'm gonna talk to Frank YOU DON'T FUCK WITH MY BAND'S SAFETY! I hope you have a good lawyer.
DICK: YOU DON'T FUCK WITH MY BAND'S SAFETY! I hope you have a good lawyer.
PROMOTER: I hope you have a good lawyer.
DICK: I AM A LAWYER! He swings into the bus, as the bus revs.
PROMOTER: LOCK THE GATE ON 'EM! 73 INT. BUS NIGHT 73 Russell sits, pale, next to Penny at the front of the bus. He examines his singed hand, shaking it a little to emphasize the positivity of her words.
PENNY: Don't worry. It's happened to all the greats. Thank God you didn't hold the mike stand with both hands, you'd still be holding it. This is a good thing. It's a good, good, good thing. William sits nearby, watching Russell, making notes out of eye- sight of others. The ever-wary Jeff, unseen by William, cranes to see that he's writing in his notebook. Dick swings into the seat across from Russell. The bus door shuts, as the promoter is still yelling. Doris is slow to gain speed, as Estrella appears, running alongside. She knocks on the window next to William.
ESTRELLA: I forgot to tell you! Your mom says to call home immediately. She says she knows what's going on! See you guys in Topeka! I'll catch a ride with Sabbath! William nods with embarrassment, waves to her, as the bus races toward the now closing gate.
DICK: ( casually, to Russell ) Wanna buy a gate? Before Russell can answer - BASH. Doris barrels through the steel-gate, snapping it like a chopstick to great cheers inside this bus. You just bought a gate. ( to the bus ) C'mon Doris!! Get us out of town!! The bus struggles up a slight incline, everybody rooting for Doris, as she eases out of the parking lot and onto a What did it feel like to be It burns. It feels like a dose of lead shooting through your body. and then you see God, and he says, "How bad do you want to be legendary?" And god damnit. I let go. ( shaky grin as all laugh warmly ) Rock and roll. Jeff watches this charisma with thinly veiled envy. The kid scribbles in his notebook. We hear Led Zeppelin's "That's the 74 INT. BUS - EARLY MORNING 74 Song continues. Almost everybody is asleep. William takes the camera and snaps a Polaroid of a sleeping Penny. She wakes Give that to me. She grabs for it, they have a brief play-fight. He grabs some other Polaroids from her pocket. He hustles to the back of the bus, pockets the photo, and settles down to watch the passing landscapes. She chases him down the aisle. Music continues as she sits down next to him. Out the window, a long-distance running team of Girls keeps pace with the bus for a bit. They wave. Penny watches them over sunglasses, waves briefly to the real world. ( breathing heavy, owning the world ) When we go to Morocco, I think we should wear completely different clothes, and be completely different people.
WILLIAM: What did it feel like to be It burns. It feels like a dose of lead shooting through your body. and then you see God, and he says, "How bad do you want to be legendary?" And god damnit. I let go. warmly ) Rock and roll. Jeff watches this charisma with thinly veiled envy. The kid scribbles in his notebook. We hear Led Zeppelin's "That's the 74 INT. BUS - EARLY MORNING 74 Song continues. Almost everybody is asleep. William takes the camera and snaps a Polaroid of a sleeping Penny. She wakes Give that to me. She grabs for it, they have a brief play-fight. He grabs some other Polaroids from her pocket. He hustles to the back of the bus, pockets the photo, and settles down to watch the passing landscapes. She chases him down the aisle. Music continues as she sits down next to him. Out the window, a long-distance running team of Girls keeps pace with the bus for a bit. They wave. Penny watches them over sunglasses, waves briefly to the real world. the world ) When we go to Morocco, I think we should wear completely different clothes, and be completely different people.
RUSSELL: It burns. It feels like a dose of lead shooting through your body. and then you see God, and he says, "How bad do you want to be legendary?" And god damnit. I let go. warmly ) Rock and roll. Jeff watches this charisma with thinly veiled envy. The kid scribbles in his notebook. We hear Led Zeppelin's "That's the 74 INT. BUS - EARLY MORNING 74 Song continues. Almost everybody is asleep. William takes the camera and snaps a Polaroid of a sleeping Penny. She wakes Give that to me. She grabs for it, they have a brief play-fight. He grabs some other Polaroids from her pocket. He hustles to the back of the bus, pockets the photo, and settles down to watch the passing landscapes. She chases him down the aisle. Music continues as she sits down next to him. Out the window, a long-distance running team of Girls keeps pace with the bus for a bit. They wave. Penny watches them over sunglasses, waves briefly to the real world. the world ) When we go to Morocco, I think we should wear completely different clothes, and be completely different people.
PENNY: Give that to me. She grabs for it, they have a brief play-fight. He grabs some other Polaroids from her pocket. He hustles to the back of the bus, pockets the photo, and settles down to watch the passing landscapes. She chases him down the aisle. Music continues as she sits down next to him. Out the window, a long-distance running team of Girls keeps pace with the bus for a bit. They wave. Penny watches them over sunglasses, waves briefly to the real world. the world ) When we go to Morocco, I think we should wear completely different clothes, and be completely different people.
WILLIAM: What will our names be? She snaps a Polaroid of a nearby sleeping Silent Ed, pockets the Polaroid. She regards Russell up ahead, also sleeping. Her attention has already wandered from Morocco.
PENNY: What do you think of Russell?
WILLIAM: I like him.
PENNY: You're coming to Cleveland, right?
WILLIAM: get my interview with Russell before Greenville. And you've got to help me. Okay? Friends. remember? Penny is still watching Russell.
PENNY: You should give him a break. There are real problems in the band. Off the record. Gravely noting the word "problems", the kid joins Penny in watching Russell, who is splayed haphazardly, sleeping restlessly up ahead.
WILLIAM: What problems?
PENNY: Okay. I got it. I think your name should be Spencer, and mine will be I can't keep up with you.
WILLIAM: I can't keep up with you.
PENNY: No one can.
WILLIAM: What's your real name? She looks at him briefly. She puts her arm around him. It's intoxicating, but he doesn't quite know how to act. With her free hand, she gestures with a hanger. As they regard Russell sleeping nearby:
PENNY: Here's the thing about Russell. He's my last project. I only do this for a very few people. And I think we should do it together - he is almost great. We've got to take him there. You and me - we can do it. Deal? Because the other guys are good - but he could be great. He's my last project. He looks at her. She imitates his face back to him. It's all happening.
WILLIAM: What do you love about music? Ed looks at him thoughtfully. It is an eloquent moment. He thinks. He shrugs. The kid tumbles with more questions. These interviews are not going well.
JEFF: William pretends he sees nothing as he turns to the urinal, and shot stays on Jeff, who looks a little high and a little 77 INT. BACKSTAGE PAY PHONE - NIGHT 77 William is on the pay phone with his Mother. The show booms in the background.
WILLIAM: William pretends he sees nothing as he turns to the urinal, and shot stays on Jeff, who looks a little high and a little 77 INT. BACKSTAGE PAY PHONE - NIGHT 77 William is on the pay phone with his Mother. The show booms in the background.
WILLIAM: I know. I know. I know. I know. Mom. Mom. Mom.
WILLIAM: Right now Topeka. Then Greenville. Then home. He winces slightly, holds the phone away from his ear for a I'm sorry I didn't call yesterday! It's not like you can just carry a phone around with you.
ELAINE: I guess I just miss you, and I don't understand why I've driven both my kids so far away from me. By all practical rules don't I get you for three more years? He is touched by her vulnerability, more visible now than ever, as music continues in b.g. Was I not fun?
WILLIAM: I missed the last thing you said. Mom takes a pause.
ELAINE: I LOVE YOU. Penny now enters, watching.
WILLIAM: ( angry, louder )
WHAT?: ( angry, louder )
ELAINE: ( angry, louder )
WILLIAM: I LOVE YOU!! Penny smiles knowingly, collecting his affection like another backstage pass, and turns away. Camera stays on William. He is suddenly and deeply embarrassed. He's just told her that he loves her and she knows it. He hangs up, traumatized.
RUSSELL: Fire away. I'm ready. I'm on the "You" Train. Take me there. The kid plugs in his microphone. Russell listens as he springs his first question.
WILLIAM: Do you have to be depressed to write a sad song? Do you have to be in love to write a love song? Is a song better if it really happened to you? Like, "If You Say Nothing". where did you write that and how did it come about? Russell admires the many questions. Says nothing. He looks at his hand, thinks.
RUSSELL: When did you get so professional? In the background, Penny Lane irons Silent Ed's shirt. Grinning, she cuffs his shoulder. To the shirtless silent drummer, waiting for his shirt.
PENNY: I'm almost done with my shirt. Ed watches her appreciatively, drumming silently on a rubber pad. Penny kisses Russell, who swings her onto his lap. In the corner, Jeff watches them all with a vague feeling of being underappreciated. And now Dick enters with a large cardboard Russell, your dad showed up again. And on a lighter note. Gentlemen. Your first t-shirts have There is an immediate buzz in the room, as Dick yanks open the box filled with new white t-shirts. He untangles the first fresh shirt, and displays it proudly. A silent beat as all examine it - their first t-shirt. Faces fall. Ed stops drumming. There has been a mistake. It is a fuzzy band photo with the group name emblazoned below. Only Russell, who stand out front, is colored- in and emphasized on the shirt. He turns away, making a noise. Jeff stares at the t-shirt. He's just about in tears. There is a long silence and then. Ed resumes drumming on the rubber pad. It's the record company's mistake. And they will pay. Shirts gone, band He drops the offending shirt into the trash, as if it were contaminated, and exits with the box. William watches as the two men, Russell and Jeff, move to opposite sides of the room. Russell puts on a shirt, so does Jeff. The vibe is thick. Russel turns to see Jeff staring at him.
DICK: Russell, your dad showed up again. And on a lighter note. Gentlemen. Your first t-shirts have There is an immediate buzz in the room, as Dick yanks open the box filled with new white t-shirts. He untangles the first fresh shirt, and displays it proudly. A silent beat as all examine it - their first t-shirt. Faces fall. Ed stops drumming. There has been a mistake. It is a fuzzy band photo with the group name emblazoned below. Only Russell, who stand out front, is colored- in and emphasized on the shirt. He turns away, making a noise. Jeff stares at the t-shirt. He's just about in tears. There is a long silence and then. Ed resumes drumming on the rubber pad. It's the record company's mistake. And they will pay. Shirts gone, band He drops the offending shirt into the trash, as if it were contaminated, and exits with the box. William watches as the two men, Russell and Jeff, move to opposite sides of the room. Russell puts on a shirt, so does Jeff. The vibe is thick. Russel turns to see Jeff staring at him.
RUSSELL: Can we just skip the vibe and go straight to us laughing about this?
JEFF: ( bitterly ) Yeah. Okay.
RUSSELL: ( trying for a joke ) Because I can see by your face - you want to get into this -
JEFF: How can you tell? I'm just one of the out-of-focus guys.
RUSSELL: Here we go. William watches as Russell fishes the t-shirt out of the trash. Here. Take it. You LOVE this shirt - it lets you say everything you want to Well, it speaks pretty loudly to me.
JEFF: Well, it speaks pretty loudly to me.
RUSSELL: It's a Russell turns away.
JEFF: I'm always gonna tell you the truth.
RUSSELL: Are you doing coke again?
JEFF: The kid looks down.
RUSSELL: Excuse me, but didn't we all get into this to avoid responsibility?
JEFF: Forgive me. But this is the slow-moving train of compromise that will kill us. Russell makes a disgusted noise. Penny Lane exits discreetly, looking back at William. I can't say anymore with a writer here.
RUSSELL: You can trust him, you can say whatever you want.
JEFF: ( eyes suddenly moist ) I works as hard or harder than anybody on that stage. You know what I do - I connect. I get people off. I look for the guy who isn't getting off, and I make him get off. ( beat ) Actually, that you can print. ( continues to Russell ) And yet, why do I always end up feeling like I'm a joke to you? I feel nothing but love for you. We're a family. He looks at the t-shirt and starts to cry. Embarrassed, he grows angrier. You want to pretend this isn't going to be a very big band. Well it is. You call yourself a leader of this band, but your direction allowed the t-shirt, when you allowed Dick to manage us, 'cause he's your friend. don't you see? The t-shirt is everything. It's everything.
RUSSELL: Is it my turn? Because I think we should, for once, say what we really Oh, this is the part where you quit -
JEFF: Oh, this is the part where you quit -
RUSSELL: ( stiffening ) Right. I'm so predictable.
JEFF: No I gotta tell the truth I want you to like me. But sometimes I feel like you collect people who love you and then very skillfully. you make them feel bad that they're not good enough for you.
RUSSELL: Stick to singing, brother, 'cause you ain't gonna make it as a shrink.
JEFF: Deal with it! And let me just say what nobody Else wants to say to you -
RUSSELL: Your looks have become a problem.
JEFF: Your looks have become a problem.
DAD: ( dutifully ) Hello Harry. Dad introduces a woman much younger, who eyes Russell hungrily.
RUSSELL: ( dutifully ) Hello Harry. Dad introduces a woman much younger, who eyes Russell hungrily.
DAD: He got all the good genes, huh? Meet Deirdre. We're getting married in 83 EXT. ARENA NIGHT 83 Russell walks fast outside the arena. William hustles to catch up. The two men walk in long silent strides in the cold night air, beyond the backstage area. Fans begin to recognize and follow at a discreet distance.
WILLIAM: You okay? You alright? Russell doesn't answer.
RUSSELL: ( resolute, wound up ) From here on out, I'm only interested in what's real. The kid nods. They walk. Real feelings. Real people. That's all I'm interested in. From here on out. What is REAL? You're real.
WILLIAM: A wave of warmth comes over Russell.
RUSSELL: You know, you know all about us and I don't know shit about you. What's your. your family like? Tell Well, my dad died of a heart attack and my sister believes that my Mom is so intense that she might have contributed to it. Plus -
WILLIAM: Well, my dad died of a heart attack and my sister believes that my Mom is so intense that she might have contributed to it. Plus -
RUSSELL: ( immediately ) Okay, that's good. That's enough.
WILLIAM: It's good to talk about it. Really Russel now sees some hero worship in the kid's face, and it makes him nervous. Hey, man, maybe we should go back.
RUSSELL: If they want me, they can find me. William turns and sees nobody following but fans.
WILLIAM: So listen. I have to go home tomorrow. I know this is a bad time to finish our interview.
RUSSELL: Hey, man, you know what? Write whatever you want. I trust you. A big square Chevy van slows down. A CONCERT-GOER hands his head out the window.
RUSSELL: On my better days, yes. I am "Woooooo, Russell from Stillwater!"
RUSSELL: ( eyes glowing ) You. Aaron. Are what it's all about. You are real. Your room is real. Your friends are real. You are more important than. than. all the silly machinery. And you know it! In eleven years it's gonna be 1984, man. Think about that!
AARON: Wanna see me feed a mouse to my snake?
RUSSELL: KID # 1 Can I have your belt?
RUSSELL: Take it! Russel whips off his belt, gives it to the fan. A joint goes by, headed for Russell. William intercepts it and passes it Aaron? Where's your bathroom? I want to live here. I want to eat your food, and live in your city and fuckin rock like I used to. I want to learn everything there is to know about your city and your town. And your way of being real. I used to be you.
AARON: Down the hall by the washing machine.
RUSSELL: The bathroom.
AARON: The bathroom.
RUSSELL: Okay. Good to know. Russell rises and squeezes past fans and heads down the hall.
WOOOOOOO!!: A QUIET GIRL, 14, turns and watches Russell pass. We linger on her face for just a moment, full of wonder.
WILLIAM: We should probably head back sometime. Russell ignores him.
RUSSELL: Topeka. Check it out. Russell enters the bathroom. William stands guard. With a finger outstretched from each hand, he lectures the fans massing in the hallway.
WILLIAM: Please don't give him any more acid.
RUSSELL: Faces. Stones. None of these people are gonna be around in twenty years! Plastic begets plastic!! Black plastic. Partygoers are strangely fascinated by the rock star in their living room.
WILLIAM: No no. Nope. No. William takes the phone and hangs up. Keeping an eye on Russell in the next room, he dials from a tour itinerary sheet. Dick Roswell, please? Dick!! I got him!! He's okay. I've been Looking after him. He's on acid, though. I can't Really tell. How do you know when it's "kicked in?"
RUSSELL: ( bellowing to the heavens )
WILLIAM: Hey Russell -
RUSSELL: I AM A GOLDEN GOD!! Don't jump, okay?
WILLIAM: Don't jump, okay?
RUSSELL: And you can tell my last words were - He spreads his arms, and tries to think of last words. I'm on drugs!! The kids cheer. William looks around, remains cool. Yells upward in the cold night air.
WILLIAM: I think we should work on those last No, I'm not -
RUSSELL: No, I'm not -
WILLIAM: No, I'm not -
RUSSELL: Okay I got it. I got it. I got it. I got it. This is better. Last words
WILLIAM: Just come on down!!
RUSSELL: ( matter-of-fact ) He jumps from the roof into the cold, algaed water below. He sinks immediately. One kid jumps in, then another, then more. Everybody wants to save Russell.
RUSSELL: Thanks for saving my life. I won't hold it against you. Twenty different kids thank him for the opportunity. ( "Glad to do it," "Right on," "Damn straight." )
DICK: ( privately ) They've been crying for you like a bunch of whimpering pussies
RUSSELL: ( woozy ) The band is over. This is my family Right on. He's staying with us.
OTHERS: Right on. He's staying with us.
DICK: ( soothing ) Definitely. It's all over. We'll just ride on to Greenville, listen to some great music, finish the tour, and leave those ungrateful fools behind. And then we'll come back here, where you'll live.
RUSSELL: I know what you're doing. and Look at him. He's taking notes with his eyes. How do we know he's not a cop? William laughs painfully, as Russell moves in, eyes flaring with sudden paranoia. He could be selling information!
DICK: ( to Russell ) Easy. He's your Guardian Angel. Russell turns away. William shrugs with style, but his lingering look is filled with hurt. Dick guides Russell to the door, grabbing the kid and talking very directly to him as they move. Don't worry. He only means half of what he says.
WILLIAM: Which half?
DICK: Good question.
WILLIAM: ( very direct ) I have a lot more. Just help me get my interview so I can go home from Greenville. I have to go home. ( pulls him back ) I have to go home.
DICK: Hey. You saved the tour. That's good enough for now. Frustrated but feeling important, William hands him some of Russell's wet clothes. William deftly retrieves Russell's shoes and smoothly plucks the guitarist's sunglasses from the partygoer who also wears his belt. They move to the door in a pack. We hear the beginning of Elton John's "Tiny Dancer." Dick faces the crowd and addresses them in his "important" stage voice. Ladies and Gentlemen, the evening is over! We hope you've enjoyed yourselves, and we'll See you again in 1974!! Good evening!! William gives Russell his sunglasses to face the sunlight. Russell stumbles out of the house to great cheers. The Quiet Girl breaks free to catch Russell on the way out.
QUIET GIRL: I'll never forget you. Dick pats William's arm one more time good work. They leave Aaron's house as legends.
FADE OUT: FADE IN: 93 EXT. HIGHWAY DAY 93 Passing signs announce Greenville, North Carolina.
LESTER: How's it going?
WILLIAM: have my key interview. I don't know what to say.
LESTER BANGS: ( pacing, assembling thoughts with his hands ) You're flipping out. That's good. Alright. This is how you blow their minds. He'll ask you - this is Ben Fong-Torres, right? - he'll ask you how the story's going. Here's what you do - let's fry his mind. Tell him "it's a think piece about a mid-level band struggling with their own limitations in the harsh face of stardom." Ha ha!! This is fun! William scrambles to make notes.
WILLIAM: ( madly copying ) . think. piece.
SAPPHIRE: It says the food is hearty and Greenville. I'm bored. Penny yawns too, it's catchy, and rises to visit the bathroom. Hey let's deflower the kid. Now Sapphire yawns, looks in her purse.
POLEXIA: ( yawns ) Greenville. I'm bored. Penny yawns too, it's catchy, and rises to visit the bathroom. Hey let's deflower the kid. Now Sapphire yawns, looks in her purse.
SAPPHIRE: Who his the quaaludes from me?
WILLIAM: Wait. I'll leave. He gets up, knocking his carefully organized notes onto the floor. He is brimming with things to say. More than he is even able to communicate. You know, I think this is going backwards for me.
PENNY: ( flustered ) I don't know. I just thought we could hang out, maybe do some stuff back home, regular stuff, get to know each other better. and then I'd see you pee. I mean, that's the way I usually do it.
WILLIAM: ( flustered ) I don't know. I just thought we could hang out, maybe do some stuff back home, regular stuff, get to know each other better. and then I'd see you pee. I mean, that's the way I usually do it.
PENNY: You're one of us. It's no big deal.
WILLIAM: Oh! If you go to Cleveland, Bowie's going to be there at Swingo's, the greatest hotel in America. I'll introduce you to him, and his security guy Dennis. William stops at the door.
PENNY: Oh! If you go to Cleveland, Bowie's going to be there at Swingo's, the greatest hotel in America. I'll introduce you to him, and his security guy Dennis. William stops at the door.
WILLIAM: Don't you have any regular friends?
PENNY: Famous people are just more interesting. He looks at her. Even sitting on the can, she's elegant and totally focused on him.
WILLIAM: ( carefully ) Well, I would be worried that they were using me. And not that anybody's using you, but - She swoons a little, touched and moved.
PENNY: Boy, if this was the real world and some guy talked to me like that -
WILLIAM: Let me finish. I'm not famous.. but you could always use me. If anything happens. And I would never use you. Even if I got famous. So you know, you always have that from me. in the real world. If you ever have to go back there, for She looks at him curiously, as the door blasts open. Sapphire and Polexia head for William.
SAPPHIRE: Your time has come.
WILLIAM: Did he call? What are you stop it we're talking Pants him. Opie must die. They swarm him, dragging him kicking into the bedroom.
SAPPHIRE: Pants him. Opie must die. They swarm him, dragging him kicking into the bedroom.
SAPPHIRE: Just relax. Take a vacation from yourself. Leave this to professionals. Estrella and Polexia kiss each other playfully. William looks confused. Across the room, Penny laughs, turns up the TV, blows him a kiss. Penny's eyes. Across the room. His eyes. His sexual awakening may be downtime amusement for them, but to him it's an embarrassingly intense moment he shares only with Penny Lane across the room. She turns away, smiling, disappears into the next room.
SAPPHIRE: ( half-English accent ) Hello. Hi, Ben-Fong-Torres from Rolling William snatches the phone.
WILLIAM: ( lowers voice ) 101 INT. BEN FONG-TORRES' KITCHEN SATURDAY MORNING 101 Ben Fong-Torres is up bright and early.
BEN: Hello William, this is your editor at He offers the name of the magazine with a swirl that implies high-level importance. Rolling Stone. How's the story?
WILLIAM: I'm getting good stuff out here.
BEN: Sounds like it. Next to him, Polexia yawns herself awake.
POLEXIA: Man, I need some - He clamps a hand over her mouth.
BEN: ( jocular but tough ) Now listen. Get it together. We're both professionals, I don't have to tell you this. You're not out there to join the party we already have one Hunter Thompson. You're out there to interview and Report. You got me? This isn't Creem Magazine, it's Rolling Stone. We need this story in four days. Now I want to know how it's shaping up.
WILLIAM: It's a think-piece about a mid-level band grappling with their limitations in the face of the harsh glare of I like what we're saying. Let me try and get you a thousand more words. It's in consideration for the cover, but don't tell the band.
BEN: ( pause ) I like what we're saying. Let me try and get you a thousand more words. It's in consideration for the cover, but don't tell the band.
WILLIAM: ( conflicted ) The kid hangs up, now shouldering even more pressure. He unclamps Polexia's mouth.
POLEXIA: - coffee.
SAPPHIRE: Me too. Greenville is Any other city in the world and you'd still be a virgin.
WILLIAM: I'm going out to find Russell.
SAPPHIRE: Will you take the laundry?
WILLIAM: ( to the girls ) What am I to you? Tell me right now! What. Am. I. To. You.
WILLIAM: Houdini. Houdini. He arrives at Russell's door. Two exclamation points have been Sharpie-markered to the words Do Not Disturb on the sign is gaffer-taped to his door. He looks through the crack, at the bottom of the door. Carefully and politely, he knocks. GO AWAY! Pissed, the kid flips off the door. He sits down on a chair directly across from the room. Push in on William, who is more pent-up than ever. He tries hard not to cry, taking gulps of air as a maid cart swishes past, revealing. he's failed. He cries.
GO AWAY!: Pissed, the kid flips off the door. He sits down on a chair directly across from the room. Push in on William, who is more pent-up than ever. He tries hard not to cry, taking gulps of air as a maid cart swishes past, revealing. he's failed. He cries.
WILLIAM: No. I can't. You've got to help me. I have to go home.
RUSSELL: Come on man, we'll have more time there. Don't be tense!! He begins rubbing the kid's shoulders. He's waking up. There's Penny, also rubbing his shoulders. It is degrading. and somehow cool too.
WILLIAM: ( to Penny ) You said you'd help me.
PENNY: ( massaging ) Come to Cleveland.
RUSSELL: ( massaging, hypnotically ) Come to Cleveland. Come to I can't!!
WILLIAM: I can't!!
RUSSELL: Can we help it if we like having you William is a bundle of nerves and exhaustion now. Embarrassed and frustrated. Cleveland, my man. You can't miss out on the Rock Mecca of the midwest - you're with us. It's all happening!
PENNY: Rock and roll!
WILLIAM: ( weary ) Rock and roll. We hear David Bowie's live version of "Waiting for the Man."
RUSSELL: I feel. like his parents. Penny runs a worried hand through her hair.
PENNY: I know.
RUSSELL: I wonder how that happened.
PENNY: You ever notice that all our sentences begin with "I?"
RUSSELL: I hadn't, no.
PENNY: 'Cause we should work on that. He looks at her, plays the guitar a little.
RUSSELL: 106 EXT. DOWNTOWN CLEVELAND - LATE NIGHT 106 Like a slow-moving shark, Doris pulls into empty downtown Cleveland. The streets are empty. They pass the Agoura Ballroom, where a man with a long stick arranges the letters Stillwater on the marquee. Applause in the bus.
FAN: It's Bowie! The lobby ignites, as William stands near Penny and Russell. Bowie races from a limousine through the lobby and into the elevators. He is shrouded by a jacket. Just the top of his electric red hair travels the lobby, as he's hustled by security man Dennis in the elevator. And out of the chaos comes.
WILLIAM: Hi Mom. I'm in Cleveland. He listens stoically. Larry and Ed watch nearby.
RUSSELL: Tell her you're a slave to the groove - you can't help it!
WILLIAM: ( covers phone ) Russell grabs the phone, talks to the silent mother on the other end.
RUSSELL: Hi Mom! It's Russell Hammond, I play guitar in Stillwater! It's my fault. How does it feel to be the mother of the future of rock journalism? Silence. Penny passes and stands near William, smoothing her pass. They watch a new pack of groupies prowl the road-crew. They are more glam, more trashy and less selective. They glare insolently at Penny Lane. This is the future. You've got a great kid nothing to worry about! We're taking care of him! And you should come to a show sometime! Join the Circus!
ELAINE: Listen to me. Your charm does not work on me. I'm onto you. Of course you like him.
RUSSELL: He worships you people and that's fine with you, as long as he helps make you Rich? I don't think so -
ELAINE: He worships you people and that's fine with you, as long as he helps make you Rich? I don't think so -
RUSSELL: ( a nerve is struck ) Rich? I don't think so -
ELAINE: Listen to me. He's a smart, good- hearted, 15 year-old kid, with infinite Russel looks over at the kid, eyes narrowing as he processes the truth. He's 15? This is not some apron-wearing mother you're talking to. I know about your Valhalla of Decadence, and I shouldn't have let him go. He is not ready for your world of compromised values, and diminished brain cells that you throw away like confetti. Am I speaking clearly to you?
RUSSELL: Yes, ma'am.
ELAINE: If you break his spirit, harm him in any way, keep him from his chosen profession which is law, Something you may not value but I do you will meet the voice on the other end of this telephone. And it will not be pretty. Do we understand each other?
RUSSELL: Yes. yes.
ELAINE: ( always the teacher ) I didn't ask for this role, but I'll play it. Now go do your best. "Be bold and mighty forces will come to your aide!" Goethe said that. It's not too late for you to be a person of substance. Get my son home safely, I'm glad we spoke. She hangs up. Russell hangs up, oddly affected and shook up.
WILLIAM: Some people get her. Some don't. Russell is still recovering. William feels embarrassed by his mother, once again.
RUSSELL: Your Mom kind of freaked me out.
WILLIAM: She means well. Still rattled, he takes the stage. We see the unbridled enthusiasm of the faces on the front row. A wave of cigarette lighters stretch out before them.
DICK: ( importantly ) From Troy, Michigan. Russell thwacks a couple chords. Audience thunders. He turns to other members, feeling chills. It's in these moments that everything else disappears. They bow and wave, still in darkness. each member seems to have his own fans. Dick lets all this play out before finally adding. Would you please welcome to Cleveland. More applause. This is very very very very fun. Lights come up. A full blast of audience love hits them right in the face, as they begin "Fever Dog." The band charges headlong into their set, as various fans are squeezed up out of the crowd and onto the stage.
WILLIAM: So when you play a great show like Dick enters with great urgency.
DICK: Okay. I need everybody's attention. The kid shuts his eyes. He knew this would happen. Alright, well, the rumors are true. The record company has sent a big-time manager here to try and talk you into replacing me. His name is Dennis Hope. I know you've all heard of him. He's got all the big bands. He's right outside. He wants five minutes with you right now. I think we gotta do Then bring him in. William shuts off his tape recorder.
RUSSELL: ( pissed ) Then bring him in. William shuts off his tape recorder.
JEFF: ( arrogant ) Bring him in! We'll send him out on a ( to William ) We'll finish on the way to Boston. You can fly home from Boston. William nods, exhausted, as Dick opens the door. In walks a small general of a man in a baseball t-shirt, well-trimmed beard and bowl cut. He holds the super-new Halliburton briefcase. He is DENNIS HOPE, 25. A man from the midwest, with a vision of the future of rock and roll. Already in his head are all the things that will come to pass. Higher ticket prices. Merchandising deals. Greater distribution and accounting of album sales. He shrugs hello to the band.
RUSSELL: ( to William ) We'll finish on the way to Boston. You can fly home from Boston. William nods, exhausted, as Dick opens the door. In walks a small general of a man in a baseball t-shirt, well-trimmed beard and bowl cut. He holds the super-new Halliburton briefcase. He is DENNIS HOPE, 25. A man from the midwest, with a vision of the future of rock and roll. Already in his head are all the things that will come to pass. Higher ticket prices. Merchandising deals. Greater distribution and accounting of album sales. He shrugs hello to the band.
DENNIS HOPE: ( completely unthreatening ) We already have a manager. He's been with us from the beginning. Hope appreciates the lack of small talk. He strides the room with the joyful enthusiasm of a kid who wants to build a fort. Russell watches, dismissive, holding his guitar.
RUSSELL: We already have a manager. He's been with us from the beginning. Hope appreciates the lack of small talk. He strides the room with the joyful enthusiasm of a kid who wants to build a fort. Russell watches, dismissive, holding his guitar.
DENNIS HOPE: Respectfully. We all have our roots. I believe in bands holding onto their roots. But those roots need to be augmented. I'm gonna tell you the truth - I may enrage some and enthrall others. I don't really give a fuck. Your manager here needs a manager. Example. If you hadn't run out on the contract in Phoenix, you could have sued over Russell's hand. but you left, negating the contract, forfeiting the deposit, and you effectively traveled a long way to pay that promoter. to electrocute you. Russell looks at his hand. We can all work together. Your damages have put you way into the hole for this tour. Right now you owe the record company more than you've got. But your record's selling, there's money to be made. So I've brought a plane in, we can add more shows to make-up the difference. Respectfully.
RUSSELL: ( immediately ) We travel by bus.
JEFF: Doris is the soul of this band! That bus has been our home since we were the Jeff Bebe Band. Dick watches his loyal band with admiration.
DENNIS: Hey man it's travel on a if I thought we'd make more money. You can play more dates with a plane.
RUSSELL: ( passionate ) Hey man, it's not about the money! It's about Playing music, and turning people The band agrees.
DENNIS HOPE: ( delicately ) Yes, of course. Clearly. Respectfully. But on the distasteful subject of money. Just know. You're making it right now and it's all He gestures to infinity. out there. I'm just talking about bringing it Bringing his hand together in a fist, he returns it, close to his heart. back here. The band looks at Dick, who manages not to be speechless.
DICK: But why should we pay we can do ourselves?
DENNIS HOPE: ( immediately ) Do you know how to keep from getting charged for the ice below the floorboards of Chicago Stadium? Do you know how to do a headlining tour, do you Claire Rothman at the L.A. Forum? Do you know Bobbi Cowan, Lisa Robinson, Jim Ladd, Frank ( look around, amazed ) This is Cleveland. Where's Kid Leo?? ( basics ) Do you know how you get a record not pressed but played? Do you know? I didn't invent the rainy day, man. I just own the best umbrella. He laughs. It's fun. Band members are now listening, curiously Because as much as you may believe that it will last forever, it does not last forever. your biggest fan right now soon they're going to go to college, gonna wanna buy clothes, spend that money some other way, and you know what? ( the final insult ) They'll tape your record from a friend's Russell stops fingering his guitar. Shot moves across the faces of the band members. Pain. You've got to take what you can, when you can, while you can. And you've got to do it now. That's what the big boys do. The band squirms, but listens. Because if you think Mick Jagger will still be out there trying to be a rock star at age fifty, you're sadly sadly Now he's reaching them. Their slackened roar-weary faces stare back at the young dynamo.
DICK: ( flustered ) Yeah, well. we'll think about what you said.
DENNIS HOPE: ( casually ) No no. You don't understand. I'll think about it. I'm not auditioning. I came here to decide whether I want to represent you. So I'll stand outside for a moment, and think about whether I want to stay. He leaves the room with a pleasant shrug. Stunned silence. William watches their body language. No one wants to talk first. Their faces read as who was that guy, and how can we talk him into staying?
RUSSELL: This is not us. This is He looks around for support. Grim nodding faces. This is too much. William watches as Russell reclines. Russell grabs Penny, and she falls into the seat next to him. We hear the loud oncoming sound of the plane in flight, as Dennis cooly asks for Penny's Do you mind?
DENNIS HOPE: Do you mind?
WILLIAM: Anyone seen Russell?
DICK: The Enemy! Door widens to reveal Russell.
RUSSELL: Hey! Welcome to the Road Crew Poker Party. This game's been going of for two years.
DICK: That's Mick - he's with The Who. That's John - with J. Geils. And that's Richard with the Eagles. and you know The Wheel.
THE WHEEL: Grumbling roadies continue playing. Like an old pro, the kid turns down a Cola-can hash-pipe. This hand is down to Dick, and a roadie named REG from Humble Pie.
DICK: Side proposition. For fifty dollars and a case of Heineken, I will put into the pot. three Lovely Ladies, Including the famous Penny Lane. the Band-Aids, who need to exit our tour before New York.
REG: It's a deal. Show 'em. Dick lays down three tens. Reg lays down three Kings. Dick Three Lovely Ladies. now in the custody of Humble Pie.
DICK: Three Lovely Ladies. now in the custody of Humble Pie.
REG: Alright, so we owe you fifty dollars and a case of Heineken. Embarrassed, Russell notices the kids face. He leans over, and speaks confidentially to him.
RUSSELL: Look. Nobody's feelings are getting hurt here. She already knows Leslie's coming To New York tomorrow. They all understand. This is the Circus. Everybody's trying not to go home. Nobody's saying goodbye.
WILLIAM: No, I got it.
RUSSELL: These are the Rules that come with every electric Guitar and every amplifier. They're not just written anywhere. Rock and roll, brother. No attachments. No boundaries. But the kid feels bad, and Russell knows it. Quit looking at me like that.
SABBATH ROADIE: Keep this hallway clear!
DICK: Happy Birthday from us. William watches her face as she reads the message on the cake. It hasn't sunk in yet. Russell produces a piece of hotel stationery. He reads a poem.
RUSSELL: So Penny our friend has gained another year. But long ago, she threw it in gear. She rocked the south The East and West. Could you please get off this endless tour Where we're Black Sabbath's fucking She says she's retired Though we've heard that before. She chose us. And in Penny Lane we trust She is a fan of this band. Much more so than us. William watches her face. Still enchanted, she hands out slices of the cake.
DENNIS HOPE: ( to the point ) Sorry the plane isn't bigger. It hits her. She looks at William for a clue. His truthful face does not look away. Now she knows. She turns to the others the plane isn't bigger? Shot moves in on Penny as she blinks just a little, cutting into the cake, still mugging for everybody, covering it all with a layer of sweet giddy laughter. Shot comes to rest behind her, her head turning to connect with band members. Each of them look away, nobody maintaining eye contact with her except the one she now doesn't look at. William. She blows out the candles, vamping Marilyn Monroe-style, and sucks off the frosting seductively, to cheers. Russell watches, as we push in on Penny. She notices all the luggage is gone, only her two cases remain by the door.
PENNY: So it wasn't a birthday party, it was a farewell. William doesn't answer. He looks at her, blowing some hair out of her face. You think you can fool me. I read you. I know what you're thinking.
WILLIAM: What's that?
PENNY: ( touched ) You're worried about me and Russell.
WILLIAM: Yeah. I gotta work on that.
PENNY: You're so sweet. God if there was more of you in him.
WILLIAM: Don't tell me this stuff. I want to like him.
PENNY: ( concerned for him ) Did you miss your test or something? He shakes his head. It's so beyond a test. I know I'm not on the plane, and I'm not going on some other band's bus. I mean, I could go with the Sabbath road crew, but that would be pathetic. The girls are all going with Humble Pie. If you could find out from Russell
WILLIAM: ( quietly ) Penny -
PENNY: ( a decision ) Forget it. I'm flying to New York myself. I have a bunch of partial tickets. I know his ex-wife, current girlfriend's going to be there - William's eyebrows rise. She examines his face for clues.
WILLIAM: I'm not sure that's a good idea.
PENNY: ( overlapping ) What? What are you saying? What do you know? Did Russell say something?
WILLIAM: I don't know anything.
PENNY: I know he wants me there. He gave me a cake. He wrote me that sweet poem.
WILLIAM: ( loud ) Wake up! Don't go to New York!
PENNY: What are you telling me? She looks so achingly beautiful to him.
WILLIAM: Because you're not who you said you were! I thought you were retired!
PENNY: You're right. I'm not who I said I was. I'm just like you. I love music, so this is my family. Some people like tractors, and they hang out with tractor people. What's the worst that could happen if I go to New York? "I get my little heart broken?"
WILLIAM: Oh no. Never She tears some leaves off a tree. He looks at her, unable to formulate a response.
PENNY: ( accusatory ) I'm sorry I told you so much. You have some way of making everybody tell you all their secrets.
WILLIAM: That's a good one. Tell me too much and make it my fault. He continues walking, she follows. They have ventured outside the backstage area, onto adjoining Boston farmland. The show booms in the background.
PENNY: Come on. You've seen what's happened. Russell and I fell in love. How much, I don't know. but this is the first time I've fallen for someone, really fallen. since Iggy, and I'm not happy about it.
WILLIAM: ( beat ) You slept with Iggy Pop!? She says nothing. ( sputtering ) Why don't you just tell me now, who else so when I go to the record store, I know who to be jealous of. Because right now, it's looking like the whole store! He's upset. She stares at him.
PENNY: ( teasing, defiant ) You'll remember me forever. I was there when you lost your virginity.
WILLIAM: ( upset at the memory ) So was Steely Dan! It was a crowded She laughs, can't help it. Then:
PENNY: You make me laugh. I think I'm gonna I thought we were going to Morocco! There's no Morocco. There's never been a Morocco. There's not even a Penny Lane. I don'teven know your real If I ever met a guy in the real world, who looked at me the way you just looked at me.
WILLIAM: ( continuing ) I thought we were going to Morocco! There's no Morocco. There's never been a Morocco. There's not even a Penny Lane. I don'teven know your real If I ever met a guy in the real world, who looked at me the way you just looked at me.
PENNY: If I ever met a guy in the real world, who looked at me the way you just looked at me.
WILLIAM: When and where does the real world occur? I am really. confused here. Fuck! All these Rules And all these sayings. and nicknames.
PENNY: You know you're too sweet for rock and roll.
WILLIAM: Where do you get off. where do you get "sweet?" I'm not sweet. I'm dark and mysterious and pissed-off and I could be very dangerous to all of you. I'm not sweet, and you should know that about me! I am The Enemy.
PENNY: You're not any of those things and that's what I love about you. William stands there in disbelief, unable to look at her.
WILLIAM: You fall in love to in love.
PENNY: I don't want to go home!
WILLIAM: Well, I have to go home. helped me.
PENNY: Yes I did.
WILLIAM: That disc-jockey in Arizona got a better interview than me. and he was asleep. He starts walking back to the stage. She follows. They are two very young kids thrashed by the seas of rock and roll. His frustration increases. She just doesn't get it. Applause in b.g. She grabs his shirt.
PENNY: Look. You should be happy for me. You don't know what he says to me in private. Maybe it is love. As much as it can be with someone who
WILLIAM: ( blurts ) sold you to Humble Pie for fifty dollars and a case of beer? I was He is instantly sorry. Her world privately crumbles, but she tries to remain stoic and carefree.
PENNY: What kind of beer?
POLEXIA: Who did this to us?
ELAINE: Then don't come home. Don't do this to me. If you're going to miss graduation, don't come home. She hangs up.
ELAINE: I'm sorry. I can't concentrate. Rock stars kidnaped my son.
RUSSELL: "New York. Just like I pictured it.
JEFF: " . skyscrapers and everything."
RUSSELL: ( to William ) We showed you America. We did everything but get you laid. Beat. They look at each other curiously. How much does the other guy know?
FAN: I'm from the Church of Lenny. We bow to his will and all that it represents - The King of the King of Kings.
RUSSELL: Make it out to - ?
FAN: Russell nods of course. He signs, as Dick approaches with a well-placed word in his right ear.
DICK: She's here. William turns, expecting to see Penny. Instead we see the long-limbed, athletic, pretty and collegiate LESLIE. She holds a Nikon camera, and snaps their picture.
JEFF: Your room is completely stocked, far away from any noisy ice machines, elevators or maid quarters. The air- conditioning is already on. And here is your security key by the way, you look stunning.
DICK: Your room is completely stocked, far away from any noisy ice machines, elevators or maid quarters. The air- conditioning is already on. And here is your security key by the way, you look stunning.
LESLIE: ( taking treatment for granted ) Nearby, the young journalist studies the tour's subtle shift in welcoming Leslie. Dick's New York side is almost military.
DICK: Bags in five! Cars leave for the party at six! William studies Leslie, everyone saying hello to her, everyone knowing the subtext. Nobody saying a word. William pulls his heavy bag out of the back of the limousine. The bag breaks, and the contents spill out onto the New York sidewalk. Bars of soap, ashtrays, hotel keys, crumpled paper, the contraband t-shirt, "Do Not Disturb" signs, notes, towels and thick telephone books from every city. You know. There are lighter souvenirs.
WILLIAM: ( embarrassed ) Well I kept thinking I was going home the next day
DICK: I did too. Fifteen years ago. All help him with his spilled souvenirs. Russell shares a private look with the kid. Nearby Leslie greets other band It's Super Zeppelin fan Ric Nunez.
WILLIAM: It's Super Zeppelin fan Ric Nunez.
RIC: ( whispers ) It's all happening. Zeppelin is at the Plaza. So's four other bands. They're partying up there right now. Sapphire, and Miss Penny Lane too. She wants you to call her. ( William reacts ) They're all staying under the name Emily Rugburn. William takes in the information, while regarding Ric's new custom shirt, which features the words to Zeppelin's "The Rain ( exiting with Leslie ) After the party. I'll come to your room - I promise. We'll talk. This is Leslie, by the way. Leslie, this is our wayward friend from Rolling Stone. The Enemy. They shake, she smiles randomly.
RUSSELL: ( exiting with Leslie ) After the party. I'll come to your room - I promise. We'll talk. This is Leslie, by the way. Leslie, this is our wayward friend from Rolling Stone. The Enemy. They shake, she smiles randomly.
CLERK: William Miller? Sir, you have an urgent call from a Mr. "Ben Fong-Torres." He's holding for you, right now. William takes the phone. The Clerk watches curiously as the kid adopts a new persona.
WILLIAM: ( deep voice ) INT. JANN'S OFFICE SAN FRANCISCO AFTERNOON On a rainy day in San Francisco, Ben Fong-Torres stands in the copy-strewn office of the young editor/publisher JANN WENNER. Several other editors are also present in the background, including David Felton with cigarette-holder in mouth, and a prep-school Fact-Checker named ALLISON.
INTERCUT: INT. JANN'S OFFICE SAN FRANCISCO AFTERNOON On a rainy day in San Francisco, Ben Fong-Torres stands in the copy-strewn office of the young editor/publisher JANN WENNER. Several other editors are also present in the background, including David Felton with cigarette-holder in mouth, and a prep-school Fact-Checker named ALLISON.
BEN: Congratulations. It's gonna be a cover. Neal Preston will shoot 'em next week in L.A. we need you back in San Francisco tomorrow. We'll finish the story here. William is overwhelmed with many emotions, fear topping the You can tell the band. Allison, our fact checker, needs you to transmit whatever you have of the story, tonight, now, along with your notes. There is a mojo at the Daily News they'll let us use -
WILLIAM: A mojo. It's a that transmits pages over the telephone. It only takes eighteen Minutes a page.
BEN: A mojo. It's a that transmits pages over the telephone. It only takes eighteen Minutes a page.
DENNIS HOPE: He's okay, he's with us - Hope shoves him past the Guard, and sends him into a very mature new world.
RUSSELL: Ah ha! There you are, ya little fucker. Come on
WILLIAM: I have some good news.
RUSSELL: I'll piss to that. Follow me.
RUSSELL: Dennis Hope took me aside, and wants to manage Me solo. Says to lose the band by February. Should I do it? I have no perspective anymore. William pees in silence. At what point do I just take the hint? Nobody Loves this band. People like us, do they love us?
WILLIAM: I do.
RUSSELL: ( then pissed ) Oh - get this - somebody told Penny Lane I sold her for beer. The network of these chicks! Like I would do that. It's Jeff who told her, right? Not you, right? None of these guys can just calm down and be a fuckin adult. Now she's here, freaking out. Leslie can smell it.
WILLIAM: ( exiting ) Wait. I've got something to tell - But he finds himself trailing Russell to the back room bar.
WILLIAM: You guys you guys You're gonna be on the cover of Rolling Stunned and overwhelmed, the band waits a beat, lets it sink in. and goes wild. Russell, stunned too, looks at the kid. It's big news. Jeff stands immediately, eyes moist, glass The cover of Rolling Stone. And we made it together. They don't just put somebody with one little hit on the cover of Rolling Stone Fucking Magazine, man. We made it. The band nods solemnly, importantly. Damn it I'm gonna enjoy this. The first time I bought that magazine The Beatles were on the cover. Four of them. Four of us. Together. They begin singing the then-current Dr. Hook and the Medicine Show hit, "The Cover of the Rolling Stone" to William.
JEFF: ( tears welling, instantly ) The cover of Rolling Stone. And we made it together. They don't just put somebody with one little hit on the cover of Rolling Stone Fucking Magazine, man. We made it. The band nods solemnly, importantly. ( continuing ) Damn it I'm gonna enjoy this. The first time I bought that magazine The Beatles were on the cover. Four of them. Four of us. Together. They begin singing the then-current Dr. Hook and the Medicine Show hit, "The Cover of the Rolling Stone" to William.
LESLIE: Who is that girl? She's creeping me out. She's not with any of you, is She's with me. And now Leslie has confirmation. A symphony of looks, as Dick gets to his feet and moves to confront Penny. Penny Lane's eyes fill and she runs out. Russell stands. and sees William also stand. William turns and follows her. Russell stands watching, and does not leave. We hear Elton John's "Mona Lisas and Mad Hatters."
POV WILLIAM: He looks in the backs of cabs. None of them her. Music continues. He runs down the streets, looking for her. Alone in New York City.
WILLIAM: Emily Rugburn, please.
WILLIAM: Hi. I'm a friend of Penny Lane's.
WILLIAM: Where is she? Room Service arrives. Some appetizers and a large expensive bottle of champagne on ice.
ENGLISH MUSICIAN: She's sick. Let's get out of here.
WILLIAM: What happened?
PENNY LANE: I'm not good at goodbyes. She sags. He grabs the phone. You're the last of my old-time friends. Polexia went to England with Deep Purple. can you believe that? Even Sapphire's out someplace else. All she left was her quaaludes.
WILLIAM: ( into phone ) Front desk? Please send a doctor. Room. what room? 703. 702. Both rooms, either room. This is Mr. Rugburn, Yes. My wife's had an accident with some quaaludes. Yes - I'll do that. The room has emptied out. Just them, and the remnants of a movable party that has moved elsewhere. Wake up! He struggles to get her on her feet. She tips over on her strappy platform shoes. He struggles to untie them.
PRINCIPAL: And now. out graduating class! Jane A peppy student bounds up and grabs her diploma. Elaine Miller watches dolefully in the audience.
PRINCIPAL: Victor Sanchez! Warm applause for another student who grabs his diploma. He takes off his mortar board to flash an American flag bandana. He raises his diploma in victory.
WILLIAM: "In the unlikely event of a water landing. "
PENNY: ". you will be required to wear a safety vest."
WILLIAM: Keep going.
PENNY: "Please place the overhead compartments. out in the seat in front of you."
WILLIAM: ( prompting ) "Seat and tray tables."
PENNY: be in their full and upright and locked positions. "
PRINCIPAL: And now. out William Miller. not present. Elaine applauds her son, stoically. It is a dagger through her heart. A sympathetic look from a nearby Mother continues the pain.
WILLIAM: "In the tragic event of a water 139 EXT. GRADUATION - DAY 139 The Principal shares a few thoughts:
PRINCIPAL: And to the class of 1973, we say Don't forget to remember yourself as you are today. Full of hope. and the dream that everything is possible. Remember this, twenty years from now, when we all own home computers and we all travel in shiny electrical cars that move swiftly, high above the They key to the future is keeping today alive forever. Elaine's head lowers slowly in a sea of happy parents. The day will never end. Mrs. Deegan slips into the seat next to First. Release the guilt. Second -
MRS. DEEGAN: First. Release the guilt. Second -
ELAINE: Please let there be only two, because I can't get past Number One.
MRS. DEEGAN: Second. Leave a little room for the other teachers in this world. He's out there looking for mentors.
ELAINE: He's got twelve of them. They're lined up. He's just tired of me.
PENNY: ". you will be required to." I'm tired. She is very groggy, as he holds her.
WILLIAM: Well. Now that I have your attention. And you may not remember this later, I just want to make it clear that. Hey! again ) I know you've heard this before. And I have never said this to anybody, not really - well, nobody who didn't legally have to say it back to me, but - I love you. And I have a hard time sharing you with all of rock and roll because I - why am I nervous? - You'll never remember this - HEY! - I love you, and I'm about to boldly go where. Many men have gone before. He kisses her. A doctor and nurse come crashing into the room. They push past William and pull Penny into the bathroom. He sits on the edge of the bed, looking into the bathroom, as they work on her. We hear Stevie Wonder. "My Cherie Amor."
DOCTOR: Your wife will be okay for now -
WILLIAM: Thank you Doctor.
DOCTOR: However, she says you're her brother.
WILLIAM: ( eyes report ) She's a little confused. The ice shifts in the champagne bucket nearby. The Doctor sizes up the situation.
DOCTOR: Nice champagne.
WILLIAM: I don't have a driver's license. With Tomorrow's my wedding anniversary. I'd prefer to take care of this without facing the dawn at the police station. So if you can find a way to get this girl - your wife - back home to her parents, I'd let you pay me anything you can afford. Because you don't appear to be related to the famous Rugburns of Rhode Island. His eyes flick to the champagne. The kid takes a hint, reaches over to the champagne.
DOCTOR: Tomorrow's my wedding anniversary. I'd prefer to take care of this without facing the dawn at the police station. So if you can find a way to get this girl - your wife - back home to her parents, I'd let you pay me anything you can afford. Because you don't appear to be related to the famous Rugburns of Rhode Island. His eyes flick to the champagne. The kid takes a hint, reaches over to the champagne.
WILLIAM: Happy Anniversary. The Doctor puts the champagne in his bag.
DOCTOR: She won't be good company, but keep her awake for another four hours.
PENNY: ( baring her soul ) When I was 14, my Mom and her boyfriend took me to a Rolling Stones concert - and I freaked out and I rushed up to the front of the stage and then a thousand people had the same idea at the same time and I was getting crushed. And I couldn't breathe and that thought flashed through me - almost like a car accident - I thought I might die. And it was in the middle of "Midnight Rambler" and Keith Richards saw me. And he came over, and came to the front of the stage, and he pulled me out. And they took me backstage and they gave me coke with ice and a - and a lemon. And I never went home.
WILLIAM: What about your Mom?
PENNY: She always said - "Marry Up." Marry someone grand. That's why she named me Lady.
WILLIAM: ( horrified ) She named you Lady?
PENNY: Lady Goodman.
WILLIAM: You never really get used to it, either.
PENNY: You never really get used to it, either.
WILLIAM: Well this this just explains He wishes it did. She rubs her stomach. It's a rocky morning. See you back in the real world.
PENNY: See you back there. She kisses his forehead, and takes off down the accordian leading to her plane. She drops her coat again, bending down to retrieve it.
WILLIAM: Hey Lady! Four Woman turn, but not Penny. She disappears.
STEWARDESS: Please extinguish all flammable items, and return all seats and tray tables to their full and upright locked positions. She mouths along with the words. There is no one to share the joke with. And then a few blurry memories come back to her. She gestures to him. understanding him more fully. as he 145 INT. AIRPORT TERMINAL - DAY 145 William walks alongside her plane, moving from terminal window to terminal window. Catching her glance again, he's picking up steam. What's she saying?
ON WINDOW: He us running through her fingers.
FADE OUT: FADE UP 147 INT. BAND PLANE DAY 147 Russell and William are in mid-interview. The kid's microphone is out. It's a little bit of a rough flight. William wears the same clothes.
FADE UP: 147 INT. BAND PLANE DAY 147 Russell and William are in mid-interview. The kid's microphone is out. It's a little bit of a rough flight. William wears the same clothes.
RUSSELL: Why didn't you come back to the party? Bob Dylan showed up. He was sitting at our table for. had to be an hour, right? Just Rapping. Bob Dylan! I kept looking for you. I was going to introduce you. The kid feels pain.
JEFF: What happened to you last night?
WILLIAM: It's a log story. A sharp jolt of turbulence. Russell begins pounding on the card table in rhythm.
RUSSELL: ( singing Buddy Holly ) "Peggy Sure. Peggy Sue. "
DICK: "Pretty pretty pretty pretty Peggy Sue. " A moment of laughter, and then bam. Jeff's drink rises and suspends briefly in mid-air. The plane takes another mighty We shouldn't be here.
RUSSELL: "Pretty pretty pretty pretty Peggy Sue. " A moment of laughter, and then bam. Jeff's drink rises and suspends briefly in mid-air. The plane takes another mighty We shouldn't be here.
JEFF: We shouldn't be here.
RUSSELL: Doris, we miss you! Fear is creeping in around the edges. William, already an uneasy flier, looks down.
PILOT'S VOICE: This is Craig, your pilot. It appears we've caught the edge of that electrical storm we were trying to outrun. Buckle up tight now. We're gonna do our best to getcha out of this. The rocking of the plane worsens, as all buckle up.
JEFF: "Electrical storm?"
RUSSELL: ( strapping in for a roller coaster ) Rock and roll. The sky darkens abruptly. William looks up, increasingly nervous, stares straight ahead. The plane suddenly drops and stabilizes. Everyone is silent but Russell. Wooooooo Baby! A moment later, an ashen-faced CO-PILOT emerges, balancing himself with hands on the ceiling of the shuddering plane.
DENNIS HOPE: I can't breathe. Push in on Russell. We hear a series of unfamiliar electrical sounds. The plane screwballs through the sky.
JEFF: I can't breathe. Push in on Russell. We hear a series of unfamiliar electrical sounds. The plane screwballs through the sky.
DICK: And everyone thinks it's so glamorous out here.
LARRY: ( oddly detached ) He just told us we're gonna die.
JEFF: ( insecurities running wild ) We're gonna crash in Elvis' hometown
RUSSELL: Shut up.
JEFF: we can't even C'mon Dennis, get us a better city. Nervous laughter. Another sheet of hail hits the plane.
RUSSELL: C'mon Dennis, get us a better city. Nervous laughter. Another sheet of hail hits the plane.
LESLIE: Oh my God.
RUSSELL: If something should happen. I love all of you. I don't think we have to do the secrets thing. The plane shakes. Now lightening strikes very close. A flashing wall of electricity rolls through the plane and evaporates with a burning smell still in the air. In the I once hit a man in Dearborn, Michigan. A hit-and-run. I hit him and kept on going. I don't know if he's alive or dead, but I'm sorry.
DENNIS HOPE: I once hit a man in Dearborn, Michigan. A hit-and-run. I hit him and kept on going. I don't know if he's alive or dead, but I'm sorry.
LESLIE: ( gripped with fear ) Oh my God. The plane wildly rises, and falls. It stops for a moment. A strange smooth patch.
DICK: I love you all too, and you're my family. Especially since Marna left me. But if I ever took an extra dollar or two, here and there, it was because I knew I'd earned it.
RUSSELL: I did too.
JEFF: I did too.
LARRY: I waited until you broke up with her. But me too.
JEFF: I also slept with Leslie, when you were fighting.
RUSSELL: You. slept with Jeff?
LESLIE: Yes, but it didn't count. It was the summer we decided to be free of all And you say you "love me."
RUSSELL: ( to Jeff ) And you say you "love me."
JEFF: ( the truth ) I don't love you, man. I never did.
RUSSELL: Please. Enough.
JEFF: NONE of us love you. You act above us. You ALWAYS HAVE!!
LARRY: Finally. The truth.
JEFF: You just held it over us, like you light leave. like we're lucky to be with you. And we had to live with it. I had to live with you, and now I might die with you and it's not fucking fair. William watches, catatonic.
RUSSELL: ( to Larry and Ed ) You hate me? You too? Larry stares at him. Ed says nothing. All this love. All this loyalty. ( incredulous, giddy ) And you don't even like me.
JEFF: And I'm still in love with you Leslie. Bam. The plane is pulling sideways, and dropping altitude.
LESLIE: I don't want to hear anymore. Shut up! Shut up! Shut up!
RUSSELL: ( to Jeff ) Whatever happens, you're dead.
JEFF: Don't be self-righteous, Russell, not now. You were sleeping with Penny, that groupie. Last summer, and up until yesterday. Why don't you tell Leslie THAT? Russell tries to get up and attack him. The force keeps him in his seat. He yells. Loud.
DENNIS: ( freaking out ) I quit. The turbulence worsens. William finds his mouth saying emotional words he cannot control.
WILLIAM: "That groupie?" She was a All she did was love your band. And you all you used her, all of you. You used her and threw her away. She almost died last night, while you were with Bob Dylan. You're always talking about the fans, the fans, the fans. She was your biggest fan and you threw her away. And if you can't see that, that's your biggest problem. Russell and Jeff stare at each other. The plane is rocking very very hard. Leslie is crying.
ED: I'm gay. They all turn to the silent drummer. ( It's his first spoken dialogue of the movie. ) The plane pops out from below the clouds. Sunshine spikes through the embattled windows of the plane, as they float downwards to the city of Tupelo, Mississippi. A very very uneasy silence fills the plane. No one can look at each other. Out bursts the Co-Pilot, giddy with victory.
JEFF: Well, I think we can build on this new Boom. Russell attacks him, and they're pulled apart. The band continues moving forward, arriving at a fork in the airport terminals. William stops. This is where he must part company. He stands at the mouth of the next terminal, as the band continues, unaware he's split off. He watches their backs, they've forgotten him. Then Russell turns, sensing something missing. William. All now stop and turn. Still shell-shocked, they summon a pre- occupied but heartfelt goodbye. William waves. Music ON AIRPLANE DEPARTURE SCHEDULE William's finger finds San Francisco.
RECEPTIONIST: Leave your package at the desk.
WILLIAM: I'm not a messenger. I'm one of your writers. William Miller. He is zombie-tired, with heavy duffel case and his orange bag.
BEN: You're William Miller? The secret emerges not with a bang but with a slight and tired nod of the head.
WILLIAM: ( putting it all together ) Oh baby. Ben leads him into the office of Jann Wenner, the editor- 152 INT. JANN WENNER'S OFFICE DAY 152 William sits. Editors are feverishly discussing the next issue. The big concerns of a national magazine are in the air. Everyone is focused and quick. The conversation is machine- gun like. Jann Werner turns to the kid.
BEN: ( putting it all together ) Oh baby. Ben leads him into the office of Jann Wenner, the editor- 152 INT. JANN WENNER'S OFFICE DAY 152 William sits. Editors are feverishly discussing the next issue. The big concerns of a national magazine are in the air. Everyone is focused and quick. The conversation is machine- gun like. Jann Werner turns to the kid.
JANN: We can't run this piece. The kid's eyes travel to his story a stack of fuzzy-looking sheets on the table.
BEN: You obviously saw more than you wrote about. After eight days on the road with these guys.
DAVID FELTON: And where are did you want to write? Because this reads like what they wanted you to What happened to your highly-touted think piece on limitations of a middle- level Band in the face of success? William sits speechless. It's sinking in. Failure. Conversation continues at a fast pace:
JANN: And where are did you want to write? Because this reads like what they wanted you to What happened to your highly-touted think piece on limitations of a middle- level Band in the face of success? William sits speechless. It's sinking in. Failure. Conversation continues at a fast pace:
BEN: What happened to your highly-touted think piece on limitations of a middle- level Band in the face of success? William sits speechless. It's sinking in. Failure. Conversation continues at a fast pace:
JANN: We can push up Chet's Who cover -
FACT CHECKER: Good 'cause it's going to take me three days to get through this research. It's all handwritten, on little slips. Plus, they all refer to woman as "chicks." I mean, as a woman I have a problem with that. I know it's a side It's a "puff piece." you fell for 'em. It happens. A relationship forms. You want them to like you. holder ) Happened with me and Charlie Manson. He was a very charming. lively. Felton catches himself swooning. The other are staring at him. He snaps out of it. . mass-murderer.
DAVID FELTON: ( sympathetic, loquacious ) It's a "puff piece." you fell for 'em. It happens. A relationship forms. You want them to like you. ( wistful, chewing cigarette holder ) Happened with me and Charlie Manson. He was a very charming. lively. Felton catches himself swooning. The other are staring at him. He snaps out of it. . mass-murderer.
WILLIAM: Please let me finish it. Give me tonight to work on it.
FACT CHECKER: Chet's piece is all fact-checked and Get some sleep. We'll do another story sometime. We'll get you a kill fee.
JANN: ( to William ) Get some sleep. We'll do another story sometime. We'll get you a kill fee.
FACT CHECKER: His research is all on paper. Did I say that?
WILLIAM: Ben. You told me to It's not finished.
FACT CHECKER: That's being charitable. Ben looks at the kid, then at Jann. Jann scans the kid's face for a beat, nods.
JANN: Let him use the big office. It's where Hunter used to write. William rises, gratefully. He shakes Jann's hand.
FACT CHECKER: ( pointed re: his age ) You can type.
WILLIAM: Yes. It took it in
LESTER BANGS: Aw, man. See, friendship is the booze they feed you. They want you to get drunk on feeling like you belong.
WILLIAM: ( ruefully ) Well, it was fun.
LESTER BANGS: They make you feel cool. And hey. I met you. You are not "cool."
WILLIAM: I know. Even when I though I was, I knew I wasn't.
LESTER BANGS: That's because we are uncool! And while women will always be a problem for guys like us, most of the great art in the world is about that very problem. Good-looking people have no spine! Their art never lasts! They get the girls, but we're smarter.
WILLIAM: I can really see that now.
LESTER BANGS: Yeah, great art is about conflict and pain and guilt and longing and love disguised as sex, and sex disguised as love. and let's face it, you got a big head start.
WILLIAM: I'm glad you were home.
LESTER BANGS: I'm always home! I'm
WILLIAM: Me too!
LESTER BANGS: ( leveling ) The only true currency in this bankrupt world if what we share with someone else when we're uncool.
WILLIAM: ( distraught ) I feel better
LESTER: My advice to you. I know you think those guys are your friends. You want to be a true friend to them? William takes a deep breath. Looks at the research cassettes and notebooks. The empty page.
LESTER BANGS: Be honest and You're doing great. Call me later is you want. I'm always up.
FELTON: Read me the opening line.
BEN: ( reads aloud ) "I am flying high over Tupelo, Mississippi, with America's hottest band, and we are all about to die."
FELTON: ( as if sampling wine ) Dark. Lively.
BEN: Yeah, and it gets better. Did this all really happen? William sleeps restlessly nearby, mouth agape, sitting upright in a plastic chair.
FACT CHECKER: ( jealously reaches for manuscript ) Give it to me. I'll call and check the quotes.
JEFF: Look. Let's just piece together our information. because the fact-checker asked us all about different parts of the story.
TONY: What did he write about? What's he So what?
JEFF: So what?
RUSSELL: So what?
JEFF: So what? We come off like amateurs. some average band. trying to come to grips, jealous and fighting and breaking up - we're buffoons!
RUSSELL: Maybe we just don't see ourselves the way we really are.
JEFF: He was supposed to be our friend.
RUSSELL: ( ruefully, remembering ) I told him to write what he wanted. All eyes look to Russell.
TONY: ( to Russell ) By the way, he has you on acid, screaming "I Am A Golden God" from a fan's rooftop.
RUSSELL: ( immediately remembering ) Oh my God.
JEFF: They used him to fuck us.
RUSSELL: ( still back at "Golden God" ) I didn't say "Golden God." Or did I?
DICK: We never took him seriously, and now it's serious.
RUSSELL: I liked him as a person.
JEFF: He was never a "person!" He was a Russell nods. He looks at Silent Ed, drumming soundlessly on a rubber pad.
RUSSELL: You. You had the right idea all along. Ed silently nods thanks.
DENNIS HOPE: ( nervously ) How about the plane flight?
DICK: It's all in there. But don't worry, it's all unspecific who say what. No names are mentioned in the more embarrassing sequences, it's just completely obvious who's who! We're I forgot he was there.
RUSSELL: I forgot he was there.
DENNIS HOPE: Well, they haven't talked to Russell - he can always deny the key stuff to the fact checker. Then they can't print it.
JEFF: ( brightening ) Is that true?
DENNIS HOPE: It's war, my friend. If you'd met me earlier, he would have never been on the Dennis hands Russell the phone. He'll live.
FACT CHECKER: The band just denied 90% of the story. It's a fabrication. Everyone looks at William, who is speechless and confused. Their congratulations stop on a dime. The fact checker can't resist twisting the knife a little. You weren't honest. And worse, you wasted our time.
WILLIAM: Did you talk to
FACT CHECKER: Russell Hammond is the one who denied We're going with the Who - ! The kid has been sandbagged. The machine of a big-time magazine whirs into action on another story, as the cluster moves down the hall.
BEN: ( darkly ) ( one last shot, to William ) We're going with the Who - ! The kid has been sandbagged. The machine of a big-time magazine whirs into action on another story, as the cluster moves down the hall.
FACT CHECKER: ( one last shot, to William ) We're going with the Who - ! The kid has been sandbagged. The machine of a big-time magazine whirs into action on another story, as the cluster moves down the hall.
SOMEONE'S VOICE: He's just some William sits there, as only David Felton stay behind, brandishing his cigarette-holder. He sits down next to the Well, I believe you. He looks at the kid, decides to offer a personal parable. Jim Morrison once came to my house and drank a beer. The beer is still on my mantle. I'm 35 years old with Jim Morrison's beer as a shrine. I wanted to be Earnest Hemingway. Instead. I have Jim Morrison's beer. live with it ) If you didn't make your story up, good for you. If you did make it up. good for you. The kid looks at him, too tired and still in shock. Say something, so I know you're alive.
FELTON: Well, I believe you. He looks at the kid, decides to offer a personal parable. Jim Morrison once came to my house and drank a beer. The beer is still on my mantle. I'm 35 years old with Jim Morrison's beer as a shrine. I wanted to be Earnest Hemingway. Instead. I have Jim Morrison's beer. live with it ) If you didn't make your story up, good for you. If you did make it up. good for you. The kid looks at him, too tired and still in shock. Say something, so I know you're alive.
WILLIAM: He exits.
FELTON: Powerful word. Strong. Final.
RUSSELL: I feel bad.
SAPPHIRE: Well, at least you feel. That puts you in a higher class of asshole. They eat in silence. Sapphire looks around. The new breed of groupies eye her, as they cruise Russell on the periphery. They're bolder, flashier. She eyes them back with seniority.
RUSSELL: What did I do?
SAPPHIRE: Well - you can do what the big boys The girls still circle Russell nearby. He's unaware.
RUSSELL: The girls still circle Russell nearby. He's unaware.
SAPPHIRE: You believe these new girls? None of 'em take birth control, and they eat all the steak. She looks sadly at her plate of vegetables. An ever-sharp mind in last night's clothes, she commands Russell's respect. They don't even know what it id to be a fan! To blindly love some silly piece of music. or some band so much that it hurts. please, they're all just after the money. Shoo Go rob a bank! It's more honest!
RUSSELL: Is Penny okay?
SAPPHIRE: The Quaalude Incident. Yeah, it wasn't pretty. She could have died. I always warned her about letting too many guys fall in love with her. I guess I was On of 'em saved her life. Russell nods.
RUSSELL: Well, it's finally over with Leslie. I'm going to call her.
SAPPHIRE: Let her retire. You want to lock her up in a house in Michigan? Please. Write her a song someday. She deserves it. Something about that girl brought out the best in a lot of. . pretty average people. She deserves Russell stares into his crew meal, nodding a little. . because something tells me twenty years from now, we'll remember her. and not much else. Russell smiles to himself, knows it's true. Dick passes, placing hands on Russell's shoulders, massaging a little.
DICK: Have a good vacation. I hope the band stays together. Before it all went down the shitter, it was starting to get really good. Dick claps Russell on the back, and moves on. He turns to I'm not going to blame myself. I do make people happy. They just shouldn't get to know me. 'cause it appears to spoil everything.
RUSSELL: I'm not going to blame myself. I do make people happy. They just shouldn't get to know me. 'cause it appears to spoil everything.
SAPPHIRE: Don't be so easy on yourself.
RUSSELL: What gives you the right to get this personal with me.
SAPPHIRE: Let's not reminisce.
ANITA: He looks at her. He feels like he's on Mars, and she looks like a Martian.
ANITA: You guys, I'll deadhead back later. I think I'm needed.
FEMALE ATTENDANT: You have a good day! Anita looks in her brother's face.
ANITA: You look awful, but that's You're living your life! You're finally free of. her.
WILLIAM: Hey. I'll take off work. Let's have an adventure together. You and me, finally. Anywhere you want to go. Anywhere in the world.
ANITA: Hey. I'll take off work. Let's have an adventure together. You and me, finally. Anywhere you want to go. Anywhere in the world.
ANITA: This is not my idea of a good time.
WILLIAM: Just get me to my bed.
ANITA: ( resigned ) I'll deal with her. William whistles again. Mom meets them at the door. She looks at her trashed son who has finally come home. For the first time, she hugs Anita first, and it's not lost on Anita. It's a clumsy neck-hug, neither wanting to commit. The kid passes to his Mother's left, with suitcase, intentionally nudging her into his sister. Anita takes this as an aggressive act of love, and hugs her mother back. Tears stream down Mom's face. Their cheeks touch. Mom pulls away, and sees her own tears on Anita's face. Thinking that she's also crying, she grabs a tissue for them both.
ANITA: ( so worried ) What are we going to do about him?
ELAINE: I don't know. Whatever happened to him, I just wish it could have happened to me.
ANITA: The magazine killed his story. Now they really hug, Anita gulping back real tears. William watches them bonding over the oddest thing - his failure. William goes into the bedroom, the final three feet to sleep, and shuts the door. A hand places a hotel sign on the door - DO NOT DISTURB. Slight push in.
ON BED: He collapses with all his clothes on, almost instantly asleep. His walls, just as he left them, boast a pantheon of rock heroes. with a very lonely Abraham Lincoln ( or Atticus Finch ) in the center.
RUSSELL: Hi, I'm Russel Hammond.
SECRETARY: You're here regarding?
RUSSELL: My life.
RUSSELL: I don't care what happens. I don't care if you put us on the cover. But you sent us a kid and. and he was a fan. And we all made friends with him - absolutely, to get a good story. But then we actually liked him. We thought he's. show us our lives in some mythic way and I guess. we're not mythic. We panicked.
JANN: You denied most of the story.
RUSSELL: Yeah, well, here's the problem with the truth. It's too true -
BEN: Well, we appreciate the visit. The last time an artist came here, it was Buddy Miles and he punched me.
RUSSELL: I'm not punching anybody. I am personally, as of 2 pm yesterday, on a voyage of self-reinvention. This is about William Miller. He lives with us, he lost his virginity, he saw us at our worst, appreciated our best, he saved two lives, including mine. he smuggled about a half-pound of pot into Boston, and we never even told him - Nearby, David Felton looks at another editor, raising an we told him too much, we told him everything. He almost died with us over Tupelo. if the band survives him, it'll be a miracle. but you know, he tried to keep up, and that's a journalist to me.
JANN: It's too late. We're going with a different cover.
RUSSELL: ( immediately ) Thank God. But Russell looks around at the numerous portraits if dead legendary rock stars, fixing on the one photo closest to all of them, a very vulnerable-looking Janis Joplin. A second thought. You tell me it's too late. But I could go back to my hotel room and. and O.D. tonight and something tells me you'd find a way to put me on the cover of the next issue. Am I right? He looks at their faces. They cannot disagree. I'm learning the game. ( beat, shrug ) We fucked up. We made friends with him.
BEN: Next time we'll all be more Maybe so. But God forbid, the day comes when selling yourself is as important as the music you make. wall ) You might have died at the right time, my friend.
RUSSELL: Maybe so. But God forbid, the day comes when selling yourself is as important as the music you make. wall ) You might have died at the right time, my friend.
JANN: Thank you for visiting. Good luck.
RUSSELL: Do what you want, but the story is LONG SHOT RUSSELL at the entrance. Raises his hand. Good evening!
ANITA: They're called pancakes. Who knows when we'll be together again. Splurge. It's what most people call breakfast. Mom looks at her children, and takes a breath.
ELAINE: I went through your records. And I found a song to play for you. She goes to the stereo and puts on a record. The two children eye each other - what's coming next? ( Song to be chosen ) The two kids eye each other again. Self-consciously avoiding their gaze, Mom sits and toys with her breakfast. It's a song she clearly wants them to hear. It's a song from the heart. They look at her, amazed. Elaine looks up, regards her family. Somehow they're back at this table. They continue eating 164 ON SIDEWALK 164 Bam. A bundle of bound Rolling Stone Magazines lands on the newsstand pavement with a thud. Someone reaches in to cut the cord, as the magazines puff up into view. It's the new issue, with Russell Hammond on the cover. The title: Stillwater Runs Deep. Just another stack of magazines waiting to be places in the racks.
FADE OUT: Music segues to Led Zeppelin's "Four Sticks." Penny Lane's sleeping Polaroid shots of our characters, featuring a few Writers : Cameron Crowe
THE END: Writers : Cameron Crowe
