RADIO: On a dark screen an immense amber light appears and an electric humming begins. The eerie light glows brighter and illuminates a single huge number11. We hear static and a large vertical band of red floats mysteriously across the Pulling back slowly, we watch the glowing band traverse back and forth over the amber light and past more numbers appearing 70. 90. 110. 130. And we begin to hear voicesstrange songs, fading conversations and snatches of music drifting with static. Pulling back further, we realize it is a car radio filling the screen and radio stations we're hearing, until the indicator stops. There's a pause.and suddenly we are hit by a blasting-out-of-the-past, Rocking and Rolling, turn-up- the-volume, pounding Intro to a Vintage 1962 Golden Week-End Radio Showback when things were simpler and the music was And now a wolf howl shatters through time as the legendary Wolfman Jack hits the airwaves, his gravel voice shrieking and growling while the music pumps and grinds.
WOLFMAN: Awwrigght, baay-haay-baay! I got a oldie for yagonna knock ya right on de flowabaay-haay-hee-baay!
TERRY: Hey, whadaya say? Curt? Last night in town, you guys gonna have a little bash before you leave?
STEVE: The Moose have been lookin' for you all day, man.
CURT: ( sarcastic ) Oh great.
TERRY: Whadaya got, whadaya got? Wowtwo thousand dollars. Two thousand doll
STEVE: Mr. Jenning couldn't find you, so he gave it to me to give to you. He said he's sorry it's so late, but it's the first scholarship the Moose Lodge has given out. Oh yeah, he says they're all very proud of you.
CURT: Well. ah. why don't you hold onto it for a while?
STEVE: What's with you? It's yours! Take it! I don't want it.
TERRY: I'll take it.
CURT: Steve. Ah, I think we'd better have a talk. I've gotten-
STEVE: Your sister calls. I'll talk to you Now, Steve! Let her wait.
CURT: Now, Steve! Let her wait.
STEVE: Okay, make it short and sweet.
CURT: Yeah, well. Listen. I. I don't think I'm going tomorrow.
STEVE: What! Come on, what are you talking I don't know. I was thinking I might wait for a year. go to city
CURT: I don't know. I was thinking I might wait for a year. go to city
STEVE: You chicken fink.
CURT: Wait, let me explain
STEVE: You can't back out now! After all we went through to get accepted. We're finally getting out of this turkey town and now you want to crawl back into your celllook, I gotta talk to Laurie. Now take it. We're leaving in the morning. Okay? You wanna end up like John? You can't stay seventeen forever.
STEVE: You wanna end up like John? You can't stay seventeen forever.
CURT: I just want some time to think. What's the rush? I'll go next year.
STEVE: We'll talk later.
RADIO: ( singing ) "Here comes the WolfmanWolfman Oh, We're gonna rock and roll ourselves to death baby. You got the Wolfman Jack Show!
GIRL: Hi John! Not too good, huh?
JOHN: Not too good, huh?
CURT: Why is it every girl that comes around here is ugly? Or has a boyfriend? Where is the dazzling beauty I've been searching for all my life?
JOHN: I know what you mean. The pickin's are really gettin' slim. The whole strip is shrinking. Ah, you know, I remember about five years ago, take you a couple of hours and a tank full of gas just to make one circuit. It was really somethin.'
CURT: Hey, John. Someone new in town.
JOHN: You gonna go after him?
CURT: You gonna go after him?
JOHN: Hey, listen, Professor, if he can't find me, then he ain't worth racin', The big shot!
CURT: The big shot!
BUDDA: A cherry-vanilla coke and a chocolate mountain. Anything else you want, If there is you let me know now. Just honk and I'm yours.
BUDDA: One friesgrab it before I drop it.
STEVE: Where was I?
LAURIE: Um, how you thought high school romances were goofy and we started going together just because you thought I was kinda cute and funny, but then you suddenly realized you were in love with me, it was serious. and ah. oh, you were leadin' up to somethin' kinda big.
STEVE: You make it sound like I'm giving dictation. Well, seriously, what I meant was, that ah. since we do care for each other so much, and since we should really consider ourselves as adults. Now, I, ah. could I have a couple of those fries?
STEVE: Ah, where was I?
LAURIE: ."consider ourselves adults".
STEVE: Right. right. anyway, I thought maybe, before I leave, we could ah. agree that. that seeing other people while I'm away can't possibly hurt, you know?
LAURIE: You mean dating other people?
STEVE: I think it would strengthen our relationship. Then we'd know for sure that we're really in love. Not that there's any doubt.
LAURIE: I think you're right. I mean, we're not kids anymore, and it's silly to think that when we're three thousand miles apart we shouldn't be able to see other people and go out.
STEVE: Laurie, now, listen, I didn't ask for that back. I think that.
LAURIE: I know. I just sort of think it's juvenile now. I'll keep it at home. It's less conspicuous there.
STEVE: You don't want to wear it?
LAURIE: I didn't say that. I understand and I'm not upset. I mean, I can't expect you to be a monk or something while you're away.
TERRY: .and I have a really sharp record collection. I even have "Pledging My Love" by Johnny Ace. Anyway, how can you love Nelson when he's going out with Marilyn Gator. Since he dumped on you maybe we could
BUDDA: He didn't dump on me, you little dip. Hi, Steve!
TERRY: She's a little conceitedjust playing hard to get.
STEVE: Listen, I came over here to talk to you about
TERRY: Any time, buddy. I'm your man. Nothing I like better than chewing the rug with a pal. You talk, I'll listen. I'm all ears. Shoot.
STEVE: Shut up.
TERRY: Terry, I'm going to let you take care of my car while we're awayat least until Christmas. I'm afraid if I leave it with my
STEVE: Terry, I'm going to let you take care of my car while we're awayat least until Christmas. I'm afraid if I leave it with my
STEVE: What's wrong?
CURT: Hey, siswhat's wrong?
LAURIE: Meanwhile, they watch Terry as Steve explains to him about the car.
STEVE: Now listen, only 30 weight Castrol- R. I've written the tire pressure and stuff on a pad in the glove compartment. Are you listening? What's wrong, he's crying!
CURT: What's wrong, he's crying!
TERRY: I can't. believe. it. I don't know what to say. I'll. love and protect this car until death do us part. This is a superfine machine. This may even be better than Daryl Starbird's superfleck moonbird. It is better than Daryl Starbird's.
TERRY: Budda, how would you like to go to the drive-in movies with me?
BUDDA: You've got to be kidding!
TERRY: Would I kid you about a thing like that? I want you to know that something has happened to me tonight that is going to change everything. I've got a new.
TERRY: Car!! All right, who's the wise Oh, Johnverrry funny.
JOHN: Hey, did she do that to you?
STEVE: Let's get going. It seems like we've spent most of our lives in this parking lot.
TERRY: Hey, Curt, let's bomb around, I wanna try out my new wheels!
CURT: I'd like to, Toad, but I'm going with Steve and Laurie to the hop. I'd just slow you down anyway.
TERRY: Yeah, tonight things are going to be Hey, wait a minute, you're goin' to the Hop? The Freshman Hop?
JOHN: Hey, wait a minute, you're goin' to the Hop? The Freshman Hop?
CURT: Oh, come on, man. That place is for kids. You two just got your ass out of there. Don't go back now.
JOHN: Oh, come on, man. That place is for kids. You two just got your ass out of there. Don't go back now.
CURT: You ain't got no emotions?
TERRY: We're gonna remember all of the good times, is what we're gonna do.
JOHN: Yeah, well, go.
CURT: Why don't you come with us?
JOHN: Bullshit, man!
CURT: Come on. For old time's sake.
JOHN: Yeah, yeah. Well, listen. You go. Go ahead, Curtsy, baby. You go on over there and you remember all the good times you won't be having. I ain't goin' off to some goddamned fancy college. I'm stayin' right here. Havin' fun, as usual.
TERRY: Jesus, Milner, you're in a great mood tonight.
CURT: What's the matter John? Did I say somethin' wrong? I'm sorry.
JOHN: Ah, man, it's nothin'.
CURT: Well, we'll see you later, okay?
JOHN: We'll all do somethin' together. You know, before Steve leaves.
CURT: We'll all do somethin' together. You know, before Steve leaves.
JOHN: Okay, wait a minute. Now, you're not I don't know.
CURT: I don't know.
MAN: This is Joe. in Little Rock, way down in the Valley.
WOLFMAN: You callin' from Little Rock, Long distance.
MAN: Long distance.
WOLFMAN: My, my, my. listen, man, what kind of entertainment you got in that All we got is you.
MAN: All we got is you.
JOHN: Hey, Zudo.
PAZUDO: Hey, Milner.
JOHN: Hey, man, what happened to your What happened to your flathead?
PAZUDO: What happened to your flathead?
JOHN: What happened to your flathead?
PAZUDO: Ah, your mother!
JOHN: Your mother. Hey, we been talkin' about you.
PAZUDO: Your mother. Hey, we been talkin' about you.
JOHN: Yeah. There's a very wicked '55 Chevy lookin' for you.
PAZUDO: Yeah. There's a very wicked '55 Chevy lookin' for you.
JOHN: Yeah, I know.
PAZUDO: Watch out for the cop that's in Jerry's Cherry.
JOHN: Yeah. All right, thanks.
GUY: Hey, Toad.
GUY: ( leaning out the window ) Is that you in that beautiful car? ( Terry nods modestly ) Geez, what a waste of machinery.
GIRL: Hey, kid.
WOLFMAN: Ah, yeah, listen, you got any more of those secret agent spy-scopes?
MAN: Hit parade on the stethoscope?
WOLFMAN: No. No, the secret agent spy-scope, man. That pulls in the moon, the sky and the planets. and the satellites and the little bitty space men.
MAN: You must have the wrong number,
WOLFMAN: Wolfman cuts into "Why Do Fools Fall in Love." Curt is laughing in the back of the car, as he listens to the ever- present D.J. Steve slows the Edsel to a stop at the next light. Curt glances over at a classic white '56 Thunderbird and sits up. In the T-bird, a girl watches him. Blonde, beautiful, her hair, backlit by a used car lot, seems to glow, making her look almost ethereal. Curt doesn't move, as if afraid of scaring her away. She smiles faintly-then says something, so softly it's lost.
CURT: Curt struggles to lower his window. She repeats it, but he can't hear. The light changes. She smiles once more and is
CURT: ( shouting ) What? What?!!!
STEVE: We didn't say anything.
CURT: Quick! Hang a right!
STEVE: What? Why?
CURT: Cut over to G Street, I've just seen a vision! She was a goddess. You've got to catch her!
STEVE: I didn't see anything.
LAURIE: We're not going to spend the night chasing girls for you.
CURT: I'm telling you, this was the most perfect, dazzling creature I've ever She's gone. Forget it.
STEVE: She's gone. Forget it.
CURT: She spoke to me. She spoke to me, right through the window. I think she said, "I love you."
CURT: That means nothing to you people? You have no romance, no soul? She someone wants me. Someone roaming the streets wants me! Will you turn the corner?
PARKING LOT: Big John sits in his deuce coupe, backed into the parking lot of the Acme Fall-out Shelter Co., the prime spot in town for girl watching. A guy in wrap-around dark glasses leans by the car next to John. They watch a group of laughing girls cruise by in a Studebaker.
JOHN: Oh, oh. Later.
GUY: John turns on his lights and swings the deuce coupe out into the flow of traffic, after the Studebaker. John accelerates and pulls alongside the Studebaker. The girl in the front seat rolls down her window. John grins and yells over at the carload of cuties.
JOHN: Hey, you're new around here. Where're you from?
FIRST GIRL: Turlock? You know a guy named Frank No. Does he go to Turlock High?
JOHN: Turlock? You know a guy named Frank No. Does he go to Turlock High?
FIRST GIRL: No. Does he go to Turlock High?
JOHN: Well, he used to. He goes to J.C. Do you go to J.C.?
FIRST GIRL: Do you go to J.C.?
JOHN: Yeah, sure.
FIRST GIRL: Oh, wow! Do you know Guy Phillips?
JOHN: Yeah, sure. I got him in a class.
FIRST GIRL: He's so boss.
JOHN: How would you like to ride around with me for awhile?
FIRST GIRL: I'm sorry, I can't. I'm going steady.
JOHN: Ah, come on!
FIRST GIRL: I just can't.
JOHN: You're just ridin' around with a bunch of girls. Hey, how about somebody else in there? Anybody else want to go for a ride?
JOHN: Aw, come on. I got plenty of room. It's dangerous to have that many people in a car. Cops see ya, you're had. You got nothing to fear, I'm as harmless as a baby kitten.
CAROL: I'll go. I'll go.
FIRST GIRL: Judy's sister wants to ride with you. Is that all right?
JOHN: ( grinning ) Yeah, sure, Judyher sisterher motheranybody. I'll take 'em all. Listen, we'll go up and stop at that light. It'll turn red by the time we get there. All right?
JOHN: You ever get tired of going steady with somebody that ain't aroundI'm up for grabs.
JOHN: So, you're Judy's little sister.
JOHN: Ah, shit,how old are you?
CAROL: Old enough. How old are you?
JOHN: I'm too old for you.
CAROL: You can't be that old.
JOHN: Listen, listen. I think you better go back and sit with your sister. Hey, ah. where are they, anyway? They comin' back or somethin'? This is a joke, right? This better be a joke, 'cause I'm not drivin' you But you asked me. What's the matter? Am I too ugly? Judy doesn't want me with her and now you don't want me with you. Nobody wants me. even my mother and father hate me. Everybody hates me.
CAROL: But you asked me. What's the matter? Am I too ugly? Judy doesn't want me with her and now you don't want me with you. Nobody wants me. even my mother and father hate me. Everybody hates me.
JOHN: No they don't. I mean, I don't know, maybe they do. But I don't. It's just that you're a little young for I am not! If you throw me out I'll OK, OK, just stay cool. There's no need to scream. We'll think of It shouldn't take too long to find your sister again.
CAROL: I am not! If you throw me out I'll OK, OK, just stay cool. There's no need to scream. We'll think of It shouldn't take too long to find your sister again.
JOHN: OK, OK, just stay cool. There's no need to scream. We'll think of It shouldn't take too long to find your sister again.
JOHN: Oh, shit! Hey, get down!
JOHN: Hey, cool. Hey, is this what they call copping a feel?
CAROL: Hey, is this what they call copping a feel?
JOHN: NO! Uh uh. N-O. Don't even say that.
CAROL: What's your name?
JOHN: Mud, if anybody sees you.
TERRY: What you got in there, kid?
KID: More than you can handle.
OLDER MAN: Excuse me, but I think we've had an Well, goddamnit, I won't report you this time, but next time just watch it, will ya?
TERRY: Well, goddamnit, I won't report you this time, but next time just watch it, will ya?
SALESMAN: I'll give you $525 for her on a practically new Corvette. and on top of this, I'm going to know 10% off the low price of this beautiful Vette. I'm talking about only $98 down and $98 a month. Now, how am I able to make you this incredible offer? I'll tell you! I'm forced to move all the sporty cars off the lot as quickly as I can. Boss's orders. He doesn't want 'em. I think it's a mistake, but what can I do?
PEG: Hey, why are you so depressed? You'll forget him in a week. Listen, after you're elected senior queen you'll have so many boys after your bod
LAURIE: I don't want to go out with anybody Laurie, I know it's a drag but you can'tremember what happened to Evelyn Chelnick? When Mike went to the Marines? She had a nervous breakdown and was acting so wacky she got run over by a bus.
PEG: Laurie, I know it's a drag but you can'tremember what happened to Evelyn Chelnick? When Mike went to the Marines? She had a nervous breakdown and was acting so wacky she got run over by a bus.
LAURIE: I just wish I could go with him or Laurie, jeez. Come on.
PEG: Laurie, jeez. Come on.
BOY'S LAVATORY: We move down a row of sinks at which guys are working as intently on their coiffures as the girls. Ducktails being smoothed; glassy waterfalls being primped; the fronts of crew cuts being waxed to stand stiff. Steve stands looking at himself, then glances at Eddie Quentin standing next to him, dabbing something on his face.
STEVE: What's that?
EDDIE: What's what?
STEVE: Hey, zit make-up! Wait till I tellhey, everybody, Come on, Stevedon't. Just cool it.
EDDIE: Come on, Stevedon't. Just cool it.
STEVE: ( quietly ) Let me see some of that stuff.
EDDIE: You leave tomorrow?
EDDIE: You and Laurie engaged yet?
STEVE: No, but we got it worked out. We're still going together but we can date other people.
EDDIE: And screw aroundI hear college girls really give out.
STEVE: Come on.
LAURIE: Come on what?
STEVE: Let's dance.
LAURIE: No thanks.
STEVE: Laurie, I want to dance.
LAURIE: Who's stopping you?
STEVE: ( under his breath ) Laurie, I thought since this was our last night together for 3 months, you might want to dance with me.
LAURIE: How sentimental. You'll be back at I want to dance now, not at Christmas.
STEVE: I want to dance now, not at Christmas.
LAURIE: Get your cooties off me Go ahead, slug me, scar my face. I wouldn't dance with you if you were the last guy left in this gym.
LAURIE: Go ahead, slug me, scar my face. I wouldn't dance with you if you were the last guy left in this gym.
EDDIE: Uh, Peg, I think we should dance.
PEG: No, this is getting good.
LAURIE: I'll dance with you, Eddie. You don't mind, do you, Peggy? Joe College strikes out.
PEG: Joe College strikes out.
MR. WOLFE: Curtis, come here. Help me, will you? I'm surrounded.
GIRL: You won't dance? Come on.
MR. WOLFE: No, really, I'd like to, but I can't. I mean, if old Mr. Simpson came in here and saw me dancing with one of you sexy littleexcuse me. one of you young ladies, he'd have my rear
GIRLS: The all giggle. Mr. Wolfe shrugs at Curt and heads for a door. Curt follows him and they escape from the girls into the night.
MR. WOLFE: Hey, Warren. Come on, gentlemen, back inside. Put 'em out. Let's go.
CURT: ( grinning as he pulls out a pack of cigarettes ) Kids. Want one?
MR. WOLFE: ( taking one from the pack ) All right. Hey, I thought you'd left.
CURT: No, not yet. I have no matches.
MR. WOLFE: Brother, how do I get stuck with dance supervision? Will you tell me that?. You going back East? Boy, I remember the day I went off. Got drunk as hell the night before. Just
CURT: MR. WOLFE
MR. WOLFE: Blotto. Exactly. Barfed on the train all the next day.
CURT: ( grinning ) Cute. Very cute. Where'd you go again?
MR. WOLFE: Middlebury. Vermont. Got a And only stayed a semester.
CURT: And only stayed a semester.
MR. WOLFE: ( smiling and nodding ) One semester. And after all that, I came back here.
CURT: MR. WOLFE ( shrugging )
MR. WOLFE: ( shrugging ) Decided I wasn't the competitive type. I don't know. maybe I was Well, you know I might find I'm not the competitive type myself.
CURT: Well, you know I might find I'm not the competitive type myself.
MR. WOLFE: What do you mean?
CURT: Well, I'm not really sure that I'm Hey, nowdon't be stupid. Go. Experience life. Have some fun,
MR. WOLFE: Hey, nowdon't be stupid. Go. Experience life. Have some fun,
JANE: I meanMr. Wolfe. Can I speak with you a minute. Hi, Curt.
CURT: He looks at Mr. Wolfe, who seems a little embarrassed. Then, Mr. Wolfe sticks out his hand.
MR. WOLFE: Anywaygood luck, Curtis.
CURT: Yeah. I'll see you. Thanks a lot.
CAROL: So the next night we found out where they parked and went out with Don't you have homework or something to do?
JOHN: Don't you have homework or something to do?
CAROL: No sweatmy mother does it. Anyway, he thought he was had. He started the car and couldn't see through the windshieldand zoomed straight into the canalit was a riot.
CAROL: I still got some, so don't try
JOHN: Hey, watch it will ya! Jesus Christ, thanks a lot. Hey, drivin' is a serious business. I ain't havin' no accidents because of you.
JOHN: ( catching her look ) Come on, don't give me any grief. I'm warning ya.
CAROL: Spare me, killer.
CAROL: Why'd you do that?
JOHN: I don't like that surfing shit. Rock 'n Roll's been going downhill ever since Buddy Holly died.
CAROL: Don't you think the Beach Boys are You would, you grungy little twerp.
JOHN: You would, you grungy little twerp.
CAROL: Grungy? You big weenie, if I had a boyfriend he'd pound you.
JOHN: ( looking in the rear- view mirror ) Sureah, shit, Holstein!
CAROL: Good, a copI'm going to tell him you tried to rape me.
JOHN: Oh, noNo. Hey
CAROL: It's past my curfew. I'm going to tell him how old I am, my parents don't know I'm out and you tried to rape me. Boy, are you up a creek.
JOHN: Heyah, reallydon't say anything.
CAROL: If you say "I was a dirty bird. Carol's not grungy, she's bitchin'."
CAROL: Say itI'll tell him.
JOHN: ( quietly ) I was a dirty bird, Carol's not grungy, she's bitchin.'
CAROL: OkayI'll think about it.
HOLSTEIN: Where you going, Milner?
JOHN: I'm going homesir.
HOLSTEIN: Where you been, Milner?
JOHN: Ahat the moviessir.
HOLSTEIN: Milner, you weren't around the 12th and G streets at about 8:30, were No, I wa at the movieslike I said
JOHN: No, I wa at the movieslike I said
HOLSTEIN: Uh-huh. Milner, the reason I stopped you was because the light on your license plate is out. I'm gonna have to cite you for that. And Milner, the front end of this. this. this thing you're driving looks a little low.
JOHN: Oh, no sir. It's twelve and a half inches. Regulation size. Now, it's been checked several times. You can check it if you like, sir.
HOLSTEIN: Look, Milner.
JOHN: Yes, sir.
HOLSTEIN: You can't fool with the law.
JOHN: Yes, sir.
HOLSTEIN: We know that was you tonight. We have an excellent description of this car. I could run you in right now and I could make it stick. But I'm not gonna do that, Milner, you know why?
HOLSTEIN: Because I want to catch you in the act. And when I do, I'm gonna nail you, but good. Happy Birthday, Milner.
JOHN: Thank youasshole.
CAROL: ( looking over at him ) You're a regular J.D.
JOHN: Here, file that under C.S. over there.
CAROL: C.S.? What's that stand for?
JOHN: Chicken shitthat's what it is.
CAROL: She looks amazed as she adds the new ticket to a mess of similar tickets crammed in the glove compartment. The police car pulls by them. John scowls, then roars his engine and pulls back into the stream of traffic.
GIRLFRIEND: Ain't he neat?
FALFA: Hey, you know a guy around here with a piss yellow deuce coupesupposed to be hot stuff?
TERRY: You mean John Milner?
TERRY: Hey, nobody can beat him, man. He's got the fastest
FALFA: I ain't nobody, dork. Right?
TERRY: Hey, you see this Milner, you tell him I'm lookin' for him, huh? Tell him I aim to blow his ass right off the road.
FALFA: Hey, you see this Milner, you tell him I'm lookin' for him, huh? Tell him I aim to blow his ass right off the road.
GIRLFRIEND: ( giving another snotty smile ) Ain't he neat?
TERRY: What a babe. what a bitchin' babe. And Wolfman Baby, she's all mine.
TERRY: Okay, honey, here I comeJames Dean
TERRY: Stay cool, honeydon't let those creeps bug you. Wolfman, please don't let those creeps bug her. please.
TERRY: ( lowering his voice ) Hello. buenos noches? Need a lift? Nice night for a walk? Do you know John Milner? Curt Henderson? Sure you wouldn't like a ride somewhere? Did anyone ever tell you that you look just like Connie Stevens?
TERRY: You do! I mean it! Just like Connie Stevens. I met her once.
DEBBIE: For real?
TERRY: Yeah. At a Dick Clark road show.
DEBBIE: You really think I look like her?
TERRY: No shitexcuse me, I mean I'm not just feeding you a line. You look like Connie Stevens. What's your Debbie. I always though I looked like Sandra Dee.
DEBBIE: Debbie. I always though I looked like Sandra Dee.
TERRY: Oh yeahwell, you look a lot like her too.
DEBBIE: This your car?
TERRY: Yeah. I'm Terry thethey call me Terry the Tiger.
DEBBIE: It's really tough looking.
TERRY: What school do you go to?
DEBBIE: Deweycan it lay rubber?
TERRY: Oh yeah, it's got a 327 Chevy mill with six Strombergs.
DEBBIE: Wowbitchin' tuck and roll. I just love the feel of tuck and roll You do?
TERRY: You do?
DEBBIE: Well, come on inI'll let you feel it. I mean, you can touch it if you I mean the upholstery, you know.
TERRY: Well, come on inI'll let you feel it. I mean, you can touch it if you I mean the upholstery, you know.
DEBBIE: Terry is elated. He climbs out of the car and she slides in the driver's side. Terry climbs back in next to her and slams the door. She's sitting right next to himlike a real date should. Terry gets a little nervous.
DEBBIE: Peel out.
TERRY: Peel out. I love it when guys peel
DEBBIE: Peel out. I love it when guys peel
GIRL: a great band and they came all the way from Stockton. Let's hear it.
GIRL: And we want to thank Darby Langdon, who did all these neat decorations.
LAURIE: I don't care if you leave this second.
GIRL: ( into the mike ) Now the next dance is gonna be a snowball and leading it off is last year's class president Steven Bolander and this year's head cheerleader, Laurie Henderson.
STEVE: What's wrong with you! You're acting like a snotty
LAURIE: Oh God, come on.
STEVE: Come on what?
LAURIE: ( pulling him toward the floor ) Oh, Stevenplease, everybody's watching. Smile or something.
LAURIE: You think I care if you go off. You think I'm going to crack up or something. Are you conceited!
STEVE: Quitquit pinchingI don't know why I ever started taking you out in the first place.
LAURIE: You take me out? When we first met you didn't have enough sense to take the garbage out. I asked you out, What do you mean, you asked me out!
STEVE: What do you mean, you asked me out!
LAURIE: Backwards Dayremember? If I had waited for you to ask meeven after that you didn't call me for two weeks.
STEVE: I was busy.
LAURIE: You were scared. Dave Oboler told me. Then when you did ask me out you didn't kiss me for three dates.
STEVE: WellI was
LAURIE: ScaredJim Kaylor told me. I even asked my father why you hadn't kissed Your fathergreat!
STEVE: Your fathergreat!
LAURIE: He said he thought you were bright and you'd probably think of kissing me after a while.
LAURIE: You didn't, of course. I had to. Remember that picnic?
STEVE: Out at the canyon?
LAURIE: Oh boy! You can't remember anything the first one, up at the lake. That was the first time you kissed meI practically had to throw myself at I remember.
STEVE: ( quietly ) I remember.
STEVE: What's wrong?
LAURIE: Go to hell.
WENDY: What are you doin', stealing hub
CURT: Wellhey, Wendy.
WENDY: How've you been?
CURT: Fine. Great. How've you been?
WENDY: I'm comingwait a sec. She's got her car. Hey, I thought you were going away to school.
CURT: Ah, maybe. maybe.
WENDY: Same old Curt. All the time we were going together you never knew what you were doing. well, anyway, I gotta go.
CURT: Hey, Wendywhere are you going?
WENDY: ( smiling at her ) Well, you mind if I come along?
CURT: ( smiling at her ) Well, you mind if I come along?
WENDY: ( affectionately )
CURT: They go off toward the VW and climb in.
MR. KROOT: All right, Bolander, break it up. You know the rules. You and your panting girlfriend want to do that you'll have to go someplace else.
STEVE: Hey, Kroot!
STEVE: Why don't you go kiss a duck.
KROOT: What? What did you say?
STEVE: I said go kiss a duck, marblehead.
MR. KROOT: Bolanderyou're suspended. You're don't even come Monday. You are out!
STEVE: ( smiling broadly ) I graduated last semester.
STEVE: ( to Laurie ) Get your shoes. Let's go before we get thrown out.
MAN: This is Weird Willard.
WOLFMAN: Hold on a minute, let me get my pants off. you understand?
STEVE: Why don't we go to the canal?
LAURIE: ( teasing ) What for?
STEVE: Listen, I can get tough with you too, you know.
LAURIE: Yeah, hard tough.
TERRY: I go to Dewey too, ya know.
DEBBIE: I never seen ya.
TERRY: I bug out a lot. When I graduate, I'm going to join the Marines.
DEBBIE: They got the best uniforms. But what if there's a war?
TERRY: With the bomb, who's going to start it? We'd all blow up together. Anyway, I'd rather be at the front. I'm like thatrather be where the action is, you know. Once I got in a fight with
DEBBIE: I love Eddie Burns. Eddie Burnsoh, yeah, Eddie Burns. I met him once, too.
TERRY: Eddie Burnsoh, yeah, Eddie Burns. I met him once, too.
DEBBIE: You really think I look like Connie Stevens? I like herTuesday Weld is too much of a beatnik, don't you Yeah, beatniks are losers.
TERRY: Yeah, beatniks are losers.
DEBBIE: Who do you like? I mean, singers and
TERRY: Ah hellI like most of the people you like.
DEBBIE: ( putting her head on his shoulder ) That's nicewe got a lot in common.
DEBBIE: You know what I'd like more than anything in the world right now?
DEBBIE: I'd love a double Chubby Chuck. Isn't that what you'd like more than anything right now?
TERRY: ( quietly )
TERRY: A double Chubby Chuck, a Mexicali Chili Barb, two orders of French And cherry cokes. Ark, wark, dork.
DEBBIE: And cherry cokes. Ark, wark, dork.
INTERCOM: Ark, wark, dork.
TERRY: ( pushing the button ) Now wait a minute. What? Huh?
INTERCOM: Ark, wark, dork.
TERRY: Yeah, right. Cool.
VIC: Hey, Deb. How's my soft baby?
DEBBIE: Beat it, Vic. I'm not your baby.
VIC: Oh, come on, honey. So I never called you back. I've been, you know, busy.
DEBBIE: Three weeks. besides, it only took one night for me to realize that if brains were dynamite, you couldn't blow your nose.
VIC: Look who's talking. Who's the wimp you're hanging out with now? Einstein?
DEBBIE: Tiger happens to be very intelligent. Unlike you. I know every thing your dirty little mind is thinking. .it shows.
TERRY: Hey, now I mean, hey now, buddy, the lady obviously doesn't
VIC: Look, creep, you want a knuckle Ah, no thanks, I'm waiting for a double ChubbyChuck.
TERRY: Ah, no thanks, I'm waiting for a double ChubbyChuck.
VIC: Then shut your smart ass mouth! I'll call ya, Deb, some night when I'm hard up.
DEBBIE: I won't be home.
TERRY: You seem to, ahknow a lot of weird That sex fiend is not a friend of mine; he's just horny. That's why I like you, you're different.
DEBBIE: That sex fiend is not a friend of mine; he's just horny. That's why I like you, you're different.
TERRY: I am? You really think I'm
DEBBIE: Yeah. And I'll bet you're smart enough to get us some brew.
TERRY: Brew. ohyeah. oh, sure. Yes! Liquor! This place is too crowded
DEBBIE: Brew. ohyeah. oh, sure. Yes! Liquor! This place is too crowded
TERRY: Brew. ohyeah. oh, sure. Yes! Liquor! This place is too crowded
CAR HOP: What about your double Chubby Chuck, mexicali-chili-barb and two cherry cokes, sir?
CURT: Theredon't you see it? Speed up, you're losing her
BOBBIE: Quit shouting in my ear!
CURT: Cut around him, cut around him.
CURT: There, hang a rightover there!
CURT: You lost her!
WENDY: What's wrong with you? You know Bobbie gets nose bleeds when she's upset.
BOBBIE: I do not! You shut up!
CURT: Lost her again. Ah, Wendy, my old lover, come back here and console Eat your heart out. Who was she I don't know, but I'm going to find I know her!
WENDY: Eat your heart out. Who was she I don't know, but I'm going to find I know her!
CURT: I don't know, but I'm going to find I know her!
BOBBIE: I know her!
CURT: Okay, come on, who is she?
BOBBIE: You know Mr. Beeman? He owns Hepcat Well, she's his wife.
CURT: Well, she's his wife.
BOBBIE: Well, she's his wife.
CURT: But she was young and beautiful, and cruising 10th Street. You're thinking of someone else.
WENDY: Mr. Beeman's not so old.
CURT: What cruel fate keeps me from my true love? How am I ever going to meet her?
WENDY: ( to Bobbie ) Did you know that my ex is going to become a presidential aide? It's supposed to be a secret, but his big ambition in life is to shake hands with President Kennedy. How are you going to accomplish that at J.C.?
CURT: Maybe I've grown up. Maybe I've changed my mind.
WENDY: Maybe you don't think you can do it!
CURT: Maybe you should shut up!
WENDY: Maybe I will. and maybe I won't.
CURT: Why don't you move your bod into aft chamber, where we might discuss this in private.
BOBBIE: ( seeing that Wendy is considering it ) Thanks a lot.
CURT: Come on, Wendy? She doesn't say anything. They pull up to a stoplight. Wendy looks at the red stoplight and then abruptly gets out of the car and jumps in the back.
WENDY: Well, slide over, I'm not sitting on your lap.
CURT: To the Opera, James.
BOBBIE: Drop dead.
CURT: Unless you want to go to Gallo Dam and have an orgy.
WENDY: You wish.
WENDY: I've been silly. I'm glad you're going to stay. Maybe we'll have some classes together.
CURT: ( from the front seat ) Look, there's Kip Pullman! He's so
BOBBIE: ( from the front seat ) Look, there's Kip Pullman! He's so
BOBBIE: Do you know Kip?
CURT: Huh? Yeah, I know him.
BOBBIE: Talk to him when we go by.
CURT: What do you want me to say?
BOBBIE: Anything. I just want to meet him.
CURT: Kip, baby, what's up?
KIP: Henderson, long time no see. Whadaya been doing?
CURT: Not much, just wanted to let you know that Bobbie here is hopelessly in love with you and trembles at the sight of your rippling biceps.
BOBBIE: You creep, fink, son-of-a-bitch
CURT: Help, wait! JokeJokeBobbie, remember your nose bleeds!
BOBBIE: Get outget out of my carI hate Excuse meouchWendyI got to go
CURT: Excuse meouchWendyI got to go
WENDY: Curt, I hope I see you at registration. Call me if you want. It was nice seeing you again.
CURT: See ya.
CURT: Oh shitthere!! Wait!
CAROL: I'm so thirsty, I could die. Just a little 10 cent coke to wet my whistle. It won't take a minute, I can drink it in the
JOHN: Why don't you just get out and get one then! So long, goodbye, hasta
JOHN: All right, one coke and then home.
CAROL: Isn't it great, the way I can cry whenever I want. A lot of people can't do that, but Vicki showed me how. I bet you can't cry.
JOHN: Don't count on it. I may surprise you any minute now.
JOHN: ( into intercom ) One ten cent coke. Is ice extra? All right, ice.
CAROL: Thanks for nothing.
CAROL: Oh rats, I though some of my friends might be here.
JOHN: Probably a couple of weeks past their Wait, there's Dee Dee. I hope she sees me.
CAROL: Wait, there's Dee Dee. I hope she sees me.
JOHN: Oh Shit, Dee Dee!
AL: Hiya, John. Say, do you think if I brought my Mopar by the shop Monday you could spot weld the bumper Have to be before noon.
JOHN: Have to be before noon.
AL: Sure. Hey, have you met Linda?
JOHN: No. Hiahh, this is my, ahh, cousin, Carol. I'm kinda babysitting tonight.
CAROL: She slugs John on the arm. John grabs her arm as she starts to swing again.
JOHN: Jesuswatch it, will yuh? Been hittin' me all night. Kids will be kids, you know.
JOHN: Watch outdamn it! Look whatwhy don't you grow up! We don't get along too well. It's been like this
CAROL: You spastic creep!
JOHN: We don't get along too well. You know what cousins are like.
AL: Yeah. well, I'll see ya on Monday before noon.
CAROL: Hi cousin, how's your bod?
DEBBIE: Do you have an ID?
TERRY: No. hey, but no sweat. What'll it be? Beer, little wine?
DEBBIE: If you could get some Old Harper, I'd give you a French kiss.
TERRY: Old Harper, rrright! He gives her an OK sign with his fingers and goes over to the store. He starts to enter, then stops and thinks. He sees a man in a business suit approaching, and Excuse me, sir, while you're in there I mean, since you're going in anyway, I wonder if
TERRY: Excuse me, sir, while you're in there I mean, since you're going in anyway, I wonder if
MAN: Yes, son?
TERRY: Could yousircould you give me the time?
MAN: ( looking at his watch ) Why sure, it's a quarter to twelve.
TERRY: Great. Quarter to twelve. Thanks a
TERRY: Pardon me, sir, but I lost my I.D. inin a flood and I'd like to get some Old Harper, hard stuff. Would you mind buying a bottle for me?
BUM: Why certainly, I lost my wife, too her name wasn't Idy, though, and it wasn't in a floodbut I know what Thanks, here's enough for a pint.
TERRY: Thanks, here's enough for a pint.
TERRY: Hi. Still quarter to twelve.
MAN: Right-o. Night.
TERRY: The man gets into the car and backs out. Terry goes over to the window of the liquor store and looks to see how the wino's doing with his booze. Terry sees the liquor store owner setting four bottles of cheap wine on the counter.
TERRY: ( gesturing through the window from outside ) Hey, no. Not wine. Sssshey!
TERRY: ( smiling at the owner ) Hi thereah, saywas there an old man in here a minute ago?
OWNER: Yeah. He went out the back.
OWNER: You want something? Yeahahlet me have a Three Musketeers, ah, and a ball point pen ther, a comp, a pint of Old Harper, couple of flashlight batteries and some of this beef jerky. Okay, got an I.D. for the liquor?
TERRY: Yeahahlet me have a Three Musketeers, ah, and a ball point pen ther, a comp, a pint of Old Harper, couple of flashlight batteries and some of this beef jerky. Okay, got an I.D. for the liquor?
OWNER: Okay, got an I.D. for the liquor?
TERRY: A what? Oh, sure Oh nuts, I left itI left it in the Sorry, you'll have to get it before
OWNER: Sorry, you'll have to get it before
TERRY: Well, I can't. I also ah, forgot the
DEBBIE: Hey, did ya get it? Ya get it, ya get it?
DEBBIE: You got it. You got it!
DEBBIE: You didn't get it. Why didn't you get it?
TERRY: Ah, well, I needed some things and I thought as long as I was in there look, Debbie, can you loan me a What? Are you for real? Come on. Girls don't pay. Guys pay.
DEBBIE: What? Are you for real? Come on. Girls don't pay. Guys pay.
TERRY: Yeah, well, seeI've only got a fifty and he doesn't have change.
DEBBIE: Well, I can't believe this. I really cannot believe this. Here.
TERRY: Hiexcuse me. I was wonderingcould you, ah
GUY: Buy you a bottle of booze. Yeah, I know. You lost your I.D. What kind do you want?
TERRY: ( amazed ) Gee, that's terrific. Ah, just some ahOld Harper.
JOHN: That's Freddy Benson's Vette. he got his head on with some drunk. Never had a chance. Damn good driver, too. What a waste when somebody gets it and it ain't even their fault.
CAROL: Needs a paint job, that's for sure.
JOHN: That Vette over there. Walt Hawkins, a real ding-a-ling. Wrapped it around a fig tree out on Mesa Vista with five kids in it. Draggin' with five kids in the car, how dumb can you get? All the ding-a-lings get it sooner or later. Maybe that's why they invented cars. To get rid of the ding-a-lings. Tough when they take someone with them.
CAROL: You never had a wreck thoughyou told me.
JOHN: I come pretty close a couple of times. Almost rolled once. So far I've been quick enough to stay out of here. The quick and the dead.
CAROL: I bet you're the fastest.
JOHN: I've never been beatenlot of punks have tried. See that '41 Ford there? Used to be the fastest wheels in the valley. I never got a chance to race old Earl. He got his in '55 in the hairiest crash ever happened around here. He was racing a '54 Chevy, bored and loaded, out on the old Oakdale Highway and every damn kid in town was out there. The Chevy lost its front wheel doing about 85. The idiot had torched the spindles to lower the front end and it snapped right off. He slammed bam into the Ford and then they both of them crashed into a row of cars and all those kids watchin! Jesus, eight kids killed including both drivers, looked like a battlefield. Board of Education was so impressed they filmed it. Show it now in Drivers Education, maybe you'll see it. Anyway, since then street racing's gone underground. No spectators, I mean. Too bad.
CAROL: I'd love to see you race.
JOHN: Come on! None of that.
CAROL: Whadaya mean? I'm the one who's supposed to say that. Whadaya afraid of? I'll keep it above the waist.
JOHN: ( he looks at her for a moment ) Who knows, in a few yearsbut not now, bunny rabbit.
CAROL: Bunny rabbit! Oh brother, you are such a drip. Come on, open the door.
JOHN: Come on, open the door.
CAROL: If you say "Carol's not a bunny, she's a foxy little tail."
JOHN: ( quietly ) Carol's not a rabbit, she's a foxy little tail.
CAROL: You say the cutest things.
JOE: Whadaya doin', creep?
CURT: No, I'm talking to the other fifty creeps here. You know Gil Gonzales?
JOE: No, I'm talking to the other fifty creeps here. You know Gil Gonzales?
CURT: Gil Gonzales. no.
JOE: Don't know Gil. you oughta. You really should.
CURT: Yeah. why?
JOE: No reason. he's a friend of ours. and that's his car you're sitting
JOE: Hey, where ya goin?
CURT: ( turning ) No place. Not going any place.
JOE: Ya must be going someplaceI mean ya left here. Bring him over here, Ants, I want to show him something.
JOE: Herebend down, look here. See that? Right across theresee?
CURT: I guess soyeah.
JOE: You scratched it, man. Where do you get off sitting on Gil's car, huh,
CURT: I'm sorry. It's not much of a scratch. I don't think he'll even
JOE: It ain't the size that's in question here. It's the principle. Jeez, this is tough. what should we do with Tie him to the car and drag him.
ANTS: Tie him to the car and drag him.
CURT: That's funny Hey, you guys know Toby Juarez? He's a Pharoah, isn't he?
JOE: Toby Juarez. Yeah, sure we know Toby.
CURT: He's a friend of mine.
JOE: Sure, good old Toby. He's a friend of yours. That's cool. we all hate his guts.
CURT: Ohwell, I don't know him that much We killed him last night.
JOE: We killed him last night.
ANTS: Tied him to a car and dragged him.
JOE: This is going to take some thinking. You better come with us maybe. Go riding with the Pharoahs.
CURT: Well, I don't think I canI gotta
JOE: I know just how ya feel.
CARLOS: No, I called it!
ANTS: No, I called it!
CARLOS: Before we picked you up.
ANTS: Before we picked you up.
CARLOS: You can't call it for the whole night, man. I got it now. Get in the back.
WOLFMAN: Pardon me. Your name is Colette?
OPERATOR: Yes. Collect Call.
WOLFMAN: Your name is Colette Call?
OPERATOR: Sir, this is the Operator.
WOLFMAN: Are you French, Operator?
OPERATOR: This is a collect call for Wolfman I. I love you, Operator.
WOLFMAN: I. I love you, Operator.
OPERATOR: Is this Wolfman Jack?
WOLFMAN: Is Floyd there?
OPERATOR: It's for a Wolfman. Jack.
CAROL: I just love listening to the Wolfman. My Mom won't let me at home. Because he's a Negro, I think. anyway, he's terrific. Do you know that he just broadcasts from a plane that flies around in circles all the time? Do you think that's true?
WOLFMAN: You mean Floyd? Hello, is this Floyd?
WOLFMAN: No, it ain't honeybye!
CARLOS: You tell her, Wolfman. He's my man. When I graduate, I'm gonna be a Wolfman. Hey, you know he broadcasts out of Mexico someplace?
JOE: No, he don't. I seen the station right outside of town.
CARLOS: That's just a clearing station, man. So he can fool the cops. He blasts that thing all the way around the world. It's against the law, man.
ANTS: Ah, manthey'll never catch the Hey, man, who cut the cheese?
ANTS: Hey, man, who cut the cheese?
JOE: He who smelt it, dealt it. Hey, creep, scoot down. Sitting up like that, it wrecks the lines of the car, you know what I mean? There's that badass Chevy again. Look at he snatch he's got with him.
JOE: There's that badass Chevy again. Look at he snatch he's got with him.
ANTS: Hey, man, he looks like a whimp.
CURT: Probably is. Whimps get all the
CARLOS: Milner ain't gonna beat that. His time has come. He's getting old. He ain't as fast as he used to be.
JOHN: You got two seconds to get your ass over in the corner.
CAROL: Don't worry, I won't rape you.
GIRL: You got a bitchin' car.
GIRL: In fact, we're gonna give you our special prize for having the neatest car around. You want me to give it to you?
JOHN: If the prize is you, honey, I'm a ready Teddy.
GIRL: Yeah, well get bent turkey. All right, very funny. What a chop. Ha ha. Quit laughing!!
CAROL: All right, very funny. What a chop. Ha ha. Quit laughing!!
CAROL: Let's catch 'em at the light. Then you jump out and flatten their tires.
JOHN: Hey, wait a
CAROL: Just do what I say!
JOHN: Yezz, bozz..
TERRY: Tootie fruiti all ruti. It's Super
TERRY: It's a. a little. strong, I think.
DEBBIE: ( drinking ) It's the living end.
TERRY: Yeaah, I guess it wasn't mixed.
DEBBIE: Wow, it's pretty tonight. It's a perfect night to go horseback riding I was going with a guy once who had a horse.
TERRY: Oh yeah? I used to have a couple of horses myself.
DEBBIE: I used them for hunting. I do a lot of hunting. Deer mostly, although I got a couple of bear last year. Yep, they were good ponieshunting ponies. I had to train 'em special, you know.
TERRY: I used them for hunting. I do a lot of hunting. Deer mostly, although I got a couple of bear last year. Yep, they were good ponieshunting ponies. I had to train 'em special, you know.
DEBBIE: Do you still have 'em? We could go for a ride.
TERRY: No, I had to sell 'em. To get these wheels. and a jeep. I also have a jeep pick-up, with four-wheel drive. It's got a gun rack. And I use that for hunting mostly.
DEBBIE: Why do you kill little animals? I think that's terrible.
TERRY: Oh, well, yeah, I figure with bears, though, it's either me or them. You know, I think you're really neat.
DEBBIE: Wait a second.
TERRY: Oh, jeez, I'm sorry. I don't know what got into meI didn't mean to maybe it's the booze or something.
DEBBIE: Suddenly, she grabs him and pulls him down on top of herself. She kisses him madly. At first he's surprised, but then gets the hang of it. They begin to neck passionately, encountering many obstacles in the cramped front seat.
DEBBIE: Owyou pinched me.
TERRY: I'm sorry.
DEBBIE: Let me get my head over hereokay, now you get up
TERRY: Owmy leg, my leg. Ow, watch it!
DEBBIE: Ummm, I just love tuck 'n roll
TERRY: Geez, it's like Grand Central Station around here. Why don't we go someplace
DEBBIE: Nah, come on. They won't come back.
TERRY: Wait a minute. I got a blanket in the back. Why don't we go over into the field?
DEBBIE: All right. Okay.
WOLFMAN: How old are you?
GIRL: I'm thirteen, how old are you?
WOLFMAN: I'm only fourteen.
GIRL: Oh, boy, I love you, Wolfman.
SINGERS: ( singing over ) "Wolfman Jack."
WOLFMAN: Oh, now we gonna do the weather for all the valleys and the mountain tops. Gonna be hot. about 200 degrees in Merced, 400 degrees out in Fresno, and I know we're gonna have about 500 degrees up around the valley somewhere. You got the Wolfman Jack Show.
CURT: Hey, terrific, I love miniature golf.
JOE: I hate it.
CURT: Well, I don't play that often really. Ahwhat're we doing here then?
JOE: We're outta gas.
CURT: They don't sell gas here.
JOE: No. but we're outta money, too. Come on, Carl.
CURT: Joe gives Curt a gentle push and they go inside. The golf course is empty, except for a couple of ugly girls putting around in the far corner. Under a trellis, Curt and Joe enter as the Pharoahs fool around with the candy machine, pinball games, "Check Your Weight," and "Air Corps Gunner" games, pretending to play with them. Joe looks around, whistling Quickly the Pharoahs go into action, jimmying locks, pounding coin returns, pulling out plugs, prying open change boxes and stuffing looses coins into their pockets. Joe smiles at Curt, who looks sick again, involved now in a robbery. Ants is sitting in a "Rocket to the Moon" ride, pounding on it unsuccessfully when suddenly it starts. Ants starts bouncing up and down looking dumber than usual. He swears at Rocket to the Moon under his breathsuddenly a screen door slams. The Pharoahs turn. A man in an undershirt stands by the "Get Your Balls Here" booth, regarding them The Pharoahs can't think of anything right away. Ants bounces noisily in the "Rocket to the Moon." The Pharoahs are all looking to Joe for guidance. Joe for his part is mumbling.
JOE: All right, men. What're you punks doing?
MR. GORDON: What're you punks doing?
CURT: Hey, hi. Mr. Gordon, what's up?
MR. GORDON: HendersonCurt Henderson? You with these punks?
CURT: These are my friends. We were just.
MR. GORDON: Jeez, you guys had me scared.
MR. GORDON: Hey, you haven't left yet?
CURT: Oh ahnono, I'm not
CURT: I mean, I'm not leaving until Tomorrow. Well, listen, Hank Anderson's inside. Come in and say goodbye. You know, Hank's the one that brought your name up on the floor of the Moose Hall. You got the check, didn't you?
MR. GORDON: Tomorrow. Well, listen, Hank Anderson's inside. Come in and say goodbye. You know, Hank's the one that brought your name up on the floor of the Moose Hall. You got the check, didn't you?
HANK: We are all proud of you, Curt. The Moose Scholarship couldn't have gone to a better boy. And if there's anything we can do, let us know.
MR. GORDON: Yeah, you'll stay in touch by letter, won't you?
JOE: Hey, we're all done out here.
MR. GORDON: All done? Whatwhat's he mean?
CURT: Ah, he means, we're all done having loads of fun out here.
MR. GORDON: Oh, well.
HANK: Wonderful. You can have all the fun you want. This place is for fun.
CURT: Yes. Yes, it is. Thank you. Thank you both.
MR. GORDON: Good luck now.
HANK: Before I say goodbye, Curt, I want to tell you I hope you'll be taking along with you a little piece of this place.
CURT: I think I have.
HANK: Good. Don't forget us.
CURT: No, I won't forget you and you won't forget me.
MR. GORDON: Okay. 'Bye.
HANK: Good-bye and good luck.
CURT: It was nice to meet yuh.
JOE: It was nice to meet yuh.
CURT: Right. What he said goes for me,
JOE: Yeah, you just might make it as a Pharoah yet, boy. Some day he'll make a fine Moose.
HANK: Some day he'll make a fine Moose.
DEBBIE: What's wrong?
TERRY: I thought I heard something. They're porking in the weeds. No
TERRY: Wait a minute!
DEBBIE: The radio is gone. That meansthe car is gone!
TERRY: The radio is gone. That meansthe car is gone!
TERRY: Oh no!!! OH NO!!!
TERRY: Oh GodI'm sorry. But, why the car? You could have struck us with lightning or somethinganything- but not the car!
LAURIE: You know, it doesn't make sense to leave home to look for a home, to give up a life to find a new life, to say goodbye to friends you love just to find new friends.
STEVE: What? Say that again, I didn't
LAURIE: That's what Curt said.
STEVE: Oh, figures. You must've talked his ear off trying to get him to stay.
LAURIE: That's not true. I didn't say anything. Curt just said at dinner tonight he realized there was no big hurry. He thought he should take it easy for a while, go to J.C. and try to figure out what he wants to do with his life.
STEVE: That sounds logical.
LAURIE: You think so?
STEVE: Sure. I think Curt's probably right for Curt. Not for me though. Laurie, look at me. Now you know what I want out of life. And it's just not in this town.
LAURIE: I'm not going to the airport tomorrow.
LAURIE: Steve! Don't.
STEVE: ( quietly ) It's our last night together for three months. come on.
LAURIE: We've been through this before.
STEVE: I'm going to miss you so much. I need something to remember you by. You don't want me to forget you.
LAURIE: ( softly )
STEVE: What's wrong? You're just lying there.
LAURIE: Well go ahead, you want to.
STEVE: Not like that.
LAURIE: If you're not going to remember me for anything else, why don't you go You want it and you know it. Don't be so damn self-righteous with me. After those things you told me about watching your brother
STEVE: You want it and you know it. Don't be so damn self-righteous with me. After those things you told me about watching your brother
LAURIE: You're disgusting! Get out of my car! I told you never
STEVE: I'm sorry.
LAURIE: Get out! It's not worth it. I don't care if you're leavingnow get out!
DEBBIE: Anyway, the Goat Killer
TERRY: Let's talk about something else.
DEBBIE: Whenever he strikes, he leaves a bloody goat's head near the victim. Isn't that creepy?
DEBBIE: They thought he went up to Stockton, but two nights ago they found Carlie Johnson and Don White right here by the canal all hacked to pieces and
TERRY: Who do you think'll take the regionals not only were there bloody goats' heads, but he had switched all the parts of their bodies around. You know putting her arms on him and his legs on
DEBBIE: not only were there bloody goats' heads, but he had switched all the parts of their bodies around. You know putting her arms on him and his legs on
TERRY: Wait a second. Did you hear.?
DEBBIE: You think it's the Goat Killer?
TERRY: ( whispering ) No! I mean, no. Listen, I'll go for help, you stay here.
DEBBIE: Come on, we'll hide in the field.
DEBBIE: Maybe if it's the Goat Killer he'll get somebody and we'll see the whole
TERRY: I don't want to see the whole thing. Especially if it's us heoh, why me? I'm going to look lousy with your legs and a goat's head and
DEBBIE: Shhhhe's stopped. I can't see him veryI think he's coming this way.
TERRY: Well, as long as he's notDebbie! Who, me? Why me?
TERRY: Who, me? Why me?
STEVE: Debbie comes back through the bushes and Terry looks at her
TERRY: Debbie comes back through the bushes and Terry looks at her
TERRY: Where'd you go, anyway?
DEBBIE: Over there.
TERRY: Well, don't go off again. Come on, let's get out of here.
STEVE: What're you doing out here? Hey, where's my rod?
TERRY: ( choking ) Um, oh, did I introduce you? This is Debbie. Debbie, this is Steve.
DEBBIE: They continue to walk along the dark canal bank.
STEVE: They continue to walk along the dark canal bank.
DEBBIE: They continue to walk along the dark canal bank.
STEVE: Well, what about my car?
TERRY: Um. I'ts in the garage. I put it in the garage for safe keeping. I mean. I don't want to take any chances with it.
STEVE: Oh, great.
DEBBIE: Yeah. Yeah. It's a good thing too. 'Cause somebody stole our car.
STEVE: Really? That's terrible. What kind was it?
TERRY: Gee, ah, where's Laurie, anyway?
STEVE: I guess we broke up.
TERRY: You broke up? Bull!
CAROL: It doesn't look like a gear shift Come on, will ya? Give it back to Well, go ahead, cream me. What's wrong, you're a tough guy. Break my arm, see if I care.
JOHN: Come on, will ya? Give it back to Well, go ahead, cream me. What's wrong, you're a tough guy. Break my arm, see if I care.
CAROL: Well, go ahead, cream me. What's wrong, you're a tough guy. Break my arm, see if I care.
JOHN: Forget it.
CAROL: I was just going to keep it for a little while. You're an ogre, just like my father. He won't let me play records, or stay out late, or He ahdoesn't like you to stay out Nohe's terrible. Once I was at a party that didn't end till late and he called the cops. Can you imagine? It was only a little after midnight and he had the whole police force
JOHN: ( worried ) He ahdoesn't like you to stay out Nohe's terrible. Once I was at a party that didn't end till late and he called the cops. Can you imagine? It was only a little after midnight and he had the whole police force
CAROL: Nohe's terrible. Once I was at a party that didn't end till late and he called the cops. Can you imagine? It was only a little after midnight and he had the whole police force
JOHN: Say, where do you live anyway?
CAROL: Over on Ramona, why? Oh no. Uh uh. You thought I'd tell you wherenot me, not old Carol. The night is young and I'm not hitting the rack until I get a little action.
CAROL: What do you keep lookin' at? Who's that? You know him? He's following awful close.
JOHN: Grab onto something.
FALFA: ( shouting over ) Sorry if I scared ya, man.
JOHN: ( looking ahead ) Takes more than that to scare me.
FALFA: Where ya been hiding? Didn't anyone tell ya I been looking for ya?
JOHN: Hey, I can't keep tracka all the punks lookin' for me.
FALFA: They say you're the fastest thing in the Valley. But that can't be your car, man. That must be your mama's car. Hell, I feel embarrassed just getting near ya.
JOHN: Ya should, manyou're driving a field car.
FALFA: Field car? What's a Field Car?
JOHN: Field Cars drive through the fields, dropping cow shit all over the place to make the lettuce grow.
FALFA: ( laughing ) That's pretty good. Hey, I like that paint job you got. What they call thatsorta a cross between Piss Yellow and Puke Green, ain't it?
JOHN: Yeah, well, you're car's so ugly you must have to sneak up on the pumps to get a tank of gas.
FALFA: Well, at least I don't have to move over to let a funeral go by, man.
CAROL: ( shouting ) Your car's uglier than I am.
CAROL: That didn't come out right.
FALFA: Come on, boy, prove it. Let's go.
JOHN: Look kid, why don't you go out and win a few races, then come back and see me.
CAROL: Oh, race him, you can beat him.
FALFA: Hey, that's a tough lookin' girl you got with you, man. What're you doin'? Trying to pick up a few extra bucks Hey, Doll. Why don't you come on and ride with mein about ten years?
JOHN: Leave her out of this. This is just between you and me.
CAROL: Wow! He's really fast, isn't he?
JOHN: Yeah. But he's stupid.
CURT: Heyany of you guys know a blonde in a white T-Bird?
JOE: Yeah, I seen her, what about it?
CURT: I was just wondering who she is.
JOE: She's outta your price range, man. My brother's been with her and he clued me in.
CURT: Price range? You mean she's a
JOE: Yeah, Thirty Dollar Sheri. Can you believe that? Thirty dollars.
CURT: We must be thinking of different Hey man, don't tell Joe what he Thirty dollars ain't much. I saw ten thousand once. My old man had it in a suitcase. They caught him the next morning though.
CARLOS: Hey man, don't tell Joe what he Thirty dollars ain't much. I saw ten thousand once. My old man had it in a suitcase. They caught him the next morning though.
ANTS: Thirty dollars ain't much. I saw ten thousand once. My old man had it in a suitcase. They caught him the next morning though.
CARLOS: Fuzz ahead, watch it.
JOE: Fuzz ahead, watch it.
CARLOS: Fuzz ahead, watch it.
JOE: At Jerrie's Cherries. You can just barely see the fender.
CARLOS: At Jerrie's Cherries. You can just barely see the fender.
ANTS: That's rotten, man. Hiding like that.
CARLOS: That's shitty.
JOE: It's dishonest.
JOE: We oughta do something. I got an idea. I got a good idea.
MAIN STREET: Steve, Terry and Debbie have made it back into town from the canal. They walk past the closed stores and stop on a busy
STEVE: I think I'm gonna go over to Burger Yeah. Yeah. Laurie's probably over You really think she's got me worried about where she is, don't you?
TERRY: Yeah. Yeah. Laurie's probably over You really think she's got me worried about where she is, don't you?
STEVE: You really think she's got me worried about where she is, don't you?
TERRY: Let me tell you something. I couldn't care less. Want to come along?
STEVE: Let me tell you something. I couldn't care less. Want to come along?
DEBBIE: Yeah, I do. I do.
TERRY: Make up your minds.
STEVE: Make up your minds.
TERRY: No, thanks. U'mm. You know we got to report the car missing.
STEVE: All right. See yuh.
TERRY: Yeah. See yuh.
DEBBIE: Why can't we go to Burger City?
TERRY: Burger City? Burger City!!? How can you think of hamburgers when somebody stole my car.
JOE: Listen, ahCarl, I
CURT: He nods at Curt, looking cautiously around the dark lot.
JOE: He nods at Curt, looking cautiously around the dark lot.
JOE: Despite you scratching Gil's car, I like you. And I know what you'd like more than anything right now. Like every guy in town, you got the same secret dream, right?
JOE: Ya want to join the Pharoahs. Huh? You can admit ityou'd like tobut you never dreamed it could be possible, did you?
JOE: Well, tonight, I'm goin' to give you your chance.
JOE: Get down!
JOE: Okay. Now you got it? I'm stayin' here. You're on your own.
CURT: Wait a minute, wait a minute, Joe. What if he hears me?
JOE: Shhh. Listen. Look at it this way: Now you got three choices. One, you chicken out. In that case, I let Ants tie you to the car and drag you around a little bit. And you don't want that, right?
CURT: Two, you foul up and Holstein hears you and well, ah. you don't want that, right?
JOE: Two, you foul up and Holstein hears you and well, ah. you don't want that, right?
CURT: No, I don't.
JOE: Three, you are successful and you join the Pharoahs with a carcoat, and the blood initiation and all that, huh?
CURT: ( seeing Joe walk away ) Waitwait a minute. Wait a minute! What blood initiation?
MAIN STREET: Terry and Debbie are walking across the street, Terry looks miserable and disconsolate about the loss of the Chevy he possessed for three short hours. Debbie tries to be more positive about the situation.
DEBBIE: Hey, why don't we go get your jeep?
TERRY: What? What are you talking about?
DEBBIE: You know, your jeep. The one you sold the hunting ponies for. The one with the four-wheel drive.
DEBBIE: Come on, TerryTerry?
JOE: Hey, you sure you got enough slack?
CURT: Yeah, yeah. No sweat. Let's get out of here.
MAIN STREET: Joe shifts into high gear and is flying down the main drag. Terry and Debbie look startled as they see the Pharoah's Mercury roaring byand Curt leaning out the door, shouting Terry and Debbie watch the Merc speed suicidally past Jerry's Cherries Used-Car Lot. Holstein spots them and the driver starts up the engine of the squad car. THe red lights start flashing and the siren wails. The patrol car shifts into gear and leaps forward. Suddenly, there's a horrendous metallic screech, the patrol car hurtles up and out, airborne for a momentthen noses down and bounces along the pavement, sending out sparks as it slides to a stop. The driver is stunned and frozen to the wheel. Holstein manages to remove his dark glasses and looks back. There, sitting quietly in the middle of the parking lot, is their trans-axle and two rear wheels. The patrol car sits on the ground at a twenty degree angle, while its engine whines impotently at top speed. On the radio, the all-seeing Wolfman gives an evil laugh
CURT: Stand by for Justice!
CAROL: Why are we stopping here?
JOHN: ( in a husky voice ) II don't think that I can control myself any longer.
CAROL: II don't think that I can control myself any longer.
JOHN: II don't think that I can control myself any longer.
CAROL: You can't?
JOHN: No. Carol, I've got to have you.
CAROL: He touches her hair and she slouches back into her corner
JOHN: All night you've been sitting there and you've been so sexy and it's been so hotand I can't wait any Wellwell, a lot of that's an act, you know. Like. like my crying. It was just an act.
CAROL: Wellwell, a lot of that's an act, you know. Like. like my crying. It was just an act.
JOHN: Well, it's been building up inside of me like a volcano, all night. Maybe if I knew where you lived I could fight itI could take you homebut since you won't tell me, and since here we areI've got to have you. It's too late
CAROL: It's not too late! It's never too late! 231 Ramonatwo three one
JOHN: ( smiling ) Two three one
CAROL: I'll show you! It's easy to find.
BUDDA: Hi. You mind if I sit down?
STEVE: Hi Budda. No, have a seat.
BUDDA: I got five minutes outa the rat race, and I saw you all alone. For a change.
BUDDA: Where's Laurie?
STEVE: I don't know.
BUDDA: I thought the two of you'd be going strong, this being your last night and everything
STEVE: We broke up.
STEVE: No big deal.
BUDDA: Wow. what happened?
STEVE: Nothing. We were out at the canal and. we had a fight.
STEVE: What's so funny?
BUDDA: Nothing. Just thinking. A girl like LaurieI mean, she goes to school and is cute and popular and all, but we're not so different. We know what we want. I've seen her after you for two years now.
STEVE: She's not like that.
BUDDA: Maybe not. She does have a different approach. Hers is "Never surrender," me I lay down my arms at the drop of a hat
BUDDA: ( yelling back ) All right, relax. old fart. Listen, I'm off in an hour. If you wanta come over, my girlfriend's away for the weekend.
STEVE: I don't know.
BUDDA: Why don't you? I never got a chance to talk to you. You're leaving tomorrow. Listen, I gave up a long time ago, so it'd be just for fun. No problems.
BUDDA: I'll see ya later then.
STEVE: Budda, Budda wait.
STEVE: I gotta get up early andI just don't think it'd work out.
BUDDA: She's got you so brainwashedwell, hell. Some day I'm gonna win. Don't ya think?
STEVE: She smiles briefly, then turns and leaves. Steve watches her MEL'S DRIVE-IN The drive-in remains a raucous roar: Cars coming in from the hop, from the movies, other cars going out to the canal or back out to cruise. Only the car hops, who have developed a late-hour, harried look, suggest it's nearly closing time. The Pharoahs arrive. The Mercury swings imperiously into the lot. The radio can be heard as the rumbling engine dies. The Clovers are singing "Love Potion #9." Curt jumps out of the Mercury elated. The Pharoahs all climb out and circle him, punching him playfully. Joe holds him while Carlos tickles him and they all laugh.
JOE: Oh mother, it's been a glorious night.
CARLOS: That was the bitchinest thing I ever seen in my whole life.
ANTS: I seen a little kid attacked by pigs once, but this was even better.
JOE: Oh boy, I'll tell you something, that car must've jumped five feet in the air!
JOE: You sure you got to go? The night's Yeah, there's some things I got to do. I still want to find that blonde.
CURT: Yeah, there's some things I got to do. I still want to find that blonde.
JOE: I think she was an optical delusion, man. Psychology-wise it ain't good to dwell on it. You'll alter your ego or something. Anyway, catch ya tomorrow night?
CURT: Yeah, I guess so.
JOE: Guess so? Man, we don't admit a lot of guys to the Pharoahs. You understand we're going to have to swipe your jacket and allyou gotta make up your mind. HeyI'll see you guys.
CURT: HeyI'll see you guys.
JOE: Surelisten, remember, Rome wasn't buried in a night. My, my, my. You only got five minutes left, if you want to talk to the Wolfman. Gonna make all your dreams come true, baby.
WOLFMAN: Would you dedicate a record to keep me and my girlfriend together?
VOICE: Would you dedicate a record to keep me and my girlfriend together?
WOLFMAN: Are you separated?
VOICE: Well, see, we're havin' a little I'll bring you right together. Hold on a minute, man. Hi ya, hi ya, hi, hi, hi. Everything's gonna be all right now, man, you understand? Now, let me play the record for you.
WOLFMAN: I'll bring you right together. Hold on a minute, man. Hi ya, hi ya, hi, hi, hi. Everything's gonna be all right now, man, you understand? Now, let me play the record for you.
FALFA: Hey Hey Hey, baby, what do you say?
LAURIE: Just don't say anything and we'll get along fine.
JOHN: This the first time you've been quiet all night.
CAROL: I had fun. Goodbye.
CAROL: Do you like me?
JOHN: Yeah. I like you. You're all right.
CAROL: But I mean, do you like me?
JOHN: I, ah. I like you. Okay?
CAROL: Couldn't I have something to remember you by?
JOHN: 'Bye, kid.
CAROL: Gee, thanks. It's just like a ring or something.
JOHN: It's like we were going steady. Wait'll I tell Marcia.
CAROL: It's like we were going steady. Wait'll I tell Marcia.
JOHN: Wait a minute, now.
CAROL: Wait'll I tell everybody.
JOHN: Don't go overboard with this thing.
CAROL: Well, I'll see you around.
CURT: Hold that up.
STEVE: ( taking the hood from him ) I've been thinkingmaybe you're right. Why should I leave home to find a new home. Why should I leave friends that I love to find new Wait a minute, wait a minute. I've heard this already. Aren't you the one who for eight weeks has been telling me you have to leave the nest sometime?
CURT: Wait a minute, wait a minute. I've heard this already. Aren't you the one who for eight weeks has been telling me you have to leave the nest sometime?
STEVE: I realize that. I realize
CURT: Nono realizing. You've been telling me all summer that it's time to pull your head out of the sand and take a look at the big, beautiful world out there. Gimme this thing.
STEVE: ( letting him close the hood ) I don't knowI
CURT: ( banging the Citroen hood shut ) I feel like a mid-wife.
STEVE: I guess I was wrong. I may have been Wrong nothing. You've been talking about getting out of this town for eight weeks. And nowgoddamnit! you're justyou're just mentally playing with yourself. If you can just relax, we'll talk about it at the airport.
CURT: Wrong nothing. You've been talking about getting out of this town for eight weeks. And nowgoddamnit! you're justyou're just mentally playing with yourself. If you can just relax, we'll talk about it at the airport.
STEVE: Where are you going? It's awfully early in the morning.
CURT: I have a dental appointment.
STEVE: Come on, Curt.
CURT: Just relax, wil ya? I'll see you at the airport.
GUY: I never seen a guy lose so much. He mustn't have been used to drinking.
DEBBIE: Oh no, he really likes to drink. He told me.
OLD MAN: Gettin' late. I knew a man once who got this sick. Billy Webber. That was ten years ago. What do you think that was there, that he had for dinner?
OLD WOMAN: Staying on his hands and knees like He looks like a dog, doesn't he? Looks like old Ginger.
OLD MAN: Sicker than a dog, that's for sure.
TERRY: Ohh rats, I feel like Wait a second. hey!
TERRY: It'soh my godit looks like Steve's car. Look, right here under our it's my car. My car. We found it.
DEBBIE: Maybe we oughta call the police.
TERRY: Never get here in time. I got a better idea. We'll just steal it back. See if you can find some wire around. We only need a foot to hot-wire it.
ATTENDANT: Took the header plugs off. Expectin' some action?
JOHN: Yeah. Think so. There's some punk lookin' for me.
ATTENDANT: Why the hell do they bother? You've been number one as long as I can Yeah. it's been a long time, ain't it? I'll see ya. Thanks.
JOHN: Yeah. it's been a long time, ain't it? I'll see ya. Thanks.
TERRY: Ah, hithis is my car. What I mean is, somebody stole my carI mean I lost my car and I want to thank you two guys for
TERRY: for returningI mean finding it. I mean, listen now, listen guys I've been sick recently, and this kind of activity can really be hard on a guy. Now, easy will you? Easy!
DEBBIE: Stop it, stop it, stop it! Help! Police! You creeps! Go, John!
TERRY: Go, John!
DEBBIE: Hit him!
JOHN: Hey, man, you all right?
TERRY: Yeah. I'll die soon and it'll all be Wowyou're just like the Lone Ranger.
DEBBIE: ( looking at John ) Wowyou're just like the Lone Ranger.
JOHN: ( eyeing Debbie ) Yeah. Listen, are you with the Toad, or were you with them?
TERRY: You're talking to the woman I love.
JOHN: What happened, man?
STEVE: Hi, Karen, Judy.
JUDY: Hi, Steve. Have you seen Laurie
JUDY: Well, we have.
STEVE: ( already annoyed ) Oh yeah. So what?
JUDY: So nothing. She was just with a really cute guy in a boss car. We wondered who he was.
STEVE: I wouldn't know.
JUDY: We do. His name's Bob Falfa.
TERRY: Help. I mean, I want two cherry cokes with lots of ice. Never mind, forget the cokes, just bring the ice, pronto.
STEVE: Out! OUT!
TERRY: I need the carnow.
STEVE: I need the carnow.
TERRY: What's going on?
STEVE: I'm about to find out.
DEBBIE: I don't believe it! You practically get killed trying to get your car back, then you let him have it.
TERRY: It's not my car.
DEBBIE: IT IS NOT MY CAR! Well, where is your car?
TERRY: IT IS NOT MY CAR! Well, where is your car?
TERRY: IT IS NOT MY CAR! Well, where is your car?
DEBBIE: Well, where is your car?
TERRY: I DON'T HAVE A CAR! You don'tno car at all. What about your jeep?
DEBBIE: You don'tno car at all. What about your jeep?
DEBBIE: No car. well, how am I going to get home? Where's your car? I gotta hook 'em to your car.
CAR HOP: Where's your car? I gotta hook 'em to your car.
JOHN: What's wrong, Toad? You lose the car No. Steve took it.
TERRY: ( softly ) No. Steve took it.
DEBBIE: You know, I had a pretty good time Oh come on, you're just
TERRY: Oh come on, you're just
DEBBIE: No, no, really. I really had a good time. I mean, you picked me up and we got some hard stuff and saw a hold-up, and then we went to the Canal, you got your car stolen, and then I got to watch you gettin' sick, and then you got in this really bitchin' fight. I really had a good time.
TERRY: You think so? Yeahwell I guess I have pretty much fun every night.
DEBBIE: Anyway if you're not doing anything tomorrow night, why don't you come Yeahwell, I might be busy, you know. But we couldwell, I got a little Vespa I just play around with.
TERRY: Yeahwell, I might be busy, you know. But we couldwell, I got a little Vespa I just play around with.
DEBBIE: Really? Why that's almost a motorcycle. And I just love
DEBBIE: I got to go.
TERRY: See ya.
DEBBIE: See ya.
TERRY: See ya.
CURT: It'sI want to talk to the Wolfman.
VOICE: The Wolfman ain't here.
CURT: I know, but I got to get in touch with him. I got something to give him before
VOICE: We don't take no deliveries after eight. Come back tomorrow.
CURT: No, I can't. I want to ask him something that
VOICE: Dedications by phone is Diamond 75044. Wolfman Top 40 is Box 13, Chula Vista. Wolfman Sweatshirts is Wolf Enterprises, Bakersfield. 'Bye.
CURT: Listen, I got a right to talk to him. I listened to him every night for as longfor twelve years almost. I know him and it's personal and it'll only take a minute and I bet Wolfman would be upset if he knew a friend couldn't get in touch with
MANAGER: What do you want?
MANAGER: Pull the red switch.
CURT: I'm looking for a girl.
MANAGER: Aren't we all. She ain't here. Come on back to the booth. Hey, have a popsicle. The ice box just broke down and they're meltin' all over the place. You want one?
MANAGER: Hey, have a popsicle. The ice box just broke down and they're meltin' all over the place. You want one?
CURT: No. Thanks. Listen, ah.
MANAGER: Have a popsicle.
CURT: Are you the Wolfman?
MANAGER: No, man. I'm not the Wolfman.
WOLFMAN: How're you doin', Diane?
DIANE: All right.
MANAGER: That's the Wolfman.
CURT: He's on tape. The man is on tape.
CURT: Well, ahwhere does he work? I mean, where is the Wolfman now?
MANAGER: The Wolfman is everywhere.
CURT: But I got to give him this note.
MANAGER: ( taking it from Curt ) Here, let me see the note. ( he reads it ) Hell, that's just a dedication. All I gotta do is relay it. And it'll be on the air tomorrow, or Tuesday at the latest.
CURT: No, no. See, this is very important. I may be leaving town tomorrow, and it's very important that Idamn it, that I reach this girl right now.
MANAGER: You don't know whether you're gonna leave town or not?
CURT: Well, I'm supposed to go to college back East tomorrow. And I don't know if I'm gonna go.
MANAGER: Wait a minute. Have a popsicle.
CURT: No, thank you.
MANAGER: Sit down a minute.
MANAGER: Listen, it's early in the morning. Now, I can't really talk for the Wolfman. But I think if he was here he'd tell you to get your ass in gear. Now, no offense to your home town here, but this place ain't exactly the hub of the universe, if you know what I mean. And wellI'll tell you this muchthe Wolfman does come in here now and then, with tapes, to check up on me, you know, and when I hear the stories he got about the places he goes. Hell, here I sit while there's a big beautiful world out there, don't ya know. Wolfman comes in last time talking about some exotic jungle country, handing me cigars he says was rolled on the naked thighs of brown beauties. The Wolfman been everywhere and he seen everything. He got so many stories, so many memories. And here I sit sucking on popsicles.
CURT: Why don't you leave?
MANAGER: Well, I'm no kid anymore. I been here a long time. And the Wolfman well, the Wolfman gave me my start and he's sorta become my life. I can't leave him now. Gotta be loyal to the Wolfman, you understand.
MANAGER: I tell you what. If I can possibly do it tonight, I'll try to relay this dedication and get it on the air for you later on.
CURT: That'd be great. Thanks. Really.
MANAGER: Sorry, sticky little mothers ain't they? Bye.
CURT: Curt goes out the door. He starts back out through the maze of windows and electronic machines. Echoing throughout the rooms, the Wolfman's raucous voice follows Curt. The Wolfman howls and Curt turns. Through the maze of glass, shifting like prisms, he sees the station manager sitting by the mikehowling! Then, he laughs and howls again, starting to sing a song called "Bluebirds on My Dingaling," pounding out the rhythm on the console.
CURT: He backs away, leaving the Wolfman, who's on his feet now, screaming out the end of the song, dancing by himself in the little glass room, from which his voice radiates out through the night and around the world.
TERRY: Hey, John, let me go with you. Come Naw, man. I can't take you when I'm racin' somebody.
JOHN: Naw, man. I can't take you when I'm racin' somebody.
TERRY: Ah, come on. Just let me go. So I can watch. Or, I'll flag you, okay?
JOHN: All right. Go ahead.
JOHN: Paradise Road. All right now, where's this Paradise You just follow this street straight out of town. Listen, if you're gonna race John Milner, you can let me out right when we get there.
FALFA: All right now, where's this Paradise You just follow this street straight out of town. Listen, if you're gonna race John Milner, you can let me out right when we get there.
LAURIE: You just follow this street straight out of town. Listen, if you're gonna race John Milner, you can let me out right when we get there.
FALFA: Why don't you shut up, baby? You ain't said one word all night long. What a weird broad. But you're gonna appreciate me soon. You're gonna be hangin' on for mercy, when I get this sucker rollin'.
DALE: You heading out to Paradise Road?
STEVE: Paradise Road, I'm not
DALE: Some guy named Falfa going up against John's racing Falfa?
STEVE: John's racing Falfa?
DALE: Yeah. Figured something was up, saw them going out of town real cautious and then
PARADISE ROADDAWN: John's '32 yellow deuce coupe and Falfa's black '55 Chevy are waiting side by side on a long, straight country road, their front wheels resting on a weather-beaten starting line. The sky is getting lighter as the radio plays "Green Onions." There are about six to eight other cars parked off the road to watch the race. Everything is quiet now, only the crickets ignoring the solemnity of the scene, and still singing. Terry jumps out of John's car, John hands him the flashlight and he takes up a position in front of the two cars. John looks over at Falfa, who's arguing with Laurie.
JOHN: HeyLaurie, what in the hell are you doing in there? Is she gonna ride with you?
LAURIE: Mind your own business, John.
FALFA: Yeah, she's with me. You worry about yourself, man.
TERRY: Everybody ready?
STEVE: You stupid sonofabitch, she was in that car! Why did you have
LAURIE: I said I didn'tyou lousy greasy jerk! You coulda killed mewhat's wrong with you. You clubfoot.
LAURIE: No, no, no. Please, don't come near me. No, please. I think I'm gonna be sick. Oh, Steven.
STEVE: Laurie, please.
LAURIE: Oh, Steven! Oh, Steven, please, don't leave me. Don't leave me, Steven.
STEVE: I won't.
LAURIE: I couldn't bear it.
STEVE: I won't.
LAURIE: Believe me. Come on, before she blows.
STEVE: Believe me. Come on, before she blows.
JOHN: Come on, before she blows.
TERRY: Jeez, did you show him! He'll probably never even get in a car again.
JOHN: He was faster.
TERRY: It was beautiful, John. Just beauti
JOHN: I was losin', man.
TERRY: He had me, man. He was pullin' away from me just before he crashed.
JOHN: He had me, man. He was pullin' away from me just before he crashed.
TERRY: You're crazy.
JOHN: You saw it.
TERRY: No, you creamed him, from right off the line. The guy never had a chance.
JOHN: Shit, Toad. The man had me. He was beating me.
TERRY: John, I don't know what you're talking about. It was the most beautiful thing I've ever seen. That guy, he might as well get a wheelchair and roll himself home. Man, you got. you got the bitchinist car in the Valley. You'll always be number one, John. You're the greatest.
JOHN: Look at your glasses, man. Okay, Toad. We'll take 'em all.
TERRY: ( grinning ) We'll take em. let's get out of
JOHN: We'll take em. let's get out of
TERRY: Jesus, what a night.
CURT: Hello, hello, hello!
CURT: Yeah. this is Curt, who is this?
VOICE: Who were you expecting?
CURT: Do you drive a white T-Bird?
VOICE: A white '56. I saw you on Third You know me.
CURT: You know me.
VOICE: Of course!
CURT: Who are you? How do you know me?
VOICE: It's not important.
CURT: ( excitedly ) It's important to me. You're the most perfect, beautiful creature I've ever seen and I don't know anything about you. Could we meet I cruise Third Street every night. Maybe I'll see you again tonight.
VOICE: I cruise Third Street every night. Maybe I'll see you again tonight.
CURT: No. I don't think so.
VOICE: I'm leaving. in a couple of hours. Where are you from?
CURT: I'm leaving. in a couple of hours. Where are you from?
VOICE: What's your name? At least tell me your name?
CURT: What's your name? At least tell me your name?
VOICE: Goodbye, Curt.
CURT: Wait a second! Wait a second!
AIRPORT DAY: A DC-3 prop airliner is warming up its engines as it waits to take off from a small country airport. There aren't too many people around. Just Curt and his friends and family seeing him off. Curt stands with a kindly-looking couple in their fifties. He hugs his mother and shakes hands with his Then, Curt moves to his friends. He shakes Steve's hand.
STEVE: Good luck.
CURT: Yeah, same to you. And I better see you there next year.
STEVE: Oh yeah, I'll be there.
CURT: Curt hugs his sister. Laurie holds on to him for a moment.
CURT: See ya later.
LAURIE: 'Bye 'bye, Curt.
CURT: So long, guys.
TERRY: Well, stay cool, man.
CURT: Ahdon't do anything I wouldn't do.
TERRY: Ahdon't do anything I wouldn't do.
CURT: I'll see ya, buddy.
JOHN: I know, you probably think you're a big shot, goin' off like thisbut you're still a punk.
CURT: Okay, John. So long.
THE END: Writers : George Lucas Gloria Katz Willard Huyck
