PRODUCTION DRAFT: FADE IN: INT. HARVEY’S BEDROOM - NIGHT A BEDROOM MIRROR. The room is dark. A perfectly square mirror hangs crooked on a wall. Suddenly, out of the darkness, the reflection of a man's face comes into focus. He stares straight ahead, perhaps studying his own unrecognizable reflection. It's quite clear this is a portrait of sickness; the man's pallor is gray, his eyes are confused. There is something most definitely Tentatively, the figure steps away from the mirror, leaving the frame empty and dark.
HARVEY: ( faintly ) Joyce. Joyce?
JOYCE: What's wrong, Harvey? What are you doing up?
JOYCE: What is it?
HARVEY: ( delirious, out of breath ) Tell me the truth. Am I some guy who writes about himself in a comic book? Or am I just am I just a character in that book?
JOYCE: If I die, will 'dat character keep goin'? Or will he just fade away.
HARVEY: If I die, will 'dat character keep goin'? Or will he just fade away.
JOYCE: Omigod, Harvey! Harvey, wake up!
BOYS: ( in unison ) Trick or treat!!
HOUSEWIFE: Well, look at this! All the superheroes on the porch! Ain't that
HOUSEWIFE: ( still yelling ) We got Superman here, Batman, his sidekick ROBIN, ohh, The Green Lantern
HOUSEWIFE: And what about you young man?
KID: What about what? Who are you supposed to be?
HOUSEWIFE: Who are you supposed to be?
KID: I'm Harvey Pekar ( pronounced "Pee Car" ).
HOUSEWIFE: Harvey Pekar? That doesn't sound like a super hero to me.
BOYS: ( mumbling ) Pecker, Pecker.
KID: I ain't no super hero, lady. I'm just a kid from the neighborhood,
KID: Ahh, forget this.
KID: Why is everybody so stoopid?
AMERICAN SPLENDOR: The high-energy music and upbeat titles in direct contrast to the sulking image of Harvey continue through the remainder of the credits.
HARVEY: Doc, you gotta help me. My old lady's dumping me 'cause I can't talk. She says I'm a social embarrassment. Now that she's got her PhD, she's some hot shit academic star an' I'm nuthin' but a file clerk with nothin' ta say an' no voice ta say it. But me bein' a file clerk was fine when I wrote the damn check for her tuition
DOCTOR #1: Harvey, stop talking please, and open wide.
HARVEY: I just don't get it. We were doin' okay for a while. Then we took that stupid belated honeymoon. I started losin' my voice on the plane. Can you believe that. On the plane, Bad timing, I guess. Now please say "Ah," Mr. Pekar.
DOCTOR #1: Bad timing, I guess. Now please say "Ah," Mr. Pekar.
HARVEY: ( without missing a beat ) "Ahhh" ruined the trip. I got crazy, started to worry my voice would never come back. I mean, my wife didn't know me so long before we got hitched. What if she totally forgets what I'm like? Man, it's torture
DOCTOR #1: The Doctor shines a penlight into Harvey's mouth and looks He raises an eyebrow. Harvey catches this. Hypochondria overtakes him.
DOCTOR #1: He raises an eyebrow. Harvey catches this. Hypochondria overtakes him.
HARVEY: ( the penlight in his mouth ) What? Is it bad, doc?
DOCTOR #1: It's not good.
HARVEY: It's cancer? First I got marital problems and now yer tellin' me I got throat cancer? Omigod.
DOCTOR #1: Harvey, calm down. It's not cancer. You have a nodule on your vocal chords. Probably from screaming and yelling too much. And if you don't stop talking and give it a rest, you're gonna lose your voice
HARVEY: Whew. Okay, okay. But fer how long?
DOCTOR #1: A few months.
HARVEY: ( loudly )
DOCTOR #1: See? More of that and you'll do permanent damage. Now go home, keep your mouth shut, and hopefully we won't have to operate.
TOBY: Hi Harvey. You weren't in work today. Are you okay, Harvey? I'm heading downtown to the White Castle. Wanna come, Harvey?
TOBY: ( yelling after him ) I'm heading downtown to the White Castle. Wanna come, Harvey?
HARVEY: ( to himself ) Look at 'em yakkin'. How do they do ( yelling at Harvey ) Ay, what are you looking at? Maricone!
WOMAN #2: ( yelling at Harvey ) Ay, what are you looking at? Maricone!
HARVEY: ( shaking his head ) They all make it seem so easy.
HARVEY: ( whispering ) Ay. What is this?
LANA: Exactly what it looks like.
HARVEY: ( loud ) Whattya mean!! You mean yer dumpin' me?! Fer what? ( his voice really rips ) Ah, shit!
LANA: Look, your plebeian lifestyle isn't working for me anymore. Cleveland's not working for me anymore. I gotta get out of here before I kill myself.
HARVEY: She gathers her bags and heads for the door. Harvey trails her, trying to reason. He opens his mouth, but nothing comes out.
HARVEY: ( mouthing, just a wheeze ) Please! Wait, honey. Just listen to what I got to say.
SLAM!!: CUT TO:
NURSE: Thank you, Harvey dear.
HARVEY: ( to himself ) Plebeian. where the hell did she get that shit?
HARVEY: Huh? Oh. Hiya, Mr. Boats.
BOATS: You know what that means, son?
HARVEY: Yeah. It's from an Elinor Hoyt Wylie poem. It means stay away from the crowds of common ordinary people an' do yer own thing.
BOATS: Nope, it means don't compromise yourself for women. Ain't gonna do you no good! Get away from 'em as soon as you can!
HARVEY: Well I ain't got no woman now. So I'm living like the stoic bird, man.
MR. BOATS: The only way to live, son.
MR. BOATS: Look at that fool over there. What's he wearing?
HARVEY: Huh? That's an A.M.-F.M. radio he's listening to. They got 'em fixed up now like a pair of earmuffs.
MR. BOATS: ( inappropriately angered ) MMPH! Isn't that somethin! People have gone crazy. They'll buy any kinda junk! Probably listening to that loud rock stuff. Junk, junk, it's all junk!
HARVEY: Well, I don't know. Rock music's got some good qualities. I mean it ain't jazz or nothin'.
MR. BOATS: Say, when you gonna bring me in some good records? Some Nat "King" Cole with Strings.
HARVEY: I don't got any of that, Mr. Boats.
MR. BOATS: Yeah, you got it. You're keepin' it at home, though! You won't turn loose the good stuff. You just sell the junk!
MR. BOATS: ( singing ) Mona Lisa, Mona Lisa. Men have named
MARTY: C'mon, Harv. You dig Jay McShann. You gonna buy that or what?
HARVEY: I don't know, Marty. It's got a lamination crack in it. A quarter. Maybe I can get him down.
MARTY: You are one cheap bastard Harvey.
HARVEY: Yeah, I know I'm tight, man, but I live on a government wage.
CRUMB: You collect Jay McShann, man?
HARVEY: Yeah, man. How 'bout you?
CRUMB: Yeah but most of my records are back in Philly.
PAHLS: Harv, meet my buddy Bob Crumb. He just moved to town. He's an artist at American Greeting Card Company.
HARVEY: That's cool.
PAHLS: You should see his comics, Harv. They are outta sight.
HARVEY: ( interested ) Yeah? I'm into comics myself.
HARVEY: It's terrific, man! I really dig your work.
CRUMB: ( holding up a vintage comic ) This PETER WHEAT book is by Walt Kelly. It's pretty rare.
HARVEY: Yeah? Can I get good bread for it?
CRUMB: Nah! Not yet.
HARVEY: Listen man, let's get back to your book. What are you gonna do with it?
CRUMB: ( looking up ) I hadn't thought about it. It's just an exercise.
HARVEY: It's more than an exercise. It's breaking ground, man. There's some wild shit in here.
CRUMB: You're spitting on me, Harvey.
CRUMB: ( laughing ) Check it out, man. Pretty scary.
HARVEY: Yeah, ya don't know the half of it.
END FLASHBACK: DISSOLVE TO:
HARVEY: I dunno, man. On the one hand most women gettin' graduate degrees wouldn't give a guy like me the time a' day. An' she married me an' everything, so I gotta give her some kinda credit. But then she got so mean to me in the end. An' it ain't like I tried t'keep her captive or anything like that, y'know? An' then on top of it I lost my voice for three months. I still sound like shit, but before I had nothin'. Man, talk about hell. I started forgettin' what I sound like, y'know? So I started writin' stuff down stories an' things, my points a' view, ideas. I even published a couple jazz record reviews. I guess that ended up bein' a good thing.
HARVEY: An' then on top of it I lost my voice for three months. I still sound like shit, but before I had nothin'. Man, talk about hell. I started forgettin' what I sound like, y'know? So I started writin' stuff down stories an' things, my points a' view, ideas. I even published a couple jazz record reviews. I guess that ended up bein' a good thing.
CRUMB: But don't think I buy into this "growth" crap. Everybody talks about how bad experiences can cause ya t'grow, an' all that clichéd stuff. I've had enough bad experiences and growth to last me plenty. Right now, I'd be glad to trade some growth for happiness.
HARVEY: But don't think I buy into this "growth" crap. Everybody talks about how bad experiences can cause ya t'grow, an' all that clichéd stuff. I've had enough bad experiences and growth to last me plenty. Right now, I'd be glad to trade some growth for happiness.
HARVEY: So how long are ya stayin' in
CRUMB: I dunno, man. I gotta go visit this chick in New York. And I'm really busy with the comic book stuff. It's good bread and all man but I'm getting fed up with the whole scene.
HARVEY: What are ya talkin' about? Yer makin' a good living doin' yer art? Sheesh. How many guys get that lucky in their life, huh?
CRUMB: Yeah, I dunno.
HARVEY: Ya know man, people are startin' to know the name "Crumb." When you croak you're gonna leave something behind.
CRUMB: Yeah, my ashes and some crappy doodles. It's not like I'm Blind Lemon Jefferson or Big Mama Thornton.
HARVEY: C'mon, man. It sure beats workin' a gig like mine being a nobody flunky and sellin' records on the side for a buck.
CRUMB: Yeah, well that's true.
HARVEY: Damn it!
HARVEY: I'm starvin'.
CASHIER: ( yelling ) Frank! I need a price check.
CARTOON HARVEY: Man, Old Jewish Ladies will argue forever with a cashier about anything. Get behind them in a line an' yer gonna wait forever!
CARTOON HARVEY: I mean, I'm a yid myself, an' the women in my family are like that. But I never got used to it. I may be cheap, but I got limits!
CARTOON HARVEY: Wake up! You're whole life's gettin' eaten away by this kinda crap! What kind of existence is this? Is this all a workin' stiff like you can expect? Ya gonna suffer in silence fer the rest a' yer life?! Or ya gonna make a mark. Huh? Huh?
HARVEY: Shit. Work.
HARVEY: See, ever since I read your stuff, man I've been thinking I could write comic book stories that were different from anything being done.
CRUMB: ( munching on a fry ) I'm thinkin', the guys who do animal comics and super-hero stuff are really limited 'cause they gotta try to appeal to kids. And underground comics like yours have been really subversive or opened things up politically. But there is still plenty more ta be done with 'em, too, y'know?
HARVEY: I'm thinkin', the guys who do animal comics and super-hero stuff are really limited 'cause they gotta try to appeal to kids. And underground comics like yours have been really subversive or opened things up politically. But there is still plenty more ta be done with 'em, too, y'know?
CRUMB: Pass me the ketchup?
HARVEY: I mean with pictures and words, it could be more of an art form. Like those French movies are. Or De Sica over in Italy, y'know?. So I tried writin' some things about real life. Stuff the everyman's gotta deal with.
CRUMB: These are about you.
HARVEY: Er, yeah.
CRUMB: You turned yourself into a comic Sorta, yeah. But no idealized shit. No phony bullshit. The real thing, y'know? Ordinary life is pretty complex stuff.
HARVEY: Sorta, yeah. But no idealized shit. No phony bullshit. The real thing, y'know? Ordinary life is pretty complex stuff.
CRUMB: These are really good, Harv.
HARVEY: ( insecure ) Really? Ya think so?
CRUMB: Yeah. This is great stuff, man. I dig it. Can I take them home and illustrate them?
HARVEY: Harvey's voice breaks like a kid in puberty. He clears his throat. And something miraculous happens. When Harvey opens his mouth to speak his LARYNGITIS IS GONE!
HARVEY: You'd do that for me, man? That'd be great! I can't draw a straight line!
CRUMB: Hey, what's up with your voice, Harv? All of a sudden it sounds fine.
HARVEY: ( thrilled ) I don't know, man! I guess you cured
HARVEY: ( beaming ) See that? All stories by yours truly.
HARVEY: No way, Jack, I don't go in for that macho crap.
DOCTOR #3: I didn't know you could draw, Pekar.
HARVEY: Nah! I don't draw. I just write the stories. A buddy of mine and some of his friends do the art work.
TOBY: Harvey, am I in here? You promised I would be in here.
HARVEY: Yeah! Yeah! You're in there, alright? Jeez, Toby.
MR. BOATS: Let me see this.
TOBY: Mr. Boats, it's not polite to grab things. Next time
MR. BOATS: Son, you done good. Ya know, I was up in Toronto a few weeks back an' I saw the Red Chinese Ballet.
MR. BOATS: Now that was beautiful. The way those people were dancing together. Those Chinese work hard. I tell ya, they work hard Where is everybody goin'?
MR. BOATS: Where these sickly men rushin' off to? They ain't goin' nowhere for now. Maybe not for a long time. But damn if they ain't in a rush to get
MARTY: Hey look guys, here comes Captain
PAHLS: ( yelling out ) You gonna hang with the boys now that yer a comic book star? Cut it out. Man, I ain't nothin' yet compared to Bob Crumb.
HARVEY: Cut it out. Man, I ain't nothin' yet compared to Bob Crumb.
GUY #3: Ah, listen to him. One lousy comic book and he wants to be Crumb.
PAHLS: Hey Harvey, if ya wanna make comics for adults, ya oughtta put some dirty stuff in it.
GUY #3: Yeah, you can write about Marty's sex life.
GUY #3: Right Marty? I heard ya went out with Bonnie yesterday.
PAHLS: Yeah. Howdja do? Wudja git offa her?
MARTY: Ah, lousy. All's I got wuz armaround.
HARVEY: ( calming himself down ) I got a job. I got a job.
TOBY: Hi, Harvey. Do you want these gourmet jelly beans? I gave up sweets for
HARVEY: Huh? Sure, I'll take 'em.
HARVEY: Hey, watermelon. That's pretty good.
TOBY: I recommend the piña coladas. They are excellent and very authentic Hey Toby, can you eat lentils during Sure. I don't see why not. You can't eat meat on certain days, but lentils should be acceptable anytime.
HARVEY: Hey Toby, can you eat lentils during Sure. I don't see why not. You can't eat meat on certain days, but lentils should be acceptable anytime.
TOBY: Sure. I don't see why not. You can't eat meat on certain days, but lentils should be acceptable anytime.
HARVEY: Ya think there's any connection between lentils and lent?
TOBY: I don't think so but I'll ask Sister Mary Fred at church on Sunday.
HARVEY: Sister Mary Fred, huh? Is she cute? Sounds kinda mannish but who am I to be picky.
TOBY: Harvey, you're funny. She's a nun.
HARVEY: So what? Maybe she became a nun because she couldn't get a guy.
TOBY: Harvey, she became a nun because she had a higher calling.
HARVEY: Higher calling. That is such a crock of shit. I don't know why you waste your time prayin' anyway.
TOBY: Well, Harvey, I like the ritual. And I'm a very spiritual person. You know, you should try believing in something bigger than yourself. It might cheer you up.
HARVEY: ( calling after him ) What? Do I seem depressed, Toby?
HARVEY: ( to the Counter Girl ) Yeah! I'll have two crullers, a jelly donut with powdered sugar. And you got any "day old bread"?
ALICE: Hey, you're Harvey Pekar.
HARVEY: Alice Quinn. From school.
ALICE: Alice Quinn. From school.
HARVEY: Oh yeah. College. We had a couple lit classes together.
ALICE: What happened to you? You just disappeared after one semester.
HARVEY: I know, man. I got good grades and all but there was this required math class. I can't do math, an' that required class hangin' over my head made me crazy. Eventually the pressure got to be too much.
ALICE: Well, you're doing okay anyway. I heard all about your jazz reviews and your comics.
HARVEY: Ya did?
ALICE: Sure, you're famous. Meanwhile I got my degree but I'm just a plain old wife and mother.
HARVEY: Yeah. I'm not doing as great as ya think. My second wife divorced me and I work at a dead end job as a file clerk. Sometimes I hang out with the guys on the corner but most of the time I just stay home by myself and read.
ALICE: You're luckier than you think. My husband and kids make it impossible for me to cuddle up with a good book.
HARVEY: I'm reading this book by Dreiser now
ALICE: That's one of my favorites.
HARVEY: I hope it don't end like so many a' those naturalist novels. With someone getting crushed ta earth by forces he can't control.
ALICE: I think you'll be pleasantly surprised. It's certainly not a Hollywood happy ending, but it's pretty truthful. Which is rare these
ALICE: This is me.
HARVEY: Nice car. I don't have one yet.
ALICE: Can I give ya a lift somewhere?
HARVEY: Nah. It's a nice day. I'll just walk.
ALICE: Well, we should have you over sometime for dinner.
HARVEY: Sure, I'd be glad t'come. But if you really wanna do me a favor, introduce me to some a' your single girlfriends. I bet they're all smart like you. I'm no catch, though, so I'll take anything you can get me.
ALICE: I'll work on it.
ALICE: Nice seeing ya Harvey.
JOYCE: What happened to the new American We sold 'em, babe.
RAND: We sold 'em, babe.
JOYCE: All of them?
RAND: ( accusatory ) Damn it! I put one aside for myself, next to the register. I didn't even get a chance to read it.
JOYCE: ( accusatory ) Damn it! I put one aside for myself, next to the register. I didn't even get a chance to read it.
RAND: Whoa, sorry, Joyce. I didn't know you were such a Splendor fan. Next time take it home.
JOYCE: Maybe I'll call the publisher. But they take so damn long. Shit! Why does everything in my life have to be such a complicated disaster.
RAND: Okay, I'm gonna hustle before the vibe in here gets any worse.
HARVEY: .man, she's got good lookin'
HARVEY: Dear Joyce, Thanks for the letter. Whattya do besides sellin' comics?
HARVEY: Look, I think you an' I got a lot in common. How am I gonna get you to come visit me in Cleveland?
HARVEY: It's a great idea. You should meet me, 'cause I'm a great guy. Despite the way my comics read, I got a lot of redeeming characteristics.
JOYCE: I don't know. Where would I stay?
JOYCE: I'm not worried about that. Hold on, I just spilled chamomile tea all over my bathrobe.
JOYCE: ( sipping ) Well, the way all those different artists draw you, I don't quite know what to expect. I mean sometimes you look like a younger Brando, but then the way Crumb draws you like a hairy ape with all those stinky, wavy lines radiating off your body it's kind of scary.
JOYCE: That's a dangerous offer. I'm a notorious reformer.
JOYCE: Hi, Harvey. We finally meet in person.
HARVEY: Hiya. Look, before we get started with any of this, ya might as well know right off the bat. I had a
HARVEY: What's wrong?
JOYCE: Somethin's wrong. Yer lookin' around I guess I never imagined you eating in a place like this.
HARVEY: Somethin's wrong. Yer lookin' around I guess I never imagined you eating in a place like this.
JOYCE: I guess I never imagined you eating in a place like this.
HARVEY: Me? I never been here. I thought you'd like it. But obviously ya don't, do ya?
JOYCE: It's fine. What difference does it
HARVEY: I dunno. None, I guess. They sure got a lot of meat on this You're a vegetarian?
JOYCE: You're a vegetarian?
HARVEY: Kinda. I mean ever since I got a pet cat, I couldn't eat animals anymore.
JOYCE: Hmm. I support and identify with groups like PETA, but unfortunately I'm a self-diagnosed anemic. Also, I have all these food allergies to vegetables that give me serious intestinal distress. I guess I have a lot of borderline health disorders that limit me politically when it comes to eating.
HARVEY: Wow. Yer a sick woman, huh?
JOYCE: Not yet. But I expect to be. Everyone in my family's got some kind of degenerative illness.
WAITRESS: ( sing song ) Good afternoon! I'm your server Cindy! What can I bring you two today?
HARVEY: Look, I was gonna clean up, but why should I give you any false notions? The truth is I got a serious problem with cleanliness. I could wash a dish ten times and it'd still dirty. They even kicked me outta the Army 'cause I couldn't learn ta make a
JOYCE: I've seen worse.
JOYCE: Harvey, go get me water and a few
HARVEY: What, ya got a headache?
JOYCE: No, but I want to avoid one.
HARVEY: Well lemme tell ya Joyce, it sure is nice ta have company. I mean, despite all your problems, you seem like a great person. An' hey, sorry if my dating skills are kinda rusty, but I've just been through hell and back with women. I mean that last one turned out to be a real nasty bitch.
JOYCE: I had a nice time with you, too.
HARVEY: Yeah? You had a nice time?
JOYCE: Don't make people repeat themselves. It's annoying.
HARVEY: Oh, sorry.
JOYCE: She pulls him close. Harvey plants a kiss on her. They slowly separate. Joyce's eyes are closed. She likes him. He kisses her again. They start making out, moaning a But before it gets heavy
JOYCE: Joyce opens her eyes. She looks uneasy.
HARVEY: Joyce opens her eyes. She looks uneasy.
JOYCE: Which door's the bathroom?
HARVEY: Hey, Joyce! What's wrong? What is Ugh! I don't know. I think that yuppie food did me in.
JOYCE: Ugh! I don't know. I think that yuppie food did me in.
HARVEY: I feel terrible. Lemme at least do something for you.
HARVEY: Can I make ya something? How about some chamomile tea?
JOYCE: Chamomile tea? What the hell's a guy like you doing with that? I thought you drink soda pop for breakfast.
HARVEY: The girl at the Food Co-op picked me out all kinds of herbal stuff. One of 'ems good for stomachaches. Grandma Bear's Tummy Mint, I think. Are you still there?
JOYCE: Harvey, we better skip this whole courtship thing and just get married.
HARVEY: Man, am I glad I talked you into comin' up here. Any more time alone and I mighta lost it fer good.
JOYCE: Me too.
HARVEY: So you don't have any problems with movin' to Cleveland?
JOYCE: Not really. I find most American cities depressing in the same way.
HARVEY: An' yer okay with the vasectomy thing?
HARVEY: Ay Toby.
TOBY: ( mouth full ) No you can't have any of my White Castle hamburgers so please don't even ask.
HARVEY: Can I have a fry?
TOBY: Okay, but just a couple, Harvey. I'm not going to eat dinner until very late and this has got to hold me Whattya got, a church function?
HARVEY: ( munching ) Whattya got, a church function?
TOBY: No, I'm driving to Toledo to see a movie. Would you like to come?
HARVEY: Nah. I gotta fly to Delaware tonight. I'm gettin' married.
TOBY: Oh. Why Delaware?
HARVEY: The chick I'm marryin' is from Wilmington. Plus, I gotta help her move her stuff here. Why you drivin' ta Toledo to see a It's not playing at the Mapletown. I didn't know you had a girlfriend, Yeah. We met last week.
TOBY: It's not playing at the Mapletown. I didn't know you had a girlfriend, Yeah. We met last week.
HARVEY: Yeah. We met last week.
HARVEY: Toby, what movie could possibly be worth drivin' 260 miles round trip It's a new film called "Revenge of the Nerds." It's about a group of nerd college students who are being picked on all the time by the jocks, so they decide to take revenge. I already saw it once.
TOBY: It's a new film called "Revenge of the Nerds." It's about a group of nerd college students who are being picked on all the time by the jocks, so they decide to take revenge. I already saw it once.
HARVEY: Wow, ya really dig this movie.
TOBY: I like it a lot, Harvey.
HARVEY: What are these nerds like? How would you describe them?
TOBY: Hmm. Nerds are smart but they look and act differently than other people. Like nerds might wear polyester button- down shirts and flood pants where their ankles and their socks are
HARVEY: So what yer sayin' is you identify with those nerds?
TOBY: ( rubbing out the catsup ) Yes, I consider myself a nerd. And this movie has uplifted me. There's this one scene where a nerd grabs the microphone during a pep rally and announces that he is a nerd and that he is proud of it and stands up for the rights of other nerds. Then, he asks the kids at the pep rally who think they are nerds to come forward. So nearly everyone in the place does. That's the way the movie So the nerds won, huh?
HARVEY: So the nerds won, huh?
TOBY: ( smiling ) Wow. You got this movie an' I'm gettin' hitched. We both had a good month, huh?
HARVEY: Wow. You got this movie an' I'm gettin' hitched. We both had a good month, huh?
TOBY: ( finishing his last burger ) Right. Harvey, how long are you going to be in Delaware because I'd really like to see this movie with you?
HARVEY: I'm only goin' for a week but then I'll have a wife, so I'll have to take her along. Is it a girl flick?
TOBY: Depends on the girl. What kind of girl is your new bride? Is she a I don't know, man. Maybe. She's into herbal teas.
HARVEY: I don't know, man. Maybe. She's into herbal teas.
JOYCE: I agree with Toby. I think it's a story of hope and tolerance.
TOBY: Yes. It's about time that the people who get picked on get to be the
HARVEY: It's an entertaining flick an' I can see why you like it Toby, but those people on the screen ain't even supposed to be you! They're college students whose parents live in big houses in the suburbs. They're gonna get degrees, get good jobs and stop being nerds.
JOYCE: Harvey, what did I say about loud talking? Use your inside voice.
HARVEY: ( whispering loudly ) Look Toby, the guys in that movie are not 28-year-old file clerks who live with their grandmothers in an ethnic ghetto.
JOYCE: That's enough, Harvey.
HARVEY: They didn't get their computers like you did by trading in a bunch of box tops and $49.50 at the
TOBY: You're funny Harvey.
HARVEY: Sure, Toby. Go to the movies and daydream, but "Revenge of the Nerds" ain't reality. It's just Hollywood
REAL HARVEY: Y'see, I wasn't even married a month and my old lady was already showin' signs a' trouble. Granted, I tend ta get married fast 'cause I'll take any woman that'll have me, but this time I really met my match.
DIRECTOR: Okay, I think the thing with Joyce is that as manic as Harvey can be, she matches him with depression. In that way they complete each other. I mean, she's obviously a very smart woman, but she has a lot of trouble functioning in a world she can't control. And she's totally obsessed with all things negative; y'know, diseases, dysfuctions, etc.
JOYCE: What about these 78's, Harvey? Can't you sell them to one of those Are ya kidding? No way, man. I ain't getting rid of my 78's.
HARVEY: Are ya kidding? No way, man. I ain't getting rid of my 78's.
JOYCE: ( angry ) Forget it then. I give up! How can I make more storage space, if you won't get rid of anything?
HARVEY: I'll get rid of stuff. Just not my good stuff.
JOYCE: Everything's your good stuff. How am I supposed to live here, if there's no room for me?
HARVEY: Aw come on, baby. I'll make room for ya. You just have to give me time. I'm not so good at these kind of That's because you're obsessive compulsive Harvey.
JOYCE: That's because you're obsessive compulsive Harvey.
HARVEY: C'mon. I don't wanna hear that psychobabble crap!
JOYCE: I don't care if you wanna hear it or not. You're the poster child for the DSM III. I'll have you know that I come from a very dysfunctional family. I can spot personality disorders a mile away.
TOBY: Hello Joyce. Is Harvey home?
JOYCE: Borderline autistic!
JOYCE: Polymorphously Perverse.
JOYCE: Paranoid Personality Disorder.
ANSWERING MACHINE: Please leave a message.
HARVEY: ( into phone ) Hey Joyce, it's me. You're not gonna believe this but some LA producer called an' he wants to do a play about my life. Call me! ( Click )
JOYCE: ( to herself ) Delusions of grandeur.
HARVEY: I hate checkin' bags, man. It always takes forever.
HARVEY: Jesus, look at the time. The bus is gonna leave soon and there won't be another one for an hour. That means I gotta shell out an extra thirty bucks for a cab.
HARVEY: Hey wait, there's our Figures. That lucky Yuppie's gonna get on the bus in time.
JOYCE: Y'know Harvey, vasectomies are Damn Yuppies get everything.
HARVEY: ( ignoring her ) Damn Yuppies get everything.
JOYCE: ( raising her voice ) Are you listening to me? I said vasectomies are reversible.
HARVEY: What? Whattya talkin' about? I don't want kids. An' I came clean about my vasectomy the first time I set eyes on ya', right here in this airport.
JOYCE: I know but things have changed. I think we can be a family.
HARVEY: Family?! What kinda family could we possibly be? I ain't no good with kids. I can barely take care of I'll take care of the kid and you.
JOYCE: I'll take care of the kid and you.
HARVEY: ( dead serious ) No way Joyce. Forget it. I can't do it; I can't have no kids.
HARVEY: Where the hell is that Ornette Coleman album, Joyce? I got a review due
JOYCE: I didn't touch it, Harvey. Would you let me sleep?
HARVEY: But it's one o'clock! How late can a person sleep?
JOYCE: It happens to be Saturday you selfish sonofabitch! And don't you go telling me what to do. I'm the one who moved into your city, into your home, into your vasectomy and into your screwed- up life. The least you could do is allow me to live here my way.
HARVEY: ( upbeat ) We can go out for dinner tonight. How 'bout catching a bite at Tommy's?
JOYCE: ( mumbling ) I'm not hungry.
HARVEY: I give up.
HARVEY: Hey Joyce, we got a message here. Why didn't you pick up.
HARVEY: He presses the play button. ANGLE ON ANSWERING MACHINE: A loud "beep," then .
MALE VOICE: Hi, this is a message for Harvey Pekar. My name is Jonathan Greene and I'm a producer for LATE NIGHT WITH DAVID LETTERMAN. We'd like to talk to you about coming on the show to plug your comics. Please give me a call at 212-555-3333.
MALE VOICE: Hi, this is a message for Harvey
ESTABLISHING SHOT: The impressive skyline glistens in the spring sun.
HARVEY: Aw, c'mon. Who the hell cares?
HARVEY: Hey, whattya doin?
JOYCE: She resumes her mysterious sewing project; she seems to be making some kind of doll.
SHOW ): A 1980's DAVID LETTERMAN wisecracks.
JOYCE: People like this show?
HARVEY: I'm gettin' hungry back here. They oughtta leave ya donuts or somethin'.
STAGE MANAGER: Dave's ready for you now, Mr. Pekar.
HARVEY: Hey, you got anything ta eat? My stomach's growling.
STAGE MANAGER: ( checking his watch ) There's no time to eat now.
LETTERMAN: Okay. Our next guest works as a file clerk in a Cleveland hospital.
JOYCE: Wait a minute. Where's the doll?
HARVEY: He's got it at the desk. Will you relax about that already?
STAGE MANAGER: Guys, guys, we're in a hurry here.
LETTERMAN: .He also writes comic books which detail his day-to-day pains and pleasures, and this is an anthology of nine of those comics. It's entitled AMERICAN SPLENDOR. From off the streets of Cleveland, please say hello to Harvey Pekar.
HARVEY: I'm ready for those Cleveland jokes. Go ahead.
LETTERMAN: Alright settle down Harvey. Settle Now let's explain to folks who may not be familiar with your work what it is you do here, exactly. You have comic books about you in your daily life in Cleveland.
HARVEY: That's right.
LETTERMAN: And are they embellished at all or is it pretty much factual?
HARVEY: ( patronizing ) No. It's all true, David. All true.
LETTERMAN: And you also have a regular job in Cleveland working at a hospital.
HARVEY: That's right. Aiding the sick, yes.
LETTERMAN: Aiding the sick. Well that's certainly noble work.
HARVEY: Thank you. Thank you.
JOYCE: ( unimpressed ) Such brilliant repartee.
LETTERMAN: Now it seems to me Harvey that you have a very successful career here. This is being published by a major publishing company, Doubleday. Why do you maintain the day job?
HARVEY: ( defensive ) To make a living! ( big laughs ) I don't make a living as a writer. I've been writing for many years, David. Maybe more years than you've been alive.
HARVEY: Yeah, I know that my youthful appearance belies, you know, my actual age. But, I've been around for a long time
LETTERMAN REGULAR: ( to JOYCE ) You know this guy?
JOYCE: I'm beginning to wonder.
LETTERMAN: But I have a feeling though, if you wanted to, you could probably get by on what you make selling your work. Because I know people are after you to write other things. You're publishing this anthology.
HARVEY: Who? What people? What people? What are you talking about? Where the hell do you get that stuff?
HARVEY: I'm no show biz phoney. I'm telling the truth. Come on, man. At least he's keeping up with Pandering is more like it.
LETTERMAN REGULAR: ( to Joyce ) At least he's keeping up with Pandering is more like it.
JOYCE: Pandering is more like it.
JOYCE: LETTERMAN REGULAR
LETTERMAN REGULAR: Excuse me, but what are you doing?
JOYCE: I'm trying to get some news. You know there's a big story about to break about the US selling arms to Iran and the Contras.
LETTERMAN REGULAR: That's a monitor.
JOYCE: Ugh. Just forget it.
LETTERMAN: Harvey, I know you've got a job. I've got a job. We're both very lucky. We both have jobs.
HARVEY: Then what's the matter? We've gotta go. Harvey I like you. I'm on your side. I enjoy the comic books. And here, quickly tell us about the little doll here.
LETTERMAN: We've gotta go. Harvey I like you. I'm on your side. I enjoy the comic books. And here, quickly tell us about the little doll here.
HARVEY: My wife made it.
JOYCE: Finally something good. Watch this.
LETTERMAN: They're made out of your old clothing.
HARVEY: That's right.
LETTERMAN: And what do these go for?
HARVEY: Thirty-four bucks.
LETTERMAN: ( shocked ) Thirty-four dollars? Thirty-four dollars for this?
HARVEY: What are ya cheap. You cheaper than Would you pay thirty-four dollars for that?
LETTERMAN: Would you pay thirty-four dollars for that?
HARVEY: No but I'm not asking it. My wife
STAGE MANAGER: He's a natural.
LETTERMAN REGULAR: He is. Good stuff.
STAGE MANAGER: C'mon. Your turn.
HARVEY: Whad'ya think?
JOYCE: DISSOLVE TO:
LETTERMAN: Harvey, you are the embodiment of the American dream.
LETTERMAN: It is my pleasure to welcome back our next guest, the lovable Harvey
LETTERMAN: Tell me Harvey, what do you do to get away from the pressure of being well, a file clerk?
HARVEY: Go ahead and laugh, folks. But he has more contempt for you than I do!
MTV DIRECTOR: Christ! Watch where you're going!
HARVEY: ( muttering ) Fuckin' yuppie or whatever kinda freak you are.
TOBY: Hamburgers are a safer addiction than drugs. Say no to drugs. Say yes to White Castle!
JOYCE: ( looking up from the paper ) Harvey, I've been reading about these kids who grew up in war zones. Palestinians, Israelis, El Salvadorians, Cambodians. These kids are amazing and they're
YUPPIE: Hey, you're that guy from the Letterman show, right?
HARVEY: ( smiling ) Yeah, that's me.
YUPPIE: That's so excellent. You and Stupid Pet Tricks are a riot.
HARVEY: Yeah? Then why dontcha buy one of my comics, man. That's the only reason I go on that dumb show anyway.
YUPPIE: Right, sure. Later, Harvey Pekar!
HARVEY: Anyway, I want to do a political comic book about these kids. There's a conference in Jerusalem in a few weeks, and I can start by doing interviews there.
JOYCE: Anyway, I want to do a political comic book about these kids. There's a conference in Jerusalem in a few weeks, and I can start by doing interviews there.
HARVEY: Whoa whoa, wait a second. Jerusalem? I can barely drag you off the futon to go to the Letterman show.
JOYCE: Y'know why? 'Cause I don't give a damn about the Letterman show. I want to work on something important to me. Something that matters.
HARVEY: ( furious ) Hey! You know I only go on the show for the extra bread!
JOYCE: Harvey. you're yelling.
HARVEY: Maybe if you got yer lazy ass up and got a job, I could work on something that matters, too, huh?!
HARVEY: I'm sorry, baby. I I'm sorry.
HARVEY: This is crazy. Can't ya just do somethin' here in Cleveland?
JOYCE: Harvey, you'll survive a few weeks Alright. Be careful. I love you,
HARVEY: Alright. Be careful. I love you,
HARVEY: What do I care! Just gimme the chart What is your problem today?!
MIGUEL: What is your problem today?!
HARVEY: Look, Miguel! I just don't wanna keep comin' back here for it, okay?!
MIGUEL: Harvey, that patient's due t'be admitted a week from now! Why do you always have to be picking fights with everybody?
HARVEY: ( yelling ) How many times do we gotta go through the same bullshit. Just gimme the fuckin' chart!
MIGUEL: We'll see what the doctor says about
HARVEY: ( loudly into phone ) Whadya mean? Another two weeks? Ya gotta come home some time! Hello?
DAMNIT!: CUT TO:
HARVEY: ( threatening ) Okay, asshole. You'll pay for that
STAGE MANAGER: Joe, put more sodas in the fridge, there. And let's clean up the counters. That Pekar guy's a pig. Whoa. you guys. Check this out.
JOYCE: I guess you did it this time.
HARVEY: Who cares. He wasn't helpin' my sales Baby, don't go away anymore. I just can't take bein' alone.
JOYCE: If you met those kids over there and saw what they go through, you wouldn't ask that of me.
HARVEY: But if you go again I'm really gonna lose it.
JOYCE: It's not open for discussion, Harvey. I need this in my life right now.
JOYCE: But I do appreciate the fact that you missed me so much. C'mere.
JOYCE: Harvey, what is that?
JOYCE: I don't understand, does "tumor" mean the same thing as "cancer"?
DOCTOR #2: .cat scan. diagnosis. MRI. cancer. cancer. cancer.
HARVEY: How can I have cancer? I don't feel sick at all.
JOYCE: That's a positive thing.
HARVEY: My cousin Norman died of lymphoma. He was twenty-nine. He was a brilliant Stop it! You're not going to die, Harvey. You're not.
JOYCE: Stop it! You're not going to die, Harvey. You're not.
HARVEY: What's going to happen to you, baby? Who's gonna take care of you if I'm not around?
JOYCE: Harvey, look at me and focus. We are going to get through this. I understand illness. I know how to handle these things.
HARVEY: But that's you. I'm not strong enough. I don't know how ta be positive. I can't do it. I can't.
JOYCE: Yes, you can. And I'll tell you how. You'll make a comic book out of the whole thing. You'll document every little detail. And that way you'll remove yourself from the experience until it's over.
HARVEY: I can't do that. I'm just not strong enough. I just wanna die.
JOYCE: Fine. I'll do it without you.
FRED: Hey, I'm Fred. You called me about the comic book?
JOYCE: Right the artist. Come on in.
FRED: This is my daughter, Danielle. I had to bring her along. I hope you don't Hi, Danielle. What's that you're A pony.
JOYCE: Hi, Danielle. What's that you're A pony.
DANIELLE: A pony.
JOYCE: A pony? What's his name?
DANIELLE: She's a girl. Clarissa.
JOYCE: Oh, I see. Well, I'm Joyce. Nice to meet both you and Clarissa.
FRED: I'm really sorry to hear about Harvey. Is he here?
JOYCE: He's going to work until next week, when he starts the chemo. That's why I wanna get this project started now. Once he's stuck here, I know he'll take over.
HARVEY: Harvey tries the doorknob, but it's locked. He steps back on the lawn and looks around. Could he have dropped them? He retraces a few steps.
HARVEY: Harvey yells up at the window.
HARVEY: Joyce, open the door! I lost my keys again! Joyce!!
HARVEY: Joyce!! Open the fucking door!!
FRED: Hey, Harvey.
HARVEY: Harvey just stares at him. Fred opens the door to reveal: JOYCE and DANIELLE dancing together with the stereo blasting. They're having a ball.
FRED: Here are some ideas we batted around.
HARVEY: Sheesh. Joyce doesn't know what she's doing. There's too many words in these frames. When are ya comin' Uh, she said something about next Tuesday, which is fine with me. Only thing is, I might have the kid again. My ex-wife's supposed to take her, but I don't have much faith in her showing up. She is in worse shape than me these days.
FRED: Uh, she said something about next Tuesday, which is fine with me. Only thing is, I might have the kid again. My ex-wife's supposed to take her, but I don't have much faith in her showing up. She is in worse shape than me these days.
HARVEY: Next week my treatment begins. Do me a favor. Bring the kid with you.
HARVEY: I wanna die. just let me die.
HARVEY: ( faintly ) Joyce. Joyce?
JOYCE: What's wrong, Harvey? What are you doing up?
JOYCE: What is it?
HARVEY: ( delirious, out of breath ) Tell me the truth. Am I some guy who writes about himself in a comic book? Or am I just just a character in that book?
JOYCE: When I die, will 'dat character keep goin'? Or will he just fade away.
HARVEY: When I die, will 'dat character keep goin'? Or will he just fade away.
JOYCE: Omigod, Harvey! Harvey, wake up!
GREEN SCREEN: A SURREAL DREAM SEQUENCE We are now in a large, empty room similar to a blank comic book panel. A healthy, fully dressed Harvey appears in the corner of the frame. He is very far away, barely recognizable. We slowly dolly towards him as he delivers a formal soliloquy to the As Harvey speaks, one-dimensional comic book images from his life pass over the screen once again. This time in front of him, behind him, everywhere. We dolly in towards him.
HARVEY: My name is Harvey Pekar. It's an unusual name Harvey Pekar.
HARVEY: 1960 was the year I got my first apartment and my first telephone book. Imagine my surprise when I looked up my name and saw that, in addition to me, another Harvey Pekar was listed!
HARVEY: I was listed as Harvey L. Pekar. My middle name is Lawrence. He was listed as Harvey Pekar no middle initial. Therefore, his was a purer
HARVEY: Then, in the seventies, I noticed that a third Harvey Pekar was listed in the phone book! This filled me with curiosity.
HARVEY: How could there be three people with such an unusual name in the world, let alone in one city?!
HARVEY: Then one day, a person I worked with expressed her sympathy to me concerning what she thought was the death of my father. She pointed out an obituary notice in the newspaper for a man named Harvey Pekar. One of his sons was named Harvey. These were the other Harvey Pekars.
HARVEY: Six months later, Harvey Pekar Jr. died. Although I'd met neither man, I was filled with sadness. "What were they like," I thought. It seemed that our lives had been linked in some indefinable way.
HARVEY: But the story does not end there. For two years later another Harvey Pekar appeared in the directory. What kind of people are these? Where do they come from, what do they do? What's in a name?
HARVEY: Who is Harvey Pekar?
HARVEY: Hey Joyce. What is it Harvey?
JOYCE: What is it Harvey?
HARVEY: That was the doctor.
HARVEY: He said I'm all clear.
HARVEY: Ya keep readin' 'em backward.
DANIELLE: I like reading them backward. Is that you?
HARVEY: I keep tellin' ya, all of 'ems me, You look like a monster.
DANIELLE: You look like a monster.
HARVEY: Yeah, well wait'll ya see what you're gonna look like.
DANIELLE: Sure. Yer part of the story too, What story?
HARVEY: Sure. Yer part of the story too, What story?
DANIELLE: What story?
HARVEY: The story of my life.
HARVEY: Yeah, I know I'm not as interesting as The Little Mermaid and all that magical crap.
DANIELLE: Maybe I want to write my own comic.
HARVEY: Oh yeah? What about?
DANIELLE: I don't know yet. But not about you. You have enough already.
HARVEY: Ya know, you should write about things in your own life. Like school and. ponies. I don't know, girl stuff.
DANIELLE: ( to Harvey ) Do you have to hold my hand?
HARVEY: ( wounded ) What, are you embarrassed a' me? I know, I'm embarrassing. I felt the same way about my father.
DANIELLE: No Harvey. You're just squeezing it too hard. Joyce is right. You are obsessive
THE END: Writers : Robert Pulcini Shari Springer Berman
