AMERICAN PSYCHO: Mary Harron and Guinevere Turner Based on the novel by Bret Easton Ellis Fourth Draft November 1998
WAITER: Caesar salad. For entrées tonight I have a swordfish meatloaf with onion marmalade, a rare-roasted partridge breast in raspberry coulis with a sorrel timbale. Huge white porcelain plates descend on very pale pink linen table cloths. Each of the entrees is a rectangle about four inches square and look exactly alike. CLOSE-UP on various diners as we hear fragments of conversation. "Is that Charlie Sheen over there?" "Excuse me? I ordered cactus pear sorbet."
WAITER: pasta tonight is a squid ravioli in a lemon grass broth. CLOSE-UP on porcelain plates containing elaborate perpendicular desserts descending on another table. PATRICK BATEMAN, TIMOTHY PRICE, CRAIG MCDERMOTT and DAVID VAN PATTEN are at a table set for four. They are all wearing expensively cut suits and suspenders and have slicked-back hair. Van Patten wears horn-rimmed glasses. The camera moves in on Bateman as his narration begins:
VAN PATTEN: What do you mean?
PRICE: Well, is it strictly informal-
BATEMAN: ( Smiling ) charcoal gray vest. A plaid suit would cal I for a bolder But avoid matching the vest's pattern with your socks or tie. Wearing argyle socks with an argyle vest will look too studied.
BATEMAN: charcoal gray vest. A plaid suit would cal I for a bolder But avoid matching the vest's pattern with your socks or tie. Wearing argyle socks with an argyle vest will look too studied.
VAN PATTEN: VAN PATTEN Van Patten leaves the table. As he does so, a busboy discreetly removes their largely untouched plates.
PRICE: VAN PATTEN Van Patten leaves the table. As he does so, a busboy discreetly removes their largely untouched plates.
VAN PATTEN: Van Patten leaves the table. As he does so, a busboy discreetly removes their largely untouched plates.
BATEMAN: ( Staring at retreating waiter ) Did he just take our plates away?
PRICE: ( Staring at retreating waiter ) Did he just take our plates away?
PRICE: probably thought we were finished. God, I hate this place. This is a chicks' restaurant. Why aren't we at Dorsia? Because Bateman won't give the maitre d' head. ( He guffaws ) Bateman throws a swizzle stick at him. McDermott scans the room, settling on a handsome young man with slicked-back hair and horn-rimmed glasses. Is that Reed Robinson over there?
PRICE: Who is it then?
PRICE: room. Over there. He points to another handsome young man with slicked-back hair and horn-rimmed glasses. Who is he with?
BATEMAN: room. Over there. He points to another handsome young man with slicked-back hair and horn-rimmed glasses. Who is he with?
PRICE: cleavage as she bends over to uncork a bottle of wine – the waitress glares at him ) Some weasel from Kicker Peabody. Van Patten returns.
VAN PATTEN: Are you sure that's Paul Owen over there?
PRICE: He's handling the Fisher account.
PRICE: Lucky Jew bastard.
BATEMAN: Listen. I've seen the bastard sitting in his office on the phone with CEOs, spinning a fucking menorah. The bastard brought a Hanukkah bush into the office last December.
BATEMAN: You spin a dreidel. Oh my God. Bateman, do you want me to fry you up some fucking potato pancakes? Some latkes?
BATEMAN: Oh I forgot. Bateman's dating someone from the
PRICE: of reasonable. He shows McDermott the bill for the meal. Only $470.
VAN PATTEN: Not bad. The others murmur agreement. Four platinum Amex cards slap down on the table.
VAN PATTEN: story again. But I never told you what happened afterwards. So okay, I pick up this Vassar chick at Tunnel-hot number, big tits, great legs, this chick was a little hardbody-and so I buy her a couple of champagne kirs and she's in the city on spring break and she's practically blowing me in the Chandelier Room and so I take her back to my place-
BATEMAN: Oh fuck you. I want a blowjob, Bate-man. I want a chick who's gonna let me-
VAN PATTEN: I don't want to hear this. He's going to say something You prude. Listen, we're not gonna invest in a co-op together or jet down to Saint Bart's. I just want some chick whose face I can sit on for thirty, forty minutes. Price throws a cigar at McDermott, who catches it. Anyway, so we're back at my place and listen to this. She's had enough champagne by now to get a fucking rhino tipsy, and get this-
VAN PATTEN: This is a Vassar girl. She's not from Queens. She would only-are you ready? ( Dramatic pause ) She would only give me a handjob, and get this.she kept her glove on. The men sit in shocked, horrified silence. ALL IN UNISON Never date a Vassar girl.
PRICE: You take Amex, dude? The man stumbles away. The club DOORMAN, seeing the limousine, unhooks the velvet rope and welcomes them inside.
PRICE: AIDS virus through having sex with someone who is infected, then you can also catch anything-Alzheimer's, muscular dystrophy, hemophilia, leukemia, diabetes, dyslexia, for Christ's sake-you can get dyslexia from pussy-
BATEMAN: Price and Bateman finally get a stall and rush in. Price is Bateman opens a tiny packet of coke.
PRICE: Price and Bateman finally get a stall and rush in. Price is Bateman opens a tiny packet of coke.
PRICE: Bateman opens a tiny packet of coke.
PRICE: the corner of his Amex card in the packet and takes a snort ) Oh my God.
BATEMAN: the corner of his Amex card in the packet and takes a snort ) Oh my God.
PRICE: the corner of his Amex card in the packet and takes a snort ) Oh my God.
BATEMAN: Bateman dips his Amex in the envelope and snorts.
PRICE: Bateman dips his Amex in the envelope and snorts.
BATEMAN: enough of it we'll be okay.
PRICE: on my fucking All-Bran. The GUY IN STALL next door yells at them in an effeminate GUY IN STALL Price pounds his fist against the stall.
PRICE: SHUT UP! ( Raising his voice )
SHUT UP!: ( Raising his voice )
BATEMAN: ( Raising his voice )
PRICE: ( Raising his voice )
PRICE: No, FUCK YOU!! ( He collapses, panting against the stall door ) Sorry, dude. Steroids.Okay, let's do it.
BATEMAN: They both dig their platinum Amex cards into the envelope of white powder, shoveling it up their noses, then sticking their fingers in to catch the residue and rubbing it into their gums.
BARGIRL: a cash bar. That'll be twenty-five dollars. Bateman pulls out an expensive-looking wallet and hands her a $50. She turns her back and searches the cash register for BATEMAN You are a fucking ugly bitch I want to stab to death and then play around with your blood. The music muffles his voice. She turns around. He is smiling at her. She gives him his change impassively.
BATEMAN: balanced diet, in a rigorous exercise routine. In the morning, if my face is a little puffy, I'll put on an ice pack while doing my stomach crunches. I can do a thousand Bateman ties a plastic ice pack around his face. Bateman does his morning stretching exercises in the living room wearing the ice pack.
MAN: Bateman walks past the desk of JEAN, his secretary, pulling his Walkman from around his neck. Jean is attractive, wholesome, earnest. She smiles shyly. She loves him.
JEAN: he was canceling or why.
BATEMAN: he was canceling or why.
JEAN: he was canceling or why.
BATEMAN: Anyone else?
JEAN: Jean follows him into his office.
BATEMAN: Jean follows him into his office.
JEAN: Jean follows him into his office.
BATEMAN: Jean follows him into his office.
JEAN: Jean stands at his desk, waiting for instructions.
BATEMAN: Jean stands at his desk, waiting for instructions.
JEAN: Jean stands at his desk, waiting for instructions.
BATEMAN: at twelve-thirty, and if not there, try Crayons. All Yes, sir. She turns to leave.
JEAN: Yes, sir. She turns to leave.
BATEMAN: Jean turns around.
JEAN: Jean exits. Bateman straightens some magazines in his office, lifts a painting off the wall and puts it back at a slightly different angle. He fiddles with some pencils in a beer stein. He puts on some MUSIC and flips through a Sports Illustrated. He buzzes Jean. She comes in a moment later with the Perrier and a file.
BATEMAN: Jean exits. Bateman straightens some magazines in his office, lifts a painting off the wall and puts it back at a slightly different angle. He fiddles with some pencils in a beer stein. He puts on some MUSIC and flips through a Sports Illustrated. He buzzes Jean. She comes in a moment later with the Perrier and a file.
JEAN: Jean exits. Bateman straightens some magazines in his office, lifts a painting off the wall and puts it back at a slightly different angle. He fiddles with some pencils in a beer stein. He puts on some MUSIC and flips through a Sports Illustrated. He buzzes Jean. She comes in a moment later with the Perrier and a file.
BATEMAN: Jean exits. Bateman straightens some magazines in his office, lifts a painting off the wall and puts it back at a slightly different angle. He fiddles with some pencils in a beer stein. He puts on some MUSIC and flips through a Sports Illustrated. He buzzes Jean. She comes in a moment later with the Perrier and a file.
JEAN: Jean exits. Bateman straightens some magazines in his office, lifts a painting off the wall and puts it back at a slightly different angle. He fiddles with some pencils in a beer stein. He puts on some MUSIC and flips through a Sports Illustrated. He buzzes Jean. She comes in a moment later with the Perrier and a file.
JEAN: outfit again.
BATEMAN: outfit again.
JEAN: dress. A skirt or something. Jean stands there, then looks down at herself.
BATEMAN: dress. A skirt or something. Jean stands there, then looks down at herself.
JEAN: You don't like this, I take it?
BATEMAN: Thanks, Patrick. The phone RINGS and Jean turns to leave.
JEAN: Thanks, Patrick. The phone RINGS and Jean turns to leave.
BATEMAN: As Jean leaves, Bateman clicks on the TV set in one corner of the room and starts watching Jeopardy!
EVELYN: want, a zydeco band. Or mariachi. Or reggae. Something ethnic to shock Daddy Oh, I can't decide.And lots of chocolate truffles. Godiva. And oysters on the halfshell. CLOSE-UP on Bateman, who is wearing a Walkman and staring out the window.
EVELYN: Photographers. Annie Leibovitz. We'll get Annie Leibovitz. And we'll hire someone to videotape. Patrick, we should do it.
BATEMAN: anything you like, silly.
EVELYN: anything you like, silly.
BATEMAN: anything you like, silly.
EVELYN: anything you like, silly.
BATEMAN: anything you like, silly.
EVELYN: anything you like, silly.
BATEMAN: anything you like, silly.
EVELYN: anything you like, silly.
BATEMAN: quit? You don't have to work.
EVELYN: quit? You don't have to work.
BATEMAN: The taxi bumps to a halt.
PRICE: He gets up to greet them, giving Evelyn a suspiciously long He drags her away, half giggling and protesting.
PRICE: He drags her away, half giggling and protesting.
EVELYN: Pat, this is my cousin Vanden and her boyfriend Stash. He's an artist.
BATEMAN: checking his hair ) Hi. Pat Bateman. Vanden takes his hand reluctantly, says nothing.
BATEMAN: COURTNEY RAWLINSON and LUIS CARRUTHERS arrive at the table. Courtney is blonde, classically beautiful and from precisely the same social background as Evelyn, but she is considerably more fragile and neurotic. Luis is half-English, half-Argentinean, slightly overweight ( a rarity in this crowd ), puppyish and eager to please. He wears the same type of designer clothes as Price and Bateman, but with foppish tendencies: velvet jackets, bow-ties, boldly patterned vests. They exchange air kisses. As soon as Luis turns his back, Bateman sneaks a kiss on Courtney's neck.
STASH: COURTNEY RAWLINSON and LUIS CARRUTHERS arrive at the table. Courtney is blonde, classically beautiful and from precisely the same social background as Evelyn, but she is considerably more fragile and neurotic. Luis is half-English, half-Argentinean, slightly overweight ( a rarity in this crowd ), puppyish and eager to please. He wears the same type of designer clothes as Price and Bateman, but with foppish tendencies: velvet jackets, bow-ties, boldly patterned vests. They exchange air kisses. As soon as Luis turns his back, Bateman sneaks a kiss on Courtney's neck.
COURTNEY: Stop it! Stash and Vanden watch them in silence.
COURTNEY: becoming to.commercial?
CARRUTHERS: Oh ho ho. That affects us? What about the massacres in Sri Lanka, honey? Doesn't that affect us, too? I mean don't you know anything about Sri Lanka? About how the Sikhs are killing like tons of Israelis there? Doesn't that affect us?
PRICE: Oh ho ho. That affects us? What about the massacres in Sri Lanka, honey? Doesn't that affect us, too? I mean don't you know anything about Sri Lanka? About how the Sikhs are killing like tons of Israelis there? Doesn't that affect us?
VANDEN: Oh ho ho. That affects us? What about the massacres in Sri Lanka, honey? Doesn't that affect us, too? I mean don't you know anything about Sri Lanka? About how the Sikhs are killing like tons of Israelis there? Doesn't that affect us?
PRICE: Oh ho ho. That affects us? What about the massacres in Sri Lanka, honey? Doesn't that affect us, too? I mean don't you know anything about Sri Lanka? About how the Sikhs are killing like tons of Israelis there? Doesn't that affect us?
BATEMAN: problems than Sri Lanka to worry about. Sure our foreign policy is important, but there are more pressing problems at hand.
PRICE: down the nuclear arms race, stop terrorism and world hunger. But we can't ignore our social needs. either We have to stop people from abusing the welfare system. We have to provide food and shelter for the homeless and oppose racial discrimination and promote civil rights while also promoting equal rights for women but change the abortion laws to protect the right to life yet still somehow maintain women's freedom of choice. The table stares at Bateman uncomfortably.
BATEMAN: down the nuclear arms race, stop terrorism and world hunger. But we can't ignore our social needs. either We have to stop people from abusing the welfare system. We have to provide food and shelter for the homeless and oppose racial discrimination and promote civil rights while also promoting equal rights for women but change the abortion laws to protect the right to life yet still somehow maintain women's freedom of choice. The table stares at Bateman uncomfortably.
BATEMAN: immigrants. We have to encourage a return to traditional moral values and curb graphic sex and violence on TV, in movies, in pop music, everywhere. Most importantly we have to promote general social concern and less materialism in young people. Price chokes on his drink. Everyone is silent and INT. EVELYN'S BEDROOM - LATER THE SAME EVENING Bateman and Evelyn are lying on her bed watching television.
CARRUTHERS: INT. EVELYN'S BEDROOM - LATER THE SAME EVENING Bateman and Evelyn are lying on her bed watching television.
BATEMAN: Bateman unbuttons his shirt and makes advances to get Evelyn to have sex with him. She ignores him, watching the Home Shopping Channel with the remote in her hand. Finally, he straddles her, penis close to her face. She tries to look around him at the TV, then takes notice.
EVELYN: Bateman unbuttons his shirt and makes advances to get Evelyn to have sex with him. She ignores him, watching the Home Shopping Channel with the remote in her hand. Finally, he straddles her, penis close to her face. She tries to look around him at the TV, then takes notice.
BATEMAN: Bateman unbuttons his shirt and makes advances to get Evelyn to have sex with him. She ignores him, watching the Home Shopping Channel with the remote in her hand. Finally, he straddles her, penis close to her face. She tries to look around him at the TV, then takes notice.
EVELYN: Bateman unbuttons his shirt and makes advances to get Evelyn to have sex with him. She ignores him, watching the Home Shopping Channel with the remote in her hand. Finally, he straddles her, penis close to her face. She tries to look around him at the TV, then takes notice.
BATEMAN: Bateman unbuttons his shirt and makes advances to get Evelyn to have sex with him. She ignores him, watching the Home Shopping Channel with the remote in her hand. Finally, he straddles her, penis close to her face. She tries to look around him at the TV, then takes notice.
EVELYN: Bateman unbuttons his shirt and makes advances to get Evelyn to have sex with him. She ignores him, watching the Home Shopping Channel with the remote in her hand. Finally, he straddles her, penis close to her face. She tries to look around him at the TV, then takes notice.
BATEMAN: Bateman unbuttons his shirt and makes advances to get Evelyn to have sex with him. She ignores him, watching the Home Shopping Channel with the remote in her hand. Finally, he straddles her, penis close to her face. She tries to look around him at the TV, then takes notice.
EVELYN: Bateman unbuttons his shirt and makes advances to get Evelyn to have sex with him. She ignores him, watching the Home Shopping Channel with the remote in her hand. Finally, he straddles her, penis close to her face. She tries to look around him at the TV, then takes notice.
EVELYN: Bateman flops back down beside her and stares at the television.
EVELYN: EXT. STREET - LATER THAT NIGHT It is 3 a.m. Bateman is standing at an ATM, listening to the comforting sound of fresh bills thudding out of the machine. Bateman turns around and watches a solitary young woman walk past him. He collects his money, placing it carefully in his wallet, and then walks toward her, whistling. He catches up to her as she pauses at a red light.
BATEMAN: EXT. STREET - LATER THAT NIGHT It is 3 a.m. Bateman is standing at an ATM, listening to the comforting sound of fresh bills thudding out of the machine. Bateman turns around and watches a solitary young woman walk past him. He collects his money, placing it carefully in his wallet, and then walks toward her, whistling. He catches up to her as she pauses at a red light.
EVELYN: EXT. STREET - LATER THAT NIGHT It is 3 a.m. Bateman is standing at an ATM, listening to the comforting sound of fresh bills thudding out of the machine. Bateman turns around and watches a solitary young woman walk past him. He collects his money, placing it carefully in his wallet, and then walks toward her, whistling. He catches up to her as she pauses at a red light.
BATEMAN: EXT. STREET - LATER THAT NIGHT It is 3 a.m. Bateman is standing at an ATM, listening to the comforting sound of fresh bills thudding out of the machine. Bateman turns around and watches a solitary young woman walk past him. He collects his money, placing it carefully in his wallet, and then walks toward her, whistling. He catches up to her as she pauses at a red light.
BATEMAN: The woman looks suspicious for a moment and then, seeing his smile, smiles back.
BATEMAN: you're not giving me valid reasons. The woman continues to speak to him in another language, grabbing at the sleeve of the jacket.
BATEMAN: Her husband has taken Bateman's horribly bloodstained sheets out of the bag and is staring at them.
BATEMAN: Bleach-ee. Oh my God. She keeps pointing to the jacket and talking.
BATEMAN: Two things. One. You can't bleach a Soprani. Out of the question. ( Louder ) Two. I can only get these sheets in Santa Fe. These are very expensive sheets and I really need them clean. She keeps talking and Bateman leans into her.
BATEMAN: you, are you understanding me? She talks faster.
BATEMAN: ( Checks Rolex ) at Hubert's in thirty minutes, and I need those .no wait, twenty minutes. I have a lunch meeting at Hubert's in twenty minutes with Ronald Harrison and I need those sheets cleaned by this afternoon. She keeps talking. BATEMAN Listen. I cannot understand you. Bateman starts laughing, slaps his hand down on the Bateman is on the verge of tears.
BATEMAN: Bateman is on the verge of tears.
BATEMAN: Someone enters the store behind him. It's VICTORIA, late-twenties, attractive but a little overweight, wearing a tailored business suit with white sneakers and sports socks.
VICTORIA: She takes off her sunglasses.
VICTORIA: ( Mumbles un incomprehensible name ) Awkward pause.
BATEMAN: ( Mumbles un incomprehensible name ) Awkward pause.
BATEMAN: but you know. They really are the best.
VICTORIA: but you know. They really are the best.
BATEMAN: to these people or something? I'm not getting anywhere. Victoria moves toward the sheet that the old man is holding up. She touches it and the woman behind the counter begins talking ( Skeptically ) Really?
VICTORIA: ( Skeptically ) Really?
BATEMAN: ( Skeptically ) Really?
BATEMAN: know, like. like a Dove Bar. It's a Dove Bar.Hershey's Syrup?
VICTORIA: Fun with chocolate.
BATEMAN: ( He yanks the sheet out of the man's hand ) I would really appreciate it. I'm really late. I have a lunch appointment at Hubert's in fifteen minutes. Bateman turns to leave.
VICTORIA: you, uh. know, I'm downtown near Wall Street quite often.
BATEMAN: you, uh. know, I'm downtown near Wall Street quite often.
VICTORIA: know, I'm downtown near Wall Street quite often.
BATEMAN: Next Saturday?
VICTORIA: Next Saturday?
BATEMAN: Next Saturday?
VICTORIA: Listen, I've really got to go. I'll-Oh.Christ.I'll call Bateman glares at the woman behind the counter and rushes out the door. Victoria stares after him as we hear the sound of the bell on the closing door.
BATEMAN: Listen, I've really got to go. I'll-Oh.Christ.I'll call Bateman glares at the woman behind the counter and rushes out the door. Victoria stares after him as we hear the sound of the bell on the closing door.
VICTORIA: Bateman glares at the woman behind the counter and rushes out the door. Victoria stares after him as we hear the sound of the bell on the closing door.
BATEMAN: and we haven't made plans. What could you possibly be up to tonight. Oh don't be difficult, Patrick.
COURTNEY: and we haven't made plans. What could you possibly be up to tonight. Oh don't be difficult, Patrick.
BATEMAN: and we haven't made plans. What could you possibly be up to tonight. Oh don't be difficult, Patrick.
COURTNEY: tonight. Oh don't be difficult, Patrick.
BATEMAN: tonight. Oh don't be difficult, Patrick.
COURTNEY: tonight. Oh don't be difficult, Patrick.
BATEMAN: need to be home for that.
COURTNEY: need to be home for that.
BATEMAN: need to be home for that.
COURTNEY: need to be home for that.
BATEMAN: you blow off a fucking phone call from your sad excuse for a boyfriend to eat there tonight.
COURTNEY: you blow off a fucking phone call from your sad excuse for a boyfriend to eat there tonight.
BATEMAN: you blow off a fucking phone call from your sad excuse for a boyfriend to eat there tonight.
COURTNEY: you blow off a fucking phone call from your sad excuse for a boyfriend to eat there tonight.
BATEMAN: you blow off a fucking phone call from your sad excuse for a boyfriend to eat there tonight.
COURTNEY: you blow off a fucking phone call from your sad excuse for a boyfriend to eat there tonight.
BATEMAN: you blow off a fucking phone call from your sad excuse for a boyfriend to eat there tonight.
COURTNEY: you blow off a fucking phone call from your sad excuse for a boyfriend to eat there tonight.
BATEMAN: you blow off a fucking phone call from your sad excuse for a boyfriend to eat there tonight.
COURTNEY: you blow off a fucking phone call from your sad excuse for a boyfriend to eat there tonight.
BATEMAN: you blow off a fucking phone call from your sad excuse for a boyfriend to eat there tonight.
COURTNEY: you blow off a fucking phone call from your sad excuse for a boyfriend to eat there tonight.
BATEMAN: you blow off a fucking phone call from your sad excuse for a boyfriend to eat there tonight.
COURTNEY: you blow off a fucking phone call from your sad excuse for a boyfriend to eat there tonight.
BATEMAN: you blow off a fucking phone call from your sad excuse for a boyfriend to eat there tonight.
COURTNEY: something fabulous. Dorsia, remember? Bateman hangs up, opens up the Zagat's guide and dials the number for Dorsia with trembling fingers. It's busy and so he puts it on speakerphone, constant redial. He waits with his head in his hands, sweating with anxiety, until there is finally an answer.
BATEMAN: something fabulous. Dorsia, remember? Bateman hangs up, opens up the Zagat's guide and dials the number for Dorsia with trembling fingers. It's busy and so he puts it on speakerphone, constant redial. He waits with his head in his hands, sweating with anxiety, until there is finally an answer.
COURTNEY: something fabulous. Dorsia, remember? Bateman hangs up, opens up the Zagat's guide and dials the number for Dorsia with trembling fingers. It's busy and so he puts it on speakerphone, constant redial. He waits with his head in his hands, sweating with anxiety, until there is finally an answer.
BATEMAN: something fabulous. Dorsia, remember? Bateman hangs up, opens up the Zagat's guide and dials the number for Dorsia with trembling fingers. It's busy and so he puts it on speakerphone, constant redial. He waits with his head in his hands, sweating with anxiety, until there is finally an answer.
MAITRE D': He is on hold for a long time, getting very tense.
MAITRE D': Umm.yes.I know it's a little late but is it possible to reserve a table for two at eight or eight-thirty perhaps? Long pause. The Maitre D' starts giggling quietly and then more loudly until the laughter is almost hysterical and he hangs up the phone.
BATEMAN: Umm.yes.I know it's a little late but is it possible to reserve a table for two at eight or eight-thirty perhaps? Long pause. The Maitre D' starts giggling quietly and then more loudly until the laughter is almost hysterical and he hangs up the phone.
COURTNEY: relaxing, then to the Pottery Bam where I bought this silver muffin dish. ( She starts to pass out )
BATEMAN: Oh God, Patrick. Shut up.
COURTNEY: Oh God, Patrick. Shut up.
BATEMAN: lithium. Or have a Diet Coke. Some caffeine might get you out of this slump.
COURTNEY: ( Her voice trails as she descends back into a drug haze ) The cab draws up outside a restaurant. The awning reads INT. BARCADIA - NIGHT An insanely expensive nouvelle Italian restaurant all polished natural brick, spotless white tablecloths, minimalist flower arrangements, discreet lighting. A waiter has come to take their drink orders.
BATEMAN: a twist? She starts to sink back in her chair and Bateman leans over and pulls her back up.
COURTNEY: a twist? She starts to sink back in her chair and Bateman leans over and pulls her back up.
COURTNEY: Yes, dear. Courtney almost falls asleep while looking at her menu, and starts to slide off of her chair. Bateman grabs her by both shoulders and props her up.
BATEMAN: Yes, dear. Courtney almost falls asleep while looking at her menu, and starts to slide off of her chair. Bateman grabs her by both shoulders and props her up.
COURTNEY: Yes, dear. Courtney almost falls asleep while looking at her menu, and starts to slide off of her chair. Bateman grabs her by both shoulders and props her up.
BATEMAN: Yes, dear. Courtney almost falls asleep while looking at her menu, and starts to slide off of her chair. Bateman grabs her by both shoulders and props her up.
BATEMAN: soup with smoked duck and mashed squash. New York magazine called it a 'playful but mysterious little dish." You'll love it. And then.the red snapper with violets and pine nuts. I think that'll follow nicely.
COURTNEY: She falls asleep at the table.
COURTNEY: I want you to fuck me. Bateman gets on top of her, starts to fuck her.
COURTNEY: He keeps fucking her.
BATEMAN: He keeps fucking her.
COURTNEY: Not, is Luis a despicable twit. Is it a receptacle tip? Get off me.
BATEMAN: Pull out, goddamnit!
COURTNEY: Pull out, goddamnit!
BATEMAN: Pull out, goddamnit!
COURTNEY: Pull out, goddamnit!
BATEMAN: What do you want, Courtney? She pushes him away from her.
BATEMAN: She tries to sit up.
COURTNEY: She tries to sit up.
BATEMAN: He turns on the light.
COURTNEY: He turns on the light.
BATEMAN: ( She covers herself with her comforter ) to catch the force of the ejaculate!
COURTNEY: ( She covers herself with her comforter ) to catch the force of the ejaculate!
BATEMAN: ( She covers herself with her comforter ) to catch the force of the ejaculate!
COURTNEY: ( She covers herself with her comforter ) to catch the force of the ejaculate!
BATEMAN: Courtney throws a pillow over her head and starts crying.
COURTNEY: Do you think you're turning me on by having unsafe sex? Bateman pulls the pillow off her and slaps her face.
BATEMAN: Courtney, it's there for what? Huh? Tell us. ( He slaps her again lightly ) Why is it pulled down half an inch? So it can catch the force of the ejaculate!
COURTNEY: Well, it's not a turn-on for me. I have a promotion coming to me. I don't want to get AIDS. Bateman grabs her head and makes her look at the condom.
BATEMAN: He fucks her quickly until he has a mediocre orgasm and falls down next to her. They lie side by side with their bodies not touching, eyes open, staring at the INT. CONFERENCE ROOM, PIERCE & PIERCE - DAY Bateman and Luis Carruthers are seated at a long table in the conference room at Pierce & Pierce, which looks out onto a spectacular view of Manhattan.
COURTNEY: He fucks her quickly until he has a mediocre orgasm and falls down next to her. They lie side by side with their bodies not touching, eyes open, staring at the INT. CONFERENCE ROOM, PIERCE & PIERCE - DAY Bateman and Luis Carruthers are seated at a long table in the conference room at Pierce & Pierce, which looks out onto a spectacular view of Manhattan.
CARRUTHERS: Dorsia, how impressive! How on earth did you get a reservation there?
BATEMAN: Valentino Couture?
CARRUTHERS: Valentino Couture?
BATEMAN: It looks so soft.
CARRUTHERS: It looks so soft.
BATEMAN: Your compliment was sufficient Luis. Carruthers is distracted by a question from the colleague on his left.Paul Owen enters, carrying the Wall St. Journal under his arm. He is handsome, supremely confident and self-satisfied; he sees himself as a leader among men.
OWEN: Hello, Halberstam. Nice tie. How the hell are you?
BATEMAN: Their conversation fades down as we hear Bateman's BATEMAN ( V.O. ) It seems logical because Marcus also works at P&P and in fact does the same exact thing I do and he also has a penchant for Valentino suits and Oliver Peoples glasses. Marcus and I even go to the same barber, although I have a slightly better haircut. During this voiceover the CAMERA WANDERS over to MARCUS HALBERSTAM, who is conferring with a colleague in the opposite corner of the room. He bears a superficial resemblance to Bateman.
OWEN: It's.it's.all right.
BATEMAN: It's.it's.all right.
OWEN: ( He stares at Bateman, smiling ) Not great?
BATEMAN: McDermott and Price enter. Hey. Owen! Congratulations on the Fisher account.
OWEN: McDermott and Price enter. Hey. Owen! Congratulations on the Fisher account.
BATEMAN: McDermott and Price enter. Hey. Owen! Congratulations on the Fisher account.
OWEN: ( Hands him a business card )
PRICE: ( Hands him a business card )
OWEN: ( Hands him a business card )
PRICE: urchin ceviche. There is a stunned silence as he walks away and sits in a corner of the room, ostentatiously studying papers. CLOSE-UP on Bateman's face, cold with hatred.
OWEN: urchin ceviche. There is a stunned silence as he walks away and sits in a corner of the room, ostentatiously studying papers. CLOSE-UP on Bateman's face, cold with hatred.
PRICE: Jesus. Dorsia? On a Friday night? How'd he swing that? McDERMOTT ( Whispering ) I think he's lying. Bateman takes out his wallet and pulls out a card.
PRICE: What's that, a gram?
BATEMAN: McDermott lifts it up and examines the lettering carefully. Whoa. Very nice. Take a look. He hands it to Van Patten.
BATEMAN: VAN PATTEN Silian Rail. ( Envious ) Silian Rail?
VAN PATTEN: Silian Rail. ( Envious ) Silian Rail?
BATEMAN: Silian Rail. ( Envious ) Silian Rail?
VAN PATTEN: He pulls a card out of his wallet and slaps it on the VAN PATTEN They all lean forward to inspect it.
VAN PATTEN: They all lean forward to inspect it.
PRICE: Bateman clenches his fists beneath the table, trying to control his anxiety.
VAN PATTEN: ( Turning to Bateman ) What do you think?
BATEMAN: Jesus. This is really super. How'd a nitwit like you get so Bateman stares at his own card and then enviously at BATEMAN ( V.O. ) He holds up his own card.
PRICE: Jesus. This is really super. How'd a nitwit like you get so Bateman stares at his own card and then enviously at BATEMAN ( V.O. ) He holds up his own card.
PRICE: He holds up his own card.
PRICE: Impressive. Very nice. Let's see Paul Owen's card. Price pulls a card from an inside coat pocket and holds it up for their inspection: "PAUL OWEN, PIERCE & PIERCE, MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS." Bateman swallows, speechless. The sound in the room dies down and all we hear is a faint heartbeat as Bateman stares at the magnificent card.
BATEMAN: Impressive. Very nice. Let's see Paul Owen's card. Price pulls a card from an inside coat pocket and holds it up for their inspection: "PAUL OWEN, PIERCE & PIERCE, MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS." Bateman swallows, speechless. The sound in the room dies down and all we hear is a faint heartbeat as Bateman stares at the magnificent card.
BATEMAN: The Homeless Man stares at Bateman, struggling to sit up.
BATEMAN: The Homeless Man nods and starts to cry. Bateman reaches into his pocket and pulls out a $I 0 bill, then changes his mind and holds out a $5 instead.
BATEMAN: The Homeless Man nods, looks away, wipes his nose.
HOMELESS MAN: HOMELESS MAN Why don't you get a job? If you're so hungry, why don't you get a job?
BATEMAN: HOMELESS MAN Why don't you get a job? If you're so hungry, why don't you get a job?
HOMELESS MAN: Why don't you get a job? If you're so hungry, why don't you get a job?
BATEMAN: Why don't you get a job? If you're so hungry, why don't you get a job?
HOMELESS MAN: I lost my job.
BATEMAN: Insider trading? Just joking. No, really-were you drinking on the job? HOMELESS MAN I was fired. I was laid off.
BATEMAN: HOMELESS MAN The dog starts to whimper.
HOMELESS MAN: The dog starts to whimper.
BATEMAN: HOMELESS MAN HOMELESS MAN I'm trying to help you.
HOMELESS MAN: HOMELESS MAN I'm trying to help you.
BATEMAN: HOMELESS MAN I'm trying to help you.
HOMELESS MAN: I'm trying to help you.
BATEMAN: I'm trying to help you.
HOMELESS MAN: do have jobs? From people who do work?
BATEMAN: do have jobs? From people who do work?
HOMELESS MAN: HOMELESS MAN HOMELESS MAN That's what's stopping you. You've got to get your act together. I'll help you.
BATEMAN: HOMELESS MAN HOMELESS MAN That's what's stopping you. You've got to get your act together. I'll help you.
HOMELESS MAN: HOMELESS MAN That's what's stopping you. You've got to get your act together. I'll help you.
BATEMAN: HOMELESS MAN That's what's stopping you. You've got to get your act together. I'll help you.
HOMELESS MAN: That's what's stopping you. You've got to get your act together. I'll help you.
BATEMAN: That's what's stopping you. You've got to get your act together. I'll help you.
HOMELESS MAN: man. I can tell.
BATEMAN: Shhhh.it's okay.
HOMELESS MAN: Please.I don know what to do. I'm so cold.
BATEMAN: Do ,you know how bad you smell? The stench, my God.
HOMELESS MAN: ( Shouting ) Goddammit, Al-look at me and stop crying like some kind of faggot. Al.I'm sorry. Bateman carefully puts the money back in his wallet.
BATEMAN: ( Shouting ) Goddammit, Al-look at me and stop crying like some kind of faggot. Al.I'm sorry. Bateman carefully puts the money back in his wallet.
BATEMAN: with you. He opens his briefcase and pulls out a long thin knife with a serrated edge. He pushes up the sleeve of his jacket to protect it.
BATEMAN: HOMELESS MAN'S POV as Bateman lunges at him with the knife. EXTREME WIDE SHOT of the street. Bateman's shadowed figure is hunched over the Homeless Man, stabbing him in the stomach. The dog barks wildly and Bateman stomps on it until it is LOW ANGLE shot of Bateman as he throws a quarter on the ground.
BATEMAN: Bateman walks calmly into the empty caverns of Wall Street. Cars drift past, their headlights momentarily illuminating the body left twitching on the ground.
FACIALIST: fine, so smooth. His eyes open to look up at the facialist and then he closes them again.
BATEMAN: MAITRE D' Paul Owen is seated at a table underneath an enormous pair of ram's horns. He is arguing with the WAITER.
MAITRE D': Paul Owen is seated at a table underneath an enormous pair of ram's horns. He is arguing with the WAITER.
OWEN: crawfish gumbo, which is after all the only excuse one could have for being in this restaurant, which is by the way, almost completely empty. Am I to believe that all ten people in this restaurant have eaten your entire supply of cilantro crawfish gumbo?
WAITER: earlier today, and-
BATEMAN: The Waiter leaves.
WAITER: The Waiter leaves.
OWEN: The Waiter leaves.
WAITER: The Waiter leaves.
BATEMAN: The Waiter leaves.
OWEN: This place is hot, very hot.
BATEMAN: ( Studying the menu; he's in a surprisingly good mood ) Hmmm, I see they've omitted the pork loin with lime jello.
OWEN: ( Studying the menu; he's in a surprisingly good mood ) Hmmm, I see they've omitted the pork loin with lime jello.
BATEMAN: ( Studying the menu; he's in a surprisingly good mood ) Hmmm, I see they've omitted the pork loin with lime jello.
OWEN: There is a long disgruntled silence.
BATEMAN: There is a long disgruntled silence.
BATEMAN: Patrick I mean Marcus, what are you thinking? Why would Ivana be at Texarkana? Another pause.
BATEMAN: Fisher account? How did you get it?
OWEN: to kill you. He guffaws. Bateman laughs politely.
BATEMAN: Owen continues laughing and motions to the waiter for another BATEMAN Salon.
OWEN: BATEMAN Salon.
OWEN: Bateman nods, agitated.
OWEN: she's having dinner with.Evelyn Williams.
BATEMAN: she's having dinner with.Evelyn Williams.
OWEN: Bateman. What a dork.
BATEMAN: Owen nods drunkenly.
BATEMAN: Paul, give me your Amex card. Good boy. Bateman slaps the card down, looks at the check.
BATEMAN: a big tip, shall we? My place hr a nightcap?
OWEN: ( Helping him into his jacket ) I've got a preview of the Barneys catalogue and a bottle of Absolut waiting for us.
BATEMAN: ( Helping him into his jacket ) I've got a preview of the Barneys catalogue and a bottle of Absolut waiting for us.
BATEMAN: taste. But then Sports came out in 1983, I think they really came into their own, commercially and artistically. Bateman walks to his bathroom, taking a large ax out of the shower. He takes two Valium.
OWEN: taste. But then Sports came out in 1983, I think they really came into their own, commercially and artistically. Bateman walks to his bathroom, taking a large ax out of the shower. He takes two Valium.
BATEMAN: taste. But then Sports came out in 1983, I think they really came into their own, commercially and artistically. Bateman walks to his bathroom, taking a large ax out of the shower. He takes two Valium.
BATEMAN: The whole album has a clear, crisp sound and a new sheen of consummate professionalism that gives the songs a big boost. Bateman comes back out and leans the ax against the wall. He walks to the foyer and puts on a raincoat, watching Owen from behind ail the time.
BATEMAN: Huey has a more bitter, cynical sense of humor. Owen is absent-mindedly leafing through the Barneys the place? Do you have a dog? A chow or something?
OWEN: the place? Do you have a dog? A chow or something?
BATEMAN: the place? Do you have a dog? A chow or something?
OWEN: the place? Do you have a dog? A chow or something?
BATEMAN: Is that a raincoat?
OWEN: Is that a raincoat?
BATEMAN: Bateman moves to the CD player. He takes a CD out of its case and slides it in the machine.
BATEMAN: accomplished album. I think I heir undisputed masterpiece is "HiP To Be Square," a song so catchy that most people probably don't listen to the lyrics. But they should because it's not just about the pleasures of conformity and the importance of trends. It's al~ a personal statement about the band itself. Bateman puts on "Hip To Be Square." BATEMAN crosses the room and picks up the ax. We follow BATEMAN from behind as he walks up to Owen, the ax raised over his head.
BATEMAN: As Owen turns around, FROM OWEN'S POV we see Bateman swing the ax toward his face. Blood sprays onto the white raincoat. FROM BEHIND OWEN, we see BATEMAN as he yanks the ax out. Owen drops to the floor. His body falls out of the frame. We stay on his legs twitching mechanically. Blood pulses onto the newspaper-covered floor.
BATEMAN: Try getting a reservation at Dorsia now, you fucking stupid bastard! LOW ANGLE ON BATEMAN as he beats Owen with the back of the OFFSCREEN, the sound of the ax hitting Owen.
BATEMAN: Fucking bastard. Bateman takes his raincoat off, still panting. He folds the coat carefully in half, bloody side in, and drapes it neatly over the back of a chair. He sits back on the white sofa and surveys the scene. He checks his Rolex and lights a cigar. OFFSCREEN, Paul Owen's last faint sighs are heard.
CARRUTHERS: friend Patrick Bateman. Where are you going? We're going to Nell's. Gwendolyn's father's buying it. ( Looking down at the body ) Where did you get your overnight bag?
BATEMAN: friend Patrick Bateman. Where are you going? We're going to Nell's. Gwendolyn's father's buying it. ( Looking down at the body ) Where did you get your overnight bag?
CARRUTHERS: friend Patrick Bateman. Where are you going? We're going to Nell's. Gwendolyn's father's buying it. ( Looking down at the body ) Where did you get your overnight bag?
BATEMAN: A cab stops. BATEMAN opens the door and manages to get Owen's body into the backseat. Bateman gets into the cab.
CARRUTHERS: INT. BATEMAN'S HELL'S KITCHEN APARTMENT - NIGHT A bare room, lit by one light bulb. The walls are blank except for a Les Miserables poster. There is one ratty chair. Bateman pours lime over Paul Owen's body, which is lying in a bathtub. He plays Huey Lewis, smokes a cigar, watches the body dissolve.
BATEMAN: INT. BATEMAN'S HELL'S KITCHEN APARTMENT - NIGHT A bare room, lit by one light bulb. The walls are blank except for a Les Miserables poster. There is one ratty chair. Bateman pours lime over Paul Owen's body, which is lying in a bathtub. He plays Huey Lewis, smokes a cigar, watches the body dissolve.
BATEMAN: He throws some clothes into a suitcase, randomly grabbing toiletries and shoving them in.
BATEMAN: He puts some music on to help muffle his voice, then leans over the answering machine. He does a passable imitation of Owen's speech.
BATEMAN: for a few days. Meredith, I'll call you when I get back. Hasta la vista, baby.
BATEMAN: What is it?
JEAN: Ye-es, Je-an?
BATEMAN: Ye-es, Je-an?
JEAN: Silence. Bateman stares out the window, then down at the drawing of a headless woman he's been doodling on the back cover of Sports Illustrated.
BATEMAN: Silence. Bateman stares out the window, then down at the drawing of a headless woman he's been doodling on the back cover of Sports Illustrated.
JEAN: Silence. Bateman stares out the window, then down at the drawing of a headless woman he's been doodling on the back cover of Sports Illustrated.
BATEMAN: Patrick, I think he knows you're here. It's only ten-thirty. phone and pretends to talk to someone at the other end.
JEAN: Patrick, I think he knows you're here. It's only ten-thirty. phone and pretends to talk to someone at the other end.
BATEMAN: phone and pretends to talk to someone at the other end.
BATEMAN: to your physique. There are definite do's and don'ts, good buddy, of wearing a bold-striped shirt. A hold-striped shirt calls for solid-colored or discreetly patterned suits and ties. The door to the office opens and he waves in DETECTIVE DONALD KIMBALL. KIMBALL is surprisingly young - about Bateman's age - and good-looking, dressed in a crumpled linen Armani suit of the type Bateman and his friends might wear. Kimball sits down and crosses his legs with a self-assurance that makes Bateman so nervous he forgets to carry on with his fake conversation. Kimball looks up at him curiously, noticing the silence.
BATEMAN: Right. And yes.always tip the stylist fifteen percent. Bateman shrugs at the detective, rolling his eyes in KIMBALL nods understandingly.
BATEMAN: walked in. ( He laughs inanely ) Just joking. ( Pause ) No don't tip the owner of the salon. Okay, John, right, got it. ( He hangs up the phone and pushes the antenna in ) Sorry about that.
KIMBALL: ( Gesturing toward the phone ) Was that anything important?
BATEMAN: Examining opportunities.Exchanging rumors. Spreading gossip. They laugh politely.
KIMBALL: Hi. I'm Donald KIMBALL
BATEMAN: Hi. Pat Bateman. Nice to meet you.
KIMBALL: to talk to Luis Carruthers and he wasn't in and.well, you're here, so.I know how busy you guys can get. KIMBALL stares at the three open copies of Sports Illustrated and the Sony Walkman lying on Bateman's desk. Bateman sees the look and sweeps the magazines into the top drawer along with the Walkman, which is still running.
BATEMAN: So, what's the topic of discussion?
KIMBALL: the disappearance of Paul Owen.
BATEMAN: basic questions. About Paul Owen. About yourself-
KIMBALL: basic questions. About Paul Owen. About yourself-
BATEMAN: basic questions. About Paul Owen. About yourself-
KIMBALL: basic questions. About Paul Owen. About yourself-
BATEMAN: KIMBALL takes out a small black notepad and the same gold Cross pen that Bateman and his friends all use. Bateman buzzes JEAN ( O.S. ) Bateman watches intently as KIMBALL writes something down in his notebook, then crosses something out. Jean enters and places the bottle of San Pellegrino and a Steuben etched glass on the table, shooting a concerned glance at Bateman. He glares at her. KIMBALL smiles and nods at Jean as she leaves.
KIMBALL: KIMBALL takes out a small black notepad and the same gold Cross pen that Bateman and his friends all use. Bateman buzzes JEAN ( O.S. ) Bateman watches intently as KIMBALL writes something down in his notebook, then crosses something out. Jean enters and places the bottle of San Pellegrino and a Steuben etched glass on the table, shooting a concerned glance at Bateman. He glares at her. KIMBALL smiles and nods at Jean as she leaves.
BATEMAN: KIMBALL takes out a small black notepad and the same gold Cross pen that Bateman and his friends all use. Bateman buzzes JEAN ( O.S. ) Bateman watches intently as KIMBALL writes something down in his notebook, then crosses something out. Jean enters and places the bottle of San Pellegrino and a Steuben etched glass on the table, shooting a concerned glance at Bateman. He glares at her. KIMBALL smiles and nods at Jean as she leaves.
KIMBALL: KIMBALL takes out a small black notepad and the same gold Cross pen that Bateman and his friends all use. Bateman buzzes JEAN ( O.S. ) Bateman watches intently as KIMBALL writes something down in his notebook, then crosses something out. Jean enters and places the bottle of San Pellegrino and a Steuben etched glass on the table, shooting a concerned glance at Bateman. He glares at her. KIMBALL smiles and nods at Jean as she leaves.
BATEMAN: Bateman watches intently as KIMBALL writes something down in his notebook, then crosses something out. Jean enters and places the bottle of San Pellegrino and a Steuben etched glass on the table, shooting a concerned glance at Bateman. He glares at her. KIMBALL smiles and nods at Jean as she leaves.
KIMBALL: Bateman watches intently as KIMBALL writes something down in his notebook, then crosses something out. Jean enters and places the bottle of San Pellegrino and a Steuben etched glass on the table, shooting a concerned glance at Bateman. He glares at her. KIMBALL smiles and nods at Jean as she leaves.
BATEMAN: Bateman watches intently as KIMBALL writes something down in his notebook, then crosses something out. Jean enters and places the bottle of San Pellegrino and a Steuben etched glass on the table, shooting a concerned glance at Bateman. He glares at her. KIMBALL smiles and nods at Jean as she leaves.
KIMBALL: Bateman watches intently as KIMBALL writes something down in his notebook, then crosses something out. Jean enters and places the bottle of San Pellegrino and a Steuben etched glass on the table, shooting a concerned glance at Bateman. He glares at her. KIMBALL smiles and nods at Jean as she leaves.
BATEMAN: Bateman watches intently as KIMBALL writes something down in his notebook, then crosses something out. Jean enters and places the bottle of San Pellegrino and a Steuben etched glass on the table, shooting a concerned glance at Bateman. He glares at her. KIMBALL smiles and nods at Jean as she leaves.
BATEMAN: disappearance or anything. ( Trying to laugh ) Not on "Page Six" at least.
KIMBALL: disappearance or anything. ( Trying to laugh ) Not on "Page Six" at least.
BATEMAN: disappearance or anything. ( Trying to laugh ) Not on "Page Six" at least.
KIMBALL: ( Staring at the untouched bottle of San Pellegrino ) A pause.
BATEMAN: ( Staring at the untouched bottle of San Pellegrino ) A pause.
KIMBALL: A pause.
BATEMAN: A pause.
KIMBALL: files, okay?
BATEMAN: Where did you go to school?
KIMBALL: Where did you go to school?
BATEMAN: Where did you go to school?
KIMBALL: Where did you go to school?
BATEMAN: Gardens Building.
KIMBALL: Gardens Building.
BATEMAN: Gardens Building.
KIMBALL: Nice. Very nice.
BATEMAN: A pause as KIMBALL studies his notebook. Bateman closes his eyes, as if in pain.
KIMBALL: Bateman reaches into his desk drawer and brings out a bottle of aspirin.
BATEMAN: Bateman reaches into his desk drawer and brings out a bottle of aspirin.
KIMBALL: Bateman reaches into his desk drawer and brings out a bottle of aspirin.
BATEMAN: KIMBALL Uh.no, thanks. Kimball takes out a pack of Marlboro's and lays it on the A pause, as Bateman stares at the cigarettes.
BATEMAN: A pause, as Bateman stares at the cigarettes.
KIMBALL: A pause, as Bateman stares at the cigarettes.
KIMBALL: ( Buzzing Jean )
BATEMAN: ( Buzzing Jean )
KIMBALL: ( Buzzing Jean )
BATEMAN: ( Buzzing Jean )
BATEMAN: She whisks in with a crystal ashtray as they sit in silence.
KIMBALL: He coughs, shakes two Nuprin into his hand and swallows them dry.
BATEMAN: He coughs, shakes two Nuprin into his hand and swallows them dry.
KIMBALL: you know.
BATEMAN: you know.
KIMBALL: A pause.
BATEMAN: A pause.
KIMBALL: A pause.
BATEMAN: homosexual. Who did a lot of cocaine.that Yale thing. A silence during which the sound of the air conditioner becomes deafening.
KIMBALL: ate a balanced diet.
BATEMAN: ate a balanced diet.
KIMBALL: ( He hesitates tries to smile ) the information you've just given.
BATEMAN: Where did Paul hang out?
KIMBALL: Where did Paul hang out?
BATEMAN: Where did Paul hang out?
KIMBALL: Where did Paul hang out?
BATEMAN: Nell's. Comell Club. The New York Yacht Club. The regular A slight pause.
KIMBALL: Nell's. Comell Club. The New York Yacht Club. The regular A slight pause.
BATEMAN: Nell's. Comell Club. The New York Yacht Club. The regular A slight pause.
KIMBALL: A slight pause.
BATEMAN: A slight pause.
KIMBALL: A slight pause.
BATEMAN: Listen, I just.I just want to help.
KIMBALL: Listen, I just.I just want to help.
BATEMAN: Listen, I just.I just want to help.
KIMBALL: He makes another note.
KIMBALL: So was I.
BATEMAN: So was I.
KIMBALL: So was I.
BATEMAN: went to London.
KIMBALL: went to London.
BATEMAN: A Stephen Hughes says he saw him at a restaurant there, but I checked it out and what happened is, he mistook a Hubert Ainsworth for Paul, so.
KIMBALL: A Stephen Hughes says he saw him at a restaurant there, but I checked it out and what happened is, he mistook a Hubert Ainsworth for Paul, so.
BATEMAN: A Stephen Hughes says he saw him at a restaurant there, but I checked it out and what happened is, he mistook a Hubert Ainsworth for Paul, so.
KIMBALL: A Stephen Hughes says he saw him at a restaurant there, but I checked it out and what happened is, he mistook a Hubert Ainsworth for Paul, so.
BATEMAN: A Stephen Hughes says he saw him at a restaurant there, but I checked it out and what happened is, he mistook a Hubert Ainsworth for Paul, so.
KIMBALL: A Stephen Hughes says he saw him at a restaurant there, but I checked it out and what happened is, he mistook a Hubert Ainsworth for Paul, so.
BATEMAN: know this sounds like a lame question, but last month-I don't know if you've heard about this, but a young stockbroker was recently arrested and charged with murdering a young Chicano girl and performing voodoo rituals with various body parts-
KIMBALL: know this sounds like a lame question, but last month-I don't know if you've heard about this, but a young stockbroker was recently arrested and charged with murdering a young Chicano girl and performing voodoo rituals with various body parts-
BATEMAN: know this sounds like a lame question, but last month-I don't know if you've heard about this, but a young stockbroker was recently arrested and charged with murdering a young Chicano girl and performing voodoo rituals with various body parts-
KIMBALL: know this sounds like a lame question, but last month-I don't know if you've heard about this, but a young stockbroker was recently arrested and charged with murdering a young Chicano girl and performing voodoo rituals with various body parts-
BATEMAN: diet and-
KIMBALL: A pause - the longest so far.
BATEMAN: suit was gone. So was some luggage. That's it.
KIMBALL: suit was gone. So was some luggage. That's it.
BATEMAN: suit was gone. So was some luggage. That's it.
KIMBALL: suit was gone. So was some luggage. That's it.
BATEMAN: or anything, right?
KIMBALL: basically no one has seen or heard anything.
BATEMAN: ( He stares out the window, lost in thought ) One day someone's walking around, going to work, alive, and then.
KIMBALL: ( He stares out the window, lost in thought ) One day someone's walking around, going to work, alive, and then.
BATEMAN: ( He checks his Rolex )
KIMBALL: ( He checks his Rolex )
BATEMAN: ( He checks his Rolex )
KIMBALL: You'll have to excuse me. I have a lunch meeting with Cliff Huxtable at Four Seasons in twenty minutes.
BATEMAN: You'll have to excuse me. I have a lunch meeting with Cliff Huxtable at Four Seasons in twenty minutes.
KIMBALL: mean aren't you going to be late?
BATEMAN: Bateman leads him to the door.
KIMBALL: Bateman leads him to the door.
BATEMAN: KIMBALL turns to face him.
KIMBALL: at all.
BATEMAN: Bateman closes the door firmly on KIMBALL. He closes his eyes and leans against the door, sweating.
KIMBALL: Bateman closes the door firmly on KIMBALL. He closes his eyes and leans against the door, sweating.
BATEMAN: The person on the other end clearly hangs up. CLOSE-UP on his fingers dialing the phone.
BATEMAN: boxer shorts by Ralph Lauren, a hundred-and-fifty-dollar white cotton T-shirt by Commes des Garcons. ( He snorts like a pig ) My Rolex cost- Another hang-up. He dials again.
BATEMAN: I'm a corporate raider. I orchestrate hostile takeovers. What do you think of that? ( Makes disgusting sucking noises and grunts ) Huh, bitch?
BATEMAN: Bateman flips on the light inside the limo. He's wearing a I'm not supposed to. Bateman is holding out a $100 bill, which Christie now notices, then takes.
CHRISTIE: Bateman flips on the light inside the limo. He's wearing a I'm not supposed to. Bateman is holding out a $100 bill, which Christie now notices, then takes.
BATEMAN: Bateman flips on the light inside the limo. He's wearing a I'm not supposed to. Bateman is holding out a $100 bill, which Christie now notices, then takes.
CHRISTIE: I'm not supposed to. Bateman is holding out a $100 bill, which Christie now notices, then takes.
BATEMAN: ( She pockets the bill ) But I can make an exception.
CHRISTIE: ( She pockets the bill ) But I can make an exception.
BATEMAN: Christie is still looking out behind her.
BATEMAN: Christie looks at him like he's crazy.
BATEMAN: As they drive uptown, Bateman dials the cell-phone. He reads off a credit card number.
BATEMAN: couples. Couples. Fifty-five West Eighty-First, the American Gardens Building. Apartment 7C. And I really can't stress blonde enough. Blonde. He hangs up. BATEMAN I'm Paul. My name is Paul 0wen, have you'got that? You are Christie. You are to respond only to Christie. Is that clear?
BATEMAN: Long pause, in which Christie is luxuriating in the tub and Bateman is casually touching her breast.
BATEMAN: Christie reaches for a washcloth.
BATEMAN: Christie shrugs.
BATEMAN: The doorman RINGS. Bateman answers.
BATEMAN: off, choose a robe-not the Bijan and come and meet me and our guest in the living room for drinks. Bateman answers the door.
BATEMAN: I'm Paul. How good of you to come. The escort girl looks somewhat bewildered. Bateman takes her coat and inspects her body and face.
BATEMAN: going to call you Sabrina. I'm Paul Owen. Bateman escorts her into the living room and brings her a glass of wine. Christie enters, sitting next to Sabrina on the couch, and Bateman sits across from them. There is a long silence.
BATEMAN: The two girls look at each other with uncomfortable smiles. Christie shrugs.
CHRISTIE: No, not really. Bateman is visibly irritated, recrosses his legs.
SABRINA: No, not really. Bateman is visibly irritated, recrosses his legs.
BATEMAN: ( Long pause ) Have you heard of it? Another long pause. They shake their heads. Christie stands up and goes over to the CD collection.
CHRISTIE: How much did you pay for it?
BATEMAN: hut I can assure you it certainly wasn't cheap. Bateman leaves to refill his wine glass and Sabrina takes a pack of cigarettes out of her purse. Bateman returns, carrying a tray of chocolates.
BATEMAN: He walks over to Christie.
BATEMAN: Christie stares at the plate and shakes her head. Sabrina takes one.
BATEMAN: fine Chardonnay you're not drinking. Bateman goes over to his CDs and scans his vast collection. He takes one out and examines it.
BATEMAN: fan ever since the release of their 1980 album, Duke. Before that I really didn't understand any of their work. It was too artsy, too intellectual. It was on Duke where Phil Collins' presence became more apparent. He puts aside the CD and takes out another one.
BATEMAN: He puts on the song and gestures for them to follow him into the bedroom.
BATEMAN: same time it deepens and enriches the meaning of the preceding three albums. Christie, take off the robe. Bateman puts out a lace teddy. He motions to Christie to put it on.
BATEMAN: Collins and Rutherford. You can practically hear every nuance of every instrument. Sabrina, remove your dress. Bateman starts to undress.
BATEMAN: songwriting, this album hits a new peak of professionalism. Sabrina, why don't you dance a little? Sabrina dances awkwardly. Christie sits on the bed.
BATEMAN: song, Phil Collins addresses the problem of abusive political Bateman knots a silk scarf around Christie's neck - rather menacingly - then helps her into some suede gloves.
BATEMAN: monogamy and commitment. The song is extremely uplifting. Their lyrics are as positive and affirmative as anything I've heard in rock. He turns on the video camera.
BATEMAN: Bateman looks through the viewfinder.
BATEMAN: therefore more satisfying in a narrower way, especially songs like "In the Air Tonight" and "Against All Odds." Sabrina, don't just stare at it. Eat it. He walks over to the sound system in his bedroom and slides in the CD.
BATEMAN: within the confines of the group than as a solo artist-and I stress the word artist. This is "Sussudio," a great, great song, a personal favorite. SEX MONTAGE CUT TO "Sussudio." We see this in WIDE SHOT, or through the LENS OF THE VIDEO CAMERA.
BATEMAN: Bateman gets up from his bed and goes over to his armoire. He opens the drawer in which are a nail gun, a coat hanger, a rusty butter knife and a half-smoked cigar. He turns around to see Christie and Sabrina both starting to get up and get dressed. He takes the coat hanger.
BATEMAN: CUT TO: Bateman ushering them out the door impatiently. They are both sobbing, badly bruised and bleeding. Bateman has a deep scratch on his hand and one on his shoulder. In the b.g. Phil Collins' "In the Air Tonight" is playing.
BATEMAN: Why is Laurie Kennedy dating Price? He's a fucking drug addict. No self-control.
VAN PATTEN: you think, Bateman?
BATEMAN: Why do you say it like that? Why does he say it like that?
VAN PATTEN: VAN PATTEN So what? It's all looks. Laurie Kennedy is a babe. Don't even pretend you were interested for any other VAN PATTEN is very wrong. If they have a good personality and they are not great looking-who fucking cares?
BATEMAN: VAN PATTEN So what? It's all looks. Laurie Kennedy is a babe. Don't even pretend you were interested for any other VAN PATTEN is very wrong. If they have a good personality and they are not great looking-who fucking cares?
VAN PATTEN: So what? It's all looks. Laurie Kennedy is a babe. Don't even pretend you were interested for any other VAN PATTEN is very wrong. If they have a good personality and they are not great looking-who fucking cares?
BATEMAN: So what? It's all looks. Laurie Kennedy is a babe. Don't even pretend you were interested for any other VAN PATTEN is very wrong. If they have a good personality and they are not great looking-who fucking cares?
VAN PATTEN: is very wrong. If they have a good personality and they are not great looking-who fucking cares?
BATEMAN: they have a good personality? ( He smiles giving up ) I know, I know-
VAN PATTEN: little hardbody who will satisfy all sexual demands without being too slutty about things and who will essentially keep her dumb fucking mouth Listen, the only girls with good personalities who are smart or maybe funny or halfway intelligent or even talented-though God knows what the fuck that means-are ugly VAN PATTEN And this is because they have to make up for how fucking unattractive they are. VAN PATTEN an interesting guy. So what did Ed say?
VAN PATTEN: And this is because they have to make up for how fucking unattractive they are. VAN PATTEN an interesting guy. So what did Ed say?
BATEMAN: VAN PATTEN an interesting guy. So what did Ed say?
VAN PATTEN: an interesting guy. So what did Ed say?
BATEMAN: an interesting guy. So what did Ed say?
BATEMAN: street I think two things. One part of me wants to take her out and talk to her and be real nice and sweet and treat her right." Pauses, finishes his drink. What does the other part of him think?
BATEMAN: McDermott and Van Patten look at each other and then back at Bateman. Bateman starts to laugh, and the other two uneasily join In. Luis Carruthers walks up to the table.
CARRUTHERS: Hi, guys. I wanna get your opinion on something. McDermott rolls his eyes at the rest of the table. McDERMOTT If it's about the bow-tie you're wearing, you know how we feel about it. Luis laughs good-naturedly.
CARRUTHERS: get a new one too. He pulls out something incredibly tasteful. Everyone compliments Luis except Bateman. The SOUND DROPS and all we hear is the beating of his heart as he stares at the card enviously. Luis plucks it from his hand and walks away, pleased with VAN PATTEN Is that all you ever have to contribute, Van Patten? "What about fucking dinner?" Ah, cheer up, Bateman. ( Slaps him on the back, massages his neck ) What's the matter? No shiatsu this morning?
VAN PATTEN: Is that all you ever have to contribute, Van Patten? "What about fucking dinner?" Ah, cheer up, Bateman. ( Slaps him on the back, massages his neck ) What's the matter? No shiatsu this morning?
BATEMAN: Is that all you ever have to contribute, Van Patten? "What about fucking dinner?" Ah, cheer up, Bateman. ( Slaps him on the back, massages his neck ) What's the matter? No shiatsu this morning?
BATEMAN: Keep touching me like that and you'll draw back a stump. Whoa, hold on there, little buddy.
BATEMAN: He gets up from the table. As Bateman walks away, Van Patten grabs a waiter.
VAN PATTEN: me an Evian or something, okay?
CARRUTHERS: He strokes Bateman's hair.
CARRUTHERS: Carruthers tries to kiss him on the lips but Bateman backs away. He drops his hands from Carruthers' neck. Carruthers immediately takes them and places them back. Bateman drops them again.
CARRUTHERS: Bateman takes a deep breath, closes his eyes and tries to lift his hands again, but abandons the attempt.
CARRUTHERS: party at Arizona 206. You know the one, you were wearing that red-striped paisley Armani tie. Bateman looks down and sees that Carruthers' pants are still unzipped. He moves past him out of the stall and stands by the sink and pretends to wash his hands until he realizes he still has his gloves on. Carruthers comes up behind him.
CARRUTHERS: Bateman storms out of the men's room, bumping into a waiter and several customers and cursing. Noticing the maitre d' and another waiter conferring and looking at him strangely, Bateman straightens up and smiles and waves cheerfully at them. Carruthers walks up behind him.
BATEMAN: I've gotta.I've gotta.return some videotapes.
CARRUTHERS: I've gotta.I've gotta.return some videotapes.
BATEMAN: I've gotta.I've gotta.return some videotapes.
CARRUTHERS: I'll call you. Bateman storms out of the restaurant.
BATEMAN: I'll call you. Bateman storms out of the restaurant.
CARRUTHERS: I'll call you. Bateman storms out of the restaurant.
COURTNEY: Courtney sighs and reaches for a bottle of pills on her nightstand, swallowing several. Bateman gets up and begins to dress, admiring himself in the mirror. Courtney watches the TV at low volume.
BATEMAN: Courtney sighs and reaches for a bottle of pills on her nightstand, swallowing several. Bateman gets up and begins to dress, admiring himself in the mirror. Courtney watches the TV at low volume.
COURTNEY: We were supposed to have dinner at Tad and Maura's, but-you know how Luis is.
BATEMAN: We were supposed to have dinner at Tad and Maura's, but-you know how Luis is.
COURTNEY: We were supposed to have dinner at Tad and Maura's, but-you know how Luis is.
BATEMAN: We were supposed to have dinner at Tad and Maura's, but-you know how Luis is.
COURTNEY: We were supposed to have dinner at Tad and Maura's, but-you know how Luis is.
BATEMAN: You never noticed. Bateman is making final adjustments to his tie.
COURTNEY: You never noticed. Bateman is making final adjustments to his tie.
COURTNEY: going to marry Luis. Next week, no Less.
BATEMAN: going to marry Luis. Next week, no Less.
COURTNEY: Isn't that special? ( A pause ) You too. Courtney picks up the black cat and starts petting its head. Bateman heads down the hallway to the front door.
BATEMAN: You too. Courtney picks up the black cat and starts petting its head. Bateman heads down the hallway to the front door.
C0URTNEY: You too. Courtney picks up the black cat and starts petting its head. Bateman heads down the hallway to the front door.
BATEMAN: You too. Courtney picks up the black cat and starts petting its head. Bateman heads down the hallway to the front door.
COURTNEY: INT. NIGHTCLUB - NIGHT A big eighties nightclub with a mixed crowd: hip-hop kids, visitors from Jersey, downtown art people, yuppies. I Bateman makes his way through the crowd to the bar, and tries to attract the bartender's attention. He is wearing a suit and his tie is loosened. Kimball approaches him.
BATEMAN: INT. NIGHTCLUB - NIGHT A big eighties nightclub with a mixed crowd: hip-hop kids, visitors from Jersey, downtown art people, yuppies. I Bateman makes his way through the crowd to the bar, and tries to attract the bartender's attention. He is wearing a suit and his tie is loosened. Kimball approaches him.
COURTNEY: INT. NIGHTCLUB - NIGHT A big eighties nightclub with a mixed crowd: hip-hop kids, visitors from Jersey, downtown art people, yuppies. I Bateman makes his way through the crowd to the bar, and tries to attract the bartender's attention. He is wearing a suit and his tie is loosened. Kimball approaches him.
KIMBALL: Bateman gasps and recovers.
BATEMAN: ( Extending his hand ) Call me Don.
KIMBALL: ( Extending his hand ) Call me Don.
BATEMAN: in for "formal questioning?" ( He makes quotation marks in the air and laughs a not-so-relaxed laugh )
KIMBALL: in for "formal questioning?" ( He makes quotation marks in the air and laughs a not-so-relaxed laugh )
BATEMAN: in for "formal questioning?" ( He makes quotation marks in the air and laughs a not-so-relaxed laugh )
BATEMAN: in for "formal questioning?" ( He makes quotation marks in the air and laughs a not-so-relaxed laugh )
KIMBALL: Too true. You know, Bateman-people tend to reveal so much more about themselves when they're in a relaxed setting, don't you think? Bateman is nodding nervously, idiotically.
BATEMAN: Too true. You know, Bateman-people tend to reveal so much more about themselves when they're in a relaxed setting, don't you think? Bateman is nodding nervously, idiotically.
KIMBALL: Too true. You know, Bateman-people tend to reveal so much more about themselves when they're in a relaxed setting, don't you think? Bateman is nodding nervously, idiotically.
KIMBALL: Bateman shakes his head.
KIMBALL: anything at all, I'm your man. I don't envy your job. I mean Owen was a.complex man. Bateman wanders away. He looks back uneasily at KIMBALL, who is watching him from the bar. A GUY WITH DREADLOCKS walks by.
BATEMAN: anything at all, I'm your man. I don't envy your job. I mean Owen was a.complex man. Bateman wanders away. He looks back uneasily at KIMBALL, who is watching him from the bar. A GUY WITH DREADLOCKS walks by.
BATEMAN: The man stares at him.
BATEMAN: The man walks by, shaking his head. Bateman wanders into the next room, which is filled with a more familiar crowd: young men in designer suits, girls in black designer dresses. Across the room he spots McDermott and Price sitting with three models, all wearing black mini-dresses. Price and McDermott are having a whispered Someone has to get the Bolivian marching powder. You went last time. Stay here. McDermott waves gaily to the girls and disappears. Bateman looks at the models. DAISY and CARON are staring into space, smoking. LIBBY is trying to work out how to unfold her napkin. Price signals to Bateman for help.
PRICE: Someone has to get the Bolivian marching powder. You went last time. Stay here. McDermott waves gaily to the girls and disappears. Bateman looks at the models. DAISY and CARON are staring into space, smoking. LIBBY is trying to work out how to unfold her napkin. Price signals to Bateman for help.
PRICE: Let's have a conversation. So.it was hot out today, no? sign a peace treaty with him between the United States and Russia. McDermott's the one behind glasnost, you know.
LIBBY: sign a peace treaty with him between the United States and Russia. McDermott's the one behind glasnost, you know.
PRICE: sign a peace treaty with him between the United States and Russia. McDermott's the one behind glasnost, you know.
LIBBY: Are you Iying?
PRICE: Are you Iying?
LIBBY: Are you Iying?
CARON: Are you Iying?
DAISY: Are you Iying?
PRICE: at Tunnel.
BATEMAN: Ask me a question.
DAISY: DAISY ( Unfazed ) Do you like it?
BATEMAN: DAISY ( Unfazed ) Do you like it?
DAISY: DAISY ( Unfazed ) Do you like it?
BATEMAN: DAISY ( Unfazed ) Do you like it?
DAISY: DAISY ( Unfazed ) Do you like it?
BATEMAN: DAISY ( Unfazed ) Do you like it?
BATEMAN: acquisitions don't really like it. MUCH LATER IN THE EVENING: The club is half-empty now. Price is leaning over a balcony, messed-up on drugs. Bateman comes up behind him in a menacing way that suggests he might push him over the railing. Price turns around, wild-eyed, just as Bateman is reaching for him.
DAISY: acquisitions don't really like it. MUCH LATER IN THE EVENING: The club is half-empty now. Price is leaning over a balcony, messed-up on drugs. Bateman comes up behind him in a menacing way that suggests he might push him over the railing. Price turns around, wild-eyed, just as Bateman is reaching for him.
BATEMAN: MUCH LATER IN THE EVENING: The club is half-empty now. Price is leaning over a balcony, messed-up on drugs. Bateman comes up behind him in a menacing way that suggests he might push him over the railing. Price turns around, wild-eyed, just as Bateman is reaching for him.
PRICE: I'm leaving. I'm getting out.
BATEMAN: Bateman is confused, he thinks Price is referring to his Listen to me, Patrick. I'm leaving.
PRICE: Bateman is confused, he thinks Price is referring to his Listen to me, Patrick. I'm leaving.
BATEMAN: Listen to me, Patrick. I'm leaving.
PRICE: Listen to me, Patrick. I'm leaving.
BATEMAN: Where to? Morgan Stanley? Rehab? What? Price looks away. McDermott and Daisy walk up to them. Hey-don't worry, be happy. Price lifts his arms up as if greeting the crowd and is shouting something that can't be heard, then
PRICE: Where to? Morgan Stanley? Rehab? What? Price looks away. McDermott and Daisy walk up to them. Hey-don't worry, be happy. Price lifts his arms up as if greeting the crowd and is shouting something that can't be heard, then
BATEMAN: Where to? Morgan Stanley? Rehab? What? Price looks away. McDermott and Daisy walk up to them. Hey-don't worry, be happy. Price lifts his arms up as if greeting the crowd and is shouting something that can't be heard, then
PRICE: Where to? Morgan Stanley? Rehab? What? Price looks away. McDermott and Daisy walk up to them. Hey-don't worry, be happy. Price lifts his arms up as if greeting the crowd and is shouting something that can't be heard, then
BATEMAN: Where to? Morgan Stanley? Rehab? What? Price looks away. McDermott and Daisy walk up to them. Hey-don't worry, be happy. Price lifts his arms up as if greeting the crowd and is shouting something that can't be heard, then
PRICE: He climbs over the railing. DAISY What is he doing?
BATEMAN: Price leaps from the balcony. He disappears for a moment then resurfaces and runs off into the crowd.
DAISY: in this band that just opened for U2-he couldn't understand what I was doing with a yuppie.
BATEMAN: ( She laughs ) He said you gave him bad vibes.
DAISY: ( She laughs ) He said you gave him bad vibes.
BATEMAN: She takes his hand as they get into a cab.
DAISY: She takes his hand as they get into a cab.
BATEMAN: She takes his hand as they get into a cab.
DAISY: She takes his hand as they get into a cab.
BATEMAN: She takes his hand as they get into a cab.
DAISY: She takes his hand as they get into a cab.
JEAN: Bateman nods without looking up.
JEAN: BATEMAN doesn't respond. We see that every space on the puzzle has been filled in with the words MEAT or BONE. Jean drops the folder on his desk and then walks out.
BATEMAN: Yes, Patrick?
JEAN: Yes, Patrick?
BATEMAN: He erases one of the M's on the crossword puzzle.
BATEMAN: Well, isn't this a coincidence. A pause.
JEAN: Well, isn't this a coincidence. A pause.
BATEMAN: Well, isn't this a coincidence. A pause.
BATEMAN: He leans back and pulls a Zagat's from the desk drawer.
JEAN: anywhere you want.
BATEMAN: anywhere you want.
JEAN: ( Sighs ) I don't know.
BATEMAN: ( Sighs ) I don't know.
JEAN: ( Sighs ) I don't know.
BATEMAN: Just say it. I can get us in anywhere. A long pause.
JEAN: Bateman stops looking through the Zagat's guide and smiles at her.
BATEMAN: He dials the number.
JEAN: He dials the number.
BATEMAN: He dials the number.
MAITRE D': nine o'clock? He checks his Rolex and winks at Jean.
BATEMAN: nine o'clock? He checks his Rolex and winks at Jean.
MAITRE D': MAITRE D' MAITRE D' also totally booked.
BATEMAN: MAITRE D' MAITRE D' also totally booked.
MAITRE D': MAITRE D' also totally booked.
BATEMAN: MAITRE D' also totally booked.
MAITRE D': also totally booked.
BATEMAN: He hangs up the phone. He walks over to the coat rack. He glances over at Jean, who is still standing in front of the desk, confused.
BATEMAN: for drinks, okay? She turns to leave.
JEAN: for drinks, okay? She turns to leave.
BATEMAN: for drinks, okay? She turns to leave.
BATEMAN: for drinks, okay? She turns to leave.
BATEMAN: INT. BATEMAN'S APARTMENT - EARLY EVENING Jean stands by the floor-to-ceiling windows, looking out.
JEAN: Bateman opens up the freezer where Daisy's head is cleady Bateman walks in with a bottle of wine and a corkscrew in his hand and hands her the sorbet. Jean is eating the sorbet.
BATEMAN: Bateman walks in with a bottle of wine and a corkscrew in his hand and hands her the sorbet. Jean is eating the sorbet.
JEAN: Bateman walks in with a bottle of wine and a corkscrew in his hand and hands her the sorbet. Jean is eating the sorbet.
JEAN: You look great. Very fit.
BATEMAN: You look great. Very fit.
JEAN: You look great. Very fit.
BATEMAN: You can always he thinner. Look.better.
JEAN: want to ruin your willpower.
BATEMAN: it anyway. Silence, as Bateman walks around his apartment, opens up his knife drawer, looking at the knives.
BATEMAN: but I really don't know.I'm at a point in my life where there seems lo be a lot of possibilities, but I'm so. I don't know.unsure. Bateman is touching a knife in the drawer, feeling the edge of the blade.
BATEMAN: but I really don't know.I'm at a point in my life where there seems lo be a lot of possibilities, but I'm so. I don't know.unsure. Bateman is touching a knife in the drawer, feeling the edge of the blade.
JEAN: but I really don't know.I'm at a point in my life where there seems lo be a lot of possibilities, but I'm so. I don't know.unsure. Bateman is touching a knife in the drawer, feeling the edge of the blade.
BATEMAN: Are you seeing anyone? I mean, seriously?
JEAN: Are you seeing anyone? I mean, seriously?
BATEMAN: Are you seeing anyone? I mean, seriously?
JEAN: Are you seeing anyone? I mean, seriously?
BATEMAN: Bateman opens up a cupboard where there are a lot of very Bateman opens a cupboard where there are a lot of neatly ordered weapons - an ax, a rifle, a chain saw, duct tape, twine and a nail gun.
BATEMAN: on my work, I think, but now I've really begun to think about changing myself, you know, developing, and.growing.
JEAN: on my work, I think, but now I've really begun to think about changing myself, you know, developing, and.growing.
BATEMAN: Bateman picks up the duct tape.
BATEMAN: was named Lassie? Had you heard this?
JEAN: taping something. Bateman goes back to the cupboard for the nail gun.
BATEMAN: taping something. Bateman goes back to the cupboard for the nail gun.
JEAN: taping something. Bateman goes back to the cupboard for the nail gun.
BATEMAN: taping something. Bateman goes back to the cupboard for the nail gun.
JEAN: Jean puts her spoon down on the table.
BATEMAN: What.No! Put it in the carton.
JEAN: ( She puts the spoon in the carton )
BATEMAN: From behind, we follow Bateman as he walks across the room and stands behind the couch.
JEAN: From behind, we follow Bateman as he walks across the room and stands behind the couch.
BATEMAN: want to have a meaningful relationship with someone special.
JEAN: He points the nail gun at the back of Jean's head. The phone RINGS. Startled, Bateman hides the nail gun behind his back. The answering machine picks up. As Bateman listens he discreetly places the nail gun behind the couch. He sits down opposite Jean, enjoying her discomfort as she listens to the message.
EVELYN: What are you up to tonight? It's me. Don't try to hide. I hope you're not out with some little number you picked up because you're my Mr. Bateman. My boy next door. Anyway you never called me and you said you would and I'll leave a message for Jean about this too to remind you but we're having dinner with Melania and Taylor-you know Melania, she went to Sweet Briar, auld Taylor, he went to Cornell-and we're meeting at the Cornell Club, so l'll call you tomorrow morning probably-bye, honey-oopps! You hate that. Bye Mr. Big Time CEO Patrick. Bye. Bye. Silence. Jean is obviously embarrassed and upset.
JEAN: A long pause.
JEAN: A long pause.
JEAN: A long pause.
JEAN: A long pause.
BATEMAN: involved with unavailable men, and.I mean, do you want me to go? Another long pause.
JEAN: involved with unavailable men, and.I mean, do you want me to go? Another long pause.
BATEMAN: think I might hurt you. ( Almost hopefully ) You don't want to get hurt, do you?
JEAN: You're right, I should go. She gets up to leave.
JEAN: Frederick Bennet and Charles Rust at '21.
BATEMAN: He sinks back on the sofa and shuts his eyes.
BATEMAN: into my office. Jean, great jacket. Matsuda? Jean looks flustered. Kimball follows Bateman into his office.
KIMBALL: taken a leave of absence.
BATEMAN: ( Hopefully ) Is he a suspect?
KIMBALL: A pause.
KIMBALL: Paul's disappearance? ( He checks his notebook ) Which was on the twentieth of December?
BATEMAN: He opens his desk drawer and pretends to search through his you received?
BATEMAN: you received?
KIMBALL: you received?
BATEMAN: you received?
KIMBALL: you received?
BATEMAN: you received?
KIMBALL: ( He flips through his notebook ) That you were with-
BATEMAN: We had.gone to a new musical called.Oh Africa, Brave Africa. It was.a laugh riot.and that's about it. I think we had dinner at Orso's. No, Petaluma. No, Orso's. The.last time I physically saw him was.at an automated teller. I can't remember which.just one that was near, um, Nell's. Kimball is clearly giving up on Bateman for now. He opens his briefcase to put away his notebook.
KIMBALL: We had.gone to a new musical called.Oh Africa, Brave Africa. It was.a laugh riot.and that's about it. I think we had dinner at Orso's. No, Petaluma. No, Orso's. The.last time I physically saw him was.at an automated teller. I can't remember which.just one that was near, um, Nell's. Kimball is clearly giving up on Bateman for now. He opens his briefcase to put away his notebook.
BATEMAN: We had.gone to a new musical called.Oh Africa, Brave Africa. It was.a laugh riot.and that's about it. I think we had dinner at Orso's. No, Petaluma. No, Orso's. The.last time I physically saw him was.at an automated teller. I can't remember which.just one that was near, um, Nell's. Kimball is clearly giving up on Bateman for now. He opens his briefcase to put away his notebook.
KIMBALL: day-a bit scattered.
BATEMAN: day-a bit scattered.
KIMBALL: in a week or so when I've sorted out all this information?
BATEMAN: the night of Owen's disappearance, it would make my job a lot easier.
KIMBALL: the night of Owen's disappearance, it would make my job a lot easier.
BATEMAN: Kimball is rifling through his briefcase. He pulls out a new shrink wrapped CD and holds it up.
KIMBALL: just bought it on my way here. Bateman stares at the CD - stunned, terrified.
BATEMAN: black sounding. For me.
KIMBALL: black sounding. For me.
BATEMAN: black sounding. For me.
KIMBALL: call your secretary about reservations.
BATEMAN: EXT. MEAT PACKING DISTRICT/INT. LIMOUSINE - NIGHT The same street corner where Bateman found Christie before. The limo is kept idling as he talks to her through a half-opened window.
CHRISTIE: last time.
BATEMAN: He hands her a $500 bill.
CHRISTIE: He hands her a $500 bill.
BATEMAN: The driver's here, you'll be safe. Christie gets in hesitantly.
BATEMAN: He pours her a shot of vodka and makes her drink it.
CHRISTIE: He pours her a shot of vodka and makes her drink it.
BATEMAN: So, you're looking great, how have you been?
CHRISTIE: Well, I actually might need a little surgery after last time.
BATEMAN: He writes her a check for $I ,000 to cash and hands it to her. She snatches the check out of his hand and gets quickly out of the limo, walking hurriedly down the street.
CHRISTIE: He writes her a check for $I ,000 to cash and hands it to her. She snatches the check out of his hand and gets quickly out of the limo, walking hurriedly down the street.
BATEMAN: He writes her a check for $I ,000 to cash and hands it to her. She snatches the check out of his hand and gets quickly out of the limo, walking hurriedly down the street.
BATEMAN: He follows alongside her slowly in the limo, waving a huge wad of cash at her. She hesitates; he uses the money to lure her into the car. As she reluctantly gets into the limo, she reaches for the money. He snatches it away.
BATEMAN: She takes the money and puts it inside her shirt.
BATEMAN: Elizabeth. She'll be joining us in my new apartment shortly. You'll like her. She's a very nice girl. Don't say anything about yourself. Is that clear. Christie? Christie nods.
ELIZABETH: Christie shakes her head. The kitchen: Bateman is grinding up tabs of Ecstasy and putting them in a bottle of wine. In the living room, Elizabeth is still staring at Christie as if she came from Mars.
ELIZABETH: Christie looks blank.
ELIZABETH: Christie still blank.
ELIZABETH: Christie shakes her head.
ELIZABETH: day party there for Malcolm Forbes. Oh my God, please. Bateman enters carrying the bottle of wine and two glasses. Christie, who seems frightened, sips her wine and stares at the floor. There is an awkward silence.
CHRISTIE: It's not that nice. '87, and. ( Turning to Patrick ) You were hanging out with that bimbo Allison Poole. ( Sarcastically ) Hot number.
BATEMAN: It's not that nice. '87, and. ( Turning to Patrick ) You were hanging out with that bimbo Allison Poole. ( Sarcastically ) Hot number.
CHRISTIE: '87, and. ( Turning to Patrick ) You were hanging out with that bimbo Allison Poole. ( Sarcastically ) Hot number.
ELIZABETH: '87, and. ( Turning to Patrick ) You were hanging out with that bimbo Allison Poole. ( Sarcastically ) Hot number.
BATEMAN: ( To Christie ) Listen, this girl worked in a tanning salon, need I say more?.What do you do? A long silence. Christie reddens and stares at the floor.
ELIZABETH: ( To Christie ) Listen, this girl worked in a tanning salon, need I say more?.What do you do? A long silence. Christie reddens and stares at the floor.
BATEMAN: Uh huh?
ELIZABETH: Uh huh?
BATEMAN: A pause. Elizabeth looks at Bateman dubiously.
ELIZABETH: Bateman hands her a cordless phone. She dials, and stares At Christie while she waits for someone to answer.
ELIZABETH: Christie looks at Bateman and then back at Elizabeth.
CHRISTIE: Oh God, it's his machine.
ELIZABETH: Oh God, it's his machine.
BATEMAN: Bateman has poured her another glass of wine. She downs the whole glass, making a face.
ELIZABETH: Bateman has poured her another glass of wine. She downs the whole glass, making a face.
BATEMAN: Bateman has poured her another glass of wine. She downs the whole glass, making a face.
ELIZABETH: Bateman has poured her another glass of wine. She downs the whole glass, making a face.
ELIZABETH: ( She examines the label and shrugs ) Harley? It's me. I need your services. Translate that anyway you'd like. I'm at-
BATEMAN: You're at Paul Owen s.
ELIZABETH: Paul Owen.
BATEMAN: Paul Owen.
ELIZABETH: ( She waves him away and continues into the reciever ) Anyway, I'm at Paul Norman's and I'll try you later and if I don't see you at Canal Bar tomorrow night I'm going to sic my hairdresser on you. She hangs up.
ELIZABETH: & Pierce, too? Was he a friend of yours?
BATEMAN: Bateman sits next to Elizabeth on the couch and pours her another glass of the drugged wine.
ELIZABETH: Bateman sits next to Elizabeth on the couch and pours her another glass of the drugged wine.
BATEMAN: What's wrong with that? It's totally disease-free.
ELIZABETH: Patrick, you re a lunatic.
BATEMAN: ( Flirty ) I'm in no mood to have a lewd conversation.
ELIZABETH: ( Flirty ) I'm in no mood to have a lewd conversation.
BATEMAN: Does he do this all the time? Christie shrugs.
ELIZABETH: Does he do this all the time? Christie shrugs.
BATEMAN: Christie looks at her wine and gingerly takes a sip.
BATEMAN: Are you telling me you've never gotten it on with a girl?
ELIZABETH: feel weird.
BATEMAN: feel weird.
ELIZABETH: feel weird.
BATEMAN: called simply Whitney Houston had four number-one singles on it? Did you know that, Christie? Whitney's voice leaps across so many boundaries and is so versatile-though she's mainly a jazz singer-that it's hard to take in the album on a first listening.
ELIZABETH: actually have a Whitney Houston CD? More than one? She giggles, rolling off the sofa onto the floor.
BATEMAN: It's hard to choose a favorite track among so many great ones, but "The Greatest Love of All" is one of the best, most powerful songs ever written about self-preservation and dignity. It's universal message crosses all boundaries, and instills one with the hope that it's not too late to better ourselves. to act kinder. Since, Elizabeth, it's impossible in the world we live in to empathize with others, we can always empathize with As he speaks, he opens the case and carefully places the CD in the player, admiring its pristine silver surface, and watches it slide into the machine.
BATEMAN: beautifully stated on the album.
BATEMAN: piece of bitch trash! Christie, screaming, makes it out the front door. Bateman runs after her. She runs down the hall screaming and banging on doors. She moves to the elevator, pounding hysterically on the buttons. She sees the stairwell and runs for it. Bateman sees this and runs after her, revving the chainsaw. She runs down the stairs, Bateman two flights behind her. He stops, leans over the railing to look at her, then aims the chainsaw at her and drops it. Christie SCREAMS OFFSCREEN, then is suddenly silent. FROM BATEMAN'S POV we see Christie's body sprawled facedown at the bottom of the stairwell. The chainsaw sticks out of her back like a sword.
EVELYN: Evelyn waves to a couple across the room.
BATEMAN: Evelyn waves to a couple across the room.
EVELYN: Why? What's wrong?
BATEMAN: My need to engage in homicidal behavior on a massive scale cannot be, um, corrected, but I have no other way to fulfill my needs. The woman across the room holds up her hand, displaying a new bracelet. Evelyn smiles and nods approvingly.
BATEMAN: Touchy, touchy. I'm sorry I brought the wedding up. Let's just avoid the issue, alright? Now, are we having coffee?
EVELYN: Touchy, touchy. I'm sorry I brought the wedding up. Let's just avoid the issue, alright? Now, are we having coffee?
BATEMAN: Touchy, touchy. I'm sorry I brought the wedding up. Let's just avoid the issue, alright? Now, are we having coffee?
EVELYN: Touchy, touchy. I'm sorry I brought the wedding up. Let's just avoid the issue, alright? Now, are we having coffee?
BATEMAN: is no joke. I don't think we should see each other anymore.
EVELYN: friends. I don't think it would work. ( Reaching over to dab his face with a napkin ) You have a little something on your upper lip.
BATEMAN: I know that your friends are my friends. I've thought about that. You can have them. Evelyn stares at him, suspicious and bewildered, a realization dawning.
EVELYN: ( He pauses, as if searching for the right words ) You're just not terribly important to me. Evelyn begins to cry.
BATEMAN: ( He pauses, as if searching for the right words ) You're just not terribly important to me. Evelyn begins to cry.
EVELYN: ( He pauses, as if searching for the right words ) You're just not terribly important to me. Evelyn begins to cry.
BATEMAN: ( He pauses, as if searching for the right words ) You're just not terribly important to me. Evelyn begins to cry.
EVELYN: ( He pauses, as if searching for the right words ) You're just not terribly important to me. Evelyn begins to cry.
BATEMAN: ( He pauses, as if searching for the right words ) You're just not terribly important to me. Evelyn begins to cry.
EVELYN: She reaches desperately across the table and takes his hand. Bateman pulls his hand away.
BATEMAN: She reaches desperately across the table and takes his hand. Bateman pulls his hand away.
EVELYN: What do you want me to do, what is it you want? The occupants of nearby tables begin to stare. Bateman is becoming increasingly agitated and embarrassed.
BATEMAN: If you really want to do something for me, you can stop making this scene right now.
EVELYN: Evelyn makes an effort to compose herself. She blots the tears so they will not affect her make-up.
BATEMAN: Evelyn makes an effort to compose herself. She blots the tears so they will not affect her make-up.
EVELYN: Where are you going?
BATEMAN: He rushes out of the room.
EVELYN: He rushes out of the room.
BATEMAN: He rushes out of the room.
BATEMAN: The small mangy cat rubs against him. He picks it up and walks toward an ATM, holding the cat. He puts his card in the machine. The screen reads: FEED ME A STRAY CAT. Bateman begins to attempt to shove the kitten into the deposit slot with some difficulty. The kitten squeals. He takes a gun from out of his pocket and points it at the kitten. He doesn't notice the woman waiting behind him.
WOMAN: Bateman wheels around and shoots her. She falls screaming to the floor. Responding to the gunshot, A POLICE CAR SIREN WAILS in the distance. Bateman breaks into a run. The police car screeches after him.
COP CAR: The cops leap out and fire a warning shot in the air. Bateman shoots at them. The police return fire. Bateman ducks down behind a parked car and continues shooting wildly. A bullet hits the gas tank of one of the police cars. It catches fire and explodes. The flames light up the scene, illuminating the bodies of policemen both living and dead. NEW ANGLE: Bateman flees from the scene. The camera follows him as he runs along a row of Porsches, trying to open each one, setting off a cacophony of CAR ALARMS. THE SOUND OF POLICE SIRENS draws near. NEW ANGLE: He runs, panting, until he ends up in front of a tail, brilliantly lit office building. As he approaches, the lights in the building are going off floor by floor.
NIGHT WATCHMAN: forgot to sign in. Bateman wheels around and shoots him. He runs toward the revolving doors. As he swings around in the doors, he notices a JANITOR who has witnessed the shooting. He revolves back into the lobby and shoots the janitor.
BATEMAN: lawyer so I think you should know-I've killed a lot of people. Some escort girls, in an apartment uptown, some homeless people, maybe five or ten, an NYU girl I met in Central Park. I left her in a parking lot, near Dunkin' Donuts. I killed Bethany, my old girlfriend, with a nail gun. and a man, some old faggot with a dog. Last week I killed another girl with a chainsaw-I had to, she almost got away There was someone else there, maybe a model, I can't remember but she's dead too. And Paul Owen. I killed Paul Owen with an ax, in the face. His body is dissolving in a bathtub in Hell's Kitchen. I don't want to leave anything out here.I guess I've killed 20 people, maybe 40-I have tapes of a lot of it. Some of the girls have seen the tapes, I even. well, I ate some of their brains and I tried to cook a little. Tonight I just, well, I had to kill a lot of people and I'm not sure I 'm going to get away with it this time-I mean I guess I'm a pretty sick guy. So-if you get hack tomorrow, I may show up at Harry's Bar, so, you know, keep your eyes open. Bateman hangs up the phone. The helicopter searchlight circles back, briefly illuminating the room. The camera rises up over Bateman huddled in the corner, staring blankly at the INT. SMITH AND WOLLENSKY RESTAURANT - DAY KIMBALL and Bateman are sitting at a corner table.
KIMBALL: No hash browns?
BATEMAN: mean- it's-have you been here before?
KIMBALL: mean- it's-have you been here before?
BATEMAN: Yes, of course. The hash browns are delicious. I'm just.not. ordering them.
KIMBALL: Suit yourself, I guess. what you did?
KIMBALL: what you did?
BATEMAN: secretary, he had dinner with.Marcus Halberstam.
KIMBALL: secretary, he had dinner with.Marcus Halberstam.
BATEMAN: secretary, he had dinner with.Marcus Halberstam.
KIMBALL: secretary, he had dinner with.Marcus Halberstam.
BATEMAN: be sure.
KIMBALL: be sure.
BATEMAN: be sure.
KIMBALL: be sure.
BATEMAN: A pause.
KIMBALL: A pause.
BATEMAN: A pause.
KIMBALL: A pause.
BATEMAN: I checked it out. It's clean.
KIMBALL: I checked it out. It's clean.
BATEMAN: KIMBALL Now where were you? ( He laughs )
BATEMAN: Where was Marcus?
KIMBALL: Harry Newman, George Butner and – ( He pauses, Then looks up ) - you. A moment of stunned silence.
BATEMAN: Harry Newman, George Butner and – ( He pauses, Then looks up ) - you. A moment of stunned silence.
KIMBALL: Harry Newman, George Butner and – ( He pauses, Then looks up ) - you. A moment of stunned silence.
BATEMAN: to come. But he said he had plans.I guess I had dinner with Victoria.the following night.
KIMBALL: a while. Maybe he did go to London. Sightseeing. Drinking. Whatever. Anyway, I'm pretty sure he'll turn up sooner or ( A pause ) I mean, to think that one of his friends killed him, for no reason whatsoever would be too ridiculous. Isn't that right, Patrick? McDermott stops by the table. KIMBALL! How's the investigation? Talking to Bateman? Don't believe a word he says. ( Laughs uproariously slapping him on the back ) Bateman, what's wrong with ,you? Bateman looks at him in silence, You can't eat at Smith and Wollensky without ordering the hash browns. Jesus, Bateman, you're a raving maniac. Been at Pierce & Pierce too long. ( He wanders off muttering ) No fucking hash browns.
DOORMAN: don't you? Bateman steps out of the elevator and walks cautiously down the hallway. Owen's door is open. The apartment is freshly painted and has been immaculately redecorated in English country-house style: overstuffed sofas, lots of chintz. There are flowers everywhere, and a YOUNG YUPPIE COUPLE stands admiring the place talkingto the realtor, MRS. WOLFE. Bateman wanders down the hallway, looking for familiar signs. He stops at the closet where we last saw two dead girls hanging. He opens the door and the light switches on, but it is empty. Mrs. Wolfe approaches, smiling.
BATEMAN: don't you? Bateman steps out of the elevator and walks cautiously down the hallway. Owen's door is open. The apartment is freshly painted and has been immaculately redecorated in English country-house style: overstuffed sofas, lots of chintz. There are flowers everywhere, and a YOUNG YUPPIE COUPLE stands admiring the place talkingto the realtor, MRS. WOLFE. Bateman wanders down the hallway, looking for familiar signs. He stops at the closet where we last saw two dead girls hanging. He opens the door and the light switches on, but it is empty. Mrs. Wolfe approaches, smiling.
DOORMAN: don't you? Bateman steps out of the elevator and walks cautiously down the hallway. Owen's door is open. The apartment is freshly painted and has been immaculately redecorated in English country-house style: overstuffed sofas, lots of chintz. There are flowers everywhere, and a YOUNG YUPPIE COUPLE stands admiring the place talkingto the realtor, MRS. WOLFE. Bateman wanders down the hallway, looking for familiar signs. He stops at the closet where we last saw two dead girls hanging. He opens the door and the light switches on, but it is empty. Mrs. Wolfe approaches, smiling.
BATEMAN: don't you? Bateman steps out of the elevator and walks cautiously down the hallway. Owen's door is open. The apartment is freshly painted and has been immaculately redecorated in English country-house style: overstuffed sofas, lots of chintz. There are flowers everywhere, and a YOUNG YUPPIE COUPLE stands admiring the place talkingto the realtor, MRS. WOLFE. Bateman wanders down the hallway, looking for familiar signs. He stops at the closet where we last saw two dead girls hanging. He opens the door and the light switches on, but it is empty. Mrs. Wolfe approaches, smiling.
DOORMAN: don't you? Bateman steps out of the elevator and walks cautiously down the hallway. Owen's door is open. The apartment is freshly painted and has been immaculately redecorated in English country-house style: overstuffed sofas, lots of chintz. There are flowers everywhere, and a YOUNG YUPPIE COUPLE stands admiring the place talkingto the realtor, MRS. WOLFE. Bateman wanders down the hallway, looking for familiar signs. He stops at the closet where we last saw two dead girls hanging. He opens the door and the light switches on, but it is empty. Mrs. Wolfe approaches, smiling.
MRS. WOLFE: Mrs. Wolfe eyes him strangely, then looks down at the surgical mash clutched in his hand. Her expression changes.
BATEMAN: Mrs. Wolfe eyes him strangely, then looks down at the surgical mash clutched in his hand. Her expression changes.
MRS. WOLFE: She stares at him impassively.
BATEMAN: She stares at him impassively.
BATEMAN: MRS. WOLFE MRS. WOLFE doesn't Paul Owen still live here?
MRS. WOLFE: MRS. WOLFE doesn't Paul Owen still live here?
BATEMAN: MRS. WOLFE doesn't Paul Owen still live here?
MRS. WOLFE: doesn't Paul Owen still live here?
BATEMAN: doesn't Paul Owen still live here?
MRS. WOLFE: Bateman is shaking as they continue to stare at each other.
MRS. WOLFE: MRS. WOLFE Bateman backs away slowly.
BATEMAN: MRS. WOLFE Bateman backs away slowly.
MRS. WOLFE: Bateman backs away slowly.
MRS. WOLFE: Mrs. Wolfe glares at him as he walks down the hall, rattled, and gets into the elevator.
BATEMAN: Mrs. Wolfe glares at him as he walks down the hall, rattled, and gets into the elevator.
GUY: Bateman looks up at him wild-eyed.
GUY: The guy walks away, utterly unfazed. Bateman wanders down the street, banging his briefcase against walls, garbage cans, etc.
BATEMAN: JEAN ( O.S. ) JEAN ( O.S. ) JEAN ( O.S. ) David Van Patten and Tim Price at Harry's for drinks.
BATEMAN: JEAN ( O.S. ) JEAN ( O.S. ) David Van Patten and Tim Price at Harry's for drinks.
BATEMAN: JEAN ( O.S. ) David Van Patten and Tim Price at Harry's for drinks.
BATEMAN: JEAN ( O.S. ) JEAN ( O.S. ) JEAN ( O.S. ) JEAN ( O.S. ) He hangs up. He throws the Walkman which is around his neck into a nearby trash can, and wipes his face with his INT. BATEMAN'S OFFICE- SAME DAY Jean sits at Bateman's desk. She looks around, and then opens his desk drawer and tentatively begins to search through it.
BATEMAN: JEAN ( O.S. ) JEAN ( O.S. ) JEAN ( O.S. ) He hangs up. He throws the Walkman which is around his neck into a nearby trash can, and wipes his face with his INT. BATEMAN'S OFFICE- SAME DAY Jean sits at Bateman's desk. She looks around, and then opens his desk drawer and tentatively begins to search through it.
BATEMAN: JEAN ( O.S. ) JEAN ( O.S. ) He hangs up. He throws the Walkman which is around his neck into a nearby trash can, and wipes his face with his INT. BATEMAN'S OFFICE- SAME DAY Jean sits at Bateman's desk. She looks around, and then opens his desk drawer and tentatively begins to search through it.
BATEMAN: JEAN ( O.S. ) JEAN ( O.S. ) He hangs up. He throws the Walkman which is around his neck into a nearby trash can, and wipes his face with his INT. BATEMAN'S OFFICE- SAME DAY Jean sits at Bateman's desk. She looks around, and then opens his desk drawer and tentatively begins to search through it.
BATEMAN: JEAN ( O.S. ) He hangs up. He throws the Walkman which is around his neck into a nearby trash can, and wipes his face with his INT. BATEMAN'S OFFICE- SAME DAY Jean sits at Bateman's desk. She looks around, and then opens his desk drawer and tentatively begins to search through it.
BATEMAN: He hangs up. He throws the Walkman which is around his neck into a nearby trash can, and wipes his face with his INT. BATEMAN'S OFFICE- SAME DAY Jean sits at Bateman's desk. She looks around, and then opens his desk drawer and tentatively begins to search through it.
BATEMAN: I'm not going anywhere unless we have a reservation. VAN PATTEN Le Cirque, Flamingo East, Oyster Bar, come on, faggots-just get a res.
PRICE: Bateman spots HAROLD CARNES at the bar, tenses.
BATEMAN: Excuse me, gentlemen. Right back. He approaches Carnes cautiously.
CARNES: end of the '90s. Bateman approaches, trying to act casual.
BATEMAN: Carnes is surprised, turns around, looks vaguely confused.
BATEMAN: Carnes lights a cigarette, stalling. Then laughs.
CARNES: wasn't it?
BATEMAN: Yes, naturally.
CARNES: fabulous. That's rich. Carnes is distracted, waving at people.
CARNES: Carnes is distracted, waving at people.
BATEMAN: Carnes is distracted, waving at people.
CARNES: Carnes is distracted, waving at people.
CARNES: seeing her, right?
BATEMAN: Carnes isn't really listening.
CARNES: He turns to go.
BATEMAN: Davis. I'm not one to bad-mouth anyone, your joke was amusing. But come on, man, you had one fatal flaw: Bateman's such a dork, such a boring, spineless lightweight, that I couldn't fully appreciate it. I wasn't fooled for a second. Now, if you'd said Price, or McDermott.Otherwise, it was amusing. Now, let's have lunch or dinner or something. Hilarious, Davis. A killer.
CARNES: Davis. I'm not one to bad-mouth anyone, your joke was amusing. But come on, man, you had one fatal flaw: Bateman's such a dork, such a boring, spineless lightweight, that I couldn't fully appreciate it. I wasn't fooled for a second. Now, if you'd said Price, or McDermott.Otherwise, it was amusing. Now, let's have lunch or dinner or something. Hilarious, Davis. A killer.
BATEMAN: alone.what was it you said he did to her? Carnes looks around the club, raises his glass to a passing couple. He laughs politely.
CARNES: alone.what was it you said he did to her? Carnes looks around the club, raises his glass to a passing couple. He laughs politely.
CARNES: Wait. Stop. You don't seem to understand. You're not really comprehending any of this. I killed him. I did it, Carnes. I'm Patrick Bateman. I chopped Owen's fucking head off. I tortured dozens of girls. The whole message I left on your machine was true.
BATEMAN: Wait. Stop. You don't seem to understand. You're not really comprehending any of this. I killed him. I did it, Carnes. I'm Patrick Bateman. I chopped Owen's fucking head off. I tortured dozens of girls. The whole message I left on your machine was true.
CARNES: Patrick Bateman! I talk to you on the phone all the time! Don't you recognize me? You're my lawyer. Carnes stares at him in confusion and annoyance.
BATEMAN: Patrick Bateman! I talk to you on the phone all the time! Don't you recognize me? You're my lawyer. Carnes stares at him in confusion and annoyance.
BATEMAN: Paul Owen and I liked it. I can't make myself any clearer
CARNES: this funny anymore.
BATEMAN: It's just not.
CARNES: It's just not.
BATEMAN: Carnes stares at him.
CARNES: London.just ten days ago.
BATEMAN: Bateman returns back to his friends' table, in a daze. They are all looking at the television, where Ronald Reagan is giving a speech about Iran Contra. They are halfheartedly arguing about whether or not he's VAN PATTEN I mean I'm not really hungry, but I would like to have reservations somewhere.
CARNES: Bateman returns back to his friends' table, in a daze. They are all looking at the television, where Ronald Reagan is giving a speech about Iran Contra. They are halfheartedly arguing about whether or not he's VAN PATTEN I mean I'm not really hungry, but I would like to have reservations somewhere.
PRICE: VAN PATTEN I mean I'm not really hungry, but I would like to have reservations somewhere.
VAN PATTEN: I mean I'm not really hungry, but I would like to have reservations somewhere.
PRICE: I don't believe it. He looks so.normal. He seems so. out of it. So.undangerous. He is totally harmless you geek. Was totally harmless. Just like you are totally harmless. But he did do all that shit and you have failed lo get us into I 50, so, you know, what can I say?
PRICE: way and yet be involved in such total shit. How can you be so fucking, I don't know, cool about it?
VAN PATTEN: Bateman laughs at this. Price shoots him a look.
PRICE: VAN PATTEN Working for UNICEF now? Do you want another Perrier Timothy? Some seltzer water?
BATEMAN: VAN PATTEN Working for UNICEF now? Do you want another Perrier Timothy? Some seltzer water?
VAN PATTEN: Working for UNICEF now? Do you want another Perrier Timothy? Some seltzer water?
PRICE: Old codger. But inside. The SOUNDS OF THE BAR FADE AWAY and we hear Bateman's thoughts:
PRICE: The SOUNDS OF THE BAR FADE AWAY and we hear Bateman's thoughts:
PRICE: Bateman looks up and smiles at Price. Then shrugs.
BATEMAN: The conversation breaks up as Van Patten takes out his phone.
VAN PATTEN: The sounds of the bar fade down. The following voiceover runs over images of Bateman and his friends ordering drinks, talking on portable phones, talking, laughing - combined with images of other very similar young men at other tables drinking, talking on portable phones, talking, laughing,
CREDITS ROLL: Writers : Matthew Markwalder
