SHOOTING SCRIPT: 27TH JULY 2012
FIGURE: Kill them. Kill them all. Butch stands and takes the rifle. The figure retreats back into the shadows.
MIXTER: Lisa Templeton? Lisa stands abruptly, dropping her file in the process.
LISA: Me! Sorry- Lisa scrambles to pick up the file and papers fall out of Mixter smiles.
LISA: Mixter smiles.
LISA: Oh God, I'm sorry, I didn't mean to say that!
MIXTER: It's quite alright. I'm Doctor Elliot Mixter. Come into my office. Lisa manages to retrieve the file and papers from the floor and compose herself. Mixter holds the door open and Lisa enters the office.
MIXTER: Please, take a seat. Lisa sinks into a chair next to a large oak desk. Mixter walks to the opposite side and sits in a large leather chair facing her.
LISA: I've uh. brought my resume and some references. I know I already sent a copy with my application but just in case.
MIXTER: Thank you. Mixter takes the file from her and opens it on his desk. He glances over it.
MIXTER: Very good. I see you've had lots of experience cleaning private homes.
LISA: Yes, I uh. I've done a lot of Well an institution such as this one is a very different Oh yes. Yes I know. You'll see I've also worked cleaning a school, so I am used to big areas.
MIXTER: Well an institution such as this one is a very different Oh yes. Yes I know. You'll see I've also worked cleaning a school, so I am used to big areas.
LISA: Oh yes. Yes I know. You'll see I've also worked cleaning a school, so I am used to big areas.
MIXTER: Yes I've seen that. When I say this is a different proposition I mean in terms of the sensitivity required due to the nature of what we do here.
LISA: Oh yes, yes of course.
MIXTER: You would mainly be working night shifts at a time when patients are on lock down. But many of our patients here have psychological disturbances so there may be situations where you have to clean up things you may not be used to cleaning up. If you know what I'm I know what you mean, yes.
LISA: I know what you mean, yes.
MIXTER: Would that bother you?
LISA: It may be strange at first but I actually have some experience in
MIXTER: I see. How is your mother now?
LISA: Well. she passed away.
MIXTER: I'm sorry to hear that. So. it's important to me that every employee here, whether they are a psychiatrist, an orderly or a cleaner, needs to fully understand what our mission statement at this hospital is.
LISA: High Hopes was only built two years ago and as an institution we have only been running for just over a year now. So we're still building our reputation. But I am very clear on what I want that reputation to be. I intend to make this institution one of the foremost centres for mental health treatment in the country. If you look into my history you'll know that I have a stellar reputation in the field of psychiatry and I want to use that to help others. That is why I have put my own money into the creation of this institution. We are only just starting out but we have a long term ambition to be considered the best. So what I require is that every person who works at this institution, in any capacity, must be professional and sensitive to the needs of the patients. Unlike other institutions, the welfare and care of our patients comes first
MIXTER: High Hopes was only built two years ago and as an institution we have only been running for just over a year now. So we're still building our reputation. But I am very clear on what I want that reputation to be. I intend to make this institution one of the foremost centres for mental health treatment in the country. If you look into my history you'll know that I have a stellar reputation in the field of psychiatry and I want to use that to help others. That is why I have put my own money into the creation of this institution. We are only just starting out but we have a long term ambition to be considered the best. So what I require is that every person who works at this institution, in any capacity, must be professional and sensitive to the needs of the patients. Unlike other institutions, the welfare and care of our patients comes first
LISA: I really admire that and I promise I would not let you down if I was given this job.
MIXTER: I'm sure you wouldn't. Lisa's face quickly contorts. Mixter looks puzzled. Suddenly Lisa sneezes. It shoots out so rapidly she has no time to cover her mouth and nose. She sneezes all over Mixter. Lisa looks horrified.
LISA: Oh my God, I'm so sorry!! Lisa rushes to Mixter's side and grabs a tissue from a Kleenex box on his desk. She frantically wipes the saliva and snot from his face.
MIXTER: It's quite alright, please sit down, I can take care of it. Lisa, completely mortified, sits back down. An unimpressed Mixter wipes the spittle off his face with a tissue. When he's done he stares at Lisa.
MIXTER: Okay. well thanks for coming in. I'll let you know.
LISA: Look I'm so sorry, I really am!
MIXTER: It's fine. We'll be in touch. Such is her embarrassment, Lisa can't get out of the office fast enough.
LISA: NANCY ( O.S ) Hey hun!
LISA: Hey Nancy.
LISA: It was a total fucking disaster!
LISA: I sneezed on the head of the NANCY ( O.S ) You what??
LISA: I sneezed on him! It was one of those sneezes that just sneaks up on you, I didn't have time to cover my face. Before you know it he's covered in my snot!
LISA: Go on, go ahead. You know you want NANCY ( O.S ) Laugh it up, it's gonna be your last chance because I'm not going for any more job interviews! I'm done, I'm always so damn nervous and I just don't make a good first NANCY ( O.S ) You should take my advice and show a little cleavage at these interviews! Trust me, you'd get the job then!
[HYSTERIAL LAUGHTER]: Laugh it up, it's gonna be your last chance because I'm not going for any more job interviews! I'm done, I'm always so damn nervous and I just don't make a good first NANCY ( O.S ) You should take my advice and show a little cleavage at these interviews! Trust me, you'd get the job then!
LISA: Laugh it up, it's gonna be your last chance because I'm not going for any more job interviews! I'm done, I'm always so damn nervous and I just don't make a good first NANCY ( O.S ) You should take my advice and show a little cleavage at these interviews! Trust me, you'd get the job then!
LISA: That's just not me Nance. I wouldn't know where to start with flirting or any of that. Christ, if I wore high heels to one of these interviews I'd probably trip over! I'm a clumsy dork!
LISA: I dunno. Thanks for not disputing that dork remark by the way.
LISA: I guess I'll have to sign on welfare to make the rent. Long term, maybe I should go back to school. Get better qualified for How come you don't do something with your writing? You could try and get something published. Or write a book or something?
LISA: I dunno, I just. it's like I just haven't been able to bring myself to write since . you know.
LISA: NANCY ( O.S ) You wanna talk about it?
LISA: Not really. I just think I'm gonna get myself a nice big tub of ice cream from the freezer and watch some TV.
LISA: [Smiles] I know but if there's ever a good time for ice cream it's NANCY ( O.S ) Can't argue with that! Give me a call tomorrow, let's go for coffee soon yeah?
LISA: Sure. Night.
LISA: MIXTER ( O.S ) Lisa this is Doctor Mixter at High Hopes Hospital.
LISA: Really? Oh, I uh. Hi!
LISA: Um. is this a joke or something?
LISA: MIXTER ( O.S ) Oh my God I. I can't believe it.
LISA: Oh my God I. I can't believe it.
LISA: Oh God, thank you so much! I really appreciate this, I won't let you MIXTER ( O.S ) I know you won't. We'll see you Okay, see you tomorrow! Lisa puts the phone down with a smile.
LISA: Okay, see you tomorrow! Lisa puts the phone down with a smile.
MAN: Lisa averts her eyes but the man is now aware of her presence. He has a Polish accent but his English is very
MAN: Can I help you?
LISA: Yeah, I'm here for an induction into the cleaning job.
MAN: You must be Lisa?
LISA: Yes, that's right.
MAN: Doctor Mixter said you would be coming. I'm Delaney, we'll be working together.
LISA: Oh great. Delaney climbs off the step ladder and shakes Lisa's hand.
DELANEY: We work nights so today we'll just show you around, okay?
LISA: Okay, thank you.
DELANEY: I'll clean this up and we'll get to 19.INT. STORAGE CUPBOARD ­ LATER Delaney opens the cupboard door and for a moment he and Lisa are silhouetted in the doorway. Delaney pulls a string hanging near the door and a light comes on. The cupboard is packed with various cleaning products.
DELANEY: This is the storage cupboard. Everything you will need for each
LISA: The most obvious task is hoovering. This is our hoover here, it's straight forward. You'll be surprised that although it's powerful it's very quiet, because we are working when everyone's in bed so obviously we don't want to wake them up! It has a Telescopic suction tube and six stage filter system. So a lot more powerful than you may be used to.
DELANEY: The most obvious task is hoovering. This is our hoover here, it's straight forward. You'll be surprised that although it's powerful it's very quiet, because we are working when everyone's in bed so obviously we don't want to wake them up! It has a Telescopic suction tube and six stage filter system. So a lot more powerful than you may be used to.
LISA: The mop and bucket is here, we usually use standard bleach to mix with the water so that's straight forward. But there is this specialist stain remover that you must use if there are any stains on the floor or carpet. It needs to be sprayed and left to set for twenty minutes before scrubbing or mopping. It's a special formula for tea, coffee, water marks and other yellow and brown discolourations on the carpets or floors. It's pretty strong so wash your hands after you use it!
DELANEY: The mop and bucket is here, we usually use standard bleach to mix with the water so that's straight forward. But there is this specialist stain remover that you must use if there are any stains on the floor or carpet. It needs to be sprayed and left to set for twenty minutes before scrubbing or mopping. It's a special formula for tea, coffee, water marks and other yellow and brown discolourations on the carpets or floors. It's pretty strong so wash your hands after you use it!
LISA: One of the worst parts of the job is we have to remove chewing gum from lots of surfaces. They don't just stick it underneath the tables, it ends up everywhere!
OKAY: One of the worst parts of the job is we have to remove chewing gum from lots of surfaces. They don't just stick it underneath the tables, it ends up everywhere!
DELANEY: One of the worst parts of the job is we have to remove chewing gum from lots of surfaces. They don't just stick it underneath the tables, it ends up everywhere!
LISA: Yes! I think a lot of the time it's the staff doing it, not the patients! But we have this GumCart, which is a bit complicated but it's easier than just scraping the gum. The steam is super heated to one hundred eighty degrees and delivered at seven point zero bar pressure. It can produce a hundred and fifteen litres of superheated steam per minute.
DELANEY: Yes! I think a lot of the time it's the staff doing it, not the patients! But we have this GumCart, which is a bit complicated but it's easier than just scraping the gum. The steam is super heated to one hundred eighty degrees and delivered at seven point zero bar pressure. It can produce a hundred and fifteen litres of superheated steam per minute.
LISA: Is it okay if I watch you use it a few times first so I know exactly what I'm doing? I don't want to end up burning myself or any furniture! Delaney smiles.
DELANEY: No problem. Now here we come to the most dangerous chemical we have. This is a concrete cleaner, very toxic stuff, so you have to wear the face mask and gloves we have here, okay?
LISA: This is for cleaning and descaling brick, stone and concrete and for metal de-rusting. For concrete you must mix it one part to four parts water. Brush or spray it on with the equipment here then leave it five to ten minutes to set, then rinse it off. But for those stubborn son-of-a-bitch marks use it neat!
DELANEY: This is for cleaning and descaling brick, stone and concrete and for metal de-rusting. For concrete you must mix it one part to four parts water. Brush or spray it on with the equipment here then leave it five to ten minutes to set, then rinse it off. But for those stubborn son-of-a-bitch marks use it neat!
LISA: Don't worry if anything seems complicated, you'll get used to it. But you'll mostly be mopping and hoovering in your first few weeks.
DELANEY: Don't worry if anything seems complicated, you'll get used to it. But you'll mostly be mopping and hoovering in your first few weeks.
LISA: Yeah that's fine.
DELANEY: This is Ward B, one of two wards you'll be responsible for cleaning each evening. Essentially the main duties will be emptying the bins, hoovering the carpeted areas and mopping the hallways. The patients in here are Category B. They're mainly people who have had nervous breakdowns and those who are catatonic. They're harmless. Like Missus Hardesty here. Delaney and Lisa walk over to an old woman who is sat still in the chair. Her eyes are open yet she appears lifeless.
DELANEY: Hello Missus Hardesty. No response or acknowledgement of other people's presence.
DELANEY: She hasn't spoken a word in all her time here. The orderlies just lift her from the bedroom to the day room and back again every day.
LISA: Why did you just talk to her?
DELANEY: We've still got to treat them like human beings. Otherwise they just become like furniture and we all lose our humanity. I like to think she can hear me, even if she won't talk to me. See you later Missus Missus Hardesty continues to stare into nothingness. Delaney and Lisa exit.
DELANEY: The patients are locked in their rooms on our night shift, but now and again they might have an accident we gotta clean up.
LISA: In the day time there are nurses who often clean up but in the night we may be called to provide fresh linen or mop up. Not the most pleasant of jobs but it happens from time to time.
DELANEY: In the day time there are nurses who often clean up but in the night we may be called to provide fresh linen or mop up. Not the most pleasant of jobs but it happens from time to time.
LISA: Yeah I understand. Delaney and Lisa arrive at a doorway.
DELANEY: Now here we come to the most difficult part of the job.
LISA: Cleaning crap up isn't the most difficult part?! Delaney smiles.
DELANEY: Oh no, that's very easy compared to what's behind this door.
LISA: What's behind it?
DELANEY: This leads down to Ward X.
LISA: Sounds ominous.
DELANEY: You could say that. It's where Category A patients are held. The criminally insane.
LISA: Really? Doctor Mixter didn't mention that.
DELANEY: Yes, well, these patients are beyond help so they've become athe hospital's secret. Many of them were transferred from prisons and other institutions. Doctor Mixter probably thought he could help them. He can't. The staff call this place Blood Row. Delaney opens the door.
LISA: What's that smell?
DELANEY: It always hangs in the air. No matter how much we bleach the floor there is always that smell of Lisa looks concerned.
LISA: These patients are dangerous?
DELANEY: Yes. But don't worry, we never have to interact directly or anything like that. You will just be mopping the corridor and dusting. Delaney walks over to the first door on the right. There is a hatch on the door. Delaney slowly slides it open and beckons Lisa over. She peers inside. The cell is very basic, white walls with the only furniture being an uncomfortable looking bed and a toilet without a seat. There are thick iron bars on one small window. A skinny man in his thirties sits on a basic bed in a white vest, rocking back and forth. He has wild hair and a scraggly beard.
DELANEY: That's Jerry Kimble. He was convicted of stabbing a young mother forty-nine times in front of her two year-old son, then killing and sexually assaulting a woman before smothering her four-year-old daughter. They call him the Green Chain Rapist. He was in Sing Sing but was certified insane and his lawyer got him transferred here. He doesn't make any noise or fuss, but he is a dangerous man. Especially towards women. This next inmate is even worse. Delaney slides the hatch shut and walks over to the next door. He slowly slides open the hatch and Lisa peers inside. Another basic white cell with only a bed and toilet. A man stands in the centre of the room with his hands behind his back. His hair is slicked back, as jet black as the eyes that stare at Lisa. He smiles. Delaney slides the hatch That's Dennis Palmer. Also known as The Long Island Cannibal. He was abused as a child so his targets were always paedophiles and rapists. He'd track them down and torture them. He would eat parts of their body while they were still That's horrible.
DELANEY: That's Dennis Palmer. Also known as The Long Island Cannibal. He was abused as a child so his targets were always paedophiles and rapists. He'd track them down and torture them. He would eat parts of their body while they were still That's horrible.
LISA: That's horrible.
DELANEY: The most horrible thing is that a lot of the public thought he was a Delaney walks over to a door on the opposite side of the hallway. He slides open the hatch.
DELANEY: Sadie Krenwinkel. Lisa looks inside. Inside the basic cell a woman sits cross legged on her bed. She has long flowing black hair, intense eyes and a pentagram carved into her forehead. She looks up and smiles at Lisa. Delaney slides the hatch shut.
LISA: What's her deal?
DELANEY: She was a member of a Witchcraft cult. They kidnapped six people for a demonic ritual. Five were killed but one got away and led police to the cult. She turned her trial into a circus, talking about lots of crazy stuff. The media enjoyed it but she got certified insane by the court. She's been around a few institutions since. Now she's here.
LISA: Some strange stories here.
DELANEY: Well those aren't the strangest.
LISA: This last patient is the strangest Delaney walks over to the last door on the left. He slides open the hatch. A singular shaft of light coming from a tiny barred window barely penetrates the darkness of the cell. Lisa peers inside to see a man sat in the shadows.
DELANEY: This last patient is the strangest Delaney walks over to the last door on the left. He slides open the hatch. A singular shaft of light coming from a tiny barred window barely penetrates the darkness of the cell. Lisa peers inside to see a man sat in the shadows.
DELANEY: This is our resident John Doe. Sometimes we have people with
LISA: Why is he down here?
DELANEY: They first brought him in about six months ago. No one knows where he came from, he literally just turned up late one night. An orderly found him wandering the grounds. First of all he was like Missus Hardesty upstairs-catatonic. Then a few weeks later he started to respond to Doctor Mixter and the nurses through facial expressions and gestures. But soon, he got violent. Very violent. He'd have bursts of rage and beat other patients. One day he appeared to have a seizure and collapsed. A young doctor tried to take his vital signs. Patient X here throttled him so hard he crushed his larynx. It took six orderlies to restrain him. Now they won't even let him out for the obligatory hour a day exercise. We still don't know who he is.
LISA: Oh God. Delaney stares at Lisa.
DELANEY: God has nothing to do with this Delaney slams the hatch shut. Lisa looks disturbed.
DELANEY: I haven't put you off have I?
LISA: I guess not. it's just a lot to take in. I've obviously never been around stuff like this before.
DELANEY: This is the reality of this place. We don't deal with these people directly but we may have to clean up their mess. If you can't handle
LISA: I'm not a quitter.
LISA: Ooh, you made me jump! Should you be out of bed this late?
GIRL: I don't know. The girl has flowing blonde hair and an angelic face, yet there is a haunting sadness in her eyes.
LISA: I don't think you should be.
GIRL: Do you want to play with me?
LISA: I'd love to sweetheart, but it's very late now. I think you better go back to bed.
GIRL: The girl walks away.
LISA: Lisa turns around to see Delaney standing there.
DELANEY: Sorry, I didn't mean to startle It's okay. Lisa rubs her head.
LISA: It's okay. Lisa rubs her head.
DELANEY: Are you okay?
LISA: Yeah, just hurt that's all!
DELANEY: I'll live.
LISA: I'll live.
DELANEY: Do you want to grab a coffee?
LISA: CUT TO:
DELANEY: Did you change the bins in the Day Good. I've got a light bulb to change in Room Twelve upstairs soon. We're making good time.
LISA: Good. I've got a light bulb to change in Room Twelve upstairs soon. We're making good time.
DELANEY: Good. I've got a light bulb to change in Room Twelve upstairs soon. We're making good time.
LISA: Cool. It's funny, I never thought I'd get this job. The interview didn't go well!
DELANEY: Doctor Mixter told me you were the only person he interviewed for the Yeah. I'm sure he felt you were right for the job and didn't need to interview anyone else.
LISA: Yeah. I'm sure he felt you were right for the job and didn't need to interview anyone else.
DELANEY: Yeah. I'm sure he felt you were right for the job and didn't need to interview anyone else.
LISA: Lisa looks down at a distinctive tattoo on Delaney's wrist.
LISA: Nice tattoo. Delaney pulls his sleeve down to cover it up.
DELANEY: Oh yeah. I forget I have it What does it mean?
LISA: What does it mean?
DELANEY: Well. it represents a lot of wrong turns in my younger years.
LISA: Like what? Delaney doesn't answer and takes a long sip of coffee.
LISA: Sorry, I didn't mean to pry.
DELANEY: It's okay. Let's just say the past is better left there.
LISA: Fair enough.
DELANEY: So how is the first night going for Not bad. I ran into a young girl in the hallway earlier. Sweet little girl, she was only about twelve or thirteen. I told her to go back to bed. I guess they don't lock the kids in at night huh? Delaney appears confused.
LISA: Not bad. I ran into a young girl in the hallway earlier. Sweet little girl, she was only about twelve or thirteen. I told her to go back to bed. I guess they don't lock the kids in at night huh? Delaney appears confused.
DELANEY: You sure it was a young girl of that age?
LISA: Yeah definitely. She was carrying a teddy bear. She was about thirteen at the most.
DELANEY: Umm. okay.
LISA: Well. there are no children of that age here.
DELANEY: Well. there are no children of that age here.
LISA: In fact, there are no children of any age in this place. I think our youngest patient is about twenty.
DELANEY: In fact, there are no children of any age in this place. I think our youngest patient is about twenty.
LISA: You're kidding right?
DELANEY: No, I'm serious.
LISA: Then who was that girl in the Delaney contemplates for a moment.
DELANEY: You sure you saw a girl that young?
LISA: I'm positive.
DELANEY: I better tell the orderlies. This is no place for a little girl to 29.INT. WARD B ­ LATER Lisa is polishing a table. Delaney walks in with HARDCASTLE,a well built man with a skinhead and visible tattoos on his arms.
LISA: Did you find her?
DELANEY: So you're the one who saw the little girl huh?
HARDCASTLE: So you're the one who saw the little girl huh?
LISA: You sure you saw a little girl?
HARDCASTLE: You sure you saw a little girl?
LISA: Of course.
HARDCASTLE: Well I've had to pull staff off other wards to search this goddamn place top to bottom. We found That's strange.
LISA: That's strange.
HARDCASTLE: A big fucking inconvenience is what it is! Do me a favour, the next time you think you see something be absolutely sure before you go running to Jumpsuit here! I ain't got time to be running around this place looking for shit that isn't there! You understand??
LISA: Hardcastle exits. Lisa looks embarrassed.
LISA: Don't worry about it. Better safe than sorry.
DELANEY: Don't worry about it. Better safe than sorry.
DELANEY: Hey, can you do me a favour?
LISA: Can you empty the rubbish in Doctor Mixter's office? I've got to check the boiler, there's been complaints about the heating not working.
DELANEY: Can you empty the rubbish in Doctor Mixter's office? I've got to check the boiler, there's been complaints about the heating not working.
LISA: No problem. Lisa grabs a roll of bin bags from the shelf.
LISA: Doctor Mixter? Hello? She knocks again. No answer. Lisa tentatively turns the handle. The door slowly creaks open. The office is empty. Lisa walks in.
PEMBERTON: What the hell are you doing in Uh. I was just emptying the Funny, I don't remember Doctor Mixter keeping the garbage in the filing cabinet.
LISA: Uh. I was just emptying the Funny, I don't remember Doctor Mixter keeping the garbage in the filing cabinet.
PEMBERTON: Funny, I don't remember Doctor Mixter keeping the garbage in the filing cabinet.
LISA: Look I. it was just open and I . I dunno.
PEMBERTON: Well, y'know I'm gonna have to report this.
LISA: Oh please don't, I didn't see anything I just opened it. Pemberton smiles.
PEMBERTON: Well new girl, it's hospital policy to report this kind of thing.
LISA: But I've only just got this job and I really need it. Pemberton looks her up and down.
PEMBERTON: Perhaps we can come to some What do you mean?
LISA: What do you mean?
PEMBERTON: Well, I'd be doing you a big favour if I kept this to myself. So perhaps you can do me a favour.
LISA: What kind of favour?
PEMBERTON: A blow job. Lisa's face contorts with disgust.
LISA: You're disgusting! Lisa tries to leave the room but Pemberton stands in her Oh come on, I bet you'd love it.
PEMBERTON: Oh come on, I bet you'd love it.
LISA: Look, you better get out of my way or I'm going to report you for sexual harassment.
PEMBERTON: You've been working here for five minutes. You really think Doctor Mixter is gonna believe a fucking cleaner over a medical Pemberton spins around. Delaney is stood in the door way.
DELANEY: Pemberton spins around. Delaney is stood in the door way.
DELANEY: Leave her alone. Pemberton laughs.
PEMBERTON: She ain't no prisoner here! I was just talking, what's the problem?
DELANEY: No problem. Lisa, come with me, we've got a job up on Ward B. A grateful Lisa brushes past Pemberton and exits the room. Delaney glares at Pemberton for a moment before leaving the room. Pemberton smirks.
DELANEY: You okay?
LISA: I'm fine. It was just a little bit intimidating, y'know?
DELANEY: Pemberton can be like that. He works nights with that other son- of-a-bitch Hardcastle. They like to throw their weight around. You'll get used to it.
LISA: People like that shouldn't be in charge of patients.
DELANEY: Let's get a coffee.
LISA: You sure love your break times! Delaney laughs.
DELANEY: I like to pace myself! Lisa smiles.
LISA: Missus Hardesty, you scared me! What are you doing up at this time? No response from the catatonic pensioner.
LISA: Sorry, I forgot you don't talk. I'll just go and get an orderly. Lisa heads for the exit. Missus Hardesty's head turns to look at her and her mouth opens. An unnaturally deep voice
MRS HARDESTY: You're going to die in here. Lisa stops in her tracks. She slowly turns to face Mrs Hardesty, who stares blankly into space.
LISA: What did you say? Lisa stares at her but there is no response.
LISA: I'll. I'll go get an orderly.
LISA: Well look who it is, Miss Sexual Bite me. Hardcastle laughs.
PEMBERTON: Well look who it is, Miss Sexual Bite me. Hardcastle laughs.
LISA: Bite me. Hardcastle laughs.
PEMBERTON: What are you laughing at?
HARDCASTLE: This one's got a big mouth! First ordering a search of the hospital for a little girl, now she's busting your balls!
LISA: Look, I don't want any trouble. I just came to tell you there's a patient whose out of their room in Ward B.
HARDCASTLE: You won't get no trouble from me, I'm a professional. Unlike this useless bag of bones.
PEMBERTON: Fuck you! Hardcastle walks down the hallways with Lisa. He looks back at Pemberton with a shit eating grin.
HARDCASTLE: Catch you later sweetie. Pemberton raises his middle finger.
HARDCASTLE: Where is this patient huh?
LISA: She was right there, in that chair.
HARDCASTLE: Missus Hardesty.
LISA: Missus Hardesty.
HARDCASTLE: Missus Hardesty?
LISA: Yeah. She even spoke to me! Hardcastle bursts out laughing.
HARDCASTLE: Missus Hardesty was here and she spoke to you?
LISA: Just a second. Hardcastle steps out into the hallway. A few moments later Hardcastle re-enters the day room with Pemberton.
HARDCASTLE: Just a second. Hardcastle steps out into the hallway. A few moments later Hardcastle re-enters the day room with Pemberton.
HARDCASTLE: The new girl here says that Missus Hardesty was just sat in that chair. Says she even spoke to her. Pemberton chuckles.
LISA: Look I know she's supposed to be catatonic but I swear she said something to me!
PEMBERTON: That's not the strange thing, What do you mean?
LISA: What do you mean?
PEMBERTON: Missus Hardesty died this morning. The blood drains from Lisa's face.
LISA: But I could have sworn.
HARDCASTLE: Listen newbie, how about you just get on with the cleaning and stay off the crack pipe. Okay, honey Pemberton and Hardcastle both laugh and leave the room.
LISA: Lisa looks around. The hallway is empty. She walks forward and turns the corner just in time to see the young girl, carrying a teddy bear, push open the door. She enters the staircase that leads down to Ward X.
LISA: Little girl, wait! Lisa drops her brush and rushes forward. She throws open the 41.INT. STAIRCASE ­ CONTINUOUS Lisa looks down and sees the young girl at the bottom of the staircase, heading for the entrance to Ward X.
LISA: Don't go in there! Lisa rushes down the stairs after her.
LISA: Little girl? Lisa slowly walks down the hallway, passing the cell doors. She can hear whispering. Lisa is drawn to the last door on the left. She approaches with caution. Stood in front of the door she slowly slides the hatch open and peers inside. John Doe sits in the corner, cloaked in shadow. Lisa peers down and in the centre of the floor, illuminated by a single shaft of light from the small window, is a TEDDY BEAR. Lisa slides the hatch shut and walks backwards. She is seriously unnerved. As she steps back from the door she hears a whispering from Kimble's cell. She edges closer to his cell door and listens.
LISA'S MOTHER: Don't you grieve for me?
LISA: Of course I do. Suddenly tears of BLOOD run down Lisa's cheeks. Lisa's mother reaches out a hand. Lisa stretches her arm out to grab her mother's hand. Everything is in slow motion, it seems to take Lisa forever to reach her mother's hand. Suddenly a BLACK GLOVED HAND grabs her outstretched arm. She turns to see a HOODED FIGURE, face shrouded in darkness, standing next to her. A deep voice echoes around the church:
FIGURE: Kill them. Kill them all.
DELANEY: Okay, next thing is mopping the floor in Ward X.
LISA: Umm. could you do that?
DELANEY: I dunno. I just need a break.
LISA: I dunno. I just need a break.
DELANEY: Does Ward X frighten you?
LISA: A little.
DELANEY: That's normal, it frightens me sometimes. But I've got to go up to a patient's room in Ward A. Apparently they've had a little accident. Surely you wouldn't prefer to clean that up?
LISA: Well. maybe not.
DELANEY: I know Ward X is a scary place. But you'll get used to it.
LISA: I can hear them talking. It's kinda I know, I hear that too when I'm down there. But trust me, once you get used to it things will get 49.INT. WARD X ­ LATER The door creaks open. Lisa looks nervous. She walks in with her mop and bucket and heads to the end of the corridor. She begins mopping the floor. As she mops past Sadie's cell she hears a knock on the inside of the cell door.
DELANEY: I know, I hear that too when I'm down there. But trust me, once you get used to it things will get 49.INT. WARD X ­ LATER The door creaks open. Lisa looks nervous. She walks in with her mop and bucket and heads to the end of the corridor. She begins mopping the floor. As she mops past Sadie's cell she hears a knock on the inside of the cell door.
SADIE: I can hear you out there.
SADIE: I've been talking to your mother Lisa stops dead in her tracks. She looks back at the cell She's here with me Lisa. She's told me all about you. Lisa walks over to the cell door.
SADIE: She's here with me Lisa. She's told me all about you. Lisa walks over to the cell door.
SADIE: I know you're out there Lisa. Talk to me.
LISA: What. what do you expect me to Perhaps you can tell me all about the summer trips to Key West with your mother? Those were your favourite memories of your mother weren't they? Or perhaps you'd prefer to tell me about when you sat at your mother's bed side for six months, watching on helplessly as the cancer ravaged her body and sucked the life out of her? Lisa is horrified. She is shaking.
SADIE: Perhaps you can tell me all about the summer trips to Key West with your mother? Those were your favourite memories of your mother weren't they? Or perhaps you'd prefer to tell me about when you sat at your mother's bed side for six months, watching on helplessly as the cancer ravaged her body and sucked the life out of her? Lisa is horrified. She is shaking.
LISA: How. how do you know all this?
SADIE: Because your mother is speaking to me from the flames of hell!
LISA: You sick fuck! Tears stream down Lisa's face.
SADIE: She has a message for you Lisa. Want to hear it?
SADIE: Want the message?
LISA: What is it? There is a pause for a moment before an unnaturally deep inhuman voice emerges from Sadie's throat on the other side of the cell door:
SADIE: GET OUT!! A distraught Lisa rushes towards the exit.
GET OUT!!: A distraught Lisa rushes towards the exit.
DELANEY: What's wrong Lisa?
LISA: I'm not going down to Ward X again, I'm really sorry I just can't handle it down there!
DELANEY: Okay, just calm down okay. Tell me what happened.
LISA: They say things to me through the doors. Horrible things!
DELANEY: I know, they've done it to me too.
LISA: But that woman Sadie, she says things she couldn't possibly know about me.
DELANEY: Like what? Lisa checks herself.
LISA: I sound crazy don't I? Delaney smiles.
DELANEY: No. This place just gets under your skin sometimes.
LISA: I'm starting to wonder if I'm losing my mind.
DELANEY: Well it's not healthy to think too much about what those crazy son-of- a-bitches say. Believe me you don't want them inside your head.
LISA: It's hard to keep them out Listen, take a break from Ward X for a while. I'll go down there for the next week or so.
DELANEY: Listen, take a break from Ward X for a while. I'll go down there for the next week or so.
LISA: I'm really sorry about this, I didn't think it would effect me so Don't worry, it gets to everyone at first. But the last thing I want is for you to dread coming to work. Delaney puts his hand on Lisa's shoulder in a comforting Thank you. I really appreciate Delaney smiles.
DELANEY: Don't worry, it gets to everyone at first. But the last thing I want is for you to dread coming to work. Delaney puts his hand on Lisa's shoulder in a comforting Thank you. I really appreciate Delaney smiles.
LISA: Thank you. I really appreciate Delaney smiles.
DELANEY: No problem.
PEMBERTON: What's with all the fucking racket Sorry to bother you Mister Pemberton. But I wondered if it would be possible to get some medical attention? Palmer holds up his arm and it's been slashed open. Blood pours from the wound.
PALMER: Sorry to bother you Mister Pemberton. But I wondered if it would be possible to get some medical attention? Palmer holds up his arm and it's been slashed open. Blood pours from the wound.
PEMBERTON: Now how the hell did that happen? Palmer holds up a makeshift knife.
PALMER: I believe it was this rather crude weapon that did the damage.
PEMBERTON: Jesus Christ Palmer! Now put the weapon on the floor and back away. Palmer obliges with a smile on his face. Pemberton unhooks a truncheon from his waist belt.
PEMBERTON: Put your hands on your fucking head and face the wall! Now!! Palmer willingly follows the instructions. Pemberton takes a set of keys from his belt and unlocks the cell.
PEMBERTON: I'm coming in dipshit, one fucking move from you and I'll cave your fucking skull in! You understand??
PALMER: As you wish Mister Pemberton.
PEMBERTON: Don't you fucking move!! A nervous Pemberton fumbles at his belt, trying to unhook a pair of handcuffs. Palmer slowly starts to back into him.
PEMBERTON: I said don't fucking move! Palmer moves faster. Pemberton swings for him but Palmer ducks it and spins around, pushing Pemberton into the wall knocking him to the floor. Palmer aims a swift and savage stamp at Pemberton's head. His skull crushes against the cold hard floor. Blood spatters all over the white cell.
PALMER: I'm terribly sorry about this. Palmer reaches down, takes Pemberton's keys and exits the 55.EXT. WARD X ­ CONTINUOUS Palmer stands at the entrance to Kimble's cell. He selects the key marked with the corresponding cell number. Palmer puts it into the keyhole and opens the door.
PALMER: Good evening Mister Kimble
HARDCASTLE: Pemberton? Pemberton, what's taking you so long man?? No response. Hardcastle rushes down the steps.
HARDCASTLE: A SCREAM emerges from the next cell. Hardcastle rushes over to Kimble's cell door. Five orderlies rush onto the Ward.
HARDCASTLE: We got a major code six over here! The orderlies rush to Hardcastle's side, truncheons at the ready. Hardcastle puts a key in the lock and prepares to open Kimble's cell.
HARDCASTLE: Stay alert! Hardcastle turns the key and kicks open the door. They are met by the sight of KIMBLE's corpse positioned upright on the toilet. There is a hole in his head with part of his BRAIN seeping out. Palmer stands next to him, with blood on his lips and a plastic spoon in his hand. He smiles, blood covering his teeth.
PALMER: Good evening gentleman. I believe we will be one short at roll call tomorrow morning. Hardcastle and the orderlies charge Palmer. He doesn't resist as they viscously tackle him to the ground.
ORDERLY #1: Do we need to put the bit in his No. We're not giving him the methohexital either. The orderly places electrodes either side of Palmer' head. He then turns the dial on the ECT device up to full power. Palmer SCREAMS as he violently convulses, salivating heavily from his mouth. Suddenly the saliva turns to blood as he bites his own tongue off. Lisa is horrified as she watches the orderlies laugh as Palmer experiences a severe seizure. POV Shot: Someone is approaching Lisa as she crouches in front of the door. A hand reaches out and GRABS her by the hair,YANKING her to her feet. Lisa SCREAMS. She turns to see Hardcastle standing in front of her. He invades her personal space in an intimidating manner.
ORDERLY #2: No. We're not giving him the methohexital either. The orderly places electrodes either side of Palmer' head. He then turns the dial on the ECT device up to full power. Palmer SCREAMS as he violently convulses, salivating heavily from his mouth. Suddenly the saliva turns to blood as he bites his own tongue off. Lisa is horrified as she watches the orderlies laugh as Palmer experiences a severe seizure. POV Shot: Someone is approaching Lisa as she crouches in front of the door. A hand reaches out and GRABS her by the hair,YANKING her to her feet. Lisa SCREAMS. She turns to see Hardcastle standing in front of her. He invades her personal space in an intimidating manner.
HARDCASTLE: What the fuck are you doing??
LISA: I just heard something so I . I was just curious.
HARDCASTLE: What are you seeing in there?
LISA: Oh nothing, I didn't see anything.
HARDCASTLE: You make sure it stays that way. That guy is a fucking menace and he deserves everything he gets. So you don't talk to Mixter or anyone else about anything you've seen in there. You understand?
LISA: I won't say anything.
HARDCASTLE: Good. Now don't you got some cleaning to do somewhere?
LISA: Of course. Lisa walks down the hallway. Hardcastle's eyes burn into the back of her head.
LISA: I'm so sorry I'm running late Nanc!
NANCY: Don't worry about it, have a seat. A latte yeah?
LISA: Good, I've ordered it. They'll bring it over soon.
YEAH: Good, I've ordered it. They'll bring it over soon.
NANCY: Good, I've ordered it. They'll bring it over soon.
LISA: Lisa looks pale. Black bags under her eyes.
NANCY: God hun, you look like shit!
LISA: Oh thanks!
NANCY: Sorry, I didn't mean to be blunt but you do. The night shifts getting to ya?
LISA: The whole job's getting to me. My body clock's all out of whack but it's not just that. There's something seriously wrong with that What do you mean? A waitress brings over the Latte and places it in front of Lisa proceeds to put four sugars in her coffee.
NANCY: What do you mean? A waitress brings over the Latte and places it in front of Lisa proceeds to put four sugars in her coffee.
LISA: Lisa proceeds to put four sugars in her coffee.
NANCY: Wow, you like a little coffee with your sugar?
LISA: I figure it'll wake me up a little.
NANCY: So what's wrong with the place?
LISA: A lot of things. The way they run things for starters, the orderlies are complete bastards.
NANCY: They usually are in those places.
LISA: Some of the patients are extremely You haven't been hurt by anyone have you?
NANCY: You haven't been hurt by anyone have you?
LISA: No, nothing like that. Some of the things they say though. it's pretty frightening. The weirdest thing is. Oh I dunno, maybe it's just me. I wonder if I'm seeing What do you mean?
NANCY: What do you mean?
LISA: I think the place might be haunted. Either that or I'm losing my mind.
NANCY: Well I wouldn't be surprised if it was haunted.
LISA: What do you mean?
NANCY: I told my father about your new Well, y'know they only built that Asylum a couple of years ago?
LISA: Well, y'know they only built that Asylum a couple of years ago?
NANCY: Well, y'know they only built that Asylum a couple of years ago?
LISA: He says it was built on the site of One Twelve Ocean Avenue.
NANCY: He says it was built on the site of One Twelve Ocean Avenue.
LISA: What's that?
NANCY: You never heard of it?
LISA: It was a famous house. Or should I say infamous. Some guy shot his whole family there back in the seventies. Parents, brothers, sisters. Wiped out his entire family with a shotgun. Then the next owners of the house only lasted there about a month. They said they were driven from the house by evil spirits. The house became known around the world. That's why the recent owners sold the land, they had enough of all the media interest and constant tourists. Have you seriously never heard of the Amityville horror I vaguely remember hearing some stuff a while ago, but I never really took it in. I honestly didn't realise that the hospital was on the same land.
NANCY: It was a famous house. Or should I say infamous. Some guy shot his whole family there back in the seventies. Parents, brothers, sisters. Wiped out his entire family with a shotgun. Then the next owners of the house only lasted there about a month. They said they were driven from the house by evil spirits. The house became known around the world. That's why the recent owners sold the land, they had enough of all the media interest and constant tourists. Have you seriously never heard of the Amityville horror I vaguely remember hearing some stuff a while ago, but I never really took it in. I honestly didn't realise that the hospital was on the same land.
LISA: I vaguely remember hearing some stuff a while ago, but I never really took it in. I honestly didn't realise that the hospital was on the same land.
NANCY: Yup, right on the spot where the house was demolished. You really think the place is haunted?
LISA: Either that or I'm going crazy.
NANCY: Well you're not crazy, hun. Perhaps the stories about hauntings at the house were true. Maybe the house is gone but the spirits stuck around.
LISA: You believe in ghosts?
NANCY: I dunno, never seen one. But I like to think I'm open minded. Plus you're the most intelligent girl I know. If you say you've seen something, I believe you. Lisa smiles.
LISA: Thanks Nanc.
NANCY: So what are you gonna do? Are you gonna quit?
LISA: Part of me says I should. There's a lot about the place that frightens me. But I dunno. I think I've seen too much to be able to just walk away and forget the place.
NANCY: If I was you I'd just walk away. Who wants to work at a place that frightens them?
LISA: Well I need the money for starters. But now it feels like I need to find out more.
NANCY: Maybe you are crazy after all!
BUTCH: Hey Pop.
RONALD SENIOR: You come to help?
BUTCH: I'm going out.
RONALD SENIOR: Again? Boy, you better not be turning up for work tomorrow like a goddamn zombie again.
BUTCH: Yeah, yeah Pop.
RONALD SENIOR: Don't yeah yeah me boy. You're on a last warning.
BUTCH: I seen you got Mark a wheelchair. Mom says it cost five hundred What of it?
RONALD SENIOR: What of it?
BUTCH: Well how come you're spending five hundred bucks on Mark and I gotta come beg you for money all the time What's the matter with you, boy? Your brother's broken his leg, he needs that wheelchair.
RONALD SENIOR: What's the matter with you, boy? Your brother's broken his leg, he needs that wheelchair.
BUTCH: Well I need money too!
RONALD SENIOR: Butch, you get a wage from the auto dealership every Friday and it's gone by Monday. Why is that?
BUTCH: I gotta live.
RONALD SENIOR: What you spending that money on huh? Cos it ain't rent or food. You get everything you want for nothing 'round here. I know what you're really doing with that money.
BUTCH: You don't know shit!
RONALD SENIOR: Boy, you better shut that mouth of Ronald Senior stands there, axe in hand, eye-balling his This ain't over. Butch storms back towards the house. Ronald Senior brings the axe forcefully down on a piece of wood, splitting it cleanly in half.
BUTCH: This ain't over. Butch storms back towards the house. Ronald Senior brings the axe forcefully down on a piece of wood, splitting it cleanly in half.
BUTCH: Hey Mick.
MICK: Butch, I told you man, you can't get no shit on lay-away any more. Your credit's all used up. Butch pulls a wad of money out of the paper bag.
BUTCH: You accept cash? Mick smiles.
MICK: My man! Come on in.
RONALD SENIOR: Nineteen thousand dollars boy! Nineteen thousand!!
BUTCH: RONALD SENIOR
RONALD SENIOR: You stole that fuckin' money from the auto dealership!!
BUTCH: What the fuck you talking about?? I was robbed!! Didn't Brigante tell you huh? Some fuckers car jacked me Pop. I told the police about it!
RONALD SENIOR: You expect me to believe that, boy? You think I'm fuckin' stupid??
BUTCH: I ain't saying your stupid pop, I'm telling you the truth! I was robbed god-damn it! Ronald Senior grabs Butch by the scruff of the neck and SLAMS him against the door. LOUISE DEFEO rushes in.
LOUISE: What the hell's going on??
RONALD SENIOR: Our son's a fuckin' junkie thief, that's what's going on!! He robbed the fucking dealership!!
BUTCH: Don't listen to him Ma, I ain't done nothing!! Ronald Senior and Butch fall to the floor and start Stop it!! Stop it now!! Louise attempts to pull Ronald Senior off Butch. Her nails dig into her husband's neck and draw blood. An enraged Ronald Senior grabs his wife's arms as she starts to slap him. Butch scrambles to his feet and rushes down the hallway. Ronald Senior remonstrates with Louise who is still trying to slap him.
LOUISE: Stop it!! Stop it now!! Louise attempts to pull Ronald Senior off Butch. Her nails dig into her husband's neck and draw blood. An enraged Ronald Senior grabs his wife's arms as she starts to slap him. Butch scrambles to his feet and rushes down the hallway. Ronald Senior remonstrates with Louise who is still trying to slap him.
RONALD SENIOR: Why do you always have to get involved huh?? You've always been too soft on that boy!!
LOUISE: Don't you touch him!!
RONALD SENIOR: He needs some fuckin' discipline!!
LOUISE: Stay away from him!! Suddenly Ronald Senior feels cold metal pressed against the back of his head. Louise SCREAMS and steps back. Ronald Senior freezes. Ronald Senior slowly turns to see Butch, his eyes bloodshot and his face emotionless, aiming a MARLIN RIFLE at his head.
BUTCH: I've had enough of you fat man!!
LOUISE: Ronnie, don't!! Please!! Ronald Senior's trembles with fear as he stares into his son's cold eyes. Butch places his finger on the trigger.
LOUISE: Butch pulls the trigger. Louise SCREAMS. The gun JAMS. Ronald Senior breathes a sigh of relief. Butch lowers the gun and storms off towards the basement. Louise embraces Ronald Senior, who appears to be in shock.
FIGURE: Kill them before they kill you.
LISA: Do you know the history of this There's not much history. We've only been open a couple of years.
DELANEY: There's not much history. We've only been open a couple of years.
LISA: No, I mean the history of the land.
DELANEY: You mean. what was on the land before the hospital?
LISA: I know a bit about that.
DELANEY: I know a bit about that.
LISA: One Twelve Ocean Avenue. The Amityville haunted house.
DELANEY: Well I don't know that it was haunted. Lots of people think that's lies. I know about the kid that killed his family. That's I didn't know about it until a friend told me.
LISA: I didn't know about it until a friend told me.
DELANEY: Really? It's a famous case.
LISA: How come you never mentioned it?
DELANEY: You seem spooked already. I didn't want to make it worse.
LISA: Y'know why I'm spooked?
DELANEY: Because of the patients on Ward X.
LISA: It's not just that Delaney. I think this place is haunted. In fact, I'm sure of it.
DELANEY: You've seen something?
LISA: Remember I said I saw a little girl roaming the hallways here? I know who she is. She's one of the DeFeo children who were killed. You ever seen her?
DELANEY: To be honest I don't believe in all that ghost stuff.
LISA: To be honest I don't believe in all that ghost stuff.
DELANEY: To be honest I don't believe in all that ghost stuff.
LISA: Well I wasn't a huge believer, but I know what I've seen.
DELANEY: I believe that you've seen something. Some people are more open to that kind of thing, y'know? But me? I'm closed off to that extra terrestrial stuff.
LISA: Extra terrestrial is aliens.
DELANEY: Whatever it's called, I don't know.
LISA: So what do you believe in? Do you believe in God?
DELANEY: Serious questions tonight.
LISA: I'm just curious.
DELANEY: Why do you ask?
LISA: It's something I've been thinking about. How can evil exist in a
DELANEY: I don't believe that God is a bearded man who lives in the sky. Or that the Devil is a red demon with horns. I believe God and Satan are within all of us. God is our human side. Satan is our animal side. Whether we become good or evil depends which side of us we It's a frightening thing to believe that if God exists he is not powerful enough to stop evil.
LISA: It's a frightening thing to believe that if God exists he is not powerful enough to stop evil.
DELANEY: Free will in the hands of a person who feeds the Evil inside them. That's what frightens me. Lisa ponders for a moment.
LISA: Doctor Mixter must have known what stood on this land before the Of course he did. He bought the land and organised the demolition of the house himself.
DELANEY: Of course he did. He bought the land and organised the demolition of the house himself.
LISA: Why would he build on this land knowing the history of the place?
DELANEY: He's not superstitious. He's a doctor, they don't usually believe in those things. Amityville is full of local legends, going back even before the DeFeos.
LISA: Like what?
DELANEY: There's stories about the Native Americans being slaughtered on this land many years ago. Some people
LISA: I don't think that's true. If I've learnt anything from the patients on Ward X, it's that some people have a mind that works in a different way to other people. Those people who do bad things have fed the evil within them more than the good. It's not possession, it's sickness. Sickness of the soul.
DELANEY: I don't think that's true. If I've learnt anything from the patients on Ward X, it's that some people have a mind that works in a different way to other people. Those people who do bad things have fed the evil within them more than the good. It's not possession, it's sickness. Sickness of the soul.
LISA: I don't know what to think.
DELANEY: Just don't let your imagination run away with you Lisa. You're a person who feeds that good within you. Don't let this place feed the evil.
LISA: Hi, sorry to bother you but my name's Lisa Templeton. I rang yesterday to set up a meeting with Gloria Branco.
GLORIA: Yes, that's me.
LISA: Oh great! Thank you for agreeing to meet with me.
GLORIA: No problem, nice to meet you! I've set up a table in the back. I've
LISA: Thank you, that's great. Lisa follows Gloria to the back of the Library.
GLORIA: So you wanted to know about the history of Amityville dating back to the Native Americans?
LISA: Yes that's right. I'm writing a college paper and I had heard some rumours in the neighbourhood about Native Americans being killed on the land down on Oceans Avenue. Gloria's demeanour instantly turns from jovial to serious.
GLORIA: Well that area has quite a dark You mean the DeFeo murders at One Yes. Terrible business that. Those young children. Breaks my heart to think about such a tragedy.
LISA: You mean the DeFeo murders at One Yes. Terrible business that. Those young children. Breaks my heart to think about such a tragedy.
GLORIA: Yes. Terrible business that. Those young children. Breaks my heart to think about such a tragedy.
LISA: Yeah it's awful.
GLORIA: You know most of the town was very upset when they decided to build that mental institution on the land. That used to be a nice suburban neighbourhood, now there's this big eye sore there. We had a
LISA: So what about the native Americans? Is that story about them being killed on that land true?
GLORIA: There's something on that here. Gloria flips through one of the books.
GLORIA: Ah yes, here it is. ( Reading ) In the 18th Century there existed a group of Native Americans in Amityville known as "The Satchem Tribe" led by Satchem Takapausha, the Chief. The tribe had fled Salem in Massachusetts to escape persecution by the Christians who were persecuting members of the tribe because of their Witchcraft practices. These practices included a ritualistic human sacrifice of six people ( The significance of Six being related to the biblical number of man and creation ) in order to induce the spirit of their God, The Dark Master, who they believed manifested his powers through his devoted followers, giving them immortality. The hundred strong tribe settled in Amityville but were later chased off the land by local Christians. Satchem accused the Christians of not properly compensating his tribe for the land. A war started and the Christians hired a hunter called John Underhill from Salem. At the site where One Twelve Oceans Avenue was later built in Amityville, Underhill killed all of the tribe. The Indians were buried in a mass grave on the site. Before he died Satchem vowed revenge. According to local legend, Chief Satchem is believed to have subsequently haunted the land. Various parapsychologists and mediums have
LISA: So the legend has basis in historical fact?
GLORIA: CUT TO:
LISA: You told me the other night that you think evil is within us all. But do you think that people can be influenced by an evil that comes from outside of themselves?
DELANEY: Are you still thinking about this?
LISA: I guess I am yeah.
DELANEY: I worry that you're thinking too much. This place is getting to you.
LISA: There's something going on in this place. Something sinister. And I don't just mean the patients on Ward X. Have you not noticed that?
DELANEY: I've noticed some things.
LISA: Why haven't you said anything? Or done anything?
DELANEY: It's like the honey bee.
LISA: What do you mean?
DELANEY: The honey bee is fine when it's just flying from flower to flower. Then they think that a person is a threat and they sting them. They might leave a sting but the person will recover. The bee dies. So I ask myself. is it worth it? Delaney returns his attention to the cup of coffee in his hands as Lisa disappears into her own thoughts.
LISA: I know what you're doing. No response.
LISA: I've seen that blog. How are you getting access to the internet? Lisa slides open the hatch and looks inside. The cell is covered in lit candles with Sadie sat cross legged in the centre of the room.
LISA: Are you allowed to have all this stuff in your cell huh?
SADIE: The Dark Master is near. It's too late to stop it now. Tonight will behold a great becoming.
LISA: What's going to happen? You're planning on a human sacrifice aren't you?
SADIE: All good things to those who wait.
LISA: Tell me!! Sadie stares directly at Lisa with intense eyes. An unnaturally deep voice escapes her lips:
SADIE: Our time is at hand! Lisa slides the hatch shut. She walks over to the last door on the left. Lisa slides the hatch open and peers in. The resident John Doe sits in the shadows. Suddenly he sits forward and a bright shaft of daylight illuminates his face. Lisa is shocked to see a face she recognises from the internet article staring at her. The face of RONALD "BUTCH" DEFEO JUNIOUR. Lisa slams the hatch shut and backs down the hallway, her mind racing as fast as her pulse rate.
LISA: Doctor Mixter.
MIXTER: Oh Lisa, Hello. What brings you I just wondered if I could speak to you for a moment sir. It's very Of course, come in.
LISA: I just wondered if I could speak to you for a moment sir. It's very Of course, come in.
MIXTER: Of course, come in.
MIXTER: What can I do for you Lisa?
LISA: Well. what I'm going to tell you will sound really strange but I need to tell you.
MIXTER: Okay, go ahead.
LISA: Do you know the history of the land the hospital is built on?
MIXTER: What are you referring to exactly?
LISA: Well, first of all. The DeFeo murders and the infamous house that people said was haunted.
MIXTER: I am aware of the DeFeo murders yes. The hauntings. well I think it's common perception now that a lot of that was exaggerated by the Maybe. Are you aware of the history of the land dating back to the eighteenth century?
LISA: Maybe. Are you aware of the history of the land dating back to the eighteenth century?
MIXTER: No, I can't say that I am.
LISA: There were a group of Native Americans in Amityville known as "The Satchem Tribe". They were massacred by Christians after a dispute over the land.
MIXTER: Okay. I'm sure there's a point to all this?
LISA: Yes. Sadie Krenwinkel down on Ward X. She shares the beliefs of the Satchem Tribe. I have reason to believe that somehow she has access to the internet and Witchcraft paraphernalia and she's planning on a human sacrifice tonight to try and raise the God she believes in, The Dark Master, and become Mixter chuckles.
LISA: I'm serious.
MIXTER: Have you been reading up on Sadie? It's rather outlandish stuff isn't it? But I can assure you she has no access to the internet or anything Go on the internet and check out the Blog! She signs herself Sister Well that could be anyone called Sadie couldn't it?
LISA: Go on the internet and check out the Blog! She signs herself Sister Well that could be anyone called Sadie couldn't it?
MIXTER: Well that could be anyone called Sadie couldn't it?
LISA: Go down and search her cell!
MIXTER: I don't believe that will be necessary. The patients on Ward X spend twenty three hours a day in the cell. They get an hour of exercise in a small yard guarded by six of our staff. There's no way
LISA: Then someone is helping her get access to this stuff! Someone who works here! Please Doctor Mixter. Just check out her cell and speak to her. If I'm wrong about this and it's all just her delusions then fine. I'll accept that. But I had to tell you. You testified at her trial didn't you?
MIXTER: Yes I did. What are you implying?
LISA: Nothing. I just meant you know how dangerous she is.
MIXTER: Yes, I understand how dangerous she is and I appreciate you coming to express your concerns. One thing you need to bear in mind Lisa is that there are some very sick patients at this institution. We do our best to help those who can be helped but unfortunately the patients on Ward X are beyond help. Their personality disorders are too advanced, their delusions are too grandiose. I worry that perhaps you have been rather taken in by one of those delusions.
LISA: I know that it might sound like that. But can you check her cell and speak to her? Look at the blog on the internet, see if you can connect the IP number of the writer with a computer here at the Okay look. That does take time and resources I don't necessarily have. But as you've come to me with a concern of patient infraction and potential threat of violence, I am duty bound to investigate.
MIXTER: Okay look. That does take time and resources I don't necessarily have. But as you've come to me with a concern of patient infraction and potential threat of violence, I am duty bound to investigate.
LISA: Thank you.
MIXTER: In fact, I'll order a cell search immediately. Stay here for a moment, I'll be right back. Mixter exits. Lisa leans forward and a file on the desk catches her eye. She stands up and reaches over for it. Her NAME is on it. Lisa opens it up. Inside is a form Committing her to the hospital as a PATIENT. Lisa looks down and the reason stated is PARANOID DELUSION. The date on the form is November 13th. Today. Lisa slams the file shut and the office door opens. She turns to see Mixter stood there with Hardcastle and another orderly.
LISA: What the hell are you doing??
MIXTER: This is for your own good Lisa. You need treatment. The orderlies approach her. Lisa lashes out but the two men overpower her, grabbing her arms and then tripping her. She hits the floor with a thud. Mixter produces a syringe from behind his back.
MIXTER: This is for your own good Lisa.
LISA: Fuck you!!! Mixter plunges the needle into her neck. POV SHOT: Lisa looks up at Mixter and the orderlies and we FADE TO BLACK.
LISA: Let me out of here you sick fuck!!
MIXTER: Now Lisa, let's talk calmly or you will be sedated again. Mixter walks over and sits on the edge of the bed.
LISA: Why are you doing this?
MIXTER: You're having paranoid delusions. I'm also aware that you've been having disturbing visions.
LISA: I'm not having delusions, I know what I've seen!
MIXTER: Well you think you know. The human brain is a powerful thing and I'm sure you do believe what you've seen. But it's all in your mind Lisa, it's not reality. You're a very sick girl and you need You do this to all your staff huh? The minute we speak out we get fucking committed??
LISA: You do this to all your staff huh? The minute we speak out we get fucking committed??
MIXTER: Staff? You were never staff here Lisa. You're a patient here. You've always been a patient here. Lisa appears confused.
LISA: No, no. You're lying to me, I know who I am! I KNOW WHO I AM!!
MIXTER: I'm afraid not my dear. You've always been with us here. Initially as an out patient but now the delusions have progressed I feel it's time for you to become a full time resident.
LISA: But. but.
MIXTER: Look, I understand it's a lot to process now. I'll leave you to think about it and then we'll begin counselling sessions tomorrow.
LISA: Lisa sobs.
MIXTER: Listen, how about I take this straight jacket off so you're more Thank you.
LISA: Thank you.
MIXTER: First you must take this. It will help you sleep. Mixter hands Lisa a red pill and a bottle of water. She takes the pill and pops it in her mouth before taking a gulp of water.
MIXTER: Good girl. I know it's a lot to take in but together we'll get through this. Now I'm going to take your restraint off. Remember though, if you're violent then I promise you it will go straight back on. Okay?
LISA: Mixter unties the straight jacket at the back and lifts it
MIXTER: That better?
LISA: Yes. Thank you.
MIXTER: No problem. I'm going to leave you get some rest now. Tomorrow we start the healing process. Mixter exits. The echo of the steel door closing reverberates around the tiny cell. We hear Mixter's footsteps as he walks down the hallway. Lisa's upset demeanour disappears immediately. She spits the red pill into the palm of her hand.
SADIE: Adoni, Helumnay, Peenay, Adoni, Helumnay, Peenay, The gods do command thee from thy majesty oh mapulamun.
SADIE: We did it Elliot, we did it! Our time is at hand!! Immortality is Patient X raises the rifle and squeezes the trigger. The BLAST rips through the back of Sadie's head, blowing half of her face away. She is killed instantly and her lifeless corpse drops to the floor. Mixter smiles and leaves the 84.INT. CELL ­ SAME TIME Lisa has her ear pressed to the door. She can hear GUN SHOTS and SCREAMING. She starts to panic and rushes over to the small window. She slams her hand into the window but the glass doesn't break. The lock on the door snaps. Lisa slides down the wall, terrified. The door opens and DELANEY walks in. Lisa breathes a huge sigh of relief and rushes over, throwing her arms around him.
DELANEY: We need to get out of here! One of the patients is running around with a shot gun down on Ward X!
LISA: Delaney and Lisa run back the other way and turn the corner. Two orderlies, brandishing truncheons, are approaching.
LISA: Please help us!
DELANEY: The patients are loose!
ORDERLY #1: We'll take care of them.
LISA: Shouldn't we help them??
DELANEY: We need to save ourselves. Let them reap what they've sewn. Delaney grabs Lisa and they run down the hallway, as the patients beat the orderlies with their own truncheons.
ALLISON: Why don't you want to play with me? CRASH! A door at the other end of the hallway is kicked open. Patient X bursts through and aims the rifle. Lisa and Delaney rush back down the hallway. A BULLET HITS the wall just as they turn into an open doorway.
LISA: Hey mister, you need to get the hell out of here, there's a patient going crazy with a gun!! The man turns around. His face is weathered and his eyes are wild and bloodshot.
MAN: My.my skin's on too tight!
DELANEY: My skin is on too tight! Delaney grabs Lisa and they start ebbing past the man towards the door. The man is getting increasingly more agitated, scratching at his face.
MAN: My skin is on too tight! Delaney grabs Lisa and they start ebbing past the man towards the door. The man is getting increasingly more agitated, scratching at his face.
MAN: My skin's on too tight!! The man reaches into the pocket of his shorts and produces a My skin is on too tight!! The man STABS his cheek with the scalpel. Lisa SCREAMS! The man drags the scalpel around his face in one continuous motion, blood seeping from the circular gash. As Lisa and Delaney watch on in horror the man RIPS the skin off his face, exposing muscles and veins. His white vest and shorts are now saturated with blood. The man sighs with relief.
MAN: My skin is on too tight!! The man STABS his cheek with the scalpel. Lisa SCREAMS! The man drags the scalpel around his face in one continuous motion, blood seeping from the circular gash. As Lisa and Delaney watch on in horror the man RIPS the skin off his face, exposing muscles and veins. His white vest and shorts are now saturated with blood. The man sighs with relief.
MAN: That's much better. A horrified Lisa and Delaney rush towards the door and BURST through it.
LISA: Come on, hurry, please!! Delaney finds the right key. He checks the lock and realises that a key has been snapped off in it.
DELANEY: What, what??
LISA: What, what??
DELANEY: A fucking key's been snapped in the Delaney rushes to the reception desk and grabs a chair. He rushes over to a window next to the door and raises the chair. BANG! A bullet tears through his back and exits through his chest with an explosion of blood. Lisa SCREAMS! Delaney drops to his knees and Lisa rushes to his side. Patient X loads fresh cartridges in the rifle. Delaney is DEAD. Lisa runs down the hallway. Patient X takes aim. Just as Lisa bursts through a door, a bullet blasts apart one side of the frame.
LISA: Patient X reaches for the lock. Lisa dashes to the storage cupboard and ducks inside.
LISA: Lights out, you son-of-a-bitch!! BANG! The shot gun BLASTS a hole through Patient X's chest, blood splatters over Lisa. Suddenly a WHITE LIGHT fills the room and ALLISON DEFEO materialises. She is dressed in a clean white dress, her angelic complexion bears no wounds. Allison takes the hand of PATIENT X's corpse. The WHITE LIGHT swarms over Patient X's body and he rises to his feet. His head is now intact and he is dressed in a white robe. He looks at Allison and they share a peaceful smile. Allison walks with Patient X through a doorway filled with a blinding WHITE LIGHT. They disappear and the light slowly 96.INT. HALLWAY ­ HIGH HOPES HOSPITAL - LATER Lisa, covered in blood, walks through the hallway with the rifle by her side. She reaches the door to Doctor Mixter's office and kicks it open. Mixter is sat behind his desk, now dressed in his usual shirt and tie. Lisa aims the gun at Mixter whose hands are beneath the table.
LISA: Get your fucking hands up you sick INSERT SHOT: Mixter presses a red button beneath the desk. Mixter raises his hands.
MIXTER: I see we've dispensed with the usual pleasantries. Come in Lisa. Lisa enters, kicking the door shut behind her.
LISA: You gonna tell me it's all in my head now huh?? Wanna tell me I'm the crazy one??
MIXTER: Well maybe it is, maybe it isn't. How would you know?
LISA: Get the fuck out of my head you son-of-a-bitch! I know who I am and I know what I've seen! You're part of all of this. I know you are! You're the crazy one!!
MIXTER: You're the one holding the gun on a well respected doctor, my dear.
LISA: Why did you do this? Why??
MIXTER: You are part of a great becoming tonight. A rising of The Dark Master who blesses all of his followers with power and You fucking believe that do you?? Sounds like a bunch of bullshit to me! You're no better than those fucking fundamentalists who kill innocent people because they've twisted shit they've read in some Holy book. It's all shit!!
LISA: You fucking believe that do you?? Sounds like a bunch of bullshit to me! You're no better than those fucking fundamentalists who kill innocent people because they've twisted shit they've read in some Holy book. It's all shit!!
MIXTER: The plan for the becoming is almost complete. Just one more sacrifice, that's all we need tonight.
LISA: How about if I blow your fucking head off then huh?? Suddenly SIRENS can be heard outside. The screeching of car wheels. Mixter smiles. Lisa, still holding the gun at Mixter, shuffles over to the window and peers through the blinds. The car park is full of police cars. A dozen armed police officers rush towards the building. Lisa looks back to see Mixter chuckling.
LISA: What the fuck are you laughing at?
MIXTER: It's all falling into place.
LISA: The cops coming here? I'm gonna tell them everything about you and your little sick plan! They're gonna lock you up and throw away the key!!
MIXTER: If you say so. Outside they hear the police rushing down the hallway.
MIXTER: Tell me something Lisa, would it help your grief over your mother if you knew she was a slut?
LISA: What did you say??
MIXTER: Yes. That's why she's burning in Lisa, her teeth clenched, moves forward and places the business end of the rifle against Mixter's temple.
LISA: You shut the fuck about my mother, you don't know anything!!
MIXTER: I know that sometimes you wonder why you don't cry enough for her. I know you feel guilty for not doing more for her when she was alive. You feel guilty for moving on with
LISA: I have not forgotten about her!!
MIXTER: Face it Lisa, you never cared for her. You never cared for anyone but yourself. She's looking up from the bowels of hell now knowing that you never loved her! Tears stream down Lisa's face. She's crumbling.
LISA: SHUT UP!! SHUT UP!! She was a whore! Lisa HITS Mixter over the head with the butt of the rifle. He falls to the ground and looks up at a crazed Lisa.
MIXTER: She was a whore! Lisa HITS Mixter over the head with the butt of the rifle. He falls to the ground and looks up at a crazed Lisa.
MIXTER: Your mother's in hell and you don't Fuck you!! Lisa aims the rifle at Mixter's face. Suddenly the police burst in. Lisa spins around, the rifle still in her hands. POLICE OPEN FIRE! Her body is riddled with BULLETS and she falls to the floor in a blood soaked heap.
LISA: Fuck you!! Lisa aims the rifle at Mixter's face. Suddenly the police burst in. Lisa spins around, the rifle still in her hands. POLICE OPEN FIRE! Her body is riddled with BULLETS and she falls to the floor in a blood soaked heap.
PRESENTER: And we're back with our next guest. A year ago he was a survivor of the High Hopes Hospital mass murder when cleaner Lisa Templeton ran amok with a rifle, claiming six victims and injuring many others. Doctor Elliot Mixter has written a new book entitled 'Shattered Hopes' which provides an account of that fateful night as well as some background into the mind of the murderer. Doctor Mixter, good Mixter is sat opposite, in a very expensive suit.
MIXTER: Morning Katherine, how are you?
PRESENTER: I'm good thank you. So Doctor, can you tell us a little more about the Well, it features a blow by blow account of the evening. It was obviously a very harrowing experience and for me it was rather therapeutic to deal with my feelings about what happened in How has it affected the hospital Obviously we were all left very numb by events for a long time and I know a lot of people in the town felt we should close the institution. But that never occurred to me. I feel that people should be brought closer by tragedy and the Staff and I have definitely become closer, both as colleagues and friends, since the incident. That bond makes for a better
MIXTER: Well, it features a blow by blow account of the evening. It was obviously a very harrowing experience and for me it was rather therapeutic to deal with my feelings about what happened in How has it affected the hospital Obviously we were all left very numb by events for a long time and I know a lot of people in the town felt we should close the institution. But that never occurred to me. I feel that people should be brought closer by tragedy and the Staff and I have definitely become closer, both as colleagues and friends, since the incident. That bond makes for a better
PRESENTER: How has it affected the hospital Obviously we were all left very numb by events for a long time and I know a lot of people in the town felt we should close the institution. But that never occurred to me. I feel that people should be brought closer by tragedy and the Staff and I have definitely become closer, both as colleagues and friends, since the incident. That bond makes for a better
MIXTER: Obviously we were all left very numb by events for a long time and I know a lot of people in the town felt we should close the institution. But that never occurred to me. I feel that people should be brought closer by tragedy and the Staff and I have definitely become closer, both as colleagues and friends, since the incident. That bond makes for a better
PRESENTER: You mentioned there that some people wanted the place to close. I know many were also resistant to the opening of the institution in the first place given that it was built on the site of the infamous house, where Ronald DeFeo murdered his family in the seventies. I know a lot of people associated with that case were accused of exploiting it for their own ends. You've also faced some criticism for that, particularly as we heard last week that you have sold the movie rights to this book. How do you respond to that criticism?
MIXTER: Well I know that some people accuse me of hurting the memory of the victims but I feel I'm helping the memories of those involved live on. Granted, some victims were criminally insane but other victims were loyal staff who had families and I'm determined that they not be forgotten. Each staff member gets their own chapter in the book so that the readers can get a full picture of what wonderful people they were. I always say that all forms of media, whether it be books, newspapers, TV or movies, are a preservation of life. Our physical bodies may die but our images live on when we are famous. Our work and our passion is preserved, therefore it's as if our souls are preserved. Through all of these forms of media we are, in effect, immortal. Mixter looks straight into the camera and smiles.
CREDITS ROLL: THE END.
