AMOUR: Written by Michael Haneke
NEIGHBOR ): Wait Outside please. He signals to a police officer who herds the curious onlookers back out through the door.
POLICE OFFICER: ( to the superintendent, pointing to a pile of mail ) What's the date of the last letter?
SUPERINTENDENT: ( VERIFYING )
JANITOR: .no as far as I know. During the whole time, they had a nurse, but it's been a while since I last saw her. My wife has been. The plain-clothes detective enters the bedroom which is now accessible. Its windows are open and the draft makes the curtains billow into the room.
DOOR ): Did you open the windows? The firemen shake their heads. The PLAIN-CLOTHES DETECTIVE turns toward the big double bed placed against the back wall of the bedroom. On the right- hand bed, there's only the bare mattress. On the left-hand bed lies the partly decomposed body of an old woman. Where once there were eyes, now there are only gaping holes. The corpse has been neatly dressed and is adorned with flowers that have already dried out a little. On her chest is a SCENE 2 - White letters on a black background: THE CREDITS
GEORGES: They used a screwdriver or something like that.it doesn't look very professional.
ANNE: But who would do something like No idea. Why do people break in? Because they want to steal From us?
GEORGES: No idea. Why do people break in? Because they want to steal From us?
ANNE: From us?
GEORGES: ( laughs briefly out loud ) Hey, why not? If I thought about it, I could come up with at least three or four people we know who've been burgled. After having examined the outside of the second leaf of the double door, he comes in, closing the door behind him.
ANNE: What time is it? Can't we call the I'll do that tomorrow morning. Anyway, they didn't see anything. He unbuttons his overcoat and heads toward the large closet in the hallway.
GEORGES: I'll do that tomorrow morning. Anyway, they didn't see anything. He unbuttons his overcoat and heads toward the large closet in the hallway.
ANNE: Or the police?
GEORGES: Come on, give me your coat. She goes toward him, he takes her coat off and hangs it with his in the closet.
ANNE: Imagine if we were here, in our beds, and someone broke in.
GEORGES: Why should I imagine that?
ANNE: But it's terrible! I think I'd die of fright.
GEORGES: ( LAUGHING )
ANNE: I'm tired.
GEORGES: I still fancy a drink. He puts away his shoes with the others and slips on his slippers. Anne has gone into the bathroom.
GEORGES: They must have been professionals. As he passes in front of the bathroom, he stops and appears to be looking at Anne.
ANNE: After a while, the RINGING of a kitchen egg-timer leads us to the next scene.
GEORGES: ( on the phone ) What about next week? No but still, it would make sense to get it done soon. It might give people silly ideas. And anyway, it's too ugly to look at. Wednesday? What time? OK. Will you bring the paint with you too, to paint over it? But at least some primer.Yes, OK. Thank He hangs up.
ANNE: ( who comes back to the table with the egg ) I hope so. The last time, he kept us waiting for ages, if you ( laughs while acquiescing ) Yes, that's true. ( Reacting when she places the egg in his egg cup ) Thanks. If I call a regular professional, we'll still be waiting two months time.
GEORGES: ( laughs while acquiescing ) Yes, that's true. ( Reacting when she places the egg in his egg cup ) Thanks. If I call a regular professional, we'll still be waiting two months time.
ANNE: ( more to herself ) She has sat down. Looks straight ahead. He cracks open his egg, puts salt on it, eats.
GEORGES: The Frodons waited three days when their toilet was blocked. Not exactly pleasant. He eats. Wants to put on more salt, but the saltcellar is The saltcellar is empty. He looks up for an instant, as if he expected her to deal with it. As she doesn't react, he realizes the inappropriateness of such an expectation, gets up himself, heads for the kitchen cupboards and fills the salt cellar.
SILENCE: Finally he gets up, heads for the sink, turns on the tap, wets a tea towel, wrings it out a little, comes back and places it on Anne's face. Waits for a reaction that doesn't come. Then he pulls up her hair in the nape of her neck and applies the cloth there. Then sits down and looks at her Once again they both remain seated. In the background, we hear the GUSHING of the tap that in his panic he has forgotten to turn it off. Making a sudden decision, he gets up, rapidly crossing the hallway, he goes into the bedroom where he starts to dress agitatedly, which takes him quite a lot of time. Suddenly, the GUSHING of the tap stops, which had accompanied us as far as the bedroom. George doesn't notice it immediately, then he stops short.
ANNE: What are you doing? She turns toward the breakfast.
GEORGES: ( both aghast and furious ) Hey, what's going on? Are you completely crazy? Is this supposed to be a joke, or what's going on? She looks at him with amazement.
ANNE: What did you say?
GEORGES: ( SERIOUSLY )
ANNE: What joke? I don't get it! Why are you talking to me like that? What's got into you? Georges comes from the door to the table.
GEORGES: Anne! Please! Stop this game. It's not funny.
ANNE: ( GETTING IRRITATED )
GEORGES: What's the matter? Why didn't you To what?
ANNE: To what?
GEORGES: To what? To me, to everything.
ANNE: Just now. A moment ago.
GEORGES: Just now. A moment ago.
ANNE: Please tell me what's wrong. What am I supposed to have done? Georges first looks away reluctantly, then looks at Anne. He doesn't want to believe that its serious.
GEORGES: I don't know what to say. Do you really not know what just happened?
ANNE: But what DID happen?
GEORGES: ( almost reluctantly bowing his head as he speaks ) You were sitting there, staring at me. You didn't answer me when I asked you what the matter was. He picks up the wet tea towel from the table.
ANNE: When. When was it?
GEORGES: Just now, a few minutes ago.
ANNE: There's no "So". I went into the bedroom to get dressed. I wanted to get help.
GEORGES: There's no "So". I went into the bedroom to get dressed. I wanted to get help.
ANNE: Yes, and then you turned off the Yes. Because you left it on.
GEORGES: Yes, and then you turned off the Yes. Because you left it on.
ANNE: Yes. Because you left it on.
SILENCE: ANNE ( CONT'D )
GEORGES: Neither do I.
ANNE: Why? What can he do?
GEORGES: I don't know. Examine you.
ANNE: I'm fine. There's nothing wrong with me.
GEORGES: Anne, please!! That's absurd. We can't pretend that nothing But what DID happen?
ANNE: But what DID happen?
GEORGES: Can you explain how the tea towel got there?
ANNE: ( IRRITATED )
GEORGES: Who turned on the tap?
ANNE: You did!
GEORGES: Can you remember that?
ANNE: ( more and more desperate, close to tears ) No I can't! Do you want to torture me? Leave me in peace! Georges looks at her.
GEORGES: Don't you think it would be better to fetch Dr. Bertier?
ANNE: She takes her cup of tea, as if to show how well she is, and drinks it up. When she wants to re-fill her cup, she completely misses her aim. She notices it, puts down her cup and bursts into tears.
SILENCE: We see wide shots of the apartment. The hallway. The bedroom. The living room. The dining room. The kitchen. Nobody in SCENE 10 - INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY EVA, around 50, has come to pay a visit. Anne isn't there.
EVA: You know how he is. Once he's got something into his head, he has to go through with it. In the end, everybody was delighted. And besides, it didn't hurt our financial situation. We're playing until the 28th.
GEORGES: What about the children?
EVA: Liz is at boarding school and John is living his own life. He's twenty- six years old.
GEORGES: What does he do?
EVA: He's a student. We rarely see him. He's got his own ideas. Life Geoff. They don't really get along. Geoff wants to advise him on everything, and John doesn't like that at all.
GEORGES: Is he good?
EVA: I think so. He's less impulsive. Very industrious.
GEORGES: That sounds rather derogatory.
EVA: No!! He's not like Geoff. Quiet, but stubborn. I think he'll do all right. At the last Conservatory concert, he played the solo part in the Haydn Concerto. It was very good. Geoff was there and congratulated him at the end. Brief PAUSE.
GEORGES: And you?
EVA: What do you mean?
GEORGES: Did you both make up?
EVA: ( with a little laugh ) My God, you know him, don't you? Over the winter, he suddenly discovered his passion for a viola player who'd been in our ensemble for years. What can I tell you? It was a huge drama, and the poor little darling wound up trying to commit suicide. That scared him and he came back to me in full remorse. I've got used to it now. What's a bit embarrassing is that the ensemble, you can't keep any secrets from anyone.
GEORGES: Do you love him?
EVA: Yes, I think so. Brief PAUSE.
GEORGES: What can I say? The carotid artery was blocked. They did an ultrasound scan, two in fact, and they said they had to operate on her. She was scared. She was confused and scared. You know she has always been afraid of doctors. They said the risk was very low and that if they didn't operate, she'd be certain to have a serious stroke.
EVA: And what do they say now?
GEORGES: Just that it didn't go well. It's one of the 5% that go wrong. He yawns.
EVA: I'm so sorry.
GEORGES: What can I do for you?
EVA: What can I do for you?
GEORGES: Nothing. It was nice of you to come despite all of your stress. Brief PAUSE. She doesn't know what to say.
EVA: ( with a little laugh ) It's funny. I don't know if I should say it. Maybe it'll embarrass you. But when I came here a short while ago, I suddenly remembered how I always used to listen to the two of you making love when I was little.
GEORGES: Here. Thank you very much. It's for both of you. You can just put the things down here. There, beside the window, right. We'll be okay on our own. Thanks a lot. The two paramedics exchange a brief glance, say thanks, and leave the apartment, passing the superintendent as they go.
SUPERINTENDENT: If you need anything, just call downstairs. If we can help at Right now everything's fine. I'll let your wife know as soon as we need anything.
GEORGES: Right now everything's fine. I'll let your wife know as soon as we need anything.
SUPERINTENDENT: ( TO ANNE )
ANNE: Yes. Thank you, Mr. Mery. Thank The superintendent hesitates another moment.
SUPERINTENDENT: Yes. So. Goodbye then, ma'am. Welcome home again. Goodbye, Sir.
GEORGES: Goodbye, Mr. Mery.
SUPERINTENDENT: He leaves the apartment. There is a brief moment of perplexity. Then Georges says:
GEORGES: ( with a nervous smile ) Where do you want.
ANNE: In the living room. Georges pushes her toward the living room door, walks around the wheelchair, opens the door, comes back behind the wheelchair and pushes Anne into the LIVING ROOM. The doorway is narrow. The wheelchair only just passes through it. Georges pushes Anne toward the sofa and the armchairs and then steps in front of her.
GEORGES: Shall I make some tea?
ANNE: ( with a faint smile ) First come sit with me. George registers her smile; he knows he's behaving in a clumsy way. He sits down in one of the two arm chairs.
GEORGES: ( EAGERLY )
ANNE: It's best if you put my arm around your neck and your right arm around me, that way it'll be easy. He does as he is told, pulls her up as they hobble together the short distance to the second arm chair. Cautiously, he lowers her down and helps her sit herself straight. Because they are not used to it, the whole process appears awkward and clumsy.
GEORGES: ( softly almost to himself ) I'm glad you're back.
ANNE: ( in a voice just as soft ) Me too. Another PAUSE. Then Anne says:
GEORGES: Please never take me back to the She looks at him. He has understood.
ANNE: Please never take me back to the She looks at him. He has understood.
GEORGES: She looks at him. He has understood.
ANNE: You promise?
GEORGES: You promise?
ANNE: You promise?
GEORGES: Anne, I.
ANNE: Don't talk right now. And don't give me any lectures. Please. Brief PAUSE.
GEORGES: What can I say, it's.
ANNE: ( INTERRUPTING HIM )
OK?!: SCENE 13 - INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT He helps her into bed, then throws the blanket over her.
GEORGES: Thank you. Thank you, Darling.
ANNE: Thank you. Thank you, Darling.
GEORGES: Everything OK?
ANNE: ( SMILING )
GEORGES: I don't feel guilty.
ANNE: That's good. She smiles.
GEORGES: ( with a slight smile )
ANNE: Did you buy the new book on I've already read it.
GEORGES: I've already read it.
ANNE: Do you want it? I'll get it for He goes out of the room to fetch the book. She remains lying there, waiting, and runs her healthy left hand through her hair to make herself look prettier, then smooths out the blanket that has slipped out of place a little. After a while, we hear Georges shouting.
GEORGES: Do you want it? I'll get it for He goes out of the room to fetch the book. She remains lying there, waiting, and runs her healthy left hand through her hair to make herself look prettier, then smooths out the blanket that has slipped out of place a little. After a while, we hear Georges shouting.
ANNE: He goes out of the room to fetch the book. She remains lying there, waiting, and runs her healthy left hand through her hair to make herself look prettier, then smooths out the blanket that has slipped out of place a little. After a while, we hear Georges shouting.
ANNE: Don't worry. It isn't that GEORGES ( O.S. ) Yes, it is. Hold on, maybe it's in the. Just a moment! Viola! Here you are! Nothing like an infallible She smiles, looks in his direction. He enters with the book in his hand.
ANNE: ( taking the book ) She puts the book on her stomach. Looks at Georges.
GEORGES: He looks at her for a moment longer, then leaves the bedroom. She waits till he's outside. Tries to relax. Then she remembers the book. She takes it in her left hand and tries to open it. It's not easy for her. Then she notices that she's forgotten her glasses. She rests the book back on the bed cover and fishes for her glasses on the night stand. In the end, she manages it. Then she opens the book again, and tries to read.
SUPERINTENDANT'S WIFE: Unfortunately the strawberries were already moldy. I'll go and get you some fresh ones tomorrow from the market. My husband will bring you the bottled water this afternoon. I'm not supposed to carry anything heavy: my back, you know.
GEORGES: Sure, no problem.
SUPERINTENDENT'S WIFE: It came to 76 euros and 40 cents. There's the till receipt and here's your change: 23 euros 60.
GEORGES: Thank you very much. Keep the change. Thanks.
SUPERINTENDENT'S WIFE: Thank you, sir. Short embarrassed PAUSE.
GEORGES: Yes. I will.
SUPERINTENDENT'S WIFE: Is your wife well? .
GEORGES: Yes, she's OK. She's recovering.
SUPERINTENDENT'S WIFE: Fine. Give her my regards. My husband and I are very glad she's Yes, we are too. Bye, Mrs. Méry, thanks so much.
GEORGES: Yes, we are too. Bye, Mrs. Méry, thanks so much.
SUPERINTENDENT'S WIFE: Goodbye, sir. She heads toward the front door of the apartment, turns around again toward Georges.
GEORGES: . some banal romance or other about a nobleman and a lower middle- class girl who couldn't have each other and who then, out of sheer magnanimity, decide to renounce their love - in fact I don't quite remember it any more. In any case, afterwards I was thoroughly distraught, and it took me a bit of time to calm down. In the courtyard of the house where grandma lived, there was a young guy at the window who asked me where I'd been. He was a couple of years older than me, a braggart who of course really impressed me. "To the movies", I said, because I was proud that my grandma had given me the money to go all alone to the cinema.
ANNE: So? How did he react?
GEORGES: No idea. He probably found it amusing. I don't remember. I don't remember the film either. But I remember the feeling. That I was ashamed of crying, but that telling him the story made all my feelings and tears come back, almost more powerfully than when I was actually watching the film, and that I just couldn't stop. She looks at him, smiles, then turns back to her food.
ANNE: That's cute. Why didn't you ever tell me before?
GEORGES: There are still a few stories you don't know.
ANNE: Aha.? Don't tell me you're going to ruin your image in your old age?
GEORGES: ( GRINNING ) ( TENDERLY )
ANNE: ( TENDERLY )
GEORGES: ( EMBARRASSED GRIN )
ANNE: Listen to this! My horoscope. Motto: You have lots of verve, but need to be more serious! Love: High-class conversation is what you need. Work: You're motivated again. But proceed with care. Health: Loosen up by doing exercises. It'll give you renewed PAUSE. Then
GEORGES: ( GOOD-HUMORED )
ANNE: You have to go.
GEORGES: I fear I must. I don't want to go at all.
ANNE: Who does like going to funerals?
GEORGES: Oh, I know a few people who do. Annette can never wait to get all dolled up again. And François You're mean. What would you say if no one came to your funeral?
ANNE: You're mean. What would you say if no one came to your funeral?
GEORGES: ( dryly ) Nothing, presumably. She shoots him a glance, smiles at his irony. Then she says:
ANNE: Have you talked to Jeanne since I was in the hospital? I mean, does she know I can't come?
GEORGES: Of course.
ANNE: What did she say?
GEORGES: She was shocked.
ANNE: ( a bit irritated ) My God, what are people like when they're shocked? She couldn't believe it, she was speechless. I don't remember any more. In any case, not exactly. I've spoken to a lot of people since.
GEORGES: ( a bit irritated ) My God, what are people like when they're shocked? She couldn't believe it, she was speechless. I don't remember any more. In any case, not exactly. I've spoken to a lot of people since.
ANNE: No, I'm sorry. I didn't mean to be unkind, but I just don't see the point of talking about it all the Short PAUSE.
GEORGES: No, I'm sorry. I didn't mean to be unkind, but I just don't see the point of talking about it all the Short PAUSE.
ANNE: Do I talk about it all the time?
GEORGES: No. Sorry.
ANNE: Don't worry.
GEORGES: What . ?! Shaken, he heads toward her, picks her up and seats her in the wheelchair. Outside, in the light well, it is raining.
ANNE: ( once she's seated in the
WHEELCHAIR ): Why are you back already? What time is it?
GEORGES: Can you wheel me into the living He turns toward her, pushes the wheelchair into the living room between the two armchairs. Turns on the light. Stops beside the switch. They both look exhausted.
ANNE: Can you wheel me into the living He turns toward her, pushes the wheelchair into the living room between the two armchairs. Turns on the light. Stops beside the switch. They both look exhausted.
GEORGES: He turns toward her, pushes the wheelchair into the living room between the two armchairs. Turns on the light. Stops beside the switch. They both look exhausted.
ANNE: Yes. Why are you home earlier?
GEORGES: I didn't come home earlier. I took a taxi. In August, there isn't a lot of traffic.
ANNE: That's true. How was the funeral?
GEORGES: How was it, go on, tell me! He thinks an instant, then goes and sits down facing her in an armchair. Looks at her. She raises her head and returns his look. He understands that he can't insist right now. Long PAUSE. Then he begins:
ANNE: How was it, go on, tell me! He thinks an instant, then goes and sits down facing her in an armchair. Looks at her. She raises her head and returns his look. He understands that he can't insist right now. Long PAUSE. Then he begins:
GEORGES: It was rather bizarre. The priest was an idiot. Then one of Pierre's co-workers made a speech that was embarrassingly emotional. His old secretary came with a radio- cassette player and after the speech she put on "Yesterday" by the Beatles. You can't imagine. Everybody turned round to look at her. Apparently, it wasn't planned. His grandchildren were there. Of course they giggled as soon as the music began. Then the urn was put on a huge stretcher that was obviously designed for a coffin, and out we went into the rain. They placed the urn on a small electric cart that crawled along for what seemed like an eternity to the tiny hole they had dug. A lot of people had to stifle their laughter. It must have been terrible for Jeanne. I have.
ANNE: ( INTERRUPTING HIM )
GEORGES: You're not inflicting anything on You don't have to lie, Georges.
ANNE: You don't have to lie, Georges.
GEORGES: Imagine you were me. Didn't you ever think something like this could happen to one of us?
ANNE: Of course I did. But imagination and reality have little in common.
GEORGES: But things are getting better every day. We'll.
ANNE: ( INTERRUPTING HIM )
GEORGES: I don't believe you. I know you. You think you're a burden on me. But what if things were the other way around? What would you do then?
ANNE: I don't know. I can't be bothered to think about being you. I'm tired. You tire me. Everything tires me. I can't talk. I want to go to bed. He looks at her. Finally he gets up and pushes her wheelchair out of frame.
GEORGES: ( somewhat perplexed, but pleased ) Oh hello! Nice to see you.
SOLOIST: Forgive me for dropping in on you like this, Professor. I tried to reach you by phone a couple of times, but no luck.
GEORGES: I'm sorry. I only pick up the phone when I've stored the caller's number and I can see who's calling. Why didn't you leave a message? Anyway, do come in. He closes the door behind his guest.
SOLOIST: I just couldn't manage to come by after the concert. I was so sorry, because I was so pleased you came Come with me. While they pass into the living room, they continue to speak:
GEORGES: Come with me. While they pass into the living room, they continue to speak:
SOLOIST: . And now, an unexpected opportunity has arisen because François Mitry called me - you know him, he's my agent - to say he'd arranged for me to meet the boss of the Théâtre des Champs-Elysées tonight to talk about their new concert series.
GEORGES: Yes, she is. I'll go and get her in a minute. Have a seat.
SOLOIST: I hope I'm not disturbing you too No, not at all. I'm happy that you came. We were so thrilled by your concert. We hoped we'd see you again soon. Please do have a seat. Can I can get you something? A cup of tea?
GEORGES: No, not at all. I'm happy that you came. We were so thrilled by your concert. We hoped we'd see you again soon. Please do have a seat. Can I can get you something? A cup of tea?
SOLOIST: No, no, thank you very much.
GEORGES: Hold on, I'll just freshen up the flowers; in this heat they wilt so I've only just bought them. They should keep quite. But Georges has already left the room with the bouquet and closed the door behind him. The soloist looks around him. After a few moments we hear the VOICES of Anne and Georges in the distance, without understanding what they're saying. It lasts a while. Finally Georges opens the door and pushes Anne, in her wheelchair, into the living room.
SOLOIST: I've only just bought them. They should keep quite. But Georges has already left the room with the bouquet and closed the door behind him. The soloist looks around him. After a few moments we hear the VOICES of Anne and Georges in the distance, without understanding what they're saying. It lasts a while. Finally Georges opens the door and pushes Anne, in her wheelchair, into the living room.
ANNE: Martin! What a delight. How lovely to see you! The ( male or female ) soloist has got up and doesn't quite know how to handle the situation.
SOLOIST: Mrs. Laurent! Lovely to see you Don't get up. Come on, sit yourself down and don't look so shocked. The soloist sits down hesitantly, Georges pushes the wheelchair between the two armchairs and also sits down. Brief embarrassed PAUSE.
ANNE: Don't get up. Come on, sit yourself down and don't look so shocked. The soloist sits down hesitantly, Georges pushes the wheelchair between the two armchairs and also sits down. Brief embarrassed PAUSE.
SOLOIST: Oh God! I wanted to bring you the CD, but I left in such a hurry that I forgot it. I'm so sorry. I'll get one today and drop it by.
ANNE: ( SMILING )
SOLOIST: You've already contributed so much. I owe you so much, Madame.
ANNE: You owe it to your hard work and your talent.
SOLOIST: ( shaking his head a little ) Do you remember, when you first gave me the Bagatelles to play? I was twelve at the time, and in my youthful arrogance I said: "But why the Bagatelles?" And you really gave me a piece of your mind.
ANNE: My right side is paralyzed, that's all. It can happen when you get And how.?
SOLOIST: And how.?
ANNE: Let's talk about something else, shall we?
SOLOIST: ( DISCONCERTED )
ANNE: Don't be offended. But I want to enjoy the lovely interlude you've given us with your visit.
SOLOIST: ( DISARMED )
GEORGES: You haven't told us yet what's been going on since the Paris concert. The soloist is a bit thrown by the couple's behavior.
SOLOIST: Well, actually I've spent most of the time in London studying. Then I went to Copenhagen for two performances, that was Schubert too. My whole life revolves around Schubert at the moment. The concerts with the Impromptus and the Moments Musicaux, and for my bread-and-butter work I'm developing the sonatas. Not the late ones, I think I still need a couple more years for those.
ANNE: Could you do me a favor?
SOLOIST: ( SURPRISED )
ANNE: Would you play Für Elise?
SOLOIST: ( EMBARRASSED )
ANNE: Give it a try.
SOLOIST: ( HESITANTLY )
ANNE: What's the matter?
LIVING ROOM: Georges is seated in front of the open piano. His hands in his lap, he looks straight ahead.
GEORGES: ( shocked, and hence furious ) Good God, what are you doing? He hurries toward her and pulls her up rather roughly into the bed.
ANNE: ( meekly ) I'm sorry.
GEORGES: ( STILL FURIOUS )
ANNE: ( SOFTLY )
GEORGES: The lamp is broken too.
ANNE: Georges? What's going on? Who is Georges opens the door. Outside, however, instead of the usual landing, we see an empty room lit a giorno but without a window, about as large as the rooms in the apartment. It looks like an unpainted room in a new apartment. A couple of ladders are propped against the opposite wall. At the other end of the room, to the side, is a small door. Georges is stunned, and doesn't understand what has happened. Hesitating, he crosses the room toward the door. O.S., in the distance, Anne's worried voice:
ANNE'S VOICE: Calm down will you! There's nothing there. It's nothing. She manages to switch on the bedside lamp. Georges is sitting up in his bed, having just awoken, wide-eyed with terror. His breathing is labored. Anne extends her good hand toward him, caresses his back to calm him. He slowly calms down and flops back on his pillow.
ANNE: What was it? He doesn't answer. Continues breathing heavily. She caresses ( still with labored breathing ) I didn't understand. I thought I'd gone mad. It was something What was?
GEORGES: ( still with labored breathing ) I didn't understand. I thought I'd gone mad. It was something What was?
ANNE: What was?
GEORGES: Eva. They're coming on the 12th. He crouches down in front of Anne who is seated on the bed, puts his mobile phone back in his pocket and continues to put on her socks and her shoes.
ANNE: No idea. Apparently she's coming with Geoff.
GEORGES: No idea. Apparently she's coming with Geoff.
ANNE: When is it?
GEORGES: I don't know exactly. What day is it today? I'll go and look. Short PAUSE.
ANNE: I don't want that.
GEORGES: Geoff doesn't need to come.
ANNE: Geoff doesn't need to come.
GEORGES: Dear Madame Laurent, Dear Monsieur Laurent, it was beautiful and yet sad to see you. My heartfelt wishes that things will get better. With deep gratitude, your former pupil, Martin. The MUSIC makes their SILENCE less awkward. Then, after a long while, Anne says:
ANNE: Stop the CD. He hesitates, looks at her, then stops the music. They remain
GEORGES: The family albums? I don't know, there, in the other room. Why?
ANNE: Can you get them for me?
GEORGES: What, now? Anne nods.
ANNE: I'd like to look at them. Georges hesitates, and doesn't understand the suddenness of this request.
GEORGES: ( a bit irritated ) You're welcome. With her able hand, Anne opens the album, looks at the photos, turns the pages, looks.
ANNE: That's nice.
GEORGES: ( self-consciously, softly ) Life.so long. What a long Georges looks at her. She continues to thumb through the pages. After a while she turns toward him.
ANNE: Life.so long. What a long Georges looks at her. She continues to thumb through the pages. After a while she turns toward him.
GEORGES: ( caught in the act ) I wasn't watching you.
ANNE: Of course you were. I'm not that dumb yet.
GEORGES: You're soaked through.
ANNE: What do you mean? Brief PAUSE.
GEORGES: Hold on. He sits her back on the bed and goes out of the room.
ANNE: ( SOBBING )
GEORGES: My love. My darling.
EVA: . thinking about whether it wouldn't be better to invest the money in an apartment block. If inflation gets going again, property is the only sure thing. Right now, savings accounts pay 1.75% at best. Four years ago, Geoff bought some stocks with a small sum of money and the whole thing collapsed. So now we're obviously worried. Unfortunately, in the meantime, other people have had the same idea, and property prices are going through the roof. Since we came back from Scandinavia, I spend all my spare time looking through newspaper ads. To put an end to the PAUSE that follows, she adds:
ANNE: ( slowly ) Yes yes I have. I have. the grandmother. woman with house. not. the house then . money
EVA: I don't understand you, I'm afraid.
ANNE: . yes. now. it's all. house sel. sel. sel. was. in two strokes of. so quickly. god it's hard. to say. sell. money gone. left. there too. PAUSE. Eva has tears in her eyes.
GEORGES: . three times a week. I'm not experienced enough. We'll see if that's enough.
GEOFF: How much is she asking?
GEORGES: It's paid by the hour. We'll see.
GEOFF: And her?
GEORGES: Geoff nods. Georges shrugs.
GEOFF: And what about the doctor? What does he say?
GEORGES: Eva comes in through the door. She's in floods of tears.
EVA: ( CRYING )
GEOFF: Hey, dear. He goes toward her and leads her to the armchair where he was .come here, sit down, it's OK. She shakes him off, irritated, and sits down.
EVA: Nothing is OK. At first he's vexed by her brusque response, but then goes to sit down on the sofa. Meanwhile, Eva turns to Georges:
GEORGES: We can't do anything for the moment. Calm down, darling. She's getting medical treatment, they give her the necessary medication, and there are no other options right now.
EVA: What does that mean, "no other options"? Why isn't she in a She had a second stroke. Bertier examined her and felt we could spare her all the hospital inpatient procedures.
GEORGES: She had a second stroke. Bertier examined her and felt we could spare her all the hospital inpatient procedures.
GEOFF: Don't you think you're taking on too much?
GEORGES: Have you got a better idea? Geoff doesn't know what to say. Eva has composed herself somewhat and blows her nose.
EVA: I can't believe that these days there's no way of handling this No one's stopping you from finding Eva gets up, furious, and goes to the window. Georges follows her with his eyes.
GEORGES: ( CURTLY )
EVA: I didn't say that. I'm simply questioning whether what I see going on here is the answer to Don't you want to get a second Now you two had better stop, OK? Another doctor did come. He said Bertier was right. From Monday, a nurse will come three times a week. Now can we talk about something Like what?
GEOFF: ( TO GEORGES )
GEORGES: Now you two had better stop, OK? Another doctor did come. He said Bertier was right. From Monday, a nurse will come three times a week. Now can we talk about something Like what?
EVA: Like what?
GEORGES: There, my love, I hope you like it.
ANNE: He begins to feed her.
GEORGES: I added a little orange juice. I find it tastes quite good. She can only swallow slowly, and so something keeps running back out of her mouth. He wipes it with a tea towel, continues to feed her. Finally, after a few mouthfuls, she keeps her mouth shut.
ANNE: .Mom to the concert.
GEORGES: .Mom to the concert. no Mom has no dress for the concert?
ANNE: .Mom to the concert. no Mom has no dress for the concert?
GEORGES: Mom has no dress for the concert?
ANNE: .Mom to concert. no . uuu. Long PAUSE. Georges waits.
GEORGES: Long PAUSE. Georges waits.
ANNE: ( in a monotone ) Help! Help! Help! Help! Help! Without being phased, the nurse continues to speak reassuringly. Georges remains standing there, helpless.
NURSE: . we could take turns. She'd come from 8 till 12 and I'd do 2 until 6, or 3 to 7. That would certainly relieve the pressure on you.
GEORGES: I'll think about it.
NURSE: She just has to know in time so she can arrange it in her schedule.
GEORGES: Yes, of course, I'll let you know in the next few days.
NURSE: Very well. I have to go now. She takes the money on the table, pockets it and gets up.
GEORGES: My pleasure. I'll see you out. They both leave the kitchen. As the nurse, in the hallway, takes her jacket off the hook in the closet and puts it on, she comments on Anne's continuing CALLS FOR HELP.
NURSE: You mustn't take it too seriously. Usually they always say something. She might just as well say "Mom, Mom, Mom". It's just mechanical.
GEORGES: ( nodding, softly ) I know. They've reached the door.
NURSE: Goodbye, sir.
GEORGES: He closes the door behind her. Remains motionless a moment, then goes into the bedroom, where Anne's CALLS FOR HELP, unaltered, continue. Georges sits down beside Anne on the bed, takes her hand, holds her. After a while, Anne calms down, her CALLS FOR HELP become quieter and finally stop altogether. After a long PAUSE:
ANNE: ( softly ) .Help.Help.
GEORGES: Would you mind putting them in the The superintendent precedes him into the kitchen with the bags. Georges calls toward the bedroom:
SUPERINTENDENT: Can I do anything else for you, No, thanks, Mr. Méry. You've been a big help.
GEORGES: No, thanks, Mr. Méry. You've been a big help.
SUPERINTENDENT: Oh, it's nothing, sir. Georges has already taken out his wallet and gives some money to the superintendent.
GEORGES: I'll let you know if I need you With pleasure, sir. He gets ready to leave. He stops again in the doorway and turns around.
SUPERINTENDENT: With pleasure, sir. He gets ready to leave. He stops again in the doorway and turns around.
GEORGES: What is it?
SUPERINTENDENT: My wife and I, we're very impressed by the way you're managing everything. I take my hat off to As he speaks, Georges' mobile phone has started to ring.
GEORGES: ( taking the mobile phone from the pocket of his jacket ) That's very kind of you. Thanks. See you soon.
SUPERINTENDENT: Give my regards to your wife.
GEORGES: I certainly will. Thanks.
ANNE: . Ssssur.
GEORGES: .Sur le pont.
ANNE: po . pont . sss
GEORGES: .Sur le pont . Sur le pont .
ANNE: . Ssssur le pont .
GEORGES: ( smiling to encourage her ): . Sur le pont d'Avignon.
ANNE: . ssur. le ..
GEORGES: . pont. Sur le pont d'Avignon. ( he begins to sing ): Sur le pont d'Avignon on y danse, on y danse, sur le pont d'Avignon tout le monde y danse en rond. He encourages her to sing with him. Starts singing again:
SECOND NURSE: ( "CHEERY" )
NURSE: . as you wish, sir. I don't know what you were expecting. I gave up another job to come and work here. You should have thought it over before deciding whether you wanted a second nurse or not.
GEORGES: But I've only just found out how incompetent you are.
NURSE: ( FURIOUS )
GEORGES: I don't want to discuss it with you. Anyway, you wouldn't No one has ever complained.
NURSE: No one has ever complained.
GEORGES: Good for you. ( To get rid of her ) How much do I owe you?
NURSE: ( after a brief calculation ) Seven hundred and eighty euros. Georges takes his wallet from his jacket hanging on the armchair and takes out eight one-hundred euro bills. The nurse is hopping mad.
GEORGES: Do you have twenty euros?
NURSE: Then take the eight hundred euros. You can go now. The nurse pockets the money.
GEORGES: Then take the eight hundred euros. You can go now. The nurse pockets the money.
NURSE: You're a nasty old man. I feel sorry for you. Georges has put back his wallet, turns to her again and looks at her.
GEORGES: I hope from the bottom of my heart that one day someone treats you the way you treat your patients, and that you too will have no way of defending yourself. Now get out. She looks at him, at first doesn't know what to answer, then:
NURSE: Go fuck yourself, you old fart! She leaves, slamming the door behind her. A few seconds later, we hear the front door of the apartment fall shut. Georges sits down in his armchair, looks straight ahead. Then he lights a cigarette, his hands shake, he smokes.
GEORGES: . Please, open your mouth. go on. open it. Anne! Please!. come on. stop that!. He sits upright.
ANNE: ( SOFTLY )
GEORGES: ( SOFTLY )
ANNE: ( softly ) Help. Help. Help. SCENE 51 - INT. APARTMENT - DAY The various paintings hanging in the apartment. Without their frames. Like views on various realities. SILENCE. Sometimes, the REMOTE sound of TRAFFIC in the SCENE 52 - INT. HALLWAY - LIVING ROOM - DINING ROOM - DAY Living room. Georges is drinking tea and reading the newspaper. SILENCE. Suddenly, the DOORBELL RINGS. Georges, annoyed, puts down his newspaper, gets up, goes into the hallway and goes to the front door.
GEORGES: Who's there?
EVA'S VOICE: It's me.
GEORGES: EVA'S VOICE
EVA'S VOICE: ( a bit irritated ) Yes. Georges, panicked, thinks for a few seconds.
GEORGES: Just a minute. He goes toward the bedroom door, locks it and puts the key in his pocket. He goes into the dining room, also closes the door leading to the bedroom. He comes back. He is about to go toward the front door, but remains motionless an instant, opens the door of the toilet that is located just nearby, flushes the toilet, closes the toilet door again and opens the front door.
EVA: Hello. What was going on?
GEORGES: I was in the toilet. Sorry. He closes the front door behind Eva, indicates the direction of the living room.
EVA: What's going on with Mom?
GEORGES: Nothing. What should be going on?
EVA: Well. ( gesture toward the
BEDROOM ): Don't you want to sit down first? Eva wants to answer, but finally gives in and sits down. Georges does the same.
GEORGES: Don't you want to sit down first? Eva wants to answer, but finally gives in and sits down. Georges does the same.
EVA: What's going on with Mom? Why don't you answer the phone? After our last conversation, I left four messages on your answering machine. Why don't you call back?
GEORGES: Sorry. I didn't listen to it. Forgive me.
EVA: Don't you realize we're worried?
GEORGES: Your worries are no use to me. Eva glares at him.
EVA: No. Let's stop this conversation right there. I'm taking care of your mother. It's a full-time job. And I'm not saying that to complain, just to explain why I didn't answer your phone calls and why I don't want to have any pointless discussions on the subject. Your mother is just as could have been expected: bad the whole time.
GEORGES: No. Let's stop this conversation right there. I'm taking care of your mother. It's a full-time job. And I'm not saying that to complain, just to explain why I didn't answer your phone calls and why I don't want to have any pointless discussions on the subject. Your mother is just as could have been expected: bad the whole time.
EVA: Dad, what's the matter?
GEORGES: Nothing's the matter; your visit caught me by surprise. And I'm annoyed that you show up here to check that everything's OK. Who do you think you are? PAUSE. Eva is speechless.
EVA: Then she gets up and makes to go to the door.
GEORGES: Stay here, will you! She stops short, looks at him.
GEORGES: Please, sit down.
EVA: I don't want to sit down. What's going on here?
GEORGES: ( QUIETLY )
EVA: ( SOFTLY )
GEORGES: ( ALSO SOFTLY )
EVA: It's me, Mom. Anne emits a FURIOUS SOUND.
ANNE: Mom. Mom. Mom. Mom. Mom.
GEORGES: The tea isn't very hot any more. Eva turns toward him.
EVA: She takes the cup, drinks. Replaces it. Still can't bring herself to look at him.
GEORGES: It was silly of me to lock the door. I'm sorry. You took me by surprise, that's all. I'm sorry. She nods her head, indicating she understands. Finally she looks at him:
EVA: What's going to happen now?
GEORGES: ( with a little ironic laugh ) What's going to happen now? The nurse comes twice a week, and every two weeks Dr. Bertier and the hairdresser come. That's what you want to know, right? Things will go on as they have done up until now. They'll go from bad to worse. Things will go on, and then one day it will all be over. Brief PAUSE.
EVA: You can't go on like this, Dad.
GEORGES: Can't I? What do you suggest?
EVA: Can't we have a serious talk, you and me?
GEORGES: What do you call "a serious talk"? What do you want to suggest? Do you want to have Mom live with you? Do you want to pack her off to a care home? Do you? What do you want? Go on, talk to me "seriously"! Eva looks at him.
ANNE: ( in a rush ). short. short dress. only I. only I. all long. it was. ( with a small gesture to imitate a bell ): ding. Yes, it swung to and fro.
GEORGES: ( SMILING )
ANNE: ( still rushed ) . yes. to . fro . you. very serious. like that. ( she imitates a serious countenance, continues in a low voice ): like that. serious.
GEORGES: ( unable to keep from laughing a little ) Yes. I think I was pretty ( smiling ) yes. up. tight. PAUSE. Anne puts her hand on Georges'.
ANNE: ( smiling ) yes. up. tight. PAUSE. Anne puts her hand on Georges'.
BATHROOM: Georges is shaving. Suddenly we hear, coming from the Georges wipes his face and, to the sound of Anne's cries, crosses the hallway and enters the bedroom. Anne continues to cry out in a monotone to herself. Georges goes over to her bed.
ANNE'S VOICE: ( loud ) Help. Help. Help. Help. Help. Georges wipes his face and, to the sound of Anne's cries, crosses the hallway and enters the bedroom. Anne continues to cry out in a monotone to herself. Georges goes over to her bed.
GEORGES: ( trying to calm her like a sick child ) What is it?..
ANNE: I'm almost done. Georges continues to look at her unwaveringly.
ANNE'S VOICE: You can put your shoes on if you Georges looks at her an instant longer, passes beside her, goes into the hallway, sits down on a stool beside the closet and puts on his shoes. O.S. we hear Anne finishing her work. She comes out, hangs up her apron in the closet, disappears for a few moments into the bathroom. Meanwhile, Georges has got up, and looks in the bathroom where, clearly, Anne is tidying her hair and sprucing herself up. When she comes out again, he takes her coat from the closet and helps her put it They head for the front door.
ANNE: They head for the front door.
