FOR EDUCATIONAL: PURPOSES ONLY
PURPOSES ONLY: FADE IN: INT. DIMLY-LIT BAR - NIGHT Two men, CAESAR and MARTY "DUCKS," stand at the end of the deserted bar, talking quietly, oblivious to the exotic dancer grinding her pelvis on a pole in the middle of the small stage. Body language and charisma tell us that Caesar is the boss, "Ducks" his lieutenant.
DUCKS: It's Peezee. Gotta be. He hates your fuckin' guts.
CAESAR: ( brooding ) I don't know.
DUCKS: Who else knew about the money? And how did Peezee know they popped Tony Cisco when we didn't even hear about it 'til last night?
CAESAR: ( sighs heavily ) I don't know.
DUCKS: ( pressing ) What is so hard to understand here? You said yourself Peezee was a mamaluke and you couldn't trust him. Now suddenly you're soft on the guy?
CAESAR: I just don't think it was him.
DUCKS: Okay, I'll bite. If not Peezee, then I think it was you, Ducks.
CAESAR: ( slowly rising to I think it was you, Ducks.
DUCKS: ( scared ) You gotta be kiddin'!
DUCKS: Caesar, you know me! What kind of fuckin' idiot would I have to be to try that shit with you?
CAESAR: A dead fuckin' idiot.
TV SCREEN: been watching, "Little Caesar." CLAPPING AND CHEERING from
VITTI: Garbage. Change the channel.
WISEGUY: Okay, Paul.
CONVICT: Hey! What're you doin', asshole! Sorry, Mr. Vitti. Didn't mean any
CONVICT: Sorry, Mr. Vitti. Didn't mean any
WISEGUY: Vitti turns the page and sees a huge headline in the Post: MOB SHRINK TELLS ALL. He gets up, agitated.
VITTI: I'm going to bed.
VITTI: ( suspicious ) What's goin' on, Earl?
EARL: They're transferring me.
VITTI: ( shrugs ) Don't know. Thanks for looking out for me, Mr. Vitti.
EARL: ( shrugs ) Don't know. Thanks for looking out for me, Mr. Vitti.
VITTI: Yeah. Take it easy.
VITTI: Hey, Earl. Is that my after-shave?
EARL: ( blanches ) I'm sorry. I just grabbed stuff I didn't know
VITTI: That's okay. Keep it. Go ahead.
EARL: Thanks. See you around.
RABBI: And now I'd like to call on Isaac's son, Dr. Ben Sobel, who would like to say a few words.
BEN: ( addressing audience ) It's very difficult for me to talk about my father, because in a sense I'm talking about two men.
BEN: The second Isaac Sobel is the private man my father Dad. And for those of you who knew him well and knew our family well, let's face it my father was a psychotic, mind- fucking prick. An arrogant, abusive,
BEN: CONTINUES as all the mourners and even the Rabbi discreetly check their cell phones. Then Ben realizes it's his, fumbles for the phone in his jacket pocket and answers it.
BEN: ( whispers )
VITTI: Guess who, you fuck!
BEN: ( to Laura ) I have to, uh, take this. ( into phone ) This isn't a good time. Not a good time? Let me explain something to you. I'm in fucking Hell right now. This is not a good time.
VITTI: Not a good time? Let me explain something to you. I'm in fucking Hell right now. This is not a good time.
BEN: ( sotto voce ) I can't talk right now. My father So what does that have to do with me?
VITTI: So what does that have to do with me?
BEN: Call me later
VITTI: Don't hang up on, Sobel! They're tryin' to kill me!
VITTI: BUZZING in his ear.
WISEGUY #2: Ooh, they got tapioca. I love You all right, Paul?
WISEGUY #2: Can I have your tapioca?
COYOTE: ( to Vitti ) Hey, Fredo! Or is it Guido?
COYOTE: Just keep walkin', Don Corleone.
COYOTE: Shut up!
COYOTE: I said, shut up, bitch!
COYOTE: You're a dead man, jefe!
VITTI: ( singing, with 'When you're a Jet, You're a Jet all the way, From your first cigarette To your last dyin' day.'
VITTI: 'When you're a Jet, If the shit hits the fan, You got brothers around, You're a family man.'
COYOTE: You're a dead man, jefe!
VITTI: ( kicking at them, 'I like to be in America, Okay by me in America.'
VITTI: 'Tonight, tonight, won't be just
BEN: ( sighs deeply ) I can't believe he's gone.
LAURA: I can't believe what you said about him. Cold and withholding? You had to tell everybody?
MICHAEL: Nice. Why didn't you just take a swing at the casket?
BEN: Okay, I might have strayed from my notes a little. I'm dealing with a lot of stuff here. Grief is a
MILLER: Dr. Sobel, I'm Agent Miller, this is Special Agent Cerrone, Federal Bureau of Investigation. We'd just like to ask you a few questions, if we could.
LAURA: ( testy ) Can I ask what this is about? We just came from the cemetery.
CERRONE: We know this is a difficult time for you, Dr. Sobel. Sorry about your Thank you, I'm going to miss him
BEN: Thank you, I'm going to miss him
BEN: I mean there were issues as, I think, there are with any father and son. He wasn't especially warm
LAURA: Ben once today? Enough.
BEN: No, I'm just saying, in spite of all
BEN: he was a great, great legs. Dr. Sobel, you received a call this morning from Paul Vitti?
CERRONE: Dr. Sobel, you received a call this morning from Paul Vitti?
BEN: What makes you think Paul Vitti called Because we monitor and record all his phone calls from Sing Sing.
MILLER: Because we monitor and record all his phone calls from Sing Sing.
BEN: Then yes. He did.
LAURA: That was him on the phone?
BEN: And you didn't tell me?
LAURA: And you didn't tell me?
MICHAEL: Wow. Talk about withholding.
BEN: You told her You told her at the drop of a hat.
LAURA: You told her You told her at the drop of a hat.
BEN: She's with the F.B.I. She needs to know these things.
LAURA: Oh, I see. And I don't. Why tell Laura? She couldn't possibly handle a phone call.
BEN: Did I say that?
MILLER: You folks need a minute?
BEN: No, we're fine.
LAURA: If you don't need me anymore, I'll be in the kitchen. And two words of advice from one professional woman to another Pant.
BEN: She's grieving. It's a process.
MILLER: We understand. Oh, yes. Paul Vitti and I were involved in some organized crime activity a couple of years ago. I mean, I wasn't involved not 'involved' involved I was just trying to help him therapeutically, and some people tried to, uh, kill us. No big deal.
BEN: Oh, yes. Paul Vitti and I were involved in some organized crime activity a couple of years ago. I mean, I wasn't involved not 'involved' involved I was just trying to help him therapeutically, and some people tried to, uh, kill us. No big deal.
MILLER: Well, shortly after you spoke, he
BEN: What kind of breakdown?
MILLER: I think you'd better go up there and see for yourself.
VITTI: ( singing ) 'I feel pretty, oh, so pretty, I feel pretty and witty and bright.'
DR. CUTLER: I'm treating him with Thioridazine, 300 milligrams, T.I.D. That seems to keep him pretty calm.
BEN: ( watching Vitti ) That would keep a parade pretty calm. He just keeps singing West Side Story 'Tonight,' 'Maria,' the balcony scene.
DR. CUTLER: 'Tonight,' 'Maria,' the balcony scene.
BEN: The balcony scene? Both parts?
DR. CUTLER: Oh, yeah. Get him to do 'Officer Krupke.' It's really good.
VITTI: ( singing ) 'Who's the pretty girl in the mirror
BEN: Paul, it's me. Ben Sobel. Paul? Oh, boy. What's going on, Maria?
VITTI: ( with a look to Oh, boy. ( to Vitti ) What's going on, Maria?
BEN: ( with a look to Oh, boy. ( to Vitti ) What's going on, Maria?
VITTI: The rumble it's tonight! I have to get out of here. I don't want to die. No, Chino, no!
BEN: Paul? Paul?
DR. CUTLER: This is how it's been. He sings for a while, then he goes completely Really. Can we take him to an examining room?
BEN: ( skeptical ) Really. Can we take him to an examining room?
DR. CUTLER: Of course.
BEN: You already did a neurological work- Yep. No tumors, no aneurisms, no sign of stroke
DR. CUTLER: Yep. No tumors, no aneurisms, no sign of stroke
BEN: Completely catatonic
BEN: Totally gone. Well, I don't think he's smart enough to be faking. Street smart, yes, but we're talking about an I.Q. just north of a bedroom
BEN: So if I just stuck him with this needle, he probably wouldn't even I don't know. Try it.
DR. CUTLER: I don't know. Try it.
BEN: He sticks the needle into Vitti's shoulder.
VITTI: ( bursts into song ) 'Boy, boy, crazy boy, keep cool, boy! Got a rocket in your pocket, keep cool-y cool boy '
BEN: Paul, we're going to give you some tests to assess your mental condition. There's no pressure just answer as best you can. Do I have your consent to share the results of these tests?
VITTI: Mommy's mad at me because I made a boom on the rug.
BEN: I'll take that as a yes. Okay, I'm going to show you ten cards, each containing a picture of an inkblot. I want you to look at each card and tell me what you see.
VITTI: I see you. I see him. I see a table.
BEN: Focus, Paul. You haven't seen the card yet. What does this look like to you? Take your time.
VITTI: It looks like snow.
BEN: No, Paul, the other side.
VITTI: A bat. A big bat. Or a weasel.
BEN: ( taking notes ) Bat or weasel. All right.
VITTI: And he's got a little girl no, it's a little boy in his teeth and he's shakin' him and shakin' him 'cause the kid didn't wipe himself good and the kid is screaming because the bat-weasel ripped out his throat and the blood is shootin' out of his neck vein. That's the blood.
BEN: ( skeptical ) See anything else?
VITTI: Just the pussy with the teeth.
BEN: ( making more notes ) Pussy with teeth. Next card.
SHAPES TEST: CUT TO:
BEN: Now try repeating the numbers backwards. For instance, if I was 1- 2-3, you will say 3-2-1. Okay, 7-3-8.
VITTI: Try again. 7-3-8.
BEN: Try again. 7-3-8.
VITTI: CUT TO:
BEN: Just tell me what you think is going on in this picture.
VITTI: This is a picture of a guy nice, hardworking guy comes home and finds out his wife's been screwin' this midget while he was out of town.
BEN: ( appalled, makes Screwing a midget. And how does the story end?
VITTI: I think he works over the midget for a while, then he blows 'em away.
BEN: The wife or the midget?
VITTI: ( smirks ) Trick question, right? Both of 'em.
ANOTHER TEST: Okay, Paul. Last test. In this one, I'm going to start a sentence and you complete it any way you want to. Ready? 'I get angry '
BEN: Okay, Paul. Last test. In this one, I'm going to start a sentence and you complete it any way you want to. Ready? 'I get angry '
VITTI: No, you're supposed to complete the I did. I said 'yes.'
BEN: No, you're supposed to complete the I did. I said 'yes.'
VITTI: I did. I said 'yes.'
BEN: I wasn't asking if you agreed or disagreed; it was more like, 'I get angry when '
VITTI: Well, that about does it for me.
BEN: Well, that about does it for me.
BEN: Based on his symptoms and the test results, I'd say brief psychotic disorder if it persists, possibly schizophreniform disorder. And Dr. Cutler agrees with my diagnosis.
CHAPIN: So he's crazy?
BEN: In certain people, continuous exposure to an extremely stressful situation soldiers in combat, for instance, disaster victims, a hostage situation, or being locked up in a maximum security prison with someone trying to kill you it can produce a temporary psychotic state.
CHAPIN: In certain people, continuous exposure to an extremely stressful situation soldiers in combat, for instance, disaster victims, a hostage situation, or being locked up in a maximum security prison with someone trying to kill you it can produce a temporary psychotic state.
BEN: In certain people, continuous exposure to an extremely stressful situation soldiers in combat, for instance, disaster victims, a hostage situation, or being locked up in a maximum security prison with someone trying to kill you it can produce a temporary psychotic state.
CHAPIN: precipitating stressors are removed.
BEN: precipitating stressors are removed.
CHAPIN: ( musing ) Which means he's not going to get any better while he's still in the can.
BEN: deteriorate to the point where he'd be permanently schizophrenic.
CHAPIN: because he goes before the parole board in four weeks.
BEN: release a major Mafia figure who's now totally deranged on top of it.
CHAPIN: release a major Mafia figure who's now totally deranged on top of it.
BEN: ( thinks ) Well, couldn't you release him to a halfway house or some place where he could get some decent treatment? Based on my earlier work with him, I don't think he's dangerous, and I think he was making a real effort to reform himself.
CHAPIN: ( thinks for a Okay. Then I'll tell you what. I'm gonna release him into your custody.
BEN: me. My father just died and I've got this bulging disc in my neck and we're redecorating, which is a total nightmare. I can't
CHAPIN: criminally insane.
BEN: criminally insane.
CHAPIN: criminally insane.
BEN: talk to the Bureau of Prisons and get you certified as a temporary federal What? I can't be an institution.
CHAPIN: talk to the Bureau of Prisons and get you certified as a temporary federal What? I can't be an institution.
BEN: ( stricken )
CHAPIN: ( firm ) You've got thirty days to get him in shape for his parole hearing. That means sane, sober and gainfully employed. But let me warn you, Doctor. If he fucks up in any way if he flees, or if I find out that this whole thing was just a setup so he could get back on the street and return to a life of crime I will hold you totally responsible, and I'll see that you are stripped of your license and prosecuted to the full extent of the law. Are we clear?
BEN: ( gulp )
CHAPIN: You still want him?
BEN: ( long beat to Okay, Paul this way.
BEN: Okay, Paul this way.
BEN: This way, Paul. Over here. Here we Leg, Paul. Leg up.
BEN: Leg, Paul. Leg up.
VITTI: ( enraged ) You fucking son-of-a-bitch! Where the fuck do you get off sticking me with a I knew it! I knew you were faking! You used me to get you out of prison!
BEN: I knew it! I knew you were faking! You used me to get you out of prison!
VITTI: Took you long enough. I was singin' West Side Story for three fuckin' days. I'm half a fag already.
BEN: What are you talking about?
VITTI: I call you to say somebody's trying to kill me and you hang up on me?
BEN: I was at the funeral home!
VITTI: You're my fuckin' doctor!
BEN: My father died!
VITTI: Me me me me! He's dead! Get over it.
BEN: Are you hearing yourself?
VITTI: ( perfunctorily ) I'm deeply sorry for your loss.
BEN: Yeah, I can see how touched you are.
VITTI: What's the difference? You hated him I loved my father. I'm feeling a lot of grief right now.
BEN: I loved my father. I'm feeling a lot of grief right now.
VITTI: I'm not sensing it, but if you say so.
VITTI: ( re: pill ) What's that?
BEN: Decongestant. I'm getting over a cold. All right, what's going on? Who's after you?
VITTI: I don't know take your pick. Could be my old family, or could be the Rigazzis. Ever heard of Lou Rigazzi - - Lou 'The Wrench'?
BEN: Why "The Wrench"?
VITTI: Because he twisted a guy's head off Off. Fuckin' Calabrese animals. And comin' from me you know that's a big compliment.
BEN: Off. Fuckin' Calabrese animals. And comin' from me you know that's a big compliment.
VITTI: Off. Fuckin' Calabrese animals. And comin' from me you know that's a big compliment.
BEN: I'm sure they'd be flattered. So
VITTI: The feds are really putting the pressure on. The families are fighting each other again what's left of 'em. It's the fall of the fuckin' Roman Empire. It's World War Three out there.
BEN: So what does that have to do with you?
VITTI: They knew I was gettin' out soon and the last thing anybody wants to see is me getting into it on either side.
BEN: Maybe if you just explain to them that you're out of it now, that you're starting a new life
VITTI: Yeah, they'll probably want to throw me a party and give me a gold watch. Trust me nobody's lookin' forward to me being out.
BEN: You are, aren't you?
VITTI: Me? Oh, yeah, my future looks real fuckin' rosy.
BEN: Want to grab your stuff?
VITTI: I'm not gonna be here that long. Jelly's pickin' me up in an hour.
BEN: Paul! I don't think you understand. You're in my custody. I could get in a lot of trouble if you screw up.
VITTI: Don't worry about it. I'll call you Oh, no. You want to go back to Sing Sing? Thursday's meatloaf night. I can have you back there in no time. The U.S. Attorney was very clear. You stay with me; therapy every day; you can't leave the area without What are you, my father now?
BEN: Oh, no. You want to go back to Sing Sing? Thursday's meatloaf night. I can have you back there in no time. The U.S. Attorney was very clear. You stay with me; therapy every day; you can't leave the area without What are you, my father now?
VITTI: What are you, my father now?
BEN: And you have to get a job as soon as you're well enough, which is now. So are you coming in with me or do I have to make a phone call?
VITTI: I'm comin'. Some fuckin' life this is gonna be.
CERRONE: You really think Vitti is crazy?
CHAPIN: Yeah, he's about as crazy as I am.
DAVIS: If we can use Vitti to escalate this war, we might just end up putting them all away.
MILLER: That's if he goes back to his old If? People like Paul Vitti don't change. This guy's been a menace to society since he was twelve years old. Being a criminal is all he knows. Trust me.
CHAPIN: If? People like Paul Vitti don't change. This guy's been a menace to society since he was twelve years old. Being a criminal is all he knows. Trust me.
DAVIS: He's gonna head straight for trouble. Then all we have to do is sit back and pick up the pieces. We could get twenty, maybe even thirty indictments next time the grand jury convenes.
CHAPIN: ( smiles ) You know, Giuliani started this way.
DAVIS: You running for mayor?
CHAPIN: Could happen. Just stick with Vitti.
LAURA: How could you? How could you bring him here? That mobster in my home eating off my dishes.
BEN: I didn't have a lot of choice.
LAURA: Oh, there's a law that says you have to bring a gangster home?
BEN: I told you. He's in my custody. I'm a federal institution.
LAURA: You should be in an institution. Why couldn't he just go home?
BEN: His wife and kids aren't here. They're in Ohio.
LAURA: Ohio! Sure. Everyone gets to be in Ohio except me.
BEN: His life was threatened and he didn't want to endanger his family.
LAURA: How thoughtful! What about endangering our family? I think my teeth are loose. Feel my Honey, your teeth are fine. I know it's an imposition, but what could I do? I didn't want him here. They -
BEN: Honey, your teeth are fine. I know it's an imposition, but what could I do? I didn't want him here. They -
LAURA: You didn't want him, I didn't want him, but here he is!
LAURA: ( covering, cheerful ) Here he is!
VITTI: Somebody said something about coffee.
LAURA: Somebody said something about coffee.
VITTI: Somebody said something about coffee.
LAURA: That was you. You said you wanted So what's the holdup?
VITTI: So what's the holdup?
LAURA: ( to Ben ) Why don't you make your friend some coffee. I'm going upstairs to take a long bath and hopefully drown.
BEN: You'll have to forgive her. She's usually a great hostess.
VITTI: I understand. She's uncomfortable. The whole situation's a little awkward with me bein' here but let's face it, Emily fuckin' Post she's not.
BEN: Emily fuckin' Post. Well, that explains why she rarely used her middle name.
VITTI: Listen, I got a friend coming over. I didn't want you to be surprised.
BEN: What kind of friend? Because if it's 'The Wrench,' or 'The Power Drill' or any other kind of Not that kind of friend. It's a personal thing.
VITTI: Not that kind of friend. It's a personal thing.
BEN: They won't stay late, will they?
VITTI: ( stares at him ) Are you really that pussy-whipped?
BEN: I'm not this has nothing to do with I heard her busting your balls.
VITTI: I heard her busting your balls.
BEN: We were having a disagreement. A certain amount of conflict is normal in a marriage.
VITTI: Or what?
BEN: Or what?
VITTI: Or you're pussy-whipped.
BEN: Good night, Whippy.
VITTI: Good night, Whippy.
BEN: ( calls after him ) Remember, this is only temporary.
VITTI: Oh, really? I didn't hear you the tenth fuckin' time.
BEN: ( oblivious ) Mike, can we talk for a second?
MICHAEL: Sure. What?
BEN: kind of tough with Grandpa dying and everything and it might've felt to you like I didn't have time for you or I didn't care about how you feel.
MICHAEL: you can talk to me about stuff and that I can really listen and understand what you're going through.
BEN: you can talk to me about stuff and that I can really listen and understand what you're going through.
MICHAEL: Grandpa, it's just that your grandfather was a hard man in a lot of ways. He wanted everything done his way and sometimes I just felt like nothing I ever did was good enough. I don't want it to be that way with us.
BEN: Grandpa, it's just that your grandfather was a hard man in a lot of ways. He wanted everything done his way and sometimes I just felt like nothing I ever did was good enough. I don't want it to be that way with us.
MICHAEL: all might start questioning our own mortality and you might be thinking how devastated you'd be if I died. realize it's all a little hectic right now, but this Paul Vitti thing is only temporary, okay?
BEN: all might start questioning our own mortality and you might be thinking how devastated you'd be if I died. realize it's all a little hectic right now, but this Paul Vitti thing is only temporary, okay?
MICHAEL: realize it's all a little hectic right now, but this Paul Vitti thing is only temporary, okay?
BEN: realize it's all a little hectic right now, but this Paul Vitti thing is only temporary, okay?
MICHAEL: tenth fuckin' time.
BEN: Good night, Whippy.
MICHAEL: Good night, Whippy.
CUTE GIRL: I gotta get home. What was that I have no idea. Parenting stuff.
MICHAEL: I have no idea. Parenting stuff.
BEN: This has to be some kind of record, don't you think? It's been like forty How long are you going to let them go Let them? How much longer can he go? Another twenty minutes, I'm either breaking it up or calling the Guinness Book of Records.
LAURA: How long are you going to let them go Let them? How much longer can he go? Another twenty minutes, I'm either breaking it up or calling the Guinness Book of Records.
BEN: Let them? How much longer can he go? Another twenty minutes, I'm either breaking it up or calling the Guinness Book of Records.
LAURA: Oh, give me a break. She's got to be
BEN: ( suggestively ) That's not entirely true.
LAURA: Okay, sometimes you do sound like
CERRONE: Oh, come on. Nobody sounds like that.
VITTI: ( indignant ) I have a 17-year-old son.
BEN: ( indignant ) I have a 17-year-old son.
VITTI: So let him get his own fuckin' girl.
BEN: Can I talk to you, please?
VITTI: Actually, I'm right in the middle of
BEN: Miss? Excuse me. There's no smoking in this house.
BEN: What do you think you're doing?
VITTI: Minding my own fuckin' business, like you should be doin'.
BEN: Well, it's a little hard with the live sex show going on in the guest room.
VITTI: I've been in prison for two and a half years. What am I supposed to do?
BEN: Go to a hotel.
VITTI: That's what I wanted to do, but you told me I had no choice it was either here or Sing Sing.
BEN: I'm not trying to punish you. These aren't my rules, but I have a responsibility here. Besides, I thought you might like a nice home- cooked meal after being in prison that Yeah, that's what I've been jerkin' off about for eight hundred consecutive nights a nice home- cooked meal. Ohhhh, tuna casserole.
VITTI: Yeah, that's what I've been jerkin' off about for eight hundred consecutive nights a nice home- cooked meal. Ohhhh, tuna casserole.
BEN: That girl is not staying here.
VITTI: I think you're jealous.
BEN: Oh, yeah, I'm really jealous.
VITTI: I didn't hear nothin' comin' out of your room.
BEN: We don't think it's necessary to wake the neighbors every time we have sex.
VITTI: Hey, if you're really quiet, you might be able to do it without even wakin' up your wife.
VITTI: I told her if I wasn't back in two minutes to start without me. I gotta
BEN: This is not a good start, Paul.
LAURA: Aunt Ester, I'm so sorry we had to put you up at the hotel. We wanted you here with us, but we had an unexpected house guest.
AUNT ESTHER: ( sighs ) Your father always had room for us.
BEN: I'm sorry. Next time I lose a parent, I'll be sure to reserve the guest room.
SHEILA: ( screaming ) Go to hell, Paul! You just go to Go ahead! Get out of here, you crazy fuckin' whore.
VITTI: Go back to turning tricks in Jersey for all I fuckin' care.
VITTI: How's it goin'? Oh, we got food. Good.
LAURA: ( smiling ) ( quickly )
BEN: ( quickly )
VITTI: Oh, great. Jew food. Who do you have to fuck to get some bacon around here?
VITTI: Not you, I'm guessing.
BEN: ( snags Vitti's arm ) Why don't we go to my office? I'll make you a plate.
VITTI: What is it with your relatives? They tend to overreact quite a bit.
BEN: I know. All you did was flash everybody in the dining room.
VITTI: So? From the look of 'em, some of those broads haven't seen the old salcicc' in a long time. It's good for them.
BEN: Well, when the paramedics revive my Aunt Goldie, I'll be sure to ask her.
BEN: Ah ah ah!
BEN: So what are you going to do, Paul?
VITTI: What do you mean?
BEN: With your life.
VITTI: First I'm gonna find out who's tryin' to kill me. I'm a target. Somebody could shoot right through that window blow my fuckin' head off.
BEN: Okay, that's a priority. Have you thought about what you're going to do for work?
VITTI: Yeah. I'm too big for a jockey so I was thinkin' maybe a hairdresser. They'll call me Mr. Paul.
BEN: Come on. There must be something you like to do.
VITTI: I like hitting a guy on the head with a baseball bat.
BEN: Oh, sporting goods. We'll check the want ads tomorrow but don't get your hopes up. Anything else?
VITTI: Shylocking, bookmaking, unions, the Who are you?
BEN: Who are you?
VITTI: Who am I? I'm the guy who's paying you $150 an hour to play these stupid fuckin' games. You know who I am.
BEN: I know that. I mean what are you?
VITTI: What do you mean, 'What am I?'
BEN: I just want to know how you see You're making me very fuckin' nervous.
VITTI: You're making me very fuckin' nervous.
BEN: Just answer the question. What are I'm the boss.
VITTI: ( shrugs ) I'm the boss.
BEN: Really? The boss of what Jelly? You're not the boss of me. So what are you the boss of?
VITTI: You, you're good. I see what you're doing here.
BEN: What am I doing, Paul?
VITTI: You're pissing me off is what you're doing. Look at me. It's starting again, the anxiety.
BEN: I understand.
BEN: Well, let's think. When you were a kid, What did you want to be?
VITTI: I don't know. Who remembers that You must've wanted to be something when you were little fireman?
BEN: You must've wanted to be something when you were little fireman?
VITTI: Baseball player?
BEN: Baseball player?
VITTI: assholes all day?
BEN: assholes all day?
VITTI: assholes all day?
BEN: assholes all day?
VITTI: assholes all day?
BEN: assholes all day?
VITTI: assholes all day?
BEN: assholes all day?
VITTI: assholes all day?
BEN: a proctologist. I wanted to collect rare and unusual stamps.
VITTI: you were a kid. Lonely, huh?
BEN: want to be?
VITTI: ( a beat ) Okay. When I was really little like seven or eight maybe I wanted to be a cowboy.
BEN: ( a beat ) Okay. When I was really little like seven or eight maybe I wanted to be a cowboy.
VITTI: ( a beat ) Okay. When I was really little like seven or eight maybe I wanted to be a cowboy.
BEN: ( a beat ) Okay. When I was really little like seven or eight maybe I wanted to be a cowboy.
VITTI: ( a beat ) Okay. When I was really little like seven or eight maybe I wanted to be a cowboy.
BEN: suit you know, the vest, the chaps, the cap guns the whole thing. And he used to take me up to my uncle's farm in New Jersey and lead me around on this pony. Yippee-i-o. You happy now?
VITTI: suit you know, the vest, the chaps, the cap guns the whole thing. And he used to take me up to my uncle's farm in New Jersey and lead me around on this pony. Yippee-i-o. You happy now?
BEN: shows with your father.
VITTI: father loved 'Gunsmoke.'
BEN: ( corrects him ) Marshal Dillon.
VITTI: ( corrects him ) Marshal Dillon.
BEN: the Lone Ranger
VITTI: the Lone Ranger
BEN: the Lone Ranger
VITTI: the Lone Ranger
BEN: to be the bad guy. You wanted to be the hero.
VITTI: to be the bad guy. You wanted to be the hero.
BEN: to be the bad guy. You wanted to be the hero.
VITTI: Yeah, so?
BEN: So what happened?
VITTI: I don't know. Nothing happened.
BEN: So why didn't you become a cowboy?
VITTI: I lived in East Harlem! I joined a street gang when I was 12 and that was Something else happened when you were Something that made you very sad?
BEN: Something else happened when you were Something that made you very sad?
VITTI: ( prompting ) Something that made you very sad?
BEN: ( prompting ) Something that made you very sad?
VITTI: The Dodgers moved from Brooklyn to L.A. Everybody took it pretty hard.
BEN: Something else.
VITTI: We playin' a guessing game here?
BEN: Paul! Your father was murdered! Right in front of you. Remember?
VITTI: Do I remember? I think about it every fuckin' day of my life. What's that got to do with it?
BEN: It's got everything to do with it. He gave you the cowboy suit. With a white hat. He was in the mob, but he wanted you to be a good guy, didn't
VITTI: Yeah. He did.
BEN: He didn't want you in the gang life. He only did it himself so you wouldn't have to. He was trying to buy you a better life than his.
VITTI: ( crying harder ) He always said he wanted me to go to college. I didn't even finish high
BEN: Well, Paul, this could be a great opportunity for you. You're right back where you were when you were twelve. You've got some big choices to make.
VITTI: Okay. Okay. That's enough of that It's not shit, Paul. My point is, when you're a child, you think anything is possible. Wouldn't it be great to think like that now?
BEN: It's not shit, Paul. My point is, when you're a child, you think anything is possible. Wouldn't it be great to think like that now?
VITTI: ( retreating back into Yeah, just sprinkle some fuckin' fairy dust on me.
BEN: I'm just saying you've got to keep an open mind and explore some new possibilities. Try some different things maybe you'll connect with one of them. There's a career counselor I work with. I can call him for you. He may be able to help you find a job.
VITTI: You mean working for somebody? I'm supposed to take orders from some guy who used to get me coffee?
BEN: How do you know unless you try?
JELLY: ( calls out ) Hiya, Doc. Sorry about the window.
JELLY: I love lox and bagels. I dated a Jewish woman once. Actually, she might have been the love of my life, but my mother broke it up.
LAURA: ( noting mountain of More smoked salmon? Don't be shy.
BEN: Jelly what are you doing here?
JELLY: Makin' new friends. How's it going, Doc? I brought some clothes for Mr. That's great, Jelly. I'd love to catch up with you outside.
LAURA: ( indicating the door )
BEN: That's great, Jelly. I'd love to catch up with you outside.
JELLY: ( rising ) You got it. ( to Laura ) Thanks, Mrs. S. ( to others ) So long, everybody. Ess gesunterhait.
JELLY: So. Long time no see. You look good, And you, Jelly you look Did you get a haircut? I thought you were in prison.
BEN: ( trying to be pleasant ) And you, Jelly you look ( can't find words for Did you get a haircut? I thought you were in prison.
JELLY: It would appear not.
BEN: How'd you get out?
JELLY: New trial. The evidence in my first trail was, you know, tainted. Turns out two of the witnesses against me changed their minds and the third one, he died after a short illness.
BEN: What did he have?
JELLY: Gunshot wound to the head.
BEN: That's not an illness.
JELLY: Yeah, but it is short. Where are you going?
BEN: ( to Vitti ) Where are you going?
VITTI: I got stuff to do.
BEN: What kind of stuff?
VITTI: ( as he gets into Calm down. I'll be back.
BEN: You can't leave without my permission.
VITTI: Oh, yeah? Watch me. Drive, Jelly. That's it, Paul. I forbid you to go.
BEN: That's it, Paul. I forbid you to go.
VITTI: Stop sweating, Doc. I'll be back.
BEN: ( shouts anxiously ) If you screw this up, Paul Paul!
BEN: ( angrily ) Shit! Shit, shit, shit!
AUNT GOLDIE: So, the fat one he's single?
MASIELLO: Paulie, great to see you! You're lookin' good, kid. Lookin' very good. Jelly, how are ya?
MASIELLO: So, Paul, we heard you had some trouble while you were away. Some 'mental' problems.
VITTI: No, I'm okay. It was an act. I had to pretend I was nuts. There were people watching me all the time.
MASIELLO: Little people?
VITTI: Doctors. They never woulda let me out if they thought I was normal.
MASIELLO: So you ain't crazy?
VITTI: You want to see crazy? Just tell me who's trying to kill me. I'll show you crazy.
MASIELLO: We're in a war, Paul nobody's safe right now. The Rigazzis are walkin' all over us. We got next to nothing coming in, and I don't have to tell you, you don't buy a lot of muscle without money these days. We need you, Paul. The family needs you.
VITTI: I can't do it, Sal. I'm out of it.
MASIELLO: Come on, Paulie. Nobody used to do the big jobs like you. Air France they're still talkin' about it.
VITTI: Sal, even if I wanted to the feds
MASIELLO: After your father died, I always treated you like my own son. You know I know.
VITTI: I know.
MASIELLO: He was a good man. I still miss him.
VITTI: Yeah, I do too.
MASIELLO: So you'll think about it. For me, Yeah, okay, I'll think about it.
VITTI: Yeah, okay, I'll think about it.
MASIELLO: ( brightening ) Hey, what is this a fuckin' funeral here? You just got back from college for Chrissakes. We should be havin' a party for you. ( to bartender ) Hey, Nino, give everybody a round here. We gotta drink to Paul.
VITTI: I can't, Sal. I gotta go talk to the I understand. No problem. It's good to have you back, Paul. Don't forget what I said. We're countin' on you.
MASIELLO: I understand. No problem. It's good to have you back, Paul. Don't forget what I said. We're countin' on you.
EDDIE: Yeah, what?
VITTI: 'Yeah, what?' That's how you answer the door?
EDDIE: You got a problem with that?
VITTI: Vitti punches Eddie in the mouth, sending him sprawling back into the living room. Several other bodyguards are watching television, caught off guard by Vitti's sudden entrance.
VITTI: Where is she?
PATTY: Paul what a nice surprise.
VITTI: How's it goin', Patty?
PATTY: Good. It's good. Give me a kiss,
VITTI: Sorry to hear about Carmine. He was a good man.
PATTY: Yeah. You live with a person twenty- one years, then one day they're
VITTI: I'll bet especially with all the talk about you being the one who put him there.
PATTY: That's why I try not to gossip, Paul. It's ugly. Just a sec. Michelle! Teresa! It's ten-thirty! Stop fucking around and get ready for It's hard being a single parent and a career woman.
VITTI: Yeah, I'm sure you're very busy.
PATTY: The pressure it's awful. For instance, a lot of people think, now that you're out, you're going to try and take the family back from me. But I said, no, Paul would never do that. By the way, how are Marie and the kids? Still in Ohio? In Shaker Heights? At 1356 Locust?
VITTI: ( enraged ) You even go near them, you crazy bitch
PATTY: ( quietly ) Don't make me call my guys in. You may need the shit kicked out of you, but not in here. I just mopped.
PATTY: ( smoothing clothes, Wow. Have you been working out?
VITTI: Yeah, I been workin' out who's trying
PATTY: It's a dog-eat-dog world out there. Nobody's gonna be safe unless we can end this thing with the Rigazzis.
VITTI: So then you didn't have nothin' to do with it.
PATTY: ( hurt ) Oh, Paul. You actually think I would kill you? All the years we've known each other the Christmas parties, the fun times at the beach. It wouldn't be right. I want us to be ( smiles demurely ) Who knows? Maybe we'll be more than friends. Want to lick my beaters?
VITTI: ( declining ) Thanks. I gotta see a guy about a business thing.
PATTY: What kind of business? You know, if you get something going, we would expect some kind of consideration a little taste.
VITTI: No, this is a legitimate business.
PATTY: ( shudders ) Oh, Paul. I just got a chill.
VITTI: I just want to be left alone. Put my life back together straight up this time. Put the word out, will ya? Nobody's got nothin' to worry about from me.
PATTY: Sure, Paul. I understand.
PATTY: ( calls after him ) Don't be a stranger!
PATTY: ( turning to Eddie ) Watch him like a hawk. If he steps out of line, it would break my heart, but shoot him in the fuckin' head.
VITTI: Look at the size of that trunk. You could fit three people in there. Not people suitcases. It's a joke.
VITTI: So what are you driving now? We have a Lexus.
VITTI: ( nods ) It's a fancy Toyota, right? The Japs make good cars, but I ain't that quick to forget Pearl Harbor.
VITTI: ( signals the MAITRE D' ) Mario, put Mr. Torre at table five.
JOEY BOOTS: Paul, I heard you were out.
VITTI: Hey, Joey.
JOEY BOOTS: All dressed up for dinner, huh?
VITTI: The Maitre D' crosses away and waves at Vitti.
MAITRE D': Paul, that table for six is ready. You can send them back.
JOEY BOOTS: You're working here?
VITTI: ( dying ) Nah not really. It's like I'm on parole, so I just I come in, I greet people.
JOEY BOOTS: Okay. I get it. Nice seein' you, Paul. Don't want to hold you up. You got people to seat.
FLASH PHOTO: CUT TO: CUT TO:
ANOTHER PHOTO: CUT TO:
ANOTHER PH0TO: Thanks, Paul. Appreciate it.
BUSINESSMAN: Thanks, Paul. Appreciate it.
BUSINESSMAN: Hey, could you get us a big bottle of Pellegrino and another round of
BUSINESSMAN: And more bread when you get a chance.
VITTI: You want more bread?
VITTI: I'll get your drinks now.
YOUNG MAN: This stone is supposed to be a 'G' color, but it looks kind of yellow, doesn't it?
VITTI: ( distracted ) Fluorescent light. Makes everything look yellow.
FIANCEE: I thought fluorescent light makes everything look blue?
VITTI: ( sweating ) What am I Edison? I'm telling you, it's a 'G.'
YOUNG MAN: Can I look at it with a lens?
VITTI: ( completely distracted )
FIANCEE: A lens. Do you have a lens?
OWNER: Are you all right?
OWNER: Are you all right?
VITTI: I'm gonna do us both a big favor. I You want to see the manager? Here's the manager. Now take a hike, you fuckin' deadbeats.
VITTI: You want to see the manager? Here's the manager. Now take a hike, you fuckin' deadbeats.
VITTI: ( calls after them ) Get a Hyundai!
VITTI: ( distraught ) I can't deal with this shit. My grades suck, I'm gettin' in fights every day, and if I get suspended again my mother's gonna fuckin' kill me if the nuns don't kill me first.
BEN: ( nodding ) Eins, zwei, drei!
BEN: ( nodding ) Eins, zwei, drei!
VITTI: VITTI'S MOTHER is sitting next to him.
VITTI'S MOTHER: ( elbows him ) Sit up straight! Pay attention when the doctor talks to you. This is costing money.
VITTI: Ma? What are you doin' here?
VITTI'S MOTHER: I tell him the same thing.
DOOR: into the room by a gang of thugs, led by Patty LoPresti, Eddie DeVol and his guys, all at least ten-feet-tall and all holding huge guns.
VITTI: out a long sword. Confused but desperate, he holds up the sword to menace the intruders, but the sword suddenly goes limp. He tries to make the blade stand up, but it just keeps dropping like a piece of soft rope. Patty, Eddie, and the thugs laugh contemptuously at Vitti, while Jelly looks on with an incredible stream of tears pouring from his eyes.
LAURA: Now in here, I thought we'd get rid of the wallpaper and maybe put in some
LAURA: ( to decorator ) Don't look, don't look.
LAURA: Do you realize it's almost noon?
VITTI: Really? Do me a favor, honey make me a sandwich.
LAURA: You want a sandwich? Make it yourself. I'm not afraid of you, Mr. Oh-I'm-A-Great-Big-Mobster Man. I want you out of my house.
VITTI: Coulda had that sandwich made by now.
LAURA: ( tries new tack ) Okay. You don't like me and I don't like you. We can at least agree on that, right?
VITTI: I'm going to be honest with you I'm a very anxious person
LAURA: I'm going to be honest with you I'm a very anxious person
VITTI: Hey! Me, too.
LAURA: We have so much in common. Anyway, this is not helping me, it's not helping my marriage, and I know Ben really needs some alone time. So I'm asking you as a human being could you please leave? Yes, I'll make you a sandwich.
VITTI: Ham, cheese, lettuce, tomato, mayonnaise, no onion.
BEN: ( concerned ) Where are you going?
VITTI: Where am I going? The orphanage found my real parents. They want me back. Put those in the car. I'm goin' to Jelly's.
BEN: ( to Vitti ) The hell you are. You're supposed to be in my custody. We have therapy For what? The more we talk the worse I get. I had that dream again.
VITTI: For what? The more we talk the worse I get. I had that dream again.
BEN: The one where you're Mussolini?
VITTI: No, the other one.
BEN: The limp sword dream?
JELLY: ( at car ) I probably shouldn't be listening to So don't!
VITTI: So don't!
JELLY: ( to Vitti ) Do you think this dream might be I know what you're thinkin'. The sword is my cock and I can't get it up, but that ain't it. I saw Sheila last night and I had a hard-on you could swing from.
BEN: ( to Vitti ) Do you think this dream might be I know what you're thinkin'. The sword is my cock and I can't get it up, but that ain't it. I saw Sheila last night and I had a hard-on you could swing from.
VITTI: I know what you're thinkin'. The sword is my cock and I can't get it up, but that ain't it. I saw Sheila last night and I had a hard-on you could swing from.
BEN: ( winces ) I don't want to know that.
VITTI: You coulda hung wet towels on it.
JELLY: ( calls out ) He's like a racehorse in that area.
BEN: Okay! I get it.
VITTI: ( to Jelly ) Wait in the car! ( to Ben ) So what does it mean?
BEN: Sex can represent a lot of things. In your case I think it's about performance anxiety. Trying to find a job that fits.
VITTI: Doc nothing's gonna fit. That nine-to-five bullshit I'll fuckin' kill myself if I have to do that for the rest of my life. You know they take taxes out of your check? What the fuck is that? I'm doomed. I'm gonna end up selling hot dogs on the Look at me. I'm havin' a fuckin' panic attack here. My heart's beatin' like a rabbit.
BEN: You're hyperventilating.
BEN: Breathe into this.
VITTI: ( speaks through bag ) This is your fault.
BEN: Excuse me?
VITTI: Tellin' me I have to get a job like I'm some fuckin' nobody. It was humiliating! Thanks a lot.
BEN: ( jumps up, in a Hey, I'm doing the best I can! If you can't appreciate that, or if my best isn't good enough for you, then maybe you should find somebody else to talk to, you selfish prick!
BEN: What the hell was that?
VITTI: What the hell was that?
BEN: I'm fine. I'm grieving. It's a
VITTI: Now what are you takin'?
BEN: Echinacea and goldenseal. Do you know the TV show 'Little Caesar'?
VITTI: Yeah, I know it.
BEN: The producer of that show is a man
VITTI: For what?
BEN: Meet him and find out.
LAURA: We finally got him out of the house why are we having dinner with him? I mean, how professional is that?
BEN: This is not social. Paul's meeting a television producer who might have a job for him. He's nervous and wants me here as a buffer. I'm a buffer, that's all.
LAURA: He's a grown man. I don't see why he needs a chaperone.
BEN: He doesn't. He needs a buffer. I'm here in buffer capacity only.
LAURA: Ben, if you say 'buffer' one more time
LAURA: Didn't you just take two of those?
BEN: No, that was something else.
LAURA: Well, you better not drink anything. You know what happens.
BEN: Laura? I'm a doctor? I think I know what I'm doing.
BEN: ( quietly, behind ( into radio )
MILLER: ( into radio ) They're all inside. We're going to get something to eat. We'll be back before they finish dinner.
RAOUL: I adore this place. Best sushi in town. Have you tried the yellowtail, No. We gettin' any real food? This is like eatin' fuckin' bait.
VITTI: ( makes a face ) No. We gettin' any real food? This is like eatin' fuckin' bait.
BEN: Bait! That's funny. Honey, did you hear what Paul just said? He said this is like eating bait.
LAURA: ( not amused ) I heard him. And I think it was 'effing bait.'
VITTI: ( pointing to his Oh this? I took a couple ibuprofen before we got here I shouldn't have had the saki. I'll be fine. It only lasts a couple hours. ( to Raoul ) Rah-oo. Row. Rowl. I guess you need both lips for that name. You know what I love about Paul? He was born without a filter. He says exactly what he's thinking just lays it right out there. He doesn't edit himself.
BEN: ( pointing to his Oh this? I took a couple ibuprofen before we got here I shouldn't have had the saki. I'll be fine. It only lasts a couple hours. ( to Raoul ) Rah-oo. Row. Rowl. I guess you need both lips for that name. You know what I love about Paul? He was born without a filter. He says exactly what he's thinking just lays it right out there. He doesn't edit himself.
VITTI: ( pointing to his Oh this? I took a couple ibuprofen before we got here I shouldn't have had the saki. I'll be fine. It only lasts a couple hours. ( to Raoul ) Rah-oo. Row. Rowl. I guess you need both lips for that name. You know what I love about Paul? He was born without a filter. He says exactly what he's thinking just lays it right out there. He doesn't edit himself.
BEN: ( pointing to his Oh this? I took a couple ibuprofen before we got here I shouldn't have had the saki. I'll be fine. It only lasts a couple hours. ( to Raoul ) Rah-oo. Row. Rowl. I guess you need both lips for that name. You know what I love about Paul? He was born without a filter. He says exactly what he's thinking just lays it right out there. He doesn't edit himself.
VITTI: ( quietly ) You wanna shut the fuck up?
BEN: up. No filter. I love that. Isn't he great?
LAURA: ( aside to Ben ) Too much buffering. Way too much.
RAOUL: ( eyeing Ben oddly ) Yes. Paul, I'm such a huge fan of yours not a fan, but you know, an interested in working on 'Little Caesar' as a consultant? Give us technical advice, coach the actors, make sure the dialogue rings true
VITTI: interested in working on 'Little Caesar' as a consultant? Give us technical advice, coach the actors, make sure the dialogue rings true
RAOUL: interested in working on 'Little Caesar' as a consultant? Give us technical advice, coach the actors, make sure the dialogue rings true
BEN: Wow. That would be incredible. Did you hear that, Paul? Raoul wants to know if you'd be interested in working on his show as a consultant. You know, give technical advice, coach the In two seconds I'm gonna put a fork in your eye.
VITTI: ( quietly to Ben ) In two seconds I'm gonna put a fork in your eye.
BEN: ( suddenly cowed )
RAOUL: So what do you think, Paul?
VITTI: Yeah, sure, whatever.
RAOUL: This is so exciting. Mr. Berman, I love your show. Anthony Bella, the guy who plays Nicky Caesar I think he grew up in Bensonhurst next door to my cousin's friend's husband.
SHEILA: This is so exciting. Mr. Berman, I love your show. Anthony Bella, the guy who plays Nicky Caesar I think he grew up in Bensonhurst next door to my cousin's friend's husband.
VITTI: That's her claim to fame. I hate to bust your bubble, but he's not from Bensonhurst. He's a professional Italian. He grew up in Connecticut or something like that.
SHEILA: Well, wherever he's from, I think he's a wonderful actor.
JELLY: Yeah, I bet he gets a lot of pussy.
VITTI: What's the matter with you? We got women at the table.
JELLY: You said 'fuckin'.'
VITTI: That's different. It's colorful.
BEN: Hey, speaking of colorful this peacock walks into a bar
LAURA: Oh, my god. Could I get another one, please?
BEN: And one for me.
LAURA: No. No more for the Buffer.
VITTI: ( tries a desperate save ) So. I see in the paper where Oklahoma! might win the Tony award.
VITTI: ( shouts )
BEN'S TABLE: ( to Vitti ) What the hell was that?
BEN: ( to Vitti ) What the hell was that?
VITTI: I think somebody's got it in for
RAOUL: ( wide-eyed ) Holy fucking shit. ( grinning ) That was phenomenal!
JELLY: Hey, pal got a light?
GUNMAN: Where's your cigarette?
JELLY: I'm trying to cut down.
LAURA: I don't know why you feel you have to save this man.
BEN: It's my job. He needs me.
LAURA: So that automatically means you have to help him? You're always doing this putting other people's needs ahead of your own, like you're this martyr or saint or something. It's like living with Mother Teresa.
BEN: Actually, I hear she was tough to live with. Lot of parties, loud music You don't need this in your life especially not now. You really need to be grieving for your I am.
LAURA: You don't need this in your life especially not now. You really need to be grieving for your I am.
BEN: I am.
LAURA: Really? I haven't seen it.
BEN: Well, you know, it's a process. I mean, we had issues there's some anger but I'll work it out.
LAURA: It's okay, honey. You can let it go.
BEN: No, I'm it's okay.
BEN: It's just a confusing time. I became a therapist because he was a therapist, so obviously his approval was very important to me. But is that the only reason I did it? I don't know. And now that he's gone, why do I keep doing it? Is this what I really want?
LAURA: I just want you to be happy.
BEN: Maybe you're right. Maybe it's time I started focusing on me, and, you know, satisfying some of
LAURA: ( apologetic ) Oh, honey, I just brushed my teeth.
BEN: No, that's not what I meant. I just I don't know what.
VITTI: I'm gonna ask you once nicely. Who you working for?
GUNMAN: Fuck you.
VITTI: Fuck me? Fine. Jelly?
VITTI: I'll ask you again. Who you working
JELLY: He's screamin' too loud. Hold on a
JELLY: Go ahead.
VITTI: Who are you working for?
GUNMAN: Drop him, Jelly.
VITTI: Drop him, Jelly.
GUNMAN: Okay! Okay! Rigazzi! I'm working for Rigazzi!
VITTI: Pull him back up.
VITTI: What's the matter with you?
JELLY: You said drop him.
VITTI: I said pull him back up.
JELLY: That's not what I heard.
VITTI: You heard what you wanted to hear.
JELLY: Okay, you got me there.
RIGAZZI: What the hell happened to you?
GUNMAN: Vitti threw me off a roof.
RIGAZZI: Vitti? You talked to Vitti? What did you say to him?
GUNMAN: Nothing. I didn't tell him anything. Mr. Rigazzi, can I go I think my leg's broken.
RIGAZZI: That must hurt. I hate to see people in pain. Get him out of here.
RIGAZZI: I hate to see people in pain. Get him out of here.
SOLDIER: What about Vitti?
RIGAZZI: ( musing ) He's a hard man to kill. But he's not immortal. Our time will come.
CAESAR: I like mine burnt.
MELLO: I don't know how you like your sausage? Twenty fuckin' years we been doin' this. So you got the money?
CAESAR: ( coughing, eyes Not all of it. I'm still light about fifteen large. ( blinded by smoke ) Can we cut? This is ridiculous.
RAOUL: ( to Vitti ) This is the problem with shooting on location. But it's worth it for the Yeah, this is real authentic.
VITTI: Yeah, this is real authentic.
RAOUL: ( calls out ) Tony! Come here a second. ( to Vitti ) Anthony Bella. He plays Nicky Caesar.
VITTI: I know who he is. They used to watch the show up at Sing Sing.
RAOUL: ( delighted ) Are you shitting me?
RAOUL: Tony, this is Paul Vitti.
TONY BELLA: ( Australian accent ) You don't have to tell me who he is. ( shakes Paul's hand ) It's a pleasure, mate.
VITTI: ( reacting to accent ) Mate? I don't believe this! You're an English guy? You ain't even Australian-Italian. We got some paisans down under.
TONY BELLA: Australian-Italian. We got some paisans down under.
VITTI: Down under what?
RAOUL: ( to Tony Bella ) How incredible is this? Paul tells me they watch the show in Sing Sing!
TONY BELLA: Fantastic! That's so fuckin' great.
VITTI: I wouldn't wet my pants over it. They watch 'Supermarket Sweep,' too.
VITTI: You laugh too much.
TONY BELLA: So, Paul, you going to join us?
VITTI: Yeah. You got a good setup here.
TONY BELLA: Great. See you later then.
VITTI: Coupla things, though. I don't know who makes these decisions, but some of this, it don't look right.
RAOUL: ( concerned ) I sensed it myself. Which elements strike you as wrong?
VITTI: The people mainly. I mean, you got a boss who speaks Australian. What the fuck is that? And I'm guessing your
RAOUL: The theater, mostly.
VITTI: Yeah, the theater. So how about if I bring in some guys that I know you know, more 'authentic.'
RAOUL: I would be eternally grateful. Anything else?
VITTI: ( thinks ) Yeah. One of those trailers like the stars have.
RAOUL: ( slight hesitation ) ( shakes his hand ) I'll put that in the works right now. You really gonna do this?
JELLY: You really gonna do this?
VITTI: No fuckin' way. I've had it with this job bullshit. A week of this and I'd either shoot myself or shoot Raoul. But it's good cover while I figure out my next move. Call the guys.
JELLY: You got it.
MONTAGE: and eight or nine other wiseguys walk en masse into base Vitti's guys go to the front of the lunch line, forcing the crew aside. A big, pop-out trailer labeled "Mr. Vitti," guarded by three of his guys. Tuna brings a lunch tray and knocks on the door. Jelly opens the door and takes the tray. Vitti conferring with Raoul and Tony Bella on the script,
VITTI: Yeah, ten minutes, tell 'em. Walk this way.
SOLDIER: Walk this way.
BEN: There must be some mistake. I didn't order a limo.
SOLDIER: Get in the car.
BEN: ( nervous, but trying Hello. I'm Ben Sobel. And you are
MASIELLO: You're the shrink who's taking care of Paul Vitti?
BEN: Yes, sir. That's right. Could you be careful, because I think they put the eggs on the bottom.
MASIELLO: So? Is he nuts or what?
BEN: Paulie. Is he nuts?
MASIELLO: Paulie. Is he nuts?
BEN: I can't discuss a patient's case with Discuss it.
MASIELLO: Discuss it.
BEN: I'd say he's still suffering from chronic anxiety and
MASIELLO: And what.
BEN: We call it Antisocial Personality Disorder. Sociopathy.
MASIELLO: Meaning what?
BEN: ( very carefully ) Meaning he fails to conform to societal norms with respect to lawful behavior.
MASIELLO: I'm getting a fuckin' headache here.
BEN: He's got a criminal temperament.
MASIELLO: ( stares at him ) He's a criminal? This is news? And for that you need a doctor degree? So what are you doin' with Well, I'm trying to at least show him the possibility of change
BEN: Well, I'm trying to at least show him the possibility of change
PATTY: Wrong. You do not want him to change.
BEN: We haven't really been This is Mrs. LoPresti.
MASIELLO: This is Mrs. LoPresti.
PATTY: Ben Sobel.
BEN: Ben Sobel.
PATTY: Ben, Paul Vitti is important to this family. We don't want to see you turn him into a stromboni.
BEN: A stromboni? That thing they clean the ice with at hockey games?
MASIELLO: That's a Zamboni, asshole. Stromboni.
PATTY: It's a bull with his balls cut off.
BEN: ( squeezed ) No, we don't want to do that.
PATTY: Not unless you want to be one, too.
BEN: ( in pain ) Me? No. I'm very attached to my balls. As you can probably tell.
PATTY: ( lets go ) Then do the right thing, understand?
BEN: ( greatly relieved ) Yes, I understand completely. May I go now? I have perishables
VITTI: We're gonna need a grapple or a crane with maybe a fifty-foot boom.
VITTI: See what you can come up with. And we're gonna need a city bus.
JELLY: I got a guy in the Transit Authority. He owes me. Just let me know when.
PATTY: I guess everybody's gone Hollywood, How you doin', Patty.
VITTI: How you doin', Patty.
PATTY: Jelly you're working here, too?
JELLY: I'm an extra.
PATTY: An extra what?
JELLY: A supernumerary. An 'atmosphere.' It ain't bad. You just stand around all day waitin' for them to shoot and they pay you eighty bucks.
PATTY: Eighty bucks? For standin' around all day? You used to sneeze eighty bucks. How much you make shootin' craps?
JELLY: Today? About eight hundred maybe.
PATTY: And how about bookin' bets for the Teamsters and the crew?
JELLY: Another grand. One of the producers really likes the ponies.
PATTY: So eighteen hundred bucks.
JELLY: Plus eighty
PATTY: I know extra.
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: This is a closed set. We're about to start shooting.
EDDIE: Yeah? So am I.
DRIVER: Should I wait here, Mr. Rigazzi?
RIGAZZI: No, pull the car up your ass and wait I heard you had some more trouble.
PATTY: I heard you had some more trouble.
VITTI: One of Rigazzi's guys took a shot at
PATTY: I don't have to tell you, Paul. Alone on the street you don't stand a chance. That's what the family's all about. Since the old days, when the grandfathers first came over. That's not something you just walk away from.
VITTI: Yeah, I know. When you're a Jet, you're a Jet all the way.
PATTY: So you want to tell me what's going on here? It looks like you got your whole crew back together.
VITTI: Nothing's going on. They're actors.
PATTY: Don't bullshit me, Paul. You're planning something. I'm feeling very left out.
VITTI: ( quietly ) Okay. Something big is going down, but you're getting a cut. My hand to You're a good friend, Paul. And I would never think of insisting on this, but I'd feel better if you brought in Eddie and some of my guys to help with the job.
PATTY: You're a good friend, Paul. And I would never think of insisting on this, but I'd feel better if you brought in Eddie and some of my guys to help with the job.
VITTI: I don't think so.
PATTY: Then I'll have to insist.
VITTI: Raoul approaches and eyes Patty disdainfully.
RAOUL: Oh, dear God. First of all, sweetheart, we're not shooting the hooker scene until tomorrow. And the hair please, what is that?
PATTY: Excuse me?
VITTI: Raoul, this is a friend of mine. Patty LoPresti.
RAOUL: Mrs. LoPresti I am so very, very
RAOUL: How dare you not inform me Mrs. LoPresti was on the set. You're Enjoy your visit with us. If there's anything I can do
PATTY: Go fuck yourself.
RAOUL: Raoul moves away quickly. Patty turns back to Vitti.
PATTY: It's good to have you back, Paul.
RAOUL: I mean, tell me was she angry? Am I in any danger?
VITTI: No, you're fine. But you might want to have somebody else start your car the next couple of weeks.
RAOUL: I'll have Brian do it. He's new.
RIGAZZI: ( to Vitti ) Could I talk to you for a second?
RAOUL: ( eyeing Rigazzi ) Oh, what is this now, the bus and truck tour of Guys and Dolls?
VITTI: This is Lou Rigazzi.
RAOUL: ( a horrified whisper ) 'The Wrench.'
RIGAZZI: Get lost.
RAOUL: ( as he exits ) Brian! Get my car!
RIGAZZI: ( to Vitti ) I need a couple minutes.
VITTI: ( nodding ) This way.
RIGAZZI: The guy who shot at you he was acting on his own. I never gave an Is that right?
VITTI: Is that right?
RIGAZZI: And he's been taken care of. There won't be another incident. Unless you're thinkin' of workin' for Patty Me? No.
VITTI: Me? No.
RIGAZZI: Good. Then I got no beef with you.
VITTI: Thanks. I'll sleep much better.
RIGAZZI: Because that would not be the way to go. You want to back a winner, which is gonna be me. It only makes sense. You come work for us. I'll treat you I don't think so.
VITTI: I don't think so.
RIGAZZI: ( a beat ) Well, so much for sleeping better. Hey, Dr. Sobel?
JELLY: Hey, Dr. Sobel?
BEN: Jelly, hi. Hey! Yo-Yo!
JELLY: It's Mo-Mo.
BEN: Right. I was thinking of the cellist. How's it going?
TUNA: I'm up for a recurring on 'NYPD Blue.'
BEN: That's great. Have you seen Paul?
JELLY: Yeah, I think he's in his camper.
BEN: His camper.
VITTI: ( surprised to see him ) Hey, Doc. What are you doing here?
BEN: No, what are you doing here? I came to tell you we have a preliminary meeting with your parole officer and who do I run into? Patty LoPresti.
VITTI: Patty who?
BEN: What is this a knock-knock joke? to-cut-off-my-balls. Stop lying to me, Paul. Your whole gang is here.
VITTI: Who says I'm lying? I finally get a straight job and start putting my life in order and you come in here and start accusing me! That's how much you trust me?
BEN: ( off balance ) It's not that I don't trust you, I just don't trust you. Are you lying to me? Because I know you, Paul. You'll say or do anything to get your own way.
VITTI: This is what's so hard about being an ex-con. You make one little mistake in your life and people never let you forget it.
BEN: Oh, so now you're the victim? I want the truth.
VITTI: Wait a second. Say that again.
BEN: Say what?
VITTI: 'I want the truth.' Say it like you did just now.
BEN: I want the truth?
VITTI: No, strong, like before.
BEN: ( forceful ) I want the truth!
VITTI: Yeah, that's good!
BEN: No, I'm serious. That had power. I believed it. You could be an actor.
VITTI: No, I'm serious. That had power. I believed it. You could be an actor.
BEN: I'm not an actor
VITTI: Hey, you're as good as most of the bums I see around here. They have this part. You could do it.
BEN: Actually, I did The Music Man in tenth Of course. I'm gonna talk to Raoul.
VITTI: Of course. I'm gonna talk to Raoul.
BEN: About being on the show? I couldn't -
VITTI: No, this part you could do. It's perfect. Believe me.
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: We're rolling.
SOUNDMAN: Sound speed.
RAOUL: ( shouts )
ON ROOFTOP: Jelly and Tony Bella drag Ben kicking and screaming to the edge of the roof and hang him over the edge. On the ground, Raoul and Vitti look up, watching the action.
RAOUL: ( doubtful ) Does that screaming sound real to you?
VITTI: Oh, yeah. That sounds real.
BEN: It's not funny! There was no safety harness or anything. They could have dropped me.
VITTI: Hey, if you didn't want to do it, why didn't you say something?
BEN: I know exactly what that was about. You resent the fact that you've been put in my custody, so you passive- aggressively arranged things to make me look like a fool.
VITTI: Come on you were great.
BEN: ( turning on a dime ) Really? I was scared at first, but on the second take, I think I found some good stuff. I was able to texture the
BEN: Oh, screw you, Paul. Just screw you.
VITTI: What, are you self-medicating again? And don't give that decongestant multi-vitamin bullshit.
BEN: Don't worry about me. Just worry about what you're going to say to this parole officer. What are you going to say? That you've moved out of my house. That you've got your old gang back together. For what, a high school drop-out reunion?
VITTI: I'm gonna say that's none of his fuckin' business.
BEN: It's my business. I want to know. I'm a federal institution.
VITTI: ( checks side- You recognize that car?
BEN: Which car?
VITTI: The one that's been following us the last mile and a half.
VITTI: Lose 'em.
BEN: What do you mean, 'lose 'em'?
BEN: Maybe I should just pull over. It could be the F.B.I.
VITTI: No, they're two cars back. You gotta be a little more observant, Doc. Turn
BEN: What if we just stop and get out? They're not going to shoot us in broad Broad daylight's the best time. You can see better. Take a right. Now!
VITTI: Broad daylight's the best time. You can see better. Take a right. Now!
BEN: the cash, blocking the drive-thru, forcing Miller in the FBI car to stop.
MERCEDES: the cash, blocking the drive-thru, forcing Miller in the FBI car to stop.
BEN: ( frantic ) We can't do this, Paul! We have to stop! This is a lease!
BEN: ( shouting back at It's a goddamn lease!
VITTI: ( looks back ) Move over. I'll drive.
BEN: Move over? Where?
VITTI: Backseat. Now!
BEN: Seat belt.
VITTI: ( determined ) Hang on.
BEN: It's gonna get worse?
BEN: They're right behind us! Get away!
VITTI: What the fuck are you doing?
BEN: I wanted to save the crossword.
VITTI: Throw it!
BEN: ( aghast ) You think they'll get out?
VITTI: Yeah, that's James Bond and the 'Sea Hunt' guy in there, so they got a pretty good shot.
BEN: Where're you going?
VITTI: I gotta take care of something.
BEN: But your parole officer
VITTI: Send my regrets.
BEN: I'm warning you. If you leave now
VITTI: So long, Doc. That's it! I'm finished! You're on your own now, pal! I'm
BEN: ( calling after him ) That's it! I'm finished! You're on your own now, pal! I'm
BEN: ( quietly )
CHAPIN: Where is he, Dr. Sobel?
BEN: I wish I knew.
CHAPIN: Well, considering that he's in your custody, that's not quite the answer I was looking for. He's got something big in the works. You want to tell me what you know?
BEN: I don't know anything. As far as I can tell, he's making a real effort to go straight.
CHAPIN: Yeah, that's why I've got two corpses at the bottom of the river.
CHAPIN: Here. Vitti with Sal Masiello. Vitti with Patty LoPresti. Vitti with Lou Rigazzi. Let me know I can order some wallet size for you. I've got more than enough to put him away again without these. Violation of parole, second-degree murder here. When I really start digging, it'll be amazing
BEN: I'm getting that. Can I go now?
CHAPIN: You can't take your car. We're impounding it as evidence.
BEN: ( exasperated ) Then can somebody give me a ride home?
CHAPIN: Yeah, the government runs a limousine service. The number is 1-800-Fuck
VITTI: I don't have a lot of time. They're probably gonna come lookin' for me, so we'll go over everything later, okay?
JELLY: Paul, not that I'm questioning, but what do we want with Eddie DeVol? Guy's a fuckin' scumbag.
VITTI: Look, I'm not happy about it, but if it keeps Patty off my back, so be it. They're meeting us at the club. Let's head out. Not all at once. I gotta tell you Mr. Vitti? Mr. Bella asked if you could meet him in the makeup trailer.
VITTI: No, I gotta go.
VITTI: ( annoyed ) I'll talk to him tomorrow.
VITTI: Here tell him you couldn't find me.
TONY BELLA: Paul! Excellent!
VITTI: Can't really talk right now, mate. Headin' out.
TONY BELLA: Two seconds. Please, Paul. It's really important.
TONY BELLA: ( script in hand ) I'm looking for something to do when my character finds out he's being indicted. I was thinking of punching the wall, but I did that when they killed Uncle Lenny, and I did it again
VITTI: Try kickin' something. Let me know how it works out.
TONY BELLA: Wait, Paul. That's interesting. Like I don't know. You could kick a guy in the face.
VITTI: ( impatient ) I don't know. You could kick a guy in the face.
TONY BELLA: ( irritated ) Just some guy! You knock him down, give him a couple quick kicks in the head while he's on the ground.
VITTI: ( irritated ) Just some guy! You knock him down, give him a couple quick kicks in the head while he's on the ground.
TONY BELLA: Why not? Because he's there and you're pissed off.
VITTI: Why not? Because he's there and you're pissed off.
TONY BELLA: You've done that?
VITTI: Maybe once or twice. Look, I got people waiting.
TONY BELLA: ( thinks about it, My character wouldn't do that. What ( at a loss, getting I don't know. You could yell real Yell real loud? That's original.
VITTI: ( at a loss, getting I don't know. You could yell real Yell real loud? That's original.
TONY BELLA: Yell real loud? That's original.
VITTI: ( pops ) Or keep your fuckin' mouth shut! Who gives a shit what you do, for cryin' out loud?
TONY BELLA: ( imitates him ) Who gives a shit what you do, for cryin' out loud?
VITTI: What are you doin'?
TONY BELLA: What are you doin'?
VITTI: ( irritated ) Okay, you can cut that shit out right Okay, you can cut that shit out right ( menacing ) Hey, I'm serious, asshole!
TONY BELLA: Okay, you can cut that shit out right Hey, I'm serious, asshole!
VITTI: ( menacing ) Hey, I'm serious, asshole!
TONY BELLA: Hey, I'm serious, asshole!
TONY BELLA: That was good. My character could do Jelly! Where's Paul?
BEN: ( irritated ) Jelly! Where's Paul?
BEN: Michael? What are you doing?
MICHAEL: ( pleasantly You got a job? That's great. Look how handsome you look in that suit. What's the job?
BEN: ( pleasantly You got a job? That's great. Look how handsome you look in that suit. What's the job?
MICHAEL: ( reluctantly ) I'm working for Mr. Vitti. I'm his Oh, no, you're not!
BEN: Oh, no, you're not!
MICHAEL: You keep telling me to get a job!
BEN: I meant making sandwiches at the Subway, not driving a getaway car!
MICHAEL: He's paying me twenty dollars an hour.
BEN: I don't care if he pays you two hundred an hour, you're not doing it.
MICHAEL: He had no right to ask you without my permission. Where is he?
BEN: He had no right to ask you without my permission. Where is he?
MICHAEL: I can't tell you.
BEN: What do you mean you can't tell me?
MICHAEL: I promised I'd never repeat anything I heard in the car. I took an oath.
BEN: You took an oath! Oh, my God! Was there blood involved?
MICHAEL: Dad, I gave my word.
LAURA: Ben? Where've you been? What happened to you?
BEN: ( minimizing ) I was in a car chase. There was a little shooting not that much really then they drove into the river. It wasn't as bad as it sounds.
LAURA: When is this going to end?
BEN: Tonight, I hope. I just have to find him and
LAURA: Why? A few days ago you weren't even sure you still wanted to be a therapist. Now you're going to risk your life again for that lout.
BEN: Yeah, but he's an amazing lout, isn't he? I can't quit now. You know that.
LAURA: ( relents ) Go. Just don't get shot please?
BEN: I love you.
BEN: All right, where is he?
MICHAEL: I can't.
LAURA: ( pops ) You tell your father right now or I'll give you such a smack it won't even be Okay! I dropped him at the club.
MICHAEL: ( surprised ) Okay! I dropped him at the club.
BEN: What club?
MICHAEL: Little Darling's in Queens.
BEN: Okay, Mafiaboy, give me your car keys.
MICHAEL: I'm grounded?
BEN: No, I'm borrowing your car.
BEN: ( yelling over music ) Hey, Doc. What are you doin' here?
JELLY: ( yelling over music ) Hey, Doc. What are you doin' here?
BEN: Where's Paul?
JELLY: I think she likes you, Doc. Give her a couple of bucks.
BEN: Can you break a twenty?
BEN: Do I just make my own change?
BEN: ( calls to her ) A ten and five ones when you have the chance.
BEN: Okay, Paul, what's going on?
VITTI: ( keyed up ) What are you doing here?
BEN: I could ask you the same thing.
VITTI: What's it look like? We're just blowin' off a little steam. What's the big deal?
EDDIE: How's it goin', Paulie? You know my guys Enormous Bobby and Al Pacino?
VITTI: ( looks at him ) Al Pacino? That's your real name?
AL PACINO: No. People call me that because I look like Al Pacino. The actor.
VITTI: Anybody ever call you Carol Burnett?
AL PACINO: No. Why?
VITTI: 'Cause you look about as much like Carol Burnett as you look like Al
BEN: I do see a little Pacino there around the eyes.
EDDIE: So we're all here. Let's do it.
BEN: ( stops Vitti ) Let's do what?
VITTI: You better get out of here.
BEN: ( lays a hand I'm not going until you tell me what's going on here.
VITTI: ( menacing ) Don't make me hurt you. Get the fuck out of here.
VITTI: Okay, this is big and we only get one shot at it; and there's only about a million ways this fuckin' thing can go bad, so listen up.
VITTI: The Federal Gold Depository in Lower Manhattan. Three times a year a shipment of gold bars goes in a heavily-guarded armored truck from the Depository to the vault at the Federal Reserve to hold for foreign governments that trade in bullion. At three o'clock in the morning eight hours from now we're gonna hijack that truck.
EDDIE: What the fuck is this?
ENORMOUS BOBBY: I found this guy listening at the Hey, guys. How's it going?
BEN: ( dazed ) Hey, guys. How's it going?
EDDIE: Who is this guy?
BEN: ( not looking Ben Sobel. Sorry, I can't move my head to the right. Boy, I hope that's not permanent.
EDDIE: Get rid of him.
BEN: ( still dazed ) Hi, Carol.
AL PACINO: You're a dead man, asshole. Let's go.
VITTI: What are you doing?
EDDIE: What do you think? He can make every guy in this room.
BEN: Oh, I'm not into that, fellas.
VITTI: Get your fuckin' hands off him! He's with me.
EDDIE: What, on the job?
EDDIE: ( impatiently ) Either he's in, or he's dead. Which is it?
BEN: I think in is better.
VITTI: ( reluctantly ) He's in. He's my responsibility.
EDDIE: ( to Vitti ) Okay, no more surprises. And from this moment on, no one leaves my sight. Got it? Now go through it one more time.
VITTI: Okay everybody listen up.
BEN: ( sits )
CERRONE: ( yawns, checks watch ) I wonder what it costs to keep that many limos waiting for three-and-a- half hours.
THEIR POV: club and get into the limos.
MILLER: Where's Vitti? I don't see Vitti. Damn it!
CERRONE: Damn it!
JELLY: Here. See if this'll fit under your I could fit you under my shirt. Don't they have anything smaller?
BEN: ( extremely nervous ) I could fit you under my shirt. Don't they have anything smaller?
JELLY: This ain't Bloomingdale's. Nobody knew you were comin'. You're lucky you're alive, Doc.
BEN: ( hisses ) Nobody's going to be alive when this is over. What kind of plan is this? It's crazy. It's stupid!
JELLY: Watch it. It may be crazy but it ain't stupid. If you want to stay alive, just keep your mouth shut, do everything I tell you and try not to pee in your pants. Can you handle an M-16?
BEN: You mean shoot it?
JELLY: No, I mean twirl it like a fuckin' baton. How about an A.K.?
BEN: ( exasperated ) ( rummaging through pile )
JELLY: ( rummaging through Kalashnikov, MAC-10, Uzi stop me if I hit one you like. Couldn't I just take this?
BEN: Couldn't I just take this?
JELLY: Yeah, that's a good one. That gun brings back a lot of fond memories. Use it in good health.
BEN: ( winces ) Ooh, cold cold.
BEN: ( explaining ) My gun fell down in my
VITTI: ( to Jelly ) Check the bus.
VITTI: ( quietly, to Ben ) If we can, I'm gonna get you out before the real shit goes down. Just don't flip out on me, okay?
BEN: You are making a huge mistake. You know that, don't you?
VITTI: You said it yourself. It's my nature.
BEN: It's not your nature! You have a What are you, fucking Jiminy Cricket? I don't know what planet you live on, but here on Earth it's 'might makes right.' Read the papers. The guys with the guns make the rules.
VITTI: What are you, fucking Jiminy Cricket? I don't know what planet you live on, but here on Earth it's 'might makes right.' Read the papers. The guys with the guns make the rules.
BEN: ( holding up the So I guess that makes me a real man now. What happened to the white hat, Paul? Your father wasn't wrong. You could be one of the good guys.
VITTI: Enough. Say one more word about my father and I'll break your fuckin'
BEN: ( quietly )
VITTI: ( checks his watch ) I have five to three. They should start movin' any minute.
BEN: ( looking at his watch ) I have three-o-six.
VITTI: Let's see your watch.
VITTI: scaffold high above the street. When the trucks are in the right position, he waves to Vitti on the ground.
SPOTTER: scaffold high above the street. When the trucks are in the right position, he waves to Vitti on the ground.
VITTI: ( on walkie )
VITTI: ( on walkie )
BEN: Paul, it's not too late. Don't do Let's go.
VITTI: Let's go.
BEN: Shit! Ow!
VITTI: his men finish cutting through the steel plate doors. Vitti yanks the doors open.. Vitti and Ben stare in awe at the exposed contents of the truck a fortune in gold bars.
VITTI: ( shouts ) Get the ramp!
EDDIE: ( very excited ) You know, this might just fuckin' You're gonna get in so much trouble.
BEN: You're gonna get in so much trouble.
LIEUTENANT: They can't get over the wire.
CAPTAIN: Then knock down the gates!
VITTI: ( pops his head in ) Forty bars. That's all we need.
BEN: How much is that?
VITTI: $350 an ounce, 16 ounces in a pound, 90 pounds in each bar do the math.
JELLY: ( a beat ) Actually, gold is measured in troy ounces. 14.6 ounces to the pound. That would be. $18,396,000.
BEN: Give or take.
JELLY: Give or take.
BEN: Well, so much for not peeing in my
BEN: You know what you said about not flipping out?
VITTI: ( flipping out ) What did I do? What did I do? I had a perfect life, I threw it away.
BEN: ( flipping out ) What did I do? What did I do? I had a perfect life, I threw it away.
VITTI: Don't do this.
BEN: I can't help it! My life is over! I'm going to jail. Some people can handle prison I'm not one of them. I have delicate features. I'm small. I'll be way too popular!
VITTI: Calm down.
BEN: I can't calm down! I'm gonna die!
VITTI: You're not gonna die!
BEN: I can't breathe! I'm suffocating!
VITTI: ( shaking him ) For Chrissake, get hold of yourself!
BEN: I can't! I'm dying! We're all going to die! Did I just hit you?
BEN: Did I just hit you?
VITTI: Yeah. Feel better now?
BEN: ( breaking down ) I'm sorry, Paul. I blame myself for this. I wanted to help you. I wanted to be there for you. But I just wasn't good enough.
VITTI: You were good. It isn't your fault.
BEN: No, it is. Since my father I've lost my way. I don't know anything anymore. I mean, what's the point? I didn't think it would hit me so hard
VITTI: Would you just shut up about your I'm grieving, goddammit! Have a little respect!
BEN: I'm grieving, goddammit! Have a little respect!
VITTI: He was an asshole you said it yourself. What are you grieving for?
BEN: I'm grieving for myself, you fucking
VITTI: ( surprised, shrugs ) Jeez, I'm sorry.
BEN: Now I know how you must have felt when your father was killed.
BEN: ( crying more ) I mean, it had to be ten times worse for you being murdered right in front of you. And you were so young -
VITTI: We don't have time for this.
BEN: ( really sobbing ) It must've been so painful!
VITTI: ( eyes filling with I'm warning you don't do I mean, it's like all his hopes for you died with him. And that's so sad.
BEN: I mean, it's like all his hopes for you died with him. And that's so sad.
VITTI: ( starting to cry ) There I go. You happy now? You see what you're doing here?
BEN: Your father really loved you.
VITTI: I loved him, too. I did.
BEN: ( hugs him ) I know. I know. Oh, boy. This is bad.
JELLY: Oh, boy. This is bad.
JELLY: Maybe we oughta should go.
EDDIE: Did you really think you were gonna live through this?
VITTI: I had my hopes.
EDDIE: Yeah, well, nice work. Mr. Rigazzi will be very grateful.
BEN: ( to Vitti ) Rigazzi? I thought he worked for Patti LoPresti.
VITTI: That's what Patty thought, too. This scumbag's been playin' both sides against the middle.
EDDIE: There's only one side as far as I'm concerned. Mine. What did you think? I was just gonna stand by and let some fuckin' has-been move back in? So long, Mr. Vitti.
BEN: ( beating the shit I can't take it anymore! That's what I hate about you fucking sociopaths! You just keep changing the rules to suit yourselves. Well, not this time, you anti-social asshole. You fucked with the wrong shrink! Don't you read the papers? The guy
BEN: Don't you read the papers? The guy
VITTI: Yeah, what?
CAPTAIN: ( screaming ) On the floor! Face-down! Now!
AL PACINO: ( to Eddie ) Nice goin'. Good plan.
ENORMOUS BOBBY: What's a sociopath?
SWAT LEADER: They're escaping out the back! Get over there! Move it!
NEXT BLOCK: in progress. Wiseguys are FIRING AUTOMATIC WEAPONS at cops who are pinned down behind police cruisers. The Captain of the marshals FIRES a warning SHOT in the air.
CAPTAIN: ( on a bullhorn ) Freeze! Drop your weapons!
TONY BELLA: What the hell is this?
RAOUL: ( to the Captain ) Who are you? What are you doing in my
CAPTAIN: What are you doing on my street?
RAOUL: I have a permit!
CAPTAIN: I don't give a shit about your permit!
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: All right, people. Back to one and let's try it again! Release the traffic and reset for another take.
BEN: ( sees them coming ) That's it. We're screwed.
LEAD SWAT: Yes, Officer?
BEN: Yes, Officer?
LEAD SWAT: You're one tough shrink.
BEN: Feeling pretty good, huh?
VITTI: I felt worse.
BEN: So what now? You go on the run for the rest of your life? Back to Sing Sing? Or you turn up dead in an alley?
VITTI: Those are my choices? What happened to lying on a beach in Costa Rica for the next twenty years? You can't let me enjoy this for five fuckin' minutes?
BEN: Five minutes? And then what?
VITTI: And then what? I'll show you.
CHAPIN: Acting on intelligence we developed in the last few days, the Justice Department and the F.B.I. took very aggressive action to recover the stolen gold and bring the perpetrators to justice. I'm happy to tell the people of New York that the streets are safe again.
PATTY: Hi, Paul. How'd it go?
VITTI: Not so good.
PATTY: Yeah, I heard. It's all over the television. I never should've trusted Eddie. But, you know, a woman alone in the world is very vulnerable.
VITTI: Yeah, I know.
PATTY: At least I don't have to worry about the Rigazzis no more. Thanks to you.
VITTI: I told you I just want to be left
PATTY: I know. I'll make sure. How about some breakfast? I could make you some waffles and whatever else you want.
VITTI: Can't do that.
PATTY: Well, if you ever change your mind Good luck, Paul.
BEN: Did you see Patti?
VITTI: ( ruefully ) Did she grab your balls?
BEN: ( ruefully ) Did she grab your balls?
VITTI: What kind of question is that? She's cool. She's just happy to have 'the Wrench' out of the way.
BEN: Well, I talked to the U.S. Attorney.
VITTI: Did he grab your balls?
BEN: No, Paul, he did not grab my balls. He thanked me for tipping him off about the gold. And he said he won't be coming after you if you stay out of trouble. So what do you think?
VITTI: I'm gonna go to Ohio get Marie and the kids then we'll probably disappear for awhile figure out all
BEN: Good idea. Change is hard, Paul. But you did the right thing.
VITTI: Yeah, you, too. You hung in there. That took a lot of guts.
BEN: Well, I just
VITTI: No, you were like an animal back I just vented my displaced aggression
BEN: I just vented my displaced aggression
VITTI: No. I'm telling you. You're a monster. I saw the beast in you.
BEN: I'm not a beast. I can handle myself if I have to
VITTI: Handle yourself? You were fuckin' John Wayne.
BEN: Well, I wrestled a bit in high school 122 pounds.
VITTI: Yeah, I could tell. You're good, you.
BEN: I'm not
VITTI: Paul, I just
VITTI: No. You are good. You got a gift, my
BEN: Fine. I have a gift.
VITTI: So happy ending, huh?
BEN: Well, I think so. Don't you feel better now?
VITTI: Are you kidding? I feel like shit. All that work for nothing. 20 million You're grieving it's a process.
BEN: You're grieving it's a process.
VITTI: Take it easy, Doc.
BEN: You, too, Paul.
VITTI: Hey, Doc! 'There's a place for us '
BEN: ( sings ) 'A time and place for us '
JELLY: ( joins in ) 'Hold my hand we're halfway there '
ALL TOGETHER: 'Hold my hand and I'll take you there. Somehow, someday, somewhere.'
THE END: Writers : Peter Steinfeld Harold Ramis Peter Tolan Kenneth Longeran
