AGAFIA: He needs to come in if he's to wash himself. A Kitchen Maid at the sink obediently dries her hands on her apron. A dozing dog, Laska, pricks up her ears.
3: The herd stirs at the lantern light. The bull, Berkut, with a ring through his nose, snorts as the girl goes by. At the back of the shed a cow is calving. Levin is midwifing, sleeves pulled back, blood and slime up to his elbows. He is 34. His steward, Vasili, holds up a lantern. Levin pulls carefully at the emerging forefeet.
LEVIN: Good girl . . . good girl, Pava. The calf's head emerges.
KITCHEN MAID: Agafia Mishaylovna says dinner's like to spoil. The calf enters the world like a diver. Levin is feeling great pride and pleasure.
LEVIN: . . . her father's colour.
VASILI: Worth coming home for, Konstantin Dmitrich!
LEVIN: I stayed too long in Moscow. The cow nuzzles and licks her calf.
4: Cleaned up, in a smock shirt, Levin bites hungrily into a pirozhok, talking. He has a book on a book-rest. Agafia ladles soup for him. Three generations of family portraits look down on him.
LEVIN: . . . She's a beauty. That's twelve cows sired by Berkut!
AGAFIA: So one of you is doing what the good Lord made you for. Levin evades, ducks into spooning up soup, finding his place in his book. Agafia goes out. Alone, Levin closes the book and stares into himself.
5: Prince Stepan Oblonsky-- Stiva to his friends--is 34 and liked by every- body. A barber comes in every morning to shave him. His valet, Matvey, is older and almost a friend. He holds up an enormous pear.
MATVEY: What should I do with this? Oblonsky puts the barber on hold to have a look.
OBLONSKY: Where did you find it?
MATVEY: In your hat. Your Excellency. Oblonsky thinks about it, lets the barber finish. He stands and removes his dressing gown.
OBLONSKY: Yes . . . I picked it up somewhere for Daria Alexandrovna and the children. Matvey is ready with Oblonsky's shirt, which he puts over his master's head like a horse's collar.
6: Dolly picks up the youngest, Vasya, to kiss him and hands him to the Nurse, and kisses the others in ascending order.
DOLLY: Bonjour, Lili; bonjour, Masha; bonjour, Grisha; bonjour, Tanya. Who's coming to see Grandmama?
OBLONSKY'S POV--: Dolly, in furs, the four youngest children and the Nurse, who carries Vasya, all wrapped up against the cold weather, have come out of the house to a waiting sleigh, as noisy as starlings, bickering, competing, reprimanding. The Oblonsky's Coachman assists, with a rug to spread across knees. Oblonsky hands his coffee to Matvey and lights a small cigar. He detours to take a sugared almond from a dish of sweets, and leaves the room . . .
7: My Tanruchoshka! Mind my cigar. He pops the sugared almond into her mouth and puts a conspiratorial finger to his lips. Mlle. Roland, who has stood up for him, clucks in reprimand.
OBLONSKY (CONT'D): Be good today. I'm off. Tanya runs back to her seat and bends to her schoolbook. Oblonsky looks Mlle. Roland in the eye. He moves his head slightly, unmistakably ask- ing her to come outside. Mlle. Roland moves her eyes at him in humorous reproach. Clearly, this is familiar ground. Oblonsky closes the door behind him. mlle. roland
(PAUSE): Read the chapter carefully. I'll come back to test you on it . . . Read it twice.
8: It is early in the day. Anna's maid, Annushka, has been dressing Anna. Annushka is young, loyal, modest. Anna is at her dressing-table-bureau, which is host to at least two pho- tographs of a small boy (Serozha) and a child's unframed drawing of "Maman." As she starts reading the letter, Anna's eyes frown.
ANNA: Tsk, oh . . . Stiva!
ANNA: . . . and Dolly found a note from the governess. Anna is speaking to her husband "confidentially." Karenin, a busy man, drains his coffee cup and hands it (as with Oblonsky and Matvey) to his valet, Korney, who bows and withdraws. Karenin continues transferring papers from his desk to his portfolio . . . Which done, he nods to his private secretary, Mikhail Slyudin, who comes forward to receive it, bows and leaves.
10: Well . . . ? Karenin is twenty years older than Anna and a senior figure in govern- ment. He has an unattractive reedy voice and is pleased with himself as a model of probity. He has the habit of cracking his knuckles.
ANNA: Stiva wants me to come to Moscow . . . to persuade Dolly to forgive him.
KARENIN: I'm to be deprived of my wife so that adul- tery may be forgiven? I can't excuse him just because he's your brother.
ANNA: It's for Dolly's sake too.
KARENIN: (has to go) I have four committees today . . . There is another interruption: Serozha, aged seven and a half, and his tutor, Vasily Lukich, enter for a ritual "good morning." Serozha is a little frightened of his father, but the mother and son are in love. Anna goes straight to Serozha, her heart lifted, to hug him.
KARENIN (CONT'D): Good, good!--I have the world waiting for me, there's never time to look at your exercises!
11: Sergei Alexeyich is doing very well, Your Excellency.
ANNA: (a button missing) Tsk-tsk, who put this shirt on you? Never mind. I'll come and hear you read.
KARENIN: Tomorrow, perhaps. Thank you, Lukich-- perhaps tomorrow. Lukich bows. Anna goes with Serozha, relinquishing him finally. She closes the door on them.
ANNA: Alexei, do you think nine years of mar- riage and children should count for nothing against a . . . an infatuation? Karenin cracks his knuckles, concedes.
KARENIN: No. Very well. (kisses her hand) But sin has a price, you may be sure of that.
12: Dolly . . . please think of the children . . . He listens hopefully. The other door, leading to the upper landing, is opened violently by Dolly.
DOLLY: You think of the children! Their lives are ruined now! She slams the door behind her.
OBLONSKY: Oh, Dolly . . . I beg you . . . Matvey come to the top of the stairs with a telegram.
MATVEY: Telegram. Should I send up the barber?
OBLONSKY: No, just the razor. Oblonsky tears open the telegram.
13: Don't worry, sir, things will shape them- selves, you'll see.
OBLONSKY: My sister Anna's coming tomorrow. We're saved.
DOORKEEPER: Some man came without an appointment, Your Excellency . . . waiting outside. Oblonsky opens the door to look. Levin is sitting waiting on a bench, wear- ing a sheepskin coat, cap and scuffed boots.
OBLONSKY: Levin! Where did you disappear? He seizes Levin and kisses him.
LEVIN: I'm very anxious to see you. I need your advice.
14: Well, then, come into my room. Oblonsky leads Levin back through the general office, where everyone stands up again. Levin's sheepskin and boots attract curious glances.
OBLONSKY (CONT'D): This is my oldest friend, Konstantin Dmit- rich Levin! Someone send word I'll be a few minutes late.
OBLONSKY: I've been hard at it. Sit down. Levin undoes his coat and sits down.
LEVIN: Hard at what exactly?
OBLONSKY: Why, we're overwhelmed with work!
LEVIN: Oh--paperwork.
OBLONSKY: Paperwork is the soul of Russia. Farming is only the stomach. When am I going to come and shoot some snipe? Seeing the clothes Levin is wearing, he laughs.
15: Oh, but look at you, in Western clothes you told me you'd never wear again. Some- thing's up.
LEVIN: Yes. I'm in love. I've come back to propose. Have you guessed who she is?
OBLONSKY: (rolls his eyes comically) I have a suspicion. Why didn't you propose when you were here?
LEVIN: I decided it was impossible. Kitty is of the heavens, an angel, and I am of the earth-- but then I thought and thought, and . . . there's no life for me without her! . . . Do I have a chance?
OBLONSKY: Of course you do. The Shcherbatskys are giving a soiree this evening. Get there early before the crowd. If I may suggest . . .
LEVIN: Anything! What?
OBLONSKY: New boots.
LEVIN: Right. Anything else?
16: We'd better have dinner together. Come on, we'll meet later at l'Angleterre. Or do you prefer the Hermitage? Oblonsky ushers Levin back into the general office.
OBLONSKY: No--five-thirty at l'Angleterre--I owe them more than the Hermitage, so it wouldn't be fair to withdraw my custom. (taking his hat) Boots, and a coat. And a proper hat. He ushers Levin out.
17: Oblonsky and Levin preside over the debris of three dozen oysters, with champagne in a bucket to hand. Oblonsky is in a maudlin mood, afloat on champagne.
OBLONSKY: It's so unfair. You marry for love, you're a good husband. Children arrive. Years depart. And all of a sudden your wife is tired, her hair is thin, her body . . . while you yourself still have your . . . vigour . . . and you find yourself distracted by a pretty woman . . .
LEVIN: Forgive me, but I find that incomprehen- sible . . . As though I'd leave this restaurant and steal a roll from a baker's shop.
OBLONSKY: Well, you know, a freshly baked roll . . .
LEVIN: But I'm talking about love, and you're talk- ing about . . . your appetite.
OBLONSKY: Easily confused. Now look, do you know Count Vronsky?
LEVIN: Who? No. Why?
18: He's your rival. He turned up from St. Petersburg after you left.
LEVIN: Who is he?
OBLONSKY: You don't have to worry about him. He's one of those rich, good-looking cavalry offi- cers who've got nothing to do but make love to pretty women . . . A waiter arrives to remove the oyster shells, while an Elderly Waiter places a bowl of soup in front of Levin and a lobster in front of Oblonsky.
OBLONSKY (CONT'D): Cabbage soup?
ELDERLY WAITER: Potage aux choux a la Russe, as the gentle- man ordered.
LEVIN: It's what I wanted. Oblonsky laughs. The Waiter departs.
LEVIN (CONT'D): Understand that for me, tonight is a ques- tion of life and death.
19: Oh, Kostya! Kitty would be mad to refuse you. And Dolly is on your side, you know. She says her sister Kitty was always meant to be your wife and will be. Levin jumps up in elation, collects himself, and sits.
LEVIN: Dolly said that? I've always thought your Dolly's a gem.
OBLONSKY: Oh, she is, she is . . .
(THOUGHTFULLY): I loved her to distraction.
SEROZHA: But why?
20: Because that's where Aunt Dolly lives.
SEROZHA: But why?
ANNA: I told you, Serozha. She's not well. I must go to see her.
SEROZHA: But why?
ANNA: Now, don't make Mama cry. I'll be back before you know, and bring you a present.
SEROZHA: Don't want a present. I want you to stay. Anna is on the brink of tears.
ANNA: Oh . . . my little Kutik . . .
SEROZHA: What present?
ANNA: That's better. She dabs her eyes.
21: Kapitonich, the Karenins' Hall Porter, an "old soldier," comes out of the house to where a private carriage is waiting. The coachman is Konrad. Anna comes out with Annushka, who has a large soft bag containing everything her mistress needs for the journey. Kapitonich holds the carriage door for them.
ANNA: It's the first time I've left my little boy.
COUNTESS VRONSKY: So you are leaving your son and I am return- ing to mine. I am Countess Vronsky. Anna knows the name. countess vronsky (cont'd) I've been in St. Petersburg for the christen- ing of a granddaughter--my elder son mar- ried Princess Chirkov. You're a charming creature. Why don't I know you?
22: I've never been in Moscow society, really.
COUNTESS VRONSKY: But you know my name?
ANNA: I've heard you mentioned . . .
COUNTESS VRONSKY: Talked about, you mean. Ah, love! Anna, found out, smiles tentatively.
ANNA: Was it love?
COUNTESS VRONSKY: Always. My sons are ashamed of me. But I'd rather end up wishing I hadn't than end up wishing I had--wouldn't you?
ANNA: I . . . I don't know . . . Anna looks at the snow on the window. She is unsettled by the conversation.
23: The Hall Porter lets Levin into the house. A Footman takes Levin's hat and coat. Levin is uneasy--he seems to be first to arrive. He decides he has come too early. He pulls his coat back from the Footman.
LEVIN: I'll come back.
UP ABOVE: Princess Ekaterina (Kitty) Shcherbatsky is eighteen. Eager to see who has arrived, she hurries from the direction of the reception room and looks down into the entrance hall in time to see Levin snatch his hat back from the Footman.
KITTY: Konstantin!
LEVIN: I'm too early.
KITTY: No! Come up!
DOWN BELOW: Kitty runs off out of Levin's view. He flings his hat and coat at the Foot- man and runs up the stairs.
24: Levin hurries in and finds Kitty seated prettily in a "receiving" pose. She is alone.
KITTY: Look at me! I'm receiving for Papa and Maman who are late to dress. It's my first reception. Levin plays along, kissing her hand elaborately.
LEVIN: Princess Ekaterina! Delighted, delighted!
KITTY: I'm so pleased you were able to be with us, Konstantin Dmitrich!
LEVIN: Kitty . . . you look . . . you look--
KITTY: Stiva told us you were back. How long are you staying?
LEVIN: I don't know. It depends on you.
KITTY: On me?
25: He has got ahead of himself. Doors are flung open and the hosts, Prince and Princess Shcherbatsky, and a crowd of guests who have arrived together, are greeting each other. Levin has to make a quick decision, and he makes the wrong one--to go on.
LEVIN: What I mean to say--I came with only one purpose--I want to--will you be my wife? Kitty panics. A wave of Guests is almost upon her.
LEVIN (CONT'D): I'm sorry--sorry--wrong moment--but will you?
KITTY: I can't. I'm sorry. Kitty flees. Levin seems stunned, surrounded now by greetings, laughter, and servants with trays of drinks.
LEVIN: Yes. It was impossible. Prince and Princess Shcherbatsky receive a young married member of Kitty's set, Countess Nordston . . . and introduce Levin, who hears and sees noth- ing. He turns away, leaving the Countess hung out to dry. Levin finds himself face to face with Burisov, a silky Officer in sky blue uniform, who introduces himself.
BURISOV: Burisov. Are you the brother of Nikolai Levin?
26: Yes.
BURISOV: He's in Moscow, he's staying at the Unicorn in Khitrovka.
LEVIN: How do you know?
BURISOV: It's the sort of thing I know. He bows to Levin and turns away to greet someone. Levin reacts, decides to leave. He makes for the door. He nearly collides with someone, gives and receives an apology, and suddenly understands who this man in Guards uniform must be. Levin turns.
LEVIN: Count Vronsky?
VRONSKY: Yes. Levin pauses awkwardly. Vronsky hesitates, bows and continues on. Levin witnesses Kitty seeing Vronsky approaching, and sees her face light up. Vronsky kisses her hand.
VRONSKY (CONT'D): Princess Kitty . . . It's been so long, and yet it seems like yesterday. His banter is lost on her. She laughs happily.
27: It was yesterday! Levin turns away and leaves.
LEVIN: It's Kostya. Nikolai roars with laughter which turns to wheezing.
28: God, look at him! You look like a capitalist!
(THEN SUSPICIOUSLY): What do you want?
LEVIN: Nothing. I came to see you. Nikolai goes back into the room, shouting for "Masha." Levin follows him.
LEVIN: Good evening, miss . . . madame . . .
NIKOLAI: Don't talk to her like that. It frightens her. You sound like a magistrate. (shouts at her) More vodka for my brother, quick about it.
LEVIN: I don't want anything. Masha goes to Nikolai and whispers to him, calming him.
NIKOLAI: I'm all right. He fills a wineglass with vodka and gulps it greedily.
29: Who told you where to find me?
LEVIN: A colonel in the Third Department. They're watching you.
NIKOLAI: Good. They must think I'm dangerous. Levin involuntarily smiles at the self-puffery.
NIKOLAI (CONT'D): What have you got to smile about?
LEVIN: Nothing.
NIKOLAI: That's right. The day is coming. I gave up my birthright for it. You're on the wrong side of history. Not because privilege is immoral but because it's irrational. Wheezing, he goes for the bottle again. Masha tries to take it from him, appealing to Levin.
MASHA: He is sick.
NIKOLAI: Let go or I'll beat your lights out. He pushes her away and pours himself more vodka.
30: I took Mary Nikolova from a brothel but I consider her my wife. If her presence offends you you're free to leave. Are you married?
LEVIN: No.
NIKOLAI: Why not? Are you waiting to fall in love?
LEVIN: No.
NIKOLAI: Good. Romantic love will be the last illu- sion of the old order. You should marry one of your peasants. Levin's reaction is almost violent, surprising Nikolai.
LEVIN: Yes. I damn well should!
NIKOLAI: (toasts, casually) The brotherhood of man. Levin recovers himself. He takes out his wallet.
LEVIN: Nikolai, you have to see a doctor. Then come and stay with me at Pokrovskoe till you get your health back.
31: With my wife? Levin becomes flustered.
LEVIN: If you . . . or go abroad to a spa. I'll send you more if that's what you . . . Masha reaches for the money Levin has put on the table. Nikolai knocks her hand away. He throws the banknotes at Levin. He coughs himself into a paroxysm. Levin tries to embrace him. Nikolai throws him off.
LEVIN (CONT'D): What about the brotherhood of brothers? Masha snatches up the banknotes.
STATIONMASTER: The private coach will stop opposite the carpet. The Guards Officer nods. He sees Vronsky arriving.
32: Hello, what's this?
GUARDS OFFICER: Austrian royalty on their honeymoon. I've got them for four days.
VRONSKY: Bad luck. What do they like? Art?
GUARDS OFFICER: Food.
VRONSKY: Here's the train.
STATIONMASTER: I'll see to it. He hurries away towards the engine. Oblonsky hurries through, relieved not to be late.
33: Vronsky is saluted by his mother's Major Domo, a tall man in livery with a cockade.
MAJOR DOMO: Second carriage, Your Excellency. I'll see to the Countess's luggage and bring it on to the house. Vronsky nods, and makes his way towards the second coach, against the flow of disembarked passengers.
34: I'll come back. Anna moves to the door opening on to the "porch." Vronsky is on the point of entering. He steps back to allow her by. They barely exchange a glance as she passes him, but, simultaneously, each of them looks back. Anna looks away quickly. His look lingers before he turns away to enter the carriage.
ANNA: You don't look ashamed.
OBLONSKY: I am, I really am.
35: Yes, of course. Oblonsky's sister . . . Karenina.
COUNTESS: Charmante, don't you think? (to her Maid) Wait for me in the carriage. I'll take Tosca. She takes the dog. The Maid leaves with her bag.
VRONSKY: . . . You stayed longer in St. Petersburg.
COUNTESS VRONSKY: Long enough for you to start a little love affair, I hear.
VRONSKY: I can't think what you're referring to, Maman. He glances back to the window, where Anna turns back to enter the train.
36: Anna enters from the porch.
ANNA: There, Countess, you have found your son and I have found my brother.
COUNTESS VRONSKY: Madame Karenin has a son, too. It's the first time they have been apart, so she frets about him.
VRONSKY: Excuse me for not recognizing you before.
COUNTESS VRONSKY: We passed the time telling each other about our sons.
ANNA: Yes, I've been hearing all about you.
VRONSKY: That must have been very boring for you. The ringing sound of the wheel-tapper's hammer is faintly audible in Anna's hesitation. Anna shuts off the gallantry.
ANNA: Au revoir, Countess.
COUNTESS VRONSKY: Au revoir, my dear. Let me kiss your pretty face.
37: Countess Vronsky does so. Anna turns to offer her hand to Vronsky. As Vronsky takes her hand, the train lurches and moves, unsteadying them both.
VRONSKY: Keep your people inside until this has been cleared up.
OBLONSKY: . . . the sole support of a large family, they say.
38: Can't anything be done for them? Vronsky glances at her.
VRONSKY: Wait for me, Maman. Vronsky retraces his steps.
COUNTESS VRONSKY: I've you to thank for that. She knows her son. Anna hasn't understood, but when Oblonsky looks back he sees Vronsky with the Stationmaster, taking money from his wallet.
OBLONSKY: What a good fellow . . . Anna catches on, doesn't like it.
ANNA: Have you known Count Vronsky long?
OBLONSKY: Did you like him? He's in love with Kitty.
ANNA: Oh . . .
(PAUSE): But we should be discussing you and Dolly.
39: She scolds him like a naughty boy.
ANNA (CONT'D): What have you got to say for yourself?
OBLONSKY: I've said it all--on my knees--in tears . . . Now I need you to say it. I'm going to the office, so you'll have Dolly to yourself.
ANNA: Don't be home late.
DOLLY: Kitty's coming by to see you. She's all grown-up, and a bit frightened of you--the belle of St. Petersburg society!
ANNA: Is that who I am? Dolly . . . Stiva has told me. Dolly bursts into tears. Anna embraces her.
ANNA (CONT'D): Dolly, I'm sorry from the bottom of my heart.
40: I don't know what to do.
ANNA: I know, I know.
DOLLY: I can't bear to be with him. And he doesn't care, he's got what he wants.
ANNA: What he wants is you. He loves you, Dolly. You and the children are everything to him.
DOLLY: Are we? And there is room for a governess?
ANNA: That was shameful, disgraceful. But it was not love. It was the animal in man, not the soul. Stiva's remorse is from the soul.
DOLLY: What about me? Does his remorse make it easier for me?--
ANNA: I know you are suffering. But, Dolly, you must tell me . . . is there enough love left in your heart . . . enough to forgive him?
DOLLY: When I think of them together, I can't for- give him, no!
41: My poor lamb. So you'd rather accept your fate . . .
DOLLY: My fate?
(OUTRAGED): But I haven't done anything! It's him
ANNA: Do you love him, Dolly? Dolly nods tearfully.
ANNA (CONT'D): You love him, and he loves you, but you can't forgive, so your lives must continue like this for ever, with both of you wretched. She's winning.
42: Grisha, don't pull so hard, you're getting it all in a tangle--and look for another G for
GRIGORI--: (She takes off her ring for Tanya) --here, darling, you can wear it till you go
TO BED--: Dolly sits apart, embroidering. She looks up at the sound of voices down- stairs, Oblonsky coming home. The children hear their father and abandon the card table, running out to greet him. Dolly stands up to leave by a dif- ferent door, giving Anna a collusive glance. Anna pushes aside the alphabet bricks.
ANNA (CONT'D): Well, that's the end of that.
KITTY: Will you stay for the Bobrishchev's ball, Anna?
ANNA: Oh . . . I always feel dull at a ball.
KITTY: How can you ever be dull? Oblonsky arrives in the doorway with Tanya and Grisha hanging on him.
KITTY (CONT'D): Stiva! Tell Anna she must come to the ball.
OBLONSKY: Of course she must.
43: He cocks an eye at Anna: how did it go with Dolly? Anna moves her head: upstairs.
ANNA: . . . and God go with you. Kitty catches the moment.
OBLONSKY: You can introduce me to your new governess.
TANYA: She's old! She's a hundred! Which leaves Anna and Kitty alone.
ANNA: I know why you want me to come. You want everyone to be there because you're sure it's going to be your night.
KITTY: How did you know? Anna's smile is her acting out a mock-mysteriousness.
ANNA: I know everything. She has moved alphabet letters around to spell out VRONSKY. She laughs at Kitty's tearful, joyful nodding, genuinely happy for Kitty.
ANNA (CONT'D): Oh, to be your age again . . . surrounded by that blue mist, like mist on the mountains
44: that clears slowly to reveal the terrifying, beautiful valley you must enter to become grown-up . . . I was eighteen too, when I got married . . . A quiet note of regret hangs in the air between them for a moment before Anna dispels it.
SERVANT: . . . no, Your Excellency . . . He's just gone up. . . . The Princess retired early . . . Is there a message? Vronsky glances up and sees Anna looking down. Their eyes meet. A second passes. Vronsky is about to speak. Anna turns away and moves out of his view, towards further stairs, with her book.
VRONSKY: No.
45: Levin is coming home in a sleigh, driven by his one-eyed coachman, Ignat. He is huddled under a bearskin blanket. The house is in sight. The sleigh overtakes a Peasant Woman, Serafina, walking to the house car- rying a big bundle of willow wands strapped to her back: a strong young woman with a handsome face. She stops and bows her head. Levin looks at her. She then looks him in the face. Laska, barking joyfully, races from the house.
LEVIN: Will you go to confession? Serafina nods indifferently.
LEVIN (CONT'D): God will forgive you.
SERAFINA: And you also, master. He is watching.
LEVIN: God forgive us then, for committing the act of love. She nods without irony.
46: He is merciful.
LEVIN: "Not according to my deserts, O Lord, but according to thy mercy"--that's a fine prayer. But I'm full of doubt. Sometimes I even doubt that God exists.
SERAFINA: How can there be anything if God didn't make it?
LEVIN: I don't know. One day science will tell us.
SERAFINA: That's sinful talk if the priest heard you.
LEVIN: Well, I won't go to confession.
SERAFINA: Your father built the church. You're con- fessed a while yet. Levin feels outplayed.
SERAFINA (CONT'D): Will you bring me something from Moscow?
LEVIN: What would you like?
47: Soap, the kind wrapped in paper to look pretty, and smelling like for a proper lady. Levin is touched. He nods.
YOUTH: Kitty! May I have a waltz?
KITTY: You may, Boris. I'll save you the third just because it's your first ball.
YOUTH: You're my first conquest. The Master of Ceremonies, Korsunsky, arrives and without permission sweeps her into the waltz.
48: It's a relaxation to dance with you, Princess. Kitty sees Anna arriving with Oblonsky and gives a little gasp at her God-given beauty.
KORSUNSKY (CONT'D): But back to work! Where do you want to be taken?
KITTY: There. Korsunsky waltzes her brilliantly through the dancers and twirls her to rest in front of a small group including Anna and Oblonsky-- floating Kitty's train.
KORSUNSKY: So that your ankles may be seen. Anna appraises Kitty at a glance and gives her a tiny nod signifying top marks. Kitty glows.
KITTY: How are you, Stiva?
OBLONSKY: Thanks to Anna, I am a happy man. Would you like to dance?
KITTY: No, ask Anna.
49: No . . . I don't . . . She looks up and sees Vronsky coming straight towards her.
ANNA (CONT'D): Come on then. Just as Vronsky is about to bow, she takes Oblonsky's arm and he whirls her away. Kitty smiles for Vronsky but his eyes have followed Anna, know- ing she cut him. He remembers himself after an awkward hiatus. Kitty's mother and father are watching from afar. Vronsky obliges. He invites her into the waltz.
PRINCE SHCHERBATSKY: . . . this vile, idiotic matchmaking of yours . . .
PRINCESS SHCHERBATSKY: For goodness' sake, what have I done?
PRINCE SHCHERBATSKY: Levin is a thousand times better than this Petersburg fop. If he had royal blood my daughter wouldn't need him! Vronsky's mind is absent and the waltz ends after only a few steps. He stand waiting for the music to start.
KITTY: Is anything the matter?
50: No. You look . . . as lovely as ever, Princess Kitty. The music starts and they dance on. At the end of the waltz, Vronsky leaves Kitty with her mother, bows and departs. Princess Shcherbatsky is beginning to have doubts. She starts to ask.
KITTY: Don't ask me, Maman! Boris the Youth pops up to claim his dance. Dancing, Kitty sees Vronsky talking to a couple of Officers. She is anxious but not disillusioned. Grumpy Prince Shcherbatsky is dancing with Countess Nordston.
COUNTESS NORDSTON: He'll dance the mazurka with Kitty, you'll see. I call the mazurka the now-or-never. Anna watches the dancing. She rejects an offer with a smile. She sees Vron- sky and to her discomfort Vronsky looks up and catches her looking. She turns away at once, and notices that ladies are curtseying and men are bowing as the Host and Hostess escort an overweight but glittering young couple towards a decorative buffet in an adjoining salon: the Austrian royal honeymooners . . . attended by the Guards Officer from the station. Anna stands and curtseys as they pass by into the salon . . . where Oblonsky is roaring with laughter, champagne in hand.
AUSTRIAN PRINCESS: . . . we were shut up in the train for an hour!
51: Anna steals a sidelong glance towards Vronsky but he is no longer there. She looks for him among the dancers, smiles at Kitty going by with the enthusiastic, inexpert Boris. Suddenly, Vronsky is at Anna's side.
VRONSKY: Dance with me.
ANNA: I am not used to being spoken to like that by a man I met once at a railway station.
VRONSKY: I dare say, but if I'm not to dance with you, I'm getting out of this operetta and going home.
ANNA: Then, for Kitty's sake. She gives him her hand. Kitty looks for Vronsky, can't see him, then is taken aback to see him with Anna. Kitty watches Anna dancing. Anna says something which makes Vronsky laugh. Anna laughs. Anna blossoms in front of Kitty's eyes. Vron- sky twirls Anna around and she comes smiling into his arms. It goes on like that. Kitty watches them from within the arms of young men, old men, from the wall. Anna and Vronsky dance slow, they dance fast, gaily, solemnly, gazes locked. Others are noticing too: Countess Nordston, Princess Shcherbatsky, and eagle-eyed matrons. Anna, oblivious, has found a release in herself.
52: Countess Nordston finds Kitty sitting alone. Korsunsky announces the Mazurka.
COUNTESS NORDSTON: You're not dancing the mazurka? I won't have it. She pulls Kitty to her feet. countess nordston (cont'd) I'm engaged by General Glub--I give him to you.
KORSUNSKY: . . . the lady chooses a lady and a gentleman . . . ! The lady in the middle beckons to Anna and the man who, changing part- ners, happens to be dancing with her. They enter the middle where they have their solo turn as a couple, while the original couple reenter the circum- ference. Anna is flushed with pleasure. Among the surrounding dancers, Vronsky has no eyes for his partner, only for Anna. Kitty, dancing, watches Vronsky incredulous.
KORSUNSKY (CONT'D): . . . and the lady chooses a lady and a gentleman . . . !
53: Anna looks smilingly around the dancing circle and sees Kitty staring at her. Anna "wakes up." Everything which made her drunk makes her sober in the instant. She waits until the change of partners brings Kitty and Vronsky together. She beckons them into the middle. Her own partner expects to re-join the circumference with Anna, but she makes an apology and escapes through the circle, running towards the door. With a howl and clatter, the St. Petersburg express seems to crash through the ballroom.
MONTAGE: An abstract, nightmarish, discordant noise of clattering and howling accompanies unexplained flame--light on wood, glass, iron . . . blackness opens like a door on a blizzard of light, and slams shut. Anna's face, eyes closed, floats ghostlike.
54: Anna has a reading lamp hooked over her armrest, and a novel. She cuts a page with a paper-knife. But the book cannot hold her. She is reading without taking it in. She turns back a page and tries again, but almost at once she turns to the window where the dark reflection of her face looks back at her. Kitty's face staring as she stared at Anna, betrayed. Anna turns away from the window. The Guard comes through the door, letting in wind and snow, and shuts it. He walks through the carriage.
GUARD: Bologoye! Fifteen minutes. The train is slowing.
VRONSKY: Can I be of service to you?
ANNA: I didn't know you were . . . Why are you leaving?
55: You know why. I have to be where you are. I can't not.
ANNA: This is wrong. If you're a good man, forget everything that happened, as I will.
VRONSKY: I'll never forget a single thing about you, not a word, not a gesture--
ANNA: That's enough! She climbs the steps on to the porch. At the door to the carriage she pauses. The encounter has left her feeling elated and frightened.
VRONSKY: Take the luggage home. Franz runs back the other way. Vronsky walks on, then stops when he sees Karenin waiting on the platform, smiling and going forward to hand Anna down the steps. Kapitonich enters the carriage. Vronsky hesitates.
ANNA: Is Serozha all right?
56: Oh, is that all I get? Yes, he's quite well. Vronsky steps forward. Anna knows he's there. She angles herself to avoid looking at him.
VRONSKY: Did you have a good night? He bows to Karenin.
ANNA: Yes, quite comfortable. Count Vronsky. Karenin extends a hand indifferently then dismisses Vronsky, drawing Anna with him.
KARENIN: I have to get back to the Committee . . . He walks Anna away.
KARENIN (CONT'D): Well--were you a success?
ANNA: I? Oh--Dolly and Stiva . . . yes, I think so . . . Vronsky watches them go.
57: A snowy St. Petersburg street. Vronsky arrives home by cab. He has a flat in an old apartment block.
VRONSKY: I'll announce myself. Veronsky enters the main room. The occupant of the flat is a 2nd Lieuten- ant, Petritsky, wearing his greatcoat over shirt and trousers.
PETRITSKY: Vronsky! The master himself. Baroness, coffee from the new coffeepot for Count Vronsky. Petritsky indicates a pretty young woman in satin.
PETRITSKY (CONT'D): I hope you are pleased by this ornament to your quarters. Vronsky bows and kisses her fingers.
BARONESS: I'll be off home if I'm in the way.
58: You're at home where you are, Baroness.
BARONESS: Ah!--Pierre, you never say such pretty things to me. We were just discussing my husband. He won't divorce me, you see. And do you know why?
VRONSKY: No.
BARONESS: Because he likes eating off my family silver.
VRONSKY: Ah.
BARONESS: I want to bring an action. Just because I'm supposed to be unfaithful, I don't see why I have to eat off Pierre's crockery. Look at it.
VRONSKY: It's my crockery.
PETRITSKY: How was Moscow?
VRONSKY: Provincial.
59: Anna, her dress changed, lies on Serozha's bed, on her side, one arm under his bedclothes scratching his back gently. He lies quietly on his stomach, with his eyes closed, his face inches from hers. In the dim light of a night- light she gazes at him for long moments.
SEROZHA: You've stopped. She resumes scratching. He grunts contentedly.
SEROZHA (CONT'D): Thank you for my present.
ANNA: Sssh . . . She kisses him and continues to lie there, gently scratching. He falls quickly asleep. She removes her arm and restores his bedclothes.
60: Korney, the Valet, gathers up a discarded shirt, etc. Karenin in a dressing gown is reading in a comfortable chair, by a candle lamp. Korney leaves.
KARENIN: Time for bed!
ANNA: I'm writing to Dolly . . . and to Kitty.
KARENIN: You are . . . good. Anna shakes her head and clasps his hand.
61: Candles each side of the bed. Karenin cracks his knuckles. He unlocks a drawer and opens a tin box lying in the drawer. Anna, disrobing, registers these sounds.
KARENIN: What are they saying in Moscow about the new Statute?
ANNA: What new Statute? Karenin takes a contraceptive sheath, made from animal intestine (re- usable) from the tin.
KARENIN: The new Statute I carried in Council. Anna blows her candle out and gets into bed.
ANNA: No one mentioned it.
KARENIN: Ah. Really? He comes to bed in his nightshirt.
KARENIN (CONT'D): Here it made quite a sensation. He gets into bed. Anna waits dead-eyed. Karenin blows his candle out.
62: Kitty, a hollow-eyed version of herself, in a demure nightdress, sits upright on a chaise longue with her legs stretched out. The Family Doctor deferen- tially removes one of her slippers as though it were an intimate garment.
FAMILY DOCTOR: Forgive me, Princess, but I must . . . With a silver "fork" the Doctor tests the sole of her foot for a reflex. Kitty is miserably going along with a farce she despises.
PRINCE SHCHERBATSKY: Am I the only one who knows what's wrong with her? But a Celebrity Doctor, as shiny as his own gold watch which he is check- ing, is bearing down on them, riding over a Footman's attempt to announce him.
PRINCESS SHCHERBATSKY: Oh, thank God, doctor--my friends say you're the only one who can save her!
CELEBRITY DOCTOR: Possibly, Princess, possibly! At your service, Your Excellencies. Where is the patient?
63: Kitty is sobbing with shame: the Celebrity Doctor has stripped her to the waist and is tapping her chest. The Family Doctor can't bear it and excuses himself.
CELEBRITY DOCTOR: Come, come, Princess, we are not backward people--I handle naked bodies every day. Deep breath now . . .
PRINCE SHCHERBATSKY: By God. I'll challenge the scoundrel!
FAMILY DOCTOR: It's the modern way . . .
PRINCESS SHCHERBATSKY: (to the Prince) You're not a doctor!
FAMILY DOCTOR: Her symptoms . . . loss of appetite, fast
PRINCE SHCHERBATSKY: Well, whose pulse wouldn't be fast if some brute of a-- The Celebrity Doctor comes briskly out of Kitty's room, checking his watch.
64: Nervous palpitations. We must treat the nerves. A tubercular cavity is suspected, too soon to tell. Soden water every two hours. I must see her again tomorrow.
(HE BOWS): Prince! Princess! He's gone. The Prince enters Kitty's room.
PRINCE SHCHERBATSKY: Don't you fret, my little Kate! You'll wake up one fine morning and say to yourself--"I feel well and happy and I'll go out for a walk with Papa!" The Prince is mortified when Kitty's sobs redouble.
65: A few rows of chairs in someone's reception room, a mixed audience of guests, a flashy pianist . . . Betsy with a "toy" dog on her lap, Tuskevich on one side, Anna on the other. The dog yaps and sneezes. Betsy hands the dog to Tuskevich, who goes to exit with the dog. As Tuskevich leaves, Vronsky comes in. Anna sees him. She turns back to the piano. Betsy glances at her.
BETSY: I want to give a small dinner before the opera. Is there anyone you would like me to ask?
ANNA: Yes . . . Yes, the Metropolitan Bishop of St. Petersburg. Betsy laughs.
66: Countess Lydia tells me you haven't been to one of her evenings since you returned.
ANNA: The last one was to meet a missionary, the one before was for a lecture on the union of the Greek and Roman churches.
(CLIMBS DOWN): I'm sorry--I know you're fond of her. Come on, or we'll be late. Kapitonich opens the door to let them out.
DEMIN: Here's the thing, Vronsky. A posting has come up and there's a promotion in it for you.
VRONSKY: Thank you, sir.
DEMIN: The garrison in Tashkent.
67: Tashkent? But . . . I would like to stay in Peter, sir, if you don't mind.
DEMIN: I don't mind. But your mother . . . The can-can music starts up, to many cheers. Demin claps enthusiastically. Vronsky is angry.
BETSY: You didn't come to my dinner.
VRONSKY: I had to see my Commanding Officer.
68: "She" didn't come either. Vronsky watches Anna through the glasses. Countess Lydia Ivanovna is next to her. Lydia is in her forties, sallow, no beauty, sincerely religious, and determined.
LYDIA: . . . work never ceases for great men. Your husband is a saint and we must all cherish him for Russia's sake. Anna winces a smile.
LYDIA (CONT'D): I hope you can come on afterwards--Father Kristof's report on the Chinese mission will be with lantern slides.
ANNA: I'm expected at the Tverskoys.
LYDIA: No doubt, but I'm sure Princess Betsy can wait for you, my dear. Anna glances at Betsy's box and sees Vronsky there. The opera resumes.
ANNA: Yes. In fact, I think I won't go to Betsy's.
69: Vronsky looks through Betsy's glasses.
BETSY: You're caught.
VRONSKY: I'm afraid I am becoming ridiculous.
LISA MERKALOVA: Now, there's a phenomenon, look-- Anna's shadow has arrived before Anna!
ANNA'S FRIEND: I'm Anna's friend . . . but this making-up- one's-mind-to-it in public is not polite to a distinguished man like Karenin.
PRINCESS MYAGKAYA: In my opinion Karenin is a fool, and Anna is the best of us.
70: And we all love you for your contrary opin- ions, Princess. Vronsky looks around. He knows everybody in the room.
BETSY: Alexei . . . You look desperate. That's not attractive.
VRONSKY: I'm losing hope.
BETSY: Hope of what? Persuading a virtuous woman to break her marriage vows?
VRONSKY: And how is Tuskevich?
BETSY: That's not attractive either. Besides, I was never virtuous.
VRONSKY: No--you're right. She won't come. I'm going home.
71: Vronsky, in a state, lets himself be carried along. Then he changes his mind. He puts his head out of the window to shout to the Coachman.
VRONSKY: Turn round!
VOICES: Wasn't Nilsson glorious? One sees that she has studied Kaulbach, of course . . . There's something Louis Quinze about Tuskevich . . . as if he came with the furniture . . . Betsy is smoking elegantly. She kisses Anna.
BETSY: He's gone. But you're just in time for the surprise. There is a series of minor explosions outside and the darkness out there turns into an illuminated garden lit by fountains of fire, sprays of light. The guests react with cries of pleasure and applause.
72: Anna turns at once to the window near her, puts her face up against the glass, putting her hands to her temples as if to see the illuminations better.
REVERSE: Her self-possessed face, lit by fireworks, falls apart in misery. The firework display continues for a short minute and is applauded. Betsy acknowledges the congratulations and sycophancy which are her due. Foot- men come through the room with trays of ices. Anna is still at the window, unaware that there is only darkness outside. In the room, Betsy notes the oddity: Anna alone with her back to the room.
VRONSKY (CONT'D): Ices are being served.
ANNA: I would prefer to try a cigarette. She sits down. Vronsky takes out a cigarette case. He lights her cigarette. She tries it and coughs.
73: Courage! Anna smiles. Puffs delicately once.
ANNA: Thank you. She gives the cigarette to him.
ANNA (CONT'D): I'll try another one sometime.
VRONSKY: When? She looks at him in surprise. He dunks the cigarette in an abandoned dish of ice cream.
VRONSKY (CONT'D): Where?
ANNA: Just as I was thinking your manners have improved since Moscow. You behaved badly, very badly.
VRONSKY: And who was responsible for that? Anna gets up and walks over to Betsy's chair.
ANNA: Give me a cup of tea.
74: Betsy obediently gets up to fill a cup from the samovar. Vronsky follows Anna. This is watched by more than one guest. Betsy hands the cup to Anna.
BETSY: How nice--Alexei Aleksandrevich has arrived. Karenin enters smiling. Lisa Merkalova and Anna's Friend share a delicious-malicious moment.
LISA MERKALOVA: I'm not sure my nerves can stand another Alexei at this moment. As Betsy and Karenin move smilingly to greet each other, Karenin's radar picks up the two women's intimate laughter. Karenin remains at apparent ease, as though unaware of people's glances at Vronsky and Anna, and he kisses Betsy's hand. Princess Myagkaya has meanwhile gone over to Anna. Anna likes her and is glad of the diversion.
PRINCESS MYAGKAYA: So the Schuzburgs asked us to dinner. The sauce was said to have cost a thousand rou- bles, and it was ghastly. We had to ask them back. I gave them a sauce that cost eighty- five kopeks and it was a triumph. Anna and Vronsky laugh. Princess Myagkaya moves on.
VRONSKY: Were you glad to see me or not?
75: This must stop. You make me feel as if I were guilty of something.
VRONSKY: What do you want me to do?
ANNA: I want you to go to Moscow and beg Kitty to forgive you.
VRONSKY: No, that's not what you want. Moscow? I can do better than that. Tonight I refused a posting to Tashkent. I can change my mind, and you'll never see me again.
ANNA: If you have any thought for me, you will give me back my peace.
VRONSKY: I have no peace to give. There can be no peace for us--only misery or the greatest happiness. You are my whole life now. She looks at him and nods slowly, as if in thought. Betsy diplomatically leads Karenin to Anna.
BETSY: Your husband is impossible!-- his opinions are all wrong but he talks so brilliantly he wins every argument. Anna looks up at her, hearing nothing.
76: What? She notices Karenin, who kisses her hand. Vronsky acknowledges Karenin.
KARENIN: I called to take you home.
ANNA: No, I'm staying. Send the carriage back for me.
KARENIN: Of course. He bows to Betsy. Ignoring Vronsky, he turns away.
LATER: Vronsky is with one group of guests, Anna with another. She is animated, excited, at a small table, involved in a game of cards-- which she wins, to local applause. She speaks a "must go" to Betsy, and swiftly goes to the door.
77: Anna hears hurried footsteps on the stairs. She hesitates. She continues towards the door. Vronsky catches up with her. The Doorkeeper holds the door open.
VRONSKY: Do you want me to go to Tashkent?
VRONSKY: So I'll go to Tashkent.
ANNA: No. I don't want you to go. She turns and goes out. Vronsky follows her.
78: Her face.
ANNA: Waiting up? How unlike you!
KARENIN: Yes, I stayed up to talk to you. Anna keeps going, to her dressing room/boudoir.
ANNA: What about? It's late. Where's Annushka? He waits for her to return without her cloak.
KARENIN: I sent her off.
ANNA: Well, if you want to talk, but we should go to bed.
79: I have to warn you about something.
ANNA: Warn me? It's really rather late . . .
KARENIN: I wish to warn you that you may inadver- tently, by indiscretion and carelessness, give the world occasion to talk about you.
ANNA: I am not a committee. Please say what you want to tell me.
KARENIN: You and Count Vronsky attracted attention tonight.
ANNA: You don't like it when I don't talk to people, and you don't like it when I do.
KARENIN: I didn't notice anything, myself. But I saw that everyone else noticed. I consider jeal- ousy to be insulting to you and degrading to me. I have no right to inquire into your feelings. They concern only your conscience. But I'm your husband and I love you. It's my duty to remind you that we are bound together by God, and this bond can only be broken by a crime against God.
80: I have nothing to say to you, and I'm tired.
KARENIN: And you have a son. She returns to the boudoir. After a moment he follows.
KARENIN: Forgive me.
(TURNING ASIDE): If I am wrong, I ask your pardon.
ANNA: I don't know what you're talking about, and it's really too late for this. Excuse me, please. Because she wants to undress, Karenin leaves her.
ANNA: Too late.
81: In the next instant, seemingly in her own bed, she gasps and jerks as though her body has taken a blow. The CUTS are now between a fragmented narrative of voracious sex ("SEX AS BEFORE") and "prelude to sex," this being a sequence of shots starting with:--
ANNA: Oh God forgive me. It's the end of everything--I've got nothing left now, only you. Remember that.
VRONSKY: Anna . . . Anna . . . how can I not remem- ber? You're my happiness. He draws her back on to the bed, kisses her face, her shoulder . . .
83: Happiness! You murdered my happiness. She tries to leave but he attacks her as a lover, and she gives way, responding.
ANNA (CONT'D): Murderer. Murderer. Go on. Go on. Go on. She starts hitting him.
ANNA (CONT'D): Yes. Go on. Go on. Go on.
LEVIN: I thought that had been done.
VASILI: I gave the order. What can you do with these people? Levin rides on, into an expanded prospect of fields and woods, snow on the ground.
84: When Levin gets in view of the house, he is puzzled by the distant sight of a three-horse sledge arriving.
OBLONSKY: Ah--potage aux choux a la Russe! Agafia comes in with the roast fowl.
OBLONSKY (CONT'D): Agafia!--if you opened up in Moscow, l'Angleterre would go out of business. Do you want news of Moscow?
LEVIN: Of Babylon? No.
OBLONSKY: You're right, what do you care? You love the country--you've got it. You love agricultur- ing, and, Lord knows, you've got it. You love shooting--you've got it. You've got every- thing you want! Agafia, leaving, throws Levin a look (no wife).
LEVIN: All right, go on, then. Have you stopped stealing bread rolls?
85: Ballet girl, oriental type. How can I help it?
LEVIN: So, nothing new to tell me. How is--how are the Shcherbatskys?
OBLONSKY: You mean Kitty.
LEVIN: I . . . Is she engaged now?
OBLONSKY: No. Vronsky went back to St. Petersburg. He waits for this to sink in.
OBLONSKY (CONT'D): Kitty will be at Ergoshovo visiting Dolly in the summer. You could . . .
LEVIN: Oh yes, as if I had time in the summer! And I've got extra land this year at Kashin for the haymaking.
OBLONSKY: Kashin? That's on the Ergoshovo road, isn't it? Won't you call when Kitty is there?
LEVIN: Especially not then. I humiliated myself once. Now it's a row.
86: Damn you, Kostya, you love Kitty and you can't forgive her because, first, you funked it, then you bungled it, then you ran away from an eighteen-year-old girl who was made a fool of by a uniform. It's Kitty I'm sorry for--not you!
LEVIN: Her heart told her no. Did you come to shoot snipe or criticize me?
LEVIN: For you, getting married is . . . a social engage- ment. Not for me. For me, it's the condition of personal happiness and living the right way. I'll never again be carried away by passion. I renounce it. I'll have to find another way . . .
OBLONSKY: Look out--here they come! A couple of snipe come drumming over the trees. The men fire simultane- ously. One snipe falls.
OBLONSKY (CONT'D): Bad luck! Oblonsky laughs. Despite himself, Levin laughs too. Laska retrieves the bird.
SPRING: Dolly has had her baby. She is holding the infant, having just finished feeding him. Kitty is with her.
DOLLY: There. Oh, I'm sore with his feeding! Would you like to hold him? Dolly gives the baby to Kitty, who takes him almost unwillingly. Dolly buttons herself. Kitty's maternal instinct won't engage. Dolly notes it.
DOLLY (CONT'D): Well, don't hold him like a parcel . . . It's Aunt Kitty, darling. . . . Little face . . . little fingers . . . look at you . . . Doesn't he make you ashamed of dwelling on your troubles . . . ?
KITTY: I have no troubles.
DOLLY: That man wasn't worth the tears, believe me.
KITTY: I don't care about him. I don't even think about him. Or her. Except to hate her.
DOLLY: Then we'll never speak of it again. Dolly relieves Kitty of the baby.
88: There are better men waiting for you. Stiva says . . . Kitty, my lamb, did Konstantin Levin . . . ?
KITTY: What has Levin got to do with it? Anyway, I'll never get married. The whole business of . . . it's become disgusting to me . . . and look what it's done for you! Why do they call it love?
DOLLY: Because it's love. Lovingly, she settles the baby in his crib, her face filled with tender joy at the bargain.
SPRING: A lovers' idyll, by a stream on a warm day. Anna, lightly dressed, smoking a cigarette, watches Vronsky fill his wineglass from a tethered bottle in the stream. There is a pony trap which brought them. He comes back to sit by her. She kisses him.
ANNA: I want you to. I don't care about it.
VRONSKY: You should care. You're not supposed to.
89: Pooh! Who says?
VRONSKY: Everybody. Doctors. She laughs and throws her cigarette into the stream.
ANNA: You're squeamish. You a soldier! Would you faint?
VRONSKY: Anyway, someone might be watching. Anna looks all around. Vast emptiness. She lifts a dock leaf to look under it. She looks up at the sky.
ANNA: But I'm damned anyway.
VRONSKY: I'm not. I'm blessed. Anna pushes him onto his back and straddles him.
ANNA: You love me.
VRONSKY: Yes.
ANNA: Only me.
90: No.
ANNA: Apart from Frou-Frou.
VRONSKY: Yes. Anna holds his face between her hands and works her body on him.
ANNA: But me more than your horse?
VRONSKY: Yes.
ANNA: Are you happy?
VRONSKY: Yes.
ANNA: And you love me?
VRONSKY: Yes.
ANNA: How much?
VRONSKY: This much. Anna drags the front of her skirts out of her way.
91: This much?
VRONSKY: Yes.
ANNA: This much?
VRONSKY: Yes.
ANNA: This much?
VRONSKY: Yes.
ANNA: This much? And this much? And this much?
VRONSKY: Yes.
ANNA: And . . . this . . . much . . . ? She falls on him. He strokes her hair. Her hand comes into view, the index finger bloody. She carefully paints his lips with it. She kisses his lips clean, and rolls off him onto her back.
92: So this is love. This.
SUMMER: Korney brings Countess Lydia. Karenin comes from behind his desk to invite her to a chair.
KARENIN: Countess . . . I thought you would be at Peterhof now.
LYDIA: I've come from there. I'm distressed that you haven't taken your usual house this year.
KARENIN: Anna wanted a change. She is spending the summer at Tsarskoe.
LYDIA: Near Princess Betsy. And . . . Karenin waits.
LYDIA (CONT'D): The Guards are in summer camp at Tsarskoe. Karenin waits.
93: Alexei Alexandrovich, forgive me but you are too tolerant! Your wife . . . Karenin affects surprise.
KARENIN: Oh, is this about my wife? He smiles at her.
KARENIN (CONT'D): My wife is beyond reproach. She is, after all, my wife. Countess Lydia gets the message. She rises to go. Karenin kisses her hand and accompanies her to the door. She leaves him, and his social mask gives way to his disturbance.
ALEXANDER: Alyosha . . . a message from Maman. Her friend Princess Sorokina has a house here, and a virgin daughter, that's not part of the
94: message, but they'll all be at the races and you're expected to supper afterwards. The song ends and Demin, half drunk, climbs on the table, shouts for silence and a toast.
DEMIN: Gentlemen--I give you--the regiment! General uproar. "The regiment."
ALEXANDER: I heard you turned down a promotion.
VRONSKY: That was Maman interfering.
ALEXANDER: Yes. And now she's come up with a princess for you.
(SERIOUSLY): Alexei--we're brothers, so don't take offence. Getting married puts the pack on your back--it leaves your hands free for climbing the ladder. Getting serious about a married woman is like carrying your pack in your arms.
95: So they talk about me. I'm leaving, Sasha.
ALEXANDER: An assignation?
VRONSKY: Come on, I'll introduce you.
ALEXANDER: Beautiful. A man would come to no harm. Do you think you'll win tomorrow?
VRONSKY: Makhotin's Gladiator is favourite, sixteen hands--Frou-Frou looks dainty beside him, but she's got heart. Haven't you, my darling? He kisses Frou-Frou.
96: Anna. She has not been expecting him. She is concerned.
ANNA: Alexei, what is it? He shakes his head: nothing. She comes to him and hides her face in his breast. He holds her tight, taking her hand and kissing it.
VRONSKY: I couldn't bear not to see you before the race. She hugs him, kissing his tunic.
VRONSKY (CONT'D): What were you thinking about? She continues to hide her face. He lifts her face.
VRONSKY (CONT'D): Tell me.
ANNA: I'm pregnant. Vronsky presses her hand to his face.
VRONSKY: Ah . . . My love. He kisses her brow and her eyes.
97: Well, love was never a game to us. Here's an end to living in corners, existing day to day on lies. Yes, now we can be together.
ANNA: How can we, Alexei?
VRONSKY: Tell Karenin everything.
ANNA: Do you think my husband will make you a present of me?
VRONSKY: Leave him.
ANNA: Leave him and be your mistress?
VRONSKY: Yes. Run away.
ANNA: I would never see my son again. The laws are made by husbands and fathers.
VRONSKY: What, then? I'll never forgive myself for your unhappiness. Anna looks into his face.
98: Unhappiness? I'm like a starving beggar who has been given food. She smiles rapturously.
ANNA (CONT'D): I unhappy? No, this is my happiness! She kisses him deeply.
KARENIN: How are you, young man? Your tutor doesn't seem to be in evidence. We'll have a look at your lesson books. Anna, coming out of the maze, sees Karenin, recovers.
ANNA: Alexei!--you got away at last. Can you stay?
KARENIN: Why . . . ? Serozha looks scared to tears. Anna kisses him.
99: Go and find Vasily Lukich. Serozha runs into the house.
ANNA (CONT'D): I have to change. Princess Betsy is sending her trap for me. Would you like to come?-- she's taking me to watch the race. Karenin smiles coldly.
KARENIN: Races, surely. No, I'll come on later, and then I must get back to town. Anna returns to the house. She wipes her kissed hand on her skirt.
100: -- arrives at the races . . . making his way towards the front, smiling, raising his hat to acquaintances . . . his eyes busy looking for his wife. He reaches the front and looks up at the Ladies' Stand.
KARENIN: --looks up to the ladies' stand. Betsy smiles at him in greeting, but Anna seems unaware. Countess Vronsky appraises the young princess.
COUNTESS VRONSKY: Exquisite creature . . . you really ought to be the spoil of victory today . . . The young princess smiles at her. Countess Vronsky turns her glasses towards the Starting Post.
101: . . . Vronsky mounts Frou-Frou. The Riders move to the starting line.
KARENIN: . . . watches Anna who is looking through her glasses towards the Starting Post while the current race finishes to cheers.
OBLONSKY: Princess! A bet! What do you fancy in the next?
BETSY: Kusolev.
OBLONSKY: I'm on Vronsky. A pair of gloves?
102: Done!
(TO ANNA): Alexander Vronsky . . . In the aisle at the top of the stand, Karenin watches as:-- Vronsky's brother Alexander, escorting his wife, Varya, bows to Anna and Betsy, but significantly Varya succeeds in not noticing them.
VRONSKY'S POV: The stands and spectators are distant, the first fence coming at him, horses on either side. His neighbour falls at the fence but Frou-Frou is clear, with Gladiator half a length in front. The next fence is coming up. Gladiator and Frou-Frou jump cleanly but a following horse falls badly.
103: -- eases Frou-Frou past Gladiator. The horses take the next jump.
LADIES' STAND: With one hand Anna grips her folded fan. Karenin's face is a mask as he watches Anna unconsciously half-destroying it. She raises her glasses.
VRONSKY: -- working the reins, rising and falling in rhythm with the horse, looks ahead to the winning post, and before knowing it he makes an error, losing the rhythm, dropping back into the saddle and raising the horse's head, just as Frou-Frou takes off.
104: She lowers the glasses and sees Frou-Frou on the ground, rolling over, and Vronsky on the ground.
COUNTESS VRONSKY: -- sees this, too, her mouth set tight with contempt.
KARENIN: --looks shocked. Almost in the same moment he hears Anna's anguished cry, conspicuous in the hubbub that follows the crowd's exclamation.
ANNA: Alexei . . . !
KARENIN: I'm here. This is adroit. He comes down several steps and pushes through to offer his arm, but Anna has lost control, trying to escape like a bird beating against its cage.
KARENIN (CONT'D): Would you like to leave? Anna ignores him, puts her glasses to her eyes, searching out Vronsky.
105: . . . sees an Officer hurrying to the Imperial party to report.
ANNA: Stiva! What are they saying?
OBLONSKY: Vronsky's unhurt--but the horse . . . Anna relapses into sobs, attempting to hide her face behind her destroyed fan. Betsy gives Anna her fan.
VRONSKY: --is restrained by an Officer.
OFFICER: Her back's broken! The Officer takes a pistol from his holster. Vronsky, enraged and in grief, takes the pistol from him.
KARENIN: --persists with Anna.
KARENIN: I'm asking you . . . if you wish to go . . . He touches Anna's arm. She jerks it away.
106: No, leave me alone.
BETSY: I'll bring her home, Alexei.
KARENIN: Excuse me, Princess, but Anna is not well and I want her to come with me. A gunshot is heard from the course. Anna turns her tear-streaked face towards it.
KARENIN: You know . . . they say the Emperor dis- approves of the races . . . the danger of injury . . . but I . . . Anna looks at him contemptuously.
ANNA: What?
KARENIN: I'm saying there is a value in manly sport, for the military--
107: I don't understand.
KARENIN: In my opinion, it's not the sport itself that's wrong, it's the spectacle, it's making a cruel spectacle out of--
ANNA: What are you talking about? Karenin changes tack.
KARENIN: I have to tell you--
ANNA: Yes.
KARENIN: I have to tell you, you behaved improperly today.
ANNA: And how was that? She has raised her voice. He raises a warning finger, and reaches to close the communication window behind the coachman's box.
KARENIN: By making plain your feelings when one of the riders fell. Your conduct was improper. It must not occur again. I have said it before. Anna smiles faintly. He is misled by that.
108: You are going to say my concern is unneces- sary and ridiculous. You are my wife. I am wrong to think that . . . yes--perhaps I was mistaken. Anna looks at him despairingly.
ANNA: No, you were not mistaken. I love him. I am his mistress. I can't bear you, I'm afraid of you, I hate you. Do what you like to me. Karenin is literally winded--gasping for breath, slowly getting his breath- ing under control. Anna huddles away from him in her corner. Karenin recovers himself only to the point of sitting stock-still, looking at nothing, not moving. The coach lurches, unbalancing him so that he is pushed against Anna. He recoils as if from a contamination. The coach slows. The coach stops. A Servant comes to the coach door, opens the door.
KARENIN: Wait, please. Move away. The Servant backs off.
KARENIN (CONT'D): I will not have a scandal. Therefore . . . You will not see . . . this man again. You will behave in such a way that nothing is known against you, by society or by the servants. In return, you will keep the privileges of a
109: wife--and the duties. Tomorrow you will return home. That is all. Anna gets out of the coach and runs into the maze.
ANNA: Are you hurt? Vronsky shakes his head. He is moved by the sight of her, full of love and desire, but in her embrace he detects something new, a nervous exaltation.
VRONSKY: What's happened?
ANNA: I told him I'm your mistress. Vronsky lifts her face, strokes her cheek. He waits.
ANNA (CONT'D): He thinks I can give you up and go on living. He embraces her for that, relieved, grateful, loving--understanding that she is not going to give him up.
110: No, you cannot.
MAJOR DOMO: Their Excellencies Minister Karenin and Madame Karenin! Karenin, wearing his medal, and Anna smile their way into a party, to a patter of polite applause. Further grandees are being announced, but are not applauded . . . Prince and Princess Berghatskoy . . . Ambassador Chamber- lain . . . Baron and Baroness Verdlov . . . Prince and Princess Tverskoy . . .
BETSY: Alexei Aleksandrevich . . . congratulations. You're the only man my husband would do this for.
ANNA: (To Prince Tverskoy) Tell me your latest find for your library.
PRINCE TVERSKOY: Not in front of the Princess.
111: Betsy draws Anna away for a moment.
BETSY: I can tell you're happy. You've put on a little weight.
ANNA: Both true.
KARENIN: Time for bed!
112: . . . not that I care for decorations but . . .
ANNA: Alexei . . . I can't . . . I'm sorry . . . But I'm his wife now. (she turns to him) I am having his child. Karenin stares at her. He turns back to the open drawer and puts things back the way they were. He locks the drawer. He puts on his dressing gown and leaves the room. Anna waits a moment and follows him.
KARENIN: Tell me what I did to deserve this.
113: Konstantin Dmitrich, you'll know your rows when the field's all done! Levin's row has stalks of differing heights between the even swathes on either side. There is some laughter, but the men are uneasy.
LEVIN: How many mowers is it, Theodore?
THEODORE: Forty-two, master. In your father's time it was work for two days for thirty men . . .
(SLYLY): . . . though he never picked up a scythe himself.
114: The men don't like me for it.
THEODORE: They like what they're used to.
LEVIN: It settles me.
THEODORE: How is that, master?
LEVIN: When I'm mowing, I don't ask myself why I'm here.
THEODORE: You're here to be master, Konstantin Dmi- trich, to be your father's son, and father to a son who will be master after you, as it has always been by the grace of God.
LEVIN: My father owned you, Theodore. My grand- father owned your father. Owned you like chattels, to be bought and sold. Was that by the grace of God?
THEODORE: It was. Those were good times when your father had the keeping of us. That's my youngest you were looking at there. His young life is perilous now since the Free- dom came and work must be found.
115: It's true I was looking at him.
THEODORE: At his wife too, I dare say. Levin is abashed, found out.
LEVIN: They look happier than I've ever been. Is it living simply that I'm looking for?
AUTUMN: Vronsky stands at the entrance to the platform holding a bouquet, waiting for a train. He looks pretty fed up.
VRONSKY: He's some kind of prince at home. Exhaust- ing. Where is Tuskevitch this evening?
BETSY: Why ask me? At which moment, Makhotin appears at the table. Vronsky relinquishes his chair.
117: Captain Makhotin . . . Vronsky bows to the women.
VRONSKY (CONT'D): I must leave you. I'm on duty tonight.
MAKHOTIN: Lucky woman. Give her my respects, and to Karenin if you see him. Vronsky freezes in anger.
BETSY: Don't. Would you compromise me? And Lisa? Lisa and Stremov are enjoying it. Vronsky turns away. The Foreign Prince is applauding enthusiastically when Vronsky rejoins him.
STREMOV: I only say that a man who can't govern his wife has perhaps gone as far as he can go in government.
118: A cab brings Vronsky. The Karenin coach is waiting outside. As Vronsky approaches the door, it opens and Kapitonich comes out with a folded rug. Kapitonich is wrong-footed by seeing him. Karenin comes out of the door, into the gaslight. When he sees Vronsky he hesitates for a fraction but con- tinues. Kapitonich is holding open the door of the coach. Vronsky bows, Karenin, expressionless, touches his hat and gets into the coach, taking the rug. Vronsky walks into the house as the coach moves off.
KAPITONICH: Good evening, Your Excellency. Kapitonich is uneasy. A Footman comes from a service door. He sees Vron- sky and looks to Kapitonich.
VRONSKY: I am expected. Kapitonich nods to the Footman.
119: No!--no. I will not live like this! He holds her, calming her, hushing her. He leads her into a Winter Garden conservatory off the Reception Room.
ANNA (CONT'D): Waiting hour after hour while you're drink- ing champagne with naked actresses-- don't think I don't know!--Lisa Merkalova still calls on me.
VRONSKY: It's punishment enough that I'm on escort duty, without . . .
ANNA: Yes--I'm sorry--it's my demon, I can't help it.
VRONSKY: You wrote that you were ill.
ANNA: Did I? Well, I am!
(GAILY): But don't worry! It won't be for long, I'll soon be out of your way--soon!
VRONSKY: Stop.
ANNA: No, it's true. I was told it in a dream.
120: There, it was only a bad dream.
ANNA: Yes, and I'm only going to die having your baby.
VRONSKY: That's all nonsense! She kisses him all over his face.
ANNA: Tell me it is, tell me it is. You love me. Only me.
VRONSKY: Your note said your husband would be out.
ANNA: He was late. Serves him right. And you. Why do you call him my husband? He isn't my husband--he's a clock, a wooden doll--
VRONSKY: But it was awkward . . . a matter of your honour. You made an agreement. Anna flares up again.
ANNA: Do you think of my honour when you're sharing whores with your Hindoo!
VRONSKY: Your demon again!
121: I'll be glad to die, before you start to hate me!
VRONSKY: Anna . . . Anna gives a gasp. She laughs.
ANNA: Put your hand there. There! Did you feel him move!
STREMOV: I must respectfully ask Minister Karenin whether his proposals for the regulation of these colourful Gypsy tribes, of these schol- arly God-fearing Jews, and of--but I'm afraid I have lost the Minister's attention . . . All turn to look at Karenin, who sits staring at nothing, unaware even of the pause. He wakes. For a beat he hardly knows where he is.
122: Who is here?
KAPITONICH: Only Madame, Your Excellency. Karenin goes up the staircase. There is an urgency in him, a fury.
ANNA: I wanted to see him because . . .
KARENIN: I do not wish to be told why a woman wants to see her lover. He pulls furiously at the locked drawer, then looks around for an implement.
ANNA: What are you . . . ?
KARENIN: I want his letters. Karenin finds an iron bootjack. Anna tries to stop him. He pushes her aside and smashes the wood around the lock, then, struggling against her, he takes from the open drawer a pretty cardboard box, a good guess. He confirms that it contains letters.
123: I am going to Moscow tomorrow, and then to the provinces with a commission to investigate conditions among the Jews and Gypsies--whose conditions I infinitely prefer to my own. I will not return to this house until divorce has put you into the street. Meanwhile my son will be sent to live with my eldest sister.
ANNA: Alexei . . . please . . . leave me Serozha . . . ! Karenin looks at her with contempt.
KARENIN: Do you think I would let you have my son? You are depraved, a woman without honour. I thank God the curse of love is lifted from me. He walks out with the box of letters.
WINTER AGAIN: Oblonsky arrives outside his office building in a cab. He enters.
124: Levin stands up in his almost new, hardly used coat, top hat and boots.
OBLONSKY: Levin! What . . . ? Levin smiles, hopefully, sheepish.
LEVIN: I need your advice . . . It's a reprise. Oblonsky understands. He seizes Levin and kisses him.
COUNTESS NORDSTON: Well, is he coming? Kitty, keeping half an eye on the door, sees Levin enter and misses the page- turn. Oblonsky goes to greet Levin.
LEVIN: Am I late? Who is here?
OBLONSKY: Of course you're late! Come and meet . . . Countess Nordston.
125: (drily, amused) We nearly met at the Shcherbatsky's last winter. Levin, puzzled, bows to her and to the Prince and Princess, who are respec- tively pleased and making the best of it, and then to Dolly who approaches.
PRINCE SHCHERBATSKY: Come into the fold . . .
DOLLY: Kitty is here. Levin is shaken. Dolly leads him to Kitty, who is frightened, shy and shamefaced. Dolly leaves them.
KITTY: Konsantin . . . what a long time since we saw each other.
LEVIN: Since you saw me, but I saw you not so long ago.
KITTY: When?
LEVIN: You were driving to Ergoshovo . . . I was at Kashin for the haymaking.
KITTY: Oh, but why didn't you . . . ? They are both embarrassed by the wrong step.
126: I'm so glad to see you. You're just the same.
KITTY: I hope not--I was young and silly in those days.
LEVIN: Months and months ago!
KITTY: And you haven't changed.
LEVIN: No. I haven't. Kitty looks up at him, decoding. They gauge each other shyly.
OBLONSKY: Permit me to announce--soup Marie Lou- ise, carp with asparagus, and roast beef! I went to the market in person! But Matvey at that moment presents Oblonsky with a visiting card on a salver. Oblonsky reads it.
OBLONSKY (CONT'D): An extra place.
127: Karenin!--I'm glad you came.
KARENIN: I've been on tour in the regions, a govern- ment commission . . . I'm sorry--I have come to tell you our connection must be severed. I'm going to divorce your sister.
OBLONSKY: Divorce? Dear me, what are you talking about? Don't be in a hurry. Stay to dinner and later talk it over with Dolly--
KARENIN: Prince Oblonsky, everything is over between our families.
OBLONSKY: Alexei . . . divorce is one thing but dinner is quite another.
PRINCESS SHCHERBATSKY: You Petersburgers think yourselves so de bon ton compared with dull, old-fashioned
128: Moscow, but we know how to do things-- only the other day, I hear, Vasya Pryachnikov fought a duel with Kvitsky and killed him. Oblonskky attempts to divert the conversation.
OBLONSKY: Well, what's this government commission, Karenin . . . ? But Karenin ignores him. Oblonsky looks on helplessly.
KARENIN: What was the challenge about?
PRINCESS SHCHERBATSKY: Pryachnikov's wife, naturally.
PRINCE SHCHERBATSKY: It was a matter of honour, defending a woman's honour . . . Karenin remains cool.
KARENIN: It sounds like barbarism to me . . . And what if the lover had killed the husband?-- would that have preserved the wife's honour too?
COUNTESS NORDSTON: Still, not many of us can say that our lover died for love!
129: Love? Thou shall not covet thy neighbour's wife.
COUNTESS NORDSTON: Would you die for love, Konstantin Dmitrich?
LEVIN: I would. But not for my neighbour's wife. Levin is nettled to find that he seems to have made a joke, for the Countess especially. Kitty remains serious, watching Levin, loving him.
LEVIN (CONT'D): An impure love is not love, to me. To admire another man's wife is a pleasant thing, but sensual desire indulged for its own sake is greed, a kind of gluttony, and a misuse of something sacred which is given to us so that we may choose the one person with whom to fulfill our humanness. Otherwise we might as well be cattle.
COUNTESS NORDSTON: Ah, an idealist! Reconciliatory laughter eases the atmosphere. Levin feels abashed at coming out of his shell. He steals a glance at Kitty and finds her looking at him. She smiles at him and drops her eyes.
130: . . . but she will be nobody's wife, she'll be ruined.
KARENIN: I tried to save her. She chose ruin.
DOLLY: Alexei Aleksandrevich--look at me. You will have no peace of mind until you forgive her. It was Anna who taught me that.
KARENIN: I do not wish to forgive. I am not a cruel man. I have never hated anyone. But I hate her with all my soul for all the wrong she has done me. Levin and Kitty are at the card table, with a spillage of the alphabet pieces.
OBLONSKY: It's your turn to play us something, Countess.
LEVIN: Since we last met, there is something I have often wanted to ask you.
KITTY: What is that? Levin sorts through the alphabet pieces as though he is putting off the moment, but he quickly puts four letters spaced out in a row: D N M N.
131: This. Kitty tries.
KITTY: Do Not . . . Levin adds an I next to the D.
KITTY (CONT'D): Did. Did Not. Levin shakes his head. He adds an E next to the second N. Kitty concentrates.
KITTY (CONT'D): The last word is Never. Levin nods. Kitty puts letters in place. They read DID NO MEAN
LEVIN: I know what it says. Dolly, looking across the room, sees Kitty and Levin serious and smiling, rapt. Levin places extra letters: THEN I DID NOT KNOW. Kitty nods.
132: Then. But now? Kitty finds C Y F A F.
LEVIN (CONT'D): Can You. Kitty nods.
LEVIN (CONT'D): Can you Forgive. And Forget. Levin puts down I L Y.
LEVIN (CONT'D): I never stopped . . . He looks up to see silent tears streaming down her face. His own eyes flood.
KARENIN: Die, then. He stands in the snow, uncertain.
133: Karenin sits like a statue.
KARENIN: How is your mistress?
KAPITONICH: Safely delivered of a daughter, Your Excellency.
KARENIN: So . . . she is well?
KAPITONICH: The mistress is very poorly. The doctor . . . Karenin, going to the stairs, sees Vronsky's cloak and cap on the coat stand.
134: Karenin sees Vronsky sitting with his hands over his face. Vronsky jumps up in confusion.
VRONSKY: She's dying. Please let me stay. Karenin looks at him coldly and enters the bedroom.
DOCTOR: Thank God! She talks only of you. In her delirium, Anna keeps up a bright prattle.
ANNA: Why doesn't he come? He is kind. He will forgive me.
MIDWIFE: He's here--look--look--can't you see him?
ANNA: I want Alexei! Why doesn't he come? Give me some water. No, I mustn't, it's not good for my little girl. Or let her have a nurse. Yes--don't bring her here, because Alexei is coming and it will hurt him to see her.
135: He's come, my dear--look there . . . Annushka gives way to Karenin, who kneels by the bed, taking Anna's hand.
DOCTOR: More ice. Annushka hurries out.
ANNA: Oh, what nonsense. I must be asleep, that's what it is. You think he won't forgive me but you don't know him. No one knows him except me. I'm not afraid of him now. Karenin gazes at her. He looks at her as he's never looked at her.
ANNA (CONT'D): I'm afraid of death, though. Karenin tries to speak but cannot. He starts making shushing noises as to a baby. She quietens down. She seems to recognise him.
ANNA (CONT'D): Oh, my dear. Don't look at me like that. I am not the one you think. I'm afraid of her. She fell in love with another man. I'm the real one. But I'm dying now, then she'll be dead, too. Poor man! Let him come in. Alexis! Alexis!
136: Vronsky hears her calling. He comes into the bedroom.
ANNA: Take your hands away from your face. Look at my husband. He's a saint! Take his hand. Alexei--take his hands away. Karenin pulls Vronsky's fingers, and holds on to Vronsky's hand.
ANNA (CONT'D): Forgive him, too. Thank God, thank God . . .
DAWN: Anna is asleep. Karenin is alone with her. The crisis seems to be over. She opens her eyes.
ANNA (CONT'D): So you came. Karenin puts his face down to her shoulder. She strokes him.
ANNA (CONT'D): If I had died as I wanted, you would be free of your troubles at last.
137: I am free of them. Anna closes her eyes and sleeps again.
VRONSKY: Whatever you think of me, please believe me, I love her--I could not have done other- wise than what I . . . what I did. Karenin nods and sits next to him.
KARENIN: But you must leave now. I promise to send for you if she asks for you. I don't know what happened. I forgive you. I forgive Anna. My soul is filled with joy. I will remain with her and look after her for ever. Karenin stands up and offers his hand. Vronsky grasps it and starts shaking.
KARENIN (CONT'D): Come now, come now . . . Karenin embraces him, comforting him.
138: Vronsky arrives back at his flat . . . and finds his mother waiting for him in his sitting room.
COUNTESS VRONSKY: Look at you. You look like what you are. A laughingstock. I fancy you are to be asked to leave the regiment.
VRONSKY: I would like you to go, Maman.
COUNTESS VRONSKY: I will go when I'm ready to go. A little affair with a married woman puts a finish- ing touch to a young man's education--but this morbid, selfish obsession . . . ! You have publicly humiliated a man who has devoted his life to Russia, and it will not be forgot- ten. You'd better come back to Moscow with me. You're finished here.
VRONSKY: In Petersburg? (he taps his breastbone) I'm finished here.
139: Levin is half-dressed in clothes to be married in, assisted by Matvey and watched over by Oblonsky, who is in wedding clothes. Levin is frantic. Oblonsky is perplexed. Matvey is unflappable, holding Levin's coat ready and following him around.
LEVIN: . . . no, I'll go to her and tell her it's not too late to stop this business! Better now than when we're married and she realises she doesn't love me!
OBLONSKY: But she does love you!
LEVIN: How can she? I mean, look at me! Suppose she's only marrying me to get married? Suppose she's still in love with Vronsky? She's making a terrible mistake! I'll go to her and tell her she's free, that's what I must do . . .
MATVEY: Your coat, sir. Levin snatches the coat and puts it on, and dashes out of the room.
140: Levin, in disarray, is let into the house. The entrance hall is crowded, loud and chaotic with children, maids, governesses and Kitty's mother. Tanya, Masha and Lili are bridesmaids. Grisha is a page. Princess Shcherbatsky, trying to create order among last-minute bouquet distribution, hair- adjustments, shoe-changing, etc., sees Levin and explodes.
PRINCESS SHCHERBATSKY: Konstantin!--what-- ?
LEVIN: I have to talk to Kitty.
PRINCESS SHCHERBATSKY: You're not allowed to see her! Levin gallops up the stairs.
KITTY: No. I don't understand at all! What's the matter with you?
LEVIN: You can't love me. Think it over! Let people say what they like!
141: Are you mad? Have you changed your mind?
LEVIN: Yes. If you don't love me.
KITTY: But I do love you! Levin hesitates, desperate.
LEVIN: Do you? Well, I love you!
KITTY: Oh, Konstantin! They link hands through the opening, each with a hand to kiss.
142: The Priest lifts crowns from their heads, and invites them to kiss each other, relieving them of their candles. The Choir bursts with pride.
BETSY: . . . and there was her husband wearing her best ballgown, rouge all over his face . . . ma chere, le scandale! . . . But I'd better tell you some regimental news . . .
143: Karenin enters and sees a glamorous Footman standing in the entrance hall, holding a white fur cape.
KARENIN: Who is here?
FOOTMAN: Princess Elisabeth Federovna Tverskaya, Your Excellency.
KARENIN: Please excuse me.
ANNA: No--stay.
144: I am so glad to see you. Everyone asks after you. Karenin bows to her and kisses Anna's hand.
KARENIN: You look feverish.
BETSY: We have been talking too much--so I'm going.
ANNA: Princess Betsy came to tell me . . . I don't want to hide anything from you . . . Count Vronsky asked to come to say goodbye--he's going away. I have said I can't receive him. Betsy kisses Anna.
BETSY: Goodbye, my treasure. Karenin follows Betsy out. Anna gives in to a moment of grief, and recovers herself when she hears the crack of Karenin's knuckles. He comes in.
KARENIN: I agree with you. As he is going away, there is no need for Count Vronsky to come here.
145: I have just said so, so there's no need to repeat it.
KARENIN: But it is for you to decide.
ANNA: Yes, and I decided.
KARENIN: Then I am very glad that--
ANNA: That we agree, so perhaps we can stop talk- ing about it.
KARENIN: Of course. Is there anything I can do for you?
ANNA: Yes, can you please please please stop crack- ing your knuckles.
(PAUSE): I'm a bad woman. But I can't breathe. Your kindness which I can't repay, and your
KARENIN: You begged me for my forgiveness.
ANNA: But I didn't die and now I have to live with it! If only you would have gone on hating me.
146: But then--what? What? What do you want? Do you know what you want? Do you want to see Count Vronsky?
ANNA: Not to say goodbye.
KARENIN: I can't hear.
ANNA: Not to say goodbye.
KARENIN: You would be lost. Irretrievably lost. You would have no position. And worse if we divorce. You would be the guilty party. That means you cannot legally remarry. Your union with Count Vronsky would be illegitimate, and so would your daughter who now has the protection of my name. And that is what you want! It would be a sin to help you destroy yourself.
ANNA: You forget something. Count Vronsky and I love each other.
KARENIN: And this love sanctifies a criminal folly?
147: All I know is that I sent him away and it's as if I'd shot myself through the heart!
KARENIN: I see. And Serozha . . . ? It's the crux for Anna, and she is prepared for it.
ANNA: I would die for him, but I won't live like this for him. When he knows about love, he'll forgive me. Karenin can see where this takes him.
KARENIN: Then I must choose the smaller sin. Vronsky robbed me of my cloak and I will give him my coat. I will give you grounds to divorce me, and I'll accept the scandal, the humilia- tion and the consequences to my career.
ANNA: No . . . I can't . . .
KARENIN: You may write to him but I would prefer you not to see him until you have left this house.
148: Two coaches, each with considerable luggage, have a rendezvous, one coach on the bridge.
VRONSKY: You look like a boy. But so pale. We'll go south . . . to the sea air and sunshine . . .
149: Early morning. In a big untidy bed, Vronsky and Anna lie asleep, naked and satiated. The style of the room, and the warmth of the light, tell of the journey made, confirmed by the view from the window, an attractive panorama from an elevation above the sea. In the room, there are open, unpacked or partly unpacked trunks and cases, and, abandoned untidily, Anna's and Vronsky's clothes.
SLYUDIN: . . . and Madame Odette in person, so to speak, Your Excellency, with your permission . . . A respectful cough at the door reveals an obsequious male Shopkeeper. Kar- enin is bewildered.
KARENIN: Madame Odette . . . ?
SHOPKEEPER: Excuse the liberty, Your Excellency . . . it's for a bonnet and some ribbons Her Excel- lency has overlooked. If you wish us to address ourselves to Her Excellency, please be so good as to tell us where we might . . . Karenin is stricken into immobility, his face hiding in one propped-up hand. A tear falls on the blotter. Slyudin rescues him, ushering the Shopkeeper out.
150: Countess Lydia arrives in full fluttering cry.
LYDIA: I have forced my way in! I have heard!
KARENIN: Countess, every shopkeeper has heard.
LYDIA: My dear friend! Don't give way to sorrow. Our Lord Jesus Christ has you in his care.
KARENIN: No, I'm done for. I don't understand any- thing. All day long I'm being asked to make decisions about bills and servants, the kitchen, Serozha's clothes . . .
LYDIA: I understand. I understand everything. I am going to act. The household arrangements you can leave to me. I will come every day. I will be a second mother to Serozha. He clasps both her hands and kisses them. Lydia falls to her knees.
LYDIA (CONT'D): He that humbleth himself shall be exalted! You must not thank me. Thank Him whose love pours through me!
151: The sleigh brings Levin and Kitty home through deep snow all around. The house comes into view.
SLEIGH: They have been on honeymoon travels, attested by hotel labels on the lug- gage. Kitty, eager and anxious, looks at the approaching house. Not too bad. Levin takes her hand. She smiles at him, to calm him.
LEVIN: This is Agafia, and Vasili, the steward . . . My wife, Ekaterina Alexandrovna Levin.
KITTY: I am very pleased to meet you both. Kuzma sidles by with a bow and goes to take the luggage from the sleigh.
LEVIN: And that was Kuzma. Come inside!
152: Careful--door's still a bit . . . (to Levin's look) it's all right, it'll be dry tomorrow . . .
LEVIN: Is it all right? Kitty nods, smiles gamely--it's not like home.
LEVIN (CONT'D): Sit down a minute.
KITTY: No--I want to see everything. Agafia panics.
LEVIN: A moment. Levin follows Agafia out.
153: . . . and now I'm doing kitchen maid's work because Nadya's parents won't let her set foot in this house, and who can blame them!--it's indecent!
LEVIN: It's me, Konstantin.
NIKOLAI: Yes, good. The doctor here is useless--get me a doctor from Moscow.
LEVIN: Where did you go? I asked for you every- where, when I was getting married. Nikolai sighs and closes his eyes. Levin retreats, looks to Masha.
MASHA: I'm sorry . . . I couldn't leave him. I know I've done wrong.
154: Yes. My wife . . . You can't stay now. Levin goes outside to Agafia and closes the door.
AGAFIA: I couldn't go against Nikolai Dmitrich's orders . . .
LEVIN: Yes--yes . . . She's going. An unwelcome thought strikes Levin.
LEVIN (CONT'D): Did the doctor see her? Agafia nods guiltily.
LEVIN: I will nurse him with Agafia . . . The woman will find somewhere in the village. You won't see her. She knows it's impossible for you to meet her. It is a torment to me that I have brought you under the same roof
155: as this unfortunate . . . this fallen . . . and in your precious, in your delicate condition . . . Kitty detaches herself abruptly and leaves the room. He hears her going upstairs. After a moment, he follows.
KITTY: Good. A clean nightshirt and sheets. A towel and a clean pail of warm water. Ask Agafia for vinegar, and to prepare a bed somewhere for Masha. Wait. Kitty goes back into the room and returns at once with a chamber-pot which she thrusts at Levin.
KITTY (CONT'D): And bring the perfume bottle in the outside pocket of my handbag. She goes back into the room and doesn't return. Levin, humbled, goes down the stairs.
156: Nikolai lies naked in clean sheets. Masha hauls him up into a sitting posi- tion. Kitty puts a nightshirt over his head. Nikolai protests feebly.
KITTY: I'm not looking. Masha and Kitty pull the nightshirt over his body. Kitty pulls the sheet up over him. Masha adjusts the fresh pillow. She combs his hair (and beard).
LATER--NIGHT: Nikolai lies quietly in a neat bed in the neat room, with medicine and water jug, etc., tidily by the bed. Masha keeps vigil by candlelight, holding his hand, singing to him quietly.
NIKOLAI: I'm going . . .
157: Levin, feeling out of place, is at the washstand. He notices there is a prettily wrapped new cake of soap. He picks it up and puts it to his nose. Masha and Kitty are kneeling by the bed. The Priest bends over Nikolai holding up an icon in front of Nikolai's face and murmuring the prayers. Levin, embarrassed, puts down the soap and comes forward and kneels too.
LATER: Nikolai is at the point of death. Levin stares, torn between the mystery and the lack of mystery, the ordinariness of the body finally wearing out. The death rattle comes. Masha kisses the dead hand. The Priest continues to murmur. Kitty takes hold of Masha's hand. Levin stares into Nikolai's face: if this is death, what is life?
LATER: Nikolai lies dead, candles burning at his head and feet.
LEVIN: Thank you, Father . . . and how much . . . ? He offers a handful of paper money.
158: At your benevolence. It is a custom, not a levy, Your Excellency . . . Jesus overturned the money-tables outside the temple, but . . . He shrugs and puts the money away, and returns to his soup.
KITTY: You're such an expert on love, Kostya . . . why didn't you know it when you saw it?
159: When Lydia enters, Karenin, alone in the chamber, is sitting immobile, defeated. He starts gathering his papers. Lydia comes to him. Her agitation explained, she takes an opened letter from her bag.
LYDIA: Alexei, they're back! Here in St. Petersburg! She has written to me. Karenin accepts the letter and reads it.
KARENIN: To you? . . . I think I don't have the right to refuse . . . It's the boy's birthday . . .
LYDIA: My friend . . . you would be blowing on the embers of a fire which must be allowed to die . . . Let me write to her.
160: It's very early morning. The street is not awake. A hired cab brings Anna to her former home. She is heavily veiled, and carries the wrapped parcel from the toy shop. The cab is to wait for her. She rings the doorbell. A sleepy Servant opens the big wooden door.
ANNA: I'm here to see Sergei Alexeyich. The young Servant doesn't know her. Anna steps past him, pushing money into his hand.
ANNA: I have brought something for Sergei Alexeyich. Kapitonich scrutinises her, prepared to forestall her.
KAPITONICH: He is not up yet. Would you wish to wait? Who shall I say . . . ? Kapitonich peers at her and realises who she is. He steps back and bows.
KAPITONICH (CONT'D): Please come in, Your Excellency.
161: Anna goes quickly to the stairs.
KAPITONICH (CONT'D): Allow me to announce you. The tutor may be there and not dressed. Anna shakes her head and is almost running away from him. Kapitonich gives chase.
KAPITONICH: Please allow me!
ANNA: I've come to see Sergei Alexeyich. Kapitonich reaches these stairs, calling, "Your Excellency . . . !"
162: Anna dashes for Serozha's door and flings herself through it.
KAPITONICH: He's been moved to the small sitting room.
KAPITONICH: I'll just look in. Anna shakes her head and walks past him, into the room.
163: The curtains are drawn closed. The room is dim. Anna sees Serozha sitting up, yawning, his eyes closed, and falling back on the pillow. She comes to the bed and whispers his name. Serozha raises himself on his elbow, opens his eyes and smiles dreamily and falls forward into her arms.
SEROZHA: Mama.
ANNA: Oh, my dear little boy.
SEROZHA: I knew you would come. Today is my birthday. Serozha rubs his face on her neck, falls back on the pillow, only half awake and going back to sleep. Anna looks at him avidly, touching his forearms, his shoulders, the hair over his ears. She can't stop her own tears. He comes awake.
SEROZHA (CONT'D): Are you crying?
ANNA: I won't cry. It's time for you to get dressed. And I almost forgot your present, look . . . open it . . . Serozha takes off her hat.
SEROZHA: You don't want that . . . Let me see.
164: Serozha tears open the package, lifts the lid of the cardboard box and finds a puppet, a beautifully dressed marionette.
SEROZHA (CONT'D): Oh, he's grand!
KORNEY: It's your fault for letting her in!--you should be sacked.
KAPITONICH: Oh yes, you would have sent her packing! Ten years I've been keeping the door and the mistress was always kind to me. You should stick to stealing the master's clothes.
LUKICH: I've had enough of this--it's my job to get the boy out of bed before His Excellency comes . . .
165: Darling Kutik, Maman can't stay . . . Serozha clings to Anna.
SEROZHA: Don't go!--he's not coming yet.
ANNA: Yes, I must, and you must love Papa-- he's better than I am. When you're grown-up . . .
SEROZHA: No one in the whole world is better than you. Anna hugs him.
166: Anna comes "home" from Karenin's house. The visit has changed her. She sits down in her hat and coat. Annushka comes in.
ANNA: Where's Anya?
ANNUSHKA: She's still asleep. Should I take your coat? Anna shakes her head.
ANNUSHKA (CONT'D): Are you feeling unwell, Madame?
ANNA: I'm not sleeping.
ANNUSHKA: I can send out for something. Anna nods.
LATER: Twilight. Anna appears not to have moved. The baby is heard crying in another room. Anna's face remains set, but she reacts on hearing Vronsky coming in.
VRONSKY: Why are you in the dark? He turns on a gaslight.
167: Yashvin is going to call . . . you remember him. (about her clothes) Are you going out?
ANNA: To where? To whom?
VRONSKY: What's the matter?
ANNA: I didn't know what happened to you.
VRONSKY: But I told you yesterday . . . My brother . . .
ANNA: Does it take all day for you to meet your brother? Does he need you more than I do? Vronsky sits next to her and puts his arms round her.
VRONSKY: What's happened? Anna shakes her head.
VRONSKY (CONT'D): Well . . . Alexander agreed to everything. Mother's house in Moscow will go to him, and the country estate will be our new home . . . as soon as the divorce . . . Karenin hasn't answered your letter yet? Anna shakes her head. She stands up at last and takes off her hat.
168: Yashvin is a welcome visitor.
YASHVIN: It's wonderful to have you both returned.
ANNA: How good you are to come. You're the very first person to call on me since our return. Yashvin gets the point of that. He is embarrassed.
ANNA (CONT'D): I received a note from Princess Betsy asking me if I'd call on her between six-thirty and eight. Or was it seven? Yashvin got the point of that, too.
ANNA (CONT'D): Alas, between six-thirty and seven is just when I'm unable to see her!
YASHVIN: But perhaps you'll meet at the opera tonight?
ANNA: I would love to be there if I could get a box.
YASHVIN: Madame, your box is number four! You'll find me there with Princess Myagkaya. Will you come, Vronsky?
169: Vronsky shakes his head. Yashvin kisses Anna's hand.
ANNA: I see why . . . Alexei is so fond of you. Yashvin laughs and bows himself out.
VRONSKY: You know you can't go to the theatre?
ANNA: Annushka!
VRONSKY: For heaven's sake-- Annushka comes.
ANNA: A bath. I'll come in and choose a dress. Annushka goes.
VRONSKY: Anna--I implore you--don't you know . . . ?
ANNA: I'm not ashamed of who I am or what I've done: are you ashamed for me? Why do you keep a room at the hotel? Aren't we together? Have you changed towards me?
VRONSKY: It's because I love you and care about you.
170: If that's the case, I don't know why you aren't coming with me.
VRONSKY: That would make it worse.
ANNA: You're afraid. Well, I'm not.
PRINCESS MYAGKAYA: Anna . . . ! She picks up on the surrounding effect of this, and rubs it in with mischief, taking Anna's arm. princess myagkaya (cont'd) Something has done you good--you look wonderful.
171: Vronsky sits and broods. Angrily, he changes his mind. He jumps up call- ing for Franz.
PRINCESS MYAGKAYA: Should we visit or stay put? Anna sees Vronsky entering on the side-aisle below. He looks up at the boxes, seeking her. She turns away.
ANNA: Stay put. Princess Myagkaya has engaged the attention of Stremov in the neighbour- ing box.
172: Minister! Congratulations. Come in for a moment. But Stremov only bows coldly and turns away. Yashvin notes this and begins to chew his moustache anxiously. Anna's neighbour on the other side, a meek husband of a battle-axe, admires her openly. Anna sees that Vronsky has stopped to talk to Countess Vronsky and the Princesses Sorokina. The young Princess seems animated by Vronsky, who bows himself away. Princess Myagkaya sees where Anna is looking. princess myagkaya (cont'd) Princess Sorokina and her daughter, they're from Moscow, neighbours of Countess Vron- sky, quite well off, no sons, she's a widow. Anna gives her a smiling but wounded look. princess myagkaya (cont'd) My dear, I'm a sales catalogue.
VRONSKY: You'll come up to see us afterwards . . . ?
ALEXANDER: Talk to Varya.
173: Alexander indicates his seat to Vronsky. Vronsky sits by Varya.
VRONSKY: Will you call on Anna?
VARYA: Oh, Alexei . . . I'm fond of you . . . but . . .
VRONSKY: For God's sake, Anna isn't a criminal!
VARYA: I'd call on her if she'd only broken the law. But she broke the rules. Vronsky is angry and offended. He gets up, bows to Varya. When he looks up, he sees Betsy beckoning to him from her box.
PRINCESS MYAGKAYA: Who has made the decor? Haven't we got a programme? Colonel, would you be so kind . . . ?
YASHVIN: Of course. Anna's neighbour, emboldened, offers her his programme.
174: Please . . . I would be honoured if you would take mine . . .
ANNA: Thank you, how very . . . The Neighbour's Wife, catching this, reacts as though electrocuted.
PRINCE TVERSKOY: Catullus, printed in Venice, 1501 . . . remarkable. A grovelling House Manager appears in their midst, to tell Betsy she can't smoke in the box.
HOUSE MANAGER: A thousand apologies, Princess, but . . . Princess Betsy blows smoke and hands the cigarette, in its holder, to a figure standing quietly in the shadowy corner of the box: Makhotin. Makhotin takes the cigarette from the holder, crushes it in his left palm. He feels humiliated . . . but that's love. The House Manger bows and leaves.
VRONSKY: Captain Makhotin . . . The Angry Wife's voice cuts through the audience chatter.
175: It's a disgrace! Take me home! Vronsky turns round to look. He sees the Husband trying to calm his Wife.
WIFE: Fetch my cloak! Vronsky sees Anna looking straight ahead. Yashvin is eating his moustache.
WIFE: What are we coming to? The Husband has succeeded in putting his wife's cloak over her shoulders. Her exit line is for the benefit of the entire audience.
WIFE (CONT'D): Is this the opera house or a--or a French music hall-- ?! The Wife and her Husband leave the box.
176: Vronsky is tormented. He moves to leave the box.
BETSY: Yes, why don't you? Rescue her and put your seal on the fiasco. Vronsky knows it and is trapped.
BETSY (CONT'D): Alexei . . . you see why she must divorce. Marriage will solve everything. When will it be?
VRONSKY: As far as I'm concerned, she's my wife.
BETSY: But, as you saw, she isn't.
VRONSKY: We're going to Moscow, and then to my place in the country.
BETSY: That sounds like a good idea.
VRONSKY: But for a day or two, Anna will be at home, at my flat. Betsy shrugs.
177: Then, I'll say goodbye now.
ANNA: . . . you had an excellent night! Does your mother want you to marry the widow or the child?
VRONSKY: Either one.
ANNA: Don't make a joke of it. If you loved me, you would have locked me in to stop me going. She throws aside her cloak and goes into the bedroom.
ANNA: Go to bed. Vronsky comes in as Annushka goes out. He comes to Anna and puts his arms round her.
178: Yes, it was my fault.
ANNA: I won't sleep.
VRONSKY: I know how to make you sleep.
LATER--IN BED: Vronsky makes love to Anna but it's not working for her. Her eyes stray around. By the bed is a carafe of water, an empty glass and a pharmacy bottle as dark as ink, with a handwritten label.
179: Anna . . . I am very glad to see you. Are you well? How is your little one? Anna nods, words won't come.
DOLLY (CONT'D): Stiva wanted to invite you and Count Vron- sky to the house but it's impossible . . .
ANNA: I understand.
DOLLY: No, no--you don't. Kitty and her husband are with us. She's in Moscow to have the baby.
ANNA: Kitty . . . ? Oh, tell her how pleased I am . . . !
DOLLY: Perhaps I'll wait a year or two. (she gulps a laugh) Oh . . . love!
ANNA: Yes . . . love! Don't you disapprove of me for what I've done?
DOLLY: No. I wish I'd done the same. But no one asked me! Well . . . I wouldn't have been brave enough. (she blinks tears) Stiva, you know . . . he doesn't change . . . like all men, I suppose.
180: She doesn't notice her tactlessness but it lands on Anna, who manages a smile.
ANNUSHKA: Madame . . . Madame . . . Anna sits up.
ANNUSHKA (CONT'D): Are you ill?
ANNA: What time is it? Is Anya up?
181: It's afternoon, Madame.
ANNA: I'm all right. It's all right.
(PAUSE): Get them to bring up all our trunks and travel cases. We've been here long enough.
ANNA: I had an inspiration. Why do we have to wait here? Why can't we wait in the coun- try? I don't want to hear any more about a divorce, or think about it.
VRONSKY: Good! I'm bored here. When should we go?
ANNA: If I bore you here, I'll bore you in the country.
VRONSKY: I didn't say you bore me. Moscow bores me. When should we go? . . . Tomorrow? But Anna's mood has turned.
182: I can't be ready by tomorrow.
VRONSKY: The day after, then.
ANNA: If you like.
VRONSKY: No, wait. That's Sunday. I have to see Maman.
ANNA: That's twenty minutes away in the train-- you could go to see her tomorrow--or was it that you wanted to spend Sunday with Princess Sorokina?
VRONSKY: Please don't spoil everything. I can't see Maman tomorrow because she won't have read the papers she has to sign. Oh, and then there's the bank . . . But we can leave on Tuesday.
ANNA: In that case, let's not bother. I'll leave on Sunday or not at all.
VRONSKY: That's absurd!
183: It's absurd to you because you have no understanding for my life here.
VRONSKY: Anna . . . Anna . . .
ANNA: You've stopped loving me. You've given up everything for me, and it's turned you against me. Why lie about it?
VRONSKY: Stop. I put off our departure for a day or two, and you tell me I don't love you.
ANNA: Because I've been living off your love and there's none left, so this is over! Finished. She leaves him, slamming the door.
ANNA: I'm sorry. I don't mind when we go.
VRONSKY: I'll telegraph Maman. We'll go on Sunday. I'll do anything you want.
184: You should leave me.
VRONSKY: I don't want to. I love you.
ANNA: Why?
VRONSKY: You can't ask why about love.
VRONSKY: So--will you be all packed? I'll be out today making the arrangements.
ANNA: Is that your way of telling me you'll be at your mother's with that simpering little princess?
185: No. I'll be with my lawyers. I'm waiting for some documents. Then I'm having dinner to say goodbye to old comrades.
ANNA: Well, I know what that means.
VRONSKY: My God, this is unendurable. He controls himself.
VRONSKY (CONT'D): I can invite them here if you like.
ANNA: Thank you, but if I'm not fit to dine in soci- ety, I won't eat with the band. Who was the telegram from? Vronsky retrieves the telegram and hands it to her.
VRONSKY: I didn't show it to you, because Stiva keeps telegraphing what we already know. Kare- nin promises nothing, but will consider . . . Anna tosses the telegram aside unread.
ANNA: I told you I don't care about the divorce, so why hide the telegram? What else do you hide from me?
186: I hide nothing from you.
ANNA: Why do you care about the divorce? What has it got to do with us loving each other?
VRONSKY: Until we're married, our daughter is legally Karenin's. I care about it because we need to be free to marry.
ANNA: You're perfectly free to marry anyone your mother wants.
VRONSKY: But we aren't talking about--
ANNA: Yes, we are, and, by the way, compared to your mother I'm the Virgin Mary. Vronsky is silent with anger. He gets up and goes out, returning with his hat in his hand.
VRONSKY: Is there anything you wish to say to me? She remains silent. He leaves again. She lights a cigarette.
187: The Sorokina Coach draws up outside the door. The coach with its crest and the Coachman's livery (a bright yellow cockade) are highly distinctive.
ANNA'S POV--: Vronsky, hat in hand, at the coach window, accepts a large envelope from a lilac-gloved hand. He bows. With a wave of the hand and a flash of golden hair, the coach pulls away. Vronsky goes back inside.
ANNA: So it's the child.
VRONSKY: She brought papers from Maman. He hesitates, thinking she is about to speak.
VRONSKY (CONT'D): Anna? She stays silent. He leaves.
188: Anna finds Annushka filling several half-filled cases.
ANNA: Unpack everything. We're not going. She lies down on the bed. Annushka would like to comfort her.
ANNUSHKA: Anna Arkadyeva . . .
ANNA: When Count Vronsky comes back, tell him . . . I don't want to be disturbed.
189: Anna finds Annushka waiting.
ANNA: Count Vronsky . . . ?
ANNUSHKA: He went out early, to the stables, he said. Anna collapses on a chair and weeps.
ANNA: Oh, Annushka . . . I should have died. Do you remember?
ANNUSHKA: Don't take it to heart, Anna Arkadyeva . . .
ANNA: I've made him hate me.
190: Tell Michael to hurry. Annushka runs out with the note.
MICHAEL: Count Vronsky had already left, Your Excel- lency. He took a cab to the station . . . to the Countess.
191: Anna's body jerks involuntarily. She half rises. The image, however, is brief and is borne away, as her own train goes by, accelerating. The win- dows opposite pick up speed as she leaves them behind-- And then she has the same illusion again-- a "Vronsky" and a "Sorokina" glimpsed in the other train and snatched away in the instant. Now she stands up and goes to the opposite window, where the windows of the other train are flashing by in the (anachronistic) manner of pro- jected film-frames, and she sees "Vronskys" and "Sorokinas" flashing by at gathering speed. And then the train has gone and there's nothing going by but the view. Anna collapses into the nearest seat.
ANNA: Are you waiting for the Princess Sorokina?
192: No, Your Excellency, both princesses are at the house of Countess Vronsky. I'm waiting
FOR HIM--: Anna turns back, agitated, expecting Vronsky to appear, but what comes is a Footman carrying three hatboxes and a large box from a dress shop. Anna walks away, along the platform, impeded by people going by her, aware that some are staring at her as she passes. A Boy selling drinks grins at her. A little group of Ladies and Children meeting a bespectacled man off the train are laughing and chattering but fall silent and look at her. She increases her pace. She hurries away towards the far end of the platform. Beyond her, a goods train is slowly approaching. Between her and the train, two Maidservants are walking towards her. They turn their heads to look at her, remarking on her dress.
MAIDSERVANT: Look at that lace on her . . . There is a rough bench near the end of the platform. Anna reaches it and sits down. The two girls turn again to look back at her, and are struck by the sight of Anna sitting alone in profile. The goods train reaches her and the first wagon goes past her. The two girls stop and watch, vaguely puzzled by her. As they watch, the beautiful woman on the bench gets up and walks the few steps to the edge of the wooden platform and into the path of the train, disappearing from view between the wheels of one of the wagons.
193: --lying separate against a rail, is clipped by a rolling train-wheel and knocked aside, spilling its contents . . .
LEVIN: I'll be buying in feed before winter's over.
THEODORE: Well, you don't press people hard, but you live rightly, for your soul, not your belly.
LEVIN: My soul! What's that? I know what my belly is. How do we know what's rightly? I believe in reason.
194: Reason? And was it reason that made you chose a wife?
LEVIN: No.
THEODORE: You're a great one for reasoning, Konstantin Dmitrich, but what's rightly is outside your mathematic--that's what's rightly about it! This stops Levin's scythe. He is illumined. Theodore swings the scythe again. Levin walks away, gives his scythe to a Labourer by the cart, and keeps walking. He quickens his pace.
195: The grown-ups are: Levin, Oblonsky, Dolly, the Oblonsky Nurse, Prince and Princess Shcherbatsky. The children are: Tanya, Grisha, Masha, Lili and Vasili. Dolly carries her youngest. The children are eighteen months older than when we first saw them.
PORCH: The heavens open as everyone gets under cover.
LEVIN: Where's Ekaterina Alexandrovna?
AGAFIA: It's all right, the mistress is giving Mitya his bath. It is evident from her tone that Kitty and Agafia have made it up long ago.
196: I came looking for you . . . I understood something . . .
KITTY: And what was that? Kitty lifts Mitya onto a towel on her lap, wraps him and gives him to Levin, who is enchanted by him.
LEVIN: He smiled at me.
KITTY: He's very advanced for his age. She picks up her rings to replace them on her fingers.
KITTY (CONT'D): What did you understand? But the baby starts to yell for the breast. Kitty starts to undo her blouse. Levin shakes his head: he'll tell her some other time, or maybe not.
SPRINGTIME: Baby Anya, old enough to stagger on her feet, wavers through wild flowers half her height. She falls over, almost disappearing. This is being watched, with a mixture more pleasure than pain, by Kar- enin. He is in early retirement, sitting with a book in a garden seat, dressed comfortably under a straw hat. There is the SOUND OVER of people playing croquet. Serozha, aged ten, enters his view, going to Anya to haul her upright, and keeping hold of her hand as she staggers on. Karenin's pleasure increases slightly. OVER this, the growing SOUND of a battlefield.
CLOSE: Vronsky, in an unfamiliar uniform, sabre pointing forward, is mounted at full gallop with the SOUND of the charge all around him in the smoke and noise of guns. Something heavy and invisible with its own SOUND--like the flap of an awning--takes him from his horse into the air and gone, leaving spouts of blood poised for an instant in the smoke.
198: Serozha picks up Anya like a parcel under his arm and walks on with her towards the indistinct figures of Croquet Players strolling in the heat haze, a couple of parasols held aloft.
