SWINGS ROUND: TIGHT CLOSE - SALLY THERRIAN She's in her mid-thirties, with large deep eyes. She watches her husband unguarded in sleep. Her pretty face, alert, she's barely breathing. Traces the just visible lines around his eyes, and mouth. Brushes fingertips against his TIGHT CLOSE - SALLY'S HAND PULLS THE BEDROOM SHADE. It retracts with a loud WHACK, sun, sky, trees.
JOE: Go where?
NEW ANGLE: Joe and Sally have resumed their positions. This wasn't the call they were waiting for.
WIDE SHOT: AMERICA, forty-one, and ROSA, fifty, struggle up the steps of the back porch carrying grocery bags and packages, come through the sliding glass door.
JOE: America, could you just. America closes the sliding doors between the kitchen and the dining room, giving the couple their privacy.
STEVEN: Okay, let's just take a deep breath, let your ribs expand and relax. And reach up and into downward dog. Otis, the Bisenji/Sheperd mix, sleeping on his leopard pillow, stirs, stretches and groans.
SALLY: Hello, hi, hi.and? Thank God. Sally stands with the phone to her ear, her back to Joe.
SALLY: No luck.
JOE: Oh, well, we'll just have to try again. Sound like a plan? Sally nods, she and Joe, at Steven's instructions, come out of their handstands and lie on the floor in a stretched relax, facing one another.
SALLY: Happy anniversary, baby.
JOE: Happy anniversary. They smile.
STEVEN: And change sides. America slides open the dining room doors. The dining table is covered with bundles of freshly cut flowers. Rosa is singing in Spanish.
AMERICA: ( with the authority of long Mr. Joe, we have to have the house. If you please now.
JOE: It's yours. The CAMERA glances off photos of the couple: portraits and candids, their wedding day, with friends, on vacation, tumbling on the lawn, and the like. Some framed and hung, some taped to the fridge or simply leaning on a shelf. It's clear that at least a handful are by the same photographer, black and whites, grainy and There are lots of photos of Joe and his sister Lucy, documenting their relationship from childhood. There's an ANNIE LEIBOWITZ photo-shoot of Sally carelessly displayed INT. BEDROOM - LATER Joe stands behind Sally in front of the full length mirror, his arms around her, stroking her belly.
JOE: I love you. Most beautiful woman in the Accept a compliment.
SALLY: Accept a compliment.
JOE: Accept a compliment.
SALLY: I think you're the most beautiful woman in the world. They move toward the bed.
JOE: What did you get me?
SALLY: In the morning, after everyone's gone and there's just us. She pushes him on the bed.
JOE: Kiss my eyes. She does.
SALLY: My wrists. He does.
JOE: Kiss the back of my knees.
SALLY: Through the sweats or not?
JOE: She pulls down his sweats. She kisses the back of his knees. He turns, stares up at her.
SALLY: You didn't kiss anyone else's knees, did Sally shakes her head.
JOE: You didn't kiss anyone else's knees, did Sally shakes her head.
SALLY: No. Did you?
JOE: ( after a beat ) No. I missed that.
SALLY: I missed all of you. We're okay, aren't We're great.
JOE: We're great.
SALLY: I mean, you're really back.
JOE: For good. They begin to make love.the phone RINGS.
SALLY: Well, it might be Clair. They're threatening not to come.
JOE: They can't find a sitter. Hello? Excuse me? Yes, uh, hold on. Just a moment. It's Skye Davidson. She needs directions to the house. You invited Skye fucking Davidson to our anniversary party?
SALLY: They can't find a sitter. Hello? Excuse me? Yes, uh, hold on. Just a moment. It's Skye Davidson. She needs directions to the house. You invited Skye fucking Davidson to our anniversary party?
JOE: Okay. I'm sorry, look, I meant to tell you. It was the only chance I had to meet her.
SALLY: You invited her to our anniversary party? I didn't even invite my mother.
JOE: She goes on location tomorrow. Sally, I'm sorry. Look, I can't keep her on No, no of course not. It's Skye fucking Davidson, for fuck's sake.
SALLY: ( pissed ) No, no of course not. It's Skye fucking Davidson, for fuck's sake.
JOE: ( regards her ) You want me to uninvite her?
SALLY: No, no of course not. How old is she? She gets out of bed, starts into the bathroom. The CAMERA is with her.
JOE: ( into the receiver ) ( his face lights ) I'm so glad you're able to make it.it's our sixth, actually. ( flattered ) You read the book again? Well, no, the ending to chapter six.it's just that it's not filmic. We tried it in an earlier draft, but, it just wasn't filmic. Well, sure, we can absolutely look at that again. If you're coming from Laurel, you want to take Sunset west, we're just past Will Rogers State Park. Three blocks west of that, you want to hang right. It's about three quarters of a mile up a big white thing on the left. Sally's started the bath, and is watching him from the doorway. He meets her eyes mid-sentence.
SALLY: ( into the bathroom mirror ) I'm going to throw up.
SALLY: ( sanguine ) INT. BEDROOM - LATER The doorbell rings. There are two closed doors on either side of the room. The bed shows no sign of consummated sex. Joe comes through the left hand door, nearly dressed.
JOE: Who the fuck can be here at this time? It's not even seven! Sally comes through the other door, one shoe off, one on.
SALLY: Oh Jesus, who else is always early for Christ's sake?
NEW ANGLE: Sally kisses his cheek on her way to the door.
JOE: I'll say as little as possible. Sally exits the bedroom.
SALLY: I love you.
JUDY: I know we're early, we're so early. You have to sign your taxes anyway.
JERRY: You have to sign your taxes anyway.
SALLY: ( a grin ) Of course we do. ( to Judy ) We have to sign our taxes.
JOE: ( kisses Judy; all charm ) You can never be too early or too thin.
JERRY: Happy anniversary, buddy! Six months ago, who would have thunk it? Jerry hugs Joe.
JOE: ( sotto ) Well, not me, to be honest.
JERRY: ( sotto ) Don't fuck up again. It's got a ripple effect. Sally suffers, we all suffer.
JUDY: ( offers ) We have a gift?
JOE: Thanks, I'll take that. Champagne?
JUDY: Joe moves toward the kitchen.
JERRY: ( a moment, to Sally ) We closed.
SALLY: ( takes his hand ) Out here. They step out onto the porch. Judy's left alone, unsure whether to follow or not.
JUDY: ( finally, to no one, and to no The house looks beautiful, are those She stands awkwardly in the middle of the foyer.
JERRY: Joe officially owns No. 4, Cheyenne Walk, Chelsea, London, England. No small I love you, you're a genius. Behind them, in the foyer, Judy wanders aimlessly.
SALLY: I love you, you're a genius. Behind them, in the foyer, Judy wanders aimlessly.
JERRY: I suppose. Sally, that's quite a gift. I'm not sure it's in your best interest.
SALLY: I adore him.
JERRY: The realtor'll be here tomorrow in the morning. The house had to go on the market to insure the loan on the London I know. I know that. Don't spoil it.
SALLY: I know. I know that. Don't spoil it.
JERRY: What you earn has to double in order to cover expenses in London, it's an outrageously expensive city.
SALLY: We've only been over this how many times?
JERRY: You only made half your quote this year.
SALLY: Well, you're a tower of support.
JERRY: I worry because you don't. It's my job. I'm feeling guilty. I would've liked it if you waited until the two of you were on more solid ground.
SALLY: ( direct, simple ) We couldn't be on more solid ground.
JERRY: Whatever you say. Listen, I love you. Otis is barking.
SALLY: ( touched ) And Joe's huge in Europe. He's like a rock star in London. His novels sell Not millions.
JERRY: Not millions.
SALLY: He's directing now.
JERRY: They're paying him scale. The CAMERA catches sight of Joe behind them. He moves through the foyer and into the living room with a tray of glasses and Judy in tow.
SALLY: He gets huge advances on his novels. He's going back to that. You know how he hates it here.
JERRY: There's still time to undo this.
SALLY: ( kisses his cheek ) We'll be fine.
JERRY: ( re: barking dog ) Did you invite them?
SALLY: The Roses? And of course they said yes.
JERRY: That was the plan. And you're thrilled to have them.
SALLY: Whatever you say.
JERRY: Did you tell Joe to behave?
SALLY: Did he promise?
JERRY: Did he promise?
SALLY: Scout's honor.
JERRY: Before I forget. Put it on the bookshelf. She flips the book on the back is a full page picture of
SALLY: You're out of your mind.
JERRY: Just do what I say, alright?
SALLY: How much bowing and scraping do you want us to do?
JERRY: Beats a lawsuit.
JOE: ( to fill the silence, I love gifts. What did you guys get us?
JUDY: ( chokes on the champagne ) Nothing that can't be exchanged.
JOE: Oh. Well. Good.
JUDY: Congratulations on the deal. How exciting. Is Sally doing Sally? I mean it's Sally. The character that's based on Sally. The character that's based on Sally in the book.
JOE: The novel. No, Skye Davidson is playing the lead.
JUDY: Oh my God, I'm a huge Skye Davidson fan. She's very beautiful.
JOE: Yes, she is.
JUDY: ( trying harder ) But I am right, yes? She's based on It's a novel.
JOE: It's a novel.
JUDY: Still. Well. Let's drop it.
JOE: I'm not much of a reader, but I do love autobiographies, even biographies sometimes. Mostly non-fiction. Did you read the new Styron?
JUDY: I'm not much of a reader, but I do love autobiographies, even biographies sometimes. Mostly non-fiction. Did you read the new Styron?
JOE: It's very good. I understand you won the Booker Prize.
JUDY: It's very good. I understand you won the Booker Prize.
JOE: Yes I did.
JUDY: ( another moment ) Is your script much like the novel? Jerry says it's very good. But you know, you read the novel, and then you see the movie - and most of the time you say, "what's this?" You know? I sometimes think we're better off not reading the novel at all. Because, we come with expectations. and of course, we know where we're going. Don't you find?
JOE: Don't I find what?
JUDY: I don't know why Joe, we've known each other how long.
JOE: Not long.
JUDY: ( benign ) Don't be silly.
JOE: Yes I know. I started to say. I started to say Joe that
JUDY: Yes I know. I started to say. I started to say Joe that
JOE: Do I put you off?
JUDY: You manage to throw me off balance. I adore you.
JOE: And I you.
JUDY: But I'm always afraid I'll say something And so I always manage to, do you see? Like the book/script thing, do you see?
JOE: And so I always manage to, do you see? Like the book/script thing, do you see?
JUDY: And so I always manage to, do you see? Like the book/script thing, do you see?
JOE: Mmm hmmm.
SALLY: You know Jerry.
CAL: Yes, of course.
SOPHIA: I'm the wife. We've met.
JERRY: ( hugs her ) You, I know.
SALLY: ( to Evie ) Hey, beautiful girl. She picks up the four-year-old, swings her around. Jack hides behind his father's legs.
SOPHIA: ( a grin ) Jack? Jack, you promised. The little boy comes out from behind his father's legs, covers his eyes with his hands.
JACK: ( sings ) Happy anniversary to you. We're glad Joe came home. Don't split up again. Cause we like the food. Much laughter and clapping.
JOE: ( in the archway ) Jack. Did you compose that yourself?
CAL: Had a little help?
JOE: Had a little help?
CAL: Absolutely not.
JOE: It has your ring.
CAL: I'm not that good.
JERRY: Cal, my wife Judy.
JUDY: Nice to meet you.
CAL: I think we've met, actually. No? At another one of these things?
JUDY: No, I don't think so.
JERRY: ( to Cal ) Congratulations on the Academy Award. Great performance. Really warranted.
SOPHIA: He thought so.
JERRY: Sally always manages to get robbed.
SALLY: ( a mortified grin ) Enough about me.
SOPHIA: Evie has a little something for you. Evie shakes her head.
EVIE: ( even ) I don't think so.
SALLY: Since when are you so shy?
EVIE: ( her mother's daughter ) ( bright smile ) Honey, we have gifts for you and all sorts of surprises. Where is America? I know she's here somewhere. Joe reaches for the gifts.
SOPHIA: ( bright smile ) Honey, we have gifts for you and all sorts of surprises. Where is America? I know she's here somewhere. Joe reaches for the gifts.
JOE: I'll take them.
SOPHIA: No, I have a little talking to do with America. Privately. I'll find her.
SALLY: ( to Sophia ) In the kitchen.
JOE: Who'd like to go and find Otis?
EVIE: I guess.
JACK: I guess.
JUDY: The infamous dog?
JOE: He's the best dog in the world. They're both coming tonight. Not my It's Jerry's worst idea.
JUDY: It's Jerry's worst idea.
JOE: It's Jerry's worst idea.
CAL: What's that?
JOE: The neighbors from hell. The kind that lay in wait. I'd rather move actually. Wouldn't I? Wouldn't I?
SALLY: ( small smile ) ( to the kids ) Okay. Last one to find Otis is a smelly old bum. Joe goes off with the children to find Otis. Cal sits at the piano, plays.
JOE: ( to the kids ) Okay. Last one to find Otis is a smelly old bum. Joe goes off with the children to find Otis. Cal sits at the piano, plays.
JOE: Well, hello you two. These are the people who live next door. Say hello. Jack does.
JACK: Uh, uh.
JOE: He'll run next door into their backyard and he'll bark and bark and bark and eat their pitbull for his dinner. Is it a No, actually.
RYAN: ( not amused ) No, actually.
JOE: ( to Jack ) Oh whatever. We don't want that to happen, do we?
JACK: It's a rottweiler, actually. I don't think our rottweiler is in any danger, Jack.
RYAN: It's a rottweiler, actually. I don't think our rottweiler is in any danger, Jack.
JOE: Well, Jack and I are very relieved.
RYAN: I thought this was a party. Are we going to talk about the dog thing?
MONICA: Please, Ryan.
JOE: ( kisses her cheek and shakes No, he's absolutely right. You're absolutely right, Ryan. Dog talk must be banned. Canine conversations are completely discouraged. it's really good of you to join us. Can I get you a Not for me, thanks. An awkward moment.
RYAN: Not for me, thanks. An awkward moment.
MONICA: ( checks with Ryan ) Something soft.
JOE: Right away. Are you sure you wouldn't like something soft, Ryan?
RYAN: I'm sure, yes. Sally has watched some of this from the archway, joins them Hi. Monica and Ryan?
SALLY: Hi. Monica and Ryan?
MONICA: Yes. And you've met Joe.
SALLY: Yes. And you've met Joe.
RYAN: ( a deep breath ) Well, so glad you decided to come.
SALLY: ( a deep breath ) Well, so glad you decided to come.
MONICA: We could hardly say no.
SALLY: Joe slips the coke into Monica's hand.
RYAN: At 4:30 today he barked for a solid fifteen minutes. I have it on tape.
SALLY: You're keeping a record, are you?
RYAN: It's just very distracting when you're trying to work.
MONICA: ( to Joe ) I'm sure you understand.
RYAN: ( to Joe ) I'm sure you understand.
SALLY: Well the neighborhood is full of dogs, and it's not always Otis.
RYAN: Well today it was Otis. And you should keep him away from our yard. Because Sheila will defend herself.
MONICA: ( cuts off response from Joe; to Are you working on a new book?
SALLY: ( cuts off response from Joe; to Are you working on a new book?
RYAN: ( caught short; flattered ) Well, yes, actually.
MONICA: He always has two or three going.
SALLY: Really? Joe can't manage more than one at a time. With huge gaps in between.
NEW ANGLE: MAC and CLAIR FORSYTHE wave from the door. Clair's arms are full of presents. Mac carries three video cameras under his arm. He's got Otis by the collar.
MAC: You lose this?
JOE: ( re: Otis ) Ah there's our snookums now.
RYAN: Yes, well, but I haven't won a Booker either. Or the Whitebread.
MAC: The gate was open.
SALLY: Well, not yet. The gate was open?
JOE: It's taken care of.
MONICA: I think Ryan needs a new publisher. I think he's outgrown him. They're just not doing their job. A silence. Awkward smiles go all around.
SALLY: Hors d'oeuvres or something?
MONICA: Yes, great! It's a beautiful house.
SALLY: Thank you. I understand you're an interior decorator.
MONICA: I so wish I'd known.
SALLY: I so wish I'd known.
MONICA: Well, whoever did this is amazing.
SALLY: I did it.
JOE: ( comes on them with the She rarely cops to it. ( kisses Sally's cheek ) Otis is home.
CLAIR: ( re: the gifts ) Where can I put these? Sally takes the gifts from her.
SALLY: Of course.
MAC: She already has.
CLAIR: It's alright, isn't it?
SALLY: Of course it's alright.
MAC: Clair is a hovering mother.
CLAIR: I'm not.
SALLY: This is Monica and Ryan. Mac and Clair. Clair takes a glass of champagne off the tray as they make their way down the hall.
CLAIR: ( a wide professionally So nice.
MONICA: And for us. Truly.
CLAIR: You will never know.
MONICA: You will never know.
CLAIR: ( pleased ) ( to Sally ) I have a four-thirty call. AM. So we may have to leave early.
SALLY: Why didn't you bring him?
CLAIR: Why didn't you bring him?
SALLY: Why didn't you bring him?
CLAIR: ( searches ) He's allergic.
SALLY: To dander. Otis.
CLAIR: To dander. Otis.
SALLY: Didn't I say?
CLAIR: Didn't I say?
SALLY: Well, probably.
CLAIR: They can tell from the eyelashes, you know? He's got eyelashes yay long. They must be a foot long. The older you are when you have a baby, the more likely this stuff is to crop up.
SALLY: ( muted ) The Roses are happy to stand there on the fringe. Next to someone they've only seen on screen and magazine covers. Clair's not in the least put off by them. She manages to smile at them inclusively from time to time.
CLAIR: So they tell me. Not soon enough, of How are you, Sal? You look fantastic. It changes your life, you know. A baby. It puts everything in perspective, doesn't it. Doesn't it, Mac? You can't be the center of your own world, anymore.
MAC: ( as grounded as Clair isn't ) It's an object lesson in grace. ( on seeing Cal Gold on the back Wow! Look who's here before me! My leading man is on time for once.
CAL: ( at the piano ) Those who can't direct.
MAC: Fuck you.
CAL: Are those our dailies? You're totally outrageous. It's their anniversary. Is nothing sacred! Well.so.how am I?
MAC: ( laughing ) Oh man, you are so fucking funny in the kitchen scene.
CAL: I liked the third take, the accidental disaster with the silverware.
MAC: Nothing you do is accidental.
TIGHT CLOSE: Joe sweeps her up to his arms. It's an intimate, appreciative embrace. Theirs was a mid-30s relationship, certainly pre-Sally. Maybe his first important love.
GINA: ( re: the cameras ) I'm the hired help.
JOE: ( affectionate ) Fuck you.
GINA: I never put myself in harm's way.
JOE: No, not anymore. Happy anniversary, NEW ANGLE Sophia bursts from the kitchen.
GINA: No, not anymore. Happy anniversary, NEW ANGLE Sophia bursts from the kitchen.
NEW ANGLE: Sophia bursts from the kitchen.
SOPHIA: Oh my God! America told me your neighbors are coming?
SALLY: And here they are!
SOPHIA: And she was saying how happy you were to finally have them over. Because you're both, so, what - introspective? And you should have done it ages ago. I'm Sophia Come meet my husband, Cal.
MONICA: Cal Gold?
SOPHIA: The very one. And you are.
SALLY: Monica and Ryan.
RYAN: Ryan Rose.
SOPHIA: Ryan Rose.
RYAN: Ryan Rose.
SOPHIA: She shakes his hand. He's amazed at the solid grip.
SALLY: He's a novelist.
SOPHIA: Like Joe.
SALLY: Like Joe.
SOPHIA: ( to Sally ) Where are my kids?
SALLY: In the guest room. I've laid out a paint table for them.
SOPHIA: I hope they're watercolors!
SALLY: ( to Monica ) Would you like to meet my husband? It's all Monica can do to keep from putting her hand to her I'd be thrilled.
SOPHIA: ( to Monica ) Would you like to meet my husband? It's all Monica can do to keep from putting her hand to her I'd be thrilled.
MONICA: I'd be thrilled.
SOPHIA: Then he'll be thrilled. She ushers them toward the living room.
JOE: ( re: Sophia, appreciative ) She's such pure evil. Sally approaches, gives Gina a warm kiss on the chest.
SALLY: Thanks for coming.
GINA: Happy anniversary. You're a good match, you two. Can you help me with this stuff?
JOE: ( re: one of her bags ) That for us?
GINA: What a nose. You missed your calling.
JOE: Can I open it?
GINA: ( defers ) He's impossible. Go on then. Joe rips open the gift. It's a framed black and white of Joe, Sally and Otis lying on the couch. It's clear which photos in the house are Gina's. It's a breathtaking print, an amazing caught moment. All light and shadow. A touching SALLY ( CONT'D ) ( respectful of the talent ) It's beautiful, thank you so much. Joe, moved somehow, hugs Gina to him. Kisses her.
JOE: He's impossible. Go on then. Joe rips open the gift. It's a framed black and white of Joe, Sally and Otis lying on the couch. It's clear which photos in the house are Gina's. It's a breathtaking print, an amazing caught moment. All light and shadow. A touching It's beautiful, thank you so much. Joe, moved somehow, hugs Gina to him. Kisses her.
SALLY: He's impossible. Go on then. Joe rips open the gift. It's a framed black and white of Joe, Sally and Otis lying on the couch. It's clear which photos in the house are Gina's. It's a breathtaking print, an amazing caught moment. All light and shadow. A touching It's beautiful, thank you so much. Joe, moved somehow, hugs Gina to him. Kisses her.
JOE: I love you, Gina Taylor. Sally's uncomfortable, a little jealous. feels intrusive. Aware that Gina got there first. Knew him when. And always captures something naked and vulnerable in his face.
SOPHIA: You look so well, Clair. A wraith.
CLAIR: ( pleased ) You think so!? I've been working out a lot since the baby. And I've been working. And that takes it's toll, you know.
SOPHIA: I'm glad that's all over for me.
CLAIR: Don't you miss it?
SOPHIA: Not for a second. Cal can have all that.
CLAIR: Not for a second. Cal can have all that.
SOPHIA: Not for a second. Cal can have all that.
CLAIR: So where is young Jonah?
SOPHIA: So where is young Jonah?
CLAIR: With a sitter. We have a sensational sitter. Jonah's really comfortable with her. You know, a second mom sort of. Like part of the family. Amazing with She inadvertently touches the beeper on her belt, and it beeps. She jumps.
SOPHIA: What is that thing?
CLAIR: So this sitter can always reach me. I'm still not used to leaving him.
SOPHIA: You should have brought him.
CLAIR: ( shrugs ) Dander. He's allergic. Otis.
SOPHIA: Oh. Do you have any pictures?
CLAIR: Pictures. They're always in my tote. I left my tote in the damn trailer. But! He's Mac all over again. Imagine Mac shrunk to two-and-a-half feet. The fact is they probably didn't even need me for this birth.
SOPHIA: Are you the funniest person I know, or I can't think how you gave it all up, Sophia sends her a soft, content smile. Otis comes over and nuzzles Clair's knee.
CLAIR: I can't think how you gave it all up, Sophia sends her a soft, content smile. Otis comes over and nuzzles Clair's knee.
CLAIR: It sounds hysterical, but Otis just rubbed up against me and I'd kind of like to change into something of yours. You know it could be disaster. He's so allergic. It's terrifying.
SALLY: Borrow whatever you like.
CLAIR: I'll change back before we leave.
SALLY: ( pointed ) Whatever you like. I'm afraid it'll all be too big for you. ( a moment ) Are you alright, Clair?
CLAIR: I'm fine. I'm fine. Well, I'm a little stressed. And I've been taking pills to get my weight down since the baby.
SALLY: I'd say it was down.
CLAIR: And the doctor said they might make me a little jumpy. I've got a ghastly headache, actually.
SALLY: You want a Tylenol, or something?
CLAIR: I'd love a Xanex. Sally, please don't tell Sophia that I'm not breast feeding.
SALLY: Why would she care?
CLAIR: You know Sophia. She's so damned judgemental. And she's so damned. perfect. And so fucking. serene. Just fucking don't tell her. Because you know Mac thinks she's God. And I can feel him You need to knock off the pills, Clair.
SALLY: You need to knock off the pills, Clair.
CLAIR: Just don't fucking tell her.
SALLY: It's not going to come up.
JOE: ( opens the door ) Panes! How are you?
PANES: Oh, you know, I am.
JOE: Has she called?
PANES: She'll never call again. She called last week to tell me she'll never call again. Where's Sally?
PANES: It's a machine gun. I thought I'd kill Are you lovesick?
SALLY: Are you lovesick?
PANES: Suicidal. It's much less codependent.
SALLY: Will champagne help?
PANES: Not enough. Sally takes Panes into the living room where everyone chats, drinks, smokes. They all like each other out of habit, if nothing else. Ryan and Monica are on the fringe, stand at the edges of conversation. There's always someone at the piano, and they can all pretty much play.
SALLY: Panes is here!
PANES: ( gives everyone a shy, pained Oh great. Everyone stops, turns, toasts.
EVERYONE: ( a little late; into silence ) Panes gives them another little wave. Doorbell rings.
SKYE: She's the young, beautiful actress who'll play the lead in Joe's film.
JOE: ( his face lights up ) She's in jeans, but somehow looks dressed to the 9s.
SKYE: You're Joe, aren't you? I recognized you from the book jacket. Joe grins from ear to ear. Uncharacteristically star struck in front of this beauty.
JOE: How do you do, Skye?
SKYE: Oh, I love that. I'm just great. I'm so happy to be here. And I apologize for invading you. And I'm so happy you asked me to. I'm so touched. I know how private you and Sally are.
JOE: ( uncomfortable ) Yeah, well, it's just us and a few hundred of our closest friends.
SKYE: ( genuine ) When I read your work I felt that you knew me. Women must tell you that. And this one in particular speaks to me, do you know? I am Genna. How many women must tell you that. And the script is wonderful. Wonderful and lean and I'm so happy you like it. I'm so relieved you said yes, and I'm really, um, what, thrilled, yes actually, to finally meet you.
JOE: I'm so happy you like it. I'm so relieved you said yes, and I'm really, um, what, thrilled, yes actually, to finally meet you.
SKYE: You're going to be a remarkable director, a brilliant director. There's a long moment.
JOE: ( finally ) I think you're my first Goddess. Sally and Panes have been watching from the living room.
PANES: She's even better looking in the flesh.
SALLY: Really? I need a drink. Come hide with INT. KITCHEN - MOMENTS LATER America and Rosa are working at the counter, Panes and Sally come through.
SALLY: Oh, Jesus, Panes. I can't, I can't believe that bitch is in my house.
PANES: You don't know she's a bitch.
SALLY: She's all over him, are you blind?
PANES: It could be worse.
SALLY: She could be playing the role in Joe's movie that should be yours.
PANES: She could be playing the role in Joe's movie that should be yours.
SALLY: Fuck you, Panes.
PANES: You see, that's worse.
SALLY: I just wanted tonight to be with the people we love.
PANES: Like your business managers?
SALLY: They're not just our business managers, Oh, okay, forgive me. Your neighbors are here, for fuck's sake.
PANES: Oh, okay, forgive me. Your neighbors are here, for fuck's sake.
SALLY: Exactly what I mean. It's all ruined.
PANES: It's not ruined, for fuck's sake. It's one of your parties.
SALLY: I don't want it to be just one of our "How are you really doing, Panes?" "Lousy, thank you, I'm falling apart."
PANES: "How are you really doing, Panes?" "Lousy, thank you, I'm falling apart."
SALLY: Like the last time.
PANES: No. No, not like the last time. She was the rest of my life.
SALLY: Like the last time.
PANES: I wasn't finished.
SALLY: "We can't stand seeing you like this, Panes. I hate you being alone. Why don't you stay with us for a while?" "I'd love to, thanks."
PANES: "We can't stand seeing you like this, Panes. I hate you being alone. Why don't you stay with us for a while?" "I'd love to, thanks."
SALLY: It's our anniversary, Panes.
PANES: I didn't hear me say tonight.
SALLY: We're just feeling our way back.
PANES: "Otherwise, we'd insist on your being You know it's true. Skye bursts into the kitchen, Sally and Panes freeze.
SALLY: You know it's true. Skye bursts into the kitchen, Sally and Panes freeze.
SKYE: ( stuck ) Oh my God, sorry. I'm interrupting.
SALLY: I'll be right out.
PANES: ( over Sally ) Come on in.
SKYE: I'm in the same room with Sally Nash. Oh my God. You're my icon. I've been watching your films since I was a little girl. Like, four years ago I followed you all around the Beverly Center - at least half a day, working up the courage to introduce myself. Joe enters the kitchen, watches.
SALLY: I don't think I ever spent half a day in the Beverly Center.
SKYE: Whatever, do you remember? I've seen all your movies. When I was in rehab, the second time, they wouldn't even let us see your drug addict movie. They said you were too real. I worship you. And I couldn't be more flattered, because I know the part I'm playing in Joe's movie is based on you as a young woman. Joe winces, uncomfortable, picks up the bottle of wine and And I'm overwhelmed. And I want to do it justice. And I hope we can spend time together. And I'm gushing. It's my worst quality.
PANES: Not at all.
SKYE: Oh my god. I've been so rude. I'm Skye Davidson. Has anyone ever told you, you look like Peter Sellers?
PANES: No, never.
SALLY: ( overlapping Panes ) I'm Levi Panes. Will you excuse us, Skye? It's time for Sally's meds. Panes steers Sally out of the kitchen.
PANES: I'm Levi Panes. Will you excuse us, Skye? It's time for Sally's meds. Panes steers Sally out of the kitchen.
SALLY: It's nice to meet you. again. They go. Skye is left in the kitchen alone.
SKYE: ( to America ) Oh my God, she remembers me!
SALLY: ( under her breath ) Thank you, thank you, thank you.
CLAIR: ( on the way down; a dream in My God, your wardrobe is incredible. It took me forever to decide. Oh, and I found Dr. X, thank you. You saved my She moves past them.
SALLY: ( a moment; sotto ) ( re: the dress ) I'd cut off her red wine if I were you.
PANES: ( re: the dress ) I'd cut off her red wine if I were you.
SALLY: Shit. It's my Galiano.
PANES: What does that mean?
SALLY: About five thousand dollars. With my The CAMERA follows them into the bedroom. They flop down onto the bed and into FRAME.
GINA: ( regards him ) Directing suits you.
JOE: I'm not so sure. Look again in three It must be nice having so many strangers kiss your ass all of a sudden.
GINA: It must be nice having so many strangers kiss your ass all of a sudden.
JOE: Ow! Gina, you obviously need to get Just did. Jealous?
GINA: Just did. Jealous?
JOE: When does he graduate high school?
GINA: ( laughing ) Oh, very jealous. Joe laughs.
JOE: Shit, I forgot to call her back. She's off on a trip somewhere. Oh God, my grandad's flat in London's been sold.
GINA: In Cheyene Walk? Lucy's going to have a meltdown. Oh, I'm so sorry.
JOE: I should have damn well bought it. Well, we can't afford it. The movie's going to eat up a year of my life and I'm getting paid next to nothing. Do you know how much Skye Davidson's getting? Four Yeah, but I hear she gives a mean blow You really need to be fucked.
GINA: Yeah, but I hear she gives a mean blow You really need to be fucked.
JOE: You really need to be fucked.
SALLY: So how are you really doing, Panes?
PANES: Why don't you go fuck yourself?
SALLY: ( laughs ) No. Really. For real. Really.
PANES: I'm worried about your Galiano.
SALLY: ( slaps him ) You're a shit.
PANES: No, really, five thousand with your He rolls out from under her swat, she misses him.
SALLY: Yes. Fine.
PANES: That's it? Yes. Fine?
SALLY: I don't want to talk about it.
PANES: Why not?
SALLY: I never like to talk about my work.
PANES: Alright. Well, that's something new.
SALLY: No. Not something new.
PANES: Well, something's wrong.
SALLY: Nothing's wrong. It's great, okay? Having the time of my life. Mac's a fantastic director. And what can anyone say about Cal that hasn't been said. And it's great working with friends, blah blah blah.
PANES: ( a moment; little smile ) Um. Happy for you.
SALLY: So tell me, how's it going?
PANES: So tell me, how's it going?
SALLY: Oh you know. No doubts. No second thoughts. Am I a monster?
PANES: You're my best friend.
SALLY: That's not an answer, is it?
PANES: Yes, you're a monster. She takes his hand. Sounds of the party come from below.
SALLY: ( a moment ) Thank you, Panes.
PANES: You don't need to thank me.
SALLY: ( another moment ) We're going to have to go back out there.
PANES: I guess. But neither of them moves.
MEDIUM CLOSE: Monica alone, uneasy, starts to pour herself a glass of champagne. Jeffrey gets to the bottle first.
JEFFREY: Let me. I'm Jeffrey.
MONICA: And you know our friends, how?
JEFFREY: And you know our friends, how?
MONICA: We live next door.
JEFFREY: Oh. You're them.
MONICA: Excuse me?
JEFFREY: We've heard lots about you.
MONICA: ( lost ) You have?
JUDY: ( smiles over at Ryan ) Hi. A little close in there.
RYAN: Hi. A little close in there.
JUDY: INT. MUSIC LIBRARY - CONTINUOUS A small, narrow room. Not much more than an alcove. With space for a desk, stereo equipment, and shelves packed with CDs. The topmost shelf is a line of record albums. Joe's picking through the CDs. Monica wanders in from the living room, toting a glass of champagne. watches him for a
MONICA: Your Eames table is incredible. And the B&B. I just put that in a client's home, actually, but in red.
JOE: You're an interior decorator, right?
MONICA: ( nods ) Sally did all this herself?
JOE: In fits and starts and then, later, of course, she had to accommodate me. So things shifted a little bit then, became more eclectic. And it keeps changing.
MONICA: ( somehow at a loss ) Mmm. It says something about the two of you maybe.
JOE: Yeah, we're in a constant state of flux. I see you've moved up from the soft Oh, yes. You know Ryan's been sober eight years. And it's difficult if I. you know. It's better if I don't.
MONICA: Oh, yes. You know Ryan's been sober eight years. And it's difficult if I. you know. It's better if I don't.
JOE: I'm a little nervous, so.
MONICA: I'm a little nervous, so.
JOE: A little out of my element.
MONICA: A little out of my element.
JOE: No you're not.
MONICA: Well, yes. Yes, in fact. A little on the outside, yes. And there's been all this friction.
JOE: I don't know why, but these misunderstandings have a way of Very well put.
MONICA: I don't know why, but these misunderstandings have a way of Very well put.
JOE: Very well put.
MONICA: I think a lot of this could have been avoided if Sally made more of an effort.
JOE: But you're very private people. You know, there's a kind of elitism.
MONICA: But you're very private people. You know, there's a kind of elitism.
JOE: ( pissed ) The wrong word, maybe. Delete that. And, you know, the dog barks incessantly.
MONICA: The wrong word, maybe. Delete that. And, you know, the dog barks incessantly.
JOE: And you know, he really does not.
MONICA: And Ryan works at home.
JOE: And your phone calls are nasty and abusive. And I've come this close to suing you for harassment. And you're only here because we're supposed to be sucking up to you. Her eyes well with tears.
MONICA: Well, that's what Ryan thought. I was more generous, actually.
JOE: Oh shit. I'm sorry. I'm a total fucking maniac. Delete all that, okay? I spoke for myself, this needn't rub off on my wife. Oh shit. I get pissy sometimes. Much worse than Otis. Otis doesn't bite. It's just, I really love my dog and he doesn't really bark a lot. We live in a canyon. We hear dogs barking at night, too. And it's not Monica starts to laugh.
MONICA: It appears she's consumed more than one glass of champagne.
JOE: Easy tiger.
MONICA: Alright. Please don't tell Ryan I'm Scout's honor.
JOE: Scout's honor.
MONICA: ( grins ) I'll be your best friend. She feels they've bonded. She pulls a well-thumbed copy of Joe's novel from her purse.
JOE: We're way past inappropriate. Monica giggles, presses back the bubble rising in her chest and moving toward her throat. Manages not to burp.
MONICA: ( as he signs it ) I'll treasure this. He moves towards the doorway, Monica at his heals.
JOE: I need to leave you now.
MONICA: I will treasure this.
JOE: ( shouting down the hall ) INT. DAILIES ROOM - LATER - DAY Sally's team prepares clues for charades. Sally writes them down, throws them in a bowler hat. Her teammates are Panes, Sophia, Mac, Ryan, Sanford and Jeffrey.
SALLY: From Jewish Folk Poetry, a song cycle.
PANES: From Jewish Folk Poetry, a song cycle.
MAC: Trust him.
SALLY: Trust him.
PANES: It's Shostakovich. Ryan spots his book on the shelf and pulls it out, delighted.
SALLY: The Wind Up Bird Chronicle.
SANFORD: The Wind Up Bird Chronicle.
SALLY: ( turns to him ) ( pleased ) I didn't know you had this.
RYAN: ( pleased ) I didn't know you had this.
SALLY: Oh. Well, yes. It's extraordinary. You think you could sign it for us?
RYAN: Absolutely. You always wonder where your books end up. Why don't we use it?
JUDY: Good idea.
RYAN: There's not a chance in hell anyone will get it.
MAC: Down by Law.
SOPHIA: Who's not going to get that in fifteen INT. LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS Joe's team works on it's clues. Teammates: Gina, Cal, Clair, Skye, Monica, Jerry and Mary-Lynn. Everyone is talking over each other and fighting for attention. There are a lot of strong personalities here.
JOE: Can we. one at a time? Hold it down, and one at a time. You're last, Cal.
CAL: Why last?
MONICA: The Katzenjammer Kids. There's a hush.
JOE: Alright. Good. Fine, I vote for that. He writes it down.
MONICA: With a "Z." K. A. T. Z.
GINA: When the Pawn Hits the Conflicts He Thinks Like a King What He Knows. People hoot, throw their cocktail napkins.
SKYE: Utopia Parkway. They all start talking on top of each other again.
JOE: Who's keeping time? Mac raises his hand on Sally's side, Jerry on Joe's.
SALLY: ( deferring first turn to Joe ) It's alright. Be our guests. She offers the hat.
JOE: ( offers the hat ) You darling. Panes reaches into the hat.
PANES: ( reads clue; to Joe ) What is it? Joe whispers to him.
JOE: Come on, Panes.
JERRY: Panes mimes a belly laugh.
JEFFREY: What the hell is that?
SALLY: What is it Panes? Panes sighs.
SOPHIA: Two words. He belly laughs.
JUDY: A finger to his nose - elongate the word.
SANFORD: Panes does an "ON THE NOSE." Gets on all fours. Licks his The team applauds delight. Panes preens. Joe's team looks over at Monica.
RYAN: The Katzenjammer Kids. The team applauds delight. Panes preens. Joe's team looks over at Monica.
JERRY: ( already pissed ) It's only just started. Great. The husband's on the other fucking team. Jerry reaches into the hat. Looks at the clue.
MAC: Hey! Would you?
JERRY: Hey! Would you?
MAC: It was fifteen seconds.
JERRY: I don't think so.
MAC: Are you always this much fun?
SALLY: ( a grin ) Take your time, Jer.
JERRY: I'm ready. He gives the clue "a song."
CAL: He gives "cycle."
GINA: Two words. Second word. Jerry goes to work on "sounds like" for the word Jewish. Strokes beard, thinks, tries "sounds like" again.
CAL: Two words. Second word. Jerry goes to work on "sounds like" for the word Jewish. Strokes beard, thinks, tries "sounds like" again.
TEAM: Think. Pain.
CAL: ( among others ) Come on, folks.
JERRY: Come on, folks.
CAL: First word. Jerry does the sign for the "short word."
TEAM: To, the, but, or. Jerry shakes his head. Goes to the third word.
MAC: Thirty seconds. Jerry turns, gives them a dirty look.
JOE: Jer. Over here. Over here.
TEAM: Second word. He strokes his beard again.
SKYE: ( blurts out ) From Jewish Folk Poetry. Jerry looks at her, amazed. She stands, throws hands up in triumph, does a little victory circle. The CAMERA CUTS through the rest of the game, aggressive, competitive, verging on hostile. Sally is often aching from laughter, tears streaming down her face.
JERRY: Time. Hey! Time. Judy! Time you guys. Ya Vhol. What are you, a fucking Nazi?
JUDY: ( she's up; turns to him, zeig Ya Vhol. What are you, a fucking Nazi?
JERRY: Well it's fucking time.
CLOSE SHOT: JERRY ( CONT'D ) ( shouting guesses ) Walk. Cripple. Limp. Ankle. Second syllable. Second syllable. Move on to the fucking second syllable. Gina giving clues starts to laugh.
MAC: TIME CUT TO: Jeffrey's on his feet, giving the clue.
SALLY'S TEAM: ( unison ) Quote. Play.
SOPHIA: Oh shit. It's one of Cal's. Obscure Shakespeare, folks. Cal gives her a little wave from the other side.
SALLY'S TEAM: ( in unison ) Ten.twenty.thirty.seven, eight. Thirty-eighth word.thirty-seventh word. Gina's been taking shots through the course of the game, and the FRAME will freeze black and white on one of another delicious moment. There's a spectacular shot of Sally, unaware, laughing, sad soft eyes on Joe.
SALLY: ( to Joe's look; innocence ) I didn't say a word.
MAC: What was it? What the fuck was it?
JERRY: What was it? What the fuck was it?
SALLY: ( small grin ) Ryan's novel.
JERRY: Ryan's novel?
JUDY: Ryan's novel, Jerry.
AMERICA: ( sings out ) Still champions.
SALLY: Still champions.
JOE: Panes is not on your team anymore.
PANES: What did I do?
SALLY: Panes is not on my team anymore. I'll have Panes if I like.
AMERICA: It's an unfair advantage.
SALLY: It's an unfair advantage.
JOE: It's an unfair advantage.
SALLY: You've got Cal. You've got Gina. You've got Skye? We're the leftovers.
JOE: Okay, knock it off.
SALLY: ( on the move ) Don't be angry.
JOE: ( on the move ) Don't be angry.
SALLY: ( on the move ) Don't be angry.
JOE: ( pissed ) I'm not fucking angry, for God's sake.
ASTRID: ( barely looks up as Sally comes So who won?
SALLY: ( raises her hand ) A triumph. When did you get here?
ASTRID: Ten, fifteen minutes ago.
SALLY: Why didn't you come in?
ASTRID: I hate the sight of blood. You guys don't take prisoners.
SKYE: ( charmed by the bundle in Oh how sweet. The furball bares teeth and growls.
ASTRID: She's insanely jealous.
CLAIR: That's revolting, Astrid. People sit in small groups, eating dinner, catching up. Latecomers, bunch around Joe. Sam Feckman, an actor also in Mac's film, holds forth. Panes finds room next to Skye.
PANES: Is there space here?
SKYE: Do you need anything else?
PANES: Do you need anything else?
SKYE: No, no thanks. He sits on the floor along side her. They eat in silence for a moment.
PANES: ( finally ) I was impressed.
SKYE: The charades.
PANES: The charades.
SKYE: Thank you.
PANES: That was my clue.
SKYE: The Shostakovich.
PANES: The Shostakovich.
SKYE: ( does Seller's Indian ) Oh yes, indeed. That was my clue, you Skye giggles appreciative response.
PANES: ( does Seller's Indian ) Oh yes, indeed. That was my clue, you Skye giggles appreciative response.
JOE: I hate the idea of some one else living in it. Joe pulls Sally to him and wraps his arms around her.
JOE: The dumb waiter was our.
GINA: Escape hatch.
JOE: ( eyes her ) Escape hatch. And Dad was having a go about the garden. Something was Not properly watered.
SALLY: Not properly watered.
JOE: ( to Gina ) You know how he gets. Well, he went absolutely bonkers. Lucy and I were frantically trying to scramble into the dumb waiter and I didn't fit any more. It was almost fatal. And that, my dear friends, is the day.
GINA: You're not a man, Joe. You're a boy.
JOE: ( childishly ) ( laughs ) I love you, Joe Therrian.
GINA: ( laughs ) I love you, Joe Therrian.
SALLY: ( at a loss, small ) Me too. Sophia watches from across the living room.
NEW ANGLE: INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT Astrid squeezes in next to Sally, on her second portion of everything. She allows Anouk to nibble from her plate.
ASTRID: You're not upset that I brought the dog?
SALLY: Would it make a difference?
ASTRID: Anouk isn't like a dog, really. More like a small person. So is there anyone here for me? No one looks new. Who's that?
SALLY: You don't want that. It's married and it's the neighbor.
ASTRID: Oh I think he's cute. How's the marriage part working out?
SALLY: You're fucking desperate.
ASTRID: Like you didn't know. Who invited the bimbo?
SALLY: One guess.
SOPHIA: ( re: the cake as it comes in ) Part of our gift. Honey!!
CAL: ( clinks his glass ) Here, here. Clair picks up discarded dinner plates. Otis takes care of those behind couches, under tables. The gifts are stacked high, near the fireplace. Sally is on the floor, nestled between Joe's knees, leaning back against him. His arms are wrapped around her, face pressed against There's a SERIES OF CUTS through speeches, gifts, entertainment. Sophia and Cal do a well rehearsed, very funny, impromptu something with their kids. Panes and Mac do an interpretive dance symbolizing the Cal and Sophia carry sleeping children down the hall. There are speeches about Sally and Joe, outrageously dirty, funny, sometimes touching - that cover their recent separation, the custody of Otis, their trying to have a Panes plays a piece on the violin. Someone else sings. And MEDIUM CLOSE - SKYE She looks out at the guests.
NEW ANGLE: They look back at her.
SKYE: I wasn't prepared to say anything. I'm honored to be a part of tonight. To be in the same room, with my favorite living The CAMERA barely catches the grimace on Mac's face; Clair elbows him.
SAM: ( sings out ) Still living.
SKYE: And my favorite novelist. And all their And talented.
SAM: ( sings out ) And talented.
SKYE: Friends. And talented friends. This room is so filled with love..
ASTRID: ( sings out ) And the winner is.
PANES: Let the woman speak.
SKYE: And I brought a gift of love. A gift that is love. She pulls an envelope from behind her back, which she's decorated in flower-child fashion; it harkens back to the sixties, puts it into Sally's hand, kisses her cheek.
SALLY: ( pours the pills into her hand ) What are they?
JOE: ( pleased, surprised ) Dolphins. Great.
SALLY: It's ecstasy, Sal.
SKYE: I think there are sixteen there.
JOE: ( kisses Skye ) This is an amazing present. What a sweetheart you are. Skye's pleased she's made him happy.
SALLY: ( regards Joe; to Skye ) What a sweetheart you are. A pall descends on the party. There's a FULL SHOT of the group. Nobody quite knows what to do. There's torn wrapping paper all over the room.
ASTRID: ( Anouk still in her lap ) It's late. ( kisses Anouk ) You sleepy baby? There are awkward excuses. Some of the guests leave.
JOE: I think we should all take it tonight. Everyone's staying, stays. No driving. That's the rule. I love you Sally-Mae. You're going to have a fabulous time.
SALLY: I'm worried about my spine. I'm very worried about my brain and my spine.
SOPHIA: ( laughs ) Oh honey, you're gonna love it.
JOE: ( to her Look ) Sophia's going to do it, Panes is going to do it, trust me.
CAL: ( on seeing America, bursts America, America God shed his light on He dances her around the kitchen, he picks up the sterling dish, arranges the pills, carries them back to the living INT. LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS Ecstasy is passed from guest to guest. Ryan expects Monica to abstain.
MONICA: ( his glare; simply ) I want to try it, Ryan.
MONICA: I love it here. Don't you love it here, Ryan? I love it here. And I love tonight. And I love these people. And this feels utterly fantastic, Ryan. Utterly fantastic.
RYAN: You know what Sally Therrian was saying about your spine and your brain? She didn't pull that out of thin air. It causes brain damage. You'd better drink a lot of water.
MONICA: Do you want to go home, Ryan?
RYAN: I think you should then. You should look in on Sheila.
MONICA: I think you should then. You should look in on Sheila.
RYAN: I'm not going to leave you alone.
MONICA: They're really nice people, Ryan. They're like us.
RYAN: They're nothing like us.
MONICA: I think you need to speak for yourself, Ryan. But I think you're really nice She puts arms around him, kisses his cheek. He stiffens.
RYAN: Are you making an ass of yourself?
MONICA: There's only you, Ryan. You know what, Ryan? You're beautiful. I love you so much. You need.
RYAN: I don't need a drug.
MONICA: You need a good review and you'll be fine. The whole color of the world will change, mark my words. She gets up.
RYAN: Ready to go?
MONICA: I'm going to go get my swimsuit. I do know, Ryan, this is non addictive so you mustn't worry. Ryan, you're a great man. The CAMERA follows Monica along the side of the pool. She passes Sophia and a very exuberant Clair. The CAMERA stays at the pool. Clair tears off Sally's Galiano, flings it to the ground and dives topless into the This water is great!
CLAIR: This water is great!
JERRY: ( swimming past her ) Wanna dive for a baton?
JUDY: Okay, I'm about to throw five colored batons in the water. Then I'm going to count to three, and then you may start diving. I'm playing too. The red one is ten extra points. Ready? One, two, three, go!! There is a melee of diving and screaming.
MAC: You got your DP?
JOE: What? Oh yeah, the camera man? They gave me a list.
MAC: And you got Skye Davidson. Pretty big leagues for a first timer. Do you even like movies?
JOE: Not particularly. Weird, isn't it? God I'm rally up. Do you feel anything yet, Kind of. Hey, look - John Seale, Oliver Stapelton, Darius Khonji - they're friends. And great DP's I could give them a call for you.
MAC: Kind of. Hey, look - John Seale, Oliver Stapelton, Darius Khonji - they're friends. And great DP's I could give them a call for you.
JOE: Thanks, Mac. And thanks for being so supportive about all this. I really love you, you know.
MAC: Hey, I'm happy for you, buddy. Anything I can do.
JOE: ( lets go of Mac ) God, I really need to jump about a bit. ( begins jumping ) How's your film going?
CAL: It's going. It's going.
JOE: And how's the diva doing?
MAC: Well, you know.good days, bad days.
JOE: I meant Sally.
MAC: I meant Sally.
JOE: ( stops jumping, studies him ) Oh. You're serious.
MAC: ( throws and arm around him ) No. No. ( a beat ) Let me tell you something. Directing's the best preparation possible for fatherhood. The sleep depravation alone.
JOE: Oh don't. Everyone says that.
SALLY: ( re: the photograph ) Isn't this a fabulous picture?
SOPHIA: She's such a great photographer.
SALLY: She's such a great photographer.
SOPHIA: So where should I put it?
SALLY: So where should I put it?
SOPHIA: I thought it was okay where it was.
SALLY: It's much more personal in here.
SOPHIA: A notch above the storage room.
SALLY: We're always in here. She really gets him, doesn't she?
SOPHIA: The both of you.
SALLY: But she really gets to the heart of Joe, doesn't she? She's a genius.
SOPHIA: So how much do you hate her?
SALLY: Big time. They both laugh, then.
SOPHIA: Well, I don't trust her. I never have.
SALLY: She took our wedding photos, for chrissakes. You don't trust anyone.
SOPHIA: ( a moment simply ) I trust you.
SALLY: Oh Soph.
SOPHIA: You'll hate it in London. It's wet and miserable. A medical hellhole Sally. It's socialized. Beds in the corridors. Terrible plumbing.
SALLY: And the food sucks, I know.
SOPHIA: You are not having your baby in London. You're going to have your baby at Cedars in Beverly Hills, America, delivered by Dr. Milton Cohen. Period. And you're getting that epidural right away, don't let anyone talk you into any of that Lamase bullshit. There's no excuse for pain like that.
SALLY: Sophia! I'm not even pregnant!
SOPHIA: Well good. Thank God.
SALLY: Let's go in the kitchen and spy on Oh honey, let's. They've started to walk through the house.
SOPHIA: Oh honey, let's. They've started to walk through the house.
SALLY: ( stops short; turns to her ) What do you mean, thank God?
SOPHIA: Well, are you sure about this baby thing? It's not the ticking clock shit, is it?
SALLY: No, no, not at all. I mean I've still got plenty of time. Don't I? I mean I still have a good six years, whatever. We could have three kids yet, if we wanted. And I know I've always said I never wanted kids, and I didn't. but this year, I really, truly, feel ready.
SOPHIA: Honey, I'm not worried about you. You are going to be a fantastic mom. Not an issue. I pressed you, remember? Joe, on the other hand, is a different story.
SALLY: ( laughs ) Oh Soph, Joe loves kids. Joe wants kids. Joe thinks he needs kids.
SOPHIA: He wants playmates. Oh he's a sweetheart, Sal, you know I love him. But he's not going to be a good father. He's just not parenting material.
SALLY: Hey, let's sit down. I bet the rug feels really nice against your skin. Sally drops out of frame.
SOPHIA: Don't try and change the subject. Oh God, it feels great! He's just a little narcissistic, irresponsible and And Cal's this massive adult?
SALLY: And Cal's this massive adult?
SOPHIA: Cal knows who he is. Did you notice how happy Joe was when the drugs came out You weren't exactly horrified.
SALLY: You weren't exactly horrified.
SOPHIA: ( laughing ) I don't have a drug problem.
SALLY: Neither does Joe.
SOPHIA: His sister does. Big time. And the New York Times says addiction is genetic I'll e-mail you the article. Sally stares at her friend suddenly mute, eyes wide.
SALLY: ( getting up ) We're fine. We're great. We're having a baby and we're moving to London.
SOPHIA: ( following her ) Well, you weren't fine last summer when you went Sylvia Plath on me in Not nice. Not kind.
SALLY: Not nice. Not kind.
SOPHIA: Ha! Not half so not kind as your husband was in his portrayal of you in his novel.
SALLY: Why are you doing this?
SOPHIA: His image of you is a possessive, fragile But I am a possessive, fragile neurotic.
SALLY: ( tearing up ) But I am a possessive, fragile neurotic.
SOPHIA: ( also tearing up ) No you are not. You're Sally Nash. Listen to me, you're Sally Nash. You're my best friend and I love you more than anyone, and you're not going to move to London to have the offspring of a sexually ambivalent man-child. "Oh now I'm a novelist, oh now I'm a director." English prick bastard Joe Therrian who's probably going to leave you for Skye Davidson anyway. They hug a bit weepy.
JOE: Isn't Skye amazing?
CAL: She's got great tits.
JOE: She's a constant surprise.
CAL: And you've only just met.
JOE: Yeah, I know. But she's only twenty seven and. The wisdom. She's an old soul. She knew that Shostakovich thing. Did you notice?
CAL: Absolutely. And she's got great tits.
JOE: Yeah, God she really does have great tits, great tits. i can't wait to work with her.
CAL: The camera loves her. A great actress.
JOE: With great tits. I'm going to ask her if I can touch them. He gets up to go towards Skye, is stopped by.
CLAIR: Has anyone seen Mac?
JOE: ( pointing further up the I saw him wandering over there, I think. How're you feeling, Clair?
CLAIR: I'm so good. She kisses Joe and Cal, and goes off to find her husband.
CAL: Poor Mac. It's been a bit of a struggle. I'm sure Sally's told you.
JOE: No, what?
CAL: The movie.
JOE: Oh, she's really enjoying it. I think. Is Mac okay?
CAL: I don't know what's going on. I don't care to guess. Mac's really unhappy. She isn't there, that's all. She's no idea what she's playing, not a clue.
JOE: Who, Sally?
CAL: And, you know it isn't rocket science, this script. She can barely get the lines out. There was a scene last week - she sobbed, through every take. I know crying's easy for her but it's a fucking comedy, Joe. Something's gone. You know, that thing that was Sally - that always surprised you. It's gone. I think she's scared. And that's death.
JOE: I still think she sails above the rest. I mean not like her early films. But those were all such great directors.
CAL: Mac's a pretty great director, Joe. He's a woman's director. And nothing's happening. Course he won't fire her, because of the friendship. But it was discussed. He had to battle his studio to get her in the first place.
JOE: Hey, listen, I love her. She's Sophia's best friend. I never said any of this, alright. I'll deny it on the stand. You guys are gonna have kids. That is so great. Maybe that's what this is all about. Maybe she doesn't want to do this anymore. You know adults don't do this for a living. You guys are gonna have your kids, you'll be directing one asshole in the family is enough. Sophia knew that intuitively. Look at Clair. Clair's a mess. Make sure she gets the epidural. Forget that natural childbirth shit. Everything's going to be what it's supposed to be. "Life is but a walking shadow. A poor player who struts and frets his hour upon the stage and then is heard no more." And speaking of me, the role of Leo in your film?
CAL: Hey, listen, I love her. She's Sophia's best friend. I never said any of this, alright. I'll deny it on the stand. You guys are gonna have kids. That is so great. Maybe that's what this is all about. Maybe she doesn't want to do this anymore. You know adults don't do this for a living. You guys are gonna have your kids, you'll be directing one asshole in the family is enough. Sophia knew that intuitively. Look at Clair. Clair's a mess. Make sure she gets the epidural. Forget that natural childbirth shit. Everything's going to be what it's supposed to be. "Life is but a walking shadow. A poor player who struts and frets his hour upon the stage and then is heard no more." And speaking of me, the role of Leo in your film?
JOE: ( stares at him ) Any thoughts on casting yet?
CAL: Any thoughts on casting yet?
JOE: ( regards him ) Leo? It was out to Jude Law. Jude Well, I can't make any promises, and of course I haven't read the script but I loved the novel.when are you shooting?
CAL: Well, I can't make any promises, and of course I haven't read the script but I loved the novel.when are you shooting?
JOE: I have a small window of time.
CAL: I have a small window of time.
JOE: Leo. Leo's twenty-eight, Cal.
CAL: Scratch the two, write in a four.
JOE: Scratch the two, write in a four.
CAL: You've got a lot of fucking gall. Thirty Five years ago, I was at the party, Joe looks up and sees Sally standing in the sun room. He blows her a kiss. She kisses her finger tips and puts her hand flat against the window pane.
JOE: Five years ago, I was at the party, Joe looks up and sees Sally standing in the sun room. He blows her a kiss. She kisses her finger tips and puts her hand flat against the window pane.
MAC: ( moans ) No, it's not. Fuck fuck fuck fuck.
SALLY: ( a deep breath ) INT. HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS Clair's started down the hallway, reaches the landing. Sally rushes into the guest bedroom to avoid her. Clair, just missing Sally, wanders into the dailies room.
CLAIR: Mac? Oh there you are. What are you doing, honey? No more work. Don't you feel breezy.
MAC: I'm in mourning.
CLAIR: You can cut around it, whatever it is. You always do.
MAC: Not this time.
CLAIR: It's always not this time. If you can do it around me, you can do it around She walks in front of the television set, blocks it with her body, switches it off.
MAC: ( an observation ) You don't have any clothes on.
CLAIR: How nice for everybody. Come swimming. The water's glorious. You'll fix it. You'll come up with one of your brilliant ideas.
MAC: Or I won't. I can't help her. I'm out of my depth.
CLAIR: Things always look much worse in the I don't know how to make her funny.
MAC: I don't know how to make her funny.
CLAIR: You're coming swimming in the pool, and in a few minutes you won't even remember what it's about. You won't care who's in your damn movie.
MAC: ( really stoned ) What what's about?
CLAIR: I.wait, what are you talking about?
MEDIUM CLOSE: Jack and Evie are asleep across the bed.
NEW ANGLE: Sally sits at the edge of the bed, regards the sleeping children. Reaches over and smoothens the tangled, tousled hair. Studies their faces.
JOE: Are you okay?
MONICA: I don't think so. I feel. I feel a bit Let's go for a walk. He puts his arm around her and leads her away from the pool.
JOE: Let's go for a walk. He puts his arm around her and leads her away from the pool.
MONICA: I've never done this before.
JOE: Oh? It's easy. You just put one foot in front of the other. That's a good girl.
MONICA: I'm a little in the puke zone.
JOE: ( giving her some water ) Here, drink this. Drink lots of water. ( puts the bottle in her hand ) Hold on to this. Take deep breaths. Nice and slow. ( sits her down; produces a Would you like a lolly?
MONICA: What am I, five?
JOE: You're never too old for a lolly. I'm having one.
MONICA: ( a grin ) He pulls out another one.
JOE: Lemon or raspberry?
MONICA: Lemon it is. The two suck on their lollipops for a moment.
JOE: Lemon it is. The two suck on their lollipops for a moment.
MONICA: ( finally ) Ryan's really angry with me.
JOE: I think he's really angry with me too.
MONICA: ( laughs ) It's really not the same thing. ( a moment ) He was really nicer when he drank.
JOE: I'm sorry.
MONICA: Eight years, though. That's quite an That's a lot of those.
JOE: That's a lot of those.
MONICA: A lot of cakes.
JOE: A lot of cakes.
MONICA: And he doesn't smoke?
JOE: And he doesn't smoke?
MONICA: He has to find non-smoker's meetings that used to be almost impossible, you know? It's gotten much better.
JOE: How long have you been married?
MONICA: Nine.nine, yes? Nine years, just You must have been a baby.
JOE: You must have been a baby.
MONICA: Oh yes. Nineteen.just. I'm cold.
JOE: Come here. Joe holds Monica.
MONICA: ( a moment ) That's very nice.
JOE: I like you.
MONICA: I'm so glad. You know, I recognize that passage in your book. The bit about us running into each other in the movie I know you changed it to a bookstore. And the color of my hair. But the moment was exactly the same. The same, you know, dynamic. And almost verbatim, wasn't it?
JOE: I know you changed it to a bookstore. And the color of my hair. But the moment was exactly the same. The same, you know, dynamic. And almost verbatim, wasn't it?
MONICA: I know you changed it to a bookstore. And the color of my hair. But the moment was exactly the same. The same, you know, dynamic. And almost verbatim, wasn't it?
JOE: ( humors her ) Yeah, it was. For a writer nothing's ( thinks a moment ) No, nothing at all.
MONICA: I think it's great that I made an impression at all, you know. Joe regards the open trusting face, is touched by it. Leans in, kisses her lips very lightly. and again. Her arms can't make up her mind, whether to come up around him or not. Finally do.
JOE: Oh for fuck's sake. Nobody uses that I'm sorry.
MONICA: ( horrified ) I'm sorry.
SALLY: ( raging ) There's a goddamn sign on the gate.
MONICA: I'm so sorry.
SALLY: You fucking cow, can't you read?!
MONICA: ( at a loss )
SALLY: How long ago was it?
JOE: Stop being such a bitch, Sal.
MONICA: I'm so sorry.
JOE: It was a mistake. This isn't a plot to do in Otis.
SALLY: Don't be so sure.
JOE: Listen to yourself. Don't worry, it's alright. We'll find What's wrong with you?
SALLY: ( re: Monica ) She left the fucking gate open.
JOE: Well he can't have gone far.
SALLY: Can't have gone far? He's like a greyhound. He could be miles away.
JOE: He'll find his way back.
SALLY: There are fucking coyotes out there.
JOE: ( calming ) Sally, calm down. We're not going to find him any quicker by you being Monica retreats, backs off a step or two.
SALLY: Fuck you.
JOE: Or shitty!! Otis!!
RYAN: How long have you worked for the A long time.
AMERICA: ( shrugs, polite but annoyed ) A long time.
RYAN: So you were here when they were doing the work on the boundary fence?
AMERICA: Oh yes.
RYAN: Did you know the contractor?
AMERICA: Very well.
RYAN: Was it a contractor?
AMERICA: It's the way they do things.
RYAN: To code? Her back is to him. She exchanges a glance with Rosa, and the Spanish equivalent of "who is this wanker?"
AMERICA: You should talk to Mr. Joe. Monica bursts into the room.
MONICA: Ryan, you've got to come! You've got to help me find the dog! I let their dog out. We need to find the dog.
RYAN: You're not serious.
MONICA: I left the gate open and Otis got out! He could get hit by a car!
RYAN: God willing.
MONICA: We have to find the dog, Ryan.
RYAN: ( regards him ) Because we're nice people, and because what goes around comes around. ( desperate ) Because, God help you if something happens to that dog?
MONICA: ( regards him ) Because we're nice people, and because what goes around comes around. ( desperate ) Because, God help you if something happens to that dog?
RYAN: Excuse me?
MONICA: All the ugly phone calls? We're not the only people with a tape recorder, Ryan. They've gone to the canyon, we should go towards the PCH.
PANES: Otis!! Shostakovich identified with the Jew. He felt persecuted, hunted, crushed under the thumb of Stalinist imperialism.
SKYE: Not to mention Andrew Zhdanov. Otis, Andre Zhdanov? How the hell do you know about Andre Zhdanov?
PANES: Andre Zhdanov? How the hell do you know about Andre Zhdanov?
SKYE: Who doesn't know about the infamous composer's conference of 1948 where Zhdanov persecuted the leaders of Soviet Music - Shostakovich, Prokofieve, and I'll tell you who doesn't know, cute girls don't know.
PANES: I'll tell you who doesn't know, cute girls don't know.
SKYE: Do Peter Sellers again.
PANES: ( a la Sellers ) Otis you crazy dog! Otis are you in this God forsaken Canyon? My people are very I just did a movie about Bob Yar, I played Gittle, the Jewish milkmaid who gets shot in the head, and they used Shostakovich's 13th Symphony.
SKYE: I just did a movie about Bob Yar, I played Gittle, the Jewish milkmaid who gets shot in the head, and they used Shostakovich's 13th Symphony.
PANES: Set to the poem of Yetveshenko!
SKYE: Exactly! So I dug it, and I did a lot of Do you really, you really, like Would you, like, marry him?
PANES: Do you really, you really, like Would you, like, marry him?
SKYE: Would you, like, marry him?
PANES: Would you, like, marry him?
SKYE: If he were still alive, maybe.
PANES: How about someone who really really liked Are you asking me to marry you?
SKYE: ( smiling ) Are you asking me to marry you?
PANES: No, I'm just testing to see how deeply perverted and impulsive you are.
SKYE: ( laughing ) Oh good, I'm worse. Are you really Who told you that? No. I'm twenty. ( lops off two years ) EXT. CANYON - CONTINUOUS Sally and Joe have lanterns. Panes and Skye are up ahead. We hear them calling for Otis.
PANES: Oh good, I'm worse. Are you really Who told you that? No. I'm twenty. EXT. CANYON - CONTINUOUS Sally and Joe have lanterns. Panes and Skye are up ahead. We hear them calling for Otis.
SKYE: Who told you that? No. I'm twenty. EXT. CANYON - CONTINUOUS Sally and Joe have lanterns. Panes and Skye are up ahead. We hear them calling for Otis.
SALLY: ( on her heels ) Otis, good boy, come here. Oh my god, oh my god, oh my god.
JOE: ( on her heels ) Otis, good boy, come here. Oh my god, oh my god, oh my god.
SALLY: Otis, good boy, come here. Oh my god, oh my god, oh my god.
JOE: This is a nightmare. We should have kept him upstairs.
SALLY: It was done. When Sophia put the kids to bed, America brought Otis in the room and closed the door. It was done.
JOE: Well someone clearly let him out before Monica opened the gate.
SALLY: Oh fuck you, and fuck Monica while you're at it. But I guess that's what I Jesus, Sally. You are a medical miracle. The only person who's ever taken ecstacy and become angrier.
JOE: Jesus, Sally. You are a medical miracle. The only person who's ever taken ecstacy and become angrier.
SALLY: Yeah, let's talk about that. You seem to be rather an expert. I don't remember in the last five months of counselling your ever mentioning ecstacy or going to rage Rave parties?! That's so typical - you would think it was called rage. Perfect!
JOE: Rave parties?! That's so typical - you would think it was called rage. Perfect!
SALLY: What else don't I know about, Joe? Let's get really clear here.
JOE: Sally, so I took a few pills. I went out dancing. I tried to forget how upset I was about splitting up with you. I haven't lied to you. I told you about the people I've slept with. I just didn't mention the few occasions I took drugs because you're so fucking judgmental I knew I'd never hear the end of it, and you have so little faith and so little trust in me. Sally, we're back, I love you. Trust that. Please let's not do this.
SALLY: Otis! Come! Good boy! Come!
JOE: I'm not sure we understand that word in the same way.
SALLY: I'm not sure we understand that word in the same way.
JOE: You walked out on a five year marriage.
SALLY: You walked out on a five year marriage.
JOE: That hasn't the first fucking thing to do with love. It's whether we can live together. like this! All the time.
SALLY: It's not like this all the time.
JOE: DO I want anyone else? No. Do I want to be with you for the rest of my natural life? I'm trying.
SALLY: And how hard it hit?
JOE: Just stop right there, Sally. We've been through this.
SALLY: You've been through it. That's how you love people. When it's easy for you, when it's convenient for you.
JOE: Sally, first of all, you're talking bullshit. And second.
SALLY: You want to talk about bullshit? Lucy called you three times this week. She's a fucking mess, Joe. Your sister is a fucking mess. She needs you. I talk to her more than you do.
JOE: That is not true.
SALLY: It is true. You know how you love, Joe? You dedicate a book to someone.
JOE: Every novel I've had published in every language I've dedicated to Lucy.
SALLY: Right. And when was the last time you spoke to her? Joe is silent.
JOE: It's a novel.
SALLY: About me!
JOE: Who the fuck do you think you are? The part of Genna is not just about you. It's about every woman I've ever loved in my entire life. Including my mother. The character is also clearly in her early twenties, Sally.
SALLY: What are you saying?
JOE: Hello? Last birthday was?
SALLY: I don't look my age, Joe.
JOE: Sally, I have never considered you for this part because you are too old to play it. And you are out of touch with reality if you think differently.
SALLY: It's a shit novel anyway.
JOE: Well there you go. I let you off the hook. You're one goddamn lucky actress.
SALLY: Not really. I mean your books have always been pop, but this is the shallowest of the bunch. That's what all our friends think, anyway.
JOE: Okay. If we could've, by some miracle, stripped ten years off your face, still couldn't have got the thing made. Because I don't mean anything as a director, and your name doesn't mean fuck all anymore. And the people that can hire you are afraid to, because they think you're phoning it in. That you don't have. Oh Christ, Sally.
SALLY: Who? Who? Who thinks that?
JOE: Your director and your co-star of your current movie. Don't dish if you can't take it, Sally.
SALLY: Mac? Mac says it? Cal? Joe doesn't respond.
JOE: Sally, for Christ's sake.
SALLY: Anyone else?
JOE: This is insanity. Don't push me away.
SALLY: Don't push me away.
JOE: Don't push me away.
SALLY: I had an abortion two weeks ago.
JOE: Don't do this.
SALLY: I found out I was pregnant and it scared the shit out of me.
JOE: ( threatens ) Don't do this!
SALLY: I told you when we met I never wanted children. I don't want kids in my life. We talked about it. You weren't You changed your mind.
JOE: You changed your mind.
SALLY: I wanted you back. Joe slaps her hard across the face.
JOE: What?! You aborted our child?!
SALLY: I'm a monster. Exactly.
JOE: You're not ready.
SALLY: Don't make allowances. I'll never be ready. Some people just shouldn't have children. I'd be a terrible fucking mother, Joe. I did want it for us. But I couldn't do it. I don't really think I can do it.
JOE: I wasn't part of that picture at all, was I? I wasn't part of that decision. Did I occur to you at all? It's a fucking farce. It's a fucking farce. How long did you think you could keep it going. You're amazing. Do you have any idea what you've done to us?
SALLY: I'll never forgive you.
JOE: I'll never forgive you.
SALLY: I know.
JOE: I have no idea who you are. They stand their in silence. Joe is devastated. We hear Skye and Panes up ahead calling for Otis.
CLAIR: Oh my God. Honey??? There's a moment. Mac begins to sob.
JERRY: He's okay, Clair. You wanna give him a little room?
MAC: ( his face against concrete ) Man, I must really be stoned. ( wipes tears from his face with Thanks, buddy.
CLAIR: Mac raises his hand, arrests her from coming nearer.
MAC: I'm fine, babe.
JERRY: Give him a minute, Clair.
MAC: ( humiliated ) ( looks over at Jerry ) Thanks, buddy.
JERRY: Anytime, sport.
MAC: ( wants to say "don't call me Yeah, thanks pal.
CLAIR: ( helpless ) They all stand around watching him. Mac gets up.
MAC: I'm fine, babe. I'm gonna take a little walk. I need a minute. Let's forget it. My life didn't pass in front of my eyes. So, it probably wasn't that close.
JERRY: Probably not.
MAC: ( to Jerry ) So, you've got lifeguard papers, or what?
JUDY: There's a test, you know.
JERRY: ( embarrassed ) Forget it, Judy.
CLAIR: ( still scared ) I'll be fine. Really babe. Give me a The CAMERA stays on Mac as he walks around the side of the house, down the steps through the basement.
MAC: I'll be fine. Really babe. Give me a The CAMERA stays on Mac as he walks around the side of the house, down the steps through the basement.
MAC: ( paces; at himself ) You're okay. Buck up. Come on, be a man. It could happen to anybody. ( tears start again ) If you don't stop, I'm going to punch your face in. ( another moment ) He pulls a towel off a stack and they all fall on the floor.
MAN'S VOICE: Joe, Joe! It's your Dad! Pick up, Gina sets the photo on the desk, leans it up against the wall. Joe and Sally's faces stare out of it.
GINA: ( picks up receiver ) Harry, hi, it's Gina! Gina. Is everything alright? ( a deep intake of breath ) Oh my God. When? He's not here. They're out looking for Otis. The dog, ( tears start down her face ) I love you so much. Lucy's a fighter, she'll make it. Whether she wants to or not. Harry. I'm so sorry. I will. ( writes down the number ) Yes I will. Take care, Harry. Bye. She puts down the phone. Stares into Joe's face, looks up at a photo on the wall that she took of Joe and Lucy.
JUDY: Are you my big brave boy? Are you my brave hero?
JERRY: You're crazy baby. I love you.
JUDY: Are you my big hard hero?
JERRY: Do you want me to save you? Do you want me to save you?
JUDY: Oh yeah.
JERRY: Oh yeah. I'm gonna save you.
JUDY: Oh yeah?
JERRY: Let me heal you, baby.
JUDY: ( mantra ) Oh Jesus oh Jesus oh Jesus. Grunts, groans, a scream, a peel of giggles.
JERRY: Oh yeah.
SOPHIA: .no, no, start again.
CLAIR: I've lost my husband and my beeper. Have either of you seen either of them?
NEW ANGLE: Panes, Skye, Sally and Joe come into the room dogless.
JOE: What is it?
GINA: Let's go upstairs, okay? Joe looks from Gina to the others.
SALLY: ( on the way upstairs ) Is it Otis? Skye and Panes look at the other guests.
SKYE: What happened?
JOE: The suspense is killing me.
GINA: Harry called.
JOE: ( growing dread ) ( there's now way to say it ) Lucy overdosed.
GINA: ( there's now way to say it ) Lucy overdosed.
JOE: ( a long moment ) But she's alright.
GINA: She's in ICU. Joe's legs give way. He sort of sits on the floor.
JOE: ( laughs; shakes his head ) Stupid tart.
GINA: She left a note.
JOE: ( realizes the import; to Gina ) Fuck you. Tears start down Sally's face.
GINA: You need to call your dad.
JOE: Leave us alone right now.
GINA: I've booked you a flight and packed you a bag. You just need to get into a car and Would you leave us alone right now?
SALLY: Would you leave us alone right now?
GINA: I love her too, Joe.
JOE: Alright, good. Thanks for your trouble. So will you leave Sally and me alone right now?
SALLY: ( a shrug; simply ) Everybody hates the messenger. Gina exits.
JOE: ( inconsolable ) I don't want you to go. He wipes tears away that start afresh; his nose is running, he wipes that too.
SALLY: I'll be with you.
JOE: I don't want to go tonight.
SALLY: You don't have to. They sit on the floor. Sally soothing, rocking Joe like a Stupid tart.
JOE: ( bereft ) Stupid tart.
MAC: How's he doing?
SALLY: Not good.
GINA: He's gonna miss his flight.
SALLY: Al the guests are a little stunned.
GINA: Is he not going? I booked a flight.
SALLY: He's not going tonight.
GINA: I told his father he'd be on that flight.
SALLY: Well you could tell him otherwise. It was good of you to be all this help. But he doesn't want to go tonight.
GINA: Jesus, Sally. I'm not the enemy.
SALLY: And you're not the wife.
GINA: It's not a contest.
SALLY: Damn straight.
CAL: Should I go up?
SALLY: I don't think so.
CAL: You want us to stay?
SALLY: Maybe not.
MAC: So much for ecstacy, right? They all laugh a little.
SOPHIA: Let's get the kids.
CLAIR: Oh my God, the sitter.
SALLY: ( laughs ) Oh Clair, you're so. You know. You just put things in perspective.
JOE: ( dials phone, a moment ) Hey, Dad.
SOPHIA: I'm going to be home all weekend, call if you need anything. Sally kisses Cal's cheek.
CAL: Hang in.
SALLY: ( resigned ) Oh perfect!
JERRY: I call that a perfect day.
JUDY: A perfect night.
JERRY: Damn near. And a damn near perfect drug.
JUDY: Hm. We should do it again.
JERRY: Just every once in a blue moon, you know.
JUDY: ( a long moment ) You think we should ask them for their Hm. Do you like fucking out of doors?
JERRY: Hm. Do you like fucking out of doors?
JUDY: Not as a rule.
JERRY: ( a long moment ) They didn't sign their goddamn tax EXT. HOUSE - CONTINUOUS Sally stands at the threshold, watches Cal and Sophia load their kids into the car.
GINA: ( kisses Sally; whispers ) Take good care of it.
SALLY: Count on it.
RYAN: ( appalled ) Jesus Christ, it's a fucking dog!
MONICA: ( regards them ) Don't go in, Ryan.
RYAN: Let's just go home, okay?
MONICA: Let's just go home, okay?
PANES: I'll do it. Panes starts to make some; Skye starts to clean up glasses and ashtrays.
JOE: I'll do it. Panes starts to make some; Skye starts to clean up glasses and ashtrays.
PANES: I'll do it. Panes starts to make some; Skye starts to clean up glasses and ashtrays.
SALLY: You don't need to do that.
SKYE: I don't mind.
SALLY: Relax. You've done enough.
JOE: Can I come in? Sally looks up at the nakedness.
SALLY: HE slips into the tub with her. They lie there facing each
OE: My plane leaves in a few hours.
SALLY: Okay. Do you want me to come with you?
JOE: ( simply ) ( a moment ) Pretty much a disaster, tonight, wasn't I guess.
SALLY: ( a moment ) Pretty much a disaster, tonight, wasn't I guess.
JOE: ( a moment ) Pretty much a disaster, tonight, wasn't I guess.
SALLY: I guess.
JOE: Life gets messy. Ugly messy. But I don't understand you. And I don't think I ever understood Lucy. I don't understand throwing it away. How do you throw all that away? Any of it. I want it all. You guys want guarantees? I want the possibilities. And all kinds of crap comes with that. A lot of bad shit. And I think that's okay with me because, because of the rest of the stuff. All the good shit. All the surprises. It's a fucking miracle when you come down to We'd have had amazing children, you and me. We'd have had a ride. You'd have surprised yourself. I'll never love anybody else, you know.
SALLY: ( a little choked laugh ) Me too.
JOE: That's under lock and key.
SALLY: Me too. Joe reaches out of the tub for gift-wrapped box. He hands it to sally. It's their ritual gift-giving site. Sally opens the gift. Takes out a Calder mobile.
JOE: Happy anniversary.
SALLY: It's a Calder.
JOE: I know.
SALLY: He's my favorite.
JOE: I know. It's for the baby's crib.
SALLY: She hands him a small wooden box. He opens it, takes out a set of keys.
JOE: Oh, Sally Mae. He can't say anymore.
SALLY: I know.
JOE: Will you make love with me?
SALLY: She reaches out with both arms.
