"Z".................WOODY ALLEN: "WASP #1"...............DAN AYKROYD "WASP #2"...............JANE CURTIN "GEN. FORMICA".............DANNY GLOVER "MANDIBLE".............GENE HACKMAN "AZTECA".............JENNIFER LOPEZ "DRUNK SCOUT"............JOHN MAHONEY "WEAVER".............SYLVESTER STALLONE "PRINCESS BALA"............SHARON STONE "QUEEN"..............MERYL STREEP "CARPENTER"............CHRISTOPHER WALKEN We see:
"MANDIBLE".............GENE HACKMAN: "AZTECA".............JENNIFER LOPEZ "DRUNK SCOUT"............JOHN MAHONEY "WEAVER".............SYLVESTER STALLONE "PRINCESS BALA"............SHARON STONE "QUEEN"..............MERYL STREEP "CARPENTER"............CHRISTOPHER WALKEN We see:
"AZTECA".............JENNIFER LOPEZ: "DRUNK SCOUT"............JOHN MAHONEY "WEAVER".............SYLVESTER STALLONE "PRINCESS BALA"............SHARON STONE "QUEEN"..............MERYL STREEP "CARPENTER"............CHRISTOPHER WALKEN We see:
"WEAVER".............SYLVESTER STALLONE: "PRINCESS BALA"............SHARON STONE "QUEEN"..............MERYL STREEP "CARPENTER"............CHRISTOPHER WALKEN We see:
"QUEEN"..............MERYL STREEP: "CARPENTER"............CHRISTOPHER WALKEN We see:
"CARPENTER"............CHRISTOPHER WALKEN: Z ( O.S. ) ( over a dark screen )
Z: I feel.isolated. Different. I've got abandonment issues. My father flew away when I was just a larva. My mother didn't have much time for me.when you have five million siblings, it's difficult to get I feel physically inadequate I've never been able to lift more than ten times my own weight. Sometimes I think I'm just not cut out to be a worker. But I don't have any other options. I was assigned to trade school when I was just a grub. The whole system just.makes me Terrific! You should feel
MOTIVATIONAL COUNSELLOR: ( enthusiastic ) Terrific! You should feel
Z: .I should?
MOTIVATIONAL COUNSELLOR: ( hopping around YES!!! You know, people ask me, "Doctor, why are you always happy?" And I tell them it's mind over matter. I don't mind that I don't matter! Do you get it? Do you get
MOTIVATIONAL COUNSELLOR: ( incredibly "up" ) Z, we're part of the fastest growing species in the whole world!
MOTIVATIONAL COUNSELLOR: Ask me why we're so successful.
Z: Why are we so successful?
MOTIVATIONAL COUNSELLOR: I'm glad you asked me that question!
MOTIVATIONAL COUNSELLOR: What do you see out there?
Z: MOTIVATIONAL COUNSELLOR
MOTIVATIONAL COUNSELLOR: Right! Ants! Millions of creatures, each with his assigned task, all pulling together!
MOTIVATIONAL COUNSELLOR: You see? Being an ant is being able to say, "Hey I'm meaningless, you're meaningless."
Z: But but I've always felt life was about finding meaning.and then sharing it with someone special, someone you love.
MOTIVATIONAL COUNSELLOR: Z.you need help. Whoops! We're gonna have to stop there. Your minute is up!
MOTIVATIONAL COUNSELLOR: Now back to work! We've made progress! Remember let's be best superorganism we can be!
AZTECA: Hello?! Earth to Z! You better snap out of it, or there's gonna be a lot of pissed off ants!
Z: ( snapping out of it ) Sorry Azteca. Here you go, fellas! Fresh dirt! Alley oop! ( looking at the dirt ) Shouldn't we be wearing gloves? I mean this dirt is very.dirty. Doesn't anyone think of hygiene? ( Z's stomach growls ) Boy am I hungry. I'm so hungry I'm seeing double. It looks like there's two million ants in here. When's lunch? Tomorrow, or the day after?
AZTECA: ( sweetly ) Z, old pal. ( shouts ) SHUT UP!!! It's bad enough there's a food shortage without you complaining about it every day.
Z: The squeaky wheel gets the oil.
AZTECA: No, Z. The squeaky wheel gets away, alright? You're a good ant, Z, even though you are a pain in my rear- segment. I don't wanna see anything happen to you. So quit mouthing off, before you get in Thank goodness. Breaktime.
Z: Thank goodness. Breaktime.
AZTECA: ( resigned ) Break's over.
Z: ( getting back to work ) This colony needs another tunnel like a hole in the ground. Why are we even digging this thing?
AZTECA: Who cares, Z. All I know is, we gotta dig. We're not the ones in
GENERAL FORMICA: The workers look up and GROAN. Then they start forming a stairway with their own bodies, linking arms, stepping on each other's shoulders. It's extremely unpleasant work. One ant is a little tardy, and just manages to get in place GENERAL FORMICA, the Pattonesque military leader of the colony, STEPS ON HIS HEAD, using it as the first step as he ascends to the palace, his aide-de-camp Carpenter in tow. As Formica mounts the "stairs" we can hear the workers going, "OUCH! OOF! YIKES!" etc.
STAIRS!: The workers look up and GROAN. Then they start forming a stairway with their own bodies, linking arms, stepping on each other's shoulders. It's extremely unpleasant work. One ant is a little tardy, and just manages to get in place GENERAL FORMICA, the Pattonesque military leader of the colony, STEPS ON HIS HEAD, using it as the first step as he ascends to the palace, his aide-de-camp Carpenter in tow. As Formica mounts the "stairs" we can hear the workers going, "OUCH! OOF! YIKES!" etc.
GENERAL FORMICA: Cut the chit-chat down there! We've spoiled these workers, Carpenter. They've never had it so good, and listen to them always grumbling and complaining.
CARPENTER: .Yes, sir.
GENERAL FORMICA: What have they got to complain about? Three square meals a day.
CARPENTER: Actually, sir, we've cut them down to three roughly rectangular meals a Don't give me statistics, Carpenter. I know what I'm talking about. DOORS!
FORMICA: Don't give me statistics, Carpenter. I know what I'm talking about. DOORS!
FORMICA: ( to guard ant, while Oil that, soldier.
QUEEN: Ah! General Formica.
QUEEN: General, the severe food shortage that faces the colony.pains me. The thought of any of my children going hungry. Who's the cutest widdle worker? You are! Yes, you! Don't forget to brush your teeth! Ship 'er out. What steps are you taking to remedy the situation?
FORMICA: We are launching a major offensive to expand our foraging territory.
QUEEN: Yes, what else?
FORMICA: Please don't worry, your majesty. Leave the worrying to me. As you know, I'm not an ant of half- measures. I don't pussyfoot around. This crisis is my number one priority, and I promise you it's being dealt with swiftly, and
QUEEN: ( to baby ) No snacking between meals! Off you ( to Formica ) Now what were we saying?
FORMICA: ( Oliver North-style ) I do not recollect, your majesty. Will that be all?
QUEEN: Yes, General Formica. Carry on, my good man! I don't know what we would do without you.
CARPENTER: ( sotto ) Princess Bala, sir. Your fiancee.
FORMICA: Princess! You look outstanding. Is there anything I can do for you?
BALA: Well I thought since we're getting married.it might be nice if we.got to know one another.
QUEEN: Bala has always been a hopeless romantic, General.
BALA: It's just that well, I'm honored that you selected me, and everything, I just thought the marriage might go a little more smoothly if we had a conversation?
FORMICA: ( uncomfortable ) ( to Carpenter ) Wasn't she briefed?
QUEEN: ( holding up a baby ) Look, General! A darling baby ( emotionally, to baby ) Don't try to be a hero! Just make sure you come back in one piece! ( handing it off ) ( using the I'll take your suggestion under advisement, Princess. In the
FORMICA: ( using the I'll take your suggestion under advisement, Princess. In the
BALA: General we have to talk sometime!
FORMICA: Very well. Carpenter, is there a convenient time to talk vis-a-vis: Actually, sir, we're ahead of schedule. We have thirty-six seconds available right now.
CARPENTER: Actually, sir, we're ahead of schedule. We have thirty-six seconds available right now.
FORMICA: Outstanding. Princess.?
BALA: So, um.how was your day? What did you do?
FORMICA: ( scouring his mind ) ( that's it! ) I declared war!
BALA: ( sadly ) Oh.and I was afraid we had nothing in common.
CARPENTER: ( under his breath ) Fourteen-fifty hours, sir.
FORMICA: Duty calls!
FORMICA: No squeak. Outstanding!
QUEEN: ( sympathetically ) I felt the same way before I got married. Confused. Scared.
BALA: ( hopefully ) You did?
QUEEN: Yes but I did my duty and sorted out all those messy feelings. The wonderful thing about ant life is that everything is arranged. Even marriage. You're lucky General Formica is a paragon of anthood.
BALA: ( unconvinced ) Yes.he's wonderful.
HANDMAIDEN #1: ( swooning over The General's body segments are ( giggling ) I'd let him order me into battle
HANDMAIDEN #2: ( giggling ) I'd let him order me into battle
HANDMAIDEN #1: Princess? What's wrong?
BALA: Wrong? How could anything be wrong? I'm going to marry General Formica and be a queen and have millions of babies, just like my mom. Do I look fat to you?
HANDMAIDEN #2: ( knowingly, to Pre-wedding jitters.
HANDMAIDEN #1: You just need to blow off some steam. Let's go to the bar at the Royal Club!
BALA: The Club's so someplace different.
HANDMAIDEN #2: There isn't anyplace else Except the worker bar.
BALA: The worker bar! Yes! That's where I want to go!
HANDMAIDEN #1: But we can't there'll be workers there.
Z: We declared war again? Are you scared?
WEAVER: ( shrugs ) I'll be back.
APHIDS: ( as they're slapped Ouch! Ouch!
BARTENDER: Two aphid beers.
Z: ( as Bartender leaves ) Did you see that? How he gave you the beers, not me? I'm telling you, he's got something against workers.
WEAVER: I don't know what you're talking about, Z.
Z: Come on everybody dumps on us workers. You soldiers get all the glory. Plus you get to go out into the world, meet interesting insects, and kill them.
WEAVER: Yeah, but you get to spend all day with those fabulous worker babes.
Z: Weaver, they're career girls. They're obsessed with digging. No, I'll probably never meet the girl for me.
WEAVER: Who said there was a girl for you? I was talking about a girl for me. Don't you want your aphid beer?
Z: I can't help it. I have a thing about drinking from the anus of another creature. Call me crazy.
WEAVER: Z, we've known each other a long time, right?
Z: Of course. You were born two seconds after me.
WEAVER: And all the time I've known you, you've been grumping and groaning. You should quit making waves. Go with the flow.
Z: Weaver, I'm an insect, not a liquid.
DRUNK SCOUT: you? No, ya goddam larvas! But I .Mosquitos n' caterpillars n' beetles all livin' in peace, stuffin their guts with food.No rules, no regulations.you can be your own ant there. It's Insectopia! Insectopia!
Z: Hey, Weaver, listen!
DRUNK SCOUT: I was cut off from my unit found it by mistake It changed my life! You see ya follow the great yellow egg, and you come to the land of red and white
SOLDIERS: You've had enough for one night! Come on, Gramps, before you get in
Z: ( excited ) Hey, did you hear what he said?!
WEAVER: Poor guy's had one too many scouting
HANDMAIDEN #2: We shouldn't be doing this it isn't proper!
BALA: I'm the Princess, aren't I?
HANDMAIDEN #2: Of course
BALA: And do Princesses do improper things?
HANDMAIDEN #2: Of course not
BALA: Then if I go to the worker bar, it isn't improper. Anyway, don't worry. No one will recognize us in our
BALA: I'm just a common worker, cooling off after a rough day!
BARKER: ( on loudspeaker ) Okay, folks. It's six-fifteen, and that means it's time to dance.
WEAVER: ( draining his beer ) Time to cut a rug, Z!
Z: I'm not in the mood. Even when they're off work, they follow orders.
WEAVER: Well, you just sit here and be a
BARKER: ( southern twang ) And a left-right-quarterstep-back step-halfstep a left-right- a left-right-quarterstep-backstep
BALA: I'm going to ask one of these mindless, primitive worker-types to dance with me!
HANDMAIDEN #1: But General Formica would be furious!
BALA: ( enjoying the idea ) I know.
Z: What a bunch of losers. Mindless zombies capitulating to an oppressive Wanna dance?
BALA: Wanna dance?
Z: ( regaining suavosity ) Just let me finish my beer.
Z: So uh how come I haven't seen you around here before?
BALA: ( covering up ) I work in the palace, I don't get out The palace, hunh? I bet those royals really live it up. Of course they're all a little, you know, from ( shocked )
Z: The palace, hunh? I bet those royals really live it up. Of course they're all a little, you know, from
BALA: ( shocked )
Z: Now, let's see, I it's been a while since I I think you
Z: Here, I'll lead.
BALA: Are you sure this is a real dance?
Z: Well, actually, uh I'm sort of making it up
BALA: ( surprised ) Why should everyone dance the same way? It's as exciting as watching fungus grow.
Z: Why should everyone dance the same way? It's as exciting as watching fungus grow.
BALA: You're right!
Z: ( surprised ) You you think I'm right?
BALA: Why can't I just do whatever I want to do? Why can't I just go wild?!
SOLDIER: Hey! Watch your step, You watch yours, soldier, or my worker friend will beat you up!
BALA: You watch yours, soldier, or my worker friend will beat you up!
Z: ( terrified ) Oh, that's okay, I'll let him off this time. ( whispering to Bala ) Are you crazy? This guy's built like a pebble! ( ineptly trying to You know they do great prosthetic antennas nowadays
BALA: Aren't you gonna stand up for
SOLDIER: How come you don't dance like the rest of us?
Z: Because because I'm an
SOLDIER #2: An individual? Never heard of it.
MANDIBLE: You look like a worker to me.
WEAVER: Hey, lay off my little buddy!
HANDMAIDEN #1: Princess Bala! Princess Bala!
Z: Princess? You're a
HANDMAIDEN #2: Uh oh. Goodbye! Gotta run!
BALA: Uh oh. Goodbye! Gotta run!
Z: Wait! When can I see you again?
BALA: Let me think. Hmmnn. Never. Bye!
Z: Wait! Princess! Wait!
WEAVER: Get real, Z! She just dropped the scarf by accident!
Z: Are you kidding? There were sparks between us! This scarf is a sign!
WEAVER: It's a sign that you're crazy! Do you know what the penalty for impersonating a soldier is?
Z: What's gonna go wrong?! I take your place for the royal inspection. Bala comes strolling down the line, she sees me bingo! Love is rekindled, and she takes me up to the palace for a little. tea and crumpets. and you take your place again, and go march around to your heart's content!
Z: You have to help me. Please, Weaver. Think of all the things I've done for I can't think of any.
WEAVER: ( thinks ) I can't think of any.
Z: ( pause ) Well I'm gonna start doing things for Will you introduce me to some worker You bet! They'll really go for a sensitive guy like you!
WEAVER: Will you introduce me to some worker You bet! They'll really go for a sensitive guy like you!
Z: You bet! They'll really go for a sensitive guy like you!
WEAVER: Maybe I'll get lucky. You know, Z, I wouldn't do this for anyone but you.
WEAVER: Wear this.
Z: ( overjoyed ) You're a real buddy.
WEAVER: ( sourly ) Yeah, I know.
Z: What do I do?
WEAVER: Don't tell anyone you're a worker. Follow that column over there. And come right back after the inspection!
Z: ( overjoyed ) Thanks! I owe you!
Z: Any of you guys know when the Princess will show up? She's kind of a personal friend.
LOUD VOICE: MARTIAL MUSIC sounds, and we hear thousands of ant feet as they snap to attention. Z imitates the soldiers awkwardly. GENERAL FORMICA struts to the middle 6f the screen, slapping his thigh with a swagger stick ( the antenna of some unfortunate insect )
FORMICA: First of all, let me make one thing clear. Nobody ever won a battle by thinking for himself. All this "thinking" stuff is a load of crap. If the almighty had wanted you boys to think, he wouldn't have given you huge mandibles and a brain so small you'd misplace it if it wasn't trapped inside your head.
Z: ( slapping his thigh ) "Trapped inside your head" that's a good one
Z: Geez tough room.
FORMICA: ( striding back and We ants survive as a species because we do what we're told. We survive because we work together, as one, we get the job done, we do whatever it takes to persevere! ( dramatic pause ) Hell, we're not an army of ants.we're one giant ant, with giant fists, and giant jaws!
Z: ( to the soldier ant Lays it on a little thick, doesn't he? If you ask me, he's one giant Now I've heard a lot of scuttlebutt about a food shortage. Well you boys are gonna be taken care of. But in the meantime we're gonna eat the enemy for breakfast, we are gonna eat the enemy for lunch, and we are gonna eat the enemy for dinner!
FORMICA: Now I've heard a lot of scuttlebutt about a food shortage. Well you boys are gonna be taken care of. But in the meantime we're gonna eat the enemy for breakfast, we are gonna eat the enemy for lunch, and we are gonna eat the enemy for dinner!
Z: Geez, and I forgot my toothbrush.
FORMICA: ( reflective moment ) Dammit, I'm proud to be an ant. ( he looks out at his And I know each and every one of you boys will do your duty. Dismissed. ( clapping ) Bravo! Bring on the Princess!
Z: ( clapping ) Bravo! Bring on the Princess!
COLONEL: Stow the gab there, soldier! Let's move 'em out!
COLONEL: Finally, as Z's part of the army marches past the end of the reviewing stand, he sees her, looking bored, standing next to the Queen, who is giving the royal wave.
Z: ( waving ) Princess! Princess Bala! Hey! It's me! Z! I've got your scarf! ( peering out ) Who is that idiot?
BALA: ( peering out ) Who is that idiot?
QUEEN: Darling, you must encourage the troops wave!
Z: ( excited ) Excuse me, guys That's my date. Well, it's been fun. Have a great
Z: Hey! Wait! You new, kid?
BARBATUS: You new, kid?
Z: I just joined up. But I'm quitting! I got a trial membership!
BARBATUS: Trial membership? Kid, when you join this ant's army, you're in for the full hitch.
Z: Wait a minute, there's been a mistake! I've got to get back to the
BARBATUS: Are you crazy, kid? They shoot
BARBATUS: You just stick by old Barbatus. He'll watch out for you. Whatsamatter, kid? Leave a girl Yeah. Well no. She's kind of playing hard to get. As a matter of fact, she's playing completely So, what's on the schedule? A brisk walk? a foraging expedition?
Z: Yeah. Well no. She's kind of playing hard to get. As a matter of fact, she's playing completely So, what's on the schedule? A brisk walk? a foraging expedition?
BARBATUS: No we're going to attack the Attack? But I hate attacking! It's so hostile!
Z: ( alarmed ) Attack? But I hate attacking! It's so hostile!
ANT SOLDIERS: ( to the tune of "When We ants go marching one by one, hurrah, hurrah! We slaughter termites just for fun, Hurrah! So these termites, they're little, shy, retiring insects?
Z: So these termites, they're little, shy, retiring insects?
BARBATUS: ( grim smile ) No such luck. Those dirty terms are five times bigger than us, and they shoot acid from their foreheads!
SOLDIER ANTS: We ants go marching two by two, hurrah! Hurrah! We'll all be dead before we're through, hurrah! Hurrah!
Z: Well, what exactly does our platoon do? Serve beverages? Process Our platoon has the best assignment of all. We're the first into battle!
BARBATUS: Our platoon has the best assignment of all. We're the first into battle!
ANT SOLDIERS: We ants are marching three by three, hurrah! Hurrah! Dead ants is what we soon will be, hurrah! Hurrah!
Z: So we're going back for more armor, right? I mean, these guys are from outer space, how are we supposed to beat them?!
BARBATUS: Superior numbers, kid!
COLONEL: The front line of ants starts rushing towards the termite colony.Z is swept along.
ATTAAAAAAAAACK!!!: The front line of ants starts rushing towards the termite colony.Z is swept along.
BARBATUS: Over the TOOOOOOOOOOOOO-OP!!! It's too damn quiet.
BARBATUS: It's too damn quiet.
BARBATUS: Don't be scared, kid. Barbatus's got yer back.
Z: ( petrified ) Maybe they went out for the evening. Let's leave them a message and head ( ignoring him ) Light it up!
COLONEL: ( ignoring him ) Light it up!
COLONEL: They're here!!!
BARBATUS: ( to Z ) Keep your head down!
Z: ( looking around ) Guys! Guys! It isn't too late for all of us to just talk this over! Wait! Please! Acid makes me come out in spots! Could I just say I have always had the greatest respect for your species? I mean, eating wood why didn't I think of that?
Z: Wait! Please! Acid makes me come out in spots! Could I just say I have always had the greatest respect for your species? I mean, eating wood why didn't I think of that?
I: The termite rears, getting ready to melt Z, when OOF! he's knocked backwards by.
Z: BARBATUS! You you saved my life!
BARBATUS: Don't get all sappy about it!
COLONEL: I love the smell of formic acid in the morning.
Z: Look out!
Z: Excuse me. I seem to be lost, and I was wondering if you could give me I'll let myself out.
Z: ( backing away ) I'll let myself out.
Z: ( backing away ) Shoo! Torro! Torro!
ANT OFFICER: ( points at Z ) He's killed their Queen!
Z: Hey, I'm sorry, it was a mistake
ANT OFFICER: We can see that the termite warriors, deprived of their leader, are suddenly confused and directionless, easy prey for the ants.
VICTORY!!!: We can see that the termite warriors, deprived of their leader, are suddenly confused and directionless, easy prey for the ants.
Z: ( facetious ) This is terrific! Let's exact crippling war reparations! Let's set up a puppet government!
ANT OFFICER: Let's slaughter them all!
ANT OFFICER: The tongue comes down again, smashing some more ants, whose bodies are slurped up by the tongue.the ants scatter, but to no avail, as the tongue comes smashing down again and Z heads into a side corridor as the tongue smashes down again, barely missing him! Z retreats along the corridor as the tongue searches for him, across the tunnel from intersecting access-tunnels, getting closer and closer to Z, dragging more and more screaming ants and struggling termites. ..Then the tongue disappears. Silence. Z wipes his brow. And we hear a thunderous SNIFFING noise as the anteater searches for more prey. and the tongue starts rumbling down the corridor right towards Z, the tip squirming as it ricochets along the walls! Z gets up and runs, the tongue lapping towards him, reminiscent of the stone sphere that nearly crushed Indiana Jones in Raiders of the Lost Ark! The walls disintegrate under the pressure of the tongue, which gets closer to .and just misses him as Z tumbles out of the stump and down to the ground.Z sits there, dazed, as we see the huge form of the anteater withdraw its tongue and, with a final contented burp, shuffle off into the distance.
INCOMING!: The tongue comes down again, smashing some more ants, whose bodies are slurped up by the tongue.the ants scatter, but to no avail, as the tongue comes smashing down again and Z heads into a side corridor as the tongue smashes down again, barely missing him! Z retreats along the corridor as the tongue searches for him, across the tunnel from intersecting access-tunnels, getting closer and closer to Z, dragging more and more screaming ants and struggling termites. ..Then the tongue disappears. Silence. Z wipes his brow. And we hear a thunderous SNIFFING noise as the anteater searches for more prey. and the tongue starts rumbling down the corridor right towards Z, the tip squirming as it ricochets along the walls! Z gets up and runs, the tongue lapping towards him, reminiscent of the stone sphere that nearly crushed Indiana Jones in Raiders of the Lost Ark! The walls disintegrate under the pressure of the tongue, which gets closer to .and just misses him as Z tumbles out of the stump and down to the ground.Z sits there, dazed, as we see the huge form of the anteater withdraw its tongue and, with a final contented burp, shuffle off into the distance.
Z: ( hopeful )
Z: ( shocked ) Be honest, kid am I hurt bad?
BARBATUS: Be honest, kid am I hurt bad?
Z: No, no, you're.lookin' good. You've got good color in your cheeks.
BARBATUS: No I can see it in your eyes. I'm a goner. It's alright, Z. In this ant's army, a soldier's life ain't worth a sack of fungus. I can't feel my legs.
Z: Hang in there, buddy! You can make it! Just take deep breaths, I'll try and find your body it's gotta be around here somewhere!
BARBATUS: ( gasping ) I wonder.what.was it all.for.
Z: Barbatus, hang on Barbatus!!
BARBATUS: Don't make my mistake, kid. don't.be a grunt.your whole
AZTECA: Hey, slow it down, big boy. You're making the rest of us look bad.How come I haven't seen you around here I'm new.I was born yesterday.
WEAVER: ( covering ) I'm new.I was born yesterday.
AZTECA: Tell me about it.
WEAVER: Nobody told me digging was so much fun! You pick up the dirt, you move it, you pick it up again, you move it again lots of repetitions, you exercise the forceps, and the Mmm, yes, I see what you mean.
AZTECA: ( ogling him ) Mmm, yes, I see what you mean.
FOREMAN: What's the holdup here?!
WEAVER: Sorry, sir I was just having a little chat with my friend
FOREMAN: ( yelling at Weaver ) Who said you could have a chat? You're not a chatter, you're a digger! So shut up and dig!
AZTECA: Leave him alone! He's new.
FOREMAN: You too? Well just for that, you lose your day's rations! Now get back to work!
AZTECA: ( surprised at herself ) I don't know what came over me, talking back like that. I must be going crazy.
WEAVER: Sorry I got you in trouble. But listen, you can share my rations.
AZTECA: ( flirting ) Are you asking me out to dinner?
WEAVER: ( blushing ) No I mean yes I mean if you don't have other plans.
AZTECA: I'll make myself available.Listen, better watch out with the backtalk. I don't know want you to end up like the guy who used to work next to me. I'm afraid he got.
GUARD ANT: Look! They're back! The army's back! Alert the colony!
EXCITED ANTS: The army's returned! Our brave boys are back! ( etc. )
AZTECA: It looks like only one soldier made it back!
WEAVER: ( to himself ) Poor Z I should never have let you
Z: It was horrible.a massacre, a massacre upon a massacre. First we massacred them, then they massacred us, then it was halftime. I've never seen such violence, such bloodthirstiness, such bad manners.I'm the only one that made
FORMICA: ONE TO NOTHING! WE WIN!
Z: No you you don't understand!
FORMICA: Damn, I'm proud of you, boy. I wish I had a hundred ants of your caliber. The world would tremble. Now, time for some R and R. You're invited to the royal victory party!
Z: Royal victory party? Will.will Princess Bala be there?
FORMICA: Of course. The entire royal family will be there to honor you.
Z: ( thinks )
AZTECA: Wait a minute, that's no soldier that's Z!
WEAVER: Z is following Formica away from the cheering crowd.
FORMICA: Son, you're an ant after my own heart. A warrior. An ant that looks death right in the face and laughs.
Z: Well, I generally just make belittling comments and snicker behind death's back. So, tell me, fellow war-monger.do you think Princess Bala likes men in uniform?
FORMICA: Well she better she's engaged to one. Me!
Z: Engaged? As in you're getting So.you two are in love?
FORMICA: So.you two are in love?
Z: So.you two are in love?
FORMICA: In love? I'm just a plain old soldier at heart. I'll tell you what I love the field blood death orders.and the company of other
Z: Wow, what a spread you know, there's a food shortage in the rest of the colony.
FORMICA: Yes, and do you know food shortage?
Z: .Not enough food?
FORMICA: we soldiers go out there, and fight, and bleed, and die for the colony, the namby-pamby workers live it up back home.
Z: Well I, I don't think "living it up" is the right term how about "working themselves to death"?
FORMICA: I tell you son, sometimes, at night, I see myself in battle, fighting a horrible, faceless enemy, with the future of our whole species at stake. And always, the dream ends with each of us plunging his sword into the other's heart.
Z: ( spooked ) Oh, hey, that's great, I think I see an old war buddy over there, it's been fun chatting. Good luck with the hallucinations. ( telling a joke ) What do you call it when 10,000 workers are killed in a tunnel cave- ( a beat ) Who cares? They're workers!
OFFICER: ( telling a joke ) What do you call it when 10,000 workers are killed in a tunnel cave- ( a beat ) Who cares? They're workers!
Z: But.don't you think the worker class is the very foundation of the I mean, uh, without them, who would we stand on?
BALA: You're the hero of the recent termite campaign, aren't you?
Z: Well, if single-handedly vanquishing the enemy and slaughtering a whole nestful of termites makes someone a hero, yes I am.
Z: ( feigning nonchalance ) And you are.?
BALA: I'm Princess Bala.
Z: Ah, yes. Well, charmed, I'm sure. So, Princess, have you ever danced with a hero?
BALA: ( deflated ) Oh.oh well then, one more won't
Z: ( deflated ) Oh.oh well then, one more won't
Z: Just warming up. All these parties are so marvellously They should be. But there's something funny about that soldier.
QUEEN: All these parties are so marvellously They should be. But there's something funny about that soldier.
FORMICA: They should be. But there's something funny about that soldier.
FORMICA: ( glowering ) May I cut in?
Z: ( intimidated ) Oh, of course
BALA: ( pulling Z back ) No, General. I'm dancing with the war hero.
Z: ( trying to placate Uh, sorry, General, I.I've always had this animal magnetism, it You dance.
BALA: You dance.
Z: No weirdly.You remind me of
BALA: No weirdly.You remind me of
BALA: He was swarthy.primitive.
BALA: He was a worker. I danced with him at a worker's bar just the other day. I'm not shocking you, am I?
Z: ( proudly ) No.as a matter of fact.
BALA: ( shocked )
Z: Gee, uh, could you say it a little louder, I think there are some ants in the next colony who didn't hear I CAN'T DANCE WITH A WORKER! That's not what you said the other Quiet sshhh!!
BALA: I CAN'T DANCE WITH A WORKER! That's not what you said the other Quiet sshhh!!
Z: ( offended ) That's not what you said the other ( now she's panicked ) Quiet sshhh!!
BALA: ( now she's panicked ) Quiet sshhh!!
Z: ( digging it in ) At the worker bar! You were pretty hot to trot then!
BALA: SSHH!!! SSHH!!!
FORMICA: ( furious ) What's this? A worker has been masquerading as a war hero?!
Z: Well it wasn't a masquerade, really, it was more what I'd call a clever ARREST HIM! Can't we all settle this like adults we're not larvae anymore
FORMICA: ARREST HIM! Can't we all settle this like adults we're not larvae anymore
ARREST HIM!: Can't we all settle this like adults we're not larvae anymore
Z: Can't we all settle this like adults we're not larvae anymore
QUEEN: Oh my god! He's taking her hostage!
Z: No I'm not I mean nobody move! Or the Princess gets it!
Z: ( to Formica ) Stay back, you lunatic! Do you think I don't know how to use this?
Z: The officers rush for.and Z, with Bala in tow, falls backwards into an opening marked, "GARBAGE".
PRINCESS: This is thoroughly unacceptable!
Z: You're telling me.
BALA: I'm coming! I'm coming!
BALA: I'm going! I'm going'
BALA: How should
Z: How should
BALA: I order you to find out where we are!
Z: Alright, alright, I'll try to get directions from one of the locals.
Z: Excuse me, I Pardon me And they call them social insects.
BALA: Climb up that tree and get a better
BALA: I've been kidnapped by the village Who's the bigger idiot the idiot who gets kidnapped, or the idiot who lets herself get kidnapped by the How dare you speak to me like that? I'm the Princess!
Z: Who's the bigger idiot the idiot who gets kidnapped, or the idiot who lets herself get kidnapped by the How dare you speak to me like that? I'm the Princess!
BALA: How dare you speak to me like that? I'm the Princess!
Z: Theoretically, yes. But is the monarchical hierarchy applicable without the underlying social structure to support it?
BALA: Of course! It defines society! To deny the precept is to say that order is an arbitrary distinction applied by the society itself!
Z: But can there be a society composed of just two ants?
BALA: No! There's no such thing as "just two ants." You never see just two ants you see a million ants!
Z: Look around, sweetheart.
BALA: Well I guess that makes us even.
Z: Well I guess that makes us even.
BALA: Ha! Don't make me laugh. You're crazy about me! That's why you lied and cheated to get near me!
Z: Oh come on, after me the swarthy, earthy, sensual worker!
BALA: ( repulsed ) I was slumming it! I danced with you because you were the most pathetic specimen in the place!
Z: Is that the same standard you used to choose General Formica?
BALA: idiot would. .choose who she wanted to marry?
BALA: Now, worker, you shall take me back to the colony, and have your head cut off and stuck on a sharp pole!
Z: Well, that's an appealing offer, but.considering the options. You go back. Me, I'm going to that's just a fairy tale!
BALA: that's just a fairy tale!
Z: Yeah, well I have it on a reliable that it exists. Now you follow the yellow egg. That direction.
BALA: Worker! Come back here now!
Z: I've got a
BALA: That's not a name! That's just a
BALA: ( clears her throat ) ( no response.louder Oh WORKER? Where are you? ( getting desperate ) Z? Z? Wait for me!!!
AZTECA: I tell ya, I'm gettin' sick of bein' yelled at.
WORKER #1: What do you want, we're just workers.
WEAVER: You know, you're not just workers you can be whatever you want to be! Look at Z! He started as a worker then he became a soldier!
AZTECA: That's right! He slaughtered hundreds of termites single-handedly!
WORKER #2: I heard about this guy. He crashed a party at the palace. Then he took a hike with one of the royal babes! And when they tried to stop him, he just looked at a couple'a guards, and they burst into You're nuts, how could a worker do all that?
WEAVER: Well, because he's more than a worker.he's a.what did he call it, Azteca.
AZTECA: No an
WEAVER: No an
WORKER #2: Well, it's.someone with his own point of view.someone who does what he wants, not whatever he's told to Someone who follows his heart!
WEAVER: Well, it's.someone with his own point of view.someone who does what he wants, not whatever he's told to Someone who follows his heart!
AZTECA: ( eyes lit up, Someone who follows his heart!
WEAVER: ( taking Azteca's hand ) Right.because every ant's important!
WORKER #2: ( scoffs ) But that would mean I'm important.
WORKER #1: I'm outta here, this sounds like trouble to me.
WEAVER: We can
Z!: Weaver and Azteca hold hands. More ants are gathering around, dropping their tools.
BALA: Water.water oh, you already said My skin's dry, my exoskeleton is cracking.I wish I'd never met you, you ruined my life.
Z: Water.water oh, you already said My skin's dry, my exoskeleton is cracking.I wish I'd never met you, you ruined my life.
BALA: ( walking along ) My skin's dry, my exoskeleton is cracking.I wish I'd never met you, you ruined my life.
Z: perfectly happy until I met you alright, I was miserable, but I was happily miserable.
BALA: Look out!
BALA: We're going to die!
Z: Come on it's gone! What are the chances of that happening again?
Z: Well I'll be.
BALA: Why didn't I listen to my mother .why'd I have to go looking for trouble? Any ant would have given their left legs to be in my position.what's wrong with me?
Z: Want a list?
BALA: ( urgent ) Wait, I hear something!
Z: EXT. LAKE - DAY A LAKE ( a puddle ) stretches before them. It is, in fact, the overflow of a drinking-fountain whose drain is jammed.as Z and Bala run to the lake, water dribbles from the fountain and into one edge of the pool ( to the ants, it's a waterfall ). Bala and Z run to the edge of the water and start slurping. They smile at each other, until they remember that they don't like each other.
BALA: EXT. LAKE - DAY A LAKE ( a puddle ) stretches before them. It is, in fact, the overflow of a drinking-fountain whose drain is jammed.as Z and Bala run to the lake, water dribbles from the fountain and into one edge of the pool ( to the ants, it's a waterfall ). Bala and Z run to the edge of the water and start slurping. They smile at each other, until they remember that they don't like each other.
WATER!!!: EXT. LAKE - DAY A LAKE ( a puddle ) stretches before them. It is, in fact, the overflow of a drinking-fountain whose drain is jammed.as Z and Bala run to the lake, water dribbles from the fountain and into one edge of the pool ( to the ants, it's a waterfall ). Bala and Z run to the edge of the water and start slurping. They smile at each other, until they remember that they don't like each other.
Z: This lake is huge! And so close to the colony! Think of the vacation Cut me down a soft leaf so I can take a nap.
BALA: Cut me down a soft leaf so I can take a nap.
Z: Listen, "Princess", you can't order me around. Out here, you're not the boss anymore out here, you're
BALA: ( annoyed ) Out here I'm just what?
Z: ( through the water ) ( hands on hips ) Stop fooling around in there.
BALA: ( hands on hips ) Stop fooling around in there.
BALA: Let me go!!!
BALA: ( chants to herself ) I'm going to be rescued soon. I'm going to be rescued soon. I'm going to be rescued soon.
Z: Princess, has it ever occurred to you that they're not going to rescue you?
BALA: General Formica won't let me die out here. I'm his fiancee.
Z: Look. How many other Princesses are Five thousand three hundred and ninety no. About five thousand four hundred by now.
BALA: Five thousand three hundred and ninety no. About five thousand four hundred by now.
Z: And only you can become a Queen?
BALA: Well.no, but
Z: So what makes you so special?
BALA: ( hesitates ) Well.I am the oldest.
BALA: By three seconds.
BALA: ( to herself ) You're right. There are as many Princesses.as there are blades of
FORMICA: Dammit, this tunnel is priority A-1! We can't afford any delays on this I've never seen anything like it, General, they're they're.well, look!
CARPENTER: I've never seen anything like it, General, they're they're.well, look!
WORKER ANTS: Z! Z! Z! Z! Where do ya think you're going? Get back to work!
FOREMAN: ( yelling at him ) Where do ya think you're going? Get back to work!
WORKER #1: Buzz off, I'm important!
FORMICA: Notice the big one, holding hands with the female?
CARPENTER: Well, uh, who notices workers, sir?
FORMICA: ( calculating ) No one should have to. Have him brought to me.
FORMICA: So this Z.he fancies himself an Yeah.I mean.well.I don't know, really, sir.
WEAVER: Yeah.I mean.well.I don't know, really, sir.
FORMICA: ( patronizing ) Well now you haven't fallen for this silly idea of individuality, have Oh, no, sir!
WEAVER: Oh, no, sir!
FORMICA: Good. You're a good soldier.
WEAVER: Thank you, sir.
FORMICA: So tell me. Where's Z?
WEAVER: I.I have no idea, sir.
FORMICA: Okay, son.
FORMICA: We know what makes an ant colony strong, don't we? We know that no ant can be an individual. No single ant matters, right?
WEAVER: ( enthusiastically ) That's correct, sir!
FORMICA: ( points at a guard ) Not that one. ( another guard ) Or that one.
WEAVER: No, sir!
FORMICA: ( calmly, with Or that one? Her life doesn't matter, does it?
AZTECA: Don't tell that tightass anything, Wait! Just let her go! Z's long gone anyway, following some golden egg to Insectopia! You'll never catch him!
WEAVER: Wait! Just let her go! Z's long gone anyway, following some golden egg to Insectopia! You'll never catch him!
FORMICA: Insectopia, hunh?.See why individuality is so dangerous? It can always be used against you. If this sissy here wants to dig, he'll dig. Send them both back to the tunnel project. Double their
FORMICA: What do we have on this "Insectopia"?
CARPENTER: Scattered reports, sir. Rumors. Nothing reliable.
FORMICA: Desperate times call for desperate measures. Get me Ant Team Six.
CARPENTER: ( frightened ) Ant Team Six.
BALA: ( looking hopeless ) I swear, we've passed this blade of grass three times.
BALA: Face it, Z, we're lost! We must have walked halfway across the world by now! How did I get into this mess.
Z: ( too shy to look at Come on.tell me there wasn't just a little.something between us that first night at the bar. The night we ( sadly ) What difference does it make.we're both going to starve to death, or get squished, or set on fire.
BALA: ( sadly ) What difference does it make.we're both going to starve to death, or get squished, or set on fire.
Z: .The land of red and white.
Z: We've found it! all this food'
BALA: ( amazed ) You were right.you were right! ( smiling happily ) Z, it's beautiful!
Z: Let's dig in!
Z: There's - there's some kind of force
MALE WASP: ( to Z and Bala ) You down there, haven't you ever been to a picnic?
Z: FEMALE WASP ( to Male Wasp )
FEMALE WASP: ( to Male Wasp ) Well I really don't know who they are.
Z: We're ants!
MALE WASP: Poopsie, we know some ants, don't we? Are you related to the Fifth Avenue Darling, do you have to talk to any insect from off the street?
FEMALE WASP: Darling, do you have to talk to any insect from off the street?
MALE WASP: Just being friendly, Poopsie.
BALA: Hello? I'm not just "any insect". My mother is the Queen. I'm Princess Bala!
MALE WASP: ( under his breath ) They're Eurotrash, dear.
MALE WASP: ( to Z ) A little piece of advice, sport bob and weave! Bob and weave!
BALA: What do you mean?
MALE WASP: Well like my father used to say there's no such thing as a free meal!
THE WASPS: Excuse me I'll have some potato salad thank-you! don't mind if I do! After you! ( etc. )
Z: I sort of imagined Insectopia a little differently
BALA: MALE WASP ( shaking her )
MALE WASP: ( shaking her ) Muffy! Muffy! Wake up!
MALE WASP: ( heartbroken )
WHYYYYYYYYYYYYY????: But Z, also looking up, has no time to commiserate.
Z: Bala, look out!!
BALA: The shoe rises, as the person wearing it steps away.and we see that Bala is stuck in one of the ridges of the waffle- soled sneaker, adhering to a big piece of bubblegum!
BALA: Z! Help me!!!
Z: ( mournfully ) I'll never see her again.
BALA: Z!!! Get me out of heeeeere!
Z: ( thinks ) These things always come in twos.
Z: Take me to your leader!
Z: The sneaker lifts off into the air, with Z holding on for dear life to the lace, and getting further and further away from Bala as he's drawn to a vertiginous height.the landscape can be seen rolling and pitching crazily in the For a moment, the sneaker seems to pause in the air.then it descends again, in a stomach-churning, roller-coaster free- fall as the sneaker on which Bala is stuck rises up again.
Z: Bala! Come back here!
BALA: Z!!!!!!! I'm stuck!
Z: ( Tarzan whoop )
BALA: Z! You're here!
Z: ( ruefully ) Yeah. I'm here.
BALA: ( emotional ) Z.if we don't make it.I just want you to know..
Z: ( touched )
BALA: The sneaker rises, and seems ready to fall again.but instead it just hovers there. ( The person wearing it is balancing on one leg and about to scrape off the bubblegum with a penny ).
Z: We're safe.
Z: Who the
MAJOR MANDIBLE: And don't come back, you
MANDIBLE: Talk to me.
COMMANDO ANT: Z and the Princess were here, sir. Signs of a struggle.
MANDIBLE: Let's get a read on that feremone Get the sniffer!
TRACKER ANT: Bala.find Bala.
TRACKER ANT: ( as he's swivelled )
MANDIBLE: Z you dirt-digging, fancy-dancing, wisecracking, royalty-grabbing, rebel
SCUM!: ( yelling into the
MANDIBLE: Let's MOVE! GO, people! GO! GO!
BALA: Come on, Z.
Z: Forget it. You go ahead, I give up. I.I don't know what I was thinking. There's only one thing worse than an ant who goes around mindlessly following orders, and that's an ant who's too dumb to go around mindlessly following orders.
Z: ( defeated ) There's only one thing worse than an ant who goes around mindlessly following orders, and that's an ant who's too dumb to go around mindlessly following orders.
FLY: What's with the bummer attitude?
BUTTERFLY: Yeah nobody stresses out in Did you say.
BALA: Did you say.
Z: ( joining Bala )
BALA: ( happily ) Z, we made it!
FLY: ( alighting on the C'mon in! The nectar's fine!
Z: .into a bottle-cap filled with lemonade, which he alternately drinks and swims through. Down at the bottlecap, Z is drying himself off. Then he sees, emerging from behind a lemon peel, a gigantic TERMITE.
Z: ( terrified )
AAAAAGH!!!: Surprisingly, the termite seems equally terrified.
FLY: ( to Z ) Hey, take it easy! There's nothin' to be afraid of!
Z: Yeah, well, I make it a practice not to trust anyone who shoots acid out of their forehead.
CRICKET: Dude, here in Insectopia, we don't judge people by how many arms and legs we've got.
FLY: Yeah, back home, they called me a fruitfly. But here, I'm known Anyway, big Gus is mellow.
CRICKET: Anyway, big Gus is mellow.
Z: ( taking his hand,
Z: So.you never did tell me.what made you come out to the worker bar that night?
BALA: Just looking for fun, adventure, trouble, I guess.
Z: Well, "trouble" is my middle name. Actually, my middle name is .985, but I don't tell people. Hey, Bala, I.I actually have something of yours.you left it at the bar that
Z: Sorry, it's been through a war, not to mention everything else.
BALA: You held onto this all that time?
Z: Well, I.I know it's a little strange, but.I thought it might come in handy if I.needed a scarf Well, to be honest, I just liked having it.
BEETLE: The moment is wrecked. Z looks up. A chubby beetle stands there with Gus the termite.
BEETLE: Wanna bring back dessert? There's a thirty foot long blimp in the next can, made completely of chocolate!
Z: ( annoyed ) Sure. I wasn't busy or anything.
Z: Great timing, guys. Ever wonder why they call you "pests"?
TRACKER ANT: One of the commandoes puts his hand over the tracker's mouth to shut him up. Mandible communicates with his troops by pulling down his one functional antenna and gruffly whispering into it, as though it were one of those commando headsets. His troops do likewise.
MANDIBLE: Talk to me.
COMMANDO #1: I've got a read on the Princess but target Z isn't accounted for.
MANDIBLE: Let's move in.
CRICKET: What if, like.we're just these tiny little things, and we're just like part of this whole other huge universe, that's like, so big we don't even know it exists?
LADYBUG: Man.that's so deep.
MANDIBLE: EVERYBODY DOWN!
EVERYBODY DOWN!: The cricket gets up to confront Mandible, but Mandible cold cocks him with a right to the jaw. The other insects, too surprised to fight, just do as they're told.
MANDIBLE: Alright, you hippy scum! Make one move and I'll exterminate you!
BALA: Stop! You don't understand!
MANDIBLE: I don't have to understand, Missy I've got orders. Now where's Z?
FLY: Man, your girl is Oh, Bala? I guess she's okay, you know, for a princess. I mean, I usually date queens, or you know, empresses, because sometimes the lesser nobility are too much in awe of my smouldering sensuality. Please stop me if I'm making you feel
Z: ( overdoing it ) Oh, Bala? I guess she's okay, you know, for a princess. I mean, I usually date queens, or you know, empresses, because sometimes the lesser nobility are too much in awe of my smouldering sensuality. Please stop me if I'm making you feel
Z: What's the matter? This place is as cheery as a Roach Motel at check-out
LADYBUG: Bala's been kidnapped! Some flying ants took her back to the colony!
Z: She's been kidnapped?! But I can't live without her!
Z: ( determined ) I'm going back. I've got to get her. Who'll come with me?
Z: ( surprised ) I know what it's like to lose someone.I keep hearing the sound of Muffy's flapping wings.so I'll take
MALE WASP: I know what it's like to lose someone.I keep hearing the sound of Muffy's flapping wings.so I'll take
Z: Let's go, pal!
FLY: Geez. I feel like a real stinkbug.
Z: Wow.I never saw things this way.
Z: Things look so close together from up here.there's the desert.and the it's not far from the colony at all.
MALE WASP: Sorry. Turbulence.
FORMICA: Princess Bala. Good. Where's Z?
BALA: He's.he's dead. You don't have to look for him anymore. He was eaten by a praying It's a shame he died prematurely.I was hoping to kill him myself.
FORMICA: ( regretfully ) It's a shame he died prematurely.I was hoping to kill him myself.
BALA: Well you'll never be able to hurt him where he is now. I miss him already.
FORMICA: ( surprised ) You miss him? Why?
BALA: ( angry ) Because.because he's twice the ant that you are. I could never go through with marrying you. I'm I'm an individual, and when I get married, it'll be to someone I choose.
FORMICA: ( shaking his head ) Princess Bala, I'm just a simple old soldier, and the ways of the feminine mind are a little too complex for me. But one thing I do know is, there are more Princesses where you came from. I just hope they're not all like you. In the meantime, maybe we can arrange for you to see Z again after all.
MALE WASP: Good luck, Z. For a wingless insect, you're alright by me.
Z: Thanks, Chip.
Z: ( to himself ) How am I going to get in? The place is crawling with soldiers!
SOLDIER ANT: You there! Worker!
Z: Don't bite! I surrender!
SOLDIER ANT: What are you doing out here! All workers are to remain inside the colony, by orders of General Formica!
Z: ( heading inside ) Well.if you insist.
QUEEN: Very impressive, General.
MANDIBLE: Wave that flag, you maggot!
FORMICA: Is there anything wrong, your majesty?
QUEEN: It's just.How I miss Bala. I wish she were here for this special moment.
FORMICA: ( falsely supportive ) She is, your majesty. She is.
Z: Geez, this place really empties out in August. Where is everybody?
TRACKER ANT: ( sniffing ) Z! Z! I smell Z!
Z: You "smell" me? Well look, I I've been out in the wilderness for a while, and
Z: ( getting it ) Hey, wait, you're.you're one of those pheremone sniffers, aren't you? Maybe you can help me.I'm looking for a friend of mine, Princess Bala.
TRACKER ANT: ( enthusiastic ) Bala! Yeahyeahyeahyeahyeah! Find Bala! Yeahyeahyeahyeah!
Z: Just remember, I met her first.
TRACKER ANT: Bala's through there?
Z: Bala's through there?
TRACKER ANT: Great. More digging. This is why I left in the first place.
Z: Great. More digging. This is why I left in the first place.
Z: Z unties Bala and undoes her gag.
BALA: Z! You came back!
Z: Why do they have you tied up here?
BALA: There's something going on, Z
BALA: They're having a ceremony to open the
Z: Bala, that that lake we found I think the tunnel's right underneath Formica's going to flood the colony!!! That's what he meant when said there were too many ants!
BALA: Oh no.
BALA: Z! what are you doing?
Z: I know it's crazy, but I can't just leave. Don't argue with me. If I've learned anything, it's that the problems of two people don't add up to a hill of ants in this world. Or beans. Something like that. Anyway, I've got to warn the others.
Z: Head for the surface, Bala. If I don't make it, well.we'll always have Insectopia.
BALA: ( following him ) Z!!! Wait for me!
FORMICA: Your majesty, I'm afraid matters of state keep me from attending the But General this tunnel is your baby! You're sure you can't stay ?
QUEEN: But General this tunnel is your baby! You're sure you can't stay ?
FORMICA: 'Fraid not, your majesty. Goodbye, your majesty.
QUEEN: Very well, General I know you all work and no play!
FORMICA: Alright, let's move out!
QUEEN: In the name of the colony, I declare this tunnel open!
Z: and then pull back to see Queen cut the ribbon she looks up and sees
QUEEN: Z calls out to the crowd.
BALA: Z calls out to the crowd.
Z: Listen up! We've all got to get out of here! This place is going to
WORKER #1: Are you
Z: You've got to believe me!
WORKER #2: Oh yeah? What makes you so special, Mr. Know-It-All?
Z: I'm Z.
WORKER #3: You're Z? Gimme a break! Z's ten milimeters tall!
WORKER #4: and he can kill termites with his bare hands! You're just some scrawny worker with a mental problem!
Z: WORKER #1
WORKER #1: No you're not!
WEAVER: Weaver steps out of the crowd.
Z: Weaver runs up to Z and hugs him, starting to cry.
WORKERS: says! [etc].
WEAVER: Z.I'm so sorry! I
Z: Don't worry about it, pal.
QUEEN: ( distastefully ) Oh.it's that social-climbing worker again what does he want?
Z: ( in response ) To save you all! Now we've got to go!
MANDIBLE: ( talking into his Let 'er rip!
AZTECA: WORKER #1
WORKER #1: He's right!!!
Z: LET'S MOVE IT!
QUEEN: You there! Stop! I say!
AZTECA: There's no way out!
QUEEN: We're all going to drown!!!
BALA: Z.what can we do?
Z: The workers turn to look at him questioningly.
Z: We've got to dig a trench around us!
WORKER #1: Uh.we don't dig any more. We're Yeah. We're too important to dig. You taught us that, Z. You hate Yeah, but I hate drowning more! Now You heard the ant DIG!!!
WORKER #2: Yeah. We're too important to dig. You taught us that, Z. You hate Yeah, but I hate drowning more! Now You heard the ant DIG!!!
Z: ( at his wits end ) Yeah, but I hate drowning more! Now You heard the ant DIG!!!
WEAVER: You heard the ant DIG!!!
Z: That's it! Pass the dirt back to the center! Go on!
Z: Your highness.time to get your hands dirty!
Z: We need to form a scaffolding around this mound let's DO IT!
Z: The ants start to scale the scaffolding, up towards the top of the chamber.it's a swarming mass of ants, hauling each other up, giving each other legs up, climbing ever and ever higher towards the top. Where they start to dig through the very ceiling. .as, at the bottom of the mound, Z starts to organize the hauling away of the Queen, as though she were a big cargo Z slaps the Queen on the butt, and she's winched away on a cable composed entirely of ants linked arm in arm like those plastic toy monkeys.
Z: Okay boys take her up!
WORKER: He did it! Z! Z! Z! Z! Z!
FORMICA: Z. I should have known. All that work, all that preparation, come to nothing. All because of one stinking
FORMICA: ALRIGHT. WHICH ONE OF YOU IS Z?
FORMICA: WHAT ARE YOU, DEAF? I ASKED YOU, WHERE'S Z?
WHERE'S Z?: Formica laughs, shaking his head.
FORMICA: Folks, you may have survived that flood, but there's no way you're gonna escape from me. I'll make you a deal. Hand over the rebel leader Z, and you survive.
FORMICA: But if you don't hand him over, you're all going to die, each and every single."individual" one of
FORMICA: What shall it be, workers? Have it your way.
FORMICA: Have it your way.
Z: Z stands there, shivering with fear.
Z: .I'm Z.
WEAVER: Z turns, astonished, to see Weaver, still and unwavering, bravely risking his life for his friend. Then, AZTECA also steps forward.
AZTECA: Next, Bala comes forward.
BALA: More and more ants step forward.
WORKERS: I'm Z! I'm Z! I'm Z and so is my brother! I've been Z for weeks now!
QUEEN: ( regally ) We are Z.
ALL: I am Z! I am Z! I am Z!
FORMICA: The army swells forward on all sides, pushing the workers towards the swirling water. Some workers surround the Queen to protect her. All seems lost, when THE FLY from Insectopia alights on the rim of the horizon.
ATTACK!: The army swells forward on all sides, pushing the workers towards the swirling water. Some workers surround the Queen to protect her. All seems lost, when THE FLY from Insectopia alights on the rim of the horizon.
FLY: Hey, guys!
WASP: It's them!
WASP: Are these hooligans giving you trouble, Z?
FLY: Say the word, Z, and we kick their
FORMICA: What are you doing?! ATTACK!! Come on, you yellow-bellies! Don't just stand there, Carpenter! Make an example of yourself!
CARPENTER: Uh, actually, we
CHARGES Z!: Formica runs so quickly and with such force that his helmet blows off his head. Z's eyes get big, he stumbles backwards, slipping, and Formica goes flying over him, toward the whirlpool behind. He scrabbles at the edge of the water, and then tumbles over. For a moment, it looks as if he's gone.
FORMICA: Formica runs so quickly and with such force that his helmet blows off his head. Z's eyes get big, he stumbles backwards, slipping, and Formica goes flying over him, toward the whirlpool behind. He scrabbles at the edge of the water, and then tumbles over. For a moment, it looks as if he's gone.
AHHHHHHH!!: Formica runs so quickly and with such force that his helmet blows off his head. Z's eyes get big, he stumbles backwards, slipping, and Formica goes flying over him, toward the whirlpool behind. He scrabbles at the edge of the water, and then tumbles over. For a moment, it looks as if he's gone.
FORMICA: Please.I.I can't swim.Help me. I thought you said that the life of one ant doesn't matter.
Z: I thought you said that the life of one ant doesn't matter.
FORMICA: I guess it does.to the ant. Sir, if it's any consolation, I still think you're completely worthless as an individual.
CARPENTER: Sir, if it's any consolation, I still think you're completely worthless as an individual.
Z: So, uh, that's pretty much it. Just your basic "simple worker overthrows the government and winds up with the princess" kind of a story. You know: there was the big parade and everything.
Z: And me, I guess you could say that I lived happily ever after.
Z: I mean, I've got the whole package, right? A great life, a beautiful wife, and a few kids.
BALA: WE PULL BACK TO REVEAL INT. Z'S HOUSE - DAY Z and Bala stand in the midst of their living room, up to their knees in THOUSANDS OF CHILD ANTS. The children cover every horizontal surface. They run around, cry, laugh, and tease each other. Z looks around the room, looks back at us, and shrugs.
Z: Well, so nothing's perfect. But you know? I wouldn't change a thing.
THE END: Writers : Todd Alcott Chris Weitz Paul Weitz
